FRIDAYMAY 29
Senior-AlumniDance
UNION9:00
LITTLE THEATER 
A SCRAP OF PAPER 
Wed.-Thur.-Fri.
VOL. XXV, No. 31.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 26, 1931.
COMMENCEMENT BALL WILL BE HELD IN MAIN FOYER OF FINE ARTS SCHOOL, MON. EVE., JUNE 8
3i>: Krushinski Brothers 
Orchestra to Play For 
Dance
ADMISSION TO BE $1.25
Last Dance of Year Open 
For Undergraduates 
and Alumni
The Commencement Ball, the 
last dance o the year, will he held 
Monday evening, June 8, in the 
foyer of the Fine Arts Building. 
Dancing will begin at 9 oclock 
and continue until 1. This will he 
the last chance for the seniors to 
meet as a group of Carnegie stu
dents.
The music will be furnished by 
the Six Krushinski Brothers' or
chestra, which is very popular on 
the campus. It .furnished music 
during the Spring Carnival. The 
Commencement Ball is open to the 
entire student body of the day and 
night schools, as well as to the 
alumni. The tickets will sell for 
$1.25 and can be purchased at the 
Y office or at the door tin* eve
ning of the ball. As usual, the 
dance will be informal.
Dahlen Ritchey ft> the chairman 
in charge of the dance. Mr. 
Ritchey is a senior in the depart 
ment of Architecture, member of 
Kappa Sigma Social fraternity, 
Dragon, Scarab, Tan Sigma Delta, 
and Student Council. He is as 
siste'd by Virginia Page, member 
of Student Council, Woman's 
Scholarship Committee, and the 
Prorfi Committee; William Bryant, 
former president of Dragon and 
Tan Beta Pi and a member of Sig
ma Nu social fraternity and Stu
dent Council, as well as chairman 
of the intcrfratcrnity formal and 
" seiiior ball; andi Howard -Eytli 
(Continued on Page Four)
BACCALAUREATE TO BE 
HELD SUNDAY, JUNE 7
William H. Boddy, D.D., to 
Be Speaker At 
Services
The Baccalaureate service will be 
held Sunday, June 7, in the Car
negie Music hall. This service is 
held each year the Sunday evening 
before commencement for seniors, 
their friends, and the faculty. This 
year the speaker will be the Rev. 
William H. Boddy, D.D., pastor of 
the First Presbyterian Church, Chi
cago.
Men graduates will meet in the 
Music-hall between 7:30 and 7:45 
p. m. Woincn graduates will as
semble in the Green Room of the 
balcony in flic foyer.
Commencement exercises will be 
at Syria Mosque the following 
Tucsday morning, June 9, at 10:30. 
The seniors.arc to assemble at 10 
oclock for robing. The com
mencement exercises .will be held 
oclock for robing. All members of 
the graduating class must be pres
ent at the exercises unless/ excused 
in advance by the director of their 
college. All those absent without 
excuses will not receive degrees. 
The speaker at' the exercises will 
be the Hon. Alanson Bigelow 
Houghton, former Ambassador to 
.Germany and to Great Britain.
NINE MEN OBTAIN 
LOCAL FELLOWSHIPS
Nine research fejlows in mining 
and metallurgy were recentty an
nounced for the year 1931-32. The 
fellows are supported by the Alin
ing and Metallurgical Advisory 
Boards, United States Bureau of 
Mines, and the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. The men appoint
ed are to carry on research in 
mining and metallurgy in co-opera
tion with the Bureau of Mines and 
the members of the Advisory board.
The mining fellows appointed arc:
James B. Clelland, B. S. Chemis
try, Grove City College, 1931.
Walter H. Kember, B. S. Chem. 
Engr., State College of Wash., 1931.
Clarence D. Krcutz, B. A., Chem., 
University of Denver, 1931.
S. A. Shrader, B. S., Chemistry, 
West Virginia Wesleyan College, 
1931.
Robert C. Smith, Jr., B. S. Chem. 
Engr., Lehigh University, 1931.
Herbert S. Stricklcr, B. S., Chem., 
Carnegie Inst, of Tech., 1930.
The metallurgical fellows are:
John M. Hodge, B. S., Chem. 
Engr., Purdue University, 192S, 
M. S., Chem. Engr., Purdue Uniyersitj, 1931.
John R. Low, Jr., B. S. Chem. 
Engr., Purdue University, 1931.
David L; McBride, A. B., Chem, istry, Monmouth College, 1931,
Senior Booklets Are
Available At Y
Those who ordered Senior 
booklets may obtain them at the 
Y office, May 28 and 29, from 
11:30 to 1:30, and from 4:30 to 
5:30.
A few extra booklets have 
been received and unless or
dered separately from Imogcnc 
Schory, the first come will be 
first served.
ACTIVITY KEYS TO 
ARRIVE THIS WEEK
The shipment of activities keys 
will probably arrive this week, ac
cording to an announcement made 
by the Key Committee of the Stu
dent Council. Shipment has been 
delayed for several weeks, and it 
is hoped by the committee that the 
keys will be distributed before the 
end of the Week.
Band members who arc to re
ceive their keys arc asked to see 
one of the managers as soon as in
formation is released concerning 
their arrival. The other organiza
tions will distribute the keys 
through their managers or by 
means of a meeting.
Tartan staff members arc the 
only ones who have received, their 
keys to date.
FORTY-TWO SENIORS 
RECEIVE POSITIONS
Following is a list of members of 
the senior class who have received 
positions, together with the names 
of the companies1 who have given 
positions: Charles Iv. Carter, Jo
seph E. Chamberlain, Whitney E. 
Devitt, Michael C. Reeves* Wilmer 
G. Scybotli, Robert T. Woodruff, 
C. Willard Bryant, Mauricc L. Hil
ler, Rex C. Scanor, Burnham W. 
King, Raymond Ii. Buckley, and 
John B. McClure, General .Electric 
Company.
Elmer B. Burger, John M. Ed
wards, and Albert C. Redding, Car
negie Steel Company.
Winchester M. Andrews, Clarence 
E. Guignon, and J. Koltcr Ziegler, 
A. C. Spark Plug Company.'-
Joe H. Hcrbst and Hugh J.Tsherwood, Proctor and Gamble Distrib
uting Company.
Thomas E. Hopkins, Firestone 
Tireand Rubber Company.
Harry D. Morris, Gulf Research 
Laboratories.
Paul L. Schreiber. KenWcl- Sport
ing Goods Company. ,
Donald P. Kane, Union Switch 
and Signal Company.
Walter R. Lovering, Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing 
Company.
Wilmon W. Ware, Philadelphia 
Electric Company.
John B. Rhodes, American Sheet 
and Tinplate Company.
Francis' A. Ray,- Jones and Laughlin Steel Company.
William S. Lcwin, Surface Com
bustion Company.
John Wright, Rieck-Mcjunkin 
Dairy Company..
John E. Barnes, Charles FI. 
Barnes, Contractor.
Marion D. Klocko, New YorkState Highway Department.
George T. Etheridge, Geo. V. 
Myers and Sons.
Harold D. Gabelman; Modern 
Engineering Company.
(Continued on Page Four)
Department Heads 
Plan Reception For 
Seniors And Parents
A letter' has recently been sent by 
the heads of the various departments 
of Carnegie inviting the seniors, their 
parents and guests to attend a de
partmental reception on Tuesday, 
June 9 from 3 to 5 in the afternoon. 
Each department is planning its re
ception separately, and the locations 
of these arc as follows:
In Engineering hall these depart
ments will receive at the rooms 
noted: Chemical Engineering in 118, 
Civil Engineering in 7, Commercial 
Engineering in 121, Mining and 
Metallurgy in 65, Physics in 204, 
and Mathematics in 201. These de
partments will receive in Machinery 
hall: Mechanical Engineering in 103 
and Electrical Engineering in 104.
The seniors of Margaret Morrison 
will find the members of their faculty 
in the Faculty Parlor on the first 
floor of Margaret- Morrison College.
In the College of Fine Arts will 
be the department of Drama in 108, 
the department of Music in 160, the 
department of Architecture in 225, 
the department of Painting and 
Decorating in 301, and the department 
of Sculpturing in the Sculpturing 
studio.
The faculty of the College of In
dustries will receive in rooms 101 
and 111 for the department of 
Building Construction, rooms 105 and 
107 for the department of Works 
Management, room 136, for the de
partment of Printing, and room 243-C 
for the department of Industrial 
Education.
All members of the senior class 
arc urged to attend the receptions 
since this will probably be the last 
opportunity .for association with the 
members of the faculty before gradu
ation. The departmental heads arc 
desirous of having the reception 
serve the dual purpose of providing 
the opportunity of congratulations to 
the seniors and to permit the par
ents and guests- to see that part of 
the college in which the graduates 
have done their major work!
Scholarship Group
Chooses Officers
The newly elected, officers of 
Womens Scholarship Organization 
arc: Ruth Brooks, president; Fran
ces Timms, and Hu Ida Bricrly, vice 
presidents; Mary McKeon, secre
tary; and Margaret Seibert, treas
urer. The folloAving new members, 
presidents or representatives ,.of 
Womens, organization's on the 
campus, have been admitted: Mar
garet MorrisonNancy Sloan, Tar
tan and Puppet; Floy Sample, Tri
publications; Mary Hauser, Alpha 
Chi Al.dia; Dorothy Carey, Guild; 
Janet McClelland, Y. W. C. A.; 
Lois McGregor, Senate; Kathryn 
McKinney, Dormitory. Council; Gcnvieve Rose, Gwens; Martha Slick, 
Social Work Club; Mabel Hover, 
Sccreta'rial Club; Francisl Brown, 
Science Club; Jane Croylc, senior 
class; Marion Me Nary, junior class; 
Jean Ritzel, sophomore class^ Col
lege of Fine ArtsMartha . Burry, 
Sigma Alpha Iota; Ruth Meade, 
sophomore t'clas's; Maxine Picarski, 
junior class; Olivette Hartzfield, Tri 
Gamma; Ruth Francis, Beta Pi; 
Dorothy Auten, Beta Tau Lambda; 
Elizabeth Cannon, Intersorority 
Council.
The pers'onnel will not be com
pleted until the remaining clubs 
have held their elections.
The Departmental Clubs of M. 
M. C. C. held an election of officers 
with the folloAving 1 results: The
Secretarial Club elected these mem
bers for the year 1931-32: Presi
dent, Mabel Hover; vice president, 
Jean Shirk; secretary, Mary Mc
Keon; treasurer, Esther Pctrick; 
social chairman, Elizabeth Lilley.
The new officers pf the Costume 
Economics Club for next year are: 
(Continued on Page Two)
Time Worn Advice Still Holds
Good For Class of 1931
(Editors NoteFor those who 
were not so fortunate as to hear 
Dr. Watkins speech to the seniors 
at the Margaret Morrison farewell 
assembly, excerpts of it are here 
printed.
(Since the present world in 
which the class of 1931 will find 
themselves thrust is in no mood 
for those of only lukewarm tem
perament and ability, and since it 
may discourage even the most am
bitious, Dr. Watkins selected the 
following points to help us hit the 
high spots till times become bet
ter. Seems to us that theyre pret
ty good points, no matter what 
the times, though the Jast of them 
was exclusive of the talkcd-about 
sex.)
"Dont Pose: It wont do you 
any good, and youll lose a lot of 
fun out of life. Nowadays the 
aAreragc college graduate is as im
pervious to shock as a billet of 
steel.
Cultivate Illusions: Illusions be
long to youth, and when you be
gin to lose them, along with your 
teeth and your hair, it is some
thing to be regretted. Children 
have illusions, and it might be wise 
to remember that as long as they 
believe in Santa Claus theyll get 
presents! Illusions are a great lu
bricant; they enable you to get 
along smoothly.
Be Open to Conviction: Also
be patient with these people who 
have- not yet managed to come 
around to your enlightened mode 
of thinking. *
Have Some Sort of Ideal to 
Follow: 1 give you this advice,
even though ideals arc popularly 
supposed to have gone out. But 
as time goes on it bccomcs more 
and more difficult for an individual 
if lie has not,somc sort of pattern 
to go by. When you start out to 
live it is a good deal like starting 
out to write. If you wish to be 
skilful you will have to follow 
some sort of copy book to begin 
with, and to keep the perfection 
attained, to constantly refer to 
this pattern.
Make Every Attempt Not to 
Offend: (By this I do not mean 
(Continued on Page Four)
Professors Tell Students How To
Get Good Grades On Final Exams
All Agree That the Best Time to Study For a 
Final is During the Entire 
Semester
"Final -Examinationstwo- terrify
ing, fearful, breath-taking words 
which, like a bugle call over a quiet 
camp, will send some 2,000 students 
into battle tomorrow. Are you wor
ried about what method to use in 
preparing for these examinations? 
Some of 3'our friends ma3r say to 
sleep, some say cram, while others 
advise a . long walk or a theater. 
Probably the following counsel -of a 
few personages about the campus 
may help you:
Dr. Sclioen:
The best time to prepare for a 
final'examination is at the beginning 
of the semester. But if the prepara
tion  is - to be for an immediate ex
amination, the most advisable method 
would be to go through the material 
which has been dealt with in frag
ments through the semester and ob
tain an idea of it as a whole. Then 
from this general conception thc#'high 
spots should be selected which will 
in turn suggest the details. Cram
ming means stuffing oneself with 
words, and the questions-on the 
examination may or may hot touch 
the memorized words.
"On the other hand, if the stu
dent learns ideas, words will suggest 
themselves and the student will be 
free. of the eccentricities of the in
structor. An examination is a bat
tle of wits between the student and 
the instructor with the author of the 
textbook as - the stake. If thc^ stu
dent obtains the ideas in the book, 
he is read}' for any question that 
might be asked.
"Concerning going to the- ' theater 
the night before, it is ccrtain that 
this will, no.t supply the ideas for the 
eaxmination. But to study in a con
dition of fatigue is futile. I should 
say that a pleasant walk would be 
vastly more beneficial.
Professor- Clccton:
If you have studied your work 
regularly, review it carcfullj'. If not 
(Continued on Page Four)
Nu Delta Alpha 
Will Offer New 
Scholarship Prize
Short Course Students 
Eligible For Annual 
Cash Prize
A short course scholarship award, 
to be known as the Nu Delta Alpha 
honofary award,' will be presented 
each year beginning February 1, 
1932, by the Nu Delta Alpha honor
ary short course fraternity. The 
award will consist of a cash prize 
of twenty-five dollars, accompanied 
by a certificate of award with the 
winners name engraved thereon.
To be eligible for the award, con
testants must have been enrolled 
for a period of two or more years 
as a regular short course student 
in any of the four colleges, and 
must have completed a minimum 
of 144 units of school work at the 
expiration of 'three consecutive 
school semesters. They must be 
enrolled as regular short course 
students at the time of the award. 
Contestants will be judged on 
scholarship record, character, leader
ship and activity on the campus.
Nu Delta Alpha, at the end of 
each semester, will select the names 
of those candidates eligible for 
consideration by reason of charac
ter qualifications and campus ac
tivities,' and lipon these the school 
Registrar will give scholastic rat
ings. At the., expiration of the 
third semester, all such records 
and information will be presented 
to the school authorities,. and with 
their assistance the winner will be 
selected.
Nu Delta Alpha is giving the 
award to foster higher scholastic 
standing, . and to encourage anfl 
promote active participation of stu
dents in the welfare of the insti
tute.
HONORARIES HOLD 
SPRING INITIATIONS
Theta Tau
Tlieta Tau, national engineering 
fraternity, held its formal initiation 
Sunday, May 17 at a banquet in' the 
Ruskin Apartments. Professor Dan
iels, honorary member and faculty 
adviser of Theta T au, was the 
speaker of the evening. Professor 
Daniels is head of the Department 
of Civil Engineering, and an in
structor in Hydraulics and Mate
rials. Recently Professor Daniels 
gave a lecti.re course on Cement 
that received considerable attention.
The following pledges were in
itiated: Melvin L. Jones, Harry P. 
Miller, Jr., Arch R. Mattison, I. 
Herbert Lundgreu, Harold F. Neff, 
Robert R. Smith, Wilfred R. Uffelman, Walter B. Wizton, Henry C. 
Weston, and Harry F. Zinsser.
Scalp and Blade
Four new men were initiated in
to Scalp and Blade, Buffalo honor
ary, on Sunday afternoon, May 17. 
The ceremonies were held in the 
faculty club room and were follow
ed by a banquet.
The new members arc Frank G. 
Lcuthner, member of Kappa Delta 
Rlio social fraternity; Theodore W. 
Stuhlmiller, pledge to Phi Kappa 
PSi; Franklyn J. Jergc of Delta 
Upsilon, and Matthew R. Barcel
ona pledge to Sigma Phi Epsilon.
The organization was fortunate 
in having Mr. B. F. Wertman of 
Buffalo, traveling secretary of Scalp 
and Blade present. He assisted the 
newly- elected4 officers of the local 
chapter in the initiation ceremony.
The members are looking for
ward to June Day in Buffalo.
(Continued on Page Four)
Evelina Palmieri 
To Give Piano 
Recital May 31
Miss Scanlon Will Direct 
Childrens Class in 
Piano Recital
The Department of Music will 
present Evelina Palmieri in a piano 
recital Sunday, May 31, at 8:15 p. 
m. in the Little Theater, College of 
Fine Arts. The following evening, 
June 1, the Department will present 
a miscellaneous recital.Miss Palmifcris 
recital program will be as follows:
Fantasia. Op. 78__________________Schubert
Mollo moderato c cantabileAndanteMenuettoAllegrettoSonato. Op. 2, No. 2--------------IBeethoTcnAllegro vivace 
Largo, appassionato Scherzo 
RondoIntermezzo, Op. 117, No. 1__1-----Brahms
Etude, -Op. 25, No. 1___:___!_______ChopinNocturne, Op. 27, No. 2-------------------Chopin
No cards of admission will be re
quired.
The childrens piano class in the 
College of Fine Arts Music Depart
ment, conducted for experimental 
purposes, will give a recital Tuesday 
afternoon at 4:30 oclock in room 
150 of. the College. An invitation to 
attend is extended to. faculty mem
bers and juniors and seniors major
ing in piano orr public school music. 
Mary B. Scanlon is the director in 
charge of this group.
ORGANIZATIONS ELECT 
OFFICERS FOR 1931-32
Pi Tau Sigma, the national Me
chanical Engineering honorary, has 
decided to give bronze kc}rs to the 
eleven men -who graduate this year, 
as a reward for their earnest ef
forts in the development of the 
fraternity?
The results of the election of 
officers for the. school year of 
1931-1932 were s follows: Presi
dent, A. E. Criqui; vice presidcnty 
Miles Kinley; secretary, I. J. 
Karassik; treasurer, Paul Ziegler; 
corresponding secretary, Howard 
Sprenklc.
It is the object of the organiza
tion to foster a closer relationship 
between the students and the in
structors in the department of 
Mechanical Engineering, and to as
sist in all departmental activities. 
It is still a very young organiza
tion, having been installed just' a 
year ago, but gives promise of fine 
work to come.
Cwens
Cwens. sophomore womens hon
orary, elected its officers for next 
year at its last meeting. _ Gene
vieve Rose, who is enrolled in the 
Nursing Course and is a member 
of 'the Tartan staff, the Margaret 
Morrison Senate and the Womens 
Athletic Association board, was 
elected president. Rosemary Sax-, 
ton of the Music departmnt was 
elected vice president. Miss Sax
ton will have charge of formal ini
tiation next year. Alice Hcnzi of 
the . Secretarial department was 
chosen sccrctar}1-. Alice Thomp
son, who is following the Nursing 
Course, will be treasurer next year, 
and Charlotte Rothrock of the 
Drama department, social chairs 
man. Jane Croylc, Cwen president 
two years ago and president of 
the 1932 senior class at Margaret 
Morrison, was elected sponsor. 
Miss Croyle is a member of the 
Social Work department.
The organization held its formal 
initiation in the French room of 
the '. Schenley Hotel last Saturday 
night.
Sufficient Number Of 
Tickets Available For 
A Scrap Of Paper
-Contrary to a notice given in the 
last issue of the Tartan, there will 
be plenty, of tickets available for 
the play, A Scrap of Paper, 
which will soon be presented by 
the Drama Department. Perform
ances arc scheduled; for the nights 
of May 28, 29, 30, and for Friday 
and Saturday afternoons, May 29 
and 30. The farce, written by the 
French dramatist, Victorien Sardou, 
has bpen newly translated and 
adapated by Miss Phyllis Jackson, 
a graduate studenis, in the depart
ment. Miss Jackson is directing, 
the production as well, in prepara
tion for receiving her masters de
gree.
A Scrap of Paper was presented 
first at the Gymnase in Paris in 
1860 under the title Lcs Pattes de 
Mouchc, the name - given it by 
Sardou. Sardou is considered one 
of the undisputed leaders of French 
dramatic art on a par with Alex
andre Dumas. He was an excellent 
master of ridicule, a weapon which 
he used to expose the inconsist
encies of society. His works show 
fine insight into history as well.
The following week-end, the 
freshman class in the department 
have parts in the fantasy Die 
Vcrsunkene Glockc, or The 
Sunken - Bell, written - by Gerhart 
Hauptmann, one of the greatest of 
modern German dramatists. The 
Sunken Bell is one of a group of 
dramatic fairy talcs. It may be. 
said to belong to the third period 
in the development of Hauptmanns 
genius. His earlier works show the 
influence of Zola, Ibsen and Tolstoi 
a spirit of revolt against social 
conditions and artistic ideals of a 
military and capitalistic state. Here 
his characters arc people. in action, 
who walk, talk, and act as in every 
day life or at least Seem to do so 
by an art that hides art. Up to 
1892, Hauptmann might have seemed 
morbidly ethical in tragedy. Then 
came a period in which lie showed 
himself capable of painting delight
ful pastels of humorous character. 
Presently he appeared in 1894 in 
still another character as an ex
treme idealist, dealing no longer 
with vice, hunger, and mental decay, 
but with dreams, fantasies, and 
faith. To this stage "The Sunken 
Bell belongs.
Registration Opens
For Surveying Camp
The 1931 Summer School of Sur
veying, which is conducted by the 
department of Civil Engineering, 
will open at 8 a. m., June 8, at 
Davis, W. Va.  Students enrolled 
in the departments of Building 
Construction and Civil Engineer
ing who wish to take cither a sixweeks or a three-weeks course at 
the camp arc > requested to file 
their applications as soon as possibl. Complete information about 
the course and the camp may be 
obtained from Prof. C. B. Stan
ton, 'Who is in charge of' all sum
mer surveying courses.
Course No. 208, the two-weeks 
course in surveying, will be held 
twice this summer on . the cam
pus. The first period will extend 
from June 8 to June 20; the second 
will b.egin September 9 and end 
September 22. As each of these 
sections is limited to an enrollment 
of thirty, Professor Stanton ad
vises immediate registration for 
those who wish" to be enrolled. 
Students who elect to take the 
September course arc advised to 
be on time as there will be no 
make-up period for late arrivals. 
A bulletin of the course may be 
obtained at the office of the de
partment of Civil Engineering.
NEW STUDENT COUNCIL AND ITS OFFICERS ARE INSTALLED; WILL HOLD FIRST MEETING TONIGHT
Senior Breakfast
Will Be June 8
The annual breakfast for Mar
garet Morrison seniors will be 
held at the Twentieth Century 
Club this year. It is scheduled 
at eleven oclock on the morning 
of June S. The price of tickets 
is $1.25, payable to Ann Mackin, 
chairman of the committee in 
charge. Other members of the 
committee are: Florence Schmalliorst, Alice Mac Long, Eliza
beth Magcrry and Virginia Page.
STUDENTS WILL 
ATTEND CONCLAVE
Several students have signified 
that they will attend the Middle 
Atlantic States Student Conference 
at Forest Park, Pa., June 10 to 20. 
Raymond Broscious and John W. 
Ladd will represent the Carnegie 
Tech Y. M. C. A.,' Vincent Mc
Bride will be sent by the Technon 
Club, and eight or ten girls will 
go from the campus Y. W. C. A. 
Rollin V. Davis, secretary of the 
canipus Y, will accompany the 
delegation.
Any other students who are in
terested in attending are asked to 
sec Mr. Davis at the Y office as 
soon as possible. According to 
present plans, the trip will be made 
by automobile.
H. N. MAXWELL WINS 
SMITH SCHOLARSHIP
The George H. Smith Scholar
ship award for 1931-1932 has been 
awarded' to Howard N. Maxwell. 
In addition to the regular award 
of $100 a special award of $50 lias 
been granted to Paul Zciglcr.
MaJcwell will be a senior in the 
Department of Physics. He is the 
newly-elected president of Tau 
Beta Pi, assignment editor of the 
Tartan, and will be secretary of 
the senior class in- Engineering. 
He is secretary, of Phi Sigma 
Kappa, social fraternity.
Zciglcr will be a senior in Me
chanical Engineering, and a man
ager of varsity football. He is a 
member of Delta Upsilon social 
fraternity.
The George H.' Smith Scholar
ship is awarded annually to a 
worthy junior in good standing in 
the College of Engineering. No 
student^ who have incurred a 
serious school ccnsurc arc con
sidered as candidates for the 
scholafship.
(Continued on Page Two)
BOOK EXCHANGE
OPENS AT SKIBO
The Student Book Exchange at 
Skibo Inn opened yesterday and 
will remain open this year until a 
week or so after summer school 
starts. George A. Pillsbury, a stu
dent in the College of Industries, 
is in charge of the exchange', and 
states that lie will buy books from 
students for the purpose of resale 
on the campus next year. The ex
change will be open at 8 oclock 
every morning and will, remain 
open all day and part of the eve
ning.
It is planned to reopen the ex
change a week before Freshman 
Week next fall so that summer 
school students will have an oppor
tunity to sell their ..book-. Books 
taken in this' year will be on sale 
at that time.
Dr. E. M. Pugh, Of Physics Department,
Now Carrying On Research In Magnetism
Dr. E. M. Pugh, assistant pror 
fessor of pl^sics, is at present 
carrying on an extensive research 
on the Hall Effect in a laboratory 
especially provided* by Carnegie In
stitute. Dr. Pugh has been ex
perimenting for several year; with 
the various phases of the Hall Ef
fect, which has to do with the 
conduction of electricity in materials 
in a magnetic field, and has made 
some remarkable discoveries con
cerning it.
Dr. Pugh was graduated from 
Carnegie in the department of elec
trical engineering in 1918, being 
prominent in activities and scholar
ship during his four years here. 
After graduation he served one 
year as an engineering ensign in 
the United States Navy and later 
filled the position of cashier in a 
Wyoming bank. In 1920 Dr. Pugh 
returned to Carnegie --in the capac
ity of instructor ir. physic j, doing 
graduate work at the school and 
at the University of Pittsburgh, 
from which university he received 
his masters degree in 1927. To 
obtain this degree Dr. Pugh con
ducted a primary research on the 
Hall Effect. >
Obtaining a leave of absence 
from Carnegie, Dr. Pugh entered 
the California Institute of Tech
nology' in the fall of 1927, where he 
studied directly under Dr. R. A. 
Millikan. While studying here he 
made an extensive research en-. 
titled Cataphorcsis in Rotating 
Electric Fields. This' work was 
done while Dr. Pugh was serving 
in the capacity of Fellow of the 
American Petroleum Institute. In, 
this research he discovered that the 
mobility of colloidal particles in 
electric fields was not constant as 
had been before assumed. This 
discovery proved to be very valua
ble to the interests of the Amer
ican Petroleum Institute.
In 1929 Dr. Pugh received , the 
degree of Doctor of Philosophy at 
the California Institute of Tech
nology and was immediately se
lected from numerous aspirants as 
a National Research Council Fel
low- In this capacity he began his 
rea1 research on the Hall Effect. 
When he returned to this school in 
the fall of 1930, he brought with 
him his entire research apparatus, 
(Continued on Page Four)
New President of Council 
Officially Assumes 
Office
HOLDS JOINT MEETING
New Appointments to 
1931-32 Thistle Are 
Approved
The new Student Council will 
hold its initial meeting tonight as 
a separate governing body under 
the direction of Plarold Brennan," 
the new president, who officially 
assumed office at the joint meet-, 
ing,- held on May 19, of' the in
coming and outgoing Student Coun-_ 
cils.
At this joint meeting two new 
appointments to the 193l-;l932 This
tle staff were approved. Phillip 
Auten will assume the office of 
business manager, while Gloria 
Kloos will be the associate editor. 
Auten is a sophomore in Com
mercial Engineering, a member of 
the Kiltie band, and a pledge...of 
Phi Mu Alpha, musical honorary. 
Miss Kloos is a sophomore in 
Household Economics, a previous 
president of the Cwens, and is a 
member of the W. A. A.'Board.
The following is a list of the 
new members of the Council: Har
old Brennan, president; James Cor
rigan, treasurer; Rosalind Mitichelcn, secretary; Harvey Collin?, 
president of Industries Senior class; 
William Conway, representative' of 
Industries Senate; John . Kronenberg, treasurer of Industrie's Senate; 
W. C. Holloway, president of- En
gineering Senior class; John Horn
ing, representative of Engineering 
Senate; Harry Howcr, treasurer.' of 
Engineering Senate; Sam. Wilson, 
president of Arts Senior c.lass; 
Raymond Knopf, representative of 
(Continued on Page Four)
ALUMNI FEDERATION 
HOLDS DANCE FRIDAY
Dr. Watkins Urgeo Senior* to 
Join Alumni Association Promptly
 Invitations have been sent to all 
members of the graduating clais 
for the dance in honor of the 1031 
Class to be given by the IndustriesAssociation of the Alumni Federa
tion. Each year one ..of the four 
alumni divisions of the Federation 
entertains the members of . thft 
graduating class at an informal 
dance to which the seniors of all 
four colleges arc invited to come 
and bring a guest. The dance this 
year will be held in the Carnegie 
Union from 9 to 1 oclock on Fri
day evening, May 29. Tickets arc*. 
being distributed at the Alumni - 
office. Stop in and get yours. 
Jerry McGeorges orchestra will 
furnish the music. Don.'t.rai&s thisopportunity ' for one more .get-to-. 
gether as a senior- class;  This : 
dance is planned as. a welcome to 
the seniors who will soon become 
alumni of C. I. T.
The last week has shown an in
creasing interest on the part of the 
seniors in joining the-alumni'asso
ciation before they leave the cam
pus. At this writing the Industries 
College has the most, paid-up 
members, with the departments 
of printing, sheet metal, and-'build
ing construction in the .lead. The 
College of Engineering js running 
a close second with the Physics 
and Electrical Engineering depart
ments showing most interest;. Eco-.- 
nomics and Secretarial department.- 
in'Margaret Morrison have an al
most complete paid-up membership, 
while the Music department takes 
the lead in the Arts College.
June 9 is the last date on which 
the social rate' of $2 will be avail
able. After that time the regular 
rate of $3 will become effective. 
If yQU have been carrying around., 
the membership blank which was 
given you by the senior solicitor 
of your department, dont put off , 
too long the payment o/ the small I 
amount necessary to make you a I 
member in good standing in the! 
Carnegie Alumni Federation. Pay-, 
ment may be made to the senior^ 
solicitors or at the Alumni offic 
Gymnasium building. In case you) 
have misplaced the membership ap-i 
plication blank given .you, a du-l 
plicate application is printed for* 
your convenience elsewhere in. this, 
issue. The payment of your alumni! 
dues noto will mean a great deal 
to you next fall, when you may be 
far away from Pittsburgh and 
will want to know what is hap
pening at*C. I. T.
Dr. Watkins, chairman of the 
faculty of the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College, makes the fol
lowing statement regarding alumni 
(Continued on Page Two)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO,THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 26, 1931.
SPORTS AND ALUMNI NEWS
VARSITY TRACKERS dosed their season with another 
record breaking week-end. The Grove City meet ended with the replacement of the quarter mile and shot put records. Seyboth 
dislodged the 16 pound ball 42 feet 2 inches, a new school 
record. Coulter lowered the time in the 440 to 40.2 seconds.It is a good thing for Karcis that tapes measure in half inches, for it was exactly that minute distance that separated 
Puschs second place in the discus from the best heave of Big John. The watches clicked off some astounding low figures for George Nease in the century, but the Grove City timers 
evidently would not .believe their eyes for they announced the 
time as 10 seconds.Earlier in the week Tom Coulter shattered all records for 
the 220 low timbers in the lanes of the Panthers Hollow, the new time being 24.7 seconds. So dont be surprised if you read in the papers next year about Coulter, of Canada, win
ning the Olympic hurdles in California.The results of the recent election for next years track cap
tain resulted in another clean sweep for the sophomore flash. The honor was bestowed on Coulter by a unanimous vote, but 
the school politicians are still wondering whom he voted for. Tom succeeds Ray Barger, a competent pole vaulter, who has 
been hindered a bit this year by sprained ligaments and the like. In the Pitt meet Ray took first place by ascending two inches 
higher than his 12 foot record of last year.
T1.IK PLEBE TRACK TEAM has followed' the general 
trend of the past few years by producing better results than their predecessors. .Ti this custom is continued for any length of time Coach Halferty will be': supplied  with material that 
could cope with the very best track teams.. Next year the varsity will be aided by such runners as Biggin, Haley, and 
Schell, with Forsman and Hiltz in the;field events.
THE TENNIS TEAMS have closed a fairly successful 
season with still better prospects for the next year. Rain can
celled half of the Varsity schedule, while the Plebes were the dominating factor in all eight of their meets. This fact is a new 
record for the freshmen books.>!< * * *
THE WRESTLING TOURNAMENT of last week scored 
a toe hold for this sport at Carnegie. The evening was, filled with ;i8 matchesthat brought to light some talent which could 
be used as a beginning for a Plaid team. At its next meeting ing, the Athletic Council is expected to pass on. the mat game 
as a minor sport for next year.
THE ANNUAL INTER-FRATERNITY TRACK MEET was taken with a substantial margin by the Kappa Sigs. Their 
entries gained points in all but two events, and later succeeded in carrying off a second cup by winning the feature relay race 
of the day. An added attraction was the lifting of 210 pounds of Dutch Croft over a bar 5 feet 9 inches from the ground.
:|i * * >(< *
ATHLETICS IN THE MINOR SPORTS chalked up their final victory of the year over a Hock of spring chickens at the 
annual banquet. Surprise packages, in the form of liquid balloons, were passed abotit at will. Sonic that readied their 
mark proved to be much more than a linger bowl.
Mr. Overend, graduate manager of athletics, revealed the information that .1.08 contests were wfyn, 50 lost, and !J tied in I he past: year. Also, 000 students were active in I lie sports 
department, 08 received letters, and 08 Won numerals.
|< >!< >b >H ,
SOFTBALL TEAMS have been eliminating themselves so 
much lately that there is nothing left but a champion by now. If the weather mans call for a clear day was heeded yesterday 
the Welch Hall athletes should possess the league title.. They defeated several good teams in their light to the finals, and their consistent playing has already brought them the Intra-Mural 
basketball championship of the city.The Sigma Nu's, losing their initial softball game, have ad
vanced to the finals from the lower bracket. Unless they have overturned the dope, they are the runners-up in the league.
THU THOUGHT OF A GOLF TEAM for Carnegies growing sport program is being considered for next year. Many facts seem to favor this addition for it would bring a ne(w class 
of students into action, and the low running cost makes it practical. All shapes and sizes can learn to swing a golf club with equal skill. The massive football player or the speedy 
track man hold's no advantage on the tee or green. Competent coaches could be found in the present faculty. There are enough 
opponents in the Pittsburgh district to form an interesting 
schedule.
Unknown talent in, the golfing..world was discovered in a recent match with Murray Armentrout playing the stellar role. 
The Big Train cracked a flat 70 on the first nine holes, and made a neat GO on the last nine to give him a new personal record. With 73 Nas par for the IS holes, Army continues to 
entertain hopes for reaching a new bottom on his golf score. The only thing exceptional in his golf line is the fact that he is 
truthful about the score.
ALUMNI FEDERATION
(Continued from Page One) 
membership: There is a tendency 
on the part of many of us to laugh 
at collcge spirit in these days when 
debunking has become one of. our 
most popular pastimes. Our cyni
cism results from our mistaking 
certain superficial manifestations for 
the- real spirit. The slavish fol
lowing of some eccentricity of dress 
or poso, the yelling of meaningless 
or boastful words, the bleatiijg of 
maudlin sentimentality, or the dis
play of willingness to risk life or 
limb in I he performance of physical 
Veals.have all masqueraded as true 
collcge spirit. Despite, the exist
ence of these manifestations there 
jloes exist a,subtle something which 
Mas a power to bind together a 
jjroup of individuals who have lived 
and worked for months and years 
i|n the same school, confronting the 
same problems, and enduring or en
joying, as the case may be, the 
same instructors. This force is as 
Important for the mutual well-being 
of the school and the graduate as 
are those forces which unite a fam-t 
ily group. The value of a college 
- .degree, to its holder depends on the 
 standard of scholarship and upon 
the prestige of the college. The 
maintaining of these important de
termining factors depends, in turn, 
upon the men and women who go 
out each year, from the college to
represent it in the business and 
professional world. Prompt affilia
tion with the Alumni Association is 
an excellent proof of interest and 
loyalty, two important components 
of real school spirit."
SCHOLARSHIP GROUP
(Continued from Page One) 
President, Shirley Brown; vice pres
ident, Kitty Lou Jcssop; secretarytreasurer, Rebecca -Linn; social 
chairman, Elsa Steinhnrt.
At: a recent meeting of the Li
brary Club, the following members 
were nominated for the year 1931- 
32: Hazel Gough, Nancy Ward,
and Ruth Phillips, president; Mary 
Louise Cunningham, Margaret Linn, 
Margaret McKelvey, and Dorothy 
Nowe 11, secret ary-treasu rcr.
H. N. MAXWELL
(Continued from Page One)
In .the awarding of the scholar
ship the applicants scholastic, stand
ing, personal need, personality and 
participation in school and. class 
activities are taken into considera
tion.
The award is made by the Alumni 
Association, College of Engineer
ing. The present award is held 
by Marvin Fox,' senior Physicist, 
and the special award by Ralph 
Frank, senior in Commercial En
gineering.
Trackers Defeat Grove City But Loose To Pitt
Carnegie Tcr.h finished its 1931 
track season on Friday afternoon 
by defeating Grove City Collcge 
with the score of 84 2-3 to 50 1-3. 
In the lasl week of competition 
the Plaid team had a 500 per cent 
average, loosing to Pitt last Tues
day 86 1-2 to 48 1-2, and winning 
the last meet with Grove City. ,
According to dopstcrs, the Tar
tans had a good chaVice to beat 
Pitt for the first time in the his
tory of the schools, but when the 
meet came around it showed that 
the pre-meet forecasters were 
wrong. In the 15 events Carnegie 
was able to take but five first 
pjaces, four second places, and 12 
Lhirds. Of the first places Coulter 
won two, Barger one, Karcis one 
aiid Armentrout, one. Once more 
this year a new Carnegie track 
record was set, this, one being the 
220 low hurdles. Coulter nego
tiated the distance in 24.7 seconds 
to break Coach Halfertys old rec
ord, which has stood for many 
years., In the pole vault, Captain 
Barger went over the bar at 12 
feet 2 inches for a first place. 
Karcis threw the discus 123 feet 3 
3-4 inches to take a first, while 
Armentrout heaved the hammer 
121 feel: 6 .1-4 inches for another 
five pointer.
Harris of Pitt took both the 
century and the 220 dashes. Nease, 
of the Plaid, was third in each 
event. Magnuson and Ewing took 
second and third in the quarter 
mile, while Stankey earned a sec
ond place in the half mile. In the 
mile and the two mile, the best 
Ramsey and Price could do was 
to finish third. Armentrout got a 
third in the high hurdles and| 
Shuri took a third in the 220 yard 
low hurdles.
Inthc field events, Blaine got a 
second in both the shot put and' 
the javelin. In the shot put Kar
cis got a third. Brindle won a 
third in the javelin, his*hcave be
ing close to that of Blaine's. The 
remaining* points were compiled by 
John, who finished third in the 
broad jump, Drcshar, who got a 
third in the hammer, and Schmitt, 
who was tied for third in the pole 
vault.
The Tartans had little difficulty 
in trimming the Grove City outfit 
84 2-3 to 50 1-3. The Plaid run
ners and field men gained 11 out 
of the 15 first places. Tom CoulUt was again high scorer by win
ning three first places. In the 
quarter mile Tom set a new Grove. 
City track record with the rcmarkable time'Of 4-9.2 seconds. He also 
won tin: high and low hurdles. 
Nease won the lumdrcd-yard dash 
in the fast time of 10 seconds :f|at. 
Croissant took the 220 with Nease 
finishing close upon his heels. In 
the half-mile Stankey was second 
and Burns third. Ramsey won the 
mile, with Frank coming in sec
ond, while Price won the two-mile 
with Lond finishing third.
Seyboth set a new school rccord 
in llie shot put, with a heave of 
42 feet 2 inches. Blaine, also of 
the Skibos, was third in this event. 
Armentrout took a second in the 
hammer, the winner, McCloskv, 
heaving the weight 140 feet. In 
the javelin, Carnegie took ' all 
places; Brindle won the event, 
with Stcntz- second and Blaine 
third. Karcis beat out Puscli -of 
Grove City by less than one inch 
for first in the discus, the dis
tance being 127 feet 2 inches. John 
got a second place in the broad 
jump, while Long and Wilson tied 
for second in the high jump. 
Schmitt, Barger and Day tied for 
first in the pole vault.
Panther Cubs Down
Freshmen Trackers
The Plebe track team closed a 
rather successful season last Tuesday 
by loosing to the Pitt Frosh with a 
score of SI 2/3 to. 44 1/3. The Plaid 
first year men were superior in the 
weight events, but their opponents 
scored heavily in the running lanes.
Hiltz threw the javelin for first 
place, and Forsman easily won his 
specialty in the discus. Sayles and 
Ilienzer placed f\rst and second in 
the hammer, while Haley completed 
the list of first places for the 
Plebes in the broad jump.
Captain Biggin ran two steady 
hurdle races, finishing second both
VACATION
POSITIONS!
A large, nationally known 
sporting equinnlent concern is 
seeking a number of college men 
and women Mo fill well-paying 
vacation positions. You will be 
able to earn big money this sum
mer. Your hours arc your own, 
you may select your own terri
tory, no experience nccessary. 
Your, friends in your city, at 
your golf club, in your own set 
will help you earn large salaries. 
For information simply drop a 
line to
NATIONAL GOLF 
BALL COMPANY
1513-15 MILWAUKEE AVE .
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS.
Wrestling Program 
Popular in Local 
Debut
Tn the gym last Wednesday a 
mouse' might have wondered at the 
cause of all the queer grunts, 
grimaces and queer-sounding plops 
that were pervading the surround
ings. To a spectator, however, it 
was a wrestling tournament con
ducted as an experiment to deter
mine whether there is sufficient 
interest to warrant adding this 
game to the schools list of inter
collegiate sports.
Those who attended the bouts 
will all vouch that they had a realevenings entertainment, for the 
boys, certainly extended them
selves to win cach match. What 
some of them lacked in experience 
and technique was made tip for'in 
scrappy action.
Amateur wrestling differs decid
edly from professional wrestling in 
that the amateur game is a sport, 
while the pro rackct is more or 
less of a show. No torture'holds 
such as strangle holds, hammer-, 
locks, or toe holds, are allowed, 
and extreme roughness is discour
aged at all times.
Coach Renfclin presented a large 
squad o$ promising men on Wed4 
nesday, and several of them show
ed unusual ability considering their 
lack of experience. Mr. Rciitclin 
lias had experience wrestling at 
Brooklyn Polytech, and this school 
has been fortunate in having such 
a capable man -rifeht among the 
faculty. Sargent Sommer has also 
done a great deal toward getting 
the wrestlers' into shape.
The first bout of the evening 
brought together Wertz and At
las, both of1 whom were members 
of this years boxing squad. Wertz 
has had considerable experience 
wrestling at prep school, and his 
performance showed it. He threw 
Atlas' in less than four minutes,, 
and had the situation well under 
control all through the bout. These 
lads arc in the 125-ponnd class.
Woods' avoii the 135-pound title 
by outpointing Schell and throw
ing Lowery. Woods is quite clev
er in 'riding his man and lookslike good varsity material next 
year.
Rodcnberg and McDcrmilt. fur-- 
nished plenty of action in the 
welterweight class, Sonnenberg tac
tics prevailing for the first two 
minutes. After that the boys 
tired somewhat and w.cnt back to 
more conventional wrestling. Rodenberg won on a fall in 7:24, and 
later won the title in this division 
by throwing Kipp, who had beat-, 
cn Cadmus and Bronson, in one 
minute.
Haley won out in the 155 pound 
class by taking decisions over 
Dodds and Scherba. Harry Mc
Curdy, quarterback on the football 
team, won (lie 165-pound award by 
beating Dillcs and Levine. The 
light-heavy title went to Ivrapk, 
who defeated Council I with a time 
advantage of 6:05.
Numerals will be awarded to 
W.ertz, Woods, Rodcnberg, Hal.cy 
and Krack. Coach R.entelin refe
reed all the bouts. Summary:
125 Pounds
Wertz threw Atlas, 3:55 
135 Pounds
Lowery threw Noll, 3:00.
Woods defeated Schell, time adv. 
8:40.
times to the more experienced Guay 
of Pitt. In the remaining track events 
the , Skibo yearlings were able to 
score only three third places. They 
were in the SS0, 220, afld mile run. 
With tough opposition, Hills man
aged to win a second place in the 
pole vault. Milligan and Keller were 
the big guns for the Panther Cubs, 
and they should also prove to be the 
same in future varsity meets be
tween the two schools.
The season just finished is classed 
as one of the best thus far. With 
four out of the six meets to their 
credit, the Plebes have surpassed the 
mark set by last years team. The 
steady preformances of Biggin, Fors
man, Haley and Schell are such that 
their addition to the varsity will be 
a helpful one.-Biggin was high poiiit 
man with 52 1/3, Forsman followed 
with 46 1/3, and Haley earned 37-1/3 
points. In addition to those named 
above,' Hiltz, Ford, Sayles, Hills, 
Carr, Edlcblut, I-Iienzer, Allen; Le
vine, Shann and Szj'moroski will re
ceive numerals.
TYPEWRITERS
All Makes Sold and 
Rented
Special Rates to Students
Agency Underwood, 
Royal-Reniington and 
Corona Portables
Standard Typewriter Co,
129 FIFTH AVENUE
Phone Atlantic 0342
Statnd
The Persona] Witnsg MfC&me
Tennis Tearn Loses 
To Pitt; Plebes 
Take Two More
Carnegie's "'varsity' tennis team 
met disaster in the form of Mis
ter Eddie Jacobs and his compan
ions last Monday, the Panthers 
winning by a 9-0 count. Crowds 
marveled at the smooth bullet-like 
shots off Jacobs racquet, and 
"Stew Dueger, himself a capa
ble racquet-wielder, seemed entire
ly unable to cope with the Balti
more boy. In the doubles, too, 
the Panthers proved themselves 
too smooth and experienced.
Groves and Berghane, though, 
were no-setups for their rivals 
across the park. Groves forced 
his opponent to three sets before 
lie succumbed, and Berghane made 
his man go into deuce setsl
On. Wednesday the team journied to W. & J. for a return joust 
with the Proxies. The Tartans 
had won the first meet 4-3, and 
were favorites to cop the second 
engagement, but the weatherman 
broke things up with the score tied 
at three all.
Bethany was scheduled to close 
the stason on Friday, but again 
weather conditions were in nO 
way suitable for tennis, and the 
meet was canceled.
Those earning letters, this year 
are Morris, McCloskey, Deuger, 
Berghane, Groves, . Gosling, and 
Fergus. The team has had a 
fairly successful season, winning 
five, losing - two, and tying one. 
Prospects for:, a good team next 
year are very promising, only one 
lctterman graduating.
The Plebe team' added two more 
victories during the week, to end 
their playing seasQn undefeated. 
Grafton was whitewashed '6=0, and 
W. and J. could take , but one 
match out of six. The Crafton 
meet was on foreign soil, but. the 
Proxy engagement was on the 
home grounds.
During the. past season, the 
freshman team lias Won 43 out of 
51 individual matches, which is 
quite a remarkable record  for any 
tennis team. In only one-meet did 
the Plebes lose  more than .two 
matches, and in that' meet one, of 
the losses was1 a"- default.
TlVose receiving numerals are 
I-Iartig, Corsiifcnhauser, Lowes, Mil
ler and Wjrshing. Tom Evans is 
manager and' will be awarded a 
letter.
FRATERNITY-DORMITORY 
SOFTBALL LEAGUE
LAST WEEKS RESULTS
P. D. T. , P. 1C. A. 3.
Welch 6, B. S. R. 5. - 
P. ,D., T. 10, Henderson 3. 
Sig. Nu 8, T. Xi 2.
Welch 10, Phi K. 5.
Site Nu 8, P. D. T. 3. '
Final: Woods .'threw Lowcrv,'
3:15.
145 Pounds
Cadmus defeated Parker, time 
adv. 4:24.
Kipp threw Bronson, 1:45.
Rodcnberg threw McDermott, 
7:24.
Scini-Final: Kipp threw. Cadmus, 
5:45.
Final: Rodcnberg threw Kipp, 
1:00.
155 Pounds
Haley defeated Dodds, time adv. 
4:39.
Scherba threw Ackley, 2:00.
Final: Haley delcatcd Scherba, 
Time adv. 1:52.
165 Pounds
Oppcrman threw Miller, 6:45.
Levine defeated Michaelson, time 
adv. 6:45.
McCurdy threw Dilks, 2:00.
Semi-Final: McCurdy threw Opperman, 1:45.
j Final: McCurdy defeated Levine, 
time adv. 3:10.
175 Pounds
Krack defeated Councill, time 
adv. 6:05.
Kappa Sigma Wins
Annual Track Meet;
The Kappa Sigs annexed both the 
track  and the relay' cups at the 
Inter fraternity track and field meet 
last week out of a field of twelveentries. Their total score on the 
track events amounted to 57 ,7/10 
points. Beta Theta Pi . came second 
with 32 7/10, Delta Tau Delta third 
with 23, and Phi Kappa fourth with 
20.
Mitchell, Raudabaugh, Ppuncey, and 
Flanagan composed the winning re
lay team and clipped the 4/5 mile in 
3:23 with Theta Xi coming in sec
ond at 3:28.
"Dutch.- Croft was high scorer of 
the meet with *a total mark of 17 
points, which included firsts in the 
high jump, shot put, and discus. 
Dutch cleared the bar in the former 
at 5 feet 9 inches, and the ease in 
which he put his 210 lbs. avoirdupois 
over can be relished only by those 
who witncssed.it.
Summery of . events:
120 yd. Low Hurdles: Ingham, B. 
T. Pi; Binder, Phi R; 'Jagnow K. 
Sig. ' . . -
100 yd. Dash: Pouncey K. Sig; 
Ingham, B. T. Pi; Brewer, D. T. D.
220 yd. Dash : McConnell, B. T. Pi; 
Flanagan, K. Sig; Scherba, L. C. A.
One Lap: Talbert, Phi K.; Lewis, 
D. T. D.; Groves, T. Xi.
Two Lap: Mitchell, K. Sig; Howcr, 
B. T. Pi; Talbert, Phi K.
Four Lap: Mitchell, K. Sig;
Kleinhaus, DV T. D.; Sigler, S. P. E.
High Jump: Croft, K. Sig; Binder, 
Brewer, D. T. D.; , Ingharri, B. T. Pi.
Broad'Jump: Reuter, K. Sig; McCoimcl, B. T. Pi; Raudabaugh, K. Sig.
. Pole Vault: Lampher, S. A. E.;
TcnEyek, K. D. R. ; Reuter,. K. Sig.
Shot Put: Croft, K Sig; Felckciistinc.'S. Nu; Elsaesscr, D. T. D.
Discus: Croft, K. Sig; Flanagan, 
K. Sig;- Flcckenstinc,- S. Nu.'
Javelin: McCurdy, S. A. E.;
TcnEyck, IC. D. R.; Lewis, D. T. D.
Relay: Kappa Sigma, Theta . Xi, 
Delta-Tau Delta, Kappa Delta Rho.
Cigarette Contest
Awards Announced
Six of the , major prizes. :in...the 
Camel 'cigarcttc. .contest awards 
which were announced .. recently, 
were won by cojfegc; graduates, .al
though a tabulation shows that 
only eight of the-38 prize winners 
were listed as having attended 
college.
Second prize. of $10,000 went to 
Mrs. Walter Sweet,' Brooklyn* 
Navy Yard, who graduated, from 
Radcliffe College in 1920. Julius 
M. Nolle of Duluth, Minn., winner 
of the third prize of $5,000, is a 
Yale man and member of Phi Beta 
Kappa.
Four of the five winners of 
$1,000 prizes were listed as -College; 
graduates. Albert B. -Franklin,III, 
of Cambridge, Mass., is - now a 
graduate student at Harvard; Fred
erick E. Robinson of Coronada 
Beach, Cal., graduated from Har
vard; William A. Schrader of 
Louisville, Ky., was a Purdue man, 
and Dr. D. II. Soper of Iowa City, 
is an instructor in dentistry at the 
University of .Iowa.
Frank Cartright of Washington, 
D. C\, winner of one- of the $500 
prizes, graduate from Cornell, and 
Dr. Clifton B. Leech of Provi
dence, Ri I., winner of a $100 
prize," graduated from Boston Uni
versity.
Jaincs T. .Sharkey oi Boston, 
winner of' the first prize of $25,000 
-received, only a common school 
education in Ireland before the 
age of 16, -when he came to thiscountry.
NOTICE
Due to the rush of business 
in the Alumni Office in connec
tion witli the senior alumni cam
paign the June issue of the Car
negie Alumnus, the final issue of 
the school year, will be some
what delayed in reaching our 
members. The first issue of the 
fall will be sent out in October.
Whether You Go By . .
Steamship, Train or Plane
/\UR TRAVEL BUREAU will help 
you decide wherewhen and hozu 
to travel; assist you in obtaining your 
Passport and Visas; make your steam
ship, hotel and rail reservations, etc.
This is part of the service offered by 
your bank and is entirely without 
charge. The same care is exercised in 
advising you regarding your travel in
vestment as is shown in every depart
ment of your bank.
London and Paris, All Expense 
Tours, $195.00
Write or Call for Booklet
OAKLAND BRANCH
PEOPLES - PfTTSBURGH TRUST CO.
Forbes Street and Meyran Avenue MAyilower 0300
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP 
CARNEGIE ALUMNI FEDERATION, PITTSBURGH, PA.
I desire to becomc n member of. the Carnegie Alumni Federation, and -wish to take advantage of the special rate for seniors, which I understand to be S2.00 if paid before June 9, 1931.
Name.
Present Address.-. 
Home Address^.
Attached is check_cash.for my alumni dues for the
year July 1, 1931, to June 30, 1932.
Indicate College from which you are graduating:
Engineering------Arts._________Industries_______M. M...................
Dues may be paid to class agent, or at Alumni Officq, 206 
Gymnasium.;
After June 9, 1931, the regular $3.00 dues rate will be effective.
The Best Way To Keep In Touch With Your CollegeALUMNI MEMBERSHIP!
WOMENS ATHLETICS
Archery
The archery tournament will be 
held soon, and the contestants 
have been picked. This sport is 
attracting more attention each 
3-car, and more are competing as 
time goes on. _
i Soccer
The practices are being held 
regularly during the, week, and 
there' is a good turnout of fresh
man and sophomores. The play
off will be held soon. On the 
White Team, forwards are Busse, 
Ralston, Chelete, Brown, Gaugli 
and Zachasky; half-backs are Garrahn, .Warden and .Baunstun; full
backs are Krcppa and Mel linger; 
goal-keeper is Ross. On the Yel
low- Team, , forwards are Duffy, 
Stockbridg'c, King, Ross, Jacobs,- 
Kloos;' half-backs  are Mc-Nary, 
Stunbing ;and Harrison; full-backs 
are Thompson and Barret; -' goal 
keeper is Cooper.
Tennis
All ) the first rounds have been 
played, and many of the second 
rounds are being played now. If 
the weather permits, all the pre
liminary matches will be played
Y. M. C. A. INSTALLS 
COMING OFFICERS
At 'a Candle-light . service May 
19, the Y. W. C. A. installed its 
officers for the coming year. Janet 
McClelland, the new president; as
sumed her office after lighting her 
candle-from that of the past prcsi-, 
dent, Iinogene Schory. The new 
cabinet also took' part in the cere
mony and a new advisor, Mrs. 
Agnes Kirk-Patrick, head of the 
Freshmen .Dormitorj' Unit, was 
welcomed. The installation was 
concluded with a supper, in the 
Recreation hall of Margaret Mor
rison. .
The new vice president, who is 
also in charge of the Big and 
Little Sister Movement, is Gert
rude Novak. The other officers 
are , Mary Townsend, secretary, and 
Ruth Brooks, treasurer. The cab
inet for nex,t year is as follows: 
membership,. Margaret Accipiter 
and Alice Work; social chairman, 
Winifred McClain; student indus
trial, Marjorie Holden; social serv
ice, Marian Colder; publicity, Ruth 
Phillips; music, Vivian Johnston 
posters, Edna. Pierson; freshman 
cabinet, Jean , Shirk and Alberta 
Jackson, and programs, Mary L.ou 
Bradstock.'
Akron
The Akron Clan held a -bridge 
party on Friday night, May 15, atthe  Valley View Club. Sixteen 
couples were present. Sandwiches, 
calces and coffee Were served at 11 
o'clock, after which Ralph Barrow 
at the piano furnished music for 
the members to dance. The fol
lowing alumni were present: J. R. 
Bar.row, George Bruggemcier, John 
Cauffiel, Isabel Greenberger Fcerer, 
W. A. Fraser, Louis Greibling, 
Stuart Hahn, Howard Hindcrer, H. 
S. Karch, W. D.- Loulan, Air. and 
Mrs. Manly Mitchell, Betly^Knapp. 
Thomas, Agnes Lawler Vaughan, 
W. K. Williams and Tom Gotham. 
Notices are  to go out this week , 
advising Clan members of a dance 
to be held June 13, at the Valley 
View Club. Members should get in 
touch with Tom Gotham, Mowhawk 
Rubber Company,., for further in* 
formation.
this week, and finals will terminate 
the season next week. As exams 
are coming soon, all contestants 
are requested to play their matches' ' 
just as soon as possible. ;
F!W
ON THE ROLLICKING WAY
te EUROPE
r. "P
oui> way 
fo B/Afffa
It s a fun factory the rollicking, frolicking Tourist third cabin on IMM liners. Any kind j ot merriment made to order on a moment's notice! Peals of laughter a specialty. Not to mention alivcly crowd, cosy.accommodations and food that's simply grand! In 1930 the rccord number of 60,522 passengers traveled "IMM Tourist!"
$105up
Delightful Tourist third cabin accommoda- * tions on such famous liners as Majestic, world's largest ship, Olympic, Homeric, Be!- gcnhnif/, LafiLma. Britannic, Adriatic and many others. NO CLASS DISTINCTIONS on thcMiiuickabda nor on theTourist third cabin liners dc luxe, Pcunlaiui and Western- . land. Their entire former cabin accommodations are devoted exclusively to "Tourist." The only steamers of their kind in the world.Several sailings each week to the principal ports of Europe and the British Isles. Send for fascinatinglitcraturedescribing jgaN Tourist third cabin in detail.
 -I* aArregc agc -gIA 
*SAhS oglMi niIdA -irSiA 
usttc hg S< li>hgAMeI 
Mie/M>Am feSib
WHITE STAR  RED STAR 
ATLANTIC TRANSPORT
International Mercantile Marine Lines
StiMy EngineeringIn Cool Colorado
The Colorado School of Mines is loeated in Golden at the very 
foot of the Rocky Mountains. It is but twelve miles by paved road 
to the capital city of Denver, and but an hours drive to the great 
Continental Divide, with streams and forests and snowcapped peaks 
rising to the sky.
The Summer School Engineers
Basic engineering courses in Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics, 
English and Design; Courses in Assaying, Geology, Analytical Me* 
chanics, Graphic Statics, Strength of Materials, Thermodynamics, 
Physical Chemistry, and Plane and Mine Surveying; Preparatory 
subjects, for students deficient in entrance requirements. Advanced 
Algebra, Solid Geometry, Chemistry and Physics, arc offered at the 
Colorado School of Mines Summer Session from
July 6 to August'28,193i
This summer session is given especially for students who wisE 
to make up work or to secure additional credits. All work is con
ducted by the regular faculty of the School of Mines. For complete 
description of class room courses, and field -work offered in the sum* 
mer session, write to the Registrar for Quarterly .Group Z45.
Colorado School oS Mines
School oS Mineral Industries

---------------------------------------------------

EDUCATIONAL VALUEin every 
college town there 
is one outstanding 
smoking 
tobacco -40
N m \
Statistics recently published show 
that American Industries have es
tablished more factories in foreign 
countries since the passing of the 
tariff bill in 1929 than in the eight 
years preceding its passage. This con
dition has been brought about be
cause twenty-six foreign countries 
have enacted retaliatory tariffs against 
the United States.
How much of the present depres
sion is the result of t'his move-, 
mcnt cannot be estimated, but such 
a wholesale moving of American In
dustry cannot but affect the Ameri
can worker to a great extent. This 
not only affccts the laborer but also 
the technical man and the returns of 
dividends to the stockholders and 
bondholders of American Industries, 
This means a decrease in the domes
tic demands of labor and a lessen
ing of activity in the industrial cen
ters of the nation. ,
Such a decrease will mean that in 
the future American Industry will 
produce only enough goods to sup
ply the domestic market, as all goods 
formerly needed for export will be 
made abroad. The last five years 
have seen a drop of one-third the 
normal output of our factories for 
this reason. But the greatest fall in 
this decline has been since the pas
sage of the tariff measure. Whether 
or not the new tariff policy will bene
fit this country in the end is very 
much a question, but for the pres
ent it seems to be of a decided dis
advantage.
Carnegie Techs first attempt at 
wrestling, as an addition to the ath
letic activities of the school, proved 
to be a successful show. Held in 
the gym last Wednesday evening, the 
exhibition attracted about 200 specta
tors, including many of the fair sex. 
Other news on this event may be 
found on the . Tartan sports page, 
but the comments stated here are 
the impressions of a night student.
There were about thirty-six con
testants entered in the trials which 
included every weight class except 
the unlimited. The purpose of this 
exhibition was to determine the qual
ity of material available on our cam
pus and the enthusiasm which the 
sport would arouse in the student 
body.
Many of the contestants had only a 
few weeks practice and coaching 
under Mr. Rcntclin and Sergeant 
Sommers, while others had more ex
perience that they had acquired in 
high school or other colleges before 
entering Carnegie. Gipp and Hopperman, among others, demonstrated 
that they' knew what the game was 
all about. Gipp and Iiopperman were 
both defeated, however, in the final 
bout of their respective weight classes.
The brightest feature of the eve
ning was the performance of Mc
Curdy, Carnegies quarterback^ Macs 
wrestling ability had not been known 
before the bouts started, but the 
manner in which he- defeated his 
three opponents left nothing in the 
minds of his friends but the fact 
that Mac had been holding out on 
them. lie scored falls over his first 
two opponents, throwing the second 
victim in less than two. minutes 
time. In the finals of 'his class Mac 
won the decision over a fellow by 
the name of Levine. Levine was 
working under a handicap for, besides 
wrestling, he was also actiqg in the 
capacity of his own press-agent. Mac 
handled Levine very tactfully and 
when the bout was over it was plain- j 
ly seen that Levine's press-agent had 
over-ratc'd him.
That Carnegie will take" to a 
wrestling team is assured for the 
spirit and co-operation that arc part 
of the requirements of a successful 
organization have been shown by the 
students interested in the sport. What 
the plans will'be:' for conducting the 
sport next year, we do not know. 
However, it is certain that the work 
done this spring hy Mr. Rentdlin 
and Sergeant Sommers will not have 
been in vain, for this sport is due 
to prosper on our campus; if'not 
intercollegiate, maybe interfratcrnity.
As previously announced on this 
page, all night students who had 
lockers during the past year must 
vacate them by August 1. Students 
who have finished their classes 
should have- done so by now, and 
those taking supplementary courses 
should vacate, their loekers as soon 
as their school is over.
All property left in the lockers 
after that date will be removed and 
lost as far as the student is con
cerned. In removing your property 
remember that the lock which you 
bought last fall is your property and 
should be taken also. Next fall you 
will report to the key room and have 
another locker assigned to you. 1
Night students who contemplate re
turning to Carnegie next fall, and 
who wish to take advantage of the 
student tickets, would do well to 
place thqir reservations now. Night 
school registration does not take 
place until October 6, and by that 
time the most desirable scats will 
have been sold.
There has already been a big de
mand for scats for some of the 
games next fall. The Notre Dame 
game undoubtedly will again Lbe a 
sellout. Order your tickets now and 
pay for them August 1. 1931. Ap
plication blanks for tickets may be 
secured by calling, phoning, or writ
ing Clarence Ovcrcnd, Graduate Man
ager, Gymnasium, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 'Phone 
Mayflower 2929.
The Carnegie football schedule for 
next fall follows:
Sept. 26Buffalo, Buffalo, N. Y.
Oct..3W. & J., here.
Oct. 10Ga. Tech, Atlanta, Ga.
Oct. 2APurdue, here.
Oct. 31N. D., here.
Nov. 7Pitt, here.
Nov.. 14Temple, Phila., Pa.
Nov. 26N. Y. U., New York.
At Illinois its
ALONG Green Street, wliora 
"V campus leaders stroll ... in 
the great slate-roofed fraternity 
houses of Champaign . . . there is 
one pipe tobacco which always rolls 
up the biggest vote. At Illinois it'a 
Edgeworth, every time.
A pipeEdgeworth. That is the 
Bmolcing combination which haa 
won the college man. Harvard, 
Cornell, Michigan, Stanford, Dart
mouth  all agree with Illinois. 
Natural merit has made Edgeworth 
the favorite tobacco in Americas 
leading colleges and universities.
College men everywhere respond 
to the appeal of pipespacked with 
cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Bo 
guided by their verdict: try Edgeworth yourself. Find it at your 
nearest tobacco shopthe tin. 
Or, for generous free sample, ad
dress: LaruB & Bro. Co., 105 S. 
22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SIWOKIMG TOBACCO
Keep in Mind
College Parties, Class 
and Fraternity Affairs 
catered at reasonable 
prices. Ask for Menus 
and Estimate.
PastriesIce Creams 
IcesCakes  Candies 
Nuts  delivered as 
needed. Phone your or
der.
Equipment rented-Ta
bles, Chairs, Linens, 
China, Glassware  in 
any quantity.
Try our noon and eve
ning lunches when t 
Bart Liberty.
Stores Hours:
8 A. M. to 11:30 P. M.
AN ASSIGNMENT
Have you ever worked under dif
ficulties? Rather a hard thing to do 
at times, especially if you .dont 
know what to do. Imagine my pre
dicament, the editor gives me an as
signment that I must immediately 
fulfill. Just try to write an article 
while in a roomful of banging type
writers and babbling news reporters. 
To my right is a typewriter that 
sounds like a tractor going over a 
cobble stoije street, while near it a 
harvesting machine is under full 
steam. Thoughts wont even come in
to my head, the racket scares them 
away. Another sound like a Chicago 
racketeers picnic comes from my 
left, the reporter has just had a 
brain storm and is trying to rcducc 
it to wordshe probably will die in 
the attempt.
Then an ungodly voice yells out 
asking for a title suggestion for an 
article just writtenhe gets it and 
in no uncertain way. Doors open and 
elose, chairs shuffled about, feet 
scraping, the wind blows loose pa
pers about, how can one write in 
this bedlam of noise? Surely those 
masterpieces of /literature were, not 
written in any such surroundings., 
Why must newspaper offices be such 
temples of disorder, why must editors 
exist, why must newspapers be pub
lished, why must people read, why 
must people be educated, why must 
I write an article? I ask you, why? 
Well, Tm not going to do it, the 
editor can take carc of his own pa
per, I quit.
On the Way to Success
For over sixty years we 
have been helping young peo
ple with their financial af
fairs and showing them how 
a sound banking conncction 
aids them on the way to 
success. Your future pros
perity depends on llirifty 
habits in spending and sav
ing; a bank account will 
reach you to handle money 
wisely and will give you a 
foundation of experience in 
financial transactions. We 
welcome student accounts 
regardless of size.
HUMANISM IN SCHOOLS
At a rccent educational confer
ence one of the speakers pointed 
out the need of humanism and 
common sense in education. That 
he voiced the opinion of many of 
our educational leaders cannot be 
denied, but the viewpoint of the 
students on this important ques
tion would be very interesting.
When students are together and 
discussing their various instructors 
and professors they throw some 
interesting light on the effect of 
various methods of teaching used 
by instructors. If the reasons 
given by the students for liking 
or disliking certain, faculty mem
bers were analyzed one would find 
that those -most liked were the in
structors who were;, a. little more 
personal in their attitude towards 
the students. A friendly word 
from the instructors goes much 
farther in results attained than an>j 
attitude of superiority.
Some instructors are of the 
opinion that to be a good teacher 
an attitude of aloofness and su
periority must be maintained, but 
this is always reflected in the atti
tude of the student towards him. 
The student gets no pleasure from 
his work, but merely docs it be
cause he is required to, and conse
quently never has a good word for 
his instructor. On the other hand, 
if the instructor were more human 
in his theories of teaching lie 
would have more success with his 
students and a feeling of greater 
friendliness would exist that would 
be of mutual benefit to all con
cerned.
Edgcuiorth is a. bien d of/i ncold bur- leys, with its natu- ral senior enhanced 
by Edgeworths dis
tinctive ''clcvnnth process" Buy Ef.gcworth anywhere in twoJorms- 'Ready- Rubbed." and"Plug Slice. All sizes, 15 pocket package to. 
potimi humidor tin. I
..Exr"1' IWGII GRADE
Collese JewelrySeal StationeryPennantC. M. STAUFT
380fi FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students Supplies
Feisl the difference 
IIeak the difference
8SPOR OTR ANDDRNLRUMR
One of our American Colleges re
cently faced a student strike" be
cause of a ruling established which 
would make military training com
pulsory. One cannot help but feel that 
the students were perfectly justified 
in voicing an objection. The mili
tary training given by the various 
organizations passing as such in our 
schools have little, if any, practical 
value in actual battle conditions.
The experiences and lessons learned 
during the last war served in a 
large measure to bring this point out. 
The true, military colleges, the regu
lar army and the marine corps sup
plied most of the officers in the 
early part of the war, and as these 
ranks were depicted through losses 
on account of injury, death, or the 
men being . invalided home, theirl 
places were taken by men with bat
tle experiences.
Soldiering, like sailoring or en
gineering, is just enough of a science 
to demand particular attention, and 
to become valuable as a soldier, a 
man must acccpt that alone as his 
profession and he must practice his 
methods just as carefully as the 
specialist in other lines.
Besides, the government schools 
arc capable of supplying us with 
enough peacetime officers, trained for 
war, and it seems hypocritical to 
preach world peace, and insist upon 
military training in our schools and 
colleges.
A safer course to follow would be 
to let those who desire such train
ing go to academies or institutions 
where this sort of training is a 
specialty, and not insist upon mili
tary training and tacticts in all the 
colleges of the country.
McG.
cuRcrs
BEAUTY SHOP
men anti women alike to Camels in tho 
scientific new Humidor Pack. As you 
draw in that fragrant, mild, cool smoke, 
redolent with tile joy of choicest Turk
ish and mellow Domestic tobacco, only 
then do you realize the full importance 
of this new Humidor Pack.
For scorched or dried tobacco is brash 
and tasteless and its smoke is unkindly 
hot to the longue and throat.
If you are already a Camel smoker 
you have noticed the improvement in 
this your favorite cigarette.
If you dont smoke Camels, try them 
for just one day to sec how much youre 
missing. After youve known the mild
ness and delight of a really fresh ciga
rette, switch back if you can.
Like an oasis in the duBly desert of dried 
tobacco, the new Camel Humidor Pack 
brings you the delight of fine quality 
cigarettes in factory-fresh, mild con
dition.
Now, wherever you go, you can always 
be sure of getting a frcsh9 tlxroat-easy 
cigarette when you demand Camels.
Its easy to tell the difference. Your 
sense of touch detects it as you roll a 
cigarette between, your fingers. Dry to
bacco is stiff and crumbly. Camels arc 
full bodied and pliant.
Even your ear can tell the difference. 
For a dried-out cigarette crackles when 
you roll it.
But the real tcBt is taste and taste is 
causing a great nation-wide switch of
205 N. Highland Avenue
MALE HELP WANTED
AGENTS  Automobile gas 
saver, carry vest pocket, sells 
$1.50, profit 100%, extra 50.% 
for installing. Write at once 
for territory. E. T. Barron & 
Co., 19 East Lake. St., Min
neapolis, Minn.
Special Rates in Permanent 
Waving for Carnegie 
Tech Girls
Telephone, Montrose 3191
ACCOUNTS WELCOME
at
Forbes National Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND PITTSBURGH
OFFICERS
First Church of Christ
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH 
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening- Testimony Meeting At 8:00 P. M.
RICHARD K. MELLON____,
THOS. If. MeCANDLESS___
HARRY S. BROWN________
MISS N. C. FITZPATRICK.
J. NEVIN GARBER................
PAUL C. EDMUNDSO
------------...------Preildent
.Vic President and Cashier
-----.....Assistant Cashier
-.Asaiutant Cashier
------.Jlsaintant Canhler
----------------------------Truiit Officer
BOARD OF DIRECTORSTypewriters
THOMAS S. BAKER 
President Camelie Institute ot Technology 
JAMES M. BOVARD Moorhead & Knox. Attorneys 
JOHN G. BOWMAN Chancellor Univa-aity of Pittsburgh 
JOHN V. CASEV 
Prwddant John F. Casey Co. 
ELMER E. COL*Fred dent Nationnl Union Fir* Inaurane Company 
A. REX FLINN President Booth b. Flinn Company
HOWARD VL JOHNSON Auditor Llgonier Valley Railroad
HERBERT A. MAY Vice President Union Drawn Steel Company 
THOMAS H. MeCANDLESS Vice President and Cashier 
RICHARD K. MELLON President; Director Mellon National Bunk 
WILLIAM 8. MOORHEAD Moorhead A Knox, Attorneys 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS Real Eslnla 
ALAN M. SCA1FE Vie President Wm. B. Scaifa & Sons Company 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN RcKearchDirector Mellon Institute of Indas tri aJ
Ai > i> /gO <>/  hS>rgi >MieSc 
C< moan* o/ /fin pl/Arrg ElOc to 
UUtegRh  PgA> rSiigABirk pl< ./er$ 
C< A>S gihS1i>r$ rgSrr 8Ari rn. 
/AS Pg/> AS <hlg >l/ SI hBdA$ALL MAKES AND COLORS 
Special Discount and Rental 
Rates to Students
FRIDAYAmerican Typewriter Co.
415 FOURTH AVENUE 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Court 1019
TUESDAY, MAY 26, 1931.1*HE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS.Ube Carnegie (Ha 16
ALL RETURNS FOR DANCE 
TICKETS MUST BE MADE 
PROMPTLY
Iflleht
 China has gone advertising mad 
Well thats an interesting itnm. I 
noticed an article in one of cur daily 
papers that the Abodes of Gods in 
China are becoming Billboards. It 
seems that the ancient pagodas, which 
were built centuries ago are now 
utilized today for posting advertising 
slogans. These works of Chinese 
art, towering to the skies, and which 
u ually Crown hill tops are always 
,tne most conspicuous objects of the 
landscape, and what a natural place 
to place advertising. The plan had 
first been adopted by the national 
government for posting political 
catchwords. However, it didn't take 
long for the tobacco companies to 
realize that there was a wonderful 
chance to spread their smoke, and 
presto the poor pagodas were plas
tered. The tobacco companies are in 
keen competition for these prize posilions, and one company has indicated 
its determination to place its cigaret 
posters on every pagoda in the coun
trywhat a determination. There 
are about 2,000 of these pagodas in 
existence, and their erection cost 
millions of dollars, but what is that 
to the tons of millions which go up 
in smoke every year. Those who 
smoke must be satisfied. Regardless, 
we will have our weed. It wont be 
very long before all the pagodas 
have been appropriated, and then the 
enterprising tobacco merchants will 
have to look elsewhere for space to 
display their wareshow would the 
ancient China Wall do?
Looks as if Carnegie has gone in 
for some more building, or at least 
remodelling. I noticed that the halls 
of Industries, at the upper end, are 
full of partitions and building ma
terial. . I also notice that at the 
name location the roof of the print
ing shop has been removed and they 
Are about to make some changes. 
Wonder what this will lead to? May
be they will put a tall section here 
and thus rival the Cathedral of 
Learning. Now, wouldnt that be some
thing for us to do. You know, we 
must uphold our good name and the 
reputation of C. I. T. even though 
it is dragged down by some night 
students who arc working on the 
tampus.
Well, since they are making im
provements and whatnot during the 
summer, I would like to suggest that 
they fix the tables in the drawing 
rooms on the third floor of the 
Arts. In some of the studios one 
would think that they are past mas
ters of the wood-carver's art in
stead of pen and ink pushers. Its 
too bad that some students cant ap
preciate that there are other students 
who have to come after them to use 
these tables. Only recently it was 
'noticed that these tables were all 
stuck , up with paste indicating that 
some careless students were again at 
work.
No, they are not going to remove 
the yellow dogs, I mean yellow horses 
which adorn the campus, but I 
think they should. I am sure that 
there are thousands of us who would 
be' glad to see the day when the 
teams were driven away and let the 
beauty of the campus reign supreme. 
Until that day comes, lets live in 
hope, that is if we dont have to 
live too long.
Well, did you see that great dis
play of flying which the government 
had promised Pittsburgh? No, and 
nobody else did either. There you 
are, Pittsburgh gets it in the neck 
again, only this time it was in the 
air. A large number of the curious 
waited all day for the promised 
treat, but the wait was in vain. The 
explanation was anything but satis
factory to those who ' ad the audacity 
(well that is a fifty dollar word) 
to  complain,- but what is a com
plaint or two to those at Washing
ton, et al. We are only the small 
fry in the Smoky Cit3*.
MEMORIAL DAY
If anyone belongs to that class of 
phlegmatic individuals who are not 
moved by the sight of rank after 
rank of veterans ofi all ages, and of 
all stages of life, tramping along 
streets, marching to the cemeteries 
and paying a small but effectual 
tribute to those gone before, it can 
truly be said that they arc very selfcentered individuals.
If there is anyone who is not stir
red hy "taps over a soldiers grave, 
followed by the sharp reports of 
rifles in the hands of the honor 
guard; is not moved by the halt in 
the march on Armistice Day, when 
the bugle notes echo among the 
buildings along the line of march, 
then they too are self-centered and 
unappreciative.
There have been many wars in the 
past, and wars will Continue to be. 
The next war, which will probably 
come entirely too soon, and the next, 
and next, and next, will each exact 
its toll, and each appointed day 
thereafter, the next men to die will 
pay tribute to the already dead.
The best we can hope for is 
long continuance of the unstable 
peace we now labor to bolster and 
hope that the time will come when 
force will be merely a physical, 
scientific term, having no meaning 
in the political world. McG.
BOX TOWN
The burning of Box Town 
last week had its pathetic as well 
as despicable points. In the first 
place, it is very strange that there 
were no official orders given eith
er by the railroad, who owned the 
propertj, or the police heads who 
have excellent inadequate memo
ries when necessary.
Granting that tjie sanitary facili
ties, and other bits of the living 
conditions were unsatisfactory from 
the point of view of the best 
medical authorities, the condi
tions certainly werent as bad as 
those existing in the trenches dur
ing the war. And yet, the same 
men who ordered the burning of 
these shelters arc identically the 
same ones who indulge in such 
windy and heart-rending (?) 
speeches on Armistice Day.
There are not sufficient charity 
facilities in this city to care for all 
our worthy poor, and, if'a few 
who have more personal pride than 
those who sponge off all and 
sundry elect to found .such an un
obtrusive and satisfying communi
ty, there seems to be a great deal 
to be said in their favor.
Unless there was a condition 
obtained which endangered pub
lic health, peace and safety, which 
has not as yet been proven, the 
public is perfectly right in voicing 
its indignation.
McG.
WAGE CUTS
DANCE RETURNS 
STILL OUTSTANDING
There are several salesmen who 
have not made a complete return 
of the tickets sold by them for the 
Night Student Council dances. It 
i? necessary that these returns 
should be made immediately so 
that the records and accounts for 
the year may be cleared and the 
work of the Council completed for 
the year. All returns are to be 
made at once to E. E. McDonald, 
treasurer of the Night Student 
Council, Box 137, C. I. T. Post 
Office. G.
The head of one of the largest 
industries recently condemned com
petitors for cutting their payroll in 
struggle to meet present condi
tions. And it happens, this gentle
mans organization is perfectly 
justified in this statement. The 
particular concern has done every
thing possible to maintain wage 
standards and working conditions. 
Th writer knows of several cases 
in the city where this honest poli
cy of protecting the employee has 
proven a blessing to the large 
number of people employed by 
the conccrn and that they have 
been entirely against all the rules 
of the cold-blooded efficient 
methods indulged in by many 
firms.
A large number of Carnegie 
men, both day graduates and night 
graduates, as well as present night 
school men work in and about the 
Pittsburgh district and no doubt 
have been confronted with the 
various practices which have been 
employed in an endeavor to cut 
the overhead. It is a very difficult 
situation to have to face, but 
would seem that the good will of 
an organization is more important 
than the mere monetary considera
tion of curtailing expenses. This 
curtailment reduces in no small 
measure the turnover and purchas
ing power of the army of em
ployes, because of the reduced 
earning power.
There is much room for thought 
on the subject,, especially for those 
who are or were employed by 
business concerns which, truly fall 
into the class of those, which have 
long been given the appellation 
soulless.
BUY YOUR
From
J. Q. LIETMAN I.30 
A. M. FISHER E.30
Representing
S. C. LEWARS, Inc.
Phone Churchill 8500
PaintHardwareElectric SuppliesOakland Hardware Co.
Mayflower 0923Iroquois Block
1931, R. J. Rsynsldi Tobacco Compcay, Wiwton-Salea, ZJ.Cs

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 26, 1931.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 
AFTER OFFICE HOURS CALL Editor In Chief.......'............PenhurBt 0576...........................................................Schenlcy 3739Bunlne. Manager ------..............~Ha*cl 9473Plaid Editor ....................................Schenlcy 2389
Published oncc every -week during the collcge year by undersrradoaUa of Carnetrie Imtltuto of Technology. Entered in the Pittsburgh Post Office as aecond-clasa matur.
THE STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF--------
BUSINESS MANAGERMANAGING EDITOR
PLAID EDITOR--------------
NEWS EDITOR--------------
Harry D. Kolb 
Edward Steiner 
John P. Alms
EXCHANGE EDITORALUMNI EDITOR---------
-Edward E. McDonald____________Nancy Sloan
_Mary Hauser
From the Fence
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Vincent McBride ZorcldaMazza 
ASSIGNMENT EDITOR 
Howard Maxwell 
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Roy Grant Betty Preller
Julius Halpern Dolly Allison 
Tohn Ginder Ruth Phillips^
Harry Howcr Henrietta Steinberg 
John Ladd Christine Lcighou
JUNIOR ALUMNI EDITOR
Mary Townsend
BUSINESS STAFF 
_ . i, i John KronenbergJunior Managers- j Jamc5 Stahi
,. . , , X F. RivetAssistants------------j I.,Fritz
CIRCULATION STAFF 
Manager _____________Robert Frank
Assistant Managers-} ^^-Jones
(J. M. Averbach
----------< C. Chadwick
I J. S. ShrrahStaff.
Editor------------------
Womans Editor___________Gertrude Novak
ATHLETICS
_J. Michaelsbn
.Elizabeth Lilley 
J. Bronson 
J. Lowes 
G. Myers 
J. Halferty
PLAID STAFF
J. S. Geycr E. E. McGannon
J. H. Sansonetti ,A. J. Clough, Jr. 
REPORTERS
J. Hiltz 
L. Karges 
G. McRoberts 
J. Drury 
S. Dancoff 
J. Adams 
J. Dcakin 
E. Stankey 
G. Burgan 
J. Donglass 
I. Williamson 
M. Frank 
A. Iienzi
D. Schatzcl 
R. Benedict
E. Gamble 
George Anderson 
J. S. Minnotte 
M. Dougherty
B. Bates 
L. Conlin 
R. Saxton 
J. Ritzel 
G. McCormack 
G. Rose 
K.Ferrick
A New Student Council
.Tonight the group -which will comprise the student 
council for the coming school year will hold its first meet
ing. Iyast Tuesday at a joint meeting with the retiring 
council this new group definitely assumed the responsibility 
of-conducting the student government for the coming year.
 The incoming members of the student council are en
titled to congratulations for the distinction which they 
merit as representatives of their class. If these persons 
can but retain the conception that they are representing 
a group and not an individual, then the success of their stu
dent government is assured.
The retiring council may feel rather proud of their 
combined achievements and fine co-operation, both of which 
have done much to strengthen the position of the student 
council. A goodly measure of their success is no doubt a 
result of the fine judgment displayed by the retiring pres
ident of student council.
.. A number of recommendations have been presented to 
the incoming council regarding next years activity. One 
decision dealing with freshman regulations changed the 
period of enforcement to the shortest ever attemptedan 
eight weeks period being suggested. No doubt a short in
tensive apprenticeship by the plebes will prove more suc
cessful than the present inefficient method. Two years 
ago when plebe regulations were in vogue only until 
December the enforcement was carried on fairly well. The 
latest plan is not to be considered as a step towards aboli
tion, for such a measure is quite contrary to the desires of 
practically every member-of the council. A more perfect 
adjustment between the period of scheduled enforcement 
and student support is all that is desired.
. With regard to revising the financial scheme for 
the Womans Junior Prom, it can only be said that drop
ping the antiquated system of making a two year payment 
at one time, is a measure which is long overdue. The 
graduating class in Margaret Morrison fortunately leaves 
a surplus which will be applied to financing the transitional 
year if, the plan is adopted. Other recommendations sug
gested several simplifications of the election system and a 
possible revival of student assemblies.
. With the new council resides the obligation of proper
ly deciding these and other probliems which will arise 
during the coming yearwe wish them every success.
IC.
Campus Additions
Publication of the recent list of proposals for work to 
be done on the campus during the summer months has 
directed attention to the fact that several other minor items 
should be considered as they also represent immediate 
needs.
The large space on the lower level between Machinery 
 Hall and Engineering Ilall should be graded and covered 
with cinders, thus releasing a parking space sufficient for over one hundred cars. This space while partly in use at 
present would suffice to minimke the present parking problem.
The matter of ventilation in some buildings, especially Machinery Hall, should be carefully checked and new in
stallations made if necessary. During the year classes have been held in rooms of this one building when the 
room temperature exceeded 90 degrees. Health authorities would never permit such a condition to exist in other public 
buildings. Other suggestions include increasing or at least properly equipping^ the student club rooms, and securing the additional tennis courts as promised among the plans for summer work made last year at this time.
IC.
Final ExamsI
Contributions
An unfortunate misprint in last weeks issue perhaps 
conveyed the opinion that contributions along the editorial Vein were not to be solicited this year. On the contrary 
it is exceedingly important that such letters be written by those persons who have some worthwhile comment or 
criticism to offer. Expression of opinion in this manner "lias been more infrequent at Carnegie than at a great many 
Other colleges. All signed contributions will be given proper consideration and space reserved for their publication.
IC.
Howdy, Yo All!
All those to whom these presents 
may come, Greetings, for the last 
time. You are reading the last effort 
from the pen that has filled this 
column during the past weeks, so 
maybe youll read to the end this 
time. Frank Foote, in closing this 
column a year ago, gave a resume 
of his j'ears writings. We .wont do 
that, because theres no use in open
ing up old wounds. Well take just 
a few parting shots, and, as Ben 
Bcrnic says, We hope you like it.
The past week brought letters to 
all the seniors from their department 
heads, inviting seniors and parents 
to come see the places where the 
seniors "did the major part of their 
college work. If most of the gradu
ates wanted to be really honest they 
would take their parents in some
what this manner: Dutch Eyth, to 
the Bowl; Joe Cooke, to the'Student 
Council office; Bob Rinakcr, to Mel
lon Hall ; Pete Weitzcl, to Mar
garet M. ; Larry Baugh, to the Wil
liam Penn ; Dave Genter, to the. 
Rifle Range; Ed McCloskey, to Haw
thorne Hall ; Joe Chamberlain, to the 
Phi Psi sleeping quarters; Charlie 
Carter, to Cleveland; John Drcshar, 
to Dragon meeting; Ted Rosenzweig, 
to Birch Hall ; Marve Fox, to the 
stage in the Union; Betty Steele, to 
thrones and places of prominence; 
Will Worland, to meetings of any 
kind; George Nease, to the Gym; 
Jim Sprigg, to West \rirginia; Joe 
Herbst, to the haberdasher, and Phil 
Magnuson, no place at all.
A new college radici is under
way at Carnegie. Somebody is cutting 
the uncancclled portions off of used 
postage stamps and pasting* them to
gether to form good stamps. Dean 
Greene is out for the culprit. Will 
Worland says lie of tin thought of 
it, but never had the nerve to try 
it. Maybe we haw a future Al 
Capone in our midst. Anything may 
happen to even your best friends. We 
have recently learned that one of 
the boys who graduated from high 
sdhool with us is a- pyromaniac of 
large scope, and another is a bigtime bootlegger. Theres nothing like 
education to bring out zvliats in 
you.
One of the customs among fra
ternity men at our institution is the 
Senior Ducking. It consists in the 
underclassmen properly ducking the 
graduating brothers in cold, and nonetoo-clcan, ^vater. The. custom has 
spread somewhat from fraternities. 
Some of the boys dormitories have 
accepted it, while Mellon Hall joined 
the ranks last year.
The forms of ducking arc -mimcrotis. The Betas have the simple 
method of taking the graduate in 
the back-yard and directing a hose 
stream on him, somewhat after the 
manner of zealous firemen. The 
Sigma Nus have a system of sink
ing the seniors in the ancient tub in 
their back yard. They perform the 
act after' dark, because the victim 
hasnt exactly all his clothes on. 
The Delts iise the upstairs, the Satur
day night, tub for their graduates, 
who are also in the altogether. (Bob 
Rinakcr confounded the sinkers the 
other night by turning off the water 
in the cellar and hiding the key. The 
Phi Kaps carry the victim down the 
back stairs to the .cellar tub. - (Not 
the laundry-tubs, Alex!) They- arc 
having quite a problem at present 
figuring out how to get Leonard 
Schnupp down the narrow gage 
stairs without his feet sticking. A 
hoist out the back window was the 
latest suggestion. We dont know the 
Mellon Iiall method, but we imagine 
a glass of water is poured on the 
victims head.
The tennis team on their recent 
Eastern trip came close to spending 
their spare time in the Philadelphia 
jug. While dining in a Chinese 
restaurant, of the dinc-and-dance 
order, the boys felt like dancing 
Although the houserulcs forbade cut
ting tables, or dancing 'with girls 
from other tables, Bill Gesling at
tempted the feat. The manager 
promptly gathered all his Chinese 
waiters around him and prepared to 
storm, the tennis table. Ed McCloskeys bristling mustache must have 
disheartened them, for they , thought 
better of the plan. The old familiar 
revenge of doubling the bill was 
used instead by the irate manager. 
Famous ll'ords by Famous Profs:
"After you finisci that Ill have 
something else for you to do.
Pace-Setter Copeland. 
Splinters ******
The front line of the dandelion 
army has advanced to the Hut, leav 
ing behind it  a desolate waste of 
broken and dying dandelions 
Perhaps they will destroy the Hut, 
while theyre at it, so a new librar}' 
will have to be built . . . Jeff Burke, 
our dramat-fighter, and Maxie 
Schmelling, the heavy-weight champ, 
wear berets . . . Harry Kolb, the new 
Editor, spent a week-end in Oberlin, 
Ohio, recently . . . You seniors bet
ter send 3'our invitations out soon, 
so that your friends will have lots of 
time to buy presents . . . After 
nocturnal pillow-fight recently, the
MAXINE M. KELLY
Will Open a 6-Weeks Summer Course 
Figure Faking and Fashion Art
Date: July 6th  For Details Phone or Write
<J502 FIFTH AVENUE Schenley 6575
(Continued from Page One)
cram ! Cramming is dangerous only 
when it.Jakes so much time that it 
interferes with the health. Nervous 
breakdowns due to mental overwork 
arc. practically unknown in spite of 
popular belief,; but occur as the re
sult of worry rather than mental 
exertion.
Professor Shaffer:
"In regard to cramming, the ob
ject of which is simply to pass the 
final examination, the method of 
study should vbe modified. It is ad
visable, instead of waiting until the 
very night before the final examina
tion, to study several daj's in ad
vance. If you have set aside five 
hours for cramming on one subject, 
it will be more prudent tostudy one 
hour a day for the five days previous 
to the examination rather than five 
hours the night befo.re.
Another point of efficiency, which 
psychology supports, is to alternate 
the studying periods over the dif
ferent subjects. That is, instead of 
spending six hours in one sitting on 
single subject, alternate several 
subjects in the same period of time.
But for permanent retention of 
the material there should be rather 
soon after the original learning an 
intensive review followed by further 
reviews during the semester spaced 
at increasingly wider intervals. This 
is the best means of combatting the 
curve of  forgetting of psychology/ 
Professor Trinks:
The, best time to begin to stud}' 
for a final examination is in Septem
ber. Do your work throughout the 
semester and you need never f6ar a 
final examination. Crammingno. Re
viewingyes.
Dr. Ross:
The best way to prepare for a 
final examination is to begin at the 
first of the semester by preparing the 
initial assignment. This process, if 
continued with each . subsequent as
signment, . gives very good results in 
the final ' examination.
The next best procccdurc - is to 
refer to the fraternity filcs'Tor copies 
of all examinations, given in the. last 
six years. Prepare answers to all "of 
these, do some reviewing if possible, 
and meet your fate calmly.
Oh, so you want to know how to
MUST WE KEEP ON DREAMING?
REPRINTED FROM AN OLD TARTAN
prepare for an examination if you 
do not have time enough to master 
the material? Well, you are now 
getting into the field of the occult 
sciencesyour only hope is a good 
magician!-
Professor McCullough:
I am not in fayor of cramming 
the night before the final examina
tion. If the student has done his 
work well day by day throughout 
the semester, a very brief review 
will sufficc. Of course the duration 
and type of the review depends upon 
the subject: descriptive material; such 
as history or economics. usually re
quiring more time and effort to 
master than such subjects as physics 
or mechanics. But it is of primary 
importance that good daily work 
should be done during the semester.
Pop Utcch:
Above all do not bring in 12 
answers to 10 questions as a lad did 
four years; ago.' We gave the paper 
a grade of 120 per cent, but when 
Mr. Doscy Was later confronted by 
the student who wanted to know if 
some little mistake had not been 
made in writing down the grade, 
Doscy informed him that there was. 
He crossed out the 1 and the 2 and 
said, Now its right. 
FORTY-TWO SENIORS
(Continued from Page One)
Charles H. Gibson, T uskegec In
stitute.
Walter A. Jameson, Mt. I ebanon 
Public Schools.
Theodore F. Rosenzweig, Vandergrjft Public Schools.
Philip R. Magnuson, Journal 
Press, Inc.
Pennington R. Watson, Baker, 
Jones, and Hausauer.
Allan F. Crawford, Crawford 
Press.
Frank .R. Sloan, Sloan Printing 
Company.
William J. Linkert, Chain Belt 
Company.
In addition to the above, a num
ber of men will be seen oh the 
Carnegie campus next year. Pro
fessor Trinks will keep L. M. Weed 
in his  department as- an assistant, 
and Dr. James tells us that the 
following will have fellowships: R. 
H. Herter, J. Ii. McAtecr, and W. 
J. Svirbely. Several other seniors 
have scholarships or fellowships 
under consideration.
Several of the Civil Engineers 
made high grades in the Civil Ser
vice examinations, and have good 
prospects of" making connection 
with the government. Most of the 
other seniors- have lines out and 
many have fair chances of obtaining 
work in the near future.
The demand for Industrial Edu
cation graduates continues, and 
enough positions are on hand to 
supply all the seniors for next 3rcar. 
Several of the men will do coach
ing along with their teaching. '''The 
continued growth of Vocational 
education in the past few years has 
kept the demand quite constant 
for men to go into the teaching 
profession.
Those seniors who have not yet
Phi Psis spent the morning clean
ing feathers from neighboring porches, 
lawns, trees, bushes and sidewalks 
. . . Tom Coulter was elected 1932 
track captain by unanimous vote, in
cluding his own . . . We cant blame 
him . . 7 Leonard Schnupp and Tank 
Highberger, who have been 23 jrears 
old all during their stay at Car
negie, are going to sell their secret 
of 3routhfulncss after graduation . . . 
Were those leather-covered programs 
we ordered from Mortar Board simp
ly a hoax? . . . Its now time to 
close the book . . . Frank Foote 
sends a' post-card from N."Y., say
ing that W. Winchell and O. O. 
McIntyre sent'; word that we have 
a great future, in Electrical Engi
neering ... We cant even agree 
with that . . . Anyway, if weve in
terested and pleased 3-011 even a lit
tle, were happy . . . Its been a 
pleasure.
So Long, Eriends
FOR YOUR COMING FORMALS
Rent the Latest Style Hand-Tailored Tuxedo Suit 
and Accessories From Us.
ALL SIZESPERFECT FIT
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Day Phone: NjKht Phone;
ATLANTIC 9595 EVERGLADE 0918-J
lined up a position are urged, to' 
keep in constant touch with the 
Bureau of Recommendations durthe summer, so that any posi
tions which become available may 
be promptly filled. Those who have 
positions arc asked to forward their 
correct address to the Bureau as 
soon as they become permanently 
located.
A few opportunities for surhmcr 
employment will be available, chief
ly in the sales field. Anyone in
terested in sals work should see, 
either Miss'Merrill or Mr. Grau in 
the Bureau of Recommendations.
The Bureau also expects to have 
available a position for the sum
mer for a man to-act as a guide 
on bus tours. This requires some
one familiar with, the history of 
the country between , here and 
Washington, D. C., and someone 
who has had actual experience in 
such work is preferred.
A number of men have already 
been cmp^rcd, and there will be 
openings for more, in a house to 
house. canvass that is - being made 
in the Pittsburgh district. M29SI 
openings require men of good ap
pearance, address, and a legible 
handwriting.
There will be little opportunity 
for plant work this year, with the 
exception of a few juniors who may 
be taken on in a junior training 
course at some of the steel' plants.
HONORARIES HOLD
(Continued from Page One)
This is an all day stag for Scalp 
and Blade men from all the variou^ 
chapters and the graduate organ
ization.
Scarab
Scarab, the national professional 
architectural fraternit}r, held its 
formal initiation and dinner dance 
on Wednesday evening, May 20, 
1931.
The formal initiation took place 
at the Kappa Sigma house. The 
following men were initiated: Har
old Ahnfeldt, Samuel Bond, Allen 
Hall, Carl Maynard,. Gcorge.Northy, 
William Schlenke, and Thorton 
Young.
The dinner dance was held at the 
Pittsburgh Field Club following the 
initiation. Mr. and Mrs. Robert 
Schmertz were guests of honor.
Contribs
Shall Carnegie Tech Have An 
Activities Building?
I realize that much has been
said pro and con on this matter, 
but I cant help thinking .that one 
of the arguments offered against 
the erection of an activities build
ing, namely, the financi: 1 inability 
of the school is not really valid. 
It is said that the school board
does not want to spend more
money than strictly. neccssar3r, or 
account of the fact that the Car
negie Corporation will pa3r to our 
trustees on July 1, 1946, eight mil
lion dollars, provided the trustees 
secure by that time the sum of
four million dollars. As it is for
mulated in the agreement (and 
everybody can check this), Onethird of this amount may be / in 
buildings; the other two-thirds 
must be applied to endowment. 
The expenditure of a small part of 
the sum alrcad3r  secured would 
,not, in any case, diminish the to
tal amount on hand, coming under 
the heading of building.
The importance of an activities 
buildings is so evident that no ar
gument can logically b'c raised 
from that point. Shortage of. class 
rooms is already evidenced in all 
buildings, especially in night 
classes. It is so acute in some 
cases, that it has  bden announced 
that additions to the buildings 
presently erected are to be effect
ed this summer. As to whether 
club rooms are necessary or riot, 
I will let you judge for yourself. 
To wit, enter the Y club room on 
a Wednesday morning, for 
stance, around 9 a. m. In such 
conditions, and in such congested 
quarters, proper studying is prac
tically impossible.
The erection of an activities 
building would not only provt 
beneficiary to students, but also to 
the faculty. As the editorial of 
last Tuesday puts it "Club rooms, 
recreation rooms, an improved li
brary and centrally located offices 
for student activities arc a neces
sity.
Hardly will I see it in my stu
dent days, for I shall graduate in 
1932: But it would bring me con
siderable  pleasure, if this article 
has hastened the erection of the 
activities building b)r but one day.
I. J. IC.
Editor NoteIn connection with th above contribution the actual wording of the agreement with the Carnegie Corporation is published here.
"It should be of interest to the 
friends of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology to know that the Car
negie Corporation, of New. York, 
will, pay to the Trustees of the 
Institute of Technology on July 
1, 1946, eight million dollars, pro
vided we can secure the sum of 
four million dollars. In other 
words, for every dollar that is sub
scribed, we shall receive an addi
tional two dollars from the Cor
poration. One-third of this amount 
may be in buildings; the other 
two-thirds must be applied to- en
dowment. We cannot believe that 
the raising of four million dollars 
in seventeen 3-ears will be a diffi
cult task, but it is our desire that 
this, arrangement with the Car
negie Corporation shall be widely 
known so that our alumni and 
friends may realize that we are 
making plans 'for the future, and 
that we should like to add to this 
fund from 3'ear to 3rear
Thomas S.- Baker
About Other Campuses
Princeton's senior class has four 
;alutatorians, as that many men 
are tied for the highest average 
in the class. Only one will de
liver an oration at the commence
ment exercises, however.
Spring football practicc at Tem
ple Universit3- *is being conducted 
on the roof of one of the build
ings. A space 50 yards wide and 
61 yards long has been provided 
d a four foot railing set up to 
keep the candidates from falling 
off.
In order to promote .more inti
mate social contact between the 
men and women of Antioch Col
lege, Na special arrangement of tele
phone wires between the men's 
dorm and womens dorm has been 
introduced.
The University of California 
band is the first collegiate. organi
zation to appear with < lighted in
struments at a night game. Not only 
are all instruments lighted but the 
batons of the two drum majors, are 
also illuminated.
One of the things whicli added 
most to my houseparty was the 
sigh of two Sigma Phis tuxedoed 
and, I think, in top-hats,getting off 
a bit of tennis on the court at the 
side of their house about 6:30 Sat
urday morning. They were just 
tr3'ing to occup}r 'the time before 
their eight oclock classes.
A professor at the University of 
Chicago wears side whiskers and 
rides to the campus on a bicycle:
Three'students at the University 
of Alabama are living in a tent 
and cooking their own meals in 
an effort tp cut down expenses.
One thousand one hundred and 
fort\- couples attended the Mar
quette University Junior Prom. 
The reason? Coon-Sanders Nighthawks.
It costs exacth- 5S cents to cut 
a class at Southern Methodist Uni
versity and students doing so have 
wasted more than a half a million 
dojlars since the founding of the 
university 16 years ago.
A ruling made recently at the 
University of Michigan makes it 
unlawful for a student to - give 
rides to fellow students.
A written examination in tennis 
was rbccntl3r given at Williams: 
College to students taking pln-sical 
education.
Students living in one of the 
dormitories at the University of 
Georgia were recently warned that 
if they did not refrain from taking 
so many baths thc3r would be 
charged an extra fee.
Out at the University^of Colora:, 
do the students may be insured'1- 
against being called on in class.''. 
The rate varies with the course; 
and with the professor. If thestudent is called upon lie is paid 
double. Why -not turn this rack
et over to some of the uncmplo3'- 
cd? -
The first American college pa
per, called The Dartmouth Gazette, 
was published in 1810 at Dart
mouth College^
Students under eighteen years ol 
age arc not allowed out on the 
streets after 9 p. 111. at the University of Omaha.
bi used to get- a measurable effect) 
and the discovery of the fact that 
the effect was directly propprtional 
to the intensity of the magnetiza
tion in the ferro-magnetic materials 
that, he has thus far. investigated. 
The latter discovery is contrary to 
the previous assumption that the 
effect was proportional to the mag
netic field.
At the present, time Dr. Pugh is 
trying t6 ascertain whether or riot 
this proportionality between the 
Hall Effect and the intensity of 
magnetization holds under various 
conditions, such as the different 
heat treatments of iron and steel. 
As yet he is unable to release any 
information on this- particular re
search, but lie hopes to have some 
vpry interesting results to publish 
soon.
NEW STUDENT COUNCIL
DR. E. M. PUGH
Lowest 
Cost 
Home!
DURING these last hectic days, 
some of us arc badly in need of a 
good dollar-stretchcr. What with 
farewell parties and home-com
ing parties, a rigorous economy 
must be practiced someplace in be
tween. You can save a sizeable 
sum by going home the Greyhound 
way. Best of all youll have more 
fun.
Tech Agents 
MAXWELL and STOLTZFUS 
Boss Hall 301 SChenley 9070
For ReservatiiJns
OUND
(Continued from Paige One:) 
which was. purchased for him by 
Carnegie, and continued, to experi
ment with the various phases; of 
magnetism.
Experiments At Carnegie 
While here Dr. Pugh has been 
assisted in his research by T., W. 
Lippert, student at this school. 
Among his accomplishments in re
search at Carnegic^arc a method of 
measuring the Hall Effect in large 
bars (previously thinsheets had to
(Continued from Pajre One)
Arts Senate; Mary Stepliany, vice 
president of Arts Senate; Allan 
Davis, treasurer of Arts. Senate; 
Jane Croyle, president of jkf. M. 
Senior class; Lois McGregor, rep
resentative of Margaret Morrison 
Senate;, Kay Wholcy, treasurer of 
Margaret Morrison Senate.
Those members retained from 
the retiring council include Harry 
Kolb from. Engineering, James Cor
rigan from Industries and Edward 
.Reister from Arts, cach being 
senior representatives for this 3car.
Inasmuch as the senior repre
sentative and president of Mar
garet Morrison Senate are one and 
the same person, it was recom
mended that another senior repre
sentative be elected in Margaret 
Morrison to serve on the Council 
for next year. It was decided that 
Edward Shiner, a night school stu
dent, be awarded an activities key 
for his work with the band.
TIME-WORN ADVICE 
(Cortmued from Pa?e OneT 
insultpeople arc easily insulted.) 
But dont offend them by doing 
things of which you know they 
dont approve. This is one of the 
ver3r first laws of good tastethat 
of avoiding strife, even though you 
may be entirely out of sympathy 
with them or think them feeble
minded.
Conformity: Try not to be so 
individualistic that you become ob
noxious. However, take this ad
vice with a grain of salt and dont 
become one of the passive herd.
Cultivate Good Taste: Good
taste is hard to define, but it is 
used here in its broadest sense, 
Without it the wisest man is a 
clown or a 3rokel. Cultivate the 
things that are really worthwhile. 
But-if you prefer jazz to a sym
phony dont pretend otherwise; ad
mit it,, and try to like the symphon3r. For- if 3^011 pose 3rou will 
surely be found outeven though 
3'our best friends may not tell you. 
Simply be natural, while trying to 
improve yourself in . accordance 
with the best standards. . 
(The male portion of the read
ers need continue no farther.)
The majority of graduates,/so 
statistics tell us, end ,up with the 
same occupationthey eventually 
wind up with Home Econorhics!
With the assumption of these re- 1 
sponsibi lities. there arc certain 
things that a girl must know about 
the strangp crcaturc callcd Man. 
If any of 3rou have ever watched 
the actions of a little boy you have 
a very good idea of what the 
grown man is like. You have seen 
the little bojr stand on his head or 
cat worms for the amusement of 
the little girl; and it still holds 
true, that most, of the big tilings 
in-the world arc done for the pur
pose of amusing a woman. It 
therefore depends upon what things 
you arc amused by; your approval 
or disapproval will leave its effect, 
for no man likes to be laughed at 
or .scolded, but he will always suc
cumb to flattery. Therefore, what 
you encourage will iitftiicncc what 
goes on in the world.
COMMENCEMENT BALL
(Continued from Page One) 
member of Dragon, Phi Kappa so
cial fraternity, and of the footballj 
team.
In previous 3rcars the graduating 
class spent several days in a pro-j 
gram of sotial events. Since it 
was discovered that these affairs)
were often detrimental to the .sen
iors interests, it was decided three 
years ago to limit the celebration./ 
to a few affairs. This has become 
the rule since that time. As the 
Commencement Ball is an open 
ali-Carncgic dance, it is hoped that 
many students will take this op-j 
portunity and enjoy the last event 
of the season with the graduating 
class.
EUROPE and
Back .. .$185
Sell Dad on the idea! United States 
Lines makes it so inexpensive. "Tourist 
Third fares range from $185 round trip on the palatial REPUBLIC to $231 
on the mighty LEVIATHAN, 5 day 
speed to Europe. Remarkable values 
also on tho flyers AMERICA and 
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Travel with the collegc crowd. Last 
year on one sailing of the LEVIATHAN 
60 colleges were represented. This year 
the Harvard-Yalc track teams sail July 
1st on the GEORGE WASHINGTON 
for the Oxford-Cambridge meet.
Come on along! Enjoy fine food ..  
comfortable staterooms . . . movies . . 
sport* on big sun decks... nightly dances 
to the rhythm of real college bands from 
Yale, Harvard, California, Pennsyl
vania, Ohio State, Virginia, Columbia, 
Fordham, Maryland, Penn State and 
other colleges.
Send at once for the booklet/TOURIST 
THIRD CABIN TO EUROPE arid 
make reservations before the rush starts. 
Official fleet of the Intercollegiate 
Alumni Associations 
ConiultYour Local Steamihip Agont or
UNITED STATES 
LINES
W. W. Davidson, General Agent 
431 Oliver Avc., Pittsburgh, Atlantic 3833
THE
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
Is Buying Used Books At The
SKIBO INN
and will rernain open through EXAMS until Summer School 
You may either have CASH or a receipt payable in the fall. The receipt 
will of course pay far more than a cash payment possibly can.
