I FRESHMAN TEA DANCE j 
j 4:00-6:00 MARCH 20 j
IN THE UNIONaruBgif tartan
WOMENS JUNIOR PROM
MARCH 219:00-2:00
WM. PENN URBAN ROOM
VOL. XXIV, No. 23.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1930.
IT ALL DEPENDS ON YOUVOT
Scholarship Benefit 
Campus Ticket Sale 
Continues This Week
Cornelia Skinners Sketches 
Offer Attraction At 
Benefit
Tickets Are Now On Sale
Lavinia Holmes in Charge of 
Ticket Sales on the 
Campus
The ticket 'sale for the Womens 
Scholarship Organization benefit 
opened on the campus last Wed
nesday and the sale will continue 
this week. On March 19, 20, and 
21, the stubs .can be exchanged for 
reserve seats in the Central build
ing. The prices are from 73c to 
.$2.00. Orchestra seats will be two 
dollars, first balcony $2.00 and $1.50 
and second balcony, $1.00 and 75c.
Abraham Lincoln expounded the 
maxim about not being able to fool 
all the people all the time, but he 
said nothing about the ability to 
entertain, to please all the people 
 all the time. Cornelia Otis Skinner, 
the charming daughter of Otis 
Skinner, who comes here on April 
1, to the Carnegie /.Music Iiall, to 
present her original' Character 
Sketches, has achieved this happy 
state. At least if one is to judge 
-by the dramatic critics.
If Miss Skinner had won the 
praise of the critics in only big 
cities, one might question her uni
versal appeal. But Miss Skinner 
seems to evpke the most . enthusi
astic eulogies from the critics in 
little cities as well as great cities, 
cities in the West as well as cities 
in the East.
Miss Skinner left the legitimate 
stage only about two years ago. 
Immediately her success as an en
tertainer was poronounccd and this 
season her list of bookings is prob
ably the largest, of any entertainer 
in tlie country, No longer is Miss 
Skinner thought of as the charm
ing daughter of Otis .Skinner." 
Cornelia Otis Skinner has added 
lusife to a great nanic of the theater 
carrying it to another branch of en
tertainment with the most brilliant 
results.'
R. O. T. C. Officers 
To Fill Vacancies
Several new appointments in the 
lists of cadet officers of the R.-'O. 
T. C. regiment were made to fill 
vacancies created by the commis
sioning of several seniors in the 
Officers Reserve Corps.
Robert Johnson, Captain Adju
tant during the fall and winter, has 
been made Major of the Second 
Battalion, Major W. I. Smith hav
ing received his commission. Thomas 
A. Connelly, former regimental sup
ply officer, will fill the position va
cated by Mr. Johnson, while D. A. 
Cuthbert replaces Mr. Connelly as 
regimental supply officer with the 
commission of Captain. The first 
lieutenants of each company, who 
will act as platoon leaders, are to 
. be appointed in the near future.
Plans for spring drill include two 
regimental drills: the first will be a 
parade on exhibition night, April 25; 
the second a review during Campus 
Week, given in honor of Dr. Baker, 
at which various awards earned dur
ing the year will be presented.
The usual competitive drill between 
the companies of the two battalions 
will probably be held during Campus 
Week.
Plebes Giving Tea-Dxxnce 
Thursday In The Union
A .tca-dance, given by the united 
freshman classes of Carnegie, 
wiH be held in the Union on 
Thursday afternoon, March 20, 
from 4 to 6 oclock. The dance 
committee has secured Jerry McGeorgc's Carnegians, an excel
lent local orchestra.
This dance, which is open to 
all students of Carnegie, was 
arranged to give the Freshman 
class an opportunity of becoming 
acquainted. Tickets may be se
cured from various members of 
the Freshman class or at the 
door for the small cost of 25 
cents for women and 50 cents 
for men.The committee includes Charles 
Shatvct, Aulma Blessing, Marian 
McNar.y and- John Kronenbcrg.
Student Council 
Ratifies Program 
Of Carnival Week
Budget For Scholarship As
sociation Accepted and 
Election Day Set
The approval of a petition from the 
Editor of the Carnegie Tartan for 
the awarding of special activity 
keys each year to selected mem
bers of the Tartan Staff was sanc
tioned by the Student Council at its 
regular meeting on' March 11. 
These keys, of which there shall 
be no more than five each year, arc 
intended to award those on the 
Staff, Senior or Juniors, who have 
worked faithfully and who have not 
otherwise received special recogni
tion.
Among other important business 
considered at this meeting was the 
selection of April 24 at a tentative 
Election. Day for all colleges and 
the approval of the budget for the 
Women's Scholarship Association. 
The Council also ratified the pro
gram for Campus Carnival Week, 
(Continued on Page Four)
Benefit Bridge To
Be Given By Orfeo
At the regular supper and busi
ness meeting held by Orfeo, the 
Womens Musical Honorary So
ciety, last Wednesday evening at 
5:30 in the 'Womens Club Rooms 
in the Gym, plans were discussed 
for a benefit bridge. Tickets for 
this bridge to be held by Jhe 
sorority on Saturday afternoon, 
April 5, at 2 oclock in the Recrea
tion .Hall of Margaret Morrison, 
may be obtained from members of 
the society.
Miss Rose Aiello and Miss Laurene 'Eisman were'-in charge of the 
entertainment at the meeting. Miss 
Betty Bates gave a review of the 
musical events of the past two 
weeks, while Miss Laurene Eisman 
presented a schedule of the inter
esting occurrences that will take 
I place within the coming two., weeks.
Recent Survey Shows Success Of
Industrial Education Graduates
Teacher training courses in shop 
subjects and mechanical drawing 
have been offered at Carnegie since 
the founding of the institution. De
grees have been granted in the De
partment of Industrial Education 
since 1911. A survey of positions 
held by graduates and former stu
dents of the dcpartmen has recent
ly been completed by Professor 
Clceton, who is head of the depart
ment. Some very significant facts 
which will be considered in plan
ning future work for students in 
these fields have been secured.
The majority of older graduates 
held supervisory positions in publ:c schools, h .-mal r~h - !s, colleges 
and universities. Many of the
graduates .of recent years will be
come supervisors if history of
earlier graduates repeats itself.
Seventy-five per cent of the grad
uates since 1911 are still engaged 
in educational work of some type. 
While graduates are scattered from 
Haiti to California, the majority 
aic located in Pennsylvania. The 
number of former Tech .udcnts 
teaching shop and drawing courses 
in the Pittsburgh District is great
er than the number trained by any 
other single institution.
What appears to be the most 
important finding is that many in
dustrial education men serve as 
vocational counselors or engage in 
work in the employee training divi
sions of industrial plants. To meet 
a growing demand for college 
trained men for positions in these 
fields, the curriculum in Industrial 
Education has been modified to in(Continued on Page Four)
COMBINED GLEE CLUBS 
TO GIVE HOME CONCERT 
AND DANCE APRIL 11
Concert to Be Held in Little 
TheaterDance in 
Union
The appointment of the commit
tees for the Plqine Concert and 
Dance of the Mens and Womens 
Glee: Clubs, April 11, has been 
made by Wilford Worland during 
he past week. W. A. Jameson, 
first assistant manager of the Mens 
Glee Club and a member of the 
musical honorary, the Phi Mu Al
pha, has been appointed chairman 
of ihe Concert Committee and lie 
will be assisted by Nancy Sloan, 
Mary Farb&ugh, Tom Young, and 
Harry Lyons. Sterling iSmeltzer, 
also first assistant .manager of the 
M.ens -Glee Club, has been selected 
to head the Dantie Committee 
which will consist of Peg. Hcrtzer,- 
Dorothy Stabbc, George Eherman, 
and' D. F. Fowler. The Publicity 
Committee will consist of Bernard 
Apple, Gertrude Novak, and John 
Ginder.
The program of the concert will 
consist of vatious numbers by the 
two Glee Clubs, Land Sighting 
by Grieg, which has ' been chosen 
as the number to be sung jointly 
by both clubs, a mock opera by 
Jie Mens Glee Club, various in
strument novelties and a chalk 
talk. This concert is held in the 
Little Theater and tickets are dis
tributed free. The dance in the 
mon will follow the concert.
Carnegie Tankers Down Wash-Jeff 
To End Schedule
While closing the swimming sea
son las^t week, Carnegies natators 
molested the waters of W. & J. 
by defeating the Presidents for the 
second time this season.. The 
proverbial bacon, .surely rancid by' 
now, that our boys brought home 
is found, not in Coach Riscdorphs 
suitcase, but in the final score of 
43 to 23. Although we cannot ac
tually placc our itngcr on it, we 
must agree that it represents a fair 
size chunk of meat in fishing cir
cles, and could easily outweigh 
some of our previous defeats.
In this meet the Tartan tankers 
took five of the seven firsst places. 
Captain Sangster kicked himself 
into a first in the breast stroke, 
and was immediately followed by 
Looney. Ed<wards swam a good 
100 yards^in winning his race. He 
also copped-second in the 40 yard 
free style, and assisted in winning 
the relay. Shafer won. the 220, 
while Easterbrook placed third in 
this event. As per usual Fuller and 
Basic r plunged away with the diving honors.
The success of the trip was part(Continued on Page Two)
United Typothetae 
Of America Sponsors 
June Conference Here
A tentative program has been 
drawm up for the ninth annual Con
ference on Printing Education to 
be.held at Carnegie Tech on June 23-25 this summer.
The United Typothetae of Amer
ica, which has been "sponsoring 
these conferences, has held the last 
three at this school since, the U. 
T. A. School of printing affiliated 
with the department at Carnegie Tech.
The program, which is only ten
tative, at this time, will begin with 
registration on Monday morning at 
9 a. m. L. H. Dennis will be the 
presiding. chairman at the opening 
session, with Director Jewett of 
the College of Industries, Frank 
M. Leavitt, Associate Superintend
ent of Pittsburgh Public Schools, 
and Dr. C. B. Connelley, member 
of the Board of Public Education 
and City Councilman of Pittsburgh, 
greeting the conference.
The Monday afternoon session 
will be devoted to Art and Print
ing, having three prominent, speak
ers with Otto W. Fuhrmann as 
chairman. At 7:30 p. m. on Mon
day a dinner' meeting will be held 
with Mr. Hartman presiding.
Tuesday morning will be devoted 
to subjects on Teacher Training 
with Merritt W. Haynes acting as 
chairman. On Tuesday afternoon 
five speakers will talk on the rela
tion of printing and education to 
(Continued on Page Three)
HERE IS THE PROGRAM
ThursdayCoronation and the Coronation Ball.
FridayCountry Fair (Fraternities and Dormitories), Honorary 
Fraternity Calls. Welding of the Chain. Burying of Plebe Regulations. 
Highland Fling (Costume Ball.)
SaturdaySweepstakes Finals. R. O. T. C. Review. The Cabaret 
Dancc. Tennis and Track Events. Carnival Show in' the 'Evening.
The Committee has worked hard! !
Executive Action depends on your reaction! /
This is an official vote sponsored jointly by the Ad
ministration and the Student Council.
Administrative action will be taken Fridayit will be 
favorable if your vote is favorableand vice versa.
Your decision decides the issue for this year and future 
years alike.
VOTE IMMEDIATELYStudent Council can go no fur
ther without your help.
VOTE! ! VOTE! ! VOTE! !
Although little publicity has been given on the proposed revival of 
a Spring Carnival, the Student Council Committee has been hard at, 
work, and, contrary to the general campus opinion, it has received 
much favorable support from the Administration. The outstanding ques
tion, which has withheld official action is whether or not the Students 
themselves actually want and will participate in a Spring Festival. In 
order to determine campus interest the Student Activities Committee 
and the Executive Committee of the Student Council at a joint meeting 
last Sunday agreed to conduct jointly a poll today from 11:30 to 5:00, 
tomorrow from 9:30 to 5:00 and Thursday from 9:30- to 1:30. Printed 
cards will 'be available for signature in the foyer of the Central Build
ing. The cards will carry the following three paragraphs:
I will support a 1930 Carnegie Carnival on May 9 and 10 to the 
extent of being present at a majority of the day events scheduled.
I will do my part towards helping the Carnival Committee of the 
Student Council make the occasion creditable and successful.
I hereby agree to purchase a tag for the Carnival when they arc 
placcd on sale.
(Signed)*---------------------1-----------------------------
Students name.
If you want a Spring Carnival it is surely worth the time and 
energy to' walk to the Central Building to cast your ballot. Do not 
depend on others to vote?vote- yotirsclf.
CWEN CONVENTION TO
BE IN PITTSBURGH
Pitt Chapter To Be Plostcss 
On April 4-6 With the 
Tech Owens Aiding
Tile national convention of 
Cwens, the womens sophomore 
honorary, will be held in Pittsburgh 
April 4 to 6, and will be attended 
by two' or .more delegates from 
every chapter. The Pitt Cwens 
who will act as hostesses, wi,ll be 
assisted by the Carnegie chapter.
The activities of' the different 
chapters will be discussed at the 
convention. Methods of organiza
tion, of earning money, and of taki-g in new members will be the 
topics of the conferences, and an 
example of. a model initiation will 
also be given. During the conven
tion, the national officers for the 
coming year will be clcctcd. The 
present national president, Mar
garet Hall, is a junior at Pitt.
The girls will be entertained Fri
day, Ap'ril 4, by' Dean Green at a 
b 'dg'c party. Conferences will be 
held at Heinz House on Saturday 
morning-and afternoon on the Pitt 
campus, and in the evening a for
mal banquet will be given by the 
Pitt chapter.
Pi Delta Epsilon 
Meeting Thursday 
To Name President
In order to elect a president and 
to choose delegates to an annual 
national convention to be held at 
Penn State during the first week in 
April, the local* chapter of the Pi 
Delta Epsilon will hold a meeting 
at the Sigma Phi Epsilon house on 
Thursday. Though the Pi Delta 
Epsilon does not usually elect its 
president at this time the office 
has been left vacant as the result 
of its former president, Tom.Brown, 
leaving school.
At the meeting to Be held Thursdajr the society will discuss the 
problem of defraying-the expenses 
of its delegates on their trip to 
Penn State. Plans to hold a high 
school journalistic convention will 
also be discussed.
The Pi Delta Epsilon is a na
tional journalistic honorary frater
nity with chapters in most of the 
prominent schools in the country. 
Those who have done meritorious 
work on the Carnegie publications 
constitute its membership. The aim 
of the fraternity is to raise the 
standard of all student publications 
on the campus.
Dr. Heinroth To Deliver
Series Of Lenten Talks
A series of Lenten talks arc 
being given each Saturday evening 
at 8:15 p. m. by Dr. Charles Hcinroth, director of music, the Music 
Hall Committee has announced. On 
March 22 Dr. Heinroth will use as 
his subject, "Is Opera Passe?" On 
March 29 he will speak on "Robert 
Schumann, the Heart of Roman
ticism. The Significance of the 
Variation Forms .will be discussed 
on April 5. The last lecture, The 
(Continued on Page Four)
ORATORICAL CONTEST 
TO BE TUESDAY, APRIL 1
Carnegie Tech Entrant For 
'National Contest Will 
Be Chosen
The preliminary contest for the 
selection of a representative from 
C.micgic Tech for the Sixth Na
tional Intercollegiate Oratorical 
Contest on the Constitution of the 
United States will be held on 
Tuesday, April 1, in the Assembly 
room of M. M. College at 5 o'clock 
according to arrangements com
pleted by Professor Leo T. Lawler 
of the English Department, campus 
representative in charge of the con
test. Any regularly enrolled under
graduate studqnt is eligible to par
ticipate. The speeches will be 
from 8 to 10 minutes in length.
The topics discussed must be one 
of the following list: The Consti
tution of the United States, Con
stitutional Ideas, Constitutional 
Duties, Constitutional Aspirations, 
The Constitution arid the Supreme 
Court, The Place of Constitutional 
Law in American Life, The Con
stitution and National Progress, 
The Constitution and Contempor
ary Executive Practices, The Con
stitution and American Economic 
(Continued on Page Four)
Dr. Baker To Speak 
Today At M.M.C.C. 
Quarterly Meeting
Dr. Baker will be the speaker at 
the Third Margaret Morrison Quar
terly Assembly, which is being held 
today at 11:30 in the Margaret 
Morrison Assembly Room. His 
subject is Women and Public 
Opinion."
In as much as this meeting is 
being held under the auspices of 
the Margaret Morrison members 
of Mortar Board, Katherine Ander
son, president of the organization, 
is to preside. She will be intro
duced by Virginia Morgan, who as 
president of the Senate ordinarily 
presides.
Since Margaret Morrison stu
dents so seldom have the oppor
tunity of hearing Dr. Baker, Mortar 
Board members have expressed the 
wish that as many students as pos
sible attend the meeting.
Iden Payne Is Now Here
As Our Guest Directro
B. Iden Payne, who was for
merly head of the Department of 
Drama, is now at Carnegie as guest 
director of this years Shakespear
ean production which will be 
"Love's Labor Lost and which 
will be produced -bout Eastertime.
It is the custom of the depart
ment to present annually one 
Shakespearean drama around the 
time of the anniversary of the fa
mous dramatists birth. Mr. Payne, 
(Continued on Page; Four)
DR. MEAD TO LECTURE 
TUESDAY EVENING ON 
BOULDER CANYON DAM
Talk on Wed. Evening to 
Be "Water Problems of 
Arid Region
Tuesday and Wednesday even
ings, March IS and 19, Dr. Elwood 
Mead, Commissioner for the Bureau 
of Reclamation of Washington, 
will give two lccturcs. The first 
one will be a discussion of "The 
Boulder Canyon Dam" and the 
second, on Wednesday evening, will 
deal with Water Problems of the 
Arid Regions." Both will be given 
in Room 104, Industries Building, 
at 8:30 P. M. Dr. Mead will illus
trate his lccturcs with colored 
slides and pictures.
Dr. Mead was ' professor of 
Chemical Engineering at Colorado 
Agriculture College from 18S3 to 
1884 and from 1886 to 1888. He 
was _ Chief of the Irrigation and 
Drainage Investigation Committee 
from 1897 to 1907. For nine years 
lie was professor of Institution and 
Practice of Irrigation at the Uni
versity of California. ,
Dr. Mead is not only an emin
ent lecturer but an able author. 
He has written various articles and 
reports on irrigation, engineering, 
and related subjects. Among his 
recent publications arc "Irrigation 
Institutions" and "Helping Men 
Own Farms. Dr. Mead has been 
made.a member, in both the Americal Society of Chemical En
gineers and the British institution 
for Chemical Engineers.
Seniors May Give Orders For Rings At Alumni Office
Seniors may placc orders for 
their degree rings at any time now 
at; the Alumni Office, Room 206, 
Gymnasium building. All graduates 
who arc receiving their degrees in 
June may order on these rings.
The rings arc made of ten carat 
gold, with a raised thistle dcsigli 
on the shank; the setting is a 
square cut amethyst around which, 
on the gold bezel, is placcd the 
name of the school. The gradu
ates initials, his school and year of 
graduation, are placcd on the in
side band without cost. The rings, 
which arc priced at $14 for the 
small size, and $16 for the large 
size, may be ordered from 9 to 12 
a. m., and 1 to 5 p. m. A deposit 
of $4 is required with each order.
Rings- ordered before May 15, 
and paid for in full at the time >f 
ordering will be held at the Alumni 
office until the morning of gradua
tion. Rings on which deposits are 
made will be mailed, C. O. D., from 
the factory after graduation. Other 
persons may send orders into the 
Alumni office at any time after 
graduation.
Interviews of Junior 
And Senior Engineers 
Week of March 17
Employment representatives will 
be at Carngie all this week, be
ginning March 17, to interview 
senior and junior engineers.
E. M. Boring of the Industrial 
Servic.e Department of the General 
Electric Company, Schenectady, N. 
Y., wishes to meet with various 
senior engineers today and to
morrow, March 18 and 19.
Today two representatives of the 
General Cable Corporation, Rome, 
N. Y., E. L. Andrew and R. A. 
Schatzel are here to interview any 
senior engineers.
Thursday, March 20,R. E. Parks, 
district manager of the Century 
Electric Company, Pittsburgh, will 
be here to meet with Electrical 
and Commercial Engineers.
Seniors of the Electrical Engin
eering Departments are invited to 
arrange meetings with E. R. Trcncrton, publicity manager of the 
Ohio Public Service Company, 
Cleveland, for Thursday, March 20. 
Mr. Trcncrton would also like to 
see any juniors who are interested 
in summer employment.
NOTICE
Campus photographs for fea
ture section of 1930 Thistle will 
kindly be sent to Sally Beatty, 
Margaret Morrison Building, be
fore March 22.
Women Hold Junior 
Prom at Urban Room; 
Art Giles To Play
ART GILES
Noted Economist 
Will Lecture On 
American Banks
Doubtful Outgrown Doc
trines of America Bank
ing" is His Subject
Professor Ray Burt AVcstcrficld, 
'from Yale University, will give two 
lectures on Marfcli 25 and 26, on 
"Sonic Doubtful Outgrown Doc
trines of American Banking." On 
Tuesday evening he will discuss 
"Banking Organization," and Wed
nesday, "Management of Banking 
Fields." No tickets of admission 
will be required and bpth lectures 
are to be given, in Room 104, In
dustries Building, at 8:30 p. m.
Profqxsor Westeriield was born 
in Ohio, and received his B.A. and 
M.A. degrees at Ohio Northern, 
University. In 1913 Yale Univer
sity granted him a Ph.D. degree. 
Sincc 1913 he has taught at Yale, 
and in 1922 he was made professor 
of political economy He took part 
in the statistical research conduct
ed by the Barson Statistical Com
pany during 1923-1924. lie was sent 
as a Wcstinghousc professor to 
the University of Rome, Italy, for 
the years 1927-192S.
Professor Wcstcrficlds books arc 
popular among business men and 
students. lie has written an intcr(Continucd on Page Four)
Honorary To Present Dr.
Heinroth As Guest Artist
The Phi Mu Alpha, national 
musical honorary, is intending to 
present a program of American 
music in the Little Theater within 
the next few- weckjs. Dr. Heinroth, 
an hohorary member and director 
of music at the Carnegie Institute, 
will be the guest artist of the eve
ning., The program will consist 
of both vocal and instrumental num
bers.
The Phi Mu Alpha gave a re
turn party to Orplieo, Women's 
Musical Honorary, Friday, March' 
14, in the Annex. The program 
consisted, of a card party, dance, a 
few novelties in the way of enter
tainment and a lunch. This .was 
the , first time the Annex was ever 
used, for an entertainment of that 
type.'
Doris Mather, M. M. Junior 
President, to Lead 
Promenade
160 Couples To Attend
Art Giles and His Everglade 
Club Orchestra to Play 
10 Till 2.
The most brilliant affair o the 
seasons social calcmhr, the Women,s 
Junior Prom, will be held  in the 
famous Urban room of. the William 
Penn Hotel next Friday evening. 
Doris Mather, pr.sident of the Mar
garet Morrison Junior Class, accom
panied by Robert Rinaker, will lead 
the Promenade. The best in dance 
music is to be furnished by Anti , 
Giles and I-Iis Everglade Club 
Orchestra.
Much credit is due the committee 
f . the efficient manner in which 
they made and carried out the ar
rangements for the Prom. The mem
bers of the Womens Junior Prom 
Committee are: Elsa Weber, Idii 
Campbell, Peg Jackson, Virginia, 
Steele, Peg Hcrtzler, Louise Gilbert, 
Imogcnc Schory, Betty Goodwin and 
Virginia Page.
In the receiving line will be Elsa 
Weber, chairman of the committee; 
Doris Mather, president of the Mar
garet Morrison Junior Class; Louisa 
Gilbert, vice-prcsidcnt of the Arts 
School Junior Class; President Baker, 
Dean Green, Dean Kccble and Dr, 
aiid Mrs. YVatkiiirf.
The cliaperoncs for the Prom arc!: 
Mr. and Mrs. R. V. Davis, Mr. and 
Mrs. H K. Kirk-Patrick, Miss Gracc 
L. Ware, and Miss E. M,, Winches
ter. The patrons and patronesses are: 
Dr. T. S! Baker, Mary Watson 
Green, Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Tarboll, 
Glctidijining Kc'cblc, Dr. and Mrs. 
Charles Watkins, Mr. and Mrs. W. 
E. . Mott and Mr. and Mrs. A. C. 
Jewett.
Music for dancing will be furnished 
by Art Giles and His Orchestra from 
ten (ill two. About midnight the 
Promenade will form at the door o 
(Continued on Page Four)
Social Work Juniors 
Hold Annual Banquet
The annual banquet of the Social 
Work Department of Margaret 
Morrison will be held on Saturday 
evening, May 3, the night follow
ing the Senior ball at the Garden 
Tea Room, Baum boulevard. The 
banquet was held there last year.
The banquet will be given in 
honor of the senior members of 
the club by the juniors, who will 
be assisted by the sophomore mem
bers. Other honor guests will in
clude Mrs. Burnett, Miss McBride, 
Miss Einert and Miss Condon, in
structors in the Social Service de
partment.
Invitations will be sent to alum
nae of this department to attend 
the banquet, the admission, for 
which will be $1.75 per person.
The banquet committee consists 
of the following members: General 
chairman, Ida Campbell; treasurer, 
Betty Sheekey; invitations, Made
line Half; program, Ruth Buckwalter; decorations and table ar
rangements, Pearle Goldberg.
The program committee is already 
working out an original entertain
ment to be presented by members 
of the club.
Student Council Conference For
Next Year Secured For Carnegie
The Mid-West Studertt Council 
Conference will be held at Carnegie 
ip 1931 as the result of a decision 
reached by representatives , at the 
conference held recently at Atlanta, 
Georgia.' Kenneth D.-Owens went 
a9, Uu: Carnegie representative and 
Bijccccdcd in bringing next year's 
conference here. Notre Dame, 
Northwestern, Ohio State and Flor
ida University are some of the 
members of this Mid-Western 
Council which met at Georgia 
Tech.
Athletic and Student Publica
tions were topics for discussion at 
the conference, at which many new 
plans were brought up and ex
changed among the different 
schools. Carnegie offered many 
suggestions for the handling of ac
tivities under student council coptrol. When the subject, Relation 
of Faculty and Students,", was of
fered for suggestions, an interesting 
discussion followed.
The plan of meeting at different 
schools each year met with ap
proval, for it will K<ve the con
ference an opportunity to study, 
close at hand, conditions existing 
in the different schools. Georgia 
Tech gave the conference a fa
vorable reception and an enter
taining time this year, and will 
play football here next year.
A Georgia Tech man, Newman 
Corker, was made president at the 
election held by the confcrence. 
George Benitz of Notre Dame was 
clcctcd vice president, and Kenneth 
Owens of Carnegie and Ray Ham
mond of Cincinnati were named 
for the executive board, with 
Owens as chairman.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 18. 1930.
CARNEGIE TANKERSThere is an oriental proverb that 
out of anger comes no .wise coun
sel. Anger should always be al
lowed to pass before taking action.
Scholarship Organization 
To Present Miss SkinnerA.X.A. Hold Meeting To 
Complete OrganizationClan NewsRIFLE NOTICE(Continued from Page One) 
ly1 due to the raft of cigars fur
nished by Fuller. Its hard to 
guess where lid got the weeds, hut 
we are sure they were of the cele
bration type. The usual mid-night 
burlesque was replaced by an orgie 
on the waffle industry. A contest 
would have resulted, but the swim
mers capacity for waffles exceeded 
all ordinary means of mass produc-. 
tion. Baslcr showed his pool room 
abilities in more ways than one. 
In one more arid game, played on 
a pool table, lie succeeded in mak
ing more balls disappear than the 
late .Paul Bergman.
Next years team will severely 
feel the loss by graduation of 
Sangster, Baslcr, Shafer, Fuller and 
King. This seasons results are 
evenly divided with four wins and 
the same number of loses. The 
following arc the individual totals 
for the season: Shafer, 45; Easier, 
36; Edwards, 36; Redding, 29; 
Sangster, 27; King, 20; Fuller, 16; 
Easterbrook, 9; Hazelwood, 8; Berg
man, 8; Ellis, 5; Looney, 4. It is felt 
that Ellis would have done better if 
the mumps had not claimed him 
in the beginning. Baslcr did es
pecially well for six first placcs in 
eight meets.
The Plebes were defeated by the 
stronger Kiski team with the score 
of 50 to 15. Coulter took thirds in 
the 45 yard and 90 yard sprints. 
Franke placcd second in the 220 
yard and was followed by Jerge. 
The same is true of Baltrusaitis 
anrJ Goldberg in the breast stroke. 
Third place in the back stroke 
went to Cadmus, and i.:t the diving 
to Jerge.
Our pool will be the scene of1 the 
First Annual Intcrscholastic Relay 
Swimming Meet on April 5. This 
affair is an exceptional one due to 
the fact that every race is a relay. 
They are classed as1 a medley, 
breast, back and free style events, 
for juniors and seniors. It is 
thought that this will maintain an 
interest among a greater number 
of boys and give more satisfactory 
results. This swimming gala is 
sponsored by Coach Risedorph, and 
the returned entry blanks show 
that keen competition will occur.
The Annual Beginners Match 
will be shot the week ending 
March 22. All beginners should 
plan to take part in this match. 
Lieut. Cothran will'award a sil
ver loving cup to the winner.
During the weeks ending 
March 22, 29 and April 5, the 
Womens'-Rifle Team will enter 
the Triangular Match with the 
Mens Varsity and Plebe teams., 
As in previous years, the winner 
will be entertained at a party 
given by the losers.
Cornelia Otis Skinner will, pre
sent a program of dramatic 
pkctchcs under the auspices of 
the Womens Scholarship Or
ganization at Carnegie Music 
Hall on the evening of April 1. 
One theatrical performance is 
given each year by the organiza
tion for the benefit of the scholarship fund.
The campus ticket sale will 
begin on Wednesday, March 12. 
Lavina Holmes will be in charge 
of the sale. Her committee will 
be composed of representatives 
from the different classes and 
dormitories. The prices will be 
from 75 cents to $2. Orchestra 
seats will be $2; first balcony, 
$2 and $1.50, and second bal
cony, $1 and 75 cents. The stubs 
can be exchanged for reserve 
scats at Central Building on 
March 19, 20 and 21.
The officers of the organiza 
tion arc Katherine Anderson, 
president; Agnes Harmon and 
Louise Gilbert, vice presidents; 
Betty Steele, secretary, and Ruth 
Licberman, treasurer.
The Alpha Chi Alpha, Honor
ary Journalistic Sorority, held a 
meeting in the Womens -Cluj) 
Room of the Gymnasium on 
Thursday, March 6. The prin
ciple business before the meet
ing was the appointment of a 
nominating committee, which 
consists of Margaret Nuttail, 
Florence McLaughlin and Ruth 
B ramson.
After the nominations have 
been completed each Alumna will 
be sent a ballot containing the 
names of the nominees and all 
voting will be done by mail. 
The Alumnae Chapter of Alpha 
Chi Alpha has only been recently 
organized, and no definite plans 
will be made for future activi
ties until permanent officers have 
been elected.
Youngstown Clan
The Youngstown Clan held a 
radio party on March 11 to listen 
to Carnegie Tech Radio's Hour 
which was broadcast over station 
KDKA, Myron Kinder, Dwight. 
Beede' and Ralph Woodward were j 
in charge of the meeting.
In the midst of the program the 
following telegram was received 
from the clati: "Carnegie program, 
coming fine. This old clan right 
in line. You can always count on 
Youngstown when you have some 
good old Tech sounds. Send collect 
Carnegie Tech.
"Youngstown Scotch.*
North Jersey Clan
The March meeting of tljc North 
Jersey Clan is to be held on March 
26 at 8 p. m. in the, Lighting In
stitute of the Wcstinghouse Lamp 
Company, Grand Central Palace, 
New York.
The Lighting Institute occupies 
an a'rea equal to that of an entire 
city block with over 20 distinct 
classes of buildings with corre
sponding lighting arrangements 
represented in full size. There is 
a completely equipped art gallery, 
a hospital and an auditorium seat
ing 200 people. Lighting intensities 
vary from moonlight tq full sun
light. Here- the student or visitor 
may observe and study every form 
of lighting effect from the modern
istic to the classic. It is an educa
tion in itself just to be able to 
enter the Institute.
Before the meeting there mem
bers of the Clati will dine in the
jVOLO.XIjV,N
Special Offer to Students j : 8x10 Portrait in Easel Frame, 5 $2.95. JActual $10.00 Value. \25% Discount on Other Orders. jFRANK TOTINO STUDIO
: 3710 FORBES ST., OAKLAND J
GEORGE H. MEJRRIN
evenHotel Shelton, Lexington avenue 
at Forty-eighth, street at 6:15 p. m. 
Everybody is cordially invited to attend.
when you can buy a splendid 5 
or 6-room home within 15 min
utes drive of Carnegie Campus. 
Wc have 10 such homes for sale, 
possession May 1st, prices rang
ing from $6,800 to $7,900, $500 
to $800 down, payments $50 to 
$60 per month. Your choice of 
a bungalow, semi-bungalow or 
2-story dwelling. For particu
lars call Mayflower 3998.
Y
OUVE noticed how expressive 
the pipe can be, what meaning 
it can put into the simplest gesture. 
The pipe even helps you say nothing 
at alland that, O mortal, takes 
a man among men!
Men to their pipes and women 
to their-lipsticksbut suppose you 
had no pipe and faced repression? 
Suppose you had no tobacco to put 
in your pipe! Empty pipes make 
empty gestures that have no mea^s 
ing. Filled with good tobacco, your 
pipe becomes eloquent. Filled with 
Edgeworth, it is Olympian I
What, no Edgeworth? Lose not 
a momenthaste to ,the mails with 
the coupon. Let the machinery of 
government rush to you a free 
packet of good old Edgeworth, 
delicious and friendly Edgeworth, 
full-flavored, slow-burning, cool.
CMON TECH
Let's Go to theNEW 
Campus Barber Shop
Woodlawn Ave. at Forbes St.
NOTICE!
R. O. T. C. SMOKER
Robert Woodsidcs, ex-sheriff 
of Allegheny County and a. well 
known speaker, will give the 
main talk at the R. O. T. C. 
smoker, which will be given -on 
Wednesday, March 19, at 7:30 in 
the Union. Other talks will be 
given by several veterans of the 
World war, who will recount 
some of their personal experi
ences.Oakland Savings SC 
Trust Company
The Oakland Bank
CAPITAL $300,000.00 
SURPLUS $500,000.00 DEPOSITS OVER $6,000,000.00
There are few differences in this 
drab-colored world so. startling as 
those between various kinds of 
minds.
Moinbcr Florint TclcRrnph Delivery 
AssociationLydia Snyders 
FLOWERS
119 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH. PA.
. Mayflower 9200_______
' Edgeworth, is o' carefuj 
ICIJUuhOot* blend of good tobaccos
i.M H DTW,e'/] selected especially for
!pUB8!Di pipe-smoking. Its quality|(. nndfluvornovorc/jantfa,
LC><^0Rny Edgeworth any==// where in two forms f Ready Rubbed and
'Plug Slice15d pockct packagc to pound hu> 
niidor tin.EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
For Your Next DanceJerry McGeorge and Hiswho may have read the opening 
paragraphs of this column and 
who have dismissed the thought 
of trying out for the squad. 
THINK IT OVER.
C. B. Aylesworth.R. J. Miller---------
O. C. Young------F. W, Cot! on____C. W. Eh ni______Adam Roscoe ___
---------------President____Vice President_________Treasurer.
Assistant Treasurer
____.-SecretaryAssistant Secretary
For Rates, Phone Schenley 1490
TYPEWRITERSARE YOU PREPARED FOR YOUR 
NEXT FORMAL?
YOU WANT TO APPEAR IN THE BEST, EVERYBODY ELSE DOESR-E-N-T
The Latest Style Tuxedo Suit and Accessories From Us.
ALL 8IZEH PERFECT FITSPECIAL STUDENT RATES
DIRECTORSAll Makes Sold and 
Rented
C. B. Aylesworth James B. Clark John Dimling Barney Dreyfuss J. Rogers Flannery
L. H. Gethoefer / C. H. Kerr J. O. Miller 'R. J. Miller John G. Pew
LARUS & BRO. CO. |
100 S, 22d St., Richmond, Va. j
I'll try your Edgeworth. And Ill try 1
it in a pad pipe. j
I Name.A. B. Sheets
Special Rates to StudentsStreet.
Member Federal Reserve SystemTown and State................... ,, .....____T__ j
Now lot tho Edgeworth comet v IAgency Underwood, 
Royal-Remington and 
Corona Portables
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Day Phono Night Phone
ATLANTIC 0505 LAFAYETTE 4791-R
ONCE MORE, WE SAY TO THE TRACK CANDI
DATES, "PRACTICE EVERY NIGHT. Also, those of yotStandard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE
Phone Atlantic 0342
STARTING MARCH 14
CANDYLAND
WILL BE OPEN EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT 
UNTIL 2:30 A. M.
6214 Penn Avenue East Liberty
College JewelrySeal StationeryPennants
C. M. STAUFToOXO2I3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students SuppliesThe Personal Writing Machino
DYNAMITE dears the way for modem engineering wonders
Cascade 
Tunnel
Delicious and Refreshing. cas>1 ) OTM 5.1 fi 'HAI .WAYSV, N S W GAB C A D S T U fj NSt,4 O >JY.3 OP <p nl iT/AI. UMlvaP
Theres a 
Silver Lining
Americas longest 
railrond tunnel 
bnllt with the aid 
of DYNAMITES
A world-wide market placeThe first 
train brala 
throu^Ji tha 
paper barrier!Eighty-five per cent of the worlds tele
phones can be reached from any telephone 
of the Bell System. This includes those of 
Canada, Cuba, Mexico, andby the new 
radio-telephone link spanning the Atlantic 
most of the countries of Europe.
Already many American business men are 
using this service to expedite the transac
tion of foreign business and are finding it 
quick, convenient and profitable.
The future possibility of talking directly 
with almost anyone in the world who has 
access to a telephone is enough to stimulate 
any mans thinkingnot only from an 
engineering standpoint, but because of its 
significance to American industry.
I in the paUSC
I that refreshes
I? So many unhappy things can happen to
) increase that old inferiority complex. Deans
and Doctors, Mid-years and Finals, all dedi
cated to tho cause of making life a burden.
Coca-Cola was made for times like these.
Heres a drink that will quickly invest 
you with some of its life aiid sparkle.
Give you exceeding joy in its tingling, deli
cious taste. And leave you with that cool 
after-sense of refreshment in which a right
eous megalomania may wax fat and prosper.
Ifce Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
CW-3
HAD TO BE GOOD TO GET THERE IT IS
BELL SYSTEM
tA nation-wide system of inter-connecting telephonesMstfeur
Crantlaad Rise F#moa
Sporla ChompIotiBi*'Coca>Co* 
Orcbentra ''Wednesday 10:30 
lo 11 p. m. E. S. T. ** Coast to 
Cowl NBC NejworSs
3CACRE GSTU R3 T3FSEHY P oSCBDToCB M1jDOj89 Department, WIJmlngton, Del.9 MILLION A DAY-I T

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1930.THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Ube Carnegie flMal
Night Engineers* Smoker, 
March 2fi.
Night Industries Smoker, 
March 29,
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS
The mind put to useful purpose 
has no time in which to meditate 
upon useless ends..Book Review: What the Night Arts Are ReadingNIGHT ENGINEERS 
SMOKER SCHEDULED 
FOR MARCH 26
Night industries 2nd 
Semester Smoker
arrange to participate .in the fes
tivities. Remember that the date 
is March 29, and it will be be hold 
in the gym.
DIDJA NOTICE
Morley Callahan,0 who I never liked anyway, has gone and done it 
again. This time its "Its Never Over (Scribners). Maybe you re
member once I told you that he seems to try, and try was the word 1 
used, to imitate Hemingway. It has never been shown in any of his 
books to the extent it has in this one. It starts out well enoughwith 
a hanging (and what could be sweeter?), but Mr. Callahan, a Tully in 
Huxley clothing or to make it more impressionable, a John Kane: in 
MacGilvarys style makes a botch of any attempt to indelibly impress 
you with the neurasthania of one of the main characters. And in case 
i you dont know what that means you know what to do. Me, too.
Anyway its about a war veteran who gets into a brawl with a. cop, 
said cop coming out of the affair horizontly, and, incidentally, the rea
son for the book being written, I suppose. Well, it seems a war vet
eran cant get away w&li murder so our hero exists and the story con
cerns itself from then on with his sister who imagines that shes irre
vocably degraded and what arc you gonna do about it?. Well, I can 
bring everyone down to my level for one thing, or else. So she does 
thereby spoiling the lives of at least five, people. Speaking of spoiling 
lives, why say more? If you like Morley Callahan dont let me stop 
you.
Maybe you read Dorothy Herzog in the daily paper, maybe you 
dont but thats neither here nor thereall you have to do now, is to 
get her new, and I think first, book Some Like It Hot McCauley) 
and get- ready for an enjoyable hour or so.
Just as a form of retrospect: Miss Herzog writes a movie news
column, maybe that explains her heroine a girl not of today or tomor
row but sometime after the day after. Peppered with the lightest and 
fliopest slang our heroine reaches forth to tTy everything. And docs 
she get by? Dont ask! This is a story isnt it? The girl, too, seems 
to be a combination of movie.stars namely: A. White, J. Crawford and 
the delectable C. Bow. I cant get over thinking Miss Herzog wrote with 
one of them in mind. Apropos of nothing, I wonder if the book is to 
be filmed? Anyway, let me tell you youll like its breeziness,, and now 
run out and get it.
Speaking about tlie movies Pare Lorentz who is movie reviewer for 
Judge and Morris L. Ernst have written a nice book in Censored" (J. 
Cape and H. Smith). Its nose thumbing attitude may cause it not to 
be taken too seriously, but consider: didnt it ever make you mad as 
blazes if you ever came across a street urchin who for no reason 
thumbed his nose at your quite vigorously? Well, thats what may 
come of this tome if the censors take it seriously, and heres hoping 
they do with a nite pain in the neck thrown in for good measure. Theres 
nothing that gives me a bigger and better pain in the lower anatomy 
than censors.
Maybe your tired of him by now, maybe you think he is the worlds 
greatest cheese, maybe mayhem comes into your heart at the mere 
mention of his nameI know, a lot of nit-wits who are that way, may
be a lot of things, but if your that way, stay away from Rudy Vallees 
tome Vagabond Dreams Come True (E. P. Dutton). Bravely, un
flinchingly, I come right out with it: I Tike Rudy Vallec, I like his
book too, and Im not drunk, so what arc you gonna do about it now? 
As you might have guessed, the' book is his life story. A blurb, thats 
slang for (un)important notice, tells you the book is not ghost written, 
and Im inclined to believe it. Frankly it has a naiveness that almost 
proves beyond doubt 'the author. Well, anyway, as I said, if you dont 
like Mr. Vallee, stay aw'ay, if you do, let your taste in autobiography be 
your guide.
Last minute notices: Prelude to Love (Harper Bros.), by Mar
garet Culkin Banning is pretty goodnot as serious as the author evi
dently intended and will provide a good evenings entertainment.
Ra-Ta-Plan (Little, Brown), by Dorothy Ogburn is about the 
dizziest murder mystery I l?ave ever laid eyes on.  Danger, keep away.
E. DEL.
Didja Notice in 302 the wise words 
of some sympathetic male for his 
shackled brothersLove is an in
spiration in a crazy mans heart to 
pay a lazy womans board. As a 
matter of fact, he is forgetting the 
number of working wives (to put it 
mildly) in this'age.
Didja Notice we arc again suffer
ing a famine in soap, towels, etc.
Didja Notice how the still- life 
painting class has grown???!
' Didja Notice the number of familiar; 
names in the A. A. exhibit that re
cently left the Musctun? After seeing 
their works, you become conscious of 
a keener respect for them.
Didja Notice the saying, Let not 
young souls be smothered before they 
do quaint deeds and fully flaunt thcipride. Heartless Professors take 
heed.
. Didja Notice that you still risk 
your life crossing Forbes? Quite awhile back, we were told a safety 
light was on its way. They must 
import them from the North Pole.
Didja Notice that hes still in town 
but it wont Tie,long r. w ???
Didja Notice the amazing number 
of absentees these nights? What, 
with Spring coming on and all that, 
vill happen to the rest of us?
Didja Notice how good that re
cipe we printed last week is?
Didja Notice (for girls only) that 
A. G. is looking for a wife? She 
must have one necessary requisite 
she must be able to earn a living 
for two!
First Church of Christ
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.Wednesday evening services 8 to 9
Arrangements are shaping up for 
the next big rtltair to be held by 
the Night College of Industries 
This is the Second Semester Smok
er and Assembly which is schedul
ed to be held in the Mens Gymnasiuyi Auditorium on Saturday 
evening, March 29.
We do yot have, complete in
formation as. to what style or type 
of entertainment will be furnished, 
but you can rest assured that it will 
be the best that is possible to ob
tain. The prpvious smokers spon
sored by this group have all been 
extremely successful, and this will 
be no exception.
Wc arc told that there will be 
tickets distributed, and that door 
prizes will be offered as usual. 
The distribution of these tickets 
will start immediately and can be 
obtained in the corridors of In
dustries and from the officers .of 
Industries. Be sure to obtain your 
ticket so that you can participate 
in the door prize drawing. Ad
mittance will he by these tickets 
and your registration card.
We hope to have romplctc in
formation of this, smoker for pub
lication in our next issue. However, 
be sure to reserve this date and 
make arrangements to be present. 
Do not confuse this smoker with 
vany other affair on the campus. It 
is always the biggest and best af
fair held on the campus by the 
night students. There will be no 
classes this night and you should
Customs bad in themselves seem 
to some men to acquire authority 
and prescription from the fact that 
they arc commonly practised.
The next function to be held by 
the Night College of Engineering will 
be its Smoker, which is scheduled for 
Wednesday evcni.ig, March 26, 1930, 
in the Union.
The program of entertainment will 
last for about two and one-half hours. 
It will include movies and Vaudeville 
Acts. There will also be plenty of 
smokes and the whole affair will 
wind, up with cats being served by 
the committee in charge. The whole 
evening will be given over to your 
entertainment.
There is no charge for admission. 
All that is required is that you be a 
registered night engineering student 
and show you registration card. It 
is put on for your benefit alone and 
the least you can do for its success 
is to be there.
The Thistle pictures were taken 
last Wednesday evening and about 
one hundred and fifty night students 
of the engineering group were on 
hand. This certainly is gratifying 
in view of some of the past per
formances, and the officers wish to 
thank these men for their co-opera
tion. Of course, this is only a small 
percentage of our enrollment but in 
View of the arrangement of schedule 
and indifference shown by many it is 
pleasing.
Let us keep this spirit up and 
see if we cant spread it around and 
make this smoker the real get to
gether it is intended to be. The 
entertainment will commence at 8:30 
p. m. Remember the date, March 26.
Well, thats over, the Thistle pic
ture taking. Everybody in Pitts
burgh had their picture shot, or 
rather nearly everybody. On Tues
day there seemed to be a little 
mixup on the schedule, but this 
was overcome in short order. It 
appeared that the Union was in use 
by some engineering Group for a 
Smoker which had been scheduled 
previously. The place was dark 
and you had to watch your step. 
It wasnt long before somebody 
arrived who took the situation in 
at a glance and started the wheels 
rolling to straighten out the en
tanglement. The watchman was 
secured and this versatile individuual co-operated immediately by 
throwing open the Faculty Club 
room in which tq take the pictures. 
The shifting of the scene to this 
room caused no little confusion be
cause all the electric lines for the 
lights were over in the union, so 
entirely, new lines had to be strung. 
However, before long the machin
ery was in working order and the 
shots were shot.
Speaking of the watchman, I 
havent seen a more accommodating 
individual in a long time. If you 
want any information, why .just 
ask him, and you arc sure to be 
told the right answer. I remember 
when I first came on the scene 
last fall and I was in a dilemma 
trying to find out where room 
such and such wasI believe you 
will remember my predicament; 
well he just set me right and I am 
'his friend for life, for what more 
discommoding experience could 
there be than trying to find out 
where such and, such a room is in 
Industris Building. He uses his 
head, too, and I. have noted on sev
eral occasions that he has solved 
a difficult question by making a 
right decision. He must be here 
a long time because I noticed that 
he has the gold stripes on his arm 
five, I believe, and each of them 
must be for ten j-ears or- thcre.abouts. Well, Im for him every 
tme. I must find out his name. 
I call him Mr. Watchman.
Just received my grades for the 
first semestergood, bad and in
different. Gee, there must be a lot 
;of them to send out4500. Just 
think what it means to send out 
such a bunch. Ill bet that they do 
overtime in the Registrars office 
getting this dath together. I have 
noticed a congenial chap here most 
every night. He seems to have 
charge of the night section. He is 
always answering questions the 
night students jjput to him, and 
sometimes he has to go up to the 
second floor for the information, 
tie, too, is very accommodating 
and sometimes this is hard, because 
of the big demand that there is 
made on this office. Yoit may not 
be as fortunate as I was, but have 
patience. Remember, the assistant in 
the Registrar's office in charge of 
the night section has a lot to do, 
and his patience is tried, so have 
a heart, and before long yours will 
be in the mail.
N THE MEM TIME
I
IS'THE mean, eixzling time of 
bnndsiunnTed Lewi, two snnppy 
uew steppers make their bowdieo 
by Columbia.
Tho master-jazzist has made this 
tho daneingest pair of foxes you've 
heard corao lastWhilsuntidc.Thcyrc 
both just naturally rhythmic and 
tunefuland Lewis blues them for 
you to u farc-thec-wcll!
Ilear this rccord right away, and 
these companion numbers too . . .
Vocals
Art Gillham 
(Tho Whispering Pianist)
UNITED TYPOTHETAE 
(Continued*from Page One) 
the industry under the chairman
ship of E. E. Sheldon.
On Wednesday morning, the last 
day of the conference, Printing 
Research will be discussed, Don 
A. Johnson will be chairman. The 
concluding session, on Wednesday 
afternoon, will.be devoted to four 
talks on Printing as a Craft apd 
will have L. H. Turner as chairman.
Start Cleaning Up For Spring
Send Your Suits or Dresses to
Forbes Cleaning & Tailoring Co.
4611 FORBES STREET
The Placc Where Scrvicc and Satisfaction is Guaranteed 
Chas Kuntz, Prop. MAflowcr 9728
WHY WORRY ABOUT TRANSPORTATION TO THE WOMENS JUNIOR PROM WHEN YOU CAN RENT NEW CARS FROM
KISSEL SKILES CO., INC.
USE SCHOOL REG. CAR!) FOR DEPOSIT
Nil QScyma Alnlia day evening, March 22, in SnavclysTOW vigilia Militi Grill located on Pmn dvenue, in East
Tft BiftM liberty. All members arc expecteda U mmi BtaCCllBIg} t0 be present at this meeting. A buf----------- fet lunch will be served after theNu Sigma Alpha Fraternity' will meeting by Mie grill management, 
hold its business meeting on Satur- The meeting is callcd for 8:00 p. m.
MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS EARLY FOR YOUR CAR
RENT A CAR 
Six Convenient Station
10 PENN AVE. 0107 UROAD ST.
AlUntle 5151 IIIlnml 11)00
DRIVE IT YOURSELFALL NEW CARS
008 SIXTH AVE 
Solimloy JUllO
3919 FORRES ST. 
Schcnley 1000
125 SEVENTH ST. 
. Atlantic -ItiliG
screen
THE
Plate Lunches
At TheNew Skibo
 a Inn M.
Are Really
Worth Trying
Memholtz, the Times Wants You
PRED E/MEINHOLTZ of the New York & 
sat in his home on long Island, listening-in oa 
a radio press dispatch from the Byrd espedidoru 
Someone on the Times staff wanted to teach 
MeinholK on his home phone. And quickly! But' 
the receiver there happened to be off the hook. t
Radio science was equal to tlie occasion. The Times 
radio operator sent a request to the fur-clad oper
ator at tlie other end of the world. And Meinholte 
was quickly made aware of the situation by a radio 
message from Antarctica saying; "Meinholtz," tho 
Times wants you to hang up your receiver so that 
they can call you on the telephone.
in a cigarette it's
FRESHM HA ANSE
Dependable
For College parties and for Class and Fraternity affairs our service is dependable and reasonably priced.
We are glad to furnish the Pastries. Ice Creams, Candies, etc.. for affairs that dont require catering.
We Rent Equipment 
Tables, and chairs with covers, also linens, china, silver and glassware rented in any quantity. 
Try our noon and evening lunches when m E. Liberty
Store Hours:8 A. M. to 11:30 P. M.
to rise. Make a cigarette of 
better quality, of richer aroma and finer fra
grance and all the world will find it out.
Witness Chesterfields popularity, growing 
every day. No flash in the pan, but enduring 
popularity  earned by giving smokers the 
one thing they want:
TASTE above everutkiaq"
JOIN tJS IW THE CETERAr. ELECTRIC 
HOUR, BROADCAST EVERT SATORr 
DAT AT 9 P.M., E.S.T. OH A NATION
WIDE N.B.C. NETWORK
MILD .., nd yet 
THEY SATISFY
Radio and research are among the many lines of work in which 
college-trained men are engaged at General Electric, where 
they also receive further technical and business training.
FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobacco,, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANPA GIT FOURTUESDAY, MARCH IS, 1930.
THISTLEDOWN
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 
Published once every week during the collcgc year by undergraduates of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. Entered in the Pittsburgh Post Office as Becond-class matter.Not so many years ago, right 
here on this- campus,. the sopho
mores were in - charge . of regula
tions, as of today,: but in those 
days they really enforced them. 
Regulations on the local campus 
have become, as a result of our 
dilatory sophomores,- something 
which we know exist simply be
cause the editors of Tri-Pub have 
printed a few pages about them in 
the Plcbe Bible, and because of 
vague rumors. A couple of weeks 
ago, a dink occasioned, as much 
surprise as a horse would in a 
New York subway. So. Student 
Council, in one of its wiser move
ments, declared that , regulations 
were over for the rest.of the school 
year. And tliey could probably 
make just as many more friends 
by declaring regulations one of 
those things. The only people who 
might be a little sorry would be 
the ' two football players Who, in 
their eager efforts to work their 
way through school, sell the dinks, 
socks, and ties . to the incoming 
freshmen. Dont get us wrong. 
We believe in regulations, as regu
lations, but regulations, ^s-Carnegie 
sophomores are wont to uphold 
them, are as much good -as a kiss 
over the telephone.
Since I was particularly busy last 
week,' I gave little thought to the 
column until Friday night, when 
the editor called me up to ask 
where my stuff "was. T promised 
to send it to him by a plcbe in 
an hour or so* and sat down at 
my desk wondering what to write. 
Pulling out the bottom drawer to 
get some of the pale green paper 
on which I always write these es
says, I noticcd for the first time 
a bundle of papers apparently left 
there by some previous owner of 
the antique. Opening it, I discov
ered them to be first copies in pen
cil of love letters, more or less, 
with penciled annotations. They 
must be at least a year' old, and 
since the people mentioned in them 
have probably been in and out of 
love at least two times since they 
were written, I venture to repro
duce three of them for -the enter
tainment of my readers.
"Dearest Wilma: Doubt that I
shall get A in math, doubt that I 
am too busy to cat, doubt that I 
have stopped smoking, but never 
doubt that I love you . still and am 
true to you alone. I shall be home 
this week end, and see to it that 
you have a date with me for the 
Saturday night dance in the Town 
Hall. At least half the dances are 
lo be mine, and you arc to spend 
the intermission on the balcony 
with me, and not hanging around 
the lemonade booth. With earnest 
love, Willikins.
This note, which I am sure 
would have made Roger chuckle, 
had written across the bottom of it, 
Telephone Minnie for a date to
morrow, Friday, night. The next 
letter was so full of erasures and 
scrawls that I could' hardly make 
it out.
Dear Peg: You might have let 
me know before you did that j'ou 
wouldnt go, or rather, didn't want 
to, because I know Avlio callfcd on 
3rou at 8 o'clock. Dont expect
an invitation from me to the Fra
ternity Formal, because Im broke, 
and I have got to cut out cxpensire dates. Let him take you, if lm 
belongs to one. Ill telephone yoij 
about noon on'Friday. Jed.
Beneath this was an itemized account: Date with Ester: Taxi, 3.41; 
dinner, 5.50; theater, 10,25; total, 
19.50, and it was worth it, Ill tell the world.
The next note was of quite a dif
ferent kind. Dear Miss Patter: [
dont how to tell you how 1 felt 
when I met you last week. Can I 
come around Sunday and tell you? 
Perhaps youd rather listen to me a/ 
a talkie. I know one with nice, scntimjntal music. Ill call you up tomor* 
row and see if you got this. Ad
miringly yours, J. G. K.
I had got this far when my 
friend Will came into the room hi 
tell me about his date wit.li that, 
pretty junior lie saved from' fall
ing day before yesterday. 11 a 
looked over my .shoulder to read 
what I was writing, and fell to 
laughing immoderately. Cardo, 
lie said, "youre the first man I 
ever heard of who was willing ttj 
publish his own letters. I hastily 
began explaining that they weren't 
mine, and where they came from, 
when I saw that lie was not lis
tening to me, but was . staring 
reminiscently at a pair of old shoe1* 
I had thrown into the corner.
"That Ester, in. the second let
ter, had one of the prettiest ankles 
in Tech, lie exclaimed. "I shall 
liave to take her out next week 
to see if it is still as shapely. 
Then lie fell to laughing again, and 
taking, my pen away from me, 
forced me to sit down in my Mor
ris chair and smoke one of his 
cigarctcs, while I listened to him 
blessing the moment that lie and 
the lovely Amelia had conic to
gether in the gutter in front ol 
Margaret Morrison.
Cardo Cliardon Discmyollc,'
Spring and the recently-liftcd 
plcbe regulations, strangely enough, 
arc synonomous, and the quiet 
sanctity, of the Hut is no more. 
These children of fortune were 
seen congregating .in the front halls 
of M. M. at five mimites before 
the end of regulationsone hand 
on the safety pin which held the 
hated armband in -place, the other 
holding beads and -ings in readi
ness;/ At 12:05 no' . less than 15 
couples were seen about1 the cam
pus on ihe way to the Park or the 
Grill. Further fraternal love is 
manifested by the joint tca-dancc 
they arc sponsoring on Thursday, 
March 20. Good work, Picbcs. 
The four-schools-in-one idea is 
stressed too little by most of us.
Suggestion is made that the 
Seniors sclect a representative 
board from the Senior- Fence to 
call their own. At present, it is 
common property, but it should 
not be hard to find a scratchy 
piece of jagged wood for 1930. 
After three years of sitting on the 
college rcsting-placc, a few more 
dents do not bother them in the 
least, but all the other yearlings 
and youngsters would be physically 
unable to stand the grind. If this 
policy were continued, one of the 
most ancient traditions would come 
to light again.
ATTENTION, SENIORS!
Are you interviewing the personnel representatives of the 
various companies who are coming to Carnegie? If so, please 
remember the importance of your appearance and address.
An investment in personal appearance and dress will always 
pay dividends in salary and advancement. You do not have to 
bo expensively dressed to be well dressed. Anyone can keep 
clothes pressed, shoes shined and be particular about personal 
appearance in every detail. Be conservative and do not wear 
trick clothes. Observe what well dressed business men wear. 
By all means read Part I, Chapter 3; Part II, Chapters 3, 4, 5, 
7, S, and Part III, Chapters 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 of The Book 
of Good Manners by Frederick Ii. Martens; also Manpower, 
by Lincoln C.. Andrews. There are several copies of each in the 
Hut Library.
All the channels through which positions are located lead, 
up to a personal interview with the prospective employer. Your 
appearance and what you say and do are sales factors in any 
interview. Be natural, courteous and friendly. Ask intelligent 
questions.
Remember no man on earth comes to the exact require
ments of any position. Make the most of what you have to 
offer. Sell your services.
Employment Bureau.
new pair of shoes. Then, too', 
Roger Ellis has grown a lovely 
new moustache during his period 
of solitary confinement. Its a 
good thing his only . malady was 
the mumps. If he had had scarlet 
fever, lie might have appeared with 
a beard.
Henry R. Loxtcrman is no longer 
president of Theta Tau. His crown 
was knocked off last week, and 
Master James Herbert Dodge is 
his new successor. Master Dodge 
is the irrepressible youth who asks 
all the foolish questions in Prof. 
Ncclleys 12:30 math class.
We were given a quick start the 
other day when we thought we 
saw Teddy Joyce walking into the 
Grill. We Were wrong, however. 
It was only Louis Frank Buranowitz of the Senior Builders. And 
continuing with the builders, the 
latest open job on the campus be
longs to none other than Sig Holvcrstott. Sig, himself, is authority 
for the statement that the car has 
only run 15,000 miles, four times 
around, so enter at your peril.
Kay McKinney thinks that no 
one is famous until their name has 
appeared in this column. Now she 
can write home to Little Washington and tell her friends all 
about it. Franny SoJincidcr can do 
the same thing in regard to Erie.
The remarkable persuasive pow
ers of our own David Harold 
Eldridgc Gcntcr arc appalling. 
There were only four girls clamor
ing about his desk in the Tartan 
office last Friday. And, about 
girls, Harry Kolb has superseded 
Jack Boyle as the tutor of the 
black haired reporter. Therell be 
a civil war soon.
And, in conclusion, let us remind 
you to be sure to look at Ann 
McKees picture in the Thistle. 
You can use your own judgment.
ORATORICAL CONTEST'
.(Continued from Page One) 
Policies, Constitutional Incentives 
to Individual Initiative, The Con
stitution and the Attempts at Bloc 
Government, The Constitution and 
Industrial Pcacc in the United 
States, Constitutional Guarantees to 
all American Citizens, The Consti
tution and International Affairs, 
American Youth and the Constitu
tion, and The Constitution and Its 
Founders.
Special for students:
Open til 2 A. M. t : 
Fridays and 
Saturdays I
RECENT SURVEY SHOWS
(Continued from Page One) 
elude courscs related to vocational 
guidance and employee training.
The Collcgc ' of Industries Cata
logue which is now in press con
tains the fgllowing statement con
cerning, changes in objectives-:
The ' Industrial Education Cur
riculum is designed to meet the 
need of students who wish to pre
pare to. enter one of the following 
closely related fields:
a. Teaching general and unit in
dustrial arts shop and mechanical 
drawing courscs in the public 
schools.
b. Employee training and person
nel work in industrial' plants.
c. Vocational guidance and coun
seling.
WOMEN HOLDSTUDENT COUNCIL
Random shots and random 
thoughts. We have an apology to 
make. In naming the famous peo
ple at the Newman Club benefit 
performance in last weeks issue, 
we overlookc I two very wellknown members of our own Mag
gie Murphs. These girls were 
very much put out so well tell 
you all about them this week.. The 
disappointed ones were Ida May 
Campbell and Icky Sheppard. 'We 
looked up in that direction but1 
probably couldnt sec that far back.
Chuck Miller started training' for 
C. C. Pyles annual cross-continqnt 
race by taking ,a very long walkin Banking and Credit last week. 
And while we are in the Commer
cial Department, the Kingfish has
(Continued from Page One) 
the Silver room adjoining the Urban 
room. The favors will be distributed 
at the time of the Promenade. Fol
lowing the Grand March a buffet sup
per will be served in the Silver room.
The tickct sale has been unusually 
succc. sful, over me hundred tickets 
having been sold to Juniors, Seniors 
and Alumnae. Thcr^ will be about 
sixty Senior guests. The committee 
urges that all the money for tickets 
be in ljy Wednesday.
(Continued from Page One) which will be o^ three days dura
tion this yearMay 8, 9 and 10 
which falcon Thursday, Friday and 
Saturday, respectively.
The feature of the first day will 
be the Coronation Ball, which will 
include the crowning of the Cam
pus Queen, who will preside over 
all festivities this year. The pro
gram of the second day will com
prise . a number of entertaining 
events: The County Fair, at which 
the fraternity men will have an 
opportunity to exhibit their talents 
and ingenuity; the afternoon will 
be marked by Honorary Fraternity 
calls, the Burial of the Plcbe Reg
ulations, and the Welding of the 
Class of 33 Link; diversion will be 
offered in the evening by the High
land Fling, a Scotch costumc dance.
The program for Saturday, which 
delayed ultimate action by the 
Student Council, has been finally 
agreed upon by the Deans and the 
Committee. It includes the Intcrfraternity Sweepstakes Finals- and 
the R. O. T. C. Review in the 
morning, a cabaret dance in the 
gym in the afternoon, and the stag
ing of the annual Campus Show by 
the Drama Department in the eve
ning.
The program corhmittec consists 
of James Ashwell, chairman, An
drew Yerina, Margaret Keenoy, and 
Huldabelle Montgomery.
It is a mark of distinction to be known as a 
rendezvous for the college setDR. HEINROTH
(Continued from Page One) 
Music of Wales, will be. given on 
April 12. These lectures will take 
the place of the usual Saturday 
evening organ recitals, and will be 
illustrated by Dr. Heinroth with 
selections played . on the organ op 
piano. These talks arc open to the 
public.
ROTHS GRILL
E. LIBERTYENRIGHT THEATER BLDG,
"A TRULY COLLEGIATE INSTITUTION1
ENGINEERS INTERVIEWS
(Continued from Page One)
Bell Telephone Companys repre
sentatives will interview the senior 
engineers on March 25 and 26. On 
March 1'9 and 20, appointments for 
these conferences can be made in 
the Conference Room of the 'Col
lege of Industries. W. S. Vaughan, 
S. C. Ralston and H. C. Diltz, Car
negie alumni, and 3cll Telephone 
employes, will take the appoint
ments for these confc. ences.
A. J. Mundt of the Western 
Union Telegraph Company desires 
interviews with Mechanical and 
Electrical Engineers Friday and 
Saturday, March 21 and 22.
Students are asked to make ar
rangements for interviews before 
the . representatives arrive. Notices 
of other companies will be posted 
on the bulletin boards.
ORATORICAL CONTEST 
(Continued from Page One) The winner of eliminations will 
enter as a representative of Car
negie Tech in the State or regional 
contests to be held from April 24 
to May 3. The Zone Contest or 
the National Semi-Finals,- consist
ing of the winners * of the State 
Contest will be held from May 
16 to May 30. The National Final 
Gontest will take place on June 19 
at Los Angeles where winners 
from all over the United States 
will orate. Seven cash prizes, total
ing five thousand dollars will be 
awarded in the National Finals.
The Better America Federation 
of California finances and conducts 
these contests in order to increase 
the interest and respect for the 
Constitution and to serve as. its 
contribution for a better and more 
intelligent citizenship.
Engraved 
Jo V 0 r3nR eHCIDEN PAYNE IS HERE 
(Continued from Page One) 
who is now associated with the 
Goodman Memorial Theater in Chi
cago, . has personally directed all 
but three' of the Shakespearean 
plays that have been produced at 
Carnegie. He is widely rccognizcd 
as an authority on Shakespeare and 
Elizabethan drama both from a 
dramatic and a literary standpoint.
STUDENTS
ACCOUNTS WELCOME
atForbes National Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND PITTSBURGH
1760. Another publication which 
has received popular acclaim is his 
Early History of American Auc
tions, published in 1920. His lat
est book is Incidence of the Fed
eral Corporation Income Tax, 
published in 1929.For Yvonnes feeble Istrength was spent after an hours flight across 
the ice-pack.
Them aint dogs, woman! laughed the sheriff. Thems your hoy 
friends. They bark like bloodhounds because they dont smoke OLD 
COLD, the honey-smooth cigarette made from queen-leaf tobacco 
............better have em change to it and save yourself a lot of unnec
essary alarm, my gal.
FOUNDNOTED ECONOMIST 
(Continued from Page One) 
esting text dealing with Middle
men in English Business from 1660-
DESIRABLE RESIDENCE 
FOR RENT 
1209 South Negley avenue, 
10 rooms, within convenient 
distance of C. I. T. Campus. 
Phone J. G. Bright, Schenley 
1435.
Needs for the Womens Junior 
Prom
Collars
Studs
Not Everything, But Every
thing of the BestUNIVERSITY
RESTAURANT
Newly Equipped. Up-to-date cooking 
4605 Forbes Stret, Near Cr;j
O r. LoHI!*rd Co.
HECK & GEORGE
MA. 5102. 3945 FORBES ST.FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY... NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD
On your Radio . .. OLD COLDPAUL WIIITEMAN HOUR. Paul Whiteman and complete orchestra . . . every Tuesday, 9 to 10 P. M., Eastern Standard Time
