(Ttic Carnegie ^Tartan
Men must be at liberty to 
say in print whatever they 
have a mind to say, pro
vided it wrongs no one.
CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 27, No. 3CARNEGIEOF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1932
^irst Chapel Will Be 
Held Today; Dr. E. J. 
Van Etten To Speak
ichard Dryden Will Be 
Soloist; Is Graduate 
Music Student
ARIED PROGRAMS 
TO BE SCHEDULED
ampus Organizations Will 
Promote Interest In 
Chapel Meetings
The first chapel of the school year 
1 be held today at 12:30 in the 
;tle Theater. College of Fine 
ts, with Dr. Baker presiding.
. Edwin J. Van Etten of the Calry Episcopal Church of Pittsrgli will be the speaker. Dr. 
In Etten is a popular speaker 
,n[d has for several years delivered 
,ni address at the first chapel of 
year.
Bichard Dryden, a graduate student of the Department of Music, rifl sing and will be accompanied ni the organ by Mr. Matthew Frey, Iso a Carnegio graduate, and a iember of the faculty. Mr. Dry- en is a former soloist of the ens Glee Club.This year, interest in the chapel ograms is being spread by the pious organizations and lionor- ies on the campus. It is felt at a great many members of the jdent body have beeen failing to .^Ite advantage of the prominent, and varied .programs presented.' For the past ten years this Tuesday noon service has been a tradition of Carnegie. Chapel provides an opportunity for out-of-town stu- ients as well as local students to lear outstanding speakers.
Carnegie Alumni 
Pursue Studies 
Through Awards
Three graduates of Carnegie in le Department of Architecture ro this year pursuing further udies of their subject through holarsliips which were awarded l'or tho excellence of their work at Carnegie. These men, James A. 
Mitchell), Dahlen IC. Ritchey, and Daniel S. Defenboclier, were out standing men of last year's graduating class in architecture.Mr. Mitcholl, who is the recipient of the American Institute of Architects Medal for general excellence, the Henry 1-Iornbostel Prize for Esquisse-Esquisse, and a first medal in a recent Beaux Arts Institute of Design Competition, tvas awarded the Columbia Uni/ersity scholarship of eighteen hundred dollars and has recently aken up his studies at that icho.ol.Mr. Ritchey, winner of a second inedal in a Beaux Arts Institute of Design Competition, is now at Har
vard University with a five hundred dollar scholarship.Mr. Defenboclier, also winner of a second medal, Beaux Arts Institute of Design Competition, and recipient of the Alpha Rlio Chi medal for excellence in his senior year, has been given a fellowship at Carnegie by an interested friend of the department who wishes to further graduate study under its direction.
CIIAPEL SPEAKER
Will Confer 
Degree M. S. 
In Civil Eng.
Two Carnegie Graduates 
Expect To Receive 
Degrees In June
STUDY REINFORCING 
FOR THESIS WORK
DR. EDWIN J. VAN ETTEN
Dr. Edwin J. Van Etten, pastor of the Calvary Episcopal Church of Pittsburgh who will speak at the first chapel of the year today in The Little Theater at 12:30.
Prof. Mylrea 
Studies New 
Beam Process
Method Of Reinforcing 
Steel And Concrete 
Is Discovered
The discovery of a method of 
reinforcing steel and concrete 
beams to make the steel twice as strong as before has been made by Professor T. D. Mylrea, of the Department of Building Construction.The strength of reinforced concrete beams used at present is limited by the fact that under heavy loads the steel yields. Professor Mylreas discovery puts the cost of the stronger steel within the range of commercial possibility.
During the past year, the Concrete Reinforcing Steel Institute has been conducting a series of tests on reinforced concrete col- unis.. This latest discovery, according to one of the officers of the institute, "will mako some decided changes in concrete design as soon as field practice can be improved sufficiently to take advantage of these discoveries.The institute is sending Professor Mlyrea some samples of high 
grade steel to continue his experi- ments. The new beam will be tested shortly before Chirstmas.
Economic conditions and the growth of the concrete reinforcing industry to second place among the industries of the United States have furthered intensive industrial research in this direction.
Will Be First Day School 
Candidates For M.S. In 
Civil Engineering
Two graduate students in the 
Department of Civil Engineering, 
Lieutenant Robert E. Cron, Jr., 
West Point 30 and Carnegie '32, 
and Stephen Malevich, Carnegie 
32 will be candidates for the first 
master of science degrees con
ferred by this department in Car
negie day school history. Prof. F. 
M. McCullough, head of the depart
ment, has announced. They expect 
to receive their degrees at the June 
commencement exercises.
The course of study in graduate work is the same for both men. The subject of their theses will be, Reinforced Brick Masonry. Experimental work will be done in the Materials Laboratory. Other graduate subjects carried by both men are: indeterminate structures, transportation, soil mechanics, corrosion of metals, photoelasticity and advanced structure of materials.Lieut. Cron was graduated from West Point in 1930 and entered Carnegie last year. He received the degree of bachelor of science in June. His undergraduate schedule for this year includes: geological problems, construction, plant design, mechanical equipment of buildings, reinforced concrete, and mathematical analysis.Mr. Malevichs undergraduate work will include geological problems, differential equations, mathematical analysis, and construction plant design.
Elmer Kenyon To 
Address Y.W.C.A.
On Wednesday, October 12, the first Y. W. C. A. supper meeting of tyie year will be held at 5:30 in the Recreation Hall of Margaret 
Morrison. Prof. Elmer Kenyon, Nad of the Department of Drama, review the much-discussed . "Green Pastures. The Arion Quartet, a group of negro :rs, will sing several spiritan Green and Mrs. Patterson, itive sponsors of the Y. W. C. nil be present at the supper, special invitation is issued to women of the freshman class veil as those of the tipper Bes. The cabinet hopes to t the year with a large number leople present.'he "Y is arranging a series of lthly supper meetings which , deal with the modern trend religion. Prominent represen- ves of tho different religions 
be tho speakers, and appro- tle music will be featured on programs.
trnegie Alumni Has 
Neui Book Published
"rs. Raymond F. Hosford ro.thy Grant, 23) is the author i book published last month d "Sons of the Volsungs." It . story of the Norse legendary ) Sigurd. The volume is in- led for older children. The k has as its basis an earlier n of the same legend from 
ill Wagner took the theme of operas of "The Ring and is d from William Morris 
a the Volsung.
Puppet And Time 
Join Subscriptions
The publishers of "Time, news weekly, have offered a proposition to the Carnegie Tech Puppet whereby the value of yearly subscriptions sold will be returned to Puppet in advertising. Owing to the present economic conditions, the Puppet finds that its advertising space-is not selling in sufficient quantity. The advertising must be increased, and the above proposition, if carried out successfully, will help greatly to fill the available space.Time is a news weekly covering the important world events in all their phases. The subscription for one year is priced at .five dollars, and a two-year subscription sells for eight dollars. Any one who wishes to subscribe should 
put a note stating his wish in the school mail box.
All freshmen interested in trying out for the Puppet business staff are to report at the office between 12:30 and 1:30 on Thursday.
Ex-Carnegie Man Wounded 
In Morocco By Tribesman
Lectured Here Last Year About His Experiences 
As a Member of the French Foreign Legion: 
Was Managing Editor of Tartan 1915-16
By JOE
Captain Edgar Guerard Hamil
ton, who is perhaps leading as 
colorful life as any student who 
ever attended Carnegie was seri
ously injured by the bullet of a 
Morocco tribesman while leading 
his company of French Foreign 
Legionnaires during a raid. Many 
students who attended Carnegie last semester will remember the stirring talk which was given by Captain Hamilton, who was new3 editor of- the Tartan during the year 1914-15 and managing editor during 1915-16.Iny letters written to his mother a day 01* two before he was shot, 
he told of the heavy firing which shook the tent even as he was writing and how the enemys ranks were made up of both tribesmen who had refused to submit to the French rule, and deserters from the French native regiADAMSments  with murder in their hearts."All day long there is heavy canonading and rifle and machine gun fire, he wrote, principally from the hilltops from which, hidden in the rocks, they fire against our camp, or against any of them or their flocks which may show themselves in the abandoned villages which: we plainly see on all sides.After Captain Hamilton was 
shot he lay upon a jolting stretcher as his comrades carried him down the devious passes of the mountain side, constantly .risking more fire from the sulking Berbers.Captain Hamilton was planning to attend a training course for young captains at Versailles at the time of the accident. Whether or 
not his wounds will preclude further service is as yet unknown. 
His home is in New Castle, Pennsylvania.
H owe Medal 
Awarded To 
Dr. Walters
Prof. Gustafson 
Publishes Guide 
Used By U.T.A.
The United Typothetae of America, which is holding a meeting in Cincinnati, October 17 to 20, will use as its guide book the pamphlet, entitled, "National and International Organizations in the Grapliic-Arts Industries in the United States, which was recently published by Professor Gustafson of the Department of Printing. This is a second of a series of studies of the printing industry in this country. The first was published last year under the title, "The Importance of the Printing Industry.The material of the second number of this series was brought to- getlier in connection with an effort to stabilize the printing, industry and to survey the possibilities of organizing from five to six hun
dred associations in America into a more effective group. The association expects to discuss the application of the Swope Plan to printing in order to improve the economic situation in the United States as far as the printing industry is concerned.There is a very close relationship between Carnegie and United Typothetae of America. The organization contributes $22,500 a year to the Department of Printing as Jhe only department in an American college giving instruction to those interested in the printing industry. The students of the printing production class are at present engaged in publishing the November issue of the associations magazine, Printing Education. Copies are to be sent to all parts of the world.
Honorary Fraternity 
To Publish Periodical
Pi Alpha Delta, the scholastic honorary fraternity in the Department of Printing, will take over the publication of Copy, the periodical issued by the printing production class once a month. Previously, "Copy" was edited by two members of the printing production class. Under the new plan, R. Murray Kline will be editor, and Harold B. Pressman, production manager for the first issue. Positions 011 the "Copy staff are open to any member in the printing course.At a meeting held in the pressroom Thursday, Pi Alpha Delta elected the following officers: R.Murray Kline 33, president; Ned. F. Stirling 33, vice president; Harold Cadmus, Jr., 33, secretary, and Harold B. Pressman 33, treasurer.
Drama Head To 
Lecture Tonight
Tonight at 8:00 Professor Elmer Kenyon, head of the Department of Drama, will deliver the second of a series of eight lectures on modern dramatists at the College Club. Mr. Kenyons subject for tonight will be Noel Coward.Last Tuesday, Mr. Kenyon lectured on Eugene ONeill. He spoke 011 ONeills personality and discussed the whole cycle of his works from the early one-act plays to "Mourning Becomes Electra. He showed that the author of Strange Interlude is to be com
pared with Aeschylus and Shakespeare in his ability. Mr. Kenyon is convinced that a spirit of affirmation and faith is overcoming ONeills earlier negation and pessimism.Mr. Kenyons lectures are under the auspices of the Wheaton Club, whose members are alumni of Wheaton College. The price of admission is fifty cents.
PUPPET WORKERS WANTED
All students interested in working on the business staff of the Puppet, Carnegies humorous magazine, are asked to report at the Puppet office, Room 10 Industries, at 12:30 next Thursday.
Recognition Given For 
Writing Of Paper 
On Alloys
Dr. Francis M. Walters, Jr., di
rector of the Bureau of Metallurgical Research at Carnegie was awarded the Howe Medal for 1932 by the American Society of Steel: Treating at a dinner held on October 6 in Buffalo as a part of the National Metals, Congress being held this week.
Dr. Walters was awarded the medal for his paper, "The Alloys of Iron, Manganese, and Carbon. The source of the material embodied in the paper was derived from a number of experiments conducted during the past year by Dr. Walters and his assistants.
The paper has been published by the society and as a bulletin of the Carnegie Institute of Technology. The study is divided into 
four parts: preparation of the alloys, the metal analysis of binary alloys, X-ray study of the binary iron-manganese alloys, and a dilatometric study of iron-manganese binary alloys.
Dr. John F. Eckel and Dr. Max
well Gensamer, who collaborated with Dr. Walters on the study were awarded honorable mention. Both of these men received doctor of science degress in metallurgy at commencement last June.
Pitt Civens, Druids 
Invited To Tea Dance
The Cwen and Druid chapters from the University of Pittsburgh will be guests at a tea dance which the Carnegie chapter of Cwens will hold in Thistle Hall 011 Monday, October 17, from 4 to 6. The dance is planned to further acquaintance among the groups of the two colleges.The dance will be open, to all Carnegie students, and tickets may be purchased from any member of Cwens or Delta Skull for twenty- five cents.
Division Of 
Enrollment Is 
Little Varied
Dolly Allison 
Appointed To 
Tri-Pub. Staff
Council Approves Ap
pointment At Meeting 
On October 4
COUNCIL LOWERS ITS 
ANNUAL EXPENSES
List Includes Students 
From 39 States, 10 
Foreign Countries
Students from ten foreign coun
tries, 39 states and the District of 
Columbia are enrolled at Carnegie 
this semester, according to figures 
issued by the Registrars office.
Of the total number enrolled approximately 75 per cent come from Pennsylvania, and 56 per cent of the total come from Pittsburgh and Allegheny County. Ohio has the second largest group, 148 students, and New York is third with 111 students. West Virginia is represented by 39 students, New Tersey by 38, Connecticut by 28, Maryland by 25, arid Illinois by 19.Canada sends six students, and the Canal Zone and Russia three each. Two students are registered from Palestine and two from Argentina. China, India, Mexico, the Philippine Islands, and Scotland are represented by one student each. Most of these students are enrolled in the College of Engineering, and a few of them are doing graduate work.The number of students this year from otlier states and countries is somewhat less than last year when there were students from 41 states and 12 foreign countries.
Decides That Organizations 
Must Pay Part Of Cost 
Of Activities Keys
The appointment of Dolly Alli
son to the position of Managing 
Editor of Tri-Publications was ap
proved by Student Council at its 
last meeting on October 4.
At the recoinmendation of Alan 
Davis, activities key chairman, 
Student Council decreed that all 
student activities under its control 
should be held responsible for the 
cost of activities keys presented 
by their respective organizations. 
This motion was passed by Council 
as a measure to prevent the 
promiscuous giving of keys to per
sons who are not entirely deserv
ing and as a means of reducing the 
expenses which are being imposed upon it this year.That Carnegie is to take part in the annual Welfare Drive, a drive 
sponsored by the combined charitable organizations In the Pittsburgh district, was also decided at this meeting. This drive which was 
held on the campus last year, will be the only one of its kind to be sponsored by the school.The use of Thistlo Hall was granted to Cwens for a tea dance on October 19 and to Phi Mu Alpha for the same purpose on October 26. Permission was given to the Womens Athletic Association to hold a swimming party.
Thistle Staff Issues
Call For Candidates
Freshmen who wish to be candidates for positions on the business staff of the Carnegie Thistle should report some time this week to either Eugene R. Treasure, business manager of the annual, at the Theta Xi house, or to Mr. Davis in the Y. M. C. A. office.The positions open are on the circulation and advertising staffs. All positions lead to silver activity keys for two years service, gold keys for four years .service .and salaried positions in the students senior year. ________________
THE SURROUNDING WORLD
By JOE ADAMS
This is the first of a series of weekly articles concerning out
standing current events in the United States and the rest of the world.
casions. For example, in his speech at Butte, Montana, on the silver problem he promises to call
As the Presidential campaign swings into its height we find the Republicans and Democrats fighting it out to see who can say the least in the most words and the Socialists wiggling around in an attempt to get a word in edgewise. Ogden Mills, keynoter for Herbert 
Hoover, lias been saying a lot about the different plans fostered by the, Republicans for placing money into circulation and yet has forgotten to account for the Treasury deficit in a reasonable manner. Calvin Coolidge, who has delayed saying anything about either candidate has finally made the following statement in placing his O. K. on Hoover, He deserves reelection for what he has done and for what he has prevented. We know he is safe and sound."The Republicans hail this statement as significant because Coolidge is known as a man who does not support a candidate merely on account of political affiliations. 
On the other hand, when one analizes the statement it becomes meaningless, incoherent and vague.While Herbert Hoover has been having his cohorts do most of the talking, confining himself to three speeches, the first of which was given at Des Moines, Iowa, on October 4, we find Franklin D. Roosevelt, the Democratic candidate who has strayed from the folds of Republicanism which sheltered his more illustrious relative, has been talking a blue streak all over the country and making a lot 
of equivocal statements as well as contradicting himself on many ocan international silver conference and a few minutes later declares that a sound currency must be maintain ed. The statem ents are absolutely contradictory. It is true that Roosevelt talks about many tilings which should be done; but the trouble is that he does not even hint as how to accomplish them.Charles Curtis, the running mate of Hoover, has been silenced since his unfortunate keynoting speeches in Pennsylvania. Meanwhile John Nance Garner, Roosevelts partner, who is to be remembered as the man who gave up his chances of the Presidential nomination to run with Roosevelt after a confab with William Gibbs McAdoo. who was supposed to be as extinct as a Dodo in political circles until he popped up in time to break the deadlock at the last Democratic convention, is carrying a silencer along with him on his campaigning trips to keep him from making unfounded statements and promises such as lie made in the beginning of the campaign.On looking into the platforms of the major parties we find them almost exactly alike. The Republicans promise the quickest relief one day and the Democrats the next. Both parties handle the prohibition problem in similar manner although the Democratic repeal platform was stronger than the Republican at the offset. However, of late, the Republicans have 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Physicists Carry 
On Experiments 
In Thesis Work
Extensive experimentation in the'fields of heat, sound, light and 
static electricity is being carried on by a group of senior physicists, under the direction of Prof. H. 
S. Hower in the i>reparation of theses for the bachelor of science degree.
More advanced work is being done by Thomas C. Hower 32 who is making a study of the applicar 
tion of infra-red radiation in photoelasticity. Mr. Hower is working for his masters degree.
The undergraduate students and the nature of their work are as follows: Ivan Gazdik and Frank O. Mortloclc are studying the transmission of various wave forms through conducting bars; Julius I-Ialpern and Russell Myer are designing a new type of static machine for a million volts D. C.. Thomas J. ODonnell, Jr. and Vincent E. Thornburg are making a study of the harmonics in the output of a thermionic vacuum tube 
oscillator: J. S. Paul is designing a cosmic ray counter; Anthony Camvale and Oscar LeRoy Hay are studying the properties affecting the thermal endurance of zincborosilicate; Irving Bazel is observing the infra-red absorption by certain metallic vapors; and Edward L. McCandless and Russell E. Stermer are investigating the application of the photronic 
cell in heterochromatic photometry.
Many New Books 
Received By Hut
Two hundred new books have recently been placed on the shelves 
in the Hut, Carnegie campus library.
The works of several well-known writers are among the new additions. A number of the books deal with modern questions such as, "Is Capitalism Doomed? by Lawrence Dennis; The Paradox of Plenty, by Harper Leech, and "Bolshevism, Fascism, and Capitalism, by G. S. Count. M. H. Cochran has written a new book, Germany Not Guilty in 1914. "Convicting the Innocent, by E. M. Bourchard, is also in the collection.To the list of books on drama is a work by Hubert Osburn, former head of Department of Drama at Carnegie. Mr. Osburns book is The Songs of Solomon. O. M. Fayler has edited two volumes, Eleanora Duse Plays and Moscow Art Theater Plays. Other books are "Stage Favorites of the Eighteenth Century by Lewis Melville, and The Romance of the American Theater by M. C. Crawford.Two of the new books are, A Short History of Stupidity by W. B. Pitkin and The Art of Being a Woman by Olga Knopf.
MRS. CARNEGIE VISITS U. S.
Mrs. Andrew Carnegie, widow of the founder of Carnegie and the Carnegie Institute, arrived in New York last Sunday to visit relatives. She lives in Skibo Castle in Scotland.
Freshmen Will Elect 
Class Officers In All 
Colleges Next Tuesday
Delta Skull Dance 
Will Be Tomorrow
Will Ryshanek and his National Broadcasting Chain Orchestra will play at the Delta Skull Tea Dance tomorrow afternoon, from 4 to 6, in Thistle 
Hall.
The committee headed by James E. Halferty is planning for a capacity crowd of freshmen and upperclassmen at this second Tea Dance of the semester.Tickets may be purchased at the dance or from the members of Delta Skull, junior class mens honorary, or from Mr. Davis at the Y. M. C. A. office. A single price of 35 cents will be charged for all students.Delta Skull, the sponsors of this dance, choose their members from the junior class on the basis of activities and personality. They have charge of all General Assemblies and the Men's Junior Prom.
M. M. C. C. Senior Class 
To Elect Council 
Representative
PLURALITY SYSTEM 
AGAIN IN OPERATION
Billy Weixel 
Re-signed For 
W. & J. Dance
Next Saturday Affair 
Is Third Of Kind 
This Year
Billy Weixel and His Famous Band received such an ovation at the football dance last Saturday night that the committee in charge of the Washington and Jefferson Carnegie dance next Saturday evening in Thistle Hall has booked his orchestra to play at the third football dance of the present school year. Many who attended last Saturdays affair acclaimed Billy Weixels orchestra one of the best that has ever played for these traditional football dances.
True to predictions, his music makers turned actors last Saturday and presented several novelty acts with musical accompaniment.
The smiling baton wielder will have his broadcasting orchestra, which has played for such affairs as the Intercollegiate Ball in the Hotel William Ponn last Christmas, the Indiana State College Interfraternity Formal, the Slippery Rock State Junior Prom, and the University of Pittsburgh College Association Formal, on deck at 9:00 and will play until 12:00. The admission price will remain at the customary fee of $1.00 a couple.Invitations have been extended to members of the W. & J. football squad and student body to attend the dance. As usual, the Carnegie football squad will be admitted free of charge.
Carnegie Song To 
Be Heard On Radio
The Fox Film Company of New York recently petitioned Student 
Council for the use of the song, Fight for the Glory of Carnegie, which was written by Robert Schmertz 21 and arranged by Adolph Herzberg 21. The request is the fifth of its kind received by council during the last year.
The song has been heard over the radio on the Texaco Oil Company program with Ed Wynn and has been played at various times by such orchestras as those of Rudy Vallee and Kay Kaiser, 'i'he last request by the Fox Film Company was for permission to use it on some of their broadcasts.Mr. Schmertz, who wrote the 
song while a student at Carnegie, presented Student Council with the copyright when he graduated, By a motion of council Mr. Schmertz will receive the proceeds derived from all uses of the song up to the present time. The motion also stated that any further benefits from the use of the song are to be enjoyed by the council. At a recent meeting Student Council appointed James E. Stahl 33 chairman of a special committee to establish a price for future use of the song.
Tartan and Puppet 
Programs on WWSW
The third Tartan Campus Notes" program of the year will be given over Station WWSW next Monday at 5:45. John W. Ladd, editor-in-chief of the Tartan, will give the latest news notes from the campus.Bill Lazarus and his Puppeteers will give their fourth program of the year next Thursday^at 7:45 over the same station. The comic staff has 
arranged some special skits for 
this broadcast.
Polls To Be Open From 
11:30 To 1:30, Student 
Council To Preside
See Last Page for Complete 
List of Nominations
The annual election of 17 fresh
man class officers in the colleges 
of Engineering and Industries, 
Margaret Morrison, and Fine Arts 
and a special election in the junior 
and senior classes of Margaret 
Morrison will be held next Tues
day.
Members of Student Council will 
preside at the polls which will bo 
open from 11:30 until 1:30 in tho 
colleges of Industries, Fine Arts, 
and Margaret Morrison.
The plurality system of voting, 
adopted by Council last year, will 
be in effect. Under this plan the 
voter chooses but ono candidato 
for each position. The person re
ceiving the highest number of 
votes is declared tho winner. Un
der the old preferential system tho 
voter indicated Ills order of choice 
of three candidates. Second and 
third choice votes then had to bo counted and tho resultant complication ended in tho adoption of the more simple system.Tho freshman of each collego will elect a president, secrotary, and treasurer. Tho presidential candidate polling socond highest number of votes will be declared vice president.In the special election in Margaret Morrison tho senior class will olect a representative to Student Council and the junior class will choose three assistant secretaries one of whom will be named secretary of Student Council next year.
Drawing Exhibit 
To Open Art 
Gallery Soon
The Department of. Fine Arts 
of Carnegio Institute, will open Its 
1932-1933 season of exhibitions 
with a public showing of drawings 
from Thursday, October 13 to Sat
urday, October 27. The entire collection of drawings at the Insti
tute were reframed in a uniform manner during the past summer and will be presented to the public for the first time in some years.On Tuesday, October 18, the Institutes collection of lithograph** will be placed on exhibition, and will remain open until Friday, December 30.
Fourteen exhibitions have been 
scheduled to date, the most Important of which is the International Exhibition Paintings owned in Pittsburgh. Through the gener
osity of Pittsburgh collectors wlm 
have purchased paintings from the Internationals about 150 paintings will be shown, dating from 1896 to 1932.
The exhibitions which follow the October 18 opening of drawings are as follows: International Exhibition Faintings ; the works of Alumni of the College of Fine 
Arts; and the paintings of David G. Blythe.
Delta Tau Delta Will 
Hold Open House Hop
Delta Tau Delta, Carnegie social fraternity, will hold an open house dance at their chapter house, 630 Clyde Street, for members of all fraternities on the Carnegie campus on Saturday from 9:04) to 12:00.Will Ryslianeks NBC, KDKA Orchestra has been engaged by tho chapter to furnish music for tho occasion.
COMING EVENTS
Tuesday, Chapel, 12:30, Llttlo Theater. Speaker, Dr. Edwin J. Van Etten.
Wednesday, Delta Skull Tea Dance, Thistle Hall, 4 to C.
Y. W. C. A. Supper Meeting, Recreation Hall, Margaret Morrison College, 5:30. Speaker, Prof- Kenyon on "Green Pastures. Negro Male Quartet.
Friday, W. A. A. Swimming Party, Carnegie Pool, 8:30 to 10:30.
Saturday, W. & J. Football Game, Stadium, 2 o'clock.
W. & J. Football Dance, Thistle Hall, 9 to 12.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. OCTOBER 11, 1932
Skibos Score 19-0 Victory 
In Game With W. Rese
intramural 
Swim Planned
Womens Athletics by Gloria Kloos
Nature in the raw has changednounce the coming tennis match
Delti
DeltaSk uncaWienc BTomWae
r wdPpP ugsRAhuRG m
BONER
pdu ygJpuH GpApuG 
JG CPBApuH Jg pdu 
puOwuRAgBu NPgu
Fllw the Teassa
Chesterfields are Milder, They Taste Better
the things smokers want most in a cigarette
I
N CHESTERFIELD there is no harshnessno bitterness. 
They are made from ripe, sweet Domestic tobaccos and the 
right amount of Turkish. The taste and aroma are just right.
icharhdDyhen
( TticC arnnegg ^ Mmeus blyoppl wlh
pdu
PLAID SPORTS 
SCREEN
BY JOE BRONSON
WESTERN RESERVES BOB CATS PUT UP A SCRAPPY FIGHT on Saturday afternoon in old League Park, but they were not quite strong enough to withstand the Tartan attack which netted nineteen points in the second half. It was a 19-0 victory, not impressive to be sure, but nevertheless a victory, and will go down in the books as such. All of which put the 1932 team only one victory behind last year's record. The Plaid offense showed a slight Improvement over that displayed in the Genova contest a week earlier. It is not the finished product one would expect to see in November, but nevertheless, it is coming right along and we believe It is going to get some place. This Carnegie eleven seems to be carrying on an age-old tradition of the Institution. For as far back as we can remember the Tartan teams have received numerous penalties which at times have been hard to take. In these past tv/o engagements Bob Waddell's boys have been set back approximately two hundred yards. Two hundred yards is a lot of ground to lose; and against a first-class opponent it would probably mean the difference between victory and defeat. In Saturdays game it caused the Tartans two touchdowns in the first half. Twice within this half the Skibos had come within five yards of the Bob Cats goal line only to lose a score by an inopportune penalty. So far, it has not meant defeat but it would be pretty bad if it happenedlet us sayagainst 
Notre Dame or Pitt.
Carnegie And 
W.&J. Resume 
Old Grid Feud
DEFENSIVELY THE TARTANS ARE GOOD. In fact they are unusually good in his department o the game. Last years team which was supposedly mediocre lost only one game by more than one touchdown and there were some strong opponents who faced the Plaid. In Saturdays game, Western Reserve was able to gain only four first downs against eighteen for Carnegie, and three of those four were the result of passes. Only once did the Bob Cats manage to get past midfield and that was in the last quarter when they got up to the twenty-five- yard stripe. Ray Tesser and Joe Milim gave as classy an exhibition of punting as the Cleveland fans have seen in a long time. On one occasion Tesser kicked the ball from midfield, and put it out of bounds on the one-yard stripe. Mihm from a little closer up did the same trick and a little later rolled one up to the three-yard mark where the receiver was downed. The old end around play was working as in the days of Cy Mefort and Ted Rosenswelg. Colin Stewart took that old pigskin on several occasions and when he did he certainly went places. In fact, he was one of the best ground gainers of the afternoon. Gergie Porgie ICavel was crashing that line as of yore, and scored two of the three touchdowns. Bill Spisalc clipped off two of the longest runs of the game and showed that his performance against Geneva was not a 
. matter of luclc.
STRANGE AS IT MAY SEEM the campus chatter which sifts into Pittsburgh from little Washington has it that the Prexies from W.J. -expect to take Carnegie, and the information is even more uncomplimentary because they expect to take us in stride and are not even worrying about it. Coach Hank Day, former Washington, Pa., High School coach, has a much stronger team than last year, but if we were in his shoes we would think it over quite a bit before we made such a statement. Tis true that the Tartans have emerged victorious in but throe of the eighteen contests which have taken place between th two schools, and that the Prexies have been a Jinx for the Plaid, but for some reason or other we have a feeling that when the final whistl blows the Skiboes are going to be at the long end of the score. But regardless of the score, it is going to be one thrilling game. Hank Days offense consists of a variety of spinners^ reverses, delayed bucks and tricky passes which should be beautiful to watch, and the Tartans have never been noted for playing any too orthodox a game themselves. But for W. & J. to make their offense effective their line must hold long enough for their backs to go through their hidden ball antics behind the line until the ball carrier finally gets the ball, but by that time we think that there will be a Tartan or two through the line who will be the proverbial monkey wrench in the Prexies ma
chinery. We are hoping so anyhow.
FUTURE TARTAN OPPONENTS GAVE CARNEGIE COACHES WADDELL AND STEFFEN something to think about on Saturday afternoon by the way they ran up scores against their opposition. The Pitt Panther gave Duquesne a jolt in their rise to fame by thoroughly trouncing the Bluilltes 33-0. The way Jock Sutherland throws a team together without apparent materialoh yeaIs no ones business. With the exception of one man his whole varsity line gone from last yoar yet ho sprouts out with a brand new team which seems more powerful than last years. Well, we will pick Pitt to trounce Army this week. The Galloping Irish are nt it again and seem to have felt little the loss of several All-Americans. They took the Haskell Indians over by the lopsided score of 73-0. It must be nice to have a fourth string fullback who can score two touchdowns. New York University trimmed Rutgers 21-0 and Temple defeated West Virginia ] 1-13. It looks like heavy work for the next few Saturdays.
WE CANNOT LET THIS CHANCE GO WITHOUT PAYING A TRIBUTE TO ALONZO STAGG, one of the oldest coaches in the game and who coached Wnlly Steffen when he was at the University of Chicago. It must have given him a thrill that In his first appearance at Yale since his graduation forty-four years ago his own team should ho d the favored Yale outfit to a 7-7 tic, and not only do that but completely -outplay and outfight the Yale Bull Dog. Stagg is known as one of the finest figures In the sport world and has worked consistently for the 
betterment of football. _________ . ________________________
ALUMNI NEWS
Many alumni have already requested tickets for the Carnegie- Notro Dame game at South Bend, 
Indiana, on October 22. The price of tickets will be $3.30 and may be obtained at the Graduate Managers ollice or at the game. From present indications a large number of alumni may be expected to attend.
Arrangements have been made with the Pennsylvania Railroad for a special train to leave Pittsburgh at 11:30 p. m., Eastern Standard Time, on October 21 and arrive at South Bend at 6:50 a. m., Central Time, October 22. Returning, this train will leave South Bend at 10:00 p. m., Central Time, October 22 and arrive in Pittsburgh at 7:30 a. m., Eastern Standard Time, October 23. The round trip fare will cost $13.92. Extra charges will be made for pullman service.Cincinnati Clan The Cincinnati Clan will hold an open meeting on Saturday evening, October 22, at the Alms Hotel in Cincinnati. The evenings program will include cards and luncheon.Saturday evening was selected in 
order that alumni from surrounding 
districts will attend this meeting. The Clan is planning to organize a largo group to attend the Car* negle-St. Xavier game on Novem
ber 12.All alumni are invitod to attend this and are also urged to get in touch with the following Cincinnati Clan ofllcers with regard to the St. Xavier game:PresidentW. M. Ball, Jr., 3328 
Avery Lone.Vico presidentDonald Du Vali, 701 Fourth National Bank Building.Secretary - Treasurer  M. C. Scliwerba, c/o Worthington Pump fc Machinery Co., 150-1 First National Building, Cincinnati.Graduate Notes George Aderliold, a 1923 night school graduate of the Practical Chemistry course, in partnership with another engineer operates the Saxonburg Pottery Company at Saxonburg, Pa., where he produces crucibles and other wares for lab
oratory use.This past summer Aderhold and his partner constructed a solar furnace ten feet in diameter, capable of producing a heat of 5000
eserve
Veteran Prexy Team 
To Face Tartans 
This Saturday
The presidential situation, as far 
as Carnegie adherents are con
cerned, reaches culmination this 
Saturday over in the Stadium when 
Washington and Jefferson College 
presents her 1932 platform. The 
Presidents return to Pittsburgh for 
their perennial Tartan battle 
boasting a veteran team, a brand 
new coach, and a jinxone of the 
best-cultivated and most tenacious jinxes ever hung on a Skibo athletic team.W. & J. is Carnegies second oldest rival and the coming game marks the eighteenth meeting of the two schools on the gridiron. Hostilities began in 1906 when Car
negie football was in the prep school class, and of the six games played up until 1919, W. & J. was always the victor. Then came that memorable day in 1920 when an inspired Skibo aggregation rose -to great heights in the muddy, rain- soaked Bowl and trounced a mighty Wasli-Jeff team 6-0. Since then this infamous "jinx has reared its ugly head in almost 
every game and snatched victory from the Plaid grasp. Only the great Tartan teams of 28 and 30 have been able to defeat W. & J., regardless of the latter's comparative strength. The records to date show three Tartan victories, three ties and 12 losses to the Prexies.The coach, Leroy (Hank). Day, is starting his career as a college mentor with W. & J., after sixteen years as one 'of the most successful high school coaches in Western Pennsylvania. Days system is built around the fullback with deception as the prime mover. Whether or not he will be able to have his methods working smoothly by Saturday remains to be seen.Of the team that upset Carnegie last season, all are back save Ri; ney (whose run after intercepting a pass beat Tech), Demas and McNeil all linemen, and Stew Wilson fullback, whose field goal last year cinched the victory. This years starting lineup so far, has been Milco and Rittersbaugh, terminals, Armstrong and Dalyrymple at the tackle posts with J. Fife and Bubenheim guards, and Gray cen
ter. The backfield lines up with G. Shaffer or Port at quarter, Zagray and Rometo at the halves and either Demedowitz or Deacle at fullback.In their opening game, W. & J. battered a strong West Virginia Wesleyan team into 20-0 submission, with Bob Deacle in the hero role. However, the Prexies returned home from Michigan Friday, smarting under a 7-0 dose of 
defeat administered by Gus Dorais Detroit Titans. The Letrolt game showed that Days system lias not yet begun to click and their recent loss will, In all probability, serve to spur the Presidents in a manner which bodes ill for Carnegie.
Big Red Team Is Held 
To Scoreless First 
Half By Reserve
SAMPLE, KAVEL AND 
STEWART STAND OUT
Red Cats Offer Stubborn 
Resistance As Scotch 
Score Second Win
The old Tartan powerhouse was 
forced to turn on full steam against 
a scrappy Western Reserve combine last Saturday, but inefficiency due to long and frequent penalties, cut down scoring production in the first half to a minimum. No less than three times in that first session did Carnegie advance right up to the goal, and three times were they set back through-faults purely their own. The second half, though still sprinkled with a plen- titude of penalties, showed the Plaid offense functioning better and resulting in the three scores 
which meant the 19-0 victory.Carnegies first scoring opportunity came after an end-around play with Stewart toting the ball, and a pass, Bevevino to Kavel, each gained 25 yards. Holding set the Skibos back at this juncture hut Keady's short kick gave the Big Red team another chance 
which was also dissipated away via penalties.By the time the second half started, Carnegie rooters were really worried. These fears were short-lived, however, as the Tartans steadily moved down the field with Kavel finally pushing the ball over. The second score came at the beginning of the last quarter, largely as a result of a beautiful 30-yard run by Spisak. Kavel, a 
few plays later, turned left end for the score. The last touchdown came after a short 32-yard march and this time Sayles lugged the 
pigskin over the final mark. The game ended with Tech in possession of the ball, headed for an
other six-pointer.The Tartan offense in the Reserve game showed somewhat of an improvement over the ragged showing made against Geneva, but there are still plenty of rough spots to be ironed out before Carnegie is ready for W. & J. Penalties, such as were incurred in Cleveland, would be nothing short 
of disastrous' in an important game.
For the courageous Clevelanders, who are going great guns under Coach Keady, the game, because 
of the scoreless first half, was a moral victory. The Red Cats are sure to be a power among the Ohio Conference teams this year. Spisak, Stewart and' co-captains Sample and Kavel played prominent 
parts in the victory, while Christman, Colvin and Kremer especially outdid themselves for Reserve.
"Sophomore Blues signifies more now than the title of a song hit. It also designates the type of trousers officially adopted by the UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA as the correct dress for second year students. The freshmen now have their dinks, the seniors their cords, and the sophomores their "Sophomore Blues.
Skibo Plebes 
Open Season 
On Saturday
Meet. Pitt F reshmen At 
The Stadium In 
First Game
As a preliminary to the varsity game with W. & J. this Saturday, the Carnegie Tech Plebes will open their season with the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh Freshmen in the Stadium at 12:15. The game will play in the Stadium of the weather is clear but if it is raining the game will be held in the Carnegie Bowl.
This will be the first game for each team and it is likely that the team emerging victorious in this contest will have an undefeated season. The rivalry between the two freshmen teams is almost as 'great as that of the two varsities. For the past two years the games have ended in scoreless ties.
Coach Murray Armentrout. has been working hard for the past few weeks in an endeavor to get his men in shape for the opening contest. The material this year is not as plentiful as usual but in spite of this the Big Train expects to put a fighting team on the field. The team received a severe blow when Bowser, star backfield performer, dislocated a shoulder forcing him off the team for the season. Coach Armentrout has not decided upon his starting lineup but will wait and see how the individuals show up in practice this week.
For This Fall
Representatives Will 
Discuss Plans At 
5:15 To-Day
Because of a difficult conflict with the Inter-Fraternity, Dormitory, and Inter-Class basketball compe
tition, the Intramural Swimming Meets are to be held this fall instead of in the spring, as they have been in past years. Besides the change in date, attractive plans for new rulings in the swimming meets are being made, wherein a series of preliminaries will be run, in number depending upon the number of organizations entered, from which events the two winning places will qualify for finals. The new ruling, which is to be voted upon by representatives of the competing organizations, will permit the scoring of points to the fourth place in the preliminary matches towards the final scoring. Thus, although only two swimmers from each preliminary will be allowed to enter the final matches, the holders of third and fourth places will receive points, and the total points scored in both the preSwimmers Report 
At the Gymnasium
All aspirants for the Varsity swimming team and candidates for Freshman and Varsity managership are to report to the Trophy Room, in the Gymnasium, at 4:30 today. Freshman swimmers will repeat Thursday, at 4:30, to the Trophy Room for the try-outs. The 
schedules of the swimming meets for both teams will be announced in an early issue of the Tartan.
ime
ALL EXPENSES TRIP
Includes BUS TRANSPORTATION (Round Trip) HOTEL ACCOMMODATION TICKET TO GAME TWO MEALS
Leave Pittsburgh Friday Night.
Leave South Bend Sunday Morning.
Information and Reservations at 
Tartan Office.
Tour Conducted by Pittsburgh 
Travel-Service Bureau.
degrees Fahrenheit. This was accomplished by using polished clironium steel metal to form a reflector which converged the rays of the sun into a space about a foot in diameter ten feet away from the reflector. The furnace was built in connection with experiments in fusing zirconia, a high test resisting material for laboratory crucibles, which requires at present carbon arc furnaces.
Oltrado John Lisotto, 32, recently won a place on the faculty of a Chinese University because of his skillful work in making masks on the faces of living people. Mr. Lisotto, who is a graduate of the Department of Sculpture, became interested in making the masks while working on the decorations of the Chinese Rooms of the Cathedral of Learning last year.
Kieuw Vang, who supervised the work of decorating the room obtained a place for Mr. Lisotto as a 
teacher of sculpture at the University of Peking.Mr. Lisottos masks were displayed at the "Depression Art Show on the lawn of the Hotel Sclienley.
J. C. Sanford, a former student at Carnegie, has been promoted to the office of district manager of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company, with headquarters In Pittsburgh. Sanford, a resident of Pittsburgh for twenty-five years, has risen steadily from student salesman to district manager.
Bethany College lias abandoned all admission charges to athletic contests. President Goodnight says, "We want our friends to see our team on the field because they are made up of bona fide college students, and we shall not continue to parado them like prize horses at the country fair."
A coed was seen leading six cows to a southern college.
What I wouldnt give to meet an 
intellectual cow.Statistics show that the scholastic standing of women college stu
dents is higher than that of men.Well maybe so, but men can still 
I excell them in football.
^uWSmS
mm
Delt
EEmSmD e
DDMMJMYJDE
FL 2 0
WmMBmmSe fr r
MS
aSDku
W
^u
 
99pi
F
from rough to rougher since the 
plebe girls donned rompers and 
sneaked out on the cut to officially 
open the hockey season. Those of 
us who have strolled down the walk after late classes during the past week have seen some vigorous matches that made us remember our own rough and tumble days as plebes. We were ever fearful lest a few casualties, like those sustained by a sophomore 
who fell in the thorn bushes might result from the scrimmage. There is still time to try out for the hockey teams though, and all 
freshman are urged to attend instruction classes every Tuesday and Thursday afternoons.That fancy sign on the Maggie Murph bulletin board is to auIiminary and final meets will count for the Championship.In order to discuss this plan an important meeting will be called today at 5:15 for the representative members of the fraternity, dormitory and class organizations.
The Intramural Swimming Meets will be held beginning October 31. They are open to all registered students in the day school, except those who have won points on either the Plebe or Varsity teams during the past season. There will be a cup for the fraternity, 
dormitory or class winning the greatest number of points. This trophy shall be the property of
Hurry up and play off your doubl before the snow arrives. Ai dont forget that all who reach tl 
semi-finals will be awarded for points toward their letter.
With a bright new bulls e; ornamenting the hay easel in tl valley of tennis courtland tl usual exodus has begun for Ar and Maggie Murph archers. Tl practices are informal and yr may shoot whenever you have ; opportunity. Instructions are I 
ing given for freshmen and t classes count as practices. Lo on the bulletin boards for notie or ask the Archery manager, Be Lowrey. Don't be embarrassed 
the audience on the hill while 5 are learning. These men are so hot at shooting arrows the selves sometimes.
that organization which wins it 1 one year. The first to win the c three times retains permanent p session of it. The cup was gs last year by the Delta Tau giving them a two-tliirds claim 
permanent ownership.
HOW TO AVOID
P
OOR BILL BONER-he just 
cant think straight. He thinks 
a person is safe from contagious 
disease if he is intoxicated!
But no college man ever pulls 
boners with a good pipe between his 
teeth. There's something about a 
pipe and tobacco that soothes a man, 
helps him think straight. That is, of 
course, if he uses the right tobacco. 
A recent investigation showed Edgeworth to be the favorite tobacco at 
lf2 out of 5U leading colleges.
If youre not already an Edgeworth 
smoker, theres new smoking satis
faction waiting for you. Edgeworths 
blend of fine old burleys is distinc
tive, different. Youll know  after 
the first puff.
You can buy Edgeworth tobac< 
anywhere in two formsEdgewori 
Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Ph 
Slice. All sizes 15pf pocket packaj, 
to pound humidor tin. Or, if you 
would like to try before you buy, 
write for a free sample packet. Address 
Larus & Bro. Com
pany, 120 S. 22d 
St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH SMOKING TQBACCC
.... IT'S TIME TO
IGHT-THIRTY P. M. is the time to telephone 
home!
The days rush is over; the nights still young. Theres 
plenty of time for a newsy, intimate chat. The fam
ilys at home, eager to hear your voice. (Theyll he 
there for sure if you telephone a3 a regular habit, the 
same time each week.)
What is more, it is cheapest to telephone after b 
P. M. That is when the low Night Rates go into efi 
on Station to Station calls. For 45c you can then t 
as far as 140 miles away!
Ye3, its surprisingly inexpensive, as these typic 
rates show. But be sure you nxake a Station to Static 
call. Just give your home telephone number to tl 
operator and hold the line. If you like, the charg< 
can be reversed.
From Pittsburgh to:
Akron, Ohio ........... $0.65Bradford ....................... .85Cleveland, Ohio .... .80Johnstown ................... .45Youngstown, Ohio ... .15
Station to Station Call 
3-Minutc Connection Wherever applicable 
Federal tax ia included.
Day Rate Night Rate
$0.35 .15
O43

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 19323
Recommended by the English Department 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology
Wefosterslj i Collegiate
niftfTlio nest Abridged Dictionary bcCJIUSO it Is biusecl upon WEBSTERS NEW INTElt- NAIIONAL'Ilie Supreme Authority. ^lw!m^MfmKS/SSsX Were la a companion for your hours of 
'MwWmlll rending and study that will prove its r Vil*uo every timo you consult It for 
**1C wealth of ready information that *s instantly yours.  i
106,000 words and phraioa witll defl- /
ov nition8, etymologies, pronuncia- ///tions, and use in its 1,260 pugca. 1,700 k _^illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography /Ilk and geography; rules of punctuation; use of capital, //i r abbreviations, etc.; a dictionary Of foreign phrases; and other ///A helpful special features. ///M
See it at /our College Bookstore or Write for Informa- /Vjttf] tion to the Publishers. Free specimen pages if you /Mi 3911 ^ name this jmper. yxxa l|||
^G.&C.MERRIAM |l|
SpringSieUd, Mass.
AVENUE
I J f . V1 a-m to 1 P-m- ^laUn 1 25c
809 Liberty Avenue Evenings 40c 
Art Knows No Class Nor Creed"
BEG. MONDAY, OCT. 10, nt 11 n. m.
RENE CLAIRS
Crowning Achievement
A Nous La OSserte
An exuberant satire on modern love, industrial life, and human society, in a dazzling, tuneful, musical farce! 
Easily understood without the 
slightest knowledge of French.
THE
FORT DEARBORN 
MASSACRE
"Nature in the Rawas 
portrayed by the artist, N. C. 
Wyeth . . . inspired by the 
heartless treachery of a band 
of vicious Miami Indians, 
who massacred the settlers 
with inhuman ferocity ...
August 15, 1812.
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
ample resources and 
the services of ex
perienced officers are 
available to our de
positorsOakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Registration Ordeal Works 
Havoc Among New Students
Preponderance of Cards, Questions, Milling Crowds, 
Eagle Eyed Inspectors, Snatching Hands, And 
Machines Undermine New Students Morale
Registration days have come and 
gone, and with, them has passed into history an experience that, to the new student at least, was a -nightmare. Unless we are greatly mistaken this years registration was a nightmare to the front office also. But lets drop that part of the subject and proceed with 
what we started out to say. To the old timers who have been attending night school l'or several years, going through the registration line is a necessary though inconvenient formality. To the new student this procedure outranks the horrors of an inquisition. The ordeal not only breaks down the physical stamina but makes a mental wreck of a once proud youth. Let us out Sherlock Sherlock and not only follow some students about to register for the first time but to actually become these students both physically and mentally.
Registration might is here; we 
must register; where do we go; what do we do? A discreet question here and there directs us to the Arts Building for our course is given there. We must see the head of the department and make out a schedule. Very well, what do we want to takelets see now. Oh! this cant be so had, a kindly department head sets us entirely at ease and we finally work out a schedule and now we are ready to go downstairs and get our registration cards and proceed on ouv way. We make our way down to a large room that is dazzling with its splendor meanwhile passing other would-be students with a bewildered air about them and we congratulate ourselves at having sailed along so smoothly. On entering the room mentioned we are directed to a large tahle where we are given a long registration card to fill out and in addition to that several smaller cards called class 
coupons. But this long one seems so unnecessary. All we do is to~ 
write the same dope over and over again. That finished, we hope nothing has been missed, but how could we, isnt our whole pedigree down on the card. Gee! that is finished and then we are told to 
go over to the Gymnasium building to complete the registration. After several more questions this building is finally located and we enter with a feeling of misgivings.
At the door we are met by someone who snatches the long card from us and hurriedly glances over it"Sorry Bud, but you left out this part of the coupon, go over there and finish it. Gosh, he must 
he eagle eyed. How did we miss that? Another inspection and everything is O. K. We proceed on our way up a roped-in aisle when suddenly we are stopped agaim I-Tmly smoke, what have we forgoten now? Nothing, just more cards, more inspection, more questions, and then we are told to go on. But where do we go? what do we do? we have so many cards now that we are at a complete loss what to do with them. Here sir, Ill take those, says a pleasant voice. Turning wre see a pretty girl and a sigh of relief escapes us. We see several more girls, and then we feel much better, but as we are shunted from one to another, each doing something to the cards we carry along we are more and more bewildered.
A feeling of absolute helplessness overcomes us. Suddenly a hand takes more of the cards from us and upon looking around we are confronted by a man standing in front of a machine that seems to play tricks with the card as he pushes it all over the place. He then tells us that our course costs so much and takes the money we 
proffer and then hands back the correct change as he points the way on to the next table. As we stand there so bewildered that we cannot move, a pleasant voice asks us for our class coupons. What are they? We dont know. We lay all the cards on the table bridge fashionand let her take her pick. Selection finished, she stamps them and hands some of them back, all the while pleasantly motioning us on and here two smiling individuals take a card out of our hands, stamp it and returns the card with a little green book. Helpless as ever, we stand there and ask, Whats next? Thats all, you go to class next week one of them replies. Yes, but what do we do with all these cards? They reply, your instructor will take them as you report for classes. "Thank you. Turning around we are confronted by an officer who points the way out and blindly we stumble out into the clear night air, both hands full, our head in a whirl. In a few minutes, however, we feel much better and with a ferventThank goodness thats over, we decide to go home.
Council Seeks 
Students For 
Activities Work
In a very short time the various social activities of the Night Student Council, as well as the various colleges, will start. All these events are planned with the idea of providing a breathing spot during a rigorous schedule and to make night school a little more than just "going to school. The success of these affairs depends upon student support and interest. In order to successfully plan and execute these affairs, the men placed in charge of them depend largely upoii the-help given by students.The Night Student Council is very desirous of hearing from students who wish to participate in student activities. Any student who would like to participate in night school activities is requested to send his or her name to the Night Student Council. To encourage such work on the part of the student the Council awards at the end of each school year an insignia indicative of the students participation in activities. A complete explanation of this award is made on page 37 of the night student handbook. Be sure and read it.
When sending your name in, be sure to give your address as well as the college you are attending. Drop your letter in the interschool mail slot or mail it to the Night Student Council, Box 137, Carnegie Institute of Technology, or leave it in the Night Student Council office, Room 144-C, Industries Building, any evening.
Ticket Sales 
Rules Are To 
Be Enforced
Night Students Working 
On Ticket Sales To 
Abide By Rules
For those men who will partici
pate in the selling of tickets for 
the various Night Student Coun
cil dances, we wish to call particu
lar attention to the rule governing 
ticket sales which is printed on 
page 31 of the night student hand
book. It will probably not be 
amiss to quote the entire rule as 
printed in the handbook.
The selling of tickets for points by night students for any social function held by the night student body on the night of the affair, within the vicinity of where the function is held, is prohibited. As points are earned by the sale of tickets, and in justice to all, this 
ruling is made by the Night Student Council. Students can, however, leave their tickets at the door with the parties in charge, to be called for by the prospective customers. Sale of tickets in any other wfay on the night of the affair will1 result in the forfeiture of all points earned for the particular activity. All night students are expected to abide by this ruling.It can readily be seen that this rule will relieve the curb market for tickets which existed in the past a block long on either side of the entrance to the building where the function was being held. Those students who worked diligently in the past among their classmates will now have an added incentive to work, knowing that everybody 
will have to put forth the same effort to earn the same number of points.
Impressions of 
A First Nighter
Will you signal to me when we 
get to Carnegie Tech, Mr. Con
ductor? Oh, youll call the stop, 
thank you.
(Lost in wondering thought) 
Wonder what Tech Is likejust 
one building or severalwill I see big intellectual professors walking around the campuswill they speak to me or just pass me by or perhaps say get out of my way you"will I have difficulty in finding my way aboutwill I act awkward and new?Oh, this is where I get off? thank you. (Again lost in wondering thought) Hmm, I dont see any school around hereit must be up that walkyes I can see some lighted buildingsIll follow the crowdwonder who lives in the mansion on top of that knob bet he doesnt have fo worry about tuition feesAh, what a beautiful sight, that tower in a lovely aura of opalescent red mistwonder how it's donenow where do I go from herethink Ill ask that fellow selling magazines.Pardon me comrade, could you tell me where to register, I want to study art? On the third floor of that building, the southern end? thank you. A Puppet? sure Ill buy one.(Approaching the arts school) What an imposing structurefive great arclieSjentrance through the center arch.So this is the arts schoolhow beautiful and big everything is wonder if I should take my hat off may as well I guess, because theyll: have to get used to my hairless dome eventually anyway.
A Sure 
Foundation
One of the safest foundations 
on which to build your finan
cial independence is a savings 
account. Systematic saving 
begun while you are in college 
will pave the way for a suc
cessful future. Our Savings 
Accounts pny liberal interest 
compounded semi-annually.
OtDDTn gWSeTnWD _Wnz
Pittsburgh, Pa;
Handbooks Ready 
F or Those Wlio Did 
Not Receive Them
Because of circumstances beyond our control the night student handbooks were not available the first night of registration and as a result those students who registered that night did not receive their copy. Every student who registers at night and pays the one dollar activities fee is entitled to a copy of the handbook. Those students who did not obtain their copy are urged to do so at once. They can be obtained any school night at the Night Student Council office upon presentation of your registration card. This book contains much helpful data regarding night school that is of great value to every student. Questions and situations that may arise during the school year, particularly regarding student activiFoundryineii To Hold 
Annual Meeting Mori.
The annual dinner meeting of the Pittsburgh Foundrynien's Association will be held in the Carnegie Inn on Monday, October 17, at 6:30. It has been the custom of the association for many years to bold this fall meeting on the Carnegie campus.After the meeting, by request of the association, Professor Janies Aston, head of the Department of Mining and Metallurgy, will give an illustrated description of the Aston process for the making of brought iron. The lecture will be given in Room 104 in the College of Industries and will be open to students who are interested.
ty, are explained within its pages.
The handbook is published and distributed for your benefit and you are strongly urged to secure a copy and familiarize yourselC with its contents.
FERN GARDEN INNWASHINGTON PIKE AND COCHRAN ROAD
Dancing Every Wednesday and Saturday
---------TO---------
Jerry Jerema and His Rhythm Commanders
DEVIL CRABS 
25c Cover Charge
FRIED CHICKEN SANDWICHES 25cCHOP SUEY 
LEhigh 9040
w
Believe it or not, but the registration period was sans the usual 
turmoil which is always encountered at this time. Why, well you guessed it, the repression repress
ed some of our students from coming out and what a pity. I suplose there were new faces to ?reet those who worked in the reg- itration formality, but the lack of >.e old familiar faces and names who came up among the missing this year was a source of regret. r!iink of the long chain of years vhich a goodly number of our light group attended classesI am 
told some of them come for yearn only to find that because of some difficulty they will be pre
vented from returning this year. What a sad picklement the country is in.There was indeed an Improvement in the system employed, to register the night student body. 
Most everything seemed to be centered in the gymnasium building or Thistle Hall. There was the usual familiar greeting of former student and instructor, meeting 
again for the first time since last spring with the exchange of pleasantry, etc., and then the advice as to what course to take and what 
not to take if one wished to get the best out of the course. That, after 
all, is the most important consideration for our attending night 
school, and a word from one who has gone before is always better than a book from one who comes fte'r, If you get what I mean. At 
i events the instructor knows, or ,iould know, what is best for 
those who are there to be taught. (This from an idle night student means something and I don't mean maybe.) Completing the selection 
of the courses of study and subjects the next consideration was Tuition FeeAh! there we have 
it. I saw in the Tartan that colleges in the west were accepting produce and cattle in payment ot tuition. That sounds interesting, 
especially in this day and age of impression when tlie money question makes such a depression 
on ones exchequer. It was suggested that we might bring in a 
lamb or possible a goat. Wouldnt that be fine. Fritz would then be 
able to park his mowing machiuo indefinitely and all he would have to do would be to plant violets or 
some such ornamental shrub in the arid space which intersects tho quadrangle. Another utilitarian use to be made of the live stock is tuition fee would be the impounding of the animals during the 
evenings to generate heat to be forced through the new pipes in
stalled to heat the various Industries buildings nooks and corners for 1 tell you there are many north pole spots in this building. This is [in Idea which should prove of 
Seated Importance and my rating i tho heating and ventilating capacity should bo A plus.In tho question of tuition fees I In the papers, yes I read the 
apers, that out In the corn husking sections, they are talking of 
using corn trundled from the farms to pay tuition fee. It appears that this Is a revival of an old custom In the early 90's when corn was 
accepted as the tuition fee. The corn was dumped into tho college coa| bins and used for fuel to heat 
tho buildings. There we have It, history repeating itself. Thats a solution for the bumper crops 
which the farmers have to contend with.
Now I want to make a suggestion as to tuition feeit would embody the farm question as well as the Jig industry for which our city is noted. Why not bring pig iron 
iis tuition. The swine from the farms and the iron from the furnaces would make an ideal compromise, both would be served, and the product could be used for our foundry. Or If too much pig iron 
were secured then we could go out to the scrap heap and bring some of the scrap iron.
I note that the people of Pennsylvania are great hunters. It 
doesn't matter in what field you look. Be it educational field or legitimate field, they are foremost. I dont need to talk of our 
educational field, one just has to
Handbooks 
Distributed To 
Night Students
Latest Volume Published 
Contains Valuable 
Information
The eighth volume of the Night Student Handbook, 1932-33 edition, has made its appearance. That this publication is the most complete volume ever compiled can be seen by a study of its contents. Each year the Night Student Council has striven to publish a book that would be as complete as possible, but this years edition has gone farther than  ever. The editor has tried to anticipate any situation that may arise. Explanation of all night student activities occupies a great deal of the handbook contents, and justly so, for this is a phase of night school life that can most easily cause misunderstandings. Every angle lias been carefully explained so that no confusion may arise concerning our night activities. All night students are urged to read this book from cover to cover.In order to help further in bringing the contents of this book before the night student body, the editor has arraigned for publication from time to time, on the Plaid page, portions of the book that will prove of value to the students at large, especially to those students who are registered in night school for the first time. Look for these articles, they are published for your benefit.
DIDJA NOTICE
THAT there was little or no confusion in the registration lines this year in comparison to other years. After viewing the slim lines we are sure 
that everybody concerned would rather have more confusion.THAT a western university 
lias ruled against students having their own cars while attending college and as a result some of the students have taken to 
bicycle riding.THAT unless things turn that elusive corner pretty soon even the bicycle method of transportation will be entirely too extravagant.
THAT if some of the remarks ' made- by some of the dazed 
students as they emerged out of the registration lines were published they would furnish many a laugh.
THAT by this time next week most of us will feel as though we have been attending night school for years and years. Cheer up. The first 
hundred years are the hardest.THAT those boys who handed out the night handbooks on registration night did a great deal of clowning. "Dose guys is nertz.
THAT a great deal of mystery will be on tap during the 
next few weeks with certain events about to take place.THAT some would-be big shots, despite assertions to 
the contrary, are again in our midst. Heres to luck, boys.THAT thats that, and Ill be seenya!
look at the number of schools and colleges and you will find the
answer. The field I wish to referto now is the game field. Pennsyl
vania leads the nation in hunting and Piko County seems to be the 
foremost county of the state. Over ten million dollars revenue was 
secured last year from the hunting industry if it could be calledsuch, and why not. All this infor
mation was secured from the radio, and,
Speaking of radio, guess I better make my exit with So long un
til next weekThat was the Idle Night Student of Station PLAID announcing who will return again 
next week at this same hour. The Tartan bids you all Good Night.
C. S. EOMAN
PRINTER 
6470 Monitor Street
aesMHffiftgjSHHffSgggaSingers fit your hand : : : Pen Repairing
PROGRAMS FAVORS SMALL GIFTS
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Still Time if You Hurry
to get the famous
5 ParLer
Uuqfbld Pen
for only
and an old penor the great over-size
$7 Duofold Sr. Pen
$r*for only and an old pen
Parker reserves the right to end this 
National Trade-in Sale any day!
Tens of thousands of people are trading in old pens of all makes for $1.25 to $2.50 cash in payment for Parkers latest streamlined Duofold Pens, and trading in old mechanical pencils for 75c to $1.00 on the purchase of brand new Parker Duofold Pencils.This National Trade-in Sale by Parker, to make way for late fall and Christmas shipments, is the biggest clearance ever held in the fountain pen industry.These are Parkers latest and smartest colors, including Burgundy and Black, Sea Green and Black, Jade, Plain Black, etc. All have streamlined non- breakable barrelsthe pens with super-smooth, pressureless writing Duofold points, and quick- starting, non-clogging feed.
Take your old pen or pencil to the nearest pen counter before this offer expires and walk out with a beautiful new Parker Duofold Pen, or Duofold Pencil, or both.
The pen you trade in must have a 14k gold point but it does not have to be a Parker. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin. 237
and raw tobaccos 
have no place in cigarettes
"If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better mouse-trap than his neighbor, tho he 
build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door. "RALPH WALDO EMERSON. 
Does not this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lucky Strike?
these fine tobaccos, after 
proper aging and mellowing, 
are then given the benefit of 
that Lucky Strike purifying 
process, described by the 
words"Its toasted. Thats 
why folks in every city, town 
and hamlet say that Luckies 
are such mild cigarettes.
Its toasted
p7WS mWIzWct TE oeD' C8Izet2
They are not present in Luckies 
. . . the mildest cigarette 
you ever smoked
W
E buy the finest, the very 
finest tobaccos in all the 
world  but that does not 
explain why folks every
where regard Lucky Strike as 
the mildest cigarette. The fact 
is, we never overlook the 
truth that "Nature in the 
Raw is Seldom Mildso

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1932
artie Carnegie 3Tatrfau
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00 
After Oflicc Hour Call 
Schcnlcy 943G Sports Editor_____Hazel 9473 I'Inid Editor _Schenlcy 2389
Published weekly during the collcgc year by undergraduates o Carnegio Institute of Technology. Entered in the Pittsburgh Post Oflicc as second-class matter.
EDITOIt-IN-CHIEF------------
BUSINESS MANAGER..NEWS EDITOR________
ATHLETIC EDITOR-------PLAID EDITOR----------------
__________JOHN W. LADD_______JULIUS HALPERN___ELIZABETH PRELLER
____JOSEPH C. BRONSON-EDWARD E. McDONALD
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Copy Editor: Christine Lelghou Alumni Editor: Henrietta SteinbergDolly Allison Exchange Editors: Marjorie DoughertyHorry Hower Ruth Phillips
Assignment Editor: Anthony Carnvale
MANAGING BOARD THIS ISSUE 
Jocquo Minnotte, Samuel Wick, Joseph Adams, Alice Henzi
JUNIOR EDITORS: Joseph AdnmB, Anthony Cacchionc, Loretta Conlin, Aiice Henzi, 
John Hiltz, Edmund McCormick, Samuel Wicks, Jacquc Minnotte.
ATHLETIC STAFF: Gloria ncWWiB Women* Editor; Ned Stirling, John Lowes, James Halferty.
PLAID STAFF: James H. Sansoncttl, News Editor; Frank Casscl, A. N. Evens, H 
E. McGannon.
ADVERTISING STAFF: James E. Stahl, Manager; William Waldman, Assistant; 
Morton Gormise, Loren Kannenberg, John McGrane, 'William McKenna, William 
Sauvary.
CIRCULATION STAFF: William Finnans, Manager; Sidney Feldman, Leonard Rosenberg, Albert Pryce-Jones, Abe Leipzig.
REPORTERS: J. Clifton Carr, Jane Livingston, Herbert Schwarz, Constantino Margaret Grinin, Veronica ICloos, Anna Ladd, Virginia Cooper, Thelma Shelley, Gertrude Breakstone, Jayne Henderson, Peter Paulus, Ruth Cohen, Harold Baer, 
Pauline Bevan, Junnette Black, Miruin Malakoll, Gwen Haddock, Ruth Gustafson, Jane Miller.
TYPISTS: Lucille Jacobs, Ann Kaufman.
Sir George Williams
Eighty-eight years ago today, George Williams, a farm boy 
from the western part of England, found himself in London 
facing the world for the first time. It was yet in the early part 
of the industrial revolution. Conditions in the western world 
were changing.; industry was being transformed; the craftsman 
was being displaced by the factory workerit was a period of 
readjustment. With this change prevailed new moralsor if 
you will, no moralspoor housing conditions in the newly con
gregated cities, lack of wholesome recreation, and evil of every 
sort. This was what George Williams, aged 23, later great 
London merchant and philanthropist, met as he reached London.
Other boys had come to London seeking opportunity in the 
new economic order, but they were not of the same calibre 
as was George Williams. Perhaps they did lament over the 
unsavory conditions, yet they did not have the initiative, nor 
were they sufficiently creative and capable, to do anything about 
them. Williams consulted a few of his friends in London, plans 
were laid, and in 1844, out of these came the first Y. M. C. A. 
In the eighty-eight years of its life, the Y. M. C. A. has spread 
to more than fifty nations and has acquired a membership of 
millions.
In speaking of the founding of the Y. M. C. A., John E. 
Manley, recently elected General Secretary of the National 
Council of the Y. M. C. A., remarks: The call to modern 
youth is for original thinking and acting. Our day has its 
own serious moral, social, economic, political, racial and relig
ious problems. Young men of fine bold spirt, who are not afraid 
to stand on their own convictions, are needed in every city, 
town, and country place to take the lead in building a better 
America. Our youth have always been ready in war to die for 
their country. It is a yet nobler life which is lived courageous 
ly and creatively in days of so-called peace. We need George 
Williamses everywhere. And while the honor of knighthood 
will not be theirs, as it was in the case of Sir George Williams, 
the respect and love of right minded men will be.
The Y. M. C. A., of which, the campus organization is a 
part, has given service in time of war and peace, through de
pression and prosperity, and during sickness and happiness. 
All honor to men who have the ideals to create such organizations with so lofty and unselfish principles in mind._________
Bacchanalians 
Issue Call For 
Campus Talen t
Work Has Commenced 
On Material For Spring 
Carnival Show
The Bacchanalians, sponsors of 
the annual Spring Carnival music
al revue, have issued a call to all students interested In the show to demonstrate their ability. Plans are being made for a general meeting of all students, regardless of department, who would consider participating in the second edition of the revue. The date and place of this meeting are to be announced in an early edition of the Tartan.
Work has already commenced on material for the new show which will also follow the form of a rerue, and as in Tar and Feathers, will deal with current topics in a satirical and amusing manner. Rehearsals this year will begin well in advance of Carnival Week, as it is felt that additional practice will produce a technically better show.
William Bales, a student in the Department of Drama, who staged the dances last year, is the dance director of the production. Following the general meeting of ap
plicants, Mr. Bales will start training the dancers and chorus members in the rudiments of theatrical technique. Later he will take up the more intricate routines with music. ____
The Surrounding 
World
Continued From Page 1
twisted the meaning of their plat
form until it promises repeal as 
quickly as the Democrats. Like
wise the Democrats have borrowed 
some of the Republican ideas. The 
major problem of the economic 
crisis is deftly avoided by both 
parties whenever possible although both parties promise some relief 
by proper handling of the prohibi
tion situation.The Socialists are doing a lot of street corner and house to house campaigning with the perenniel Norman Thomas as their Head Man. Lack of funds has kept them off the air to a great extent. No doubt Thomas should poll a large spite vote this year as will many of the other minority candidates such as Reynolds, Coxey and Up
shaw.As for the line up of. votes between Hoover and Roosevelt; there is a great possibility of both men losing their home states. Should ex-mayor Jimmy Walker of New York City decide to run for re- election, to clear his name as he says, it is very doubtful if Roosevelt can carry New York State. While out in California, McAdoo. without much interference from Hiram Johnson and James Rolpli, Jr., is making it plenty hot for Hoover. Garners unpopularity in the East is not going to be any great asset to Roosevelt.As things line up at the present time it is very difficult to predict the outcome of the-election. There is no doubt that it should be interesting. The only thing certain so far is that the Democrats carried Maine.
INTERCOLLEGIATE CLIPS
Is the daily use of rouge and lipstick exclusively a senior privilege? It is at CONNECTICUT COLLEGE, New London, Connecticut. Undergraduate students 
may use cosmetics only on week
ends.
ROANOKE COLLEGE suggests a treatment for cockey freshmen. They have organized a Goldfish Club in which the initiates aro required to swallow one live goldfish no more, no less. Now will you bo 
good, freshmen?
A traffic policeman at' Wellesley square near WELLESLEY COLLEGE thought to outwit the motorists by placing a mirror above his traffic box, so that he could see behind without turning his head. Wellesley girl students, however, took advantage of the mirror to powder and primp, and the next day the policeman was back at his old tricks of twisting around to see 
behind him.
OREGON STATE COLLEGE
placed a ban on student-owned automobiles, and at the end of the 
weeks reports came in of bruises, 
suffered by students as a result of falls from skates, bicycles, scooters, and buggies.
Nearly all colleges have annual class scraps between freshmen and sophomores. Theres nothing new in that. OTTOWA UNIVERSITY, however, has a unique custom dating back to 1904.
The entire school is the guest of the freshman class at a fried chicken dinner after the fight, regardless of who wins. Before the scrap, the freshmen get the chicken, fry it, and put it in hiding.If the sophomores find it and steal it from the frosli, the frosh have to stand by and watch while the rest of the school feeds sumptuously on fowl.If the sophomores dont succeed in stealing the chicken, the freshmen may partake of the "feed. Nice custom, what? Yes, if you win.
Photoelastic 
Lab Designed 
By Dr. Frocht
Course Offered During 
Past Summer For 
Graduate Work
By HAROLD BAER
One of the outstanding additions to the College of Engineering during the past year is a photo-elastic laboratory located in Machinery Hall. This laboratory was designed by Dr. Max M. Frocht of the Department of Mechanics, who is an authority on the investigation of stresses and strains by the photo-elastic method. Jhe laboratory was finished prior to the opening of summer school.The mechanical equipment was designed by Dr. Frocht and built at Carnegie. An outstanding feature of the new equipment is the hydraulic system of loading. A vessel which may be filled or emptied of water furnishes the load through a lever. A gauge and meter-stick fastened to the side of the vessel measures the load applied. Th,e flow of water into the 
vessel is controlled by means of valves which allow the load to be increased or decreased at steady rates.Polarized light from a mercury vapor lamp is passed through the transparent models being tested, and the position and intensity of the stresses can be seen by dark lines which appear upon the 
screen. When white light is used, beautiful colored patterns are obtained. All the valves and other control apparatus are centralized at the point where the observations are being made, thereby simplifying the work of the observer and increasing his efficiency and accuracy.
The laboratory consists of three rooms. The first room entered is the one in which the calculations are made. The second is where the experimenting is done. The last one is the developing laboratory for the developing of pictures that the experimenter takes. Dr. 
Frocht plans to fix up the laboratory so that mov.ing pictures of 
stresses and strains can be taken.Dr. Frocht conducted the first class in the new laboratory during the past summer school. It was attended by faculty members of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Yale, Princeton, Worcester, and Brooklyn Polytech, and graduate students from Carnegie. A great deal of work was done. The two scheduled morning hours 
of the laboratories were often extended all day and far into the night. The electrical department co-operated so that the experimenters were able to work at any desired hour.Dr. Lorry Miller gave several demonstrations in photographic procedure and Dr. J. B. Nathanson gave a special lecture on the electro-magnetic theory of light.The photo-elastic laboratory will be used  primarily for graduate courses and research. One graduate student is now enrolled at Carnegie whose thesis will be in plioto-elasticity. Others have expressed a desire to do the same. The laboratory Will also be used to give occasional demonstrations to undergraduate students.Dr. Frocht has published a number of papers on photo-elasticity, and an article of his on the subject, Looking at Stress, will appear in the November issue of the 
Scientific American.Professor J. J. Stoker also of the mechanics department is now on ieave of absence studying at Zurich, Switzerland.
Fulton Theater 
To Show Comedy
Million Dollar Legs, a comedy set against the timely background of the 1932 Olympic games will open Thursday at the Fulton The
ater.Thestory, featuring Jack Oakie, 
W. C. Fields, Ben Turpin and Andy Clyde, purports to tell of the heroic achievements of a gallant 
little band of athletes from Klops- tokie (which is located somewhere in the Polish corridor, just across the Austrian border.)
Paramount has assembled perhaps the finest cast of comedians in history. Jack Oakie, as the dying brush salesman who turns Olympic trainer, has one of the 
funniest roles of his entire career. W. C. Fields is cast as the President of Klopstokia, who has a day- to-day contract dependent entirely 
upon his ability to defeat the Secretary of the Treasury at wrest-* ling each morning.
A STROLLING SCRIBBLER IN CLEVELAND
Not many on the train except the team . . .Greeted with a Six die in gun battle, extrawhen we arrived at the station . . . JohnnySayles dashing for a forgotten chapeau before the train pulled out . . . More noise per human in response to Larry Dicksons pleas than ever before . . . The Wile brothers and many other prominent alumni on hand to see the boys do their stuff . . . Alice Work, Hazel Gough, and Mary Townsend late for the kickoff . . .Frank Sclinel- ler and Art Schai still later . . .Will Holloway came up with Jack and Betty, and guess what, theres one more Sigma Nu pin out, congratulations . . . good shot (apologies to Time) . . . the gun for the first quarter fired less than a yard from Aunt Jemima Beviveno as he caught a punt, and did he make tracks . . . twenty yards on the play ... awhole half without a score and no Kiltie band toblow our blues away . . . Ellen Bishop and Peg Weidlein still looking for Jean Darsie and Alice Lobaugh . . . Ellen doing more than her share of cheering . . . remember the one they pulled a couple of years ago about going to Cleveland with an end in view? . . . Ta Ta Colin.
More people from school . . . Joe Shuri, six Plebes proudly sporting their dinks . . . heroes of former years . . . Beede,' Robertson, Schmidt . . . back to the station and no one missed the train . . . Max Hannum with -his detective story magazine . . . Manager Cadmus being trimmed for a dozen pennies by Hazel ... A great big football man losing his balance and sitting on a dignified Mortar Boards lapwas his face red?. . .the Munhall Millions helping the Burzio Billions get started . . . Harry McCurdy pounding the books . . . Tony Kebe doing more of the same while the rest of the boys relaxed . . . Pittsburgh again . . . and home to bed.* * * * *
THINGS TO LOOK FOR
Tom Coulter standing in front of Skibo surrounded by a bevy of beauties and looking very collegiate in his brand new Dragon dink (Tuesdays and Fridays only).
That wall Dave Genter built in front of the S. A. E. house. Heres a cluelook behind the hedge.
Paul Hudson in the center section with field glasses draped around his neck at the game Saturday.
Those Engineers in Art School soft soaping the old flames. Sorority rushing starts a week from Friday.
One sorority is going to have its Formal at the Beechwood Boulevard residence of one of its seniors. Well, it seemed to work a couple of years ago.
It is rumored that one of the other sororities banned card playing when one of the members tried to second a motion with a bid of two no- trump.
The initials of a well-known North Side girl on Johnny Kronenbergs new roadster.*****
OUR INTELLECTS
A large group of Carengians went aplay-going last Friday night. Over three hundred tickets were procured through Prof. Kenyon for The Good Earth. Among those who went high hat were Mary Hamilton, Hulda Brierly, Ruth Eblcin, Polly Rauls, Bob Schell, Bill Russ, and Publicity Bill James, Doc Warden, too. Even the ushers were from Carnegie. The crowd enjoyed being together, and its too bad the Nixon had to close.*****,
ANOTHER FOOTBALL DANCE
Renowned maestros seem to be the order for the football dances this year with Billy Wiexel being held over by popular demand to play again next Saturday night. If you missed it this week you get another 
chancee to witnessGoofus done in the worlds Goofiest manner.
No big football men to clutter up the floor last week until a few of them came in late . . . Iieimy Farrell and Heimy Landau running out early with Joe Bronson and a new one . . . Ruth Dillman and Bob Hutchison, Red Jenkins 
and Paul Kremer lending color with Vody thieving a dance during the tail end of the evening . . . Tom Ryder*and Tippy Varner adopted a corner of their own . . . Lots of stags and gobs and gobs of P. C. W. girlsone of them with a plaid dress. Talk about school spirit!
Well be seein you.
A Nous, La Liberte 
At Avenue Cinema
A nous, La Liberte, the newest 
and gayest of Rene Clairs pic
tures is now showing at the Ave
nue Cinema, Liberty avenue.
Splendid direction, excellent act
ing, tuneful melodious and an 
abundance or brilliant directional ideas mark A Nous, La Liberte as a milestone in the development of the film industry. There is absolutely no necessity of speaking French in order to enjoy A Nous, 
La Liberte, for its brilliant director has made this exuberant satire on modern love, industrial life a truly international film that overcomes every language barrier. 
It is easily understood without th slightest knowledge of French.
You Cant Be Popular . . . 
If Youre a Poor Dancer
We Will Tcach You in 3 Private 
LessonsOnly $5 
Experf; Instruction
JACQUES SCHOOL 
OF DANCING
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS Mayflower 7891 Beginners ClassesMonday and Friday Evenings, 8:30 oclock. 
Social DanccsWith Orchestra Thursday and Saturday Evenings, 
8:30 oclock.
In Uie Heart of Tech and Pitt
TYPEWRITERS
All Makes 
Sold and Rented
SPECIAL RATES 
TO STUDENTS
Agency 
UNDERWOOD 
ROYAL 
REMINGTON 
and 
CORONA 
PORTABLES
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Phone: ATlantic 0342 
Corona Personal 
Writing Machines
FULTON THEATRE
WEEK
STARTINGp78a2b PISb F.
THE SCREWIEST IjADGI-I RIOT EVER CREATED!
LUON
DOLLAR
LEGS
CL paramount picture 
with JACK OAKIE W. C. FIELDS
ANDY CLYDE - BEN TURPIN - LYDA ROBERTI 
HANK MANN - GEORGE BARPIER - HUGH HERBERT 
DICKIE MOORE - SUSAN FLEMING
A fortune in hilarious tom-foolishness that sets the laugh record of 1932. A king's ransom in gags, girls, giggles and guffaws. 
WITH THESE GOOFIEST OF HOLLYWOOD COMICS
JACK OAKIE W. 0. FIELDS ANDY CLYDE 
HANK MANN LYDA ROBERTI
GEORGE BARBIER
Class Officers Nominations
Margaret Morrison: President, Sylvia Fierst, Louise Meixner, 
Mary Lord; treasurer, Evelyn Shields; social chairman; Susan 
Clarke; Senate representative, Dorothy Stevens.
College of Fine Arts: President, Lucas Briglitman, Ellcan
Avner, Sue Fuller, William Garriety, Ernest Wildenberger, Thomas 
Bernadi, lone Gaul; secretary, Evelyn Leigliou; treasurer, Paul 
Perrin, Ralph Volpe.
Colleges of Engineering and Industries: President, RichardHammond, James Conner, Thomas Comer, Alvin Guisha, John Provost, Joseph Allon, Irving Gruber, James Latta, Horace Tantum; secretary, Herman Wolilsen, Alexander Paul, John Charles, Donald Hershey, Howard Kohout, George Rial; treasurer, Alfred Lift, Howard Koliout, Clifton Bantelle.
Margaret Morrison Nominations for: Assistant secretary Student Council, Frances Schultz, Loretta Conlin, Marie Intertlial, Virginia Artz, Winifred McClean, Alice Henzi; senior representative, Betty Cooper, Gloria Kloos, Anne Kaufman.
FORBES NATIONAL BANK
Your Home Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND - - - PITTSBURGH
OFFICERS
RICHARD K. MELLON______________________________PresidentGEORGE H. CAMPBELL______________________Vice PresidentHARRY S. BROWN____________________________________Cashier
MISS N. C. FITZPATRICK_________________Assistant CashierJ. NEVIN GARBER_________________________Assistant Cashier
BOARD OF 
JOHN G. BOWMAN 
Chancellor University of Pittsburgh THOMAS S. BAKER 
President Carnegie Institute of Technology 
JAMES M. BOVARD Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys 
GEORGE H. CAMPBELL Vice President JOHN F. CASEY 
President John F. Gasey Company A. REX FLINN 
President Booth & Flinn Company HOWARD M. JOHNSON Auditor Ligonier Valley Railroad ELMER E. COLE 
President National Union Fire Insurance Company
DIRECTORS
RICHARD K. MELLON President 
Director Mellon National Bank 
WJLLIAM S. MOORHEAD Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys 
HERBERT A. MAY Vice President Union Drawn Steel Company 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS Real Estate 
ALAN M. SCAIFE . -Vice President Wm. B. Scaife & Sons Company 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN Director Mellon Institute of 
Industrial Research
Ag JghJpApJPg
TO VISIT THE
gt- UTT'DW-nPharmacy
5200 FORBES STREET
Completely Reorganized 
Beautifully Remodeled
This is the type of store you have 
always wanted in your 
neighborhood.
WE DELIVER
Phone SChenley 6300
9193
9173
LOUIS GORDON
Proprietor
Educator Sees 
New Trend To 
Cultural Study
Decline In Number 01 
Technical Students 
Is Predicted
Cincinnati(IP)In good times, 
when big business went about 
seeking technicians and complain
ed that colleges and universities 
turned out too few of them, tech
nical courses became the "rage in 
the institutions of higher learning 
throughout the land.
Professors of English, Philoso
phy and the other arts who pre
sumed to complain were laughed 
down. They had nothing more to 
do but act as voices crying in the 
wilderness.
Now, thinks Dr. Raymond Wal
ters, former dean of Swarthmore 
College, this year beginning his 
first term as president of the Uni
versity of Cincinnati, depression 
will start colleges again teaching 
students how to occupy/their idle 
time, of which they will have 
plenty in the next few years.
The first function of a univer
sity, he admits, is to prepare 
students for the work of life. A 
second function of higher education is training for the leisure of life.
Perhaps the greatest problem facing our economic system today and in the next quarter of a century is that of enforced leisure and unemployment.Our economic system is 011 trial, just as every preceding system was on ti^ial. Its problems cannot be solved with a Pollyanna 
recipe that all things will work out well if simply given time. I would suggest for this problem of enforced idleness a definite program of intellectual work.Reading should be regarded as a game, and writing can be done if one feels like it. Many persons are turning to writing, and one authentic sign of a nations becoming intellectual is a luxuriant crop of amateur writers.
WE STILL BUY USED BOOKS 
and 
PAY CASH
G.A. PILLSBURY
William Penn To Ope 
The Chatterbox Oct. ]
The Chatterbox, said to be c of the finest supper and danc? rooms in the country, will opened in the Hotel William Pei on October 19. Joseph Urban, . ternationally famous designer ar creator of the decorations in ti Urban Room of this hotel, has . pervised the designing and bui 
ing of all of the furnishings ai decorations, including a sunken wooden dance floor. The new room is located in the lower lobby of the hotel'.According to the management, an outstanding orchestra will play for the opening evening. A flooi show will be presented twice nightly.________
Theyll All Cheer!
Every friend you have will 
enthusiastically admire your 
shoes if you choose the finer 
quality and exact 
fitting made pos
sible by our factory 
ownership. 2 fac
tories  60 stores.
Carlotta mannish, sturdy type oxford for 
Bpcctntorlnporcs. In a combination 
of two.ahade* of brown.
drfloi
533 LIBERTY AVENUE 
6016 PENN AVENUE
AN UP-TO-DATE EATING PLACE FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE
Jacks Coffee Shoppe and Restaurant
TABLE, BOOTH AND COUNTER SERVICE SUPERFINE COOKING
TELEPHONE: SCHENLEY 9531 
327 SOUTH CRAIG STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
QUALITY FOOD COOKED AND SERVED AS YOU LIKE IT
'You call it
Americas pipe tobacco!
AND HERES WHY: 
Granger is made of White 
Burley Tobacco  the type 
between the kind used for 
chewing and the kind used 
for cigarettes.
In other words, its pipe 
tobaccoand if youre smok
ing a pipe, you want tobacco 
made for pipesnot tobacco 
made for something else, it 
matters not how good it is.
pocket pouch of heavy foil. Keeps tobacco better and malees price lower.
10c
YOU CAN DEPEND ON A LIGGETT & MYERS PRODUC
