WED. AFTERNOON 
TEA DANCE 
JERRY McGEORGE 4 to I
VOL. XXV, No. 17.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1931.
STATISTICS ON 
PLACEMENTS 
SHOW SUCCESS
Bureau of Recommenda^ 
tions is Active Office 
on Campus
ACTIVE 25 YEARS
Secures Positions Whose 
Salaries Total Six 
Million Dollars
Positions -whose salaries have 
amounted to well over six million 
dollars have been sccurcd for stu
dents and graduates of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology during the 
past ten years by the placement 
bureau, according to a report isfucd recently by John D. Beatty, 
head of that division.
The report of this office, known 
as the Bureau of Recommendations, 
for the ten-year period from 1920 
through 1930, reveals that a total of 
3,717 positions ' were secured with 
a gross income of $6,442,837.
Different Groups Served 
Positions for three types of work
ers were secured by the bureau. 
One group includes those students 
who register in the night school 
and then seek the aid of the bu
reau in securing work for the day 
hours. The second group is com
posed of students for whom posi
tions arc sccurcd :jt the time of 
graduation. Alumni who- sought a 
change of position or new jobs 
comprise.the third group.
For the first group during the 
past decade .979 positions with a 
revenue of $1,420,005, or an average 
salary of $1,450, were secured. Dur
ing the same period the bucrau 
secured 2,738 placements for gradu
ates and alumni, the second' and 
third groups. The income derived 
from these positions was $5,022,832, 
an, average salary of $1,834.
) Part Time List Large 
The statement docs not include 
the part-time jobs sccurcd for stu
dents in sch'ooH or summer em
ployment, nor docs it embrace all 
the graduates of Carnegie Tech. 
Many of the students, particularly 
'.lie graduates of the College of 
Fine Arts and the Margaret Mor
rison Carnegie College, the wom
en's school, secure positions through 
their own efforts or through agen
cies not connected with the school.
These services arc furnished the 
students without charge. Sincc the 
founding of Carnegie Tech a quar
ter of a century ago, this system 
of placement has been in operation. 
According to Mr. Beatty, Carnegie 
Tcch is one of the few colleges 
which has maintained such a divi
sion for that length of time.
A compldtc employment rccord of 
those students who have registered 
with the bureau is maintained. This 
rccord contains an account of the 
positions held by the graduate, the 
approximate salary, and his ability. 
When a company files a request 
with the bureau for a particular 
type of worker, the head of the 
bureau is able to rccommcnd a 
suitable person for the opening. 
This system has proved highly satis
factory, according to Mr. Beatty, 
and makes possible a steady up
grading for the capable graduates.
The report shows that the col
lege year 1928-29, both from the 
point of view of the number of 
(Continued on Page Two)
DR. SCHOEN TO DEBATE 
WITH PITT PROFESSOR
"Free Willa Fact or 
Fancy is Topic Chosen 
For Discussion
Dr. Max Schoen, head of the 
department of psychology at .Car
negie, will debate with Professor 
Turner of the history department 
of the University or Pittsburgh on 
"Sunday night, February 22. The 
debate, the subject of which is to 
be "Free Willa Fact or a Fancy, 
will be held in the Morris ICaufmann Memorial Auditorium of the 
Y. M. and W. H. A., at 8:30 p. m., 
and is open to all members of the 
V. Others interested in attend
ing can securc tickets without 
charge from either of the two 
professors debating.
Dr. Scljoen has written several 
books on psychology, among which 
is "Human Nature, a college text 
used by Carnegie and many other 
universities and colleges- through
out the country. He is now en
gaged in writing another book, 
Esthetics, to be published soon. 
He has also written several ar
ticles for the Journal of Philos
ophy, under tho title, A Review 
of Some Rcccnt German Litera
ture on tfcc Esthetic Mind and 
Esthetic Attitude. Aside from 
being active in experimental psy
chology, Dr. Schoen has been a 
prominent speaker at many local 
gatherings,
Jerry McGeorge Will 
Play At Tea Dance
The second semester social sea
son will get under way. tomorrow 
officially, with the close of regis
tration. While the latc-comcrs will 
be hurriedly working their' way 
through the registration line in the 
gym, the Union will be divested 
of the painful reminiscences of the 
rccent exams and prepared for the 
annual tea dancc marking the 
opening, of the sccond semester.
Jerry McGcorgcs orchestra, 
which has proven quite popular at 
the rcccnt tea dances and football 
dances, will be on the stage from 
4 to 6 p. m. This local band needs 
no introduction, and should no 
doubt maintain' the standard re
sponsible for the popularity of 
these afternoon danccs.
Popular prices of 25 cents for 
women and 50 cents for men will 
be collcctcd at the door.
Charles J. Taylor 
MemorialHangsIn 
Faculty Club Room 
 6Birthday Morning Ad
judged Among Best 
Works of Painter
One of the most important paint
ings of Charles J, Taylor, former 
head of the painting and decorating 
department, has been purchased vby the 
members <f the faculty and by his 
daughter, Adelaide Taylor, to hang 
in the Faculty Club Room as a 
memorial to him. The picture, en
titled Birthday Morning," hung in 
the International Art Exhibition 
several j'cars ago, and was adjudged 
one of the painters best works.
Mr. Taylor directed the painting 
and decoration department from 1912 
to 1928, when he died at the age 
of seventy-three. Since the com
mercial evaluation of the picture is 
from $750 to $1,000, Adelaide Tay
lor consented to help he fapulty 
purchase the painting. The voluntarj' 
contributions of the Faculty'amount
ed to $265.
Birthdajr Morning is a large can
vas approximately four by five feet 
in size. A cluttcred breakfast table 
and a large Persian cat occupy the 
foreground of the picture, while in 
the background a blue sea dotted 
with sailing vessels is seen through 
partly opened French windows. In 
the left foreground is a brightly 
dressed " Spanish doll, and in' the 
right foreground, a smaller and lesspretentious bab}' doll. The picture 
will add much ornament and beauty 
to the Faculty Club Room, and will 
certainly be appreciated by all those 
who use the room.
Y.M.H.A. SPONSORS 
DANCE TOMORROW
The Y. M. & W. H. A. will 
sponsor a dancc in its auditorium 
for university students and alumni 
on Wednesday, February 11. Klamons El Tower Hotel orchestra 
of ten pieces will furnish the mus^c, from nine to one oclock. Klamans orchestra has gained much 
recognition on the local university 
campuses, .where it has played at 
numerous fraternity danccs.
Tickcts, selling at one dollar 
per couplc arc now being distrib
uted. First semester freshmen at 
the colleges will, be admitted free 
to the affair, as a part of the Open 
House week activities for fresh
men). The dancc will be the main 
feature of freshman -week at the 
Y. M. & W. H. A. At Carnegie 
tickcts may be obtained from Earl 
Klein, a senior in the College of 
Engineering.
In keeping with the spirit of the 
week, unusual decorations, carried 
out .in the Valentine manner, will 
be a feature of the dance.
Recommendations 
Bureau Requests 
Seniors Pictures
Seniors who expect to make con 
tact with industrial conccrns through 
the Bureau of Recommendations 
arc requested to furnish Mr. Grau 
with four or five small, inexpen
sive photographs such as arc used 
in j passports. Several companies 
have expressed the desire  to sec 
pictures of interested candidates be
fore appointments for interviews 
arc made. These may be sccurcd 
from almost any commercial pho
tographer downtown.
Definite arrangements have been 
made with seven companies to in
terview seniors in accordance with 
the following schedule: Proctor and 
Gamble, February 16, interested in 
chemical and mechanical engineer
ing and works management gradu
ates; Babcock-Wilcox and its sub
sidiary, Fullcr-Lchigh, will inter
view mechanical engineers on Feb
ruary 17; the Standard Oil Com
pany of New Jersey will send a 
representative on February 19 to 
interview any seniors interested in 
the oil industry; Armstrong Cork 
Company, March 2, to interview 
works management, mcchanical and 
commercial engineers; Western 
Union Telegraph will interview elec
trical and mechanical engineers on 
Friday, March 13; the representa
tive of the Standard Oil Company 
of New York will sec any seniors 
interested in' domestic or foreign 
scrvice on March 19. As these 
dates are subject to changc on 
short notice, seniors are advised to 
keep in elose touch with the Bu
reau of Recommendations. Several 
of these conccrns require applica
tions filed previous to the date of 
interview. These blanks may be 
obtained from Mr. Grau who would 
appreciate the prompt co-operation 
of the seniors in this matter. The 
bureau would also be greatly aided 
in its work if the seniors would 
make appointments for interviews 
at the earliest possible date.
For the benefit of the men who 
contemplate taking graduate work 
in dh eir branch of engineering a 
complete file of collages and uni
versities offering advanced work 
along with scholarships and teach
ing fellowships available at these 
institutions 'has been compiled in 
the . Bureau of, Recommendations. 
As many, of the applications for 
scholarships and fellowships must 
be filed before March 1, it is sug
gested that the seniors make use 
of this information at their earliest 
(Continued on Page Two)
SCARAB HONORARY 
ELECTS OFFICERS
Scarab, national professional ar
chitectural fraternity, at a lAceting 
held on January 27, clcctcd to 
serve for the next year the follow
ing officers:
President, E. A. Lundberg; yicc 
president, W. H. Ward; secretary, 
N. S. Kolin; treasurer, C. A. 
Stoody; sergcant-at-arms, J. M. Pinncv.
The retiring officers are: Presi
dent, K: F. Johnson; vice president, 
J. L. Ralston; secretary, E. A. 
Lundberg; treasurer, C. A. Stoody; 
sergeant-at-arms, J. R. McKccvcr.
It was also voted to award a 
prize to the freshman architect 
submitting the best solution to the 
current original problem, "r'A Col
onnade. The prize will be a book 
entitled DEspouyFragments D 
Architecture Antique.
Scarab was founded for the pur
pose ,pf encouraging scholarship 
and leadership among the archi
tects. Men who have shown high 
scholastic ability during their 
courses are eligible to receive calls, 
which arc given twice a year.
Guyastua Hung Up His Horn But
All Signs Fail In Dry Weather
Old Guj'asuta, recently renovat
ed with a can of gilt paint and a 
new concrete base, turned one eye 
around to look at the clock and 
winked the other at a blood-red 
Mars. Then he reached up and 
hung his powder horn on the end 
of the old moon. After which he 
composed himself one more to 
guard traffic at his busy Sharpsburg corner.
You-may as .well pack up your 
mbroidcrcd oilskins, roll up your 
rubbers, and hang your bumbcrshoots behind thu^door, ladies and 
gentlemen. For Guyasuta, being 
a regular Indian, knows that when 
the old moon lays on his back 
there won't be any rain for a 
month of Sundays. Or rather, a 
month that begins on Sunday and 
keeps going for four more. So 
mark that date in your little red 
booksMarch 1, 1931and; look
out for cloU&bursts and floods. At 
least, that's what an erudite gentle
man said when the question was 
put, Do you think this drought 
will last much longer, Doctor?
With Arthur Jjriakape . sugiiing tentatively that New York 
City was going dry because of a 
water shortage, and Pittsburghers 
refusing to drink their "chemical
ized water, and folk up in Clarion 
County cutting ice to melt and 
take their morning shower in, our 
fancies solemnly turn to thoughts 
of spring flowers.
The last Friday in January was 
mild and dear. The Freshmen 
and Sophomores, and a Senior or 
two went out to look for posies 
in the park, we remember. What 
of it? Well, the last Friday in 
the month determines the weather 
for the next thirty or some days. 
Theres one chccrful aspect of the 
whole situation, though. Listen 
close, now. You havent seen any 
worms, lately, have you? Yes, 
thats it, w-o-r-m-sworms. Those 
slimy, crawly crcatqrcs that here
tofore have always spent damp 
mornings ambling back and forth 
across our fair campus concrete 
walks, ,that always had the co-cds 
shuddering and squecling and the 
masterful men stepping high and 
wide. Well, these same worms, 
 Continued on Page. TwoJ,__|
We Buy The Slushy 
That Oozes
Valentine 
Love In Every Line
The fourteenth day of February 
means that the hatchct we must 
bury, means that wc must spend 
our dimes for sentimental Valen
tines, for lacey outlines of a hc:.Vt 
and sugary verses that love impart. 
The slushy type is now in vogue, 
Im all yours, kid, is now de
mode.
The fourteenth day is Cupid's 
joy, lie shoots an arrow at each 
boy' with carcless airand lo, the 
mark is -the anatomical ccntcr pf 
the heart. The poisoned arrojw 
does its work and Cupid chucklts 
at the hurt hes done to the im
pregnable, the formerly unnoticing. 
Many a sage has often said that 
Cupid and the august head of 
Valentine concoctions were In 
league to serve each other mutual
ly. It cant be -proved, but tis 
surely queer that just about this 
time of year the boys fall hard 
for someone who theyd never no
ticed hitherto. ' Some strange at
traction comes to light as Cupidj.s 
dart goes out of sight and as tire 
arrow finds its mark Dan checks 
up another victim of the heart. 1
A charming myth about the day
when Claudius oer Rome held 
sway, was that old St. Valentine 
was beheaded on pretext of crime. 
The white-haired saint was greatly 
loved by everyone; that day the 
doves and other birds began to 
coo and bill a bit, as birds must 
'cfo. On that same date, the cus
tom fine of choosing your own 
Valentine and sending himor 
sending hera love note or a cari
cature arose, and ever sincc that 
day it has continued in its sway.
In olden days the}r were content 
in greater part, to only send a 
simple verse or two of Jove, ini
tials printed up above. Those or 
namcntal billet doux were tucked 
inside the homcsidc stoop, then, 
pealing knockcr with great force, 
theyd. run away in haste, of
coursc. But no\$ the people are
mature and never act as though 
they were descended from that 
race of man who left their notes, 
then turned and ran. No, no,
weve sophistocatcd grown and we 
must use the mail or phone; and 
we must either be ornate, buy one 
for. dollar ninety-eight, or were 
(Contit^ed on Page Three)
EDITORIAL CONTEST ON 
WORLD COURT PLANNED
National Student Federation 
of America Announces 
Rules
The National Student Federation 
of America, a national undergrade, 
ate organization, announces a na-. 
tion-widc, intercollegiate editorial 
contest on the y/orld Court. It 
does this in the belief that the stu-j 
dents of the country have not only: 
the right but the duty', to .voicdj 
their opinion on such a vital ques
tion. The last five Presidents ofj 
the United States have urged en
trance into the World Court, the, 
Senate has voted for our adherence 
with five reservations, all of which, 
according to the testimony of the 
Secretary of State, have been acccptcd .hy the nations, members of. 
the Court, by their agreeing to the 
so-called Root Protocol. The ma
jority of authorities on international 
affairs have agreed that the entrance 
of the United States should be af
fected.
The conditions of the contest 
follow:
1. Fifty dollars in cash will be 
given to the author of the best edi
torial appearing in any college 
newspaper, this editorial to set forth 
the case against the immediate en
trance of the United States into 
the World Court according to the 
Root Protpcol.
2. Fifty dollars in cash will be 
given to the authoraof the best edi
torial appearing fn any college 
newspaper, this editorial to set forth 
the ease for the immediate entrance 
of the United States into the World 
Court according to the Root Pro
tocol.
3. Marked copies of t c college 
paper containing such editorial must 
reach the central office of the 
NSFA on or before February 25.
4. An unprejudiced board of 
judges, authorities on the -World 
Court, will determine the winners 
of the contcst.
The time limit is necessarily 
short bccause it is desired to have 
an expression and a public an
nouncement of student opinion be
fore the close of the present ses
sion of Congress.
E. R. Murrow, president of the 
National Student Federation of 
America, stated, I believe that the 
majority of American students 
favor our immediate entrance into 
the World Court. The poll taken 
at the last NSFA Conference at 
Atlanta, Ga., on December 29 
showed this. However, the contest 
is not conducted as propaganda 
either for or against the World 
Court, but as a means of bringing 
the issue before American students 
and of getting some concrete ex
pression of their opinion.
The central office of the NSFA 
at 218 Madison avenue, New York 
City, has on hand a list of all 
(Continued on Page Two)
NU DELTA ALPHA 
INITIATES 8 MEN
Nu Delta Alpha, honorary nondegree fraternity, recently held its 
annual initiation banquet at the 
Garden Tea Rooms, Baum Boule
vard. The following men were, 
initiated: Frederick G. Asmus, Mur
ray R. Lebowitz, Robert D. Cremcr, George W. Maxwell, Harvey W. 
Smith, Ennios J. Bochiccio, Charles 
W. Steele, James L. Thomas. _
Nu Delta Alpha was organized 
as an honorary fraternity at Car
negie T cch eight years ago. Each 
year it clccts to membership ,men 
outstanding in scholarship and acti
vities from among short course 
students in the colleges of Fine 
Arts and Industries.
Offiecrs of the fraternity are: 
John L. Briggs,^president; William 
L. Barton, vice president; Charles 
L. Vorbekc, Jr., secretary; and 
Leon J, Segal* treasurer.
SHAFFER OPENS NEW 
PSYCHOLOGY COURSE
Class Will Perform Expe
riments in Sensation 
and Perception
A coursc in experimental psychol
ogy is being opened by the depart
ment of psychology and education 
during the sccond semester of the 
current year. Dr. Laurence Shaffer, 
professor of psychology, will* conduct 
the coursc, and his laboratory manual 
will be used in connection with the 
class exercises. The classes arc di
vided into two sections mcctjng at 
8:30 and 9:30 on Mondays, Wednes
days, and Fridays in room 217, Mar
garet Morrison.
The course, which is a nine-unit 
elective, has elementary psychology as 
a prerequisite. The psychological ex
periment, states Dr. Shaffer in his 
manual, is peculiar among experi
ments in that, as in all sciences, one 
human being must be. the experi
menter, controlling the situation and 
handling the apparatus, and the other 
human being must be the material 
for the experiment, the one upon 
whom the experiment is being made. 
In this particular case, the class will 
usually form the subject for the ex
periments, while the instructor  will 
be the experimenter. It will be pos
sible in some instances for the stu
dents to work in pairs, alternating 
the positions of subject and ex
perimenter.
Experiments will be conducted 
upon: (1) Sensation and Perception.
(2) Learning. (3) Reasoning. (4) 
Psychological Measurement. Special 
readings and written reports are re
quired for cacli experiment. Among 
the books to which rcfcrenccs will 
be made are: Woodworths revised' 
edition of Ps}'cholog3',' Garrett's 
Great Experiments in Psychology, 
Seashores Elementary Experiments 
in Psychology, and Gates Psy
chology for Students in Education. 
Each experiment will involve a cer
tain amount of tabulating, statistical 
work, and the preparation of tables 
and charts.
A particularly interesting experi
ment will be conducted1 upon the 
nature and use of intelligence tests. 
Here the members of the class in 
addition to acting as subjects, score, 
calculate and interpret the data in 
relation to their own papers.
New apparatus and furniture is 
being obtained for the laboratory.
UNIVERSITY WOMEN 
TO HOLD LUNCHEON
The Pittsburgh branch of the 
American Association of University 
Women will hold its annual Inter
national luncheon at the Schenley 
Hotel on Saturday, February 14, at 
12:30 oclock. Miss Louise Fitch, 
dean of Women at Cornell Uni
versity, has been sccurcd to give the 
address, the subject of which will be 
announced later. Miss Fitch was 
formerly executive secretary of the 
American Association of University 
Women. Since this year is the semi
centennial of. the national organiza
tion and the thirty-sixth anniversary 
of the Pittsburgh branch, this inter
national luncheon will be the out
standing event in Pittsburgh to cele
brate these occasions. Tables arc be
ing arranged for various alumnae 
associations, and groups and special 
invitations have been sent to the 
Cornell club, foreign college student 
groups, and the wives of the con
suls in Pittsburgh.
Mrs. R. C. McKclvey, president, 
has appointed the following.commit
tee chairmen : lunchcon committee,
Dr. Irene Davis Ferguson, Cornell 
University; invitation committee, Mrs. 
Walter B. Jones, Columbia; table 
decorations, Mrs. Frank D. New
bury, Lake Erie College; menu com
mittee, 'Miss Harriet Glendon, Uni
versity of Chicago; usher committee, 
Mrs. Victor Sandcck, Columbia UniXContinued on Page .Two),
Dr. Baker Now 
Returning From 
European Tour
Dr. Thomas S. Baker sailed on 
Friday from Paris on the steam
ship Albert Ballin, after a six 
weeks survey of the European 
coal situation. His investigation 
has been carried out in anticipa
tion of the third international con
ference on bituminous- coal to be 
held here at Carnegie November 
16 to 21. Dr. Baker has been very 
cordially received throughout his 
tour, and nearly three hundred sci
entists and leaders of the Eu
ropean coal industry have accepted 
invitations to attend the American 
meeting.
While the fundamental purpose 
of the congrcss is to discuss the 
results of rccent studies of coal 
with special rcfercncc to improved 
methods of utilization and their 
economic value, the present world 
wide coal slump and the urgent 
nccitl for discovering new ways of 
increasing coal consumption will 
result in the delegates giving much 
time to this aspect of the problem.
Dr. Baker has found that re
search has taken tremendous strides 
in Europe, particularly in Germany 
and Great Britain, with the for
mer country foremost in its efforts 
to derive new uses from raw coal. 
The advances have been sufficient
ly far-reaching to warrant the 
definite statement that the day is 
coming when raw coal will no 
longer be used, various cultivated 
definitive* being substituted in its 
place.
Meanwhile the problem of dis
posing of the huge reserves of coal 
and of finding profitable markets 
for the present production is tax
ing the resources of the keenest 
minds of Europe.
Dr. Baker has been successful in 
obtaining acceptances from many 
of the best known European fuel 
technologists, most of whom will 
read papers at the Pittsburgh con
grcss. An advisory board of dis
tinguished American industrialists 
is co-operating with Dr. Baker in 
making the congrcss the most im
portant yet convened.
MEEKER, ECONOMIST, 
TO LECTURE IN UNION
Two lcctures dealing with the 
stock exchange will be giv.cn in 
the Union on Wednesday and 
Thursday, February 18 and 19, at 
8:30 p. m. by J.'Edward Meeker, 
economist of the New York Stock 
exchange. On Wednesday evening 
Mr. Meeker will speak on Stock 
Exchange Organization and Oper
ation, and on Thursday evening 
his subject will be "Economic Func
tions of the Stock Market.
Mr. Meeker, an honor graduate 
of Yale, entered financial journalism 
20 xyears ago. For the past 10 
years he has held the .position, of 
economist of tlfc New York Stock 
exchange, during which time lie has 
carried on research, work dealing 
with the comparison of methods of 
conducting business on the New 
York exchange with those which 
exist in other world financial cen
ters. He is the author of "The 
Work of the New York Stock Ex
change, one of the few compre
hensive studies of that finld.
Membfcrs of the American Insti
tute of Banking,: the Pittsburgh 
Stock exchange, the Bond club, the 
American Statistical socicty, and 
the Pittsburgh Personnel associa
tion have been invited to hear Mr. 
Meeker.
Intermural Teams 
Prepare Schedules
The withdrawal of Boss Hall 
and Nu Delta Alpha from the In
terfraternity - Dormitory Basketball 
League has caused a temporary 
mixup of the proposed schedule. 
The committee headed by Mr. 
Zalonack is confident, however, 
that the details will be arranged 
satisfactorily.
This situation leaves 24 teams 
n the competition, and requires a 
further remodeling of the schedule. 
This latter item will be adjusted 
in the committee meeting today, 
along with the selection of a third 
referee. The various teams have 
one more week of practice before 
entering competition in the week 
of February -15.
Prom Favors
A number of guests at the Mens 
Junior Prom last Friday did not 
receive favors as the attendance 
rccord quite exceeded the expecta
tions of -the committee. Addition
al favors have been ordered and 
upon their arrival will be given to 
those still holding their favor stub. 
If these stubs are turned in at the 
Y office this week with the indi
viduals name on the back, the dis
tribution of the extra favors when 
they arrive will be greatly aided.
SCHOLARSHIP ORGANIZATION TO 
SPONSOR MICHAEL AND MARY 
AS ITS ANNUAL BENEFIT PLAY
Miss Ruth Liebcrman, M. M. 31, 
who is president of the Womens 
Scholarship Organization.
Carnegie To Play 
Host To Student 
Council Conference
3-Day Program Includes 
Inter-Fraternity Ball 
on March 6
Carnegie will act as host on 
March 6 to the Mid-West Student 
(Conference which is to be held 
this year on March 5, 6 and 7, in 
Pittsburgh. The Conference has 
been planned to include the Intcrfratc.rnity Formal, which has been 
arranged for March 6, at the Wil
liam Penn Hotel.
A most interesting and enjoyable 
program has been planned under 
the supervision of Marvin Fox, the 
sccrctary-trcasurcr of the confer
ence.,
During , the first morning, Thurs
day, March 5, the delegates will 
be registered in the Union of the 
Administration hall. The housing 
of ,the students will also be ar
ranged at this time. At 1 p. m. in 
the afternoon the first business 
session will be held in the Car
negie Union. At this time Presi
dent Baker will extend a wclcomc 
to the conference members. An 
interesting trip to one of Pitts
burghs famous institutions is being 
planned to start at 4 p. m. The 
evening program consists, of a din
ner ahd. reception at 7 p. m., given 
by Deans Green and Tarbcll in 
the Faculty Club room. Dr. Petty 
of the First Baptist Church of 
Pittsburgh will be the . speaker.
On Friday and Sa.turday at 9
a. - m. and 1 p. m. confcrencc ses
sions will be held in the Carnegie 
Union. On Friday night all who 
wish may attend the Interfrater
nity. Ball to be held in the Urban, 
and Grand Ball rooms of the Wil
liam Pcnp Hotel. On Saturday at 
3 p. m., a tour of the city is being 
planned.
(Continued on Page Three)
Newman Placers To 
Present The Pop=Off 
On February 12 And 13
The Pop Off, a thrcc-act comedy, 
will be presented by the Newman 
Players on February 12 and 13. The 
auditorium of the Boys Catholic 
high school, Fifth avenue, has been 
secured for the performance. The 
Pop-Off is an original production 
written and directed by Madeline S. 
Foust, head of the department of 
drama' at Seton Hill College.
A special feature of this play is 
a night club scene and a musical 
comcdy sketch. The play concerns it
self with the troubles of an irate 
father who attempts to control the 
younger generation. A well-known 
radio entertainer and Thomas Mc
Mahon will give a specialty number 
between seines. Admission is 50c per 
person.
Gerry Doran, well-known for his 
good stage work in Newman club 
plays, will arrange the musical comcdy 
scene, and direct the stage equipment.
Four members of the cast arc from 
Carnegie Tcch. They arc: Katherine 
Wholey, Ella May McAtccr, Harry 
fogadown, and Orcn Rutcmillcr. 
The rest of the cast includes Bernard 
Connoly,' Ailcenx Harkins, Gracc 
Mooney, Bccty Mooney, Richard Ken
nedy and Viola Brosky.
There will be a basketball game 
followed by a dancc next Wednes
day evening at the Cathedral Girls 
gym. The Olympian orchestra will 
play for the affair. Admission is 25c 
a person. Only members who can 
present their membership cards will 
be admitted.
The Valentine dance has been 
definitely cancelled. The . next big 
dance will be held in May,
Performance to Be Held 
At Alvin Theater on 
February 23
PATRONESSES NAMED
Madge Kennedy Stars in 
Lead Opposite English 
Actor
The Womens Scholarship Or
ganization has choscn "Michael 
and Mary, starring Madge Ken
nedy, as its benefit presentation for 
this year. The performance will 
be held Monday evening, Febru
ary 23, at the Alvin Theater.
A number of prominent Pitts
burghers arc permitting their names 
to be used as patronesses. Among 
those who have already accepted 
the request arc: Miss Mary Wat
son Green, Mrs. Alexander Silver
man, Dr. William L. Marks, Mr. 
John S. Craig, Mrs. Jennie Wolf, 
Mrs. J. H. Reed, Mrs. Herbert DuPuy and Mrs. Leo L. Half.
The Womens Scholarship Or
ganization is composed of one rep
resentative from every -activity on 
the campus in which women par
ticpate. Through its efforts, schol
arships arc awarded every year to 
deserving candidates in Margaret 
Morrison and Art School. In or
der to make these possible, the 
organization, every 3'car, gives a 
theatrical benefit, the proceeds of 
which are used for this purpose.
Madge Kennedy Has Lead
Madge Kennedy will play oppo
site Tcrrance Neil, the well-known 
English actor. Miss Kennedy is 
familiar to theatcr-gocrs for her 
work iii "Paris Bound and Love 
in a Mist. The plot of "Michacl 
and Mary" has been described as 
"one of the most moving love 
stories ever portrayed on the 
stage. It conccrns itself with a 
young woman, Mary, who has Been 
deserted by her husband, and. a 
sympathetic young man, Michacl, 
who conics to her aid. In after 
years, Marys husband returns and 
attempts to blackmail Mary and 
Michael, who in the meantime has 
become a successful author. The 
ensuing scenes provide excitement, 
pathos and much dramatic sus
pense.
The pricc of tickcts will range 
from $2.50 for orchestra seats to 
50 ccnts for balcony seats. All, of 
the tickets from which the organi
zation is to rcccivc a profit must 
be bought on the Carnegie campus.
A number of honor'arics on the 
campus arc considering backing 
this bcnciiL to the extent of reserv
ing boxes for their members and 
others are purchasing blocks of 
tickcts.
Committee Chairmen
The committee chairmen include 
the following: Campus ticket sale, 
Ida Campbell; alumni ticket sale, 
Elsa Weber; faculty ticket sle, 
Betty Preller; candy, Helen Baugh
man; patronesses, Virginia Page; 
posters, Faith Hanna.
The officers of the Women's 
Scholarship Organization are Ruth 
Liebcrman, president; Jean Shirk, 
Mary Hauser, vice presidents; 
Mary McKeon, secretary, and - Jan
et McClelland, treasurer.
GLEE CLUBS WILL 
SING AT TECH NIGHT
Kiltie Band Will Also Take 
Part in Annual 
Affair
The Men's and Womens. Glee 
Clubs and the Kiltie Band will at
tend Tech Night at the Sixth 
Presbyterian Church, Forbes and 
Murray, February 15, at 8 oclock. 
The speaker of the evening will 
be James Rae, president of the 
Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce, 
who will talk on a subject of gen
eral interest to the student body.
Following the service there will 
be a social hour during which tinie 
the students will have an oppor
tunity to become acquainted with 
the speaker. Later, refreshments 
will be served.
This is the first time that the 
Womcn.s Glee Club will take part 
in the Tcch Night Program. In
cluded in their program will be a 
Mozart number, as well as Gehrigs 
Land Sighting, to be sung to
gether with the Mens Glee Club. 
The Men's Glee Club will also 
present a special program.
Tcch Night has been an annual 
affair for the past ten years at the 
Sixth Presbyterian Church and is a 
night to which many students look 
forward. Last year Senator Davis 
was the speaker and the church 
was filled to. capacity.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1931.
ALUMNI NEWS
Cr ^ Ch rom
alifornia
to New Haven 
.. . the FAVORITE 
pipe tobacco of 
college men is 
W
HEREVER colloge men 
pause to load thfeir pipes 
youll eee the familiar blue tin of 
Edgeworth!
At California, at Yale, at Williams 
and Cornell ... in Americas lead
ing colleges and universities you 
will find Edgeworth the iavorito 
smoking tobacco of the college man.
College men everywhere respond 
to the appeal of pipespacked with 
cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be 
guided by their choice. Try Edgeworth yourself. Taste its rich nat
ural savor that is enhanced im
measurably by Edgeworth's dis
tinctive eleventh process.
You will find Edgeworth at your 
nearest tobacco shop15ji the tin. 
Or, for generous free samplo, ad
dress Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d 
St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edl'ftworth In a blond 
of fino old Imrloyi', 
with It natural nnvr 
nhiinced by lSrlgwortlin dlMtlnnllvo cM a vont h iproofitm, 
Huy IDt\gr,worth tiny 
Whoro In two fornin 
" Jlftndyriubh<id  i nd "Vlujc filino," All 
11 an, 1KH pnolcnl; pnoltnt? to pound 
humidor tin.
Boxers Make Home 
Debut Next Saturday 
With Syracuse Team
Exhibition Bout To Be Held 
Between Halves This 
Saturday
Boxing fans will he treated to 
the first intcrcollcgiatc match held 
in Pittsburgh a week from Satur
day when the strong mil team 
from Syracuse will match their 
skill with the Plaid sluggers at the 
Carnegie Gym.
In going into this match the 
Carnegie team will be at a disad
vantage only from the standpoint 
of experience. Coach Sesto has 
been' working hard with the boys 
since their initial meet with West 
Virginia and is well pleased with 
the rapid progress the team is 
making. Although defeated by a 
rathfir One-sided margin the boys 
all put on good exhibitions and 
gained a world of confidence dur
ing their Wdst Virginia appear
ance which should stand them in 
good steed during the coming en
counters.
Those of the student bod^ who 
arc interested in the fight game 
will be given a sample of action 
this Saturday between the halves 
of the Georget'own basketball game 
when Mike Rcstainc tacklcs ClifT 
Carr in an exhibition bout. These 
boys are scrappers of no mean 
ability and should give a fast and 
furious exhibition of mil wcilding.
EDITORIAL CONTEST
(Continued from Page Or.c) 
readily obtainable material on the 
World Court, which it will send out 
promptly upon request. Further
more, it will act as a clearing-house 
for the distribution of any of. this 
material which is desired. Jl is 
earnestly hoped that due advantage 
will be taken of this opportunity 
to build up intelligent student opin
ion on the vital issue of the World 
Court, and that, in the future, col
leges ihroughoiit the country will 
avail themselves of this clearing
house function of the NSFA in 
every important issue, national and 
international.
UNIVERSITY WOMEN
(Continued from Page One) 
versity ; assisted by Mrs. M. Muskaf, 
Western Reserve College, Mrs. ,1. E. 
McLaughlin, Colorado College, Miss 
Frances Amlicrspn, University of 
Pittsburgh, Mrs. E. K. Eberhart, 
Simpson College, Mrs, R. J, Watkins, 
Texas University, Miss Helen Hol
lingsworth, University of Pittsburgh, 
and Mrs. A. French Shrove, Uni
versity of Wisconsin, The music 
will be in charge of Jean McCrory 
Newman,
Non-members and friends of the 
association arc cordially invited to 
attend.
Swimmers Open Card 
With Franklin-Marshall
Thursday night the Tartan tank 
team will weigh tile anchor in the 
direction of Lancaster, Pa., and 
points East, ' Friday the swimmers 
will oppose Franklin & Marshall 
in a dual meet which marks the 
opening of the Plaid schedule. 
Competition will he . continued the 
following day with the University 
of Delaware at Newark.
Coach Roscdorph will take a 
squad of ten splashers who arc lia
ble to drown the hopes of any 
opponents. Time trials, to be held 
early this week, will give some 
idea as to who will make the trip. 
This years squad is having its 
usual troubles of filling the vacanies left by graduation. Marked 
improvement has been shown dur
ing the training season, which be
gan in; the late Fall.
The interest in the Franklin & 
Marshall meet is centered about 
the fact that the Skibos suffered a 
39. to 27 defeat last year in a close-: 
ly contested bout. The Lancaster 
boys boast of a hot combination 
this year that arc out to win. Tartain navigators will have no little 
task "to down the team from the 
University of Delaware. Being a 
ncwcomer on the Skibo card, faorablc results arc hoped for.
The Tartan ducklings will open 
hostilities this Wednesday at 5_ p. 
m. in the local pool with the boys 
from South Hills High swimming 
in the visitors lanes. The follow
ing Saturday will bring the Plcbcs 
into action in the Annual Press A. 
A. U. Meet at the Natatorium. 
With more ' experienced material 
than usual, the Plcbc squad should 
hang up some laurels that arc new 
to the Carnegie shelves. '
GUYASUTA HUNG 
(Continued lrom lJagc One) 
it seems, prefer to be all wet even 
when they might be dry, and so 
they have drawn their nickels and 
pennies put of Mr. Mcllons bank 
and bought themselves a long
time ticket to Subterrnea, where 
the fountains play the whole year 
around. What the amateur biolo
gists arc going to do , is a prob
lem. We suspect theyll have to 
use picklcd worms this year.
Maybe they wont, at that,' for 
here, after wed gone and gotten 
all the dope down pat, or thought 
we had, didn't it go and snow 
cats and dogswell, perhaps not 
thut bad, but it certainly snowed 
wet, anyway. We went back to 
the D.octor with a bruised and in
dignant air. Said he, "Dont you 
know that all signs fail in dry 
weather?"
STATISTICS
(Continued from Page One) 
positions and the salaries s ecu red, 
was the best during the ten-year 
period.
University men have been quick to 
recognize that Campus Cords have 
an identity, a character, of their 
own. Tailored with the same skill as 
the best clothes, Campus Cords 
have the smart hip-fit and hang 
that good trousers should have. 
The material is the finest Crompton 
corduroy, narrow-ribbed, in a dis
tinctive cream shade.
And Campus Cords keep their 
characteristic style to the very end 
 after countless trips to tho washtub or the dry-cleaners.
Good stores, with a keen sense 
of what university men want, are 
showing these good-looking cor
duroy trousers. . . . Ask for them 
by name, pleaseCampus Cords.
'Tailorod by
ELOESSER-HEYNEMANN CO.
NewYork Lo* Angola* Portland San FranciscoTrade-Mark Registered
CAMPUS CORDS
SMART CORDUROY TROUSERS
Another "Across the Continent 
Clan Day is to be held I Last 
year the plan of having all the Car
negie Tech Clans arrange meetings 
to be held simultaneously was in
augurated and the idea met with 
such enthusiasm that another, day 
is being planned again this year 
on Saturday, March 14.
Last year a number of the clans 
were unable to join in the plan be
cause of previous arrangements, 
but all evidenced their interest in 
carrying out the idea another year. 
This year wc want all of the clans 
to be with us. It should be a day 
in the year when Carnegie Tech 
men and women in all parts of the 
country get together, figuratively, 
letting the Carnegie Tech spirit 
pervade the da3f.
You should get in touch with 
your clan officers to make plans at 
oncc and to join with us in our 
plan. Any further information will 
be given by Miss Ruth AndrcAvs, 
Secretary, Alumni Office, C. I. T., 
and if you need a list of the alum
ni in your district Miss Andrews 
will send you one, if you advise 
her what towns you include in 
your district.
Get together-with us'on March 
14!
Milwaukee Clan
The officers for the Milwaukee 
Clan for the year 1931 have been 
elected. They arc Roland.C. Kurtz, 
President, 645 Tenth avenue, and 
George M. Cooper, Scc$gtary, 1425 
West Kilbourn avenue, Milwaukee.
The oiliccrs offer any services 
they may be able to render the 
Alumni Federation and feel con
fident lljat their clan will have a 
successful year.
CLAN NEWS
RECOMMENDATIONS
(Continued from Page One) 
convenience. In making up this file 
the Bureau of Recommendations has 
discovered that there is a wide 
choice open to the graduate student 
as advanced work is available in 
every department, of engineering. in 
every section of the country. The 
head of each Engineering Depart
ment has been furnished with a 
list of universities and colleges of
fering graduate work in his respec
tive branch of study. Seniors arc 
advised to consult this list in order 
to make a tentative choice of insti
tutions before applying to the Bu
reau of Recommendations for de
tails.
V
THE SAME PEN 
TWO WAYS 
As a Pocleit Pen, 
Converted for Dik
Author of
Sherlock 
Holmes'7
used this
ALUMNILUEUMM WSLhehrl AUr 
GUARANTEED FOR LIFE
31% more Parkers in college too 
as nation-wide pen poll shows
The late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle wrote reams of manuscripttried 
nil sorts of pens. Came the day, as it has to 26 million others, when 
he discovered the Pressureless- Writing Parker Duofold. I have at last met my affinity in pens," he siid. You, too, can gain great aid from this Pen that lets you write 
without strain, and think without 
irritation. Go to the nearest pen counter and look for the name  
Geo. s. I.ukn -DUOFOLD"- <m the barrel. That Gunrdnttts the 
genuine fir. Lift.
The Parker Pen Company 
Janesville, WisconsinParLerDuo/old
PEN GUARANTEED FORLIFE-S5-J7-510 
Pencils to match Ihtm all: S2.50 to S5 
Other Parker Pens, S2.75 and S3.50
Business and Professional Directory
An appreciation of the patronage of the students and graduates 
at Carnegie Tech and an expression of faith in the growth and 
prosperity of this wonderful institution.
Cleaners
Accountants
DOMIIOFF & COMPANY Certified Public Accountniits 2127 Fnimcru Building Atlantic 4713
SHEPPARD" & COMPANY Certified Public Accountants 
Oliver Build ini: Atlantic 1640
PHILIP II. STKOIIL nnd COMPANY 
Certified Public Accountant442 Fourth Avenue Court 1117
WED. A FTERNOCJ Y701-2 Commonwealth Building,
Court 0184 Pittsburgh, Pn.
Acid Proof Equipment
DURI RON COMPANY Empire Building, Wm. I. Slvitz,.
Advertising
GENERAL OUTDOOR ADVERTISING COMPANY 
61Q- Fifth Avenue  Mayflower 2240
Advertising Business
MAIL ADVERTISING 
SERVICE 319 Fifth AvenueAtlantic 1290
AdvertisingNovelties
C. W. LARSON COMPANY Ferry Street Court 1765
Air Conditioning Systems
GEO. J. MEYERS &, SON Ventilating Engineers and Contractors 3223 Kcnnett Square, Mayflower 2244-S
Alloy Companies
Apartments
BELLEFIELD DY/ELLINGS 
4-11)0 Center Pittsburghs Oututnnding Residential Apartment Hotel  Bntclielcr Apnrtmcr.tn 
nnd Rooms Mnyflowcr 4006 W. F. Shoemaker, Mgr. 
Under Schcnloy Acres Management
HAMPTON HALL,IGfi N. Dithridgc. Street  Sri-.enlcy -Idilli 
MARTINIQUE APARTMENTS ~~ 4740 Baum Blvd., Mayflower 3023
The Best In Efficiency Apartments
WENDOVER APARTMENTS,
,5562 Hobart'Stret  Hn 71(10 At ths Hobart Street Entrenes Mc Schonlcy PnrkOffers for May 1st leasing 315 room suites  Moderate Rentals
Architects
LAMONT H. BUTTON,2502 Grant Building, Atlantic 12G9
0 COMPLIMENTS OF A FRIEND
J. PHILLIPS DAVI3, ioli)
1323 Fulton Bldg., Atlantic 7499
DAVID GLDNER 5737 Holden Street, Mnyflowcr 5448
HARRY GINSBURG,- 805 Plaza Bldg., Atlantic 2492
HANNAH 
209 Ninth Street,
LINK, WEBER & BOWERS 407 N.' Craig Street, Mayflower G533
G4t o I V o IL 4R oII c XL t ,T17DDE7StUH 
Architect 
Commonwealth Building Annex
M. NIRDLINGER, A. I. A., 
Registered 111 Pennsylvania,Empire Bnilding, ; ;_____ Pittsburgh, Pp.
CASIMIR j. PELLEGRINI, RegiHtcro'd Architect, 002 Penn Avcnjioi Member A- I. A Mo 9G80
- GEOllGE M. RQWLAND, ^ Registered in PennBylvnnia, Bakewcll Building; 417 Grnnt Street,* Pittsburgh, Pn.
FREDERIC 1. MERRICK,Kppern Building, _ Atlantic 2543
; LOUIS STEVENS,1000 Century Building, Atlantic 0738
WALTER T. STULEN, . > 
101 Mnrlcct Street, Court <isi<;
 HARRY VIEIIMAN,
Registered Architect 
Chamber of Commerce Building, Atlantic 8120
Arches and Air Cooled Walls 
For Boilers and Furnaces
Armored Express Company
BRINK'S EXPRESS-COMPANY G07 Chamber of Commerce Building, 
____Atlantic 1765
A rtists
405 Pei
J. R. HOPER, Keenan Building,Atlantic 0G61
E. V. HUDSON.Commendai Artist,Investment Building, Atlantic 475.'
Attorneys
COMPLIMENTS . OF. AN ATTORNEY
SUZANNE S. BEATTY, . 507 Union Trust Building, Atlantic G419 Asst. City Solicitor, 341 City-County Bldg.
ALBERT G. . BROWN,
Grant Building. Atlantic 4477
JAMES F. COYLE,2005 Law & Finance Bldg., Grant 2242
N. R.. CRISS,501 Berger Building, Court 2588
CHAS. .W. DAHLINGER,518 Fourth Avenue, Court 1837
ALEXANDER E. ECKLES,602 Bowman Building, Court 4801
Aufo Supplies
BOULEVARD AUTO SUPPLY^COMPANY 3751 Bigelow Blvd., Mnyflowcr 6633-Ownod and Operated by Pittsburgh People with Pittsburgh Capitnl for Pittsburgh Patronage.
Automobile Dealers
PACKARD MOTOR COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH.
4709 Baum Blvd., Mnyflowcr 5400Excellent Service Fncilitics Ask The Mnn Who Owns One
Automobile Glass Companies
AUTO GLASS REPLACEMENT CO., 282 Morewood Ave., Opposite Ford Plant Service-  Sales  Nbn-Shattcr Glass  
Wing Shields Mayflower 84GG
Automobile Service
AUTO WELD1NG & RADIATOR CO. 3567 Blgelow Blvd., Mnyflowcr 6347Repairing nnd Rccorlng Rndlutors Fender and Body Repnlring, 
Electric WtittUng, Alumlnum & Acotyleno 
Fimi" AVENTE SERVICE GARAGE 5301 Fifth Avcmie,Locomobile Service, General Auto Repnlrlntr, 21 Hour ServiceFender andBody Repairiniv, Srlienley !UH5
JOSEPH LEWIS.3915 Forbes Street Sehenley 0190Auto PnlrtingBody and Fender Work 
NASH PITTSBURGH MOTORS CO., 430 N. Craig Street, Mayflower 6100
Nnsh Automobiles, Parts, Scrvlc
Used Cars______________
PITTSBURGH UTO BODY COMPANY Body and Fender Repairs  Duco Rcflnlshlng,
1201 Washington Blvd., Hilnml 308'
SAMSON MOTOR COMPANY 
Chrysler DistributorsGood Used Cars 4613 Baum Blvd., Mayflower 2300
Repair and Service on all Automobiles 
PF4.B 0G93GYDe-Soto and Plymouth Distributor 
5S74 Baum Blvd., Montrose 1700
Day and Night Service
Awnings and Decorating
A. MAMAUX & SONS,120-122 Boulevard of the Allies, Court 8962, Pittsburgh, Pn.
Motor Controlled Awnings For Roof 
Gardens, Country Clubs, Pirvate Homes and Stores.Canvas Goods of Every Dcslrfption.Canopies for Weddings nnd Receptions.
Bakers
FELDMAN BAKERIES,1907 Murray Avenue, Hazel 63472034 Murray Avenue,
Wc use the highest ingredients for nil and Pastriesfresh three times dnily. 6102 Penn Avenue, Montrose 1202
WM. JOIIE,
1502 Lincoln Avenue, Hilnnd 4804
Bakery, nnd Confectionery
Ball and Roller Bearing Cos.
SKF INDUSTRIES, INC., HESS-BRIGHT MFG. CO.,
SKF BALL BEARING CO.,ATLAS BALL CO.,Grnnt Building, Atlnntic 7440
BIGELOW LIPTAK CORPORATION Mr. O. P. Kohler, District Manngcr, 2907 Grnnt Building, Pittsburgh, Pn.Atlantic 5255
Banks
BANK OF PITTSBURGH, 
Nntionnl Association,226 Fourth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pn.
THE FIFTH AVENUE BANK OF PITTSBURGH,1349 and 1-351 Fifth Avenue, Grant 1453
HIGHLAND NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH,6102 Penn Avenue, Tontrone 12024% on Savings Accounts nt the Highland
THE KEYSTONE NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH,322 Fourth Avenue, Court 5520
Beamy Shops
BEATTIES HAIR SHOP,58-19 Forbes Street, Hazel 5575Miss Snyder, Manager,
Hair Cutting, Marcelling and Manicuring
CURCIS BEAUTY SHOP,Tcsbjt Building, 6024 Penn Avenue, Entrance on Sheridan Ave., Montrose 3191 
Permanent Waving Our. Specialty.Experts in Bcnuty Culture.The Hcaterlcss Method, Also the Eugene Method.
PFAB BEAUTY SHOP,477G Liberty Avenue, Schenley 2G24
Specializing in Eugene V/uves 
Waves $4.50  French Wave S3.00  Marceling nnd /Finger Wnvcs 50c.
Bedding Companies
STAR BEDDING COMPANY,1910 Forbes Street, Atlantic 7918Manufacturers of High-grade Beds, Mattresses nnd Springs.
Blower Companies
AMERICAN BLOWER COMPANY, First National Bank Building, Atlnntic 3496 Manufacturers of air handling' equip* mdnt "(finte 1881v'
VENTILATING.. -EQUIPMENT . fiORpN, Bessemer Building, (( Atlanti^ 3}8l
Blue Prints
A. H. MATHIAS & CO., Established 1892 
Blue PrintsPhotostats 319 Fifth Avenue, Atlantic 1800
Bolt and Nut Companies
OLIVER IRON AND STEEL CORPORA
TION,1001 Muriel Street, Court 0842
Bookbinding Companies
BAER &  WEIS 
244 Boulevard of the Allies, Court 1260 Bookbinding in Every Description.Thesis 
Binding a Specialty.___________
Booksellers
S. VITARO. & SON,G19 Webster Avenue, Grant 8948,Italian Grammars nnd RendersSpccinl to Students. Itnlinn Books, Sheet Music, 
Records nnd Plano Rolls.
Bonding Companies
COMMERCIAL CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY',
Grnnt Building, Grant 2300
SUN INDEMNITY COMPANY OF NEW YORK,
903 Lnw nnd Finance Building,Atlantic 4788-4789__________'
Bottlers
Drink Ace Ginger Beer PITTSBURGH VALLEY BOTTLING CO., 
1904 Bedford Ave., Atlantic 7693____________Pittsburgh, Pa.
Bowling Alleys
DISPATCH BOV/LING ALLEYS,
1331 Fifth Avenue, Grant 9492Make a Real Pleasure of Needed Daily 
Exercise
MURRAY-BEACON ALLEYS,
Power Ventilation Gives Clean Air. 1916 Murray Avenue, Hazel 943G
- Erick Contractors
CRAWFORD and GIBSON, G024 Penn Avenue, Montrai_________Brick Laying Contractors
Brick Companies
EGAN, WEBSTER & CO., INC.,1402 Oliver Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pn.Atlantic 4291 ____________
ENTRESS BRICK COMPANY,2408 Bedford Ave., .Mayflower 3009Manufacturers of Red Brick
Broker Investments
Compliments of a Friend JAMES L. ADLER
Builders
KAPP BROS.,
Now Developing Yorkshire Road, Newest 
Development in Point Breeze Peoples-East End Bldg.,______Emerson 1331
J. LAUER & SONS,Building Contractors 
10 Portland Street, Montrose 3651
Builder Supplies
MARION COAL & SUPPLY COMPANY 4200 Kansas Ave.<916 Second Ave. Hazel 0117-0118 
Builders SuppliesReady Mixed Concrete Coal nnd Coke
Cameras
ROOTS KAMERA EXCHANGE,
312 Diamond Street, Atlantic 1346Superior 1'inishing and Enlarging 
GEORGE G. ROOT,312 Diamond Street, Atlantic 1346
Cards
OLDE SCHENLEY SHOP,415 South Craig St., Mayflower 7892
Greeting Cards for Every Occasion Salo of Dresses and Millinery
Chromium, Nickle and 
Copper Plating_____
CHAPPELL MFG. CO., Ornamental Brass and Bronze SS19 Kirkwood St.. Pittsburgh, Pa.Hiland 0830 _________
Cleaning Compounds
STANDARD SODA CO., American Ban^ Bldg., Atlantic 3397
AMERICAN CLEANING & REPAIRING COMPANY,Damngcd Garments Rewovcn and 
Guaranteed to Look Like New 6339 Penn Avenue, Hiland 5600
Cleaners  Dyers
CRANDALL .McKENZIE, HENDERSON, INC.,7025 Chaucer Street. Hiland 5390
OSWALD WERNER & SONS COMPANY, 
Cleaners and Dyers 
700 Bryant nnd St. ClnirMnin Oflicc Baum Blvd. and S. Highland Enst End Brnnch 631 Penn AvenueDowntown Store Montrose 2700
Cleaners and Tailors
S. D. MARCUS,Squirrel Hills Lending Clonner and Tailor 
Mens Suits Tailored to Order Forbes Street, Hazel 6609
Consulting Engineers
THE J. N. CHESTER ENGINEERS,
J. N. Chester, D. E. Davis, J. F. LnBoon, 
J. T. Campbell, E. E. Bnnkson Consulting, Hydraulic, Sanitary and 
__________Valuation Engineers____________
Coal Companies
BLACK ARROW BLOCK The Coal With a Reputation BRUSHTON COAL CO., _________Pittsburgh, Pa._________
Confectioners
EATMOR CHOCOLATE COMPANY, 85Q Center Ave.,________ Pittsburgh, Pa
Construction Equipment
Cork Companies
Costumers
KIRALFY' COSTUMER,New Location, 308 South Craig St. 
Mayflower 6139__________Res. Schenley 0162
Dealers in Vending Machines
C. Logiodice,
EAST END DISTRIBUTING CO.,514 Larimer Avenue._________Emerson 94 84
Detective Agencies
UNITED DETECTIVE SERVICE,E. E. Dillcy, Manager An Ethical Licensed and Bonded Detective 
Bureau. Investigations and Shadowing. 
Protection Guards. Represented in All Principal Cities. Telephone Day or Night, 
___________Montrose 9252._______________
Disinfectants
.T. P. Gilbert,GILBERT MANUFACTURING CO., G369 Frnnkstown Ave., Hiland 0745 For Exterminntion of all Insects, Pests, Rats and MiceWork by Experts Guar.ntced for One Y'earNo Kill, No Pay, _____________That's Our Way______________
Displays
SHERMAN STUDIOS,
130 Third Avenue, Court 1292Designers nnd Builders of nil Types of Commcrcinl nnd Industrinl Displny
Decorators
J. P. MARSHALL,
682G Simonton St., Montrose 2072Pninting nnd Pnperhnnglng 
Estimntcs and Sketches Furnished
Delicatessen
 ! OPERA DELICATESSEN,3911 * Forbes ..Street, Schenley 9852Wc 'Gnrry a Large Assortment of Ready to Eat MeatsTry Our Spccinl Luncheon
: Dictaphone Sales Co.
DI.CTAPHONE SALES CORP.,
102 BcHsemer Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pn.Atlnntic 5G17 'Doubles Your Ability to Get Things Done"
Dictating Machine Co.
DICTATING MACHINE CO. OF PGII. Jenkins Arcade, Pittsburgh, PiGrant 1405 Machines for Snle or RentExpert Repnir Service nnd Supjilles-r-Slightly Used 
' Mnchliies Guaranteed_________
Dress Suit Rental
El). SCHWERIX.335 Fifth Avenue, Atlnntic 2870
For HireTuxedo, Full Dress ant Cutaway Suits
Drug Stores
SANDOMIRE PHARMACY,
805 Forbes Street, Hazel 3615Full Line of Pens, Fountain Pens and School SuppliesFilms Developed
Electric Refrigeration
FRIGIDAIRE SALES Sc SERVICE, G24 Penn Avenue, 713 Liberty Avenue 
Montrose 7200 The Chole of tho Majority
FloristsRetail
OLIVER FLOWER SHOPPE,
5828 Forbes Street, Hazel 0350Flowers, Fruit, Pottery, Center Pieces, 
Flornl DecorationsNight - Calls,Hnzol 1595-R Residence, McKeesport 21107
Ladies Wearing Apparel
MILGRIM DRESS EXCHANGE,128 Onklnnd Ave.. Mnyflowcr 8899
From Exclusive Wardrobes
Laundries
BARNES LAUNDRY- COMPANY, 
Atlantic Avenue and Dearborn Street Montroso 0124-0125 
Dress Shirts a Specialty
Mailing Lists
THE CENTRAL PRESS BUREAU, Wabash Building, Court 2154
Clnsslkcd by Locality, Occupation or Kind 
of Business. Automobile Lists a Specialty. Mailing Guaranteed.
Meat Market
MORROWFIELD MARKET,Louis Wintner, Prop.2625 Murray Avenue, Hazel 4870Quality Meats and Fancy Groceries 
Fruit and VegetablesWo Deliver
Metal
FEDERATED METAL CORPORATION, 
Smelters and Refiners of Metals 615 Gross Street,_____________Schenley 2410
Mill and Mine Supplies
COLONIAL SUPPLY" COMPANY,
217 Water Street,________________Court 4488
Millinery and Gowns
Millinery Business
For Your Spring Hat 
 INEZ MILLINERY,Schenley Apartments________Mnyflowcr 4444
Moving Companies
W. J. DILLNER TRANSFER & STORAGE CO.,
601-603 Mclwood St., Mnyflowcr 4567Moving  Packing  Shipping
Naturopathic Physician
MAHONEY, J. H.,316 South Highland Ave., Montrose i Enjoy Good Health By Taking 
_______ Naturopathic Treatments______
N urseries
SQUIRREL HILL NURSERY,Fred Wisscnbnch & Co.,2945 Becchwood Blvd., Hnzcl 3617
Complete Lnndscnpe Service
Nurse
Opticians
To the Students of Pittsburgh DUNN-SCOTT CO.,Schenley OlTice:Physicians Bldg., 121 University Pince Downtown Office:
Suite 4047, 4th Floor, Jenkins Arcndc Bldg.
Optometrists
DR. H. K. GESTRICII,4726 Liberty Avenue, Schenley 2824Pcrlodicnl Eye Examinations Assure 
Better Vision
JOHN  M. REED,6101. Penn Ave., 509-A Liberty Bldg. ______ Montroso 140G_______________
Osteopathic
DR. S. W. DOWNEY',608 East End Trust Bldg., Montroso 1924 _________Compliments of n Friend_________
Paints - Varnishes - Brushes
C. A. MICHEL & CO.,640 Smithficld St., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Atlnntic 5761
Paperhangers
ISRAEL BLINK,
2 Onklnnd Squnre Mnyflowcr 7994Specializing in Pnpering nnd Decorating 
Phpcr Furnished
Personality Shoppe
PERSONALITY SHOPPE,5815 ForbeH Street, Ilnzel 9314
Pcrsonnlity Hnts to OrderRibbon Hats 3 to $6Pcrsonnlity Wnvcs nnd Eugene 
PcrmnncntsSpccinl Price to Students
Photographs
FRANK TOTINO STUDIOS,3710 Forbes Street, Mayflower 8979Photographs For All Occasions 
_____________Rcnsonnble Rates______________
Photographers
BALENO STUDIOS,512 Larimer Avenue, Montroso 8277WeddingsPhotographing a Specialty
Real Estate
HARRY II. BRAINERD,3100 Forbes Street, Schenley 2439Homes For Snle and Rent In Vicinity, 
of Carnegie Tech
Real Estate Appraisal 
Companies
JAMES J. DURNING, JR.,307 Bencdum-Trces Bldg., Court 2166
Restaurants
Food Products Companies
KEYSTONE POTATO CHIP COMPANY', 
6635 Kelly Street, Montrose 0254Dc Millers Potato ChipManufactured 
by Keystone Potato Chip Company
Ford Dealers
C. E. MOODEY MOTOR COMPANY, 
519 Water, Street, Court 5681
Furniture and Interior 
Decorating
DAULER-CLOSE FURNITURE CO., 
636 Smithficld St., Atlantic 6076
Furniture and Interior Decorations Oriental Rugs
Gasoline Service Stations
WILKINS SERVICE STATION, 
5600 Wilkins Ave., Squirrel Hill, Schenley 2500 Battery ServiceCar Repairing 
Special Concessions to Tech Students Roy W. Johnson
Gift Shops
MARGARET A. OWENS GIFT & PARTY 
SHOP,145 Union Trust Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. ValentinesMonogram Stationery $1.00 
Box upInvitations Embossed and 
Engraved
Health Institute
YOUNGS SYSTEM, INC., First Floor, William Penn Hotel, 
Atlantic 0576
Heating Company
RELIANCE HEATING COMPANY, 
3610 Fifth Avenue, Mnyflower 9300
Hotels
BULGER HOTEL.19 Collins Avenue, ' . Emerson 9735 Rooms 51.00' Up
Insurance
NATIONAL UNION FIRE INSURANCE 
COMPANY',
139 University Place, Mayflower 5990
Instruments
TAYLOR INSTRUMENT CO.,411 Oliver Building, Atlantic 1128
ThermometersBarometersTemperature 
and Pressure Controls
Investments
A. E. MASTEN & CO., 
Established 1891 204 Koppcrs Building, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Grant 5300 
Members New. York Stock Exchange
CATHEDRAL MANSIONS COFFEE SHOPPE,
Mayflower 8100 Another Placc to Eat
GARDEN INN,5145 Liberty Ave., Emerson 9699
Specializing in Bridgo Luncheons
GARDEN TEA ROOM,5316 Liberty Avenue, Emerson 9591We Cater to Bridgo Luncheons, Afternoon Teas and Dinners. And Wo 
Cater to the Most Discriminating
People ___________
GEORGIAN DINING ROOM AND 
CATERING SERVICE,In the Georgian Apartments 5437 Ellsworth Avenue, Schenley 6625 
We Specialize in Sandwiches, Chairs and Covers R. W. Thompson, Manager________
KOOKLEYS TEA ROOM,3710 Forbes Street, Schenley 8491
Special Luncheon, 35c and 50cDinners, 65c and 75c___________
THE MIAMI,
6120 Center AvenueJust Off Penn Enst Libertys Newest and Finest Dining1 
Room. Jack nnd Tony of Radio Fame Entertaining Every Night from 10 to 1, . 
Z' DANCING
NEW PIONEER RESTAURANT,
310 North Craig St., Schenley 9027Home.Cooking Our SpecialtyHome Made PiesModerate PricesAn Eating 
Place of Refinement
REGENT INN RESTAURANT,114 Atwood Street, Schenley 9404
SCHENLEY RESTAURANT,307 Craig Street. Schenley 9065
Try Our Special Breakfast Luncheons 
Dinners of Distinction
Seeds
THE I. W. SCOTT CO.,500 Liberty Avenue, Atlantic 2022
Sheet Metal Work
JAMES J. MARTIN,3911 Forbes Street, Mayflower 4534
Roofing, Spouting and Jobbing a Specialty
Sheet Metal Products
EAST END SHEET METAL COMPANY, 
5623 Eva Street, Montrose 7017Cornices, Skylights, Mctnl Roofing, 
Ventilators, Roof Repairing
Sheet '& Iron Products
McKEE-OLIVER, INC.,
1326 West Carson St..___________Court 4S20
Singing
GEORGE D. HERWIG,Teacher of Singing^
"American and European Experience Under Best Masters
Studio, 504 Reymcr Bldg.. 23J Fifth Ave. Atlantic 3414 Res. Mayflower 9568
Tile
PITTSBURGH MANTEL & TILE CO143 Enterprise Street, Hiland 214STile Work of Every Description

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 19311THE CARNEGIE TARTANvoi- ..'HKEE.
586 Penn Ave.
ALUM MN IAEWSWhe erloeEl
Ube Carnegie Maib
WASHINGTONS BIRTHDAY DANCEFEBRUARY 3 MEN'S GYMNASIUM
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS.
The Women's Glee club is plan
ning- two concerts foi* the early 
part of the second semester. The 
first will be held February 17 at 
West Park. The second will be 
given for the Business Mens Bible
Class the evening; of February >20, 
in Aspinwall. 1 
Detailed plans for the concert 
programs have not yftt been mad6, 
but the programs will be of the 
usual type.
THE SLUSHY VALENTINEWomens Scholarship 
Organization To Hold 
Benefit On Feb. 23
POST - HOLIDAY DANCE , WASHINGTONS BIRTHDAY 
EXTREMELY SUCCESSFUL] DANCE TO BE HELD
FEBRUARY 23
-(Continued from Page One) 
unkind and awfully rude and send 
one that is hideously crude.
Remember, when you got a card 
with no name signed, though you 
looked hard to find out who sent 
it, there was nothing on it any
where? Remember how you count
ed all you got and vied each with 
other for a lot? The one who had 
the most became the envied one in 
this child's game. But now we 
get them oftentimes with printed 
name below the rhyme. Fie, fie 
on those who's spoil the fun and 
stop the game, ere its begun I So 
lets be young and foolish, too, 
forget grownupness and taboos, 
and send a few nice Valentines 
with sentimental slushy rhymes. 
'Twill please Dan Cupid, that is 
true, but most of all twill please 
herand you!
During the past week group pic
tures of the night students have been 
taken and the Night Thistle Staff 
wishes to thank those night students 
who co-operated with them to make, 
these pictures and the taking of them 
as successful as was possible. It is 
a very difficult task to get all the 
pictures taken on schedule time, a 
little delay at one place or another 
is always sure to crop up, but the 
students who turned out certainly 
helped materially in the getting the 
pictures.
The individual pictures of those 
students who will finish their courses 
will be taken at a later date, an
nouncements of which will be made, 
and it is hoped that the same sup
port will be given when the call is 
issued. Mr. J. J. Lcindcckcr is Night 
Editor, .and Mr. H. E. Mauro is 
Business Manager of the Staff.
Each year the Women's Scholar
ship Organization gives a theatrical 
benefit in order to secure funds to 
enable them to award scholarships 
to deserving day students in the Mar
garet Morrison and the Art School.
The offering this year will be 
Michael and Mary starring Madge 
Kennedy at the Alvin Theater. While 
the play will be given during the 
whole week, only the tickets which 
arc sold on the campus for the Mon
day night performance will aid the 
benefit. The price o the tickets will 
range from $2.50 for orchestra scats 
to 50 cents for second balcony. A 
pre-sale of tickets will be held on 
the campus and all the night students 
who arc planning to attend the per
formance arc urged to purchase tlie 
tickets at Carnegie Tech.
The Womens Scholarship Organ
ization is sponsoring a very worth}' 
cause and it ' is hoped that the 
benefit will be a success. Any aid 
which the night group can give 
will be appreciated. Miss Nancy C. 
Newman is in charge of publicity.
Thc'Night Student Council added 
another successful function to its 
long list of social activities, when 
the Post-Holiday dance which was 
held on Janucry 24 came to an end.
It is extremely difficult to con
vey to those who were ntit present 
at this affair what .a transformation 
took place in the Mens Gymnasium. 
The decorative idea and scheme 
was -well thought out and success
fully transformed what was a mam
moth hall in the afternoon into a 
beautiful ball room enveloped in the 
wonderful colors of the Plaid. 
Ever>r detail was .executed to a 
degree of perfection which would 
seem hardly possible to accomplish 
in such a short space of time.
The guests of the evening were 
Dean Green, Professor and Mrs. R. 
B. Lcjghou, Mr. and Mrs. W. B. 
Gress, and Mr. and Mrs. W. H. 
Doscv.
The Town Tattlers certainly 
could tattle the music, and although 
this was the first appearance of this 
group of musicians the impression 
they left should leave a desire for 
more music from this source.
As a next social Offering the 
Ni_ht Student Council will hold its 
Washingtons Birthday Dance on 
February 23, so you better reserve 
that date.
Preliminary plans arc being made 
for the Washingtons Birthday Dance 
which is to be held on February 23 
in the Men's Gymnasium.' This is an 
annual function which has been spon
sored by the Night Student Council 
for a number of years and some
thing new is always sure . to be pre
sented.
The Plaid docs not need to go into 
detail about this affair for the older 
students on the campus because they 
know that a big time is always sure 
to be. had, but for the benefit of the 
new 'students we wish to tell you if 
you dancc at all be sure to reserve 
the twenty-third of February for this 
dancc, as it is sure to be a big event.
More details will be available, we 
hope, for the next issue of the plaid, 
but in the meantime dont let this 
date slip by without making arrange
ments for the?friend.
MARCHING 
with modern industry 
to World-Power
Yes, I was one of those who 
wondered what had become of "my 
Tartan for last week, and I am 
Wondering yet. Wont somebody 
tell me, or will I have to go to the 
post office to find out. I always 
like to see what is in the papers 
and enjoy reading the columns of 
the Plaid.
They say there is nothing new 
tinder the sun, but I think differ
ently, which doesnt matter, but 
anyway this pig driving or calling 
contest which seems to be taking 
the country by storm is certainly 
a new campus activity; at least 
there is one college which boasts of 
the occupation in * the very near 
vicinity. Of all the things I.have 
lieard of, or read about, thii ap
pears to be about as useless in a 
large city, or should I say small 
city, as Pittsburgh. Wouldnt it 
look fine to have some college 
swain going along Fifth avenue, or 
the Boulevard, or in fact any one 
of our main ' thoroughfares driving 
a flock of pigs to win a prize, 
especially with all the fast moving 
chariots we have today? That 
Would be a good idea for some 
jcollege fraternity initiationI'm full 
of ideasso I wont be' surprised 
in the least if it is pulled off. Thats 
a pig story, and pigs is pigs, so I 
(guess I better leave it for some
thing more to the point.
I notice,, yes they have been to 
my place, that the census is being 
'taken of the unemployment situa
tion here, and I did register my 
idle thoughts which; of course, dont 
amount to much anyway. The in
formation should be of some ser
vice and we hope that it will aid 
3n relieving the .very pressing situa
tion which the country finds itself. 
Lets all put our shoulder; to the 
wheel of progress and give it such 
a push that it wont stop turning 
for the next twenty years, notwith
standinggee, that is a twenty-five 
dollar wordthe fact that, the 
economists tell us that we have 
these periods periodically (you de
cide how much that word is worth) 
hut they dont stop them for us. 
.Guess we will have to invent some 
sort of perpetual motion to keep 
the good 'times going all the time.
Good evening "Book "Review Vig
nette and how arc you this eve
ning? Glad to sec you back in 
our midst again. I hope you will 
be vwith us for a little while, at 
least a week or two. Yes, you bet
ter have another one next week 
or Ill frame you.
No I dont take things too seri
ously which, no doubt, accounts for 
the title of this rambling jumble of 
words and thoughts. I suppose I 
better get a little serious though 
and try to do something instead of 
just wishing and letting the other 
fellow do the work. There is a 
great deal of truth in the- recent 
article "Taking Things too ScriousIn the great new power plant that 9erves 
the city of Buenos Aires, Crane valves 
and fittings are found in use. In the paper 
mills of Ontario and the water power de
velopments of Niagara Falls, engineer# 
swear by them. Camels carry them into 
the depths of the Abyssinian Desert and 
dog sledges into the wilds of Canada.
The quality of Crane piping materials has 
won them a world-wide demand. The 
globe-girdling Crane distributing organi
zation has placed them within easy reach 
of power and industrial builders every
where.
Naturally, this distributing organization 
is most complete and efficient in the 
United States. In this country are facto
ries in five cities manufacturing industrial 
piping matcrials;branchcs and sales offices 
in 160 cities; warehouses in close prox
imity to every important industrial center* 
All these facilities are keyed to receive 
orders for quickly needed materials and 
have them on the spot with no loss of time.
No matter where you take up your career 
after you leave school, you will find need 
for piping materials from the complete 
Crane line, and a Crane office nearby to 
make it easy for you to get them.
CARNEGIE TO PLAY HOST
The prominent colleges of the 
Mid-West will be represented at 
the conference. The total cost is 
ten dollars registration fee and 
five dollars minute fee.Typewriters
ALL MAKES AND COLORS 
Special Discount and Rental 
Rates to Students
American Typewriter Co.
415 FOURTH AVENUE 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Court 1019
DR. H. LUBICK
Dentist
402-403 Forbes Building
Office Hours: 9 A. M. to 12 Noon, 
1 to 5 P. M., 7 to 9 P. M. 
Sunday By Appointment 
Tel. May. 8521 3619 Forbes St.
TYPEWRITERS
All Makes Sold and 
Rented
On January 31 Nu Sigma Alpha 
initiated its pledges into the mys
teries of the organization at a meet
ing held at the Carnegie Inn.  An 
exceedingly large number of the 
members was present to welcome 
the new men and help them over 
the difficulties of the formal initia
tion. The night students, who be
came members at this meeting 
were: G. E. Miller, S. H. Klingensmith, il. F. Dunn, H. A. Polsun, 
H. E. Sclnvarzbach, F. A. Kolsun, 
F. Cassel, T. J. Calnan, and G. W. 
Vessels.
Special Rates to StudentsThe next issue of Puppet will be 
out on February 10 when the night 
salesmen will be on hand to sell you 
the copy. The .night students have 
been loyal in supporting this publica-- 
tion and it is hoped that they will 
continue to do so. The new number 
is very clever so be sure to get 
your copy before it is sold.
Agency Underwood, 
Royal-Remington and 
Corona Portables
THE OAKLAND 
BANK"
OFFICERS
C. B. AYLESWORTH......Vico Pres.
R. J. MILLER...................Vico Pres.
C. W. EHNI..............Asst. Vico Pres.
F. W. COTTON.......Anni. Vice Tre.
O. C. YOUNG_________Asst. Tren*.
ADAM ROSG___:---------Asst. See.
Standard Typewriter Co,
129 FIFTH AVENUE
Phone Atlantic 0342UNIVERSITY
RESTAURANT
At 4605 Forbes St., near Craig St.
Lunches served from 
11 A. M. to 9 P. M. 
Dinners served from 
.5 P. M. to 9 p. m. 
Up-to-Date Equipment 
Home Cooking 
Open Day and Night
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
ly which appeared in the Tartan 
and if you didnt read it, yoU 
missed the point.
The Personal Writing MachinesC. H. Aylesworth 
Jnincs B. Clark 
John pimliiur
Bnritey Dreyftiss .
J. Rogers Flmmory
L. II. Gcthoofer 
C. H. Kerr,
J. O. Miller
R. J. Miller
John G. Pew
A. n. Sheets
TECH SHOE 
REPAIRINGOakland Branch
Forbes & MeyranFORBES STREET
For Superior Workmanship 
and Service
r*\vurm nifiPaint Hardware .. Electric Supplies
Oakland Hardware Co.
Mayflower 0923 Iroquois Block
YOUR TUBES MAYBE
86me HAVE JH E M)
AoAockH msTERosLS TO kOcVEY smD kOcTROL 
STEsmH LoQUoDS, OoLH GsS, kHEmoksLS 
kRscE kOH, GEcERsL OLAokESh 03N BH mokHoGsc sVKHH kHoksGO 
cES YORK OFFokES: 23 SH 4<eTH STREET 
Brant/m and Salti Officii in Out Hundred and.NInily-ilie Clihi
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEMTESTED FREI
Wo service nml adjust any radio set 
free with tho purchaso of a complete set of tubcB.
Wc sell nit good rndlo tubes nnd re
pair nil mnkcn of rndlo sots. Esti
mates furnished. Wo spccinllzc in 
Zenith, Brunswick, Victor Phlleo, At
water Kent, Bosch nnd radio combina
tions. Write or cnll for tubo price 
list.
Rent" the Latest Style Hand-Tailored Tuxedo Suit 
arid Accessories From Us.
ALL SIZES PERFECT FIT
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Da/ Phone: Night Phone:
ATLANTIC 9595 EVERGLADE 0918-J
Columbia Music Co.
The- Old Rollatilo Store
101 Sixth St., Pittsburgh
Phone ATlantic 4655
Open Saturday Evening*
Arc 
Welding
Which of thse cigarettes 
is the tallest  but maybe 
youre on to this one!STUDENTS HAVEN 
ATMOSPHERE 
GOOD FOOD 
Open Friday, Saturday and 
Dance Nites Till 2 A. M.Diminishes the Din of Steel 
Construction to a Whis.YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU
BUT
your taste tells the Truth!
I
N BostonDallasLos Angelesand 
in other cities, lofty buildings are going 
up so quietly that the passerby all but 
stops and strains an ear for the old familiar 
clangor.
Silently, swiftly, rigidly, economically, arc 
welding knits steel with joints as strong as 
the metal itself.
Arc welding is being used more and 'more 
in the fabrication of buildings and ma
chinery, the construction of pipe lines and 
tanks, and as a repair tool of universal 
utility.
Development of General Electric arc weld
ing has largely been the work of college-' 
trained men. Others of the college men at 
General Electric are largely responsible for 
the high reputation won by ( hundreds of 
G-E products used in industry and in the 
home during the last thirty-seven years.
Keep in Mind
College Parties, Class 
and  Fraternity Affairs 
catered at reasonable 
prices. _Ask for Menus 
and Estimate.
PastriesIce Creams 
IcesCakes  Candies 
Nuts  delivered as 
needed. Phone your or
der.
Equipment _ rentedTa
bles, Chairs, Linens, 
China, Glassware  in 
any quantity.
Try our noon and eve
ning lunches zuJten in 
Eaat Liberty.
Stores Hours:
8 A. M. to 11:30 P. M.
95*830
JOIN US IK THE GENERAL ELECTRIC PROORAU, BROADCAST 
EVERY SATURDAY EVENING ON A NATION-WIDE N.B.C. NETWORK^A LUMLN IEWWSEh 4 SmM eWrlooW cWk

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1931.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 
AFTER OFFICE HOURS CALL 
Editor-In-Chief .....................................Hazel 1990-------Schenley 9211........ Schcrlcy 2389
Pnbllnhcd onco every week during the college yonr by undergraduates of Carnegie Inatltute oi Technology. Entered In tho PlttaburKh'Tost Office an second-class matter.
THE STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF-------
BUSINESS MANAGERPLAID EDITOR------------
NEWS EDITOR-------------
WOMENS EDITOR------
____Nancy C. Newman
___David I-I. E. Gentcr
-Edward E. McDonald
___________Isabel Levin
__Grace L. Borgcrding
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Harry Wall Doris Mather
ALUMNI 
Editor____________Ida M. Campbell
Assistant_Mary Townsend
JUNIOR EDITORS
V. McBride Edward Steiner
Mary Hauser Gertrude Novak
Harry Kolb Nancy Sloan
Contributor _______Madeleine Halt
BUSINESS
_ . -, 1 William GoslingJunior Managers- j PauJ wi]c
iR. E. Campbell
Assistants______i Irwin FritzIjohn Kronenberg
CIRCULATION
Manager---------:_____R. E. Campbell
Assistant____!____1-----------R. Frank
ATHLETICS
Editor-------
Assistants______John Alms
Mike Michaelson 
Harry Hower 
Joe Bronson 
______Kay PalenWomens EditorPLAID STAFF 
James S. Geyser H. E. McGannon"
J. H. Sansonctti A. J. Clough, Jr.
Secretarial Staff 
Mary Gordan Pearle Goldberg
Floy Sample Dorothy Yingling
Elizabeth Lillcy
REPORTERS
S. Winikoff H. Maxwell
K. L. Gress J. Ginder
Z. Mazza M. Dougherty
R. Grant B. Prellcr
L. Hoyer R. Phillips
D. Allison H? Steinberg
J. Halpern B. Bates
ATTENTION, ALUMNI AND OTHERS!
Use this- blank for the tickets you are ordering for the 
scholarship benefit.
Here are the prices: Boxes, $3.00, $2.00; orchestra, $2.50;
first balcony, $2.50, $2.00, $1.50; second balcony, $1.00, $.50.
; I want to come to the Womens' Scholarship Organization 
Benefit at the Alvin; Theater on February 23 and see Madge Ken
nedy in "Michael and Mary.'
I am enclosing a cheque for..........................for..----------------
tickets.' I would like to sit___________...(approximate location.)
Name-------------------------------------------------------------------
Address your order to Womens Scholarship Organization, 
Carnegie Tech, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh,- Pa.
IMPERIAL MFG. CO.
WHOLESALE 
MENS AND BOYS CLOTHING
806 PENN AVENUE - PITTSBURGH 
3 Doors Above Stanley Theater
Now showing new Spring Styles of students and young mens 
suits arid  topcoats in the latest shades and fabrics at a positive 
saving of 25% to 35%.
Howdy, You All!
Well, Zack Whyte and his Beau 
Brummels may play music of the 
Don Bestor style, but it must be 
on their night off. True to the 
traditional style of Negro jazz, the 
1931 Junior Prom orchestra burned 
themselves up Friday evening and 
Saturday morning. The only thing 
that kept the party -from hitting 
the roof was the high ceiling at 
the Schenley. Harry Ziegler and 
the rest of the Delta Skulls put 
on the peppiest Junior Prom in 
Carnegie history, from all avail
able records. Financially, the af
fair was a complete success, with 
well over 200 couples in attend
ance. The reduced price seems to 
have brought results. Maybe next 
year itll be $6.00! And on the 
other hand, !
Its evident that the Intcrfratcrnity Formal committee is going to 
have set aside a special stamping 
grounds for the Sigma Nus. They 
probably will anyway, as Bill Bry
ant is chairman of the committee 
and is also the Chief Stamper of 
the Sigma Nu tribe. Mary McKeon and Mary Boucherle, with Paul 
Wile and Bill Bryant, had to be
faster than ever to keep from be
ing stepped on during the stamp
ing episode in the middle of the
floor..
Zack Why/p was relieved, during 
the playing of "Tiger Rag by the 
swallow-tailed figure of. Buzz, 
K omits,  wlio shook himself 'all over 
the stage and led the boys in rather 
good fashion. His best effort zuas 
wapning his hands over the exhaust 
from one of the clarinet solos. Joe 
Herbst also had swallow-tails, but 
all he led was Carol Reese, and* that 
isnt even hard!
A few audible gulps were heard 
when the favors were brought out. 
They looked suspiciously like cig
arette lighters, which, between  you 
and me, wouldnt be just the thing
NITE STUDENTS!
Try the Special 50 Cent 
Dinner Served From 5 to 8.
SKIBO INN
WOODLAWN AVENUE 
Open Until Midnight 
Sandwiches - Candy - Smokes
for Junior Prom favors. Luckily, 
they turned out to be atomizers, 
of very unique design, with " 32, 
Junior Prom suitably inscribed on 
them. Quite nice, say we, quite 
nice.
If Larry Baughs girl had looked1 
carcfully at the right leg of his Tux 
trousers she would have noticcd 
some very fancy repairing about a 
week old. While passing some big 
mansion last week Larry was at
tacked by a dog and his trouser 
torn. Confronting the dogs owner in 
indignation, Larry was asked if $20 
would be enough for a new pair of 
trousers. He answered affirmatively, 
with doubt. Larry is now $19.50 to 
the aood, as the repair cost only 
fifty cents. Nice work, Larry!
Anyway, we claim more stiff 
shirts buckled at the recent J. P. 
than at any preceding one, and 
thats a distinction.
Famous Words By Famous 
Profs: I knew him well.King 
George Follows.
Splinters *******
The most agonizing disappoint
ment of the recent exams so far 
was the postponement of Bill Geslings Philadelphia trip . . .Or is it 
"Goessling? ... A semi-formal 
dance is in the offing for the first 
boxing match at Carnegie, Satur
day, February 21 . . . The third 
 floor of Arts School now houses 
the largest indoor Ping Pong parlors 
in Pittsburgh, as 75 games may. be 
played simultaneously since all the 
legs were cut down on the Archi
tects draughting tables . . . Leonard. 
Schnuppe aud . Don Fletcher are 
spending the vacation in the hos.- 
pital, with Len minus an appendix 
and Dons knee in good shape.
Eyes Examined 
Free at Kappels
$7.00
New White Gold Glasses 
50c Down50c Weekly
KAPPELS
109 Sixth St. 
Downtown 6103 Penn Ave. 
East Liberty
CMON TECH
Lets Go to the
NEW 
Campus Barber Shop
Woodlawn Ave. at Forbes St.
PennantsCollege Jewelry Seal Stationery
C. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students Supplies
THE PUBLIC NUISANCE
EXAMS AND SUCH TRIPE
During the last few days, the Pub
lic Nuisance has been takifig, exams, 
and each time he does so he be
comes more thoroughly convinced of 
their general inutility. Examinations, 
he concludes, arc a necessary part 
of a collcge curriculum, or else why 
would an unusually enlightened 
faculty persist in following the cus
toms pf many generations of unen
lightened pedagogues..
And yet, on occasion, the Public 
Nuisance wonders. Just what do these 
examinations accomplish? Surely no 
one is so infantile as to believe that 
five little questions answered by five 
great white lies in the course of two 
or three hours, can in any measure 
give an adequate conception of zvltat 
a student knows- about a subject. A 
subject whose material covers three 
centuries, for example, and of which 
only the barest highlights have'been 
discussed.
In mathematics, in physics, in 
chemistry, and in" kindred subjects' an 
examination may be justifiable and 
may actually give an impartial pro
fessor some idea of the abilitjr, if 
not the worth, of a student. But in 
virtually anything elsehistory, phil
osophy, the arts'-r-in- fact anything 
which you, dear reader, have just 
taken an examination in with no 
great success, in all thesfe things, The 
Public Nuisance ' believes examina
tions are a relic of the<:middlc ages 
and scarcely'more than a mild form 
of torture created by the sadistically 
inclined members of our faculties.
But what, asks a despairing board
^gain . . . Phi Mu Alphas s^ng 
cdntest . was won by a Mechanical 
Engineer, Fred Latham , . . Second 
prize went to an alumnus, the well 
known radio announcer and former 
football star, Bull Yoder . . . 
Looks' bad for the Music students 
. . . Freddies prize winner is a 
real school song, if we know any
thing . . .
Til Tjesday
Regulating Your Expenses 
Making your spending 
money, go as far as possible 
requires careful and sys
tematic budgeting. A bank 
account will help you regu
late your_ expenditures and 
prove an inducement to sav
ing, thus laying the founda
tion for your future financial 
independence. The Mellon 
National Bank will be glad 
to have an opportunity to 
make your acquaintance, and advise you on your prob
lem. Your account is wel
come, too; regardless of its size.
Mellon National Bank
Pa.
Modern Industry 
Rolls on Timkens
New high standards of precision and production; new 
low levels of manufacturing cost. These are the direct 
benefits to every type of machinery made possible by 
Timken Bearings. These are the advantages which student engineers of today will be expected to provide tomorrow.
Small wonder that such sweeping results have carried 
Timken to the very top,as a dominant factor in leading industries.
In the very toughest jobs of all, machine tool spindles, 
Timken Bearings are rolling up close to the 100% mark 
on all the new anti-friction machines for heavy-duty production.
Go through all Industry with a fine-tooth comb. You 
will find Timken the one bearingand the one name that stands out above all others.
This is evidence of the most compelling' character of 
the superiority to be had only with Timken tapered 
construction, Timken positively aligned rolls and 
Timken-made steel.
These cost-shrinking, profit-expanding advancements 
will be just as easy to obtain in the future as they 
are now... in any type of machinery you may be 
called upon to design or buy ... through Timken 
Bearing Equipped. The Timken Roller Bearing 
Company, Canton, Ohio.
TECH BOUND STUDIO BINDINGS
Let us bind your Thesis Papers, Magazines, Dance Programs, etc. 
We teach Hand Bookbinding, Flexible Leather Work, the making 
of Writing Sets, Desk Sets, Ring Binders and many other useful 
articles. Evening lessons.
No Order Too Small or Too Big For Us.
REESE C. DAVID
 119 BOUQUET STREET
Instructor in Bookbinding at Tech 1923-30
DYNAMITE clears tlie way for modem engineering wonders !
The 
EMPIRE 
STATE 
BUILDING
How DYNAMITE 
tvas used in 
the construction of the 
tvorlds tallest 
building
A
NEW giant skyscraper now 
looks down on New Yorks 
magnificent skyline. It is the 
Empire State Building . . . and 
its topmost peak towers 1248 
feet above the earth!
It is the newest engineering 
marvel. Architects, engineers, 
steel workers, riveters shared in its 
making. But one mighty ally 
... DYNAMITE ... was first on the 
scenc to do its powerful bit.
Working efficiently, quickly, Dyna
mite blasted out solid rock so that 
the great foundation75 feet below 
the earthmight be placed. Thirteen 
thousand pounds of du Pont Dynamite 
was used on the job.
Skyscrapers . . . tunnels . . . bridges 
. . . highways . . . dams . . . reservoirs 
. . . these and numerous other engi
neering wonders are made possible 
through the aid of Dynamite.
If you would like to learn more about 
explosives and how to use them ... if 
you want to learn today for] tomor
rows. jobs . . . simply write direct 
to the du Pont Company for full 
information.
You will receive a copy of The Blasters 
Handbook, which contains a great 
deal of the va6t knowledge of the 
explosives gained by tho du Pont 
Company in 129 years of making and 
testing explosives. This book is used 
in the classrooms and libraries of 
leading technical institutions. Your 
copy is free. Write for it J
^ EXPLOSIVES
*tS.U.J.FAT.Oft
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO., INC., Explosives Department. Wilmington, DeL
of trustees, would, the Public Nuisancc suggest?
And here the Public Nuisance must 
make one radical statement in the 
vain hope that by temporizing lie may 
finally accomplish something. (You 
sec the P. N. still has to undergo 
some of these professorial machina
tions in June.) .
His drastic statement, therefore, is 
LET THE FACULTY ABOLISH 
EXAMINATIONS! With'such an 
extreme premise, perhaps he can. 
achieve a tiny  grant of mercy. How
ever, to aTiszvcr the immediate howls 
of the trustees, hes willing to com
promise. For the first two years, he 
will even add the junior year, let the 
examination system persist as it has. 
It zvill still be wrong but great 
movements grow slowly.
But for the SENIOR 3rearthat 
omniscient , phase of a young man's 
life before he joins the brigade of 
the jobless, let there be sweetness 
and light. To regress: the trouble 
with most students is that they take 
courses for credit rather than knowl
edge. How would it be if these in
dividuals took courses for knowledge 
and tossed the credits into Panther 
Hojlow? If they went to classes to 
learn something and not to achieve 
a diploma? If, in short, they went to 
schojal purposely and not because a 
college education has become a social 
necessity?
The P. N. once had the pleasure 
of listening in on a course zvhicli 
interested him. His attendance was 
regular, he actually performed some 
of the accessory reading which the 
professor suggested, and he had a 
thoroughly enjoyable time. No credit, 
of course; and no examination. And 
yet the P. N. is . willing to wager 
his very soul that he got more out
O 'vc cjcfcijOU^
On your radio* tonight . . . listen to Lorna Fantin, famous 
numerologist. Shell tell you how names and dates affect success in business, love or marriage. A real radio thrill.
WJflS and entire Columbia network it 
8:15 P. M. eastern standard time'
OLD GOLD
CIGARETTE 
RADIO PROGRAM
O !* liorillard Co,. Inc.
of that four months session and re
members more of it- today, than h^ 
docs of those last minute, uncorrelatcd crammings of only last week.
Please, Trustees, this year anyway, 
try a new system.
MAYFLOWER
HAND
LAUNDRIES
Special Rates For 
Students
Mending and Darning 
Free
We Call For and Deliver
413 S. Craig St.
Schenley 9393
HOTEL
MANGER
7th Avenue 50th to 51st Streets 
NEW YORK CITY
2000 Rooms
Each with Servidor and Circulating Ice Water. 
DAILY RATES 
NONE HIGHER
Rooms with RunningWater
For One $2.00 For Two $3.00
Rooms with Shower or Bath and Shower
For One $3.00$5.00 
For Two $4.00$6.00 

In the Moorish Grill
Hnrry Ford nnd His Hotel Monger Orchestra Piny Every Day for.Luncheon nnd Dinner. Danciost Orchostra inNowYotk
No Cover Chargo at Anytime
STUDENTS
ACCOUNTS WELCOME
at
Forbes National Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND PITTSBURGH
RICHARD K. MELLON...-:.-..THOS. H. McCANDLESS____
HARRY S. BROWN.........._.......MISS N. C. FITZPATRICK...
J. NEVIN GARBER...-...........J. NEVIN GARBER..................PAUL C. EDMUNDSON.........
OFFICERS
..............................................Vico President nnd Cnshler......'___;_____............................_.......Assistant Cnshler
.......;............................................... ....Assistant Cnshler.....................!..................................Assistant Cnshler___................................................................Assistant Cashier............................................................................Trust Officer
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
THOMAS S. BAKER President Carnegio Institute of Technolog
JOHN F. CASEY Prosident John F. Cnsey Co. 
ELMER E. COLt President Nntlonal Union Firo Innurnnco Company 
A. REX PLINN President Booth &. Flinn Company
HOWARD M. JOHNSON 
Auditor Llgonier Valley Rnilroad
HERBERT A. MAY Vice President Union Drawn Stool Company 
THOMAS H., McCANDLESS 
Vico President and Cashier 
RICHARD K. MELLON President; Director Mellon National Bank 
WILLIAM S. MOORHEAD Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS Reni Estnte 
ALAN M. SCAIFE , t
Vico President Wm. B. Scnlfo & SonB Compnny 
EDWARD R. W EID LEIN Rosen rehDirector Mellon Institute of Industrial
Business men, industrialists and engi
neers600,000 of themregularly read 
the MeGraw-Hill Publications. More 
than 3|000,000 use McGraw-Hill books 
and magazines in their*fausiness.
The Business Week Radio Retailing 
System Electronics
Aviation
Factory and Industrial Engineering and 
Management Mining Journal
Power Engineering and
Industrial Engineering Mining World
Coal Age Electric Railway Journal 
Textile World Bus Transportation
Food Industries American Machinist
Electrical World Engineering NewsElectrical Merchandising Record
Electrical West Construction Methods
Chemical & Metallurgical Engineering
An Industrys Program 
That Made Front-Page News
Cloth rolling off the looms . . . thousands of yards . . . mil
lions of yards . . . pouring into an already glutted market. 
Women and children working through the long night hours 
to produce more goods where less was needed.
From competitive chaos in the textile industry order and 
straight thinking have suddenly emerged. Through The 
Cotton-Textile Institute, an agency of the industrys own 
creation, the end of night work for women and minors has 
been decreed.
This single step projects on the horizon the following bene
fits: (l) Full time for the day worker instead of part time for 
him and the night worker; (2) more orderly production; 
(3) better working conditirins; (4) more profitable opera
tion; (5) better returns for mill and worker.
No wonder textile markets are stronger! No wonder the 
textile industry is raising its head and its good news is 
making the front pages!
Underneath all this new progress there will be found, as 
usual, a McGraw-Hill publication. Textile World long ago 
urged the abolition of night work for women and minors as 
one step in a program to restore prosperity to textile mills 
and employees. It has labored side by side with the industry 
for the achievement of that program.
So in many industries, today, youll find a McGraw-Hill 
Publication sponsoring progressive thought and action. If 
you keep abreast of the day-by-day achievements of the field 
you expect to enter, read the McGraw-Hill paper covering 
that field. Most college libraries have, or should have, 
McGraw-Hill Publications. Ask your librarian.
Product Engineering
Me G RAW - HILL PUBLICATIONS
McGAW-Hllt PU5USHING CO . IYofl - Chicago - Philadelphiat - Detroit  Si loufs- Cleveland  los Angele;  San Francisco -Boston  Gre
