UNION TOMORROW 
CWENS TEA DANCE 
McGEORGE'S BAND
VOL. XXV, No. 21.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1931.
Don estor Will Play at Women s Prom March 20
Annual Affair Will 
Held at William 
Penn Hotel
Be
TICKETS ARE ON SALE
Helen Prosser, Arts Junior, 
Will Lead Grand 
March
Don Bestor-s orchestra will play 
for the Women's Junior Prom in 
the William Penn Hotel on March 
20. Don Bestor is on a local tour
 of theaters under contract with 
Warner Brothers and will be leav
ing the day after the Prom for an 
extended eastern tour. Mont Carnegians arc acquainted with his 
music, and the committee feels that 
the announcement of Don Bestors 
orchestra will add another attrac
tion to the Prom.
Tickcts Still On Sale 
Tickets arc still on sale and may 
be. secured from Janet McClelland 
and Elizabeth Cannon or through 
any of the other members of the 
committee. It includes: Margaret
Accipiter, general chairman; Helen 
Prosser, assistant-chairman; Betty 
Phillips, programs; Floy Sample 
and Gertrude. Noyalc, favors; Rosa
lind Mitshelen, patrons; Helen Wil1 ettrs, orchestra; and Rachel Mcrcncss, posters.
Helen Pnesscr, vice president of 
the Arts School junior class and a 
student in the Department of Paint
ing and Decorating, will lead the 
grand march which will begin at 
11:30. At twelve dinner will be 
served. There will be two scatings 
for the serving of the dinner, and 
guests arc asked to remember the 
color of thcir ticket?/ as that will 
determine the time when they arc 
to be served. The dancing will 
begin at 10 and lhst until 2.
Urban Room to be Decorated 
The Urban Room, the Silver Ball 
y ** oin and t he CardinalRoom have ; "to Pin cured to rcccive and accom
modate the guests . conveniently. 
The programs have been appro
priately and cleverly designed to 
harmonize with the color scheme 
and decorations of the Urban 
Room. The ball rooms will -not be 
decorated; however, the colored 
lights of the Urban Room will be 
operated. The favors will be dis
tributed during the grand march.
The patrons and patronesses for 
the Prom include Dr. Baker, Dean 
Green, Dean and Mrs. Tarbell, Dr. 
and Mrs. Watkins, and Dean Keeble 
The chaperones arc Miss Winches
ter,. Miss Knight, Miss Spencer, Mr. 
Swanson, and Mr. and Mrs. Parisi.
Senior Chemical 
Engineers Plan 
Inspection Trips
Will Visit Plants in Ohio, 
West Virginia, and 
Pennsylvania
A score of industrial plants 
throughout Western ^Pennsylvania, 
Ohio, and West Virginia will be in
spected by the senior class of 
Chemical Engineers during the re
mainder of the second semester, in
cluding a contemplated visit to the 
Chemical Equipment Manufacturers 
Exposition in New . York on May 
7-S. Today the -seniors are touring 
the South Side works of the A. M. 
Bvcrs Company, while tomorrow 
afternoon they will excursion to the 
Davison Coke and Iron Plant.
A total of twenty-six inspection 
trips, which constitute' an interest
ing part , of the chemical engineer
ing course, will be made, the sched
ule of which, follows: Heinz Bottle 
Works, March 17; Heinz Vinegar 
Plant, March 18; Mine Safety Ap
pliance Company, March 24; Clairton Coke Works,- March 25; W. W. 
Lawrence Paint Company, West Car
son street, March 31. The Alum
inum Company of America at New 
Kensington, April 1; Standard San
itary Manufacturing Company, April 
7; Pennsylvania Rubber Company 
at Jeannette, Pa., April 8; Amcijean Zinc and Chemical Company 
of Langeloth, Pa., April 10; Pitts
burgh Coal Company, April 14; At
lantic Refining Company, April 15; 
McKcesport Tin Plate Works,% April 
17; O. Hommcl Company, at St. 
Heidelburg on April 21; H. H. 
Robertson Company at Economy 
on April 22; the Vanadiunj Corpor
ation. April 29.
White Lead Works at New Ken
sington, May 1; Ford Motor Com
pany, May 1; Glassmcrt Plant of 
Tarcntum Paper Mill, May 1; 
Homer Laughlin China Company 
at Newell, W. Va., May 15; the 
R. R. Thomas Company, East 
Liverpool, Ohio, on May 15; the 
Standard Electrotype Company, 
date indefinite; the Walter E. 
Hague and Son, Inc., date indefin
ite; and the Chemical Equipment' 
Manufacturers Exposition in New 
York on May 7-S.
Cwens To Serve Tea 
At Afternoon Dance
The Cwen Tea Dance to be 
held tomorrow afternoon at 4 
p. m. will be a circus tea dance. 
This type has proved, in the 
past, to be most entertaining. 
A number of surprises arc 
promised, including refresh
ments and several novel enter
tainments, which have thus far 
been kept secret. The Pitt 
Cwens have been, invited. Jerry 
McGeorge and his orchestra, 
who arc popular on the campus; have been secured. . The 
assessment will be thirty-five 
cents for men and twenty-five 
cents for women.
MORTAR BOARD PLANS 
BRIDGE AT FORBES 
HALL MARCH 28
Society Asks Cooperation 
of Students in Selecting 
Members
A * bridge party for alumni of 
Mortar Board, and Carnegie faculty 
and. students will be held by the 
active -chaptcr of Mortar Board on 
March .28 at Forbes Hall. The com
mittees that will take charge of the 
affair include: Ruth Buckwaltcr and 
Elsa Weber, tickcts; Betty Goodwin 
and Faith Hanna, tallys and decora
tions; Jmogenc Schory and Ann 
Dickinson, tables and table covers; 
Ruth Liebernian, Ida Campbell and 
Sally Beatty, candy; Nancy Newman 
and Isabel Levin, prizes, and Martha 
Lou Clarke, refreshments. Tickcts will 
cost four dollars a table or one 
dollar per person, and may be ob
tained from any member of Mortar 
Board.
A national requirement is that 
Mortar Board get public opinion on 
the girls who arc to be 'selected^ for 
the fraternity. In compliance with 
this requirement the girls ip Art 
School and Margaret Morrison will 
vote for not more than fifteen girls 
whom they consider worthy of the 
honor. This vote is being taken to 
dipcovcr the girls who, in the esti
mation of 'their fcllow-studcnts, are 
(Continued on Page Three)
GLEE CLUB TO HOLD 
CONCERT AND DANCE
The date for the combined Men's 
and Women's Glee Clubs home 
concert and dance has. been dcnnitcly set for March 27. The con
cert hicli precedes the dance will 
be given in the Exhibition room of 
the, College of Fine Arts instead 
of in , the Little Theater as was 
previously announced. After the 
concert, a dance will be held in the 
Carnegie Union from 9 until 1 
o'clock.
The Collegiate Imps, a popular 
Pittsburgh orchestra, will provide 
the music for the dance. This or
chestra is very well-known on- the 
Carnegie campus having played at 
senior balls and football dances as 
well as last' years Glee Club 
dance. *
The concert given by the com
bined clubs will feature a Cradle 
Song by Rimsky-Korsakoff. The 
edition which will be used is pub
lished only in England. The mu
sic has just arrived and is now 
beiqg practiced. The remainder of 
the program has not yet been de
cided upon.
The concert will be free of 
charge, but tickets for the dance 
will be $1.25. They may be pur
chased from any member of either 
the Mens or Womens Glee Club.
The Carnegie Union and the Ex
hibition room will be appropriately 
decorated for the event. The Fac
ulty clubroom across from the 
Union has also been secured as a 
lounge room. The committees for 
the dance are not yet announced, 
but Margaret Hertzler, president of 
the Womens Glee Club, and Wel
ter Jameson, president of Mens 
Glee Club, are heading the commit
tees for the affair.
PROM WILL FEATURE DON BESTORMUSIC SCHOOL WILL 
PRESENT THE MIKADO 
MARCH 12, 13, AND 14
Department to Present 
Special Matinee for 
Students
This well-known orchestra, which has played for several seasons at the-William Penn Hotel, will inter
rupt its Warner Brothers tour to play at the Womens Junior Prom.
Research Staff 
Begins Study Of 
Coal Problems
Men To Do Experimental 
Work in ThermoChemistry
The technical staff of the Coal 
Research Laboratory, recently coriiplcfcd with thp installation and 
equipment of ten new laboratories 
and a machine shop in the En
gineering Hall, has begun its initial 
experimental work on coal, accord
ing to Dr. IL H. Lowry, the Direc
tor of the Laboratory.
The experimental work which is 
now being started, is concentrated 
on the general problem of the 
mechanism of the thermal decom
position of coal. This study will in
clude investigation of the nature 
of the original coal substance,- and 
the yield and physical and chem
ical properties of the products ob
tained on heating coal under care
fully controlled conditions. Speci
fically, the following individual 
problems arc being studied:
(1) The action of chlorine on 
coal, in an attempt to learn more 
about the nature of the original 
coal substance.
(2) High vacuum distillation >of 
coal, in an endeavor to obtain 
primary, decomposition products. Jt 
is planned to carry out this at- a 
pressure of one thousandth tOtfqnC 
ten thousandth of a millimeter. 
Most previous vacuum distillation 
lr Jjccn made at pressures of 3 
millimeters or .greater.
(3) The influence of the rate of 
heating and the final temperature 
reached on the properties; of t-he 
products obtained from coal. This 
will include physical arid chemical 
studies of the nature of the solid 
residue as well as. of the volatile 
constituents.
(4) The energy relationships in
volved in heating coal under the 
same conditions as in the preceding 
problem. This will consist largely,, 
of measurements \>f heats of distil
lation and an attempt will be made 
to correlate the energy require
ments with the nature of the prod
ucts obtained in the- distillation. 
Such information should permit 
conclusions to be reached regard
ing the actual "mechanism of ther
mal decomposition of the coal sub
stance. -
(Continued on Page Four)
LEO R. SACK WILL 
ADDRESS Y.M.-W.H.A.
M. M. C. C. Freshmen
Nominate Class Officers
On March third the freshman 
class of Margaret Morrison met and 
nominated the following as? candi
dates for class offices' for the second 
semester:
PresidentMarian Holl, Mary Hus
band, Genevieve Rose and Charlotte 
Weiss.
Vice PresidentLouis Keating, Vir
ginia Artz, Margaret McKclvey and 
Martha Lincoln.
Secretary*Winifred McClean, Jean 
Ritzel, Alma McVcy and Gertrude 
Landis.
TreasurerAnna Jean Roberts, 
Sylvia Waide, Martha Robinson 
and Eleanor Millingcr.
Social ChairmanJulia Belle Gal
lup, Martha Toerge and Edith 
Schwartz.
Anne Seiberling; who was elected 
in the fall as freshman representa
tive to the Margaret Morrison Senate 
will hold this position for the re
mainder of the year,
Leo R. Sack, brilliant Washington 
correspondent for the Scripps-Howard 
newspaper alliance, will speak at 
the Y. M. and W. II. A. auditorium 
this evening on his version of one 
of the most timely topics of the 
day, On the Washington Front.
Sack, like a true war correspon
dent, will outline for his audience 
all the manoeuvers, sorties, and 
major offensives employed by the 
political generals during tlip particu
larly fierce battle campaign of Con
gress which has just ended. It is a 
three-cornered war, according to him; 
the Progressive against the Regular 
Republicans ; the Democrats and 
Progressives against the Old Guard 
Republicans, and the one major 
part}' against the other.
Sack will be able, if anyone, to 
reduce some order out of the political 
chaos. Ile is in constant touch witli 
the nations leaders, . having Washyjgton organized from a news-re
porting standpoint, the organization 
including the friendship of hundreds 
of men in public life, from Supreme 
Court justices down to. police
Dr. Kerr To Speak 
At Chapel Service
Todays chapel speaker will .be 
Dr. Hugh T. Kerr, Moderator of 
the Presbyterian Church of the 
United States. Dr. Kerr, who is 
pastor of the Shadysidc Presby
terian'Church, has. just returned 
from a speaking tour of nation
wide scope.. '
The music at tlie- services today 
will be furnished by the combined 
*Glec Clubs.
Leon Moisseiff 
Will Lecture in 
Union March y 17
Noted Bridge Expert Will 
Discuss Kill van 
Kull Arch
Leon S. Moisseiff, consulting .cn-. 
gineer and, according to Professor 
McCullough of the Civil Engineer
ing Department, one of the three 
most famous bridge experts in this 
country, will discuss the Kill van 
Kull Arch on March 17, at i:30 
p. m. in the Carnegie Union.
Air. Moisseiff was born In 1872 
and received his degree in.Xivil Enr 
ginecring from Columbia University 
in 1895. For eighteen years, from 
1897 to 1915, lie was a member of 
the Department 'of Bridges of the 
City of New York and for twelve 
years' was in charge of . plans and 
designs of bridges.
Since 1915, Mr. Moisseiff has de
voted' himself to consulting en
gineering practice. In this capacity 
lie acted as engineer of design for 
the Delaware: River Bridge between 
Philadelphia and Camden, from its 
inception to its finish. He served 
as consulting engineer , for the Am
bassador Bridge between Detroit 
and Windsor, and for the Maumee 
River Bridge of Toledo, Ohio. At 
present he is acting as advisory 
engineer to the Port of New York 
and is an authority on the Hudson 
River and Kill van Kull Bridges. 
In addition, he is consulting en
gineer for the Commissariat of 
Transportation, W. S. S. R., and 
(Continued on Page Four)
Costume Economics Dept.
To Present Fashion Show
Students Of Department of Cos
tume Economics and Teachers 
Training Department of Home 
Economics will take part in a 
fashion show to be held at Kaufmanns at 2:30 on Thursday-and 
Friday afternoons, March 18 and
19, and on Saturday morning at
11 oclock.
This is an annual event, which 
is made possible- through the cour
tesy of Ivaufmanns. The girls 
of the department who are to take' 
part in the show have designed 
the costumes. The materials for 
the costumes were furnished by 
Kaufman ns.
Other students besides . the de
partments already mentioned have 
contributed to this event.
The runway has been designed 
by Mr. George Kimberly, who is 
the technical director of the De
partment of Drama. Two other 
students of the Drama Department 
will take part in the show, acting 
as heralds. They will open the 
show with a short dance program. 
The Department of Drama also 
will decorate -v^ndows in Kaufmanns. The department of music 
will contribute the Misses Rose 
Aiello, Alyce Martin and Evelina 
Palmien, violinist, cellist and pianist xesgectayeljf, -
Thomas Graham 
Will Speak At 
Joint Y Dinner
Head of Obrlin Seminary 
Will Discuss Campus 
Ethics
Dean Thomas Graham of Obcrlin 
Theological Seminary, chairman of 
the Executive Committee of the National Student Y. M. C. A., will be 
the speaker at a combined Y. W. 
and Y. M. C. A. dinner to be held 
in the Margaret Morrison Recrea
tion Hall, Friday evening, . March
13, at 6 oclock. He has chosen 
"Campus Ethics as the subject of 
his address.
Dean Graham is making a special 
trip to Pittsburgh to talk before, 
the cabinets. From Pittsburgh he 
will go to Vorea College in Ken
tucky to speak to a "Y organiza
tion there.
Dean Graham was chairman of 
the Studcnt-Facultjr Y Conven
tion held for campus organizations 
at Detroit, Michigan, last Decem
ber. The delegates from Carnegie 
Tech speak very well of his ability 
as a speaker, Mr. Davis, executive 
of the Y. M. C. A., states that any 
students who are not members of 
the cabinets may attend the dinner, 
free of charge, provided they report 
to. the Y office by Thursday, 
March 12.
A nominating committee com
posed of Fred J. Stengle, John 
Alms, and Joseph Bronson was ap
pointed at a Y cabinet meeting 
held last Tuesday to-nominate office 
candidates for .next years, cabinet. 
Voting will be done by mail.' The 
date for the return of-- cards has 
been set for April .17. As has been 
the custom in preceding years, the 
officers' and. cabinet members for 
next year will be installed at a 
formal dinner in the spring.
Quite a lengthy discussion was 
heftl concerning the possibilities of 
a freshman camp that would be 
held instead of the usual ..corn roast 
during Freshman Week. It was 
unanimously decided that such, a 
camp would afford the new students 
a greater' opportunity than the corn 
roast to become better acquainted 
with each other. The plans pre
sented were that the freshmen be 
taken on Saturday afternoon to a 
nearby camp which, according to 
gfesent plans, would be adequately 
equipped to handle a large group 
for meals and for the nights lodg(Continued on Page Four)
Theta Tau Elects 
Officers at Meeting
The election of newr officers for 
Theta Tau was held on March 3. 
The new officers are as follows: 
Wm, Hagenlocher, regent; Henry 
Evans, vice regent; E. Jarret, scribe; 
Stuart Mj'ers, treasurer, and Herbert 
Criqui, corresponding secretary. The 
next- regular meeting of Theta Tau 
is to be held on Tuesday evening, 
March 17.
The formal Spring dinner dance to 
be held by Theta Tau on Friday 
evening, April 17, was discussed at 
its last meeting on Tuesday evening, 
March 3. The committee composed 
of Lawrence Baugh, chairman; Miles 
Kin ley, 'and W. W. Jones reports 
that the dance will probably be held 
at Webster Hall. It is expected that 
this dance will be* one of the best 
social- affairs of the year at Car
negie. All alumni of Theta Tau and 
friends of , its members are invited to 
attend the dance.
Theta. Tau is one of the outstand
ing professional fraternities on the 
campus. It is composed of Engineer
ing students who meet to discuss and 
sporjser work along engineering lines.
The principal parts have been 
distributed for The Mikado, a Gil
bert and Sullivan light comic opera 
to be presented by a collaboration 
of the music and drama depart
ments on Thursday, Friday, and 
Saturday, March 12, .13, and 14 in 
the Little Theater, College of Fine 
Arts.
The following have been selected 
for the principal musical roles: 
Yum-Yum, a ward of KoKos and 
the heroine of the Mikado, 
Susammc Scijgcr and Alberta Ir
vine; -Nanki-Poo, the hero and the 
son of the Mikado of Japan who in 
disguise as a wandering minstrel 
makes love to Yum-Yum, Malcolm 
I-Iiltz; KoKo, the Lord High Exc-utioncr whose court is ruled by 
the most proper etiquette, Richard 
Dryden; Peep-Bo, Evelyn Pfeifer; 
Pitti-Sing, Margaret Husband; ICatisha, Elinore Steenson; Pish-Tush, 
Richard Von Endc; Pooh-Bah, 
Roger Ingham; The Mikado, Paul 
Brautigan. This, cast will be assist
ed by a chorus of fifty voices 
selected from the B-ch Ch.
The plot of the Mikado concerns 
a wondering minstrel, a prince in 
disguise, who falls in love with the 
ward of the Lord High Execu
tioner. At the end .of the story a 
nearly wrecked love affair is 
rescued. With its setting in color
ful Japan the Mikado is full of 
lovely music, romance, and comedy.
J. Vick OBricnand Miss Jean D. 
Seaman, head and associate profes
sors of. the department of music 
will direct the music; Chester M. 
Wallace, head of the department 
of drama, will be in charge of the 
staging. Miss. Elizabeth Schrader, 
who is in charge of the drama de
partment costumes, will design the 
Japanese 'Costumes for the "Mik
ado.
Since there will only be enough 
tickets for the evening perform
ances to supply faculty demands 
and perhaps a few "persons -on the 
drama department list, is-will be 
impossible for students to attend 
these performances.. However, there 
will be a special production in or
der that students may see the 
performance, at 3:30 next Friday 
afternoon.
A.I.E.E. GROUP MEETS 
THURSDAY, MARCH 12
The student session of the Ameri
can Institute of Electrical Engine
ers will be held, as was first an
nounced, on Thursday, March 12, at
2 p. m. in the William Penn hotel. 
Tn the evening a banquet and dance 
will be held in the main ballroom. 
Music will be rendered by Pitts
burghs leading orchestra. Favors for 
the ladies and other special features 
will enhance- the pleasure of the oc
casion. Reservations may be made in 
advance for tables seating ten per
sons; the tickets are $3 each. Junior 
and senior men who are members of 
the Carnegie branch and who wish 
to attend this meeting may be excused 
from their classes on Thursday 
afternoon. Sincc matters of/vital im
portance will be discussed at this 
meeting, the officers hope, that the 
local chapter of the A. I. E. E. will 
be well represented.
The next meeting of the local chap
ter will be held in Machinery hall at 
the regular meeting hour, on Wed
nesday evening, March 1& At this 
time nominations for the officers will 
be presented. They will be elected 
at the following meeting. Student pa
pers will also be delivered at this 
meeting.
STUDENT CONFERENCE PASSES RESOLUTIONS OF IMPORTANCE
Journalistic Societies 
Sponsor Tea Dance
Dance enthusiasts will find 
entertainment on Wednesday, 
March IS, at a tea dance, spon
sored by Alpha Chi Alpha and 
Pi Delta Epsilon, womens and 
mens journalistic honoraries. 
The dance will be held in the 
Union from 4 until -6 oclock 
with an admission fee of 50 
cents for' men and 25 cerlts 
for women. Jerry McGeorge 
and his popular orchestra will 
furnish the music.
Alpha Chi Alpha and Pi 
Delta Epsilon will hold a joint 
meeting on the evening  of 
March 12 at the S. A. E..house. 
Arrangements arc being made 
to obtain a speaker from one 
of the 'Pittsburgh papers.
KAPPA SIGMA WILL 
BE HOST AT ANNUAL 
DISTRICT CONCLAVE
Formal Dance at Hotel 
Schenley Will Open 
Conclave
The Annual Conclavc of District 
Four, Kappa Sigma Fraternity, will 
be held by the Delta-Alpha chapter 
at Carnegie Tcch on March 13 
and 14.
District Four is made up of four 
chapters; Beta-Delta at Washing
ton and Jefferson, Gamma-Phi at 
West Virginia, Gamma-Omcga at 
Pitt, and Delta-Alpha at Carnegie. 
Each year one of the chapters 
holds the conclavc so that every 
fourth year it comes to. Carnegie. 
Last year the W. and J. chaptcr 
entertained with a formal dance at 
the George Washington Hotel in 
Washington; Pa., and a smoker tlie 
following evening, both of which 
were great successes.
In 1927 the Carnegie chaptcr 
was host and it was one of the 
best conclaves ever held but plans 
for this year look t^ surpass even 
that one. The conclavc will open 
with a formal dance on the eve
ning of Friday, March 13, in the 
ballroom of Hotel Schcnlcy. A 
well known orchestra, the Univer
sity Revelers from Akron, Ohio, 
has been-, engaged to play. This 
orchestra played at the , Sophomore 
Hop last year. The formal is the 
highlight of the' conclavc, for it is 
an event of unusual gaiety.
Music Dept. Plans Concert
The following program will be 
presented by students of the music 
department next Sunday evening, 
March 15, at 8:15:
HandelSonata, No. 4, for Violin and Piano AdagioAllegroLarghettoAllegro Clarice Parker and Anna Patterson MozartSonata in B flat for Cello,and Piano Allegro, poco maestoso AndanteAllegro non troppo, ma giocoso Ellen yan der Voort and Katherine Keppel BonnetJ____!__Variations do Concert, Op. 1
Second and third movements Priscilla LongBeethoven------Piano Sonata, Op. 31, No. 2
AllegroAdagioAllegretto Katherine KeppelKreisler ___________________Caprice Viennois
Kreisler  -------------------------Tambourin ChinoisWillibald Ryshanek, violinBrahms _______________:------------:---------------Sonata in E minor for .Cello and Piano Allegro non troppo Karl Forssmark and Evelina Palmieri AccompanistsMildred Cramer, Evelina Palmieri
Dr. Ross Discusses Governmental
Stabilization of Commodity ^Prices
(Editors Note.) The following 
are Dr. Ross views on the politi
cal problems caused by govern
mental stabilization. His views on 
the economic advisibility of schemes 
of governmental stabilization will 
be published in a future issue.)
In the last ten years stabiliza
tion of commodity prices by gov
ernmental intervention has gained 
popularity. One of the latest ex
amples of this trend is the attempt 
of our own Farm Board to sta
bilize the price of wheat. Such 
stabilization schemes usually fail, 
but aside from the question of 
their economic advisibility, they 
are a serious danger to world 
peace.
Within the last ten days, our 
own Farm Board has illustrated 
this aspect of stabilization in a 
striking manner. Wheat, the com-, 
modity the Farm Board has set 
out to stabilize, is an international 
commodity sold on the world mar
ket. To offset the depressing ef
fect of supplies offered from for
eign sources and to . withhold the 
weight of our own surplus crop 
from pressing too heavily on 
.prices* the Farm Board has been
obliged to buy about 140,000,000 
bushels of wheat.
Government Rules Dealer 
This means that the government 
has stepped into the shoes of the 
individual dealer. In other words, 
governmental attempts to stabilize 
the price of- a commodity means 
governmental buying and Selling. 
When more than one country en
gages in the same practice, the re
sult is competition among nations 
where only competition among in
dividual wheat dealers existed be
fore.
Such competition between na
tions obviously opens the way to 
international ill will. The actions 
of7 our Farm Board are regarded 
as official acts of the United 
States, j.ust as the adoption of an 
injurious tariff law is understood 
in foreign lands to represent the 
attitude of the- nation.
Tariff Arouses Europe 
Indeed the extreme sensitivity of 
foreign countries to the injurious 
effects of the Smoot-Hawley bill was 
one reason why the Farm Board 
should have trod lightly in its first 
appearance on the international 
(Continued on Page Four)^
Delegates Approve Better 
Means of Enforcing 
Honor Plans
NEW PRESIDENT ELECTED
University of Tennessee 
to Have Next Years 
Convention
The Mid-West Student Confer
ence, which was held at Carnegie 
March 5, 6 and 7, passed six im
portant resolutions, which will be 
stressed in many o'f the mid-west
ern colleges. These resolutions
pertain to a more successful cn-. 
forccmcnt of the Honor system, 
distribution of the activities- fee, a 
better system of financial support 
of student publications, and the 
further power of Student Coun
cils over student discipline.
Bethany Delegate President
Ir was decided that the next 
conference will be held at the 
University of Tennessee in 1932.
Noel Wical of Bethany was elect
ed president for the coming year 
and C. E. Christian of Penn State 
will be the new vice president.'1
Under the supervision of Marvin 
Fox, who was sccrctary-treasitrfcr 
of this years organization, an in
teresting program was arranged1. 
The delegates registered in the 
Union March 5, ajyjl the business 
session was opened by Director 
Mott, of the College of Engineer
ing, who extended a welcome to 
the delegates. Dr. Petty, of the 
First Baptist Church of Pittsburgh, 
was the principal speaker at the 
banquet held in the Carnegie Inn 
that evening. Later the. delegates 
atendcd the boxing matches.
Attend Inter-Fraternity Formal
After the business sessions on 
Friday, March 6, an interesting 
trip was made to the Carnegie 
Steel Mills. That evening, the 
-delegatr-s attended the- Inter-fralcr-: 
nity Formal at the William Penn 
Hotel. The final business'session, 
which was held March 7, consisted .. 
of the passing of the proposed 
resolutions. In the afternoon, the 
conference was Concluded by a 
tour of the city.
, The first resolution-was a unani
mous thanks for Carnegie's hos
pitality. The other resolutions 
were:
Resolution IT. Proper informalsion. concerning the appropriation 
of student funds should be pre
sented the student bodies of those 
schools where students contribute 
all, or a portion of that said fund.
Resolution III. All student 
councils should have the power of 
suggesting solutions or making 
recommendations in final decisions 
conccrning student discipline.
Resolution IV. The Honor sys
tem cannot operate successfully in 
schools where stress is placed on 
examinations and where ,oycr-im(Continued on Page Four)
Students Plead 
To End Forced 
Army Training
President Hoover Receives 
Petition from Seven 
Universities
A delegation of forty-five student 
leaders arrived in Washington re
cently and presented to President 
Hoover and to Congress a request 
for abolishing the compulsory feat
ure of military training frcm Amer
ican colleges. Led by Nathaniel 
Weyl of Columbia, the delegation 
was composed of representatives 
from Swarthmore, Bryn Mawr, 
Harvard, Yale, Johns Hopkins, 
George Washington, and the Uni
versity of Wisconsin. The delega
tion carried a petition from 10,000 
students.
This petition representing 55 uni
versities and colleges makes three 
specific counts against compulsory 
military training for.students. These 
objections are:
1. That military training makes 
doctrines contrary to the best prin
ciples of the American people.
2. That military training idealizes 
war and is thus inconsistent with 
the Kellogg pact outlawing war; 
and
3. That the majority of student 
opinion is opposed to military 
training.
The petitions were circulated on 
campuses throughout the country 
under the auspices of the Inter
collegiate  Council of the League 
for Industrial Democracy, in support 
of bills now before the House apd 
the Senate abolishing the com
pulsory feature of drill. Although 
the campaign was hurried, much 
interest was shown and also vigor
ous opposition, resulting in charges 
of subversive efforts, disarming 
the country, and aiding the Bol
sheviks.

---------------------------------------------------

( PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1931.
SPORTS AND ALUMNI NEWS
AN ALL-OPPONENT TEAM, sclcctcd by Captain George 
i\Te.isc, brings together live of th6 East's outstanding performers during the past season. In naming his star quint, Ncasc has included several names which are considered ,AllrAmerican ma
terial by leading coaches and scribes throughout the East, 
Kinsbruncr of St. Johns, together -with Fitch of Temple, arc named as first-string forwards, Bartrug of West Virginia as 
center, and Montgomery and Posack of Geneva and St. Johns 
respectively as guards.The second team includes Stecker of Army and Doyle of 
'West Virginia as forwards, Malowitz of' Buffalo as center, Aultman of Geneva and Baker of Pitt as guards.And if Carnegies fifteen opponents during the past season were to choose similar teams, there is little doubt but that 
^cases name would appear on quite a few of their line-ups.
* * * * *
JIM FERGUS, CALLED COLBERT by his roommate Stu Dueger, who in turn receives Elmer,, has been selected by 
the renowned Bob Hughes of the Pittsburgh Press to fill a guards position on his All-Sectional team. Colbert, only the 
second sophomore ever to make the mythical five, has undoubtedly done his share to establish Carnegie among the rank
ing Eastern teams this season by his stellar guarding combined with his shooting ability which has added many a two-pointer 
to the Tartan scores this year. Pprhaps his best showing was made on the recent Eastern invasion against West Point when 
he held Stecker, Armys captain who has been mentioned as a likely All-American forward, to two field goals. Colbert says 
lies just a year too late to show his stuff against! the Pitt ace of undying fame, one Chipper Charlie 'Hyatt, who, incidentally, .was the first sophomore to be selected on the Press All-Secvtional five.
SATURDAY NIGHT, the Penn State basketeers played host to the Carnegie* team, and, more than five thousand fans 
turned out to witness their team fall victims to a belated rally 
by the Tartan's which enabled them to emerge with a one-point 
victory, 31-30.In gaining; the eleventh and final win of the year, the Skibos overcame the 16-7 advantage'.held by the Nittany Lions within 
the first eight minutes of the second half, and froze the ball with the game at 21-20 until the crowd expressed the opinion 
that the Plaids reminded them of the Pitt Panthers. On that, .Penn State got the ball and a field goal, and proceeded to take 
their turn at freezing. A 25-25 tic livened both teams up, but the Staters profited most by scoring a three point margin. With 
'but a minute and a quarter to go, Jimmy Leonard made two I fouls to approach the Blue and White within one point. Then 
in the last thirty seconds of play, Captain Ncasc looped a win
ning goal from mid-court, and the rest was easy until the whistle checked the score at 31-30. '
*****
RAY BUCKLEY IS WONDERING how he is going to 
get his cigars now that basketball season is over. Coaches" 
rights were good for a dollars worth during the Plebe season, but now that thats done for lie will probably have to polish up on his handshaking.
Again
people talk excitedly of 
"Burning Air"
When u public display of gtis lighting 
was given in London in 18oa to celebrate 
the Peace of Amiens, people talked ex
citedly of burning air. Napoleon called it 
a grand folly, and Sir Walter Scott wrote 
that the world was going mad.
Thus was ushered in the era of gas illu
mination. It lasted for 75 years. Then 
electricity stole the field and the gas giant 
dozed through a quarter century, used 
chiefly for kitchen cookery.
Now it reawakens in a changed world, to 
new possibilities, greater opportunities.
Eighty thousand miles of pipe lines al
ready laid, extensively equipped with 
Crane valves and fittings, prove that the 
old problem of transportation is solved.
Pipe lines crisscrossing the country as 
numerously as electric power ones are 
freely predicted.
What has brought this second greater 
gas era? The answer is: piping materials. 
Thanks to these, gas men can say for the 
first time that they are able to pipe gas in 
enormous quantities from Amarillo gas 
fields to Chicago, from isolated natural 
gas fields to users everywhere.
No matter what field of engineering you 
take up on graduation, you will find its 
future and its growth interwoven with the 
development of piping materials. And, 
as in the past this development has, time 
after time, been first reflected in the com
plete Crane line, it will pay you to keep 
in touch with Crane research and Crane 
materials.
IC R A N E ,t
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL 
STEAM. LIQUIDS, OIL, GAS, CHEMICALS 
CRANE CO., GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 
NEW YORK OFFICES: 23 W. 44TH STREET
Branches and Sales Offices in One Hundred and Ninety-six Cities
TARTANS DROP LAST 
CONTEST OF SEASON 
TO GENEVIANS, 31-27
Plaids Lead at Half 18-12 
Score Tie Three Times 
In Last Period
Plaid Boxers Lose 
To Mountaineers 
In Return Bouts
Carnegie lost the last game of an 
otherwise highly successful season 
last night to Geneva College by a 
31-27 scorc. The game was played 
in the Carnegie gym before 
crowd of 2,QUO people.
The encounter \vak a nip and 
tuck affair throughout, with th 
scorc being tied no fewer than 
three times, these deadlocks all 'ap
pearing- in the second half. 'Ncasc 
and Fergus were the mainstays of, 
the Carnegie attack, and "Smiling" 
jimmy Leonard worked very well, 
but a shiner' received during the 
early stages of the game hampered 
him no little bit. Manning and 
Sole were the big guns for the 
Covenanters, with Montgomery put
ting in his bit by repeatedly getting 
the jump.at ccntcr.
Captain Ncase featured this game, 
which by the way, is the last which 
he will play for the Scotch and 
the Plaid. Not Only does the scor
ing Sheet point to him as the indi
vidual star, but his floor play mark
ed him as one of those players 
that any coach loathes to see leave. 
T! is final game, although lost, was 
a fitting climax to a brilliant career 
as a member of a Carnegie court 
squad.
Play by play account follows:
The game stared out in whirl
wind fashion with the Skibos sink
ing two field goals from formation. 
Geneva scored on two successive 
fouls and the score stood at 4-2. 
Ncasc pulled one of his famous 
flying mare" passes and Stcntz 
took it under the hoop for a 
counter. Geneva earned a double 
foul when Aultman was cut down 
on a scoring attempt, and the Gold 
and White again scored from the 
free throw stripe. Ncase came 
through with another marker, and 
then it was the Bcaverites turn. 
Manning and Fair each sank a 
bucket and the scorc was tied at 
8 all. Carnegie took time out.
With the resumtion of the game, 
Jim Fergus . dribbled the length of 
the floor for a two point counter. 
Successful 'tries by Montgomery, 
Leonard, Ncasc, and Fergus found 
the score at 14-9. Ncase took a 
pass from out of bounds and 
chalked it up. Montgomery and 
Siegal sunk four shots and the half 
ended with Carnegie on the long 
end of an 18-12 score.
At the whistle for the second half 
Geneva seemed to have found 
themselves, Fnir and Manning both 
finding the basket from the floor. 
Leonard then came through with a 
field goal after dribbling the length 
of the court. Sole sank half of a 
double foul and the scorc stood: 
Carnegie 20; Geneva 17. Mont
gomery and Manning kept up the 
barrage of shots and finally suc
ceeded irl putting Geneva ahead for 
the first time with a 21-20 ficbre.
Sictfnl tied It up at the fovil line, 
but Fair took one from the tip-off, 
and Geneva was again in the clear. 
Carnegie rallied at this point, Ncasc 
and Stcntz dropping in buckets to 
make the scope read 25-23 in Car
negie's favor. Montgomery and 
Aultman heaved in two shots and 
the Covenanters were again ahead. 
Stcntz again deadlocked the game 
at '27 all. Geneva then stold the 
game when Fair and Montgomery 
annexed field goals with but 30 
seconds to play. The game ended 
with the scorc 31-27.
1 Lineup:
Carnegie Geneva
Neasi (C) -------F------------ Manning
Leonard JL_-----'.F.----.....Fair
Stcntz--------------C.------Js------Sole
Fergus -------'~.G----- Montgomery
Siegal_____G......................... Aultman
Field goals: Nease 4, Leonard 2, 
Stcntz 2,' Fergus 1, Manning. 3, 
Fair 4, Montgomery 3, Aultaman 1.
Fouls: Ncase 3 out of 3, Leon
ard 1 out of 1, Stcntz 2 out of 3, 
Armentrout 0 out. of 2, Fergus 1 
out of 3, Siegal 2 t.ut of 3, Man
ning 2 out of 5, Fair 2 out of 4, 
Montgomery 3 out of 4, Aultman
2 out of 4.
West Virginias experienced and 
polished boxing team again con
vinced the. Tartan fighters that 
they arc a tough bunch to beat, 
the Mountaineers * swamping their 
opponents by a 6-1 count. Three 
of these six victories, however, 
were taken by the, default route, 
sincc several of the Carnegie box
ers had, sustained (injuries in train
ing or in other bouts. The bouts 
were held on Thursday to avoid 
interference with the Intcrfratcrnity formal.
Captain Du can is alone seemed 
able to stop his man. "Duke*' 
looked impressive in beating ICdrr, 
and cxccpt for a brief period dur
ing the third round lie had the 
situation well in hand all the way. 
Late in , the third, however, Karr 
rallied strongly and stung "Duke 
with a couple of stiff rights' to the 
head, but "Alex" was never really 
in danger.
In the featherweight division, 
Eddie Ashe put on the best scrap 
-lie has shown this 3fcar. During 
the first two rounds lie easily beat 
off Fishers attacks and landed 
many stiff counter jabs in the mixup. In the final session he seemed 
to be fighting to at least a draw 
when an old cut around his eye 
was -opened. The referee imme
diately . stopped the fight and 
awarded the decision to the, West 
Virginia fighter. Eddies footw'ork 
was much improved and the fans 
were surprised at his excellent 
ring generalship.
Affletrangcr .represented the Plaid 
in the lightweight section, and at 
first his 'left-sided style complete
ly baffled Hamilton, who was giv
ing them out for the Mountaineers. 
Iii the third round the West Vir
ginia bo3s experience began to 
tell. The climax came when Ham
ilton landed heavily with an ava
lanche of stiff body blows that left 
Affletrangcr groggy. The latter 
managed to hold on, however, al
though lie was down for a count 
of eight just before the final gong 
soiiudcd.
Because of illness during the 
past couple of weeks "Mike 
Rpstainc was unable to fight, but 
tw'o West Virginia boys, Captain 
Stunkard and Hesse, put on
HOTEL
MANGER
7th Avenue 50tli to 51st Streets 
NEW YORK CITY 
2000 Rooms
Each with Servldor nnd 
Circulating Icc Water. 
DAILY RATES 
NONE HIGHER 
Rooms w*if/i /lunnirijJIVnfor 
For One $2.00 For Two $3.00
Tvoorn.i with Shower or Bat It and Shower
For One $3.00$5.00 
For Two $4.00$6.00 

In the Moorish Grill
Hnrry Ford nnd His Hotel Mnnnc Orchcatrn Piny Every Dny to
No Cover Chargo at Anytime
PLEBE CANDIDATES 
FOR TRACK MANAGER 
REPORT TO MANAGER 
CADMUS IN GYM, 
WEDNESDAY, 5:30
Keep in Mind
College Parties, . Class . 
and Fraternity Affairs 
catcrcd at reasonable 
prices. Ask for Menusand Estimate.
PastriesIcc Creams 
IcesCalces  Candies 
Nuts  delivered as 
needed. Phone your or-\ 
dcr. ,
Equipment rentedTa
bles, Chairs, Linens, 
China, Glassware  in 
any quantity..
Try our noon and eve
ning lunch cs ivltcn in 
East Liberty.
Stores Hours:
8 A. M. to 11:30 P. M.
PLEBE CAGERS DOWN 
WEST VIRGINIA FIVE
The Plobcs registered an uncxpcctfcd win last Tuesday night by 
defeating West Virginia Freshmen 
31 to 28. Both teams played well, 
and not until the final whistle blew 
was the game decided.
During the first quarter the 
Plcbcs showed a spccdy offense, 
and drove through their opponents 
defense until they were leading 15 
to 7. However, the Baby Moun
taineers staged a comc-back in the 
next period, which brought the 
score to 20 to 18 at half-time.
The second half proved a very 
evenly matchcd period. As soon as 
one team scored the other would 
duplicate, making the game run in 
a scc-saw fashion. Some timely 
shots by Stewart and Edelblut kept 
tile Plcbcs in the running until a 
final spurt was unleashed by the 
Plebes, which netted them a fairly 
safe margin. The remainder of the 
game was marked by freezing the 
ball to put the game on ice.
To bring their total loses to four 
for the season, the Plcbcs dropped 
a game to the Penn State Fresh
men 21 to 16. This is the only 
contest staged between these teams 
this year. . There was no doubt 
that the Plcbcs were, not playing 
their usual game on this occasion. 
No comparison can be drawn be
tween their play in this game and 
that of West Virginia.
The first half was marked by 
slow playing and consistent fouling 
by both teams. Th^re was 
noticeable lack of drive in the 
offense presented by the Little 
Tartans. Very little change re
sulted from the rest between halves, 
for the Carnegie boys could not 
get going at all. Penn State Fresh
man seemed to be every place, 
taking advantage of all opportun
ities. In a desperate effort to over
come their opponents lead, the 
Plcbcs took a lot of long shots 
toWard the end of the game, but 
to no avail.'^VWWWWVWWVWWVWVWWVV/
classy exhibition that went over 
witii great interest to the crowd. 
These fellows were in the 145 
pound class.
Latham, of the Mountain out
fit, proved himself to be one of the 
classiest scrappers of the evening. 
His left \vas dynamite and Poun 
ccy learned to respect it- before 
manyi.;ininute? had , passed. .- Poun-* 
cey, oti the Other hand, is one of 
those  boys wl\o\ cannot be con 
vinccd that lie is licked, and he 
made it tough going all the way.
Before the main bouts started, 
tAvo fast preliminaries pleased the
TYPEWRITERS
All Makes Sold and 
Rented
Special Rates to Students
Agency Underwood, 
Royal-Remington and 
Corona Portables
Standard Typewriter Go,
129 FIFTH AVENUE
Phone Atlantic 0342
OFPFIN
The Personal Writing Machine
First Church of Christ
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH 
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday evening services 8 to 9
PaintHardwareElectric Supplies
Oakland Hardware Co.-y *Mayflower 0923 Iroquois Block
BUY YOUR NEW FORD NOW
FROM
A. M. FISHER E30 and J. Q. LIETMAN I30
REPRESENTING 
S. C. LEWARS, INC.
333 PENN AVENUE WILKINSBURG, PA.
CHURCHILL 8500
FOR YOUR CQMING FORMALS
Rent the Latest Style Hand-Tailored Tuxedo Suit 
and Accessories From Us.
ALL SIZES PERFECT FIT
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co..
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Day Phone: Night Phonet
ATLANTIC 9595 EVERGLADE 0918-J
CLAN DAY EVENTS
Philadelphia8:30 p. m., 223 N. 
Thirty-fourth street, Philadelphia, 
Pa. Entertainment: varied, R. M. 
Ward, 233, N. Thirty-fourth street.
Akron6:30 p. m., .University Club, 
Akron, O. Price $2.25 eachdinner, 
clancing, bridge. T. B. Gotham, Rub
ber Co., Akron, Ohio.
Schcncctady6:00 p. m., Sirkers 
Restaurant, Schcncctad}', ,N.V Y., 
$1.25 each. Entertainment: dinner. 
B. R. Hill. Industrial Department, 
Building 2, Gqncral Elcctric Com
pany, Schenectady, New York.
Washington, D. C.Notices will be 
sent out to all alumni in district 
announcing time and place, O. C. 
Heffner, 416 Sixteenth street, N. 
S. Canton, Ohio.
Canton, OhioNotices will be sent 
out to all alumni in the district
announcing time and place. Enter
tainment: Indoor golf and danc
ing. O. C. Heffner, 416 Sixteenth 
street, N. S., Canton.
Johnstown,  Pa.7:00 p. m., Capital
Hotel. Entertainment: Dinner,
Bridge, "500. Miss Emma Bell 
Haucli, 515 Grove street, Johns
town, Pa.
Pittsburgh, Pa.1:00 p. m., Carnegie 
Tech Club, 421 Fifth avenue, Pitts
burgh. 75 cents cach. Entertain
ment: Luncheon, President Baker 
guest speaker. Miss Chaney, 421 
Fifth avenue, or Alumni Office, C. 
I. T.
Youngstown, O.8:30 p. m., Linden 
Tea Room, Poland, Ohio. $1 cach. 
Entertainment: Bridge. George
Murphy, 1871 Selma i avenue, or 
Henry Kachel, 1125 Bryson street.
ChicagoJean Eakin Falkner, 7620 
Phillips avenue, (South Side), 8:00 
p. m. North and West SideGeorgian Hotel, Evanston, 111., 7:00 
p. m., dinner, 8:00 p. m., entertain
ment. In chargc, C. B. Schmidt, 
Laval Separator Co., 600 'Johnson 
Boulevard'.
crowd. The first one was between 
Carr, of the Carnegie varsity squad, 
and Burke, who has a big reputa
tion in local amatcurboxing circles. 
Both boys weighed 135 pounds.
The other preliminary bout 
brought together Wertz and 
Russo of the Plebe squad. Both 
lads show promise of developing 
into good scrappers.
ALL VARSITY AND 
PLEBE CANDIDATES FOR WEIGHT EVENTS 
REPORT TO COACH 
DEXTER, TROPHY ROOM, GYM, 
WEDNESDAY, 5:00
Pittsburgh Clan 
Plans Luncheon 
To Be March 14
The Carnegie Tech Club of Pitts
burgh plhns to observe "Clan Day, 
Saturday, March 14, in an interesting 
way. Arrangements have been made 
to serve luncheon at one oclock. 
Howard Bowman, president of the 
Club, will introduce Jack Beatty, who 
will act as toastmaster. Dr. Thomas 
S. Baker will be the guest speaker, 
and his address will- be of interest 
to every Carnegie man. All alumni 
in the Pittsburgh district, and also 
Faculty members of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology arc cordially in
vited to attend this celebration. Dont 
forget' to reserve the afternoon! of 
March 14 to drop in to the Carnegie 
Tech Club, 421 Fifth avenue, and 
help make "Clan Day in Pittsburgh 
as big a success as it has become 
in other cities. Dont allow the clans 
in distant locations to outstrip your 
local one in enthusiasm.
Two of the non-resident members 
of the Club, Mr. E. B. Taggart of 
Indiana, Pa. and Mr. R. I. Bost of 
Niagara Falls, N. Y., visited the 
Club Rooms last week while in 
Pittsburgh oil business.
on the 
rollicking ^ wat] to
EUROPE
6h/obodty.CAOS
on this 
cyiss^
Boys will be boys, ind girls, girli ... whether 
ther're 16 or 60! They cm be themselves in the 
rollicking, frolicking Tourist third cabin on IMM 
liners. .They suit hiving fun in. the morning, 
hive fun ill diy, ind liugh themselves to sleep 
it night. But they do settle down to some serious 
citing three times 1 diy.
$105 up
NO CLASS DISTINCTIONS on the Tourist 
third cibin liners de luxe, Finnland ind IVttUmland. Their entire cibin accommoditions ire de
voted exclusively to Touriir. The only steirherj ' 
of their kind in the world.
Also delightful Tourist third Cibin iccommodf 
tions on such fimous liners is Ma/niic, world's 
largest .ship, Olympic, Hemiric, Btltmland, Lip-, 
land, Britannic, Adriatic, Baltic, Crdric, etc.
Several jiilings eich week to the principal port 
of Europe ind the British Isles.
Send for fisciniting literiture describing  our Tourist third ybin in detail. -v
 L A. tiller, Mf/r., Arcade Union Trust Bldi/., A Han tic 
0.1.1.1, or /nil/ authorised tfcamshi]) aticnl.
WHITE STAR  RED STAR  ATtANTIC TRANSPORT
tr INTERNATIONAL MERCANTILE MARINE LINES
CLAN NEWS
Johnstown Clan 
The Carnegie /Clan of Johnstown, 
Pennsylvania, held its second meeting 
prior to Across the Continent Day" 
dinner in the Senior High School, 
March 3. The following officers were 
elected: Emma Bell Iiauch, 515 
Grove avenue, president; Edwin D. 
Lucas, 146 Rambo street, vice presi
dent; Ethlyri R. Baucrie, 1121 Mc
Kinley avenue, sccrctary-treasurer.
A committee was appointed to com
plete arrangements for the dinner on 
March. 14. It will send out notices 
to all alumni aiid former students 
early this week.
Akron Clan 
The newly-organized' Akron Clan of 
Ohio held a smoker at the Valley 
View Club, Tuesday evening, March 
3. The main business topic was the 
dinner to be held in connection with 
Across the Continent Day .March 
14. It was dccidcd to set the price 
for the dinner at $2.25 per plate and 
to meet in the University Club at 
6:30 p. m. .Aifter the dinner there 
will be a dance and also bridge.
W. K. Williams, George Bruggcmeier, Joe Major and-J. E. Chick' 
were, appointed to help get in Jouch 
with' alumni in the vicinity for the 
coming dinner. The present list of 
names has grown to eighty-six, .and 
it is believed that about one hundred 
will be. present^at the dinner.
Those who attended this meeting 
included : H. L. Huiderer, W. Loulan, 
H. Harpster, R. C. Altcrmatt, J. 
Cahill, W. IC. Williams, L. G. Gricbling, G. L. Tilbrook; George Bruggcmeier, John Cauffiel, R. L.- Pittman, 
J. W. Chick, E. L. Bruggeman, J. C. 
Major, C. Hixcnbaugh and T. 
Gotham:
MAYFLOWER
HAND
LAUNDRIES
Special Rates For 
Students
Mending and Darning 
Free
We Call For and Deliver
413 S. Craig St.
Schenley 9393
Slow movies of the 
test caught what no eye could.
The cars that collided 
on purposefor a laboratory testI
Crash! A flat car loaded with reels of cable slams into a standing 
freight train. A movie camera grinds away. Watching intently is a 
group of men  Western Electric engineers . . . What did such a test 
show? Just this  that the new steel reel for telephone cable does not
break under severe impacts  and the old style reel may . . . The stagChangingafamiling of this collision is just one more evidence of Western Electrics lechreplaccui'ood.
never-ending quest for certainty ... It is a part, too, of a policy
of giving new ideas a thorough trial  a policy which enables Western
Always open to new ideas andbettor methods. Electric to meet its ever growing responsibilities in the Bell System.
Western Electric
Manufacturers....Purchasers...distributors
SINCE 18 81 FOR THE BELL SYSTEMI

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1931.THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS.Ube Carnegie flMaib
ENGINEERING SMOKER, 
MARCH 21,
UNION
V7
Well, the shock of the tunnel in 
the basement of Arts Building was 
not enough, for the aesthetic feel
ings of the art students so they 
had to add. another improvement. 
This time it is an appeal to the 
sense of sight. No, I am not color 
blind, but I find it difficult to give 
a name to the shade of indigo 
which-', adorns the walls of the 
halls in the basement. It may be 
the intention to decorate the upper 
floors with the same hue, but. oh! 
please tone it down.
The last issue of ,the Tartan was 
surely a great number. Lots of 
news 'ncverything. Sure did enjoy 
it. Lets have 'more numbers like 
this one. Guess Ill write a longer 
column for the Plaid for this issue.
Did you say the-Dry Law was 
pernicious? Ill say it-i al| wet. 
Sure is a dumb thing to make 
' law that everybody trys toj break 
the first shot out of the bag. After 
ten short years, or so of endeavor
ing, lets endeavor to scrap it a la 
Wickersham. Now, thats an idea, 
dont all try to do it at once. Bet
ter take it by degrees.
NU SIGMA ALPHA TO 
HOLD MEETING MAR. 14
On March 14, Nu Sigma Alpha 
Fraternity will hold its annual 
meeting. This meeting will be held 
in the Carnegie Inn and will be 
preceded by a dinner which will be 
served at 6:30 p. m. Preparations 
are being made for a large attend
ance of members as indicated by 
the .response received for reserva
tions for the dinner.
S.
NIGHT ENGINEERING 
SMOKER TO BE 
HELD MARCH 21
The Night College of Engineer
ing is planning to hold the semi
annual smoker on March 21 in the 
Union. Several lines of inquiry 
for a real program have been sent 
out and we hope to have more 
detailed information for publication 
in the next issue of the Tartan.
Every night engineering student 
should attend this function of their 
college and help put the affair over. 
Reserve March 21 and then come 
out and show you are interested 
in the work. W. R. H.
PHI NU FRATERNITY 
PLANS ANNUAL DANCE
Phi Nil Fraternity has arranged 
to hold its annual dance at the 
Order of Independent . Americans 
Hall, Arch and Ohio streets, North 
Side, Pittsburgh, on Saturday, 
March 14.
A good orchestra has been se
cured, a lunch will be served, and 
an enjoyable evening is assured the 
members and-tlicir friends. Dancing 
will begin at 8:30 p. m.
Pictures Of Night 
Students For Thistle 
Now Being Taken
The .night, students who expqet to 
finish their courses 'this year arc 
requested to go to Room 2, Indus
tries Building  between 6:30 p. m. 
and 10:00 p. m. on either Tuesday, 
Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday 
of this week for, sittings for the 
Thistle.
The Night Thistle Staff is work
ing  ~.rd to make this years Thistle 
a success.
They hope to have every night 
student who will finish a course 
represented in the1 Thistle. If 
there is any doubt about your get
ting through your course, see the 
head of your department for the in
formation as to deficiencies and en
deavor to make them up so that 
there will be no difficulty when 
June comes.
Individual notices have been sent 
out to various night students^ who 
are possible candidates for gradua
tion, but if there are any night 
students who have been missed, 
these students arc also requested to 
report for their pictures. J. J. L.
Regulating Your Expenses 
Making your spending 
money go as far as possible 
requires careful and sys
tematic budgeting. A bank 
account will help you regu
late your expenditures and 
prove an inducement to saving, thus laying the founda
tion for your future financial independence. The Mellon 
National Bank will be glad 
to have an opportunity to 
make your acquaintance and advise .you on your prob
lem. Your account is wel
come, too, regardless of its size.
Mellon National BankPa.
Business and Professional Directory
An appreciation of the patronage of the students and graduates 
at Carnegie Tech and an expression of faith in the growth and 
.* prosperity of this wonderful institution.
Accountants
DMHOFF & COMPANY Certified Public Accountants 
2127 Farmers Building Atlantic 4713
 SHEPPARD & COMPANY 
Certified Public Accountants Oliver Building Atlantik: 1640
PHILIP II. STROHL and COMPANY Certified Public Accountant
142 Fourth Avenue Court 1117
WOLF & COMPANY 701-2 Commonwealth Building,Court 0181__________________Pittsburgh, Pa.
Acid. Proof Equipment
Advertising
GENERAL OUTDOOR ADVERTISING 
COMPANY 1610 Fifth Avenue  Mayflower 2240
Apartments
BELLEFIELD DWELLINGS 4400 Center 
Pittsburghs Outstanding Residential Ipartment Hotel  Batchelor Apartments 
and Rooms Mayflower 400G W. F. Shoemaker. Mgr. 
"Under Schenley Acres Management" . 
HAMPTON HALU 166 N. Dithridge Street  Schenley 4290
MARTINIQUE APARTMENTS 
1740 . Baum Blvd., Mayflower 302SThe Best In Efficiency Apartments 
WENDOVER APARTMENTS, r 5562 Hobart Street  Ha 7100 At' the Hobart Street Entrance to Schenley ParkOffers for May 1st leasing 315 room 
____suites  Moderate Rentals
Architects
COMPLIMENTS OF A FRlKNu
J. PHILLIPS DAVIS, 1920 1323 Fulton Bldg., Atlantic 7499
DAVID-<GOLDNER 5737 Holden Street, Mayflower 5448
HANNAH & STERLING,209 Ninth Street, Atlantic 3693
LINK, WEBER & BOWERS 
407 N. Craig Street, Mayflower 6533
HERBERT MEREDITH McCULLOUGHArchitect____Commonwealth Building Annex
M. NIRDLINGER, A. I. A., Registered in Pennsylvania,Empire Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CASIMIR J. PELLEGRINI, Registered Architect, 602 Penn Avenue Member A. I. A, Mo 9680
GEORGE M. ROWLAND, Registered in Pennsylvania, Bakewell Building, 417 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
FREDERIC I. MERRICK, Koppcrs Building, Atlantic2543
1000LOUIS STEVENS, Century Building, Atlantic0738
101WALTER II. STULEN, 
Market Street, Cpurt0816
HARRY VIEHMAN, Registered Architect 
Chamber of Commerce Building, Atlantic 8120
Attorneys
COMPLIMENTS OF AN ATTORNEY
507Asst
SUZANNE S. BEATTY,Union Trust Building, Atlantic 6419 City Solicitor, 341 Clty-County Bldg.
ALBERT G. BROWN,Grant Building. Atlantic4477
COMPLIMENTS OF A FRIEND Virgil N. Caputo
2005JAMES F. COYLE,Lavs- & Finance Bldg., Grant2242
501N. R. CRISS,Berger Building, Court2588
518CHAS. W. DAHLINGER, Fourth Avenue, Court1837
602ALEXANDER E. ECKLES, Bowman Building, Court4801
Automobile Service
AUTO WELDING & RADIATOR CO., 
3567 Bigelow Blvd., Mayflower 6347
Repairing and Recorlng Radiators Fender and Body Repairing, 
Electric Wi-lting, Aluminum & Acetylene
FIFTH AVENUE SERVICE GARAGE 5301 Fifth Avenue,Locomobile Service, General Auto Repairing, 24 Hour ServiceFender  and 
Body Repairing, Schenley 9105
JOSEPH LEWIS,3915 Forbes Street Schenley 0190
Auto PnirtingBody and Fender Work
NASH PITTSBURGH MOTORS CO., 430 N. Craig Street, Mayflower 6100 Nash Automobiles, Parts, Service, 
Used Cars
PITTSBURGH AUTO BODY COMPANY Body and Fender Repairs  Duco Refinishing,
1201 Washington Blvd., Hiland 3087
SAMSON MOTOR COMPANY Chrysler DistributorsGood. Used Cars 
4643 Baum Blvd., Mnyflower 2300Kcpnir and Service on nil Automobiles
B. F. STOUT,
DeSoto and Plymouth Distributor 5874 Baum Blvd., Montrose 1700_________Day and Night Service_______
Banks
BANK OF PITTSBURGH, National Association,226 Fourth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.
THE FIFTH AVENUE BANK OF 
PITTSBURGH,1349'and 1351 Fifth Avenue, Grant 1453
HIGHLAND NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH,6102 Penn Avenue, Montrose 12024% on Savings Accounts at the Highland 
THE KEYSTONE NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH,322 Fourth Avenue,____________Court 5521
Bookbinding Companies
BAER & WEIS 244 Boulevard of the Allies Court 1260 Bookbinding in Every DescriptionThesis 
_________ Binding a Specialty________
Broker Investments
Cleaners Dyer.
CRANDALL McKENZIE, HENDERSON, INC.,7025 Chaucer Street, Hiland 5390
OSWALD WERNER & SONS COMPANY, Cleaners and Dyers 5700 Bryant and St. ClairMain Officc 
Baum Blvd. and S. Highland East End Branch 
631 Penn Avenue-r-Downtown Store Montrose 2700___________
Concrete Pipe
CONCRETE PRODUCTS CO. OF AMERICA 
Diamond Bank Bldg. Packard BuildingPittsburgh, Pa. Philadelphia, Pa.
Plants:Pittsburgh, Pottstown and Chester, Pa.
Dentists
DR. N. E. ERWIN 
Health Dentist 202-A Clark Building Grant 10265
Liberty Avenue and Seventh Street Bridge Work, $5.00. Plate Work, 9.1 
Painless Gas Extraction, 50c Up.
 Electrical Appliances
H. CARTER COMPANY 
131 Fifth Avenue Atlantic 0913Sewing Machines, Radios, Electric Refrig
erators, Washing Machines and Vacuum 
CleanersSales and Service.
Florists
MR. FRANK AMBROSE. Floral Shop 714 Wylie Ave., Pittsburgh. Pa. Grant 9105
Gift Shops
C. REIZENSTEIN 
Pittsburgh3 Oldest Gift Shop With tho 
Newest Gift Thing!623 Liberty Avenue Atlantic 6070
MARGARET A. OWENS GIFT & PARTY SHOP,
145 Union Trust Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Beautiful Easter GiftsMonogram Stationery Jl.OO Bor UpInvitations Em___________bossed and Engraved.
Health Institute
YOUNGS SYSTEM. INC., First Floor, William Penn Hotel, Atlantic 0576
TREASURER
A CARNEGIE EXHIBIT 
An -exhibit at the Carnegie Insti
tution in Washington which is at
tracting much attention is one of a 
peculiar one-cell maring plant, 
Valonia, whose cells are so big 
they can be handled like eggs, and 
ill survive surgical' operations. 
Some of these cells have had tubes 
set into their walls, have healed up 
around the foreign body, and con
duct their normal lives regardless of 
the intrusion. This enables experi
ments to be performed showing 
the cells capacity as a conductor of 
electricity across its protoplasmic 
layer.
Other sections of. the exhibit 
show the explorations of outer 
space conducted at the Mt. Wilson 
Observatory, the modes . in which 
the suns energy is captured and 
used on earth, and the development 
of Maya and Pueblo civilizations.
>. s McG.
Typewriters
ALL MAKES AND COLORS 
Special Discount and Rental 
Rates to Students
American Typewriter Co.
415 FOURTH AVENUE 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Court 1019
Heating Company
RELIANCE HEATING COMPANY, 3610 Fifth Avenue,________Mayflower 9300
Mens' Tailors
FELIX NOTTI & CO.Suite 502, Fifth-Wood Bldg., Atlantic 1573 Imported ClothsIndividually Tnilorcd for CenturiesThe Mark of the _______. Gentleman
LOU HOUCK 413 Bessemer Building Grant 81:
Indents ordering their Spring Suits 
before April 1 will be given n 10% dis
count on regular prices of tailor-made suits. Prices $25.00, $30.00 anil $35.110.
JOHN SCHUESSLER 601 Rcnshaw Building Atlantic 7085Suits made to order from $20 and up Higher grades from $55 nnd $75
SCHUCK & CO.3112 Jenkins Arcade Atlantic 8763 Suits from $40 up to $G0  Latest nnd Newest Styles for Students
SCHWORTZ'S TAILOR SHOP 2000 Wylie Avenue Atlantic 9616This Shop Scores again with an offer ti Clean and Press Men's Suits or Overcoats for 50 cents. Mens Suits Pressed, 25 cents
Millinery Business
For Your Spring Hat INEZ MILLINERY 
Schenley Apnrtments________Mayflower 4444
Piano Tuning
A. J. BRAUN 
823 Cherokee Street Mayflower______Tuning and Repairing Pianos
Restaurants
VALENTINO RESTAURANT 605 Grant Street Grant 9628Around the corner from Wm. Penn Hotel Strictly Italian Cuisine  Private Dining Rooms  Special Students Offer _____85 Cent Dinner At All Times.
Seeds
Sheet Metal Work
JAMES J. MARTIN,3911 Forbes Street, Mayflower 4534
Roofing, Spouting and Jobbing a Specialty
Sheet Metal Products
EAST END SHEET METAL COMPANY. 5623 Eva Street, Montrose 7017Cornices, Skylights, Metal Roofing, ________Ventilators, Roof Repairing
Sheet & Iron Products
McKEE-OLIVER, INC., ,1326 West Carson St,___________Court 4920
Show Cards
SMITTY SIGN STUDIO Signs and Show Cards 
Any Kind  Any Where  Any Time 
411 Fourth Avenue_______________Court 0132
Singimg
GEORGE D. HERWIG,"Teacher of Singing"
American and European Experience Under Beat Masters
Studio, 504 Reymer Bldg., 237 Fifth Ave. Atlantic 3414_____Res. Mayflower 9$68
Surveyors
McCULLY ENGINEERING CO.Civil and Mining Engineers 
Webster ninnati, Manager 709 Berger Building_____________Court 4573
Tailoring
PAULSON TAILORING COMPANY 254 Paulson Avenue Emerson 9709. CLEANING AND TAILORING
Tile
PITTSBURGH MANTEL & TILE CO., 143 Enterprise Street, Hiland 2118
Tilo Work of Every Description
Edward E. McDonald, Vice Pres
ident of the Night College <of In
dustries, is the*Treasurcr of the 
Night Student Council. He is reg
istered in the Industrial Arts 
Course, and has, like the other 
officers of the Night Student Coun
cil, spent a long time on campus.
ARE YOU GOING TO 
THE ARTS BALL?
You bet I am: wouldnt miss it 
for the world. That, dear people, 
is the most, popular question on 
the. Fine Arts Campus. Every
body is in a state of great excite
ment about the coining affair, 
which, without doubt, is the big
gest and most colorful event on 
the Carnegie Tech Campus.
The interest shown by the Night 
Arts is indeed gratifying and that 
a large number will attend is a 
foregone conclusion. Last week 
marked the beginning of an inten
sive campaign in which ' every 
night student is .to be approached. 
'In order to make it possible for 
as large a number as possible to 
attend, the tickets are being sold 
oil the installment plan. Take a 
tip, however, from one who knows, 
dont wait for the salesman to see 
you; go after him yourself so that 
you will be sure of a ticket.
Elsewhere on the pages of the 
Tartan more news regarding this 
event is published. . Read and get 
the news so that you will know 
what its all about. Reserve April 
10 now, and plan to attend. S.
College Jewelry Seal Stationery PennantsC. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students Supplies
INTO THE STRETCH
I his title may be rccognizcd as 
a phrase used in sports and so it 
is, but it can also be pressed into 
service in- other lines. Our. use 
refers to the time remaining betweeen- now and the end of the 
year, about four weeks, in which to 
erase those bad marks ' (if any) 
that were acquired in the first 
semester, thus making the year 
more or less successful, mostly 
moreThanks Andy.
There is also a lull in night 
sofcial activities which will enable 
the erring students (if any) to ap
ply .themselves to their studies. 
Each night college has one more 
social function on its calendar. The 
Engineers have a smoker on March 
21, the Industries have a smoker 
on March 28, and the Arts a dance 
in April. There arc only a few 
evenings between now and the end 
of the year that may be called "off 
evenings.* There will be no class
es on April 2 or 3Easter recess. 
April 24 is exhibition night, when 
students like to go around and see 
what the other fellows do, or re
main in class to show the unsus
pecting public how its done.
The yearly fracas ends on May 
2, after which the victor and van
quished get together for one big 
night of hilarity, May 8, when the 
Night Student, Councils InterNight Dance is held.
G.
MORTAR BOARD PLANS
(Continued from Page One) 
eligible for Mortar. Board ;(nd will 
be considered as suggestions . indica
tive of campus opinion.
Ballot boxes will be .placdd irt 
Margaret Morrison and Art School 
on Wednesday and Thursday from 
11:30 to 12:30.
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust .
OFFICERS
C. B. AYLESWORTH...._Vice Pros.
R. J. MILLER.................Vico Pres.
C. W. EHNI.........Asst. Vice Pres.
F. W. COTTON-.....-Asst. Vice Pres.
O. C. YOUNG.................A.Rst. Trcns.
ADAM ROSCOE.........- .Asst. Sec.
ADVISORY BOARD
C. B. Aylcsworth 
J nines B. Clark 
John Dlmling
Barney Dreyfus*
J. Rogers Flannery
L. H. Gcthoofor 
C. II. Kerr
J.,0. Miller
R. J. Miller
John G. Pew
A. B. Sheets
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
why we spend $2,000,000
1
to put Camel cigarettes 
in the new HvMIDOR Pack
y* have been in the tobacco business a long 
time down here at. Winston-Salem and /we take 
a lot of pride in the quality of the cigarettes we 
make.
While we have spent a good many million 
dollars advertising Camels, weve always held 
to the old fashioned idea that the thing that 
really counts is what we put into our cigarette 
and not what we say abou t it. 
If we know anything about'tobacco, and we 
think we do, Camels contain the choicestTurkish and the mellowest, ripest domestic leaves 
that money can buy.
In fact we have every reason to be proud of 
the quality of Camels as they come from the 
factory, but the remark of an old friend of ours 
from Denver some time dgo emphasized a point 
that has been the problem of the cigarette 
industry for years.
As he inhaled the smoke from a Camel we 
gave him in our offices one morning, he sighed 
with very evident enjoyment and then asked 
jokingly, What is this, a special blend re
served for Camel executives?
Certainly not, we told him. This package 
of Camels was bought at the corner store this 
morning.
Well, he said, Ive been a dyed in the wool 
Camel smoker for a good many years, but upon 
my soul I never got a cigarette as good as this in 
Denver. If you would give the rest of the world 
the kind of Camels you sell here in WinstonSalem, }'ou ought to have all the cigarette busi
ness there is.
JLHAT statement simply em
phasized again the cigarette 
industrys most important 
problem. Tlie more we 
thought about it, the surer 
we were that he was dead 
right, and that somehow, 
something must be done.
Denver ivasnt getting a fair 
break. Neither in fact was 
any other town. The only peo
ple who really knew how good 
Camels could be,were the folks 
right here in Winston-Salem.
That was due to a factor no 
cigarette manufacturer had 
ever been able to control.
Naturally there is no differ
ence whatever in the quality
of the tobacco in Camels, whether you buy 
them in Winston-Salem, Denver or Timbucloo. But up to now there has been n very real 
difference in the condition of the cigarettes by 
the time they reached the smoker.
The flavor and mildness of fine tobacco 
depend upon the retention of its natural, not 
added, moisture contcnt which is prime at 
about ten per ccnt.
In spite of our great pains always to make 
sure Camels left the factory with just the right 
amoun t of natural mois ture, no cigarette pack
age had ever yet been designed that could pre
vent that precious moisture from drying ouf.
TClERE arc three things about a cigarette that 
can sting the tongue and unkindly burn the 
throat.
(1) Cheap tobaccos.
(2) Varticles of peppery dust left in the 
tobacco because of inefficient clean
ing methods.
(3) A parched dry condition of the to
bacco due to loss of natural moisture 
by overheating or evaporation.
Always certain of the quality of our tobaccos 
we had already made Camel a dustless cig
arette by the use of a specially designed vacuum 
cleaning apparatus exclusive with our factory.
Now, if we could perfect a package that would 
actually act as a humidor and retain the natu
ral moisture content, then Yuma, Arizona, 
could enjoy Camels as much as we do here at 
Winston-Salem.
We knew what we wanted. 
We tried many things. We 
asked the Pittsburgh Testing 
Laboratory to help us.
After many experiments and 
humidity tests covering all 
methods of packing cigarettes 
came the detailed report of 
which this is the net:
(A) No existing cigarette pack
age, including those wrapped 
in glassine paper or ordinary 
cellophane, gives anything like 
adequate protection against 
evaporation.
(B) All cigarettes so packed 
tend to dry out rapidly from 
the day they arc released from 
the factory,
(C) Only a xvu ter proof mate
rial ivith a specially devised
air-tight seal could give the desired protection. 
(/>) This measure, while costly, could be relied 
on to keep Camels in prime condition for at 
least three months in any climate.
If you have a technical bent:, the graph below 
made by tho Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory 
will show you the exact results of their ex
haustive study.
25 BAY CHART OF CKiAItUTTE MOISTURE I.09S< . . * ;. i  , \AVeru/(t SO pakuf/rH H

HvVrajipod Package 
Giuli lie Wrapped Raekagc 
Regular Cellophane 
Wrapped Package
Camel Humidor Pack 
Moliture proof Cello- pbittteSealed AirTinht 
PAYS
^__
___io_____ao___2
Pittburgli Testing- Laboratory Rejiort N9l50473-Jai?.iyl
Pittsburgh. Tcstinff La.borat.ory chart abovc graphically aliows you that only Lhc Carnei Ilumidor Pack dclivcra 
cigarcttcs Lo you in primo condition
JLOU may be sure we gave this report a lot of 
careful study. We checked it and re-checked it 
and then we went ahead. We tried this device 
and that. At last we met success. The air-tight 
wrapping involved the designing of special 
processes, special machines.
That costs a lot of money, more than $2,000,- 
000 the first year, but after you have tried 
Camels packed this modern new way we aro 
sure you will agree it is a fine investment.
For some time now every Camel that has left 
our factory has gone out in this liew Humidor 
Pack.
We have said nothing about it until now, to 
make sure your dealer would be able to supply 
you when the good news came out.
Camel smokers of course have already dis
covered that their favorite cigarette is better 
and milder now than ever before.
If you arent a Camel smoker, try them just 
to sec what a difference there really is between 
harsh, dried out tobacco and a properly con
ditioned cigarette.
You can feel the difference, you can. hear the 
difference and you ccrtainly can taste the dif
ference.
Of course were prejudiced.
We always have believed that Camel is tho 
worlds best cigarcttc.
Now ive know it.
Just treat yourself to Camels in the new 
Humidor Pack and see if you dont agree.
II. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY 
' Winston-Salem., N. C,

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1931.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 
AFTER OFFICE HOURS CALLEditor-In-Chief ........-............ Sehonlcy 0730Bunlnem) Mrtnngor ..................... Schenlcy 921 J.
MnnnginK Editor ................-........... Hazel 1000plnld ............................................... Sehonlcy 2380
Publlnhod onco every week during tho college yonr by undergraduate;) of CnrnoKie Inntltuto of. Technology. Entored In tho Plttoburgh Pont Ofllco *tn nocond-dnnn mutter.
THE STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
BUSINESS EDITORMANAGING EDITORPLAID EDITOR-----------
NEWS EDITOR-----------
WOMEN'S EDITOR
_______Jolin J, Boyle
__David H. E. Center
___Nancy C. Newman
Edward E. McDonald
__________Isabel Levin
Borgerding
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Harry Wall Doris Mather
ALUMNI
Editor------_
Assistant 
........Ida Campbell
...Mary Townsend
JUNIOR EDITORS
V. McBridc Gertrude NovakMary Hauser 
Nancy SloanEdward Steiner 
Harry Kolb
CONTRIBUTOR
Madeleine Half
BUSINESS
T . ,, ( William GoslingJunior Managers-j pau|Wnc
fR. E. Campbell
Assistants....
fR. E. Campbell _< J. Kronenburg 
I I. Fritz
CIRCULATION STAFF
Manager.........-------.R. E. Campbell
Assistant Manager___Robert Frank
STAFFJ. M.. Averbach W. Finglass
C. Chadwick -A. Prycc-JonesJ. S. Sharrah
___..Grce L.
ATHLETICS
Editor......___John Alms
I-I. Howcr J. Bronson 
M. Michaclson 
:____Kay PalenWomen's Editor_
PLAID STAFF 
J, S. Geyer E. E. McGannon
J. H. Sansonetti A. J. Clough, Jr.
SECRETARIAL STAFF 
F. Sample P. Goldberg
E. LilJcy D. Yingling
Sylvia Lyon 
REPORTERS
R. Grant 
D. Allison 
J. Halpcrn 
R. Phillips 
H. Steinberg
G. Anderson 
J. Minottc
H. Maxwell 
J. Gindcr
M. Dougherty
B. PrcIIcr 
J. Ladd
C. Lcighou 
B. Bates 
L. Conlin 
R. Saxton 
J. Ritzel
J. Lowes 
Myers
Conference Results
The Mid-West Student Conference, which concluded its 
sessions last vSaturday afternoon, discussed and passed resolutions 
on several matters which might directly concern Carnegie. Per
haps, the most important topic considered was that concerning 
year-books. From the discussion it was evident that the most 
effective plan to put the year-book on a paying basis was to have 
the fee collected at the time of registration. This plan enables 
the editors to judge properly the amount of their income and to 
publish a book in financial accordance with their sales. The hit 
and miss system which is employed at Carnegie at the present 
time, and not inefficient management, is the reason why the 
Thistle has failed financially-the last two years. A decrease in 
sales, due to lfick of student interest, has placed the editors in 
a precarious position and has hampered their ideas and ability in, 
an attempt to produce a good book.
'The plan .of' adding/th.c year-book subscription fee to the 
registration fee is' sound and sensible, and the Tar.tan urges 
Council and the Administration to*investigate it without delay.
The question of whether discipline should be handled by 
the Administration, by the student governing body or by both 
was also discussed. The Tartan is of the opinion that the Ad
ministration should make the final decision in all disciplinary 
matters, but we believe .that Student Council should not be en
tirely neglected as was done last semester.after th student riots. 
If a student governing body is to survive it should be respected, 
and not merely used as a figurehead by the Administration.
From the FenceDr. Ross Discusses Governmental
Stabilization of Commodity Prices
In the Crescent 
at Cornell
... as in 42 other 
leading colleges, 
there is one favorite 
smoking tobacco
E
UNIUOOTM walking across cam
pus to a lab in Sibley___arts
students gathered on the porch of 
Goldwin Smitli... lawyers on the 
steps of Boardman. Not much time 
between classes ... but enough for a pull on a pipe of go6d old Edgeworthi
Cornell men know their smok
ing tobacco. And theyre not alone 
in their choice. Harvard, Yale, 
Illinois, Michigan, Stanford, Dart
mouth, Bowdoinall report Edgeworth far in the lead. In 42 out of 
64 leading colleges and universities 
Edgeworth is the favorite* pipe 
tobacco.
Cool, slow-burning hurleys give 
this smoke the character that col
lege men like. Try a tin of Edgeworth yourselfpack it into your 
pipe, light up, and taste tho rich 
natural savor of fine burloys, en
hanced by Edgeworths distinctive 
clovonth process.
At all tobacco stores15)i tho 
tin. Or, for generous freo sample, 
write to Lrus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 
82d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Hdgoworth io n blond 
lino old burloys, 
Mthi t<i natural wivor 
>nhancod by EdsoTrorthn distinctive 
Seventh procoss. 
Buy Edgoworth any
where in two forms 
 "Ready-Rubbed " 
nnd Plug Slice.''All 
, Bises, 15{ pocket 
package to pound 
humidor tin.
SAX PLAYER 
Desires Orchestra Job.
Can Furnish Refercnccs. 
BOX 206, C. I. T.
Howdy, You All 1
While eolored lights flickered over 
the darkened ballroom oi the Wil
liam Penn Friday  night, Dan 
Gregorys orchestra sounded too 
good to be true, even if nobody had 
heard of them before. The "InterLodge Formal of 1931 proved satis
fying to the extreme, with the genu
ine Morocco (?) leather programs 
and the genuine ostrich (?) feather 
fans as favors. (At least, they might 
have been baby ostrichcs.) Every
body had a good time, and "every
body" here means quite a mob,
The banners adorning the balcony 
lent the fraternity touch to the party, 
although it might have been well to 
use Pitt's idea of having the boys 
wear their fraternity colors in rib
bons across their shirt fronts. That 
would give an ambassador effect, but 
some of us couldnt possibly be mis
taken for ambassadors.
Due to the large crowd the "truck; 
drivers were. in tlteir glory. Bud 
Murray, Johnny Sabol, Charlie Fisher, 
Jerry Wise, Ed. McCloskcy, Joe 
Chamberlain, and some of the other 
Senior Electricals had circles under 
their eyes from going to the Interfraternity after an all-day inspection 
trip to Sharon, Pa. Bill Gealing want 
ed to advertise his haberdashery, as 
he wore his bow tie with the label 
showing.
The usual WilliaVn Penn custom of 
having the hired help peek 
through various doors was maintain
ed. The S. A. E. banner must have 
been somebodys blanket from the 
size of it. It served as a back
ground , for the orchestra. The pret
tiest banner there didnt have a name 
on'it. Were too modest to* tell which 
one it was. The management had a 
tough time clearing the place after 
the dance. The "last elevator' must 
have gonfc down at least five times.. 
The favors were given out at the 
door, in order to avoid a repetition 
tff the famous "Inter-fraternity 
Favor Rush of 1929, the nearest ap
proach Carnegie ever had to a flag 
/ush.
So much for the Inter-fraternity of 
1931. Nice work, Bill.
Cwens open Ihe Late Winter tea 
dance . season tomorrow afternoon 
with a Circus tea dance. The tea 
dances in the Union have long seem
ed like .circuses, with all the stags 
surrounding the floor and watching 
the  show, but Ihe Cwens arc Ihe 
first to . so name them. The Grand 
Parade zvill start at 4:30, ladies and 
gentlemen. Step right ifp and sec 
Emma, the fat girl, dancc through 
two whole numbers with Fred Kissel, 
the wall-.flower's delight.
The Arts Ball seems a-certainty, 
after several years' absence. The 
decorations arc -to  be- Moorish, ac
cording to Will Worlands prize win
ning design. This year, as previously, 
the dancc will be entirely closed, 
meaning that none but Arts School 
students .will be there, unless some 
Engineer masquerades as a fountain, 
or a bench.
Famous Words by Famous Profs:
Take Viour Seals" (Disgustedly) 
"Sunny Jim" Stoker.
'Til Tuesday
(Continued from Page One) 
stage. We were supposed to have 
already learned a sad lesson from 
this highly protective tariff. Tax
ing our neighbors when they come 
with something to sell is a game at 
which two or even two dozen men 
can play. We saw Canada imme
diately . clap a high tariff on a 
number of our commodities. France 
also retaliated and even . some 
South American doOrS that ha'd 
been darkened by none other than 
Mr. Hoover on* his good- will tour 
of these countries slammed in the 
faces of our dricd-fruit salesmen 
from southern California.
In brief, the Smoot-Hawlcy. Tar
iff reduced the number of our cus
tomers and increased the number 
of. enemies in all parts of the 
world^ more rapidly than any meas
ure yet devised. It was thought 
to have been the last word in 
bad business manners, but now it 
appears to have 4)ccn only a .-be
ginning if.wc may judge from the 
recent announcement made by the 
Farm Board when delegates from 
24 European nations met in Paris, 
February 23, to solve the Euro
pean grain crisis. _
Europe Lacks Market
The purpose of this so-called 
Grain Conference was the adoption 
of a plan for the 'stabilization of 
wheat prices in tlv-e European 
market so as to give the eastern 
European wheat farmer a chance 
to disp'bse of his crop. He is even 
worse off than our own Western 
farmer.
Agricultural lands ''of eastern 
Europe, especially- in Rumania, 
Yugoslavia, Bulgaria;' and Hungary, 
arc plastered with mortgages that 
represent an estimated indebted
ness of $1,382,000,000. Interest rates 
run as high as 35 per cent. More
over, it i's (to be remembered that 
these farmers have 110 Farm Board 
to lift the depressing weight ,of 
surplus wheat from the market. In 
short, these countries must find a 
remunerative market for their 
wheat if they arc tp regain Hlicir 
financial footing..
By February 27 the delegates 
from these 24 nations had spent 
three days in an unsuccessful cf-.
fort to establish a wheat market 
for eastern European crops. Prog
ress was slow. The . exchange of 
views is reported to have resem
bled the discussion at the Tower 
of Babel. Each nations cherished 
hope of economic self-sufficiency 
impeded the, conference. At this 
juncture when tempers .were sorely 
ruffled and everyone badly  dis
gruntled, our own Farm. Board 
made its first appearance on the 
international stage. In truly dra
matic fashion it announced that we 
would forthwith dump 35,000,000 
bushels of grain on the European 
market.
Farm- Board Causes Strife 
The angry storm of abuse ac
corded this piece of news indicate^ 
that cither the Europeans are over
sensitive or our Farm* Board is 
terribly awkward. In fact, to some 
observers the Farm Board appears 
to be a follow-up organization that 
heaps coals on heads already made 
hot by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff.
The more one thinks1 of it, the 
more preposterous the whole thing 
seems. When the Europeans are 
swamped with grain and get to
gether to find a way out, the Farm 
Board calmly announces that it 
will literally engulf them by dump
ing three times as much wheat on 
them as the Russians have dumped 
on the European market in the 
last month.
Economic Conflict Grows 
If we consider Russia a menace 
for her dumping proclivities, what 
must Europeans think of us? We 
not only deprive them of their 
American market by means of 
high tariff, but also dump wheat 
on the'm in a way .that makes 
Russia look like an amateur. If 
we callcd Russia names, what may 
we expect from these 24 nations 
whose plans we. deliberately upset? 
Bitter economic conflict on clear 
cut lines is likely to grow rather 
than diminish as governments in
tervene to' save their sick indus
tries by such schemes of stabiliza
tion. With the presence of other, 
aggravating factors, these might at 
a critical juncture be enough to 
make the difference between peace 
and war.
RESEARCH STAFF
(Continued from Page One)
'! (5) The mechanism of combus
tion of solid fuels.
(6) The signlficance"6f measure
ments of the true density of coal 
and' coke. 1 
The studies listed above will all
be made 011 tjfpical coking coal 
obtained from the Pittsburgh seam. 
The coal which has been selected 
is one used (at the Clairton Coke 
Ovens Works of the Carnegie 
Steel Company, and the studies will 
include- the coal obtained and as 
separated into its recognizable, phy 
sical constiticnts.
TECII BOUND STUDIO BINDINGS
Let us bind your Thesis Papers, Magazines, Dance Programs, ctc. 
We teach Hand Bookbinding, Flexible Leather Work, the making 
of Writing Sets, Desk Sets, Ring Binders and many other useful articles. Evening lessons.
No. Order Too Small or Too Big For Us.
REESE C. DAVID
119 BOUQUET STREET 
Instructor in Bookbinding a Tech 1923-30
?
Which is wider, the gate or the 
opening? Maybe your eyes 
fooled you that time.
YOUR EYES MAY FOOL YOU
BUT
your taste tells the Truth!
MILDER...and 
BETTER TASTE
RW CESCA DINNOcc G 'cBM VL.X,,L Co.
Printing News
The Department ..of Printing has 
been asked to conduct a survey of 
the schools and departments of 
printing in the United States and 
Canada. A similar survey was un
dertaken last-year at the request 
of 'the Department of Education of 
the United Typothetae of America, 
and returns were received from 
mord than fivvc hundred institutions 
conducting courses in printing ; and 
related subjects. - The data will be 
assembled and organized by the
junior class in Survey of the Print
ing Industry, and will be presented 
by Professor Gustafspn at the
Tenth Annual Conference on
Printing Education to be held in 
New York City, June 22-25.
Professor Gustafson has been 
ppointcd a member of the
advisofy committee which is plan
ning the Graphic Arts exhibit for 
the proposed Museum of Science 
and Industry in Chicago. This 
museum will be located in Jack
son Park, on the site of the Fine 
Arts Building erected for, the ex
position of 1893, and will be the 
first great industrial museum in 
the United States. x Mr. Julius 
Rosenwald has donated $4,000,000 
to the project and a bond issue of 
$5,000,000 has been floated for the 
building. Mr. Waldcmar Kaempffert, formerly editor of the Scien
tific American and Popular Science 
Monthly, has been appointed di
rector of the institution.
NEW PRESIDENT
(Continued from Page One) 
portance is laid upon marks be
cause there exists a tendency to 
gain the grade at any cost. ."
Resolution V. The representa
tives present will make a formal 
gesture before their faculties in or
der to stimulate changes in this 
present-day -grading 'system which 
exaggerates s the value of actual 
marks, rather than achievements.
Resolution VI. That this con
ference go on record as being in 
favor of a student assessment paid
5806 Penn Ave.
Moxl to INJIGHT THEAtfE
STUDENTS HAVEN 
ATMOSPHERE 
GOOD FOOD 
Open Friday, Saturday and 
Dance Nites Till 2 A. M.
LEON MOISSEIFT
(Continued from Page One) 
for the Chicagos World Fair Ex
position of -1933.
Mr. Moisseiff is a member of the 
American Society of Civil Engin
eers, the American Society for 
Testing Materials, the American 
Railway Engineering Association, 
and is chairman of the Structural 
Steel Welding Committee of the 
American Welding Society. 
This lecture will be free to the 
public, and all, students interested 
in the subject are invited to attend.
Mr. Moisseiff is a member of the 
American Society of Civil -Engi
neers, the American Society Aor 
Testing Materials, the American 
Railway Engineering Association, 
and is chairman of the Structural 
Steel Welding Committee of the 
American Welding Society.
The lecture will be free to the 
public, and all students interested 
in the subject are invited to attend.
with registration fee to gp to the 
support of the student publications 
and to provide distribution of cop
ies of such publications.
THOMAS GRAHAM
(Continued from Page One) 
ing. Saturday afternoon Would be 
spent in athlctic contests; the eve
ning would find the group sur
rounding a camp fire listening to 
stories. On Sunday morning, a 
prominent speaker would deliver a 
short talk, and in the afternoon 
the return trip to school would be 
made. There would be no charge 
for freshmen, and it is even hoped 
that blankets could be provided.
UNIVERSITY
RESTAURANT
At 4605 Forbes ,St., near Craig St.
Lunches served from 
11 A. M. to 9 P. M. 
Dinners- served from 
5 P. M. to 9 p. m. 
Up-to-Date Equipment 
Home Cooking 
Open Day and Night
STUDENTS
ACCOUNTS WELCOME
at
Forbes National Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLANDPITTSBURGH
OFFICERS
RICHARD K. MELLON..___________THOS. H. McCANDLESS__________HARRY S. BROWN________________
MISS N. C. FITZPATRICK...........J. NEVIN GARBER.---------------------J.* NEVIN GARBER................................PAUL C. EDMUNDSON......................
...Assistant Cashier -.Assistant Cashier
THOMAS S. BAKER President Carnegie Institute of Technology
JOHN G. BOWMAN Chancellor Univsity of Pittsburgh
ELMER E. COL* President National Union  Fire Insurance Company 
A. REX FLINN President Booth & Flinn Company
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
HERBERT A. MAY Vice President Union Drawn Steel Company 
THOMAS H. McCANDLESS Vico President and Cashier 
RICHARD K. MELLON President; Director 
Mellon National BankWILLIAM S. MOORHEAD Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS Real Estate
ALAN M. SCA1FE Vico President Wm. B. Seaife ; & Sons Compnny 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN ResearchDirector Mellon Institute of Industrial
TIMKEN is
a Basic Principle of 
Modem 
Machine Design
The use of Timken Tapered Roller Bearings is a basic 
principle in the design of all types of industrial machin
ery, and student engineers will find it well worth while 
to study their possibilities in conjunction with the 
modern anti-friction necessities which they are required 
to meet.
Timken-Bearings provide the highest possible degree of 
anti-friction efficiency ... but more than that, they 
furnish complete protection against each and every type 
of load which may be encounteredradial loads, thrust 
loads or both together in any combination.
This all-load ability is found in the basic design of the 
Timken Bearing, through the exclusive combination of 
Timken tapered construction, Timken positively aligned 
rolls and Timken-made steel.
In future years, machine operating speeds will be higher, 
loads will be heavier and the necessity for accuracy even 
more exacting than it is now, but engineers who know 
their Timkens will be able to comply with all production 
demands at the lowest possible cost. The Timken Roller 
Bearing Company, Canton, Ohio.
ROLLER OFPINGMA
