Men most be at liberty, .to. 
>ey in'print: whatever they 
have w-mind to e^provided it wpingSjHQ oiie.i 
 _iCHASI.E8'A. DANArkejie Partati
VOL. 30. NO. 8-CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF.TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH PA.TUESDAY;'NOVEMBER 19, 1935
Margaret Morrison 
Sorority Rushing 
 E n d s. T o m o r r o w:
Concluding Supper Held 
Silenee Period Began 
At Midnight Sunday
Sorority Leaders 
Are Con f i d ent
3 Sororities Pledged. Total 
Of 58 New Members In 
1934-35 Season
Rushing season in Margaret Mor
rison College is brought to a close 
tomorrow at 4:30. The actual pe
riod of rushing ended with each 
sorority holding e supper last Sun
day night. The silence period be
gan ihen at midnight.
Leading girls of the three sororities expressed a belief that rushing this year would have successful results. Said one girl, Despite (be Tact that there has been an apparent decrease in the pledges to the Fine Arts sororities this year, I believe that Margaret Morrison rushing will be just as successful as il was last year. Fine Arts orltles pledged only 36 new n bers this season as compared with 49 _ the season of 1934-35.Last year the Margaret Morrison sororities pledged a total of 58 girls. Kappa Phi Delta pledged 20 members. Alpha Thetft pledged 23, and Gamma Phi Sigma pledged 15. Both Alpha Theta Sigma, And Gamma Phi lgma were officially recognized' last year, after being recommended by the Inter- sorority Council and voted In by. the Student Council.- Kappa Phi Delta was officially recognized January 30. 1934.The Margaret Morrison sororities como under the official head of the lolereororlty Council r well as the 'Pine Arts , sororities. The prealAll three sororitleB held their for- mals In the private room- of the Hotel Schenley. They were limited to a rushing expense ' budget
Tartan Ranks 
Second, Third 
In C o n test
Temple, W. & J. Capture 
First Place Honors 
In Paper Ratings
epecthely,- in ' the Intercollegiate Newspaper Association of Middle Atlantic States rating announced : Saturday. Temple University. Neva with first place awards in the. oewa and advertising divisions dominated the field of. 36 college papers.
. Ptoes were awarded _ . three ! idsnews, editorials and adver- ; Using. The Carnegie Tech Tartan i the only. Pittsburgh district | Publication besides the Washing*; n. and Jefferson paper' to figurei iMhe awards.-' ; '. The complete list of winners as announced by Charles X Wright, Dewly.eiected executive secretary,vere:
NewsTemple University News, nrst; Gettysburg College Gettys- urgian, second;. Carnegie Tartan George Washington University Hatchet, tied for third.EditorialsWashington and Jef- ,r60n Red and Black, first; Tem- le University News, second; eorgo Washington ' University Mchet, third.
AdvertisingTemple University *e*s, first; Carnegie Tartan, sec- "e Bucknell University , third.Buckneliiai
Cosmopolitan Club 
Meets oiji Saturday
foreign Students Compose 
Membership of Group
Cosmopolitan Club will hold Its Si meeting of the-year this Sat* -rfiay at the home of Mr! and Mrs. r.y* Davis, 5604 Forbes Street-at * P. m. Representatives of the Mpus organizations interested in 
ill K0rk done by .the group.' be present. . Dean A. W. Tar* fl Dean Mary W. Green have 
n?k en invited. ' ,.1iitle Cosmopolitan Club was il^rly known as the Intercpllegi? ^Cosmopolitan - Club, and its='iw, , wer*  atudenta... .from iSn?Bylvan,BCollege ;.for. Women,' PiHifsne University, University of ^^uret;:Mouht-*Cercy. Academy,
Mystery Flay 
With All Girl 
Cast Opens
Ladies-in-Waiting Is 
' Years Second Major 
PresentatibnProfessor Wallace 
DirectsProduction
Play to Run for One Week; 
Tickets Distributed By 
Registrars Office
"Ladles-In-Waltlng, a three acl 
mystery ' play by Cyril Campion 
will open in the Little Theater of 
the College of Fine Arts on: Novem
ber 20. The second major produc 
tion of the year Is an all-womens 
play under the direction of Prof. 
Chester M. Wallace. .
Mary Louise tMehler and Tod 
Egli are double cast as Una Ver
ity, the ingenue about whom the 
mystery is centered.
The action of this play takes 
place In the English country home 
of Evelyn Spate, played by Mary 
Clark Hubley and Elizabeth 
Moore, where a group of women 
are gathered in honor of the com
ing marriage of ' Una'. From the 
rising of the first curtain the play 
Is packed with the baffling .mys
teries of missing pearls, a slashed 
wedding. gown, an attempted mur
der, and even suicide. Janet 
Gemer, a psychic, played by . Bar
bara Kocyan .and Henrietta'Cohen,
Mospptfe^r'cdnsityi;.gH^lnt 
'franc.ee. Eugenia kehr. and Thel
ma ; Schnee -, - are . double cast as Pamela' Dark, a detective whd only muddles, the plot further.Other ' members of . the cast' Include Jane Witmer and Margaret Herd as Dora Lester, Amalia Rose
will be played by Cornelia Funk* houser and Jane Ferguson. Emma Louise Suess, Margot Dee/ Georgle Etta Taylor and Mary Blggert are also in the cast.Tickets were ready for distribution from the registrar's office on November .16.
Gwens Sponger 
Twin Sister Tea 
For Transfers
Cwens. will /hold .a. tea in the. Margaret Morrison Recreation .hall tomorrow for th Twin Sisters." Sue Kyak and . Margaret Kleffer
proved very, successful. Transfer students from other colleges have, as their twin sisters, sophomores, aid . them to bccome acquainted with campus activities.________
Carnegie Day 
Is Celebrated 
Next Monday
C)asse6 - Suspended That 
. Entire Student Body 
May Attend 
PROGRAM GIVEN 
AT MUSIC HALL
Dr. C. Watkins Presides; 
Scottish Airs Played 
By Kiltie Bund
All .classes. will be suspended 
next Monday from 10:30 to 1:30 in 
celebration of the one hundredth, 
birthday of Andrew Carnegie, 
founder of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. A procession In
cluding the Executive Board, fac
ulty, and sludento will leave the campus for Carnegie. Music Hall promptly at 10:45.The Band and R. O. T. meet on the road in front of Industries Hall, the Executive Board at Dr. Guilds Office, 100 Industries Hall; Student Council In 104, Industries Hall; Womei Mens Glee. Clubs, Room 1 dustrles Hall; scholarship holddents; Juniors, first floor corridor. Industries Hail, roar of seniors; sophomores, second floor corridor, Industries Hall, west -end, nearest Carnegie Library; freshmen, see-* ond floor corridor. Industries Hall,, rear of sophomores. '
The Carnegie Day. program will be broadcast over station KDKA from the Car- negle MusicHall. It Is requested that all- students be at the Music Hall' before 11 oclock so that their arrival , will not Interfere with the broadcast. .
not iat the MoeJc Hall; The Executive Board and.Student - Council will assemble at'the rear of .the stage, the'faculty, in the west end of the foyer, while the band, ft. O. T. C., scholarship holders, graduate students, and- the four classes will
signs. Alumni will join the procession at the Music Hall. .Dr. Charles Watkins, acting president, will preside at the e
of the Founder," and an address, by Samuel Harden Church, chalr- lan of the Board of Trustees of the Carnegie Institute of Technology; Scottish airs, by the Kiltie
Douglass S. Freeman, LL. D., wln- of the 1935 .Pulitzer..Prize, for; his biography, 'Robert E. Lee;. "Overture , of,Euryanthe,".t<j ,be
ider the direction of Professor J. Vick OBrien* awards' of fraternities, sororities, - and dormitory scholarship trouphles; and the singing ot Auld Lang .Syne,1 by the audience. An organ postlude, an allegTO from Wldor's Fifth Symphony, played by Clyde Neville English 36. will'complete, the exercises In the hall.
Dr. Baker Improves Following Operation
Tech, was 'operated thyroid last' Wednesday. Uls * \ doctors say that: the'-'operk*'] tlon-was very successful, and i promise that he.-wlU Jiave better health. ' ' )In a letter to Dr.- V/atcs i last week-, Dr. Baker.'said h > plans to stay in Baltimore or-: In Perryman, Maryland; for |. 6ome time, but intends, to j come to Pittsburgh in the v
Thanksgiving 
Dinner Served
Christian Association 6 
Host to Students
Council Acts 
On Delinquent 
Thistle Bills
Trouble. Is Brewing For 
Delinquent Campus 
Organizations . 
UNPAID ACCOUNTS 
AMOUNT TO $730
Half of Cost Paid
Ask Out-of-town Students 
To Buy Tickets Early !
On Thanksgiving day the 'ChrlBtlan Association will hold; its annual dinner at Carnegie Inn; Thijs 
dinner 1.b- held for those students 
who must remain at Carnegie dur
ing the Thanksgiving recess.
The purpose of this  occasion, 
which Is a .campus tradition, is tc 
provide a Thanksgiving dinne* 
equal to one that could be obtain
ed at-home,'and one.that wlllb'e 
served in a Thanksgiving. at
mosphere.- Jaines Layton Sfia-iji 
charge of the arrangements .- and 
tickets sales. Half of the:- expense 
of. :the meai. will, be paid .by .the 
Christian . Association. Ticket^ 
may be purchased: at theChrlstian 
Aasociation office for. fifty, penis.' }' 
Last year a large crowd attended, and -a- large attendance iavex* pctd this year; Therei're,;tlcK- be purchased7 early,* inDormitory . girle will get.- tUlr nalat no extra chargeras.,
Carnegie Tech 
Is Honored 
By : Y. M. C. A.
All-American College 
Program Features 
Andrew Carnegie
Carnegie Tech 'will be honored by the downtown branch of the Pittsburgh Y. M. C. A. on its weekly radio program, "The All- American. College,. over station WCAE tomorrow-evening at 10:30.
The program will be a tribute to Andrew Carnegie, marking the one- hundredth anniversary of his birth. It . will consist mainly of a brief 
biography\.of.;Mr. Carnegie and ai
A, and songs by the Y.
saluting outstanding Amerclan colListening to Radio Does Not Decrease 
Mental Efficiency, Tartan Survey Shows
Students Who Tune In 
During Work Have 
Higher Factors
Does the fact worry you? Would you like to do something about it? Well you can. From now on just do your studying with the radio on, and your factor wilt be bound to improve. At least that Is the conclusion that can be drawn .from the results of a survey i^ceiitiy conducted' by''the-Tartan 
en the effects of studying while listening to the radio.For the poll, conducted amoung 375 students selected at random from all three colleges, revealed the rather interesting fact that, despite- generally accepted opinion to the .contrary, radio does uot have a harmful effect on the. mental efforts of college students.Radio Raises Factor . Perhaps/fn tW raodfetti &gti of
clamorand hustle, with its essary accompaniment and uproar we have come to accept noise as a necessary evil and have become more or less immune to it* or perhaps Carnegie = stu- dents.have simply, developed super power of concentration. What- the reason, the fact remains those'students-who listen-to 
the radio : while studying have a higher, average ..factor . than > those who: pursue' tielr j. studies. amidst deep>*llerice. , The flgures. compJl
CanvMtedStudylna3i dying
Margaret Morrison .
Arts ...................
Engineering .........
Carnegie Tech .....
attendance at' Carnegie. Each asked his' or her naime and the question, Do you listen to the rdio when you'study? The fac- tors were obtained from, the permanent-record^ kept by the recorder.
- Women Prefer Silence 
The/ eurvey .revealed a number of intere^ting' facts. Women students, -it-seems,-still believe-rct-hcr- firmly- in the- notion that radio is a distraction to be avoided, when the more-important matter of preparing Hessons.iis at hand, whereas the ' men are more, inclined to consider it a more or less  pleasant background: for their .. mental efforts. Tlius, of ;176 Margaret Morcent, admitted studying with the radio on, : whereas In. . the ; College of Englheerlng CO/ t .of. 121,. or .vei^: nearly}, BO.^r cent,/
Fine Arts with its mixed student body was also closcfty divided on the question. Of the 73 students canvassed, 40 answered VYes" aud 38, No.
Listeners Hayo Hiflhcr Factprs...
Despite the fact that 70 p6r cent
of & point.lower than the 2.66 aver^ age of - those'; who , worked 'under the supposed handicap of trying
itliout, the flgui ing 2.07 and 1..93. respectively, a difference of 0.4 of appoint.
Th College^of Fine Arts' proved th exception In this case. 'The 40
i-llsteners.A number of the students -.when questioned answered ciulte frankly; *T dont study.' It-seems tod bad, Uiat their factors were not incWd;i ed i n the su r vey. : They ' may have offered- Somev,intereHting. compariSalaries of Staff Members 
To Be Held Back Til 
Debts Are Pajd
Thero is trouble on the horizon 
for those campus organizations 
which have been delinquent in 
settling their accounts with the 
1935 Thistle. At its meeting of No
vember 12, Student council passed motion approving a petition presented by James M. Latta 36, editor of the 1935 Thistle, which vests in the Council the authority to collect all outstanding bills before December 1.The resolution, as It was passed by . Student council, Is as follows: that the collection oC Thistle bills be,placed under the supervision of Student council, iiid that if the bills are not paid before December 1, Student council investigate the financial stability of the organizations in question with the possibility of refusing them future recognition as campus organizations. 'Last' week, letters containing the above resolution were sent out to those organizations which still owe for their section in last years yearbook.... Student council also expressed in the letter the desire that .the delinquent organizations take proper steps, to- settle their ac- i the resll-gatlon of. the organization would' be. necessary.At.thg.present time the collect!-
$430 . of- which represents clali against student, organizations..The/passage of this .bill was a ^protective-measure for.the salaried members. . .of the. ! yearbook. . Although all-expenses Incurred Jn.'the ^\ihllBtlng^t.-.t-ha^l^35r IjCOkTiW
In full. It Is for this, reason that Student council has assumed the responsibility '.-tit1 -'collecting the bills.
Student.council took'similar action last year with very BatlsfacTan Beta Pi 
Gives Dinner
Engineering Honorary 
Receives .Initiates
The Carnegie Tech chapter of 
Tau Beta PI, national honorary en
gineering fraternity,- is holding Its 
fall Initiation and banquet today. 
The initiation yill be hgld.at fourthirty, to be followed by the ban
quet this evening at theCarnegie 
Inn.
The speaker at the banquet will 
be . Mr. G. A, Burrell, well-known 
petroluem engineer, who Is a Tau 
Beta PI from Ohio State. Mr. Bur- Pittsburgh man, has traveled extensively, spending two years In Russia. He has just returned from Texas. He has not chosen a definite subject but will probably talk about his. travels.-;Richard Dennison, president of the: organization, will give a speech of welcome to the new members, A reply will be given by Philip Morrison. Ray Hanna, presenting - the alumni, and Dibe given the Initiate who has written the beat thesis on the subject, What Tau Beta Pi Can Do for the Engineering School.
Freshman All-Carnegie 
Dance Features Al Buhl
Popular Orchestra to Play 
Friday At Thistle HallHarvey Neiss and Eleanor Bright, Freshman Class ' 
Presidents, in Charge of Affair; Tickets 
On Sale at Christian Association. Office
1 Buhl ond his twelvo-piece orchestra will furnish tke .j 
music for the Freshmun All-Carnegie Dance this Friday oven* ; 
ing from 9 to 1 ot Thistle Hall. The orchestra is well kno\yii ! 
on the cnmpus, having played for the Praterbity Smp und 1 
Swing, the. Women's Junior Prom, th Intersority Formal, and : 
the Temple-Carnegie football dnnco. In'addition lo his inter- i -^pretatlonc of .the - latest. aongs. Al . 
Buhl presents as featured vocalists. /
Al Buhl, who brings his twelvepiece orchostra to play for Oh 
Freshman AU-CarneQle dance 
Thistle hall.
Cwens Close 
F und Drive 
Tom or row
Campus-wide Tag Day 
Concludes Years 
Welfare Activities
Cwens, Bophomore womens hon 
orary, will end the Community 
Fund drive by a. campus Tag Day 
be held under the direction or 
their president, Maxine v< Foster; 
Pledges and casli contributions, will'
Margaret Morrison 'College' has climbed to second-place'* tie- thre col iers- still' lea freBhmen class-leads In'each col
lege.Faculty returns amounting to $3,400 are practically complete,
The Cwen tag day was prompted by the success of the''night school tag drive conducted last week by the seniors of Margaret Morrison, the Womens Guild, and Cwens.Unless student contributions _iaterially Increase our quta of .$6,000W1U not be-approached. Students who have not contributed are urged to' do so at once In the Christian Association office.
the - affair ;Ie by
Music Students 
Present Recitals
Msice-, Programs Plaascd 
For Sunday Evening:
Lttl- Theater of the College of Fine Art's, November 24, at 8:15; p.The program will consist of Wtders Allegro from  Sixth SymPiano Sonata. Op. 10" played by Brtha Chaitkin: Blzet'a Air, C est c*es/... Contrebandiers" (Carmen)6ung by Marie Motter: Wagner s 'Traume and biegmund s x Lle- beslied (Die Walkre) sung by Milton Brlin- and Grieg-s  Son- ,ata for Violin and Piano Op. 46" played by Wilma -Meise and Marjorie Cribba. Winifred Sullivan and Matthew Frey will accompany 
th students.Students and their friends aTe Invited... Admission .1;iree.^,
Richard Mayne 
Chosen Assistant 
To Mr. Beatty
Mr. Richard H. Mayne, president 
of the senior Engineering class ot 
1930, has been chosen to All the 
position of assistant to Mr. John 
Beatty in the Bureau ot Recom
mendations. He is replacing Mr., 
Ray H. Waterson '29, who resigned, 
recently.Since graduation Mr..Mayne.has been engaged by the Hoppers Rheolaveur Company. Sloan ZookOil Company,-and the Ford Motor Company, He assumed his hew duties on Saturday.Mr. Wateraon is now employed In the. construction department of the Westinghouse Airbrake Company. __________
Military Men 
Join Honorary
Initiated After Forma] 
Pledging Ceremony
Called At Dance
New Members Will Accept 
K.O.X>C. Conumssioiis
Twenty-one pledges -were' initiated intp tho Scabbard and Blade honorary - fraternity Saturday morning; November 16. After a six-hour Initiation period, from midnight to dawn, they were formally accepted,
Tho :Scabbard and Blade is honorary society which chooses, Its members' from those students who are: taking advanced couraoB- ln tho R. O. T. C. with tn\ intention of accepting, a commission in Officers Reserve Corpsiy 
Twice .a year: new students pledged,  This pledging takes place at/'the -Sprlng-.CarnlvaV and at the
pledged; Scabbard and- -Blade .are William L.' Latta, Glenn Daughton, John Wiirti; Lyndeh Osgood: Lewis Johnston; Charles Ziegler, Raymond Q. Duke, William Franz^ Edward Muklewlcz;-Warren Roberts,- Sheldon; Hartford, -William iCHASI George Joule, Charles- Schwerin, Will Wheeler,) Henry. - Rydhnniek, Charles Ralslg, Guy_ Emery, SteDoctor James 
Will Speak
Carnegie To Be Subject 
Of Teknon Club Talk
Teknon, Club will celebrate the one-hundredth birthday of Andrew Carnegie at a meeting- In the Shadyslde Presbyterian church on November. 21, at 6:16.
Dr. James of the p.epartment-of Chemistry will be guest speaker. In his speech, he will discuss Mr. Carnegies, relation to. this school.
Included on the program will be the.reading of a letter from Mrp.
letter from Dr. Hugh -Thomp- Kerr, pastor' of .the Shadyslde Presbyterian church, and now ln: Scotland;., and a. contralto solo by Miss Mabel King, accompanied by Mr. Charles Pearson of the faculty. ; .Among the guests of the Teknon Club will be Dr. and Mrs. Watkins, Mrs. James K. Reed. Mrs. C. H. Spencer, and Mrs. James Kay.
Seniors and Plebes--Take a Look!
Latest DiversionLiule Red Book
By Alta -Moses 
Toppfiig all else on campus for 
Its usefulness, the new Student di
rectory is ratingand we mean rat
ing, in all Carnegie circles. From 
Senior to Plebe they are devour* 
lug this little red bo6kgloating over their own names lu print and 
toughing -a.t othrfiv'^aeiV^VL phone numbers, and even pointingerrors (like the 'ligma Nu Is classified under. VWomens Honorarles1).The' directory, it seems*, is being put to some uses for which It was never ; intended by itB publishers! , For example, a. studenit of painting claims that he haa foiind inspiration in this guide; When he
the first color. wb6se name strikes hlB eye. The Hughe* Gray. Green. Black. Brown; and Blue(stone) are really:there; In the form  of students' : names. Then there Is the. desperate. senior .who has turned-to the directory for- lielp in choosing;.a vocation.. He
negle students
_________________glli
 directory, of course, has
ambitious Plebe: wants to: date some notable, siich as. the Treasurer of. the Soph' class at Margaret Morriaon. &gain the .little book . is first and - foremost. rAs a matter of fact, - the' directory has' convenient information for-every, student. It contains the address.-, telephone number, course.-and clags pf every* .one;registered..at Carnegie: - ev^n officers v- and' members of every. Greek orgamzatlon.on campus-are included
. Doubtless, the Student directory interesting, as It Is .useful.
book.: noticing the variety, of names: and:.-place*-that are Hated.: .It Je worth the satisfaction alone which every. Tech*ite should have In realising the.slze and .extent--of his'(oi- her). school. : Theres no. .question about, it: ;.it'e Just Mrfect: in every respect,.thia .v Studedt .iDii^ctory.
Kf"
&uddlo Biliar, Anne; Hamilton, and 
Jnch Bebrenberg.
The chaperons who have been 1 
Invited nre: Mr. and Mrs. vH. K.
Kirkpatrick, Mr. ond Mrs. H. M. 1 
McCully, Mr. oud Mrs. J: C. War-'Tv .. 
ner, Mr. and Mrs! I* Stiuitierl;:;.':,V:;. ' '. V;;/:i: 
The list of patrons ^heiudos: ;  
Doan Mnry Watson Green;'Deau 
and Mrs. Arthur W. T<frbell, Dr. v: 
and Mrs. ctiarles'Watfcins^rir/arid 
Mrs. .HAEHH M. Ihrig; Mr. and Mrs. : 
Webster N.' Joneu; Mt. arid. .Mrs;
Alan Bright.'-rv V'V Thosa' In charge of this affair are Harvey NeiBB. preBldpnt pt ihe ' i^r: freshman class, of tjie C6llogo .,of. .. Engineering, arid Eloonor.- Bright; ''14'- presidentor the'freshmnn 191059 of % Margaret MorrlBon. .- "V- ? /- '}-'i'.'-?:.The committee in charge, of,-,doc-. orations nnd postera includes Max Llch; Jr.,' chairman,, aided, by- Ed ward Rosenthal1 ond^ii,ixJk Those In charge of programs and r'v - 'v tickets Include HoEVfly-Neins.-chalr- . man, Bill - Smith,. E^wpjrd -;McCflr*:rfpithy, and Dick Craig. . . ' . .........The chaperpn committfee ;-i^;posed .ofiEle^nor Bright, ctLairmas^-;
the affair j.-The price of; admissionTickets may bei Gonired from theibers of the ticket conimlttaa. \t the Y office ^
Graphic Arts !-|| 
Group Formed 7^
Purpose Is to Promote  j 
Interest in Printing !
Carnegie will be .represented In ^ \
the newly ^organized National Stu- \ >
dents Graphic ArtB Society by I' 
Professor Glen U. - CJe^ton,1 
the Department of Printing and ; 
Industrial Education. Thia' society 
was' organized- recently by the Ni^ :  '
tlonal Education Association.1 The V' 
purpose of the N. S.- G^-Ai'S. 1s-to. promote1 interest In * printing ,in,Ju* M
r
tion is the moatv.lnWentIal} oTfefe* :i?v;t,,',-i Ization in deteriiiliiin^^the natlcm&l k -f ^policies ot public edocatloik- V ' fe,1Henca."..-aayu rProffi*or Cleotoa, ^ - -"the establlshmont of the National t.Student Graphic Aits bui.icty un- dar-lts * sponsorship-isa - very'fa* : vorablc movi for tboa< ft ms Interested in . printing.;^education. It means that more-school *\lll t* ich 1printing; and that .more students will learn the-^^ nidlments ;atid;-poe-_ \elbllttles 0/ printing as a vocatidD. "It. also means that ..the quality'of .
the Influence of. the N.. :
throughout the United States what. llthe National Bar Association" iS',t6;>'. lawyers..' The /'Stijdent Leader, 绗
Pi Tau Sigma Hold 
Annual Initiation
Membre and Pledges Meet ; 
Tomorrow At Inn; 
, Pi Tau. Sigma, . honorary Meehan^., leal. Engineering.v fr;tftrhity,.<ylf^i hold Jts ; annual . fall  .dinner; anlM? initiation tomorrow'. .; Th'ev.ttetngs^s: will be held at:.4:30 in'thevFaCuli^Ti--; Club : room;  and -will , be <- fll.f by the dinner at 6 00 in the Caf^r" negie Inn Mr; II:'F. Frry.' Genral>Spcriii" intendant- .of. the Aiummum.ii Co^; .poration of America, ls-tbe' Bpeaker^ for.-tho- -occasions lir.i Ferry-v.iSafe graduate of>-M. I. Tv and isiacUviiKl In the local Y M C A Toastmaeter<;for, the-; dinnen be Prof.- W.i.^Trinks.... AiTespohl

---------------------------------------------------

It UM
3The Carnegie 3Tartaa
PHONE MAYTLOWER 2
keCARNEGGGGGGGI
AdTvrtliQis MwiarlPtibUehcd .wehly during tb coll j*r by.Ute andergnd- vate> ot Cfernoefo-Inwbita o, .Technology. ' Entona  in  the ' PltUbargh Port Office ^ aecond<laa netter.:. : . i"
PHOTOGRAPHIG ;EDITOR: ,J*tn   EXCHANGES: .Rosemary B. Piet CIRCULATION MANAGER: A.TVPISTS:  Mary - Lou Sehlanr.-  STAFF ARTISTS: . C. Suo Fuller 
JXJNIOR EDITORSLoulee B
indori
SPORTS STAFF:
Give the Lady a Big 
Contribution
I
F YOU lost a nickel or a dime, would you
......brood over .it? True, you would make a
; conce>tcd effort to find it, but it would not agi
tate your mental or financial equilibrium to 
any perceptible degree. Operating on this 
hypothesis, the Cwens, womens sophomore 
honorary, will distribute change boxes tomor,,- 
'/r'ow'iri the various eating plaecs on the campus 
to raise additional money for Carnegies con
tribution to the Community Fund. Under the 
direct canvassing system of soliciting funds, 
there are'many students who either were not 
contacted or were abashed by financial cir
cumstances to contribute what they could af
ford. The "bos' campaign is a logical solu
tion. .
r f/AQCording to .all indications the students 
share, of Carnegie's contribution to the fund 
will total about $400 at the end of the cam. paign, November 20. This amount represents 
. ;an average donation of twenty cents per stu; dent. This is unbelievably low. The majority 
. ofr Carnegie students are in an enviable posi
tion; 'In fact, all young petople who have the 
Opportunity to go to a school of higher learningf-are in an enviable position. Here at Car: negie there are those who support the social 
^,calenda^Aa/'S\ich an. extent that many affairs 
v.must of .necessity. be limited in attendance.
1 yetj this 6ame group'of ..aocial lions will balk 
when asked for a contribution of a few nickels.
 Do you know that the dollars spent in. edu
cation' and development of character among
.; boys and young men save, themselves many 
,'timea over in preventing the costly problems 
?";of "delinqJfency, crime and maladjustment, and 
..producing better mental'and,physical health in 
.the community-1 :-.>Here \ia c6ncrete.:?etification 
//..taken from the CatholjcBoyS Welfare Bureau report of last year It costs the taxpayers of 
/ the county $410 per year for each 6oy placed
-in^.aVcorrective institution while the cost of 
iprp|teMiv^\care^sucfe;as is given by:this and 
'bthersoeial agencies is about $10 per boy per 
year.,'  Th^ Community Fund does not represent^eharity in the' true sense of the word, 
vijt': is rather a sensible, practical attempt to 
rrHELP' human beingg in the wisest way. It is 
as sdjentific as the work of a physician. YOU 
^ca^nelp. See to. it; that a few of your nickels 
'  find^their . way . into a Cwen eollcctionbox tot Are There Too 
Many Fraternities?
 -TiRATBRNITY Tushing season is almost upon 
K-Vj/JpVus. In less than two weeks begins the; mad 
i; : sWrT of,activitya. strange and bewildering 
ii'Tfkprience for the. freshmen and. an exciting 
ih but polite contest for the fraternity men. As 
| ; ::there. islittle-time then for thoughtful evalua1 tion of any sort, .it would be a good thing if the 
vV" paternities, they are beginning their prep{artion for'th'e; various events, would devote 
t v:y:a<:]ittle time to a more or less serious self 
. . praisal.
iv.v :.LrSoine persons have said, recently, that, Avneril:. .;-:ieaii. -fraternities are declining slowly but inf' -.. i eyitbly. Others, ; in contradiction to this 
^-^oprny prediction, have said-that any uotice^ ^able decline in fraternity organiation is merely 
%:^temporary phenomenon that necessarily 
: companied. the depression, but that will vauish 
5.{dJfi%^nVe^,'';;'^^iitWer: the'future will be,-it 
!^:;':r!tru/tliiat at present many fraternities are < 
?p:/v;'oim!tringdifficulty in maintaining tliemseb 
;4 .financially independent, some have even found 
it'necessary to disband. Such a situation is 
^r^-unfortunt and embarrassing not only for the 
Members themselves, but also for the Adminiswhich of. necessity bears part of the 
^ aud ^for pledges, who could be
 ^invblved in . obligations whose existence they 
rHaid:not suspect during rushing. The problem 
$f: financial weakness is an important oiv 
ij: . ^concerned and merits serious consideration, 
^^ '--  Sbme have suggested that perhaps the best 
^-^^lutLoii'to the problem would be that of havtfi^ Fr^ -fei  them^elvi
fe-^''weak;to withdraw from the. running and leave 
^ clear for those stronger groups Who
k tf tfr definitely able to. fulfill their obligations. 
ɒ^ertinly: in theory this is th simplest olu^^:o-ji.wfith^r it is.th wisest or the. most pracIw^blg "remains- for. th fraternities, to. decide, 
v - The chief difficulty, it seems to us, is that of 
'* 'determining what a weak fraternity is, for a 
J "Single successful rushing season niay Taise ; a 
^ -(?ro\ip from a precarious to a very .eecurc poy^^^nd:dciflion.oii':this:..prop,osal involves in ef-:- 
fe^bt'?'decision' on the relative merits..of. tw; 
flj^temsthat of the large number of small 
itieti now existing at .Carnegie Tech, or 
a;8mall number; of-large fraternities cx#;i-iating at-'many -Eastern universities. Whether
groups remains for fraternity members them
selves to decide.' .The discussion'of this prob
lem does hot lie within: th'e.'BCbpe-of pur pr^ 
ent purpose. ' ;*-3r.;-*.:f ; { i. r:->^ 
In any case, we can only advi3 fresHmen to 
;e discretion<in choosing a fraternity, to try 
to' penetrate, the .inevitable display; of rushing 
season, and determine the true standing of the 
groups in which they niay be interested, before 
making a final, decision .on any one of them.
Foreign critics have found a great number of 
faults wltb tbe American, government. Some of 
them re trivial, and If : desired by tbe people, 
could be remedied In a short time; others would 
take years and then tbe cure probably'would not 
be complete. Among tbe latter group 4.we find 
tout men elected to positions of authority fre
quently do not have the ability necessary to 
manage their duties properly.
In studying'thle' condition, one thing Is very, noticeable, and that Is that young men of real ability, talent, and honesty very seldom bare any desire to engage in politics ae a life work. If any young man does consider It, there always seems to be a large number of arguments to dissuade him. One of the most powerful of these is the financial compensation Involved. It Is a well known fact that the Income of ao honest politician cannot even be compared with tbat of the professional man, or even a skilled laborer with the same length of experience. (This situation lias not been created by sub-normal salaries for public employes, but by tbe abnormal incomes from otber occupations, compared with the same two items in other countries.) This is what has led to the large amount of "graft in our national, as well as state ond local governments.In addition to receiving but a comparatively- meager income, we And that the average politician in the United States must pay out almost unbelievable sums for campaign funds. This Is the cause of still further, dishonesty, for very few young men, or even those who ore older and have earned money for some time, could provide these funds themselves. They must of necessity resort to promises of future favors to any number of persons, who are able to supply tbe amounts needed. There are very few of our legislators who are not supported by some per-' eon or group of persons who expects their actions to be guided toward the best interests of 'themselves, regardless of tbe welfare of tbe people as a whole.Another great difficulty confronting the average young man desiring to enter politics Is the problem of getting started unless he has a drag. This consists of finding backers who will contribute to his campaign In other ways than financially, such as using their own influ: once and supposed good names, or even stumping for him. Unless he is willing to promise a political plum to them, they usually will have nothing to do with him. At times these supporters are a hindrance Instead of a help: but with our present electoral set-up, they are an almost universally necessary evil.Next In Importance to the support of others in any successful attempt,,at election to public of-, lice . Is the personality, or appeal to the people, of the. Individual. He must be able to talk persuasively.. He must be able to meet people and make friends with them; It seems that many of our present public ^offlclal are little more than dramatic or picturesque characters who have appealed to the average voter through this medium. A great number , of men.whn'u ability to .govera .woiild be undoubted If ever tried, are,lacking in tbese essential for. election, and therefore are lost to some otber line oC.en- deavop;WWctdoe no.triequire these qualities to " a great, extent.
monetary return of public office, It has been customary to resort to dishonesty. These practices are certainly no worse-than, , and often are> not as reprehensible as. those of a number of highly esteemed financial figures of the present day. But there seems to be a stigma of dishonesty associated with politics which is not connected with any other business. This Is probably ac- sociated -with politics' which is not connected
wizards Be that that politics
offered voluntarily in the hope of gain, it may,- the general opinion persists honest .profession. ~cause of this feeling, It is usually shunned by.
Still another seeming drawback to politics is the impermanent nature of.any elective position.' | Although we may find instances in which the . public services of an individual have been, continuous until his death, more frequently It is not so. When a'party goes out of power, it usually
times, even, the party as a whole Is no deserving of removal, but falls before a whim of the populace, or tli'e propaganda of an opposcomplete dissertation' on the subject, but is a mere outline of the more salient facts. As such It can do little but call to mind the situation as It exists, and in a few .words to appeal'to those. whqVjbat^tfte power of remedying it.' AspWently. what we need is a change In governmental set-up whlcU'Wlll makoittyasible the part^drpitlon In politics,'or betterB;invthe man* agementi of agencies for the people'sj&elfare, of men; $Jiose ability and honesty will'b> beyond a doubt above that of-men in these.position today. Such a change can be brought about only by the wish of the-people. But it is in the power of certain of these people to lead the rest. These leaders should be chosen from among those of ,the coming' generation who have already shown their ability and leadership thus far in schools and colleges throughout the country. It Is these young men and women, and they alone, who must worry about the future and who can also take care of it by thinking and acting now toward a definite change for the better. JOHN J. KEILEN, JR.
Intercollegiate Clips
HANGOVER
THE CAMPUS ON SATURDAY 
night being deader than any engi
neer in an exam'on Monday morn
ing; a few of tbe more venture^ 
i . decided to tear over and 
take In .the TV. & J. homecoming 
dance . . .1 Can't understand 
though why tbe dance was over at 
12:00 unless the .'fellows bfid'to be 
in tbe dorms by then.
HEy,;HANSON! .'WHAT'S Boston 
got tbat Pittsburgh hasnt? Maybe 
the boon's brighter!
of their cockiness away and more they wear the bright ] and black tie . . . and like It.
IT'S A SECRET YET, but wbat has Helen Lu Belle received that has all the dorm girls In a panic?
NORTH PARK WAS THE scene of mysterious war maneuvers lest Friday 'night when tbe "StabberB and Gay Blades beld their Inltlato their house . . . somebody had habit of throwing stones through their -windows . . . the boys bad to go back to keep the castle from disintegrating. -
POLLY ROWLES1 CRASHED THE I's . news once more' . parrying a banner for tbe Army , . . newspaper photos and everything . . . not as a tribute to the Army but to prove her Carnegie
of the boys unfortunately came Into tbe room and said Hlya Weinberg," while that worthy was flrm-| ly and vigorously denying, the. prei
him. f
WE HEAR THAT THE Tartan radio program Carnegie Tech Pre
sents is about to resume its broadcasting schedule for the present season . . . predictions credit bigger and better quarter hour th Wallington Dozer
Two Gun- Ackely.
dental of receiving any flowers tbe other day. But how come so much trouble choosing which one of the corsages she finally decided to
MARY LOU MEHLER ALSO has cadet memories . . . she forgot the boy scout motto and consequently became a victim in that old game commonly known as ding:
DR AND MRS. ROSENBACH had a swell time at the Beta Slg. Monte Carlo dance last Saturday. They broke the bank at roulette nnd pocclno.
MARGARET MORRISON SORORI- ties finished their rushing Sunday night just two weeks after the Arts gals got down to wearing low- heeled shoes and cotton smocks In the Commons . . . the Schenley reaped tbe biggest harvest all three of the clubs tossed thfrir formals within its, walls Alphas and the Gammas Mn tbe patio while the Kappa Phi Delts lived the monotony and *naed the French room . . . now all the girls do is sit down and wait for the dean to announce thp winners.
ADD STUDENT DIRECTORY; miscellaneous errors . . . Margy McKeon chalked up as treasnrer.of .Student councl . \ ... wth Qcorge Jtlal- still- 'drawing the fray .check . . . Ray Horner listed as president$ so-called women's honorary.
Scibo-Scoops
. tEAN PLEOG UST 
i ; Fraternities face' ; the .j leanest year. In their'history;.at the University of Minnesota, with less than 160 men accenting dates for foribal rushing, in contrast to 240 last year. < As th^e are 30 fraternities on ,the. campas, an-average of only five men to a house will result even if all the' men pledge, which would ;be an unprecented occurrence.
CLAMOR FOR SPEAKINGYa.) universitys course in pu^ lie speaking will be conducted tblo year by The Yale News," since it has been dropped from tho regular curriculum as an economy 
measure.Since no academic . credit . was given for th course, the authorities felt justified in relieving the budget of its expense. The wave
acted in response to undergraduate demand, and it is expected that at least 175 students will enroll for the course this semester.
TALL STORYOne student froin every ten. at Loyola university is at least six feel tall, and 3C exceed that level, the tallest9" mark.
their annual  Open H6use;>dai last Saturday . . . all thei. cb sent down their Tepresentatl'. . . except the Tau Delta Phis they sent down the whole chaplei . . . nevertheless everything went OK . . . Dozer was there early to welcome the rest of the Betas the door . . . who took over tne pool room most of the evening . . . most -of the ATOs sister Susie , Business... et al. ware there . . . Kappa Slgs found It conven- to drop over from next door . while the PiKAs coasted i to the shelter from Squirrel v . . even the stags were;____i care off. . . brothers KIs-;sel- and Gilmore reluctantly relin-i quiehed their dates part of the evening .
Dear Editor
SOPHOMORES MEN?
Dear Editor:
I am not in the habit of writing 
letters to Editors,' but I feel that 
there Is a very bad situation in 
our school, and if by publishing 
these facts this situation might be even party alleviated, I .will feel tbat my letter is successful.
Th rotten situation is centered in the Sophomore class of the Department
day/ during: the. month of December,. In car on a'straight dry,, well-paved road In the country AND have'had a couple of drinkswatch it, because youre-heading for a crash..
;-;So says Prof. Harry Tucker, director of the North .Carolina.-Engineering Experiment Station and. head of .the highway engineering department He draws the-picture from statistics gathered during bis long experience;as;.a;h!ghway authority; '  ; ,In addltlon. to the setttn'g for.the ldeal_ fatality de-. plcted abo've-. the car is'ihi)it likeiy to be in good
r mbre yeara 'ofdriving experience.
Baton Rouge. La.When Sen.'Huey- Long, dying, asked.-. ^My ,university boys/.what will become- of them? he ..was. referring, : according to Dr. James Monroe Smith; president of .-Louisiana' State, University, to bis ' plan 'to send-1,000 needy .youths .to the university, this year..- <-v.-
i, and put themin thedelicate sink.I havo ieard-of rare-cases .where 
the freshmen in: some. colleges have successfully overthrown the sophomores 'and-, made'them wear- regulations, but' I never' thought that such a black cloud would descend upon us. And It is entire^ ly'the fault'of the sophomores.
Last fall on'the. day when the plebes are generally  supposed to be kicked ' around heard one timid Bophomore from the Department'---.of', Architecture
right to organize a sofofity. Pur ,. RUSSIA'S NBW GREAT TEIUMPH . . A  ~~Peasants*
Vital Chiwlcte Wth* fierce trorfeiw %~a*W;irmy ?| life , | ^ N.
Now Showing
<7aikiona.lfly @atteci . 
Howard 
Full Dress and Tuxedos
There is a definite yogue for "midnight blue" 
(which appears blacker , than black in the 
night light) Tuxedos and Full Dress. Hand
somely trimmed with lustrous satin or rich 
giosgrain lapels. For that affair .j. bettter.be at
tired in a,style-inspired Howard evening suit.
Tux or Tails
Backless Dress Vest $2*7S
HSJROb
CLOTHES
. . . neither have we
Y
OU have made great progress in the past 10 years. 
Lets see some of the things the Bell System has been 
doing in that time.
Since 1925, weve cut the average lime for completing Long Distance connections from 7Yz to \Vz minutes. 
Weve made the service more immune to weather94% of 
our wires are now in coble. Weve 
increased the telephones scope 
about 80%you can now reach 
nearly 31,000,000 telephones, in 
every quarter of the globe.
' The next 10 year period may 
bring equally important advances.
That is one of the ever-preaent 
thrills in telephone work!
BELL TELEPHONE
ASY WAY TO BORROW ..'v^^irr.^'VOURiROOM'IVlATES'. SHOES88'D_ 'D N'SR u'R
shH ngeCa o MMn
SLOCK OP 106(g) MELTS  
SLOWLY 
LOWERING 
FISH (g) TO
WARD CATS 
ON FENCE CAUSING 
THEM. TO 
YOWL LOUDLY. 
ROOMMATE 
THROWS 
SHOES AT CATC 
AND STUOENT 
CATCHES 
SHOES IN 
BASKET. .. (tion: shoes 
CAN BE 
RETURNED WHEN SOLES 
SET THIN .)
Sority LeadsACnfTR kads
PRINCE ALBERT IS
rtDI rH *** 
Hie, MtL>? AMoFUVO. iTAcr. Ajrai
p A IS CUtMP cuT a PACKS RlfrHT- -p-nwvmtnws'..ae**DHEHHlNbscc 
THtRl A SOPlPiTUJS IM TH* 9-OUNCC CONO>'
; . . %,U. TY HA. TO*V
c,hImt nplt,u
THE MATIONALJOY SMO*_---

---------------------------------------------------

THK'CABNECJE TARTAN. TUEST)* T. 'NOTEMBER 19.19
tartaW
SAUCE
By ScoUy : Charles
THIS, BOYS AND GIRLS, was a dull week-end for Tartan grid 
Hovvers'and a tough on on the writing personnel. .With tittle to.say, 
[as said In great detail. '
WITH THE FOOTBALL SEASON rapidly drawing to a close, the 
6ea6oB for coach knifing Is approaching. Thousands of alumni 
gathering at 'the gates of every college of any dimension and gettheir licences for the. sport. Shooting coaches out of season .Is 
BBldered uncricket in most sectors but the old grads are always In 
^e,e when the. time rolls round.^
THIS IS NOT INTENDED TO MEAN OUR OWN ALUMNI, I rush 
explain. However, It Is an age-old'custom to get the teacher after 
' thing but an undefeated season. With this Golden Rule In mind, 
*hre are now approximately 3,467 mentors putting In their reserva.* in the bread line. It Is difficult to follow the ouster logic but the 
Id cash on the line Is an argument not to be denied.
ON THE HOME GROUNDS the boys are loosening the hempen for 
Harpster. We have been'rather coy in mentioning this fact previously 
1*1 now it Is cbmmon gossip. However, rumors of Red Grange coming 
jwe and oilier sundry gossip must he token as such without subetan- lion We remain coldly neutral in this. situation so that we can 
dacfc everyone instead of only half of the maddening mob. More demdiallc.
SOMETHING IS WRONG SOMEWHERE but It 
jusl what it Is. After watching the Plaid for ......
I difficult to' say
, the <
; offensivihed that their play Is 
they can't gain much on the ground. Another 
iote Is that of the slowness In starting showing that they 
:ntal1y prepared for most game9. The Sklbos havent scor* 
in In the first half of a football, game 6lnce the Miami goofi
ONE THING WE WILL SAY FOR- THE PLAID THOUGHwed 
nlber see them make the showing they are making against the teams
them- beating a'bunch of small '
Tartan-Puppet Game Hot Dish Ready: 
All-American Berths Hang in Balance
Journalists Prime lor Tilt; 
Sellout la Certain As 
Overend Rejoices . .
By Barfly Weinberg Outshining all otljer. Thanksgiving grid cisBicB arid-* . givln g^e-r mondous headaches to llie Tnpfifi- ilve'athletic associations of Pitt and Carnegie Tech, will be the contest between the Tartan. Tramps and the Puppet PlmpB. These jborDallstic aces will-meet in a etrlclly grudge game', on _Turkey
ed in several Industrial homes and by experience. He started his football career at the .age of fifteen .... , . m _ when he ran 65 yards before theqtrlcily grudge game, on ^Turkey! *-0^ officer downgiLA|ro. ^^ecrae-tl^Sfl^cal^ffit? ^rmentiofi;^
been going on in both camps 1 fir tbe supervision of- 'Llversllp Boulelle for the Tramps ' and Droopydrawers Van  Valkenbufgh of the Pimps. Boutelle.who was a filar at PunXeatawney State\ Teach- 'ere College during: his seven years al that, institution, spoke very con- fiedntly of the prospects for the game. "Shoe9, as he Is .affection* etely called by hie boys1' said, "Tbo9e guys aint got a thing; In feci, it they had a thing, they wouldn't know what to do with it. "I aint sayin a thing, said the modest Van when Interviewed by Gallico and Runyan of the-smaller fibects, except that were not JosMn wiien we get into our Palace Kredit (advt.) uniforms$18.76,
with two pair of pants."; Other remarks were similar in their originality and- brittleness, Capt. Josh Charles, Tramp captain, smiled demurely when asked his opinion of the sJt&utlon,and said, We'll do or die, sink or swim, fall or fight,-lose or winbut think of .the. money, we. save..1 Brilliant fullbaekvtha't 'he- is,' "Dixie!'- Charles
hall. He-has followed the-.horses; cut' out". Jig-daw Cpuzzlefl, spiit:;liairs,; arid bred, gold flsb, all in bis short' colorful career of twenty-one years, come next St. Swlthins The teams are as well balanced as any two Insane asylums and we can see a fine scrap coming up. The Tartan warriors have lost the valuable services of Brick Kappel who has suffered a nervous breakdown through financial difficulties. Brick has been of great use to his team mates this year, having one of those never give up spiritsask his creditors.
Gedwilas Captures 
Junior A.M.A.Toga
W.Virginian Stars, Pinkerton 
L^ads Tartan Harriers
On Armstice Day th Junior A. A. Cross-Country Championship Wind was run off .oyva. soggy, wpjiery course through Schenley w*. Over fifty entries from the lsla(e district answered the gun. Although Pitt enter-  inree varsity and three . fresh- teams, it took a lone entry rrom ihe Mountaineer State to 
r^W-,the hoys tlie way. Barney wowilaa Of West Virginia Uni- wity completely out-classed the Med field by finishing far stead m the fast time of 22 minesand 43 seconds. Pinkerton, 
a*  Sllb08aild "Red Tost.;of- * Panthers battled for aecond *U tlie way, the Tartan final- r. topping third.. pitt ran away 
si ? loam honors as the Plaid var- ? car>tureri fourth place.
C.S. EDMAN
PRINTER
HAzel 0193
6470 Monitor Street
UKE UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Kookleys
RESTAURANT
Wlo FORBES STREET
 Good Food
 Moderate Prices
 Excellent Service
dancing Ev.ry Evening^*
TIERNANS
CAFE
Phone SChenley 9505
SPECIAL LUNCHES 
SEA FOOD
Opposite Forbes Field
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Tartan Offers Survey ; 
Of Gridiron Situation
Observer Comments On 
Current Criticism Of ; 
Carnegie Team
RUMORSOF CHANGES 
ARE UNFOUNDED
Caaching Staff, Players and 
Athletic Association 
Share Criticism
the confidence of the players In his
fault of his, It has hurt the ?am8, spirit
Most of'the Tartan grlddors are;
the Carnegie football team, the opinion of this writer that th team has done quite well this season, all things considered, but the balancing of wins against losses
are several factors i
What About the Coaching?Much has been said in criticism of Coach Harpster and his system. Harp is a comparatively youug coach who has made some mistakes, readily admits them and is willing to explain anything he hasHow, the responsibilitycant be placed shoulders.When he gives the team a play calling for three man interference for the ball carrier and all three men miss their block, it cant all be bl.amed on the coach. The boys have had more drill on fundamentals thie year than ever bofore. General luck of experience accounts for the erracity of most of the playbeat. Notre D&zne and Harp hero. The next- year at South Bend Lewis missed the same kind of pass, the Plaid lost and Harpster was bum. If an end is sucked in or half gets out of position and
who Is only human.
of candidates for each . position makes the- sledding even bumpier.
A defensive team, such as Carnegie had last year, is built around a pair of big tackles. Look at this years list'of tackles: Heurlon, a swell guard moved out to help th post but as yet green in this .capacity compared to the opposiboy who never played till last . ind Hall with only about twenty minutes of varsity experience at
> the tired and Injured grldders st. The difficulty of the courses end lack of finances make it impossible for a big, experienced squad to carry on the Plaid .of the ichool to victory.
And Now the A. A.The Athlctic Association is tbe >rganizallon that makes the football teams possible at Carnegie. The opportunities adorded tlie gridders here are as lucrative as be found in any college of size in the country. They dont such a> wide choice of candidates becauBO of th difficulty of offered herea factor thSt keeps many a fine plebe play
outseems to lie in the schedule.The Carnegie football reputation built in the halycon days of
teams, but between league game, there was a setup boys to rest on. These goofers added up the total points, made individual stars and gave betopined by the sideliners. One tion claims that he knows football but Isnt able to teach itthis is quite possible.. The best student isnt always the: beBt teacher and an Inability, to Impart knowledge is ho fault of.tlie Individual, point, generally-, admitted, is tht
seldom clamps', .down', or makes (bem;put. on the pressure and he isn't a maBter at 'the .art of stinging oratory. This...laxily may be one of' the difficulties of the present situation. .. However, tbe big  reaflonr-ii^ipy'-opliribnrrB laclo ot* confidence in tbe coach: Without
~1 i ;
Talk of the Town
GOLD ROOM
JOEL CANDULLO
EVELYN ROYCE
PHONE ATLANTIC 3700
ROOSEVELT
I I , HOTEL
your bank 
as you would choose 
afriend,
?
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
The Parade of the Pins!
EVERY MONDAY AND WEDNESDAY
NEXT!!
November 20. ... .. ....   . . . .'. .Lambda Chi Alpha 
November25......... ..Sigma Alpha Epsilon
with KAY KYSER
His Music . . Funsters .Singers ... Novelties ... His -r'~. Youthful Versatile Band . . .
Enjoy a Great Night . . What
v Supper Dancing 1 I I
THE CHATTERBOX
s r*; Minimum Check  $1.00 ..
HOTEL WILLIAM PENN
Thenailtnber
opportunities fortries
flnlsh.'nary a breather in the entire length. It has been said that the present schedule is too much for the squad, but as we look over the records we wonder how the famous Tartan'teamB of yore would .'against...' such- cotnnBHMo*.- i*hey- might":make., a. ilttle',better
Skibo Mermen 
Prepared For 
Hard Schedule
Skibo . Swimmers Faced 
With Severe Tests; 
During Season
The Tartan'swimming aggregation is shaping' up in flue style. .Tryouts for the team were held yeBterday where, some pretty good
' This year ought to see quite a relay team - as -there are quite a number of men to swim It. Mort Leavitt, Captain Holiday, CUnt Froellch, Lee Hammerscbmidt.and Jim Pendleton are all caudidates for the relay. The 200-yard breaststroke race will be upheld by Patterson, a last year freshman swimmer, and - Dick Dennison, shitting :thls year from the 440.The dushes, the 60 and the 100, will be flashed by Captain Holiday, Froellch, another freshman, Leavitt and Hammerschmidt. The 220- jard swim, which has degenerated Into merely a 220-yard dQ6h will be swum by Captain Holiday, as sisted by Tom Hughes and Micky
Junior Champion of Pennsylvania/
slgler, and Captain-Holiday
January 11  Slippery Rock (State Teachers)here.Jonuary 18Delawarehere. February 8  Slippery Rock  there.February SirFranklin and Marshallhere.
February 29Manhattanthere. March 6Western Reserve Universitythere.
'March-14-7-3... C. S. A.Manhat-'
Boxing Team 
Getting Ready
Squad Appears Strong 
As VeteraiM Return..
This* last week the candidates 
for. both the freshman and varsity 
boslng'teams Btarted working out 
In the gym. 'kle years teanr has 
the prospects of being tbe best Id 
the school's history because of the 
wealth of material prsent. ' Box
ing .has. been one of th fastestgrowing sports at Carnegie-and 
this ..year should be no exception.
The majority of the men on InBt year's squad were sophomores and are back'this ^ear -ready to go. Brooks Ely, Ray Wisniewski, Sha- ptra, Krlotzman, Beal, and Boyd, the neucleus of last year's team, are all back and should be better because of the experience galued in the ring last year.
This year, as was done last year,
ing seasou starts. At the present time matches have been tentative* ly scheduled with Catholic University, West Virginia, and Pitt. The climax of the season- will come with the Intercollegiate Bouts at West Virginia March 20*21.
Carnegie Booters 
Continue Season
Cnrnegio Tech's soccer team starts out today on the second half of its season when it plays the Western Pennsylvania Institute for the Deaf on the home field. The last gamo was a defeat by Slippery Rock State Teacher's col. lege.last Monday at Slippery. Rock.
Tech was swamped in the first half when Sllpery Rock Bcored Its seven goaU, after which Tech tightened, permitting no goals, but scoring two of its own, makingthe ;7-2.
plays Duquesne here Tuesday before Thanksgiving. The Munhnll High school team comes here pecember 7, and following
Women's AthleticsBy Margie Green
According to' the weatherman, 
we mladalciiated out change .of sea
sons by only one week. That last 
week, however, Svas to have been 
the'wlnd>up of outdoor sports,'and
Moned," 'halMtearted- -enthusiast hanging In mid air. The much her 
aided Field Day fizzed up like well
... _____ A few gallantlassies, primitively armed with bows, and arrows, braved the swamp land, only to siuk knee deep (well, ankle deep, anyhow) Into the mud puddles. If these peety, hourly raln-drizzles should cense for as much as two days this week, Grace Griffin, Florence Marts, t\nd Ruth Mililklh, aloug with several others, could match wits for the bull's eye championship.
However, as . far . as bowling, basketball, and swimming
manager, has already arranged tor her practice schedule, with due consideration to the freshmen because of their lack of basketball iu gym classes. Beginning this week,
s. Thelatter are urged to favor tho 3:30 practice, to avoid the usual congestion at the noon period.The bowling season began last Friday at the Murry-Beacon Alleys. Rose Serrao, ns you know, is your manager for this sport. The big
MRTZ LINES 
Exprs); Bus Service
NewYork
Detroit
MURRAY-BEACON ALLEYS
The World's Most Beautlful BowIIna AI|eya' - . -
26 AUeys^-Fraternity Parties Solicited
1916 MURRAY AVENUEJACKSON 0266
with any day except Sunday and holidays,.  from dawn -till''- scrvea clock: in the eyeqlng: In-which to bowl them. Take a Htlle advicp, nevertheless, frocn-oue whoknows. Rose suggests; the psyohology of better-technique with a-wlder-dis*'. trlbutlon of practices: than with amming-of all twenty .lines
especially -if there is a c^owd'wait*
and Thanksgiving vacations should provide ^somo . convenient sparo
this Thursday, so do not ..overlook any notices that may be posted concerning the '  detailB. '"' Liko basketball and bowling', swimming will be open to freshmen, as well as upper-classinen, with a program of guinea and Instructions for each practice.
J ACK DINES
Oakland's Only Cigar Dealer . 2r< Forbee St & Oakland Ave.
WHAT THE MILDNESS OF CAMELS
jieP ar tiGrvP ihLiardP
1 XieucenantCommanderFrankHawks,
|| U.S.N.R., famous holder of2l4sp(jcd 
^ records and the Harmon Trophy;. 
says: fTve been Bytag for 19 years 
and smoking Camels almost as long/ 
Making speed records tests the >lloc - 
as well as his plane. Camels never.-, 
make me jumpy or bother my physi
cal 'condition* in any way.^As die. . 
athletes say, Camels are so mild,., 
they dont get the wind. And I've 
found they never upset my nerves: 
Camel muse use choicer tobaccos!"
ssz
 "I appreciate the mellow flavor 
of Camels, says Sir Charles Kingsford-Smith, the transpacific-flyer 
in a recent interview. ' Camels re
fresh me so whea I'm fatigued," 
he contmucs, "and they are lo mild 
that I can smoke aoy numbcf with
out throwing dt nerves off key."
# Camels aie made from finer  
MORE EXPENSIVB TOBACCOS 
...Tufkiah and Dmeme... 
than any other popolar brand.
B.J REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY --\7lMK>a-S]tin,N;C.
P.S.T.ou .WABC-Columbia Netvock.:^

---------------------------------------------------

JE .ko . '*3*0*'':V
~^nireAHNGIE^ATAN, IlJSYrNOVEMBif W.. 35
Night School Section of Tartan ,
General, NewB-Editorial Com-1  
-mentFraternal Organizations
yraB 25 Caniegie Day 
Think and WdTk,Editorial
Appenring^n Thu Weeks 
Issue*
Think and Work
When .Imprinted In he&vy.black type on a white background, tbe -words THINK and "WORK ap- nenr.as the most forceful -pjonoByl-- aoie woras ol the Enguanianguage, So favorable was the Impression upon the heed of one of the largest corporations of the world that , he aSopted theBe -words as mottoes and snppJJed every branch sales -office with framed copies of each- word for display and Inspiration. THINK" and "WORK have be- come the pass-words of this organ* Izatlon. Even in the foreign of*. 'flees, where the business Is transacted in foreign languages, THINK and WORK are conspicuously hong, on tbe walls.
- Success Is assured where the mottoes, "THINK" and "WORK." ore faithfully applied. From the Smallest to the largest, both financially and structually, an organizations value lies in the available mental and man power. Cooperation with. resultant efficiency can . replace the existing unorganized and inefficient conditions in any institution only after considerable 1  thought and effort bave beei pended to provde a program whose , initial topics are "THINK . and WORK."
' Today, masBes are led because they refuse- to "THINK ai WORK.* Poltlclane roam ai plunder the country, and - cltlzei allow tbe smoke-screen of political party lines to drug their thoughts .and enervate their actloile. Preju- ' dice and,hatred ere bred, and many decjy the supposition of required effort without monetary compensation, while intellectual ^individuals allow ambiiloys Inferiors, to herd .masses to lazy and incapacitated '.humans and . preach untrue doc- : trines of. crime and ultimate misery-^ With "THINK' and WORK/ as, mottoes,  unhealthy conditions . could not exist.
 Inspiration towards constructive effort would naturally follow the - universal^ adoption of .these force- ^fulworda^as Individual mottoes by -'he jpl/of-.a^n^ the American : people are aerJoya'/in their en- ' deftvors to'cijete-a^htoplan nation, VTHlNK^aBd WORK should be- lom' ti-itlus 'of the reforma- tlon. The plight of the . present generation Is not yet determined, and it is not too late to inject re- ..^uitTtilevrsinadlcs. Let- t-hnse who ' seriously appreciate tbe joy of un- 'dertanlng and the .,- comfort ob- -talned from thought make use of the ft7allabl menB of teaching and . 'spreading the doctrlne of THINK
. imd WORK.
'^Seriously, every college student, should cherish the thought of bis Independence upon another guidance- Often, solicited .guidance Is . unwise, for the contributor might have been foiled by his ownJaxlty and therefore only heap burdens  npon the solicitor s shoulders. Let'B Tssolve to help ourselves to the
it
Accident Prevention
- Various organizations within the ; city have taken upon themselves tbe 'noble task of instituting a pro* v.gram of safety in driving during the month of November.. While on the surface this may appear to be: a difficult undertaking. It repre-.-- Bents the endeavors of those who  have come to realize tbe horrible r results .of. automobile accidents.
11 Many drivers have yet to experl ence the grim scene of a wreck where broken bodies with perhapsiB. twisted bone protruding from a : stocking or' a blood covered stump of -what was once'a leg or an arm, ate strewn over a road. Picture  tbe horror in seeing bodies terribly mutilated beyond recognition or sqneezed and broken Into murder? one shapes. .Stories of such unbe- .: lleyable Incidents . are. numberless,however most drivers have never  :;been brought face to face- with the ^ facta.and an intimate experience le -doubtless the cruelest preventaUve ;for recklessness.
-^{--Prevention of accidents In' No* - yember Is the aim of the campaign ivrattd-to-'thiB end the people, of this i- :clty-fire'being- enlisted.: In view of ^' the-faict'that. Pittsburgh has an eritable, t^cord in safety and to avoid :vC2iife'possibility of>n unfortunate ex- vCOerlence/drivers should he brought
m
llat
; 'Page-editad,'by'Night SjhoclInsti tut 1 of. Tcehm
'Editoria] Board. 
News' Editor -j CORNELIUS A.BLOCHINGER
-Associate Editors....^lOdredGerson Ednmnd Drenaen 
> '-\?>,William Wessely 
Staff:vB.:.X'La'hr-."' A. C. Grimm J:NlgtV; -W. . Vensei 
O'Davta -;  G. McCormack .. ^ip^iftftiiinpar.v E. E. McDonald
: Iliberhj Engraving Company!
/HALF-TONES ETCHINGS \ 
/.COLOR PROCESS PLATES. \ 
I - PHOTOGRAPHY. 1 
ICOIOB.NEWS ni COMMERCIAL.
Dance Held By 
Art School Is 
Great Success
Jim Bray Makes Initial 
Appearance at Arts 
. School Affair
.The 'Armistice dance held Novem. b^r il, la Thistle ball, by tbe night College of Fine Arts will probably go down in history as one of tbe most successful events ever staged by that college. Judging by the tendance at the affair, the student body must have taken advantage of the holiday for every department was well represented.
The decorations, which were the same as those used for the Military ball, were'of a militaristic nature and consisted of flags, shields and banners. Sixteen foreign countries represented by tbe various flags hung about tbe walls of This* Ue hall. Potted ferns completed the setting. The - dance program! which were of a novel nature, rep* mted cannons and added to the spirit of tbe occasion.
perhaps the most outstanding fea. ture of the evening was the appeor-' of Jimmy Bray. and. his orchestra for the first time at a night
of musicians functioned. Tbe ralttee made a SkeT choice- In the selection of Mr. Brays orchestra and It Is expected that the Night Student council will, again favor
Among the invited guests who
William Maurer Named Business Manager Of 
1935-36 T^histle
At the decent meeting' of the 
Night student .council, Mr. Anthony 
Lalll was appointed editor of. the 
night section of the 1935-36 Thistle, 
the Carnegie yearbook. Mr. Lalll Is 
registered In' tbe Architectural de
partment of -the Night College of Fine Arts. While he' bas been In this country but six years, he has shown remarkable progress during his matrlcuitation at Carnegie. Is addition to his fine scholastic ) ord, Mr. Lalll has also attained excellent activities record. He has been a member of the Night student council during the paBt year ell as during the current year and bas received Insignia keys for his activities work, in addition. Mr. Lalll has served as Secretary or the College of Fine Arts and at the present time is' serving as Trees-er of the college.
To assist Mr. Lalll. in his ne'w duties,-the Night student council appointed Mr. William Maurer SA Business manager of the Thistle. Mr. Maurer is registered in the College of Engineering where he holds the office of vice president. While this Is Mr. Maurers flrst year on .Council, he has taken part In activities for several years.. During the past year he was awarded a Night student council scholarship in recognition of his. activities and scholar tic records. Mr. Maurer Is a member of the Nu Slgma Alpha Iraterilty. '______________
Tis Said
dent who didnt attend the Arte dance.  -THAT you can expect come hlohpressure salesmanship from the: Niehf Thlst!s;ststf.THAT romance must have found a place on the Plaid staff.
home together these Friday 
evenings.THAT by the. time Lalll .fin- .Ishes the; article on the ltalo: 'Ethiopian conflict, the. War -will' be classed as anclent history. -
THAT a loud speaker has
THATv something, had:. Sally Lang 'an . flustered, the . other evening that she-forgot to bring her ticket to the Arts dance.THAT the Council will hold a turkey dance soon. 'Some stuffing?THAT If you think this Is Hooey, you didn't' even knevir
THAT the parking-'situation still neede Improvement, .. THAT the Arts' know their decorations.THAT the . Puppet'Is on* the Night Campus again.THAT a'lot.of good-neighbors on the campus are proudly displaying a feather In their
the Council room last Friday. Who got married or what havo
Campus 
Beauty Shoppe
BEAUTY CULTURE IN ALL; ITS BRANCHESMarcel, Shampoo, Finger Wave,
Campus Barber Shop
SERVICE and SATISFACTION 5176 Woodlawn Avenue MAyflowerd921 '
Anthony Lalli Li JZdit Night 
Section Of Carnegie Annual
Student Workers 
Names Requested
dent Council, requests that ail Btudent workers send tbelr names and addresses either to tbe Night Student Council or to any authorized
quest. Tbe mailing list, of the volunteer workers Is being : compiled- and will be
sentation ol an Insignia.) It is necessary to earn a specific number of,points during  the .scbooi'-year. In order to be. eligible', to receive
workdone for the college in
either by work done for the Council social affairs or by- work done for the Plaid. In order that'a student-may receive proper credit for points earned, U is essential tbat the Student - Council should have his or-her name and adCraig and Forbes 
Oakland :
For a Beal Delicious . 
Home-Cooked Heal
EAT AT '
Mary's Restaurant
327 South Craig Street
Near Forbes' Street 
Try Our Special 26c. Luncheon 
EAT WHERE YOUR FRIENDS
Peoples-. 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
. Member Federal Deposit v  Insurance Corporation .
Oakland. Branch : V Forbes and: Meyran" -
"THE OAKLAND 
BANK
1 IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM,
THISTLE EDITOR
NIGHT LIQHTS
Our talented sign-painter, Floyd Grimes, takes a quart of ice cream home to his wife every night he Is late ...
Johnny Stutz has changed his ambition1 from tbat of a ballet dancer to a mechanical engineer, with the permission of the engineers and to the relief of the ballet-dancers! Henry Shappacher and Leon Paule, night student in tbe Kiltie band, becoming more uneasy as tbe
go-by just to sit on those cold, stone benches in the Art school,and talk to his girl-friend ...
Professor Warners first year chemistry, class were treated to a fine example of scholarship last week when a big, black dog came In, went to the .back.of the class like all good students, and listened attentively to tbe lecture for ten minutes before Professor Ernst helped him out with his right foot. It takes a dog to enjoy a chemistry lecture! . . . Isabelle Benshofi, night arts, student, is a fashion model'at another art schooir
Highlights on the Arts . Dance . . -. -Willie Wesseley showed .np atthe-dance 5.minutes to l2,'Jnt ;o time for the 'GreatWalt2to the checkroom . . . Fashion note: Although velvet was . the .keynote of the . evening, many < thought "that bathing salts would have been mor appropriate . . . - Eugene .Herman thought the programs were the beat they- ever hadhe made them! . . k Nell Blochlnger just thought he would rest when the hot numbers were being played . .. . When the danc ended, Jimmy Fiaher -was seen brushing off the girl-friends suede shoes ...
Twenty^third 
Carnegie Day 
Plans Made
Students,  Facility and 
Alumni to Observe 
Founders Birth
PULITZER PRIZE 
WINNER SPEAKS
Carnegie Music Hall Place 
Of Annual Celebration 
On November 25
On November 25, tbe Carnegie 
Institute of Technology will cele
brate its  twenty-third annual Car
negie Day, which this year com
memorates the. one-hundredth anni
versary of the birth of Andrew Car
negie at Dunfermline in the Scot
tish Highlands. A procession of the student body and faculty will march to the Carnegie Music Hall where they will be Joined by the alumni. The program includes a group of bagplppers, a rendition of Scottish Airs by the Kiltie Band, and the singing of Auld Lang
Some Memories of the Founder.1 However, the principal speaker will be Douglass Soutball Freeman, editor of the' Richmond News-Leader and winner of the 1935 Pulitzer Prize for the best biography of tbe year, a of General Robert E. Lee. The symphony,, .orchestra of the Department of Music will play the Overture lo Euryantbe by Weber.The three honorary fraternities with highest Bcholastlc ranking will make their calls, and fraternity, sorority and dormitory trophies for scholarship will be awarded.Aftor the program at the Music Hall, hundredth anniversary features, "memorial Issue of the Tartan and four-colored cover programs containing short illustrated articles Concerning Andrew Carnegie and. bis former relations with the campus and students, will be distributed. This program will also tin a chronalogy of the outstanding events of the Institute since .the year 1900. .  . - 
Council Dance 
Will Be Held 
In Thistle Hall
Committee-To Announce: 
Selected Orchestra 
- In Next Issue
Arrangements are rap.idly . be
ing completed for the annual 
Thanksgiving recess dance which 
will be held .by the Night Student 
Council on November 29 In Thistle 
HalL
Russell 'Lahr, social chairman of 
the Council is in charge, of prepar
ations and will be aided by Ed
mund Drenson, assistant social chairman. While the committee has made no definite annoui garding the choice of.an orchestra for the event, several of the better known groups of musicians have beeu cuutHcted. Among the oi tras which are being consider the affair la that of Art Giles.
The decorations will confoi tbe spirit of Thanksgiving and the harvest season, in addition to the social chairman and bis assistant? several members of the Arts social committee will assist with the preparations and lend an artistic touch to the setting for the
lng 4rlll be in progreSB from 9 until
further their terplschorean ambi- tlonB. Since tbe dance will be held during the holiday vacation period, no classes will be scheduled and a large attendance really anticipated.T(ckeLs have been sent to the va- lous student workers and it is hoped that thoBe attending th dance will purchase ' their tickets
trying to earn points toward the Insignia award. The admission fee for tbe affair will be tho same os in - the past, that Is,dollar per couple.
Honest Prices Faithful Promises
FORBES CLEANING- & TAILORING CO.
4526 FORBES STREET Corner Craig MAyflower 9728
TYPEWRITERS $14.95 TO $75.00
Liberal Terms . . . Free Trial
RENT A TYPEWRITERFirst Three Months' Rental Applies to Purchase Price.
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
Stu^etoit Groups 
Make Plant Tour
On Saturday afternoon, tho group 
of students taking the course "Pow
er Plants, will make an Inspection 
trip through tbe Coliar and SprlDg* 
dole; power, plants.-Professor Thom
as G. Estep will be In charge' of-the 
trip.
The Colfax power plant 1A a-ma
jor unit of the Duquesne Light 
Company system and supplies pow
der to most of tbe Greater Pitts
burgh district The Springdale 
plant is the major unit In the West 
Penn Power Company system and supplies power to the majority of the communities in Western- Pennsylvania outside of Pittsburgh. Both of these plants are located along the Allegheny river near Springdale. They use steam turbine generators which are among the largest in use in this section of the country. The visit to these plants will afford the "Power Plants class an excellent opportunity to see how industry puts the theories of scholars to work.Similar inspection trips ' are arranged at various timeB throughout the- school year for students in many classes. -The cooperation of Industrial firms- In this district with Carnegie Tech, in the matter of Inspection trips, gives tbe students a broader and more practical viewpoint of their particular course than would - be possible by school work
Winner of Prize
Will Be Decided
By Public Vote
Of Interest to. those who w 
not as yet .visited the 1935 Cara* 
gle International exhibition 0 
palntlngB- ls' the^anno.nnceineEt 0 
the balloting period for the pinnt, prize. / As Is customary, the ner of the prize will be detemW by the votes or the public t balloting period which began N vember 17 will extend to DefsJIS ber 1. "Hj
The popular prize consists or aaf award of $200 made by the (Wj gie Institute to the artist work is chosen. The nami winner will be announced ber 2.. Only two artists, wlTo'dL during the yqet year, will be eluded from the contest. The; e Cbilde (Hassam, American, andsi
k UOF.OHFLY , PBkFLY F HLDP;'
DINE^a DANCE I
i the diaufi/ul
i VMT1935
o he ROOfSeu/alin - rBUZZY* K0UJ. dndAjsCWtts 
HAMMONCMMG
iTOEsm-a
SawE bMjt RtWtI
THE J3CLL TELrpHOUC COMPANY Of ^EiJNSYi VAMa
Mildness 
etter 1
C 19)). Ligstt ft Myxu ToaiccoCo
