JleB must be tt bbcrtytv 
say in-print whatever they 
havevin mind to say, pro^ided it wrongs no .?ne..
CHARLES A. DANA
TODAY'S EDITORIALS;
An Opportunity for . 
Eu man Service 
The Bell Tower 
Disgruntled Students . 
and Trdifferent Faculties
VOL. 29, NO, 6CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCT. 30, 1934
13 Freshmen 
Are Selected 
Class Heads
Senate Representatives 
Officiate at Elections 
For First Time
I
 Elections Are Held 
Under New Policy
William Carlson States 
That Elections Ran Off 
Smoothly, Tuesday
As a result of the election held 
^ last Tuesday In the College of Enfingeering, College of Fine Arls, and 
iMargaret Morrison, thirteen freshPainting and Design, president; Francis Tiegel, o[ the Department of Drama, vice-president; Jerome Kurtz, also of the Department o Drama, secretary; and Regis- J. Harrington, of the Department of Architecture, treasurer.College of Engineering: Ilaymon Zcigler, president: Walter Reid
Margaret Morrison: Louise race, of the Department of Household Economics, president; Elizabeth Lowrey. of the Secretarial Depart- jiit, -vice-president; Sara Hower, the Department of General Stud- accretary: Sylvia Ravlck, ofthe Department of Home Econom- . treasnrer;. Mary Belle Vllsack, the Department of Social Work, senate representative; and Joan nhn, of the Department of Gen- al Science, social chairman.
Senates Officiate at Polls The Senates of ttie various colleges officiated at the polls and the counting of the ballots for t
first I................ in the history pf theschool. This plan, supervised by the Student Council Chairman of Elections, -was in accordance with elections policy throughout the school.Itwas the Opinion ot 'William S. Carlson 36, chairman of. elections, that the-filectlons . -were .run. " much more smo'otftly 'under the ganlzed group of the Senates than they were heretofore.The vacancies in the offices the vice-presidency of the senior class in the College of Fine. Arts and Margaret Morrison were- not filled. Student Council declared offices permanently vacant.
D. U.s Will Hold 
Centennial Party
Local Organizations Invited 
To Party, Sat. Evening
at Williams College,.Williamstown, Mass., Delta Upsllon has expanded until it has placed chaptersC2Jni>n?es^/. m opt.. o-th e. coll?? si and universities on  K American continentThis week-end each chapter will sponsor somo.-forro oL.c^irme atlon. The Carnegie Chapter hold an open aouse for all i hers of ths faculty and student body on Saturday night, from. 8- till 12. The program will consist of radio dancing, display of historical objects-- -of -the. Carnesi Chapter, and moving pictures. R 
freshments will be served. N special invitation is necessary.It is hoped that every organiz; lion on the campus will be represented at the occasion. William G. Holiday 36, is In charge o all 
arrangements.
COUNCIL BRIEFS
At its last meeting Student Council took action on the following items of business:
Approved  the budget  of the Mens Glee Club with the understanding that the financial condiApproved the budget of Scabbard and Blade for the Annual Military Dali, November 9.' - - Approved the results of the Class
tlie recommendatlon-that the state aients added by the. faculty'"be corpovated into the constitution, and with the "understanding that the approval  may be revoked by Council after one year If advisable.Tabled Mr. Hays proposal, that tl^e treasurer of Student Council -aDposstc^ -sacii year-hr-the..* tiring treasurer and the Eiecutlr. Secretary rather than elected by vote of Council.^ Approved the appointments, of .Robert Robinson, Holland'- .Hill, veronica Kloos, James- Hughes*.
ii- -V ^
Bell Tower Discussion 
Renewed by 'C6unc.il
Idea for Tower First Conceived by Prof. Wurts; 
Charles F. Slater 35, Submits Winning Design; 
Definite Plans Will Be Formulated Soon
Last Tuesday evening, at the weekly meeting of Student 
Council, the feasibility of having a campus clock tower was dis
cussed. Charles F. Slater '35, Department of Architeeturc, prcted a brief history- of the proposed project, aud a letter of 
recommendation from Edmund J. McCormick 34, former chair
man of the committee for the erection oi a clock tower.The idea of having a clock tower#--------: --------------------------:-----------was first conceived in 192B at one of the Y. M- C. A. conclaves by Professor Wurts. During the following years there were many comments made on bis suggestion.
Ira Kuhn 33- made a definite proposal, of having a clock tower as planned last spring. Later he brought it to the attention.of Student Council who approved the
Committee^ 
For Arts Bl| 
A re Appointed
Arabian Cabaret, biave 
Market re Among y 
Danc Featurs 
-oject and incorporated it in the form of a recommendation to the 1933-34 Student Council:Appi
sisting of Rosemary Saxton 34 and Edmund/McQormick. The committee indicated that^the tower would symbolize the appreciation of the Btudents for what Andrew Carnegie presented to them.After consulting the Department of Architecture, It was found possible for a student, with faculty supervision, to design and draw working plans for a tower. As a result a nine-hour competition was held in that department. Se/eral designs were submitted as possibilities for a campus clock tower.The outstanding  designs were taken to Student Council and later to members of the Executive Board who. gave approval of the design executed by Charles Slater. Time was consumed in the study of details relative to the exact site, material, and other factors that
project.Clay Model Constructed In the spring of 1934 a preliminary clay mqdel of the proposed tower was constructed to create student enthusiasm.It was suggested by the student
students and built by the students. This would -afford many departments work for their students in .'theirv paitlculac.'.fleMs.Through' the reconimeridatibn of the past' chairman--. of' ..the clo.ck1 tower committee, " definite . plans
550 Alumni Back 
For Homecoming
The most successful alumni Homecoming celebration In the history of Carnegie was -held last Friday and Saturday.registration for - the 1
The total daysthan twice the number of Homecoming graduates in 1933.The majority of- the alumni registered at the Brown House headquarters on Friday. Miss Ruth Anderson,' alumni secretary, estimates that over 200 Homecomiris badges ware Riven
The large Increase
, at that
Friday attributed to a successful publicity campaign and tractive-Homecoming progriOn Saturday 150 more alumni signed' registration ' cards.'  Th6 
;alum200 .-----------------------------------tended the -Carnegie-Purdiie_ football game, 550 returning stadu- ates is.'the unofficial total for the 
j.934' Homecoming.
Pitt Students
Are Safety 
Valve Guests
Council Sanctions Croup; 
Forum Discussions 
Being Planned,
At Its meeting on. Thursday at 
11:30 in Industries 2S5-A, th Safety 
Valve, the hew student group for 
discussion of contemporary prob
lems, plans, ty have as guests a 
number of students from the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh.- 
Those who have been Invited are leaders of various student organizations on the Pitt' campus. . They are: Roger Hanson, chairman o! the executive committee of the Pitt Inquiry Forum; Homer Wadsworth, president of the Pitt Y. M. C.. A.; Leonard Marks, president of the Pitt Student-Faculty Association; and Wlnston*McConkey, member of the executive committee of the Pitt Branch of the T. M. C. A.Speak of Pitt Gi
with student groups andthemethods . of ,. organisation -which they have found 'successful.Pitt Inquiry- Forum Is' a group sembling In its purpose the newly- Organized Safety Valve here Carnegie.
ceiving Student Councils approval. A brief discussion of the changes in the constitution made by Stu(Contlnued on -Page: Sis)
Student Council 
Approves Budge*!
Robert Schell Is io Charge^ 
Of Decorations; Trea.
George Kitlr.edge
The announcement of the g< era! and sub-committees for the' Ball was made today by comi mittee chairman, James H. 'Mo Nau'ghton '35. The Ball, as pre^ iously announced, will be "Feb. 15.ilttee meeting will bej| held during the next week to makei additional plans. The motif for!Ball will be Arabian.; An Arabian Cabaret and a. slave market will be features of . the evening. The budget for the Ball been approved by Student';Council and arrangements ii being made for securing an qrches^IntsA list of the newly appointed- ammittees with their chairmen- follows: general chairman, James;
 'rations, RobertSchell, chairman. Winfield Horner, iSdward Rigg,*' William Garrity,' Thomas Warden, Clarinda Perrot: Gratlen Giesny, Leonore Blselnger, Catherine Wiegel, Julian Calvert; Construction, Robert Bright, chair- m, James Hughes, Will;-----man. K -bloom,  ind William Cannon Design: Frederick Crocker, chaii man, Dari Taylor, Francis Church, Dane Morgan, Isabel Shelton. . Social: Julian Von derLancken, chairman, Caroline Fuller, Ruth Mc- Bane, Betty SchTack,'- Carl Do: Publicity: Regis Joyce, OliveWelsh. Posters: Albert Jenkins, Madolin Vautrinot. Alumnae: Evelyn Lyle, chairman, Benjamin Yaffee, Sara Scott, Robert Schmertz, Vernon Purnell, Catherine Schuman, and Evelyn Gambles Tickets: Wilfred  Slocum, chali - (Continued .On Page Four)
Princeton 
Prof. Speaks
Electrical Precipitation 
Of Dust Is Topic
Dr. Rudolf Ladenburg,' research professor of Physics at. Princeton University will'give a public lecture Friday at 6:30 p. m. In the 6tudio-. The subject of his ad- wlll be Electrical Prccipltato the Congress of Nuclear Physics and the Solid State held at Cambridge and. London during the first
search; has ' contributed - much to the development of practical equipment for the precipitation of dust and smoke in manufacturing and industry. The lecture will be il- lU5tr-2&d wlth.lgntern siM^i.ahow-. ing industrial '.applications of electrical precipitation.Dr. Ladenburg is also well knoJu other, fields oi physics.. He has made measurements of the optical constants ot gases.  .
Cwens to Hold
Tea Dance Wed.
Cwens, . TvOujen's sophomore honorary, will hold a Hallowe'en tea dance In Thistle Hall tomorrow, from 4:00 to 6:00.Lee Rivers orchestra will furnish the music for this has play the Edgewood and Chartlers
be the first appearance of the orchestra on the Carnegie campus this year.A novel feature of the- dance will be the masks which will be given out nt the door. The prlco of
may lie obtained from any the Cwens or Scimitars. Catherine WIegle 37, so- . dal chairman, will be In charge of all plans for the
Thistle Editor 
Adds Five to 
Editorial Stall
Kloos Appointed Senior 
Editor; Boland Hill 
Designs Book
Robert Robson 
Made Art Editor
Student Radio 
Transceiver 
Is Completed
W8CIT, Proposed Call, 
Is Now Assigned 
To C.I.T. Grad.
The radio built this summer by Carnegie students in room 401 ot the Collego of Engineering Is an
to . get the special call letter fWSCIT which have already been assigned to a station operated by former Carnegie : student He is willing, however, to give up tho call letters if the exchang legally be made.
Professor Hower, Spom 
Under the guidance of M,r. Wil*, Phillip Morrison 36, Frank'R. Prescott. 36 Robert A. McConnell *2&, Gebrge-w. ''Nagel  30;- liam RaBpet '36, spent many hours durlng.thelr summer vacation building the broadcasting set The cooperation of Colonel Fairley, Mr. Burrey; Professor Work, and others was instrumental In hastening the completion .of the enterprise.
Used for Research
The station will be used for search in short wave transmission and rception, and In the functioning of instruments used In the set. The receiver in tests has proven Itself perfect and the Department of Physics is confident that sages can be sent to and received from, any part of the world if mospberlc conditions are favorable.When used as a telegraph instrument, higher power, and as a result, greater range will be available than when used as a phone. Interference from approximately. 800 Diatters somewhat, bnt this difficulty was ironed out.- - /There are about twenty-five thirty licensed amateur operators
negie, as well as most of the other major colleges and universities, now operates a short- mitter. They comprlse.hut a_sma]l
Honorary Cadet Officers:; Elected;;
To Be Presented at Military Ball
Veronica A. Kloos 35 
Is Elected Honorary 
Cadet Colonel
Veronica A. Kloos 35, Depart; 
ment' of Secretarial Studies, was 
proclaimed Honorary Cadet Coll.on^l after.an exciting election last 
Friday.:.Official.notice of,.the_election_reI suits was disclosed by Neal L. 
Vinson '35, Captain of the Scabbard 
and Blade society. In commenting 
upon the election results, Mr. Vin
son stated Miss Kloos has i;eceiv.ed the highest honors the Military 
Department can bestow upon, a se^. 
nior. woman. Together with.^the 
R.- O. T. C. Colonel she will fead 
[ the grand march .at the. Military, 
Ball. When informed of her election as Honorarv Colonel Miss Kloos exclaimed, "I cant understand it; Im simply overwhelmed.  Mary F. Nichols and Marie A. Mcttpr placed second and third In the voting. Thev will receive commissions as Majors. Miss Nichols is the Major , of the .flrst battalion I while Miss Motter will answer.'All. present -for. the  second battalion..Honorary .Captains ,were .electedI for each > of the Jle O T C , compunin. The captiin of
.Tartan Photo by Miller. . 
Left to rightRuth Schmelz, Elizabeth Lowrey, Madolin Vautrinot, 
Mary Nichols, Veronica Kloos, Marie Motter,.Mary Jane Atkinson, Lois 
Conley, and Jean Sloarie, -;'.r ,
be presented' with- commissions
cJ^Ruth Schmelz; . Company D.
The Hcmor*r> Cadt Officers will
rht- the evening of..the- Milt, all. At the same time Scatv- -jand. Slade vwlil-'- call.*.junior^
Spitanys Orchestra 
Is Engaged for 
Military Ball
gaged , for the Annual Military Ball on November 9. The committee charge of th band arrangements has stated that this selection is final. ,.' Spit?Jri? ssas. first! heard.In.. PUis. hurgh last year when he supplied the.muslc for the University of Pittsburgh Military Ball.
Prevjous engagements of tlv hand include stop-overs at the CleO' non Ballroom in Cleveland, the Lo tiis Garden and Station WTAM, National ' Broadcasting Company v 
in Cleveland.
.Tickets for the Ball will go. $ale this treek and may be secured from Scabban Blad rer>ib< and at the Y- office In Industries Building. Clyde Gischel. '35, publicity and ticket manager ' of the Ball, states that there will be abso' lutely' so more, than 200 . tickets sold. This . limitation ' has \ been1 jSTeed.upc'&.'to..alleviate...cri>.F^Jn,f. in-Thietle.Hall. '. The Military Ball is strictly formal.'- Full-diress tuxedos, and R. 0. .T: C'.~unIforms will-be worn. T r.commltteavwisheB to dispel any ronepu^ Idea that the "Ball is a mitand Bn1 re to Ils n cmhcrnhlp ^Urj^fuQ Uuu uttl>
James B. Hughes, Clifton 
P. Boutelle, Are Other 
Members of Stall
stall appointments to Uio Editorial Board of the 1935 Thistle.were made during tho.paat reek by editor'Jumes M. Latta '36. The now mombers of the staff ore Robert S. Robson '36, J. Roland Hill 30. Veronica A. BlmmJ 35, James B. Hughes *37, and Clifton Boutelle '36. All appointments have been sanctioned by tho Student Council.Robert S. Robson Is tlie 193S He ie nt of rand Design. He also served  art slafT of tho Thistle last ir. He is a frequent contributor the Tartan and Iho Puppet, /eronlca A. Kloos, Doparlmont of. Secretarial Studies, will hold position of senior editor. She one of the assisting editors of the 15134 yearbook and is a member of Alpha Chi Alpha, womous journalistic honorary society.James B. Hughes. Department of Architecture, is the sports rdi- lor. All campus athletic activities ill lie handled by his department.
Mich. Clifton P. Boutella will be In charge of all publicity in nectlon with the Thistle. He junior .editor of the Tartan am been connected with-campus.publications/. for. .the last; two years.
Amendment 
Is Proposed
Appointment of Treas. 
Suggested by Hays
It has been proposed by Clar Y. Hays 35, treasurer of Student Council, that all incoming treasurers be chosen by appointment rAther thau by election as Is done at the present time. The present method of selecting incoming treasurers is done by a majority, vote of the members of Student Council, upon the recommendation of the outgoing treasurer.Mr. Hays arrived at this conclusion because of the fact that he and Mr. Rollln V. Davis, Executive Secretary of Student Council, are the only ones who come Into actual contact .with the junior treasurers, and therefore are in a better position to judge who Is better fitted for the job than the members of; Council. Mr. Hays' proposition calls for -the appointment of all treasurers to be made by the treas- 'Q^5^'an.^*th^'*fi*.Bcut^v^r-SecrotiTy, of Student Council.Inasmuch as It is necessary that all amendments - to the constitution of Student Couhcir'inuat rest one week before being acted upon, dlscusslon of the proposal has been postponed until tonights- meeting of Council. It Is expected that a definite decision upon the suggestion.will be. reached by that time.
Jiimmy Earles Band 
Plays for Firjst Annual 
EngineeringDanceFri.
L. Boger Burke Heads 
Committee; Price \ 
Is $1.00 Couple
Affair Is New 
Social Feature
Dr. W. Jones 
Talks At Theta
Tau Banquet
Fraternity Celebrates 
Dale of Founding 
at Local Hotel
Tbela Tau, national engineering 
fraternity, will hold., a banquet 
the Penn-Llncoln Hotel Uits ev 
ing ot 6:30. Dr. W. N. Jonos of 
Carnegie, and Dr. E. A. Holbrook, 
Dean of Engineering of the Univorslty of Pittsburgh will be guests 
Qt the banquet, held in commem
oration of Founders Day. Dr. 
Jones, speaker of the evoning, will discuss-' th "Relation of Professional Fraternities to Uio Profesnlly in 1904 at .the University .of Minnesota, by. Melvin L. Vlnal, R J, Schrader, W, Murray Lewis, and Isaac/B. Hanks, the fraternity had as- Its purpose the development and maintenance of a high standard of professional: interest among lie members, as well as their union into a strong band of fraternal fellowship. The fraternity Is a member of the Professional Interfrater- nlty Council and has now extended Its interests to 22 chapters.
ent faculty adviser, Professor j. M. Daniels Is a member of the. executive council. Upperclassmen will
ed on a plate on the plaque In the foyer of the Administration Building. These awards, begun by the local chapter In 1932, have been made to Sidney Krasik .32, Department of Electrical Engineering; Arch Matteson *33, Department of
R. P. Hanna, regent ; ,w. J. Brown, vice-reg&m-;
E. C. Crede, corresponding secretary;. and Professor J. M. Daniels, treasurer.F1R-ESHMA- flEPORTERS MEET
The Tartan's journalism, class will-meet tomorrow afternoon at 4:30 in Room 106 Arts Roy Mln&, managing editor, will discuss Writing the Lead.-
Event Inaugurated to Create 
More Friendly Attitude 
Among Depts.
Jimmy Earlo and his orcbostra have been selected to play for the first annual Engineering Dance to be held in Thistle Hall, Friday, 
fled and friendly attitude among'... the various departments of the En-; glneerlng College, a new featuro n the Carnegie social calendar 111 be inaugurated this Friday' voning in the form of tho First ;
it has been apparent for sometime that the englneors needed some so^' clal function of their own. With - this in mind, a general comraltteo . under the chairmanship of L.' Itoirer Burke SC, has been eelactcd to carry out these plans.
Assisting Mr. Burke are Thomas W. Dana. Jr. *36,' Department ot Electrical Engineering: WilllfinrA- Clements, Jr. 35, Department ot Works Mnnagoinent, and Thurman i R. Crott '35. Department of Induslocal bands, this committee choso Jimmy Eavic and his elevon-pieco- orcheatra to play for tho inaugural dance. This orchestra is not an innovation on tlie Carnegie campus having played nt several nigh{  school functions, and at the Com*, blued Glee Club Dance last spring: Jimmy Earle and his orchestra, have played on several occasions during the summnr at the flrotto; Y Thistle Hall will be appropriately decorated with prominont e-/'- glneering designs, and the commit- ', lee. has arranged for new. Ughtlng v. arrangements. Tickets, are on;0ato"; In thb "Y1' offlc6; or may bo pur*:
Student Advisors in Other Colleges 
Are Contacted in Tartn Campaign
COMING EVENTS \
Wednesday'4:00Cwen Tea DanceTblstle Hall, _10:00Freshman ' Dorm Girls Halloween PartyLaurel Hall. 
Thursday11:30Safety Valve Meeting
Women's Club Room.8:15Molecular Physics Colloquium, Dr. Rudolph Ladenburs. guest speakerE. H. 113.  Friday12:30W. A. A. Meeting.8:30-Public Lecture, Dr. Rudolf  Ladenburg, . Electrical Precipitation of DustStudio, Administration Hall,9:00Engineering BallThistle- Hail.- :..............Saturday2:15N. Y. T7.-Carnegie Football Game Broadcast  Brown House.9:00Alpha Phi Omega Smoker
1:30Tau Beta Pi Interviews Dean of Men's Office.3:00Women's Dorm. . Council Tea'-Cedar. Mellon.. Forbes Hall
Reports on Personnel Work 
At Purdue, Ohio State. 
Yale Are. Solicited
nnel advisory group, letters have been sent to a number of those universities and colleges wlievy such a service is. organized and functioning.
....With. ccBGidor-abl nature being conducted and studied at representative schools, the Tartan plans to sccure reports practical benefits to be derived from personnel worn, uu college campuses.
Among those schools which
State University.The Ohio UniveVsity Press, Co.|4wubue; publishes a- booklet- con taining a selected list, of' case studies which set forth some ot tho student problems solved by the personnel officers at Ohio State. Its title is. Reports on Personnel Work with Students by Luella C.
1>r^S soine'colleges 'do'iiot publish the results of their personnel work-in this planner and prefer not to do it with any open publicity, the Tartan expects to get general reports on .the 'nature and results oi. thelr.-worK
Student Directory 
Is on Sa le To day
Publication to Be Sold in All: 
Schools; Price 85 Cents
completed, go on- sale '
The directory sells for thirty-five1; cents.
Heretofore, the TrI-Pub]lcatIonff ; Staff has had Its salesmen canvass- the campus In selling the direc- .- lories. This year, however, the. staff salesmen will be stationed at. desks in the coTrldors of the various buildings. It Is believed that ' this system will greatly facilitate the distribution- of the publications.- ..... student directory
;tor of tIng.
The Student Directory contains , a great deal of-information concerning the student body as .- a::.ltS-ae6!vitiS;>'n sodated .with the activities.Between its covers the director? : lists the name of every student en*  rollod- at Carneslci hls^home ad*v dress, school address, telephone.; number, deparUnent, and class.;. Also included within Its pages rJfL; a compute list ot campus activities and organizations and the various fraternities, together with tlvfe roster ot eacti:  The dOttMtOty'' and fraternity telephone number Is also to be listed.The. Carnegie Student Directory is perhaps one of the m.ost .usefuX. pubiica'tions on the campus! It te ; particularly-useful during the rushing seasons of the various school societies.- It is also very helpfuldent Directory, the years worft^ot '' the Tri-Publications Staff- Is' brought to a close. The members^ ot the staff Include the following:' Thomas W. Dana 35, editor:in-\ chief; Clyde S. Gischel '35, business manager; Ligia Squitlerl 35,..:
Metallurgical Graduate . 
Continues Study Here 1
Dr. Howard A'. Smith, graduate.:.; of the University of Illinois,'-lias:'.; been -awarded his second fellowv: ship so that he may continue hiS"-. researches on Kinetics of Rfea&c tiona -in the Solid State In the.i: metal;, research laboratory at^CSi^S negie Institute of Technology.1' "
Ph. D. in 1931 at the University'^!''; Illinois. In July, -1933, he awarded a fellowship by the.^Tas ~ i Councilman-,organ-,,- by the iieic^elefter'_ . _ . _ permit fuTther study-in special scientific fields: by who have a FbThe research work.of-Mj. Smith;: deals with the fundamentals of .the ' heat' treatment of metals

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. OCTOBER 30, 193*
Science Group 
^lolds Exhibit
iul Meeting Planned 
For December 27
ihedale Lectores
shibition Centers Around | 
Science in Industry
The A=er:c2n Association for the Ad-rauearnest of Science wiJl fcold Its annual meeting and exhibition, in Pittsburgh from December Z1 to January 4 at the Melton Institute of Industrial Research, BelleSeld and Fifth Avenues.Dr. F. C. Brown, of the Smith-1 sonian Institute in Washington, D. is directing 'Mbits, which - * about the ap; to industry. with particular
subjects in the j physical sciences, large biological displays, and exhibits of Tecent advancements in other sciences, es pecially physics.Research Work Exhibited These exhibits Include the work of colleges and research institutions, the displays of commercial bouses and of publishers of re- 'search reference textbooks, and  the work of secondary school science departments. The exhibition will occupy the third floor of the Mellon Institute. Recent con- Tentions of the A. A- A. S. have reognized the growing importance of the exhibition, and it if? predicted that the present one -will be the most extensive and instructive yet shown.In addition to the exhibition, the convention will conduct general sessions for lectures and reports of interest to all the delegates, and
discoveries and current problems in the various branches of science.- from physics aDd mathematics, to psychology and the social and ecoAbout -4,000 scientists from all parts of the United States and Canada are expected at the con- Tentlon, as well as a large number of . manufactured, scientists, and .-.teachers from the neighborhood of Pittsburgh.Grondahl Is Chairman - The local committee in charge of the convention consists of L. O. Grondahl, chairman, who is director of research for the Union Switch and Signal Company; Andrew AvLnoff, director of Carnegie Museum; H. S. Coleman, assistant / director, of Mellon Institute of In- dustrlal Research; F. C, Frary, director of research .for the Aluminas) Company cf America; R. T. Hance. head of .the Department of> Zoology, University of Pittsburgh:; S. 51. Kintner, vice-president of the ...Westlnghouse' Electric and Manufacturing Company, and W. B. Spellmire, manager of the General- Electric Company, Pittsburgh.'. Many social events have been planned for those attending the 'conference. They include dinners, concerts teas, and tours of educa- tional and Industrial jnciHutions. The A. A_ A.S. has an enrollment .of approximately 19,000 members, there being 139 officially associated -organizations, and 101 officially af- -flliated' groups which take part in
W.A.A. Tennis Court 
. Will Be Ready Soon
'Brown house will be ready for i "within the next few -weeks. AfLer { several years of planning for the ; conrt, the women how have a court : off their own which can be used all year because of the cement door.
eourt'-and a-apace will be cleared
for ii outdoor'<
'
Dr. John A. 
S. Hesztheiyi, 
HaJl last Frida 
the address on 
gift of the late
f. Inset, Dean Tarbell, 
the occasion. The por 
Robert C. Hall.
Dean Says Extra-Curriculum 
Must Follow Present Trends
Advises That Curriculum] 
And Extra-Curriculum 
Should be One
Dean Thyrea W. Amos; dean of 
omen at the TTniverFlty pf Pitts
burgh. delivered a comprelensi 
and vital address on The Adva 
tages of Extra-Curricular Actii 
ties" at the annual conference - 
the Womens Intercollegiate A
TODAY|sodation for Student Go-weeks ago. What she had however, pertained stronglv U | problems of both men and womer i students. For this reason a pox of Miss Amos's speech is re
individual students on the can The remainder of the speech will appear In subsequent issues ol the Tartan.
-uCever in the world have con- rentionB. of students and deans been so challenged as they spending their time > feelvery responsible in opening hie
wont let us teach you as adults. The tread today is that we shall train yon to be adults In college, to go' out into the adult world. You suddenly find yourself dealing with ! adolescent minds, bees' lain degree parents a: that they are too adolescent to handle' their children- The train- of adulthood and to adulthood. The point I would emphasize is to develop the Individual In terms of his needs and their Importance.
' 'The assumption with regard to extra-curricular activities is that they are apart from this life and are to fill leisure time. 1 dont | know what leisure lime students but thats the idea. There great many people who say | students must be busy outside of class, and it has been allowed for to develop by the trial and method, if only John Dewey knew how the idea6 he released had been turned into negative had be realized how stupidly I oeople would regard his ideas!y students sav, lets run selves; we dont want ad- want to do it just as we
I PI AYS FOR EWCilSEERING. DANCE |
when the first t
aave used that If I pick up this spoon and say this I side is knowledge and the back is e bothered. the art sideI 6ay all knowledge isThe new trend with regard to ! science; we are bound to forget extra-curricular activities is that ! that all knowledge is one and has the curriculum, rightly interpreted, j two phases. All education that we and the ertra-curriculum, rightly | can crowd together consists of interpreted, are one; and there is ! academic subjects and the other so difference between values of one ! side, that which is not intimately and values of the other, if each is connected with academic but is interpreted individually according just as intimately connected with to the individual's own personality, the life of th individual _____
Y Plans Chess, 
Ping Pong Games
Team Elimination Tourney 
Is Already Under "Way
^Announcement comes, from Uje 
Y. ^ C. A. Cabinet that chess and 
ping pong teams will be organize 
among interested members of the Carnegie student body. An ellml. nation tournament to discover who are the best chess players Is already under way.
It was also announced that it fa yet too late to enter the touri
lu the base.
Y. JL C. A. club dormitory club' xnent of Sccbell Hall.
Iu both the chess and ping pong 
who reach mprise the it Carnegie
the semi-finals will c team which will rppresi in future competitloi 
present time, negotiations are b* ing made to arrange games with local high school teams. If enthn.
University of Pittsburgh and D*
ASTRONOMY.
Portrait of Uncle John 
Brashear Unveiled Friday
Dean Tarbell Speaks of Vigorous, Devoted Work 
Of Fortner Carnegie Trustee; Was Friend 
Of All Students; Gave Many Lectures
"Uncle John Brashear has i claim his place on the walls of I burgh Administration Hall. Last Friday, after the annual presentation of a memorial plate from the last grad-ting class, his portrait 
man, who worked in Pitts-1 as a millwright for roa: devoted much of his lire (he study of stars and the maki:ed many I
veiled.ed honors during his li ie was elected to | scientific societies, receive eral honorary degrees, and ;
AFTER EVERY CLASS 
IT RINGS THE BELL!
ingne,change to Prii
"Stars Fell on Alabama'Guest Stars Mildred Cox  original plant
Miriam Landgrafvocal soloist.
If YOUR. PIPE unkindly bit 
Albert. "P.A."isblendedbya 
trace of "bite. Try a cm youisel You will like the mild, 
mellow flavor of the top-quality tobaccos. You will like is 
delightful fragrance. Briefly, you will like Ptince Albert.
2Honra yCdaHe
generation of students. To those wbo knew him, it will mean a personality, warmly -remembered "because of his great gift for friendship, his Movable character, his unselfish service for others, and his contagiously bright and inspiring outlook on life.
Long With Carnegie 
Few people know of Dr. Bra- shears close connection with Carnegie. He was one of the three members of the original trustees committee, appointed in 1901 to determine the plan and scope of Andrew Carnegie'6 newest benefaction, Carnegie Institute of Techafter his appointment to this board. Dr. Brashear worked vigorously and devotedly for the Interests of Carnegie. For a. long time be served on the committee that i lected most of the extensive U oratory and shop equipment m
GLEE CLUB ISSUES CALL
Men who are interested in glei club work and who sing first teno: or second bass, are requested to at tend the regular rehearsals of the
Philadelphia Cian..........
The Philadelphia Carnegie Alumr at the Hotel Adelpfaia Saturday, -November 10,- after the Carnegie* Temple game. Any friends of the members of visiting alumni from out-of-town wbo are in Philadelphia for the game are especially urged, to attend the party and be- " come better acquainted with their local clan members.
Buddy'1 Overend, Graduate Man*- ager of Athletics and Alumni Ex- : ecutive Secretary, will be presout to give the gathering the latest Vii -irem the campus. Ter -Eamsdell, Carnegies Drst football j /.coach, and a famous United Stales Olympic team star, will be at the .Ydlniter-dance. He has promised to describe the football team and its .' training in 1909. Howard Harpster . and .Don Lovcwcll -will give some Inside news about the present team :.,;and Ite members.
vk: Tbe. entertainment will Include floor show of fourteen acts presented by Jack Lynch and his Cafe ery Revue, with Milton Doug- i master of ceremonies. Mem- tfce entertainment commit biiiSers* of ttie Womens  serve aa hosts and furnishing: information i:tOiguestf; and out-of-town alumni, ^Thc. assessment . for the dinner- or Informal, is $1.90. ..-dance, which Mil be either formal
Womens Clan New 
i.<;/.The Philadelphia Carnegie Wo- Clan met 'on -Saturday,- Oct. :'-30,-;:*nd elected the following' of:, icerti'ifortheyearlSSi^iB: Mrs. i^y^b^p^.Smfth^E^erAndery^iiSr
'SEITR ER L;v-'.bers'pf'  BJAOO EDH N.TED
.man (Horiense. Purdy M23) vice president; and' R. Leah Rothaus| M28, secretary-lreasurer.
The Womens Clan will pr< a fifty-dollar donation to Margaret Morrison. Scholarship] Fund during the course of this winter. The Womens Clan ex-1 presses a hearty welcome to negie Alumnae in and around I Philadelphia and invites them to
dents, graduates of the Department
they will begin a concert tour of twenty weeks. 
-Music Alumni Tour Country  Louis Crowder 30, pianist, his wi.f, . .the. former hci)le. .QurreJJ. accompanist and Katherine
fifty to a hundred given during the winter season in various parts of North and South Carolina.
This series of concerts Is to be presented under the same management as that of the North Carolina
Symphony . Orchestra. In Winstonsymphony.Mr. Crowder, who played last week for the Presidents- Day observance of the Tuesday Musical Club, was the winner. of that or- awaru'toT 1930-31.-Another Carnegie alumnae, Ma1D4,- IJ I^J Y LDAnR EA, mDa1DOB
governor of Pennsylvania.
Lectures Were Popular 
"Every year groups of students 
invited him to the campus that they might listen to his extremely popular talks on the stars, on light and colors, and more particularly
place .Things. 'This illustrated address was often accompanied by interesting experiments conducted f Professor Hower of the faculty.
"During the first twenty years ! our history,1' as Dean Tarbell expressed it, no friend of this institution was more affectionately
Robert C. Hall of Pittsburgh, and was paint I ed by the Hungarian artist, Alex under Samuel Keszthelyi, at on< time an instructor in the College of Fine Arts. It was unveiled by Miss Martha Hoyt, wbo was long assostalled Its isist acaedmic year.
West Virginia High School ;n returning by bus from Saturday, got out and
i from their burning home.
The Varsity News of Detroit University cajis the Duijaesce Duk<I the NIGHT RAIDERS.
13F3Fr3e
| Every Ddy . . .Every 
Week I. . THE BEST\ 
\ Entertainment Value in 
Oakland and Environs!
I LOWER PRICES

---------------------------------------------------

IffBnaan
THE ABNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1934
THE 
TUESDAY 
QUARTERBACK 
 
BY JERRY HANSON
P
JUPITER PLUVIUS REFUSES TO RELENT it would seem,, for he 
certainly didnt do much to help the attendance to what started out like 
a mighty fine game. However, we can't blamt the rain gods foi 
manner In which the Boilermakers neatly folded the Plaid In Satur
days Homecoming blow-up. ' 
The Tartan grldmen looked good for the first halfthey do that 
habituallybut when Purdue put on the steam and burst out with the 
power that makes the Boilermakers strong contenders In the Big Ten 
Circle, the Scotch machine kinda sighed and settled down'in resigns^tlon.
['I Once the steam was up, the Plaid could do little to cover It, and 
rithinge started popping pretty fast.
^BLOCKING AND TACKLING WERE WEAK'points In the Tartan game 
J$egainst Purdue, and the boys could stand a lot of practice and coach
ing on these points. I saw a coupla nice white jerseys well-preserved 
lafter several minutes of playthats one way of telling whether or not 
s3a man's been into'the thick of the scrap.
Good old Joe was markedly the star again. His hoots are improv
ing from week to week, and hes doing darned well In the quarterback 
iositlon. He uses his head plenty, and his natural attributes go to 
a reliable man in anybodys game. Chyczewskl played 
[dandy game. Frank Is the Burzlo type guard, and be shows promise of 
"developing Into a brilliant player. He has two more years' to make 
^good lus and with the start he's Bhown already, his future looks pretty 
bright. And the same goes for Freddy Lehman. That boy is air full
backno baby about it. Freddy did a lot of. tackling in the second 
'hair against Purdue, and he was roost consistent In gaining yardage.
For the outstanding example of reliability I give you Cliff Doloway. 
[Under the handicap of a leg injured In the Notre Dame game, Cliff 
played the entire gome and gave the usual excellent account of ltli 
aolt Doloway always puts out everything lie haswhich is plenty 
and is really the only consistently good player on the Tartan squad. 
He'll, be very difficult to replace neat year.
The Plaid offensive showed practically nothing, as a glance at the. 
statistics of the game will show, with net yardage from scrimmage to
ll taled at forty-Blx. The boys might have done better to pass moro.
j WORTHY OF COMMENT Is the fact that the slate or Carnegie peni altles has been kept unusually clean this year. Last year the number 
| of offsides, etc., was appalling.
ALL INDICATIONS WOULD PLACE Carnegie in a pretty good posibounce the jinx at N. Y. U. next Saturday, aB far as the VioJ concerned. Carnegie has faced New . York University for sev
eral years with the odds In favor of the Plaid, but something has al
ways turned up to give the Violet power to cut down whatever edge 
them. ^ This will be about the last chance the Scots will 
have to bring home a pound or two of the breakfast order of salted pig, 
and ye optimistic scribe is going to try to make the trip over to digest 
portion of it on the spot.
ST. MARYS, TEXAS TECH, SOUTHERN METHODISTS/ and Callforare a few western teams, one of. which might find itself on the Tar
tan ehedtii aomt day. if we are to pay any heed to demon gossip. 
Suicide Is a strong word, but those teams are matches for the 
mightiest, and aftor- a long, trip out to meet them. Lord knows what 
they would do to an unwary Invader, especially when the caliber of the 
latter Is unestabllshed. Beware,' eez I. - "  n
SOMEONE WAS HEARD TO REMARK Uiat all the training the Plebes 
have been having has been ^fundamentalstackling, etc. This was in 
application to the statement in this column that the freshmen were 
weak on the self-same score. All I can say Is. that any accusation may 
accordingly be turned Into an admission.
The frosh are still being used mainly as bait for the varsity. They 
may bare games with West Virginia,' Pennsylvania State Prison, and 
Uuquesne; It Is all very Indefinite.___________________________________
Outlook of Tartans Poor; - )
Still Face Strong Teams
j Templir Follows N. Y. 17.; 
Dukes, Pitt Finish 
Rest of Season
A week from this coming Saturday the "Ladles . from Hell go 
forth to Philadelphia to tangle 
Wifi Pop .Wanter's - Temple ,ieanu 
The Owls have been moving along 
smoothly all season, adding an
other__victory -last Saturday Jay.
romping oyer a bewildered Marquette eleven, 28 to 6. The Marquette score came on a blocked hick while the Owls moved powerfully to score a touchdown in every period and registering every, extra point from the accurate "toe of Smukler. Tetnple has shown lots of power and has been.anxious to score a victory over the TartanB since the series , began. -
Duqueane has shown much Improvement as /the season has moved on. Friday night they took things In band and defeated the University of Detroit Titans in a emooth working game. The Dukee had^things their own way, having shown great . possibilities and spirit. The coaching is apparently doing them no harm as their block-, ing Is good and smart quarterbacking is keeping them moving. Du- quesne has a strong holding ability and can turn on the works when necessary. This may prove fatal to the' Plttia vrtih''their propefialty; 
for last- half .weakening/' The. Hill* toppersare.proud of their football reputation and- are anxious' to -tali' prove by overwhelming Carnegie in the local .battle.
Pitt came -b^ck. to start another winning atreftlt.'by :radng through Westminster.-kt will Jn a breather.The_____of O to O does'not-'giveeal idea of the Panther strength Jock Sutherland puBhd in all. serves W -keetf th; score
the Pitt lads may. not be-too .tough for the Tartans;  However, It is Very unlikely, that'Pitt-will drop a game to theplald as. .they-.usually Mjoy. -thel? --ThaEk&BirtGS'.dicoer-' more after defeating the Skibos.
h
C. S. EDM AN
PRINTER "1 6470 Monitor Street
Womens A thletics
------by------
MARGIE GREEN
This week marks the wind-up of 
our most .popular sports, hockey 
and archery. I- have ray doubts 
about either ' of ' the ' upperclaas 
hockey teams winning .from the 
clever, plebes, but the former must maintain llwtr prestige, so;-fresip- ed for a strug edule will be p bulletin'boards.
Claire Frederick has/ arranged Friday at 2:30 for the archery tournament. Girls... with the ten highest scores of the season -will participate, shooting one-round at 30 yards and one at 40, with thirty
lines must be played by girls working for fifty points. The smoothies making, the team will receive 100 points and be entered In the tour nament, which begins December The Murray Beacon Alleys ha,ye agreed to let us bowl every schtiol'dey. Everyone Interested In bowling .Is requested to be. at the meeting in Margaret Morrison at 12:30,. Thursday, room 102. '
Tm hoping to see everyone' at the hike-Saturday. - Put *on>your old clothesand meet us . at the Highland Park car. barns at 9:30 a. m., to hike along the new boulevard overlooking the  Allegheny.' A lunch wlll be supplied in case you; need.added attraction. ...
Tartans Face Weakened Violet Jinx in New York
Entire Team 
Travels East
Harpster Machine Hopes 
Hoodoo Will Break
Teams Balanced
Violets Weak, Tartans Very 
Determined Club
potent jinx that has played havoc with Carnegie teams , tor many years past. Last year the Violets won only two games,' all season, one of these from a Plaid team that had beaten Notre - Dame, swamped Temple and tied Michigan State. A jinx as strong as this i:
team in years, fell before the Violet onslaught led by Ken Strong, in as spectacular a game as one could wish for. Carnegie, o a championship, bad mowed down all opposition when the underrated N. Y. U. lads came lu and spoiled all chances.
Opportunity For Vengeam So far Coach Mai Stevens' boys ..ive Bhown little threatening power this year. Despite losses the Carnegie grldders have proven themselves strong defensively. A dry day at Neiv York might be- just what the Tartans need to click. Against Johns Hopkins the VioletB unimpressive; Len Barnum pushed them all around to win for WeBt Virginia Wesleyan 21- weak Lafayette team fell before them 12-7; and Georgetown held them to a scoreless lie. T*- * Georgetown team outplayed the
of strength In repulsing touchdown threats from the flve-yard Mae, which Georgetown reached f in the third period.
New Llheuo Clicking 
Next Saturday both teamB have been completely revised during past wesks. The Tartans may show even more changes before the starting whistle blows, but at present the last week -lineup has proven Its capability. Freddy Leh- n at fullback proved that he has intention of relinquishing that embattled position to anyone. He played a slashing, driving game,
__Yankee fleldandwill be anxious to redeem the loss sustained on that grid. Bill Carl- who did nicely against Pur- inay see action to give little Sputzle a rest for the pending Tem-  fray:> -Joe; Mlhm,- whoa boom- punts have been a telling facia every game so far, will be In there to continue his capable quarterbacking. At present, pears that Butch Vorderburg will maintain his outside halfback position in. view of his defensive play against Purdue.
self capably against the Boilermakers. Henrlon and Chyczewskl have already proven themselves a fine, impenetrable' pair of guardB, while Doloway and Croft at the tackles are continuing their con* sistently thorough performance. Lib Lewi9 will inevitably start while the opposite end Is still open for debate with three capabje candidates trying for the starting job.
Violets Dangerous 
In spite of the fact that the Vlogood passer, while Ed Smith (a hard plunger and a flne klcker, tipping the beam at about 206.- The jest of the teiHn is mostly sophomores and last years reserves.
C. SIEGEL PASSES EM
HEALTH BULLETIN \
HEALTHFUL LIVING
Exercise regularlyevery day out of doors If possible.2.. Eat simple foods with plenty of '  fruits and vegetables.Sleep eight hours every night. 4. Keep fresh air in your room- open the windows.YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE IFOR YOU
There are how over 400 bicycles Smith College. They have be* . ime such a menace that the student - government association is formulating,special traffic rules.
Tech Barber Shop
Craig and Forbes 
Oailand
All The Good Magazines Rolled 
- Into One -
As many stories as a magazine devoted to atones 
Aa many eartoons as any cartoon magazine 
As many articles as any leading journal of opinion . 
As much humor as any humor magazine
------Mott*-full tbmlmc pa<ses than any-otkcs ag*2ie - ...
ONLY making a feature of latest men s fashions
Iaq LUIaq~ms rymvyaini ron rcnt- V
IfOV*frfrER ISSUE ON SAI.E WOW; .
p wJi twiilifnn
Attractive Meets 
On for Harriers
Coach Guy Halferty announced 
the schedule of both the varsity 
and freshman cross-country teams 
this week. Each squad will be 
busy until the weather becomes 
too bad for meets. .
The varsity harriers are entered 
In the A, A. U. meet on the third 
or November. The. .contest will be 
at 10:30 and will start on Flagstaff 
Hill. On the ninth Westminster sends a team here to meet the Carnegie runners. The time for-that engagement is 4:00 o'clock. Pitt comes across Forbes on the fourteenth for a return match with the Tartan squad. Last yar Giolma drew first blood when he crossed the Une ahead of Pitt's entries. Coach Halferty al6o mentioned the probability of Carnegie entering the 'district championship meet on the "24th of November.
The starters for the Plaid In the Saturday run are: Giolroa, Babin, Beal, McMahon, Means, Koch, and Neff.
The plebes are set to entertain five teams. Today at 4:00 oclock
the twelfth. On the the Pitt frosh make their visit to the Sklbo hlll-and-vale to conclude e year for the Tartan plebes. 
The yearlings who will start toBoilermakers 
Take, Tartans
Plaid Holds First Half; 
Folds in Second
Mihm Outstanding
Poor Blocking, Tackling Tell 
On Carnegie Defense
For the second year ia succes
sion, the Tartans have taken It 
the chin from the Purdue Boiler
makers. In alternate blasts of 
wind and rain, the Plaid valiantly 
went down to defeat to the tune of 
20-01
The first half of the game wai 
great exhibition of good football 
the part of both teams, for they 
seemed to be very- evenly matched 
and capable of holding each other 
exactly where they wanted, In the 
last two chapters of the game, how
ever, the Tartans seemed to have 
become an entirely different team.
Lid OFT In Second Half
Although they showed real 
strength during the' first part or 
the battle, they were completely 
weakened after the second whlsLle, and did not seem to be able to hold the pepped-up Purdue outfit at all After the Boilermakers first tally, the Skibos lost their morale, and after the second Bcore they were almost in a state of pknlc.
Purdue undoubtedly outplayed Carnegie lads, for they
than the Tartans. The trick play of using two quick passes, -whl.ch the Harpster-coached outfit, was successful each time it tried, but It did not account for gains of any great length.
The passing- attacks of both iams were poor, for neither outfit got very far on passes, most of them either being knocked down missed by the player for whom they were Intended. In the third quarter, however, Purdue managed > compete a couple of passes at very vital time, and managed to get Into a position to score.
Mihm Again 
Mihm proved himself 1
apects also, but his punting will iver be forgotten.PurvlB and Carter lived up to
BIG JOE PUNTS EM
excellent punting per*
their reputations, and played bangup. games. They proved that .the 
stories of thoir gridiron prowess 
had not been exaggerated In the 
least and that they are just as good. If not belter than they were last season. ,
Light Lightning,
Perhaps one of the most striking players sfeen at the- Stadium in some time was little Orville Anderson. Weighing only 138 poundB,- he proved that size and weight are not the prime requisites for a good football'player, for hewaB responsible for much of the,yardage gained by the Boilermakers.Freddy Lehman also showed up ell Saturday. WJth a little more experience and coaching, he is going to develop Into one of the bast fullbacks which Carnegie has seen In many years.
Choose your bank 
as you would choose 
a friend 
?
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Joe Mihms Toe 
Gains Prominence
Credit for being the tandln? player on thebe given to Joe Mihm.i the squad this
Harpster developed quarterback trouble thlB fall, ib was decided that Joe was the man for the Job. He started in this capacity against Notre Dame, nud he was so satisfactory that he'was held over for the Purdue engngemout. Now it appears .that this will bo his par*
lug as it speaks fluently for ItBelf.
wants it. a virtue which has put
Mens, Womens 
Rifle Not. s
Tryouts for the Womens Rlflo 
Team will be held on Mondays and 
Wednesdays, 3:30 to 5:30, All can
didates will flrst quality in sightlug, aiming uud position. / If there ' 
arc enough candidates, a Womens - 
Freshman Rifle Team will be. or- ' 
gaulzed.
In the last week timed rifle prac
tice, the following'scores ranked first to llfth. Inclusively: Broad- head, 27$; Melllnger, 277; Slngel, 272; Aibrlno, 2G7, Dervnes, 262
sevenil Tartan opponents In preca* rlous positions. He also kicks a high boot that glvea the ends plenty or chance to snug the runner before he gets fully under way- Hiu most famous kick of the year was the one against Michigan State, when he kicked from behind his own goul line to the State ton. a total distance of 93 yards.
The nomination for the two most: conscientious freBhmen out at Kansas State wos made by the Collegian: The girt who Is studying for the aptitude tests and-the boy who was seen perusing tho
Ttl.o 13c.ll Telephone Company of^Gtmsylvar
Good Taste /
The worlds finest tobaccos are used in 
Luckiesthe Cream of the Crop 
only the clean center leavesfor the 
. clean center leaves are the mildest leavesIts toasted
^^they^ogt^nore^^hey^ast^>ette^^^Awrt^*ra<<fe^tefri<frrtto^^fl^krtt^

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAKWEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1934
<Thc Tarne^ie Partati
PHONB MAYFLOWER :
Edltcrrln-CUcf ....sas?.M LANDSBERG F. MUNSTER----ROT MINET______HABOLD 3._______________JEROME HANSON____________MABGABET G BIFFINir________HERBERT F. SCHWARZ-DUDLEY D. PENDLETON
BaJdy, Alpha Black.
Adelald Remlnston, Scbretbels, Albert SteTOrt^Rutb Well
SPORTS STAFF: J. S
TYPISTS: Catherin 
Virosis-' WTe?ej 
STAFF' ARTSTS:
loreoce Huelan, ElUabotb
Ail Opportunity for 
Human Service
The nucleus for the student personnel ad
visory, body which the Tartan has advocated 
In two preceding editorials Is already present 
on the Carnegie campus, What Is needed Is 
Its formal organization and authorization to 
function' as sch. We speak of the Depart
ment of, Psychology and .Education.
As the Initial move, the Tartan.suggests tbat 
a committee, headd/by. Dr. Schoen, be ap
pointed by the Educational Senate, and that 
thia-committee be authorized to organize and 
conduct a student personnel advisory service 
endiomake such further recommendations to 
th ^Senate as its experience in the work 
dictates. }
it Is not the Tartans aim to advocate the 
establishment, of a body or-committee to.su--. 
; persede or. encroach upon the.student relations 
whi<$ the departments Individually feel to be 
.rightfully their own. Rather, It Is*intended to 
supplement departmental work with respect to 
student problems which go below those sur
face difficulties which are normar solved by 
; curricular, adjustments. - .
6oine departments, recognizeand attempt to: 
meet:the* need, for student' aid. Their- efforts,- 
however, because of. natural limitations, are 
not and cannot be a substitute loria capable 
student advisory body; Where denials of this 
'-statement .are made, there you will And: an!. 
Ignorance of and a lack oft sympathetic in
sight Into the real nature of niany student, 
problems.
:. While we should hesitate] perhaps, to be
queath, a burden of such magnitude to a department already well occupied* the opportu*. 
nltles for practical and beneficial work seems 
to be justification enough in Itself, i Further, 
here are men in- that department whom the 
.-Tartan believes to be eminently well-fitted ;to 
undertake such a task, '.
Dr. Schoen,. head of the department, would, 
serve as the coordinator, the administrator,, 
".whose special duty it would be to analyze the 
nature of the student's difficulty and direct him; 
. to th proper person tor advice and,help.
To the emotionally*-maladjusted.student. Dr. 
Shaffer, could offer-hls specialized, training and. 
experience. In abnormal psychology.- And for. 
that aspect of personnel work whlch depends 
:Upo teetfl and. measurements, Professor Clee.ton could contribute the experience which has. 
- served to establish, him as an'authority In that 
isid. ; ;  - ;.
rlcular problems need an Impartial assisting 
-'agency: to which they can lum-. for trained, 
;sympati6tfe. advice leading toward-.proper. ad
justments. It may or may not be the college' 
or university's OBLIGATION .to. provide, s'uoh 
 source .oi-expert counsel, but It Is certainly 
an ' OPPORTUNITY for rendering enduring 
_human .service..
The Bell Tower
Renewal of discussion of the. Bell Tower 
. nc; again brings before the. student .body a 
mtter of prime Importance.' While this stu
dent-subject Is-familiar t all upperclassmen 
it nevertheless needs Introduction, to the fresh
men.' Forthis ttsauon a complete account; of 
the history- of the Bell Tower up Co the present' 
time Is given elsewhere in this Issue.
A true understanding of the worth- of this 
project can be obtained by viewing, it In every 
light. Both practically, and emotionally- Its 
value to the campus must be carefully 
weighed. It was origlnaliy conceived as  
monument to Andrew Carnegiej'^ That 'conceit 
lion m.ust be grasped by every student or-th 
 entire significance of the undertaking is lost.
 It will not be a structure erected merely to 
; encbence. tlie campus.-.-It my be a. .thing of. 
beauty. It may be Just the thing neededto 
- lend the ^mp^s a chai^cteflBtlc'touch and' 
pervade'It with an -acde^lcspirit. . It may be 
/tlt^tbutes3ntt^ty^.iV.wl;:liea.trlbut<3' 
^vtho saa who, by Jils ^lft^ inade .Carnegie, 
/institute of Technologyah actuality. - And as > 
-'memorial it derives.' .added:^significance ' bevcause of. the fa'ct tbat' It wlli-have'been. built 
. notosly by. student fandsvbut alao troit .stu* 
Vdent'designs; an'd ; ictuitf fstude^
;;Wor&' on';ihe\Btt.ji.:T'^^^
.>thie-;-ppint where it will bcome. necessary- io 
-declde. once and for all,'whether it.should.be 
fUhdertaken or noL That decision rests "with 
. ha atudents. It therefore becomes imperative 
thati
m ihat when the time comwt tie TrtU be j
Disgruntled Students And 
lad fferent Faculties
It Js neither a new nor an original thought 
tbat^ a close relationship between student and 
faculty-membere will bring-better results In ed-~ 
ucstlon then where that relationship does not 
exist, it is a' fact generally conceded by leading 
educators and something striven for by every 
Institution of higher learning .In the country. 
Some have taken pains to experiment with 
tutorial systems to. achieve the- deBtred end 
while others have more or less left It up to 
each Individual faculty member to break down 
any barriers that might exist between himself 
and his students and so pave the way to more 
friendly relations. Of the two methods, the 
latter Is practiced at Carnegie, The degree It 
has attained. Is somewhat' a matter of conjec
ture. One disgruntled student, whoso letter 
appears on page five, has written la no uncer
tain terms' that he considers it a dismal fallAlthough we consider- his letter -to be an 
exaggeration of the condition here, we feel 
that it is justified, to certain extent, because 
that Intimacy between faculty and. student 
does not exist to the degree tbat it might. It 
Is be expected that an instructor who sees his 
students two or.three times a week can be
come a good friend of all of them. A certain 
amount of co-operation is required oa the pact 
of the student. He must realize that the class
room Js not the only place to contact the fac
ulty. Yet there is, and always will be,, a large 
group of students who are reluctant or 111 at 
ease about speaking to their instructors concernfng' things other than their school work, 
it Is precisely with these students that the 
faculty has its biggest problem.  .
Too much emphasis cannot be laid upon tho 
need tor aolving this problem;. Its solution 19 
an essential, an almost indispensable factor In. 
any plan or education! ^t is not suEflcientthat 
an Instructor teach hiB j course and make his 
classes interesting. Unless he wins the con
fidence and friendship of his students, he will 
not have done his job well.
L C. E.
QUESTIONS BEHIND. THE HEAD LINES An able Journalist' and observer, William H. Chamberlin, has just.written Russias Iron Age," based on 14 yearef first-hand experience. His earlier writings showed enthusiasm for the Soviet ideals. H1b present volume questions whether the, end justifies the means in 
Russia. ,Why can propaganda be more effective in Russia than in this country?
- What Is meant.by the statement: "Class Is a* much a fetish lh contemporary hwdJlJs as race Jri contemporary Germany?
Do even' the highest classes in Russia pos
sess high standards of living?
Thfee or four million'people died of -starvation in the greatest .wheat-producing ,nrea of 
the world during the storing and. summer of 1933.' Was the .world lnforiped of this at the time? Were world charities asked to co-oper
ate In this crisis? .
Why do American Liberals oppose the huKing Alexander's will, just disclosed, indicates a fortune of $10,000,00, accumulated durlng .Che past decade.Who paid for this?Compare the financial fortunes of Prince Ernst. Von Starhembrg.
neerihg or recognition of- a* established fact? 
How did Bishop Manning vote?
DER KINGFISHf  : DELTA DICTATOR v By Wayne W. ParrishHuey. Long is forty.' .He  his- held every offlci tte state.4f Louisiana can. giro him. He has been Governor and vnoW he .is United StatesSenatof. He:Is stronger politically In ;hlB own state: .than: ever before in bis-public career.. Whatoithe future? .
'That'was- the question: that constantly re-' c^ed?lo'meitm V^eii(tot-visW-<!0- ttw -P-sHcan. State'-at the moiitlt ot the Mississippi.- Here is a demagogue-Without parallel, a shrewd .politician, a man 'whose audacity has shocked the meek and- enteriHlned the hill billies-.- It he were sixty, the qufettion. would not be sd important. But Huey is young, and he: is the most publicized public :ofRclal .in the entire nation outside, of the President himself:
Huey has provided the wlse-crackers.wlth a delug-of material:.-:The-columnists have run riot telling about tils escapades, it is all good fun. Huey; likes- it and so do. the readers. Political prognostlcatora.thought Huey was on the1 decline.a few months ago* and that he was oh the way out. The last primary in-Louisian^ showed the opposite. Huey Is some- thlngdo reckon with, no matter which way the 
political rjrlrioi-blows. '
The klugfl'sh has given his vanity full play. He has likened .himself to Caesar, Napoleon, Stonewall Jackson and Mussolini. There.may be . smarter men than me," he has satd, "but they aint in Louisiana.. - 
'lu Louisiana he has ridden rough-shod over, laws/precedents andtraditions.-, On one>occa- slon, when banded aa.Governor n copy Of the state Constitution^. he declared: I. am theConstitution Just now. Atotheir; times; he^has openly boasted of 'hls .control Over patronage -and. ^id.4w.V^^iA.^:IegisAatyre;.Uke a deck of cards.: Another time he said he bought legislatorsMike sacks of potatoes.
Of course there Is a credit side of the ledger. There were sixty miles of paved roads when he became Governor. There are now 3,000, md they are excellent- highways. He bas built.
llsbed night schools in rural-ateas, .he has de- -feEted a,political niacblne'aicorrupt as any In tUfe-nation, and he hiae written some excellent laws. His legal mlnd.Is sharp. . He is not a pussyfooter. And be has successfully ..attacked some of the "big Interests.
He 1s -magnificent newspaper copy. There was the time when tbe German commander of' the. Qerman cruiser Emden paid him a formal state visit.*-Huey'opeh&d the ddOi"Ot ttts "botfei' suite dressed In green silk pajamas. It-wsa'acv embarrassing situation which threatened" to cause international repercussions. But Huey has;a quality of admitting that be is. wrong
rowed a Bpllt-tall coat from a minister, friend, -a .paJr of ^ttlped pants tand top hat from, the hotel manager, and-returned- the. call.-apologies for hij formsr. Inionaallt/ of drew. :-
Writers Row
.the river. On these fall mornings ... first impression of the river Is one of grey* ness. Everything Is dead grey, the river, the opposite shore, the sky, the very air. The river looks sullen and- tired, like a cross old woman who Js forced to keep plodding along. It looks as though It wants to toss waves Into the air and slap them down again, but it can't, for there seems to be a film stretched taut from bank to bank that holds the water stlii. The air Is heavy with fog. In some places we cant oven see the opposite shore, it Is the penetrating grey mist that takes all the life out of the morning. There seems to be no end to it. It meets the grey sky so that we cannot tell which is sky, which* is fog. It lies In everlasting layers to all sides of us. It liquifies and becomes the river. Finally it drifts into our minds to maroon, our thoughts and to hynotlze us into useless, staring faces. We dumbly .watch the dark ehapes of bridges and buildings aa they float past. We dont think. We simply sit and stare out into the fog. Even' the conductor, with his sharp "All tickets, please, does .not rouse us from our lethargy. We are asphyxiated by rog. Then, as the train turns to cross the river, we can look strafgl-*. down from the'bridge into the water. Wv notice that-there is no fog between us and the river. There Is just cold grey space, and then the restlesB water. Now. too, we can see the thin white streamers of fog rising from the river like' uncertain ghosts. We waken' gradually from our stupor aa we leave the train and get away from the river. In town, the buildiDgs seem to disperse the fog'. The air 1b lighter, and once more our minds, shaking off the fog, are free.ELIZABETH WEST.
through the galleries, armed,Waterloo, with lorgnettes, guide books, and smug smiles of understanding assumed defensively-for the pasBers-by. Occasionally, a genuine art student enters, without pomp,or display; many.other would- be students meander about with wrinkled eyebrows and frankly bewildered expressions; while quite a few self-appointed Btudents strut ceremoniously from picture to picture, prattling glibly on what is art and what Isn't.'
Most of these sell-appointed critics think that art Is peculiar and neurotic unless ' obviously Intelligible to the humblest layman .with little or no training in appreciation. Art, they argue, shpulU be a com-  mon fount of. Inspiration for all ages and classes of people., is appreciation really so spontaneous, though? Don't people develop slowly into understanding, instead ot being born with it? In literature, A; B. C's and parts of speech precede Shakespeare; in music, scales and chords are mastered before Bach's Fugues; and In mathematics, simple addition and subtraction come? before the solution of poly
in mld-alr?
Another obsession of these tenth rate critics 1J the cult of perfectionism. That ain't art, Is hissed at whatever falls short of conventionally ideal form ot* color. Everything from cats to steel mills must be lovely, lofty, and full of sentiment before it le really art to them, and not just another daub of paint. They forget tKat painting, as well as literature, la versatile In Its scopcthat there are Chaucers, Shelleys, Rabelais! and ONeills of the brush as well as of the penand that each artist, like each author, speaks through the medium of a different personality.Many laymen'have the same attitude toward painting as toward the theater and the other arts. They want frillssplendor.glitter.
. v^Ve see the raw seams of life every day,"they aay, "and when we go to the theater, we go to be amusedgive us Mae Westthe hell with "Mourning .Becomes Electra. In painting, too, they reach for .John La Gatta's drooplng-lipped, streamline clgar$t .beauties .In. preference to Raphael or -Rembrandt,--...
Everyone has .favorite theories on the nature of art, but' few are- qualified to speak authoritatively. The majority judge from prejud.iced.-or pur.ely personal stand- ards-of like and dislike,.but there is a difference between the popular and the genuine;'
' ' '________JIOSEMARY PIERCE.
his-,people and he fightsat least'presumably for the underdog. , He Is the peoples palv Huey can go to the most humble shack.ln. the' state, sleep under dirty bankets on the floor, and eat corn pone and drink. potliquor'with his hosts. That sort of thing gets tesults and votes. He has given the -people visible improvements. Ob doesnt, have to argue about highways. There they.are.
Every dally newspaper and: eighty per cent.
capitalized by Huey .until the people don't'.'be- Heve jyhat.they. r.ead In the-papera any more, Huiy uses the radlg. And anyone, who doeant belleve the r'adio has supplanted the liewspathe ground.
The Ktngfish.) has built up a tremendously, powerful political.' machine.' He makes' no bones;.about patronage. He will.do-.anytbing for his : friends.' and- he- 'hates his-enemies.. While in New-Orleans I talked-^t length with--. Colonel Seym.our Wei'Ss, the suave and. astute front for Huey,, and Weiss does not attelnpt to hide the 'tBSue of patronage. .Weiss .'ns- - shoe salesman a few years-ago. Then "lue jumped on Hueys bandwagon. -He covers' \xp Huey's mistakes, directs , his speaking .tours,-', and.- Is groomJag hlnu far feigg-sr-dajni abead.- And heve is something .not found in'the newspapers. Huey began talking about: his Share Our Wealth program several years
Mississippi wlien. he rammed through the newspaper tax not long ago), and today there are -Uteraily thousands- of "Share
capitalize t___Huey Is; s.maStt. ; He has* now, a. smooth Colonel House, a Cardinal Richelieu. He Is
strdtiig'in-his o^ Btate.' - He' is'tTemendc^uIy.ambitious,; -He Is a: poor , country, boy- that made good. He*wont keep quiet'.'- Meanwhile l*ls state Is. saddled by an extraordinary gnitt and. heavy. appropriations. -In; 1923. the. state debt' wafi'.'?11;000,000; -. Now -ifHs"|lB3.000.0ob. It has been demonstrated before that It take .a, lpng;,tlpie.,foi* a .politician to spend hU ..Way OUT- of offlCB. - It should be evideiikt thal Sen. Mi Uiog-Ulu it* pour u 4 with u "
On. Second. 
Tli on glut
Dudley D. Pendleton, Jr.
Failure of Revolution Pointe 
Towards Fascism in Spain
Complete lack of organization sealed the doom of the latest. Spanish general strike and revolution In which Liberals, Socialists,;  Communists, Syndicalists and 'Autonomists pooled- thoir forces'in a last Btand> against the . fascism which they believed the new. government under Premier Lerroux foretold.Army and Navy Bemail) Loyal.Even with their lack-of orgahlutter disgust, the well equipped army, navy and civil guards remained loyal to the Lerroux government, and while . democratic idealists the world over groaned, the strongest bulwark against fascism In Spain was vanquished.The Immediate cause of the uprising was the fall of the cabinet under Premier Samper which- led President Zamora to ask Alejandro Lerroux- to form another government. This he did, and, says Time, Promptly the dam broke. Spanish radicals might be in the minority, but they were ready and tbey
chine guns and occasionally light cannon, the revolutionists fought their way.
Why Should Lerroux Fire Powder?
Why the appointment of Lerroux
when we glance back and see what bos gone before. In 1902 Alphonso XIII at the age of sixteen ascending to royal power and setting an example to government officials by promptly asserting his
! raised provincial- ly under the narrow outlook of his mother (Marla Christina of Austria), Indoctrinated with the mil itary ideas of the army schools and dominated by the worst reactionary infiuences of the church. Hence It is not surprising to find In Spain during the early part of his rule i
course there were those who stood out against the corrupt disregard of political rights, but/ says Mr.
Alphonso Leaves Town In 1923 Alphonso with the help of the previously mentioned forces set himself up as dictator which position he held until the people, thoroughly aroused, turned the general electlons-'againet him and sent him packing across the border Into exile. Alphonso was re sponsible for his own downfall losing the confidence of the country when he failed .to recognize the, economic causes of Spanish unrest1 and falling to clamp down his iron 1 band when h'e saw his power slipping. Alphonso is to be thanked for his hesitation, says Mr. Allen, in tbat it kept the country from
bloodless revolution"Zamora from prison where has had been confined for his patt in. planRepublic. The new Republic adopt- constitution instituting many reforms, breaking up the feudal estates and enacting laws tor Soof democracy.Electoral Law Favors Minorities Spains electoral law, says mita Brenner, correspondent to the Nation, olJ shrewdly contrived so that an organized minority can nearly always defeat unorganized
llberal-reformist, progressive republic.The first step ot the new government .. undeyr.. Lerroux, but maneuvered by Gil Robles, "the Jesuit Populist with fascist dreams, was to repeal a law giving protection to
.wages dropped, hours lengthened, and. all the ancient seml-feudal relationships were re-established. Equally promptly a general strike waa declared which led to the guerrilla wavfare fvorn which tho number o^ dead were listed In
i iiow far Spain will go in
best-the Bituatlon is gloomy for ? J^rroux is bficked solidly In his actions by the army, navy, civil guards, retired army 'officers aud women of Spain... .! \
Dear Editor
Dear Editor:aware of the deporable condition prevailing at tho 'tea <Saaes-?-- -Ssine-oi the glrte at Margaret Morrison-either do not get dance, or very few if any. Only the ones that come with escorts seem to enjoy themselves. Many of the girls are anxious to make new Acquaintances and they look upon these tea dances as a moans  to Uo so;- But the results disappointing. This seems very stupid to me that the male attendance should stand In line and. cut ijj .npon girls who .aro already dancing when there
them to dauce with.have observed- from somo Statistics that there are two boys tor every one'girl iri 'thJs school,
but the boys certainly seem conceited- or afraid to take any initl- Ive In chooslng-partnere.I think that It.you would write few. words about-this fault. It Would make the bovs-'aware that the girls do not underestimate thehpme. talent.
dmrc,^cgc .m .wgnO JO.',;til.e 
..-.Aisle
By Jane Livingston
Lve For Love, by ' Congreve Is a comey of manne
0rUVrec ASopening production of the drama students, sets,: ity1n the; Btyle and 
..........century
play is_a;together. modern, ,0De v< 
 - n violently avoir'.'wrong-, -long b:
............ by Mae,
characters Irig -she; did' : fore the phrase -was West...
. ."Love s For. Love, has 
unless entangling' alliances makVslop.
Hobo
AND ALL. THE PROFS-WORE? MASKS . . - Worth mention is the 
Halloween party staged by the P^ & D. Seniors. That sterling produc
tion, Nigger Pink Postures, went over big. Nice work, Miss Shelton. 
Mr. Raedlo did himself proud in leading the good old Paul Jones. Do
nuts and everything. One of those "good time had by all" affairs.
DORM LIGHTS . . . Mrs. Myers, acting Forbes Hall H. M., Is a strong 
believer In outdoor Illumination. Especially during the "good-nightagain hour. All ot which presented quite a problem for the lassies 
one hit on the Ideal solution. Now it's just press a button and 
aJls oke. A case of you light 'em on, and Ill light 'em oil.
We have yet to find who Edith Taub is getting her long distance 
calls from, but we do know'that last Sun. night it took practically the 
whole three minutes to get her to the phoue. We suggest a strict ad
herence to schedule as an economy measure. Ov putting newly..ap
pointed Fire Chief Hubbard on a "get-tbem-there-jn-n-hurry committee.
GAME SCENE . . . 1st half . . . Three old grads enjoying a wee 
dropee each time our boys make a first down.
Three old grads in a huddle.
2nd half . . . Three old grads enjoying a wee clropee each time 
the Boilermakers make a first down.
DARK HORSE . . . More surprised than ovon most .of us was Ronny 
Kloos-herself when the honorary officers election result? . were. made 
known. Why me? Im flabbergasted" we caught as. her official stateit Mid hysterics. ...
Delts Dana and Vinson tied for Major with sweeties Nichols.and 
Motter. Will this lead to a point of priority at the Clyde Str House?
stakes. And hes still holding't
MORE DORM FUN . .. . From Mellon comes claim for the crime of 
the week. Last wed, with most everyone at the little theater, the 
entire dorm' was short sheeted. A swell Job It was, too. Yet It seems' 
was present long eiiojigh'to accomplish the dirty work. To date 
the villain is still at large. Perhaps a clever young Pgh. attorney 
could solve the caBe. What say, Mary Lou.
HERB KITTY . . . Cals seem to be the latest In the line of household ' stray bli) buy It (und for a full week t in bis arms and coc
It seems hes .quite t him in the kitchen t
l'iites honorable mention. He' broke
bus about three o'clock In the morning. While putting her hat on in the dark, she accidentally dropped her cigarette flown the back ot her neck. Letting out a darb'Of a scream, she' leaded to her feet and started to dance aboutth'e-'flboF. 1 In a few seconds several young men (not includlng'-Becker,-he-couldnt get out br-his fieal) had uurveyed the. Bituatlon and a searching pavty had been'organized. One man had his --------- <- -........................... ( juat
"The cigarette fell through s
There are enough of those to turn anything loto a'plot.'buL Mr .Congreve only used them as back ground.;for bis wit.. That was the way hudiences in his day liked tiieir plays, 'and Mr. Congrev^ as a'good
gets to have anything happen the characters-- Suddenly, -ho ever; .he' seems to remember,, and the. res.ulta of the piece are one
revive Congreve today, or the witty dlalogiie cf his plays. He ridicules and:.sati-i rlzes the sophisticated fashionables' of Charles Ils couj-t .who spent their time in1 amorous Intrigue and -who', when slapped with-a Stinging remark' did not turn ;the other cheek,-but slapped ..back... And .jn,. the . Carnegie Tech production of "Love For Lovo'1 tHe students' slap hard. They-h'ave-put: a great deal of effort into, their, 
work and are..playing, their, roles' with the delighted enthusiasm -( being able to be sarcastic without hurting anyones feelings. The entire group Is excellent Milton Goldbloom, however,, is outstanding. . As Tattle, a half-wltled'1
charming .heroine, lpyed sides of. the ,fqotllghis for bcr co- quettishneas. Margaret Goldberg: is a winning young lhnocent leading the etiquette-of love,-but never.; remembering, that what has .been' said at night sho.uld be forgotten by morning.The chances for character Inter-' pretation - in the play : give Gari Dozer and- David Preston a fine chance, to show, what they, cap, dohake love' j'smooth
and they trytheir "'idea;- of'course. '  ? .........
John Kennedy Is-tho herp who. i3,.j30 ,much difficulty In maltinganyone believe that he lbVeaVXiiV gellca' and  Ralph' -Nason'-Is-h\&- brother whom no woman-will ha,8;: though he -caht- see why.His difficulties are-, all -wiped, away,.however,,when, .in the customary'epilogue, Congrfeve and the' cast ask for leniency towards, their efforts- which, last-.-night,. found-.-favor with..both, audlenc?
Committees for Arts 
| J}$11 Arc Appointed
'-------- Continued FroreFaso Ji J.l
man. Alice PJiilpott, Jean Sloane, Morton-;Leavltt. . ' * t Orchestra: Paul  Koch, chairman. Beatrice Archer, Edward Hazel, James Speyer, Loretta Curcolm Milligan, Maynard Samson, Edward Palkot, Vincent' M'as'elll. Refreshments: Julfa- .Hubbard,chairman, Catherine Gift, and Barbara... Yoakum.. Entertainment:, et Patrick,,chairman, Patti Lit'' , Henry ' Kelly: ' Costumes:: rcia- Lefety, -chairman: Dorothy: yer, Kay. Bower^Dorotliy-.NeuStatisticians got busy::4fter- lbe:
interesting facts. ; The .suhJect..p(c 
the. survey , was the, profound ter of-'cigarette? butis gathers^, ui?
230. ex tra long butts, which, ft was decided,  must have ,belonged, to football men who saw. the coach, 
coming.Tomahawk.
I prefer Old Golds. . .and so does
mq throat satjs I'Ll alii 11
1 WlUIAH uUuiiftttai WfllBtj Bra, glCturvjHg pEAtSOty^ J4DBDE11 ASETLI CAS

---------------------------------------------------

LTHE.CARNEGIE TARTAR TUESDAY. OCTOBER -30, 1934
WTHE
mOKING GLASS:
14
Down in OldTallhasse
Traditions of Florida 
College iveal in 
Feature Letter
WE found a shop (the only ot f its kind in Pittsburgh) that Be' (ho pace for womens footwear- nd carries sizes from 2' to b. ogue propliecied that shoes soon _/ould almost touch the ankle, a la fkrandmothers day, and so they o! One style is of gray suede with a patent leather toe and heel, and tiny pearl side buttons. An- sa.v- ie nnttnmed after the Monk In brown crushed .id with a built-uj) "boulevard" ilyle leather heel. And still anther is a high six-yelet tie ox- d in either black suede or brown rarushed leather with a patent leather how. The newest in an ..Jrening shoe is the black satin ox- $3ord with the tiny bow tie^an for Hhe other extreme, th new Kil-  shoe is winning all honors j|n Ihe sports world. This 6hoe .?,. 11^ name because of the kiltie called Seottie) detachable .-jngue. It Is a two in one shoe ~%ben the tongue is detached you r attractive dress oxford.r
 _.. r black suede, Interlaced lib kid, and a very comfortable i heel.
I WE'VE discovered (to, live in&) justhave another
pal of angora combined with flan: ael. The hip length coat is lined kith blue satin, and hae large re- a belt of satin. The flacks are comfy, hut not baggy, 'find they are silt up the side, lounds good.
1 puT yourself on the gold standlilh metallic threads intere cloth. A row of tiny buttons from the tailored Peter Pan foliar, and find their way to lge of the pleated tunic skirt, fmall kick-pleat in the black crepe _Lves the sole relief ailored lines.
YOU don't have to be afraid of Ihe big bad wind if you selves to one of these new CHIN- CHUCKERSt They do wonders by ^dding that extra somethingi clothes. Scarfs In all sizes colorsall styles! Long , Ascots, Squares, jiglesall hand knitted, especially like the square potton fishnet!
DO you have an old handbag
Lp with your initials? We
i the likes before! Of with a satin finish, the i RAISED and stan.> thumbonly, of course.
feiit when we saw this HOSTESS ;6wn, we decided that It wasnt :oo late to start. The gown is of a loft black velvet, relieved only, by frineBtone clips at the shoulder &nd belt. The long sleeves princess style, with a slit from Shoulder to elbowand the back is illt to the waistline. 'The full skirt [gives the semblance of a train1, but let it deceive youit really it sweep the floor.
DIFFERENT! SUBTLE! Fashion as discovered something : venlng wear. A chiffon
y can do away with the inconve- nce of carrying a handbag while i dancethese purses are large inough to contain your make-up . comb, and small enough
ELVA HENDEL.
Music Notes
sfconlriiHition to the program aisted of .the second movement Bruchs "Concerto In  and three movements ,of "Labor, Symphonic Espagnol. 
Earl Wild 37, Department of Hale, gave a piano jecital at. t' Women's Club; Mono&gahela,, Friday. His program consisted of! the following numbers: A Be6tti-aoveu Sonata, group of Chopin gEtudes, Chopins Polonaise, TScliergo by Dalbert, "Lea. Funer- Bailies by Liszt, and Ravel'S "Jean
Students are advised that Saturday Is the last date to obtain gstudent rates for the.' symphony gconcevts.) Tlie programs to be _ are:; Detroit Symphony, gfoaturlng Viola Mitchell, violinist; Boston Symphony; Dec. 14; Minrie- lapolls Symphony, Feb. 8, ana Puts* JburgU Symphony, Mar. 29.
Identification caras for student (rates .mav...lie. obtained. ... at,...Miss l^awt'ons offices. Department of Music, College of Fine Arts.
[fS. has. also .made the'contrJhut.ion  a march to be' played on Carhe* Day. .............!
l Chauncev Keiiv has orchestrated Bachs "Prelude 'and Fugue for tlie school orchestra. It was played tor the first time at the rehebvsal on Thursday, October 25.
By Carolina De Montlgne
Tallahassee, Florida. 
Dear Readers of the Carnegie 
Tartan:
Down in the emerald and blue of| 
Florida lies the State College f< 
Women In old Tallahassee, town of 
tradition, 
chance - that we And the college 
year filled with traditioual monies; it Is the enchantment of the past which we breathe air.
On a gloriously warm fall evening comes our first of ceremonies, Torch Night. Th verdant Open- Theater stage forms the setting
passing of responsibility from the sophomore class to the freshman. 
Yet another bond ties the freshen class to the schoolthe me', dieval ceremony of Fealty. Stately dances, rich costumes, and' betrothal of the Prlnco of the junior class to the loveliest girl In the younger class characterize the binding of the sister groups.
Flames Cut Blackness 
Then, too, there is the insplrlri'g
Seniors are brought suddenly to proper realization of tholr dignity with the impressive Invest- tude Service. It Is only then they receive the privilege of wearing their flowing black gowns and mortar boards and from this time they ire greeted- as they march into con- 'ocatlon, with the hearty strains of 'Hail to the Caps and Gowns" sung lustily by the underclassmen.
F. S. C. W. Week is one set aside for the entire student body honor thelf college. It Is a festival of dances, competitive skits, candlelight dinners and pep
Alumnae Divided Into Groups 
To Florida State. Thanksgiving eans turkey, cranberry sauce, and all flxins as a part of the biggest "" >mecomiug. ircolleglate :tlvlties, the school' is divided into Odd and Even classes, according to the year of entrance, and hos-   carried on' 'between as between colleges. Thus the Odd and Even Demonstra- tlons the two nfghts before Thanksgiving are original musical comedies predicting, the complete triumph of the basketball and -volley ball teams whose cohorts are. presenting the show. These are tol- lowed by mysterious .."Nights Out,!
Childrens Writer Defends 
Narrative lii Child Training
Tiiornton Burgess Prefers Story to Didacticism; 
Broadcasts Weekly, Writes Daily Column; 
First Bed-Time Tale Written for Son
Faculty Not 
Friendly, Says 
Student Critic
Praises Doctor Neelleys 
Attitude; We Need 
More Like Him
There Is a distinct' psychology, in the bed-tlme story  you can teach through a story where you cant possibly reach the child with didactic ' methods, explainedThornton W. Burgess, the genital, elderly author of the-Green Meadow and "Old Mother Wst Wind Series, -. and other childhood favMr. Burgess then related an incident wh.ere bed-tlme stories proved ihe solution to an ordinary, but vexing problem of child training. A young mother was at wits end niter trying in every way she knew to remove her sons morbid fear of the dark. She wrote to me, and I replied by writing the 'Timmy, the 
Flying- Squirwhen no harm Thornton Burgees could -befall 
him. It took only a few vivid my stories to recondition the child from dreading darkness to accept- g it as a normal sequence of
In response to the question, "How
did j
for it, but had always been especially Interested in children and na- study. When he was twenty- he wanted to get into journalistic work, and for a time wrote
said, and used that already popular personage, Peter Rabbit, for my hero. All th existing Peter Itabyells and heated, speeches. After the fast and exciting games on Thanksgiving morning, the Odd red, and purnle merge with thoEven preen and gold ': the
|THlSTLE- SITTINGS ARRANGED
All seniors who Intend to haveI
-hclr pictures in the 1335- TMsfcl* should report at onco.to the/'Y;' office and arrange foY a, dititug.
F. S. C. W. garnet and gold preme heights.
Crown King, Queen 
Mid-Winter Festival . brin other round of gaiety. Odd-Even1 hockey and. soccer' ganv.es once more the competitive spirit, while the Coronation Ball of the king and queen adds to the splen'
occurrences which we share with most colleges, as is our May Day celebration. The last is uniq ' however, because of its early be- Finning at six oclock. . At this time sophomore sisters honor the ?.-eivi(\r.T with- breakfast 
Senior'Tree Planting and Senior. Book Burning - are ceremonies currlrig at secret dates during tire year. The book burning consists in reducing to ashes a page, from
____and times of the occasion atCTasfs .Day...Jo., tho. chagrin, of.the tricked st''dnt body. Tree Planting is quietly accomplished after all dormitory lights have been extin
guished.
Serenading Is Impressive 
 most -impressive custom is that ot serenading. During Freshman Week, soft m'elodies in ( the clear, night air welcome the newcomei to four years of friendship and ei rihd living! . Seniors ciirol i Christmas tlie. lovely hymns oE r joicng; snior Mrtr Bards ser nad new Inltiats in the spring; the entire student body honors president,. Dr. Edward Conradi.
in the darkened dormitories. | 
Thus we have traditionsmany of them. Each Is unique in tlie scheme of our'lives at F. S. C. W.; each has Its share in creating . the spirit f goodwill, friendliness; and cooperation which' makes' more beautiful and abundant the. Shtirt period of college life. It is fitting, therefore, that our. regal colors o* garnet and goi'd re part of our seal bearing three ' inspiring torches,- Vires, Artes, Tres  Strength, Skill, and Traditionand our. goal, 
Femlna Perfecta.
Most sincerely ypura..CAROLINA DEMONTIGNE,.President Studt Government.
i happen to start writing for
bit stories had - been read to him lany times over; and still he anted more, so I started writing .orne for him myself, and hav. been writing theni or publication since."
x Being a bed-time story king, howls hardly a childish occupa- In addition to th books be has published, Mr. Burgess ducts a network childrens program oh the radio once a week, id a daily syndicate story in the ewspapors. Altogether, lie has written more than 7,100 stories for this column since Its begluning. Thinking up new adventures each day for Jerry Muskrat and Old Granny Fox has kept his so busy that he hasnt had a vacation for fo years.When asked who were his favorites among the many animal
preferencesliked them all. The children, however, seem - to like Peter Cottontail and . Reddy Fox best, Mr.'Burgess said.Mr. Burgess lets the Illustration of bis stories entirely to the judgment and imaiglnatlon of the artist. Usually they have harmonized very satisfactorily with the subject i
he wrote a story about Mr. Toad for his daily newspaper column. According to the text, Mr. Toad was wallowing contentedly in the mud, but the accompanying picture showed a spry, puffy creature in spotless white dress shirt.Mr. Burgess waB one of four childrens writers in' Pittsburgh last Saturday for "Authors Week
rfhree Scries Bed-Time ' Stories, Old Mother West Wind,"Green Meadow, and the "Burgess Bird, Flower, "Animal, and 'Seashore Books for Children.
Dear Editor:
 great deal is written in regard greater understanding and
. In a good many instances, students as members of a specific *do- pairtment for the past two or more years aro as yet unknown by, name to their department instructors! In other cases where the students are' known by their department iu* structors, theretendency for _ 'few- ot these" instructors hiblt anything but a.friendly ntUIt seems that these conditions are prevalent mostly among tboso that are not known outside of the school and who ju6t teach because they cannot sccure other employchance of bettering the feeling between the faculty and students.At this junction .1 would like to "hand out a bouquet to Dr. John H. Noelley Of the Mathematics Department. For tho flrst time, outside of a few exceptions In my own department, I felt right at home at Carnegie.  On my third day in this particular class, Dr. Neelley was addressing everyoue by bis first name and- exhibiting such frlendll- ; that I never expected to see__this campuB. Certainly  Dr.Neelley should be complimented
Inquiring Reporters Get Student 
Opinion of Vocational Advisory Plan
Some Find Present System 
Efficient; Others Would 
Try New Bureau
an effort to check up on the general attitude of the student body ards/ the question of a person- advisory system, three Tatian reporters spent one day last week asking questions of unsuspecting undergraduates.
The question asked was "Would you approve .of the establishment vocational and personnel advisory bureau at Carnegie? Here ome of the answers. im& students come with no ideas as to what they should study. They come merely because ..Tech is Tech. Therefore, there should )me advisory system whereby all freshmen would be talkei} to
conducted by students it will not work.Jack McKee.
Impartial Bureau Needed 
"A bureau should be established in order that students can discuss their- problems with an Impartial person and. thereby discover the field For which they are best equipped.James Stewart.
"Yes, if used as a Brain Trust to determin the policies oE the, school and to. keep the students' schedules
-JercPresent advisors are only concerned with one course. An advisory board would- be more efficient because it would. not lie connected with only one subject." Alan Bell. .
Present System Beet 
"The present system is. probablythe. best,, though.... ....students take advantage parimental advisors.
the
probably a more efficient method would be developed. Robert McFarland.
'The bureau would keep students posted on schedule, changes. Frequent changes in courses may leav< students With an Insufficient num ber of.credlt6 to graduate. A wel irganized advisory , system would eradicate this complaint.Jame: Latta.
'Not wortfi bothering with.
should the school him through to graduation? Mry Alice Cole.
Present-System Needs Trial 
"Perk up the present system, hasnt been given a fair -trial.1
away from faculty control."- Ladd.What is the matter with the prsent sstm of faculty guldopportunities?John Parker.
Dormitory Girls Hold , 
lallouieen Party Wed.
Hall from 10:00 to 11:30 Weilncs- day, October 31. 
Though not to be masked, girls
bo served and characteristic Hallowe'en . games are scheduled for the.evenings entertainment.- Mary Yorke, baum Hall, and Chairman Leigh, Birch Hall,
Womens Dormitory
Council Giyes Ta
havo been extended to each of th fraternities and men's dormitory groups to. attend. Betty Casey and Virginia Yohe are in chorgo of plans for the event. These teas aro.given annually for the. purpose of helping th resldont men and women students become acquaint* ed with each otlieii
Freshmen Take 
Color Day Exam
Freshmen of Margaret. Morrison took the regular Color Day Examination today at 11:30 in the M. M. Assembly Room. The examination is given under the supervision of
will be requirednlnatlon within t..---------Annual Color Day ceremonies will be observed on Tuesday, November 13, at 11:30. It Is at this time that the freshman class receives its colors from the last graduating class, and takes Its place among -the four classes of Margaret -Morrison. Color Day Is a. project of the Margaret Morrison 
Senate.
1
 TRADITION OF REFINEMENT IN 
DRESS HAS BEEN MAINTAINED 
THROUGH GENERATIONS BY YALE 
UNDERGRADUATES AND ALUMNI.
It is therefore a significant tribute that well-dressed 
Yale men prefer trousers and slacks equipped withi 
Kover-Zip, the invisible seamline closure.
Further evidence of Kover-Zip's correctness fro in 
th standpoint of style is its approval by Yale's 
leading college tailors.
 .  famous yak and "Harvard tailor 
for over 40 ytars, saysOur custom 
tailoring establishments in New Haven, Cambridge and New 
York, always scrupulously cautious in tlie acceptance of design 
innovations, whatever their origin, are nevertheless responsive 
to every style development that is In good taste.
"Although we have been witness to  growing favor for the 
zipper fly, we could not accept the ordinary 6lide fastener as 
fit for fine clothes. The hew covered zipper, however, does 
meet our standards in every respect and we are now pre
pared to equip trousers and slacks with the Kcvcr-Zip fly.
Ouiibz.nd.iiuj college fallen
.K,iL
custom clotlt&i
itliiet* crjj attjlc, 
ultj slide ^astenet
Ctcerts Hold Supper 
Meeting Thurs, Night
 Cwens,' womons sophomoro'hbn-' 
orary. society, will hold a Bipper 
meetlng'Thursday evening at 0:30; - 
The purpose of the meeting which 
will be given In the Womens Club 
Room, la to discuss future plans for tho year,Barbara Yoakum 37, (Department r of Painting and Design, Is president of Cwens. Dorothy J. Booth-. 37, Department of Costumo Economics, ' and Barnetta Davis 37^ Department of Painting and DV . sign, are in charge of the aupper. .
Debating is like apple, pie; c lot : of apple sauce covered up ,w.itli______cruat,Duqucsna Duke:........ ... ...
Advertisement,^
COLLEGE MEN PREFER CLOTHES MADE WITH INVISIBLE CLOSURE
Stylq experts and fashion' authorities are 
well aware that ihe preferences of college . 
men foirn an important and dependable In
dication of the trend in men's apparel.
 One detail of mens clothing which until 
now has never been satisfactory is the fiy of - 
the trousera. The buttoned fly, no matter 
how carefully made, is bulky because of the 
extra' fold of material required; it bulges and 
wrinkles in a way that is most unsightly.. , 
ThesUde-fafltgnedflygivesa*much smooth- ' 
or and neater effect in front than' is posible 
with* buttons but the ordinary slide fastener i 
has an uncovered Btrip ol racial that Is ob
jectionable to men who take pride in being 
well-dressed.
The new inviaiblo style-line closure, the' 
Kover-Zip fly, has eveiy practical advantage . 
ot the ordinary zipper, and in addition is 
superior^ to it from the standpoint of good - 
tsstebecausenometalshowsthe units of the  
fastener are concealed by a grosgrain ribbon 
that harmonizes with the fabric of the trou- - 
sei^ and is guarnn teed to outlast the garment.
The Kover-Zip fly has beenacdaimedand 
adopted by best-dressed seniors in Amer
ica's foremost colleges, and a typical expresion of opinion about this invisible seam* 
line closure, the finest and most expensive 
slide fastener-made, is the following state
ment by Robert L. Henderson of Harvard, .
class of 1934:
The covered zipper 
for the trouser fly la :. 
the most practical and 
stylish, device yet hit v 
upon ... it does away ; 
with the objectionable v 
atrip of metal seen in V 
the ordinary .zipper.-*. ; ; 
College men every*: 
where, from Cambridgeto Palo Alto, welcomed 
the Kover-Zip fly and now demand it.alikeon dress trousers, informal suits and slacks. 
Smooth , and smart efficient and durable, 
Kover-Zip is the closure for all modem dothes :
\ U HENDERSON
Jj&o --------
..it makes the 
tobacco mi tiler
Girls* Debating Unin 
Meets on Thursday
The regular meeting of the:
Thursday at 12:5
the Education of its Ail women are cordially invited to attend and participate -in " Informal .discussion. ............
439 WOOD STREETT-he-Only LaJrd Operated Siero
until, l:?t, und;from 3:30 .to *530- nv Wnesdis.
J Ai BpeciiLi- price - arrangent en^ Xas ^n made .with.the l>ari'y. studlot
of Pittsburgh. ,The regular charge 
for a studio slttingja The rservation' f'iositon adThSt tir io one dollar. Under the terms-of the arrangement both^ a yferbAk subscription anddrdwit: portrt Pitting may lii______ _
Lassi es -  - Here Is A Tartan Kiltie
.95
5 0 STYLES
...' A'eharrfiihg shoe in
Black ot Brown 
Suede that flatters 
 the foot. Trimmed 
.with, a /clever interlacing of kid.
Tlie Kiltie Tongue 
is detachable. at Will 
and the heel is just 
right.
LAIRD
439 WOOD STREET Just a Step From Fifth

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN,; TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1934
II
THE 
CAR N  G IE 
PLAID
a Editorial Boexd ot t
The Right Spirit
It has been gratifying to _.the. recent Response .of the nlpht Students to the appeals for contributions made by the Plaid. The quality of the subject matter sub*
wishes to thank all those who have submitted articles, and urges ever; one with writing.ability to foikr the example of those who have al-. ready contributed.
The Stratosphere
of the earth have attracted much
. he modified, and other have been discovered. Similarly, we might compare the average first year man os the sight campus to one of these intrepid balloonists. He is launching himself forth upon a program that is mysterious to him. His knowledge of what to expect is gleaned from the
nental equilibrium for some weeks. 
' If the student has developed knack of critical self-analysis, he
have arrived at by study of the new data provided by the strato- sphere flights. The'most important thing he learns Is that night school Is' entirely different from any  catlonQl flights he may have taken heretofore. Some of his classmaLes are mature, with years of experience behind them. Some have hnd the advantage of having spent one or more years in college in the day
ing with older and enced men, he finds that his'theories concerning himself mus . revamped in the light of the knowledge he has gained by <
 knowledge of self thus gained to good use. he will find in after 'years that one of the most Import' satisfying reward that can be obtained either from collegiate, industrial or professional effort.
NIGHT LIGHTS
Ted Warners favorite pastry :
dustries men with, favors for.thelr smoker . . . included among them Were painters hats (to wear when painting the town red, of course). . .;. Bob iLahr (not to be confused  with Russell Lahr, hd of the impish eyes) graduated last year and came back this year to prove he can.take it . . . They ell me he .  remember Carnegie dlsa. and
. Bill Vensel attended th< Industries Smoker, but couldnt quite make the Engineering affair  . . Cherchez la femme . . . Nell:.; Blochinger, with thejaame problem (?) managedboiri ,-T /'IVlaiier.  Jlrst year man, was close to Ed Sip- .Siler; last year In the number of points for . activities . . . Last " year's poster contest, which.
first ever held by the Council and ' was so successful that a repeat is planned at the end of the year . . . ..You  collogiaies, . attention:JEven
.the handbooks . . . Favorite ambl* ?tlons. dept . . . to get an Arts school' locker open in one tty.:
dents wearing letters or insignia . of'other schools on the campus or ' at athletic events.
LARGEST SELECTION OF PORTABLE AND STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS 
$14.95 to- $75.00Liberal Terra. . . . Free Trl.l SENS-.A-.Tn!E.WWT5..' _ First Throe Months' Rental Applies to Purchase Price.
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO.644 LIBERTY AVENUE
STUDENTS
WANTED  Five hundred Typewriters, all' makes, Portables and- Standards, sold rented* repaired. $3.00 one month 910.00 five months;-
~ American Writing Machine CompanyV; 601 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantk 648B- &M Our Schoolr$presentaUve
Idle Thoughts 
of an 
Idle Night 
Student
Well, I guess.- I.have noticed eral of the newcomers standing- around wondering what the next turn is going to be. Yes, it Is fact that these new students have never attended a place of learning ince they finished their high school and that they are entering upon a new course of study.
That commenting upon the suggestion'made in last week's issue of the TartanPlaid to the night students  concerning the speak
attitude of tlder 6tudent6 whom | have met Ir ny couple of years' ramble on th<
That from the statistics published we still have Industries with us. The registration figures given recently indicate that there were 767 Industries students competing with 761 Engineering. I suppose it. is difficult to absorb In so short a timj such a large group as was once listed as Industries. I am wondering who will win the con* test in the lost analysis.
That we are going to get more light on the campus. At least we are told that floodlights, are planned for the campus dark spots. Well, | thought all the students on our campus were bright spots, and that being the case, why the need for floodlights )n the dark corners
Carnegie Grill Is 
Ideai Restaurant
Cafeteria Offers Convenient 
Facilities to Students
While the Carnegie Grill has been located on the Campus since wuy back when, most of the students have given It a glance in passing and forgottcn-about it. Thewritei decided recently that perhaps this was not a it should be, or he wae himself: guilty of this indifference. So, a tour of Inspection was made, resulting In the conclusion that If there Is a more cleanly restaurai that offers better service or moi appetizing menus, it does not exist to the writers knoweldge. The poor patronage of the night dents is regrettable, for r of us Inconvenience ourselves by getting our meals on the wa class when we have them waiting ue right on the campus. Why give the Grill a tryout? The entence of its location and the undeniable fact that you couldnt obtain better food or service anywhere in the neighborhood are not the only points in its favor. The patrons are students of Carnegie almost to a man (or woman) and will make acquaintances . that will well repay you for doing your self a favor.
Complaint Registered 
On Remark in Column
To the Editor:Dear Sir:I wish to render an objection to the remark made by. one of your
by the Council of & plate to identify the.gift of Mr. Kent D. Shaffer. I feel that it is had taste to look gift horse in the mouth and offend an individual who has always a-stsuuok supporter, o th& night students.Yours very truly 
A NIGHT STUDENT.
Eight hundred pounds of rye
[Liberty Engraving Company]?
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY,
COLOR,NEWS end COMMERCIAL' 
^ART^- 
FOR ALL ILLU STRATIVE 
PURPOSES
Cathedral
mansions
DINING ROOM 
/or SUNDAY DINNER
d delicious meal, 
served^wcll, in a 
pleasant place 
ewidtmdhlY >ar.y drs 
s1rriw iuiwo sdo
Special 'Dfntrig Kfionts for Private Portia
Call MISS DRISCOLL
Foe ReiemtionaMAfflower 6100 
Blsvonfc Avceue ud Clyde Street
1
C. A. Blochinger to Preside 
Over 34-\35 Night Council
Incumbent Was President 
Of Night College of 
Ind. Last Year
the Night Student Council. The
Council is In accord- with the laws governing the appointment of this officer as recognized In the constitution.
Mr. Blochlnger is at present'reg- istered In the Works Management
bich is sow included in th< courses offered by the College of Engineering, due rangements which have lately been adopted by the Administrant 
During the several years that he has spent on the campus. Mr. Blochinger has been very active in working for student projects. He has served as Secretary and Vice- President of the College of Industries during previous years and last year served in the capacity of President of that College. In addition, Mr. Blochinger was Social
office contributed greatly success of the Council affairs of the 1933-34 season. Mr. Blochlnger
organization being directly due to the fine work that he did In connection with the -many and varied jobs for student activities.
The student body must realize that the position of President of the Night Student Council can be filled satisfactorily only with the support of the students. Mr. Blochinger, we are suro, will do his part, well but.it is up to the student body to support his undertakings. The staff of the Carnegie Plaid has pledged support to .Mr. Blochlnger and joins with the inPitt Students Aref 
Safety Valve Guests
named chairman .of that commltlod by Neal L: Vinson 35, officer of the Carnegie R. O. T. C. As the
elded to continue at this week1 meeting after the Pitt students have spoken They  will' also Join in this Informal discussion.Other speakers will be Invited to some of the meetings during the
genuine money in circulation.
Approximately 110,000,000 worth ot gold is contained In a cubic mile of sea water.
Didja Notice
THAT a certain curly headed nleht- student still cant make his choice between subjects and
THAT- If any Industries student makes a hobby, of collecting catalogues, he must have enjoyed the smoker.- TW'AT th*C^w&ir Rosnv-is-in- a doleful condition, because of the recent absence of the Councils erstwhile Greta Garbo.THAT the Council has the guns all ready, and is prepared for -the action  of the coming year.THAT since this has been printed, I have been placed under heavy guard.THAT that's that and Ill be
I d;i an
COACH LINES
Buses to all points
New York S7.S0 13.50
Chicago... 8,50 IS,30
Detroit.'..'
Boston..
5.50 9.90
and
all points from coast 
to coast.
For further 
information call
COurt 9500
C. A. -BLOCHINGER
International 
Show Viewed 
Sans Alarni
Roving Reporter Breaks 
Date to Bring Vivid 
View of Exhibit
What whole Bix foot book eholYQB could I write on this sub' ject. One has to try the task before It is possible to Understand the strain under which one must work in order to bring tho dear public the. absolulo most of the positive best. Anyway, in accordance with the regulations of-the big pipes of this organ, I was pointed art critic fpr the Ditching a date with one of the most ravishing red-heads you saw, I went to suiter for my Im not an artist, but I wen suffer anyway. The first thing that I looked up was the first prize winner. Words failed me. Tho big thing about these plctui seems to be the reaction. But then. I'm not a reactionary myself always vote a straight Democratic ticket (fee advt.).To Try CanvassingSince viewing this Men on the Plying Trapeze, I have come to. the conclusion that . since they are paying good money for reactions on canvas. Im going to buy an old sail, get a few reactions North of Fodty-Nine, and gather a few shekels unto myself.
While sitting at my desk wondering what else to write, I got a reaction from the red-head I spoke of. It seems that she doesnt understand me or my art. Imagine. Sfie's mad because I broke a date to take her to the football game,. I told her that I had to view the'lh- ternatlonal but she insisted that ] only went because It was free! "
} DRESS MAKING AND 
ALTERATION MBS. ANDERSON
5176 WOODLAWN AVENUE Corner Forbes MAyflower 8543 
Holds Smoker
Souveniers Distribute]. 
Among Those Present
Officers Elected
H. Stone, Bleumlc, Drensen, 
Durbin Carry Election
The Night College of Industries 
held their annual Election Smoker 
In the Union on Saturduy evening,
the Council are H. B. Stone President, A. W. Blueinle as Vice- President with E. TV. Drensen and H. Durbin serving as Secretary and Treasurer respectively. These men have all' been active in campus affairs and need no further inlroWhile the election was the prlncidid not slight the entertainment. It has always been the endeavor of the. Industries group to make this annual function as interesting and colorful, as possible, but It is felt that this years effect was outstanding. Immediately upon-entering the ball the student was presented with a' white painter6 cap, the donation of a local paint
ariety of 6ouveniers and literature of nationally known manufacturers. Among the various other interestrazor blades. These blades in envelopes devised especially for this occasion, bearing a very clever little verse concerning the excellence ot the contents. Altogether thirty-eight
and co-operation.
The program for tho evening w; starlet off by Mr. H. B. Stone ;
, the magician. There
H. B. Stone Elected President 
Of Night Industries College
i also a moving picture, one of
Among tho9ewho enjoyed the show were several invited guests of the Council. These guests were Messrs,Shaffer, Dosing and Blackwell, in struc tries.the College of IndusThe climax of the program wasthe election of the school officers, the results of which have been given previously. Following the election, a lunch was served. The food was appetizing and delicious
this affair.
The attendance was above the 
average which, in itself, is an encouraging sign to those in charge
of the students who were present should be an added spur to doing bigger and better things. Altogether the smoker was very successful and the Social Committee is to be congratulated.
Th* Hotel
$1.00 Cover Including 
Breakfast at Midnight
INFORMAL
Will Ryshanek and bis popular Hotel Schenley Orchestra
Netv Officer Has Obtained 
Much Experience in 
Night Activities
 Mr. H. B. Stone was elected 
President of the Night College ol 
Industries at the smoker recently- held by that college. In addition to that office, Mr. Stone holds the position of Night Social Chairman by appointment of the Council. The experience acquired by Mr. Stone through the various capacities In which he has previously
ry oat the duties of these two responsible offices.
Mr. Stone is a well known figure on the Night Campus. A student in the College of Industries for several years, he has been active in campus affairs and has held several major offices under Council. Mr. Stone has been Treasurer of the College in which he is enrolled, and, last year, served as Assistant Social Chairman under Mr. C. A. Blochlnger. In the general work of the Council Mr. Stones effoi are'attested by the award of three Insignias. He has also performed
pet Keys. In addition to these
ternlty and has ' sexyed as vice- president of that organization.
The stall of the Plaid joins with the student body In offering Mr. Stone good wishes for a successful tenure of office.
ty-proof individual to
Art School to 
Hold Dance on 
Armistice Day
Art Students Will Hold 
First School Dance 
In Thistle Hall
Plans for the Night College or Fine Arts Dance are rapldlv tear Jog completion. The dance, which will be held In Thistle Hall on Monday evening, November 12 j expected to draw a lorge attend once since this date is a holWa* and no classes are ciieuuied.
The committee in charge of ih0 affair have, as yet, made no defin. ite announcement as to the orchestra, but several prominent groups of musicians are being considered Several novelties are being pian>
opportunity of the cunent season for the students to relax from the strain of registration and studies
socially intimate with their fello*
toward a.n Insignia award c tor working at the dance. AU jj! terestcd persons are requested lo
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
5823 FORBES STREET
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Go.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
THE OAKLAND 
BANK

IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
d
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Lets find out why
Turkish tobacco is so important 
to. a good cigarette
On the sitnhy slopes of 
Smyrna ... in the fertile 
fields of Macedonia... along 
the shores of the Black Sea 
. ..grows a kind of tobacco
other tobacco in the world.
T
HESE Turkish tobaccos 
are the only tpbaccos of 
foreign cultivation that are 
used to any great extent in 
making American cigarettes.
Turkish tobaccos are famous 
for their spicy aroma, and a 
blend of the right kinds of 
Turkish tobacco with our own 
home-grown tobaccos is better 
than any one kind used alone. 
In Chesterfield we balance 
mild, rife tobaccos growti 
' in this country with just the 
righi amounts of the right 
kinds of Turkish, .
It is by blending and crossNariw ubaao g-mwer blending these different tobac1 III1 cs ^at we make Chesterfield the cigarette thats milder^ the' 
cigarette that tastes better.MONDAT WEDNESDAY SATURDAY 
RSA NtNoj CRETE
PONSELLE MARTIXJ STUECKGOLD
B?CHARLEHCS ?hD^LdCNR ROf DT?TFV
9 PM, (E.S T ) ^COLUMBIA NETWORK
