EXHIBITION NIGHT 
ALL DEPARTMENTS 
FRIDAY - 7:00 P. M.
TECHDEM TEA DANCE 
JERRY McGEORGE 
TOMORROW - 4:30 P. M.
VOL. XXV, No. 26.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1931.
ALL SCHOOLS TO TAKE PART IN EXHIBITION
R.O.T.C. and Kiltie Band 
Will Parade on Cut 
at 7 O'Clock
PARENTS TO BE GUESTS
Students to Work Under 
Regular Schedules in 
Laboratories
Original patterns in dresses, suits, 
and millinery will be featured in the 
Costume Economics fashion show to 
be given during the annual Exhibi
tion Night program on next Friday 
evening, April 24.
On this evening, Carnegie will again 
hold open house for visitors. Stu
dents will be at work in the various 
shops, studios and laboratories to 
demonstrate some of the aspects of 
technical training. This year, the 
parents of the freshmen have been 
invited as special guests.
The retreat parade, in which the 
full R* 0. T. C. organization and
the Kiltie Band will take part, is 
scheduled for 7 oclock. This is a 
formal review of the unit by hon
orary and cadet officers, and will 
take place on the cut adjoining the 
Morewood avenue entrance.
President Baker will be in the
Dean's officc in Administration hall 
from 7:30 to 9:30 to receive visitors.
Theater T o Present Programs
Three students from the Depart
ment of Music will take part in a 
program to be presented in the Lit
tle Theater of the College of Fine
Arts at eight and nine o'clock. 
JJcbuBuySoiree duns Grennde 
.Wedding MnrchPk-^iRfV--------/y Bess Moraloclc
McarlattL ----------------------------------La Violette
Ialconierl  _________ Occhiclti AmntiI Evolyn Pfeifer
Ttfoiprlr ~______liuno Quartet In G minor
Allegro 
Marion Swan, piano 
Jeannette. FIhcIioI, .violin 
Samuel Singer, viola 
Gladys Mitchell, cello 
AccompanistMatthew Frey 
This will alternate with the murder 
sccne from Macbeth, from the cur
rent production of the Drama De
partment, which will be given twice, 
nt eight-thirty and nine-thirty. The 
exhibition rooms of the Arts build
ing will show work done in the De
partments of Architecture, Painting, 
Decoration and Sculpture, On the 
second and third floors, drawings 
will he exhibited. .All the' studios 
will be,open for inspection, including 
the etching; and block-printing studio 
in room 300a.
Margaret Morrison to Exhibit 
In Margaret Morrison, the De
partment of Household Economics
 will show a nutrition exhibit and an 
exhibition of electrical equipment for 
the home. The Department of Psy
chology and Education will show 
psychological apparatus and demon
strate reaction time tests and color 
vision experiments. The Department 
of Social Work is scheduled for an 
exhibit of its activities and a chil
drens play room demonstration. 
Students will be at work in the 
Organic Chemistry laboratory.
The Hut will be open for visitors, 
(Continued on Page Four)
NOTICE!
All those holding favor stubs 
from the Womens Junior Prom 
are asked to turn them in at 
once.
Salesmen Must T urn 
in Thistle Orders 
April 24
All Thistle salesmen arc re
quested to report the number of 
sales and the money collected to 
either Mr. Davis at the "Y officc, 
or to Raymond Knopf, business 
manager of the Thistle, at the 
Thcta Xi house. Salesmen must, 
absolutely, report this week, as it 
is necessary to make a prcliminarj 
check on the number of books to 
be issued.
The Thistle staff have decided 
that the salesmens order books 
will be turned in on May 1. That 
means that all students must pur
chase their book on or before the 
closing date. J).s' the business po
sitions on the Thistle staff arc 
based upon the number of sales, 
all salesmen arc especially urged 
to complete as many sales as pos
sible.
Freshmen still have an oppor
tunity to try out as salesmen. The 
Activities credit and a chance to 
sccurc a position on the Thistle 
staff ougjit to be an incentive to 
report to Mr. Davis at the "Y 
officc for the order books and in
structions.
Students who wish to purchase 
Thistles but who have not been 
approached by a salesman, can 
leave their order at the. Y" officc. 
The purchase price is .$5.
Mrs. N. W Storer Is 
New President of 
Local Organization
Mrs. Norman W. Storer, well 
known to many Pittsburghers for 
her remarkable work for the Wom
ens Unitarian Alliance,\ recently ac
cepted the Presidency of the Pitts
burgh Section of . the Womens In
ternational League for Peace and 
Freedom. The resignation of Mrs. 
Charles Cooper, former President, 
was the result of her appointment as 
head of the Kingsley Association.
On presiding at her first meeting, 
Mrs. Storer stressed the importance 
of friendship beyond alliance, rather 
than alliance "without friendship. She 
wants to create a friendly spirit in 
helping the economist to secure peace
ful employment for men. Mrs. Storer 
advocated educating man in peace 
thought, and she told of the splendid 
work done along these lines by the 
League of Women Voters. She also 
urged the signing of petitions by the 
people to show the government that 
the citizens are voicing themselves 
for peace and disarmament,
The Womens International League 
holds meetings the first Tuesday of 
every month for the purpose of aid
ing in the realization of peace plans. 
Its meetings arc held at 12 oclock 
in Kaufmanns dining room, and arc 
followed at one oclock by the meet
ing of the executive board, when 
members and friends arc asked to 
(Continued on Page Four)
1 echdem Holds Tea 
Dance Wed., Apr. 22
 W. I-I. Sprcnklc, chairman of 
the social committee of the Teclidem club, has announced a tea 
dance to be given by the club 
in the Union tomorrow aftcrnoofi 
at 4:30. Music will be provided 
by Jerry McGeorgc and his popu
lar Carncgians. The admission 
will be thirty-five cents for men 
and twenty-five cents for women.
The Techdem club is made up 
of the past and present DeMolays 
on the Carnegie campus. Its 
regular meeting is being held at 
noon today; DeMolays are wel
come to attend.
DR. SCHOENS HUMAN 
NATURE PUBLISHED 
IN POPULAR EDITION
Acclaimed By Critics As 
Most Readable Book 
on Psychology
Dr. Schoens book, Human Nature 
has been acclaimcd anew by critics 
everywhere since a recent publication 
of the book in a popular edition.
Published last May, by September, 
Human Nature was adopted by over 
eighty colleges throughout the coun
try. In "Human Nature, the sub
ject of psychology is presented in an 
entirely new and more attractive 
manner. Dr. Schoen presents the 
views of the four schools, taking 
sides with none. The book deals 
with daily application of psychology 
as well as the theory of the sub
ject. It is conceded that psychology 
can not possibly be an exact science 
as physics is, but* still it is the only 
means available of learning about 
the human mind. To understand 
human personality it is necessary to 
perfect the science of psychology.
The first edition of the book was 
suitable for general reading, but 
primarily intended' for student use. 
The new edition is intended for the 
use of the general public and its 
thorough reading would assuredly im
prove our understanding Of human 
nature.
. Dr. Schocns book was welcomed 
enthusiastically by the New York 
Times critic, Harry Elmer Barnes, 
and the Herald Tribune has placed 
it on the list of outstanding spring 
books. Mr. Barnes speaks thusly of 
the book: Dr. Schoens book is un
questionably the clcvcrest and most 
competent introduction to psychology 
which has thus far appeared in Eng
lish.The publishers predict that the 
book will enjoy as wide a circula
tion as Robinsons Mind in the 
Making. 
(Continued on Page Four)
Y.M.&W.H.A. PRESENTS 
SEASONS FINAL PLAY
Ibsens Ghosts Selected For 
Presentation May 
4 and 5
"Ghosts," one of the most out
standing plays of the famous Nor
wegian author, Henrik Ibsen, will 
be the seasons final presentation 
of the Y. M. & W. H. A. Play
house on the evenings of Monday 
and Tuesday, . May 4 and 5.
Two of the principals in the cast 
have received their training at the 
Carnegie Drama School. Miss Alma 
Lind, a former student here, will 
play the leading feminine role, that 
of Mrs. Helen Helving; Helen 
Siscnwain, now attending the drama 
school, will act the part of Regina 
Engstrand. Opposite Miss Lind in 
the masculine lead will be Philip 
Greenwood in the role of Oswald 
Alving. Milton Brauinan plays the 
part of Pastor Mandcrs and Alfred 
E. . Smith will portray Jacob Eng;- 
strand.
"The fundamental note, Ibsen 
once wrote of the  play, shall be 
the richly flourishing spiritual life 
among us in literature and art; and 
then, as a contrast, all humanity 
astray on wrong paths. Ghosts 
is considered by some critics as the 
first of Ibsens plays which gave 
the full measure of liis technical 
and spiritual originality and daring. 
In this play, they claim, Ibsen be
comes at last the most modern 
of the modern.
 Helen R. Stuot, formerly of the 
Carnegie drama school faculty, will 
have charge of the entire produc
tion. The scenic art work will be 
in the hands of Frank Stout.
John Horning Chosen 
President of Y 
Cabinet
John C. Horning, a member of 
Delta Tau Delta social fraternity, 
was elected to the presidency of the 
Y. M. C. A. Cabinet for next year. 
The election was held recently among 
members of the campus organization, 
which is composed of both student^ 
and faculty members. John W. Ladd, 
Pi Kappa Alpha, was chosen vice'r 
president, and John Saylcs, Kappa 
Sigma, as sccrctarjr of the new cabil 
net. John Horning was the cabinet 
vice-president this year and John 
Ladd was secretary. Saylcs isi prcsi 
dent of the Freshman Cabinet.
 The new officers and cabinet mem
bers will be initiated in a differcni 
type of ceremony than has been hcli 
iii previous years. Heretofore, it has 
been customary to hold a formal 
banquet, but it has been decided by 
the cabinct to combine the initiation 
ceremonies with a planned trip with 
the Executive committee to Cooks 
Woods in Clarion County on May. 
16. The cabinct and committee will 
leave Saturday morning, May 16, and 
return Sunday afternoon, May 17.
The new officers and Mr. R. V. 
Davis, Logan Webster, Fred Stengel 
and William H. Adams, attended the 
State Officers Training Conference 
at Clarion last Friday, Saturday and; 
Sunday. Each year a training con-; 
fcrencc for the new officials and. 
anyone else interested is held in' 
Western Pcnns3'lvania to offer in
struction and thoughts for next years 
work.
George Pillsbury represented the 
local organization at a three _ day 
conference held at Pitt last week
end. Bruce Curry was the main 
speaker. %
A cabinct meeting, which will 
probably be the last one to be held, 
this year, will be held next Tues-j 
day, April 28, in the Womens Din-' 
ing Room at 11:30.
PROFESSOR! PIJOAN TO 
LECTURE HERE APRIL 27
Professor Joseph Pijoan, of the 
University of Barcelona, Spain;''will' 
give a public lecture Monday, April 
27, at 4:30 p. m. in the Little 
Theater. His subject is the Cor
relation of Modern Art, and Con
temporary Thought.
Professor Pijoan is . at present a 
Visiting Professor at the University 
of Chicago. In 1922; lie was a 
member of the faculty at1 the Uni
versity of Southern California. In 
1924, lie went abroad to the Uni
versity of Barcelona, and. in the 
following year, did  graduate work 
at the University of Rome. Dur
ing the next two years, lie was 
again associated with the University 
of Barcelona, as a professor. He is 
Secretary of the Unstitut dEtudes 
Catalans, and a trustee of the 
museums there.
No cards of admission to the 
lecture arc required.
Novel Tea Dance To 
Extend From 4:30 
to 8:00
Phi Mu Alpha, national, musical 
honorary fraternity, will hold a 
novel tea dance in the Union with
in the next few weeks, according 
to information released by the 
fraternity. The society" plans to 
start the dance at 4:30 and keep 
the music going until 8:00, two 
hours longer than the customary 
time, for the regoilar admission 
price of 25 cents for women and 
35 cents for men. The extension 
of time has  been planned because 
of the fact that invitations will be 
(Continued on Page Four)
DR. A. HOUGHTON WILL 
ADDRESS SENIORS ON 
COMMENCEMENT DAY
Senior Booklets Remain 
on Sale Until April 
24
Dr. Alanson B. Houghton of 
Corning, N. Y., has acccptcd Dr. 
Bakers invitation to act as speaker 
on commencement day, Tuesday, 
June 9. Dr. Houghton received his
B.A; degree at Harvard in 1886 
and received an L.Ld. degree from 
the same school in 1927. He has 
been active in politics and in the 
diplomatic service. From 1922 till 
125 he acted as United States 
Ambassador to Germany. Follow
ing this Dr. Houghton held the 
post of ambassador to Great Britain 
Until his resignation in 1928. On 
his return to this country he was 
a candidate for the United States 
Senate.
Dr. Baker has also announced 
that the Rev. William H. Boddy,
D.D., who is pastor of the First 
Presbyterian Church of Chicago, 
will deliver the Baccalaureate ser
mon on Sunday evening, June 7, at 
the Carnegie Music- Hall.
Final arrangements for com
mencement week arc expected to 
be completed in the near future.
The senior booklets which take 
the place of commencement an
nouncements, were on sale in the 
front hall of the Administration 
building all this week. Those who 
did not purchase them at that time 
may obtain them from any member 
of the committee in charge of the 
booklets. Imogcne Schory is the 
chairman of the committee. She 
is assisted by the Mortar Board.
The booklets arcof two kinds, one 
of dark navy blue leather and the 
other of White cardboard. The 
prices, for the two styles arc 50 
cents and 25 cents respectively. 
The booklets contain the names 
and colleges of the graduating 
seniors, the commencement pro
gram, pictures of class officers, and 
a picture of . each college. Both day 
and night school students arc in
cluded.
FIFTEEN ELECTED IN 
CAMPUS QUEEN VOTE
Queen and Two Assistants to 
Be Chosen in Last Ballot, April 24
The following girls were chosen as 
the fifteen candidates for campus 
queen at the preliminary election 
which was held Thursday, April 16. 
From Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College: Betty Steele, Carol Reese, 
Ida Campbell, Pauline Dixoti, Kay 
Palen, Martha Lou Clarke, Ann 
Dickinson, Grace Borgcrding, Sally 
Beatty, Billie Bair, Ruth Liebcrman, 
and Agnes Harmon were chosen. 
Margaret Kunklc, Pauline Baucrsmith 
and Ann Bussc were elected from 
Art School.
The second and final election will 
be held on April 24. The girl receiv
ing the most votes in this election 
will be campus queen. The two girls 
having the next highest number of 
votes will be her assistants. The 
remainder of the candidates will also 
take part in the. coronation.
The preferential system of ballot
ing will be used which will do away 
with the necessity of having more 
than one election. The Freshmen of 
Engineering and Industries will vote 
in Administratipn hall. All upperclass
men will vote in the buildings in 
which they are registered. This is 
done so that no one will be able to 
vote more than once. It is required 
that all ballots be signed by the 
voters.
Harold Brennan, Arts 32, Chosen
President Of Student Council
At the Student Council meeting 
on, April 14, Harold J. Brennan was 
elected president; Edward H. Kel
ler, vice president; Rosalind Mitschelcn, sccrctarj', and James A. 
Corrigan, treasurer. The new offi
cers will assume their respective 
positions at the beginning of the 
school term next fall and hold 
them throughout the year.
At the same meeting, council ap
proved the budgets for the Com
bined Senior Ball, the Spring Car
nival and the Freshman Spring 
Dance.
Mr. Brennan will be a senior 
next year in the Department of 
Painting and Decorating, Arts 
school. He is a graduate of Butler 
College and a member of the Butler 
chapter of Delta Tau Delta, social 
fraternity. Mr. Brennan was re
cently clected president of the Arts 
senate. During the past -school 
year, he was president of the junior 
class and chairman of the Arts 
Ball.
Next year, Mr. Keller will be a 
senior commercial engineer. f-Ic is 
a member of Phi Kappa, social 
fraternity and of Scabbard and 
Blade, military honorary society. 
He will be president of the Engin
eering senate next year.
Miss Mitschelen, who was 
elected secretary for next year will 
be a senior in the Secretarial De
partment of Margaret Morrison. 
She has. served as one of the assis
tant secretaries on Council this 
year. She is a vice president of
HAROLD BRENNAN,
New President of Student Council.
the Secretarial Club and a member 
of the Womans Activities Point 
System Board and Guild Board. In 
addition, Miss Mitschelen was-a 
member of the Womens Junior 
Prom Committee.
Mr. Corrigan, who is a Junior in 
the Building Construction Depart
ment, College of Industries, is a 
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 
social fraternity. He served on 
(Continued on Page Four)
PI DELTA EPSILON TO 
MAKE ANNUAL CALL
Pi Delta Epsilon, national jour
nalistic honorar}--, will make its an
nual call during Campus Week. The 
initiation exercises and the annual 
banquet will be held shortly after
ward; the definite dates will be 
announced later. The fraternity, 
which is composed of outstanding 
men on the staffs of student pub
lications, is confronted, this year, 
with the problem of re-organizing 
the THISTLE in order to place it 
<?n a profitable basis.
W. H. Worland, president of the 
fraternity, and E. E. ' MacDonald,, 
secretary, have just returned from 
a national convention which was 
on April 16, 17, and 18. Men  on 
the staffs of the publications of 
numerous colleges attended : the 
convention; the purpbsc of which 
was to discuss improvement of the 
literary, and business management 
of school publications.'
Tau Beta Pi Will Hold 
Initiation April 
29
The spring initiation banquet of 
Tau Beta Pi. will be held at 6:30 
p. m., April 29, in the Venetian 
Room of Webster Hall Hotel. The 
formal initiation will be held in the 
Faculty Club rooms in the Admin*- 
istration Building, beginning '.at,..5 
p. m., after which the members 
will adjourn to Webster Hall for 
the banquet.
The men who are to receive the 
initiation are as follows: Howard 
Seifert, Henry Evans, Harry IColb, 
Jack Morris, Harold Cohen, John 
Bohnert, Paul Wile, Fred Stitt, and 
Igor Karassik.
AH members of the alumni of 
Tau Beta Pi residing in the Pitts
burgh district are invited to attend 
the banquet. All those, that are 
planning to attend a!re requested 
to inform Howard Maxwell at the 
Phi  Sigma Kappa House on 
Broughton St.reet^as soon as possi
ble.
Hal Kemp And His 
Orchestra To Play 
During Senior Ball
Annual Affair Will Be 
Held At Schenley 
Hotel
Hal Kemps orchestra, one of the 
'best college bands on the road, 
has been secured to play for the 
annual Senior Ball this year. 
Kemps orchestra will be one of 
the most nationally prominent or
chestras that -has- ever -played- for 
a Tech affair. It plays for the 
National Broadcasting Chain- and 
has been at\ practically all of the 
big schools of the East.
The Senior Ball will be held in 
the Schenley Hotel on Friday, May 
1, from 9 until .2 oclock. The 
committee in charge made an at
tempt to secure a country club 
for the affair, as in former years, 
but some of the clubs haven't as 
yet opened and those that have 
require a dinner dance in order 
to . sccurc the club house.
The Senior Ball is not a closed 
affair, though it is primarily for 
the combined senior classes of the 
four schools. It is held each year 
during the spring term. Seniors 
in the Library School arc invited 
(Continued on Page Four)
Freshmen Girls Will 
Sponsor Play Day
The freshman girls will hold a 
play day on Thursdaj', April 23, 
from 3 to 5 o'clock on the girls 
new athletic field on the cut. The 
purpose of this play day is to bet
ter acquaint the dormitory girls 
and the commuters.
The committee, in charge of 
Martha Toerge, social chairman of 
the freshman class of Margaret 
Morrison, has arranged a program 
which includes vollej-ball, baseball, 
archery and tennis. Two novel 
features of the afternoon will be 
roller skating and rope jumping. 
Refreshments will conclude the aftMACBETH TO OPEN THURS. IN ARTS THEATER
Department Produces Play; 
With Elizabethan 
Stage
B. IDEN PAYNE TO DIRECT
Play Will Commemorate 
Shakespeares 367th 
Birthday
In commemoration of the three 
hundred and sixty-seventh anniver
sary of Shakespeares birth on May 
3, the Drama Department will pre
sent the tragedy, Macbeth, be
ginning Thursday, April 23, and 
continuing every night until May
6, with stuacnt matinees on Friday 
afternoons. The play is under the 
direction of B. Iden Payne, who 
has  returned every year for this 
purpose since he left Carnegie.
Macbeth is being produced in 
the Elizabethan manner. The same 
type of theater and costumcs as 
Avas found at the first production in 
1610 arc being used.. This is fit
ting because Shakespeare wrote the 
play for the Renaissance people of 
his day, who would not have un
derstood it produced in any other 
manner. They said: A plays a 
play; we do not comc to the thea
ter to sec life; we have that around 
us constantly. A play such as is 
found on the contemporary stage 
would have, been thought mere 
childs play.
Shakespeares art was greatly af
fected by the Elizabethan stage. 
The stage, open on three sides, 
projected half way into the pit, 
and was provided with a protect
ing ' roof overhead supported in 
some cases by pillars. The absence 
of scenery; of. women actors, and 
of a front curtain, the use of a 
bare stage that served for unspeci
fied localities, naturally influenced 
the composition" of a play. But die 
theatrical presentation was by no 
means as crude or as medieval as 
these differences from modern 
practice seem to indicate. On the 
contrary, dramatic invention was 
encouraged.
Macbeth has apparent suprem
acy as an acting play. It is great 
tragedy, although of the two neces
sary elements of tragedy it has but 
one. It works by terror alone, and 
docs not arouse pity. The char
acters on whom the interest cen
ters arc not the innocent sufferers, 
but the guilty workers of woe, and 
as such make no demands on our 
affections. Macbeth stands alone 
among Shakespeares'great produc
tions as a picture of crime and 
retribution unrelieved by any softer 
features. It is the most pictur
esque, the most lurid and fiercely 
rapid of all tragedies.
The source of the plot Shake
speare took from Holinshcds 
Chronicles of Scottish History. 
The historical prototypes of the 
tragedy lived about 1040. The ac
tual Macbeth seems to have had 
as good a right to the throne as 
"Duncan, both being grandsons of 
a former king. Lady Macbeth 
was also suggested by another pas
sage from the same source. That 
the play was written shortly after 
the accession of James I when a 
Scottish theme was appropriate 
(Continued on Page Four)
NOTICE!
All petitions for class officers 
due in the Y office Tuesday, 
April 21, at 4 p. m.
FIFTEEN CANDIDATES FOR CAMPUS QUEEN CHOSEN IN PRELIMINARY ELECTION
Pauline Baucrsmith, Pauline F. Dixon, Grace L. Borgerding, Elizabeth Steele, Katharine A. Palen, Agnes E. Harman, Carol Reese, Sara W. Beatty, Ruth Liebcrman, Margaret J. Kunkle, Roby Elizabeth Bair, Ida Campbell, Ann Marie Bussc.
Two candidates, Ann Dickinson and Martha Lou Clark, are missing from picture.
Courtesy, Pittsburgh Sun-Tclegraph.

---------------------------------------------------

'''PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1931.
S P O R T S AND ALUMNI NEWS
VARSITY CINDER POUNDERS managed to ckc out a ,7:1;-61 victory over the strong P. A. A, team in an informal prac
tice meet last Saturday. Points piled up pretty evenly during 
.the track events, and .then Coach Halfertys men pulled the unexpected by winning a majority of the field events to clinch 
the mfeet,Several Plaid athletes had no regard for existing records. Big Jalin Karcis separated himself from the discus for a total 
'footage of J29, a new school record. Tom Coulter, sophomore flash, lowered the time in the quarter mile to 51.1, after having 
unraveled 120 yards over the low hurdles to the new tune of 13.4. Murray Armentrout pulled a fast one in the hammer 
throw. Second place was his best bet during the meet, but in a twirl following the fracas he heaved the ball and chain for 
a distance of'138 feet lO inches, officially breaking the school 
record. "Ramsey put out the real goods in the one mile grind. He 
traveled close on the heels of Adams, P. A. A. star, throughout the course. Only a yard kept Ramsey from first place at the 
[finish line.Sigmund, a second year man with scholastic difficulties, ran 
the gauntlet for the P. A. A. with a certain amount of success, 
fl-le took the century dash with a slim margin, and also carried iiway the honors in the broad jump, as well as a second in the 20.* However, his dash for P. Q.s at mid-year was unsuccess
ful, so another 12 months will pass before he can run in the 
ISldbo lanes.Seyboth, senior electrial, in working out on his 16 pound 
shot, equalled the school record set by Nimick in the Geneva 
Dual Meet of *27 by putting it 41 feet, 4^2 inches.* * * *
PLEBE TRACKERS hung a neat 63-27 defeat about the 
aiecks of the Peabody High; School boys. Their decisive victory may. be considered a pleasant inkling toward the results of the 
;coming season; however, the competition was rather 'light. A 
gaze at the summary shows that their squad is fairly good in spots with an apparent weakness in the 220 and 100-yard dashes. 
Arcxt Saturday afternoon the Plcbcs will meet Schenley High in 
the Plaid bowl.* * * * *
THE WRESTLING RACKET is smouldering 'under a fair 
amount of interest which is the result of a little more than a 
week full of work-outs. The majority of the squad is as green as they comc so the practices have been conducted along very 
fundamental lines. Tlie call is still on for any would-be grapplers who want to try their hand at this sport.It must be kept in minnd that intercollegiate wrestling 
differs greatly from the professional game. The latter is based on torturing holds that arc executed in such a way to satisfy 
the cash customers that arc always eager for a barbarous battle. 
The students interpretations of wrestling is held within the 
"bound's of intelligence where the winner of a match is deter-tminecl by the points he has gained during the contest.
* + * * +
APPARENTLY the Carnegie students are under the im/pre-ssion that very few people will suffer from drowning this Km rimer. This opinion was reached from the fact that there 
.we; ,i'e two applicants who reported for the annual course in Red iC-Voss Life Saving. Unless an additional number put in anappearance, Coach Riscdorph will discontinue the classes. This
seems to be an opportunity that is going to waste, for a senior 
life saver's certification is most helpful while seeking certain 
'Jobs for the summer.? * I* * *
N INTRA-MURAL SOFTBALL LEAGUE is in 
the act of satisfying the popular demand for astudent activity during the spring months. The
schedule calls for the opening game to be played
this afternoon on the lot behind the girls dorms.This competition is especially beneficial for it 
brings over 200 students into action.Attention is called to the fact that the soft
ball league is almost an over-night development. 
A meeting was held on Thursday and the games 
were under way the following Tuesday. Such 
juick action even rivals the abdication of European Kings.
It seems fitting that the opening game should be accompanied by some ceremony for this marks the debut of intra
mural competition on the mushball diamond. It is suggested that the president of something or other should toss out the first 
apple. The president of Student Council has a good wing, or 
it may even come down to the Dragon master.* * * * *
SICIBO TENNIS ASPIRATORS arc certainly the last ones to .suffer from the present attack of spring fever for their 
opportunity for a longer practice period this year seems to be in sight. With the initial match set for April 29, Coach Hoovers 
charges are wasting no time in rounding a suitable team into 
shape.The strength of this years combination is largely dependent 
upon the newcomers to the squad. Only three letter men of last year are available, Captain Morris, McCloskev, and Berghane.* * * * *
WELCH HALL BASKETEERS will enter the years re
tirement in the basketball line with that feeling of championship satisfaction, after having defeated the Pi K As and the S A Es 
v in two hotly contested games. These three teams represented the winners of the Intra-Mural 
leagues, and now the final champs, Welch Hall, 
will decide the city honors with the Kappa Nu! 
of Pitt in a single game across the creek on Wednesday night.
The Welchers held a slim lead throughout 
the game with the Pi K As, the dorm men fin
ishing up with a 28-22 score. What-a-Man 
OToole was assisted by Tubby Jalonaclc in  naking things look gloomy for the fraternity men. 
v The S A Es took the count from Welch Hall mainly 'through the timely efforts of Sketres who scored a dozen points 
for the winners. McCurdy put in a good night's playing for the 
fraternities. Coach Fergus, of Welch Hall, was much perturbed 
over the late rally staged by the opponents, but a few strategical moves put the game on ice for the dorm men.
FOR YOUR COMING FORMALS
Rent the Latest Style Hand-Tailored Tuxedo Suit 
and Accessories From Us.
ALL SIZES PERFECT FIT
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Day Phone: Nifrht Phonc:
ATLANTIC 95D5 EVERGLADE 091S-J
P SEASON MEET
Four School Records Broken 
And One Equaled In 
Practice Meet
For the first time 'in years a 
Carnegie track team vanquished the 
Pittsburgh Athletic:, Association in 
their annual pre-season warm up 
engagement. The 74-61 victory by 
the wearers of the Plaid gives one 
plenty of reason to believe that the 
track team will do big things dur
ing the coming season.
In the track events the two 
teams had about an even division 
of first places \vith Coulter captur
ing firsts in the low hurdles and 
the quarter mile and Ncase adding 
a first in the furlong to account 
for Carnegie's vistories on the cin
der path. The P. A. A. firsts were 
contributed by Work in the high 
hurdle event, Roy in the half mile, 
Adams in the mile and .Roche in 
the two-mile run,
In the field events Carnegies 
firsts were contributed by Karcis, 
Seyboth and Captain Barger. Kar
cis and Seyboth both contributed 
record breaking performances in 
their, events. The P. A. A. counted 
firsts on Works performance in 
the high jump, Dexters heave with 
the hammer, Fabinis javlin throw 
and Sigmund's broad jump.
The outstanding race of the meet 
was the , mile with Adams and 
Ramsey staging a hot dual for 
honors. The pluclcy Sophomore 
star hung right on the heels of his 
more experienced rival and came 
mighty close to nosing Him out at 
the finish. The performances of 
the newcomers in the weight events 
is particularly encouraging for these 
vents have been the cause of 
more than one Tartan defeat in the 
past.
Next Saturday the Plaid will in
augurate their collegiate campaign 
when they meet the strong West
ern Reserve outfit in the Bowl. 
Last year the Plaid traveled to 
Cleveland and opened the season 
with a victory over the Red Cats 
but only by a slender margin,
Net Squad Begins Work For Bethany il 29
With gopd weather here at last, 
Coach B. P. Hoover's tennis squad 
is now practicing regularly out of 
doors in preparation for (he open
ing meet with Bethany on April 29. 
This picet will be played on foreign 
territory and will be followed on 
May 1 by one at Duqucsnc's courts.
The varsity outlook is unusually 
bright this year, with several veteran 
netslers back in the, fold. In what 
few workouts that been held so far, 
Captain Mel Morris, although a hit 
erratic al times, has looked like the 
class of the field, and has according
ly been ranked No. 1. The team has 
also been materially strengthened by 
three sophomore stars; Groves, 
Dueger, and Fergus. Groves is rated 
as No. 3, and Dueger and Fergus 
rank fifth and sixth respectively. McCloskcy, No. 2, and Bcrghanc, No. 4, 
arc also rounding into shape nicely.
Coach Hoover is likewise very 
pleased with his freshman squad. 
Iiartig, a, freshman star last year at 
Michigan, and Pal Miller, captain of 
this years freshman swimming team, 
have added much strength to the 
yearlings, and a banner season is ex
pected. At present the freshman team 
is ranked as follow:: Hartig, Corshenhauscr, Lowes, Erie, and Miller.
Included on this years varsity 
schedule is an eastern trip, when 
Buckncll, Temple, and Georgetown 
will be met on successive days.
The schedule:
April 29Bcthafiy there.
May 1Duqucsne there.
V
Keep in Mind
College Parties, Class 
and Fraternity Affairs 
catered at reasonable 
prices. Ask for Menus 
and Estimate.
PastriesIce Creams 
IccsCakes  Candies 
Nuts  delivered as 
needed. Phone your or
der.
Equipment , rentedTa
bles, Chairs, Linens, 
China, Glassware  in 
any quantity.
Try our noon and eve
ning lunches when in 
Eart Liberty. ,
Stores Hours:
8 A. M. to 11:30 P. M.
Rocks Boys Carry On

With the slogan, Carry On!" symbolic of the spirit of their late 
leader, Coach ICnute Rockne, to spur them on, Notre Dame's coaching 
staff and players resume spring football practice. The three chaps in 
the foreground constitute the new Irish . board of grid strategy; They 
arc, left to right, Junior Coach Jack Chcvigny, Assistant Coach John 
(Ike) Voedisch and Senior Coach Hcartlcy (Hunk) Andcrsonj all .for
mer Notre Dame players. ..................... _ .
The coming of spring is well real
ized when it is discovered that the 
essence of baseball is in the 'act of 
outcroping from the Intra-Mural 
veins of the campus. The national 
pastime has been doctored up and 
down so that now the teams will bat 
against a soft ball that gives every 
promise of a fast and furious game. 
The Intra-Mural Softball League, 
that was formed last week, has taken 
rapid strides toward putting this
activity in working order. Eighteen 
tcanis have entered the competition 
which begins this afternoon at 5:30.
The lot behind the girls dorms 
will be the scene of the action, two 
games being played at the same time. 
The seasons opener will include
Alpha Sigma Phi vs. Rencgradcs,
and Delta Tau Delta vs. Henderson 
Hall.______________________,^WJWVW..n
May 4W. and J. here.
May 9Geneva here.
May 11Pitt there.
May 14Buckncll there.
May 15Temple there.
May 16Georgetown there.
May 18Pitt lic're.
May 20W. and J. there.
May 22Bethany here.
Thirteen of the entries represent 
fraternities, three1 are dorms, and the 
remaining two are independent* class 
teams. Seven inning games will be 
played with 14-inch outscam softball 
as regulation. The schedule for this 
week is as follows: Wednesday
Kappa Sigma vs Phi Delta Tau, and 
Phi Kappa vs Pi Kappa Alpha; 
Thursday, Phi Sigma Kappa vs 
Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Tau Delta 
Phi vs. Thcta Xi; Monday,' McGill 
vs Scobell, and Beta Thcata 
Pi vs Welch. All games will begin 
at 5:30 p. m.
BUY YOUR
J. Q. LIETMAN I.30 
A. M. FISHER E.30
Representing
S. C. LEWARS, Inc.
Phone Churchill 8500
Welch Hall Wins 
Intra-Mural Cage 
Title in Playoff
In the final play-off of the Intcrfraternity-Dormitory Basketball 
League schedule, Welch Hall hand
ed Pi Kappa Alpha a 28-22 defeat, 
and thus annexed for themselves 
the title of the 1931 basketball 
champions.
Previous to this 'game the com
petition in all three leagues was 
exceedingly keen and in the Fed
eral League an extra game was 
necessary to ascertain the cham
pion. In this, the S. A. E.s 
squeezed a 16-15 victory over the 
Kappa Sigs and thereby emerged 
as the champions of their league.
In the American and National 
Leagues, the Pi K. A.s and Welch 
played their entire schedule with
out a defeat from any team and 
it was not until the final play-off 
that the former was defeated.
Although this marks the end of 
the Intra-Mural Basketball for the 
year, a final game will be played 
Wednesdaj', April 22 at 7:30 in 
the Pitt Stadium in which Welch, 
the Carnegie champs, will attempt 
to extend their record by defeat, ug 
the Kappa Nus, the Pitt champs, 
and thereby claim the title of both 
schools.
Cj /aaBKy <<0
nil
%gpr
STUDENTS
ACCOUNTS WELCOME
at
Forbes National Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND PITTSBURGH
OFFICERS
RICHARD K. MELLON_______________............................... ....................................President
THOS. II. McCANDLESS.. ------------....Vico President and Cashier
HARRY S. BROWN. ---------------------------------------_-------------- Assistant Cashier
MISS N. C. FITZPATRICK.-----------------------:----------------------------------Assistant Cashier
J. NEVIN GARBER........................................................................................AjsUtant Cashier
PAUL C. EDMUNDSON....................................j__________________________Trust OfTlcer
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
THOMAS S. BAKER HERBERT A. MAYPresident Carneclo Institute of Vice President Union Drawn SteelTechnolojry Company
JAMES M. BOVARD THOMAS H. McCANDLESS
Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys Vice President and Cashier
JOHN G. noWMAN 
Chnnecllor Unlv.-.il, of Plt(.br,h Mdfon N.Vloi B.nk
JOHN F. CASEY WILLIAM S. MOORHEADPresident John F. Casey Co. Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys
ELMER E. COLt HENRY A. PHILLIPSPresident Nntional Union Fir Hnl Estate
Insuranco Company ALAN M. SCAIFE
A. REX FLINN Vice President Wm. B. Scaife
President Booth & Flinn Company & Sons Company
____ , EDWARD R. WEIDLEINHOWARD M. JOHNSON Research
Auditor Ligonier Valley Railroad Director Mellon Institute of Industrial
TRACK
Western Reservevs.Carnegie
BOWL - S ATURDAY
2 P. M.
Schenley High 
 vs.
Plebes
VICTOR S. ROSE
Tennis Racket Expert
Formerly With 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association
Rackets Restrung and 
Repaired
Bancroft Tennis Rackets 
302 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Plebes Defeat Peabody 
High Trackmen, 66=27
The Plcbe track team got off on 
the right foot last Thursday and 
won easily from Peabody High 
School; 66  to 27. Peabody, was 
strongly represented in the sprints 
but Carnegie was too well fortified 
in the distance runs and weights to 
be pressed very hard. Biggin was 
high scprcr for the meet, with 13 
points. He won the broad jump but 
had to be contented with sharing 
first place in the high jump with 
Haley, . and first in the 120 low 
hurdles with Edelblut. Haley, with Sj 
points, was second in individual 
scoring. In addition to his High jump
ing, he placed second in the broad 
jump and third in the century dash. 
Peabody took first and second in 
both the 100 and 220 with Moore 
easily leading the field. Hughes 
looked good in winning the 440 for 
the high school boys, although he 
was hard pressed by Carr of Tech. 
The mile was all Carnegie, Shell 
and Allen putting on a real show, 
with the former winning out by a 
strong sprint finish. The Plcbcs 
swept the broad jump, pole vault and' 
javelin and can be counted on to 
score heavily in these events in 
future meets. The broad jump ended 
(Continued on Page Three)
WOMENS ATHLETICS
RIFLE
The Womens Rifle Team has 
completed a successful season as a 
whole. The team has Avon four
teen matches, lost twelve matches, 
and tied one. The standing of the 
girls is as follows in order of their 
rank: Floy Sample, Elizabeth Lillcy, Virginia Artz, Catherine Mong, 
Leah Vocgtlcy, Mary Jane Myers, 
Ruth Mitchell, Doris Mather, Elea
nor Duffy, Ruth Brooks, and Ger
trude Landis.
Floy Sample has been consistent
ly high throughout the seasomaintaining an average score of 
98.83. Next year we all expect 
Floy to place high in the Womens 
Individual Intercollegiate Match, 
which is sponsored annually by the 
National Rifle Association.
Since only one girl is graduating 
this June, we arc sure to have a 
good team next year. With the 
remaining girls of this year and the 
freshman of next year, who wll 
undoubtedly turn out, much will be 
expected of Carnegies only wom
ens team of intcrcollcgiate compe
tition.
SPRING EXHIBIT
OF TAILOR MADE CLOTHES 
BY STETSON D
Featuring Attractive Range in Peacock Blues, 
Nickel Greys, Leat Tans and 
Sage Greens
AT SKIBO INN,
Monday and Tuesday, April 27 and 28
Nationally
Known
Justly
Famous
$29-50, $34-5) $39-5
Also Featuring Special Line 
at $25.00
Just try them..
then leave themif you can
EXH IHBT ONG to find out just 
what the new Humidor Pack 
does for Camel smokers is to 
switch over to this famous 
brand for an entire day. After 
you have tasted the Camel 
blend of choicest Turkish and 
mellowest Domestic tobaccos 
kept in prime fresh condition,
just quit Camels if you can. 
Remember, its dust-dry ciga
rettes that have been robbed 
of their natural moisture by 
evaporation or scorching that 
sting the tongue and burn the 
throat. There are none of these 
discomforts with Camels. Try 
them and see for yourself.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.
Wintton-Salam, N, C.
ALDHPB
Factory-fresh CAMELS 
hrc air-sealed in. the new 
Sanitary Package which 
keeps the dust and germs 
out and keeps the flavor In.
D 1931, R. J. R.juolds Tobies. C.apanjr

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1931.THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS.lbe Carnegie flMaib
NIGHT ARTS TO 
HOLD DANCE 
APRIL 25
- JeW - Idle^iglitmm
Yes, it is here againthe Annual 
Exhibition. This is the time when all 
the shops and all the equipment is 
thrown open to the public for in
spection. Large numbers of visitors 
are always on. hand to view the dif
ferent classes and products which 
Carnegie has to offer. Pittsburgh 
turns' out in a body' for this big 
show and they are not disappointed. 
There is nothing like it in these 
parts. Take the girls over in M.M. 
they sure arc there when they hand 
out those little patties from' the 
Home Economics Department. They 
are kept busy baking those.tarts and 
turn-ovcrs. I hope I will be able to 
get one of them this year as I failed 
last year.
Looks as if the end of the year is 
near. When they, start offering the 
Supplementary Term schedule it is 
time to. take note. Last week the 
:schedule made its first appearance in 
the paper. Some say this schedule is 
the Hunkers paradise. They can 
-make up subjects which they had to 
drop during the year. This may be, 
but there is another side, and that 
is, that it offers a great opportunity 
lo those students who arc working 
to complete courses to reduce the 
length of time necessary . to finish, 
 and by attending the supplementary 
term, they can schedule subjects 
which will help them in this respect. 
I am going to look over the list and 
'see if I can register for a course. 
You know, I have to keep up my 
reputation, even though I dont regisi ter.
. Well if that dont beat all. The 
,-vcry latest, is .that 'one of the cars 
.belonging to a night student was 
/ jacked up and the wheels taken off 
' by"-some * of .those- slight of hand 
' merchants which have been tamper
ing with night students cars which 
v arc parked along the drives. Surely 
:loes seem funny that nobody catches 
these pilferers. It would be a good 
dea to install some sort of an 
ilarm that would indicate the 
' proximity of the thief. Hope this 
idea goes over with some of those 
.nvcntors and that they will get 
\omething started on the campus be
fore next fall.
Talking about cars and parking, 
now that the open weather is here, 
it would be another good idea if we 
could have yellow lines painted along 
the drives indicating the spacc each 
, car could occupy. We could get more 
cars parked nearer the different build
ings and it would save a great deal 
of. time walking back and forth to 
the cars. These arc two good ideas 
and should surely get some action. I 
dont care where the action comes 
from, but let us have action.
STEEL PROCESSES
Courses Offered in the Supplementary Term 1931
May 4 to July 3, Inclusive, Unless Othrwis Indicated
Registration for the Supplementary Term will be held during the 
week of April 27 to May 1 between 7:00 and 9:00 nd on Monday, 
May 4, between 6:30 and 7:15 in the Registrars Officc. In registering, 
students should present their original registration rcipt card. Students 
who withdraw, the first week will reccivc refund of tuition fee less $2.00; 
no refunds arc made after the first week. Subjects with lss than 
twelve registrants may be withdrawn.
COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIES
I. For students in vocational courses:
For students who arc planning to complete otic of the four-year 
courscs leading to a certificate, the following subjects in mathematics, 
physics and mechanical drawing arc offeted. In each subject the work 
of the first term will be given from May 4 to June 3; the Work of the 
second term, from June 3 to July 3. Students nlky register^ for the 
work of ^ithcr term or for the work of both ternu. Th tuition fee 
for the w'ork of both terms in any subject is $12; f&r the work of one 
term, $6. Each subject is scheduled Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 
7:30-9:30.
Cn-21 Vocational Mathematics (E. H. 69.)
Cn-23 Elementary Algebra (E. H. 70.)
Cn-25 Elementary Trigonometry (E. H. 211.)
Cn-26 Plane Geometry A (E. H. 55.)
Er99 Vocational Physics (E. H. 111.)
In-101 Mechanical Drawing A (Ind. 319.)
In-102 Mechanical DraAving B (Ind. 319.)
In-103 Mechanical Drawing C (Ind. 319.)
II. For students in the gentral studies courier
For each of the following subjects, excpt Cn-28, the calendar dates, 
Schedule hours, and tuition fees arc the same as those of the subjects 
listed above. Cn-28 will continue for a period of thirteen weeks, May 
4 to July 31; the work of the first term will b givn from May 4 to 
June 17; that of the second term, from June 17 to July 31. The tuition 
fc for both terms of Cn-28 is $18; for either terrp alone, $9.
Cn-29 Plane Geometry A, same as Cn-26, listed above.
E-97 Elementary Physics A. (E. PI. 111.)
E-98 Elementary Physics B. (E. H. 100.;
E-97-98 Elementary Physics A-B, 1st term, same as E-97.
E-97-98 Elementary Physics A-B, 2nd term, same as E-98.
Cn-28 Algebra B, May 4 to July 31, (Ind. 209.)
III. For students in industrial education}
C-262 education measurements.
M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, Ind. 236-A ($12.)
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Students1 following a degree program should schedule one of the 
following subjects, in accordance with inforrfiatiOn on pages 92-96 of the1930-31 catalog of night courscs: C-109, C-l 10, C-421, C-422, E-20, or
E-21 (9-unit course.)
The work of the first term of C-109, C-l 10, C-421, C-422, E-20 and
E-21 (9-unit course), will be given from May 4 to Juhe 3; that of the
second term, from June 4 to July 3. The work of the first term of 
C-54 and E-21 (12-unit course), will extend from May 4 to June 17; 
that of the second term, from June 17 to July 31. The fees marked * 
include a $5.00 laboratory deposit or materials fee.
Any student who wishes information or advice concerning his plans 
for the supplementary terin should call at the registrars office.
I. First Year Subjects 
C-51 Algebra, 1st' term, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 51 ($12.)
C-52 Trigonmetry, 2nd term, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 52, 60
($12.)H. 2!-76b Gen. Chemistry, rec., 2nd term, M. F., 7:30-9:45, E.
($9.)
E-176b Gen. Chemistry, Lab., 2nd term, W., 7:30-10:30, E. H. 215, 
214 ($11.)*II. Second Year Subjects
C-53a An. Geom. & Calc. I, 1st term, M. W. F. 7:30-9:30, E. H. 
120 ($12.)
C-53b An. Geom. & Calc. I, 2nd term, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H, 
205 ($12.)
E-41 b Physics I, red;,'2nd term, M. F., 7-30-9:45,. E. H. 209, 212
($9.)
E-41 b Physics I, lab., 2nd term, W., 7:30-10:30, E. H. 102, 107 ($6.) 
C-421 Drwg. & Dcsc. Geom. I, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-10:30, 
nd. 345A ($23.)*
III. Upper Yar Subjects
E-20 Mechanics I, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 50 ($12.) 
E-21 Mechanics II (Old 12-unit cours), both terms, M. W. F.,
7:30-9:30, May 4 to July 31, In. 217 ($18.)
E-21 Mechanics II (New 9-unit course), both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-
9:30, E. H. 58 ($12.)
C-54 Analytic Geom. & Calc. II, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, 
May 4 to July 31, E. H. 207 ($18.)
 C-422 Dnvg. & Desc. Geom. II, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-10:30, 
Ind. 219 ($23.)*
E-505 Elcm. of Acronatical Eng., M. W., 7:30-10:30, M*y 4 to
June 6, M. II. 105 ($8.)
IV. Elective Subjects 
C-109 6r C-l 10 English I, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 
71 ($12.)
C-351 Economics, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, Ind. 255 A ($12.)
V. Special Subject 
E-573 Lubrication, M. W., 7:30-9:30, My 4 to June 4, M. H. 103 ($8.) 
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS 
An-501 Pictorial and Decorative Design, M. W. F., 7:00-10:00, May 
4 to June 6, Arts 302 ($10.)
STEEL ROADS
The increased use of the clectric 
furnace in the production of iron and 
steel is predicted by the Association 
of Iron and Steel Electrical Engi
neers. The comparative ease with 
vhich the composition and tempera
ture of the metal can be controlled 
luring manufacture in the electric 
iurnace is becoming more and more 
:vident to the metallurgist, and the 
gradual swing from the Bessemer, 
Eiemens-Martin and other well-known 
Mid long practiced processes will 
Sccome more and. more pronounced 
is the industrial demands for con
stant composition steels and steels 
>f higher and more consistent purity 
han are quite possible with the old 
ncthods become more and more inistent.
One of the possible uses to which 
he electric furnace might be, and 
ictually is, put, would be cleansing 
Bessemer steel of the sulphur and 
ihosphorus which the Bessemer protcss docs not eliminate. Another very 
iractical use would be the re-melting 
)f valuable steel scrap without changng the composition appreciably. Mcltng in the open hearth or crucible 
leccssitatcs the addition of the 
various components that arc reduced 
In the melting due to the gases and 
carbon present in the atmosphere of 
4hc furnace.
The electric furnace can obviate 
this, and probably will be generally 
adopted for these purposes.
McG.
PUPPET
Puppet will be out. this week. Be 
sure to secure your copy from the 
night salesman. This will be the 
last issue sold by the night staff 
this year.
The use of a steel base for brick 
roads was discussed at a meeting of 
the National Paving Brick Manufac
turers Association on the basis of a 
test made near Springfield, Illinois. 
An 18 foot - highway was laid as an 
experiment in this locality and so 
far, the stamina of the road has 
been encouraging. Ease* of repair, and 
speed of construction arc claimed 
to be two of the most desirable fea
tures of the new type of construc
tion, and as the first test was so 
succcssful, there is a possibility that 
the practice will become generally ac
cepted.
The manufacture of the steel base 
for this purpose would be possible 
with present rolling mill equipment, 
according to the steel men, and there 
is no objectionable feature on the 
basis of high production costs, inas
much as the mills would be able to 
use standard equipment that would 
be in continual use, and not special 
equipment that would depreciate 
through sporadic idleness if the call 
for the road base ceased.
The method of transporting the 
base in la-rge sections bears elose 
resemblance to the ordinary manner 
of putting up roofing plate in rolls. 
This is thought to be the method 
that will be adopted for shipping 
the base, since the rolls can be made 
quite large, enabling long sections 
of the plate to, be put up in con
tinuous pieces, dimishing the number 
of welds neccssary for the fabrica
tion of the bed. This would repre
sent a great saving of time  and 
material, sincc welding has been dis
cussed as the method of fabrication.
McG.
1931 THISTLE
During the next two weeks, the 
night students will be given the op
portunity of subscribing for a 1931 
Thistle. This is the college year book 
and all "college activities are repre
sented. The night section will be 
exceptionally fine, and all night stu
dents who are finishing their courses 
should secure a copy as it will be a 
history of the year spent at Carnegie. 
A letter will be sent to each night 
student who has his picture in the 
annual in order that no student will 
be overlooked.
RADIO SCHOOL
Miss Ida Baker, associate profes
sor of niathfcmatics at Western Re
serve University, one of the ffcw 
women radio school teachers in the 
country, and an efficient teacher, con
ducts three mathematics classes over 
the radio through the medium of 
Station WHK, Cleveland. She is 
credited with 6,200 pupils throughout 
the Cleveland district alone, and on 
Mondays and Thursdays she pro
ceeds to teach this great number 
of-pupils by virtue of the radio, 
without which aid the idea would 
be not only impractical but impossible.
The grade schools of the district 
tunc in on Miss Bakers classes and 
the lesson becomes a currdnt part of 
the curriculum. In fact, even over the 
air, the students arc plagued with 
tests, and ever}' six lessons a test is 
broadcast. These tests are marked, oft 
course by the individual teacher of 
each class that takes the course, and 
the marks made on the radio tests 
arc incorporatid with the other class 
room grades to effect the final grad
ing of the pupils work.
The idea, while not new, is some
what sensational, and it is possible 
that some very interesting applica
tions will follow. For instance, there 
may be large classes developed after 
the fashion of the correspondence 
school to enable poor hard working 
night students to stay at home on 
rainy nights, or better yet, make it 
possible, for them to^attend a lecture 
and still have a date at the same 
time.
Lets write our congressman a 
letter and sec what can be done.
McG.
INDUSTRIAL ARTS 
GROUP TO HOLD 
DINNER APRIL 25
The annual dinner given by the 
students in the Industrial Education 
Section of the College of Industries 
will be held April 25 in the Carnegie 
Inn Dining Room. Dinner will be 
served at 6:30 p. m. and will be fol
lowed by a very interesting meeting. 
Several guest speakers have been in
vited for the occasion.
Reservations for the dinner arc be
ing sent in now and all the students 
registered in this department should 
be sure to mail their request prompt
ly in order to insure a place at the 
dinner.
This is the annual get together 
meeting of all the day and night 
students who arc registered in this 
department and it has always proven 
a happy time when the different stu
dents meet and relate their cxpcri-\cnccs.
The committee in charge of this 
years meeting promises a very en
tertaining one and a record attend
ance is looked forward to.
FINAL ARTS DANCE TO 
BE HELD APRIL 25 
IN UNION
The final arrangements for the last 
dance of the year to be sponsored 
by the Night College of Fine Arts 
arc nearing completion. Little re
mains except the finishing touches 
which will be made on Saturday 
afternoon previous to the affair in 
the evening.
Tickets arc now being distributed 
to the night students in Arts. These 
tickcts, together with a registration 
card will admit one couple.
NOTICE TO NIGHT ARTS 
WORKERS
'All the workers in the Night Col
lege of Fine Arts are cxpcctcd to be 
out on Saturday afternoon, April 25, 
to help put the Union in shape, for 
the dance which will be held in the 
evening. Work will start at 2:30 p. m.
Business and Professional Directory
An appreciation of the patronage of the students and graduates 
at Carnegie Tech and an expression of faith in the growth and 
prosperity of this wonderful institution.
Advertising Business
RMNSP ADVERTISING 
SERVICE 
319 Fifth AvenueAtlantic 1290
Aid For Students
"STUDENTS OPPORTUNITY"
You can Cnrn from $50 lo 5100 per 
month In your spare; lime. No experience 
necessary:  position permanent. Opening for sfcveral mnlc and' female workers. t-ali Mr. Rose. Atinnlic 0.111 for appointment.
Artists
GEORGE A. DEES 608 MeCnncc Building Atlantic 662o"Advertising Artist_____________
Automatic Scales
A. J. FISHER 
26 Kearney, Way A1,,n"A,c ? iDealer nnd Distributor of Coin Operated ScalesScales plnccd on Profit Sharing 
BhMs in Drug Stores, Hotels, etc. ror 
information Address P. O. Box 8r.fi.
Automobile Service
SCIENTIFIC BRAKE SERVICE CO. 
Forbes Field at Schenley Park Mayflower 2576 
Specialist* on Brake Adjustment and 
Brake Relinlng______________
Banks
BANK OF AMERICA TRUST CO. '
Chambfcr of Commerce Bldg. (.rant .1110 Banking, Trust and Safe Deposit Departmfcnts1% on Savings BANK OF PITTSBURGH,National Association,226 Fourth .Avenue, _______Plttnhurfch> P>
THE FIFTH-AVENUE BANK OF PITTSBURGH,
1349 and 1351 Fifth Avenue, Grant 1453 
HIGHLAND NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH,
6102 Penn Avenue, Montrose 1202
4% on Savings Accounts1 at the Highland 
THE KEYSTONE NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH,
322 Fourth Avenue.____________Court 5520
Bottling Companies^
GLENWOOD BOTTLING UU.
5426 Second Avenue Hazel 0758Kotula, Mg
NORTH SIDE SODA WATER COMPANY 
1608 Penna. Ave., N. S.. Pittsburgh, Pa.Manufacturer of Soft Drinks _
M. Zuffante. Mgr.________________Cedar 7445
Box Companies
H. H. WOODS PAPER BOX CO. ~ 1322 Sherman Avenue Fairfax 2397
Manufacturers of All . Kinds of
Set-Up Boxes________________
Caterers
JAMES J. RANELLI 
4337 Fifth Avenue__________Mayflower 5624
Chiropractor
- DR. G. A. STAITI410 Chartiers Street Federal 1612-J
Chiropractor and X-Rays
Contractors
BOOTH & FLINN CO.  
1942 Forbes Street Grant 0o03
McCRADY-ROGERS CO. 
Investment Building 
237 Fourth Avenen Grant 4600
Electrical Appliances
H. CARTER COMPANY 131 Fifth Avenue Atlantic 0913
Automatic Serving .Machines, Radios and Electric Refrigerators. Established 60 Years.
Wholesale and Retail__________
Electrical Equipment 
Companies ___
WESTINGHOUSE ELEC. 
1800 Grant Bldg. _____
L- MFG. CO Atlantic 8400
Electric Service Companies
STAR ELECTRIC & CONSTRUCTION CO. Electrical Contractors and Engineers 
W. C. Gloekler 16, President 4917 Second Avenue Hazel 3463
Engineers
R. M. DOUGLASS Civil Engineer 
912 Columbia Bank Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Branch OfficcLogan Trust Bldg.New Kensington, Ia.
Funeral Directors
E. J. McAVOY 
1700 Forbes Street Pittsburgh, Pa.
Grant 1000
PLEBES DEFEAT PEABODY
(Continued from Page Two) 
up Biggin, Haley, Sales, all three 
jumping over 19 feet, which is not 
bad at all for freshmen. The weight 
events were most capably taken care 
of by Forsman, Hiltz, Sales and 
Ford. Forsman is especially versatile 
with a discus and although incapaci
tated to some extent, managed to 
place second in this event and third' 
in the javelin. Hiltz got off some 
nice throws with the javelin, his best 
one going 141 feet.
All in all, the Plebes present a. 
well balanced team.
Hemstitching
PARKER BUTTON AND PLEATING CO. 
212 Oliver AvnuC Atlantic 4733Hemstitching  Pleating  Buttons Covered 
Button HolesEmbroideringBraiding 
ScallopingT ticking
Ice Companies
Iron and Steel Products
McKEE-OLIVER, INC.
1326 West Carson Street________Court 4920
Janitors Supplies
JANITORS SUPPLY COMPANY 
Store & Display Room301 Market Street Offices & Warehouse210 Warfield St., N. S. 
Cedar 7500-7501-7502 
Everything a Janitor Needs
Jewelers
CHAS. WITZEL ?
120-1 Fifth Avenue __________ Grant 3446
Lumber Dealers
INGOMAR LUMBER CO.
Dollar Sav. Ji Trust Bldg. Fairfax 8224 Homes, Garaces, Repairs, Lumber on Easy 
Monthly Payments
Machine Tools
BROWN & ZORTMAN MACHINE CO. 
.127 Blvd. of Aills______________Court 0890
Machinery
TRANTER MFG. CO.105 Water Street Court 0600Pumps  Machinery  Supplies
Medals
DIEGES & CLUST 1209 Chamber of Commerce Bldg. Atlantic, 0397 Athletic Medals, Plaques and Trophies Mr. Smolzcr Manufacturing Specially Jewelers
Meats
THE WILLIAM ZOLLER CO.
1600 Sprlng Garden Avcnue, North Side 
Pittsburgh. Pa. Cedar 6000.
Manufacturcrs of th Famous Rosevale 
Brand Mcat ProduciLook for th Government Inspcctlon Stamp 
No. 353
Mens Shop
STONE &. FRISHMAN 1337 Fifth Avenue Grant 2822
Hals and Shirts 
Uptown's Exclusive Men's Shop
Milk Companies
THE PITTSBURGH MILK COMPANY Pittsburgh's Best Pasteurized Milk 
and Cream Certified Milk  Breakfast Delivery 
1428 High Street Cedar 1733
Mirrors and Plate Glass
WEINMAN MIRROR WORKS 
1406 FedbrnI St., N. S.. Fairfax 8480Non-Shatterable Alilo Glass Installed While 
You Walt
New Mirrors, Plain and Venetian Resllver- ing, Beveling and Plate Glass
Music Houses
Hi A. BECKER MUSIC HOUSE, INC. Pittsburghs Most Complete Music Store Our Motto: Service and Courtesy 
Everything In Music and Instruments 
601 East Ohio (North Side), Pittsburgh, Pa.
Music Companies
WAGNER-BUND-MUSIC CO.
207 Fifth Ave., Hacke Bldg., Allantic 1698 "Tech' Music Store"
Musical Instruments
L. KSCHIER 214 Investment Bldg. Atlantic 5736Violin Making and Repairing 
Old and New ViolinsStudents Outfits
Musicians
MATHILDA FLINN 347 Fifth Avenue Atlantic 6321SopranoTeacher of Voice Manager of Pittsburgh Choir Bureau
Portable Scaffold Builders
PITTSBURGH WINDOW & HOUSE 
CLEANING CO.409 Fourth Avenue Court 4213
Poultry, Butter, Eggs
THE GRAY & WHITE CO.
Tiffin, Ohio Pgh. Representative, Mr. J. Bindley Mercer 
605 American Bank Bldg. ATIantic 4940
Radio Dealers
L. R. MIDDLEMAN CO.
228 Diamond St. Atlantic 8987Sales and Service 
AH Principal Makes of Radios and Parts. Special Prices to Tech Students.
Restaurants
LEWIS RESTAURANT 
2154 Wylie Avcnue_____________Grant 10346
Seeds
THE I. W. SCOTT CO.
500 Liberty Avenue___________Atlantic 2022
Sheet Metal Work
JAMES J. MARTIN 
3911 Forbes Street Mayflowr 4534
Roofing, Spouting and Jobbing a Specialty
Sheet Metal Products
EAST END SHEET METAL COMPANY 
5623 Eva Sireet Montrose 7017
Cornices, Skylightn, Metal Roofing, Ventilators. Roof Repairing
Show Cards
SMITTY SIGN STUDIO Signs and Show Cards 
Any Kind  Any Where  Any Time 
411 Fourth Avenue Court 0132
Singing
GEORGE D. HERWIG 
Teacher of Singing ' 
"American and European Experience Under Best Masters
Studios, 504 Reymer Bldg., 237 Fifth Ave. Atlantic 3414 Res. Mayflower 9568
CARNEGIE EXHIBITION 
TO BE HELD 
FRIDAY EVENING
The annual Carnegie open house or 
exhibition night will be held this 
Friday evening, April 24. Following 
the precedence set last year, exhibi
tion night and freshmens parents 
day arc on the same date.
Exhibition night is the one time 
of the year when the students and 
their friends arc free to make a^ 
tour of inspection of the entire 
campus. A wonderful opportunity is 
offered here to sec just what the 
other fellow docs. Many a dramat 
has never been in the forge shop 
and lots of engineers have no idea 
where the sculpturing school is lo
cated. Margaret Morrison College 
will also be open for inspection and 
the poor over-burdened night stu
dents, who have often wondered what 
the fair co-eds do over there, will 
now have a chance to satisfy their 
curiosity.1
The R. O. T. C. in conjunction 
with the Kilty band have a parade 
on the campus at about 6:45 to open 
the program for the evening. All 
departments in all the schools will 
have exhibits and demonstrations of 
the work done by the students. Stu
dents of both day and night classes 
will be found at work in the various 
shops and studios. Industries, with 
cheir many fascinating shops and 
displays, will be an interesting place 
to visit. Machinery, Hall, with its 
massive engines and demonstrations 
of electric phenomena, artificial light
ning, etc., will' also be an attractive 
spot for the thousands ;of visitors. 
The Art school, well, what needs
be said. This building docs not seem 
to need any press agcnting for it is 
thronged with visitors all the eve
ning. There will be the recital and 
short play in the little theater, ex
hibitions of the work done in the 
various art classes, painting, drawing, 
architectural and crafts exhibits, in
fact the entire school will be in
operation.
Margaret Morrison, with its secre
tarial school and domestic science
and other courscs will have their
share of visitors. Our advice is to
come early and avoid the rush.
There will be an unusually large 
number of vehicles 011 the campus 
that evening so park your car acSurveyors
McCULLY ENGINEERING CO.
Civil . and Mining Engineers WcliHter Hinuitu, Manager 
709 Berger Building_____________Court 4573
Welding Equipment
PITTSBURGH THERMOLINE CC.
45 South 20lh Street Ilcmlock 222H
Efficient Welding and Culling Torches Oxygen  Actylne  Thcrmolinc
THE GYROSCOPE
The many applications of the 
gyroscope in present day scientific, 
and practical instruments is a great 
object lesson for those who regard 
so many things as mere scientific 
toys.
The Gyroscope itself was long 
looked upon as just that, but finally, 
a man with remarkable visionary 
powers took the toy under considera
tion and produced some of the finest 
instruments of navigation that are 
useful in any medium.
The gyroscopic compass has long 
been recognized as the answer to a 
long felt want for a directional in
strument that would not be affected 
by surrounding conditions. With the 
advent of steel hulls for ships, the 
magnetic compass became very in
accurate, if. not useless, and aviation 
had always been handicapped by the 
lack of such an instrument, since 
the ever present mass of steel com
prising the motor rendered the mag
netic compass useless.
_ A comparatively recent adaptation 
of the gyroscope has been the gyro 
stabilizer for ships of all sorts, and 
consists chiefly of a l:\rge gyroscope 
arranged to oppose the roll of the
ship and to regulate to some degree
the pitching and tossing experienced 
chiefly by the small craft. Tests of 
the' device have shown it to be as 
practical as the other uses of the
gyroscope.
All these practical thoughts were
the brain children of Elmer Am
brose Sperry, who is recognized as 
one of the most versatile of modern 
inventors. Besides his work with the 
gyroscope, lie has developed the uni
versally used Sperry searchlight, and 
found out many interesting things 
about dynamos, lighting, clcctrochemistry, storage batteries, mining 
machinery and almost any other sub
ject one coijld name.
McG.
cording to the rules for there will 
also be plenty of the green tickets 
within reach of the minions of the 
law that patrol this section. Well be 
seeing you then.
G.
Curcis Beauty Shop
M. Curci, expert, formerly with 
Joseph Horne Co.
FOR YOUR PROM
Marccling, Finger Waving Mani
cure, Eugene and Thermique, 
the hcatcrlcss method,. 
Waves also given.
214 Neiibit Bldg., 6024 Penn Ave. 
Entrance on Sheridan Ave. 
Telephone, Montrose 3191
BRAZING
Slowly but surely, the arts ot ; 
welding and brazing crept to the in
dustrial forefront until they reached 
a stable status, when they advanced 
by such leaps and bounds that their 
use is more wide spread than that 
of any other basic process. The 
multitude of uses to which welding 
and cutting with the oxy-hydrogen 
and oxy-acetylenc flames arc put are 
so diversified that they arc well ; 
known to almost everyone. Brazing, 
however has not received as much 
of the limelight, although it now 
seems to be coming into its own.
This impetus given to bracing will 
probably be greatly' augmented by 
a recent announcement of one of the 
largest electrical construction compan
ies in the country. The organization 
has, made the statement that they 
hcnccforth intend to braze all their 
electrical connections and similar parts, 
of their constructions which require 
high conductivity of the joint and 
high heat resisting qualities.
Although the new method of mak
ing connections and joints will neces
sitate the use of silver as the bond 
metal instead of lead, the users claim 
that the method will not be as ex
pensive as the old system, when om 
considers the enhanced value of the 
product, the increased strength and 
conductivity of the junction, and the 
labor costs saved by reducing the 
time per operation.
Industry is rapidly- realizing the ap
plication of many of these processes 
that were long used for minor re
pair work alone, and it seems safe 
to predict that welding and brazing 
will some day replace almost en
tirely the familiar bolts, nuts and 
rivets on permanent installations.
McG.
Regulating Your Expenses 
Making your spending 
money go as far as possible 
requires careful and sys
tematic budgeting. A batik 
account will help you regu
late your expenditures nnd 
prove an inducement to sav
ing, thus laying the founda
tion for your future financial 
independence. The Mellon 
National Bank will be glad 
to have an opportunity to 
make your acquaintance and 
advise you on your prob
lem. Your account is wel
come, too, regardless of its
Mellon National Bank
One step in telephone making 
starts in a mulberry bush
The cord on your telephone requires silk as part of its insulating 
cover. For this nnd other uses, Western Electric goes all the way to 
Japan to get the kind of silk that reliable telephone service must have and spends more 
than 82,000,000 annually for this one item ... Its a huge market basket that Western 
Electric carries. In it go pins. In it go locomotives. But in it goes 
nothing bought at random, nothing bought without investigation of world-wide sources 
of supply. When quantities are so greatmany factors must be carefully considered.
.............-
tion, too for minds unshackled by any such considerations as "what we used to do*
Western Electric
Manufacturer s..... Purchasers... distributors
SINCE 1862 FORTHE BELL SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1931.
PHONE WAYFV>WER 2600 
AFTER OFFICE HOURS CALLEdltor-in-Chlcf __---------------~ Schenley 9739Business Mannsrer . Schenley 9211
Muimsinz Editor ...-------------------------Hazel 1990Plaid ........................................Schenley 2389
Published once every -week durlnsr the college ye&r by- undergraduates o CarneKic Instituto oi Technology- Entered In the Pittsburgh Post Office as second-class matter.
THE STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF------
BUSINESS EDITORMANAGING EDITORPLAID EDITOR_______
NEWS EDITOR------------
WOMENS EDITOR
__________John J. Boyle
___David H. E. Gcntcr
_____Nancy C. Newman
-Edward E. McDonald
____________Isabel Levin
__Gracc L. Borgcrding
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Harry Wail Doris Mather
ALUMNI 
Editor__________________Ida Campbell
Assistant __Mary Townsend
JUNIOR EDITORS
V. McBride Gertrude Novak
Mary Hauser 
Nancy Sloan
Edward Steiner 
Harry Kolb
CONTRIBUTOR 
Madeleine Half
BUSINESS
' . -J ( William GoslingJunior Managers- j Pau, WUe
f'R. E. Campbell
Assistants--------:-j J.'Kronenburg
li. Fritz
CIRCULATION STAFF
Manager------------------R. E. Campbell
Assistant ManagerRobert Frank 
STAFF
J. M. Averbach . W. Finglass
C. Chadwick A. Pryce-Jones
J. S. Sharrah
ATHLETICS
Assistants_John Alms 
( H. Hower 
. J. J. Bronson 
( M. Michaelson 
_Kay PalenWomens Editor__
PLAID STAFF 
J. S. Gcyer E. E. McGannon
J. H. Sansonetti A. J. Clough, Jr.
SECRETARIAL STAFF 
F. Sample - - P. Goldberg
E. Lilley D. Yingling
Sylvia Lyon 
REPORTERS
R. Grant 
D. Allison 
J. Halpern 
R. Phillips 
H. Steinberg
G. Anderson 
J. Minottc
H. Maxwell 
J. Ginder
M. Dougherty
B. Preller 
J. Ladd
C. Leighou 
B. Bates 
L. Conlin 
R. Saxton 
J. Ritzel
J. Lowes 
G. Myers
Tartan Platform
More and better equipped club-rooms.
Better seating accommodations for students at athletic 
vents.
More interest in student activities.
Faculty co-operation in regard to,three hour exam'limit.
An increase in the activities fee or a re-apportionment of 
the present fee to aid student publications.
Honoraries
 During the next few weeks the various class honoraries 
will have to assume the necessary,,but" often unpleasant task, 
of selecting new members. The task is a difficult one and it 
is seldom that some- deserving persons1 are not forgotten on 
Call Day. That situation, howeveiyis one that cannot be avoid
ed as human judgment is far from perfect
Class honoraries are a noble thing provided they do not 
lose sight of the ideals upon which th^y Were founded, and 
which should guide them in their work throughout the year. 
Tirese ideals are, in short, the promotion of student activities, 
anc^ a general aid to the school and to the class they represent. The 
honoraries at Carnegie, with the exception of Cwens have been 
to me what dormant for' the'past few years. This is particularly 
true of- Druids and it is almost a question of whether they have 
an excuse for existing unless -they broaden their scope of 
activities and become more interested in school affairs than 
they have in the past.  
Tlie Tartan wishes to urge the new group of men and 
women, who will soon be called to the various honoraries, to 
follow the ideals of their organization, to widen their scope 
of interests and to contribute something really constructive to 
tb<? schopl and'to. student activities. The honoraries usually 
have the, power and the influence % necessary .to institute new 
proceedings and to place them on a firm basis. The Tartan 
hopes they use this power and use it properly.
Spring Carnival
There have been few official announcements from the 
Spring Carnival committee as to the program of events for the 
coming classic; However,. the committee has been functioning 
smoothly, most of the detail work has been completed, and a 
very attractive program for two days-of enjoyment will soon be 
published.
The identity of the 1931 Campus Queen will not be kept 
a secret, as in past .years, but will:, be announced shortly after 
the final election next.Friday. The reason for this change is to 
allow'the Queen and her attendants ample time to practice in 
order to make the ..coronation - ceremony a very imposing 
spectacle. - -
At the preliminary election last Thursday not more than 
300 votes were cast in. all the schools. This is a decidedly low 
number in a college of nearly 2500, and it is hoped that more 
students will find the time and the interest to'cast a ballot 
on Friday. ................
BULLETIN BOARD
DR. T.R. ALEXANDER TO 
ADDRESS CITMAS CLUB
Howdy, Yo All!
The classiest femmes of the Senior 
Class are presented for your ap
proval. From the election last Thurs
day fifteen names have come as 
representing the pick of the girls of 
the 1931 graduating class. From 
among these fifteen the Campus 
Queen and two attendants will be 
chosen on Friday to reign at the 
two-day celebration jocularly called 
Campus Week. The preferential sys
tem of voting will be used Friday, 
that is, each ballot to include first, 
second, and third choice. As is the 
custom in most lections, the winner 
will be the one with the highest num
ber of first places. The fifteen arc 
before you! You cant vote for all 
of them! Pick out three, and may 
your choice be blessed.
The balloting Thursday resulted- in 
several startling situations. Queenie 
Selsam received twenty-three votes 
for nomination. It is believed that he 
received the solid Civil voter Boss 
Weitzcl led the campaign for Selsam 
and seemed to have his cohorts under 
good control. Since "Queenics" name' 
has been erased from the lists, the 
Civil bloc will probably go undis
turbed to some lucky girl. Forbes 
Hall seemed' lo be particularly favor
ed in the nominations, with four out 
of the fifteen names. Arts School 
placed three navies on the list. Mellon 
Hall is the home of three of the 
nominees. Just as a little prediction 
we might say that one from Forbes, 
one from Mellon, and one from 
Pittsburgh ivill b: the three highest 
names after Fridays election.
Along with the announcement of 
the Schenley Hotel as the scene of 
the Senior Ball on May 1, comes ob
jection- from various parts of the 
school. Many seniors want the dance 
at a country club or some more suit
able place for a summer formal 
dance. The committees case seems to 
be as follows:
This, year a really good orchestra 
is going . to be secured, instead of 
the poor aggregations of past Senior 
Balls. In order to afford a good 
orchestra, a large attendance is 
necessary and the usual supper must 
be dispensed with. Since the vicinity 
of Pittsburgh offers no country club 
of sufficient proportions and since 
most country clubs can not be used 
without ordering the accompanying 
supper,..the committee decided to use 
the Schenley. Furthermore, most of 
the country clubs will be in use May 
1. It seems reasonable that a really 
good orchestra, at the price charged, 
is preferable to crowded dancing and 
a supper. We should take it for 
granted that the committee did the 
best possible thing, and make this 
Senior Ball the best attended so far.
With graduation a few weeks off 
and no evident hope of relief as far 
as jobs for graduates is concerned, 
the seniors are beginning to become 
reconciled to their lot. A campaign 
of resignation and even of satis
faction seems to be started. Several 
campaign slogans have been adopted, 
such as Idleness- Forever, "May We 
Rest In Peace," and "Months For 
Fun, But Jobs For None." If con
ditions continue as they arc now, the 
graduates probably wont accept jobs 
even if theyre offered any, which is 
doubtful.
Exhibition Night comes Friday with 
its usual surprises for both students 
and townspeople. Every year you find 
out something about your own 
school that you didnt know before. 
The  Maggie Murphs will type to 
music once more, the Costume Ec s 
will show fashions, the Building Con
structors will make some Sort of 
crection in Masonry Shop, the Elec
tricals will make sparks of surprising 
proportions, and the Industrial Ed s 
will exhibit John Dreshar and 
Howard Dutch Howdy Eyth. 
The townspeople will admire and go 
away saying what a great school 
this is, and how nice it must be to 
go here. Um Humph!
Famous Sayings by Famous Profs.
"Do I speak Greek?
Doc. Mathanson.
CluckI Cluck!Frank Foote.
The last-'meeting of the Citmas 
Club will be . held on Wednesday 
at 5:30 p. m. in the Commons An
nex. Dr. T. R. Alexander of the 
chemistry department will deliver 
an address on The Political and 
Social Life of Germany, in 1929- 
1930. The reports of all commitccs for the year will be made, 
including that'of. the nominating 
committee for officers of next 
year.
Dinner, to which all Masons on 
the campus are invited,. will be 
ser.ved through the provision of 
Brother-' Miller, the usual caterer. 
Tickets, at one dollar each, may be 
purchased from Mr. Davis at the 
Y office or front any member of 
the following committee: Capt. A. 
S. Ackerman, R. W. Borcman, F. 
J. Evans or C. H. Pearch.
HAROLD BRENNAN
TECH SHOE 
REPAIRING
S. Craig, near Forbes St.
For Superior Workmanship 
and Service
(Continued from Page One) 
council this year as treasurer of 
the Industries Senate and assistant 
treasurer of Student Council.
The new Student Council will 
meet with the present council in 
a joint meeting before the close of 
school.
The other members of the new 
Council will be elected at the .gen6nal school election April 28. Each 
college will elect five representa
tives: the Senior Class to be repre
sented  by the President of the 
Senior. Class,, the President of the 
Senate, arid a Senate representative;' 
the Junior Class, by the Treasurer 
of the Senate; and the Sophomore 
Class, ' by the President of the 
Sophomore Class.
The election held April 9 resulted 
in the election of Harold J. Brennan, President of the Arts Senate, 
Edward H. K.eller, President of the 
Engineering Senate, and. James 
Leonard, President of the Indus
tries Senate.
OFFICIALS OF FRENCH 
RAILROADS VISIT HERE
A group of eleven high officials 
of French railroads, now visitors in 
Chicago, were the guests of Dr. 
Thomas S. Baker, president of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
last Saturday, April 18, on the Tech 
campus. The group was taken on an 
inspection tour of the four colleges 
by members of the Tech faculty and 
administrative staff.
Those who visited the Schenley 
Park campus arc Robert Lc Besncrais, 
Paul Chaperon, Aimc Place, Jean 
Girette, Jean Lancrcnon, Jean Levy, 
Hyacinthe Scrvonnet, Frederic Surleau, Louis Cambournac, Henri Paeon 
and Maurice Lcmairc of the Northern 
Railways of France and the French 
State Railways.
Following their visit to the Tech 
campUs, the group lunched at the Duquesne Club. The itinerary included 
visits to the Union Switch and Signal 
Company of Swissvalc, Pa., Westinghouse Airbrake Company at Wilmerding, the Edgar Thompson Works, 
the Warden Mine of the Pittsburgh 
Coal Company and the Pitcairn Yards 
at Pitcairn, Pa.
DR. SCHOENS
(Continued from Page One) 
Last week Kaufmanns made a 
special window display of the new 
edition, while Dr. Scliqen spoke in 
tlieir bookstore Friday .afternoon and 
autographed copies of the book.
Splinters * * *  * *
Jinny Harrison has a new joke 
about.a couple of Austins . . . Earl 
Kline and Bill Dubinkoff spend their 
lunch hours in the P. and D. depart
ment ... The Civils take advantage 
of their class in Margaret Morrison 
to loaf and wise-crack out in front 
.. . . With the sun so strong latelj', 
it probably wont be long until Palen 
is peelin . . . The following notice 
has been posted in Cedar Hall. 
Public demonstration of affection 
not'permitted in living room, recep
tion hall,, or vestibuleOrder of 
Rule Book, Page S, Section I, Arts 
4 and 5 . . . Randolph Foster, D. 
C/ Porter, and we have poined the 
Caterpillar Club, composed of all 
those who have blown the main 
breaker in Electrical Lab . . . The 
Graduation Booklets arc on sale, but 
the fact that you order some doesnt 
help to insure your graduation ...
The old hockey field on Forbes 
street will resound soon with the 
shouts of the Intra-Mural, baseball 
players. . . . Joe Hcrbst has been 
whispering lately as a result of his 
bronchia] trouble . . . The dorm 
boys <*who play ball on Sundays 
ought, to have either shirts on or 
clean underwear . . .
Til Tuesday
11:30 A. M. 
11:30 A. M. 
12:30 P. M, 
6:00 P. M,
!2:30 P. M.- 
4:30 P. M.- 
5:30 P. M.- 
7:30 P. M.-
4:30 P. M. 
7:00 P. M.- 
8:15 P. M,
3:30 P. M, 
3:30 P. M, 
7:00 P. M,
6:30 P. M, 
9:00 P. M.-
4:30 P. M, 
8:15 P. M,
TUESDAY, APRIL 21
-Margaret Morrison Freshmen Assembly.
-Cwen Meeting, Room 102.
-Puppet Meeting, Publications Office.
-Combined Y. W. and Y. M. Dinner Meeting With Dr. 
Ewers.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22
-Y. W. C. A. Cabinet Meeting.
-Tea Dancc in Union.
-Citmas Club Dinner Meeting.
-W. A. A. Roller Skating PartyMotor Square Gardens.
THURSDAY-, APRIL 23 
Y. W.'C. A. Tea For Advisors!'.
-Alpha Tau Initiation.
-Opening Performance of Macbeth.
FRIDAY, APRIL 24 
-Parents Day.
-Students MatineeMacbeth.
-Annual Exhibition.
SATURDAY, APRIL 25 
-Industrial Education Department DinnerCarnegie Inn. 
-Night Arts College DanceUnion.
MONDAY, APRIL 27 
Lecture by Prof. PijoanArts Theater.
-Lecture by Prof. R. H. FowlerUnion.
With Every 50c Purchase 
or Over, We Give Five 
Free Shines
Strand Shoe Repairing 
and
Hat Cleaning Co.
QualityServiceModerate Prices 
Work Called For & Delivered 
1911 MURRAY AVENUE 
SQUIRREL HILL
Where Service Counts
At The
SQUIRREL HILL BARBER SHOP
JOHN DAURIA, Prop. 
5823 FORBES STREET 
SQUIRREL HILL
Typewriters
ALL MAKES AND COLORS 
Special Discount and Rental 
Rates to Students
American Typewriter Co.
415 FOURTH AVENUE 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Court 1019
ALL SCHOOLS
(Continued, from Page One) 
as well as the Library School in 
the Carnegie Institute building.
Laboratories To Be Open 
Machinery Hall, Engineering hall, 
and the College of Industries will 
be running at full speed, with the1 
laboratories/ and shops in use by 
students showing the regular work 
of their department. The wind tun
nel of the Aeronautics laboratory 
and the min? of the Mining .labora
tory will prove of interest to visitors, 
as will the models in the Hydraulics 
research laboratory. Special apparatus 
will be in use in the Physics and 
Light laboratories. The"Masonry shop 
in the College of Industries' will show 
a pavilion built by the students.
A swimming exhibition is planned 
in the pool from eight to nine oclock. 
The Kiltie Band will play in the 
gymnasiuin, which will also serve as 
a rest room for visitors.
The Inn and the Commons will be 
open -for inspection. The Grill will 
serve as usual until midnight.
Informdtion bureUs will be located 
at'the . entrance to each building to 
assist visitors in .finding the various 
departments. Programs have also 
been prepared for the guidance of 
visitors. t 
MRS. N. W. STORER
(Continued from Page One) 
join their meeting for "Peace Edu
cation.
The Womens International League 
is -at present in need of new mem
bers, and a letter to that effect has 
been seiit to present members, urging 
them to invite others to join the 
ranks of the league. All members 
are working for one cause, the 
popularization of world peace.
HAL KEMP
(Continued from Page One) 
to attend. The price of admission 
is $5.00.
The committee, made up of B 
Bryant, Ruth Liebcrman, Dahlon. 
Ritchey, and George Neasc, have 
selected some very attractive pro
grams for the ball.
wouldn't it suggest to you that 
youre really pretty well off, and 
had better not grumble of the mar
vellous things youd do if you only 
had the cash?
OH, FOR THE LIFE OF A 
GIGOLO!! .
Two days ago a friend of mine 
opened his morning mail and read 
something from a New York lawfirm like this:
Dear sir:We regret to inform 
you of the death of your grand 
uncleEzekial Whipplebottom. . . . 
The two hundred thousand dollars 
he left you will be put in trust and 
you will receive approximately two 
hundred dollars a week income 
until you are thirty, when the major 
sum will revert to jrou. . . . Very 
truly yours, Bradford, Holmes and 
McKinscy.
Now what would you do, gentle 
reader, if you were a junior in' col
lege, aged twenty-one, possessed of 
a weekly spending stipend of say 
ten to fifteen dollars, and suddcnly 
had the amount raised to two hun
dred, and not for just the one 
week either, but every week for the 
next nine years? The fortunate 
gentleman asked me, and I, uttcrlj' 
snowed under by the wealth, have 
turned the query over to you, in 
the hope that some bright1 reader 
will be able to present a sensible 
suggestion.
I might as well give some more 
information pertinent to the prob
lem. Now' the boy who has re
ceived this money is a good sort, 
and inclined to be the reverse of 
extravagant. He is willing to spend 
money, but he demands a certain 
amount of value received. How, he 
wants to know, shall lie spend the 
money? To put it more person
ally, if you were suddenly left the 
interest on two. hundred thousand 
dollars', which, is after all not an 
excessive or unbelievable sum, how 
would'you spend it?
Certainly things suggest them
selves immediately.' He is going to 
buy a car, a thing which he has 
always wanted; and he is. going to 
purchase some new clothes, includ
ing a few luxuries that before were 
unattainable. But except, for these 
two matters, he _is in an utter 
quandary as what to do with his 
twenty-fold increased income.
^Hc lives in a fraternity house 
with a number of his friends and 
has no desire to move. A frater
nity experience supplies something 
that no amotint of motley could 
buy .elsewhere. He has no special 
reason to take an apartment. As 
far as entertainment, there is a 
definite limit to the theaters he 
can attend in a weekboth from 
point of view of boredom and mim 
bcr. The financial shoe is looser 
now, and he may see one more 
shows, but even the very best scats 
represent only a minute portion of 
his weekly income.
Food, he cats well enough, and 
more in quantity or richness would 
scarcely be to physiological ad
vantage. He could give wild and 
large parties, but neither his own 
nor his friends self-respects will 
permit it. They arc willing to ac
cept auto rides, but a constant 
donation of theater tickets,, grub
staking on dates, ct cetera just 
isnt done. Gambling offers a solu
tion, but lie cant find stakes high 
enough, and in small games, luck 
being even, the man with the big
gest pile usually-.wins.
W omen, someone suggests. 
Granted that two hundred dollars 
could go quickly enough, he doesn't 
want that kind of girl. He likes 
a couple of co-eds, but its a diffi
cult - dissipation (he docs not be
lieve , in the cxhorbitant prices of 
nightclubs). to spend more than ten 
dollars on a decent girl in an eve
ning. The trouble n<5>v is that lies 
developing some , sort of complex 
where he fears that every female is 
after- his mcmcy instead of himself. 
Nor . docs he-care enough for. any 
of thcin at the present moment to 
consider marriage.
Books, to 'quote the old joke 
lie already . has a book.  Nor will 
his sense - of values permit  him to 
go into first editions and splurge. 
So far as lie is. coriccriicd the fact 
of a volume - being printed two 
thousand copies ahead of the one 
in the store does not enhance its 
value. . Ditto . etchings. His cloth
ing-composes a vicious circle, too, 
Buying better, clothes and. shoes, 
they each last' longer,; arid natural 
prudence - forbids him discarding, 
thcin before they are reasonably 
worn' out.
His family is wpli'^tixcd- finan
cially, and though lie-, may pay back' 
what- they. have, spent .on his educa
tion, ;they do not need it. Charity, 
what he -could give, even the entire 
amount,, is;-so . tiny a mite -com
pared ' to.,\yhat.: is needed, that lie 
docs not -even .consider it. Travel, 
of course; , is ail -outlet,' but at tlie 
present tinic he wants to stay in 
school and  graduate with his, class.
Investing., his- money, playing 
around, starting a little business 
enterprisethe amount is small 
and there is little initiative for.action. 
Besides, lie has oodles more than 
he knows what to dp with, today; 
and when lie is thirty, there-ll be 
two. hundred thousand more in 
cash for him to worry-about. So 
were asking help. How can lie 
spend his money,;at the same time 
conscientiously receiving good
alue? 
If you cant ''give an answer,
Whats YOUR
favorite 
pipe 
tobacco?
OPERATING DAYaNoNIGHT
ENGRAVERS 
HALFTONES COLOR PLATES 
ZINC ETCHINGS 
COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY 
ARTISTS and 
ILLUSTRATORS
POST-SUN Building 
PITTSBURGH
Phon(i:GRan( 1654- or 1655
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
, Forbes & Meyran
C. W. EHNI------Aast. Vice Pres.
F. W. COTTON-----Asst. Vice Pres.
O. C. YOUNG_________Asst. Treas.
ADA.',I ROSCOE__________Asst. Sec.
BOARD OF ADVISERS
C. B. Aylcsworth 
James B. Clark 
John Dimling
Barney Dreyfuss
J. Rogers Flannery
L. H. Gcthoefer 
C. H. Kerr
J. O. Miller
R. J. Miller
John G. Pew
A. B. Sheets
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
First Church of Christ
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH 
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School 11 A. M.Wednesday Evening Testimony Meeting At 8:00 P. M.
MACBETH
(Continued from Page One) 
seems probable from the allusion 
in Macbeths vision. Some I sec 
that twofold balls and treble se.cptors carry, and also when Banquo, the fabled ancestor of the 
Stuarts, is not made to share in 
the murder as was the actual case.
Macbeth is Shakespeares short
est work,' but still one of the 
finest.
The members of the depart
ment who arc playing in 'Macbeth' 
arc Leo Daschbach, as Macbeth;" 
Clancy Cooper, MacDuff; Pauline 
Baucrsmith and Isobcl Ycaly as 
Lady MacDuff;. Burtt McKee as
Banquo; Donn Botihoff and 
George Hildpbrand as Malcolm; 
Donalbain, ^Bernard Crane; George 
Kountz as Ross; Annabcllc 
Kempton and 'Frances Hcckcrt as 
Lady MacDuff; Robert Gill and 
David Russell as Duncan; Clay
ton Thompson as tlie drunken por.ter;first witch, Margery Lewine 
and Phyllis, Jackson; Arriminta 
Gully as the second witch; third 
witch, Ella Haitli arid Henrietta 
Siskin; Elizabeth Drake and Fran
ces Ardan as Gentlewomen; Flcancc,, Edith Tenney; Ruth White 
as - Lady MacDuffs son.
NOVEL TEA DANCE
(Continued from Page One) 
sent to  students from Pitt, Duqucsnc,,.and Pennsylvania College 
for Women.-
Another .reason for the extension 
of time,'according to the committee, 
is; to allow time for students to 
leave for supper and return later if 
they , so desire. They also hope 
that the admission tax will attract 
students who have late classes. 
The dance will be open to people 
who arc not attending the four
Pittsburgh schools.
An orchestra composed of mem
bers of Phi Mu Alpha and the
Music Department will provide the 
music. . .Ted Estabrookc, Pi Kappa 
Alpha, is chairman of the com
mittee in charge of the dance.
Hotel Schenley Coffee 
Shop & Delicatessen
Specializes in Club Breakfasts, 
Table DHote Dinners, 
Plate Luncheons.
MODERATE PRICES
Located in Schenley Apts., 
3957 Forbes St.
ISN'T IT 
TIME 
YOU   
RocoksoB
^Mother and Dad
P
Most PRINCETON 
men smoke
I
F you walk along Prospect Street 
in Princeton youll notice how 
many men load their pipes from 
the familiar blue Edgeworth tin. 
At Senior Singing on the steps of 
Nassau 'Hall this spring the pipes 
will glow with Edgeworth.
A pipe and Edgeworththis is 
the smoking combination that has 
won the college man. Yale, Dart
mouth, Cornell, Illinois, Stanford 
... all agree with Princeton.
College men everywhere respond 
to the appeal of pipespacked with 
cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be 
guided by their choice: Try Edgeworth yourself. Taste its rich nat
ural savor that is enhanced im
measurably by Edgeworth's dis
tinctive eleventh process.
You will find Edgeworth at your 
nearest tobacco shop15 the tin. 
Or, for generous free sample, ad
dress Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 
22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth Is a blend 
ot fine old burleys, 
with its natural savor 
enhanced by Edge
worths distinctive 
eleventh proccss. 
Buy Edgeworth any
where in two forma 
"Ready-Rubbed" 
and "Plug Slice." All 
sizes, lo! pocket 
package to pound 
humidor tin.
Rock sBy Ca
can never give them
this Thrill!
Theres all the difference in the world 
between the cold, gray words you 
write and the warm words they hear. 
There's a thrill in a telephone chat 
with mother and dad! Its next best 
to actually seeing them.
Make a date to call them up on a 
certain day and at a certain hour 
each week.
The cost is smallthe charges can be 
reversed if you wish.
