MeumuBt be at liberty to 
jgay in print whatever they 
have in mind to say, pro
vided it -wrongs no one.
CHARLES A. DANA
Todays Editorials
Join Meu Plebe 
0. mB D*. Butler 
An Urgent Need: 
Education in Government
VOL. 29, NO, 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCT. 9, 1934
Drama Dept. 
Will Be Host 
To Amateur 
PI ayers Sat.
jMembers of Department 
Demonstrate Modern 
Staging Methods
Stage, Costumes 
To Be Displayed
| KegistrationBegins Saturday 
9:30; Delegates to Have 
Round Table Talks
For the first time in ten years 
he Department' of Drama will be 
he boet for o conference of amaenr players, to be held on Satur. lay, under the auspices of the 
^Pittsburgh Drama League. Presi
dent Baker and Professor Kenyon, 
-ihead of the Department of Drama 
and past president of the Drama 
m mHb vIoqq Is invitation to 
viihc League to hold their conferr.^eDce at Carnegie.
I| 1'3glstraUon will begin ot 0:30 
# Saturday morning. After this, Mr. 
| Kenyon will greet the delegates on 
jf behalf aI Carnegie. The chairman 
| for the day will be George M. P. 
Baird, also chairman of the Eleventh Amateur f*layerB Contest, to 
be held In April, 1935. Mr. B. Iden 
Payne, of the Department of 
Drama, will give advice on the art 
of acting.
Demonstration To Be Given 
The department will give a 
demonstration of modra methods 
of staging and lighting a produc
tion. Lloyd Weninger. acenlc di
rector, who has constructed stage 
models for tbree of the plays which 
will be presented this season, will explain devices used for achieving scenic effects, while George Kimberly, technical director,-will exhibit the light effects to be used In the plays. The drama students will conduct - the delegates on . a tour, of inspection., through .the costume rooms, the work rooms, -arid I hack stage.
; the afternoon session, Prof. I E. W. Hlckman; of the Department 1 of Drama, witb student assistants,
h costume will give an Illustrated ilk on costume in the theater.
At the. end of the session the I delegates will separate i;
Lobingler of the Studio Playera of
Install Equipment 
For Wind Tunnel
I WH1 Put Aero Lab. on Par 
With Other Institutions
The wind tunnel in the Aero- lynaroics Labor.atorv. of the. ...De:
I This equipment replaces i
laboratories throughout the
trically operated
Accurate Results Secured There are flve of these balances, two for measuring drag forces, and three for measuring left and ment forces. In addition to balances, there is an incidence mechanism on which one of tli balances Is mounted, for accurately setting the incidence of the model
nearly accurate results in wind- tunnel tests than has been possible heretofore, and permit useful comparisons with the results obtained from other tunnels.Tii construction of this equipment has been done by Mr. W. D. Klindwortb In the shopsof the Experimental Laboratory of Molecular Physics. Tb* installation is being handled by Mr. C. B. Lyman, who holds a fellowship for the present school year in the Department oE Mechanical Engineering.  The entire work is being supervised' by Mr. George B. Thorp of the 5 department.
. SENIOR STAFF MEETS
. There -will be a very important meeting of the Senior Staff, of the Tartan at 12:30. today, at the Tartan, office. Every senior must be
Freshman Elections 
Will Be Held In All
Colleges, October 23
Petitions Signed by Ten 
Plebes Are Needed 
For Nomination
Senior Vacancies 
Not To Be Filled
Election Committee Head 
Must Possess Petitions 
By October 17
Freshman class elections will be 
held in all three schools on Tues
day, October 23 between the hours 
of 11:30 and 1:30. Elections will 
be held in Margaret Morrison for 
the offices of president, secretary, 
treasurer, social chairman, and 
senate representative. Offices open, 
the freshman of the College of 
.Fine Arts are: president, treaser, and secretary.
The College of Engineering will 
elect a president, treasurer, and 
secretary.
In each college the candidate for president receiving the second highest number of votes shall be Jared elected vice-president. The offices of the treasurer of the senior class of the College of Pine Arts and the vice-president of the senior class of, Margaret Morrison* have been left vacant because these officers failed to return to school this fall. Martha I. Demins 35, vice-president, automatically became, president when Ella M. Holan 36 left school. Since both of the offices left vacant are minor it has been decided not- to hold a special election to fill them. All petitions for office must be in the hands of the chairman of elections not later than Wednesday, October 17.Election Rules 
Election rules, as taken from the Plebe Bible, are as follows;
'than-: one ; petition: for each a--ht3. All school and class. elections shall be conducted under the supervision of the Election Committee of Student Council.4. Voting shall be on standard printed ballots so far as possible.
the freshman classes shall be held in the fall within flve weeks after registration, and shall be conoffice which comes under the scope of student* activities, ahd his successor shall be elected within a period of o week after the office is vacated.S. All disputes arising under these provisions shall be referred Ia Is Student Council for settleSecond Grid 
Season Dance 
Is Scheduled
Novelty Features Are 
On Program; Band 
Is Not Selected
following football games during the' current grid* season is the one scheduled for Saturday, October 13, to be held In Thistle Hall from 9 till 12.
Acceptance, by the student body, ot the balloon novelty featured at the last dance has been Influential in helping the sponsors to decide upon the advisability ot continuing the novelty numbers at future
made a regular feature ol futui football dances.
For the aforementioned novelty dance, toy balloons were dlstrlbutwhere it was to be broken, If possiof the novelty fea ture for the football dance following the game with Michigan State at East Lansing, Michigan . ia yet uncertain; but It will be
gan Slate. These cards will 1 trlbuted among the student body has been the practice since the first all school dance on the campus this year.In their efforts to obtain rlor music for these dances, the sponsors have heard each orchestra play-..before making a. final ^boi'cB^rTW~-6^cKeatrff''f6r^nii5 dance this week wJlI.be selected at, a meeting tonight, and will be nounced on the same card that will announce the novelty feature.
Night School 
Registration 
Is Increased
17.5 Percent Increase 
Reported by Bright 
As 1547 Enroll
Cosmopolitan Group 
Plans First Meeting
Mr. Davis' home, 5064 Forbes street, at eight o'clock Friday evening. All students whose
ing year will be discussed and officers will be elected. Ralph Atlas, president of the club last year, is making p'.ans for the gathering.The Cosmopolitan Club is organized primarily to acquaint the students from other lands with the different aspects of life in the United States and to promote friendly relationship between these students and those in this country.
Civics Should Be Taught In 
All Colleges Says Dr. Griffiss
Daily Newspapers Should Be Used To Supplement 
Textbooks in Such Courses as Well as in Eco. 
Study of Fundamentals is Essential
By Jane Livingston
Nobody ever became .educated by reading newspapers. They become informed, but not educated. You can pick up facts and trends, but you must study to have a background. This was the answer of Dr. Bartow Griffiss. head of the Department of Economics, when asked if the daily newspapers could not be used in place of economic textbooks whic h
date.41 S uppose," Dr. Griffiss said, "the newspapers "announce the suggestion
Dr. Bartow Griffiss you don,t >Inow the present system, you wouldn't undrstand the 
changes.
. By-reading . only newspapers you get more or less of a scrapbook knowledge of the subject vou are entirely familiar with the things that come up in the course, but if other. things come up next year, you wont have a background. Daily newspapers should be only a supplement to text
books."
;Do you think. Dr. Griffiss, that there ought to be courses'' in ' pracYes: I think there ought to be
'.'Well, what:of a federal college euch'ea the: army: and navy have?-:.
. little o that at Georgetown Unimuch better in England, though, than they here. One of the biggest lacks have in this country is that r arent? trained for politics.
Civil service rulings arc very rigid. Alot of civil sen positions are political alliances of the party In power. Not that this holds entirely throughout government, but the most flagrant use of It is in the Post Office. Tin Post Master General is, without e> ception, a national political bos for the party in power.
Isnt Englands greater regard for diplomacy and politics support by Ihe socially substantial classes'
No, you must differentiate besecretarles who are the heads and the under secretaries who do of the work.In England, Ifowever, I think
tics, his answers would shame student in this country.Whats wrong wldi the attitude of our students? ^ "We* havs'been'tqo well off. In the last few years notice how terest has Increased. Until now. government has not been brought close enough home to us. Partly, it 1t from a selfish point of.view 
(Continued on, face baalir y
Complete Figures 
To Be Given Later
Registrar Comments That 
High Enrollment Shows 
Student Optimism
Night school registration show
ed a 17.5 .per cent increpe over 
last year, according to figures is
sued from the registrars office last 
Thursday. A total of 1,547 regie*' 
tered at the regular enrollment1 
hours for night school students lastThe Increase is most encourag
ing in times like these, was Mr. A; 
Bright's comment on the Increase: 
The. number enrolling at Car
negie annually in spite of tremendfinancial difficulties shows an 
increasing trend towards higher 
education,'' said the registrar.
The. enrollment' by colleges Is 
College of Engineering 613; College of Industries 548; College of 
Fine Arts 386.
r a comparable period last 
year the enrolment was: College 
of Engineering 494, College of In
dustries 462, College of Fine Arts 
360. The total enrollment was 
1,316. Figures for a comparable 
period in the peak year in Night 
School Registration, 1931-32, 
College of Engineering 663, College 
of Industries 1,011, College of Fine 
446. Total registration for 
firBt tbree days 2,120.The present figures are not plete as enrollment for night school courses will continue until
4Y Broadcasts 
FooibaGame
Play by Play Description
begins at 3:15 P. JV~
In Brown House
Through, a special arrangea
staged at East Lansing, Mlchiganv next Saturday, at 2:15 C. S. T. Tho Intersectional tilt broadcast will begin at 3:15 E. S. T.
The grounds and buildings on the Drown property adjoining Mellon Hall dormitory have been placed at the disposal of the student cabinet of the Y. A pick-up stati
Installed.
In addition to the vocal broad- acquired Grid Graph
the Bnbe an over-the-counter dispensi! establishment where eider ar doughnuts will be passed out i
stand/- The commilt' of arrangements is headed by Clifton P. Boutelie '36 vice-presiCOUNCIL BRIEFS
the following problems of student government:
Approved tht* petition of Cwens dance October 31, in Thlsof the Arts Ball because listed penditutes were considered high, a.nd burned -ike- proposed budget to the Arts Ball committee
Charity Bali to be held October 13.
ell. The new amendment' states that the chairman of the Foreign Policy Association shall have hli
together with the stated amendment.Approved the recommendation of tho Freshman Regulations committee that students who lost items of clothing In the rccent Initiation be reimbursed, provided the plainiiis could furnish the proper proof and information concerning the cost.Accepted the announcement that the . Margaret Morrison Alumnae Pance. scheduled-' for . Oct. 6. bad beep cancelled
Delta Skull Holds 
Tea Dance Thurs.
The second tea dance of
from four to six. Ches Walters orchestra has been engaged for the occasion. The admission price will be twen- ty-five cents.Delta Skull, men's junior class honorary society, sponsoring the dance. Ov
of the year. Frequently the
John Scott Medal Awarded 
Dr. Mehl for Steel Discovery
Fraternities 
Will Conduct 
First Chapel
Plans for CampuB 
Groups to Sponsor 
Chapel Services
Chapel services this year will be 
conducted by various organizations 
on the campus. This change is In 
accordance with the Y. M. C. As 
'program to improve the student In
terest In these services.'.The organizations In charge of chapel services this semester are Interfraternity Council, mtorsoror- Ity Council, and the R. O. T. C.
e program as arranged is the result of the Investigation conduct-members of the Carnegie Y" Cabi- let.,:Th* campus organizations have expressed-an interest in this pro- gfiim. .Each member of the organ- iltittwi will iiof only: b'pwaenrr
The schedule of chapel services
November 20Intersorority Council. December n  Christmas Carol 
January IBR. O. T. C.
Fellowship Awarded 
To Colorado Graduate
Mr. Karl A. -von der Steiner, a 
graduate of the Colorado School of 
Mines, Is now enrolled in Carnegie 
on a two-year fellowship awarded 
him by the Aluminum company America in cooperation with the Metals Research Laboratory. Mr, von der Steiner received his degree of bachelor of science In 1932 and his masters degree in 1934, both from the Department of Metallurgy of the Colorado School of Mines.
Dr. R. F. Mehl, director of th Metals Research Laboratory, will Supervise the work of the nev   ow. Mr. von der Steiner, a Co resident of Cleveland, Ohio, is now engaged fit research-work- en discussion In aluminum alloys, which he hopes will lead to his doctorate. __________________
Gamma Rays Emitted 
By Radium are Used 
For Radiographs
Robert F. Mehl, director of tho
the John Scott Medal and n premium of $1,000.
The uward was made by tho ltadelpliln Board of City Trust,
Bellevue-Stratford Hotel in Philadelphia. The work for which Dr. Mebl was honored was done while he was superintendent of. the Division of Physical Metallurgy at (he Naval Research Laboratory Me oashington, D. C.
Research men at the Naval Research Laboratory had sought a satisfactory method of delecting internal -flaws in Navy material, especially steel castings; X-ray pictures had qpt proved to be very
i limited, and the bulkiness of
apparatus.Radiographs Used 
Dr. Mehl proposed that satisfactory photographs, or radiographs as they are known Ia scientists, could be secured by using gamma rays, which are emitted by radium. Experimental work on this type of radiography was begun in the summer ot 1929 with the assistane
also a member of the research 6taff at Carnegie.
These three scientists developed a technique that made it possible
decomposition of radium and X-ray photographic film.
The tube emitting gamma rays
Intersorority 
Council Meets
Constitution Is Revised, 
Awaiting Acceptance
The Intersororlty Council held 
its first meeting last Monday to 
present the revised constitution be
fore the representatives of the vari
ous sororities for a vote of acceptTho council Is made up of two 
sections: a group of representa
tives front Margaret Morrison Can 
negle College and a group from the 
College of Pine Arte. The presi
dent and one representative from 
each sorority, the advisor of each 
group, and Miss Mary Watson 
Green, Dean of Women, made up 
the combined meeting Inst Mon
day. Each representative was In
structed to discuss the revised con
stitution with her sorority, so that a vote may be taken at the next meeting, which Is to be held at tho end <
Dr. Robert F. Mehl who has been awarded the Scott medal for discoveries relating to etjeo I phoobject to be pictured. All of the conditions necessary to procure a satisfactory exposure were determined In the course of the work.
Cruiser Tested 
Shortly after these experiments
cracked stern pos casting on Its trial run. Drs. Mohl and Barrett with their torch" gamma rays went to the Nai
while It was still In place on the ship.
replaced. This work plainly
has been used since that th Industries and the U. S. Navy. The latter now makes extensive use of It, having purchased a halfMehl directs a research staff of
Arts Students 
Hold Affairs
College Prexies Selected. Because 
. Of Business KnowledgeOutlook
By Irving Gruber
In last month's New Outlook 
William E. Berchlold in an article 
titled "Men of College Dollars re
veals the,change taking place in 
Use selection of college presidents. 
Colleges and universities once re
served their presidencies lor di
vines and pedagogues; today the college president is selected as much for his business acumcn as [or bis ' cultural and scholarly achievements, according to Mi\ Berchtold.Higher education is one of America's largest' businesses in terms aI capita] investment.' More money is invested in American Mgher cducation-than J3-.3J).v_e$ied
1,078 institutions of higher learning is valued at $3,280,054,000. Which represents an increase of 172 per cent in a single decade.
i $1,226,558,000 in productif hinds held hv private colleges and $122,117,000 held by public insti-| tutlons. Campaigns for endowed institutions are now generally placed-in the hands of professional
1108,851,109 for thirty-four colleges during the Golden Decade) and tho firm of Tamblyn and Brown, which obtained $75.000.000 for its college clients during ' the . same period. The professional fund raiser- Is often -kept.in- the background: .but the ' effectiveness -of -his organlzaoved the difference be- as readied and unfilled endowment campaigns.Back or each college and unlvcr- ity stands a man or .roup of men vho are responslble'ror the financial stability of the institution,
problems of-their respective institutions. Included In the list was Dr. Thomas S. Baker, president of Carnegie, who directs the institution which represents the largest single Investment of funds of the late Andrew Carnegie in higher education. Carnegie Jives entirely the Income from Its investment .&.RSB.BO .in endowment funds and Income from tuition. Tuition produced $684,705 in 1933-34
salaries have been kept intact, 
without cuts so far.The depression has struck a more severe blow at publicly supported institutions than those which are privately endowed. Public institu
tes and universities better position with a twenty per average reduction. This inseriously affected than state institutions dependent upon tax . returns
Upperclassmen to Hold 
Two Separate Picnics
The classes of the College of 
Fine Arts, In an attempt to achieve 
closer organization among the vari
ous departments, are holding 
dances and picnics tbls week-end.
With the Sophomore Class Pic
nic having been held last Friday, 
Oct. 6, the Freshman Class Is plan
ning a dance Ia be held ao Friday, 
Oct. 12, in the foyer of the Fine 
Arts Building. The dance, scheduled for 9 o'clock, wlll .be divided Into four periods. At the end of every period, one department will
The Junior Class of the College of Fine Arts has chosen Oct. 12 for the date of their picnls -and dance, It will be held from 6:30 to 11 in the evening HI Silent Brook (a South Parle. Charles Gable, tho chairman, has appointed a committee including George Klttredge,
3 in the 11 in the evening. William W. Hart is chairman of the committee of arrangements' which
gram, during tho aftern
I COMING EVENTS
Wednesday..........8:00  Student Y" . Cabinet MeetingMr. Davis Home.
Shadyslde Church.riiiay5:30Arts Junior Class. Picnic^ ' South Park. 8:00Cosmopolitan Club MeetingMr. Davis' Home, '5064 ' Forbes Street.9:00  Arts Freshman Class DanceArts Foyer,
lng, 'Drama Department.* 3:00Aris Senior CIfles Picnic South Park.3:15Broadcast of th Cmegie- Michigan State Football Game
DanceThistle -Hall.
Interfraternity 
Council Lists 
New Rulings 
For Rushing
William Sauvary Heads 
Rushing Committee 
For Fall Season
Rushing Booklet 
To Be Published
Contracting Period Begins 
Nov. 25; Rushing baMMajt 
gfter Thanksgiving
At Its first meeting, Saturday, 
Interfraternity Council formulated'' 
plans for the school year. Accord* 
Ing to Jullaji F. Munster, president 
of the Interfraternity Council, the 
largest problom In the hands of tbe 
Csuncil, now, Is to administer the 
new ruleB for tho next rushing , 
Benson.
William Snuvary, member of Beta 
Theta.pl social fraternity, has been 
appointed chairman of the rushing 
committee with Henry Dreshar; member ot Phi Knppa social fra* . ternlty, and WJlltnm J. Moore,  member of Kappa Delta Rbo social fraternity, as the other members. This committee will be responsllet. This booklet, tho first of Its kind to be published on the'cam* - pus, will be vital to both the fresh and the fraternity
The now rushing ruleB- provide for a plan whereby all fraternities will be given u list or men eligible' to be rushed. The fraternities. In turn, must pick out men lhbhbl for tholr house and submit a llat- of those chosen , to the Council: - Following this the Council: will niv< range dats, for th- irehmen. anij fraternities-for.. the..:three,day;.contacting period beginning n' Novem.. ber 25 and ending November ^! This period does not allow tbe Iohh'-
ige ternitles, themselves,
After Thanksgiving vacation, one >. day will be given to the fraterni ties tor directly contacting the freshmen. It Is expocted that the new plan will create many prob- lems Cor the Interfraternlty Council. - Heretofore, at the beginning of... each school year, each fraternity had posted a $60 bond part off which was returned at the end b the school year. Now, each fra- .ternlty will pay ten dollars per .semester as dues to provide working funds for the Council. In case of tbe $60 fine being imposed upon a fraternity tor tbe breaking of In-:. terfraternlty rules, it is expected that the fine whll be paid. Nonpayment would result In suspension by both the .Interfraternlty: . Council and the national organization of the respective fraternity:Tbe Interiraternlty TSail v?iiiuS herd on March I with Frederick M.cKelvey, member of Alpha Tim Omega social fraternity as the chairman; Eugene Treasure, mern^ ber of Thetn XI social fraternity, and Roger Burke, member ot PI Kappa Atyhn - aoefol' lraCferirity,*-as ' the other members of the commit-, tee. They will cooperate with the social chairman of the. student.. Council.
Economist Talks ; 
At First Lecture
Dr. Calvert to Forecast 
Financial Developments
His plan is to develop I tlal economic principles necessary-' to the understanding of forecasting, as a process.' in the.lectures lie  will take up forecasting in some - detail, putting the method Into-', practice by weekly forecasts as tile^ series of lectures proceeas. "vsv: Dr.-Calvert is a retired physician ; and an enthusiastic amateur ;econV/ omist. He has delivered many lec--\ tures in eastern cities, and will:" make the trip from New York each^. week to carry on his course of' lec^ tures at Carnegie. He lectured^ here last year-on Commercial:2ind'\; Financial Tendencies since La,st year's series was exceedingly; v- popular, the attendance averaging0: 12G persons each lecture*?- To cver th cost ot printed biil^S letins and mimeographed matrial,/.' which is to be distributed-to hose^-; attending the lectures, a registr?:'..' tlon fee of $5.00 will be charged .tb^-
FRESHMAN REPORTERS ML
All prospective Tartan i
io short

---------------------------------------------------

THE dABNEGIE TARTAN. .TUESDAY, OCTOBER
Class Parties Planned 
By Reunion Chairman 
Of Homecoming Classes
1913-14 M. M. Alumnae 
Will Hold Banquet 
On October 26
Engineering 19 
Will Hold Party
Philadelphia Clan Seek 
Carnegie Men to Fill 
Many Vacancies
Heimioii chairmen of tbe classes 
ol 1914, 1919, 192*4. 1929, and 1934 
are planning class parties, and 
have notified the Alumol office of 
Ihelr intention lo eutertain their 
contemporaries.
Margaret Morrison Alumnae of 
1914. the first iour-year class Lo 
graduate from Margaret Morrison 
are planning a dinner party (o be 
held on October 26 on or n'eai 
campus, and are inviting tbe 
bHrI Morrison of 1913 to allend 
the function. The latter clas: 
t*red at the same time as that of 
1914 but took a three-year to 
Mrs. L. Hutcheson (Marlon Lloyd), 
239 Newum Drive, Bit. Lebanon, 
nnioD chairman for the M. M. cl: 
of 1914 says that tbe cobL of the 
party will be less than $1.00 j 
Individual and asks that reser 
Uods be made before Octobcr 20 Mr. P. J. Nutlall E19, chairman of the reunion committee of h: class, plans a stag parly for re-unitlng meznlfere of Reservar should be address Hastings St.,
Cheerleaders 
Make Plans 
For Pep Rally
Pep Rallies to Precede 
All Home Games 
From Now On
Gle Club Will Sing 
At Church Reception
Th" Carnegie Mens Glee Club 
ill present a program at tbe stu
dent reception of tbe Christ Meth
odist Episcopal Church parlors at 
Liberty, Center and S. Aiken evetbls evening at 7:30. Other 
entertainment will be presented by. 
the University of Pittsburgh Male 
Quartette, and representatives of 
Pennsylvania College for Women.
Glee Club rehearsals are held 
Tuesday afternoons at 4:30 lu 
Room 157 of the College of Pine 
Arts and Wednesday evenings at 
7:00 in the MargaretMorrison As
sembly Hall. Fresbtnen desiring 
iin the club should come to 
these rehearsals for tryouts.
Plans for activities this year in 
cheer leading have been drav'n up 
by the new squad. The squad is 
omposed of Clyde Giscbel, William 
Javis, and Jack Provost.
The outfits of the cheer leaders 
lave been completely changed. 
White sweaters with an iusignia 
[ a red C and a megaphone, and 
hite trousers are the present cosjmes. in order to carry,put the 
coaches tradition of wearing, der
bies for good luck, each man' on 
the squad wears a derby. Tbe new 
megaphones have two ldltles paint
ed on each of them.
There will be a pep rally- beld 
in tbe bowl preceding every bom* 
game. The program will consist 
of cheers, talks by coaches anc! 
players, snake dances, numbers bj 
the ba'nd, and.various surprises.
Student Cooperation Asked 
At the games the cbecr leaden
Betwstudents will he called upon tc operate In making mass stunts cessful. The letter and symbols of both Carnegie and of the oppoB-i Is a
the class of- 1919. Reservations .are to be made to Mr. Gilbert Hed- deans 1*19 at 125 Balph Avenue, Pittsburgh. Classes graduate from all four colleges In 1924 a planning a-group dinner to be held at tbe Pittsburgh Athletic Association on October 26, the maximum assessment being $1.25. Resera- lions should be made with M: Thomas N. Griggs E24, 1105 Cornell Place, Thornburg. Pa.; Mrs..C. G. Boyle (Bertha Ohrmann) A24,. 24 W. Mclntire Ave., N. S., Pitta burgh; Mrs. E. W Channlng (Miriam Bond) 1645 Morrison Drive, Pittsburgh; or Mr. G. L. Comfort I'M, 305 Edward Ave., Pittsburgh.
n joint stag dinner for Friday. Reservations are being received by Mr. E. P. Kno- ble. E'29, . 1245 Wlsconaln Ave., jfittBburgh, - and Mr. John Hobe J29, 608- Oakwood St., Pittsburgh. Tbe 1934 classes are also planning agroup dinner to be served at 6:30 on October 26 at Webster Hall. Members of this class will receive information cards which they are asked to fill out and return to tbe Alumni office promptly.Word that groups representing _AnBmen are coming from Washington. Philadelphia, and New
111 again be used mation movements, and new cheer leader tumbling.
Freshman who art trying out for the squad should report to the gym any school day at 5:00 oclodk.
Dr. W. Jones 
Writes Article
Paper Cites Engineering 
Educational Trends
the September issue of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, Dr. Webster N. Jon<
What Are tbe Trends in I ing Education?"
In this review of the trends the field- of an engineering edu< lion. Dr. Jones cites that engine
To Judge Art Wozks at International Exhibit
25 Grads Enroll 
In Socil Work
TTork, has been received Alumni office.Regular registration for Homi >omlng will be in the Brown House, the first house on Forbes Street above the cut The regular
^______ ntatlon,
f'Love is- Love, produced by B. Iden Payne. For those who are '^unable to attend Fridays entertainment, th fee will be reduced to 25c If *iey register afti " Friday. Registration fee
clan The editors announce that members of the Philadelphia clan have-jobs for Carnegie men. Tsy have calls _fxr electrical and. mechanical . engineers, an electrical sales encinecr, and chemists with a knowledge ol paints and ' varnishes. For more detailed information write to Walter Gray, 6495 Morris Park road, Overbrook. 
Philadelphia.
Relief Workers Get F.E.R.A. 
Scholarships for Study
Twenty-five graduate students 
ive been enrolled in the Social 
Work Department of the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College tbls This enrollment is a
. >ncythrough the West Virginia Relief Administration. The remainder of students have one year scholarships .from the Pennsylvania State Emergency Relief Board. These men and women, formerly employed by the Pennsylvania State Relief, have been granted a year release for study, are not admitted courses in Margaret there are now men enrolled In Lhl< graduate course. ..
To Develop Corps of Workers 
It Is understood that it is the
the proper engineering Held. A pamphlet entitled Engineering, a Career, a Culture has been issued by the Educational Research Committee of the Engineering Foundation. The pamphlet serves as a counsel to the prospective engineering 6tudent, his parents,- and his teachers.Five-Year Plan InauguratedUsing the engineering curriculum at Carnegie as an eiampie, Di Jones continued by stating, It is safe to say that engineering leges require at least 20 per more work from their students than is demanded by liberal a schools. He also showed that some schools the five-year plata has ited to alleviate this strain and to give the. engineering student more opportunity to 6tudy the so-called cultural subjects.In conclusion Dr. Jones said, "The' ultimate goal of engineering colleges is to produce men of superior qualifications, especially initiative, creative instinct, of vision, and capacity forwork; , men who possess physicali to Ienergetically, tenacity of purpos to compel them to stick to the en resourcefulness lo direct them oi of the .beaten path Into unexplored regions, personality to enable th to live amicably in their envii ment and knowledge in their particular fields to render them capable of creative work.______
Faculty to Supervise 
Student Broadcasting
- Tbe Tartan has been asked to call to the attention of tbe students of the Carnegie Institute of Technology the existence of the Faculty Radio Committee which has supervision over the broadcasting activities of the Institute.
programs representative of 
campus activities.Students or groups who wish to rrange programs for broadcasting rom tbe campus are asked to file ipplication
Dr. Mehl Wins 
Scott Award
Discovers New Method 
*To Find Steel Flaws
r______ Willard N. James,r.^<.er of the News Bureau and chalruan of (he Radio Committee. Room 241, Administration Hall. Programs must be approved by thp
chainof the committee.
Jury for International Art 
Exhibition Judges Paintings
Prize Winners to be Announced Following Founders 
Day Exercises at Ccrnegie Music Hall; Ait 
Work Will Be on Exhibit at Museum
A jury of three met recently to award the customary prizes 
for the thirty-second annual International Exhibition of Paint
ings at Carnegie Institute. The International will open on Oct. 
18, continuing through Dec. 9, with the prizes to be announced 
on Oct. 18 following the Founders Day exercises at Carnegie
Music Hall.. < -----The members of the jury have 
explained what their basis has
been in nicking the winner at the t exhibition. Mr. Beal, New York tist admitted that a voter at an exhibition Is apt to cast a ballot for a picture which appeals to' him. Miss Elizabeth Cary, is editor of the New York Times, staled that 'feelliiy, good design/ expression and fairly adequate drawing would be found in a prize winning picture. On tbe other hand Mr. Alfred Darr, director of the museum of Modern Art in New York City, declared that he had no credo and
third prl: prize of $300, offered by the Garden Club of Allegheny
County for the best painting of garden or flowers.The jurors were picked so as t represent varied interests in the field of art. Mr. Beal. Princeton graduate of 1900. exhibited a paint- ' _ the Carnegie International of 1905 and has continued of the most interesting Ai painters.Miss Cary, a student of ten years, followed in the footsteps of her father, Edward Cary, editor of the New York Times, and became the art editor oi the Times in 1908. She has written several books on art H. Barr,
Bureau of Mines 
Builds New Annex
Structure Located at Rear 
Of Engineering Hall
A new 5130.000 annex to the 
United States Bureau of Mines 
Building is nearing completion on 
tbe plot of ground in the rear of Engineering Hall. Tbe building, which is  being constructed with funds loaned by the Public Works
annex will be three stories high. It will be two hundred feet long, sixty-five feet wide, and forty-four feet high, with a frame of steel and reinforced concrte and an ex- terrior of Klttannlng Brick. The foundation is an open caisson pilMilitary Dept.
Offers Awards
R. O. T. C. Assignments 
Decided by Stature;
Outstanding achievement in'the 
Carnegie R.. O. T. C. unit wi 
given recognition this year by the 
Department of Military Science and 
Tactics. In each class, students 
who. attain outstanding records of 
attendance during each semester 
111 be awarded a gold ribbon to 
e worn on their uniforms. 
Subsequent awards for this honr will be represented by the ed
ition of a.star for each additional 
semester to he worn on the rib
bon. This award will be based 
upon attendance at drills and*) 
classes, promptness, attentiveness, 
and upon personal appearance.
The second award is a gold-staT 
to be worn on the coi/ar and will 
be presented to students main
taining an average of A in their military work throughout the seiSU ent of the 41 seniors, 59 juniors, 104 sophomores, and 167 freshmen to companies this'year marks a departure from the lice followed in former years assignments are made according to tbe stature of the cadet, the tallest being assigned to Company A and the shortest to Company F. To facilitate these assignment: the department deemed it neces sary to abolish the Signal Corps establishing in its stead Company
Radium Is Used
Edison, Marconi, DeForest 
Are Former Recipients
(Continued From Page One) ligations of fundamental problems 
In metallurgy.
Fund Established 
The fund under which the 
.medal and award were granted 
tabliehed by John Scolt, a 
chemist of Edinburgh, Scotland, 
ho died in the early part of the 
Ineteenth century. His will slipulated that premiums should be 
awarded to ingenious men and 
women who make useful inven. 
lions.' The medal bears .the 
phrase To tbe most deserving."
Other receipients of tbe coveted 
honor granted annually to deserv
ing scientists, were Dr. Nicol Tes
la, electricul engineer'who developed the polyphase system or generating. transmitting, and utilizing
the sit of the building ' a stone quarry whit n the quarry
and Harvard.
will be built < the contemporary I scale. They will contain the................ " modern equipment available fI perlmental fuel testing and.| bonizatlon work.The building is being erected by I the F. H. McGraw Co. of New
Although 3 undergraduai
social service workers.Students have been'chosen for courses on a basis of qualemployed on state and county i
vice training and this >
jato courses of the Department  Social Work at Carnegie.
of Alumni members i appointed by the Federation Board of Governors to develop ' reby members of the doing commendable
rai large colleges with such a system established.The committee appointed Is: Tom P. Shea E16, chairman; Kather-  Ine Shuman A22; Eleanor Reiser M24; Walter Flanagan E15: John Hobe I29; and Paul V. Shaver E22.
; Whitehead Club Meets 
--First Time on Sunday
; The Whitehead Club of the /Church of the Ascension,  Sunday  evening . discussion club for stu- -dents enrolled at Carnegie, Pitt, -and- Pennsylvania College for  Women. will hold its first meeting Siindav at 7 oclock in the 'church parish bouse A business session ' and discussion will be the program vior the first meeting. Refresh- aments will be served following the meeting. Clifton F. Boutelie 36. v Carnegle, is the president of the .-Whitehead Club..:..:The Episcopal Church of tho .{' Ascension is located at the corner 'of Clyde street aud Ellsworth
RIFLE-CLUB MEETS
at once. ' Classes scheduled that the range may be used for practiceevery afternoon.
awarded the- Sachem scholarship cup for having mail' the greatest Improvement during the last semester.Syracuse Daily
Coceos
...it makes tlie lobucco 
act right in a pipeburn 
lower and smoke cooler
Tech Barber Shop
Craig and Forbes Oakland
LAnOEST SELECTION OP PORTABLE AND STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS
$14.95 to $75.00
F.L'bMNT*AIITTiPEWRlrrEB ^
PORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO.44 LIBERTY AVENUE
A Good Appearance Contributes To Success ...
Keep Well Groomed-----Visit th.
SQUIRREL SILL BARBER SHOP
Your Patronage Highly Appreciated 
JAektor) MW 6823 FORBES STREET
In the manufacture 
of Granger Rough Cut Pipe 
Tobacco the Wellman Process 
is used.
The Wellman Process is dif
ferent from any other process or 
method and we believe it gives 
more enjoyment to pipe smokers. 
,,.it gives the tobacco an ex
tra flavor and aroma
 2/ makes the tobacco act
right m a pipebum 
slower and smoke cooler 
...it makes the tobacco milder
 . it leaves a clean dry ash
M soggy residue or heel 
in the pipe bowl 
pwhhvll d s,v- .atTa Co.
Harvard Unlversit> football equipment 1 Co-Np Press.
the function 
Among the distinguished recipl*
Thomas A. Edison, Mme. Marls Curie, Orville Wright. Dr. Lee Du Forest, Gughielmo Marconi, and Dr. Frank Conrad.
Cathedral
Mansions
DINING ROOM
/r SUNDAY DINNER
A delicious meal, $4 
served well, ho a | 
pleasant place |
BREAKFAST, LUNCH AND 
DINNER EVERY DAY
&tauft0
Students, Artists and Engineers1 Supplies 
School Seal Jewelry and Stationery
When a prospect
ive purchaser attempfed To sign Hie *25.000 
insurance contract with Mr.
I wains old pen, it jailed to write 
The prospect then said,
III ihink it over'and 
changed his mind.
Tbe RARHER VACUMATICj 
(which McM^lwain now carries)^ 
would have saved the deal, 
because its visible ink 
supply would have 
shown whether the 
pen needed refiling 
before he presented 
the contract for his 
clients s
in some ztmnv zee ant Id get
even man zoho smokes a pipe 
UvttyGnmgr
IT SAVES THE DAYforMMY A UMN'Becausc tt Boltis 102% More Sish
Parker
WS> VACVMAThC*
txssvsr- "CS
PARKER PENS SOLD, FITTED, REPAIRED
PROGRAMS FAVORS SMALL GIFTS STATIONERY
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP122 FIFTH AVENUE. Through to Jenkins Arcade Note;Be aure to.refer to advertisement ir you. call*. _

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 19343
'Play Schedule 
Is Announced
Glass Houses Will Be 
First Presentation
Four Plays Listed
B. Iden Pane Will Direct 
Shakespearean Drama
The Department of Drama has 
.'just-made .a definite announcement 
or its schedule of plays for the 
coming year. The first production
Houses." This initial vehicle wilt be given from Nov. 8 to Nov. 15. Special performances will be staged for the Presidents Reception on Nov. 10 and on Nov. 15 for the American Institute of Chemical
Sbakespeare6 immortal Trollus
director of the Shakespeare Memorial Theater in Strulford-on-Avon.
Cradle Song'' Is Next 
The deportment next offers 'Cradle Song" byG. Martinez-Slerra. Six performances of this play will be given for the theater-going public from Jan. 9 to Jan. 16..
In Mafch the Department of Drama will present two plays. The1 flret. a rather heavy.production, depicting the life of Dean'Swift. "Rich Man, Poor Man" by John Rolfe, will be offered March 9 to 15. George Bernard Shaw's -Getting Married'' - will be produced from March 23 to March 29.
vAfter the Ballet to be given two' days only, on April 2 and 3, Mol- nars Liliom will be presented on April 16 and 17, and on the 23rd, 25th and 27th. A performance of this play will also be gl' night of the annual exhibition, April 26:
The last play of the season will be "Nice People, by Rachel There will be six perIn addition to Its nine major productions, the Department of, Drama announces twelve Studio' matinees. These shorter plays will be given at 3:30 oclock In Union, Administration Hall, on 25, Nov. 13 and 27, Dec. 12, Jan. 10
'Students Will Assist 
At Evening Recitals
Invited several advanced stu-; dents of the Department of Music: to ioflslet him in his Saturday eve-1 ning organ recitals, during the1
Earl-Wild 37 began the series Saturday evening, October 6. ' The
Among thosewho have beenlnvit-; ed beside'Earl Wild, are William: Stone -37, Annette Rosenson 36,: Louise Wlngold 36, and Katharine Keppel 36. Others 'will be announced later, together with the selections they will play.
This - practice of Inviting .CarLawton,' curator of the - Depart- inerit of Wuslc, although quite indefinite as yet, promise to be Very successful.
Scene of Stratford-on-Avon. Festival
3
Guild to Plan 
Charity Ball
To Hold Affair Oct. 19 
In Thistle Hall
Carnegie Editer 
Attends Meeting
Collge Press Associations 
Hold Joint Convention
: Shakespearean product)
Drama Director Discusses 
Stratford-on-Avon Theater
Prof. B. Iden Payne Relates History of Festival; 
Favors Simpler Production and Finer Acting;
. May Bring Avon Players to America
The Carnegie Guild will hold its 
innual Charily Ball on October i9 
! in Thistle Hall.
Tie tickets, which will* be $1.25 
i couple, may be obtained from the 
'Y office or from members of the 
I committee: Margaret Barr '35, gen
eral chairman;  Beatrice Archer 
37 chairman of orchestra commit| tee; Drabclle MacDonald '30. chairof Program committee; and 
I Louise' Altny '35. chairman of 
| Ticket committee.
The following will attend the sail as patrons or patroneoses:I President Baker, Dean Mary Wat- Green, Mr. Glendenniug Kee- ble, Dean and Mrs. -A. W. ..Ta.rbell, Dr. and Mrs. Charles W. Waiklns,| and Dr. and, Mrs. Roscoe M. Ihrlg.
The chaperons for the ball will be: Mies Editli Winchester, Mis Dora Elnert, Miss Ruth Lowman, Miss Marguerite F. Abbott, Dr.| and Mrs. L. H. ShafTer, Mr. and Rollin V. Davis, Mr. arid Mrs. Vincent Parisl, Mr. and Mrs. Har-1
lerubers of the T:\rtan staff; William Landsberg '36. cdl- or-ln-chief, aiul J\iUan F. Munster 35, business manager, are repreOel. U-1The, cunvenUon will have delegates from mauy of the leading college newspapers of America, Thoy'snieet annually
to tbetcomblned convention.
The Tarlan is a member of the Associated Collegiate Press, an organization'established in 1933 by the National Scholastic Press Association. The organization serves its members in various ways; among the most valuable of those comprehensive newspapei
UsMne problems.
'Something About a Soldier Isnt 
. Deep, Dark Mystery it Used to Be
Have you, by any chauce, eoor those kliaklgarbed personages strolling, walklug, running, oi marclnug around the campus? W* used to see them In a bfcdy ovorj Thursday, about lunch time and >r small groups now' and then all dining the week. Now
four; left face, right faco, halt, ump, ump, nnd moiv umps; und so on ull day long. Have you guosscd what It Is llmt we are tallying about? No, by goodness no, It Is the Reserve Officers' Toot-Toot- ln$ Club. Soldiers, thats wlint- It is. soldlersIf wo vemenrjev correctly, thero was n popular song published re cently. entitlod Theres Something About a Soldier, and the rest was left to bo discovered in tho vorses and through our imaginations. We have neon trying ever since then to solve this great problem and iind just what this something is, and at last the real solution 1ms been found.To make the answer a title more clear, we will describe it by staging a lUtlo plaj aijy cla:
anyono. The character I? read presumably studying. iLet us he is stiidylug econmics Cor n i
Is studying' and
funds arise are: utnp, two. three, four, siace funds arise through the saving of many individuals, It wlli be well to ask. Dont you' know which Is your right hands?' Other saving occurs which represents a halt, left race, forward at some in-, ture dateumpto secure social distinction through squads right, ump to provide income for rnoiiv bors of one's left foot after death to educate g(in' on slioulder. and to oneself securo. against lvfl-shoulder."
Tho play is ovei something about i
Students Entitled 
To Special Rates
Conccrt Series Will Begin 
Oct. 30 in Mosque
tras, and the Art Society Concert.In order to obtain the special. student rates on the concert, tik-,. ots, it is neccssary to have an Identification card such ns ttfe issued by the Music Department-in Room f the Co.le'se. of Fine -.Afta.itudenl Identification cards will be exchangeable' iU Mellor's CO-1 Wood Street, between .October 1 and October-20. V\ ,r :
The May Beeglo concerta .will be eight in number, and  will be held in the Syria Mosque auditorium. The llrat of tlies.o concerts will be held the night of October
The other concerts of the series are as follows: November ' 9,Sorgo Rachmaninoff; November 29,
Decmber 2S, John Charles 1C. Slnglng-Boya of Vlsnna; February 1, Lily Pons, and February 14, Yehudi- Menuhin.';
By Rosemarie Pierce Shakespeare Is so much alive that he still draw's large audiences, and the significance of this modern theater is that there is a peren nial appetite on the part of the audience for plays which have imagination, and which deal frankly with full emotional appeal said Professor B. Iden Payne visiting director of the Department of-Drama in an interview concerning the Shakespeare Memorial Theater at Strai ford-ou-Avon to which be was recently appointed head.
Tho history of the Stratfordthe genius of the great playrlght, although this early attempt but of brief duration. Later o 1830, a crude wooden theater
placed by a larger one in 1864, the tercentenary of . ShakfeBpearei blrtb. From that year to tho present, the festival has been celebrated regularly, but not- on a Iarg' scale until very recently.'
About 1S79,, the Old Memorial Theater was built, in Pseudo-Tudor style, and although many considered Its elaborate and fussy ornamon- tatlon picturesque, architects soundly condemned It. After 1879, the festival occurred annually, about three or four weeks in dura lion. For thirty-three years, it was iunder the supervision of Sir Frank Benson, whose company of Shakestaken over by Mr. Bridge-Adamb, and after the war audiences so decidedly Increased that the celebraShakespeares birthday, and in add!
gust and September.
In 1926, Are completely destroyed the Old Memorial Theater,'with the exception of the Library and other part now used
DEBATING UNION MEETS
'first ' meeting- of' the Women* bating nln of Cmegle tm Thura- day at 1:00 oclock, in Room.103 ln; Margaret Morrison.
Ing, according to Lillaa MacKinnon, a well-known British educatoi needs only a little practice; With practice, one can learn to stop thinking altogether,1 Lilias Mac- Kinnin said.' We have not heard ofany cases-of insomnia ait Northwestern.-Daily - Northwestern.
a conference Iptions for the uildlng .of them coming from American drama lovers, the
While, subsi erection of a new I Ing gathered.'
andfestival continued in a disused vie house, under very diffi inadequate conditions; yet the audiences steadily^, increased. Since the opening of the nfe' ter in April, 1931, the celebration
1933, with a record attendance ot] mot;e than 152,000 peopleThls new Shakespeare Memorial Theater, designed in modern architectural style by Elizabeth Scott, Is., extremely, well equipped,.. says Mr. Payne. It includes the most modern equipment for lighting acoustics and staging and the stage platforms can be shifted from aide to. side or moved up and
Although many people have objected' to the architectural departground of the surrounding par and River Avon. At one .side of the theater is a - water front approach and terrace, wbere visitors s served tea and refreshments. The theater has a seating capacity of about 1,100, and the au- diences during the annual productheater was filled, often with standing room only, available." People caihe from all parts of Europe and America to see theso plays produced at the birthplace of their author.
When questioned about his li mediate plans for tho (heater, Mr Payne said, It Is not an: nounced yet which plays will be this year. There is a different repertory, each year, largely...........................t thtudylstudents make up an imporCinC^ part of the audience. There is always a play of an Unusual klud, known as the Birthday Play, belts first performance is on Shakespeares birthday."
Concerning the production of the plays, Mr. Payne said, I . shall
enoughthey dou't succeed In giving, that of rhythm between scenes,'
I Arts School Plebes
Hold Dance Oct. 12
The first Freshman Arts Dance of the season will be held in the Exhibition Hall of the College ofFriday, October 12, Bob Dixon and his . furnish the musk;. The affair Is under the generni chairmanship of Robert Zeldman
vhich.Shakespeares greatestachievement, and which can only be attained by continuity of formance.
of the difficulties connect- ith the production of these
Protessliare hired, and, as there is no1 means of keeping them together over the winter, a different com pany must be obtained each year." Mr. payne then said they were seriously considering bringing the company to America next year lo tour tbe Eastern States. An extensive tour, however, would be out of the question, for the players are not finished in Stratford until the middle of September, and they, must be - back in England again for rehearsal by January.
When asked about starring famous actors and actresses in leading Shakespearean roles, Mr. Payne said that the danger there I lay In the tendency of the audl- to focus all Interest < and miss the central unity op the play.
The Shakespeare Memorial The' ;er, of course is open to prot- maklng theatrical companies during the remainder of the 'eai,- when the Shakespearean Festival is- not in progress. The Festival itself however, is endowed, and Is controlled by a Board cf Cover- including such as George |DOUGLAS E. JONES *36-ENGLISH.
Compojiri we il b rd worU EJP0wu 
VChtn I fid plavid uuc GunJ give in*.
a re il PD pbacl- in cncro
YOULL ENJOY this thrilling
response in your flow of energy!
"Evea die greatest writers are supposed give me a real snapback In energy; They f t v
to nd writing a hard task, and if.^ou are so mild that I can smoke all 1 want ijr ^
ever have to do any writing you know without upsetting my nerves. 
just how hard a time the rest of us; who You, too, will like Camel's ^matchless 
don't aspire to genius, have in express* blend of costlier tobaccos.. Mild-but 
ing ourselves, says DouglasE. Jones,36. ^ never flat or "sweetish^nevcr tiresome 
-Majoring in English I put as much en- in taste. You'll feel like smoking more... 
ergy into writing as a man would' use and you need not hesitate, about it! For 
up.in heavy physical labor. When I feel . with Camels you will find that steady: 
played out I smoke a Camel. Camels smoking does not jangle the.nerves.
CAMELCARAVAN with GlMi CrayaCau Loma Orchastra, WalterOKetf,
Annatt* Hanahaw, and othr Headlhiaraovar WABC.Columbfa Network.  BRIDGE EXPERT ShepardBardaysays^Bndga 
Tu66<fay,10 p.m. E.S.T.8 p.m. I Thursday, 9 p.m. E.SJ'.^'Bp.m. C.S.T. calls forcoaccatmiort. I smokca Camel frequentCS-T.-8 p.m. ALS.T.7 p.m*-PS.T | GJO p.m. M.S.T.SJO p.m. P.S.T. ly, and feel refreshed and mentally alert agaml'
CAMELS COSTLIER TOBACCOS

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAHNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1934
Carnegie ^Tartan
PHONE S1ATFLOWER 3
PublUhed wkly c
Ine lliMpir._________JULIAN I
Sport* Editor__________________IEBOME HANSONWomen's Editor_____________MARGABET GRIFFINAulgnncnl Editor________UESBBRT F. SCHWARZUCEA Editor___________DUDLEY D. PENDLEFEATURE EDITORS: Veronica Ktooe, Aono Ladd,
, COPYVEDlTOk: Rath Gustafeon.HEAD EDITOR: Gwen Haddock.
JUNIOR EDITORS: Walter Adamaos. Margaret 1 
James Latta. Louise MoUor. Lloyd Mergantb
an marh Alberta
REPORTERS:
SPORTS STAFF: J 
BUSINESS STAFF:
CIRCULATION STAFF: Albert AJvis Genhs, Assistant ; D. Sbapero, M. Leven, H. MuniloJU 
TYPISTS: Catherine ConU. Florem 
Virginia TO?/. C 
STAFF ARTISTS: C. Sue Flle
Roscnbenr. Henry
Join In, Plebe!
.With the disregard of freshman regulations 
. becoming noticeably more widespread, the 
 time for a clarification of the question seems 
to have arrived. It Is not filling, however, 
that the desirability or wisdom of these regu
lations be debated here. The law has been 
written; the Jaw eliould be obeyed.
' It la easy, of course, to make a sweeping 
statement . It is less easy Ia b specific, to Intlmately appreciate the root causes of tbe dis
respect for Carnegie tradition that Is being 
shown by so many plebes.
The only proper solution to this problem 
demands some understanding of the freshman 
himself and his attitude toward Carnegie. Per
haps at flret lt is well to withhold justly ad
verse criticism, and Bay only that the plebe 
who disregards regulations knows not what
 ' he does. -For surely he 19 more to be pitied
- than punished.
Primarily, the problem of the recalcitrant 
plebe is not one of enforcement, but rather a
  question of adjustment. Consider the freshman
.who enters Carnegie. Visions of his college ca
reer stretch before him, brightly embroidered 
.' with vaulting, ambitious plans for academic and
- extra-curricular pre-eminence. Then, sudden
ly, he Is shaken from bis dreams and called 
upon to make an abrupt transition from tbe 
heights of prep school achievements to' the 
depths of collegiate nothingness. Further, he 
Is put largely upon his own responsibility 
perhaps for the first time In his life.
The metal of the man is scraped bare by 
such a test. A large number will adjust them
selves to the new conditions normally and hap
pily: others will fall. The newcomer to Car- negie who cannot stand the gall will shirk 
and be ashamed IS- serve his campus appren
ticeship honestly and with erect head; the 
... clever fellow who thinks he is- "putting one 
over' will do the same. Neither type has 
' made an adequate adjustment to hia new 
-- vironnrent; both risk earning the contempt of 
'those fellow students who have* traveled the 
same Toad in a manner fully worthy of can
didates for membership In the clan.
 Every freshman, for example, who pases an 
Upperclassman on tbe campus without speaking to him ought to be thoroughly ashamed of' 
Jtl.Imself.. Many of them are, for their sense of 
guilty inadequacy is betrayed by their downcast or carefully averted gaze. How much 
easier, how much pleasanter to speak!
;:; V-So join in, plebe. You have pledged youraelf to a great school; you should be proud 
;to be seen wearing the Carnegie plaid and 
conforming to your schools traditional regula
tions. Especially should you be proud when 
:you realize that- these regulations are in the 
. main only a guide, helping you toward the 
. common courtesies demanded of a gentleman 
and the properly respectful attitude expected 
of one who as yet has his own worth to prove 
In'the college community.
An Urgent Need: 
Education in Government
. The demand for people with training foi 
government Is becoming more apparent dally. 
The brain trust' as we once conceived It no 
longer exisle. There Is no definite group in 
Washington to whom President Roosevelt 
turns to for advice on all problems. A clearer 
conception of the Brain Trust would be to 
consider the term as the policy of the Chief 
Executive to collect tbe opinions of anyone 
and everyone, and In particular, those of dis
interested parties who are well informed as to 
the technical aspects of a particular problem, 
before be decides on a definite altitude.
Now, more than ever before, tbe government 
is making 11 common practice to seek advice 
from people who are most qualified to give it, 
people who are disinterested in the sense that 
there is no profiteering motif concerned that 
might' bias their advice.
Now, more than ever before, tbe government 
s turning for guidance Ia tallb graduate's 
who must some day assume the responslblllles of leadership. And the college man of to
day must realize that need and be prepared to 
supply it.
The day is passing when the butcher, the 
baker, or the candlestick maker could step up 
important positions because they bad 
played their politics wisely. Government has 
been considered a good racket* for too long 
time. Now it must be considered as a good 
career. It's been a much too haphazard group 
that have Laken over the business of govern:a group made up mainly of people who 
had first to establish themselves in a business 
profession and who turned to politics as a 
sideline, largely for profiteering purposes. 
Such a situation quite naturally gave rise to 
of crooked politics that has existed 
and that still does to a large extent today.
There Is only one way to combat that evil 
and that duty falls 6quarc1y upon .the educa
tional Institutions a- this country. Every per'ho goes to college, and to Include those 
don't, every person who goes to High 
I, should, by the time he completes his 
education, have a good understanding of the 
trklngs and its current day 
affairs. It 16 a step In which the American 
College must lead the way. Courses In prac
tical politics, political science, and current 
vents should be available In every Institution 
Y higher education in the country, at least as
equlred, If possible. The
leges and universities of the
Initiative in conducting what will, In eRcct, 
i concentrated drive to produce leaders for 
country. And this same drive will have a 
double purpose and benefit for not only will It 
produce people more capable of governing but 
will also turn a great mass of citizens Into 
Intelligent voters.
Todays governing class Is made up of those 
of the war generation which was so greatly 
disabled and which had so many of its great
est and most potentially eminent spirits wiped 
during the war. Our generation is the 
post-war generation. We have not been dis
abled like the last. We Aave been bit by the 
depression only to be strengthened immeasur
ably by iti But our strength in order to be 
full must be educated, trained! And we must 
be ready to present our full strength when the 
responsibility for assuming leadership falls 
upon us.
The need for education in government Is an 
urgent onean essential one for the future 
welfare of the country. We look to every col* 
lege and university in the nation to supply 
that need.
M. C. E. A.
O. K. Dr. Butler
Dr.; Nicholas Murray Butler depiores tbe manners and personal conduct of the youth of to
day, he stated at the opening exercises of Co
lumbia University last week. "In respect to 
manners and personal conduct, present-day 
-habits as manifested in every sort of public 
place, and personal relationship are time and 
-Agnin quite shocking. One wonders why It Is 
that> youth can come to full adolescent years 
with no apparent appreciation between good 
jn&nnerB and their opposite."
 v::0;. K:. Dr. Butler, we accept your verdict. 
Our manners are terrible. We dont always 
stand when you enter the room; we 6tnoke in 
'the>Btreet: we keep our fought-for places in 
-street car and subway, though the aged and 
>female:stand in the alsle. Ou the other- count, 
>4W.V:3RfL';pIead ^Uty.....0.ur . p^rsonal conduct. 
-:^u%ked>by the standards of your youth, Is 
baking.  Well, we changed the standards. 
We^ftd: to..; Yours dldntffit.
W^hen-yoUTe thinking - about modern youth,
 Butler, and before'you talk about usask 
pm* mtaHtions. When has a eenera: 
tlojl*found Its world more topsy-turvy, its. fus--..^m^.^jnore uncertain, its today more com'j^plex? .. When has youth faced life with more 
mlncerity courage and Intelligence? -
-have, the &*uwers. tell us. We'il. 
'^to them for guidance.  Syracuse Dalln
University of Pennsylvania (MCEA)With the opening of school the rather meek men of required to obey freshman regulations.-
large and brawny Vigilance Committee, administration has allowed the committee the use of a nearby frog pond fordamplng any rebellows frosh sim'ita." 
Some of the regulations are as follows:1. Freshmen must wear black caps bearing the letter which designates tlielr school.2. Freshman women must carry their books in a plain brown shopping bag.3. Freshmen must wear white socks and
 of the upperclassmen at all 1The wearing of fur coats by. freshmen i;
must remain sealed until the
forbidden.6. Freshmen ___
conclusion of all football giimes.7. Freshmen must uce Sir in addressing all upperclassmen.
University of Pennsylvania (MCEA)  As part of the students health service, for which ho pays a yearly $6.00 fee, the Health Service department of the University is offering students X-ray examinations of their lungs Already about 800 students have availed themselves of this opportunity.
Temple University (MCEA)One hundred and eighty-five youthful Fasclstl delivered II Ducea best wishes to Temple University recently. They were half of a delegation of Italian University students sponsored by the Italian government and acting under orders I-am Mssalhoh UlhsslI - An InvltaEldn cd" attend the opening of the Fascist University of Rome next year was extended.
Temple University (MCEA)Dorothy Thomp- on, Channing Pollock, Harry Elmer Barnes aud Henry Seidel Canby win be numbered among the lecturers scheduled at Temple University this. fell. Tbls lecture program is the newest feature- of an elaborate expansion program to give the students an opportunity to je leisure- time for cultural activity.
Temple University (MCEA)The opening ot school found Harry J. Lance, Jr., a student at Temple stranded in the Arctic Ocean. A wireless message from Station WIOXDA, located somewhere in the Arctic waste,
head of-.the German; government  >VU6 he lives/*-- predicted August Thyssen, powerful German -Industrialist, in an Interview granted imer to Dr. jaraea H. Dunham, dean
Temple.TJnR
Writers Row
THE YOUTH MOVEMENT AT MARGARET MORRISON 
At last the Youth of America Is rousing 
itself to assume an active and organized 
Interest In tbe serious problems of life! 
We are witnessing a change from the traditional apathy of American college students in political matters! With such enthusiastic sentences newspaper and magazine writers have recently been proclaiming the development of a new liberal youth movement Statements of this sort must be based on fact, on some real manifestation of this awakening; and among college students we have examples in the recent convention of editors of leading college newspapers, in the national student conferences interested In political and economic questions, in the American delegations .to international youth congresses in France this summer. Reports oi these and other gatherings seem to offer tangible proof of the growing interest of undergraduates In matters important outside of the campus. But here at Carnegie and more particularly HI Margaret Morrison, with which I am best acquainted, the reverberations of any such movement have been faint and almost completely ignored.One wonders whether o movement of this sort could possibly find many adherents among the girls at Margaret Morrison. Certainly it is useless to conceive of any sort of composite attilude of so varied a group toward a non-exJslent organization; one can only characterize individuals whose probable reactions are perhaps typical of those of particular groups. To participate in any movement of this sort, one must tfave devoted some serious thought to the-* problems under consideration. whether they are social, political, or economic. Even in Margaret MorTison there are girls who can think seriously on occasions. There aTe also a few, the so- called typical coeds. whose thoughts are occupied principally with dates and clothes, wbo go to college because their parents have the money to send them, because ottendlng college is a rather fashionable and fairly pleasant way of spending fouT years in association with, other young people. Any serious ideas, involuntarily absorbed, which endure after ex- aminatlons, ere put aside In a sealed compartment of the memory to be brought forth for; display when an opportunity presents itself. Here we can And no real support lor a youth movement; but this, the traditionally frivolous, butterfly sort of student, is not nearly so predominant'a type as It was said to be several years ago. It is vanishing with the rest of the Jazz Age.
What of the others, the majority, those who come Ia school expecting to prepare for HCe? Surely among these there must be some who are earnest, thoughtful, Interested, wbo have definite ideas which they are willing to support and defend. There is first of all the grind. whose principal interest Js in securing the. best possible grades, which will In turn secure tor her the beat possible job. Her' llCe is ruled by duty, that is to say, by convention. She will he eminently satisfiedjwllh life when she is able to provide for her parents, marry comfortably, and raifee a number of -normal children. She would, like to have a little wore money, bitt on . the whole she is content with thtngp os they are; she can see no great possibility .[for change about;her, nor anything for . which to fight or against which to tebel. She will eventually join a missionary so-. ciety to aid in remedying .the ghastly! conditions ot the heathen Chinese. \
Another girl, Intelligent and sensitive, has a definite career which she ig determined to pursue. She Is interested in-art, in music, in literature, and" in people as part of her experience in life, but she does*, not lose sight of her chief desire. She will not allow herself to be deflected from pursuing her goal by any aophomoric organization that is attempting to dabble In politics. She may not succeed in gaining her end. hut she will succeed in living a full, a valiant, an honest life.
The student who has illusions of genius, who leans toward the artisticthe Bohemian, who speaks confidently ot her brilliant future as an artiste is not the; person to help initiate anything more serious than a fad. She may add her support to an organization interested in government and politics if it will aid her In striking some distinctive pose, otherwise she-will assume toward any such organization and its members an attitude of bored sophistication. Not being essentially sincere,- she can just as readily become an ardent de- votee as a scornful opponent of any serious
There are several girls who have no veTy definite plans for the future, who hare, as it were, not yet found themselves. Herel &ne would think, is promising-materialIntelligent young people who are not as yet dominated by any one plan or. ambition,' and who can therefore be led to take an active interest In furthering a youth movement. But one, although she is Interested and aware of conditions about her, is overfond of daydreams, of half-completed thoughts, of undeveloped ideas. She is too timid, too unsure of herself to venture doing anything openly that would stamp her as queer or different from the average, she may have the most radically rebellious ideas, but she will try to conform to the conventional in her actions. She lacks' energy, initiatv*
Hobo
MUST WE GO BACK TO OLDFASHIONED REMEDIES?j Current Opinio^
THE OLD ORDER CHANG-ETH, 
ETC., S7TC. New staffnew nan 
Same old Motif. To slip you t 
inside on campus events end p 
sonalitles. 'Humor where we fi 
Itcandid opinion when we feel apropos. Nul
SCRIMMAGE . . . Maybe it was the ballons that brought the iresh- len out Saturday night, or vice- ersa. Besides balloons, however Bill Clements helped materially contributioo was Ruth Milli----a Birch Hall freshman itwill pay to watch. Jettio Taylc * * :ul soul, got Bill the date aft'-------king one with him to C| Home.
Co-Captain Croft also went hom briuging back to the dance some *ery fine Bentleyvjiie talent. No .radical departures for Lib Lewis, Goody, or Tommy Danawhich means Bee, Heba, and Mary were there. Also in the crush were Roger Burke plus Mary Wettach and the Gishel-Philpott comb!-
Blll Becker andloomed around, ___hope this isnt the start of
inny Richmond
!------- businessman, KappaSig Hays made an in-agaln out again appearance.
THE Winnahs (in case you werent Ihere, it was a prize dance) Burns Speers and Mary Whitney. 
AN OUNCE OF PREVENTION
loo,o partVime JOBS Most important result of pEni
$15time employment is uot per month earned by in<i<uM , 
benefiting but the experience thU3ls
thpn* arieS wl, be o SStheir campuses. 
In comparatively few cases doesstudent enter into the life ,fv ... <-hich he spends four yea 
topograph.studying.* Except WI a [0B 
leal knowledge of the town 
acquaintance with its eau.ri.r;.
n ra,'ira?e ">lleslaanothing of the surround.... V fin regional culture
------------------bung sunk halfwaydown; then he filled the thing with rye. When the last pony trickles out, In the not-so-distant future, Ernie will have the comforting knowledge that there'B still
Un
Dudley D. Pendleton
? nice to have
'34-'35. They buttoned hang- r .Senior Jack Pool, Thursday
> prevent i
FORBES STREET Beta Club drew this years first set-back. After having themselves a nice freshman, complete with dog, car, and basketball reputation three weeks before school began, he upped and went home. ... Well fed and content, be looked a sure thing until Ihe actives began pouring Into tho housd. One look at the Squirrel Hillbillies and the lad hot-footed for Arizona, qab and all. (The doggie didn't want to leave:)
"A PRINTER IS SURE OF A JOB '. In Washington, our reporter tells us, Joe Reidy will probably soon be best mao in a shotgun d
THl ROUND IS ON THE HOUSE . . . Remembering the bike races Just passed. High spot. . . Captain GJolma, preceded somewhat by chest and sweater, cutting dead' such smaller fry as Prexy Becke and Tom Coulter (Tom also raz. once). Overheard ... a dizzy blonde who thought the race might do better if tbey had mechanical rabbit to chase, b NoteWe suggest, better ye beaver.
-----,._s necessary-after Tech.From a wealth of experience House President Libby Cashdollar groaned: Certainly, a rest period!"
Samuel Insull, builder of one of the vastest utility em*iiAy3 in history, has at last been'brought to trial in Chicago 
after lcuding the Department of Justice u merry two years' 
chase extending half way round the world. Mr. Insuli who 
once boasted that lie was personally responsible for one thousand million dollars of. other peo-^ ________pies money, is charged with us ng the mails to defraud investors, mishandling a total of $150,000,000 I and evading the Federal income tax to the extent of $199,000.
Only two years ago the Insull | utilities empire was one of the vastest ever, it embraced power units numbering more than 6,000 in 32 states even extending into Mex- | ico and Canada. In its employ e more than 72,000 men while ... assets were estimated at $4,ObO.OOO.OOO and its investors numbered more than half a million. Mr.Insull himself SAt nn lhr> hnsnlc oI 85 companies, -
, Passing through ColiUTUN rado
Hildebrand wheeled and muttered. "Dont look now, but isnt thaf Pikes Peak behind us?
DEPRESSION NOTE . . . Its be come so hard to make an honesi____ that Blll- Bayere now.startihis joke: What is it that sings? (The answer is still "10,000 chorus girls.).
.a nOtc . . . the Clyde Street boys have lost their unwelcome (?) neighbors. Some people have II *> a dfohonest
-and president of eleve:
Insutl Once Clerked at $5 
nsull was not always a king nor s he born with a silver spoon in Bom 74 years ago in    t - get.. ...W  t. n. m five a week. Later he becam y to an agent of Thomas A. who, impressed with his ccommended him to hi Mr. Edison brought hir lea in 1881 and In a fe\ irecting Edison
Edisonwork, :
,,.w-ident of the Chicago Edison and the director of the Commonwealth Edison from which time his whole history until the crash in 1932 was one of expansion.
Points'of interest in Mr. Tnsulls 
Europetn flight were:- a quiet trip to Paris before the crash, a year _ Greece amid luxurious surroundings but under surveillance;
authorities and jail in Istanbul (Constantinople); and finally extradition to the United States last May as an undesirable alien. For more than eighteen months he bad been avoiding extradition by legalistic means, hiring the bestof lai after his final capOf the, Clle.of.-Lrteral Aft*
girl of this same Igeneral group of those who are uncertain is In some respects a leaderactive, fond of doing things, of being at the head of, a gToup. She is intelligent as well, but she has been raised In a. conservative home and has acquired, conservative Ideas. Her abounding energy, her active mind which could be used, to advantage in some serious enterprise are wasted in a round of meaningless campU9 HtIhvhIhs She is capable of much, but her ideas have always been narrow,, and college has apparently done nothing - to. groado- tfceai:.......................... - .... -
There lies the difficulty. Most young people who come to college, graduate with practically the same ideas with which ' they entered. They have learned a few more facts, but fundamentally what' they have learned amounts to very little. -Mod' ern education strives to avoid ideas,.-per- cts are easier and safer to taught not primarily to....w ..member. There are, of.course, Individual teachers who- take It- - u-pGB-therEselvss to encourage independent thought in their - students; but.such attempts aTe not often made and are generally considered unimportant, unproductive of results, not to be taken seriously. How can students take an active part in a' serious liberal movement if they-are -discouraged froni . Lhinking. for... tbe.m.soiyea, . "Of'couirse, it can'ije maintained thai once a movement is* started It gathers blind' unthinking supporters, but then tt.ia .no. . longer a liberal youth movement. v 
One can be reasonably certain that .: there-is ea immediate danger here at >Mar> garst. Morrison-rwe . remains traditional!^:, apathetic, or ef leaat; undemonstrative.
'BMILT KRAMBR.
WHY I CAME TO CARNEGIE TECH DEPARTMENT . . . i Gambler Collins has fouud a way  to be happy though an engineer. 'hHe just doesnt try to'register anymore, sends home someone else's grade cards, and spends the tuition fees on something useful. Next year he thinks hell get a Masters degree the same way, preferably at M. I. T. The tuition is so much higher there.
BARG-AIN DAY ... As the dulcet tones of one President Roosevelt floated out on the Sunday evening air recentlyMy FriendsScobell Hall, gathered
ents ac the present iini~sfcould 
: certainly have a course in ec
onomics, particularly in the 
changes tlmt have taken place in 
the past few years in the federal 
government. Every student ought to take a course so that he can judge for himself what the particular facts are In this new deal ; legislation.
The sludent should hav& not only _ knowledge of his country as a whole, but also the effect of it on
back in Ame..^ ,unc kiie UJUSt
important fight of my life_notOnly for freedom, but for vindication. Two years ago, when I left this country there were no charges against me t . . I worked with all my energy to save these companies. I made mistakes but they were honest mistakes. They were errors in Judgement but not dishonest manipulations.
, This explanation would be more impressive, the Boston Transcript added, if the last stages of the JnsuU-odyssey ive not .still ffish. in the public.mind.
Insull and sixteen associates are Charged with using th mail to sell securities of the Corporation Securities Company as good and safe investments at a time when they knew the securities were not 1 sound. What they did, U S. Attor- ny Green asserted, was to keep up the market by buying and selling through fictitious accounts while making a drive through the {1- for the savings of small inve
society _
Thanks to the Governments lath- rly interest, 100,000 students have an opportunity to become conscious of the extra-mural world.
Need Practical Work' 
now that nv have the flog& nt tbe whole baudall 0( . sry Americanno, every col- hege and university should insist I that every undergraduate contact 
,rld in a practical capacity before he be-allowed a degree. The posslbte sphere oil public service is so wide and varied that it seems impossible for such a requirement to become tyrannical compulsion^ Certainly it Is a more useful and educational requirement thanfor examplemilitary training. And if there Is any college student without an interest in. either education, social service, or governmentto name only % few possibilitieshe has no right to a degree.
result in__-
perlenced eldei .... mj public service. One has only to glance at the slum settlement la any American town, talk to only one of our 12,000,000 illiterates, attend one polling place during election, to arrive at the conclusion that there is more than enough important work undone to allow less than one million undergrade
^unemployment of ex-engagea in
stenographers, janitors and clerks, or hls_defense, Mr. Insull relies lamly on his "victim of depres- on statement.
Says Fitzmaurlce of the Chicago Tribune, His defenders and critics alike are agreed that some time during his last three successful 
P the keen judgment, which had held hia giant intellect and bition In balance through fifty irs went awry."
Only thus, according to the -I- aclal experts, can his colossal mistakes be explained. Only thus, according to associates, most of whom stiil defend him loyally, can they understand the lapses of .memory and the comas into which he occassionally sank as the bank- -uptcy smash approached.
himself. He should be acquainted with the various principles involved in money aud price levels, and how this legislation will af. iect him as a consumer and a producer. He ought to be in a position to Judge for himself what effect it-will have on him when he spends his income. Such a small thing as a change in prices may make him change his plans from a summer European trip to keeping his nose to the grindstone in some
THE GERMAN BOOMERANGThe Swastika, as in all. phases .  Is social.economic and political life of Germany, has reached down with an iron hand and regimented education. Latest rparIs from Rhineland record the fact that Qoly4.000 males and 700 females were admitted as first-yesr students tu universities and high schools this Ml.
The purposes of this, move arc . /Ideut; to reduce the intellectual proletariat and to increase tie number, of workers. The mechanics of the process are equally as vident. Although 39,57 students graduated from GarmHo preparatory schools this spring, the num- her of students eligible for. higher education was rednced lo Hb prsoI small figure by government regulation. The Education Minis- , try declared that only 15,000 wonlfl be allowed the right of university training.-
The number J6,00Oenough, for th average n:::::new students during post-war years has been 32,000. However, more requirements must be meL In order to become a university student, German youths must meet successfully the demands of the labor service army. Consequently, of th maximum number possible,8.000 mate and 1,000 female students entered into the rigorous labor serice army as the final pre -Hhrparation.
That only half of these, were finalyy admitted was explained by the fact that some gave up their plans of study, others remained to becomo officers in the labor scr- ice army, and others failed to pass entrance examinations .In which adherence to . National-Socialist principles is a prime essential.How long this will go in is prcb' lematical, but that it will fall Is certain. To 'prescribe wlo wi" what and how much is to be learned is a form of political in- ..itlers Tgime is browbeating itself into submission, for ;re can be no artificial selector determine who. will furnish the i intellect of a nation. If any nail alive, it must give
w wsa Hra MoIHlly car.able of fashioning .advance* ment. The attempt to restrict education because of political principles and to deprive people-of.training which will allow them to think about the society in which they are living Is doomed to failure .under any form of government.. It seems that Hitler is iBftWng [of the Swastika a sharpedged-edu-'I calional boomerang, which will ' some day fly. back and dcapitt6 the, National-Socialist p&Tty,. in Gev- I many.Purdue Exponent.
| Dr. Griffiss Claims 
Civics Course Needed
that students lake an interest in government and what it means to them, our' comfortable position has made.ihem-forget it. T.hnnlv time they pay attention is when they think the government cun help them. There is a big dlfTer ence in amount between what the average person now reads and knows about politics from what he did in 1329, only now so much ishappening" that' it will' take us about five years lo catch up with understanding the organization.
. Do you suppose it is possible to hold the interest of students in economics when their onlv interest concerns Itself -with .bread and but-ter^subjecta?^-.:...__ ._
thl :U Ahow J Teel

---------------------------------------------------

 . .'. . U. lLI.U
....-...... . ........ ............-................... THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY; OCTOBER 9. 1934
THE
TUESDAY
L >QUARTERBACK
-
 
BY JERRY HANSONF- ./I
FROM ALL INDICATIONS as far as 1 was concerned, Coach Harpster's pati< rather a thankless job, for the plebe at>ff the favorite rather sound thrashing physical beating whichstring a phyi Varsity prldnly did they give the first technically, but they handed the sages painful besides being Injurious to the
i of a few combinations i
AND IN THE MIAMI TOURNAMENT Tartan supporters witnessed the 'hat successful application of the new formulae. Of striking effectiveness was the unusual appearance of Swede Carlson in the cjuar- _ .back position. Swede handled the job with cool calculation quite filling with the demands of the position, and the team responded with substantial scoriae. Carlson also did some efficient blatkhob An- bination which was new was the use of Lehman at fullback. Lehman did well but had little chance to carry the ball. Chyczewskl and co-captain Croft did some excellent defensive work, being able to break through the Miami line with telling results. Co-captain Libbus Lewis, although not as spectacular as usual, was able to hold his end position so well that the Miami rushes were unable to make an inch around that side. On the whole the teams blocking ability did not show up to. the usual par, at least as much as was expected. At times the spirit of .the team was noticeably low, though way above the level displayed at Is Geneva bHm StaIts -hbsIhob sphrhI is an important factor on the grid, so we hope the boys get pepped up during-the next few clays. According to the entire body of Tartan supporters the team js yet unscored upon this seasonthe referee must have been cockeyed, if you ask us. Bu you can't argue with a- referee, so what the lieck? However, a tough break like that occurring in a bHm such as this week ends in Bast I .anting would be disastrous. 1 really believe Plaid will give a good, account of itself against Michigan State, deTHE ONE-HUNDRED MINUS ONE TO NIX victory of the Duquesne Wight Riders.was a pitiful sight. From'a school of 140 students, the Ashland team rode' the buses for seven hours to be met with what I should term beaskial hospitality. The Bluffites. did look pretty snappy against the visitors, and deserve credit for being a mighty fine,ioth-vcredit fc>rklng machine, especially in the rum ermed a humane bunch when they, deal soid end; bu severely with
of the Tartant the MlamiCarnegl
Ashland ys from Ohio should
i staff Is honest on this countThank g09h we can boast t
WE'VE HEARD RUMORS  couldn't hefp hearing them about the plebe wonder drum major. We saw him at the pep rally, and liked him ilyIn fact, wc claimed him as our ..own. But somebody Is d wont offer him for public view.'- The boy has class which puts a peacock to shame, and he juggles the club like a master. Who- it is that has a hold on him won't keep Ic'much longer, 'cause you t hold that kind of an artist down, especially when his publie criesfor It. Ho'about It?
the small size of the audience. The cheer leaders sported some rather seat mouthpieces and uniforms, of which, in the words of Clyde Gis- che); they are moughty proud." it has been suggested, however, that the leaders try to get a bit more of military snap and precision In their ictivlties. Whatever their short-comJngs, we have to hand it to em they surely did get a loud noise out of the Tartan- section.______.
Opponents Remaining on Schedule 
Give Carnegie Fifty-Fifty Chance
Most of Carnegie's opponents of he next, few - weeks have revealed their bids for football prominence during this past week, and
schedule may be conjectured upon.ToughOur chances against the first
mighty slim in view of the nifty showing the State team made igainst the Big Ten defenders,
ion was not due to flukes, nor \v< t due to any unusual inherent weakness on the part of the Wolver- lted as d theirvictory over the favored Wolverine club, headed by Sebo and Warm- bein, bodes ill for the Skibo ranks, unless the Kiltied players have aiding something- troiii "is 60
The narrow win made by Texas ver the Irish cannot mean much o us, for the Longhorns can al- ways he depended upon to have a powerful unit, Fumbles were the reasons for each teams scoring.
the ball was taken over the goal after It was recovered on the nine from a fumbled Texan punt. The Ramblers missed the' bat- on the conversion; and though they held the upper hand from then until the last few ninutes of- play, they were unable beatany more points out of the >onghorn outfit! The Irish style was a hit shoddy in spots.Rice Upsets Purdue An upset which gives the Tartans somewhat of hope is that
i for the goal play. During s final secoude of th game th
for their money last year. Of terest will be the outcome of Notre Dame-tPurdue game Saturday, October 13.
Tartan line-up againstNev
j
.. Choose your bank 
as you would choose 
a friend
9
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
. PhIIssrblIhPH;
York jinx, so the least that said ia that the University has other powerful team.
Local Clubs Strong Puquesne's heartless, thrashing of the Ashland, Ohio, elevi
begrudged the fact that they hav
expected to be, so the unusual score' of SET to 0 maybe chalked lown to a poorly selected schedule. The Pitt Panthers gave the usual good account of themselves. West Virginia was a scrappy bit of especially during the third quarter
easily and. showed a great deal of
Carnegie Footballers 
Show Improvement In 
Dealing Miami Trump
Terebus Flashes Usual 
Class in Carrying 
Ball Over Top
New Combinations 
Found Successful
Smoother Running Exhibited 
By Tartan Eleven; Still 
Slow on Blocking
The Carnegie gridders won tlietr second encounter of the season, Saturday at the Stadium, against ty, by the
hardtellactually the
Skibos Start Strong Howard Harpsters proteges started out In great shape, and for the duration oi the first quarter It looked as If the game might be Somewhat of a repetition of the Temple game of last year. ' That first period was undoubtedly the Tartans, for they were playing o very good game of ball, and Miami have trouble In getting
boll over for the first touchdown.
When the whistle blew for the end of the quarter,. the Tartans hud the ball on the Miami 20-yard line, and when tho ball was again called into play, they drove it over the last white line for the second tally. However, from then n, the quarter and most ot the
Tartane Smoother The Plaid machine, In spite of a few very bad spots, was functioning with much more smoothness than was evidenced at the Geneva game a week Hba Different combinations of players seemed
able will be discovered.
Kicking and Blocking Shine One of the most amusing features of the game was provided' by Co-Captain Lib Lewis, when on a blocked Miami kick he snatched the ball out of the air, and proceeded to stumble and run, in a practically horizontal position for about ten yards, until he was finally stopped by completely falling fiat.
game from possible Miami
behind the goal, to bring the ball
ball had been brought to the 1-yard line by a fifteen yard penalty. However, his attempt to emulate Red Stewart, in attempting a field goal, was not so successful.
Individuals Show Class . One of the best features of the game was the. successful attempts
advantage, with Doloway shining in
Several of the other players were giving some very good demons! tlon of ball playing. Terebus t consistently good, and as usual he could be depended upon foi suits. Billy Carlson was pla some fine ball, while he was ir gamenot only as quarterback as a blocker on the defense. Lewis was father'at a. disadvantage--IBc somebody stepped
eddy Lehman, the Baby Fullback, showed great promise one of the best-to-be in his initial attempt - at varsity ball. Dutch Croft was playing his usual, consistent game, and George Good- ridge was effective in breaking up nlavs around
Campus Asks for 
Intramural Boxing
we are to believe reports curarouud campus during the 
post few days, there will be H new 
sport listed on the Intramural 
ports calendar this winter. For 
years there has beeu considerable 
talk concerning the formation of 
Uramurol boxing league, and 
uothiug definite has ever been done 
about it. In the near future, howa petition will be presented 
to the Interfraternity council for 
approval of the formation of 
such a league. Dormitories will ho 
included is this league as there much good materialavailable there. The league would function much the same as the various other leagues with the different s competing during the winchampions of the league. There would- also be the individual championships in which.the outstanding individual boxers of each class 3uld compete for final honors. Carnegie Is in need of some sort of training for her varsity boxing d this looks like the answer. Considering that quite a few of last year's plebe team show- great deal of talent In the it seems probable that more practice would Increase the ability well as the size of the Plaid squad. Boxing, to not a.few of the entering freshmen, is an entirely new sport. Men can enter the intramural ring with little experl- (, and learn the fine points of the eport in competition of their
Company o| Pennsylvania
excellent > en to strong Tartan outfit.
Hckey Managers 
Asked to Report
hockey league which is pending at present. Plans call for a six-team league made
and Baldwin Wallace. Managers are needed-immediately, freshman, sophomore, junior and senior. Hockey made good progress last year in the city league. Many veteran players will be at. it again this year and pros-pects for a good club I at. Managei n. Ja. 9973.'cellent. Managers call Fred
Skibos Encounter 
Strong Team Sat.
Tartans Will Tangle With 
Spartans at Lansing
Next week the plaid will try its luck against a very strong team epresentlng Michigan State. Tho
ule.Spartans Nationally Touted From the loohs of things as they now stand, the Carnegie boys will not stand much of a chance, for tho Spartans have, according to those who pretend to be in the know, one of the strongest teams which they have ever had, and perhaps even one of he strongest in tho country. Of course it Is not a hopeless case; rather this condition should merely servo as an added incentive ha try that much harder, and to pul forth everything which has been in
ly beat Michigan University,
Last seaBon, when Michigan State was beaten by Michigan, 13 6, they held the defenders aI the Carnegie
is exceptionally weak, and it is probably the former, without much doubt on anybodys part.Plaid Primed'However the boys on. the Plold IHm realize, that they are up gainst something which Is not to be played around, with, and thoy will be ready to do everything they
'Harpy and Don Lovewell will 1>< on the lookout for any Inconsistencies which can be erased Jn an ef: fort, to perfect a more  smoothly working and powerful machine.
A-Denison University regulation rends: The student may be reinstated only If absence is caused by
Tartan Freshmen 
Will Face Kiski
Swimming S quad 
Meets Six Teams
Next Friday the Carneglo < fresh
man. football team will meet Klskl at Klskl. This gam wiU mark the Initial appearance of the Plaid-first* year men who are under the joint direction of Coaches O'Toole and Dreschar. Last year tho powerful Tartan plebe squad defeated Klskl 7-0, and went on to enjoy a most successful season, in the past, however, Kiski usually has held the upper hand la the encounters bi tween the two schools. Klskl is coached by J. L. Marks, developer
tains throughout the country last year -who hailed from Kiski and Coach Marke. . Next week wlU see mostly signal practice for tho Plaid squad with one or two scrimmages toward the latter port.The Plald'squad are a fair bunch
asset 16 speed which should' hold them in good stead against the heavier Kiski lads. Coach O'Toole Is confident that his charges will make a favorable showing ugnlnst the boys from Saltzburg. and in any event we can look forward to a good hurd-fought game.
Wo m e n9s Athletics
-----byMARGIE GREEN
According to the dally masses of green end blue clad figures all dressed up , in hockey armor, wo judge that the same old.enthusiasm for hockey still prevails. Betty Mackey reports that there was a very nice turnout this season and only hopes that the interest will continue. Practices are arranged to acoommodate everyone: Monday. 4:30; Tuesday, 3 and 4:30;
ever, ore a little howB about you freshmen' taking the earlier time out of consideration for upperclassmen Bchedulon?One of the big advantages of a; hockey practice is that it may substitute for a gym class. Keep this in mind for one of-lhose 8:30 gym
who has a lecture class on.the ten' nls courtB side- of Margaret Morrison will agree with me that the turnout for this sport surpass any we;have had in a long time. Any time at all will do for this practice
Freshmen Report at Trophy 
Boom Next Wednesday
The Carnegie swimming squad will begin practice sessions just one week from tomorrow. Coach Kisedorph Is sending out a call tor all those interested in tho sport whether they have had - previous experience or not. Freshmen interested are requested to report to tho Trophy Room in the gym tomorrow nt 4:30.Six Meets ScheduledThe team hus ehowu consistent Improvement every year, and this year, It la hoped, will surpass the previous seasons as far as the sue- -cess of the tank team Is concerned. So far six meets have been definitely scheduled with two more pending. Cass, Western Reserve, und Manhattan win be met in tho local pool and Pitt will be encountered in the Trees pool. Engagements with Fraukliu and Marshall at Lancaster und with Delaware at Dover are certain, while Johns Hopkins und Wooster meets are still pend* lug. A freshman schedule will also
freshman squads around the city.
school. However, the backstroke event 'will be woll protected by Bill Holiday and Lee Hainmerschmldt both of whom have demonstrated their ability in the past. Captain Vonderttjfincken and Culler, both i, will represent the school
them. The dvera promise especial(jiist so It is daylight), but Miss RuBBell is available for Instructions only on Tuesday, and Thursday afternoons and Clalro Frederick, on Wednesday morning. The new bow, gloves, and several new arrows certainly 9hould be an inceutlvo to those who have not already tried. Dont forgotIt is a matter of a few weeks till tho tournament,'-
ly weU this season with Dave.] 
ton, a. star performer last year, auu 
Jimmy Heatley. a promising sopho* e, to represent Carnegie la this
for a-regular position. In the free-  style .events - .there . are Vondef- Loncken. Holiday. Leavitt end Ntv gln for the sprints and Charles, Holiday, Hammerschmldt and Den* ois'on Jo the distance events. >
OU Wanted Them 9 So Here They Are*Y\
NEW -LOWER F PRICES*

MATINEES 
Balcony 15c 
Orchestra ZOc 
NIGHTS
Balcony
Orchestra 30c
Children 9c Always
SCHOILEY
TIIEATER And ft Grrnt Show to Sturt Oat tho Now LOWER PRICE POLICY 
Joan Clark
ORAWFORD GABLE 
"CHAINED"
LAUREL i
THANK YOU ...
Wont you continue to drop in for some 
of our tasty food, served at the right price? And dont forget our barber  shop, second-hand bookstore, laundry 
nd shoe repairing- agency.
THE NEW SKIBO INN
,Th SSfieS
$1.00 Cover Including Breakfast at Midnight
INFORMAL
Will Ryshanek and his popular Hotel Schenley Orchestra
Vi*-* / i \ imm 
'"-'A
/ , j /
Y:t .. _
The clean Qw|pjaves 
these afe-the mildest leaves
Its toasted
V ftr tirit pnUaiMfrriUtka mgaimd c
- )7^\1
Its the taste that countsthats 
why Luckies use only clean center leaves 
for the clean center, leayea are the_mildest 
leavesthey cost morethey taste better.
________________;

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAICSECIE TAttTAJf. TPZSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1954
THE 
CARNEGIE 
PLAID
. Spfl &7 3RV&S fidami SJTufioi <-.<&wwaSs Jswa atf Alsrn: V rUbw <KEp-fttn*j5 fro ja* ea
The Elections
TIs -SrvI -lOfiSl 5-9 >ft &%!$ o 
ike ohbsI ssp& tsf ysr vJ2 
a& Pias te te CIAI& a 73s 
Aris e Trhs? Tills wfi ?* 
toret a StesasT eresie* I 
<?SSfc* ira IR* iXK'ar* fA* ;
ssIIrIb Ti# efeMa &'l ff3K 
-hIH h^> ^lire Cf year ifotes ^Kisold HhIz& ho *pir. j j ersi ajsatisy sat assis 'Rwrafsg
sffiart te stata. i te Cat sedwoxayf fa Is college ima wbfeb feey sre elected, te&o&sr se repr- zi&ttso on the sigili Scdrai
eeanty election*.li. f as nraeb a qIy -ar rrj- aHvba pofrfbly can to attend Ibi ele^lon a lsr a--htrs v SI U tor the dtlz^n to tat an adire Interest In civil ^OTertiiceai.
fsterftic) io&re inan UhH ar HarI Ia the hHlHTsI I hb vIHqoI body. Tbey must Hloa o wlJIias ha disregard personal opinion and prjqht -ar Is furtherance of Is-h der.ire of the hoqoI todj that elected theca.
Student Cooperation
til paper. It I' none Hie 1&kr that the eutts of the night -htbaah page depends considerably
.semination of Information that the contributor feel would he of In* IrHI Ia the nlfcbt tadent body.Ea*k week since the beginning of the publication of this year's mal, an appeal for contributions bHo bo printed. This sH been qao In an HIIarh to lmpren th reader with the absolute oaI-HhIy aI rbHrqhob the Plaid a# bJs awo pHpr. Hoq oneequently mating
- ha not heen encouraging.One or two of the point to re- 'member when writing a contribution fo/lov/, anti have heen the rea- oao -ar the non-publication a- unv- cm) rtoI contribution. For in* fitancc. It to Impossible to edit a page that will interest thu average student If noLhlng hut article of an wllt/jrlal nature are printed. Thin doe not mean that article of a technical or cultural nature
rf;1l IV-hIh anil
We weJfiOOTft all article that cover new development In hc!< jh-hWH taoramloIh recent ad va fn art- accori>iIhmer<t of pr< and KraiJu;ili:<I nlyht ftuiilenui, fllmllar material. Py edlUn; tides HI thin nature, the utafT IsHI h-It: reader.wJJJ alo rvar teret In the Plaid, and wU that It I really a paper for
Night School Fraternity 
To Hold Harvest Dance
previously Intended. In place nf thin event, they have hh tltuted a harvmst dance. Thlo danco will he held In the Anclcnt Order  a! liibernJ.H)' . Hall, North Homewood Avenue, in Memherp of the fravltcd.
 ThOHO who have attended ... . vIoqb -otIhao a- this group whll
ortngB of the fraternity are urged Ia put In their appearance, for ,'lliey are aawured of a very pleas* AOt avenlng. Decorations will he Jn keeping with the aplrit of the  affair, and the entire atmospherewill make It ImpoRRlble to do CHAR ihan enjoy yciucnelf Immensely.. - The HlqoI wIhaHra oaI mem* > hors of the fraternity, but who arc : InterOKted in activities are remlnd- ud' mat-liioctiiiB tl'.'S  n*eijhers- -of' Nu Slgmu Alpha Is equivalent to/ meeting many of the more active etudcntu of pant years.
Idle Thoughts 
of an 
Idle Night 
Student
wisr
VT UhVIr-2 t>s?
Thh&I
ImqT- F7&3 I.37 o 
dsIh-hsh 2&*l Iw
IV -&Hv ca h;s CIssyss eacBCd b I Ss*^ 'Tbjhs wQJ b 
sa o.y53 aajS as srz IssI vI v&rsrIzb II (pHhss &h srajf* HH rtss tt fes agii- tffsr'sf w."?', eonsew io-a er^rsAw ci ?i AraCsibTsliss 2L- ba2j? wc ay si '" e'3 2.
That yca i n ifte rsss-rets-sn lr-s yw a^e rs to fc l^sstd Is mHoy rprisj, ttl- nsVs, ehsciis and hsldup. if 'e bshw m u*4 tafc* tb . .i ampie e w/)*t happens. R.
LES.ary -pjvlSo UpHo ngviry amrt my ngbt ptce r
flamine-? fashion 3t H i me lime her and lw/jy vp b a p4lnC
oim9 of rtodf. 2 Ibat I ibnid ts beso dfreo^d to tabs liae. but t&m xafxtakes happen In the bfrst cf re^olated systems. It' only th traigan ypiaUtm pep-l pln^ Qp. So, 1 go orer to the Use here I should have tailed at first and am ito my way t* gain admit* i the campas for Ib yHr
That was a setbHsk not my fault, but the fact still remain* IsHI I res-vtved a criback and per', >r  of tims.
ed somewhat faster than the one I was In pre* v/ously. Gradually' I am getting i, growing nearer and nearer all e time to the goal pwtHegistthock. for I vsa# told that 1 didn't hav* the jualifl-IsIhU-IIv Iar Is tI/o I was loter- "WeJJ, azo you beat that
addec T ??aj? ^hokd 10 nd vat that Komefody didn't end In toy qualification*, or eampln. A little explanation and aeareh, bos/ever, did tbe trick, and I calmed down a bit when I foond out that every* tblng was OK and I could go along
That holdup, not in the ordinary ense of the warq but nevertheless It lH H salqp lar qao'I ya hold up your money and doesnt
kick? I d,d to part with the shekels, especially these day when we have lany plaees to put them and > to fill. So what?
Eligibility Of | Council to Issue Art School TojEngineerg Will 
Candidates Is! fficiat BaHts Vote on Friday! Elect Officers
?iewlv Definedr^Ctor5Ti Be.Ask*d ToL ------------ Election to Be Held In
_______ I SboK Reparation Card |October 12 Is^Dale Set j Union Saturday Evening
Coming Elections Will* Cr^3- Fta ComxoS lectioj | ^ ^ a&ir ^ !ie
- !a*i EsseaSr*, d^ec^ed aof ap-^e Croreined J?y iVevr merz?. S C Euisg 1^ elwascs  fixers is___ j siree rjE. 4DOUG aS ^les y
srfs* hI *073* a s anl8?!^ 810 Cw=<rf3 *ias 5r *= '
Council Rcceivee Gavel 
From Prof. K.D. ShaiFer
The Night Student Council 1
In honor of the occasion the Council ha made a nllver plate for attachment to the gavel. The plato Ih flultahly engraved with the name aI the donor and the date of pre* enUitlon. The Council feels grat- by the gift and la very api>reThlrr.y-nlne freshmen were promman HCDAA . during ^Rush Week at the Unlvernlty of Florida.-Campus Allegheny College.
[Xiibcrty Sngpaving Company]]
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. ' 
PHOTOGRAPHY, 
COLOR,NEWS and COMMERCIAL
------'ART-------
FOR ALL ILLU STRATIVE 
PURPOSES
j-Ohz tie y*hbII gasi: 
vssz-A-Zy&hA a tw sh *1 remotelhHzH jporzhIzz asd
tesaTH (A aS&! o zb s&-rr o3- 
sorz 32 tig 3fgtt Stedesit hvAj 
T sSsvIo sSIIS are is3 q
Is V&SdSl 2-4 Z?JgEOl>5rTS G hIh
g* SicdsKt COTsrf, Xs B! 
s is Carc&Se FSaSd axd "?gS SsaS CsSjgiaa. Tia-t se^aJaRS-tiES t y&cfTii ai>
aS o 2ie TzszsOhjr Ccaicsliee _ vhbhsBShy ts sad -sriJS be' ratsT -wih hk Imsssiwder iai^ie rs%-ia bt-y
calif are jclirj, Tce'ftssdil.dar
sii atttesdaziee birars a 77e<;i. (TshrIy ohIs pr year wJ be /*?- (Hhrq SH Is Depaitiseot of Mafie, Co!Jee o Fioe Arts.) Portier 
candidal ms sH-r eared s> zs-l ao Night Stndeni CcmcD vS-rhIls A--HrhTb aet effect of ibe nev ar*
ha manifest taelr Interest In isore than the eztra^arricalar -srcrL The scholastic ruling tOI, of
Tbe -arbahob Is bat a vry brh- rsm aI the ow ralo and tbe Indenta are orged Ia read tbe reg* vhHlhaov carefully and bhv them qa heed when attending the elections. These niles are oI forth fully oa pages VA and 35 of tbe new Handbook. Tei7ose is nrged ta faiolllarlze themselves Trlth Isz oesr rules and avoid confusion ' and mlinusderslandlage that vrill only rre Ia qoIraY tbe c*/nrwjj I 4s3 eaUsfls iTfcz 5i4s2sa&50 ? rf
"ArI IS*sr tit Mis fer SM tj^ Jas erStM. GVPnOL2- -xrg33 ! ^ ~. 
a>e X22 CaH^ etf Fse Ajs 
I t.cj>3 lie a-TnPM ifeiidSroi o oFWday, Oc30b?r 32. ia 
a Ih Arls Se*!?. The 
asaiy t lie Arts Sctw3 irsJ be 
!ec5fr3 as 7&-
Workers Offered 
Honorary Awards
Point Sjstem Explained For 
Guidance of Candidates
One of ibe most popular traditions on the night campus is tbe presentation or the Klgbt Student Council Insignia Award at tbe end of eah school year. Tbls Is purely an honorary award for meritorious activities work on tbe campns. It Is a mucb fought award, and one for which all students should strive.In order Ia guarantee that each student earns the award only upon completion of a mifllcleot amount of work, the Xigbt Student Council has set up a point system whereby the student can earn his award in several different ways. One of the most iavored ways to gain the In- sJgTjfa'is by aidtatJcg at ibe preparations for the various Night Student Council Dances. This work may he In the forruf of selling tickets, decorating tbe ball or general v/ork during tbe dance. However, it Is essential that tbe student who expects to earn the award assist at the aalrs of his own college as well as aiding the Night Student Council.
Student Gives Council 
Insignia Awards Records
The flies of the Xlght Student Council were greatly enhanced and
seniatlon hy Mr. E. E. McDonald of a complete history of the Insignia Awards made by the N'Ight Student Council'.' The ifle should" lie of great Inttrewt to the Coun- clt as a record of previous preeen' tatloos. In addition to this hlf>- lory, a copy of the souvenir menu of each dinner that ha been given to dale was also presented, thereby making a novel historical collection to be Included in the records of the Council.
DINE and DANCE 
KAHNSiRILL
MURRAY AVENUE and DARLINGTON NDjM
Home Cooked Food 
Moderate Prices
NO COVER CHARGE
^ 'Hhe Qu ich ReferenceBoo/t^^ 
w/of Information on All Subjects NSSjWebsters CollegiateOhe Best Abridged Dictionary
/? 4s0A>~-7/*>IrR
worlc. oitogeth 
DpI a- EobUIs UoltolIy
rhHSvr bees aargey ek, | essq t5B rqz& < ha s ddIeds. Ts Ctease! asj jSB a rvshh bI/rrHSds- 1
513 le aW
ci ib* Clese of Engineering -il 
b shq rvI Saturday rohoz Ot
Iabr 23 zh the L>a5oa ao Is third 
2&w o the dniaisliaiios BaCd* 
5.. Tshs affaJr irflj b Is anssaJ ssahr a^d elei{f= of o& 
: CS73. Tss iasdions bare-, hs 
hprrvHs y^zrs been 
j lvo<q asd J; is bo^ed 
Siletmen Wanted For 
Distribution of Puppet \
 T PappI? CHrobh's eotrtri* 
button Ia the fun of Is cation. Ss 
again sb^viss Us besieged bHq 
ironiid the camp&g. Periaaps it 
bsaHIq b ssl that I rslIs ah 
Is Puppet are sbonisg annicd the caspus, CT havent ya noticed?
Program Requires 
Stndent Support
Aid of Students Solicited By | 
!Nigbt Student Council
The Night Student CoancQ win | 
zpODsar maay actfrifSes and social \ 
yIr* fco- what l'meaa; ibe^jiisctlMiS tfsiiag the coming yea 
chaps with the Eagiiab ss of]as it has dose In :he pact, it j buisor who sit thrcagioat a 2t- j 0iiT5fjH3 tha* mocb wtns must b tor biting their, sails a=d thee j j Sa order that these focction &? have so the poicti 4jj ^ bHttsshHm This year Vcu 
' the Puppet's quips. TH | sh^sl Student Council offers tbe |
ior_OTicr^Tfee radius wfc a ;O:7,_c?3_ in b. fa. is .
scbaaied *73 Ftiay I es- h TSsh of hs &mshhI& 
 hsv *&ea3d rry po-ssb!? e* i -sriu b hs hHssI and sa*IIvo* -Thl? 7T$H\ y* '" r; ,, ^*03, lebte la saoher eTeiBsss hI rreteessary Cw lae stedeatr^ - ^ -htf, chepas. Tha. they, tie corsilo 5?!ay L'ii csrdj Tss seSwASss o sd5l o&tsrs hs j R ^ %aTe 70Ad bard WTrardbvt gaio a^Scitacce >w> Lsen -; r^h hsIyarIHsa ta every j =ri be dsroonstrajedeect. as ^e a to yic73re Ss 5 stHa*') acd ] sr-ea tie vare*?Tfitai iaporasos
tajara ' ' - j des?. res*iT!  hb stHtoh _____
T-Iz zv roles z2&A aS aigb g rjcefve care=3 J programsiests. as s x%->a* l93 fe s 53oa- ass=is wfeo CR9I j>e J Teciaz.S5df, The dsi o tie Co2ee f -aia rep.res'at b
St 1*193 b Sesr utaiy w loo> afies'r Ssvsrhs^ asd tie Ccl^e  1 Vi95d eir ee<l!.o; 5 to r
r;ghl Stsdert CoascS! asd'b li eJ^:ti
Ibis gaxi s
Wa their regirtrgaioa cards. Ot&jriw. i*7 vO] be osab2e auesd Ib eetoa. la -tv of i gnal filterest scsiitd Sc she =2 sew ieateris tsaagarax^d this y;^ecUoas. good ots are expes  ' "
S irifiTtsss of thifr scscoL Also, jjiiis ni be the Sr=s eecUoo seder ' ibe cew eligibility rules ac<3 w pruTde as escelisst opporinclt; for obtsetTicg ttea ic operaji^z The choice of cazrdidats will be soserwhai restricted by ihe j sioas of the sev systesi- vbicb concern their prerfons records
The average dnsatlon tq eathqsske sboci: is estfcaated by experts at 45 saenods.  DaDy
Didja Notice
r HI least.
THAT even the old-timei little trcuble flndint the
THAT the Friday, when the Art School Sinfs its loins, 'er sumpn, to elect Ha officer.
THAT the Engineers pull off their annual balloting on Saturday.
THAT rumor hath it that the elections should he interesting
Ing the corridors with pros and
THAT activities workers.Puppet salesmen, contributors to this page and other hard working gentry ar gettingtheir annual requests to get rid of that inferiority complex.THAT youse guys and youse
THAT most of e
THAT I may not have a new editor after all.THAT the eoln of the realm Is always scarce after registration.THAT from now on there'll be lots more nev/s, what with everything going full steam.THAT thats that, and 1*11 be
Zfril&s to a sufficient vIoI Ia win CooncQ Award s'Ul is all proba*
dent i . . . ___other phases of the It Is hoped that I wQl be present for the election f
Stndent Questions Old
there.S iboMidtar. dear, psopie | Insignia Award ,jt-.who JCilst on tellJDg you. jot* Isas stcdesis ba are wiuirz..lyoo thlci: yoa se ifce answer to a 1 -  -- ^= ----- 1 particularly a^oyisg calculo?ndacce _t2iis year vGl b? 20 ez*jpjvIblsm tie bet story thai c^s 
appeared in this mouths PappeL Sureiy you iiave met these people, and. 2iieT a little thought, you wSl agree that the Puppet Is showing
Should anyone feel the urge Ia br*2n out ja print with the finest jak a- tbe year, or aay of the; pahs taros from under their j bushel to bring a smile to this sad. j ad. world, tbe Poppet Is the place to take these potential mirlb- quakes. Incidentally,
1 Saturday
rreat will. 
This is <bolding of Is affair and 3hould so* be lest sight of in tbe minds of those atiesdiog. The selection of caadjdates shimld be gireo con-:ride.tble thought 1 ' "cast with the Idea i: sacoessful candidat. representatlres of tbe Engineering school in the Xlgbt Student Council. Also, do not overlook the fact hsHh they must meet all of the requirements of the new eligibility rntesL This will make it for students to check previous records of the intend to nominate ii void embarrassment or lar election. However,
A31 students
opponnoIy offers. It is hoped that many new warhrs will volunte for service in activities as i_. CosacD Has been hasdicapped by 1
ae past
men theyi order to
be free to enjoy themselves.Tbe smoker will gift provide the ntudents with an opportunity of earning some of the points ne>CfisTbls Is the Srsi sodai event of tb> id ibe wise stndenis will coma out now and start piling up
The JCIgbt Stodent Consci] presents annually, at the tlas cf tbe school year, an event hnowu as the Faculty Dinner. As tbe name would imply, this is an affair at which the various department heads of the Night School join with the meiubeis of the Xigbt Student Council to discuss any suggestions or recommendations which may be forthcoming in regard to the three nJgbt colleges, During the course of the discussions at the last dinner, ooe of the members of tbe council stressed a point that has long been a bone of contention between educators. The member stated that the stndent Is sot given sufficient csltnral training In addition to bis technical subjects during the course of hisNight School. His vlevis, that the cultural subjects offered were mere addenda at tbe end of tbe various courses. This question of whether a student attends an engineering school to study engineering subjects alone.
with the technical work, has long
uatiou requirement
by. the Plaid.
NSC Awards Honorary 
Insiginias to Advisors
DHo Mary Walson Green and Dean A. W. Tarbell were each presented with an honorary Insignia Award aI tbe Insignia Presentation Dinner given during the Summer by tbe Night Student
awards hare been presented, and the Council rightly feels that tbe first should go to those whose untiring efforts as Faculty Advisers
Dean Mary Watson Dean A. W. Tarbell have shown great interest in the work of the Council, and their aid and co-oper--| atlon are gratefully acknowledged.
lead other rnemberf it was disclosed in a surrey conducted at Lehigh University. Men who have been voted the <>biggest dreamer have made the best records. and those acclaimed the bigbecome imbn&d witb ?ing desire lo try the tricks of thefr trade os the night student
the Stndent Council Ofice where they will be cordially receive^.' As a reward for the service of selling the Puppet on the night campus, a unique award is given at the end of eacb pubication year. This award is a black enameled silver replia of the first letter of the Puppet banner.(Fashion Sal: The weU dressed student is wearing a Puppet
Those ^rbo '=l5h to become Candi- qHvs -ar the Insignia Award I ssalq soq Ibs-r sames and . 'dres-es to tbe Night Student Council, Bav 135, Camene lui., tote of Technology. ScbenJey Park, i Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  1
The five most heavily endcadversities ta the United St___are Harvard. Tale. Columbia. Chi- '
STUDENTS
WANTEDFive hundred Typewriters, all makes. Portable* and Standards, sold, ranted, repaired. $3-00 one month, $1000 five months.
American WriUijg
Machine Company601 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIarrtic 5483 See our School representative DICK HAMMOND
PeoplesPittsburgh
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
THE OAKLAND 
BANK"
$
V
IN THE 
CENTER OP 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
i*' M *F.Vi bVJHY1p 
FVHVF4V H|H.Vs
... and while were
the cigarette thats MILDER.
the cigarette that TASTES RmmN
MONDAT WEDNESDAY SATURDAY
brso fpaj r.RETK
PON&ELLE MASTINI STUECKGOLD
KOsTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS 
? P. M. tn sd gdi hPryTlFCo fvgurbO_L
