jyfeo must be at liberty to 
say in prhit whatever they 
have in; mind tQBay, pro
vided it Svron ge bo one.  
CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 30. NO. 10CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITlSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1935
Closed Period | 
Inaugurates 
Plebe Rushing
Dates* for Restricted 
Five-Day ^Period Set 
By Council
14 FRATERNITIES 
DATE 42 5 PLEBES
Fraternity Men Mu6t Call 
On Freshmen at Time 
Scheduled on List
Closed rushing, which marks the opening of the annual fraternity rushing period, began yesterday at
11:20 and .will-last until-9:00. p. m.,Friday, December 6.
Pates for the five-day restricted period have been arranged by the Interfra-ternity council. Each of 
lie sixteen fraternities received ils list of dates at the meeting of Ibe council on November 23. Fre6b- eceived notice of thel '* dl last Tuesday. Dat< mode with 425 fresha
I NOTED EXPLORER
Rule Corrections
In a recent lBBue of the Tar
tan the following changes in the' (ralernily rushing rules were not noted. Rule 2 should read, "Each rushee shall be out of the presence of fraternity men by 9 P. M:; Rule 3;''Dating-'period shall begin at 4:20 P. M., Monday, December 9;" Rule 4 "On Friday evening, December 13,
Rule 12, All chargee of violation shall be put in writing by the fraternity making tbe cbarge and shall be presented to the president of Inter* fraternity council by January 11, 1936."
scheduled in the dating lists. If a freshman cannot fceep-'the arranged dates, he should notify the, fraternity involved as no fraternity 
alone nifiy mak-'* date with a rushes during the-restricted period,
. , The Jly:d&y..-.rQB.tdctea^nish|ng. ittlca ives the'freshmen' opportunity of choosing .three' of'fbrir fraternities to b'e considered by him daring (he open rushing . period when each fraternity will make its own dateB.
During the'restricted period the Inlerfraternlty council ,wlll consider three periods eachday. They we lunch, dinner, and evening dales, the latter to be over by 9:00.
Allen E. Rlsedorph, faculty advisor to the Interfraternlty council, spoke lo an assembly' of freshmen interested in hearing discussion of fraternities. Mr. Rlsedorph spoke on the factors to be considered in choosing a fraternity and what fraternity life means to an undergraduate. About 250 freshmen attended the assembly.
Girls In Class 
Are All RightOr All Wrong
Men Students Disagree 
On Mixed Glasses 
Questionaire
classe they e
ome engineering 
ight, but in others good; according? all
given by ^several 'Male students wben asked their opinions of the idea of girls in.their classes.
Some of the engineering students thought that the presence of the female oi the species in their classes had an uplifting effect, but most of the architects questioned looked none to favorably upon the benefits that might be derived.Those question were picked .at random and were not warned ahead of time that their answ< might be publicised, and maybe even held against them.William Skewig 37, an engineer, said "Girls are .no good in some classes. Their presence cause the class to be unable to discuss many important subjects.Said Thomas Landau *38, also an engineer, I'm not in favor of - i'iiuv;- tfrl lti'SmV fcYasses Bvtch- aa English, .because there is always loo much sexy discussion going In oiher classes that' are strictly business they are all right."An architect, Sherman Patterson 38 said No good. They sit up In front of the' professor arid he hands out good grades to tb Neal' Sparks 36. an architect1 6ald Girls are a handicap in some classes such -ae Public Speaking,  Sc&e of ih i>oys choose subjects to talk about. that- cant be discussed before girls." . William McGuire '30, an engineer nought It's a swell idea.: It *dds to the atmosphere , of the cas,. Irving Gruber '36, an engineer,
in the classes causes fhe-----w work harder. Their presence b beneficialJack Sill, architecture- 38.said They cramp' ones:-stvle.- HowcJri a fellow -elt upJn  class; and d , tobacco andieplt on'the.ra -..torifthere.are.wotnen-around?
Todays Assembly In 
Little Theatre; Author 
Tells of Adventures
Harrison Forman, writer, explo and skilled aviator who wl speak at Assembly this morning.
Rev.OConnell 
Killed By Auto
Baum Boulevard Mishap 
KeBiilts in Death
S t, Pa u V* Pa s t or
Chaplain of Newman Club 
AndCatholic'Studtiie
Rev. E-. Lawrence OConnell, chaplain of the Newman club, and chaplain for Catholic students ii
headron collision with another .auto^ 6&ireMi^^rDrhoHlTvi'r'd'rVsult?d in'fatal Injuries to leather OConnell, and. he died without regaining consciousness.'.
" Funeral' services were held Friday morning at the SL Pauls Cathedral; Rev. Edward O'Connell, brother of the deceased said the mass-. The Newman club posted continuous guard of honor fro: Tuesday night until the time of the funeral.
Father OConnell, was assistant pastor of St Pauls Cathedral. Prior to his acceptance of this partorage he was pastor of Sacred Heart Parish.After graduating from Duquesne University In 1916, Father OConnell attended St. Vincents, graduating from that school in 1920. He was principal of Cathedral IHlgli School, and an instructor of psychology in ML Mercy College.A discussion group for Catholic students of all Pittsburgh colleges was organized and conducted by 
Father O'Connell.___________
Gathering Changed From 
Music Hall to Arts 
Building Theatre
HARRISON FORMAN 
SPEAKS ON TIBET
Moving Pictures Illustrate 
Talk on Mysterious 
Oriental Customs
speaker. His talk will be illustrated by moving pictures.
A land where mysterious ri*es are performed In monasteries bnilt against sheer mountainsides, where human bodies are fed to giant vultures in ghastly' funeral services and where some men have many wives and some women have many husbands, wlll'be brought close to students by Mr. Forman. *
Mr. Forman studied Oriental Philosophy at the University of Wisconsin. When he finished , working his
several years In Chicago studying
aeronautical echool,
Fascinated by eastern culture. Mr. -Forman made a trip to. China and Tibet! the Top of the World,'
tnres. During th Japanese trouble In Shanghai he held a machine-gun post In the -f9hzngii7''y61npteerfl and, with- -a Japanese pass, beai
expedition to Turkestan.' Tt wi disrupted and scattered by. Chinese bandits. His two white-companions were murdered by the bandits but.he continued, eied far.into the of. a rogstera TOPuataljLhJehetJliaiL] Everest. /twas" a iear.hefora'Tia [ re-emergedl
Mr Forman has been a sailor < freighters and 'passenger shins,
Friend) to most of the Chinese high officials.
His ' book "-Through Forbidden Tibet has just been published. He has given -radio and platform lectures in Shai pore; Bombay,United States. He is the author of a manual on flying. He has wri- many articles and is at present or4Cease Firing in 1918 Stopped 
War Guns Only Temporarily
Italy Japan and Germany Menace World Order; 
Starved by Post-War Peace Settlements, 
New Conquests Are Desired by Nations
By Or. R. D. Gregs
Cease firing sounded along 
hundreds' of miles of battlefront in 
November 191$ and for a time the 
earth stopped trembling with the rumble of the "big guns. Now It Is shaking-again to . the same tune of the guns and the; same tramp oC millions of. men. wt* all other warlike signs at present written in the skies stand those of three major powers, starved, they feel,, by the post-war peace settlements. They are Italy, Japan, and Germany In the order of their present, but not necessarily of their future, menace to world order.
Basically all three suffer in common the fate of the "have nots. Germany, orice moderately rich in natural resources, fell before ad- vjvivciag Allied armies,- -bicckadlag- navies, and a stern peace J ,A' painful amputating - - -
d in Uie' at Ver- l of her
M.'abe land, 12 per cent of ber live stock, 10 per cent of her manufac- turine ' establishinente, 40 per cent
sailles she lost -16.5 i
of her lead, and, overseas, all of her colonies. Italy and japan, albeit on the winning side, went into -th* War YitH-vcry-little j.n -the. wav of natural resources and came Gut with very little more. Perforce the oddly-assorted , three stand-together. although distance and the complications :of world politics will probably, prevent them from, strik-ID* hands in aUlance^ ;.__
Itoly^WanU Ethiopia Just now. Italy absorbs international attention with her stroke for possesion of-Ethiopia: : If. she Is
aubious,Ustream?. perhap/trickle is
*nd coffers. If arid wastes, fev<
plunge Europe and the world into another great conflict whose issue is too horrible to envision.
In the meantime, while the world follows Italy with: bated breath, Japan having: erected the puppet state of Manchukuo north
northern China. Five more provinces have  suddenly decided in
ulation of -95,000,000 persons
plored natural resources japan
. _.. .jaterials for .her factories. Like Italy; Japan is overcrowded and her annual- net Increase in population is the greatest per capita "of any major; nation -about 
900,000. '
Japan Must Expand Like Italy- she must spread sher. people .thiao^r- -new-sres .or.in.- crease their productivity and standard of living at' home through ever greater industrialization. Only in the temperate zones , do the Japanese, like most peoples, migrate successfully. w of these : 
Most parts' _es, however. are_ bav-.........them by rigid" white monop-oly. with Btiff immigration restrlc-. tions. The only answer 1 -------
markets of the. United States.' the British -Dominions. - and / India (Continued on Pa e Two)
S.A.E. Loses All 1 Fraternity Rights
In answer to many inquiries,- Sigma Alpha Epsll- Ion fraternity, expelled .lest week- from InterlraternUy.; 
counciil for, failure to mee,t the penalty imposed tor 6 ' constitutional violation, hat;' 
th following status*-  r-: 1. It Is no longer a're, 
ognlzed fraternity.  '' ' . I;:2.. It is not permitted dates with any freshman dui>, Ing the closed . rushing p& rl^d.   Jr 3. it shall not be ineiv? tloned in any of the college ' publications, either official' ' or student, nor shall It tak6
Intercalerai tv council,- An?; infractions of the rules will ' be placed in the hands' ori: the dean of Men. >The. Sigma Alpha ' EpslloniX organization was found guiitj}. ; 'of violating .the Constitution General rfratemtj that they,
the remainder of the yeari1/ and that the man In question must move from house. : Tbei; SAEs refused to meet the), penalty and were, automatlc-l1 ally expelled from the coun-l cil. N ,
Nine Portraits 
Are Awarded
Six Fraternities Receive 
Carnegie' Portraits
Rale High Honors
Forbes, Birch and Scob^ll 
Halls Receive Picture^:
.. ,Nlne framed jiytral tB^ot 
^Cainegre^Vere^presented .the
campus . fraternities and dormitor
ies having tho highest scholarship. The pictures are ,the gifts v of. the Carnegie Corporation of New. York.
Several 'creeks. ago. Dean Arthur W. Tarbell was approached. by a representative of one of the campus fraternities which desired a copy of the picture. The matter was- re. ferred, to tbe Carnegie- Corporation which offered not one picture but nine.
Tho problem of fair distribution of the portraits arose end was Anally settled by awarding the pictures to the dormitories and fraternities having the highest academic rat* ing.
Six of the eighteen - fraternities
Rbo, i Kappa Alpha. Theta XI, and'
and-Scobel hall, mens dormitory,, were also given.portraits.
Delivery of the pictures was made on Tuesday- following the. Car? negle Day-exercises.
Has Anyone 
Seen Pitts 
Megaphone?
Cause If We Return It 
Then We Get Ours 
BackYipee! :
nor bruises Thanksgiving'..day, the Tech cheerleaders 'and kiltie band suffered several lossesl The 'cheer; leaders are shy. one '  megaphone,
k of two'freshman., architects, proclaiming Lets Tech PUt-V was torn to ribbons by the PiU Panther. Later the Panther pilfered one of the two Carnegie  aiega- phones and hurled the same r.into
from which point : It-, was, tossed over the wall into-the street. From there the. Instrument disappeared In retaliation an ardent Tech- rooter walked home with a Pitt mega.phone , ................................
According.to Tony Prendes>:head chreeTleader,' thevPltt cheerleadlng. squad will see. that th-Tech: mga-| phone or its^equivalent Is'returned it the Tiltmegaphone le forwarded 
to them:
Copies of Carnegie 
issue Note Available
  Extra' copies of. the: Andrew. 
Carnegie - Centennial' Memorial 
Issue of the. Tartan may be obtained by communicating wlttu 
.or calling at .the -Tartan office. 1
Foyer Niche 
Models Judged 
La st Night
Prominent Architecte 
Sculptors... ComDOse . ; 
Competition Jury
NE\^ PROGRAMME 
SYSTEM INSTITUTED
Department o Sculpture 
Trye to Give Problems 
Local Settings
Prominent sculptors and archi
tects met -last night to judge tbe 
imposition sketches submitted by 
student's of ' the Department of 
Sculpture in their current competi
tion, A Figure for a Niche. Later award,' based on public balloting, will be made.
The Department of Sculpture 
here has previously been affiliated' with tbe Beaux Arts Society of New York. But this year, due to the lack of funds In the. New York so- .iety th work with them h&B been given up;- Instead, the programs being Written locally. In commenting upon the. change of system. Professor Joseph Bolley EUls, head of the department says, "We are getting., perhaps; more out of It .because- we^ can present a location, or setting-which the students, can see and .study at/Drat hand. This .of qojirs, gives them a work- Ing knowledge of th reducemente on which they can base their finished sketches. It gives ' us also, through' the medium of the lor.a) jury afine chance to spread the news of the departments work to those Penie in the city who at lrested In th fine'arts
6keteh9 SymbcHIra Arts 
The .'procram, for .<'ls competition
flpitreH 'sneclflcftllv; deslcned to c'upy these unfilled locations. Inasmuch.'os the college 1m the home of five departments each interested in ' a 'sneci'flc art and the furtherance of Ihn Flne Arts in general;-.-it ru&po'aed'.llial'
conels* of at least one figure with suitable accessories and bevworked out for., either a stone or.-bronze completion.
 .^Members of the Invited lury who iudced the work last night 'John L. porteT. Chairman  of the Carnegie Institute of-.Technology. Committee .of the Board ;of True- tens; Henry Hornbostle, iHarvey .Schwab, and Alexander Schi architects; Frank Aretz.. Charles Bradlev Warren, and-WHliam Luther McDermott, sculptors: and John F. Lnhoon. Director of the P; W. A. activities for the greater Pittsburgh' district.
Figures to Be Exhibited 
The jury, having met and looked
ground snace, subject, and size. All the sketches were, placed in scale model of the niches. Awards given these nieces were First Men: tlon Placed. First Mention, Mention and one-half Mention..
 All the sketches, twenty- were submitted In the compeMi win he placed on exhibition-in the ife^-llet-Room-whijh- .be apaa to those interested - In sculpture. The outstanding piece, will' be placed In the model niche. In effovt to get public interest and establish an idea of what the av age student would like, ballot slips [and i
Bausch, Lomh 
To Interview 
Seniors Soon
Ability, Personality Are 
Prime Requisites
next Monday, December 9, by representative of - the . Bausch- and, Lam\> Optical, Company/of Roche?-' ter. New. York. - Appointments for Interviews-must-be-made promptly In Mr.- Beatty.s-office. ..
 Mr F. Av Eaton;-'the representative: ' states that hisvcompany isi interested-, in men. who have high iscbolastlc  rating, personality, presentable 'appearance.- - and- who| -have--been active in eTtra-currlcu- aat activities and' who- will be: in- (tgreat^d: l.n.: uie-PJif^itiiring, aafi_.en- -plneering-'&s a career. ...The ;com- many -proposed to take" selected ^nien,: not ae employes, but -prentices . In a training course ..of :twenty-live - weeks duration., after iwblch: these men will be absorbed :tn the manufacturing or engineer- tng^rvisTons-onhe compfiny. .
:. On Wednesday and Thursday, December 11* and-. 12, at. 9:00
Skibos Close Season 
Deadlocking Panthers
Brama Dept. 
To Produce 
Shakuntela
Weird Piny Is Famous 
As Literary Work; 
Starts Tomorrow
ALBERT LOVEJOY TO 
DIRECT NEW PLAY
New Drama Professor Mokes 
Tech Debut; Miss Kitcat 
Supervises Cast
Albert Lovejoy, professor of dra
ma, makes his debut as n producer 
of plays. at Tech with the presen
tation of "Shukunt&la' at the Lit
tle Theater next Wednesday . eve
ning.
Sh&kuntala Is regarded as. the 
greatest play that hoe come from 
the East In translation. It was first 
Introduced to the Western world by 
Sir William Jones In 1769 and was 
& literary sensation despite thel 
'French revolution; There has 1 
beon no professional production of 
tbe play in America, probQbly be
cause. It .was. felt, .that .the poetic 
delicacy of the ..lines,  the -tenuousnesB of the-plot, and- the difficulty 
of gainlng^BCceptance of .a. proscntailon' in the. style  of "the; stage'  of Indio- would be hard to overcome.
Kalidasa,, the - author of- Shakun- talaj'Ms. vaguely placed by Hlpdus In', tbe .'first -century before Christ and is.accredlted'wlth several plnyn 
jy .distinctly different in type and spirit..that German and. English jchb1ar^are^.ln.clingd,jto^hfti;tbeoFy. 
Mhc....................................daaea.
Latest scholarship places the play somewhere between the fourth and sixth century, so vague are the records.in; a. country, where past present and future fuse myrticRlIy. Something of.-this mystical, quality! appears in the play,..In the.exotic- ism of Its story In a.falry world and In the lyric fancies ot the llnee.
The stage .of the play when originally performed was probably, the end of the hali in a royal palace with only Buch decorative background as the room ltBelf supplied.
movements, dances, and above all on the cooperation of the audience In imaginative realization. The acting was according to a ritual of Inthat the audience did not need see done.
The eurhylhmlc movements In the play are. being directed by Miss Cecil Kitcat 
The cast Includes.:. Jane Francey .36, Mary Lou Meh- ler '36,'-George Lloyd 37; W.lIIiam Davis *36, Virginia Martin .37, Mary Ann Hughes *37, - Sarabel Browar- ekjv !.Wr, Marr -Ghcify - , aT<?cephBatcheller '36,' Milton- Goldbloom
YalTec 3C,-- Thomas Kehler, '37, Louise Hewlit 38, Carmelita Jac- ques- '39, Dan Matley 39, Nina Rubenstein '39, Francs Tiegal *38, and Jpanne Osterholt 38. '
Tartans Play Inspired Ball 
To Again Upset Grid Dope
Final Game Was Rugged Affair with Pitt Squad 
Bottled Up Completely; Three Field Goals 
Fail; Randour Drops Pass on Goal Line
By Scotty CharleB
Once move an inspired Carnegie football squad upset all tho  - 
inside dope to top morolJy r team that was rated t Jeost, lirec .; 
touchdowns its superior. Rising to heights which huvn been ficbn : ' 
11" top seldom this yetir, the Tnrfcan squad surmounted all ob6tacles to maze the footbftll public with a scoreless deudlock 
against, the highly lnudcd Panthers of the University of PittsNYA Program 
Helps243Here
Tech Students to Receive 
$30,000 by June I
Work In Demand
Applications. Double,Jobs 
Available at Present
Two hundred forty-thTee Car
negie students, over 11 per cent 
ot the total day school enrollment, 
are ;reoelving'financial assistant In 
the form of part time emplojnnent 
made possible by-funds provided by 
tbe federal . government through 
its National Youth Administration. 
By June 1,' wb^en tho work program 
will end, Curnegle students will 
have-received a total of npproxlmatelyri30,000.
The funds allotted to . Carnegie 
are belng used to'provide the typcs
arlly undertaken by^atudents who 
are working their way. through oo|; 
lege. These Include clerical, 11-, 
brary, laboratory, research, and 
recreational ,-work, -. The. hourly, 
rate of pay. varies from 40 to 60' 
cents; depending upon the type of 
work done, and the average nibnth- ly salary Is $1E> with a maximum of $20 per month. Thus the student Is required to work from 30 to 37^ hours a month In . order to' earn. $15. The hours of work are so arranged as not .to Interfere with class hours.
' According to Mr. D. McKelway,. N. Y. A. administrator &t Cnrnegic,
were carefully considered by & mlttee of four members of.tho ad* ministration 'staff, and the most needy students were1 awarded the jobs. Although need was the principal basis for selectton, tb<
using federal, funds for Btudent aid
?burgh in the annual'Thanksgiving
i tho ,.long end of odds that ranged., bo* >weon five and ten to one boforo tbe game with very fow talcelrs .at ' and price. However, for the second' time this season, the Plaid laughed :. at the bookmakers and made -for ' another Bad day for tbe easy money contingent. . ;
Th score shows n tie. the flta* tletlcs show Plf t the better team, ., and vet the victory has-been ooi)* ': ceded to Carnegie, The-bard fighi- Ing Skibos played n beautiful dp-. : fensive game tbnt bottled up kho ^ far-famed Piti offense In ' airtight {fashion.'--........
Neither tenrn prceon^ed R, aeriou3 .v scoring threat all afternoon and from:, the disinterested - speotntorto, . standpoint the game was rather. ;
wise be unable, i
Co-ed Engineering Invaders 
Deplore Mens Low Morals
Nice and Considerate, 
But Do Too Much 
Apple Polishingn
Three co-eds -bavo Invaded the masculine Department of Engineering and Printing, and although
Strauss. Sp., found their fears ofj jw^flrjiv.aa-r.jlowjpwjca.'. and... courses eo groundless that - they] plan to continue In similar, classes hext vear.
-Placed in-the position of being tbe "only girl in the class. Dorothy jarrett found the men-"very nice and considerate/- She has taken four- mathematics  courses and -managed to:get. through .without any. greater effort than- would| have been expended In M.:M: C. C.
lhat &'general fcnowledge..of-the technical end 'of the fleld. wlll : be beneficial.- Commenting uponthe.courses In general.- Mis - Strauss , pointed: outlL difference between Margaret Mormore from the students. A really serious attitude^ toward .the .subject is required, and the examinations i more coherent and thorough.
male student in one of Miss Maha-. ram's classes: says that-"she Is a! genuine challenge to the class: thel boye/work hard to.see that Bhel doesn't- excel-them. especially in,al*| gebralcanalyslfl.". Of the engineers.- Miss.-Maharam
terrible*.- they borrow- problems, and -apple-polish' the professor which is something
Head of1 Mathematics! finds "students from Margaret. Mor* I Ison agreeable to-work with,:, and likes- them ..to: come over; it-, they I good- students." . According .<;o|hlm.'the -popular-opinlon held,; that girla are';a disturblng infiuei 
male classes is not true.'
green.of,the S'adlum JaRt Tbnrailay/ ! could . notbut bo -thrilled at :lb flno< exhibition1 of clean hanl football ; that woe offered 
On the (Pitt flele,q tbe ledger ; thoy-have consolation-In'the-.fact -.; tha>- they had a b touchdown -and , muffed It when Hnb Randour droij* - | ped a-.paso In th end zone ^ith one. near him. (Randour. had beei*- slightly ln.1ured . on. the prov)ou9v:: nlay and I this may.-account fonth:^ muff- which helned mako' lt a. sweli;-,(| dnv fnw. rojj$ie;ij.ThC"Ot!y^*ii^r= !THnlJPitt^thTsfit'occnni*ed^Whin,T*iit- v Tiok,. star; placement , klcker of tho -y Panthers, missed tho unrlghs^on- , an attempt from- the fifteen, vard'-i; line. The Pnnthers.mnrched-do^nv;^ to this position but cojild npt mQYar.g the ball once Inside the iwentv:'-.vT:-.:^The Tartan defence -i4:thehigh-- snot of the:contest:^epotty ^t-.llrst. .- they allowed most of the -Pltt a In the first half, &\no- hampering-: themselves .with- offside pei due to their over anxiety. How*:.;*;}!; ever. in the final half; they settled.: down out charged.', the Panthersv and frenuentiv nailed the Blue and Goll ball carriers behind the Uno V * I*- for ' sizeable ..losses. Most of -the.. vti^[j- play in the second halt was; perfA.-iipyu. formed in the Panther territory with' the. Pltte having very little op ; ^ portunity to-open up to an aerial game that micht have spelled dl&> ? aster for the.Tartans ^The Carnegie offensive was de* cidedly low. The tenm seemed consent to play a tight defenaive
(Continued on Page Three)
$800 Dohated 
In -Dollar Day 
Gift Campaign
Four-Million Dollars 
Required to Reeetvo 
$8,000,000 Gift
4
t
More than eight hundred dollars... already- has. been donated to -tho -; annual dollar-day campaign whlc^lstarted on.- November 16. Dollar- day donations will be -added to th -, Ehdownment. Fund, and will  go  to*  : ward'the iour.-7nlll1ondolIajB:whl5fe:v^#if! must be. raised by January 1. 1846, .
offered by the * Carnegie Corpora- ;-
I. Briner Wins
Essay Contest
L. D Briner 7 wag the Vinner : of a recent essay, contest-sponsored^, ., by Tau BeU Pi. He iwaB'prttehtld^ii with a .leather letter case. for\blSitheme ;:on 'the 'BubJect,^vWhatvTaa:{: Beta .Pi can<do for the Collegej-Cfr^' jungineeting-^t-CarnegieA .. The presentatlopv^fas made at\i^l^: initiation banquet at >whlch ColonH^G A Burrell was the prln^n speaker.- Colonel Burrel.^natloMl ly known petroleum engineer..^ho^K was introduced'by- Jt:-0.''McMaSteii^'| 
spoke. on My: ImpreBstoM>BTa'." He stressed,thermoae'coiai^ ing of thevRu89lan; people -'andsl methodsofgoverTimenlv;partiCnJ ly as applied .to': civil affairs.- -;^; -At/.theLmebtlng^iaipropbs^-K- made' to - followv jihe.^ .spneaMfMj^ mode by .the. new Inltlatei . essays >
& J

---------------------------------------------------

3Ttie dTatnc^ie hartan
PHONG HA.TFLOWBB 1
PabUflhedwk' TiatcB t Cttrnegl Fitttbarh Post <
.. Managing. J
i Editor!
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Robert P. Greiner. PHOTOGRAPHIC EDITOR: feoV M. Laita.: EXCHANGES: Roeemiiry B. Pier.- CIRCULATION MANAGER: a. L." Cuteim.TYPISTS; Mary Lou ScblByer.STAFF ARTISTS: C. Sue Fuller, Robert Robison.
JUNIOR . EDITORS::. Louise . Baldy, Alpha Black, Kjcbar -.'vSyriie, Tobjr' Croes, Lola Horner, Jane- Muoa. Adelua
i Stracasley. KaU 
IwartI Mulligan, J
. A Letter of Introduction To a New Experience
M
b. freshman
Dear Sir:
.^ Yesterday when rushiDg period began you 
o entered upon an experience which in a present 
,s sense is exciting and joyful. Looking into the 
: .future you see before you the part of a college 
education which next to academic instruction 
you will find the most valuable and most enS joyablefraternal brotherhood, 
i' : Toil are fortunate to/ be among those who 
j* 7. are .being rushed. Lack of freedom in contact :.ihg and restricted association with upperclass; inen have caused some fine fellows to be omit ted from rushing lists. For this failure to bet
ter, know' the men of the freshman elass we 
 have'to thank a rushing program which is a 
r Compromise between administration and Inter: /fraternity council. It is unsatisfactory to you 
'nd to the; fraternities but we are told, that 
what is, must be.
If you. use the restricted rushing period 
iwisely you will drop at an early date those
* houses which hold the least appeal for you. In 
:: this way you can devote most of the opefi rusliing period to the houses which you may be coneidermg seriously.
/1 Your final selection should be done with care. 
:Yoti will find that the glitter of shining tror phies and the palatial fraternity house, do not 
Ifpnstitute the whole of fraternity life and thej_ 
^should not overshadow the ideals of fellowship
 [and congeniality. The ideals and interests of 
; ithe house should be the same as yours, if they
are otherwise you will be unhappy.
;.V.:V'Her,e. are a few important features which 
.Should underlie your final selection: *
1. The congeniality of the members. Is it 
' ; natural or artificial!
.2.: . The ideals and.interests of the group. 
:^3v'-;The personality of the individual members.
;;^.;..,.,Thft; scholastic standing denoting condi\ tions of study.
.; 5. The financial stability of the house.
: !To you plebe, we offer sincere wishes for a 
. happy and profitable selection of your fraterV-- joltyl.   : .. : :
Senior Interviews Worth Looking Into
 T^TINETY per ccnt of Carnegie Tech stu:v : N dents come to college to better their fi* 
i:; ---kaclat statoa and. economic future. The other 
; / ienper cent probably come for the same reason 
but disguise it under, the.guise of education 
:vfpreducations sake."
year over a hundred lorge industrial 
J 'lOrg^ send their representatives to the
T ^cBllege to interview seniors concerning employvriient' after- graduation. Seniors should take 
-;adyantage . .of  such . interviews. In the first 
::^"pik!ce, after a student has walked into a room 
i-by'jiiinself.and confronted a stranger whom he 
.^l^hes: to impress favorably, he finds that the 
' vneii^time lie is confronted with thes same sit^ti.ition he will be better able to handle himself 
:V aid Consequently better able to make a good 
- 'impression. So if for no better reason than to 
''gain" valuable experience, the senior should 
 itake. advantage of interviews.
interviewer has a set formula whereby 
"ie. picks his/prospective employe. The one 
I 'Cthmg. he attempts to do is to place himself in 
f^fe?tppsitibn.: of: the. employer he t-upniseirts; 
^p^ili.ybu measure up to the requirements of his 
^b^ssi-: ileis in-: the position of a student who 
^i^/.gotten a:friend a .b 1 ind  date.. He wants 
l^oii^^v.his. Selection; to. be entirely above ap>,rspj*oaeh. an^ accredit .to- his. judgment. 
jM^'interviewers./dont. admire ;a rah,, rah 
L-v^pirit/irC-their future employes. .They, are 1m-TprMsed byvstndent "who ustbueas means bussjU9bs and presents a neat, bu mee like appearir^^Uice-7';;-2!hey, dontbase-their, selection.entirely 
/ jypon grades; tkey 'want a well-rounded man 
t^^om they> think will fit into their organiza
tion- "^Many meh don^t choose their life work. They 
^^^t ^i:Job 'and report- for duty -every 
time the re 
'paycheck/": They  spend- fo^r or 
i in college studying a certain line of: 
 ~'l
work and then take the first position-that 
comes along, regardless of whether, it is in their 
line or not.-.- Manv times if thev would look 
around for themselves they would find a posi
tion which . would justify the time and money 
spent in a. college education and live more 
happy and profitable lives. A job in hand is 
worth four or five prospects only if the prospects are too vague. h
So we advise seniors to sign up for all inter* 
views possible, go in with a clean hand and a 
hopeful spirit, and choose wisely where a 
choice is offered.
Every living creature is supposed to have 
some purpose in nature's plan, but the road 
hog must have been a zoological error.
Dr. Fronk Branen: Worry has reached pro
portions which make it as formidable a foe as 
many of the death-dealing plagues of the past.
Writers Row
HONESTY, THE SINS COMMITTED IN THE  NAME
'Add now, boys and girls, what does the story of George Washington and his cherry tree teach us?" drooled ~ ......
dren in Room 1 at Elementary School.
That's right, Horace. It teaches us always to be honest with one another, doesnt it?"
The-Inmates of Room 1 see-eawed their heads in colorless assent, all of them, that is, except little Horace, whose nod sparkled like a touch of sodium bicarbonate in a tumbler of water. The cherry-tree episode marked the first time In his ' two long- weeks ot school that ho bad been able to answer one of Mlea Sugarpuss's difficult questions adequately, and lb occasion was to have a profound influence on the growth of .his character. Several times, in after years, when the bare feet of his slowly germinating power of observation flrat throbbed from the bruising stones of those traditional guardlanB of honesty, the home, the Bchool, and the church, he recalls the days when he1 was learning to walk mentally; and invariably there confronted him the spectacle of that oddly proportioned ' perambulator, liam Sugarpues, -whose vocal wheels constantly rumbled the reverberant clackety-clack, to be honest with one anotherto be honest with one anotherto be honest with.
The dull phrase droned In his ear on a particularly oppressive night late In .the spring of his sophomore year at college. His sister had only a few minutes before bid her fiance goodnight, and now she was talking with their mother in the adjoining, bedroom. Voice exploded upon'voice, like a long strip of Chinese firecrackers, and the gunpowdery odor of some of their words drifted toward him through the crevices of the doorway. "Plenty of time to marry yetcan't leave us mu soonand how will we be able to manage without you, young lady?*'
discordantly contrapuntal tune, "Can't leave us yetto be honest; we need your helpto be honest; wliat about your duty to your parents to be honest."
Again the phrase recurred to his mind as he sat. with his classmates on the morning of grad-college, shrouded in the black robe' ;bf'hls deceasefrom campus life.
And may .academic freedom ever continue to be the heritage of you young men and women who have for four short years felt the influence, ot Its Ideals, grandiloquently spoke the president) of the college In' his presentation speech. Horace.Irrelevantly, thought of the plump. State endowment of his university,'of its Iron-masked;' flask-beilled board of directors, and of their combined, subtle effect on academic freedom. Once more he wondered.
Not so very many months later, the old refrain
ot long before the symphonic splendor of the
and sonorous Interplay of organ and choir had kindled his blood to a sensuously pagan, though sacrilegious, warmth. Then came the oratorlcaldltlonlng from early childhood, a revelation of the sacred will of God; but through Horace's mind wandered fragments of the-lectures
streets that mid-day with a lighted lantern; in the end he yielded to a less objective form of quest and merely stood languidly on the corner awaiting a street car. Yet' even after he had sighted an approaching.car, had boarded it, and had ridden to his destination, Horace continued to wonder. ,ROSEMARY PIERCE.
Lettera to the Editor
Dear.Editor:The purpose of this Tetter is to protest the action of some Carnegie professors who make a habit of'
! their presence at
Insist upon promptness c nothing of keeping a.class five minutes over time and causing the student to be late for his next class. Can these instructors be so egotlslctal that they
it all unintentional? If the last mentioned reason is. the cause for their failing it seems that they should be able to overlook-the unintentional tardiness ofthe-student;-........ ............................ .....With, the iiope that souie prof. might be made to
phs this- week and ;next wili : be a spirit of cheerful, loud-voiced: fellowehiD. .' Some asinine critics would liken It to the tender fattening of the turkey. they had for Thauksgiving but--I- believe that-most Tech students'And -it a .rcllof.>for a change; to be co>n- radlsh aod smile onthelrdassmateB. Ordinarllv I
not fit for the hails, of such ci realltled lnetlThat is precisely why-most Tech students give me an acute sense of.dtstaste tn m? midriff.They; are mur intentionally concentrated upon being unintentionally rude-.thati theyi forget" that- other people,eilst, , . There is no. better Way to:lay:a four*-. year  foundation -xor. a ll(e of aaiTO<nefl and' spite., when rushing jeasoa fa over, all you hypo- crltes, remember that: Christmas ds near and brothNews Review of Current 
Events the World Over
Chino-japanese War May.Come From Autonomy Move
mentOil Embargo Against Italy Postpoped 
President Busy With tie Budget.
By EDWARD W. PICKARD
November 211 had been set as
the dnte for a meeting of the 
longue ot N8fJ*>ns sanctions committee to consider the Impn&ltlOD of on oil etnbm 
:alnst itsily. yon
PremI and
British AmbNSsndoi George lluesel 
Clerk, after a con
recommended tluii the session be indefinitely post
poned, and this no
tion was rul;en. The
ear]? oJ) snnctJons would seriously n^f 
lltlcal situation, ani 
If lie were Riven 
might bring about 
ot MeThe good
nnenslness of the Pretich and Brit
ish governments. Benito Mussolini 
had bluntly told the world thnt the Imposition of an o)i embargo would 
menn war In Europe, th$ warning 
being given through his nmbassu- dor to France. Vittorio Cerruti.
E
phwhv American diplomats nnd nnvnl-oflicers. selected by Sec
retary of St are Hull, have sailed to 
represent this country' In the coniern-e In I,on their lieud la-Nor
man H. Pnvls. the
Tinrope. who portJc)- 
pnted In the pretlons last year. Act
ing with him will 
be Undersecretary 
of State William Phillips . and Ad- i'av,a
mlrnl Wllllntn H. Stnndley. chief of naval operations. Advisers to the 
deleMon will- he Ray Atherton, 
counselor of th American emhassy 
In London, and E. R. Dootnnn of tho Slate department, who knows 
all about .Inpnneso and oLber Fur 
Eastern n/Tfllrs.
DOWNniGHT war between the Chinese 1 armies of Dictator 
Chiang Kal-sheb and the .lapnnese 
appeared almost eertale ?/hee.the autonomy move
ment In north 'Ghlnai was 'revived In eastern Hopei and Chaliar - prov
inces .' by Tin Jukeng, the administrative commission
er and. friend of 
.Tnpaii. Lea'ders of the rest' of the rr' 
glon were undecided on their course, 
but Japaoese troops began to 
pour In by the trainload. Three thousand of them with full war 
equipment arrived in Tientsin, and the. garrison at Peiping was more 
than doubled.- The Fengtal railway Junction a few miles from Peiping was seized, Colonel Tnkahnshl, mil
itary' attache, asserting- this was necessary because the rolling stock 
was being moved south, threatening the Isolation of the Japanese
In Nanking officials said the national government was determined 
to meet with force any uttcmpt to 
force autonomy on the territory south of Hopei and Chahar prov
inces, nnd the execiitlve: Yuan proclaimed five sweeping, reforms de
signed- to - stop the spread of the 
movement. ', Chlnng whs' hurrying, large bodies of troops to the north
ward, Be also sought to hold the support of the Shantung war lord, 
Han Fu-chu, by entrusting him with the defense of the northern Honan 
and Shantung frontiers, nnd prom
ising him money and supplies, if 
seeded, to stem Invasion. Han Fu- chu of late hns been wooed assiduously ' by the .Tnpone-'e.
BRAZIL was experiencing another 
revolt, In the Dorthero part of 
the country. Latest advice* said the 
rebels had- control of the city of 
Natal aod thnt e hot fight was oo for possession of Pernambuco. The' 
?prising was laid to the Commanlstg and wus believed to be led by 
Luis Carlos Prestes, Communist leader for all'of South America It 
was said he planned-to spread the 
movement ell over Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Chile, !
Several days Inter a revolt broke ont In Rio Janeiro, the capital, des
pite extraordinary precautions. The principal participants there were 
the aviation force. They seized the 
avlntlon field but government troops 
recuptured It and It was announced tills outbreak hnd been suppressed.
Finally the Brazilian government 
announced timt the revolt in the North ulflo had been crushed and 
that 133 persons had been killed In the four days of fighting.
PAN-AMERrCAW Airways opened 
a new chapter In the story of 
aviation when Its huge China Copper carried the Grst consignment 
of air mall from 
Ainmeda, Cniif., to Manila, with stops 
at Honolulu, Midway Islnnds, Wake Island,, and Guam. 
Capt. Edwin C. Muslch, veteran chief pilot of the company, was in com
mand of the craft 
nnd was aided by 
a crew of six men. Fourteen passen
gers started on the flight and twelve were dropped off 
to relieve the stniTs at Midway sod Wake. The 1,700 miles between 
Guam and Manila had not been 
flown heretofore.After one or two more flights to 
Manila the clipper will continue to 
China and operate on through schedules thereafter.
The Philippine Clipper, second, of Pan-American Airways trans-Paclfio air fleet, arrived at Alameda 
from the Atlantic coast and her crew began preparations for a flight to Manila beginning Decem
ber 6. The plane flew 500 miles 
from San Diego In three hoars SO
Dept. Of Music 
Offers Recitals
;Phonograph recitals will be offered. by the Department of Music. Wednesdsy.at 22:30, Friday
by Arthur Schnabel, and Tchaikovsky's Overture, Romeo and Juliet, recorded by the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra, will be given.. Selections from Wagner's opera. "EHe Walkure will be offered on Frllday, Mondays program will be made up of compositions of Jonathan Bach.Dr. Ross Is Misquoted - And WWSW Forgotten
 It has been brought to the a tfoh of.the Tartan that an omission waa made in the last Issue published November 25../.In an article by. Dr. Samuel Ross the'statement was printed, Judge
sentence should have' read Judge Mahoney is not only a believer In God and a .Sunday Christian.Station WWSW was not given credit for Its broadcast of the Centennial Exercises. The Tartan mentioned that KDICA would broadcast. Station KDKA. carried only part 'of the exercises. WWSW broadcast the entire speech of Dr. ^r^eman. _
HANGOVER
GOBBLER HUNTING IN NEW York weat Weinberg and Reed the holidays . . . seems everyplace they went they, got the bird
Castle was their travelling . . . tsk, tsk . . . button, button, whos got the button'
INSIDE INFORMATION Boy ain't we the sleuths . . . enables us to prodlct that John G. Lawrence, scholar, crooner, and beau brurn- mel deiux will probably buy a 9led . . Jean, the missus, comes all the way from Mars to attend the Thistle Hall dances ... why the sled . . . well, its It?
A PRINTERA MAGGIE' Murph an architect and a dramat wer cutting capers at the I*ongu< Farmers on Friday nite . . . hi-di- di-dl and gosh almighty they ended up parked in a ditchheaved and heaved but Lizzie was stubborn . . . some say they finally did get home.
PRE-PITT DANCE . . . quite an extravaganza . . . yowsah . . . not many except the band at the pep rally ... if you haven't heard . . . Sam Bistline carried away the bacon . . . 1. e. a 10 pound turkey . . - turkey dinners
Dozer lad can croon announcements into the microphone . . . oh say Mr. Winchel.
OUR HOMESPUN PHILOSOPHY comes to the surface and we cant help editorializing . . .
War Guns Slopped I 
Only Temporarily
ied Japanese milit
1 the solution. But ere they find civil war and disor- er. semi-independent tuchuns and eir armies, famines, floods, and eak and disordered transporta- on. The next step Is obvious mtiously to break -olT morsels of hina under the guise of local separatist movements, organize tes morsels- and make their gov- nmeht and credit safe for- Japan- :e goods. Then as Internationa) politics and Japanese strength permit, work further and further into
hall return to the home fold; ' With the Polish Cor-, rldor apparently recognized by- a year agreement with Poland.the Saar is, with a t Alsace-Lorraine, IHItler -turns from his troubled eastern and western boundaries to Austria at the south and -proud empire overseas.- Several millions of unemployed, foreign exchange running heavily against him, and lack of raw tna- home are causing bin Nazi regime to bend an ear to the siren song of imperialism.
number of spectacular colonial expositions" in various German cities. Charts and pictures in vivid colors compare the wealth, population, and possessions of th<*
nit Germanys moral and economic ight to its erstwhile colonies. Dla- jrams show millions of Germans out of work while her former colonies are depicted as almost .empty and begclngind laboi theisstv<aide
HOLD YOtJR HATS PLEBES her? you go again . . . But this time you are on top . . . and those same boys who made you clean up the senior fence, etc. . . . are going to take you home for dinner ... speak to you in the frlendifest manner . . , while some may even go 60 far as to do your home work for you . . . and just a bit or friendly advice . . . take everything you hear about the other houses seriously and yet, with a grain of salt . . . investigate statements and get the other fellows side of it . . . don't be afraid to ask to see th financial records . . there Is no reasonwhy you should pay for the new furniture . . . derive your Judgments and opinions from the boys in the .chapter now aod not from those who used to be . . dontbe influenced by the female element . . . your not going to live
what you will be able to do for It . . . always, remember ... in two weeks you will be making the first major decision of your life . . . do it after careful study and investigation ... so thatrry for making Buch a . and so much for that.
positions are being held may be heard the steady tramp, tramp of drilling menpreparing to change those charts.
Whar is the answer? If the writer knew he might be silting soxneMUSICALLY. IGNORANT. SAV TIBBETT
Music is not as important?^, ture as It should be 1; our educa tlonal system, said Lawrence T>L bett In an interview at Syracnse university. Just as Shakespeare 1m taught In our schools to give an aura of culture, so should music be taught The knowledge of good music in this . country is greatly lacking. European students are far 
Impressed by the importance 
..*-* the students
WOMEN HAVE NO SENSE
United States published by a womens college.
ELECTIONS REFORM ON TRIAL 
Outstanding students at the University of Indiana, resenting the political  profiteering typical ot campus elections, have devised a new merit system for the election of senior class officers and commit, tee members. Under this system, no student may hold office without a satisfactory scholastic record, nnd without an outstanding record In service to the university through extra-curricular activities. Like- wise, there will be no agitated feminist movements, for two specified senior ofllces -will automatically go in, and the other two to wo- the committee positions also being divided.
NO MORE OVER-DUE BOOKS Regulations prohibiting faculty members from keeping library
HOME FOR THE 
CHRISTMAS 
HOLIDAY?
QUICKLY and ECONOMICALLY
Dont spoil tbe thrill of getting- bome agais-by worrying 
about the shipment of your baggage.' Solve the problem by 
leaving everything to Railway Express. We will call for 
your trunks, baggage and persona! briongiegs r-.-r* send 
them home on &at passenger trains through to destination. 
You can take yourtrain borne with peace of mindknowing 
that your baggage, win be there quickly and safely. Rnilway , 
Express service is a decided economy in expense, too.
After vacation, send your baggage back the same way. 
We give a receipt on pick-up and take a receipt on de
livery. .. double proof of swift, sure handling.
For .service or information merely call or telephono 
926 Penn Avenue ATIantlc 3600.
Depot Office: 26th Street and Liberty Avenue 
ATIantlc 3600 Pittsburgh, Pa.
ldtpQdB
,Sghaa
AGENCY, INC.
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
TUNE m ON THE RAILWAY EXPSESS NEWS PA0AOE
 WDSU  WPAAP
SENSATIONAL YOO-MUST-BE-PLEASED 
OFFER WINS CAMPUS PIPE SMOKERS
READ THESE DETAILS.ACT NOW!
OUR OfFEK TO PIS,B SMO!KRS:"Smo^c_iO irtgran'f pipeiis ofPrice 'Albert. If you don't find it the aullowest tastiest pipe tobacco you ever 
smoked, return the tin with the rest of the tobacco in it, and wa will refund ' 
full purehoso price, plus postage.
(Signed). R. J. Reynolds' Tobacco Co., .Winston-Salem, N. C.
Heres the way we look at thesmoking-tobacco question: Any
body can say, 41 My brand is best 
please try my kind.*Oar way:is dlffeteat:'Wei'*say: 
Try Prince Albert We believe 
youll like it. But, if you're nob 
delighted, we make good on yonr 
purchase. And eo, on the fair
1 your
Hits the Taste of College Men!
cause we know that Prince Albert' 
is what'college men are looking for 
in a mild pipe tobacco. They try 
It They, like it. That's the story 
ot Prince AJbert in a nutshell, 
Prince Albert is packed right
" iatirt. Your tobacco keeps in^ri 
condition. And there are 2 ounce3 
in the big red Prince Albert tin.
I pipefuls of swell tobac* 
co a every two-ounce
' tin of Prince Altert
OL.L3O0yN31CyAReyE.
,\. > ' ^

---------------------------------------------------

SU-1 "
TARTA N
W\SAUCE
?
By Scotty CharlesIEU
THE "OUT OF NOWHERE" CARNEGIE MYSTERY TEAM v.,.. 
linued Us baffling play last Thureday. With practically no legerdemain 
I very little prestlgltltatlon they beak down those nasty Westerners 
nd up In a scoreless hfraL
THE DEFENSIVE WORK OF BOTH SQUADS was so good. that 
the; haye decided to sit back and wait for. an offer from .Haile Sellasie. 
Seldom has this city seen two elevens stopped so completely. Pitt 
I a good offense and a fair defense; Tech had a swell defense end 
offense. The condition of the Carnegie offense has been In this 
fiege for so long that the players get claustrophobia when packed to
gether for an offensive drive.
THIS PITT SQUAD WAS THE hardest charging crew we have 
i all season. They started fast and low and throughout the first 
' the Carnegie boys were still double clutching Into second when 
Pitt boys were under full steam. Ah, but In the second semester 
-the Skibos started tike a winged rodent from Purgatory, and beat the 
a on the gun every time.
THE MOST POPULAR GAG OF THE DAY' occurred when the 
Scots attempted and missed the third field goal. At this juncture 273 
assorted wits, cards and drunks arose .-from their seats and yelled; 
"Lets go, this Is here we come in.
OUR IDEA OP A FOOTBALL PLAYER of the primus aqua Is this 
lor Henrlon. They havo him doing everything on the Carnegie 
4quad from kicking offcat the beginning to raking the field after they 
ne. Next year they are also going to let him handle the A. A.e 
writing. Nestor can kick, place kick, block, tackle, bo all over 
Id at onee, run and pass. So far this season he has done all 
-these things with Insufficient recognition. Admittedly the best player 
the Plaid sguad, It Is generally conceded that he was the best foottall player in the Stadium last Thursday.
WITH ALL AMERICAN SEASON NOW PENDING We will prob
ably not hear of Henriun again until next year although it Is common 
jossip that bo is one of the best tackles for miles around. He rated 
the third team in All-Eastern selections and we addwhat of it? 
Dartmouth, beaten twice in a cream-putf schedule, entered four men on 
tbe first two teams of this picking. We would lay our cold cash on 
tbe marker that Brother Henrlon, playing on a well-publicized club 
that had won over 80 per cent of games played, would be directly 'In 
Hoe lor a nice free blanket from tbe Hearst Syndicate.
CONCERNING THIS SCHEDULE BUSINESS, there are multitudes 
of suggestions as to changes. One faction claims It 16 better to make a 
good showing against fine teams than an undefeated finish against a 
gang of goofers. Another avers that for the glory of Carnegie and In
creasing gate receipts, the Plaid should schedule nice color teams like 
Penn, Cornell, Amherst and Rutgers where victories would be more 
likely and publicity on the up beat.
"It Is better," continues the sage, to beat a bunch of poor teams 
! rt!cs shssrtag sections liar io bounce up sgalnst a flock of brulawho play tough football but are unheard of as such.
Very good, Abercrombie, Ill tell Jtlm when he comes In. 
ANOTHER- PCUNT -THAT LEAVES znuaehing 4fce- molars is. 
tbe probable awarding'' o. the city, football crown to Duquesne., They 
knocked off the. Tartans on a bad day for the Plaid on which th Scots 
should bare wonbut didnt. We tied the Panthers on what was, perof their off days. The fact that Tech on Its off days is much 
n moBt teams on off days and general consensus has it that 
the Pills could ,do the Grant and Richmond act with the Hllltoppars. 
Oh, Tjes, we iust happened to rememberthey pay. off oo final 
es and not on ground gained. Oh, well, were not In last place, 
anywayJust tied for It.
AMONG OTHER THINGS, the aboriginals of thle Sector setdom 
consider the fact that the Tartans are playing what is far and away 
-the toughest schedule In the city. Match it Up against Pitt's or Duquesnes and see what you get. If you get anything let us know be
cause we havent as yet. The point remains that there are very few 
/teams In the country that couldplay our schedule and make a perfect 
showing.
Remember me, Abercrombie? It's juat Ole Man. Sunshine.
AT WHAT WAS PROBABLY CONSIDERED to be a highly strate
gic point in the fray, Jock Sutherland Jumped up and ordered a bunch 
I subs into the game to strike terror into the hearts of the Plaid pie* 
skinners. As the boys began to file out onto the field In spectacular 
fashion a clown from the crowd leaped to his feet and yelled:
Hey, Jock, there are. only sevenput in another and we'll bave 
two tables.
Facts of the Fray
According to the statistics, Car
negie gained 80 yards in 29 plays 
while Pitt, gained 183 yards in 68 
P^ys. R little el/de rule work re
peats that the Tartans thus aver
aged 2.76 yards per play to the 
Panthers 2.69 yards per play proyIne lliat the. Skibos fall further 
*han thfcir opponents by nearly an Inch. ,.
There were, in the course of. the afternoon, nineteen forward passes thrown without one bains completed nalcsa you count the one conceded |o Carnegie on interference by Micheloson. Only one lateral pass 
Carnegie
- wmv started}|>e second half played right on trough without i substitution or a time out for injuries.P*ll, Henrlon, Trbovich, Spisak, and Napotnilc played the entire route while Rosenthal, Matelan Mid..Moore played all but a few Se?or|ds ot the fracas.rhis was the first tie game iu  22 same aeries.Except for the Fordham game of IMS year, it is the first time the panthers have. failed to register l**ce the Ohio. State game of aev* erai seasons back.Again excepting the Fordham
Hoj^tftcea- Faithful Promises
FORBES
CLEANING AND 
TAILORING CO.
MAyflower 9728 
Corner Forbes and Cralp _ 
77 1)U .vs Blmt
game, it is the first time that 1
Of 1928. We are, it should be mentioned. east of Pitt by a good two blocks. Peculiar people, these Westeners.
A student at New York university has found a new way to crib, claiming that notes written on watch crystals.in grapefruit Juice become Invisible when breathed
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY,, DECEMBER 3. IMS,
Pitt Game DateChanged By A. A.
It has been officially'
will be the last ot the series of Pitt - Carnegie football games on Thanksgiving. After this date the game will be played on the last Saturday in October.
The Athletic Association of
many factors being Involved, Among them are the facts that of the students go home
MediocrePlaid 
Grid Team Has 
Spotty Record
Tartans Perform Well 
Against Holy Cross, 
Purdue and Pitt
Thursdays game at the Pitt 
Stadium rang down the curtain on 
what was only a mediocre season 
for tbe Skibo school. Facing one 
of the toughest schedules of any 
team in the country, the Tartans ended up with two wins, one tie and five losses. One redeeming feature of the campaign lies In the
ery adept in ball handling, though without a football reputation. Tbe green Tartans experienced a difficult time for three ouarter9 and then found itself to pull nhedd to a 6-3 victory.Notre Dame - has admittedly, one of the best teams In the country and they were hitting thoir
foqtball throughout the first half nnd went in leading 3-0. However, in the final frames the South Benders commenced their comeback for which they are famous arid ended up a 14-3 victory over the tired and iniured Tartans.The less said about the N. Y-. XT gnnie the better. Tbe team h nlnyed good football' generally until
ises and had the Techs at 19-0 before they realized what ha/i happened. 'The Tartans.- settled.
this lead and the fray ended 26-6 with little cheering.The Temple squad was at Its best for this game though they lumped badly later in the season.. Tha contest _was..a dull affair, with
.. by scoring an' unset that shook the football world. The down-and-out Carnegie sn.uad play: ed fine ball and outplayed th Boilermakers throughout to win 7- 0 in a deserved triumph.Another letdown followed ' this and an inferior Duquesne squad that was well rested, caught the bftttered Tartans on an off-day to win 7-0 though they were complete^ lv outgained by the Scots in-this fracas. It is generally conceded ' that the Holy Cross outfit was the biggest and fastest squad met all year. Against this tough bunch the Carnegie team played good ball but were unable to get back a touchdown scored by the Crusaders in the first few seconds of play and the game ended 7-4). .  -
For a Real Delicious 
Home-Cooked Meal
EAT AT
Mary s Restaurant
327 South Craig Street
Near Forbes Street 
Try Our Spccial 25c Luncheon 
EAT WHERE YOUR FRIENDS MEET
PeopiesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Oakland Branch
Forbet and Meyran
THE OAKLAND 
BANK"
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Hard Fighting Skibos 
Tie Pitt in Defensive 
Contest At Stadium
Rugged Defensive Flay 
Ends in Deadlock 
As Lines Star
SPISARS PUNTING 
HOLDS BACK FOE
Field Goal Attempts Fall 
Short in . Only Scoring 
Threats of Game
(Continued From Page Qne.) r 
tricks and .try to score on danger; 
ous, spectacular play^. There were 
no lateral passes-in the entire con
test, a novel feature in a season 
which has seen so 'nuich of this 
type of piety.
The Carnegie scoring attempts resulted from capitalization of breaks In Panther territory. Intercepted passes and recovered fumbles gave the Sldbos the ball __ several occasions deep In Blue and Gold territory. Here the defense stiffened and the Tartans were able to gain effectively. At three different times, they attempted field goals, all of whilch fell short of their mark.
The play of the day. being of
display their ability to an advant- In All sectors of the contest, Nestor, (Henrlon, stellar Carnegie tackle, Qda the outstanding performer of the day and added to the glory previously accorded him this season, Both teams played clean, hard football and individual stars difficult to pick. Shedloaky was the biggest ground gainer of the.
ienl for the Plaid.The biggest thrill for the Tartan supporters came In the second quar:
intercepted Greenec
ped on a shoe string tackle by Klis- key. For an instant It appeared as though he would break into the clear, but. taking the pass on a dead runj.it was impossible for him to reverse bis field on the slippery
Another of the blghpolnts of the . thf* flse/psstias -oF'Chaf? fey- Spls&k, who . played his.'final vame under the Plaid and put In a fine exhibition. In the1 first half/
some ineffectual boots were gotten off but a couple of long kicks In the second half brought' the erage up to 42 yards for the whole game. Jock Sutherland paid personal tribute to SplBak in Baying that he waa the best kicker e the Stadium all season.
The ground'ia the Stadium-was treacherous, slowing up the rabbit backs of both teams and cutting off tbe passing attack of both teams. The only pass completed all afternoon was one for Carnegie when Interference with the receiver was called. The Curnegle team exhibited ereat staminn in standing up under the Panther attack. In tbe course ot the game Pit* used two whole teams -while the Scots used only, seventeen men all afternoon, . _ 'of these seeing only  about three minutes of action. Of the., eight seniors on the Carnegie squad, only five saw action in Ihls, their final gome.
This gnme is tbe next to the last gnme to b played between Pitt and Carnegie on Thanksgiving dny.
ber and will be the Homecoming esma for the- Carnegie alumni. This change in scheduled should boos the Skibo chances considerable- as Pitt improves as the season moves ,uo. At this time, the Tar- nns should be hltitlng their stride ind the Skibo supporters may be :lven an opportunity to see another ipset scored If. the teams are of the some cpllbre as those thnt per* formed in the Stadium last Tbursine off with a record of two wins, a tie and five losses. The Panthers have one game yet to playSouthless deadlocks.
SPECIAL COURSE OFFERED
pointftent Bureau  to seniors who ish to become editorial assistants authors or work in- publishing houses. The course covers a study of the preparation of the book manuscript to- binding, and practice is given in proof-reading
of Oregon, a student travels alone 1,700. miles from Sitka, Alaska, In ' sixteen-foot dory.,
D atte s*f osrR D
Jock Sutherland, Pitts mentor, 
who claimed he would keep tho 
score down. The smile has proba.
We Present McSkibos 
First Primer Revised
Who Is this man?
That's old Doc Sutherland.
Ole Doo Sutherland of Pittsburgh?
The same.
Nice looking chap. ,
Yes, Isn't he?
Why Is the Doctor smiling?
That picture was taken before 
Thursdays game.
Does Mr. Sutherland still smile?
We doubt It.
Why doesn't Mr. Sutherland smile?Mr. Sutherland 16'slightly sad. Why is Mr. Sutherland sad.He promised to keep the score down against Carnegie.)id Mr. Sutherland keep the score down against Carnegie?ictly.
. Carnegie boys?Mr. Sutherland probably ', thinks
Tch BarberShop
Craig and Forbes 
Oakland
Womens AthleticsBy Margie Green
Whos allrlght? Mr. Greer's allright, tor hes a lolly good'fellow. 
Treating the RldUig Club to a 
breakfast ride last Saturday morn
ing may be just another advertising stunt, to you cynics, but whatever it is, all l have to say is /'More power to hlni for putting It across. His party of eight 'set out on their three hour ride at 9:30 A; M., 'covered the trails through Scheclcy Park, auu eventually migrated toward Frick Park. By the time everyone was willing -to call
feast had to be called lunoh rather
ulnrlty slowly, but surely. The original membership consisted of three ardent followers, Including Eleanor Coon, our esteemed n ger. Tbe club bns tho distinction ot being the only really elite group In W. dr A., for (of course yo known) new members are admitted only by invitation. This restriction seems perfectly fair and square considering the (act thnt advanced dnoclug is the main objective. However, if you have a yen for dancing, do not bo discouraged by this limitation. Naturally, tho dancing classes in the regular gym work provide the only opportunity for selection. Your first move, then, ehould.be consultation with Miss Kanrlch for the purposo of entering one of her gym olasses. Only
THI9 AD and 21o Will Admit 
Student to Any 32o Matinee of
Warsdcriog1
THE MAN 
WHO COULD 
NOT DIEl  NO W
MARTZ UN ES 
Express Bus Service
Cleveland 
South Bend
' SChenU? S0B2
last week, eight of her pupils were Invited to join the dub, and have already begun practice on one jot. the. main essentials', of interpretive. dancing... technique. .The 
creative work will, fallow in due time.
What happened to the 67 (adv. for Heinz) people who signed up for bowling? Surely such obvious enthusiasm could not have waned before even a slnalo'ti-v-nut, vofrnn. 
estimate of.15 bowlers for the last' two weeks would be grosB esagger- atlori, - Rose has suggested two possible clues, mid-semester exam* inations and Thanksgiving celebra?
portunlty for a' general' renewal of Interest. Why not* let'yourself in for a hobby that 1m sure to give, you renl pleasure' both In learning
(you nil know how expectly the men-folk can bowl) are most obliging about giving pointors In tech- nlque, all tree for just the asking. How is your aim today?
Choose your bank 
as you would choose 
afriend
9'
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
HERE'S WHYCAMEL'S MILDNESS 
APPEALS TO OUT-OF-DOORS PEOPLE
lYi
i^liPiP_______________________________;

---------------------------------------------------

Sequel To 4-And Sudden Death
 .01X08*8 NOTE:l'article, written specltl
i Reeder's Digft
again. I grope my way sleepily to it Hello . . . yes, I understand ... a wreck on tbe highway two miles east . . . Well be right
bloodv, grotesque, twisted thing under the pale light of the moon. Another lieB groaning and mumbling, "My back is broken. I think. We lift him as gently as possible to the ambulance cot and hurry to the hospital. He dies two hours ;iater calling for "Edith." How did it happen? The report . is they were trying to pa6S a car against a too close oncoming car. What does it matter! We go back for the dead body, and in the op- . rating room, under the strong light, we find that we have a job onhand trying to embalm this poor thing to put it back together as best we can in an attempt to re/ . lieve the terrible heartache of those ones'who will hasten to see him. What a mess! Ragged bones . sticking out throueb torn coat sleeves, head crushed to a pulp. Can we make it look like a human being and resemble the fine, strong , young -man that it was only an hour ago? It Is just our job and were getting usedto it.Does it make us gun-shy of this fast driving? Well, we wish oil speeders could spend a night with- as, occasionally, in the operating rooms of the mortuary.Old BarleycornThree little kiddles, poor little tykes, the oldest, only eeven. They hardly know what it Is all about. This time it is a young mother returning home, with her husband and children, from a visit. Kiddies are playing in tbe back Beat of the car. Bang! Crash.-. A sickening twisting and tearing and it Is all
.   Just two drunks In an old coming over the top of tbe hill the wrong side of the road, bnt
_ ride
face on this thangled body 'which has been the loving mother of these three small,helpleas children,
Irtctwe of this mother, .and by lone . hours of patching and filling those mutilated features and showing the body under indirect light, we keep from the loved ones the horrid picture of this mutilation. The Lonely Pedestrli - *  * 1__________.... . the 'door, torn completely from the socket at the elbow. The mangled body lay doubled' up. in the ditch 'nearby.V' Just an old man walking along in the dark on the wrong side of ' the .road, the car coming over, the .brow of the hill, head-lighta shoot- - ing up. . Not a chance of escaping 
1L. Endurance vs. Death . just three happy boys on their way across the country to Detroit;- Constant, driving, day: and night,. with a-change at the ..wheel every  four hours: but endurance .lost,
Fraternity Dance 
Plans Announced
Phi Nu, social fraternity, will
' ball;' Final arrangements : completed with the signing-of-Pep ' Houck's orchestra as a., feature. Thie.band, which has appeared but
".on!the campus, Is-weU.Jpaown. . for its radio and night club work.
' '^ 'Attendance at this function is not '.confined to members. The enti: r^B.tudent. body and their friends, are
ceived that a permanent.place; lies "been ^reserved  on the social' calen- . af 'for such events.-. Better >muslc, ti mbre pleasing decorations.and other 'improvements . have been affected s:.tqi'make. this. a. big event of the ...year...:-.
 AdmIs8lon_wlll he one dollar
fcvpm members of. the fraternity, ^>Bither-'at > the Council office or . at .hall the night of the dance,
[lilberty Engraving Company]]7 ' pht BNOPAVBM ^
'half-tones etchings 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES.1
PHOTOGRAPHY;
I COLOR,NEWS and COMMERCIAL
I -------ART'r FOR ALL ILLUSTRATIVE 
PURPOSES 
"wWtNtOfTia
 picked them up on the side
ed. Not an easy thing to telephone the poor father out on the coast and inform him that the body of
plastic art and dermasurgerythe body to almost lifelike appearance, but we canno't bring back that youthful smile or happy
Dangerous Corners a natives all knew that was a mean corner, properly marked with a turn sign, but such a sharp turn. To take it at more than 20 miles was unsafe. He must have been going 50 at least. No one saw It happen. They found him with the car overturned, the sharp edge of tbe running board, where itJoins the rear fender, resting hiB head. Why do they always have their beads smashed up so I wonder if this isn't the hope of
an auto accident call: I hope the bead is all right. They usually
life. And his poor y We put her to bed when she rives and try to make her comfortable until we can finish our work, so she will never know what he looked like when we found hi:A babe to come soon will ne know a father accept by the tales whichThe lunch for school was in the back seat, the case of eggs for tbe
A. foggy morning, a narrow bridge. Tbe sharp, Bplintered end of the bridge rail drove through the windshield and tore away on< side of her faco.Poor little brother, who had beei driving, >ow heart-broken and sor rowful. it was hard to see, and
Highway Department had fulfilled
around and over, twisted hot iron, that fetid smell of burning flesh and a few bones to tell the. tale.How "Would you prepare these mains for burial? Well, how would
this small town of not quite 3,000. Add what befalls here to .the tragic toll In metropolitan cities and tl countless towns larger than om and we ha-ve a very ' faint idea <
- Over 33,000 killed this way last year: Will it be more next 3 And will you be one. of that her? .Why wont yon? .
(Eangte piatii
 Editorial Board c
1 stadcnts
News Editi CORNELIUS A. BLOCHINGER 
.. Assodate Editors Mildred Carson Edmund Drensen " William Weasely  
StaffR. A. Lahr O. McCormack -W. J. Noigot E.E. McDonald
J. S. Geyser A. C.Orimin W. A. Vensel
Campus 
Beauty Shoppe
BEAUTY CULTURE IN ALL ITS BRANCHES [ Marcel, Shampoo. Finger Wave, . Henna Rinse,Manicure and Hot Oil | Guaranteed Permanent Waving.
Campus BarberShop
j SERVICE and SATISFACTION 5176 Woodlawn Avenue . MAyflower 3921
C.S.EDMAN
PRINTERHAzl 01936470 Monitor Street.
-LARGEST SELECTION OF PORTABLE _AND 
STANDARDIZEDTYPEWRITERS S14.95 TO (75.00
Liberal Term* Free Trial
' RENT A' TYPEWRITER '
Pint Three Months Rental Applies to Purchase Price.
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
M4 LIBERTY AVENXJE MeCloy Building 
Telephone AT|ant)c Biap^^^Batabllalied over twanty.years
NIGHT UGHTS
class, and liuth Henshaw were larried on Thanksgiving day Mr. Cupid further reports that .Mr. '"oodfellows English class. Is the :eneL.of another budding romanc . "This coiuiriii mut'he doing: tmegoddafter'.all! '
Bill Vensel. rattled off one of his iBt lokes at tbe Phi Nu businesi meeting last wk and no on* cracked a smile .. . . The fend between H. Stone and G. Scholtz has almost reached the brick throwing stage . . . Dave Jones makes home-made elevator keys like an expert, and he's never bad a 1eS' son In his life . . . John Page wrote his name on his slicker in graphic ink and bad to wait three weeks till It dried!
Since Ted La Rosa instituted the custom of relaxing on the drawing tables while waiting for a crlt, the draughting room looks more like a harem than an architects retreat . Ru6s Lahr tried a new method of shaking fizzes the other day and accidentally sprayed the whole works on the kitchen walls . . . With yars and yars of engineering experience behind - him. Eddie Miller couldnt gel a dance poster up on a bulletin board without a thumb tack.
A1 Haskins is boardln with  deacon now and getting saintlier by the minute . . . Dave Davis and his gang took seven cowbells with them to the Pitt-Tech gami . . . Walt Noigot claims he has too many classes to get into scrapes this year . . . Ellen Sum- ney walked off with tbe "rasp- berries at her Arts class the other night
Mike Keliener had to put dusl under his. eyes to keep out the glare of his bright.ties . . . Why does Sally Ashdale invariably miss her Wednesday after-class date . . . Johnny Schurko contends he goes to his girl-friend's house to get his typing done . . . Overheard in tbe halls: Dont dare to come to the party blotto^I dont mind dragging yon out, but I draw the line at dragging you in!
John Schurko Elected Vice 
President Of Arts College
Officer Has Served As 
Editor of Handbook 
And Thistle
John Schurko has been selected
 serve as vice president of the 
night College of Fine Arts during 
the current year. During tbe past 
year, Mr. Schurko, who is reg
istered In the Architectural de 
partment, served as treasurer of 
his college. In view of bis record 
while in Council, he has been hon*
John, as he is known to most ! us, has taken an active interest in the various Night school publications.' During theyear 1933*34.ras a member of the staff of the night section of the Thistle and
tributed to the night students the time of registration; The is formation contained therein must be compiled during the summet months. Working by himself, John
be seen by tbe Handbook which he produced.
As to his personal characteristics, John is a typical college studeo and wears the usual large bow 1: bis necktie. As yet, he. has nc acquired the smoking hahit .but he is very fond of dancing and always manages to attend the social functions of tbe Nlgbt school. John Is quite a tennis enthusiast and when not working on the Handbook, he spent many of th Ings playing tenniB at South Park. At the present , time, he is employDuring his matriculation at CarARTS OFFICER
vice president of the night College 
i 'Fin Arts.
sociated with the many I school activities and as a reward for his efforts he haB been awarded three Insignia keys. Because of his outstanding character and fine scholastic record, be was called tho ranks of both Phi Nu and Nu Sigma Alpha fraternities, of which fraternities he. is now a member. Although ihiB Is only his' second year on Night student council, John has attained an enviable record.
BLANKET IS LOST
Carnegie Day 
Ceremonies 
Laud Founder
Main Address Delivered 
By Dr. D. Freeman, 
Pulitzer W inner
Carnegie Day, the centenary 
celebration of the birth of Andrew 
Carnegie drew students, faculty 
members, alumni and people from 
all walks of life to tbe Carnegie 
Music hall to do honor to the found
er of Carnegie Tech, one of the 
greatest philanthropists and bene
factors of this age.
*Led by the Kiltie band and the bag-plpers, the students and faculty made a procession from the Institute to the Music hall. Special memorial recognition buttons and illustrated pTogramB containing list of the days functions were d tributed.
Dr. Douglas S. Freeman, newspaperman and. Pulitzer prize wli in biography, by virtue of his Robert E. Lee, rendered the principal address, which he named The Stewardship of Wealth. Spending of the taxpayers money was criticized in view of the tren ous advances in tbe national debt and high costs of federal operagovernmental pressure made It Impossible to see more'wealthy people lend their success toward phllthe direction of Mr. J. V. O'Brien played the Overture to -Buryi the, by Weber. This. ended t portion of the program which radio
Poster Contest Is 
Open to Students
Treasury Department Will 
Award Caeh for Design
Of interest*to tbe stodentB reg
istered in the night College of Fine 
Arts.is the poster contest being 
sponsored by the Treasury 'depaVtment of the United Stales govern- ment. The purpose of the competition is to secure a booklet desigu which will encourage tho purchase of United States Savings bonds.
Subject matter in general may bo regarded as any pictorial idea calThe Treasury department desires first and last an imaginative, lucid, telling design calculated
Bonds  which may be obtained at any post office in the United States, free of charge. A copy of the mphet may be seen on the bulle
One- thousand dollars will be awarded in prizes. $500.as the first prize,- and the. - other $600 to be
Division, section of Painting and Sculpture, Washington, D. C., not later than 4:30 P. M-, December 17, 1935.
Phi Nu Fraternity J 
Elects Officers
--.Phi Nu,- ..night social fraternity, held its' semi-annual business meeting at the Carnegie Inn on Saturday, November 23. After a very delicious dinner had been served, E.H. MacDermott, W. A. Vensel and A. M. Cox delivered short address- es. These talks by fraternity members marked the revival of an old custom and those in attendance en- thuhiastically endorsed - the discourses as interesting and educational
9Tis Said
wlrk^^P^.18 ^ 
THAT the boys from tho Drama department spend their
THAT the president of the Night student councllwae mtKtl ought after during the paBt
a Rogue's gallery section.THAT we hopethat you were all able to walk after that Thanksgiving dinner.
THAT a couple of telephone artists pulled a fast one on the
dance.'
THAT we have written enough on the parking situation 1and our next tor'- ..........be the weather.THAT Dad Ma 
Ised to write a letter to Santa I
THAT., the. Instructor In Ele> I trlcal engineering asked 6leepy f
:oplc will probably!
THAT there were quite a number o 1 Bottle babies at the football game last Thursday.
girl from Greensburg. Maybe Herb Stone will give him a lift now and then.THAT If you dont watch . out,.- Walter WlncheN will, get
the dirt Is to dig for It,THAT If you don't like this column, what are you reading It
- - -y-- - - .it,-------j.--- .... * 
"Mi " * ' - -     . fl.Ijt- if t4t'
# * 'f
jjV'
. fr y*--  ^
** H c *
Ici
gm , . .%.
Th e proof of the cigarette 
is in the smoking... and 
it always will he
Smokersboth men and women 
want a cigarette to be mildyet not flat 
or insipid.. At the same time they want 
a cigarette that gives them tastetaste 
they can enjoy.
__ _ Chesterfields are outstanding for-mild
nessoutstanding for better taste. You 
find .that out by smoking them.
Oust tty - Chetjlrfelds are what they say they
:__. i
are
G IMS, toon * Mm* Toata C
