General Assembly 
Carnegie Music Hall 
11:30 Today 
Samuel Lionel Rothafel 
Speaker
Hobsons Choice 
Will Be Presented By 
Drama Department 
From February 25 
to March 3.
VOL. XXVI, No. 19.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 932.
FRATS SECURE 
HARLEM BAND 
FOR FORMAL
Fletcher Hendersons Fa
mous Colored Orchestra 
Booked
DATE SET FOR MARCH 4
Hotel Schenley Selected 
By Committees; Price 
Reduced to $4
Fletchcr Henderson and his fa
mous colored band has been se
lected to play at the Interfraternity Formal which will be held on 
March 4 in the ballroom of the 
Schenley Hotel between the hours 
of 9 and 2. Mr. Hendersons or
chestra, which is coming to Pitts
burgh direct from the Fulton The
ater in New York, where it will 
have completed a long and suc
cessful run, is one of the most 
successful Negro bands in the 
country. Having reorganized his for inerly hot band to keep in tune 
with the times, Mr. Henderson i 
now endeavoring to please with 
the slow, smooth type of selec
tions.
Fletchcr Henderson started his 
orchestra in Pittsburgh and it was 
his brilliant success in this city 
which finally led him to national 
fame. The place at which he 
achieved a great amount of renown 
was Connies Inn in Harlem, New 
York, i It was here that lie bc came Jcnown as one of the "hot 
type ,of colored bands, but since 
then /his dinner music at the Hotel 
Grc^stonc in Cincinnati, his en
gagement at the Willows in Pitts
burgh, and his stage show at the 
Fulton Theater have shown his 
band to he a greatly changed, one. 
flic ^as only by early work oil the 
part of the committee in charge 
that this very individual band was 
signed.
Tickets for the dance, which arc 
only $4, representing a saving of 
$1 over last years price, may be 
obtained at any fraternity house 
beginning this week. The proximi
ty of the Schenley Hotel repre
sents another part of the economi
cal policy of the committee.
Tau Beta Pi To 
Meet Thursday
Plans for a forum to discuss the 
Engineering Curriculum at Carnegie 
were formulated at the regular Tau 
Beta Pi meeting.
This . forum will meet Thursday, 
February 25, at 6 p. m. in the Com
mons Annex. Dinner will be served. 
In addition to the Tau Beta Pi mem
bers, two representatives from the 
faculty of each department of the 
Engineering College have been in
vited to attend, as' well as repre
sentatives from the History, Eco
nomics, Language; and English De
partments. Invitations have also been 
sent to Dr. Baker, Dr. Ihrig and 
Director Mott.
The forum has planned to have 
an informal discussion of the Engi
neering Curriculum, the grading sys
tem at Carnegie, and the feasibility 
of a five or six-ycar course in engi
neering.
Angna Enters, Versatile Dancer, To
Entertain At Music Hall Monday
Womens Scholarship Organization Benefit Marks 
Initial Pittsburgh Appearance of 
Talented Performer
Miss Angna Enters will make 
her first Pittsburgh appearance at 
the benefit of the Women's Schol
arship Organization to be held at 
Carnegie Music Hall; on Monday 
evening, February 29.
Miss Enters has been hailed in 
Europe and on the Eastern coast 
as the "most versatile and talented 
dancer since the heyday of Isa
dora Duncan. According to the 
New York Telegraph Even in her 
comedy selections there is the 
guard against over-exaggeration 
which puts her very near the lead 
of the present-day stage clowns. 
Charles- B. Cochran and Maurice 
Browne recently presented Miss 
Enters for a three weeks engage
ment at the Queens Theatef, Lon
don (her third London season in 
two years), as part of their inter
national season.
Gilbert Seldes in the New York
Evening Graphic says of her: 
Even in a great dramatic week 
she would have been a contestant 
for honors. In the average week 
of this year she is a bright light 
after a fog. . . . She actually be
fore your eyes creates characters 
and even comedies. Her unique 
program includes the "Dance of 
Death, which is considered one 
of the most unusual and sinister 
compositions ever presented. The 
Paris .Tims considers her A dy
namic personalitythe creator of 
an entirely new and arresting art 
form.
The sale of tickets for the- bene
fit will continue in the Administra
tion Building, Arts School and Mar-r 
garet Morrison, until Friday, Feb
ruary 26, after which date they 
will be sold in the Administration 
Building only. These tickets must 
(Continued on Page Four)
Lost-Found Departments 
Hold Unclaimed Articles
Articles held by the various 
Lost and Found Departments on 
the campus are as follows and 
may be obtained upon proper 
identification :
Basement o f Administration 
Hall : one Sentence and Theme 
Book; three College Algebra 
Books; one Alternating Current 
Electricity and Its Application to 
Industry; one Nelsons Hand
book of English ; one log book ; 
one Molieres Masterpieces; one 
mans silk scarf ; four pairs of 
mens kid gloves ; one pair of 
men's pigskin gloves ; two pairs 
of ladys cloth gloves; one mans 
fur-lined glov.e; four notebooks; 
one lady's black stone ring; one 
log-log slide rule; one sheeplined coat, and two rain coats.
Articles found at the Grill in
clude: one Practical Mechanics 
and Strength of Materials;' two 
brown knit scarfs; one chinchilla 
coat belt; one brown and tan 
suede belt; one Kinematics of 
Machines; and one black note
book containing registration card.
The Commons now has the fol
lowing : one coin purse contain
ing $1.14; two ladys silk scarfs, 
and one box of paper fasteners.
PROF. DAVIS TO 
GIVE LECTURES
Professor Arthur- Kyle Davis, 
head of the graduate work in Vic
torian Literature at the University 
Of Virginia, will presentthree lec
tures, tomorrow, Thursday and 
Friday, at 4:30, in the Little Thea
ter of the College of Fine Arts on 
Victorian Literature. No tickets of 
admission will be_ required for tliesc 
lectures. " >
Because of his meritorious work 
in Victorian Literature, while a 
Rhodes Scholar at Balloil College* 
Oxford University, Professor Davis 
was awarded a Sterling Research 
Fellowship in the Graduate School 
of Yale University.
Except for a short period during 
the war, w'hen he was a second 
lieutenant in the United States In(Continued on Page Four)
Seriously Speaking
A Column of Curious Comment 
By NTHAN MILLER
We are urged to believe by some 
that the hideous din now going on 
at Shanghai is merety part of the
process of bringing peace to a dis,r. turbed country, that Japanese arms
are merely subduing disorderly bandits 
and other disturbing elements. And 
when the peace does come after 
the carnage, it will rest of course
on the force of arms.
This course of action and apology 
for it is not greatly dissimilar from 
the preposterous state of affairs in 
Europe which is denoted by the 
pcacc of Versailles. There the im
possible status quo set up by this 
pcace treaty rests upon the force of 
arms, mainly that of France who 
maintains it also with her gold. There 
arc a host of peoples who are res
tive, and like Germany smart under 
the insulting, allegation that they 
alone were responsible for the coin
ing on of the war; states which 
were rent apart in order to satisfy 
the inordinate demands of the new 
smaller nations created by the pcacc 
treaty.
All new treaties that ensue from 
war breed resentment that accumu
lates and breaks out inevitably into 
smouldering or outright war. So, 
the war of revanche is the child 
of the war of conquest.
Whatever Japan majr accomplish in 
the humiliation and dismemberment 
of China,- and irrespective for the 
moment of the just incitements Japan 
majr have had for her summary ac
tion, the bloody "peace will be very 
unstable. It will engender probably 
decades of hidden nationalistic re
venge feeling in China, and the net 
result will be a simmering volcano 
which will inevitably erupt to wipe 
out the "crime of 1932.
The language may seem a bit 
archaic but the judgment was cor
rect when it was said that he who 
takes up the sword shall perish by 
the sword. The only difficulty is 
that though we may assent to this 
dictum for the individual, we still 
cannot conceive that a nation can 
abide by it, for the honor of a 
nation still seems to be fed by glory, 
blood and arms.
The men and women assembled at 
Genera take a back page in the news
papers these days and yield to the 
stories of the maneuvers of the uni
formed pawns at Shanghai. What
ever treaties are evolved at Geneva 
will witness the fate of the Kellogg 
Pact unless we disabuse ourselves at 
once of the mad illusion that peace 
can be purchased by the sword. ,
PHYSICS SENIORS 
DISCUSS THESES
Five Men Finish Research; 
Will Demonstrate At 
Colloquiums
The five Physics seniors have 
completed their theses work and 
will present their reports at the 
Physics Colloquium during the sec
ond semester.
Howard S. Seifert and James T. 
McCartney have developed a vac
uum tube oscillator for audible 
frequencies. They have made a 
special study of the capacities and 
inductances which will reduce the 
overtones of the fundamental fre
quency to a minimum intensity.
Terniai Conductivity is the sub
ject chosen by Rickard N. Ricker. 
Although there has been no estab
lished method .for determining the 
thermal conductivity of sheet metal, 
Ricker has. devised a method and 
constructed an apparatus with 
which he has measured, the. thermal 
conductivity of sheet steel.
Howard N. Maxwell and Thomas 
C. I-Iower have investigated the 
^ThcrmAl * Expansion at high tem
peratures of a special Sodium Cal
cium Silicate containing Fluorine,
Alumnae Award 
8 Scholarships
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
Association has announced that 
scholarships for the second semes
ter have been awarded to eight 
outstanding Margaret Morrison 
seniors.. They arc, Evelyn Ander
son, Betty Mitchell, and Isob.ella 
Taylor, from the Secretarial De
partment; May belle Steele, Alice 
Council!, Mildred Poister, Eliza
beth Shields, and Marion Black, 
from the Home Economics De
partment. These scholarships are 
worth one-half of the tuition fee 
and are given only for the second 
semester. Part of the fund for 
this years scholarships was raised 
by a benefit bridge luncheon, which 
the association held Saturday, Feb
ruary 13, in the Hotel Schenley.
The association is a part of the 
Carnegie Alumni Federation. Each 
year it gives a 'Welcome Dance 
in September for new students, 
and during the winter, a tea in 
honor of the Margaret Morrisonsenior class. Jane Caldwell Harrold is president and Mary Hall 
chairman of the Scholarship com
mittee.
Coming Events
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23
General Assembly at the Carnegie Music Hall at 11:30. Mr. Samuel Lionel Rothafel, Roxy, will address the student body.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24 
Lecture on Bridges, by Dr. David Barnard Steiman, at the Carnegie Union at 8:30 p. m.Lecture by Professor Arthur Kyle Davis, Jr., on Victorian Literature, at 4:30 in the Little Theater. 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25
C. Y. Meeting, 12:30, Commons Annex.Drama Department opens Hobsons Choice in the Little Theater at 8:15 p. m.The Womens Glee Club will be presented at the Carnegie Methodist Episcopal Church at Carnegie.Professor Arthur Kyle Davis, Jr., will lecture on Victorian Literature, at 4:30 in the Little Teater.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26 
Inter-sorority formal at the Pittsburgh Field Club. ,
Lecture by Professor Arthur Kyle Davis, Jr., on Victorian Literature, at 4:30 in the Little Theater.
B. 1DEN PAYNE 
BACK TO STAGE 
FOLK DRAMA
Former Department Head 
Will Produce Play 
By Brighouse
OPENS THURSDAY
Hobsons Choice Pres
ents Portrayal of British 
Middle Class
B. Iden Payne, former head of 
the Department of Drama at Car
negie, and since his departure from 
that post a yearly visiting profes
sor of drama on the campus, ;is 
back in town and deeply engrossed 
in the production of Hobson's 
Choice, by Harold Brighouse, 
which will be presented by the 
students from Thursday, February 
25, to Thursday, March 3, in the 
Little Theater.
Harold Brighouse, a Manchester 
man, belongs to the coterie some
times called The Manchester 
Players. It was the establishment 
in 1908 of a theater in their midst 
which gave the younger'writers of 
the vicinity an' impetus toward the 
drama. The output at that time 
of many local plays is probably 
due to a great extent to the fact 
that the repertory theater opened 
its doors at the time the Irish 
pla.yers, who gave the great stimu
lus to the Folk Drama and are 
responsible, for the Little Theater 
movement throughout America, 
were in the meridian of their 
power. Harold Brighouse is a 
prolific writer, and has been par
ticularly successful in the field of 
the one-act dtama, a field almost 
entirely neglected in America, and 
in England very often regarded 
solely as a curtain-raiser..
Hobson's Choice; a three-act 
folk drama, laid in the'year 1880, 
is full of a quaint humor' which is 
essentially of the theater, and is 
noteworthy for its highly individual 
(Continued on Page Four)
Graduate Work 
Positions Open
An excellent opportunity for 
graduate work has come to the 
attention of the Bureau of Recom
mendations in the form of Re
search Assistantships at the Uni
versity Of Illinois.
These assistantships, for each of 
which- there is an annual stipend 
of $600 and freedom from all .fees 
except the matriculation and di
ploma fees, are open to graduates 
of Carnegie Tech who are pre
pared to undertake graduate study 
in engineering, physics, or chem
istry.
An appointment to the position 
of Research Graduate Assistant is 
made and must be accepted for 
two consecutive collegiate years of 
ten months each, at the expiration 
of which period, if all requirements 
have been met, the degree of- Mas
ter of Science will be conferred. 
Half of the time of an Assistant 
is required in connection writh the 
work of the department to which 
he is assigned, the remainder be
ing available for graduate work. 
Applications must be received not 
later than April 1.
Carnegie seniors are urged to 
try for these Assistantships; grad
uate study is available in archi
tecture, chemistry, civil enginering, 
electrical engineering, mechanical 
engineering, mining engineering, 
physics, railway engineering, and 
theoretical and applied mechanics.
The Bureau has notices of 
scholarships and fellowships from 
schools located throughout the 
country,
Womens Junior Prom In 
Wm. Penn Hotel March 18
On Friday, March 18, the Junior 
Women of Carnegie Tech will hold 
their annual Prom in the Urban 
Room of the William Penn Hotel 
from 9 oclock to 2. Music for the 
dance will be furnished by Kay 
Kaiser and his famous orchestra, 
which played last year at the 
Senior Ball,
All juniors and seniors are eligi
ble to attend, and the alumnae of 
Margaret Morrison and Arts 
School aje urged to attend. Tick
ets at $5 may be obtained from 
any of the committee members. 
The second installment ticket sale 
will be held some time during the 
next two weeks. Ruth Nye, chairman 
of the -arrangements, ,has the fol
lowing girls to assist her: Marion 
McNary, Anne Warden, Margaret 
Seibert, Maxine Piekarski, Bett}' 
Cooper, Eleanor Fahnestock and 
Ruth Phillips.
PLAN BOXING 
MATCH DANCE 
FOR SATURDAY
Affair Will Be in Thistle 
Hall Until 12 OClock; 
Fee, $1.00
STARTS PROMPTLY AT 9
Formal Attire is Suggested 
For Boxing Fray With 
Bucknell
Following the boxing match with 
Bucknell, Saturday night in the 
gymnasium, there will be a dance 
yi Thistle Hall from 9 until ' 1-2 
oclock. Music for the dance will 
be furnished by Jerry McGeorge 
and his Carnegians.
It has again been suggested that 
those attending the match and 
dance wear formal attire, although 
it is not compulsory. Since the 
last attempt to raise this sport to 
a social plane was- acclaimed a 
success, it is hoped that a large 
number of students will follow 
this suggestion next Saturday. Spe
cial ring-side seats will be reserved 
for. those appearing in formal 
clothes.
Tickets will be priced at $1 and 
will be sold only at the door. For 
those not attending th boxing 
match in the gymnasium, the door 
near Skibo Inn may be used for 
entrance to Thistle Hall. Those 
coming from the gymnasium will 
enter directly into the hall through 
the entrance at the right of the 
stage in the gym.
The chaperones for the dance 
will be Mr. and Mrs. James 
Austraw, Mr. and Mrs. ' Henry 
Brocknian, and Mr. and Mrs. How
ard Baughman.
The Bucknell boxing team .will; arrive in Pittsburgh Saturday 
morning, arid there will be no 
delay in starting the match. It 
will begin at 8:15 p. m. and con
tinue until about 9:30.
Dr. Steinman 
To Talk Here
Dr. David Barnard Steinman, 
consulting engineer of New York 
City and designer of some of the 
most notable bridges in the world, 
will deliver a lecture here Wednes
day evening in which he will re
view the progress in bridge en
gineering in the past half century, 
He will also give a description of 
the St. Johns Bridge at Portland, 
the longest and highest span in the 
West, which he designed. The 
public is invited to attend the lec
ture, which will be held in the 
Carnegie Union, Administration 
Hall, beginning at 8:30 p. m.
Soon after his graduation from 
Columbia University Dr. Steinman 
became associated with Gustav 
Lindenthal in the design and con
struction of the Hell Gate Arch 
Bridge in New York. He was 
associated with the same engineer 
in the construction of Sciotoville 
Bridge over the Ohio River, . the 
longest continuous bridge in the 
world.
In^ the design of world famous 
bridges, Dr. Steinman has oper
ated in Canada,, Australia, Ger
many, Denmark, Brazil, Spain, 
Siam, and Bolivia. Among the fa
mous bridges Dr. Steinman has 
designed in whole or in part are 
the Florianopolis Bridge in Brazil, 
the longest in South America; the 
Grant Bridge over the Ohio at 
Portsmouth, the Ambassador 
Bridge at Detroit, and the Hudson 
River Bridge in New York.
He fs the author of a number 
of books and articles on bridge 
engineering,, dealing particularly 
with suspension and long-span 
bridges. He is a member of Phi 
Beta Ivappa, and of numerous pro
fessional societies.
Roles In Operetta Open
The Music Department has an
nounced that roles in the chorus of 
Gondoliers, a comic operetta by 
Gilbert and Sullivan, which the de
partment will produce in the near 
future, are open to all Carnegie 
students. *
While tenors, especialh', are need
ed, any Carnegie student is eligible. 
Anyone who is interested in singing 
in this operetta should appty as soon 
as possible to Miss Seaman, in Room 
160 of the Fine Arts Building, or to 
Victor OBrien, head of the Music 
Department.
Student Tickets at Alvin
Second balcony seats for Friday 
night's runof Ethyl Barrymores play 
School For Scandal at the Alvin, 
are available through Mr. Kenyons 
office in Arts school.
Roxy To Speak Today At General
Assembly In Carnegie Music Hall
Dr. Baker Will Give Banquet Tonight At Pittsburgh 
Athletic Association in Honor of 
Theatrical Producer
"Roxy, whose real name is 
Samuel Lionel Rothafel, wellknown theatrical and radio pioneer, 
will speak at the general assembly 
today at 11:30 in the Carnegie 
Music Hall. A banquet will be 
given for him at the Pittsburgh 
Athletic Association by President 
Baker in the evening.One of Roxys outstanding 
achievements is his nation-wide 
broadcasting of programs from the 
stage of his theater. He was the 
first to sponsor this type of radio 
entertainment.
Among his accomplishments is 
the development of a new tech
nique in motion picture presenta
tion. He developed the idea of 
introducing the film with an ap
propriate prologue, and adding 
short subjects to film entertain
ment. Both of these ideas have 
been accepted by theatrical direc
tors generally.
Roxy has also done work of 
a philanthropic nature. While on 
a theatrical tour, he was struck 
by the -monotony of the life of 
disabled veterans of the Walter 
Reed Hospital in Washington, D.
C., and had radio receiving sets 
presented to them.
He has had an unusually event
ful and varied life. Born in Still
water, Minn., in 1882, and moving 
to New York at the age of 12, 
he engaged in odd jobs until he 
was 17. Following this, he was 
successively a book agent, and a 
marine in the U. S. Marine Corps, 
where he served seven years. It 
was not until he went to Forest 
City that he became interested in 
motion pictures.
He started work of this kind on 
a small scale in 1907 and by 1913 
was chosen managing director of 
the Strand theater in New York.
SORORITIES HOLD 
FORMAL FRIDAY
Pittsburgh Country Club is 
Scene of Annual 
Affair
The  Inter-Sorority Formal, the 
annual dance given under the aus
pices of the Inter-Sorority Council, 
will be held Friday night, at the 
Pittsburgh Country Club, Beechwood Boulevard.
A local organization, Jack Bruces 
orchestra, has been engaged to 
play at the dance, from the hours 
of 9 to 1. The price of admission 
is $3 per couple, and since the 
dance is limited to sorority mem
bers and their guests, $1 fine will 
be levied for each member not go
ing. . Four sororities, Alpha Kappa 
Psi, Beta Pi, Beta Tau Lambda 
and Gamma Gamma Gamma, will 
be represented; their banners will 
serve as d'ecorations for the ball
room.
Betty Phillips is chairman of 
the dance; shtf will be assisted by 
the following committee: Martha 
Burry, invitations; Josephine Wardell, posters; Hulda Brierly and 
Helen Fleming, programs; Edna 
Pearson and Dorothy Cully, plates.
The patrons, for the dance are as 
follows: Miss Mary Watson Green; 
Miss Schraeder, sponsor of the 
Alpha Kappa Psi. sorority; Miss 
Lawton, sponsor of the Beta Pi 
Sorority; Miss, Canfield, sponsor 
of,the Beta Tau Lambda sorority, 
and Miss Kcnley, sponsor of the 
Gamma Gamma Gamma sorority.
To replace Dr. Charles Heinroth, former organist at Car
negie Institute and now director 
of the Department of Music at 
the College of the City of New 
York, the Carnegie Institute has 
obtained a number of temporary 
organists from various parts of 
the country.
Each week Carnegie Institute 
will present a different organist.
The following list includes the 
organists who will play until a 
permanent successor to Dr. Heinroth has been .selected: Irwin 
Morgan of Philadelphia, on Feb
ruary 6 and 7; Edwin Kraft of 
Cleveland, on February 13 and 
14; Henry Servet of New York, 
on February 20 and 21; Ernest 
White o'f Philadelphia, on Feb
ruary 27 and 28; Rollo Mailand 
of Philadelphia, on March 19 and 
20; Walter Weild of Long Island, 
on March 26 and 27; William 
/ Zcuch of Boston, on April 2 and 
3; Daniel Philpter of St. Louis, 
on April 19 and 20; Gordon 
Mcvin of Johnstown, on April
23 and 24.
A.S.C.E. Hears 
OLeary Wed.
J. E. OLeary, general sales man
ager of the Pittsburgh-Des Moines 
Steel Company, will address the 
Carnegie student chapter of the 
American Society of Civil Engi
neers at its weekly meeting in 
Room 60, Engineering Hall, at 
11:30 tomorrow. Mr. OLearys 
subject, "The Engineer in Busi
ness, will deal with the less tech
nical topics-of the problems which 
face the engineer after he has es
tablished himself in the business 
wrorld. It is this type of topic 
that Professor McCullough, head 
of the Department of Civil Engi
neering, wTishes to have presented 
this semester.
The Pittsburgh-Des Moines Steel 
Company, a Pittsburgh firm, is one 
of the leading manufacturers and 
erectors of elevated tanks in the 
United States. Mr. OLeary will 
limit his practical examples to in
cidents which* have arisen in the 
management of this company.
Tea Dance Tomorrow In 
Thistle Hall From 4 to 6
Scarab, national architectural 
honorary fraternity, will sponsor 
its first tea dance , tomorrow after
noon in Thistle Hall, from 4 to 
6 oclock. Bocchicchios Venetian 
STcnaders, an eight-piece orches
tra, will play. Bocchicchios 
Venetian Serenadcrs may be re
membered for having played at 
the Annual Fall Dance of the 
.Mens Dormitory Council.
Since this dance will be the 
first Scarab has had this season, 
the members arc extending an 
invitation to the entire student 
body to attend.
Admission will be 25 cents for 
co-eds and 35 cents for men.
Temporary Organists 
Will Play At Institute
CARNEGIE MEN 
RECEIVE AWARDS
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
received the only first medal award
ed in the competition arranged by the 
Alumni of the American Academy in 
Rome, according to an announcement 
received last week by the College of Fine Arts.
The three students who collaborated 
on the' winning design as architect, 
painter, and sculptor arc Melvin 
Morris, Edward Schade and Raymond 
Barger, all seniors. Mr. Morris and 
Mr. Schade are enrolled in the de
partment of architecture; Mr. Bar
ger, in sculpture.
Four second medals were award
ed in the same competition. James 
McNaughton, E. J. Bocchicchio and 
J. Lissoto of" Carnegie Tech received 
one of these. Two of the second 
medals were won by Yale University, 
and the fourth by Armour Institute, 
Chicago. McNaughton is a sophomore 
(Continued on Page Four)
REGISTRATION 
TOTALS SHOW 
LITTLE CHANGE
Incomplete Figures Show 
Enrollment of 2,190 
At Mid-Year
36 UNDER LAST YEAR
Late Entrants May Swell 
Total Beyond That 
of Last Year
With only partially complete figures) 
available, it appeared probable today 
that the enrollment in the day, 
classes o Carnegie for the second 
semester would show only a slight; 
change from that of previous mid-< 
year registrations.
Official figures issued at the Office) 
of the Registrar and including regis-* 
tration through Thursday, February 
18 show an enrollment of 2,190. This! 
compares with 2,226 in February 19^11 
and 2,151 in Februarjr 1930,' showing 
a difference of 36 between this and1 
last year's enrollment. It is thought, 
however, that late registration of new, 
students and also of many who have 
been sick may swell this years total 
beyond that of last year.
It is not likely that the enrollment 
will be as great as that of last Fall] 
when the registration was the great-* 
cst in the history of the school. Mid-< 
year enrollments have generally beett 
under those of the Fall for a numbcr of years.
This years enrollment is divided1 
through the various schools as fol-* 
lows: Engineering, 653; Industries, 
238; Freshman Engineering and Inn 
dustries, 338; Fine Arts, 538, and M, 
M. C. C., 423.
By classes, the enrollment is dis-* 
tributed as follows: Graduate, 29 
Senior, 442; Sub-Senior, 27; Junior,, 
435; Sophomore, 584; Freshmen, 582 
Short Course, 43,. and Special, '18.
The enrollment by. classcs; in thd 
College of Engineering is as follows: Graduate, 29; Senior, 174^
Junior, 187; Sophomore, ' 259, and 
Special, 4.
The class enrollment in, the Collcgq 
of Industries is as follows: Senior* 
(Continued on Page Four)
Kilties Will Hold 
Practice Thursday
The Kiltie Band will hold its first! 
practice of the second semester next 
Thursday evening at 7 oclock inj 
Thistle Hall, according to an an-* 
nounccmcnt by the managers.
A call has been issued for all 
students who arc interested in play
ing in the band to report at this: 
rehearsal. This applies especially tor 
students who were ineligible during 
the first semester, to those who did 
not receive kilts during the first: 
semester, and to new freshmen en-* 
tering for the second semester.
For two - years work with thd 
band, a silver activities key is award
ed, and for four years' a gold key. 
Each year the band makes several 
trips with the football team, as well 
as playing at all of the home games. 
After football season is over, the 
band usually gives several concerts, 
in Pittsburgh and in nearby towns.
It is also announced that members 
of the band are to report in uni
form at all of the remaining home 
basketball games.
Rise Of Raw Material Prices
Indicates Possible Business Revival
Ge nra lAsmby Ga Cgii
Whether or not it was Mr. Hoo
ver, the great engineer, 'that 
dammed, drained and ditched the 
country, the fact remains that it is 
ditched and that all hands from 
the engineer himself, through Con
gress to' the high p/essure adver-' 
tisers and the think-the-rightthought cults are now endeavoring 
to set the country back on the 
road again.
Although a humpty-dumpty de
feat seems to be staring us in the 
face, it is announced from high 
places that we are undaunted. 
But the Lindbergh We", with all 
its connotation of intrepid flight 
above and beyond the earthly 
things of life will not prevent our 
unhappy landing . somewhere with 
the realization, that there is a dis
tinction between fact and .fancy 
even in the strongest flights of 
thought.
The fact is, that it is the smooth 
and easy flow of exchange in 
goods and services among pror 
duccrs and consumers and nothing 
else that sets the wheels of in
dustry going, motivates the coTnmercial machinery, and gives us 
wrhat is known as business pros
perity.
The relative prices of goods do
not indicate a condition in which' 
all the elements of business ac
tivity await the ignition spark oE 
confidence and credit to spurt into; 
the rapid rate of exchange that} 
dazzled us in 1929. On the con-i 
trary, the picture shows these pro-, 
ducers jockeying for position and 
unwilling to toe the starting line* 
With the handicaps awarded by 
the recent price decline, manufacturers stand out in front with ai 
tremendous advantage over farm-i 
ers and producers of raw materials..
Manufactured articles have made 
a most stubborn resistance to the 
general 30.2 per cent decline inj 
wholesale prices. Up to Oclobcr the 
purchasing power of razu materials 
fell 134 per cent per unit, and that 
of farm products 24.8 per cent while 
the purchasing pozuer of manufactured 
goods rose 6.1 per cent.
Obviously if there is to be ai 
return to the 1929 flow of busi
ness, the purchasing power of 
manufactured goods must come 
down, or the prices of raw ma
terials and farm products must go 
up, or still a third possibility; the 
prices of all must converge.
We now witness the efforts of 
the Reconstruction Finance Cor
poration to raise the prices of raw 
(Continued on page 4)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO'THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1932.
. Bucknoll-Carnogio Boxing Match 
In Skibo Gym ot 8:00 P. M. 
Ringsido Seat Roquiros TuxTARTAN SPORTS PAGE
Varsity Track Candidates 
Meet in Trophy Room 
Wednesday at 4:45 P. M.
TARTAN BOXERS 
TO FACE STRONG 
BUCKNELL TEAM
Tartans Encounter Three Eastern Teams;
Allegheny, W. & J. Loose To Carnegie
A MID-SEASON CALL FOR BOXERS is in the air for 
this week. With the scholastic eligibility ruling taking a toll 
of six capable boxers and sickness incapacitating two more, 
Coach Ernie Sesto faccB the remaining three matches of his 
schedule with a small, though promising, handful of athletes. 
Such a predicament would place any coach in a tough spot, and 
now is the time for any talent of even mediocre ability to come 
to the fore. In keeping with his policy, Sesto extends his call to 
only those who have a genuine love for the' boxing game. The 
real need for candidates is found in the 135, 155 and 165-pound 
classes. New men should report any afternoon in the gym.* p. * * *
COACH HOGAN'S TOSSERS appeared in their true form 
as they gave Allegheny a Saturday night drubbing. Bob Smith 
lead the scoring, with Stentz and Jimmy Leonard making time
ly shots. Siegals play at guard 
fitted in well with the fast, smooth 
Faction in the first half.
While displaying their wares on
three eastern floors this week, the
Tartans will find plenty of opposi
tion in each case. Princeton has a 
fair quintet, while Temple has 
every opportunity for a victory on their own floor. George
town has defeated Pitt by three points and lost to the. Dukes
by thirteen.*****
BUCKNELLS BOXERS arc due for an appearance this 
Saturday night in the home gym. Their recent 5 to 2 loss to 
West Virginia is reason to believe that their margin of victory 
or defeat of the Skibos will be a minute quantity. In Carr and 
Wertz the Plaid boxers have an even chance to gain a decision. 
Atlas will be strongly opposed by Captain Boerner of  the 
Bisons. If Jerry OToole, who has joined the squad within the 
past week, works into shape, he will be matched with Russo 
in the 165-pound class. The light-heavy weight entry is a 
problem with the two Tartan athletes, Waldron and Croissant, 
unable to compete. The former is recovering from the flu, 
while Croissant has a possible hand fracture from his last bout.
As in the previous match, those with the tux will be given 
the ring-side seats.* > * * *
TRACK POSSIBILITIES for the coming season will be 
thoroughly discussed by Coach Halferty in the meeting tomor
row afternoon in the Trophy Room. Any varsity candidates 
with the slightest inclination for this sport should report, for 
the team is picked only after a thorough competition.*****
RANNY BOYER ECLIPSED every bit of the spotlight 
and likewise the old record in the 1,500-yard back stroke event 
in the Tartan pool last week end. For sixty lengths he parted 
the waves with his clock-like movement that brought him in 
slightly more than two minutes ahead of the existing mark. 
There is every reason for this to be accepted as a national 
amateur, record, and eventually a world mark,
Boyer also managed to take first place, by more than onehall a length, in the back-stroke race which was a part of the 
Y. M. C. A. meet. Derdyn, Edwards, Franlcc, LaChancc and 
Thompson were largely responsible for the defeat given the 
independent team, Coach Risedorphs swimmers should come 
through on the comfortable end of a score in the Case and 
Western Reserve meets that take place in Cleveland this week end.
Plebe tankers will enjoy their final splash tomorrow when 
the Kiski team comes here for a meet. The Skibo freshmen 
reached a new low in the watermarket when the University 
School of Cleveland gained a virtual shut-out over the Plebes. 
They have not promised to dig up the bottom of the pool on 
Wednesday, but somebody must be there to see that they come up again.*****
j ^ WO ULD HARDLY SEEM FAIR to the sincre efforts 
nf the Slcibo mitmSn to omit an explanation of the unsports
manlike dealings that they received from the Svracusc authori
ties in their match last Saturday. The Tartan boxers accept 
the i to 0 defeat with no alibis, but there arc certain FACTS that must not by overlooked.
Apparently the^ Orange coach, Roy Simmons, was prompted 
by an over enthusiastic boxing crow.d and the assurance of a 
win when lie entered Joe Moran, 155 pounder, in the 175 
class. It was a known fact that either Tartan entry in this 
light-heavy division could have defeated the regular Syracuse 
man of-this class, but Moran was shifted in the lineup after 
his class had been forfeited to him. This act alone is not 
keeping with the intercollegiate boxing ethics
It so happened that the 176 pound bout was the most sm
elting contest of the evening, and fortunately, or unfortunately 
for the referee several pictures were taken of the action. Wh 
the Syracuse battler was on the canvas it shows' the referee 
motioning his Skibo opponent to the neutral corner, but when 
the latter was floored the picture shows the arbiter giving the
The n thC .fi1'1156 b0XCr Within rMch his opponent .i Orange athletes were assisted with similar breaks
hroughont the match, to say nothing of the illegal cheering
|iStee T st5e of the bouts. It's a wonder CoachSesto did not withdraw his men earlier in the* * * *  *
Carnegiels sccond home boxing 
match of the season is scheduled for 
this Saturday when the powerful 
Bucknell squad pays a visit to llic 
Smoky City. Bucknell is touted as one 
of the best boxing teams in theeast, 
and it is a certainty that the crippled 
Tartan team will have some lively 
opposition. An option of. ring-side 
seats will be given those wearing the 
formal dress.
Down at Syracuse last Saturday 
the crowd howled with glee as they 
witnessed one of the best fights ever 
put on in intcrcoilpgiatc circles there. 
Jack Croissant, Plaid- heavy, and Joe 
Moran, Orange knockout sensation 
for the last three years, hit each 
other with everything but the stool, 
during the two rounds llieir bout 
lasted. "Tiger Joe" came out of his 
corner fast, looking for a quick 
knockout opening, and managed to 
run into a sledge-hammer right that 
nearly ended the fight right then and 
there. Although badly dazed, Moran 
got to his feet quickly and waded in 
for more, something which he was 
soon to get. Twice more lie was 
floored for counts, but each time he 
managed to stumble to his feet and 
lasted the round out.' Revived by the 
rest between rounds, he came out 
strong in the sccond and stopped the 
Skibo boxer midway in the round. 
Croissant, weakened by the loss of 
so much weight, had evidently spent 
most of strength in the first stanza 
Syracuse papers hail this encounter 
as the hardest battle of Morans 
colorful career.
All in all, it was a tough night for 
the crippled Carnegie squad. With 
only four regulars available for the 
meet, and none of them in the b'est 
of condition, it was quickly noticeable 
that the Tartans .did not have i 
chance.Royal Wertz, Plaid midget star, cn^ 
countered a coming intercollegiate 
champ in Ray Burkett and was de
feated after two rounds of hard 
going. Ralph Atlas likewise had tob 
experienced opposition in Captain A1 
Wertheimer, national intercollegiate 
champion, and lost by the kayo route 
in the sccond round.
Carnegies .only victory came as a 
result of Abe Konnicks decisive, de
cision over Harry Burns in an ex
hibition match. Burns, fresh from im
pressive victories over opponents from 
Pitt, M. I. T., and 'Dartmouth was 
entirely outclassed by his aggressive 
Plebe opponent. However, this re
sult did not count in the scoring.'
Henry Carr lost i a close decision 
to Herb Ross of Syracuse in the 
MS pound class. During the .first two 
rounds Ross piled up a substantial 
lead, but in the third he ran into 
plenty of trouble and looked out on 
his feet when the filial gong sounded.
Late tonight the Carnegie Tech 
baskdtball team leaves Pittsburgh for 
Princeton for the first of the threegame invasion of the cast. The team 
will be away for the remainder of 
the week in which time they will 
encounter Temple University and 
Georgetown in addition to Princeton.
This wijl be the first time a Car
negie Tech team has encountered a 
Princeton basketball team. The Tigers 
arc right up in the running for the 
championship in the Eastern Inter
collegiate league.
After the game with Princeton the 
Plaid team motors to Philadelphia 
where, after a days rest, they meet 
our old rivals Temple. Without a 
doubt we think that the Temple game 
was the best one we played this 
year, and the Skibos will have to 
be ir just as good condition this time 
to enable them to win again. In the 
last game Carnegie won by the score 
of 35^25. Temple has recently de
feated West Virginia, a team -which 
last1 week took the measure of" the 
Tartans.
: game.
INTRAMURAL ACTIVITIES will come into full bloom withm the next month. Twenty games this week in the bas
WM ft, gUeS arr8 Sre t0 give some idea of the top-notchers With the annual swimming meet set for March 18 CoacliRisedorph would like to
that a good meet will result. More definite plan! foVVtramura'I 
ne^ future  k"1 Week with I --Petition t the
! iLfl OPCMTING nMuAcH1:30T
ENGRAVERS
0AyodgSbi Lgygr RyAdbi
ZINC ETCHINGS 
COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY 
ARTISTS an 
ILLUSTRATORS
POST-SUN Buildmq 
PITTSBURGH 
Phones:GR$nl 1654- or 1655
An Assef to College 
Students
College men and women, 
accustomed to. regulating their own expenditures and planning their own budgets are receiving valuable training in handling money that will prove beneficiai in afterlife. In this connection, a bank account is an important asset to people of college age. The Mellon National Bank is always glad io receive the accounts of college students.
The last game in the invasion will' 
be in Washington, D. C.j on Satur
day night with Georgetown. The 
Hoyas have been very inconsistent 
this year having? won some very 
tough games, and lost some easy 
ones.. They have defeated Pitt and 
lost two games to Duqucsne.
Last week the Plaid engaged in 
three games of which they won two 
and lost one. Tuesday night they set 
back the rejuvinated Prcxies at Little 
Washington by the score of 31-26. 
However, on Wednesday night, the 
mountaineers of West Virginia proved 
a little too good for the Tartans and 
when the game was over they were 
at the' long end of a 25-21 score.
Saturday night the Tartans seemed 
to recover some of their old time
form when they downed the fast
Allegheny team by the score of 35- 
26. A few minutes after the sec
ond half began this lead was in
creased to 21 points when a com
plete new team was injected into
the contest by Coach Hogan.
Important Track
Meeting Scheduled
The call for men to represent 
Carnegie Tech pn the track and 
field for the 1932 season, has been 
issued. A very important meet
ing of varsity track candidates will 
be held at 4:45 Wednesday, February 
24 in the Trophy Room. As the pos
sibilities of individual development 
are as great or greater in track 
than in any other sport, any stu
dent who has a desire to partici
pate in the cinder or weight'sports, 
regardless of his ability, should re
port Wednesday.
Intramural Basketball
Results: .Senior Architects 154 Lambda Chi Alpha 4 Tuesday, February 23
Wclch vs. Beta Sigma Rho Kappa Delta Rho vs. Pi Kappa Alpha Sigma phi Epsilon vs. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
?Kappa Sigma vs. Tau Delta PhiWednesday, February 24
Scohcll vs. Senior Architects
Plebes Play Kiski 
Friday In Saltsburg
The Plebe floOrm.cn have but one 
game scheduled for this week. 
Kiski will try to avenge the defeat 
suffered at the hands of the Car
negie first-year men earlier this 
season when the two teams clash 
Friday night.
In the first encounter with the 
Saltsburg boys this season, the 
Plebes came from behind to take 
the game by a 29-25 score. Coach 
Neasc expects to have his hands 
full in the return engagement Fri
day night as Milim, stellar guard 
for the Skibo team, is ineligible.
Sigma Nu vs. Englehrecht 
Lambda Chi Alpha vs. Phi Kappa Beta Thcta PI vs. Delta Upsilon 
Henderson vs. Alpha Sigma Phi Alpha Tau Omega vs. Sigma Phi Epsilon
Thursday, February 25
Phi Sigma Kappa vs. Delta Phi Delta Delta Sigma Lambda vs. Phi Kappa 
Phi Kappa Psi vs. Thcta XI McGill vs. Delta Tnu Delta
PLAID NATORS 
DEFEAT Y.M.C.A. 
BY 40-26 SCORE
Last Saturday, the varsity swim
mers won their third straight victory, 
Downtown Y. M. C. A. being the 
victim this time, by a 40 to 26 score. 
The feature of the meet was a 
specially scheduled 1,500 yard back
stroke event in which Ranny Boyer, 
Plaid sophomore star, broke the 
worlds record for this distance. 
Boyer, swimming against time, low
ered Jack I-Iosie, Brooklyn swimmers 
time from 24:46 to 22:44.2. Ranny 
swam the 60 lengths in his usual 
smooth, powerful style and finished 
strong.
Tl e varsity had little trouble with 
the Y 'swimmers, despite the absence 
of vacationers Miller and Eastabrookc 
and the ineligible Dennison. Carnegie 
won the 200 yard relay in handy 
fashion, but had to be content with 
thirds in the 50 yard free style and 
diving. Boyer and Captain Bill Ed
wards took the first two places in 
the backstroke and regained some of 
the lost points.
Wally Deredj'ne won the 220 yard 
free style handily and again Ed
wards camc through in great style to 
gain another all-important second 
place... The breaststroke was taken in 
fine fashion by Thompson and Looney. 
Franke, Tartan speedster, won the 
100 3rard freestyle, the. last event on 
the program. La Chance placed third 
in this , race.
The varsity makes a two-day trip 
to Cleveland this week-end, meeting 
Case on Friday and Western Reserve 
on Saturday. As Case has been de
feated by Wooster, one of Techs 
.early victims, Carnegie expects little 
difficulty in taking the Ohioans. And 
to make matters easier, Case has al
ready defeated Western Reserve.
CLAN NEWS
Saturday, February 27
Beta Thcta PI vs. Lambda Chi Alpha 1:30 
Alpha Tati Omega vs. Pi Kappa Alpha 2 :30 Monday, February 29 
Phi Sigma Kappa vs. Delta Tau Delta 
Sigma Nu vs. Thcta Xi 
McGill vs. Delta Tau Delta Sigma Phi Epsilon vs. PI Kappa Alpha 
Games at 8:30 p. m. All other games at 7:30 unless otherwise specified.
Washington, D. C.
The Washington Clan is plan
ning a meeting to be held Satur
day, February 27, preceeding the 
Georgetown-Carriegic Basketball game 
Mr. Overend expects to be present, 
and all alumni from Baltimore are 
invited.
After the meeting, all present 
will adjourn to the basketball 
game, where the Georgetown Ath
letic Association has promised to 
reserve a section in the gym for 
Carnegie rooters.
Further information can be ob
tained from William D. Hall, Apart
ment 511,  3511 Davenport Street, 
N..W., Washington, D. C.
San Francisco 
The San Francisco Clan held a 
stag party a couple of weeks ago 
with twenty members present. It 
was in the form of a dinner, with 
cards and poker afterward.
The committee consisted of Jim 
Hall E23, Fred Foster E08, and 
Charles Crawford E13.
Schenectady 
The Schnectady Clan is holding 
a party on Thursday, February 25, 
at which time the Carnegie movies 
will be shown. There will also be 
bridge and dancing. The party is 
to be held at the home of Jimmy 
Samson E08, 45 Bcdsford Road.
Sports Calendar
CLAN DAY TO BE 
SAT., MARCH 12
'Across the Continent Clan Day 
will be held this year on Saturday, 
March 12. This observance is be
coming an annual custom among 
the alumni of Carnegie, as this is 
the third year in which a certain 
date has been set aside for all 
Carnegie Clans to meet. During 
the past two year? this has proved 
to be a splendid opportunity to 
create enthusiasm and work up the 
membership of individual clans..
Already many clans arc making 
plans for parties on Clan Day and 
it looks as if this would be the 
most successful ever sponsored. 
The following is a list of clans 
that .will hold meetings and the 
members in charge: For Southern 
California, G. R. Brandin, 308 
Transportation Building, Los An
geles; for Buffalo, A. L. Beck, 
1064. Elliott Square Building; Phil
adelphia (Women) R. L. Rothaus, 
1333 Pike Street; Philadelphia 
(men) Paul V. Shauer, 43 Waverly 
Road, Slanerch; Akron, T. B. Goldham, Mohawk Rubber Company; 
Chicago, C. B. Schmidt, 600 Jack
son Boulevard; Youngstown, W. H. 
Hoobler, 204 Regent Street; Can
ton, W. S. Downes, 611 Twentysecond street; Schenectady, B. R. 
HiH, 219 Rlexander Avenue, Sco
tia, N. Y.
Waddell Named Head Coach
Feb. 24, Basketball, Princeton at Princeton Feb. 24, Swimming, Kiski, here Feb. 26. Basketball, Temple at Phila.
Feb. 26, Basketball, Kiski at Saltsburg Feb. 26, Swimming, Case at Cleveland Feb. 27, Basketball, Georgetown, Wash., D.C. 
Feb. 27, Swimming, W..Rcserve at Cleveland 
Feb. 27, Boxing, Bucknell, here Mar. 1, Basketball, W. Virginia, here Mar. 1, Basketball, W. Va. Frosh, here 
Mar. 4, Basketball, Duquesnc, here Mar. 4, Basketball, Duke Frosh, here Mar. 4, Swimming, F. & M.. here 
Mar. 4, Boxing, W. & J., Wash., Pa.Mar. 8. Basketball, Geneva at Beaver Falls Mar. 8, Basketball, Geneva Res. at Beaver Falls 
Mar. 11, Basketball, Penn State, here Mar. 11, Basketball. Penn State Frosh, here 
Mar. 12, Boxing, Pitt, here
Coach Bob Waddell will enter 
his eleventh year with the Car
negie football team as head coach. 
This decision was .reached by the 
Athletic Council last week after a 
thorough consideration of former 
Coach Steffens resignation.
However, Judge Wally Steffen 
will not entirely sever relations 
with the school, but he will serve 
in the capacity of advisory coach 
to Waddell.
WOMENS ATHLETICS
Rifle
The Carnegie; Womens Rifle 
Team won its telegraphic1 match 
for the week ,diiding February 13 
from Washington University of St. 
Louis, Mo. Carnegies score was 
490 .out of a possible 500, while 
Washington University burned in 
a scorc of 476.
This week the match was fired 
against University . of Pittsburgh, 
University of Illinois and Univer
sity of California. Stage two of 
the National Rifle Association 
Match was. also shot. The N. R. 
A. Match consists of three. stages 
to be shot in ' three consecutive 
weeks, and each stage oonsists of 
two targets which must be shot 
consecutively in one day.
The following five iris turned 
in scores to place:
Voegtly  --------------100
Brooks _________:1s.__ 98
. Kidwell .............J_____ 96
Warna -------------------- 96
Drexel Institute, University of 
Missouri, Michigan State, University 
of Pennsylvania, and Northwestern 
University will be the opponents. of 
Carnegies Womens Rifle Team. 
Stage three of the N. R. A. Match 
will also be shot. This is the final 
stage of the match which is fired 
by all members of the association.
ure.thevlasteBetter
TYPEWRITERS
All Mnbes Sold and 
Rented
Special Rates to Students
Agency Underwood, 
Royal-Remington and 
Corona Portables
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE
Phone Atlantic 0342tgrg1M
The Personal Waiting Machine
LIKE TO HEAR A REALLY 
GOOD RADIO PROGRAM? 
 Tonight. . . tune in on the 
Chesterfield broadcast at 10:30 
Eastern Standard Time and 
listen to music by Nat Shilkreta 
Orchestra and Alex Gray, popu
lar baritone. Its on the Colum
bia Network every night, except 
Sunday.
0 "Im sort of restless... always on the look
out for something that hits the old tasta 
spot... and clicks! But Ive noticed that I 
never get tired of Chesterfields. They alway3 
taste better to me.
"That cant be an accident. It stands to 
reason ... a cigarette that always tastes 
better ... has got to be made better. You 
know what I mean ... purer materials . .. 
more up-to-date ways of working. Im will
ing to bet thats why my last Chesterfield of 
the day is as mild and satisfying as the first!
THEYRE MILDER   THEYRE PURE   THEY TASTE BETTER  
 1932, Liggett & Myeks Tobacco Ccy

---------------------------------------------------

-TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1932.THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Copr.. 1932,Tbe American Tobacco Co.
Now I use LUCKIES only
"I have had to smoke various brands of cigarettes in pic
tures, but it was not until I smoked LUCKIES that I dis 
covered the only cigarettes that did not irritate my throat. 
Now I use LUCKIES only. The added convenience of 
your improved Cellophane wrapper that opens so easily 
is grand. ^ (~\ f)
POOR LITTLE RICH GIRL 
Sue Carol's wealth was a hlndranco rather than a help. Holly
wood thought sho was ritzy, but 
Sue soon provod sho was a "regu
lar guy"... sho mado 14 pictures 
her very first year... her latest 
Is UNIVERSAL'S "GRAFT." Sho 
has roachod for a LUCKY for two 
years. Not a farthing was paid 
for those kind words. That* 
white of you, Suo Carol.
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN DEVOTED TO THE NIGHT STUDENTS.Ube Carnegie flMai
PROMPT RETURNS FROM ALL DANCE TICKETS REQUESTED
leTpaiIdleffat Itoflent
Just as I surmised, the announce
ment came out that there would be 
no classes on Washingtons Birth
day. Its just two hundred years 
since that eventful day. I am won
dering (if George came here today, 
no, I dont mean King George), 
what his impression would be of 
the country now. He would find 
the Andys and the Herberts all 
wrought up over the furrin loan 
situation. ' He would find the po
litical atmosphere all muddled as 
to whom the dark horse will be to 
trot in his footsteps. He would 
find that the social register is still 
. wrangling over whos who and 
whats what. There is no end to 
the things he would find, even to 
the night students, at Carnegie 
Tech holding a dance on his birth
day;* * * * *
Well, after all that has been said 
and done, and practiced,. I see that 
something has been thought out 
relative . to the barking situation 
(parking situation)It really did 
seem like a barking situation, 
though. However, it is promising 
to note that we will be able to 
drive out said gas buggies to the 
campus and really have a place to 
rest them until we are ready to re
treat after a session with the profs. 
I wonder how long it will be be
fore the plan is put into effect. It 
can't come too soon to suit me. 
No, I dont have a car, but I just 
like to see the other fellow drive 
his over to the campus and then 
try to park. We shall live in hopes 
for the improvement and hold our 
. breath until it is put into force.* * * # *
Welcome back, Fritz. Glad to 
see you again. You didnt know 
1 that we) planted moon vines for the 
night students to go moon gazing 
.at: since you left, did you? Well, 
we did. They have been twining 
then/selves around the yellow 
horses and they make a beautiful 
sight for sore eyes. Did you sec 
-anything like these horses in EuI rope ,on any^oif1 the campuses of 
j the .universities you visited? Bctcha 
didnt. There arc none like these 
anywhere. We., are sorba distinc
tive in this matter even if they are 
yellow. Anyway, Fritz, were glad 
you are back and wje soon will 
liave a nice crop o'? yellow flowers 
for you to make yoUr yearly stock 
of home brew and you wont have 
to pay ten . cents a pint for it, 
either.* * * * *
Yes, we have a new limb of the 
law roaming around the campus 
these days. Glad to see you. Hope 
you fix our tags for us. I tell you 
that spiffy uniform should make 
an appeal in any society. Things 
are sorta looking up for us now 
that we have someone to patrol the 
beat. The dorms, will have to sit 
up and take notice. I'll . bet Mr. 
Manson is green with joy at seeing 
this new beau brummel parading 
about. Ill ask him the next time 
I am over his way and will let you 
in on the secret.* * * * *
I suppose you arc satisfied - with 
your grades made during the first 
semester. If you arent, well, you 
will have to see somebody with 
,more power than I have. I aril 
sorry that I cant argue your case. 
I had five of my own to argue and 
failed in each instance. It didnt 
' take long this time to get the 
news out. The system' is certainly
D/D/A NOTICE
THAT the long distance cham
pions were found. Congratula
tions boys, you have my sinccre 
admiration.
THAT the short vacation we 
had over the week-end between 
semesters (?) put new life into 
some people.
THAT the light fixtures over 
.tHe entrance to the Arts School 
arc certainly out of harm'onjr with 
the surroundings. Hope some 
brave soul steals it.
THAT Fritz is back on the 
job with his nice lies and more 
liesbetter look out for jay 
walking on the lawns.
THAT after this week, all will 
be quiet on the social front for 
some time to come, unless some
thing new . comes up UhUh 
that sigh of relief came from the 
social committee.
THAT this column is getting 
to be a regular squakers para
dise. Got any pet peeves? Send 
em in* mates.
THAT giving explosive cigar
ettes, to girls is a low brow trick 
that some morons seem to en
joy.
THAT some people are as 
slow as molasses in January when 
making ticket returns.
THAT thats that and Ill be 
scenya! ,
PASSING OF THE UNION
In a dark and dreary elevation 
stands the once bright and chcerful Union. Gone are the-' sounds which 
once gladdened the hearts of the 
thousands of happy students who 
listened to the lure of the melodious 
strains from the famous orchestras 
which year in and year out played 
for the many functions held there. 
Silent, shall we say never again to 
resound to the strains of the har
monious blending ' of the sax and 
flute, or is it just a temporary cessa
tion of activities?
We miss the many groups who 
gleefully wended their way up the 
cozy stairway to join in the mirth 
which would of an evening give place 
to the exacting requirements of a 
class room recitation or a laboratory 
lecture. We pine for the sight of 
the gayly gowned co-eds and the 
sleek ] escorts which made up the 
famous parties of yore. In vain do 
we listen for a luring melody echo
ing and e-echoihg through the corridors of the lower floors.
A silent figure sits nightly .com
muning With his thoughts of. the 
numerous occasions when ' lie made 
the rounds to see that everything 
was in order after a function had 
been held. He, too, misses those 
gatherings, for who could take an 
active part and not feel' their loss?
A new love, has sprung up on the 
campus and the gay and carefree 
groups arc flocking to her beck and 
call. Thistle Hall, for such is the 
name bestowed upon the new arrival, 
has many charms to guile away the 
fond affection held for dear old 
Union, but time and memory cannot 
be so easily effaced and happy 
thoughts of older days will linger 
long in assuaging the sorrow caused 
by the passing of the Union.
Sympathy
Deepest sympathy is extended 
to the . relatives and friends of 
Miss. Nettie Pratt, whose sudden 
death recently ended her studies 
in the Department of Painting 
and Decoration, where she had 
been a night student for several 
years.
improved. ' Why, you1 hardly took 
the exam until the marks were -in 
the mail. Thats, progress and I 
dont mean maybe.
Forbes National Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLANDPITTSBURGH
OFFICERS
PAUL C. EDMUNDSON-...
....................Vice President and Cashier..........................................Assistant Cashier
........_..!.............................Assistant Cashier
..........................................Assistant Cashier
.....................................................Trust Officer
BOARD OF
THOMAS S. BAKER 
President Carnegie Institute of 
Technology
JAMES M. BOVARD 
Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys
JOHN G. BOWMAN Chancellor University of Pittsburgh 
JOHN F. CASEY 
President John. F. Cfisey Co.
ELMER E. COLL 
President National Union Firo Insurance Company
A. REX FLINN 
President Booth & Flinn Company 
HOWARD M. JOHNSON Auditor Ligonier Valley Railroad
DIRECTORS
HERBERT A. MAY 
Vice President Union Drawn Steel Company 
THOMAS H. McCANDLESS 
Vice President and Cashier 
RICHARD K. MELLON President; Director 
Mellon National Bank 
WILLIAM S. MOORHEAD Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS Real Estate 
ALAN M. SCAIFE Vice President Wm. B. Scaife 
& Sons Company 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN 
Director Mellon Institute of Industrial 
Research
POPULARITY
During one's lifetime we meet peo^ 
pie who enkindle^ in us an immediate 
admiration and lfkc, a complete trust 
and a constant desire for their com
pany. In like manner we meet other 
people who cause us to dislike them 
from the very first contact; there is 
something about them which does not 
inspire trust, and we constantly wish 
to avoid their company. Thus it is 
that the problem of being popular 
is a tri'ing one to solve.
A girl doesnt have to be beautiful 
or a man a rival of Adonis in order 
to be well liked. It is much more im
portant that one have good mamiers 
and good breeding, than be a famous 
beauty or a fashion plate. One should 
make a good appearance with the 
facilities at their disposal, for it is 
possible to be dressed in a plain un
obtrusive way and still attract with
out those flashy, showy clothes which 
cry out from afar.
Good breeding is a very important 
factor in our being well liked. Those 
little things that we practice constant
ly, little niceties which we do not 
think are of much importance, jret 
which have inestimable value in the 
estimation of others, particularly if 
done in a natural and unostentatious 
manner. It is these things which 
stamp a person as being well bred.
Intelligence is another factor in 
making a social front. Especially so 
is this true in conversation. How 
often have we been drawn into a 
conversation only to find that wre 
were completely ignorant of the sub
ject under discussion. One should be 
very careful not to say things that 
will cause trouble or hard feelings. 
To know what to say and when to 
say it requires the exercise of con
siderable intelligence for many a 
person has been guilty of complete 
ignorance of eVen the most simple 
rules of conversation. Intelligence 
does not mean that one has com
pletely mastered a subject from a 
book or is able to quote rules and 
formulae without number, rather, it 
does mean that having studied, a 
broadening process has taken place 
within ones being that makes us 
recognize that perhaps the other fel
low may be right also. We can show 
intelligence by being good listeners 
try it, you will be surprised at the 
impression you will create.
Kindness-aricT courtesyhow often 
have we been guilty of sins on this 
score? Many a. little favor or kind 
act has been neglected which, if per
formed, would have created a differ
ent opinion of us. by others. To be 
kind ,and courteous is the essence of 
a truly liked person. A kind act may 
right a wrong opinion that some
one has of us, and many, many times 
this act costs us nothing, but think
NIGHT THISTLE 
STAFF APPOINTED
J. F. Simpson, Night Editor; 
C. E. Blochinger, Night 
Business Manager
The night section in the Thistle, 
the Carnegie annual, will be in 
charge of J. F. Simpson, Night 
Editor, and C. E. Blochinger, Night 
Business Manager.
A schedule for class group pic
tures is being arranged for the week 
of February 29 and will be an
nounced in the class. rooms and in 
the Tartan next week. All these 
class group pictures will be taken in 
the Union, and the night classes 
are urged to report at the appointed 
time at the Union so that there will 
be no confusion. The staff is count
ing on the co-operation of the night 
student body to help it make these 
group pictures successful.
Night students who are expecting 
to finish their courses this year 
should get in touch with their in
structors , to make sure that all re
quirements are met. They should .also 
send in their names to' the Night 
Thistle Staff, Night Student Council, 
Box 137, C. I. T:, giving the course 
they are registered in. Sittings for 
individual pictures will be arranged 
as soon as possible so as to make 
this years Thistle a complete his
tory of the night group.
of the value which is received in re
turn;
A person to be well like must also 
have poise. The really cultured per
son knows how to carry himself 
well in a group. There is a mag
netic attraction towards a person who 
can carry himself well when coming 
into a room or engaging in a con
versation with others. To be able to 
speak intelligently and entertainingly 
with every one looking- at you shows 
that ones poise is highly developed. 
Self-consciousness is a drawback 
which should . be eradicated at. the 
earliest possible time and one should 
lose himself to the group into which 
he is thrown.
A college course should be so 
planned that the training received 
would  fit /us to carry ourselves well 
at all times. We should always strive 
to improve our minds and social 
capabilities." Wfc- re dependent upon 
our fellow beings for our very ex
istence and unless we give due con-, 
sidration to our actions towards 
others, we will not get the most out 
of life.
Keep a Regular
TELEPHONEDate with Home
FOR CHRISTMASwhat Could 
be better! Nothing, of course, 
except more of it and oftener. 
Then why wait for holidays to visit Mother 
and Dad? Reach them tonight by telephone 
its next best to seeing them.
Thousands of college men go home each 
week by telephone. Thats one date theyd 
never cut! Try it yourselfyoull soon see 
why. For a lasting pleasure you cant beat a 
voice visit. And if it gives you a kick, think 
of the thrill it gives the home-folks I
FOR THE LOWEST COST 
AND GREATEST EASE
Set your "date for after 8.30 P. M. and take ad
vantage of the low Night Rates. (A dollar call is 
60c at night; a 50c call is 35c.)
By making a date the folks will be at home. Thus 
you can make a Station to Station call rather 
than a more expensive Pcrson-to Person call.
Just give the operator your home telephone num
ber. If you ljke, charges can be reversed.
3g5
2 : Il
Why Closing of Hut 
During Registration?
During the past several nights the 
lights have been darkened in the 
campus library commonly called the 
"Iiut, for want of a' better name no 
doubt. It is a problem to me to know 
why the Hut", is closed in the eve
nings during the registration time 
for the day students. The night stu
dents frequently have assignments 
which necessitate their -going to the 
"Hut for reference but it is im
possible to go there since the place 
is closed.
Perhaps an investigation will dis
close that there is need for the 
"Hut being kept open at nights 
throughout the night term. Whatever 
can be developed along this line will, 
I am sure, repay the effort neces
sary to make a survey of the situa
tion.
____________________; T.E.M.
makers, it seems reasonable to be
lieve that there is sufficient power 
behind the opposition to prevent the 
legalization of liquor'for some time 
to come.
McG.
USED BOOKS
At theStudent Book Exchange
In the Skibo Inn 
From JA to J/a Off 
5100 WOODLAWN AVE. 
Winston Dictionaries
A
C.S. EDMAN
Printer
6470 Monitor Street 
A
,CAMPUS MUSINGS
First Church of Christ 
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGHSUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening Testimony Mooting At 8:00 P. M.
Bridge fever has gripped the Tech 
Campus, and its victims arc num
bered in every college. The regula
tion card tables that always lend a 
dignity to the game arc no longer 
necessary, since any convenient or in
convenient place is suitable when the 
victims feel a rubber coming, let it 
be the marble stairs of the Arts 
school, the large oaken tables on its 
mezzanine floors, the dining tables of 
Skibo Inn, or the wooden bleachers 
of the gymnasium. It is rumored 
that the superiority of the new C. 
I. T. System (really an old one taken 
from some other gym) over the 
Culbertsonian System is to be de
cided soon, all of which brings to 
mind the statement of a mid-western 
college professor, that "to play 
bridge docs not require brains.
However, we still contend that 
bridge is a relatively peaceful form 
of di-ersion if the couples arc not 
married, in which event (if modern 
tradition  is strictly adhered to) a 
game should wind up in the divorce 
courts.
The first Night Arts Dance re
cently held at Thistle Hall was some
thing to remember, and any night 
Arts student who*missed it has only 
himself to blame.' Wished they held 
them more often.
"No-Smoking signs in the Arts 
school mean just the. opposite to 
students, they are completely ignored, 
and as usual, girls constitute the 
greatest majority of those who do 
not believe in signs.
Judgment of the works of night 
Arts students for the first semester 
has been concludcd by the faculty, 
as the result, an exhibition of their 
best drawings and paintings arc dis
played on the walls of the P. and 
D. corridor. We feel that any art 
critic would speak of them in en
couraging terms.
Although night students had noth
ing to say about the naming of 
beautiful little Thistle Hall, a former 
night Arts student was nevertheless 
responsible for this appropriate name.
ALSO ACCESSORIES
ED. SCHWERIN
606 STATE-THEATRE BLDG.
Phone Atlantic 2870
-TUXEDOSRented 
At Low Price
Night Student Council 
Activities Scholarship 
Awards Made
The Night Student Council Activi
ties Scholarships for the year 1930- 
31 were awarded to Alexander J. 
Lois, Henry A. Schwartz, and Wil
liam E. Paolicelli.
In order to stimulate interest in 
the extra-curricula activities of the 
night students, the Night Student 
Council offers as an additional .award 
three scholarships each year, one for 
each college, to a student, in -the 
particular college who has shown 
interest in the activities as well as 
the course of studies which he is 
pursuing. Every student is - on an 
even basis when, being considered for 
this award and his records are the 
determining factor in the selection.
It has been demonstrated beyond a 
doubt that night students can suc
cessfully support and participate in 
the activities offered by the Night 
Student Council and also carry on 
their studies.
The recipients of the jiwarcls for 
the year 1930-31 have been active on 
the campus, both in their individual 
colleges affairs and the more im
portant affairs of the Night Student 
Council. Mr. Lois is registered in 
the Electrical Engineering Course, 
Night College of Engineering; Mr. 
Schwartz is registered in the Archi
tectural Department of the Night 
College of Fine Arts, and Mr. 
Paolicelli is registered in the Me
chanical Drafting Course, Night Col
lege of Industries.
The Plaid takes this occasion to 
congratulate these, three night stu
dents .upon their receiving the awards 
from the Council for their, interest 
in the work on the night campus 
activities.
Liquor and Taxation
Some criticism has been directed at 
the Hoovcr-Mcllon tax program be
cause of the fact that a potential 
large source of revenue has not even 
been considered. Some editors feel 
that it would not be amiss for the 
Government tb get its share of the 
large profits which arc now being 
absorbed by the "racket. It is esti
mated that from two to four billion 
dollars are spent yearly for liquor 
of various sorts. This enormous sum 
is, quite naturally untaxablc. Of 
course, some of it unofficially finds 
its way into the pockct of the law
makers, and the enforcers of the 
noble experiment,  but officially, 
"there arc no Alps as far as the 
prohibition question is concerned.
In other words, there is, theoreti
cally,' no liquor industry. Practically, 
however, there is, and if the Govern
ment would do the perfectly obvious 
thing and recognize the bootlegger 
as a legitimate business man, taxa
tion of his income from the present 
illegal sale of booze would follow.
However, the editors, in advancing 
these views overlook that fact that 
many righteous (so-called) men who 
are intrusted with the running of the 
public affairs feel tlut Governmental 
taxation of a recognized liquor indus
try would stop their source of revenue 
in the form of slush, and conse
quently would rather increase the taxburdcn of the innocent, legal busi
ness man than stop the illegal traf
fic in liquor which is increasing their 
stock of wealth and power. Conse
quently, if left purely to the law---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1932.
PIONE MAYFLOWER 2C00 
AFTER OFFICE HOUR CALL
Editor In Chief...Busin** Mnnngcr   .........IInr.nl 0473Plnld Editor ......................................SHonloy 2380
Iubllnhcd one every week during the LhfLpg yenr by undergrmluntcn of CurneKic Institute of Technology. Entered in tho Pittsburgh Pont Office an itccond-clnna rnnttcr.
THE STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF____
BUSINESS MANAGERMANAGING EDITOR
PLAID EDITOR_______
NEWS EDITOR_______
Harry D. Kolb 
Edward Steiner 
Mary Hauser
EXCHANGE EDITOR-Edward E. McDonald
__________Nancy Sloan
______Gertrude. Novak
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Vincent McBridc Zorelda MazzaAssignment Editor_iIoward Maxwell
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Roy Grant Betty PrcllcrJulius Halpern Dolly AllisonJohn Gindcr Ruth PhillipsHarry Howcr Henrietta SteinbergJohn Ladd Christine LeighouMarjorie DoughertyAlumni Editor----.Mary Townsend
Cartoonist ______Edna Pearson
BUSINESS STAFF 
Junior Managers {
Assistant_______ ___~W. Waldman
CIRCULATION STAFFManager-----------------W. Finglass
A. Prycc-Joncs . S. Feldman C. Chadwick J. Michclson E. Schleuskner
ATHLETICS
Editor ____________J- MichaelsonWomans Editor__Elizabeth LillcyJ. Bronson G. Myers J. Lowes i. HalfcrtyAssistantsPLAID STAFF
News Editor_______J. H. SansonettiH. E. McGannon Frank CasselA. N. Evans
REPORTERS
J. Hiltz J. Drury S. Dancoff J. Adams E. Stankey I. Williamson 
A. Hen/.i J. Carr J, Livingston 
V. Kloos V. Cooper T. ShelleyG. BreakstoneH. Schwarz E. GambleJ. S. Minnotte L. Conlin
R. Saxton J. Ritzel E. McCormick G. Rose S. Williams M. Griffin E. Sherman J. Henderson P. Paulus T. Cacchione M. MalakoffA. Cam valeB. MorcheadC. Mandross B. Cimmuto R. CohenA. Ladd
TYPISTS
Sylvia Lyons Ann WardenLucille Jacobs _ Ann KaufmanMarian McNary
These Sunday Blue Laws
'Sunday night in Pittsburgh.
To the collegiate world in a state like Pennsylvania, 
which is still experiencing strict blue laws, what does Sun
day night, mean? To some it is a night of study, to some 
a time for rest, yet to many it is a time for diversion and 
entertainment. Students are human after all and a repre
sentative group will be cosmopolitan in outlook.
Those who prefer to utilize Sunday night for study 
find that their normal reference arid reading rooms in the 
cainpus library arc closed. A great many opportunities 
for .profitable study are lost thereby.
There are practically as many dates'' on Sunday night 
as anv other night of the week-end. Carnegies well filled 
social calendar leaves but little interest in dancing by Sun
day night. The occasion suggests theatrical amusements 
as a more formal diversion. But, except for, the few that 
gain admittance to the entertainment at private clubs that 
night, the remainder feel the touch of Pennsylvania's 
antiquated blue laws and the theaters remain dark.
To what .may the Carnegie students turn for Sunday 
nigl^t,, entertajnment? Some .find their way to churches 
and musical .recitals, but even these fill only the early part 
of the evening. The others who seek "dates may head 
for jhe parl^, secure an undisturbed corner in a fraternity 
Mac, or seek the, only center of organized activity that 
nightthe popular speakeasy resorts. The colleges in the 
small io)Vns where.they Have no speakeasies are at a dis
advantage for, the greatest problems in morals arise in a 
situation 'where individuals must rely solely upon each oth
er for entertainment.
I during a greater ill with a lesser is never the sbcst 
solution, .Releasing the normal amusements now closed by 
blue la>yH, -would permit a healthier outlet for emotions. 
.Repeal of moral legislation is rarely possible. What is 
needed is spontaneous rejection of the blue laws and some 
farseeing jurists to render the laws harmless,K.
* * * ( * ii<
Another Boxing Match
Saturday night the Bucknell boxing match in the 
Gymnasium will permit the senior group, who sponsored 
formal attire at the initial boxing campus last month, an 
opportunity, to see whether this custom is to become per
manent. The excellent turnout at the West Virginia match 
proved the popularity of the sport. The large number that 
'dressed* for the occasion made it a pleasing spectacle.
* * * * !|<
A Rare and Unusual Opportunity
Next Monday evening one of the foremost exponents 
of the modern dance will be presented in recital at the 
Music Hall by the Womens Scholarship Organization. 
The appearance of Angtia Enters, in Pittsburgh is an artis
tic event of unusual importance and rare pleasure, for to
see and hear her is a delight to even the most jaded critics
of New York and Paris.
This presentation of Miss Enters marks the culmina
tion of perhaps the most worth while movement on this 
campusthe . Womens Scholarship Organization. Their 
annual benefit is the embodiment of a plafi conceived when 
students manifested a desire to help other less fortunate 
students obtain an education. It irivolves tremendous re
sponsibilities and risks upon the part of an undergraduate 
group of women, who are giving generously of their time 
and .energy that it may be a success.
Friends of the school and alumni are responding whole
heartedly to their, appeal, but studentswithout whose aid 
the affair must necessarily failremain apathetic. Their 
support is neededotherwise the benefit .fails completely in 
its. double purpose of serving a worthy cause and providing 
Carnegie Tech students with the opportunity to see and 
hear this amazing phenomenon of beauty.
H.* * * * *
The Art Exhibits
Atr the present time there are three excellent exhibi
tions of art being presented to the public at the Carnegie 
Institute which are worthy of college students considera
tion. Unlike the renowned International Art Exhibit, these 
collections have not received an equivalent amount of pub
licity, although in the opinion of many art critics they arc 
fully as meritorious.
Several of the paintings of the Associated Artists 
Exhibition will be of special interest to Carnegie students, 
for they arc transcriptions of nearby scenes. Among those 
arc John Kanes Panther Hollow, the painting of Schenley 
Park and the Cathedral of Learning by Eleanor Simms 
Black, and A. H. Benrictfs portrait of the Phipps Con
servatory in abundant bloom. . Especially arc we proud of 
the fact that of the 407 paintings of this exhibition, 253 
are works of past and present students and faculty mem
bers, among whom are Messrs. Dowden, Hilton, Hyde, 
MacGilvary, Readio, Warner, and Mrs. Edmonds of the 
Department of Painting and Decorating, and Messrs. 
Schmertz and Wingold of the Department of Architecture.
These exhibitions will continue for several more weeks, 
and it will behoove all Carnegie students interested in art 
to visit the galleries. G.
FROM THE FENCE
Gentlemen, Be Seated!
it is reported that there was a,complete sell-out to Max Schocns Social Philosophy class. When the 
class started all the seats were filled and there were fully a dozen pupils standing. One of those standing was a girl, let us say a lady. Do you think any of the gentlemen (?) scaled would offer her his chair? No! Such an incident is a disgrace. to the men of Tech as a whole. T h c same type of guys that would push baby carriages over and take candy froma kid. Sounds like the gag about the man who had twin sons, one a Tech gentleman, the other a Pitt ruffian, and he still couldn't tell them apart. ... In other department with about ten registered in a certain course one showed up for the first class and three for the second class. ...* * * *
Last RegistrationWhee!
Well, thats over for the last time. Now that they have eliminated chasing from building .to building in the process of registration why can't they add some shock troops so .'that it wouldn't take so long to get through the class coupon line and the registration line? It seems rather inefficient to have to spend several hours standing in line waiting to do the filling out of schedules and coupons and to register. The time spent really doing something amounts to about half an hour. . . . * * * * j
Prom Puppet
Fortunately the Puppet- came out on Registration Day so one could peruse a Puppet while standing in line. We must say .that the covers of late have been quite an improvement over last years. Good exchanges this time and rather good local stuff. We still think that the Puppet could take some valuable pointers from several of; their exchange magazines. Author of "An Excerpt from a Diary must live in Crafton. La Zarns fodder gagtakes the cake. . . .* * .* *
Pi D. E. Tea Dance
The Pi Dells gave a rather pleasant dansant as a let down after registration. One of the dapper M. M. instructors, Mr. J. Cutler Andrews to you, was there meeting his pupils informally. Of course Mr. Nutter was present. The Barnharts wrere thebusiest pair on the floor. Baushke led' McGeorgt'sband as usual but was minus the trick coat. . . .* * * *
So This Was Allegheny?----
It just goes' to show that you can't never, tell. Compare all the victories and defeats that basket
ball teams reap, draw up all the prophecies you want, and then throw them in the wastebasket and the result will be right nine times out of ten. Thus Tech defeated Allegheny who had licked this and that team that had licked Tech. We don't think cither team deserved to win. . . . The majority of the Physics department arrived in time-to see the last, two minutes of play and hand out a few caustic comments. . . . Willie Ryshanck has about as good a band as has played here! The Mechanical department was prominent by the presence of L. H. Clarkson and C. L. Jones. Mister James Corrir gan did the honors and escorted the dean home.. . . Many prominent campus lights were conspicuous by their absence from the dance. . . .
* * * *
Snatches
More fun with most everyone knocked out by the flu." At 'the Prom we heard a rumor that the second" semester was to be postponed a week because of the prevalence of sickness but no such luck. . . . We hear that Fletcher Henderson will hold forth at the Intcrfraternity. Thats nice but hope he isnt too hot too much of the time. We like slow music, too. . . . Didja know , that on the night of the Prom Husk OHare played near Jeannette, Pa., for 50c a person? . . . Hats off to Boyer, who very nicely smashed the A. A. U. 1,500yards backstroke mark. . . . The Tech chapter ofKappa Sigs won another cup for being the most sober group at the conclave last week-end. . . . Dont miss seeing Joe Cook. The same for Geore Arliss in "The Man Who Played God.
* * * *
With the Girls
We hear that Carnegie has come to the inevitable and will soon inaugurate smoking rooms in the girls dorms. Well, at least they wont have to be.forever ducking out for a walk to get those all important occa
sional drags and it will eliminate council offenses for s-mokin g, maybe. ... As an echo from the famous Prom we just heard of the one that went from 
door to door iii the Fort Pitt asking if the room occupants wished to buy a good rowboat cheap. She must have forseen the flood. . . .
Such is Married Life!
It seems that a newly married Carnegie Tech Music student trumped her husbands ace in her first bridge game. Grounds for divorce so so.on? By the way, her husband is a sub senior archied. ; . .
Play ReviewTHE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL
By Elmkr Kjonyon 
"77k; School for Scandal" by Rich
ard Brinsley Sheridan. Alvin Thea
ter, zQeek of February 22, the fifth 
play in the subscription series booked 
by the Shuberts under the name of 
the Professional Players.
"The School for Scandal be
came a great success* in London 
during tlie life time of George 
Washington and 011  one of hif; 
visits to New York he set an ex
ample for discriminating playgoing 
not followed by our recent Presi
dents when he attended a per
formance of this wholly admirable 
comedy at the historic theater 011 
John street. The annals of the 
following 75 years reveal that the 
play for all its brittle wit of the 
drawing-room enjoyed popularity 
through the periods of pioneering 
expansion, when itinerant tlieaIrical troupes appeared tiridcr.great' 
difficulties in makeshift theaters, 
down to the palmy days of, the 
great actors of the seventies and 
eighties. It is, therefore, a play 
that has triumphed over time and 
circumstance and jt, happens to be 
the finest high comedy in our 
tongue: With .The Rivals and
She Stoops lo Conquer, it has 
the distinction of beaming radiantly 
down upon all comedy back to the 
time of Shakespeare and forward 
to the age dominated by Bernard 
Shaw. For this reason alone, it 
should be seen. When the world 
was not so tempted to novelty as 
it is today, the playgoer delighted 
in seeing it many times that lie 
might compare the modes of. vari
ous actors who essayed the famous 
roles. Indeed, not the least of the
virtues of Sheridans writing was 
his instinctive answer to the actors 
prayer for juicy parts to act.
What Miss "Barrymores produc-: 
tion will be like we do not know. 
That it should escape from the 
realism of current drama, that the 
speech should be marked by ele
gance, 'crispness and stylistic liarCarnegie Kate Says:
Tug of wars were once used to. 
determine whether the plebes or 
the sophomores would have the big
gest pull for the school year. ^Now 
fraternity politics decide that.
mony, that the grace in the  con
ventional deportment of the actors 
,should be to the manner born, that 
the business, of sly insinuation and 
facial by-play should be felicitously 
reminiscent of acting once frankly 
recognizing the theater as a world 
of artificial make-believe with sym
bols of its own coinageall these 
compose soniething^of the spirit of 
the eighteenth century Drury Lane, 
for which .stage the play was writ
ten. And written with much travail 
of spirit by a youth of 26, who, 
baffled by his problems with the 
plot,, was finally locked in a room 
in the theater by the managers 
until he should solve them. His 
manuscript, ended with the words, 
Finished at last, thank God! 
And the prompter spoke for pos
terity by adding, AmenI
Except for one William Maclay, 
senator from Pennsylvania in the 
early years of the last century, 
The School for Scandal"* has been 
admired by both the general pub
lic and the most exacting of critics. 
The senator, however, opined that 
it was an indecent representation 
before ladies of character and vir
tue.
Lady Teazle is not a new role 
for Miss Barrymore, for she ap
peared in it in the now almost 
mythical revival by the Players 
Club some seven or eight years 
ago, when Walter Hampden and 
Francis Wrilson, deans of the club, 
acted as servants to Sir Peter-and 
Lady Sneerwellthat will give a 
rough idea of the glamour of that 
cast. Strange to say. Miss Barry
more remembered her lines 011 the 
opening night, whereas her uncle, 
John Drew, forgot his.
CARNEGIE MEN
(Continued from Page. One) 
in the department of architecture, 
Bocchicchio a junior. Lissoto is a 
senior in sculpture.
The problem for the competitionwas an imaginery one for an En
trance and Lobby of a Radio Uni
versity. The Jury of Award for th.c 
competition comprised well - known 
professional men including Thomas 
Ii. Ellctt, C. Dale Badgelejr, C. 
Cameron Clark and Edgar I. Wil
liams, architects; George Davidson, 
A. Clemens Finley and Ezra Win
ters, painters, and C. Paul Jennewein, 
Joseph Iviselewski, Edmund R. 
Amateis and Paul Mqnship, sculptors.
One First Mention Placed, one 
First Mention, and three Mentions 
were awarded, respectively, to five 
Carnegie students who competed in 
the Beaux Arts judgment in Sculp
ture, held in. New York 011 February
Of the forty-five students -who 
competed, eighteen received places in 
the judgment. Raymond Barger, 32, 
was awarded one First Mention 
Place; Edith Barnes, spficial, re
ceived one First Mention, and Wil
liam McDermott, 32, Olga Ravitch, 
33, and Helen Meigs-, 34, were each 
awarded 011c Mention.
The problem assigned in the com
petition was for a mantlcpicce for 
an architects office, to be done in 
terra cotta.
Women's Glee Club
The Womans Glee Club, uiider the 
direction of Professor> Malcherek, 
will give a concert 011 Thursday at 
S:15 oclock at the Carnegie Metho
dist Episcopal Church.
FIRST SHOWING
OF
"Simpson College Clothes"
AT
SKIBO INN
THURSDAY FEBRUARY 25th 
New Low Price
$2000
Others at $23.50 - $29.50 - $34.50
MADE-TO-MEASURE-YOUR WAY
J. B. SIMPSON, Inc.
'COLLEGE TAILORS"
DOWNTOWN STORE 
241 FIFTH AVENUE THIRD FLOOR
PITTSBURGH
Representatives in Charge:Murph Wilson Lefty Levenson
USED BOOKS
AT THE
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
In the SKIBO INN  5100 WOODLAWN AVENUE 
From Ys to Off 
WINSTON DICTIONARIES
PROF. DAVIS TO LECTURE
(Continued from Page One) 
faqtry, he has been continually oc
cupied with languages and liter
ature. He has lectured at Harvard 
and was for a time a visiting pro
fessor at Sweet Briar College. Al
though his major publication is a 
collection called Traditional Bal
lads of Virginia, lie has contrib
uted many articles, reviews and 
verses to leading publications, in
cluding the Virginia Quarterly Re
view, the New England Quarterly, 
Musical Quarterly, English Jour
nal, Modern Language Notes and 
Oxford Magazine.
AGNA ENTERS
(Continued from Page One) 
be exchanged at the A'dministraHall, between February 24 and 
February 29. Prices will range 
from $2.50 for orchestra seats to 
50 cents for balcony seats.
The proceeds of this benefit will 
be used to provide scholarships for 
deserving candidates in Margaret 
Morrison and" Arts school. This is 
the only time of the year that the 
Womens Scholarship Organization 
asks for aid in order to further its 
.cause, and all students are urged 
to co-operate.
The following committee chair
men have been completing plans 
for the benefit: Advertising, Lois 
.McGregor; publicity, Mary Hauser; 
patronesses, Mary Stepliany; post
er, Elizabeth Phillips; campus tick
et sale, Gertrude Novak; alumnae 
ticket sale, Olivette Hartzfield, and 
faculty ticket sale, Frances Timms.
Citmas Club
The Citmas Club will hold a din
ner meeting on Februarj' 29 to pay 
tribute to George Washington, Master 
Mason. The dinner is scheduled for 
5:30 p. m. in the Carnegie Com
mons Annex. Students and faculty 
members Who are Master Masons are 
invited to' attend.' Tickets may be 
obtained at the Y.\M. C. A. office.
RISE OF RAW MATERIAL
(Continued from Page One) 
materials " and farm products by 
freeing frozen assets for new com
mercial activity. This form of re
lief totals about two billion which 
is a rather modest sum consider
ing the extent of deflation and the 
width price divergence.
If the Reconstruction Finance 
Corporation and the Credit Ex
pansion Bill now under consider
ation do not turn the trick, there 
still remains another avenue of 
price adjustment; i. c., a decline in 
the price of manufactured goods 
to meet the level of raw materials 
and farm products.
The business and banking fraternitjr, however, regard this type 
of adjustment as something more 
severe than a mere chiropractic 
tickling of the industrial spinal 
column. A lowering of the prices 
of manufactures means a major 
operation beset with grave peril 
for the patient. It would neces
sitate a reduction of fixed costs 
which w'ould in turn reduce com
mon dividends, preferred dividends, 
and interest payment on bonds.
At present under the stimulus of 
the proposed > Credit Expansion 
Bill, raw material prices have be
gun to rise which indicates the 
possibility of business revival with
out recourse to -widespread bank
ruptcy.
. . .AVENUE . . .
vOb, ra ak nag a a a 809 LIBERTY AVE.
,0 6 p- M- 35c to ii p. Ccc so
Germany's Best Opp. Post-Gazctte 
Week Com. Monday, Feb. 22nd 
The Outstanding Laughing German Film Comedy
DER WAHRE JAKOB
WITHFELIX BRESSART
The Famous German Comedian 
THE REAL JACOB
Easily the Funniest German Comedy Yet Brought to America 
Direct From a Sensational Six Weeks Run in New York 
A GREAT STAGE PLAYA GREAT TALKING PICTURE
INTERCOLLEGIATE CLIPS
- The name of the musical com
edy which the students at the 
UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI 
will present this . year is Tarts 
Arc Trump. Sounds nice, any
way.
To sponsor goodwill among the 
fraternities at SOUTHERN CALI
FORNIA, a schedule of inter
fraternity luncheon meetings has 
been arranged. One house will act 
as host to the upperclassmen of 
the another house. It is a good 
idea providing each fraternity has 
monogrammed silverware.
The first mixed swimming party 
ever held at MICHIGAN STATE 
UNIVERSITY w a s given last 
week. Besides swimming, deck 
tennis, volley ball, and dancing 
were offered in the gymnasium. 
The admission was 25 cent^ a couple.
Fifty dollars is the fine meted 
out to PENN STATE fraternities 
who hold dances on the samel 
night that a college dance i$ scheduled.
There is a sophomore at YALE 
who is paying most of his wayj 
through college by washing dogsi 
He claims there is a certain art] to it.
Did you ever feel a suppressed 
desire to discuss tooth-paste on 
favorite desserts with your profes-. 
sors? Well, some students atj 
NORTHWESTERN had such dc. 
sires so they formed a club with! 
the main purpose of holding in
formal discussion teas with memberj of the faculty.
Freshmen at the UNIVERSITY 
OF FLORIDA are required to can 
ter all classes through the win-v dows.
P. IDEN PAYNE
(Continued from Page One) 
characterizations. It has been per
formed many times in .England, 
and its success in America is 
established.. Though local in ^set
ting/ its intrinsic universality can
not be questioned. The charac
teristics of. the Hobson family, 
their practicality, hard hcadedness, 
and aggressiveness, are not indi
vidual to Hobson and inherited by 
his; daughters, as many believe, but 
are the leading traits of the Lan
cashire character. Thus it is Svell 
to remember that in* Hobsons 
Choice the. curtain is raised not 
merely on the interior of a little 
Salford shoe shop, but on a crosssection of that stratum defined in 
England as the lower middle class.
Maggie, the heroine, is the hardheaded daughter of a hard-headed 
father, the Salford shoemaker. 
After being in his service for 20 
years, she marries one, of his 
workmen, sets her husband up in 
business, and brings her father to 
terms by taking away his best 
trade.
In the Carnegie production, the 
part of Maggie will be taken by 
Elizabeth Drake and Helen Sisenwairi. Hobson will be played by 
Donn Bonnhoff and Thomas Gor
man. Others in the cast include: 
John Dawson, Emanuel Break
stone, Louis Goldsmith, McClellan
FULTON THURSDAY
CONNIE..//; supreme' 
.. the divine ...IN HER 
GREATEST LOVE STORY
t TauB etPiA PAiT i
Beyond all doubt her 
greatest... surpassing even 
BOUGHT for sheer 
k;romantic thrill! Ent 
riched by Hollywoods 
Vaunted Magic!
BEN LYON
DAVID MANNERS
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
OFFICERS
c. B. AYLESWORTHVice Pres.
R. J. MILLER----------------Vice Pres.
C. W. EHNI----------Asst. Vice Pres.
F. W. COTTON___Asst. Vice Pres.
O. C. YOUNG---------------Asst. Treas.
ADAM ROSCOE---------------Asst. Sec.
BOARD OF ADVISERS
C. B. Aylcsworth 
James B. Clark 
John Dimling
Barney Dreyfuss
J. Rogers Flannery
L. H. Gethoefcr 
C. H. Kerr 
J. O. Miller 
R. J. Miller
John G. Pew
A. B. Sheets
REGISTRATION TOTALS
(Continued from Page One)
40; Junior, 65; Sophomore, 90; Short 
Course, 36, and Special, 7.
In the College of Fine Arts, the 
class ^ totals arc as follows: Senior, 
12 7j, Sub-Senior, 27; Junior, 79; 
Sophomore, . 146; Freshman, 132; 
Short Course, 7, and Special, 20.
The enrollment in Margaret Morris 
son Carnegie College is divided by 
classes as follows: Senior, 101;
Junior, 104; Sophomore, 89;. Fresh
man, 112, and Special, 17.
The figures show also that the 
College of Engineering was the, only; 
school to record a .greater enrollment 
for this -semester than at the same 
time last year. All other schools 
showed . slight drops on the basis o 
the incomplete figures. The enroll-, 
ment in the School of Engineering 
rose from 592 to 653 for a gain o 
61.
Shinn, Walter Derdeyn, Herman 
Liverig-ht, Robert Gill, Helen' 
Hotham, Margery Lewine, Nancy; 
Hasenwinkle, Charlotte Rothrock^ 
Ella Haith, Dorothy Devlin and 
Edythe Tenney.
Miss Margaret Seibert,Box 124,Carnegie Institute of Technology:
Enclosed is my check for 
________________;_dollars, for
which please send meii 
tickets, on the----------------
I should like to sit as near as
possible to ----------------------:
Name -------------------------
Street. --------------------------------
City______________________
The pipe is not for 
pretty girls.
/ Here, MEN, 
smoke a 
mans smoke
A
 PIPEFUL of good tobacco is dis, tinctly a mans smoke. The 
women (long may they wave!) have 
taken over most 
of our masculine 
privileges. But 
pipe smoking still 
belongs to us.
In every walk 
of life youll find 
that the men at 
the top are pipe 
smokers. And most college men agree 
that the.pipe offers the rarest pleasures 
a man could ask of his smoking.
When you smoke a pipe, be sure 
you choose the tobacco that will give 
you the greatest 
enjoyment. In 42 
out of 54 colleges 
Edgeworth is the 
favorite. You can 
buy Edgeworth 
wherever good 
tobacco is sold.
Or for a special 
sample packet, 
write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d 
St., Richmond, Va. Sample is free.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old burleys, 
with its natural savor enhanced by Edge
worths distinctive 
and exdusive elev
enth process. Buy 
Edgeworth any
where in two forms 
Edge worth ReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice.
All sizes, pocket 
package to 1.50 
pound humidor tin.
Heres the smoke for 
men, a pipe and good 
( tobacco.
