VOL. XXVI, No. 18.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1932.
ANGNA ENTERS, FAMOUS M1MIST, WILL PERFORM AT SCHOLARSHiP BENEFIT IN CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
Ticket Sale Begins Today 
in Administration 
Building
PRICES $0.50 TO $2.50
Women to Add Proceeds 
to Scholarship 
Fund
The Womens Scholarship Or
ganization will present Angna En
ters at its annual benefit to be 
held Monday evening, February 29.
Miss Enters has met with great, 
favor in New York, London, and 
Paris because of her unusual and 
versatile compositions. She not 
only creates her own dance- num
bers but also designs costumes to 
enhance their effectiveness. She is 
better known on the European 
stage and the Eastern coast than 
in Pittsburgh, but according to 
Louis XJntcrmcycr, well-k*.n o w 11 
critic, "her appearance is an event 
of great theatrical impqrtance in 
any city.
Invitations to serve as patrons 
and patronesses have been accepted 
by Mrs. Alfred E. Hunt, Mrs. 
Stewart Toole, George S. Shears, 
Mrs. William Watson Smith, Mrs.
J. S. Bradley, Mrs. G. H. Taber, 
Mrs. Jesse C. Stewart, Mrs. 
Charles Ii. Spencer, Mrs. William 
Scott, Mrs. John S. Craig, Dean 
Mary Watson Green, A. P. Burch
field, Mrs. Harvey Chields, Mrs. 
,R. V. Nessler, Mrs. Samuel Har
den Church, Mrs. George Claypole,
, and Miss Martha A. Jameson.
Tickets will go ' on sale today 
and tomorrow in the Administra
tion Hall. From Thursday, Feb
ruary 18, to Friday, February 26, 
'tickets will be sold 111 Arts and 
/ Margaret Morrison College as well 
as in the Administration building. 
On Monday, February 29, tickets 
will be sold in the Administration 
building only. These tickets must 
be exchanged at the Administration 
Hall between February 24 and 
February 29. The prices will range 
from $2.50 for orchestra seats to 
50 cents for balcony scats.
(Continued 011 Page Four)
Dr. Sherry Will
Talk On Lourdes
On Friday, February 19, Dr. 
Michael Sherry, of Lourdes, Francc, 
will lecture on "The Cure oi 
Lourdes at Synod Hall, on North 
Craig street, at S oclock. Th' 
lecture, which is given under tli 
auspices of the Newman Club and 
its alumni association, the Univer
sity Catholic Club, is free and 
open to the public.
Dr. Sherry has been affiliated 
with the Medical Bureau of 
Lourdes since 1928. He has bee: 
interested in the Shrine there since 
^,1905. At the present time, Dr. 
' Sherry is making a lecture tour of 
jtlie United States, presenting the
Committee Engages First 
Floor of Schenley 
Hotel
ifacts concerning the Shrine and 
the numerous cures affected there; 
n\any of which he has witnessed.
!,Dr. Sherry is a native of Dub
lin, Ireland, and is president oi 
thS Irish Society of Brangardiers 
and! Handmaids of Our Lady of 
Loilrdes. During the war he served 
as la physician in France. He 
carrlics testimonials from His 
Graie, the Archbishop of Dublin 
and *1 from the Bishop of Lourdes, 
His ^Eminence, Cardinal MacRory
Indian Discusses
\ Gandhi and India
Mahatma GandhiIndias Prob-Ujn.y will be the subject of a talk 
toxbe given by Dr. Jean Warliker, 
descendant of the princely clan of 
Scesodia, India, to members of tin 
Westinghouse Chib, Wilkinsburg, 
at 8:15 p. m., Thursday, February 
18. An admission price of $1 
person will be charged.Dr. Warliker will discuss the 
domination of the Indian race by 
Great Britain and will explain 
Mahatma Qamlhis advocacy of 
dominion status for India.
Born in India of Hindoo pat
ents, Dr. Warliker was educated 
in England by private tutors am 
by the best academic institution 
of London, from which lie gradu
ated with high degrees in ;(rt and 
in law. During his studies in Eng 
land, he adopted their ideal 
thoughts, and outlook upon life, 
He also accepted the Clirsiti 
faith.For the past several years D1 
Warliker has been traveling 
India and studying their condi
tions, customs, philosophy and 
ligion. His background, broadened 
by education and world travel, has th
CHAIRMAN
Tech, Pitt and Duquesne
Sponsor News Broadcasts
Starting last night Carnegie 
news events are being broadcast 
weekly over the local radio sta
tion, WWSW. The broadcast is 
under the direction of the Tartan 
and the announcements will be 
made by Harry D. Kolb, 32, the 
Editor-in-chief of the Carnegie 
paper.
The program is scheduled at 
5:45 every Monday evening and 
will include news flashes . from 
the campus and from the issue 
of the/Tartan which appears the 
following day at noon. Similar 
programs on Wednesday and 
Saturday nights are being ar
ranged by the Duquesne Duke, 
and Pitt Weekly, the newspapers 
011 the other two campuses in the 
city. Persons having items of in
terest for broadcasting should communicate to the editor through 
the Tartan.
BASKETBALL DANCE NEXT 
SAT., FEB. 20
Members of Allegheny and 
Carnegie Squads Will 
Be Guests
WILL START AT 9 O'CLOCK
Y. M. CABINET TO ENTERTAIN NEW PLEBES
Second Semester Entrants 
Will Be Feted 
By Cabinet
DATE NOT SELECTED
Thistle Hall Will -Be 
Scene of Event; 
Price, $1.00
ILLNESSES SHOW 
LARGE INCREASE
Ruth Brooks
NTER-FRTERNITY 
FORMAL MAR. 4
Dr. Marks Gives Helpful Sug
gestions to Stop 
Colds
The Inter-fraternity Formal, the 
annual dance given under the aus
pices of the Inter-fraternity Coun
cil, will be held this year at the 
Schenley Hotel on March 4. The 
committee has arranged- for every
thing' except the orchestra.
George M. ICountz who has 
charge of securing the orchestra 
for the dance has narrowed the 
prospects down to three: Isham
Jones, Bernie Cummings, and 
Fletcher Henderson. All. of these 
orchestras arc nationally known 
d the committee is assured of 
engaging one of them.
Because of the existing financial 
conditions the committee has done 
everything to reduce the expenses 
attached to the dance. The Schenlcy Hotel was* engaged to reduce 
transportation costs and io insure 
adequate parking facilities.
In keeping with their economical 
policy the committee has reduced 
the price of the dance from $5, 
which was the price last year,
$4. Despite this very low price 
favors, which have already been 
selected, will be 'distributed at the 
dance.
Dancing, as u*sual, will continue 
from 9 to 2, after which most of 
the social fraternities will serve 
breakfasts at their respective 
houses. Girls residing in the dor
mitories will be given permission 
to stay out until 4:30 on this par
ticular morning.The committee in charge of the 
dance includes: R. C. Binder, Phi 
Kappa; G. M. Kountz, Phi Kappa 
Psi; I. F. Kuhn, Delta Tau Delta 
W. O. Clinedinst, Kappa Sigma 
and L. M. Worley, Pi Kappa 
Alpha.
There has been a large increase 
in student illnesses and absences 
during the last few weeks despite 
the fact that there arc usually few 
absences before or during the final 
examination period. The majority 
of the absences are due to the 
epidemic of colds which originated 
in England several months ago and 
has since been transported to 
Pittsburgh and other parts of the 
country.
During-the last week of January 
and the first week of February, 
there was an average of 208 Car
negie students sick per week, an 
increase of more than a hundred 
over the corresponding period last 
month. In the first week'of Feb
ruary alone there were 224 stu
dents ill.
There has also been a large in
crease in the number of students 
confined to the dormitory infirmaDuring the month of Janu 
ary there were 23 men in the mens 
infirmary in McGill Hall and 1 
girls in the womens infirmary in' 
Mrs. Kirk-Patricks home.
When Dr. W. L. Marks, mens 
physician was asked what was the 
best way to keep from gettting a 
cold, he gave a few warnings to 
be observed in a mild epidemic 
such as this is:
1. Try to keep the resistance and 
vitality at as high a level as 
possible.
2. If jrou have a cold, go to a 
doctor. Dont try to fight it off 
yourself.
3. Drink lots of water.
4. Stay away from all crowds, es
pecially dances and theaters.
5. Dont cough or sneeze near any
one and avoid people who already have a cqld.
be:
PLAN IS OFFERED 
FOR CAR PARKING
Tartan Reporters Notice
Assignments for the next Tartan 
will be issued today and Wednesday 
from 11:30 to 1:30 p. m., at the Tar
tan office. Telephone or report in 
person to receive the assignments.
Fritz, Returning From Vacation in 
Europe, Quotes Beer Prices Abroad
Once again the grass blades are 
happy, the willows are swaying with 
joy, and in their earthly beds the 
dandelions and weedy brethren are 
trembling in fear. Fritz is back! 
Fritz, the indomitable horticulturist 
of Carnegie and enemy of all tres
passing feet, has returned from a 
two-month ^European sojourn.
* * * *
The Tartan reporter, bent upon a 
pleasant interview, spied Fritz across 
the cut pruning a maple, and with a 
merry Hi, Fritz! took four steps 
across the grass in his direction. 
Three seconds later lie had very 
hastily retreated to the safetyv of the 
sidewalk, while a veritable madman 
rushed toward him, swinging a 
menacing pair of pruning shears 
above his head.
Get off that grass, get off that 
grass! the roar blasted out.
But I wanted to talk with, you," 
the reporter replied as Fritz.came to 
a puffing halt.The boss of the grass blades where
upon became quiesced and very con
genial. Taking the reporters arm lie 
escorted him protectively across the 
lawn to his tree ladder.
Now, how did you enjoy 3our 
trip?" was the first question put to 
him.
And he pulled out of a pocket 
kodak film showing him with a circle 
of girls on the shipall with a bot
tle of beer in their hands!
Further questioning revealed that 
Fritz had made his ocean voyage on 
the S.S. Bremen, leaving on Decem
ber 6. While in Germany he spent 
the principal portion of his vacation 
on the Rhine River visiting relations, 
Although it was not learned posi
tively that lie had kinsmen in all 
of these cities, here is a partial list 
of those metrQpolitans which lie visit' 
ed: Munster, Coberland, Osnabruk, 
Krcfeld, Essen, Coupe, apd Bow 
where he inspected the University of 
Bown.
As his concluding remark in th' 
interview, Fritz stated':
"Now, when you write that up, 
put lotsa lies in it."
Even though hundreds fear him, 
there arc many who arc welcoming 
Fritz back. All step carefully, how
ever, when there is danger of 
foot alighting on the lawn.
Nevertheless, Fritz may be a great 
man some day, for does not the 
Bible say that whosoever shall make 
two blades of grass to grow where
Dinner Will Be Held in 
Either Commons or 
Inn
Tea Dance Will Be Held
By Pi. D. E. Tomorrow
Pi Delta Epsilon, national 
journalistic honorary frater
nity, will hold its second tea 
dance of the year in Thistle 
Hall tomorrow afternoon from 
3 to 6 oclock. Admission will 
be at popular prices.
Jerry McGcorgcs ten-piece 
orchestra will furnish the music. 
The orchestra, under the lead
ership of Jereaux Baushke, will 
feature several interesting nov
elty numbers, among which 
will be a special arrangement 
of Home played by Jerry 
McGeorgcs trumpet trio.
Entrance to Thistle Hall 
may-be gained directly from 
the main gymnasium.
To climax what promises to be,| 
an exciting game between Car
negies and Allegheny basketball 
teams, a dance will be held in 
Carnegies new ballroom, Thistle 
Hall, from 9 to 12, next Saturday 
evening. Will Ryshanck and his 
orchestra will provide the music 
for the evening. Tickets for the 
dance will be sold for $1 a couple 
the entrance to tlifc hall. 
Although the basketball game 
may still be in progress after 9 
clock, the dance will open at the 
scheduled time. Persons going to 
the clance can use cither of two 
entrances to Thistle Hall, the one 
from the gymnasium or the one 
from the street located in the park 
rear of the gymnasium. In addi
tion to the dance hall the grrll 
room, lounge room, and smoking 
room will be opened for use.
Members of the Allegheny and 
Carnegie basketball squads and the 
head cheerleaders of both schools 
ill be invited to the dance. 
Chaperones for the evening will 
Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Blaisdcll, Mr, and Mrs. C. L. Jones, 
Mr. and Mrs. W. S. McKee, Mr. 
d Mrs: L. H. Clarkson, Mr. J. 
(Continued on Page Four)
Freshman who enter at the sec
ond semester will be entertained 
by the general cabinet at a dinner 
soon after the semester begins. 
The dinner will be very similar 
to the regular freshman dinner 
given each j^ear for the fall regis
trants, except on a smaller scale.
Since it is not possible to hold 
a freshman -week for the new 
registrants, the general cabinet will 
entertain and counsel them about 
things on the campus.
- The dinner will be held cither 
in the Commons or in the Inn, 
depending upon the number of 
new freshman. Like the fall 
dinner, it will be given gratis to 
the new freshman.Several members of the fresh 
man class, who have been chosen 
by the General Y Cabinet to 
serve on the Freshman Y. M. C. 
... Cabinet, have been notified to 
attend a meeting Wednesday, Feb
ruary 17, at 6 oclock in the Com
mons Annex. A complete list of 
the new cabinet members will be 
published in a later issue of the 
Tartan.The purpose of the meeting is 
to explain Y work to the new 
(Continued on Page Four)
Pittler to Conduct Class; 
Schedule Goldsand 
For Series
PLEBES VOTE IN 
M. M. C. C. FEB. 23
Tentative plans have been issued 
by the Department of Building 
and Grounds, which when com
pleted will_ provide parking room 
for four to five hundred cars^ The 
new plan is to set aside the space 
back of the womens' dormi
tories on Woodlawn Avenue and 
behind Engineering Hall for the 
exclusive use of students. The 
night traffic congestion, when there 
arc two or three events taking 
place, is a serious problem and 
has recently become worse. The 
new parking sites are to benefit 
the students directly.
Another constructive project of 
the department at the present time 
is the building of fire walls in the 
Margaret Morrison College as 
precautionary step against smoke 
spreading through the building in 
case of a fire in he field house.
HENRY HARRIS TO 
PRESENT RECITAL
Henry Harris, talented Pitts
burgh pianist, will give a concert 
tonight at 8:15 in the Little Thea
ter of the College of Fine Arts, 
under the sponsorship of Sigma 
Alpha Iota, honorary musical so 
ciety for women.
Mr. Harris studied piano with 
Fred Lissfelt, well-known music 
critic and instructor in Pittsburgli 
while attending Schenley Higli 
School. Following his graduation 
in 1929, he attended the Royal
Saxony Conservator}' of Music in 
Leipzig, Germany. In  December, 
1930, he made his debut, playing 
a Concerto by Tschaikowsky with 
the orchestra of the Conservatory 
After completing two years of 
study, he returned to Pittsburgh, 
where he made his first public ap
pearance in February, 1931, with
the Yost,Quartet.
Despite his youth, Mr. Harris 
recognized as a musician of great 
ability; and his recital should prove 
very enjoyable. The public is in
vited to attend; no cards, of ad
mission will be required. M 
Harris program is as follows:
Chaconne_____i---------Bach-Busoni
Pastorale Variee....................................Mozart
Papillons i------------------Schumann
Licbestod----------------Wagncr-Liszt
Intermission
Sonata in' B flat-----------
Minuet
Meditation 
Juggler 
-Cliopi
__Rav
-Kodaly 
___Toch
Must Pay Thistle Bills
The second semester election for 
freshman class officers in the
Margaret Morrison College will be 
held from 11:30 to 1:30, Tuesday, 
February 23. The voting pole will 
be located in the entrance hall of 
Margaret Morrison/ College.
The list of nominations for
freshman offices arc ' as follows 
President, Martha Dcmms, Jayne 
Henderson, Veronica Kloos; Vice 
President, Eleanor Sherman, Mary 
Wynne; Secretary, Virginia Cooper, 
Virginia Linn, - Virginia Moore, 
Thelma Shelly; Treasurer, Chris 
tine Chandler, Vera Marcus, Nancy 
McQuadc, Josephine Walsh, Mar
garet Watters; Social Chair
man, Margaret Anderson, M a rchie Barr, Betty Koch, Margaret 
Parsons, Helen Welfer.
The plurality system of voting 
will be used. In this, system the 
person receiving the highest in
dividual number of vot^s is elected, 
and in case of a vacancy the can
didate receiving the next highest 
number of votes succeeds to office.
Results of this election will be 
published in the Tartan.
"Oh, I enjoyed myzelf niz. Beer only one growcth before shall be 
vas ten cents pint on the ship and greater than the entire kingdom ofgJ-en him a deep insight into the vas ten cents pint on tne snip ana gre.uer uum 
 blems confronting India .today. I five cents hal-liter in .Germany. 1 politicians?
At the last meeting of the Stu
dent Council a motion was passed 
to the effect that all fraternities 
and other organizations should pay 
for their picture representation in 
the 1931 Thistle before March 15.
Those who have not paid their 
bill by that date will be refused 
representation ii the 1932 Thistle, families.
SIX ARCHITECTS 
RECEIVE AWARDS
The -latest Bulletin put out by 
the Beaux Arts in New York grv 
an account of how tHe Department 
of Architecture of Carnegie came 
out in competition with 35 other 
leading architectural schools and 
ateliers throughout the country in 
their last judgment. ' There were 
21 awards given in the competi
tion, of which -Carnegie received 
six, Columbia University eight, the 
University of Pennsylvania four, 
and three other schools each re
ceived one. The remaining 30 ol 
the schools and ^teliers, which are 
architectural schools not connected 
with a university but with an ar
chitects office, received no awards.
Those who received awards in 
CJarnegie are as follows: James
A\ Mitchell, W. R. James, C. J 
Kissling, H. E. Miller, S. J. Tauriello, and J. G. Watson. C. A Stoody, who is doing graduate 
work at Columbia University and 
(Continued . on page 4)
Student Writes Article
William I. Smith, a junior in the 
Mechanical Engineering Depart
ment, is the author of an article 
entitled Setting of the Automatic 
Valve, which appeared in the 
February 12 issue of the Gas Serv
ice Journal, a publication of the 
Pittsburgh Equitable Meter Co.
The article shows how certain 
formulae can be used in the set
ting of automatic valves. It is 
very detailed and technical.
Mr. Smith, whose home is in 
Washington, Pa.,, is the holder of 
a scholarship awarded by the Co
lumbia Gas & Electric Co. of 
Pittsburgh to employes and their
NSPACHER WILL 
LECTURE AT TP
Louis K. Anspacher and A. Z. 
Pittler will speak at the Y. M. & 
H. A. building on Bclleficld 
avenue this evening at 8:15. Mr. 
Anspacher will present the eighth 
Lccturc-Forum and Mr. Pittler 
ill address members of the Lead
ers Training Course, in the second 
lecture of the series.
Mr. Anspacher, distinguished 
dramatist, philosopher, and poet, 
will speak on The Mob and the 
Movies. He has been associated 
with the Civic Forum, the Leagii' 
for Political Education in New 
York, and the Brooklyn Institute 
f Arts and Sciences. He studied 
at the College of the City of New York 
and at Columbia University 
both the Graduate School' and the. 
Law School, majoring in philospliy, ethics and political scicncc.
At 8:15 in the lodge room, Mr. 
Pittler, director of the Jewish Big 
Brother Club in Pittsburgh, will 
discuss The Club in respect to 
ts origin, function, sociological and 
psychological elements. His lec
ture launches the Leaders Train 
ing Course series into a detailed 
study of four aspects of leaders 
work: principles of group. leader
ship, group and individual psychol
ogy, program making, and the 
community, its interests and activi
ties. After the second lecture, ten 
additional lectures will be present
ed. On February 23, Miss Helen 
Hart will speak on "The Girls' 
Club; March 1, James MacGowan, 
The Boys Club,' March 8, Rccrcational Aspect of the Club Pro
gram; March 15, "Educational 
Content of a Club Program 
March 22, Rabbi H-. Iiailpcrin, Re
ligious Content of a Club Program 
March 29, The Club Leader; 
April 5, Dr. Mohr, Behavior Prob
lems; April 12, Sidney Teller, 
The Settlement; April 19, 
Passamaneck, Community Center 
Movement, and April 26, Dr. Lud(Continued on Page Four)
Alumnus is III
ROXY, NEW YORK THEATRICAL DIRECTOR, WILL SPEAK BEFORE 
STUDENTS AT ASSEMBLY, FEB. 23
ASSEMBLY SPEAKERMr. Rothafel Has Interest
ing Experiences in Radio 
Broadcasting
Samuel L. Rothafel
SORORITY FORMAL 
WILL BE FEB. 26
Dance Will Be Held At Pitts
burgh Country 
Club
The Inter-Sorority Formal, which 
will be held on Friday evening, 
February 26, at the Pittsburgli 
Country Club, Beechwood boule
vard, is the first social event of 
the second semester of the school 
year. Jack Bruces orchestra will 
play from 9 until 1 at the formal 
which will be in the form of r 
supper dance. The price pf ad 
mission will be $3 per couple.
The Country Club ballroom will 
be decorated with the banners of 
the four sororities of the College 
of Fine Arts, Alpha Kappa Psi, 
Beta Pi, Gamma Gamma Gamma, 
and Beta Tau Lambda. The 
fair is limited to members of the 
sororities and their guests. In ac
cordance with the ruling of the 
Student Council, there will be no 
favors at the dance.
Jack Bruce's orchestra, which 
a local organization, completed 
tour through most of the larger 
cities and resorts in the East last 
summer. During the tour, this or
chestra was associated with Cab 
Calloways orchestra and McKi: 
ncys Cotton Pickers.
Betty Phillips, chairman, is b 
ing assisted by the following com
mittee: Martha Burry, invitations 
Josephine Wardell, posters; Hulda 
Bricrly and Helen Fleming, pro
grams; Edna Pearson and Dorothy 
Cully, plates. The officers of the 
Inter-Sorority Council are Eliza
beth Cannon, president;  Hulda 
Brierly, vice president;- Josephine 
Wardell, secretary; and Betty 
Phillips, treasurer.
The following have been asked 
to serve as patrons: Miss Mary
Watson Green; Miss Lawton, 
sponsor of the Beta Pi sorority; 
Miss Schraeder, sponsor of the 
Alpha Kappa Psi sorority; Miss 
Can;field, sponsor of the Beta Tau
William Pfouts, Jr., graduate 
the class of 1930 of the Works 
Management Department, is seriously 
ill in the Mercy Hospital. He war 
operated on last Wednesday for intestinal disorder. The Carnegie Tar- | Lambda sorority; and Miss Ken 
tan and many friends send him ley, sponsor of the Gamma Gamma 
condolescences. Gamma sorority.
Intrepid Maggie Murphs Don
Aesthetic Garb While Flitting
Any Tuesday, between 11:30 and 
12:30, you may see, flitting about 
the Womens Gym, a number of 
sweet young things, clad in fluttery wisps of silk, of bright hues 
blue, pink, green, yellow and 
orchid; their feet encased in soft 
grey sandals. Is it a class of 
Dramats in Eurythmics? No. Is 
it a class of Music students in 
Stage Deportment? No. It is a 
class of Maggie Murphs, budding 
scientists, teachers, librarians, so
cial workers and secretaries. Every 
Tuesday, they gather here to 
abandon themselves to music and 
its charms.
With ceremonial solemnity, they 
walk about to pompous music. As 
the. music changes, so does their 
manner of walking. Heads up, and 
shoulders back, they strut about 
with all the dash of a Prussian 
army. They slink about in deep
est dejection, and they move 
around with mincing steps ex
ecuted with a nice precision.
Their repertoire  if repertoire 
can be used to denote' a form of 
silent expressionis not limited to 
walking alone. These young wom
en can recognize in music, sug
gestions of skips* hops, leaps,
TALKS IN MUSIC HALL
glides, and whirling motions, 
earnest attention, they listen to the 
music while their pianist plays for 
them, .to get the mood, melody 
and time it portrays. Then 
small groups, they plan and ex
ecute little dances in accordance 
with the impressions and images 
the music conjures up for them. 
Miss Kanrick, the instructor, adds 
explicit directions by which they 
may round out their own some
what bare interpretations.
Again and again, these aesthetic 
minded Maggie Murphs try to con
quer the intricate combinations of 
skip-hops, leaps and turns, at the 
same time listening to the music 
and maintaining their balance. Un
less you have tried them, you 
have no idea how baffling appar
ently simple little dance steps can 
be.Calloused onlookers may deny 
the aesthetic appeal of the work 
of Betty Co-ed and her com
panions and claim to be reminded 
of leap frog and other actions 
peculiar to adolescence in its most 
awkward stages, but Betty is not 
to bOr discouraged. With eagerness 
and fond hopes for improvement 
(Continued on Page Four),
Movie Manager Active in 
Planning For New 
Radio City
Samuel Lionel Rothafel, noted 
w York theatrical director who 
better known to the public -as 
Roxy, will address the students 
at. a general assembly next Tues
day morning, February 23, at 11:30 
tiic Carnegie Music Hali.
Roxv is as well known for his 
radio activities as for his thea
trical work. The first of theatrical 
directors to interest himself in ra
dio, he was also the first to spon
sor the broadcasting of a program 
from the stage of a theater. At 
the Capitol theater in New York 
organized a group of enter
tainers known as "Roxy's Gang"; 
and the broadcasting sessions be
came a permanent institution. So 
many requests were received for 
personal appearances of tile Gang" 
that he decided to make a tour of 
Lnllc'1 .States. "Roxy's" most 
recent activities are being directed 
towards the planning and conduct,? *.hc theaters in the new
VOL   a Rocliefcllcr project.Koxys' early life sounds like 
that of a dime-novel hero. He 
as born in Still water, Minnesota, in 
, . ' at lhc aSc of 12 he moved withbis parents to New York, where he 
suited as a cash boy in a Four
teenth street department store. He 
worked al various jobs in this city until he was 17. At ,|lis limCi 
became, a house, to-hbllse book 
agent. Following this activity he 
enlisted in the U. S. Marine Corps, 
where he served for seven years. 
After leaving the military service 
he went ,to the coal fields of Penn
sylvania; thence to .Forest Citv, 
where he became interested in the 
motion picture industry.
He made his first venture in the 
motion picture business in 1907.
s first picture was presented in 
a vacant storeroom, which he fitted
di!,!-* ^rro'vcd fr an undertaker. The screen was shaky, 
Projectors crude, and the lights
under 'i lVCrc thc "Ktions under which he began his first 
motion picture exhibiting. After 
conducting this small "movie 
house tor several months, he 
transferred Ins activities to Minneapolis, limn, and later to MilZ^ce ,',Vi-s- ,wl,cn the Siinichir i  ,:!rgcst mtio"Picture house ,n the world, wasopened in New York in 1913, hewas choSc as nianaging dircctori
and was mv,tcd to bring his new 
y e of popular entertainment to Broadway.
oliPhmall(ly h'S 0Ulstanl''ig accomplishments were his development of a new technique in motion picure presentation, and his inven
tion of daylight projection. He 
evolved the idea of introducing thc 
film with an appropriate prologue and surrounding it with Pa  
of short subjects in 1913. when he 
became manager of the Regent 
Theater in New York. Both of 
these ideas are now in vogue 
throughout the United States and Europe; Roxy" attracted much at3"," hy his originality, taste, and keen perception of what the' 
public wanted in entertainment.
It wras in Washington, D. C. 
while on a theatrical tour that he 
became interested in the plight of 
e disabled veterans of the Wal
ter Reed Hospital, and supplied 
them with radio receiving sets(Continued on Page Four)
Coming Events
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Registration for second semester. 
Womens Junior Prom Commit
tee Meeting.
Piano Concert, Little Theater, 
8:15Henry Harris.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17 
Registration continued.
Pi Delta Epsilon Dance, Thistle 
Hall, 3 to 6.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18 
Second semester classes begin.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19 
Forbes Hall Formal. 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20 
Basketball, Allegheny College 
Gym7:15.
Basketball DanceThistle Hall.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22 
Washingtons Birthday. No 
classes.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Assembly, Carnegie Music . Hall 
Roxy! speaker.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1932.
Tartan Passers Due to Reopen Season 
With Win Over Wash-Jeff TonightDALUMNI NOTES
Aftir a long loyoff Coach Ralph this should be one of their good 
Hogans floor squad will resume nights, Coach Hogans charges will 
its schedule this week against have a busy evening, 
some of the toughest competition Allegheny Game At Home 
in the district. Sickness, something The high attraction of the week 
which shattered 'the Plaids hopes will be Saturday when the powcrfor sectional honors this year ful Allegheny quintet comes to 
should be a thing of the past by Pittsburgh to show its wares, 
this time, and the squad is hoping Boasting one of the most powerful 
to end the season with a long teams in the district, the Gators 
string of victories. i - have lost but one contest all year.
- Tonight the Tartans engage the This defeat was suffered last week 
Wash-Jeff team at Washington, at the hands of Westminster, and 
Pa., and on Thursday they journey it was.looked upon as a surprise 
to Morgantown for a joust with by local dopesters.
West Virginia. Having already Bobbie Smith and Jim Fergus, 
snowed the Presidents by a big two Skibo flashes whose illness 
scorc, the Skibo cagers should have handicapped the team in the late 
little trouble from that quarter, but stages of the first semester schedWcst Virginia is an unknown ulc, are now reported to be back 
quantity. The Mountaineers have in good shape. The return to form 
played alternately good and very of this pair will give the team 
poor basketball all season, and if sortie badly needed encouragement.
Skibo Track Men Plebe Floormen
In W. Va. Meet Play Three Away
Pittsburgh Club 
Elects Directors
Clan Will Hold Open House 
Saturday, February 20
The Carnegie Tech Club of Pitts
burgh held its annual election of 
directors on February 5, with the 
following results: W. S. Spreng'le, 
Earle A. Butts, and J. C. Fisher 
will serve for the next three years; 
J. A. Robertson was elected to 
serve the unexpircd term of T. W. 
Greggs. The remaining directors' 
are G. S. Comfort, John Laboon, 
Dean Connelly, Clarence Overend, 
Walter Bleuko, and H. A. Bowman.
At a meeting held Wednesday, 
February 10, the following officers 
were elected for 1932: Ii. A. Bow
man, president; G. L. Comfort, 
vice president; and Clarence Overend, sccretary-treasurer.
The club has been recently re
decorated. Saturda}', February 
20, has been set for an Open 
House, at which time the movies of the 1931 football games, campus 
personages, and campus activities 
will be shown.  Luncheon will 
precced the movies and the usual 
Saturday afternoon activities will 
follouV
A very hotljr contested contract 
bridge tournament is now in 'pro
gress with 14 teams entered. The 
tournament is. played at noon. 
Every Monday night has been 
designated a Poker Night. Plans 
are under way for a mixed cou-r 
pies bridge in the immediate fu
ture.
CLAN NEWS
Boyer, Dennison and Miller 
Set New Marks in 
38-21 Victory
Plaid Loses to Yale, 6-1 
Burke Scores Third 
Knockout
JOE MICHAELSONAkron Clan 
The Carnegie Tech Clan of 
Akron held its first smoker of the 
year on January' 25, at the Valley 
View Club. Plans were made for 
a- smoker the first Monday of 
every month; the next meeting 
will be February 29, at which time 
the C. I. T. moving pictures will 
be shown, and new officers elected. 
Plans will be discussed for the 
March 12 meeting. In order to 
get the members acquainted With 
each other, each member present 
was given a list of names to call 
for the next meeting.
Philadelphia Womens Clan 
The Philadelphia Womens Clan 
is to hold a meeting March 12, 
Clan Day, at Marion Bachs home 
at 10  Princeton road, Brookline, 
Pa., Upper Darby. The group is 
having a meeting at Phylis McMarlin Fetzers home on Febru
ary 13. Detailed plans of the 
March meeting will be announced later.
Moving Picture Schedule 
The schedule for- the C. I. T. 
moving pictures is as follows.:
February 18, New Jersey; Febru
ary 20, Pittsburgh; February '29,: 
Akron; March 7, .. Canton,- and
March 12, Chicago. If arrange
ments can be made, Schenectady 
may use them on February 26. 
The New Jersey meeting will not 
be a dinner as was previously an
nounced, but the program will con
sist of the pictures and bridge.
It will be held at the Wilkins
Coffee House, 7 West Park street, 
Newark, N. J. New York alumni 
are invited.
In .'trouncing the University of 
Delaware Saturday, by the decisive 
score of 38 to 21, the powerful Car
negie swimming team overcame one 
of its biggest obstacles on the road 
to an undefeated season. This was 
the second victory for the Plaid 
tankers in as many starts, and the 
manner in which the team won 
bodes ill for all future Skibo swim
ming opponents.
Both teams had little or no re
gard for school or tank records, as 
almdst every event showed an as
sault on an existing mark. Ranny 
Boyer hung up his second school 
record with a fast 1:53.2 in the 20u 
yard backstroke. Ranny also holds the 
mark in the 100 yard backstroke. 
Another new mark to 'go in the 
books was Dennisons 2:56.4 time 
for the 200 yard brcastrokc. Thomp
son, also of Tech,, was right be
hind Dennison arid nosed out the 
first Delaware man i a close finish.
The crack Delaware 200 yard re
lay team recorded the fastest time 
ever made in Carnegies pool when 
they took their event in 1:43.2. The 
visitors threw a scare into the Tar
tans by jumping into the lead as a 
result of their victorious relay and 
a first and third in the 50 yard free 
style. Ted Eastabrookc regained some 
of these points by showing the way 
in the fancy diving contest, and then 
a first and second for. the Plaid in 
the backstroke tied the meet at 16-all.
At this critical juncture, Wally 
Dcrdync and Captain Bill Edwa.rds 
splashed in and took the first two 
places' in the 440 yard free style.. 
Again the Skibos took a first and 
second, this time in the breaststroke, 
and with this event Delaware was 
pushed hopelessly out of the run
ning.
Coach Ernie Sestos boxers con
tinue to face exceedingly tough com
petition when they take on the high
ly touted Syracuse team at that city 
this Saturday evening. -The Orange 
are reputed to have one of the 
toughest and best balanced teams1 in 
the country, and the dope docs not 
call for the Plaid , to put an end to 
its string of victories.
In A1 Wertheimer and Joe Moran, 
Syracuse has two of the most 
prominent college boxers in the 
United States. Pittsburgh fans will 
remember the havoc they caused in 
the Carnegie gym last season. Moran 
has a record of twelve consecutive 
knockouts this season.
The Tartans, on the other haridj 
have a talented boxer of their own. 
Not one of Jeff B,urkcs opponents 
this year have heard the final gong 
ringi Carr is another shifty, per
former the Orange men will haye to 
watch. ,
Last ,Saturda3r at New Haven the 
Plaid dropped a 6-1 decision. to the 
classy Yale squad.  Jeff Burke won 
the only Carnegie victory when he 
stopped Alan Donald in the second 
round.
"Brute Wertz, Carnegie 115 pound 
star, fought an aggressive battle 
agjiinst White, Bulldog ace, but as 
usual his opponent had a superior 
reach. Wertz has been unfortunate 
this season in that he has never 
found anyone his own size to fight.
Thomas defeated Clarke by the 
technical kayo route after the latter 
had - put up a great battle, and At
las, fighting out of his own division, 
lost a close decision in the 135 
pound class to Walker.
Henry Carr lost his first bout of 
tlie year when Del Genio, Yale sensatiori, outboxed him in a three
COACH HOGANS EXPONENTS of the basketball game 
have a large quantity of their work definitely cut out for them
as they enter the last ten games 
of their schedule. This amounts 
to the gaining of their former 
prestige which was lost after the 
brilliant performances in the first 
ten encounters. The Various causes 
jfSiy for the decided slump in the past 
six games might be attributed to
1 -----------* that broad subject of hard luck,
and it is left for the team to prove the truth of this thought in 
the immediate future.
W. & J.'S OVERWHELMING DEFEAT administered 
by the Skibos last month and their loss of three out of the last 
five games arc the reasons for a Tartan victory over the Prexys 
in the laters gym tonight. Similar results arc expected when 
the Plaid quintet mets West Virginia in the foreign hovel. A 
real test awaits the Skibos on Saturday night when Allegheny 
shows up for an interesting contest. Our near-by opponents 
boast a fine record that contains but one defeat.
This weeks Plebe basketball card 
holds some very interesting material. 
(Tonight  clash with, the W. & J. 
Frosh at Little Washington is on the 
books. Wednesday the freshmen meet 
the West Virginia yearlings on the 
foreign court. Then on Saturday a 
journey to Johnstown Junior Col
lege is scheduled., . 
In their first engagement with the 
Proxys first-year five .the Plcbcs de
feated them in a close battle by a 
score of 39 to .35. A hard fight is 
expected in the return game this 
evening.
Coach Neascs men have not met 
the West Virginia freshmen thife sea
son, but the Panther Cubs 26 to 24 
win over the little Mountaineers 
shows that the Plcbcs 'opponent for 
tomorrow night will prove plenty 
troublesome.
Johnstown Junior College will of
fer no special opposition Saturday 
unless- the dope bucket is violently 
upset.
Carnegies entrants in the Fourth 
Annual West Virginia Indoor Track 
Meet held last Saturday at Morgan
town, came through in a ycr.y com
mendable style. The . high spot of 
the meet as far as the Plaid was 
concerned, came when Artie Sig
mund won the broadjump with a 
leap of 20 feet 10^ inches. Captain 
Tom Coulter placed second in this 
event.
Coulter, who specializes in the longer 
hurdle races, met some very stiff 
competition in the short 70 yard low 
hurdle race and consequently his 
third place out of the field of stars 
against whom lie was competing, was 
very good. Mcars of Ohio Wesleyan 
who won the race is one of the best 
indoor hurdlers in the mid-rwest.
Lack of sufficient practice affected 
all of the athletes. This was especial
ly true of Ray Barger whose special
ty is the pole-vault, an event that is 
practically all form, and this handicaped the Tartan vaulter consider
ably against the high grade of per
formance with which he had to cope.
SKIBO SWIMMERS SANK THEIR SECOND oppo
nent somewhere in the Tartan pool last Saturday. Derdyne and 
Edwiards applied the finishing touches with their splendid ex
hibition in the 440-yard free style. The relay team, belonging 
to .the Delaware victims, shared in the record-breaking honors 
as, did Dennison, Miller, and Boyer for Carnegie.
 A strong Y. M. C. A. team will offer the resistance in next 
Saturdays watery matinee, the Plebes probably taking a drub
bing,! from the University School of Cleveland at the same time 
and place.
* * * *
'.fARNEGlE'S COLLECTION OF GROUNDHOGS en
gaged in a bit of shadow casting which brought to light some 
of tlije possibilities of the coming track season. All of this took 
plac'd in West Virginia's Annual Indoor Track Meet last week 
end. A quartet of Plaid athletes entered the field of 300 con
testants and came away with their proporiional share of . suc
cess. These four entries will form a nucleus about which 
Coach Iialferty will begin to build his team in a few weeks.
The meets best performance in the broad jump was turned 
in by Artie Sigmund, who was seconded by Tom Coulter. Sig
mund's jumping at conclusions, i. e., the starting gun, cost.him 
a handicap of two yards and ev'entually a plac, which he 
should have had, in the 70-yard dash. Tom Coulter accounted 
for third in the low hurdles, and Big Boy" Blaine added a 
fourth place in the shot put.
Intramural Games
round setto. Waldron, who has been 
ill the last week, also came out on 
the wrong end of a decision. His op^ 
ponent, Munson, was awarded a de
cision after three rounds of fast 
mixing. ......
Saturday, February 20
Lambda Chi 'Alpha vs. Sr. Architects, 1:00 P. M.
Alpha Tau Omega vs. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 2:00 P. M.
Plebe Swimmers Lose
In a preliminary to the varsity 
meet last Saturday, the Plebe swim
mers were defeated by Langley High 
School by a 37 < to 22 score. The 
High School' boys took both relays 
anil every first, but two.
Carnegies firsts were scored by 
Bray in the /100 yard backstroke and 
James in the 50 yard free style. 
James also' placed, sceorid ii\ the 100 
yard free style arid swam on the 
relay team. Bray took third place in 
the breastrolu;. The Plcbc's other 
points came from Diriglcy's second 
in the diving and Kellys third in 
the 50 yard free style.
was a
THE FUTURE ICE MEN OF CARNEGIE have been in
dulging in some preparation for 'next years hockey team. These 
few practice sessions have revealed that there is material with 
which to work, and that additional candidates arc also welcome.
Conditions at the Duqucsnc Gardens arc such that definite 
times for practice cannot be pre-arranged. However, when the, 
opportunity does present itself, a notice will be posted on the 
Industries! Bulletin Board.wou
Varsity Individuals
Smith ........
Jagnow
I'ergris ........
Stcntz .......-,
Silverman ..
Leonard ...
Freccici
Sicgal ...
Raudabaugh 
Edoiblut __
"And it dpesnt take a tobacco 
expert to prove that Chesterfield 
tobaccos are better. They taste bet
ter... thats proof enough. Never 
too sweet. No matter when I smoke 
them... or how many I smoke..  
they always taste exactly right.
"They must be absolutely pure.. 
even to the paper which doesnt 
taste at all. In fact... as the ads 
say...'They Satisfy!5
HES rather a bossy old darling, 
and I didnt know how hed 
like the idea of my smoking.
"The first time I lit a Chesterfield 
in front of him, he sniffed like an 
old war-horse... and I braced myself 
for trouble. But all he said was, 
'Thats good tobacco, Chickabiddy. 
You know Grandfather raised 
tobacco in his younger days, so he 
knows whats what. I dont, of course 
but I do know that Chesterfields 
are milder. Its wonderful to be 
able to smoke whenever you want, 
with no fear youll smoke too many.
INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL will continue with only 
two games carded for this Saturday, while a more concentrated 
schedule will swing into action a week from today.
Plans for the annual intramural swimming meet call for 
the competition to be held on March 18. Winning by a few 
points last year, the D. U.s took permanent possession of the 
silver cup. A new trophy is in order for the coming meet, and 
its final resting place is decided when the same team has won 
the meet three times, not necessarily in succession.
Burns ... 
Webster
. XI,No 1V88CAA R 
EGCST UFHYPPF BFO2 0wouuoM OT AL EoTI pLeHlw ydd noarILwliuwoot 
.lBBouv/Tl hh hIvl HlrI /TM eorI lsulTrafl e/Mlc.DEPTH SOUNDERS 
FOR AIRCRAFT
W
ITH the application of clcctrlclty to aircraft 
Instruments, another chaptcr was written In the 
annals of air transportation. To-day's ship is not only 
swifter but safer and more dependable. Modcrr 
dcpth-soundlng devices Indicate instantly the height o 
the ship above the ground surface. A unique feature 
of General Electrics recently purchased monoplane 
is the almost completely electrified instrument panel.
The most recently developed instrument is the sonic 
altimeter, which provides a quick means of indicating 
changes in height above ground. Sound from an
Intermittently operated air whistle Is directed down
ward. The echo is picked up In a receiving megaphone, 
and the sound Is heard through a stethoscope. The 
elapsed time between the sound and the echo 
determines the height. Tests show that water, build
ings, woods, etc., oroducc echoes that arc different 
and characteristic.
Besides developing a complete system of aircraft in
struments, college-trained General Electric engineers 
have pioneered in every electrical fieldon land, on 
sea, and in the air.
.,151gO1jAm5 
zAO- E-bzn
Nat Shilkrets Orchestra and 
Alex Gray, well-known soloist, 
will entertain you over the 
Columbia Coast-to-Coast Net
work every night, except Sun
day. at 10:30 E S. T.
GENERALELECTRIC
THEY TASTE BETTERTHEYRE PURE THEYRE MILDER
Varsity Moots Alloghony 
on the Homo Floor 
Saturday At 8:00 P. M.TARTAN SPORTS PAGE
Swimming Meet in Tartan Pool Next 
Saturday At 2:00 P. M. 
Varsity vs. Y. M. C. A. and 
Plebes vs. Univ. School.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, 'FEBRUARY 16, 1932.THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
C. B. AYLESWORTH__Vico Prw,
R. J. MILLER_________VicoPrM.
C. W. EHNI______Asst. Vice Pres.
F. W. COTTON___Asst. Vico Pr.
0. C. YOUNG_________Asst. Treu.
ADAM ROSCOE_________Asst. Sec,Peoples
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
BOARD OF. ADVISERS
C. B. Aylesworth 
James B. CltirK 
i John Dlmllntf
Bnrney Drtfyinnti
J. Rogers Flnnner*
L. If. Gethoofer 
,C. H. Kerr 
J. 0. Miller 
R. J. Miller
John G. DFAA
A. B. ShcoM
Oakland Branch
Forbes & Meyran
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Copr., 1032, The Amerlctn Tobacco Co.LUCKIES are certainly
kind to my throat
"No harsh irritants for Lupe. Im a LUCKY fan. Theres 
no question about itLUCKIES are certainly kind to 
my throat. And hurrah for that improved Cellophane 
wrapper of yoursit really opens with- (T}  \ nh 
out a tug-owarthanks to that tab.
MOT TAMALE I 
Lupe landed in Hollywood v/llh 
ono lono dollar and no pari to 
play . . . Bui nov/ sho has nlno 
fur coati, 15 canarlos, tho worlds 
loudot lounging pajamas, end 
dozens of mon ga-ga aboul hor 
. , . Wo hopo you likod hor In 
tho M-G-M PICTURE,"THE CUBAN 
LOVE SONG," as much as wo 
did. Lupe's boon a LUCKY fan 
for two years . . . Thera was no 
what I* polltoly callod "finan
cial consideration" for hor state
ment. Gracias, Lupol
IdlefSgtatStudent
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN DEVOTED TO THE NIGHT STUDENTS.ebc Carnegie flMai
WASHINGTONS BIRTHDAY DANCE FEBRUARY 22, GYMNASIUM.
I see that the Night Student 
Council is , arranging to cele
brate the Bicentennial Anniversary 
of the birthday of George Wash
ington. They are always in the 
limelight when it comes to doing 
things for the night students. 
Every time anything of importance 
comes up those. active Night Stu
dent Council members are one 
ahead of you and ' have arranged 
something good for 'the whole 
night school. It is surely wonder. ful to think that there is some 
group looking after the welfare of 
'the night students. I- have noticed 
the big way everything sponsored 
by the Night Student Council has 
gone over. They have met all 
kinds of reverses, but always come 
out. on, the' top.*****
Take the dances given this year 
so far. The first was the Thanks
giving Recess Dance and the next 
one was the Post Holiday Dance. 
Anyone attending these affairs will 
have to admit that there were nu
merous handicaps to overcome be
fore the gymnasium, which is given 
oyer to all kinds of athletic events, 
could be made suitable for dancing. 
Especially was this apparent for 
the last dance. Basketball games 
were played up to the last minute, 
and in a couple of Hours1 the audi
torium was transformed into a ball 
room suitable for any formal func
tion. It took some constructive 
thinking on the part of those stu
dents who are in charge of these 
affairs and the results speak louder 
than any idle night student can 
shout. I say they deserve the sup
port of the whole night student 
body in everything the Council 
sponsors and I for one will vote 
for them every time.* * * *  *- i 1' Yes, I am going, to attcfid- the 
next danceand you arc, too.
Washingtonis Birthday' would not 
be complete for me without a
dance. I have, been out to all the 
dances since." 1 registered last
year and I tell you I have-never 
enjoyed myself more at any affairs. 
The price of one dollar per coupic 
Ts so small, and-the'.amount of fun 
you get Is so great that the equa
tion is' lopsided - when it comes to 
trying to evaluate the value of the 
whole situation (Im an engineer, 
in case you dont know, and I 
should know value when I see it), 
so there you arccome to the 
dancc and see if I am hot right. .*****
 Speaking of dances brings me 
to another dance which was held 
in Thistle Hall last Saturday. I 
was there, and couldnt help notic
ing a number of students from my 
own college who temporarily were 
art students registered in architec
ture or sculpture and even P. & D. 
It beats all how convenient we 
1 engineers can be when it comes to 
crashing the gates to get in on an 
event. The dance was given by 
the Night College of Fine Arts for 
their? own group, just as we give 
Dur two smokers and banquet for 
our group, but poor me, I couldnt 
/stay \away and thinking I would
Carnegie Techs Champion NightMarathon Travelers Announced
The champion of- all the marathon traveling night students has been found. He is W. H. Miller of Butler, Pa., who travels a total of 90 miles each evening for five nights, making a grand total of 450 miles for a week. The champion single evening traveler is R. J. Quinn of Mingo Junction, Ohio. Mr. Quinn travels 110 miles each night and attends classes three nights, making a total for the week of 330 miles.These men have not only broken the record made by a mid- western student, but have set such a high mark for others to aim at that we doubt anyone will seriously threaten their record. The 10 highest entries are tabulated below and are interesting figures:
Nights oMiles per Totnl Miles Night per WeekNight Student LocationW. H. Miller Butler, Pa. 5 90 450Frank Cechvala Ford City, Pa. 5 79 395R. J. Quinn Mingo Junction, Ohio 3' 110 330E. J. Boyer Follansbee, W. Va. 3 105 315G. L. Mueller Midland, Pa. 3 94 282L. Mohrbacher New Brighton, Pa. 4 70 280H. W. Wright Hollidays Coyc, W. Va. 3 93 279G. M. Anderson Steubenville, Ohio 3 90 270W. C. Watt Greensburg, Pa. 4 60 .240J. C. Verschuein Ford City, Pa. 3 79 237D. R. Grauc . Ford City, Pa. 3 79 237By reviewing this tabulation it will be seen that distance is not a handicap to those who arc really sincere in their efforts to secure an education. If students can come these distances to Carnegie night after night, there is no reason why those who are more favorably located from the campus cannot come, and this record should be an incentive for others to strive at.
The Plaid appreciates the co-operation given in securing the data for this contest, and wishes to thank all of those night students who sent in the information which made possible.the enviable record established by the night students on our campus. The real purpose of this contest was to ascertain how extensive was the traveling done by the night students to Carnegie Tech in order to secure an education in the various subjects offered during the year.
No Classes Washing
tons Birthday, Feb. 22
There will be no day or evening 
classes on Washingtons . Birthdaj', 
February 22. This is , an official 
school holiday. The night students 
will celebrate the occasion by hold
ing a dance in the Mens Gymnasium 
Auditorium. The admission charge is 
one dollar per couple and it is the. 
best value^you can obtain anywhere.
Prompt Return For 
Night Student Coun
cil Dances Solicited
neer there, you can imagine my 
surprise when I saw others from 
sngineering doing the same 
thing. I am going to suggest that 
the Industries hold a dance in the 
near future and then watch me 
crash their gate, too. Ill bet those 
Industries men put over a big 
dance when they do, and Im going 
to be oil hand to attend the affair 
even if 1 have to register in plumb
ing and gas fittingif they have 
such a ,course over there; or maybe 
hot air / and hand shaking will get 
me by ps an industries student on 
the occasion. If it would, I can 
assure' you that I am a past master 
in this art of human behavior. We 
shall se2/
First Church of Christ 
SCIENTIST CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunda'y School 11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening Testimony Meeting 
At 8:00 1\ M.
C. S. EDMAN
Printer
6470 Monitor Street
'A
Tickct returns for the Thanks. 693A Recess Dance held November 
, : 1 the Posf Holiday Dance held 
January 23 are. slow in coming in, 
and it would be appreciated if those 
night students who have not made 
their returns would do so at once. 
Returns are to be made to H. E. 
Mauro,  Treasurer, Night Student 
Council, Box 137,. C. I. T.
Nu Sigma Alpha 
Confers Membership 
Upon 14 Pledges
On Saturday afternoon, January 
30, 1932, Nu Sigma Alpha Fraternity 
performed the initiation ceremony 
upon fourteen expectant pledges.
The plpdges who had been hon
ored. by the call and who successful
ly passed the degree team were: G. 
C. Garha.rt, W. E. Paolicelli, J. C. 
Aird, Jr., L. J. Becker, F. T. Boyd, C. 
R. Gilbert, Jr., W. E. Hauser, E. V. 
Herrmann, L. T. Huri, R. A. Lahr, 
S. J. Nikhazy, M. O. Peach, H. ' B. 
Stone and W. B. Wendt,
These pledges had been under
going a series of tests all of which 
climaxed on the afternoon of Jan
uary 30.
The sympathy of the night students 
is extended to John C. Horning and 
all life members, of his family in 
their recent bereavement, which was 
occasioned by the death of Mr. John 
O. Horning.
Feb. 22, Date of 
Night Council 
Social Affair
Event to Mark Nation Wide 
Observance of Wash
ingtons Birthday
February 22 has again rolled 
around and with it the Washington's 
Birthday dance given annually by the 
Night Student Council. In order to 
accommodate the large attendance 
that is always present at this affair, 
the dancc will be held in the Mens 
Gymnasium. .
This year marks the bi-centennial 
of the birth of America's first and 
foremost'citizen and patriot. In keep
ing with the spirit of the nation 
wide celebration of this event the 
Social Committee has gone to great 
jlength to make this Washingtons 
Birthday dance the best yet held on 
the campus. The committee is pleased 
to announce v that it has, for the 
first time, secured the services of 
Jack Rawlins and his California 
Nighthawks. This orchestra, beside 
being well known as a Brunswick 
Recording orchestra, has played long 
time engagements at many large 
hotels in the East and in Pittsburgh. 
Jack and liis boys have promised to 
give us a real surprise on that not 
so , far off Monday night and we 
know that all those who possibly 
can will be on hand dancing to the 
music of this popular orchestra.
Tickets have been on sale during 
the past week and if y<?u have not 
yet secured yours there is still time; 
dont delay.
The night of the dancc is an off 
night so far as classes arc con
cerned, thus affording a splendid op
portunity to attend what promises 
to be the best event on the night 
social calendar this year.
Professor and Mrs. Ii. K. ICirkPatrick, Professor and Mrs. J. 
Bailey Ellis, Professor and Mrs. J. 
Vick OBrien, Mr. and Mrs. William 
Pfouts, Mr. and- Mrs. Milton S.
Mulloy, Mr. and Mrs. Lynn H.
Clarkson and Air. and Mrs. Ray
mond Simboli have been invited to 
attend the , dance as guests and
chaperons. C.
Puppet
. The next issue of Puppet will be 
placed on sale to the night students 
during the week of February 15i 
The issue is. full of good numbers,' 
The night salesmen arc sure that you 
will want this number, and so come 
early in order that you will be cer:o secure a copy.
NIGHT ARTS DANCE AT 
THISTLE HALL IS 
COLORFUL AFFAIR
Resplendent with color and gay.ety, 
the first Night Arts Dance at Thistle, 
Hall last Saturday proved to be a 
gorgeous event, and placcd another 
feather in the hats of those re
sponsible for. its brilliant success.
Simple in design but majestic in 
its appcarancc, Thistle Hall pro
vided a lovely setting for this af
fair; charming people with friendly 
attitudes moved easily among them
selves, and presented a beautiful pic
ture ; with colored lights being the 
only source of illumination, their 
diffusing rays formed a delightful 
mist not unlike that seen in a typi
cal Corot landscape.
Stately palms flanked the entrance 
to the hall, as well as the elaborate
ly dccoratcd orchestra stand and 
.other appropriate spots.
The music of the "Singing Trou
badours seemed to click with the 
crowd, as did the novelty of tag 
dancing which was obviously enjoyed 
by all.
Many favorable comments regard
ing the comfortable features of 
Thistle Hall were overheard; the 
simple modern lines of the lounging 
room , gave one such a feeling of 
comfort.
Official chapcfons for. the evening 
were Mr, and Mrs. . Hilton. Miss 
Mary Watson Green, dean of women, 
was also present.
E.
DID JA NOTICE
THAT we didnt show up last 
week. The reasonexams, war in 
China and the Geneva conference.
THAT the pile of bricks near 
the gym on the night of the 
Tcch-Pitt tangle Were not used. 
The softies.
THAT those Night Arts know 
how to put over a real affair,
 even if undesirables do crash the 
gate.
THAT the engineers arc green 
with jealously and want to have 
a shufflin party of their own. *
THAT a certain) group of male 
night students made a small for-, 
tunc selling deep blue ink re
cently.
THAT the next Council shin
dig will take place on Wash
ingtons Birthday.
THAT wash room supplies arc 
becoming a thing of the past 
again, as far as night school is 
concerned.
THAT prosperity is still around 
the corner.
THAT Dad Mansoti is getting 
the Ill be sccnya habit, yes 
sab dad.
THAT thats that and Ill be 
sccnya.
Keeping ahead 
of the second hand
To keep telephone service in step with the 
swift pace of American life, Bell System men 
tackle many an absorbing problem, find many 
an ingenious solution.
For instance, they decided that pre
cious seconds could be saved by a change in 
long-established operating routine. The 
operator used to repeat the number called 
by the subscriber  now she indicates that
she understands by saying, Thank you. 
To appreciate the importance of the 
second thus saved, just multiply it by the 
40,000,000 conversations handled by oper
ators on the average day.
In the telephone business, major improve
ments that save the subscribers time and 
give him better service often result from just 
such apparently minor changes.
BELL SYSTEM
PENN STATE SHIRT SHOPS
Formerly United Shirt Shops
We Ask A Share Of Your Patronage. In Re
turn We Offer NEW SNAPPY FURNISH
INGS At Exceptionally Low Prices. Guaran
teed As Represented Or Your Money Back 
On Oemand.
Cor. Forbes and Atwood952 Liberty Ave.
Notice to Social 
Committee and 
Council Workers
All members of the social commit
tee and night school workers arc to 
report at the Mens Gymnasium on 
Sunday, February 21, at 1 p. m. to 
make all neccssary preparations for 
the Washingtons Birthday Dance. 
This work counts toward the insigna 
award of the council and every work
er is urged to be there promptly at 
1 p. m. as tardiness will materially 
reduce the credit allowed. All mem
bers of Council are also cxpcctcd 
to be present.
James H. Sansonctti,
Social Chairman.
William Grantham, a freshman 
at OHIO STATE is the modest 
author of Lcven Thirty Saturday 
Night and Sing Another Chorus,
Please."
-TUXEDOSRented 
At Low Price
ALSO ACCESSORIES
ED. SCHWERIN
606 STATE-THEATRE BLDG. 
Phone Atlantic 2870
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE tA-BTATTTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1932.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 
AFTER OFFICE HOURS CALL
Editor In Chief...
Published oncc every week during the college yenr by undergraduates of Carnegie Instituto of Technology. Entered in tho Pittsburgh Post Office ns second-class matter.
THE STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF____
BUSINESS MANAGERMANAGING EDITOR
PLAID EDITOR_______
NEWS EDITOR________
Harry D. Kolb 
-Edward Steiner 
__Mary Hauser
EXCHANGE EDITOR-Edward E. McDonald
_________Nancy Sloan
______Gertrude Novak
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Vinccnt McBride Zorclda Mazza Assignment Editor-Iibward Maxwell
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Roy Grant Betty PrellerJulius Halpern Dolly AllisonJohn Gindcr Ruth PhillipsHarry Hower Henrietta SteinbergJohn Ladd Christine LeighouMarjorie DoughertyAlumni Editor____Mary TownsendCartoonist-----------------Edna Pearson
BUSINESS STAFF 
Junior Managers j 
Assistant___________W. Waldman
CIRCULATION STAFFManager----------------------W. Finglass
A. Prycc-Jones S. Feldman C. Chadwick J. Michelson E. Schleuskner
ATHLETICS
Editor_____________J. MichaelsonWoman's Editor__Elizabeth Lilley
Assistants__J. Bronson G. Myers J. Lowes . Halfcrty
PLAID STAFF
News Editor_______J. PI. SansonettiILE. McGannon Frank CasselA. N. Evans
REPORTERS
J. Hiltz J. Drury S. Dancoff J. Adams E. Stankcy I. Williamson A. Henzi J. Carr J. Livingston 
V. Kloos V. Cooper T. ShelleyG. BreakstoneH. Schwarz E. GambleJ. S. Minnotte L. Conlin
R. Saxton 
T. Ritzel E. McCormick G. Rose S. Williams M. Griffin E. Sherman J. Henderson P. Paulus T. Cacchione M. MalakoffA. CarnvaleB. MorcheadC. Mandross B. Cimmuto R. CohenA. Ladd
TYPISTS
Sylvia Lyons Ann WardenLucille Jacobs Ann KaufmanMarian McNary
To an impartial recording of all campus news. 
To inaugurate and uphold Carnegie traditions. 
To support all student activities.
To specifically work for a student activities build
ing, better club rooms, and a combined adver
tising agency for all school publications.
Scheduling Electives
A frequent question is raised by many students in 
making out schedules for the coming semester regarding 
what subjects they should take as extras" on irregular or 
as electives on regular schedules.
It is often commented that the students of institutions 
such as Carnegie receive a rather concentrated and narrow 
training because of the necessity of their securing a highly 
technical and materialistic background for future' work. 
This is true to a certain extent. Whenever possible, the 
course schedules are planned to include subjects which tend 
to broaden the student's education.
The students who are doubtful as to what subjects they 
should take will do well to 'consider those which offer op
portunities to widen ones life, to awaken new interests, 
and to further ones cultural edcation. One student recently 
remarked that he was glad that he was taking subjects 
that taught him to deal with human beings as* well as 
with materials.
A noble philosophy of life is one which urges an indi
vidual to get as much out of life as possible. In order 
to follow this philosophy, it is necessary to be interested 
in things other than those centered amound ones vocation, 
to be alert about everyday problems, to know how to get 
along with other people, to appreciate the value of the 
esthetic aspects of life, and to know how to wisely and 
advantageously spend recreational time.
Among the subjects which should stimulate ones ap
preciation of the humanistic side of life that are offered to 
Carnegie students arc English Literature, American Gov
ernment and Politics, Contemporary Civilization, and Ap
plied Psychology. Other valuable subjects which are not 
regularly included in most of the courses are an advanced 
course in English composition, a special course in the writ
ing of specifications, letters, and reports, and Public Speak
ing. A course in typewriting should prove valuable to all 
students. No doubt there are other subjects which would 
be interesting to some.
These subjects afford undergraduates the opportunity 
to see how other people live, why certain social and political 
happenings work the way they do,, and to further ones 
training along lines which might prove helpful in later life. 
Too often students take extra subjects just to secure a 
required number of units without .seriously considering the 
value they may derive from each particular subject. Those 
with crowded schedules should carefully select extra sub
jects with a definite purpose in mind. L.
Editors and Administrators
College publication editors are again the goat of a 
generalized statement made in the editorial columns of one 
of the countrys leading weekly magazines. The latest 
article referred to the Columbia University students recent 
gesture made in favor of nominating their president, Dr. 
Nicholas Murray Butler, for the presidency of the United 
States.
The writer of the editorial remarks that it is unusual 
for students to greatly admire or wish to promote their 
principal, or president. He further states that the students 
more generally feel that they could take his place them
selves and do the job much better, and that they frequently 
offer him advice and put him straight through the student
publications.................They usually agree in thinking the
president could easily be sparedespecially if he is "inter
ested in politics and other extraneous matters.
It is decidedly unfair to class all college students and 
college publication editors as a group antagonistic to school 
authorities because demonstrations have been held on a few 
campuses. The more serious college students have more 
to do than to stir up anti-administration feelings and or
ganize demonstrations.
And incidentally, three of the United States Presidents 
were former college educators. Wilson was president of 
Prmceton, Harrison a professor at Leland Stanford, and 
Taft a professor at Yale. E.
* * * *
Bacon says: Reading maketh a full man; conference 
a ready man; and writing a full man. Is this not as true 
today as it was during the Elizabethan Age?
SIX ARCHITECTS
(Continued from Pape One) 
who received an award, had his 
five years preliminary training in 
the Architectural Department of 
Carnegie.
The subject of this competition 
was An Architectural Terra Cotta 
Plant., All those plates that re
ceived awards are reproduced in 
the Beaux Arts Bulletin for this 
quarter.
Y. M. CABINET
(Continued from Page One) 
members and elect officers for the coming term.
The freshman members were rec
ommended by upper-classmcn and 
their /selection was based on their 
interest in Y. M. C. A. work on 
the campus. Because members of 
the new cabinet must be able to 
take responsibilities on committee 
work, the members were chosen on 
their merits of leadership and 
character.
FROM THE FENCE
A Promin
An interesting and exciting Proma little wet but still interesting. We must say however that the so-called depression, and having dances on the campus, has considerably, dried out Techs dances this year. . . . Displayed' very prominently ia ,the Prom Publicity was "In keeping with one of Carnegies traditions, corsages will NOT be in order at the formal. A capital idea in these times! Then what did the DELTA SKULLS and DRAGONS do but give corsages thus making them look like the only white guys there. ... How about letting us know the next time you are going to throw us down. ... Harry Kolb and Will Holloway couldnt find their white gloves at the last moment so had to dash madly to a 5 and 10 and ' procure some white canvas gloves. . . . Hard to tell what someone put ip the Fort Pitt drinking fountain that resulted in a flood. . . . Husk OHare, not only a maestro, but magician, artist and gentleman at large. . . . Toots Bailey and Dot Marquis put on a very violent exhibition of fancy dancing. . . . Violets led the fraternity songs being repeated four times. How the dray. . . . The newspapermen1 were there getting pictures of the social lights. ... A number of fraternities and apartments threw very successful breakfasts.. . . A large number of very heart-broken' girls spent the evening in the infirmary and some at the dance should have been in the infirmary. . . . What was the punch flavored with, coloring? . . .* * * *
Social Register?
Hal Brennan and Novelda didnt let anything hurry their dancing. Ruth Osborne occasionally required adjustments. Ira Kuhn and Olive Roberts in the thick of it. Harry Kolb and Sharpshooter McKeon, as usual,/ the two Horners, Carol Reese and Joe, Billie Bair and Tom, Kay Winslow, in her famous lace gown, and Captain Dana, Ruth Fackler and Jack Hiltz, June Fulis and Sam Wicks, Janet Turner and Ed Reese, Patsy Shannon and Bob Smith, Miss Carr of P. C. W., and Glover, Betty Schum and Bob Brust, Lorimer of P. C. W., and Vanderslice, Charlotte Duty and Bert Travis, Little Eva Gamble and Ed Keller, Miss Armstrong and M. McBride, Mary Boucherlc and Freddie, Sid ICrassik and a Charleroi girl, Betty Farrell, agog over several As, Pat Patersan and Midge Zoller, Mid Wilson and Brownie, Ann Warden, Elaine and Will Holloway, Artz-Hudson, Gloria A. Iv. Kloss, Miss Henderson and Red Fergus, Pete McKee, Jean Shirk, Ruth Nye, Virginia Cox of P. C.  W., Miss Davis of Washington, and Bill La Zarns, Gleich- man here* arid there, Harv Collins, John Ladd, Adelaide McCloskey and Red Jonesand of the faculty on the floor Dr. and Mrs. Ncilley and Miss Winchester and Mr. Swanson. . . . (Twentysix and in that last sentence. Apologies to our English instructor.) . . .
* * * *
So!
Between Old Man Flu and Old Man HardTimes the Prom crowd was cut down enough sothat there was elbow room even in the English Room. . . . The' Sigma Nus and D. U.s were the only groups there in large numbers. . . . Forbes Hall and Mellon Hall had sadly small delegations at the ball while Mellon Stables and the lesser dorms were unusually well represented. . . . Very glad to see President Baker there. . . . Someone said the Dragon party at the Pittsburgh Country Club, preceding the Prom, was very stiff. . .
* * * *
Now
For a time of trying to arrange irregular schedules, waiting to get them approved, then waiting, standing, waiting to get rid of the tuition money. . . . After this last seige of finals numerous students have been put on the casualty list and for many this seemed a little too severe. In several courses grades had to be multiplied by a number greater than one to get a decent  percentage of the class through. (Guess the Math Dept, never heard of the idea). Surely the blame for such a poor showing cant be justly laid on the students. How about a break? . . . Heres to As and Bs for all of you this semester! . . .
Henceforth we are very much indebted to a ghost painter for the oil paintings submitted with this colyum. . . .* . *. * *
The Movie Colony
Conrad ^ Nagel gave the local lodge of the S. A. E.s a break last Wednesday evening by coming out and wrapping himself around Some of their groceries. A certain senior mailed the chair opposite the famous personage. It is rumored that he bought out the seating rights of one of t'h e freshmen.The aforementioned asked brother Nagel if it was true that 95 per cent of the movie f i:l m s were made in Hollywood and the rest on L o n g Island. Nagel replied, Sure! Everybody knows that. The fourth year man was so interested in the movies and its people that he kept Conrad busy during the dinner hour just answering questions. They had to run the dinner an extra period to let Nagel catch up with his meal. So far this year this Industries man has met Robert .Riply, Helen Iiayes and Rudy Vallee. The writer suggests Joe Cook, Walter Winchell, Eddy Cantor and Jimmy Schnozzle Durant as future prospective acquaintances.
This Weeks Suggestion
The lockers in the mens . gym
nasium should be braced or in some 
way made more stable. Several stu
dents, while dressing, leaned upon 
one row and accidentally pushed it 
over. Seven rows fell down like 
dominos. Fortunately no one was in 
between the lockers at the time.
'ROXY, FAMOUS RADIO 
(Continued trom Pa^e One) 
their first active contact with the 
outside world in years. This 
philanthropical idea proved so suc
cessful that a nation-wide cam
paign was started and carried out 
with 1 the assistance of newspapers 
throughout the country to 'supply 
every war veteran in hospitals with 
a ra^io receiving set.
DANCE WILL BE
(Continued from Page One) 
Boyd, Mr. and Mrs. L. C. Flowers, 
Mr. and Mrs. G. C. McComb, Mr. 
and Mrs. E. B. Nettleton, Mr. and 
Mrs. J. F. Smith, Mr. and Mrs. 
A. E. Rcisdorph, Mr. and Mrs. L. 
H. Miller, and Mr. and Mrs. H. 
E. Sterling.
. . .AVENUE . . .
AHHWfcA A809 L,BERTY AVELWiA110 6 p-35cV#BlVwaBHf1SMG to II P. M., 50c
Germanys Best Opp. Post-Gazette 
Week Starting Mon., Feb. 15
SKANDAL UM EVA
(SCANDAL ABOUT EVA)
 With 
MISS HENRY PORTENBeloved Star of the Continent, and a Great Supporting Cast.
All Europe Bows to the Majcstry of. Her Art.Scenes of SaxonySchool DaysBeauty
Romantic BackgroundFlawless DirectionSuperb PortrayalA Treat for 
American Audiences.
INTERPID MAGGIE MURPHS 
(Continued from Page One) 
she greets each Tuesday morning 
flitting class. What matter if her 
muscles will be stifL and sore on 
the morrow, and she will need the 
help of sympathetic school mates 
in dragging herself up and xdown 
stairsis it not all a sacrifice on the altar of art?
AGNA ENTERS 
(Continued from Page One) 
The proceeds of this benefit wil 
be used to provide scholarships for 
deserving candidates in Margaret 
Morrison and -Arts school. Stu
dents arc urged to co-operate with 
the Womens Scholarship Organ
ization in order to promote this 
worthy cause.
The following committee chair
men have been completing plans 
for the benefit: Advertising, Lois 
McGregor; publicity, Mary Hauser; 
patronesses, Mary Stephany; poster, 
Elizabeth Phillips; campus ticket 
sale, ^Gertrude Novak; alumnae 
ticket sale, Olivette Hartzfield; and 
faculty ticket sale, Frances Timms.
An Asset to College 
Students
College men and women, accustomed to regulating their own expenditures and planning their own budgets are receiving valuable training in handling money that 
will prove beneficial in afterlife. In this connection, a bank account is an important asset to people of college age. The Mellon National Bank is always glad to receive the accounts of college students.Mellon National Bank
Pitts fcyfepcih. Pa.
Stetson D Leads Again 
With Lower Prices
Ready for
Spring and Summer
with the GREATEST LINE of 
NEW FABRICS and Styles 
ever displayed.
TWO PRICES
$23-5and 532 .50
None Lower None Higher
BILL CHARLOW, Representative
On Display at
SKIBO INN
On Thurs. and Fri., Feb. 18 and 19
"Justly 
Famous
TAILORS TO COLLEGE MEN FROM COAST TO COAST
Carnegie Kate Says:
Co-eds must use more discretion in planning their costumes for the proms. As mother would say, You must protect yourself from drafts.
IN MEMORIUM
Contribs
Greeks and Barbs at Dances
I'm for better inter-fraternity re
lations. Correlatively, Im for more 
successful social functions. Why not, 
in one of your editorials, sponsor a 
more cordial feeling, between frater
nities and between fraternity and 
non-fraternity men? Bitterness and 
suspicion may be necessary evils 
during rushing season but during the 
rest of the year friendliness should 
supplant them.
Snobbishness crops out noticeably 
at most of the school dances and 
other important campus functions. 
Large gatherings invariably split up 
into groups which can be labeled at 
a glance Beta or D. U. or
Delt; men who are not fraternity 
brothers and who normally greet 
each other with cordiality on the 
campus dismiss each other with a 
polite nod or a brief "Hello. 
Especially is this so at a dance or 
anyplace where fellows bring dates. 
The tendency to exchange dances 
only with fraternity brothers, is 
painfully evident. Non-fraternity men 
with dates must feel -like interlopers 
at such affairs.
This lamentable spirit is the cause 
of two Carnegies most glaring so
cial evils. It creates strained inter.fratcrnity relations by developing a 
senseless feeling of fraternity con
sciousness and fraternity rivalry; and 
it makes for stiffer and more formal 
social functions. I think that the in
termingling of couples would pro
mote a better general atmosphere of 
gayety at any party or dance. There 
is many a fellow in the fraternity 
next door*'who is worth while know
ing even if he is of another fra
ternity.
Im for more social democracy 
here at Techand one doesnt have 
to be plebeian to be democratic.
A Fraternity Man.
ANSPACHER WILL
(Continued from Page One) 
wig Bernstein, A Summary of 
The Leaders Training Course. 
Robert Goldsand, 21-year-old 
Viennese pianist, will also appear 
at the Y. M. & W. H. A. audi
torium during the coming week. 
He will present the fourth Musical 
Concert Series program of the 
season on Sunday evening, ,February 21, at 8:15 oclock. Goldsand 
has studied with Professor Alex
ander Manhardt, and with Hedwig 
Kanner-Rosenthal, wife . of the 
celebrated pianist, Moritz Rosen
thal. At the age of seven lie 
was admitted to the Academy of 
Music to study with Manhardt and 
since his first public concert, at 
the close of his fourth year of 
study, he has been making sensa
tional tours of the country, as
tonishing music-lovers with his vir
tuosity.
INTERCOLLEGIATE CLIPS
The latest, news about the ChinaJapanese War is the announcement 
by'the student council of the UNI
VERSITY OF COLORADO that 
a Shanghai Bound and "PreWar dance will be held next 
week. Who said that war dancing 
ended with the American Indians?
And heres more news! Fresh
man co-eds at NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY are going to aid 
China in her controversy with 
Japan by not purchasing Japanese 
tea.
At WISCONSIN credit is given 
for informal dormitory or frater
nity discussions (bull sessions) 1 in 
the belief that the conversation of 
students outside the classroom is 
as effective as the classroom lec
tures.
Wanta take a snap course? TEM
PLE UNIVERSITY offers credits 
for studies in Social Etiquette; 
BARNARD COLLEGE rants 
credits to all who take the course 
in Resting on the roof of Bar
nard Hall;; NEW. YORK UNI
VERSITY offers credits in Per
sonality , Development; SOUTH
ERN CALIFORNIA encourages 
students to look Up their family 
trees in a course in Geneology; 
Waiting on Table is in the cur
riculum at OHIO STATE. Take 
your pick.
The year book at McGILL UNI
VERSITY this. year, will contain a 
feature section of student wander
ings after graduation from that 
school.
Among the acquisitions of the 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY li
brary in the last year is the oldest 
dictionary extant in Japan. The 
book is a manuscript dating from 
1181 A.D., covering 500 pages and 
containing 3,000 words.
The UNIVERSITY OF TO
RONTO has inaugurated an exten
sion course for the benefit of the 
general public. The program will 
be broadcast over the radio for 
forty successive week-nights, and 
regular class lectures will be pre
sented. If you should cut an im
portant class, just tunc in on the 
radio and the prof will never know 
the difference. .
The dean of men at HARVARD 
UNIVERSITY recently predicted 
that  the college fraternity system 
will decline, and that Greek letter 
organizations will be a thing of 
the past.
A man touring Europe sent a 
picture post card to his son at an 
American1 college with the. follow
ing message on the reverse side: 
Dear Son: On the other side you
will see the rock from which the 
Spartans used to throw their de
fective children. Wish you were 
here.
College Jewelry Seal Stationery PennantsC. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students Supplies
The ONLY genuine Lifetime0 guarantee I' SheafFers; do not be deceived! Other pens may be guaranteed a^ajnst defect, but SheafFer' Life
time0 is guaranteed against everything excepting loss for your lifetime. SheafFers Lifetime0 pen* from $7; Sheaffera Feathertouch Lifetime0 pen* from $8; Sheaffers Autograph Lifetime0 -with 14- karat solid gold band suitable for duplicate of your actual signature (serving for identification) from $13.50. Autograph pencils from $9. Other SheafFe? pens from $3, pencils from $2.50.
Heres a real news flash from Sheaffer to the college world 
... announcing the new Feathertouch point! Speeds class
room notes. Fast as greased li&htnin& in action... as soft 
as a feather in its silk-smooth stroke! Sheaffer designers 
achieved Double-Control Flow for the first time in any pen! 
Specially treated upper &old section retards the flow to 
heart pierce, forming reservoir, while platinum - glazed 
channel induces just the ri&ht flow to iridium point. With 
incredible ease Feathertouch flashes your written work 
to a quick finish! Now available in all Lifetime0 pens.
Sheaffer First in American Colleges
A disinterested survey shows Sheaffer first in fountain pen sales In 73 out of th 100 leading American Colleges having a registration of 1700 or more.
SAFBTY SKRIP. SKRIP- FILLED, 50c up. Carry non- leakablo Safety Skrip in your pocket or bsfc to classprotects clothes, linens, furniturekeeps fluid fresh, making all pens writ* better.
Non-sorority co-eds at the UNI
VERSITY OF UTAH have form
ed an organization known as 
Phraterics. It is an outgrowth of 
the mens section of the Barbs 
organization, made up of nonfraternity men.
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY  FORT MADISON, IOWA, U.S. zh 
And All Principal Cities of the World so. a. *. r*t.os. , )w.A.8.r.c.,trca
The latest collegiate stunt for 
the news column is hitch-hiking 
by air. An undergraduate of MAR
SHALL COLLEGE at Hunting
ton, W. Va.,' thumbed his way 
from the school to San Francisco, 
entirely bjr the air route.
The old thought that college 
presidents arc always held aloof 
from the students and their activi
ties was thrown into the discard 
recently at the UNIVERSITY OF ' 
DETROIT. Four students were 
struggling vainly to start their car 
in, the lowering dusk of the cam
pus when one of them hailed a 
passing motorist with th saluta
tion, Iicy, Buddy, how about a 
push? The student turned sickly 
white when a close-up showed {hat 
the man he hailed was the presi
dent of the university. However, 
the prcxy cheerfully gave them a 
push and sent them on their weary 
way homeward.
At MARQUETTE UNIVERSI
TY this year the Prom chairman 
was elected by the flip of a coin. 
One co-ed was undecided as to 
how she should vote, so after 
listening to the ballyhoo of the 
leading contestants backers, she 
decided the flip of a coin would 
best solve the problem. Iicr choice 
was elected, chosen by the margin 
of one vote:
Here is the newest suggestion as 
to how to pass your spare time. 
An English professor at OHIO 
STATE says that college students 
should read fairy talcs instead of 
the modern bunk that is published 
as literature.
In a survey conducted at the 
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS it was 
found that sophomore men spend 
less shekels than the frosli. How
ever, after the sophomore year, the 
students expenses increase again.
J. O. Horning Dies
The Carnegie Tartan, faculty mem-* 
bcrs, and student friends wish to 
send their mutual sympathies to Jack 
Horning, a senior in the Mechanical 
Engineering Department, whose rather; 
died Saturday. Mr. Horning was 
y^e president and treasurer of the 
Mesta Machine Company. Funeral 
services will be held this afternoon.
Lets smoke a
MANS
SMOKE!
W
HEN the girls begin to cut cor
ners in our ears and do back 
somersaults in our planes and borrow our cigarettes 
then its time to take to a pipe!
Call \it the last 
stronghold of mas
culine defenceor 
the one pet diversion our little 
friends keep their 
fingers off. Call it 
what you will 
theres something 
downright satisfy
ing, understanding, compani onable about a friendly, mellow, M.ASCULINE pipe! Its a real mans,'smoke!
And a jiipes at 
its best when you fill it up wi jtli Edgeworth. Theres a 
rare, mellow flavor 
to the Edgeworth blend of 
fine burleys that simply cant be 
touched. Its cut 
longto gvve you 
A pipt'g a a cool, slow-burn-man's nmoka g smoke. And
youll find it the favorite with smokera in 42 out of 54 colleges.
You can get Edgeworth wherever 
good tobacconists sell smokes. But if 
youve never tried it, wed like the fun 
of treating you to that first satisfying 
pipeful. Just write to Larus & Bro. Co., 
105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old burley, i 
with its natural savor enhanced bp-Edge-l 
worths distinctive 
and exclusive elev* 
enth ,process. Buy 
Edgeworth any
where in two forms 
EdgeworthReddyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All 
sizes, 15(5 pocket 
package to $1.50 
pound humidor tin.
i
