VOL. 30. NO. 3CARNEGIK, INSTITUTE OF TH^OLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TESPAY, OCTOBER IS; J935
Dormitory Men Want 
HolidayDates Changed; 
Petition is Circulated
Xmas Vacation to Begin 
Dec. 20, End Jan. 6 
Is Bequest
STUDENT COUNCIL 
IS ACTING TONIGHT
Petition Will Undergo Vote; 
Majority of Campu 
Men Favor Change
Asking for a change in the dates 
ol the Christmas vacation period, 
group of dormitory men headed 
tv J. (Roland Hill '36, president 
,;(be VOL.3 Dormitory Council, last 
week presented a petition to Stu
dent Council. The petition request-, 
ed that the Christmas vacation be
gin on December 20' instead of 
December 16 and end on January 6 
instead * ' ".'day i days.Addison L. Gilmore, president ot Student Council said that the petition bad been' presented, but that so action bad been taken. Instead Ute petition was . referred to a dal committee, chalnnaned George Klttrldge 36, for further In- TeBtlgaticm.N The committee, alter, consultation with school. authorities, will  .....
lory Council, the proposed change would entail ho loss of.school .(he two extra days iwilL b..'included In a v?eek end, school begin- nlng oa Monday instead: of Thn'rS' day. He was of .the .opinion that (be majority of; thqi donn'ltory; boy fl were In favor, of. the latdr holldayv
basis that Carnegie  waJa practically the only school In this section of the: country which began and ended the vacation at such early dates. "We get home and have to wait three or four days before they girls and boys from other schools get. In
flays before' they. d6," Mr. Robinson eald. Both he and Gleri.B. Daugh*
boya bad to miBs parties' on' New Years Eve and New. Years night lo order to get back to. school time. One of the chief objections throughout the dormitories tc present arrangement seemed.to be Hat the majority of the boys had i New Tears day or the
Interview, gave another viewpoint on the situation. "Tlie school, he id, "has in the past tried to allow as much time- as possible before Christmas so that those who wish lo may secure employment in merclijmtile establishments posi offices during the holiday rush. In former years the number who secured such work was comparatively high. At the preaent; how- erer. I believe that the percentage has fallen off'' considerably. According to Mr. Gilmore th.Utlon will be allowed .to circulate whether the Student Coxincil approves of it or not, as th final deci: slon rests with tlie Board of DlrecEducational 
Group Meets
five Faculty Members 
Represent Carnegie
Carnegie Institute of Technoiogy, ill be represented bv four faculty, embers at the Western Pennsylvania Education- conference which held in Pittsburgh, 'October
.Professor Gen U. Cleeton, Jlead ot the Department of Industrial Education, and Mr. Clifford B. Con- "e*y. former Dean, of the College industries, ^fe among the mem- of the Advisory committee, professor Edwin G. 01ds,s Depart- went of Mathematics, is chairman J the Mathematics section, which li meet October 19 in Room 104, industries building. Miss Huldah  Kenley, professor of Public 
n. Muaic. will speak ' on 'The ^^ations. and .Training of the 
0N . Muslc Supervisor. . from the  iS u ? Vfew of the Critic' TheateT 
CA REGI SchoilMusic in a.Liberal w* ColleSe  Mrs; Esthr Topp iiaI?nds- Professor of Paintlngand of ?wiI1 speah on The Analysis  Modern Trends',in. Painting at e meeting 0f thFine Artssec: . October 1$.: In the Little thea- College of Pine Arts.;.Mustriai. Artaacttnwll hold -'nt meeting with the.Vocational 'oanc section in th Tintri ot J ynstries blinding, October -18
K,SS,T inference .replaces the an: cachera Institute, the pur- lde  * .wl^ch .8-. to discussv meth* teaching. curriculum ind class-r schools. .*ory  for -Allegheny- coutity H*lUburgh teachers.. -Teach- dm other distrlcU are invited.
IndustriesBuilding 
Unnamed 30 Years
Unchrlstened since its construction, tbe Industries building has finally acquired a name. Known as Industries by th students for years, ' it was not' until the last meeting of the Esecutive Bosrd that this building which boused the former College of Industries, was given an official name.Members of tbe Board, after deliberation, decided upon Industries Hall as an: appropriate title for the forgotten.''
Perhaps an invstigatlon should be conducted about
see if they are official yt.
4 Professors 
Enter 1935 
International
Members of Fine Arts 
Faculty Exhibit One 
' 'Painting Each
wilt be represented in .the Carnegie International Exhibition of Paintslngs, It was announced October JO at-.Carnegie Institute:
Each of; the painters will have a single; painting. In the: exhibition.' Roy Hllton-wlll how the Young Artist  the second of his paintings to be given .a place in a Carnegie International. He was -represented in the 1993 exhibition: Hilton studied under Eric Pape and at the: Art Students' league, and won the Carnegie Institute prize In the'1932 exhibition of the Associate Artists of Pittsburgh.;
Prfssor KoBtellow studied at the Art Students League In New.York and at the National Academy ot Design: He received n-honrable mention in the 19B3 International.
Samuel Rosenberg will exhibit a picture .called Side Show.
. With Black Twins,'an- animal study, Everett Warner will seek an International award to. add to the many he . has won at the Cor*, coran.' Gallery, the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, and the National Academy of pesign.
made imember of- the National Academ 
in 1913. .
Interfraternity 
Council Holds 
First Chapel
?*Faitii . and tbe Human 
Adventure Is Topic 
Of Today6 Talk
FRESHMEN MUST 
ATTEND SERVICE
Special Musical Program 
Is Arranged  Begins 
Promptly at 11:30
Dr. Bernard c. Clausen will ad
dress the first -Chapel service of 
the year today. The  service will 
be held at 11:30 In the Little The
ater In the College cf Fine Arts; 
and is sponsored by Iuterfraternlty council. Dr Charles Watkins, 
acting president, will be in charge 
of the service '
Tjaith and the Human Adven
ture will be the subject of Dr. 
Clausens talk. Dr. Clausen Is pas
tor of the First Baptist church. He hae spoken frequently on the pus. l^Bt year he spoke at a chapel service o&d also addressed the^ Christian Association corn
The Department of Music will assist' by rendering a musical program. Besides this special music, tbe sponsors are placing . special emphasis' on group singing. - 
Freshman attendance at chapel .is compulsory. lu order to create an . Interest for these -^services among the upperclassmen, various organizations, on tbe campus are sponsoring these bi-weekly serv- icep; During the school year at least one chapel will be sponsored by 'each recognized group.
What to Do 
With Traffic?
Answer Gives T. Bardzil 
: Harvard Fellowship *
^LI^eci_QlvW#hJI^siKIuxe8 JH^^rhomaa^J^.-BardziIr^Jigrqiu^l- Alexander J.: Kostellows entry, of the Department of ArchitectureDepart]Carnegie Tech, has been awarded a. fellowship at Harvard uni* versity'for this year to undertake a study of .the joint problem of traffic control englQeerlng and city plauuing.The fellowship, worth- $1,200 the winner,, was given by the Automobile Manufacturing association
School oS:,-City Planning at Har vard. The competition for the award was nation-wide and open to men in any department of any recognized college or university who received their Bachelor grees since January 1. 1933.Bardzil was graduated from negie Tech in 1934 with the Bachelor of Architecture degree. -1 ceived his master s degree in June of this year for bis thesis plan for handling, traffic in downiir. Watkins Geli Tagged ,
Dr. CharleB Watkins, acting .president, being tagged by Beatrice 
Archer '36, Guild'president,: as.annual Tog drive starts Monday. Mls6 
Mary W. Green, dean-of women, lo waiting her turn....
II Committei
Heads Named 
By Gilmore
Elections, Social Budget 
Chairmen Take Up | 
Duties at Once
ArtsCourses
World Diplomats Not Even 
Honest Thieves Says Dr. Ross
England and France Bent on Retaining World War 
LootTech Professor Sees Idealistic Phrases 
Used,To Enlist American Sympathy
 By Or. .Sameul Rose Once again, men of God Bishop.; Mamiing <
ed off the s'anctirr.cuious halo which she wears When preserving international Justice . and the 
tegrity of small iiatloijs. All the familiar signs point to the imgreat injustice.In. the last, similar trumpet blasts to all that was high, and holy herald- each new outfage against humanity andjustic
for democracy aiid for justice, the great need is for nations which will frankly announce them- :1V6S bent upon th despoilatlon 1 the weak or the. retention' of the loot of the last war. - For com- ehenslon of international affairs e : Americans' require honest 
thefveiy.dulcet accents of___________ ough.they.fa11 from.ttte. llps of international footpads apparently mislead; our best and ost righetous citizens.
The forthrightness of a Dlllinger would be a refreshing aud helpful Ireath in council, chambers 
world diplomacy. "'- and :
a murderthlef, but an honest one. claimed that he was sav... humanity !or democracy that he was making anythin safe 
for an ideal. The English and the French are
not so frank. They mask themselves behind the League of Nations. Its principal occupation has been the' perpetuation of the injustices of the Versailles Treaty and related treaties which gave France and England mandates, oil, aud a position of supremacy in Europe. The League CunUshed an aura of legality of the despoliation of the central powers. Exccpt for the gold krald and stiff shirts, the management of the League resembles that of a wardheelers- convention. Control rests in the hand of a few .members,. England and-France.
The League required more  than a year to decide aipon the propriety of Japanese invasion of Manchuria, but only seven days to envision Italy as a danger to civilization. Some believe that the great e; speed is explained by the greatNotwithstanding,. .England-. and France are. the nations chosen by th' good Bishop as. our pals 1 *-,<- next crusade of the holy nations 'gainst the unholv. Yet who does nt -remember the lies - published under the management of. the British government to .draw sympathy to. the Belgians'*were stories of cutting off the hands of Belgian children, and ot the murder ofmbattants, all
sucked into the.last declared a number ot -tho present Congress. He might haya observed what is common Information In Europe, that, we, are the worlds easy mark. The most poisonous concotione that interna- tinripi duplicitv.xan. dish un  nr- taken at a.-gulp.if there he attached in a conspicuous place the label of' ahiphJdeaI.--OurmIelefldideall0l8 are already working on .the label.
Eleven-members of Student Gonucil have been appointed to head; ^i iont . , .of the.seasons football danceB will ilttees by president Additai be |nau6rated. X The dance wlll.be
----------------...........-.....Robert Greiner, appointed chair
man of elections .-will begin his 
work Immediately. He is to super
vise the election of freBhman of- - fleers which  will. take' place
Considerable workrha
. compllshed the social mlttee headed by William Holiday an d by Richard ' Hammond chairman ' of the budget committee. 'Mr'.' Hammond also has -charpe the CommunityFund campaign.
Assisting in tbe Community 
drive will be five Junior class rep
resentatives.- George Lambertson. 
Edwar Kreh. Alberta McClure. Al
pha Black, and Dorothy BoothOther appointments named 'Rob
ert Croyle as chairman- of freshman 
regulations. Kenneth-Knapp Sprluq 
Carnival. Harold- Mltchner actlvi 
ties keys. Lester Van Valkenburgh 
publications;' Lee Hammerschmidt 
assemblies. Louise Hendersou for
eign affairs.- Carl Dozer equipment, 
and George KitUedge special.
Fence Erected 
On Parking Lot
Lighting Facilities Improved 
In Machinery Hall Area
faulty, brakes caused car to roll over an. embankment, guard rails have been installed on the parking lot at- the rear of Ma1 is made of locust posts 10 inches in diameter and 10 feet apart.. Seven-eighths inch galvanized cables have also been used. The fittings are similar highways., Besides increasing safety, this improvement will enlarge the parking
been increased'for the.benefit ot night school students.. Flood lights In the parking.area at 5137 Margaret Morrison street, will also be installed in the-near future: and eral other improvements planned for this lot will :be completed
For return of large, flat purse -ithzinper top. , Contained.glasses;- keys, fountain pen. etc. - Lost vin. field behind inflrmarv..by Miss EleTemple Grid 
Dance Opens 
Fall Series
First Function Features 
Al Bohls Orchestra; 
Admission $1.00.
Ramblers have been booked for tbo music making.
: This first dance will provide -pome, novelty entertainment In the form of a balloofrbubble dahce. Efforts are-being made to have the dance music broadcast overcal hookup. .........
The "Black Cat" refreshment lounge in the lower foyer- will be open until midnight. Members of the football squad and their dates will be admitted free. For others the admission charge Is $1.00 per couple.- On-several prevlous-occaslons Al Buhl haB been heard on the Carnegie Campus. He' has played for the Fraternity Sing and Swing. Women's. Junior' Prom, and -the Inter- soroity formal. His tunes have appealed to the dancers at Princeton and Penn State 'Informal dress will be In or<
Plebes Will Elect 
Officers Tuesday
New Methods of Balloting 
Allow Greater Privacy
11:30 to-1:30. Petitions for uoml- nations for elections must be in at the Christian association office by 1:30 today.A new system of voting will "be tried in the College of Engineering ding to Robert. Greiner -'36. chairman of elections. Special tables will be arranged' In the front of the  Administration building so that eac(i voter will havecasting his- ballot. It is hoped that tills will eliminate the usual electioneering around, the ballot box.By Friday, fourteen petitions had been received, from Margaret Morthe special election of senior sen- representative in Margaret Morrison. : maaaasThe ballots will be counted Tuesday afternoon after the elections tc tho -Christian -association. nffJce. Anyone Interested may. watch- the lunting.- /
Annual Military 
Ball November 8
Military Ball plans i taking shane.hsldj;- -------
already The dance wlll be Thistle- hall. Friday.-.No- ember 8. from lO .tlll .l. -l'he ad
mission charge ,this year -WllL.be $3-00' per couple. - This - will Include favors which .have, never . before been offered. Jack McKee.-Department of Civil Engineering, is In charge of arrangements.- He has appointed the following . committee:., chairmen: .publicity and - -tickets; Howard Means: orchestra, and. program?,
First Tag Day 
Returns Show 
Total of $56.31
Receipts for Monday 
Exceed Total For 
.Last Year
DRIVE COLLECTIONS 
TO AID NEEDY
V enthuGuild Officers Enthusiastic 
Over Hearty Cooperation 
Of Student Body
total < year rtotaled only $26.73.
Officers ot the Guild slastlo over the results of the first uay s.campaigning. They attributed, the-unusual success to a moro oom- plete canvassing of. the campus and the cooperation of the men who contributed liberally.
The drive will end today at 4:30.. This is one ot the-best tag days the Guild haa ever had." said Miss Archer, president of tbe organization. -The student body hnB responded much more than we hoped I .hops the good showing will continue until the drive is over.
The money contributed will be used for philanthropic purposes, which includes the scholarships and the collection of Christmas toys tor needy children. Beatrico Archer '36, president .of Guild haB namad Adelaide Remington- '37 and Eulalia Eckstein 97 co-chairmen of the- affair.
As there will be no Charity Ball this year, the Guild will appeal to the student body for help only ou Tag days. All students are asked to contribute, it only a small sum.
A Guild dinner will be held In the Faculty Club room of Carnegie Inn tomorrow night Miss Mary Watson Green, Dean of Women, will- be:.a guest- for' tho occasion. Plans for tbe year's activities will be discussed. Mary Louise Picket S7, is in charge ot arrangementsStudy Modeling, Music, 
Painting, Architecture
accepted In the Department of Architecture. Painting and Design. Sculpture: and Music, upon this recfield of Interest The music dents-are required to pay for Individual. lessons -however, but. a apethe Department of Sculpture won
astlc exhibition, held April 23 to May 12. These students competed with other students from all.over the country. Irene Von Horvath: a pupil from Winchester, was awarded the flrsf prize of $25 for her entry. and Adolph DIoda of Allqttippa High school was awarded second
Students and Faculty 
Asked to Subscribe 
To Community Fund
STUDENT HEAD
Richard D. Hammond '36, named o direct student welfare drive.
Cwens Stage 
Revolutionary
Teatime Dance: t :
Carl Leachs Orchestra 
Supplies: Music "As 
Everyone Dances
Cwens, . women s - sophomore 
-honorary, will -hold its first tea 
dance of the year on Thursday: h 
Thistle haU> from 4 to 6 o'clock. 
rt:fll.-LBitc?i!s .arflhostp&r^m-furnlBh^ 
the. music. Refreshments wlll^ be 
served.
The Cwens are trying to break, 
the ^.monotony of Carnegie tea 
dances. . Up to. the present, tea 
dances have mehnt two hours ot 
dancing for boyB and a fewi selected 
co-eds. 'Many glrlB have been-left 
sitting In the lobby bewailing tbe 
fact that they spent a quarter tc 
sit and watch someone else danco. 
Cwens are trying to do away with 
this situation. They are endeavor
ing to make tea dances two hours 
of recreation for all who attend 
Therefore, they have, devised a way whereby everyorie will be dancing, without having girls.dance, together, closing tlthe hour of the dance.
Besides the promise that ctt will be dancing, the Cwens are'offering a floor show by students, from the department of Di
Mary Yorke is chairman of the dance committee and will bq aided- by Maxine Foster. Katherine Ihomas. Adelaide Ascbmann Jane Lloyd, and Olivia HornerBetter Plan for Pennsylvania
Relief Agencies Is Outlined
Mrs. Mary Clark Burnett Suggests Cash Be Given 
Only for Necessities; Medical, Institutional 
Services Granted by Special Orders
Magazine Mrs. Mary Clark Burliett, who la the head of the Department if Social Work, wrote an article entitled State Aid For Private Agencies."
Mr6. Burnett aays that Pittsburgh has tbe "doubtful dlstlnc- of having Its own state relief -a very confusing one. T____slon was so evident thatspecial committee was appointed lae tbe state of affairs, neither advocated nor condemned the aid system but gave eeyen principles wHIch would lead-to ia better' irgaulzatioR- and. a.."better, allocation ot.aproprlatlons/v These facts extend to every' . state where the eystem Is in operation, but the implications made are intended mainly 'or Pittsburgh.
The first principle . states that No institution or agency should re*. :elve -state aid unless the- service- it renders is one; for which there, exists a generally recognized need. The second polnt states the . fact that-'nO'1nstitutiot:-sbould-bc given state-aid which does not actually need financial help. -If theaq .two principles would be acted upon, improper and Inefficient,organizations would be disbanded and useful Institutions'would receive the needed
Mrs. Burnetts . third statement 'ery: clearly says that no iQBtltur Ion or agency should-receive state- aid unless.a.coordinated statewide program: will be promoted by. the
services of such agency."v Mrs. Burnett further shows that an institution performing a given service can not be eligible for state aid, and that "no . institution or
with the poi Icy v of the _ formulated -by the Department', oi  rery agency,Welfare, 
conformset by the state:That -State aid should be given
and that> receive state aidstandards
be continued,-this .movement is to be desired. ;The present sys-' tem of poor relief in: Pennsylvania has :no general policy because-it too. closely: resembles chaos:- If everyone interested In: or connected with .welfare- work would seriously conslder.y-the  statistics and information- given .by- Mrs. Bur- nett.. hundreds of .needy, organizations and people .would benefit. As: Mrs.- Burufett- says.vrEf-rtictp-' lents:of public relief are given cash
orders ' for medical service which cannot  be^ budgeted., or for auch other- forms of institutional-care as may be requlred. the .danger-of demoralizing: therellefreciplentwlll be .lessened : and the.; necessity tor. subsidizing-:private agencies giving, service to the. poor will be eliminatr
$6,000 Named as Quota 
To Be Contributed 
By November 7
HAMMOND HEADS 
CARNEGIE PROGRAM
Will be Assisted by Faculty, 
Council Appointees In 
Securing Pledgee
Executives ot iho Ciiir.muiuf-- 
Fund have asked the students and 
Itculty ^nembWs of. Carnegie .Insti-:- 
u;to ot Tephnqlogy to subscribe  
their quota ot- $6;000 .prlor./tortho-- 
formal opening of the :Gommucltyt: 
Fund drlvo on Novembers 7. >
Mr. John D. Beatty.-Bureau-of 
Recommondatlons. Is in oharge- ot 
the drive at Carnegie; He will bo 
aided by Mrs. L. J. Moore; aaeist* 
ant controller. Rollin V. Davis, 
secretary ot tho Christian' associu^ 
lion, will:act as treasurer for. the 
studont campKlgn . as. in formor 
years. .Richard D. Hnmmond '86, 
has been .named student director: 
Student council bas named; tho 
following students to head the 
drives in ihoir respective.collcgeBi 
Alpha Blook *37, Dorothy Bontii o 
Alberta McClure.. '37, . and Jane-. .- 
Tlemon 37, Margaret Morrison 
Thomas Koehler 87, and Willi ( 
Slocum '38, Arts;1 and Lee Hait - 
merschmldt '87, Ed.ward Kroh *ii 
and Georg Lambertson' .'37, Jfinsl  
neorlng. ' Student committees .will -. 
be appointed at- nB -Jater dat6. >.
Babh- ^tiTdeiit -win ^J <foi}Wctcfl : at an early date and QBked . to; pledge , a sum for the fund.-. No specific amount will be aBked, >bjtt > ' $1.00 per student will be the The pledge card.may oe slgncd aad1 ; t}ie money-paid at abater date 
The federal- and'State. ..govern*.:: raonls,:through tax tunds, ar?, PtChAllegheny county. None ot thte money, however,-can^ be used .for the- suportof. organizations (inolu^,.. ed. in the Community Fund. Thesev agencies supply -such vital need:.  as- medical' care.for the-sick, home nursing -service;, core of homelCQs; and neglected ^children. preveption'. -' of delinquency, guioauce^to.^bnth,; and service to demoralized fam.^ Hies 4
None of egD .2 0,Edct cJD6EdD0I . benefiting from the fund draw:.a. uoilar of relief money. They are . not providing unemployment relief
Chas.Stotz Wins 
Housing Award
Receives $500 for Design 
Of Small Family House
Charles M. Stotz. once a student . ' at Carnegie Tech. was.: awarded: the .first prize of $600 in a contest . : sponsored by the Alletrb'sy *rally Better Housing Commlttee^and > tho Pittsburgh Press for the'de*- sign of a home for a: famllyr.of;: four. Other men from Camegie:- Tecli who- were given ^ awards:, were: Thomas C. Pratt '30, Arsene--- Tvoiifisenu 34. Ronert- W. Scbmevtz^ . 21. J. Vernan Wilson 13 C J Pellegrini 22, W. W. Hart 36,; and-j-Elkai37.
One unique rule ot the contcst^i; is that the house must be design- :v:; [ for one .of three typical  Pitts?^ss burgh lots. The design-which: took ^ first place was- selected because-of1; lts. excellence of, arranL.'nu ill Ti f" principle rooms on the ground floor open upon the -garden. and\tie ^ garage is at .the' front of the-build* - Ing near the street. Another fea'-'' ..of the house Is the.a^diUouat^ lavatory provided  In tlis iSSement^'T where it is convenient1-for. use'-by.'': the family or by a servant* 
Theta Tau Hears* 
ProfessorKenyovf';
speak at vho two cu!taral-<meetings of Theta Tau. - nationals , engineering v. 'honorary .; ^.'socieiy,.'?'-'? which will be held Jn thd Commons ..- - annex at 4:30.. October 22 aud Iat.^5 30, October 29
set of selected books covQnng* (he cultural subjects: to .be discuss^ ed In the Theta Tau talks wimi^- available in- the .Hut for students.-.^ Other , talks in. the serieB/^ill iti^ elude discussions :of-pafnting.?idV
Dr Glendmning KeeUle, H< the Department^ot Music * ciiss mublc and such oth<. Jeftts as- archHecture. andseer! will. be brought?Wore tfce^sr.

---------------------------------------------------

arhe Cairne^c 3Tartaa
PBONE MA.TFLOWER 3
Men 943S* 
nter 9166
Published i oates ot Csi nttabusb F<
[nrtlbiU of Technology.  as wod-tlaa matter.
Palier AdABusD
 TYPISTS:STAFF ARTISTS: C.' So Fuller, "Robert' Roblson JUNIOR EDITORS: Richard Byrne. Toby Crow, I
Community FundS
OMETIME in the next week you are going to be 
approached by a student volunteer worker ask
ing you to pledge your financial help to tbe Com' 
munity Fund. What will yon do?.
 Before you answer this question it would be well 
to understand just why your money is needed and 
what your, little bit will help to accomplish. 
/.'The Community Fund'was formed to accomplish
. in one drive what Its 82 members achieved by con
tinuous petitioning and door bell ringing. However,
 it is more than a campaign: It is a 365 day-per-year 
organization which is applying efficient methods of 
nance feed administration to a $3,000,000 charity 
program. The financial'goal set by the Fund is de tenuined by a careful budget. This budget is based 
lifton.a thorough study of Ihe budgets of the social 
/agencies which it represents. Thus instead of hap
hazard relief methods we are insured; that our money 
-will be used efficiently in a sound, intelligent program ofvsoclal relief.
' The paid executive staff of the Community Fund 
'Vis 'mall-anil: the Funds management Jies directly 
: with business, and professional leaders who recog niz this as a community job. Its total overhead 
amounts to only 4.5 per cent. - 
V  jo Pittsburgh today there are compJiated domesItic .problems which threaten to disintegrate families, 
warp personalities, and make children dependent 
 upon public welfare. Trained workers from family
 service societies are-skilled in' adjusting these prob lems,, maintaining family, life, and keeping it normal 
/ end; wholesome.
Community' Fund statistics point out that it-costs. 
'aboutten dollars to give a boy or girl trained le^d;-.-ersblp and.supervised recreation. It costs rom $300 
}. i : to ;$B0(|: to ..care for the same child in Correctional 
'.institution.
This, then, is the worlc of the Community Fund 
{to keep children out of such institutions and nourish 
: . them and their parents.
-Carnegie Institute ol Technology has been given 
v the opportunity to lead this great community en. deayor.- Tour pledges, large or small, will assure 
^K'ttsburgh .that .the students of Carnegie -Tech, are' 
 yitally Interested ia the,welfare ot their less for'tnat_fellow-men.
for the conrealence of the^tndent body or the men
tal wellbeing of'the staff. Too often is the entireblamo for this ^condition 'thoughtlewly-'lald to the 
staff of The Thistle. A large portion of the cause 
may be traced directly lo the atudent body itself. 
Individuals .and organizations who fall to meet- the 
deadline for. the taking of pictures, which constitute: 
the most important Item In ttie volume and signifi
cance: of he yearbook, so retard the production pro* 
cess-that It Is impossible for the; book to meet a 
proper date of release. This does more than create 
a dissatisfied market: It endangers the editorial
success of the book inasmuch as the staff, in Its 
effort to quicken production, must execute much of 
Its work without proper'attention to detail; It en
dangers the financial success of the book In that 
many prospective purchasers have- left tbe campus 
by.tlie time It Is off the press..
When an announcement is made by The Thistle 
that pictures are to be taken on or before a certain 
date, it is to tbe Interest of each campus individual 
and organlzaion and to the student body os a whole, 
that the deadline be met This is not offered as an 
excuse for a tardy yearbook, but as a preemption 
wfifoh will'bring a better yearbook":to. the students? 
of Carnegie, on time.
.. Election ChangesI
 T LOOKS as though-there will be a New Dsai in 
.operation .when, freshmen cast their votes for 
;; class officers next Tuesday.'
 >': In the College of Engineering a trial system of 
.-balloting will be In effect. An area will be blocked 
' off and only those casting ballots will be allowed
near the ballot box. This will be unwelcome news 
 for the .'politicians who take such .keen delight in 
.marking other peoples ballots.
!.'> ."Wien Mr. Greiner as chairman of elections an' Bounced the change in procedure, he termed it purely.:experimental/' But why experiment only in the 
^College of Engineering? A record of past voting 
/ ahowH that the women Irave had tiieir share of ballot 
i'box trouble.. Why do.a thing in halves, let tlie woV;'ihen in on the experiment. 
';The new system wont eliminate electioneering,
 vbut.it will,make- It possible to mark a vote without 
:i the. aid of tbe kibitzers, back-slappers, .friends, and 
liigh-pressure artiste.
v Mr- Greiner seems to be taking a real interest In 
'hfa new duties. Ia addition to. his "experiment" lie 
> 6. another plan, which U successful, will revolu'tionize campus election day.
would install Voting- machines. 
..^'The.idea is entirely feasible. Moreover it is edu^'iional. In many sections of the country the voting 
^raa^hine is replacing the balloting system. The chief 
. drawback to the use of tlie'voting machine is that
 :few citizen8 are familiar, with the mechanics of its 
-^operation. To teach: college-students, potenial votXers', how to operate'a machine would be a lesson In 
-.one^of the responsibilities of citizenship.
.' ^. Administration officers can And no fault with the 
/'' proposal.. Tlie machines would: have to be secured 
Vfrom the City of .Pittsburgh; .But it is understood 
yv.tliat . Mayor McNair :^nd :several high city officials 
have endorsed tlie. plan. ,
rifC'Tfre.'would like to see the opportunity of individual 
yoting extended to the women. .We believe Me. 
;vGreiners' ^'experiment ,wiii-be a success. It de'^srves the co-operation of every right-thinking polit
ically minded student And we anxiously await the 
s announcement. "Voting machines for- Carnegie.
' Thistle Cooperation Urged
* - A DEADL1NE Is- as'Important to the journalist as 
prompt -departure.la .to a modern passenger 
^traln-^A delay defeats the purposeof .either.* for In 
'^cli cms Ainlesa the': planned schedule is met the 
-.service to the public Is not properly rendered 
:-^feIn:?the^cflse'.' of. a college yearbook,- where, success-: 
i^UrediUniig -depends 'upon- the -co-operation of the en-, 
Ufo^student organizatlon. there is a vast amount' of  
_aatrlil.-'wh'lcli- must-be. ooUected and tvorked-upon. 
^rm'-ihe'umxner precodlng.until the time thebook 
^gears>foT. sal e.A d el ay; in the proceedings of any 
'^flp'artSient'dE'tbe staff-will-hold; up tli entire pro-. 
'ic\lon process. - The demand for co-operation from: 
^Jlvaources'^co'EtxibutlDg. to the publication is ap*,
^ - -n - -x.
^"^^"^typertlnent'pnd timelyIllustration of this point Is 
^ vJn the taking of senior and group pictures, 
after year Carnegies yearbook The.Thletle, 
ecampuB'too.it;
CHARGE IT
Anne Walsh'plunked down the dishes in the 
kitchen sink. The Iceman was- at the door, his 
account book in his hand. "Tony," she began, 
Im Bon-y, but I cant pay you today.
"Well, any; time-that Im around will do, Mrs. 
Walsh.
'im afraid you wont have to come around 
any more, Tony. We just'bought an electric re
frigerator. Ill have to pay you in installments 
because we will have to make payments on it, 
too. Will that be all right? Just then the baby 
began to cry, aud she left him without giving 
him & chance to answer. c
' As Anne fed Joyce she thought about tbe pay* 
ment. on the new electric stove, that was due 
that day. She had some money. If she made 
the payment, however, she could not very well 
get the.new permanent she needed so badly. 
She hadtoget a new pair of shoes, too; perhaps 
they..couidLhe charged at GardB. If the manage^ 
ment said ttidt a payment must be made before 
anything could be charged, she could go across 
the street and open an account there. Even bet*, 
ter, she could barely hint at doing that. Rather 
than lose' a customer, Gards would let her charge

By EdwapPickardt> TftggnNaapflpgtAdO
 Baron Alois!
Coming out of her reverie, Mrs. William Walsh 
scrambled into street clothes,' chucked her 
daughter Joyce into her clothes, and dashed to 
the corner .for a street car. Arriving.atGards 
she calmly executed her plan and left. Lo, the 
poor managerhe had to grit his' teeth and 
watch her walk coolly into the store across the 
street, with three packages that had just been 
charged.
. The manager of Blums was more difficult .to 
bring around.. Anne had to say rather sharply 
. that bards had given her a charge account, and she couldn't see  * * Here she was rewarded, and-half an hour later she was still trying on - dresses, whllie Joyce walled on a nearby chair wlthva saleslady.fussing over her. Finding what . she. wanted,. she; rode home triumphantly withv.ij.- WatH
_ . ... r Jewelry. .The third article, a serving dish, would be noticed by that catty Mrs. Lewis when.sbe. came with her husband to play bridge in the eveingl  Finally there was the pleasant anticipation of expecting the dress to be delivered. Bill would :probably groan when he saw the prices; she could always answer by counting the new ties and' shirts he had bought lately (they usually werent cheap). Since he had promised her a new dress for a month, he couldn't very well say anything about it. Her silent soliloquy went on as she: made beds, washed dishes, and tended to Joyce. She had lunch and cleaned the house before she went to the grocery store. On the way there she planned the dinner and refreshments. When she entered, Mr. LauderhofT- looked up and came to wait on her. As he laid the bread on the counter, he paused. Anne recognized the. signs.
Four pork chops, please. As he wrapped them, he began, Mrs. Walsli, about your bill * * *> is it getting large?" asked Anne innocently. *Tli have to see to it. A can of corn and a can of peaches. '
ould appreciate a payment." "Yes,
husband tonight, she adde'd. as he approached again.. "A. head of. lettuce and that will be all. 
She left . All the time she cooked dinner and * arranged for the' supper later,' she thought bit-' terly of Mr. Lauderhoff. At least ten dollars would have to be taken out of Bills check; and . paid to him- By the time Bill came home she was cross. So tlie two fought during the meal. Bill hlamed Anne, of course. He claimed that if she hadnt run up such bills at other places, the grocery-bill could hare been paid before. Anne  -'retaliated.'- She .was sure it was-BJU'-s-fault the:- bills1 were so high. He spent too much on cl- garets and clothes; he was always
.piled u> and washed the dishes.
Afterwards they wandered amicably down to the drug store on <he corner,, pushing the baby irriage.' Here'tliey talked to Tim, the
- of clgarets and a pack. of bridge cards, said Bill. ..-
"And a bag of.tulats, added Anne.
That .brings your bill to nine dollars and twenty cents, said Tim. - Bill hesitated, and, bringing out a dollar, pushed.it across to him.
. There, take that much off. and Ill give you some more the next time we come-in.. Tim mumbled bis.thanks and watched them leaveAnne-was surprised. She had thought Bill did hot have much moneyi and ytt ne paid a uoiiar 'on something that could have been charged. He had spent-that dollar carelessly: Anne could have-used it. She told him so: He merely grunted andilfted Joyce from the carriage. - 
. Soon-after, the .three, other couples arrived and thev eat down to tbe bridge tables. After every* thlng had been duly admired, all the latest topics discussed.- refreshments served and debts set*. tled. -the Walshes found themselves one dollar and thirty cents to-the good. As she was sweetly sayJng goodnight to -the-last of the guests. Anne^was v medutlly-possessing' irei-eelf ot the' dollar.-at least.  Thereforevshe brought up the  subject while - she was emptying ash'trays. Bill.': however.-.claimed the dollar because he had paid .the,dollar at.the drug store.-. Anne claimed it because-she-needed, it* to pay the: papeevboy the : next ;day. - Anyway;, she hadn't told him to pay ; .that:doIlar. :..: r: v;  .  .
> -As she fell . off t . tell the-pa'per boy that she' ' but she hadn t a cent of changein the house Just
B
ECAUSE It was prosecuting ao undeclared war- on - Ethiopia, 
Italy was condemned as a violator 
of tbe covenant of tbe League of Nations and virtu*
Ally declared to be 
ol outlaw against rwfclcb economic 
and -financial sane-  lions are to be ap
plied. '"That was 
the. decision of 52 members of.the 
rleague''In. -a - memorable meeting of 
Its assembly in 
Geneva. Three na
tions, Italy Itself and Austria and Hungary, refused 
to assodate themselves with th assembly's i action. The Austrian 
and Hungarian representatives' already hod announced that they ould not participate in any sanc
tions against Italy because of their political and economic - relations 
1th the Fuselst government.If uuy of the. nutloDS concurring 
In the league's decision fishes.to declare war on Italy, it now has 
the legal right to do so. The na
ture of the penalties to be Imposed 
und the manner of procedure was 
to be determined by a committee' Including nil members of the league 
council, except Italy. and'or.Ita
ly's neighbor nations except Austria 
and Hungnry,.The meeting of the assembly first 
heard an eloquent speceh on Italys 
behalf by her chlcf delegate, Baron 
Pommel Alolsl. He charged that the league had been-unfair, that 
It hod. used iwo weights and two scalesMn its work, that It had -acted 
against! Italy whre- lt; did ' hot act 
against Jnpnn In the Mancharan crisis, that It did not even consider1 Ttnlys complaints against ' Ethlo' "Why not Japan?" be asked. 
Why not Bolivia und Paraguay In 
theiChaco war? Why Italy?Before the decision nation after 
nation registered Its adherence 
the league covenant."I shall make- only. a. brief decln- ratlon, said Pierre Laval of 
France. France will fce hr ob
ligations. I said this before the 
council. I repeat It before the as
sembly. The covenant is our International law. 
Aciion must now be talcen.^sald 
Anthony-IQden of Great Britain. "I declnrc the readiness ot his majes
tys government to take full part In such action.' ;'
. Vladimir Potemkin of Russia an- : nounccd ';that his., government-. ,waS 
dtenilnir to' fulfil!' Its obligations? 
Swlizerlund nlso emphasized- its wllllngnss to participate.No other delegation iins asked 
to spenk,. snid President Benes qui
etly. T Interpret the sllnqe of all 
as indicating- the . concurrence of ' their govprnmonffl relth the on?nifin
of tbe members of tfie.conzjcJI E? 
assembly will plnce this on record."
Aastria and Hungary ennoot of themselves snpply Mossollnl with 
much In the way . of raw materials 
for war; i>ot there Is th chance that-he asy receive, thrftnjjh those 
countries, materials from Germany 
If Ihe.nentrnltty proclaimed by Hitler does not preveat Already the 
Mg packing companies of Brazil 
hare suspended negotiations for the sale of 22.000 inns of meat to Italy, 
Laa^ Gr >hfls stoppe^ thj,,fh1p-^ 
ment nf idonkey/? to fhe rtallnn arm- les. Tlie economic sanctions also 
will.put.'nn end.to much of Italys 
export trade, as well HS-bcr Imports.
:aodidate for tlie Repubiiiud will
Rep. Fish
talio
throw UIs hat into 
the rlog about tbe middle of December. He will enter 
the primaries in 
(lie western, mid- western and south
ern states.Mr. Fish has not yet formally an
nounced this Inten
tion. but he told an 
Interviewer the oth
er day that If he 
were elected he would have a nonpartisan cabinet that would include 
the best brnlos' In tbe country regardless of political affiliations. He 
even went so far as to give out a long list of the.men and womeo 
from which he would choose his cabinet members. For Instance, hissecretary of -state wllf be either^ 
Senator Borab, Senator Hiram Johnson, Bolobrldge Colby, John W. Diu 
,vls or Newton D. Baker. For sec
retary of commerce he would have!
Glass heads the list -for 
tary of the treasury ; Edward 
Hayes for secretary of war; R. Creager of Texas for postmaster 
general ; Judge  Charles Lockwood of Brooklyn' for attorney  geng^al ; 
Al Smith for :secretary of labor; Frank O. Lowden for secretary of 
agriculture; Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., for secretory of the navy, nnfl 
Former Vice President Charles Cur
tis for secretary of the-interior.
met sudden 
death when un enstbound plane 
of the United -Air l.iiies vrnshed about, fifteen miles west of Chey?ane;:^Wyo., In the early morning hou:-s; Tlie plnne apparently struck the peak of a small hill and bounced, 
nose ttrst, ngalnst tlie top of another"hill. Fire did not break, out, bjit the lmpnct wns fntnl to the nine : passengers, two pilots and
HANGOVER
tbs campus, maybe Theta Tau started the craze. Anyway the students are patronizing' the Ait cinema theater oh Liberty avenue,' where first class highly cultural fims are shown. '
that-will be seen playing opposite Mona Gusto. Scouts sent from Hollywood saw Carl strutting his stuff at the Fraternity Dance and tben finally managed to corner blm long enough to get his John Henry. Get thisyoull like it. Shooting ot the scenes will start in tbe spiingrrof 1973. Thats . just my guess -but its as good as. any.- - -
from the ' hospital yesterday. All the members of tbe plebe team are going to autograph the plaster cast
at the Pitt-W. Va. game Saturday. All during tbe first and second quarter Mike forgot himself and cheered for -Tech. - But when the Carnegle-N. Y. C. score was nounced during the half, Mike iwallowed hia program and could lo no more than burp the rest of the afternoon.
DONT LOOK NOW BUTrumor has reached mine ears that a tain frat club has already Bigned up their gals for this coming rushing n. Oh so early!' Can tbat be the remedy? Maybe a couple MORE gale in the club will do tbe
"SOCKO"fop want of a better the four legged -art student is still being led to school- everyday. <How will the poor pooch ever graduate as long as he (or she) spends all of bis (or her) evenings
THE CWENS turning out in full force and armed to tbe teetb with, tickets for their tea danc this ing Thursday afternoon in Thlstl
boxing team, trying to pull 'Maxie Baer" with his play boy tacmust have lost c
fter the dance.. The line - must have been too long to suit tbis.most royal person;
ADD GILMORE accompjanled byi MfldMin yautrinot, last year campus queei).
JOHN VCURLY LOCKS ANDERSON all dolled .up in soop and fish 
last Wednesday . . He is doing 
rigbt well by that little frosh ar
chitect Prosperity and Joe College are back on the campus judging by the number of epiffy new antobueses some folks are operCONSOLATIONS AND BEST WISHES for a speedy recovery to Mary Hubley for her ailing knee. But if "Mother" McKenzie continues to give his support the limp inay becomepermanent.
XHEM DRAMATS ARE. AT IT AGAIN.- - They found Doc. Merril under tbe table just as class start- No stooge, he was not celeLADIES FROM; HELL. The drunk
the band wearshs dresshs!
TAU SIGMA DELTA ARTS hon- ary holds forth at Culetoes and >w STe. George Lansberg is using Spaghetti as pipe cleaners.
PHOOEY ON THE SOCIALISTS communists, fascists and HOTEL MAHAGERISTS they put us 4 in roomnat N. Y. "After this we shall slep in de park, Yowszah.
SHOTS FROM GOTHAM . (there.game there you know). Lots of familiar faces . . . grads and undergrads . . . A. A. (All-Around Ackley getting into the spirit of the piece during the performance and almost flattering Drummer; Ziff he lets'. one of those overarm' swings go . . . Tbe fighting spir and pluckyness of Capt. TerebuB deserves a cheer.
JACK JENKINS ONE TIME -Carnegie Student, has written a.swingy little slngy called Crazy Over You. His brother Bill is the other half of the team, and it looks though Jack and Bill might go
A BRAIN HARASSED BY A PEN
THAT RUNS DRY, LOSES ITS
Hence Parker Created 102% More ink Capacity and Visible Ink Supply
From Harvard to Southern California'
Wanted by More Students 
Titan All Other Standard  ui _ _
Brands Combined
i pump like orfici
Every time that you write, your Tram of Thought flashes alohg rails more deheato than gossamer. And every jetiy.cnnoyancc-rjvery
5
cu that skips and runs cy in study period, classes or exams, ob- ITructs lUc track und de rmls the train.
By. holding 'this mir- ado writer to tho light, they can see the ink level -see days ahead if it s running low. It is lami* nated-built up ring upon nne of shimmering Pearl and Jetsmart)
selcss later on. Dtwd mcchani iny gooq
ParLer
FROGKAUS
osasiNGERSSHBESaSingers Feature PARKER PRODUCTS 
 Pen and Pencil Repairing .
v SQHICEDRT SHAVERSFAVORS
Greek Notes
Football, crisp mornings, and approach of Halloween  find S Carnegie Tech fraternities well  ganized and siieceesfoLy atari2 oa the new season of week-end BiC enrtainments and cheery Boct^ gatherings; These good S leave memories which are neTH forgotten. For a brief perl studies are set aside-and the Kine of Fun reigns on the campus. 
Saturday, the Pi k. UR3 wUi
lassies, and trot around for old-fashioned hay ride. H&iik Lebne will' Impersonate tbe Kin?
ee? r(dogs) are in order.
The Beta Slgs are planoing a testimonial dinner in honor of a number of obliging Margaret Morrison. girls in return for the design, big and sewing-of tbe houses,ovwindow: -curtains.--   An . loforasi dance will follow.
Housewarming at the Tau Delta Phis new residence, (522? Forbes) this Friday is right in season, y the big Peerless coach that took tbe boys to New York is as good the salesman said it is, ilU gel them back in time to let them tau a hand in shoveling coal into lhe new steam heater.
The Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity Is all set for the winter. Last
when the lights are low and every' thing cozy.
The A. T. O.s are all rested eek-end. They are going i0
feeling pretty good after the oln crowd at the interfraternily u hell keep the party on Its toes.
More new house equipment ie reported. Tbe D. U/s have a ne* furnace and are soon expecting an. other blessed eventa Frlgidalre. The lucky Phi Kaps. fikd one donated by a kind alumnus. The na idy have fixed up  a'bullt-in-Vic- t'rola: The: engineersiug with it and succeeding la getting it to play Rhythm Is Oar Business backwards. Come and try your latest step to lhaL For the members parents, the T. X.s are giving a buffet supper DsCH day from three to five.
The last of the notes that Kappa Delta Rho had
809 LIBERTY AVENUE
Presents 
NOEL COWARDSBITTER SWEET
Zlegfelds .Enthralling Operetta
T
JOUGH large, the Bell System is simple in structure.
Think of it as a tree. /
Branches: 24 associated operating companies, each 
attuned to the area it serves.Trunk; The American Telephone and Telegraph 
Company, which coordinates all system activities.
RoptsCell Telephone Laboratories and Western 
Electric,. whose functions are scientific research and 
manufacture; Long Lines Department of A- T- and T-> 
which through its country-wide network of wires links 
together,the 24 operating companies, handles overseas 
service; Advisory Staff of A. T. and T:, which advises 
the operating companies on all phases of' telephone 
operation and searches constantly for better methods.
Working as one, these 
many Bell System units en
able you to talk to almost 
anyone,-anywhere, any timeBELLTELEPHONE SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN 
SA U C E
By Scotty Charles
N.Y.U. Passes 
For 25-6 Win V vOver Tartans
IT WAS A RATHER DESULTRY TARTAN TEAM that fell before 
aerial onslaught of the Violets of New York University last Satyrjay to tbe morbid anthem' of 26-6. The local lads have been accused of 
onterlDg the fray with a touch ol swollen cranium, being generally fa
vored to take the tUBBle. They started badly and before they knew, they 
ell bad strained Adam's Apples from watching the Knickerbocker passes 
pare tbe way to two touchdowns.
the ONLY TIME THE SKIB09 REALLY STRUTTED was In that 
third period: touehdown-march, during which It, looked like a chance to 
hit the sawdust trail to redemption. However, this rally was nipped 
and the boys slumped back Into their reclining position. The opinion 
has been expressed that they could have won In hand had they been 
fltying the brand of football they showed last week to the Notre Daroi 
squad it half.
MANY EXCUSES HAVE BEEN OFFERED FOR THE SLOPPY 
eibibitionsuch as late train, no rest, and playing away. In spite of 
Ihe handicaps, Carnegie has a team this year of high enough caliber to 
take this competition without perspiring if they are really ready for 
them. The Plaid paes defense was about as airtight as an economics 
proi, the Violets completing seven skywards in succession and ending 
up with a record of eleven out ot. fourteen.
THERE WERE AT LEAST FOUR TOUCHDOWNS that the Tarians could have scored had It not been for several 'Ifs." .Dropped 
passes and slow lnterference*hlndered the Plaid progress on the offense 
>and made the score Just that much more cockeyed. The blocking was 
poor and the moving Inlorference wae too alow, tlelng up the rabbit 
backs, when they got In the dear. N. Y. U.s line was weak but their 
fast backs eaueed the Pittsburghers plenty of trouble, especially when 
the Sklbos were not crashing through fast enough. -
PITT HAS BEEN DEFEATED by the piebes so there is still some
thing to cbeer for. One of the things that baffles ye scribe Is! the fact 
that the Tartan frosh Visually manage to- hold the Panther yearlings 
erery yearending with'either a victory or a tie;- However,-a year or 
two later the Gold-cladB romp gaily and without effort over th local 
prides and joys. I dunno . . . ; 
THE FROSH PLAYED STRAIGHT FOOTBALL and played It well. 
Davies gave them a bunch of old plays which they executed admirably 
and effectively. They used the old pinners, the Michigan flea flicker 
lateral, the short man play on a kick, In fact, everything but th< 
Statue of Liberty, to trounce the Panthers. '
THE COMING CONTEST WITH TEMPLE promises to go down In 
history as Harpstera Headache. The Owls will come to Pittsburgh 
next week as odds-on favorites to. take the1 Tartans, easily. We have 
seen the Cherry and White-in action and they areplenly. good. Pop 
Warner went lo Temple to turn out a college' with a. football name and 
they are giving him the players who can do it.
Smith's Tosses Swamp 
Plaids; Line Faulty 
On Offensive
New York University , lost no 
time on Saturday fa setting down 
the Tartans from Carnegie, 25-6, to 
even the score for the Sklbo vic
tory last year. Early in the first 
quarter, after Coleman KopBcak 
had punted out on his own 34-yard 
line, the Violet backs turned on 
the beat and rammed over a touch
down. ' it took Quarterback Machlowltz just five plays to cross the 
line, five plunges in which he 
lagged^ the ball the entire distance 
himself. Shortly after, when 
Matelan, who replaced Kopscak 
when the latter was Injured, kicked 
to the Violet 83, the New York team began Its second march. Smith, whose passing kept the Plaid worried all afternoon, did most ot the work In the second scoring threat. He carried ball to Carnegie's 15 In two long jaunts through the lii faded back to whip Klein, who waited in the end s id touched the leather to ground to make the score 12-0. Soon after the second quartor under way, the New Yorkers
Temple Favored'to-Extend Winning 
Column Against Carnegie Saturday
Pop Warner Has Unbeaten 
Team to Brmg, Against 
Tartan Warriors
Lae Owls have already sewed the game. .The question Is, "Can tne Sklbos stop the Cherry and White?'
It was under these same circumstances that Pop Warner brought 'iiis boys to Pittsburgh two years ago. They were thon slated to win with ease. However, the tables were turned  quickly and Terebus ran wild to help the Pittsburghers chalkup a 25-0 victory. Last year,
through to last winter when they 
defeated In ;the post season' 
Sugar Bowl- game by a strong 
Tulane eleven. This year they 
have gone through four games tin* 
beaten and untied. This is one rec
ord that they do not intend to have 
broken by the Tartans as the Phil
adelphians are murmuring Bose 
Bowl with-the accent on Temple.
Pop Warner is coming to town with victory in mind. Hieboys 'iig and fast and well-coaohed. There -is sure to be an abundance of fancy ball-handling In the Owl
around' a strong fullbackDave S'muckler is the man at the time. His" ability is much publicized, Saturday. will be the opportunity
Since that time. Temple has been beaten only ouce. Their, winning streak started in 1933 and went
Carnegie Foes 
Win Contests
This promises to be,one ot the hardest fought games on tho Sklbo schedule with as much color as any gridiron spectacle. '.
Tartan Frsh 
Win Over Pitt
Lee Kicks Field Goal 
Winning Game, 3-0
Carnegie's yearlings turned In a 
game . Saturday that brought 
mtfa. to-the hearts ot: the Tartan 
supporters, when they downed the 
Pitt- plebes by a score of 3-0, Par* 
ticularly gratifying tofche Tartans 
was the apparent wealth of mate
rial and the good.showing of the 
frosh backs. Loe, who played the 
entire game at full for the Plaid, 
was the one responsible efor' the 
cond 
. ebesbad advanced to Pitts 19, Lee booted the ball between the uprights for the only t This score c had completedforward lateral
Carnegies goal pfter recovering a fumble by the Plaid quarterback. When Pllt had come to the II they stopped, and gave up the ball
Womens Athletics '
By Margie Green
A .'group ot ten - eager, young 
equestrians, or shall we call them 
"saddle aspirants,' Initiated' our 
own Rolling Rock Club ot Carnegie. 
From all appearances, this sport Is 
going to take our alma mater by 
storm, that Is, - if the present en 
thuslasm proves to be as contagi
ous as it threatens. Think of th 
swanRey aunosphere our. coeds will provide, by dashing about the campus on horseback especially wltli oue Louise Pace in the le&d.Not mentioning any names, I hoar-tell of a certain Maggie Murph sophomore who started ofl last Saturday at a beatlful trot on a somewhat IrlBky "Brownie.Bub Fuller reports tbnt the Schenley P^rk trails make ldoal ridlug territory, especially with the Autumn coloring In full awing. The riding master from Geers proved to bo most obliging, giving lessons free ot charge to the beginners, and hinting that he might poBBlbly make an attractive prloe for a book of tickets if the. Carnegie iuterest continued. In fact, he even' guarjumplng steeple chases in no time at all
Eleanor Coon; dancing manogor, 
conducted a business meeting yea 
terday, wherein she and her follow 
era settled the time and the place for-her practices. She >-nrgDS. .all juniors and aeniorsto do their part In boosting Interest in this new club,' which will offer a choice of interpretive and tap dancing. Bui- letlnboard notices will provldo fur* ther Information.
The rifle club has promise of-its usual large turnout again this e
in W. A. A., the location of the range is in the basement ofMur-, garet Morrlsou. Now. will all who are Interested please wend , their way down the 'bowl steps, bear left, and follow the . sign Rilto Range anytime aftcir 2rS0 thia Thursday afternoon. , New members are needed to parry .'on our splendid championship record up to dnto; old members, all six of them, are requested to give their services In Instructing "sighting
Booters Take 
Shadyside, 3-2
tialli Scores "All7 TKree 
Despite Muddy Field
r .The Carnegie Tech soccer team 
started Its second aeagqns sched
ule last Friday in the rain on a 
sloppy, muddy home fleld by defeat
ing Shadyside Academy 3-2.
The Skibos started out in the 
1 first quarter by scoring almost im
mediately after the kick-off when 
Tony 'Lalli, ccnter forward, drove 
the ball through the goal. Shortly 
afterwards, Lalll.-agaln scored.
Shadyside scored their two goals 
in the second quarter, one by D. 
Cow, left inside, when Boots Kis
sel, Tech goalguard, slipped and 
tell, tlie other by Meyer, inside 
right, on a hard drive.
Play slopped all over the field un
til near the end of the last quarter 
when Lain scored for the third time 
on a well-placed drive.
The next game is Friday -at. 
Shadyaidi, and- then Saturday a!t 
Tech with Geneva.at 10:00 
Then follow four; more games/wlth 
Slippery Rock, Grove. City, and per
haps Duqueene.
Lineup:
Shadyside.
.R.F.;
.Clark............
Haudenshield .C.H.9. Gow .........L.H....JUreller.........O.R...Meyer ..........I. R...Sykora .......... C ;.D. Gow ..........LI,...^ells ...........O. L....
RefereeTy Evans GoalsLal- 1' 3, Meyer, D. Gow. Subs.Kis- WH. R. Reid. Quarters15
..Murray
, Swinney c...:T Pearl ... L. Reid Pendleton
..... tnloyd 
...... LalU
FH^^YP BHPP 
K;KJ; FB95
5823 FORBES STREET
qug,,0D f,vF gc6l 
c0 f,v y,vtMbEg,,0D
V>:;'
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
^Ptl/siurgh, Pa.
Harrier Candidates 
Asked to Report
vious experience is qulred' ot candidates. Varsity harriers scoring the necessary number of points are awarded, small varsity letters
wish to try out for track in the spring are also urged to report now for preliminary training.
The. plebe harriers meet
touchdown. At the halt the
.-moved down the 'field' for .their pnly- score of the game. Sieve Terebus repeated his fine perform;
touchdown,;and Matelan shoved it the eeven-yard marker. Th kick for the extra point was wide. Later In the game the Plaid res in scotlng-position, due to izeable penalties and a long pass, but Douglas juggled a pass Violet three-yard line and the threat Mh g gtheir, last
the drive for CarnegieB. score. Car- legie had a. parade of players going _nto' the game all afternoon, so that there wasnt muclj chance, for
a the game. Nearly all of. the play- T0 who mado the trip to New York taw action In the gi ' The train on which th Carnegie team went to Gotham was three
An interesting occurence the start of the game oh the' kick- oil N. Y. U. booted to the Cairnegie goal line. The player who received 
for the Plaisun. which i___ _ .roof oE Yanke Stadium, and hesitated momentarily before picking it run back. Carnegie wis forced to kick soon after that and N. Y. U. was given its first scoring opportunity.
the 'high schools of
iod opportunity
THE
Student Valet Sbop
LAUNDRY 
DRV CLEANING 
105 Welch Hall 
Schenley 9468w. c, DoDrmit
"SAVE AFTER SEVER
- Low Nighr Rate5, appl.y-qfterf.
7 P. JW on all 5 tation - to - 
Station1 Calls on whiih the 
day rate is 40c, or more. The 
Night Rates offer savings 
of 40" "" m n n v calls
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

Night School 
Section of Tartan........
General News-Editorial Com
mentFraternal OrganizationsSPtie Carnegie plaid
- Election of Officers. 
EditorialRetiring N.S.C.
. Costing Elections
imDotJbs: the' course of .-the next 
twij weeks, -the'-annual -election-of 
fflcert for toie current school year 
be'heltl in the three }Jight .col
leges. The successful- candidates 
wjll automatically become i 
bets of the Night student council 
sod as such, will represent the in 
tereBts of the students in the col
lege from 'which they.were elected.
In the past few year?, very little Jntereet has been shown In the subject otelections. ' It ie impossible to hold a truly representative elec- - tion in any college unless a majority of the electors are - present at .tbe*-election. The Night student council has often' been criticized ' for -its actions but . the students have failed to remember tbat it was their votes which elected the various Council members. That is why the elections are important . And should be attended by the entire student body.
It is the duty of every Nlgbt student who is registered In a regular course in anv of the three, colleges- to attend the elections and cast his vote. Moreover, it is the duty of every: Night student to elect capa-  ble men and women who have the necessary qualifications, regardless of - race, creed, or political affiliation. - Petty differences should be ^discarded and a candidate should be~ elected on his record only.; If the students bear this thought In mind at the coming elections they mav rest- assured tbat they will . have elected candidates wfoo will best-serve their interests and that the. incoming. Night Student Council -Will be a strong and efficient organization. Only through the cooperation of every Night student can the high standard of the Night Student Council be maintained.
Retiring Council
: The retiring Nigbt Student Coun
cil. closed the years business at Us 
-final meeting which was held Oc
tober 6. As we scan the record 
--of this organization during the past
. -year,  -
- addition to their record on Council; the members have attained favorable scholastic, standing. The  Tarious duties entailed ,Jn being a . member of the Night Student Coun- oll requlre much effort on the part
nembers have served for the first 'tliQe- on- council during the' past . yea*; thev are to be congratulated  on the .spirit with which, they i earned their duties'.
- With the advent of . its inasgu;- tion,-.tbere was a display of enthu: large'' measure to' the assistance / rendered ' bv the Administration -andv the' student body. at. large. During the past year, ibe council i confronted by many problems,
' the progress of council, . were solved to the satisfaction of all
 .The primary duty of the.Student
Students
Lament
.Council i supervise the expenwm
diture of all moneys received by tbe^ Council and to render an ac- : count- thereof.. The.- favorable fl- nanclal  balance of the past year again attests the efficiency witb: /which the group functioned. Here- to-fbre. the burden " of paying for scholarship awards has been handed over to the incoming Council -.bntvthe retiring Council has removed -that , condition by paying the debt Itself. In the matter of legislation, the outstanding cbntrlbu-. tion-of the Council was the enactment of the rules: on eligibility in a revised form.
/I^tt^ sbort,- the retiring Night Student;. council, at Carnegie has endeavored to uphold the right stand-, nrds-and traditions maintained by lts '&fedecessors and has firmly established itself among the better sge groups.
Having decided to farther-my 
knowledge (not that it tv 
needed) by' entering . the Night 
school at Carnegie, I arrived on 
the campus bright and early, on 
Monday, the first night of registra
tion. As the time of my arrival 
was 7:15 p. m.,' I had the odd im
pression that I was early and since 
there would be few prospective stu
dents on th campus I' thought I could finish the act of registering
i' parkn * ~ ------ r ---- ------ BP' 'which did look inviting', wi adorned with the nicest fireplugs. Eventually, after a few bumps, I made a happy landing near Machinery hall, as It Is called. After parking the chariot, I' made my way. to the nearest building, and found myself walking up a long rridor. As It widened, I noticed long line of students standing
line tor a half an hour, first foot then on the other like a crime. I finally muBtered enough courage In the-College of
front of the deans office.So I started out again, .this time t the right track which led me to the top floor of .the Arts building.
contained a Hat of the various subjects offered. He then directed me to the end of tbe line of prospective: students which by that time had increased in number. I began to think of the adage, "Everything
the length of- time some of the interviewers took, I thought they must begin with ones llte from the cradle up. - l found myself at
my mind as to the.'studies I intend* ed to pursue, because- that n
flrBt thing. the interviewer as^efl me. He then signed my card (I waited an hour and a'iialt to have him put.his signature on.a-card for me) and directed pie to-.the  first floo^. ot the building. . .
S thought I hadsecna line before buy the sight which greeted
couple of class cards. I thought
About tbe only question which
though I hadnt thought, of going In for any sport tbat evening.
-the gymnasium, I managed to read the signs and beaded for tbe
least a relief) and asked to see my cards, etc. I handed her everything, so she directed me to tbe t stopping place where they in*
couldn't have done that In the first place.) Continuing on my way (my feet were beginning to hurt now) I stopped in front of a typist. She took the bundle which I bad In my hand and showed me how to write my name on a typewriter. She added to the material that I already carrying. I was just about to depart when someone interrupted me> to ask me how I in*
In my card and handed'me a book
Officers Will 
Be Elected In 
Two Colleges 
During We e k
Preparations have been complete 
ed for tbe coming elections which 
will be held by the Arts and En
gineering colleges tbe latter part 
of this week.' At this time the. two 
colleges will elect the. officers who 
will represent them  on .Council 
during the present school year. .
- The Arts election will take place 
In room 308 of the Arts building 
on Friday evening, October 18th, at 9 o'clock. Engineering students will meet at 8:30 p. m. on Satur- day,,October 19th, In tbe Union.
' Admission to both elections will be by registration card. For' identification of college, the serial
used to designate Engi- 5, and numbers In the 7000 se* designate Arts. For th pui
members of the College of Engineering enrolled in degree courses, while those enrolled in Vocational courses in the College of Englneer- * ig are listed ae Industries.
; Particular, attention is called to he; new. eligibility requirements which: are set forth on pages 34 and 35 of the Night Student Handbook. As these rules apply to
making any-. nominations.
In connection with-their election, the Engineers will hold their anTHE FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Sixth Avenue Near Wood Street 
CLARENCE EDWARD) MACARTNEY, Minister 
SERVICES ON OCTOBER 20, 1935
1C:45 A. M.,..z................... .........Sermon by Dr. Cacartney.
12:16 P. M........................................... ......Sunday School
8:00 P. M................................. ..../Come Before Winter1'
(Annual Sermon on Opportunity)Dr. Macartney.
We welcome Carnegie Tech students at our 
Services
Official Ballots ; 
Will Be Issued
In keeping with the policy Inaugurated by Council last year, official ballots will be distributed for use at the coming - electione.- vNo other 
ballots will be honored. In addition, the' students' must present their - registration cards in order to gain admittance to the election as well' as to secure their official bal- lots. -The purpose of these regulations' is to insure a fair election' and the regulations must be adhered to.
New Mailing List Is Utilised in This Issue
Beginning with this issue of the 
Plaid, the new mailing list will be 
utilized. Every registered student 
who has paid the Activities fee Is 
enlitle'd to a copy of the paper.
If anyone- knows of a student who has failed to receive this 1s- of the Plaid, he Bbould request that student to send bis name, address; and class attended to the Editor of .the Carnegie Plaid.
ms Said
THAT. the . .Engineers will spar(f at their Sfrnoker Saturday hlghC
THAT I will give a handsome reward to the student offering the best (or any) solution to the parking problem. .
 THAT -the eleglblllty rules have placed a premium on the available mien.THAT the Registrars office
THAT'a certain night group , showed their splrlte at the Notre Dame-game.THAT Nu Sigma Alpha and Phi Nu will hold a Hallowe'en
training who can typewrite and take shorthand.THAT the Editor will gladly publish letters or messages from Night Grads or old-timers.. THAT the Night Industries wont tafkabout their Smoker.THAT the work (or the worst?) Is yet to come.
^ Kinrm a EssEfl co.
TYPEWRITERS SH.95 TO $75.00
'Liberal Terms . ... Free Trial
A BENT ATYEE WRITERFirst Three MonfiieRental 'Applles to Purchase Price. . -
Fort Pitt Typewriter Go.
NIGBF .LIGHTS
Jacfc:-j&yCoKr.,lw&] anlong tbat 
perturbed group, who found them-, 
selves taking Eng.-l. after having 
been given credit for Eng.-2 . . . 
Tbe insidious Mr. Page, who' was 
our A-l heckler last - year, has lit
erary ambitions himself ' . .joe 
Trachts  Sherlock Holmes pipe ie 
tbe envy ot the architects,, and the 
despair of Its strongest^) competi
tor, owned by Tommy Newell.
It looked -like Murderers Row 
at. the Tech-Notre Dame game last 
week, with a whole flock of Night 
Techltes occupying one row and giving their all for tbe Alma Mater ... Evelyn Hill, tall, blond, newcomer, is looking for a boy-friend pro-tem . . . Line forms to the right, boys . . \ If anyone asks, Sam NikEazy is around again this year . . . While Jimmy Geyser is back after an absence of four
Volunteers Asked 
To SubmfNameg
.. - With the-opening of. the- Night 
school, a new social season will h0 
ushered in. At Carnegie the suecess o( he various Night 6cho<>) 
social. functions dpends not only 
on the cooperation of the Night 
Student Coiincil.'but'also the sup
port of the entire student body.
The Night. Student Council ea. courages -the students who partie. Ipate in this work - by granting them points toward an Insigne award, which is presented in re&. ognition of .a students activities record at tbe close t the school year: Any student who wishes to
end address to the Night Student Council, Box 136, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenlev Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
?
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY 
?
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
...but, after all is said and 
done, its the cigarette it
self that counts
...the question is, 
does it suit you?
^3S
ow, when it comes to a cigarette that 
will suit you... you want to think whether 
its mild, you want to think about the taste
That Chesterfields are milder arid taste better is no 
accident..
The farmer who grows the tobacco, the ware
houseman who sells it at auction to the highest 
' bidder, every man, who knows about leaf tobacco 
will tell you that it takes mild, ripe tobaccos to < 
make a good cigarette.
In making Chesterfields we use mild ripe home
grown and Turkish tobaccos.. for mildness 
for better taste
tt
