Men must be at liberty to guj in print whatever they 
have in nnnd to say, pro
vided it wrooga.no one.
.-CHARLES A. DANA ,
Today Editorial - 
It Still Needs Pushing 
Pretty Low Ethics 
The Track .Team Has 
Done Woll
VOL- 29, NO. 31CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY; MAY 28, 1935
(Alumni Hold) 
Annual Dance 
For Seniors
(Eddie Weitz* Orchestra 
To Play From 9 to 1 
In Thistle Hall
J. M. LEADS (RACE 
|lN ANNUAL DRIVE
Special Kates to Graduating 
Class Will Continue Until 
Commencement
Members of the senior. cJosswill 
be guests of the Alumni Federation 
Friday evening, at the annual Sealior-AIumni dance, to, be' held in 
jnislle Hall from nice to one. Ed
die Weltz and fais orchestra will 
provide the music.
New Courses Offered Iii Summer Session; First. Gla ss June 10
935 Thistle 
To Introduce 
New Queen
Yearbook Will Be Ready 
For Distribution 
Next Week
Standing of the departments. in the Membership Drive: Margaret Morrison Carnegie College 30% of Senior Class1. Home Economics2. Costume Economics3. secretarial
of Snior :ClasB Mechanical Engineering 
Mnth*TntIc6 Physics. .MiningChemical Engineering Industrial Education Electrical Engineering . Commercial Engineering 
Celled* f Fine Arts 3% of Senior Class Painting and Design 
Menmu s t b
Tickets for the dance,!'Tillich id 
Informal, may be obtained at.tl 
Alumni Office. Boom. 206, Gyi 
naslum, any time this week. Each 
senior Is entitled o bring a guest, 
not, necessarily a Carnegie student.
No solicitation of Alumni Federa
tion dues will he made at the dance, 
At present, Margaret;-MorrlBon 
College leads in the^omnf.ine beTOfclpVdriYC.-Th'c-'Sampalgir- being carried on- byMrieiriberS : the senior class .whoJaire soliciting
the association icemnt, June 10. The $1.50 rale entitles .the seniors lo full membership lit "the Alili
3 rate will be the usual $3.00,
The 1935 edition of the--Thistle 
will: be ready for distribution dur
ing the early part of tiext week, ac
cording to James M.'Latta, editor. 
Copies may be. secured-at the Chris
tian Association, office on the -prThie years book marks the/intro
duction of several new .'features, 
of which .is the Thiatle'qtieen. 
'As the year-book fes publlsJLec^b^ 
members of the Junior class! " 
Latla said, the staff felt that it 
would, be appropriate for the queen 
to be chosen from among the Junior 
girls." Department heads in Mar
garet Morrison College, and the 
College of Pine Arts each 
ated three girls from the: junior 
claBB to compete In the selection 
of the queen. From this group 
Thistle staff members 
chose four girls to be photographed., 
These photographs were then sent 
iF. Sands Brunner, lllUBtrator for Curtis Publishing -Company, who ade the. final selections.The new Thistle wil. be hound.in genuine Tartan plaid and red imita^
Arts Soph 
Is Honored
Mary Hughes to Study 
At London University
News of the award of;a'Pram 
League of America scholarship 
recently received  by  Mary Ann 
Hughes 37, Department of Drani 
This scholarship is for full (tuition 
lor the entire summer session 
tho Central School of Speech  
SrMna, affiliuleivvrith^the: .Oniversity of London.  Primarily1 intend' 
for students Interested- in -.lit
erary and drama study, :theGchoiwahlpa are also given tor ft? e ptfr  
Pwe of promotinginternational 
MderaLanding.;. " - ^i"- "'. .-u:';
Miss Hughes, who is a resident jt Aiiquippa, Pa., -wiil-sail from New-York on Jiuly 6 and will re J>m*bout September 25. During her stay In England she. is- planning to visit' Oxford, Stratford-on- MOB. and Malvern. .Sh^.is .also, planning a abort visit at the Uni* yerslty of Wales, where she was attendance during 19s2.alir iiughea: who- cntere in 1533. i9 a member vi amnia Gamma Gamma' -sorority, he Is also a member- of Cwena, wphomore glrla honorary.
Gradinate Student 
To Give Recital
The Department- at -Musl< 
t**ent Gertrude Breakstone, 
on Sunday. eyeiiitig, June 
. n the Theater-: ot. the Cole6e Of Fine Arts:-' T1\1n will'- be 
r*e of three graduate recitals Moico studentswj1 program is :as follows; rndel - . . Recltativo ed arla ^finiondi , *'VieniriO'iE1gUo! .(<. II, Dalcroae.. ... I^s dem- 'Vidalr.Qele coeur; Chaueeon .* a lepouse::'and Poldowskl  Cythere: IntermlsBlon.- ltl, SchlutDgs .. -,,' Wle wander-Schumann .'; .* DerHidalgo;Wlr- wandelten: 'and ;LU*5 - . . Wiesontenwir-ge- t cie halten. TV. Granville Ban- TSL ' *  The Celestial Weaver:, iio Alden Carpenter ; . The that flits  on; babys  eyes: u.5jr Quitter -.Spring, is.attil nT; Armstrong Gibbs ;Eyes; and:Seneca; Pierce;.
Allegheny Mu6ic Head 
To Be Guest Instructor 
For Third Year
REGISTRATION DATES 
HAVE BEEN SET
Mueic- Courses Now Open 
To .School for First Time 
This; Year
The 1935 Summer session ot 
Carnegie will open Monday, June 
10, when the preliminary two 
weeks. course .in' Wood-working 
and-Practice tachlne in tho Col
lege of Engineering will begin. The 
undergraduate,.courses in the Col
lege ot Engineering'irill begin 
June 1 and. v'xtend for .-eight 
kveeks..ending ughst 8.The courses in-; Architecture Ir the Collge of Fine Arte will alsc begin on June IB but will last only Until-July - 2$. The remainder ot .the summer courses Including those in Art, Music, Drama, and Ii dustrlal. education will begin o June 24 and continue to August 2.In .the summer.. session,  several graduate subjects..are to-bq'offer- ed. The Department of Music will continue with its program leading to the masters degree in public school music. The Psychology of Music, a course which is available in only-two or.three schools In the
M aj 0 r- G e m Mar kam ; Will Be Guest Speaker 
At Commencement;
D. Sc. Degree 
Is Awarded 
To Six Men
Scotch.Another of the featurs scratchboard drawings .by Robert S'. Robison, art editor.-;,The .Thistle -iiiijBtc&tfid.3pvfr these drawfnggj whrdh "'ar prepared on a. chalk surfaced cardboard - painted; .with '.India ink. Scratch outlines are-made with a sharp tool, somewhat like the process. followed in making a wod | cutFollowing the practice of dedicating the book to some prominent faculty /^-member, Prof.  Robert ~ Lelghou .was chosen this year. Prof. Lelghou Is Professor of Chemistry at Carnegie, and. .Director, of the summer.-'school .session.Other sections will Include writeups and pictures of seniors, plc;
country. has-bft<addpd to tLi curriculum id the College of Fine Arts. Professor Morten J. Luvaas, head of the Department, f
__ the third consecutive summer.This summer instead of admitting only-stulents from the Department] of Music, students from any department on the approval of Professor .Luvaas, j. It singingbe'stimulated. - ........? After a two years-lapse- the Dal;;CTOT^EhnfthtiHfe^Cla0B6s^Hre--ta'be; continued.'"Dramp school courses,
Student ? A ctinities Building 
DesignedhyHenry A. Jandl 
Would Be 'SitMated on 6Cut
Thesis of Architectural Student Does Away With 
Brown House Remodeling'.!- Ian; Substitutes \J 
Structure Fina need by Building Fund /
on the phrl
Trusteeship 
Conferred On 
John Lhoon
By John K. Shear J
"A Student Activities Building 
tor Carnegie/ was the subjeptj 
which Henryv A. Jandl, a graduate^ 
student In the Department of Arch-, 
liecture, ch'oBe for hls'thslB. ; o Mr.--Jandl!fl -deB.IgouitaioWB^or.^ large auditorium for ..-etudent as. sembiles,;re'italB, and plys by the.I Department'' ' ~ *
^g' -would .be" located
applicable in fulfilling the require-1 ' mente of the M.. A. degree  Music Education.The Registration dates for the summer session .are as follows: June 10. 1:30-2:30, registration, for preliminary courses in Woodworking and Practice Teaching; June 17 9-00-12:00 and l:00-4:00 registratlon for undergraduate, courses In College of Engineering and courses In the Department of Arch- Itecture; June 21, 9:00-12:00 and
auditorium, such as a green rooxni a large stage, and
record of alt actlvi- tles',and write-ups of the achieve-, ments of;faculty members during the. past year. SlBcc advance sales went rather well, according to Mr. Laita, there will bo only a limited number of .Thistles left for late sales. These .may be. secured also at the Chris- tlan- Asspdfttion office for $3.50. ..'
Faculty Members - 
To Have Outing
Annual Picnic, to Be Held 
At Parish Hill, June ^^
1:00-4:00, and June 22, 9:00-12:00, registration for courses In Art, Mu- plc., Drama and Industrial Educa
tion^-'./ ;
Dormitory Council 
Elects Officers
Carnegie faculty membersand
picnic at. Pariah Hill in North Park 
the afternoon and evening of 
Saturday, June 8.
The Faculty Welfare Committee of which Mr. Kent Shaffer, Instrucpic- -for
. During the course of the afternoon and evening- mushball.--.and baseball games will be played, while neaTby tennis  courts and a dimming pool will furnish additional amusement.In case of rain a pavilion equipped with tables may be used foi 
shelter,. Later'ening there the shelter
Coming Events
 WaJiew i ipfey -jwillt1
 i8oOrgan Melodies, by Clj-de (English  Station WWSW..r- > from Little Theater. 
Wednesday8! aO^Isectu 
v Ray. .Du.._...George^ E. Uhlenbech^-Camegie Union.
Thursday ... . .; i : ao^-Carnegle : Symphony gujA lm chestra: under'-direction of . I  Vic" O'Brlen^Statlon  ifrom Exhibition ,Roqm; 
Friday-r- ,."nrOO to 10:00  Senior Alumni > ; "Da'nce-Thistle HallEddie *  Weltzs orchestra. . .
SnndayJ; Roland Hill Is Presid.ent; 
Ralph Herbert* Secretary 
j Hpland, Hlli.;36, Ralph. E. (Her
bert; !3&i.and,I)^y;-C.Kenn 36, 
were- elcted pveBtdent.' se'creiary 
and 'biidgt dirttoT respectively, 
of ttfrmitory ^o'|ricll for the com
ing At the ,meeting. 9* the, 
irgaiizaUon. Ab-ifthe same timfe 
the > Connell ' Admitted to membershlp the three Tecen.tly .lected Jun
ior' representative,1 .Robert Hor
vath, Boss Hall; Glenn. Danghton, 
Scobell Hall; and Arthur:-.;Hughes, 
McGill Hall. Welch;; Englebrecht, 
and Miller Halls did'not choose Junmembers this year: sincethey 
not have enough resident < stu
dent to warrant two representaveB on council....
Last Wednesday the - Council 
sponsored the Brat men dormitory 
stag party at ..The PiHes. Following an interdovmltory mushball game the students dined and were entertained ;bv three professionaldancers.and the: McGill all duet
composed of .Frank Dellamano. ., and Steve Terebus 36. Prof. John M;- Daniels,-. Department  of , Civil^gi3eerlQg>.ao<l..iMr^JVi.:-5...-.SLhon;
vizner Department of,- Electrical Engineering: rWere th. ;faculty;- ad- Visera for the occasWtUr.
Women's A A Board 
Introduces Neu> Sport
dressing rooms:Included also is: large= mmorial hall .dedicated to the founder and be used. for re- iptioma and other social func-i, with adjoin- Henry A. Jandl Ing loungeB for  \and'women. and an office for the director; a room for- quiet reading of magazines and . pewspa- a'modern - cafeteria - to- replace the Commons as well as rate dining rooms to' take::care..of banquets;; a large -number::, of rooms for student-actlvltles^.snch __ publications,- student;; government; honor,ary fraternities,, soror^ilatlon and" parking space. 
vislr. : Janl cmp'leted hle. rendu, vsrepal^dhs^^b^faa- it-*e9^been| o&exhlbitlon,- along with- w6rk b otber gradntes .of. th deprtment, duing the last week, in present- ing^hls solution, he shows, (see Cut): a plan. direct lvation, -sec-- tloi^' .prospectives,*  and a gnral plo&plan. The flrst floor woold be md[e up. taf the . auditorium, :the meiorl.ai hall, the -lonnges, and the large caftria. The various r-----
New. Member of Board 
yoo Is Carnegie Graduate .
In Engineering
John -F.! Laboon, Carnegie grad
uate and president of the Carneglo 
Athletic: GoimoU-was:i^P^ntly appointed--to ^--tb'e./BoarQ;.pfTrusteed 
of the Carnegie.iBBt^
____t wouJd'.beva tar- better, solution than the Brown house, remodeled,'could ever'be; , and that . It would , completely do away with any possible'need of e- clock and bell tower as a separate unit. - ;  The design-also/houses very .capthe r Exhibition' - room' ' for ' such broadcasts as. the-.Tartan Quarter Hour fend the recitals, of the Department of Music.
dock toVer connecteQ--wiihv.1ie building proper. ' - : the annual-architects' dinner lastThe intentan le^ that, the build-1 week;
People You Ought to Know...
By Guy HatfeH
.-G^negl^Jbistltuteioe/^ohnolo^y^' 
Mr. Labo'on'.was graduated from 
the Department of Civil- Engineer.
1912. He Is a member of the 
engineering iflrm of Chester, Laboon, Campbell and Bankson.' He' 
is also a member of the Amer 
Society of Civil Engineers; and the 
Engineers Society of Western 
Pennsylvania.Last April Mr. Laboon was given _ responsible position in the Fed- eml-Stato relief organization Western' 'Pennsylvania by being appointed- works' director' of the Allegheny  County Emergency Relief
Company D Wins 
R. O. T. C. Award
Prize Company to - Receive 
Engraved Cup, Ribbons
Company D won .the company
Frank M. Keck,, Chief Engineer
At the head of the .machines whieh take care of Carnegie Techs heating, ventilating,: and .electneal supply stands Prank Miller.Keck, whose; duty is to see that-the buildings of1 fair institution: are-kept properly heated, ventilated, and electrocuted. We probably never stop to realize the constant work needed to maintain, proper living conditions withm them.If we  were all to have the prlvi-^------------------:--------------------lege of talking to Mr. Keck; we . flight of iron steps to where the might better appreciate it. / various pipes start on tlielr wavMr. Keck graduated from Car-/around-, the circuit of the many 
uegie in 1912. He- first became- as- / sociated with the school .in. the
Baccalaureate Sermon 
By Dr. T. W. Graham 
In Music Hall .
Honor Given to Largest 
Number in History 
Of tbe School
Au>a<x6mpitBlim^ntj-never before 
achieved will:, b ronlized - at 'Com; 
fflencQmeiitexerclsefc June 10, when 
six.Carnegie fellowsi reoelve.the.de' 
greei otDoctorof Science. This le 
the highest dogreo awarded at Car
negie
In the' history - ot the school' has there-been a, Com- nenoemetit-nt which moro thnn ;hrde-such-degrees have been coi $rred. f\;ln' H.22 only: one doctor degree'wiiB r a>varded, os was th ^ 1923.' Nine years' olapsed
before-any
STUDENT MARSHALS 
NAMED BY COUNCIL
doctors degrees 
were awarded.' in '1932 - two such degrees were : given. Since then there has been but one doctor's, degrees awarded ea'ch-year.- - 
Only two honorary degrees have been conferred by, thej-.Carnegie In-.
conferred on Edwin H. Anderson, Director of New York Public .Libra
ry In 19^5.
1 The-degree of. Doctor, of Sclenco will be conferred on: Boris N. Dan- iloff, .Research Fellow to. the Wetal-' ' Advisory Board; Leo Kase-1
'ellbw in the Coal Research | Laboratory;; Rush A. Lincoln, Teaching Fellow in-tho Department of Met^Uutgy; pavltl! L. , McBride, ReBearcfi:'Fellow on the: M6tallur- gicAl Adyleory ^Boar<l:, John J..:S.: SeppStlaii, student; in jthe  Coal:.Re .searck'-liftboratory; and William-J:
-[ D^partmenUot! Sclence. v . ..
Jr. Engineer 
Wins Award
Memorial Scholarship 
Goes to j. Meenan .
presented annually ito' a member of the junior claBS. by tho-alumni of the Collego of Engineering. Tho scholarship was founded by the alumni in memory : of . George H. Smith, president, of the first class of-Carnegie. - -Mr. Meenan, a student In tne Department of Civil Engineering, has been active on hoth-the crasa- country-'-and-' track- teams:.- - His home ls ln Pittsburgh,The applicants were Interviewed by-a group of alnmnl. Thomhs N. Griggs 24. is chairman of the 
QraduationProgramlnoiudet 
Conferring of Honor, 
Degrees, DiplomaB
At the .Commencement exorclBCft/. 
whlch will be hold \on-,;r--Mnday-' 
morning,' Juno 10 at ,10:30. in Syrlft 
Mosque, Mnjor-aene'roi-flu^fi^i^ 
Markham, chief arliiy engIneer, Syill 
bd thO gueBt speaker . ,Dt; Thom\ 
Wesley Gralim.-Dean' of tho grd- unto School or Theology 4t Ob^iln College; will -deliver, they Baconlnu- : reate sermon at . the ' BorvlcoB-.in- Curnoglo Music Hall/ bn Sunday-'  evening. June fi at 8: 00. ;Commencement.Program - . ProcesslonnlCoronation March;............. .'KretachmeTStudont Symphony - Orchestra, De- ~ 'parlment of Muslo, J.- Vick OBrien, Conduotor.Chorale ..................... AlbertThe. Orohestra : -,Invocatlonj.i.......Address k .........Wivjor^Oenernl . Edward ;. M. -. Mnrkham. Chief of Ungineore, United StnteB Army,Prelude  -   '          Jarneiolt 'The Orchestra Conferring, of Degrees; DIplbmnB, . . ..Cerllflcales'find Commissions, p - : Announcement of Honors, ,Amorlcu.Recessiohal-^-Mftrche filarbbb bwbh Tchdtkovsky v, Baccalaureate- Scrvlae :Organ Prelude. . ..PreludQr-D'.lMa'}or-.,' Charles A. IH.'Parson.' M. A.-1922, -  Organist 'V- A Capelin- Choir from Department ; of Music,. Huldah J. Kenloy, ... v;.'.V J>lrectori;; ;; ','i Invocation.Sermon -,.. i .. . .  . . . v
.Vi hliiil', :b. Dr Deo-a.of Qraduuto Bchabl of. Theology at Oberlln College.   Benediction . :Organ PoBtludeCorlllon Sort!.
Demtris. of Pittsburgh; and Catherine , Adfelej. Mounger : of . WinoriRV 'ii Massachusetts.  ; - . 'All graduates.muBt attend com-:; mencement or present a satisfactory excuso to- the- Director ot College In advance. Seniors, must ^e,, present at '10:00 o'clock,- Monday.:. Ing In the basement ot-^Syrta
buildings. Including tbe i
clerk for Pres-- ident Ham- merscblag; ,rln 1307 he enrolled in-the Department -of
~ A new activity: Modern Dancing,
will be introcluced. by the Women s 
Athletic- Association ; -JBpatd. next Vear ' 'Eleanor.. Coon, a junior -in the-Department of. Painting and Decorating.- ; has -been, app.ointed manager of the Bporl for .the com .
^Th  installations .of- this athletic activity: the' tenth: on the.-W. -.A. A listi has been broughtribout by the increasing :popularity...of creative dancing- at- Carnegie as evi- denced bv ^tbecorganizatlon, of the. Rhythmic Ensemble; by. the support given. the; Ballet,, and, by..-the Inauguration of modern .dancing as an' electlve-iport'forofreshn
men students of Physical; tin. ~
time ij.he ? did maiiy> things, 'aiiiig-TW.c were getting, married; working for the Westlng- house and- DyqUesne .Light Com*, panies- and, .doing  some .underground- cable . work, Mr.. Keck 'rer. turned to Carnegie. . Slpce then he has takeover *he manige.ment.' of the C. I. -T. .lieating and. power plant, and under his supervision.' it lias-been run very efficiently^;-^-.Rather than talk; about .himself;. Mr. Keck ' prefen-ed to: flh.ow.:-me! around the' spic:and-epan -anachiii'! ery. ot which he Is naturally.^quite proud- - Leaving the lower -floociof Machinery Hall, we went doi
dormitories, and the houses that line Margaret Morrison street, to say nothing of the main buildings of the school. This subterranean level preaei eerie" sight to the uninitiated, for
of-huge pipes, each painted in .a more or less-brilliant color.. This coloi -.scheme is . employeiUfor a definite purpose. For -. instance, a red pipe means live-steam,- an orange one contains the heat for the heating system, a yellow one means exhaust' steam,-.-, green carries the-return water for the hollers--and.-a somber blue one.the hot wster..for^ the-vraBfe-roeme. Mr; Keck (now- dont get discour- aged- frlendsI reallze that this is
your' somewhat bewlldered-.report: er^down Into the.; very.t bowels of 
tli^...-;ea'rth:' via. , a-'dlziylngi.spiral, etatrway.i'to where the. huge boil-, ers-do^ their respective stuff; or is It- stuffs? Anyway, there are four, of;them.. eaclir blg-'enough' to hold^ a Democratic conventlbn-jn.-When Mr Keck-opened the tfBbr of the. onfe that- was going full blast, I t going to he a
the  miHlary - idepartment -^e^l arately- and then thfr^corea:were.-i( taled. Robert .-St^nab, Signal Corps senior ot the1 ftefrartirient of Physics, is the company commander;' He will'be -awardad*an 'erigraue&{ saber, the members wlll^- receive service; ribbon to be worn on th blouses, arid the company ^rlll'i celv a cup engraved-wlth its nani The corps area, commanders Inspection was made May 16 and"17 by Col. Ralph T. Ward, Engineer and Lt. Harold. O. Blxby, Signal 3orns. assistant to the.corns area Ignal  off leer.. The Inspectors expressed themselves as highly pleas1 to July 2. Inclusive. Visitors are welcome at camp; and the i here of the R. O. T. C. are urged to extend to their friends an Invitation to come to camp, particularly on visitors- day.
declded:'that:l.wasn't golng to h ^^(Continned oa Page Two.)
Wacplwn Puppet 
For Sale Today
>The final Issue of the Puppet foi tho present school  year, the Travel Number, makes. Its appearance  th campus today. The -price, usual 1s fifteen cents.;Looking ahead, to ie long
vacation travel. The outstanding feature will be ..- Jo.e Jackson Grins.- the short story of Neal Vinson *3f>, Department ot Mechanical Engineering, which won first
Michigan U. Professor 
Gives Physics Lecture
Dr. George E. TJhlenJjech, Professor of Physics at tho :TJnivers!Ly.-of Michigan: Ann- Arbor.- will deliver a public lecture tomorrow-nlght-.at 8:80 o'clock. It will be In- the Carnegie Union, Administration: Hall.-The subjeot-of-hls-lecture wiU-be.'The Theory of Beta -Ray- Disintegration." - No cards of admiSBlon -will be required." Mr. TJhlenbech 
D..-degree at-Le taught ithere from . ls2B-2
He ls .a fellow - in-' the American Physical Society. : and Is a member, of'- the Dutch' Physical Society. .Theoretical . ^ physics; . - Quantum theory7of' spectra. - kinetic theory
lubjects' Qnswhlch^'hehasMrTilteft.
Hill ii. siili
-!1S|
iil
- Caps-and gowns, which must be worn .botli. _ at, the  Baccftlaureat* Service ~ acd at Commencement
uniform collars. ;wh|ch may. ;, be obtained at.the Bookstore fprv twenty-flve. cents. >. 1 ,
Honorary Groups 
Formulate Plansprize in the rcent short storyored by PIN Delta Lpoi- natlonal journalistic fra
LeBter D. Van Valkenburgh:'6, Department of Aeronautical Engi
neering,. ..... .....The- staff plans to make several changes In . the general makeup of. the Puppet during .- the summer months .which will toe featured, in the registration; Issue In Sept< her
j : Campus Broadcast
rectlon of J. Vick OBrien from l:30; to 1:45 p. m. -The orchestra will offer-the.opera,'"The -Roses of Mer- catel;".'composed'by :the director of ; the orchestra, J.~ Vick- OBrien. The story'and. dialogue were written- bv-vCol. Frank : Parker Day.
Department  of.Music at Carnegie William- ' Davis ,  and : Benjamin Yaffee:of the Department of Drama will portray .the spoken rllnes; ;..Thispresentationwlllbethelast in a- serles of .radio hrqadcasts irom the Carnegie campus' '-V
Alpha Chi* Alpha, Pi. Delta :-. 
Epsilon Elect Officers ...
Carnegies -journalistic honorarles elected officers and made plans foiv-v. activities, during the coming .year , last week-end.Alpha Chi Alpha. , womens na- ... tional Journalistic honorary,- electr ed the following officers at a meet-- Ing held in -Margaret Morrison last. ; .;: Monday:- Emily- Kramer -36,.president? Dorothv Booth :a7, secretary; - Blva Hendel '37, was elected r6pre^. - sentative to A1 Chi. tho societys, national magazine- Dean Green entertained the nem-r bers-. and pledges of. the honorary,;.', lostr Sunday-, afe;-her- homo ria^thc;*.;^-; Ruskln apartments.  Pledgea .will;-;,~v be Initiated Friday \ evening-cprert:;^ ceding a; dinner; at CameglB. rnn.- ' :.-'.^.'PK Delta  Epsilon;, national!,'pub- : ..T licatten^ honorary, elected, the ;1fol- w5; lowing officers - at a meetings held-; ..< at the .^Beta Theta  Pi -fraternity^ 
last. Buildav.'<. James \M.-;Latta--^.fa?v; was re-elected -president:  Edwards E; McDonald; night:student,;waScjei!iLL elected vice president; and.-Eraeb^av-v , CSwiie)iB.ueri..'i.ft: was e.iefi.tedzee^^^.v retanr.- .-.Following- - the t elections.^asS?: banquet .was held for the-pledgM'T^ and members... ' Plans for next year rinclude^an^ otheic ebort- story cohtefee^elmyar^S; to the one which ffas received .wittir^i.lj such; interest this - season. ;; ^ vAfcameetinglastvTxieBQay.vthtf^-*, following new offlitR for th >*ar 1 36 were elected by the nop-bers of PI Alpha D-ltn, Prlntlnn 
Department honors v 1 .Rrb^rt J McFarlin pmldent J R!3lttiidHilV?*ic*Pr*Mdent:''J,ei E'. Kappel, treaaowf,*>; " Ji4uet,:e^tte-;nt^-

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. MAY 28, 193S
<3Ttic dTatrtiecjie STartaa.
A'tirrlithgiMini'g'tr.1,'?KAXfoNAi; ABERTSIMO: apB-VICE. INC.'-1 Wort Foriy'-cbQdStreetT NewYork ... 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS . ASSISTANT FEATURE EDITOR: tJUNIOR EDITORS: Loulee Bald; Dorothy Booths Rlehanl Bjrrne, Homer; William Lord. Alberta 1
REPORTERS : RobertGarahan. Btty
SPORTS STAFF: ^gtno ^Fei 
BUSINES I^STAFF : Robert' .
cnberger. Mur Lou S   Fnller. Robert I
It Still Needa PushingT
HREE major accomplishments stand out 
on the records of the 1934-35 Student 
Council. First we recognize that tbe Spring 
Carnival was most successful. Secondly, we 
saw better'control over school elections. But 
' n accomplishment which was truly outstand
ing was the progress madb on the activities 
building question.
Last year we were enthusiastic over plans 
for' a Clock Tower. Council becaiu? inter- ested lu the project. Biit the plans-were too 
"vague. The proposition had not been carefully 
. thought out. Emotional enthusiasm Is not a 
. sound foundation upon which to build. A
.straw vote on November 6 showed that tbe 
students were not in favor of a- Clock Tower.
' A widespread belief, that the funds spent 
on the erection of a Clock Tower could bd put 
, ;into-a'building whichwould serve a more 
practical use, was one of the reasons why the 
Clock Tower plan perished.
Close upon the heels ot the straw, yote Stu
dent Council began considering the question 
of an activities building. The Brown House 
was suggested. Although there were several 
. serious drawbacks, due principally to the loca
tion and architecturat-features of the .Brown 
House, Council realized that even a temporary 
. building would be an improvement over pres
sent conditions.
V.' Annually a sum of money has been set aside
 by both day-and night Student Councils which 
' will some day be used for an activities build
ing. The balanc es now about $18,000.
Members ot Council have recognized that 
- even though th.Brown property cou]4 -ba s&-. 
cui\ed from the school it would be~ merely, a 
means "to an end. Eventually Carnegie must 
have a permanent building which will accom
modate all collegiate activities.
We are now laying plans for a third and,
 we hope, inai proposition. The ultimate de1-
 elre of every Carnegie undergraduatea per. nsanent activities building. The Tartan and
 the Activities Building Committee of Student 
'Council. wlli uah the proposal to the utmost.
' . A graduate student in the Department of
- ' lAxchitecture has chosen An Activities Build, ','ing, for Carnegie as the subject of his thesis.
\ < Th; plans, .If carried out with a few minor 
yV>cheiAgea; -would' give Carnegie' the finest- sluI^n* union in the country.
;Tr ' .V'iThe..'students want an activities'building.
'There la a very definite need for such  struciV-turer.;.. Student Council is behind the move/. -.'mat. The administration is favorable to the 
(/proposal.
^"Carnegies Board of Trustees have never op. 
*osed-any project which they believe is for the 
V,-welfare of th student ' body. They : did hot 
' ' oppose the Clock Tower nor the. Brown. House, 
v-t&e .merely waited until student opinion set--; ; tled.uppn one definite object. Tliat object!
' ls achieved. .Council asks nothing better than 
to present to Uie Trustees the .cpmpletevpro* 
' . gram for the erectionof a Cat*negl6 Activities 
'.'building, . .. ;
If the Board of Trustees will co-operate 
may look hopefully at the future student 
- tlvitiea center.
THE GOVERNMWr& V^AR AGAINST 
CRIME
_.. In .the.paat few years., the .criminal re.c-. ord of the United Suites has attained heights that have never been approached by any other civilized country In the world.
mated that the annual average cost of crime In tills country is gradually approaching the thirteen billion dollar mark.
Not until the enactment ot the "Lind-. . bergh Lawin 1932 dld Pederal law officers enter importantly Into; tbe national crime picture. This act launched the govr
in effect the Federal forces have established a splendid record in discouraging the kidnapping racket and. In terminating
April, 1934, were authorized by legislation to carry guns, soon ntade a strong hid for national attention and admiration. During, the drive period they have .been successful in convicting seventy-four kidnappers and killing twenty-odd gangsters, among whom were Baby Face" Nelson, John Dllltnger, and "Pretty Boy Floyd, noted bank robbers, safe crackers, and murderers. Th^Treasury Department also sponsored a crime cleanup In March, 1935. Their alms were to test the effectiveness of a nation-wide crime drive and at-the same time train their 11,517 special Alcohol Tax, Narcotics, Custom, Secret Service, and Coast Guard. agents in concerted \ action. This cleanup resulted in 2,38S ar-: rests of smugglers, dope peddlers, boot-: loggers, nnd counterfeiters.'
A great deal of governmental legislation outlines the curbing of crime as one of its objectives. When the' N. R. A. was put into effect it was decided,that its success would encourapis tbe national war on crime because of the redistribution of wealth . and the vmd, :getting* opportunities it ad- vocated One of .the chief purposes .of the
WE BIT ITBMZ . . . Sucker gags' always 
make you feel' rather' silly. * The' other 'even
ing a.mug jsllp^^ Upi tp jUe wlth a gltet in hls'TnfpferSbini^ 6oftiy. ." '.  -
Yeah?" we inquired.
Yeah, was the answer, "Im Pershing for 
drink.
CYNIC SILENCER. ... George Klttredge, 
dramat de luxe/ was., going to. the Beta PI 
Formal. Some 'curious -soul wondered:
Who's taking you, George?"
IMinnle.
'How. come?
'Oh, she nsked'first. '-
ART-AND THE MODEL . . . Thot tall blond^1 
occasional date of "Old Farm House Miran
das Is none other-than one.of the life classes 
best models and are we wondering.
CANT TAKE. IT . . . Johnny Richmond, ed
itor of that sterling campus ' impertinence, 
confessed in a Tartan interview of a few 
months ago that even he doesnt read the 
Puppet . . . which makes it practically unanlPretty Low EthicsS
INCE the beginning of the second semes
ter, four architectural books belonging 
..the library have been taken from student bor
rowers. Tlieir aggregate worth is ove:
Tlie last offence entailed the disappearance of 
a French text. This book, whose publication 
.has been discontinued since 1910. is highly 
prized by the Fine Arts library. The volume, 
Incidentally, will coBt some Innocent student 
: $12 to replace. It seems to us that-a college 
' student's ethics should be higher. Ignorance 
-ican be no plea for such an offense.
.They know better for, if such were not the 
;.bftse they would not'be here. We who take 
'great pride in the reputation of ouf schoormust 
'take the responsibility ot ferreting out these 
Undesirables. Each theft from the' library 
 does a threefold harm: it hurts the school, the 
library, and the sludepts.
We ask you to think seriously of this jrobIem. not to condole it. but fight to eradicate it.
jy.Ciis Conservation Corps was .also eitort to. curb crime. The employment of 850,000 C. C. C. men In September, 1934, took them far away from! the., slums and reestablished i'uem lu other regions. 
In December, 1934, 600 leading crlminol- iglsts, lawyers, government officials, social workers, and law enforcement officers met for Attornoy General Homer Stille Cummings Conference on Crime. The purpOBe of this meeting was to cement Federal and local police into one great family and "to prepare a way for. a definite government organization attacking the causes
plleh the proposed objectives if . they are favorably acted upon by the legislative bodies. The first resolution was to establish an educational center in Washington to train police in an eight weeks'-crime
Justice. The second was to coordinate crime control by the Federal and State Department of Justice. The third-requested Federal and State cooperation to eliminate youthful delinquency by furnishing, education. vocational, and recreational opportunities. Another requested, legislation to abolish dramatic crime stories appearing
of firemarras, and convict lawyer criminals. A recent Crime Conference held in New Jersey and attended by representatives from the surrounding states, emphasized the same general factors. They also advocated a central finger print collection equipped with the prints of , all adults in the United States. This resolution has already become partially effecROBERT GREINER.
On tke Aisle
Prosperity: Returns; Longs 
Guarantee Put to Shanie\
Savings Accounts Are Poor Investments as Chain 
Letters Sweep Country; Mere Dime Mounts 
Rapidly to $15,625 in Current Racket
Dear Editor
NO NICE GIRL CHEWS. .... At the TarSn 
Style Show and Dragon Dance, of -lost 'March, 
Dean Green again played a hit part'in another 
drama with some unidentified' gal as .stooge. 
The woman was wailjng for her date .in the 
anteroom of Thistle'Hall'and was quietly 
ticatlng her chewing gum when !E>ean Green 
sidled over with her juet-too-peachy-for-words 
smile and said:
'We dont chew.'gum at our social funcPROSPECTS OF A COOL.SPR1NG . . . Miss 
Kloos has the jump,.literally on Ma'rgaret 
Morrison in general. She gave her Campus 
queen party to Student Council in : February. 
Followups as-you go along. Price of admls- one vote. Depreciation  whats your 
reputation worth?
VIRTUOSO HUMORESQUE . . - Earl Wild, 
;e among planleta and a doubter 
raked In lots of glory with a recent 
comeback. In a discussion of Marshall: Bidwell, one music student piped up with:
I dont like him, he twitters too much. 
'Youd twitter too if you had an organ like 
that, countered the ever ready Call of tb'a 
Wild.
SPEAKING OF CLOTHES, we See that the 
late editor of the Tartan ia..ln for a suit from 
the Music Corporation of America for libel 
his. Arts Ball orchestra .editorial. Person
ally, if tlie M.' C. A.' collects this suit
e them get that Gawd awful three-button 
burlap that .Landsberg looks so .educated in.
ADD IMPOSSIBLE INTERVIEWS . . . Mar
garet Sanger' and the Dionne Quintuplets. .
when Riggs (N. C.) is asked to-explain 
problem iii Mechanics- he generally adds 
touch of -legerdemain. Referring-to the prob 
lem:- quote. If you men will watch.the black
board. I'll go through-It, unquote;-
' 'B-'VIrirt .Mathr * 
Huey Long guarantees us ;
dollars, 5,000 dollars 1b mere loose change. We have turned tbe corner and have come face to face with prosperity. Just send 'ten cents to the name at the top of the list and then settle back .while your'I dime collects interest. Why put your- money in the bank to earn your 4; per cent semi-annually, when with tbe simple little device 
of the chain letter you Easy Street in no time? Of course there ,1s the slight drawback that someone may break the chain, put their name before yours on list but what of it? Banks fall. Send out one letter-and you i comfortable sum, two and you become a Capitalist without e the trouble of clipping coupons.
To make sure that the chain will not be. broken, make sure of your friends. In case any doubt as to their honesty arises in your, mind, you can- always draw a black hand at*the bottom ot the letter and add such subtle roinarkB as "or else, and "my wife and six children art starving." The technique fetches them and also makes the readii 
ore interesting.
The only expense involved dime, a stamp for the
Letters ^printed are the opinions ot readero and should not be confueed with the editor lal policy of the Tartan.
____t_______ ___ letter; |
and five other stamps for the let-1 ters you send to your friends. This makes a grand total of twenty-eight cents. At the end of the month, or the others on the list are as enthusiastic as you, you are absolutely guaranteed to be a Capitalist. From the sum .of $15.625 which you will receive .Bubtract the- original of twenty-eight cents, and your profit is $15,592. less the price of enough dime banks to hold your money. If you hove the making of a real Capitalist, youll cut down the original expense to five cents by forgetting about the dime and sending your lists of names on post- cardB. This is the best idea yet account for the
missing dime, you
charity, just like real Capitalists.If your accuser is a hurley fellow, tell him the postoffice confiscated your letter. It's always safe to blame things ou the government, and it gives you a sort of prestige over your neighbors to have something to growl at tbe government
Never let it be -said that the American people are not versatile. We dont slop at anything so un Imaginative as sending dimes. There's a chain letter for every walk of life; send-a-dollar-letters for Bankers ; bump-of&de-buy-at-de- head-of-.de-llst ones for other forms ot Capitalists, and sen'd-a-plnt-of- whiskey ones for everybody. May we suggest a send-a-good-reason- son - why-I-came-to - Carnegie - Tech letters for students. When the i5,- 625 reasons come rolling ' in, one could maybe write a theme on that subject. And how about a date-the- girl-at-the-top-of-the-list one Wall-flowerg, or Bend-your- and-address ones for Lonely I Hearts. !Start a chain letter and get a job in tbe Postoffice. After a few months of this Christmas-time condition in the Postoffice, perhaps Mr. Farley will reduce' the letter rate to two cents again. We picture him smiling complacently about the ituation, s proud of the teeming malls as if hed originated the chain letters himself. If anything pulls the Postoffice Department out of the red,.' this craze for dimes
You remember th uncertain attitude of the Postoffice concerning the situation? How they first confiscated all the dime, lettersfor charitable purposes, no doubt? Well, just between ourselves, they repealed that verdict because or the employes, detailed to sweep up the ten-cent pieces in which every one wallowed up to their kness, went. mad in a restaurant the other day and choked the cashier by forcing his change down her
FRONT PAGE ARTICLE
MISREPRESENTS SITUATION
As a senior in tbe Department of Architecture I am compelled to write 'you that T consider last week's front page article 'ting room dlsti on of the poor prejudiced misinformation I have ever seen in the Tart seems to me that tbe whole affair was not half as crude as your reporters misrepresentation
of It.
In the first place, everyone ,in
Ing of a riot was ftaged in thesenior drafting' of the Coronation I requires serious.
the night all. A charette steady work o architect % stiff A plan
i say you gav
It seems she had given
On Second 
Tko-ug-lit
By Barbara Levette
A. C. E.
Sometimes one feels that the early imma- re works of now recognized playwr' ought to-be securely hidden where they not be found and revived. How much more charitable it would.be to'le'v iirpeacefiil ob
scurity Rachel CrotliPeopled than
......... . . -revealing- light ofdaj*. - The' Department of Dramabring it in^o ..the all-t
By Dorothy Dunbar Bromley ,.
The college boys and girls arent getting, fair break. For years we've been accusing, them of wasting their time and their parents' money, rah-rahlng and petting. Now^tliat large groups of them: are- beginning
The Track Team Has Done Well
>%*-^dNGRATULAT10NS-''are due: Coacli Guy 
^\>i/. HalCerty and hisvarsity track squad.. 
{&>: v.Thla is the first time in several yeare .that a.
^ i. Carnegie varsity athletic team . has finished 
:i.-":.::?the: season with its record untarnished.  *
^Although, the competition, .which the :team 
r.i-i'J : encountered was not the best, we belleve that 
4^ the team, was In its own class and that the 
same type ot schedule should bo made in the 
future: The students would sooner see the
various teams meet squads of their own cali
ber- We become discouraged: watching a 
whlch ls not the equal of Its opponents.
i example of a certain period in the American theater and in the development;of Miss 
Crolhers. . 
written in 1921, Nice; People. seeks
ealtliy young .wayward and pleasure-loving, whoi after an unpleasant experience with a friend of her own set, Scottie Wilbur, forsakes her evil city ways and . lives quietly and industriously In the country with the aid of her Aunt Margaret and a noble young man, Billy Wade, who exemplifies all the virtues ot the model'hero. Needless to say they fall in love and plan to live in
aforementioned unpleasant experience and dia- j&iserJts her when she refuses to marry Scottie. Upon meeting the noble young man his paternal wrath' completely vanishes and the curtain falls with Papa extending a heartfelt blessing and a generous'bank account to the 
loving pair.
"'Nice people1 is doue in the tradition of the well-made play, biit It has not the skill in technique necessary to disguise effectively its; artificiality. The first act did succeed in enp- turldfe somethJng..of., ihft .eplrit. oi..the. .period represented; but after that the play grew pro- gressivelv more banal, so that the final curtain was a welcome relief.  Apparent: throughout the play Is a straining after effect, an unconvincing use of coincidence.- 'The lightning- quick- changes-of -the. father-from^ an- attitude' of  indulgence to one of severity, and. back again are characteristic- ofvthe Javk..of. skill noticeable In the whole play. ,The production of the Departments Drama, particularly in' the .first act, was well -in keeping- with  the reRtlessness of .the-Jazz age de- cribed - for It was directed with a certain Serk- lness which . set, the. mood ^for . the whole. Teddv. Sarabel Browarsky; was particularly high-strung and nervoue.-completely- in .keep? ing '"with her part in .the first act and even In the second, but quite out of character, in tho last- where  the marvelous .calming, effect of
audience.: Carl Dozer did,-what, he could with the difficult job  of: making the noble; young man seem plausible, a rather thankless job at> 
.best.-Mary Hublev was a helpful and sympathetic.
______________ _ think and
liYT'serioUfcfs about-'such moiuetoua* subjects^ as war and peace, they are either slapped 1 the wrist by* some college-administrations accused by some publicists of indulging, in emotional-sprees.
At Hunter Collge five girls are still locked out of the classroom, and one/is an honor dent. President Eugene A. Colligan has refu'9- parley with them,'insists they bring their
By Barbara Levette 
I have, not undertaken to perse
cute the rich, but, on the contrary,
I haye sought to favor them. 
From a speech.-by. Huey P. Long 
-ia the United States Senate. (Co) 
-gresslonal Record. May 12, 1932, 
Seventy-second Congress. First Ses
sion).
-This from;, a man who has secured a following of about six mll- llon, American workers by promising to make "EVERY ' MAN'A ICING! Yes, six million people in the United. States who will back Huey Long for President. Because he promises to educate those who can .-not get an education now, because he promises to give everyone a comfortable Income, and because he promises happiness where >w-|s pain and sorrow!
Indeed, ifr -Huey was sincere- and able to carry out .his promises, we would all cheer for him. It is because he is not sincere that we must fight hie,Increasing power.
In Loulsiana-,Huey had a chance  show the ipeople -how he could >vem them. t -He has -shown us, -ad we shudder at his two-faced, underhanded .tactics. He rules the state.like a.n autocrat;-he has built dummy legislature, completely subservient - - -
parents alongas though th) their mothers
; still tid
People ifou Ought 
To Know,... |
Democrat. These boilers generate'
400 H. P. less than that generated for the Woolworth building.
We then went back to the head of the tunnel, where can be seen of electric cables that carry the lighting facilities over the campus. Into the making -of these .cables went 65,000 pounds pf copper. In winter, a maximum of 7,300 kilowatt hours. per day are expended.
Mr. Keck doesn't get much chance to come In contact with the student body in general, being lainly concerned with the stuthroughout, and Thursday night of charette has time or inclination to indulge in monkeyshiues ing. Before you allow such broad statements to bo issued for the whole school to read, you would do well to assure yourself personally of their veracity.
I know that nil the architects strongly resent the mistaken terms "  > them by the authorities,the seniors themsel' resented the unfair punishment applied to them immediately after the
several dra- mats. and some music - students, because of your notorious article, the whole department is unfairly ridiculed befor
There was not the slighest'justification for the message Dean Kee. ble intended for the architects alone to be blatted about -for the amusement of the entire Btudent body.
I have always questioned the truth ol' Dean Keebles abrupt statement about our department, and most deeply . resent its rude e ploltatlon by a hostile Tartan r As editor of the Tartan, linly owe the architects
On Other.......w
la^puses
Hearst -Metrotsne -Banned
Harvard(MCEA.)Hearat rotone News have been bann^' from tho : University:-; theater Harvard and.Radcllffe asa remii ofa petllion-ifomi 'the faculty wl student body, containing 1,273 Bit.1 natures, which was presented tbe manager of the theater.
Operation Increases Personality 
University of LoulBTllleJ (MCDA.)A womans personal^ was completely changed by a'^, markable- brain operation, accorij *   * a report by Dr. Stafford Act
lobe of her brain, she .......ordinarily gay and happy, alni^ childishly so. Now, after iT0 years, the changes are mature vA
of concentration, fine- memory, egl a habit of making unhesitating fej cisions. She has a marked (et| dency of walking straight aheaj without looking to right or left.
 being placed every
-type ot wo and was never equipped for any other kind. In other words, Frank Miller Keck is just a Born Engineer.
and apology for lastweeks inBolent disloyalty to of the finest departments in the school.(Signed) AMY L. THOMSSEN.
PUBLICATIONS CAN HELP 
CORRECT UN-FAVORABLE 
CONDITIONS
Dear Edltoi
with their many difficult problei I believe that , if such conditions public they, would.
The late Jane Addams .....of tbe pioneerB'In securing a and unadulterated milk supply for
___the University of Illinois Co!-!lege of Agriculture'in Its original) research on the city milk supply.
Top Water Missing 
Worcester Polytechnic Insllld'l (MCEA.)It was in the chemlsty laboratory that . _~
tho instructor finally decided to ot-| fer his assistance.
"Something you cant find? 
The freshman looked at his labJ instructions. Its this tap walw,| sir, he said, turning again to shelves.
1 Debts vs. Education 
ersity of Colorado- (MCEA.)"It would be possible! for 117.000 American students Ip Btudy for a yearin European w' if the war, :debts which owed to the United States were be used for-such a purpo
they do want to know or d. t*i only think so only think they * to know what they do wanl know froqi the newspapers becanaag
What thy wantIbluk they I 
ant to . know what they ^ the newspapers is. to 1
it has happened .<______________... that day U|same day and not the day before.- GertnideStein.
T. R. TAYLOR.
by the junior dass. In connecUoag -wlth tbls traditionel-event, a: ber of social affairs, such as b
_________ .. wlllj .he hasplaced a puppet in the governors -ehiir* -hav created a. whole eer-- ies of boarda-r&nd commissions  to control the states financial and tax structure -..throwing-the -main' burden of taxation on the backs of the poor; and he has transferred local 
police powers '
uls the fight to'nftalii ' blt,'to'' teach: doctrines and to adhere to principles opposed to the theory ot military training.Heres a New York newspaper that scathingly says sentimentality and ignorance are. poor weapons "with which to fight Mars." Whose sentimentality, and whose ignorance, may I ask? A mere housewife, on the other hand/ points out, It is Just possible that these young.people have done some studying.
________ , _ World War veteran,he is poorer and wiser by reason, of his service and rather : ashamed of his pugnacious 'patriotism ' of that  period. ' He has a son who ia opposed to war and he says he is "proud of his judgment, which Is far superior, to what his own was at his age. He. thinks 'has, perhaps, profited by his dadi mistakes. . '
Aunt Margaret and Joseph Batcheller-a.-prop-i erlv gruff and changeable father PaxUcula.rly 
amusing .n
well-appointed;'. colleges which, have been made possible by-rich mens.endowments. _
"It that isnt' hysterical reasoning. I don't know what is.' The great universities of France and of self-respecting countries like Denfliaric^iiS supirorted hy- the -stace; -imt iij; rich* mens', beneficence. Those countries realize that *11 young people have an inherent right to education as long as. they can take iL 
As people grow older they grow'mo.re coward- Too many  are'. afraid to strike * 1 ,-i
______ . the state. In Con-_____, Huey voted for the Ch'Ud Labor Amendment, but he saw that it was defeated in Louisiana. Huey stated that he was in favor of ganlzed labor; although in his < state labor organization Is so weak that workers on the highways, airports, and public buildings ' structed under the Long ' regime received as low as ten centB an hour. Yes, Senator iHuey P. Long fcag -hKJtlv -described "Loulfllana Hitler.1'
In Germany the people were swayed hy the same sort of promisescollege education for every- ie! a job for everyone! happi- issfor all! We know how these omiaes were kept. We also ha'_ practical examnle of '.Huey Long
government. And--------to those who are not. aewiveu___.... . hea and- distortednewspaper articles to fight the danger -Huey-Long's  gTowipg 
power.
VACATION DOS AND DONTS
 In, the Woods:- .. , from
* strange wells,________ boiled, or state'certkflcd for the present- year. In
disorders.:2.:--If yo poison ivy wash exposed part In" at least fli rJhaiof -soap, and . water.  in; a serious case see the doctor,3. Break a burned match. dropping, ft, to he sure.th; flame.Is. extinguished. Never lea%
unless the water 1 ' for the .avoid Intestinal <
1'flr t-'mhef bfrng.
n>w-\path.;" Let tihe-.ldaters keep their hands; .offvth6f young.:.i.eopl who. are trying to. jn'k. thia a oetter.^nd a safer world to live In. They- '  " flo't, tvlt fast; in.yesterdayi a'
Troy;- N. Y.Doing away with the the alphabetical system of grading profeasore and instructors at Ru sell.Sage College, for women gav jpiit ttheir .first marks; here recently under^a.new. system-.'which either paaie, fails or-condltloha the stu
dents
- othei

---------------------------------------------------

->TTtR^CABl^CTgi^TS;TaJESbAtyllirAV28,-"l>35SPPPP
THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
9  . \
By SCOTTY CHARLES
Halferty-Goaches Squad | 
To First Perfect 
Record in Years
Skbo^Dffeat^mtv h  j 
Unbeaten, i1 
"lii Trm^ Seasofi
MushballEinal 
WoniByTiX. 
In Dull Contest
f HAUFEp,TV'S TRACK TEAM how-has an undefeated, Untied 
record to wav^ Jn t)^ roaring breeze.^ Some cynics have mentioned 
^,e fact thatthl* schedule was;a eetup- This Is not altogethsr so - 
most of the meets were with equads of approximately the same caliber 
the boys an even chance instead of stacking them up against 
teams wherein they wquld suffer :certaln'defeat. it should also be 
realized that this squad is working under difficulties of many 
g very well considering all .things. *
Congratulations, then, Coach Guy, for. pulling through with flying 
rs. We must admit the Gil Doble front has U6 gues6lng.
NEXT YEARS FOOTBALL'CAPTAIN or co-captains as the case may 
will probably be elected by the time you read this. Therefore, 
predictions would look very foolish, being wrong after tbe event had 
taken place. For this reason, we let It go with dishing out our. extra 
helping of congratulations to him or them.
WHEN WE ARE LOOKING FOR A LITTLE NEWS we usually de
pend upon tho rifle; team; lor. an Item ofveome sort. This one we 
scouted out ourselves. . '
Pitts rifle team-beak the Tartan shootsmen In-only one match, 
in winning this competition, the Panthers wero greatly helped by their
m____ whose name .we"forget and cant find. After the
match the results were published in the evening paper. In the.column 
beside the rifle story was a list of Pltl athletes'fecholastleatly ineligible 
lor competition. At this point, the Pitt number two marksman and Abou 
Ben Adhem had something * '-----
GIQLMA RUNS LAST 
RACE FOR CARNEGIE
Plebe Team Completes Year| 
Undefeated; Promises 
Varsity Material
proud of his 1936 varsity track team and Its undefeated, untied record. By winning the meet Wednesday from Geneva, he finished the 'season  with - the < record', of' be- > ing the-only" .coach at Carnegie to > bang up a clean sheet Although > Coach Halferty has had few really outstanding stars, as In former ' i, he has made good use of his material In molding a balanced squad.
This year the victorious Tor-1 tans made a clean* sweep of i schedule Including: P. A. A_. West*
- Track Summaries 
00-Tsri dash'Won by Ferina, Tech ;
440-yBiri daabWbn 
(va. Tire51.2 ncotit
>ad. McMahon. TV*h : third! I
-"hls-name led the rost."
va. Dlstanoe(161 fci threwWon Dud,' UcCune,
mp-Nison.Ci
fwt, 10%
Plebe; Netters 
Close Season
T. Xs. .Outstanding In 
1935 Intrainurais; .
Win Two Crowns
for In the post few years'the Ge- iquad has been a tumbling block. This year, howCarnegie lads traveled to. the Beaver Falls track and romped oil with the meet easily.
At Geneva the. score was 93 to 42. Perlna, after running ft close
WAS WITH CONSIDERABLE WEEPING, and gnashing of teetb 
 learned that the olumnl-varslty golf match waB called ofi for 
r&rlous reasons, principally exams and tile physical Incapacity of 
members of both squads.
AFTER A LITTLE CAREFUL COUNTING on the fingers, .we are 
brouflht to the realization that the. 1934-35 sports year Is completely 
washed up. This leaves little for! a -columnist to say what with the I 
recent Will Hays campaign. Oh yes, Ackley.wants It known to 
and all that the pool will be open for- one and all during exams. .(That 
last statement Is limited to the male population.) '
AS A SPECIAL ADDED DISTRACTION, we are presenting' Guy Halferiy Junior on this page. The Tartan's wandering feature plugger 
who has been known to write on anything at ^moment's notice de
cided to Invade the sporting world. Accordingly-.we willed him part 
oMhe column with,our compliments..
Frosh Feature Writer Tries Hand , 
As National Sports Commentator
The last week-end was plentiful] In 'thrills, as far as the world of I sports is concerned. -What was probably the most spectacular t of all occurred right here In own Schenley. Park, wlierein ncomparable Babe -Ruth, with  the Intention of settling the - ru- iors that he Is through for' good. i .baseball, hit' no leaa-than, thr.fee' > and-a .slDglct InrSatar-: day's game at Forbes Field. The Bambino drove In' six of - the And with all : or that, the Bucs sUll won the 11 to 7, marking the third the series that they had I. beaten Boston, and bringing their- t wins to-six- out' of the last eight games.-
 Jesse , Owens, amazing ^Jegro
The University of Michigan, (Ann Arbor) boasts the honor, of having been the location of the first fraternity house to be built in Amerl- 1846.
m Dana College (Newark, iN. _jmes the report that a professor and another professor's wife recently helped a labor union picket a store. .
In a rather slip-shod aQtalr the Theta Xi mushball team defeated Alpha Sigma Phi U-S. The game was'marked by errors and general poor playing on both sides. Bill Splsak pitched for the victors and had command of the situation throughout -the contest. Tallying most of tbelr runerin the first four innings, the Theta Xis settled back to enjoy the lead they had secured. Everything went well until the last inning when, with two men out, tho Theta Xi Holding suddenly went hay-wlre and five runs came across the plate, putting Alpha Slg within striking distance. It was with a great sigh of. relief on the T. X.'s part that a third out.wns -finally secured, and the gome end* ed with- the new . champions three runs to the good.
The victory gives Theta XI o leg on the trophy with two mo needed for permanent possession.
In addition to this championship the winners of the mushball crown I won tbe intramural basketball I competition from Delta Tau Delta | last winter. The only sport In whfch Ihe-T. X;s failed to place swimming which- Kappa Sign;, -.
Ten Pass Senior ; 
Life SavingExam.
Defeat Mt. Lebanon In 
Finale; Season Even :
The piBld . telmlspletiqqVwoii 
two out'Ot three ^matches1 last week 
defeating - Duquesno and Mt. l*b\on, but-losing'to Pitt The Tech 
ladswhitewashed Duquesno 6-1, 
k-ere trounced by the Panthers 7-2, 
>nd defeated' the high school boys 
6-8.
In the match with ML Lebanon, 
last Saturday, tbe Tartans divided 
singles matches and w< 
three doubles contests.
The resume:
Fay beat J.amos (T), 6-1,
Bald beat Greenberg (T), 6-2, 6-2, 
Miller (T), beat Brooks 6-4, 6-4, 
Ackerman beat Overend (T), 2-6, 9-7, 6-2. Byrne (T) boat Wash*! baugh 6-3, 6-0. Evans (T) beat Salisbury 6-4, 6-4.
Doubles; Greenberg and Miller (T) beat Fay and Bald 7-5, 6*3. Evans and Overend (T) bent Brooks and Ackermnn 4-6, 6-4. G-4, Wogg and Byrne (T) beat WashWomens Athletics
> by Margie ..Green ...... ..
Tha.W. A. A. Boatfjs proud to' 
.jp.ort that they realty made a eerlWaroeB&meetingbut^bfotlielr 
retreat-, last .Supday,Newly-elected President Wettach' presented us with an excellent program, where*! In n detailed, list .ot next year's of* fairs, as well as fundamental, revisions of the Constitution itemized for discussion. What would you say It I should announce that the entire point system tor W. A. A. awards wns abolished? Well, go ahead and say it, tor that Is exactly what - happened. This movement has been smoldering ever since we began the quesUon .of rifle awards, at least, two months ngo, which In turn led to the whits Jacket1,000 point award.
Most of you will agree, I that the system of earning 100 points for playing 75 points for i practices has 1 loss. Most  ot
the final one of tho season for the Tech plebes. The boys managed to break even, winning throe and losing the same number. Those who
yports prtW&UTb'beB; flUedwith 
:^ltniBii^na,'ri^ea; !out for praotlce as regularly ,> as ^ theyg't''ChemiBtix'clQBB'with a polnt %wrdJ'itklng pliice of va grade goal, ther'ftyi defeating tho
by dlsiegrdlng lr&shtnn and soph*: e class schedules'in arranging
to participate In the junlot and  lor practices, arranged, according to the heavier': olass schedules of . tbe letter. A regular hour period will be scheduled for Tuesdays and Thursdays,' during which one -oC three' or four' simultaneous seasonal sports con be pursued In oi\e practice, and still another IE doslred.nt the next.__________1________;___
Butler University - (Indianapolis, 
Ind.) coeds woren't allowed to be
long to secret societies with young 
men back In 1S97, because It was 
suspected that one-iot tho iolUB* tlons rites was a kiss.-
THEK3 TO
track and field meet. The sensational star, branded the Marvel of " .the  age," equaled Frank i Wykoff's century.'
In tho 220' and' 440 Glolma, who has |
and Beall in the 440.
The Tartans scored three sweeps In the field events. Croft. Brown and Hall finished in the order | named In the shot put . Fltzwilson, Hall, and Brown, co-captaln of the I team, finished in the same order in the dlsus. lnng,. Crist, all tied for first place o:
I high, jump- Fritz won the pole -  -Ithl  *7and______third. ttzwilsoa was second inJ- the javelin, and Cross was third In the hammer.. Perlna, who won the lOOValsp won the abroad jump,, and | 
James was third, 
turned In an undefeated record 1 this year to complete th season. I They were, however, tied ln .one.| of their meets. The freshmai squadsh'onid furnish i varsity next. year;, for the- plehes; strong, Vin 'th >--weights .with
-CC < AT THE BACr
meli -i w r- -aellc/l
- "
of 9.4__, _ in, thetime of' 20.3. seconds, ran the 220seconds, ran the
able distance of 26 feet 8*4 IncheB, ;a: half-' foot':better: than the old 
record,Another thrill occurred In jolly old England, where America's Lawfrom* Ohio State .'University) pro* Tided,- more thrills by smashing three world records and equaling

---------------------------------------------------

* ^
THE^CAREGIE TAHTy ;
THE 
CRNE6IE 
PLAID
F Kg edited by Night School tatest f CaTHft* 'Iutitnta ot TsciusolosT- All vlein or opinions .xpnned In ti dito  eotoiDD am.'not nMumlly nvned Yr the BdltotUl Boud ot tiw Day School
WALTER J. NOIGOT StegE. F. WHITEWlLUAM. E. HAKE 
GENEVIEVE S0HOLTZ DAVO) O. DAVIS 
' ' ContribatomIdlWrdG*i' ; E-  MdKolUL
Appreciation
With thle, the last Issue of the 'Flald. for the present school year, . I take the opportunity to express my appreciation for the cooperation and support given me by members of the slaff, student body and faculty. With - tbe assistance I ' have been receiving, the privilege of editing tbe weekly issues of the ' Plaid was made a real pleasure. .
1 extend my wholehearted thanks to the staff members, those-listed os. contributors and especially to the writers of Night Lights,"'historical 'Highlights, and  'Tls ^Sald. These columnists are deserving ot a great deal of credit for . their untiring-efforts to present to . tbe student body/ in a novel manlier, the items of personal Inter- est to tbe Bight group. r The polloy in.editing' the night ^'.section of the Tortan has been to present a true, concise and unbiased  opinion of the .happenings both on .end offi.tbe campus. There were undoubtedly many persons and , happenings which were worthy of .praise or comment which escaped : our. attention'. .We have tried to cover every incident which would ..interest :the buBjr night student. We hace welcomed and'are thank- . ful for an?' criticisms which were 
offered, by the student body.: ."'The success ot the Plaid depends sot only, on the staff, but also, in bo email part, upon the students themselves. With a continuation ... of: the snpport shown during the -r :past month the night-section will - continue to. enjoy the greatest 
. success.WALTER X NOIGOT,- Editor.
Graduates
>'the Plaid joins the student body In congratulating  those students who. by their persistence and - tenacity of purpoBe, have successfully completed the requirements tor a degree or certificate. These graduates are dservlng of the highest praise, for making the .most of their- time, by. sacrificing their, leisure time to further their ambi
tions;'' .........., ,..V,One.of the most important deci*: aions In the entire,life of an individual Is the choice f a:career. There eometlraes arise .emergencies' in which the -Individual has no real freedom or^ii,9lce, but such -
of the decision. 
. obtain the iraining to ;do the thing ' .to which he Js^adapted and which lie wills, to' do, .provided he pay the ' price in work, lime and energy >which even the>;free education "* today demands,'.'Tbevman.who.doesnot enjoy the Vdoing*of the thing he must do dally,; who ,ls"not engaged- in work he -would rather do thananything else in tlie. world, never accomplishes . the bestreaults of which'he is capa- ble. .vThjs main who is .not doing tho' xtiing ^he' can do- best is never . successful -In the true sense of ' reaching" hl<j..own highest, develop*. ment and of rendering his best service; nor is he. happy.^'There are many Inefficient,- happy engineers' who might have : been .successful, and contented In other professions.-; There'are many f second.lor. third-rate: lawyers, doc* ;. tore andministera .who might have . - fceen .first-rate .engineers. One of the things 'to .be' considered, then, both from the' standpoint of bap; p!ness and .success.fe?-ln what direction lie the' tastea; and the line ...ot !greateat ability of-tbe Individ- . oal? '/>* .*
;',The night student has one ad* I vantage. in, picking out that spec- v; ialtywblcTti will ,be most beneficial to. him by havins some acquaint* ^ancewith the circumstances which.usually influence the details of hUf ' subsequent career. With the-gen-' :'veral training received at Carnegie; i--Teph, along with the actual '/periencfe obtained from . working
Skibo Columns Aided In 
Forming Night Council
tute.
During the-first year the issue contained four pages and each page was about 6% inches by 9% Inches. Beginning with the second year the was changed to 8 inches by 11 Inches and some of the Issues w enlarged to six and eight pages.Immediately upon tbe issue of the first number an appeal was ade to the night students through the editorial column to uBe this new news medium at their disposal to the fullest extent. News contributions were solicited and a small staff was named. It should be kept in. mind however that while The Skibo was financed by the Institute t was published in- the interests if the night students and its col* imne were at the disposal of the latter group.
At. times interest appeared to lag, it might be that the-lack of nee-: essary time. Kept -^ont^lbutlonB backfor all of us.Iinow.ttia't'going: night school is a big drain oh; is time to say.,.hothipig3irttw number of hours that are necessary! for outside 'preparation. , -Nptwlth1- standing all .tbe-'handicap$ confronting the night student? it Ib re* freshing to review .the insue'pf The Skibo and note the muitituflinouB
indies were devoted to night-students and their relations to activities. It is interesting to note also the number of different ideas and plnnB which were advanced from time to time. In order ' to make
knowledge or technical knowledge.' e Skibo preceded the formation of the Night Student Council and through Its columns much if not all of th8 data1 concerning thereof Hgnb presented. Through the subsequent years of
methods .were employed In. securing a workable staff. At first it was a voluntary contribution type, followed by faculty recommenda: tion and lastly a class election type having a student managing editor. Through all its vicissitudes The Skibo functioned- quite well and ful* filled Us. mission ii V for* It helped
C.S. EDMAN
PRINTER 6470 Monitor Street
flQuiRTtETi HILL 
BARBER SHOP
; 6823; FORBES STREET/ y
liberty Engraving Company!
_tISilNedaP aNutsdhP n 
gTrTc kcTgmHH krDomH n 
W kGToTQcDkGLM A
COLOR,NEWS and COMMER CIAL 
'ART- J
FOI? ALL ILLUSTRATIVE 4 
I FURPOSES_
Historical Highlights 
 of...
Night Student Council
Student Council 
Thanks Workers
{During the-past year,-the night student Council has carried .out a very successful. social calendar.id has also conducted other extra-curricular .activities on the night campus. Since the success of these activities was.: due to'the splendid support and cooperation of tbe student body and the Admlnls; tration faculty,'  the night student -Council wishes to'lake this opportunity of expressing their appreciation to. tbe student, body and to the Administrative faculty.
To. the social committees, to H..Stone,' night social chairman, and to.' R. AV Lahr, assistant sbclal chairman,.the.CouncIl wishes to express its thanks for the able work they performed in making the various dances 60 delightful and successful.The Plaid staff is deserving of especial credit in view of the changes which occurred in midyear. The staff ot the beginning of the year consisting of H. E7. Mc- Gannon, Editor, G. W. Vessels, News Editor, -E. F. White, Wm. Hake, and Harry Ingram, Associate Editors, were a very able staff and conducted.an interesting sheet. The staff'for t&e last part of the year; consisting of Walter Noigot, Editor, E. P. White, N$ws Editor, D.. O. Davis, Wm. Hake, and Genevieve? Scboltz, Associate Editors, was equally capable, and did fine work.John Schurko, Ed. W. Drensen and Genevieve Scholtz, members of the Thistle staff, have worked hard to better the night section and :
(The i students'who have worked ior the success; of .the activities: of ;thp i Night School have done tbis [work in.addlt on to their regular schedule, of school work. This sacrifice-of spare'iline for the good of the whole student-body is certainly ppreclated by .the night student lounclLA-C. GRIMM.President.
i pav the way for.'the formation of the Counci* and Berved; as a news medium for the. nlght'^tudentB.
NIGHT LIGHTS
The last.column of the.year finds us hunting V for ;-news that- havent dared to print'sill year- evidently < there Is nothing o_we' havent .dared to print' cept'oue.name) .-. . Thtise short',
about the homework.
credit Dave-with 20 minutes,- but Bill takes.only 9? . .. . Reita. Lahr comes' up 'with this that'E>ve, didn't have i
Ing i' Al. .. .letter gang, recently':! boqglit. that has -to have . 1,70D,OWI >' other suckers before the . profits, app.ear The Plaid staff topped off the sea- son with an hitarioiis affair at the Show-boat last Friday . . ..Everyone showed up. In full force- and the editor smlle.d,
STUDENTSWANTED
Five hundred Typewriter, all makes, Portables and .Standards, . sold,-- rented! r#^. . paired. $3.00 : one :menth^ 910.00 five months. .
American WritingMachine Company601 LIBERTY AV%NUE PITTSBURGH ATIantle 6488 .Bee. oor School representative DICK HA1IUONO 1: '
graduation 
Held June 10
Invitations Obtained At 
Registrars Office
the Syria Mosque at 10:30 A. T., Monday, June 10. Major General Edward M. Markham, Chief of Engineers,  United States Army, .will deliver the Commencement address. AJI graduates must be - present. Graduate documents will not ' be granted-to students who do-not 'at- tehd'.the'erercls'eBy unlss a satlsfa'ct tory excuse is presented in advance to tbe director of the -College.- Each-member of the- graduating class may obtain three sets of Commencement invitations and also tickets for admission'to the exercises se of parente ot the graduates, without expense, by calling at the Registrars office. The office will be open Monday evenings from to 8:30 for the convenience of night, graduates. Additional tickets will' be issued upon request and ligbt graduates may telephone the Registrar's office, requesting that tickets be mailed.,Information fon the Commencement exercises has been mailed to each candidate for a degree, diplo- jr certificate. Further lnfo'rma- may be seciired by telephoning Dean TarbellS office, Mayflower
Decimal System Of 
Measurement Adopted
operationInvolved In the. production of many, parts for its trucks. The new system is employed in dimensioning - of- drawings and In the subsequent-manufacturing, operations..The., halves, "quarters, 'eighths," "sixteenths. etc., up t '64ths of ani Inch have been e firmly entrenched in the minds of and production men as to warrant the belief that, provement was' possible - which ould retain the generally, accepted ngllati eyetem;of-measurement. > ' AdopUpn;of fdecimal tractlotis instead of common fractldns for-all subdivisions of-the inch, obtains
without - presenting tbe dlsadvanNight
Profeseional Engineers 
Registration Grows
doctors and lawyers. .The . mov'eional engineers has grown is Inditeen more, through the cffortB.of the National Society oi 'ProfesBlori- al Engineers with the backing' and cooperation of numerous national and engineering bodies. : ;It is - probably. , not generally known that the first state tov re quire the ^registration of professional engineers was Wyoming in 1907. Another followed in 1912 and the number has received added impetus
best be raised by official recognlstates, of which New York accounts for about' ten thousand. The depression has'undoubtedly prevented many who are qualified from seeking registration. ' With a return to normalcy and. the -. extension of licensing to other states, this figur^ )s .expected to be greatly augmenttagB -which hav<
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Brandt
Forbes and Meyran
THE OASLKD 
BANK
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
AOT1V1TY
TUESDAY, MAY 38. 1935
Administrative Faculty And 
Council to Attend Dinner
Members of Auditing -j 
Committee Convene
School , Problems 
And Improvements 
To Be Discussed
'Members of the Administrative faculty will be th guests of the Night Student - Council at' a dinner to be held Tuesday' evening at the Carnegie Inn. After the dinner conditions ; affecting the night school * progress ^111 be discussed.
r and .the :< ma<fe by i 5ht Studen.bers of the Night Student Council have always been given careful consideration by'the faculty. As a.mat- ter of-fact many of the'improvements made and new courses added the direct result of these meetMeetings of this ..nature have been held each year since the Inception, of. .the Night Student Council
ulty.
Comments or suggestions by the students-are.always welcomed and, the faculty urges the students not to wait till the end of tbe year, to discus's these problems with them.
An announcement' of' thi6 meeting wab made several weeks ago' with the request that students submit their comments to the members of tbe night student Council. The response to tbis request has been' favorabie -and will make this -meeting an interesting one. . Tbe problems discussed will no doubtibe given careful
faculty have been invited ias guests of Council: Dr. Baker, Dr. Ibrig, Prof. Lelghou, Dr. Jones, . Dean Green, Dean Tarboll, Prof.' Keeblo |!and -Mr. JicKelway.
Insignia Dinner Will 
Be Held Next Month
The insignia dinner ;plans s
Tis Said
THAT the new day staff looks -very promising. Do you like brunettes?THAT by the time you read
and the amateur nlght'crize'' writer has jfone dlzxy.THAT Lole Is laid up with a trick leg. The odd part of It 16 that he can't get a kick out of
of Carnegie Inn last week, with that self satisfied look that eomee only-from a greatly enjoyed free meal.1 THAT the ambitious night students who enrolled In the supplementary term remind us of the story of the postman who ..took.a walk on his.day off.THAT a few' students have still delayed making,their ticket returns. Maybe the P. O. department thinks they are chain letters.of the graduates
kneads. It.THAT we want more and better thumbnail* sketches:: w ( ATHAT Friday night the staff turned to maklrtg up with therr wives and sweethearts : after many Friday nights .of paper makeups.  -MM*';THAT a few students toolc a; short' Pullman ride one Sunday morning recently.THAT the faculty will be the guests of Council at a dinner;
THAT this Is the last you Will'
the treasurers ; of .the College -of Arts, Engineering and Industries and the President of Council, at a special meeting held Thursday, May 21, audited the books of tbe Council Treasurer and found all accounts entered and correct. A few accounts are Incomplete due to outstanding ticket returns.
few students who have failed to make returns for tickets to the various functions. The time set for retuins to be In to enable a student to be eligible for tbe insignia award was May 26. .This notification .was-, published Inrcdn t - issue 'of 'the Plaid to -enable * students '-'to make returns 'on time..
The report of the auditing <
financially. . Tbe favorable bal* due to combined economy and efforts tof tbe separate colleges and tbe .council proper, pares very favorably with last year's. It will be remembered tbal last years balance was tbe largest
Some distant relatives wouldn' 
be so bid if they kept .their distances.IndlnapoHs News.
Send Your 
Baggage 
Home by
RAILWAY EXPRESS
- No need -to bafden yonreolf with tl
lephooe Railway Expresa and 
uid safelywell all for the ehipipenia.whisk them away on fast pas*
For service or information telepboi 
. 52 Penn Avenue . ,, ATIantlc-3S00
- .Depot Office;. 26th St. and(Liberty Ave.
Statistics Compiled 
At Graduate Dinner
At the recent dinner glren bv D, Baker in honor of the night school graduates "some c very-- inlereaUn, statistics.on the place ot birth years of attendance were comply 
As Is the custom these statietlcs are compiled to show the extent oi the territory covered by Carnegfo Tech and the persistence ol th& night students in obtaining tbeir degrees.
From the seventy-one candidal, 
present at the dinner the foiiotfoe data on their- place ot birth wal compiled; Pittsburgh 22, Allegheny County (outside ot Pittsburgh H' Pennsylvania (outside of Allegheny County) 18, United Slates (outslds of PennBj'lvanJa. lO^Western rA,R (sphere (outside;' bf'.the Unitei States I, - Continental Europe $ British Isles 1.
The years of attendance were a* follows: fourteen years attendance 2, thirteen years2, twelve yeaii 5, eleven years6,. ten years-, nine years10, and lesB than nioe years40. '
These dinners are held annua]]; by Dr. Baker since he became pro. Ident or Carnegie Tech. The aboi, I
at your servie
Hoi) and farewell, Close of 
351 We welcome you to 
a wider telephone public
.Depend on the-telephone. 
The same speed and cour
tesy, the same honest 
service you found in your 
calls to family and friends 
while at college await you 
 as graduatesin the 
world of business and 
social contacts.
..whats left of your school term 
budget will take you home
by GREYHOUND
Y
OU neednt hock your faithful ticker to buy a ticket home. The remnants of your school-term budget wili pay your fare by Greyhound.
Frequent departures enable you to leave almost any time  -yog-like;-"As-youroll aiong springtime highways, Natures clean,-fresh air will banish the'1 last dull headache of exams and put you m the proper mood for a real vacauon.
S U MME R VAC AT I ON TRIPS
Every popular vacation spot, major scenic area, and large . city in America is served by Greyhound, either- direct or in " cooperation: with, short connecting lines.- -Vacations by - Greyhound cost less and offer more than by any other first- class travel method. Ask your-Greyhound agent for details.
K. G..HEPCER,Student Valet Shop 105'Welch; Hair Phohe: ,\ SChenley 94$8
Greyhound Bui Statio
1010 Liberty Avenue . GRant 5700
GREYHOUND
.afe
