CHAPEL TODAY 
MENS GLEE CLUB 
LITTLE THEATER 12:30
BASKET BALL 
MICHIGAN STATE 
CARNEGIE GYM. FRI,.
VOL. XXIV. No. 15CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH. PA.
TARTAN SQUAD LOSES TO PANTHER 
QUINT BY 24-18 SCORE IN FIRST 
ENCOUNTER OF THREE GAME SERIES
Skibos Drop Heartbreaker 
To Penn State Sat. 
Evening
Jimmy Chips Ghawley
Smiling Jimmy Demolishes 
Chipper Charlies 
Debonairness
Wednesday, January 8, Carnegie 
Techs basket ball squad opened its 
scries o home basket ball games by 
losing to Pitt 24-18. It w?s a great
ly improved team that represented 
Carnegie and too much praise can
not be given to our new coach, 
Buzz Hogan. Although this was 
the tenth consecutive defeat for the 
Tartan five by the Pittites, our pas
sers showed such unexpected bril
liance that the worm will turn in 
the near future and once again the 
Panthers will be found on the short 
end of the scoring column.
Coach Carlson apparently under
estimated the strength of the re
juvenated Techites and started his 
second team. Consequently his pro
teges were trailing at the half in 
spite of the fact that his regulars 
were inserted when there was still 
seven minutes to play. The fighting 
Tartans took the lead in the first 
three minutes of play when Captain 
Nease. dropped in two consecutive 
two pointerj. Pit1 retaliated with a 
couple of fouls, but Tech regained 
their four point lead when Nease 
and Merten made good their throws 
from the foul lii.e. After Fox had 
added another point from the foul 
line, Kowallis tied the score by 
caging two field goals and a foul. 
The Plaid offense again began to 
function and it wasnt long before 
they, had a seven point lead. At this stage of the game, the highly touted 
Pitt regulars, including the great 
Hyatt, rushed into the game but the 
rush ended there, for although they 
were successful in stopping the Tar
tan offense, they were able to make 
only one foul. There was no other 
scoring for the first hah, and when 
the whistle blew, ending that period, 
Carnegie was leading 14-8.
The Panther regulars started the 
second half against a determined 
' Carnegie eleven, but experience and 
team work soon gave them the ad
vantage. Two field goals by Hyatt 
brought the visitors within two points 
of the lead. Leonard was success
ful in looping another two pointer 
but the four .point advantage thus 
gained was short-lived. Field goals 
(Continued on page 2)
A.I.E.E. Hold TriDistrict Meeting 
In Pgh. This Week
The tri-district meeting of the 
American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers is to be held in Pitts
burgh next Friday, January 17. 
This meeting will be attended by 
delegates from University of West 
Virginia, University of Pittsburgh 
and Carnegie Tech.
The conference opens in the 
morning with an inspection of the 
Bell T elephone Company. This 
will be followed by a luncheon 
given by the telephone company.
The afternoon session will be 
held in the Chamber of Commerce 
Building. The program will include 
talks by students from the three 
schools. \ Carnegie Tech will be 
represented by T. B. McConaghy 
and A. F. Phillips, seniors in the 
Electrical Engineering Department, 
and A. Harrison, a graduate now 
employed by the Westinghouse 
Electric and Manufacturing Com
pany.
Mr. McConaghy will discuss the 
Trend in Public Utility Rate Mak
ing. Mr. Phillips will speak on 
How the Institute Can Be of Aid 
to the Members of the Local 
Branch. Mr. Harrison will give 
his views on the manufacturing and 
design of electrical equipment and 
machinery.
The president of the National 
Institute, Harold B. Smith, will be 
present at both the afternoon and 
evening sessions. The evening ses
sion will open at the Fort Pitt 
Hotel with a banquet. In addition 
to the regular talks, short speeches 
will be given by the presidents of 
the local branches. J. R.- Britton 
is president of the Carnegie Tech Student Branch.
Tickets for the banquet can be 
obtained by electrical engineering 
students at a special student rate 
from the class representatives of A. I.  E. E.
Carnegie Guilds Annual 
Tag Sale Will End Wed.
Todajr is the second day of 
the Carnegie Guilds annual 
membership drive, which will 
last through Wednesday. Tags 
at the price of fifty cents can 
be secured from any member of 
the Guild or Cwens, who will 
be stationed at different points 
about the campus. Any woman 
purchasing one of these tags 
.automatically becomes a mem
ber of the society.
The success of the Guild work 
throughout this year depends 
upon the money secured from 
the tag sale. Part of the pro
ceeds will be added to the fund 
which will ultimately be used for 
the establishment of a summer 
camp for needy children; the 
Guild is anxious to have this 
fund completed in order to finish 
this welfare work.Several worth-while projects 
are before the Guild Board now, 
but the extent to which they can 
be carried out depends upon 
the success of the drive. All 
Carnegie women arc urged to 
give their loyal support.
Eta Kappa Nu
Calls Nine New Men
Fta Kappa Nu, national electrical 
engineering honorary, makes . its 
first call of the year today, choos
ing nine new members, four seniors 
and five juniors. The following arc 
the new members: Samuel Bottonari, James B. Hardie, John Loer, 
Charles King Carter, George 
Ikola, Merle Smedberg, Jerome 
Wise, Robert Woodruff and Elmer 
Shotze. The call is to be private.
In order to be selected to the 
honorary, a student must be an 
electrical engineer, a member of 
either the junior or senior class, 
must be in the upper third of his 
class, prominent in activities, and 
must possess a pleasing character. 
Eta Kappa Nu makes two calls 
during the year, the first in the 
fall and the second in the spring. 
The following arc the jfficcrs: Al
bert F. Phillips, president; Robert 
Johnson, vice president; Norman 
Lindsay, recording secretary; Theo
dore Rosing, corresponding secre
tary; Robert Galbreath, treasurer; 
Charles Suesscrott, correspondent 
of the national magazine, "Bridge.
Herbert DuPuy, Trustee of
Carnegie Institute, Dies
Herbert DuPuy, who was a mem
ber of the Board of Trustees of 
the Carnegie Institute and the Car
negie Institute of Technology for 
seventeen years, passed away early 
Friday morning. He was very 
prominent in the business world, a 
great contributor to charity, and 
very much interested in civic ac
tivity and art.
He gave $5,000 to the endowment 
fund of Carnegie Tech; presented 
the Carnegie Institute with a rich 
and valuable collection of art: 
miniatures, fans, snuff boxes, 
ivories and animals; and has made 
frequent contributions to the en
dowment and operating funds of 
the Carnegie Institute. He will long 
be remembered by his many 
friends for the great work that he 
has done.
Fraternity Fined 
For Violation Of 
Period Of Silence
Kappa Sigma Forfeits 
Bond For Infraction 
Of Rules
At the meeting of the Interfratcrnity Council last Saturday, action was 
taken on the findings of the Rush
ing Committee on violations of the 
rushing rules. The most serious of 
the charges presented and the only 
ones that were actcd on by the Coun-r 
cil were two violations of the period 
of silence by returning rushes to the 
dormitories at one thirty the night 
of the conclusion of rushing season. 
Kappa Sigma Fraternity was fined 
$50 for the infringement on the per
iod of silence.
The present code of penalties for 
violations of the rushing rules seems 
to be too inelastic to cope with all 
the problems that arise in a strenu
ous rushing season. The Rushing 
Committee is to draw up a complete 
set of rules that will be adaptable 
to any conditions that could turn 
up in the present rushing system. 
Those of the new rules that are ac
cepted by the Council will be used in 
the rushing season next fall.
A plan for a change in the or
ganization of the Intcrfraternity 
Council has been suggested and is 
under consideration. The best plan 
seems to be the one in use at Ohio 
Wesleyan at present. Instead of hav
ing both Senior and Junior dele
gates from each fraternity on the 
Council, only the house presidents at
tend the meetings. The practice of 
having Junior members on the Coun
cil has been to train them for the 
more important part they take as 
Senior delegates. However, little busi
ness is carried >vcr from one year 
to' the next and the house presidents 
should be able to start the new years 
business off and carry it through 
with little trouble. Having the house 
presidents as the delegates should 
prove very satisfactory because they 
are best acquainted with the opinions 
and problems of their respective fra
ternities. In the Ohio Wesleyan 
plan the chairman of the Council is 
' (Continued on Page 4)
NEWMAN CLUB PLANS 
INTERESTING EVENTS
Tomorrow evening at 4:30, the 
Newman Club girls will have a 
Bridge Tea in the Cathedral High 
School. Bridge, Five Hundred and 
other games will be played until 
6:30, when the prizes will be dis
tributed and refreshments served. 
They will then be addressed by 
Mary E. Hcffermon, dean of women 
at Teachers- Training School, who 
will speak on The Kind of a Boy 
College Girls Like. Then Dean 
Wilfrig Mathewson, head of the 
English Department of_Duqucsnc 
University, will speak on The 
Kind of a Girl College Boys Like. 
The girls from each college have 
been assigned some part of the 
program. . The girls from Tech 
have charge of the cards, the girls 
from Pitt the decorations, and the 
girls from Duquesne have charge 
of the checking. Miss Grace.Moody, 
vice president of the club, is the 
general chairman#
Between 7:45 and 9:30 several 
basketball games in the Newman 
Club League will be played off. 
Immediately following the games 
there will be dancing, which will 
continue until 12.
Last Frida3r, Saturday and Sun
day evenings, at 5:30, the boys of 
the club were addressed by Rev. Fulton J. Sheens, Ph.D., D.D., head 
of the Department of Philosophy 
at the Catholic University of Wash(Continued on page 2)
Kostellow Displays Collection 
Of Rare Books In Arts Museum
A collection of books might not 
appeal particularly to Carnegie 
Techites, who are at least cursorily 
acquainted with the colors of the 
covers, the appearance of the pages, 
and the topography of the type, 
of a great many entirely too similar 
books, but these are different 
books  uncommon books  books 
with gay bindings and books with 
gray bindings; books with strange 
and magnetic faces within; books 
with print that stands on its own 
legs and looks you in the eye; 
books containing symbols and me
dallions, which, disregarding their 
meaning to the artist, arc even 
interesting to the ordinary reporter.
These unusual books are .part of 
Alexander J. Kostcllows collection, 
which, because of their uniqueness 
and beauty of decoration, print and 
illustration, are on exhibition in 
the Hewlett ^Museum of the Col
lege of Fine Arts from January 3
to 31. Mr. Kostellow, a member 
of the faculty of Fine Arts, is a 
well-known mural and portrait 
painter, as well as a collector of rare books.
Perhaps the best-known of the 
books exhibited is the Ambroise 
Vollard limited edition of Paul 
Cezanne. This book, the day we 
were there, was open at a repro
duction of a painting centered 
about a group of classical figures 
done in an unusually soft and 
colorful manner. It is beautiful in 
itself, and that cant be said of 
most reproductions.
One of the most fascinating of 
the illustrations there is that ac
companying Don Marquis verses 
on the Battle of the Keyholes. 
It is a colored print, showing the 
huge and evil papa keyhole, with 
his slanted eyes and malvolent 
features, surrounded by hundreds 
of dancing and blurred offspring 
(Continued on Page Four)
Ye Intrepid Plebes Gyp
Sophs; John Law Aids In Fray
By a Plebe
The bloody battle of Seventh 
avenue was fought on the night of 
December the sixth. There, under 
the covcr of darkness, a horde of 
plebes gathered. There were sev
enteen hordes there, if you catch 
my meaning. In other words, the 
freshman army consisted of ex
actly seventeen plebes and each of 
those seventeen men was a crowd 
They gathered in front of the CityCounty Building at 6 oclock and 
made a forced march to the battle
field. At about 7:15, hostilities 
opened. (Four scouts, sent forth 
for purposes of observation, were 
ambushed and engaged.) The army, 
seeing their desperate plight, rushed 
to the rescue of their comradcs-inarms. Up the stairs the plebes 
went until they came to the very 
portals of the banquet hall. Here 
the upper classmen received rein
forcements and turned to 'renew the 
battle. Undaunted by the over
whelming odds, the plebes engaged 
them. . At this juncture, the hotel 
manager arrived, displeasure -written 
plainly on his face. Threatened 
with the strong arm of the law, the 
plebes beat a slow and stubborn re
treat. . Far from the scene of the 
first conflict, the plebes collected 
their scattered forces. (In the alley 
between Sixth and Seventh avenues, 
a back stairway was discovered, but, 
unfortunately, it was barred by the 
managerthis time backed by a 
considerable number of hotel em
ployees.) Again the plebes re
treated. Scouting further., they 
found the fire escape. This time 
they nearly penetrated to the scene 
of festivities and fisticuffs a third 
time; But at the critical moment, 
(Continued on Page Four)
By a Soph.
Beware, young man, for some 
day the worm will turn! Thus 
counseled the intellectual genii to 
the class which with sophomoric 
dignity was endeavoring to impress 
upon the yearlings of this institu
tion the status of their position in 
this ethereal world. The sages 
proved right, for only last Mon
day the worm did endeavor to turn, 
but in doing so only confirmed our 
fears, for, like any similar biologi
cal specimen, it proved to be the 
same on both sides.
At times during that eventful 
day the freshmen did display en
couraging signs, but the bubbles of 
opposition were rapidly squelched, 
leaving only a few remaining for 
the Thursday siestas in 104 Indus
tries.
In the premier encounter of the 
day a class of twenty plebes suc
cessfully repulsed a handful of 
their persecutors in a dispute at 
thc"riflc range as the possession of 
the .yearlings president. A similar 
assault by the sophs a few minutes 
later was also repulsed, this time 
by the plebe class with the aid of 
the armys representative  Car
negies R. O. T. C. But this ad
mirable spirit in the persecuted 
class proved but a flash in the pan, 
for with a third attack impending, 
the plebes dispersed, leaving their 
highly touted political representa
tive alone, vainly resisting capture.
With the plebe president captive, 
all thoughts were turned to the 
evenings activities. The festive 
board was spread at the ,Seventh 
Avenue Hotel, and around it in 
secret conclave gathered almost a 
hundred sophomores, frolicking and 
(Continued on Page Four)
TOMMY CARE AND HIS 
VIRGINIANS TO PLAY FOR 
INTERSORORITY FORMAL
Arrangements have been com
pleted for Carnegies Intcrsorority 
Formal, which is to be held at 
the Terrace Grotto, Morrowficld 
Apartments, on Friday, January 17, 
from 9 to 1.
Tommy Care and his Virginians 
will furnish the music. This or
chestra is well known and liked 
on the campus, raving played at 
the Womens Junior Prom last 
year. ^
Dean Mary Watson Green is to 
be the guest of honor and the 
chaperones arc Mr. and Mrs. F. C. 
Claytcr and Mr. and Mrs. J. Vick OBrien.
Last years Intcrsorority ball was 
the first formal held by campus 
sororities. It was a supper dance 
held at the University Club on 
January 18. Because of the regula
tion against sororities holding for
mats during the rushing scason: 
the formal, coming when it does; 
not only is a climax to the semes
ter but acts as a unified meeting 
for all the sororities.
Carnegies sororities arc five in 
number and are local organizations, 
not branches of national sororities, 
so that the dance will be entirely 
a Carnegie affair. Katherine Hamil
ton is chairman of the committee 
in charge and is assisted by Peg 
Stillstrom and Olivette Hartyfcldt. 
The president of the Intcrsorority 
Council is Lavinia Holmes of 
Gamma Gamma Gamma; Peg Still
strom of the Beetle is vice presi
dent, Nida Jean Davis of Alpha 
Kappa Psi, treasurer, and Marion 
Soady of Beetle, se.crctar}\
MENS GLEE CLUB TO 
OPEN CHAPEL TODAY
The Mens Glee Club will open 
todays chapel with a selection 
from Bach. The Glee Club will be 
directed by J. Vic OBrien, head 
of the Music Department.
There will be no Intercollegiate 
Contest in western Pennsylvania 
this year, due to lack of financial 
support in past contests. These 
eliminations have been held in 
Pittsburgh in recent years. This 
year, however, Pittsburgh as a lo
cation is impossible, and there is 
no other city of convenient proxi
mity to take.care of it. Accord
ing to a letter received by Wilfred 
Worland, manager of the Glee 
Club, from Richard W. Grant, 
Penn State College, president of 
the Western Pennsylvania Inter
collegiate Musical Council,, there 
will be no competition in this part 
of the state until there is insist
ent demand from the schools rep
resented in this section. Accord
ing to the letter, this dfceision has 
been made necessary due to . the 
lack of local support. The National 
Intercollegiate Contest will, of 
course, continue as scheduled. 
(Continued on Page Four)
SECOND INSTALLMENT 
DUE ON TICKETS FOR 
WOMENS JUNIOR PROM
The second installment sale of 
tickets for the Women's Junior
Prom is now on and will, continue 
until the second week of the new 
semester. Examinations will inter
rupt -the sale for a week, but it 
will be continued immediately. At 
the beginning of the second week 
of the semester the final white 
tickets will be put. on sale. The
total pricc for these is $12, and it 
can be paid all at one time, if 
more convenient. At the second 
installment sale, red tickets and $5 
arc exchanged for blue tickcts. 
The blue ticket will later be ex
changed, plus $2, for the final
ticket. The white ticket is the 
only one with which guests can 
obtain entrance to the Prom.
Seniors who. did not attend their 
Junior Prom last year will be able 
to go to this years affair for $7. 
Alumni will also be admitted for 
the same price. Juniors, who arc 
paying $12, should remember that 
this pricc includes two affairs, the 
Junior Prom of 1930 and the one in 1931.
The Prom is to be held on Fri
day /ight, March 21, in the Urban 
Room of the William Penn Hotel. 
Negotiations for a good, promi
nent orchestra and for attractive 
favors arc under way. The com
mittee has been working diligently 
in an attempt to make this affair 
a success. With the hearty co
operation of all of the Juniors in 
both Margaret Morrison and Art 
School, this should be possible.
The committee consists of Elsa 
Weber, chairman; Louise Gilbert, 
(Continued on Page Four)
VIENNA IS SUBJECT 
OF ILLUSTRATED TALK
ViennaAn Experiment will be 
the subject of an illustrated lecture 
by Dr. William J. Van Essen, prom
inent Pittsburgher, on Tuesday noon, 
January 21, in Room 106 Arts Build
ing. The talk, which is open to every
one, will be under the auspices of the 
Social Problems Club.
Dr. Van Essen is a well-known 
lecturer. He has spoken before 
many civic organizations, including 
the Hungry Club, and he has also ad
dressed various church groups. He 
is President of the Pennsylvania State 
Optometrist Society and is VicePresident of the Pittsburgh Health 
Club.
Interest in the 'Iccture lies to a 
large extent in the slides which Dr. 
Van Essen will present. These have 
been collected by D,r. Van Essen 
personally after a great deal of ef
fort, and they represent an unusual 
group of illustrations of the Austrian 
city. Vienna is the only city in the 
world which has attempted to meet 
the housing problem, and the way 
in which it has faced the question 
will be of interest not only to the 
students interested in the world about 
(Continued on page 2)
TUESDAY, JANUARY 14, 1930
Student Council 
Approves Jr. Prom 
And Band Budgets
Feb. IS Is Date Set Aside 
For Traditional 
Plebe Parade
Due to the 'fact that a quorum 
was not present at the meeting of 
Student Council on December 3 
and December 10, the first business 
transacted at the meeting last Tues
day was the ratification of minutes 
of those meetings. Otic amend
ment to minutes of December 3 
was made before they were ap
proved. This amendment was to 
the effect that the committee for 
the Womens Junior Prom be re
quired to pay $5 for their tickcts 
whether the Prom is a succcss or 
not. After some discussion the 
minutes for December 10 were ap
proved without amendment.
After a long discussion the bud
get for the Mens Junior Prom was 
approved as read. The debated 
point was the amount in the budget 
set aside for hiring an orchestra. 
In order to cut down the list of 
complimentary tickcts, four tickcts 
were taken from the list. Another 
budget approved at this meeting 
was that of the Kiltie Band.
Mr. Ycrina, council supervisor 
of plebe regulations, requested that 
February 18 be set aside as the 
day for the Plebe Prom. A motion 
was carried approving this recom
mendation. According to the usual 
custom a petition will be pre
sented to the Executive Committee 
of the school requesting that the 
freshmen be allowed an hour or 
so to prepare for the Promenade.
The Plebe Prom is a tradition 
of the school, although last year it 
was omitted due to the short 
period set. aside for plebe regula
tions. It is customary for the 
freshmen to dress in costume and 
pass before judges in their separate 
schools. The judges ^select the stu
dents who have shown the greatest 
degree of originality and clever
ness in the choice of their costume, 
(Continued on Page Four)
RABBI KAGAN TO HOLD 
OPEN FORUM MEETING
Members of the Young Mens 
and Womens Hebrew Association 
Student Council have invited stcdcnts of Carnegie Tech, Pitt, Duqucsne and P. C. W. to attend 
an open forum meeting to-be held 
this evening at 8:15 oclock in the 
Womens Reception Room at the 
Y building, 115 South Bcllcficld 
street. The speaker for the eve
ning, Rabbi Henry Kagan, whose 
subject will be one of inter
est to Jewish students, comes here 
with the reputation of a stimulat
ing and interesting speaker. The 
open forum to be conducted by 
Rabbi Kagan is a new feature in 
the' varied and always delightful program arranged by the Y Council.
The members of the Student 
Council are planning a book tea 
for Thursday, January 23, at which 
George M. P. Baird, chairman of 
the Drama League Contest to be 
held next month, will be the prin
cipal speaker. Mr. Baird will dis
cuss trends in current drama. .
At the Y Council's last meet
ing Ruth Lieberman was elected 
first vice president of the organiza
tion. She is a junior English 
Minor in M. M. C. C. She is 
well known on the campus here, 
and last year was a member of 
Cwens, national Sophomore, wom
ens honorary. Joseph Levine, a 
(Continued on Page Four)
MENS JUNIOR PROM PRELIMINARY 
TICKET SALE CONTINUES TILL JAN.I7; 
FINAL TICKET SALE, JAN. 2D - FEB. 7
Dr. Goldenson to Speak 
at Chapel Service Today
Dr. Samuel H. Goldenson, 
Rabbi of the Rodef Shalom Con
gregation, will be the speaker at 
the chapel services today at 12:30 
in the Little Theater.
Dr. Goldenson is one of the 
outstanding Hebrew Rabbis. He 
is a member of the reformed 
branch and is well known for 
his originality of thought and 
presentation. He invariably com
mands the attention of his audi
ence, and always has something 
worth-while to say. His subject 
has not been announced, but it 
is sure to appeal to all college 
men and women.
In addition to Dr. Goldenson, 
the Mens Glee Club will be in
cluded on the program. The 
Glee Club will sing Bachs com
position, "Now Let Every 
Tongue Adore Thee. This is 
their first appearance on the 
campus during the present school 
year.
Modern Typography
Exhibits Originality
Among the evidences of return
ing typographical sanity may be 
mentioned the work of the better 
trade schools that teach printing. 
Recent .inspection of a traveling 
exhibit from Carnegie Institute, 
Pittsburgh, shows an amazing de
velopment of proficiency and 
taste.on the part of the students.
We like these specimens because 
they show a good deal of genuine 
originality combined with a rea
sonable respect for , typographical 
tradition. At least, the student 
printers have been taught that 
simple discourse is most effectively 
set ,'for.th in straight-away use of 
selected Roman type faces.
For many years, typography was 
largely ruled by precedent. The 
most popular type faces were rede
signed from faces popular in the 
eighteenth century, or earlier. The 
typographical modes were judged 
by their conformity to the best 
(Continued on page 2)
Womens Glee Club Will
Give Concert January 16
The Womens Glee Club of Mar
garet Morrison and Art School will 
hold a concert on Thursday even
ing, January 16, at 8 o'clock. The 
concert will be given in the audi
torium of the Homestead Masonic 
Temple, and a varied program- has 
been arranged, including selections 
from Brahms Lullaby and 
Gypsy Minstrel. Besides the 
singing by the entire group, the 
string quartet, made up of mem
bers of the Glee Club, will give 
several selections. Rose Aiello will 
play a few violin solos, and Mary 
Farbaugh, the manager of the Gl.ce 
Club, will give several readings as 
a change from the regular musical 
program.
The Glee Club gave a concert 
last Thursday, January 9, to the 
veterans at the Marine Hospital on 
Fortieth street. Coming concerts 
will include a home concert, to be 
given in conjunction with the 
Mens Glee Club. Rehearsals for 
(Continued on Page Four)
Wherein Our Traffic Problem 
Is Considered Quite Seriously
Once upon a time there was an 
enterprising business man who 
bought a lot on Techs campus, and 
speedily transformed it into a park
ing lot, charging 50 cents an hour. 
Fable has it that his business soon 
assumed such alarming propor
tions that lie bought and trans
formed Cathedral Mansions into 
a modern parking garage. And 
thereby hangs a tale for the cre
dulous, told in the manner of the 
estimable C. C. Thistledown, which, 
though harmless, set us to musing 
on Carnegies actual traffic situa
tion, which is fast approaching the 
millcnium.
At this time we are not taking 
a census of the number of students 
who walk, trolley, or thumb their 
way to school each morning, but 
it is safe to assume that approxi
mately one-third of them travel 
the concrete trail to school each 
morning. So far, so good, but 
where to park when they arrive on
the campus? After all, there is 
only so much available space, and 
despite1 the ingenuity evidenced by 
their pilots, only a certain num
ber of buggies can be wedged 
against the curbstone per foot. 
True, the driver of a new Unnnpahumph, with its varnished exterior 
and shiny red wheels may feel that 
by virtue of its newness and 
costliness, it deserves the heaven
sent inch or two more than its 
neighbor, the lowly "tuberculosis 
wagon, but the illnsioned one is 
soon reconciled to the dent in his 
day dreams by the various dents 
and scratches in his car. Tt has 
become somewhat of a game to 
see which driver can get in the 
coveted spot firstindeed, this lit
tle game is the only thing that 
enables so many to be on time 
morning after morning for their 
8:30 class. For alarm clocks, 
though dependable and persistent 
(Continued on Page Four)
Nationally Famous Out Of 
Town Orchestra 
To Play
Budget Sanctioned
All Students Eligible To 
Attend Mens junior 
Prom
The preliminary tickct sale of 
Junior Prom tickcts is to continue 
until Friday, January 17. The price 
of the preliminary tickct is $4. The 
sale of the second and final tickct 
will begin January 20 and continue 
until the date if the Prom. The 
final ticket costs $5 making the total 
tax for the dance $9. Ticket sellers 
arc in the halls of the mens col
leges and in the Y office during 
the lunch hours every school da}r.
The Junior Proin Committee, headcd by Jack Boyle, has made arrange
ments which promise to make this 
years an outstanding Junior Prom. 
Through careful budgeting the Com
mittee is able to pay considerable 
n.ore for an orchestra than has been 
done in the past r.nd yet make a sub
stantial reduction on the budget as 
a whole. The orchestra, contrary to 
former practice, is being hired 
through the Student Council. The 
Council had ruled that $250 be the 
maximum to be paid for an orchestra 
for any school dances, but convinced 
that by the careful planning and 
budgeting of the Committee that a 
success was insured, it allowed the 
Committee to greatly cxcccd the limit 
on the orchestra budget. The Com
mittee has been able to obtain cxc^ptio:: .lly.good prices on other items 
of th.c prom thereby reducing the 
remainder of the budget below what 
it has been in past years.
The Mens Junior Prom should bo 
well supported by the student body 
because with the Women's Junior 
Prom it stands as by far the most 
outstanding of the remaining of Car
negies fast disappearing traditions. 
If the Junior Proms arc allowed to 
fail ,and pass out of existancc, the 
remaining traditions in themselves 
would hardly he worthy of the name 
of' Carnegie Traditions. In secur
ing a famous out of town orchestra 
f r the dance the Connniftce feels 
that the Prom will he particularly at
tractive and may help to renew in
terest in traditions. In some colleges 
attendance at the Mens Junior Proms 
is restricted to members of the Junior 
Class but this Prom is a school in
stitution and members of all the 
classes arc welcome.
Music Department 
Plans Attractive 
January Calendar
The musical calendar for Janu
ary includes a concert on Friday 
evening, January 17, by Hallic 
Stiles, leading sophomore, Paris 
Opera comique, and Hans Kindler, 
cellist, sponsored by the Art So
ciety of Pittsburgh in the Carnegie 
Music Hall; a symphony concert 
on January 20 by the Chicago 
Orchestra, conducted by Frederick 
Stock, sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Orchestra Association in the Syria 
Mosque; the opera, Siegfried, on 
January 22, and Goetterdaemmerung on January 23, at the Syria 
Mosque, sponsored by MayBcegle; 
this Tuesday evening, January 14, 
Heifetz, world famous violinist, 
will be at the Syria Mosque, spon
sored by May Beegle.
On Sunday evening, January 26, 
the Music Department will give an 
unusual program in the Little 
Theater, consisting of a group of 
numbers by the woodwind ensem
ble under the direction of Mr. 
Caputo, six seventeenth century 
madrigals conducted by, Miss KenIey, a selection by the Iiadyn 
String Quartet, and a piano solo 
by Julian Bramson, graduate of29.
At the annual congregational din
ner and meeting of the Unitarian 
Church on January 8, 1930, a song 
recital was presented by Alberta 
Irvine, soprano; Margaret Husband, 
mezzo-soprano; Paul Brantigam. 
baritone; Matthew Frey at the 
piano. Mr. Brantigam gave Mo
zarts Within This Hallowed 
Dwelling from The Magic Flute, 
dHardclots, I Know a Lovely 
Garden; Miss Husband sang Wolfs 
Vcrborgcnhcit, Rhcnc-Batons II 
Plcnt des Pctalcs dc Fleurs, Liuzzis Di Nottc; Miss Irvine, Deems 
Taylors May Day Carol; Martin 
Shaws Hcfflc Cuckoo Fair, Olmsteads Thy Sweet Singing, Miss 
Irvine and Mr. Brantigam, Messagcrs The Swing Song.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CAKNEGTE TARTANTUESDAY. JANUARY U, 1530
Dependable
For College parties and for Class and Fraternity affairs our service i* dependable and reasonably priced.
We are glad to furnish the Pastries. Ice Creams, Candies, etc.. for affairs that dont require catering.
We Rent Equipment 
Tables, and chairs with covers, also linens, china, silver and glassware rented in anv quantity. 
Try our noon and eventng lunches when in E. Liberty
Store Hours:8 A. M. to 11:30 P. M.
Eric Clan 
At a recent meeting oi the Car
negie Clan ^of Eric the following 
officers were elected: Paul Schmidt, 
president, 1048 West Sixth street; 
Robert C. Warren, vice president, 
2618 Wallace street; W. A. Spangenbcrg, secretary-treasurer, 337 West 
Eleventh street.
Dr. Baker has been invited, as 
honor guest, to attend the next 
meeting of the Erie Clan, which 
will be held during the fourth 
week in January.
Alumni Personnel
EVERYBODY IS INVITED TO THEMENS JUNIOR PROM SS
TARTAN SQUAD
(Continued from Page One) 
by Hyatt and Zcyfuss tied the count, 
an I in the last minutes of play 
Arture and Cohen gave the Panthers 
a six point lead which was main
tained the rest of the game.
George Nease was the main cog in 
the Tech offense and the diminutive 
Jimmy Leonard showed, to the satis
faction of those present, that size is 
n; important factor in this game, at 
least. With two big years ahead of 
him, Jimmy ought to develop into one 
of the flashiest forwards in this 
section. During the course of the 
game, it was -'^arly proven that 
basket ball at Carnegie is on the up
ward gri.de, and if Coach Hogan 
continues his brilliant work, the Tar
tan team will soon take its place 
among the ranking basket ball teams 
of the East.
The line-up for the game was as 
follows:
Pitt24 Carnegie18
Wrobleski ____F Nease
S. lvowalis____F________ Webster
Brown __--.-C................. Merten
M. Cohen ..____.G....- Schumacher
Lawry ________C..-------------- High
Field goals: CarnegieNease 3,
Webster, Fox', Leonard. PittS. 
Kowalis 2, Lawry, Hyatt 3, L. Cohen, 
Arture, Zeyiuss.
Substitutions: CarneRieFox for
Merten, Leonard for Webster, Web
ster for Leonard, Merten for Fox, 
Eyth for Schumacher.
RefereeBolster.
UmpireWeitzel.
Times of Halves, 20 minutes.
Penn otate beat Carnegie Tcch to
the finish in a fast game at State 
College Saturday night," winding up 
on the long end of a 27 to 21 score, 
although the Tartans threatened until 
the very last.
Although State led all the way 
except for a brief period early in 
the game when the score stood a 
4-all, they were never more than 
six points ahead. Scoring alternated 
for mos* of the way with the Skibos 
trailing sometimes only by a point 
and State managing to stick ahead.
Nease, visiting forward, was high 
scorer with four field goals and a 
pair o fouls. Weber made four 
goals to lead the Lion scoring.
Webster shared honors with Nease 
on. the attack and fed the ball clever
ly to the latter.
High and Schumahcr played good 
defensive basketball but both went 
out on personal fouls. Lineup:
Penn State27 Carnegie Tcch21
Leyda ...............................F.--Wcbst.-r
Fry....___U/____________ Nease
Brand _________C___________ Fox
Saltzman ---------------------G__________ Schumahcr
Weber ________G________T_ High
Field goalsWeber 4, Nease 4, 
Fry 2, Brand 2, Webster 2, Leyda, 
Merten, Schumahcr. Foul goals 
Leyda 2, Davis 2, Fry 2, Brand 2, 
Nease 2, Merten 2, Saltzman, High.
Substitutions: Penn StateDavis 
for Leyda, Lee for Weber. Carnegie 
Tech Merten for Fox, Leonard for 
Webster, Eyth for High, Traa for
Schumahcr.
Referce--Dayhoff.
UmpireGeiscl.
Wisconsin is the only land grant 
college in the United States that 
does not require two years of 
military training for graduation.
IT SEEMS AS IF WE HAVE an apology to make to 
those of you who take time to read this little column. We are 
truly sorry that things nlipped up last week and that you didnt 
.get to see the promised basketball player at the head of these 
writings. Look again, though - - - and we really do have a 
good cxcusc.* * * *
FIRST OF ALL COMES BASKETBALL. We were sit
ting on the very edge of ovir scat for a while last Wednesday 
night and holding our breath, so to speak. The way those boys 
went out and held those highly-touted Panthers was wonderful 
to see. The work of Captain Nease and Jimmy Leonard was 
outstanding and we thoroughly enjoyed seeing little Jim fool 
those big Panthers, especially Charlie Hyatt. Charlie played 
a wonderful game, however, and although lie did not boost his 
scoring record to any great extent, lie pulled the Pitt team 
along many a time with his steadying influence 011 the rest of 
the men. To Captain Charlie goes the credit for Pitts victory.
Saturdays game with State didnt turn out so well, cither, 
hut the season is still young. There are still fourteen games 
left on the schedule and that leaves lots of opportunity for 
victories. We hope that the First one will come at the ex
pense of the Presidents of W. & J. tomorrow night. Wins
over Michigan State on Friday and Grove City on Saturday
wouldnt be so hard to swallow, cither. Heres hoping.* * * *
NOW WELL ASK a little favor in the name of Graduate 
Manager Ovcrcnd and Coach Hogan. They request that the 
spectators keep their Old Camchcstcrstrikes (we got that out 
of a funny paper a couple of months back) under cover until 
after the game. The smoke is very annoying to the players and 
interferes seriously with their play. So smoke before and after, 
but not during the game.* * * *
And we just couldnt help snickering when that fair Pitt 
rooter who sat behind us remarked that "That, fat little fellow 
ought to be playing football instead of basketball. If you 
havent already guessed it, the Faf little fellow was none 
other than Halfback Dutch Eyth, who docs play a little foot
ball. At least 011c person out 011 the Coast Hasnt forgotten 
that fact, if California postmarks arc anything to judge by.* * * *
THOSE OF YOU who missed the Plebe-Pitt Freshman
game missed a real tussle. Those last four minutes of play 
were sufficiently exciting to cause even the most sedate per
son to squirm in his seat. It was a heart-breaking loss for the 
Plebes, but there arc more games to come. Jimmy Fergus, the 
red-haired Carnegie guard, looked good and was, undoubtedly, 
the best player on the floor. May he click against the W. & J. 
Frosh 011 Wednesday.>t * * *
THE RIFLE SEASON opened last week with .1 prone,
kneeling, sitting and standing match against four schools, the 
Connecticut Aggies, Maine, Delaware and West Virginia. The 
results are not known as yet, but the score, 1831 points out of a 
possible 2,000, is good.
Carnegie is favored in that it has an excellent rifle team. 
'Last year the Varsity won every match and carried off the tro
phy signifying first place in their league. In recognition of 
1 heir work, the men were awarded major letters, although rifle 
is classified a a minor sport.
Besides the Varsity, the school boasts of a very excellent 
R. O. T. C. Engineers team. The "Army has won the cham
pionship of the Third Corps Area for the past two seasons 
and if they turn the trick this year, another piece of silverware 
will be placed,' permanently, in the trophy room.* * * *
COMES WORD that the Intra-Mural basketball schedules 
are drawn up and that the season starts officially 011 February 
17. Twenty-five teams, fraternity and dormitory, will fight 
things out in three leagues. The gameu are made interesting 
by the intense rivalry existing between tho teams and are well 
worth watching.? * * *
WE .HAVE BEEN TOLD, very forcbily, that we have no 
knowledge of athletics and should stop writing. That's all right 
with us - - - we just pass on these few paragraphs for what 
they arc worth. If our writings displease certain people to the 
extent which has been demonstrated, we refer them, politely, 
Ho the column across the page.
And thanks for reading to the cud, Mr. X.
Plebes Defeated By Pit m Last 
Minute of Play
IIts so easy
T G-JET THE 
HABIT..
 . . the Lee Morse habit. She insinuates her way so pleasantly into 
a place among the few things you like very much.
So youll be glad to learn that her newest recordColumbia, of 
coursehas been released, and that it holds the pep, appeal and fine 
melody you always expect from this charming croonstress
Hear it today, and these running-matcs, too . . .
Record No. 2063-D, 10-inch, 75c 
C HAPPEL TAOO DYMN SGUAUB (A Little Kiss \At Night) (from Motion Picture The I Vocals Vagabond Lover) I _
I HSRL You, 1LEALRL L2 I HSRL :S3 (The (  e an Hcr Dream of My Heart) (from Motion Picture 1 Grass BoysThe Vagabond Lover") /
Record No. 2062-D, 10-incft, 75c
Have a Little Faith in Me (from 1 rox Trots Motion Picture Spring la Here) /
0GKAUB .SG PNL 0YGSEAULO (from f Guy Lombardo and His Motion Picture Spring Is Here) j Royal Canadians
Record No. 2064-D, KMrtcft, 75c 
(With You) Where you Are \ Fox Trots 
Just Think of Me Sometime f Will Oiborac and His Orchestra
*' Magie
Columbia ^iiSss' RccordsVhra - tonal Recording-The Records without Scratch
THE TIMKEN ROLLER BEARING CO. 
CANTON, OHIO
TIMKEN
Tap&*e ROllSt WErAWLtmsm
The Carnegie Tech Plcbcs lost their 
opener last Wednesday evening when 
the Pitt Freshmen came from' behind 
in the final seconds of play to cap
ture the long end of a 25-24 score. 
The preliminary was hard fought 
throughout and furnished plenty of 
thrills for the early comers.
Pitt war. first to scorc, getting away 
to a two-point lead early in the 
game when both Fouls found the net. 
The Plebes came back strong and 
scored two field goals and a brace 
of fouls to gain a 6-2 advantage. 
At the end of Ye first quarter the 
score vfas noted at eight all, Through
out the remainder of the first half 
the lead scc-sawcd back and forth 
vith neither team holding more than 
a lone point margin at any time. 
The half ended with the Plcbcs hold
ing the upper hand l'S-14.
At the start of the half both 
teams came back with a rush but 
the Plaid slowly pulled away from 
the Panther Yearlings until, at the 
end of the third 'quarter, the Plebes 
were leading 21-16. They clung to 
this lead until the middle of the 
final quarter. With but five minutes 
to play victory seemed a certainty, 
but suddenly the Blue and Gold be
gan to click and with but two min
utes to play they went into the lead 
23-22. Then Stcntz sank one for the 
Plebes, but Pitt was not to be de
nied, and, a sccond later Leech sunk 
one from the midst ox. a scrimmage 
under the Plebc basket, making the 
final scorc 25-24.
Lccch, Pitt liter, was leading 
scorer with five baskets, while Dc 
Bruyn and Stcntz shared second 
honors with four cach. The out
standing player on the floor, however, 
was Jimmy Fergus, whose exceptional 
guarding kept .he Plcbcs in the 
game at all stages. His, ability to 
dribble and pass with the best of 
them was dearly exhibited, and big 
things arc expccted of him in the 
coming games. ,
The Plcbcs journey to Little Wash
ington tomorrow where they will 
meet the Wash-Jcff Frosh in a pre
liminary. They will be seen on the 
home court both Friday and Satur
day when they play preliminaries to 
the varstiy . games with Michigan 
State and Grove City.
Line-up;
Pitt25 Carnegie24
Cross .......F.._______ Smith
Rodgers -----------F........,.... De Bruyn
Lccch--------------C---------------- Stcntz
Cutri----------G.-------------------------*--..... Fergus
Smith --------------G----------------- Macy
Substitutes: PittRishney, Lewis, 
Albert. CarnegieWalcnta and Siegal.
Field goalsSmith, Cross, Rodgers, 
Leech 5, DcBruyn 4, Stcntz 4.
Fouls: Pitt9 out of 13. Tcch8 out of 14.
Score by periods:
Pitt ---------------------------- 14 1125
Carnegie ......................... 15 924
RefereeWcit/.el. UmpireBolster. 
10 minute quarters.
VIENNA
(Continued from Page One) 
them, but wi)l have a special appeal 
(o architects. Of the hundreds of 
apartment houses, municipal theaters 
and baths which the city itself has 
constructed, many are executed  in 
m dernistic designs.
In bringing Dr. Van Essen to the 
Campus, the Social Problems Club is 
e- -ilmning its policy of presenting to 
Carnegie students sidelights on events 
in the prcscnt-day world. The club 
was organized at the beginning of 
the semester. It holds meetings 
which are always open to all students.
NEWMAN CLUB
(Continued from Page One) ington. . Dr. Sheens, although still 
in his thirties, is ranked as one 
of the ablest thinkers of the day.
CAPTAIN
GEORGE NEASE
Sigmas will take on the Lambda Chi team.
The Sigma Nus and the -Phi
Kappas will open the Federal 
league campaign at 7:30 Tuesday, 
February 18. Tlic same night at 
8:30, Sigma Phi , Epsilon will play 
Welch Hall, Thursday -night, 
February 20, Thcta Xi will play
Nu Delta Alpha, and at 8:30 Pi 
Kappa Alpha will tackle Delta Tau Delta.
In the National League, Boss 
Hall will open with Phi Kappa 
Psi on February 20. At 8:30 the 
same evening, Delta Mu will play
Alpha Sigma Phi. On February
(Continued on Page Four)
TYPEWRITERS
Clan News
Intra-mural Cagers 
I o Open Season In 
Gymnasium Feb. 17
A Course in
Handling Money
The formation of a banking connection early in life is an indispensable part of your education.The experience in handling money, the friendly advice of specialists trained to meet every type of financial problem, will enable you to make the most of your allowance 
now, and will eventually help \ to success in whatever line you may follow'.
Varsity Riflemen 
Ooeu Season % 
Making 1831 %re
Carnegie's varsity rifiers opened 
their season last week with a four 
position match to be entered 
against Connecticut Agricultural 
College, University, of Maine, Uni
versity of Delaware, and the Uni
versity of West Virginia. The' t.otal score of 1831 will be sent to 
the competing schools for compar
ison, the highest talking first place.
The scorc is within a few points 
of that of the first match last 
year. And considering that three 
of the shooters , arc newomcrs 
from the plebc ranks, much credit 
is due them for the fine showing.
Two matches remain to be shot 
this semester. The week of Janu
ary 18, the team will shoot Mas
sachusetts Institute of Technology 
and the University of Nevada, and 
the week of January 25, against 
Rose Polytechnic Institute, Missis
sippi A. & M. College, Cornell, 
and the Worchestcr Polytechnic Institute.
The National Rifle Association 
schedule is not yet complete. As 
a result, the Tartan schedule can
not b& filled out definitely. How
ever, it is understood that the first 
N. . R. A. match will be shot in 
February. The schedule will end April 5.
. P S K S Tl.Kasehagcn 97 97 92 85371
Gcntcr 100 96 95 79370
Scott  98 95 91 82366
Bcckert 98 94 85 85362
Hopkins 99 96 88 79362
1831
All Makes Sold and 
Rented
Special Rates to Students
Dependa
The Personal Writing Machino
W. A. A. MEETING
' At the meeting last Monday night the W. A. A. Board added a very important law to its constitution. The new law concerns the election of managers of sports. To the present year all managers have been' elected by the Board upon recommendation of a Board member. The new system, which will go into effect this year, provides for a greater participation of players in a particular sport in the selection of their manager. Now the managers will be nominated by the -women players at the last practice of every sport. The three nominees with the highest number of votes will be. voted upon by the Board, who may, if it considers it necessary, add its own nominee.This new method is designed to give each player a greater interest 'in the rport. Also, by an active part in selecting her own manager, Carnegie women are brought into closer contact with the W. A. A. Board which the officers of the athletic association consider desirable 
.and necessary;There were discussions about a snow hike and an overnight hike. A committee was appointed to form plans for the overnight hike. As soon as the plans have become definite there will be a notice in this column and posters on the main bulletin boards announcing the event.
RIFLE
The first intercollegiate rifle match for the^ womens team is to be fired the week ending January 26 with the University of Missouri and Massachusetts Agricultural College. All women who are going out for rifle were expected to shoot a match last week, and are expected to shoot a match this week. If it was impossible .for any one to shoot last week, two matches may be shot this week. These two matches will determine who shall place in the first ten for the intercollegiate match.After the match of the week ending January 26, there will be no more intercollegiate matches until the week ending February 22, because of mid-year examinations. The range, however, will be open for practices as usual during that time unless further notice is given to 
the contrary.N. R. A. matches begin the week ending February 8. One stage, consisting of two matches, will be fired each week for three -weeks; the last stage will be fired the week ending February 22. All N. R. A. targets must be fired and handed in the w'eek ending February 22. The ten girls who are to shoot in these matches will - have their namesposted on the bulletin board in Margaret Morrison College and at the
Range..Everybody, beginners too, should shoot a marked target as was done in the match with the plcbcs in November. Because, severalmembers of last year's rifle team have graduated, there will be aflexcellent opportunity for several beginners to make the team. If any of the women out for rifle desire further information, they should leave 
a note for Floy Sample.
SWIMMING
SwimiMng practices continue under the direction of Suzanne Knorr on Tuesdays at 11:30 and Thursday at 12:30. The swimming tournament will probably begin in the middle of February and continue until 
the first of March.There is a noticeable improvement in the swimming of the team since the early part of the season. Suzanne would like to have more women at practices, especially those that are good divers. If you are a good diver, you arc wanted, for the swimming squad needs you. There is still time to make the team, if you report at onc<!.
ounding 
a new production 
note for JQ3Q
At a meeting last Tuesday, final 
arrangements were made for the 
approaching Intra-mural basketball 
campaign. Lots wrcre drawn to 
determine the leagues in which the 
different Fraternities should ap
pear, and schedules were drawn up 
for the three different leagues. The 
first games will be played Monday. 
February 17.
This year there arc twenty-five 
teams that will fight with cach oth
er for basketball honors. There 
arc eight teams in the National 
and Federal leagues, and nine in 
the American. The teams in the 
National League arc: Phi Kappa 
Psi, Boss Hall, Alpha Sigma Phi. 
Delta Mu, Beta Thcta Pi, Phi Sig
ma Kappa, Delta Ppsilon, Tau 
Delta Phi. In the Federal League 
we-find the following teams: Phi 
Kappa, Sigma Nu, Sigma Phi Epsilon, 
Welch Hall, Thcta Xi, Nu Delta 
Alpha, Delta Tau Delta, Pi Kappa 
Alpha. The nine teams in the 
American league arc: A. T. O.,
Beta Sigma Rho, Kappa Sigma. 
Lambda Chi Alpha, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, Henderson Hall, Scobel 
Hall, Delta Phi Delta and McGill 
Hall. |
The American league opens its 
campaign Monday night, February 
17, at which time Henderson Hall 
and the S. A. E.s meet. On Feb
ruary 18, the Beta Sigma Rhos 
and the A. T. O.s have their 
opening conflict. The same night 
finds the boys from Scobel Hall 
battling those from Delta Phi 
Delta. On February 20, the Kappa
Agency Underwood, 
Eoyal-Remington and 
Corona Portables
Standard Typewriter Co,
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Phone Atlantic 0342
W. P. Albrecht
W. P. Albrecht, Carnegie Tech, 
class of 1928, has recently com
pleted the courses of the Com
mercial Engineering School of the 
Wcstinghousc Electric and Manu
facturing Company. Mr. Albrecht 
is now engaged in the Technical 
Press Section of the Advertising 
Department.
Mr. Albrecht was very prominent 
in Campus activities. During his 
four years at Carnegie Tech, lie 
sang in the Glee Club, played in 
Kiltie band and was active on the 
Puppet staff. Pic was a member 
of the Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity.
Mortar Board Will Hold
Annual Benefit Bridge
Saturday, January 18, the Mortar 
Board National Women's Senior 
Honorary Society will hold its an
nual benefit bridge in Forbes Hall 
at 2:30 oclock. Katherine McMil
lan, who is general chairman of 
the occasion, together with the 
other members of the society* is 
working diligently to make the 
party succcssful. Isobcl Sheppard 
is in charge of the prizes, which 
are expected to be quite unique. 
Invitations have been sent to the 
Alumnae, who will doubtless wish 
to return to meet old friends. 
Tickets may be secured from any 
member of the Mortar Board. 
Plomc-madc candy will be for sale 
during the afternoon at reasonable 
prices. The proceeds from this 
benefit bridge will be used tomcet 
the current expenses- of the or
ganization.
The new year will put operating and produc
tion costs on a new low level in many plants 
with Timken-equipped machinery.
For industry has found the one bearing that 
does all things well... TIMKEN ... with its 
exclusive, wear-defying, cost-cutting com
bination of Timken tapered construction, 
Timken POSITIVELY ALIGNED ROLLS and 
Timken steel.
And in future year?, when the responsibility 
for continued progress rests on the shoulders 
of the student engineers of today, Timken 
Bearing Equipped" will still be one of the 
most potent weapons with which to fight 
waste and inefficiency.
A systematic study of Timken possibilities 
in all types of machinery will well repay the 
student engineer.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREETUESDAY, JANUARY 14, 1930
ZTbe Carnegie HMaib
RETURNS FOR NIGHT 
STUDENT COUNCIL DANCES 
TO BE MADE PROMPTLY
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS
Registration For Now 
Courses in Aviation 
Now Open
New Carnegie Song 
Book To Go On 
Sale Soon
marked intcrrschool mail will not 
require postage.NIQHT STUDENTS 
CONTRIBUTION TO 
ENDOWMENT FUND
This is the second year that the 
Puppet, the humorous magazine of 
Carnegie, has been sold on the 
campus by night students. '
At the beginning of last year, 
Mr. E. E. McDonald was appointed 
Night Circulation Manager by the 
Puppet Staff and he proceeded to 
organize a sales force among the 
Night Students. This staff has 
functioned very well and sales 
among the night students have been 
on the increase with cach subse
quent issue of this publication.
It is the du^y ol cach and every 
one of the night students to sup
port our College publications and 
show our appreciation to those fel
lows who are giving their time to 
help the sale of this magazine.
Any night student is eligible to 
sell the Puppet. If you so desire, 
get in touch with Mr. McDonald 
at the Council room or drop him 
a line to Box 137 Carnegie Tech 
post office. An insignia is awarded 
by the Puppet for meritorious 
work.
All night students who have 
been selling tickets for the Night 
Student Council danccs are re
quested, to make their returns as 
soon as possible. This procedure 
will simplify matters considerably 
tor the treasurer in accounting for 
all tickets.
Your communication deposited in 
the school oost-officc in the box
UNIVERSITY
RESTAURANT
It has been announced that the 
new official Carnegie song book 
will soon be ready for sale to all 
students and alumni of Carnegie. 
This, is tlie first revision of the 
song book to be offered in the past 
six years and has been made very 
modern in every respect.
The new book will be covered 
with a binding of one solid color, 
possibly blue, having an impression 
of the Carnegie seal in gold on the 
front cover. Besides containing 
all the latest Carnegie songs the 
new volume contains many of the 
well known and favorite songs of 
other colleges. This fact alone 
will make the book quite popular 
among the night students, for 
many of us have friends and rela
tives who attended other schools, 
and the new edition will be a 
source of entertainment on various 
occasions.
Together with many other fea
tures, there arc several beautiful 
full page cuts of campus views 
and buildings that will make the 
book a splendid addition to every 
students library.
The price of the new song book 
has been set at $1 and additional 
information as to the time and 
place of sale will be made in the 
Plaid when the book is ready for 
distribution.
Registration for the pew course 
offered by the Aviation school is 
going right along, having started 
last week. The course for the 
ground instruction  of pilots is 
quite popular and indications are 
that there will bt a large class.
At the present this course is be
ing offered only at night with the 
posibility that, if conditions warrent, it will be extended to the day 
curriculum next year.- Classes be
gan on Monday ovemng, January 
6 and will continue throughout the 
balance of the school year.
The classes are divided into 
several groups, each with a differ
ent objective. In the first group, 
courses for a private pilot, there 
will be a total of 35 hours of in
struction with a tution fee of $18. 
The second group for aspirants for 
limited commercial licenses will 
cover a total ot 35 hours instruc
tion at a tuition fee of $36. In the 
third group, ground courses for 
those seeking . transport license, 
the highest rating of a pilot by 
the Department of Commerce, will 
consume 105 hours of instruction 
and the tuition fee will be $54.
Among the instructors arc sever
al well known pilots including Bob 
Hancock, Jim Wagner and Joe 
Dawson. Dawson not so long ago, 
did a lot of ball pitching while a 
member of Barney Dryfuss Pi
rates. The equipment at present 
includes four complete planes, two 
Liberty motors, two Ilisso motors, 
three OX-5s and a Warner Scarab
Newly Equipped. Up-to-date cooking 
4605 Forbes Street, Near Craig
CLEARANCE SALE 
Pajamas. at.... $1.35 $7&$8.50 Felt Hats at $5.65 
Pajamas at....$2.35 $5 Felt Hats at.....$2.85
All Fancy Neckwear and Fancy Hose 
Greatly Reduced
HECK & GEORGE
'Not Everything, but Everything of the Best
3945 Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
The Employment Bureau an
nounces that all students who 
worked 'in Pittsburgh during the 
Christmas vacation should report 
their earnings to the Bureau im
mediately, so that the records may 
be made up.Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
The Oakland Bank
and studi', for as long as there is 
Night School, there will be a large 
number of autos about the camphs. 
Lets see if the students and the 
Administration cant co-operate in 
making our school a more pleas
ant placc to go for our educa
tion as regards the parking facili
ties and their fair uses.
W. H. P.
A Harvard astronomer has meas
ured an electron less than a mil
lionth of an inch in size.
Capital $300,000.00 Surplus $500,000.00 Deposits Over $6,000,000.00
OFFICERSC. B. Aylesworth.R. I. Miller_____O. C. Young------F. W Cotton____C. W. Eh ni______Adam Roacoe __
.President-Vice President--------TreasurerAsst. Treasurer---------Secretary-Asst. Secretary
DIRECTORSC. B. Aylesworth James B. Clark Tohn Dimling Barney Dreyfusa T. Rogers Flannery
L. H. Gethoefer C. H. Kerr T. O. Miller R T. Miller John G, Pew
THIS CLUB CAN BE SECURED FOR
Dances . . . Banquets
Other Social Affairs
Please make your arrangements early 
with the Manager
TECH STUDENTS 
For the Coming- Junior Prom 
R-E-N-T
A SUPREME STYLE TUXEDO SUIT AND 
ACCESSORIES FROM US 
IL SIZES -.- PERFECT FIT
A B. Sheet*
Member Federal Reserve System
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Night Phone
ATLANTIC 9595 LAFAYETTE 4791-R
Valley 1170-TELEPHONES-Franklin 0204
College JewelrySeal StationeryPennantsMeasuring the progress 
f 75 years
From small shops to vast factories , . . 
from blacksmiths forge to six-ton elcctric 
furnaccs . . . from Joulc3 theory of heat 
to superheat. . . from guesswork to sci
ence . . . from waste to economythese 
hint the revolution in industry sincc i8jj. 
The growth of Crane Co. through these 
years is a significant reflection of the 
growth of all industry. From a one-man 
shop founded three-quarters of a century 
ago, it has grown to a world organization, 
meeting in its own factories the power and 
production problems that have faced other 
manufacturers. Supplying the piping mate
rials that have released power, effected 
economies, and. increased production 
everywhere, it has of necessity met and 
aolved piping problems as they have 
arisen in all industries.
Now in its 75th anniversary year,it serves 
all industries with the materials developed, 
the knowledge and experience gained. To 
engineering students, its customers of the 
future, it offers a valuable reference book 
and research manual on metal reactions 
under high pressure and superheat: 
"Pioneering in Science." Write for it.
C. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students Supplies
Two Sunday Night Meetings for 
Yaisr Schedule
Oxford Club, 6:30 P. M., Oakland M. E. Church
January 19. Cy Hungerford, noted cartoonist, will be present to address the group, and will furnish entertainment by cartooning.
January 26. Rabbi Samuel Goldenson will give a book review of "All Quiet on the Western Front.
Other Speakers and Features will be announced later.
THE HOnSi AWAITS WITHOUT HIKED LMB BUZZ LEK UKT
Open til 2 A. M. FRIDAY and SATURDAY  j
If you ask me, replied Aletia coldly, "you seem to have 
brought the hoarse in with you. The hoarseness of your 
voice repels me, sir! If you wish me to go buggy-riding 
with you, youd better change toOLDGOLDS.
The_ atmosphere of refinement....the tempting dishes....the pol- ished service....the music....all have done their part to make Roths Grill become the mecca for college 
students.
AFTER THE SHOW ... OR AFTER THE GAME . . . JOIN THE CROWD AT
When my heart leaves me, It will go to the man who 
smokes this queen-leaf cigarette. Theres not a throatscratch in a trillion.CRAHK CO., GENERAL 0rPICeS:833 3. MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 
HEW YORK OFFICE: 23 WEST 44.C RAHKKAO
Broncha and Salti Ojjtcti in Ont Hundred and Ninety CttiuROTH'S GRILLFASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY...NOTA COUGH IN A CARIOADEnright Theater BuildingEaet Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE POT IKTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. JANUARY , lojfl
A DreamerArent We All?
KOSTELLOW DISPLAYSMODERN TYPOGRAPHY
From the Fence(Continued from Page One) 
book work of a ccntury or more
ago.
This, of course, was fundamen
tally opposite to the modernistic 
ideawhich is that there are no 
rules or precedents of any account 
and that the one criterion of ex
cellence is to be different.
The Carnegie spcimens exhibit 
considerable freedom in display, or
namentation, and use of color, but 
there is no, such frantic affectation 
of originality as leads, nowadays, 
to the use of fundamentally un
suitable types for straight  dis
course. Development is along the 
line of a happy medium.
Robert F. Lane, night instructor 
in Linotype and Intertype Com
position in the Department of 
Printing, has resigned his position 
and returned to the Pacific Coast 
to continue his graduate studies in 
the University of Washington. Mr. 
Lane was one of the regular day 
instructors in Machine Composi
tion during the year 1928-29, and 
while on the campus he wrote 
several articles which were pub
lished in journals of education and 
printing.
Professor Gustafson, head of the 
Department of Printing, is to be 
the ' speaker at the annual Frank
lin Day dinner, whicj} is to be 
held in the Hotel Schcnlcy, 
Wednesday, January 15. Profes
sor Gustafson will address the 
meeting on the subject, "The 
Amazing Benjamin Franklin.
Mr. Walter. J. Berg, of the Crcscent . Printing Company, president 
of the Franklin. Typothctae of Cin
cinnati, will address the members 
of the department on Thursday, 
January 16, at 3:30 p. m. Mr. Berg 
is one of the most prominent 
printers of the state of Ohio 
and a leader in the national or
ganization of master printers. 
He is an unusually interesting 
and vigorous platform speaker, 
and will address the meeting on 
the subject of .Printing Funda
mentals.
(Continued from page 1) 
all taking up their stand before the 
poor inebriated gentleman with his 
single insignificant ke}\
Another illustration that catches 
ones fancy is an etching by John 
Austen of Hamlet, and poor Yoricks skull. True,'Hamlet doesnt 
resemble John Barryniorc, but one 
manages to endure that for the 
sake of Yorick, who looks uncom
monly fine. What is particularly 
striking about this design is the 
background, which is a decorative 
representation of  long, wind-slanted 
grass, such as one finds in man}' 
a lonely country churchyard.'
The print, too, impresses the 
viewer. Somehow, after seeing 
rather nice words maltreated in 
city papers, Freshmen themes and 
history theses, punctuation totally 
disregarded, and spelling horribly 
corrupted, one seems to -be on a 
brief sojourn in the illusive-fields 
when gazing upon g!s with com
plete tails, commas-what are com
mas before all' B.UTS, and Aeropagitica spelled, right. There are 
in these books Old English, Black 
Letter, Antique, Gothic, Bold Face 
and Clarendon lettersall perfect
ly . formed and in their proper 
places on well-arranged pages. The 
best represented. of the presses is 
the ' Nonesuch Press, while others 
arc the Ballantyne, the Essex 
House, Daniel OConnor of Lon
don, the Riverside ' Press and the 
Golden Cockerell.
Other interesting details of the 
exhibit arc a volume of the: Vicar 
of Wakefield containing .colored 
prints of the Vicar and .his con
temporaries, ..bookplates by Sidney 
Hunt, a marvelously designed edi
tion  of Thais,:' several books: iHus-, 
tratcd by  Rockwell Kent, .some 
imaginative etchings and-, drawings 
of fairies and' other dream, crea
tures (notably- a spirited, horse with 
feet like the roots of a dark, forest 
tree), rich and elaborate bindings,' 
and a great volume containing the 
Story- of Rolland with some richly 
colored and . delicately designed 
decorations..
Believe it or not, as Mr. Ripley 
says, Carnegie is going to have a 
real honest-to-goodness orchestra 
at their Junior Prom this year 
Last spring that austere body which 
guides and' governs our destinies 
made a ruling in one of its weaker 
movements which prevented any 
dance committee, Junior Prom or 
otherwise, from paying more than 
$250 for an .orchestra. This ruling 
was to prevent the boys with 
sticky fingers from getting their 
share. Well, this year, by way of 
diversion, wc have an honest 
Junior Prom Committee. These 
boys decided that, if Carnegie stu
dents were to pay nine simoleons 
for a dance, they should receive 
nine dollars worth in return. So 
the aforementioned committee went 
before the Student Council and 
persuaded the powers that be, after 
a lot of honorary opposition, that 
a really good orchestra could not 
be had for $250. The budget was 
finally passed, and now there is 
no doubt but that a really worth
while recording orchestra of more 
than local fame will be on hand 
February 7. Nine dollars isnt so 
much, either, when you consider 
that we are having a'Prom that 
really is a Prom, so start saving 
your pennies, or rather dollars, and 
be on hand. Everyone can come, 
even the lowly sophomores and the 
still more lowly plebes, so lets all be there.
who debate on current topics of 
interest to the .students, presented 
a petition for recognition to Coun
cil. This petition was referred to 
Mr. Becker. A recommendation 
suggesting Gertrude. Ott.e as Asso
ciate Editor of the Thistle, to suc
ceed Jane Moses, who did not re
turn to school thisfall, was also 
approves. Miss. Otte . is a Junior 
in the Costume Economics, Depart
ment in Margaret Morrison.
Mr. Aihwell, chairman of the 
committee to draw up a tentative 
program for the proposed Spring 
Carnival, announced that a fairly 
definite program had been formu
lated and that a definite report 
would be presented at the next 
meeting.
TRAFFIC PROBLEMcheering for PI-TT with a joyous 
abandon that makes everyone with
in audible distance grind their teeth 
with ragd, and wish for an auto
matic . water douche effective at 
their approach.
As Stevenson, would say,' the 
situation is pale, penctratin and 
interestin, and it only remains 
for' the Institute to offer a prize 
of a years- tuition or so, in order 
that it may be bettered. But at 
present, here we arcsans ideas, 
sans cash, and PLUS an increasing 
number of campus, nuisances, that 
bid fair to change the first syllabic 
of CARnegic to "Dent, leaving 
the, result to be imagined..............
(Continued from Page One) 
creatures, arc not in the least per
suasive, and most of us could doze 
on in peace were it not that soand-so would get The Place first!
We all know the ancient-andhonorable joke about the man who 
parked his car the night before, 
and, the next morning, trolleyed 
to his destination. Lamentable 
though it, is, that is the situation 
which is fast approaching the con
fines o Carnegies campus.
The night school students have 
their traffic troubles, too, and a 
story is toldwe seem to be sur
feited with them todayof one 
poor soul that got there early one 
evening, parked his gum and his 
buggy, and hied himself off to 
class. When lie emerged an hour 
later he was hemmed in on all 
sides by various and sundry.makes 
of cars whose owners were no
where in sight, and who continued 
to be elusive for another hour. 
And thenhe had to wait two 
hours until the last one had de
parted so .that lie, the early bird, 
could leave unmolested by the un
pleasant scraping sounds that ac
company a chance encounter with 
friend mudguard of the neighbor
ing flivver. It is questionable 
whether a day student would have 
been, so patient; doubtless more 
stringent methods of moving the 
cars to other ports would have 
been adopted, and if all else failed, 
he would probably have driven on 
up and over the pavement.
The lunch hour jam is almost as 
deplorable, with the rolling Royccs 
from Cathedral Mansionsthe erst
while parking garageadding to 
the general confusion. They bob 
in and out with amazing celerity. 
Moreover, numerous representatives 
from the heathen sect on yon hill 
have a demonical joy in speeding 
about our. highways and byways
RABBI KAGAN TO HOLD
(Cpntinucd from Page One) 
senior at Pitt, was elected presi
dent.
The Y. M. and W. H.- A. has 
announced the next speaker in this 
seasons lecture series to he Lew 
Sarctt, distinguished poet and 
woodsman. Known today a$ one 
of Americas finest poets of the 
wilderness, he was once a tene
ment waif. Sarctt, who appears 
before his audiences in the . con
ventional woodsmans garb, will 
speak at the Memorial Auditorium 
Monday evening, February 3.
MENS GLEE CLUB
(Continued from. Page One) 
Thursday, of .this week the Mens 
Glee Club will .offer: a formal Con
cert at th.e U. S. .Veterans. Hospi
tal of . Aspirfwall. The Concert will 
be of one hours .duration.
The Joint Formal Bi-annual 
Concert jvith the Pennsylvania 
College for Womens Glee Club 
will be held on February > 19, at 
Woodland road. This event is one 
of the marked engagements of the 
Glee Clubs active year. It is 
usually followed by a' dance for 
the combined clubs. The Mens 
Glee Club will sing 'under Donald 
Tcare, assistant director.
Part eliminations .have been held, 
and the personnel will be compos
ed of '35 members.
BY A SOPH
(Continued from Page One) 
singing merrily. The meal was 
served and subsequently annihi
lated, and then, as dessertcame 
the plebes! At every entrance they 
were met and repulsed by a handful 
of sophs, while the remainder 
fought among themselves on the 
inside for the privilege of enjoying 
the kill. The air was full of fly
ing chairs, pestiferous gas bombs 
and verbal epithets, but not for 
long, for again Pa Pitts bluccoats 
had to step in and this time John 
Law prevented the accomplish
ment of as much good in ten min
utes as ordinarily takes place in a 
dozen plcbc trials. /
Thus ended one hectic day and, 
as the students and the silverware 
left in a body to storm the 
Academy, the banquet of the class 
of 32 passed on to posterity as one 
grand memory.
three class honoraries here at Car
negie.
Dean Tarbcll has requested the 
Council to urge its members to make 
sure that all the new men in their 
houses have filed their change of ad
dress at the Deans office so that 
communications sent to their former 
address can be forwarded to them.
(Continued from page 1) 
the irrepressible house manager ap
peared, and he and his followers 
cut off all retreat. To add to the 
excitement of .the moment, a certain 
uniformed gentleman arrived in a 
well-known black sedan. A truce 
was declared and the plebes agreed 
to suspend activities until the 
plcbe banquet. One goodly hero, 
however, upheld the honor of the 
class of 33. While the conference 
was* taking place, he slipped past 
the cordon, up the escape, to the 
seventh floor. He descended to 
the banquet hall via the elevator 
and fired one last volley of the 
deadly gas bombs.
That, my friends and readers, is 
the entire story of how ninety 
sophs were'routed by some seven
teen plebes.
FRATERNITY FINED
STUDENT COUNCIL
(Continued from page 1) 
and exempt them, from further ob-. 
servancc of regulations. Cards of 
exemption arc given out after the 
plebes have been paraded about 
the campus.
 The Debating Club, an organiza
tion of girls of Margaret Morrison,
SECOND INSTALLMENT DUEWOMENS GLEE CLUB
(Continued from Page One) 
Virginia Steele,. Margaret Hcrtzler, 
Virginia Page, Betty Goodwin, Peg 
Jackson, Geraldine Beals, Imogenc 
Schory and Ida Campbell.
(Continued from page 1) 
these concerts will be held twicc 
a week under the direction of Pro
fessor Malchrcck, and about sixty 
girls will participate.
(Continued from Page One) 
one of the Deans of Men. In this 
way a connection i's established with 
the. administration although not of
ficially. Better co-operation and under
standing is accomplished b}' having 
the meetings at tho various fraternity 
houses, a system now used bj' thePipes save no 
midnight oil
championship, the Beta Theta Pis 
won the American, and McGill 
Hall took first place in the Na
tional. In the playoff, McGill Hal! 
took the cup by defeating the 
other two teams.Bulletin BoardI
F PIPES made the man; anybody 
at all could rise in the world just 
by smoking a few pounds of Edgeworth. But pipes do not make the man.
Men make the pipemost men do. 
Somewhat depends on the individual; 
more on the pipe; and the tobacco is 
most important of all. Things must 
be congenial.
Edgeworth is a congenial tobacco; 
cool, slow-burning, fully flavored. 
Edgeworth has poise; kindly good 
nature; real tobacco personality  
Edgeworth welcomes new friends. 
Many a good man has been pledged 
to pipes by Edgeworth alone.
Like to meet Edgeworth? Just ask 
with the couponand the postman 
will bring your first few pipefuls of 
the genuine; three years seasoned if 
its a day. Our treat; if you please.
Others have found Edgeworth and 
quit their discontent.
So may it be with you!
TODAY
8:30 P. M.Addresspby Hon. Ray Lyman Wilbur, Secretary of Interior, Carnegie Music Hall.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 16 
6:15 P. M.Teknon Meeting, Shadyside Presbyterian Church.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17 
4:30 P. M.Sophomore Bridge Party, Rec. Hall.8:00 P. M.Carnegie-Michigan State Basketball GameGym'.9:00 P. M.Intersorority Formal, Morrowfield Apartments.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 18 
2:00 P. M.Mortar_ Board Bridge Party, Forbes Hall.8:00 P. M.Carnegie-Grove City Basketball Game, Gymnasium.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 21 
12:00 NoonSocial Problems Club Meeting, Room 106, ArtsSpeaker, Dr. William J. Van Essen.
Y- w- CA Dinner. R=c. Hall, Speaker, Rev. R. \V. Lloyd, oivrv Alpha Chi Alpha Meeting, Publications Office.8:00 P. M.Carnegie-Geneva Basketball Game, Beaver Falls.STUDENTS
ACCOUNTS WELCOME
atForbes National Bank
Fifth and Oakland PITTSBURGH
It takes more than a 
degree to make an engineerTHE 1930 THISTLE
EDGEWORTH
Edgeworth is a careful blend 
of ood tobaccos  selected 
especially for pipe-smoking. Its 
quality and flavor never 
change. Buy it anywhero 
 Ready Rubbed or 
Plug Slice15f pocket 
I package to pound humi/ dor tin.
The 1930 Thistle Staff
Please reserve for me a 1930 Thistle.
i HSP3O & Bro. Co., Richmond, Vn.
{ Ill try your Edgeworth. And Ill try 
I it in a good pipe.
(Witness my seal)
Address ---------------------------------------------- Telephone______________
Town Students, specify where and when it is convenient for you. to meet a salesman.
(and my seat of learning)
I ~ (and my postoffice and state) 
I Now let the Edgeworth cornel
