Daylight Saving 
Time 
Begins Midnight, 
April 23
Soph-Freshman 
Circus 
of Margaret Morrison 
Thursday 46
VOL. XXVI, No. 26.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 1932.
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE WILL OPENSATURDAY
Production Will Continue 
Two Weeks; Clubs 
to Attend
Tau Beta Pi Calls Six New Men
From Engineering Junior Class
ARTS OFFICER CHOSEN
Franklin Heller and 
Thomas Gorman to 
Portray Shylock
As the annual Shakespearean production, tlvc Department of Drama 
will present "The Merchant of 
Venice/ opening Saturday evening, 
April 23, and continuing for two 
weeks through Thursday, May- 5 in 
the Little Theater.,, It is being given 
under the direction of B. Iden Payne, 
visiting professor of drama. On the 
twenty-fifth of April, the Art So
ciety of Pittsburgh will attend the 
evening performance, and the RotaryAnns will see the performance on the 
twenty-sixth. The Drama League is 
expected to attend on the fifth of 
May. |
The/various stories included in the 
play.may have been based upon comp.um themes of folk talcs and Italian 
novels. Also, Shakespeare may have 
had before him a play called "The 
Jew," in which motives illustrating 
"the greediness of worldly chusers 
and bloody mindes of usurers ap
pear to have already been combin
ed suggesting the well-known char
acter of Shylock.
The parts for the Merchant of 
Venice are cast as follows:
Duke of Venice-------------------------------------............William I3eal and Lewis Goldsmith
Antonio.---------|.-------------Robert Gill
Bassanio__________:---------------Donn Eonhoil'
Cirntinrio__McClellan Sliimv and John Dawson
Lo.venzo...John Dawson and Don Ailtcnhcnd
SByloelc-------------------------------------------------f........Thomas Gorman and Franklin Holler
Tubal -....________i___;----------William Behr.se
Gobbo....Walter - Derdbyn and Vernon Crane
Olh Gobbo.........................-.....................->____Lewis Goldsmith and William Bohrse
Salarino ---------------- -----------------------____Edward Kelly and Herman Liveright
Solanio ...............................Emanuel Breakstone
Salerlo ,' ' ' ' ...............................Frank Mason
' Morocco ------------------1........................ ..................-  .........................___Samuel Messer and Bartlett Robinson
Aragon ---------------------------------Don Gallagher
Leonardo Stephano-------------------Regin Joyce
Elizabeth Drake, Nancy Hasenwinkle 
and Helen Hotham
Nerhisa _________________________________Helen Sisenwain and Charlotte Rothrock
Olivia Kelly, Ella Haith and Nelle 
Lea Huffman
Morris Receives 
National Award
Jack; E. Morris, senior in Min
ing Engineering, has recently been 
awarded a scholarship by Tau Beta 
Pi, the national engineering hon
orary fraternity. Besides the privi
lege of attending any engineering 
college in the United States and 
the granting of $750 for the school 
year, the award carries with it a 
very high honor. Of 93 applica
tions for the scholarship by mem
bers of Tau Beta Pi, Mr. Morris 
is one of six or eight to receive 
the award. Mr. Morris has chosen 
to continue his work at Carnegie 
bjr taking graduate courses in min
ing and metallurgy, in which he 
will -work under the direction of 
Dr. Fettke. By enrolling at Car
negie, Mr. Morris will receive his 
tuition for the year in addition to 
ther parts of the award, 
fund for the scholarships is 
ulated by the alumni memf Tau Beta Pi. Mr. Morris 
le distinction of being the
the o 
The 
accurr 
bers i 
has t
first darnegic student to be award
ed on 
the fo 
Asid 
ests, 
T;heta 
active
Changes Are Made
In Neu) Senior Diplomas
of the scholarships during 
irs years of their existence, 
e from his academia inter,[r. Morris is a member of 
Xi, social fraternity, and an 
worker in the Kiltie Band.
The design of the new style 
diploma was changed at the Student 
Council meeting of April 12. Ac
cording to rcccnt plans, all the leather 
eases will be of black morocco in
stead of a : design of the various 
school cplors. However, the color of 
the linings will indicate the schools 
from which the receivers arc gradu
ated. For instance, Margaret Morri
son students will reoive their 
diplomas with yellow linings, etc.
This change was rccommcndcd by 
instructors of the chemistry and 
metallurgical departments, who state 
that the dye used in staining morocco 
leather colors other than bland would 
tend to disintegrate the leather in a 
few years. It was also suggested that 
black hues' would be more in keeping 
with solemnity of commencement ex
ercises than the red, blue, and green 
ones.
Dr. Baker Will Be Host 
to Chapter At 
Tea
Six juniors in the College of En
gineering have been called to Tau 
Beta Pi, national engineering hon
orary, in the recent spring call.
The men chosen are:
Robert .Hutchison, Commercial Eng. 
Earl Warrick, Chemical Eng. 
Anthony Carnvale, Physics.
Edward McCandlcss, Physics.
Wilfred UfFelman, Electrical Eng. 
Robert Smith, Mechanical Eng.
To be eligible for Tau Beta. Pi, 
a man must be in the upper oneeight of his class, his average being 
computed on basis of grades for 
five semesters.
Activities, outside work, general 
interest in school affairs and per
sonality are other factors taken in
to consideration in choosing mem
bers.
Initiation of the newr men will 
take place on Thursday afternoon, 
May 12, to be followed by an in
itiation banquet. William Burns, 
junior mechanical, has been named 
chairman of the committee for the 
banquet program. Faculty members 
will be invited to attend the initia
tion and banquet.
Members of the faculty of the 
College of Engineering were hosts 
to Tau Beta Pi at a banquet on 
Thursday, April 14 in the Com
mons Annex.
Igor Karassik, senior mechanical, 
was in charge of the discussion 
which followed the banquet. Topics 
under discussion were: possible
changes in the grading system now 
in use at Carnegie and the feasi
bility of allowing graduates to re
turn tuition free for experimental 
work. In return for this privilege, 
students would assist instructors 
in assembling, apparatus for under
graduate laboratory work.
Dr. Baker will be host at tea 
to members of Tau Beta Pi and 
their wives will be invited by Dr. 
Baker, who is an honorary mem
ber of the Carnegie chapter of Tau 
Beta Pi.
Erratic Professor Shocks
Two Hundred At Lecture
Two hundred sophomores 
were horribly shocked last 
Thursday by the eccentric ac
tion of their lecturing profes
sor. Having gathered for 
their t Thursday lecture, in 
Room 209 Engineering Hall, 
the sophomore students  of 
the Colleges of Engineer
ing and Industries were com
pelled to take the hands of 
their neighbors, . forming an 
endless chain up and down 
the rows.
Professor Hower, Head of 
the Psysics Department and 
lecturer in physics, then re
quested two front row stu
dents to grasp the ends of 
two bar?, thereby sending a 
current of five amperes 10 
volts through the. bodies of 
the two hundred sophomores 
from an electrostatic machine 
on the lecture table.
At the request of the stu
dents Professor Hower trans
mitted a larger current. No 
second request was put forth.
Smith Award Is 
Open To Junior
Scholarship Given Annual
ly to High Engineer
The George H. Smith Scholar
ship, awarded annually to a mem
ber of the junior class of the Col
lege of Engineering, as a memorial 
to George H. Smith, a 1910 gradu
ate of the College of .Engineering, 
will be given again this year to a 
worthy junior student in good 
standing. In awarding the scholar
ship, the applicants scholastic 
standing, personal need, personality, 
and participation in school and 
class activities will be taken into 
consideration.
Application blanks, obtainable at 
the Emplbjrment or Alumni offices', 
must be returned b)r May 15. The 
amount of the award, $100, is pay
able upon registration for the 
senior year.
Each applicant must have a per
sonal interview with a committee 
of alumni appointed by the Alumni 
Association of the . college.
Howard D. Maxwell, a student 
the Physics Department, re
ceived the aw:ard last year.
Miss Crawley to Speak
At Y. W. C. A. Supper
Miss Helen CraAvley, a noted 
authority on the present economic 
situation, will be the guest speaker 
at the Y. W. C. A. supper meeting 
this evening at 5:30 in Margaret. 
Morrison Recreation Hall. Miss 
Crawley is the Industrial secretary 
of the Pittsburgh Y. W. C. A.
These supper jncctings are open 
forums at which the members of 
the Y. W. C. A. discuss many 
problems of current interest. The 
girls of Art School and Margaret 
Morrison arc invited to attend. 
The cost of the supper will be 
30 cents.
PI DELTA EPSILON 
TO HOLD CONTEST
Local Chapter Will Be Host 
At Next Conven
tion
A newspaper contest among the 
high schools of Allegheny county 
is to be conducted by the local 
chapter of Pi Delta Epsilon, mens 
honorary journalistic fraternity. 
Announcements of the new'est com
petition among the secondary 
schools of the district are now be
ing mailed to the 40 student news
papers eligible to enter issues of their publication.
According to the present plans 
the high schools will send a num
ber of consecutive issues _of. their 
papers to the judges at Carnegie. 
A trophy will be awarded the 
school winning the distinction of 
having the best paper for the dis
trict. According to the sponsors 
each school will benefit directly by 
the criticisms and suggestions 
given their paper. In addition the 
younger journalists will receive an 
introduction to journalistic activities at Carnegie. t
Judgment of the entries -will be 
done probably by representatives 
of the downtown newspapers, as 
well as the editor of the Tartan, 
and a member of the English De
partment. Awards. will be made 
at the winning school before the 
close of the present- semester.
Representatives to the recent Pi 
Delta Epsilon convention in Wash
ington from Carnegie announce 
that this school has been chosen 
as the site for next years con
ference of the fraternity. The 
three-day meeting with representa
tives of over 50 colleges will take 
place probably next April.
The three delegates to the Wash
ington convention were Miles A. 
ICinley, president of the local chap
ter; Edward E. MacDonald, secre
tary of the organization, and Harry
D. Kolb, editor of the Tartan., 
Afnong the recommendations of the 
student editors and business man
agers from all over they country 
wereapproval of the combined 
(Continued on Page Four)
MANY DEPTS. WILL FE ATURE IN EXHIBITION
Masonry Shop to Open 
Newly-Constructed 
Salon
R. 0. T. C. WILL PARADE
Music and Drama Students 
to Present Pro
grams
Departments in all schools have 
announced programs and exhibits 
for the Annual Exhibition  to be 
held Friday, April 29.
In addition to the regular- pro
gram such as has been given in the 
past and which will be given this 
year in the evening from 7:30' to 
10:30 p. m., ther.e will be a special 
afternoon program for s'tuHents in 
high schools and vicinity during 
the hours of 2:30 and 5 oclock.
The evening program will begin 
at 7 oclock when the R. O. T. C., 
accompanied by' the Kiltie Band, 
parades on the Cut. At 7:30 p. m. 
the buildings will be open to visitors.
Among exhibits of .interest will 
be that in the concrete and ma
sonry shop where a "modern salon 
for exhibiting materials designed 
and built by students will be open 
for inspection.
Melvin Morris, senior architect, 
is the designer of the salon. His 
design was the winner in a com
petition with senior architects. 
Juniors in the short Building, and 
Construction course have acted as 
construction superintendents, ieach 
being in charge of the work: for 
one week; Night school students 
have also worked, on the problem, 
work on which began at the first 
of the year.
A music pavilion will be erected 
at one end where a program will 
be presented by students from the 
Department of Music.
(Continued on Page Four)
Parents to Hear 
Education Talks
The Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology is , one ,.of the many promi
nent groups in the city sponsoring 
the forthcoming Parent Education 
Conference at the Hotel Schenley, 
April 28 and 29.
All sessions of the two-day con
ference will be open to the public. 
Psychology and Sociology students 
are invited to attend.
Leading, local educators includ
ing Miss Ella Ruth Boyce, direc
tor of city kindergartens; Dr. E;.
G. Kuhlman; Hj. L. Spencer, prin
cipal of the PI. C. Frick Training 
School for Teachers; Dr. Florence 
M. Teagarden, Psychology Depart
ment of the University of Pitts
burgh; Martin P. Clnvorowsky, 
principal of the Falk Elementary 
School; , Carroll A. Whitmar, Uni
versity of Pittsburgh; Dr. George 
J. Mohr, director of Child Guid
ance Centcf; Miss Thyrsa Amos, 
Dean of Women, University of 
Pittsburgh; Dr. Edward E. Mayer, 
and Dr. Omar C. Held, University 
of Pittsburgh, will lead discussion 
groups.
SCHOOLS WILL ELECT SENATE 
HEADS TODAY
All Classes Permitted to 
Vote For Senate 
Presidents
PAYNE WILL DIRECT
Persons Elected Today
Are Eligible For Coun
cil Presidency
Each of the three colleges, Mar
garet Morrison, Engineering, and 
Industry, will hold an election for 
the president of its respective; 
Senate, for 1932, today from 11:30 
to 1:30.
The polling places will be: at 
the entrance hall of the Margaret 
Morrison College, in front of the 
bulletin board in the main hall *of 
the College of Engineering, and 
near the center of the main cor
ridor in the College of Industries.
The list of candidates for the 
Senate offices are: Margaret Mor
rison College, Margaret Siebert, 
and Katherine Wholcy; College of 
Engineering, William C. Lazarus, 
Harr3r - S. Hower, Jr., and P.obert 
R. Smith; Gollcge of Industries, 
Joseph C. Bronson, Ira F. Kuhn, 
George A. Pillsbury, and Charles
E. Schatvet; College of Fine Arts, Josef L. Lentz.
All four classes, seniors, juniors, 
sophomores, and freshmen, in each 
school,, vote in this election.
Freshmen taking Printing and 
Publishing, Building Construction, 
or Industrial Education vote in the 
College of Industries. All other 
Engineering-Industries fre shmen 
vote in the College of Engineering.
As Mr. Lentz, the candidate from 
the. College of Fine Arts, is un
opposed, he will automatically be
come president of the Arts Renate 
without the formality of an elec
tion.
The persons wrho arc elected to 
office today will be considered 
candidates for the presidency of 
the Student Council.
Results of this election will be 
published in.the Tartan next week.
Theta Tau Gives 
Smoker Thursday
Prospective members of Theta Tau, 
national professional fraternity, "Will 
be entertained at a smoker Thursday 
evening. Together tfith the active 
chapter the prospective members will 
meet in Engineering Hall, Room 209, 
at 7:30, when a program of technical 
talking pictures will be presented 
through the courtesy of the Bell 
Telephone Company.
Following the pictures the prospec
tive members will be formally in
troduced to the present chapter. At 
the conclusion of the. program re
freshments will be served.
On Sunday, April 24, the fra
ternity will hold the final interviews 
with the candidates. Initiation of those 
chosen will be held May 14 and 15.
Theta Tau is a national engineer
ing fraternity, the members of which 
arc chosen from the College of
Engineering in the basis of activities 
and scholarship. There arc twentythree chapters of Theta Tau through(Continued on Page Four)
William Lazarus and Emil Stankey 
To Head Next Years Puppet Staff
New Staff to Edit Last 
Two Issues of This 
Year
William C: Lazarus 33 w'as nam
ed the new Puppet Editor-in-Chief, 
and Emil G. 
Stankey 33, Bus
iness Manager, in 
the recent Pup
pet Staff elec
tions. Other men 
and women who 
will head the va
rious depart
ments on the 
Puppet staff next 
year arc: Rosemany Saxton 34, 
Womens Editor; 
Roger D. Middlekauff '34, Ex
change Editor; Katherine Wholey 
33, Literary Editor; Edna Pearson 
33, Art Editor; John R. Fox '34, 
Advertising Manager, and William
A. Smith '33, Exchange Editor.
Wm. C. Lazarus
Mr. Lazarus is in the Depart
ment of Mechanical Engineering, 
a member of Delta Upsilon social 
fraternity, this years Exchange 
Editor of the Puppet, and a candi
date for president of the College 
of Engineering Senate.
Miss Saxton the 
n e w Womens 
Editor, is enroll
ed in the Sculptoring Depart
ment, College of 
Fine Arts and is 
secretary of 
Gamma Gamma 
Gamma, social 
sorority, -vice 
president o f 
Cw'ens, wromens 
sophomore hon
orary, and a 
Tartan reporter.
Mr. Middlekauff, the new Ex
change Editor, is in the Depart
ment of Elcctrical Engineering and 
a member of Delta Upsilon, social 
fraternity.
(Continued on Page Four)
E. G. Stankey
MORTAR BOARD 
WILL HOLD TEA
Mothers of Senior Girls to 
Be Guests on 
April 24
The mothers of the senior girls 
in Margaret Morrison College and 
the College of Fine Arts arc cor
dially invited to attend a tea in
the Margaret Morrison Recreation 
Hall Sundajr, April 24, from 2:30 
until 5:30 oclock. This affair 
being sponsored by Mortar Board 
with hopes that it will bccome 
traditional. This is the first time 
that an attempt has been made to 
bring the mothers of tlic senior
girls together before Commence
ment. Formerly, the only time
that the mothers had an oppor
tunity to become acquainted with 
each other wras at the Faculty tea 
which is held after graduation.
Invitations have been -sent to all 
the mothers, and it is hoped that 
they will be as enthusiastic in ac
cepting as the girls have been in 
preparing for the occasion. If 
through an oversight, some of the 
mothers did not receive invitations, 
it is hoped that they will attend 
nevertheless. The arrangements arc 
under 'the direction of Mary Hau
ser who is the chairman.
Last Sunday, Mortar Board . had 
a meeting in Margaret Morrison 
Recreation Hall to make plans for 
a Mortar Board Alumnae Associa
tion. This is the first time iplans 
for such an organization have been 
formulated, and enthusiasm is run
ning high.
Miss Hazel Knight, senior class 
sponsor, and Miss Edith Winches
ter, honorary member of Mortar 
Board,' will pour. In the receiv
ing line will be .Dean Mary Wat
son Green, Lois McGregor, presi
dent of Mortar Board; Mary Helen 
Stepheny,; vice president of Art 
School seniors, and Jane Croyle, 
president of the M. M., senior class.
M. M. C. C. Senate Party
The Margaret Morrison Senate will hold its annual party on Wednesday afternoon, April 27, in the recreation hall. A1 lmembers of M. M. C. C. are invited.
FRATERNITY RUSHING SYSTEMS AT OTHER SCHOOLS
Scholastic Rating Error
By an error in computation, 
Sig/fia Nu wras given a factor of 
3.20 instead of v3.S7 in the scholas
tic ranking of the fraternities. 
This change places Sigma Nu in 
third position among the 20 fra
ternities. The Committee on Schol
arships, Grants, and Prizes sub
mitted the correction.
(Editors Note: Belozu are present
ed the last of the excerpts from the 
Tartans recent survey of fraternity 
rushing systems used at various uni
versities of the country.)
University of Michigan 
Rushing rules at the University of 
Michigan provide for weekly meetings 
during the first - semester between 
ffcshmen and fraternity members and 
six open house dates which occur at 
specified times. The first semester 
is called an orientation period. Open 
rushing does not begin until the 
second semester.
Open houses may be held on Tues
day, Wednesday, or Thursda3r of the 
fourth and eighth weeks of the first 
semester and they must not bfcgin be
fore 4:00 p. in. nor continue after 
8:30 p. m. Each house may issue as 
many invitations as it desires. Fresh
men may accept more than one date
for the same day. Beginning on
Wednesday of the ninth week of the 
first semester and continuing until the 
beginning of the examination period 
at the end of the semester, fresh
men may be invited to dinner on
Wednesday evenings at fraternity 
houses. Freshmen can be in the 
houses only from 6 to 8 oclock. 
There must not be more than seven 
freshmen present at one time at
these dinner meetings.
The rushing period begins with 
Sunday of the third week of the 
second semester and extends for five
days. A fraternity may have three 
dates with each freshman it de
sires to rush, but not more than one 
engagement may occur on the same 
day. One engagement is to extend 
for two hours either at luncheon, at 
dinner, or Sunday afternoon.
Bids are extended through the 
Dean of Students. By 9 a. m. Fri
day of rushing week, each fraternity 
presents to the Dean of Students 
a list of the freshmen it is wdlling 
to pledge, in order of preference, and 
names the number it desires. Each 
of the freshmen on the lists is noti
fied that his name is included thereon. After the freshman receives this 
notice, he presents to the Deans 
office 1)y Saturday noon, a list, in 
order of' preference, of the fraterni
ties from which he w'ould accept 
a bid. The Deans office then.honors 
these bids and acceptances accord
ing to the respective order of pre
ference, and awards as near, but not 
more than, the number of pledges 
each fraternity desires. After the 
freshmen are notified of the results, 
they report at the respective fraterni
ty houses at 6 p. m. the following 
Monday to be officially pledged.
At the University of Michigan, all
SCHOOLBucknell University____University of CaliforniaUniversity of Illinois------University of. Kansas___Kansas State UniversityLehigh University _____University . of Maine____University of Michigan.University of Missouri__Northwestern UniversityOhio State University__Ohio UniversityUniversity of Pittsburgh-Syracuse University _____University of Utah
ConsideredRushingPledgingSuccessNoYes,?
NoNoYesNoYesYesNoYes?
NoYes?
NoYesYesNoYesNewYesYes?
NoYes. ?
NoNo?
NoNoYesNoNo?
YesYesYesYesYes?
Y esYesNew_ NoNoNo
ted as meaning: rushingconfined to
University of West Virginia
NOTE: Deferred Rushing is ii 
period which conies a month or more after classes begin. Deferred Pledging 
moans that pledging cannot ta^p place until after a certain time either during 
or after the rushing period. (?) means that no statement was given.The rushing systems at the first seven listed schools u-crc presented last week.
rushing activities must be held in 
the fraternity houses and must en
tail only moderate ' expenditure. 
Freshmen must come and leave un
accompanied" when invited to visit the 
fraternities. Automobiles are not to 
be used in rushing at any time. 
Invitations for all engagements must 
be made by phone or mail. Fraternity 
men are not permitted to visit fresh
men at their places of residence 
until official pledging has taken place, 
except in the case of brothers.
University of Missouri
A form of open rushing before 
school opens prevails at the Uni
versity of Missouri. No student is 
permitted to pledge until he has ful
filled all of the dates which he might 
have made with various fraternities. 
Dates may be broken only after 
notice is given one 'cek before regis
tration to the Dean of Men and the 
president of the fraternity with which 
the dates are broken. The dates all 
occur on the same day. This year 
the day was Sunday, September 15. 
The first date period extends from
9 a. m. to 1 p. m. ; the second, 1 
p. m. to 5 p. m. ; the third, 5 p. m. 
to 10 p. m.; the fourth, 10 p. m. to 
Monday. 9 a. m. ; and the fifth, Mon
day 9 a. m. to 12 noon. Pledging is 
announced Monday noon.
Any freshman who fails to obtain 
entrance into the University of Mis
souri within ten days after pledg(Continued on Page Four)
Carnival Committee Holds
Luncheon Meeting Today
Margery J. Levine, a senior 
in the Drama Department, 
has volunteered to write the 
scenario for the coronation 
pageant, which will be held 
this year on the steps of 
Machinery hall. Plans for the 
presentation of a musical, re
vue during the festival will be 
considered today at the meet
ing. It is' expected that a 
dramatic organization will be 
formed on the campus to pre
sent this revue. Another fea
ture of the carnival which is 
being planned will be a socalled "stunt day on which 
the students will be asked to 
appear in costume.
Council Discusses 
Rushing Conditions
Committee Proposes 
Change in Rushing 
Season
At the last meeting of the Interfraternity Council held at the Phi 
Kappa house on Wednesday of last 
week, the Rushing Season Investi
gation committee, which was ap
pointed at the meeting of January
7, 1932, submitted its report to the 
council for consideration. This 
committee which includes C. D. 
Welch, chairman, Lambda Chi Al
pha; W. H. Sprcnkle, Delta Sigma 
Lambda; and T. B. Blackwood, 
Alpha Tati Omega; was instructed 
by the. council to investigate rush
ing conditions at other schools and 
from them to formulate a plan 
which might better the rushing 
situation at Carnegie.
As a result of the committee's 
report, a motion was made and 
carried that an attempt be made 
by the present, council to have the 
rushing period begin a week after 
the opening of school in Septem
ber. This change, it is contended, 
will tend to decrease the undesir
able effect which rushing season 
usually has on scholarship and will 
also eliminate the unnecessary ex
penditures which have- been at
tached to previous rushing seasons. 
Also, because of the fact that there 
will be a longer period of time 
between the rushing period and the 
close of school, the council believes 
that a more friendly feeling will 
be promoted between the various 
fraternities during the school year.
For the remainder of this year 
all fraternities will, be asked to 
send two representatives to the 
council meetings; one of these men 
to be a junior. This has been 
done to give the members of the 
council for next year an idea of 
the proceedings of the body.
New Calendar On Sale
Copies of the Official Calendar 
for 1932-33 have been placed on 
sale in the bookstore at ten cents.
The decision to place the calen
dar on sale was made by the Com
mittee on Schedule and Calendar, 
of which Dr. Roscoe M. Ihrig is 
chairman, in response to the de
mand of many students and or
ganizations.
The Calendar, in black and white, 
is size 16TA" x 22".
"Y Ballots Due Today
All members of the Committee 
of Management and the freshman 
and general Y. M. C. A. Cabinets 
arc urged to return their ballots 
for cabinet officers to the Y 
office today. No ballots will be 
included in the election count un
less they comply with this rule.
DR. BAKER TO 
MAKE CHANGES 
INTHREEDEPTS.
Students to Have Wider 
Range of Options 
in Future
NEW DEPARTMENT HEAD
Graduates to Be Eligible 
For Professional 
Degrees
Continuing the program, inau
gurated five years ago, of com
bining departments, whenever pos
sible, in order to increase the 
number of graduates eligible for 
professional degrees, Dr. Baker has 
announced that the Department o\ 
Works ^ Management will become 
an option of the Commercial Eli-:" 
ginccring Department; the Depart-, 
ment of Building Construction will 
become an option of the Depart
ment of Civil Engineering; and the 
Department of Heating, Ventilat
ing, and Plumbing will become an 
option of the Department of Me
chanical Engineering. Under the 
new plan, graduates in Building 
Construction from the Department 
of Civil Engineering will becomc - 
eligible for professional degrees in 
Civil Engineering. Virtually the 
same plan will be in effect with 
the other options.
Next year juniors and seniors 
will continue their present courscs 
under the auspices of the College 
of Industries, but sophomores in 
Works Management, in Building 
Construction, and Heating, Ven
tilating, and' Plumbing will be en
rolled next year as students in the, 
College of Engineering.
It will thus be two years befoVv 
the details of the changes will have 
been worked out.
Dr. Rittman, present head' of tin? 
Department of Commercial Engine 
ccring, will go on leave of absence 
next year and will be succeeded 
by Dr. Guild.. Dr. Rittman, who 
has been a member of the faculty 
of Carnegie since 1921, is a widely 
known consulting engineer and will 
devote his time to his consulting 
practice.
Dr. Guild is now associate pro
fessor of economics, having joined 
the faculty of Carnegie in 1927.
Professor Leeds will continue to 
direct the option in Works Man
agement, and Professor Dunnells 
the Building Construction.
Plebe Dance to 
Be Held Friday
Arrangements arc completed for 
the Margaret Morrison Freshman 
Dance, which will be held Friday 
evening, April 22, in Thistle Hall 
from 9 to 12 o'clock. Jerry McGcorges orchestra has been secured 
to furnish music for the evening. 
This will be the first dance spon
sored during the second semester by 
the class of 35.
Tickets may be obtained from any 
member of the committee at the price 
of $1.25.
Chaperones for the evening wi1! 
be Dr. and Mrs. Charles Watkins, 
Miss Eleanor Gruver, Miss A. C. 
McBride, Dr. and Mrs. L. PI. 
Schultz, and Dr. and Mrs. W. J. 
Staley.
Margaret Barr, social chairman of 
the Margaret Morrison freshman 
class, has appointed the following 
committees; entertainment, GwenPIad(Continued on Page Four)
Coming Events
TUESDAY, APRIL 19
Cooks Forest Outing Program Committee Meeting, Commons An
nex, 11:30.Spring Carnival Committee Meet-, ing, Faculty Dining Room of Car
negie Inn, 12:30.Y. M. C. A. Cabinet Meeting, Commons Annex, 12:30.
THURSDAY, APRIL 21 
Theta Tau Smoker, 209 Engineer
ing Hall, 7:30.FRIDAY, APRIL 22 Margaret Morrison Freshman 
Dance, Thistle Hall, 9-12.Electrical Smoker, Union, 7:30.
SATURDAY, APRIL 23 
Final Date to Drop Subjects. Cwens Informal Tea, Womens Club Room of the Gymnasium, 5:00.Scabbard and Blade Formal Dinner Dance, Venetian Room of Web
ster Hall, 6:30-1:00.
SUNDAY, APRIL 24 
Music Recital, Little Theater, 8:15.MONDAY, APRIL 25 Classes Will Run on "Daylight 
Savings Time.Football Team Call, Trophy Room of Gymnasium, 5:00 P. M.Citmus Club Dinner, Commons Annex, 5:30.
TUESDAY, APRIL 26 
Joint "Y Cabinet Meeting, Com
mons Annex, 12:30.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 19, 1932.
TRACK TEAM TO 
MEET RESERVE 
IN CLEVELAND
CLAN NEWSSkibos Make Correction 
To Pitts Rie Score
Football Candidates to 
Discuss Rule ChangesTHE LADDER
Cincinnati 
Cincinnati Clan is making plans 
to attend the Carnegie track meet 
that is_bcing held in the city on 
April 30. They are' also making 
tentative plans for a celebration at 
the Carnegie-St. Xavier' football 
game next fall. Definite informa
tion about these plans can be ob
tained from the president, W. M. 
Ball, 3328 Avery Lane.
The dinner meeting that was 
held on April 8 at the Mariement 
Inn was well-attended and quite 
successful. The program included 
the showing of the Carnegie 
Movies.
Cleveland 
The Cleveland Clan is inaugurat
ing a new plan by attempting to 
hold regular luncheon meetings the 
first Monday of every month at 
Kasses restaurant. The Clan has 
obtained the use of a private din
ing room, and a thirty-five or 
fifty-cent luncheon can be obtained. 
The second one, which was held 
April' 4, was quite successful.
Southern California
Having been shown in numerous 
cities in the eastern and central 
parts of the country, the Carnegie 
footbajl pictures \are now on their 
way across the continent to Cali
fornia. They will arriv,e in time to 
be shown at  the next Southern 
California Clan meeting on April 
21 or 22. The arrangements are 
being made, by Rudy Braudin, who
The Tartan Sports Page takes 
this opportunity to straighten out 
a slight difference % hich has re
sulted from a propo k*:1 rifle match 
between the teams of Pitt and 
Carnegie. The contract for a 
telegraphic match on February 
27 was never completed and 
therefore no competition prevail
ed. However, the Pitt authorities 
published a score that gave their 
shooters a 1420 to 1402 win over 
the Plaid team. This result is in
correct for no such match was 
scheduled.
A Skibo rifle team has never 
been defeated by a Pitt ' team, 
and their record was kept clean 
this past season by two decisive 
shoulder-to-shoulder victories over 
the Panther riflemen.
Members of last years Varsity 
and Freshmen football squads 
and any new candidates will meet 
in the Trophy Room next 'Mon
day, April 25, at 5 p. m. Head 
Coach Bob Waddell has called 
this meeting to discuss the new 
changed in the football rules' for 
the coming season.
While no actual practice will 
take place, black board drills 
will be held for the balance of 
that week. On separate after
noons plays will be discussed for 
line men, back field, and ends, 
the entire squad coming together 
for a general discussion at the 
end of the week.
Ella H. Scanlon, A. 27 
Ella H. Scanlon, an. honor grad
uate in 1927, has just returned from 
studying music in England and 
Austria. After graduation, Miss 
Scanlon spent two. years studying 
at the Royal Conservatory and re
ceived her diploma from that in
stitute. She spent several months 
traveling and studying music on 
the continent and in England. 
Miss Scanlon intends to establish 
herself in Pittsburgh in the fa'll 
where she will give concerts as 
well as teach.
Games Begin Wednesday;
Same Rules to Be 
Followed
After much pre-season talk and 
speculation, the Intramural Softball 
season finally gets under way to
morrow. The curtain lifters, who 
officially open the campaign, will play 
tomorrow night at 5:30. The Alpha 
Sigma Phis oppose the Renegades on 
field one, and the Delts play Iienderson Hall on field two.
This year the schedule is being 
run a little differently from that of 
last years league. There is only one 
league and the drawings are worked 
out similar to a tennis tournament. 
A team which loses two games is 
automatically out of the running. 
The playing rules are practically the 
same' this year as last year, no im
portant changes having been made. 
Mr. Risedorph and Mr. Moses will 
lake care'of .all of the officiating. 
According to the rules each game is 
scheduled to begin at 5:30 and a 
leeway of ten minutes will be allowed 
before a game is forfeited. All games 
that pre called off because of ra<n 
or wet grounds will be called off 
at the field and each team must be 
present at scheduled time or the 
other one wins by a forfeit.
Enthusiasm this year has been run
ning unusually high over the prospects 
of Mushball. Groups of players can 
be seen almost any time. on the 
field or over in the gym getting that 
old batting eye ready for the com
ing season.
There is going to be some grand 
rivaly for the championship this year. 
No less, than twenty-four teams have 
entered . the league. Some are listed 
as  Fraternity, some as Dormitory 
and some as independent teams. Each 
group thinks it has the classiest team 
and before long we will find out
who the prophets are. Schedules are
now being made and copies will be
given to each team. Each weeks 
schedule will be printed in the Tar
tan.
teams points, and along with him, 
came Red Black, who seemed to be 
prihicd for the evening with his fakiUg and fast under-basket shots.
At no time were the Phi Gams in 
the lead and the half ended 12-7 
with the Kappa-Sigs ahead. The sec
ond frame was more or less a
repetition of the first with plenty 
of clever floor work, and the game 
ended to the tune of > 22-15,' and 
thus giving the Tech boys the run
ners-up cup at least.
JOE MICHAELSON
IF THE PROVERBIAL BACON is brought home from 
the Western Reserve track meet next Saturday it is bound to 
appear in thin slices, for the' Clevelanders boast of a large squad 
which has the ability to take more than their share of the 
.points. Coach Halfertys middle distant runners will encounter 
a real obstacle in Captain Kcclcy, of the Red Cats. Their track 
events are further bolstered by Ward and Roth, but the Skibo 
field men are expected to encounter less opposition.
* * * *
WITH THE COMPLETION of basketball, swimming, and 
wrestling there remain but two intramural activities, softball 
and track. Tomorrow afternoon marks the opening of the 
mushball league which brings over four hundred students, 
"softies, into action. Plans are being made for a big celebra
tion whereby the president of something or other can throw 
out the opening ball.
Welch Hall Ijoolc the softball honors last year, but not with
out a certain amount o hard playing.
The S. A. E.'s gained the grapplers title last week by a 
small three-point margin over the Theta Xis. Although they 
earned the victory, many students wonder wlicre they get the 
practice.
Englebrecht tossers slipped up in their championship game 
with the Kappa Sigs of Pitt. The dorm boys are really equal 
to a better showing than they made. The Kappa Sig's of our 
campus had an easy time winning the runner-up position.
* * !(i *
NOW IS THE TIME FOR ALL P. Q. RATINGS to 
come to the eye of the public. And accordingly, Carnegies var
sity teams rise to the occasion with a 3.76 average that sur
passes the avcragos of fraternities, mens dormitories, or womens 
dormitories. The Tartan athletes are second only to the sorori
ties of the Arts School. Mr. Overend is justly proud of these 
results, and wishes to express the appreciation of the. Athletic 
Council to the athletic teams for their fine showing in the first 
semesters work.
Tht varsity swimming team, with their 4.13 average, has 
plunged far ahead of other groups on the campus. Here the 
combination of brain and brawn has reached its peak for the 
swimmers have just completed their most profitable season in 
the matter of meets won. The average of the tennis team is 
no meager quantity when it is high enough to lead the frater
nities and mens dormitories.
The first semester ratings for varsity teams, with the ex
ception of track, is given below:
1. Swimming 4.13
2. Tennis 4.06
3. Boxing 3.84
4. Basketball 3.79
6. Cross Country 3.67
6. Rifle 3.62
7. Football 3.22
Average 3.76
* * * *
AND BELIEVE IT OR NOT, according to Pitt, the Skibo 
rifle team was defeated by the Panthers in a match which was 
never shot. Just how our opponents manufactured a score for 
the Plaid team is still a mystery, but they did make sure to 
place themselves in the lead.
When better scores are made over Carnegie in rifle Pitt 
will not be connected with them, even with the help of their 
peep-holes.
* * * *
WHILE OTHER COLLEGES arc tuning up their grid 
iron hopefuls, Coach Waddell will meet his candidates in a 
series of blackboard tnllcs next week. The Athletic Council has 
continued their conservative tactics of limiting the spring train
ing to a few informal discussions.
Larry Castonguary, Eng. 19 
Larry Castonguary, a mechanical 
engineer of the class of 1919, 
visited Carnegie recently. He is at 
present an engineer with Pratt and 
Whitney Aircraft Company of 
Hartford, Conn.
PITT FRATERNITY 
WINS CAGE TITLE
Sports Calendar
Engelbrecht Nosed Out in 
Hard Game, 22-18can be reached at 308 Transporta
tion Building, Los Angeles.'
April IDPIcbc Tennis, at Mt. Lebanon.April 22PIcbc Tennis, at Kisltl.April 23PIcbc Track vs. Turtle Creek Union High, there.
April 23Varsity Track, at Western RcApril 27PIcbc Track vs. Schcnlcy High, here.April 27Varsity Tennis, at Dwiucsnc.
April 27PIcbc Tennis vs. Du(|uesnc, here.April, 29PIcbc Tennis vs. Shady Side, here.
April 30Varsity Tennis, at Grove City.April 30Plebc Track vs. Clarion State Teachers College, here.April 30Varsity Track, at Cincinnati.May 2Varsity Tennis, at- W. & J.May 2Plcbe Tennis vs. W. & .1., here.May 4plcbe Tennis, at Dmiucsnc.May -4Varsity Tennis vs. Duquesnc,here.
May -1Plcbe Track, at Xiski.May GPlcbe Tennis vs. Mt. Lebanon, here.May 7Varsity Tennis vs. Alumni, here.May 7Varsity Track vg. W. & J., here.May 9Varsity Tennis, at Pitt.
May 9Plcbe Tennis vs. Pitt, here.May 11Plcbe Tennis, at Shady Side.May 11Varsity Tennis vs. Grove City,here.
May 13Plcbo Track, at Shady SideAcademy.
May 13PIcbc Tennis vs. Klski, here.May 14Varsity Tennis vs. Temple, here.May 11Varsity Track, at Geneva.
The Fuller Brush Company has a limited number of openings in excellent territories, for college men this summer. The college agent will gladly give you further information.
W. S. BUTLER
932 MIRROR STREET 
HAzel 4105-W
(L ill
3806 FORBES STREET 
STUDENT SUPPLIES
25 per cent off on all FOUNTAIN PENS over $5.00
and may the best Blurbs win
464 cash prizes>ach month2 first prizes of $500 each
I TELL YOU l\/E TRIED 
'EM ALL, AND FOR 
Q.UICK, LAST/NQ 
LATHER IN ANY KIND 
OF WATER HOT OR 
COLD-HARP OR SOFfNOTHlNG, ABSOLUTELY 
NOTHING - COMPARES 
WITH PALMOLIVE/
PARDON ^5
POR BRAQQINq, j 
BILL, SUT 
PALMOLIVE' S 
THE FINEST 
SHAVJNQ CREAM 
A MAN EVER USED
7 DONT BE SO 1
1C1hangesA My 
rsMedIn Mn NCgu)
AS YOURS, AND I 
NEVER KNEW WHAT 
A CLOSE SHAVE WAS
NSii S gnsd Colgate's
YOU RE WRONQ ^ 
AQAIN, WALT 
COLGATE'S FOR ME 
FIRST, LAST, AND 
ALWAYS- YOU CAN 
HAVE ALL THE .REST
Mushball Schedule
Week Beginning April 20
WednesdayDelta Tau Delta vs. Henderson Hall. Alpha  Slgnm Phi va. Renegades. ThursdaySenior Builders vb. Kappa -Delta Rho. Kappa Sigma vb. Phi Delta Tau. FridayPhi Kappa vs. Phi Kappa Alpha.Phi Slgnm Kappa vb. Sigma Phi Epsilon. MondayTau Del Da Phi vs. Alpha Tau Oniogh. lhota XI vu. Beta Slgma Rho.
TuesdayMcGill Hall vb. Slgma Alpha Epsilon Scobcir Hall vs. Junior Architects. WednesdayBeta Thota PI vs. Slgma Nu.Welch Hall vs. Lambda Chi Alpha.
PLEBE NETSTERS 
OPEN SEASON
PLEBE TRACKERS 
MEET UNION HIGHG
ET into this shaving cream "blurb" con' test, men! Who are yon forWalt or 
Bill? Palmolive or Colgates?
Weve discovered that men are rabid on 
the subject of shaving creams. Just try to tell 
a Colgate user theres anything better! Or try 
to convert a Palmolive user to anything else. 
Youll soon find out!
These are the two leading sellers among 
all shaving creams. Think of thatin a field 
of 176 competing brands! What we want to 
know iswhy do you like^Palmolive? Or why 
do you swear by Colgates? Tell us!
Hence this little contest. Theres money 
in itlots of money. Get some of it! Help 
Walt out. Or help Bill out. Notice the two 
empty blurb spaces in the picture at the 
right. In ONE of these spaces (or on a sep
arate sheet of paper) write what youd say in 
favor of Palmolive-or what youd say in favor 
of Colgates, Write it now! And note! Men
tion your dealers name. Then if you win, 
hell win a prize, too.
Come on you shavers-Get in on 
this $25,000 argument
Walt wants you Palmolive users to say your say. 
Bill says "Stick with me, youJColgate users. If you 
dont use either, start now and take a shot at this real 
money. And, dont forget, give your dealers name!
The tennis season will he officially inaugurated this Tuesday 
when Coach Hoovers Plcbcs en
gage Mt. Lebanon High School on 
foreign soil. The Tartan nctmcn 
will he handicapped by lack of. 
practice, for the courts have not 
yet been put in playing shape, but 
the squad has been working out 
regularly in the gym. Coach Hoo
ver could give no indication of 
what his lineup would be. On Fri
day the freshmen again leave on 
short jaunt, this time to Kiskl.
The Varsity docs not play its 
opening match until April 22 when 
they meet Duquesnc on the Bluffs 
courts. The squad is expected to 
get out on the clay early this week, 
at which time Coach Hoover will 
try to select his varsity combina
tion for the season. Material is un
usually plentiful this year, and a 
banner season is expected.
Froh Defeat Peabody 66-33 
in Opening ContestPI DELTA EPSILON
(Continued from Page One) 
club plan for assessing students 
for all publications,, and creation 
of a committee ^o prepare informa*- 
tion showing the effectiveness and 
necessity for advertising in school 
publications.,
Survey at the conference showed 
that practically every school pre
sent had a larger activities fee 
than assessed at Carnegie. In ad
dition the conference 'recommended 
the payment for school 3rear books 
by assessments at semester regis
tration.
The freshman trackstcrs trek to 
Turtle Crock next Saturday for a 
meet with Chick Coopers Union 
High school outfit. Union is one 
of the Plebcs annual foes who 
can be depended upon to give a 
good account of themselves, althought Tech usually manages to 
win. The coming meet will afford 
the freshmen their first test away 
from home and should tax them to 
the limit to win.
In conjunction with the varsity 
meet last Saturday, the Plebes de
feated Peabody High school in 
their opening contest by ,a 66 to 33 
score. Several promising yearlings 
were uncovered, including Perina, a 
sprinter, Ivopriva, a hurdler, and 
Brown and Piakowski in the weight 
events,
Perina was an easy winner in 
both the 100 and 220 and should be 
a big help in what are usually 
weak Tech events. Burke lived up 
to expectations and won the mile 
run handily. Kopriva proved to be 
a real find, winning the first two 
hurdle races of his career in a 
most commendable fashion. Brown 
and Piakowski showed great prom
ise in the shot and discus by finish
ing first and second respectively in 
both of these events. Dc Will and 
Fritz looked' good in the polevault.
Colgate UsersPalmolive Users
No other ships like these 3
TOURIST IS 
HIGHEST CLASS
M1NNEWASKA
MINNETONKA
PENNLAND
WEtTERNLAND
TO
THE OAKLAND 
BANK"Clan Directory
AKRON, OHIO
President: O. Hlxonbnugh, 860 TnckardDrive.Socrotnry-Trcaauror: T. B. Gotham, Mohawk Rubber Co.
ATLANTA', GA.President: John Nation, J. M. Tull Rubber & Supply Co., 2Sr> Marietta Street,Socrotary-Troasuror : A, F. Elchorn, Jolme- Mnnvlllo Co.
BUFFALO, N. Y.Prciildont: Arthur L. Book. 10(11 IQIllcottSqunro Building.
Vlco-PrunUlont: Horbort Tunitn.Scorotnry : II. S. Buoni, BOU Michigan Avo- nuo.Troiwuiror; JoBOphlno Solfinoli, HO Irvi HR Placo.
CANTON, OHIOPronldonbt Hurry B. Ltlloy. 17 Fifth Street, N..W.
Here are the prizes for each 
month464 in all!
For Best Colgate For Best PalmoGve 
blurbs blurbs
1st .... $500 1st ... . $500 
2nd. ... 125 2nd. . . . 125
CONTEST RULESOFFICERS
C. B. AYLESWORTH__Vice Pres.
R. J. MILLER_________Vice Pres.
C. W. EHNI-------Asst. Vico Pro.
F. W. COTTON_Aa.it. Vice Pres.
O. C. YOUNG_________Asst. Trcns.
ADAM ROSCOE_________Assi. 3ec.
EUROPEM
AIL your blurb with name 
and address to Contest 
Editors, Dept. G-3, P. O. Box 
1133, Chicago, Illinois.
The prize money (totaling 
$25,000) is divided into six sets 
of monthly prizes (each set total
ing $4200). At the end of each 
month prizes are awarded (see 
list at right) for the best "blurbs 
received during that month, as 
follows:
Feb. 29, $4200 Mar.31,$4200 
April 30, $4200 May 31, $4200 
June 30, $4200 July 31, $4200 
f Contest closes July 31, 1932}
Contest is open only to resi
dents of the United States and 
Canada. Employes of the manu
facturers and their families are hot 
eligible to compete.
In event of a tie, each tying
contestant will be awarded full 
amount of the prize tied for. De
cision of die judges shall be final.
Some bints to help you win 
Here are some facts about the 
worlds two largestsellingshaving 
creams-Colgates and Palmolive. 
Here are some of the reasons 
why men prefer these famous 
shaving creams.
PALMOLIVE
Multiplies itself in lather 250 rimes.
2. Softens the beard in one minute.
3. Maintains its creamy fullness for 10 
minutes.
4. Fine after-effects due to olive oil 
content.
COLGATES
1. Breaks up oil film that covers cach hair.
2. Small bubbles get down to the base 
of the beard, hold water against each 
hair at skin-line and soak it soft where 
the razor works.
3. Gives a close, skin-line shave due to 
small bubble action.
4-. Gives a lasting. 24-hoor shave.
Peoples* 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Sooroitiry-Troiinuror 1 Murk S. Downen, Oil 22ml Street, N. W.
CHICAGO. ILL.Frenldontt Homor C. Porto? SOD Mlehlgivu Avenue, Evminton, 111.
Round trip $172 (tip)BOARD OF ADVISERS
C. B. Aylcsworth 
J nines B. Clark 
John Dlmlluir
Win. E. Boniiwnngcr 
J. Roircr* Flnnncry
L. H. Gothoefcr 
C. H. Ivcrr
J. O. Miller 
R. J. Miller
John G. Pow
*! B. Sheets
The whole ship Kis yours. Tourist 
is the highest class carried. And 
what a joy it is to cross on them 1 
Until recendy tUcMtnncn'aska and Minnetonka were exclusively First 
Class Liners. Now, at rates 50? 
less than formerly, they arc yours 
exacdy as they were as First Class 
Liners. ThcPcrinlandand Wcstcn ilattd were formerly Cabin Class 
In regular weekly scrvicc to Southamp ton, Havre, and Antwerp.
Apply to your local agent, 
the tnrvel authority in your community... i
FRAA TENIYAU
Oakland Branch
Forbes & MeyranMen! A beautiful gift box 
containing generous trial 
tubes of both Colgates and 
Palmolive Shaving Creams, 
as well as other useful toilet 
products, is being distrib
uted. If you fail to get yours, 
ask the business manager 
of this paper why.
Rent the Latest Style Hand-Tailored Tuxedo Suit 
and Accessories From Us.
ALL SIZES PERFECT FIT
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Dny Phone: Residence Phone I
ATLANTIC 9595 EVERGLADE 0918
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEMSAH TGER MOCA
International Mercantile Marine Company 
196 Union Trust Bldg., Arcade, Pittsburgh
Intramural Softball League 
Bogins Wednesday 
Aftornoon At 5:30 P. M.1rARTANSPORTS ]PAGE
Varsity Trackers At Western 
Reserve, Saturday.
Plebes At Turtle Creek. t

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, 'APRIL1 19, 1932.THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN DEVOTED TO THE NIGHT STUDENTS.ITbe Carnegie IMait
ANNUAL EXHIBITION FRIDAY, APRIL 29
Looks as if we arc getting near 
the end of the regular term, as I 
noticed in last week's Tartan that 
the Supplementary Term schedule 
is offered for the summer night 
. term. I have been looking over 
the long array of subjects and am 
having a hard time to decide which 
subject offers the most leisure 
time so that I .may schedule it. 
. You know an Idle night student 
doesnt have time for much, else, 
so why waste time doing some
thing when you can get out of it. 
If I pick a hard subject, all my 
- summer eveningsuntil July 8 
will be taken up and I wont have 
any time .to look around, but if 
I pick an easy one, well, Ill have 
. lots of time to contemplate on the 
\ hotness of . the- night, the long 
hours of '-study and preparation, 
; etc., etc., which is the real reason 
night students attend classes. Any. how, it surely is a good opportu
nity for night students to make up 
schedules and all night students 
 who can attend these classes 
should do so, biit dont do as .I* do. * * * *
We are getting another break 
No advance in Night Tuition Fees 
Next FallWell, that surely is 
. good news. I was all set for the 
advance in price when we arc told 
that there will be no advance. We 
do get something good, after all. 
No, I didnt have anything to do 
with the change in plans, but I 
surely will take advantage of this 
change next fall when I come back, 
that, if I am permitted to register, 
because as an engineer I should 
have a superior intellect and'should 
not need more instruction, but then 
after all even engineers need to be 
told something once in a while, and 
I am here to be told to get busy. ' * * * *
The Repression number of Pup
pet was all it was advertised, price 
and all. I'll bet it was a sellout 
Judging from the number of sales
man who were selling the comic 
th/ere must be some sort of a compejtition among them. Ill bet on 
life- 'winner every time., Hope they 
jiu't the next number on the same 
basis', and then maybe Ill buy two 
copies. Its a big idea to, give a 
bargain once in a while, and Pup.pctVas due for some sort of con
cession. -* * * * 
Quite a number of things have 
been lost on the campus, that is, 
if you can believe the notices which 
have been appearing in the campus 
weekly from time to time. What's 
the matter? Can't they hold on
to their property? Strange, I dont 
lose anything. Ill bet the lost and 
found department is just full of 
things which have been lost and 
found. Sometime, that is, when I 
find time, I am going down to the 
basement and look over the trinkets 
which have been turned in.
1932 THISTLE
Subscriptions for the 1932 num
ber of Thistle, the college annual 
published by the study body arc 
being takeni The price is $4. for
the night students. These subscrip
tions should be sent in at once in 
order that copies may be reserved, 
 as only a limited number of This
tles. have been printed. Subscrip
tions can be sent in to the Night 
Student Council, Box 137, C. I. T., 
marked for The Night -Editor.
SPECIAL PERMANENT
(Guaranteed Wave)
$2-50
GUARANTEED 
UGENE WAVE 
I $4.00
Finger Wave, Marcel,Pfl" WM----F1El
so Appointments Necessariylaigh att
BEAUTY SALON
Hiland 0420921 TNN AVE. 
i Next to 
! A SURE FOUNDATION (
j One of the safest foundations j 
j on which to build your finan- | 
| cial independence is a savings j 
| account. Systematic saving, j 
| begun while you are in col- j 
j lege, will pave the way for a j 
j successful future. Our Say- j 
| ings Accounts pay liberal in- j 
I lerest compounded semi-an- J 
j nually.
i # j I Mellon National Bank j
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Supplementary Term
During the Supplementary Term, beginning May 9, courses will be offered, as stated on pages 33, 34, 112, and 113 of the 1931-32 catalog of Night Courses, in the College of Engineering and the College of Industries. In the College of Fine Arts one subject, An-502, will,.be offered.
Particular attention is called to E-43 and to Cn-127. E-43 Physics III is given only in the Supplementary Term, is given only every third year, and is required for the bachelors degree in engineering courses. Cn-127 Elementary English Literature is likewise offered only in the Supplementary Term and only every third year; it is offered for students who wish to secure additional credit in English to apply toward the degree admission requirements.
All subjects are scheduled May 9, to July 8, inclusive, unless other' wise indicated.Registration will be held during the week of May 2-6 between 7:00 and 9:00 and on Monday, May '9, between 6:30 and 7:15 in the Registrars office. In'registering, students should present their original registration receipt card. Students who withdraw the first week will receive a refund of tuition fee less $2.00; no refunds are made after the first week. Subjects with less than twelve registrants may be withdrawn.Any student who wishes information or advice concerning his plans for the supplementary term should call at the Registrars office.COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Students following a degree should schedule one of the following subjects, in accordance with information on pages 52-55 and 104-109 of the 1931-32 catalog of Night Courses: C-109,i CrllO, C-352, C-401, C-402, E-20, E-22, E-43, E-276, or Shops (1-7^0, 1-740, 1-760, I-7S0). E-43,Cn-127 and Shops are given only every third year; C-352, E-22 and E-276, in alternate years.The work of the first term of C-109, C-110, C-352, C-401, C-402, E-20 and E-22 will be given from May 9to June 8; that of the second term, from June 8 to July 8. The w;ork of the first term of C-54 will extend from May 9 to June 22; that of the second term, from June 22 to August5. The fees marked * include a $5.00 laboratory deposit or materials fee.I. First Year Subjects C-51 Algebra, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 51 ($12.)C-52 Trigonometry, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 52 ($12.)E-176b Gen. Chemistry, rec., 2nd term, M. F., 7:30-9:45, E. H. 215 ($9.) E-176b Gen. Chemistry, lab., 2nd term, W., 7:30-10:30, E. H., 215, 214 ($11.)*II. Second Year SubjectsC-53b An. Geom. & Calc. I, 2nd term, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. I-I 205 ($12.)
E-41b Physics I, rec., 2nd term, M. F., 7:30-9:45, E. H. 209, 212 ($9.)E-41b Physics I, lab., 2nd term, W., 7:30-10:30, E. I-I. 102, 107 ($6.)C-401 Drwg .& Dcsc. Geom. I, both terms, M. W. F., 7:00-10:30, Ind. 345 ($26.)*III. Upper Year Subjects
E-20 Mechanics I, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 50 ($12.) E-22 Mechanics III, both terms, lyl. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 55, ($12.) E-43 Physics III, M. W. F., 7:30-10:30, E. H. 209, 211, 204 ($18.') E-276 Surveying I, M. W. F., 7:30-10:30 and Sat., 1:30-4:30, May 9 to June 11, E. H. 60 ($12.)
C-54 Analytic Geom. & Calc. II both terms, M.. W. F., 7:30-9:30, May 9 to Aug. 5; E. H. 207 (Ind. 210 after July 8) ($18.)
C-402 Drwg. & Dcsc. Geom. II, both terms, M. W. F., 7:00-10:30, Ind. 346 ($26.)*
1-720 Machine Practice, F. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 107 ($6.)1-740 Forge, W., 7:30-10:30, Ind. 7 ($6.)1-760 Foundry, Tu., 7:30-10:30, Ind. 23 ($6.)1-780 Patternmaking, M, 7:30-10:30, Ind. 232 ($6.) ,
IV. Elective Subjects C-109 or C-110 English I, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, Ind. 131 A ($12.)
C-352 Economics II, both terms, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, Ind. 255 A ($12.)V. Special Subjects 
E-574 Fuels, Combustion, and Stokers, Tu. Th., 7:30-9:30, May 10 to June 9, M. H. 103 ($8.)
Cn-127 Elem. English Literature, M. W. F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. 71 ($12.) (For entrance credit.)
COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIES I. For Students in Vocational Courses:
For Students who arc planning to complete one' of the four-year courses leading to a certificate, the following subjects in mathematics, physics, and mechanical drawing arc offered. In each subject the work of the first term will be given from May 9 to June 8; the work of the second term, from June 8 to July 8. Students may register for the work of either term or for the work of both terms. The tuition fee for the Avork of both terms in any subject is $12; f<* the work of one 
term, $6. Each subject is scheduled Monday, Wednesday, Fridav 7:30-9:30.Cn-21 Vocational Mathematics (E. II. 69.)Cn-23 Elementary Algebra (E. H. 70.)Cn-25 Elementary Trigonometry (Ind. 340 A.) 'Cn-26 Plane Geometry A (E. H. 120.)
You11 want to get upfor tourist classes!
Mortarboards are shuffleboards... 10 oclocks are deck-sports 
... 5 o'clocks are tea dances... or sleep through your 11 oclock 
in a deck chair. Youll -want to stay up for masquerades, 
bierabends, jollifications, dances, concerts, dinners with de
licious food, bridge tournaments, or doing absolutely nothing 
and doing it very well. Sign up now! Its schooners aweigh 
to Europe., .in the Tourist Class of Lloyd Express and Cabin 
Liners...and the "tuition fee is extremely modest in price.
ENGLAND  FRANCE  IRELAND  GERMANY 
*Go abroad to study this summer at one of the great foreign 
universities. The Lloyd will take you there!
32 to 52 Day Tours
The zest of travel and the bright eyes of adventure! 5 to 7 
countries in Europe.. .great cities, old-world scenes,and local 
color...of Germany, France, England, Italy, Switzerland, 
Austria, Holland, Belgium, Czecho-Slovakia. Convenient 
sailings on Lloyd liners. A remarkable bargain arranged by 
Student Pleasure Tours, Inc., and the Open Road. The price 
includes round-trip passage, hotels, meals, sightseeing, trans
portation, baggage, and other incidentals. $195 up.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD
57 BROADWAY  NEW YORK CITY 
407 WOOD STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
Telephone Court 3320, or your local agent
Competition For Foot
ball Ticket Designs
A competition for football ticket 
designs, open to all regularly regis
tered day or night students of C. I. 
T., was announced by the Athletic 
Council. Complete- information re
garding the competition is posted on 
the bulletin boards in every school. 
Prizes are offered for winning con
testants.
This competition will undoubtedly 
create much interest among night 
students because it affords an op
portunity for everyone to enter a 
ticket design. Searching for ideas is 
always absorbing work and the pos
sibility of winning a prizeshould be 
an added incentive.
Sample tickets may be secured from 
vthc Athletic. Council . in the Gym
nasium building. All those who con
template entering the competition 
should do so at once as all designs 
arc due on May 2.
E.
No Advance In Night 
Tuition Fees Next Fall
The announcement recently received 
from the administration office that 
there will be no advance in the 1932-r 
33 night tuition fees should be 
pleasant news to all night students 
who plan to return next fall.
It had been outlined in the 1931- 
32 catalogue of night courses that 
there wotild be an increase in the 
tuition, fees next year starting with 
the September registration. The plan 
has now been abandoned, and the 
fees for next year will remain un
changed.
The attention of all night students 
is 'called to this change in plans and 
you arc requested to relay this news 
to any former night students so that 
they will know of the change and 
when they register in. the fall-for the 
1932-33 classes they will pay their 
fees at the old tuition rate instead 
of the new one which had been con
templated.
E-99 Vocational Physics (E. H. 111.)In-101 Mechanical Drawing A (Ind. 319.)In-102 Mechanical Drawing B (Ind. 319.)In-103 Mechanical Drawing C (Ind. 319.)II. For students in the General Course:For each of the following subjects, except Cn-28, the calendar dates, schedule hours, , and tuition fees are the same as those of the subjectslisted above. 1 Cn-28 will continue for a period pf thirteen weeks, May9 to Aug. 5 the work of the first term will be given from May 9_to June 22; that of the second term, from June 22 to August 5. The tuition fee for both terms of Cn-28 is $18; for either term alone, $9.Cn-29 Plane Geometry A, same as Cn-26, .listed above.Cn-127 Elementary English Literature (E. H; 71.)E-97 Elementary Physics A (E. H. 111.)E-98 Elementary Physics B (E. H. 100.)E-97-98 Elementary Physics A-B, 1st term, same as E-97.E-97-98 Elementary Physics, A-B, 2nd term, same as E-98.Cn-28 Algebra B, May 9 to August 5 (Ind. 209.)COLLEGE OF FINE ARTSAn-502 Pictorial and Dcilorativc Design II, M. W. F., 7:00-10:00, May 9 to June 10, inclusive, Arts 302 ($10.)ROSCOE M. IIIRIG,Director of Night Courses.
Always OpenTables For Ladies
5C CABIN GRILL 5C
5'
E TAKE SOME ALONG
V  SANDWICHES 
E HAMBURGER, CHEESE, FRIED HAM, 
R __________L1VERWURST__________
Y DELICIOUS HOME MADE PIES
T Pure Orange Juice Pilsner on Draught
u _______ Root Beer on Draught __________
i Pastries Cookies
Hot Chocolate Coffee With Pure Cream
N ______________AND OTHER ITEMS______________
G (2) Convenient Stores (2)
974 LibertyAve. 3712 Forbes St.
(DOWNTOWN) (OAKLAND)
^EVERYTHIN
DIDJA NOTICE
THAT our campus has some 
people so absent minded that they 
even forget to get off the street 
cars when they come to school.
THAT a certain Industries 
prof values the scandal issue at 
fifty cents per.
THAT the Arts school wash
rooms have towels when theres 
no soap or vice-versa.
THAT this week will see tlje 
ambitions of some night school 
, males finally realized.
THAT the depression Puppet 
went over with a bang. Lets
have more at that price.
THAT the social calendar 
holds only one more shin-dig
for us and then its all over.
THAT with night school soon 
over and daylight saving time 
just around the corner w.cll have 
more time to think of 1 our
troubles.
THAT thats that and Ill be 
scenya!
NU SIGMA ALPHA 
FRATERNITY TO HOLD 
DANCE APRIL 23
Honorary to Issue Call 
For Pledges During 
Evening
Plans .are rapidly nearing comple
tion for the annual spring dance 
which Nu Sigma 'Alpha Fraternity
holds each year onN the campus.
April 23 is the date selected for
the honorary s dance, and Thistle Hall 
has been 'reserved. The dance will 
be informal, commencing at 9:00 p. 
in. and continuing until 12, midnight.
Will Ryshanek and his orchestra 
has been engaged to furnish the 
music for the occasion. This group 
of musicians is one of the best 
orchestras which has been playing for 
functions on the campus during the 
present year and . the committee is 
fortunate in being able to schedule
them for this dance.
Invitations to members, guests and 
friends have been sent out and from 
the response to these invitations, the 
indications arc that the dance will 
be well attended. The dance will be 
an open dance, and all students on 
the campus arc welcome to attend the 
function. The assessment will be $1 
per couplc.
During the coursc of the dance a 
call will be' made to several night 
students whom the honorary wishes 
to honor at this time and these men 
will be pledged to the fraternity,
ANNUAL EXHIBITION
The Annual Exhibition held by 
Carnegie Institute of Technology is 
scheduled for Friday, April 29. This 
is the time of the year when the 
work of the students and the work 
done at the institute is placed on 
display and is always a very popular 
event of the college year. Thousands 
of visitors come to the cHmptis to 
see the exhibitions during the coursc 
of the evening.
Students and faculty members who 
wish to have invitations sent to 
friends to attend the exhibition are 
asked to leave their requests with 
W. N. James in the News Bureau 
in Administration Hall, next to the 
Night School Office.
NOTICE
All Crow Members, Supervisors, Team Captains, and Student subscription salespeople who wish to avail themselves of tho opportunity for free scholarship made possible through the 
courtesy of the Loading Mngajno Publisher's again this year aro rcqusted 
to apply io tho national organiser, M. 
Anthony Stelle, Jr., Box 2-14, San Juan, Porto Rico, stating qualifications fully.
DAYLIGHT SAVING 
SCHEDULE STARTS 
MONDAY, APRIL 25
Starting next Monday evening and 
continuing for the balance of the 
school year, in both regular night 
terms and supplementary terms, the 
classes will operate on the daylight 
sivitig time, which means that. time 
will be advanced one hour. Please 
make note of this change to day
light saving time and arrange, to at
tend classes accordingly.
C.S.EDMAN
Printer
6470 Monitor Street
STETSON "[f EXHIBIT
SHOWING
SPORTS OR BUSINESS SUITS * 
TUXEDOS AND TOPCOATS : : : jL ^J.50
A WIDE RANGE OF IMPORTED
AND DOMESTIC FABRICS IN ALL $0 C
THE LEADING SHADES : 7 : : : JL. V,J.50
CORRECTLY DESIGNED AND _ _ 
CAREFULLY TAILORED TO YOUR $ V \ 
INDIVIDUAL MEASURE : : : : : *J A) .50
-ATSKIBO INN
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, 
APRIL 25 AND 26TH
"Nationally "Justly 
Knoji'n" Fatnoiis
TAILORS TO COLLEGE MEN FROM COAST TO
.
COAST
esterfield
S vnTme BsMMd,, A prd2h 3o-aFFo (i
...ALL YOU COULD ASK FOR

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 19, 1932.
SGr (gamEgitan
PHONE MAYPLOWER 2600 
AFTER OFFICE HOURS CALL
Editor In Chief.
Pabllnhtd once evorr week during the collctta year by undergraduate* of Cnrneitie Intitute of Technology. Entered in the Pittnburgh I'oat Office ai second-class matter.
THE STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF____
BUSINESS MANAGERMANAGING EDITOR
PLAID EDITOR_______
NEWS EDITOR________
1_______Harry D. Kolb
_______Edward Steiner
_________Mary Hauser
-Edward E. McDonald 
__________Nancy Sloan
EXCHANGE EDITORASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Vincent McBride - Zorelda Mazza Assignment Editor_Howard Maxwell
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Roy Grant Betty Preller Julius Halpern Dolly Allison Harry Hower Ruth Phillips John Ladd Henrietta SteinbergChristine Leighou Marjorie DoughertyAlumni Editor-------Mary TownsendCartoonist.---------------Edna Pearson
BUSINESS STAFF 
Junior Managers j "sTahl"^* 
Assistant,--------------------W. Waldman
CIRCULATION STAFFManager______!-----------W. FinglassA. Prycc-Jones S. Feldman C. Chadwick J. MichclsonE. Schleuskner
ATHLETICS
Editor_____________J. MichaelsonWoman's Editor__Elizabeth Lillcy
Assistants.J. Bronson G. Myers "J. Lowes f. Halferty
____________:______Gertrude Novak
PLAID STAFF
News ditor-----------J. H. SansoncttiH. E. McGannon Frank Cassel
A. N. Evans
REPORTERS
J. Hiltz J. Drury S. Dancoff J. Adams . Stankey I. Williamson A. Henzi J. Carr J. Livingston 
V. Kloos V. Cooper T. Shelley G. Breakstone 
Ii. Schwarz E. Gamble J. S. Minnotte L. Conlin
R. Saxton J. Ritzel E. McCormick G. Rose S. Williams M. Griffin E. Sherman J. Henderson P. Paulus T. Cacchione M. MalakoffA. Carnvale
B. MoreheadC. Mandross B. Cimmuto R. CohenA. Ladd
TYPISTS
Sylvia Lyons Ann WardenLucille Jacobs Ann KaufmanMarian McNary
The Student Enters a New World
Recently a dean said that students of this country were 
not expected to be men of understanding- of the world 
affairs. A Latin American author declared that students 
of the States were as different from the men who attended 
foreign universities as engineers and poets. On many sides 
the regard for opinions originating on the campuses of our 
universities has been akin to mild amusement. Presidents 
of colleges do not bother to follow their campus newspaper 
in an honest endeavor to interpret opinions from the group 
they govern.
Apparently student opinion, which on a theoretical basis 
may be declared most valuable, has failed to gain public 
regard. We have our numerous attempts on every campus 
to expression on affairs beyond' the realms of proms and 
athletics. But have the. numerous model conventions of 
disarmament and politics; with their subsequent telegrams ' 
to the President, declaring that in three meetings they have 
decided to limit world armaments, gained respect for their 
authors? The pilgrimages of students to Geneva, and to the 
mine riots in Kentucky attracted attention, but only such 
attention as accorded the recent outbreak's of college editors 
guilty of sensationalism.
The public has declined1 to listen with other than idle 
curiosity to the awakening of the politically conscious 
among our undergraduates. The public has showli good 
judgment! For while the present iday student makes up 
with enthusasism for his lack of experience, he becomes so 
engrossed in the realms of righteousness that he becomes 
a splendid tool in the hands of the leaders of, the highly 
organized, ultra-radical, groups which today are only too 
eager to sponsor and direct student thought. Jhst as the 
conscientious objectors to war, prohibition, and armaments, 
are often sincere theorists, both groups are being exploited 
by .groups with ideals not so altruistic.
Encouraging student thought is desirable and necessary. 
But why can it not come as spontaneous agreement within 
the group without the silly resolutions and telegrams, and 
without the guidance of outside interests. The school re
serves the right to censor its own publicity and can control 
the more rabid utterances such as appear from the college 
editors. Columbia was not a fault for preventing further 
undesirable publicity in her recent'disagreement with stu
dent outbursts. AVithout subscribing to the utterances of 
her paper, one marvels at the exceptionally poor judgment 
of her administration in arousing the proponents of civil 
rights. As a result of poor tact a cause which long since 
would have been forgotten has assumed the aspects of martyrdom.
Awakening student opinion to the realities of the out
side world is desirable but dangerous. On the basis of 
relative merits it is doubtful if the model leagues and other 
possibilities for fostering distorted conceptions are as ef
fective in enlivening current events and broadening college 
thinking as is the average college debate. K.* * * *
Who Does Your Thinking?
For four years the faculty have been doing our think
ing. TJiat was the remark made by an engineering senior 
before a representative group of faculty ajicf students of this 
school the other day. It implies directly that those whose 
.sole business it is to teach young men and women to think 
for themselves have failed, and also that those whose sole 
business for the last foifr years has been to learn to think 
have simply wasted that opportunity.
That is a serious accusation to make, and yet many of 
the students on thiscampus agree with that student. For 
.four years they have gone to lectures, read books, prepared 
problems and papers according to the rules in the manuals 
and the idiosyncracies of their instructors. For four years 
they have assiduously taken notes and committed them to 
memory, have sat open-mouthed while the men up front 
glibly defined entropy or theorized about atomic concepts, 
elaborated upon the why of American civilization, dis
coursed upon obscure systems of philosophy, established set 
rules and forms for good literature.
The. argument may be advanced that Carnegie Tech is 
not a school for thinkers primarily, but a school for crafts
men. And yet it is supposed to be an institution of higher 
learning. What is higher learning if not deeper, more in
tense; original thinking? It is acknowledged that in this 
"school the student is required to work much harder and 
put in more time studying than the student at the average 
college or university. But the work he has to do does not 
require a very great effort of thoughtdifficult,, original, 
questioning thinking. That is done by the faculty and the 
writers of textbooks and manuals. The students only begin 
to think on graduation day. H.* * * *
Cast Your Vote Today
Today the presidents of the senates of the four colleges 
will be elected. These xoffices give representation on the 
Student Council, and accordingly those chosen should be 
the choice of the majority. Consequently, it is necessary 
that more students than have heretofore voted should cast 
their ballots. Indifference is the improper attitude toward 
elections.
In the past unnecessary antagonism has been caused 
by the ungentlemanly act of soliciting around the polls. 
All canvassing and campaigning should come to an end at 
the beginning of the election hour, and the students then 
permitted to cast their votes. undisturbed.
Be not disinterested! Cast your vote! G.
FROM THE FENCE
The Hash Houses
With April and the attendant Commons has met the emergency buckets, kettles and boilers to which leaks thru the roof. . . .The poor wait
resses at the Grill have to incessantly urge the patrons to move all the way down, please. They should teach a parrot to do* that little task. . 
-lunch room. . . .
rainy reason the with all available catch the hvat.er
. Skibo, the Beta
Here and There-The editor of this papers editorial on "How oid are you at 21 happened to coincide with his birthday. Holbrook of Pitt, and Finglass of Tech also claimed the honors of that day. . . . As a St. Louis undertakers daughter said of Will Hol
loway, Oh, lie may not be --------:-------- but boy,in the dark. ... A fellow dressed only in a towel was found prowling around Scobell Hall. He scampered into Boss. . . . Polly Hopkins got a big reception upon her first visit on campus.... Birch lasses get up at 7 Saturday morn'' to roller skate on Woodlawn. . . . The mens dorms were a haven to Hell Week Harrassed neophytes. . . . The Alpha Chi Alphas are sporting their new sweaters with big shields. ... In many colleges final exams are omitted for those taking the Carnegie Foundation exams. . . .* * , * *
Financial Experts
Fred Flaherty and Roy Powell united the Pi K A.s and Phi ICapps in a swimming party at Web-5 ster Hall last Saturday. Instead of making enough money for Carnival Week the young promoters lost money. They claim the only way they cansucceed at that rate is to have a lot of parties-----They have another plan for making money by selling such information as came their way that night when eight couples declined invitations.* * * *.
NotesIt seems that we have a monstrosity here at, Tech that would interest Barnum. The name Elide Schweitzer occurs in both the mens and. womens sections of the student directory. . . . Thad Lutz and his girl recently won a 15-pound ham as a dance prize/ They could have lots of ham and eggs if they had the eggs. . . . Tech was polutcd with school inarms last week. Some sort of conference or something. . . . Heard that these people with varying degrees of schnozzlcs would make good cherry pickers . They could hang onto a limb by their proboscis and pick cherries with both hands. . . . Sport shoes and a little gin seem to be all Stiperschnozzle needs to become a master 
of ceremonies.* * * *
Smart ?Try this on your friends. An Armour Tech junior turned 'tables on the faculty members y
giving them a quiz on- the following ten words: Battalion, rarefy, supersede, kimono, naphtha, paraffin, tranquillity, picnicking, sacrilegious, and liquor. Six was the greatest number spelled correctly'byany facutly member. Even a sophomore was ableto spell nine correctly....? * * *
Orange Blossoms
Congratulations, etc., are in order for some of our friends who have succumbed to the call of the wild and have visited justices of the peace or ministers. A1 Lundquist and Harriet Ossman have gone and done it. Bill Rishell and Marie Noir share troubles now. Harry Morris acquired a Ball (and chain). Whos next? ... .* * * *
Another Suggestion
The mail brings a suggestion^ The names of the students nominated for positions on the publications staffs should be made public thru the medium of the Tartan before they are submitted to the Student Council for approval. The Student Council has no way of checking up beforehand, and there is only the slightest possibility that they will detect even the grossest error in picking, the staffs. . . . Then a suggestion of the coincidence of the last two and the next two Puppet editors being D. V.s. Is the Puppet a Tech magazine or a D. V. monthly? Really, tho, maybe it is, their magazine because they started it and two were bounced out of school because of too zealous interest in the magazine. Another, Larry Stultz became a well-known illustrator as a result' of his Puppet work. Where were we?* * * *
The Ball
The Senior Ball has gone down (and how) in history. . . . Maestros Ryshanek and McGeorge were hanging around seeing how Biagini did it.. . . The music was good. Like the weather, firsthot then cold. . . . Plenty of elbow room foronce. . . . The new drapes that were promised were among the missing. . . . The hot cholocatesserved in the Rathskeller ane just that............Stocky
. Baker was surrounded by a flock of people. No doubt telling them about the next coal conference.. . . Lantham and Fawcett cruising around. . . . Real singing with the band, not crooning. . . .* * . * *
Flashes
One of our ladies, Betty Koch, was running around blowing a birclie the other day. . . . An ancient Phord coup parked by Industries .had a drawing board substituting for a broken window.... Hardy, of Hale & Hardy, w a s sneaking thru Morewood Heights on his -way home from a date when a a man - eating Spitz set on him. The dog kept a pantscuff as a souvenir. Three lasses were so over- ,joyed at the return of fair weather Friday noon that they scampered about1 playing tag with one another on their 'way from the Inn to school....
CLUB NOTES
Citmus Club
The Citmus Club will hold a 
dinner in the Commons Annex at 
5:30 Monday evening, April < 25. 
After the dinner officers for the 
coming year will be elected. All 
members are invited to attend, for 
an entertainment program has been 
arranged.
Phi Mu Alpha
Phi Mu Alpha, national musical 
honorary, will h&ld its regular 
meeting Thursday evening, April 
24, at: 9:30 at the Pi Kappa Alpha 
fraternity. The members will make 
their final decision concerning the 
pledges at this meeting. Spring 
initiation, which will be formal, 
will probably be held during the 
week of May 1 to 8. A definite 
date will be chosen Thursday.
The pledges of Phi Mu Alpha 
are: Edward MacDonald; John
Powers; Anthonjr Noce; John Dippold; Karl Forsmark; Paul W. 
Koennemund and Theodore Smiley.
The students at COLGATE de
cided that the admission price to a 
certain nearby theater was entirely 
too high for the entertainment of
fered, so they unanimously decided 
to boycott the movie-house. ^Nccdless to say the boycott was short
lived and resulted in the matinee 
price being reduced to 25 cents 
and the evening price to 35 cents. 
All of which makes the cost of a 
date cheaper.
A student at DREXEL tells the 
story of a fraternity brother who 
suffered from the measles, love, 
college professor, Saturday morn
ing classes, and never turned a 
hair. He was bald.
Rushing Systems 
At Other Schools
(Continued from Page One) 
ing automatically ceases to be a 
pledge.The rushee is responsible for his 
presence at his first date. Any 
rushee arriving late at the school 
must fill all of his dates _ before 
lie can pledge. Fraternities are 
responsible for its rushees pres
ence at the house of the fraternity 
having the next date, at the begin
ning of the date.For infractions of rushing and 
pledging rules, the guilty houses 
lose their social privileges for one 
semester.Northwestern University 
The rushing rules at Northwest
ern University arc based on a 
gentlemens agreement between 
fraternities. Rushing is permitted 
at any time of the year, whether 
school is in session or not, and: 
thcre arc not restrictions as to the 
entertainment of students or pros
pective students. New students en
tering in the fall cannot be pledged 
before 9 p. m. of the Sunday pro
ceeding registration week. After 
that time, each fraternity decides 
upon its own pledging rules. All 
plcdgeships are considered binding, 
and any man severing his pledge 
cannot be pledged to another fra
ternity for three months.
Ohio State University 
At Ohio State University, rush
ing may take place at any time, 
but concentrated rushing is held 
during the week preceding the 
opening of school. No one is -eli
gible to be pledged until he has 
matriculated in the University. 
Official pledging is always done 
the opening day of school. No 
one is considered a pledge until 
he has signed a pledge card which 
is signed by the president of the 
fraternity to which he pledges and 
is stamped in the Dean of Mens 
office. If a pledge voluntarily 
terminates his pledgeship and there 
is no. objection on' the part of the 
fraternity to which he is pledged, 
he may pledge to another fratern
ity at the end of seven days,
A Pledge Registration Bureau 
was installed last year under the 
guidance of the Deans office, and 
it has more than fulfilled the fraternitys expectations.
Ohio University 
Freshmen at Ohio University 
may be pledged any time after reg
istration. There is no official rush
ing period. A man is not consid
ered a pledge of any fraternity 
until a pledge card signed by the 
pledge is filed with the Dean of 
Men. If a pledge is broken, the 
student is not eligible to pledge to 
another fraternity until five months 
after the date the pledge is broken.
University of Pittsburgh 
Preferential bidding and deferred 
rushing go hand in hand in making 
for better fraternities at the Uni
versity. This statement sums up 
the rushing system . used at the
First Church of Christ 
SCIENTIST CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGHSUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening Testimony Meeting 
At 8;00 P. M.
University of Pittsburgh. The rush
ing is under the supervision of 
Dean.of Men! The system employ
ed is very similar to the system 
at Carnegie, with certain important 
variations.
The rushing period this year last
ed for eight days, about the same 
ditte that Carnegies period was 
held. During the rushing period, 
each fraternity may not hold more 
than four rushing events' any 
event which lasts throughout an 
evening or an equivalent period of 
time. Before rushing season, all 
fraternities must' file'with the office 
of the Dean of -Men a schedule 
of proposed rushing events. All 
events must be approved by the 
Dean. After the termination of 
the rushing period, a period of 
silence extends for six days, dur
ing which iio fraternity man shall 
talk to a newly-registered student.
All bids are issued by the prefer
ential system through the office 
of the Dean of Men. Before 5 p. 
m. of the last day of rushing, all 
fraternities submit sealed bids to 
the Dean of Men. These bids are 
issued to the ffeshmen as soon as 
possible. During the period of si
lence a rushee may make known 
to the Dean of Men the fraternity 
of his choice. At the end of the 
silence period, the Dean forwards 
to each fraternity the accepted and 
rejected bids.
Syracuse University
Rushing at Syracuse University 
begins about the middle of Octo
ber and extends for four days, 
after which there is a two-day 
period of silence. It is not def
initely ' stated in the rushing and
WANTED
A STUDENT CRUISE 
DIRECTOR
W
E want one student in this univer
sity to organize wr-tour groups. 
Generous financial return to the man 
who qualifies. Also opportunity for inter
esting travel.
Cruises are made in giant Pan Ameri
can multi-motored air-liners. Cool, luxu
rious travel in the upper air at 117 miles 
an hour. The Westlndies, Central Ameri
ca, South America out of the tourist 
season, in all their native charm. Night 
life in gay Cuba. The drums of magic 
Haiti, throbbing in the distant hills. 
Panama, crossroads of the world. The 
ancient Mayan ruins at Chichen Itza in 
Yucatan. Mexico City, that mile-high 
metropolis where bullfights still flourish. 
Or Rio de Janeiro, sparkling Bucnoa 
Aires and Montevideo, Peru, Chile. To 
these exotic places and a hundred others 
in the 3 0 countries of Latin America cov
ered by Pan American, largest air trans
port system in the world, on 20,000 miles 
of airways.
This year these student group tours 
will be offered at 40% reduction from 
standard passenger rates, between June 1 
and September 1. For example: this dis
count brings air trips from Miami to 
Havana down to $16.80. From our Texas 
terminal to Mexico City, $36.60. From 
Miami to Panama, with overnight stop 
at Jamaica, luncheon stops in Cuba and 
Colombia, only $108. Same student re
ductions to any point on our lines.
If you feel that you have the personal
ity, the social position and collegiate 
standing to qualify ps representative of 
our company on th3 campus, write im
mediately. Please give full particulars as 
to your personal qualifications and re
sponsibility. Address: Mr. V. E. Chcnea, 
General Traffic Manager, Pan American 
Airways System, 122 East 42d Street, 
New York, N. Y.
pledging rules when bidding shall 
take place; presumably bids may 
be offered any time after rushing 
season starts. No contact, other 
than conversation on the campus 
about matters hot pertaining to 
fraternity matters, is permitted be
tween freshmen and fraternity men 
before rushing season opens.
The new. staff will publish the 
last two issues of this years Pup
pet, special Spring Carnival Num
ber, which will be issued May 3, and 
the Commencement Number, which 
will be on sale May 24.
The smoke 
you like... is 
the smoke she 
likes for you!
I like to see a man smoke a pipe!
Youve heard your own girl say it, 
perhaps. Youre sure to hear it wherever 
girls get together.
They puff away 
at our cigarettes. 
But they like to see 
us have a go at the 
 strong,silentmans 
smokea com
panionable, timeproven pipe.
/ There is someShe likes you to smoke thing satisfying 
a pipe about a pipe. Its a
slow, reflective, hard-thinking smoke 
or a calm, relaxing, restful smoke. 
The hunters smoke, the fishermans 
smoke, the engineers smokea mans 
smoke, through and through.
And pipe smokers who know their 
fine tobaccos tell you theres no blend 
quite like the fine 
selected burleys of 
Edgeworth the 
favorite tobacco in 
42 out of 50 leading 
colleges.
Do try Edgeworth. Per
haps you wall 
like it as well as 
most men seem A 
to. Edgeworth is at your dealers. Or 
send for free sample if you wish. Ad
dress Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d 
Street, Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old burleys, 
with its natural savor enhanced by Edge
worths distinctive 
and exclusive elev
enth process. Buy 
Edgeworth any
where in two forms 
Edge wo rth ReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All  
sizes, 15 pocket 
package to $1.50 
pound humidor rin.
Y. M. C. A. Plans
Outing For May
Today at 11:30, the Cooks For
est Outing Program  committee 
will meet in the Commons Annex 
to discuss proposed conference 
plans.
The committee consists of three 
faculty members, Professors Guild, 
Kirk-Patrick, and Risedorph, and 
three of the general cabinet mem
bers, Messers Horning, Kuhn, and 
Ladd.
According to Mr. Davis, Y 
secretary, arrangements have been 
made for a party of - 35, including 
the Committee of Management and 
the freshmen and general cabinets 
to attend the outing. The groupwili occupy an exclusive summer 
resort on the Allegheny River 
which can accommodate about 50 
people. Any student interested in 
making the trip . should . report in 
the Y office as soon as possible.
Plans have been made to leave 
for the outing Friday afternoon, 
May 6. The program will be in
augurated with a dinner that eve
ning and activities will extend till 
after dinner on Sunday.
(Continued from Page One) 
out the United States, Nu Chapter 
at Carnegie being founded January 
1, 1922. Professor Daniels and Dr. 
Fettke are honorary members.
At the last meeting Theta Tau 
moved to accept the offer from na
tional headquaters that the next con
vention of the fraternity be held at 
Car-negie.
8 0 9 
LibertyCMKA
1 to 11 D. m.admission
351
Wook Beginning Monday, April 18
The Picture All Pittsburgh Is 
Anxious to See and to Hear! 
Tho Drama of Russia's Wild Children
ROAD TO LIFE
A Soviet Russian Talkie 
vjith TITLES IN ENGLISH
" . . Just, as they arc pictural here, 
So I myself saw them in Runnia." 
___________ THEODORE DREISER.
As a result of embarrassment to\ 
the school officials, the intcrfraternity council at GEORGIA 
TECH has passed a resolution to 
the effect that all horse play and 
errands conncctcd with fraternity 
Hell Week initiations shall be con
fined to the premises of the indi
vidual fraternity house. Thats a 
break for the neophytes.
Students at the UNIVERSITY 
OF OKLAHOMA have drawn up 
a petition against compulsory mili
tary training and have supported 
it by refusing to enroll for the 
college military course. Those few 
boys who desire it have been told 
to Go east, where men are men.
THETA TAU GIVES
PLEBE DANCE
(Continued from Page One) 
dock, chairman, Lucille Ividwell, 
Margaret Parsons, and Helen Welfer; publicity, Veronica Kloos, chair
man, Gertrude Borie, Anne Ladd, 
and Ruth Gustafson; tickets, Cath
erine Conti, chairman, Ruth Schmelz, 
Agnes Cancelliere, Frances Hall, 
Martha Moss, Miriam Busch, May 
Duncan, Margaret Walters, Mary Lou 
Lowndes, and Mary Jane Atkinson.
MANY DEPARTMENTS
(Continued from Page One) 
Delta Skull, national mens jun
ior honorary, voted at their meet
ing last Wednesday, to assume 
charge of the information desks 
for the night. Nine desks will be 
located throughout the different 
schools, with a representative of 
Delta Skull in charge at each, pre
pared to direct ^visitors around the 
campus. v
WILLIAM LAZARUS
(Continued from Page One) 
Miss Wholcv, who will be the 
new Literary Editor, is in the De
partment of Home Economics, Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College, 
a former Cwen, treasurer of the 
Margaret Morrison Senate, and a 
candidate for president of the 
Margaret Morrison Senate.
Miss Pearson is in the Depart
ment of Painting and Decorating, 
a member of Gamma Gamma 
Gamma social sorority, Alpha Chi 
Alpha, womens journalistic honor
ary, the Intersorority Council, and 
is the Tartan cartoonist.
The newly appointed Advertising 
Manager, Mr. Fox, is in the De
partment of Works 'Management, 
College of Industries, and a mem
ber of Pi Kappa Alpha social fra
ternity.
Coming Thurs.-Nancy Carroll In Wayward7?
Hello, Hawaii
\r
I
Bringing Hawaii within speaking distance 
of the United States is one of the latest 
achievements of the Bell System in its pro
gram of telephone service extension.
Five years ago the United States had tele
phone connection only with Canada, Cuba, 
and the Mexican border. Since then, Bell 
engineers have so developed radio telephony 
that handling calls to Europe, South America,
Australia, Bermuda, Samoa, and Hawaii is 
daily routine. Today more than 31,000,000 
telephones [can be reached  approximately 
92/o of all the telephones in the world! )
Making the telephone practically world
wide in reach promotes understanding be
tween nations. It has far reaching effects com
mercially and politically. Thats what puts 
the thrill into such Bell System pioneering.
BELL SYSTEM
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
