jlen DJU6t be at liberty to 
ay in prut whatever they 
have in mind to say, pro
vided it wrongs no one.
__CHARLES A. DANA '
Todays Editorials
F-re Prevention Week 
Theta Tau Spreads Culture 
It Was A Good Game .
VOI. 30- NO. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE; OF' TliCH INOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8* 1935
TCOLLEGE ASSEMBLY AT 11:30 TODAY
Freshman Attendance 
Compulsory; Meet 
At Adm. Hall
BIG TEN EDITOR 
[S GUEST SPEAKER
Major John L. Griffith To 
Discuss Is America 
Growing Soft.
Major John L. Griffith, President 
si tbe National Collegiate assocla 
iIod, and commissioner* ot the 
jesiero rater-collegiate conferei 
riu discuss Ue timely; subject .of 
collegiate interests and participajtn in athletics in bis. address "If 
Unerica Growing Soft -which he trill deliver today at the first genual assembly of the year at 11:35 
io Carnegie Music hall. .
Major Griffith 1j well qualified K apeak on the subject of coltegi-lie at' * ' -----*-
one of lies iiBig 1 -record of Western Conference scores in all major sports. When the Carnegie. Foundation > led '.an ImellgatioQ. ..Into.  the . .status of Hdleglate Bporis two years ago, Major Griffith took a leading part in their defense. He has had many arUcles on athletics and physical education published In leading American newspapers and periodicals, and 1b the author of numerous education textbooks. - 
Major Griffith graduated from Drake University in 1917.' In' 1918 e was an executive officer in .tbe rmy athletic division, :yVaj$hing- jn, D. C. He received the rank'Of tajor tbe following year and directed tlio working out and establishing.ot the U- S.''Army physical education course. Several years later lie worked out a physical efficiency test tor colleges which la idely used.
The major was the principal jpeaker at the University of Pltts- targh football banquet . held lastFebruary;-*, -----' ^7- '
In addition lo Major Griffith iddreea, Clarence Overend, Gradu- i(e Manager of Athletics, will disTerebus and Steve Trboyltcb, will be Introduced to the student body wd tbe cheer leaders will conduct Carnegie son^e and cheers,
Nine Fellowships 
Give This Fall
New Research Men Divided 
Among Several Depts.
Nine fellowships have been given mu lhi3 fen. One-third ot the fellowship holders are in the Departed Chemistry. They are: Nor- E. Favnell. 35, Indiana TJni- fcrsity; Morris Fisher.35, Car- "efie; arid Willard .X Oshoru 36, Carnegie. - /* 
Two fellows who have -come lo he Department of Metallurgy are: Myron A. Hughe&..34. - Ohio State university- WllUam^.vVtLn Note . ot Renaalaer. PojiytecUnical In- 'Iule, and the Unlvi-Blt of Vermont. 
Alexander-K. Cdolldge '33, ofwtlysburg, came to the Dpart- ent of Metals Research; - while mlHain Cawthon 36, of Rodgers of wi ege of Texas, came to the Detriment of Mechanical Research. 
The Department of Coal Re- wen has Carl S. Kuhn, Jr. 35i of 'ce University; while : Russell. P.. Mimaki 34, of Purdue University, "Wo the Department of Civil wemeei lng Research.
Fraternities Plan 
Chapel Service
B. Clausen Opens This 
Years Religious Series
Jajnal Will be held at 11:30 s,; Tuesday, October 15. in the Se theater. This service, the w,5> ltl year, is sponsored by ^ertraterniLy Council..Dr;, Charles 
hi j,ris Wl11 Preside. .He; will be 2Uc by Addison : Gilmore, of Student  CoUnoil.
sory.JUa
Sno,i isuuccn; 13 Hie guestHia aublect - will ' be. Or 7,, aild the Human Adventure. ^ciaU5en is weir.known.^on the 
5? ? oMUSb Last year lie inri ,t one of .the chapel services Ban , save; a talk at: the Chris-^ Association's com': roaat. * 
W year there ' will ; be : an en-. .t?r rnade to increase:'student 
StSf ta'.,,e-- hapel -programs, C? ?mihasis will-,be.placed;on singms . in th' past -there
JiIe i* part of the chapel service.- - .
year chapel will be conduct . a Plan similar to tbat oMast Each recognlzed organlza- on the -campus will have com- barge of-at-least'one chapel
NOTED SPORTSMAN
America Growing Soft."
Carnegie Prof. 
Wins Federal 
Art Contract
McLeary To Decorate 
Wall Panel In New 
Federal Building
1 Kindred-: McLeary, assistant, pro
fessor of architecture, haB been 
awarded a contract to decorate the wall panel of one of the court chambers in the new Federal building. Mr. McLeary won thia honor as a result of a competition held, in Pittsburgh this- summer.
The contest was-one of those which ar being ' held throughout
and sponsored by the Division of Painting and Sculpture of the United States Treasury department. After being judged by a committee in Pittsburgh, the designs were sent to Washington for the final decision. As there ere three court-rooma, Mr. McLeary shared honors with Stuyvesant -van Veem of New York and Howard Cook of New Mexico'.' Although the- competition was held here, a num* jjeutf^jsiitaide^actisLs^Bsre^iQVitea- to participate.Mr. Wilfred C. Readio, head of the Department of Painting and Design;- Mr. John I*. Porter, vice president of Carnegie Institute; Mrs. J. Hailman,' a local artist: and .Mr. Olin Daws, a member of the Division of Sculpture and Painting acted as the committee in general charge of the contest.Each artist will be in charge of the work for his own mural, and will be required to pay all expenses for the installation.
THISTLE MEETING
Thistle meeting for all : bers of the staff Thursday (
500 Clansmen 
Gathered Here 
For Week-end
Nebraska, Vermont Have 
Delegates at Ninth 
Homecoming Fete
PLATE CEREMONY 
OBSERVED FRIDAY
Dr. Watkins Accepte Bronze 
Placque A6 1935 Class 
Joins Alumni
Five hundred Carnegie Alumni 
returned Friday and Saturday for 
the ninth annual homecoming. Rep
resentatives and delegates of clans 
and classes  scattered across th country from Brattlebcro, Vermont to Omaha, Nebraska, registered at the Brown house during the weekend.  - .
general alumni luncheon held at the Brown house at 12:30 o'clock on Friday. Then a parade, Including .the Kiltie band, the color guard
lumnl to the Administration building. There the class of 1936 was formally inducted into the, alamnl. Ray Hannah 35, representative of
plateT bSarlhg' the' class numerals. Dr. Watkins, acting president,' accepted the plate in behalf ot Carnegie. It will be added to the floor design in the front hall of the Ad< ministration building. This plate is annually , bought by Student Council from student funds. Following the presentation ceremony, tbe alumni attended a theater party In'the Union, where the Department of Drazna presented two one-act .'.plays; At- .6:00 oclock ^the alumnae and the wives of alumni had dinner in the Faculty Dining room In Carnegie Commons, followed by a bridge partyin the adjoii ing Club room. The Alumni .held, stag dinner in the Hotel Schenley Ballroom at 6:30 oclock. Ishe.rwood, former Nattonal- and- present. State -Commander of the American ..Legion was the princv pal epeaker.
wore from the Pittsburgh or West:
ed. Among them were: J. mond Hawke '20, who arrived here by- plane on Friday night froi Omaha, Nebraska; J. S. Charles
Mrs. Don Pike '20, from Canton, Ohio; M. D. Scott 13, from Parkersburg, West -Virginia: Harry N.Smith 14, from Milbum, New JerSoviet Seekers of Learning 
Receive Russian Rubles
Dr. Fracht Gives Impression of Russian Education 
Gained on Recent European Tour; Engineers 
Hold Positions of Primary Importance
By Toby Cross 
"Stow would you like to get paid 
for 'going to college? Students in Russian colleges are paid for etudy- says Dr. Max M Procht, asso- clate-professor in the Department  Mechanics, who visited - Russia t summer during an extended European toui*. .The stipend, as the allowance is known,' varies according to the students ability: and his former economic position. Immediately upon graduation from college an engineer begins to draw-a sa* ary of two hundred to three hut dred rubles ii month, enough to liv ' s RuBsian standards are at til ent. In the course of. time h probably work up to four hundred or Bve hundred  rubles a 
nionth. ' .The engineering profession is the nrofession of first Importance in Russia today. Professor Frocht 
said that instead of moth- wanting ^lit
tle boys, to .become . president, thev* wanted them- to . as. en- glneevs. Some
: Frocht
n-technical* 
school - .devote- ouly , part of their time to teaching . and the : Test to industry, serving as consulting, engiueers. Theengineers-: -.position. inRussia sounds rather promising,,; butDr.'.-EYochfc-.discourages' ..the. .idea oe ran -American . graduate .going there to look for-work. -Russia 1 making progress, but compared to. Western Civilization she. has a long wavto go." said: Dr.. Frocht. - 
Russias school system comparea very -favorably.. with -. .our own,. ac:
cord/ng to Dr. Frocht. Corresponding to our grade and high schools is a ten yar school. Upon, completing this work the young Russian then, has to take entrance examinations-to be admitted into college. A college course consumes four years and stresses-such subjects as chemistry, ; physics,', .and other basic sciences;., Particular emphasis is laid on mathematics, possibly even more, so than .is .the practice here. The ten year
courses mainly on the strength of their "proletarian extraction. Sons and daughters.of the former ruling
twenty-five hundred rubles which is the pay of a few prominent factory directors and favorite wHters to ninety rubles per month. The latter. just .enOhslr xn; keep- bouv and soul  together, is .the wage of
and at least vacation with pay. Tbe normal working day is seven hours, which together with. one hour. for.. lunch makes an eight hour day.
electrical engineer. .-Carnegie 'Tech seeme very well,known throughout
ing the books ot our own-Professor Trinks." said Dr. Frocht  Russia^ today. Is in the middle $f a vast building boom. More'than two thousandvnew factories are .under. construction, with apartments going up in every city and town.
said Or. Frocht
Class of 35 Presents Plate
R. R. Hannah presents the 1935 da^s plate'to Acting Prosldent Watkins and Mr. C. 6.?Borshneck '10.
International 
Art Exhibition 
Opens Oct. 17
21 Nations Will Display 
: 366 Paintings; New 
Arti&ts Appear
- The 1935 Carnegie international 
Exhibition >f .Modern Painting .will 
open. In .Pittsburgh at. the: Carnegie 
Institute on . October-17-, and .will 
continue through December 8.. Dur*. 
ing the time of the exhibit, which 
is the only annual display of point
ings in the world, the Institute vflllcelebrate the birth of AndveW'Carf 
oegie, founder of the International 
and donor^ol .the building In which, ;the exhibitiOn/is held.-' . ..*yr
AdmisBion' to this thirty-third Iri^ irriational,.!.ls>ffriee'tO'.thei-5UbliQ^ .he art galierleswill be on^ti' dally!
io in the evening, and on Sundays from i to 6 In the afternoon.
Indicating the rapld changes in the-art world Is the'unprecedented number of artists making their, initial appearance in . the Carnegie International this year. There are ninety-three newcomers. . For .the Irst time there will be exhibits epresentative of Argentina, Brazil,
.venty-one cations will be. shown. 
The Jury ot Award for the Ex- ibition met in Pittsburgh, Sep ember 25 and 20. This year
Alexander Brook of New York City; John Stewart Curry of Westport, Connecticut; Colin Gill of Loudon, England; Jonns Lie of New York City; Hewik Lund, of Olee, Norway, and Isidore Opsomer of
Student Support Asked 
! Annual Charity Ball 
t To Be Dropped
; Tag Day.'ssponsofed annually by 
Itiulid. - women's pbJlanthropic or
ganization, will be ,hoId next Mon.iiay and -Tuesday, October 14 and 
;jl6.- EuIalla-EQkstein' and Adelaide 
^Remington 37 have been appointed 
ico-chairmen. of the affair by BeaTtrlce ATcHer president.
j.. During, the lunch hours on these 
days,: members' ot the Guild will 
e. stationed In all the buildings, ffhe-.tooney received will be. used ror-incir worit, wnjch iaoludes. slv- ing-i acholarahlpB,' and collecting ^ris^fta'.toys'forneedychildren.
tribute, if only a small sum. This ls^Hhe . only time during the year that Guild .will appeal to the student body for financial aid, as there will be no Charity Ball.
/A Guild dinner is being planned for', October 14, st Carnegie Inn. Plans for the years activities j/lll befdiBcussed. Mary Louise Picket rvia in charge of arrangements. 
This -week, freshmen representa- ves will- he elected to the Guild
Sorority Rushing 
Plans Discussed
College of Fine Arts-Opens 
Rushing Season Oct. 20 .
At a special meeting .of Inter- sorority Council called by D'eaji Green, last - Thursday, . ..rushing rules for the year were discussed.
Rushing by the five sororities in the College of Fine Arts-will be open with teas given by the respeo* sorovlfies oh October 20; Rusli ing as a group -will not begiu until October .26. : '' V
e non-rushing tea. sponsored by Interaorority Council' In the College of Fine Arts was held last Tuesday in the faculty club rooms i- the Administration Building. ! 
The non-rushing tea in the Margaret Morrison College-will be held November 6. Open' rushiug will commence November 7. ;
Rushing rules will be about the
1 keeping tbe i 
100and the ruling that each sorority shall not spend emphasized.
NOTICE FRESHMENport at the Tartan.office Friday afternoon. Those, who are .interested work on the business staff:may. report at the same time.
Della Skull Holds 
Second'Tea-Dance
: Delta Skull.Junior. honor-  ary - society. Is sponsoring a  tea dance-tomorrow-from;-4 to in. Tbistle-.Hall. The music -will be. furnished; by Paul Slebert-:-and his orchea-: traT Simon: -Mi; *: Pelser.'. !37, v chairman ot the .committee, promises an added attraction; -
Womens Guild 
Plans Tag Day 
October 14-15
Prof. Ellis Opens 
The ta Tau Sris
Delivers First of Cultural 
Talks at Dinner Meeting
tTvltles - with a dinner meeting In th Commons at 5:30 this evening. Professor J. .B. Ellis; head ofvtbe Department of Architecture, will be; tl guet speaker. .'
;Profe'ssor Eliis'';talk 'will be .the f.VBt ' oi a  Bexiee dos\BT.ed to ' ac- quaint engineering students, with subjects that might be of 'interest ir.them, but which th crowded :hedulo of an engineering ' school takes  it impossible tor; them ' to investigate during school hours. He has.been chosen to open, the sries because., his .address to the . same group last  spring was enjoyed iso greatly by those who "heard it.
Th speakers have all been' s'oiect- ed from the' facultles^of .the College of-i Fine-; Arts and the Division of General Studies. Other speakers for ;the first semester are Professor Elmer Kenyon, head of the Department of Drama; Professor Alexander Kostellow. Department of Paiting and Design; and Dr. Ros- coe. M. Ihrig,. Director of the Division ;ot. General. Studies.;
All students and'members of. th faculty are invited to attend these hour meetings which will be held 011 alternate Tuesday evenings n the Commons, building.
Newman Club Has 
Membe rship Dance
The Registration . Dance . of .tbe i .Club wili be held Friday,
,nd-Bellefield avenues; Joe Tally orchestra will play. .
This dance is held, tor the pur- )se of adding new members, to ie - organization, and having the others.-renew- their membferehip. Admission to the dance is 60c and ill be. applied lj the membership
tion for Catholic- students-at Pitt. Carnegie Tech. Duquesne. and Frlt?b.ltiean.ovganizatIon:''which jB^intereeted-. in- -the..spiritual and locial-well-being- ot the-.students. It *neets:once a month tor', commu- .nion.-v.'hiteT ": -whi^h : breaktftet v ia
Plbes Elect 
Class Officers 
October 22
Ballots 'May Be Cast 
From 11:30 Till 1:30 
In All Colleges
LL PETITIONS ARE 
DUE NEXT TUESDAY
Council Lists Voting Places: 
Result of Election Will 
Be Known Same Day
 Freshman elections in all schools 
wlll. be held on Tuesday. October 
?2, from 11:30 to 1:30. Ballot boxes 
will bo placod in 'tho halls' of the 
respective schools. Officers to be 
elecled are:
College of Engineering: Presi
dent, Vice President, Secretary; 
Treasurer.
College of Pine Arts: President, Vice President, Secretary, And Treasurer.
Margaret Morrison Collego: President, Vice . President, Secretary, Treasurer, Social Chairman, and Senate Representative.
There is to be no balloting for vice ..president. The candidate receiving the second , highest'number of votes for president sbalr be deOctober 15.
Student Council rules for Freshman elections:
Written petition signed bytn tnbers ot the freshman classbe turned in, In accordance with the above, date.,
2. Each signer must be a merit* ber ot the freBhmau class In the particular school for which tbe office Is to be elected .
9. Th petition must,be signed by the person who is- ruhi ' the said officethe nomine 
4. - No person is eligible to sign-than one petition for eachoffice.
6.  Thiel., senate- stall - popt the
boards. These should- appear on official Student Council paper, as soon as nominations clone,
; 6. The lidt of -candidates shall be published conspicuously In the Tartan, preceding elections.
In addition to tho freshman elec*. ttons a special election will be held in Margaret Morrison College to elect a senior representative to Margaret Morrison Senate, to fill the vacancy lert by Sarah Crlllman, who was forced to resign her duactivlty point eyatem which sets a limit for the number of activities women students, may participate in.
This election will take place at
for nominations will be in effect In freshman elections except only five persons must sign the petition.
Rev. Stoddard Is 
W. C. A. Speaker
. Carnegie: Women's Christian Association will -hold lie first luncheon. ^meeting' in ' the faculty room of the Carnegie Inn on Wednesday, October 9 at l2:30. Rev. Harold P. Stoddard, will bo tho apeaker at this .meeting. .
All. members of the freshman class'. are.:particularly, requested *  attend^ this luncheon meeting Iither students, in both Margaret Morrison- and the'College of Fine Arts .are invited to take part ii
Student Council 
Financial Report
September 1,1935 For Year 1094-35
Tri  Publication 1600.00Band ............. 1.500.00Soph Hop ^....  ........1936 Thistle ... ........W o m e n vaSchol-sp ...... .......193C M. M. C. C............1937 M..M.-C. C............1938 m. m. c. c. .;___1935 M. M. C. C. ........W o m e n  0 D.
Morini Board ..............Freshinau All -Cnrn..........................MenB Glee Club 62D.00 Women's Glee Club ..........; 3GO.OO
662.66 56.09* ' 45.73
79.78*
13.73
Commenct ball Arts Ball . .Student CouncilP. Delta EpslPrlee Song ....
..$7,090.09 .$6,760.58
Interfraternity 
Council Gives 
AutomnDnce
Fran Eichler Will Ploy 
For Closed Function 
At Thistle Hall
Frnn Elchler and Ills orcheeira 
will plriy. at the - autumn dance 
sponsored, by Interfraternliy Council Friday, evening:; In Thlstle Hall.
count BiiipluB ot ; ?1.427.10.  Tiwo. sources - of. profit were tlie: Thistle . and- thei Spring; Carnival'^.^Thia 'is the first tlmo in ,recent .yeQ,r&:.that.
tlon which is open only to frater- w - *- 
nity i
This Is the-first L1me that the fraternities oh the campus -have . sponsored a' closed' dance.. In thetall. . Tickets, are available only through the president of each house; They. must, be signed by tho president of the fraternity, and by the member possessing the. ticket.
. Fran Elchler will incorporate many fraternity songs as possible
haB played at the Smithfield Grill. Last.season the band plnyeri for several of tlio large dances on the campus.
Thistle - Hall will' be -decorated with fraternity banners and colors. By doing this, the committee plans to' create a real fraternity atmosphere which surpasses that of'tho annual 'Intertraternlty Ball held in the spring.
.Hubert Kllsel 36, Delta Tan Del- la, is chalrm&h of the committee in charge of the; dance. -He Is assisted by-Henry..Lehne .36, Pl-Kappa Alpha, Delos Branning '36, Theta XI.
Special Raies Offered 
Students for Concerts
reduced rates.
By ' obtaining an  identification card, from Mfss Lawton in Room  153, College of Fine Arts, a student may/secure a season ticket to the concerts. ___
B. Iden ,Payne Returns to Little 
Theater; Directs Skakesperiari Play
The Department, of drama wel
comes the return of B. Iden Payne 
Carnegie to direct Antouy and 
Cleopatra, this year s Shakesperian 
production. Before returning to England last December to become director of the Strattord-.Ou-Avon T.i$inor1al- T'htatevM-r.'- Pajx-e - pro
perlan director/started his theatvl- cal career In 1899 when he, toured England and the provinces in Mile. Gfatifennes company. - Mr; :Payne
Manchester Company,^ .FWh, >.un its able, leadership, bas become tt the finest repertory.theatsrs. iodeni times.-. In .>1913, .iMrV Payne came to America, to -wprk -with, the-Chicsio-Theater-Soclety^. Though this venture.wasafloancial failure, it brought Mr.'Payne to the attention of the Shuberts. who naked: him to.f direct, their Broadway shows.- ' Since -then ho has worked 'with' Charles Frohman and John Barrymore. .Mr. Payne is a director and an an actor, but he is even.
-plays  presented .Payne. The theater. ..-which, was built as a'memorial ..at Shakespeare's birthplace. seats 1.050 .and wae filled .to capacity: throughout most of the twenty-two - week- season.'. "The Stanford-On-Avon' - Memorial.-Theater 1j like-the League o Nations.^ All - nations  are' represented.-though^ during. July - and Augusts nhnut: outerhalf .of the audience was composed ot -Americans. During, .the ^height of the- season one could'-see-.'Ethloplane In .their, native garb , sitting side ' byveitle with visitorsifrom. Itnly."  v - >- s/;. Though Mr.. Payne has worked .at. numerous, other unlversltlesMn the Unlted'SUtes..Carneglerl8-the^only- one at which hevwiir direct during 'his' visit here this year. As soon, as he has s completed: - this produc . tioa. Mr.- Payne-will.-return to England to; make.: preparations for: the coming season. aE .the Memorial Theater.-.
PEOFITSHOWN
BY COUNCIL 
FOR 1934-35
Council.' Releases Year's 
Financial Statement 
Of Activilies
4 ORGANIZATIONS 
REPORT DEFICIT
M. M. Junior SeniorCIasscs, 
Men6 Junior Prom, Soph '. 
Hop Lose Money
Student Council-has just publish-! ed its Aonnclat report for the .Year 1934-36.;,.The.report,'Bjiows (x cash sitrplue 'Of :51,427;10.' ,Elipeiidltiire8 for the year totaled I10.4&5.96. Eleven organizations - operating under the control ot Council received ap proprlations totaling $7,OBO.OO.
The report shows in (lotnll the In como aud expenditures of all non athletlo organizations which have placed Iholr finances under control- of .the Student Council
Tho largest single organization financed through the Student Coun cil Is tho Carnegie Tartan The yearly appropriation for the nows paper is $3.000. Income of the Stu- dent Counoil 1j derived largely through tho activities foes ProlUa -from all r organised activity  are credited to *a general account However, any delict's Incurred b member organisations are paid from Council funds.
With the exoeptlon of eleven tor-: ganlzatlons receiving direct appro*1 prlations Council control ovor. or ganlzatlon finances Is not compul: Any group may turn Its fundt
ganlsationB1 have made .use ;of: thProm;-and -the Margnrst>Moniaon r Classos of- 1036 and v37 showed::!
dent Council. "As seen :from the report the organization as a whole r in better financial shape ctban?
central fioanc<
W. A. A, Entertains 
Freshmen Wed.
Press Humorist Addresses 
Dinner Gathering
The Womens Athletic Associtv-^ lion will hold a dinner for aU freBh- ian women tomorrow at rslx: dock Jn the Carnegie Inm. : The :
PHrpose of the.dinner: ls-.to <urtber acquaint the freshmen-wuh> the ac-:a tivltJes of the. W. A, A- flnd to era-\ sportsmanlike Bpirlt ^-----.. The'ifrCBhmahcessful ^lkstyear- ;being'rep^ted-. i tlit. amnci in lalnly for welcoming freshmen to .: tbe W, A. A. all upperclassmen at^ tending will'be charged a nominal''
of the Pittsburgh Press: - will-'be- the. principal speaker -of the dla^> ner.- The subject of lier-talk will ': deal with women s . interest , in :ath*n letlcs. As an added-part of-tbOT dinner program, one of ther Car- ' negie Tech .cheerleaders will con- 1
6, student director of the Womens .- Glee Club, will lead the singing for;;- $vt>rali ot Carnegie Tcchs /Bonpp. .; The committee planning the dinchairmen: Maud Bowers 36. Koth-': Balter '86. and Claire-Fred-:
Hear N.Y.U. Game 
At Brown House
Gnd'graph . Helps Listeners-; 
Follow Teams Position
scnption of the CArnegie. Tech-tiew^ York University.7 football: game;:bft-^ ing played' in New . York Saturday.^ The broadcast willvbegin. at.-2:00.at^: the Brown House.-.:- - enDr ,.The : grTd-graph tootbaft  l . _ board will be Bet up. thus maldn'l^^ it 'possible to see as well as hear- * thev game.-: .Arrangements --.and:, s tihg up of the board are under ,t direction:.- of:.. George LamberUo
A rl I" Jr -il'ru 1 hc*rr near the building and a syatem ol.^ ampliflerswill.carry-theannouncecij;, dwncrlrtloii to *h* |Ut*<ii(.rq There >*tll I r fr Lbm at" vpd during the half; Any. student interesteiinll!. following, the fortunes ot .thevtek^; ls invited to be present, > i

---------------------------------------------------

Published weekly darin? I - antes of Ctmogle - losUtot < PttUbqishrFosfc Offieo u eeoo
ChicagoPoitnSan Francisco Lot Ang^fePortland
9ultta Uaaaser.
CIRCULATION MANAGER: A. I- Guwli*  TYPISTS: :Mery>.I<on SehUyer: . , .STAFF ARTISTS: C.. Sue fruiter, Robert J JUNIOR EDITORS: Rlchwd Bytne, Toby (
Fire Prevention Week
THE ANNIVERSARY Of the Chicago Are in 1871 
with its picturesque figure of Mrs. OLeary and 
hor legendary cow ushers in Pire Prevention Week, 
October G-12.
Fires, like accidents, dont just happen. There is 
always a cause, -which, firemen tell us, could have 
been avoided by "an ounce of prevention.
 The annultoll which Are takes in this country 
ia tremendous. Twenty thousand lives are snuffed
 QUt. Bamags. exceeds-four hundred millions of dol
lars. We pay dearly for momenta ot carelessness 
and. neglect
This week we should give our homes a thorough 
Inspection. Throw away oily rags and waste paper, 
remove trash from the cellar, provide containers for 
'-'-.ashes and refuse. Clean out closets and attlcB,
. .check the wiring ot electrical appliances, heating
 fixtures and gas connections.
Wo cftn-espect'.that..Jown students will seriously
 -undertake measures, that will prevent. fire. In the 
'dormitories constant inspection and maintenance by 
 the school authorities should reduce the hazard of 
: fir: from'' structural causes." Bt the fraternity
 ; housei? present a more complicated problem.
Fire Prevention Week for fraternities should bo a 
cleanup week. Most fires start in places that could 
be made Bafe with a little effort. An inspection of 
. fraternity hoB.la'flt''yW."Bhowed that much of the 
( materials stored-in cellars and attics was of an, in-, 
.flammable nature. Faulty heaters, broken gas plpeB, 
.-..akd.rags.aud, papers Bluffed into corners where poor 
TetUaiion inivlteB spontaneous combustion! r ed an ger spotfl which no house manager Bboutd overlook. 
' Structural defects and poor home management are 
not the only causes of fires. People who carelessly
 threw away burning matches and cigarets were re
sponsible for eighteen per cent of the fires in the^
 United States last year. Be careful.
- ' This Is Fire Prevention Week.
Theta Tau/Spreads Culture
  ;ppARBNTLY the engineering. Btudent.no longer 
' -^-feeis' :tha.t mere' imowledBe'of bs professionals
-  adquate preparation' for tntTllgent.^and" successful 
/'living-' This is the opinion'of the Theta Tau hon' orary fraternity and is based upon a survey made
 ,;-Vyfthe'i bo'ciety. last, semester.  Student opinion at 
V that time expressed a .desire tor an introduction to
 .:-Y*riv-'   v -'Anil Theta Tau has answered this desire by con. 'Unking;the,cultural talks which were sponsored last 
:'.v'yer;- !liot merely training that will provide bread and 
Vlutter.bt a knowledge pi the art of living is desired 
\ of,.college education. .A good engineer is not always
 ^ successful engineer and ye.t the attributes of-the 
"latter are sometimes forgotten in the struggle to
- earn.a livelihood.------- ..... .................... .'^''V'.Thifl is not the first time, however, that the engl' v users, have expressed a desire for culture. Other 
V.'-groups have tried to satisfy this want but there is
a-differehce-belweeiL. wanting-and seeking.- -The- efi;;;.f(jits of the organizations produced no results. Engineers are still presumably uncultured.
: v But If there is  large attendance at the first 
; : .Theta Tau talk this evening and in subsequent 
^ v^ineetlngs we hall iniow- that'the engineer has stop-ped talking and become serious in his Quest ior
 M broider appreciations and understandings.
.It is a compliment'to Carnegie that. Theta Tau 
py;nftr determining the need of the engineers did not 
; ?hve to leave the campus to find exponents of cul-- 
'.v tiire but selected members of the faculty and admin* 
^'istratlon. <
It Was A Good GameW
E SAW a real football game last Saturday. It 
was exciting, weil played mechanically, and in* 
indicative of. much future improvement in the Car
negie team. There is little doubt that the general 
-public,'.free from any sentimental attachment to 
either team, was well satisfied with, the game.
-Notre Dame played well nnd deserved to win. But 
^-it'lB the concensus of opinion that the TaTtan team 
:;; whicli staved off the terrific Notre Dame onslaughts 
f-ln the first half played a far better brand of football 
'than our teams of the past tew years, 
v  Even among the alumni who were gathered here 
>-for homecoming festivities, and who were naturally 
 disappointed that they couldn't see a victory, there 
S'araa,.-a- distinctly...optimistic..viewpoint,.. This..w.aa. 
.^ largely caused by the second quarter spurt, when 
i-the Carnegie offense .was able to penetrate the heavy 
rand well-drilledNotre bame line and work the ball 
>intoa position for the field goal that gave the Tar-stabs the lead at . half-time.
There Is little question- that-- the club is not asstrong.'defensively ae: It has been for several seai^.Bons:1-'Defensive. strength has been sacrificed for 
-offensive power Our team found out Saturday that 
SiltSfeouitfiaSa"Ogsiflst^oEft-.otJhe.-dneet tearaa-in-the. 
'/ country-and the confidence generated by the second 
period sport although it did not bring victory., will 
^.berT^flected in'later games.  
ucCarnegies coaches must have felt a warm glow of 
'.pleaaure-'tO'See'tiia team stand up against the Irish 
^thrusts:-.- Days.-even weefcs of coaching would never 
teach our team the valuable lesson** t&ey TearAed In 
Saturday's game Even though the game was lost 
the student body has regained the confidence which 
fealjbeen noticeably lacking In past seasons We
- I'lay on the grassy bank- and watched the  river, the beautiful Ohio, as It wound its eternal course through mountain gaps, paat-vlilages and - dams, until It finally suppea ny in zront ox mea surging, half-human body of water traveling to the sea. . .
Lying there, I remembered the day when- the body of the once-lovely-young .collie dog had come floating down so slowly and silently past the little rlyer port. . 1 remembered bow the fishermen, excited almost to the pitch of delirium, had put out in a skiff and retrieved the body. while the villagers, gathered along the bank In groups of twos and threes, followed the work of the rescue crew with their eyes and hurriedly speculated on. whether the "poor soul" was a mao who had tired of the constant struggle for existence or a woman who had sought In death the solace and tender sympathy which life had denied her. I remembered how reluctant, the greedy river bad been to, give up its prey, and 1 could never quite'forget'the inflection bt'rather ' intense disappointment placed upon the word "only" as the human vultures on the bank turned to each other remarking, "It's only a dog. ........... ~ "
I recalled the river in all Its emotional stages.I thought of the days when, like an obedient child, 11 had rolled placidly along, mirror-like in its silver transparency with the sunlight dancing lightly over It I thought of its less carefree mood when, blue, opaque, and almost motionless, it had seemed to be pondering over some difficult and weighty question. Then I remembered -Its days of capricious rejoicing, when it had behaved not unlike a frolicsome puppy, rippling and splashing along, slapping lhe faces of all .the little rowboats and then racing away again ' with the breeze before the boats could recover their composure. However, most deeply, rooted in my memory wore my impressions of the river In its laziest state, when it had pulled <
ture ocean waves, which pounded the shore Jn an excellent imitation of their older brother^. Gay laughter floating across the water drew my attention to the passengers, the majority of whom were either striding along the decks or hanging over the rails. . Even as the boat passed out of my sight behind a bend in the .river, visions ot other river-transports flooded my minds eye. There was the vivid showboat with Its screaming calliope and its art of awakremembered the Bhock of being rudely aroused In the dead of night by their resonant horns breaking through the rivers fog-blanket like
bored and tolled when, by accident, they J from their channels, proof enough of the treachery lurking beneath the river's surface.By means of that queer trick which memories have of shitting abruptly from one point ot Interest to another, I found myself wondering if rivers, were .not a powerful influence upon the .characters of the persons in whose lives they played such a large part I thought at once of the socially despised river rats. Without an exception, the river bad branded them as surely as though it had seared their flesh with an ineffaceable stigma. In the hearts of all river men, I .reflected, It planted a seed of such unreBt and violent longing that, the distressed , individuals could never entirely free themselves from the clutches of river life. Even those who merely lived by Its banks were noticeably influenced. ; They became, sooner or later, compatrlbts in . that relatively large group of American' people best typified by the traditional- Cape Cod-.vll-.: lagfefrri^Ko'ilght of the only old'1river -captain with whom I had, the privilege of being acquainted. His grisly appearance, together with bis rriarvelous atorles, had fascinated me, but I had been even more fascinated by his sense of loyalty and devotion .to the life which earned him his daily bread. Yet it was even more than'that. The strain which ran predominantly through his speech, manners, even his thoughts bordered more closely.on the fiercest admiration and love her could entertain toward an inanimate force.. Next, I remembered the little woman who nearly halt a century ago had come as a bride to the tiny shipping port. It had been far from easy for her to adjust herself to the river life.Rivers, 1 concluded, were more than halt human. - Like men theydesired and, desiring, destroyed the object of: Iheir passion by crushing its. life out. Like children they demanded , constant attention and...strict .control. lest,, un- . watched, they Teverted to nature's impulse to .wipe out human life. Finally, like some powerful statesmen they swayed multitudes by mere
VIRGINIA LEE
TI7AR Is on In East Africa..MusI* solinl's troops lh Eritrea invaded Ethiopia because, according 
to a note he sent to the Leugue of 
N'a t l o s,f'th Ethiopian mobiliza
tion, though ' this 
was not ordered un
til after* the Italian? bad . crossed
cupled strategic po
sitions south of Alt 
Mussa AIL Bsltlngbeta  - He-; 
rouU. the Ethiopian foreign -minister,, 
sent to. the league 
this message:
"A telegram received October 3 from lias Seyum, Informs the Im
perial government that Italian mil-liar; airplanes tlils mrnlng bombarded Aduwa .find Adigrat, '-leav
ing many victims among the clrlllan population, Including women 
and children, -and destroying numerous houses. .,
A battle-Is at, this moment.tak
ing place In the province of. Againe.
Thse events, occurring on Ethi
opian territory;; constitute a viola
tion of the empire's frontier, and 
a breach of the covenant of the 
league, through . Italian aggression. 
A Reuters dispatch from Addis 
Ababa said the Italian force advancing on Agnme had been defeated, but this report appeared to 
be false.
The Italians, moving sontb from 
the Asmara region, crossed the 
Mareb river frontier" at widely separated points nnd converged In 
benry columns toward Aduwa, the 
scene of the. terrific .Italian ^defeat 
30 years a^o. Government authori
ties in Rome at first denied that Aduwa and Adlgrat had been 
bombed, but this action was report
ed 'by American correspondents 
with the Italian army. Tlie whole operation was under the direction 
of Gen.- Emilio De Bobo, commander In chief of Italy's colonial armles.Halle Selassie^ order for general 
mobilization weis carrlcd throughoot the,empire by'the ominous beating of the war drums, and his eager 
warriors responded by the hun
dred thousand. The emperors first 
war order was to bis chieftain,. Ras 
Kabada, and three other generals, 
to take 50.00b men to Mt. Mussa All. The defense lo the North.-was entrusted to.-fthe Negradns of Wollnclio, -"It wasv'esatlmnted at'- A'ddls Ababn that the - emperor .coul^ .count .onshe service^qf ahoutl1250.rj 
&00 fighting men, and the Vomii Iso are ready, :fot .active work in 
the conflict
S
IMULTANEOUSLY With open:. ing of hostilities in Ethiopia,' 
Mussolini gave the signal-for tre
mendous . mass gatherings of nil Fascists in Italy. Millions of Black 
Shirts in all the cities ' dropped 
everything and assembled, to chcer 
for the'Duce'tind his African ad
venture.' From the balcony of tl:e 
Venetian palace in Rome the pre
mier'shouted the words that com
mitted his ' nation to a policy that 
may mean either victory or ruin. 
H.e reiterated, his jJetermlontlon to seize territory from Ethiopia but 
declared he would' do everything 
possible to prevent the campaign from. bringing on a'European war. 
But he warned the League of NatloQs. artd aU nntiooa. to fceep'thftir
hands off, soylng;
To sanctions of an economic 
character we reply with our disci
pline, our sobriety, and onr. spirit 
of sacrifice. To sanctions of a military character we will reply with 
measures of military character. To 
acts of war we will reply with acts of war."Summoned hastily to a meeting 
of Jibe, league council in Geneva, the 
statesmen of rEurop*e "fouha^tttempelves confronted by the fact that 
an undeclared war. was being waged 
by r-a;' league- 'member against a 
league member.. Article XVI of the 
leugue covenant provides for severe 
penalties for sucb a war when the 
aggressor has been determined. 
The sanctions range through an 
economic and tinnnclal boycott to final military penalties. Before go
ing to Geneva, Anthony Eden of 
Greal Britain conferred with Premier Laval of France-in Purls. He 
had Instructions' to throw the full 
support of hls movement behind 
league efforts to isolate or bait the 
conlllct- in Africa. French olQclals 
believed that if sanctions were applied by the league, they would be 
only economic, which would shut 
off loans and raw materials from 
Italy. The mobilization of tbe 
British navy in the Mediterranean and the Red sea continued with acceleratedspeed.
F
IRM assurance that the United 
States would not be drawn into 
a foreign war iras given by Presi
dent Iloosevelt In his uddress at Snn-DlcRo. -He said: 
We not only earnestly desire 
peace but we are moved by a stern determination to avoid those porlls that will endanger our peace with' 
the world. As President of tbe United States ! say to you most 
earnestly once more that tbe people 
of America and the government of 
those people Intend and expect to remain at peace with all the world. 
In Washington Secretary ot State Hull made'a strong plea for peace,- 
declai-lng- that economic" recovery 
Is being retarded by international 
political uncertainty. He. warned, 
that world political. stability can
not be achieved without a revival of world trade and that war will block 
trade.
C
OL. FRANK KNOX, publisher of 
the Chicago Daily News, is now 
an accredited candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination, 
for he has received the indorsement. of ^Reputllcao
.'mlttee of Illinois, Colonel Kd'ox has been In a receptive
.mood for a loog '
 time and has travr. ieled all over the country making 
speeches. In various unofficial straw 
votes he has been placed second., only . ?,,u*
Senator Bornh being preferred'to
[him.- - Addressing the Illinois central 
] committee,. Colonel ,Knos . said:- I .have been from t^e Atlantic to the Pacific and from West Virginia on 
-norih', y and' everywhere'1 findthat' ;the Republicans not only think tlint 
they will be victorious but.they have 
:a deep sense of responsibility 'to rescue the country from the hands !of soclnllsts.'
Col. Frank
Greek Notes
after tbe many 'successful Hoi coming events. Delta Tau Delta and Beta Theta PI had record crowds at their houses. They
Saturday redecorating their .___with life assistance of Bert .Latl- more '36, graduate of Interior Dec-, orating, , while the Betas plan. to leave as a body for New York.
The N. Y. U- game too will take quite a few men away from Pittsburgh. The Delta Upsilou and Phi Kappa representation will - be strong Saturday. The latter fraternitys New York Alumni are plaunlng to attend the battle all together and hold forth at the New Yorker afterwards. We are sorry to hear that James Meenan *3C, of the Phi.Kaps is just recovering after a bad accident this summer.
Pi Kappa Alpha owns a brand new B. C. A. Victor radio, thanks to special efforts made by Big Fitswllson. Instead- of A; local dance orchestra; they planned to swing to all the big bands last Saturday and havo a . good radio left-after tbe Homecoming
Alpha-. Sigma Phi and SlgmaNu be. haying trouble with
ternlty . council meetings tor Inthe Interfiateralty. Dance
.. . theabsent team ' at a special" football supper Friday night. : Hearty congratulations to Beta: -Slgma>-Rho. < They ; will > celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of-the fraternltysfoundlng'wlthasmoker for actives and- alumni Saturday-at
ss*
fci3*%.!| v . - --I
THOUSANDS of years ago,.a skin-clad workman pounded away with a cobbleucopc on;a.sIab of,hard rock. In a few years thac slab mightbe passably square and smootli........ ,-r.
Today, busy, machines, supervised by trained workmen, pare off crisp, curliM nbbons from.wiiirliDg Tjlocks of steel, as one would uawind ribbon fromVsgool, shaping the. metal to a thousand purposes- to an accuracy within a few' ten-thousandths of an inch.
CARBOLOIf U6ta modem tool material, developed: by General Elcctric researchhas madc'possible xbis speed,^.tbis precision. It qits-autcm) hitherto miworkablc.curs faster, and] holds its c<ige longer than steel toolscan be ruii at red heat without kising its temper.
CAKBOLOY is oiJ^. one of the contributions made to impcpved industrial processes, by rcscaciiresearch that has saved the public from. tea to one hundred dollars fpr every dollar earned for General Electric.
GENERALI^ELECTRIC
IHEAVY HEAVY what hangovers 
. ft's the Sunday morning theme 
song . . . hmmffl, woi's dees. It's 
the outcome of home-coming . .' . 
could 1 stood it . . one ot the
enterprising of the alumni 
who had apparently spent tbe week 
in preparation greeted his brothwith, I'm just beginning to 
feel last Monday, but I can't wait 
LIU 1 fell Wednesday . . . that 
was my worst day last wock. . 
oh boy, do I smell . . .
OVERHEABD.-ATPE..GAME,
'What do you tbink of Bill Shakes
peare as a football player - . . 
'I-don't know about-that,-.but gosh, 
te sure can, write." . . .
DURING THE IHAI^F when the 
band sent up Rocknes caricature 
(which, incidentally was very com
mendable) Roger Burke was so 
ome that he began to cry . . . 
he finally left the game near the 
end of the third quarter, not being 
able to hold back his tears ... 
Clyde Glshel, last years head yell 
l, couldn't secure a field pass 
he donned cheer-lead sweater 
made the field ... he man
aged to shake hanads with every 
j in the band . . . and everyone 
the stands, for that matter .  .
SOME TECH BABE made a re
mark to the effect that the Kiltie 
Band resembled a bunch ot sissleB 
it musl be lhe ribbons in Halt 
American Allback Ackley's drum 
sticks ...
I WAS JUST WONDERING what 
three betas was a doin' In 
Gammons of t'other night what 
might have made them go around 
passing out Prince Albert Tobacco 
labels for calllng.cards; .
AND WHO (hold your hats boys).1j 
barefree female dramat what 
was sitting in tbe lounge at Web
ster Hall nonchalantly smoking a 
pipe .... say, its comng to stage 
of what do men have that women 
haven't got ... dont look now, 
but I feel a revolution coming on 
. Milt Goldbloom should ought 
know something of this matter
'POWERHOUSE' S(J5HLEUSENER 
across with his annual wlse: early in the season . . . 
was standing in front of theDelt house the other day when two 
freshipen girls came strolling: up
the. street ... _of his broB he blurred - twit; "Here comes a couple of plebes .
aairyaopru . . . one of those die-hard birds was out playing golf the other day (just thought Id mention it) . . . on' the very first tee he smacki the ball straight up in the air ... he seemed pretty worried as the ball continued to rise, so he quickly blurted out,
he. was telling his students'of tbe breathing spell that the president. 1b. giving to big business . . .
A COUPLE OF THE BOYS were wboopinltup at Kahn's Grill one night when in walks a guy accompanied by a monstrous great dane . . . Is it a cross? from the side lines plies Bill Reed, from under pretty even tempered:
queries a bird
this goes on the weekly 'ouch'
THE BILL MILLER COMPLAINT . . In brief: What's the Idea of bringing home a loaf of bread when there ifent any whiskey in' the
last week the Italian-Ethlopian :
in tbe end . . . the world series has aroused a lot-of betting-;* v .. there Is one pool wherein one places a dime and stands a chance of . winning a dollar eighty (the provorblal Chinamans chance)
they complain about the bookstore not having the texts in on time, when heres a good excuse for not doing nlghtwork staring them right
LOVELIPS* CROYLE is that way about a - certain A.. A. Semmons
IF NEW PROFESSOR HENNING keeps on lecturing to his plant managers at breckneck speed hell .complete. the course in one more
WE HEAR THAT A MODEL fainted in the architects life class. Wc strongly.suspect, Powder-Puff Patt leading lady of the Department of T.nfftrinr .Decora,tion......... . .
At Le Sorbonne. Paris 700.5 
old university, there ere 
football, teams, .fraternities,dent proms.
Anthony Manone, totally biin/ entered the College of BuBiueem 4* ministration , of Lehigh thiB fsii with a full course four-year rcw arship, and is believed to be tw first blind student ever to aiunn Lehigh. He is 0 talented pS baa aennmpanied school and pr
. ... . VANITY .FAIR
Women are centuries behind lh* men. In, the: carrying of .powder boxes and mirrors, according in discoveries made recently  cavatlens near Leke Balato: gary.
These discoveries confirm lh.
ago carried tainisg a mirror and some ecen'i^ pomade. The pomade was used by   give their long whist
and glossy appearance.
WHAT PRICE GORE
Sixty-two students of Queens University, Canada, were fined 52 each for hazing freshmen by robbing over-ripe tomatoes and rollea eggs in their hair.
LEADING UNIVERSITIES
In order of their scholastic eminence, the eleven,leading American universities are Harvard, Chicago.
article appearing in the June lantlc Monthly. Mr.. -Embree has been an officer of Yale Univeraliv for six years, director and vice president of the Rockefeller Foundation for a decade, and president of the Julius Rosenwald fund, besides having held several college positions. He used the 1934 report
the universities.
GREEN REPLACES WHITE
Nurses, in operating rooms are now wearing green'unlforms so as not to reflect light that might annoy operating physicians.
THE BIG BROADCAST
Boilermakers with Northwestern on October 5 over a nation-wide hook-up of the Columbia Broad-?aPting System.
STAUFTS Student Supplies
FORBES STREET, BETWEEN OAKLAND AND BOUQUET
# We hancUe all makes of Pens and Peneils, incliiding
Shaeffer and Parker
A COLLEGE PROFESSOR DISCOVERED
That Often It Isnt a Stmdents Brain but his Pen 
that Rons Dry^eaases Failurein Classes aiid Esains!
So he invented this sactess Vacumatic, and Parker engineered it to perfectiongave it 
102% more Ink Capacitymade its Ink Level VISIBLE, so it suddenly cant go empty/
iron) .9 singlefillingr-showwben itV.......Go and try.writing two differentrunning lowtclla when to refill! wave with its Revcreihlo PointsoMAny good store selling pens, will' Gold combined with precious Pint**W you now the Parker Vacumatic inumskilfully fashioned to write on* linoteB 14 old-time parts, iodudr both sidee-^-ahehtly turned up at tbethe lever fiUej* aiidrubber ink eac tip.so.it .cannot Bcratch nr drag, w
the revolutionary Parier Vacumatic. This miracle pen writes 12,000 wordsParLer
y^-vACi/MA r/co
And- due ___________doubJcrooniforini^tiiifti otii'inamse inaiai. iBut don't, think that sadess pens oopitaining squirt-eun pumps are like ' Parker patented Yacu- matic. Thisnewcreadoa contain* none of these. Thats whyite cuaran- cba.nicai.lt
in^it.haa
 let an M;|>cn imped0 your learning another day. . The Parker Pen Company,  Jkncevill*
' Sez a PoitCari far FR C01* tie of' Parker Quintthe mai- veloa'nv qulc-dryiiiSi I*0- deanln* -Ink,- arid threw jv* blotter- away; ' AiUr^ Oept.
PEOGRAMS
5 PEN* CU|rrTJENKN3ARM)ELGirr OnltprrTSBURCHSinger's Feature SHEATFEE PBODUCTS 
 Pen and Pencil Repairing *
SCHICK DEY SHVESFAVOES

---------------------------------------------------

_CH_CA
SA U CE
?
By Scotty Charles
THE STRONGEST NOTRE DAME team In many years pulled Into 
PITTSBURGH to soundly thrash the locals, when all of a sudden, after 
minutes of action they found themselves on the bottom. Then 
wmeM'n0 happened. Between the halves the Plaid team that took all 
ths Iri6h had to ?*** and then came back to capitalize on a 
breafcr.feU apart. Every coach In the grandstands offered a different
ihry ;s to what had happened snt attempt an enumeration.
AFTER IT WAS ALL OVER, the popular opinion 1788 that Car
negie bad made a swell showing and there was nothing to be ashamed 
ctto the defeat, decielveas It was. That -gave the alumni a-nice oppor
tunity (o celebrate a moral victory which was better than not ceietorallng anything at allespecially when the moral support had been 
bought be/ore the fray.
ONE COCKLE-WARMING PHRASE OF THE BATTLE was the 
Carnes' defensive stands and general fight. The Sklbos have always 
been stow to start getting into the spirit of things, but after the first 
Notre Dame advance, the lads tightened up like a cheap collar and held 
the Irish every time they threatened In the first half.
OUTSTANDING STARS WERE NUMEROUS la this battle of 
tiawn, as It seemed like each boy was really doing his best On the 
defense, Freddy Lehmsn, who is about as fine a gridder as wears the 
plaid, proved himself priceless. Time after time he cracke'd through 
interference to bring down the Irish and at no time was he completely 
out or the play. Though Lehmans fine play was an outstanding feat
ure, it cannot overshadow the efforts of others such as Trboylch, HenrioD, end the center of the line In general. To comment on each ones 
best points would be too big a job so lets.more on to the next cage.
 WE UNDERSTAND THAT THE KOPCSAK FAMILY Is not very 
popular at Notre Dame, what with the old Army star breaking up the 
Irish backfletd eome years ago and Coleman causing grey hairs last 
Saturday. However, we know that the South Benders are not very 
well liked by the Kopcsaks In general. ' -
As we heard the story, the youngest of the Kopcsak clan was In 
Ihe stands during the gamp, deplorlngthe softness of the Irish.equad. 
Every time one of the Laydenmen was injured he-could be heard giving 
the boys the merry berry from the sidelines. .Finally, Big Brother Kopcsak went down for the long count.
The kid Jumped to hla feet
"Hey," he yelled, "that was Coleman. Oh well, hes a creampuff
AGAIN Y/E ENJOYED LISTENING to the broadcast of the gl 
title time, about five feet from the mike. The announcer bad 
seen the Plaid before and bad all kinds of fun. By the time the game 
6l over, he had people in the game who hadn't played football'for 
three years. According to him. Bowser and James were playing nice 
flames incidentally, neither lad was in uniform.
THE PRIZE GAG CAME WHEN ROSENTHAL was knocked out 
older than a Deana conscience In the second half. As the weary griddere rested during the time out, the announcer barked:
 * * the boys are taking it easy now, yes sir, they all Ge 
be enjoying this time outno, wait a minute, Rosenthal Isn't," 
THE NEW-YORK TRIP THIS WEEK will bring the Tartans up 
against another famous Jinx team. Last year, the Piaid broke the spell 
and came through to beat N. T. U. in Knickerbockers town. Saturday 
they face a much improved Violet squad and will have to show plenty to 
'win again.
THE VIOLETS HAVE HAD LITTLE COMPETITION to date, 
lenlng last Saturday against Bates College of somewhere in Maine. 
The Bates boys are In the ciass of Knox and Prlrclpia and generally 
spend Saturday afternoon watching big leaguers kicking points after 
touchdowns. The N Y. U. victory was 35-7, with the Lewlstowners 
ring first. After the .first quarter It was a dull affair with the Vloi scoring leas often than they should have. However, the New 
kers will be well rested, for thi6 weeks game and the battered Plaid 
i anticipate a tough time trying to .win.___________ *
Foes Continue 
Winning Ways
Impressive Victories 
Mark Early Games
N.Y.U., Purdue; Holy Gross* 
Temple Win; Dukes Loee
Carnegies remaining opponents 
for this season were with one ex
ception very successful in yester
days grid battles. In New York, 
was running high, when the 
surprising N. Y. U. team romped 
over Bates College to the declsi tune of 34-7. The Violets are wait*1 inb impatiently for nest Saturday when' they hope to give the Plaid a dose of the same medicine. Pop Warners iwhj staged another exciting victory when they beat Texas A. & M. in a bitter intersection- al battle, 14-0. Purdue's Boilermakers :kept .right in, the - swing -of things wltb a snappy win Northwestern, 7*0. Another back for Duquesne was given by Rices Owls, Ibis time being the second loss in a row for the DukeB. The score is very expressive of the tough time that the Pittsburgh boys had after a long journey to Houston, Texas. The tally was 27-7 when the game ended, with Duquesne sot looking forward to their contest with the Tartans' with half the confidence that they had a year, ago. Holy Cross engaged In rather a track meet affair, white-washing the University of Maine, 27-0. A newcomer to the Carnegie- schedthe Proxies 35-0,Notwithstanding the success of these teams, the Tartans should put up a good fight in every game. Scaring Notre Dame ns they did last, Saturday, and displaying an excellent grade of-defense.football, Carnegie can be counted on to give a good account of itself In all of the remaining games of the season.
Womens Athletics
By Margie Green
e to think of It, W. A. A. has 
quite an up and raring-to-go organi
zation tliis year. Just think of all 
tlte athletic activity, up to date: 
mainly, the new system of Play 
for Play's Sake." This probably 
doesn't mean much to you'freshour older sisters cai 
precate on improvement over 
days of yore when the sports al- t had the same significance Chemistry or history; one worked instead ot playedone had to' a <*It a cut if she were late for practice. Here Is your opportui it?, dear freshmen, for adding that colorful, though slightly exaggerat
ed "collichspirit to yourwork..I daresay the addition of horae: hackridlng and bicycling to our program will meet with campus- Tride approval. The former has Just been approved by Dean Green, and. , arrangements are already underbill Greers Riding Stables in nd. Tile Outing Club has al- indulged in a cycling spree through Schenley Park. Betty Hook and Kathern Thomas were observed tendering up and down hiil-sidca, with Betty in. the lead.Also keep open -the night. of.October 25 for something extra spec- , at^ very unusual. . This advice  aopoaed to mystify the public, Ull further notice. ' ;Instructions for archery are flen every Tuesday and Thursday afternoon for beginners, while ex Pttlenced archers can shoot any- oie they wish,'and as many thirty arrows as they- can . in-. the -hour
The hockey 'club Is holding meeting for Juniors and seniors either today or Thursday for the , purpose of arranging convenient practices. Refer to bulletin boards for the definite arrangements.
Now for the big news of the weelr the annual W. A. A. Freshman at six oclock tomorrow.
TUERCA
Plebe Candidates 
Report For Rifle
All fr< cd In tl quested
Thursday, October 10. As the team Is recruited from rifle club members, freshmen are urged not to report without clubcarde'whichcan;be obtained at the graduate managers office in the gym. Candidates will not be considered' unless they participate in the preliminary training which lasts until January
how to shoot-and. trying.out
October 17. No past experiHEALTH BULLETIN
1. Keep your chest upInfla* tion not deflation.2. Stand tallremove the sway
. 3. Put unemployed muscles work.4. Snap out of the shoulder slump.6. Use your mirror and. check yourself.
ARE YOU A SLOUCH?
Exclusive!
The Famous
Milano Pipe
Sold formerly up to $3.60
Now $J,00
Dines Cigar Store
Ramblers Down Ptaid 
In Last HalfRally; 
Kopciaks Kick Scores
Notre Dame Tallies 
Come After Two 
Long Marches
LEHMAN DISPLAYS 
DEFENSIVE POWER
Kiltift Bnni Honors Rpckne
In Impressive Ceremony . 
Between HalveB
By Ed. Mulligan Carnegies fighting Sklbos went down In defeat on Saturday, but the. defeat, was honorable and the Big Green was forced to show hwv sustained drives of 63 and 9$ yards respectively to win. The first halt all Carnegie. Although Notre Dame piled up yardage with ease during most of the first period, quarterbnch Frohmbart found a determined line awaiting his plays' . his team had advanced to the Plaid tweniy. Seven times the Ramblers knocked at the Scots goal during the first half, and were lauy times' repulsed without scoring. The Skibos were in Notre Dames territory only, once in ..that
He tthe goal lino, wltb the Carnegie stands in an uproar. The score' was not allowed, because of tbe rule -which declares the turn- bled ball dead, but the run was a thrill for the crowd.Later' the Piaid carried the ball to the 25, and on the fourth, down decided to try. for a field goal! Coleman Kopcsak booted from the 33 and the ball sailed squarely between .the uprights for Carnegies
The complexion ' of the game Iceably with the beglnAfter Notre Dame received the ball soon after the kick-off, tbe Irish backs began a drive that was not e=5fid until Bill Shakespeare, by far the outstanding
again after a 93 yard march and Fromhart converted the point.
of Freddy Lehman, who. backed up the line. Time after'time he broke up Irish plays; at the line/ and once went through the line to nall;a Rambler back for a considerable loss. An injury late in tbe half forced him to leave the field tor the day. Tbe game brought many injuries to both teams.
. Notre Dame and Carnegie supporters witnessed an impressive scene during the half. The Kiltie band released a large banner carrying the picture of Notre Dame's immortal coach and the word. Rock. The band played suitable muBlc, wbile the. crowd stood bareheaded in silent tribute to the-memory of a: man who has doneeo, much tor football.' Such- Inspiration should serve to make any boy come back and play his heart out. The Notro Dame squad to a man was no exception.
Minor Sporls 
Squads Begin 
Fall Practice
RiEe, Soccer, Swimming 
Teams Prepare For .
Opening Meets 
The varsiiy rlfie toam, very ably coached by Seargeant Sommers, will meet their first opposition of the year when they encounter the Seneca Club ot Pittsburgh. This match will constitute really only a shoulder to sholder practice. Carnegie should have a better or at least as good a rifle team as last year because they started off the first weeks practice wltb 34 points over last years team.The soccer team will start off their season Friday, October 11, with the first game being played
side Academy team.The freshmen swimming aspirants Btnrted working out yesterday.
Laterals and Forwards May 
Prove Effective for Violets
Mai 'Stevens 'Will Save' 
Well Balanced Team 
 To Battle Plaid'
By- Larry' Decklnger ' . V 
N. Y. U. Sports Editor .
It is bxlomatlcnlly averred, not 
without reason,- that "You can't 
keep a good man down." True 
enough. But in football tho'ele
mentary problem is to get''him 
there 1. e., when be ^happens to 
bo in possession ot the ball.
One ot the most potent weapons 
In the bands ot the attacking .team 
to keep the possessor of the ball 
away from tacklers is to have the 
ball chnge hands frequently ' and unexpectedly; and this la accomplished by .means of tbe pass, forward and lateral... And it Coach Mai Stevens 1935 edition of the Violet grid forces is to be stopped this year, either a goodly proportion. of his more aggressive disciples will hay^ hnd
to develop on adequate untlgen-for 
the New.'Xork V. aerial attack- " /  It. ,1a,. because ..Doc Stovendhas been parUoularly emphatic In pnvc- ...........'-Since' the opening
that he has succeeded in develop* ing what' Is probably as strong a grid squad as the Violet has put on the field since the .days ot Chick Meehan, professionalised "amateur elevens, and the inauguration ot "de-emphasls as a toot* ball policy at N. Y. U. (In thlB respect, moreover, the Doc Is keeping abreast ot the times, the trend . last year ond this pointing toward a wldeopen, passing game ot football.)The Doc Is particularly fortunate in having on his ' backfleld roster a super-abundance-of capable balMoesens. Among the moTe efficient aro Ed Smith, triple-threat.. fullback, Charlie Siegel, slippery, quarter, and Milton Miller, who qurter-baoked the undefeated -1994 frosh eleven. .
il
WAITER
MWBWlMASnitW.CeBE. 
W.r/NWNG .Virtflfc 
 -WA*  iMIM-COMPHUKG 
ORAMW- WAWR IS Wig TUN 
EVER OH THE NEW 
CARAVAN,
MWS
YWK -Bflunfl- ECCITiiVG. 
-TOE HEW SS.W
new OF THE AIK. ROMANTIC 
MiuftOV IS HER CSW1RISU1KW TO THIS NEW AUFSTAU 
CANCEL CAKAtfnri.
KU5W6
Hit BAM fAMOSS SfoKTS
caffijKfNrATOft 1934 me
*IN5IM POPE"' Off THE fiiO 
SPORTS EtfEWTS. FOIMW HIS
*emws ay vncmaions9N1WE CAMEl C/WAVAt.arili
ISW GRAY
AMP ru*
CASA IOMA SAN!
BACK ASA!Wlffl Wf HIT 
TOMS OF THf DAY. CATCHV 
worn! enieiMAL oenifTM7ONS! WESE CDEIEGIATE 
Ffsssrts TURKISH WRUUN6 
MIW FOR7MF CAM! I CARAVAN.
.. .
tr

NOW BROADCASTING!
BEGINNING 7UCSOAV, 0C70BR |sr AAV EVRvT/ESDAYanoTWURSD/1V 
9-00 1939 EASTERN TIME j 9'30 439 MOU/VTAW TM.
0:00 KM. C6NTAAI TIME | 8:30 RAt PACIFIC TIMfc 
OVER COAST-TP- COAST* WABCCOUM8/A NETWORK
THAT CAMELS, WHICH OFfER. THIS AlL-STAR. 
PROGRAM FOR YOUR 6AQOYMNT, ARC MADE FROM TINtR, MORE BXPEM/YB 
7QBCOOS-TUHK/SH ANO DOMESTICTHAN ANY OTHER POPULAR BRAND.
Ctppitht US, R J > m n
GET A UfT WITH A CAMEL f

---------------------------------------------------

Night School 
Section of 
Tartan
General Newe-Editorial Com
ment-Fraternal Organizations
Welcome AU
The staff of the Carnegie plaid 
. wishes to take this opportunity to 
welcome to the Carnegie campus 
the -many upperclassmen who have 
returned to continue their- studies 
in the-Night school.during the 
rent.year. We extend an added welcome to. those young men and -women wno are matriculating this year at Carnegie for the.first tli 
-We commend the latter group on/its choice of. Institutions of higher learning. You are fortunate . having chosen' ' .
mahner In which you avail your
learn that It requires quite an ef-| . tort after working all day in an of- ilce to attend your night classes at Carnegie. You will, however, have some consolation In the fact that . you.arc bettering your condition by - your attendance at night school and;< lf at times you become dls- . couraged Just think of- this little Quotation of Thomas A. Edison, Success 1j one-tenth Inspiration aiidTnine-tenths perspiration."
: Ini order to give the night students an opportunity to relax from the monotony of school work, the Night; student council calls your
life at Carnegie. The time to be* . 'cDme interested in the various activities is in your first year. By participating in these activities you <wlli-become better'acquainted with -.yonr  fellow students. Many ''vluble friendships have been formed on. the . Night campus /through the meeting'of students having similar interests. , The Night 'stdnt council . encourages ; the night students who take an Interest in these extra-curricular activities by presenting them with an - -Insignia award for meritorious 
work.
ir^-To those of you who have been onthe campus previous to this year w renew our welcome. It', certaln- ^ ly-iinakeB. one feel good to see all the^.bld faces and .friends again. ..Many, of the former students who hjji-fonnd It necessaiy to drop out
are back again this year. That is the reat Carnegie spirit jmdi from all indications it would -appear that old,'man depression is \ way out. At least we hope
A^ItVup to the older students to contaict the new students and ac- : qnalnt' them with campus affairs..It's'.'unfortunate that the social - 'calendar, doesnt .embrace a, get* tpgethervfor .the entire night stu,1 ,'CORNELrUSA.BLOCHINGER 
Staff; H. A. Lahr M. GeraonW. J.Nolgot . A. C. Grimm. <: { D. O. Davls Biochi  v.l E.DrensenBlochinger W. A. Vensel r~..... G. McCormack
Volunteers Asked 
To Submit Names
With the opening of the Night 
school, a new social season will be 
ushered In. Tbe success of tbe 
Night school functions depends not 
only on the cooperation of the 
Night student council but alBo on the support of tbe entire student body.  One way to support the various events Is by your attendance at the .functions.
The Night student council, encourages the students who participate In this work by granting them points toward an Insignia award, which is presented In recognition of a student's activities record, al the close o'f the school year. Any student who wishes to assist in the preparation for the. Council funcand address to the Night Student Couucil, Box 136, Carnegie Institute ot Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
NewEligibility 
Rules Affect 
All Candidates
5Tis Said
THAT the only thing they forgot to ask the students on, registration night was the color of their hair.THAT ; Dean Tarbell took notes of'the line formed In front of his office.:THAT the Plaid wishes 'Herb" Stone a Happy Now Year. Better fate-than never.THAT tho Puppet will be
pression.That the pre-election promises have begun to make their appearance..THAT every-one Is looklpg
THAT the editor of "Night .Lights gets pains In the back of her head from eye strain. A suggested remedy: Send the boy friend home early.THAT the new fraternity pins have-provoked deep breathing among, the proud wearers.
During the -past- two .years; the 
Night student council ssinctloned
regulations - governing the 
eligibility and .tenure of office of 
the major officers ot the Night   ' ' re ap-aittee
Since then, however, much; adverse ' sent has been received regarding the rules.
In an effort to remedy the situation and make the rules, lesB string- at while still retaining the basic principles, tbe Night student
course of Its study, the committee contacted several of the Night students and sought their opihioi the subject. Many who were tacted agreed that the matter tendance hours as set forth in the rules should remain unchanged. After careful consideration, the imlttee drafted a new set of regulations. These. regulations were approved by the retiring Night student council as well as by the Faculty committee on Eligibility rules. They will become effective during the current school year.
der that the student body may become more familiar with these regulations, the Plaid
the Handbook. The offices of Council president, and individual college offices are listed as Elective offices while tbe offices ot Plaid editor and Social chairmen
student seeking an office is requlr- have earned passing grade in all subjects in the previous term only instead of for the entire year. No student may hold any one major office for more than two
As these* rules will be effective during the coming elections thestudents should have a clear idea of a candidate's standing before making any nominations.
DRESSES AND 
ACCESSORIES
rita ^
RITA M. LAHR 
MAyflower 9728
4526 FORBES STREET 
' PITTSBURGH, PA.
Choose your bank 
as you would choose 
afriend
 *
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
I, 4 I KOGKLEYS RESTAURANT
- - 'j 3710 FORBES STREET, NEAR OAKLAND AVENUE j
'4Delicious Lunches . . ^ . . . 25c, 30c, 35c j
 j DINE, DANCE EVERY EVENING . . . NO COVER CHARGE j
; NiQfft LlGBTS #1
"Orator' Haskins, the only man 
to really appreciate the Engineers, 
is back in  town after four years 
spent In Montana. Haskins made 
Engineering history when he stood 
up at one of their smokers and pro
ceeded to tell the Invited arcbii, artists, and industries men;
Scblossnagle (rccent sight grad now teaching night courses - In mathematics) has just finished passing out the cigarettes . . . It;s a girl. Dal McKelway worried all
calls his automobile . . . While Ed Blochinger still relies on that 1923 Chevy touring car to get him places so he can do things . . ' Bill Grant finally got his summer cottage finishedwith tbe first snow not far away! His friends finally suggested he call it quits and give the collage, to his wife for a ChristMatt Crawford and his spring bride are at home on S. Lang avenue . . . Bill Vensel admits it was homesickness for Carnegie that brought him back this year! ... Al Lois is still nursing that, bum knee as an excellent excuse for his poor golf scores.
Johnny Schurko is I now constructing designs for shop interiors out of hard rubber  little archi- tectSi what now? . . . A. G. Schneider and Henry Wheeler, two of the many mighty elms on the night caibpuB, received Night school scholarships from Carnegie last yearfour Ae did the trick.
Ardent Tecbites may be grieved to learn that there is a statuette of a panther in Dean Tarbell's of- Ice . . We were.sllight of our class .off ihots in the Thletl'e.
C.S. EDMANPRINTER
HAzl 0193
6470 mnitor Street
Huts and Arts 
Libraries Aid 
Night Classes
r' Throughout the school year 
.Night-students who-are registered 
in many of tbe courses will be 
obliged to do reference, reading in 
connection with their studies. The 
Carnegie library and the Hut are 
supplied with-books, technical pa
pers and periodicals- containing in
student will find the material of a voluminous nature and should endeavor to plck-oul the most modern
many of these reference assignments have been investigated; correlated and summarized in degree theses by Carnegie students. While theses required of the candidate tor
.contain original material, many of them are'the results of a year or more of comprehensive study and
mhldj work. \
Copies of all theses are available
Noted Critics To 
Offer Lectures
Of Interest to the night students 
at Carnegie and in particular to 
those who are registered in the Col
lege of Fine Arts is tbe proposed 
sris of, art-lectures-covering th 
1036 Carnegie International'exhibi
tion of paintings which will open 
during tbe current month. The 
series of Monday' night 1 lectrea 
which will be presented in Carnegie Music Hall, will begin October 21 and terminate November IB.
The lectures wlll.be Inaugurated by. Mr. Homer Salnt-Gaudens, director of fine arts at Carnegie Institute. Mr. Salnt-Gaudens has spent
itic of the New York Herald-Trl- bune, will speak on October 28, followed on November 4 by Miss Dorothy Adlow, art critic of Boston. On November 11, the lecture will be delivered by Mr. Dudley Crafts Watson, of the Art Institute of Chicago. Tbe series will be brought to a close on November IB by Mr. Ralph M. Pearson, author end critic of New York City.
hv addition, a series of three Sunday afternoon talks will be pre: s'ented In Carnegie Lecture hall. Mr..Elmer Stephen) director of art in the Pittsburgh public schools, will Bpeak oil.October 27, followed by Mr. Alfred O. Pelikan, director of the Mnlwaukee Ait institute, on November 3. The series will be concluded on November 10 by Mr. Watson. . .
TYPEWRITERS $14.95 TO $75.00
Liberal Terms . . . Free Trial
RENT A TYPEWRITERFirst Three Months* Rental Applies to Purchase Price.
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
644 LIBERTY AVENGE, McCloy Building 
Telephone ATlantl 8320 Established over twenty years
35 Handbook 
Obtainable At 
Council Office
There is still a supply of tho 
Night Student ' Handbooks ayailadid not receive their copy on the 
regularly scheduled nights of reg
istration. Studnts wishing a copy 
of th useful book may obtain it 
by calling at the Night student 
council office, on the first floor of 
the- Industries Building, presenting 
their registration cards. Many of. 
those students who registered late 
and missed the opportunity of get
ting a Handbook, are also urged to 
call at the Council room for their 
copy. The office will be open each 
evening from 7:00 to 7:30.
Registration Increases 
Over Previous Years
Registration for the . school year 
1935-36 points toward an estimated 
increase of 37 per cent over that of 
last year.. Registration for evening 
school during the regular three 
day registration period ending Oclo. ber 3;-1935-are as. follows:
College 'of' Eriglneei-ing' -Engineering courses ........ gjjVocational courses ........... 705College of Fine Arts ........... ssg
ing year 1934-35 during the i period was:College of Engineering Engineering courses '
Total ..............................1,547 
Registration for a comparative period in the peak year of 1931-32 shows a total of 2,120. These
THANK YOU  Pittsburgh has. responded with over
whelming onthuslasm to the "Theatre of Artistic Pictures. 
Thousands yet to discover this new thrill In entertainment will 
. be glad to know we have
HELD OVER FOR SECOND WEEK
The Soviet screen at Its artistic best"KASPER MONAHAN 
Exciting, thrilling, alive, significant  HAROLD COHEN
IIap: ayey
il
ENGLISH TITLESDOORS OPEN 11:30 A. M.
'h/Lore cigarettes are smoked today because
more people know about themthey are better advertised.
But the main reason for the increase is that' they are made 
bettermade of better tobaccos; then again the tobaccos are 
blendeda blend ~of Domestic and Turkish tobaccos. 
Chesterfield is made of mild, ripe tobaccos. 
Everything that science knows about is used in 
making it a milder and better-tasting cigarette.
liii trfriiiMir Ti'i'T" liitrf
We believe you will enjoy then}.
