Jlen must be at hberty<to 
gay in Print whatever they have in mind to. say, pro
vided it wrongs no one. ;
Coronation, 
Ball Opens 
15th Annual 
Campus Week
Ceremony .Ia; in Sylvan 
Theater; Ryshanek, 
Eichler t6 Play
PLAN ROLLER SKATE 
DERBY FOR GIRLS
Belay Race for Co-ed Groups 
Is Innovation; Football 
Game Will' Follow
Carnegie's fifteenth annual spring 
ceroivnl will be formally opened 
by ifie coronation ot Campus Queenelect Vautrinot. The ceremony is 
lo De in the Sylvan theater at nine 
oclock. F; RoyMinet 35, Depart
ment of Drama, has written the ceremony whith will be used perma- - jeotJ.v.Will Ryehanek and Fran- Eichler ill play at the ball following the eoroimtiou. The symnaeitim and
charge plane to decorate both halls my elaborately.' .several new features have been added to this years carui\al pro* gram. A rollerskate derby for all girls' organizations has been arranged for Friday afternoon. This 
race will be a Telay. .with four girls to a team. The cours follows Margaret Morrison street from Margaret Morrison past the Hut, around Ihe Administration ball and then back to the gymnasium along Frew slreet. A trophy will he awarded lo the winning .tea'm.Football Game Planned
_______ This- game, will enablethe students, to. see. the. r.eaults- of tbe present 'spring .training; sessio< and will afford an opportunity, to see the potential, strength of the team. Between the halves, \ the campus clowns Charles and Provost arc to supply some entertainment.Following Call/Say. exercises Saturday afternoon a Tea . dance will be held In Thistle,.hall.. This Je the flvat ifme'ra^h^a'^Qiic^Tiaa been on tbe carnival- program.'   -\ Tickets for this gears, carnival
ticket includes ' admiflslon to the Coronation ball,r the Costume ball, the BacchanalSan play'ln the Davis theater, and a subscription to the Carnivalian. No tickets will sold at the door for. ajiy of the functions. Additional tickets for . the play tor either Friday or Saturday
Alumni. Invited *Invitations have ''been sent . aluhwi inviting them to return 1 tlieir alma mater for this festival, said carnival chairman Dana. Any alumni contemplating attending
mer day the preliminaries will be run, with the finals on the' latter following the design..contests,.''
John F. Laboon 12, prefildei the Athletic council at Carn who has .-recently been named works director' of the Allegheny County Emergency Relief Board.
Acting President 
Attends Forum
Executives Will Discuss 
Teachers Certificate
meeting of the Association of.jColr. lege Presidents' of- Pennsylvania- and State Council of Education to oe held in the forum .o'f the.'State Education building at Harrisburg on Friday evening.The purpose of this meeting is to afford an opportunity .to discuss questions concerning the preparation and certlflcatloriof teachers In l*>e publjc. school .system of the state. Tlj'e nia/if-qii'eSfIbft' to! be- dlsV cussed Is the possibility of requlrDr. Watkins, personal opinion concerning this question Is that the; creation of an unprejudiced eiait- ntng board consisting of everts In no various fields woiild^da -more toward raising ttie standard for' leachers than, any fifth year- revirement, which-might only cause lue students preparing-to teach'to coni,uU6 pool- work in a'-poor insertion.The following day, Saturday, Dr. 7 atklns will attend-'the'-inaugiita.-' tion of Pvealdent  Corsn at ' Dickin-.: College in Carlisle. . President
Degree Ring Orders 
Taken mAlumni Office
?e>' way be ordered any-.day be- |*een 9 and 12 oclock' in the morn-' 1 and 4 ::80 in the afternoon, wacrs paid for.in full before May ifkt111 W ready-for;, distribution < the Alumni office on: June 7. The' ^auate ring may be worn only ^^olders of a degree awarded by
Carnegie Men 
Are Appointed 
To Head Relief I
J.F. Laboon, P.F. Murphy 
To Direfct Employment 
And Works Program
John >F. Laboon, president of the 
Carnegie Athletic council,, and Paul 
F.r Murphy,. both of whom studied 
engineering at Carnegie, have re
cently been, appointed tq.responsibl ..positions ..in the Federal-Stfte 
rllf organizations of' Western 
Pennsylvania..  
Mr. Laboon, in his new capacity, 
will succeed James L. Stewart'^e 
works director of the Allegheny 
County Emergency Reliefyjprdl 
This appointment was vjiiade by 
State, Relief AdrainistrktoOlobert 
U Johnston. Mr. Mrsk^sjlie, 
appointment came from tif.Estate 
^i^r^tar^^i''lah6T'i'^nd'^dtIBtiT,v 
will supervise the Pittsburgh, office' 
of the Federal-State Employment 
Service,-
'Mr. Laboon, a member of the en
gineering firm of Chester, Cboon, 
Campbell, Davis, and Bankson, was 
graduated from, the Department of 
Civil Engineering in! 1012. 'He Is 
also a member of the American So
ciety..f. Civil Engineers, and the 
Engineers Society of Western 
Pennsylvania, His connections in 
the field of engineering wore th basis upon which, his appointment' 
was made.air. Murphy, who was graduated from the College of Engineering in 1913, has gained much experience in employment placing arid Jolh flnding in the Business Service Company,.with which he Jiaa been connected for 16 years and .of which he Js now treasurer and alreccor.
M.M. Alumnae 
Fete Seniors
Annual Tea Is in Home 
Management House
The  Margaret Morrison Alumni 
association will, give its annulai tea 
for the. members of the. senior, class' 
of Margaret Morrison on, Saturday 
afternoon from ? to 6 oclock in the 
home management house on Mar
garet Morrison street. Martha 
Demins 35, president of the senior 
ciass and Jane C. Herrold 12, president of the Alumni association, 
will receive.Special guests, In addition to the seniors and faculty of Margaret Morrison, include Dr. Bker, Miss Mary Watson Green, Dr. and Mrs. Watkins! Miss Julia Morgan Hard- Mlss Ruth Andrews, Mrs. Pbil- pdt, Mrs. James M. Graham,, Jr., James K. Everhart, Miss 5 Merrill, Mise Agnes Bird, And Miss Sara Leach.', '.Mrs., Herrold, .assisted, by .the members' of the excutive board of the Association, as well as by class representatives who will serve as aides; is in charge of the tea, >
Cast Chosen 
For Spring 
Carnival Play
P* Rowles Takes* Lead', 
In Rosemary Caseys I 
Shining Armour*
PERFORMANCE OPEN I 
TO GENERAL PUBLIC j
Carnival Tickets Will Admit, 
Students to Production ^ 
Saturday, May 10
. .The . cast for the Bacchuuallan 
Spring Carnival play, Shining 
Armour," has been chosen .md re
hearsals nre under way. Polly 
Rowles 35, Department of Drama, 
will play the lead in the produc
tion.
Tbe show wlil open at the Davis 
theater, May 10. This performance 
is open to the general public. The 
fQllowing uight it will be played 
again, in the same theater as part 
of the Spring Carnival, and will be 
open only to Carnival ticket holdPatrick '38, Patti Llttell 35, Malcolm Milligan  '37, and George Lloyd 37. Chester Wallace, is directing the production.
Mlse Rosemary CaBey, Pittsburgh playwright, and author of Shlhlng Armour" has been attending the' hearsals. B. Ides Payne 1 mer director of drama at Carnegie, collaborated with Miss Casey on this play.' Mies Casey's Love Is Not Important Jle last year Baccbanaljan 'show.
Carl ..Dozer-36 is'chairman c the s.committee in. charge of- the show. He has announced that there are .places open to students interested :in the technical side of the production. These are not necessarily-limited to drama students; the Bacohanallau society is school organization. Activities keys jtre given for two years work.Any.; boys Interested in working for tbe Bacchanalians should communicate with Joseph Baicbeller '36.' ..-Girls should get intouchwlth
Vice Pressent.Secretary.';...........Dorothy Long;Treasurer...Margaret McKon 
"'WOM6N,S*'ATHtiETIC'  ' '
Vice President.........Maud BowersSecretary-Treasurer............... '........... Marjorie Greo
Y. W. C. A,President..............Louise M.eixnerVice President..........Ruth Nicholsetary.. . .Mortha Lou Fullerisurer----......Doris Dietrich
MARGARET MORRISON Sophomore Class ident.........,.......Mary VllsackVici
Secretary.
W.A.A. Holds 
Awards Day
High School Girls Have 
Play Day Saturday
The W. A. A. la holding thci 
Annual' Awards party tomorrow I 
the Womens Qymhaoium from four 
six oclock^
Women who have earned 
hundred points will, receive m
9e with eight hundred will 
receive a pin. Those girls who ha' 
received' one-thousand points w 
receive white blazers- with a !1C. Womens Athletic association, sponsors its yearly, high school
six high schoolsplay day this Saturday.
invited to.pa s and tht ' represent school. Hockey, baseball, speedbnll will be played"Lat'elr'there  i the gymnasium. Mary Wettach !
ill be aiunte> the co-chairmea.
Campus Broadcast |
Today at lr30 Carnegie.presents Aurcito Greslin in a fifteen minute piano concert over etatlpn WWSW.
TbHTflijay ! the Mozart trio will broadcast a flfteen'mlnutfe progTani. The irlo. is'.Vlncent Plundo, darl-1 'net; Mildred Cox, piano, and Samuil Single, cello., , The. program 
goes on the jiir at. 1:30. . .*. |
' -'seven-lifteen' Friday brings the Tartan Quarter-hour with Helen Jayae, Wiies : 'singeiv the Scotch lassies Alyce Philpott and Betty. I Schrack, and announcer .Carl! r.- Guest speakers will be the; - editor of the Tartan and Tom, Dana- chairman of the Spring  Car. I 
nival.'-- ..   I
AJJ programs will originate In the Exhibition hall ttudio
Glider Clubs Ship 
Wrecked in Flight
lor Boyer, vloe president of the club, was. piloting the ship to a. landing when ihe ship- crashed. Boyer wasunhurt.' . ' ........ .-Repairs on th . damaged wing were iicgun immediately. It Is expected that the flyers will be grounded fgr about two weeks.^ During the- Easter vacation, sev-?n Glider club members were trained to... take-off,' fly straight ahead and make a creditable landing. Five ot the seven students glided' to an'altitude of more thanift. feet..... ........; - ... :Iti addition .to repairing the plaid- toied glider the dub. members __:e conditioning  tlie Evans all: steel ship%whicb .was given to them by Westingh.ouse. -
Math. Group 
To Hold, Dinner]
The' armuafdStner .of' ih/Mth- ematics octloi, -Wetern conven tion district,:.P. Sv E; A., will;be held on Thursday evening at 6:30 clock In the Carnegie : Tnn. Speak- _rs will Include Rev. Paul' E. Campheil,-superintendent of Parish
ment ot. Mathematics; and Prof. James Taylor, University f Pittsburgh. All those interested in maUietnatics are Invited to 'attendi/ Reservations . at one r dollar- pier plate may be made with Dr. Edwin G Olds
Adelaide Aschmann.Secretary............ ..Mnry YorkeIVeaBurer........Dolores ThompsonSenate. Representative.................................Katherine CollinsSocial Chairman ...................
................... Margaret Sheek>y
Junior ClassPresident...............Dorothy BoothVice President ....... >
. Margaret Fitzgerald......... . Helen StulenTiCRsurer... .Katherine. Schreibeis Assistant Secretaries to Student council, Alpha Black, Jane Tier- nan, Alberta McClure.Senate Representative ........<........................ Helen McCrea
Senior Class - [i.President...........Mary LoraVice President,........Betty LehrSecretary.......... Betty Hawthorne 1Treasurer..............Ruth Kennedy iSenate Representative ........Sally CrNimadiOutgoing SenioreAlumnae President
Martha Demins
Presidents...'... .Horace Blue Vice President: .Florence Ibghram Secretary.....'..Emmy BumgarnerTreasurer..-.'......Regis Harrington'Junior ClassPresident.----V.. ..Wilfred SlocumVice Presidents. .-.Barbara Yoakurii Secretary..... .William Livingston Assistant Treasurer to . Student council.... .-...-.Thomas Koehler Senior Class' 'President................-.James HughesVice President.......Evelyn LelglionSecretary.'; ----:.. .Alyce PhilpottTreasurer..............Elken AvnerAthletic Representative......................... ....... Louis ReidCOLLEGE OP ENGINEERING Sophomore ClassPresident...........James M. PhillipsVice President.........John A. Wagg
Preslileut.Vice President. S.ecvetnry
Lee Hammerschmidt Robert S. Aaron Hay Duke
.. Robert Greiner .. Clitton Boutelle .Donald IlersheyTreasurer.......Evans ChcesemanStudent council Representatives, Robert. Croyle, Kenneth Knapp,
. John Ewalt, Frank. Sanford
CARNEGIE CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONresident...........Robert CoWentzrJce President .................... George Lnmbertson-ecretary'............William Shaffer65 New Glass Officers Elected for 19S5-B6 Term Last Tuesday
New Council Members 
Will Attend First 
Meeting May 21
|PE# mEOKN-T-DRA WS 
TEN SPECTATORS
Voting Is Close, Statistics | 
Show; VanValkenburgh 
Wins Senate Race
Sixty-flve students were elected 
< class offices for the 1935-36 term 
st Tuesday. Of ': this., number 
eleven- will, serve as voting 1 
hers 'on Student council and nine.
; non-voting members.
The election marked tbe first 
open count of ballots in recent.
i. Tlie official tallying, which 
took place in the Christian asso
ciation club room last Tuesday, at.cted about ten onlookers lnmltteuily- throughout the after*
Six class presidents, four Student 
council representatives, and the 
'ice president of the Engineering 
Senate wllVbe t voting miembers 
of Student council. The president 
of the sophomore classes, the 
sistant treasurer., of Student c< 
ell and - th assistant secretaries 
e_the jQoa-yoting nieinbdrs.
The joint meeting of the new;. Student council and out-going Student -council will take place May 21;  .
As little as. two votes pelted defeat for.ohe. candidate.
Lester Van Valkenburgh 36, recently- named editor-in-chief of the- Puppet, was elected vice president of the Engineering Senate to replace Addison L. Gilmore '36 who: was elecLed-to- the presidency of.
Sfu'dent council., ' '
Printers Get Press 
And Hear Lecture
Homer Winkler, assistant man: 
ager of the Ace Eiectrotpye com
pany of Cleveland, Ohio,v-will give 
public lecture oh\nRubberrPiateS' for Letterpriess*- Printing"  next* Tuesday at 3:30 o'clock. This talk will be an informative, discussion* >f tlie advantages and possibilities
be : ''prepared;'.- ' Successful ;prihting:'appllctin\' for / rubber Opiates; will be.; outlined,;,together.
iRg: S-im^es-'ofr-niitetiais; -moldsnmplates' n(I,.pjntlnjg: '--wriirbe  sliown^ 
 Mlll.r.- Simplex.automatic' iprliithig-pies'e-has been substituted, 'for- the .' Miller High ' Speed- .which liaie been oii loan for. a number ot years Iti- th Pressroom, of .tfte Ptlrit-' Ing depuftmcn^ . The- ne^v. prse. has an automatic forced-fee'd .olHag.systerii- which.' is a great-improved ment over the previous0 hand-blllriij process. It >is the Only . automatic ;0Uins.'unIt.'0n *the^market^'.The press 'has - aerated speeds of '-'4i506. copies^ hour. and ran its firstHob' exhibition night : ?
70 Students 
Awaiting Cook, 
Fo-rest-Trip
Program Includes Hikes, 
Talks, Installation 
Of Officers
i for the annual Christian u
Pennsylvania forest. The'two days will be rfllled witli hikes, talks, and equally Is. . tor the various m Alan Bl'ight, Trof, B. C. Dennison, Prof. C. G. Dimnells, Dr. L. R. Guild, Dr. John Ray Ewers, pastor cf the EastEnd Christian .Church;- Dr. W. N. Jones, Dr. Hugh Thompson Kerr, pastor of the Sliadyelde Presbyterian Church,N. R. High Moor, of Trinity Cathedral: and Allen E. Rlaedorpb.' Dinner at Cook'tnn The' retreat opens on' Friday night with dinner at Cook Inn. Following the dinner there will be a 'ound the fireplace or tne tb William Sharp, president
slon after Jjunch.. Following the meeting- will be the annual ball game between.the faculty.and the students. The installation' of the Christian association will follow Saturday supper. The -men. In charge '<jf"tue Installation are Prof, Dennison, Prof. C. G. Dun- nells, Prof. H. k. KlrkPatrick, and R. -V. Davis, secretary of the Chris' t(an Association. /. Following Sunday dinner- the party intends to leave for Pittsburgh and home.cost of the outlrig Is defrayAlan 'Bright 
Named Head 
Of Registrars
700 Colleges Members 
Of Tiationa 1 (roup 
Which He Leads
DEAN A. W. TARBELL 
HELD OFFICE IN 1918
\ioo8 from' faculty members, and a small fee paid by students attending. Transportation is provided by faculty members and students ;o90Cssiag cars.The coniihlltee in charge of ar? rangements for th retreat was .Clifton ,C. BouteUe. Allah E. Rise- doVpli, Kent D. Shaffer, and Wll- liani' Sharp. ' .
. SNIOR INTERVIEWMr. R. W. Johns,on, employment manager of Leeds and Northrup of Philadelphia will interview seniors bf tlie Department of Electrical Engineering, on Friday, May 3.
Coming Events
2:30-HC. C..A. leaves for Cooks Forest.
16-jTartan Quarter hour WWSW;  -Salucd.ay^-
Numerous College Problems 
Brought to Association 
At Its Meetings
Alan Bright, ReglHivoiv during 
 recent convention In Raleigh, 
Novlh Carolina, was elected pres
ident of the. American Association 
of Collegiate Registrars, an organizntlou whose niembersbip is 
posed of about 700 college and 
university registrars from ull 
the country.
Mr. Bright acknowledges his po
sition to be not a tribute to hliuself, 
but a tribute to Cnrnegle. "It Its 
the institution .which commands at
tention rather than the individual, 
lie suid. "The Bchool has had a 
remarkable development ln the past 
thirty years.
Graduated From' Carnegie 
As a graduate of Carnegie, Mr. 
Bright bus been In a position U serve the progress of his-alma ter. After seven years work in the field of engineering at both the
called back to Carnegie In the spring of 1916 fo succeed A, W. TarbelJ, now Dean of Men, aa Registrar. In this capacity he has served since that time.. As soon os' he became. Registrar at'C.nrnegle, Mr. Bright joined the American Association, of ,Collegiate 
Registrars. - Since then .he has be- tome very active member of that organization. Five years ago he
years he has presided over the university section, of the organization.Honor Accorded for Second Time!This marks the second time that a :Carhegle Registrar has been cotdotL. . this /;> honor.  Registrar. iBcIgbLsi.wpredece6sor..lAtthur.-W..
include educational measurement,, administration; and registration procedureproblems widely
'procedures.'"It is owing il k of the association" [r. Bright, that metbc _ :e have been, slmpliflt that work here has progressed."
Death Claims Life 
Of Arts Student
Syl-rta Reelisa Smith, 20, a freshman In the Department of Painting and Design, died at her home, 5727 Solway Street, Thursday evening.
Funeral,
terday from 'the family residence. Interment wi ' 
Death was tuberculosis.
> held , 'yesr . residence, s In Homewood Cernecaused by pulmonary
New Approach Plans - Fo r: B r ow n Ho u s.e 1 Reviewed By Council
Beads Registrars^
Alan BrlQht hse been elected president of the American -Association of Collegiate -Registrars..- This le the second time .Carnegie has
Debate! Team 
Will Address 
Safety Valve
Formation of Anti-War 
Committed to Be 
Discussed
; Six members of the Carnegie Debating association ' wIll -Bpeak' for members-of the Safety Valve Thursday on the question,  solved that ..the nations agree to prevent'-the'International ' shipment or arma and' munitions."Alao iat thlfl meeting the forma .UQn-o_a.4Hy:raa,nontlar,Deie^an4,. war commlttee- wlH be dlBcuesed A statement of the' organization of 'such a coinmlttee has been turned In to Student council-for.consldera- tion at its meeting tonight.' Shortly before- the  Easter recess a group of students, met. to heof Serrll Gerber, American delegate to last year's World Youth- congress at Brussels,> at.which congress the Idea for the recent April 12 antiwar, demonstration was proposed, Mr. Gorber apoke of what occurred at that congress rtnd suggested that the.student movement' against.war bgiiii oh April 12' be continued on campus throughout the country.Those present at the meeting drew, up and slgned a petition for the-formation' of a committee that would continue the activities against war'and.1 cooperate with similar groups'oh other campuseB.
Four Sketches Selected 
, Best Plan Presented 
By Wm. Flynn
ESTIMATE COST 
OF EACH SCHEME
Suggestions for Converting 
Womens Tennis Court 
Into Flaza Mde
coherent and articulate,.
People You Ought to Know...\
. By Clifton p. Boutelle
Regis Joyce, Drama, Dragon and Council
The other day I strolled in to see Regis Joyce, drama Eludent, Dragon, and cx-cditor of tho Thistle. Ue was m his dressing..romu makmg up for his parfc m Inhoia."'. Over bis'dress- mg table us a picture of a girl drawn by the noothsaycr Sagger- soii. It bears the inscription, Success to Joyce  Reis Bays: Every time I look at the picture I become inspired."He loves horses; friends say he*
.< Tile i-BBuitinB sketches of the re
cent probletu^-an approach to. the 
Brown House, which, was given to 
tho seniors in tbe Deportment,.pf 
Architecture, in coujunctlou with 
the current drive to -make tho v 
Drown House an activities build
ing, were reviewed Inst weoic. l)y 
[i committee from the Student council.
Four schemes were selected fty the coimnlttee. Thut of Willlanv V- I^Jyni) '3r*. tvn9 considered the heet ^ by both the faculty of the depan- - ment und the Student oouncll. com- 1 mlttee. It involved tho abandon- mg of tho presont wonioni
tennis courts aiid Margaret Mohri* ii College: Mr.; Flynn euggestd :;^ his Bketeh tbe les of,a pool and T : planting on the. borders oE ' tho i .plaza. He took hia approach ,irom'^^ the.plaza, around thg slojie of'th';!-' hiii and allowed It to arrive at-. the re
main rear entrance of the houseIt must flrst be determined, ~
thet|f^9pL authorities muet b6 secured,-before-suoh-a scheme could be offected.: : "sy-vt;
Double Approach Suggested 
A. second scheme by Nicholas L< Maczkov 3d suggested a doulrin 
approach, one from the Bide facing the cut and'.the.other from tho Margaret tbahrsby Carneglo side
.S5. Vere considered very praoticM- - solutions;, involving a continuation of the present- flight of steps leaa- .v 
ir.g to the tennig Coiirt: .':Mr...-^ Mllono s scheme, however, had the 
approach grinding ;from there ih a'i:? leisurely nmnner around the hill on the aide, toward the cut and nrrlv- ~ at the front entrance, wtiil ^ 
aptiroa'ch;'!
ed s T w w w.
expense.-of each, could be modi'After that, the commute intiar-" the four solutions to th&--ii trustees at;  thelr'''nex0';'
--------------
Carnegie Students ' 
Seek Scholarship :
Two Architects Are Finalists 
In Stewardson Contest
William V, Flynn'36 and. William. Trimble 95, students in1 the'De- 'i-' partaient of . Architecture.'  iav"' ^ '' been chosen as finalists, in th petition for the John Stew.ardabii.^i Memorial Scholrehlp In Architc^# ture. Tills scholarship, which ^is ; offered annually, has the mlu- one thousand, dollars, the .holder'di^f! which Is to pursue the study of :av^nriorefgnchitecture-In this nintries.
.. Only .persons- who- ehall hav
etudJedorpractlcdverchltectV^nState of Pennsylvania-!- for :tb'
Is bowlegged ..on-Monday from, rid
ing no much over. the week-end. 
Last summer he rode broncos in
what he wanted to do. Playing -bits
wanted -to be a
/ -SShis big ambition.1 He-knocked'a. Sophomore cold during. Plebe initiation . The puglllstic. game was set aside and ' one-, summed, he -.played. 
.aisb.t;;..taB.dsjJn.,amail:>^3^V.:\ln the fail, he entered Teh, . ..
activities, man. he has ;  chain ftiill ofikeys. ' Variety :is.'ihe spice ot life, and Regis sought spice . and : fun : In vctlvtis. E have put the\ keys away, s and Ill look at them.when.I.am^old.. They, will'bring.'back 'metaoriea/ - I do things . for fun, not iame. He . is piibllcattohs ' chairman of. Student council.
Hie.A-por^ayUvof";',LllIom,7.a Hungarian.clown, ls hls^best.liked Tole.. -'Lying dead upon the floor after committing- suicide Je the
period of at least one year imhiedi ^ ately. preceding : the scboie^Ip award, are eligible -to: com^te -foir-;^- the scholarship, and the. candi-^i hardest part. of my acting |h' the' otes must not be less than twenty-Vji5 play, he says. I two or over thirty years of age: pn T: '^
For him street cars are the best w rc^.' ^ AlSo( they.?,mu'st'i.classrooms- for studying people. ha<^.i0r yearG'Iii-fltudyVofejQK^ There Is drama In every face. He' Practice or both;- The' eompeilof the regular cast, he has bean culled upon to act every part.
We. have seen Regis walking about, the campus with, .a I " puppy on the end of. a leash, won the dog.in a card game. The was Baron but,the
j-'of his best, friends.One . summei;: be set up'a business selling', deviled crabs In Pitts-: burgh.. He. had'ian offlce and-all the. makings o-.a ;big; .business^ including th. , financial troubled, but In the fall he :was able to dose* up the crab'-buslnesa .without uslnjg;
Drama': Department team that! lost to the architects this fall. ^ ^ >,. Regis' -.admits:- that- , he -Is impulsive: but: for ani ,actor ;thle,:ie no fault.i.Sdme.dav< heHopes tn All: producer- - -  world.;;:;Last summer; 'while* ini f-TeiaiW got Jn the way of his-auto]
chair .in the movie.
Boseyydledi In a huiry,.___.was the 'biggest, piece of beef I 
saw/saysRetia^Xiastweek (Continued on page Two) :
For ^lie past two ye.ire Cnrnccrio i men have held the 8CholarBhlhyC::t,S with Henry A., Jandl 3p winning>jfc:'i'J In .1933,= and,James A. Mitchelli*3&v ; wlnning lt la6t yar.' '
Diction Contest 
Scheduled Mom
tlie.Department of Dramu .ill taku place 4 ; 30 o clock. next Monday kft- ernoon inV.the; Llttle theater.'vPiitotallng,;$10.0,00; wiH'be.rwftrded?tfw
Th' ]iir|K)Ho of th*> contsMt is I emphasize- stage, diction and iptt_, courage good epeech.v The'reMlh^ofiassages.vfrom.-v'the'.v'^
Church,, president' oi'Carnegfet stitute : : Carroll Fitehugli;--pre'Bfti' of .the Stage and 'Play socaety*^ Mrs. ..Helen- Stout,,\dlrectorc of^ Pittsburgh Playhouse.   - ^ ^
. The: T'ubile. Is. Invited ;itO___the contest, ; There li no Chart* admluloD, - 

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. APRIL 045 6309
aPtie <2Tarne(Jie 3Tartau
PHONE MAYFLOWER
i En*' ' . th Plttabntli Pot Offlc? <oJghiPwrvd matUft.
MatHABOLD J. BAEH ---OJ HANSON__MABGBET GBJFF1N' Aperta Editor.
MCCAEd^rtol -InimtBT .y,p;CI,SWoans Sporta Edllor_______HABJOH1K C. GREEKCOPY -.EDITOR: - "---
ar. ' Emily Kramer. BownaJT PltR*. 
-Alph? Black. ThroUyer. Robert Fra
JDNIOB EDITORS W^tsr Adamson, ClUbon
TTR SmTTTkaR,E<<c6LEL AElic&wib StaBitHiawllA Wttbuo.' REPORTERS: Ixmlse ~
' Katharine'Gumtuui, Betty Gloaaon.- Gw Halierty, Jr..-- Betty Ja HeTOld, U>Ib Horaer. HorUiiiM ' Klnabacker,Fred UrtnBrtffD'.WlUiMU Lord, Eleanor Lowi*7. Alberta McCtarc, Sylvia Odlo, Ruifa Peitl- nu, SrlvisBavlck, Adelaide Remington. .Euerala  Rowland. ' Mary ' Schlir. Katherine SchwltaU, -Albert Scbwurt*. .John Shear. Jon Stowart,. Geolvev St'raeealey.- Josoph Thoma. Paul -Wotaon, Kolh Welter. Nlh YorVe, Robert Zleduwn. . SPORTS'STAFF i J. Scott Charle, Jaioc Hnghei. Edwin MallfgsD. Addtn Gilmore. John WelnJ-TC Eogcoo Fergueoo, Paul Sehwartz, Kiell .Lynsbetm.. BUSINESS' STAFF Joo AJIon, Robert ^GjreLnor. Jeromo  Koppol, Alexander Poul, ' Jock Grdnor. Jems' T^ytin. Kdth-McCdWheon,.Ponald ^."*5?' Moeiow. Robert Aaron. Dan Wcllr. Donald ZoloiSn, narr/ Ziff. Daniel Supon. Frederick Herr. CIRCULATION STAFF: Albert ObrerbKn Manager; A.
. Mary Lou Scht&j STAFF' ; ARTISTS: 0.
Slckenberger, Marjorio
i More Tilled Positions or Leaders
 ' fTlARNEGIE students have elected their ne'
: - leaders .for the coming year. Or is%ou 
imagination playing tie tricks again when w 
 say "leaders?" It -would he more factual to 
) \ :: say that a new set of class officers have been 
il; elected. Whether they will be leader? or not 
.depends upon each individual. These can 
  make oi their positions what they wilL
. An .investigation into the duties of class offl cers .-.'which was; made: last year disclosed be*
: yohd a-doubt that .the majoritythe great ma-jority, of the-positions were merely titled offlees;' totally-Inactive and blissfully- unaware 
% ofvwhatever.'/responsibility they night have,
: ,j -True, there isnt V great'deal to be done in the 
>: ii /way ot dutlesV nevertheless most new officers 
'y: willflnd themselves with seats on either their. 
 pwn college,, senates or'on Student council.' 
We are .primarily concerned wltli the latter1 
. group,: th<^ new members of Student council. 
:viv' y'Th bsiness of governing^ the student affairs 
-p..- 6t;ihe :8Ch9ol . -is. a; responsibility which falls 
;(i .' !'npbn ALL-membere 6EStSent council 'and 
just'. a tew who. have ttikea that responsl' 
ir-' biiity uponthmpeves!.' When''these newly 
{elected, officers handed in their petitions for 
 v ^'nlji^tion, they. were. expressing their willingi.nes^.' to'.aasutD .whatever responsibility went 
vV wHh,.Sji..ofllce.- Now .that' they-are' elected,' 
}%<?.the must aee tO 'it that that-vesponslbilityis 
r;-  jibt. shirked or' neglected..
V^L-bri V regrettable 'feature of  previous' 
Student..conncils that-so few.oMts members: 
aetoially ttfok a-deep interest In  the affairs of 
ii . th-: student bgdy they were supposed to be 
i-1 governing. Consequently, It has tecome. the 
V very . rarest of occasions when all members 
.^i;' ;of;Student' councU express an opinion or cast 
^;::"6.;vote on some particular matter.  The i 
t.';:' .' common occurrence, is t have discussion 
*: : Tied.' on bv one or-two people. lf there is any 
-discussion at all, and the voles cast by eight 
L'OH^niae. .Th rest will listen attentively; but 
swill^ in effect, have served no better purpose 
i'^?/::{han-to/have provided the meeting wltb Buffl^f::: cient numbers for a quorum. That is what we 
:^';';'inee.n-:: by.' neglecting, reaponelbllity  the^ uq^willingness to enter into discussion and, ex-- press fin opinion or at least to cast n vote. 
^I'iv'We believe that council members should serve 
^^ 'bettef purpose than merely answering the 
^rvroll call. ' We hope that the new Student coun-. 
; V-ll'i'will J
By. EDWARD PRICE BELL
Unity.Comptete- internal harmony.
Thorough'- knowledge of Germany, It* hit 
tory^,geography,, geolojy, zoqlo^yT;jnd.'b<ibny.-
A patriotism' wh'lcfi .embraces, botfi natural 
and human Germany, seeks Its highest spirit* 
uat. and material welfare, and,.renounces all' 
thought of .aggressive war. > i' .Those are the objectives,.- one.) Hears'.pro
claimed as one sits listening , to a typical 
young academic'National Socialist s tho Ger
many of the present hour.' Of hls' trtter eln-, cerity there caoi be no doubt. Of his passion* ate feeling' there can be no doubt. . Neither -can there be any doubt of the high degree of- his intellectual discipline and his ratioclnntive power.
He knows how he feels and what he .thinkd.
Aod he Is on lire to:work, to face hardship, to eftcrldce. and (If necessary) to.light for.his ideals.' He is .tbe very onlJthesJs of apathy, negativity, irresolution, and lack- of courage. He is a' force -witti-a clear title, to the worlds careful; thought;, 'not. its .prejudice, but its thought', 
Dr. Theodor Wilhelm, editor of the International Education Review, is such a mun. a tall, "1-knit, keen-faced studeut, rather highUniversity and speaks - English with a Lanham- knowledge, and patriotism?
The Architects- Gome Through
RINGING; the Brown house nearer thecampus so.tbiat'it would, be more suitable 
i^s^n -ctlvItJes building than it is now/ls a.job. 
;:5'\fr:i'-mglcla-'ot exceedingly rare ability.. 
i\%;''But?sine. Merlin lived in-the sixth century 
^..(^ther' Is! no one.ltoday of such, remarkable 
t  - Tgiift  .we could, turn to to do the trick, 
f;^Jf^mit;'resort to other measures.: Weinjist. 
t-i^^mliuriilze-'the effect of dlstauce ao that that. 
~'<X:'bjecfeon. is hardly felt and hence .practically 
Tefa^yed.,
-~v;.r./'At; present a-steep, uncomfortable wooden 
itirwy wliich is the only existing approach 
^::fi'tbe.:;Bro^:hs from the, campG SO esag;r^|*'r-e^rήs :Siid  emphasizes the distance , that tUe 
gVri./edtce,^ even-'nuore remote, than the big
r''.j. lilIMt- stands upon, warrauts. That hill can be 
^^ovarcome,: and if we' are to judge .by the re*
:= ^sulta^f  th; competition recently held in the 
~l^>>^3fep.artment. of.rchitectu?e-for a more suiti-tji able. approach, it can be overcome in an easy, 
leisurely fashion that makes th Brown house 
accessible and inviting to the students 
than.'it.ever was.,
^j- i'^Four schemes were chosen as practical sugp|i(gestlons-as'to how to meet the problem. Of 
^;^e^ur::we-agree' with the jury-that Mr. Wil* 
farthest, 
is now an ex*
^^tiemely'; ugly- hillside,- in addition to providing. 
fe^>r^6ry.. adequate approach:. However, since it 
fe^lnv;o!ve8: transforming the newly built W.- A. 
I^^^thhis' court into an open plaza archltecturl^^iM?-T.%t4vA? ^! ^?^ng,'place to provide a, 
^p^K^'iQjr-tsnnis-imitches.and of the .campus, it 
|jj|^TOuonable. to Relieve that-it will meet with 
i^nuc> objection 
:Jow<ivcr--it seeasa to usihat-tJie-^an:. offers 
^jadvantages to the entire student, body In 
iray^o'f ft fine approach to the ij-Brown: 
*^an ^open lounge affording an excellent-, 
and va permanent -beaut|fl.cati6n;; of an 
e on the- campds. and- as such it should 
;fiven:a--grcat. deal-of: consideration. . Since, 
^onlng^thS'Womena teimla.court- for such 
;pui^ose would affct the dorm girle.who are 
Sbeneflclarles of the court, we might eug-jthat an oplnlon be cotten from-them as 
- Li- how thfey feel ^bout the,matter. It 
^is belng something worthwhile tr,r-' ';i-v..T\t ' ( <
asks of Dr/Wilhelm.
Through education, he replies.
Out of books?
Some of it,out of books,-much more of it out of life. Education is a term with a new meaning in Germany: It'represents sbmething wholly different from, and much more important than,'anything It ever represented Jn the >ld Germany, the Germany prior to National
les of the hui struggle. Now It means books and work, study and experience. It means brain' work and hand work. It means the &chool and the field, it means; teachers' and pupils, but different and better teachers and pupils, leachsolldarity, the -disappearance of classes and privilege,- an organic' national life, freedom frorti strife.. ( 
"Dut you have had a groat deal of strife, .havent you?"
X'e have hatf ft. revolution, and revoHitl'ons^ always involvfi.strife. [Proportionately, to what we have achieved in political and social change, and in economic rehabilitation, the strife we have' bad has -been Inconsiderable. But I am not speaking of. the past. I am -speaking of National Socialist ideals and purposes-and existing practices, and I am looking to the.future. We have proved-that a nation can bo brought to .unity by a living' education/ Hitler has said. That is true. - I am. speaking of, .tliat educo.tlpTi.-V- .. , . w
^.'.'Germany haB known a lot .of disunity?
 Centuries' of it. Two' hundred years ago we had 300 indepen&eht principalities. After the Congress, of Vionna we still had forty and no single' central Government. Even Bismarck's powerful central Government, his super-State; did not represent an organic Germany.' It - was a' political, not a spiritual, structure. Spiritually ;the Germans remained torii apart. ' National Socialism has.' welded them into nationhood.
Do young Germans feel.'their , personal, liberty lias been taken'away'from them by Hit*
dlvidualtty, the most precious of all earthly things. I think I have Indicated how we cherish  national individuality; Well, national Individuality is'only. th'e personal individualities of the natioh in sum.
Do you believe In' national self-sufficiency? 
No. There can be lio such thing in the
so-called, than with Imperialism. We have use for th Idea of. the . cessation of world trade.-  That-points t lowp living standards, it points to universal {|lGtr.ess^ However, tai> Iffs and -the -rest, together with monetary fluctuations and competitive devices,, force Germany to- reckoit with the possibility of a permanent jam In its exports. Consequently the encouragmnt of German agriculture' is In
No.- Expropriation .of- property by- the States Is merely a form of Marxism, shifting capital from private to public ownership. We regard private .ownership of property as neceethat which is gained by work. Moreover, it must be used by its owner as beAts oue who rules over it in trust for tlie nation. Propertyisin. We fully realize the aTduousness of the work ahead of us, lls call'for all the spiritual vigor, all the- ijfealiani, olwhich: Cue Geicapable. .The fight Is a bitter-end fight
or wotigi the nation.
Is U&re ;anythihg in your' highly-developed} sense of national and personal individuality which-will make; difficult yoiir'joining in a
dl tenet lnd(vldualltlesr inefficiency and futility of ththat of those who know neither themselves
''Should- you: welcome a movement .to bring.erstandlng' and
. Most heartily. In i nothing r else Is- there real.interDatlonal promise. -PreJudlce l* a terop4nthelrtharytelha^1ty,1and;thelrmlndf
Writers Row
APPLES AND DATES
caus he didnt have a Sunday evening
English boys were singing that night and... he forgot his loneliness" listening to their childish voices. But coming home, in the - slush be watched the couples going past
talked In the hed have to be getting along since the boys were having a little poker gan
American Novel. Well, hed show him.
a brilliant Batire against womenhed be hed ask d writer robbers^When Freddie got in tlie house he. turned the lights on .quickly and turned the radio on full blast. Then lie oifened the drafts and added some coal to the lire. This accomplished, he set about attiring himself for the g'- 
dark study. Freddie had no purple dressing gown nnd didn't even smoke cigarettes so he compromised with sheep-skin slippers, a pair of old slacks, and two rosy apples for inspiration.
i the clean pad before him. , > ...He knew wliat> Hed write a story about a follow disappointed.in love! Maybe hed have him jump oli. a bridge, and
Such a plan called for & little meditafood for thought! Food for thoughtgee,
When the apple was finished and the
tures oii, the lately immaculate sheet and: crumpled.it wltli buslness-ilte satisfaction. Sherlock Holmes was on the radio just- then, so' Freddie tUnied it up; - After all,' even th best' authors needed atmosphere, and besides, Couan Doyle wasnt so bad. himself as a writerWhen:Holmes and; his faithful IWatson'. had trapped- two-score . of -Englands best crooks;Fi*ddie again turned.to the serious bnlnss' of story writing. - In .th -.mean-, ..tim'-a''liKlmcir' atmosphre carp"ovr the radio in the form' of True Ghost Stories."An hor later Freddie had five crumpled sheets.to his credit, four apple'stems, and. a waning interest in writing- the great short story. Besides, the house was getting cold! The sleet outside kept . consistent .'patter on the windows and the.doors all
One evening Freddie had visited a friend of his at work. That in itself would not have been extraordinary, but his friend worked at the morgue. A morgue in Itself is ghastly enough in daylight but at night a visit behind scenes
embryos and he ahv
ite, anyway. The only
paper , and drink beer and'slouch-around corners with a notebook. A
radio up and descended to the black of the cellar, ihie cellar had never seemed so cold ' an^ dark, before but Freddie.
hands tremble. on the draft chain. Then he went dead! The radio upstairs abruptly ceased its doud clamor! Freddie, tense and white, waited. Maybe it was. just a change of program! .The seconds seemed endless and somehow Freddie knew It had been shut off. rriien he heard the footsteps. - Low, even, bumps that seemed an echo of liis poundSome lie had clubbed from behind; others he had tackled; two of the biggest he had captured by jumping feet first, from the
.- Freddie had. read of cold , sweats..he was experiencing, one now. His feet were-,. ! tied. He wanted to shout, Whos there? .but he feared the imagined rush-ohd'shot that 'would follow his-outcry. , 1 .' The footsteps-grew heavier.,.'They came rout, Jntol the kitchen.. Tlien .thex turned to the- pantry. Freddie -was .doomedbe - waitetl the clump of heavy boots on the -.Cellar stairs. ; He^thought of- the .headlines. they would carry. .in . the local-"paper: ."Local Youtli Murdered-in Cellar. The'
Freddie, are. you. dowa-there?"Freddie never again in-his life;was more glad to hear the-familiar bass of his dad. The folks had come .home early! ..
Freddie, weren t you awfullv lonelv  when he wer^ gone?." '. .:.x- , Between, dunks of Ice-box cookies in nlng .cocoa. Freddie taenfully -replied:-
On Other 
Campuses
APRIL POOL!
University of Maryland <MCEA) 
April Fool Day, or All Fools 
Day,' of all days.in the' year, enjoys 
grader peculiarly its-owe, insbla'r as it, and'ft alone,'Is conse
crated to practical joking. On'this 
doy it is an almost universal cusD throughout the world to play 
ilabty asinine tricks upon ones 
neighbor.  ' '
The nearest and inOst startling 
analogy'as to the /origin of this 
holiday, is found in the Feast of 
Huli in Hindustan. The last day 
of this ieasCfalls on March 31, when 
tbe chief diversion is to-send peoerrands ana expeditions that 
end in disappointment for tbe sendee and merriment for the
Even today, the story is told in France, how' the uke of Lorraine, Francis,, and. his wlf caplivlty in Nantes April* 1.-  Disguised the Duke with a hod on his back, and bis wife, carrying a pack of ubblsh, Blarted nut bol the sentries. A women bystander, recognizing the real identity of
ly and shouted back,, derisively, Polsson dAvril. The eDtire tioop of guards picked up the cry to a man. thus enabling the pretended peasants to make their getcording to an investigation recently conducted by Dr. Raymond F. Piper, head of the philosophy de
ft rouses, the least Interest.
STUDENTS FAVOR DATE 
BUREAU
Syracuse University (MCEA) The popularity of the suggested
student desiring a date' will' register with the bureau end will state his or her interests and preferences at the time of registration.The-'final -.step in, the arrangements will; be the pairing of the individuals - both. of whom must first consent to the mstch. The atm I/of the':.bure&u; i3 'to "bring aboul l-^cqrta3htnc6';^b't>7n;'rQtuant9 having;, similar tasitee anil interests;*-. -
Antl-Anythlng Club
New York University (MCEA) "Have you any Inhibitions? Have you.ever frothed at the mout , creliy and silently, at the thought of anything at all? And havi liad.no oppvtunUy to conie on denounce your pet hatrd' cburse you havent had a chance tb. vent, your spleen?
Thia vwas tlie lead in a feature story run last week by the Bulletin. Feeling the need for an outlet for pent-up. feelings, Walter N< man, a sophomore, nnd a group seniors, have decided to organize an. Anti Club. Anti what? . Anti anything.
Students joining the club are qulred to list at least one of thelf pet Antis. Wheh- the clubs _ gram actually gets under way, tbe 'members pet Antis will h discu^ ed in an opn forum and constructive measures will be taken. M Newman promised .every member shoulderto cry on?
Th-more visionary members! of | fh -founders group, which made..lip of six upperclassmen In addition to Mr. Newman, ventured to predict; Well make monkeys iit--.eC every - organization, every dean,' ihd' ev'ey aerlous ihing'inliis.'University, well turn It up^j
.(luexmui Constitution  utlly -ratified by the' Deans'Coni- hrittee on Student Affairs two days after ,:the plans were made public. A^'little lobbying was necessary several members f th committee ofi- Student- AiTalrs (undergraduat< faculty governing body) , wer< promised membership'In the club others wer promised that they would receive iio more tlias tlire? blackballs when their' appUcatlonf
I act-1
...... willhave its treasury and wili ask for n6 subsidies.
; -Some' of the Antis received were: i "Anti girls whp have to know you
il AICRABD fBYRNE.*.
tbilshmntarlanlsm.
THJE
SK1BO HOBO
... by ... 
ADDISON GILMORE
1 People You Ought 
To Know ; . . " I
the .air acting dramas
the/1944-Thlstle was the first book to make 'monev-and pav the salaries of th,e staff. Regis..has a bn?.-. iness .head^ He believes^ that an aotpr^with.;no nose for business.- is merely -*.-puppet, in tbe -handt of the;pto.dncers. joyce-iB gettlng alltto^exfrerl^nce: he . can ^ ......racqfljthe-'itage moguls. 
vv^Soei^eyents hold little interest :f6r-ihlm1vS6me poople/eay Reg igi-concelted. - He-admits *T may !
MUCH TO THE SURPRISE of his mother and fraternity broth
ers, Add. Gilmore was announced as the Skib' Hobo at the Tartan'Banquet . . . For a whlle this column was hanglng hands 
faster than a fiot penny ; . . Al Fenderabn?-who wrote the first 
couple issues and then left'town,. was followed by Julian Munster 
. , . After a couple months the mighty pen was taken ver-.byJack Speed Provost, who.was persuaded by the administration' 
that It would be to bis advantage to pursue education rather 
'than life . . . and at mid-year Gilmore devoted 'liiiiislf lo the . 
cause . . . Some of his best quips were censored for the benefit ' , 
of the student body in general and the Deane Jn particular ...
; a lot of the material .came through n undercover scout, system. \
THE TARTAN BANQUET went over In its usual grand style; 
and a6 announced, no outside speakers . . . apparently tbe Car
negie sheet has the largest staff of any college newspaper . . . 
ninety-six students signed up for the free meal, and even Will 
Lnndsburg cant figure out where the other seventy came from!
HIGH SPOT of Exhibition Night was theNreally classical demon
stration of medieval printing put on by Paul Moore and Guy Halferly ... if you didnt see the boys In those wigs and the rest 
of-that get-up, just imagine old P. J. with blond hair, blushing 
violently, and laughing to himself all evening ... the expected 
number of visitors inquired as to the whereabouts of the life . 
drawing classes . . . and someone told us that the outstanding 
feature of the model concrete home was tbe Inspiring photograph 
of Carole Lombard In the bedroom!
THE WEEK-END w^s favored with several initiations by the va
rious clubs on the campus . . . following formal ceremonies Sat
urday, a large part of the Beta clan settled down for. a quiet' even
ing at one of the towns more popular literary societies .... 
pretty cute, heh Keith? . .... Bettle Initiation took place Satur' day night and th next morning . . . and the Beta Pis climaxed 
theirs with a tea daiice at the Pittsburgh Country Club . . . Bad 
weather and doubt as to dress probably accounted fr ihe 'email 
. crowd at the Spring Formal . . . very nice, though, nnd plenty ' 
of room to dance ... as expected, the .boys wore every thing 
' from tuxedos to linen suits.
MISUNDERSTOOD were Senior M&ggie Murphs Watters, Haddock and Barr last Friday-while attempting to appear sweet and 
innocent before the'visiting high school girls . . . very naively 
they stopped Hal - Baer in front ' of Sklbo and falgettoed, 
\Vhere's-Margaret Morrisoh?.wv. . whereupon two passing 
high school lasses took them,at:appatent value, and graciously 
pointed out the building.' *  . - . ,
A -NEW MEANS of distinguishing college students ought to be 
devised since the passing,of the faccoon coat and hlp.flask . . . 
quite noticeable and. amusing were th'  Techites attempts to, 
appear collltch11 before Exhibition visitors . . . although classes , 
were dismissed for the afternoon, everyone hung around to 
give the school atmosphre and at the.same time review, the 
possibilities presented by, the-high school graduating classes 
. . . biggest shine of the day were the-Tau. Delta Phis-who hod 
the radio blaring while they 8at':conspIcuously on their porch 
-'-with.'gurls! 
IS HIS FACE. RED! . . . After talking for over twenty minutes 
about.the merits of a particular machine'during the Exhibition., 
Norm. Caplan, ex-law student and erstwhile, printer, found that 
each one in his group of supposed listeners-was deafstudents of' 
a deaf and dumb school here In town.
On Second 
Ttougkt
By Emily Kramer
Americas demagogues  are for 
ing ahead; Two figures are becoQ. 
irig - increMingiy -BDibre prominent 
in 'the :neffB.-. That', they iigure 
proininenUy ^is-' Hot-'nearly so 
porlaot as the fact that they t 
being considered seriously, -with less of the ridicule and amuse, ment which they have' heretofore occasioned. People are beginning to realize that Huey Long, and Father Coughlin are powers to be reckoned with,-not merely a clows id an ora.tor., ' '
While people do realize that they represent power* that-power is dll- Icult to classify and define. we leard last week" of Huey Long's rltupejative..harangue In the Senamusement on the part oi the public. People would have found him amusing.or foolhardy. .-At. present, althpugh>newspnpers -greeted ' * outburst with oAe ridicule ; caricaturo,. they- reflected on whole a more serious attitude ward thls'xuon of tbe South.
The fact that Longs speech came during the scime wfeek ther Coughlins official entrance into politics is significant. Some have tried to find evidence of an alliance between the two. Whelh< or not there 16 anything definite s. an alliance ttetweeh them, the fact remains that they are much alike in essential-purpose-and prinicple. The sixteen points of Coughlin', program resemble strongly the promises made by Long, which in  turn resemble the platforms presented by all demagogues and would-be dictators, Hitler and Mussolini included.
Through these very promises these men have gained the power they-possess, the large following they maintain. People are so easily convinced by skillful oratory that they seldom stop, to consider the significance of the words, which are uttered. One cannot .really accuse either Long or Coughlin ot insincerity. Ohey are sincere in .their-own desiresthose of attaining power. The promises which they make to gain, followers ore simply promises. Someone 'has said - that promises are made to be broken, and tbe epigram is quite applicable in the case .of promises
thn what seems to solve his particular grievance.
Only by seeking to comprehend
Sldered rationally.,^-Unless- peo/te learn to deal rationally with A problems preserited by men such as these, tliey -wlll forge.ahead to positions of unbelievable power. Then it will be too late for intelligence.
The proEessors at the University of Michigan, got busy and formulated 15 -plans to keep the- students awake.The Junlatian.
Stan Kostka of the University of Minnesota was a candidate for mayor of bis home town until hs
Gloomed by a fgltiiiiiiiy?
Vhen Sammy Sniveller glome a gale evening by 
weepjng\in rhia^pretzels,-Sadie Sunshine simply lighls a 
mellow, smooth Old Cold ... Then presto, chango! The 
lower Sammy sinks, tbe higher Sadie soars. For OlHGolu 
has a magic way of-pullmg silver linings out of clouds.
AT TRYING TIMES____TRY A Snvooth OLD GOLD

---------------------------------------------------

* -
THE CARNEGIE TXRTN. TPESnW. XPMt, 30. 1935
THE
TUESDAY
SK1BOHB.1by
BY JERRY HANSON
Track, Field 
Wins to Tech
Plaid Defeats Reserve 
On Sprint Ability
GIOLMA AGAIN TOP
Skibos Nab Many Firsts 
In Close Tourney
JCAHNEGTE- IS OPENING ITS SPRING SPORTS In very promising I 
Over the week-end victories were tallied in track, tennis and' 
3,11 Grove City took.lt oja the chin In the .two minor. sports with-de-l 
Ijjslve defeats, and Western Reserve succumbed to the Tartan trackers 
1 i meet which, was contested closely enough to make it interesting I 
all concerned.: The Tartans had tbe upper-hand In the sprintB, jand l 
judged to. take a lot of firsts, which gave them the required lead. " 1
Lr SEEMED LIKE THE GR1DDERS were playing In the heat of the 
Lmmer during Saturday mornings scrimmage. The second team 
Loked better than the first at times, and managed to make-'6trong of* 
tensive drives against the first string lads, T.he latter were playifcg 
mueh of the habitual defense tactics to look impressive. But Improved 
-was- apparent.  There, was. some: classy.;fleld \ running 
s of Sputzle Terebus of the Number Ones'and'Harpy'Fryer of the
the advantage.-in the-sprints. ' Captain Frank Glolma, Carnegie's Iron -finished first -in' both tbe 220 and the 440-to make himself.-high
jput on 2
BhN; NATIONAL Y SWIM was settled in favor of the Westerners froffl 
very start. Their te; -man team was thoroughly accomplished, 
boasted Jack England, an individual star who has shattered 
Weismullers records. Ralph Gilman broke the national, 440-yard 
lreeslj'te, 4:32.S.A fencing exhibit ran the swim some competition the night of the 
finals. The most Interesting bout was between Carnegie's fencing in:iruclor, Mr. Postgate, and an old chum, of Iiis, demonstrating - the 
old-fashioned saber, lasting until the weapons were broken/ fcatcbelor 
Derdyne made., the outstanding match. The -students also 
interesting single stick duel, during which, tliey' beat 
icii other with abandon.
1HE BETAS WILL BE HF.ARD ASKING for an-extenslon or change In 
psillon of the exchange, lines on the sweepstakes course. Chali 
Hi Lewis seems to be supporting the opposition. Last year the Betas
around the curve at the base of Industrie that their.man could not 
the exchange.. .An-extenslon of the exchange area could not pos. 
penalize other entrante. -. The Beta's only alternative solution Is 
of brakes.
FLASHDEMON CHARLES WILL BE YOUR FAVORITE TARTAN 
(scribe beginning after, the nest .issue,; In >yhlch I will sing my swan 
Jim Hughes, runner-up and spur to Scotty,, will continue wilting' 
special feature scribe.
Womens Athletics
by Margie Green
in the first and a second place in jump. Camblor, Connor, and ,Periim fought: it out-for places In the hundred, since no. Western Re* runoerseemed-to. have the desire-to! contest- the race. 
Burke won1' the'880 with a very decent run, and Beall, who is racing his first year bn the varsity, * lished third.The Plaid showed up well in the field events by .winning four firsts;
Mushball Activities Shoiv 
Early, Favorites in Leagues
Thta Xis and Pi K. A.'s 
Showing Class and 
Determination
; Mushbdll cume'into the picture 
this past week in-a .bln. Pt: glory 
with the favorites coming through 
in great "form and hiany new 
potential stars appearing on the 
horizon. :TheUk Xt;16<jks particular
ly good and seemB. to.be the. likely 
winner if a.prediction is lnorder at tbis early date. Pi Kappa Alpha; one oi last years "league' champs looks very .capable and very
other team which seems to. have talent than the.average is Atpha Slgnia Phi. .
In last .weeks games Theta XI 
defeated. Si^ma, PiKappa^Al.pfca defeated.' Phi' Kappa; Beta Theta Pi deljated McOlliHaU; Phi^ Kappa beat Kipjpa Sigma;; AlpftS Sigma l*hi. defeated Alpha Tan Omega; Alpha- Tau Omega' beat
teams in action April-29: D. T. D.S. N.; K. .S'., vs.. S. P. E.; D. U. vs. B. S. R.; McGill vs. A. . . , P. D,; April 30: P. S. K. vs. K. D.set on copplnpthe crown- which I YSF Scobell vs. Jr. Arch.; ,B. ,T. P.t. X; P. K. A. vs. T. D. P.; May 1: A. S.. P. vs. Boss; S. N.;that Interiratrnity Counoil- wlll'| have to donate a- .new.trophy this year due. to the fact, that the old one .disappeared from tlie S.' . E. man* tie*with the'departure of th'ttar| second baseman last summer. AbT. D.; S. P.K.
Netmen Open Up, 
With. Victories
D,. S. R. vs. Jr. Arch.; McGill i: T. X.
These' games will all be played . 5:30 ou tlie days scheduled. In addition to the games mentioned above: there will also.be played off those' games that were postponed
Munhall Boys 
Top Shooters
Worley Awarded Medal 
For Highest Score
*One of the features of the Car* 
hegie Exhibition' Day was the scho
lastic'rifl>tiohtest which was held on' the Tartan ; rifle range. The tournament, was-the- first of 4ts kind in the Pittsburgh district, and
at the scholastic shoot, lts> Number One aud Number T.wo teams placing first 'and second respectively with tlie scores oE975.nnd 974. Per- 17 High todk thlrd with 937.
Individual .medals were, awarded the memtjers of the winning team,1 along, with the championship ploqne,- which will remain in the possession of Munhall for a year. N. Worley, of Munhall. won individual high score honors with the ceilent core of.198 out of 200, for which he received au. indivldunl medal.
Other team standings were: South Fayette, 920; Dormont, 894; Perry Girls. 77$; Brentwood, 72CK
Scrimmage Shows 
Balanced Teams
-After five weeks of spring practice. the Curnegle' tootbAll team Is concentrating on straight scrim* mage work. All last week this was stressed in line . scriuitnago - and other contact, practice in preparegame-rather slow and desiiljry .to the on-Iookers, but the fracas was indicative of one Important thing neat year the Skibos should' have two full teams, of nearly,. eQual strength.
Saturdays scrimmage was won*1 by the first toam when . Sputile Terbus broke loose'lor a score. The midget halfback -played .-well all morning and looked ..like a .big threat, for the Plaid opponents . Jn the coming season. The plebee on the ' team ; are working well and look like they are going to^play a big parti the Buccess of the f
of the players is better and-the future prospects brlghtor than thi have been In some time. The line play has been changed slightly in stylo and It Beems to exhibit ieffective blocking.
Golfers Also 
Beat Grovers
Plaid Takes Four Wins; 
Ties, Drops, One Eacli
Starting oft'a day. that proved to 
be successful to the-Tartan tennis 
land track snuadsafl'weU, Coxaegles Varadty -. golf-team defeated 
Grove CltyV:i3*G. til the season 
;flret match.
.: Showing mid-season form - the - 
Plaid .squad, were victorious In 
oveiy individual matoh except two, of whlth; one' of theB.e. two ' '
CaptQlu Kay of Tech-turned In ,tbo first victory when he beat Hender- ............ Grove City 2to 1. The match was played.uuer the Nassau scoring .system. .
.The summary:Kay (T> 2. Henderson (G. C.) lj . Stewart (T) 1, Marshall. (G. C.), 2; Spyer (T> S.- Henderson <G. C.) 0: Pallev (T) 3. OBorke (G. C.) 0;.. McKenzie (T) 1%, Mooro (G. C.) .*%! Herron (T) 2%. Cross (G. C.):
placed first in the was first, in the Green, also of the Sklbo team, second. FitzWilson, hurling the javelin' for Carnegie, let'it fiy for 166 feet for the-first place.
The freshman team scored a close In over the Schenley high track* ters, 44-42. 
Golden Gate Lads 
Clinch Y Swim
Tne International Y. M. swimming championships, held in the Carnegie pool on< Friday and laturday-of last ' jy.. the San.Fraui i- total of 41 points. The Westerners were favored iron? the first dhd ven in the preliminaries appeared :o be sure victors. The team We firsts and two seconds,, domonr strating exceptional free. \* strength with balatice throughout. The > California stars, Gilman^ and Freeland, did most of the heavy scoring for the -Frisco lads. Ralph
Lcsl you misinterpret the W. A. 
class numerals worn on Campus, 
all this week as convict ^jii^ers.. 
[o,- an initiation stunt,- yo^Bhoiyil'd 
well intormed as- to 'ttieirVfli1) 
liflcance. and.dignity.^'F0?L few years the athletlc^hQard- l>een sponBorlng ' ^nlariTiual.; Atvnrds Week to provide' an .oppor- nily for all thoaQ. ; Wh(>,,laye rued Tarlan letterajvplns, orfclass memls to display ;4hem: without' iiing like sissies.Ttfpseywho al- idy have them- .will .resurrect era from old.trunks,/acrti bookSi and wear theraj.the .^entire >ek; whereas otbere Sj^n.l. liave to- lit imlll after the'Awarda.;Party. noiTow. ; By the way; dont forschools, both city and -sub- urban^ -havft*:b'e^n invited. Mary I iiaatfttilte ah'entertaining program | i .jiapdr-gamea,- stunts, and swli
fro:clock in tlie Wo
Venlent. v Just1 remember, tjat-two. ;oncrh0ur .- practices - - (meaning 60 'minutes. not- 30!)':every week-are reauired ' for Vth'e . 50-poirit,  awanl; The Hen ' highest'scorers will . each- re<;eiya.75 point's, and. will compete, with each, other- in a;', tournament shortly before ilnal' exams. Sign ip for each practlce 'on .the bulle^ In board in the locker-rooms, Nothing new. in volleyball^ other I than, the very unusual' lack of th. 800-1.thusiasm. Whats the troybli
The Annual High School . Play, scheduled for'next Saturday, :00 a. m. til 2:00 p;'m.. Mary Wetiach. newly elected, president ..-.i,. -.r ^ GSn is chairman of the 
'iLh the assistance of' the ?n(ire boaid. Four-girls and ait  each 'of twenty
!Rules Released 
For Sweepstakesl
men who haVe letters^ia ncl in cross  country^/;atid io at the present:time hare towards letters oi.m^nerals r lhe current aeason wilt"be Jfi- gble. This does not pply^-topternity for which they -are..-cbm-}
Tlie pushmobile must ^ least 60 pounds.* Preliminaries are tobe .....three beats. Position to. be for immediately before the pee. Preliminary-winners,vtliat'is, rt ana second pince of each heat r" he eligible for the. finals.. The pushnioliilos that go to'the'left of 'Mnmmtea at the top of the gym- 5aS|*>m hill will be given, a three fu handicap.,5- Tho neutral zones will be ten urds "ide between the lines: All friges in 1>usiiers mU3t'take place 
ffween these lines in th neutral' ^ A nusher must-have the pushmobile a es except when it Is in a neutral
 All pushmobiles must remain- their respective'lanes until they s the second dummy nt- the top symnasutm hill.
: Each fraternity must aub lst of its team including dri
STUDENTS 
 WANTEDiMF,ve hundred Typawrlttrv, makes, . Portables : and ndards, eld, rented, re5300 one month, . " month..American Wnting Machine CompanyCor nati,Bl Opes1e 5aBBhtA,um g, ATIantle 5488our School representative DIO? BiMUAUn
'much heart and soul IttePest in the exhibition? Personally, I cant, think " a- better excuse,, but-since it is ) longer' valid, there no. doubt ill be a -revival of the- tild-tlme spirit-, beginning :thia weekr. Let5
and also a list, of two alternates. This list must be In the hands of the committee,not: later than Tues: day, May 7. 1935, .at 5:30 oclock.
S. - Pushmobiles *6 enter design, omuetitibn un in the race 9: > No 'pushmob!le: may . be ,, tertd- ih the competition .which; has.- l&s^^anthr.eer-or'more:.than,-.five, 
\vh,eeIa,. suppoi^nig^ihe:.'^ght ot
the pushmobile..........................l0:>-RuleB' f6r the. eligiyiltyloi phdlife^'-etaUibei^o.venied - by.lthe 
intramural;.' ;hoard<r/ .-Thej must have^a factor oM:-25 and be m.-good sChQlasUfe^standing; -iV-v-ICi'the'-weather conditions i sufeh-that the------.?

---------------------------------------------------

B,TAlC TOESm, APRIL 30. Q3S
THE
CARNEGIE
PLAID
FtCT'edlted Night Seiool atodente of 
i'Se edlto- lj udoned Dar School
Tlawa or opinion* uyiop 
ky.tiv EdltorU)'Bowd;,oj
Historical Highlights 
Night Student Council
E. F. WHITE WILLIAM E. HSB  GENEVIEVE SCHOLTZ PA VID O. DAVja
.. Ccrttdbnttm ..............anMred,Grton E, E.McDonBldBelULahT' ' A. J.LclB
Exhibition -
Th demonstrations presented by thstudntg last-'Friday night were 
well worth- the time spent on the campus. Th'e thousands of visitors who attended were given-the tip- . portu'nlty Co view the wordings of a great' system of education which ,has had so much to do with the  of .nation we have become.
r Carnegie Tech-  has  much of which.to beproud.'but as we read 'of unique methods- and bizarre courses designed for the sugar* . coating of-the pill'of knowledge: .we feel that the-schools proudest achievement has been in sticking to Its purpose and to itB .high stand* 
.aid.'-
' As we look upon the list of grad* ; ales-who have made their .places Sn the world we find many nation- aUy known figures. This in itself is an .indication ' of tho school's standard of scholarship.
- ' .Although'tho night students may Hot play a large part In this annual exhibition, the fact remains that they, have been a large' factor in the development of on. educational curricula which is equal to that ; .presented by any college in. th 
/country. .
of the night school there can be no , reason, why the night students .--should not present such a demon* Btr-atlonthemeelves,
Campus Croups Form 
Activity -Chain Links
Other groups assisting- from ill 
i time In keeping kindled the 
terst in activities on/the-part of 
th night student* were the C I T 
Generators, - Graphicae, Sketch 
Club, Electricals, Sheet .Metals, 
Carpenters, Masonry men, ; Indus
trial Acts as jwell as those .talcing 
courses in music and drama--,
As the names would imply, the 
.'ajarity of these group were de* 
partmental .ones. and were inter
ested-. primariry -in-tneir respective department, although in most cases general invitation was extended > all the students of the campus. 
While each of these groups held t least one Informal function dur- ig the school year, some of them held several-meetings. In the case of the- Sketch Club, thelv -objective was to carry on between the tonnai closing ' of the night school -year until the reopening in the fall.
Perhaps the most successful one of the departmental groups, that is, Svhich seemed to carry.on the longest and created the most interest,-was the Electricals, This holds the record for a long period and it is only within the last years .that the function has been omitted. This smoker wris al- /ell supported in- the early years of night school and was looked.forward to with consideiable In* terest by the night electrical students. ( >
As .may be; surmised it was exceedingly difficult to keep the spirit alive because of,student turnover from year to year and one by one these departmental eoclalfunctiona dropped out of what .wan-then the social .calendar of th night school year'. They ;are*now only memories
GRAD NEWS
 The' following article was written t>y. W. X (Bill) McKee a night graduate .of Carnegie Tech, who has : - found the night coprseB of,immense beneflt ih his flght to th position  'of New; Yorfc -maiiager! of .the" Na- Uonal Tnbe Co..' /.Tothe;NIght Studats:; - 
' - This .lB Intended as a message of 
Aope and encouragement to the  night - student, who .is downhearted .and seemingly balked in his efforts to-keep up- uader the grind. . It ..gomes'from .one .who. in his years i in the-night-'Bchool, haeseen hnn- <jireds drop" out because they lacked Vthe;' fights to- continue - and others who went on In spite of what s :;Ho-, thni.'lmost Insurmountable '--.barriers .to.; finish .their chosei . courses and whose progress in their ...dally activities outside school has .'been' aided, by reason of their per*
" 'RlgIit.vthB very, . moment there /are many students: Who - are dbat ing itrJithr 'they;; ehould continu e.To ttose/.jjexspns : f-ay,-; stay on. ' AccompliflhiTient'.l8 not Id .fee' had on- flrst'vndavors alone and after  .all, few worthwhile things are ever {-"easily'- attained; '
 Too" often;.the night student develops a self-centered attitude and ' absolutely, refuses to .join with .other;students' in the activities of ;the inlght'schoolas a'result he . begins, to think .that, no on elee ;,.has. just th sam problem as he and ^oftentinis n attitude of self plty'is'deteibpedi,-1 
. Smokers/get-together class meet- ' ings, eto., .will ; bring ,yoii in  touch ; with. ; others,;, and  you will gain , i.ngyvslant: on things.; It\wlH bright* en your school llfeand above all r^il-show; 70'tFijt v others jitre: Sik: V'ing- th gratte whose'problems .are ; FaaDS less; srlpiis than yours.' / .
'v.:. Another' matter that frequently ^causea/hight.. students:.to drop;,out
von''because the. records of those : wha have gone before you show that, many'were not able to point to a ''single advantage gainea in- their field of work during, school years', but who subsequently have:;bech ahle .to improve, their position by reason of their studies.
Dven lf you are nqver able to advance your, position, the time spent i. fn night. school is not lost, for who : . can Veay. that time spent In study vis. not-more worthwhile than the usual means employed to occupy- our . leisure time.
It is certain that all of those who '.enter night school will not stay .finish their elected coursesoi ; will drop out for causs which s -'quite beyond their- control; blit i: many of you have it in your power.' to. finish if you si desire.!e? T me there -yes. I hope Is iti'iSi-bUt . . __ . ___ _ ____. that for you it will be the same. Remember it'can-be doneit has v-beeu <ioQe^-Eo why cot do le
NJGHT LIGHTS
Grimm s first job upon be* Jng reelected' president- was ta clean the  council room cupboard, worklng-'his way fr<
over.when'confroDted with ihe terrifying orderliness 6f the new regime:, . Wheh' Interviewed, , Mr. .Grimm stated; I. seen my dooty and l done it! . .
Phil Finale got a new car and rs not.evefi an officer .v . . The transmission class had lOft per cent attendance last weekall four.. <fr members showed up} .... . Joe Trachts strong-arm'friend, "IVluclc- a. job in the..............I. Pole Ice Co.,but it .doesn't affecthis warm leoTf.-'jr:;;::,: /
Our own grad news: F. A. Kol- in; former coiihcll member, is how reduccdfto-selllhg liquor in a down- store .. Ahha! What was Isabell Benshoff doing in ihe Wm, -?onn: ihoxei'-the Sunday morning after, the'-ehgineers' Ijaiifiuet? ; . . With. George Garhart, Russ jLahr .and Sam Nlkhazy all In the telephone check-up business, we ought to, make some' good connections. 
Frantic efforts to raise some hair tti .'Fuzzy* Noigot's chest by giv- ig him alcohol rub-downs are of no avail, i . , (i bet the same doss taken. internally.- would- do the trick!) . .' . ReitA Lahr got.a set pf. golf clubs for Easter, and all'Russ has to .do is borrow on his insurance to buy the ballsl . Many of ns envy the. aplomb and complacency-, of Peter piper'* in the Arts scliool, wfio"niaintains a poker face no matter ^hat devas- ?cks Ills private heckler,
University Conducts 
Educational Studies
. Th ; division of engineering at Brown'- university has been carrying on a series.-of unique -experiments. The purpose of these exper- imenta- is to determine- ae to whether or not the engineering-education cannot'be made a human as-well as a technical experlence. So far the results have been quite encouraging.
An .eiastic ..course plait adapted to the Individual abilities. and interests of the students Is being tried cut Assignment work is arranged In order of Importance. The most interested students do all of the assignments, others omit optional iroblems. The policy of permitting
Subjects Offered in 1935
Supplementary Session
May 6 to July 5, Inclusive,.unless otherwltfe indicated.
Any student who - wishes-, information or advice Concerning" his 
plans; for the supplementary term should call at' the Registrar's office. ,.v 
A. Subjects In Degree Courses and Six-Year Certificate'Courses 
Students .following a .degreeprogram should schedule- one. of the 
following subjects, In accordance.with, information on pages 29-62 of 
the 1934*35. Catalog of Night Courses; C-109. C-110, dsl, C-401. C-102, 
I, E-21, E-43, or Shops (Ir720, .1-740, 1-760, 1-780). E>21, B-43, and 
C-351 are offered only in alternate years;:' 1*720, 1-740, 1*760, and 1*780, 
oaly every third year. '
The . work of . the first.tern of C-109, C-110, C-351, C 01, C-402, 
E-20 and E-21 will be given irom May 6 to June. 5: that of the -second 
term/iroip.June 5 to. July .5..- The work of,the first.term otC-54, will 
extend;'frtim May/'6 to-June 19; that,.of the second-termi-from June 19 
io uguat 2. Th fees marieif>''incJude a ?5.0D laboratory 'deposit matrlB fee..  .'  ."I; First Year Subjects 
C-62 Trigonometry, M,W.F. 7:30-9:30, ,B. H. 2 ($12).E-176b Geh. Chemistry, reel, 2nd term, M.F. 7:30-9:45, E. H. 216 (S9) E-176b Gen. Chmistry, lab., 2nd term. W. 7:30-10130, E; H. 216, 214
(911)*II. 8eeond Year Subjects'
C*53b. An. Geom. & Calc. I, 2nd Term, M.W.F. 7;30-9:30, E..H. 205(?12)
C-401 Drwg. & Dssc. Ge'om. I,-both terms, M.W.F. 7:00-10-30, Ind. 345-(26)*III. Upper'Year SubjectsE-20 Mechanics I, both terms, M.W.F. .7:30-9:30, E.H. 70 ($12)E-21 Mechanics II, both terme, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E.H.- 71 ($12) :E-43 PhyslcB III, Rec. M.F.' 7:30-8:30, W. 7:30-10:30,. E.H. 209, 211 1 ($10). Lab. M.F. 8:30-10:30, E.H. 204, 102, 107, 300B.($B) Analytic Geom. & Calculi, both terms,-M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, May 6 to Aug- 3, E.H. 207 (U)d. 210 after July 5) ($1S)English I, both terms, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 127 C ($12) English I, both terms, same as C-109Economics I, both terms, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30. Ind. 255 A ($12) . Drwg. & Desc. Geom. II, both terms, M.W.F. 7:00-10:30, Ind. 345 ($26)*Blue Print Reading, both terms, M.F. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 345 ($17)*
1-740 Forge, Wed. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 7 ($6)1-760 Foundry,.Fri. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 123,* 117 ($6)1*780 Pattern Mon. 7:30-10:30, ind. 231, 232 ($6)
IV. Special Subject 'E-574 1 Fuels, Combustion and Domestic Stokers, M.W. 7:30-9:30, May 6 to June 5, inl., M.H. 103 ($8)
B. Subjects In Vocational Courses ,For students who are planning to complete one or the fur-yar courses leading to a certificate, the followlug subjects in mathematics, phyaiCB, and mechanical drawing are offered. In each subject- th work of.the first term will be,given from May 6 to june S; the. work f the second term, .from June; 5 to July 5.' Students may register for the work of. either term or for. the work of both ternis. Th; tditlo-ffe jubject is $12; for t' *, . ______ -irwise indicated; isday, Wednesday,'Friday,- 7;3f-9:30, .- Cn-21 Vocational Mathematics (E.H. 69)Cn-23 Elementary Algebra (E.H. 55)Cn-2B Elementary Trigonometry (E.H.. 215) 'Cn-26 Plane Geometry A (Ind. 251) - VI>99 Vocational Physics (E.H. ill)In-301 Mechanical Drawing A (ind. 319)In-102 Mehanlcal Drawing 6 (Ind. 319). In-103: Mehanlcal Drawing C{ (Ind. 319) i -C-423 "" Blue Pirit Reading \ se othr,sh$et0426 Sllde Rule PrcLlc'y C. Subjects - In thV General1 Courses For each of the following subjects, except Cn-28, the calendar dtesrschdul hours, and tuition -fees are :the same -s those of the subjects,,listed above. Cn-28 will-continue^for a period of thlrten 'sets, May 6 to. August 2;,..t}i.e..worb-of the first term. will.be given from May 6'to June 19; that of th'second termi, from; June 19 to August 2. The tuition- fee for .both. tendB of. Cn-28'is'$16';-'tor-lthrterm alono, $9., - ...v:-,; Cn-29 : Plane Geometry A, same as n'*26, listed bov Cn-127 Elementary English Literature (Ind. 127A). E:97 Elementary Physic's A (E.H. lll) .E-98 Elementary Physls B (E.H.100)E-97-98 Elementary Phylcs -B, lsl term, sam as E-97 'E-97-98 Elementary. Phyalcs A-B 2nd . term, same s E-98Cn-28 AlgebrV B. May .6 to-August. 2 (Ind. 209) . .Registration will) be held during the week of April 29. to May 3; between 7:00 and 9:00 and on Monday, May 6,'between 6:15J and 7:15; in . the Rg^atrars Office: In registering, students should preseiit their/ original reglstration -receipt card. Students, who withdraw- the first; week.'wil! receive'a'refund of tuition fee'less $2.00; no refunds'are made after the first week. Subjects with less than twelve registrants may be withdrawn.
ROSCOE M. IKRIG,Director of Night Courses.
Grad: Do you suppose there la 
any opening here for a college gradCouncil Requests 
Ticket Returns
Many"students have failed to make ticket returns for Night student council functions. In'justice to all stu- : Insignias will be
be held during the month of J.iine, it is eccssaj-y that all . returns be made promptly
Office Boy: Well, dere will be if 
de boss dont raise-m'e salary to 
tree dollars a week, by temorre^ 
night.
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pitsurgh, Pa.
-Telephone :: girls in Berlln. Ger,'many.mutfipeadasettimeevery :> dayt'^xerclslng their; vocal - cprds. .- -^University of: Washing toni -
Night Student Social 
Events Will End With
m,ance
Will Click^s Orchestra 
Furnishes Music For 
Council Affair
SOUVENIR PROGRAMS 
TO BE DISTRIBUTED
All Contest Poeter Entries 
Must B Entered Not 
Later Than May 1
All Is in readiness for the Inter* 
night dance which will be presented 
bv the Night Student coiincll on 
Saturday evening. May 4, in Thistle 
hall.
W4U Click and hlB orchestra of 
n pieces-will furnish .the music 
r the occasion. The orchestra 
is attained an enviable reputation 
for the smooth type of music which 
it renders-and is well known on the campus: ' The engagement of Mr. Click is in accord with tho wishes a majority of the students and ay be termed a request engage
antThe. social chairman and hie assistant have promised that nothing ill be neglected to make this affair exceed any event sponsored by Council this year. The decorations be carried out In bright colors keeping with the season of theyear. The arranged to representBright colored fit
setting will be
this affair must be in the Council office .-not later than May 1. The winners of this contest and the list of prizes, will be posted on the bulletin board Thursday evening.As. this event will bring to a lose 'the-' social activities of the Night school for the current school year, the students are urged to take advantage of the opportunity, to rewlth their fellow. students. The assessment is the usuai one doUar. per couple. i. -
Tis' Said
THAT one of th Night students. appeared on a local amateur program recently,... THAT-Art .Grimm hung his car eri a tree- Exhlbltlon night.THAT by the ,t]mfc;,you.. read  thle,-some'Of^s:wllUhav gone trtrbuflhthe'ordeaJ'ofexamlnaTHAT E. David Eddy Is not related to.the late Wesley Eddy or Nelson Eddy. .THAT the corridor of the Ad- ministration building has become quite popular as a meetingirrledouplei
THAT the to thank those who helped him and Uncle Sam.THAT Neil Bloehlnger is be* coming quite childish,, pinning signs on respectable Night students.. THAT two gals a. night Pear- certalnly slays the
English Department 
Offers Special Course
Students . having an entrance 
shortage In required units in Eng
lish may secure one unit of credit 
by taking course Cn 127 in the sup
plementary term in the Night 
School. - By special arrangement 
the same- course may be used to 
secure on additional unit of elec
tive entrance crdit. There are no 
prerequisites for the. course. .Stu
dents who are interested in further 
details should consult the English department. ,
Summer Course Offered 
In Heat, Combustion
. five.weeks* evening course is
day;. May, .7, and1,ending: Thursday, June 6, with4-'a' schedule of two evenings a-v week,'Tuesdays and Thursdays, -7:30-10:30. in Machin ery halv, Rdm: 2.Th 'cors';Tfill include flue gas analysis;- temperature measure- mentfl;; lighting>b6Lfriiacee, and re- circulation . of'SlItie* gases. Two unita^ *
Tlte course is^opn to those who have had General Chemistry (176) and College - Physics (E-41 and E-42); ?, 
Workers to Meet
Sptw Afternoon
All students who are inter. 
ested.;ifi earilJn^ : points to 
ward the Insignia award, are 
requested to meet in Thl6i)e 
hall on Saturday  afternoon 
at 1:30 oclock for the pUr1iMor e0T decorating the ban 
for the Inter-Night collet dance. All workers are ask ed to repcrt .promptly. A minimum number of polnu
Sport Suits are big fashion 
news this season  and Flntex 
is ready! Grand selections 
thoroughbred woolens  all ihe 
smart style trends  HERE! 
And the! price, $19.50, lets you 
pocket a handsome saving!
cM^aom
8,271 men and women 
past yean..
A. man who visited a Chesterfield
factory recently, said: "Now that I have 
seen Chesterfields made, I understand 
better than ever why people say Chester
fields are milder and have a better taste
If you too could visit our factories you could 
see the dean, airy surroundings; the employees 
in their spotless uniforms, and the modern ciga
rette making machinery.
You could notice how carefully each Chester
field cigarette is inspected and see. also how 
Chesterfields arc practically untouched by human 
hands.
Whenever you happen to be in Richmond.Va., 
Durham, N. C., or San Francisco, California, we 
invite you to stop at the Liggett & Myers plants 
and see how Chesterfields are made.
