VOL. 29, NO. 30CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Carnegie Man 
Tins Coveted 
Jrix de Rome
pH. B. Green, Class of 31 
I Awarded Fellowship 
I Valued at $4,000
Tartan Is Awarded 1 All-American Honor in National Contest
VOL.29,N239 0CARL 
EGISITUGFH YTHPOB
ren Roderick Jones Entered 
Architectural Division; 
 Exhibits "Work
Hoberl a Green, Carnegie gradu
ate, received the coveted Prir de 
Rome aword last week, for his su
perbly drawn painting the''Country 
Pair. This prize, valued at about 
four thousand dollars, entitles him
National Scholastic Press 
Association Gives 
Highest Rating
COMPETED AGAINST 
21.7 COLLEGE PAPERS
Bludy at tbe.Academy.Students all parts of the.Students from jarls of th. itry entered Ibe aDnual competitions for ibeBe Prix de Rome, which *89 judged at Ibe Grand Central Art Galleries by a Jury consisting o f prominent,psmfc
archil) landscape orcblnentlon In ar'cbltecture-for his entry in tbe contest. He is a graduate of Carnegie and Js now. employed as an Instructor In the Department ot Architects . . Mr. Green, who~hr-twenty years- ot.age, is a graduate of Perry High
Young Mr. Green graduated from the College of Pine Arts with free ot A. B. In. 1931. He has been attending the Fitfe Arts Department at Yale TJnleralty for the last three years where be won scholarships: He will . graduatenext-raenthWlth-adegree-oB*B\ la 1933 Mr. Green-won two. nationally contested Beaux Arts medals at New York, and in 1934 one of his paintings, Sun Worshippers" was hung In the Associated Artists show at Carnegie.
General Faculty 
Officers Chosen
Prof. L. L. Diues Elccted 
Chairman for 1934- 5
General faculty officers  for the 
year l93M936..were selected at tbe 
election held--r.ecently.- The.-.ballotins. conducted by mall, showed the 
following result CtTaTnfiah,, Prof! 
L. L. Dines, Department of Mathe
matics; vice chalrmah^Pro^ H. K. Kirkpatrick, Department" of English; secretary,;Mrs.' Margaret H. Ely, Department of.'..Secretarial Studies; treksurer iProf:. J. W. Howell, Departtu^nV.of ^Economics; and .athletl6'-cp'cit''rpresentatlve, Prof. John M. Danle, Department of Civil Engineering^ r;; ': Kew Executivecommittee are: Prof. G. R. Patterson. College ot Engineering; Prof. S. K Ashe, College of Fine Arts;
The new . Educational } senate, elected for a termCbf^wo. yeara, consists of Prof. CharlesR.. Fettke. College of .Engineering; 'Mr.- Robert Schniertz, College of -FliProf.Wright, Divlslon-ofGeneral Studies; Prof. W. J. Staley, Margaret Morrison; and' Prof. E. Nesbitt, Carnegie Library school.The General faculty, la an organization formed to provide a'-wswi?exijressing. through suitable legislative action, its desires and opinDept, of Music 
Presents Concert
[ Tne Department 01:- Music w-ill- present a concert next'Sunday eve- n,n6. by members of the graduating class and the Student Symphony Orchestra.^h^-'program will bee!va In the CarnegW -Music Hall and; will start/at 8:15 oclock, i  
,-.^e program is'-as follows:' ' ^iv.Snieiana ......................Ovejv
>'0;'.;vtuve.:to The Bartered Bride
2 M The OicBeetra.^* -Mozart .... . .-:^.7-. .'Aria, ,Non -v :.6o.r.piu"- (Lrt^Nozze, di Figaro). ; w vV'rgJhla.sCecil.>soprano .?I tt-mdel t
. _ Aria, Verar pratl (Alcina) V Verdi. wm.,Recitatlvo _edBriaiv-i, Ah!I.fo'rs^luV' (la: Travlata)' Marie Motter;. soprano .  : \
t INTERMISSION
 -"ozart..... ,.i :Concerto-in 'A. - minop for Piano and Orchestra R Alice Lobaugh.. piano 1 nsky-Korsakoff .".Caprioclo -Eapagnol. Op. 34 
The Orchestra 
^cketsmaybeprocnredWi s*  the OBelONa sday
Carnegie Weekly Earns 805 
Merit Award Points Out 
of Possible 1000
All-American Honor Rating has 
been given this years Tartan by 
the fifteenth annual Critical Serv
ice conducted by the National 
Scholastic Press Association.
competition with 217 college 
papers from all anrta of the coun
try the Tartan was given tbe high
est possible rating. The judges 
gave Carnegies weekly 805 points 
out of a possible 1,000. The scor
ing was based .upon the news value 
and -sources, news writing and editing; editorials, entertaining matter, headlines,, typography, and nake-up. The editorials, headlines, ihd make-up received special comment.
Each paper entered In the Critical Survey Is given one of five ratings  All-American, First Class, Second Class, Third Class, and Fourth Class, Papers receiving (be All-American rating are considered snperior; First Class papers are considered excellent; Second Class, good; Third Class, fair; find Fourth Cl.ass. below average. Only 33 out ot 217 college papers
tan has placed In this natloira1ct)Tn- petition. In 1933 under the editorship of John Ladd the paper, was titled All-American Pacemaker. Last year under the leadership of Edmund McCormick the paper
the Carnegie paper the e'dltorlal columns . and the editorial page features were outstanding; out of a_ possible.. 22Q-..polt^.;thls~BecJ.Ion, rated 190. inriewswriting and editing the score wsis 205 polrit^but of- 280, and on tho score- sheet for ifews values and sources. 185 points out of 250 were recorded.Highest scoresheet listing Itei In typography, make-ap, and headlines gave the Tartan 225 o 250 points.
Architects 
Reprimanded
Rudest, Crudest Group 
To Choose Monitors
As a result of persistent,.- misber, havtor while en cVarette in'-'*1 drafting rooms, atudentsin o Pepartment of Architecture w called in special assembly before Glendlnnlng Keeble> Dean ofe'the College of Fine Arts.In a previous meeting, a representative from theVDeans  office bad Warned the students'that tlifeir conduct \must be improved, and' that water bag bombardments from the drafting room must be stopped.However,' a SfcCohd 'asiiembly was necessitated as.a result of near riot which was,staged in the
In speaking to1 the'. , students/ Dean' Keeble berated them severer ly for their childishness and' stupidity," and called therii' "the. rudest, crudest,- Snd least present- ible group on the entire campus.He announced that serious meas: ures would be. taken to curb drafting room' privileges unless some system were . developed which would make for improvement in the* drafting room conduct, and a. geueral uplift in the department*: j-enuta-tlon. He suggested' afe i possible -scheme the aptJolntnniKl of monitors for each drafting room. The monitors would be chosen from men in the different classes, and working supposedly as controlling Influences, would serve as. supervisors of the drafting room conduct.
proved a failure, the only recourse
Campus Broadcast
Today over Station W-WSW Car/-1 riegie presents the Carnegie Mad-, rigal Cliolr under the direction ot Miss HUldah J. Kn\ey...:Th^. grout. Is to sing old English madrigals..The^.pYogram begins at .1:30. . .-Tiittsdav^Cavnegl^.preee^ts-^he; tL ' Cappella: "-.'choirs, of ,120 -.voices; ringing two composttlohsvpfvPalgs-, trina:'. The last ipa^t lot: the>.quar-, ter?houi* ls -to-be a .stirrlng.vjiegro, Iplrttual ' by Nathaniel: Dett, :called O-Holy Land. : :The Mteen minute program starts at-1.30. *..' The Carnegie. Tartan. Quarter Hour will be. on the air, Friday at 7; 16 to make its last broadcast of the' school - year. Tbe Scotch Lassies- Alice. Philpott and Betty
4*SCofVopttSrV5!9di.^^;Helenrayne will sing a Wt^tttne_of the
'Nice Person
Epsilon Pi Taw 
Installs Chapter
Carnegie chapter, XI, of th Industrial Engineering honorary fra-, ternity. Epsilon .Pi Tku, has . been established here. At the installation ceremonies. ..held . on. Saturday, May 18, at the University club, Dr. Williams E. Warner, of Ohio State university,, presided as the Installation officer. .Student officers of tbe new Xl chapter ar Joseph H. Brewer 35, president: John  F. Ramsey 35, vice president; -Donald Ei Grove '35, secr-, tary; and Thomas E. Hoskins 35, treasurei ' The o Tou are ship, and the development ot
.Charter members of the organization are Peter H. Dallemano '35, David Boyd 35, Joseph H. Brewer 35, Donuld E. Grove 36, ThomasE. Hoskins '36, Frank Sanford 36, John F. Ramsey 36, and RaymondO. .Robertson, all undergraduate students.
Sarabel Browarsk who played ie lead last night In the opening performance ofJ'NIce People."
Nice People 
Closes Drama 
Dept. Season
Younger Generation Is 
Theme of Comedy; 
Rudb Six Nights
tachel Crothers comedy, "N 3ple," the last play of tbe. e ; is being presented by the De- traent of Drama. Sta ht the play will have six . nights. There, will < matinee on Saturday
Nice People. a play - dealing with the. younger generation, rf a ,typtaL.play^ot\thfcsp^ioaj.ofiJ.921,. %nd deals with 'conditions- of that tfihe. *.The -author -wrote ..it .witlj. the Idea of contrasting the older and younger generations.
The plot deals with a group of young people, particularly theheroine, who iextravagantly,foolishly^ and even dangerously. They are carried through ber of experiences that awaken them to the fact that their values In life are useless for real living. Through these experiences they come.to. their senses, begin that liberty and freedom, as they have been won by the younger generation, must he used with di tion and good sense.
The alternating casts Include Jane....Francey, Mary Cheffey, Amalia., Roser. Marlon . Richards, Mary Louise Mehler,.  Sarabel J&owarsky, Elizabeth Levlnger, Mary- HubleyTMiffies McConnell,
Carl'Dozer,Ralph . Nason, .Milton
Scouts Will Visit 
Carnegie Campus
Day of Entertainment Set 
For 350 Boys Saturday
Three hundred : and' ' fffty ;Boy Scoiits' are coming to the -Carnegie campus'Saturday morning, ior k day of inspection . . and. entertainment. These boys, chosen from the. Eagle Scouts and . athr. high-ranking members,'will make a .tour, of the campus,- visiting.the various departments. They, will be shown the wind tunnel, the new amateur shor' wave broadcasting station, W8NKL the artificial lighting apparatus, tin
things. 'After lunch-at the Commons,-the Scouts will be entertained by the Drama department, which is giving the comedy, "Nice Peoreception committee composed of President Thomas S. Baker, Dr. Charles Watkins, Rollin V. Davis, Alan .Bright,-Dr.-'Welister N. Jones, Prof. Elmer Kenyon. Col; G. E. Pairlev. and I. D.Wolf. president of the executive-  board of the feheny County Oouncfi B. A. A., greet the scouts at 10:30. r The plan of; offering the. scouts a *hance to.'S6e. Carnegie from the Inside was instigated by-Col. Fait-: ley/1' -Superintendent-, of : Buildings
Mortar Board Elects 
Next Years Officers
actlves-and pledges on .-Wednesday ^3.2:30>IntheW6fafenVrclUti;room'. Emily Bumgarner was chosen president: Clara Hall, vice president; Betty- McGregor, secretary:: Evelyn Leighou. treasurer: and Rosemary Plei-ce. historian.  ^On the morning of Commencement,: the .-pledges will give a farewell' breakfast for the active niemand will later attend the graduation '' services In avbodv.
1935 Council 
Recommends 
12 Changes
Will Present Suggestions 
To Incoming Group 
This Evening
ing Council' in improving. the administration and setup of student activity during the coming school year. The list, which will be> pre-. sented to the new Council, recsom.-. mends for consideration the following Items: '. Social Committee -
1.* That the social committee', have tbe same members as during tbe-year 1934-1995; Social Chair-, man of Student Council, Executive- Secretary of Student Council, and Treasurer of Student Council. ' 2. That the Social Chairman contact all local hands directly, without going through; any .hoo.klng agent. :
through two agencies: The Univer- Ail. Feature . Attractions, Inc., of Cleveland, Olilo, ahd th MBlc Corporation of America, "New'York.4. That there be fyr social functions on the schedule, arid that som.e of the nuraeroua small  organization dances be eliminated.5. That tbe fact be stressed that all contracts with orchestras must be made through the Social Chair: man. This rule must be absolutely euforced for all major dances.
Intcrfraternlty Formal
the agreement passed by the 1934-1935 Council.2. That the Council take over tbe Interfraterolty Formal at the first breach of faith by the InterfraActlvlties Building project.2. That the new committee chairman confer.-with Mr. Lands- berg in - order to obtain all - the necessary, facts. . ....
Thistle Stf 
Appointments 
Made for 1936
Keith McCutcheon, .37, 
:v New Yearbook Head; 
Olhers Named
COUNCIL APPROVES 
AFTER DISCUSSION
Distribution of 1935 Thistle 
Will Be Accomplished 
Within Two Weeks
^Appointments for next years 
Thistle Staff' have been announced. 
.Keith McCutcheon ;37, Department 
of Commercial .- Engineering, has 
been appointed editor-in-chief of 
the 1936'Thlstle Staff.upon the
cedure' had not - .been mad J iknown to this., .year's editor. After a lenghty  discussion, th e -
 cepted by tuv '-dent Council. m 
. Other staff po- ^ sltlons Include Charles Ash- " (baugh 37, huslni
sales manager;  : Mavis' Brldge- jwater 37, art editor; Helen Campe )37; assistant are editor; Paul -Schwarts 38,; photo^tiphlc editor; porothy. Booth'37, associate editor;
-los- 38.'. publicity
i.LL1...u oi Journalistic Ashbaugh honoraj.y, Tblg
year he served on the Thistle, torlal staff, oh the Tartan business staff, and as a member of the Y"
Charles Ashbaugh, successor to Robert Croyle '36, business manager of the Thistle, Id a sophomoro in the Department of' Drama, and member of Alpha Tau Omega, a cial fraternity 1 He is now a pledge to Delta Skull, men's junior class
Miss Elva Hendel Is a aopho: in the Department of General Studies, and will act as featur
on the Thistle' editorial atft.
People You Ought to Know.
Miss Edith Winchester, Head of Depcrtment of 
Secretarial Studies .
Miss Edith 'Winchester, h6ad of the Department of Secretarial Studies, is one woman in the world who- does not entertain the fond wish that she were eighteen-years old again.* Whats move, she actually .likes the age she owns now better than'she did at eighteen.; Even better, she thinks she sees the humor in things now more than she did at eighteen. On the whole we can surmise Miss Wln< cliester would not care to he eighteen again.
. This discussion was impelled by the fact- that someone once. misiin- -her. MUs. W.|j)rJiP5)Ar. ioW
person once 
that she was the oldest woman n the faculty, meaning, of course, in point of
upon-this juicy
Mias Winchester; friend,. M,i s s : ... Wlia Chester. She; of course, denied* the-charge and' explained:how things Stood: but she still- insists -that, though -she isn't the oldest woman on the fac- she still would, raise merfr ned if she had-to be eighteen again.- It would-seem pointless to add that Miss Winchester is' gifted :.^Ithia.
moved so quickly to Massa- chusetts that It made no difference to her. She has her home in New. England. .In^^1919. after.graduating with: a B. S. degree from Slmnions;- she came to - Carnegie - In' the -.role teacher In the secretarial de^ partment. - In the summers, ot-the Intervenlncyears.shehasdonea
and attending Harvard for Ave mera.  In obtaued v spends the when not tr England.
Miss Winchesters dominant in- treat, aside from her wovlt at Carnegie, lies'' in the all-absovbing study of. medicine, . specifically mental hygiene. She has snent considerable time in hospitalsnot as a patient, however, and has received much education In that field. Sba oncft s-flousiy considered- medicine as her lifers work, but gave it up .In. favor ot secretarial studies. .On behalf of the department.- Misa Winchester woGld like .to liave
means injure .any domestic tendencies they may: have. In other..words she. has visited many of the hornos of .her^graduates.and never ha6 Te-' ceived any kind of meals but the good v old-fashioned square . ones.- Seriously.  Miss Winchester Is quite proud of the .work done by. Margaret- Morrison graduates. She tells us that it is difficult to keep; all positions , filled, so great are the demands for- competent girls.- They advance very rapidly into blg-pay- ing.'pbsUions^an'd tae 'wwk is althe department- and Is proud of her record.: incidentally, she has been the faculty sponsor of tbp Mortar Board ever e>nce It
Faulty Eme rgency 
Causes Bad Wrecki
Dr. Nees, research professor in 
chemistry, will be sure that his 
emergency brakes work the next 
time be parks on the brink of the 
hill at tbe rear of Engineering 
Hall.
On Tuesday morning Dr. Nees
ig with the emergency brake end the car hurdled a low protecting; wall, slewed sidewise, rolled over twice, and landed upright on -a cinder roadway 50 feet boloV.
Dr. Nees was unhurt except for
research under direction ot-Dr.
Alumni Group 
Gives Dance 
For Seirs
Eddie Weitzs Orchestra 
Is Engaged; Affair 
To Be Informal
Federation will be held Friday, May 31, from 9 to l. In Thistle Hall. The dance will he informal 
Eddie Welt2B orchestra hBB been engaged for the occasion. This c chestra la already known on tL_ campus, having: played at the Costume Ball .during Spring Carnival. 
...Each Hsnlor Is. Jnvlted to. attend arid may brine a guest, not necos- arily a Carnegie student. Tickets
itatlQn of Federation dues will be
members .of their class for. berr.hlp Ih 'the Alumni Federation, Special rat?? oh .dues have been ^ade. fpr/senlors,;..Those.who Join
1935. This rate Is Just one-half the regular Tate of $3.00.An . active-paid membership in
erallon. The Federation also takes care of orders for foolba)) tickets at home and abroad, .tickets other sports events, student ever aiid other activities. "rThe Federation also publishes the-Alumni Directory and'provides funds for scholarships to assist worthy students at' Carnegie. Homecoming and clasB reunions are. also arranged. Carnegie Dollar Day was inaugurated and Is kept by the Federation.Organization' of alumni groups in various cities and . plans for clan-activities are other things In which .the .Federation assists. It also supervises Clan Day, which is held the second Saturday of every March, at which time all groups throughout the.country hold meetings. r .Every person .who has received a .certificate, diploma, or degree from Carnegie Is a member of' tl^eF.edemtJp,.One jtear. oS day ^bpol or two of night school entitles the person to an associate membership.A Hat ef -seniors', now soliciting for paid memberships to the Federation follows:
Sororiti9 Elect 
Council Officers
M. Bowers Named President; 
V. Mathews, Vice Pres*
elected officers for tho coming year at. a recent meeting. Maud L. Bowers ;36. Department of Painting -and- Dccor-ating.. a- member of- Gamma Gamma -Gamma sorority.- and. former treasurer of Intersoror- iiy councll was elected president: Virginia F. Matthews 36. Department of Home Economics, member, of Kappa Phi Delta:-was elected vice.preslednt, and .Catherine M^
Beta Tau Lambda, was chosen second vice president.Carolyn A. Herron 36. . DepartDecorating. member of Beta Pi. chosen as tbe new treasurer. -The vice president will act. as
Interfraternity CouncilNames New Officers < 
For 1935-36 Term
Heads Fraternities
111 
W
Delos J* Bronnlng, who was 
eleoted president of 1nterfratrnlty Council for next year.
35 Graduates 
May Obtain 
Iny ita ti ons
Three Sets Are Available 
At Registrars Office 
Afler Today
Information for the Commence
ment exercises has been sent to 
each candidate' for a degree, tilplomd, or-oertlflcate." Each mem
ber of ..the! graduating class, in ay 
obtain/three sets' of ommencemont Invitations, without .expens^, 
% ^alSfw^[M^o,giBi(irtsTViflcei 
after today. Th office will be 
open Monuay evenings frotn 7:30 
to.8:30 for the-convenience of the night graduate.Ttckets . for admission to the Commencement Exercises may he 'secured at the SAme time. Thr.ee tickets will be Issued to each graduate,, and additional tickets, may be secured upon request.The Baccalaureate service will be held at 8:00 on Sunday (Ing, June 0, In the'Carnegie Music hull. The service Is for Iho graduates, their friends,' and the faculty. No cards, of admission are required. The ' address will be given by the Rev. Dr. Thomas Wsley Graham; Dean of tbe Grad; uate School of Theology, Oherlln College.The Commencement Exorcises will: be held In the Syria Mosque at 10:30, 'Monday morning, ' June 10. - Major General Edward M. Markham, Chiefof Engineers, United States Army, wil] deliver tho Commencement' address.
Candidates 
Are Installed
Phi Kappa Phi Initiation 
Held in Fine Arl
Initiation of tbe recently elected candidates for membership in the Carnegie chapter of Phi Kappa Phi, national scholastic honorary fraternity,'will be held lli Uie Exhibition room in the College of Fine Arts on tomorrow afternoon at five oclock. Dr. L. O. Grnndahl, Director of Research of tho Union Switch and Signal Company, Swiss- vale, will be tlie speaker nt the dinner which will follow the
the Commons,In addition to Dr. G-rondahl* talk, the subject o which wilj be CosmlC Rays," there will be an address delivered by Di\ Lawrence R. Guild, head 'of the Department of Commercial Engineering, who was recently elected Secretary-General of the national organization of Phi Kappa Phi.The committee on arrangements
I Coming Events
I: <10Broadcast by-: A Cappella ChoirWWSW . from -Exblbi- tlon Room: 3:30Threevcone.act playsSluQuarter HourFriday 7:15T-. BroadcastExhibition Room. 8:30VNlce: PeopleLittle The, ater Sunda^-.8; 15Mus le : Concert and Broad* -, castCarnegie :Mnsic HalL ,0
Delos Branning Elected 
President; Kissel Is 
Vice President
PRESIDENT REVIEWS 
YEARS ACTIVITIES
Retiring Group Drawing. 
Up List of Suggestions 
For New Council
Delos J. firannlug *36. president 
of Theta XI social fraternity, wnn 
elected head of. Interfrntorultv 
Council for tho term 1086-38 nt Itfcvregular meeting. Saturday morniuff.  
Hubert J. Kissel '36 was chosen , 
vice president: Donuld C. BlaeVwood '3t> und Alvin L,-Gursha 30 
were elected treasurer and socrvtnry. respectively.
Mr. Kissel, president of Doha
chulrmnn of the annual Interim- temitv formal.
Mr. Blackwood, the new trens> urer, Of president ot the Alpha Tan- Omega social fraternity. : The newly eleoted seoreiary, Mr.- GurBho;Ef a member of the Tau Delta.,Ph|., soclnl fraternity.  Ho Is also clr culatlon manager of the Tartan.
Allen E). Rlsedorph, an Instructoi In the Department of Physical. Training,: was re-elected rucoltj culviser of the organization
Julian F. Munster, retiring1 pi'qo- Ident of tho council, summed up tha . yenr s activities. The four major;; points the proup had undertakenSuccessfully prevailed the nilRetrieved control of Intertrater- ' ntt formul from Student Council Unsuccessfully . attempted; i to. change' rnshlng season' to a.ifew weeks after school opens In the fall ; 'Planned a fraternity magazine to be published in September The- retiring officers and niem-; bers ot tnterfrnternlty Council ors ' drawing up a list of' recommendh- :- tlons for. the new council, whloh will be submitted before tbe closfr , of the semester. . ;
Required Courses 
Set for Summer
Summer Surveying Class 
To Attend Camp. Davis 
Three, courses in.. Summer  Surveying are being offered in the 1985 - Summer Seaslon-r-two > in Fteld Work and one In Theory and -Prae^-' tlce.
The first course of Field-Work is' required of students In the general  course In Civil engineering. It Is a  six weeks' course, from June 10 to: July,20 Inclusive, at Camp Davle- W ' : Va.. .The. second,course required of students in the building constrifr- tion option In Civil engineering: Ofn e three weeks course: froni' June ' 10. to June 29. Inclusive, at-Gamp '- Dayls. The instructors, for both of -ihse.,coyrscs> ard^Etotesaoro ton and Daniel
The- third course/ Theorv anil Practicei la required ot students iri ' chemical., commercial, electrlcfiii  
turc. This two weeks course Is x- _ the campus, from June lO-22'..inclu- : slve ov from September 3-16 lijclu-  ; sive. The enrollment In the .Tui
and Mr. Kohl, for the June period. :
Three Comedies 
Given at MatineeI
ofte;act comedy in two scenes;"- by Kathryn Ken . ;Todd:. a ,Pitt-^' burgher, - and greeted by -Walter- Derdeyn. The second act from^Oacaj-r Wildes "Idear Husband." :dlredfea^. by Dr. Lero! ,r rill nl r1oO ousy Plays a Part/r by Chsftep' .George,. and^dlrected.-hy.v-iCdvftril^; Palklt,...will make up .the .restiOtiw the program. .  , The-night division of the dran^ dephrment will also presents'^ se^ ^.' les-of^playsr.in. the .Unlon'.ofyAi^ministration . Building-on :Wednefr-v day-and Thursday: ev< nlnK No tickets will he required tor the formances:which^will hegln at 7wdhri
pC r
vV
\r

---------------------------------------------------

*. pH.. r 1 --*
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. MAY~21. 1933
Wat Carnele 3Tartau
PHONE MAYFLOWER :A. C. E. Horizon 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Robert P. G . ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR: Jam ASSISTANT FEATURE EDITOR: LouiseJUNIOR EDITORS: Louise Bnldy. A .Dorothy Booth Richard Byrne. Toby Homer, William Lord. Alberta McCl>
SPORTS STAFF: Eugene Fentuw>n, .Add
How Your Activilcis Fee 
Is Apportioned
The diagram on the left shown how the < money' received from student activities fees vis apportioned. Three-quarters of the receipts .go to the Cornegie Athletic Association but not all of the moueyls used by the men^s-as- /sociation. From the general athletic appro- : prlatlon the'Womens Athletic Association gets oue dollar for each girl enrolled. The Tartan proposes that a third organl: gets a direct portion of
By Grove Patterson 
tfitor, the Toledo Blade; President, The 
American Society of Newspaper Editor 
Reviewing the state of the nation, as'I as*, 
ime it is my duty to do although Dot your 
duty to listen, I would divide the situation, 
bich we are confronted Into three twofields. They are the political, the 
economic, the social.
the political field wo still have the two 
major-party system. 1 believe that two strong 
parties should be maintained; that we Bhould 
>t break down into a confusing mess of blocs. 
The Democratic party grew out of a letter 
rltten by Thomas Jefferson In the second 
inn of George Washington. In it he set forth 
his philosophy of: government. and human
The Republican party was born out of the 
moral isspe of slavery. "When they were both 
ell under way, they were differentiated by 
three distinct issues. The Democratic party 
stood for states rights and a weak federal 
government.
It stood for the retention or slavery ag an 
economic necessity and it stood for free trade. The Republican party adhered of few states* righ' eminent. It stood iy the abolition of a high protective tariff.
What has happened? The states rights sue In the old sense bas practically disap ared. . The., slavery Issue has disappeared. Both parties are. high tariff parties.
And now, daring to tread into prophecy, I believe that the time liae come for a realign' The coming generation will not stand wingless major parties. The day wil come when they-.wlll mean something. Evei the name may he changedto the Liberal and the Conservative.
With this , new alignment, newspapers ing to be called upon for a-iijgh quality leadership, for the most intelligent interprethe Thistle out. of. every fif
teen dollars received for activities. The new distribution Is graphically shown ou the right.
Subsidize the ThistleI
N A SHORT two weeks the Carnegie This
tle for. 1935 will make its appearance. Al: 
ready the staff officers for tlie 1936 year book 
V have been approved by Student council.
 ;Each year the members of the junior class 
...who assume the responsibility for producing 
. a year book, which will reflect creditably-4ipon 
i.V.thftjEnrollment and prestige of Carnegie, have 
: one' mountain-sized obstacle to contend '
: How is the Thistle to be financed?"
"-We propose that the school subsidize the 
^publication of the Thial. This propositi; 
ri new .one. Previous proposals have ; 
-reased as far os the Executive Board, bu 
: definite action has been forthcoming,
.V.  guaranteed budget, is a necessity ii 
'expect to have avcompletely successful year 
book. A*, the present time the income.upon 
. " which the Thistle budget is baaed depends 
almost entirely upon advertising receipts, In. /come from sales, and an appropriation from 
-the .Student council. An unvarying budget Is 
impossible when the lucome is controlled by 
factors which cannot be fixed.
' ; If the Thistle staff could be assured of 
; fixed income they could produce the very best 
;book possible with funds which they could de' 
.pend upon.
. We offer two plans which would guarantee, 
 a steady Income for the Thistle. First, we 
.'would suggest a redistribution of the fifteen 
 dollar activities tee: Under present condi' lions one organization Is receiving more than 
'two-thirds of the amount! If just one dollar 
cold be aet aside as a year book fund the 
,"*$2,000 raised In this manner, plus Income from 
.'sales to lower classmen, and advertising Untme, would make the Thistle a financial;f,Nu
- i^Another scheme would be..to ns.sep fach_in
coming freshman a graduation fee.' At. the 
^present time this charge ismade. during the 
. 'senior year. Experience has /shown that a 
-^'goodly number of entering freshmen never 
? .graduate. Now< if this goodlr number who fall 
j^bythe weyslde had already paid a gradu**-'  
r- :  fia, this money could be .set aside- and a ThisJ tl fund gradually built up.
Both o these plans have possibililiei 
: we. pledge our support to any plan which 
would guarantee-a fixed income to the Carilegie year book.
! will as social,
tatlon of i
Roving taking :
i and measures, 
w into the fiel  long look. I .ieconomics, loo greatly 
disturbed by the economic erne of tho With a mere fraction of the worlds ulation, we producc 40 per cent of Its minerals. We produce 40 per cent of the shoes of the world; cut 62 per cent of timber; inake 54 per cent of Its iron; 64 [ cent of its steel; produce 66 por cent Of its petroleum; 70 per cent of its agricultural products, and 90 per cent of Its automobiles. 
We have nevev suffered from over produc- on, but from faulty distribution. I liave faith ml the amazing ingenuity which devised thi ost amazing machine tor production thi orld ever knew, will finally devise a plan for more equitable distribution.
Never before has It been so clearly tlie duty ! newspapers, with the extraordinary facilities for reaching into the lives aud hear minds of .people, to think long and wo itedly to bring constructive'.suggests en ip'-public; ofllce... ..
\yith the social field T am more concerned. In the social fleirf, I aee. with continulng-con :ern, the ravages of crime. We are' now lmv ing 12,000 murders a year in the TJnltec States. That is 1,000 a month; That\j>reaki iwn to 33 a dayone every 45. minutes.
In Chicago, for example, there'are rnori than 400 killings yearly. In London, twice th< size, there are from 25 to 29. In London there ictlons out of 29 murders. Ii Chicago there will hot be even arrests in mor< than one-half the cases. In any.of the'larger 
f. there aTe more homicides * in all England and Wales. Why One.reason is the di 
loopholes are many hi
Writers Row.
LawUnited States. Our 
slowly. . When a man___-der In England he is likely-to bIs way to the gallowe week after next, merlca he Is likely to be dn his way to the ourt of appeals year, after iiex 
But the delav In the court Is not the prlncl- al reason. Wherein lies the enforcing pow of the law? Not In the police, not. In the office of the prosecuting attorney. It lies in the peo- who make the law. It lies in public opin- . And a new public opinl.on is. what Anier- h newspapers are now called to build and foster. By ouv disregard of little laws we >ate general disrespect for big laws. For every hundred who drive through a red traffic, light, three will commit a-more, serious crime.
f-a. child--4ta.rt to kindergarten in America he is taught that above all things, he must not become a/tattletale. He must uot tell on anybody. If others do wrong he must, bo silent. In England* the -*hoie direction is different. When an-Englishmen sees another in even a. trifling breach of the law, he immediately reports it. It . In. automatic with him. It Is tradition, and sound tradition. There is created, from childhood, a public opinion which abhors crime.
It is the high obligation of newspapers to cfeate a new public opiniom in relation to crime in the United States. There suppre;
; It Is Up to the Fraternities
WAS a step in the right direction when 
a;jLthe Executive board passed
lug,, concerning delinquent fraternity accounts, 
iiv '.yEifective September first all fraternity m'< 
,?,i&riio have unpaid house bills will uot recer 
^:<i*their diplomas. The Board bas don Its pai 
wt$nw2C34 it is up to tlie individual fraternities 
\ 5 ^co-operate.
fraternity is a business,
^^[organization. No.busineis ,e 
;;-;Mits income dioes not cover Its expenditures. 
f ^Overdue fraternity accounts are not merely 
- fro?en assets, most of them will never be paid.. 
P^:^6.'man, and least of all a. college student, 
p^Bhould be indifferent enough to sponge upon 
p&ftlhe'loyalty and friendship of those-he calls 
- brothers. 
Is no question upon which the fraternl* 
he soft hearted. It Is no blow at the 
pride to give the; deanU. office the 
^^ ^nimes of those who have failed to meet their
&-^*iuestlon, the: fait' arises that recently - frater^^ nities. have petitioned the .Executive ,'Bpard 
'ibij-'-- flsrtal - -fcivilegeH. cancacnlngriiflhlng.
Naturally the Board  .will watch the 
|||5^^oer.';ih:'whlchL the new!rule is. eraployed.by 
v-^-the^housee.v''^^^ibiiernltles fail to, take advantagejof-the 
iewV-p6w^re-;.whlch. have: been-'allowed, they, 
^'expegt: that' the iExecutfye Board'wjll pay 
^n^itt^ntloh:;Jto /.petltiona iforr etlll .more.
............
That way li laxity, to forgetfulness,  to ii Constantly we must attack official 
through fear
onipele
Finaly, about thi of which you h' think we l;ave I: And that is ours Frankly, I
freedom of the press heard so much. Frankly, I thing to worry about
DAHLIAS SENSE OF HUMOR
You mean LuClnda said I bad no sense 
of humor? LuCinda! Humph. Welt, she 
should talk. 'I suppose she thinks she'e 
showing tier's when slie sticks those bucic 
teetli out In that phony grin. Well, all I ' 
say is that Jf I had her teeth Id never 
smile. I'd be .cynical like Garbo. And look 
at the'things she smiles at! They arent 
funny. Slapstick. Nothing but low com
edy slapstick.
Now, take the other day at the movie. I 
was sitting there absolutely bored and dis
gusted because the^ picture was. about cus<  
tard pies. Custard pies! Imagine. Then 
someone -in back of me started to bellow . 
like a bull. I kiiew right away it was Lu>. . 
Cindathat uncouth bray could nevertool 
me. There she was,. laughing at custard 
pies. Humph. Custard pies urent a( all 
funny compared to her face. Hub! Just, 
imagine her face with a custard pie ou It 
what-'-a-mixture! -The thought -of it leaves me simply helpless. Ob! Awph. Im choking. I always choke when I laugh 
like that.
But as I was Baying, while I dont want to pretend Im superior, slapstick' stuff just leaves me cold. 1 like things that are subtle. In the newspapers I see things that most people dont even understand. Last night I almost laughed myself into a comabut did others laugh at the same piece of information? No. 1 read at least
On Other 
Campuses
six people a veiarticle about balcony that fell on a man and squashed him. Not one person even so much as smiled. They couldnt even appreciate-humor, let alone say "anything'humorous. I guess I'm just lucky, being able to do both. For Instance, take what I said this after*-, noon duriug the news reel. They-were showing that Italian with the bald head andjust llko thatI thought of the funniest-thing. I said, Mouselinis a. big cheese! You see? MussoliniMouselinl mousecheese. Do you get it? .Well,. Bome Italian woman In back of me didnt get it. She wanted to hit me over. the - head with her umbrella. . But just the same, lots of other people thought I was witty. If they didnt, why did they laugh whn I ,crawled out from under the seat?
Of course. Im used to people who think Im cleverMrs. Pendleton, for instance. The other night at her dinner party I pulled the funniest joke.: of my life: Even Airs. Pendleton, who knows me, was- astonished. The dinner party was at a: very uppish hotel. Well, 1 simply, couldnt stand one ofthe waiters. He was looking down his nose at me as much as to say, What .do I care if you don't like my service? Ill get a tip-anyway.' He knew lhat Mr. Pendleton tips like a perfect fool. Finally I dcclded to. show that waiter his place. But rather than make a rowI simply cant stand , rowsI decided to be
shouted gaily, When a man bites a dog, it's news. Now. wasnt that subtle? It was just the same as saying, You groat big clumsy lout! Youve;, poured^ soup. . down other peoples backs and. now. it's, your turn. W,ell,* he was; very subdued' ofter that. . Never said a word:' Acted as,.; ;though:;he. knew'his plac?. ;\ut: when desrfl
s. rrtniat a combination! especially since people .were., so ' slow getting my joke that' they didntntil he ........f fooli his side. But, of course, I knew
MAGAZINE MERGER?Syracuse(MCEA)Heated stu
dent and faculty comment was aroused by a rumor that the Orange Peel, humor magazine, and the Argot, literary paper, were going to merge. The final concensus of opinion, however, was that the presence of the lighter side or life might. Interfere with- the high Ideals of literary excellence.
BLOCK PERIOD BEFORE FINALSSyracuse (MCEA)Ninety-tv per cent of tfie students voted in favor of having a block week period before final examinations, but the faculty downed the Idea, argu ing lack of time and interferenc
PONIES LAID ON SHELFDartmouth (ACP) Ponies, thoi handy little books which college students fall back on when their foreign languuge reading gets though, will be of no more use i Dartmouth College, at least in tv enguage courses, as a result of lecieion by the college administra- .ion lo couduct courses in Italian and French literature, using English translations for the text bookr 
No. knowledge of the language will be required. in either of thi courses. The tv to the currlculu: literature of tl
society of ib.uti
THE PAST. WEEK-END was just another campuB week to many, rather a continuation of,'with 
few days in between to recuperate a SAFETY GUARD RAIL. anyway, samlnatlon wee^ 1 WOULD PREVENT ACCIDENTS 111 be a good Ume to rest up for Dear Sir. the P. & D. P.s that, will follow1 personally, we have-our own 
acation planned to wit: get up at|an(i hja'car hurtled dowti the steep 
ibankmenf iu back of Engineering Hall; The cause of the mishap a faulty brake, but it would have been prevented by a proper safety device in the form of a strong guard rail 'along the tp of the
ry day more than a hundred nembere the risk of similar accident with perhaps serious results.
The. cost of erecting a guard rail would be small in proporition to the feeling of safely It would afford. 
How about it. Col. Fairley? .................... R. G B
additions
) the respective civillzalons.The idea was suggested In editorials of the Daily Dartmouth* i dent newspaper, and will be gift trial for one year., '
CARIOCA VERSUS QUARANTINEUniversity of Minnesota (BTNS)Sigma Chi men spent last Friday evening looking tie red marks on their arms in; stedd of doing the carioca scheduled spring formal,
and waited for . i nity men to recover from tack of scarlet fever.
It seems that the sick m
the last party the i
looked as if he. '
le 
HoboThis column Is for the use of the student body of Carnegie. Letters printed are the opin. Ions of readers and should not be confused with the editorial policy of the Tartan.
and have an' eye-opener; breakfast; have another eye- opener; have a night-cap; have another night-cap; go to bed; get up t twelve oclock midnight; have six nfght-caps; go. back to- bed
and of plenty moon . . . the Delts celebrated with a dance at thePines ____ low .lights and. sweetmusic predominated, among othei things . . . the Kappa Slgs held
nt their time across thi
MARGIE GREEN returned where she had narked her car eek only to find, much to chagrin, a yellow tag under tho " shield wiper . . . upon the he found inscribed the follov earning: BOO ...
sore fore-finger bruised himself on a dial phone, tryine to get a date . . . just call me Luke . . . Im not so hot . . .
TOMMY P\RK=m entertained some of his friends and some of his fraternity bros - on Saturday night with spaghetti, pretzels and what goes with it ... he showed movies of campus week and everything ... after the feed, they all gathered at the Beta House for a radio' dance . . . thats a nice qutet way of spending the evening, we'd
LAST THURSD*Y EVENING Little Italy' was the scene of a spagettl eating, contest held between the architectural nrofs" and the seniors . . . Jerry Milono was hltrh nolnt innn with 373. vards at his crert't which in a hlfr iiTihfifivnl . . . After tts 
dinner the fellows w*nt on ft., h ur to see the new type l (Homestead.
MAKE THE LINK FORGINGA WORTHWHILE CEREMONYTo the -Editor of The Tartan:C 1 noticed tho exercises week In connection with the forging of the link. I was impressed with the opportunity for making thies little ceremony sufficiently picturesque as to becoi the campus traditions. Why noti dress the forges in a costume suggestive of Vulcan, have one of our music students compose , appropri-. ate music, and ask Miss Kitcat to arrange a fitting eurhythmic dona
By Barbara Levette
very simple game, 
take a righteous group of pWp]e 
starving - negro boy 
picked an orange from one 
five thousand trees in Colonel Per. 
rybuckets orchard. You give uie 
obI mean the group of rlgbl* 
xs peoplea rope and clubs; 
if lhat Is not handy, you givc them 
ime tar, feathers, and 
Next, Justice is called upon to lock 
the boy up for his crime 
cautioned to leave, the key in 
place where it will not bo macb 
trouble for the mob to get it when 
they want Itthe sheriff's pocket, for instance. Then the rlgbteooi ones circulate some stories calco- lated to touch .the hearts of tb good people of the community, am incidently to work up a general feeling of hatred against the boy a the county jail.
Stories telling how Mies lcc Blossom Jones was walking along the mill stream road - (only t*o miles from the orchard) the nlgiil of the robbery; how she camel home crying, with a scratch c her neck and arm. Or, perhaps a movibg tale about little' Master I Perrybucket's pet bloodhound, who B ry big splinter in his Ml 8 hind foot, while chasing the ihleLg Alter honest sentiment Is worked! up through a few masterpieces oi fiction, the rest' will be very eas;.|
oi ho
COME ON IN . . . PARKING'S LOVELYUniversity of Texas  (ACP)  Near the university grounds is Petters Park which is always protected by. the policewho nevei bother the students! It came | ibout after, a series of molestings md shootirigB: in- the: park.
FREE FROLICUniversity of Minnesota I (BTNS)In line with the reporlirv.ey ithe Univerlooked much nicer with lota of -weeds around themthe way hers were. It made a contrast 
Gut, of course, Mrs. Pendleton is prejudiced. Ive helped hervso' manytlmes-tiiat naturally shes grateful to me. Why, 1 even got rid of Aunt Sarah (or her. Aunt Sarah had been visiting Mrs. Pendleton for a week before I got stck of seeing her.I'm at the Pendletons' most of the day, because they simply can't get along without me, so I had plenty of time' lo notlce- that they simply loathed Aunt.Sarah. They . did cover .their feelings up pretty well, but I know that they only put .up .with her he- money. They It was Let me. get. on cusuiuii iui ;uur back,. Aunt Sarah and Do set out of the draught, Auntie ll dear. until It would have turned your - stomach. I decided It was. tlme for me to use the light touch. I used it on Aunt Sarali simply by sticking out my foot, tripping her and.puilfng.off.her^wiff. She left right away. The funny part 1s, she died two weeks later and left all her money to a secood cousin iu Nevada. Mrs.' Pendleton was a little bit annoyed about the. money. She blamed me. But If shed had a real sense of humor, shed have got a -million dollars* worth of fun out of Aunt Sarali without her wig.
But Mi's. Pendletons sense of humor is Improving a little. The other day she tried a very feeble joke. She told the ' maid to tell me shes wasnt home, when all the time I could 'see her standing behind the curtain. Of course  joke' was childish, hut It was o attempt. She .can't expect to
of a social : slty of Mini mended inexpensive social activities for both nven and women, th is self government association is sponsoring free dance inns .every Wednesday In the Union | from 3:30 until 5:15 p. m.
The second dance | such a large
attracted 
d that most of the furniture had to be moved out of the cafeteria to make room. However, men outnumbered wo- (Editors note | Attention, Carnegie tea dan
HOW TO RATE EMPLOYMENTUniversity of Alabama(ACP) -The difficulty college graduates I experience in obtaining employ- is due in great part to their I own iriertla, Dr. Burton Morley. professor of economics at the University of Alabama-r declared recently in an interview.
5'The better half of any graduat- l ing classthose with the better scholastic and extra-curricular recordsusually have little trouble, foremost of.them will be employed within a period of not more than months' -iter* graduation," Dr. Morley explained. It is those w' ' graduate in the lower half  of ' ithe C aud 'D students who engage .in no campus activities who present the problem."
The lower half students, Dr. Morley pointed out, have little tc
THE K-A.PPA. PT*f DELTA nrom- fcnt Maggie " Murnh sororltv hfild their pnmial snrlng formal 2 other nicht. Mary Wettach d Smiles Sherman were accom- nanied by Cousins" Bnrke f*nd nnort at the cala *?alr. Also wore Mr. and M-n. Pavisi, .y Demins.  Betty Hawthorn. .Tavne Henderson, all attended their off-camnus "Cousins. Sufrar Lehne was thei;e, sweet i usual. 
"STTTVE TR.BOVICH wan all alone at the Stanley Friday rieht down in the front rnw . Didn't vo get Lupey" sitting so close Steve?
the dorm. Revived by D Markd she was taken to the Infirmary suffering from Ptomaine poisoning caused by t
meddle Into student concerns, but ily offer this little plan as a suggestion which might make our campus ceremonies even more appropriate than they are at present.N. *H. D. 
A LOUNGING ROOMFOR ARTS SCHOOLDear Editoi .Since the. administration in Arts School has started a clean-up nalgn on the Architects, I would like to suggest that they their .campaign to some of the other departments.
think of nothing school that needs to be cleaned up more than the south, first-floor st way in the College of Fine Arts 
The students in the Dram?, irtment seem to have no plac ist their weary  bodies except i these stairs. Often it is with utmost difficulty that one Is able to make his wav through the mass of human flesh that Is strewn all over the s-alrs.
I think that steps should be taken
should be given implements with which .to plough theiv way through the offenders.
mand the key. the sheriff will g
rest of the game needs i tlon-^-merely follow and the mob; ' .
Ah, yes, its a fine game children M And If they' catch you, spending a night in jail is little t
senatorial position. But piny Ihel music loudly and let the son out; for if the noiee of merrymak-1 ing ceases, you will hear a ing and a crying in the little huts g along the river. Others will k it; tooand wonder:
For a while you may muffle the | sighs with your songs and : music.; hi.it. there are many ps In the shacks along the river, their voices are penetrating, There g are people, too, who believe t all men are created equol." When g you murder negro boys, they s' tier: for. it is their brother yon killing. They can not stnn much longer, thoy will not sland I
Alumni News
At a recent monthly dinner meeting of the Canton Clan, the following officers were elected: President Mark S; Dowens, Eng. 24; Vice PresidentGrace Butcher Pike, M.C. C. 2,0'; SecretaryRosemary
Friday evening, May 24, in VMm- bos Restaurant, 834 Calherlni Street, starting at 6:30 p. m.A ten course dinner, cooked In g the fine Italian style for which g Palumbos are famous, the festivities of the evening. Four g shows have been scheduled willi| eight acts of entertalrimerit. Muslcf will be by Bobby Morrow, who |ises to play a number of Car- g uegle song hits.
A private room has been placed I
little
k. and not the .. less disturbed about the 
freedom of the press in the United States-than I am about the disposition of loo many news- I paper editors not to d anything with the free
dom that is theirs.:., While there are, of course,.exceptions..my experience with newspaper publishers and. owners Is-that they, \vant progressives, construc-. tlve, hard-hitting, ' thoroughly courageous editors. Too*frequently.we fall to take advantage of our positions;-too freduently- we take the easiest way, too frequently we rest, in the lethargy of:inattention;to great matters. We somehow-believe In the. myth of automatic progress. W think- the country will muddle through, and- so'we edito muddle with (he
And o thevcuntF:,probably will muddle through'. But there is Intellectual and spiritual decay'in personal, editorial muddling. .
- The press of the Unlled States, does not suf- fer-'from lack of freedom. It .has had.it tra- dltlohally.and.lt has it now and we are going tp see-to it. that we keep on having it. But .wi^' some, notable exceptions, _to whom, we ^pint^wtt . prlcle,. we 'viffr' 'from edt'rlr In-' activity and mental'indolence. The press does not lack. edurg, - hut. in.-t.oo many,quarters, /courage has ,gtoym "rsty--with disuse; . ,
. :Despite the usu alnnual crop'-'of.'criticism, the people of this country, In my. opinion,. waut: a fre4Npress .and mean.; to . maintain. It. ; And even -if the majority-; are. at;the: moment,lndlt ferenti wa.new:sppenren,.acting,J^li-any .fair, degree of coixcert, n*ve tne means for; *rewhetlier she thinks- I have n sense o 
PORTEA MATTHEWS.
Into terms of personal responsibili 
We become tremendously: excited about these later amendments to the constitution of the United States, few of which nlshed a' first-rate issue, and we almost forget the first 10 amendments to the constitution; which form the bill of rights, by virtue ot which we have In this country those splendid liberties 'which have now Become rare and ex? traordinary on the face' of the earth.
. ..Here'are prinelplfeb worOxipreser.vlng, wor.tl(. flghtlng.;ior, worth dying for.' -And
which th liberty . of\\he people as a whql^; shall, be preserved.
. momentlgo'-Y'am"not'7apec'ifiiially so concerned .with -the freedom - of thV press, but-1'ain concerned about the i>reserv? tio'n .of those liberties'-.of political..audciyl ahd'socia action.which;shall-.fti; due..time, for. our'chilren if not for ourselves,- make-a thor oughgoing- success of this-American experl*:
nent in .true /democratic t V-IfUt : slips and , falls;- i .'111 ;he- to- blame; : ' \ '.. S
vendent.
apartment' f ' Work.
Its the tobacco that counts, and there are no 
finer tobaccos than those used in Luckies

---------------------------------------------------

*****ItSP
______________________________________THE rVH NFC.1^TA WTN. TUP-ST)\Y. M\T 21. 19S5
T HE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
 9
By SCOTTY CHARLES
W|TH THE ATHLETIC SITUATION AT CARNEGIE for the year 
1934.1935 slowly settling back on Us heels for the final pushover Jn a 
vfeek or so, your scribe decided that It would be a swell time for a 
little rambling. After interviewing anyone who would slop long 
enough t0 be Auo*ed we Anally rounded up this column full of ehitMAX HANNTJM TOOK HIS FEET DOWN OFF HIS DESK LONG 
(noueii lo tell us that the plumni golf team, is more than ready for the 
varsity. At present the alumni are trying .to find a diploma for Tom 
Davies, freshman football coach and an ace golfer In his Blu right.
The match will probably be played at-the Field Club. Those arriv
ing late for the first round can probably get all the details in the replay 
at the Club bar in the evening. Last year the alumni took the second 
bair with ease ana ale.
AS GUY HALFERTY PREDICTED, his tracksters took it easy to win 
over Allegheny even though some of his stars were missing. The 
boys seemed to be relaxing and had things pretty much their own 
way. The one the thlnlyclads (apologies to- Jerry Hanson) have to' 
worry about now Is the Geneva meet which threatens to break their 
winning streak. At any rate It should be a peach of a meet.
Some of the lads are suggesting'that Milt Dinger, the .Mad Monki 
of the Field House, should make some arrangement to tie or straightjacket Coach Guy who does a lot more work sprinting about the Bowl 
thany any of the boys on the squad.
KED STEWART, THE MAN WHO COPIES AND GOES, dropped in at 
the Field House a while ago antf there ran into Harpster who had tils 
ios with him. After the usual repartee the red bead Inquired:
Whats the dog good for?
Im teaching him to do tricks," stooged Harp.
"Huh, I thought you had to know more than the dog to do that,1 
sniffed Stewart. Belly-laffs from the boys in the back room as Red 
joined himself in a-hearty howl.  V
STROLLING INTO THE SERGEANT'S HEADQUARTERS THE other 
day we heard that the sophomores had shot the plebes In a match 
awhile ago. Maintaining our aplomb we asked If they,shot all of them 
or just the more offensive ones. The Sarge looked disgusted and ex
plained it was only a match and that the boys are quite good frlend6 
in a platonic way. Jack McKee, publicity man .and general stooge foi
r further detalle, read yoi
QUOTING NO ONE. WE HAVE HEARD IT RUMORED Lhat Sommers, 
maker of champions, is thinking of calling off all bets on the womens 
Tide team next year. After working with and training the girls individu
ally into front rank caliber, li. was allphtly griped at getting the dirty 
end of the stick as far a recognition was concerned.
GLEANED IN OUR TRAVELS . . The high point story of the week
comes direct from the Field House with this line on Babe Patt, the 
combination architect and football player. The other day, as the Ace 
or Altoona was toddling out of Munhalls cesspool of sin, he happened
"1 gotta go back to the Art School to charette."
When ya gotta go, ya gotta go," whipped back a moron from the
Thrills of Carnegie Indoor Sports 
Reach Peak With Spring Sessions
One very much neglected phase of Carnegie athletic life is .the Indoor sports of its boys and girls. U is our intention to keep the avid reader well posted on developments in these thrilling tournaments of shill and brains. Our notes to'date ioclude.the following" juicy tidbits:The bridge game in the Y. M. C. A. club room is progressing rapidly. The boys recently invested In a new paclc of cards and have-taken on two mor,e,,klblt*ers sunder th$ revised N. R. A. The participants in this never-ending game have not only given up going to - class and mating, but recently decided to do" away with Bleeping.
The nickel game of joit ij slow-, tag down with the two bit boys gathering momentum. All candidates for this team will kindly re- port with a pocket--full' of change as the.Iads-pay offAon-,f,verrshand and no I. O. U's. accepted.  ' *The summer session of the Carnegie crap club will not begin until the middle of June when some well* known member of the faculty will throw out the first roll faded by the.summer surveyors.
The architects' mumblety-peg tournament was brought to a hur- tteri close some weeks ago when their petition was refused by every Prof in the departmentprobably the fear of the old knifed-in-thedosely followed by Miss Thomi
S&rtyEngravinj) CmnpanjjJj
arnegiMTso sivatTdo 
JxRxm GmxJlFF cmuyOlFy 
GfxOxhmGfAy
COLOR,NEWS and COMMERCIAL^
LARGEST SELECTION OF'- -' PORTABLE AMD STANDARD-SIZED -
ipsNPtisPo
$14.95 to $75.00Ubciai Term. . . . Fm Triti _. ENT A TYPEWRITER t ThreeRental Appli
POET PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.LIBERTY" AVENUS _ WcClar BalMJm
Is a postal match started last No* vember. Most of the game9 are on their eighth m'ove, and the contest isifi the white heat atage. Mr. Mos- steller, chief spokesman for the chesters. says, I believe we are holding our own. We ain't winning much, but we aint losing much.', We hope to have^anothsr,flash bui*
been received. Watch thi umn. for the latest news on these activities.
 r; .'In case'-of fire caused' by'gas
oline or kerosonc, smother flames, 
with sand or. dirt, or with blankets, 
coats or other heavy woolen ar
ticles. Never, use water.
2. Never, throw away a.lighted 
cigarette or cigar. Grind it out.Keep a first aid li; in 
venient place.
Losta gold Elgin pocket watch in the lower washroom of Industries. Finder please return to Re- cel vIngO(Tlce1___^_^__________
Unbeaten Skih Trck Team 
Defeats Allegheny College
Skibo Netmen 
Easily Defeat 
Allegheny, 8-1
Plebes Conquer Dukes; 
Lose to Sbadyside 
And Panthers
Because of consistent rain for 
several weeks, the Carnegie tennis fans hove been denied the privilege of seeing the Tartan netmen at work. However, with the clear weather of last week, the teams
feated the team from Allegheny i
vident throughout the
defeated Shields, Goodrich Bowers, respectively, while Hess, bowed, to Nevins, giving the 'Gators their single point. Double matches were more closely contested with all three matches going to three
and Goodmai and Thompson. - Hughes and Hess fought togother to triumph over
, 5-2, in m earlier date because of inclement weather. This match was played on the Hill- toppers courts.
The piebe team  played three matches of their delayed schedule within the past two' weeks. They were victorious over Duquesne, but were defeated in succession by Shadyslde and Pitt.' Gaines, Mil- ler and Greenberg 'displayed un- sual wares In their frays.
Only two' matches remain to be played this season beforo exams
The unbeaten track team of Carnegie won its match on Saturday agaiust Allegheny to finish another, step in the attempt at on untarperience gained so far this season, Coach Halferty expects the. Tar- tans to make  a> mighty attempt ;to keep their slate clean. The 6core Saturday was 97% lo 37%.
Carnegie end . the visitors each taking four firsts. Cnmblor took the honors in the 100. but the race was close when Perlna closed up in the lasttwenty yards to finish a split second behind. Connor raced In third to give Carnegie all three places. Giolma took the 220 with his .usual ease and Connorplaced second.........Burke was hack in the line-up
evenings, respectively.
Tartan Linksmen 
Dfeat Allegheny
The Tartan golfers broke
took the remaining point is the best hall match.In the white-wash given Allegheny, the Plaid team was all unanimous in tbelr victorious style. Only Harry VoBkamp tailed take all of the three polntB alCharlie Kay continued his fine game by defeating his Allegheny opponent, a Mr.. WllHson, and scored a 78 for the low score of the day. The Carnegie lads appeared, to.,ha*e the situation well In' htnd 'frbm the first green on; but very spotty golf was prevalent in all the matches.The match was played on the .very tricky Field Club course. 
 Choose your batik - 
as you would choose 
a friend 
 . 'k - 
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa. ]
there's nothing to stop you
Of course, you could take Bill's sister 
to the Home Game and Dance  
or whatVher-name, the professor's 
daughter. ' -But-how much better 
to telephone Ihe Girl Back Home 
and invite herU The cost is tri
fling if you lake advantage of the 
low Station to Station Night Rates
Tartans Show Strength 
On Field, and Track; 
Score 97^-37H
HALFERTY POINTS 
FOR GENEVA MEET
Carnegie Scores Sweeps lu 
100 yd. Dash, 880 Run; 
Javelin and Shot
r first In the 890 amto take . ............Beall followed him for theGiolma, running his -third of the afternoon, took third. McMahoni was second in the mile and Babin took second In the mile run. Green was the only Carnegie irian' able to place in the hurdles. He took second In both 120-yard high and low.Crist, Green. Nason and James tied In the high Jump at five feet, eight Inches. .James won the broad, jump, with Perlna a close second. Fritz and Nason,  both of Carnegie, tied tor.first in the pole vault leven feet. Crist tied with an Allegheny man for third. iFltzwll- son look second "In the diecus and Brown was third.. Carnegie scoreid another sweep in the shot put. with Croft. Brown, and Hall' finishing Oe the order named. Big Dutch
second and Hall
TRACK EVENTS
ltfc*. Th:
y.
FJELn EVENTS  
<jurnjWon ^ by^Jatn
Mushball League 
Competion Ends
P. K. A., T. X., Alpha Sigs 
Meet in Final Games
 the three longue
pha, Theta Xi. and Alpha Sigma Phi are the thro? who ' will battle through the semi-final and final this week. The Pikas and Alpha Sigs
of  bye, in the flunl tilt for tin treasured trophy.
PI K. A. is without a doubt the strongest club both on the defense 
J. well ns offensively. With sucli long-distance hitters ns Lea Shomo
through with the laurels. The other two teams are confident, however. : ibat they wilt be very much in tho  thick of thlngsi and a very Interla bold .defiance of the faculty' 
gloating attempts to subject on 
and all - under their spell, the 
W. A. A. will keop the women folk engaged in sports tournaments nil week long.
Sixteen tenuis enthusiasts began their toHrmiment Inst Thursday, The vfirst matches were to have .been pluyed off by yesterday, with tlie winners of two sots out of three in each lined uj> for the
be completed, uud our tenuis stars recognised by no additional 75 points to theii' credit. , The huge
nimber of practices gives evidence
Obviously, iech co-eda lucked la former years to become tennis-minded was., of all things, a tennis courts.
This week also marks the wind* up of volleyball, archery, and senior
burg,. b.v reouest of the latter. Tkev are.planning lo shoot their matches on Prlday. and exchange results tho same day.  
There Is an unusually large toumont (some twenty-two or more) for 
tho senior ltfe.savlng fluals, which- 111 take place on Tuesday and
remains lo be seen" is all I can say.
The volleyball tournament. \ if such it maybe tilled, will be iu progress at 12:30 today and Thurs- - day. Lib Lowrey- can t decide exactly what to do with the junior ondseuior playersall three of
did height and technique of ' Carol Clark, are .sufficient to glvo confidence to the freshmen. All In ail, the books promise a neck and nock ruce between both teams, e
HOW TO CLOSE THE BOOKS
5.29 7a - COULD YOU 
.a
"*1J**'
Of course you want mildness in a cigarette. 
And the athletesto whom-wind/ healthy 
serves, "condidon-are y//Ty important 
insist qq mildness.
Lou Gehrig, baseballs "Iron Man," says: 
"Camels are so mild they never get my 
"wind. George Barker, intercollegiatc 
country champion, says: "Camels are so mild, 
they dont cut my .wind iu any-way." Bubby 
Walthour, Jr., star of the six-day bike griads, 
says: 'Tve got to have wiad* in bike^raciog. 
Foe my. cigarette I long ago chose Camels/ 
Tommy Armour,, speaking for the golf 
stars,- Bruce. Barnes'for. tennis, and Betty 
Bailey for the aquatic pores  all agree: 
"Camel dont get your wind'"
Wlrat this Rtlldneu msana to youl -It 
means you can moke as many Camels as 
you please Athletes ay Camel co tlier 
tobacco never disturb your nerve never 
tire your tastenever get your 'wind 
1M B. J BayaeUiTakCok
SO MILD
ills.
YOU CAN SMOKE L1PH 
ALL YOU WANT ! Camels are nude from finer. MORE EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS 
Turlu^h-aod-Domesticthaa gay ocher popular brand. .
( H J REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY,

---------------------------------------------------

THE 
CARNEGIE 
PL Al D",
dlM br .NIsbt School students ot*----Inrtltnte of Technolov. Allplnlooa xptoaed^in tha^cdlj^
t^EditortiJ BoL*ct the Dv: School
CftTM
fj
WILLIAM E. HASS ' GENEVIEVE SCHOLTZDAVID, o: DAVIS 
Contribute iMildred GertoB E.B.MDonJd
Student Council
i .With the regular evening classes 
broGghtto a. close. it ia time we 
make some mention of the -work 
done" by night student Council dur 
jug the past year. We sincerely be
lieve that this Council, despite the 
fact that some difficulties -were encountered at mid-term, has performed its job well. Each member took bis jobs seriously and performed it eifeclively' and In. the "beet interests of the night students. Although nothing additional was added doring the year, ail duties were performed in a very, satisfactory, manner. \V: : The possibilities-of such an or- . gsnizatlon are unlimited. The rapid progress made during the few yeare . ' of its existence should be continued in the fulure. The meetings should be more than mere 'formalities' If we are to achieve greater success.' Night student Council is Tecog- nized as one ot the best organized groups among night student bodies ii>: any" college. The thoroughness with;which duties have been'exe-. icuted in the post, substantiate-the , efficiency and soundness of its conception. The members should always' remember that their, main : doty Is to further the interests of ^the night students. LBtB continue ..the enviable pace set by the orlgln- latora of this organization.
[ NIGHT LIGHTS} |
Historical Highlights 
...of...
Night Student Council
Sally Lang and' Floyd Grimes, winners of the recent poster  awards,- achieved our favorite ambitionto make a poster that would please the N. S. C. ! . . ;  Frances Vensel found out that going. to , chhrch does one good> That Btormy petrel, Mr. Page. 1f lciiown to have literary ambitions 'himself . . . The Phi Nu monthly . paper Is more eagerly sought after aa a source of Information than the PI aid"at leeBt, by the wives of 
th Phl Nu members'
nicknamed It Out "Where the West J Begins" because of Its great open : spaces . , . Ed Blochlnger recent- : ly found himself at 2 oclock ta the morning, with hlB car stuck. In the inudand th nearest telephone two miles away! . . ... . Johnny Schurko was glimpsed ...walking disconsolately around the - hall near the draughting Toom : He claims, he was doing it 1 ; change because hie ' work oc -Thistle usually has him standing :n:hls headPun My Word Dept: Bill VenBel ;. we. three meet again? Just a chip off the old Blochinger. , A roll- log-Stone gathers nomosB . . : The {Lois thing on earth . Let fling do. re mi fa fll-hr}V\ V . -.would have spent more.jbn.'.hltn, hut 
that -was . Lalll had! Vi'!!'l-'. Now ;we!re on the night Tracht'flo-Whlte for i
HfllVwlth the Hat ^of'vtt^huta
. the Arts officers.
Invention for Color
Photos Is Perfected
 Of- interest to amateur photos-' Taphers le .a new roll of film which ,ia :being perfected. . As a. result of >years of experimentation snapshots can'now be'taken In . col- .or. ' All that is necessary Is the :Bpecial roll of film and the services -oMT branch developing agency.' At tlbe present., time the agencies are h'eing opened In'various parts of the country.-The.Idea originated 2fi years ago in France, tinder the direction of Louis Dufay, in Its early state the invention consisted of a crude geometrical color screen. Since that time, It has become quite
. The picture is taken on this film in the ordinary way without, any special lenses, etc. The picture is developed by a reversal process
 from each ot the pritheir tuition fee.
C.S. EDMAN
PRINTER  6470 Monitor Street
STUDENTSWANTED;., Fve hundred Typewriters, jail -makes, Portables and : Standard*, sold .rented re- i. paired. ..-, (3.00 - - on* month, 91000 five month*.
American Writing Machine Company
Ml LIBERTY AVENUE
ATIsntle 64M Gi oar. School representative DICK ftAMHOND
Skibo Was First Campus 
Night School Newspaper
. It has been shown that there 
.no news medium directly devoted to 
the interests of night students' dur
ing the early years of the night ses
sions. This condition laBted for 
several years. In fact, from 1906-0$, 
when Carnegie first opened its 
doors, until the. school year 1922- 
23. The need'for such a medlun by t,he administration and
suitable'name, for the periodical was of course an 'Important question and the decision to: call this bulletin The Shlbo was Indeed appropriate. Skibo being the one .of Mr. ' Carnegie's estates located in Scotland.The title page of the 'first issue.
from October until April. - It is intended for students in evening classes. It la, of course, difficult for you men and women who the Institute of Technology only In nlng to hold many assem- bltesln the course of the year. There are frequent announcements that we of the faculty would like to, make to you.' ' There is much information In connection with the Institute'that ought to be oflntei
been adonted tn the hone that the night students may be able .to keen in closer- rotations with the Institute and the members of its faculty.'This first number is written largely by the  members of stnift It Of hoped that, you of the light student -bodv may be willing
students accept nart of the editorial respoDslbillty. We have no definite nlans for the' paper except
f1 and acceptable: Send yourcommunications to the office of the Secretary, Carnegie Institute of Technology.I hone this Is going to be a very successful year, and I hope that
feel that the officers and'member., of the faculty are deeply Interested in their success.
TOBO-MAS S. BAKER."Acting President- Thus It was that'the first appeal was made to the night students as a body, and how this newspaper
president of Harvard, in a. recent book, selects the North Pole as the location of the worlds first
Night Graduates Honored By 
Dr. Baker at Annual Dinner
Event Held at Carnegie 
Inn Attracts Large 
Graduate Class
Last Thursday evening the night 
graduates were the guests of Dr 
Baker at a- dinner held at Carnegie 
Inn. These dinners have been held 
annually by Dr.. Baker since he be
came President of Carnegie Tech. 
Due to hie; Illness, he was unable 
to' attend, and sent the-following 
message,. which rvwadk'read^ by - Dr: 
Ibrlg, to tho' graduates:
It is difficult for me to express 
my disappointment at not being present.at this dinner in honor of the Night School graduates of this year. I inaugurated these annual dinners the year that I became President of the Institute of Teclr hoJogy and this is the first year
anfl i expect to be able'to cdrrj/ on as'usual my work next'fall. During my absence my friend and colleague, Dr. Watkins,; has.managed the affairs of the Institute most admirably. .*
Dr. IbTig tells me that (he
Dr. Ihrig has been in charge of the evening classes for many years Is largely responsible for the
you on the excellent work you ha1 done this year and to tell you that I hope to see you at commencement.
Board of Trustees, Mr. Porter, and embera of our faculty. These speeches I shall miss, but I. shall ilss particularly the speeches that will be-znade by you graduates. Wishing you all success and hopTHOMAS S. BAKER. Mr. John L. Porter, chairman of e committee on the Carnegie Institute of Technology of the. Board
slstant to the President; Dr. W. N. Jones,* Director of the College of Engineering; Dr. P. S. Barto, Examiner; Professor R. B. Lelghou, Associate Director of  evening courses? Mr. John D. Beatty, head of the'Bureau of Recommenda- HhspMr. W.-N. James, Manager he News .Bureau; Mr.' R. H. teraon. of the Bureau of Ree- lendatlons; Mr. D. JicKelway, Assistant to the Registrar.Following is a list of the, graduAT THE BALL
You a vant to Look Your Best
HIGH GRADE FOOTWEAR AT LOW PRICES
Littles specialize in Samples and Cancellations ofthe 
World's Finest Shoes.
LadiesEvening Slippers
Values to $22.60,i. $3) 341 End $5
- ....... Sizes 1 to 10AAA 4. to" C
Mens Dress Oxfords m Patent, dya Suede
Values-to $12.60' 1~
$4 aod $5
. . Sizes 5 to 14A A A A to 13
Littles Shoe Store
5860 Forbes Street _ Pittsburgh, Pa.
Squirrel Hill
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Ferbaa and Meyran'
pH.r1 owYuwAc 
twAYi
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY 
?
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
9 who were present .at the din;
M. S. DegreesCollege' of . Engineering
Samuel Jory, Mechanics; H. G.
M. A. Degreefr^-Colieoe of 
Fine Arts <S. G. Ambrlts, Miss M. J. Gallagher, Mies Elizabeth Graf, Music Education.
D. S DegreesCollege of Engineering 
. F. J.-M; ShadIsh, J. J. Ward! Chemistry; R. C.. Cbeeseman, Ciyll Engineering; 'J. R, ' Cticcliiara, C. F. Hefft, G. L. Mueller, C. H. Young, R. G. Young, R. G. 'Edeall, Electrical Engineering; P. F. Final)!, T. Hengstenberg, vWm. Van .Trlest, Wm, A. Vensel, Mechanical Engineering; A. M. Cox, Metallurgy.
B. A. DegreeCollege of Fine Arts 
 Miss A. L. Mertz, Art Education. CertificatesCollege of Fine Arts
Dickie, T. M_ Beely, M. A. Lazorcak, J. J. Pegmato, P. F. Sparrow, L. A. Wisei-Archltecture. . 
CertificatesCollege of : Engineering 
J. J Gallagher,.Civil; R. S. James. M. B. Tinker. Electrical; ' J. M Jaycox, ,T. J; Werner, Mechanical: D. W. Gruber, A* L. Hurst, Metallurgical. CertificatesCoMege-of Industries' E. J. Jones, Architectural Drafting; E. W. Drensen, J. A. Stark, E. I. Shanor, W. H. South, D. A. Jones,' Automobile' Maintenance and Op.; emtion ; M. F. Spec, Building Estimating; Joseph Bado, Alex., Ewing, W. L. Kelleher, R. F. Platt, A. R. Swartz, Electrical Equipment and! Construction; Miss Anna E.'Han* son, E. V. Johnston, Heating an<^ Ventilating; F. E. 4xey, M.. A." Then, Machine Practice; Andrevt Andreff, P. W. Beck, J. W. BIthei; Tom Buckner, Louis Steiger, Bernard Weinlraub, C. W. Suter, Mechanical Drafting; K. L. Armour, Practical Chemistry; E. J. Hunnel, Geo. Sowash, Arthur Sutcliffe, Printing Layout and Design; Geo, M,. Miller, H. W- Stein, Sheet Metal; J. J. BencWenga, J. G. Magnes, A. P. Nelderj F. J. Trozzi. Structural Drafting.
In addition to the above list of graduates who were In attendance at the dinner there are approximately thirty more candidates for diplomas or certificates.
SQUIRREL HILL 
BABBEE SHOP
5923 FORBES STREET
Phi Nu Calls 
12 Candidates 
to Membership
Initiation, Reunion And 
Election Held At 
Penn Lincoln
The Phi Nu night social fraterni
ty has called twelve members from 
the upper class students or the 
1934-35 term. The candidates, J. 
W. Ackerman, C. A. Blochlnger, C. 
E. Blochlnger, E. C. Carlson, R. A. 
Lahr, \  C. ' :.Mi :Mai'nwnring, iC- F. 
iRoup, c. G. Stevens, H. Wheeler, 
J. M. 'Miller, J. Schurko, and E. P. White were initiated Saturday, May 11, at the Penn Lincoln hotel.These pledges have become bers of the-oldest night organlzalowship and sociability among the classmen, to encourage scholarship Jn school work and activity in school life. The organization ha9 been- Instrumental in securing social privileges and scholastic recognition for the night students.In conjunction with the Initiation .a reunion and business meetiog was held. The reunion brought out a very representative group of old tlmere and also telegrams from those who were unab.le to attend. It. was inspiring to see and hear from those men who were the founders of this organization in (he year 1916.After the initiation an election of ofliicers was held, at which time the following members were elected to office: Carl SchlosnagleChancellor, Walter . NolgoChamberlain. Otto EhlersHerald, Hu* bert KrebsRegent. These men will sereve for a term of 3e3 year.During the course of the dinner, the members were entertained by vocal solos rendered by Arthur Luck and orchestrations presented by the Phi Nu band under the dl-:tlon of A1 Cox. The event was one of the most colorful ever held by this fraternity;
Insignias to Be 
Awarded in June
Number of Awards Expected 
To Exceed^ .Last Years
Although definite plans have not 
yet been made, the night student 
Council insignia award dinner will 
be held sometime during the eariy 
-part of next month. This dinner is 
given by the Council in honor of 
those who aided in the presentation 
of the various student activities 
during the past school year.
At this time the Insignia awards 
will be made. The awards are 
.made onv.a. point baals and all atu- dents, registered in'the" night col-" leges and have paid the activities fee, are eligible provided they earn fe sufficient number of points. Tho number of Dolnts required is within reason and may be earned by either working at the various student social functions, selling tickets for the student Council dances or contributing news items for, publication in DCi Plaid.'
The first inslgnlas were awarded In 1925. Since then the number of awards have steadily increased. ! Last year forty-eight student and two honorary awards were made. The'honorary awards were mode to- ;Dean Green and Dean Tarbell. From all Indications the number of awards to be made this year .will exceed those made In pest years.At the present time three lyes of Insignlas are being ueed, dependWANTED
A young man of courage
who can accompany and lend 
financial aid to an expedi
tion wherein wealth, fame, 
travel, and adventure are ab
solutely assured.
Apply Tartan Office
-------------4BAG0N r
GLEN GRAY
and his
Casa Loma Orchestra
May 24th
MOTOR SQUARE ARDEN
Tickets at Motor Square, Childs or Aides
Drama Students 
Present Plays
One-act and three-act plays will 
be presented by the .Drama students 
on Wednesday and Thursday eve
nings, May 22 and 23, of this week. 
The plays will be glven^at the Car
negie Union. Beglnning-at 7:30 p. 
m., the first group, under the direc
tion of Miss Dice, will prsent two 
one-act plays The Sole Legite 
and Square Pegs," and a three-act 
play The Flattering Word.
At 9:30 p. m. the second group 
under the direction of Chester Wal
lace will give two plays 'Land of 
My Hearts Desire and Dust In 
My rEyes.'' "There'' are no- admission tickets required. These plays will bring to a close the presented tions of the night group for the present term.
The night Drama students have been giving plays, at the Union, regularly during the present tern', and they hve been well received'.
Special Rates Offered 
By Alumni Federation
Letters regarding the membf 
ship campaign being canled oo h; 
the .Alumni. Federation have be* 
sent yon, and-W'wish !p especial 
call your attention to the article 
appearing elsewhere In this week[ 
issue of the Tartan, giving detail, 
ed information about alumni mem. 
bership. ..
The special dues of one dolur 
and fifty cents being offered iw graduates will continue until jUl]l 11, when the regular three dolt! rate will again be in effect.
We also wish to. ezteod an i tatlon to the members of the c.u to the Informal dance In honor'oi the,graduating., class.,, to be gby, by the Alumni Federation on day evening, May 31, In Thlgi|P ball from 9 to 1. Tickets for tble donee may be' obtained at the AlumNOTICE!
ENGINEERING SENIORS
H
E fie is an excellent field of oppcriunlty, for positions, 
that 1$ seldom called to your attention. Executives 
of National engineering firms want young men engineer* 
Ing graduates for their secretaries. Good beginning sal
aries and excellent opportunities for advancement Into an 
executive career.
The field is.never crowded because few engineers take up 
the work and those who do invariably advance into' exec
utive positions. Many present day executives of engineer
ing firms began as secretaries.
The Business Training College offers a 3 Months Inten
sive Gregg Secretarial'Course to college people that will 
quickly and thoroughly prepare you for one of these opportunities.
. SeveTahEngineers Have Taken 
This Course to a Better Opportunity!
INVESTIGATE THIS COURSE NOWI
Summer classes starting June 17, July 1, and JUly IB. but personal Interviews should be arranged Now because classes are limited to small groups of the best
The Business Training College
207 Fifth Ave.
I*; sometimes asked about 
cigarettes . . . aud / beiieve they offer 
the mildest and purest form in which 
tobacco is used . ..
Mild Ripe Tobacco...
Aged 2 years or more...
the farmer who grows ehe 
tobacco ...
the ivarchfoMmun who sells 
it t auction to the bights 
bidder . . .
T-every ttian THho knows about 
lf totaccowill t.ll you that 
it takes mild, ripe tobacco to 
make a good cigarette; and this 
is the kind we buy tor CHEST
ERFIELD Cigarettes. '
All of the toh icco used in 
CHESTERFIELD Cigarettes is 
aged forv two jejrs or more. 
IlGGE,&&'fyfYERS Tobacco Co.
.Chesterfield is the cigarette thats MitDER 
Chesterfield is the cigarette that .vl.1l s1..1F
-p IM), T WCTTT Mmt Tomqcq Cq, '
