den must be at liberty to 
eay >n print whatever they 
have in mind to eay, pro
vided it wrongs no one.
CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 30. NO. 6CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 193S
Col. Charles Furlong 
GivesTalk on Ethiopia
In Today's Assembly
leaks from Experience 
As Artist, Writer 
And Explorer
SPEAKER WORLDS 
CHAMP BULL-RIDER
Music Will Be Furnished 
By Instrumental Trio; 
Plebes Must Attend
General Assembly will be held 
iay ai 11:30 in Carnegie Music 
ill. Colonel Charles Wellington 
Furlong, world-famous explorer, 
3/1 Illustrated talk on 
Ethiopia. Music will be furnished 
instrumental, trio composed 
i Marie Grentzer 36, Annete 
Roseoson 36, and Louise Wingold 
5.Lived With .Pygmies - 
Colonel Furlong is an prtis't, writ* 
, and lecturer, as well aa an ex
plorer. As an explorer li was the 
CH through 
Tierra del Fuego, and the first 
live with the Pygmies 
AR Ihe llurf forest, Congo. It was he 
who found the laet survivor of the 
Livingstone expedition and the East African relics of Stanley. In War did work as an explorer relating to the use of West African Islands and in Spanish zone control in Morocco by Gei submarines, and as war cc pondent he brought out the first that Morocco had declared war against Germany.
Wrote "Let er Buck" 
i a writer he has attracted 1 deal of attention by the dl- ity of his works, these including "Let er Buck, a.story ot the ild WeeL
In dealing with the .career ot Col. Furlong, the reviewer . Is faced with necessity of leaving out so many details that might well be included It space permitted, for the life adventures and'achievements o( this talented man would requli instead.,or.DaraeranliaUt-.atA templed to deal adequately with" recording.
Attendance is compulsory for all Ircahmen men and women. They 111 assemble promptly
$2300 Pledged 
In Community 
Fund Drive
R. Denoison, R. Connell, 
J. Latta Lead Group 
In Solicitations
PLEDGES ACCEPTED 
IN M. C. . OFFICE
has been the Com- Carnegie
be assembly will begfn promptly 111:30. Colonel Furlong will be- in his talk at 11:45 and finish at 2:15 so that those who have 12:30 lasses may get to them on time.
These assemblies are sponsored i Student Council each month, heir purpose Is to broaden the enls education. Outstanding i
Prof. Beattie 
Writes Book
jays John Arbuthnot* 
Is Dry as Dust
frof. L. M. Beattie, Department English, is the author of a book, John Arbuthnot, recently IssuedI Nut Harvard Press. The main ofpose of the hook is to give a wlcai estimate of Arbuthuots Wings, rt is not a. biography' in * ordinary sense of the word,II it might be called a "critical Sraphy."
John.Arbuthnot, originator of the l!eorj.cal figure, John Bull, was >rn In 1667 in Scotland, but spent D! of his life in London. He was Vsician to Queen Anne, a meni- jf of the Royal Society, and. train* JJn mathematics as well as in Heine. This "brilliant, witty 04 ''Iglt-minded man wrote much lie published.: It is said wi he allowed his children to kites of his manuscripts. Hfe ,ed 'n i?35.
When asked for his opinion of 3 own hook, Prof.Beattie; remark* - In fact the whole book, ceI>i for Arbuthnot quotations, mostly dry as dust, and should ' avoided by conscientious CarfeJe students. I dont want them ^te ponderously. And they .of__joy .-aroma
. fuzzy phrase."
foy Hold Peace 
Assembly Friday
J*U mmute plans are being nuiLted to observe Armistice J -ith a student assembly No- % 8, at li;3(k"v"'"" Ik#*- l'rBram is tentative and'  J^ace of meeting., not. yet nii3 he announced on. the boards.: 
> definitely- planned to ob- a period of silence m com- ^ation of the men who died in ... wsr. There has beeni s. Pc.lal. action on the. part .of 
airs''' nt Council or. the Admln- regarding .thft ment.tn?
Wwlfoc950 the
V .
Approximately $2,30i subscribed up to date' munity Fund' drive Tech. The followingpwtments lead In _______
pledge: -Freshman group IV, worker Richard Connell '39; Works Management, worker Jame9 Lat- ta 36; Physics, worker Richard Dennison 36.
All pledge cards have tributed to workers and thle drive will continue until they have been accounted for or returned. Students who. have not been contacted by workers are urged to go t Christian Association office make their pledges.An inspirational talk was : by Frank J. Chesterman, vice ident and General Manager of the Pittsburgh Bell Telephone at the Becond report meeting last Thursday. He potntod out tne fact that if students would gh for each of the 82 agencies represented in the Fund, our quota of $6,000 would be reached and passed. Mr. Chesterman is just one of the many prominent Pittsburghers who are devoting a great deal of valuable time and hard work to the Fund and the fact that Tech has almost reached the half* way mark should be heartening to him and to his fellow-workers.The Pittsburgh Community Fund drive officially ; begins Thursday, November 7. By that time It hoped that Carnegie Tcch will hai responded to the honor . accorded her faculty and students by reaching her quota and establishing gotflr'" fof " other Organizations to shoot at.
Nobel Prize 
Winner to Talk 
In Union Friday
Mar von Laue, Professor of Theo
retical Physics at the University 
of Berlin will give a public lecture 
In the Student Union Friday eve
ning at 8:30. He will speak on 
Thermo-dynamic Fluctuations.1'
Professor. Laue won the Noble 
Prize In PhysicH for 1916 for his 
work with X-rays. By using a cry6- 
il for the diffraction of the rays, 
he proved that x-rays are electro
magnetic waves like light or radio, 
cept that their length is very 
much smaller.
This is the third in his aerl< 
lectures in this country. He has 
spoken at Princeton and Johns Hop* 
kins University in Baltimore. He 
plans'to_ return to Germany on No
vember 21.
His lecture here was arranged by 
Prof. Otto Stern, Director of the He* 
;li Labatory in Molecular Phys
ics. <
Parking Offenders 
Tagged By Police
Students who continue to park their automobiles In the No Parking areas on the campus will face the probability of finding themselves owners of a ticket when they return.
. Parking iu the restricted areas has been going on to 6Uch an extent that, on Inst Friday,* the
had their _
will attest to the fact that e___thing was done, ,In explaining the position of the administration, Mr. Orbin, business manager of Carnegie
and also insurani quire that such parking around 
public building:
trance that it has been impossible for the mail truck to get in. It Is not our wish to see the students have to pay fines, but when they completely ignore the No Parking signs there is nothing for us to do but call in the city police.
What Our Country Needs 
Is Diplomatic Preparedness
Economics Professor Believes Too Much Stress 
Placed.on Naval, Military Strength, Not Enough 
On Manpower of (Diplomatic Staff
Local Groups 
Hold Christian
Assoc. Meeting
Dr. Evans, Dr. Clausen 
Speak at Slippery 
Rock, Nov. 8.-9
Student and faculty men of the liristian Association of this ill meet on Friday and Saturday. November S and 9, at a confer Slate Teachers' college In
3 asked to make reservations
'ill be the theme of the conference. On both days devotional exercises will open the meetings. Friday's program Includes an address-' by Dn7H:r-Ii Sfvanii*Tiai-1tc ;or of the Third Presyteriain :hureh of Pittsburgh, on the subject or Christ and YouthWanted Master."! At the Saturday morn ing session Dr. Bernard Clausen,
day ewill address the men on the subject of Christ and Our World.'
In addition to the addresses, ere will be a meeting-on Friday of the State Student council members, and on Saturday morning group discussions of vital present day questions. These questions oncern Home BuildingLove nd Marriage, "Campus Life and God, and World QuestionsWav, , and Brotherhood. After - Leo H. Kohl, state student ary, will conduct an open forum on YMCA camp-work. A football game, tickets to which may be obtained at registration headquarters In the College Y Hut; is,
occupy the chair. ' Dr. E. G. Salisbury, W. W. Mendenhall, and Dr. John Coleman, will lead the discussion groups. ;
By Dr. Samuel Ross 
Admiral Standley, chief of naval operations, has recently advised greater military preparedness. The memory of the last war is a little dim, but we shall always r ber the main features of oui bellum prepardeness program airals urged it upon us. - 
They did not explain why w$ 
needed preparafend ourselves from Invasions by any enemy Dr. RosB operation from a base 3,000 mileB distant.Finally we did get into the war. There was no difficulty about procuring an invitation. That is just the danger in preparedness.Indeed the importance or drawing us into the war as an ally outweighed In importance the battle of the Somme, Ypres. and Verdun combined. As It was a handful ot Allied diplomats sitting safely at
proud of their bargains. when the deal was finally consummated.' They were also proud of their power, for when Wilson came , to the White House they had been obscure and inexperienced in such transactions.Colonel House was a Bphinx like, character without a mystery, from the plains of Texas; Mr. Herrick,
kindly .honest, man (rom the farmlands of Ohio. These, with Mr.bassador to England,: diplomatic phalanx
Page,
(Constituted'In Europo.
Through s presidential saiictlon .they rse to a position where their counsel od actions were' decisive jn directing our armed forces and t>\cnty-five billlon doUavs. against
lies.i favor otthe AliThe sudden rl6e to power of a Hitler, or a Mussolini may startle us, but is there, anything less slkrtling about the way in which our unprepared diplomats rise to power and wield our highly prepared military tnachine?^-Billions for guns, but only a bagatelle to provide the diplomats who shall decide in   - - to .fire them; this i al- American policy.
N It would be an Inspiration to h,ear of CLE admiral or a general .advising diplomatic preparedness.
mat who- writes home-that ^'European statesman like Sir Edward Prey has opened his heart nnd told hfm the whole truth could have eerved his country better li Texas, where men are not diplo:Wall Street was to declai Germany, could have been helpful in meeting the national
Tech Students 
May Attend 
S. P. E. E. Meet
Carnegie Acts as Host 
To Scientists Visiting 
Over Weekend '
TWO DAY PROGRAM 
HAS BEEN PLANNED
market operator.idebtAny American corporation whose 'purchasing agents brought home [such a bargain as did these gentle- would have overhauled its methods of selecting personnel fifteen years ago. .In American government;' however, diplomatic iiinpreparedness and military pre- foaredneBS still go hand In hand.
First Seminar 
Meeting Held 
In M.M. Today
Improvement in Exhibition 
Seen By Carnegie Graduate
Alfred G. Pelikan *19, Director of Milwaukee Art 
Institute, Ses International as Standard for All 
Contemporary Art in This Country
By Jane Mason 
'If anything, the Carnegie Ex
hibit ot International Painting is 
better this year than It lias been in 
the past years," announced Alfred 
G. Pellk&n, graduate of Carnegie 
College of Fine Arts in 1919, and' 
Director of the Milwaukee Art 
..TnaMute,- Hr.;.PeUkan.. .said.. that the International Exhibit is a standard for contemporary, art all the country. ' Said he, This summer I visited the International Exhibit in Brussels: it cannot compare with the one In Pittsburgh. *.ry art institute would be roud display, the paintings that are found in the Carnegie- International, Exhibit.When asked if he thought that conservatism - in paintingcoming to the fore,PelikaiTanswered. "No. conservatism is not coming* back in' place of the art which has been prevalent Impres-. sloiiism. work .: such as Picasso does, is becoming more popular>ainttcebecoming more - conservative- is that-ther are. getting us.ed to the impressionistic : an: it does not startle them as-it once did. Mr. Pellkan ha* the greatest admiration' for the abstract- arL He likes
the. painting that challenges him.getting away from the
irt. People need
was. His answer was very definite. "The jury of award knew exactly what it was doing...''ides'-ry tiI find something new in it to interest me. It has both compo: sitlon and color. The beauty  of the painting emanates- from, its rhvthmic lines and its color combination which Is lovely with the cool blue of the sofa, and the warm tones of the skin. The picture, at first glance. Is quite obvious In closely, and thut cannot* be the surface. y  Mi1-- Peiikan told us. "This International Exhibit ot 1335. :s a very catholic cr.c; it
thought, but study i jW'tmrfii discerned .<
something to offer to- every taste, but I have this to say. while everyone enjovs what be  understands.
should .but heshould remember to have prefer' and not prejudices."
Speaker from Christian 
Association Board 
Conducts Group
<rs. Grace L. Elliott, member of 
the National Board .of Young WoChristian Associations, will 
conduct the first seminar of the 
rear on the Carnegie Campus 
lay. The discussion will be sponorod by th Mens and W< 
Christian Associations of .the Penn
sylvania College for Women, the 
Slty of Pittsburgh, and 'the 
Carnegie Instltut of' Technology.
'Hindrances'to Creative Personal Living will be, the subject for dlsCollege and continue until <j:00.i served in the Car 30 and will be fol lowed by a discussion on Cond! tlons Necessary for Creative Per- nal Living.
Tickets ' for the seminar the charge for the dinner and may. theChristian Association Office ln; the Administration Building, or from any member of the Christian Association Cabinet.
Mrs. Elliott is making a tour colleges in the Middle Atlantic Region in response to many requests. She Is the author of Understanding the Adolencent Girl, and coauthor of Sex Life of Youth. She Is a well-known lecturer and discussion leader on' the problems of young people, and has visited
What Should One 
Seek in a Painting
Prof. Kostellow Will Explain 
In Discussion Tonight
What An Outsider Should Look in a Painting" is the general theme of the discussion which Professor AJexander, J. Kostellow ot
bv a dinner meeting at 5:30 .the meeting wlU-be over in time for 7:30 classes.. Kostellow has several paintings in the International Art Exhibition and will.mention the Exhibi- In : its - connection -with his
Pi Delta Epsilon 
Makes Donation
nalism fraternity.for- men. has.donated to < the publications on . the campus a year's subscription
jM.M. Rushing 
jSeason Opens 
Pn Thursday
Dance, Tea, Informal 
Affair to Be Given 
By 3 Sororities
Rushing season in Margaret Morrison Carnegie College will be tally opened on Thursday and
Delta, will hold three Ing events, including a tea, a formal dance,' and an 'Informal affair which each sorority will endeavor to make as original and entertaining as possible.
The entire sophomore class has been Invited to an Intersororlty non-rushing tea to be- held tomorrow from 4 to 6 In Recreation- Hall In - Margaret Morrison College.
Doris Dietrich '37, a member of Gamma Phi Sigma sorority is chairman of the Intersororlty Tea. She will be assisted by Claire Frederick 37, Alpha Theta Sigma; CaroSisma;- Ruth Nichols 37, Kappa Phi Delta; - Jeannette Paul 37, Kappa Phi Delta; and Helen Stulen Gamma Phi Sigma.- Virginia Matthews *36; Kappa'Phi Delta, is president of the Margaret Morrison Sorority Council and will assist the ntersorority rushing comiuittee ai
Many Engineering Subjects 
Will 15c Investigated 
By Eminent Men
Any Cftrnegio student mny attend 
the meetings of the Allegheny sec
tion of the Society for the Promoon of Engineering Education 
hlch will be held In Pittsburgh 
this Friday and Saturday. Cnrnegle wJl] act as host to the visiting 
scientists and engineers.
The general topic of the various 
esslqns will be: To What Extent
short, business meeting, ' the mainder ot the afternoon- will be devoted to a discussion ot the The Work of the Engineers CounRuss Lyon Scheduled 
For Annual Military 
Ball Friday Evening
BALL MAESTftO
phone and Telegraph Compnny; ProfOBBor R. L. Snckett, dean of the College of Engineering at Penn State; Professor W. W. Hodgo ot West. Virginia university; and Dr W. E..WIckenden(| president of tho School of . Applied Science.
ests of the various branches.of glneerlng. They will consist chiefly, of an exchange of teaching periences and! Ideas between the representatives of the - different
The discussion In the Electrical Engineering and Physics group will center about Electronics, Professor R. T. Gabler, Department of. I|lectrlca_r;Engineering, ..tylll be uilwVoT'th5linraftOT8r'-Tr'.7." vi- Mr. J.- G, Baker of the WustlnK- house (Research Laboratories will present an illustrated Icctnre on Vibration Theory to the M.ichan- leal Engineering section, demon* ra'ing a number .rtf the roodela ied In vibration sturiy at tlie West* inghouse laboratory. Professor W. L. Trinks. hea<* of the, Depart- t*nt of Mechanical Engineering
neering division, professor Max M. Frocht, Department of Mechanics, III present a' paper on Photoeli, of the Department of Civil Engineering, will also partlcl- ite In the discussion In this group. The Commercial and Industrial Engineering section will hear a padents. Professor John W. Hobe or Carnegie will serve as chairman or this group.Following the departmental
The two-day session wltl .be brought
series to be held annually aud in rotation at each ot the-par- tlcipatlng schools,
Honorary Cadet Officers 
Beceive Commissione 
During Dance
DECORATIONS SHOW 
MILITARISTIC SPIRIT
Scabbard and Blade Pledgee 
"Will Be Called; Uniqne> 
Favor6 Promised
Russ Lyon, who brings his N. B. c. band out from the Lotus! Gardens In Cleveland to play the Military Ball.
Unknown Man 
E nters Six 
Fraternities
Tech Graduate Critically 
Hurt iti Army Plane Crash
Senior Aeronautical Students See Smokirg Remains 
Of Huge Boeing Transport in Which Donald 
L. Putt 928 Was Injured at Wright Field
Thirteen Senior Aeronautical stu
dents viewed the smoking remains 
giant four-motored Boeing 
bombing plane at Wilbur Wright 
Field last Wednesdaynot know
ing that but a short time before a 
Carnegie Tocli graduate had been 
dragged from the burning wreck in 
a critical conwith four other
1
died
The Tec.fi graduate is First Lieuten? ant Donald L.' Putt 28. He is confined In the Miami, V-a.ley Hospital, !Day: ton. Ohio, where bis condition isPutt said to .bfc im-.
Tech, He was.prelldent of Stu: dent >Council.: a-Druid and a Dra* member of -Scabbard bnd Blade. Eta Kappa. Nu. Tau Beta Pi.Theta Tau. He belonged to Slgm^:Alpha Epsilon social-fraterof the U. 5. Army station at Brooks Field, San Antonio, Texas. He was transferred to Wright Field in 1934 from Selfrldge Field, Mount Clemens, Michigan.The Senior Aeronautical grdup ws making a three-day inspection tour-under' the guidance of Mr. George B. Thorpe. They left Tuesday and -Tfctanv&d -Thtsrstfay -arss' ing. After spending Tuesday night quartered .in the Army barracks at Patterson Field, near Dayton. the seniors inspected-the'servicing shops at the field. Wednesday afternoon was spent-at Wright Field viewing government Iabora* torles. In. ..which each t>art of an armv aeroplane Is tested:. Concerning the- trip Mr. Thorpe
opportunity to ..observe  at. first hand -various experimental- - and manufacturing processes. Contacts
should prove of considerable assistance in securing employment for the etudente upon graduation.- '- -The students , also >-thought, the trip interesting. accordlng to Phll- lip Bright -r36. who said. "We all considered-, the. trip- extremely sue* cessful and worthwhile. - .
Lifts $200 as Members 
Sleep; No Jewelry 
Or Change Taken
More than .$200 was taken from 
six fraternity houses in a. eerie? of 
robberies laBt Thursday -night. 
Delta Tau Delta lod the list with 
a loss of $65. Losses fanglng from 
to $40. wore sustained by five 
other fraternity houses. Kappa Sig
ma, Beta sigma; Rho, Alpha Tau 
OmegQ, Theta Xl, and Sigma Nu, Estimates place - the - time of the .r93&enLrbet5epAi=tjy.elife:^d_|fiUJv 'o'clock' Friday morning. . Police were called in on the case by several fraternities during, the day Friday, but no definite leads could be uncovered. Many of ihe in the houses Involved were of the opinion that the robbery had been committed by ah'outsider who thoroughly^ familiar with bouses, such as delivery boy.Early Investigation showed that In the majority of cases only bills taken. Small-change and jewelry was left unmolested. On several pccaslons blll-folders were replaced'IR the boys pockets after the money had been removed.At the Beta Sigma Rho house the >bber, or a portion of him, wi >rled to have been. seen, boy, who wna still atndylng at heard a noise, looked around, and saw a gloved hand reaching around the door. Upon being asked who he was,-the fellow In'questiob ed and ran. The Beta Sig then picked up a T-square, ran upstairs, and awakened the rest of the brothers. An ensuing search of tho house, however, revealed nothing except that a robbery had i been'
Senior Plans 
Prize Dairy
M, Leavitt Wins $50 
In Private Contest
Morton Leavitt 36, Department of Architecture, was awarded first prize of $G0.00 in a privately sponsored contest, for hie design of a two story dairy plant with a salesroom.- John Grove '37. was awarded second prize of $10.00.C. J. Schuemacker, Youngstown architect, Bponsored the- contcst In hich fifteen Carnegie students irticipated.The jury, in making nnd deciding poii awards, held to the following points of consideration: refinement, dignity, vertical lines, and importance of salesroom.Mr. Leavitt, first prize winner, also won first prize in the Arts
Illuminating Prl2e. problem. Ho 1
Wllh Rubs Lyon, and bis N. 3V C. Orohostra furnlBhlng the muslo, the 193G Military Ball promises lo boone'of tho most colorful bffalrs of tho Cc\vnQgle,,80clrvl<Beti6on. .Fh ball will get undof way' ct 10:00 Friday night, nt Thistle .hall. - \ JIiirs l*yon's orchestra has .been' : called tho nowest music sensati6n In the Middle West. Russ nnft-hls twelve artists havo scored as thjr most recent triumphs, outstanding
Cleveland, and the Orlol Ternico In Detroitachievements which provo this orchestra one . of the best.'' nnd. its dlroctor, Russ Lyoti, one of the name maestros of-Wo . air.Said Norm Slegnl, radio editor of v tho Cleveland Press:. S.DN Lyon / haB the voice:of-Rudy Valleo plus, better looks and moreiBorepiinllty, - nnd by far the; host dance bantl. Jn town.11 Hie Inst engngoment wys ' at the Oriole Terraco in Detroit.Last year this orchestrn played for th Pitt Senior ..Prom and, w^fc . ncclnlmed by Dean Slebol as the best band to play at Pitt during tho .year.
Militaristic Dcorations 
bas beoii the' custom at past - Mllltnvy Balls,; - the decpratlone; will b'f'n militnrlstic'mtuire.'Co). . Goorgo E. A. Fnlrley Is in charge of' the decorating. Baforo contint; - t Pittsburgh. Col. Fairley fiorvfirt soveral verira on the docora tlon commlttne for the Ball- lifts Arts given by the Cbarconl club of Baltimore. - .Flags of sixteen foreign corn*- . tries will be; hung on tho walls or 
Thistle hall, as /wlll - fcnnflqort^
Ice. In tho corners of (he fcnll there will be messed <groiinB:.f American flags. Ferns will be>uee4- to block off the bottom of the bandstand and to back-up the receiving line. A number of regular- army posters will be displayod in ; tho lobby of the hall to give a, military atmosphere to the place..
Improved Lighting 
Tho lighting this year will hff. ...ore fitting than thaVat-past..MI1- : Itary Balls.^A concealc4 flood, light will throw a strong .light over-the
decorations . enclv ' year,  An  at,-  tempt Is made to have the decora-:, tlons of a rich, dignified appear- i, without any show of cheats >
in order. Tickets'at $3.00-per co\* - may : be. . purchaaod. at  the  Christian Association- office, the- Military Department; or from-any.-: member.or pledge of Scabbard .and .: Blade. The mimber of be sold In limited, and so it is. siig- Best.e.d. that those wishing to buy .. tlckots do so at once.
Will Present Favors . i. . 
an effort to further improve : the alTnir. the.committee announces
iilLbe
Hut Adds New Books 
To Colleclionof23,000
'Among-the many new books add,* i-ffl the Hut recently are the ten listed here: "Road to War- by Wal- ; Medioval Carvei- Anderson:.. "Hutory of Western Civilizations^ volumes. 1 and 2: "The Mind- and Society volumes a. 4 by Alfredo Pareto: -Counterfeit- -'by Arthur  Kaliet: Architecture for: the New Thea- :er-: by E. R.; Isaacs: "Plan or No Plan-*; by Barbara Wootton: Executive Guidance- ot Industrial Relations" . by .C- C. -Balderson: True Ballad' of. -the Galloping Iearse< by W. H. Day Sncyclopedla. of the ences. Volumes 12. 13.
for the first time 1 Military Ball hlBtory-favors-.-i presented.
A feature of the bull Will lie the presentation of commissions to.the -. Honorary Cadet officers :n an impressive ceremony. Honorary Ca-  det Colonel Mary Wettach will ; lead the grand -march,- along with Cadet Colonel Jack E. McKee. In another ' ceremony the pledges to ; Scabbard and Blade, military ,hcnr;- orary will be called.Jack E. McKee 36 is the general. Chairman 1n  charge of. arrange^.-r ments. Committee chairmen.are;, r publicity and tickets, ' Howard Means 36;  orchestra and1 pro?. " grams, William Holliday .3fl:. and r decorations, Francis Abrino i. -
Cwens to Give 
Dinner Thursday 
For Pitt Chapter
Carnegie Tech Cwens will act.ae^; hostesses'at a dinner,to be held in hetior of the Pitt Cwens on ThUTSr-- day  evening .in the- reception-; hall .,', of Margaret . - Morrison.: ...DeaUi Thvrsa W. Amo9 of Pitt., tlie found->-v.
of honor. Friendly feeling will be the themei of the evening andr a ^ plan has been devlsed iby^whichc each visiting Cwen. will become-a^. quainted with nih i ini fl** < * n A novel program has .Arranj ed tor the dinner Tne Cwei
istic, red and gray.
_______________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Pabllebcd weekly darin? the colle* yeer by the aatea^ orCtm^lniitltato of^ TcchnoloiT. Ente
llson Am. New York City de FranciscoLos AnselPortland
rSr'&i'SS
Sporti Editor--------------------------------Features Editor_________ ___________Assignment BdHor------------------------Era
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Robert P. Greiner. PHOTOGRAPHIC EDITOR: J nine 8 M. Lotts. EXCHANGES: Roacmnry B. PIcroo.CIRCULATION MANAGER! A. L. Guiahe.nmustbmba lirr yo> Schfcjcr. ^ ___..STAFF ARTISTA? C. Suo Fuller, Robert Robison. 
JUNIOR EpiTO.RS^ Louis Bnldy^ AJpha ^Wack. ^U 
ScbrcibleB,Albert Schwarti,Syrnc, Toby '
Plebes Defy Upperclassmen 
To Enforce Regulations
I
P A.MODERN Mother Goose were writing 
fainy.italss shed.probably include one about 
! what.happened to the bad, bad freshmen who 
'didnt wear their regulations and how the big, 
bold sophomores got the bad, bad freshmen 
and paddled them all the way home. Such a 
istory wouldn't have much of a sale at Tech 
because there aren't any big, bold sophomores. 
/. it isn't the freshmens fault. They are try
ing their best to be bud by plastering their 
year all over the college. They even have one 
scrawled across the placard beneath the paint
ing in upper Administration Hall. Great stuff! 
They continually .dare the .sophomores to try 
rantHig'bt the response doesnt come'. May
s'be if it got to the attention of those strong, 
silent fellows who wear the dirty white hats, 
all would be different. For they are the lead. :ing lights of the sophomore class. They 
wouldn't.stand for such things! It isn|t their 
fault that Carnegie Tech is about the only col
lege which doesnt have a Freshmen-Sophomore battle royal 1 They would like the freshmen .to carry out regulations but then, these 
 freshmen are so trying!
Regulations, as they exist now on the cam
pus, ar a farce. Freshnen dont bother to 
war any part of their required costume. And 
nobody, least of all the sophomores, seems to 
give a damn !
Get That Welfare^.. - 
Contribution In No w!
TpHIS WEEK the welfare drive on the 
i JLieaitopus''9hould end. For the past several 
-.weeks students have beii asked to contribute 
something do that the welfare . organization 
v-may successfully carry on its very worthwhile 
and: necessary work during the coming year. 
Certainly little need be said of the urgent need 
A of a generous contribution from, every student 
attdinstruetor...
 One of the regrettable features of the current 
/drive is the lack of enthusiasm among the ma: 'jority of the section canvassers. They were 
willing enough to assume responsibility,.but for 
: some reason they hesitate to approach class: mites'for contributions. There are, still many 
students who have not been approached. It is 
not too late for solicitors to make a final check:up; Everyone should be proud to wear a con
tributors feather.
'i1 .! any student has not been solicited, he may 
make his. contribution at the Christian Asso:?;iatibff ;bflfce.r The fortunate. sivooid help"the 
unfortunate.
Fraternities Must 
Take Precautions 
S
IX FRATERNITY houses.were robbed last 
' week of more than $200 and great the hue 
and cry that followed when the thefts were 
:discovered. Strangely enough, those who clam
ored the loudest were the ones blaming pool 
police protection for their loss. Only a mo. . mcnts thought is necessary to show that to all 
.practical purposes the police are helpless to 
prevent such things from occurring. Roughly,
' 'there, are fifteen fraternity houses close to the 
Carnegie campus. To have each of these houses 
patroled every night would entaiL an expense 
to the city out of proportion to its justification.
 Fratermtv houses are under the same classifi
cation as private homes aud certainly deserve 
:: no more protection than the ordinary home* 
''owner receives. Whv then, docs the solution 
- lie m increased police protection!
: .- It has been in the. past and will be in the fuw-'ture the responsibility- of the fraternity houses 
v to'protect themselves. Carelessness makes easy 
/the burglars job.. Houses.left open all night, 
tnoney and valuables.atrewn around on desk 
top , fulfill the creed of easy picking 
? tOne mans.reaction demonstrates tlie point 
effectively Why, I left my wallet on the 
desk last night and m the morning it was 
thptyI Obviously it is up to the fratemit 
i;::men to. take necessary precautions. Such pre
cautions as these are elementary and cs ential. 
It is better to take them now than delay and 
through bitter experience.
The Department of Drama, opened its season with a flourish last Tuesday evening with the very -ambitious presentation of Shakespeares 'Anthony and Cleopatra In Its entirety. "Infinite variety/ the epithet that Shakespeare uses1 so aptly to characterize Cleopatra may be applied equally-well to his play. We have everything from broad farces to high tragedy In a series jot scenes which require three hours to present.
There Is difference ot opinion as to the merits of this history-tragedy in comparison with Shakespeares other dramas.  Some maintain that it Is his finest play, because of the sustained beauty of Its language, the depth and dignity of its characterizations, and its high tone of tragedy. Others assert that .lt is not even one of his best, because'It Is loosely constructed, uneven .in .Interest, and more like a pageant than a play. At any rate, it la rarely
Its production here is.an achievement of which the Department of Drama can be just proud, for it presents unusual technical as well as dramatic difficulties.. There are over forty scenes In Iheplay, over thirty epeaking.cberacters, and almost as many more supers;, but In spit of Its unwieldiness, the play preserves a certain dignity, .a design, and unity of effect, which preyent it from becoming mere spec-.
of duty as a ruler of one-third of the Reman Empire, and his intense passion .for the Egyptian sireu In whose kingdom he lingers. Aning which we are led to believe were his. As heroine, Cleopatra Is both solllshly coquettish, and deeply emotional, and yet thoroughly belleveabie. Mary Bowles wnsa powerful, fascinating, and emotheir
Of the many lesser characters Enobarbus, Joseph Batcheller, the friendly but caustic observer, achieves most Individuality; although many of the others are represented with clarity in a brief scene or two. Particularly-good in such bits were Menas, Thomas Koehler, In Ills conversation with Enobarbus; Lepidus, Carl, Dozer, in the drunken brawlon- the ship; the Egyptian slave. Malcolm Milligan, who brings Cleopatra the news of Anthonys marriage; Eros, George Lloyd, just before he kills himself; and the Clown, Brinton Turkle, who brings the asp to Cleopatra. - Caesar, Ralph Nason, was somewhat unconvincing and stiff, lacking the 'air of easy command that should be his.
Director B. Iden Payne, well-known for his adherence to Elizabethan tradition as far as is possible on the modern stage, has done so once more in this play. As an historical presentation this production Is remarkably successful; as a dramatic presentation for the modern stage. It would benefit by a little judicious cutting. Audiences not reared in the Elizabethan tradition are liable to bccome just a bit impatient with' a series of confusing battles and marches..EMILY KRAMER.
pie living In Alabama apart from the rest of our civilized country. The differences of these -mountaineers are  especially evident to the stranger. Wlerd witchcraft is practiced: the' people are ruled by sorcery and superstition.. Of the most powerful of these witches are the conjure women.
One >s reared to be a conjure woman. The training a';t<i-..EUuals for their profession,', if it ia sucli, begin at'the early age ot seven. At'that . time very solemn ceremonies are'begun. On the first night of May, seven candles' must be burned all night long. This, is continued for seven'successive May nights,.-and every ;May' for seven  years. Since we have already passed the mystic age at which to begin these, practices, we will :onsult the conjure women for our prob-Aleo,> protect you till you s and (suit one of these sorcerers, I will give you s spells you might need; . These are from the Seven -Slstere Manual ot, Voodoo-Conjuring."To keep.your boyor girl-friend from flirting, take a persimmon sprout about six inches long and bury it under the doorstep while the flirting
of .the county, take a Jimb from, a poplar tree that has been struck by lightning and tie a dog- . wood sprout, to it with a raw thread (thread from feed sack), and measure your rival's track's
Even after the rival has gone, theres another .spell you'can cast on your sweetie to-insure his omlng regularly to "spark." Spill one drop of
keep him coming.Should you get a new rival you can change your tactics and cause this one to have bad luck.* Just' take the discarded sktn of a snake, mix it with pepper and bury it where he will have to walk over it, and it will bring him whatever
that of May waten and John the Conqueror root. May. water Is the first water caught ofT the roof from the first rain in May. (You can purchase thi6 marvelous water from Seven Sisters at a dollar a gallon.) Mixed with John the' Conquer- ot root, it makes you successful in business and lucky at gambling. Drinking it will. make a gambling hand. (Seven Sisters made a gambling hand for a man. one-night. He was charged
rieht off a store-counter!For the benefit of those who skin toads for some 'tcaehsjri -r-w!-gtve-the-cure- ByGe nwarts. .. Tie as many knots in a cotton string- j and then suspend this string
. and. wash the warts awav. '.Now. so our rheumatic professors will not feel left out. here's the cure for vmiserv m-de-back//
have.' babys HI stop giving ^i carry a list-around .to keep vou out/of
- rub -rabbit brains. '' still : wan ums-to make him teethe.easily. -i the superstltlons-or-voulltrouble.' :If :you have-problems-which do : have remedies'listed here. all you have to do la  save- money, for train fare' and visit a conjure woman in Alabama./:The trouble-Seven Sisters ' cant cure haB: not yet:been-:lnvented.
ELISABETH LEAMANNews Review of Current 
Events the World Over
President Raps Tugwell for Budget PredictionWPA 
Job Program Moves Rapidly-Tarmers Indorse 
Corn-Hog Control for 1936.
By EDWARD W. PICKARD
tiersecretary of agriculture and 
once considered head man of .the bruin trust, made a speech at
I
 Los Angeles the 
other day that 
called forth a 
sharp rebuke, fron)President Boose- Addressing. a 
Democratic gath
ering, Tugwell as^ 
serted that the ad" ministration could
satisfy every humanitarian demand 
and still balance R. Q. Tugwell the bU(jget \a 193$, 
Mr. Roosevelt, lb a press con
ference, scolded the newspapers for
rimiliwhatiied
stories" aad^vent on to declare that 
Tugwells assertion was almost ns 
unfounded as' the predictions 
thrfrwn out by many political observers that the budget probably 
would never be balanced again. 
Tugwells statement wasn't quite 
as 'wild as the newspaper stories, be remarked, because Tugwell 
knew a little more about the budget 
than tbe newspaper men.
The President said, he and bis 
advisers were about to make a 
study of the financial situation, and 
that until the budget is finally 
drafted about tbe first of the year not even he knows what shape It 
will take. Every effort; he said, would be made to hold the regular 
.government departments down to 
the'figures of tlils fiscal year, but he would make no predictions as 
to emergency expenditures. '
J
OBS for 3,500,000 needy persons by November 15, and an end of 
the dole by December 1. That was 
the forecast made by the New Dealers fa Washington, and it appeared 
probable of accomplishment. . Of
ficials said states will receive no direct, relief allotments from the 
government for December and that tho November grunts will be greutly reduced. The employment pro
gram Is a month 
but Israpidly. Every state director of 
the WPA has been given a Jo> goal 
by Administrator Harry L. Hopkins nnd was told by thut gentleman:
Th responsibility for carrying out these objectives, through providing work on approved projects.
As November opened these state': 
administra tors hnd ipl.018.047.ftlf tcj 
spend, and every day- Comptroller 
General McCarl was putting more to tTlr credit tii the feeral tras-1 
ury. Of the s:i,iW0,84a,803 tenta
tively. approved In - WPA project values by President Roosevelt, McCurl hart por-sed $2,4n0.293.80'3. Of. the $1.060,207,8ai definitely al
located-for' WIA- by the president; McCarl had countersigned trousury warrants for nil hut S41.2no.1S2. .?
Greek Notes
The Military Ball, sponsored; by Scabbard, and Blade, tbe military hon'oVary for juniors and seniors.-lS
after the robbery the other night
and Delta. Tau Delta were visited. Tbe -misfortune did not,, however. Interfere with the Theta XI forma)  Sunday, November 3, for the
"rushing" the :ed r   lingiBUt so duu.. ...
Watch out for the A. T.- O.'ei Theyre out for blood and treasure this week. A hunt- Is onfor-the money ' they lost. They promise one hundred per.cent attendance at the Ball regardless of the result of their search, though. The A. T. O.s, along with Kappa Delta Rho are reluming last woeks Penn State visits by .attending, the house parties of their State chapters this week-end. . 
Beta Sigma Rho contemplat.es -a charily hall te swell pWiored coffers.  " - ----
president of the Federated Metals Corporation. ' \
At the William Penn this week, Kay Kaiser is celebrating fraternity week. Each night of the week ls named for a campus fraternity and all'the ladS'turn out; Mondav. Kappa Sic night was honored by the presence ot both Tech and Pitt chaptersoaY6---iuii. Say. didii know that Kav Kaiser is a Sigma Nu? ' -
More dancing at the house of-Pi Kappa Alpha. They arent com peting with' the Military
between .the- PI Ki A. pledges and actives was like-Saturdavs.Notre- Datao --game*-;vplonty---eaertiui Score 14-0 . against the pledge Capt. John Duffy, takes the bow. fcthe actives..The'S.. A. ,E. party that. -
CT. house for tlie brothers.and their; dates after the'Temple game so successful that another, will be held very soon.v The Beta Theta Pi's went to- their  district convention at W. &.J. Sunday. 3rd.
N
EW DEALERS have scored a 
major victory, and are corre
spondingly elated. By a majority of 
something like 10 to 1, tlie com-hog 
producers bare 
voted for a continu
ance of the crop adjustment through 
another year. In
complete : returns, 
from the referendum showed thut the progrum was
jority in every one 
of the 33 states from which votes
It Is only nat
ural that.we should be pleased with 
the apparent approval of adjustment given by com and hog farmers." said Chester C Davis, AAA 
administrator, as he watched tbe re
turns come in at Washington. If 
the final results bear out present Indications another .voluntary contract will be offered for bolb corn 
and hogs.
In a formal statement Davis emphasized earlier asBurances that the 
AAA would seek o 25 to 30 per cent increase In bog production next 
year, saying the "need for lncrens* 
log the present pork supply of the nation . . . will be kept In mind In 
plans for the nest adjustment conBefore the results of the voting 
were known President Roosevelt announced tentative plans for making 
the A'AA over from an emergency to- a. permanent agency.
W
ANG CHINO-WEL, premier of China, and two other officials 
were wounded by as assassin in Nanking. Martini Inw was declared 
there Immediately. The Ilengo 
(Japanese) News agency, crediting 
Chinese sources, said the assassin was a member of ihe central execu
tive committee of tlie Kuomlntang (ruling Chinese party). Chinese 
sources asserted he was a citizen 
of a foreign  power. The Reuter1 (British) News agency reported 
Wangs assailant was a Japanese newspaper man.
JIMMY WALKEft,'former mayor 
of New York, has ended his 
three years of self-imposed exile and returned to the metropolis. 
Tammany Hall, which mude him politically, took no part .In the wel- come acoordcd him, but enough oth
ers Joined In the affair to nil seven 
or eight boats thut met the liner Manhattan at quarantine. These 
Included delegations from the Friars club, the Lamhs dub and tlie
Herbert Hoover, Jefferson Davis, Benjamin franklin,. Hcary Hudson, William Penn, David Livingston and Ben Hur are registered at the University of North-Carollna this year.
HANGOVER
THE ENGINEERS DANCE turned be one of tbe beBt so far Bill LeRoy plus the hob-gobide the boys and girls forget about 'the Duke win . . . Ex- Techer Rog Burke came all the ay from Akron only to find Boots Kissel with Mary . . . The Kappa Phi Dellas turned out in full force led by Bateman, Shultz, Me- Crea, and Schoenberg hauling around Hammond, Knapp, Greiner, and Lehne respectively . . . Add l . . . Van Valkenburg and ex- ipus Queen Madolln . . . Edi- Boutelle and Betty Ralston . Joe Mlhm with Thayer Thompson . . Dick Latta withMaggie Murph freshman prexy Bright ... Polly Rowles with Frank . . and Cap and GownPrendes with Nettle Nugent.
BIGGEST HALLOWEEN EVENT in years . . . six frat houses looted and an earthquake! Wonder if theres any connection. Headlines an inch and a half fi'gh in the papers. Best publicity the eating clubs' have had all year.
ANYONE NOTICE THE unusual
rubbish, garbage, old socks, Kohouts dirty pajamas.
expounding the merits of Delta Shelter to one ot the coveted plebeB . . . and frantically trying to make the bewildered one pronounce the name of tbe Clyde SLreet dorm . . . Beta Charles became very much embarrassed when
THE SIGMA NU BOYS are al home but youll have to call in person . . . someone (of course the boys dont know who) walked in and ripped their telephone from the wajl . . . the phone company wont replace it cause they blame
AH SHAKESPEARE. WHERE IS1 thy scenery? what happened Wed. night when the set wouldnt change fast enough and Cleo and Tony went to town with a modern brickwall a9 a background ......de keed Kennedy wanted to leave Tech cause somebody-laughed '
he killed himself so realistically there was a bit of burlesque In the show too . . the curtainparted only to find the Stage Manager skipping about
Mort's good luck In a co: i. Quotes the prize winner, A Borden the band is worth two in a
THE OHLMAN TWINS In the dcamat dept, have everyone daily . . . 
it's sho nuf double casting.
around his neck.
SQUIRREDLY HILLY BILLY Beta boys valiantly repelled a Hallowe'en assault of "little women" by ibreutening to call the police the police didnt the girls were too young
second floor. Duffy and Tobler threw out flre crackers and oc first floor the chef was telling'the boys to catch the eggs ... it was
SOMETHING NEW SOMETHING different, this time its a g called, manhunt over in the drama dept. . . . "boys, its the nutB.
EVERYONE WAS CHEWING . Doublemint Grolner took the i pus by storm 'Friday with his free gum . . . even some of the profs
A
Choose your bank 
as you would choose 
a friend 
9
MELLCH SfiTiOSAI. 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
NOTORIOUS
ART CINEM
809 Liberty . COurt 230<
Items of clothing.
The Germans act Shakespeare better than anyone else/ in tbe judgment of Prof. Elliot of the English denartment in Amherst.
SciboScoor
FEDERAL EDUCATION BQABn Organization of a Federal jw ment of Education under tho T* vision of a- presidential cahf* member should be the nexi T Cant step forward In the p' educational program, decl Robert M. Hutchins, pre<
Rhode Island.
ralslmAbw il aAihAd 
1hat was the amazement : western university profer 1 he asked his class to wrhc u n-n* 
the "Middle Ages and receiSi e that was a review 
WAVES OF LEARNING 
One hundred students ' l education at sea when USFloating University ler...... York on February 6, on trip in four years. The ilineran eludes Cuba, the Canal Zone Cat! fornla, the Orient, the Near'jVj I and the Mediterranean region. I 
Sight-seeing is.combined wlibt4 ?.a> aili among the 26 eleclh'^l
gatlon,journalism. njJ
and trips, inland, by regular taci% members and guest speakers, coua toward a degree in- American ctf leges and universities.
IN NAME ONLY
Perhaps the most unique Bcbolv ship in America is one offered ft Hamilton College. It is worth jjjj and is open to all men in the Ullej
I WEDNESDAY B FRIDAY B SATURMij
MMg-DNCE
Send Your
30gg0gM
RAILWAY EXPRESS
No.need to harden yourself with the transportation of 
baggage and personal effects at vacation time...eem 
all home by Railway Express.
7H6U?AILWAV H0r*9 the wny...merely telephone Railway Eipws d EXPRESS NEWS weHl call for the ahdpcnenla^Whisk them away aa fastpPARADE Eary aenger trains, swiftly and safely to desdonticn. Yon tabeysel 
felfealng notional home with peace of mudf knowing your baggage willb
wsbi*wob wse home almost as oooa as yon are. Rates surprisingly t( 
receiptsone at each endinsure 6afe handling and d 
but  setp  komo After vacation, wo*ll bring yoor.Mggage back agam,eliafr
Waieh forloeal worry, troable nnd unnecessary e*pnsa.
aaaAunceownii For service or information telephone ' '
Atlantic .3600Pittsburgh, Pa.
EASY WAY TO STAY _
AWAKE IN CLASS
..AND AN EASY WAY 
TO tNJOY A "PIPE
STUDENT ()
FALLS ASLEEP ANO 
SAWS WOOD. 
SAWED BLOCK 
FALLS ON OWL'S 
HEAD(g) MAKING 
EVERYTHING 60 
BLACK FOR THE 
OWL. HE THINKS 
IT IS NIGHT ANO 
HOOTS -SCARING 
FROG @ WHO 
LEAPS vF0R 
>ppwih syvm,gl 
.gvVVtOV 
lvmL3 vLgbb 
bvO.svs0g N6CA 
lvmL3 ytV3mbR 
bEugLE,m G3tL3 
mtsbI STLE0m , 
Gvm0gIU O 
bmT.0Om vO. 
vGvE0Ob ENl 
tO mtl0 m 30vg 
vbbtVOl0Om ,g 
O0Fm y0LmTg0
I NEVER KNEW
HOW GOOD A 
PI,PE COULD BE 
TILL I TRIED 
PRINCE ALBERT

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN 
SA U C E
By Scotty Charles
WHAT A DAY FOR THE IRISH WAS -SATURDAY! Notre Dame 
ttr Ohio State, Duquesne over Carnegie, Fordham ties Pittseems 
ke nothing Is saered In this day and age. Hereafter, If ye sports 
:ribe wants to gamble he Is going to play something sure like numsrs where the odds are only a thousand to one against !you. Aberombie, another aspirin with a bicarb' chaser while old Worcester* 
lire beach combs the dirt.
IN THE FIRST PLACE THE TARTANS HAD A TOTJGH DAY. 
Here was the-ball game the boys wanted to take and then they 
couldnt get the breaks to slug the swineskin across the stripe, If they 
bad gotten one or two of those needed breaks they would have been 
heroes from Overend on downhowever, without the breaks, varia
tions or the word bum and its plural are being used. IE anyone 
should inquire, the' boys played good ball.
WITH AN EYE TO FIGURES, female and statistics, its mull 
the matter. A glance at the rough calculations shows that the boys 
made moro ground In this fray than in any game this season. Out of 
45 plays by Carnegie, only fourteen were running plays, these gaining 
144 yards or about 10.1 yards per scrimmage dive. Not too bad for 
an average. Fifteen passes'were completed for 192 yards or about 12.' 
yards per pass. As I recall It/'thls represents ground gaining.
THE BOYS BOOTED ONE ONLY ONCE! That was on the sixyard line, when they were slightly at a lose and forgot to use that new 
touchdown special which is reputedly a honey. At this point the boys 
might as well have gone up and eat iu the .stands and let the side
line strateglons take over the playthey ail seemed to know Just what 
to do.
ONE MR. BRUMBAUGH MADE THINGS frightfully unpleasant for 
the Sklbos. Whenever he started out It appeared as though the Plaid 
would have to U6e a machine gun to bring him down. This same Mr. 
Brumbaugh was all set to attend Carnegie, having spent a summer 
school on campus, been out for plebe football for a couple of weeks, 
and being prepared for the routine tn general. Unfortunately, he was 
clipped from behind by the entranee exam9 and when hestopped^bouncIng was found at Duquesne. It Is rumored that the lad was seen 
thumbing hie nose at the entrance board as he crossed the stripe. 
This action (touchdown) liteldentally, was the flrsi such that the Hilltoppers have made since the Stadium was built.
THE NEW PLAYS WE HAVE BEEN HEARING ABOUT were the 
scmo. When the lads started passing it- looked like someone would 
have to blast .away; the end of the Stadium to give them room.' Ap
parently the new plan iB to work out some plays that will knock their 
eyes outafter knocking their eyes out you can do just about any
thing you want. The passes were coming so thick and fast that the 
Duquesne boys thought they were in a storm of leather confetti and 
started a parade that; ended .somewhere EaBt ot Suez. Every lime 
the Plaidj started their own seventeen jewel movement they got caught 
in a traffic jam around Times Square by a line that hasn't held any
thing more than hands all season. But those passes from Matelan to 
Splsak and visa versa made life worth living.
ONE THING THAT DIDN'T HELP THE LOCALS was the fact 
that they are pretty-tired after four successive tough games. If these 
iada can stl'lPs^i^'sli^ri flret''aowna to the opponents six when they 
are tired, we'd hate to see them after a good night's sleep.
WHEN FOOTBALL HISTORY WAS MADE AT THIS institution, 
tfie ho?B would put In one good Saturday's Tvork a month,, spending, 
the-rest of their tlme.awelng the. local yokelry of some college with a 
fourteen man-football squad; A-50-0 victory over' East* Lynne didn't 
mean much in the way of football history, -But it made a nice impres
sion in a hurried reading of the win column. And now. theboye get the 
knocker for dropping''a HtodU one to a national champion (according to 
the home town papers).
AND NOW WE COME TO HOLY CROSS and remain I 
tal again. By using this system, we have yet to pick one 0
n-commlt*
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The Tartan apologlzes-for the v
Tech BarberShop
Craig and Forbes 
Oakland '
ROLLER SEATING THE LEXINGTONAlways a Nice Crowd: of the Nicest' People 7310 Penn Ave., Cor. Lextngtor Phone CHurchlll 9488
C.S.EDMN
PRINTERHAzel 0193S470 Moaitor Strsst
For a Real-Delicious 
Home-Cooked Meal
EAT AT
Marys Restaurant
327 South Craig Street
' Near Forbes Street 
Try Our 8peclal 25c Luncheon 
EAT WHERE YOUR FRIENDS MEET.
jijiberty Enqraviiui GompanyJ
'half-tones ETCHINGS 
' COLOR PROCESS PLATES.
PHOTOGRAPHY,
COLOR,NEWS n4 COMMERCIAL
""-----ART------
A ,g YPP tyyTbmgvmtB0
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
WHERE LEADING COLLEGE STYLES. PREVAIL Forbes and Atwood Streets Pittsburgh, Pa.
Bad News Brumbaugh Leads the Way for Dukes
At this point of the game Brumbaugh of the Dukes was leading behind. Henrlon and Napotnlk ralst further ado as Murk" Hall
the way In a homey bit of follow-the-leader. Frank Chyczewskl pre- Ignores all but the camera. All In all, the boys present quite a pleas,
pares to break things up white "Jock Sutherland carlocas In from Ing tableau. Court; Plttaburch Free*.
Dukes First Quarter 
Tally Downs Carnegie 
In Exciting Contest
Tartans Show Effective 
Passing Attack for 
Most Yardage
MATELAN AND PATT 
STAR FOR CARNEGIE
Spisak Gambles; Long PasB 
Behind Goal Surprises 
, Duquesne Defense
By Ed Mulligan 
Carnegie's hard fighting ' eleven, playing with the same spirit it showed against Purdue a week ago, went down in defeat at the Stadium last Saturday. But the defeat was as honorable as they
most exclting- and viciously con-, tested which has been seen in the bowl for several years.
The only score of the afternoon came' in the. last few minutes of the flrst quarter. After Charlie Spisak had kicked out.on the Duke 36.' the - combination of /Brumbaugh, Filllngham, and Campbell
mostly to straight football 
TIERNANS
CAFE
Phone SChenley 9505
SPECIAL LUNCHES 
SEA FOOD
Opposite Forbes Field
THE DELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA
TYPEWRITERS $14.95 TO $75.00
Liberal- Term . . . Free Trial
BENT A TYPEWRITERFirst Three Moaths' Rental Applies to Purchaae PrJce.-------
. Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
644 LIBERTY AVENUE, McCloy Building 
Telephone ATIantlc 8320 Established over twenty year
most of the dirty work, and when the Hilltoppers needed a yard' for) first 'down on \he Scots flve-yard line, he gathered the pigskin to his chest and plowed through left
of the Duquesne team before he as downed on their 34.In the .third .quarter, Spisak, who cast discretion to', the winds and played a gambling-gamp;; dropped back of his goal line'In punt fi
few yards and then tosBed a floater back to Jerry Matelan. Jerry tucked the pill under his
for a second, long
The Plaid continued on down the field to the' Duquesne dtDI There they fell to passing .and that was
before be could get the pass away on the fourth down.
Duquesne nearly pushed another tally over in the fourth quarter.
lake the ball on downs.
Toe backfleld was more eilec- yards gained, than Is year. The flrst for Carnegie, and 6 for the Dukes. Tho passing looked better than it has all yoar, and Matelan heaved some beauties to draw particular attention- to .Babe Patt, on the receiving
Tech Frosh 
Defeat W. Va
Plaid Offensive Drive 
Brings 26*0 Victory
The Carnegie Tech freshmen 
football team continued Its unbent* 
en record Saturday by downing of the-strongest plehe loams, in history of WeBt Virginia1 Uni slty, 26-0, at Morgantown, West Vlr*
lings Into submission.The defensive play gratifying, the plebes holding the West Virginians in check -throughout. One of the high points of tho battle was reached when < the Mountaineer bocks broke the clear and looked like ho  for a score when one of the fast Plaid plebes overcame a ten-yard lead. to down him on the two-yard line, from .which point the Tartans annexed the'ball on downs.
Holy Cross Victorious 34-0, 
Pitt, Fordham Deadlocked
Tartans Face Unbeaten Crusaders Saturday At Wprchester
There seems to bo no respite in 
view for the lighting Scots, it Is 
just one top-notcher after another. 
Next Saturday will see the Tartans opposing another strong gridiron machine of national ranking. Holy. Cross rank well near the top in the class of teams that Carnegie has opposed this ssason. The Crusader juggernaut kept on rolling along as St. Anselms was crushed by a score of 34*0 Inst Saturday. However, the remaining 
city opponent, Pitt, was handcuffed 
by the Fordham Rams itt the big 
city. Th Pontheta'were, outplayed throughout the tray as the fighting New Yorkers gained a moral victory. In f&ct,.had not lady luck smiled ou the visitors, the iRama would have taken the Sutherland- ers Into camp by virtue, of a field, goal or two. However, twice Pnla't,
' impressive unbeaten' recoi-d in . this week's battle' with th' Tar* "
College Mers 
Know Value!
. . . and they are FINDINGvaluein the comprehensive se
lection* ot Suits, Topcoats and 
Overcoats now featured la . 
BOTH ot tho Pittsburgh Flutes 
stores. Fresh from tho Fiatex 
factory! Money-savings that the: 
Flntex factory-to-wrmrer .plan 
have made famous! See Fintox 
 compare the VALUE and 
youll know you cant do better.*
Choice of Stock
1^.50
TWO STORES I
Ckiiiels tliifii get yisiii
f*
Sofllft
3
Vf,
Some of the famous  
athletes who approve of 
' Camels .mildness
BASEBALL: Gabby Harmctc. 
Chicago Cubs; Tommy Bridges, 
Detroit Tigers; DittyDeao,;St 
Louis Cardinals; Lou Gehrig, New > 
York Yankees; Melvin Otty New 
York Giants.
TENNIS: Ellsworth; Vines, Jr.; 
WiUJamT.Tilden.2nd; GeorgeM.
Lott; Jr.; Lester R. Stoefcn; Broco
GOLFlGerieSaraaen, Craig Wood;'--Y.i:.S?:\i 
TommyAnnour,WillicMacfarlane, . \ 
Helen Hicks, Denny Shute.
TRACK AND FIELD: Jim Dsusca, _t 
Olympic *DccathIon Champion; 7
 Theres * bit of friendly guidance 
.for others in what men like-Lott and 
Harrison, Buster Crabbe and Sinwa,: 
say about Camels; -They- have tested 
Camels for mildness found chat 
Camels don't affect sound wind or 
japgle &ei?_nerves. So irn_to Camels. - 
You 11 find real hit-che spot flavor 
A distinctive, pleasing:aste. Smoke.
dont disturb their "condition. Cost
lier tobaccos do make a dJFerencel

---------------------------------------------------

 THF I^AHWFlir'.frARfr^I '-'fTTITHE CAHHCIE TCTAW; TOTODAT NOVE^BEft S. 1935
V t
General NewsEditorial Com
mentFraternal Organizations
Industries Elect Officers 
The Elections-Editorial .
Appearing iri This Weeks Issue
The: Elections
. The' last of the Night school lections -was held on Saturday, November 26. The officers who 'presided- over the various elec- , tlons are to be commended for the
the three colleges, 
v The first incident and its outcome as published in the last issue of the plaid, involved the interpretation of one of the. Eligibility roles with regard to the eligibility ' of a particular candidate who
one of the colleges. It Is regreUble that this circumstance arose.
/During the school year of 1933- 34 the Night Btudent council passed a set of regulations governing the Eligibility and Tenure of office of all candidates for Night school offices. These rules were approved'by the Faculty committee on Eligibility. Since that lime the rules have been revised and many . objectionable features have been
These rules were published in the 1934-35 Handbook as well as ini the 1935-36 Handbook and should have been read by all students, particularly thoGe aspiring to office. Before making any nominations, the person making the nomination should endeavor to ascertain the facts regarding a candidates eligibility. If this had been ' done in this particular c
it be understood at this point, thati
! ; the Plaifl'bns no axe to grind about ./''any candidate or student. There ' ' is no question as to the candidate's character or octlvitles record.
- Incident number two deals with 'tlie-. attendance at the elections. Out of a total registration of- ap- : proElmately 2,660 students, 10 per v- ; cent or about 270 students attend- ' ed the elections. If this same in- /terest were shown in national and '-state elections, what sort of gov* Yv eminent would we have? Every .student who has paid, the activities :!>$ : fes should have a vital' Interest In i'iv.Xthe. elections because It Is your :-?! ^>-money which will- be entrusted to tie.'successful candidates. Like- i &i J.wise when the officers of any col- .' lege arrange a social function in conduction with'an electioD, re- member that it is you whom they --are'' endeavoring to entertain. It ;ifLqnlte true that-.the primary pui
. In; the years to come the Interest- of- the students will be stimulated- in the affairs of the various colleger____________
Night College 
Of Industries 
Elects Officers 
At Smoker
The opening event of the Night College of Industries social calendar was the annual Election Smoker held Saturday, October 26, in the Union. During the course of
of the many Industries students in attendance.
The entertainment included an interesting movie presented by the Duquesne Light Company, two boxing bouts, and the famous Kiltie Band-in full regalia, u: rectioD of Mr. E. F. Sull added color to the occasion.* Souv< nirs were distributed and of course there were smokes and refreshments. The door prizes, which were awarded to Boyd Vuinovlch, Nick Kulyck, and Richard Bonnch, consisted of a 1936 Thistle, a flashlight, and' a pen-knlfe.Following the entertainment, the election was held. By unanimous
sent them in Council this year: Herbert Stone, President; Edmuud Drensen, Vice , President; Harold Park, Secretary; and Howard Duv- bln, Treasurer. Both Mr. Stone and Mr. Durbin were re-elected to the offices which they held last year. Mr. Stone, who Is registered in-the Mechanical Drafting course, has been on the campus for a num- br of years and during the past
d President of Industries and as both assistant social chairman and social chairman of the Night School. During the past year, Mr. Drensen, registered in the Machine Practice course.
of the night section of the. 1934-36 Thistle. Although Mr. Park has been on the Campus for several years and haB received a number
Durbined as Vice President of Council during the last year and has been awarded several Insignias for his activities work. All four officers Te members of Nu Sigma Alpha fraternity.
Plaid Will Introduce 
New Council Members
In keeping . with the policy instituted last year, the Plaid present a series of intli
of the Night School.
asp,.r
PHI KAPPA NIGHT
Wednesday, November 6th
with KAY KYSER
His Music . . . Funsters ...
Singers . . . Novelties . . . Col
lege Amateurs ... School Songs 
... A Great Night . . What
, Supper Dancing!
THE CHATTERBOX
Minimum Check  $1.00
HOTEL WILLIAM PENN
By Extraordinary 
Publia Demand!
c/irting Qtylonday
2nd and LST WEEK
WARNER BROS. PRESENT 
I .MAX REINHARDT'S screen productionI A- MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM
by William Shakeapeare, Muilc by Mendelssohn.
TICKETS NOW: 0* SUE AT BOX 
OFFICE FOR- SECOND WEEK
Murry/ Hurry! to aim re yourtelfof teat*
MrtlnM $114. % 66 and $ .57 
E**nlac41 71 $1 M. *>96 end 542-^. - 
Performances*t2.30and8.30P.M.
NIXON THEATRE
Box Office open 10 a. m. Tel. Atlantic 6219
Fin Arts College Completes 
Plans for Armistice Dance
Jim Brays Orchestra Is 
Selected for First 
Social function
Ail arrangements have been com
pleted for the Armistice Day dance 
which will be the opening event on the night College of Fine Arts social program for the current year. The dance will be held bn Monday,
held.for the students registered In the College of Fine Arts, students registered in the other colleges
Ises decorations and progri'el nature . In keeping with the spirit of the holiday. Arrangements have been made for the use of the Military ball decorations hich should please those attendorchestm have been selected to furnish the music for the occasion. While this will be Mr. Bray's initial appearance at a night school
recent Honorary tea dance i
features two vocal floloiets. Mr. Bray's orchestra is well known throughout the city and eastern part of the state having filled enSchenley Hotel and Penn State college. in the near future he will re- to Penn State college for hiB
BAND LEADER
i Art's dance, Mon
been Invited to attend the affali are: Miss Mary Watson Green,dean of women. Mr. A. W. Tarbell, dean of men, Mr. and Mrs. Roy A. Hilton, Mr. and Mrs. J. Vide OBrlan, Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Rea- dio, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Slmboli, Mr. and Mrs. Peter Muller-Monk.
As was mentioned In a recent issue of the Plaid, no classes will be scheduled for Armistice Day.
ST. ANDREWS LUTHERAN CHURCHCentre and Morewood Avenues HENRY O. ECKHARDT, Pastor 
Sunday Morning Worship. 10:46 A. M.Sunday School, 9:30 A. M.Young People's Hour every alternate Sunday. 7:15 P. M.
c.)
Council Asks 
Student Help
Due to the fact that the decorations used at the Mil
itary ball will asovbe used for th Armistice dance, it will not be necessary for the student Council ' workers to assist inthe..decoration of Thistle hall or in the' removal of the decorations. However, volunteers will be needed -to distribute programs and work in the check room during . the dance. Anyone wishing to assist in this work, for which credit will be,given toward an Insignia, is requested to send his or her name and address to the Night Student Council, Box 136; Carnegie Institute of Technology,' Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa., not later than Friday, November 8.
NIGHT LIGHTS
Midge Thoma has finally been 
discovered biding out in the Home 
Decoration class, of all places! . . . The up and coming Phi Nus finally got around to holding a masquerade -party two days after
SPECIAL CORSAGE, $1.00
LYDIA SNYDERS
FLOWERS
MRTZ LINES
Express Bus Service
Hallowe'en' . . Isabelle Bensboff
hasn't been to class since the bike 
races-came - to - town.
Talk about your Greensburg 
(aimers! Dick Shields visited a 
Wylie Avenue Cafe last -week with 
92 cents in his pocket When pre
sented with a $3.00 bill and a nasty 
look, he carefully explained that 
this was only the third time hed 
ever been in - Pittsburgh, and he 
didn't know night clubs ran that 
high! ... it was only with great difficulty that Anne Hanson was dissuaded from running for president at the smoker last Saturday.
Harry .Mattern (the Pitcairn Romeo) is supplied with cigars for the rest of. the year. He is the one that was supposed to pass them out at the smoker! . .  Alter the hard and bloody battle be fought at the Industries election, Herb Stoneresist the impulse girl friend all the 1
. drive his
They found a gentleman staffWillie Wespe- ley prefers them blond!
Campus 
Beauty Shoppe
BEAUTY CULTURE IN ALL i ITS BRANCHEG 
[ Marcel, Shampoo, Finger Wave,
Campus BarberShop
SERVICE and SATISFACTION 6176 Woodlawn Avenue MAyflower 3921
In Memoriam
Regrettingly, the Plaid learned of the death of Mr. Arthur Huehn, father of Julius Huehn, a former' Carnegie night student who at present is rehearsing for the opening of the opera season. His many'friends and the Plaid staff take this opportunity to express their deepest sympathy .to the family of Mr.
Tis Said
wins. Catch THAT the staff hopes the editor or the thesis on paints stleks to his Job.THAT the editor of Night Lights wants a red hat.THAT by the time you read
THAT although
Dine at
KAHNS GRILL
Murray Avenue and Darlington 
Road
Home Cooked Food 
Moderate Prices
No Cover Charge
For many decades the out
standing merits ol K & E 
Slide Rules have been rec
ognized and appreciated 
by engineers throughout 
(he world.
K&E
SLIDE RULES
KEUFFEL a ESSER CO.NEW YORK AmrHifli (eremo* manufacturer CHICAGO SAf 
HOBOKEN, N.J. ST. LOUIS I
"SHy* (Carttpgti?
Editor EDWARD F. WHITE "News'Editor 
CORNELIUS A. BLOCHINGER StaffR. A. I^hr A. C. GrimmW. J. Nolgot W. WesseleyD. O. Davis W. A. VenselC. E. Blochinger G. McCormackE. Drensen E. E. McDonald M. Gereon . J. S. Geyser
THAT part of the attend: at the Little Theater Is due blond Cleopatra.
Well, to Start with, we take tobacco 
from our own Southland  mild ripe 
tobacco with lots of natural flavor but
In a single day people from ten different 
states visited our Chesterfield factories.
. 8,200 visitors.dunag the past year saw1' 
Chesterfields made.
-si;* '
