Meiranst-ie-at-Ubertyte 
eay in print whatever they.- 
have in npnd.4n say pro^ 
Tided it wrongs no one.
CHARLES A. DANAWie Carnete (Tarfati
TODAY'S EDITORIAL 
-Decision Reste With. You 
Is Brown House the 
Answer ?
An Orchid for You* 
Delta Skull 
_______Opportunities
VOL. 29, NO. .7.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, -PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOV. 6; 1934
STUDENT COUNCIL ABANDONS CLOCK TOWER PROJECT
Reeling on Councils Act
SVS-JTEX* WBsB &
M :CtSertam
Brown House 
Is Proposed 
As Building 
For Activities
Considered for Possible 
Use Temporarily 
Until 1946
WILL LANDSBERG 
MADE CHAIRMAN
$18,000 Donated to Four 
Million Dpllar Fund for 
Permanent Building
Definite action to provide an- Activities Building on the campus was taken. by Student Council at its meeting last: Tuesday night when it. recommenaea aoe Brown House as a' possible place to house the recreation rooms' and actlvf
Activities Building was unanimously approved.
The Brown House located on Forbes Street adjacent to. the Cut on the right' side, is to be considered ae a possible; .temporary  Activities BulldlDg- until 1946- when the Four Million Fund trebles Itself, according to the understand ing with the Trustees of the Institution, and enough money would be provided by it for the erection of a'permanent structure of this kind.. Complete remodeling of the interior of the Brown House would be required In order;forit to fulfillIts purpose.  7 " y...........-
Tlia need -for an' Activities Build* Ing'^tas'. be.en'..realized ;by. Student Councils'of the, past.few y eara and; rOCTltlbn:'^aa:^ven.tiils-Jieed-b^ recomn^ndatlons.-wl^ch'were paesr ed down: rrom: year to.year by enc- ceedlng Councils '.The only defln? lte action that has been taken; to date, was the donating.of surpluses of Student Council funds amounting $18,000 tothe.Four-Million Dollar Fund,: the money to be used* ex*, pressly for the purpose-of erecting such S building. No . action had ever before been taken to provide an immediate solution.Student Council President William E. . Becker appointed Will Landsberg. 36 as chairman'ofthe Activities Building Committee. This appointment has not yet been approved by Student Council.
Casey Premiere 
Set for Thursday
Glas9 Houses Ie -Seasons 
Second Big Production
The premiere, performance of Glass Houses, by , Rosemary Casey will be presented Thursday evening In the Little Theater by the Dejjar-tnvMit- of Et-ama as~th& second major production of the
jg under -the direction of Chester M. Wallace. There will be a matinee for students on Friday, November 9 at 3:30, for which no tickets of admission required. ' .Like Miaa Caseys "Love" Is Not Important/'" produced'"by :the'- Department of : Drama at 'the. Nixon Theater last spring, Glass Houses Is a bright comedy of contenpor* ary life. The plot is concerned with the efforts of a New Yorker lo recoup his  fortunes after the market crash, efforts which, takethe form' Of blackmail: ...The play is a comedy, of wit and winners expressed in the_ style that was observed in Miss Casey's earlier play. Miss Casey has remarked to Mr. Chester M. Wallace, who directed "Love Is Not Important,- that she thought the play was more cleverly produced by Carnegie students than It had be professionals.Author a Pittsburgher Rosemary Ca*ey is a Pitteburgli'and the daughter of John F. Casey, a man prominent in the industrial and civic life of the city. In college. Miss Casey majored in history, and not in a subject-in any way connected with  writing qr drama. . Miss Casey was graduated from Barnard College:-New -York, and took .'her.'Masters degree at Columbia University;- Miss.Caseys latest, .play "The .Saints Husband.-written. in collaboration with Mr: B. IdenPayn?; of the Department of Drama: was Produced last summer--at'-'Locust valley. Long Island.-.and-Is to.' be presented on Broadway soon under the direction of Antoinette  Perry.The cast The cast of "Glass Houses- In- dudes: Thomas -.Kohler EugeniaKehr, George Ktttridge. Mary Ann 
Hughes, Janet Patrick. Mary Chaffy; Barry Mulligan. George Lloyd. William Davis, Alden Smith, and Regis.I
ooyce
, There will,he amatinee_______
Ud?^NQyember;9:.!at.S:30,\O'clock;
Assembly Speaker |
Prof. Leacock 
Speaks Today 
At Assembly
Canadian Is Recognized 
Humorist, Speaker;
In Whos Who
Stephen. Leacock, Ph.D.; noted 
humorist and political science lec
turer, has been secured' to' speak 
today at the second general assem
bly' of-the ;year.- Assembly will-be 
Held'at'ti: 30' ''m^f^tt^-^rne^cr td^^'re&itake^Cr^^'*^1- 
Music Hall. Dr. Leacock will start 
ills'.-address promptly at 11:45 and 
will flnlsh at 12:30. ' -
Dr. Leacocks subject combines 
humor and' political science. HI 
address will be entitled Whei 
Can We Start the Next War?"
Dr. Leacock is one* of'-'the mos entertaining speakers on " college campuses of the present day.- HeIs professor of political science i
Mark Train of Coday .'and has said that he.would soon have written Alice in Wonderland'thanthe Encyclopedia Britannica,
Last night Professor Leacock was the guest speaker at th Twen* tieth Century Club of this city.__ "We Want StevieIt Is related that at a large gathering at McGill University,'the entire audience arose, at a given moment, and shouted-with pne-voice:- We want Stevie.r> An' incident recorded of Stevies works Is to the effect that'some of his books a so bumorous a character that, ;.or many years,.it .was- found impose!-' ble-to print them since the compositors, fell back from their chairs iContinued n :PgTw6)
A n nual Militai 
Will Be Held,
M. Spitalny Will Pldy
R. Roberts, Kloos Lead 
Grand March Which 
Begins at 12
ROTC HONORARY 
TO CALL MEMBERS
Novel Military Decorations 
Planned; Refreshments 
1 Will Be Served
twelfth annual Military, this Friday from ten till two; in Thistle Hall. ' Maurice -Spitalny and -his fourteen-piece band will supply the dance tunes.The grand march v.i) midnight; Robert B. l colonel of the Carnegie.It. O. Ti C., and Veronica A. Kloos '35. honorary cadet colonel, will. lead, the
SpilaJny, genial
immendations. Among SpltainyS fourteen musicians are three featured performers: Eddie SandBon,' the outstanding trumpet player in- the United States; Bill Sherman, vocalist, and Grant. Wilson, band- leading pianist from Chicago. - 
Band played at Fair 
Spitalny's' band was the opening
Cadet Colpnel :|
attraction at the famed Trianon Ballroom in Cleveland. The dance band played several' weeks at''the 1933 World's Fair In Chicago and 'as.-engaged all. last
officers will, be presented by ,i
military commissions .and favors. At the same, time - Scabbard -and Blade will bl^ twenty-nine juniors and seniors to membership in the military society..
- Scabbard and Blade-Calls 29 Those - receiving bids .will 'be: Harry R. -Cameron '367 Robert E. OLeary 36, John Single 36, Evans
Richard W. Dennison '36,"-Robert C. Coblntz '36, Edward' J. Whlen '37, Harold J. Mltchener *37, JoF. Morten 36, James C Forsythe '36, and John C. Geffel '37.James N.. Jones.' 36, {Peter H. Wykoff 36, Edward D. Peter 36, Henry Lehrie '36, Edgar F. Carlton 36, John N. .Communtals '36, William G. Holliday '36,. Ernest P: Schleusnor '36, Howard M. Means' 36, Francis'.E. Abrino 36, Robert E" Warren 35, Fred- S'. Daitres 36; and^Willlsim-q. Miller 37.;-:'Estimates based upon __
College Papers Unite in Challenging . 
Hearst for His Nationalist Policies
Approximately 660. Will 
Publisli Opcn Letter ' 
To Hearst Soon
In an effort to exert a contradic
tory influence on the nationalistic 
propaganda, that is being spread throughout the  country by ' theHearainewspapers; the...Tartanwill combine with approximately 660 other colleges next week in publishing an open letter to Mr. William Randolph Hearst calling him to account Cor nationalistic policies and 1ns theories of isolationism and -preparedness. - 
. This move is being sponsored by the Association of -College Editors of which William Lansberg 36. editor of the Tartan:., is-a charter member- The-Association., as stated In its'Convenaht.- is.: dedicated to stimulating the mterests of atu- dents throughout the world In promoting international understanding and co-operation in thte hope of ultimately. achieving and ensuring international- peace and.rsecurity: '> This letter marks-the first 8tep--iQ-trying-to arouse and. rys-iindergraduate opimoi 
national'basis and issue.. Tnia -.issttfe- opposed
anatibnal 'nationalise!".
........  lnternatiojiallsm-.v
Mr. .Hearst: who has been. named. No :1 Nationalist in America. -wJll be asked C this letter, to state, the case for nationalism. -
The'letter, which will appear In ttwt week^ issue; wlJl.^ -rrvadiiled:
after that of* Sir Norman Angells of-Britain which was sent to Lord Beaverbrook, owner of the London- Daily Eipress and associated newspapers and^who is . considered ofl Englands-No.--l. Nationalist, cross^iamlnlhfci-him "before the. har-.ftf, pu^^igtopinion , on all hie, policies. *
Meltinger Wins Medal 
As Pisiol Marksman
Defense Committee of the AmefJ can- Legion Auxiliary, for-the highr 
est honors in pistol nSarksmanship at the signal corps summer camp
of Scabbard and -Blade, and holder of the gold-medal given by, the ' latter organization.: for. ; the -highest-{ndi\*i<iaat .cofgv;-
Carnegie 
Tartan 
Quarter Hour
Note: Tltne hairbeen- changed-to 
 * 7:15. Fridays.-, .-  wsw
7:16Friday1.500 K-ilocycles'-  250<^atts
Wee- Scotch  Lassie.
 /Lost in a Fog." 
 "Sweetie Pie."  ' 
Sctocft^iiBffies -vAiyce-'PtnlpoU^'and 
 Betty Schrack)r novel^piano
dueL
Will Landsberg. Editor-in-chief; of. 
Tarlan .'.-'.Th.e New, Activities 
: Building."
AnnouncerCarl; M,..,Dozer.v.
Straw Vote
Takes . Place 
To m orro w
Commons, Grill, Skibo 
Inn are Selected as 
Noting Places
CONFLICTING VIEWS 
RESULT IN ACTION
' appointed cadet.
Cadet Officers 
For R.Q.T.C
Are. Appointed
Roberts Named Colonel, 
Glenn, Mellinger Hold 
......~Rank-t>f Majors :
On October 30, .the 'following student officers of th R. O. T. C. unit were appointed, for .the .first semester by the Department of itary Science and Tactics : Robert B. Roberts 35, OoJonel. JPenroi Melllngf- 36,'.- Major* First Battalion; James R. Glenn 35, Major, Second Battalion: Oscar H. Kraft '36, -Captain,. Regimental Adjutant; William . H. Sharp ; '3fi. Captain Company A; Raymond C. V. Reed 35, Captain, Company .B;  James B. Kelly 35, Captain, Company C; J. .Kenneth .Walker '35, Captain, Company D  William G. Kulesz 35, Captain;- Company E j Raymond P. Hanna' 35; Captain; Company F; William H. Stafford *36; First Lieutenant; Adjutant, First Battalion;, and Robert E. Staunch 35, First Lieutenant, Adjutant,- Second Battalion.Appointed on Merit 
- The- above - appointments have been made .for excellence in and-comm.aiid among those stuc who-have during..the past .three years attained a B average In Mlli- taxy department/'studies. The additional electioni fr particular types of ;assignmnts :. have been made with ..indiFidiwl'oif-"duties for'which they are"; best suited. Appointments are -foi first sem,ester only.; Student officers who- siiow improvement in-ability may, in some cases, later replace officers who have not .functioned efficiently, during.the first, semester. Assignments as first lieutenants in command of -platoons' are to be Ailed after further training of. those 'seniors iLOt yeVpromoted. 
.....Receive Drill InstructionIn conjunction with-.the special instruction in. drill command, the juniors and seniors are also.recv ' ing .special course instruction the theory of drill. In .addition; the seniors are haying saber drill, this being the first time  in" the  hisiory of the unit at Carnegie tha eenfors are using tlie- regulation saber. The seniors are also acquiring uniform boots breeches, and olive drab shirts.. The mjlitaryunit at Carnegi one-regiment of two battalions and six- companies. Assignments of
Seek Accurate Information 
Of Students Concerning ; 
Proposed Project
project, the;Tarlan will .conduct <i poll tomorrow between the hours of 11:30 and .1:30 Voting placfes .will be established . at the -three' restaurants on the campusTho Commons, The Grill, and Sklbo Inn.
- . This: action is being taken be- .cauBe of views that have been ex- :prcseed .on the campus and in the '.editorial . columns of-the Tartan , to the.effect that the'Anal decision as to, whether work on this; project should be continued rests dlFectly ' ' ' i the_ - is to ..been built with studei by student labor.
The questionnaire to be subwllling to- support financially th
:the' Tower be erected.' The reason :for this' lack' of detailed informs^ <tidn Is because there ls.no committee at present in operation.- An estl- jmate hinted at by;last years com- '-T<:-doiiab.per:^ye<M:ilor.
through 'the' Alumni and by other 'dontlohs.- These questionnaires will be handed out at-the door. f the cafeteria; and will - be ' col- lcted when the. student leaves. This-' method enables the student to'discuss the question thoroughly during lunch.hour, and thus be- better prepared to submit an answer.
places on the campus, It is not expected that every student will be reached. But 'it' is nticipatd: that this method will  reach a large enough majority to obtain
Department Head 
Co-authorof Book
Prof. Cleeton, Mr. Mason 
Write Training Manual
Professor Glen U. Cleeton, head of 'the Department of -.Industrial Education, and Mr.: Charles W. rjiadi'T.'.fi..connaelea: ..oZ .theCarnegie Library, are joint authors of the recently published book,. Executive. Ability, Its.- Discovery and Devc+opment. The material used In the book is based /on investigations made at Carnegie, under the Bureau of Personal. Research and
The work analyzes the duties of an executive and Investigates- the abilities of successful executives thrbugli to use of rating Beales and psychological .tests. The .re- suU.S of. these tests wer compared
___of all-around ability ratherthan .the 'specialist was found to higher in the
ability In industryand business, be used In se
lection of people. to be trained, to suggest -methods of training an self-development for the ambitiou:
t develop a higher degree of <
Future Activities Building i
Tartan photo by. Miller 
Attention is focused on the Brown Houie thls week ln vlfsw of Stui dent Council's recommendation that the possibility of, miking Jt  tern; porary |tlyltle^bu1pldlne be looked.Into....< v:/
.< . .>1 _ .''S.
 Proposed Clock Tower
Tartan photo by Miller 
The most advanced design of the proposed Clock .Tower as oarrled forward by Charles F. Slater, 36, student designer, until Student 
Council voted down'the entire project.
Carnegie .Opens Drive 
For Community Bund
Entire School Will Be Canvassed; Organized Agency 
Lessens Number of Private Appeals; Goal 
Hts Been Set at $6,000 This Year
The Community Fund drive which got under way No
vember 1 to raise $2,615,120 to finance the services of its mem
ber agencies for the coming year will be aidcd by Carnegie In
stitute of Technology and tlic .Carnegie Institute. Mr. John D. 
Beatty, Bureau of Recommendations, is in. charge of the drive 
at Carnegie.
 Last Wednesday the Kiltie Band* participated In the huge paradewhich heralded the campaign. At the Student Assembly today William JY Becker 38, president of Student Council, .will officially open the student-campaign.Canvass Student Body .Present plans call
lire ______ ...will be- asked, - but - $1.00 per student will be the goal. Cash rteefl 'ftot "Vi6 -oiwIs solicited, A pledge card can be
.signed and .the money can. be-paid at a later date. 'RolHn V. Davis, secretary ' of the Y.- M. -,C. A.,- will
Carnegie. -airaady' -iCKi: i Page Six.)
Class Honorary Elans to Inaugurate.! 
New Policy for Selecting Members
Carnegie Prof. Chosen 
To Beard of Judges
 Professor Chester Wallace, of {he Department of Drama, , was re*, cently chosen .a member of the
board >E Judges presented the award on .November 1 to Wllltam Sutherland, a KDICA announcer..
Coming Events
New Meihod Hoped to Give 
All Sophinre Cban 
To Make Society
Council Terms 
Proposal as 
Unnecessary
Senior Fence Triangle 
Is Site Suggested 
For 80 ft. Spire
MEM O K I A L TOWER 
WILL-COST $30,000
LargeTilcd Interior Chamber 
Would Contain Stutue , 
Of Andrew Carnegie
Student Council voted to abandon / 
the''Memorial Clock Tower HA 'a / 
studont project; at Its iiieeting laat 
Tuesday night. The'proposal 'waB 
presented- to Council In :ihe form 
of a rocomraendation fromj ' last 
year's Coinicil, that work be con-*' 
llnnod on the Clock Tower. ' A.. large'majority voted to reje'otthis. recommendation. 
not hiive sufficient time to' dvote, - to the labor which would b-'ln-' .- volved; there is not sulflclnt needv for- the tower on-the campus; tha money could be better spent on:aik. > activities blldlg; v.'Kn'- .tviciB' buimg'is completed .th'&v clock' and' the chimes coiild - be vln-; corporated In the. plans; th strucr ture would not fit into' the 'plani for future expansion of the. school^;.
to Andrew Carnegie,'the'tllltaria: purposes of a large public^.clocS: -' 
are^ht^ti.be^.d^ledji-the^BtwCr:-' ture , would -encharic the'.peaty of the campus;- it would, 'prviap work and practical experience tor students in nearly all departments;-^ and the amplifying - system could be riised for public addresses lb ad1 dltlon to the regular.use as a dock : chime'system.  . ..if'.iVv-'
Clock Tower Facts
All facto are based upoiv . assumptions and ore subject to change. - 
Cost930,000.
Cost to be borne by
Helflht80.Test 
Area400- equare feet. 
11-foob Illuminated cloek.
 Chime amplifying system. 
Exterior building material 
study will be Involved'In-the erection of the -vowtr
Architect  Charles F. Slater"'3B. k ' '';V
yixture.a--foui*. bronze:, plaques, four Btone .oarvlngs, . wrought Iron, gates; drinking,, fountains* bronze ' statue of. Andrew Carnegie. ' '.: 'i
proposal.. for.,?m  out^Qr.;ijcostly the idea found favor Svith Edmiind ;Mc-/ Cormick, 34 former edltor oi -the - Tartan. The project was brought .v to. the attention of. Student Coffi- J cil. by Ira Kuhn '33, social chaii?*;- ' The' help of the Department-'
11:46Student Assembly.Carnegie Music-Hall  Stephen Leacock, speaker. Wednesday-r-.:. -Intersorority Non-rushing Tea: M. - M. -Recreation Hall.   - : Thursday. .<. M. M'. Sorontles begin open rushj-ing. . .:-11:30:Safety. ValveProf.. Cleeton. "Psychology of War and .. War- PropagandaInd. -22BA;. 12:30Women's Debating Union .Rebolveui "That Democracy, is Through as a Form of Social Control"103 M. M. .  8:15  '.'Glass Houses." Little  .TBeater.
Theater.10:00Military Ball  Tnistle . Hall. "Saturday 2:15;Carneg-1 e-Temple Game BroadcastBrown House 9 00Poet Military
Delta Skull., ms 
honorary, adopted a new p licy 
selecting eligible men for' the 
ganizatlon ,at its rogular meeting 
last Wednesday. The 
innovation lo- the Carnegie class 
honorary system.
Heretofore, a prospective member of Della Skull had lo be sponsored by an active mamher of the groupthe system used by all
basis; of present plans: I__
itlvitles - and. grades to-U <?*? cost ot the structure will: office sometime in April (the prs- xeed $30,000. It is assumed, else final-date will, be announced .516,000 will,be ..raised by ypopnllflP,u^w subscription of students, and alum^-^pg ni - The remainlrig $lB,p00 will'lre ^i5 contributed by interested individi V-S uals and by - material , contrib.utldhs from . indU8tHai.  concerns. Tho S.tower-wpuld be..eight, i t hUch jand twenty-feet square at the .^Uiev.^p Risers aiid'a etone<.t<rr r would ,enc.ircle.;thevba8.e.; It. :i8.vproijoEM|^^ 
THttt' the
' Mr. Owen-. Bowser -3fl:  president -. .;of Delta. - Skull., -f: .this, means -that  those - men who- do not have a friend or a fraternlty: brother-in the-.actlve-group;will-be. able- h> get Into-'the' organization on - their own merits, rather thanfcls afniiatious. Under: the old- system
Puppet staff. Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, Tri-publlcatlons staff. -.Thistle, staff, class offices.': team . managershlp,- Kiltie Band, cheer-leader; gleerclub;
Wi ii for a i
of'-lndiaua- limestone. _..............Four- clock-.-faces of eleven: diameter rWOUld.be placed->n top of the - tower. : These  would - be ' Illuminated- ;by.'v; tubes- ' An Engll sh - flrra -has, i jai*tpj3.j?ja:-.etJxnnt.e. or..*AR0O;>fc,=^ Westminster-.. Chime . instalUUOByi,^ Mr. Slater feels, however, vthatC^;:,;^. less -expensive: chime- - amplifyliiB^^ system would-be satisfactory.-.Eow^vVii large ampUflere .-^would v ma^e^.l.CSg. possible Htov^hear.t.tiia chlmeS^a '^(Contliiuedi.on :'sPage>T-,w<v)^

---------------------------------------------------

rTHE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. NOVEMBER' 6, 1934
Margaret Morrison Sororities Begin Open Rushing Thursday
Each to Hold 
Formal Dance
Silence Period Begins 
Sunday Evening
3 MAJOR EVENTS
 Intersorority Council Holds 
Non-rushing Tea Wed.
The .fleet open rushing season t
Novembers, and will last until Sunday, November 18. The "aliened period will begin at midnight Sunday evening and will end at 4:30 Wednesday afternoon, No. Ccancil are contained in the Car- Jiegle Handbook.
Three Major Rushing Events Each sorority -will hold three major rushing events. One event will be & formal dance. On Sunday, November 11, all three sororities will .give teas. The teas will be either :on ' campus or -nearby, making it possible for a girl to attend : than' one tea. The third function -will be an informal one, each s<. itjr. planning a different and 
'/.usual type of entertainment.
; '.The first Margaret Morrison Intersorority tea, a non-rushing affair, will be held tomorrow, from 4 to 6, in the Margaret Morrison ' Recreation hall. The entire sopho- xnore class has been invited to be the. guests of Kappa Phi Delta, Gamma Phi Sigma, and Alpha Theta Sigma, the sororities of Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.\ jThe purpose of the tea is to give  th members of the sororities the opportunity f meeting the sophomore girls interested in' being 
. rushed.
Margaret Shultz, Chairman 
( .Margaret L. Shultz 36, a member of Kappa Phi Delta, is general ' "chairman of the tea. The rest of - the committee consists of Jayne E. /- Hndersun 35, Kappa Phi Delta;
Alpha Theta Sigma; .Ruth H. 'Schmelz 35, Gamma Phi Sigma; Mary Wynn 35, Alpha -Theta Sigma; Lois Cohley 35, Alpha Theta .Sigma; Margaret E. Watters 'P"
and Elizabeth Stuart 36, Gamma Phi Sigma. .  
Each sorority has been asked to een minutes enterla time during the t The sororities are limited to talent from their own group.  give each sorority an added chance to present their members' to the underclassmen.
Adyisors to Pour Tea 
Dean Mary Watson Greet :.Ci T. Blackmor'gma, M_.______ to Kappa Phi-Delta, and Miss Pilgrim and Mrs. Ralph Edgars. advisors to Alpha Theta Sig
ma, -will pour.
Post Military 
Ball Planned 
For Saturday
F. Eichlers Orchestra 
Will Play; Dancing 
From 9 till 12
The___Military Ball will beheld next Saturday In Thistle Hall from. 9 till 12 o'clock. Fran Eichlers orchestra has been selected to furnish the music.
This dance follows the Carnegle- Temple game at Philadelphia and will take the place of the regular football dance. The admission price will be $1.00 per couple. The same decorations will be used for the Post-Military Ball as were used for the Military Ball.
Fran Elchler's orchestra has made several other appearances on the Carnegie campus, having played for the Tartan Style Show in Thistle Hall last Bprlng and at numerous tea dances. He has also been a regular feature over station
The Men Behind the Clock Tower
Prof. Announces 
Lecture Schedule
8 Lectures to Be Presented 
Before Dept, of Printing
Prof. David Gustafson has nr inunced a complete schedule of .ectures to be presented before the Department of Printing by* eight outstanding leaders In the printing industry. The exact dates of these lectures, except the first-one, have been decided upon as yet, but - will be posted on the bulletin board well in advance of each lec- This group of lectures is aored by the United Typoth^ tae of America and the American Institute of Graphic Arts which strives to link the Department of Printing of  Carnegie with the printing industry, and to keep the
try.
I
 Annual Military Ball 
Will Be Held Friday
 Continued Front Page 1 ~
tary Ball indicates that approximately r...........................
nit will- wear their regulation uniforms.
The honorary officers who willviw-iY- cwAav/asioa-j -at the* cliteCo? the Ball are Veronica A. Kloos, col- partment . bnel; Mary P. Nicols and Marie A. ~
i Nov. 14 in Wednesday, ) in Room 251 o be delivered by John J* Deviny.wlll be entitled, The Graphic Arts CodeIts Possible Effect Upon the Future of
Tho first lecture, November 14 at 3:i Industries Building,
Printing." Mr. Devlny Is
Edmund J. McCormick '34, lefl, former editor of the Tartan who served ae chairman of the Clock Tower Committee, and Charles F. Slater 35, student designer of the Clock Tower.
Council Abandons Proposed 
Campus Clock Tower Plans
Carnegie Prof. 
Discounts Old 
Coal Theory
Dr. E. Btfrl Believes 
Coal to Be. Derived 
From Cellulose
Need for Structure Not 
Enough to Wan ant 
$30,000 Expense
Continued From Page One.))r the campus' The chimes would 
sound at twenty and thirty minutes 
post the hour. This would not 
disturb classes in session.
Location of Tower 
The tower would be located in 
the trlnngle behveen the Hut, En
gineering Hall bulletin board, and the cut.1 There would be an entrance on each of the four sides. Over each opening would be sculptured stone pieces symbolic of the four, component colleges of Catnegie. The interior \vonld be a large tiled, vaulted room. On.the walls over the entrance would' be bronze plaques depicting the origin and history of each college.'
Eng. Fraternity 
Convention Held
thented
bust o
pedestal would be a bronze statue of Andrew.Carnegie. Gates Instead of Doors 
There would be no doors closing off the Interior of the Clock Tower. Wrought Iron gates be hung in each of thei halfway up the tower
president of the United Typoi of Engraving and Printing and rose to the assistant directorship. He was assistant secretai of the United Typolhetae of America in' 1928, secretary in 1929, and is now the chief administrative fleer of the code authority for co mercial relief in the printing lnThe second speaker will be -Mr. Arthur C. Jewett, former director of the College -of Industries at Carnegie, now chairman of research and survey in the printing indue- . Soill be Highlights from the* Fifth Conference of Technical Experts of the Printing lu* dustry."Gage Will Lectun
would contain all clock and chime mechanism.
The senior fence would not be removed but the area around- the tower would be beautified by hedges, stone benches,, and drinking fountains.
It is assumed that the cost ol the Memorial Tower would be kept at a minimun through the ployment: student lbor and by
stltute York. He wi Department
New9 the flrst head of the if Printing at Carneray will 1 ture on Direct Color Photography and its Relation to Printing. Mr. Murray Is the research chemist and
/SchmeUz, Madolin Vautrinot, Loif Conley, Mary Jane Atkinson, ^Elizabeth Lowrey, and Jean F. /Sloane, captains,. .
j; Military Decorations
: Over the bandstand will be .- placed -a large lighted replica of the Scabbard and Blade , badge. On .'each side of the stand'will he two . cbrps lnslgnias, one for the Signal Corps and one for the Engineering ^Corps'of the Carnegie regiment, 
w Refreshinents will he served dur- ;-ibg the dance In the foyer of
?. of the hall. The ticket takers will
KodakCompany In Rochester, New Yoi^k. The fifth speaker will Be Mr.
contributions of materials fi dustrlal firms. Nearly every_ di partment in.the school'ould be portionthe work. It is estimated that proxlmately 800 student;
tower and nected with tlon.
i will be directly c
; Fad
Several previously published statements relating to the Clock Tower have bean erroneous, was said that 'each of the Carnegie trustees had volunteered $1,000 ward the erection ot the Memorial Tower. This report is unfounded, It is doubtful whether the proposed site behind the i-.enlor fence would afford suitable support for the eighty -foot structure. The land between the Hut" and Engineering Hall Is filled . In and a largeunestimated expense
Ope of the oldest theories known to science has recently been disproved by Dr.' E. Berl, Research Professor of Chemistry. at Carnegie. Previous to Dr. Berls work, scientists had thought that coal and petroleum were formed by the decomposing animal matter that had collected when the animals ;died In the marshes, were buried under tons of earth, and were subjected to terrific pressure and heat Dr. Berl has produced synthetic coalbut he made it from cellulose and. carbohydrates, together with limestone, magnesite, and two alkaline materials. These were subjected to a temperature of 500 degrees' Fahrenheit and presMaterials very much like natural oil and gas were produced in the
Local Chapter Represented 
By Kaymond D. Hanna 
schools in all parts of the country.
Tau Beta PI was founded 1865, as on engineering honorary fraternity for those who have, shown distinguished scholarship, and exemplary character as undergraduates In engineering. ' Alumni who have made noteworthy-attainments in the field of engineering are also admitted. The honorary alms Lo foster a spirit of liberal culture in the engineering colleges of America.Each year Tau Beta. PI award: from 5 to 8 scholarships
study aloi ticular engineering line.Two new chapters, one at ! gers University and the othei Stanford University, were admitted to Tau Beta Pi at the convention
Louisiana' State University for
of initiation fees, suggestions were made to use stainless stel Insignias and a small printed card which could be carried in a billfold or card-case. j. This , would supplant ' the present sheepskin or shingle.Mr. Hanna is a senior hi the Department of Physics. He is president of three engineering honor- aries, Tau Beta Pi, Theta Tau, and Eta Kappa Nu.
Freshman Printers 
Invited to Visit Plant
extended an Invitation to all Freshman printers - for luncheon visit to the plant today.
Best Minds of Upper Class 
Should Lead Extra Activities
Colleges Should Train Students to Become Adults; 
Not Set Up Bonds Which Will Take IfO to 30 
Years To Break Down Says Dean Amos
Amos, dean of University of Pittsburgh, flrst part of her
t theThe ech appear- week's issue of the Tartan.* I want to ask some significant questions: if what we do in extracurricular activities has no more significance than .that which
ties up the origin of bituminous c&al, crude oil, gas, and phalt. All. of these. Dr. Berl thinks, are--derrived mainly from cellulose and are produced by similar treatment, the product, depending on the relative amounts of cel
lulose used.Dr. Berls work also disproved mother old theorythat lignin, and not cellulose,'was the active base of bituminous coal. He found lignln, the other plant compocellulose products. He . is of the opinion that the laboratory conditions had to be amplified in order to produce products in a few hours
doeB It af- freedom?Who shall carry the responsibility of extra-curricular activities if they are going to be carried out on adult levels? They should he carried and swung by upper-class people and by. the best minds of the upper-class. If on your pusmen or wominyour
int of view that we will have extra-curricular activities unless they are run by the best minds We have to keep freshmen
the incoming student is a student
is found by the way hiB ideas gotten lu the classroom, and by the way he realizes those ideas on the campus. One of the trends is of the freshman Into the freshman year ...Make the freshman year (In
Former Student 
Exhibits Paintings
Gladys York 27 Shows Work 
In Munich, Germany^
Gladys York- 27, graduate of the Department of Painting and Decorating, was honored by having some'of her work placed on exhibition in the Art Association Building in Munich, Germany, October 16, 1934.After her graduation. Miss York was employed C New York by the Cheney Silk Company. She' gaVi up tho position and spent tw< years traveling around the world with her mother. At the end. of two years Miss -York settled in Paris where she studied for a year. She then returned to her home in York, Pennsylvania, and exhibited ail paintings in several cities. In 1931, Miei to Munich, and has ' id to the Unite' is now speciall and wood-carvlngs.
ity Scholarship Cup.
watch printing machinery being
tialltles enough to keep and to ... him further as an adult. Your eatra-currlcular activities are as is the Intelligence that is back of them. If you have to keep your eztra-curricular activities going by dragging in the freshmen, those organizations are not worthy, to be your campus. I say that absolutely unafraid, because I can support point after point by-proof through experience that It is true. " ' at fair to the freshman . . . in his approach to a new life. It Isnt fair to keep these activities always on the trial and error level. Should Study Organizations "So w'e have answered the flrst questli^nthe responsibility shall
hen the best minds get hold of the Y. W. C. A.., drama league, etc. You are immediately going to see higher standard of performance,
organization to find out whether it deserves to exist.How many studedts should have the advantage of the extra-curricular activities . . . ? The answer obviously that if these activities e worth anything at all, the der the spread the better, but i. spread so wide as to make
Cabinets Sponsor 
Discussion Series
Dr. Ewers Speaks at Firet 
Open Forum Meeting
Last night the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet inaugurated a new joint program by sponsoring an open meet- the Delta Upsilon fraternityMoreCarnegie men and women Interested In "student Christian problems were present.
Dr. .John R. Ewers, pastor of the East End Christian Church,- was the-guest 'speaker and discussion- leader. The subject treated In Dr. Ewers, address and further considered In the open forum discussion which followed was "Organization Super-control vs. Individual Self-Control." , 
Near the end of last year, the student Y. M. C. A. .and Y. W. C. A. Cabinets sponsored several, such meetings at the various homes ot the members ofv the Y. M. Committee of Management est was so keen and the ance so large that It was fear'.d that the meetings would have discontinued because of inadequate seating-capacity in the private homes. Several fraternity however, volunteered the
meetings will be continued. Those In attendane
Fraternity Council 
Elects New Sec.
William Agnew 16 Forced 
To' Submit Resignation
At the regular meeting of Inter-, 
fraternity Council last Saturday 
morning, Willlami Agnew 35, pres
ent secretary, handed In his resignation which was necessary because of his. being declared ineligible by the scholarship committee. James McNaughton 35, member ! Phi Kappa fraternity, was elect-  1 to succeed Mj. Agnew as secre- tary. >
The final date for the acceptance of the freshman rushing list, as
out by the council.
Write-ups for the interfraternity booklet muut be in the Y* office by 5 oclock today. This booklet will give a brief account of each traternitye history, members, and the high and low co6t of the fra- ternltles on this campus._______
it thin."
ing included the Committee 
Management and their wives, 
members of the student Cabinets, 
and other interested Carnegie stu
dents. Gwen Haddock *35 and Wil
liam H. Sharp 35, presidents of 
the Y. W. C. A. and Y. M. 
Cabinets respectively.charge of the* meeting. Light : servedthe
HIGGINS'I
 American
DRAWING INKS)
fifes
h i h M-A i" Tp
DeWitt A. Patterson, chairman of
ing .House Craftsmen; He will plain Gravure Printing. Following this lecture will be one on Offset Printing by Burt D. Stevens, who Is vice prsident of the Mlehle
Printing Indus- Mr. Wehmhoff is * the research director of the W. F. Hall Printing Company iu Chicago.
'will be captioned Officers Club. ^The checkroom will Dear the le- vgend Quartermasters Department.
[jySteplien LeamkTalks 
j At .General Assembly |
~ Continued From Pm 1 
-suffocated with laughter and gasp- v'-ing. for air. 
/ ^ Listed In Whos Who 
J Stephen Leacock is listed In
I? per Canada College, Toronto, and fe^tfien^tetided the -Univereityrof &-i?J!roroiito- where he majored In lan- I guagea In 1699 he took a course ^-v^politicalscience at: the Unlyer-I
- Chicago and then receivedvj'i.StellowBhlp at; McGill  University (apolitical: economy.. He received nt.Xtoctor.ot .Pb.!l.P*iojkT fi ; tn l903- He is head of the Depart- Smwit of Political Science and Eco- r - McGill University. .
rrw..^jLmoor-thfc' numerous books that ^M^hai^-wrltten  are "Moonbeams fS* t'ifimxthe*. Larger. Lunacy,.: 'Win- ^-MpeiiWinnie,
Applications for Rhodes 
Scholarships Are Due
that tlme will enter the University
arshlp Is fixed at 400 (
For a candidate to be eligible he must be . a male citizen of the United States and unmarried, must be between-the ages of nineteen
th6 state In wh!ch he-rccides cr -in the one In which he.has-received at least- .two years of his college ducation.Additional Information may .be secured from the Bureau ' of Recommendations. . -
STUDENTS
WANTEDFive hundred Typewriters, all makes, Portables and Standards, sold, rented, repaired. $3.00 one month, $10.00 five months.-
American Writing
Machine Company801 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlc 5488- See our School representative  DICK HAMMOND
. Free dancing lessons were offered to freshmen at Loyola Col-, lege: eo that no newcomer would
INDIAN
COACH LINES
Buses to all points
Pittsburgh Way Trip
vork S7.50 $13.50
Chicago... 8.50 15.30
eayainaa papr ntatr
Boston.... 10.00 18.00
and
all points from coast 
to coast.
For-further 
information call
:Ourt 9500
In the manufacture 
of Granger Rough Cut Pipe 
Tobacco the Wellman Process 
is used.
The Wellman Process is dif
ferent from any other process or 
method and we believe it gives 
more enjoyment to pipe smokers. 
... it gives the tobacco an ex
tra flavor and aroma 
, *. it makes the tobacco act 
right in a pipeburn 
slower and smoke cooler 
.. it makes the tobacco milder 
* . vii leaves a clemr ~dry ash 
no soggy residue or heel 
 in the pipe bowl ;
RLEES.. D NTSOH Y'AI' U'B
the pipe tobacco ^thats MILD 
the pipe tobacco thats COOL
JtJis setm to liie it
dorit ielteve I 
have used'a pipe cleaner 
in three' or four weeks
Granger leaves no gum in the bowl of my pipe or moisture in the stem. It burns down to a clean dry ash.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1934S 
THE 
TUESDAY 
QUARTERBACK 
0 
BY JERRY HANSON
Tartans Overthrow Violet Jinx by Single Score
Skibos Show 
Neiy Strength
N. Y. U. Threatens Plaid 
Goal Three Times
Revengeful Temple Eleven 
Ready For Tartan Attack
THE STAGE WAS SET IN NEW YORK with nature's best trimmings, 
and three major games enjoyed perfect football weather. But only fif
teen thousand showed up at the Yanke* Stadium for the Plald-Vlolet 
contest. For the entire week preceding the game the Big City news
papers failed to make a peep regarding the Tartan visit
Meanwhile oUr friends across Forbes Street have their coming op
ponents ballyhooed to the skies; and get a futl house for their efforts. 
It seen)6 to be a pretty sound Investment.
IT LOOKED FOR A WHILE as If the Skibo clansmen had learned how 
to fumblethey certainly covered some, ground that-a-way early in the 
game KC oily grid and a few well-placed punches did the tricknoth
ing really new for that field. You didn't hear WA kicking when the 
Plaid started, to roll up the flret downs, either. Some of the plays 
against the Violets actually looked tricky; 1C the nuiherous pass inter
ceptions hadnt taken place, and If the long drives down to scoring 
position had not been mode ineffectual through fumbles, one wouldn't 
liave recognized the Tartans.
New York University tallied more first downs than the Scots, spas
modically accomplishing rather thrilling gains through both the'air and 
i'llie line The Violet ability to launch the pass and the occasional 
[success it had in smashing through tackle were especially noticeable. 
I More people killed! One after another of the clansmen were put 
*out of circulation, because ot injuries, and the tans groaned with appre
hension as such os Lewis were helped off with limp, dragging limbs. 
Lewis suffered a wtenched leg, and was replaced by Moore, who in 
turn had one foot painfully spiked.
Chyznewski sprained a ligament in the shoulder, and will not be 
able to play until the Pitt game at .the earliest. Croft and Dolloway 
were bearing injuries from preceding weeks, and after glvhjp the usual 
brilliant display .of their wares, were forced to leave their positions in 
favor of Hall and Hudson. Vorderberg was pretty badly injuredan 
old wound.
WHAT WITH THE HARPSTER RANKS fast becoming depleted, and 
the Violets threatening the Plaid goal unto the last, the game certainly 
kept the crowd guessing, and more than once ye scribe wai 
admit to himself a 6llent dammejinxed again!"
But the Skibos had a few tricks.up their Jerseys. Willi 
was outstanding. Bill was good for nine yards every time on tt 
spinners. Sputzle Terebus played hie usual good game, and suffered 
jolt on the head for his efforts. Carlson did some fine blocking. J< 
Mlhm gave the signals throughout the four perlodi 
line In his own good style. Lehman played a fine i 
gave the- Carnegie stand*, an exhibition of will p' 
ces9 of having his thumb
MIHM CROSSES GOAL
Owls Out to Bring in 
First Victory Over 
Plaid Since 1930
Terebus, Spisak. Prominent 
For Plaid Aggregation
TarUns have finally man . overcome a hoodoo of long standingthat of an inevitable de- by teams of N. Y. U. On their field, Saturday, the Violets
In most cases, the Carnegie representatives have been favored to but the New York U. outfits always overcome this edge
i'uch sought-after portion ol the pork. In one of the hardest- lought games which Carneple fan? have witnessed this season, the Tar- by the low but neverthe
less Builiclent score of 50.
Demonstrate Power Maestro Harpstere protegee showed more power in taking the fighting Violets than they previously demiyear. There v
:ed so far this more coordination the line and backfleld, aud greater percentage of plays were good for more, yardage than in any other game this reason.The Tartan's
:ed to
nd backed up th< 
again. He also 
during the prolowly pulled out' of his wrist.
YOUR FAITHFUL CORRESPONDENT made the trip with an excep
tionally enthusiastic Plaid band, chaperoned by the inevitable Sully and 
his chaimlng wife. The entire crowd enjoyed the hospitality of the 
Pennsylvania until Saturday evening. New York curb stock 
two hundred per cent. The Hollywood Restaurant made money and 
many friends. The band is going to start a Frances Langford Boos 
Club at Carnegiethere should be no end of ardent followers. Some
how, in the face of odds,, yellers Gischel, Provost, and Obeller were 
able to save themselves for the game..The team klnda wanted to play around with the oval in the Manhattan .Room. of the New. Yorker. Several of the. grldders played 
charades'The Sidewalks of New Yorkuntil late Saturday night.
Yefif IOS JUST THREE PLENTY TOUGH games left  *u 
tan. schedule. The worst will probably be 
will know Just how to handle the Plaid, of 
the Panther will not 
will run up tho scoi
Vejnpte upset Holy Cross rather prettily, so we know what ti 
from the Warner-coached aaareiatlon. The tattered Plaid will do 
well ti hold the Templeltes down to two touchdowns, piethlnks. It 
uldibe asking to. much to hope th'at the men who have P'sy 
indlng oames during the last few contests get together for a little 
rprlse party this next week-endIf they could, the si
only touchdowD the second period, after a completed pass put them in a position to score. Joe Mlhm carried ;he ball over the last chalk mark from the nine-yard line, plunge _Mihm also tried tor the xtra point, but failed.Fumbles Prove Jinx The N. Y. U. outfit threatened the Plaid goal three different times, and each time it looked as if a scu: ould not he averted. However, fumble end two Intercepted passes
most- Impressive of these attempts lo score came in the last quarter when they completed three forward pasBea which were good for 76 yards and which placed the ball the six-yard line. The next play 
look the ball to the 3-. but on the next try, Machlowitz fumbled, and the" old pigskin recovered by the Tai ^ The fumble for both
ith Duquesni 
but we know that 
ae it might be. The Dukes, hi 
when they get a chance, and they are big and
>ry might be
Panthers Down Notre Dame; 
Dukes Conquer Bobcats, 39-6
Cily Teams Follow Owls 
On Plaid Schedule; 
Both Powerful
,AEst week-end was a banner-one Pittsburgh, each one of its three colleges registering victories to carry tlie city on to football honors. After the Temple fracas this coming Saturday, the Tartans only opponents will he these two rivals for the city, championship.
Duquesne is the first to he met v/ tin! Plaid. This team has a fine record and has.added to it a victory over West' "Virginia Wesleyan The Dukes had little trouble with the team that defeated N. Y. U. in spite of the much lauded Len Barmmi, who played a fine game all evening. The Night JUd- era attack, which has been 1m proving as the season progresses, 
clicked smoothly.Pitt also accounted fcr tUeie irell in its encounter with^he^lrish 
f Notre Dame.
New Soccer Team 
Loses Game Here
Lack of Experience Causes 
Defeat by Deaf School
Carnegies fledgeling soccer squad suffered defeat to the tune of 3-0 at the hands of a speedy team at the Western Pennsylvania, School for the Deaf last Friday.  The Carnegie hooters were literally run. off their feet.
The Arst score was a freak made at the end of the first halt. Tho ball, rolling toward the cor
ner of the goal, hit a
na.de In the second half on hard close shots. Tech did not even threaten and only1 one weak shot was made at the goal.
The team Is not disheartened tlie game was really only the third tlnie .the whole team haa been gether, \fhile the other team has been \playing together for five years.'-The game, showed up Ca>*- negies.;;weak points and her ineiperierfte. .
Th^- who plfcyed were: Kissel,  Ca.])l.~-go&5i Covniiig and Higgins tulljjackB, D Pendleton, Oiolma, and Reidhalfbacks, and Carlson, Uavi& prendes, Lalli, J. Pendleton -forwards. Substitutes were Sweeney and De Lorenzo. " 
Toda^ at a.45 the Carnegie team plays Slippery..-Rock 'State: Teach: era College : oh "the home field, by Woodlawn.
Relinge oCnnlguc
________ after the ball had beeidriven down to the N. Y. U. five- var'd line, on lour first downs,Ihe critical moment a tumble recovered by an N. Y. U. player the touchdown drive together,.the Carnegie.,., a total of eight fumbles.Deserved Victory .The Tartans deserved the vl< tory, for they truthfully outplayed the Violets even though .they made only 14 first downs to their opponents IB. The advantage on first downs went to the Violets largely because they were ' successful In completing eight were good for 135 : mage, the Plaid gained the advantage by making 203 yards conipared to 128. Ano.thef--men able point is that the Skibos m aged to stay away from their 1 years penalty jinx and only ran Into' it three times for a. total of 15 yards lost, while the Violets lost 35 yards on a similar number of penalties.Terebus and Bill Splsak the outstanding players for the Tartans... Terebus lived up to his reputation, and in the first 
ran I playeisecond nan Dy 'nnLA . rled on the good work and played one of the best games he has ever played under the banner, of Car
negie. j_______________
Tartan Harriers 
Meet Competition
Varsity, Plcbea See Action; 
Giolma, Pinkerton Star
Every dog has his day and wheu ihe Tartan footballers journey to Philadelphia next week to meet the Temple Owls. Pop Warner hopes to have his. Mr. Warner ything agaiust Carnegie until last season. At this tioie be taA just beginning what appeared to be a bang-up season
the 1:.25-0.The Temple team has never bealL Carnegie since the series Btart- sd back in 1930. At first the Cher- nd White was considered something of a set-up for Tech and
l yar he nguin became a orn in the side with a 19-13 count.1932 the Owls decided* to stop is sort of thing and showed pow- in holding the Plaid aggregaci to a 7-7 tie.This year the owls are making clr most Impressive threat. They ime to the front of the Bmull college competition this year with an impressive record. Temple has defeated a strong West Virginia outfit, tied.Indiana, scored twice ovor Holy Cross, and romped through a not-so-weak Marquette eleven.The Tartans, on the other haud, e quite aware of this determina
Owl outfit. Howevor, the Tartans C the ill face tho rejuvenated Temple squad with a determination that the score should a evened. Tho Plaid ovor- ihe N. Y. U. jinx, now, will Tempi be able to laugh at the Tar- hoodoo next Saturday? .
Pill-Tech Tickets
Thanksgiving, ;
the Graduate Manager's ofdent Book and 50 cents.
most picturesRiflemen Improve 
During Practice
Leah Voeghtly Now Coachcs 
Freshman Girls* Squad *
coming season with practice scores looking better every day. Though this weeks scores are Increased over the totuls previously hot this year, the team is not yet up to competition calibre. However, with consistent practice. Sergeaut Sommer* should be able to put. n team on the range that will equal the feats or last years championship squad.The womens varsity team is asked to report at range tomorrow afternoon at 3:30 to have their pictures taken. So far this year, tho women have been rather slow in turning out for the practice. The
Miss Leah Voeghtly.on tho Carnegie wi , is assisting in Ui
Pop Warner, The Man Who Makes 
National Champions of Grid Outfits
! In the Temple-Tech fracas next 
week, the Carnegie grldders will 
l>e facing', not only the wise old 
Owls, but the Wily Fox of Foothall, Pop Warner.1 This coach, 
famous throughout the football 
world, has made grldlvou history 
It is n granted fact that he is one 
of the most colorful, spectaculur showmen in tue game. Moreover, he Is uu expert In his Held un<l knows how to teach the game with effectiveness and instill his own personal tiro Into his men.His history is widely know n. He is, outside of A. A. Stngg, tho
coaching.of the squad. Candidates for the team are reminded tlml they are oxpected to get in at lensi two practices a week.
the world famous Jim Thorpe as captain, became national, chnrn - plons. In 1916, Pitt, with an eye. to football Tor publicity, hired-tho- Old Fox and. in his seven- y.earaturn out football teams for them-.- Ho led theso men to several Rose Bowl victories and again turned'
resigned the position at Stanford lost year to go to .Temple nt Philadelphia. There, with little mo- lerial, he turned out. a falr-boll' club in his first year This yett* he hus continued, building up hle squud, pointing for a championship year in 1935. From his iIt looks like this proft might be  fulfilled 9 laurels for Pop.
SOCIOLOGY 15 THE SCIENCE OF SOCIETY  PLATO AND ARISTOTLE ^PARTICULARLY , WERE THE FATHERS
THE CONTENTS OF THE HUMAN 
MIND HAVE ULTIMATE RELATIONS TO THE GOVERNING PRINCIPLES OF THE /S' 5CIENCE OF 50CIAL EVOLUTION/"^! AND 50 FORTH 
THERE IS A DEFINITE TREND IN SOCIETY, TOWARD A BETTER 
Mei 5MOKING TOBACCO AND THE REASON IS v "NO-BITE'1 , PRINCE ALBERT/
AFTER EVERY CLASS 
IT RINGS THE BELL!
. IS not only top-quality tobaccos 
that make Prince Albert the finest smoking tobacco you 
have ever tried  in addition, these choice tobaccos aru 
blendcd by a secret method and then treated by a special 
proccss which absolutely removes all the bite, You'll 
enjoy this mellow smoke full of rich, smooth Havorl
 THE NATIONAL JOY SMOKE!
opponents
. RECREATION
Uae. your^apare time, for- I  recreation but' dont take. 1 ;lQlng.
.through .the park. ..Frsh! air- and sunshine^free gifts'of nature: Hav you had OnfsT ...yf ;.-V;BUT' dont eierciae too hard. or'ftoln'g^o\the!'I^lasting fatigues
The - Panthers' was primed for the 
JT Thanksgiving, day proved themselvesw^thy'ofb.eliigcalled^the^^st
Laydens -----worked hard but could not stem the tide- that, finally registered - 
total ot 19-lf against-them; ~
Will Broadcast 
Temple Bail fiame
tlon of- the - Caxnegie-Temple . football game to be played at Philadelphia, Saturday. The 'broadcast will begin at. 2:00 p. m. at the Brown House.
The Grld^Graph football, playing hoard will be. set up. making it possible to see as well as hear, the gome. A. pick-up station will be lo- - csted-upoa-: the. propej.ty..?.nd. a system ;of-amplifiers is now 
.being' Installed...,  
i There yill be refreshments  betweenthe-halves.- Arty student'-Interested in following. thev'fortunes ot the. team is 'inylted to be present
results. 'On last Tuesday the teams from- Allderdlce and Schenley visitedthe Schenley Park course from  trlagular meet Pinkerton, thw rangy plebe from upstate New York took the honors with a decisive .win, and Lynghoim, Edgewood runner, also showed form worthy 
of notice.
Saturday, Tech played host to the outstanding harriers In this district. when approximately fifty men entered in the junior championship held on xthe Schenley course. Those who competed were from the Pitt plebe squad, the Pitt reserves, Techs varsity, and stars from th Pittsburgh area. Giolma had -little trouble in defeating tho field; while Babin Koch, and McMahon made satisfactory showings. McMahon has come a long way since .flret reporting for cross country, and consistently  turns in
mainstay on the X-country team, 
band.
New York with the- Kiltie
.'with the Tartan - varsity. Coaeh.SBalfertF refU6es.to he optimistic and gives. Tech an ...even break for-a win. Meanwhile the plebea are getting plebty of action;
:_for^ .a trl-Westinghouse high and Peabody yesterday; *  
lingular meet.
. Kentucky mountain . women^walk thirty miles of steep roclcy' mountain roads- to attend'achool.-ind barter sorghum, lasset slabs of - bacon,- and other produce .to. pay. for tlilr education.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1934
I 3Tl\c Carnegie Tartm
PBONE  MAYFLOWER : After Office Uoura Cal 
BdltoMa-CUtf--------------------
EtflMP-QUjJ_
FEATURE. EDITORS :  
COPY. EDITOR: Roth (_JPY EDITO!HEAD EDITORI 
JUNIOR EDITORS:Ev&OB ChAaua. uri, -----Bc oIp M^ijTwr.^LJord Mersanthftler,
. JtBPOBTBRS: Toby Croi, Emily Kramer rAv.B AJobA BlucV, Lewis Brlocr, DoUi  Lola Horaer, William Lord. Alberta ' Adelild* luminatoli. Henry Hyahaa<*, I Schidbcla. Albert Schwartz. John Shea
[ollljnin, AdiilsonSPORTS STATT:
BUSINESS STAFFs^Joe K'CB
Layton Keith McuUheon, Donald 1
Weetennan. 
TYPISTS: Cotherlni 
Villini: Whaley 
CTFT ARTISTS:* Robert Boblnon.
ies. . However, Jt-js clakned that much of-thismoney and opportunity Is railing, by the wayThe situation today is that thousands ol peo
ple arc looking for careers, and thousands of 
careers are being overlooked. It Is, of course, 
true that some, require certain qualifications 
that everyone can not fill, but, on the other 
hand, tbere are many in this vast country who 
can aDd gladly -will fulfill the terms If they are 
only told. Let us give a few examples of this.
"The University of West Virginia always 
has an opening for . the possessor of a good 
tenor voice. Washington and Jefferson offers 
free education to a grandson-of a member of 
the United States Naval Academy, class of 
'68. Worcester Polytechnic offers $000 to a 
student who can prove Yankee Ingenuity.1 
The Captain Craig Woodrow MacDonald Fel
lowship offers money at Virginia to any near 
or blood relative of the Captain,, who was kill
ed at Cold Harbor in the War between the 
States. Mississippi has money for any lineal 
descerdant of a Confederate soldier.
These are not even a, handful of the hun 
dreds of euch opportunities with no harder 
qualifications. This is one way to help solve 
the vocational problem. It certainly deserves 
your attention.
DE
The Decision Reels Wilh YouW
HEN the TaYlan Poll is completed we 
shall know definitely whether the stu
dents. desire a Clock Tower on the campus or 
not The only motive in conducting this poll 
is to give the student body the opportunity of 
making the decision for ILself in the matter, 
inasmuch as the erecting of the Tower would 
be a student project requiring student funds 
and student labor. *
It was felt that Student Council, while they 
may or may not have carried out the wishes 
of the student body In voting down the Clock
- Tower, did not take sufficient action to ascer
tain what the wishes of the student body were
and had'proceeded mainly upon the ASSUMP. TION that the project was an unpopular one. 
The Tartan acts in an entirely neutral ca
pacity ;In the matter. While it la well known 
V-that list years editorial board strongly ad
vocated the Clock Tower, this year'B board 
neither, advocates or opposes the project. The 
-paper merely presents the facts concerning the 
Towr ^as they are and will do nothing to pre; Judice an opinion In either direction. It only 
 urge that each student weigh ALL the facts
- arefully before he reaches a decision.
An Orchid to You, Delta Skull
ELTA SKULL did a fine thing at its last 
meeting.
Realizing that the honorary fraternities 
were becoming no longer honoraries but polit
ical tools in the hands of a select group of 
social fraternities, De.ta Skull set out bravely 
to eliminate this evil. After much discussion 
it was decided that any man who considered 
himself eligible for Delta Skull might submit 
his name, together wilh his qualifications to 
Delta Skull and receive consideration.
No longer will a man be elected into this 
honorary just because his fraternity brother Is 
a member. Now every one will have a fair 
chance.'
It seems as though there were a few UNembers of Della Skull who besn should be chosen by a point 
in would receive points for each 
is and Tor scholarship, the num: upon the relative importance 
of Ihe activity. Those earning the greatest 
number of points would be extended bids to 
join Delta Skull. This brought a storm ot 
"righteous" indignation from the majority,of 
the group. "How could any-one dare to ques
tion the unimpeachable honesty of 4be organ
ization to such a degree as to take from its 
members hands the right to choose their sueTo this storm of 'righteous indignation 
may we add one word of comment?
' RASPBERRIES.
Writers Row
TRUSTING : 
lieved that n 
system. A n 
of his activll 
dependir
Is Brown House the Answer ?
Ijif' >!HE possibility of procuring an Activities 
J. Bultding Jor the campus In the.near future 
?(! Increases greatly with the -suggestion that the 
|l....Brown House be used for this purpose.. 
it|t- 5 That such a building is needed Is proved by 
& a great many conditions on the campus. At. testing to It Is the hopelessly Inadequate "Y 
.Club Room which Is used only by College or 
Si-ja Engineering students as a place to gather for 
jflv-study or relaxation. Add to that a ping-pong 
iiv room hidden away in an obscure corner of the 
rivj. Industries basement, so removed that the ma \ Jorlty of the-students are totally unaware of 
fii-f Its existence. Scobell Halls Game Room, 
sil^'-.whlch Is used mainly by Scobell Hall men, Is 
^'^a. feeble attempt to provide for the Dorm men 
[. / 'wh&t tie Activities Building would contain.
; : ^ Activities crowding their headquarters into
i'i 7 : the small VY and Student Council offices or 
[.$ utilising the . bulletin boards without benefit 
pii - of- an office at all provide further testimony.
when you have students sprawled on the 
jjjS ;teps in the Arts School or trying to study in 
the eating places on the campus, it is high 
 time  that something were done/
'' The BrowaHouse Is the most feasible solutlon that has been presented. Selling the idea 
Ji-M-. oi. an Actlvltl&j-Bullding to the students is not 
problem.its obvious advantages are too 
it. Now Is the time for action to push the 
project forward, and if In the further developIt Is discovered that student help is re
ed, it must be felt that that help can be 
ited upon:.. >
STUDENT PEACE MOVEMENTS......
Since the end of the World War greater 
efforts have been made to advance the  
cause of permanent peace than at any 
other time in the history of the world. 
One phase of the growing spirit of paci
fism is apparent on the campuses of Amer
ican and European universities in the 
form of student pacifist societies. More 
and more in the last few years college stu
dents have organized into groups-united; 
by a common determination to refuse to 
bear arms in any offensive war tb'eir countries may undertake. Such groups are of' imposed of sincere n who have reached ar. is utterly- futile, tselves- to prevent a repetition of the World 'War when they are in responsible positions, and those composed of young people, bored with routine and a comfortable existence, who' seek an outlet for their energies by defy- - ing all established authority in uncertain, puerileefforts jo transform the world into a Utopia, over night. The former group, unfortunately, are .in the minority.
England and the United States -have''
far as she must maintain an enormous army to administer her widely-scattered' colonies. But, among the major countries of the world, these two are the only ones who do not have compulsory military training. Every young Frenchman at the age of twenty-one must t
th|riruled by dictators whose power rests iu< their military support, service in the'Srmy for varied terms is mandatory upon every
taught to believe that the greatest honor that can fall to them is to die on the battlefield fighting for the emperor. In such intensely militaristic nations Jt is difficult
people themselves seem to .welcome army service. But, certainly, even the most ardent patriots cannot look forward with any amount of enthusiasm to being- blown to bits by a shell.
-The recent munitions investigation in Washington proved that most recent i
On Second 
Thougnt
Dudley D, Pendleton, Jr.
I dedicate this column to an- verlng a statement from the pen of Arthur Brisbane; Hearst column- who feels along with thousands readers who are unfortunately influenced by his persistence, thut illonal security may be had, only through a continuation of our policies of maintaining the largest possible war machine.
The statement to which 1 refer is bis answer to the. question, Will >u support the reduction ofnents and ad'ate practical subIhough be
By Charles Parker Hammond 
At the height of the college football season, it's a brave and brazen commentator who -attempts' a-weekly, survey of foreign affairs for the undergraduate press. Lets begin with-an old-fashioned attack on the press of our elders and bettersthe commercial press,' which made plenty of money out of the recent royalassassination .
Opportunities
,WE:.OF THE Nations leading-magazines, 
just published an article concerning the 
i; future' of - the. American - college student 
: This; article should start, If he has not already 
.started, .every college student to seriously cont.r elder-his future.
' j.V.'..Today the younger generation finds the 
% ;. jbbBjthat, they thought would be theirs have 
already, been taken and firmly held by their 
i'::-veldersr whose prospect of retirement at any 
has -long.,since passed from their minds, 
thlsi.is not the case, the youthful American 
may .find. that the position he once hoped to 
. flU.Is^n.O;longer, existing. Fewer and fewer 
53^' demandfl^for inow. blood have some about for 
~~-;the' ^lg;6hots-* are. sharpeqins their-own- pea-- 
/i!Vv cila, iSaLing. their own letters,- and wondering 
how j; muchlonger this will/ continue. Few 
^i ^ii^^Bito.want to" take in a lot of men a'nd let 
their-way-.to the top of- the ladder, 
j lot the ladder is already so shaky that many 
i'Uv questIons ,lf it can hold /another .ounce of
f|U weight.
a^^Nl'Vocatfonal counsellors the world over; have 
Kgg^beenTW^Rylng, about this, problemand protfevducIa^jemaTkably fiftfe. oy way- ot solution. 
ip^Bvensthe genial Dr Pitkin of optimistic fame 
^.f U. itBJnpfd--hls best advlce to the young beget It!' ' -Get wbat? 
|!k>.ui*f4si)ageneration asks. This department 
^>'Maj"ilie^nswt:'Get.a..scholarship?-:
^ back  whep;. there were, many beDSTolent alumni, who had something to be 
benevolent with: they gave millions of-.dollars 
to thejf^belpved Alma Mater or the founda- * ' rtf fund^or scholarships and fellowships.
of this money Is capable of.supri
Marseilles. How many additional papers the publishers sold by dressing up their extra with war-scare-in-Europft streamers would be difficult to figure. But ani competent newspaper man will vouch for thi
wspapers would print after the figlUln
But at this writing there is i ropeonly a serious and menacing economic war that succeeded the 1914-18 disaster. Still, the possibilities are there, although the situation is> not as imminent as the yellow press
Almost a Second Sarajevo In the first place, it wasnt an Italian shot King Alexander I and Barthou. If the asPatrle.
Since the assassin obviously was a Balkan nationalist, whether a Hungarian, a Macedonian or a Croat, the shooting merely" reflected a2tl-Alejtander feeling wJtbln the bordei
report, that, report all too often express self as the report of a pistol. To draw a journalistic analogy between Marseilles and the Sarajevo murder, ia hardly warranted. Our elders and betters are hereby severely reprimanded for their crass commercialism. Apparently they crave circulation rather than  accuracy;which ie hardly excusable considering the heavy news weeks we have had. What with the textile strike, the Lindbergh story, the Stoll kidnaping, the drought, and the Morro Castle fire, to mention but a few of the stories that have shot the news market higher than it has.been In many months. -
European Line-up Is Serious This Is-not to underestimate the seriousness of the European line-up, however. Jean-Louis - Bartlo>Jy one of France's.most effective statesmen since the war, at 6eventy-two was .about to realize his dream of an Eastern Locarno a sorles of ' interlocking pacte that would strengthen France's alliances In. Eastern .Europe and further, bottle Up Nazi Germany within the limits of the Versailles Treaty. Whether his successor in the cabinet, Pierre Lavat, will continue to pursue Barthous policy of. no disarmament without security, and rigid main:- tnanc of the status quo.in Europe, remains' 'to. be 6een.. The policies of the'French for: elgn office! will have. much to do with the lm- mediate: future;of Europe: tsllni had-just about decidedto' promulgate a new Franco- Ilalian pact, the: first'since the war. Barthou had hoped to .bring about ah Italo-Yugoslavian agreement to stave.off possible trouble from 
Hitler. ' '
skeptical of the.-iability of. the pew 'align- ,ment of- powers : (including Great Britain on the side of France), to keep the peace. They- :predlct;wajr.in Europe .by 1935. .
Arms Manufacturers Not Guilty ' ^All of wh ich- bringa us* back to.' the munitions -plp4'1n the -last JsBUe of Horizon.: There are
selves in any sort of a c
viously'then. one. of the first steps towards outlawing war woirtd be to clean up politics. ' Unlike young people in other
bllity In-mind of a career in that field. Students of most other nations, on the other hand, take a vital, active interest In their governments, and they have been a significant force,in the numerous .political/ upheavals which have occurred in all partfiif of the world in- the last few years. Such^ a situation would be improbable, if not im- taken very seriously in the United States.:Student peace movements have.not.been . possible in the United States today; because American students are not suffi-, ciently interested to -discuss politics Intelligently, and to prepare themselves to improve them when they are in a position to do so. It would seem more to the point for young pacifists to attack one of the chicf causes of war at Its source, rather thn to tAlk so much about not fighting if and when war comes.
College authorities ignore pacifist orators on the campus unless they become a little too flagrant In their defiance of authority. The periodic attacks on the Reserve Offlbecome the principal target for the ineffectual attacks of the. predominant type of college pacifist The wild, exhortations 'of these youthful orators of the soap-box variety, in most cases, serve only to drive
ot compulsory military service. War, if it should come, would be the only-real-test of the sincerity-of student pacifist organiair and unde destroy the ithe tothe popula- id the shipping of any nation on earth.
A Poisonous Indictment What an indictment this poisonous statement is to a civilization which is supposed to' have lifted tself mentally, morally and socialcial organization in which all, can e peacefully but a machine werful enough to wipe all others
Has any practical substitute war-ever been given a real : has the policy of'-bTng
he United States rnred- for the last war, -but what ;lec does this imply except that if t had been ready, the sam<)er of people would have be id in a little less time.
Security Only Relativ "We have only now begun dimly .o pcrcelve/, said Devere Allensnt address, "that whea any
Evi
unquestionably
different from other hu- i who would assuredly do the : lhlngr that if we could se our defenses to the point e we could challenge any in- r, our torrlLories should be
yvr Japan is preparing todemand..parity .with'Great Brit- lain and . the United States at the coming Naval conference and another armament race looms on the horizon. Wherein we can possl- )ly. be making ourselves more se- ure by Increasing our armaments vhen the very thing we are doing an be. done equally well by other nations?Only Solution Is DisarmamentThe only solution to the problem s disarmamentnot just scrapping t few obsolete ships, but scAippjng .he whole war machine. Since the var machine  and its companion, he arms industry, are products of )ur present civilization, the struggle is bound to be hard and. the
be idle and await aew day. They can for the emation- k for re- irmaments and
who . do not feel an inclination Sincere codaciertticus' objectors lerned in detention caiups for the
to tight, 
duration
of citizens to a fever of patriotism, and, only the deepest, of. convictions can withstand the onslaught of. adverse public, opinion. It is probable that a great manyi ot the more bombastic pacifists might find a war an equally attractive opportunity for giving vent to their exccss energies now
untiring efforts to establish peace a
who subordinate their convlc* j to their Incessant self-dramatization;CAROLYN-A. HERRON?'-;
declared he had never attended a Disarmament. Conferenceand he hai attended all those in the post-war periodwhich -he believed had
not Str Basil Zaharoff, created tbe Polish Cor-, rldor, Mb. pointed out. Nor were the munitions makers responsible for applying tbfe-crid- clple of self-determination to the Danublan
Poincare,; Lloyd George,. Wilson, Clemenceau these -wcre-tho -men -who-reeaot the Q.p'-of- Europe, \ihich- Is such a mess today. "It is what the people eu masse accept as their the -rights of. their countries.
make war, said Mr. Simonds.
In the; munitions piece it was pointed out that- the Senate, investigation of the. arms in- only incidental to the Job of gettingdustry iat the causes of i opinion, against \If it ci influence-public.and the sources of. rather, hopeless objective' In the present .der-of'society,-w have, to confess-ff we- not to.he dIsmissed\afl ridiculous romantics^- it: wlU'ibegin to get at.the root of ihe.matter:
iional liini back all treaties 
avoid - competition in arms; they :aa oppose nationalism and chauvinism whenever they show themselves, in tbe press, in the schools, in the lecture platform; they can strive to bring order into the haotic economic and political coalitions of the world.
Greek Notes
Alpha Phi Delta Alpha Phi Delta will be hosts to the Grand Officers of the fraternity at a meeting on Friday evening.Beta Sigma Rho 'A tea for all plebe girls of the Jewish faith \vill -be held at the Beta Sigma Rho house at four oclock on Saturday. An invitation has.been extended to Dean Green to act as chaperon.Delta Upsilon - Delta Upsilon entertained members of all the fraternities and members of the faculty arid their wives at an open house last Saturday. The function wa& in commemoration of the one-hundredth birthday, of the Delta. Upsilon fra-terjiiiy.:. . ........................ .... .
.The house also acted as. host to the VY cabinet at their regular .meeting last' night.Sigma Alpha Epsilon The alumni of Sigma Alpha Ep.
smoker. Six members of th Pur due chapter were .entertained dur- .Ing- the. Homecoming-week-end.
A new course to be added tc curriculum ia chess. Itseems that this ancient sport Is a compulsory subject in . Soviet Russia.Northwestern Review.
panzee* showed liy test that he i as~-)nt6l;igent as . two flve-vear-old children. 1 he children used were sons of the professors.Tomahawk.
SAFETY FIRST . . . Tommy Dana, after the picture of his gal 
rlgged_up.jas. an honorary major was printed last week, salvaged 
a portrait of the femme-from tbe attic and labeled it Private. 
Which was a very demotional gesture, I sez.
NICE WORK . . . Regis Joyce. A. T. O____Dragon . . . Dramat,
is on his way to Broadways glittering mazdas. Hes been ex
tended an attractive part -in Lenore Ulrich's next play. Regie 
has been- in stock company offerings for about three years and 
his histrionic efforts have aroused no.little comment among-mat' inee habitues. ' Although Charlie Danver, local journalistic tellall, scooped us on tbe story of Joyces rise, it's good enough to 
bear repeating.
SCALLIONS GALORE ... A bouquet or dainty sunflowers is 
tossed at the Military Department (with the brick cleverly camou
flaged) for buying a large part of the new ROTC equipment 
from France, Germany, and England. Their current motto is ap
parently, Buy American ... by and by.
.GIVE US A LAUGH, GEORGIE . Georgie Rial, Greensburgs 
gift to femininity, has been doing a lot of high-powered back- slapping and handshaking in order to rate an invite to Hamilton, 
Canada, for the Xmas-Holid&ys. Responsibility for the untoward 
actions of this adonis lies principally and entirely with a cousin 
of Dick Sberman who is carrying bn the family name at Tech. 
We hope the woman in the case will not get-.rlaled at us, but she 
should realize that love Isn't a secret while there: are Hobos, 
around to meddle. ' . . -
TRY MATRIMONY . . . Bordering'closely on the. age-old prob
lem of how two can !ve as- cheaply as one, Frank Snyder and 
his heart-problem, Polly Rolls, were detected in a cozy corner of : 
the campus trying to figure how they could: manipulate- flfteenbucks to lake them both to the Temple grid fracas next Satur
day. Frank has transferred to the engineering department for a 
course in advanced math in.order to solve the dilemma. '
. FUMBLE . . . Dodo Doloway, who has nevec had to catch for-, 
ward passes on account.of he is a tackle and not an end, now 
-wishes that Harpy h^d given him a little coaching in the other 
department of the game. Cliff was on the receiving end of a 
glass of punch Sunday afternoon at one of the gals dorms, hut 
fumbled for a loss. He never had a scoring chance after*that 
point.
The Beta-Sig house was taken by storm the other night when 
a number of Hallowe'en merrymakers barged in without even a 
note of warning. When the storm of battle cleared, missing was' 
10 pumpkins- . 4 . one basket of assorted nuts . . -. -one old ac
cordion . . . two actives^ Wonder which they will miss the
Well, I guess~Its time to go,
(Who's a eo-called so and so?).
I'm no hand. at writing verso 
And my prose isieven worse.
More and more as time goes by 
You grow bored and so- do I.
We have had enough of this
Lets declare an armistice.
Plebe Stem has complained that he is not getting enough 
publicity. We are herewith obliging his excellency by putting his 
illustrious name in print.. STERN . . . STERN . . . STERN . . 
STERN. - -
On-Other
Campuses
Syracuse University (M.CEA). That UmiFord.is still as/popular a' campus vehicle as it was in the* days when it was known as Liz--- wKen'the 'University;
Mr.-
lito registration showed t'bat of 480 registered, 200 were Fords product,; ^
York University (McfiA)_The Ni-'Y. U: Athletic Association Discounts Boo) wer-i-OBce-sscrcd' lu this- university:-.rbecause tLo: teams, were great.. But .last week! aine the disillusionment. Several' students were'found in front ofODe of the buildings,  tossing- coins; -wever,. the stakes were.not coina- money. The boys were tossing for A. A, books, one at a. throw.
Syracuse University (MCE*' Refusing to affiliate herselr with- it. O. T. C., Pearl* J: meDs editor of theDoiiv o>-on?e'i 
led quite, .a sensation, in " tbe litary offices^ when  eh* tnr>.U(] .vn the sponsorship which w; offered her. A sponsoriihip in'n.i- military corps is regarded at-Syra-1
New. York University .(MCEA) Coach Marvin A. (Mal'), Stevens' homier Yale leader, has' devised a scheme unique In N. Y. U.-for foot- >all skull practice.- He has motion- pictures taken each Saturdnv <><. ernoon of the game, and driDtr th following week, ha&' them ffnchori- in a screen before his' ientlre mm* The -complete game; is n
thereafter; if the coaches^ tiecide. that- a .play is only Talr,' more practice ie:called for; .flnal^, -If the play Is bad, It is.oith.er iqodifled or discarded 'altogether.
Syracuse 'Ulilvereity (MCEA) Armed- : with  bags 6f -fiour.: 2l)0 Jresbmen .-charged a-.sraall.gnard of 00 sophomores, -and-, won- avplDth consecutive victory for. the .eo*-' classmen,' who, each year,
"Syracuse University n0t a- match-making factory, but It-does offer a solution to the problem of loneliness among students, saya one co-ed commenting oil; the advisability of a studnt date-bnreau."  Rather than rely on tbis-.system of blind, dates, she. suggests that students' make use of :the open house meeting held' bi* Suhda aft-1 ernodn - where students -can! pick: out their own friends.' ....
/,S;1.v*x*Uy' 01 il(MCluA)In .. . a-, . special, interview with" the Dally Pennsylvanian, Up- ton Sinclair, gubernatorial candidate in- California:; - urged :'staiieTitg to prepare .for the-world- by ^SGap- Ing.-.the . stultifying.:-, effects ,of literature ^courses and ,;jook out. upon the world of affaire nd1 ae' what Is going oirin ils'very midt:"-Mr. Sinclair sounded a note of' warning and of opportunity for college men: Under the present-insane economic system, which con* dones fierce competition; most of you college Tnen'wm^bftve^ to look' to- your laurels at. all-.times, .due .to .your -:apid displacement., by men rising from the ranks. I would'ad-' _vjse_tlie_ college world to look: out' upon the world of affairs and see what is going on. in.itsivery midst Five'years of economic dpression have debunked the minds ot millions of people and social-upheaval is now brewing. At no tlme.'ln the worlds history have we tad more need- for fresh viewpoints .from young minds, supple, and uncon,- taminated by the bias whi'ch..a generation of misrule h fostered. I think.-that every* student should be sensible enough to think'prblems out for himself,, regardless of wbat these problems, may be%
(Syracuse University (MCEA)Asserting that ------.-u.
should not L lawns, the - has started a campaign-'to prevent the R.. O. T. C. from drilling on the University - Lawn. The military corps, they eav, should confine Its parading to the athletic-field.  
. . (MCEA)A. .Frosch is: a iirtem- ber of the Freshman class of Temple! University. .... 
Who wouldnt prefer a cigarette thats 
easier on the throat
S Joan Blosmh. ui W,rner_BtvPitn, tfiAMES"
A*J

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN^ TUESDAY, NOVEMBERS, 193
AS YOU STROLL around the campus do the hearts of the coeds flatter like the first soft, gentle alarm of Big Ben" or do they bent more savagely like a tom- ' To secure the desired effect, .sn for A feeling of self satisfaction. we suggest the following
FOR A SWELL, all-around suit ou cant' beat .the smartly-fashioned dark gray tweed that we - roaming  around the campus. Its neatly woven check elves it a distinguished, yet rough * . ...... the
Justification
Discussed
of R.O.T.C
by Forum Group
and ready appearam coat has a yoke bact.-hnlt belt, bellows pockets, and snappy bone leather buttons. For a n"  coat this one tops the liweave, .cut, and shade render easllv adaptable for wear with contrasting trousers . . . it is Suet built for double duty and thus saves dad a few bucks. The .precision drape trousers which match: the coat are wide enough- to givo Ihe outfit the desired sporty aptrou6erG in a. harmonious lighter gray check pattern or finely woven plain gray flannel trousers pep up the outfit to perfection.
<nHG SUIT is iike a flhii) lost in a fog without an appropriate shirt and tie. Colorful plaids in cash
Prof. Cleton to Speak 
On War Psychology 
Next Thursday
Thursday.
Neal L. Vinson 35 once more led the discussion. Under present conditions, he said in. his brief -introductory talk, the United States is obligated to maintain a. good defense organization. Otherwise, if we failed to make military preparations, we would be exposing people' to a' possibility of losing their homes and perhaps their lives.
Another member of the group, Dudley Pendleton 35, countered with the statement that since a iplete defense is impossible, there is no need to consider ment for defense at all. le Bald that there Is no great value In carrying out an endless
Gambling on Football Game Results 
Spreading Like Wildfire in Colleges
____ id woolenswith attachedpointed collarshave the necessaaiy *  after all where would o Tech man be without his Scotch plaid? A tie of the same
of the shirC itself . . . they get along well togetherjust like old friends. We have noticed that button-down collars are  back and do they look elegant with a plaid or richly colored polnted-tip bow tie!. Take a look and you are sure to notice a goodly share of- brightly coloredstripe - knit ties .
ntial offense.
Mr. Vinson agreed that a nation cannot possibly prepare a defense to balance a possible offense, but he maintained that there is a very vital difference between a country with a well-organized military chine and one that completely taoks preparation.- 
; A member of the group' asked Mr. Vinson if a future war all probability .to be fought air, -what would be the necessity for soldiers, such as the R. O. T.
they really When you purchaV the newest in shirts don't-become absent minded and' forget that blend smoothly . trast not too strikingly with tho real of your outfit . . Just :lso some of the good taste that, very Camegian possesses.
YOU WOULDNT THINK of going to the Interfraternity Formal 
wearing high top hiking boots, don't  iio' guilty of spoiling your whole appearance by covering your i' of conveyance-feet to you i patent . leather evening or some other ridiculous pat- We scouted around the shop
ping district of the "Smoky .City and selected a: shoe' which Is so designed that it-, may be- used ;with semi-dress clothes as well as. sport cloths. It . Is reallr an attractive and catchy; patterns, . built for wear as well as looks, .'. ;. a, witae Cordovan calf (mahogany shade), high lustr, gentlemans shoesi
double
sole, straight Up without perfora tions, and light horn stitching - BOB AARON.
the protection of the government which wants to win the war." Mr. Vinson said that while no nation really won a war, the military ganlzatlons cannot be blamed for making.,wars. They
A brief discussion followed cerning the advisability of a i trys disarming completely, whether such a move would irisui safety from invasion. It was erally agreed that complete dieIt was necessary to find basis for international co-operation before there was any talk of disbanding the R. O. T. C. or disar Ing in any
By Irving Gruber 
During the post few weeks the 
ty dailies have disclosed the 
enormous amount of money wageri college football games. Al
though no positive statement can 
.be made, one paper esymaced the 
eekly amount or football wager
ing in New York alone to be above 
the $1,000,000 mark.
Carnegie, too, has its football 
gamblers. Since the Initial foot-v 
ball game of the- year, a football 
pool operated by a former Carne
gie student has attracted the In
terest of scores of students. How much mouey is wagered could riot be definitely discovered, but boys
Carneales Pool
The Carnegie pool lists from twelve to fifteen games per week.ie picks eight winning teams from the card, he Is paid fifty to >ne on his investment. If tho 'dopester picks - four winning teams, he is paid eight to one. Bets of five cents and more are acfar this pow oae been entire-' ly against the sucker, which is to be expected. The promoter, a. former engineering student, has figured the odds Just as accurately as an insurance company. Perhaps his study of the laws of probability has aided him.He devotes most of bis time to general gambling and picking games from all over the country for bis weekly card. The type of games which look ^o easy the beginning of the week and so tough late Saturday evening are the only
by not permitting those which are popular-selections main on the cani. -
The Detroil-Villanova tie saved him many dollars a few weeks ago. While the Holy Cross-Colgate upset a week and a half ago again pulled him through.
Odds Increased 
Last year a representative of a 
betting syndicate sponsored a pool 
here, similar to the present He paid-off each time until ThanksCritic Scores 
Informality As 
Nursery Trick
Says College Is Failure 
Unless It Develops 
Adult Outkwjk
Debating Union Bolds 
Next Meeting Thurs.
Resolved: That Democracy isThrough as a Form of Social Control Is the ' question to be discussed by the Womens. Debating Union at Its rogular meeting on Thursday, at 12:30 oclock In room
four winning.teams from
good United-States "paper with
tors for tips in their selection:
in their predictions, but it Is this feature which* makes betting so intriguing. Damon ' Runyon is. con* sidered by many to be the most precise picker. But expert opin- mean very little in modern
Dear Editor:I should like lo reepond to tho letter recently published in the Tarton regarding the ideal attitude Qf a member of the faculty and the bouquet!' that tAnHBhanded to him. His calling of students ' 'by" their first names is held up as an ideal method of creating friendliness. For my part I regard this practice as suitable to kindergarten and prep school. Not to college. 1 resent it as a slur upon my manhood. If I read history aright, American males' of eighteen were exchanging shots with German avl- ators'and serving as lieutenants in the United States army before the war closed. This I submit was adnl,t work. But that -was in 1918.
of eighteen and over have comforted and made to feel nt home by being colled Willie George. 1 might ask, has blood turned to 'water in this effete age I or will sexagenarians soon be wearing diapers? II am glad that IhlB anonymous student has been made to feel, at home at Carnegie if that is what is important to him, but the reason hat I and many of my acquaintances came to Carnegie was so
That is what we hoped for here. Not to feel at home. God forbid it]Maybe I am just a tough customer. I worked for n year before coming to school and found that the world isnt like home. It is a sterner place where stubbed toes bring no smother of motherly attnnle ot eighteen i If he cannot learn to take it between the freshman and senior years he.-never.will.learn.Heres hoping no instructor ever gets fresh and calls me Willlnm. Very truly yours, WILLIAM EX-UMBILICUS.
LOST TOPCOAT
df the person who took the grey 
Fashion Park topcoat by mistake 
will return It; to the Grill office, he. 
will receive his own In return.
[[Xiberlg Engraving Companyj
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES.1 
PHOTOGRAPHY, 
COLOR.NEWS end COMMERCIAL
------ART
FOR ALL ILLU STRATIVE 
PURPOSES^
* MYONIGHT '
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pitttburgh, Pa.
incetti
Cosmopolitans Invited 
To High' Vesper Service
Students of Russian, Greek, Serbian, Roumanian, Bulgarian, Syr* Jan, and Ukrainian, Orthodox faiths
the St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church at 419 S. Dltbridge street, at 8:00, Friday evening, November 9.Rev. D. Kuzamara of Clalrton, Pa., Rev. Fitlnski and Rev, Romanoff of Homestead, and Rev. J.
YOULL find that all of our 
dresses can nicely fit into an' 
expensive wardrobe. Youll find 
hundreds of dresses . . . silks, 
wools, and velvets . . . 'daytime 
frocks, evening gowns, dinner 
things. All of them styled so 
smartly youll be overjoyed.
|N UNFAILING SENSE OF STYLE HAS 
LONG BEEN EVIDENCED . IN THE 
CLOTHES OF PRINCETON UNDERIGRADUATES AND ALUMNI, AND 
HAS MADE ITSELF A NATIONAL FACTOR 
IN FASHIONS FOR MEN.
APPAREL ARTS,
/Every forward-lookinginen's
n's style authority, says:
merchant ought to take a trip 
a the Brinceton campus. The point of this would be .. . some
thing of an intangible nature that goes by the name of fashion.
Princeton men have never approved the bizan-e 
or the extreme in apparel. Therefore the statement 
of Gommy, Incorporated, famous Princeton tailor 
and specialist in mens wear, is important.
....I1omtntf.> Jays/'The difference between 
fine tailoring and common
place work is all in the attention given to what some people 
call little things. Every detail of a mans clothes is important 
to us, that is why we equip the trousers made in our shop with 
the Kover-Zip fly. In both style- and fit, it is superior to the 
buttoned (ly and is a big improvement over the.ordinary un
covered zipper because the metal is hidden.
Princeton men have endorsed Kover-Zip, the in-, 
visible seamline closure for trousers, as an essential 
of correct apparel. .
Advertisement. 
BEST-DRESSED MEN 
AT BIG COLLEGES 
COMMEND KOVER-ZIP
American coltogo men have a sure instinct lor improvements in apparel that Add to tho 
ness of tho thlngo thoy wear. A typical instance of this style-eeoBe was the nation* 
wido approval ot tho Kovor-ZIp fly by best-dresed seniors at the great unlver* itios from coast to const. Here are eome of  
nany comments on this Invisible oeamlino 
losure by college men who were solocted as best-dressed:
Princeton, 1934 The covered zippei fly is noatnes and per* 
fection (or trousers s slacks. qulto. an i 'cmcnt over the dlnary ripper with unsightly strip of ni'bardw
sip with the invisible fastener has the finished o which Is so 
if this new fastener for
Michigan, 1994 
The fleshy metal of tho uncovered slide fastener did make you 
flinch, but this new covered zipper is neat as
Alumni News
Philadelphia Alumni and Alum- lae, dont forget the big Football Binner-Dance to he held at the Hotel Adelphia Root/ Garden Saturday!. Buddy Overend, Graduate Manager of Athleti "Tei Ramsdell, Carnegies football, coach,. Howards Harpster, and Don Lovewell will be guests the dinner. Reservations will be accepted up to November The price of tickets is 51.90.
CINCINNATI CLAN 
t a recent meeting the Cincln- clan elected the following of- rs: R; A. .Gaines, president;Andrew Yerma, vice' president; and Sarah Hurllck Shriner, secreMusic Notes
The Department of Music flounces two forthcoming Sunday renlng .recitals. On November 18 . William'R, Stone.37, violinist slsled by Earl Wild, will give* in the Little Theater, College of Fine Arts. On December 2, miscellaneous program will be
Dr. Marshall Bldwell will be si9ted by students in his regular Saturday evening organ recitals in Caruegie Music Hall on the following dates: November-'17f Louise 
Wingold '36, 'cellist, will play group of soloa with organ, accomtho direction of J. V. 0|Brlen. will"the Guilmant symphony.TNo. ad 'the Handel'Concerto, No.-.4,- for organ and orchestra. Qh Dr cember 15; Madrigal Choir, directed by Hulda J. Kenley, .will sing Christmas Carols from ; many sources. --v'-. _
NOtlCE
-There is only orig1inal Al Buhl and his or
chestra - originally the 
Red Peppers -^ iii the 
city of Pittsburgh. Any. 
other , orchestra or orches
tra booker using this'title 
is making a malicious mis
representation. .
AL BUHL 5607 Bryant Stmt UOntrou 6911 '
The clean center leaves are the mildest 
leavesthey cost morethey taste 
betterso of course, Luckies use only 
the clean center leavesthe choicest 
Turkish and Domestic'tobaccos.

---------------------------------------------------

''"'"XU WWW. W^^,><' '* Vi '
;-.>i_____________________ T5R CABNE&XF TARTAN, TUESDAY. NOVEMgEg_6^jj3j_
TH E 
CARNE G IE 
PLAID
G V. VESSELS
Epic
- ( The general uproar that has foi- " lowed the public statements of Mr. Upton Sinclair, nominee (or Governor of the State of California, give*  rise to some pertinent thoughts on the part oi the electors of other States. For instance, has it  hot i proven often enough.that thi "Jzens search foi be gained by leg_ j fcct yet learned.that laws, customs, dictatorships, force, nor any other element tint
 8lty for bottr hard work and the opportunity for the industrious to rl667Perhaps Mr. Sinclair has stum- Wed upoh that which has been the goal of philosophers and philanthropists since the beginning of time, but Te doubt It.
Ins and Outs
The old - struggle between those power and those who hope to be againin pi
affair to be held under the juris diction of the Council Is' the Arts Dance which Is ' scheduled for Armistice Day, or rather evening.
I have enjoyed "all the past 6 of this group eince I havS registered - and I am looking forward to a fine time on Monday evening nest. So, all you lads- and ' is better mark the date on your sketch book and make sure
That the Carnegie Grill is eal restaurant. Yes, I know it ts cause I have had samples food from there on many occasions n l ran short of time and had match a bite before .6:39 class- And then,* too, - the' cozy at- moephere.and surroundings makes or an appetizing meal jor shall I ay lunch? if you dont belli
In
 various political * factions in this country. The men who were un- - lucky or unskillful enough to gain elections at the last .polls are bark- -ing- at the heels of those who are * > guide the yevy turbulent, waters. From the. point of view of the men in the street, about all :that *ls'being accomplished by . the denouncements is to muddy the waters and make It harder for the pilot to see the .rockB and shoals
. longing to a different faction, are attempting to straighten out the tangle Into which he and his fel- "low compatriots allowed us to elide when their group held control.
The Welfare Fund
Idle Thoughts 
of anIdle Night 
Student
al or two and
That the parking problem le still : acute as ever. This Is especially ue on the streets where, cars are parked parallel with the
under normal condilltpark a car and report time for class,-but when all the available space is taken roblem becomes more complex. It ould. be a splendid idea if.close to the car in front, within reason, and not take up thirty forty feet.
That It 16 a month since regleti on for the 1934-35 term co enced and classes are In full swing,' I havebeen'looklng arc many of my last yeaioclati
ii 
tnakeB an' appeal to. the night dents to do their bit in making the .drive for the Welfare Fund a cess. Mr. Blochlnger's letter ncede no' further- comment, save that tho ' PlAld-Staff is whole-heartedly In agreement with his senti: hopes that the student body -will contribute to the beBt of their ability to this worthy cause.The night' students, as a group have felt the pinch of the depi aicm, and should be able'to appreciate what the straits of the totally destitute must be. Their aympa- thlee need not be aroused In the in tereste of the poor of the*'Community, for, although we individually . jiate to 'admit it; there are few of . os who. In the past five years, have not at some time or another been In the embarrassing position of pondering just how long we could . meet oar obligations.
Weather
Perhaps the matter. Is beneath edltorial notice, but has it ever oc- . ' correid to'lhe gentle' reader that there le nolhlng like the opening of night d-L''Bs to .tnaure rain, hall, sleet, snow,-cofa.winds and similar . discomforts?  It-'aeems .that we . step from a balmy, lazy wanri pehaps ltlB the labor that makes up - think so. At any rate, we will Viager that the matheniatlcians on : tile campus could set up an egua- ' tibn:proving that:the bove  state-.
back, butII number have made appearance.
President af Might jCollege , 
Fine Arts Has Goofl Record
New Officer Possesses 
Much Experience In 
. ' hiiijiil.. Affairs
Edward- White had the unique distinction ofbeing.elected President ofhis college-by, a unanimous vole. It.is.unusual that a man sBould be elected' to office but it-ls felt that the honor was fully deserved Mr; White, who. has served bis school for a number of years,'will head the Arts group in the 1934-35 Night Student Council. .-W[hJtel...bas been on the  of'Carnegie.. for-a number during which time he has taken an active part in all' of the Night- School functions, and has given unstintingly of his time and energy for the furtherance of tho
campus c
lege of Fine Arts and this year is registered in the Painting and Decorating Department of- that College. Having served his collge as a
White Is thoroughly. conversant
Night Student Council both in.the
three activities keys. During the past year, Mr; White as honored by his fellow Council members by-being elected to the of lice of vice-president of that group. At the present time he is a member of the staff of the Carnegie 
Plaid.In addition* to the fine activities record of Mr. White ho has also been awarded the 1934-35 Night Student Council Scholarship for the fine scholastic record that ;he has earned. 'This schblarship is awarded annually to a student from each college for good scholastic work during the year. Mr. White's record speaks. :for itself and the College of (Fine Arts should be cc gratulated for choosing such
Bulletin Boards 
Are Very Untidy
Unnecessary Material Keeps 
Major Notices Covered
For some time .past the writer has noticed a certain bulletin board In the College of Industries which invariably presents a .rather ludi- crons appearance. Strung all over
1
 ^Carnegie Opens Drive 
:v For Community Fund
, 7 Continued From P&ze l  - 
-'distributed to the faculty. /These; .cards should be returned to Mrs. :) J. Moore, assistant controller. ' 
Supplies Vital Needs - 
. The federal and state governments through tax funds are pro* > viding food and - clothing to : families' of unemployed worke ; Allegheny County. None of . nioriey,  however, can be used for . the - support of organizations innots which tend-to minimize/the value of the important messages, which are placed thereon from; time
exceedingly tntidy 'appearance, Bulletin boavdg.havevavery definite "purpose and that is to furnish a: background for placing, bulletins and v notices thereon;  lb order that'these appeals may produce' the best results it la that nothing Intervene! the eye of .the observer and th else the value of the iries- ;'lost..-ltlcal study . of this parile* ular bulletin board shows that at- the entire board, ,1s taken up with -official blue print presenting the complete lay-out from the freshman year to th senior year
Students Required 
To Register Names
Chain
all e*ude_. send their . nam.es and ad* dresses either to.-the Night Student Council or to any representative from their col- . 
lege.
AH students interested in earning the Night Student Council Insignlaa are urged' to comply with .this request. The mailing list of .the vol-. unteer workers Is. now being - compiled and. .will be com-' pleted, by the end of this week. The' students .are no doubt aware that certain
a certain humbeir' of points In order to be eligible to receive the insignia. Certain oi: 7 these points must be earned in work done for the college in which the student is';ehrblled, the othera\can be earned either by w.ork done for the Student Council social affairs or by work done for the Plaid. In order "that the student can receive cred- it-for the points earned it Is essential that' .the Student ' Coucclf shoaid have his name and aiddress. '
Prizes Won By 
Masqueraders
Revelers Greatly Enjoy 
Fraternity. Function
what have you was the keynote of the evening. Something, or other reigned supreme and everyone
and politiciansThere was also a pig in a poke bu that-all comes later.The frolic, which is this fratei nltya flrst'Of the social season; wu held on Saturday evening, Oclobt 27, at the'A.. O. H. hall in Home- wood. Being a costume affair, prizes were offered for the most Unlqui dress.' .These prizes 
family enjoyed a Noodle Soup, din ner on Sunday). The winner very beautifully deckedout In.'tho rags and tetters of Many crows i
Arts Will Hold 
Aulujnn Dance
Thistle Hall Reserved 
For College Event
HERRICK TO PLAY
ModernisticSettingDesigned 
By Night Arts Student
The Night College of Fine Arts haa completed all arrangements for its Autumn' Uencc to b held in Thistle Hall, Monday, November 12. ' Previous social affairs of the Arts College have been criticized ' because they lacked.distlnc- tlvness and .were not reprsentative of. the school. This years committee promises drastic improvements. ' The stage settings;
School for dance decoration and will be. sure to cause, comment and win approval from those attending.There will be a special treat- In store for every lady attending the function. - The committee refuses elaborate on this--statement but says the treat will be in keeping
proachthe excellence of the dances held' by the Arts College day dents.
Fred Herrick and his/band will furnish the , dance music, making initial appearance night school campus. His band played at many day.' s dances and '.' is. ramiliar to'Tech night clubbers. Fred, who broadcasts every 'Thursday evening at 6:15 from WTAS will have calist ajnong-bis musicians at this event ' He promises new and  entrancing* melodies' for ': the 4ance
Plaid Making Attempt 
To Check JMailing List
It has been called to the attention of the Staff of the Carnegie Plaid that'some of the nlgtit etu% dSnts do not receive their -cdpieS of'the- Tartan regularly.  This-Is due to the fact that many of the names were but recently turned In, to ttieSlaff. y .
-If anyone;or your acquaintances falls to receive their copy of-the Plaid.this week,.they should.^send 
thelfnamei 'address1 and-.'classes attended to .the editor of the Carnegie Plaid. Use.the lntra'-School mall bos slot in the basement, of Administration Hall for tills pur-.
Didja Notice
aged In' theof voices properlyrood.the-'THAT that petite Industries Studious femme, le stlir plodding along 'towards a 
,B. S.THAT there lie another excuse for skipping lectures haunting the Council Room.THAT the . patent on my "THAT has been abducted, stolen, or what have you?
Welfare Fund 
Support Asked
Presi4eht of Council Asks 
Studeot6 to Contribute
To. the Night Students:  ' i
The Community Funds campaign 
for' tti funds necessary to success: 
fully allevlate. the condition of the 
poverty-stricken, and suffering resi; 
ts'f the county, is now in prog1, and I take advantage, of the 
privilege offered me to solicit the 
i'ndlvidiial co-operation of the night 
students'.
The extensive'publicity which, is 
being given to the Fund at this 
tiine acquaints us jvith the commnable -work which .it desires to undertake, and for'that reason, the Community Fupd should not fail/ 
Therefore, I urge each of; you to consider your personal .privileges and [willingly and whole-heartedly contribute towards the Fund's victory In its battle . against those forces , that viciously, attack mankind and, at the prsent time, are attacking fellow, citizens of,'our
Sincerely, . '
C. A. BLHINGER.  [ '
Contributors Reminded 
To Abideby N.S.C.
Work done^or.the Plaid by writ, 
ing ..contributions ..is credited tb. war^s the . points earned byth studeiit7 for the Insignia AwartL :Ia order-.to aid- the. Night Student .Council' In keeping the. records all contributors are .requested to'  end'-a duplicate copy of their mat ;uscript to tbe Night Student Coon, ell. so that.predlt.-can be given, h order that the' student may assma htmself' tbat credit wiU be 5i?e[1 him :for his. work, he Is asked to abide by-this ruling; The::dupu. cate copy .can be. addressed to tb Night Student Council and dropped fq the Inter-School- mail slot ]q
Mansions
Whohow ulld 
norSUNDAY DINNER
delicious meal, 
served well, in 
pleasant place 
BREAKFAST, LUNCH AND
DINNER EVER ir. DAY
f 'THning Rfioms
The committee-has. invited-i
Mary -Watson Green and A. W. Tarbell, Mr. Schmertz, Mr. Fisher, Mr. Hilton,-Mr. Warner, Mr. Sim- boll. Mr. Hyde, and Mr. Rosenberg.Although the dance is strictly speaking an Art School affair, outsiders will be permitted to.attend. The admission will be by Arts registration cards.for Art students by tickets for outsiders, tickets may be obtained from f
student body who may chew gum, .roll their sweater sleeves above their .elbow, or . paint their finger
C.S. EDMAN
PRINTER 
6470. Monitor Street
Youre lucky! Going to 
college used lo meangood-' 
bye to home for monlfas 
on end.. Now, with the 
telephone, you can go 
home in an instant. Try it 
tonight  a telephone 
"voice visit is next best 
lo being there!
was chosen i fanner of the evening i ed with a beer case:
dressed
Exercise for the Teader: Was"his mouth watering as he approached the box? Was his face red when he saw the ^lg? And the pig???Cider was: served to the guests, aweet elder. Apples .and ginger snaps-w;.ere also ready for the hungry crowd.' it has come to the eare of the School Gossip that the cldcr although sweet on Saturday tasted rather hard to the committee  on
The University of Wlscons sponsors their own Night Club, right on the campus. They serve beerthe- object is to keep the students away from._downtown cabarets.The New Mexico Lobo.
Col*Students at Massachusetts lege have--, set aside .October 27 ttfelr annual Dads Day. On this day all' the student's dads are invited to the .campus to be entertained ' by their sons and daugh
ters. _______ y.  _________
LARGEST SELECTION OP PORTABLE AND - STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS 
$14.95 to $75.00
L'*RNT*AnTTPEWwTER ^
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.. 644 LIBERTY AVENUE MeClor BuUdlne
CaU 100 miles for 60 
Day Rate} for SO cents by 
Evening Rate; for 35 cents by 
Night Rate. (Station to Station 
all  3-nrinute conneeiion.)
spi4'Bell^Teiephon^.Go.mpanY-:Of:j:Penn5Ylval3|
ami ihcv suit fi ti litri fiwp hi ih ohi unni
Arts Dance Workers to 
Hold Meeting Sunday
- Night studeiits wishing to work for the College t-Fine,Arts Dance; are requested to'-.be present at Thistle' Hall- on Sunday -afteTnoot, November 11,-at 1:30 p.'i which time preparations w made for the dance.. There will be three periods which.will be divided as follows:-(1) decorating hall, (2) working at the daTici
glneerlng. This leaves very little tf any room for current* important bulletins. .The blue .print Is a very
after the -.af-______ ______an.Insignia
Award,* will be given for each peJosephine Culbertson says there
the cij>arcllc that's MII.DKR 
the cibarci te that TASTLS lil.TTF.R
