4*
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 53NUMBER 3 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1959
Homecoming Reveals 
The Fabulous Fifties
Fraternity displays being planned and built now will 
exhibit a wide variety of themes due.to the large field of ideas 
presented by the Homecoming theme, The Fabulous Fifties. 
Each display will portray some important or newsworthy 
event which has happened since 1950 in conjunction with the
defeat o Grove City and the* --------------------------------------------
visitation of Tech alumni.
The powerful and impressive 
H-bomb will be used by Alpha 
\^u Omega as the theme for 
their display. The Tartans aided 
by the H-bomb, or perhaps meant 
to be presented as being as pow
erful as an H-bomb, will bring 
about the subsequent defeat of 
Grove City.
Beta Sigs
Beta Sigma Rho has chosen for 
their themes title, the expression 
I dreamed I defeated Grove City 
in my Maiden Form Bra. A Cari^gie Tech alum dreams that 
Grove City is defeated by the 
Tartans use of a Maiden Form 
Bra.
The~ conquest oi Mt. Everest 
will be the theme of Beta Theta 
Pis display. The race to the top 
of Mt. Everest is won by the Tar
tan hero as he manages to over
come natural and unnatural ob
stacles (Grove City) and obtain 
victory.
Delts
Charlie Brown Revolts is 
Delta Tau Deltas display and as 
coach of the Tartan team, refuses 
to babysit for his sister, Sally 
Brown, who happens to coach 
Grove City, and with plenty of 
free time, leads his team to vic
tory.
Delta Upsilon makes use of the 
race into space and titles their 
display, Blasting Off at Cape 
<0naveral. As the alumni look 
on. Techs Eggheads rocket the 
Wolverines way out into orbit.
Kappa Sigma
Kappa Sigma, having chosen 
political highlights of the 50s as 
their theme, plan to present a 
satirical political review of the 
50s through the medium of mod
ern television. All, of course, in 
conjunction with Grove City and 
the Tartans.
The Tartans will freeze out the 
Grove City foes in Pi Kappa 
Alphas display. Korea as the 
football field will be the back
ground for a tense scene where 
the Grove City crooks are frozen 
out of action by the Tartans as 
they try to make a goal.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon will not be 
entering the display competition 
this year. Instead the time and 
money usually spent on a display 
will be given to charity.
Sigma Nu
Sigma Nu welcomes homecom
ing attendants and Tech alumni 
to its own pavillion at the Fifties 
Most Fabulous Exhibition, The 
Brussels Worlds Fair.
The Tartan Missile is being 
used by Tau Delta Phi as their 
homecoming theme. A sub-based 
Techite will heave the Tartan 
missile and blast Grove City off 
the field.
Theta Xi
Theta Xi will present The 
Weighing Game where Eisen
hower and Khrushchev meet on 
the balance of power. Returning 
alumni lend a hand in the fight of 
the fifties.
Scotch and Soda will add its 
presence to the homecoming com
petition for the very first time. 
Their theme, The Three Penny 
Clobber, will represent the story 
of Mack the Knife who portrays 
the spirit of the Alums.
Leading his band of Techites to 
victory against the Grove City 
Beggars. This is S n Ss version 
of the sensational musical of the 
fifties, the Three Penny Opera.
arnegie Trustees Approve 
New Fraternity Dorm Policy
Last Saturday morning, President J. C. Warner and other 
administration officials met with the presidents, alumni ad
visors, and faculty advisers of Techs twelve fraternities.
At this meeting President Warner reviewed the history 
of fraternity dormitory housing*
since its establishment in 1939 un:(jfc the then president of Carne
gie Tech, Dr. Doherty.
At that time fraternities were 
having a hard time financially: 
one-third of the chapters had 
folded up and many of the re
maining chapters were in straight
ened circumstances. Many of the 
neighbors of Tech and Tech ad
ministration officials urged the 
elimination of fraternities.
Dr. Doherty 
*/pr. Doherty believed that if fra
ternities were administered to in
sure worthy goals and proper 
personal and group social conduct 
and if they were placed in a po
sition where they could be finan
cially sound, they could be a con
structive force on campus. His 
views led to our present system of 
faculty and alumni advisers to 
fraternity chapters and to the con
clusion that the solvency of the 
copters would be assured if Carnegie Tech assumed the same re
sponsibility for housing students 
who were members of fraternities 
as it did for students who were 
not in a fraternity. This led to the 
present fraternity dormitory sys
tem in which students belonging 
to a fraternity chapter are housed 
in Tech-owned and Tech-main
tained buildings. Each individual 
student pays has room rent direct
ly to Carnegie Tech in the same 
manner as resident students.
The plans and policies for the 
design and operation of the new 
fraternity duplexes, which house 
at present six of the ten Tech 
chapters in the fraternity-dormitory plan, were formulated back 
in 1954 in several meetings in 
which the administration, trustees 
of Carnegie, faculty and alumni 
advisors, and active chapter rep
resentatives of fraternities met.
After twenty years of successful 
[continued on page 7]
Varsity Varieties 
Depict Tartan Win 
Over Grove City
During Varsity Varieties, the 
day before the homecoming game, 
Grove City will be going down 
to defeat seven times. Each so
rority skit, in accordance with a 
chosen theme, will depict the 
Tartan victory.
Alpha Epsilon Phi will present 
the Tech beat generation nix
ing Grove City with the theme 
beat dicing past years and in
stead want to make Grove City 
beat.
A Shot in Time. Chi Omega 
depicts the Wolverines as the 
polio virus which tries to paralize 
Techites. But Miss Salk saves the 
day, and the Techites become im
mune to the Wolverines attempt.
Tri Delt
A prospector and a penguin star 
in Delta Delta Deltas skit, Se
wards Folly Comes of Age, in 
which Texas, representing Grove 
City, and Alaska, representing 
Carnegie Tech, vie for the title 
of largest state. Half of the ac
tion takes place in Texas and half 
in Alaska.
Delta Gamma has intrigue and 
suspense in store for the Tartans 
when they meet the great Castro. 
His secret formula that brought 
him into power will be revealed 
and given to the deserving team 
to bring them victory in the 
.homecoming game. In a South 
American setting, dancing girls 
and rebel soldiers help to com
plicate the plot.
Thetas
In Rock at Jamaica, Theta 
enacts the Rock and Roll Wolv
erines as they attempt to over
come calypso and win top place 
in the musical world. A conflict 
ensues as the calypso clan holds 
its own.
The Wolverine poison becomes 
trapped in a Tartan filter! Kap
pa Kappa Gamma will present 
The Wolverine Pack.
In Sigma Kappas Andrea 
Doria two ships are sailing to
wards a port where the big game 
will be played, neither expecting 
to meet the other until that time. 
However, a collision occurs and 
the Tartan sinks the Grover.
Open House
Open house which was 
scheduled for October 27 has 
been changed to November 17. 
Therefore there will be eve
ning class on October 27 and 
not on November 17.
Girls Costumes 
Are Not Complete 
Without A Mum
Mums are a must for Homecom
ing since every girl attending the 
game should be wearing one.
As usual, mums may be pur
chased from the Cwens; fraternity 
men may buy them through their 
houses and independents, from 
Cwens in Skibo. The mums are 
$1.00 and will be delivered to the 
fraternities at 12:00 noon Satur
day. Independents may pick theirs 
up in Morewood between 11:30 
and 1:00 Saturday.
As Cwens are a non-profit or
ganization, the proceeds of the 
sale will be directed into a schol
arship fund.
II W HI ܡ Wm
mmm58
#,: I
Aaron Copland to Discuss Music at Symposium
Arts Symposium 
Features Copland
One of the most valuable and interesting features of Pitts
burghs Bicentennial celebration will be the Bicentennial 
Symposium of Arts, being presented on October 9 and 10 at 
Carnegie Music Hall.
Produced in cooperation with Carnegie Tech, it should
be particularly interesting to Tech*-------------------------------------------------------------
students, not only because of the | respected men in astronomy, HarTech facultv representation but :
also because of the topics being low Shapley Wl11 rePresent scl~
ence on the panel and will discuss 
the connection between science 
and the arts and their effects on 
each other.
All Tech students are urged to 
attend the informative and inter
esting presentation of the arts.
Queen Election
discussed and the distinguished 
and informed persons who will 
lead these discussions.
The moderator for the sympo
sium is Lionel Trilling. Dr. Trill
ing is a prominent author and 
well-known for his articles ap
pearing in such publications as the 
New York Times Book Review.
Aaron Copland 
Music will be discussed by the 
very well known composer, r',l  1 -
Aaron Copland. A recipient of! JL IllS tV G01V 
the Pulitzer Prize for music; an I
Oscar Award for his music in I The Homecoming Queen will be
The Heiress, a recognized and chosen from among the seven 
admired composer of every kind i candidates in an election this 
of music. Mr. Copland hardly j Thursday and Friday on the cut 
needs any kind of introduction as i and in Skibo during the lunch 
to his knowledge and success in j hours. The three finalists will be 
the field of music. announced soon after the voting
Eric Bently, widely regarded as an<^ pinner will be crowned 
one of the most perspecting critics j ^Carnegie Day.
of theater and author of many
works of drama, will represent 
the dramatic arts at the sympo
sium.
John Ferren
The elections, another Alpha 
Phi Omega service, are preceded 
by tours through the fraternity 
houses on Monday. The candi
dates are: Barbara Bogstahl, BarT . c, ... . bara Drake, Niki Manos, ToniJohn Ferren, one of the most 0 0 0 , A..,. ... Sams, Suzanne Seckler, Alicesuccessful artists of our times will ... , ~ , r , r , ... - . Werboff, and Wendy Wolff,be the representative of art. Mr. I
Ferren and Aaron Copland will I Presentation
begin the symposium with their spectators this year at the
discussion of music and art. Homecoming game will be seeing
I A Richards, generally ac Scotch n Soda show at halftime 
knowledged as the founder of [ Scotch n Soda has complete
modern literary criticism, will charge of the half-time proceedlead discussions of literature on {inSs- Previously this has been 
Friday evening. taken care of by the Homecoming
Architecture will be represented ! Committee itself.
by Louis Kahn, member of the 
Yale architecture faculty. He is 
noted not only for his work with 
city planning and housing devel
opments but also for his well 
known philosophy of building de
sign.
One of the most honored and
The Presentations will be made 
to the theme of the Three Penny 
Opera," which was one of tbe 
longest run plays during the 
Fifties. And, in accordance with 
Scotch & Sodas spectacular 
standards, a secret star is being 
[continued on page 7]

---------------------------------------------------

rge tCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 7, 1959
CJLegiute
C h /Cultural 
C^cifencltciv
By Maxine Brown
Tonight, and tonight only, will 
you have the opportunity to hear 
Jose Iturbi, famed pianist. His 
performance at Carnegie Music 
Hall will open the music season 
for Pittsburgh. Sunday afternoon 
you will have a choice of hearing 
.either of the organ recitals be
ing performed at 3 p.m. at the 
organ in Carnegie Music Hall here 
in Oakland will be Marshall Bidwell. His guest will be Victor Hill, 
a Tech student, playing the Mo
zart Piano Concerto in C minor. 
Paul Koch will open the 65th 
*eason of recitals in the Northside Carnegie Music Hall with 
Ruth Ann McCoy, soprano, and 
Walter Beck, tenor, as his guest 
artists.
Art
If you dont feel like walking 
too far, but would like to get a 
look at the world of art, go to the 
Fine Arts building. In addition to 
the usual hodge-podge of sounds 
emanating from the music depart
ment, there are two current ex
hibits. Anni Albers Pictorial 
Weaving can be seen until Fri
day from 8:30 to 5:00. Also on the 
third floor of Carnegie Institute 
there are newsprint advertising 
graphics by Arnold Varga being 
shown until October 25. Ilustrations by Georges Roualt for Rein
carnations du Pere Ubu are also 
being shown at the Institute. Not 
wishing to slight the otner nail 
i tne world, we must mention 
Chathams showing of structural 
steel in Todays Architecture. This 
exhibit is in Falk Hall and can 
be seen until October 13 from 9:00
a.m .to 5:00 p.m. daily, and 1:00 
p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Sunday.
Symposium 
There are just a few reminders 
we would like to add. Tickets are 
still available for Film Arts, 
which presents movies each and 
every Thursday, and dont forget 
the Bicentennial Symposium on 
| the arts on Friday and Saturday, 
October 9 and 10. This should be 
of great interest to anyone study
ing on the Carnegie Plan.
WRCT Presents 
Varied Program 
Throughout Year
WRCT began its operations for 
the school year 1959-1960 this 
week, and from the looks of it,
| your 600 dial is the spot to tune 
to every night of the coming year.
New talent, new shows, better 
engineering, and some $200 worth 
of new records, promise to make 
this year an eventful one in 
WRCT history.
Plans For Future
In the planning are a number of 
drama productions that are to be 
broadcast over the air. Also, dont 
j be surprised if you should hear 
i playbacks on WRCT of some of 
! the musical presentations that will 
| be given in Pittsburgh in the comS ing year. Most important of all is 
I th^ fact that WRCT is now doing 
i live broadcasts of all football 
games, and that they intend to 
broadcast all home basketball 
games.
There is every indication that 
this will be a year of good radio 
listening. Be sure to read the Tar
tan every week for advance no
tice of the special programs to 
watch.
Scotch n Soda 
Is America's 
Outstanding 
Collegiate Musical!
Coed Of DL WeekWRCT Weekly 
Program Schedule
Weekdays
5:00 p.m......................................... Sign On, Variety Music
7:00 p.m................................................Music of the Masters
9:00 p.m..................................................................................Jazz
10:00 p.m..........................................................  Personality
11:00 p.m............................................................... Night Train
1:00 a.m........................................................................Sign Off
Election1 continued from page I] 
imported from New York to pre
sent the queen.
Since no other organization is 
planning a display centering on 
the significant musical or theat
rical events of the Fabulous 
Fifties, Scotch & Soda is dlso 
going to construct a display with 
the theme again the Three Penny 
Opera.
Saturday
3:00 p.m.............................................Sign On, Opera Music
5:00 p.m............................................................. Dinner Music
7:00 p.m.................................................Saturday Symphony
9:00 p.m............................................................... Dance Party
12:00 p.m..............................................................  Nightcap
l-:00 a.m...........................................................................Sign Off
Sunday
2:00 p.m. ......................................Sign On, Sunday Chapel
3:00 p.m......................................................Sunday Serenade
4:00 p.m.........................................................Serenely Yours
5:00 p.m......................................................... Dance Music
6:00 p.m......................... .................Music of the Masters
8:00 p.m...................................................................Sound Off
9:00 p.m..............................................................................   Jazz
10:00 p.m..................................... .........Rezod & Promethius
11:00 p.m.................................................... The Purple Grotto
1:00 a.m..........................................................................Sign Off
Sixteen More Men 
Have Pledged 
Tech Fraternities
Alpha T a u Omega: HOdson
Thornber, Reese Harvey, Chip 
McKnight.
Beta Theta Pi: Ned Zetler, Ken
neth Hyde, Jack Allen, Guy Beat
ty.
Delta Tau Delta: Harry Weissenstein.
Delta Upsilon: Pat Malone, Har
ris Cherin.
Kappa 3igma: Bill Powell, Tom 
Zeno, Glenn Haughey.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Randy
Smith.
Sigma Nu: Lloyd Fagen, Marty 
Ackerman.
Shontz
Betsy Badger
Music MajorB ULETINOAROULDCCD ULNC amNARDp
tngmeermg ot microwave relay and carrier systems keeps Bryan Clinton s job interesting and challenging.
"I got the engineering career I wanted
...and right in my own home state
In 1955, William Bryan Clinton, Jr., got 
his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering at 
Clemson College. Now Bryans with 
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph 
Company at Columbia, South Carolina. 
Hes doing specific planning of long di9- 
tance communications projects involv
ing cable carrier facilities and microwave 
radio relay systems.
Bryan chose a career with Southern 
Bell over several other offers. There 
were three things that were most impor
tant to me, he says. First, 1 wanted to 
go with an established, growing company 
where I could grow, too. Second, I wanted 
thorough basic training to get started off 
right, plus participation in development 
programs to keep me moving ahead. And, 
third, I wanted to stay in the South.
After 15 months of on-the-job training 
in various phases of company operations, 
Bryan was assigned to the Engineering 
Department at Columbia, S. C. His work 
with carrier systems and microwave 
radio projects has involved him directly 
in the growth of the company. And hes 
broadened his experience through devel
opment courses in management, general 
engineering, engineering economy, and 
microwave relay systems.
I know Im with a fast-growing com* 
pany and I feel Im really participating 
in its growth, Bryan says. Whats more, 
Im getting the training I need to keep 
me abreast of new commujiications de
velopments and take better advantage of 
advancement opportunities when they 
come along.
Bryan Clinton earned! a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engi
neering. Hes one of many young college men pursuing 
rewarding careers with the Bell Telephone Companies. 
Find out about opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell 
interviewer when he visits your campusand read the 
Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
BELI.
TELEPHONE
COMPANIES
I
IIIIIJ
Address
Phone
Submitted by
Name
Entry Blank 
Coed of the Week Contest

---------------------------------------------------

MILWAUKEE BRAVES PITCHER
Wednesday, October 7,CARNEGIE TARTAN-Paee t
Bicentennial SymposiumSense Of Humor 
Is Necessary To 
Succeed At Tech
Mortar Board exists to promote 
leadership, scholarship and serv
ice. These elements comprise the 
essence of college life. However 
after four years of academic ban
queting, we find that a student 
cannot succeed as a leader, scholar 
or extra-curricular worker unless 
one very important quality is 
present along with all else. That 
is, a sense of humour.
Its not easy to laugh at our
selves when we flunk an important 
exam. But, if we didnt learn to 
take it in our stride, the popula
tion at Tech would go way down. 
And when youre leading bravely 
along only to turn and find no 
one following you, well, the senior 
fence was not erected as a wail
ing wall. We realize the discour
agement of an energetic organi
zation eager to serve, and hitting 
up against broom-salesman-treatment. Its not really very funny 
but neither are sick jokes.
Look Carefully
Were not telling you to pre
tend you're happy when youre 
blue. Just look carefully at the 
! things youre blue about. These 
1 almost-but-not-quite-there years 
can be very depressing. Things 
which are in truth small and in
significant can bring factors down, 
cause apathetic dispositions and 
extend the line to the Bureau of 
Measurement and Guidance down 
to Porter Hall.
Remember, it can always be 
; worse. Remember, too, it may not 
be quite so bad as youre making 
! it. And perhaps youre crying 
; about it instead of correcting it.
! There ig pleasure to be found in 
j every college day if your mind 
is disposed to find it. Call up that 
sense of humour, Its important to 
study, its important to be always 
at your best. Its just as important 
I to laugh.
us--tore uHBiy
Moderator for all meetings: Lionel Trilling
Friday, October 9
i.m......................................................... Aaron Copland
John Ferren
i.m  .............................................. I. A. Richards
Eric Bentley
Saturday, October 10
>.m. .............................................................. Louis Kahn
^ Harlow Shapley
>.m........................... Symposium Summary
^ YM-YWCA Series
The first of a series of interna
tional nights at the YM and YW 
will be a program on Thailand 
on Thursday, October 8, from 4:30 
to 7:00 at the Union. Miss Son 
Song Limsong will speak, showing 
color slides of her country; and 
the wife of one of the students 
in metallurgy at Tech, Mrs. Manoo 
^berburus, will prepare the Thai 
meal, to be served for 75 cents. 
Students wishing to come are ask
ed to sign up at the Y office in 
the Union early so plans-can be 
made for the food.
International Club
The first meeting of the Inter
national Club will be held on Sun
day, October 11, at 7:30 p.m., in 
the GSIA Auditorium. There will 
be a showing of some Norwegian 
color films by Mr. Peer # :>elberg, 
followed by general social activity. 
At the end of the meeting elec
tions will be held to select club 
officers for 1959-60.
Graduate and undergraduate 
students of Carnegie Tech are in
vited, and all foreign students are 
particularly invited. It is hoped 
that this year some American stu
dents will lose their isolationism, 
so that the panel may not be de
void of American viewpoints in 
its discussions.
with MaxShuIman
{Author of / Was a Teen-age Dwarf , 
Loves of Dofne (Hltis, etc.)
FOOTBALL: ITS CAUSE AND CURE
Is ext Saturday at the football- game while you are sitting in your 
choice students seat behind the end zone, wont you give a 
thought to Alaric Sigafoos?
Alaric Sigafoos (1868-1934) started life humbly on a farm 
near Thud, Kansas. His mother and father, both named Ralph, 
were l>ean-gleaners, and Alaric became a bean-gleaner too. I>ater 
he moved to Oregon and found work with a logging firm as a 
stump-thumper. Then he went to North Dakota where he 
tended the furnace in a granary (wheat-heater). Then he drifted 
to Texas where he tidied up oil fields (pipe-wiper). Then to 
Arizona where he strung dried fruit (fig-rigger). Then to Ken
tucky where he fed horses at a breeding farm (oat-toter). Then 
to Ixnig Island where he dressed poultry (duck-plucker). Then 
to Alaska where he drove a delivery van for a bakery (breadsledder). Then to Minnesota where he cut up frozen lakes (iceslicer). Then to Nevada where he computed odds in a gambling 
house (dice-pricer). Then to Milwaukee where he pasted camera 
lenses together (Zeiss-splicer).
linally he went to Omaha where he got a job in a tannery 
beating pig hides until they were soft and supple (hog-flogger.) 
Here he found happiness at last.
Scotch 11 Soda 
Is Americas 
Outstanding 
Collegiate Musical !
Why, you ask. did he find happiness at last? Light a firm and 
fragrant Marlboro, taste those better makin's, enjoy that filter 
that filters like no other filter filters, possess your souls in sweet 
content, cross your little fat legs, and read on.
Next door to Alarics hog-floggery was an almond grove owned 
by a girl named Chimera Emrick. Chimera was pink and white 
and marvelously hinged, and Alaric was instantly in love. Each 
day he came to the almond grow to woo Chimera, but she, alas, 
stayed cool. m
Then one day Alaric got a brilliant idea. It was the day l>efore the annual Omaha Almond Testival. On this day, as every
one knows, all the almond growers in Omaha enter floats in the 
big parade. These floats always consist of large cardl>oard al
monds hanging from large cardboard almond tree*.
Alaric^ inspiration was to stitch pieces of pigskin together 
and inflate them until they looked like big, plump almond. 
These sure beat skinny old cardboard almonds," said Alaric 
to himself. Tomorrow they will surely take first prize lor 
Chimera and she will be mine!
Early the next morning Alaric carried his lovely inflated pig
skin almonds over to Chimera, but she, alas, had run off during 
the night with Walter T. Severidge, her broker. Alaric flew into 
such a rage that he started kicking his pigskin almonds all over 
the place. And who should be walking by that very instant but 
Abner Doubledav!
Mr. Doubleday had invented baseball the day liefore, and ha 
w'as now trying to invent football, but he was stymied l>ecause 
he couldn't figure out what kind of ball to use. Now, seeing 
Alaric kick the pigskin spheroids, his problem was suddenly 
solved. Eureka! he cried and ran to his drawing lioard and 
invented football, which was such a big success that he in
spired to go on and invent lacrosse. Monopoly, run sheep run, 
and nylon. * *
When you go to next Saturday's game, take along the perfect 
football companionMart Inno Cigaret ten or Philip Mnrrin 
Cigarettes or new Alpine Cigaretteaall a delightall spon
sor* of I his column*I The best tobacco makes the best smoke!
B i ttejiwiUs Ttfticcco Co., Wiuslou Sclera, N U.

---------------------------------------------------

Pagf 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 7, 1959
Editorial 
Is Cramming Encouraged?
The aim of the Carnegie Plan of professional education 
is to equip students to grow throughout their lives in profes
sional and personal sature and in usefulness as citizens. In 
attempting to so equip its students, it seems clear that Tech 
has adopted a policy which is above that of a sink or swim 
one. This concern is mirrored in the freshmen mentor plan, 
the existence of a Bureau of Measurement and Guidance and 
in the general attitude at Tech in tending to lessen the formal 
lines of division separating faculty and students that still ex
ist in many schools of higher education.
One sometimes wonders, however, if the system of ex
amination used in most of Techs undergraduate courses is 
consistent with these aims and ideals. In particular the ques
tion to be considered is whether the student is encouraged to 
gain as much as possible under the present examination setup 
as he would under alternate schemes. As the reader may 
have guessed, specific mention to cramming in relation to 
the present system is to be considered here.
Cramming
It is an almost uridisputable fact that the vast majority 
of Tech students resort to cramming at one time or another. 
Even more disturbing is the fact that many of the more suc
cessful students academically lean heavily upon this techni
que, providing additional time for outside activities and in
terests. There are few psychologists, instructors or even stu
dent who will attempt to argue that cramming is a desirable 
way of gaining knowledge, especially that knowledge and 
experience the Carnegie Plan attempts to instill. Facts, tech
niques and anything else learned by cramming are all too 
soon forgotten.
Nevertheless, is not the examination system used in 
many courses in which only four (in many cases only two) 
tests are given per semester a poor idea? The fact that 
these tests are few in number and are announced beforehand, 
along with the somewhat prevalent policy of weighting home
work almost zero except in borderline cases, seems almost an 
encouragement to students to cram. Under the present sys
tem cramming is so natural that anyone who finds he can 
achieve acceptable grades by this method, he has little in
centive to do otherwise. At present under this system, cram
ming is the most adjustive technique in the short run.
Alternate System
If instead if the present system, an examination scheme 
would be introduced under which several unannounced tests 
would be given throughout the semester along with a greater 
emphasis on homework, the student would not be left in an 
environment encouraging cramming. Instead he would have 
strong motivation to keep astride of class progress and to 
study each course on a regular basis. It is true that such a 
system would create an additional burden of grading extra 
tests and homework, but would not the result be worth it? 
More Tech students would take a great deal more away from 
their classes and retain it for a much longer time, better 
fulfilling the aims of the Carnegie Plan. J.D.S.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone. MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Lditor .... .................................................................................. Jeremiah J). Sullivan
Associate f ditor ......................................................................................... Frank J. Balnh
Business Manager .. .................................................................................. L** Adlesberg
Kews I.ditor .................................................................................................. Jan Notopoulo*
Assistant News Editor ....................................................................................... Phil James
Sports Editor ........................................................................................... Chutk Vodvarka
* ups Editor ......................................................................................... Mary Ann Melton
l ayout Editor......................................................................................................Jim Whalen
Feature EditorRena Siegal, Photography EditorFred Beste, 
Assistant Business ManagerMike Balsam, Advertising Manager 
Mi ley Holander, SecretaryAudrey Dolan, Circulation ManagerBob 
Miller, TransportationBob Gregory.
News Staff Sally Ganong. Martha Magee, Georgia White, George 
Logan, Louis Wolf, Maxine Brown, Vince Freund, Bob Nowak, 
Betsy Moss.
Sports Staff  Bob Miller, Paul Sebastian, Dick Szuch, Glenn 
Klpac, Mike Berman, Joe Oldfield, Bob Rcber, John Seango. Sherm 
Chottiner, Bob Walker.
Copy StaffSpence Anderson. Janis Geisler, Natalie Selkovits.
TypistsPatti Michael, Circulation StaffBill Russell.
S<*c nd Cla** postajie paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
lui.n-tl ivr national ad\fcrtjsing by National Advertising, Inc.
Letter 
To The 
Editor
Attitude
Editor, The Tartan:
Last Friday night, October 2, 
our campus was visited by a num
ber of students from the Univers
ity of Pittsburgh who were cheer
ing for their teams victory in the 
football game with U.C.L.A. on 
the following day. Quite apart 
from the question of whether any 
group of people should ride about 
in overloaded cars yelling at the 
top of their voices these stu
dents received a very unfavorable 
welcome from the Tech students.
The Pitt students received a 
full measure of catecalls, boos, and 
cheers for the opposing team. One 
cannot help wondering why an 
obviously friendly gesture on 
their part was greeted by us in 
such a manner.
Do we fail to realize that the 
days of intense rivalry between 
us and Pitt on the football field 
are long since gone? Dont we 
realize that students living only a 
few blocks apart cannot help hav
ing mutual interests, which could 
be exploited to the best interests 
of both? Dont we see that friend
liness on our part could reap 
worthwhile benefits for us?
My question actually amounts 
to this: Do we boo the Pitt stu
dents because of some supersti5L WloJern S.cene
Beat Generation
During Freshman Week, a newcomer to the campus was 
heard to remark, on seeing her first dramat, Is he : real 
beatnik? The young ladys dilemma is becoming quite com
mon, now that the sterotype beatnik is coming more ofteiy. 
to the public eye. Television, movies, books and other media 
of entertainment are being deluged by hordes of unshaven 
young men in faded jeans and unlipsticked girls in even 
worse-looking outfits. Everyone is talking about those strange 
creatures, but few seems to know just what they are and 
what they stand for.
Essentially, the beat movement is a revolution. Many of 
our generation have decided that the square world of tradi
tion, middle-class morality, success-orinetation,  and grav 
flannel suits, is not the best of all possible worlds. The revolt 
itself is not new; the lost generation of the 20s was an 
expression of the same sort. It is rather the means of protest 
which have changed.
New Values
Todays rebels are not seeking great causes; they dont 
try to change the world. They want only to find new values, 
better ways of everyday living. They turn to the philosophical 
of the east, Zen Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism, Islam, in 
an effort to live in a better way* free from Western tradii 
tions. Their literature is not concerned with great themes 
and plots, but rather with the joys and terrors of daily (and 
nightly) life. Their music is not in the grand symphonic 
manner, but rather in the intimacy of the jazz combo. Their 
special language is symbolic, terse, usually monosyllabic, yet 
incredibly expressive to those in the know; beat, bop, dip, 
swing, kicks, drag Zenthese are the watchwords of the 
movement.
To gain a further understanding of these night-peopled 
read the words of their spokesmen, confusing though they 
may be: Jack Kerouac, Clellon, Holmes, Allen Ginsberg, 
Kenneth Rexroth. Listen to some modern jazz: Miles Davis, 
Lennie Tristano, Charlie Packer, Dizzy Gillespie. Better still, 
listen to their most successful communicators the comedians, 
Lenny Bruce, Shelley Berman, Mort Saul. Then decide for
tion or legend to the effect that y0urself whether their revolt is valid.
we are supposed to do this, or do - __________________________________________________________
we actually have a good reason T""'* A T"x t\t
for our actions? r me Art s Ur. lNorman Dawes
Sincerely,
Jan M. Chaiken
Foreign 
Scholarships
Seniors and graduate stu
dents who want information 
about Fulbright, Marshall, or 
Rhodes Scholarships for for
eign study or who wish to 
apply for an award should 
see R. E. Parshall, AH 260. 
as soon as possible. There is 
no restriction as to field of 
study.
The deadline for completed 
Fulbright applications is Oc
tober 20. Marshall and Rhodes 
applications must be complet
ed and mailed not later than 
October 30.
Students interested in ap
plying for one of these schol
arships should discuss the 
idea with their department 
head and receive his endorse
ment as a promising applicant 
before they see Mr. Parshall.
On Fulbright Lectureship
By Rena Siegel
Dr. Norman H. Dawes, a familiar figure to Fine Arts stu: dents, is nowhere to be seen on Tech campus this semester. 
Long the main lecturer for sophomore HAC (History of Arts 
and Civilization) classes, Dr. Dawes is now in India.
He received his B.A. at Boston University in 1927, follow-,
! ed by his M.A. and Ph.D. at Har-*----------------------------------------------**
vard in 1928 and 1944, respectively. A member of Theta Xi and 
Phi Kappa Phi, he recently bej came an honorary member of Phi 
| Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity 
i because of his advisory capacity 
| and keen interest in music and 
the fraternitys activities.
He has a long list of honors to 
his credit, which include a Car
negie Teaching Award in 1952. 
This award, now discontinued, 
was equal to half his salary plus 
expenses for travel. In making the 
award President Warner said, 
The awards are given to the four 
teachers outstanding both in the 
quality of their undergraduate 
teaching as measured by Car
negies educational objectives, and
Requiescat In Pace
in their influence upon the teach
ing of others.
One of his favorite pieces of 
advice to HAC students was al
ways, Keep a list of books to 
read, and read every one. of them 
when you have time, you-knowwhen. (When is after gradu
ation.) While here at Tech he 
lectured to HAC classes and 
numerous civic groups in the trif% 
state area, including a lecture in 
1955 before the Tech Community 
Forum on the subject The Pres
ervation of Our Civil Liberties. 
In 1956 he was a tour leader for 
CIT students who took a summer 
j art tour of European art centers.
This semester, Dr. Dawes is 
traveling through India, on a Ful! bright Lectureship. One of four 
lecturers, he is the only one in the 
; subject of history. Asked by th.
: Indian Government and the Wash
ington office, he is currently at the 
| disposal of the central Fulbright 
office, and will probably remain in 
India for the remainder of the 
school year.
Flight
During his flight this summer, 
over Japanv Dawsie (as-he is 
affectionately called) was bother
ed by an attack of stomach ulcers. 
Following his recovery in ^ 
Tokyo hospital, he and his wiffe 
continued their trip to New Delhi, 
where they were welcomed and 
orientated.
If the perception of Indian stu
dents is as keen as that of Tech 
students, they will realize that in 
Dr. Dawes, they have a fine lec
turer, historian, and friend. Let's 
hppe India doesnt decide to keep 
him; hes missed here at Tech.
t")

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 7,CARNEGIE TARTANPa* 5
to avoid spending money? (C) a statement 
unconsciously revealing an ultra-conservatiVe attitude? (D) an admission that 
you deserve as big an income as Pop?
Do you believe that whats good enough 
lor your father is good enough for you 
is (A) a remark indicating that Father had 
things pretty fancy? (B) a parental trick
Ronald Craig Elected Evening 
Student Council President
Industrious is the adjective which best describes Ronald 
Craig, Evening Student Council President for the current 
school year.
He assumed this responsibility after having had the ex
perience of being Vice Presides ?----------------------------------------------------------
of Council and Chairman of the 
Evening Students Banquet, a nota
ble accomplishment in itself.
Three Insignia Awards which he 
received from Council are evi
dence of the work he has done on 
Council projects.
After having graduated in 1950 
from his hometown high school of 
Scottdale, third in a class of onehundred thirty, Ron entered Tech 
to work for a B.S. in electrical 
engineering. At present he is en
gaged in fulfilling the require
ments for this degree which he 
hopes to attain by 1961.
Employed at Westinghouse Electric Corporation in East Pitts
burgh, Ronald works as a techni
cian in the network protector en
gineering section of the assembled 
switchgear and devices depart
ment.
Surprisingly enough, he still I 
finds time for his wife and two 
year old daughter Cinny and their 
chief hobby: a new home which 
they purchased in 1959 and are 
now in the process of landscaping.
Mums The Word
Your
Thistle
Expected Tuition Raise 
Due Next Semester
If you have been unaware of the potential increase in 
t\/i|ion rates, the 25% increase over 1958 rates may have come 
as a shock.as a shock. The anticipated raise to $10 per unit 
next semester will constitute a total of 39% increase over the 
1958 rates.
According to a recent survey^- 
by The Wall Street Journal the 
trend is nation-wide and includes
large and small colleges. Among 
those listed as increasing tuition 
rates are Boston University, San 
Jcfe State College, San Jose, Cali
fornia, the University of Detroit, 
and Mills College, Oakland, Cali
fornia. Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology foresees a possible 
boost in the Fall of 1960, as does 
Chatham College.
Follows Trend 
According to the report, the in
crease in college costs continue a I 
ir^d that began afte. World War j 
II. A four year liberal arts edu
cation at Harvard University now . 
costs about $11,000 compared to j 
$6,480 a decade ago. This figure : 
includes tuition, board, room, 
books, supplies, and allowances 
for personal expenses. At the 
smaller American International 
College in Springtield, Mass. a 
four year liberal arts education 
$7,328 compared to $4,188 a j 
decade ago.
Explanations 
The above mentioned 70% in
creases are in keeping with the | 
inflationary trend of today, how- | 
ever, explanations for increased | 
rates throughout the nation in- j 
elude expanded physical facilities, : 
air conditioned classrooms, build- j 
ings, and dormitories, as well as 
higher operating costs including > 
hi]#jer faculty salaries. Although 
night school students cannot en
joy the benefits of some of the I 
general improvements that are 
being made, they share the burden ; 
of the cost. Night school enroll- I 
ment remains high and in addition ; 
to helping the overall costs ofj 
operation the night school opera- j 
tion makes it possible for many | 
regular day students to obtain | 
necessary credits by attending 
n 0it classes. Full time night: 
school students have reason to be 
proud of their endeavors, not only | 
because of their sacrifices for  
self-improvement but because of 
their contribution to their com
munities and to the educational 
institutions which they attend.
Newman Club 
Vo Study Mass
On Sunday, October 11. the Tech 
night Newman Club will present 
the first of a two part series on the 
Mass. The speaker for the first 
week will be the well known Fa
ther Brennen whose Question 
Box appears weekly in the Pitts
burgh Catholic.
On October 18, there will be the 
^nd part of the program. It 
vi *1 consist of two movies, The 
Perfect Sacrifice Explained and 
The Mass is a Sacrifice. These 
movies are designed to illustrate 
the point which Father Brennen 
will bring out in his lecture.
The time is Sunday, October 11 
and 18 at 8:00 p.m. at Cardinal 
Newman Hall, 125 North Craig 
Street, Oakland, directly behind 
St. J?!' Cathedral.
Recent Positions 
Show International 
Development Need s
Two recent assignments reveal 
the widely diversified needs for 
international development.
Dr. J. C. Warner was named to 
the research advisory committee 
at Westinghouse Electric Corpora
tion. Charles Olrea, of the School 
of Printing Management has as
sisted the International Coopera
tion Administration in the devel
opment of technical institutions in 
Thialand (Siam).
Scientists as well as economists 
are playing increasingly important 
roles in the history of the world 
today. The United States educa
tional institutions presently are 
! stepping up studies in the fields 
of science, language, and liberal 
arts in a rather undefined goal 
but with the knowledge that in: ternational growth is dependent 
upon keeping pace in educational 
standards. The question is where 
the most stress should be placed.
Russia is currently placing 
greatest emphasis upon scientific 
development. 65% of their young 
adults, are interested in science as 
compared to 1$% in the United 
States. Their government is cur
rently spending vast funds to pro
vide the education desired by- its 
youth. This development is not 
limited to young men. At the Uni
versity of Moscow 51% of the 
enrollment consists of women stu
dents in scientific endeavors.
National growth is contingent 
rpon diversified interests. Scienti
fic development alone is not suf
ficient but it cannot be neglected 
if national security is endangered 
and universal progress remains a 
goal of mankind.
P&jHLBESr/
v WEBSTER'S 
NEW [WORLD] DICTIONARY
of the American language, College Edition 
more entries (142,000) 
more examples of usage 
more idiomatic expressions 
more and fuller etymologies 
more and fuller synonymies 
most up-to-date
Available ot your college tor#
THI WORLD PUBLISHING COMPANY
Cleveland and New York
Do J6u Think /or Yburself?
(PUT THESE QUESTIONS ON YOUR BRAIN-PAN AND SEE IF THEY SIZZLE*)
The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows 
ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MANS FILTER... A SMOKING MANS TASTEI
>1 !>;>&, Bio^n A WillitfUMton terr
jfc This page edited by Evening School Students of the
^ Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editors........................................ Mary Alice Peterson and Eleanor Iwinski
is the best of its kind ever developed, for 
finest tobacco taste. A thinking man's filler.
And they know Viceroy delivers a rich, 
satisfying taste thats never been equaled. 
A smoking mans taste.
A thinking mans filter ... a smoking 
mans taste. How about you trying 
Viceroys?
*By the way, if you checked (C) in three out 
of four of these questions... man, you think 
for yourself!
Would you choose a filter 
cigarette because (A) of 
what is said about the to
bacco? (B) you could hardly 
tell the filter is there? (C) 
t has the most advanced 
filter design? (D) it claims 
to filter well because it 
tastes weak?
AD BQ CD DQ
Why do men and women who think for 
themselves usually smoke \ ieeroy? Be
cause theyve found out the Viceroy filter
If you saw a man on his 
hands and knees in the 
street, searhing for some
thing, would you (A) try to 
find it before he does? (B) 
tell him it isnt worth get
ting run over for? (C) ask 
him what hes doing down 
there? (D) offer to buy it 
from him when he finds it?
AD BQ CD DQ
Do you think that the old 
saw an apple a day keeps 
the doctor away is (A) 
simply a trick to get you to 
eat apples? (B) rough on 
the doctor? (C) a health 
precept that can apply to 
other fruit, too? (D) ap
plesauce?
Homoeooo

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 7, 1959cccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccciccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccnggc
CUT
4*VOL
COSTS
Sheraton Hotels
4 BEL AIRSPriced just above Chevys thriftiest models! Like all 
Chevies, they give you the famed Hi-Thrift 6 or a new Economy 
Turbo-Fire V8 as standard equipment, 4-door Bel Air sedan above.
STUDENT-FACULTY
DISCOUNTS
Here s money-saving news
for students, faculty and all 
other college personnel. Dur
ing weekends and college 
vacations, Sheraton offers 
you special low rates even 
lower rates when two or more 
occupy the same room. 
Special group rates are pro
vided for athletic teams, 
clubs, other college organ
izations.
You get these discounts at 
any of Sheratons 54 hotels 
in the U.S.A., Hawaii and 
Canada. Just present your 
Sheraton I.D. card when you 
register. To get a Sheraton 
I.D. card, contact:
Mr. Pat Green 
College Relation Dept.
Sheraton Corp.
470 Aatlantic Avenue 
Boston. Mass*.
SUPERLATIVE 
NEW CHEVROLETS 
FOR 1960!
See your local authorized Chevrolet dealer
4 IMPALASAll the car you ever yearned for! Each embodies dis
tinctive treatment inside and out, with triple-unit rear lights, fingertip 
door releases and safety-reflector armrests. Impala sport sedan above.
5 STATION WAGONSStyled to carry you away, with the kind of 
cargo space to carry away most anything you want to take with you! 
Thrifty 2-door Brookwood above.
Tap nt ii 1 imirnrT f-l Mu* Ston Ctovy Stow-Swwhm MC TVPat Boo Ctovy ShowroMiiW^C A8C TV-Rwt Stott Ctovy Spciai Friday. {Motor I,CBS IDL
Tartan Adding Literary ColumnNew Promotions 
Are Announced 
Bv Dr. Warner
Several academic promotions 
were announced by Dr. Warner
To Mirror Students Thoughts
The want of an outlet for creativeness other than in the 
laboratory sciences has long been felt at Tech, and has been 
conspicuous in its absence, at least for the last two years. Var
ious literary schemes and magazines have been started at one this summer- In ordei to devote 
time or another by different student bodies; that they have increased time to research- Drall failed to continue publication^--------------------------------------------:-----------
is not evidence of the lack of need the appearance of a column dedi_ 
for such platforms for self expres- cated to giving aH thoge who wigh 
sion, but rather that, perhaps, the and want to be he^rd the chance 
formal literary magazine format to do go
was at fault. The Tartan feels that _____________________
it could, because of its more pli
able nature, provide the solution
and become, in the process, repre- To Visit C arneirie 
sentative of more than just the t?
U.S.N. Recruiters
school of engineering and science.
Self Expression
We intend, therefore, to initiate 
a column for literary self expres
sion in the school newspaper, as 
soon as contributions of a suitable 
standard are submitted. There is
The U.S. Navy Recruiting Sta
tion in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
announced today that a U.S. Navy 
Information Team will visit the 
campus on October 13, 1959, to 
talk to students who are interested 
in serving as commissioned officers 
; in the U.S. Navy after graduation.
Robert Mehl relinquished the 
helm of the Met. E. Dept, to Dr. 
Charles McCabe. Dr. McCabe 
worked on the Manhattan Project 
at Oak Ridge during the war and 
has been at Tech since 1951.
New full professors are Drs. 
Lawrence N. Canjar and Robert 
R. Rothfus, both professors in the 
College of E&S. Other E&S pro
motions include: Associate Pro
fessors David Archer, Richard 
Cutkosky, Eber Gaylord, George 
Kirland, Francis Manning, Mordecai Rubin, Donald Wregard, 
and Gaurang Yodh.
Fine Arts Promotion
Several members of the Colseope here for anything ranging ; The information team will be lo- 1 lee of Fine Arts have been Pro~
Emerson Club 
To Have Dinner 
Anti Discussion
Why should you be concerned 
about Martin Heidegger? Join the 
Emerson Club discussion group on 
Sunday evening, October 11, to 
hear Dr. Bernard J. Boelen, 
philosophy department of duquesne University, speak on this 
subject. Dinner (cost: 50 cents) 
will be served at 5:00 p.m. in the 
Schweitzer Room of the First 
Unitarian Church at Ellsworth 
and Morewood. Dr. Boelens talk 
will follow at 6:00, and the eve
ning will be concluded with^Va 
social hour for dancing ,singing, 
playing games, etc.
^rmmeA tsU .U lstNoaby Dick Bibier
from a one-act play (even a three 
or five, if the author does not ob
ject to serialization) to a poem, 
from a regular criticism of the 
studio productions in the drama 
school, to a short story or an ac
count of impressions received from 
reading a book or play which, bemoted. Philip Catelinet has been 
promoted to assistant professor, as 
have Morto Shanchez. Robert 
Gabriel, and Robert Rabinowitz. 
Robert Burdett was appointed as
sociate professor of Architecture.
In the division of Humanistic 
and Social Studies new professors
cated in the front of A.H. from 
10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Two major programs are avail
able to qualified male graduates.
They are the Officer Candidate 
School (OCS), and a flight train
ing program, the Aviation Officer 
Candidate (ACC). To allow men 
ing personal, might not otherwise fQ rep0rt for active duty as soon are David Gidman, Thomas Meebe set down. The Tartan already as, possible after graduation, sen- han, Ludwig Schaefer, Eugene 
represents the student body s ac- jors may apply for these pro- Boyer, Anna Fisk, Benjamin 
tions and activities from now on gi-arns af any time during their Kleinmuntz, and Robert Lane.
senior year. New associate professors are RobA Womens Officer Training ert Krug and Emanuel Salgaller. 
Program is currently available for j Eight new instructors were apa limited number of juniors and pointed; they are Arthur Broce, 
seniors who may be interested in Clyde Clements, Harold Lee, 
obtaining a commission upon Claud Thompson, Dan Wheaton, 
graduation.
Anyone wishing to discuss the 
various programs which the Navy 
has to offer is cordially invited to 
meet with the information team.
it hopes to mirror, also, the stu
dents minds and thoughts.
We feel that it is of primary 
importance in a specializing school 
like ours that the language of cul
ture, common to us all, should 
provide a unifying influence. The 
dialects of different professions 
may not be understood by all. for 
there are vast chasms of di
verging interests and objectives 
that separate one person from 
another. But the language of 
thought and expression, requiring 
only that one individual try to 
understand his contemporary, is 
that which can make these differ
ences take their rightful place in 
the cosmos of human creation.
This, then, is the justification for
David Fowler, Seymour Mandel
baum, and Alexander Mylonas.
Charles W. Olree has been ap
pointed assistant professor of 
Printing Management.
tngmeroi OL FRAT IS GETTING BACK ON ITS' fET SINC-X cwavlyve
HERE NOW ARE
Nearest to perfection a tow-priced 
car ever camel
3 BISCAYNESThese (honest to gosh) are the lowest priced of the 
60 Chevrolets. They bring you the same basic beauty and relaxing 
roominess as the other models. 4-door Biscayne sedan above.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 7,CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
... the right more
I;
I
II
II
!S!4
In the winning fashion of Arrow knit shirtsyou 
sport championship style. The flattering collar 
features the buttondown in front and center back. 
Built-in comfort, enduring fit in 100% cotton knit 
interesting patterns in long or short sleeves.
$5.00 up.
-ARROWloch Saturday tee the NCAA foot
ball "Gome of the Week"-NBC TV 
sponiored by ARROW.
C*W *9  ?SU t,
Super Sub!
Its been said that the atomic submarine 
"Nautilus stays submerged so long that it 
only surfaces to let the crew re-enlist.
Perhaps for this reason, the Navy has taken 
valuable space aboard the Nautilus for the 
only soft-drink vending machine in the entire 
submarine fleet.
Naturally (or you wouldnt hear about it 
from us) its a Coca-Cola machine. And not 
unexpectedly, re-enlistments are quite 
respectable.
Rugged lot, those submariners. Great 
drink, Coke!SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled under outhority of The Coca-Colo Compony by
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLIN3 CO. 
5*22 Central Ave. HI 1-7011
!
I
si
sSsI
Isis
II I
Introducing Travel Service To The College
University Travel Service
Travel arrangements made for individuals or groups
Go By: AIRLINES 
STEAM SHIPS 
BUSES 
To Domestic or Foreign Points
- ALSO -
CHARTERS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS AVAILABLE
No Service Charge 
Coll Ma 1-3500 - Ext. 7205-6 Ma 1-5915 
IN BLDG. E SCHENLEY APARTMENTS
CIT expects that the same policy 
will untimately become universi
ty-wide by being made applicable 
to all undergraduate students. 
Consonant with the foregoing CIT 
will not hereafter approve the 
group occupancy of housing not 
CIT-owned, by a fraternity 01 
other undergraduate social group, 
other than the. present building 
which any such group now occu
pies.
Dr. Warner concluded by say
ing that the two chapters pees 
* ently outside the system, Kappa 
Sigma and Theta Xi, will be re
quired to come into the system 
when they wish or must have 
housing other than that which they 
now occupy, if they wish to con
tinue as chapters at Carnegie 
Tech.
Student Congress, Mortar Board, and Omicron Delta KappaThe Leaders On Campus
Resolution--
rcontinued from page 1] 
operation, in whic'n ten of the 
twelve fraternity chapters have 
joined voluntarily, Dr. Warner 
added that it was clear to the ad
ministration that Tech could not 
adhere to sound and equitable 
policies and attain its objectives 
for a construi_v.ve fraternity sys
tem at Carnegie Tech without, in 
due course, having all fraternity 
chapters at Tech housed in Tech 
owned fraternity dormitories.
Consequently, ne stated the ad
ministration has recommended, 
and the trustees have approved 
the following policy: It was voted 
on recommendation of the Presi
dent and the Dean of the Divi
sion of Student Personnel and 
Welfare to adopt the following 
policy statement: For some years 
past, CITs student housing policy 
has required that all resident 
women undergraduates live in 
CIT-owned housing, subject to in
dividual exceptions which may be 
made in special circumstances.

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 8CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 7, 1959
Carnegie Tartan
Tech
Faces
Thiel
Tech Strives 
For Victory
The coaching staff took advan
tage of last weeks open date by 
using the week to polish up Techs 
own offense and defense rather 
than prepare for this weeks game 
with Thiel. The Tartans were able 
to correct many of their mistakes 
after reviewing movies of the 
game with St. Vincent.
The fullback problem seems to 
be solved with Curt Burrell, who 
combines speed, power and shifti
ness. In addition, Dale Stewart 
should be ready by this Saturday 
and Gary Schwerzler has continu
ed to show progress in his con
version from guard.
Problems
The immediate problem con
fronting 'Tech is at tailback, 
where both John Zinni and Fur
man Smith are currently slowed 
down by injuries. Another pro
blem has been finding a lineback
er versatile enough to contain a 
wide running attack and defend 
against the short pass. The Tech 
secondary must also strengthen it
self against long throws, like the 
two which gave St. Vincent its 
two touchdowns.
The open date also gave the 
coaches a chance to see what 
shape some of our opponents are 
in. Thiel lost their game to West
ern Reserve, but Grove City, 
Geneva and Westminster won 
rather easily.
New Faces
It seems worthy to mention 
some of the newcomers with 
whom Tech fans may not yet be 
familiar. Mike Chuhran, who 
played guard here two years ago, 
is doing fine this year at left 
tackle and linebacker. Three 
other linemen looking for first 
year letter are soph tackle Bill 
Gilfillan, frosh guard Jim Morris 
and center Don Monty.
New ends who are likely to 
win letters are Cris Parsons, a 
soph being used at both end posi
tions, Pete Schlegel, who has been 
handling kick-offs and point con
versions, and Bob Rosche, a fine 
receiver who will also be playing 
basketball this winter.
The backfield has also been 
boosted by new faces. Furman 
Smith, whose father coaches at 
Indiana Teachers, has done a fine 
job in spelling Zinni at tailback. 
Two Sophs have given defensive 
strength to linebacker positions. 
They have given defensive 
strength to linebacker positions. 
They are fullback Jack Sloan and 
wingback Jim Selig. Two new 
tailbacks who may be seeing quite 
a bit of action against Thiel are 
soph Ken Sutherland and frosh 
Gerry Kosko.
A quick appraisal of the team 
shows that they are following pre
season predictions very closely, 
with unpredicted luck included. 
If they continue in this fashion 
they should wind up with at 
least six victories in eight games, 
the two uncertain contests being 
Geneva and Westminster.
IM Football
Off to
Good Start
->
Last Years Intramural Football 
Powers Keep Winning W ays
Im Football action has begun a new year with most of 
the pre-season favorites proving their worth.
Back with the team of last years starters SAE roared to 
the front of the Giant League. All school quarterback Chuck
Vodvarka, completing 14 of his 20^ --------------------------------------J -
passes for TD's, led his team to j two TDs for the victors. No other 
successive 54-0 and 38-3 victories . games were played in the league
Civens
Fraternities and Independ
ents: Dont Forget To Order 
Your Mums For Homecoming 
From The Cwens!
Tartan Cross Country Runners 
Win Home Meet Last Saturday
The 1959 cross-country season will enter its busiest phase 
in the next eight days. Tomorrow, Tech hosts Geneva at 4:00 
p.m. on the Schenley Park course. Saturday, the harriers host 
Grove City at 11:30 a.m.
If the Tartans survive this week without a defeat, their 
streak will be seriously endangered next week when they 
oppose Case Tech in Cleveland and Slippery Rock here.
Last Saturday, the harriers ?----------------------------------------------------------
came up with an impressive win 
in a triangular meet. The score 
19-34 against the Jeannette Har
riers, and 19-40 against Duquesne.
Bruce Dobras led the victory 
with a winning time of 22 min
utes over the 3.9 mile course. Bob 
Dickinson of Jeannette was sec
ond, one second behind.
The rest of Techs first four fol
lowed Dickinson. Glenn Klepac 
was third in 23:04, Pat Chamay
fourth, and Bill Anderson sixth.
Soph George Caldwell was fifth 
man. capably filling a gap that has 
been a source of worry ofr the 
team. This years schedule is as 
follows:
Oct. 3Jeannette-Duquesne . .Home
Oct. 5Waynesburg ....................Away
Oct. 8Geneva ..............................Home
Oct. 10Grove City ....................Home
Oct. 13Case .....................................Away
Oct. 15Slippery Rock ...............Home
Oct. 21Westminster ....................Away
Oct. 30St. Francis .....................Home
Nov. 5West Virginia ..................Home
Nov. 13W.P.I.A.C. Meet ____
over TDP R and Clyde St. Half
back Bob Miller picked up four 
TDs for the SAEs and end Paul 
Pheneger gathered in three.
PKA downed Obelisk 17-12 in 
other Giant League action. Bill 
Hall ran and passed PKA to vic
tory in a tight contest. Fred 
Schooley scored both TDs for 
Obelisk.
DTD rolled to an easy 27-6 final 
over Clyde St. in the leagues only 
other game.
Eagle League 
ATO A gained the lead in the 
Eagle League after downing a 
stubborn SAE C 17-2 and Citcom 15-7. The Citcom game Was 
probably the most exciting played 
this week. A Grebos-Nowak TD 
pass in the fourth quarter pulled 
the game out of the fire for ATO 
who had trailed by one or two 
points throughout the second half. 
Lack of substitutes hurt Citcom.
Elsewhere in the Eagle. League 
GSIA defeated TDP 19-4 in a 
tighter game than the score indi
cates. Earl Benner and Tony Petran starred for the victors; Bimbo 
Roth for the losers.
Bear League 
PKT jumped to the top of the 
Bear League by virtue of its 33-6 
victory over TX. Friedland scored
this week.
Opening week play in the Steeler League saw both the Met Grads 
and Beta Theta Pi gain victories 
at the expense of the Newman 
Club. Last Years champs rolled 
easily to a 21-5 finish, while New
man Club gave the Betas li'"e 
more trouble in a 28-14 contest. 
Ben Patz made several nifty 
catches for the Grads; while 
Woody Clark passed well for BTP. 
Ron Spann looked good for the 
two-time losers.
Tartan Announces 
Sports Writers
Touch Football.... Bob Mille*
Basketball ..............John Scango
...............................Paul Sebastian
Softball.......................Bob Miller
Bowling .....................Bob Reber
Volleyball ..................Bob Reber
Bridge .....................John Scango
Co-Rec. Badminton
....................................John Scango
Call Pool ...............John Scango
Water Polo............John Scango
Table Tennis ., .John Scango
Chess ...............Sherm Chottineri
Co-Rec Volleyball 
.............................Sherm Chottiner
New breakfast drink 
you can keep in your room!
"Igot "oohen I get up so early 
to study that a glass of TANG 
tides me over until breakfast. Its 
deliciousand wakes you up bet
ter than a cold shower.
ALWAYS HUNGRY HAL: I'mabefore-and-after-meal TANG man. 
It really fills in where fraternity 
food leaves off. Buy two jars. 
Your friends need vitaminC.too!
LAST MINUTE LOUIE: A fast 
TANG and I can make it through 
class... til I have time for break
fast. Fast? All you have to do is 
add to cold water and stir.
NEW! INSTANT!
Just mix with cold water!
DEAD BEAT DON: I have to put 
in a lot of hours on my Lit. But 
since I have TANG on my book
shelf it really keeps me going 
even through the longest hours.
MORE VITAMIN C 
THAN ORANGE JUICE!
t*
GET TANG FOR YOUR 
BOOKSHELF SOON
TANG ha9 real wake-up taste, 
more vitamin C than fresh or 
frozen orange or grapefruit juice. 
Plus vitamin A. TANG keeps 
without refrigeration so you can 
keep TANG right in your room.
A product of Qnral Food Kltchon*
wanted: Characters and captions for campus TANG-ites (like 
above). Must relate to TANG. Will pay $25 for every entry used.
Address: TANG College Contest, Dept. GRM, Post Division, Battle 
Creek, Mich. (Entries must be postmarked before Dec. 15,1959.)
