r
VOL. 49No. 12 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., DEC. 13, 1955
Errors
Campus Vacuum: 
Tech Life Lacks 
intellectual Urge
By Stephanie Mackay
Is intellectual curiosity missing 
^ the Tech campus? This was the 
problem discussed by the Under
graduate Advisory Committee at 
their fourth meeting of the year 
last Friday. Present at the dinner 
were the five deans of the schools 
as well as the regular members 
of the U.A.C.
The problem may relate both 
to the classroom attitude and the 
general attitude of the student 
fH|dy. The fact that an engineer 
will pursue a class problem only 
to the point where he is assured 
of an adequate mark (B or C) re
veals a lack of professional curi
osity. And the weekend beer par
ties are indicative of a certain 
shallowness apparently typical of 
our intracurricular life.
It was felt that a person who 
comes to college is entitled to a 
university education. If the per-f
n doesnt seek it for himself, of 
urse, there is relatively little 
that can be done. On the other hand the individual may have a 
Continued on Page 8]
UMOC Elections 
Scheduled To Last 
All This Week
Are you tired of voting for beau
tiful girls in the queen elections? 
Here is your chance to relax from 
that unpleasant duty of deciding 
which girl is the best looking, and 
instead decide which man is the 
worst looking; all in fun, of course.
And for those of you who have 
a suppressed desire to stuff a ballot 
box, here is your cnance. Voting 
in the Ugliest Man on Campus 
contest is unlimited. You can stuff 
the ballot box to your hearts con
tent. The ballots are just money 
deposited in the bottle associated 
with the desired candidate. Each 
penny counts one vote, but of 
course higher denominations of 
coin and currency are willingly ac
cepted. We ask only that no checks 
or pledges be given.
To Benefit Campus Chest
The proceeds from this contest 
will be donated to the Campus 
Chest. The contest is sponsored by 
Alphi Phi Omega, the service hon
orary, which will man the polling 
place in Skibo from 11:30 to 1:30 
every day this week.
Entries were made last week, the 
only conditions being that the can
didate must be male, and a stu
dent at Tech. Faculty members 
were barred in order to retain 
some degree of competition.
The winner of the contest will 
be presented an Ugly Mug in 
recognition of his gift of nature 
(or influential backing.) This mug 
will hold three quarts of beer, 
enough to make our Winner not 
only' the Ugliest, but also the 
Drunkest Man on Campus.
The relative standings of the 
candidates will be posted in Skibo 
each day this week, and announced 
over WRCT each night. The win
ner will be announced sometime 
in the future.
There are two errors in the 
schedule of new rents for 
Carnegie Dormitories printed 
in the TARTAN of December 
6. 1955.
The rate for single rooms in 
Boss' and McGill Halls should 
be $284, not $264 per man.
The rate for a corner double 
room on the second and third 
floors in Scobell Hall should 
be $224, not $200 per man.
Tuition To Increase
 _____________
More F unds Needed T o Maintain 
High CIT Technical Standards
The increasing cost of instruction has forced a $120 yearly raise 
in tuition here at Tech, President J. C. Warner announced today.
The raise applies to all departments on campus, and will become 
effective in September, 1956. This means that the new rates, which 
.elude all fees, will be $700 per4 
year at MMCC, and $800 per year 
for all other Carnegie colleges 
and schools. Rates for evening 
courses will be increased to $7.20 
per unit, an increase of eighty 
cents.
In a letter sent to all Carnegie 
day students and their parents,
Dr. Warner said Rather than 
raise tuition, -we have sought 
other means to meet increased 
i%penses, such as gifts and grants 
from industry, foundations, alum
ni, and friends. We shall continue 
to need and seek such support.
But a careful analysis of our 
situation shows that tuition in
come must now bear part of the 
increased cost of instruction if 
the quality of our education is 
not to suffer.
Rise In Costs
The general overall rise in 
0ucation costs is the chief cause 
for the increase. In spite of con
stant efforts to keep all opera
tions as efficient as possible, the 
necessary expenditures for in
struction and other educational 
services have had to be increased 
in order to maintain the quality 
of the Carnegie Tech educational 
program.
For the past few years, there 
has been an increasing gap be^een the income from tuition 
and the endowment fund and the 
cost of instruction. The new in
crease is expected to partially fill 
up this gap. Dr. Warner also 
pointed out that tuition will now 
meet 59% of the educational 
costs, an increase of approxi
mately 7% of the total.
Tuition Up Elsewhere
Reference to tuition charges at 
M>mparable institutions shows 
'Siat they have also been forced 
[Continued on page 7]
Fee Pre-Payment 
Suggested For All 
Eligible Students
To help reduce the amount of 
time spent by students in the reg
istration area, a plan for pre-pay
ment fees will be put Into effect 
for the Spring Semester of 1955-56. 
All students may participate ex
cept the following:
Students who are carrying re
duced schedules. (Those carrying 
less than 24 units).
Those students who are not ex
cluded and who wish to participate 
in the plan will proceed as follows:
At any time during the period of 
January 9 through January 25, 
students may stop at the Regis
trars Office and make their pay
ments. However, it must be under
stood that for dormitory students, 
the dormitory fee must be paid at 
the same time. It also should be 
understood that all students, 
whether participating or not, must 
appear at the registration area the 
same as always to complete schedMilifary Ball Queen
Ginny Tennant, the candidate of C Tower, is escorted from 
the platform by Cadet Captain Joseph Swoboda after receiving her 
Honorary Regimental Commander medal.
* * * * * * 
Ginny Tennant Chosen 
Queen Of Military Ball
A large crowd turned out for the annual Military Ball which 
was held last Saturday in the Mens Gym. Decorations for the dance 
included the national colors, a display of the flags of the United 
Nations, and various pieces of artillery placed around the edges of
?the dance floor. The dance, spon
sored by Scabbard and Blade andW riting Contest 
Is Sponsored 
By Technical
It was announced December 6 
that the Carnegie Technical is go
ing to run a writing contest for 
undergraduates. The purpose of the 
contest is to give the student body 
an opportunity to express itself in 
technical writing and in oral pre
sentation. The contest will be di
vided into two parts: first, a writ
ten part in which all the papers 
submitted will be read and judged 
by four prominent engineers and 
several members of Techs English 
faculty; second, the ten best pa
pers will then be read by their 
writers at a presentation confer
ence.
Five Winners
After the presentation the three 
winners and the two receivers of
ules and fill out IBM forms, but honorable mentions will be anPan Hel Plans 
Christmas Party 
For Frosli Women
For the first time the senior Panhel in conjunction with the junior 
Panhel is holding a pre-Christmas 
party from 2:00-4:00, December 18, 
for the freshman and transfer 
women of Carnegie Tech. In past 
years it has been the practice of 
the sororities to present an as
sembly after final examinations.
This party is not a rushing func
tion. Its purposes are to clear any 
misconceptions the women may 
have about sororities and sorority 
life.
Dean Hackett will speak. There 
will also be informal talks by rep
resentatives of all seven sororities. 
The freshmen and transfer wom
en are asked to bring forth any 
questions they may have. An open 
discussion is planned following 
which refreshments will be served. |
the students who have prepaid 
their fees will not be required to 
go to the Womens Gym where the 
Cashier will be set up.
nounced. They shall receive five 
prizes of $50, $30, $20, $10, nd 
$10 in the order they placed. Each 
[Continued on page 7]
CIT Drama Produces Lafcadio,
An Adaptation Of A Gide Novel
By Barbara Conan'
The third* production of the drama department will be Lafca
dio, a dramatization of Andre Gide's Les Caves du Vatican by I David Stea'David 
Arthur Wilmurt. Mr. Wilmurt, who teaches playwrighting at Tech, | joseph D. Batson.
was urged to write this *lay by Jerome Mayer, who produced  - ----------
Wilmurts translation of Andrei 
Obeys Noah in 1935 and Wil
Pershing Rifles, this year fea
tured the music of Brad Hunt and 
his orchestra from 9:00 to 12:30. 
Major Curry led the traditional 
grand march.
The intermission featured the 
decoration of the queen of the 
ball and her court. Ginny Ten
nant, fresnman music student 
from Lavallette, New Jersey, was 
elected Queen by the vote of the 
ROTC students. She was awarded 
her Honorary Colonel, Regiment
al Commander medal by Col. 
Campbell, professor of military 
science. Sandy Ruben and Caroletta Valencourt were also decora
ted by Col. Campbell, each be
coming an Honorary Lieutenant 
Colonel and Battalion Command
er. The honor guard of Scabbard 
and Blade provided a grand arch 
for the queens with their sabers.
Ed Karcher was awarded the 
Joe Pash trophy for the most 
valuable football player of the 
year selected by Techs football 
team.
Intermission time also included 
the call of Scabbard and Blade, 
the advanced course ROTC hon
orary. The following were called 
to Scabbard and Blade: Walter H. 
Christiansen, Richard Flock, Lyle 
C. Peck, Richard K. Frill, Richard 
G. Abraham, Albert F. Harsch, 
David L. Shuck, Lawrence S. 
Beresik, Theodore J. Fleming, 
Woodward C. Carter, Ronald S. 
Coleman, Terry E. Sharp, Donald 
Gross, John K. Burchard, Kerry 
J. Aquardo, Louis A. Salvador, 
Louis J. Teti, Lewis C. Sowell, 
W. Bushmire,
murts own play Young Couple 
Wanted in 1940. Lafcadio is at the 
present time being considered for 
Broadway production.
Gide, shortly before his death, 
made his own dramatization of 
the noVel which was produced by 
the Comedie Franaise in 1950, 
but it was not considered suitable 
for American production. So Wil
murt and Mayer obtained permis
sion from Gides heirs to write 
a new play from the novel. The 
play is a satirical farce set in 
1893 and deals with the adven
tures of a young man who tries 
to lead a completely independent 
life.
Unique Staging
Production-w ise Lafcadio 
should be really spectacular. It 
is in fourteen scenes and requires 
two revolving stages which will 
be used for the first time at Car
negie Tech. The settings were de
signed by Mary Weaver, lighting 
by William A. Nelson, and cos
tumes by Michael Pollock. The 
play was directed by Allen Flet
cher.
[Continued on page 7]
t it i o i I Women Can Now Kev. Hugh b. Clark w,  # . T/.. v * . . Have lutorina viaAt Ainas Assembly Di.T ^J ! i An I a if LrammaThis year the traditional Christ- ., Tutoring for freshmen womanmas assem y wi be presented on | began last week under the sponTuesday, December 20, in the Fine j sorship of Carnegie Techs junior 
Arts building. Reverend Hugh S. j womens honorary, Phi Tau GamClark, pastor of the Church of the ma- ver 40 freshmen have apRedeemer of Squirrel Hill and ! pl*dH ^ ^ tutrinf. Programwhich includes instruction in alc^rnegie Tech s chaplain, will de- gebra, physics, chemistry, English, 
liver the message. The Christmas ' and history of western civilization, 
story according to Luke will be At a meeting in Morewood Garread by Claude Jenkins. j ^ens Wedgewood Dining Room
c. * ^ Ilast Tuesday, the following juniorsKalmanoff s Song of Peace and were named chairmen ofVhe five
Gloria will be sung by the Camer- areas of instruction. Freshman 
on Choir; the Carnegie Student women interested in receiving the 
Chorus has chosen to sing Oh Hoiy | tutoring service should contact
Night and Chanson Joyeuse De Jan Renshaw for instruction in 
Noel. The musical part of the pro- algebra, Nancy Bloom, physics, 
gram will also include several tra- | Patricia Briggs, chemistrv, Steditional Christmas carols to be | phanie Mackay, western civiliza-sung by the entire audience.tion, and Evelyn Alessio, English,
Dr. H. K. Kirkpatrick will offer I It was also agreed that Phi Tau 
the prayer. The assembly will close j Gamma would collaborate with 
with the Hallalujah Chorus. from | Delta Skull, the junior mens honHandels Messiah. The assembly is i orary, in plans for the third Tech 
non-sectarian and all st icents are ! Leadership Conference which will 
invited to attend. I be held in February.

---------------------------------------------------

<
Pace 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 13, IMS
YM-YW Conference
The Ecumenical student con
ference is about to assemble in 
a very short time at Ohio Uni
versity in Athens, Ohio. Two 
thousand students, half of whom 
are from foreign lands, will dis
cuss the responsibility of the 
church in our revolutionary 
world. The conference will ex
tend from the twenty-seventh of 
this month to January 1, 1956.
At the present time only eight 
Tech students are planning to at
tend this conference. It is hoped 
that this number will be expand
ed to twenty students, giving 
Tech an ample representation.
For further information con
cerning the conference, or finan
cial aid, contact either Sam Gib
son or Miss Ruth Shinn.
AIEE-IRE-ASME Meeting
Mr. Giles Strikroth, manager of 
the electronics department in the 
engineering division at Glenn L. 
Martin Aircraft Corporation, will 
arrive on Techs campus on 
Thursday, December 15, to speak 
to the joint meeting of the AIEEIRE-ASME student branches. Mr. 
Strickroths subject will be What 
the engineer does in the aircraft 
industry.
This is the second of the com
bined electrical and mechanical 
engineers meetings on what the 
engineer does in various indus
tries. The meeting will be held 
in room 100 PH at 8 p.m. After 
the meeting refreshments will be 
served in a local fraternity house. 
Sophomores and freshmen are 
particularly invited to these 
meetings since it will be at least 
four years before the AIEE-IRE 
sponsors a talk on this subject.
Game Theory
Here is an item for those with 
an interest in mathematics, pro
fessional or otherwise. Dr. Ben
son of the math department is 
giving a talk on The Minimax 
Theorem of Game Theory* on 
this Friday. The talk will be 
given in conjunction with a 
meeting of Pi Mu Epsilon (mathe
matical honorary for undergrad
uates). It will be designed as an 
introduction for those who know 
nothing about game theory, so it 
should be an excellent opportu
nity to learn something about a 
new and fascinating field. The 
meeting is scheduled for Friday, 
December 16, at 4:30 in EH 1112.
Home Ec Club
The teachers, students, and 
guests of the Home Economics 
Club celebrated the festive season 
at their annual dinner last Thurs
day night. The delicious turkey 
meal was served by the girls of 
the senior quantity cookery class. 
The bright tree, decoratea table, 
and candles reflected the spirit of 
Christmas. The girls enjoyed sing
ing familiar Christmas carols, 
Silent Night, It Came Upon a 
Midnight Clear, and Deck the 
Halls. The guest speaker from the 
Mt. Lebanon Presbyterian Church, 
Mr. Cassel, gave a talk on the 
kind of peace in heart people 
should have at Christmas time.
Tri Delta Bridge
Delta Delta Delta is sponsoring 
a benefit bridge January 7, 1956, 
from 2:00 to 4:30 p.m. in the Car
negie Union. Proceeds will go to 
their scholarship fund to which 
any woman is eligible. Tickets are 
$1.00 and can be purchased from 
any Tri-Delt.
5o million times a day 
at home, at work or while at 'play
Theres 
nothing 
like
OTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY IV
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBUEGH 
57** Ceter Aveaa* Hllani 1-561
W  r*9iMf*d ird*hhand T riDel tBg COCA-COLA COMPANY
Phi Mu Alpha
Two student recitals- will be 
presented the next week by Phi 
Mu Alpha Sinfonia, honorary 
music fraternity in the Exhibi
tion Hall, College of Fine Arts. 
The first, on Sunday evening, De
cember 18, at 8:30 p.m., will fea
ture performances of two organ 
majors, Edmund Ladouceur and 
Roy Lash. The program includes: 
Two Choral Preludes 
on In Dulci
Jubilo... .Marcel Dupre Bach
Noel in G...............Louis Daquin
La Nativit...........Jean Langlais
Prelude & Fugue No.l,
in C minor.........Mendelssohn
Edmund Ladoceur
Passacaglia ............... Buxtehude
Prelude and Fugue in
A Minor ...........................Brahms
Andante Cantabile. .Frank Ellis 
Roy Lash, Organ 
The second Phi Mu recital will 
be presented on Tuesday evening, 
December 20, at 8;30 p.m. The 
program will include:
Sonato Op. 5,
No. 2 ...........................Beethoven
Irene Schaal, cello 
En Harriet Chang, piano
Kinereth .............................. Lavri
Boa Dodi .............................. Lavri
Agala ..................................... Cohen
Helene Shifrin, Contralto % 
Richard Osiier, piano
Nocturne......... Eugene Phillips
Toccata ........... Eugene Phillips
Conrad Susa, piano
Big New Union To Grace Cut 
According To Announced Plans
At the Student Council meeting last Wednesday Dr. Dale Strick 
announced the tentative plans for the new Carnegie Union, whi^^ 
is to be larger than Donner Hall and is to be located at the end 
of the Cut where Web Hall now stands. No definite date has been
*set for construction to begin, 
since permanent plans must be 
drawn up, and a way to raise 
$1,500,000, the estimated cost, 
must be found. /
Tentative plans call for Union 
to contain 84,450 square feet as 
compared with about 66,000 in 
Donner Hall. This space will \ 
divided primarily into offices and 
meeting, service, and recreation
al rooms. Alumni and student 
organizations will be given rooms 
for meetings, the student publi
cations will have working space, 
and there will be photographic 
rooms and a radio and TV sta
tion.
Plans also call for a dance 
floor-auditorium about half the 
size of the gym, game rooms, anO 
student and faculty lounges. 
Space for bowling alleys was 
mentioned, but at present, bowl
ing is not included in the plans. 
Other new features are special 
service centers such as a barber 
shop, beauty shoi>, check rooms, 
and a laundry and cleaning col
lection agency. There will also be 
[Continued on page 8]
Dean Rice Speaks 
At Tech Forum 
Tonight At Eight
Dean Norman L. Rice of the 
College of Fine Arts will speak 
this evening on The Indispensible Ingredient at the Tech 
Community Forum.
Dean Rices discussion will veer 
somewhat from the subjective na
ture of the previous discussions 
in the series. Although the exact 
content of his talk cannot be re
vealed without hampering the en
joyment of it by the audience, it 
can be safely said that students 
and faculty of all colleges will 
find the evening well spent.
Dean Rice was formerly Dean 
of the College of Fine Arts of 
Syracuse. His work, both there 
and here, has been characterized 
by a constant attempt to improve 
educational methods.
The Forum, as usual, will begin 
at 7:00 p.m. in PH 100.
)
A Campus-to-Career Case History
/ sounded good to me
55
Charles Poole, B.S. in Business Ad
ministration, Boston University, 52, is 
working for New Jersey Bell Telephone 
Company as a Traffic Superintendent. 
For a young man he has a lot of respon
sibility. And responsibility is what he 
likes. He has three New Jersey ex
changes under his supervisionDover, 
Madison and Washingtonwhich total 
nearly 16,000 customers, and he man
ages a force of some 160 operators, in
cluding nine chief operators and fifteen 
service assistants.
Its the type of job, says Charlie, 
happily, 66where you can never say 
youre caught up. Theres always some
thing to do. Each day brings Charlie 
new problems, new experiences. And 
with every passing day his grasp of the 
telephone business is getting stronger, 
his value to* the company is growing.
That spells the kind of future that 
Charlie wants: the opportunity to take 
an ever-increasing part in an ever-ex
panding business.
66It sounded good to me, Charlie says, 
remembering what he thought when the 
telephone interviewer had finished tell
ing him about the company and its fu
ture. And, as you might expect, it still 
sounds good to him.
Charlie Poole is typical of the many young men 
who are building careers in telephone work. Sim
ilar opportunities exist today with other telephone 
companies, and also with Bell Telephone Labora
tories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. 
Your placement officer has the details.
u
BELL
TELEPHONE
SYSTEM
.A
HH

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December IS, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
Starting Salaries Up 
For Tech Engineers
%r The national economy grows more thirsty for college graduates 
each year, according to statistics released by Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
At least 90 per cent of last Junes graduates were placed at 
the time of their commencement and their salaries averaged $385 
per month which is $15 above the#--------------------------------------------------------
averages of 1954
Graduates from the College of 
Engineering and Science, the Dit 
vision of Humanistic and Social 
Studies, the School of Printing 
Management and Industrial Ad
ministration numbered 418. Of 
these, 263 or 63 per cent were 
employed by industry, an increase 
of 2 per cent over last year. 
Another 105, or 25 per cent, pur
sued academic careers, either in 
government study, teaching or re
search, and 33, or 8 per .cent, en
tered government services either 
in a civilian or military capacity. 
The remaining 4 per cent included 
^reign students who returned to 
their native countries and those 
who failed to answer employment 
questionnaires (1 per cent.)
Starting salaries for holders of 
bachelor degrees ranged from 
$350 to $475 per month, and the 
median $385 is $15 above the 1954 
median, $25 above that of 1953. 
The range for Master of Science 
men was $375 to $550 with a 
median of $450. Doctor of Philo
sophy graduates received be
tween $570 and $750 with a 
median .of $625 per month, an in
crease of $65 in the monthly pay 
envelope over last years rates.
According to the Bureau of 
Placements all signs indicate an
other increase in median starting 
salaries for the June, 1956, grad
uates.
Tight Competition
Companies are putting in their 
bids for interviewing the gradOn Camposwith
Maxtalman
(Author of Barefoot Boy With Cheek," etc.)
ADVENTURES IN SOCIAL SCIENCE: NO. 2
Doff your caps and bells; there will be no fun and games this 
day. Today, with earnestness and sobriety, we make the second 
of our forays into social science. Today we take up the most 
basic of all the social sciencessociology itself
Sociology teaches us that man is a social animal. It is not his 
instincts or his heredity that determine his conduct; it is his 
environment. This fact is vividly borne out when one considers 
any of the several cases of children who were raised by wild ani^mals. Take, for example, the dossier on Julio Sigafoos.
Julio, abandoned as an infant in a dark wood near Cleveland, 
was adopted by a pack of wild dogs and reared as one of their 
own. When Julio was found by a hunter at the age of twelve, the 
poor child was more canine than human. He ran on all fours, 
barked and growled, ate raw meat, lapped water with his tongue, 
and could neither speak nor understand one single word. In 
short, he v> ife a complete product of his environment.
(Julio, incidentally, was more fortunate than most wild chil
dren. They never become truly humanized, but Julio was excep
tional. Bit by bit, he began to talk and walk and eat a*d drink 
as people do. His long dormant mental processes, when awakened 
at last, turned out to be remarkably acute. In fact, he was so 
bright that he learned to read and write in a month, got through 
grammar school in five years and high school in two. And last 
June, as thousands of spectators, knowing Julia's tragic back
ground, stood and cheered, he was graduated valedictorian from 
Cal Tech with a degree in astrophysics!
(Who can say to what towering heights this incredible boy 
would have risen had he not been killed the day after commence
ment while chasing a car?)
But I digress. To return to sociology, people tend to gather in 
groups a tendency that began, as we all know, with the intro
duction of Philip Morris Cigarettes. What an aid to sociability 
they are! How benignly one looks upon his fellows after a puff 
of Philip Morriss gentle, pleasant, flavorful tobacco! How eager 
it makes one to share, to communicate, to extend the hard of 
friendship! How grateful we all are to Philip Morris for mak
ing possible this togetherness! How good not to live in the bleak 
pre-Philip Morris world, with every man a stranger!
The groups that people live in today (thanks to Philip Morris) 
vary widely in their customs. What is perfectly acceptable in 
one society may be outlandish in another. Take, for instance, the 
case of Ug Poopoomoogoo.
*Ug, a Polynesian lad, grew up in an idyllic South Sea isle 
where the leading social event of the year was the feast of Max, 
the sun god. A quaint all-day ceremony was held, with tribal 
dancing, war chants, fat lady races, pie eating contests, and, 
for the grand finale, the sacrifice of two dozen maidens.
According to Ugs folkways, sacrificing maidens was quite 
acceptable, but when in his eighteenth year he was sent as an 
exchange student to the University of Wisconsin, he soon learned 
that Americans take a dim view of this practicein Wisconsin, 
at any rate. The first twelve or thirteen maidens Ug sacrificed, 
he was let off with a warning. When, however, he persisted, dras
tic measures were takenhe was de-pledged by his fraternity.
0A broken man, Ug quit school and moved to Milwaukee where 
today he earns a meagre living as a stein. * shuinun. 1955
This column is brought to you by the maker of Philip Morris 
Cigarette, who are otherwise rational men. Ask for new Philip 
Morri in the smart new red, white and gold package.
uates earlier than ever and some 
300 business enterprises have al
ready arranged to have their re
presentatives on the Carnegie 
campus to speak with over 400 
seniors who are expected to graduat this spring.
During the last academic year 
a p p r oximately 650 companies 
contacted the Carnegie Bureau of 
Placements, and 316 sent repre
sentatives to the campus. Sched
uled visits of 60 companies had 
to be cancelled for lack of avail
able students.
Due to the greater opportunities 
presented last Junes graduates, 
more of them chose to work in 
the state than in previous years. 
Approximately 40 per cent ac
cepted jobs in Pennsylvania and 
of that number 34 per cent were 
distributed among 22 firms lo
cated in the Pittsburgh Metro
politan area. This is a 9 per cent 
increase over the number of 1954 
graduates who accepted employ
ment in Pittsburgh.
Prof. Boettcher 
With Symphony
The Pittsburgh Symphony So
ciety and Duquesne University 
have joined forces to present a 
special pre-Christmas attraction 
this Friday night and Sunday 
afternoon, December 16 and 18 at 
Syria Mosque.
William Steinberg will conduct 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra, the Duquesne University 
Chorus and outstanding soloists 
in the first Pittsburgh perform
ance of the Claudel-Honegger 
modern classic, Jeanne DArc au 
Bucher (Joan of Arc at the 
Stake). This work has been de
scribed as the most decisive 
music drama of our time and 
combines in music and spoken 
serve a most beautiful telling of 
the unforgettable story of a 
simple French girl who led the 
armies of France to victory over 
the English 5ft0 years ago, only 
to be later burned at the-stake as 
a witch.
Starring in the title role will be 
the great dramatic actress, Vera 
Borina. The other principal 
speaking part will be taken by 
Henry Boettcher, head of Car
negie Techs drama department.
SAE Guest Speaker
Captain George E. T. Eyston, world famous automobile record 
holder, is pictured with the MG experimental prototype EX-179 at 
Bonneville, Utah, where he set 35 new records with the car.
World Famed Auto Speedster 
To Speak Here Tomorrow Night
n Wednesday, December 14, at 8 p.m., in Porter Hall 100, 
the Society of Automotive Engineers, in conjunction with the Steel 
City Region, Sports Car Club of America, will present Captain 
George E. T. Eyston, of London, England, who will give an illus^crated talk on Motorcar RacingDr. John Marcus 
To Give Far East 
Course In Spring
Dr. John Marcus, a new mem , ber of the history department, will ;tlmes holder of the absolute land
and Record Breaking.
Capt. Eyston has the distinction 
of holding more world and inter
national land speed records with 
different types of cars than any
one else in the world. He is three
teach the junior and senior elec
tive Far East course this spring. 
Dr. Marcus has just returned from 
Paris, where in 1949 he was a Fulbright scholar, doing his MA thesis
speed record, and since the death 
of John Cobb, (the present holder) 
he holds the distinction of travel
ing the fastest measured mile, both 
ways, in a self propelled land veon French Colonial Ideas. Since ^le. ^aPt- Eyston held the abthen he has been employed in I fol"te record wlth hls ThunderParis by the U.S. Government. ; bolt a ca* Ppwerri with two suPrevious to the Fu'bright he was ! Perrtiarged Rolls-Royce V-12 airinterested in Chinese history and craft engines, putting out an estiThe YWCA is open .to all wo
men students at Carnegie Tech. 
It offers an opportunity for stu
dents to search for answers to 
the basic questions of life, 
through worship, study, and dis
cussion.
took a number of graduate courses 
at Cornell.
These two fields of study partic
ularly equip Dr. Marcus to teach 
the Far East course, as the empha
sis in this course is on Imperial
ism, one of the causes of twentieth 
century tension. The course is of
mated five thousand horsepower. 
With this car, in 1939 at Bonne
ville, Utah, he drove to a record 
of 357.5 mph.
Since that time, Capt. Eyston 
has driven a lot of the smaller 
stuff, but with equally impressive 
results. This last year, again at
particular interest in these days of I Bonneville, he drove the experiFar East-American tension. The j mental prototype MG to 35 new 
course attempts a survey of po- ! records, including a worlds reclitical and economic relations of ord for its class of ten miles at 
the Western World with the Far 153.69 mph. At the same time, he 
East regions from 1800 to the pres- drove two experimental prototype 
ent, with particular emphasis on Austin Healeys to dozens of new 
contemporary problems. i [Continued on page 6]
New...
a comfortable collar 
you cannot outgrow
The new Arrow Lido shirt has no 
top button at the collar; your 
necktie alone closes the collar neatly. 
And even if your neck size grows, 
the expandable collar stays 
comfortable. Get yours todaywear 
it with a tie tonightopen at the 
neck tomorrow. Priced from $5.00.
>ARROW-first in fashion
SHIRTS  TIES  HANDKERCHIEFS  gNDERWEAR
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
BELTPHONS YETNS SMLP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. - Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 13, 1955
Editorial
Confusion
Among Publications
Members of the staffs of Tech publica
tions met last Saturday in the first inter
publications conference of the year to dis
cuss common problems and attempt to solve 
them. The meeting was sponsored by Pi 
Delta Epsilon, national journalistic honorary 
fraternity. This is the first time any such 
conference has been tried at Tech, and the 
results so far seem .to indicate that a general 
publications meeting might well be repeated 
often during the school year.
Each publication presented its aims, or
ganizational policies, and particular prob
lems. A general discussion followed during 
which suggestions were given as to how 
these problems might be solved.
It would seem that the main difficulty 
is in coordinating the different members of 
a publication into a unified whole. For ex
ample, there are about 60 people working 
for the Tartan, most of whom have no idea 
of who the others are or what they do.
This problem appears to be common to all 
publications on this campus. Several sug
gestions were offered for remedying the situation, including 
staff meetings, personal contact between editor and those 
working under him, and all-publications social affairs.
The results of the conference showed that publications 
difficulties can be summed up as follows-. Better organiza
tions, both within the publications and between them, is 
necessary if they are to achieve good journalistic quality 
and reader interest. This can be accomplished by more effi
cient planning within the organization and a revival of in
terest on the part of both students and members.
Getting a paper or magazine together is a hard job 
requiring the effort and enthusiasm of interested people. 
The job could be made ten times easier if more people would 
stop to think about the importance of a college publication, 
and help to make it a unified, vital accomplishment.
M.J.K.
BEE L TPH ONS YBHS M ^ CPPP, BUO SBCN PL B DILLSTSNO feather.
A Step Toivards 
The Neiv Union
Although we had no indication of the tuition increase 
at this time last week, it was a fortunate coincidence that 
our editorial proved to be very timely. The reasons for the 
increase are explained elsewhere, and they seern entirely 
sound. Certainly we can not expect to continue to run on 
such an unstable basis as we do now. Since the sum pro
vided by tuition funds and income from the endowment has 
been insufficient to meet costs, the obvious thing to do is to 
increase tuition, because there seems to be no immediate 
danger of getting any great donations to build up the en
dowment fund.
An implication derived from this increase follows from 
our supposition last week that the trustees were devising 
some means of getting funds for physical expansion. Evi
dently they reasoned that a tuition increase would help to
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
MUseum 1-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9846, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech- oology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-In-Chief ...............................................................................................................Robert Russell
BiiiseM Manager ..................................... ........................................... ....................Vic Shiry
News Editor ............................................................................................ ..........................Marjo King
Sports Editor.................... .......... .................  ............................................Tom Wright
Copy Editor ............................. ................... ................................................................. Richard Fox
Featares Editor...................................'...................................................................Stephanie Mackay
Assistant Business ManagerMarty Ostroff. Advertising ManagerBob Sorkin. 
Circulation ManagerHarley Bernbach.
ReportersEvelyn Alessio. Anne Mehler. Pat Michell, Arthur Marino, Kay 
Melenyzer, Lois Griffin, Sally Day, Barbara Hoenstine, Janet Buvinger, Ann Forest 
Joan Coprich, Jo Todes, En Harriet Chang, Bob Smith, Bud Palmer, George Bangs, 
Anna Hatsfeid. Lynn Porter Carman, Betsy Kuhn, Marlene Daehnert, Susie Stryker, 
A! Federowicz. Gene Anderson. Bob Jack, Joe Batson. Features StaffJoe Szewc, 
Luis DeLa Macorra, Ron MacFarlane. Sports StaffJames Lacey, Dick Swaney, 
Gerald Pittler. Bob Hoppe. PhotographersJohn Russell, Phil Rathke, Stan ZaNvadowicz. Art StaffRon Fritts, Mike Barkman, Dave Stea. Copy StaffEd Rogers,
Bill Mowry. Wade Biggs, Ed Holsten. OlHre StaffCarol Millsom, Anne Barnes,
Mary Langdon, Ruth Knott. Copy RunnersJim Kelly, Vic Oburg. Circulation 
StaffIra Levine. Jerry Kreuzer, Robert Peters Advertising StaffHerbert 
Kreindler. Alan Hodel. M>ron Wagmeister, A1 Goldstein.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3. 1879. Accepted for mailing at special
rat** of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Pres*. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, In. College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave, New York City. Subscriptions $1.10
remove the worry about meeting running 
expenses, and donations from industry, 
alumni, etc., which were formerly used to 
fill the gap can now be used for the expan
sion program.
This increase, which hits us all pretty 
hard, is probably the means by which we 
will be able to finance a new union sooner 
than before. Maybe the union should be 
dedicated to the students gf Carnegie Tech, 
because, by this* roundabout reasoning, we 
are making a sacrifice, which although in
voluntary, will serve to hasten the construc
tion of the new union.
R.H.R.
WRCT Schedule
Tuesday
5:00 p.m.Sign On, Best on Wax
6:00 p.m.Symphony at Six 
7:00 p.m.News 
7:15 p.m.Join the Navy 7:30 p.m.Masterworks from 
France8:00 p.m.Album of Favorites 
9:00 p.m.Music of the Masters
11:00 p.m.News, Night Train 
Wednesday 
5 00 p.m.Sign On, Best on 
Wax6:00 p.m.Symphony at Six 
7:00 p.m.News 7:15 p.m.Serenade in Blue 7:30 p.m.211 Club 
8:00 p.m.Album of Favorites 
9:00 p.m.Music Of the Masters
11:00 p.m.News. Night Train 
Thursday 
5:00 p.m.Sign On, Best on Wax6:00 p.m.Symphony at Six 
7:00 p.m.News 7:15 p.m.Stand By for Music 
7:30 p.m.The Mel Hayden 
Ensemble 8:00 p.m.Album of Favorites 
9:00 p.m.Music of the Masters
11:00 p.m.News, Night Train 
Friday 
5:00 p.m.Sign On, Best on Wax
6:00 p.m.Symphony at Six 
7:00 p.m.News
7:15 p.m 7:30 p.m 8:00 p.m 
9:00 p.m
11:00 p.m
6:00 p.m. 6:15 p.m. 9:00 p.m. 
11:00 p.m.
1:15 p.m, 2 00 pm.
3:00 p.m. 
4.00 p.m.
5:30 p.m 
6:00 p.m 6:15 p.m
7:00 p.m 
7:30 p.m 8:00 p.m 
9:00 p.m
11:00 p.m
5:00 p.m
6:00 p.m 
7.00 p.m 
7:15 p.m 7:00 p.m
8:00 p.m 
9:00 p.m
11:00 p.m
.Guest Star .Jam Session 
.Album of Favorites 
.Music of the Masters 
,News, Night Train 
Saturday i'i)
News,Kaaio Merrimac ,Spinner Sanctum 
.News, Night Train 
Sunday
.Sign On, News 
.Showcase..of Show Tunes .Sunday Chapel Sunday Pops 
Concert .Proudly We Hail 
.News.Music from the Record Room 
.Casual.Casualty /.Album of Fayormfjf 
.Music of the Masters .News, Night Train
Monday
.Sign On, Best on 
Wax.Symphony at Six 
.News.Serenade in Blue .Masterworks from 
France .Album of Favorites .Music of the Masters 
.-News, Night Traill
o
Letters
Cameron Or Carnegie?
Editor The Tartan,
Another note on the tartan of Carnegie Tech:,
When my daughter was a freshman there some 
years ago a note in the Tartan about Andrew Car
negie being of the common people and so with
out a tartan aroused my interest for my greatgreat-grandfather (one of them, that is) who came 
over about two hundred years ago was a Fraser 
and I knew that most of the clansmen who ,wore 
the tartans were lowly enough, whether they were 
named Fraser or Bruce or Graham or any other.
So I began looking up the tartan I might call 
mine if I wished, for the Frasers are and were 
authentic highlanders and in the thick of most of 
the clan wais and other activities. Later my daughrter did a paper on the Tartan of Carnegie Tech and 
in preparing it we checked a number of books in 
the Carnegie Library and one I have myself. My 
book is by Bain and, about the Frasers at least. He 
and Sir Thomas Innes of Learney, Lord Lyon King 
of Arms, do not agree, though I imagine the dis
agreement could be ironed out.
Particularly do the color cuts of tartans in the 
Innes book and that of Bain disagree and I first in
quired of the Adamson Scots House which supplies 
pipes and other equipment for the pipe bands 
around and was told that the cut in the Bain book 
was more nearly accuate for the Frasers than that 
in the Innes work. Later I ordered a scarf in the 
Fraser tartan from Scotland and found it to agree 
with Bain rather than Innes. Still later I met a 
young man from Scotland by the name of Fraser 
who said my colors were correct. All this merely 
casts some doubt on Sir Innes, whose job these days 
is purely formal.
The upshot of my daughters investigations and 
mine led to the conclusion that the tartan of Car
negie Tech is, indeed, that of Cameron of Erracht 
although, of course we did not go beyond the data 
available in the Carnegie Library and color prints 
are often tricky.
Incidentally the Duke of Montrose doubts the 
authenticity of many of the clan tartans of today. 
He is himself a Graham whose clan was quite ac
tive and he is of the opinion that, as of 1745 when 
the clan system was abandoned, there would be 
about forty clans, presumably in the highlands. 
In 1825 a rough census of highland clans was taken 
and only some 29 were found although this census
Viewing 
The Administration
By Peter Urbach and John Saxe
This is the first of a series of articles to appear 
periodically inthe TARTAN. The purpose of this 
series is to clarify the administrations point cf 
view on important school problems. In todays 
column we have chosen two timely topics. In 
succeeding columns we will discuss similar ques
tions submitted by students to the authors.
Acquiring: the Freshman Class 
One of the main factors in maintaining Techs 
present high standards, is the quality of the stu
dent body. We asked the administration how it se
cures the quality student. Ten per cent of our 
present freshmen were first in their high school 
class. However, obtaining a good selection of freshmen is no easy task. This problem is being handled 
by a section of our administration known as the 
Undergraduate Admissions Office, Mr. J. M. Dan-, 
iels, Head. This office is responsible both for see
ing that a large quantity of superior high school 
seniors apply to Carnegie Tech, and for weeding 
from this group the freshmen class that is to be ac
cepted.
Contact high school seniors is, at present, a 
function of two groups, the alumni and the admin
istration. The alumnis services include attending 
College Night conferences, interviewing applicants 
for admission, and recruiting outstanding sehiors in 
their neighborhood. The administration periodcally 
sends its members on tours of high and prep schools 
in various sections of the country. This is done so 
as to obtain a large geographical distribution of 
students differing in social and academic back
grounds, not to mention the fact that it affords a 
chance for picking top flight high school seniors.
The main motive professed by the admissions 
office of accepting a high school senior is, Will he 
graduate, and will he be successful in our pro
gram? Some statistics on our present freshman 
class are:
48 per cent are not from the Pittsburgh area, 
91% per cent are from the upper two-fifths of 
their high school class.
75 per cent are from the upper one-fifth, and 
6 per cent are from the upper one-tenth,
65 per cent are expected to graduate from Tech. 
To have a reasonable chance for acceptance (in<Li
to E&S), high school seniors should: consistently be.
in the upper half of their class in all courses and 
be above average in CEEB examination in Eng
lish mathematics and science. A good indication of 
how well a high school senior will do in E&S 
is the score he obtains on the CEEB mathematics 
test. Other courses (e.g. drama music etc.) demand 
special talent and can only be tested on an individ
ual basis.
It is the opinion of the writers that a great as
sistance could be rendered the Adminissions office 
by the undergraduate student body. Students could,^ 
during their Christmas and mid-semester vacations, 
go back to their high schools and offer to talk to 
students interested in the courses offered at Car
negie Tech. This would be a service to Tech as well 
as to the local community. Further information may 
be obtained by contacting the writers of this col
umn or the Admissions Office in AH,
was probably not complete. There were, of course, 
lowland clans but one is inclined to doubt that of 
the 120 or more listed by Innes actually werefj 
authentic clans in 1745.
So maybe the tartan is still Cameron of Er
racht, after all.
Very truly yours,
Whitney Joy

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 13, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPagre 5
Tech Drops Thriller
The Carnegie Tech Tartans played their only afternoon basket
ball game of the seaSon against Slippery Rock Teachers and the 
game went by the' boards as one of the most thrilling. Slippery 
Rock Teachers clicked for the winning points with less than a 
minute to go and the Tartans* 
ended up on the short end of the
Dave Harrington is seen winning the 200 yard individual med
ley. The Tartans, aided by Shuck, Inc., had an easy win over 
Slippery Rock.
* * * * * * 
Tartan Tankmen Slip Past 
^Slippery Rock In Opening Meet
The Carnegie Tech swimming^- 
team started their season off last 
Saturday by defeating Slippery 
Rock in the Tech pool by a score 
of 57-27r~
Particularly oftt standing or 
prospective looking swimmers 
this season are some of the fol
lowing: freshman Bob Shuck in 
the long distance 440 yd. free 
style; sophomore Tony Chamay, 
whose endurance in the 220 yd. 
free style showed even more im
provement as he missed first place 
last Saturday by inches; sopho
more Mike Litch, who was last 
years best point-getter is still top
being a future point-getter in the 
short distance free style events. 
The two Shuck brothers turned in 
good performances Saturday with 
Franks back stroking looking 
good in( the 200 yard backstroke 
event and Daves long-distance 
free style work looking good as 
always. Dave Harrington in the 
individual medley and Bob Sciulli 
in the breaststroke event are two 
more men helping to round out 
Techs well-balanced team this 
year.
The next meet will be away 
with West Virginia on January 
. | 7, 1956 and the next home meetman in the 50 and 100 yard dashes , s wjth Westminister on January 
and faithful anchor man in the ! 14
400 yard relay. j 300-Yard Medley RelayWon by Tecv
^ Freshman Jim. Goldman is a (Long Derringer, ^ shuck). Time
Tiewcomer who shows promise of ] 220-Yard Free StyleWon by McCorkle
score which was 75-73.
It was Bill Beatty, Slippery 
Rocks center, who chalked up the 
most important points of the 
game. His last three points were 
made at the free throw line. One 
of his charity throws tied up the 
1 game 73-73 and the other two 
came with 40 seconds to gg in the 
game.
This game was the tenth in a 
series between the two schools 
and the Tartans still remain on 
the short end of the record hav
ing won only three of the ten 
games. The triumph gives the 
Rockets a season record thus far 
of two wins against one loss, 
while the Tartans have a not too 
impressive one win against three 
losses.
Joe Duffy of Duquesne led the 
Slippery Rock quintet with a 
total of 23 points, 14 of which 
came in the second half.
Frank was high for the Skibos 
with .19 points while Dick Fieler 
was second with 17. Alan fouled
(S); 2, Chamay (T); 3, D. Shuck (2). 
Time2:34.7.
50-Yard Free StyleWon by Litch (T); 
2, Peters (S); 3, Goldman (T)^ Time 
1:25.3.
200-Yard Individual MedleyWon by
Harrington (T); 2, Shipley, (T); 3, Swan
son (S). Time2:40.
Fancy DivingWon by Dean (Si; 2. 
SoSeld (S); 3, Goughnour (T).
100-Yard Free StyleWon by Litch 
(T); 2, McCorkle (S); 3, Peters (S>.
Time:57.5.200-Yard Back StrokeWon by F. 
Shuck (T); 2, Hilles (T); 3, Bolt (S). 
Time2:34.9.
200-Yard BreaststrokeWon by Shipley 
(2); 2, Swanson (S); 3, Volz (S).' Time> ;57 9
140-Yard Free StyleWon by B. Suhck T): 2, D. Shuck (T); 3, Clay MS).
Time5:50.9.
400-Yard RelayWon by Tech (Gold
man, Harrington, Chamay, Litch). Time 3:55.1.
out of the game with two minutes 
to go, and Ralph Mocker was 
benched for the same reason with 
nine minutes left in the final 
period.
Carnegie led at one time in the 
first half by seven points and 
Slippery Rock was in the lead 
once after the intermission by 
six. But most of the time there 
was only a point or two separat
ing the two teams. The red hot 
game was tied seven times and 
the lead changed hands 17 dif
ferent times. The Tartans had a
47-41 halftime lead, but Slippery 
Rock rallied quickly to get back 
in the running.
Westminster Tomorrow
The Scots wil meet Westminster 
College at Skibo Gym on Wed
nesday, December 14. The Titans 
have not lost a game in this cur
rent campaign. Bethany College 
went down before them, 79-57, 
and they whipped Slippery Rock 
97-67.
The Tartans, who in pre-season 
predictions were ranked quite 
high in the district, have now 
dropped a game each to West 
Virginia and Duquesne. They 
must win their next four games 
(Slippery Rock, Westminster, 
Quantico Marines, and Geneva) if 
they wish to again attain their 
reputation as being the best little 
team in the district.
Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Co.. Pittsburgh 10. Pa.
Immediate confirmation of airline reservations to New 
YorkDecember 21returning January 3now 
available for the CHRISTMAS holiday. 
Round Trip $35.20 (including tax)
FORBES TRHVEL SERVICE
5880 Forbes St., Pittsburgh 17 Pa. (Squirrel Hill) JA 1-7300 
No Service Charge Free Ticket Delivery
IRVING SNELL SAYS: PROTECT YOUR AMERICAN HERITAGE!
Elect... H ARLEY A. BERNBACH
U. M. O. C. - HE IS!
When youve 
And you 
Have fun the
earned a "holiday
take off to play...
best way have a CAMEL!
It's a psychological fact: 
Pleasure helps your disposition.
If you're a smoker, remember 
 more people get more 
pure pleasure from Camels 
than from any other cigarette!
No other cigarette is so 
rich-tasting, yet so mild!

---------------------------------------------------

Fase (CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December IS, 1955
See Your Chevrolet Dealer
ATO Wins Volleyball Title.
By Bernie Seigel ?
The little boys on the corner 
picked up their third consecutive 
all school volleyball championship 
Friday night by beating the Grad. 
Mesons, a strong unit of graduate 
students. Earlier, the ATOs had 
beaten Phi Kappa and Kappa Sig
ma to earn the right to meet the 
Grads. Led by Chester Achilles and 
Dick Major, the Taus played their 
best ball of the season. Big guns 
for the Grads were Norm and Jack 
Rugheimer, possibly the finest onetvvo combination in the school this 
year.
Going into the finals, the ATOs 
were undefeated, having won 14 
in as many starts. They took the 
first one to make it 15 straight but 
the Grads proved too much in the 
second game and ended the streak. 
But the rubber game found the 
Taus equal to the task and they 
took the match to gain the title.
Credit must be given to the fine 
officiating performance turned in 
by Chuck PT&es. Charlie had a big 
hand in officiating throughout the 
playoffs and did a fine job.
This year volleyball found sev
eral fine teams and competition 
was close. A real surprise team was 
Wilmerding A.C. which beat a 
strong SAE and extended the Grad 
Mesons in the semis. Phi Kap pro
vided big competition for ATO in 
the semis and gave the Taus their 
only real test up to that time.
The Grad Mesons will have the 
same squad next year while the
Kappa Sig Loses 
To Duquesne's 
Football Squad
Campus Volleyball Champs
Front row (I-r): Marion Ritchie, Toby Fields, Legs Roy, 
Symor Hoffman. Back row (1-r): Jimmy Achilles, Boom-Boom 
Recker, Smiling R. Major, Titus C. Swaney.
ATOs lose Big Jack Recker, boom
ing portsiding spiker and Jerry 
Roy, setter par excellance. Also go
ing is Dick Major, co-captain of 
this year winning crew, and a big 
point getter for two seasons.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE. PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
IM Roundup
Bridge *
With the playoffs due next week 
only one league race has been set
tled. In the Tartan league the 
PKA A team has taken top hon
ors in easy victories over their op
ponents. Although the other 
leagues are still undecided, the 
favored teams are TDP and Citcom. Standings:
Tartan League
PiKA A..................................... 3-0
SAE ................................................ 2-1
DTD..................................................1-2
TX ....................................................0-3
Kiltie League
BTP.............................................. IT-1
Citcom......................................... IT-1
ATO............................................... 1-1
BSR ............................................... 1-1
Skibo League
TDP ............................................... 2-0
Obelisk ......................................... 1-0
DU .................................................. 0-1
PiKA B ..................................... 0-2
Water Polo 
Although the water polo season 
has just started, it looks like ATO 
is going to be fighting ATO for the 
championship. No, this isn't a mis
print. The only undefeated teams 
are ATO A and ATO B. 
Table Tenn's 
With the table tennis season 
slightly past the halfway mark, 
the top teams are beginning to 
show their form. At this point 
there are still two undefeated 
teams in both the Skibo and Tar
tan leagues and three undefeated 
teams in the Plaid league. Stand
ings: .
Tartan League
TX ............................................. 4.0
BSR ................................................ 2-0
TDP ................................................ 1-1
ATO A....................................... 1-1
PiKA .............................................. 1-2
BSR (pledge).............................. 0-1
Citcom............................................ 0-4
Skibo League
Obelisk ......................................... 2-0
TDP (pledge) ............................... 2-0
SAE ........................:..................... 3-1
BSR (C) ...............................,____ 1-2
KS A ......................................... 1-2
DTD B............................'......... 0-4
Plaid League
DTD ................................................ 3-0
BSR A....................................... 2-0
DU .................................................. 1-0
KS B ......................................... 0-1
SN A................................'.......... 0-1
BSR D ....................................0-2
ATO O ..................................... 0-3
Basketball
Intramural basketball entries ase 
due December 16; play begins Jan
uary 9. The practice schedule is 
posted on the intramural board.
Call Pool
Call pool entries are due De 
cember 16; play begins January 4.
Wrestling
There is still room for a few 
more intramural wrestlers. Anyone 
who is interested see Mr. Arm
strong in Thistle Hall at 4:30 p.m. 
any Monday, Wednesday, or Fri
day.
IM Board
The intramural board is consid
ering adding fencing and chess t^ 
the.IM schedule this year if they 
find enough interested students.
There will be a Scot-Thistle 
party at 8:00 p.m. on Thurs
day, Dec. 15 at the DU house. 
Beer and skittles will be serv
ed to all those whove worked 
on the Scot, or who intend to -m* 
do so. The above qualifications 
also apply to Thistle people.
Capt. Eyston
[Continued from Page 3] 
records, including a two way aver
age over the flying mile at 192.62 
mph.
A practicing engineer, he is C 
graduate of Cambridge University, 
director of two English firms: C. C. 
Wakefield & Co. Ltd., and John I. 
Thornycroft & Co. Ltd., and a 
member of the Society of Auto
motive Engineers and the Insti
tute of Mechanical Engineers.
SCHOOL OF 
RETAILING
UNIVERSITY OF 
PITTSBURGH
Duquesnes football champs 
scored twice in the first quarter 
and held Kappa Sigma scoreless 
during the last three quarters, 
thus earning the right to play the 
Pitt winners for the city title. The 
Clyde Street boys were under a 
great handicap due to the loss of 
their quarterback Pascarella due 
to a sprained neck and a shoulder 
injury of Pasierb, but scored first. 
They tallied on a long side pass 
from Lou Montini to Dan Saxton.
Following this the Dukes then 
struck twice through the air for 
two touchdowns w'ithin a space 
of five minutes. Though both 
teams threatened in the last three 
quarters, time ran out with the 
score still standing Duquesne 12, 
Kappa Sigma 6.
The game was played under 
rules similar to those used here, 
with two exceptions. The 80-yard 
field consisted of four zones of 20 
yards each, with the offensive 
team earning a first down by a 
penetration of a zone in four plays. 
The point awarded for a first 
down was eliminated, and touch
downs were valued at six points 
apiece with no point after touch
down attempt allowed.
While the Kappa Sigs played 
well without Pascarella, it was ap
parent that his absence was the 
deciding factor in the game.
( \
Earn Your Master's Degree
Plan N ow for an | 
Executive Career
in Retailing
A one-year executive development 
program open to all A.B. and 
B.S. degree graduates with goo 
undergraduate records. Curricu
lum include* executive direction 
in outstanding department stores 
in aix major East and Midwest 
cities (with pay, minimum $450). 
You earn your Master's Degree 
at the same time. Co-ed. Schol
arship. G.I. approved. Gradu
ates are selectively 
placed before grad
uation. Next class 
begins Sept. ?. 1958. 
Apply now. Write 
for BULLETIN C."
Chevrolet's 
taught dynamite 
good manners !
With its frisky Turbo-Fire V8, 
this Chevrolet is pure dynamite. 
But its beautifully mannered, 
tooquiet, instantly obedient to 
your slightest signal!
Nudge the accelerator and youre 
aware of the split-second chain re
action of your toe to the TurboFire! Theres your dynamitewith 
horsepower ranging up to a high of 
205. The car is built for its power, 
toowith a low, low center of 
gravity, well distributed weight and 
wide-apart rear springs. Theres 
your stability, and safer handling! 
All doors have safety latchesand 
instrument panel padding and seat 
belts are available at extra cost. 
Directional signals are standard. 
Come in and try a new Chevrolet!
THE HOT ONES EVEN HOTTER

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December IS, 1355CARNEGIE TARTANFace 1
Drug Research 
For Asthma Cure 
Carried On Here
cham (alternating), Jack Shaheen 
and others. Lafcadio will be play
ed by William Ball who will be 
remembered for his exciting per
formance last year in the title role 
of Uncle Vanya and for his Dog
berry in Much Ado About 
Nothing.
Tickets for Lafcadio may be 
obtained in Room 100, Fine Arts 
Building.
Technical
[Continued from page Ij 
of the ten finalists will receive 
recognition keys at the presenta
tion.
 The papers submitted should 
deal with any aspect of problems 
in industry today. This might in
clude production, marketing, pro
graming, and research difficulties, 
as well as technical problems. The 
writer should be cognizant of the 
fact that the paper will be read by 
, a wide variety of engineers and 
also members of the English facul
ty who are not necessarily tech
nically trained. The papers should 
be between J 500 and 4,000 words 
in length and should be submitted 
to the Carnegie Technica through 
intro-school mail before February
6, 1956.
ri ir// / >/itymix
New medicines to relieve pain 
and treat asthma and hay fever 
are being sought in chemical re
search at Carnegie Tech,
Dr. Philip Southwick, professor 
of chemistry has been investigat
ing synthesis of pyrrolidine deriva
tives from which a number of new 
substances are being prepared. The 
substances will be tested for pos
sible medicinal use in treating 
asthma, hay fever and alleviating 
pain.
The research is being conducted 
under a three-year grant from the 
National Institutes of Health, a 
part of the Public Health Service. 
An appropriation of $8,884 has 
been made for the firjt year.
Dr. Southwick has been working 
with pyrrolidine compounds for a 
number of years and has recently 
developed methods of synthesis 
for basic compounds that can be 
modified to produce suostances re
sembling the chemical structure of 
known drugs now used for asthma 
and hay fever patients. The work 
of the Carnegie scientist is based 
upon the hope that the new pyr
rolidine derivatives may prove 
more effective than existing medi
cines in treating these ilis.
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ................................................................................ ............. Dolores Neff
Reporters .................................................. John Van Holt, Jr., Emily MuhicTuition
[Continued from page 1] 
to charge tuition equal to or high
er than our new rate. In fact, at 
colleges and universities such as 
M. I. T., R. P. I., Case, Cornell, 
Lafayette, and others, tuition 
ranges from $900 to $1100. Just 
this fall, Case raised their 
charges from $775 to $950.
The last tuition increase here 
at Carnegie was in the spring of 
1952, when it was raised from 
$600 to $680 per year. The last 
increase prior to that was in 
1948.
Beginning in t*ie fall of 1956, 
the scholarship budget and the 
funds available for student loans 
will be substantially increased. 
We shall do our best, said 
Dr. Warner, to see that financial 
aid for students is kept at an 
adequate level.
Xmas Assembly
for Night School 
[onday At Eight
As in years past, Evening Stu
dent Council will again sponsor a 
Christmas assembly for students. 
This year, the assembly is to be 
held in Room 100 PH at 8:00 p.m. 
on Monday, December 19.
To make attendance possible for 
all students on campus that eve
ning, schedule periods have been 
modified as follows:
Regular Sched- Time of Dismiss - 
uled Periods ing or
Reconvening
6:30-8:30
7:00-8:30 Dismiss at 8:00
7:30-8:30
6:30-10:30
7:00-10:30 Dismiss at 8:00
7:30-10:00 Reconvene at 8:50
7:30-0:30 
8:30-9:30
^0-10:00 Convene at 8T50
8:30-10:30
Student Council extends a spe
cial invitation to all the instruc
tors to attend this assembly.
Please come and enjoy the pro
gramlets fill room 100 PH to 
SROStanding Room Only  and 
then some.
Super Snooper
Your Super Snooper has de
cided to start her Christmas 
vacation a little early this 
year, but she wants to wish 
you all a Merry Christmas 
and a Happy New Year.Lafcadio
Congratulations
Congratulations are in order for 
Professor Robert Schwartz and 
Mrs. Schwartz on the arrival of 
their new baby daughter, Claire. 
Mrs. Schwartz was an instructor in 
the English department here at 
Tech and also is the sponsor of 
Phi Gamma Pi sorority. Professor 
Schwartz is an instructor in the 
history department. The big event 
was announced to the history 
classes by a bright red tie worn 
by the proud father.
tContinued from page 2]
Lafcadio opens December 16 
and plays through December 20. 
It then closes for the Christmas 
vacation, reopens January 6 and 
plays until January 11. The cast 
includes Rosalyn Newport and 
Janice Meshkoff (alternating), 
Michael Ebert, T. Brook Howard, 
and Charles Walsh (alternating), 
Irene Baird and Rose Marie 
Schneider (alternating), Nancy 
Cole and Susan Becker (alternat
ing), Lane Merrill, Joe Sommer, 
Franziska Jungk, and Susan KetThe Carnegie Tech Student 
Chapter of the American Chemi
cal Society provides intellectual 
and social activity in the field of 
chemistry.
MY GAME ! LUCKY DROODLES!
WHATS
THIS?
For solution, see 
paragraph at right.
ttention Seniors
THERES NO GETTING AROUND ITLuckies taste 
better. And theres no getting around that thing in 
the Droodle at left, eitherthe Droodles titled: 
Lucky smoker with bum seat at football game. Poor 
guy is really up against it. But hes got a swell point 
of view on smokinghe smokes Luckies for better 
taste. Luckies taste better because theyre made 
of fine tobacco thats TOASTED to taste better. 
Chances are our friend in Section 28 is thinking, 
This is the best-tasting cigarette I ever smoked!*
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
Any night-school students 
who plan to receive their de
gree in June and who would 
like to have their pictures in 
the yearbook, please make ar
rangements to have your pic
tures taken at Gimbels PhotoReflex Studio between De
cember 26 and February 4. 
Students from the immediate 
Pittsburgh area are urged to 
go to Gimbels the week after 
C hristmas for the best .service.
Birthday Corner
ftUCKT
STRIKfi
^Happy Birthday to; 
Anthony Mazuk 
Bill Farrer 
Richard Long 
Marolyn Lewis 
Frank Pehr 
Yvonne Kiefer 
Frances Seljak 
Frank Butscher 
Frad Panian 
Cnarles Tharp 
Michael Abaray 
George Urbany 
Jack Bell 
Frank Buck 
David Carrera 
Irene Seitz 
Richard Masters 
Angela Pollis 
Harold Kozminski 
lidry Krohe 
Joan Mcllwain 
Wm. Carrell 
Donald Wade 
James Shaw 
Robert Conelly 
Ralph Caretti 
Owen Katz 
Russell Connelley 
Robert Loughry 
Ronald Riley 
Joseph Traycheff 
Mifcn Cains 
Wayne Henninger 
Dan Bailey 
Olga Kalodziej 
Joseph Hirko 
John Drobne
Students! EARN *25??!
Cut yourself in on the Lucky 
Droodle gold mine. We pay $25 
for all we useand for a whole 
raft we dont use! Send your 
Droodles with descriptive titles. 
Include your name, address, col
lege and class and the name and 
address of the dealer in your col
lege town from whom you buy 
cigarettes most often. Address: 
Lucky Droodle, Box 67A, 
Mount Vernon, N.Y.
HI-FI
Clarence Jones Univ. of Florida
ONI BELOW ZERO
Bentie Sorrels Texas Tech
UNION CARD FOR 
JACK-OF-ALL-TRADES
Leonard Feigenbaum C.C.N.Y.

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December IS, 1955
Union
[Continued from page 2] 
a book store, a post office, a 
chapel, and three guest rooms.
Poor Skibo
A food service department has 
also been alloted space in the 
proposed plans. There will be a 
faculty dining room with a capa
city of 50, a cafeteria with a ca
pacity of 500, a coffee shop, and 
a snack bar. Kitchens, serving 
rooms, and storage rooms have 
been planned, and tentatively a 
room for ice cream manufactur
ing has been included.
On December 19 and 20 these 
plans will be further discussed in 
a meeting of all organiations in 
Room 100 PH at 4:30. At that 
time Mr. Porter Butts, director of 
the Wisconsin Union and planner 
of 44 college unions, will be on 
campus and will be at the meet
ing to discuss the proposed Car
negie Union with the administra
tion and the students.
Quality Of Work 
By CIT Architects 
Merits Awartls
Outstanding designs for a 
modern studio building devoted 
to the manufacture of church 
windows won George W. Sotter 
Memorial Awards for three un
suspecting architectural students 
at Carnegie Tech.
The designs were the result of 
a unique classroom assignment 
to 5 architectural juniors who had 
no inkling their work would be 
judged for awards. Nor did their 
teachers who gave the assign
ment, Associate Professor Robert 
Schmertz and Instructor Martin 
Chetlin.
Given specifications, the stu
dents were assigned the problem 
of designing an efficient and 
functional stained glass manu
facturing studio. To solve the 
problem, the students had to 
study the complicated process of 
making stained glass church win
dows. On repeated visits to the 
George Hunt Studio and the 
Pittsburgh Stained Glass Com
pany, they learned that each win
dow translates religious story or 
thought pictorially and this in
volves problems in historical re
search, as well as an assembly 
line of highly-trained artists: de
signer, cartooner, cutter and 
selector of glass, and painter and 
kiln expert.
Great Work Necessary
After 16 weeks of study and 
designing, the class came up with 
35 individual designs which so 
impressed the executive commit
tee of the American Stained Glass 
Association that they decided to 
set up avards for the three best. 
Appropriately, they named the 
new awards in memory of George 
W. Sotter, a former professor of 
painting and design at Tech and 
a former member of their as-* 
sociation, who designed many 
stained glass windows for 
churches throughout the country.
Judging the 35 completed de
signs together with Professor 
Schmertz and Instructor Chetlin, 
the executive board of the Ameri
can Stained Glass Association 
awarded cash prizes to Earl Onque of St. Paul, Minnesota, Ro
bert Swedroe of the Bronx, New 
York, and George H. Allan of 
Pittsburgh.
[Continued from page 2] 
latent interest that doesnt have 
an opportunity to awaken due to 
lack of stimulus. And some who 
seek may be frustrated in their 
attempts both by their fellow stu
dents and by disinterested in
structors and professors.
Incentive Needed 
Thus the problem lies in giving
Readings Planned 
By Mary Morris
The theatre in our country, 
having lost its'home in the sense 
that we do not have theatre as an 
integral and necessary part of our 
community life in America today, 
is in an increasing number of 
cases turning back to the church, 
to the place of worship from 
whence it sprung.
With the cooperation of the 
Pastor of the First Unitarian 
Church, Irving Murray, Miss 
Mary Morris, a drama professor 
at Tech, will present An Evening 
of Poetry and Drama on Tuesday 
and Wednesday, January 3 and 4. 
Miss Morris and the English actor-director Peter Bucknell
will give readings from dramatic 
literature and poetry, including 
scenes from well known plays.
Student tickets, at $ .90, are 
available by calling the church 
office at MAyflower 1-8008.
the incoming student the incen
tive to inquire and impetus for 
this intellectual curiosity. If he 
does have the interest, it should 
be stimulated by professors who 
have an interest themselves 'in 
the course.
Apparently there is one depart
ment on campus that feels it has 
the desired curiosity. In the Fine 
Arts department the students are 
pursuing that which they are 
most interested in, and they are 
more interested in learning than 
in getting grades. They have the 
opportunities to go beyond theii 
restricted course, however, and 
are able to comprehend the other 
phases of life when required to 
do so. The other courses should 
receive the same degree of inter
est, but lest the students become 
too narrow in their field, they 
should be encouraged to carry 
this intellectual curiosity outside 
the classroom.
The solution to the problem 
cannot be clearly defined. It must 
come from the students them
selves, recognizing that knowl
edge is more important than 
grades, and that it is important 
to have broad interests which 
lead them outside of their im
mediate fields. And it must come 
from the professors realizing that 
students are discouraged easily by 
their (the professors) attitudes 
and methods of teaching. The 
problem deserves a lot of thought.
Council Elections 
In Skibo Tuesday
Student Council election will be 
held Tuesday, December 20, at 
Skibo from 9:00 a.m.-1:30 p.m. An 
additional election booth will be 
set up in AH at lunchtime from 
11:30-1:30 for those students who 
do not patronize Skibo. A Phi O is 
in charge of the election.
Appropriations to various needy 
organizations on campus were con
sidered by Student Council at the 
December 7 meeting. The Kiltie 
Band, now running on a deficit, 
will have to buy all new uniforms 
and equipment in five years, and 
it is h oped that the required 
amount of money can be gradual
ly accumulated between now and 
then. The 57 Thistle v/ill also re
ceive money to help finance their 
special anniversary edition of the 
annual.
President of the newly organiz
ed Radio Club, William Bertovich, 
presented the clubs budget, to 
Student Council and gave a short 
report on the organization. Con
sisting of 20 active members with 
50 or 60 hams on campus still 
to be contacted, the clubs purpose 
is to gain general radio experience 
and code practice.
Ed Feigenbaum reported on the 
Student Council constitution which 
is in the process of being revised 
and reorganized. Final drafts wilj. 
be given to a coordinating com-))/ 
mittee the first week in February 
who will draw up the new con
stitution. The February Leader
ship Conference, to be planned by 
Phi Tau Gamma and Delta Skull, 
will analyze it and then submit it 
to the student body for approval.
Special To Tech I 
Students By PRR
20% off on round trip to New 
York. Regularly $28.88, Special 
at $22.79. Save $6.09. Contact 
our campus agent: Ken Draper, 
205 McGill Hall, MU. 2-9430.
Been Thinking of Buying A Car?
Before you buy any car of any make, NEW or USED, see: 
WALLY DONOGHUE, 101 WELCH HALL 
^ HE WILL GET THE CAP YOU WANT
AT THE PRICE YOU WANT!
Mli 3-0242 or AL 1-S2UO
MAKE 
IT ABIG RED LETTER DAY.
ENGINEERING THEATER
Every Tuesday at 12:30 
E. H. 1112 
All Students and Faculty 
Welcome
SPONSORED BV 
American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers and Society of Auto
motive Engineers in Conjunc
tion with AIEE & AICHE
"UTILCASE"
The smart, modern, utility case, 
for business, professional and 
personal use.
FOLDER ON REQUEST
M. R. LEVY
310 Melwood Ave.
