New Men *s Dorms Ready For 1954
Inn To Come Down; 
Bu ilding Starts In A ug.
New, Ultramodern Dorm To Replace
Barracks; Will House 200 Students
To Replace Carnegie Inn
VOL. 46No. 22 CARNEGIE INSTITUE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., APRIL 21, 1953
Carnival Committee Announces 
Circus Theme For Weekend
Float Parade And Midway Feature Weekend;
Cricket Match And Tug-O-War To Be Held
Dick Franklin, general chairman of this years spring Carnival, 
has announced that plans are well underway for the carnival week 
activities. The committee chairmen for the preparations are as fol
lows: budget, Bill Stewart; coronation, Bob Byrne; dance, Guy Wilson; 
decorations, Irv Shector; enter-4
tainment, Martin Snyderman; float 
parade, Carroll Gantz; invitations, 
Leonard Hvizdos; midway, Char
les Dickinson; sweepstakes, Alfred 
DeVido; technical and coordina
tion, Dick Woods; trophies. Robert 
Carman; tickets, Frd Sonnenberg; publicity, Bill Smith; girls 
competition, Bob Byrne; and sec
retary, Nancy Sklar.
Events
This year the Spring Carnival 
committee is arranging a pro
gram which will give every stu
dent a chance to participate in the 
activities. The first scheduled 
event of the week will be the Car
nival Queen election on Friday, 
May 1. Scotch n Soda, the musical 
variety show, will be held on the 
evenings of Tuesday, Wednesday, 
and Thursday, May 5, 6, and 7. On 
Friday morning, May 8, the pre
liminaries of the buggy sweep
stakes will be run; the same after
noon at 1:00 a cricket match will 
be played by members of the 
drama department, and the float 
parade will be held at 3:00. On 
Friday night a dance will be held 
in the gym. Saturday morning will 
see the finals of the buggy sweep
stakes, and a girls tug-of-war 
tournament will be held that af
ternoon. The planned events of 
the flreek end will come to an end 
with another dance at the gym 
Saturday night.
Each event has been planned 
by the committee in charge. Skits 
for the Carnival Queen campaigns 
will be presented in Skibo on 
April 29 and 30 from 11:30 a.m. 
to 1:30 p.m. The over-all theme 
for the activities this year is to be 
Circus. The dance decorations 
will carry out this idea and prom
ise to be better than in previous 
years. This theme will also be 
carried out in the float parade, for
which the individual themes have 
already been chosen by the par
ticipants.
Two different bands will play 
for the dances on Friday and Sat
urday. The sweepstakes rules 
have undergone some minor 
changes this year at the sugges
tion of the fraternities.
Blood Drive Set 
For April 23; 160 
Donors Needed
On Thursday, April 23, Tech 
will be the scene of a campus 
blood drive. This drive is -sponsor
ed by the Newman Club and Stu
dent Council with A1 Blank and 
Mary Jane Opris as chairmen.
A goal of 160 pints of blood has 
been set for this visit of the bloodmobile. The chairmen, however, 
have expressed the desire that at 
least 185 donors be signed up be
fore the visit Thursday. This will 
insure the fulfillment of the quota.
Prospective donors may sign up 
for appointments to give a pint of 
[Continued on page 3]
Allen A. Gilmore, who has resign
ed.
Dr. Paul Ward Appointed 
Neiv History Department Head
Dr. Paul Langdon Ward, former professor of history at Colby 
college, Maine, has been appointed professor and head of the depart
ment of history at Tech, President J. C. Warner announced last Sat
urday. The appointment is effective September 1, 1953.
A graduate of Amherst college* 
in 1933 with highest honors in his
tory, Dr. Ward received both his 
masters degree and Ph.D. from 
Harvard university.
Awarded Grant 
Before joining Carnegie, he was 
instructor of history at Harvard 
university, secretary of publication 
of the medieval academy of Amer
ica, and assistant professor of his
tory at Russell Sage college, Troy,
N. Y. He served with the office of 
strategic services as research tech
nician from 1942 to 1945 and con
tinued in the Department of State 
from 1945 to 1946. On appointment 
by the Protestant Episcopal church, 
he became professor of western 
history in residence at Huachung 
university, Wuchang, China from 
1947 to 1949. In 1950, he was 
awarded a grant for study by the 
Society of Fellows, Harvard uni
versity. From 1951 to the present 
time he has been assistant professor of history at Colby college. Dr. Paul L. Ward
Dr. Ward succeeds Professor New History Head
By Bill Minkler
The unsightly, rat infested FPHA is at last going to be 
torn down. Tech officials announced today that plans for 
a brand new mens dorrr ' ^ complete, and that the barracks 
will be razed in the suim^r of 1954.
The new dorm, which is sched-e------------------------------------------------------------------
uled for occupancy in September 
1954, will provide facilities for 
200 undergraduate men in 6 single 
and 82 double rooms. The present 
undergraduate dormitories can 
house 422 men. With the comple
tion of the new building and the 
razing of FPHA, the campus will 
be able to accommodate 524, which 
represents an increase of 102 over 
the current capacity.
Inn Torn Down 
The site chosen is across Mar
garet Morrison street from Scobell hall, between MMCC and 
Carnegie Inn. The entire Inn will 
be torn down before construction 
begins in August of this year. The 
Inn has been of minimum use to 
the college in recent years, and no 
other suitable site for the dormi
tory could be found after a care
ful study of possible locations.
The plot selected will require lit
tle excavation and fill, and there
fore will effect economies not 
possible at other places on the 
campus.
The college attempted to secure 
a site adjacent to the present 
mens dorms on the south side of 
Margaret Morrison street, but 
plans for it did not materialize.
The estimated cost of the project, 
including furnishings, is $700,000.
Rental rates for the new dormi
tory have not yet been determin
ed, but all dormitory rates will 
probably have to be increased 
substantially, since the income 
from them at present does not 
carry the cost of dorm operation.
Very Modern 
The structure is to be contem
porary in design, and more mod
ern in appearance than any pres
ent Tech buildingeven the SIA.
From the street side it will show 
three floors, and from the Tech 
Bowl ride it will show four floors; 
three and one-half of these will 
Ije for rooms, and the remainder of 
the space will be divided for 
trunk storage and basement. Ad
ditional provisions will be made 
for visiting mens and womens 
rest rooms, cloak roms, and a rec
reation area.
The large main lounges, one 
[Continued on page 3]
Top Scientists Discuss Dielectric Amplifiers Here
The future of one of the world's 
newest scientific discoveries was 
studied here on April 17 and 18.
In a conference, the first of its 
kind ever to take place on this 
subject in the United States, ap
proximately 100 electronics experts 
from universities, industries, and 
government agencies literally dis
sected the tiny wTafers known 
technically as dielectric amplifiers.
Like Paper 
The amplifiers are terrifically 
powerful, yet amazingly simple, 
minute sheets approximately Vsinch square and 7/1000 of an inch 
thick. When used in simple cir
cuits, roughly similar to those used 
with electronic tubes, they amplify 
weak electrical currents to produce 
more powerful currents. Made of 
ferro-electric materials coated on 
each side with silver, they can best 
be described as resembling ordi
nary little pieces of paper.
As far as present research can 
determine, these rugged little par
ticles will last indefinitely and ap
pear to have great promise for re
placement of fragile vacuum tubes 
in military equipment. They may 
also find their way into industry 
where automatic control equip
ment, such as photo-electric count* 
ing and high speed servo-mechan
isms, are used. As far as home 
equipment is concerned, radios and 
TV sets, the amplifiers will not be 
of practical use because of the 
elaborate auxiliary equipment that 
goes along with them.
Participants 
Research on the dielectric am
plifiers has been under way for 
the last three years with such par
ticipating units as General Elec
tric, Bell Telephone, Glenco com
pany, Radiation Incorporated, 
Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology Carnegie Tech.
Directing the work on the am
plifiers at Carnegie are Professors 
[Continued on page 2\
Elections To Be Held
Student Council and class officer elections will be held to
morrow', April 22. The candidates for Student Council are as 
follows:
Engineering and Science: (3 to be elected) George Bangs. 
Richard Christensen, Robert Bischak,. James Shriver, Joseph 
Bercsi.
Humanistic and Social Studies: (1 to be elected) Albert Blank. 
Ove Andersen.
Fine Arts: (2 to be elected) John Schonder, Carolyn Hoerger, 
Joseph Ceo, Allan Anderson.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College: (1 to be elected) Mary 
Jane Opris.
The following are candidates for class officers: Class of 1954: 
President, Joseph Bercsi and Donald Adams; secretary, Clark 
Garrechtj treasurer, Albert Blank; vice-president of FA, Sorlee 
Gefsky; vice-president of H&SS, Harry Anderson and Richard 
Cloughley; vice-president of MMCC, no candidate; vice-president 
of E&S, Paul Smith.
Class of 1955: president, Norbert Ackerman; secretary, Frank 
Marchlenski; treasurer, Lowell Steinbrenner; vice-president of 
Fine Arts, no candidate; vice-president of H&SS, Thomas DeSena; vice-president of MMCC, Sheila Sullivan; vice-president 
of E&S, Simon Kellman and Joseph Szewc.
Class of 1956: president, George Bangs; secretary, Mary Rudy; 
treasurer, Allan Anderson; vice-president of FA, Francis Wick
ham; vice-president of H&SS, no candidate; vice-president of 
MMCC, no candidate; vice-president of E&S, Earle Bisbey.
For all offices for which there is only one candidate running, 
there is no contest and these candidates are declared elected. 
The Council members elected will take office at the next to last 
Council meeting of this semester.
Voting for the above will be by preferential ballot.

---------------------------------------------------

Face 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 21, 1953
Oil Problem Reflects Ikes 
Stand On States Rights
By Professor Robert Schwarz ?
In the last presidential campaign the issue of tidelands oil ranked 
among the most serious domestic problems. It will be remembered 
that Mr. Truman, in one of his last presidential actions, turned over 
this off-shore treasure to the Navy. The proponents of the argument 
that the oil question belongs to the states concernedCalifornia, 
Texas, and Louisianahave tried to build a case on the proposition 
that the federal government should not become too powerful and 
that ownership by the national government would lead to further 
encroachment upon the rights of the individual states. Their oppon
ents hold that the oil belongs to all 48 states and that the Supreme 
Court has decided in their favor; that national parks and forests oper
ate under the same principle of common ownership among all the 
states; and that the latter would turn over this national wealth to 
the private oil companies. The Hill amendment has as its objective 
the use of the enormous value of off-shore oil for the improvements 
of schools in all the 48 states.
Soon after the advent of the present regime this matter was 
taken up by Congress and is at the moment under intense discussion 
on Capitol Hill. It appears to be a one-sided battle because, while 
things look better for the federalists than they did ih February 
and March, the outcome is in all probability going to be a victory 
for the states concerned.
Behind this struggle for oil looms the larger fight for a prin
ciple. It is really a contest between the Republican decentralization 
policy and the Fair Deal welfare state philosophy, with conservative 
Democrats (not only from the three states involved) siding with the 
Republican Congressional leadership. In the forefront of the federal
ists stand Senators Douglas of Illinois, Humphrey of Minnesota, 
Lehman of New York, Morse of Oregon, and of course Hill and 
Sparkman of Alabama. Many liberal Republicans back the majority, 
but reluctantly. They seem to feel that although the conservative Re
publicans in Congress are in agreement with the President in the 
campaign, Mr. Eisenhower on the whole favors surrendering the 
oil to the states. Opposition would only bring on further tension be
tween the two branches, a tension which has already been revealed 
on other occasions. Besides, the Republican attitude toward the 
newly-won friends in the South must be one of gladly-given reward 
for their support. For these reasons Republicans who are otherwise 
moderately liberal (liberal in the 20th century sense of the word) 
will undoubtedly vote against the Hill amendment with mixed feel
ings.
An interesting sidelight is the dispute over historic boundaries 
of states, especially Texas which claims a boundary wider than the 
traditional three-mile limit within the Gulf of Mexico. It is not 
beyond possibility that one day the Supreme Court may be asked 
to arbitrate in this matter.
Around 
The Town
Dr. Stanley B. Morgenlander, 
psychiatrist at Juvenile court and 
distinguished exponent of psychi
atric thinking, opens an important 
series of lectures on the Prob
lems of Adjustment in Everyday 
Life, this Tuesday evening, April 
21, at 8:15 p.m., at the Oakland 
YM&WHA.* * *
Thursday evening, April 23, at 
8:15 p.m., the puBlic is invited to 
enjoy an evening with Bob 
Schmertz, Americas top composer 
of folksy, singable melodies. Pro
fessor Robert Watson Schmertz, of 
Carnegies department of archi
tecture, is the composer of Noah, 
Monongahela Sal, Spring on 
the Campus and many other 
songs.
* * *
Bishop Austin Pardue will talk 
on his recent adventure in Korea 
to the Canterbury clubs of Carne
gie Tech, University of Pittsburgh, 
and Pennsylvania College for 
Women on Sunday, May 3, at the 
Stephen Foster memorial. The 
time is 5 to 7 p.m. with refresh
ments served at 5 p.m. Tech 
Canterbury club cordially invites 
all students and faculty members 
interested.* * *
With the mystery-thriller Pay
ment Deferred now running at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse for the 
adult theater-goers and with The 
Land of the Dragon set to continue 
for the junior playgoers, the Pitts
burgh Playhouse offers a fine 
month of playgoing for people of
pulling an apparatus of bouncing 
animals or if you have to climb 
over the fellows rolling marble 
games on the floor. It is just that 
the P&Ds are fascinated by their 
newest problemdesigning toys.
Veterans
Requisitions for books, sup
plies and equipment for the 
Spring semester, 1953, can not 
be honored by the Bookstore 
after May 9, 1953.
By The Drain-O's
LIFES DARKEST MOMENT.
Our deepest condolences go to the 
sweater girl (?) who descended 
from the X-ray mobile, noticed the 
sign reading No safety pins or 
buttons are to be worn, and faint
ed. We hope that the X-ray tech
nicians will realize that the pins 
are exterior items and not lodged 
permanently in the respiratory j 
system.
DIG THAT CRAZY VIRUS!
If your skin has upheavels!
Daddy-oh, you got the- measles! j 
This epidemic sure aint lazy;
Its spreading round Tech like , 
crazy!
THE GOOD OLD COLLEGE
GAME. As rumor would disclose, 1 
beating on tables and gesturing at 
one another has incurred the dis
approval of the hierarchy. How 
are the fraternity men to improve 
their reflexes and the professional I 
societies to transact business if this 
diversion is terminated?
LIFE GETS TEDIOUS NT j 
IT? Freshman trying to rnahc ; 
versation on a blind date: I know | a man who swallows swords.
Bored co-ed: Thats nothing. 1 
inhale Camels.
TEMPERANCE COMMITTEE 
It seems that the Womens Dorm ! 
Council chapter of the WCTU and ' 
the Junior Alcoholics Anonymous j 
(otherwise known as CFP) are ob- j 
jecting to the alcoholic inhibihement of the women of Morewood. j 
All staggering girlies in the-future 
will be entitled to social prohibi
tion.
DEFINITION OF THE IN
VERTED MINE SHAFT? A uni
versity is a school which has room 
for 2,000 in class rooms and 50,000 
in the football stadium.
GOO GOO. Dont get shocked if 
you see some person running up 
and down the halls of Fine Arts
EHGINEERING
GRADUATES
CON V AIR
ruuni g,A. 
RTEurRi R, nuSuE,D 
R,L,..,OYi TV.N.TBR
CONVAIR'S expanding interests in the fields of con
ventional, unconventional, and nuclear-powered air
craft offer exceptional opportunities for Engineering 
Graduates.
A. R. TEASDALE
of CONVAIR, Fori Worth Division, 
Will Be On Your Campus
RfGIF/Ht\ T(IUe yo\ ldso
For Interview Information, Contact Your 
STUDENT PLACEMENT OFFICER
all ages.
* * *
The Pittsburgh council on Intercultural education has joined 
the Nathan Katz memorial fund 
to bring Miss Alice Keliher, author 
and prominent educator from New 
York university, to its April meet
ing. Therefore, they are opening 
the dinner meeting to be held on 
Thursdy, April 30 at 6:15 in the 
Carnegie Institute cafeteria, Oak
land, to people whom they feel are 
interested in education and its in
ter cultural aspects. Anyone wish
ing to attend should call Mrs. Auel 
at CO 1-6010, Extension 297, by 
April 24 to make a dinner reserva
tion. Guests are welcome.
*  *
The Borscht Capades of 53 . . . 
Farfel Follies will play the Syria 
Mosque on May 6 and 7. Performanfces both evenings will begin at 
8:30 pjn. Heading the AmericanYiddish cast is storyteller Myron 
Cohen, Capitol record stars Mickey 
Katz, and Michel Rosenberg.
Tickets are now being sold at 
the R. E. Baltz agency in Volkweins, 632 Liberty avenue, and at 
Hornes and Gimbels. Prices in
cluding all tax range from $1.95 
to $4.55.
* * *
Two of the greatest names in 
the annals of Jazz, Benny Good
man and Louis Armstrong, will 
appear at Syria Mosque on Friday 
evening, May 1 for two complete 
shows. The first show will begin 
at 8:30 and the second at 11:30. 
The King of Swing has re-as
sembled his band to include such 
men as Gene Krupa, Teddy Wil
son, and Ziggy Elman.
Tickets are now being sold at 
Volkweins, Hornes and Gimbels. 
Prices for both concerts are $1.95, 
$2.60, $3.25, and $3.90 including 
tax.
Varied Program To Be Presented By Kiltie Band
The Kiltie band directed by Rob
ert B. Cantrick, will trade tunics 
for tuxedos when the Kiltie sym
phonic band presents its annual 
spring concert, Friday evening, 
April 24, at 8:15 p.m., Carnegie 
music hall.
The concert will open with the 
traditional Procession of the Pi
per, in colorful Scottish regalia.
Audiences will hear for the first 
time Arnold Schoenbergs Theme 
and Variation. Also included in 
the program will be Bachs Toccats and Fugue in D Minor, and 
Les Preludes by Liszt. On the 
lighter side will be Debussys hu
morous suite, The Childrens Cor
ner, and melodies irom Porgy 
and Bess by Gershwin.
Tickets (75 cents for adults and 
50 cents for students) can be pur
chased at Carnegie music hall the 
night of the concert.
Amplifier[Continued from page 1]
Gaylord W. Penney and Leo M. 
Finzi, of the electrical engineering 
department.
The purpose of the conference, 
sponsored jointly by Carnegie and 
the Office of Naval Research, is to 
discuss material requirements and 
unsolved problems concerning di
electric amplifiers and to explore 
new developments.
# Dr. R. L. Bright, assistant pro
fessor of electrical engineering, M 
coordinator of the conferences.
Arrow Gordon Dover Seen As 
Campus Favorite For 53
Button-Down Oxford Classic 
Overwhelming Favorite 
Of College Crowd
All signs point to a big year on campus for Arrow Gvrdon 
Doverthe neat, button-down Oxford so many young 
men prefer. Available at all Arrow dealers.
s
ARB OIV SHIRTS
bbbbb iaV.Ri c RVui c Arnu.OuT. c aTrnCu.NaVuBi c iD,.Ri iaV.Ri W
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings 
Eu,rT.nYi LurYi ia,D
Corner Forhes and Atwood St. Oakland
ROY VERNER BEESE
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, INC.
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April il, 1953CARNEGIE TARTAN Pace S
runiBOUND TO W* ^WIND L)P HOW CAN 
=7 IN THE ]"THEy TELL
1 OLYMPICS! J 50 SOON? SfrL. GIRAFFES /
Sim HAVE S
V O L.46
t/\ \\ ( LESS,T'OO, <
j \ \ \\ \ BUT THEY
Y\ \\ ( Paul jump.1 ,
WITH LESS 
THAT LONG, 
HE OU6HTA BE ABLE < 
TO STEP 2? 
OVER THE j 
BAR..* X
Only time will tellaEouta frock and field candidate ! And only time will tell r abouta cigarette ! lake yourtime... '
time will tell...
THAT GUy^A ^ CINCH 
TO CLEAR 
7 FEET/mCAMlS-ft30 da/sn Sr momsandFtAVOR
Rau.u LAiR -u T .uTi,r Oag
Camel is Americas most popular 
cigarette-leading all other brands 
by billions! Camels have the two 
things smokers want mostrich, full 
flavor and cool, cool mildness ... 
pack after pack! Try Camels for 30 
days and see how mild, how flavorful, 
how thoroughly enjoyable they are 
as your steady smoke!
Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winfton-8alam. N. 0.More People Smoke CAM ELS -than any other cigarette
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
ET MORRISON STREET
Dormitory Location 
To be Ready /or 54 Frosh
200 Man Dorm Going Up; 
Construction Starts In August
[Continued from page 1]
40 x 50 and the other 40 x 28, 
will be located on the ground 
floor; the top two floors will each 
contain a 28 x 28 lounge also. 
Since the building is to be con
structed at a bend in the street-, it 
will have two wings with a cen
ter tower. The four lounges will 
be located here.
Tech has announced that it will 
build at once a full-scale mock-up 
double room in Carnegie Inn so 
that students can look it over and 
make suggestions -on arrangement 
of furniture and equipment. The 
furniture, as well as the building 
itself, will be of contemporary 
design, and part of it is to be 
built-in.
Novel methods are to be em
ployed in the construction of the 
dorm. The contractor may be able 
to utilize the revolutionary liftslab 
method thus eliminating expen
sive and time consuming work. 
The construction itself will be of 
concrete slabs with generous use 
of steel and glass. The dorm will 
be heated from Techs own cen
tral heating plant, which now
supplies warmth to all campus 
buildings except Morewood Gar
dens.
Fill Tech Bowl
After the barracks are torn 
down, the land where they are lo
cated will be used as a playing ; 
field. The operations departments 
long range plan for this area is to ! 
dig out the hill now occupied by 
Whitfield Hall and use the earth 
thus obtained to fill in the Tech 
Bowl. Ultimately the Bowl will be 
rotated 90 degrees, and a large, 
level playing field will stretch 
from MMCC east to Forbes street.
Last semester the Tartan pub- j 
lished a series of editorials and ar- i 
tides in an attempt to force the 
administration to do something 
about the FPHA. Tech officials in
sist, however, that pressure from 
campus publications had no effect 
upon their decision to raze the 
FPHA and build a new dorm. 
Plans to do thig^have been on the 
drawing boards for a long time.
The move represents an effort 
to relieve congestion in present 
dormitories and to provide quarcampus from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at 
the new Industrial Administration 
building. All blood given during 
this visit will go to the Defense 
Department for use by the armed 
forces.
At the first visit of the bloodmobile two years ago our quota 
was met when 150 donors gave 
their blood. Since that time, how
ever, the trend has been down
ward with only 70 and 60 donors
ters for some of the 200 students 
who are now living in rooming 
houses off campus.
The new dorm has been design
ed by Mitchell and Ritchey, a 
Pittsburgh architect firm. Both Mr. 
Mitchell and Mr. Ritchey received 
their bachelor of architecture de
grees from Techs College of Fine 
Arts in 1932, and both men have 
won international recognition for 
their work.
LETS GO TO
ISALYS
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes
*Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes St., Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
Blood Drive[Continued from page I]
their blood any day between_ll:30
and 1:30 in Skibo.
The bloodmobile will be on
showing up for the last two 
drives. It is hoped that this trend 
will be reversed during this visit 
and that the quota will again be
filled.
g,A.RTES
Sets the Pace in Golf
Theres a Spalding golf ball 
for every game and pocketbook. See your golf profes
sional or dealer.
RESISTS SCUFFING, BRUISING, STAINS,
Sp^LDING does it again! Adds 
a spectacular new permanent 
whiteness to the games great
est golf balls.
New Lifetime White, exclusive 
with Spalding, is the brightest, 
whitest white ... the toughest,
highest gloss white of any ball 
you ever played.
Proven by "torture tests,** 
Spalding LIFETIME WHITE re
sists scuffing, bruises, stains ... 
wont yellow or chip ... keeps 
its sparkling sheen for life.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 21, 1953
EditorialW
Council Again
It is unfortunate that within only a week 
of taking office the new command of this 
paper is so destitute of ideas that an old 
whipping boy must be dusted off and used.
But it is true, and Student Council is once 
again the subject of a Tartan editorial.
We hope, however, that we will be able 
to present a few relatively new ideas on the 
subject, which has been kicked around this 
campus since the beginning of time.
No-one, whether pro-Council or anti, is 
likely to argue that the bdy is too effective.
Most in fact, and unfortunately particularly 
those who otherwise have a broad view of 
campus affairs, treat our student government 
with a measure of scorn. Council, it seems, 
has never amounted to much, and these peo
ple do not expect it to do so in the near
future. So it is dismissed as merely one more
group that exists but does not much of any
thing else.
From this point begins a downward 
spiral. Starting with scorn for Council, many 
persons who might otherwise participate in 
its activities do not. The group deteriorates 
more. From this deterioration comes more 
criticism, and further lowering of its quality 
and. reputation.
It is a good thing for the organization that ambitious presi
dents occasionally come along and try to breathe a little fire
into its weary bones.
This action arrests the downward trend for the time being, 
but no amount of preaching and complaining is froing to do much 
lasting good until a little more all school interest is evidenced. 
And this is not likely to happen until Council improves materi
ally, which leaves us with a seemingly endless circle.
So it is going to take a minor miracle to bring about a 
change of affairs. Either by shear accident must an effective 
slate of members be elected (which is highly unlikely), or 
else some great issue must come up for Council to tackle 
successfully and put itself back in the public favor.
But neither of these things seem likely to happen to
morrow, so the status quo is bound to continue, with Stu
dent Council ranging from being mildly useful to downright 
worthless. In any case the group is not likely to prove 
much of a help or hindrance to either students or Adminis
tration.
We do not propose to criticize present Council members for 
this situation. A few are in fact doing their best; and the rest 
fill chairs along with the crowd. Even the second group is not 
too much to blame. Council sluggishness is traditional, and not 
likely to change even if the chair fillers reform.
For even with all members chafing at the bit for some
thing to do, there is still the question of what can be done. 
Councils powers are vague, its resources are limited, and 
other influences are so firmly entrenched in power that any 
new authority for Council is not likely to be forthcoming.
Tne situation looks hopeless unless some great issue ap
pears to bring truly effective members back into the ranks; 
and until some clarification and expansion of powers comes 
about to give the organization the potentialities that it de
serves as the elected representatives of the student body.
O^ol-E
Student Council at Work
'Pardon me, Sir; I ask a boon
LettersW
Need Change
Editor, the Tartan:
Well, the IA School has done it again! This 
seems like an appropriate time and place to com
ment on the recent talks by Dr. Farber, successor 
to Dr. Feigl in the annual series of philosophical 
lectures started last year at Tech.
To begin with, and to anticipate accusations of 
intolerance, I enjoyed Dr. Farbers visit very much, 
and am certainly in favor of the Administrations 
laudable attempt to provoke a little more philo
sophical inquiry in the more or less lethargic intel
lectual atmosphere often surrounding the scienti
fic world. It does see mto be accomplishing this 
purpose.
However, the presentation of these purely natur
alistic pragmatic philosophers and their sad at
tempts to develop value judgements, especially, is, 
in our opinion, wearing out its welcome. Not a few 
people in the audience are a little tired of their 
lauding of the scientific method, and of their talk 
about the good of society while they evade the 
moot quesiton of its why and wherefore. The trou
ble is not in their assumption of individual happi
ness as the only logical standard of value but in 
their arbitrary choice of a frame of reference in 
which to evaluate it.
Perhaps Carnegie Tech is not interested in the 
why as well as the how, but why shouldnt we be? 
Furthermore, after two years of hearing ridicule of 
metaphysical philosophy it would be nice to see 
the shoe on the other foot for a change. To do 
any less would be nice to see the shoe on the other 
fot for a change. To do any less would be to in
vite suspicioon that the sponsors feel the audience 
is incapable of judging for themselves the relative 
merit of each side of the issue. In this event their 
own educational philosophy has already made the 
decision for us. '
Sincerely,
Robert J. Lechner.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. TELEPHONE: , 
SChenley 1-4557; after hours SChenley 1-9846; for advertising and subscriptions 
HAzel 1-5360. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and ex- ] 
amination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 
13, Pa.
Editor-in-chief ........................................................................................................ Dick Durstine
Business Manager ........................................................................................................ Jerry Seiner
Managing Editor ....................................................... Wilson Sick
News Editor ............................................................................ ........................................ Jo Forsythe
Sports Editor ........... ................................ ........................... .................................. Frank Fegley
Personnel Manager .............................................................................................. Paul Carmichael
Featme 
Shiry. 
Gross 
Reporte 
toff. Pa 
men \ 
Jim G 
Wolfe. 
Typist 
Make-1 
Ron
5 EditorLin Smith. Copy Editor*A1 Susia. Advertising ManagerVic 
Assistant Business ManagerStan Rosenberg. Circulation Manager^Den
Photography Editor Barbara T;ia. Assistant Sports EditorTed Reuther.
>an Cummerton, Jane Sunder, Marilyn Seiner, Bill Minkler, June Sochat Maue, Mollie Rudy, Sally Clark, George Barnes, Bob Livingston, Car- j 
llella. Sports ReportersEdward Feigenbaum. Jack Alexander, Dick Eppler, 
re. Art StaffCarolyn Copp. PhotographersDon Hand, Myron Lewis, Dick 
Features Staff Andy Stedry, Judy Storch, Joe Szewc, Tom McConomy. i 
-Elaine Nord. Headline StaffVan Andersen, Pat Naugle, Dan Byers, j 
p StaffEllroy Wildhaber, Don Wildman, Bill Hurley. Advertising Staff 
Greenwald, Mimi Stem, Joan Newman. Circulation StaffRalph Antonlto.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., 
College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription 
$1.10 per year.
En tered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa,, under act of March 3, 1879 Accepted for mailing at special 
rate of postage provided for In the Act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press, Intercollegiate Press.
Give Blood
It is to be assumed that most of the students 
at Tech know that the Red Cross Bloodmobile will 
be on campus this Thursday. However, the trickle 
of students who have offered to donate is a pretty 
sorry thing to see. Ill wager not a student at Tech 
would be so selfish or so spiteful as to deny that 
a pint of blood is one of the most worthwhile con
tributions he or she could make to his fellow man. 
It is especially meaningful to the college student 
whether he may someday need it himself or whether 
he is lucky enough that this is probably the big
gest sacrifice he will ever have to make for U. S. 
defense. In view of the staggering quantity of 
blood needed for one battle casualty, often limited 
by the supply alone, it is hard to see any excuse 
for the reluctance of many to give.
The usual motive for not volunteering seems to 
be fear of the process. Perfectly valid medical 
excuses eliminate so many would-be volunteers that 
the hesitant majority without any excuse need not 
fear social disapproval if they refuse. Some are 
willing to sign up only when they are pinned down 
by friends.
This must give outsiders a mighty low opinion 
of student character. Sure, most of us are afraid
Scot Retorts
Editor, the Tartan:
It appears that the Tartan has once again been 
faced with its chronic problem of finding something 
to write about, and so, groping about, has come 
up with an editorial which made pretense of tak
ing issue with the comments on the passing of the 
King of Hearts ball which appeared in the last Scot. 
Characteristically, the Tartan, counting on a pretty 
credulous public, dragged out one of its labored 
arguments which are based on evading real issues 
and brushing aside with a brief jest.
The Tartan began by pointing out that there 
are only 168 hours per week (a fact familiar to 
most of us), a goodly number of which are taken 
up with sleeping, eating, studying, and the like. 
And, the tabloid went on to say, there isnt time 
for all of us to realize all of our ambitions such 
as reading all of Spillane or bowling 300an acute 
observation. This is no doubt true for most people 
with normal ambitions. Nevertheless, and the 
Tartan gets rather vague at this point, there is 
time to do things which are worth doing and the 
King of Hearts is worth doing.
The Tartan overlooks, or perhaps is unaware of, 
the fact that the campus sustained quite nicely a 
King of Hearts campaign every year for same time 
past except for this year with no ill effects. Some
thing hasnt given way somewhere, as they fear. 
And as for allotment of ones time being the de
cision of the individual, it is not clear to us just 
why that ceases to be the case when the King of 
Hearts campaign is conducted. No one is under 
pain of mortal sin to participate in it.
Then, with typical eyes-closed, reasoning, the 
Tartan takes refuge behind the admitted nebulous 
ness of school spirit. It seems rather futile to 
try to explain something of this sort to a mind 
which fails to recognize intangibles. Still, if we 
may reiterate for the benefit of those who couldnt 
get it the first time, there are many things which 
are worth doing simply for the pleasure of doing.
If the Tartan feels it needs some material justi
fication of King of Hearts we might speak in terms 
of experience and opportunity to utilize ones tal
ent (and perhaps realize some of the ambitions for 
which we havent time). This argument is some
what extraneous, however, since the King of Hearts 
was worthwhile simply for the fun of doing it.
So, if the Tartan gets hard up for editorial 
material again, we sincerely hope that they will 
find something on which they can prepare a less 
forced argument. The Tartan editor might do well 
to practice what he preaches instead of resorting 
to vagueness and flippancy when the going gets 
sticky. Perhaps he might learn something from 
the saying of the pot calling the kettle black.
Yours truly,
Scot Editorial Staff.
Editors note: We will not take the effort to an
swer in detail the charges set forth in the above 
letter, which is just as vague as the Scots original 
arguments for King of Hearts. The letter was obviously written in haste by one who has neither*the 
time nor inclination to be either fair or logical. It 
is certainly appropriate that such a letter should 
come from the Scot.
We see in the labored and lengthy sentences of 
this letter that we are accused of hiding from fact 
by use of jest and flippancy. Let us point out that 
the Scot editorial titled Angel in the Cosmos" 
could be accused of the same crime. The Soots 
comments on birdwatching can hardly be called of 
a serious nature.
We are not sure just who wrote this letter, since 
the so-called variety magazine has recently chang
ed editors with every issue, (either because they 
could not stand it, or it could not stand them) and 
we do not wish to know.
At any rate, the above juvenile outburst is being printed to satisfy the desires of the writers so 
that further complaint will not be made by those 
who wrote it. We trust that they will be soothed 
to see their flimsy argument in print.
It would be to the great advantage of us all if 
the unhappy editors of the Scot would spend more 
time inmproving the nature of the own publication 
instead of hurling brickbats at the Tartan. We certaily are not objecting to sincere and constructive 
criticism, but the above letter can hardly be con
sidered anything more than an irrational outcry on 
the part of a few small individuals upon reading 
what was meant to be an objective answer to their 
editorial of some weeks ago.
of the needle; but some have learned to set aside 
childish fears voluntarily when faced with a need 
of such importance, not just when greater personal 
harm is the only alternative. Having made a moun
tain out of a molehill you will find the task much 
easier than you think. If you have no other ex
cuse its not too late to think about signing up to 
deserve consideration as a mature and decent maa 
or woman.
Sincerely,
A Once Reluctant Donor.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 21, 1953CARNEGIE TARTAN Page S
DRINK
Thinclads Open Season At Grove City
Tartan Track Team Seeks Third 
Consecutive Undefeated SeasonScot Tennis Squad To Meet Duquesne Here On Saturday
This Saturday afternoon Techs 
tennis squad will meet Duquesne 
on the Tartan courts.
Coach Frank Moses expects to 
field a team equal or better than 
last years, which went undefeated. 
All the members of last years 
squad are back. These include 
Bob^Wiederhorn, senior; Bob Duffuss, Don Duncklee, and Mahlon 
Saibel, juniors; Jim Miller, Jack 
Rugheimer, and Allen Glasser, 
sophomores.
Two freshmen, Don Tsiang and 
Noel Gillette are strong contend
ers for the first six positions. Due 
to the beautiful April weather, 
the round robin play to determine 
the first team has not been com
pleted.
To Coach Moses knowledge, 
Techs tennis rivals have prospects 
no better than last year, so per
haps, if the team is cheered on, it 
will again go undefeated.
On Monday, April 27, the tennis 
team will match the Bethany Bisons on the Tech courts.
Spring Practice 
Halfback Eddie Miller carries the pigskin through the middle as 
Coaches Baker and Hirshberg look on approvingly in a spring prac
tice skirmish.
Gridders Down Pitt J V 
In Practice Game 19-6Track Changes
The following changes have been 
made in the 1953 track schedule at 
the request of the colleges in
volved:
April 18: Case meet canceled 
at Cleveland be
cause of difficulties 
in arranging for 
practice and meet 
field.
April 29: Geneva will at the 
Tech Bowl April 29, 
instead of the orig
inal date of April 
28. Time: 4:00 p.m..
May. 7: Washington and Jef
ferson college will 
be at the Tech Bowl 
May 7, instead of 
May 6. Time: 4:00 
p.m.
Patronize 
Tartan Advertiser*
Sure way to brino- on the dancing girio
B8I mf0 -uiR
In 
Photographic 
Equfpment and Supplies
hMkMkAK0Ipt
mldm ^oto 
Supply
OR lb*P v b o* O88/ imw
P\XXX Easy 
Sales Agent Wanted
We are looking for an agent 
to sell nationally advertised 
drawing instrument sets to en
tering CARNEGIE Freshmen 
this fall term. Very high com
missions. Write: Sis. Mgr., EM
PIRE ENGRG SUPPLY CO., 
P. O. BOX 114, CANAL ST. 
STA., NYC 13, N. Y.
The golf team has begun practice 
for its coming spring schedule 
which opens Friday, April 24 in 
Washington, Pennsylvania.
Qualifying rounds for varsity 
berths were shot Monday by the 
aspiring candidates. The success
ful applicants will be named on 
Thursday, April 23.
Frank Moses is coaching the 
team at the present time substi
tuting for Bill Rodgers who will 
resume his duties as coach later in 
the season.
Wythe  
:0/UG: F(I0H/ m8pm 
18eeHI 5Umf FmHt%w
DpnHI80/
WfIm\ I8Gn/ (8Lm
yelet conar.
To be a guy with the dolls, 
youve got to take the sub
ject of shirts seriously. Best 
way is to study the smart 
Manhattan styleswith 
comfort and long wear built 
in. Why not stop in your 
Manhattan mens shop to
daysee many more mostfor-your-money values in 
distinctive Manhattan 
menswear.
Campus capers call for Coke
In the Spring, young folks* fancy
lightly turns and turns and turns. 
Right nowrefreshments in order. 
They'll have H Coke.
OTTliO UNDM AUTHORITY Of TH* COCA-COIA COMPANY IY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OP PITTSBURGH
Hlland 1-7011 
@ l%oo\ TMI N,NTbN,VT N,LDTrg
6722 Center Avenue 
f c I0gAm0I0/ mp8/1b:8Ikw

---------------------------------------------------

rase 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday,' April 81, 1953
Heated competition features soccer play as the teams battle for 
the intramural crown.
Tartan Intramural Swimmers 
To Meet Pitt Champs Thursday
Chuck Gough Coaches Tartan IM Mermen;
Phi Lambda Phi Are Pitt Champs; PiKA Tech
Thursday afternoon, April 23, at 5:30 in the Tartan pool, those 
who placed first and second in the Tech intramural swimming cham
pionships will meet the University of Pittsburgh's IM champs.
Square Dancers 
Attend Kent State 
University Festival
Twelve members of the square 
dance club attended the second 
annual folk and square dance fes
tival at Kent State university, 
Kent, Ohio,, on April 11, 1953.
The festival started Friday aft
ernoon with simple square and 
round dancing, demonstrations, 
and lectures. Saturday afternoon 
there was a square dance party. 
Students from the Tri-State area 
colleges were present at the fes
tival.
The Square Dance club is plan
ning a festival of this type for 
sometime next March. Arrange
ments are being made now for a 
definite date.
Chuck Gough Coach
The Scot team, coached by 
Chuck Gough, is composed main
ly of PiKA and BSR swimmers. 
The Tech mermen have the ad
vantage of swimming in their 
home pool. This, and the times of 
the IM meet, indicate a good 
showing by the Scots.
Phi Lambda Phi vs PiKA 
Unfortunately very little is 
known about the Pitt team, or 
their times. Phi Lambda Phi won 
the Pitt contest, while PiKA tri
umphed for the Tech champion
ship.
Tech Lineup
50 yd. freestyleBill Myers . . PiKA
Phil Lubitz ................................. BSR
100 yd. free styleChuck Gough PiKA
Jerry Berman ........................ BSR
150 yd. free styleChuck Gough PiKA
Anderson ................................... DTD
50 vd. backstrokeDon Barvoets PiKA
Track Change
Upon request of Geneva col
lege, the date of the track 
meet with Geneva at the Tech 
Bowl has been changed from 
Tuesday, April 28, to Wednes
day. April 29.
Intramural Bridge
Intramural bridge team ros
ters are due at the intramural 
office, room 104, gymnasium, 
on Friday, April 23. Under
graduates, graduates, (both 
men and women) and faculty 
are eligible to compete.
Fraternities and Sororities
Open , account ana Get 
YOUR HJLL DISCOUNTOAKLAND HARDWARE
o*X* B,.-ui iRw
Chuck Tamulonis .................... PiKA
50 yd. backstrokeWalt Schey BSR
Rudy Sapper ......... ................. PiKA j
200 id. relayMyers, Gough, Lubitz, 
Sapper or Schey.
150 yd. medley relayBarvoets, Schey, 
Myers.
University Recreation
BOWLING
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
XPbXd N.TVG iR.uuR 
iNf0ne0t lbdoXP
Rockets Down Duke Champs
The Rockets, Carnegie Techs 
intramural champs, downed the 
Urbanites from Duquesne Univer
sity, 58-41, to win the city bas
ketball championship. The Urban
ites had previously beaten Pitts 
intramural champs, whereas Tech 
drew a bye to qualify for the final 
playoffs for the three-ply crown.
The representatives of the Plaid 
fell behind at the end of the first 
quarter, 13-11, but rallied to lead 
at the half 20-21. They then outscored the Dukes, 20-12, in the 
third canto to settle the issue.
Devos, Kohler, and Hunt led the
Tartan scorers with 14, 11, and 11 
points respectively, while Laughlin and Meyers led the boys from 
the Bluff with 19 andj.16.
BOX SCORE
CIT
Hunt
Verman
Zuninga
Kohler
DAllessio
AnayaDevos
Soura
F Pts.DUKES 
3 11| Jeffreys
7| Collins 
lj Miller 
ll|Laughlin 2 Meyers 
6|McCorrey 
14 6
I Bmw 
1 3
Totals 24 10 58 Totals5 41
Soccer
The Sigma Nu-Obelisks 
championship soccer game is 
to be played tomorrow.
The young executive
MAKES HIS MARK IN RETAILING 
THROUGH SPECIALIZED TRAINING
One-yeor Course
itadt to 
Matters 
Degree
Specialized training speeds college grads 
to top retail jobs. Interesting positions open 
in buying, advertising, fashion, personnel, 
management and teaching. Realistic class
room approach. Supervised store experience 
with pay. Coeducational. Graduates placed.* 
Scholarships available.
i0n/ p8I -Gee0mUn N
SCHOOL OF RETAILING
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
rmsBF
UE HAUTMCHDB
HALLMARK CARDS INVITES YOU TO 
AN IMPORTANT TELEVISION EVENTMR. MAURICE EVANS
in his two-hour television production 
of WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE'SHAMLET
ON
THE HALLMARK HALL OF FAME
with MISS SARAH CHURCHILL
iGn/Ht Hpm0In88n\ T(IUe y*\ nHmU8n5U/0 8n r-N R0e0vUFU8n
Hallmark Cards proudly presents for the first time on television 
this complete two-hour, streamlined version of the most popular 
play ever written Shakespeares immortal''Hamlet.
It will star Mr. Maurice Evans with one of the most distin
guished companies ever to appear on television.
This special program is brought you by Hallmark Cards and the 
fine stores that feature them, as part of a year round program of 
bringing you "the very best in entertainment.
Every Sunday throughout the year Hallmark Cards invites 
you to two dramatic programs honoring men and womenboth 
famous and little knownwho have helped make a better, 
happier world.
o" (
uv0It iGn/HtWr-N 
R0e0vUFU8n r0m58Ikw
The Hallmark Hall 
of Fame on TV star
ring Sarah Churchill. 
Directed by Albert 
McCleery.
uv0It iGn/Ht nUgfmb 
N-i IH/U r0m58Ikw
The Hallmark radio 
Hall of Fame star^ 
ring Lionel Barry, 
more. Directed 
William Gay.
fecrAuse -me ToRe 
pRl -mes u> w
Strving Maryland, Ohio, Pennsylvania, 
Virginia and Wtst Virginia from
Liberty Ave. at Grant St. 
Pittsburgh, Fa. CO 1-1800
'When you care enough to send the very best*

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 21, 1953CARNEGIE TARTAN Page
* CARNEGIE-^//
Page edited by Evening School Students oi the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor ............................................................................................................... Victor Sabo1
Reporters ...... Anna Mae Legosh, Irma Mascaro, Margaret Schaefer,
George Schussler.
the set), Telechron Clock-Radio, 
and other valuable prizes. This 
year as never before Council will 
have on hand, in addition to the 
regular door prizes, about 50 consollation prizes. All this plus 
group singing, for only $4.75 per 
ticket. Tickets may be purchased 
from any council member or in 
Mr. McKelways office.
Tickets
Tickets for Scotch 'n Sod* 
will be on sale in Administra
tion Hall on April 21, 23, and 
29. The tickets will be on 
sale from 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. 
and are SI.25 apiece.
.urR T RgDuO.VRu.
A Month
2 MONTHS FOR $10
RgDuO.VRu.i
AU Rindt M Low 
American Typewriter Co,il wood st. rn i.micMore BOUNCE to the OunceConvenient ParkingSU1 Sobol
Fighting Plaid Editor
AVIATIONS MOST EXCITING 
ENGINEERING TEAM...
and the new electronic wonders 
which simulate jet flight,' Link 
produces flexible gunnery train
ers, simulated search and inter
cept radar equipment, radar 
navigational equipment, and 
the latest in modern navigational training the High Alti
tude Celestial Navigation Train
er. Link is also doing extensive 
research and development work 
in the non-military fields of 
industrial electronic controls, 
scientific instruments, and elec
tronic medical equipment.
The friendly, informal spirit 
that permeates the entire Link 
organization from President, 
Allan Williford, down, plus em
ployee insurance, medical and 
vacation benefits, make Link 
the ideal spot for the graduate 
engineer to begin his career.
The Binghamton area *here 
the Link plants are located, is 
well known for its diversified 
sports and social activities, ii 
addition to good housing facil
ities, hunting, fishing and water 
sports. I
If you, as a graduate engi
neer, are interested in learn
ing more about the career 
opportunities at Link, you 
nay secure  booklet entitled
A Link in your Future' 
by writing to:
Mgr. of Industrial Relation* 
Link Aviation, Inc. 
Binghamton, N. Y.
Any graduate engineer seeking 
fascinating, long-range oppor
tunities of more than average 
cope, will find that at Link 
Aviation, Inc., he will be work
ing with a group of top-notch 
engineers in the design and 
building of complex electronic 
devices, destined to set a pattern 
in the field of jet aviation. De
pending upon your interests and 
aptitudes, you may be assigned 
to jet engineering work on com
puter components or systems, 
or in production planning, con
trol, or plant engineering.
You may find a spot in sev
eral of the major departments 
in general engineering, testing 
and adjustment, or production, 
where you will work as part of 
a team of electronic engineers.
For the man who prefers out
side personal contact work in a 
highly technical field, excellent 
opportunities exist in our Field 
Service Department. In this 
phase of Link on-the-job train
ing, the graduate engineer will 
undergo four months of special 
training before being assigned 
to an Air Force or Navy air 
installation.
During its quarter of a cen
tury of progress, Link has be
come known as the leader in the 
highly specialised electronic 
and electro-mechanical fields. 
In addition to the world-famous 
Link Trainer of World War II
All the roads 
lead to Kankakee
Some routes, naturally, are longer than 
others. But if there is less traffic on them, 
they might get you to Kankakee faster.
The same holds true of your Long 
Distance calls. When circuits are tempo
rarily busy on the most direct route for 
your call, a new electronic brain in the 
telephone office automatically selects alter
nate routes. They may be hundreds of 
miles longer, but the detour saves you time.
And the entire operation of selection 
and rerouting is done in a split second!
The Bell System people who perfected, 
maintain and operate this electronic 
switching system have one goal: to make 
the best telephone service in the world 
even better. Would you like to join this 
competent, aggressive team?
There are many opportunities in the 
Bell System in engineering, business ad
ministration, accounting, and other fields. 
Your Placement Officer can give you the 
details.L.w RVRZuE 
8# eUnk TvUHmU8n 5Uee K0 8n your 1H:(GF 8n
APRIL 22Bell Telephone System

---------------------------------------------------

ree 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 21, 1953
Vp t8G 1Hn :Hk0 mf0 gIH/0\ mf0 
Aw iw TUI B8I10 5Uee H5HI/ t8G H 
18::UFFU8n\ t8GI 5UngF Hn/ (Ht 
t8G 8v0I %s\XXX H t0HI!
RauTR.u 
JT lbXPXXBEACONETiR y nTgi
Squirrel Hill's Only ShowingrVo 0/?e7b/e/Afe/
IN PERSON'ELLIOT FORBES
Awiw TV. B,.Nu
Tickets
Tickets for the 1953 Scotch 
n Soda production, Shoot the 
Works will go on sale tomor
row, and everyday thereafter, 
in Skibo at 11:30. Seats are 
still available for the opening 
night, Tuesday, May 5, and 
the following two perform
ances.
New Aviation Cadet Training Classes Begin Every Few Weeksf
William A. Stewart 
Receives Tan Beta 
Honor Fellowship
William A. Stewart, senior me
chanical engineer, has been select
ed by Tau Beta Pi, national engi
neering society, for a graduate fel
lowship valued at $1,200 for the 
academic year of 1953-54. Bill will 
use the fellowship award for ad
vanced work in mechanical and 
nuclear engineering at Massachu
setts Institute of Technology next 
year.
Active on campus, Bill is presi
dent of the Carnegie chapter of 
Tau Beta Pi, president of Omicron 
Delta Kappa (national activities 
honorary), Editor-in-Chief of the 
Carnegie Technical, president of 
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon frater
nity. vice president of Scabbard 
and Blade (ROTC honorary), and 
a member of Student Council.
All Tau Beta Pi fellowships are 
awarded on the competitive basis 
of high scholarship, campus lead
ership and service, promise of fu
ture development in the engineer
ing profession, and need for finan
cial assistance in graduate work. 
Applicants are all members of Tau 
Beta Pi, and winners may take 
their advanced study in any field 
on engineering and at any institu
tion of their choice.
Graphic InstituteJLSponsors Show Of 50 Best Books
The thirteenth annual 50 Books 
of the Year Exhibition of the 
American Institute of Graphic Arts 
began April 4 and will continue 
through April 25 at Carnegie li
brary in Oakland. The exhibition 
is sponsored by the Tech chapter 
of the American Institute of 
Graphic Arts under the leadership 
of Homer E. Sterling, faculty ad
visor.
The exhibition was planned ancl ; 
is being conducted by a Chicago ; 
membership committee of the 
AIGA with circulation handled ! 
jointly by the American federation 
of arts.
The exhibit consists mainly of 
50 books, chosen from 574 entries, 
ani represents a balanced and 
va-ied selection of the main classes 
of book production.
Since the purpose of the affair 
is public demonstration of the 
principles of good design and 
craftsmanship in book manufac- ] 
ture, the works submitted were I 
judged not for literary content but 
ior graphic art forms.
A tape recording of an interview j 
with Mr. Sterling was made for j 
later release on radio.
HERES WHAT TO DO:
V. Take a transcript of your college credits and a copy 
of your birth certificate to your nearest Air Force 
Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application 
they give you.
2. If application is accepted, the Air Force will arrange 
for you to take a physical examination.
ow Next, you will be given H written and manual apti
tude test.
w If you pass your physical and other tests, you will 
be scheduled for an Aviation Cadet Training Class. 
The Selective Service Act allows you a four-month 
deferment while waiting class assignment.
WOMEN OfflMMENONIYat 2 w* 7 P. M.  at 9 P. M.
4/here to J^et tnote details SUFUm t8GI n0HI0Fm TUI B8I10 -HF0 8I TUI B8I10 .01IGUmUng ,ppU10I; 
,. O.VRu R, ? TSVTRV,r NTnuR auTnQAT.Ru.i\ Aw iw TV. B,.Nu\ OTiaVrGR,r ys\ nw Nw
Patronize Our Advertisers
Dic kFr take it 6 days a week? For 52 weeks? Can 
you meet the high standards required to be an Avia
tion Cadet? If you canthen heres a man-size oppor
tunity! An opportunity to serve your country and 
build a personal career that will fit you for responsible 
positions both in military and commercial aviation.
It wont be easy! Training discipline for Aviation 
Cadets is rigid. Youll work hard, study hard, play 
hard ^-especially for the first few weeks. But when its 
over, youll be a prowith a career ahead of you that 
will take you as far as you want to go. You graduate 
as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Air Force, with pay of 
$5,300.00 a year. And this is only the beginning
your opportunities for advancement are unlimited.
T.u g,A uEVGV-Eu?
To qualify as an Aviation Cadet, you must have com
pleted at least two years of college. This is a minimum 
requirementits best if you stay in school and gradu
ate. In addition, you must be between 19 and 2614 
years, unmarried, and in good physical condition.
g,A NTr Na,,iu -uROuur 
DVE,R ,. TV.N.TBR ,-iu.Su.
If you choose to be an Aircraft Observer, your train
ing will be in Navigation, Bombardment, Radar 
Operation or Aircraft Performance Engineering.
1^ Your Boy...your Girl, growing up 
in Ignorance? Mother, FathersThis is 
a Tremendously Importent Educational 
Event for you... for them!
Student Council
Due to a discrepancy in the 
balloting for the elections at 
the last Student Council meet
ing which was not discovered 
i-ntil later, a special meeting 
has been called for April 26.
Your I.D. CRD Means15% offRVLu ia,D
 Watch Repairs
 Lighters  Gifts
 Watches  Jewelry
 Identification Bracelets 
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
