VOL. 50No. 1 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., SEPT. 25, 1956
Student Congress Elections 
Slated For Coming Week
Elections In Departmental Meetings
In order to get the new Student Council Constitution into opera
tion, it is necessary to have  Student Council. As last years Council 
is now defunct, the election and appointment of the members of the 
new three branch Council is of immediate importance.
The Legislative branch, called^;-............... ~
Student Congress, is made up of
Homecoming Queen Candidates
Front row: Bea Alexander, Ann Cargill. Middle row: Karin 
Carlsen, Norma Patterson, Zendy Long. Back row: Gloria Cofsky, 
Margie Snodgrass.
Seven Chosen To Run 
As Queen Candidates
Seven freshman women were elecied by their classmates on 
Thursday, September 21 to be candidates for Homecoming Queen. 
From these seven Techs male students will choose a queen and 
two attendants to reign over the Homecoming activities.
housing unit representatives, de
partmental representatives, and 
commuter representatives. One 
representative will be elected 
from each mens dorm, each 
Morewood tower, and each fra
ternity and sorority. These must 
be chosen, by next Wednesday, 
October 3, when the first Student 
Congress meeting will be held.
 Also to be chosen by that time 
are the departmental representa
tives. Each undergraduate depart
ment is entitled to at least one 
representative and not more than 
four. No more than one may come 
from any one class in any depart
ment.
The departmental representa
tives will be elected at open 
meetings to be held in each de
partment on Tuesday, October 2, 
iat 4:30 p.m. in various rooms to 
be announced. Watch the bulle
tin boards for notices of the num
ber of representatives to be 
elected from your department and 
the place for the meeting.
Before that time, all those in
terested in running for SC should 
give their names to their depart
ment heads. At the meetings, ad
ditional people may be nominated, 
and the required number will be 
Selected. Dorm, fraternity, and 
sorority representatives will be 
chosen at meetings to be held 
within the next week.
Commuter candidates are to get 
petitions in the Dean of Mens 
office and return them by Monday, 
at 4:30.
Orientation Week 
Highlights Include 
Tech Activity Fair
One of the Orientation Week 
highlights was the Delta Skullsponsored Activities Fair held 
Thursday afternoon, September 
13, from 1:30 until 4:30 in the 
Carnegie Union.
Starting from the Fine Arts 
' Little Theater, groups of freshinen proceeded to the Union 
r\vhere many of the student organ
izations had set up tables and dis
plays to recruit members. Politi
cal and religious groups as well 
as Scotch n Soda, WRCT and 
other major organizations used 
the sitting rooms on the lower 
floors, while the publications 
opened their offices on the third 
floor to the freshmen. Delta Skull 
provided refreshments and enter
tainment during the Fair. 
y The only previo*s endeavor 
similar to the Delta Skull project 
was YWCAs Open House for the 
freshmen women in other years. 
While this project was fully suc
cessful as far as it went, it ex
cluded the large male population 
from a first hand knowledge of 
the Tech activities. The Activities 
Fair included was intended to the 
entire freshman population, and
as considered a success by the 
eshmen, the administration and 
the organizations themselves.
Candidates
All those wishing to run for 
Student Congress representa
tive from their department 
should leave their names and 
class with their department 
head by 4:30, Friday, Sep
tember 28.
Rabbi Ilson
At Assembly
The first of three lectures de
voted to the topic Religion and 
the Political Choice will be pre
sented by Rabbi Aaron B. Ilson, 
spiritual leader of Temple Sinai, 
in the Fine Arts Theatre at 11:30 
on Tuesday, October 2.
The series of three discussions, 
planned for consecutive Tuesdays 
by the Committee on Religious 
Activities, will concern three is
sues connected with the 1956 poli
tical campaignthe tension in the 
Middle East, segregation, and the 
ideology of totalitarianism. A 
speaker of prominence has been 
scheduled for each discussion.
The tension in the Middle East 
is to be the concern of Rabbi Il
son, appearing under the joint 
auspices of the Committee on Re
ligious Activities and the Bnai 
Brith Hillel Foundation, one of 
succeeding meetings will be spon
sored by the Student Christian 
Federation and the Newman Club.
Rabbi Ilson, who assumed the 
spiritual leadership of Temple 
Sinai over one year ago, served 
for five years as associate rabbi 
and educational director of Con
gregation Rodeph Sholom in New 
York City. He had previously 
been director of the Hillel Found
ation of the University of New 
Hampshire.
CommuterProbleni 
Solved By Council
Student Council has this year 
arrived at a workable solution to 
the problem of an adequate rep
resentation of the commuter on 
Council. Under this revision of the 
Student Council Constitution, the 
commuter will have the repre
sentation he merits by virtue of 
the size of the commuting body on 
the campus.
Every 100 commuting students 
will be represented by one com
muter on the legislative branch 
of Council, the Student Congress. 
This branch has the control of all 
of Student Council fund appro
priations, the power to revoke 
recognition of any student organ
ization as an official campus or
ganization, and the duty to enact 
all legislation necessary to the 
general welfare of the student 
body.
Each candidate for the com
muters representation must col
lect 100 signatures which -w*Hbe 
checked for duplication by A Phi
O. Upon presentation of these sig
natures at the dean of mens of
fice and validation of the signa
tures by A Phi O, the commuter 
becomes automatically a voting 
member of the Student Congress.
Longtime Problems
How to fairly represent the 
commuter in Student Council has 
been a problem for many years 
on this campus, since the old 2- 
party system of Independents vs. 
Greeks fell into disrepute after a 
year of repeated elections due to 
constant bickering over the cam
paigning methods. "Elections be
came so strenuous and frequent 
that two warring camps were cre
ated on campus.
This situation was justly felt to 
be beyond the scope of friendly 
competition and far into the field 
of unhealthy campus friction and 
so the Constitution was revised 
to prevent either faction from 
gaining control of Council through 
elections. The smoke soon died 
down, this system worked well 
Frontwn:Be on aAlB 8]
Less Than 200 
Pledge Fraternities 
At First Reckoning
By Sunday, September 23, a to
tal of 178 pledges were reported 
by the fraternities. Compared with 
last year, this is an increase of 
ten men, but is a large decrease 
as compared with the previous 
year when more than 200 pledged.
The following tabulation is, of 
course, not complete. A list of ad
ditional pledges will be published 
in two or three weeks. Those 
pledged at present are:
Alpha Tau Omega: Hank Ad
ams, Bart Alexander, William 
Braunlich, John Cashman, Charles 
Cathey, John Brassert, Boyd Doxtader, John Evans, James Komer, 
Orrin McCahon, Doug Miller, 
Tracy Narby, Leo Painter, Dave 
Schultz, Robert Svedberg, James 
Thompson, Hilliard Wood, Alex 
Valentine.
Beta Sigma Rlio: Stan Adler,!
[Continued on Page 2]
? Representing six departments,
! the candidates are Ann Cargill, a 
; social studies major from Somer
set, Pennsylvania; Karen Carsen.
| Rochester, N. Y., majoring in 
painting and design; Gloria Cof
sky, a prospective secretary from 
| McKeesport; Zendy Long, a clothj ing major from McKeesport; Mar
gie Snodgrass, ?lso in home eeoj nomics, of Mount Lebanon: Nor
ma Patterson, a biology major 
from Mt. Lebanon, and Bea Alex1 ander, a music student from 
; Uniontown.
The candidates wexe elected by 
the freshman women from 15 put 
: up by their deparaments. The 
j departments met separately at 
4:30 Thursday afternoon to select 
one or two candidates to repre
sent them. In the large election 
1 held a few minutes later on the 
! fourth floor of Margaret Morri; son, there were no stipulations 
| regarding departments, and it is 
! coincidental that such a wide se
lection of deprrtments is repre
sented.
Traditionally, a freshman wom
an is chosen Homecoming Queen. 
In past years the campaign rej quired much activity on the part 
of the candidates. However, in 
j 1955 the campaign was limited es
sentially to pictures. Therefore, 
| the queen and her court will be 
chosen mostly on the basis of pici tures and brief visits to Skibo and 
! the fraternities.
Last Semester's 
Scholastic Averaae 
Is Unusually High
The most amazing thing about 
last spring's scholastic averages 
was the ali school average, wrhich 
was 2.449. This is .10 above the 
previous semester average, and 
the highest in several years. The 
all men's average jumped from 
2.27 to 2.38 and the all women's 
average went from 2.56 to 2.64.
Among the fraternities, Tau 
Delta Phi made the largest gain 
and took the lead with & phe
nomenal 2.695. Pi Kappa Alpha 
retained second place for the third 
[Continued on Page 3\
New Houses Win Approval
I Al^er two weeks of chaotic fra' r- M^lli I ternity liv ing, the DU's and the
\  ! Betas seem to have taken a liking
a, ; " ^ I to their new homes. Moving in"
'j was followed by Ruch Week and 
'' ^ v JI the first week of classes. This is
t  enough to tax the facilities of any
llllfl -. . ... ......... | fraternitys abode. However, the
............................... 8H | )eita Upsilons and the Beta Theta
mm ;: jMMillji I Pis are unanimous in their hearty
la I approval of the new units. 
trr^MOi Both group? maintain that the 
p 'UK' life ElE : neu houses will l>e much easier
' to keep clean than lie former ones
v - were The kitchens, for instance.
aIV reported to be '-ms of eff;-
e c t io  - ' ' ' , wU* ;
: Two Study Systems
The ! >e. who 1 . ? ii
that this will help build scholar- New DU and Beta Houses f ship by cutting down the bull
The first of the new fraternity dorms is virtually complete ex-  sessions and creating better study 
cept for some landscaping, and excavation is well under way for the conditions. The DUs, on the other 
second uuit. j Lrontwn:Be on aAlB 3]

---------------------------------------------------

Fase 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 1956
ISeveral Appointments
Made ToFill Vacancies
Dr. Margaret LeClair is the new dean of Margaret Morrison Car
negie College. She was appointed to succeed Mrs. Edith Alexander, 
who retired at the end of last semester.
Dr. LeClair joined the Carnegie Tech faculty in 1946 as an
instructor in English. One year 
later she became an assistant pro
fessor, and in 1953 she was pro
moted to the rank of associate 
professor. Then on July 1, 1955, 
she replaced the retiring head of 
the department of general studies, 
Miss Ethel Spencer.
After receiving her B.A. degree 
from Ohio Wesleyan College in 
1933, Dr. LeClair continued her 
studies at Ohio State University 
where she received her M.A. deDr. Margaret F. LeClair
New Dean of MMCC
gree in 1934. She was awarded her 
Ph.D. degree while connected 
with the teaching staff and re
mained at Ohio State as an in
structor in English until 1944. For 
the two years before she came to 
Carnegie Tech she was an assist
ant professor of English at New 
York State College for Teachers 
at Buffalo, New York.
She is married to Charles Le
Clair who is head of the art de
partment at Chatham College. Al
though Dr. LeClairs creative ef
forts are mostly in the area of 
writing, she is very interested in 
her husbands art career.
Dr. E. xd,, Steinberg 
Dr. Erwin R. Steinberg will re
place Dr. LeClair as head of the 
department of geenral studies. Dr. 
Steinberg, who came to Carnegie
Tech as an instructor in English 
in 1946, received his Ph.D. from 
New York University this year. 
He will continue his duties as as
sociate professor in the depart
ment of English.
Dr. R. E. Parshall 
On July 1, Dr. Raymond E. Par
shall assumed his new duties as 
director of the Division of Student 
Personnel and Welfare. A gradu
ate of Wooster College, Dr. Par
shall earned his masters and doc
tors degrees from Yale University. 
In 1930 he joined Techs faculty 
as an instructor in English and 
later became an assistant profes
sor in English. In 1946 he was 
appointed to serve as assistant to 
the president. Since then, he has 
been secretary to the Executive 
Board, assistant secretary to the 
Executive Committee of the Board 
of Trustees, secretary to the Edu
cational Policy Committee and 
campus adviser for the Fulbright, 
Marshall, and Rhodes Scholarships.
Dr. W. M. Schutte 
Replacing Dr. Parshall as assist
ant to the president is Dr. Wil
liam M. Schutte. He earned bach
elor, master, and doctorate de
grees from Yale and in 1947 be
came a member of Carnegie Techs 
English department. Dr. Schutte 
has worked on a series of tele
vision presentations concerning the 
modern American novel which 
were presented in the spring of 
1955. This spring he will publish 
a book on James Joyce.
Dr. Martha E. Foy 
Another new appointee is Dr. 
Martha E. Foy, dean of women. 
She replaces Mrs. R. L. Hackett 
who left last summer after serving 
as acting dean of women since 
July 1954.
In 1939 Dr. Foy received her B.S. 
degree from Greenville College in 
Illinois. Later she earned an M.S. 
degree at the University of Pitts
burgh and in 1953 received a Ph.D. 
in sociology from there.
Before her recent appointment 
she was the director of Methodist 
student work in Pittsburgh. She 
has had considerable teaching ex
perience in the past.
STUDENTS'!
Starts Thursday. Sept. 20th
The most 
revealing 
life-inspired 
story ever 
filmed!
VOLOV Fronotwn wto best sellerKIRK DOUGLASUJSTFORUEE
tn CINEMASCOPE and METROCOtOR  CO-Starring
. 'MS DONALD - PAMELA BM
Feature TimesDaily7:40-9:55 
Sat. and Sun.3:10-5:25-7:40-9:55
4iS-i *W r ,>,r.s*u^ MURRAY AT BEACONGuild ^ SQUIRREL HIIL JA.KWO
Use This Advertisement For
SPECIAL DISCOUNT
.CUT HERE and USE,,
Elections
AH presidents of Carnegie 
Techs student organizations 
are reminded of the meeting 
to elect representatives to the 
Executive Council of Student 
Council on Wednesday, Sep
tember 26, at 4:30 in Porter 
Hall.
Degrees Given 790 
Carnegie Students 
At Commencement
Five eminent men of our times 
received honorary degrees from a 
school which has given only nine 
honoraries in its entire history 
until this year.
At commencement exercises in 
Pittsburghs Syria Mosque, Car
negie Institute of Technology 
honored Admiral Lewis L. 
Strauss, chairman of the U.S. 
Atomic Energy Commission; Rich
ard King Mellon, financier-philanthropist; James B. Fisk, Bell 
Telephone Laboratories execu
tive vice president; James H. 
Kindelberger, North American 
Aviation board chairman, and Lon 
H. Colborn, a high school chem
istry teacher.
790 Degrees Awarded
Bachelors degrees were confer
red upon 623 candidates, 311 of 
them from the College of Engi
neering and Science. This college 
also awarded 90 masters degrees 
and 49 doctorates, One master of 
science degree was given post
humously to Gerald Louckes of 
Alliance, Ohio, who was killed in 
an automobile accident last Sep
tember on the way to his first job 
after completing his require^ 
ments in chemical engineering. 
Top engineering and science stu
dent was Edward Albert Feigenbaum, an electrical engineering 
major from North Bergen, NJ., 
who held a General Electric
Scholarship at Carnegie.
In the College of Fine Arts, 120 
candidates received Bachelors 
and 7 were given masters degrees. 
Heading the honor roll was 
drama major Nancy Helen Cole 
of Palo Alto, California. Among 
the Fine Arts graduates were 
three Fulbright scholarship winn e r s: Claude Jenkins, Stuart
Knoop and Sylvester Damianos.
73 ES Graduates
Highest honors among the 110 
Margaret Morrison graduates 
went to Carol jo Forsythe Lee of 
Valencia, Pa. In the school of 
printing management, Olav Peer 
Soelberg of Oslo, Norway, headed 
the list of 41 graduates, and Herschel Edward Kenter of Balti
more, Maryland, took the highest 
honors among the 41 graduates 
in the department of industrial 
management.
Meter, Brent Mayo, Pete Wilson, .. 
William Oldham, Jim Macadam, 
Nathaniel Teich, Roger Reinke.
Kappa Sigma: Laird C. Simons 
Jr., James Renaldo, Albert Julg, 
John Brugos, Chuck Snyder, Larry 
B u r t n e r, Thomas Summerville, 
Michael G. Stroba, Robert Larry, 
Harry Desilets, Mike Grace, Henry 
Pearson Jr., Lindon J. Griffin, Lar
ry Mack, Walter Majeski. 
Pi Kappa Alpha: Alvin J. Al
bright, Donald G. Beaman, Patric 
D. Chamay, Roger D. Dressier, 
Mike Lee, Edward Lucente, James 
L. Lyons, David K. McMaster, 
Ants Mikk, Gerald H. Ryder, Ter
ence Smythe, James Willard, Rich
ard Werner.
Phi Kappa: Don Attanasio, Lloyd 
Battista, Ed Bergan, Edward Cass, 
William Cellio, Mike Cocivera, 
Don Cronauer, Michael Dougl" % 
erty, Victor Dozzi, Steve Kissell, 
Joseph Len, Robert Maher, Nick 
Marchiarolo, James Moore, Sidney 
Neff, Dick Talarico, Philip Wicklander.
Theta Xi: Samuel Bates, Thomas 
Bates, Carl Berney, Steve Finner, 
Galen Kline.
Sigma N u: Douglas Dauber, 
James Flowers, Joe Garrett, Rich
ard Haines, David Hall, Gordon 
Kilgore, John Mesaros, Ulbo Mijs, 
Steve Rinaldi, Richard Ross, Wil
liam Sheppard, James Swisher, Ed 
Wesolowski, Ronald Wosniak, Jack 
Jacox, Ned Ardelan.
Tau Delta Phi: Jay Abrams, 
Lee Adelsburg, Stephen Ames, 
Larry Appel, Mike Bass, Herbert 
Birns, Richard Boncuk, Rene Colen, Sherman Chottiner, Bryan 
Dopier, Gilbert Friedman, Preston 
Ginsburg, Jerry Goldberg, Di*#5 
Gronaur, Arnold Kohn, Elliot 
Lachenbach, Allen Lazer, Steve 
Renard, Yale Roth, Don Schwarz, 
Eric Stufnick, Steve Tecot, Bruce 
Weiner.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Delbert
John Greene, James HarPete Morehouse, Rayford Nix, 
Roger Rutnam, Dick Wenger, Joe 
Williamson, Sam Miller.
Pledges
[Continued from Page 1] 
Neil Brown, Sheldon Balbirer, 
Rick Finn, Fred Fried, Dick Gold
stein, George Levine, Wolfe Lowenthal, Charles Marks, Norm Ostrow, Mike Riskin, Arnold Roffman, Joel Rosenthal, Len Shechter, Stan Skalka, Larry Solov, Joe 
Tawil, Dick Wein, Mike Wineberger, Herb Zimmerman, Paul Zonderman, Jules Fisher, Larry Frishman.
Beta Theta Pi: Frank Ball, Bob 
Butler, Woody Clark, Bruce Dob
ras, Tom Ellis, Pete Fisher, Tom 
Frueshtorfer, Jim Jones, Vic Kaczur, Tim McGuire, Herb Olds, Joe 
Rzapko, Mike Tomaline, Joe Vilga, 
Dick Waina, Guy Wallis, Paul 
Walter, A1 Winters.
Delta Tau Delta: Denny Appel, 
Dave Arrington, Dick Engelhardt, 
Charies Fair, Bill Ford, John 
Gantt, Jim Linduff, Paul Lipton, 
Dick Lull, Jack McDonough, Bill 
Montgomery, Bob Watson.
Delta Upsilon: Chuck Buerger, 
Myron Bernstein, Lew Clark, Mike 
Ellegood, Stu Solomon, Mike Van
Sttuden
casual WEAR
TheB.M.O.C. is here!
Big model on campus, that is. Its the new 
Arrow. University shirt... all-around choice 
of smart college men, from button-down 
collar in frontto center button and full 
box pleat in back. And these men are really 
traveling in style with their Arrow ties .  
in the seasons highest rated patterns.
Oxford cloth shirt (in white and five muted 
colors, including new linen), $5.00; same 
model in authentic tartan stripes, $5.95; 
checks and stripes in cotton-rayon, $7.95
01251394

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 25, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
Houses
[Continued from Page 2] 
hand, have kept the pattern of the 
older houses on campus. That is, 
they have three and four-man 
study rooms with two large sleep
ing rooms. This, they add will aid 
scholarship by providing a place 
for the men to rest without being 
bothered by those who are burn
ing the midnight oil.
There had been complaints that 
the new units were too similar to 
dormitories and that they lacked
On Campuswith
MajcShulman
Cg:tio. oM KsA.BMoot soN mwti riBBP BtZ,y
ANOTHER YEAR, ANOTHER DOLLAR
Today I begin the third year of writing this col
umn for Philip Morris Cigarettes, and I am merry in 
my heart. -
I am merry for several reasons. First, because I am 
being paid.
Not, let me hasten to state, that an emolument was 
necessary. Sirs, I said a few days ago to the makers 
of Philip Morris, who underneath their dickeys are as 
friendly as pups and twice as cute, Sirs, I said to this 
winsome assemblage, there is no need to pay me for 
writing this column. If I can introduce Americas college 
men and women to Philip Morriss natural tobacco good
ness, if I can inaugurate them into the vast sodality of 
Philip Morris smokers and thus enhance their happiness, 
heighten their zest, upgrade their gusto, magnify their 
cheer, broaden their bliss, augment their glee, and in
crease their PQ
PQ? said the makers, looking at me askance.
Pleasure Quotient, I explained.
Ah! said the makers, nodding their sweet, shaggy 
heads.
If, I continued, I can do these splendid things for 
the college population of America, there is no need for 
money, because I am more than amply repaid.
We wept then. I am not ashamed to say it. WE 
WEPT! I wish the wiseacres who say big business is 
cold and heartless could have been there that day. I wish 
they could have witnessed the deep, croaking sobs that 
racked the gathering, the great, shimmering tears that 
splashed on the boardroom table. We wept, every manjack of us. The makers wept. The secretaries wept. I 
wept. My agent, Clyde Greedy, wept. We wept all.
No, no! cried one of the makers, whose name is 
Good Sam. We insist on paying you.
Oh, all right, I said.
Then we laughed. The gloom passed like a summer 
shower. We all laughed and chose up sides and played 
stoop-tag and had steaming mugs of cocoa and lit plump, 
firm, white cigarettes, brimming full of natural tobacco 
goodness. I mean Philip Morris, of corris!
fay (p 0ouble-03te mjr?
Refreshed and exalted, we returned to the busi
ness at hand. Now then, said one of the makers, whose 
name is Merry Andrew, what will you write about in 
your column this year?
About students and teachers, I said. About classes 
and cutting. About eds and coeds. About Greeks and 
independents. About the important issues that occupy 
the supple young minds of college America.
Like what? asked one of the makers, whose name 
is Tolable David.
Like how to finance a full social life without a re
volver, I replied. Like how to wear Bermuda shorts 
though your knees look like brain-coral. Like how to 
double-date in an MG.
And will you, asked one of the makers, whose name 
is Peter-Sit-by-the-Fire, from time to time say a pleas
ant word about Philip Morris Cigarettes, which are how 
available in two sizes  Regular in the familiar SnapOpen Pack, and Long Size in the new Crushproof Box? 
Crazy kid! I chuckled, pushing my fist gently 
against his jaw. You know I will.
And we all shook hands  silently, firmly, manlily  
and I left, dabbing at my eyes with my agent, and hurried 
to the nearest typewriter.
Max Shulman, 1956
The makers of Philip Morris take pleasure in bringing you 
this uncensored, free-wheeling column each week during the 
school year and also in bringing you today*s new Philip 
Morris, packed with natural tobacco goodness, lip end to tip end.
individuality. Both groups explain 
that this is only a temporary 
problem which will be solved as 
soon as they have time to individ
ualize the quarters. The only 
complaint heard from either frat 
concerns working space. Appar
ently no space has been left for 
a small workshop for work on im
portant fraternity projects such 
as homecoming displays and bug
gies.
Good Social Facilities
In addition to gaining a new 
home, the Betas have also added 
a house mother, Mrs. McNally, 
who is very well pleased both 
with the fraternity and the new 
house. She feels that the chief 
asset of the new unit lies in its 
functionability.
From the social angle the new 
homes have tremendous possibil
ities. The party rooms are huge 
and the members have already 
made progress toward individual
ity there.
Just before Rush Week, progress 
on the new homes was halted 
for a day due to a strike. The 
union workmen objected to work
ing with non-union brothers. It 
appears that this was the only 
bone of contention, for the work 
being done by the fraternity men 
had not been contracted. Matters 
were quickly settled, however, 
after the Betas and DUs decided 
to do their painting after union 
hours.
Average
[Continued from Page 1] 
consecutive semester with 2.518. 
Every fraternity raised its aver
age except ATO, which dropped 
only .004 from the fall semester.
Delta Gamma is the new soror
ity leader, with 2.95. Sigma Kappa 
made the largest gain, .05, but the 
all sorority average dropped from 
2.84 to 2.79.
Fraternities
Tau Delta Phi ...............2.695
Pi Kappa Alpha .............2.518
Alpha Tau Omega .....2.503
Delta Upsilon ..................2.460
Beta Theta Pi ...............2.425
Beta Sigma Rho ...........2.382
Sigma Alpha Epsilon... 2.240
Theta Xi ..........................2.194
Sigma Nu ........................2.189
Phi Kappa ........................2.167
Kappa Sigma .................2.156
Delta Tau Delta ...........2.115
All Mens Average __.2.377
All Fraternity Average .2.329 
All School Average ....2,449 
Sororities
Delta Gamma ....................2.95
Delta Delta Delta ...........2.81
Kappa Alpha Theta ....2.80 
Kappa Kappa Gamma ..2.79
Chi Omega .......................2.69
Sigma Kappa ....................2.63
Alpha Epsilon Phi ...........2.62
All Sorority Average ....2.79 
All Womens Average ..2.64
Scholarships
Seniors and graduate students 
who want information about Ful
bright, Marshall, or Rhodes 
Scholarships for foreign study or 
who wisM to apply for an award 
should see Professor R. E. Par
shall, AH 154, as soon as possi
ble. There is no restriction as to 
field of study.
The deadline for completed Ful
bright and Marshall applications 
is October 15. Rhodes Scholarship 
applications must be completed 
by November 1.
Interested students should dis
cuss the subject with the depart
ment head of their major field be
fore they confer with Professor 
Parshall.
Debate Club
With the beginning of the fall 
term, the inter-collegiate debating 
season grows near. The Debate 
Club finds its ranks thin this year 
due to graduation and is conduct
ing a campaign for new members. 
The club is looking for any fresh
man or upper-classman who is 
interested in debating. Both men 
and women are welcomed.
Debating offers opportunities 
for self-improvement as well as 
travel and adventure. Interested 
individuals should contact the 
clubs new debate coach, Mr. 
Trainor of the English depart
ment, in Room 332D AH.
Thistle
All seniors, fraternity, and so
rority members who did not sign 
up for their Thistle pictures dur
ing registration may do so at the 
office of the dean of men.
If you ordered a 1956 Thistle 
last year and have not received it 
you may do so at Skibo on Wed
nesday, Thursday, and Friday of 
this week. Books will be distrib
uted irom 11:30 to 1:00 on those 
days. Books which have not been 
claimed by October 13 will be 
sold. 
Technical
The Carnegie Technical will 
have its first staff meeting on Fri
day, September 28, at 7 p.m. in 
the Carnegie Union for all inter
ested freshmen and recent staff 
members.
The October issue of the Tech
nical will go on sale this Wed
nesday in Skibo and Administra
tion Hall.
Tartan
Anyone wishing to have a no
tice in the Tartan should post it
on the Tartan bulletin board in 
Skibo no later than 4:00 p.m. Fri
day or in the Tartan office, third 
floor Carnegie Union, no later 
than 7:30 p.m. Friday.
There will be a meeting at 7:00, 
Friday, September 28, in the 
Union for all those who wish to 
join the Tartan reporting staff. 
People who wish to work in other 
areas on the Tartan should come 
to the office after 7:30 Friday eve
ning.
Scotch 'n Soda
Scotch n Soda invites all per
sons who are interested in writing 
dialogue, writing lyrics, or com
posing for this years show to a 
meeting at 1:30, Sunday, Septem
ber 30, in the Dorm Council Room 
in Morewood Gardens.
International Club
The old foreign students are 
greatly interested in meeting the 
newcomers and to get the Inter
national Club rolling. Consequent
ly, they are calling an organiza
tion meeting in Carnegie Union on 
Friday, September 28, right after 
classes at 4:30 p.m. No refresh
ments will be served, and the 
meeting will adjourn well before 
5:30.
The number of peovle attend
ing will constitute the vote of 
confidence on whether or not Tech 
International Club will continue 
to exist. Americans are most 
welcome now as always.
Freshman Camp Is Constructive 
Innovation In Orientation Week
The class of 1960 will be able to lay claim to a very significant 
first in the history of Carnegie Tech-Freshman Camp.
The Freshman Camp was planned for ail interested freshmen so 
that they might become well acquainted with one another, the upper
classmen, faculty and administra-* 
tion, and the Tech traditions. Re
sponsible for initiatinf the idea 
and organizing and running the 
camp were the YWCA and YMCA, 
with the full cooperation of the 
school, which sponsored the 
camp.
The one hundred and thirtyeight freshmen who took advan
tage of the opportunity were guid
ed at the camp by nineteen upperclass men and women. Mem
bers of the faculty and admini
stration acted as advisors. Co-di
rectors of the camp were Dee 
Beede Anson, home economics 
57 and Tom Allan, Civil Engi
neering 58. Mr. Strick and Miss 
Ruth Shinn were administrative 
advisors.
Informal Meeting Ground
The keynote of the camp was 
service. Second only was the in
formality which prevailed in dis
cussions, in the dining hall, in the 
cabins, and in dress. Campfires 
and recreation areas were often 
the site of informal group dis
cussions about fraternities and
sororities, the Carnegie Plan, 
campus dress, and expenses.
More formal lectures and panel 
discussions covered such topics as 
getting an education through ac- I 
tivities, getting an education 
where you live, and getting an 
education in the classroom.
Spirit Booster
From the enthusiastic attitude 
of the new freshman class it has 
been concluded that the camp in
spired a genuine respect for and 
interest in the traditions of the 
school.
The faculty advisory staff in- ' 
eluded Dr. Clarence C. Browne, j 
Dr. Ed Hollander, Miss Carolyn 
Kennedy, Miss Joan Lowe, and 
Dr. Bob Morgan. The student 
counselors were Stu Anson, Mike 
Ban, Gary Benton, Tim Day, i 
Marian Doepkin, Dave Dull. John 
Hallgren, Sonny Hammers, Linda 
Immel, Mary Lou Lauten, Lou j 
Perreta, Eli Rothman, Jon Saxe, ' 
Bob and Peggy Shields, Don Tel- , 
lalian, Mary Ellen Timmons, and i 
Sara Jane Trout.
Orientation Week 
Ends A Success
More than 800 Tech freshmen 
j have just completed the hectic 
| week of orientation. During the 
| week of September 12-19, the new 
i freshmen attended receptions, dis
cussion group meetings, and par
ties.
On Wednesday afternoon the 
new students aind their parents 
met the deans and department 
heads of the school. That night 
the freshmen attended the Presi
dents Reception in the Fine Arts 
lobby. After meeting President 
Warner, they watched a perform
ance put on by members of the 
1956 Scotch and Soda cast in the 
Little Theater. Among the skits 
taken from last years show were 
Yellow Stamps, Men of Dis
tinction, and Its All In The 
Family. There was also a dance 
in the Exhibition Hall.
The mornings of the next thre^ 
days were taken up by placement 
tests where the blurry-eyeci 
freshmen were confronted b> 
strange questions of temperament 
tests and aptitude tests. An Activi
ties Fair held in the Union filled 
Thursday afternoon.
Because of rainy weather on 
Saturday, the freshmen picnic was 
held in the Recreation Room of 
Morewood Gardens. Those fresh
men who did not wear their dinks 
provided entertainment which in
cluded singing a few Tech songs 
and cheer leading.
The freshmen had their first ex
perience in the long lines of re
gistration Monday, but were free 
on Tuesday to enjoy the band 
concert held in front of the lfine 
Arts building at 12:30. That eve
ning Orientation Week came to 
a gala ending with fraternity 
pafties.
Commuters
Petitions for commuter Stu
dent Congress representatives 
are now available in the Dean 
of Students' office 150 A.H. In 
order to be valid petitions 
must have 100 unduplicated 
commuter signatures and be 
returned to the Deans office 
by 4:30 p.m., Monday, October 
:B ea commuter may sign 
more than one petition.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 1956
Editorial
... Of The People
New seems to be the keyword on the 
campus this fall. We have new people in the 
administration, a new fraternity duplex, new 
sorority rush rules, and a new orientation 
program including a freshman camp for our 
new freshmen. But most important to the 
student body right now is our new constitu
tion which provides for a new student coun
cil (see page one).
At the moment there is no student gov
erning body at Tech. According to the 
authors of the constitution, this situation isnt 
much worse than that which existed in the 
past few years, when Student Council was 
a small, unsupported and ineffective organi
zation. The void will soon be filled with what 
is hoped to be a powerful and effective or
ganization which will be truly representa
tive and have the full support of the student 
body.
Student Council will be composed of 
three branches; the Executive Council con
sisting of the presidents of major organiza
tions as the Dorm Councils, CFP, and Panhel; a judicial branch of seven appointed 
members one of whom will act as chief jus
tice; and the Student Congress.
Of course Student Council cannot be fully representa
tive unless responsible and interested students run for Con
gress and are elected by a large majority of the group they 
represent. The commuters have to get one hundred undupli
cated signatures to be automatically on Congress (page one), 
and one dorm or department representative will be elected 
for every hundred students in those areas. In order to run 
from a dorm or academic department, students may give 
their names to their dorm president or department head. 
Those who feel there are others more qualified than they 
will have an opportunity to nominate students at the group 
elections Tuesday, October 2.
Naturally there will be competition for the openings in 
Congress, but this is insurance to the man-on-the-cut that 
the most responsible people will be elected to represent him. 
From within the Student Congress, chairmen of the perma
nent standing committees will be appointed and the chair
man of Congress will be elected. The only way the students 
can be sure of having efficient and interested leaders hand
ling such important affairs as the new Student Union, ac
tivities regulations, and finance is to elect representatives 
they feel will be fully capable of such duties.
The new Student Council hasnt the strength of age 
and tradition, but, being free of past mistakes and weighty 
accumulated red tape, it can begin cleanly with its fresh 
and potentially powerful duties. Like any democratic govern
ment, most of its strength lies in the support of the people 
it represents.
S.A.M.
Full Representation for Every Student
Union TV
Contrary to popular opinion, the new TV set recently in
stalled in the Carnegie Union didnt just happen.
According to Dr. Henry K. Kirkpatrick, associate pro
fessor of English, the cost was met by the faculty and the
administration with each paying 50 percent. 
The set is intended to supplement the limit
ed television facilities for Tech students, and 
partially, at least, disproves the theory that 
all faculty members are dead set against TV.
Both administration and faculty deserve 
a note of thanks for thoughtfulness above 
and beyond the call of duty, and the Tartan 
would like to be the first to extend its ap
preciation.
Letters
Orientation Week
Editor, the TARTAN:
We freshmen have a few words about our first 
impression at Tech.
Freshman Week, Orientation Week, Rush Week. 
. . . They all mean the same thing; the beginning 
of a new life for the youngest addition at Tech 
the freshmen.
Without this wonderful week, the average fresh
men would walk into college life unprepared. Dur
ing Freshman Week, we have a chance to meet our 
classmates, choose our friends, and learn the cus
toms followed here at Tech.
Because of the continual activity in which we, 
the freshmen, participate during this all-important 
week, we have little time for minor worries and 
problems. Homesickness and thoughts for the boy 
or girl we left behind are temporarily forgotten. 
We are deeply grateful for the helpfulness and
Off To A Good Start
The YWCA and YMCA deserve much 
credit for the splendid start they have given 
the class of 1960. In past years the orienta
tion week has left something to be desired; 
even when the sophomore honoraries con
ducted a well-organized program, upperclass 
subversion undid a lot of their good work in 
training the freshmen.
However, the Y and Administration spon
sored Freshman Camp seems to have laid 
such a firm foundation with those freshmen 
who were fortunate enough to attend that 
their propaganda in turn has nullified most 
of the effect of upperclass derisionof which 
there seems to be less this year than in the 
past. From the reports of the camp alumni,\ 
Freshman camp will become an important 
tradition on Techs campus.. Certainly the 
Y and the administration intend to continue 
sponsoring it, and this years freshmen are 
well trained to be counselors for the next 
three years.
All the credit for the enthusiasm does not 
go entirely to the Y and the administration. 
The freshman class itself seems to have a lot"-, 
of its own enthusiasm and esprit de corps. 
This may be in part due to the fact that 
Tech had the largest number of applicants 
to select from in its historyabout a thou
sand more than last year. Also the Cwens 
and Scimitars have provided good leadership 
for the freshmen. The cooperation they have 
been getting from both the upperclassmen 
and the freshmen has made their job thaW 
much easier. Judging from orientation week 
and the first few days of school, we think this 
may be one of the liveliest and best years 
Tech will see in a decade.
In 1936 Tech students paid a $15 activities fee, 
$3.75 of which went to Student Council and $11.25 
to the Athletic Association.
The student price for the Tarian was five cents 
a copy, which was included in the activities fee.
graciousness shown by the upper-classmen during 
out first getting adjusted days.
In this first week, a very important event takes 
place called the Activities Fair. This is proba
bly the most important factor in our orientation 
program. Through this fair, we learn that college 
life must be well-rounded. It also gives us a chance 
to join any of the numerous activities on campus.
We were very impressed by the friendliness of 
the Cwens and Scimitars. We have high hopes of 
someday belonging to these important clubs.
Now that the partying and rushing of Orien
tation Week is over and the work has begun, we 
wish our classmates and friends the best of luck 
and a glorious year at CIT.
Toni Powell and Sally Stern, 
Freshmen.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office phone. 
MU 2-4557; Managing Editor. MU 2-8899; Executive Editor, MU 2-9846; Advertis
ing Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
;nd examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Managing Editor ............................................ ............ ....................... .......... Stephanie Mackay
Exeeative Editor .................................................................. ...................... Robert Russell
Associate Editor ............................................................. .......... ............. ............. Marjo King
Associate Editor .......................................................................... .................  Richard Fox
BaiinrM Manager ...................................................................................... Martin Ostroff
New* EditorAnn Forest. Sports EditorRobert Hoppe, Copy EditorEdwin 
Rogers, Assistant Business ManagerRobert Sorkin. Advertising ManagerRobert 
Peters. Circulation ManagerHarley Bembach. SecretaryJoan Seidel.
ReportersEvelyn Alessio, Bob Jack, Sally Day, Lynn Porter Carman, Betsy 
Kuhn. En Harriet Chang, Pat Mitchell. Lois Griffin, Barbara Hoenstine, Joan Copi.ch, Anna Hatzield, Susie Stryker, Grayce McAllister, Fay Fisher, Carol Sooby, 
Nancie Redpath. Gene Anderson, A1 Federawicz, Arthur Marion, Lu Fields, Beth 
Lk.cn. Feature StaffLuis de la Mac9rra, Marshall Pihl. Sports StallDick 
Swanev. Don McClelland, Tom Beig. Fred Heider. PhotographersJohn Philbrick, 
Joi n Alexander. Art 8taDave Stea. Copy StaffBill Mowry, Ed Holstein, 
Ja< k Walker. Cirealation StaffIra Levine. Jerry Kreuzer. Advertising StaffHer
bert Kreindler, Alan Hodel, Myron Wagmeister, A1 Goldstein.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa , under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special 
r>f po- taee provided for in the act of February 28. 1925.
Me viber of the Associated Collegiate Press.F,tve ented for national advertising by Natinal Advertising, Inc.
PITTSBURGH 
Symphony Orchestra
WILLIAM STEINBERG, Musical Director and Conductor
30"V.
Season Opens Oct. 12 and 14
FRIDAY Evenings and SUNDAY Afternoons at SYRIA MOSQUE
Special Student Rates
20 Concerts $^.00
Afternoon Series /
20 Concerts
Evening Series$Q.oo
Tickets: Mrs. King in the Registrar's Office
__________________________ 9 to 3:30 ----- -...............

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 25, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
By Stan Zionts
Maintaining a record set in the last two years will be quite a 
job for Dr. Eddie Baker. The somewhat-depleted Tartan squad will 
have its hands full trying to go undefeated this season. Graduation 
and failures have taken their toll.
'however, all is not lost. A large* 
number of freshmen have gone 
out for the squad. The first two 
practice games proved victorious 
for the Scots. They downed Slip
pery Rock 13-0 in the first. The 
second game was won 20-6 over 
Grove City last Friday. The real 
test will be this Saturday when 
the Tartans journey to Buffalo to 
play the University of Buffalo.
T^is is the first contest between 
tM? two teams since 1946 when 
Buffalo won 28-0. Tech will be 
out to avenge tthis loss. The ser
ies stand 3-1 favor Carnegie.
The teams top men seem very 
good. At end, both starters from 
last year are back. Ken Ficery, a 
6'2", 185 lb. speedster is starting 
his third year as a regular. The 
former star at Wilmerding H. S. 
is a junior printing management 
s*</jdent. He is an excellent re
ceiver and a brilliant defenseman.
Dave Love, who played as a fresh
man last year, is a 6', 190 lb. me
chanical engineering major from 
Mt. Lebanon. He is greatly im
proved as a result of last years 
experience. Another returnee is 
Larry Cassett, a junior electrical 
engineering student, who should 
see a lot of action this season.
Tackles: Despite graduation 
M^es the tackles appear to be in 
good shape. Leading candidate is 
sophomore Earl Benner who was 
a regular last year as a freshman.
The big and rugged Earl, from 
Swissvale, should be a top lineman 
this year. Junior Bruce Ramsey, a 
6'2", 200 pounder, looks like the 
best bets for the tackle positions 
but should get some real competi
tion from sophomores Dick Chalupa and Bob Hemmer.
 Guards: This slot was the hard
est with the graduation of fouryears regular, returns and should 
fill this spot easily. The former 
Clairton High School star is fast 
and shifty and likes to run with 
the ball.
Fullback: The graduation of 
hard driving Marshall Brown will 
hurt. Fortunately, Jesse Quatse 
returns this year after a years 
absence.
Halfbacks: Tom Briner, regular 
left half from last year, returns 
to lead the Tartan attack. Two 
other fine halfbacks are on the 
squad this year. They are sopho
more Walt Majeski, former Oli
ver High School student, and Curvin Jeep Myers.
This year, according to Dr. 
Baker, we will be using a number 
of 60-minute men. The new men 
on the squad especially the fresh
men, will be trained for reserve 
positions. All in all, the Tartan 
squad should have a pretty fair 
season this year.
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST 
For Games on September 29, 1956
Action in scrimmage with 
Grove City.
year veteran Ed Karcher. Top 
candidates for the positions are A1 
Tagliavini, a speedy, agile junior 
from Duquesne and Tony Capul.
Centers: John Kohan, last years 
regular wrill not be returning be
cause of -injury. Top man for the 
position is Jim Temmel, a junior 
mechanical engineering student 
who hails from Mt. Lebanon. 
Quarterbacks: John Tucci, last
Carman Expects 
Successful Cross 
Country Season
By Tom Bieg
Carnegie Techs cross country 
k4uad opens its five week, eight 
meet season this Saturday against 
the Jeannette Harriers at home; 
and then journeys to Geneva on 
October 5.
Coach Bob Carman is optimistic 
about this year's team, since many 
lettermen are returning. Last 
years successful squad completed 
a 7-1 won and lost record. Larry 
Bryant, frequent winner last 
year, hopes to repeat as number 
f>ne man. Arnie Olds, who returnecl from the Army, was cross 
country captain three years ago 
and should be tough. Sophomore 
Eric Ottervick has shown great 
improvement, and coach Carman 
expects big things from sopho
more Dick Hamilton, a letterwinner in track last year, Tom 
Harder, and Bill Whitman. There 
are also several promising fresh
man on the squad.
\The Tech thinclads easily beat 
the Harriers, an independent 
track club, last year. They lost 
only one meet, to Geneva College. 
Coach Carman say that if we can 
get past Geneva we should have 
a very successful season.
Bob Carman, Techs coach in 
cross country and track, is also 
student, teacher, and AAU com
petitor. He is taking graduate 
courses in Techs physics depart
ment and teaches part-time at 
ech and Pitt. Besides turning out 
consistent winners as a work, he 
is well known around Pittsburgh 
as a consistent winner and record 
holder in the mile and two mile 
events in A.A.U. meets. Bob will 
be helped by assistants this year. He has added to his staff Bill 
Bryant, a stellar legman last year, 
and Jim Farson, a cross country 
runner from W. and J. who has 
*sed up his four years oi varsity 
Eligibility,
Tech Opponent
Sept. 29Buffalo ...................Away
Oct. 6Johns Hopkins ...Home 
Oct. 13Dickinson .Homecoming
Oct. 20Temple .................Away
Oct. 27W & J......................Home
Nov. 3F & M......................Away
Nov. 9St. Vincent. Home-night
Nov. 17Westminster .........Away
Head Coach: Dr. Edward B. Baker. 
Line Coach: Edward J. Hirshberg. 
Asst. Coaches: A. C. Irwin, Walter
H. Burns, Dr. Jesse A. Quatse. 
Trainer: Walter Q. Willoughby.
Team
Carnegie Tech
Pittsburgh
Princeton
Lafayette
California
Cornell
Dayton
Michigan
Wake Forest
North Carolina
Army
Navy
Georgia Tech 
Yale
Pennsylvania
Score Team
........... Buffalo University
........... Syracuse
........... Rutgers
........... Temple
........... Illinois
........... Colgate
........... Holy Cross
........... UCLA
........... Maryland
........... Oklahoma
........... V M I
........... William and Mary
........... Southern Methodist
........... Connecticut
........... Penn State
Score
NAME ...................................................... DEPT.CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS ....................................................................................
A 1957 Thistle yearbook trill be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTANS weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
days games.
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible xo compete.2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the finpl score
of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; in case
of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight 
Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry is sub
mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
6. Winner of each weeks contest will receive a 1957 Thistle subscription, re
deemable at the time of publication.
*7 *  *JYlore chickenscross the road
in front of Clievroletsthan any other car !
cas Alr ulWEA uaRan 
with cWRy by FishaE.
Well, sure. There are more Chevies on the road. More people buy em year after year. And this year, Chevrolets 
the most popular car againby a margin of more than 150,000 so far. . . . Must be the best one to buy, for sure!
* . m
jptiBSSyi Two million more people own Clievrolets
Only franchised Chevrolet dealers display this famous trademarky CHEVROLET /j
See Your Authorized Chevrolet Dealer
-v* .........  1  1 ----  '   ....  ..........   - . -- -- _____________________________________________________ '1 Tf -  H* PS f> ' 'V* ' .... ..." -.Zf-. . 'Carnegie Football Prospects Uncertain

---------------------------------------------------

WESBORO SHOESSTYLED AND PRICED FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
is the limit on a roster. Phys
ical exams for all participating 
players are required and will 
be given on Thursday, Sep
tember 27 at 4:30. Team man
agers should bring their team 
in a group to the mens gym 
for the physical. Play begins 
September 28.
By Don McClelland
Each year in the fall, Tech men 
take part in a sport laughingly 
called touch football. This sport, 
which occasionally approaches or
ganized mayhem, is due to start 
on September 27. However, the 
planning for it extends into the 
summer. Good freshman prospects 
are spotted by the magic word, 
varsity football/ listed under 
High School activities on their ap
plication forms. Upon their arrival 
at Tech, they are given a strong 
rush by the fraternities for dear 
old I Eta Pi must find men to 
replace the departing seniors.
Last years all-campus and all
league teams have been consider
ably thinned by graduation. The 
champion, Kappa Sigma, must re
place almost their whole first team. 
The Delts, who gave the Kappa 
Sigs a hard time in the final, are 
more fortunate in that their two
all-campus men, Laughery and 
Mihm, are returning along with 
most of last years squad. When 
the season is over in November, 
there will have been surprises and 
disappointments, upsets and sure 
things. However, now the Delts, 
Kappa Sigs, and Phi Kaps look 
like the champions of tomorrow.
in the Wesboro Shoe Wardrobe Contest I 
Priase:
L 2 tickets to the 1957 Rose Bowl game
2 free United Airlines round trip tickets to California 
V $500 expense money
3-suit Worsted-Tex wardrobe 
3-pair Wesboro Shoe wardrobe
Prizes:
Jr 3-sult Worsted-Tex
rHxA wardrobPJ3-pair Wesboro Shoe 
wardrobe
Prises:
$25 U. S. 
Savings Bond
World's easiest contestnothing to buy, guess or solvel 
Just fill out entry blank and mail to:
xoFwB d, Coworn giao da.FMtK, saN :mPZ, dilyMLa, ccc,
Varsity Teams
CITY.All freshmen and upper
classmen who are interested 
in trying out as players or 
managers for the following 
teams: football, cross coun
try, basketball, swimming, 
golf, tennis, and track are re
quested to report to the ath
letic offices, 102 Gymnasium.
YOUR WESBORO SHOE DEAU-tt
skeGg CfcS21304m oNwrM : Kau hlt zlrnw Crlvo Mtp Kaur 
onbara xoM8or-n nlLtMwuro MFFoMrn ioroB
Wesboro Dealer's Signature.Messrs. Boyer, Birdy, and Miley, who will supervise intramural 
sports this year.
Send  many entries as you wish 1 
Contest opens August IS, closes October IS, IMS
HAPPY-JOE-LUCKY presents STICKLERS!Mr. Boyer Joins 
Physical Education 
Staff At Tech
The new face seen around the 
Phys Ed office this fall is that of 
Mr. Boyer, an addition to our ex
panding staff. He is a native of 
Slippery Rock, Pa., where he at
tended Slippery Rock State 
Teachers College, which was also 
Mr. Birdys school. Mr. Boyer was 
active in sports while at school. 
He was on the varsity gymnastic 
team and a member of the YMCA, 
Ex-Vets, and Varsity Clubs. Upon 
graduation, he spent three years 
at the McKeesport YMCA as phy
sical director at the downtown 
Pittsburgh Y. His hobbies in
clude golf, gymnastics, swimming, 
and handball. Mr. Boyer is an in
structor in physical education and 
will also assist Mr. Birdy and Mr. 
Miley in supervising the intra
mural program. During his stay 
in Pittsburgh, he will be working 
on his Masters degree in Educa
tion at Pitt.
horseman?
$Q . Wfcft oH ' your APHYQPUUOjJ
Football Games
(a) Home football games will
be played at Forbes Field. The 
schedule: October 6, Johns
Hopkins, 1:30 p.m.; October 
13, Dickinson (Homecoming), 
2:00 p.m.; October 27, YV c J, 
1:30 p.m.; November 9. St. 
Vincent (Friday night), 8:00 
p.m.
(b) Student entrance will be
through Gates No. 30 and 31, 
located on Bouquet Street
near main entrance.
(c) Admission to games
free, upon presentation of
registration card. Do not al
low your card to be used by 
any person but yourself, as
it may be lifted at the gate.
(d) To facilitate cheering, 
sections reserved for students 
are Nos. 5, 6, and 7.
(e) The visiting teams are
our guests; treat them ac
cordingly at all times.
(f) The Kiltie Band will be 
seated in the front part of 
Section 8.
STICKLERS ARE TICKLERS and a mighty soft way to make money! 
Just write down a simple riddle and a two-word rhyming answer. For 
example: What's a ball player who gets a raise? (Answer: richer 
pitcher.) Note: both words must have the same number of syllables 
bleak freak, jolly dolly, vinery finery. Send your Sticklers, with 
your name, address, college, and class, to Happy-Joe-Lucky, Box 
67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Dont do drawings! Well pay $25 for every 
Stickler we use in our advertisingand for hundreds that never see 
print. And rememberyoure bound to Stickle better when youre 
enjoying a Lucky, because Luckies taste better. Luckies mild, goodtasting tobacco is TOASTED to taste even better. Fact is, youll say 
Luckies are the best-tasting cigarette you ever smoked!
UKJKWs\mtw&to K>nw''
Luckies Taste Better
Basketball
There will be a meeting in 
the gymnasium for freshmen 
basketball players and man
agers Thursday, September 27, 
at 4:39 p.m.. and for varsity 
players and managers Monday, 
October 1, at 4:30. 
to taste 
better!
Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 1956
Delts, Kappa Sigs. Phi Kaps 
This Years Football Favorites
IM Football
Entries are due for IM touch 
football by Wednesday, Sep
tember 26 at 4:30. Fifteen men
Patronize Our Advertisers
Win a

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 25, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
_. f)
iirMi
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ................................................................................................. Emily Muhic
Reporter ............................................................................ John Van Holt, Jr.
Sideline News 
And Views
By John Van Holt, Jr.
^ \ Before getting into the business portion of this column, may I 
extend a most hearty welcome to the evening students who are at
tending the Ivy Halls of CIT for the first time and to those of you 
who are making a repeat performance. It was a welcome sight indeed 
to note the large crowd of students 
'who are intent on furthering their
education by attendance at eve
ning class sessions.
It is hoped that soon many of 
you will make yourself available 
to the extra-curricular student ac
tivities on campus who are definV*ely in need of more new mem
bers with new ideas, and an earn
est desire to serve. These activi
ties consist of Student Council, 
Phi Gamma Pi Sorority, Newman 
Club, Phi Nu, Sigma Delta Phi, 
and Nu Sigma Alpha. Those of 
you with writing ability will be 
most welcome to the understaffed 
Plaid, the newspaper of the eve
ning students. Check your stujnt handbooks in regard to the 
2rson to be contacted should you 
be desirous of serving on any 
of the above mentioned organiza
tions. '
For whom the bell tolls . . .
A hardy breed of once proud 
bachelors is gradually becoming 
extinct due to the often tried, and 
time proved toxin of matrimony.
During the summer school re
cess Newman Club members Bill 
Bond, Joe Morgan, and Ray 
CiSchwalm exchanged the vows 
with their intended. So long, boys, 
its been good to know you. 
Sharps, flats, and pastels . . .
To those of you who were for
tunate and far-sighted enough to 
plan on attending the series of 
concerts i id lectures presented 
during the month of July by Fine 
Arts, the news contained forth
with is probably old news. For 
the benefit of those of you who 
Wre not in attendance, a brief 
summary of what transpired 
would definitely be in order. The 
opening series, staged in the audi
torium of the graduate school of 
industrial administration was a 
presentation of a chamber music 
recital with faculty members Ber
nard Goldberg, flutist, and Asso
ciate Professor Nelson Whitaker, 
pianist, rendering splendid per
formances.(s The other portion of the pro
gram was a presentation of a dis
cussion of Distinction in the 
Arts, and was capably handled 
by Dean Rice, Professor Gladys 
Schmidt, and Associate Professors 
Clark Winter and Roland Leich.
A choral ensemble program and 
a group of films on ballet dancing 
closed out a wonderfully accept
ed and ably performed program 
of fine arts.
Nuclear News . . .
Two research grants were re
cently awarded to CIT scientists 
by the Atomic Energy Commis
sion. One award of $18,881 will 
be used to support fundamental 
research on early stages of sin
tering, and is being conducted by 
Dr. F. M. Rhines. The other award 
of $16,032 will be used to continue 
studies on rare earth minerals 
and will be conducted by Dr. C. 
L. McCabe.
Thats the trouble with Harry . . .
Handbook editor Harry Thorn, 
a sophomore mechanical engineer
ing student is a somewhat quiet 
and retiring person who doesnt 
believe in the old adage of 
Sounding your own horn if you 
hope to be recognized. Harry, with 
a modest factor of 3.33 had every right to sound-off but con
tinued to remain silent until cor
nered by this reporter. It was dis
closed, rather reluctantly, that 
Harry was the proud recipient of 
the Thomas S. Baker Scholarship, 
and a more deserving person does 
not come easily to mind. Congrat
ulations Harry and the very best 
of luck.
Something for the boys . . .
The lack of girls has been a 
topic of discussion among many 
of the male evening students. Well 
fellows, I think that the famine 
is just about over if the two-night 
class registration periods can be 
used as a sign of good things to
come. If there are any interested 
parties, and I know that covers 
about 99% of the male students, 
the code is C-501 as many of the 
girls seemed to list this subject on 
their class cards. A bit of research 
in the Evening School Bulletin 
reveals this to be a course in in
troductory psychology. If you 
dont need the course, take it any 
[Continued on Page 8]
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
STUDENTS!
SEE PAGE 2
For Special 
Discounts on
'Lust For Life"
New Handbook 
Has Been Printed 
^or ES Students
Through the combined efforts 
and cooperation of Dean Cleeton, 
Dalziel McKelway, and Harry 
Thorn, handbook editor, a new 
handbook has been made possible 
for evening students.
It is hoped that students will 
find the new handbook more con
venient to carry with them at 
rll times for reference purposes. 
Vhe larger size should provide 
better readability. The material 
contained in the handbook has 
not been greatly changed or re
written. Future changes will be 
made as warranted. Council wel
comes any suggestions you may 
have for improvement of the 
hand book. Harry Thorn is to be 
commended for his thorough and 
prompt attention to all necessary 
Retails to provide the improved 
t3%ooklet.
Test Lab Upstairs
Even in aviations earliest years, it was axiomatic that proof 
must come in the air. Out of this, the flying test bed was born 
... and slowly grew to its present-day stature as an indispen
sable engineering tool? implemented by an extensive variety 
of engineering skills.
The problems of observing and recording an engines per
formance in the air are legion. Most recently, a Boeing B-50 
and a North American B-45 were readied as test beds for 
Pratt & Whitney Aircrafts J-57 and J-75 turbo jets. The 
experimental power plant, contained in a retractable pod in 
the bomb bay, can be flown to locations where atmospheric 
conditions permit most efficient testing..The prototype is 
then extended into the air stream for actual flight work with 
the regular engines idled, and the job of observing and 
recording in-flight performance begins.
From the first shakedown flight to the test engines even
tual acceptance, invaluable information is gathered. Perhaps 
the most vital contribution made by P & W As flying test-bed 
program is the great reduction in time between initial devel
opment and quantity production of engines. Important, too, 
is the quality and diversity of engineering talent involved in 
such a program, for it spells out remarkable opportunity for 
todays engineering student.
After exhaustive testing in the highly advanced 
facilities of Willgoos Laboratory, the mighty P & W A J-75 is run in ground test prior to test
bed flight. The four-engined B-45 bomber 
(above) allowed test flight at high speeds 
and altitudes early in the J-75s development.
World's foremost designer and builder of aircraft engines
PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre gCARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 1956
-UJ POVYJ3S s
Sideline
[Continued from Page 7] 
how. You may not like the sub
ject, but youll meet so many in
teresting class mates.
More faculty honors . . .
Dr. Harold Guetzkow, a profes
sor of the graduate school of industrial administration, was 
awarded a post-doctoral fellow
ship by the Center for Advanced 
Study in the Behavioral Sciences 
in California. An executive con
sultant, Dr. Guetzkows fellowship 
will be used to studying the use 
of decision-making conferences as 
an administrative staff aide.
Also in line for the plaudits of 
students and faculty alike is Dr. 
Robert Mehl, head of the Metal
lurgical Engineering Institute, who 
was awarded the Grand Medal de 
LeChatalfer by the French So
ciety of Metallurgy.
A director of the metal research 
laboratory, Dr. Mehl received the 
medal for distinguished service in 
the metallurgical engineei'ing re
search field.
News on industry . . .
Although placements approach
ed the 100% mark in the past 
year, the CIT bureau of place
ments expects an even greater 
surge in 1957 in order to satisfy 
company demands. Charles E. 
Wangeman, director of the bu
reau reports that jobs have been 
accepted in firms throughout the 
nation by approximately 95% of 
the 1956 graduates from the 
school of printing management, 
graduate school of industrial ad- J 
ministration, and the College of 
Engineering and Science. It would 
appear from the present and im
mediate outlook that Tech grads 
will be again in heavy demand to 
fill vacancies created by the up
surge in the technical fields of en
deavor.
Approximately 700 companies 
contacted the placement bureau 
for aid in recruiting personnel 
and approximately 60% of those 
companies sent representatives on 
campus to interview prospects. A 
total of 544 representatives of 
all types of commercial and in
dustrial companies conducted 4,- 
535 interviews and by commence
ment time 315 out of 331 bachelor 
of science candidates had job
placements, while the remainder 
chose to defer their decisions to 
a later date. All in all the future 
continues to look bright.
Library addition . . .
A new addition, the building 
materials library, has been pre
sented to CITs department of 
architecture by the Producers 
Council, a national organization 
of building products manufactur
ers.
Consisting of a product sample 
case and a technical reference 
file that is integrated, classified, 
and displayed in one unit, it will 
enable students to compare the 
latest trends in building materials, 
furnishings, and equipment, and 
will integrated the students de
signs with products actually on 
the market.
Development of this project 
should be credited to Raymond A. 
Fisher, acting head of architecCommuters
[Continued from Page I] 
for a whilebut when all the dust 
finally settled there remained 
nothing but an even unhealthier 
student apathy regarding SC.
Abolition Movement 
The powers of Student Council 
lay dormant and there were ac
tually times when not enough 
students bothered to collect peti
tion signatures to fill the empty 
posts on Council, much less hold 
an election. In 1951, a petition 
was signed by 50 students to 
abolish SC. At the same time SC
ture; Professor Robert Burdett, 
and Paul W. Sylvester, a member 
of the Producers Council (Pitts
burgh Chapter), sponsor of the 
project.
umilimi
CAMERAS
ARTISTS SUPPLIES
24-48 Hr. Developing
FRAMING - RENTALS
REPAIRS - TRADE-INS
The FOTOSHOP
SQUIRREL HILL
5854 Forbes St. HA 1-6883
Evening Until 9 P.M. On Tues. & Thurs.
Campus Cleaners
/Mate
WINSTON is the word - for flavor i
WELCOME FRESHMEN!
TO
Woodlawn Pharmacy
Corner Margaret Morrison and Forbes
SPECIAL!!!
Three Free Carnegie Tech 
Book Covers To Every Student!
All Work Done On Our Premises
IT IS NEVER 
TOO LATE . . ,
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
which has the virtue of a fair 
representation without the bitter
ness of the former political
wrangles.
Balloting
Elections for Student Con
gress representatives from the 
academic departments will 1 
held on Tuesday, October t 
at 4:30 p.m. Watch for posters 
designating meeting place for 
each department.
R. J. BEY NOLO* 
TOBACCO CO., 
WINSTON-SAieM. H. .
was bogged down with a set of 
rules in the Constitution design
ed not for efficiency of action, 
but the curbing of over-enthusi
astic factions wishing to gain con
trol. The student body was defi
nitely not overenthusiastic.
The new SC plan promises a 
fair representation of those com
muters who do not belong to any 
social organization but who still 
have a concern over campus mat
ters. This plan is a non-political 
move towards a better, more rep
resentative student government
Switch to WINSTON Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!
 No lecture here  just a promise of the 
full, rich tobacco flavor college smokers 
want! Try Americas favorite filter smoke. 
Youll like the taste. And youll like the
filter  a filter that does the job so 
the flavor really comes through to you. Try 
Winston for finer filter smoking. Winston 
tastes good  like a cigarette should!
35813595813535818135819595959595813535959581358195958135
