Tech Defeats Thiel. 14-6
f^ CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 52NUMBER 4 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1958
Twin TDs In Last 
Period Thrill Fans
By George Paris
- Techs gridiron Tartans came from behind in the last 
quarter to defeat a stubborn Theil team 14 to 6. It was the 
second straight game the Bakermen won with a last minute 
scoring spurt, as they scored 19 points in the last quarter to 
defeat Bucknell last week 19 to 13.
The Tartans did not play hard football in Saturdays 
game until they got behind and then pushed Theil all over 
the field. The team seemed too over-confident but did come 
through in the clutch when necessary.
^ Strong Defense
The first half found both teams playing strong defensive 
games with neither team getting closer than the opponents 
20 yard line.
Tech had their best chance when they took the opening 
kickoff and marched downfield to the Theil 20 where end 
Martin Poad fumbled after making a nice catch of a Muth 
pass. Theil recovered and immediately quick-kicked to get 
out of trouble.
Techs offense couldnt get moving and Their game was 
i^rred by several fumbles. Halfbacks Walt Majeski and John 
Zinni picked up good yardage through the Theil line but the 
Tartans couldnt get the yardage when they needed it. The 
score at halftime was 0-0.
f continued on page 5]
M. J. Stevens Chosen 
Student Congress Yeep
On Oct. 8, Student Congress elected Mary Jane Stevens, 
senior home economics student as its new vice-president. This 
election was necessitated by the resignation of Cissie Raf
ferty Bonini following her recent marriage.
Among the other points of busi-#-----------------------------------------------------
ness at this meeting were the com
mittee reports. Nancy Tull, chairn^n of the library committee, exiMined that one of the major goals 
of her group was to act as a 
board of gripes for both the 
student body and the library. They 
hope to be able to ease some of the 
problems that have been prevalent 
in the past.
Activties Committee
Becky Conrad invited anyone 
interested to come to the activities 
committees meetings which are 
tooted to reviewing the policies 
on activity points. Heads of activ
ities are particularly invited.
Inside
Banbury Cross ...page 4^ 
Bulletin Board . .. .page 2 <? 
Cartoon "Lunik" ..page 4 
oed of the Week .page 3 
Cultural Column . .page 3 
Editorials ....... .pags 4 <?
Intramural News .page 5 
Readers Write ... .pags 4 
Sports ................page 5 [
The finance committee report 
was made by chairman Harvey 
Sharp. He spoke about this years 
budget and emphasized that or
ganizations which receive money 
from Congress must have their 
years budget in as soon as pos
sible.
Homecoming Committee
Sally Lindsay of the Homecom
ing committee gave further de
tails on the forthcoming festivities. 
She mentioned about the fratern
ity displays. Varsity Varieties, new 
Homecoming programs, and 
Harpo buttons.
The elections committee is con
sidering a new system for con
gress elections which was describ
ed by Joe Matis, chairman. Noth
ing, however, has definitely been 
decided upon.
Dick Brand and the public re
lations committee have set up 
some goals for the year. They hope 
to publicize Congress more widely 
within the student body while 
keeping it prominent in the mind 
of each student, help with commitmittee publicity, and keep Con
gress members conscientious in 
their job.
Business
Besides the election for vicepresident on the agenda for old 
business also included the approv
al of this years Congress comicontinued, on page 7]
Juniors
Delta Skull will be making 
a fall call this year. Any male 
junior in the upper third of 
his class, who has not re
ceived notice, may apply for 
membership by submitting a 
letter including a list of his 
activities to Delta Skull, care 
of Bill Oldham, D. U. Box 
150. The deadline for applica
tions is Friday, October 17.
De Benebetti
Next Speaker
By Georgia White
Dr. Sergio De Benedetti, a dis
tinguished physicist and member 
of Techs faculty, will continue 
the All-Tech assembly program 
next Tuesday with the topic Sci
entific and Humanistic Frontiers 
of a Research Man. His lecture 
which will be delivered at 11:30 
in Fine Arts will be the second 
feature in the series Frontiers of 
Research.
Highlights of Dr. De Benedettis 
career include becoming a Re
search Fellow at the Curie Labo
ratory in Paris and having a series 
of positions with the Bartol Re
search Foundation, Kenyon Col
lege, Washington University, and 
the now famous Manhattan Pi'oject at Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
In 1943 he was honored by be
ing selected for an expedition to 
study cosmic rays in Eritrea, East 
Africa, and was a Fulbright Fel
lowship winner in 1956-57.
Fridays Pep Rally 
Disa ppoints T artan 
Cheering Squad
A lack of school spirit and in
terest was exemplified last Friday 
evening at the pep rally. The Kil
tie Band, the cheerleaders and a 
handful of devotees met on Morewood Place and paraded up Forbes 
Street to the cold and empty Tech 
bowl. Since so few rallied there 
was little purpose to the meeting 
and the few faithful dispersed 
with a few minutes.
The Tech team deserved more 
than this! They had won the first 
two games and were trying for a 
third consecutive win over Theil 
on Saturday afternoon, which they 
won.
The purpose of a pep rally is for 
the student body to show the team 
its interest and enthusiasm. The 
Tech team certainly wants this 
attention.
The next pep rally will be the 
evening of the W. & J. game  
October 24.
Wednesday Tartan
In order to increase the effici
ency of the Tartan publication 
operation, the Tartan will be 
published on Wednesday morn
ings rather titan Tuesday after
noons, effective with the next 
issue. All deadlines and sched
ules will remain unchanged.
Political Scene
New Political Groups 
Formed On Campus
Young Republicans 
Talk Witli Nixon
Fourteen students met and 
spoke with Vice-President Richard 
Nixon, key-note speaker at a Re
publican rally, last Friday after
noon at the Syria Mosque.
The students in the group were 
the newly-formed CIT Young Re
publicans Club. Carrying banners 
which proclaimed them as Car
negie Tech Young Republicans 
and pledged their supjart to can
didates Hugh Scott and Arthur 
McGonigle, they attracted the at
tention of the dignitaries present. 
After the rally, John Berg, spoke 
with McGonigle, who expressed 
his wish to help the new organi
zation.
[continued on page 71
Sororities Gain 
23 Pledges
Two weeks of upperclass rush 
ended last Wednesday with the 
pledging of twenty-three girls to 
the seven campus sororities. The 
names of the women pledged fol
low.
Alpha Epsilon Phi: Judy Kauf
man, Ellen Sable, Rhoda Shearer,
Chi Omega: Peg Ford, Jean
Hughes, Linda Gibson, Roni 
Nephew, Ellen Trevolta, Ginni 
Voltz.
Delta Delta Delta: Janice Bergher, Pat Miller.
Delta Gamma: Judith Dunlap, 
Nancy Evans, Lynn Heagerty.
Kappa Alpha Theta: Dorothy 
Aklin, Dolores Bicker, Eleanor 
Micencko.
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Anne
Kinchloe, Pat Ruppen.
Sigma Kappa: Sue Higgins,
Kathy Murphy, Mary Poehlmann, 
Barbara Roche.
Queen Candidates 
To Visit Frats; 
Election Thursday
The eight candidates for Home
coming queen will be presented 
to the fraternities tomorrow eve
ning, October 15, and on Thurs
day, October 16, the voting for 
the queen and her court of two 
will be held from 11:30 to 1:30 
in Skibo and on the Cut.
The candidates were introduced 
last Saturday night at the Varsity 
C Club Dance where they were 
interviewed by Jimmy Frazier, 
member of the Student Congress 
Homecoming Committee.
The schedule for introduction at 
the fraternities tomorrow eve
ning is as follows: KS, 7:30; BSR 
7:50; SN8:05; PK3:20; TDP 
8:35; DTD8:50; BTP9:10; DU 
9:25; TX9:40; ATO9:55; SAE 
10:10; PKA10:25.
Young Democrats 
Receiving Charter
A new political organization, the 
Young Democrats, has recently 
been started at Tech. Since there 
have been no such political groups 
on campus for the past couple 
years, it was decided that some 
organization was needed to further 
the political interests of the stu
dent body.
The officers of the CIT Young 
Democrats are: Bill Pence, Presi
dent; Don Nelson, vice-president; 
Ken Humphreys, secretary; John 
Crecine, treasurer; and John Hood, 
delegate to the Young Democrats 
of Allegheny County. Doctors Roy 
Curry and Edwin Fenton of the 
CIT History department are servl continued on page 7}
Charles Bell Jazz 
Quartet Opening 
At Carnegie Hall
A series of concerts will be pre
sented by the Charles Bell Con
temporary Jazz Quartet Saturday, 
October 18, at the Carnegie Lec
ture Hall.
The members of the group are: 
Charles Bell, arranger and com
poser of the group, a graduate of 
Techs music school; Chuck Le
roy, a Duquesne major who has 
recorded with Joe Negri; Dick 
Hiller, a Tech senior who played 
with Les Elgars band; and Cecil
Charles Bell
Composer-arranger of 
new Jazz group.
Brooks, presently playing with 
the Bobby Jones Trio.
New Group 
Since forming early this spring, 
the quartet has played a series 
of TV shows on Channel 13, Pitts
burgh. An outdoor concert at 
Oglesby Park, Wheeling, W. Va.. 
They have been asked to do more 
TV shows, beginning in December, 
and another concert in Wheeling.
According to the group, they 
plan to concentrate solely on good 
jazz, including the works of other 
jazz musicians and new treatments 
of jazz standards.

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 14, 1958
CoeJ Of OL WeekFirst Drama 
Dept. Play
Beginning on October 22, the 
drama department will present 
The Crucible, its first of six 
productions scheduled for the year 
in the Little Theater.
Students of Carnegie Tech are 
welcome and may receive tickets 
in room 100 of the Fine Arts 
Building today, October 14th from 
4 to 5 p.m. There is no admission 
fee. Patrons of the department are 
also extended invitations.
Charles Therner Moore, a di
rector on the faculty, is the pro
ducer of this work of Arthur Mil
ler. Mr. Miller also wrote Death 
of a Salesman, a successful 
Broadway play.
The Crucible is scheduled for 
the following evenings. October 
22-25, 27-30 and November 3rd, 
with a matinee presented on Oc 
tober 30.
The production will be staked 
in Carnegies Theater of Fine Arts 
in the Fine Arts Building. All per
formances begin at 8:15 p.m.
Jackie Thurston
Sophomore Painting and Design Major
Tartan Coed Contest
Enter the Tartan Coed of the week contest. See a picture 
of your favorite girl in the Tartan and receive a free eight 
inch by ten inch glossy print of the picture used. Each entry 
should be made only with the girls permission and should 
be accompanied by a snapshot if possible. To enter, simply 
fill in the entry blank below and put it in the interschool mail 
addressed to the Tartan.
J Entry Blank j
Coed of the Week Contest 
'Name ............................................................................................................ ,
J Address ....................................................................................................... j
Phone ......................................................................................................... J
Submitted by ........................................................................................... j
!
283 Freshmen 
Pledge School's 
12 Fraternities
By Phil James
To date 283 or 42% of all fresh
men in day school have given 
their pledge to one of the twelve 
campus fraternities. Of the 204 
men who attended Freshman 
Camp, which amounts to approx
imately 33% of the men in the 
freshmen class, 59% of the camp 
students have pledged.
Two explanations account for 
these figures. First Freshman 
Camp tends to draw the out of 
town students, who are in general 
the Techites most interested in 
the advantages of the fraternity 
system.
Second, the students attending 
the camp are usually the ones 
most interested in extra activities; 
this is verified because most other 
student activities report a similar 
distribution in freshman partici
pation.
Varsity C 
Club Danee
The Varsity C Club Dance 
held last Saturday in the Tech 
gym opened the all-school social 
calendar. Almost 300 conples 
danced to the music of the Walt 
Harper Combo.
A scholarship presented to the 
outstanding freshman of last year 
and the introduction of Home
coming Queen candidates in their 
first formal appearance were high
lights of the evening. Eric Otterj vik, president of the C club prei sented the scholarship to Thira 
Suwan, a Sophomore Printing 
Management major from Thailand 
i who played varsity tennis.
Seven of the eight candidates 
for Homecoming Queen were in: troduced by Jim Frazier, chairman 
of the Homecoming Queens Com
mittee. The candidates are: 
Audrey Sue Applebaum, Sue 
Bradford, Marcie Bridge, Jan Conj rad, Sally Ganong, Lana Kubasak, 
Pat Moore and Judy Perry. Each 
| girl was asked to tell something 
j of her activities in high school and 
to answer a specific question per| taining to Tech campus and fra; ternity life.
Y *s To Sponsor 
Second In Series 
On Nov. Elections
What the Democrats have to 
say about Novembers Election 
i will be discussed next Thursday, 
| October 16th at 4:30 in the Union 
by Molly Yard Garrett.
I This lecture discussion is the
i second in the series Know Your 
; Politics  Whats Important in 
| Novembers Election sponsored 
| by the Y.M.-Y.W.C.A- Dinner 
| priced at 60 cents will be served 
after the discussion.
Mrs. Barrett, active in local po
litics, organized Adlai Stevensons 
presidential campaign in Pitts
burgh and Philadelphia.
Next week the last discussion of 
the series will feature Silvestry 
Silvestry, a member of the Speak
ers Bureau from Republican head
quarters.
Cordic Holding 
A Miss Brick 
Throw" Contest
Who will be Miss Brick Throw 
of 1959?
That will be decided Saturday 
evening, November 8, when the 
eagerly awaited Miss Brick 
Throw finals and show are staged 
at Syria Mosque.
Perpetrators of the event, of 
course, are Rege Cordic and com
pany, KDKA Radios zany wakeup entertainers and the chief ad 
vocates of the sport of brick throw 
as a safe outlet for excess Energy 
and an expression of the desire 
to do something.
Program
The evening will include a 
demonstration by Buffy Budekovitch, the Stan Musial of brick 
throw (audience participation 
will not be encouraged during this 
portion of the program), the world 
premiere of a new Cordic and 
Company film on the romance of 
bricks, concert selections by 
Mother LaFarge, accompanied on 
the drums by her son Roquefort, 
as well as entertainment.
Meanwhile, Cordic and company 
and encouraging individuals and 
groups to send in their nomina
tions for the Miss Brick Throw 
title.
Nominations should include the 
name, address, phone number, de
scriptive material and a photo
graph. The candidates brick 
throwing ability will be taken for 
granted, and she should be able to 
perform in some other field.
Married women as well as single 
ones are eligible to compete, and 
there are no age restrictions. En
tries should be sent to KDKA 
Radio, Pittsburgh 22.
C^offecji a te 
C^uiturai 
C^ciientlar
By Natalie Laird
On Wednesday, October 29, the 
Y.M. & W.H.A. musical society 
series will present its first concert 
in celebration of the tenth birth
day of the State of Israel. The 
recital will feature the pianist, 
Daniel Barenboim, from Israel. 
The recital will feature the pian
ist, Daniel Barenboim, from Is
rael. The concert will be held at 
8:40 at the Y.M. & W.H.A. at 315 
South Bellefield Avenue in Oak
land.
Drama
The first drama department pro
duction, The Crucible by Arthur 
Miller will open on October 22 and 
continue through October 30. It 
will also be given on November 3. 
The play will be directed by 
Charles Werner Moore. It will be 
held in the Little Theater in the 
College of Fine Arts.
Charles Bell 
The Pittsburgh Friends of New 
Music will present a concert on 
Saturday, October 18, at 8:30 at 
the Carnegie Lecture Hall featur
ing the Charles Bell Contemporary 
Jazz Quartet. Tickets are 99 cents.
Symphony 
The opening concerts of the 
1958-59 Pittsburgh Symphony Sea
son will be held on October 17 
and 19 at Syria Mosque. The first 
concert will feature an all-orchestra program and will include
f 7iPresident Warner 
Speaking To Tech 
Alumni In Calif.
Dr. John C. Warner will present 
a Post Geneva Conference Eval
uation of Carnegie Techs Educa
tional Plans when he visits with 
Carnegie alumni in Calif Via 
tomorrow, October 15 through 
Thursday, October 17.
A member of the second United 
Nations conference on peaceful 
uses of atomic energy held in 
Geneva, Switzerland, Dr. Warner 
plans to summarize the most sig
nificant results of the conference 
and then give his estimate on 
how well Carnegie Techs educa
tional program prepares young 
men and women to help AmeJta 
in a position of leadership in the 
atomic age.
Dorm Council
Mens Dormitory Council held 
elections last Tuesday to fill all 
remaining vacant offices.
Council representatives, them
selves newly elected, chose J.ohn 
Lemmer vice-president, (jfi-y 
Brandenburger recording secre
tary, Jimmy Powers corresponding 
secretary, and Joe Rzepka prop
erty custodian.
The president, Len Cozza, and 
treasurer, Dave Campbell, were 
elected last spring by the outgo
ing council. Dormitory Council 
representatives are the presidents 
of the mens dormitories.
-
Handels Suite from The Water 
Music, Brahms Variations on a 
theme by Haydn, and Schuberts 
' No. 7 in C Major.
Cross Country
Have you ever seen a cross 
country meet? Like to see 
one? Be on Glagstaff Hill to
day at 4:00 p.m.Tech vs. 
Case.
Teclis Fine Arts 
School Enters 
Design Conference
The American Society of Indus
trial Designers will hold its Fourth 
Annual Design Conference at Bed
ford Springs, Pennsylvania, on 
October 18-21, 1958.
The industrial design section of 
Carnegie Techs College of Fine 
Arts is one of twelve schools in
vited to exhibit samples of stu
dent work at the conference.
William M. Goldsmith, secre
tary-treasurer of the Dave Chap
man Industrial Design office in 
Chicago, Illinois, is currently 
ASID President. Goldsmith is a 
1939 Carnegie graduate in indus
trial design.
MY" Coffee Hour
Every Tuesday afternoon, 3:30 
through 4:30, the YWCA and 
YMCA and all interested students 
meet in Skibo for a coffeebreak.
Under the moderation of Pro
fessors Houghteling and Shaeffer, 
the floor is opened to a period of 
discussion of current events.
Such topics as the problem of 
integration and China have been 
reviewed. As various other topics 
arise experts in this subjects will 
be guests.
Newman Club
The Newman Club is having an 
initiation Communion breakfast 
next Sunday, October 19. Mass 
will be said at ten oclock at St. 
Pauls Cathedral, and it will be 
followed immediately by initia
tion at Central Catholic High 
School, Fifth Avenue, at eleven 
oclock.
Also next Sunday, the Middle 
Atlantic Province is sponsoring a 
forum for leaders at Newman 
Hall from one to four. This forum 
is being held for club officers, com
mittee chairmen, and all other 
members interested in attending.
Emerson Club
The Emerson Club begins its 
philosophy series of seven lectures 
next Sunday, October 19 with a 
talk by Dr. John McCarthy of 
Pitt, who will speak on Dialecti
cal Materialism. All students are 
invited to these meetings, which 
are held every Sunday at r?00 
p.m. at the First Unitarian Church, 
Ellsworth and Morewood Avenues. 
Refreshments and fellowship will 
follow the lecture.
Home Ec Club
In connection with the Pitts
burgh bi-centennial year the home 
economics club has chosen as its 
theme An Old-Fashion Recipe 
for Modern Living.
A welcome is extended to home 
economics freshmen to learn the 
Basic Ingredients on Wednes
day, October 15 at 3:30 in the 
MMCC recreation room.
Refreshments will be served 
after Miss Myers talk on the 
Ninth International Congress on 
home economics and Jan Felmeths and Steff Kovacs report on 
the American Home Economics 
Association Convention.
Explorer Club
The Explorers Club has sched
uled rock climbing trips for the 
next two Sundays. On October 
19 the group will go to McConnels Mills near Portersville, -?a. 
On October 26 there will be a 
trip to High Rocks near Derry, 
Pa. The car pools will leave Skibo 
at 9:00 a.m. Beginners should 
bring gym shoes, old gloves, warm 
clothes, and a lunch. For more 
information call: Hugh Young, day 
MA. 1-2600, night EM. 1-6814; or 
Dick Schroth, MA. 1-6027. The 
regular club meeting will be held 
on October 20 at 7:30 a.m. in AH 
336B. 
Phi Kappa Phi
The first meeting of Phi Kappa 
Phi will be held in Engineering 
Hall-1112, at 4:00 next Monday, 
October 20. Election of seniors 
to the chapter will be held.
Hillel
The Hillel graduate student anti 
faculty group will hold a barn 
dance o\ Sunday, October 19,*lit 
8:30 in the studio lounge, YMHAYWHA Building, 315 South Belle
field Street.
Republicans
The CIT Young Republicans 
will meet tomorrow evening Wed
nesday, October 15th at 7:30 at 
the Beta Theta Pi House. All in
terested students are invited.
u

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 14, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPagre 2
3:30
11:30
4:30
7:30
&
4:30
4:30
7:30
8:45
ch
3:00
11:30
Calendar of Erents
Tuesday, October 14
p.m.YM-YWCA Coffee Break ................................................Skibo
Wednesday, October 15
-a.m.-1:30 p.m.Voting for Homecoming Queen.. .Cut and Skibo
Tech-Case Cross Country Meet.................................Flagstaff Hill
p.m.Young Republicans Meeting ....___Beta Theta Pi House
Thursday, October 16
p.m.What the Democrats Have to Say About Novembers 
Election: Speaker, Molly Yard Garrett. Dinner fol
lowing ..............................................................Carnegie Union
and 7:45 p.m.Film Art Society..........................Porter Hall 100
p.m.Young Democrats Meeting..........................Carnegie Union
Friday, October 17
p.m.Pittsburgh Symphony Concert ......................Syria Mosque
Saturday, October 18
-Indiana Football Game ................................................................Away
Sunday, October 19
p.m.Emercon Club .................................First Unitarian Church
Tuesday, October 21
a.m.All-school assembly  Scientific and Humanistic 
Frontiers of a Research Man, Dr. Sergio DiBenedetti, 
speaker........................................................Fine Arts Theater
University Bar and Grill
8 MOW, I ASK. V6H _ WHERE IN OAKLiUO 
YOU FIMD MORE C.ULTUEE??
Reverend Weigel Advises 
"Trust Your Intelligence
The Reverend Gustave A. Weigel, S.J. speaking at the 
first assembly program of the year, last Tuesday in the Fine 
As Little Theater, said, You can trust your own intelli
gence. You can be sure of conquest because you are true to
your intelligence. ?-----------------------------------------------------
The Reverend Father Weigel, 
professor of ecclesiology at Mary
land's Woodstock College, deliver
ed what many students termed an 
exceptional address toned to the 
comprehension of and application 
to the college student.Jhe premise of his discussion 
that whatever instruments of 
knowledge one uses after college,
it is the human personality that 
pushes us to our encompossing 
envelope. In the ecquisition of 
schooling, then, we gain a knowl
edge of the Divine.
Human Being 
The human being, according to 
the speaker, is I centered. He 
possesses a bundle of drives to get 
hkn out.
uite often, he went on, we per
ceive the Divine as on the edge 
f reality; that is, we suppose a 
God rather than understand him.
The Supreme Being is interpreted 
as in the very nature of things.
Many people regard Him as 
'You,* a Being with-whom they 
are personally involved.
From these two postulates arise
two beliefs, in the opinion of Fa
ther Weigel. If the Absolute is an 
It, the Supreme Being is like 
the inorganice, far removed from 
the eye, unthinking, unfeeling, and 
therefore unconcerned with me. 
When an adherent of this convic
tion utters the words, Thy will be 
done, he means Whatever will 
be, will be. He believes that he 
has no control over fate.
If, on the other hand, the Di[continued on page 7]
Prof. Marscliak 
G iven Appointment 
To GSIA School
Professor Jacob Marschak, na
tionally known authority in the 
fields of economic theory of de
cision and organization, has been 
I appointed Ford Distinguished Re
search Professor for 1958-59 in 
the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration, Carnegie, Presi
dent John C. Warner announced 
last Tuesday.
The professorschip, one of the 
first two such positions in the 
nation, was established in 1957 
by a Ford Foundation grant of 
$500,000. Leading authorities in 
the field of industrial administra
tion throughout the world are in
vited to Carnegie to occupy the 
position on an annual basis.
Professor at Yale
Dr. Marschak has been a Pro
fessor of Economics at Yale Uni
versity since 1955 and will return 
there immediately following his 
year tenure at Carnegie.
When advised of his appoint
ment to the Professorship, Dr. 
Marschak said, In my opinion, 
Carnegies Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration is a lead
ing institution in this country and 
in the world in advancing the 
modern analysis of human decis
ions and organization.
Dr. Marschak has become joint 
editor of the journals bearing the 
titles of these fields, Management 
Science and Behavioral Science. 
He has written articles for publi
cation in many journals including 
Review of Economic Statistics, 
American Economic Review, Jour
nal of Political Economics and 
Bulletin of Atomic Scientists.
Printers Form 
New Honorary
Student Congress has formally 
announced its recognition of the 
establishment of the Eta Chapter 
of Gamma Epsilon Tau, an inter
national collegiate graphic arts 
honor society.
The honorary was formed to re
cognize scholastic achievement by 
students, in the School of Printing 
Management who desire to work 
toward further progress and ad
vancement of the graphic arts.
Its members are thus encourag
ed to contribute constructively to 
the printing industry by supplying 
the leadership necessary for a 
rapid rate of growth and develop
ment.
Founded Last Year
Twelve charter members found
ed the Eta Chapter at the end of 
the 1957-1958 school year and call
ed thirteen more of their fellow 
students to membership. Under 
the leadership of the printing de
partment and broadening the 
scope of interest.
Several members are now en
gaged in the printing of the Plaid 
Proofs, the printing departments 
magazine for alumni, and others 
are completing plans for a series 
of seminars on new developments 
in the graphic arts.
An important long range under
taking is a campaign to publicize 
printing as a career and to in
crease public interest in the 
graphic arts. In this way GET 
members are striving to demon
strate their interests in the print
ing industry and to promote an 
awareness of the need for leaders 
of high calibre.
Students! 10% Discount
SHIRTS - DRY CLEANING 
BEAUTIFULLY FINISHED
Center - Craig
4615 Centre Ave.
Shirt Laundry
MU 3-4&
Owned and Operated by Stan FriedmanCollege 50 
10% DISCOUNT WITH STUDENT ID CARD
The
Worlds
Most
Honored
Show
MICHAEL TODDS
80
Now Shady side Theatre 
COMING 'RED AND THE BLACK
On Campus
withMaxShuIman
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek")
SAIL ON, SAIL ON!
I suppose October 12 is just another day to you. You get up in 
the ordinary way and do all the ordinary things you ordinarily 
do. You have your breakfast, you walk your ocelot, you go to 
classes, you write home for money, you burn the dean in effigy, 
you watch Disneyland, and you go to bed. And do you give one 
little thought to the fact that October 12 is Columbus Day? 
No, you do not.
Nobody thinks about Columbus these days. Let us, there
fore, pause for a moment and retell his ever-glorious, endlessly 
stirring saga.
c/fcp/r,>5 eyec on
Christopher Columbus was born in Genoa on August 23,1451. 
His father, Ralph T. Columbus, was in the three-minute auto 
wash game. His mother, Eleanor (Swifty) Columbus, was a 
sprinter. Christopher was an only child, except for his four 
brothers and eight sisters. With his father busy all day at the 
auto wash and his mother constantly away at track meets, 
young Columbus was left pretty much to his own devices. 
However, the lad did not sulk or brood. He was an avid reader 
and spent all his waking hours immersed in a book. Unfor
tunately, there was only one book in Genoa at the time 
Care of the Horse by Aristotleand after several years of reading 
Care of the Horse, Columbus grew restless. So when rumor 
reached him that there was another book in Barcelona, off he 
ran as fast as his fat little legs would carry him.
The rumor, alas, proved false. The only book in Barcelona 
was Cuidar un Cabaf/o by Aristotle, which proved to be nothing 
more than a Spanish translation of Care of the Horse.
Bitterly disappointed, Columbus began to dream of going to 
India where, according to legend, there were thousands of books. 
But the only way to go to India was on horseback, and after so 
many years of reading Care of the Horse, Columbus never wanted 
to clap eyes on a horse again. Then a new thought struck him: 
perhaps it was possible to get to India by sea!
Fired with his revolutionary new idea, Columbus raced to 
the court of Ferdinand and Isabella on his little fat legs (Co
lumbus was plagued with little fat legs all his life) and pleaded 
his case with such fervor that the rulers were persuaded.
On October 12, 1492, Columbus set foot on the New World. 
The following year he returned to Spain with a cargo of wonders 
never before seen in Europespices and metals and plants and 
flowers andmost wondrous of alltobacco! Ob, what a sensa
tion tobacco caused in Europe! The filter had lfing since been 
invented (by Aristotle, curiously enough) but nobody knew 
what to do with it. Now Columbus, the Great Discoverer, made 
still another great discovery: he took a filter, put tobacco in 
front of it, and invented the worlds first filter cigarette 1
rl hrough the centuries filters have been steadily improved 
and so has tobacco, until today we have achieved the ultimate 
in the filter cigaretteMarlboro, of course! Oh, what a piece 
of work is Marlboro! Great tobacco, great filter, great smoke I 
And so, good friends, when next you enjoy a fine Marlboro 
Cigarette, give a thought to the plucky Genoese, Christopher 
Columbus, whose vision and perseverance made the whole lovely 
thing possible.
 1SS Mfti ShulOMa
And thank Columbu* too for Philip Morris Cigaretten, for 
those u ho want the best in non-titter smoking. Philip Morris 
joins Marlboro in bringing you these column* throughout the school year.

---------------------------------------------------

Tzge 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday. October 1, 195*
Editorial
Publicize!
Why was the pep rally last Friday night a 
failure? What caused the poor attendance 
at the last meeting of that honorary? Where 
were the throngs which should have attend
ed the art exhibit? These questions have 
plagued the minds of the campus leaders 
since time began and have seemingly yet to 
be answered. And each year usually brings 
forth many statements from these campus 
leaders placing the blame on (um)  
apathy.
This year, as usual, the Tartan is placing 
the blame on apathyapathy on the part of 
the campus leaders; for too often the lead
ers feel obligated only to schedule and ar
range the various campus events and activ
ities and placidly assume that the rest of the 
student body will automatically attend and 
support these activities. Such is simply not 
the case, as is evident from the poor show
ing of some of the abovementioned events.
The Tartan feels that more attention 
should be given to generating enthusiasm for 
campus activities. Such generation has its 
logical beginnings with the person (s) re
sponsible for the activities, since without ef
fective and dynamic leadership, any under
taking is doomed to failure.
Lunik The Schenley Ape
Har-r-ry-Ive Changed My Mind
The next obvious question is what evidence is there that , _ _ #
shows that the campus leadership is ineffective? The answer j OlltClOOr liiCIllCcltlOJl
is that there is too little publicity for most campus wide Keynote Of The
events. The Tartan receives much too little material of the * 
press release variety to adequately cover the programs of West Penn Conf.
[continued on page 7] Outdoor Education was the 
theme of the Western Pennsylva
nia Education Conference, held 
last Friday, October 10, in Pitts
burgh.
The program was held in Pitts
burgh through the cooperation of
Carnegie Tech and the Univers
ity of Pittsburgh. It began with a 
luncheon at the First Baptist 
Church, at Bayard and Bellefield 
Avenues, and was followed by an 
afternoon meeting consisting of a 
three-phase outdoor education 
program.
Speakers
At the luncheon Dr. Jack 
George, of the Roslyn Public 
School system of New York, spoke 
on the topic of Outdoor Educa
tion in the Schools. The after
noon meeting was held on the 
Carnegie Tech practice field by 
Forbes Avenue. This three-phase 
meeting consisted of outdoor cook
ery, nature crafts, and casting.
Mrs. Marguerite Duball, of 
Pennsylvania State University, 
handled the outdoor cooking 
phase. Mr. David Hart, of the 
Missakickox Trailside Museum, 
was in charge of nature crafts and 
the casting portion of the program 
was handled by Mr. O. T. Rosencraus of the Pittsburgh Casting 
Club.
Theme
The conference theme, on Out
door Education, relatively new 
to the Pittsburgh area, was a fine 
opportunity for faculty members 
to gain new insight into the possi
bilities of incorporating outdoor 
education in school curriculum.
at 
jjtljtt
12:30 Delete Justice
Editor, the Tartan:
The reason that I did not write a reply concerning your 
excellent dissertation on the great advantages of the new pre
cautionary measure designed to help protect the purity and 
of the CIT boarding^-----------------------------------------------------innocence
girls, i. e. the 12:30 rule, is that; houses and dress in time to pick I considered it too absurd to
warrant the time spent writing 
one. But since you persist in this 
vein, I will.
First, I think that the most 
logical place to start to examine 
this ruling is at its source. Deup their dates earlier.
Perhaps the best solution is to j 
go back to the previous standard j 
of 1:30 with the provision that 
those people who cannot entertain 
a girl for this long period and find
spite what the school may say to j themselves a complete bore at the 
the public, I have been told by a ; stroke of 12:30 may feel free to 
iaculty-member that the ruling' take their dates back to the conwas imposed as a punishment to; vent early. This, I believe, would 
the girls for their part in the lit- keep both of us happy.
tie disturbance we had last year 
concerning certain undergarments 
generally worn by the fairer sex.
Penalty
In imposing this penalty the
school envoked one of our great 
democratic principles of justice, proposition.) 
and fair play, that ispunish the 
innocent with the guilty. You j
know, the sort of thing that this 
country was founded on. Fresh- j 
man girls, girls who transferred Editor, the Tartan 
here this year, and of course, j In the last issue of your splendid
those little darlings who studied j journal, I read an entry in the
Rufus Darby 
Jr. Prt. Mgt.
(Editors note: The application 
of sarcasm and exaggeration to an 
opposing point of view does not 
necessarily validate ones own
Willie vs Cyrus
through the whole thing now find 
themselves bearing the burden 
for those girls who committed the 
dasdardly acts of yelling out win
dows and improving the bodily 
cleanliness of Pittsburghs fine po
lice force.
As for this loss of sleep bit 
assuming that a girl goes to bed 
every school night at 12:30, rises
Readers Write column which 
disturbs me. It appears that 
young Mr. Willie is firmly of the 
opinion that all canines over 
eighteen inches tall should be 
prevented from trespassing on 
CIT property. This I find person
ally offensive.
In spite of the fact that he and
I have maintained a tolerance for 
st 7:30 for class and sleeps one j one another heretofore, I feel that, 
extra hour on Sunday mornings, as an older and longer estabthe new rule will result in a ter- lished member of the clan, I may 
rific increase of exactly four per'* ( have to see to it that he (Mr. 
cent in her beauty sleep. Willie) keeps to his own side of
Wrong Solution Forbes Avenue in the future. His
You seem to feel that the whole j indiscretion cannot be wholly 
solution lies in starting dates | forgiven. A retraction, however, 
earlier. This is a good idea if you j would be viewed favorably, 
can convince fraternity men to j In hopes that his attitude will I evils of smoking, drinking, and
either quit eating supper on party : change, I am, my heart ever in my association with the opposite sex,
nights or to cut classes so they j work, Sincerely,
will have time to decorate their I Cyrus Betzi Hendry
College Evils
Editor, the Tartan:
Just Wanted to tell you that I 
thoroughly enjoyed your amusing 
editorial on 12:30,s at Morewood 
Gardens. However, after read
ing your incredible conclusions in 
the second editorial, it has dawned 
on me that possibly you are ser
ious.
I feel that such earnest endeav
or on the part of a student should 
not meet with the silence that 
followed your first article. So I 
am writing this letter to encour
age you to continue your efforts.
Now, perhaps, you could try 
your hand at something like The
In this era of speed, automation, and pr^- 
duction-line-living, it is vastly important 
that one avoids complete mechanization of 
the individual. This is best accomplished 
through the simple, oft taken for granted 
medium of friendship.
In the Little Prince, Saint-Exupery illus
trates his grasp of this situation with the 
poignant interchange between the little 
prince and the fox. After the little prince 
mentions his quest for friends, the sagaciolfe 
fox speaks of the necessity of taming. He 
defines taming as'an act too often neglected; 
it means to establish ties. The fox continues, 
pointing out that at the time of their meet
ing, the little prince was nothing more than 
a little boy just like a hundred thousand 
others; and that he, the fox, was nothing, 
more than a fox like a hundred thousand 
others. Neither had need of the other. If tie 
prince were to tame the fox, however, each 
would have need of the other and to each 
the other would be unique. The fox con
cludes with the idea that only one under
stands the things that one tames.
Men have no more time to understand 
anything. They buy things already made at the shops. But 
there is no shop in the world where one can buy friendships. 
Even Machiavelli understood this when he said, Friends )p 
which is gained by purchase and not through grandeur and 
nobility of spirit is bought but not secured.
As Saint-Exupery suggests, friendship, i. e. this under
standing; should unfold gradually. A companion possesses a 
dark grey flannel suit which from a distance appears to be 
rather common. As one draws nearer, he is pleased to find in
stead a suit of subtle dark grey plaid. On even closer in
spection brought about by the pleasant sensation of finding 
more than had been anticipated, one finds a single bide 
thread running through the plaid. How much more interest
ing is this series of reactions to visual stimuli than to see a 
suit of large black and white checks. Ones vision is assaulted 
from a distance; propinquity contributes nothing to what has 
been observed at first glimpse. Certainly all of us have oc
casioned the black and white check individual who reveals 
his complete self in a matter of seconds (and also usually a 
very impressive life history!) Does one feel attracted to this 
individual? Most likely not. One is generally satisfied Wx^il 
the glimpse from a distance. Thus the wise friend-to-be per
mits judicious revelation of his finer attributes, his inner 
thoughts and feelings; the whole of his personality.
The sensitive man will take the time and the patience 
to develop friendship and hence understanding.
Blenheim
tieC A R N E G I
TARTA
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. Office phone, MU 2-4557; Co-Editors EM 1-7157 and MU 2^9053; 
Advertising Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school 
year except holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. " J
C*-Elitor ...........................................................1................................................... Cairo! Soohy
Co-Editor  .......................... ............................................... .......................  Richar*. Wiley
Associate Editor ..,.......................................................................................................... David D*1E
Business Manager . .................................................................................................... Michael Bass
News Editor .......................... ........................................................................................... Tom Bier
Sport* Editor ................................................................................................................. George Pari"
Copy Editor  .............................................. ........................................................ Jerry Sullivan
Assistant News EditorJanet Natopolous, Feature EditorLex 
Baker, Photography EditorAlan Gickler, Assistant Business Mana
gerLee Adlesberg, Advertising ManagerMike .Balsam; Assistant 
Advertising ManagerMiles Hollander, SecretaryRena Siegal, Circulation ManagerGary Brandenburger.
News StaffMike Clayton, Marianne Hadle, Natalie Laird, Narlfy 
Tull, Terrie Rudy, Beth Linden, Paul Hess, Dru Shapiro, Bill Mohney,
Arlene Qugrico, Bob Novak, Linda Friedlob, Georgia White, Sally
Gonong, Lois Wolfe, Betsy Moss, Mike Brunt, Dori Cline, Phil James, 
Carolyn Saxton, Toni Friedman.
Sports StaffDick Hamilton, Pete Pence, Stan Zionts, Mikgf Bea
man, Ed Blum.
Copy StaffFrank Baloh, Sperce Anderson, Jim Flowers.
Second Class Postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Second clans postage paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising toy Nation] Advertising, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 14, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPag S
Carnegie Tartan
George Paris  Sports Editor
Cross-Country Team 
Remains Undefeated
Techs undefeated cross country team roared to its third 
and fourth victories this week as they rolled over Waynesburg and Geneva. Techs entire ten man squad crossed the 
finish line ahead of the first Waynesburg man as they easily
chalked up a 15-50 shutout on^----------------------------------------------------
Monday. On Thursday against the
once powerful Geneva Covies the 
Tech Harriers again swept to a dee0ve victory, winning 17-45. The 
best Geneva could do was fourth 
place behind Techs front running 
senior trio Dick Hamilton, EricOttervik, and Bill Wittman. Run
ning together, Ottervik, Hamilton, 
and Wittman built up an early 
lead and were never challenged. 
After Genevas first man came 
Woody Fritz, Bill Anderson and 
Finn Blomquist finishing strong 
ahead of the rest of the tiring 
Hfcaver Falls crew. Tech wound 
up the meet with 9 out of the first 
twelve places.
Team Balance 
The Techmen have now won 4 
straight decisive victories. Due to
Cratsley Optimistic 
In B-Ball Outlook 
j^or Coming Season
By Stan Zionts
Usually pessimistic Carnegie 
Tech basketball coach, Mel Crats
ley, is anything but pessimistic 
about the prospects for his teams 
coming season.
Coach Cratsley has six returning 
lettermen and several other prom
ising returnees and newcomers. 
He does, however, have the seem
ingly inevitable Tech problem of 
Wbk of depth on the team, and is 
still waving the welcome mat for 
any new candidates.
Tartan Squad 
Although the Tartan squad is 
relatively young, it is not at all 
inexperienced. Junior Mike Flynn 
is a two-letter winner, while Bud 
Miller, Tom Mueller, Stan Skalka, Andy 'Komer, and Bill Soffa 
have each been awarded one. Be
cause of a severe shortage of reW-rves last year, the letter-winners played for a major part of 
most of the game. Tom Huff and 
; Ted Williams, outstanding on the 
freshman squad last year, look 
like promising outside men.
The freshman prospects are not 
as good. While 23 freshmen show
ed up for practice on September 
 29, only eleven held high school 
letters. From past experiences it 
K known that approximately half 
% the freshmen will drop the 
team before the season is well 
underway.
Freshman
Outstanding frosh from early 
reports include: Bob Hauser,
Duquesne High School; Lelan 
Jamison, Hopkins (Minnesota) 
High School; Don Brosius, Aspinwall High School; Bob Quain, 
Binghamton (NY) High School; 
Jim Tomlinson, Dormont High 
%chool; and Dom Perrata, Mc
Keesport High School.
The frosh play a 12-game 
schedule highlighted by contests 
against the Pitt, Duquesne, and 
W & J freshmen. The varsity 
schedule, which includes ten 
home contests is listed as follows: 
Dec. 1*Duquesne 
Dec. 3 Indiana S.T.C.
(Home)
early season injuries suffered by 
team co-captains, Ottervik and 
Hamilton, the winning times have 
not been spectacular. Instead, the 
Tartans outstanding feature has 
been their fine team balance. As 
an illustration, Freshman Dave 
Degerthardt running as Techs 
anchorman, has been posting times 
comparable to- those of last years 
third man. This kind of depth 
makes the 1958 Harriers a strong 
contender for the West Penn Con
ference and Tri-State honors. The 
first real test will come on Satur
day as Tech travels to Slippery 
Rock. Beaten only by Pitt, the 
Teachers are very strong this 
year, so Saturdays meet will be 
a tough one.
Tech is scheduled to run Case 
Tech today. The meet will be held 
in Schenley Park with the race 
starting at 4:00 p.m. on Flagstaff 
Hill. The Tartans are heavily 
favored to win.
Thus far:
Tech 15*, Jeannette 50 
Tech 17. Duquesne 46 
Tech 15,. Waynesburg 50 
Tech 17, Geneva 45
* Low score wins.
Favorites Winning 
In IM Football
In the second week of football 
action, favored teams continued to 
win with ease.
The Yankee league is being do
minated by Kappa Sigma and the 
Englishmen. Both teams won by 
superior margins last week and we 
are looking for them to finish 
one-two in this league.
Kappa Sigs attack is lead by 
quarterback Jim Hildebrand and 
end Don Casey. This combo led 
them to an easy victory over Citcom last week.
In Brave league play the Theta 
Xis and Sigma Nus are leading 
the way as expected. Sigma Nu 
defeated the IA Grads 21 to 8 
behind a strong offense led by 
Dean Zimmerman, Lou Perretta
Dec. 6*Grove City 
Dec. 11*St. Vincent (Home) 
Dec. 16^Westminster 
(Home)
Dec. 19 W & J (Home)
Jan. 6 Gannon (Home)
Jan. 7*Waynesburg 
Jan. 10*Geneva 
Jan. 13 Pitt
Jan. 14*Grove City (Home) 
Jan. 17*Duquesne 
Jan 31*Westminster 
Feb. 3 Slippery Rock 
Feb. 4*St. Vincent 
Feb. 7^Geneva (Home)
Feb. 10 Pitt (Home)
Feb. 12 Allegheny
Feb. 14 W & J
Feb. 16 Indiana S.T.C.
Feb. 18Waynesburg 
(Home)
Feb. 19 Slippery Rock 
(Home)
Feb. 27 Penn State
Feb. 28 Bucknell
* West Penn Conferee Games.
Tech Defeats Thiel
[continued from page 1]
The third quarter found both teams playing the same 
type of game. The cold windy weather was responsible for 
several fumbles and dropped passes which the ends couldn t 
hold on to.
With two minutes remaining in the quarter Mu*h drop
ped back to pass and was hit hard and fumbled. The ball was 
grabbed in mid air by Their Guard Rossetti and he ran 40 
yards with it for the first score. Theil tried to pass the extra 
point, but Jim Temmel intercepted the pass to keep the score 
at Theil 6 Carnegie 0.
Pass Intercepted
The Tartans couldnt move the ball after the kickoff and 
punted to Theil. On the third play from scrimmage, Muth 
intercepted a Peckich pass and returned it 30 yards to the 
Theil 45 yard line.
A keyed up Tech offense moved the ball quickly downfield with key runs coming on end sweeps by Zinni and Muth, 
and a Muth to Wilson pass also getting a key first down.
With second and 8 on the Theil 13 yard line, Muth faked 
a center plunge and threw to Zinni in the flat. With Poad pro
viding a key block Zinni went over for the score. Majeski 
kicked the point to give Tech a 7-6 lead.
A hard tackle by Zinni shook the ball loose from Jeckich 
who returned Hammers kickoff and Tech recovered his 
fumble on the midfield stripe.
With Jim Muth directing the offense the Skibos again 
moved quickly downfield and scored on a 10 yard end sweep 
by Zinni. The Tech line was largely responsible for the gains 
as they pushed the Theilmen all over the field. Majeski again 
made the point and Tech took a 14-6 lead.
Theil moved deep downfield to the Tartan 25 yard line, 
but time was running short and quarterback George Peckich 
had to try for a long pass for the score. He tried to throw 
three times and each time was caught in his own backfield 
by a hard charging Tartan line led by Dave Love and Gary 
Yarborough. Time ran out with Tech in possession on their 
own 40 yard line.
It was a great victory fprMhe Tech team as they again 
showed that they can come through when the chips are 
down. With hopes of having an undefeated untied season the 
Tartans take on Indiana State Teachers-next week at Indiana 
and were looking for Tech to win in a rout.
and Karl Mandry. TX also won 
their game with SAE B by a 
38 to 23 score. Eddie Davis and 
Bob Patton lead the TX attack.
Pirate League 
The Pirate League found teams 
playing wily and wooly football 
and pre-season favorite Delta Tau 
Delta was upset by a fired up Phi 
Kappa team 9 to 7.
The Met Grads won a hard
fought game from SAE 21 to 16 
with a last quarter pass to Raab 
providing the margin of victory. 
SAE lead throughout most of the 
game behind the fine running and 
passing of Chuck Vodvarka.
ATO the other strong team in 
this league tromped over Theta Xi 
by a 33 to 8 score. The ATO at
tack was lead by Fred Garibaldi, 
Nick Sopkovich and George Paris.
Carman Stars 
In Marathon
Tech cross-country coach and 
national star distance runner Bob 
Carman added another accom
plishment to his long list of great 
running feats by placing second 
in the New Jersey International 
Marathon Race held at Jersey City 
last Saturday.
It was the first time Carman 
had attempted the grueling 26- 
mile 385 yard run and he came 
through with flying colors. Olym
pic star Johnny Kelly won the 
event finishing nine minutes ahead 
of Carmans time.
First Marathon
Previously Carman had never 
participated in races longer than 
fifteen miles, and he is recognized 
as one of the countrys top six 
milers.
Before the race, Carman told 
this reporter that he would feel 
satisfied to simply finish the gruel
ing race. In winning he defeated 
some of the greatest marathon 
runners in this and foreign coun
tries.
Enter TheTARTAN
c
o
c

o2)
fi 
'J 
 
S
NOW!
For real, down-to-earth 
smoking enjoyment, theres 
nothing else like Camel. No 
other cigarette brings you 
the rich flavor and easy
going mildness of Camels 
costly blend. More people 
smoke Camels than any 
other cigarette of any kind. 
Today as always, the best 
tobacco makes the best 
smoke.
Rise above fads
and fancy stuff . . 
CARN A ENAG ISTAENUUN O FARN A HLYDe
B * Only time he comes down 
is when he wants a Camel I**


---------------------------------------------------

Page eCARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 14, 1958
-on
-?-a
Can you compete with another person Yes 
without feeling hostile?
Do you ever say things you dont; Yes 
believe, just to start a discussion?
When youre very hungry, do you like yes 
to try out strange foods?
Do you enjoy being called upon as an yes 
umpire to settle disputes?
New World Champs: 
Yanks Regain Throne
By Frank Spriggs
Much has been written about the World Series of 1958 
and much more will be written in the years to come as 
writers hearken back to the hectic and hair-raising events 
that marked the series between Fred Haneys Milwaukee 
Braves and Charles D. Casey #--------------------------------------------5---------
Stengels New York Yankees.
What started out to be a drab 
and poorly played series develop
ed into one of the most sensa
tional struggles of all time, re
plete with suspense and thrills and 
one in which old records were
series from a hospital bed, won it 
for the Braves with a tenth in
ning single. Spahn went all the 
way to receive credit for the vic
tory while the defeat was charg
ed to rookie right-hander Ryne
broken and new records estab-; Duren, who relieved Ford in the 
lished only to be broken again j eighth.
before the curtain rang down on Yankee Killer Lew Burdette 
the seventh and final game, leav- face(j the Yanks 21 game winner 
ing spectators and fans nation Bob Turley in the second game, 
wide, limp and bedraggled from por ajj practical purposes the 
its succession of exciting and dra- game was decided in the first
matic events.
Opener
The series opened on October 1 
in Milwaukee, the so-called  base
ball capital of the world. Both
inning. The Yankees, attempting to 
square the series, scored a run in 
their first, thus ending Burdettes 
string of scoreless innings at 24. 
However, the Braves bounced
Haney and Stengel nominated back quickly to score seven big 
their left-hand pitching aces, runs in their half of the first, the 
seeking to gain the advantage rally being concluded by Lew 
with a first game victory. This Burdettes three run homer. The 
meant Ed Whitey Ford and final score indicates that Lew had 
Warren Spahn would clash in the a rocking chair despite two home 
lid lifter. The selection of Ford runs by Mickey Mantle and one
did not surprise anyone as he is by Hank Bauer,
generall yregarded as baseballs Third Game
top pitcher. His lifetime average A11 eyes turned to Yankee Staof .724. based on 105 victories and dium where the third game was 
40 defeats, and his lifetime ERA piayed after a day of travel on 
of 2.61 are both tops for any Friday. Casey Stengel, his back
pitcher now working in the ma- to the wall> called on Don Perjors. feet Game Larsen to hurl for the
Howere, Haneys selection of Bronx Bombers. Haney, realizing 
Spahn meant a field day for the he could afford to gamble threw 
second guessers. Wasnt it Bur- Bob Rush, acquired from the Cubs 
dette who had won three games the past winter, 
from these same Yankees last Contrary to popular belief, the 
fall? Why then, start Spahn Yankees, when the chips were 
Haney defended his choice, claim- down, still had what it took to 
ing that this way he would have rake jn a winning pot. Before a 
both Spahn and Burdette availa- homecoming crowd of 71,599 at 
ble for three starts each. The the House that Ruth Built, they 
Yankees jumped off to a 3-2 lead, rocked the Braves back on their 
thanks to the home run bats of heels with a 4-0 defeat. Hank 
Hank Bauer and Bill Skowron, Bauer, the fighting ex-Marine was 
only to see the Braves tie it at 3 the Yank who blazed the trail in 
all in their eighth on a New York ' this crucial victory. The 36-yearfielding lapse. old Bomber, playing his ninth
It stayed this way until Billy world series, belted in all four of 
Bruton, who watched last years the Yankees runs. Larsen and
Ryne Duren shared the pitching 
for the Yanks.
Fourth Game
There was no surprise when 
Warren Spahn and Whitey Ford, 
opening day hurlers, were an
nounced as the starting pitchers 
for the fourth game. This was con
sidered a must game for the 
Yanks. Only once before in the 
histry of the seven game world 
series had a team rallied to win 
after being down 3 games to 1.
Again, pitching was the eye 
catcher as both Spahn and Ford 
were sharp. Ford, however, was 
deprived of victory once again as 
a shaky Yankee defense led Spahn 
to a 3-0 win. Yet, in all fairness 
to Spahn, he certainly deserved 
to win as he registered one of the 
best pitched games in series his
tory, a neat two-hitter. Brave 
rooters now found themselves in 
the enviable position of leading 
the Yanks three games to one.
Stengel
Casey Stengel, defying the odd 
makers, gave the nod to Turley 
while Fred Haney kept applying 
the pressure by naming Burdette 
to hurl the fifth game. For the 
third straight day a shut out was 
seen at the Stadium. This time 
Turley administered it, a 7 to 9 
blanking of the Braves while Gil 
McDougald, the most underrated 
player in the game provided the 
bulk of the hitting.
With another day off for trav
eling, the series returned to Mil
waukee. Brave fans were really 
hooting it up, after all, they still 
had two games in which to get 
their one needed victory.
Sixth Game
After the first five games by 
which the Braves held a three to 
two game bulge and especially in 
view of the atrocious fielding the 
the Yankees, none was prepared 
for the amazing sixth game which,
for sheer drama, must go dowries 
one of the greatest in World SJcies history. Both Stengel and 
Haney played into the hands of 
the second-guessers by again 
naming Ford and Spahn to do 
the twirling.
This meant both were coming 
back on only two days rest. Ford 
was not equal to the occasion as 
he was relieved by Art Ditmar in 
the second inning. Through Ditmars tremendous relief work the 
Yanks found themselves in a 3).Jo
2 ball game at the end of 5^4 
innings.
Secret Ambition
Every major league pitcher has 
at least one secret ambition and 
that is to win a World Series 
game. Some of baseballs most tal
ented have never realized this 
hope because they lacked the op
portunity, but Ryne Duren, the 
weak-eyed strong-armed, relief 
specialist for the Yankees,, had
[continued on page a]
firstn ahoaYu tna'Y 
eit a 'alnwww 
lyad.u li kttio 
Aauy ad' Anat
Your timing is as neat as your ap
pearance when the shirt is a new 
Arrow Wash and Wear. No wait
ing for the laundry. Just suds 
drip-dryand youre ready to go! 
Economical, too . . . your allow
ance goes further.
Carefully tailored by Arrow of 
100% cotton oxford and broad
cloth. Choice of collar styles in 
whites, stripes, checks, solids. $4.00 
up. Underwear by Arrow, too.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
eWtul Wd eauyWid
Do You Think for Yourself ? ( *) 
Do you often dislike doing favors lor 
others, even though you tell yourself 
you enjoy it?
Do you refuse to worry about things 
you cant do anything about?
Would you be completely at ease if 
you found yourself suddenly in the 
spotlight at a social gathering?
Would you vote for establishing an 
international language other 
than English?
Familiar
pack or
crushKnows...
ONLY VICEROY HAS A 
THINKING MANS FILTER... 
A SMOKING MANS TASTE!
Now answer this one: Do you really think about
the filter cigarette you choose? YES------- NO 
If your answer is Yes... well, youre the kind 
of person who thinks for himself. You can be 
depended on to use judgment in everything you do. 
The fact is, men and women who really think for 
themselves usually smoke VICEROY. Their reason? 
Best in the world. They know for a fact that 
only VICEROYno other cigarettehas a 
thinking man's filter and a smoking mans taste.
14- 6f5 ]Amo Angtohoe rpi sb u b#
THESE QUESTIONS, YOU ARE A PERSON 
WHO THINKS FOR HIMSELFI

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 14, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7

1958 Thistles
As many Techites have 
found out, there are no 1958 
Thistles for sale! Editors of 
next years book suggest that 
such individuals take advan
tage of their new subscription 
system and order their 1959 
Thistles now!
Editorial
Publicize
&
Congress
[continued from page 1 ] 
inittees. However, this was im
possible since representatives are 
still being elected and the list of 
committee members is therefore 
incomplete. Thus it was decided 
to approve the list as merely 
workable but not complete.
Ruth Vysoky, president of 
Womens Dorm Council, gave a 
short talk on the membership and 
functions of Executive Council.
Under new business, three new 
organizations to campus were ap
proved and recognized by Con
fess. They were the Carnegie 
ech Young Democrats Club, 
Carnegie Tech Young Republi
cans Club, and Gamma Epsilon 
Tau, a printing honorary.
A committee heads meeting 
was called for Wednesday, Oc
tober 15, at 4:30 in Morewood 
Gardens Dorm Council Room.
Weigel[continued from page 3] 
vine is a You, the me has a 
loving attitude. You can use your 
reason in this way because a con
versation was held, the speaker 
declared. With a You, this world 
is structured rationally. The real is 
not hostile. There is no battle with 
reality. You have the courage to 
be and the courage to do. Whenfkis person says, Thy will be 
one, he is ascertaining that al
though he woes not understand 
fully the orderly pattern used by 
the You to make things work, he 
has faith. The You is not be
yond human understanding.
Father Weigel holds a bachelor 
of arts degree from Woodstock, 
and doctors degrees in philosophy 
and sacred theology. He was pro
fessor of theology at the Catholic 
University of Chile for eleven 
years. Editor of numerous publi
cations, the Rev. Father Weigel is 
a much traveled lecturer.
Following the assembly, a num
ber of members of the audience 
discussed the issues of his talk 
with him at lunch in Morewood 
Gardens.
Pemocrats
[continued from page 2] 
ing in the capacity of faculty ad
visors.
The first meeting of the Young 
Democrats will be held Thursday 
evening, October 16 at the Car
negie Union at 7:30. The speaker 
for the evening, a representative 
from the Young Democrats of Al
legheny County, will discuss theirposes of the organization on 
mpus. Also, at this time the Tech 
Young Democrats will receive 
their charter.
Among the activities being 
planned by the Young Democrats 
are mock elections which will be 
held during Pennsylvanias state 
elections. The CIT Young Demo
crats will also attend various De
mocratic conventions and rallies, 
and sometime within the next two 
JLears, they plan to have as their 
Weaker the Democratic presiden
tial candidate for 1960.
FOR COMPLETE 
and GIFT SELECTIONS
 Try Us First OAKLAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE, PAINT.
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923
[continued from page I] 
most groups now active on campus. The Tartan is a newspa
per set up to relay to the students in general the programs 
of all the campus organizations. Its very existence depends 
on this need for a means of communication which can convey 
to all parts of the Tech Community the interests and pro
grams of the various groups on campus. The Tartan earnestly 
desires to fill this need. However, it can have little success 
without being given the necessary information about the 
various groups and their programs. The very lack of this type 
of information from a vast majority of the organizations on 
campus indicates a terrible feeling of apathy among the of
ficers of these organizations.
It is difficult to understand this lack of publicity ex
cept in terms of poor leadership. For example, the Tartan 
has received little or no publicity information from the 
Homecoming Committee! Likewise, the Tartan was not in
formed of the last pep rally.
The Tartan is anxious to aid any campus or campus re
lated activity in publicizing its events. It is anxious to aid 
any group in promoting interest in its affairs. But the Tartan 
cannot do this job single handedly. It must have the support 
and cooperation of the leaders and publicity chairmen of each 
campus group. For without such cooperation events will pass 
unnoticed and organizations will be inffective.
R.G.W.
Republicans
[continued from page 1] 
Later that afternoon, an official 
organizational meeting was held, 
at which John Berg was elected 
president of the CIT Young Re
publicans. Other officers are: John 
Davidson, vice-president-treasurer; John McAfee, publicity chair
man; and Tim McGuire, secretary. 
Dr. Allan H. Meltzer, assistant 
professor of economics in GSIA, 
is the faculty advisor.
A proposed constitution for the 
Young Republicans was submitted 
to the Student Congress Activities 
Committee, and the group became 
an official organization following 
the approval of the constitution at 
the October 1 meeting of Student 
Congress.
Proposed Activities 
On the agenda of proposed ac
tivities for the CIT Young Re
publicans are: a public debate
with representatives from the 
Young Democrats; an address on 
the campus by gubenatorial can
didate McGonigle or Senatorial 
candidate Scott; and a series of 
intra-club discussions on current 
political issues. Long range plans 
include attendance at the next 
Republican National Convention,
CIT Open House 
To Be October 21
Carnegie Tech will hold its an
nual Open House next Tuesday 
evening, October 21st from 7:30 
to 10:00 p.m. .
Secondary students, their par
ents, teachers, school administra
tors and the general public are 
j invited to visit Techs various 
educational departments and labj oratories.
The open house program is de; signed to give visitors a chance to 
familiarize themselves with the 
j campus and Carnegies educationj al facilities. Visitors are also in; vited to consult with faculty mem| bers about career and educational 
i opportunities.
with expenses to be met by the 
party organization.
The co-ordinator and head of all 
; Republican organizations for AlI legheny County, Vincent Campion, 
I has been notified of the formation 
j of the group at Tech. He will 
charter the organization- with the 
j Allegheny County Party authori
ties and will assist in affiliating 
the group with the National Re
publican Party.
Job facts from Du Pont
Ml
DU PONT PLANTS AND LABORATORIES 
IN 26 STATES OFFER VARIED JOB LOCATIONS 
TO TECHNICAL STUDENTS
BENEFIT PROGRAM 
MEANS ADDED INCOME
by E L. Johns 
DuPont personnel representative
EXPANSION PROGRAM 
OPENS UP MANY NEW 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
Dont forget the extras of an em
ployee benefit program when you com
pare the job offers and salaries of 
different companies. At Du Pont, these 
extras mean added income that doesnt 
always meet the eye. They include 
life insurance, group hospitalization 
and surgical coverage, accident and 
health insurance, pension plan and 
paid vacation.
In addition, the Company sponsors 
a thrift plan. After two years of serv
ice, for every dollar you invest in 
U. S. Savings Bonds the Company sets 
aside 25 cents for the purchase of 
common stock in your name. Roughly,
60,000 of our employees are now par
ticipating in this plan.
If you have specific questions on 
DuPont benefits, just send them to 
me. Ill be happy to try to answer 
them. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. 
(Inc.), Room 12421 Nemours Build
ing, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
The location of your first assignment 
with DuPont depends on your quali
fications and on the openings in your 
field, but every effort is made to match 
the job and the location with your 
preference. The chances for a success
ful match are good.
Today there are men and women 
carving out careers with DuPont at 
more than 75 plants and nearly 100 
laboratories spread throughout 26 
states. Last year the Company spent 
$220 million for new plants and for 
increased capacities at existing instal
lations. This year new plants have 
already been put into operation in 
Virginia and Michigan. Six more 
are under construction. Others are 
planned for the near future.
Most DuPont units, it is true, are 
located east of the Mississippi. Com
pany headquarters, for example, along 
with many labs and plants, are located 
in and around Wilmington, Delaware, 
which is a pleasant residential area 
within easy reach of Washington, 
Philadelphia and New York. But there 
are also plants and laboratories in 
California, Iowa, Kansas and Texas, 
and plants in Colorado, Missouri and 
Washington.
Wherever youre assigned, youll be 
proud of the DuPont Company both 
on and off the job. Youll find the 
people you work with friendly, stimu
lating, and active in the life of the 
community.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
MOVIE AVAILABLE 
FOR A.S.M.E. MEETINGS
There's a great demand for mechan
ical engineers at Du Pont. In fact, the 
ratio of mechanical to chemical en
gineers is just under 1:2. Whether 
your chosen field is research, develop
ment, plant engineering, production 
supervision or sales engineering, youll 
find a good future at DuPont.
If you would like to learn in detail 
what mechanical engineers do in the 
chemical industry, arrange to see the 
Du Pont film, Mechanical Engineering 
at DuPont. It is available at no cost 
for A.S.M.E. chapter meetings, fra
ternity house and dormitory showings. 
Write to Room 12421 Nemours Build
ing, E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. 
(Inc.), Wilmington 98, Delaware.
SEND FOR 
INFORMATION BOOKLET
Informational booklets about Du Pont are 
yours for the asking. Subjects include: 
mechanical, civil, metallurgical, chemi
cal, electrical and industrial engineers 
at DuPont; technical sales, research 
and development. Just name the subject 
that interests you and send your name 
and school address to E. I. du Pont de 
Nemours & Co. (Inc.), Room 12421 
Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER ttVING
. . THROUGH CHfMISTRY

---------------------------------------------------

T*g* CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 14, 195
Series
[continued from page 6] 
opportunity and made the most 
of it. He entered the game in the 
sixth inning and proceded to 
match Spahn pitch for pitch.
The score remained at 2-2 until 
the tenth when Gil McDougald 
opened with a four-master. Three 
singles later the Yanks had an
other run and Spahn, that 37- 
year-old veteran, was receiving a 
tremendous ovation from the ca
pacity crowd at County Stadium 
as he left the mound. That was all 
the scoring the Yanks did but 
with Duren pitching it looked 
plenty big. However, the Braves 
were not ready to quit. With two 
down they scored a run to move 
within one run of the Yankees.
Loss
Duren. although he had struck 
out 8 in four and two-third in
nings was removed in favor of 
Bob Turley, who recorded the 
final out as pinch hitter Torre 
sent a soft liner to Gil McDoug
ald. The defeat was, of course, a 
heartbreaker for Spahn. He had 
won the opener in ten innings and 
tossed a two-hitter to take the 
fourth game in New York. He 
might have made this one. too, 
had his fielding support been 
stronger.
Of all sporting events none can 
match the drama of a seventh 
game in a World Series. It is a 
whole year wrapped up in one 
game. All the money, marbles, 
and chalk are at stake. For both 
teams there is no tomorrow. The 
seventh game of the 1958 Series 
was in all respects except the 
setting a repeat performance of 
the 1957 seventh game. The teams 
were the same and the pitchers 
were the same. However, the re
sult was different. In 1957 Lew 
Burdette had shut out the 
Yankees. In 1958 the Yankees, 
led by the strong relief pitching 
of Bob Turley, who gave up but 
two hits in six and two thirds in
nings, beat the Braves 6-2 to re
turn the World Championship to 
Yankee Stadium for the 18th time.
Spahn, Burdette, Turley, Ford, 
and Duren all pitched well in the 
series. The Yankees batting stars 
were Gil McDougald, Hank 
Bauer, Bill Skowron, and Elston 
Howard. The Braves were led by 
their great young player Hank 
Aaron. In the final analysis, the 
success of the Yankees was due 
to their ability to use one of their 
old trade marks, that being the 
long ball. They hit 10 home runs 
compared to only three for the 
Braves.
The victory was especially en
joyable to Casey Stengel. Openly 
criticized for losing the 57 series 
he rallied his team to put on the 
most sensational rally in World 
Series history.
Just for the record Casey will
Dont Be Left Out!
Order Your
1959
THIS TL E
Remember
be around to defend his recently and seven world championships 
won title next year and to add to in his ten years of managing the 
his already impressive record of New York Yankees, world chamnine American League pennants pions.
UNHIPDnbetiCx NpakErNoNpU kss 
e2I3P iUES3N ISTAENUUNr
\ '$) THINKLISH TRANSLATION: Other
I ( ___ brands of cigarettes burn (with
J envy) over the matchless taste of
'a ^ucky Strike. Luckys taste is 
M honest tastethe rich, full taste of
fine tobacco. So any endorsement 
I of Luckies is bound to be a Tastimonial. Mmm!
Thmktish
Tecch
Coeedf
Thinklish: MEAN I AC
COUSINEIlUCKn 
ISTRIKEJSICK REPTILE
SPEAK THINKLISH!
Put in a good word and MAKE $25!
Heres the easiest way yet to make money! 
Just put two words together to form a new 
one. Example: slob + lobster=SLOBSTER. 
(English trans: shellfish with bad manners.) 
Well pay $25 each for the hundreds of 
Thinklish words judged bestand well 
feature many in our college ads. Send your 
Thinklish words (with translations) to Lucky 
Strike, Box 67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Enclose 
name, address, college or university and class.
Thinkti$h: ILLIGATOR
ahf5neg
When the student body wu 
in class *11 day, getting numb 
at both ends, be crazy like 
a fo*. Keep on your toes with 
NoDor. Be alert for late hour 
studying and hep on late 
date*. Safe a coflee and much 
more convenient.
CRO*e0
Thnkl>*hl CRAMPUS* Sott to Prexy HoDoz uiUl het>t your 1t ocuUte alert, too
