Fraternity Housing Plan Announced
VOL. 48No. 3 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., OCT. 5, 1954
Tartan, 27 Point Underdog9 
Beat Strong Lafayette 23-21
By Jim Lacey
The high-flying Tartans torrid offense and fighting spirit match
ed, the 94 degree heat as the Plaid eked out a well deserved 23-21 
victory over the highly regarded and highly favored Lafayette Leop
ards at Fisher stadium in Easton, Pennsylvania, before a crowd of
---------------------------------------------------?eight thousand.
Tech capitalized on their oppoFirst New Quadrangle Unit Is 
Slated For Completion In 1956
Another step toward new fraternity-dormitory facilities 
was taken la^t week. On Thursday, September 30, at 7:30 
p.m. in the auditorium of the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration, alumni and active chapter representatives 
of the 12 fraternities met* 
with personnel of the school 
to discuss changes that had
been made since the last 
meeting.
The last meeting was held on 
May 12, 1954, when the basic kieas 
of construction and finance were 
advanced. Since that time an ar
chitect, Mr. Lawrence Wolfe, was 
chosen to make further study and 
draw up preliminary plans for 
the interior and exterior.
Reasons Stated 
Mr. Wolfe explained that many
Student Council 
Will Debate School 
Spirit At Meeting
By James J. Murphy
The last meeting of Student 
Council proved very illuminating. 
Possibly a good reason for this 
statement is the apparent change 
which has come over the old goat 
of student humor, reflected from 
the president of Council down to 
various committee members. This 
change seems to be from the let 
the other fellow do it spirit to 
one of increased individual initia
tive. The incident concerning 
freshman class officers, if viewed 
in the proper light, reflects this 
change.
Along the same line of change, 
a motion was made by Mr. Paul 
Pollinger to remove from the Stu
dent Council Constitution under 
Article III, section 2, the phrase 
: reading, This Council shall Es
tablish and perpetuate school spir
it, custom, and traditions. Since 
the motion was automatically ta
bled, it was impossible to obtain 
a cross sectional view of the atti
tude of the various Council mem
bers. However, as a result of a 
short interview with Mr. Pollinger, 
it pppars that he believes there 
is a difference -between school 
spirit and respect of school. 
Views Sought
Several facts have led Mr. 
i'ollinger to the conclusion 
that the establishment and 
perpetuation of school spirit is a 
lost cause. Obv:ously there are 
people who will disagree with this 
viewpoint, and the discussion of 
the motion at next weeks meet
ing should prove interesting.- In
cidentally, Council meetings are 
open to all students, and if you 
have a particular viewpoint on 
any controversy, your presence 
will be greatly appreciated Wed
nesday at the Carnegie Union, 
Room D, at 4:30 p.m.
Apparently others beside Mr. 
Pollinger have been thinking 
about the problem of school spirit, 
and in the current season, attend
ance (or lack of it) at the home 
football games. It turns out that 
Mr. Mileys Secret Committee of 
'last week (now no longer secret) 
will investigate, among other 
things, these two problems. This 
special committee also intends to 
find a means for better cooperation 
between the various colleges in the 
city.
Bad Relations
Techs refusal to sign a pact 
outlawing sponaneous pep rallies 
on other school campuses after 
football victories, etc., caused 
much bitter feeling, since all the 
other schools in the Pittsburgh 
area had already become parties 
to this agreement.
nents mistakes and made some 
breaks of their own to pull this 
one ou of their Kilts, as one ob
server remarked. Freshman Ken 
Ficery, from nearby Wilmerding, 
who played- a terrific game, block
ed a punt by Bartlett on the La
fayette 35 yard line, returning it 
for a touchdown that put Tech 
back into the game at 14-13. Roy 
De Vries conversion knotted the 
count at 14 all. Moments later 
Frank Wenzgryn -accounted for a 
safety as he broke through the 
Lafayette line and tackled Bart
lett in the end zone. From this 
point on Tech was never headed, 
the safety providing the winning 
margin of victory.
Lafayette was quick to draw 
first blood when they picked 
up a Tech fumble in their own 
territory on the 37 yard line, and 
marched to a touchdown. The 
drive was spearheaded by the 
running of star half-back Byron 
Satterlee, who capped the drive 
with a 45 yard run to paydirt. 
Mattisons try for the extra point 
was good and the Leopards led, 
7-0.
In the second period, Tech tied 
matters as Phil Jeske engineered 
a Tartan march that ended with 
a pass to Bill Kennedy, good for
6 yards and a touchdown.
The Leopards sprang back. After 
taking a Tech punt on their own 
44 yard line, they drove to a 
touchdown as Kozinchek scored. 
This stretched the Marquis lead 
[Continutd on Page 5]
C Club Dance 
Next Friday
The Varsity C Club will hold 
its Scholarship Dance on Satur
day, October 9 in the Mens Gym 
from 9:00 to 42:00. Music will be 
provided by Benny Benacks or
chestra and vocalist.
The purpose of the dance is to 
raise money for the Freshman Var
sity Scholarship which will be 
awarded annually to th6 outstand
ing freshman Varsity athlete of 
the year. This will be the first 
year that the C Club has award
ed such a scholarship.
Tickets are $2.00 a couple and 
can be purchased from any C 
Club member. They will also be 
on sale in Skibo this week. Watch 
the bulletin board for announce
ment of the time. The dance is in
formal.
Error
Contrary to fhe announce
ment in the TARTAN last 
week there will be no fresh
man class officers. This is due 
to Student Councils action of 
last year that did away with 
all class organization.
photo by PluggeA view of the proposed fraternity units looking from Forbes 
street. The flag pole is the heighth of the Union.
New Faculty Group 
Surveys Student Life
A special committee of faculty members appointed by President 
Warner will be making a survey this fall of student life on the cam
pus. Students are going to be invited to help with the study.
The committee, appointed last spring, was charged with the 
responsibility of determining what*
policies are directing student cam
pus life and how they are working 
out in practice.
According to President Warner, 
there is one main reason for the 
appointment of this committee. 
The administration recognizes that 
the way students spend their time 
outside the classroom is important 
in their over-all development and 
should bear a relationship to what 
their studies are intended to ac
complish. Extra-curricular activi
ties, for example, should provide, 
among other things, opportunities 
for the development of leadership, 
self-reliant thinking, and active 
interest in community life, just as 
the classroom seeks to do.
Survey Committee 
When we^et a cleaixpicture of 
campus life and student activities 
as they are now, President War
ner said, we will be in a posi
tion to appraise them and perhaps 
to suggest how the students might 
supplement or alter them. If ways 
can be found to make the four 
years" of college more effective in 
the students personal and intel
lectual growth, we want to find 
them. And I think the students 
will want to give them a trial.
The survey is being made by the 
following committee: Professor
Robert M. Morgan, Chairman, 
Professor Alberta Dodson, Pro
fessor John W. Graham; Jr., Pro
fessor Elizabeth Kimberly, and 
Professor Gaylord W. Penney. The 
.formation of a student subcommit
tee is being considered.
Activities 
The committee will be taking a 
look at most of the extra-curricu
lar activities. They have already 
[Continued on Page 8]
Limited Campaign 
Set For Queen 
Of Homecoming
Once again a freshman girl will 
reign as Homecoming Queen. The 
tradition of a freshman queen has 
continued uninterrupted at Tech 
since 1948. And although many 
strong arguments had been ad
vanced for the discontinuance of 
a freshman queen, it was felt that 
these objtctions could be elmininated by a reduced campaign. The 
campaign has been cut to a pic
ture campaign as the fraternity 
dinners and publicity stunts 
absorbed far too much time espe
cially in the case of a freshman 
girl whose orientation to college 
life is not yet complete.
As in former years the candi
dates will be chosen by the fresh
men girls from among their class
mates in the department, each 
department represented in propor
tion to the number of freshman 
girls in it. The boys will elect one 
of the candidates as queen and the 
others will serve on her court.
Other traditions to be followed 
are the Carnegie Day exercises, 
at which among other things the 
Homecoming Queen is crowned by 
President Warner; Varsity Vari
eties, the sorority skit competi
tion which returned to campus last 
year after a one-vear leave of 
absence; the Friday night pep 
rally and fraternity pledge cheer 
competition; fraternity displays; 
and of course, the game with W&J 
on Saturday and the victory (or 
consolation) dance on Saturday 
night.
factors entered into the design of 
the house. The site, financial limi
tations, and the fact that any so
lution must recognize the basic 
element of competition among fra
ternities and that each must be 
completely independent were all 
considered.
The first site is on Forbes street 
between Devon road and the Car
negie Union. Four fraternities 
have already requested housing in 
the first project. These are Beta 
Theta Pi, Delta Upsilon, Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon, and Kappa Sigma.
The decision on these plans will 
affect all houses. Once the plan 
is accepted it will probably be 
the one that will be followed 
throughout the future. Present 
plans call for the next four units 
to be placed on the other side of 
the Union. When the Union is 
torn down this space could be de
veloped into a recreation area.
The new drawings are quite dif
ferent from those first offered 
with respect to outside appear
ance. The quadrangle arrangement 
is retained. The building will 
stand three stories above the 
ground and be faced mainly with 
masonry finishing. Each fraterni
ty will occupy an L shaped house 
completely apart from the other 
three units.
Complete Privacy
Each organization will have a 
private courtyard whose develop
ment and decoration is an indi
vidual groups responsibility. The 
unique feature is that no windows 
from one fraternity section look 
into another groups courtyard. 
In fact, individuals in the unit 
can not see any other unit 
while on the inside of their 
part of the building. More in
dividualism will be achieved by 
the use of a different type of fac
ing on the portions of the building 
closest to Forbes street and the 
use of large letters depicting each 
individual organizations section. 
Parking is provided both in the 
front and rear with room for 50 
cars.
Each unit is designed to house 
36 men and to provide eating facil
ities for about 50. In the proposed 
floor plans the basement will in
clude a recreation room, snack 
bar, chapter room, utilities room, 
trunk storage, toilet facilities, and 
a larder.
First Floor
! The first floor will have a large 
l living room, trophy room, and 
dining room. These are arranged 
; so that the trophy room can be 
j incorporated as part of the din
ing room or living room at any 
time.
I The living and dining rooms 
both have large glass windows fac
ing the courtyard. The living 
room also contains a large fire
place. Facilities, including a liv
ing room, bedroom and bath room, 
are planned for a house mother.
The second and third floors will 
be made up of study rooms. Each 
floor, as proposed, has nine study 
rooms which will accomodate two 
men each. The study rooms also 
are divided, and one area will be 
used for study while the other 
will serve as a sleeping area for 
the two men. The second and 
third floors also include some stor
age area and toilet facilities.
Future Action
The fraternities were supplied 
[Continued on page 8]
Queen
Nominations for freshman 
Homecoming Queen will be 
held on Monday, October 18 at 
4:30 p.m. in Margaret Morri
son. All freshman girls are 
asked to attend.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 5, 1954
HELLO ... TO ALL THE FAIR SEX OF CARNEGIE TECH! 
Heres a new column written especially for you . . . we hope 
it will be both entertaining and useful to you in the months to 
come. * 
First ... a little story story with all the freshman in mind. 
Last September, Mother and I in*
Morewood Opens 
New Rec Room 
For Women, Dates
This year Morewood Gardens is 
offering a new attraction in addi
tion to the influx of freshman girls 
the Recreation Room situated 
under the dining room. It is to be 
for the use of all Morewood girls 
and their guests, males included.
The Rec Room, a project of the 
Womens Dorm Council, can ac
commodate 450 people and is 
equipped with many features, one 
of which is a ping-pong table 
where you can generally see bud
ding experts practicing as well as 
| ordinary folk just having a good 
time.
Probably one of the most start
ling innovations is the kitchen 
where food service will soon be 
centered. When it starts, three 
girls from Morewood will sell hot 
dogs, milk shakes, ice cream, milk, 
and cold cuts. The Dorm Council 
is also in the process of buying 
records so that dancing can be 
held.
The' hours of the Recreation 
Room are from noon until 6:00 
p.m. for Morewood girls only and 
6:00 p.m. until midnight for girls 
as well as their dates on week 
days; and on Saturdays and Sun
days from noon until midnight for 
girls and their dates.
our best bib and tucker made a 
trip to the stores with reams of 
paper listing my needs. In 
those days there was such a 
thing as store delivery service 
and as a result we had nothing to 
show for our hours of torture ex
cept blisters and the fateful bills 
. . . After Daddy regained con
sciousness, we assured him that 
we hadnt gotten anything that 
wasnt entirely . . . well, almost 
. . . necessary ... So, just like you 
I arrived at Tech, bag and bag
gage . . . each one full of things 
the girls in the college shops had 
said were all the rage ... as 
well as basic costumes that would 
go anywhere. That was just my 
problem though, where wTould 
each go?
When and Where
I certainly didnt know and no 
one else seemed to either. In our 
frantic pre-school rush we had 
neglected to find out what was 
worn when at Carnegie Tech. We 
vaguely remembered reading in 
Mademoiselle that at Smith, the 
girls wear Bermuda shorts to class 
and cocktail dresses lo Saturday 
night teas. But this information 
obviously didnt help us a bit.
Basically, the purpose of this 
column is to give you some idea 
of what sort of dress to expect at 
various occasions, as concluded 
from our own experience. Ill be 
around later in the year to give 
you tips on latest styles and fads 
. . * and information on dress for 
Homecoming, winter formals, etc.
Faddish
This year the outstanding fad is 
a pair of Bermuda shorts. And 
may I say . . . you lucky tall girls 
. . . they can be worn with mantailored shirts with button down 
collars, or sweaters. Either knee 
socks or the calf-length woolens 
are perfect with them. Fellows 
often ask why we like Bermudas.
I think youll all agre that theyre 
far neater than blue jeans, just 
as comfortable . . . and are darn 
cute, too. Bermuda skirts are an
other story. They are quite popu
lar on eastern womens college 
campuses, but havent made their 
name here at Tech, although there 
are a few brave souls wearing 
them.
Date Press
Saturday nights at fraternity 
houses find us in our dressy wpols, 
wool jerseys,* evening sweaters, 
and jumpers. Casual wear is the 
keyrfote at Tech, and cocktail 
dresses, taffetas, velvets, and net 
are kept for fraternity formals 
and cocktail parties.
Originality is expressed to a 
high degree here at Tech, with our 
Fine Arts students usually lead
ing the way . . . Recent styles 
copied from them are the ropes j
of beads that are so pretty with a 
pastel sweater . . . the unusual 
color combinations; tawny and 
gold . , . brown and black.
FASHION FAD
Drama Dept.
Is Praised
Earl Wilson, who has perhaps 50 
million readers here and abroad, 
included in his Post-Gazette col
umn of Monday, September 27, 
some publicity for the Tech drama 
department.
He began by commenting that 
Bill Eythes new show, Between 
Friends, may very well turn out 
to look like a Carnegie Tech 
alumni meeting. For Eythe, co
producer of the new show, is a 
graduate of the Tech drama school. 
In fact, he told Mr. Wilson that 
when the show opens in New York, 
the leading lady will probably be 
a graduate of Carnegie Tech.
There are several Tech drama 
grads in New York at the present. 
Polly Rowles is on the Jamie 
show; Grey Lockwood is a direc
tor with NBC and Court Steen is 
with ABC. Their success is proba
bly due to feelings such as those 
expressed by Producer Herman 
Shumlin when he told Mr. Eythe 
that the only good people on 
Broadway were those who came 
from Carnegie Tech, because they 
were really prepared.
photo by ,Toia
Above is shown a view of the new recreation room in the base
ment of Morewood Gardens.
Every dog must have his day, which is to say by way of an in
appropriate comparison that it is now time for the women on this 
campus to step into the spotlight.
So gals, or lassies,or ladies as you wish here is a column devoted 
to the fact and fancy that catches your ear over the Skibo table, 
through the Morewood lounge, or in the penny arcade late at 
night. Who married who, whos engaged towhom, whats new in the 
dorms, in Maggie Murph, with our budding actressesin fact, just 
about anything that is strictly for women.
Hows it sound? Were open for suggestions; in fact, the more the 
merner. If youve got some fact or fancy to contribute, some ideas of 
any kind, just let Jo Forsythe know about them.
Since its probably one of the most interesting topics of con
versation, lets start out with the weddings first. Most of the couples 
had summer weddingssome of the guys and gals have graduatedothers are back on campus. Theres Lynn Miller and Ed Davis, Nancy 
Gregory and Roy DeVries, Sissy Noel and Paul Smith, Becky McNutt 
and Lowell Steinbrenner, Dotty Dugan and Chuck Walsh, Pat Gray 
and Billy Becker . . . Marilyn Franklin and Bob Kiefer, Mary Dabney 
and Ben Schnelle, Nancy Wallis and Neil Carpenter.* * *
For a start, weve already heard of several engagements. For 
instanceBarb Eneix and Fred Hoffmaster, Dolly Mitchell and George 
Billy, Pat Naugle and Chuck Hull . . . -Kay Bromby and J. Gene 
Carlisle, Lin Rushton and Jim McEwen, Doris Caplan and Marty 
Stein, Joan Maxwell and Chuck Brooks.
Where will this column stand on pinnings? As far away as pos
sible, if you dont mind. Things might get rather complicated, to 
say the least.
* * *
Things are really buzzing at Morewood Gardensin addition, 
that is, to serenades by Alpha Tau Omega, Beta Theta Pi, and Delta 
Upsilon. The office of the Dean of Women reports that, for the first 
time, the dormitory is filled to capacity. There has been a waiting list 
all summer but, due to transfers and cancellations, everything came 
out even. In fact, during the first week of school, several girls were 
temporarily quartered in the infirmary.
Speaking of the infirmary, Mrs. E. Mitchell is no longer with the 
girls. Miss Bess Haid, an exteremely competent and kind nurse, is 
now watchdog of Morewoods health.
* * *
Right off, a tribute to the officers and members of the active
Womens Dorm Council: Betsy Leonard, president; Freida Greenberg,
vice president; Carol Sechler, secretary-treasurer.
Its now a fact (several weeks ago only a rumor) that coffeedrinkers have a new machine serving them in the MG basement 
cafeteria. It offers a different brand of coffee with reall-ll-ll 
cream! An added inducement for stay-up-laters: hot chocolate, which 
may appeal to the tea-totalers. .
* * *
As if fraternity row were not already aware of the fact, the gals 
have had their first fire drilland have conscientiously been promised 
one every month throughout the year.
APPROVED
by faculty and students
Now! Write legible papers 
,and notes, because 
[paper-Mate never smears, ^ 
blots or clogs 1 Guaranteed 
leak-proof. No stoppagesJ 
more than 70,000 words 
.without refilling.
for smoother, easier, 
faster writing
 >4 Fapr-M*U Co., |at.. Cui*c City, dan..

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 5, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
Drama Department 
Presents Lysistrata
by Marjo King
Students of the drama department, directed by Professor Charles 
Werner Moore, are preparing for the forthcoming production of 
Charles Holts adaptation of Aristophanes Lysistrata.
The play will be presented in the Little Theater at 8:15 p. m. from
October 23 to November 3*, with*-----------------------------------------;---------
the exception of October 26,
which is open house day. A mat
inee will be given at 2:30 p.m. on 
October 29 only.
Lysistrata, a comedy in three 
acts written by the Greek poet 
and playwright Aristophanes in 
the fourth century B.C., has been 
adapted to the modem stage by 
Charles Holt, contemporary poet 
and teacher at the University of 
Kansas. This selection from the 
Greek plays is being done in the 
drama departments tradition of 
presenting every year plays of all 
styles and ages.
Double Cast
The double cast will include 
Jeanne Dickinson as Lysistrata, 
Sylvia Dante and Sally Breskin as 
Cleonice, Joyce Womack and 
Francesca DiMatteo as Myrinna 
and Jeanne Allen as Lampito. 
Taking the part of the jfirst Old 
Woman is Diana Wray, Nancy 
Cole as the Second Old Woman, 
Shirley Mendonsa as the Third 
Old Woman, Rose Marie Schneider 
as the First Young Woman and 
Rosalyn Newport as the Second 
Young Woman. The Young Wom
en of Sparta will be portrayed by 
Frankie Jungk and Corky Teitel, the Women of Anaygra by 
Dottie Walsh and Pat Clary and 
the Women of Athens by Nancy 
Blumenthal and Judy Launt.
The men in the cast are Larry 
Bloom and Ray Bevilaqua as Probulos, Arnold Brockman as Philurgus and George Peppard and 
Dan Walker as Kinesias. John 
Conboy plays the role of the First 
Old Man, Richard Brown as the 
Second Old Man, Le Roy Miller 
as the Third Old Man, and Dan 
Walker and George Peppard as 
the Spartan. The six young men 
of Greece will include Jim Goldswigg, Charles Walsh, John Bos, 
Byron Ringland and Morrie 
Pierce.
Carnegie Tech students may 
pick up free tickets October 14 at 
Room 100 in the Fine Arts Build
ing, upon presentation of their 
I.D. cards.
Architect Frosh 
To Be Dropped 
By ROTC Dept?
The ROTC department has put 
a new policy into effect this se
mester which calls for the drop
ping from ROTC ranks freshmen 
enrolled in architecture. They will 
be re-admitted in their sophomore 
year.
This move was necessitated by 
the fact that all architecture stu
dents are enrolled under a fiveyear plan and therefore complete 
the four year ROTC program be
fore becoming seniors. Such a sit
uation, the ROTC department de
clares, has in the past caused 
those affected to be placed under 
a considerable burden by the 
necessity of attending ROTC 
classes at irregular times to make 
up for those missed while attend
ing architecture classes which ran 
simultaneously.
It emphasized that the new pol
icy would in no way affect the 
architects present selective serv
ice status, since the present law 
declares that all college students 
ai*e entitled to at least one year 
of deferment. At the end of this 
year, those enrolling in the ROTC 
course may, upon agreeing to sev
eral obligations, obtain further 
deferment in order to complete 
their formal education.
This is the first year that such 
a plan has been piit into effect and 
the administration is hopeful that 
it will eliminate much of the con
fusion they have found prevalent 
under the old method of admitting 
architecture students into the 
ROTC program during their fresh
man year.
Victorious Frosh 
Defeat Sophs, 2-1
The freshman activities of the 
past week, which included the 
Frosh Hop on Friday evening and 
the Push Ball brawl on Saturday, 
were climaxed this morning by 
the difficult and comprehensive 
Traditions Exam. It is quite possi
ble that this torturous test was 
stiffened at the last minute due 
to the fact that the freshmen up
set the sophomores in the pattycake contest on Saturday. At any 
rate, those who took the exam 
probably were wishing that they 
had skiped it, as a few wayward 
souls did.
The Frosh Hop on Friday in 
Thistle Hall was a success despite 
the heat. A near capacity crowd 
danced to the music of Joe Harris 
and his orchestra. Besides the 
slow music, his repertoire included 
the Bunny Hop, the Mexican Hat 
dance, and various Latin-American rhythms, As a mater of fact, 
the dance attracted several upper
classmen in addition to the crowd 
of freshmen, and everyone had a 
good time.
Push Ball Victory 
*In the Push Ball game, a gallant 
but undermanned sophomore 
team was simply overpowered by 
the tremendous bench strength of 
the determined freshmen. Only 18 
sophs reported for the team, while 
approximately 60 eager frosh 
fought for the privilege of playing 
on their side. They struck quickly 
for two scores in the first half 
but were held scoreless in the sec
ond half.
The sophomores managed to 
tally a somewhat dubious point 
in the closing minutes of the riot, 
but the authenticity of this score 
was never determined because 
only one referee was around at 
the time. Rumors are that this 
poor defenseless soul took an unwiling bath immediately after the 
game. The results of this contest 
indicate that the disappearance of 
the dink is now official.
Open House
In observance of Pennsyl
vania Week, which will be 
celebrated the week of Octo
ber 10-17, Woodville State 
Hospital will hold Open House 
on Sunday, October 10, from 
11 a.m. until 4 p.m.
Dr. R. J. Phifer, Superin
tendent, extends a cordial in
vitation to every one to visit 
the hospital on Sunday, Octo
ber 10. The following program 
will be offered: exhibits, edu
cational movie, bus tour, and 
refreshments.
LET'S GO TO
ISA L YS
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasly Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 FORBES STREET
SQUIRREL HILL
3714 FORBES STREET
OAKLAND
Maint Plant:
3380 BLVD. of the ALLIES
Assembly
There will be a Religious 
Orientation meeting for all 
freshmen in the Fine Arts 
Theater, Tuesday, October 12 
at 11:30 a.m. Associate Pro
fessor of history, Norman H. 
Davis, will be the speaker. 
Also present will be represen
tatives of the three major 
faiths, who will explain the re
ligious organizations on cam
pus and introduce the officers 
of each.
Tech Deficit 
Over $292,000
There is a gap of approximate
ly $292,543 between estimated ex
penditures and income in the 
budget for the school year. This 
estimated deficit is over $20,000 
higher than it was for the previ
ous year.
Despite $167,450 increase in the 
estimated assured income of $3,- 
433,350, expenditures, exclusive 
of the Industrial Administration 
School, are estimated at $3,725,893, 
an increase of $187,279 over last 
year.
The previous years deficit was 
overcome by gifts and grants 
from industry, alumni, founda
tions and other agencies, and 
budget savings. From these 
sources, President Warner ex
plained, we obtained enough to 
overcome the deficit and to the 
end the year with an income of 
$6,700 over expenditures. This 
was not quite as good as the year 
before, when the final figure was 
$5,400 in the black, but I am 
happy enough to see even a small 
black figure instead of a red one. 
Scholarship Aid
Dr. Warner also noted that 
scholarship aid had tripled since 
the school year of 1939-40. Schol
arship aid in the 1953-54 year 
amounted to $180,046. At the 
same time, he commented, we 
have been able to greatly reduce 
the amount of current income de
voted to the scholarship program. 
Carnegie Tech is able to do this 
because the many new scholar
ships established by industry and 
foundations and because of in
creasing alumni contributions for 
scholarship purposes.
Carnegie Techs annual alumni 
giving for 1953-54 amounted to 
$110,000 which was three times 
the total of only four years ago.
Cloderiek
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS 
 TRY US FIRST 
Oakland Hardware3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
by McDonald
Campus Separates
from
Tots and Tweeds
5424 Walnut St., Shadyside
giving friends, rela- ti res and classmates. Printed on best quality_____________ silk - finish2H" x double weight pa-    per.
Send on dollar with any size pic* ture. Your original returned unharmed. Minimum order 20 wallet photos from one pose. Satisfaction guaranteed or your money back. %
.pittarci
MAIL TO-DAY GO.
P. O. Box 1112, Altoona, Pa.
Enclosed k f......for..
Add re _______________
CM? Xoite< >9ate
55S
For Your ARROW Shirts and Ties
FRANK MEN'S WEAR
5816 FORBES STREET HA 1-9600 SQUIRREL HILL 
Open Tuesday and Saturday evenings
Color + collar + comfort =
The right ARROW Shirt for you!
You dont have to be a math major to figure it out. Arrow 
shirts offer you so many fine colors and patterns in your 
favorite collars, that its a breeze to have plenty of style 
in your wardrobe.
Shown above are, the Sussex button-down in a neat tattersol check, and the smooth Radnor E in solid colors. 
Both $5.00. The goodlooking Arrow Sussex in a well-bred 
stripe, $4.50. Theyre comfortable, correct ** thrifty too.
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  CASUAL WEAR
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Fase 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 5, 1954
Editorial
School Spirit?
It is interesting to note that a motion is 
now before Student Council (see story on 
page one) that calls for the striking of an 
article from the constitution of this organi
zation. The article in question charges Stu
dent Council with the responsibility of pro
moting school spirit.
The phrase school spirit seems to be 
about the most overworked one on campus.
It is usually used in the negative. A group not 
having this desirable attribute may be one 
which does not attend functions and events 
around campus, such as athletic contests, par
ticipate in extra-curricular activities, or take 
an active interest in school except in attending 
classes. This leads one to wonder if the phrase 
is not just a catch all for actions or lack of 
actions that cannot be explained in more con
crete terms.
Some people may wonder if this thing 
called school spirit is necessary. Does there 
actually have to be an interest in the school 
and the activities it offers? The academic 
program would not suffer appreciably if there 
was no interest outside the classroom. But 
many other facets of the educational system 
would. The idea that Tech offers a wellrounded education outside the classroom as 
well as it would not be present. With no 
interest today much less could be expected of us as alumni. 
The school depends upon the alumni for financial support 
and help in acquiring and interviewing prospective students.
Once that it has been proven school spirit is essential or at 
least desirable, the thing to do is see how much we have here 
at Carnegie Tech. Except for the fraternities there are very few
organizations which have more than ten per cent of their mem
bers working in close harmony. Perhaps the best example is 
departmental activity. Since most of the students are here for 
a technical education it would seem there would be much de
partmental activity outside the classroom. This is not the general 
case, however.
The attendance at athletic contests is not wrhat most 
people would expect. Winning and championship teams do 
not arouse much interest. Last year 14 per cent contributed 
to the alumni fund. Tech is a young school and this figure 
is much higher than that of four years ago, it is still much 
smaller than one would expect.
Once one sees that school spirit does have value and 
seems to be lacking here at Tech the next step is to see why. 
There have been many explanations advancd. Many say 
the commuter element has too many attachments elsewhere. 
Others contend the nature of the school itself is not con
ducive to school spirit. It may well be that the program 
offered at Tech is not the right one or the school goes about 
it in the wrong manner.
The school administration has the responsibility to see 
that an adequate activities program is provided for the stu
dents. This does not mean the administration should com
pletely or particularly control the extra-curricular and ac
tivities program but it does mean theyshould give the stu
dents aid and assistance in finding the best program for the 
school and students at Carnegie Tech.
Instead of legislating responsibility away or going ahead 
and trying to promote school spirit, the logical action is for 
Council to stop and take stock of the situation to see if 
they are going about it in the best manner. The committee 
of faculty under Dr. Morgan should be able to help answer 
many questions on this subject when they come out with 
their report.
Over The Skibo 
Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
A new craze has hit the mens dorms. Horror 
comic books are the latest rage with parody com
ics as sideline reading. These books didnt catch on 
until Readers Digest and other such magazines 
started a campaign to rid the market of such ma
terial. However, before you rush out to get Amer
icas contribution to classical literature, let me give 
you some advice. Poe is gory, Conan Doyle is mor
bid, but these-are awful.
* * * *
Heres the greatest. According to latest statis
tics in the 1954 Alumnae, the typical American 
goes to bed at 10 p. m. and gets up between 6 and
7 a. m. I cant remember the last time I hit the hay 
that early. Guess they never heard of midnite 
bridge sessions or, as ridiculous as it seems, study
ing til 3:00 in the morning. Oh to be a typical 
American! *
* * * *
Little quickie: All the students that smoke are 
complaining about the new no smoking signs in all 
the rooms. Instructor arent enjoying it either, es
pecially when they unconsciously reach for that 
mid-lecture butt . . . Complaints are coming in con
cerning the littering of the Fine Arts lawn and the 
parking lot with lunch bags and apple cores.
Seems some of the commuters are eating their 
lunch there and not bothing to throw the scraps in 
proper receptables.
* * * *
When the football team started practice in the 
bowl in early September they were greeted by a 
seven applicants for mascot. It seems that the quiet 
atmosphere of the bowl appealed to a mother rab
bit and her six little ones so they established liv
ing quarters on the 25 yard line. The team, not 
wanting to disturb the happy home, set up three 
blocking dummies around the nest every day before 
practice. This was fine for about three weeks, but 
the bunnies got tired of hearing thundering feet 
rushing by their front door, so they left. Rabbits 
are like many people; theyre just not appreciative.
The Observer
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hours MUseum 3-2312, for advertising and subscription rates 
call MUseum 2-3990. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carn/gie Institute of Te< hnology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ........................................................................................................Paul Carmichael
Executive Editor ..............................................................................................................Wilson Sick
Business Manager ............................................................................................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor ................................................................................................................Jo Forsythe
News Editor ................................................................................................................June Sochatoff
Sports Editor ...............................................................................................................Lenny Feldman
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate 
of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
publisher representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions $1.10 
per year.
Opposites dont always attract. The generaliza^ 
tion collapses when we dispense with sex and mag
nets. The CIT social scene is a case in point.
Upperclassmen seem to regard the social 
chasm within the CIT student body as something 
to be accepted.. At least they approach the situa
tion with a disarming matter-of-factness that re-*y 
fleets awareness and disregard for the problem at 
the same time. Physically, Fine Arts and Science 
work side-by-side. Intelleceually, they object to 
any unnecessary association with each other.
The scientist and the liberal artist can be 
considered opposite in their respect for academic 
lawcreativity within a framework of principle vs. 
free expression. Historically, the social consequences 
of both philosophies have produced well-integrated 
civilizations. Unfortunately, the CIT scene has not 
reaped the benefits of this fruitful and mature co-.j 
operation.
Look into Skibo at mealtimes, for instance. Fine 
Arts chats by choice at their half-dozen tables ad
jacent to the cashiers. Engineers scatter elsewhere 
perhaps to fraternity tables in the distanst reaches 
of Skibo. The situation never changes.The pat
tern is chronic.
Campus fashions can be related to the social 
chasm. The girls: skirts and saddles vs. grey-flan
nel slacks and elfish felt wrap-arounds. The guys: 
loafers and sport shirts vs. sandals and turtle neck ^ 
sweaters. (Listen to campus comment in re the dif
ferences in campus dress; its actually a very pop
ular topic.)
How many liberal artists seek membership 
withinor are even considered bythe schools 
social, service, and honorary organizations? (Citcom, A Phi O, Pi DE, for instance.) Any at all?
Fine Arts produces a very fine Beaux Arts Ball; 
Science produces an equally successful Spring Car
nival. Any real intra-school production coopera) 
tion within each event stems from strictly pro
fessional interest, however. That is, E.E.s will 
watch a Fine Arts switchboard, and Fine Arts will 
paint signs for Carnivalat a price.
True, both camps collaborate to produce a major 
campus publications, but again, cooperation has its 
roots in opportunity to gain professional experi
ence. Banquets and social gatherings promoted by 
the publications seldom attract more than a non
representative few of the Fine Arts staffs.
Exceptions exist, of course, but nevertheless the^ 
social dichotomy seems as serious as it is obvious. 
Students here on campus perhaps are encounter
ing unusual personality differences for the first 
times in their lives. The shock occasioned by 
unusual and competitive social ideas might bring 
about a desire to appraise their proponents from 
a distancelike a first grader cautiously learning 
to know his classmates. The variety of explanations, 
as nature would have it, might be infinite.
At any rate, the presidents committee currently 
investigating student social activity on the campus) 
might consider the unfortunate Fine Arts-Science 
problem. It is very real.
A campus is a culture in a nutshell. Observe 
it. What happens on our campus happens in our 
nation. But here it happens faster.
Upholds Delay
Editor, the Tartan,
In your column Over The Skibo Table (Tar
tan September 28, 1954) the Kiltie Band was critisized for not appearing at the Westminster game. 
We would like to make the following statement: 
The Kiltie Band started its practices after the 
beginning of the fall semester. Due to the fact that 
a great number of freshmen have joined the band, 
the band was unable to. reach a satisfactory standard 
with such a short time of practice available. The 
band decided, thereupon, to delay its first appear
ance until such a standard could be reached; and 
instead devoted last Saturday afternoon to prac
ticing.
We hope to give our encouragement to the 
Tartans in their future games.
In behalf of the Kiltie Band, 
Wm. Watso, Manager 
Philip Stein, Member.
WKCT 
SCHEDULE
October 5 
7:00Sign On, News 
7:15Adventures in 
Research 
7:30Music 
8:00The Masters 
Perform 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off
October 6 
7:00Sign On, News 
7:15Campus Hilights 
7:30Montovani 
8:00Music 
9:00Musical World 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:00Sign Off
October 7 
7:00Sign On, News 
7:15Serenade in Blue 
7:30Music 
8:30French Master - 
works 
9:00Musical World 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off
October 8
7:00Sign On, News 
7:15Navy Star Time 
7:30Music 
9:00Musical World 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05TGIF Club 
11:55Sign Off
October 10 
1:45Sign On, News 
2:00WRCT Concert 
Hall
3:00Sunday Pops 
Concert 
5:00Proudly We Hail 
5:30Music 
6:00News 
6:05Music 
8:00News 
8:05WRCT Sym- .
phony Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off
October 11 
7:00Sign On, News 
7:15*Campus Hilights 
7:30Music 
9:00Musical World 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off

---------------------------------------------------

I STARTED
smoking forsmt
2.4 YEARS AGO. 
YOU CANT BEAT 
'EM FOR FLAVOR
-AND BELIEVE 
ME,CAMELS ARE 
REALLY MILO 1 "
REAR ADMIRAL, U.S.N. (Ret.)
Commander of the first Nautilus, submarine which sank Japanese carrier at Battle of Midway; awarded three Navy Crosses; today, a Baltimore chemical company executive.
Football[Continued, from Page 1] 
to 14-7, which they held as the 
gun went off for the first half.
As soon as the second half got 
underway, Frosh Ficery went to 
work and evened things up when 
he blocked Bartletts punt. Later 
in the period Wenzgryn stopped 
Bartlett in the end zone for a 
safety and the margin of victory. 
The Tartans then scored again on 
a pass from Eddie Miller to Art 
McGuigan. Lafayettes final tally 
came late in the fourth period as 
Kozinchek again went over for 
the score, this time from the two, 
but that only narrowed the count 
to 23-21, at which point the Tar
tan line took charge of matters 
and stopped the Lafayette Leop
ards in their tracks as the final 
gun went off.
The battling, but lighter Tech 
line outplayed the heavier Leop
ard line. Tartan defenders caused 
Lafayette to fumble eight times as 
they hit the Frenchy ballcarriers 
hard on every tackle. Even though 
Lafayette gained 257 yards on the 
ground, Tech halted the drives 
when they had their backs to the 
wall/ The Tech squad only gained 
130 yards on the ground, but the 
difference in punt returns tells the 
story. Tech returned two Lafay
ette punts for 64 yards while the 
Marquis didnt return any of the 
five punts from Brown and Miller, 
who were booting high spirals that 
allowed the line time to get down 
under the ball.
Techs passing game improved 
as Phil Jeske and Eddie Miller 
were hitting their marks, complet
ing six out of eleven tries good for 
95 yards.
Once again Eddie Miller shined 
both on defense and offense. He 
broke into the open twice only to 
slip and be brought down from 
behind, while his favorite around 
end play gained much needed 
yardage. Batting down enemy 
passes and tackling the Leopard 
runners, Eddie was also outstand
ing on defense.
But one cannot single out any 
one player as directly responsible 
for the Plaid victory at Easton, as 
the team played great football and 
could do no wrong. It truly was a 
team victory.
Next Saturday Tech will try to 
make it three straight as they 
make their home debut against 
the John Hopkins Blue Jays at 
Forbes field. No game can be 
taken lightly, but John Bridges 
boys dont have much to keep the 
Tartan Plaid from making their 
home on paydirt.
utes. The next four across the
line were Tech runners. They
were Mai Gillies, 21:4; Hap Mc
Donald, 21:18; Bill Bryant, 21:19; 
and James Flynn, 22:41.
Bill Hollowoy of Jeanette was 
sixth in 23:18. *
Although Geneva was handily 
beaten by Pitt last Saturday, 15- 
50, they should provide stiff com
petition for the Plaid runners, who 
will face their stiffest test this
season when they play host to the 
Mountaineers from West Virginia, 
Tuesday, Oct. 12. This meet will 
take place in Schenlty park at 
4:00 p. m. If the Tech Harriers 
can slip by the boys from the 
hills, they may well be on their 
way to their third straight un
beaten season.
54 Thistles
1. Final distribution of year
books will take place in 
Black Cat lounge on Wed
nesday and Thursday 11:30 
to 1:30.
2. Bring receipts and be pre
pared to pay any balance 
due.
3. Graduated seniors who 
wish to pick up yearbooks 
instead of having them 
mailed home please notify 
Nancy Davis c/o Box 259.
Baker and Staff
To the ur ettered observer, a 
football coach is a large brown, 
nondescript mass which stalks 
restlessly in front of, and occasion
ally sits upon the players bench. 
Further investigation shows, how
ever, that this little known ani
mal resembles very closely a hu
man being. CITs coaching staff, 
in fact, actually consists of five 
real men and a trainer (also a hu
man), who double as normal citi
zens when not leading the Tartans
A Product of Pitt
Dr. Eddie Baker, head coach, is 
a practicing dentist, loading his 
Carnegie chores, which consume 
about 25 hours per week, on top 
of a full office schedule which 
shortens only one hour a day dur
ing the grid season. Dr. Baker is a 
product of that tall grey institution 
on the other side of Forbes street, 
having received his dentistry de
gree there in 1932. He served as 
regular quarterback for the Panth
ers of 1928-30 under the late Jock 
Sutherland, and led the Pitt war
riors, which also included present 
Carnegie line coach Eddie Hirshberg as starting end, to the Rose 
Bowl in 1930. Following his play
ing days,, Baker served as backfield coach under Sutherland until 
1937 when he first came to Carne
gie.
From 1937 to 39 Dr. Baker was 
CIT coach Bill Kerns assistant 
working as backfield mentor for 
the 1938 Sugar Bowl team. Tak
ing over the head coaching duties 
in 1940 and continuing for three 
years, he piloted a de-emphasized 
Carnegie eleven to seven victories 
and 15 defeats against such titans 
as Notre Dame, Pitt, and Holy 
Cross. In fact, in 1942 the light 
(average lineman: 180 lb.) Tartan 
squad held Pitt to a 6-6 tie for 
three quarters before finally bow
ing to the Panthers.
Coach Baker assumed his pres
ent post at Carnegie in 1949.
Eddie Hirshberg, also a Pitt 
alumnus, was hired the same time 
[Continued on Page 6]
SUCCESS STORY...
SUCCESS STORY
Camels  Americas most popular cigarette .,.by far!
AND HOW IT STARTED...
VOL.48 N4o3TL8U says: I prepped 
at Baltimore Polytech, fou.d I liked 
math and electrical engineeringrequired subjects for a Navy career.
But it was getting licked in lacrosse 
by the Navy plebes that got me 
interested in Annapolis. My break on 
an appointment came when two 
ahead of me failed 
on exams. I worked 
hard to graduate, 
got into sub class, 
did some teaching, 
eventually earned my 
own sub command.
R. J. Reynolds Tobcco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.
Start smoking Camels
yourself. Make the 30-Day
Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only 
Camels for 30 days - see for yourself 
why Camels cool mildness and rich 
flavor agree with more people than 
any other cigarette!CAMELS
AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!
Tuesday, October 5, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
ES,,VCS51 
9hee e5V,i 
Ve g-8fle5flNVEyl 
-UOn4 ea5 rVe5
O4ll itea5frVC1 
Tech scoring second touchdownFicery going over for the score.
Tech Harriers 
Victory Skein 
Extended to 18
a5 Viihie51 
N. Tn4U S-f.Us 
ea5 itEE5iidtr 1938 SEASON 
With their eighteenth win in a 
tucked away, the Tech 
will be out for number 
19 this Friday afternoon at 4:00 
p. m., when they meet Geneva at 
Beaver Falls.
Techs distance men opened the 
season last Saturday by defeating 
the Jeanette Harriers, 21-37, over 
Tartans 3.8 mile course, al
though Techs coach Bob Carman, 
running for the visitors, crossed 
the finish line first.
Carmens time was 20.18 min---------------------------------------------------

P**e GCARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 5, 1954
When you pause... make it count... have a Coke
My job is to help solve problems 
of noise and other interference on tele
phone lines due to power interference. 
Inductive co-ordination is the technical 
term for the work.
Bob Geminder, EE, 
Wins Second Contest
The second football contest was 
won by Bob Geminder, sophomore 
electrical from Pittsburgh. Though 
Bob did not pick Tech to win last 
weeks encounter with Lafayette, 
he.was not alone. Only four of all 
the entries received picked Tech 
to win Saturday, with the rest con
ceding the game to Lafayette, 
most of them by lopsided scores. 
The upsets by Purdue over Notre 
Dame and Army over Michigan 
stumped everyone of the experts.
Football
1. Home football games will 
be played at Forbes Field. 
Kickoff 1:30 except Home
coming Game 2:00.
2. Student entrance will be 
through gates No. 30 and 
31, located on Bouquet 
street near main entrance.
3. Admission to games free, 
upon presentation of regis
tration card. Do not allow 
your card to be used by any 
person but yourself, as it 
may be lifted at the gate.
4. Sections reserved for stu
dents are Nos. 5-6-7 on the 
first floor. Please observe 
this request, as the cheer
leaders can get better re
sults in cheering if the stu
dents are located in a 
group.
5. The visiting teams are our 
guests; treat them accord
ingly at all times.
6. The Kiltie Band will be 
seated in the front part of 
section 8.
Schedule
Oct, 2Lafayette 
Oct. 9John Hopkins 
Oct. 16Geneva 
Oct. 23Edinboro 
Nov. 6W & J 
Nov, 13------Lehigh
Coaches[Continued from Page 5] 
that Coach Baker assumed his 
present position. He was captain 
of the 1931 Panthers, and served on 
the coaching staffs of Pitt, Scran
ton, Dartmouth, West Virginia, and 
Yale before coming to Tech.
A Tartan Since 19
The sole Carnegie aulumnus on 
the Tartan coaching squad is A1 
Irwin, who entered CIT in 1919 as 
a student of management and has 
served in some capacity for the 
athletic department ever since. 
Mr. Irwin is one of those rare per
sons who has played five years of 
college football as a legally eligible 
player, putting in one year at W&J 
under army sponsorship and four 
seasons for the Tartans.
A former halfback for the Uni
versity of Chicago under the great 
Amos Alonzo Stag, Walt Burns, a 
professional player for seven years, 
is the fourth member of the coach
ing staff. The president of a whole
sale grocery business, Walt is a 
long-standing Carnegie rooter who 
coaches for the love of it. He has 
been around Carnegie football 
since the days of Judge Steffen, 
and has seen all but four of the 
Tech contests since 1920. He was 
an untitled coach, scout, confidant, 
tutor and advisor until 1946 when 
he was officially named backfield 
coach under Bill Donohoe.
Dr. Jesse Quatse, another Pitt 
man who has returned to football 
via the Carnegie Tech squads, 
rounds the quintet of coaches, 
while pursuing his dental degree 
at Pitt, Jesse was a star lineman 
on the football squad and an AllAmerican in 1931. After his career 
in college, he ventured into pro 
ranks and played for both the 
New York Giants and the Green 
Bay Packers. Before coming to 
Tech in 1952 as an assistant coach, 
Jesse spent some time on the Pitt 
coaching staff.
All important in sports is the 
trainer. Walt Willoughby serves 
in that capacity for CIT when not 
pursuing the printing business, 
Carnegies trainer for all intercol
legiate sports, and occasionally for 
intramurals, he finds that football 
produces the greatest number of 
injuries, as might be expected but
Game Statistics
LAFAYETTE CARNEGIE
1 4.................... First downs ............................ 9
257.........  Yards rushing ....................130
9.............Passes attempted ........ 11
3................Passes completed ........ 6
2............. Passes intercepted ........... 147.................. Yards passing .................. 95
2.......................... Punts ........................... 5
16.................. Average punts ............... 25
 0......... Average punt returns .........32
5...................... Kick-offs .................... 4
47.... Average kick-off yardage .... 38
21.... Average kick-off returns .... 15
8. ...................... Fumbles ........................ 4
2....................Fumbles lost..............  1
 1................... Penalties ................ 6
1 5........... Yards lost penalties ...... 60
LAFAYETTE 
EndsMcBrail, J. Burcin, Pennington, 
Reichenbach, Spacek, Horst, Jones. 
TacklesFyvie, Elberti, Salvador, Dahms, 
Faquerquitt.GuardsFlood, Kennedy, B. Burein. 
CentersHedden, Ulin.
BacksBartlett, Brown, Slotter, C. Mc
Carthy, Satterlee, Kozichek, Mattison, 
Sayenga, Good, Raymond Dion. CARNEGIE TECH 
EndsFicery, Hrusik, Shellhammer; 
TacklesWengrzyn, J. McCarthy, Luckey, 
Butler.Guards  Williamson, Karcher, Jones,
largely because of the number of 
students on the squad in compari
son to the other sports. In injuries 
per capita, however, intramural 
touch football challenges varsity 
sports as a rugged game.
One Big Difference
A Tartan victory eases the train
ers problems, for a while at least: 
They dont feel the aches and 
pains so much if they win. But 
thats only for 24 hours After that 
it doesnt matter if they win or 
loose, they hurt just the same.
Trainer Willoughby, who served 
five years at Pitt, pointed out a 
big difference between the two 
schools. The students here seem 
to have more fun playing football.
Capul.
CenterSchell.
BacksJeske, Miller, DeVries, Brown, 
Quatse, Briner, Stofan, Tucci.
Lafayette ........................ 7 7 0
Carnegie Tech............... 0 7 16
TouchdownsSatterlee, Kozichek 2,
, Tucci.
3, DeVries 3. 
SafetiesBartlett (tackled by William
son).
OfficialsEbert, Referee: Schwarzer, Um
pire; Schoen, Linesman; Wallace, Field 
Judge.
PITTSBURGH OPERA
Syria Mosque
RICHARD KARP, General Director
Season 1954-55 with Metropolitan Opera Stars
Student Tickets On Sale at 
Administraiton Building Oct, 6, 7 and 8
Oct. 28th and 30Aida
Ellen Faull - Giorgio Cocolios - Bardis 
Margery Mayer - Cesaro Bardelli
Dec. 2nd and 4thRigoletto
Ferruccio Tagliavini - Walter Cassell 
Dorothy Warenshjold
Jan. 20th and 22ndLucia di Lammermoor
Graciela Rivera - Eugene Conley
Feb. 24th and 26thLa Traviata
Licia Albanese - John Alexander - Robert Weede
March 17th and 19thLa Tosca
Eleanor Steber - Rudolf Petrak - Robert Weede
Prices: Thursday Eve.$5 to $8. Saturday Eve.$6 to $10
A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY
omto uNt* 8-pmo4.pc o pmP 3o38k3o- 3oLu8mc if
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH 
 Itt Center Avenue Kllwid 1-7011
**Cok*"  a regiitered trad* mark,  1954, THE COCA-COU COMPANY*BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
In addition to this on-the-job ex
perience, I have attended several spe
cial training courses conducted by the 
company. Now Im breaking in a new 
man, just like when I started.
  
Don Garlands work is typical of many 
engineering assignment in the Bell 
Telephone Companies. There are simi
lar opportunities for college graduates 
with Bell Telephone Laboratories, 
Western Electric and Sandia Corpora
tion. If youd like to get more details, 
see your Placement Officer. He will he 
glad to help you.
W. D. Garland, E.E. 52, Univ. of 
California, is working for the Pacific 
Telephone Company. We thought 
youd be interested in what Don 
told us about his first assignment.
(Reading time: 45 seconds)
Here DonGarland makes noise distribution measurements 
uith a Level Distribution Recorder
First thing the Chief Engineer ex
plained to me was that all the answers 
arent in the book. He was right. Most 
of the problems have required a com
bination of electrical engineering, a 
knowledge of costs and generous 
amount of ingenuity. I like it that way. 
Its given me an immediate opportunity 
to put into practice the theory I learned 
at school.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 5, 1954CARNEGIE TART ANPage %
%
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor .....................................................................................Kathy Galligan
Managing Editor ................ .......... ................ .................Victor Sabol
Circulation Manager .......................... ............................James Soltis
Reporters ......................................................Dolores Neff, Edna Thorwart
Banquet Will Honor 
Students For Service
On Saturday evening, October 9, 1954, Evening Student Council 
will hold its annual insignia award banquet at the Carnegie Union 
at 6:30 p.m. The insignia award banquet is an annual event, and 
an invitation to this affair is the result of having earned 20 or more 
points for work and services con-4----------------------------------------------------
tributed on behalf of Evening Stu
dent Council during the school 
year. It is an honor to be present
ed with the insignia award key 
which symbolizes this services and 
is a token of appreciation from 
Evening Student Council.
The participants at this years 
banquet will, in addition to re
ceiving their coveted key, dine on 
a chicken dinner, meet several of 
their faculty members, and hear 
an address by Dr. J. C. Warner and 
Dean Cleeton. For the first time 
in the memory of evening school, 
Mr. McKelway will not be with us 
due to doctors orders, and his 
presence will be missed.
Those of you who may have 
hearc of Council and its many ac
tivities throughout the year will be 
interested to know that you may 
begin now to earn points towards 
your insignia award next year. 
Any service you do for Council en
titles you to a certain number of 
points, an accumulation of which 
merit you an insignia award key.
Evening School 
Groups Picnic 
Near Ambridge
On Sunday,. August 29, 1954,*a 
combined picnic of all evening 
school organizations was held at 
Spangs Lodge near Ambridge. In 
attendance were members of Sig
ma Delta Phi and Phi Nu fraterni
ties, Phi Gamma Phi sorority, the 
Newman Club, and Evening Stu
dent Council. Excellent weather 
enabled the group to participate 
in many varied activities. Unfor
tunately the proposed mushball 
game between Sigma Delta Phi 
. and Phi Nu failed to materialize 
as Phi Nu was not able to muster 
a ball team. However, in all fair
ness to Phi Nu, they were the top 
men on the horseshoe courts.
An excellent collection of group 
names arranged by George Bogoi* vich high-lighted the picnic. Quite 
.. unusual was the womens nail 
driving contest, the object of 
which was to drive a spike into a 
piece of timber without bending 
it and with a minimum' number 
of strokes.
Another unusual game was one 
in which the men wrapped their 
date from head to toe in layers of 
toilet p^per. The first man to com
plete the mummy was the winner.
A shoe race for the men pro
vided a mild catastrophe. The 
object was for the men to re
move their shoes and put them 
in a pile at one end of a field. The 
"'..race consisted of running the 
length of the field in bare or stock
ing feet, get ones shoes, return, 
and put the shoes on. During the 
^ race Ray Schwalm and George 
8 Dawes bumped heads and since 
George Dawes was knocked down, 
j | the conclusion was that Ray 
.Schwalm had the harder head.
The evening entertainment in
cluded dancing and a program of 
movies shown by George Schussler. This affair was very success
ful and it is hoped that a similar 
affair will be held in future years.
Sigma Delt
Sigma Delta Phi fraternity 
will hold its first monthly 
meeting on October 10, 1954,. 
in Room A at the Carnegie 
Union at 2:00 p.m. All mem
bers are urged to attend.
Engineers Plan 
Gateway Fete
Frank Polina, chairman for this 
years Engineers Banquet, wishes 
to announce that this year the an
nual banquet will be held at Pitts
burghs new Gateway Plaza. Al
though the banquet will not take 
place until May 7, 1955, Frank and 
his committee have already done 
much of the planning for this 
event.
The Gateway Plaza has just 
started operating at the beautiful 
Gateway center, which is quickly 
gaining nationwide fame as the 
rfist step towards making Pitts
burgh an elegant business metopolis.
The Plaza is ideally suited for 
the Engineers Banquet. Its strik
ingly beautiful architectural de
sign, superb air conditioning, and 
great flexibility guarantee the ut
most comfort. The interior is sub
divided by collapsible, sound-proof 
partitions which can be rearranged 
in a very short time. The Plaza is 
a dream of modern architecture 
and will certainly appeal to many 
of the engineers and designers 
tastes.
With Frank and his committee 
off to such an early start cm the 
planning of this annual spring 
event, it should be a memorable 
affair, and May 7 will be a date to 
which every male evening student 
will be looking forward.
Evening Newmans 
Open 1954 Activity 
At Union Sunday
On Sunday evening, October 10, 
1954, the evening school Newman 
Club will hold its first meeting of 
the year at the Carnegie Union. 
This first meeting is the one which 
no new or old member will want 
to miss, as Father Angelo, a priest 
of the Passionist Order of St. 
Pauls Monastery, will speak on 
God, the Giver of the Sacra
ments.
Those \fiio have already met 
Father Angelo will be happy to 
meet this forceful, energetic per
sonality again, and those of you 
who have not as yet become ac
quainted with him will want to do 
so. Father Angelo conducted a 
lecture series on the mass this 
summer which several Newmanites 
attended and which they loudly 
praised for the simple, sincere 
presentation by the Passionist 
Father. *
New members are cordially in
vited to attend this meeting and 
become acquainted. Refreshments 
will be served at the end of the 
evening and plans will be dis
cussed for future business and so
cial events. This club is for you 
as a Catholic student on a- secular 
campus, and we are expecting to 
see you there.
Patronize 
Our Advertisers
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO 
THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASS!
KEEP ALERT FOR A 
BETTER POINT AVERAGEI
Dont let that drowsy feel 
ing cramp your style in class 
... or when youre "hitting 
the books. Take a NoDoj 
Awakener! In a few minute^ 
youll be your normal best.. 
wide awake . . . alert! Youf 
doctor will tell youNoDof 
Awakeners are safe as coffee 
Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c ^
rack 35 tablets in handy tin 
49c ^
NOQOZ
AWAKENERS
STUDENTS!
Got a Lucky Droodle 
in your noodle?
SEND IT IN AND
MOST BEAUTIFUL WOMAN 
IN TURKKY ACCOMPANIED 
BY VERY UGLY FRIEND
Want to pick up $25? Make up a Lucky 
Droodle and send it in. Its easy.
If you want to find out just how easy it 
is, ask Roger Price, creator of Droodles. 
Very! Price says. Better yet, do a Droodle 
yourself, like the ones shown here.
Droodle anything you like. And send in 
as many as you want. If we select yours, 
well pay $25 for the right to use it, together 
with your name, in our advertising. Were 
going to print plentyand lots that we 
dont print will earn $25 awards.
Draw your Droodles any size, on any piece 
of paper, and send them with your descrip
tive titles to Lucky Droodle, P. O. Box 67, 
New York 46, N. Y. Be sure your name, 
address, college and class are included.
While youre droodling, light up a Lucky 
the cigarette that tastes better because 
its made of fine tobacco ; ; . and Its 
Toasted to taste better.
DROODLES. Copyright, 1954. by Roor Prie*
A.T. Co. PRODUCT OP
ITS TOASTED
to taste better!
AMERICAS LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
FLASH!
LUCKIES LEAD AGAIN IN COLLEGES!
Newest, biggest survey of smokers in colleges from coast to coast, based on 
34,440 actual student interviews, shows that students prefer Luckies to all 
other brands. Once again, the No. 1 reason: Luckies taste better.

---------------------------------------------------

NOME OF OS ff WE'RE ALL . 
INNOCENT.'' f
-keep rr NEAT- 1 BUT NOT-UGH r- GREASY.rr GET | 
WILD ROOT CREAM OIL, CHARLIE Jr
HAIR, AND LOOSE DANDRUFg GAVE YOU AWAV/T'-NEXTTiMECOMO AND HOGAN
Perry Como, top TV and recording star, and 
Ben Hoganonly active golfer to win 4 national 
championships, enjoy a Chesterfield during a 
friendly round of golf.
Gold Coast Youth 
Gets Financial Aid 
To Stay At Tecli
Kwamena Dougan, a 19 year old 
young man from Africas Gold 
Coast, arrived on the Carnegie 
Tech campus this week without a 
penny in his pocket and applied 
for admission. He was admitted 
"on the cuff basis and an appeal 
for aid was published in the PostGazette.
The news was only a few hours 
old when Dr. Douglas F. Miner re
ceived a phone call from a lady, 
who prefers o remain anonymous, 
informing him that she would do
nate the $1500 necessary to see 
Kwamena Dougan through the first 
year at Carnegie Tech.
In making the grant the lady 
said, I had established funds in 
memory of my parents. For some 
time I have been anxious to help 
a colored boy. This is the answer 
to my prayers. She asked CarFelloivship to Hear 
Rev. Philip Potter 
At MeetingTonight
Here is an opportunity for Tech 
students to meet and listen to a 
member of the World Council 
team. The Rev. Philip Potter of 
Haiti and chairman of the youth 
department committee of the 
World Council will be guest speak
er at the regular meeting of West
minister Fellowship tonight at the 
Bellefield Presbyterian Church. In 
addition to the youth work Dr. 
Potter is doing now he has been 
secretary of the Jamaica Student 
Christian Movement, in 1948 
was overseas secretary for the 
British Student Christian Move
ment and since 1950 he has been 
pastor of a Methodist church at 
Cap Haitein, Haiti. In 1953 he 
made an extended visit to West 
Africa in the interests of Chris
tian youth work.
The Westminister Fellowship 
extends a welcome to all students 
to hear Dr. Potter this evening and 
to become acquainted with West
minister Fellowships regular 
Tuesday dinner meetings starting 
at 5:30 p.m. at the Bellefield 
Church at Fifth and Bellefield.
CUDDLE BRENDEL
1216 Wood Run Ave.
off Brighton Road
Dancing Nightly
no coverno minimum
One Stop 
Service
SHIRTS
WASHED and 
PRESSED ON OUR 
NEW PRESSES
ROUGH DRY LAUNDRY 
DRY CLEANING
One Hour Service 
If Desired
ALL WORK DONE ON 
OUR PREMISES
CAMPUS
Cleaners
negie for the boys total bill for 
one year including housing, food, 
tuition and books. Any additional 
funds which may come in will go 
towards his clothing or be applied 
to his next years tuition.
When he was told of his good 
fortune, Dougan became speech
less and flabbergasted.
HousingNotice
All organizations, honoraries, and publications must sub
mit a list of officers and staff 
members to the Dean of Mens 
Office as soon as possible. No
tification of changes in officers 
must also be submitted when 
necessary.
[Continued from page Ij 
with floor plans and a detailed 
description of the external design. 
The representatives were asked 
by Dr. Warner to discuss this plan 
with their active chapter and 
alumni. Suggestions for changes 
can then be submitted in writing 
to Dr. Warner by October 21. 
These will be carefully considered 
and adaptations made where fi
nancially feasible and desirable.
After this, the first four frater
nities who have requested to be 
included in the first construction 
will be consulted. As soon as final 
aproval is gained, the architect
will start drawing up specifica
tions. Then the project will be im
mediately submitted for bids. The 
present iime schedule calls for 
completion by second semester of 
the next school year and almost 
certainty of completion by the fall of 1956.
The fraternity units will cost 
$150,000 each with the fraternity 
putting up $27,500 and amortizing 
the rest over a 40 year period. 
Each fraternity will also take the 
responsibility of furnishing the 
house.
The architectural model and the 
basic floor plans art now on dis
play in Dr. Minors Office in Ad
ministration Hall. Any interested 
student is invited to stop and see 
the proposed solution to the need 
of new fraternity housing.
Survey[Continued from Page 2] 
gathered information about the op
eration of the womens dormitory 
and the effectiveness of the orien
tation progr- During the next 
few weeks they will be talking 
with students about publications, 
student government, and many 
other activities. They want to get 
the point of view of both campus 
residents and commuters.
PEoiossor Morgan said that the 
members of the committee would 
like to talk with any students 
about the activities in which they 
are interested. They are invited to 
get in touch v ith a member of the 
committee and give their opinions 
and idea's.
^fARLtSS^OiDICK
WHICH OF 'you 
3AS PUMPS
CROOK?THEby AL CAPP
TX CASH REGISTER'S - BUT, WE  EMPTY, t _ m OQKtr KNOW AGAIN.'? WHO
EXCEPT VOU, ANVF^CE, MASTER 
OF DISGUISE//THAT SLOPPYBUT, THAT WOULD BE 
ILLEGAL// MY NAME IS TYRONE!!
^GREASY HAIR SPOILING YOUR LOOKS? KEEP IT NEAT WITHOUT GREASE ^ WITH WILOROOi CREAM-OIL
WHAT A BUY - CHESTERFIELD King Size 
(qt the New Low Price) and Regular
Like Ben and Perry you smoke for relaxation, comfort and 
satisfaction. In the whole wide world no cigarette satisfies 
like a Chesterfield.
You smoke with the greatest possible pleasure when your 
cigarette is Chesterfieldbecause only Chesterfield has the 
right combination of the worlds best tobaccoshighest in 
qualitylow in nicotine.
In short, Chesterfields are best to smoke and best for you.
Pagre 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 5, 1954
4609 Forbes St.LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA'S COLLEGES
