VOL. 48No. 2 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., SEPT. 28, 1954
Dr. ReppeRenowned Chemist 
Coming To Lecture At Carnegie
Dr. Walter J. Reppe, of West Germany, arrived in New York 
today enroute to Pittsburgh where he will be Koppers Visiting Pro
fessor of Chemistry under a grant from the Koppers Company.
The world famous chemist was met at the ship by Tech President,
Dr. John C. Warner, and Koppers#-----------------------------------------------
Vice-President and Research Dilector, Dr. G.'F. DAlelio.
Research Director
Dr. Reppe, former Vice-Presi
dent and Director of I. G. Farbenindustrie A.G., and now re
search director of Badische Anilinund Soda Fabrik, is noted for 
his development of acetylene pro
cessing methods. Starting from the 
smallest building blocks such as 
aceylene, carbon monoxide and 
water, Dr. Reppe made possible 
the production of a great many
Dr. Walter J. Reppe
Visiting Professor
new compounds, including a syn
thetic blood plasma. His methods 
of processing acetylene under 
pressure have come to be known 
as Reppe Chemistry.
Dr. Reppe will arrive in Pitts
burgh on September 29, and he 
will give lectures on October 1,
4 and 6 at 4:00 p.m. in the Car
negie Institute lecture hall.
Country Tour 
After the first three lectures 
at Carnegie Tech, Dr. Reppe will 
start a tour organized by the school 
which will cover the country. He 
will address the Organic Chemists 
Club in Wilmington, Delaware on 
October 7 and then head west to 
speak at the National Chemical 
Exposition meeting in Chicago on 
October 15. During the latter part 
of the month, Dr. Reppe will be in
specting manufacturing and re
search establishments in Texas 
and California.
Sections of the American Chem
ical Society meeting in Texas City 
and Los Angeles will hear him 
speak October 26 and 28 respec
tively. Dr. Reppes tour includes 
a view of the Grand Canyon and 
concludes in San Francisco, where 
he will visit industrial plants. He 
is due back in Pittsburgh for con
cluding lectures at Carnegie Tech, 
November 4 and 8. The chemists 
final lecture will be given to Re
search Conference No. 13, being 
held at Carnegie Tech November 9.
Thistles
1. Yearbooks will be dis
tributed in Black Cat lounge 
Wednesday and Thursday 
11:30 to 1:30.
2. Bring receipts and be pre
pared to pay any balance due.
3. Graduated seniors who 
wish to pick up yearbooks in
stead of having them mailed 
home please notify Naney 
Davis, c/o Box 259.
Spirit And Talent 
High, Says Band 
Director Cantrick
Carnegie Tech has always been 
famous for its band, so it is no 
wonder that its new members 
should make news. Roughly 60 
auditioned and of those, approxi
mately 50 were accepted.
However, the band is still in 
need of flute and sax players and 
any boy interested in trying out 
should see Mr. Cantrick. The best 
time is during one of the rehear
sal days, which are Monday, Wed
nesday, and Friday at 4:30 in the 
exhibition room of the Fine Arts 
Building. Also, any pipers who 
might like to try out are encour
aged to see Mr. Lewis Davidson 
during bagpiper rehearsals on 
Tuesday or Thursday at 4:30 in 
Thistle Hall.
More Needed
This announcement concerns up
perclassmen as well as freshmen. 
This year, two upperclassmen, 
David Chabola and Roger Pierce, 
were welcomed into the band.
Of those who auditioned, these 
are the ones who were accepted. 
Percussion players include Jami
son Jack, Marlyn Jakob, Bill 
Scrioner, and Roger Ryan; Clari
netHenry Adams, Edward Stone, 
Vincent Sanzotti, J. S. Pettengill, 
Fred Geil, Robert Jones, Frank 
Shuck, David Colborn, Dominic 
Venturella, and David Chabola; 
SaxophoneEugene Reitzke, Alan 
Margolin, and David Cecil; Bari
tone  Louis Polski, Ray Whit
ney, Ghoregas Chobanian, Richard 
Ott, and Robert Garvin; .Trumpet 
or Comet  Glen Zockoll, Ro
derick Horne, Peter Smith, Eugene 
Clayton, John Honey, and Charles 
Schopman; French HornLarry 
Dunlap; BassoonRichard Lichauco; TubaWilliam Licht, Peter 
Boekhoff, John Ruth, Frank Matz, 
Robert McKee, and Robert Netzlof; Trombone  Warren Doty, 
Robert Snelsire, James Vetzig, and 
Gerald Manolas.
Bagpipers Named v
The new bagpipers include Jim 
Moore, Tony Mierzwa, Louis Marquet, Robert French, Thomas 
Schriempf, Marvin Graham, John 
[Continued on page 3]
Elections
Elections for freshmen class 
officers will be held on Tues
day, October 12, from 11:30 
a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Candidates 
for any of the six offices may 
obtain petitions for nomina
tion in Dean Davids office, 
AH 150-A.
Petitions must be returned 
to Dean Davids office by 1:30 
p.m. Tuesday, October 5.
4* *
A scene from last years pushball contest shows what freshmen 
can expect.
Sorority Rushing 
Begins With Tea 
Given By Pan-Hell
This week finds the seven 
sororities at Carnegie Tech en
gaged in rushing of sophomore, 
junior, and senior girls. It will 
continue for two weeks ending on 
October 11 when the rushees may 
pick their bids.
Rushing started last Sunday 
when Pan-Hell, the representa
tive body of sororities made up 
of two members from each soror
ity, held a rushing tea at the Car
negie Union. At this time the 
president of each sorority gave a 
sort talk about her sorority. This 
year Pan-Hell, for the first time, 
prepared a booklet explaining the 
finances and ristory of the differ
ent sororities.
Since yesterday the sororities 
have been inviting the rushees to 
dinner and luncheon dates in 
Morewood Gardens. Each group 
is allowed one party during the 
rush period. Every rushee must 
have obtained at least at least a 
2:00 factor before she is eligible 
for rushing.
The sororities work their rush[Continued on page 8]
Frosh Remove Dinks 
If They Win Saturday
The annual Frosh Hop, on Friday, October 1, will lead off the 
three traditional events designed for the entertainment and enlight
enment of freshmen. The other two events, the Push Ball competi
tion and the Traditions exam, will be held on October 2 and 5, re
spectively. ?
The Hop, an informal and 1 A  *Council Appoints 
Secret Committee
strictly stag affair, will be held in 
Thistle Hall from 8 p.m. until 
12:00. Music, both mellow and 
spicy, will be provided by Joe Har
ris and his orchestra, and refresh
ments will be sold in the Black 
Cat Lounge. Bobby sox and sports 
jackets are the style, and fun and 
fellowship is the theme.
Push Ball Game 
Saturday, October 2 at 1:30, the 
traditional Push Ball competition 
between the sophomore and the 
freshman men will decide the allimportant fate of the dink. Up 
until then, freshmen are to wear 
their dinks from 9 to 5 while they 
are on campus. (Beware you frosh 
who havent beenthe upper 
classmen are making notes of you).
Scotch 9n Soda 
Script Deadline 
Set October 1
Scotch n Soda, Carnegie Techs 
dramatic group made up of stu
dent^ from all departments, is 
again interested in obtaining any 
original scripts from students en
rolled in school. Every year at 
Spring Carnival this group puts 
on a production that runs three 
evenings. Last years show was 
a musical entitled One In a Mil
lion.
Any original script will be con
sidered by the board of Scotch n 
Soda for this years play. All 
scripts should be sent to the 
Scotch n Soda club through intra
school mail. 'T'he deadline is set 
for October 1 and a prize of 
$25.00 will be awarded to the 
writer of the script which will be 
used as the basis of this years 
production.
Homecoming 
Theme Named
The general Homecoming com
mittee, comprised of members of 
Mortar Board and Omicron Delta 
Kappa has announced that the 
1954 Homecoming Weekend theme 
is Comic Strip' Characters, Wel
come Alumni, and Beat W&J. One 
comic strip character may serve as 
the basis for the fraternity decor
ations.
Each fraternity will submit a 
list of its first, second, and third 
choices of character in to the 
Dean of Mens office, by Monday, 
October 11, 1954, 4:30 p.m. The 
fraternity decorations committee 
will meet soon thereafter to check 
the lists and approve the first 
choices where conflicts do not 
arise.
Each fraternity shall select a 
representative (not the decorations 
chairman) who will meet, at a 
time to be announced later, with 
the fraternity decorations com
mittee.
If a conflict arises, the represen
tatives from each group will meet 
and draw lots to settle the con
flict. If there are any questions 
contact Stan Rosenberg, George 
Miley, or Janice Yent.
Student Council
The next Student Council 
meeting will be held Wednes
day, September 29, at 4:30 in 
Room D of the Carnegie Un
ion. Business will include dis
cussion of the Homecoming 
budget, and it is expected that 
all organizations entitled to a 
council representative will 
have their delegates present.
For Investigations
By James Murphy
The first meeting of Student 
Council for this semester was held 
last Wednesday at the Carnegie 
Union. Main business was the ap
pointment of new committee mem
bers by the president, George 
Miley, It was also determined that 
Council will sponsor the Home
coming pep-rally.
The committee appointments 
were as follows:
Campus ChestDorothy McGinley, Simon Kellman.
If the fieshmen win the ball game, pjans & ProgramsMarv Prezioso, 
goodbye dink! But if they lose,! Jean Turri> gtan Rosenberg, 
the dink stays on until Homecom- i Tom Porsching. and Mike Dosingunless the freshmen are very, | 
very good. j 'It requires a large section of Elections-Dave Larson, 
cheering freshman girls, as well as Freshman RegulationsHarry 
the freshman men pushing to beat i Bracken, 
those oppressive and mighty j BudgetJoe Thomas, 
sophomores, so freshmen, get out
there and fight on that Saturday 
afternoon.
Traditions Exam 
The compulsory Traditions exam 
will be held during the 11:30 as
sembly period on Tuesday, Octo
ber 5, in EH 2210 and 2315 asthe men, and in MMCC 103 for
the women. Awards are given onin ... T u VO L . 4 8_ , , TT . , PublicityJ o h n Bos, MarjorieCarnegie day at Homecoming for T,n(
FilesMary Ellen Ruth, Marjorie 
Forster.
By-LawsJim Shriver. 
PublicationsCarolyn Copp, Stan 
Rosenberg.
Permanent Decorations  George 
Yanda.
SocialEdward Davis.
Forster, Dave Larson, Janet 
Bishop.
Mr. Miley explained that the size 
of this list committee was in keep
ing with his plans to have the stu
dent body better informed on 
j the activities of Council through 
The things to know are: the Stu- { semester, 
dent Council officers; the major Secret Committee
school officials; the school history, Probably the most interesting 
and past presidents; buildings and announcement made at the meetthose who score highest. Re-tests 
are held for those who dont pass, 
though rumor has it that people 
who do particularly poorly or need 
assistance from their neighbor will 
find themselves removing all the 
crab grass from senior walk.
locations on campus; cheers and 
songs; and most of what is found 
in the Student Handbooksuch as 
honoraries and social fraternities, 
The Traditions exam will be the 
climax of the freshman orientation 
program sponsored by Cwens and 
Scimitars.
Student Tickets 
For Symphony 
On Sale At Tech
ing was the selection by Mr. Miley 
of a Secret Committee consist
ing of Harvey White and Paul 
Bollinger which will work under 
the personal direction of the pres
ident of Student Council. Mr. 
Miley did not wish to disclose the 
purpose of this committee, partic
ularly in the presence of the Tar
tan reporter.
In view of this fact, it was felt 
that Council is not really sincere 
in its desire to keep the student 
body informed on Councils activi
ties. It is hoped that this situaStudent season tickets for the | tion will be cleared up at the next
20 pairs of regular concerts by j meeting.
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orches- j It was hoped that this Secret 
tra will go on sale October 4 in Committee will have as its project 
the registrars office between 9:00 j something of real benefit to the
a.m. and 3:30 p.m. : student body, that it will not be
Mrs. King will be in charge of j merely a repetition of previous 
the sale of these tickets. Price of | Council fiascos such as last year's 
the season ticket is $9.00 for the Skibo investigation.
Friday evening series and $7.00 The next meeting will be held 
for the Sunday afternon repeat j this Wednesday at Carnegie Un
performance. ion. Room D, at 4:30. Business
The first concert of the twenty- j will include discussion of the 
eighth season will take place Fri- Homecoming budget, and it is eXday evening, October 22 at Syria  pect^fl that all organizations entiMosque, with William SteinbergI tied to a Council representative 
conducting an all-orchestral pro- i will have their delegates present.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 28, 1954
Students Offered 
Reduced Prices 
For Saint Joan
Jean Arthur, star of stage and 
screen, will appear in person at 
the Nixon Theatre, Pittsburgh, in 
Bernard Shaw's Saint Joan, for 
one week only beginning Monday, 
October 4.
The star of many films, in
cluding Shane, Mr. Deeds 
Goes to Town, You Can't Take 
It With You, Mr. Smith Goes 
to Washington and Arizona, 
Miss Arthur returned to the legimate theatre in 1950 and scored 
a brilliant success in the title role 
of J. M. Barries Peter Pan, 
breaking all Broadway records for 
that plays past runs. Now in 
Saint Joan, where she portrays 
the peasant girl who led an army, 
drove the English out of France, 
crowned the Dauphin as Charles 
VII, was burned at the stake in 
1431 as a heretic, and in 1920 
was canonized, she appears in an
other of the best parts ever writ
ten for an actress, and in a drama 
that John Mason Brown, noted 
critic, author and lecturer, has 
called Not only Shaw's greatest 
play, but one of the greatest plays 
of the modern theatre.
Saint Joan is presented by 
the Producers Theatre under the 
supervision of Robert Whitehead. 
It has been directed by Harold 
Clurman and the settings and cos
tumes are by Mordecai Gorelik. 
The large cast that will support 
Miss Arthur includes Sam Jaffe, 
George Macready, Frank Silvera; 
Wyndham Goldied, distinguished 
London actor who makes his 
American debut as the Earl of 
Warwick; Paul Richards, George 
Lloyd (a Carnegie Tech alumnus), 
Larry Ward. Robert Goodier, Lou 
Polan, Philip Huston, - Norman 
Roland, Paul Ballantyne.
Saint Joan is the first play 
this season on the Theatre GuildAmerican Theatre Society series 
in Pittsburgh, and will be present
ed at the Nixon Theatre from 
Monday, October 4 through Sat
urday, October 9, with evening 
performances at 8:30 and Wednes
day and Saturday matinees at 2 
p.m.
A special ticket rate of $1.80 for 
$4.70 seats for Monday and Tues
day nights, October 4 and 5, is 
being made available to students 
of Carnegie Tech. See Miss Doro
thy Schmidt, secretary of the 
drama department, Fine Arts 
Building, for further information.
Over The Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
Well, here we are, back at the old grind for our fourth and final 
year, and many things havent changed in the last three years. 
Everyone is still looking for a satisfactory way to make the fresh
men wear their dinks and raise school spirit around campus. I was 
very disappointed, as were so many football fans, when the Kiltie 
Band didnt march at the Westminster game on Saturday. We think 
that an opening game with an undefeated rival would at least war
rant the bands attention.
* * * *
Another gripe expressed by many students was the lack of a 
pep rally. You would think that the people who have charge of these 
events would at least take into consideration the fact that the foot
ball team, representing the school and the students, has worked hard, 
and deserves at least Ihis show of support. It is small wonder that 
school spirit cannot be cultivated in Tech students.
* * * *
Our Campus Coed department is extremely pleased that Kiltie or 
Bermuda skirts havent caught the fancy of Tech women. This de
partment maintains the belief that there is nothing glamorous about 
a girls knees, especially when shown over the top of a pair of 
knee socks.
* * * *
All men pay attention! Did you know that the woman does the 
proposing in three out of every 100 marriages? Question: Did she 
ask you for your pin or did you ask her to take it? If you are pin
ned and thinking of tying the knot, will your girl be a good home
maker? Thirty-two percent of American men think this is a womans 
most important quality. I wonder if Mrs. Joseph DiMaggio can cook?
* * * *
Definition of the week: Home: a place where you scratch any
thing that itches.* * * *
Congratulations to the Thistle staff of last year for a splendid 
yearbook. The photographs add a subtle beauty to the school not or
dinarily noticed, and the idea of laying the book out in chronological 
order is not only novel but practical. The students definitely owe the 
Thistle staff a round of applause.
Broad Group 
To Discuss Recent 
Court Decisions
Members of the Panel of Ameri
cans interested in the discussion 
of racial, religious and sociological 
problems meet monthly to discuss 
such questions as recent Supreme 
Court decisions.
The panels program also in
cludes speaking engagements at 
which five students selected from 
the general membership and rep
resenting the predominant re
ligious, racial, and ethnic groups 
speak before such audiences as 
Y-teen clubs, P.TA.s, and mens 
and womens civic groups.
Those members not interested in 
ma cing speaking appearances may 
restrict their participation to the 
group discussions or management.
The panels purpose is to promots brotherhood and under
standing among the students at 
Tech and citizens of surrounding 
communities.
The question of segregation will 
be discussed on Sunday evening, 
October 10. Faculty, students and 
friends are invited to participate. 
Anyone interested in attending 
should Mr. Irwin Steinberg in 
AH 229A.
A IE E-IRE Open 
Activity With Talk 
And Refreshments
The student branch of the 
American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers and the Institute of Ra
dio Engineers are planning a lec
ture followed by a smoker as 
their first activity of the year. On 
October 6 this group will go to 
Mellon Institute to listen to a 
talk by H. B. Kiphuth, assistant 
director of the management de
velopment section of Westinghouse Electric Company, on man
agement selection and develop
ment. The talk will start at 8:00 
p.m. and will be held jointly with 
the Pittsburgh section of AIEE.
After the talk the group will 
go to one of the fraternity houses 
for refreshments. Anyone in the 
electrical engineering department 
is invited whether he is a mem
ber or not. A special invitation is 
being extended to freshmen and 
sophomores.The AIEE-IRE also is sponsor
ing teams in the intramural ath
letic leagues here at school. Any
one interested in playing any 
sport should contact Norman Caben by leaving a note in the elec
trical office.
Future plans call for about six 
joint meetings with the American 
Society of Mechanical Engineers 
in which representatives from 
industry will try to give students, 
seniors in particular, an idea of 
the types of jobs offered and 
what is expected of the engineer 
in certain fields.
T artan
There will be a meeting for 
anyone interested in working 
for the TARTAN on Friday, 
October 1, at 8:30 p.m. in the 
Tartan office.
Grades
The date for reporting mid
semester grades has been 
changed from November 8 to 
November 15, 1954.
One Stop 
Service
SHIRTS
WASHED and 
PRESSED ON OUR 
NEW PRESSES
ROUGH DRY LAUNDRY 
DRY (LEANING
One Hour Service 
If Desired
ALL WORK DONE ON 
OUR PREMISES
CAMPUS 
Cleaners
4609 Forbes St.
No Cyril, Paleolithic man did iiot color Easter eggs.
When you pause...make it count...have a Coke
OmiD UNDER AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COiA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH
Hlland 1-79*1 
 1954, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
5722 Center Avenue
Coke is a registered trade-mark
^FARLt$OiDICK
THAT'S A UE.rr- I'M A REALOCTOPUS ff- I'M JUST A 
MORE. AFFECTIONATE 
CUDDLE BRENDEL
1216 Wood Run Ave.
off Brighton Road
Dancing Nightly
no coverno minimumWILDROOT CREAM-OIL KEEPS HAIR COMBED FROM MORNING TILL NIGHT^ WITHOUT GREASIKIESS

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday September 2S, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage 8
On Canonswith , 
MjcShnJman
(Author of Barefoot Boy With Cheek, etc.)
FOOTBALL THROUGH THE AGES
The football frenzy is upon us. But let us, in the midst of this pandemonium, call time. Let us pause for a moment of tranquil reflection. What is this game called football? What is its history? Its origins? Its traditions? These are not idle questions, for when we have the answers we will appreciate even more fully, enjoy even more deeply, this great American game of football.
First of all, to call football an American game is somewhat misleading. True, the game is now played almost exclusively in America, but it comes to us from a land far away and a civilization long dead.Football was first played in ancient Rome. Introduced by Julius Caesar, it became one of the most popular Roman sports by the time of Nero's reign. The eminent historian Sigafoos reports a crowd of MMCLDDXVIII people at the Colosseum one Saturday afternoon to seethe Christians play the Lions.With the decline of the Roman empire football fell into disuse. The barbaric Huns and Goths preferred canasta. However, by the Twelfth Century A.D. football had emerged from its twilight and risen to its rightful place in the firmament of European pastimes. The eminent historian Sigafoos reports that the whole continent was in the grip of wild excitement in the year 1192 when the. Crusaders, under Freddie Barbarossa, journeyed all the way to Damascus to play the Saracens in the Fig Bowl game. The Crusaders squeaked through, 23 to 21, on a field goal by Dick Coeur de Lion in the closing seconds of the game.October 21, 1512, will ever remain a red letter day in the history of football. On that day Leonardo da Vinci, who has often been called The Renaissance Man because of his proficiency in a hundred arts and sciences, was painting a picture of a Florentine lady named Mona Lisa Schultz. Listen, Mona baby," he said as she struck a pose for her portrait, I keep telling youdont smile. Just relax and look natural.But Im not smiling, she replied.Well, what do you call it? he said.Gee, I dont know, said Mrs. Schultz. Its just an expression, kind of.Well, cut it out, said The Renaissance Man.Ill try, she promised.And try she did, but without success, for a moment later the artist was saying to her, Look, Mona kid, Im not gonna ask you again. Wipe that silly grin off your face.Honest to goodness, The Renaissance Man, said she to him, its no grin. Its just the way I look.Well, just stop it, said Leonard testily and turned away to mix his pigments.When he turned back to Mona Lisa and saw the smile still on her face, he became so enraged that he seized the nearest object  a casava melon, as it happened  and hurled it at her with all his strength. Showing great presence of mind, she caught the melon and ran with it from the studio until The Renaissance Mans temper 
should cool. CThis was, of course, the first completed forward pass.
Another date dear to the hearts of all football fans is September 29, 1442. It was on this date, according to the eminent historian Sigafoos, that a sixteen year old lad named Christopher Columbus tried out for the football team at Genoa Tech. He failed.to make the team because he was too light. (He weighed at that time only 12 pounds.)And why, you ask, is this date  September 29, 1442  so dear to the hearts of all football fans? Because young Columbus was so heartbroken at not making the team that he ran away to sea. And if that hadnt happened, he never would have discovered America. And if Columbus hadnt discovered America, the world never would have ii iscovered tobacco. And if the world hadnt discovered tobacco, football fans never would have discovered Philip Morris  which, as every fan knows, is the perfect companion to football. As Sigafoos, the eminent historian, says, Lands sakes, I cant even imagine football without Philip Morris. Id sooner go to a game without my raccoon coat than without my neat, rich tobacco-brown snap-open pack of mild vintage Philip Morris Cigarettes which come in regular or king-size at prices young and old can afford. Lands sakes!
The end of football in Europe came with the notorious Black Sox Scandal of 1587, in which Ed Machiavelli, one of the Pisa mob, paid off the University of Heidelberg Sabres to throw the championship game to the Chartres A. and M. Gophers. It was a mortal blow to football on the continent.But the game took hold in the American colonies and thrived as it had never thrived before. Which brings us to another date that remains evergreen in the hearts of football lovers: December 16,1771.On that date a British packet loaded with tea sailed into Boston harbor. The colonies had long been smarting under the English kings tax on tea. Taxation without representation, they called it, and feelings ran high.When on December 16, 1771, the British ship docked at Boston, a semi-pro football team called the Nonpareil Tigers, coached by Samuel (Swifty) Adams, was scrimmaging near the harbor. Come, lads, cried Swifty, seeing the ship.Lets dump the tea in the ocean!With many a laugh and cheer the Nonpareil Tigers followed Swifty aboard and proceeded to dump the cargo overboard in a wild, disorganized and abandoned manner. Here now! called Swifty sharply. Thats no way to dump tea overboard. Lets get into some kind of formation.
And that, fans, is how the T formation was born.
Max Shulman, 1954
This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS 
who think you would enjoy their cigarette.
WRCT To Begin 
Years Programs 
Friday At 9 P. M.
WRCT, Carnegie Techs campus 
radio station, is going to present 
a special initial broadcast when 
they take to the air Friday night, 
October 1. The broadcast will be 
heard from nine until ten that 
night and can be picked up on 
almost any radio on the Carnegie 
eampus at 670 on the radio dial.
WRCT, radio Carnegie Tech, is 
the campus radio run by students. 
It has a record collection worth 
about $3000 of which most of 
them are long play. In addition 
to this the station equipment is 
valued at approximately an equal 
amount.
The station has delayed going 
on the air this year so it could 
set up its equipment and install
Library Fines%/
The maximum fines for the 
late return of books that were 
in effect last year have been 
discontinued. The rates in ef
fect now will be ten cents per 
day for all non-reserve books 
until the book is returned.
Carnegie Techs Popular Band In Scotch Kilts 
Prepare To Perform At Home Foothall Games
new facilities. Another reason is 
that the staff had to be organized.
Many of the programs enjoyed 
by Tech students last year will 
be back again this year. Ye 
Olde Curiosity Shop and Night 
Train are just a couple. WRCT 
is noted for its periods of unin
terrupted recorded, classical mu
sic. The regular broadcast sched-, 
ule is from 7:00 to 12:00 at night. 
The complete schedule will be 
found in the next weeks Tartan.
[Continued from page 1 ] * 
Joslin, Richard Linderman, and 
Roger Rierce.
The weekend of October 2, the 
band members are traveling to 
Easton, Pennsylvania for the game 
and afterwards, some are going to 
New York and take in a show.
Mr. Cantrick is quite pleased 
with his new members as well as 
with those of longer standing. He 
was quoted as saying, This group 
of freshmen has an exceptionally 
fine spirit. In fact, everyone around 
Tech thinks the same of the whole 
freshman class.
The Kiltie band is made up of 
male students from all depart
ments. Many people get the idea 
that it is predominately a music 
department organization. This is 
not the case as almost every de
partment in the school is repre
sented.
The band has other activities 
during the year besides perform
ing at half-time at the football 
games. The organization plays for 
Call day at Homecoming and of
fers several concerts during the 
concert season.
Eight Appointees 
Named To Tech 
Teaching Staff
Four professors and two asso
ciate professors and two associate 
professors have been appointed to 
the staff at Carnegie for the 1954- 
55 academic term.
The College of Fine Arts has a 
new dean and professor of paint
ing, Mr. Norman L. Rice, who 
was formerly dean of the Art In
stitute School in Chicago and di
rector of the school of art at Syr
acuse university.
Colonel Jack P. Campbell, dis
trict engineer for the East At
lantic District has been appointed 
professor of Military Science and 
Tactics.
The department of mathematics 
has a new department head, Dr. 
Walter Leighton Jr., former head 
of mathematics at Washington 
University in St. Louis, a new 
professor, Dr. Zeev Neharf from 
the Hebrew University in Jeru
salem and Washington University, 
St. Louis, and a new associate 
professor, Dr. Marlow Canon 
Sholander, also from Washing
ton University.
Dr. Anne Margaret Cameron, 
from Ohio State University, was 
appointed associate professor of 
home economics in MMCC.
Assistant physical education 
head, Raymond E. Haynes, was 
appointed head of the department, 
and David A. Moskovitz, acting 
head of mathematics until the ap
pointment of Dr. Leighton, was 
named assistant head of math.
The Kiltie Band going through some of its half time routine.
Sillimen Chair 
Reneived By Gulf 
At Carnegie Tech
The Benjamin Silliman Chair in 
chemistry at Carnegie Tech has 
been renewed for another five 
year term. Continuation of the po
sition, currently held by Dr. 
Frederick D. Rossini, head of the 
department of chemistry, was 
made possible by renewals of 
grants from the Gulf Oil Corpora
tion, which first established the 
chair in 1950. The Silliman Chair 
is supported by a grant of $15,000 
per, year.
Like Benjamin Silliman, who 
was one of the country most 
distinguished scientists during the 
1800s and a pioneer in the chem
istry of petroleum refining, Dr. 
Rossini also made major contribu
tions to the oil industry through 
research since accepting the posi
tion five years ago.
Through his fundamental re
search, Dr. Rossini has given the 
oil industry basic knowledgej Iwhich has been important in the 
! development of processes for get
ting more gasoline from a given 
amount of petroleum and for pro| ducing high octane fuels. |
Home Economics 
Club Invites New 
Tech Students
The Home Economics Club will 
hold its first meeting on Wednes
day, October 20, at 3:30 in rec
reation hall, fourth floor of Mar
garet Morrison.
The club invites all students in
terested in the fields of food, nu
trition, fashion, design and edu
cation to attend. A full program 
is being planned for the coming 
year including a fruit-cake sale, 
Christmas dinner and entertain
ment, special programs, and the 
Blossom Tea for seniors.
Football
1. Home football games will 
be played at Forbes Field. 
Kickoff 1:30 except Home
coming Game 2:00.
2. Student entrance will be 
through gates No. 30 and 
31, located on Bouquet 
street near main entrance.
3. Admission to games free, 
upon presentation of regis
tration card. Do not allow
" your card to be used by any 
person but yourself, as it 
may be lifted at the gate.
4. Sections reserved for stu
dents are Nos. 5-6-7 on the 
first floor. Please observe 
this request, as the cheer
leaders can get better re
sults in cheering if the stu
dents are located in a 
group.
5. The visiting teams are our 
guests; treat them accord
ingly at all times.
6. The Kiltie Band will be 
seated in the front part of 
section 8.
Clan
The Pittsburgh Women's 
Clan will hold its opening 
meeting Tuesday, September 
28, in the Mary B. Breed Me
morial Hall. The speaker for 
the evening will be Dean Rice 
of the College of Fine Arts. 
This is the alumni organiza
tion of women graduated from 
Carnegie Tech.
Our game of football goes back 
2,500 long years ago, when the 
Greeks played Episkuros. The 
sport of kicking a ball around was 
passed down through the Romans, 
who brought it to the British Isles 
in the first century, A.D. Ameri
can football inherited from Brit
ish rugby used 25, 20, 15, or 11 
men, as the teams chose by mut
ual agreement before the game.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS 
 TRY US FIRST 
Oakland Hardware3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Jazz At Mosque 
On October 1
A concert by a hand-picked ag
gregation of jazzdoms most ac
complished practitioners is set for 
Oct. 1 in Syria Mosque, when 
Norman Granz world-famed Jazz 
at the Philharmonic comes to 
town again. The 1954 lineup reads 
like an honor guard of the jazz 
realm. Handling the vocals will be 
Ella Fitzgerald, on drums will be | 
Buddy Rich and Louis Bellson, and 
battling it out on trumpet will be 
Dizzy Gillespie and Roy Eldridge. 
Flip Perdido Phillips and Ben 
Webster will be heard on sax. Add 
piano wizard Oscar Peterson with 
bassist Ray Brown and guitarist I 
Herb Ellis, clarinetist Buddy de j 
Franco and trombonist Bill Harris, I 
and it totals up to a session of 
really exciting jazz.
Tickets are now on* sale at the 
R. E. Baltz Agency, Volkweins, ! 
632 Liberty avenue, and also at 1 
Gimbels and Hornes. Mail ofders | 
are accepted. Send a check or! 
money order to the R. E. Baltz 
Agency. Be .sure to include a self- i 
addressed starrjped envelope for | 
the return of your tickets.
camera inspection!
Now s the time to bring your 
camera in for a free check-up. 
Well give it a thorough going 
over. If repairs are necessary, a 
cost estimate will be submitted.
Your Complete 
Camera Store
24-48 hour developing 
copies and photostats
Visit our new . . .
ART SUPPLY 
DEPARTMENT
Fotoshop
SQUIRREL HILL 
5854 Forbes St. - HA 1-6883
Open Eveilings Tues. and 
Thurs. til 9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 2, 1954
Editorial
New Facilities
Generally speaking, Carnegie Techs fa
cilities compare favorably with those of most 
sch6ols of a similar size. Our classrooms are 
adequate, our labs are for the most part 
modern and well-equipped, the housing 
problem will be solved with the completion 
of the new dorm, and the cafeteria, though 
often criticized, does serve meals. However, 
in two areas our facilities at Tech are sadly 
inadequate; we need a student union and a 
new library building! Let us look at these 
two cases separately and justify our previous 
statement.
First of all, we need a student union. For 
the past years the facilities of a union were 
offered somewhat haphazardly by a combi
nation of the Carnegie Union, Carnegie Inn, 
and Skibo. The Union gave us a place to 
hold meetings, the Inn a place to spend 
leisure time, and Skibo a place to eat. Now, 
however, since the Inn has been razed to 
make way for the new mens dorm, there is 
no place on campus at all where the students 
can spend any of their leisure hours. Fur
thermore, the remaining facilities are scat
teredpart in Skibo, the rest in the Union 
across campus. Yes, what we need is a stu
dent union in which facilities will be en
larged and centralized.
In our opinion the student union should include in its 
facilities the following features:
1A cafeteria which could handle the long lines more 
efficiently than Skibo now does.
2Lounging and recreational areas which should in
clude lounges, a soda fountain, ping-pong, cards and 
tables, etc. In general, it should be a suitable place 
to spend occasional leisure hours.
3Meeting and confrence rooms where the school's 
many clubs and activities could hold their meetings.
This list is not just a figment of our imagination, but an 
actual list of the features of dozens of student unions over 
the country. Many have even more facilities. At the Uni
versity of Connecticut, for example, the student union con
tains all the above features plus a giant ballroom and a record 
room with a large collection of classical and semi-classical 
records. We, however, could be pleased with less than is 
offered by this imposing illustration.
Secondly, we need a new library building. True, we 
have a wonderful collection of books here at Tech but they 
are scattered from one end of the campus to the other in 
seven separate locations. Too many times in the past three 
years we have had to visit two, or even three or four, of the 
libraries before completing an assignment. This situation is 
not good and could be eliminated with the construction of 
a new library, making it more convenient on both the stu
dents and the instructors.
In addition, a new centralized library could be run more 
efficiently than the six we now have. One would certainly not 
require the amount of help which is now employed in the six, 
because many overlapping jobs could be eliminated upon cen
tralization. For eample, now there are always eight or nine per
sons working at checkout desks. In one library that many per
sons could not conceivably be needed at checkout desks.
The Tartan realizes that the problem here discussed is 
recognized and under study by both the administration and 
the alumni. We wish them to know, however, that the stu
dent body is also aware of these shortcomings in the schools 
facilities and is interested in hearing from time to time about 
the progress being made to fill these needs. It is our hope 
that this editorial may serve as another prod to get facilities 
which are badly needed for Tech students.
po-cdJjThe Library Problem
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hours MUseum 3-2312, for advertising and subscription rates 
call MUseum 2-3990. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................t..........................................................Paul Carmichael
Executive Editor .......................................................................... ...................................Wilson Sick
Bnsiarss Manager .......................... ............................ ................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor ............................................................................................................................Jo Forsythe
\wi Editor ................................................................................................................. June SochatofI
Sports editor ................................................................ ............................................Lenny Feldman
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of Match 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate 
of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press. ,Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions $1.10 
per year.
Old Article Tells 
Tartan  T roubles
Tuesday noon finds the corridor of Engineering 
Hall, Administration Hall, and Skibo jammed with 
students anxiously (?) awaiting delivery of the 
Tartan. When they finally arrive, a riot ensues 
as hands reach forward in an effort to grab a 
copy or three, resulting in casualties to several 
persons, including the delivery bdy who is usually 
incapacitated for a week (incidentally the circu
lation staff requests more gentle treatment of its 
representatives).
But this weekly fracas is mild compared to the 
gnashing of teeth and grunts and snorts heard 
about the campus when the Tartan fails to appear 
at the scheduled time. As the editorial staff slinks 
over to Administration Hall for its weekly meeting 
held at the same hour, trying to ignore the casti
gations of disappointed readers, it finds its troubles 
have just begun. Waiting on the steps of the 
Union are hopefuls from all organizations of the 
school who wish their announcements, invitations, 
and post-mortems to appear in the next issue.
Comes Friday, and the make-up editor finds 
himself surrounded by 37 neophytes demanding 
column one, page one for their two inch story 
on Professor Livrewriters lecture to the Interna
tional Congress of Amalgamated Flag Pole Sitters on 
The Relation Between Church Steeples and Flagless Flagpoles. Meanwhile 14 other junior editors 
say they are sorry but their stories wont be in 
till midnight and meanwhile please excuse them 
while they visit the International, attend the mati
nee, or play touch football.
The editor in charge of heads walks in after all 
the head writing writers have gone home to din
ner and demands to know why he cant get any co
operation. Meanwhile six people have come into the 
office insisting they be permitted to see where the 
story will be placed in the paper and when told that 
we dont know yet they raise a big fuss about 
it just has to get in and so on until the staff 
shoves them out of the room and down the stairs. 
The great work goes on and the hours roll swiftly 
by.
Late Sunday evening when the make-up editor 
is breathing a sigh of relief as he marks down the 
last few words on the sheet in front of him, a 
hatless, coatless, and breathless reporter dashes in 
and announces Its marvelous! Wonderful! Whew! 
and is thereby stunned with Youll have to change 
the whole front page. Its fhe scoop of the week 
and I refuse to cut an inch.
A fight then ensues between Scoop and the re
porters whose articles would have to be moved to 
make room for the new story. After the dead and 
wounded have been cleared by the conscientious 
janitor who comments "Please dont leave this place 
so messy, the harassed make-up editor decides to 
have two front pages and so the Tartan goes to 
press.
Editors Note: This column was taken from the 
Tuesday, November 22, 1939, issue of the Tartan. 
Seeing it made us realize that although times do 
change students are still worrying about the same 
I problems as those before us.
The Inquiring
Reporter
By Dick Wolfe
This week the Inquiring Reporters question was, 
What would your opinion be of an unlimited cut 
system here at Carnegie Tech?
John Hart, associate professor of EnglishAn
unlimited cut system might appear to be a students 
dream but wbuld prove in practice to be a night
mare. The responsibility of attending classes on 
his own would be too great for many a socializer 
or employed student. For students like this, the 
system would be fatal, since courses at Tech de
pend heavily on class-to-class development. Stu
dents eventually would come to know fetter, but 
why take five or six years to do what can now be 
done in four?
Jim Gore, Industrial Managerent, JuniorIn 
my opinion the individual student should be left 
to his or her own discretion as far as the cutting 
of classes is concerned. Each is paying the school 
for the privilege of instruction so that it is not 
up to the institution as to whether or not every
one attends all classes. The professors are paid if 
they teach 15 eager learners or 30 bored ones.
Beside^ if a person is old enough and intelli
gent enough to be in college, he should be capable 
of deciding whether or not going to a certain class 
regularly is worth his time. Some students need 
a lot of time on one subject and can afford to miss 
classes in their good subjects.
Donald K. Carter, sophomore, Painting & De
signIt is my own personal belief that cuts should 
be unlimited. I feel that by the time a person 
reaches college he should know just what he ex
pects of himself as well as what the school ex
pects of him. If he is not mature enough to dis
cipline himself accordingly or is unable to meet 
these standards, he has no business being in school 
and undobutedly wont be there long. Therefore, 
I see no reason why the school should have to place 
such restrictions upon him. After all, it is his fu
ture that is at stake. If he is really desirous of 
an education, he will strive to get it without these 
school regulations to govern him.
Harry Watson, metalurgy, juniorI would like 
to see the cut limit raised to say five a semester. 
Often there are petty illnesses or situations that 
arise which make it necessary for the student to 
cut some classes. We as students should have 
more freedom in this respect since, after all, we 
are going to school because we want to. It is our 
responsibility to get what is being offered in a 
course. There are some who cannot afford to miss 
a single class. Others get along nicely even though 
they miss classes. I find the professors are mostly 
broad minded on this subject if the student is do
ing well.
John H. Bos, drama, sophomoreContrary to 
much opinion, I think the present cut system is a 
neces6ary evil, at least for the freshman and, pos
sibly, sophomore years.
Many freshman, upon gaining the new-found* 
freedom of college life, are likely to use this free
dom to the wrong end. If there was no cut sys
tem, the undisciplined person might take the wrong 
advantage of such a situation.
However, coinciding with much opinion, I am 
in favor of an unlimited cut system for the juniors 
and seniors. If, after two years at Tech, a student 
can maintain a high factor and, at the same time, 
miss classes (a feat most difficult to accomplish) 
then, as somebody wise once said, let his con
science be his guide. A good student knows that 
his whole life may depend largely upon the out
come of his college career and therefore governs 
himSelf accordingly.
il)
0)
il
S)
Editors Note: The TARTAN staff is interested 
in hearing any suggestion you might have that 
could be used for questions in the inquiring re
porter column. This column is designed to test 
student sentiment around the campus on questions 
of general interest. If there is anything you feel 
should be included please drop a line to the TARTAN through intraschool mail in care of the paper.
We are also very interested in finding out what 
you like and dislike about the paper. Your com
ments are the only way we have of knowing what 
parts of the paper meet approval and what sections 
do not. The few who are on the staff can not always 
tell what articles meet general approval. It is your 
paper and any suggestions would be appreciated. 
All that you have to do is write your views on a 
sheet of paper and put it in an envelope addressed 
to the TARTAN and drop it in the intraschool mail 
slot at the campus post office.
The Editor, Tartan;
Dear Interested Spectator,
. Its obvious why no one sings the Alma Mater. 
Signed,
Music Lover.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 2, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
Tartan Starters 
Show Strength 
In Heavy Line
by David Steu
End Don Hrosik, presently a 
junior, hails from Homestead. De
scribed as hard-charging, he is 
expected to fill one of the vacant 
end posts. The other will un
doubtedly be held by Charlie Luchok, a junior, alumnus of Center
ville High School, and a resident 
of Richeyville. His fingers are 
glued for passes, and, like 
Hrosik, he is a letterman with ade
quate experience in college foot
ball.
Tackle Frank Wengrzyn, whose 
name graces Colliers Pro Scouting 
List, is a Trafford, Pa. man and a 
junior here at CIT. Both he and 
his cohort John McCarthy add 
weight to the forward wall. John, 
a senior, is a former student at 
North Catholic- high school here in 
Pittsburgh.
Guard John Williamson of Dormont, a senior this year, is de
scribed as a shifting, hard-charg
ing scrapper. He will do his best 
to Ive up to his well-earned repu
tation, as will Ed Karcher, since 
both men are hard-pressed in the 
starting position. Eds an alumnus 
of Pittsburghs Carrick high school 
and is currently in his junior year.
Center A1 Schell, senior letter
man, is said to have no peer at 
the keystone. A1 hails from Mercersburg High School in Aliquippa, 
and is expected to repeat the out
standing performance he turned 
in as a 60-minute man last season.
Speedy quarterback Phil Jeske, 
a senior from Ferguson, Mo. is 
teamed with Guy Carricato of 
Sharpsburg, presently a senior. 
These two will be the mainstays 
throughout the season.
Halfback Eddie Miller, triple 
threat man of the 1953 season, will 
rate he starting post again this 
year. Eddie is a senior from Home
stead.
Roy DeVries, a junior from Clif
ton, Pa. is contending with another 
veteran, Bill Kennedy, a represen
tative of Pittsburghs Peabody high 
school and a senior at CIT, for the 
wing-back post.
Fullback Jim Blatt, from Mt. 
Lebanoi high school, is presently a 
junior. He is a rugged and hard
hitting letterman as is his partner, 
Jesse Quatse, a sophomore and 
alumnus of Schenley high school. 
Both should give the Tartans 
plenty of punch through the 
middle.
Intramural Board 
Asks Attendance 
At Next Meeting
The intramural board will meet 
Tuesday, at 12:30 p.m., to elect 
officers. All organizations on the 
board are urged to attend. The 
organizations now on the board 
are: Sigma Nu, Beta Sigma Rho, 
Theta Xi, Kappa Sigma, Alpha 
Tau Omega, Tau Delta Phi, Citcom, Obelisks, and president of 
the managers club. Three more 
members of the Board have yet to 
be chosen.
Field Hockey
It is not too late for anyone 
interested in playing W.A.A. field 
hockey to join the team. Miss 
Barthelomy, the coach, holds 
practices at 4:3Q on Monday, 
Tuesday and Thursday. This 
years schedule includes Pitt and 
PCW, and nearby prep and high 
schools have been contacted for 
games.
Need Money!
The intramural department 
needs officials for refereeing 
the intramural football games, 
and is offering the magnifi
cent sum of $1 for someone 
to stand around and watch 
two teams play. If you are in
terested in officiating, and 
making an easy dollar by 
standing around for an hour 
and a half watching games 
that you would normally 
watch, contact Mr. See in the 
gym office.
20
) WALLET kS^j 
PHOTOS7 I
or 50 for $2.00
No2TNU ES,POF PICTURE
MADE FROM 
YOUR 
PORTRAIT
Perfect for giving friends, rela- tives and classmates. Printed on best quality silk - finis;ZW x SV*" double weight paper
Send one dollar with any size picture. Your original retunied unharmed. Minimum order 20 wallet photos from one pose. Satisfaction guaranteed or your money back,
MAIL TO-DAY CO. 
p. O. Box 111*, Altoona, Pa.
Enclosed is $.......tor pictures
Name ................................................
Address ...................................
City Zone( >State
Carnegie Day
Organizations wishing to 
make calls or give awards at 
Carnegie day are to call Vir
ginia Schultz at MU 2-8895 
immediately unless previously 
contacted by mail.
Intramural Touch Football Schedule
 Tartan League
ASCE 
ATO A
Kappa Sigma 
Static Charges 
Tech Gems 
Phi Kappa
FIELD NO. I 
Near TDP House
Sept. 29ATO A-PK 
Sept. 30KS-Gems 
Oct. 1Charges-SAG 
Oct. 2ASCE-Gems
FIELD NO. 2
Oct. 5ATO A-SAE 
Oct. 6KS-Charges 
Oct. 7SAE-PK 
Oct. 8ASCE-Charges 
Oct. 9ATO A-KS
FIELD NO. 3
Oct. 12Gems-Charges 
Oct. 13PK-KS 
Oct. 14ASCE-ATO B 
Oct. 15SAE-KS
Kiltie League
1. Delta Tau Delta
2. Citcom
3. Tau Delta Phi
4. AIEE
5. Pi Kappa Alpha
6. Eagles
7. Theta Xi
FIELD NO. 3 
Middle
Sept. 29CIT-TX 
Sept. 30TDP-Eagles 
Oct. 1AIEE-PKA 
Oct. 2DTD-Eagles
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Field No. 3
5CIT-PKA
6TDP-AIEE
7PKA-TX
8DTD-AIEE
9CIT-TDP
FIELD NO. 1
Oct. 12Eagles-AIEE 
Oct. 13TX-TDP 
Oct. 14DTD-Cit 
Oct. 15PKA-TDP
Golf
Any students interested in 
fall tryouts for the golf team 
should see Coach Rogers in 
AH 164 before Friday, Octo
ber I.
T arquans
The first meeting of Tarquans, Techs swimming club, 
will be held on Tuesday, Sep
tember 28, in the pool at 7:00 
p.m. Anyone interested in 
swimming is invited to attend.
Skibo Loagiie
1. Beta Theta Pi
2. Delta Upsilon
3. ATO B
4. Obelisks
5. Sigma Nu
6. Newman Club
7. Beta Sigma Rho
FIELD NO. 3 
Near Margaret Morrison St.
Sept. 29DU-BSR
Sept. 30ATO B-New\ Cl.
Oct. 1Obel.-SN.
Oct. 2BTP-New. Cl.
FIELD NO. 1
Oct. 5DU-SN
Oct. 6ATO B-Obel.
Oct. 7SN-BSR 
Oct. 8BTP-Obel.
Oct. 9DU-ATO B
FIELD NO. 2
Oct. 12New. Cl.-Ober.
Oct. 13BSR-ATO B'
Oct. 14BTP-DU 
Oct. 15SN-ATO B"
Rules
1. Game Time: 4:30 p.m. Games 
must start by 4:45 or be for
feited.
2. Players: Basketball or touch 
football shoes are regulation 
shoes. No low tennis shoes al
lowed. Ankle wraps must be 
worn by all players.
STUDENTS!
Got a Lucky Droodle 
in your noodle?
SEND IT IN AND
MAN PLAYING TROMBONI 
IN TELEPHONE BOOTH
Want to pick up $25? Make up a Lucky 
Droodle and send it in. Its easy.
If you want to find out just how easy it 
is, ask Roger Price, creator of Droodles. 
Very! Price says. Better yet, do a Droodle 
yourself, like the ones shown here.
Droodle anything you like. And send in 
as many as you want. If we select yours, 
well pay $25 for the right to use it, together 
with your name, in our advertising. Were 
going to print plentyand lots that we 
dont print will earn $25 awards.
Draw your Droodles any size, on any piece 
of paper, and send them with your descrip
tive titles to Lucky Droodle, P. O. Box 67, 
New York 46, N. Y. Be sure your name, 
address, college and class are included.
While youre droodling, light up a Lucky 
the cigarette that tastes better because 
its made of fine tobacco . . . and Its 
Toasted to taste better.
DROODLES, Copyright, 1953, by Roger Price
SHIP ARRIVING TOO LATI 
TO SAVE DROWNING WITCHA. T. Co. 195OTo2 orJi < a. eco- Gny>o ry
ITS TOASTED
to taste better!
AMERICA'S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
FLASH!
LUCKIES LEAD AGAIN IN COLLEGES!
Newest, biggest survey of smokers in colleges from coast to coast, based on 
34,440 actual student interviews, shows that students prefer Luckies to all 
other brands. Once again, the No. 1 reason: Luckies taste better.

---------------------------------------------------

Page ftCARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 28, 1954
rtcOiu/joricope
By LENNY FELDMAN
The intramural program at Tech finally is reaching its status 
as a separate entity, especially with the greater latitude of freedom 
recently given to it. No longer does one have to go through the tor
turous strength test, nor submit oneself to the calisthenics fiends in 
gym to be eligible to play intramural sports, but by the same token 
participation in intramural sports will not be accepted as credit toward 
any gym requirement. How will this ruling affect the intramural 
program? There are a number of possibilities, but I don't think there 
will be any noticeable effects, detrimental or otherwise, in the brand 
of ballplaying in the near future.
It does, however, give the governing boards of the intramural 
program more power in deciding who is and who isnt eligible. This 
fact may serve as the basis for many arguments and quarrels to 
come unless the intramural board can take a firm stand before any 
ruckus begins which is something that they have never been able 
to do before.
Their first meeting of the semester opened and closed at the 
same time, when only a couple of the members of the board showed 
up, which is a show of indifference and lack of organization. Since 
the students will now be almost in complete charge of governing 
the intramural program, they had better decide now to take more 
of an active interest before they find themselves up to their ears 
in complete confusion.
Football
Though Tech won its first game of the year ,they may not have 
"dame fortune smiling on them this coming Saturday. Penalties 
and a couple of fumbles saved the day for the Plaid aggregation last 
week. Westminster had a touchdown called back, and also fumbled 
inside Techs ten yard line.
This game pointed out Tech's inept aerial offense, a fact which 
may spell the difference in their coming game with Lafayette. Against 
Westminster the Tartan line was able to open up holes to set little 
Eddie Miller free; but against a bigger Lafayette line they will cer
tainly have their troubles. In the Westminster game, Tech attempted 
seven passes, had two intercepted, and gained a magnificent total of 
12 yards via the airways. From where I sit, Doc Baker and his boys 
will have trouble pulling this one out of the fire. If they do, and 
there is a chance, they may go all the way to an unbeaten season.
Tartan Football Contest
TARTAN FOOTBALL ENTRY BLANK
Games of October 2, 1954 
Score Team
---------- Minnesota
---------- Carnegie Tech
--------- Navy
--------- Penn State
---------- Brown
---------- Princeton
---------- Army
---------- So. California
---------- Wisconsin%---------- California
--------- Purdue
--------- Tennessee
---------- North Carolina
--------- West Virginia
--------- Texas A & M
--------- Illinois
Team
Pitt
Lafayette
Dartmouth
Syracuse
Yale
Columbia
Michigan
Northwestern
Michigan State
Ohio State
Notre Dame
Duke
Tulane
So. Carolina
Georgia
Stanford
Score
NAME ......................................DEPT.CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
A 1954 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTANS weekly football contest.%Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
days games.
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.
2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final 
score of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct 
decisions; in case of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of 
the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by 
midnight Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry 
is submitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will 
be announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges 
is final.6. Winner of each week's contest will receive a 1954 Thistle subscription, 
redeemable at the time of publication.
*""V
Carnegie Blanks Titans 6-0
Eddie Millers 46 Yard Run And 
Dazzling Play Sparks Tech Tartans
by Jim Lacey
The Plaid football team got the 1954 season off in high gear as 
they edged out the rugged Westminster Titans, 6-0, reversing the 
score of the previous year.
After a scoreless first half Tech scored by virtue of Eddie Millers
scintillating run of 46 yards to ?---------------------------------------------------
pay dirt. Roy DeVries attempt 
for the extra point was low.
Westminster dominated the whole 
first half as Harold Davis, quar
terback, engineered penetration 
after penetration into Scot terri
tory only to see the Tech line rise 
up and halt the drives. The Titans 
drove to the one yard line only to 
fumble. They also had a touch
down pass from Davis to White 
called back due to a holding pen
alty.
Second Half
As soon as the second half be
gan the Tartans completely took 
control of the game. After their 
touchdown drive they got the ball 
again and didnt relinquish it until 
early in the fourth period. With a 
little less than two minutes to 
play in the game, Westminster 
made a last desperate try, with 
Davis fading and heaving the ball 
into Tech territory. The ball 
bounded off the finger tips of a 
Scot defender into the hands of 
Vince Cortese who lateraled the 
ball to another Titan, who then 
fumbled and both teams bobbled 
the elusive pigskin with Bill White 
of Westminster finally falling on 
the ball.
Outplayed
Though Tech won the ballgame 
they were statistically outplayed 
except in the departments of yards 
gained, in which they lead by 220 
to 130, and first downs, in which 
they had 15 to 9 for the Titans. 
Techs senior from Homestead, Ed
die Miller took the individual 
ground gaining with 123 net yards 
in 24 carries, and generally played 
a whale of a ballgame. The Ti
tans Bill White gained 60 yards in 
only 5 tries.
With this years victory Tech 
now leads Westminster in a series 
that dates back to 1907, with a rec
ord of 10 wins, five losses, and one 
tie.
Next week Coach Bakers squad 
will travel to Easton, Pennsylva
nia where they meet the highly 
rated Lafayette Leopards, under 
the leadership of Steve Hokuf.
The statistics:
WESTMINSTEREndsCortese Moss.
TacklesKuklin, Pulling.
GuardsSylvester, Morrell, Stewart. 
CenterFreshwater.
BacksDavis, Lander. White, D. Brown,DeBolt.
CARNEGIE TECH
EndsFicery, Hrosik, Stofen, Cassett,
McQuigan, Lomchok.
TacklesWengrzen, McCarthy, Novak. 
GuardsWilliamson, Karcher, Capul,Wesver, Kohan.
CenterShell.
BacksJeske, M. Brown, DeVries, Miller,
Kennedy, Tucci, Brine, Blatt, Quatse.
Carnegie Tech....................0 0 0 6 0-6TouchdownMiller.
RefereeA. P. Wildman. Linesman 
David Jones. Field JudgeHenie Boil.Statistics
CARNEGIE TECH WESTMINSTER
222...........Yards Gained Rushing............130
2............... Passes Attempted ............ 11
2............... Passes Completed ............... 5
2............... Passes Intercepted .............. 1
15.................... First Downs .................... 9
4.......................... Punts . ........................ 4
37...........Average Yards Punts............31
18.... Yards Returned Punts
2........................ Fumbles ...............
1. ... Own Fumbles Recovered 
5...................... Penalties .............
12.... Yards Gained on Passes
57.... Yards Lost on Penalties
First Tartan Football 
Contest Won By A Girl
The first contest for the 1954 
football season ended in a tie as 
Jeanie Walker, a sophomore 
Maggie Murph, (Ed. Note: A 
GirV. fellows, take note.) and 
Andy Vasey a sophomore metal
lurgist, both named 10 of the 15 
winners correctly in the weekly 
Tartan contest, and both had 
identical point spreads, something 
that probably will never happen 
again.
A certificate for the 1954 
Thistle will be sent to the win
ners of the contest by the Tartan 
sports editor as soon as possible.
Jeanette Meet Will 
Open Season Oct. 2
By Joe Szwec
Cross country, a sport in which 
the Tartans rank very high, has 
again arrived on the athletic 
scene. The season will officially 
open Oct. 2 with a home meet 
against the Jeanette Harriers.
Carnegies runners have gone 
unbeaten in 17 consecutive meets 
extending over a three year 
period. They copped the TriState Championship in 1951, plac
ed second in 1952, and regained 
the title last year. Together, the 
Tech cross country and track 
squads have been victorious in 
44 straight meets, a record of 
which to be proud.
54 Outlook
This year for the first time in 
many years Tech will meet a 
class A district team. On Oct. 
12 West Virginia will invade the 
Tech campus. The CIT team ex
pects a tough meet, especially in 
light of the loss of five of last 
years seven starters, but believes 
that with the stiffer competition 
the running times will be faster.
In general, the coming season 
should be the toughest season in 
many years mainly because of the 
losses of lettermen from last year. 
To add to this, every team in the 
schedule will be at least as strong 
as last year since most of them 
have lost no one from their team 
of last year. A great deal will de
pend upon Mai Gilles, senior from 
Youngstown, and Hap McDonald.
1954 Tartan Crosscountry Roster
Squad:
**Mal GilliesSnElee EYoungstown, O.Co. Capt.
Harold Hap McDonaldSnP&DMars, Pa.Co. Capt.
Jim FlynnJrArchWilkinsburg, Pa.
Bill BryantSophMetMonaca, Pa.
Dave BrodineJrChemMidland, Pa.
Dick SwaneySophMetTarentum, Pa.
Paul McCannJr.IAPittsburgh, Pa.
Mike DriscollSrChem ENew York
Hubert HartmannFroshFairfield, N. Y.
Bill HudsonSophElecENew York ^
- Cy PendletonSoph
Reginald BethelFroshMusicPittsburgh, Pa.
Roy Whitney FroshPrintSwissvale, Pa.
?Indicates probable starters (7 out of 9indicated)
??Indicates returning men from last year.
Manager: Joe Santacroce, Warren Schmidt. Coach: Bob Carman.
The United States National 
Park service maintains 173 mon
uments to the wonders of nature. 
In the 21,820,000 acres of parks 
will be found some of the rarest 
wonders of the worldhuge bril
liantly colored natural caverns, 
shifting pure white sands over 
miles of deserts, towering solid 
granite cliffs, dizzying white wa
terfalls, weird bubbling hot 
springs and geysers.
Patronize
Tartan
. > . ' 'Advertisers
rMl-CU MetropoliUn Bctttlnf C., PHUbargh !, P.
Pittsburgh
Symphony Orchestra
WILLIAM STEINBERG, Musical Director and Conductor
28. SEASON OPENS OCT. 22 24
FRIDAY Evenings and SUNDAY Afternoons at SYRIA MOSQUE
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
20 Concerts $  TOO I 20 Concerts $
Afternoon Series9
00ao =m = Evening Series
Tickets: Mrs. King in the OCT. 4*
Registrar's Office Beginning9 to 3:30

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 28, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage f
l>OD STAR
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. 
Smoke only Camels for 30 days  see 
for yourself why Camels cool mildness 
and rich flavor agree with more people 
than any other cigarette!
Severn I years ago,
 -found oub Cahvels have 
~ih& most delightful 
flax/or and t^i iciness of 
any cigar ette.lry 
Cancels and you'll be 
as emtloMSiastic as 11
CARNEGltJ 
\ t // ih// /
r\ilMr!
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor .....................................................................................Kathy Galligan
Managing: Editor ..........................................................................Victor Sabol
Circulation Manager  ................................................................James Soltis
Reporters ....................................................Dolores Neff, Edna Thorwart
Council Plans Smoker 
For Evening Students
For the first time since the beginning of World War II Evening 
Student Council has added to the social calendar a smoker for all 
male evening students. This affair, unlike most others for the even
ing students, is free of charge. ?------------------------------------------------
The reason for having a smoker 
at this time of the year is to ac
quaint the students at Carnegie 
Tech for the first time with the 
various organizations and ways of 
evening students at Tech. The 
chairman for the affair has prom
ised to have on hand a represen
tative from each of the various 
evening school organizations to 
say a few words as to the type and 
purpose of their individual organ
izations. Also on hand will be a 
representative of the evening 
school administration.
The evenings activities, begin
ning at 8:30 p.m., will include free 
smokes, movies and light refresh
ments. It is hoped that along with and for the first time in the sororthe new students many of the old 
students of Carnegie evening 
school will be on hand to help 
make the affair a success. Come 
and find out first hand what even
ing school has to offer you during 
the coming year.
Remember!! Everything is free 
both new and old students are 
invited to attend. See you at the 
Carne ie Union, Saturday evening, 
October 2 at 8:30 p.m.
Phi Gamma Pi 
Plans Program
Phi Gamma Pi held its first 
meeting of the year on Sunaay af
ternoon, September 19, at the Car
negie Union. The officers for this 
year are: President, Gini Ross; 
Vice President, Theresa Ammannito; Recording Secretary, Do
lores Neff; Corresponding Secre
tary, Lillian Staub; Treasurer, 
Lorraine Stahle. Appointments to 
office were: Historian, Lana Knezak; Publicity, Audrey Wiscow;
itys history, the appointment of 
two pledge mistressesLois and 
Noreen Conley.
The first tea of the year, to be 
held on Sunday, October 10, at 
2:00 p.m. at the Carnegie Union, 
is to acquaint prospective mem
bers with the sorority. Theresa 
Ammannito and Marjorie Reed 
are in charge of the afternoons 
affair, which promises to be very 
entertaining.
Super 
Snooper
We are happy to once again 
see everyone back at evening 
school ready to commence another 
year of educational endeavor. We 
hope you may all have a success
ful and fruitful year at evening 
school and will take advantage 
of the many social and scholastic 
opportunities offered.
Mis-spending of time is a 
kind of self -homicide .
Probably one of the first things 
evening students noticed at regis
tration was the unusual absence 
of Mr. McKelway, who is always 
faithful at evening school affairs. 
We are happy to see him back at 
his old post in the evening school 
office and hope he will not be 
absent again because of illness 
vacations are permissable.
Those who eat too much 
are as weak as those who 
starve< 
The Tech Wives Club wishes to 
announce that beginning Tuesday, 
October 12, it will hold its regular 
monthly meeting and urges all 
members to attend and start this 
year off with a 100% attendance 
record.
Good words are worth 
much and cost little.
Some of you may be interested 
to know that evening school en
rollment this year is 1097; a lower 
figure than previous years, but 
nevertheless an indication of 
high ambitions by a lot of people.
Life is a continual grind 
and we are either ground 
down or polished up  de
pending on the stuff we are 
made of.
Some of you will be surprised to 
learn that former evening student 
Bill Bartoli is now* a married 
man and very happy about same. 
He is now taking day classes at 
Tech and teaching evening cook
ing classes.
Automobiles do not run 
down as many people as gos
sip does.
Some of the evening students 
registered in architecture classes 
may be interested to know that 
ican Institute of Architects is
sponsoring a series of fine lec
tures here at Carnegie Tech. 
Many highly qualified speakers 
will be featured at these dinners 
men who come from all sec- i 
tions of the country. At the first | 
meeting this fall a speaker from 
MIT will be present, which 
should prove a strong attraction 
for a large number of people. A 
schedule of dates will be an
nounced in the near future.
Definition of a vacation: 2 
weeks which are 2 short, after 
which you are 2 tired 2 re
turn 2 work and 2 broke not 
2
The first play of the season at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse will 
start on October 2 at the Hamlet 
Street theater. It is entitled My 
Three Angels and tickets are 
now on sale. All indications are 
that it will be a very popular pro
duction and one you will not want 
to miss.
Minds are like parachutes. 
They .wont function unless 
open.
PIFSCO will hold its fall picnic 
at South Park on October 3, 1954. 
All Newman Club members are 
invited to come and bring their 
friends. It will be a basket picnic 
from 12:00 till 12:00. A weiner 
roast is scheduled at 9:30 p.m.
It is always with the best 
intentions that we do the 
most regrettable things.
Any of you who may be inter
ested in dancing lessons of any 
type or variety are hereby notified 
-that Miss Joanne Neff, friend and 
helper at evening school func
tions, is opening the Joanne Neff 
Dante Studio at 5134 Penn ave
nue, EM 1-5565. You may contact 
her for further information.
The safest way to double 
your money is to fold it over 
and put it back in your 
pocket.
Evening Student Council will 
hold its first meeting of the year 
on Sunday afternoon, October 3, 
1954, at 2:00 p.m. in the Car
negie Union.
Regret is an .appalling 
waste of energy; you cant 
build on it. Its only good for 
wallowing in.
Our evening school Newman 
Club was very active this sum
mer with many social events held
Newmans Expect 
Successful Year 
With New Program
Evening school Newman Club 
in carrying out the three-fold 
purpose of the organization has 
incorporated the religious and ed
ucational aspect of the program 
in with their meetings held at the 
Carnegie Union on the second 
Sunday of every month. A calen
dar of religious discussion ses
sions has been mailed to all Cath
olic students attending CIT eve
ning school. The first meeting and 
discussion session will be held 
on Sunday, October 10, 1954 at 
7:30 p.m. at the Carnegie Union 
on Forbes street. Anyone not 
having yet joined the organization 
is invited to do so at this time.
The third purpose of the New
man Club, social events, will be 
carried out at other times during 
the semester. The first social event 
of the current school year was a 
picnic at the Hemlocks Grove in 
North Park held last Sunday. 
Judging from the turnout, the 
club will* really be moving thi* 
year.
Future socials call for such 
events as a spaghetti dinner, 
swimming and bowling parties^ 
and an Orphans Christmas party. 
Watch this page for announce
ments of future events.
Elections
Elections for freshmen class 
officers will be held on Tues
day, October 12, from 11:30 
ajn. to 1:30 p.m. Candidates 
for any of the six offices may 
obtaiji petitions for nomina
tion in Dean Davids office, 
AH 150-A.
Petitions must be returned 
to Dean Davids office by 1:30 
p.m. Tuesday, October 5.
during the summer months. Many 
of its members attended the light 
operas, played tennis, and partici
pated in a lecture series at Sti 
Pauls Monastery. If the coming 
socials are as successful, thii 
should be a wonderful winter.
and how it started.
TERESjj. WRIGHT says: Up to 16, my knowledge of acting 
had been gleaned from seeing movies. When I saw my first 
professional play, that was it: I only wanted to act. I got into 
high school plays, wrestled props at Provincetown, understudied, 
sat for months in producers' reception rooms. One rainy 
night, sick with a cold, I read for a good role, and got it!
SUCCESS STORY: 
CamelsAmericas most popular 
cigarette...by far!
Dr.Wal
-ft
^ft
AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE
R. J. fie>noUU Tobacco Csmiimj. Wlniton-Sataa, N. Cl

---------------------------------------------------

THIS IS IT!
OR REGULAR
I*M-AMERICAS HIGHEST QUALITY FILTER CIGARETTE
> Deem At DrTE W5aNoo5 l5t
Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 28, 1954
Pan-Hell
[Cortinued from page 1] 
ing under a quota system. No 
group is allowed to have more 
than 50 members at a time and 
can only take 12 regular students 
and two transfers during this 
rush period.
On October 11 each sorority 
will turn in two lists to the Dean 
of Womens office. On the first 
will be listed as many names of 
girls as the sorority wants to 
take. The second list, in preferen
tial order, will include other 
names the sorority will accept in 
order to fill its quota.
Each rushee on the same day 
turns in to the deans office the 
three sororities she is considering 
in preferential order. The sorority 
lists and the rushee lists are then 
matched. The girls are then given 
a written bid and they must make 
a reply the same evening.
This is followed by a period of 
open bidding where a sorority 
may bid any eligible girl which 
lasts till the next rush period.
Carnegie Institute 
Has New Galleries 
For Collection
For the first time since the ince> i on of the department of fine 
arts, the permanent collection of 
paintings at the Carnegie Insti
tute has been arranged with re
gard to school and chronological 
order. Mr. Gordon B. Washburn, 
director of the department, has 
recently completed the redecora
tion and rehanging of the galleries, 
breaking the collection into three 
distinct sections, with wall colors 
indicating separation of periods.
Gallery A on the second floor 
now houses the  Old Master sec
tion. The J. Willis Dalzell collec
tion, with its emphasis on the 
Engiish portrait school, has been 
removed from the Music Hall foy
er and installed with the other 
paintings. The hanging area of 
the gallery has been painted a 
Venetian red.
Gallery B contains paintings of 
the modern European school. The 
color distinction is light blue. 
Gallery C has been enlarged by 
the removal of a storage area, and 
here the space is devoted to Amer
ican art. The color in this gallery 
is a tempered yellow.
A very important collection of 
works, dating from the Middle 
Ages to the 18th century, has been 
given by Baroness Cassel van 
Doorn of New York City to the de
partment of fine arts on perma
nent loan. It numbers close to 100 
objects and includes a wealth of 
fine chests, cabinets and armoirs, 
lecterns, tables, chairs and benches 
made in France, Italy, England 
and Holland. Noteworthy among 
the objects in metal are two dated 
bronze mortars, 1477 and 1551, 
and a pair of 14th century torch
eres. Among individual works of 
art are a bronze group by Adri
aen de Vries and a large bronze 
representing a Naiad, which by 
the late Dr. Bode has been as
signed to a German atelier.
Many of these objects have 
been temporarily placed through 
the galleries, and a definite ar
rangement will be made later. A 
2nd century Roman marble sar
cophagus will eventually be shown 
in the sculpture court. In addi
tion to the above, the collection 
includes a canvas by Sir Henry 
Raeburn representing Robert Colt 
of Auldhame and his wife Lady 
Grace daughter of Lord President 
Dundas of Armiston, which is 
now on view in Gallery A.
With the removal of the Dal
zell collection pictures from the 
Music Hall foyer, replacements 
have been made with paintings 
representing the taste of the turn 
of the century, when the Hall 
was constructed.
Thistle Staff
A general meeting of all 
persons interested in working 
on the yearbook will be held 
Thursday, September 30 at 
4:30 in the Carnegie Union. 
Anyone interested in any 
phase of the yearbook is in
vited to attend.
Dr. F. Modigliani 
Awarded Grant 
For Study Abroad
Dr. Franco Modigliani, profes
sor of economics and industrial 
administration, has been awarded 
a United States Educational Ex
change grant for study and teach
ing abroad next year.
The award, made under the pro
visions of the Fulbright Act, is 
for the purpose of Dr. Modiglianis 
lecturing in economics at the Uni
versities of Rome and Palermo, 
in Italy.
Dr. Modigliani was on the fac
ulty of jurisprudence at the Uni
versity of Rome from 1935 to 1939, 
and received his Doctor in Juris
prudence degree there in 1939. He 
also holds a Doctor of Social Sci
ences from the New School for 
Social Research, New York.
Dr. Modigliani will receive a 
leave of absence from his teaching 
duties for the second semester of 
the coming academic year. Dur
ing the six months he will spend 
in Italy, he also plans to do re
search work on new develop
ments in Italian economics. The 
results of his findings will be pub
lished later in academic economic 
journals.
Cheerleaders Plan Pep-Rallies
By Pat Mitchell
Cheerleaders trying to extract a cheer from the fans at Forbes field.
Frequently they cant see a 
thing either, except a soft fall of 
large white snow flakes. Occasion
ally, some of these snowflakes 
have lighted on the field and upon 
investigation have been discov
ered to be strange flying craft. 
Barbara hastens to assure the per
haps alarmed populace that these 
craft are probably more Greek 
than Martian in origin.
Another problem faced by the 
cheerleading team composed of 
Barbara Kerr, Mary Prezioso, 
Jean Turri, Lenore Elwell, Joan
Cerwin, Pat Hoyer, Willy Steitz, 
and Darryl Hunter, is transporta
tion to away games. Sometimes 
they can go with the band, but 
the band doesnt always go.
Rallies Planned 
Despite these difficulties, the 
Tech cheerleaders are among the 
most enthusiastic, often spending 
a speechless Sunday after a par
ticularly rousing game. And the 
team doesnt lack applicants. At 
the tryouts last year, 35 students
tried to make the team although 
only five were chosen. At the 
present, the team is looking for 
a fellow who can do acrobatic 
stunts. Although one of the male >) 
members can turn cartwheels, he 
refuses to perform alone.
The first pep rally will be held 
October 8. The place will be post
ed soon. The team hopes to be 
able to hold the rallies on the 
Cut or Fine Arts lawn rather than 
in the out-of-the-way Tech Bowl.
Its the FILTER that Counts 
and L&M has the Best!
T *s sweePin& the country ... a
JLi JYJL smash success, overnight! No 
cigarette ever went so far so fast, because 
no filter compares with L&Ms exclusive 
miracle tip for quality or effectiveness.
From L&M you get much more flavor, 
much less nicotine ... a light and mild
smoke. And you enjoy all this in king size 
or regular, both at the same low price.
Our statement of quality goes unchal
lenged. L&M is America's highest quality 
and best filter tip cigarette.
Buy L&Msking size or regulartheyre 
just what the doctor ordered.
Listen, my children, and you 
shall hear the sad, sad tale of the 
Tech football cheer. It passed 
away no one knows exactly when, 
with scarcely a murmur.
Perhaps it was when the grid
iron fell to the slide rule in the 
de-emphasis of football at Tech. 
Just why school spirit should 
have departed from Tech with de
emphasis is not known. And yet, 
despite the frenzied efforts of the 
cheerleaders, whose few voices 
are heard all over huge Forbes 
Field, Barbara Kerr, cheerleader, 
mourns, We dont hear a thing 
from- the stands.
Snow Flakes
