Ifranq-Ho Greeks
Tech Prepares For Greek 
Sing And Swing Weekend
~ Techs annual Greek Sing competition will be held Fri
day, February 27, at 8:00 in the Carnegie Music Hall.
Greek Swing will take place the next evening, Satur
day, February 28, beginning at 9:00 in the Syria Mosque.
During the intermission t h e*~----------------------------------------------
awards for sing competition and 
the Panhel and CFP scholarship 
trophies will be presented.
All non-sorority, non-fratern
ity, and faculty members who 
wish to attend Greek Sing must
obtain tickets through Jack Roose 
at the Beta Theta Pi house by 
sending a self-addressed envelope.
Selections 
The selections to be presented 
at Greek Sing this year are: Al
pha Epsilon Phi. .Soldier, Sol
dier, Prayer from Hansel and 
Gretel. Chi Omega  I Wonder 
When I Shall Be Married, The 
Lamb. Delta Delta Delta  
Shepherds, Would Ye Hope to 
Please Us, Little Boy Blue. 
Delta Gamma  Ora Pro No
bis, The Galway Piper. Kappa 
Alpha Theta  Betty Botter, 
[continued on page 8]
t&eCARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 52NUMBER 14
Dickens To Be Subject 
Of Tuesday Assembly
Dickens created literally hundreds of memorable char
acters, but none is as interesting as the man who depicted 
them."
Dr. Austin Wright, head of the English department, will 
expand this thesis in his assembly lecture next Tuesday, Feb. 
24, at 11:30 a.m. in the Fine Arts Theatre.
A close examination of the man 
Dickens, whose early success 
gained him fame and popularity, 
reveals a restless and unsatisfied 
human being. His driving ambi
tion for achievement and acknow
ledgement was enforced by the 
hardships and disappointments 
he suffered as a youth.
Although Dr. Wright will men
tion some of Dickens books in 
his talk, he does not intend to 
make a critical evaluation of the 
authors works or characteriza
tions. His main concern will be 
for Dickens  the most fascin
ating of all the Dickens char- Or. Austin Wright
acters. Tuesday Assembly Speaker
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1959
Math Council To Hold 
$ Conference At Tech
On Saturday, February 21, 1959, the Mathematics Coun
cil of Western Pennsylvania will hold a mathematics confer
ence for teachers of math from kindergarten to college in 
room 100 Porter Hall.
Dr. John H. Neelley a member^----------------------------------------------------
of the mathematics board and a
1
professor of mathematics here at 
Tech will speak to senior high 
teachers on the subject of Corrdination Between High School 
nd College Mathematics.
More Continuity
He will answer and offer solu
tions to the problems of getting 
colleges to work more effectively 
with high schools and ways to get 
continuity in high school math 
courses and necessary mathemat
ical competence for college work.
Dr. Neelley has been a prom
inent speaker at mathematics conierences in district schools and 
has also written two analytic 
books and one calculus book now 
being used in colleges.
Panhel Council 
Holds Rush Clinic 
For Tech Women
Panhellenic held a clinic for 
wushees last Friday in Morewood 
Gardens Recreation Room in an 
attempt to clear up some of the 
problems that face rushees.
Each sorority had a representa
tive on the Panhellenic Commit
tee. The representatives were 
Carol Jean Hersch, Alpha Epsilon 
Phi; Marge Warner, Chi Omega; 
Fran Bebic, Delta Delta Delta; 
Gretchen Beinlich, Delta Gamma; 
JSinna Murphy, Kappa Alpha 
^heta; Gloria Cofsky. Kappa Kap
pa Gamma, and Janice Clarchick, 
Sigma Kappa.
It is hoped that this clinic will 
discourage rushees from getting 
together and talking over aspects 
of rushing which they know little 
about, Ginny Murphy, rush chair
man, pointed out.
Mrs. Virginia Milligan, new 
Dean of Women, and Mrs. Louise 
Creen, resident head of More^ood Gardens were present at 
this first rush clinic.
The clinic discussed the im
portance of final parties, of in
dividual choice, and of submit
ting three choices at the end of 
rush. It also discussed preferen
tial bidding, financial points, sil
ence period and its importance, 
as well as an individuals respon
sibilities to her sorority.
4
Write Contest 
Offers Prizes
By Leila Moore
Use part of your Spring vaca
tion to polish that article for the 
WRITE contest, PiDE advises.
WRITE, you will agree, lacks 
nothing as far as motivation for 
entering is concerned. Its $25 
prize, though not a fortune, is a 
substantial extra advantage.
Remember, the subject matter 
of WRITE is unlimited. You could 
write an editorial on school policy 
for the Tartan, for example, or 
you could use your talents in 
subtle humor for an entry for 
the Scot.
The deadline for entries is 
April first, the day after Spring 
vacation. Articles can be tu:\.ed 
in to Melissa Ivkovich, 7B, Morewood Gardens. A copy of the 
rules for WRITE can be found 
in last weeks Tartan or in mim
eographed form in the dean of 
students office.
Pershing Rifles 
To Croivn Queen 
At Annual Dance
Thistle Hall is the scene of the 
second annual Pershing Rifles 
dance which will be held this 
Saturday, February 21. Music will 
be furnished by the high fidelity 
tape system of Cal Marlett from 
eight p.m. to twelve.
During the intermission the 
queen and honorary commander 
of Pershing Rifles, Company A-5 
will be presented. The queen for 
1959 will be crowned by the pres
ent queen, Miss Denise Getsie. The 
three candidates for this honor 
are Miss Lana Kubasak, Miss 
Beverly Patton, and Miss Margie 
Snodgrass.
New Queen
As her first official act, the new 
queen will present the newly in
itiated actives with their fourrageres, the blue and white shoul
der cords which signify member
ship in the organization. Cadet 
Major James C. Bane, Jr., Com
pany Commander, will then pre
sent awards to several outstand
ing members of Company A-5.
All students are invited to at
tend this event for the dance is 
open to the student body and not 
restricted to ROTC cadets. Tick
ets are $1.00 per couple and can 
be obtained in Skibo or from any 
member of Pershing Rifles.
Monday, February 23 Marks 
Beginning Of Campus Chest
Monday, February 23 will be the first day of Campus 
Chest solicitations. This year students will again be con
tacted according to their place of residence.
Students living on campus will be contacted either in 
their dorm or fraternity housed 
Commuters will be contacted according to their department. 
There will be a solicitor for every 
ten students.
Last year Campus Chest col
lected a little over $2,000 with the 
average contribution $1.67. The 
majority of students accepted the 
suggested allocations made by the 
Campus Chest committee.
'This years suggested alloca
tions are:
65% Student Services 
35% World University Service
(WUS)  the aim of this organi
zation is to provide aid to students 
from students. The WUS program 
includes building schools, hos
pitals and recreation halls and 
buying books and medical sup
plies.
20% National Scholarship Serv
ice and Fund for Negro Students 
(NSSFNS) provides counsel on 
referral services, financial aid and 
encouragement to promising 
[continued on page 8]
/Veil? Dean Of Women Receives 
Warm Welcome From Techites
By Leila Moore
Mrs. Virginia Milligan, the new 
Dean of Women, has found her 
introduction to Carnegie Tech in
teresting and especially pleasant.
She said that the warm welcome 
extended by students as well as 
faculty members was most grat
ifying. I immediately felt that I 
was an integral part of Tech, 
observed the new Dean in a re
cent interview.
When asked about her previous 
duties at Pitt, Mrs. Milligan re
plied, How long is a rubber 
band? I served as advisor to stu
dent government and to the activ
ities committee, and taught two 
freshman seminars. There has al
ways been a large number of 
transfer students entering Pitt, 
and I interviewed and taught 
them in such a way that their
transferred courses and new 
courses would correlate.
Mrs. Milligan 
Mrs. Milligan said that one 
[continued on page 7]
Dean Virginia Milligan
Teehs New Dean of Women
Military Ball 1959 
To Have New Look
The annual Military Ball sponsored by Scabbard and 
Blade will have a new look this year.
Instead of being held within the hollow confines of the 
gym as usual, the Military Ball 1959 will be held in the much 
warmer atmosphere of the ballroom of theWebster Hall Hotel 
in Oakland. The music will be provided by Bill LeRoys or
chestra, a well-known organiza-*----------------------------------------------------
tion throughout the district.
Open to All
Although open to the entire
student body (whose presence will 
be appreciated), the ball will be 
formal in that all military cadets 
attending must be in uniform. 
However, the military department 
has consented that any cadet who 
has purchased a ticket prior to the 
drill period of March 19 will not 
be required to wear a uniform on 
that day. All cadets who have not 
purchased a ticket by March 19 
must be in uniform for that drill 
period.
Queen
The elected queen, who will al
so serve as the honorary colonel 
and regimental commander, will
Guidance Bureau 
Offering College 
Reading Course
The Bureau of Measurement 
and Guidance is offering a course 
in college reading skills, which 
will meet on Wednesday at 8:00 
p.m., with the first class begin
ning on February 18.
The instructor of this non
credit course is Mr. Arthur Blum 
of the Speech Clinic at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh.
..Any student who would like to 
enroll for this course should see 
Mrs. Waugh in Room 342-E, Ad
ministration Hall for complete de
tails.
Anyone who is unable to at
tend these classes, may make pri
vate appointments with Mr. Blum wear a new crown during her | on Thursday mornings and Friday 
night of reign. The crown is set j afternoons, 
off by five stars which are emblematic of Scabbard and Blade.
The queen will have four attend
ants in her court who will have a j 
rank of either honorary lieutenant 
colonel or honorary major. All 
members of the court will be se
lected by members of the regi
ment and the queen will be elect[continttcd on page 8]
Great Scot
Interested in writing? The 
Great Scot is now' looking for 
new writers who wish to con
tribute to the magazine. For 
information contact Jeremy 
Lewis at 300 Welsh Hall or 
via campus mail.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, February 18, 1959
International Sets 
Record Sales And 
Attendance Here
When the forty-first Pittsburgh 
International closed on February 
8th, every conceivable sales rec
ord of previous years had been 
broken, according to Gordon 
Bailey Washburn, director of fine 
arts at Carnegie Institute.
One hundred and sixty-five 
paintings and sculptures were sold 
for more than $196,000. This figure 
represents thirty-six per cent oi 
the total saleable works in the 
exhibit.
Previous Highs
In 1955, eighty-three paintings 
were sold for a previous all-time 
high, and in 1923 the amount of 
$78,687 was achieved. Both of 
these records were surpassed 
twenty-four hours after the In
ternational opened on December
4, 1958.
Eighty-five works (67 paintings 
and 18 sculptures) were sold to 
residents in the Pittsburgh area, 
while forty-seven (36 paintings 
and 11 sculptures) were purchased 
by museums, collectors, and gal
leries throughout the United 
States and Canada. Carnegie In
stitute was presented with twen
ty-four paintings and nine sculp
tures as gifts.
The International was sponsor
ed by the Pittsburgh Bicentennial 
Association. In addition to the 
contemporary art exhibit which 
contained one hundred and twen
ty-seven sculptures and three 
hundred and sixty-seven paintins, an additional ninety-five 
works were shown in the retro
spective exhibition of paintings 
from previous internationals.
Attendance was extremely high, 
with an unusually large number 
of visitors coming from all over 
the United States, Europe, and 
Japan. The International cata
logue was entirely sold out. Never 
has so much attention been focus
ed upon a Pittsburgh Interna
tional.
Explorers Club
The Explorers Club invites any
one interested in learning climb
ing techniques to come on the 
High Rocks trip Sunday, Febru
ary 22. Those going on the trip 
will meet in Skibo at 8:30 a.m. 
Sunday.
........................ >
LITTLE MAN ON.CAMPUS
iEntry Blank
 Coed of the Week Contesti
i Name ...........................................................................i
\ Address .......................................................................i
Phone .........................................................................
i
~ Submitted by.............................................................i
Architects To
Give Lecture
During second semester, Dr. 
William Metcalf Jr., Mr. Joseph 
M. Neufield, Mr. Robert M. Engman, and Mr. Earl N. 
four distinguished men in the 
field of architecture, will present 
a lecture series on their field to 
the students of architecture at 
Tech.
Mr. William Metcalf Jr., will 
appear as a visiting critic for 
fifth year students, making five 
short appearances during the se
mester. Mr. Metcalf is a gradu
ate of Yale, receiving his Bach
elor of Architecture degree in 
1951 and his Masters degree in 
1952.
From 1953 to 1956, Mr. Metcalf 
was a medical construction liaison 
officer in the Surgeon Generals 
office in the Air Force. His hos
pital design at Whiteside received 
the progressive architecture de
sign award of 1954. Mr. Metcalf 
has just returned from 'London 
where he was the first American 
scholar under the Neufeld Foun
dation.
Mr. Joseph M. Neufeld is visit
ing critic in fourth year design. 
He received his masters degree 
from the school of architecture at 
the Academy in Vienna and at the 
school of architecture, University 
of Rome. He was professor of 
architectural design at the Acad
emy of Fine Arts, Rome, and as
sistant to Erich Mendelson in Ber
lin, 1926-29.
Mr. Neufeld originated and.in
troduced the hospital problem 
known as the Hopper Fellowship 
at Yale University and is inter
nationally known for his work in 
hospital and health planning.
Newman Club
Beginning next week the regu
lar weekly club meetings will be 
held on Thursdays instead of 
Tuesdays. These Thursday meet
ings will be held in PH 100 at 
12:30.
On Friday, all Tech Catholics 
are invited to make the Stations 
of the Cross at St. Pauls Cathe
dral at 7:45 p.m. Following Sta
tions, Brother Dominic Reardon 
from Duquesne will be the guest 
speaker at the Cardinal Newman 
Hall.
Newman Week
February 22-28 is Cardinal 
Newman Week. There will be a 
regional sponsored CommunionBreakfast on Sunday, February 22. 
Mass will be at St. Pauls at 10:00 
a.m. Breakfast will follow at the 
Cardinal Newman Hall.
On February 27, there will be 
initiations for all new club mem
bers and those who have not had 
the opportunity to be initiated 
previously. This will be held at 
the Cardinal Newman Hall fol
lowing the 7:45 Stations of the 
Cross in St. Pauls Cathedral.
Home Economics Society
On Wednesday, February 25, at 
3:30 in the afternoon, Omicron 
Nu, the Home Economics National 
Honor Society, will present a 
symposium on opportunities for 
study in Home Economics.
Collegiate members will pro
vide pertinent information con
cerning graduate study in the 
areas of clothing and textiles, 
food and nutrition, home econom
ics education, child development, 
and family relations.
All home economics students 
rnd faculty, and others who may 
oe interested, are invited to atTech Dames Club
This months social event for 
the Carnegie Tech Dames Club 
will be a Pot Luck Dinner, Satur
day, February 21, at 7 p.m. in 
Carnegie Union. Fifty students 
and their wives are expected at 
the dinner. Each member will add 
her food specialty to the evenings 
menu.
Social chairman, Mrs. Mark 
Ryan, is in charge of this annual 
husband and wife dinner. Mrs. 
William Ely and Mrs. Peter Shaw 
are planning the evenings enter
tainment.
Favorite Recipes
Club members will add their 
favorite recipes to the Dames 
Club Cook Book. This will fea
ture budget stretchers, company 
fare, foreign foodsall tried and 
tested favorites.
Regular meetings of the Tech 
Dames Club are held the second 
Tuesday of each month at 8 p.m. 
in Carnegie Union. All wives-* of 
Tech students are welcome to at
tend. Interest groups such as 
bridge, book reviews, music and 
calisthenics are an integral part 
of the clubs activities.
International Clubs
The International Club is spon
soring a wine and cheese party on 
February 21, at 8:30 p.m. in Mudge 
Hall. This social event has been 
planned for the purpose of intro
ducing American students to the 
foreign students on campus, and 
non-members are welcome.
tend the symposium, which will 
be held in Mary Breed Memorial 
Hall, Room 103, aMrgaret Morri
son.
-------Ye&, D, I WIH X HAD A0L TO 6ErT A COLLE60
EDUCATION. IT 6>lV6 A MANI THAT CZKTAIN SOMETHIN/S 
THAT 6Te HIM A?0^ AND APART FROM THE AVrA6E 
%
Coed Of 5L Week
Austin
Mary Lou Kovacs
Sophomore Home Ec Major
As low as $774 from New York ... 40 days
Now Pan Am is offering a fabulous series of special student 
tours that feature the new Boeing 707 Jet Clippers* 
worlds fastest airlinersbetween New York and Europe. 
No extra fare for the extra speed and comfort.
Of all the areas of the world, Europe is most suited to 
the type of unusual, adventurous travel you want. There 
are literally dozens of tours for you to choose from, many 
offering academic credits. And whats more, theres 
plenty of free time left for you to roam about on your own.
From Midwest and West Coast Cities, other direct 
Pan Am services are available on radar-equipped, Douglasbuilt Super-7 Clippers.
Call your Travel Agent, Pan American, or send in the 
coupon below for full information. Trade-Marie. Reg. U. S. Pat. OS.
Send to:
George Gardner, Educational Director 
Pan American, Box 1908, N. Y. 17, N. Y.
Please send free Pan Am Holiday #405 book
let on Special Student Tours to Europe.
Name. 
Street. 
City_
WORLDS MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE-State.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 18, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPas *
ITS Hice
Te c~ ryPiCAo-'
TVPiC/vury IS G-RAHfr >IT'S HARP TOBE T*U > ANP
Thsanu l
gjM TytfcAt-i-s s O refNOVJ
THAT A PRETTV 
GrksSigG 
io 5CCc,
How tSteONE OrETMoi?e ,Tmkpanut/**>sous y,
i cant > 
LOVE VOTiu you'RE 
Ty Pical/ )
WoV-'i ' 
'CONFORM?
vision that he should contact 
Ralph by phone or through the 
mail at the Beta Theta Pi house.
Chairman Pete Sargent an
nounced that his Campus Chest 
committee is now working in full 
swing to make the drive a success. 
The campaign will begin on Feb
ruary 23, The pamphlets are be
ing printed up and will be given 
to the solicitors at a meeting on 
Monday, February 16. Publicity 
for the campaign will be carried 
on through articles and cartoons 
in the Tartan, billboards around 
campus, and posters.
The Carnegie Union committee 
has arranged for the plans for 
the new Student Union to be 
available in Dr. Stricks office on 
ions or ideas concerning this reFebruary 12 and 13. The Leader
ship Conference Committee is 
working on the spring leadership 
conference now.
The motion passed at this meet[continued on page 5]
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys f" and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek)
THE GIRL I LEFT BEHIND ME
It happens every day. A young man goes off to college leaving; 
his home-town sweetheart with vows of eternal love, and then 
he finds that he has outgrown her. What, in such cases, is the 
honorable thing to do?
Well sir, you can do what Rock Sigafoos did.
When Rock left Cut and Shoot, Pa., he said to his sweetheart, 
a simple country lass named Tess dUrbervilles, My dear, 
though I am far away in college, I will love you always. I will 
never look at another girl. If I do, may my eyeballs parch and 
wither, may my viscera writhe like adders, may the moths get 
my new tweed jacket!"
Then he clutched Tess to his bosom and planted a final kiss 
upon her fragrant young skull and went away, meaning with 
all his heart to be faithful. ^
BS CANDIDATES 
Choose employment 
or graduate studyBut on the very first day of college he met a coed named Fata 
Morgana, a girl of such sophistication, such poise, such avoir 
faire as Rock had never beheld. She spoke knowingly of Franz 
Kafka, she hummed Mozart, she smoked Marlboros, the ciga
rette with better makins. Now, Rock didnt know Frans 
Kafka from Pinocchio, or Mozart from James K. Polk, but 
Mariboros he knew full wrell. He knew that anyone who smoked 
Marlboros was modern and advanced and as studded with 
brains as a ham with cloves. Good sense tells you that you cant 
beat Marlboros new improved filter, and you never could beat 
Marlboros fine flavor. This Rock knew.
So all day he followed Fata around campus and listened to
CANDIDATES
,^4nqsianment
... As an RCA Engineer
Receive your MS In Electrical Engineering, 
Mechanical Engineering or Physics at RCA s 
expense, through the RCA Graduate Study 
Program. At the same time, youre beginning 
your RCA career as an engineer on a fully 
professional level, getting a head start in the 
field you prefer. RCA pays the full cost of 
your tuition, fees and approved texts while 
jrou take graduate study part time at the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania or Rutgers University.
Or, you may prefer a different path ahead . . 
RCA Design and Development Specialized 
Training. Here is another of RCAs pro* 
grams for careers, in which you begin by 
working full-time on planned technical assignRight now, though, see your placement officer. Get 
squared away on a specific time for your interview. 
And get your copies of the brochures that also help 
to fill you in on the RCA picture. If youre tied up 
when RCAs representative is here, send a resume to t
ments. Experienced engineers and interested 
management guide your progress. You may 
receive assignments in design and development 
of radar, airborne electronics, computers, 
missile electronics, television, radio ana other 
equipment fields, as well as in Electron Tubes, 
Semiconductors and Components. MS, PhD 
Candidates are eligible for direct assignments 
in the above mentioned field.
Theres a lot more thats extremely interesting 
about an RCA engineering career. You should 
have these facts to make a wise decision about 
your future. Get them in person very soon 
when an RCA engineering management repre
sentative arrives on campus
February 19
Mr. Robert Haklisch, Manager 
College Relations, Dept. CR-11 
Radio Corporation of America \ 
Camden 2, New Jersey
Tomorrow is here today
at RCA
fi] RADIO CORPORATION of AMERICA
her talk about Franz Kafka, and then in the evening he went 
back to the dormitory and found this letter from his home-towa 
sweetheart Tess:
Dear Rock,
V8 kids had a keen time yesterday. We went down to th 
pond and caught sortie frogs. I caughi the most of anybody. 
Then we hitched rides on trucks and did lots of nutty stuff 
like that. Well, I must dose now became I got to whitewash 
the fence.Your friend,
Test
P.S.... 7 can do my Hula Hoop S,000 times.
Well sir, Rock thought about Tess and then he thought about 
Fata and then a great sadness fell upon him. Suddenly he knew 
he had outgrown young, innocent Tess; his heart nowr belonged 
to smart, sophisticated Fata.
Rock, being above all things honorable, returned forthwith 
to his home town and walked up to Tess and looked her in the 
eye and said manfully, I do not love you any more. I love 
a girl named Fata Morgana. You can hit me in the stomach with 
all your might if you like.
Thats okay, hey," said Tess amiably. I don't love you 
neither. I found a new boy.
What is his name? asked Rock.
Franz Kafka, said Tess.
A splendid fellow, said Rock and shook Tesss hand and 
they have remained good friends to this day. In fact, Rock and 
Fata often double-date with Franz and Tess and have heaps 
of fun. Franz can do the Hula Hoop 6,000 times.
Alls well that ends wellincluding Philip Morris. Philip 
Morris ends well and begins well and is made of superb 
natural tobaccos by the name people who make Marlboros*

---------------------------------------------------

Page iCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, February 18, 1959
tuia penA eOsslow
The Indispensable Man
Sometime, when youre feeling important, 
Sometime, when your egos in bloom,
Sometime, when you take it for granted, 
Youre the best qualified in the room, 
Sometimes when you feel that your going, 
Would leave an unfillable hole,
Just follow this simple instruction,
And see how it humbles your soul,
Take a bucket and fill it with water,
Put your hand in it, up to the wrist,
Pull it out, and the hole thats remaining,
Is a measure of how youll be missed,
You may splash all you please when you enter, 
You can stir up the water galore,
But stop, and youll find in a minute,
That it looks quite the same as before,
The moral in this quaint example,
Is do just the best you can,
Be proud of yourself, but remember,
Theres no indispensable man.
Anonymous
San Francisco vs. Pittsburgh
Editor, The Tartan:
I believe that one should never be criticized for loyalty 
to his home city and its environs. But likewise, one should 
not permit this loyalty to make him oblivious of the finer 
qualities of other cities.
Being quite familiar with San4---------------------:----------------------------
Francisco and the cities with to make an analogy between San
which Mr. Bolger (in the Febru
ary 11, 1959 issue of Tartan com
pares it, I know that one of the 
universally recognized attributes 
of San Francisco is the cosmopol
itan maturity of so many of its 
inhabitants.
Briefly, Mr. Bolgers condemn
ation of Pittsburgh is unwarrant
ed, unjustified, and superficial, 
and would cause embarrassment 
smong San Franciscans who know 
ihe pulse not only of their own 
city, but also, that of Pittsburgh. 
If it were not for the ambition, 
foresight, and innovation of in
dividuals who characterize Pitts
burgh, the economy of America 
would not exist to support such 
financial centers as San Fran
cisco. ^
Poor Analogy
Can Mr. Bolger honestly say 
that after only five months here 
he knows Pittsburgh-well enough 
to measure its physical assets and 
the innate culture of its people? 
In reality, Mr. Bolger has failed
Francisco and Pittsburgh because 
he has not merely sought to find 
only the faults of Pittsburgh, but 
has based a substantial portion of 
his praise for San Francisco upon 
such trivialities as excitement, 
romance, Chinatown, and the 
a lack of hard water.
One does not have to .venture 
to Mt. Lebanon or to the Golden 
Triangle to discover much of the 
cultural diversification of Pitts
burgh. The Tech campus is sur
rounded, within walking distance, 
by an academic and cultural at
mosphere within-which ones time 
can be well occupied by the stage, 
symphonies, concerts, lectures, 
libraries, sporting events, and the 
worlds foremost medical technol
ogy center.
I would suggest to Mr. Bolger 
that in addition to physical beauty, 
he should base any further com
parison between San Francisco 
and Pittsburgh upon the true cul
tural and industrial opportunities 
which lie therein, not merely upProposed Carnival 
Site Draws Varied 
Student Opinions
In last weeks Tartan, it was 
stated that spring carnival com
mittee of Student Congress is con
sidering setting up the midway 
in the parking lot behind Morewood Gardens, due to the inacces
sibility of other locations on cam
pus.
The Tartans inquiring reporter 
found that there are mixed feel
ings on campus about holding 
carnival in the back yard, so to 
speak, of the womens dorm.
Answers 
The following are some of the 
replies received in answer to the 
question: What do you think of 
Techs Spring Carnival being set 
up behind More wood?
Barbara Sallinger  Jr., foods 
and nutrition: I think that its a 
good location considering that 
there are not very many avail
able sites to hold this years car
nival. The carnival will probably 
be able to be seen from Forbes 
Avenue; thereby, drawing patrons. 
Moreover, it is quite convenient 
to Morewood Gardens, and thats 
an attraction to draw people in 
itself.
Interesting Results 
John Kunesh, Sr., Chem. Engin
eering: I think that erecting and 
running the carnival midway im
mediately adjacent to Morewood 
Gardens could lead to some inter
esting results.
Betty Misklow, Sr., Social Stud
ies. I think the location sug
gested would be rather poor due 
to the fact that it is closed in and 
rather small. It seems a carnival 
atmosphere and spirit would not 
fit in there at all, mainly because 
it is too close lo the street and 
to the womens, dorm.
Atmosphere 
Elaine Spencer, Sr., Psych. Ma
jor: Although it seems that this 
is the only available location for 
Spring Carnival this year, I dont 
think the real carnival atmo
sphere can be created in the 
Morewood Gardens parking lot 
which is so isolated from the 
campus itself.
Chuck Buerger, Jr., Prt. Mgt.: 
Wouldnt mind , losing money on 
booths or lack of carnival glamor 
if Morewood kept their blinds up.
on banks and bistros. If his ap
praisal is accurate, I am certain 
that he will discover that these 
two All-American cities comple
ment each other.
Sincerely yours, 
Blasdel A. Reardon 
GS.I.A. 60 
P.S. I am not a citizen of 
Pittsburgh.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Oral Examinations
In most European school the oral examination is one of 
the most widely used and effective methods of testing a stu
dents knowledge; yet at Tech and in most American schools 
the oral examination is as rare as honor in the honor system. 
There are many advantages to such a system especially in 
an engineering college.
HWritten exams though much more economical do not 
truly reflect a students understanding of a technical subject. 
The partial-credit system in grading problem examinations is 
part of the reason. An instructor can certainly determine 
who is the student with a complete knowledge for he is 
most likely to discover a solution to the problem. However, 
the student who is less than brilliant and cannot find a so
lution must be judged upon his method of procedure.
Here is where the written examination becomes ina$ 
curate. How can an instructor accurately determine whether 
a person has a correct though disorganized method of pro
cedure or wether he has just written down every formula 
he knows in an attempt to fool the grader? In some cases this 
is easy but in many it is almost impossible. Open book tests 
make such problems even more complex.
In an oral exam, on the other hand, the student is forced 
to answer questions which can clear up most of the difficul
ties. In this method the instructor can readily sense if % 
student is hedging and thus can more accurately assess his 
ability.
This method of testing has many more advantages. A 
great many students do poorly on an exam because the word
ing of the problem is unclear. They are then graded down, 
not because of their lack of knowledge, but rather because 
of the ambiguity of the written statement. An oral examina
tion does not have this difficulty. The instructor can explau; 
the problem until he knows that the student understands 
what is desired. He is also in a better position to discover the 
existing deficiencies in his students grasp of the subject.
Cheating on written examinations which is more serious | 
than the most perceptive professors imagine, would be elim
inated; for a student cannot very well consult his shirt cuffs 
when his instructors attention is focused upon him.
I submit that it is the fault of our present testing meth
ods that allow a student to reach the senior level before reaW 
izing that he has no ability in the field of engineering. If our 
school had a more realistic method of determining a students 
abilities and talents, it could better and sooner advise him as 
to his chances for graduation.
I suggest that Carnegie Tech as a leader in American 
education look further into its present and inadequate meth
ods of engineering examination.
Blenheim
:*--------------1------------------------------
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. Office phone, MU 2-4557; Co-Editors EM 1-7157 and MU 2-9053.: 
Advertising Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the schc*) 
year except holidays and examination periods by the students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Ce-Editor ............... .............. ................................ ..................................  Car) S*bj
Co-Editor ............... .................................................................. ................................ Richard Wiley
Associate Editor .-............................................................................................................ David Doll
Business Manager ....................................................................................................... Michael Bass
News Editor .............................................................................................. Jan Notopoolo
Sports Editor ................................................................................................................. George Paris
Copy Editor ................................................................................................................. Jerry Sullivan
Feature EditorRex Baker, Photography EditorAlan Gickler, 
Assistant Business ManagerLee Adlesberg, Advertising Manager 
Mike Balsam; Assistant Advertising ManagerMiles Hollander; Sec
retaryRena Siegal; Circulation ManagerGary Brandenburger; AM) 
sistant Sports EditorEd Blum; TransportationGene Rietzke.
News Staff  Mike Brunt, Dori Cline, Linda Friedlob, Sally 
Ganong, Paul Hess, Phil James, Beth Liden, Arlene Logioco, Bill 
Mohney, Betsy Moss, Bob Nowak, Terrie Rudy, Carolyn Saxton, Ira 
Shapiro, Georgia White, Lois Wolfe.
Sports StaffDick Hamilton, Mike Beaman, Chuck Vodrarka.Copy StaffFrank Baloh, Spence Anderson, Mary Anne Melton, 
Janis Geisler, Roger Fager, Jim Whalen.Circulation StaffJim Phillips, Larry Dominik.
Second class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
?5

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 18. 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
ik, ROTCGuidon
Drilling Develops 
I Teamwork, Spirit 
| And Organization
I From observers and new cadets 
I alike the question Why Drill? 
I js often voiced. At first glance, 
| drill does seem a gaudy waste of 
! time and energy. Why cant the 
j time be spent in gaining knowlI ex^e of the most important as
pects of the military art?
The answer to that question 
can be given by examining the 
purposes and results of drill, 
probably the most valuable prod
uct of drill is teamwork.
Teamwork
Teamworkthe most vital ele- j ment in any group or organization. 
I jWsoldier must learn teamwork 
I* the value of unified and co
ll operative action so thoroughly 
I that they guide his later actions 
I and orders by instinct.
The first opportunity the Army 
[has to teach the spirit of working 
together is on the drillfield. Here 
[the soldier learns that there can 
I be no movement of men and 
j equipment without the unified efI fort of himself and his comrades. 
I A*>, in time, self-confidence of 
I the individual and confidence in 
[his unit is developed.
Drill
Drill, by its very nature, also 
[ develops organization and disci
pline, two highly valued qualities 
f any military unit.
i Historically, drill has been a 
| tradition in the Army dating back 
to the militia of the colonies and 
I handing the Minutemen of Lex[ii^on. Even George Washingtons 
ragged and half starved army at 
j Valley Forge regularly drilled in j order that discipline might be ob
tained and preserved.
'Enter
The
WRITE
Contest 
Now
mEdited by CHUCK NELSONu
Scabbard And 
Blade Election
At a recent meeting the mem
bers of Scabbard and Blade elect
ed John Lemmer to the office of 
1st Lieutenant. John was recent
ly initiated and takes the place 
of Dan Rhoads who resigned be
cause of academic difficulties. 
Lemmer will be the pledge mar
shall of the spring pledge class.
You Can Makx 
Or Brxak It
Thxrx is nothing Wrong with 
my typxwritxr xxcept for onx 
littlx kxy. Thx othxr forty six 
work pxrfxctly. Just onx inactivx kxy doxs makx a diffxrxnex.
For xxamplx, you may say to 
yoursxlfI am just onx out of 
onx hundrxd sxvxnty mxmbxrs 
of thx of thx 460th transportation 
company (amphibious truck). 
What I do or dont do can* makx 
or brxak thx company. But you 
arx wrong. Any company, to bx 
xfficixnt and xffixtivx, nxxds thx 
activx coopxration of xvxry 
mxmbxr. Thx nxxt timx you 
think your activx intxrxst in this 
unit is not nxxdxdrxmxmbxr 
this noticx and say to yoursxlf, 
I am a mxmbxr of thx most 
important and bxst company in 
thx Unitxd Statxs Army and my 
activx intxrxst and xfficixnt work 
is nxxdxd vxry much for thx 
ovxrall accomplishmxnt of thx 
unit mission.
It will pay dividxnds in thx 
long run.
Congress
[continued from page 3J 
ing was Be it moved that Stu
dent Congress immediately send 
a recommendation to the Admini
stration that the drive through 
the Donner Hall Parking Lot be 
repaired. It was submitted by 
Lee Ligo.
Bob Cleveland announced that, 
if there is anyone on Congress 
interested in joining a committee 
he should contact Bob. He also 
announced that at the next Com
mittee Heads Meeting this sem
esters Congress work will be 
planned. The heads will also eval
uate what has been done this past 
semester in Congress.
:


SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS 
IN ENGINEERING, 
PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS
The Douglas Aircraft Company
INVITES YOU TO 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
February 25 and 26
Find out about the interesting positions, assistance in 
furthering your education and outstanding promotion 
opportunities with the world's leading manufacturer 
of aircraft and missiles. Get facts on living conditions, 
research facilities and opportunities to advance pro
fessionally at Douglas facilities located in California, 
Florida, Oklahoma, North Carolina and New Mexico.
Reserve your career decision until you have talked 
with the Douglas representative. It may be the most 
important interview of your life.
See Your Director. Bureou of Placement 
For Your Interview Appointment
Humor
All that excavation work 
around the cut and the drill 
field isnt just for construction. 
Rumor has it that theyre trying 
to find the B Company guide who 
was trampled into the mud when 
Phil Wicklander marched C Com
pany over him.* * *
Is it true that Fred Fraikor is 
planning to move Second Battalion 
headquarters into the fifth floor 
of D tower?* * *
If the color guard parade this 
spring as they did last fall, theyre 
in for a lot of ribbing. In addi
tion to the fact that they cant 
tell time, the color guard com
mander, Andy Blaskovich, claims 
that hes the only one that is al
ways in step.* * *
Word has it that every member 
of the First Battalion is going to 
dye his hair red for the coming
drill season. I wonder why?* * *
Pity the poor freshman! It 
seems that a member of the first 
year class was casually strolling 
down the cut with a female 
companion. Preoccupied as he 
was, he didnt discover until too 
late that the regimental command
er was walking toward him. Much 
to his chagrin, the books in his 
right hand prevented him from 
saluting and in a rather resigned
voice said, Oh, s-------------!* * *
Keeping fatigues clean at sum
mer camp was quite a problem 
since facilities did not always 
permit their washing. One inspir
ed cadet (not from Tech), after 
coming off bivouac, was observed 
in the privy industrially scrub
bing his fatigues with the jonny 
brush. Maybe he had just been 
out in the sun too long.* * *
Imagine if you can:
Phil Wicklander going to ROTC 
class.
Dave Kirr going Gung-ho. 
Getting out f ROTC classes 
early.
CITY (Downtown)
Will share my partitioned, 
light, front office with another 
businessman; reasonable. Desk 
available.
Hlland 1-6186 HAzel 1-3754
Films, Dance 
Head Calendar
17 FebruaryThe students, fac 
ulty, and the ROTC regiment in 
particular are invited to see two 
movies concerning the Army ia 
the space age at 1630 hours in 
Porter Hall.
The first picture is a color pro
duction titled Army Explorer in 
Space and the second is a black 
and white film, Flying Soldiers.* 
The movies will last about one 
hour. Everyone should make a 
point to see these timely films.
19 February  The Pershing 
Rifles drill team will put on an 
exhibition of precision drill at 
Central Catholic High School. The 
exhibition will be held in the 
gym during half time at the bas
ketball game.
21 February  The Pershing 
Rifles Company are sponsoring 
their annual record dance. For 
details see PR dance article.
The CIT Rifle Team fires 
against West Virginia University 
at 1630 hours at the range.
24 FebruaryThere will be a 
general meeting of the Society of 
American Military Engineers at 
1230 hours in the activities room. 
Members are urged to attend as 
field trips are to be discussed.
Ever meet a pessimist?
He sees the world through dark glasses. He just knows that he'll 
wind up in a job he doesnt like, that hell be underpaid, that 
he'll get lost in the crowd. But realistic men know these things 
depend largely on their own decision in choosing a career.
Realistic men look for companies that provide sound train
ing, advancement opportunities, challenging work, stimulating 
associates and good pay. These are the fundamentals that insure 
success and progress in a career.
The Bell Telephone Companies offer these fundamentals to 
hard-working, ambitious realists majoring in the arts, the sciences, 
business or engineering. Get the whole story regarding telephone 
career3. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. 
Ask him about training, advancement opportunities, salary, job 
security. We think you'll like what you learn.
You can also get information about telephone careers by read
ing the Bell Telephone booklet on file in yo*ir Placement Office.
BELL. TELEPHONE COMPANIES

---------------------------------------------------

raffe iCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday. February 18, 1959
1. If you were about to buy an automobile, 
would you (A) study the road-test 
reports in the magazines, or (B) select 
the car that looks best to you?
2. When confronted with a menu with lots of foreign terms, do you (A) ask what is in each dish, or (B) accept the 
waiters recommendation?
?
?
??
CD
?
?
9. In choosing a filter cigarette, I |(A) are you easily swayed by Aj_| Bbold claims, or (B) do you think for yourself and stick by your decision?
If you're the kind of person who thinks for 
yourself . . . you use judgment in your 
choice of cigarettes, as in everything else. 
Men and women who think for themselves 
usually smoke VICEROY. Their reason? 
Best in the world. They know that only 
VICEROY has a thinking man's filter and 
a smoking man's taste.
*If you checked (A) on three out of the first 
four questions, and (B) on four out of the last 
five ... you really think for yourself!
9 105. Browu fc Williamson Tobacco Corp.
?
?
aD ?
?
d-?
d
il
4. When invited to a party, do you (A) accept, hoping to enjoy yourself no matter who attends, or (B) try to learn 
who will be there before accepting?
Carnegie Tartan
Tarions
Beat
Presidents
Swimmers
Number 6
George Paris  Sports Editor
Tartans Bow To Panthers 75-65; 
Trounce W&J Presidents 70-62
Techs basketball Tartans start
ed out like a ball of fire but cool
ed off in the second half as they 
dropped their twelfth game of the 
season in losing to Pitt 75 to 65.
In the early first half play the 
Cratsleymen could do no wrong 
as they hit on ten of their first 
thirteen shots and pulled in front 
of the favored Panthers by 16 to 
7 and 25 to 17 scores. The striking 
thing about this was Tech's abil
ity to master the Pitt zone de
fense.
Pitt started hitting in the late 
minutes of the first half as All 
American Don Hennon garnered 
13 points to bring the score to a 
36-36 tie at halftime. Stan Skalka 
was Techs big scorer in this half 
with 15 points followed by Bill 
Soffa with 10. Soffa drove in for 
several pretty layups in the game 
while helping to hold Hennons 
scoring down.
The Panthers started to pull in 
front in the mid-second half play 
as they broke a 46-46 tie and 
jumped to a 59-50 lead. Tech 
never made a serious threat after 
this and Pitt stalled the rest of 
the way to win 75-65.
Hennon was high scorer for 
Pitt with 26 points, but he should
Coach Mel Cratsleys sharp
shooting Tartans avenged an 
earlier defeat at the hands of 
W & J by swamping the Prexies 
by a 70 to 62 score.
Tech jumped off to an early 
lead and held it throughout the 
contest to win going away. The 
Prexies narrowed the margin to 3 
points several times but couldnt 
score the big baskets that could 
put them out in front.
Bill Soffa led a first half scor
ing barrage that brought the Tar
tans in front by a 35 to 23 score 
at halftime. W&J couldnt hit in 
this half as they missed several 
easy shots.
The Tartans mastered the Prex
ies zone defense in the second 
half after a narrow call (41-38), 
and pulled away for a fine vici tory.
The win was the seventh of the 
season for the Tech cagers who 
were led by Bill Sofias 32 points, 
his seasons high. Next week the 
Tartans entertain Waynesburg on 
the 18th and Slippery Rock on 
the 19th to end their home sched
ule.
also get credit for several fine as
sists to set up Pitt scores. Andy 
Komer led Tech scoring with 23 
points followed by Soffa with 18 
and Skalkas 17.
Printers, Obelisk, 
SN, Lead Bowling
With the intramural bowling 
season coming to a close, winners 
in the Spares and the Strikes 
Leagues, have not yet been de
cided.
Delta Upsilon who were lead
ing the Spares League were 
dumped by the second place 
Printers by a 4 to 0 score and 
fell into second place by two 
points behind the Printers.
In Strike League play the 
Sigma Nus lead the Obelisks by 
one point. These two teams were 
scheduled to meet last Saturday, 
but a conflict in schedules caused 
postponement of the match.
The top two teams in each 
league will enter the playoffs with 
the victors in the finals gaining 
the 1959 tronhv.
Andy Komer leaps high to stop Pitt goal try.
Swimmers In 
Fine Comback
Techs swimming team is stag
ing a fine comeback as they have 
won their last four meets in a 
row and boast a season record of 
six wins and three losses.
The Skibos downed a strong 
Oberlin team by a 51 to 35 co it 
to register their third victory in 
nineteen years against the Ober
lin squad (a major college swim
ming team).
Pat Crecine and Tom Vanderslam, Techs sophomore sensations 
led their team to victory as each 
were double event winners. Vanderslams specialties are the 220 
and 440 yard freestyles while Cre
cine swims the 100 yard dash, and 
both are on the relay team. Q*
In the Case meet which the 
Skibos won impressively by a 69 
to 17 score two pool records were 
broken. Ross Eigleman broke the 
220 yard freestyle record and Tom 
Vanderslam won the 440 in rec
ord time. Crecine was a double 
event winner in this meet also, in 
the 50 and 100 yard freestyle 
events.
The Skibos narrowly squeaked 
by their West Penn Conferee J5 
foes, Grove City, by taking a 44 
to 42 victory. The meet was de
cided by the last relay event 
which was won by the Tartan 
team composed of Fred Schirm, 
Tom Vanderslam, Ross Engleman, 
and Pat Crecine. Crecine and 
Vanderslam were again double 
event winners in this meet.
Pat- Crecine set a new team rec
ord of 54.8 seconds in the 100 
yard freestyle to lead the Skitens 
to victory over Fenn by a 49 ^o 
37 score.
Tom Vanderslam again won the 
220 and 440 yard freestyle events 
to pace the Tartans who are now 
sure to boast a winning seasons 
record.
The team has recently been 
bolstered by the return of Dick 
Line, a winner in many events 
last season. However the team has 
lost its star backstroke artist 
Norm Whale Willock for^a 
semester due to scholastic proba
tion.
Do You Think for Yourself ? ('Tz'xs.szr*)
The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows  FILTER ... A SMOKING MANS TASTE I
5. In buying a radio, would you be influenced more by (A) low price, or. (B) product features despite a slightly higher price?
6. When deciding on what movie to see, do you usually prefer films that (A) are gay and diverting, or (B) have a social message?
3. When invited to play an unfamiliar game, do you (A) refuse to play until you fully understand the rules, or (B) 
pick up the rules as you go along?
7. When you run into a foreign phrase in a textbook, do you first (A) head for a dictionary to find the meaning, or (B) 
try to dope out the meaning yourself?
8. When reading the paper, do you (A) catch yourself concentrating on scandal stories, or (B) spend your time on news and editorial matter?
%Familiar 
pack or 
crush* 
proof 
box.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 18, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
Interested in 
having your typing 
done for you? 
WE. 1-2271
Basketball 
earns Fight For 
layoff Berths
With nearly half the seasons 
lay completed the favorites connue to lead the pack in intraural basketball action. The top 
o teams in each league will 
(0pete in the playoffs with the 
nals to be played on intramural 
ight in March.
ATO A continues to lead the 
ong Shot league as they downed 
eta Theta Pi 36 to 17. TKN the 
cond place team will play ATO 
onday evening.
Tau Delta Phi and Sigma' Nu 
re leaders in the Set Shot league 
nd also play for what probablyt
be the league title on Monday 
ing.
Kappa Sigs have come up with 
fine team this year and are unefeated in Drive Shot League 
lay. The DUs are their main 
ontenders for the crown.
The Falcons downed their big 
pponent in the Foul Shot League, 
hi Kappa by a 47-45 score and 
/ill probably win that league 
itle and a playoff berth. The Phi 
'aps should likewise end up, in 
l^playoffs. _
The Englishmen, favorites for 
his years crown, lead the Hook 
hot League and should gain first 
lace in that league. Second place 
s a tossup between SAE, GCIA, 
nd the Architects.
Games are played in the Skibo 
ym every evening when there 
snt a home basketball game at 
:00 and 8:00. Action in the comng week play will definitely de0 berths in the IM playoffs.
New Dean
[continued from page I] 
third of the women attending Pitt 
now are transfer students. She 
pointed out that Carnegie Tech 
has an advantage in having a 
much lower transfer percentage, 
because their students sometimes 
find it difficult to adjust to the 
policies of a new school. Famil
iarity with policies such as Techs 
Carnege Plan results in a closerknit school, according to Mrs. 
Milligan.
Of the faculty, the new Dean
uclear Talk 
y DArdenne
J. Richard DArdenne, a field 
ngineer in the nuclear systems 
roup at Leeds & Northrup Comany, Philadelphia, addressed the 
tjjjent chapter of the American 
hemical Society at Carnegie 
ech on Monday evening, Feb. 16. 
is topic was Research Reactor 
nstrumentation.
He explained the development, 
ses and classes of nuclear re
ctors and described how modern 
nstrumentation plans an importnt role in their operation. He alo told what the future holds for 
his growing field.t
^rdenne holds a B. A. degree 
iberal Arts and a B. S. deree in electrical engineering 
rom Penn State University and 
urrently is working for his masers degree at the University of 
ennsylvania. He is a member of 
he American Institute of Elecrical Engineers, the American 
"uclear Society and Alpha Sigma 
hi.
said, I have discovered that the 
faculty is not only closely knit 
within departments but it also has 
close interdepartmental ties. Ive 
noticed that a history professor, 
for example, will equally enjoy 
broadening his knowledge of an
other field and discussing history 
at length. When I am in a group 
situation. I find myself discover
ing someone Ive not yet met. 
This persons interests become in
teresting to me, for they can teach 
me something new. This seems to 
be the general policy of Techs 
faculty.
FREE IN SKIBO
Oil Friday, February 20, the P. Lorillard Co. representative will be at Skibo Inn 
from 9:00-12:00 to distribute a free lighter 
with the purchase of five packs of either 
KENT, OLD GOLD, or NEWPORT cigar
ettes. Dont miss this tremendous get ac
quainted offer.
GIRLS!!!
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR 
SUMMER POSITIONS?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1959 camp 
season and if you can organize and teach arts and crafts, danc
ing, musifi, archery, tennis, nature study, if you can type and 
take shorthand, or if you are an American Red Cross Water 
Front Instructor, contact Miss I. Levy, the Marylander Apart
ments, Apt. 130, Baltimore, Maryland.
REGISTERED TRADE-MARK. COPYRIGHT  9S9 THE COCA-COLA COMPAMY.Q.E.D.
Yes, its been demonstrated time and time 
again, that for real refreshment its Coke 
every time! Add up that cold crisp taste, 
that lively lift and you really have a drink 
worth going after. So whenever the crowd 
has a multiple thirst, make the high sign 
of good taste . . . pass around the 
Coca-Cola! Quod Erat Demonstrandum!
BE REALLY REFRESHED ... HAVE A COKEl 
Bottled under outhority of The Coca-Cola Company by
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
S722 Central Avt. HI 1-011
GOES AND 
GOES AND
GOES ON A GALLON !
More miles are back in a gallon of regular-grade 
gasup to 10% moreand Chevy9s new Hi-Thrift 
6 engine puts them, there. It also gives you more 
in the speeds you drive the most.
Heres an engine that always seems able to coax extra 
miles out of a tank of regular-grade gas. In fact, if youre 
one of those drivers who keep tab on things like gas 
mileage, youll soon see for yourself that this new HiThrift 6 gets up to 10% more miles a gallon.
Another thing youll like about this 135-h.p. 6 is the
extra pep it gives you for passing and climbing hills. Thia 
is due to higher torque at normal speeds.
It may be hard to believe anything that looks and 
moves like this 59 Chevy can be such a stickler for 
economy. Butwhether you pick the Hi-Thrift 6 or a 
vim-packed V8this is just 
one more reason Chevys 
the car thats wanted for all 
its worth. Stop by your 
dealers and see. The smart switch is to the 59 Chevy/
J- PAUL SHEEDY,* hair specialist, 
*ays: "Gives your hair a neat, healthy 
pe-earance! 
*f m So. Horrii Nil! ltd.. WiUiamovilU. N. T.
Just a little b<t 
of Wildroot 
and...
Biscayne l^-Door Sedan shows the Fisher Body beauty of Chevrolets lowest priced series for 59.
nowsee the wider selection of models at your local authorized Chevrolet dealers!
m

---------------------------------------------------

Page SCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, February 1*. 195$
f continued ftom page 1] 
Nocturn. Kappa Kappa Gamma 
 A Cornish May Son g, 
Wishes.
Sigma Kappa  Lollytoodum, 
I'll Never Walk Alone. Alpha 
Tau Omega  Deep Wet Moss, 
Cossack. Beta Sigma Rho  
Hospodi Pomiloi, (not yet an
nounced). Beta Theta Pi  The 
Pine Tree, We Are The Music 
Makers. Delta Upsilon  She
nandoah, .Down .Among .the 
Head Men. Kappa Sigma  
Didnt My Lord Deliver Daniel, 
Be Thou Not Still, Oh Lord.
Fin?le
Phi Kappa  Seventy-Six 
Trombones, Battle Hymn of the 
Republic. Pi Kappa Alpha  
Wonderful Copenhagen, Au
tumn Leaves. Sigma Alpha Ep
silon  The Rakes of Mallow, 
Dark Water. Sigmu Nu  
Glorious Apollo, Dimmi Dolce 
Maria. Tau Delta Phi  RockA My Soul, Halls of Ivy. Theta 
Xi  Hipppopotamus Song.
[continued /rom page 1] 
Negro youth in their attempts to 
attend college.
10% Special Tech Project  
student of Tech determine how 
ten per cent of the total Chest 
may be used to help students.
20% Social Service Organizations
10% Save the Children Federa
tion  deals with the activity 
areas of overseas children, over
seas schools, emergency refugee 
program, village self-help pro
jects, American Indian children 
and schools. Southern mountain 
schools, clothing program, and 
works with other child welfare 
services.
5% United Fund of Allegheny 
County  units the appeals of 
many agencies, including the Al
legheny County Community 
Chest, American Red Cross, Arth
ritis and Rheumatism Foundation, 
Salvation Army and Palsy Asso
ciation,
15%Medical Services
10 % American Cancer Society 
 provides help for cancer pa
tients and conducts research into 
possible cancer cures.
5% Childx-ens Hospital of Pitts
burgh  a nationally recognized 
medical center specializing in the 
care of children and in the re
turn of the physically abnormal 
child to normal life.
5% Heart House  gives the 
child afflicted with rheumatic 
heai't disease the opportunity to 
regain his health while happily 
occupied with the similarly handi
capped.
Anyone who does not wish to 
accept these allocations is re
quested to indicate on his envel
ope exactly how he would like 
his contribution divided.
As in the past, it will be pos
sible to indicate a pledge if the 
person wishes to donate later by 
giving name, school address, and 
amount and date of donation on 
the back of his envelope.
Arrow cotton 
Wash-and-Wears 
earn their way
?through college
Why spend dato money sending 
shirts home? Just wash and dripdry these Arrow cotton wash-andwears and youre ready to go.
Only Arrow offers so wide a 
range: your favorite styles of col
lars and cuffs in oxford and broad
cloth, in white, solids and patterns.
And every shirt features ex
clusive Arrow Mitoga-tailoring. 
$4.00 up.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
FOR COMPLETE 
and GIFT SELECTIONS
 Try Us First OAKLAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE, PAINT,
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923
first In fashion
English: DRIVE-IN MOVIE ON A RAINY NIGHT
^ " m/ / Think/ish translation: This drive-ins main
/// Mature: pictures matched to the weather. In
January, its Snow White; in July, Hot Spell. 
When it pours, of course, the program is all wet : 
y Singing in the Rain, Hatful of Rain and Raintree County. On such nights, the 
only (Thinklish) word for this 
place is damphitheater! Better 
turn on your windshield wipers,

'//' ' light up a Lucky, and enjoy the if ^
honest taste of fine tobacco. j^/wcKy\
Then It's Always Fair Weather! ^rww/
Military
[continued from page 1 ] 
ed by the student body, including 
members of the regiment.
Tickets
Military Ball will be on March 
21 from 8:30 p.m. until 1:00 a.m. 
The price of tickets are $3.50 per 
couple, which is not much con
sidering that a regular Saturday 
night date to a movie costs in the 
neighborhood of $4.00.
Because of tl e new look in Mil
itary Ball 1959 and because it is 
an all-school event, it should be 
well attended. It is guaranteed 
that all will have a good time.
Thinklish : SPINSTITUTiON
CHARLES HOSTED. U OF COLORADOMAKE
[contiunGreat ScotStart talking our languageweve got 
hundreds of checks just itching to go! 
Were paying $25 each for the Thinklish 
words judged best! Thinklish is easy: its 
new words from two wordslike those on 
this page. Send yours to Lucky Strike, 
Box 67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Enclose your 
name, address, college and class.
Interested in writing? The 
Great Scot is now looking for 
new writers who wish to con
tribute to the magazine. For 
information contact Jeremy 
Lewis at R300 Welsh or via 
the campus mails.
Get the genuine article
Get the honest taste 
of a LUCKY STRIKE
tngiis*: seasick Mayflower
Get WILDR00T 
CREAM-OIL Charlie!
Thinklish: SCOOPEBVISOR
eoe CARNEGI STRUCEOFUERH
OOZING WRAITH
English: LOUD-MOUTHED APE
JAYNE
NEANDERTHAL, 
prominent 
clubwoman, ays: 
"I go wild fot a , 
Wildroot man!'* i
TARRANWOTThmktishg OLABOONThiftktjshThinklish t ILLGRIM
4>t V. OF N. CAROLI*
 TOOHE. corpi* 0LLE6EJvst a litm bit I of Wildroot j And...WOWfProduct of
