1 ' '  ' 4
ATO And DG Awarded First Places In Competition
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
VOLUME 52NUMBER 16
OF TECHNOLOGY
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 1959
Last Years Winners 
Repeat At Greek Sing
Delta Gamma and Alpha Tau Omega were awarded the 
first place Greek Sing trophies Saturday evening during the 
intermission at Greek Swing at the Syria Mosque. This was 
the second consecutive year that DG won and the third year 
in a row for ATO to place first in*-----------------------------------------------
Carnegie Technical
i
Upg-'Greek Sing and Swing cochairmen Marge Warner and Jack 
Roose presented the second and 
third place cups to Delta Delta 
Delta and- Beta Theta Pi and to 
Chi Omega and Sigma Nu, re
spectively.
Other Awards 
Also awarded at intermission 
were the senior and junior Panhel and CFP scholarship trophies, 
and Chi O received the senand junior Panhel trophies, 
respectively, while ATO won the 
CFP scholarship cup.
Approximately 1700 people 
heard this years Greek Sing com
petition Fxiday evening, February 
27, at the Carnegie Music Hall. In 
order to limit the size of the audi
ence to comply with a fire ordin
ance, tickets for Sing were dis
tributed this year. The number 
people attending Sing, how7er, was considerably less than 
the expected audience of 2000, 
DGs winning selections were 
Ora Pro Nobis and The Gal
way Piper. The group was under 
the direction of Greta Gilmartin. 
ATO sang Deep Wet Moss and 
The Cossack and was directed 
by Vic Hill.
(For pictures of the Greek Sing 
winners, see page 8.)
Greeks Pledge 
77 Tech Girls
Two and a half weeks of soror
ity rushing ended last Wednesday, 
February 25, with the bidding and 
informal pledging of 77 Tech
 coeds.
Rush statistics revealed that of 
#e 112 girls starting rush Febru
ary 8, 79 filed bids and 76 re
ceived bids. One girl was open
bid.
The names of the sorority
pledges follow.
Alpha Epsilon Phi: Jane Barbrow, Sylvia Bronstein, Beth
Goldbitz, Sharon Gomberg, Sandy 
Korn, Patty Judkoff, Judy Krause, 
Trudy Krause, Evelyn Leff, Shel
ley Lifshutz, Lois Margolish,f
^inna Snyder, Dotty Steerman, 
harna Rosenthal.
Chi Omega: Lani Freedman,
Mary Hopkins, Mary Jo Loomis, 
Anne Schuetz, Jan Snider, Doro
thy Tsagaris.
Delta Delta Delta: Nan Elson, 
Roberta Foot, Pat Goodell, Kathy 
Huntington, Phyllis Ihrig, Ruth 
Kibler, Carolyn Keister, Becky 
Krauss, Brenda Mast, Trixie Mc
Cabe, Pat Moore, Carolyn Nevins, 
fue Rau, Barbara Wass.
Delta Gamma: Nancy Altenhoff, 
Nancy Buchter, Dotty Gantos, 
Rita Hickman, Judy Kostura, 
Mary Lou Kovacs, Connie Koval, 
Joan Light, Carol McKee, Mary 
OBrien, Sara Shook, Jane Thomp
son.
Kappa Alpha Theta: Heddie
Bates, Wanda Benintend, Ferris 
Ruck, Susie Burr, Jan Conrad, 
[continued on page 12]

February Issue 
Now On Sale
The February issue of the Car
negie Technical will be placed 
on sale on Wednesday, March 4.
Honor boxes containing the 
magazines will be found in Skibo, 
in the front of A.H. and in the 
lobby of E.H. The price is $.25.
Features
Featured in the magazine are 
articles on various scientific sub
jects written by undergraduates 
at Carnegie. Among the articles 
are: Million Moons by Paul 
Hess, Physics 62, concerning Sat
urns rings; Scientific Facts of 
Life by Robert DelVecchio, 
Chemist 61 and Lawrence Press, 
IM 61; and number four of five 
articles describing the atomic re
actor at Shippingport, Penna.
In addition to the full length ar
ticles, there are notes of current 
scientific interest in the techni
calities department.
The Technical is circulated to 
almost every state in the union, 
and to several foreign countries. 
It is one of the few college maga
zines filed by the Library of Con
gress. It has recently been added 
to the files of the Soviet Acad
emy of Science.
Mr. Edward Trainor
Tuesday Assembly Speaker
Russian Novelist 
Will Be Subject 
Of Next Lecture
By Georgia White
The consideration of the great 
Russian novelist Leo Tolstoy as a 
moral and religious teacher and 
as an author will be presented by 
Mr. Edward A. Trainor at the 
March 10 student assembly in the 
Fine Arts Theater at 11:30. This 
will be the third speech of the 
English Lecture Series.
Instead of discussing in detail 
Tolstoys well-known novels 
Anna Karenina and War and 
Peace, Mr. Trainor will concen
trate on the writers later works 
emphasizing the spiritual quest 
which led Tolstoy to devote his 
life to promulgating the partic
ular moral and theological views 
which he held.
Later Books
These later books included 
What Is Art? a profound an
alysis of the nature of art, Con
fession, and auto-biographical de
scription of the great spiritual 
[continued on page 12]
Early Figures Show 1959
Campus Cliest Faring Well
By Nancy Beuson
Charley Brown is feeling happythe 1959 Campus Chest 
campaign seems-to be going well.
By this time everyone on campus should have been con
tacted at least once by their solicitor. This contacting is done 
twenty hours of work a day*
according to the place the student 
resides.
Percentages
A running percentage of the 
participation in each case is kept, 
but there has been some con
fusion in the keeping of accurate 
totals due to students turning in 
their pledges at the wrong places. 
For example, fraternity men liv
ing, at the fraternity house should 
pledge through the house while 
fraternity men living in the 
dorms should pledge through the 
dorms.
When a pledge is given through
a place other than the students 
residence, the solicitor does not 
get credit for the pledge and the 
wrong group gets the credit in the 
running totals.
It is possible to pledge for a 
future date by filling in your 
name, school, address, and the 
amount and date of donation on 
the back of the envelope. Pledges 
can be allocated to any charity 
represented by the Campus Chest 
by filling in the name of the 
charity on the envelope.
Snoopy has made his pledge 
already and given a big pile of 
bones. Can you say as much?
DG And ATO Win
Scholarship Cups
The statistics on fraternity, sorority, and all-school fac
tors for the 1958-59 fall semester, released last- week, revealed 
that only the all-sorority average was higher than the factors 
of last spring.
Delta Gamma and Alpha Tau*----------------------------------------------------
Cor die Introduces 
'59 Military Rail 
Queen Candidates
Last Thursday, the candidates 
for Military Ball Queen of 1959 
were presented to the student 
body by master of ceremonies, 
Rege Cordic.
Although intermittently blinded 
by flashbulbs, Rege could not 
help seeing that this was one of 
the finest groups of queen can
didates assembled in a long time.
The candidates presented were: 
Vivienne Heinricher, DDD; Judy 
Milinovich. SK; Elaine Levenson, 
KAT; Zendy Long, D Tower; Bea 
Alexander, DG; Jackie Thurston, 
A Tower; Marine Malabel, A EPhi; Elaine Frank, Chi O; Sue 
Trustman, B Tower; Fran Teviotdale, C. Tower; and Gloria Cofsky, KKG.
Representatives 
Each candidate represents one 
of the seven sororities or one of 
the four towers of Morewood. The 
representative from each group 
was chosen by her sorority sis
ters or dormitory neighbors, the 
girls, as Mr. Cordic put it, with 
whom she coexists.
The judo exhibition by the 
Pittsburgh Judo Club had to be 
cancelled because the set for The 
Wild Duck did not leave suffi
cient room. But with Cordics 
jokes and the beautiful candi
dates, no one left The Little 
Theatre disappointed.
Omega led the sororities and
fraternities in scholasticaverages
with factors of 2.870 and 2.465,
respectively. They were presented
the Panhel and CFP scholarship
trophies last Saturday evening at
Greek Swing. Chi Omega led the
sorority pledge factorswith a
2.895 and was awardedthe j unior Panhel trophy.
The breakdown of fallsemester
factors follows.
Factors
Delta Gamma ............? 870
Kappa Kappa Gamma.2.804
Chi Omega ..................?, 788
Delta Delta Delta2,778
Alpha Epsilon Phi? 546
Kappa Alpha Theta.,2.538
Sigma Kappa ............?. 456
Alpha Tau Omega . . .2 465
Beta Theta Pi ............2 416
Pi Kappa Alpha ........2 329
Sigma Alpha Epsilon. .2.284
Delta Upsilon ............2 265
Beta Sigma Rho ........2.245
Sigma Nu ....................?, 213
Kappa Sigma ..............2.170
Tau Delta Phi ..........2 166
Theta Xi ......................2.080
Phi Kappa ..................?. 041
All-sorority ................2 715
Independent women .. .2.418
All-women ..................2 499
All-school ....................2 370
All-fraternity ............2 260
Independent men362
2 323
Presentation I The queen will be presented at
Shown above is Rege Cordic,  the Military Ball held on March 
emcee at the presentation of the 21 in the Webster Hall Hotel. She 
1959 Military Ball Queen candi- will be determined by the result 
dates. Seated are six of the can-; of two elections. On March 5, all 
didates. From right to left, they; eleven candidates will be preare: Judy Milinovich, Maxine Ma-; sented to the Thursday ROTC 
label, Zendy Long, Elaine Leven-! classes. At that time a vote will 
son. Vivienne Heinricher, and be taken which will narrow the
Elaine Frank.
Do Unto Others
Q; Do C,cimp nCl,ei
field to five finalists. On Tuesday, 
I March 17, a school wide vote will 
j be conducted to select the winI ner.
Polling places will be located 
both in Skibo and on the Cut 
from 11:30 to 1:30. The vote will 
be tabulated secretly and the 
queen will remain unknown un
til announced during the ball.

---------------------------------------------------

Pa* *CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, March 4, 1959
Coed Of D,I U/eet
. ;,., j x
 ! ' ' ' v .y*,S' ' ' "* *
... . < .**'"' x',
| - ^ I ' I (< S|if| Ip
  : X ' '  ' '  i-'  ;  :  ' ' ' 
Bashein
Fran Teviotdale
Junior Science Major
glmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm^mmmmmmmm mmmmmmmmw^
i Entry Blank i
Coed of the Week Contest ! i
i Name ................................................................................................................... i i
' Address ........................................................................................................ !
* Phone ......................................................................................................... i i
i Submitted by.................................................................................................... i *
Match Individual 
With His Company 
Says Dr. Gilmer
The increasing concern of lead
ers in industry in matching in
dividual personality with com
pany personality was the sub
ject of a talk by Dr. B. Von Hal
ler Gilmer to the Rotary Club to
day.
Dr. Gilmer, Head of the CIT 
department of psychology, based 
his remarks on research data 
compiled from over 15,000 stutiies of industrial psychology 
problems.
Match The Individual
If we better match the in
dividual with his corporate cli
mate, we will tend to reduce ap
preciably emotional disturbances 
in people, Dr. Gilmer stated.
For instance, take the example 
of the middle age manager who 
finds himself caught between his 
wn personality changes and or
ganizational changes. The middle 
age revolt comes when a per
son realizes he is not as flexible 
as he used to be and has reached j 
the point of no return. He must 
live in the climate in which he 
finds himself because he has so
much invested.
Growing Awareness
Dr. Gilmer emphasized the 
growing awareness of business 
and industrial psychology by 
pointing out that after World 
War II there were about a dozen 
psychologists in industry whereas 
today there are hundreds.
Not only are businessmen be
ginning to understand the psy
chologist, but equally important, 
the psychologist is beginning to 
understand the business man. It 
is this mutual interest that gives 
us hope that we are not only 
achieving progress in induhtrial 
efficiency but an awareness of 
the human element in our eco
nomy that leads to the improve
ment of our nations mental 
health. .
New .Book
Dr. Gilmer is currently collab
orating with several psychologists 
in large corporations in preparing 
a new book which will be unique 
in combining descriptions in in
dustrial environment with a 
systems analysis approach. This 
book, to be published in March, 
1960, deals with human factors in 
the aspects of man-machine sys
tems, still, however, stressing the 
importance of the human being as 
an individual.
C-Book Supplement
This year Alpha Phi Omega is again putting out a C Book sup
plement for the second semester. This supplement will present changes 
ot address or telephone number for individuals, second semester of
ficers of those organizations which elect new officers for the second 
term, and information 1' new students. However, it is up to the in
dividuals and the organizations themselves to inform the C Book 
supplement committee of Alpha Phi Omega of these changes. The 
form below may be csed fo rtnis purpose. When filled oat, it may be 
deposited in the intra-school mail. The C Book supplement will be 
available in the Bookstore, free of charge, when it is completed.
NAME .........................................................................................
CLASS................ DEPARTMENT.................... PHONE
ADDRESS ...................................................................................
Dink Snatching 
Out of Hand
By Jan Nolopoulos
Now that sorority rush is over 
and the rushees have pledged, it 
is a common sight to see girls 
with varied colored dinks run
ning around campus.
May I say that running must be 
taken literally. Since last Wed
nesday, when the pledges received 
their dinks, they have been lead
ing a merry chase with fraternity 
pledges who are seeking to take 
their dinks away from them. And 
may I also say that if some basic 
ethical practices are not applied 
to the dink-snatching, it will no 
longer be common to see these 
dinks on campus.
Ethical Code
There is an ethical code con
cerning how a fraternity pledge 
can take a dink, and that is, if 
the sorority pledge has put her 
dink down or is not wearing it on 
her head, the fraternity pledge is 
legally right in taking it. But to 
sneak up behind the sorority 
pledge and grab it from her head 
before she has a chance to run 
is not only unethical but can also 
get painful considering the hairpulling and fights that occur.
Another solution to the problem 
of not having dinks seen on the 
sorority pledges is a suggestion 
made by the sorority officers: 
when a dink is taken from a 
pledge, it must be returned with
in 24 hours. However, a fraternity 
pledge who does take a dink, law
fully gives his fraternity the right 
to have the sorority pledge class 
serve dinner some night at his 
fraternitys house.
Proud
In the interest of the sororities, 
who are proud of their pledges 
and want the campus to know 
them, how about giving the dinks 
back when you get one? And in 
the interest of the fraternities, 
who have the right, once theyve 
obtained a dink, to have the sor
ority pledge class serve dinner, 
here are the names of the soror
ity girls to contact concerning the 
time and date of dinner, and 
number of pledges necessary to 
serve.
AEPhiSheila Lehraupt ....
5-D MG
ChiODespo Starves. 2-B MG
DDDJoan Litchfield.3-C MG
DGBea Alexander. . 6-B MG
KATSally Lindsay ..........'.
MU 1-1443
KKGAnn Sowell .4-D MG
SKLois Walters .MA 1-2127
(^odecficite
(^alencli
. . .
kinsburg High School Audit^l 
ium. George Reynolds, director J
the Tech Kiltie Band willorJ
duct the orchestra. AlbertJ 
Cheids solo pianist, will piajl 
Rachmaninoff C Minor Concerto I 
The orchestra will play Han<u 
-ls Water Music Suite, Saint.I 
Saens Marche Militaire Francais 
By Barb Jones The Intermezzo and Sera^l
Saturday, March 7, at 3 p.m. from Hassau by Deluis, seleJ 
there will be a Carnegie Jazz ! tions from The King and I bjl 
Matinee at the Carnegie Music \ Rodgers, and Haydn's Violin Con.l 
Hall. certo No. 1 in C major, with conj
The jazz artists include the certmaster Edward Frohlieir a,| 
George Zinsser Band (fifteen all- soloist.
stars), Tommy Turk and Dueces 
Wied, Benny Bernark and his 
Gateway Six, Joe Negri Trio, 
Johnny Costa Quartet, and vocal
ist, Nina Stewart. Admission 
prices range from $0.99 to $2.40.
On the same day, March 7, at
Hewlett Gallery
From March 2 to 22, prints bjl 
Los Angeles artists Leonard EdJ 
mondson, Inez Johnston, andl 
June Wayne will be on exhi)^ in| 
the College of Fine Arts, Hewlett] 
Gallery.
The 46th Annual Pittsburgh!8:30 p.m. at the Music Mall, the international Solon on Photo. 
Budapest String Quartet will be graphic Art will be showing atj
sponsored by the New Friends of 
Music in a chamber music con
cert.
Civic Symphony
Also on Saturday, March 7, at 
8:30 p.m. the Wilkinsburg Civic
the Carnegie -Institute untill 
March 15.
Blue Denim will be running^ 
at the Playhouses Hamlet StreeJ 
Theater until March 7. Marjf 
Stuart is playing simultaneously!
Symphony will present its third j at the Craft Avenue Theater i^\til| 
concert of the season in the Wil- March 21.
Emerson Club 1 Newman Club
Dr. Homer Jack, world traveler Newman Club meetings are 
and expert on Africa, will speak j now held on Thursdays at 12:30
at the Emerson Club meeting at 
the First Unitarian Church (Ells
worth and Morewood Avenues)
Sunday, March 8, at 3:00 p.m. Dr.
Jacks topic will be Africa 
Aflame. The Emerson Club in
vites all students to take ad- there will be Newman Club initiin PH 100. Father Biller is con
tinuing his lectures on ethics.
The Catholics on campus are 
invited to attend the 7:45 Stations-of-the-Cross on Friday at 
St. Pauls Cathedral. At
vantage of this opportunity to 
meet, hear, and question Dr. 
Jack.
Sing Pictures
Anyone interested in buying 
group pictures of the sorori
ties and fraternities in Greek 
Sing should contact John Philbrick at MA 1-6452 or Jack 
Weinbold at EM 2-0840. The 
pictures will cost $1.00 per 
shot and will be delivered 
within two weeks of the pur
chase date.
ations for all who have not been 
initiated as yet. A general busi
ness meeting for all members will 
follow this to approve amend
ments to. the club constitution.
LITTLE MAN ON.CAMPUS
fcrrgfZ. 6CT A RAfcHLiTg AN ZBB \NMAT'$ 60lN6 
0ACIC IN THE 
Fine Arts Visited 
By Internationaljy 
Famous Architect
Mr. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, 
internationally recognized as an 
architect and designer, is pre
sently visiting the department of 
architecture at Carnegie Tech.
A director of Germanys fa
mous Bauhaus in the early thir
ties, Mr. van der Rohe has been 
director of the department of 
architecture at Illinois Insti 
of Technology in Chicago si 
1938.
Recent Work
One of his recent and most 
familiar works is the striking 
steel, bronze, and glass Seagram 
building in New York City. Mr. 
van der Rohe is currently at work 
on large apartment projects for 
Chicago, Detroit, and New York, 
and office buildings in Mexico 
and Cuba. v.
It was in the twenties thatHhe 
first received world acclaim with 
his designs for the Barcelona 
Pavilion and the WeissenhofSied
lung in Stuttgart.
Honorary Degrees
In addition to honorary degrees 
from the Technische Hochschule, 
Karlsruhe, Germany and the 
University of North Carolina, 
Mr. van der Rohe has received 
the Medal of Honor of the Cfj?- 
gress of Pan American Arntects; the Award of Merit, Kuskin 
Society of America; Feltrinelli 
Prize, International Prize for 
Architects, Rome; the Gold Medal 
of the American Institute of 
Architects; a life membership in the Order Pour la Merite in Ger
many; and an honorary member 
of the Royal Institute of British 
Architects.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 4. 195CARNEGIE TARTANPaffe *
^----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------..----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Center of Learning
President Warner Discusses Tech's Place In Education
(Editor's Note:
President John C. Warner on November of 
1958 issued a statement about Carnegie Techs 
nlace in the field of higher education. The text of 
statement follows.)
The philosophy of good higher education is 
almost as old as the hills and it has been express
ed over and over again by great scholar-teachers 
both before and after Cardinal Newman. It is as 
valid today in our nuclear-powered, sputniksprayed age as it was in the days of the water 
wheel and ox cart.
In the first place, good higher education is ed
ucation for the long pull. It is education for a life
time of learning and intellectual growth. Good 
higher education places emphasis on the intellect
ual development of the individual students to the 
limits of his capacity. It should provide an un
derstanding of our heritage and our society; a 
firm set of values; a mastery of the fundamental 
disciplines of one or more scholarly fields; an abil
ity to define problems; the ability to marshall 
^lasic ideas, principles, theories and values to find 
an orderly solution to a new problem or a new 
situation; the habit of learning something from 
each experience; skill in the arts of communica
tion; and the motivation for continuing to learn 
throughout life so that one may grow to full stat
ure as a scholar or professional person and as a 
citizen.
The Right and the Privilege
$ Unfortunately there Is no evidence of universal 
dedication to the philosophy I have outlined. It 
seems that with almost every rocket blast-off 
or fizzle a new messiah appears with a panacea 
urging us to do something different about higher 
education right away. Indeed if one were to 
judge by the proliferation of articles and speeches 
on the subject by many who profess to speak for 
education, one would gain the impression that 
jtere is no time-tested basic philosophy of good 
higher education. From these sources, one would 
have the impression that we are dependent upon 
flashes of insight revealed only to the occasional 
unusually gifted education. I am convinced that 
this is not true.
Why, then, the confusion and the lack of uni
versal dedication to a time-tested basic philoso
phy? I believe special groups are using these times 
^f crisis in world affairs to advocate higher edu
cation as a right, instead of a privilege to be ex
tended to those who have ability and the ambition * 
to learn and to grow in intellectual capacity. I 
doubt that many of our publicly-supported insti
tutions will be able to resist these pressures for 
almost universal higher education as a right, and 
for panacea programs advertised as being design
ed to beat the Russians. Some privately con-4
rolled colleges and universities will not resist the 
ressure but will yield to the hypnosis of num
bers and special programs.
The Objectives 
But out of all this confusion, 1 see the emer
gence of at least a modest group of colleges and 
universities who by their performance and stated 
objectives are not yielding. They are showing an 
unwavering devotion to the time-tested philoso
phy of good higher education.
To attain objectives consistent with this phi
losophy involves two things:
(1) the design of curricula which provide for
an optimum allocation of each students time and 
effort; and
(2) The encouragement of the jtype of teach
ing which will best accomplish their objectives 
and make the student self-reliant in learning, both 
during and after college.
Curricula in these institutions are not static 
because new knowledge is being discovered at a 
steadily accelerating rate in all scholarly and 
creative fields. And changes in society bring con
sequent changes in the needs of society.
The Carnegie Curricula
Carnegie is dedicated to this age-old philoso
phy of education and it is with this philosophy 
that we have set out objectives for liberal pro
fessional education in the fields to which we are 
devoted: engineering, science, various areas of 
management and industrial administration, the 
fine arts, and a few professional fields which offer 
special opportunities for women.
This philosophy of education is understood and 
subscribed to throughout Carnegie Tech by fac
ulty and administration alike. It is the great uni
fying influence among the various colleges and 
schools on our campus. We at Carnegie Tech have 
given much thought during the past quarter cen
tury, and especially since World War II, to the 
development of our curricula so they will best 
serve our students and society. First of all we see 
the need for a solid core of liberal studies in the 
humanities and social sciences for students in all 
professional fields. Consequently, all of our cur
ricula provide substantial time for these studies, 
and we have evolved an unusually effective se
quence of required and elective liberal studies. 
In this area I believe one may honestly say that 
Carnegie Tech took a position of leadership and 
that what we have done has had a beneficial 
influence, on professional education throughout 
America.
But we have done much more than liberalize 
our curricula in designing them to prepare our 
students for the long pull. In engineering, for ex
ample, there is a new emphasis on basic science 
and on engineering science. Although our curric
ula today seem well designed to meet the needs 
of the individual student and society, Im sure 
there will be further changes because Carnegie 
Tech intends, as it has in the past, to keep in tune 
with the times.
We have done very well in getting the kind of 
teaching favorable to the attainment of our ob
jectives. I know of no other college or university 
in which the faculty so universally has an interest 
in good teaching as at Carnegie Tech. The kind 
of teaching we need anw want is a difficult and 
time-consuming type of teaching. It requires an 
unusual amount of preparation and unusual skill 
in guiding the student to self-reliance in learning.
To perpetuate this type or teaching the deans, 
department heads, and skilled teachers on the 
faculty must continue to give much help and at
tention to the new teachers who join our ranks. 
We have not achieved the best teaching that we 
know how to do, and I doubt that we or any other 
college or university ever shall. But teaching of 
the kind that we advocate is so very important 
in fulfilling our mission of providing the best in 
liberal professional education to young men and 
women of above average ability that rewarding 
and encouraging it must have our attention year 
in and year out.
Contribution of a University
How well are our institutions of higher learn
ing fulfilling their other mission as centers of 
learning where new knowledge and new ideas 
result from research and other scholarly-creative 
activities? Here too, many colleges and univer
sities have diverted their people and facilities 
away from basic research to applied research and 
developmenta type of work which in my opin
ion can and would be more effectively done in 
industrial laboratories and the development lab
oratories of the Government Agencies. These in
stitutions fail to contribute their share of the new 
knowledge and new ideas which serve as the life
blood of all applications for our welfare and se
curity. These universities have yielded to eco
nomic pressure and have submitted to a worship 
of large research budgets whether or not they sup
port the type of work to which a faculty of schol
ars should be devoted.
On the other hand, those universities that have 
an unwavering devotion to the time-tested phi
losophy of good higher education are striving val
iantly to develop as great centers of learning in 
which their faculty members are supported in 
doing fundamental scholarly-creative work.
The Potential
Carnegie Tech has made excellent progress 
during the past quarter century as such a center 
of .learning. When one considers that 30 years ago 
Tech was primarily a group of undergraduate 
colleges, our progress is all the more remarkable. 
Today we can take pride in having on our faculty 
many scholars who enjoy distinguished national 
and international reputations. In each field of en
gineering and science we have substantial pro
grams of basic resarch and graduate work.
Our contributions through research to the be
havioral sciences and management sciences are 
truly outstanding. There is a steady increase in 
the creative-artistic productivity of our Fine Arts 
faculty, and we are encouraging research and ad
vanced education in biology, foods and nutrition, 
and textile science. We have not yet reached the 
limits of our potential for discovering new knowl
edge and creating new ideas. Our limitations are 
those imposed by our resources and as new re
sources come to us we shall go forward.
Summary
Finally, I would like to summarize the charac
teristics of those universities that are or will be 
providing the best in higher education, and are 
or will be our greatest centers of learning. These 
institutions will furnish us with new knowledge, 
new ideas, and leaders in all walks of life out of 
all proportion to their size or enrollments.
First of all, they will be places where we have 
as much peace, quiet and order as can prevail in a 
good university. They will be places where firstrate salaries are paid to first-class scholar-teach
ers; places where creative scientists, engineers, 
artists, and other scholars can be supported in 
their search for new knowledge and new ideas 
without placing restrictions on the direction their 
inquiries should take; places where creative scholare take an interest in, and feel a responsibility 
for, teaching the young; and they will be places 
where intellectual achievement and professional 
integrity are the principal goals of both students 
and faculty.
Carnegie Tech intends to continue its role as 
just that kind of university.
4CARCNEEGI STUV COLM 
GOLpe-H Tools op j
LasstYt erLLteey
goofc CAiy iw 
IN5Pto MESSACI 
OF fPUCATlOKfm WHY
PONT %iVIPE
no nmi&
NOSB- rn oneAiAKy A Orte S

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTAN'Wednesday. March 4, 1959
editorial
ThievesWill it HW?. 
Almost one thousand dollars is spent each 
year to replace books stolen from the Car
negie Tech libraries. A recent student inspec
tion of the campus fraternity houses turned 
up over 70 stolen library books. And this 
Bearch covered only a small percentage of 
the student body.
Student Congress is considering this prob
lem, with the thought of providing stiff pen
alties for persons detected stealing or defac
ing books. The presence of this problem on 
the Tech campus does not speak well of the 
character of the students; it is shameful and 
inconsiderate.
The Tartan hopes that congress will take 
quick action to curb this dishonesty among 
Techites. Expulsion for those who are caught 
and an effective way of keeping track of the 
books should provide sufficient motivation 
for being honestwhich apparently a sense 
of moral duty has been unable to do.
R. G. W.
Poor OV Greek Sing
Greek Sing this year wasnt good ol Greek Sing. Some
where along the line it lost many of the qualities which have 
in previous years made it so enjoyable. The many adverse 
comments heard about the lack of spirit Friday evening can 
be summed up in the statement of one outside spectator who 
said, Theyre simply standing on the stage going through 
the motions. The problem then, it would seem, is to deter
mine what made this years Sing different from the competi
tions of previous years so that the same condition can be 
prevented in the Sing competitions to come. Assuredly there 
is no simple answer to this question. However, two main 
factors are seen to have been responsible for the lack of en
thusiasm.
First, the arrangement of the program this year must 
be questioned. Five of the last six competing sing teams on 
the program were 1958 Sing winners. The Tartan feels that 
it was very unwise to set up a program with all of the poten
tially good ensembles in one place. Rather, the answer here 
would seem to be the return to the former practice of draw
ing for positions on the program, thus making it possible to 
intersperse the well-trained, much-practiced groups with 
those teams competing in Sing simply for the sake of enter
ing the competition.
The second factor which decreased the general spirit and 
fun of Greek Sing this year was the arrangements made for 
the audience. To comply with a city fire ordinance, the size 
f the audience had to be limited to 2000 and, accordingly, 
this number of tickets was issued. However, there still re
main many questions about how the distribution of tickets 
was handled. The Tartan feels that much of the usual in
terest and enthusiasm was dampened by the struggle over 
tickets. Numerous rumors and stories were circulated last 
week, some of which assuredly were untrue, but all of which, 
at the same time, added fire to an already tense situation. 
The Tartan suggests that next year the tickets be distributed 
almost exclusively to Greeks, with the possible exceptions 
being extremely interested administration and faculty mem
bers who will actually use their tickets of admission. The 
Tatran also suggests that next years Greek Sing Committee
* bear in mind that Greek Sing is a Greek weekend and 
should be kept that way. C.E.S.
Moscow Circus
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. Office phone, MU 2-4557; Co-Editors EM 1-7157 and MU 2-9053; 
Advertising Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school 
year except holidays and examination periods by the students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology,. Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Co-Editor ............................................................................................................................ Carol Sooby
Co-Editor ............................................................................ ........................................ Biebard Wiley
Associate Editor ................................................................................................................ David DollBusiness Manager ...................................................................................................... Lee AdeUberg
New* Editor ...................................................................................................Jan Notopoolos
Sports Editor .................................................................................................................. George Paris
Copy Editor ................................................................................................................... Jerry Snllivan
Second class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
WRITE Contest 
Receiving Early 
Student Response
By Leila Moore
Need ideas for WRITE? With 
the gratifying response since the 
first announcement appeared in 
the February 11 Tartan have 
come several suggestions.
WRCTs entry, remember, is to 
be in the form of a radio script. 
If your interest lies here and you 
havent come up with an idea yet, 
why not adapt a non-dramatized 
published work for radio? This
On May first this year the Russian will 
celebrate the glorious May Day Festival. 
Bombs and missels and long-range anti-antis 
will be dragged pompously through Mos
cows streets while cheering mobs pay hom
age to their steel masters.
On that same day Carnegie Tech students 
will make similar asses of themselves. Strain
ing fratty boys will lug $500 pastel booby 
traps onto a muddy field and exclaim to the 
world, Its Spring Carnival time again!
Of all the asinine, adolsecent spectacles 
that our supposedly enlightened administra
tion condones, Spring Carnival midway is 
the most nausiating. Every year the Betas * 
give each other the Grippe, the Sigma Nus 
break records or dishes, and the ATOs build 
frotesque formal gardens with azure dixie cups resplendent 
everywhere. How boringhow terribly, awfully, boring.
No one like to build the silly things, no one likes to play 
them, pay for them, or walk through the muddy cut. People 
flunk out, catch pneumonia, and shed arid tears when from 
losing an invaluable $11.00 trophy. All this for what? School 
spirit? A college atmosphere? Nonsense!
Why it is that a student body and administration of the 
caliber of Carnegie Tech cannot exert a minimum of intelli
gence and do away with this social monstrosity. One might 
answer that we must do something on that weekend, that 
the school year must be broken up by gala shrieks to release 
the students pent up frustration. Perhaps this is true but 
why must we include the most expensive and least appreciat
ed part of the weekend? Why not have clever little shows as
does Pitt and Duquesne? They cost less and are a great deal - 
involves creative ability as well more fun. If not these, then something elseanything. But 
as imagination, and is a peifectly ug do away with the teddy-bears and. cotton candy, the
berrygoround and the 13 hoop tosses, the mud and the fuss. 
Let us do something that we wil lenjoy and allow the Wilson 
Amusement Company earn its money elsewhere.
Blenheim
acceptable entry.
Suggestion 
A suggestion which is accept
able for either a WRCT or Scot 
entry is to select a short news
paper item and build a story 
around it. A sample item might 
read, Witchs Nostril, Iowa, 
March 4. Smedley G. Smythe bit 
a neighbors dog in retaliation to
day, after he had eaxmined the 
toothmarks in his left leg which 
were inflicted by the unfriendly 
animal.
According to the rules of 
WRITE, the entry for the Tech
nical is to be no longer than 4,000 
words. The Technicals staff, how
ever, advises us that this figure 
is seldom reached. The average 
length is 2,000 words. If an article 
covers its subject adequately, it 
need not be any longer.
Points And Keys 
Application Forms 
Can Be Picked Up
The Points and Keys Commit
tee of Student Congress announc
ed this week that applications for 
activities keys and awards to be 
presented at Spring Call Day are 
now available in the dean of 
mens office.
Keys will be presented to those 
juniors and seniors who have ac
quired 40 and 45 points respec
tively in campus activities. 
Awards will be presented to the 
ten applicants who have the 
highest number of accumulated 
points, with some honorable men
tions for closeness. Applications 
must be returned to the deans 
office no later than 4:30, Wed
nesday, April 1.
The Points and Keys Commit
tee strongly urges Tech students 
to apply for keys and awards. 
They are the official recognition 
of a students active participation 
on the campus all types and sizes 
of organizations.
illllllHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHlllllllllll
| Readers Write . . . |
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiji 
Greek Sing Lacks Spirit
Editor, the Tartan:
In many respects this years Greek Sing is an improve
ment over previous years, but certainly the competition lost 
some of the quality and interest of before.
The general opinion of the#-------------------------------------------------
Greek Sing Committee was that
the quality, difficulty and variety 
should be improved. To encour
age this, the grading was revised 
t give twenty-five percent to the 
selections alone. Some groups did 
a truly conscientious job of 
searching for new and worth
while material.
I would particularly praise Sig
ma Nu for braving not only 
church music but also a foreign 
language. Their selections showed 
balance, interest and good pro
gram building; their selections 
showed the abilities of the group 
and justly won them a trophy, 
this is the way to a good Greek 
Sing, and was used equally as 
well by each winning group.
Conversely there were houses 
which ignored the new feeling 
and used an old formula such as 
one show tune and one slow 
song or "one spiritual and one 
more serious song. This is not 
to say morbid songs or poor 
modern music is any the more 
enjoyable or worthwhile. These 
attitudes do not make a good 
series of Greek Sing concerts 
through the years. And quite 
often the audiences are bored 
with or tired of these presenta
tions. An interest in good selec
tions will, I think, create an in
terest in Greek Sing and put 
competition back into it.
This year we found houses 
withdrawing before the concert. 
They certainly did the listener a 
favor by not presenting a sad or 
ridiculous showing. They did not, 
however, do themselves good by 
not working together to present 
something listenable to the audi
ence. This is their problem  
poor participation, lack of a good 
director, or internal disagreement.
I only say that each house should 
make a sincere effort to put the 
most competent person in charge 
and to follow and -support him.
If this is done, the group can 
honestly say we did our best. 
Then if they think they are not ^ 
good enough to perform, with
draw and save the audiences ears 
and time. Greek Sing is a com
petition that a great percentage 
of a group can participate in 
easily, enjoyably and without 
much training. It is, if you will, 
a symbol of the ability to work 
together under competant leader
ship.
[continued on page 12]

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 4, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPuffe 5
i- ROTC
Guidon
CHUCK NELSON,
Saluting Has Value 
And Significance
What is the purpose of saluting? Why do the ROTC 
cadets salute the cadet officers on Thursdays? Isnt salut
ing just an enforced formality?
A very good explanation of the tradition and reson
behind the custom of saluting is*------------------------------------------------
given in the Cadet Regulations. ^ # #Commissioning 
Then What?
Since prehistoric times, men of 
arms have used the salute, not 
only as a gesture of greeting but 
always to express mutual trust 
and respect. Saluting has always 
been a privilege enjoyed only by 
soldiers in honorable standing. 
enturies ago, slaves were conjQered unworthy of bearing arms, 
and hence were forbidden to sa
lute freemen. Today, because they 
are not in good standing, military 
prisoners forfeit the right to sa
lute.
Dark Ages
The custom of saluting with the 
right hand dates back to the dark 
days of early history, when all 
men were armed and all strangers 
were possible enemies. In the age 
Is- chivalry the knights were all 
mounted and wore steel armor 
which covered the entire body, 
including the head and face.
When two friendly knights met, 
it was the custom for each to raise 
the visor and expose his face to 
the view of the other. This was 
always done with the right hand, 
the left being used to hold the 
reins. It was a significant gesture 
of friendship and confidence, since 
^ exposed the features and also 
removed the sword hand from the 
vicinity of the weapon.
Armed Men
Armed men, other than knights, 
usually wore no visors. On ap
propriate occasions, they held up 
the right hand, palm open. This 
gesture proved that no weapon 
was held in the hand and indi
cated that the meeting was a 
friendly one. The civilian customs 
it* tipping the hat to a lady and 
waving to a friend have the same 
origin.
The most evident of all military 
customs is the salute for it' is at 
once the most obvious and the 
most used. Executed properly, it 
indicates pride, self-assurance, 
and confidence  these attitudes 
are essential for the success of 
any group of men.
On the other hand, a poor salute
often interpreted as character
istic of carelessness, neglect, apa
thy, and sometimes of defiance and 
an unwillingness to subordinate 
the individual to the common 
good.
Military units today are only as 
elite as each individul man meas
ures his own stature; consequently 
this ancient customthe salute 
has become valued as a reflection 
of personal spirit, knowledge, and 
<ility.
Most of us have only a vague 
idea of what happens shortly 
after we get our commission.
We do know that soon after we 
receive our bars we must attend 
some sort of training camp. But 
what most of us do not know is 
the purpose of the camp, how 
long it lasts, what will we do, 
etc.
The Army, realizing that we 
are in this state of confusion has 
printed a bulletin which answers 
the seniors questions, and lets the 
rest of the cadets know whats 
in store for them. The following 
is a quote from that bulletin.
The Engineer Officer Basic 
Course, hereafter referred to as 
EOBC is intended to provide 
branch training for newly com
missioned officers so that they 
will have a working knowledge of 
the duties and responsibilities ap
propriate to their grade and ex
pected service. The course is 
taught in three phases as follows:
Phase 1. (2 weeks) The Basic 
Officers Military Orientation pro
gram, commonly referred to as 
BOMOP is, in general, a refresher 
course with emphasis on leader
ship ability, physical fitness and 
discipline. All students with less 
than one year of active duty com
missioned experience attend this 
phase of instruction.
Phase 2. (7 weeks) Is academic 
in nature and covers a variety of 
geenral military subjects. All stu
dents attend this phase of in
struction and upon completion 
those who attended Engineer 
ROTC schools and engineer 
ROTC summer camp are grad
uated from EOBC. Other students 
proceed to Phase 3.
Phase 3 (4 weeks) Does not 
concern us (sic).
Physical conditioning is stress
ed in all phases of the course. To 
prevent unnecessary strain stu
dents should condition them
selves prior to reporting to EOBC 
and be prepared to immediately 
run two miles and perform five 
repetitions of the Army Dozen.
In this short article we have 
tried to' answer the major ques
tions, but if their are any others 
you would like answered, send 
them to the Guidon, P.O. 191, 
Campus mail.
Code Of Conduct 
Set By Eisenhower 
For Armed Forces
By Andy Blaskovich
On August 17, 1955 the Presi
dent of the United States issued 
an Executive Order entitled A 
Code of Conduct which governs 
the actions of the members of 
the Armed Forces while they are 
in combat or in captivity.
The cadets, as future officers, 
are expected to measure up to 
standards prescribed in this code, 
and may someday be confronted 
by a situation, either in combat 
or in captivity, so therefore, each 
must be prepared. It is for this 
reason that in the following weeks 
an examination and analysis of 
each point will be conducted, un
less it is straight forward.
Six Point Code 
All together there are six points 
to be covered. Each may be of 
some benefit to the cadet.
I am an American fighting 
man. I serve the forces which 
guard my country and our 
way of life. I am prepared 
to. give my life in their de
fense.
This point is very definite. It 
states the reason why the Revo
lutionary War was fought. And 
also the viewpoint of the Ameri
can fighting man from Bunker 
Hill to Porkchop Ridge. Each was 
prepared to die, and many did.
I will never surrender of my 
own free will. If in command 
I will never surrender my 
men while they still have 
means to resist.
Cjuicll
Jlumor
ROTC Fi'eshman; I havent a 
pencil or paper for this exam. 
Sergeant Kmietowicz: W hat
would you think of a soldier 
who went into battle without 
a gun or ammunition?
ROTC Freshman: Id think he 
was- an officer.
Then there was the case of the 
young army doctor in the South 
Pacific who had diagnosed the 
ailment of a sergeant, but know
ing he could do little with his 
limited facilities wired the base 
hospital: Have a case of beri
beri. What shall I do?
The message was taken by a 
young technician at the base who 
wired back: Give it to the en
gineers. Theyll drink anything.
Jovial RQTC Sergeant: All right 
now. mister, what is maneu
ver?
Freshman Cadet: Something you 
put on grass, to make it green.
Announcements of the profes
sors new book and his wifes new 
baby appeared almost simultane
ously. The professor, when he 
was congratulated by a friend 
upon this proud event in your 
family, naturally though of that 
achievement which had cost him 
the great effort and modestly re
plied? Well, I couldnt have done 
it without the help of two grad
uate students.
u
MASTERS DEGREE CANDIDATES
in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, 
Mathematics and Physics
are invited to meet Representatives of IBM on
MARCH 19 and 20
For appointment, please contact your College Placement Office.IBM.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
Combat
This point applies to men in 
combat, and can be very contro
versial, Who is to judge when 
there is no longer a means to re
sist? Does resisting include both 
physical *nd mental resistance? 
When General Wainwright sur
rendered his command at Corre
gidor, had he .used up all means 
of resistance?
The question of the Wainwright 
surrender is brought up because 
of its consequence:the Bataan 
Death March. He had no way of 
knowing the circumstances. His 
decision was based on the current 
military situation, which at the 
time was hopeless.
The point is that you, as a fu
ture commander, are faced with 
a decision of whether to fight or 
resist. If you can no longer in
flict casualities on the enemy, it 
may be possible to escape and 
fight again. If this is impossible 
you may then continue resistance 
as a captive.
Limit to Resistance
But a limit is also reached in 
this type of resistance; in that to 
resist in such a way as to have 
the enemy take your life would 
be submission to his will.
Is point two then a contradic
tion of point one? No!
When a soldier can no longer 
inflict casualities on the enemy 
and can not escape capture, he 
can no longer defend his country. 
It is at this point that surrender 
must be considered. To surrender 
under these conditions might in
crease the individuals means to 
resistas a prisoner.
The points of the Code covering 
prisoners of war will be discussed 
in future issues of this column.
Slimmer Camp 
Is Crucial Step
By Dave Love
Summer camp, in a nutshell, is 
six weeks of Army basic-training 
plus intensive field training and 
application of Engineering and
Signal Corps techniques leirned 
during the first three yea/s of 
ROTC.
Because it is an officers 0a;c 
training, it requires more headwork than ordinary basic train
ing It is designed to prepare men 
to be officers by training both 
their minds and their bodies to 
accept the responsibilities of offic
ers.
This is a crucial step not only 
in a Cadets life but also in a 
professional mans career for it 
enables him to develop his strong
er leadership traits by practice It 
follows then that preparation for 
these few weeks require positive 
thinking.
Attitude
The first requirement is the 
attitude that Im going to mak# 
the most of these six weeks. This 
is my opportunity to exercise and 
work with other men toward a 
common goal; to observe and dis
cuss many ideas different from 
mine; to understand and appre
ciate the intricacies of the work
ing^ of a modern army.
Far-fetched ideas? Possibly, but 
you must admit that optimism 
does dull the effect of aggravating 
eventsand there will be many! 
Believe me, attitude is the thing 
that can make or break you 
whether its summer camp, school 
or a career.
Physical Fitness
Since gym has not been requir
ed of us for at least a year weve 
probably gotten out of shape or 
assumed a new one! Physical en
durance gained through exercises 
such as push-ups; chin-ups, situps, playing basketball in 90 
weather, and trotting a mile daily 
for at least two weeks before 
camp is the second preparation 
requirement.
This requirement supplements 
j attitude and must be emphasized 
| since experience has showrn that 
i twenty (20) hours of work a day 
I for the first week does, in fact, 
! demand physical endurance! Its 
| the attitude that will get you up 
i at four every morning while the 
1 endurance- keeps you working 
during the day.
COK6" 1$ A REGISTERED TRADE-MARK, COPYRIGHT  19*9 T*C COCA- <Prom trotter
r
Drinl1
mHoi
A
Shes the queen of the campus, and of 
course she favors you know what... 
the cold crisp taste of Coca-Cola. She 
knows that anytime, everywhere, Coke is 
the real refreshment. We dont say that 
the secret of her success is Coca-Cola 
... but it helps!
BE REALLY REFRESHED... HAVE A COKE!
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
QUAKSa ITATI COCA-COLA tOTTUNO CO.
&?SX C'eatre Ave. HI. t-ltlt

---------------------------------------------------

Page <CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, March 4, 1959
Carnegie Tartan
Varsity
Basketball
Closes
Track
Season
Opens Soon
George Paris  Sports Editor
Lions Tame Tartans, 64-59; 
Bisons Stomp Em, 75-61
State Wins
Techs injury laden basket
ball team wound up the season 
losing to Two of the higher rank
ing teams in the area Penn State 
and Bucknell. The double defeat 
gave Coach Mel Cratsleys 
charges a 9-15 record for the sea
son.
A highly rated Nittany Lion 
team tamed the Tartans at the 
Penn State gym by a 64 to 59 
score. The Lions jumped off to a 
large lead in the first half and 
stretched it to 39 to 24 at 4he 
half.
The Plaid came out to play 
basketball in the second stanza 
and almost closed th gap. With 
Andy Komer hitting with his
Bisons Victorious
Bucknells Bisons jumped off to 
a big first half lead and held it 
the rest of the game to tame the 
Skibos by a 75-61 score.
Bucknells Hal Danzig and 
Tommy Thompson were early 
guns for their team as they com
bined for 23 of the teams first 
half points and gave the Bisons 
a 45 to 28 lead at halftime. Andy 
Komer and Whitey Meuller kept 
the Tartans within striking dist
ance in this half as they hit for 
most of the Tech points.
Tech came back in the second 
half to close tihs gap as Buck
nell substituted freely. The Tar
tans never were close after the 
first half and Bucknell won going 
away by a 75-61 score.
Hard Luck Season
( Tech had much bad luck dur| ing this season as injuries hurt 
several of the key players. Bill 
Soffa, phenominal star last sea
son sustained a back injury early 
in the campaign and missed sev
eral games then. He also broke a 
! finger later in the season and 
; missed the last five games.
I It was a building year for 
I Coach Cratsley, and leaves the 
, Skibos with all performers except 
Bud Miller returning next season.
 Mike Theodores freshmen also 
! showed well in losing only three 
games and Coach Cratsley can 
| count on several good frosh for 
next years team. With a few 
breaks we are looking for Tech 
to come up with the best team in 
i the city next season.
Basketball Team
Tartan team finishes season with 
S-15 record. From left to right, 
front to rear, the team members 
are: Halo, Miller, Cassady, Skalka, 
Coach Fassinger, Huff, Williams, 
Soffa, Haggert, Mueller, Coach 
Cratsley.
Flynn,' Rapp, Epner, 
Lead IM Scorers
During the past week all playoff berths except one were 
determined. As expected the Englishmen, Falcons, and Ato 
clinched their leagues with PK B and TKN assuring them
selves berths by coming in second in their leagues. Howev.fr,
? the third second place team was
Tech Rifle Team 
Seeks To Repeat 
As National Champ
The Carnegie Tech Rifle Team 
travels to Maryland this week for 
the intercollegiate sectionals. The 
sectionals are the world series 
of collegiate shooting and Tech 
hopes to bring home laurels in the 
team competition.
In the individual competition 
Tech is counting on the greatest 
array of shooters in their history 
in an attempt to regain the Na
tional Collegiate Individual 
Championship which All-American Vic Polansky won in 1957 and 
lost in a tie in 58. The members 
going beside Vic are: Leon Andors, Larry Burtner, Bill Darby, 
Ben Freundereich, Barry Blunts, 
Bill Harris, Bill Houck, John Jen
kins, A1 Kanigsberg, Arnie Thunborg, and Bob White.
The team has gotten hot in 
the past few weeks. After setting 
a new league record, a fabulous 
1429, the Tartans \tfalloped Duquesne 1410-1360, beat Bucknell 
in a non-league match 1423-1388, 
and also a fired-up West Virginia 
team 1421-1414.
The W.V.A. box score:
Polansky .................. 289
Houck ........................ 285
Thunborg ................... 284
Freudenreich ............ 282
Andors ...................... 281
Life Saving
The Red Cross Senior Life 
Saving and Instructors 
courses are being offered to 
all Tech male students who 
are interested, and who can 
pass a preliminary swimming 
requirement, including a 
quarter-mile swim. The start
ing date is March 9. Classes 
will meet on Monday, Wed
nesday, and Friday, from 4:30 
to 6:00 p.m. for a five week 
period. Students who are in
terested may sign a roster in 
room 104 in the gymnasium. 
For further information con
tact Mr. Trezise in room 104 
or call Extension 412.
not decided until this past Mon
day avd the results are not 
known as yet. The two partici
pants in this game were TX and 
GSIA.
Crucial Games
In the past week two games 
between unbeatens decided tlie 
top two teams in their leagi&s. 
In the Set Shot League, the Met 
Grads dominated their game with 
Tau Delts. The football champs 
handed TDP their first loss and 
dropped the latter into second 
place while moving into first.
The other game involved the 
two undefeated teams in the 
Drive Shot League. As was ex
pected, Kappa Sig defeated the 
Delts in a rather close battle,
28. The Delts, in losing their first, 
slipped into second place, leaving 
KS with the undisputed hold on 
first place.
Outstanding Performances
Several fellows this past week 
overshadowed performances of 
past all-school players. There 
were four such fellows, and, sur
prisingly, three of them were 
freshmen^ Otto Leone, as usual, 
collected his bundle of points^o 
put .his team, A-level, in third 
place in their league. Joe Ludwig, 
Falcon junior, did such a good job 
this last week that he jumped 
from 18th to 8th in point per 
game average for the whole 
school.
The other two freshman are 
Enn Epner and Bill Slama, who 
appear to be the whole TX of
fense. Epner moved up one 
knotch from third to second^ n 
points per game; Slama jumped 
from 14th to 10th. Below are the 
top 20 scorers in the school:
Players PT PPG
1. Flynn, PK B ...........144 24.00
2. Rapp. Met Grads......... 92 18.40
2, Rapp, Met Grads.........92 18,40
4. Mehalko, Englishmen.. 36 18.00
5. Horey, Falcons' ...... 86 17.20
6. Leone, A-level ........... 92 15.33
7. Beisler, Englishmen ...61 15.25
8. LAidwig, Falcons ......... 72 14.40
8. Wallestein, BSR ..... 72 14.40
10. Slama, TX .................... 70 14.00
11. Petrain, GSIA .............69 13 V5U2
12. Bquxsein. SN ................66 13.
13. Ewing, DU .................... 63 12 60
14. Montgomery, DTD ... 37 12.33
15. Bates, Students ...........49 12.25
16. Patz, Met Grads .........57 11.40
17. Eisbacher, DU .............56 11.20
18. Wolfson, TDP ............... 53 10.60
19. Clark, BTP .................... 52 10.40
19. Norman, Met Grads .. 52 10.40
patented jump shot and Tom Huff 
and Stan Skalka making clutch 
scores the Skibos narrowed the 
score to six and four points, but 
failure to hit from the free throw 
line led to their defeat.
Tech made only 9 of 25 free 1 
throws while State hit for 10 of | 
19 which made for the Lion win. | 
State played control ball the last 
few minutes for the victory, the i 
final .score being 64 to 59.
CARNEGIE TECH
FG FT AFTPtsKomer................. 7 5317Skalka............... 2 115Miller ....................... 2 226
Mueller............... 5 7515Huff ...................... 3 117
Williams .................. 4 . 3311
Total* ................ 23 19
BlCKNGLL
1661
FG FTAFTPtfc
Harley ___............... 5 22v 12EriC' *jn . . ................ B 3315Danzig ------............. 9 3119Babich............... 0 222Thou p-on ................ 7 44IBMatz .......................... 4 l>0B
Evans............... 0 211
Total...............31 161375
Haiitime score: Bucknell 45.Tech28.
Senior engineering students.  
On Campus Interviews   . 
TUESDAY, MARCH 10
KCARF0TT CAPABILITIES INCLUDE:
tii))
firmtf
Tut
Coofrol 
tytlMM iM
interviewing for
ASSISTANT PROJECT ENGINEERS
Responsible training-program assignments offer varied expe
rience, and a chance to select the work you prefer for long-range 
growth. For example, lets examine the present training of 
Larry Wood, class of '58:
Larry chose the Navigational Systems Laboratory for his initial 
assignment. Here, he is working on the inertial guidance sys
tem for the SUBROC missile; he selects components such as 
networks and gear trains, specifies parameters such as amplifier 
gain, and is studying possible alternates to the present system.
If Larry requests permanent assignment in this Lab, he will 
write design specifications, sketch originals, and supervise 
draftsmen in the preparation of final prints. He will coordinate 
the efforts of engineers from supporting groups, supervise tech
nicians performing final systems tests and developing required 
supporting test equipment.
Larry is helping Kearfott grow, and he is 
growing with it. Similar opportunities exist 
for this years EE and ME graduates. Please
see your Placement Director for additional Kearfott Company, Inc.
information and for an appointment. isoo Main cntton. 1g ogA Mbtitflary of Soaoral Precision Fqulpmont Corporation
ti
Larry Wood, BSEE, University of Miino, 
June, 19M
KeuyfoU

---------------------------------------------------

Engineers
RAYTHEON'
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS TOR ARROW PRODUCTS
Nationally-known Clothing and Furnishings, featuring Ivy League Fashions
LEONARD S MEN S SHOP
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-5209 OAKLAND
ON-CAMPUS
INTERVIEWS
March 19, 1959
The makers of filter-lip Marlboro, who hring you this column, 
mre alto the makers of non-filter Philip Morris, irho also 
bring you this column. W hiclieiei you choose, you're right
Then one day came a phone call-from an intelligent sopho
more named Tom OShanter at a nearby mens college.  Blos
som/ said Tom, I want you to come down next week for the 
barley festival, and I wont take no for an answer.'*
No, said Blossom.
Foolish girl, said Tom gently. I know why you r< fuse me. 
Tt is because you are poor, isnt it.?'?
Yes, said Blossom.
I will send you a railroad ticket, said Tom. ^CARN a small 
calami in case you get hungry on the train.
But I have nothing to wear, said Blossom.
Tom replied, I will send you one suit of cashmere, two 
gowns of lace, three slacks of velvet, four shoes of calf, five socks 
of nylon, and a partridge in a pear tree.
That is most kind, said Blossom, but I fear I car.not 
dance and enjoy myself while back home my poor lame brother 
Tiny Tim lies abed.
Send him to Mayo Brothers and put it on my tab/ said 
Tom.
You are terribly decent, said Blossom, but I cannot come 
to your party because all the other girls at the party will be 
from rich, distinguished families, and my father EG but a humble 
woodcutter.
I will buy him Yosemite, said Tom.
You have a great heart, said Blossom. Hold the phone 
while I ask our wise and kindly old Dean of Women w hether it 
is proper for me to accept all these gifts.
She went forthwith and asked the Dean of Women, and 
the Dean of Women laid her wise and kindly old hand on 
Blossom s cheek and said, Child, let not false pride rob you 
of happiness. Accept these gift from Tom.
Lord love you, Wise and Kindly, breathed Blossom, drop
ping grateful tears into the Deans reticule. I must run and 
tell Tom."
"Yes, run, child, said the Dean, a smile wrinkling her wise 
and kindly old eyes. And ask him has he got an older brother.?
for a date..,
thanks to Arrow 
Wash and Wear
ATOndDGwar
Wednesday, March 4, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPa.gt 7
Your timing is as neat as your ap
pearance when the shirt is a new 
Arrow Wash and Wear. No wait
ing for the laundry. Just suds 
drip-dryand youre ready to go! 
Economical, too . . . your allow
ance goes further.
Carefully tailored by Arrow of 
100% cotton oxford and broad
cloth. Choice of collar styles in 
whites, stripes, checks, solids. $4,00 
Up. Underwear by Arrow, too.
Cluett, Peabody 9 Co., Inc.
POVERTY CAN BE FUN
Intramural
Highlites
By Chuck Vodvarka
Last week two intramural 
sports came to an end. One school 
champ was an independent team; 
the other a fraternity team.
BSR, the Cinderella team in the 
water polo playoffs, really came 
through in grand style as they 
polished off the favorites, ATO 
A, by a score of 7-4. Three 
goals scored in the last three min
utes proved to be the margin the 
Beta Sigs needed to win. The con
solation game found the Betas de
feating ATO B, 2-1. This game 
was marred by unnecessary 
roughness.
Ping Pong
The Obelisks are this years 
ping pong champs. They gained 
this distinction by defeating BSR 
in the finals. The consolation 
game has not been played as yet, 
but the Newman Club is favored 
to defeat TDP in conquest of 
third place in table tennis.
SAE was the winner of a tri
team bridge meet playoff for 
league play. This meat that the
Tartan Swimming Squad
Tech practices for the Penn-Ohio Meet.
FOR COMPLETE 
end GIFT SELECTIONS
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE, PAINT,
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923
You're always ready
Track Begins
All Tech students interested 
in running varsity track are 
urged to get in contact with 
Mel Cratsley, Director of Ath
letics in the Skibo Gym. All in
terested persons will be out
fitted with shoes and running 
clogs and workouts will be held 
daily indoors. As soon as 
weather permits workouts will 
be taken outdoors to the Schenley Oval. Coach Uhl Swaney 
has announced that every posi
tion on the team is open.
It is no disgrace to be poor. It is an error, but it is no disgrace.
So if your purse is empty, do not skulk and brood and hide 
your head in shame. Stand tall. Admit your poverty. Admit it 
freely and frankly and all kinds of good tilings will happen to 
you. Take, for instance, the case of Blossom Sigafoos.
Blossom, an impecunious freshman at an Eastern girls' 
college, was smart as a whip and round as a dumpling, and 
scarcely a day went by when she didnt get invited to a party 
weekend at one of the nearby mens schools. But Blossom ne\ er 
accepted. She did not have the rail fare; she did not have the 
clothes. Weekend after weekend, while her classmates went 
frolicking, Blossom sat alone, saved from utter despair only by 
her pack of Marlboro, for even an exchequer as slim as Blos
soms can afford the joys of Marlborojoys far beyond their 
paltry price: rich, mellow tobaccos, lovingly cured and care
fully packed; a new improved filter that works like a charm. 
Croesus himself could not buy a better cigarette!
However, Marlboros most passionate admirersamong 
whose number I am paid to count myself  would not claim 
that.Marlboro can entirely replace love and romance, and Blos
som grew steadily moroser.
Tech Trains
For Penn-Ohios
The Tartan swimming team un<ler Coach Claude Sofield are pre
paring for the Penn-Ohio meet to 
be held this coming weekend at 
Grove City.
f Tech finished the season with a 
7-3 record, winning the last seven 
in a row and are hopeful to re
peat as champions in this meet.
Hopeful Winners 
The Skibos are lacking depth 
but have several hopeful winners 
in each of the various events. 
Tom Vanderslam is favored to 
win both the 220 and 440 yard 
events, while Pat Crecine should 
show'well in the 60 and 100 yard 
<&, events.
Other Tech hopefuls are Ross 
Engleman in the 220 and 440, 
Fred Shirm in the 60 and Dick 
Line in the butterfly. Myro Dent 
should also do well in diving.
Techs big men must come 
through to win due to the lack of 
depth, but we are hopeful that 
they will to repeat as champions 
in this all important meet.
Printers, Obelisks, Sigma Nu, DU 
Vie For Bowling Championship
The four favorites for the two urday, Printing Management, led
SAES were first in their league, 
with the Grand Slams coming in 
second. It also meant that it will 
be possible for the bridge season 
to end within the next month.
Foul-shooting, co-rec badmin
ton, chess, rifle team practice, and 
wrestling practice are now in 
progress. Foul-shooting ends to
morrow while the wrestling and 
rifle tournaments will cease next 
week.
bowling leagues came in either 
first or second in their leagues.
However, the best performance 
of the year came from a member 
of a third place team. Bob Reber, 
SAE, two weeks ago, bowled three 
200 games in SAEs match with 
Sigma Nu. His total was 639 for 
the day.
Playoffs
Going into the playoffs this Satby Dave Harvey and first in the 
Strikes League, will meet Si^ma 
Nu, runners-up of the ottier 
league and led by Jim Swisher. 
This should be the feature match 
of the year because the schools 
two top bowlers will compete 
against each other. Either Dave or 
Jim should get the MVP award 
depending on which takes his 
team the farthest.
Interested in 
having your typing 
done for you? 
WE. 1-2271
On Campus MaxShulman
(By the A xtthor of Rally Round the Fiaq, Boy*i 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek.)

---------------------------------------------------

'UM..................
/V.......... JB
Cjreeh
Delta Delta Delta Third Place Sorority
Thra race i-rarermry
3
Greek Sing Awards
Pictured above are the Greek Sing and Swing co-chairmen and 
the directors of the winning Sing teams. left to right, they are: FranK 
Booth, Sigma Nu: Jim DeBlasis, Beta Theta Pi; Vic Hill, ATO; Marge 
Warner and Jack Koose; Greta Gilmartin, DG; Fran Bebic, Tri-Delt: 
and Barb Shannon, Chi Omega. (Photographs on this page are by 
Philbrick and Weinhold.)Alpha Tau Omega First Place Fraternity
inneriSina Wi
Beta ThetaSecond Place Fraternity
^qaChi Omega Second Place Sorority

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Mareh 4, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPife 9
Tennis, Founded 
In 1873, Has 
Colorful History
Tennis: its the game in which 
love means nothing, form every
thing, and lace can bring you fameIts also the sport of the staggering 
statistic, e. g. 100 games were once 
pj f ed in the span of a four hour 
singes match!
But no statistician could tabulate 
the countless cracks and contro
versies that tennis has engendered 
in its long, long lifetime. An esti
mated eight million Americans 
play the game today.
Gussie Morans fight for the 
right to wear frills was only one 
episode in a fifty-year-old hassle 
about what constitutes proper tenni^ habiliments. Less sensational 
but equally lively is the debate 
about whether professional stars 
should be allowed to play amateur 
champions for the good of the 
.gameand its gate receipts.
Some have even discussed the 
contribution of tennis to domestic 
bliss! One former Davis Cup play
er was quoted as saying that mix
ed doubles cause conjugal squab
bles. (However, we know several 
hi^pily married tennis teams 
thtc say the same thing about 
bridge.) One fact, however, is sta
tistically indisputable: more people 
meet their future mates at tennis 
than at any other game. (Who says 
love denotes a failure to score?)
You can even get an argument 
going about the name and ancestry 
of this ancient sport. Some histor
ians say that similar games were 
played in ancient Greece; others 
trage jts lineage only as far back 
as'aie Middle Ages. An early ver
sion was supposedly played in a 
medieval Egyptian eity called ten
nis. But some experts derive the 
name of the game from the French 
exclamation Tenez! (Roughly 
translatabl as play ball!)
As with many another good 
thing, tennis was originally mo
nopolized by bluebloods. Their 
patrician pastime was a compli
cated affair, played on a long, narrdC* high-walled court. Players 
could inconvenience their oppo
nents by bouncing the ball off 
walls and 'ceiling; extra points 
were scored by hitting the ball 
through one of the numerous holes 
in the wall. This whimsical game
Get WILDR00T 
0REAM-OIL Charlie!
OLLB 6F CH6YW N. Y. say: Theres no 
greece, just natural good grooming!
BBT Just a Httl bit 
H of Wildroot f . **
I and...WOW!
76 days only $050
FRANCE SWITZERLAND 
AUSTRIA GERMANY 
ITALV HOLLAND
ndudei round-trip trans-Atlantic pas age by student hip, clean andcomfortable hotels, 3 meals dally, iihtseeing, excursions, etc.
Write jor literature describing aur complete program el student travel toEurope.
U.S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOC.EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL, INC.
701 Seventh AvenueNew fork 36, N.V. JUdson 6-2247 A non-profit corporation serving U.S. student from coast-te-coast. A
hal a number of royal fans. Louis 
XIV often doffed his high heels to 
scamper around the court. The 
hefty Henry VIII was an unlikely 
but enthusiastic player who built 
the first modern-style tennis court 
in 1530.
The game in its present form 
was devised by Enblishman Walter 
Wingfield in 1873, and imported 
into the United States from Ber
muda by American tourist Mary 
Outerbridge. Until the time of 
World War I, American tennis was 
a society sport, regarded by the 
many as the sissified pastime of 
the wealthy few.
Then red-headed Maurice Mc
Laughlin, the California Comet, 
dispelled this notion with his pow
erhouse play. Big Bill Tilden, 
long, lean and legendary, further 
popularized the sport. Since then, 
a sucession of homegrown stars has 
kept American tennis fans swivel
ling their necks and swinging their 
raekets.
The biggest game and the most 
potent drawing power of recent 
years belong to Pancho Gonzales, 
another California product. En
tirely, self-taught, Gonzales won 
his first Forest Hills championship 
in his second season of play on 
grass courts. His fast ball has 
been clocked at a reckless 112 
m. p. b. Is Pancho the fastest man 
ever seen on the courts, as some 
of his admirers claim? Not quite, 
say researchers at Spauldings 
Tennis Library. According to the
Spaulding files, former U. S. Davis 
Cupper Lester Stofen whammed 
one at 131 m. p. h. in 1935.
Few tennis arguments are this 
easily settled. Ladies costumes 
have been a persistent wrangle 
ever since that first unsung heroine 
who dared to appear on the courts 
without her hat, along about 1900. 
In 1905, U. S. Womens Champ 
May Sutton threw the tennis world 
into a tizzy by rolling up her 
sleeves at a Wimbledon match. 
Soon theyll wear just shorts and 
a pretty sweater! predicted the 
irate Miss Sutton. Sure enough, 
shorts were pioneered at Wimble
don some years years later by the 
great Alice Marbleshocking the 
royal family. Gussie Morans lin
gerie is legendary by now, but the 
battle has only begun. At Wimble
don this year, Karol Fagera of 
Florida wore gold lame panties 
and told reporters they could call 
he The Golden Goddess. But the 
Wimbledon Committee on Small 
Clothes (yes, there is such a body, 
if youll pardon the pun) mare 
Miss Fagera strike her colors and 
hoist the white flag.
Some of the worlds best-known 
tennis players, have never won a 
cup. The late, legendary King 
Gustave V of Sweden swung a 
mean racket well into his eighties. 
(He was cut off in his prime a 
few years ago at the age of 92). 
Many Hollywood actors and ac
tresses keep their lucrative figures
by playing tennis. Perhaps the 
most unusual claim made for ten
nis is that of Bishop Fulton Sheen, 
who says that a brisk game lowers 
his famous voice by a couple of 
registers!
Less renowned but more nu
merous, the ordinary tennis fans 
are playing the game as never be
fore. Many communities provide 
lessons for would-be players; tour
nament prizes and frequently the 
teaching services of a tennis pro 
are often donated by local Spauld
ing dealers. In New York, top ex
players Frank Shields organized 
tennis clinics for the New York 
Boys Club, which now boasts over 
8000 racket-swinging members. 
Thanks to these efforts, the boy in 
the street is now often on the ten
nis court, where be plays pretty 
well.
. Actual changes in the rules are 
few the court is marked off half as 
wide as the usual single court, and
the net may be lowered a maxi
mum of four inches from its con
ventional height. The ball must 
bounce once before being return
ed. To eliminate running, the ball 
must be hit into the back court 
after the serve.
What lures old ana young onto 
the courts? What motivates people 
to pay admission for the privilege 
of keeping necks and heads in con
stant motion? Because, says one 
expert, tennis calls for skill and 
endurance in the most provoca
tive and primitive sports situation 
of allone man against another, 
or two gainst two. Waxing more 
romantic, another writer cal lit a 
hero, or at most a pair of friends 
or lovers, against the world. Wondef if he met his mate on the ten
nis court.
EARN YOUR MASTERS DEGREE
AND PREPARE FOR AN
EXECUTIVE CAREER IN RETAILING
Comprehensive nin-month program for eoBege %radates ; emphasis on executive direction in major tores 
dove-tailed with classroom work. Total pay for tore 
work {50. Co-ed. Seholarshipe. Selective job place
ment before graduation. G. I. approved. Next lass, 
August 31, 1969. Apply now. Write for BwHetin C.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF RETAILING 
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH PMhb^ti. t3. r*
MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, CHEMICAL ENGINEERS-AND CHEMISTS: 
BEA
IN A SMALLER POND AT HAGAN CHEMICALS & CONTROLS, INC.
Small pond? Small enough that you wont be a platoonsystem trainee, or a number on a king-size roster. We're 
looking for just 20 qualified graduates this year.
Yet, at Hagan, youll be part of- a company big 
enough to number among our thousands of customers: 
98 of the 100 largest industrial firms in America; 40 
of the 50 largest utilities; and thousands of other 
industrial, municipal and household customers.
WHAT DOES HAGAN MAKE AND DO?
Controls and Instrumentation. We design, manufac
ture and sell automatic control and instrumentation 
systems for use in power plants, steel mills, aeronautical 
testing facilities, and in many basic process control 
applicationsincluding electronic instrumentation.
Industrial Water Service. Our Hall Service Engi
neers help thousands of industrial plants prevent costly 
water troubles, by on-the-job consultation and service 
for every type of industrial water problemfrom pro
curement to disposal.
Calgon and Hagan Chemicals. Calgon phosphate 
compounds, and Calgonite detergentsincluding popu
lar household versions of eachare among the many 
chemicals we process and sell for water treatment in util
ity, industrial, Ynunicipal and household water systems.
HOW WE TRAIN ENGINEERS AND CHEMISTS AT HAGAN
Mechanical and lectrical engineers, for our Me
chanical Division, receive six months training, including: 
laboratory work; classroom instruction; on-the-job training with a Field Engineer; and rotation in various 
departments. Then, assignment as a Field Service 
Engineerwhere possible in a territory of your choice.
Chemical engineers and chemists, for our Hall and 
Calgon Divisions, receive six months training, including: 
classroom work; on-the-job training with a Field Engi
neer, and rotation in various departments. Then assign
ment to a District Officewhere possible in a territory ef your choice.
Whats ahead for you? Hagan is growing fast. Field 
Service Engineers and Chemists have excellent oppor
tunities for positions in Sales Engineering, or administrative work.
For specific details on type of work, travel, benefits, 
etc., make an appointment through your College Place
ment Officer to learn about the opportunities for you at 
Hagan. Remember, you start as one of a select team of only 20 graduates.
HAGAN CHEMICALS & CONTROLS, INC.
Hagan Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pennsylvania 
Divisions: Calgon Company, Hall Laboratories
Hagan personnel officer will be Interviewing 
on the date ehown below. See your placement 
officer for Interview time.
Monday, April 6
'* - *  I  A * i .i * i

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre !CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, March 4, 1959
Mied
Khemical
A DOOR IS OPEN AT ALLIED CHEMICAL
Youll want to note the date below,,Our interviewer will be on your 
campus then, ready to answer your questions about a career in the 
chemical industry ... and to point out the advantages of pursuing 
that career at Allied.
Youll find it worth your while to get the facts about a company that?has twelve research laboratories and development centers, over 
one hundred plants, and a nationwide network of sales offices. Its 
worth learning all you can about a company that makes over three 
thousand different products-chemicals, plastics, fiberswith new 
ones coming along every year.
Come prepared to ask our interviewer what you want to know: What 
kinds of jobs? Which products? What opportunities for advance
ment? Which location?
FOR THE CAREER FACTS YOU NEED
SIGN UP NOW FOR AN INTERVIEW!
BASIC TO 
AMERICAS 
PROGRESS
DIVISIONS: BARRETT  GENERAL CHEMICAL  NATIONAL ANILINE . NITROGEN 
PLASTICS ANO COAL CHEMICALS  SEMET SOLVAY  SOLVAY PROCE8S * INTERNATIONAL
ALLIED CHEMICAL CAMPUS INTERVIEWS ....
A future for: Chemists, Chemistry Majors, Engineers (Chemical, Mechanical, Electrical) March 10
Congress May Revise 
Its Monetary Setup
Student Congress treasurer, Ed Choby, submitted a mo
tion at last Wednesdays meeting which would later alter 
the monetary system used by Congress. The motion, which 
was passed, read:
Be it moved that the following^-----------------------------------------------------
procedure be set up for the finan
cial transactions of the stuclent 
government:
1. With the exception of the 
treasurer of the regular commit
tees of Student Congress, only the 
treasurer and the chairman of 
Student Congress shall be auth
orized to approve the payment of 
bills.
2. Every committee treasurer 
must keep a record of income and 
expense, and must submit a bud
get by November 1 of each year, 
except the Spring Carnival Com
mittee which shall be allowed to 
have their budget in by February 
28.
3. Budgeted committees must 
submit a report form every other 
month. Receipts for purchases or 
itemized lists of the pifchases, 
totaling the amount spent must 
be attached to the report form. 
The first report, which, because 
of the circumstances, may con
tain only income and expense and 
budgeted expenditure for the re
mainder of the year.
4. At the end of the year, each 
committee treasurer shall submit 
a written report, covering his 
duties for the year. He and the 
treasurer of student government 
shall go over this report, making
any corrections necessary for 
clearness.
5. The treasurer of the student 
government shall keep a set of 
books for Student Congress, set 
up according to' committees. 
Every item shall be itemized.
6. If any committee fails to ob
serve these regulations, it shall 
cease to the ability to spend j 
money.
These regulations will go into 
effect immediately.
Spring: Carnival
Carol Sooby of the Spring Car
nival Committee announced that 
the dance band for Friday night 
had to be changed. She also said 
that no place had been chosen yet 
for the midway or for plank 
jousting. The committee is look
ing for someone who would be 
interested in working as co-chair
man of the dance committee.
The Finance Committee an
nounced that the Thistle has now 
paid back its debt to Student 
Congress and its account is now 
clear.
Vice-C h a i r m a n Mary Jane 
Stevens announced that commit
tee heads had suggested that 
Nancy Tull act as her assistant. 
M. J. is in the Home Management 
House and will be student teach[ continued on page 12]
$
K J. ReynoldTot Co..Wtnaton-Snlem, tf.O,
More people want Americas 
real cigarette than any 
other brand today. For 10 
straight years, Camel has 
been the top-selling ciga
rette of all. The Camel blend 
of costly tobaccos has never 
been equalled for rich flavor 
and easygoing mildness. 
The best tobacco makes the 
best smoke.
Cast off the fads
and fancy stuff . .
Have a real
I'd walk a mile for a Camel!

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Marth 4, 1958CARNEGIE YAK /ANPage 11
Students Underestimate 
Newspaper Careers
them of its opportunities, they 
will return to the fold.
One problem is the vocational 
guidance material available in 
schools and public libraries. Of 
151 town libraries surveyed, one 
 in new Hampshire gives a roughHigh school and college students are greatly underesti- j idea. Its books on newapaper
mating the career opportunities which exist on the report- work include volumes published
ing and editing staffs of-the nations newspapers. ?Llot
This is a major conclusion of a report by Alvin E. Austin, The Austin report says even
O. D,9'BeY6BW famous father, says: 
"Makes your hair look real George!
ft
who took a years leave from his^ 
post as head of North Dakota Uni
versity journalism department to 
investigate news staff recruitment 
problemsa n d solutionsacross 
the nation. His study was spon
sored by Dow Jones & Co., pub
lisher of The Wall Street Jour
nal, and by the Dow Jones Foun
dation.
One of his surveys, of 135 
large and small daily papers, 
disclosed that over 67% con
sider shortage of new man
power to be one of their lead
ing problems. Pay for beginning 
reporters ju6t out of college is 
rising rather rapidly; it now 
averages around $73 weekly and 
ranges above $100. Slightly 
more than half the newspapers 
surveyed are paying some top 
experienced news men more 
than $10,000 annually.
Clearly, newspaper salaries 
have been improving faster than 
information about the gains has 
been getting around, declares the 
Austin report. It blames the ma
jority of newspapers themselves 
for a widespread failure to inform 
young people of the opportunities 
on news staffs. And it emphasizes 
that on good newspapers these re
wards include intangibles of the 
profession: excitement, integrity, 
prestige  a way of life.
To the extent that journalists 
have succeeded in tearing down 
the traditional stereotype of the 
hard-drinking, bullet-dodging star 
reporter (still purveyed by movies 
and television) they seem to have 
left only the wrong impression 
that newspapering is a dull and 
routine job, says the Austin re
port.
Attracting bright young minds 
*is the newspaper industrys 
problem; many individual 
papers are tackling it with 
imagination and vigor, it adds. 
But it is also a problem of im
portance to the whole American 
society. Newspapers always 
have needed the best minds 
available to perform their vital 
task of keeping the public in
formed. Never has this been 
truer than now, a time for sci
entific, social and economic 
breakthroughs.
The greatest pool of talent for 
newspaper staffs of the future is 
to be found today on college and 
school papers, the study con
cludes. It suggests most student 
editors would welcome volunteer 
professional advice on putting out 
their publications, and that asso
ciation with the pros could lead 
many young people to chose a 
journalistic career.
Newspapers confront a mild di
lemma, Professor Austin notes, 
because their hiring concentrates 
on smart college studentsbut 
impressions about careers are
school guidance counselors who
l 2 x try to keep current have in theirpretty well hxed m most young- .. . .j files journalistic career mforma-sters minds several years before | tion that is wrong or, at best, unthey graduate from college. This likely to spark enthusiasm, 
means the papers must capture j Much of it springs from the U. 
imaginations at high school age, I S. department of labor, which has
if not before. : the newspaper business tabbed as
As evidence that newspapers a declining industry, mainly be
have largely failed to do this, ! cause there are fewer dailies and
! weeklies than in the 1920s.
J Largely overlooked, ironically, is
> the fact that the U.S. Department
he shows that staffs of high 
school newspapers (some 30.000 
of them, with $20 million an
nual production costs) have 
been largely abandoned by the 
boy students, just within the 
last few years. He quotes ap
provingly the remark of a pro
fessional newspaperman: High 
schools boys are not convinced 
the profession is one with a fu
ture, and dont want to waste 
time on it. If we can convince
of Commerce lists newspapers 
among growth industries, a rat
ing justified by the big increase in 
totals of employes, payrolls, circu
lations.
Should the young person aim
ing at a news career go to a 
college journalism school? The 
report notes that debate on this 
point still rages among news
paper executives. Of 128 man
aging editors questioned, 91 
would definitely hire journalism 
school graduates ahead of gen
eral college grads; 29 firmly 
favored the latter over the for
mer; just eight had no prefer
ence.
Professor Austin argues that the 
question is perhaps less crucial 
than it might seem, since news
papers agree that most of all they 
want young people with a broad 
liberal education, and this obtain
able either in or out of journalism 
schools. In any case, the papers 
can not currently fill all their 
manpower needs from the jour
nalism schools, whose enrollment 
has dropped more than 30% with
in a decade. Therefore, he con
tends, they must enlarge their re
cruitment from the staffs of col
lege papers on campuses lacking 
formal journalism courses.
More and more newspapers 
have recently initiated their own 
training programs for young 
members of their staffs, the re
port shows. A spot check during 
the course of the Austin study
like baseball teams, could benefit 
from farm systems where 
rookies could be trained and ex
hibit their worth.
The Austin report admits that 
its numerous surveys could not 
compile statistics on some of 
the greatest attractions of a ca
reer on a good newspaper. To 
sample these, the report quotes 
individuals who are in the pro
fession and love it. Here are 
three of them:
No two days are alike. Work is 
stimulating, creative, and every 
situation is different. Boredom is 
impossible! The people themselves 
are exciting and congenial, too. 
Everyone seems to be closely knit 
and working for a common goal. 
I feel as though I belong, and 
often get satisfaction out of the 
idea that at least a few souls in 
our area honestly depend on my 
newsgathering and writing for in
formation on subjects vital to 
them.
(I relish) the opportunity to 
raise hell, poke fun at stuffed
turned up 35 of them in 28 states ! shirts, laugh at the ridiculous ocand the District of Columbia.1 currences, weep at tragedies, and 
Currently, there is a burst of in- be  forever startled by the 
terest in the idea that newspapers, obvious.
IBM invites the 1959 Graduate
with Bachelor's or Masters Degree 
to discuss career opportunities
Contact your college placement office 
for an appointment for campus interviews 
?
Morch 19 and 20
Career opportunitiesIf your degree major is in:
Jwst a littk bit 
f Wildroot 
and... WOW J
 Sales.......................................................... liberal Arts  Business  Accounting
\ * Engineering  MathemoticsS  # Applied Science............................................. Physics Mathematics Engineering
K I Product Development.................................. Physics  Mechanical  Electrical 
 Engineering Physics  Mothematics
Manufacturing............................................... Industrial Electrical  MechonicalW v *IIP  Mathematics  Physics
 Research..................................................... Physics  Mechonical 
 Engineering Physks  Mathematics
k  :-.V 
W y
f i j Some facts about IBMlip-'|p IBMs phenomenal growth offers unlimited professional opportunities to
* highly qualified graduates. Company policies lay a firm groundwork
for stimulating and rewarding careers in the areas listed above. At IBM, 
you will find respect for the individual.. . small-team operations .. . 
early recognition of merit. . . good financial reward ... outstanding 
company-paid benefits . . . and many educational and training programs.
IBMs laboratories and manufacturing facilities are located in Endicott,
Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, Yorktown, N.Y.; Burlington, Vt.;
San Jose, Calif.; Lexington, Ky.; and Rochester, Minn. Sales and service 
offices are located in 198 principal cities throughout the United States.
If you cannot attend the interviews, write or call the manager 
of the nearest IBM office:
IBM Corp.
421 7th Avenue 
Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
IBM
INTERNATIONAL 
BUSINESS MACHINES 
CORPORATION
DATA PROCESSING  ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS  MILITARY PRODUCTS 
SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS  SUPPLIES  TIME EQUIPMENT

---------------------------------------------------

P*ge ItVIiOthCt TARTANWednesday. March 4, 195*
Do you base your choice of yes. . NO
a cigarette on what people 
tell you rather than doing 
your own thinking?
?
8. Are you normally reluctant to go I I I I
on a blind date? veS |___I NOI___I
7. If you met somebody with a beard, v_s I I NQI I
would you tend to consider him off- I__I I___I ^
beat and treat him with reserve?
?
Given the choice, would you prefer 
having an apartment of your own to 
living at home with your parents?
YES? noD
?erwanoD *
?nves NOv0 -?
YES ? NO
The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows 
ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S 
FILTER...A SMOKING MANS TASTE!
Do You Think for Yourself ?
Drama, 62
from a noble and wealthy family 
and inherited the titles of Count. 
At 16 he entered the University 
of Kazan but left in 1844 without 
a degree. In 1851 he went with 
his brother to the Caucusus 
where he saw active duty. Tol
stoy died in 1910 at a railway 
station after having fled from an
unhappy domestic background $$ 
take refuge in a monastery.
Mr. Trainor, who joined the 
Tech English department in 1956^ 
received his Bachelor of Art 
Degree from Duquesne University 
and was awarded his Master* 
Degi-ee at Pennsylvania Stata 
University.
Congtressfcontinued from page 10] 
Ing this semester and feels that 
she may not have time to do all 
her duties as vice-chairman. 
Committee heads suggestion was 
approved, and Nancy Tull is the 
assistant vice-chairman of Stu
dent Congress.
The Spring Carnival Commit
tees budget of $6,520 was ap
proved.
Nancy Tull of the Library 
Committee announced that her 
committee will be meeting some 
time this week to discuss the 
problem of illegal removal of libarary books at Tech. Over the 
semester vacation, it was discov
ered that a lot of this was going 
on, and the committee will in
vestigate possible penalties for 
this offense.
The next committee heads 
meeting will be held on March 3. 
The next Student Congress meet
ing will be on March 10.
Assembly/
[continued from page 1] 
crisis of his life, and What Then 
Must We Do?; a study of econo
mic conditions.
Tolstoy became convinced that 
he held the key to a golden age 
of man and looked upon himself 
as a world savior. Being extreme
ly perceptive to man. Tolstoy, 
also believed in mans inherent 
good.
Born in 1828, Tolstoy came
Pledgles
Icontinued from page 1] 
Alice Dieckhaus, Bonnie Grove, 
Julie Martin. Bonnie McIntosh, 
Margie Morgan, Jane Potter, Kay 
Verwohlt, Lois Wolf.
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Susie
Bradford. Marcia Bridge, Jean 
Couchman, Susan Ellis, Sally Ganong, Sue Hart, Lana Kubasak, 
Carol Theophilus, Molly Whitten, 
Connie Wright, Nancy Young.
Sigma Kappa: Leslie Asplundh, 
Ingrid Berglund: Ellen Brady,
Jan Geisler, Joyce Graff, Lynne 
Gregor. Becky Hershorin.
Letter
Ingercoll-Rand
uoill interview
fcontinued from page 4] 
The actual business of judging 
is getting much more fair but still 
has to be improved. The judges 
this year were mostly very com
petent. This is something, how
ever, which does not reveal itself 
until after the judging sheets are 
in. But after several years we 
should have compiled a list of 
most capable judges. The judging 
sheets themselves were a great 
improvement over the previous 
but still need work in minor 
points. With the co-operation of 
the groups and directors our 
judging system can be made to 
serve everyone fairly and to 
stimulate better music.
More interest and more work 
next year, however, can create a 
more enjoyable and more truly 
musical evejt.
Jim Willard
Hweers
o
Inersoll-Ranctoffers attractive 
opportunities in c/esi$nt manufacture 
and safes of pumas, compressors, engines, 
btowers, vacuum equipment, power took.
1. When you feel that certain fads are 
foolish do you talk against them?
2. Do gadgets such as new cigarette 
lighters often intrigue you so you 
want to take them apart?
6. When arriving late for a party, are 
you inclined to join a group of close 
friends rather than attempting to 
strike up new acquaintances?
3. Do you think that political candidates yEsJ I B6t
should write their own speeches I-1 I------- 
instead of using a ghost writer?
You'll notice that men and women who 
think for themselves usually smoke 
VICEROY. Their reason? Theyve made a 
thinking choice. They know what they want 
in a filter cigarette. They know that 
VICEROY gives it to them! A thinking 
mans filter and a smoking mans taste!
*If you have answered  YES to three out 
of the first four questions and NO to four 
out of the last five . . . you really think for
yourselff C 1959. Brown * Williamson Tobacco Corp.,
5. Do you prefer a salesman who is 
anxious to make a quick sale to one 
who will patiently answer all your 
questions about the product?
9.
Familiar pack or crush 
proof 
box.
On March 19, 1959
a UCRl staff member will be on campus 
to answer your questions about employment 
opportunities at the Laboratory.
Our scientists and engineers, with outstanding 
achievements in the field of nuclear research, are 
currently at work on diversified projects such as:
 Nuclear devices
 Basic particle physics
 Nuclear powered ramjet propulsion systems
 Controlled thermonuclear reactions 
{now unclassified)
 Engineering and scientific application of nuclear 
explosives to mining, excavations, and power
The finest facilities, and encouragement to exercis 
creative thinking and imagination, are offered quali
fied graduates interested in research careers.
Call your placement office for an appointment.
university of
CAIIFORNIA RADIATION IASORATORV
Brk*lr 9n Ltyfmor*, California
