Read About 
Exciting 
IM Basketball Race 
On Page 5
Tartan's Girl Friday 
Makes Evaluation 
Of Her 
Inquiring Reporter 
See Page 3
VOL. 44No. 16PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1951
IA Graduate School 
In Research Projects
Administrative, Accounting Studies
Made Possible By Recent Grants
Carnegie Techs graduate school of industrial administration, al
though less than two years old, is already deep in significant research 
for improvement of administrative techniques in business and in
dustry. ?----------------------------------------------------
Currently, the graduate school
is working on two research proj
ects started recently under grants 
from the United States Air Force 
and the Controllership Foundation, 
research branch of the Controllers 
Institute of America.
Accounting: Study
A grant of 90 thousand dollars 
has been received from the Air 
Force for a three-year study of 
administrative planning, schedul
ing, and control within individual 
firms. A second grant of 20 thou
sand dollars has been given by 
the Controllership I oundation for 
an 18-month study of centraliza
tion vs. decentralization of ac
counting and control _functions in 
large and meduin-slzed com
panies.
The new Air Force project is 
aimed at increasing the speed, 
flexibility, and reliability of mak
ing defense production plans and 
of scheduling and controlling de
fense production.
Study Industries
The Controllership project, 
which will include an analysis of 
several major industrial concerns 
to determine the most effective 
methods of handling accounting 
and control functions within the 
controllers department, will be 
administered by Dr. Herbert A. 
Simon, professor and head of Car
negies undergraduate industrial 
management department.
Early Thistle 
This Year!
Novel Cover Planned; 
Delivery Near May 25
According to Pete West, editor 
of the 1951 Thistle, this years 
book will be one of the best ever 
put out at Carnegie.
The rest of the editorial board 
consists of Dolly Mitchell, Suzie 
Richards, and Pat Kelley, assistant 
editors; Bob Lynch, business man
ager; Dan Byers, managing edi
tor; Ray Neuman, photography ed
itor; Ruth Cray, fraternities editor; 
Ivan Sturman, advertising mana
ger; Paul Grafius, art editor; Bob 
Levy, layout editor, and Justin 
Davidson, sports editor.
A special feature of this years 
book, which will have two colors 
other than black predominating, 
will be a section on the campus 
today and 50 years ago. Another 
feature will be the Thistle Queen 
and Court, whose identity will be 
withheld until publication.
Cincinnati Lithographing Com
pany will receive the book about 
March 1. It should be returned to 
Pittsburgh shortly after Spring 
Carnival and released to subscrib
ers by May 25.
No more subscriptions will be 
taken this year in spite of the fact 
that the subscription list has drop
ped from 1750 to 1450, but ap
proximately 50 books will be on sale for non-subscribers in May.
Enrollment 
Suffers Drop; 
Draft Blamed
Additional students for the 
spring semester number 80 per
sons, or about 14% of the number 
of freshmen in September. But on 
che other side of the enrollment 
ledger, 178 of those eligible had 
not returned for this semester as 
of last Friday.
Unless a violent burst of late 
registrants comes in, the school 
still loses approximately 100 stu
dents. However, because of the ad
dition of the difficulties in the in
ternational situation to the usual 
troubles that beset students be
tween semesters, it was thought a 
higher drop might occur.
Military Ball March 3rd, 
Brad Hunt On Bandstand; 
Scabbard And Blade Calls
Honorary Colonel 
Will Be Named 
At ROTC Formal
Sponsored by Scabbard and 
Blade, the annual Military Ball 
will be held in the gym on Sat
urday evening, March 3, from 9 
to 12. Music for the Ball, a strictly 
formal affair, will be provided by 
Brad Hunt and his orchestra.
Originally scheduled for Decem
ber 2, the Ball was postponed be
cause of the record snowfall over 
Thanksgiving vacation.- As be
fore, men may wear tuxedos or 
military uniforms. No flowers 
will be permitted.
Colonel Chosen
A feature of the evening will 
be the presentation of the honor
ary colonel and two lieutenant 
colonels chosen by the ROTC 
members. These honorary officers 
have been elected from fifteen 
candidates from Morewood Gar
dens, Citcom, and the seven so
rorities. Possibilities for the com
missions include Nancy Davis, 
Barbara White, Mary Cauffield,
m
Silence Period Is 
Extended By Panhel
24 Hour Silence Begins Next Sunday Night;
Silence99 Interpreted As Just Passing Hello
The silence period between sorority women ^ind rushees has been 
extended by Pan-Hellenic Council to include the dinner hours. Strict 
silence will be enforced between the hours of 5:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
during the party period. '
A 24-hour silence will begin 
10 p.m. Sunday night and will last 
until 5:00 p.m. February 27. Si
lence is interpreted as meaning no 
communication, direct or indirect 
by note, word, or telephone with 
the exeception of a hello in 
passing.
In the midst of spring rushing 
parties, all rushees are requested 
to pay particular attention to cer
tain important times and dates.
Each rushee must file a ballot 
in the Dean of Womens office by 
10:30 a.m. Monday, February 26. 
Anyone who does not submit her 
ballot of preference by that time 
will not be accepted until the next 
rushing season. It is very import
ant to fill in all three preferences 
on the ballots.
Rushees may pick up their in
vitations after 10:30 a.m. Tues
day, February 27, and must an
swer with written acceptances or 
regrets by 4:30 p.m. that same 
day.
Films Arts
Due to transportation diffi
culties, the first film of the 
Film Arts Society, The Cab
inet of Dr. Caligari, schedul
ed for February 14 will be 
shown tomorrow. Pot O 
Gold was shown. In this way 
a ninth film was added to the 
schedule which formerly had 
eight programs. The remain
ing schedule will remain un
changed.
Architecture 
Students Win 
Design Contest
Rust Engineering Co, 
Presents Cash Prizes 
To Gassnen, Poison
The Rust Engineering Company 
awarded cash prizes to two Archi
tecture students for exceptional 
handling of problems involved in 
designing modern plants for pro
ducing bricks. Francis P. Gassnen 
was presented a check for $100 and 
William L. Poison was given $50 
by Murray Rust, Jr., president of 
the company, in the fourth annual 
Rust Architectural Awards Proj
ect.
Both winning designs were in
tegrated brick plants capable of 
producing 50,000 common bricks 
per day. Research for the projects 
took the students to the three local 
brick producers for information.
The awards project is open each 
years to fourth year C1T archi
tects. Last year awards were made 
for solutions involved in design
ing modern plants to produce win
dow glass.
Brad Hunt
At Military Ball
Joy Ostergaard, Marion Fischman, 
Shirley Williams, Charlotte Merriman, Janet Fitzsimmons, Jo Ann 
Rose, and iKtty Ditty.
Tickets On Sale
Tickets for the dance, costing 
$2.50 per couple, will go on sale in 
Skibo today. They may also be 
purchased from any ROTC mem
ber. Scabbard and Blade plans to
Tutoring
Eliminate your troubles be
fore they be?in. Take advan
tage of the early start in Tau 
Beta Pis tutoring this semes
ter.
The schedule can be found 
on the last page. If you desire 
some particular course to be 
added to this schedule, please 
contact Fritz Friedlander, HA. 
1-6449.
ROTC Honorary 
Taps 23 Juniors 
For Membership
Company G, sixth regiment of 
the national society of Scabbard 
and Blade, has called 23 men of 
the Junior Class as pledges. Mem
bers are chosen from outstanding 
cadet officers of the ROTC.
The pledges are: Edward Yorkmson, Donald Schumacher, Don
ald Anderson, Thomas Astle,, 
Harry Ceranowicz, Robert Pow
er, Robert Becker, Raymond Neu
man, Carl Zorowski, William 
Hudson, Alfred Bader, .Donald 
Gustafson, Ronald Murphy, Robert 
Hess, Joseph McElhaney, John 
Vasil, Enoch Frankhouser, Elmer 
Babyak, Donald Moss, Omar Craig, 
Robert Curhan, Samuel Cerni, and 
Thomas Birch.
The local chapter sponsors the 
intramural rifle matches, ROTC 
drill awards, and the Military Ball, 
which is scheduled March 3 at 
CIT gym.
Carnegie Grad 
To Receive 
Rotary Award
Mrs. Julia Weertman, was nam
ed one of the 89 outstanding grad
uate students to receive the Rotary 
Foundation Fellowship for over
seas study in 1951-52. Awards 
were made to students from 33 
countries at an international meet
ing in Chicago. The Rotary club of 
Pittsburgh sponsored by Mrs 
Weertman for the fellowship 
which she will use to study physics 
in Europe.
Mrs. Weertman was the first 
woman to be admitted to the En
gineering and Science School at 
CIT and was awarded an assistant 
research physicist position for 
work, toward an advanced degree. 
She received the Bachelor of Sci
ence degree in 1946, Masters in 
1947, and expects to receive the 
Doctor of Science in June.
First in the graduating class of 
the College of Engineering and 
Science, Mrs. Weertman was ed
itor of the Technical in her senior 
year. She was elected to Mortar 
Board, Phi Kappa Phi, Tau Beta 
Pi, Sigma Xi, Pi Mu Epsilon, and 
a member of Sigma Kappa, Amer
ican Physical Society, and the 
Pittsburgh Physical Society.
Debate Team 
Meets Defeat 
At T ournament
State and Westminster 
Eliminate Carnegie
Carnegies varsity debaters suf
fered their first major setback at 
the W&J annual cup tournament 
last Friday and Saturday. The 
Tartan speakers got off to a good 
start Friday by winning decisions 
over Duquesne, Pitt, and West
minster, while dropping one to 
Penn State. Thus by the end of 
the first day, Tech and Penn State, 
who had each lost decisions, were 
the major contenders for the cov
eted James David Moffat debate 
trophy.
Carnegie Tech dropped from the 
running the Second day when the 
affirmative and negative teams 
lost their debates. The negative 
team of Shirlee Ploeger and Neil 
Johnson lost to Penn State by the 
close decision of 86 to 83, while 
Joel Readio and Emerson Pugh, 
Carnegies affirmative team, were 
defated by Westminster, 90 to 87.
Penn Stte defeated Seton Hill 
in the finals to become tourna
ment winners for the third straight 
year, and thus become permanent 
possessors of the Moffat trophy.
Summer Jobs!
Engineering and Science 
'juniors who are interested in 
summer work experience with 
industrial organizations have 
been asked to stop in the office 
of the Dean of Students to fill 
out application blanks. Repre
sentatives from several indus
tries have indicated an Inter
est in employing engineering 
juniors for the summer. Inter
views will be held through 
the enployment office but ap
plications must be filed be
forehand in the Deans of
fice.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2TA4WANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1951
Editorials
Whos To Blame?
What is the cause for the lack of student interest in 
campus activities? Lately, this question has come up in
creasingly in almost all of Carnegies student organizations 
and societies, particularly with regard to the small number 
of sophomores and freshmen who seem willing to devote 
some of their time to activities outside the scope of their 
regular school work.
In most cases, thetfilame can be equally divided among the 
student, the organization, and external circumstances. We cannot 
say that students are just not interested or that they are a 
bunch of bookworms"; these are more the effects of the situa
tion than the causes.
Many students do not realize until too late that there is 
more to a college education than calculus and shorthand. 
By actively engaging in extercurricular activities, the stu
dent learns to work with others, to respect the ideas and 
opinions of those who differ with him. arjd to solve prob
lems in human relations and organization which never occur 
during regular school hours. Potential employers recognize 
the valuable experience to be gained from membership in 
campus activities and place a great deal of emphasis on this 
phase of college achievement when they select men for their 
organizations.
If a student fails to recognize the value of campus activi
ties while it is still early in his college career, it is rarely 
that any transformation will take place later. In a few in
stances yes, but in many cases the individual sees those of 
his classmates who did become interested earlier rising to 
positions of responsibility within the various organizations, 
and he decides that it will be of little value to him to join 
since he couldnt go very far.
But much of the criticism should be directed toward the 
organizations themselves. Too often, urgent requests are made 
for members, the hopefuls appear, and then they completely ig
nored because nobody takes the time or effort to make them use
ful and necessary members of the group. After a few months of 
inactivity the new members soon lose all interest and either quit 
or become members in name only. This leads to another evil, 
for the select group which does all the work of the organization 
has a tendency to become clichish and to attempt to maintain 
control of the activity by one or another of the campus factions. 
Politics rears its ugly head, and so student interest in the or
ganization is reduced even further.
A vicious circle has developed in many societies and 
activities, for their lack of members has forced them to re
strict their programs and to accomplish very little. Potential 
new members, seeing this inactivity, decide that the organi
zation is a do-nothing group and that there would be little 
sense in joining. What is needed, of course, is good leader
ship within the organization, but when politics picks the 
president, and not ability, the organization is apt to suffer.
There are, in addition, conditions external to the activi
ties which restrict interest. The work load is heavynot 
only for the average studetn but also for the superior student 
who carries extra units. Carnegie has a large percentage of 
commuters, and those activities which hold their functions 
at night consequently suffer. It is also doubtful whether a 
commuter student whose classes are over at 11:30 will wait 
till 4:30 to attend a meeting or social affair. Then too, the 
dues in some honoraries are so high as to discourage many 
potential members.
What is needed is (1) increased awareness on the part of 
students of benefits to be gained from activities, and (2) 
an examination on the part of many organizations of their 
training of new members and of the condition of the or
ganization itself. Easy words to say, but a little harder to 
put into action.
WAKE UP!Think It Over
By Richard A. Ahlstrom
Have you ever notieed that In
dustries Hall is a bit more strange 
than the rest of CITs buildings. 
Who would think that a lot of 
thought and major considerations 
were given to this project before 
it was decided to build this build
ing with the sloping halls.
The first plans submitted by the 
architects envisioned a level floor 
but this, as you will readily real
ize, would have necessitated either 
the digging of a big hole at one 
end or the raising of the other 
end high into the sky. The first 
consideration was given much 
thought but the move was finally 
decided against as the fastest 
shoveler was then engaged in the 
swimming pool project.
Realized Pitt Plan
The second consideration was 
abandoned because the foresighted 
fathers realized that the Pitt Ca
thedral would be built and that 
there wasnt enough rarified air 
for the two towers of learning.
These are the stories that were 
circulated at the time as to the 
reasons for the building of the 
sloping floors. But like all big 
issues the deciding factor wasnt 
as simple. Hours of discussion 
were put in by the building board 
and what finaly was the deciding 
factor was a small gentleman with 
phobias and repressed desires. Of 
such things are great events af
fected.
Lifelong Ambition
This little man was a very big 
man in the Carnegie project. He 
was on the founding board, the
building board, and was even 
slated to remain in an executive 
capacity after the completion of 
the building program. Well, this 
little man realized this and he also 
realized that here was the oppor
tunity to fulfill one of his lifelong 
ambitions.
As a boy he had been carefully 
raised and had therefore never 
been permitted to go coasting 
down the hills with the other lit
tle boys and girls and therefore 
one of his lifelong ambitions had 
been to do this very thing.
Coasted After Hours
The solution sounds simple. All 
he had to do was to go out and 
coast. But that is where the 
phobia set in. He had been reared 
so carefuly that he was afraid of 
the out-of-doors. And here at last 
he realized was the opportunity 
to fulfill ambitions and do a use
ful task at the same time, for 
after work when all the students 
had gone home he could get out 
his little wagon and go coasting 
down the halls.
So it came to pass that there 
was a deadlock in the construc
tion plans, and after days and 
weeks of harassment the little 
man finally won and Industries 
halls for many years after it was 
built found it's rafters ringing to 
the joyous laughter of the little 
man as he rolled merrily down the 
hall.
Sweepstakes Start
But he was not a selfish man 
and that is how the Spring Car[Continued on page 3]
^fTICES: Carnegie Union, 076 rort>es Street. FittsDuign is. raIELEPHONE: SChenJey 1-4557; after hours. MUseum 1-5255: for advertising and
subscriptions. MU 1-7434. MU 1-4076Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, 
ov the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13. Pennsylvania.
....................................................................................................Paul V. Offermanr
Business Manager ..... .....................................................................................Morty H. Baker
Natta*** Edit** ...........................................*........................................................07SPrrMnne! Manager ..................................................-...........................................Ray J. Mangold
News EditorNancy Sitler. Sports EditorFred Lunt. Make-up EditorAl Bader, 
t opr EditorFred Sonnenberg. Feature EditorDolores Mitchell. Assistant Busicm ManagerBud Smith. Advertising ManagerDavid Goldsmith. Circulation 
ManagerAl Seiz Photograph? EditorDick Gilson. Proof EditorJohn Tancili. 
Assistant Sport Fditor Art Christopher
Chief Reporters Siunee Ploegei. Jane Robb. Personnel Assistant Dick Woods. 
ReportersEstefle Herlick, Marilyn Sweeney, Rosemary Serafim. Sport* Staff 
Joan Cummerton, Justin DaMdaon, AI Moore, Larry SummeriU. Art StaffHenry 
Carlsen., Carroll Grant, Ken Ferguson, Duane Quintal, Jerry Weisman. Make-up 
StaffBea Pollack. Dick Kendrick. Proof taffRobert Brown. Feature StaffDick 
Ahlstrom. Harvey Katz. Photography StaffDavid Goldsmith, Martin Snyderman, 
Jim Walker, Headline StagVince Ribas. Copy StaffJeanne Shutrump, Pat Miller. 
( nb ReporterAnn Parker, Julie Cosentino, Jane Dowling, Bill Smith, Bob McQuad 
Dick Durstine. Larry Giavm, Joan Webb. Advertising StaffAnne Philhower, Jerry 
Seiner. Marilyn Seiner. John Stroble. Circalation StaffBarry Innerfield, Don 
Weaver SecretaryEleanor Doniger TypistsJoan Novak, Mildred Thompson, 
Anita Makrauer. &
By Dolly Mitchell
SEX QUESTION . . . Texas State 
College for Women newspaper 
ran this headline: Miss Mary Her
ring, TSCW graduate, has the dis
tinction of being the only football 
coach of her sex in Texas. The 
Associate Collegiate Press editor 
postscripted the headline: Lucky 
for her shes a coach of her own 
sex.
SING TROUBLES ... Jan Waterson, sing leader of Delta Gam
ma sorority, is having troubles try
ing to conduct the group from a 
hospital cot where she is con
valescing from appendicitis.
HAVE I GOT SALT ... If the 
railroad strike is not cleared up 
soon, the boiler plant here will be 
in difficulty. Theres not a drop of 
salt left in Pittsburghand salt is 
vital to the production of heat for 
Carnegie. Any student with a 
spare box or two of salt will help 
the cause of education by donating 
it to the boiler room.
IN THIS CORNER . . . The covet
ed Greek Sigs trophies are on dis
play in the Dean of Mens office. 
This year there are first, second 
and third place cup for both soror
ity and fraternity winners. Any
one who would like to see them is 
welcome to go to the office and 
drool.
SOS . . . Also in the Deans office 
is a rare post card, absolutely undeicpherable. The only words leg
ible are University of Kentucky. 
If there is a handwriting expert 
anywhere on campus, your serv
ices are urgently needed. 
MISSING PERSONS... Then 
theres the story of a confused 
Tech student, Janet Griffiths, who 
dropped Queen Victoria into the 
mailbox one sunny afternoon. Lat
er in the day she discovered that, 
although she still had her letter, 
the copy of Queen Victoria was 
missing. Quickly she dashed off a 
card to the mailman requesting 
that he bring Queen Victoria back 
to More wood.
THE LITTLE MAN . . . Rege Cordic isnt the only person who has 
a following; his friend Omicron al
so can lay claim to one fan. Last 
Thursday morning Harvey Katz, 
a Kappa Sigma pledge, wandered 
into the station looking for Omi
cronand the little man from 
Venus obliged by making a few 
choice comments.
SPRING AGAIN . . . Apparently 
the pledges of Deflta Upsilon are 
eager for spring to roll around. 
Last Friday the boys pranced over 
to Morewood Gardens and danced 
the Maypole much to the amuse
ment of the residents.
ORCHIDS ... A Carnegie student, 
Irene Guest Clawson, was the win
ning contestant on the Welcome 
Aboard Show. As a prize Irene has 
been awarded a thirteen-week 
singing contract on a major net
work program.
RENT A TYPEWRITER
4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR $10
TYPEWRITERS
All Kinds as Low as$2950
AmerUanTypewriierCo. 
11 WoodSf. (ft i_t019
Convenient Parkins
miwrte mv va
Stop It. Tyrone! Tins is madness! Madness
UNIVERSITY
RECREATION
Bowling
AFTERNOON, SAT. & SUN. 
BOWLING
407-409 CRAIG ST.
SC 1-9307

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1951TAWA1VPage 3
Those Sloping Halls
[Continued from page 2]
nival fraternity buggy races 
came into being. The little man #was a great organizer and soon he 
had the races at the Spring Car
nival humming. The second floor 
was the scene of the trial runs 
while the main floor boasted the 
finals. Joyous students ran from 
one floor to the other to watch 
their favorites. But it was soon 
discovered that the stair wells did 
not provide enough spectator space 
and so the yearly event, much to
Headquarters for Fraternity & 
Sorority Supplies
Oakland Hardware
3606 FORBES ST.
MA. 1-0923
the dismay of the little naan, was 
moved to the outside.
Wanton Destruction
This action probably would 
never have occurred, however, if 
it had not been precipitated by 
an accident. One of the specta
tors got so excited because his 
team was winning that he forgot 
himself and fell over the stair rail
ing, denting the concrete below. 
The administration was shocked 
by this wanton destruction of 
school property and insisted upon 
the removal of the races.
There is still another explana
tion for Industries Hall. Some say 
it was built for the birds. This is 
an absolutely false story. The pi
geons and starlings that reside in, 
and fly around, many of the lec
ture halls are definitely unwanted 
guests and the architects had no 
thought for their comfort or learn
ing capacity when they erected 
Industries Hall.
Louis Owen 
To Speak On.
Dos Passos
Lectures On Modern
Novelists To Continue
John Dos Passos will be the sub
ject of the second in a series of lec
tures on modern novelists current
ly being sponsored by the English 
department. The talk, to be given 
by Louis J. Owen of the depart
ment, will be held next Tuesday, 
February 27, at 11:50 in MM 103. 
All interested students and faculty 
are invited to attend.
Writers to be discussed on later 
dates include F. Scott Fitzgerald, 
William Falkner, and W. Somerset 
Maugham.
Inquisitive Reporter 
Gives Own Comments
By Dolly Mitchell
This column has appeared week after week for the past year in 
the same form with the same type erf questions and answers. Now 
the inquiring reporter is getting sick and tired of being in the same 
old rut. ? ~~
the photography poor. Perhaps it 
is time for a change. But the 
photographer will be back on duty 
next week and life will be a little 
brighter by then. So, dear reader, 
please do not despair; after all, 
some day you might see your pic
ture here.
This week, due to the absence 
of the photographer, the inquir
ing reporter resolved to ask her
self: What do I think of this 
column?
Definite System
First of all, the inquiring re
porter has had, believe it or not, 
a definite system for this column.
The questions were based on cam
pus and controversies. The stu
dents polled were chosen at ran
dom as they passed through Skibo 
each Thursday noon.
Now, the ultimate aim in all 
this confusion was to present in-j Pittsburghs top men in industelligent opinions on sueh subjects j try, finance, and education will 
as the Scot, Student Council, Kil
Industrial Scions 
To Plan Meetings 
At Carnegie Teeli
THEM AU!
Philip Morris challenges
any other leading brand 
to suggest this test
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
tie Band, etc. However, what the 
column produced was, in general, 
rather confused, rambling com
mentaries. One thing the answers 
did reveal was that most students 
are uninformed on campus activi
ties. Time after time, students 
would shrug, I dont know much 
about this or that. Finally, in 
desperation the reporter decided 
*to ask students simply, What do 
you think? It turned out that 
this question was more difficult to 
answer than the others.
Those Pictures!
Then there are the pictures that 
always appear beside the quotes. 
If registration faces are bad, these 
are terrible! Life isnt really as 
tough here at Carnegie Tech as it 
would seem from the agonized ex
pressions. Of course, this fault 
does not lie with the students, 
rattier with the photography. It 
is rather inconvenient to stand by 
the door of the mens room to have 
your picture taken.
What do I think of this col
umn? The answers are inane and
meet at a luncheon in the William 
Penn Hotel tomorrow to hear 
plans for one of the most import
ant technical conferences in the 
citys history.
William P. Witherow, president 
of Blaw-Knox Company, will tell 
them about plans for a conference 
on Instrumentation for the Iron 
and Steel Industry scheduled 
here for March 28-29 under the 
joint sponsorship of the Instru
ment Society of Americas Pitts
burgh Section and Carnegie Tech.
The conference will bring to
gether some of the nations bestknown engineers, metallurgists, 
and chemists to talk about the in
struments and mechanisms which 
are used to automatically measure 
and control operations in the mak
ing of iron and steel and metal 
products.
Admiral Joseph W. Ludewig of 
the Carnegie Tech metallurgical 
engineering department will out
line the two-day program.
SMOKERS, who tried this test,
report in signed statements that
PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY
LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1. . . Light up a PHILIP MORRIS
Just fake a puff 5Se3s alWAKEUand 
s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through 
your nose. Easy, isnt it? And NOW...
2... Light up your present brand
Do exactly the same thingDONT 
INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? 
Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claimsbut ,Acocu ntiicg invites you 
to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself.
Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree ... 
,Acocu ntiicg is, indeed, Americas FINEST Cigarette!
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
PHIUP MORRIS
Brooks Student Stor 
Oklahoma A tc M Collega 
Stillwater, Oklahoma
Meeting the gang to discuss a quis 
a date with the campus queen 
or just killing time between classes 
Brooks Student Store at Still
water, Oklahoma is one of the fa
vorite gathering spots for students 
at Oklahoma A & M College. At 
Brooks Student Store, as in college 
campus haunts everywhere, a frosty 
bottle of Coca-Cola is always ou 
hand for the pause that refreshes 
Coke belongs.
Plus U State Tax
Ask for it either may . . . both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.
OTTLEO UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
O tWO, Coco-Cota Cmmfmmf

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4TAH9AIVTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1951
When an athletic team goes into a severe tailspin, there 
are usually a number of reasons for the collapse. Most often 
the coach or the players are shouldered with the blame. How
ever, sometimes the fault lies with some other person, or 
group of persons. In the opinion of this writer, the sudden 
reversal of form shown by the Carnegie basketball team is 
not due entirely to the coach or the players.
Rather the school administration must assume at least some 
part of the responsibility for the losses suffered during the threeweek period from the week prior to final examinations to the 
beginning of second semester classes. The amount of practice 
time allowed the team during this period was so limited that the 
players were not able to stay in playing condition, let alone cor
rect their mistakes and prepare for future opponents.
Just what was responsible for this situation arising? 
Why was the gym not available to the basketball team? 
First of all, Dr. Warners speech concerning the draft situa
tion was held there. Secondly, the gym was used for con
duction of final examinations and then immediately convert
ed into an area of registration for second semester classes. 
Add the time necessary to set-up the facilities for these 
various events and there just isnt any time left for basket
ball practice.
During registration the team tried to clear enough of 
the tables from around one basket in order to get in a little 
shooting practice. One of the janitors in the gym prohibited 
the move. It finally got to the point where coach Cratsley 
had to ask for the use of Duquesne Gardens in order to give 
his team a few hours practice.
We would like to remind the school administration that the 
gymnasium was constructed for use as a physical education plant, 
not as an auditorium, classroom, or administrative area. Granted 
that the lack of facilities at CIT sometimes makes it necessary to 
use the gym for other purposes. However, when this situation 
arises, we feel that it is only fair that the school administration 
take the needed steps to provide the team with another place in 
which to practice. If were going to have a basketball team at 
Carnegie, and theres no reason why we shouldnt, then lets 
make it possible for the team to meet its opponents on an even 
basisgive the team the needed amount of practice time.
Substitution Policy
Another situation that has been puzzling this writer 
concerns coach Mel Cratsleys use of substitutes. In several 
of the more recent games, and particularly in the Duquesne 
game, he has made use of two relatively inexperienced play
ers rather than inserting veteran playrs into th lineup in 
ordr to rest hte starters. Let it be known here that we ar 
not criticizing either Bennett or Pottmeyer; to the contrary, 
we feel that they will both be valuable additions to the 
Tartan floor team in the near future.
However, the former is a freshman, having had no previous 
college experience; the latter only joined the team at the begin
ning of the second semester and obviously isnt too familiar with 
the teams plays. To expect them to function smoothly against 
a strong team like Duquesne seems to be asking too much. Why 
not use Bob McCullugh and Hans Ackerman tc spell-off.the regu
lars? Both have had wide experience; McCullugh has proven to 
be a good floorman and rebounder, while Ackerman can be a 
threat with his set shot. Certainly we agree with any thought 
towards building for next year but lets aim for a few wins this 
year, too.
Hats Needed
Tarquans, WAA swimmers 
urgently need 35 sailor hats 
for one of the numbers in the 
coming water show. Anyone 
willing to help the group out 
is requested to print his name 
inside the hat and leave it 
w7ith the Womens Physical 
Department in the gym. The 
hats will be returned to their 
owners immediately after the 
show.
Plaid Faces Improved Pitt Five, 
Tough Indiana State Teachers
Panthers Out To Repay Early Season Loss;
Indiana Tutors Impressive With 11-3 Recrd
By Justin Davidson
With losses to Duquesne and W&J and a victory over Thiel to 
show for last weeks engagements, the slumping Tartans await tussels 
with Pitt and Indiana State Teachers this week. Wednesday night 
the Skibos travel to Pitt for a return engagement with their previous
Chan, g. 
Alcorn, g. 
Richards, f. 
McKinney, f. 
McGregor, g. 
Alvarez, g. 
Weber, c. 
Leibendrfer, g. Wash-Jeff 
Carnegie1814
1
16
10
020
e2069 
1356
OfficialsNick Jacobs, Harry Capp.
W&J Defeats Tartans 
With Last Half Rally
Skibos Outscored Fourteen Points 
During Fatal Third Quarter Slump
The Carnegie Tartans ran out of gas again last Saturday night 
as they went down a 69-56 defeat before a tournament bound Wash
ington & Jefferson team at the Washington High gym.
In an old familiar story the Tartans were leading at the half 
by an 8 point margin but didnt# 
have the stamina and last-half go 
to maintain their lead. A disastrous 
third period saw the Skibos outscored by 14 points which cost 
them the lead and the ball game.
Mestrovic Stars 
The Plaid was unable to reckon 
with the ability of Andy Mestrovic,
W&J forward, who racked up 
a total of 36 points to lead both 
teams in scoring. Bob McCullugh 
and Bill Farbacher shared the 
scoring honors for Carnegie with 
12 points each.
Taking the lead early in the first 
quarter at 7-5, the Tartans jump
ed off to a fast 23-11 first quarter 
lead. Although the J-boys nibbled 
four points off the lead, the Plaid 
went in at the end of the second 
period in front by a secure, 37- 
29 margin.
In their usual third canto let
down the Skibos were able to 
amass only six points. The debacle 
was made worse as the Cratsleymen lost the services of Kay 
Thompson, Len Bianchi, and Bob 
McCullough via the foul route.
Prexies Pull Away 
The fourth period saw the Prex
ies extend their lead as the under
manned Plaid fought vainly to 
turn the tide. There was no con
solation for the 69-56 loss as the 
preliminary game sawe the WashJeff frosh win 57-38.
? victims and then return home Sat
urday to play hosts to a winning 
Indiana Squad.
The contest with Pitt will be 
sparked by the Panthers revenge 
motive as they try to prevent the 
Skibos from making it four 
straight in the intra-city series. In 
their first meeting this year the 
Carnegie courtmen thumped the 
Pittsters to a 66-42 tune. In the 
same game Carnegie added insult 
to injury by substituting their en
tire freshman team against the in
ept Pitt five in the closing minutes.
Times Change
Things have changed, however, 
from last time. The Panthers have 
added four victories, including an 
upset win over Penn State, to 
show considerable improvement 
over their previous record. Mean
while the Tartans, hampered by 
the loss of their star center, Holste, 
have scraped together only three 
[Continued on page 5]
FRANK MENS WEAR
5816 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
CARNEGIE TECH
G.F.Pts.
Thompson, f.408
McCullugh, t5212
Craig, c.4210
Beck, g.226
Bianchi, g.226
Ackermann, f.00
Bennett, f.00
Farbacher, c.4412
Pottmyer, c.102
Katselas, g.00
WASH.& JEFF.
G.F.Pts.
Mastrovic, f.111436
Mojzer, f.248
Tokar, c.000
Demas Stars As Skibo Mermen 
Swamp Case, Lose To Oberlin
Coach Claude Sofields Skibo swimmers picked up both a win 
and a loss last weekend on their visit to two rival Ohio schools. 
Case proved to be easy for the local mermen, falling by a 45-30 
margin, while the Oberlin natators eked out a 39-36 win in a bitter
ly contested meet last Saturday. ?7---------------------------------------------
Captain Nick Demas was more | w*n *n the 440 and Weddell and 
brilliant than usual, particularly j Sapper placed second in the backin the Oberlin meet. Demas finish- stroke and breaststroke respeced first in both the 50-yard and j tively. In addition, Plaid swim100-yard freestyle events in both rners took third place in every 
meets and also swam the anchor event to add to the winning point
leg on the 400-yard relay team, 
which copped first place in both 
outings.
At Oberlin, Demas broke the 
meet record in the 50-yard free
style, winning in the time of 25.4
total.
In the Oberlin engagement, 
Demas two record wins and the 
Tartan victory in the 400-yard re
lay, plus Duncans first in the 
fancy diving, accounted for the
seconds. He also equalled the meet only first-place points awarded 
record of 55.7 seconds in the 100- i the Skibos.
yard freestyle.
In the Case meet, the Skibos 
spotted the Houghriders a win in 
the 300-yard medley relay, then
However, coach Sofields stal
warts placed second and third in 
most events, although not quite 
enough to offset the opponents five
took four straight firsts and were I wins. Kramer finished second in 
never behind thereafter. Demas ! the 220-yard freestyle and third in 
won twice, Kramer took the 220- j the 100-yard freestyle, 
yard freestyle, and Duncan led j Astle placed second in the 50- 
the divers. Macy chipped in with a [Continued on page 5]
Your I.D. CARD Mean:1 Off n Jewel|,y13 /OV/TT Watch RepairsTIME SHOP
3623 Fifth Ave. SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
Lets go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
-I1 '! 'H* *H"
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes St., Oakland 
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
Which "Joe has the 
"GABANARO?
Both, of course! The new Arrow 
Gabanaro sports shirt can be 
worn two ways. Because of the 
new Arafold collar, it can be worn 
with or without tie .. . looks 
perfect either way. In your exact 
collar size and sleeve length (sized 
to fit all shapes and sizes!) 
Washable rayon gabardine.
IX
f) ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
ARROWUNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, Inc.
ROY V. BEESE
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1951T ASWANPage 5
Scots To Meet 
Eight Teams 
On Gridiron
Buddy Overend, Director of In
tercollegiate Athletics, recently re
leased the football schedule for 
the 1951 season, which contains 
eight games, seven of them being 
with teams against whom CIT 
competed in 1950.
The first game on the schedule 
is the only new addition to the 
Tartans roster of opponents. On 
September 29th the* Tartans will 
begin with California State Teach
ers College at California, Pennsyl
vania. This is one of the schools 
to whom Penn State formerly sent 
their entering freshmen and hence, 
they have usually had good teams. 
The withdrawal of the Penn State 
freshmen has weakened them con
siderably, however.
Mr. Overend also announced 
that the Tartan home games will 
once again be played at Forbes 
Field. The 1951 schedule, as ap
proved by the Athletic Board is 
as follows:
September 29California State, 
Away.
October 6Bethany College, 
Home.
October 13  University of 
Akron, Away.
October 20Allegheny College, 
Home.
October 27Case Tech, Away.
Sivimmers Win
[Continued from page 4] 
yard freestyle, MacDonald and 
Weddel took second and third in 
the backstroke, and Sapper third 
in the breaststroke. Macy finished 
third in the 440-yard freestyle.
The season record now stands at 
four wins and four losses. W&J 
and Thiel will be met this week 
and wins in these two will give 
the swimmers a very respectable 
record for the year.
Practice Dates Set 
For CIT Womens 
Badminton Meet
The badminton season opened 
last Wednesday with a organiza
tion meeting. The group decided 
to start a singles and a doubles 
round-robin tournament on March 
5. The remaining weeks before the 
tournament will be used for prac
tice. The Womens Gym will be 
available at various hours 
throughout the week f%r anyone 
desiring to practice other than 
during the regular meeting hour 
of 4:30 on Wednesday. A list of 
the hours during which the gym 
may be used is posted in the wom
ens locker room.
Lead Stays Unchanged 
In Hot IM Cage Race
Emanon, Beta Thta Pi, Thta i, 
Citcom And Kappa Sigs Undefeated
The pas,t week was a busy one in the intramural basketball pro
gram as 20 games from the schedule were completed. In each of 
the three leagues the leaders managed to remain undefeated and 
retain possession of the top spot.
first^
November 3, W. & J. College, 
Away.
T^ovember 10, Lehigh Univer
sity, Home.
November 17Westminster Col
lege, Home.
In the National League, 
place Emanon added two more 
games to their list of victories as 
they defeated the Beta Theta Pi 
B team by the score of 54-26 
and then downed the Phi Kappa 
B team, 66-27.
Phi Kap Over DU
Elsewhere in the N a t io n a 1 
League, the Phi Kap B ;jam 
downed the Delta Upsilon B 
squad, 40-29. The Raiders put to
gether a high scoring second pe
riod to win out over the Sigma Nu 
A team by a 29-19 count. To 
finish out the league contests, the 
Obelisks won over the Detla Tau 
Delta squad by a 42-37 score while 
the Citcom Cordicrons defeatad 
the Beta B team a 32-17 count.
In the American League Theta 
Xi A and the Citcom Omicrons 
both increased their standings, the 
Citcom Omicrons besting the 
Greatest by the score of 45-20, 
while the TXs walloped the Kap
pa Sigma B team by a 60-10 
count and then continued their
FOR EASIER WRITING THIS SEMESTER
new
Its precision-built by 
the makers of worldfamous New Parker "SI".
Offers the smart style... smart 
features... of pens selling at 
twice the price.
Its the low-cost pen that will never let you down! 
scratching! No skips! No blots!
New 21 has the smooth-gliding Octanium point... a 
patented ink control... new fast-action filler. The ink sup
ply is visible... and you get real protection against leaking.
Ask your favorite pen dealer now to show you the new 
Parker 21the most popular $5.00 pen. Its the whats 
new in school. Lustraloy cap. Choice of points. Colors: 
blue, green, red, black. Set pen with matching pencil 
$8.75. Youll do better with a New Parker 21!
Andwhen its time fo hint for a gift 
hint for the finest of all: New Parker "51
New Parker 51 and 21 Pens write dry 
with Superchrome Ink. No blotters needed! 
(They also use any other ink.)
twr. 1951 br Th* Parktr Pn Compomf
winning streak by defeating the 
Beta Sigs by the score of 53-17.
PiKA Wins
The third place Pi Kappa Alpha 
team managed to retain their 
standing as they eeked out a win 
over the Marketeers by the nar
row margin of 33-30. The Little 
Sekuds went down to their first 
defeat of the current campaign as 
they lost to the Citcom Omicrons 
by the score of 45-29.
In a free for all scoring match 
the Phi Kappa A team won out 
over the Greatest by the score of 
79-50.
The Federal League leaders, 
Beta Theta Pi A, won two games, 
taking the first one from the Llabteksabs by the narrow margin of 
39-35, and then winning out over 
the Theta Xi B team by the score 
of 49-20 in a wild and wooly 
brawl.
Close behind in second place 
the Kappa Sigma A team also 
kept their record perfect as they 
gained their fifth win by taking 
over the DU A squad by the score 
of 54-33. Earlier in the week they 
downed the Blackbirds in a well 
played contest by a 49-38 score.
Sigma Nu Sinks TX
The Sigma Nu B team added 
two victories to their total as they 
downed the Blackbirds by a close 
score of 23-21 and then went on 
to down the hapless TX B team 
by a 40-19 count.
To round out the weeks activity 
in this league the men of Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon took the Gunners 
by a 32-17 count while the Llabteksabs downed the Starlane quin
tet by a 37-31 margin.
Standings
American League
Theta Xi A ...........................................5-0
Citcom Omicrons .....................................5-0
Pi Kappa Alpha.........................................4-1
Little Sekuds ........................................3-1
Alpha Tau Omega .................................2-1
Kappa Sigma B......................................2-2
Phi Kappa A .........................................1-3
Marketeers .................................................0-3
The Greatest ...........................................0-4
Beta Sigma Rho .......................................0-5Federal League
Beta Theta Pi A ..................................6-0
Kappa Sigma A ....................................5-0
Sigma Nu B ...........................................4VO
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ..........................3-2Blackbirds ...................................................3-2
Delta Upsilon 'A ..................................3-2
Starlane .......................................................1-4
Llabteksabs ...............................................1-4
Theta Xi B...............................................0-5
Gunners .......................................................0-5
National League
Emanon .......................................................6-0
Obelisks . .....................................................5-1
Raiders .........................................................4-1
Delta Tau Delta........................................3-2
Tau Delta Phi ........................................2-2
Delta Upsilon B ....1............................2-2
Citcom Cordicrons ..................................1-4
Sigma Nu A ...........................................1-4
Beta Theta Pi B ..................................1-5
Phi Kappa B ...........................................1-5
Carnegie Floor 
Team Defeats 
Thiel, 79-62
Fourth Quarter Rally 
Turns Game Into Rout; 
Thompson Paces Plaid
Staging a fourth quarter scor
ing spree, the Tartan hoopsters 
snapped a three-game losing 
streak last Wednesday evening in 
Skibo gym, swamping Thiel Col
lege by a 79-62 margin.
Instead of folding in the final 
period, as has been the case in 
several games this season, the 
Skibos turned what had been a 
fairly close game for three stanzas 
into a rout by pouring 21 points 
through the hoop in the fourth 
quarter.
Thompson Leads
Kay Thompson led the Plaid at
tack with seven goals from the 
field and two from the foul line 
for a total of 16 markers. 'Bill 
Farbacher and Len Bianchi fol
lowed ^se behind, scoring 14 and 
12 points respectively.
Although coach Mel Cratsleys 
stalwarts led all the way, the vis 
iting Tomcats stayed within range 
for three periods. The Scots held 
only a 34-28 advantage at halftime and could do no better than 
hold their six-point edge at the 
end of the third session.
Tomcats Fade
From that point on, however, 
the visitors were never in the 
game, as the Tartans began find
ing the range and won going away. 
The 79 points scored by the Plaid 
cagers equalled the single game 
high established last season 
against Steubenville.
In the preliminary game, the 
Carnegie freshman team stopped 
the St. Georges High School five 
by a 49-37 score.
Foreign Policy 
Discussion Is 
Set For Tonite
Asias Challenge to the West 
will be discussed by Colonel M. 
Thomas Tchou, former Director 
of the Labor Department of the 
Chinese Government and vicepresident of the International La
bor Conference at Geneva; Dr. 
Channing Iiem, former Korean Af
fairs Advisor for the U.S. Military 
Government in Korea, and Preston 
Schoyer, author and speaker who 
has spent many years in China.
The meeting will take place on 
February 20, 8:20 p.m., in the 
Stephen Foster Auditorium. Tick
ets are 60 cents for non-members.
CARNEGIEFGFPts
Thompson, f.7216
Craig, f.419
Farbacher, c.4614
Beck, g.102
Bianchi, g.4412
Bennett, f.408Pottmeyer, f.102
McCullugh, g.328
Ackerman, g.306
Katselas, g.102
Totals321579
THIELFGFPts
Denniston, f.4917
Marks, f.306
Riley, c.041
Davies, g.306
Davey, g.000
Bancroft, f.113
Dunder, f.11224
Shillito, g.215
Totals241462
HHes as easy to see 
through as the 21 't 
PH-glass reservoir
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
If Youre Particular See the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
Tartans Meet Pitt
[Continued from page 4]
more wins while sinking in ignominous defeat seven times.
The Panthers will again be 
counting on their main gun, Mike 
Belich, for their scoring effort. 
Belich, in his last visit to the Mar
garet Morrison Street gym, was 
held to nine points by the sterling 
work of guards Len Bianchi and 
Kay Thompson but still managed 
to led the Pitt scoring.
Bianchi vs. Belich
Coach Mel Cratsley will again 
be counting on Bianchi to hold 
Belich down. However, he has an
other worry in 6-5 center Don Virostek who has improved of late to 
give the Panthers an added scor
ing punch. Cratsley, too, must opi erate against a home floor advan
tage which has enabled the Pan
thers to win four of five games 
I there.
j When the Plaid hosts the In; diana Tutors Saturday night, they 
i will be facing a much improved 
I team over the one they defeated 
! 60-49 last year. The Teachers are 
| currently sporting an 11-3 record 
. as compared with 7-10 for the Tar| tans.
Well Balanced
Indiana has a well balanced 
| squad paced by Morgan, Watson, 
j and Hays, all veterans of last 
years action. Any one of the three 
represents a scoring threat, having 
| consistently led the Indiana buck
et-making.
Although they have not faced 
the same calibre of opponents as 
the Plaid, the steady Teachers will 
I present a real threat to the ha, 
I and out Skibos.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 TAA9AN TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1951
Riotous Disk Jockey Program 
Added To WRCT Schedule
Sturrnan And Bickelman Spin Hot Platters 
On Show Sponsored By Non-Cleaning Soap
WRCT added a new record show to its schedule last weekIvan 
Sturman and Don Bickelman spin a few hot platters, and do the
commercials. The program has various sponsors, such as ----------
the soap that doesnt float, doesnt even clean, but is a good compainon in the tub! The program' 
was such a hit that several peo
ple went down to WRCTs studios 
to see f it looked as funny as it 
sounded!
Commenting on WRCTs policy 
of attempting t3 provide programs 
in which the students are inter
ested, Dave Steiner, station man
ager, said, We would like to have 
an opera show with commentary 
and an Opera Quiz. Since WRCT 
is purely a student activity, we 
cannot produce such a program 
unless there are enough students 
interested in participating. We 
plan to broadcast the most popu
lar operas. If you are interested 
in the proposed show, please con
tact Pete West (PE. 1-8929).
WRCT broadcasts four nights a 
week, Monday through Thursday.
A complete schedule for this 
weeks programs, as of last Fri
day, is printed below. The sta
tion can be heard in the mens
dorms, the barracks, and Morewood Gardens.
Schedule
Tuesday
8:00Stan Kenton Show 
8:30The Extremes 
9:00Navy Star Time 
9:15Disk Jockey (Gardner)
10:00News 
10:05Classical Hour 
Wednesday 
8:00Latin Tempos 
8:30Drama Hour 
9:30Twenty Questions 
10:00News 
10:05Classical Hour 
Thursday 
8:00Broadway Showtime 
8:30Stars on Parade 
8:45Sports Roundup 
9:00Proudly We Hail 
9:30Records With Wes 
10:00News 
10:05Classical Hour 
Monday 
8:00Tech Varieties 
8:30Corn With Claster 
9:00Jazz Jamboree at CIT 
9:30Leave it to the Girls 
9:45Guest Star 
10:00News 
10:05Classical Hour
Patronize 
Our Advertisers
I. BINSTOCK
*Jeweler
Squirrel Hill, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
5826 Forbes Street
RODGERS
DAIRY
TRY OUR
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
KAP!sRaKNTWANEY
Made with pure whole 
milk
PIs!sPY
Dairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig 
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside 
Other stores downtown
BOOKSELLERS
?
Used - TEXTBOOKS - New 
College - Medical - Law - Technical - Science
ten
HEAD LEES
BOOK STOREm 
3811 FIFTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH 13, PA.
MAyflower 1-3689
the worlds finest, largest selling
DRAWING PENCILS
SMOOTHER, STRONGER 
ACCURATELY GRADED
Ask working architects, engi
neers, draftsmen. See bow many 
use Venus the pencil that 
holds a fine point or sharp 
chisel edge. The pencil that 
gives you opaque lines for 
sharp, clear reproduction. 
Venus Drawing Pencils are 
smooth, strong, accurate and 
uniform in all 17 degrees.
Buy them at your College 
Book Store.
cowr*MTOBACCOAMERICANt S/M.FT-tuiky Strike Means fine Tobacco
Fror. uou'tt hear ^i ^
GET 
THIS
belpful, 
illustrated 
instruction 
brochure.
INI Flit Venus Drawing Pen
cils! Send 25# for the brochure on the art of pencil ren
dering. Included is aTechnical Test Kit with two 
Venus Drawing Pencil*.
AMERICAN PENCIl CO. 
HOBOKEN. N. J.
r AMERICAN I* EMC It CO.1 Hobo^M, Nw Jars*y
I Is 2 5# for mj copr of "Sketching '
I with Venu*and the TtcbnictU Tetl Kit |
* with 2 Venus Drawing Pencils. jJ  ................... 
I School. . ......................................... I
I  ............................................................ I
I Ctty. .................... .......................................J
ENJOY YOUR CIGARETTE!...
If youre not happy with your present brand (and a 
38-city survey shows that millions are not), smoke 
Luckies! Youll get the happy blending of perfect 
mildness and rich taste that fine tobaccoand only 
fine tobaccocan give you. Remember, Lucky 
Strike means fine tobacco. So get complete smoking 
enjoyment. Be HappyGo Lucky today!
. sea"
Queyran
Fra

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1951TA4MPANPage 7
Sigma Phi Belts Elect 
Officers At Meeting
Sigma Delta Phi Fraternity on February 11, 1951, had an elec
tion of officers, at their regular meeting. They are at present: Presi
dent, George Bogovich; Vice President, Robert Lloyd; Correspond
ing Secretary, Robert Lloyd; Recording Secretary, Tony Miscimarra; 
Treasurer. Robert Ellstrom; Social*----------------------------------------------------
Chairman, Charles Keller; Mem
bership Chairman, Frank Mihelich.
President Bogovich stated the 
fraternity would have a social on 
March 3, 1951, at Carnegie Union, 
to which members, their wives or 
girl friends and prospective mem
bers are invited.
The former Secretary Robert 
Lloyd read a letter from a brother 
by the name of Ray Schwalm, who 
is a master sergeant at Fort Sill, 
Oklahoma. Following the meet
ing Charles Keller gave a very
good talk on tungsten carbide.
Any evening student aspiring for 
membership in Sigma Delta Phi 
Fraternity should contact one of 
the aforementioned officers, or any 
member of the Fraternity. The 
Fraternity will be pleased to ac
cept new men whc are interested 
in a social fraternity. The dues 
are insignificant in comparison 
with the day fraternities, and 
there is at least one social affair 
given by the fraternity each 
month.
More BOUNCE To The Ounce
Reminder
A reminder to those who 
would like to add a subject to 
their curriculum: The final
date to add subjects is Wed
nesday Evening. March 7.
Amiable Will 
Exemplifies 
Old Saying
They say that a busy person is a 
happy one; this is certainly true of 
Wilbert R. Schnarrenberger, pres
ent treasurer and past vice-presi
dent of Evening Student Council 
and active member of the Council 
for the past four years.
Amiable Will is past president 
of the Pittsburgh Grotto of the Na
tional Speleological Society (cave 
explorers, to you neophytes) of 
which he has been a member for 
several years, and makes frequent 
trips to various caves in the West
ern Pennsylvania area. He was 
orffe of the adventurous speleans 
that discovered in New Paris, Pa., 
the most complete eastern elk 
skeleton in existence. Wills wife, 
who is also an ardent cave explor
er, accompanies him on many ex
peditions. They are the proud par
ents of a future spelean, 9 month 
old Ross.
We.1l ta (ce tli&
on&
T
heyre both good basketball 
players. But if we were to 
judge them the way we judge 
telephone equipment, we d take the 
small one.
You see, telephone equipment occu
pies valuable space, uses costly mate
rials. Paring down its size helps keep 
down the cost of telephone service.
Take voice amplifiers, for example. 
Telephone engineers put the squeeze
on size, came up with a new small 
type. When 600 of these new ampli
fiers are mounted on a frame two feet 
wide and eleven feet high, they do a 
job which once required a roomful of 
equipment. Size was cut  but not 
performance!
This is one of many cases where the 
Bell System has made big things small 
to help keep the cost of telephone 
service low.
^ %
fccXBNEGl... f)
** * // n/i # Jr/AiiMrvy *
Page edited by Evening School Students oi the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor .....................................................................................Frank Mihelich
News Editor ..............................................................................Martha Latza
Reporters .... Bill Bartoli,. Robert Ellstrom, Robert Lloyd, Dick 
Gomrick, Alice Naumetz, George Schussler, LeRoy Stoutenburg, Jr.
Editorial
Get Out And Dance!
As must occur at the start of each evening school semester, we 
find ourselves upon the eve of our first spring function, the Washing
tons Birthday Dance with Bill LeRoy and his orchestra. Again, as 
usually happens, Student Councils Social committee will have done 
their utmost to assure a pleasant evening for all who attend, and 
again, as has happened before, we are only too sure that Student 
Council will be extremely fortunate to break even, if that.
Why does the writer strike such a pessimistic tone? Because in 
the several semesters of his attending evening classes at CIT he has 
been privileged to attend more than a few of Student Councils wellpublicized affairs. There, he has seen as high as sixty to seventy 
couples, which means perhaps eighty to a hundred actual, live, inter
ested students. Interested in what, we ask? In the art of becoming 
better acquainted with their fellow devotees to the shrine of educa
tion, their comrades in the classrooms and lecture halls. To judge the 
student body by the small percentage of attendance at social affairs, 
it seems logical to say that the vast majority of the Clan are little 
better than introverted, shy little bookworms, intent only on better
ing the means whereby they may attain more of the almighty dollar. 
Admittedly, this is a most commendable and typical American trait. 
While it is the underlying reason for virtually all of us attending 
evening school, yet it is extremely important that the joyous side of 
life be not neglected.
For this, Student Councils latest trip into the realm between the 
columns of red and black ink, lets all who read these futile musings 
resolve unto ourselves to break from the shell of habit and actually 
come to the dance. Let those of you who have not savored the fel
lowship of our evening school socials take the plunge and join the 
happy gathering this Saturday evening.
The married men may think that it is not worth the cost of a 
baby sitter, although we do believe that the in-laws might be pre
vailed upon for such a worthy cause. If this happy expedient is not 
practical, leave the wife at home and pick up one of the old flames 
and for that matter, there is no reason why the wife may not lay the 
responsibilities of parenthood in the husbands lap and have an even
ing out with the rest of the lovely ladies.
Having thus disposed of the worries and objections the married 
element may bring to the fore, we next strike aside the doubts and 
timidity of the temporarily un-attached ladies or gentlemen in our 
midst.
It has always been the writers contention that our evening school 
sorority and the several fraternities should make every effort to per
suade their single members to attend school functions en masse, in 
other words, to Isimply revive the once popular stag lines. While it is 
true that the various organization membership rolls do not encompass 
the majority of the students of CIT, it seems little enough to ask the 
non-members and members to break the ice, take matters into their 
own hands, come to the aid of Student Council and attend the dance.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEMA
RENT
a typewriter
and keep up 
with your work
Portables 
Standard Office Machines 
Wide Carriage Machines 
Rates as low as*4.00 per month
3 Mos. $10.00
. FIRST RENI AL APPLIES 
TO PURCHASE PRICE
Fort Pitt 
Typewriter Co.
644 Liberty Avenue
AT. 1-8320
Big Dance !
This Saturday, February 24, 
the much advertised Wash
ingtons Birthday dance will 
be held in Thistle Hall from 
9:00 to 12:00. A large crowd is 
expected and Bill LeRoy and 
his Band in Demand has 
promised to play your favor
ites plus as many of your re
quests as can be managed. 
Tickets may be purchased 
from either members of Coun
cil or Dal McKelway (IH 
135A), at $2.25 tax included, 
per couple. Tickets will also 
be sold at the door, and re
freshments will be served in 
the Black Cat Lounge. This 
first social affair of the sec
ond semester sponsored by 
Evening Student Council is 
one of the big dances of the 
year, so come along and join 
in the fun.
COMBO
LEO ALMAN
HA 1-2083

---------------------------------------------------

White buttondown oxford, soft 
roll to the collar. 
Popular as a holiday 
with the fellows and 
the gals.
I don't mean 
to be catty 
but I hate 
;pussyfooting!
- L/ur feline friend may not be from Missouri, but she sure  
likes to be shown! She saw right through those thin, quick-trick, cigarette
tests and realized you couldnt fairly judge a cigarettes mildness with a
mere one puff or a swift sniff. Right on the spot, she decided they werent 
fur her! Sophisticated, but shrewd, she knew what she wanted. 
The Sensible Test ... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test,l s
: }which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady
smokeon a pack after pack, day after day basis. W |f\ j
No snap judgments needed. After youve enjoyed Camels 
and only Camelsfor 30 days in your T-Zone
(T for Throat, T for Taste), we believe youll know why ... ^11
Fine whit 
broadcloth, extreme 
widespread collar. 
Sharpest shirt on 
the quadrangles 
this year.
More People Smoke Camels
jTHE HEM AjTU! NOCH!UjjUIThe Manhattan Skirt Company, makers of Manhattan shirt*, neck* 
wear, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, heachtvear and handkerchiefi.
Page 8TAMANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1951I
Citcom Clan Plans 
Spaghetti Dinner 
Saturday Evening
On Saturday evening Citcom 
Clan will hold its annual spa
ghetti dinner. This affair, which 
is a high point in the Clan social 
functions every year, is being giv
en for the members by the execu
tive board of the Clan. Dinner will 
be served in Carnegie Union at 
6:00 p.m. and will be followed by 
dancing and entertainment until 
12 p.m.
Tickets will not be sold, but 
anyone who is planning to attend 
should sign the list posted on the 
Citcom bulletin board in front of 
Skibo. The dinner is free to mem
bers, but non-members will be 
charged 60 cents.
There will also be a general 
Clan meeting this week on Thurs
day at 4:30 p.m. in the Union.
Bulletin Board
Helen Terre Compares 
French And US Education
Miss Helene Terre, French co
ordinator for the United States 
Commission on International Co
operation in Education and the 
Ministry,of Education in France, 
will speak during the assembly 
hour, 11:30, February 27, Mar
garet Morrison Recreation Hall. 
Her topic will be Education in 
France as Compared to Education 
in the United States.
Miss Terre is a familiar person 
on the CIT campus, for she spoke 
here last year. She has done re
search pertaining to the origin of 
the technical language used in 
printing, publishing, engraving, 
and drawing in connection with 
Inventaire General de la Langue 
Franaise, sponsored by the 
French National Research Coun
cil.
HARVEY S MEN'S SHOP
HEADQUARTERS FOR MANHATTAN SHIRTS IN SQUIRREL HILL
1707 MURRAY AYE.
Open Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Evenings
PHONE JA. 1-3500
Music Department Presents 
Program Of Chamber Music
Carnegie Techs music depart
ment will present a program of 
chamber music by students of 
woodwind and string ensembles 
Tuesday, February 20, at 8:15 p.m. 
in the exhibition room of the Fine 
Arts building.
G o e s t a Andreasson, associate 
professor of violin and chamber 
music at Carnegie, and Arthur Kubey, instructor of bassoon, will di
rect.
The program will include Di
vertimento for Woodwind Quintet, 
Op. 26 by Mason, Quintet in A 
Major for Clarinet and Strings, K. 
581 by Mozart, Finale from 
Piano Sonato, Op. 10, No. 2 by 
Beethoven, and Octet for Winds 
in E-flat Major, Op. 103 by 
Beethoven.
Arts And Crafts Center 
Exhibits Water Colors
The sixth annual exhibition of 
the Pittsburgh water color society 
opened February 4 in the galler
ies of the Arts and Craft center, 
Fifth and Shady avenues, and will 
continue through February 27. The 
galleries are open daily to the pub
lic from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and 
Sunday from 2 to 10 p.m.
Nearly 40 of the societys 50 
members are showing in the exhi
bition.
fessor of violin and chamber mu
sic in the music department, and 
Mr. Bogianckino is an instructor 
in piano at Carnegie.
The program for the recital will 
include Sonata in D Major, Op. 
12, No. 1 by Beethoven, Sonata 
in G Major, Op. 78 by Brahms, j 
and Sonata in F-.Sharp Minor, 
Op. 84 by Reger.
Andreasson And Bogianskino 
Present Piano, Violin Recital
The Carnegie music department 
will present a recital by Goesta 
Andreasson, violinist, and Massimo 
Bogianckino, pianist, Sunday, 
February 25, at 8:15 p.m. in the 
Carnegie Theatre.
Mr. Andreasson is associate pro
Tau Beta Pi Tutoring 
Project Gets Early Start
The Tau Beta Pi tutoring class
es are beginning early this semes
ter. The schedule is as follows: 
S-101 Thursday 4:30 EH 205 
S-102 Thursday 4:30 EH 207 
S-202 Tuesday 4:30 IH 211 
S-222 Tuesday 4:30 IH 210 
S-223 Thursday 4:30 IH 210 
S-402 Monday 4:30 IH 210
Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests 
Number 13...THE OCELOT
