Voting Poll 
Taken 
By Tech Students 
See Page 2
All-Star Intramural 
Football 
Team Named 
See Page 6
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Dr. W ariier Nam 
Of American Ch
Drama
Tickets for the next play, 
Uncle Vayna, presented by 
the drama department here at 
Carnegie Tech will be avail
able in Room 100 of the Fine 
Arts Building starting Janu
ary 4, 1955. Room 100 is the 
main office in the main en
trance of the Fine Arts build
ing. Tickets are available 
upon presentation of student 
identification cards.
The play is called Uncle 
Vayna and takes place in 
pre-revolutionary Russia.
d in a na^Societys 
emical en<1 V'iloting
tion-wMjibg'liat "C 
72,000 ch*&fcS< 
gineers. Re^ultk oj 
are announced In 1
Holiday Chapel 
Held Today
jjOias Recently been 'announced, 
that iMrIies Flynn,  senior i;in 
jB|'rfpaintmg and desigrN^g^artmenSsWas^awarded first pjpgpioT' 
his eniijr in the est>
Chester Artitfef^Associaito*i
sht>w]held at Bedford Wills, 
New'' Mr. Flynn was
only gtudgnt contributor iff the 
com^pmS^^icik^was entered 
'Wgely Tjy professional artists.
Wn^~^Uil-liie/^Tanting done in 
tht'goudcii^ rnpd ium wop for the 
 indust^Faesilii^ST&lent a years 
m&afe&ship /n the New York 
Museum oi^fodern Art. The en
try is now a part of the art collectiprl tfwned by Mr. and Mrs. 
Prestpii Mabon of New York.
cfyTames Panthers, 79-67Tau Be 
Names/Xy By Jim Lacey ?
T|ie ^mighty mites from Tech i 
^WrecKa tSikr Panther team, as 
the Tartan Tilled another one 
out of their kilts!
The Plaid Jumping Jacks cut 
down Bob Timmons boys with a 
torrid second half that saw Tech 
throw the ball through the hoop 
for 16 straight points before Pitt 
scored. Controlling the backboards 
and playing a fast game, combin
ed with a tight defense, the Tar
tans racked up 51 points in the 
second half while Pitt could do 
no better than to score 33. 
i After an opening 2-2 tie Pitt 
soared ahead 11-2, with Frank 
Zimmovan dumping in three 
baskets. But for Mockers setshots 
Pitt might have routed Tech right 
then and there, but Ralph sent 
four sets through the hoop to keep 
Tech in the game. As the teams 
went to the dressing rooms the 
score was 34-28, favor of Pitt. 
[Continued on page 8]
At a recent* mieetmg/ of the 
Carnegie Tech' chapter of Taw* 
Beta Pi, Ed pavisjL Senior E.E., 
was elected presifai^.NjB*ri^'ffttev 
the expired tdrrn IfiSft vacant by 
the resignation^^. Bill Sick, who 
resigned duapro th<jTessure of 
other activities. Dayis 
 ber of Studdtet^ouncxlT ODK, Eta 
Kappa Nu\ and Kappa Sigma 
social fraternity.
Also elected , to office at this 
meeting were rairjc Ql^^ienson 
and Bob Leis y^ffisWora nerfflyC 
treasurer and recor<jlifeg secretary 
respectively to frH vacancies left 
by Pftfrig!^ election and tbe gtfldu^ 
ation of Ken Luther/ y Gzzs 
In addition to the regular busi
ness transacted at' tnis yn^^ting, 
} final plans were liiid for the 
initiation banqudef to be held at 
the Union on January 9. At that 
time If new members will be 
welcomed into the spciety.
The Secretarial Club is 
having its annual Christmas 
party on Wednesday, Decem
ber 15, at 3:30 in the Rec Hall. 
There will be refreshments, 
entertainment, and fun for 
everyone.Fieler has an audience as he dumps one in against Pitt at the 
Skibo Gym.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 14, 1954
Voting Poll By Student Shows 
Electioneering Not Much Help
The pocket book and traditional party lines outweighed tem
poral issues, such as foreign affairs and communism in govern
ment, when the voters cast their ballots last November.
This was revealed in a post-election survey of Pittsburgh voters 
conducted by a social psychology^ 
class under the direction of Dr. E.
P. Hollander at Tech.
The report, aimed at finding out 
why people voted the way they 
did, was the first of its kind to 
come out of an industrial city. 
Between November 3. the day after 
the elections,' and November 16, a 
representative sample of 443 eligi
ble voters from all Pittsburghs so
cial and economic levels were in
terviewed by Carnegie Tech stu
dents. The questions related to the 
voters background, his party reg
istration, his voting behavior and 
related attitudes.
Significance
Pittsburgh, Professor Hol
landers report said, is a partic
ularly significant area in which to 
conduct such a survey since it has 
characteristics common ' to any 
number of highly industrialized 
urban centers. The 1954 election, 
he pointed out, was of particular 
importance because it provided the 
first major test of the Eisenhower 
administration at the polls.
In general, registered Republi
cans tend to think the 1954 econ
omic picture is good while most 
registered Democrats think it is 
between mediocre and bad. And 
their view of the economic picture 
was directly related to the way 
they voted. Among Republicans, 
the dimmer the view of economic 
conditions, the more they were 
swayed from the party vote and 
the more they tended not to vote 
at all. Democrats were inclined to 
vote along party lines, in spil^e of 
their view of economic conditions.
Issue of Communism
On issues of communism, 25% 
of the registered Democrats 
thought the Republicans were 
tougher on Reds, but the majority 
of them voted Democratic anyway.
The survey found that McCarthy 
supporters were almost as promi
nent among Democrats as among 
Republicans. A quarter of the Re
publicans and 18% of the Demo
crats gave their support to the 
censured senator. McCarthy sup
port among the Republicans did 
not appreciably alter their vote. 
But it made quite a difference 
among the Democrats. Only 46% 
of the pro-McCarthyites in the 
Democratic fold voted for the 
Democratic candidate for congress 
and only 57% of them voted for 
the Democratic gubernatorial can
didate. Another 35% of pro-Mc
Carthy Democrats did not vote at 
all.
There was no evidence to indi
cate that President Eisenhowers 
eleventh hour telephone campaign
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO 
THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASS!
KEEP ALERT FOR A 
BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Dont let that "drowsy feel
ing cramp your style in class 
... or when youre "hitting 
the books. Take a NoDoz 
Awakener! In a few minutes, 
youll be your normal best... 
wide awake . . . alert! Your 
doctor will tell youNoDoz 
Awakeners are safe as coffee. 
Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, CAR N
-Phi-Beta pack 
35 tablets m handy tinNOQOZ
W 4 K I M [ RS
to woo voters had any significant 
success. Democrats and Republi
cans alike received phone calls, 
but few votes were influenced. The 
vast majority of voters, 87%, re
ported that they had not shifted 
their voting intention whatsoever 
throughout the campaign, and 88% 
had already made up their minds 
before the last week of the cam
paign. Exposure to Eisenhower or 
Stevenson on radio and television 
had some effect on party advo
cates but none on advocates of the 
opposition party.
Candidates Popular
The survey showed that Repub
lican party support in the mid
term election was tied to Ikes 
popularity. Among Republicans 
who had voted for Eisenhower in 
1952 but would not vote for him 
now, only 43% supported the party 
candidates this November. An
other 28% did not vote.
But detection from Stevenson 
was not nearly so critical in dimin
ishing the Democratic vote as de
fection from Eisenhower in dimin
ishing the Republican vote. Of 
Democrats who defected from 
Stevenson, 67% still turned in a 
Democratic vote for congress and 
78% voted for the Democratic gu
bernatorial candidate.
Both Stevenson and Eisenhower, 
the report showed, are still strong 
candidates. Of all those who sup
ported Eisenhower in the 1952 
election, 84% would support him 
now. The survey also showed that 
87% of Stevensons supporters in 
1952 would still vote for-him today.
Arthur G. Mines 
Joins EE Faculty 
For Coming Year
Great Britains leading scien
tist in the new field of magnetic 
amplifiers has joined the Carnegie 
Tech faculty as visiting associate 
professor of electrical engineering.
Arthur G. Milnes, principal sci
entific officer of the British Minis
try of Supply, will work hand in 
hand with Techs Dr. L. A., Finzi 
who is considered the leading au
thority in this country on mag
netic amplifiers, the new devices 
which have been substituted for 
power electron tubes in industry 
and national defense work.
Professor Milnes comes to this 
country under a fellowship grant
ed by the Royal Society of London 
in conjunction with the National 
Academy of Science in Washing
ton, D. C.
Among many universities and
research centers open to him in 
this country under the grant, Pro
fessor Milnes said he chose Car
negie Tech because of the advanc
ed basic research in electrical en
gineering carried on here, es
pecially the work in magnetic am
plifiers under the direction of Dr. 
Finzi. This research is supported 
in part by the U. S. Office oi Naval 
Research.
Mr. Milnes has been given a 
years leave of absence from the 
Royal Aircraft Establishment at 
Farnborough to do research and 
study in this country. A graduate 
of Englands University of Bristol, 
he has been honored with numer
ous awards and prizes by the Brit
ish Institute of Electrical Engi
neers and the Royal Physical So
ciety for his papers and work in 
the field of magnetic amplifiers.
Patronize 
Our Advertisers
The exciting new idea behind
the motoramic Chevrolet
The Bel Air 4-Door Sedanone of 14 new Fisher Body beauties in three new series
/
Maybe once in a car-buying lifetime, you 
come across something that breaks all the 
old patterns and establishes new ones. This 
is that kind of car. This is the true story of 
how Chevrolet and General Motors shaped 
a new idea in steel.
Like most good ideas, this one is pretty simple. Chevrolet and 
General Motors set out to build the first low-priced car that 
would:
 bring you the very freshest and finest styling to be had.
 bring you the most advanced engine design and engineering features.
 bring you the kind of performance and the kind of ride that have 
never been available before in a low-priced car.
 bring you the highest quality of manufacture and materials.
All this in Chevrolets price field? That did take some doing! 
And isnt it logical that only Chevrolet and General Motors 
have the people, skills, resources and facilities, to carry out this
exciting new idea? Here is how 
this new Chevrolet changes all 
your ideas about cars!
Real Show-Car Styling!
Tour eye tells you the Motoramic 
Chevrolet is no styling patch-up 
job. A rakish, low profile . . . soft 
swiftness from its sleek rear fenders 
to its wide-eyed Sweep-Sight windshield ... a new outlook for motoring. 
And that outlook doesnt change when you slip inside . . . exciting fabrics 
and trim are harmonized with the whole car.
A Sensational Ride!
You live the new idea instantly 
; . . you glide . . . actually glide 
because spherical joints roll with 
the punch of the road in Chev
rolets new Glide-Ride front sus
pension. And outrigger rear springs mean new balance in 
turns . . . turns made so effortless by new ball-race steering.
And when you stop suddenly, new Anti-Dive braking control 
checks that nosing down in front . . . you get heads up stop
ping. Tubeless tires mean much greater protection against 
blowouts. And with new high-level ventilation theres fresher air.
8
6
Power Beyond Compare!
You also feel the new idea 
quickly ; : . quick power like 
a panthers paw with the new 
Turbo-Fire V8 (162 h.p.) 
and two newBlue-Flame 6s.
And sparking this perform
ance is a 12-volt electrical 
system giving you better igni
tion, faster starting, greater electrical reserve for any of the 
power assists you might desire. You have a transmission 
choice of economical Overdrive and improved, automadc 
Powerglide (optional at extra cost) or standard shift.
Even Air Conditioning!
And if you desire the convenience of power assists (optional 
at extra cost) . .. youll find new power-steering and improved 
power brakes on all models. Power-controlled windows and 
powershift seat are available on the Bel Air and Two-Ten? 
models, while air conditioning may be added on V8 models:
Wont You Try It?
Here, we can only tell you how successfully the Motoramic Chevrolet 
expresses the new idea behind it. But the car itself can quickly show you,f 
Come in for a demonstration drive, wont you, first chance you get.
MORE THAN A NEW CAR,
A NEW CONCEPT OF LOW-COST MOTORING
Everything's new in the
motoramic
CHEVROLET
^CHEVROLET A
oooooooooooooooooooaoooo
Drive with care . .. EVERYWHERE! Make December 1 5 and every day SAFE-DRIVING DAY!
See your Chevrolet Dealer

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 14, J954CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
On Campos
(Author of Barefoot Boy With Cheek etc.)
SCIENCE MADE SIMPLE: No. 1
In this day and age, as I like to call it, everybody should know something about science. Unfortunately, however, the great majority of us are majoring in elocution, and we do not get a chance to take any science. But we can at least learn the fundamentals.
Though this column is intended to be a source of innocent merriment for all sexes and not to concern itself with weighty matters I have asked the makers of Philip Morris whether I might not from time to time use this space for a short lesson in science. Makers, 
I said to them, might I not from time to time use this space for a short lesson in science?
Bless you, lad! cried the makers, chuckling. You may cer- tamly use this space from time to time for a short lesson in science*9 They are very benign men, the makers, fond of children, small animals, community singing, and simple country food. Their benevolence is due in no small measure to the cigarettes they smoke, for Philip Morris is a cigarette to soothe the most savage of breasts. I refer not only to the quality of the tobacco  which, as everyone knows, is amiable, humane, and gracious - but also to the quality of the package. Here is no fiendishly contrived container to fray the fingernails and rasp the nerves. Here, instead, is the most simple of devices: you pull a tab, a snap is heard, and there, ready at hand, are your Philip Morris Cigarettes. Strike a match, take a puff, and heave a delicious little rippling sigh of pure content.
So, with the cordial concurrence of the makers, I will from time to time devote this column t a brief lesson in science.
Let us start today with chemistry. It is fitting that chemistry should be the first of our series, for chemistry is the oldest of sciences, having been discovered by Ben Franklin in 123 B.C. when an apple fell on his head while he was shooting the breeze with Pythagoras one day outside the Acropolis. (The reason they were outside the Acropolis and not inside was that Pythagoras had been thrown out for drawing right triangles all over the walls. They had several meetings outside the Acropolis, but finally Franklin said, Look, Pythagoras, this is nothing against you, see, but Im no kid any more and if I keep laying around on this wet grass with you, I'm liable to get the break-bone fever. Im going inside. Pythagoras, friendless now, moped around Athens for a while, then drifted off to Brussels where he married a girl named Harriet Sigafoos and went into the linseed oil game. He would also certainly be forgotten today had not Shakespeare written Othello.)
But I digress. We were beginning a discussion of chemistry, and the best way to begin is, of course, with fundamentals. Chemicals are divided into elements. There are four: air, earth, fire, and water. Any number of delightful combinations can be made from these elements, such as firewater, dacron, and chefs salad.Chemicals can be further divided into the classes of explosive and non-explosive. A wise chemist always touches a match to his chemicals before he begins an experiment.
A great variety of containers of different sizes and shapes are used in a chemistry lab. There are tubes, vials, beakers, flasks, pipettes, and retorts. (A retort is also a snappy comeback, such as Oh, yeah? or Sos your old man!
(Perhaps the most famous retort ever made was delivered by none other than Noah Webster himself. It seems that one day Mr. Websters wife walked unexpectedly into Mr. Websters office and found Mr. Websters secretary sitting on Mr. Websters knee. Why Mr. Webster! cried Mr. Websters wife. I am surprised!(No," my dear, he replied. I am surprised. You are astonished. (Well, sir, it must be admitted that old Mr. Webster eot off a good on*', but still one can not help wishing he had spent less time trifling with his secretary, and more time working on his dictionary. Many of his definitions show an appalling want of scholarship. Take, for instance, what happened to me not long ago. I went to the dictionary to look up houghband which is a band that you pass 
around the leg and neck of an animal. At the time I was planning to pass bands around the legs and necks of some animals, and I wanted to be sure I ordered the right thing.(Well sir, thumbing through the Hs in the dictionary, I happened to come across horse. And this is how Mr. Webster defines horsea large, solid hoofed herbivorous mammal, used as a 
draft animal.(Now this, I submit, is just plain sloppiness. The most cursory investigation would have shown Mr. Webster that horses are not mammals. Mammals give milk. Horses do not give milk. It has to be 
taken from them under the most severe duress.(Nor is the horse a draft animal, as Mr. Webster says. Man is a draft animal. Mr. Webster obviously had the cavalry in mind, but even in the cavalry it is men who are drafted. Horses volunteer.)
But I digress. We were discussing chemistry. I have told you the most important aspects, but there are many morefar too many to cover in the space remaining here. However, I am sure that there is a fine chemistry lab at your very own college. Why dont you go up some afternoon and poke around? Make a kind of fun day out of it. Bring ukeleles. Wear funny hats. Toast frankfurters on the Bunsen 
burners. Be gay, be merry, be loose, for chemistry is your friend!
Mi Shulman, 1954
This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS 
who think you would enjoy their cigarette.
Machines Do Good Job 
In Getting Grades Out
Home Ec Club 
Holds Dinner
At five oclock on December 9, 
the Home Economics Club held a 
social mixer in the Jane Fales 
Room in Margaret Morrison.
Following this, at 5:30, the group 
proceeded to the Recreation Hall 
for the buffet dinner. The accent 
for the evening was international, 
with the menu including turkey 
tetrazzini, French tossed salad, 
garlic Italian bread, Czechoslo
vakian fruit torte, and coffee.
After dinner, several guests told 
about some joyous holidays of 
other religions. These guests in
cluded Kiki Nanavati from India, 
Gobinda Datta from East Pak
istan, Charmaine DeKretser of 
Ceylon, Gamal Fam from Egypt, 
Edward Kurry from China, Shigeru Ishihara from Japan, and
William Chu from Korea. Other 
special guests included Mr. and 
Mrs. Sam Gibson, Mrs. Helen 
Hackett, and Mrs. Edith Alexan
der.
Gift Suggestions
The Home Economics Club also 
has some Christmas gift sugges
tions .to .offer. . Such publica
tions as Vogue, Mademoiselle, 
Harp?rs Bazaar, House Beautiful, 
Town and Country, and Good 
Housekeeping can be purchased 
at a students rate. Orders can be 
placed with Janet Bishop, Barbara 
Casey, Mary Davey, Barbara Florschutz, Barbara Hudecek, Clare 
Lawler, Barbara Kerr, Grace 
Kirch, Henrietta Maus, Joan Mur
phy, Evelyn Thayer, Suzanne 
Ramsey, or Joanne Hurley.
For those who prefer to give 
gifts that can be enjoyed immedi
ately, the club suggests giving a 
delicious fruit cake, baked in our 
own Carnegie Tech kitchens.
While everyone sits around at^ 
those four annual momentous and 
despairing days, and wonders im
patiently why marks are taking so 
long, five machines are busy fig
uring out, much faster and more 
accurately than any human, the 
grades of Techs nearly three thou
sand students.
Before registering, every student 
has a master card made out on the 
key punch, a small, hand-operated 
machine similar to a typewriter. 
This card has the students name 
on it, printed above and punched 
in code on the body of the card. 
When the student has registered, 
this card, which has the alpha 
number punched into it, is used 
during-the subsequent operations.
The grade cards for the various 
classes are made out beforehand 
and from the rough duplicated 
sheets which each student fills out, 
the proper subject cards are se
lected. Each instructor fills out one 
of these cards for each of his stu
dents with a special pencil. These 
cards are mark sensed on the 
reproducerthat is, the grade of 
each course is punched on the 
cards. Again on the reproducer, 
the cards are sorted and gangpunched by grades and units with 
the aid of master cards represent
ing each grade and unit number 
for instance: A, 15 units, or B, 9 
units.
Alphabetically Sorted
From there the cards are sorted 
alphabetically by the alpha num
ber on the sorter and after that by 
college and class. These are then 
merged with the address cards on 
the collater and printed for both 
the permanent record and the re
port sent out, on the tabulator. 
These machines have thus tabu
lated all the grades on the stu
dents records and sorted them, all 
without error.
When the machines are finished 
with their job, which takes about 
two days, from 8:30 a.m. to 11:00 
p.m. each day, the grades are sent 
to the registrars office for the fac
tors to be calculated, the only part 
of the process which must be done 
by hand. It would be impractical 
and too expensive to rent a calcu
lator from IBM. It is easy to see 
then, that the whole process is ex
tremely lengthy and complicated,
HKN-AIEE-IRE 
Banquet Set
The honorary and professional 
organizations of the electrical en
gineering department will hold 
their semi-annual banquet tonight. 
Members of Eta Kappa Nu, elec
trical honorary, and the student 
chapter of the American Institute 
of Electrical Engineers will gather 
at the Faculty Club for a steak 
dinner at 6:00 p.m.
An interesting program has been 
planned, featuring an address by 
Mr. C. Bain, vice-president in 
charge of research for United 
States Steel, on the subject, A 
Research Project in Metallurgy. 
Dr. Williams, head of the depart
ment of electrical engineering, will 
serve as toastmaster.
The new members of Eta Kappa 
Nu will be presented after the 
dinner. Many favors from indus
trial firms will be distributed.
Tickets, costing $2.50, can be 
obtained from any officers of either 
organization.
WAA Plans 
Mid-Winter Social
WAA will have its annual mid
winter chocolate for active mem
bers on Thursday, January 13, 1955 
in Carnegie Union.
There will be fun, food, and 
frolic for all girls who have been 
active in WAA activities this 
semester.
Jean Ward, vice-president of 
WAA is in charge of all arrange
ments. Her committee chairmen 
are: Invitations  Sharon Lease; 
Food  Mickey Coyne; Program 
Joan Veleflt
and it is surprising that the IBM 
office can get grades out as quickly 
as it does.
Citcom Clan 
Plans Dance
Citcom Clan, the commuters or
ganization on campus, is again 
sponsoring its annual Christmas 
formal. The dance will be held in 
the Womens Gym on Friday, De
cember 17 at 9.00 p.m. The dance 
is semi-formal and tickets are 
priced at $1.50 per couple. Tickets 
are available from any of the or
ganizations board members.
Joe Harris and his band will 
play for the occasion. There are 
to be no flowers and any interest
ed students are invited to attend.
Citcom Clan has about 120 
members and holds general meet" 
ings each Wednesday afternoon at 
4:30 p.m. in Administration Hall 
132E.
Thistle
All students who have not 
picked up their 1954 Thistles 
must do so by the end of the 
week. Any Thistles not called 
for by this time will be re
sold. Arrangements may be 
made by calling James Plugge 
at MU 2-8768 sometime before 
Friday.
Carnegie Student 
Is WQED Program 
Manager For Shoiv
Mary B. Warden is a senior 
English major at Carnegie Tech 
who manages to attend classes and 
to hold down the voluntary posi
tions at station WQED of secre
tary to acting program manager 
John Ziegler and assistant pro
ducer on the Channel 13 book 
show, Cover To Cover.
One day last June she stopped 
into visit her friend, Alden Smith, 
in the traffic department of WQED 
and offered to staple some daily 
routine sheets that afternoon. She 
was so impressed with the set-up 
that she volunteered to help Alden 
with her office routine. By the 
end of the summer she was writ
ing continuity. During the Alle
gheny County Fair last September, 
Mary B. was a QED-ette (produc
tion assistant), and she acted as 
floor manager during the WQED 
telethon.
Having learned more and more 
about production, Mary B. became 
assistant producer of the magazine 
show, The Two Rs, in August, 
which in September became the 
Cover To Cover book show.
Mary B. attended Falk and Lin
den grade school in Pittsburgh 
and completed the junior high 
grades at Winchester-Thurston. 
She went away to school in her 
sophomore year and was gradu
ated from St. Annes School in 
Charlottesville, Virginia. In 1951 
she enrolled at Carnegie Tech 
and expects to graduate by June, 
1955.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
Hit the right note for the holidays   
in an ARROW
Formal shirt!
Youre bound to come on big in an 
ARROW formal shirt. They feature 
good looks for certain, and comfort 
always! Choose the Arrow Nassau 
(fine broadcloth), above, or the Ar
row Mayfair (smart piquet), below.
The choice is yours ... but be sure 
you choose Arrow. Youll hit just the 
right note on any formal occasion.
Both Arrow dress shirt styles re 
priced at 16.00.
A/WOWSHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  CASUAL WEAR
For Your ARROW Shirt and Tis
FRANK MEN'S WEAR
5816 FORBES STREET HA 1-9600 SQUIRREL HILL 
Open Tuesday and Thursday evenings

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 14, 1954
Editorial
Air Your Grip es
Imu di ni ad-by Mdt Bibfer
There are probably no more than a few 
students on the Tech campus who do not 
have a handful of gripes concerning condi
tions which abound on on campus. These 
complaints, although they get frequent airing 
over Skibo coffee, between classes and as 
topics of conversation at Harrys or The 
Greeks, seldom get solved since they are not 
expressed to the proper audiences.
Many of these student opinions no doubt 
are trivial matters and misconceptions which 
deserve permanent oblivion from the real 
world. However, many others, we believe, 
are well-founded and should be acted upon 
for the benefit of all concerned.
But here is where the trouble starts. Almost 
without exception, the persons with these com
plaints on their minds, either through lack of initia
tive, wisdom, or both, never go a step further than 
to moan to fellow students who have as little con
trol over matters as the complainer himself. Very 
seldom does a complaint ever reach the stage where 
the powers to be get a chance to exercise the au
thority vested in them.
By and large, the people who operate 
the strings are not quite so bigeted and un
reasonable as might be thought by the stu
dent body. For the most part they are cooperative and 
sympathetic and quite willing to look into problems brought 
to their attention. But it is the students responsibility to 
bring complaints to them for it is the students who live 
with the problems and are disturbed by them.
The heart of the whole problem probably is the lack of initia
tive which lies embedded in a general sluggishness which is all 
too prevalent at Carnegie.. Here the professional student ignores 
activities on the grounds that his school work is all-important. The 
full-time activities hound neglects his school work with a similar 
excuse. Neither group gives his complaints a fair chance.
Do you have a complaintsome pet peeve you would 
like to see corrected? If so, make your complaint heard as a 
first step toward correction, but make it heard by the right 
people not just by your fellow students. But who do I see 
you say? Here you have several choicesyour mentor if 
youre a freshman, Dean David, Dean Hackett, Dr. Minor, 
or the Bureau of Measurement and Guidance are probably 
the best bets. All are easy to talk to and and will give your
complaint all the attention it deserves.iRealizing that many of you will be reluctant to actually take 
problems or complaints to these men and realizing the power of the 
press, the TARTAN offers the following service. If you will drop us 
a letter covering your complaint we will ensure that it is brought 
to the administrations attention by one or more of the following 
manners:
1in editorial form
2as a letter to the editor
3as one of a detailed list which we will turn over to the 
administration for their attention.
In effect the Tartan will channel your complaints into 
the proper hands if you feel you can not do so by yourself 
or want the help of the press. Let us as students at least air 
our gripes; if unaired we can blame only ourselves if they are 
not corrected.--w.w.s.
The only' clue Ill give you is that it came from Skibo.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hours MUseum 3-2312, for advertising and subscription rates 
call MUseum 2-3990, Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ........................................................................................................Paul Carmichael
Executive Editor ................................................................................................................Wilson Sick
Business Manager ...................................................................................................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor ..................................................................................................................Jo Forsythe
News Editor ...................................................................................June Sochatoff
Sports Editor ................................................................................................................Lenny Feldman
Copy EditorBob Russell. Advertising ManagerMarty Ostroff. Assistant 
Business ManagerVic Shiry. Circulation ManagerDon Gross. Office Manager 
Joyce Wright. Photography EditorBarbara Toia. Features EditorJoe Szwec. 
ReportersMarilyn Casey, Stephanie Mackay. Anne Mehler, Pat Mitchell, Dottie 
Scarf, Joanne Babbitt, Marjo King, Arthur Marino, Barbara Robeson, Carolou 
Fidder, Sally Day. Peggy Heath. Dolores Chidester, Evelyn Alessio, Janet Bishop, 
Kay Meienyzer, Juli Wehousie. Sports StaffJames Lacey. Art StaffCarolyn 
Copp, Harold MacDonald, Robert Connell. Make-Up StaffTom Wright, Jack 
Becker, Paul Doebler, Hayden Duensing. Advertising StaffRobert Sorkin,  Harly 
Bernbach, Frank Zonis, Herbert Kriendler. Circulation StaffSheldon Cremer,
Barry Reisman. TypistsMary Langdon, Anne Barnes, Marjorie Forster. Copy 
RunnerRonald Kohl.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Port Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for maUing at special rate 
of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription 91.iv 
per year.
LetterVoting
Editor, the Tartan:
I should like to express my thanks to the staff 
members who were instrumental in publishing 
the views of the Student Council candidates. For
merly I faced the choice of voting for candidates 
on the basis of popularity and friendship or of not 
voting at all. This year my vote for popularity 
goes to the originator of the idea of publishing 
candidates statements, and my vote for Student 
Council goes to -those candidates whose views I 
support.
Sincerely yours,
James L. Morrison 
Physics, 56.
Over The Skibo Table
by Joseph A. Szewc
This bit of trite nonsense may be a little late 
in being printed, but since Military Ball queen elec
tions are over, no ones feeling should be hurt. 
You see, this hightly secretive information was 
developed in an engineering school other than Tech. 
It is essentially, with proper measurements being 
substituted, an overall measurement of a girls 
qualifications for becoming a queen. In other words, 
if a girl is queen material, her formula will work 
out to be equal to 2.115 or better.
At this time I would like to state publicly that 
I have had nothing to do with the development of 
this formula. I therefore am not liable to prosecu
tion nor am I responsible for any queens that do 
not match the equation. Furthermore, if you do 
meet all the qualifications and have not been elect
ed to her majestys throne, please do not blame 
me either.
The formula: (bust in inches/ waist in inches) 
x (height in inches/ weight in pounds + age ip 
years/ hips in inches -f- 1/ shoe size) equals or 
is greater than 2.115.* * *
Now that all the men have run out and bought 
their girls Christmas gift by using our gift sug
gestion list of last week, we shall now present our 
gift list of what to buy the man in your life. Here 
are gifts of exquisite, taste for the debonair, so
phisticated male; gifts which will blur his mind 
and make him fall madly in love with you; gifts 
that will make him retch.
For the man: 36 Dozen Handkerchiefs. Of the 
finest canvas, these hankies, gift wrapped in cello
phane, are of sturdy quality and lipstick resistant.
Three Monogrammed Razor Blades. Designed 
with the man in mind, these blades are guaranteed 
to him him think of you every day. In fact, hell 
probably call you sweet names every time he cuts 
himself.
A Directory of Morewood Gardens. The suit
able gift to let him know that youre through with 
him.
A Picture of Your Dog. Just to make him mad 
(the guy not the dog).
A Pack of Matches, nuff said,
A Tuxedo with Oversized Pockets. Just the 
thing for the male to carry your junk in at formats.
A Complete Set of Mickey Spillane. For the 
guy thats undersexed. With illustrations, these 
books are designed for the male whose techniques 
in kissing, etc, arent quite up to standard. A boon
3
The Observer
To Dr. Nikolai Lopatnikoff
Dr. Nikolai Lopatnikoff, distinguished, spectacled 
professor of composition on our Fine Arts campus 
heard his Symphony No. 3 performed for the 
first time last Friday night. William Steinberg un
dertook the responsibility, with Dr. Lopatnikoff, 
a xylophonist and Mr. Schneiderman, tympanist, 
taking bows. The Observer was therebut in a 
way he wishes he hadnt been.
Dr. Lopatnikoff and Dr. Roy Harris, P.C.W. 
composer-professor, both have had frequent occasion to take bows from the Mosque stage after 
hearing original compositions premiered by the 
Pittsburgh Orchestra. Saving both of these com
posers living and working within trumpet call of 
the Syria Mosque seems to be a happy circum
stances for inquisitive (skeptical?) concert-hoppers 
those interested in the why?s and "how 
come?s of these late compositionswho might pos
sibly wish to interview the composers. It is my 
opinion that if Dr. Lopatnikoffs symphony was 
capable of provoking an unanswered question in 
the mind of a typical concert-goer, he had better 
stake Keep Off The Grass signs about his Bart
lett Street home; crowds of the consternated shall 
be taking this advantage of his proximity be taking 
this advantage of his proximity and will be arriv
ing at his door shortly.
Here are a few questions, Dr. Lopatnikoff. All 
have resulted from a hearing of your 3rd.* Just 
what is it with you and Dr. Roy Harris?and Im 
not trying to be disrespectful, sir. Perhaps I may 
ask this rather presumptuous question begging 
license that might be the due of a non-compre
hending, classical engineer. At any rate, this is 
what I really mean, Dr. Lopatnikoff. Are you 
reacting to your environment? Are you demon
strating dissatisfaction with the expressive restric
tions of a neurotic, patterned, high-speed American 
society? May I assume that you are a musical 
non-conformer because in this way you can demand 
public attention with ease and thus may make an 
issue of your dissatisfaction?
It seems to me that there have been periods 
in the history of man during which equally re
strictive (if not moreso) societies have given the 
artist cause to issue manifestos of musical revolu
tion. (This is assuming that modern music re
flects an artists antagonistic approach to his so
ciety.) Perhaps the Martin Luther-Pope Leo period 
(which has been dramatized in the Martin Luther 
film) provides a good example. Surely, if musi
cians lived and composed during that period of 
feudal economy, amidst that mass of unrighteous 
church and state directives preaching the virtues 
of conformity, they would have experienced the 
desire to non-conformjust as you must have. Yet 
I cannot remember ever hearing the compositions 
of a musical rebel writing during that period, nor 
have I read of one. Is our period of history so 
different from analogous restrictive periods that 
a musician must react amelodically to be heard? 
(Perhaps non-conformers did compose during the 
Luther period, but subsequently have been for
gotten. If this is the case, and mans behavior 
patterns become cyclic over great periods of time, 
as James Joyce, some historians, etc., would have 
it, do you realize that you are writing music that 
similarly and ultimately will be forgotten? That 
isif you are a non-conformer of similar stamp 
and if musicians rebelling during the Luther period 
have been forgotten.) All of which demonstrates 
my lack of understanding concerning your music.
Do you feel that Beethoven and Brahms have 
exploited classical symphonic forms so thoroughly 
that no further expression of merit may be had 
from them? Do you feel that the closer modern 
music approximates classical forms the greater the 
realization that modern composers lack the under
standing necessary to cope with these forms? Do 
you feel that one cannot help but be a great authori
ty, a success, in a science one has created for 
himself and which no one else understands? Im 
sincere in my questions, sir.
Mr. Frederick Dorian says ifi the program notes 
to your 3rd Symphony: opatnikoffs architecture 
is one of economy. He will not use three notes if 
two suffice for what he has to say. What ARE 
you trying to say, Dr. Lopatnikoff? Why dont you 
use that 3rd note and let us achieve a little more 
understanding? Do modern composers wish to be 
understood? Are all of these pretentious program 
notes necessary if I am to dig meaning and pur
pose from your music?
Would you consider presenting a short explana
tion of factors motivating your particular approach 
to present-day musical composition?
I ask your indulgence in all of these ques
tions, sir.
for the girl in the long run, these books should be 
considered an investment and not just a gift.
An Everfilling Bottle of Gin. (Bet you thought 
we didnt have anything pratical in mind, when we 
wrote this column.)
Have a cool Yule and a frantic First.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 14, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage f
FINER
FILTER!
Tech Five Drops Two, 
Penn State, Dukes Win
States Arnelle Scores 35 Points, 
Ricketts Leads Dukes With 32
A scrappy Tech quintet traveled 
up to State Colleke to play the 
Nittany Lions. The Plaid jump
ing jacks again gave an excel
lent account of themselves, keep
ing the score down to 38-37 at 
half time, despite the efforts of 
big Jesse ^Arnelle.
The second half saw the score 
see-saw back and forth ten times 
before the Lions wire able to 
muster up a sizeable lead for their 
margin of victory. What had start
ed out as a foul-shooting contest 
developed into a give-and-go 
scoring spree, Techs favorite of
fense. But the Tartans had trouble 
keeping its full strength on the 
iloor as Ralph Mocker, A1 Frank 
and Bill Dosey left the game via 
the personal foul route.
Height Disadvantage 
Tech again was at a height dis
advantage, as they probably wiH 
be all season long, and they
PENN STATE
G F Pts Wdhmer, f 8 1 17
Hoffman, f 6 6 18Edwards, f 0 1 1
Arnelle, c 12 11 35 
Rosland, c 2 0 4 Fields, g 3 3 9
Marisa, g 10 2
Blocker, g Oil 
Hartnett, g 1 2 4
CARNEGIE TECH 
G F Pts 
Fieler, f 5 0 10
Boyd, f 3 13 19
Goetz, f 0 2 2Soblwski, f 0 
Frank, c 3 
Mocker, g 2 
Dosey, g 5
Miller, g 2
Nthnsn, g 1
0 0 7 13
4 8
5 15 
2 6 
0 2
Totals 21 33 75 Totals 33 25 91 
Half time score: Penn State 38, Carnegie Tech 37.
Free Throws missedBoyd 6, Goetz 4, 
Sobolewski 2, Frank 3, Mocker, Dosey, 
Miller, Nathanson 4, Weidenhammer 4, 
Edwards, Arnelle 10, Rosland, Fields 2, Blocker 2, Hartnett.
OfficialsSmith and Reider.
couldnt hold Arnele down. Arn
elle, who is a six foot six inch 
powerfully built center, is espe
cially strong under the boards. 
His shooting efforts were reward
ed with twelve field goals, which 
is more than half of the total 
scored by the whole Tech team. 
Big Jesse also hit eleven times 
from the foul line for a total of 35 
points. Amelles board work com
bined with outside shooting by
Hoffman and Weidenhammer was 
enough to set Tech down with its 
third loss. Hoffman and Weiden
hammer scored 18 and 17 points, 
respectively.
Boyd was high man for the 
Plaid quintet with 19 points, 13 of 
them from the charity line. Bill 
Dosey was runnerup with five 
field goals and five fouls for 15 
points. The Tartans shooting from 
the foul line was again fairly poor 
as they missed 2,2 free throws.
Duquesne 72, Tech 52
Playing one of the top ranked 
teams in the country, Tech was 
handily whipped by their neigh
bors from down the street, Du
quesne, 72-52, as Dick Ricketts and 
company showed a home television 
crowd and a handful of rooters that 
the Dukes still have what it takes.
The Bluffiites Dandy Dick led 
both 'teams in scoring with 34 
points on 11 baskets and 12 free 
throws out of 12 attempts for a 
sensational evening. A1 Frank was 
high man for the Tartans, con
tributing 18 points to help avert a 
complete rout.
Tech jumped off to a 4-2 lead, 
but the roof fell in as the Dukes 
tallied 12 straight points. Ricketts 
led the attack with three buckets 
and a pair of fouls.
The Dukes then matched Tech 
point for point, and the half ended 
35-18, favor of Duquesne. Ricketts 
accounted for 18 points; the same 
number as the whole Tartan squad.
The second half followed the 
same pattern as .the first, with 
Tech hopelessly outclassed, and 
Ricketts still pouring the ball 
through the hoop, scoring 16 more. 
Moore, trying to whip his boys into 
shape, kept the first team in the 
game most of the way, with Rick
etts staying in the game until near 
the end.
Baker Signs 
Five Year Pact
Dr. Baker, who came to Tech 
from down the street aways, and 
coached Techs first undefeated 
football team, signed a five-year 
contract. This was the first con
tract for Doc Baker, who has 
been here sinc% 1948 without one.
Since coming to Tech, Baker has 
managed to maintain the Plaid as 
a power in Class B circles without 
the benefit of an all-out scholar
ship program. His coaching record 
is quite a good one, with Tech win
ning 33 games, losing 12, and tieing two. The rest of the coaching 
staff, which consists of Eddie 
Hirshberg, A1 Irwin, Jesse Quatse, 
and Walter Burns are expected to 
come into the fold soon, too.
1955 Schedule 
Athletic Director Mel Cratsley 
released the 1955 football schedule 
having added three different teams 
to last years schedule. Dickinson, 
Franklin and Marshall and Tem
ple replaced Edinboro, Geneva and 
Lehigh, who were dropped because 
of scheduling difficulties.
The four home games will be 
Lafayette, Temple, Franklin and 
Marshall and Westminster, with 
Franklin and Marshall as the 
Homecoming opponent.
The schedule:
Oct. 1Lafayette
8At Johns Hopkins 
15At Dickinson 
22Temple
29At Washington and Jef
ferson
5Franklin and Marshall 
At St. Vincent 
Westminster
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Nov. 
Nov. 12 
Nov. 19
Swimming Schedule
Dec.14Slippery Rock
Jan.5Indiana S. T. C.
Jan.8*West Virginia
Jan.12Westminster
Jan.15*Kent State
Feb.5?Indiana S. T. C.
Feb.11Case
Feb.12Oberlin
Feb.19*Penn
Feb.23* Grove City
Feb.26W. & J.
Mar.1Allegheny
Mar.5Penn-Ohio Meet at
Grove City
Mermen Open Season; 
To Face Slippery Rock
This afternoon, the Carnegie Tech mermen will open 
the 1954-55 swimming season as they travel to Slipper;/ Rock 
to meet the Rockets. The Teachers edged past the Plaid 
aquamen in last years season opener. Techs last seasons
record was three wins and seven ?---------------------------------------------------
losses after having won 14 dual
meets in the three previous years 
and wearing the Penn-Ohio crown 
for three years.
This year the Tartan mermen 
are ready to get back in the thick 
of the fighting for the Penn-Ohio 
crown and better last years rec
ord with last years aggregation 
being strengthened with eight 
freshmen.
Composing the nucleus of the 
team are five returning lettermen. 
Captain Bill Aiken competes in 
the orthodox breaststroke and the 
opening medley, while Bob Coul
ter, who holds the team back
stroke record, will compete in his 
specialty and the opening medley. 
Coulter is a three year letterman, 
and he and Aiken compose twothirds of the medley relay team 
that has been undefeated in the 
last three years.
Other returning lettermen are 
Jim Feldman, who swims the 50 
and 100 yard freestyle dashes and 
relay, Bob Locke, 220 and 440 
yard freestyler, and Dave Shuck, 
also a 220 and 440 yard freestyle
swimmer.
Three freshmen who look like 
they will help the team imir.easurebaly are Mike I.itch, Frank 
Shuck, brother of Dave Shuck, 
and Tony Chamay. Litch, who is 
from Honolulu and swam for one 
of the high schools whose main 
emphasis was on swimming, is a 
freestyle and breaststroke swim
mer. Shuck is a backstroker who 
shows signs of promise, having 
exhibited very good form in prac
tice. With some conditioning and 
competition he should be of great 
help to the team. Tony Chamay 
is also a promising freestyler and 
should help the team in an event 
that they are weak in.
Others returning for another 
chance to earn a varsity letter are 
Harry Doukakis, John Goughnour, 
Dave Harrington, Bob Shields, 
and Dick Shipley, who thus far 
has looked very good in practice 
and in a pre-season meet against 
Pitt. Other freshmen out for the 
team are Gary Benton, Jim Hagan, 
Dick Leonard, Joe Mitchel, and 
Merle Steir.
WAA To Begin Hoop Playoffs
The games in both WAA basketball leagues thus far have been 
hard fought and close, for the most part. The Dorm team and the 
Faculty are leading their respective leagues with 3-0 records. The 
Dorm team squeezed by the Chi Os by three points on Tuesday 
night. The next hour there was a4 ------------------------------------------------
battle between KKG and KAT, 
finally won by KKG. On Thursday 
the Chi Os beat the Tri-Delts to 
clinch second place, while Delta 
Gamma held second place by beat
ing KAT.
In the Scot League the YWCA 
team and the Citcom entry have
lost their standings because their 
games were forfeited. The game 
yet to be played is Tri-Delt vs. 
Dorm team. After these games, 
playoffs between the two leagues 
will be held to determine the 
championship.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
New filter cigarette brings 
flavor back to filter smoking!
WINSTON... the easy-drawing filter cigarette!
Winston tastes goodlike a cigarette should!
m
 Now theres a filter smoke 
college men and women can really 
enjoy! Its Winston, the new, 
king-size, filter cigarette with real 
'full, rich, tobacco flavor!
Youre bound to enjoy Winstons 
finer flavor. And youre sure to 
appreciate Winstons finer filter. 
This exclusive filter is unique, 
different, truly superior! It works 
so effectivelyyet doesnt thin* 
the taste. Winstons are kingsize for extra filtering action. 
Easy-drawing, tootheres no 
effort to puff!
Try a pack of Winstonsthe filter 
cigarette that brings flavor back 
to filter smoking!

---------------------------------------------------

All-Stars Picked 
MVP To Muller
Tartan League
EndPuchy, SAE 
EndMuller, ATO 
CenterAspell, KS 
BackFedor, SAE 
BackBartocci, ATO 
BackKeyser, KS
Kiltie League
EndAnderson, TX 
EndCunningham, DTD 
CenterKummer, DTD
BackLaughery, DTD 
BackArdinger, TX 
BackWilson, DTD
Skibo League
EndBorza, Obelisks 
EndSaro, SN 
CenterBrown, SN 
BackRobbins, DU 
BackBranscombe, DU 
BackGesualdi, Obelisks
The Tartan League, which was 
the strongest football league this 
year, placed five men on the 
mythical six man squad. John 
Muller and Bart Bartocci of the 
ATOs were named to the end 
and backfield portions, respect
ively, with the SaEs contributing 
the other end, Puchy, and Fedor 
to the backfield. Rounding out 
the sextet were Joe Robbins, DU 
field general, and Bill Aspell, 
center from KS.
Muller Wins MVP 
In the balloting for the most 
valuable player, John Muller 
edged past Mike Fedor and Joe 
Robbins, who were tied for 
runnerup honors. Muller shone 
both on offense and defense, 
especially in the league and school 
playoff games, and the post season 
games with Duquesne and Pitt.
Second Team Named 
A second team was also named 
this year, with the KSs contri
buting three men, the Delts two, 
and the TXs one. Pascarella and 
Keyser were named for the back
field and Hyams was named as 
one of the ends. The Delts added 
their backfield ace to the sextet, 
Laughery, and Kummer as the 
center. The other end position was 
filled by Anderson of TX.
In addition to the all-school 
teams the following all-star teams 
were picked from each of the 
three leagues.
HURRY AND SAVE
Special On Used Tuxedos, Dinner Jackets, 
Shirts and Accessories 
LIMITED STOCK 
Tuxedos As Low As $1.5 Per Suit
Compare This To Price Of A Rental
Pictured above is the ATO intramural football team, which won 
the all-school championship, then become runners up for all city 
honors.
Pitt Downs AT Os F or City T itle 
After ATOs Beat Dukes 38-27
Route 30, Lincoln Highway
1 MILE EAST OF EAST McKEESPORT 
NEXT TO LIGHTHOUSE
V Alley 3-8042
J.UCKV DROODJ.ES ? 00Pi.ES !
Bowling
The bowling season got under
way at the University Alleys with 
the first 200 game being turned in 
by Joe Kleiman of Tau Delta Phi, 
a 223. Kleiman also turned in high 
total pins with a 551 series. Max 
McConomy of Phi Kappa also ; 
turned in a 500 series524. High 
team honors were captured by 
ATO with a 790, individual 
game, and ^ 2239 total. The Delts 
were one pin behind with 2238.
Volleyball
The regular play of the volley
ball season has been completed 
with the playoffs now in progress. 
The first two teams of each league 
are playing off with the first team 
in each league meeting the second 
team of another league.
The first round pits the KS A 
against ATO B, TX vs ATO 
A, PK A vs Faculty Bulldogs, 
SAE A vs the winner of the 
second place playoff in the Skibo 
league which involves SN A, 
Obelisks, and PK B.
CONTOUR CHAIR 
FOR INDIAN FAKIRSRichard S. Nelson Creighton University
CENTER LINE ON MOUNTAIN 
ROAD PAINTED BY NAN 
WALKING BACKWARDSPhilip Wagher 
Western Illinois State College
WHATS THIS? For solution see paragraph below.
Tartan
ATO .................
Faculty Bulldog
BSR ..................
SAE ...................
PKA ................
TDP .................
EATEN T-BONE STEAKJudy Magaram U.C.L.A.
BULLET HOLES FROM 
SQUARE SHOOTERAllan Freund 
Michigan Normal
OX MAKING OXTAIL SOUPAlfred J. Farina 
Hunter College
Kiltie
ITS A FACT! College smokers prefer Luckies to all other 
brandsand by a wide marginaccording to the latest, 
greatest coast-to-coast college survey. The No. 1 reason: 
Luckies taste better. They taste better, first of all, because 
Lucky Strike means fine tobacco. Then, that tobacco is 
toasted to taste better. Its Toastedthe famous Lucky 
Strike processtones up Luckies light, good-tasting tobacco 
to make it taste even better. Now for the Droodle above, 
titled: Inept smoke ring blown by ept smoker. Hes ept, of 
course, because he smokes Luckies. Be ept yourself and enjoy 
the better-tasting cigarette . . . Lucky Strike.
(LUCKY1.
-trike]
SkiboLucky Droodles* are pouring in! Where are yours? We pay $25 for all we use, and for many we -don't use. So send  very original Droodle in your noodle, with its descriptive title, to Lucky Droodle, P.O. Box 67, New York 46, N. Y.
DBOOBLKS, Copjrrtgtit 195#
KS A 
SN A
Obelisks 
PK B 
EE-ME
ATO C
Pipers
SAE BATO  B 
DTD . . .
Citcom 
BTP ...Beftea tafiteLUCKIES TASTE BEIER
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS 
 TRY US FIRST 
Oakland Hardware
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
SMOOTHER!
AMERICAS LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTEPRODUCT or

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 14, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage T
ryw.w(
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor...........................................................................................Dolores Neff
Managing Editor ..................................................................... Victor Sabol
Circulation Manager ...................................................;.........James Soltis
Reporters ........................................... Kathy Galligan, Edna Thorwart
Evening Council Plans 
Christmas Assembly
Evening Student Council will hold their annual Christmas As
sembly on Friday, December 17, 1954 in the Carnegie Theatre in 
the Fine Arts building. Evening classes will be suspended from 8:00 
to 8:50 p.m. in order to permit undergraduate students and faculty 
to attend. The following schedule will be observed:
Regular Time of Dismissing and 
Periods Reconvening of Classes
6:30- 8:30
7:00- 8:30 Dismiss at 8:00 
7:30- 8:30
6:30-10:30
7:00-10:30
7:30-10:30
7:30-10:30
8:30- 9:30 
8:30-10:00 
8:30-10:30
Dismiss at 8:00 
Reconvene at 8:50
Convene at 8:50
Dr. J. C. Warner will be the 
guest speaker at this assembly. A 
short prayer will be offered by 
Mr. Sam Gibson, religious co-or
dinator. Jack McMinn, baritone, 
will offer three selections, accom
panied by Mr. W. E. Bretz. Therq 
will be group carol singing led 
by Phi Gamma Pi.
Day school students and faculty 
are welcome.
English Course 
Is Now Offered
As we announced last week, a 
new English literature course will 
be offered to evenihg school stu
dents next semester. A varied and 
interesting selection of novels, ob
tainable in inexpensive pocket edi
tions, will be discussed by Mr. 
Beekman W. Cottrell, instructor in 
the department of English.
Some of the novels to be read 
and discussed include: Tono-Bun
gay by H. G. Wells; The Sun Also 
Rises by Ernest Hemingway; Ap
pointment in Samarra by John 
OHara; Women in Love by D. H. 
Lawrence; In Dubious Battle by 
John Steinbeck; and Light in Au
gust by Faulkner.
Mr. Cottrells wide and varied 
experiences will make his discus
sions of these and other novels full 
of interest for every student.
Bowling Party Set 
By Newman Club
The Newmanites have planned a 
post-Christmas bowling party that 
promises to be second to none. 
This social event will take place on 
Tuesday, December 28, 1954 at the 
University Bowling Alleys at 8:30 
p.m. The University Alleys are lo
cated on Craig Street between 
Forbes Street and Fifth Avenue.
Immediately after the final 
strikes and gutter-balls have 
been thrown, a gala party will fol
low. The entire program is open 
to members and non-members and 
a full evening of fun and frolic is 
anticipated.
Come one, come all, and have a ball.
University Bowling Alleys
on Craig St. off Forbes 
OPEN NALLEYS ON 
SATURDAY and SUNDAY
Coming Soon! 
January 11 
Is the Day
Point Key Totals 
Are Announced For 
Tivo SC Functions
The following is a list of points 
earned to late toward an insignia 
award key by those who have 
worked for the Evening Student 
Council on the square dance and 
the Monte Carlo.
Walt Bachmayer .......................................... 2
Matt Bertovich ...........................................34 V2
George Bogovich ............. ..........................8 VaBill Bond ........................................................ 2
Floyd Byers .....................................................14Lois Conley ................................................. */2
Noreen Conley ........................................
Ralph Czemek .........................................12 Va
Ed Daly ......................................................... 9
John Elias ....................................................... 2
Kathy Galligan .............................................. 8
Patt Garrity .................................................. 1Dave Gartner ................................................ 1
Vince Golobic ............................................. 9Ellen Gonter ..................................................... 6
BiU Groll ..........................................................15Dee Hoffer ....................................................... 2
L,. Janicek ...................................................IOV2
Charles Keller ...................................... 5
Ray Klimas . ............................... 5
Lydia Liston ............................................. 7 ViElvira Loreski ........................................ 3Mel Lux .......................................................... 2
J. Mack .......................................................I2V2
L. Manion ................................................ 5Vs
B. May ............................................................36
Emily Muhic .....................................................12
Dolores Neff ...............................................1V2
Mary Alice Peterson ....................................10
Frank Polma .............................................12 V2
Ken Pore .................................................. 7 Vz
Nancy Primovich ....................................... 2
Pat Renkawek ................................................13Gini Ross ........................................................ 5
Vic Sabol ...................................................131/2
Will Scharenberger....................................... 1
Ray Schwalm .................................................11
Jim Soltis ........................................................ 2Andy Spizak .................................................... 1
Lillian Staub .......................................... 4V2
Harry Thom .............................................. 6 Vi
Edna Thorwart .............................................. 7
Jean Woods ............................................I6.V2
Student Counci 
Initiates Six
The Evening Student Council is 
happy to report that at their De
cember 5 meeting, six new mem
bers were accepted into the Coun
cil. These new members are: Em
ily Muhic, Vince Golobic, Joan 
Mack, Ed Daly, Marilyn Darrah 
and Jack Fisher.
Plans were discussed concern
ing the Sweetheart Dance to be 
held on February 12. Baron Elliott 
will be on hand to supply the mu
sic. There will be more informa
tion about the dance after the holi
days.
Chairman Names 
Members To Aid 
In Dinner Program
The chairman of the banquet 
committee, Frank Polma, an
nounced the members of his com
mittee for this affair. Their names 
and functions are as follows: Ralph 
Czernek, coordinator and adver
tising; Vince Golobic, ticket sales; 
Edward Daly and Raymond Kli
mas, entertainment. These men 
have been handpicked carefully 
for their ability, popularity and 
reputation as hard workers.
William E. Rudge 
Scholarship Given 
To Carnegie Tech
Dean Glen U. Cleeton, head of 
the school of printing manage
ment, was a visitor to New York 
in connection with a dinner ar
ranged by present ana former 
employees of the Printing House 
of William Edwin Rudge and 
successor firms, which was held at 
the Advertising Club, 23 Park 
avenue, Wednesday evening, De
cember 8, to honor the memory 
of William E. Rudge. He had a 
major role in raising the profes
sional and artistic standards of 
commercial printing in this coun
try.
At the dinner Dean Cleeton ac
cepted, on behalf of Carnegie 
Tech, the Geffen, Dunn & Com
pany scholarship, established as 
a memorial to William Rudge, 
which will provide $500 a year for 
a student of printing manage
ment. Greater New York students 
qualified for college entrance are 
being especially invited o con
sider applying for the scholarship.
Test Drive The New 
1955 FORD
Convince yourself of superiority
See Wally Donoghue
103 Welch  MU 8-0242
PANKOFF FORD
/ENGINEERS\
/\
or
\
\
PHYSICS GRADUATES
To those interested in advanced academic 
study while associated with important research and 
development in industry, Hughes offers 
^ two separate practical programs :
/
/
HUGHES j
I
COOPERATIVE j
IFELLOWSHIP 
PROGRAM
fir
Master of 
Science 
Degrees
HOW TO APPLY
A program to assist outstanding 
individuals in studying for the 
Master of Science Degree while 
employed in industry and making 
contributions to important military 
work. Open to students who will 
receive the B.S. degree in Electrical 
Engineering, Physics or Mechanical 
Engineering during the coming 
year, and to members of the Armed 
Services honorably discharged and 
holding such B.S. degrees. As many 
as 100 Fellowships will be awarded 
each year.
Candidates must meet entrance 
requirements for advanced study 
at the University of California 
at Los Angeles or the University 
of Southern California. Participants 
will work full time during the 
summer in the Hughes Laboratories 
and 25 hours per week wrhile pur
suing a half-time schedule of 
graduate study at the university.
Salary is commensurate with the 
individuals ability and experience. 
Tuition, admission fees and books 
for university attendance are pro
vided. Provision is made to assist in 
paying travel and moving expenses 
from outside Southern California.
for the Hughes Cooperative Fellowship 
Program: Address all correspondence 
to the Committeefor Graduate Study
University of Southern California University of California at Los Angeles
THE
HOWARD
HUGHES
FELLOWSHIPS
in
Science
and
Engineering
HOW TO APPLY
Eligible for these Fellowships are 
those who have completed one year 
of graduate study in physics or 
engineering. Successful candidates 
must qualify for graduate standing 
at the California Institute of Tech
nology for study toward the degree 
of Doctor of Philosophy or post
doctoral work. Fellows may pursue 
graduate research in the fields of 
physics or engineering. During 
summers they will work full time 
in the Hughes Laboratories in 
association with scientists and engi
neers in their fields.
Each appointment is for twelve 
months and provides a cash award 
of not less than $2,000, a salary of 
not less than $2,500, and $1,500 for 
tuition and research expenses. A 
suitable adjustment is made when 
financial responsibilities of the Fel
low might otherwise preclude par
ticipation in the program. For those 
coming from outside the Southern 
California area provision is made 
for moving and transportation 
expenses.
for the Howard Hughes Fellowships in 
Science and Engineering: Address all 
correspondence to the Howard Hughes 
Fellowship Committee
California Institute of Technology
/ HUGHES \
{ RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT )
^ LABORATORIES J
\ Culver City, Los Angeles County, California /

---------------------------------------------------

= -, - - 
Pagre 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 14, 1954
Pitt Game iUncle VanyaWeberBertTaha^Breaks' Looser''
With the beginning of th<; 
ond half, F^tt added two fc 
their score anfi^l&en excr 
baskets* with" Tecik^ makff 
score 38-30, Playing a-^delit 
game, and waiti 
the Ta*tanp sfca 
1 * s
T,
Id
RSthe c 
his us
the oufsidi 
curacy, 
defense ai 
mistakes, 
routed thi 
Boyd, and Frank,- 
and Dose glutting 
side, and 
good job 
from the 
completely
Boyd sta: 
off with a 
and sank rasffr 
dropped ii 
drove in fol 
in a jump shot, 
another set throi 
Dosey ended the 
With a set from the 
pair of fouls.
Pitt Rally
This was just a little too much 
for Pitt, who never quite recover
ed from the shock, though they 
did make it close at the end. They 
brought the score up to 71-67 
when big Ed Pavlick, Pitts high 
scorer, took matters into his own 
hand and dropped in a basket and 
three foul shots. Tech then pulled 
away on eight foul shots as Pitt 
put on an all court press, with two 
shots by Frank, four by Dosey, 
and two by Charley Goetz, to win 
79-67.
Senior Bill Dosey led both 
teams with 20 points, closely fol
lowed by Pitts Joe Fenwick with 
19. Allan Frank and Ralph Mock
er garnered 16 points each for 
Tech and Ed Pavlick was held to 
15 points.
I] [Continued from page 2J
sound lack Shaheen. Stage 
rarpent^^s Barry Buchter, with 
homas JPincu, Steve Arnold and 
avidj^ifintz as his assistants. The 
ligfetipi crew includes Richard 
n. Robert Fields, Bill Gray, 
le Howard. Frances Jungk, 
Carter and^-fli^rrie Pierce, 
o^rties aBe%imii|g handled by 
Sausamae/ Isisied by Haras|aw Levycky, 
eadolyn Sheffeyl %>ndjgp^irkah, f>salyn l^ewJrt. DoSScyHart. /Joan Kugell 
ecial projects 
c/re of by Leo 
gyear, Roger 
onan, Sue SpecKaskoJ 
icia 
Sfcandj 
DrMFjr
d(
eing -ilki 
r, *,Bi 
Barbal
ra^chul^and Marshallro7\ mar 
Booth,
DoinaLJRi paintine if or the productimjfare Ma$r Weaver, Ursula 
A/onJJwsky, Arnold Brockman, 
Baircj* Dorothy and Charles 
Ish, Jucfith Dunkle, Daniel 
Valker, Dick Brown, Jim Goldswig, Clyde Sharp, and Judy 
Launt. John Conboy will serve as 
house manager and Sandra Boikan 
as head usher. 3
Tamed Cats!
TECH I  PITT
Fieler, i 
Boyd, 
Frank, c 
Mocker, g 
Dosey, g 
Miller, g 
Goetz, i
G F Pi G3 4 10! Pavlick, f 6
2 3 7i Riser, f 3
4 8 16Lazor, e 68 0 16 Fenwick, g 8
4 12 20'Zimmovan, g 5
0 2 21 Lewis, g 03 2 8 Lepkowski. c 0
Tait, f 0
'Show, g 0iResutek, g 0
iDuesell, c 0
24 31 79 28 11 67
Tech 28 5179
Piti " 34 3369
Personal fouls: Tech (17) 
Mocker 5, Boyd 4, Fieler 3, Goetz 
3, Dosey, Miller.
Pitt (28)Riser 5, Fenwick 5, 
Zimmovan 5, Pavlick 4, Lazor 4, 
Tait 2. Lewis 2, Resutek.
Missed free throws: Tech (19) 
Frank 6, Boyd 5, Dosey 3, Goetz 3, 
Fieler 2: Pitt (14) Pavlick 6, 
Riser 5, Fenwick, Zimmovan, Tait.
Referee: Cliff Flair; Umpire:
Joe Zerilla.
Assembly 
[Continued from page 1] 
dent Chorus also performed under 
the direction of music Professor 
Roland Leich and student directors, 
Philip Inman and Paul Weber. 
They sang A Night In Bethlehem 
and the Wassail Song.
Midway in the service, the au
dience heard a Christmas message 
from Carnegie Tech President, Dr. 
J. C. Warner.
The prayer was led by Professor 
H. K. Kirkpatrick of Techs Eng
lish department. Festival Tocatta, an organ postlude, conclud
ed the service. Edmund Ladouceur, 
a senior in the music department, 
was at the organ.
Tartan
There will be no issue of 
the TARTAN for the next 
three weeks due to the 
Christmas vacation. The next 
issue will appear on January 
11.
(UDQIE BRENDEL
1216 Wood Run Ave.
off Hrifhton
Dancing Frida? and Saturday 
Jack Mahon and Orchestra
;
Theftg
Peculiar to this season of the 
year, thefts and attempted 
thefts of college and 'personal 
property increase to a high* de
gree. Therefore, students are 
cautioned to pretect valuables.
[Continued from page 1] 
Kelly, Alan Margolin, Robert 
Marik, Melvin Mister, Frank Mozina, Robert Nagle, Harold Norrish, Thomas Owczarak, John 
Roder, Jay Schwarz, Peter Smith, 
Richard Tauson, Edward VanEman, John Wesner, Stanley 
Zionts.
James Crawford, Captain of 
Scabbard and Blade, called the 
following men to membership: 
Kurt Grunert, James Boyd, Thom
as Mock, Stephen Mapes, Bartley 
Osborne, John Daugherty, John 
Herr, John Senko, William Moore, 
Carl Jones, Lawrence Kronenberger, Joseph Swoboda, Jerome 
Wojtas, George Lang, John Recker, Eugene McElhinny, Kenneth 
Draper, Paul Borland, Richard 
Pape.
Party
The Secretarial Club will 
have it annual Christmas 
party on Wednesday, Decem
ber 15 at 3:30 In the Rec. Hall 
of MMCC.
There will be entertainment 
and fun for everyone.
Warner[Continued from page 1] 
tute planned a major expansion of 
its graduate program in 1945, 
Dr. Warner was appointed dean 
of graduate studies in the College 
of Engineering and Science, and 
two years later he assumed addi
tional responsibilities as assistant 
director of the College of Engi
neering and Science. He became 
president of Carnegie Tech in 
1950.
Active In Society
Long active in the affairs of the 
American Chemical Society, Dr. 
Warner, in addition to his term as 
chairman of the Pittsburgh Sec
tion, has been a member of the so
cietys national council since 1937. 
A director-at-large since 1948, he 
was chairman of the boards pub
lications committee from 1950 to
1953, when he became chairman 
of the finance committee.
Dr. Warner is a member of the 
board of directors of the Jones & 
Laughlin Steel Corporation, and 
is well known for his active par
ticipation in Pittsburgh affairs, 
as a bank director and in com
munity development committee 
work and civic drama, opera and 
symphony associations.
The American Chemical Society, 
with more than 72,000 member 
chemists and chemical engineers, 
is the world's largest professional 
association of scientists. There are 
21 scientific and technical divi
sions of the society in the various 
fields of chemical science and in
dustry and 147 local sections in 
all states of the Union and in 
Puerto Rico and Hawaii. The so
ciety has its national headquarters 
at 1155 Sixteenth street, N. W.t 
Washington 6, D. C.
ce
e Fltufcnrffc 1, r*.
