Scotch and Soda's 
1953 Show 
Doubly Successful 
See pagea 2
VOL, 46No. 25
PanHell Workshop 
Planned 
For Tomorrow NifeN 
See page 4
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., MAY 12, 1953
A TO Takes Buggy And Float Firsts
Dr. Teare To Succeed 
Jones As E&S Dean
Dean of Graduate Studies, Dr. Richard B. Teare, Jr., has been 
appointed new dean of Engineering and Science. He replaces Dr. 
Webster N. Jones, who recently became Techs first Vice-President. 
Dr. Teare came to Tech in 1939; he was formerly head of the
* department
neering. A 
Teare has made
Dean B. ow Teare
New E&S Head
Honorary Degree 
To Be Presented
Audiences at the 1953 Com
mencement this June are in for a 
surprise: an honorary degree is to 
be conferred by Carnegie Tech. 
Although this is a fairly regular 
occurrence at many schools, Tech 
is not in the habit of giving such 
honors freely.
The name of the recipient pannot be revealed at present, al
though it may be said that he, or 
she, will be one of the few peo
ple who hold an honorary degree ! 
from CIT.
of electrical engiBuhl professor, Dr. 
many improve
ments and innovations at Tech.
The new E&S dean is responsi
ble for the development of the en
gineering analysis courses, a new 
method of integrating engineering 
teaching.
Dr. Teare was also awarded the 
American Society for Engineering 
Education citation for the most 
outstanding teacher.
The basic course  committee 
was developed by Dr. Teare to co
ordinate basic courses, such as 
physics and math, that are requir
ed during the first two years.
Dr. Teare received his B.S. and 
M.S. from the University of Wis
consin in 1927 and 1928, respec
tively. Gaining his D. Eng. at Yale 
University, he then went on to be
come assistant professor of elec
trical engineering at Yale.
36 Activity Keys Given On Call Day By Student Council
Student Council awarded 36 
1953 activities keys at last Fri
days Spring Carnival Call Day. 
Making the calls was Carol Moberg, who announced the follow
ing as recipients: Jerry Adler, 
John Alexander, Jack Armour, 
William Brown, Ronald Curhan, 
Frederick Dill, Phil Drew, Dick 
Durstine, Phil Eckman, Dick 
Franklin, Ron Friedman, Carroll 
Gantz, Larry Glavin, Dick Goss, 
Jewel Hairston, and John Higgin
botham.
Len Hvizdos, Beverly Kaplan, 
Dick Kendrick, Dale Kirkbride, 
John Laynor, John McNaugher, 
Pat Miller, Earl Moses, Tom Na
than, Bill Prey, Nancy Rausch, 
Raynor Sebulsky, James Seibert, 
Marilyn Seiner, Bill Smith, John 
Tancill, Norma Trust, Richard 
Waitzer, Elmer Veres, and Sally 
Weet.
Lou Rocks Crowned 
Queen At Call Day
Phi Kappa Named Tops In Buggy Design; 
DTD Second in Race; SN In Float Parade
Alpha Tau Omega copped double Carnival interfraternity honors 
this year, placing first in the pushmobile race and the float parade. 
Phi Kappa took top awards for buggy design, followed by Delta 
Tau Deltas design. * ~
Mary Lou Rocks, senior secre
tarial major from New Castle, 
was crowned queen of the 1953 
Spring Carnival by President J. 
C. Warner at the Call Day exer
cises on Friday afternoon. Mem
bers of the queens court were 
Mary Jane Troop, Lynda Cooper, 
Nancy Callaway, and Sally Mil
ler. The Queen and her court were 
elected by the male student body 
of Tech.
As queen, Mary Lou reigned
Thistle
There are a number of sen
iors who have not paid the 
balance of their THISTLE 
payment. These delinquents 
are requested to do so before 
the end of the year. Send all 
checks to the Thistle, Car
negie Union, Forbes St., Pgh. 
13, Pa.
THE CORONATION
Photo by Lewis
Draft Notice
The following information is furnished for the guidance of 
those Carnegie Tech students who are subject to call by Selective 
Service, and w'ho plan to continue in school next year as full
time students, either at Carnegie or elsewhere.
Although the local boards are guided by general directives 
from national headquarters, the decision as to whether a stu
dent is to be deferred is the prerogative of each local board. 
In general, class standing and test score (Selective Service col
lege qualification test) are used as the bases for considering de
ferment requests. Test scores are reported directly to local boards 
by Educational Testing Service and not to Carnegie Tech. Class 
standings are reported by Carnegie Tech to the local board on 
Selective Service form 109. The form 109 is not considered as a 
request for deferment, however; it is necessary for the student 
or his school to write a letter to the board, specifically request
ing deferment.
The following procedure will be followed by Carnegie Tech 
to help those students who wish to request deferment for further 
study.
1. Beforp final examinations begin (May 25), and prefer
ably as soon as possible, you should report to the office 
of Dean Jones, AH 254-C, to fill out the first six lines 
on a 109 form. Dean Jones has the necessary forms.
2. As soon as class standings for the current academic year 
are determined, your 109 forms will be completed by CIT 
and mailed to your board, together with a letter from 
CIT requesting your deferment. Copies of this corre
spondence will also be mailed to you at your home, ad
dress; and if you note any mistakes in it you should com
municate immediately with Dr. Jones.
It would also be advisable for the student seeking a defer
ment to write his board not later than the first week in June, 
requesting a deferment for further study, and stating that Carne
gie will shortly report class standings for the present academic 
year. 
Webster N, Jones.
President Warner crowns Queen Lou Rocks at Fridays Call Day 
ceremonies as (left to right) Lynda Cooper, Mary Jane Troop, Nancy 
Callaway, and Sally Miller look on.
Honoraries Call 113 Members; 
Council Awards Activity Keys
Newly Established A1 Cerrito Memorial
Award For Best Basketball Player Made
At last Fridays 1953 Carnival Coronation and Call Day ex
ercises, eight honoraries called 113 persons to membership. In addi
tion, Student Council named activities keys recipients, the Tartan 
made its athletic awards, and Alpha Tau Omega presented its
newly-established A1 Cerrito Me-4----------------------------------------------------------------
morial Award to the years most 
valuable basketball player.
Omicron Delta Kappa, senior 
mens honorary, called the follow
ing men: Phil Drew, Bob Dannels, 
Joseph Ceo, Frederick Dill, Don
ald Wildman, Elroy Wildhaber, 
Dick Durstine, John Laynor, Clark 
Garrecht, John Scouller, and John 
Schonder.
Named to Mortar Board, senior 
womens honorary, were Martha 
Brackemeter, Sally Clark, Gaye 
Damich, Jane Dowling, Carolyn 
Ferguson, Sorlee Gefsky, Betty 
Hurd, Mary Lou Maurhoff, Lynn 
Miller, Rita OHara, Anne St. 
John, Marilyn Seiner, Jane Sun
der, and Janet Wilkins.
Delta Skull, the junior mens 
honorary, called Michael Driscoll, 
John Daniels, Dominick Schrello, 
Adolph Austin, James Miller, Wil
son Sick, Gerald Houck, Phil 
Jeske, Kenneth Luther, Bob Liv
ingston, Dick Christensen, Stan
ford Rosenberg.
Cwens, sophomore honorary 
for women, named the following: 
Susan Armstrong, Janet Bishop, 
Lou Ann Bryant, Nancy Cole, 
Diane Farrington, Sylvia Fasick, 
Jo Forsythe, Joann Gastmeyer, 
Marcia Goldstein, Barbara Hudacek, Mary Langdon, Dora Lappe, 
Sharon Lease, Sally Lowenthal, 
Eleanor Mead,. Barbara Moore, 
Ruth Ann Rand, and June Sochatoff.
Scimitar Society, sophomore 
mens honorary, called George 
Bangs, Jacob Belkin, Harry Brack
en, Robert Englemore, Ed Feigenbaum, Earl Gose, Donald Gross, 
[Continued on page 4]
over the Spring Carnival celebra
tion and enjoyed the place of hon
or on the queens float.
This years sweepstakes saw the 
breaking of old records and the 
establishment of a new record of 
2:30.55 by the winning ATOs. In 
the preliminaries, both the Delts 
and ATO broke last years record 
of 2:36. In the finals, the Delts, 
coming in second, made a 2:30.6.
Spectator Injured
The Pi Kappa Alphas, third 
place winners in the sweepstakes, 
trailed their opponents coming 
into the home stretch. As the 
crowd surged onto the raceway to 
follow the leading buggies, an ex
cited spectator was struck by the 
PiKA mobile, injuring the on
looker and putting the PiKA bug
gy out of the race.
The ATO float was based on the 
old Disney movie, Dumbo, and 
portrayed in detail the Disney cir
cus train. The train included an 
engine, two cars, and a red ca
boose, atop which rode the bigeared Dumbo.
Second place Sigma Nus theme 
was The Circus Parade, carried 
out with the aid of many clowns, 
and a huge mache elephant grac
ed by campus beauties.
Shot Out of Cannon
Kappa Sigma, taking third 
place, introduced The Human 
Cannonball. The float contained 
a circus tent, numerous viewers, 
[Continued on page 4]
AI urn ni A ssocia tion 
Dinner To Honor 
Mary Burnett
Mary Clarke Burnett, teacher, 
writer, and leader in welfare plan
ning, will be honored Saturday, 
May 16, at a testimonial dinner 
given by the alumni association 
of the Carnegie Tech department 
of social work. The dinner will 
be held in the Georgian Terrace 
room of Hotel Webster Hall at 
6:30 p.m.
Mrs. Burnett joined the faculty 
of Carnegie Tech as head of the 
department of social work in 1922, 
and during the last 30 years has 
[Continued on page 2]
Correction
Due to misinterpretation of 
information, two errors occur
red in the Tartan last week 
within the article entitled 
Times and Tech which ap
peared on the editor! page.
We wish therefore to make 
the following corrections:
1. Dean Alexander of 
MMCC is not retiring at the 
present time.
2. Dean Cleeton of H&SS 
will continue in his present 
post, while serving at the 
same time as Dean of the new 
Printing School.

---------------------------------------------------

fe 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 12, 1953
NOQOZ
AWAKE NERS
5854 FORBES STREET SQUIRREL HILL HAzel 1-6883
SAVE!!
DURING OUR SEMI-ANNUAL 
Floor Model Sale
MANY ITEMS YOU HAVE BEEN WANTING
Now Reduced from 10% to 50%
 CAMERAS - SLIDE PROJECTORS - MOVIE CAMERAS
 METERS - TRIPODS - SCREENS - GADGET BAGS
 OTHER ITEMS TOO NUMEROUS TO MENTION
LAST FIVE DAYS
Open Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Till 9 P. M,
University Recreation
aNowRed
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
Reduec form1 0%ott% 
0f5,.U,n iucved
syT H5, It0%
InPhotographic 
Equipment and Supplies
aGWA,THn 
Photo
Supply
1o iuYRYd  O RvY EyyJ 0Hw
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 1 i. Pa. TELEPHONE: 
SChenley 1-4557; after hours SChenley 1-9846; for advertising and subscriptions 
HAzel 1-5360. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and ex
amination periods by the students of Catyiegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 
13, Pa. _________________________________________________________________
Editor-in-Chief ............................................................................................................ Dick Durstin
Basin* Manager  ................................... ......................... ................................ Jerry Seiner
Managing Editor ............................................................................................................ Wilson Sick
New. Editor .......................................*............................................................................ *<> Forsyth*
Sport Editor ........................ ............... ..................... .......................... ............ Frank Fegley
Personnel Manager ............................................................................................. Paul Carmichael
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., 
College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave.. New York City. Subscription 
$1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879 Accepted for /nailing at special 
rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925.
Member ot the Associated College Press, Intercollegiate Press.
, Photo by ToiaMORTAL COMBAT 
The editors of the Scot (right) and the TARTAN (left) ex
change pies in their duel of last Saturday afternoon. The match 
was judge a tie, but Honor has been satisfied.
1953 SnS Provides 
First Rate Musical
By Bob Dannels
Scotch n Soda came loaded with a double-barrelled presentation 
in this years production, Shoot the Works. The ammunition pro
vided by the writers (both music and skit) was of a high caliber 
and the munitions were well constructed. However, the powder 
that was to excite the first act#------------------------------------------------------------------
seemed to have gotten a little 
damp. Whether this was due to 
sound-absorbing humidity in the 
air, a lack of cast enthusiasm or a 
little of both, Im not sure.
Second Act Tops 
Still, the act did have a couple
of high spots. The pseudo-Wag
nerian opera, Tryllyon and Overholte, was quite clever with 
Tryllyon doing an excellent job 
with the required dead-pan seri
ousness. The dancing chorus was 
[Continued on page 4]
Letter To The Editor
Look To Principles
Editor, the Tartan:
I wish to express my complete support of the Administrations 
action suppressing Tartan reviews of drama department plays. How
ever, I fear that the excellent lessons to be inferred from this inci
dent may be lost. There is even the danger that the Administration, 
instead of basing its action on firm, sound, general principles, was 
only swayed momentarily by the pressures upon it, and may not take 
advantage of the precedent that has been set for giving the Tartan 
the firm, benevolent control which it has so often lacked.
What are these firm, sound, general principles?
Clearly, education must train the citizen to adapt himself to 
the times, hence a school paper can perform a singularly useful serv
ice by training its journalists in all the most modern techniques of 
slanting, suppressing, and fabricating news, in order to unify public 
opinion behind those in authority.
Besides giving valuable training to the student journalists, a 
paper run on such principles would have o most beneficial effect on 
its readers, for if they had become used to a school paper which 
honestly tried to report and evaluate school affairs, might they not 
expect that other papers be run in the same old-fashioned man
ner? Indeed, a student allowed to criticize some aspect of his col
lege might someday criticize his government, thus shaking the very 
foundations of free society, leading to anarchy and the destruction 
of all those things we hold so dear.
In a technical college it is especially important that students learn 
to discard such antiquated notions as scientific honesty and objectivi
ty. As has been so well shown recently in the Bureau of Standards, 
the proper function of the scientist is to lend the weight of his 
reputation to the promotion of products sold by influential con
stituents of senators. May the Tartan set a good example to aspir
ing scientists and engineers by not allowing mere facts or honest 
opinion, in the guise of constructive criticism, to deflect it from its 
manifest duty of selling Carnegie Tech!
In the happy conviction that our Administration, apprised of 
its opportunity, will not let it slip through its fingers, I remain
Your Servant,
M. Machiavelli 
(Students names 
withheld on request)
DeanofGr
Sets the Pace in Golf
Theres a Spalding golf ball 
for every game and pocketbook. See your golf profe*~ 
rional or dealer.
Burnett
[Continued from page I] 
been actively instrumental in de
veloping Pennsylvanias public 
welfare services and services to 
children.
Pittsburgh is particularly in
debted to her for its presently 
well-defined welfare services, as 
they are embodied in the Health 
and Welfare federation and the 
Community Chest.
The dinner speaker will be Dr. 
L. B. Moseley, pastor of the First 
Baptist church. Brief mention of 
Mrs. Burnetts direct contributions 
to community welfare planning 
of Pittsburgh and Allegheny coun
ty will bemade by Miss Isabel P. 
Kennedy of the Health and Wel
fare federation; Mrs. Helen Glenn 
Tyson of the Pennsylvania Citi
zens association; and Mr. Alvin 
T. Guyler of the Veterans Ad
ministration.
...banish
'BOOR FATIGUE
DeanofGd does it again! Adds
a spectacular new permanent 
whiteness to the games great
est golf balls.
New Lifetime White, exclusive 
with Spalding, is the brightest, 
whitest white . . . the toughest,
highest gloss white of any ball 
you ever played.
Proven by "torture tests," 
Scalding LIFETIME WHITE re
sists scuffing, bruises, stains... 
wont yellow or chip ... keeps 
its sparkling sheen for life.
rFS *4o %2m mro4m mf494pC 0m"j
RESISTSBRUISING, STAINS
KEEP ALERT SAFELYI
Your doctor will tell you ...a NoDoz Awakener is ^ 
harmless as an average cup of hot, black coffee. 
Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam...or when mid-afternoon brings on those "3-o'clock cobwebs.
You'll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a let* down...helps you snap back to normal and keep alert SAFELY!
When fatigue is a handicap, take a NoDoz Awakener. Used by millions of busy. Amerioans 
since 1933.
o 0* THI HIGHWAY  ON THE J0t  AFTER HOURS

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 121953CARNEGIE TARTANPage *
Craig And Bushey 
Get Tartan Awards
Coming Events 
Tennis
May 13.......... Pitt ...............Home
May 15... Allegheny ..........Away
May 16... Grove City.........Away
Golf
Netmen Beat Westminster 9-0;
IFace Pitt This Afternoon
Last Wednesday, the Tartan tennis squad smashed Westminster, 
9-0, at the New Wilmington courtS.
Jim Miller was the only Tech man to drop a set as he downed 
Herrick, 4-6, 6-2, 6-4. Bob Wiederhorn won over Yeo of West
minster, 6-1, 6-4, while Alan*
Glasser beat Sands, 9-7, 6-2. Don 
Tsiang defeated White, 6-4, 7-5, 
and Mahlon Saibel and Don 
Djmcklee resp ectively defeated 
Wallace and Pierson, 6-0, 6-1.
Sweeping the doubles for Tech 
were Miller and Wiederhorn over 
Yeo and Herrick, 6-1, 6-3; Glasser 
and Tsiang over Sands and Whit,
6-1, 6-4; and Saibel and Duncklee 
over Pierson and Reed, 6-2, 6-3.
This was the third straight shut
out victory for the Frank Moses 
netmen. Although the season is 
only half over, the power the team 
has shown so far indicates that 
they may very well complete an
other undefeated season.
Tomorrow afternoon the team 
will seek its fifth win of the year 
when they face Pitt on the Tech 
courts.
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
ot9% r %C*tEom%to
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
%C*tEom%to0
AU Kindt M Low M*29.50
American Typewriter Co. " wjn . (o. 1-1019
aleni Parking
 ASY
YOe
xOPCgT
utaSG
21 PcIB
ZS
Serving Moryiond, Ohio, Pomylvonta, 
Virginio and West Virginia from
Liberty Ave. at Grant St. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. CO 1-1800
Anyone here named Cannonball Frobisher?
iasSs ,.nnR Fat part of the opposi
tion batting order coming up. The 
manager needs a new pitcher fast!
So he did what most everybody does 
in an emergency  reached for the 
telephone. It connects bull pen and 
dugout. Cannonball was elected to 
put out the fire.
Ever wonder why people place so 
much faith in telephones in time of 
emergency? Its because they know 
it is dependable a real friend.
This dependability is a tribute to 
the men and women of the Bell System. 
They are forever working on new ideas 
or improving old ones to give the 
nation the best telephone service in 
the world.
The interesting and rewarding work 
they do could be yours as well. Your 
Placement Officer will be happy to 
give you details about the many op
portunities for employment in the 
Bell System.
Bell Telephone System
By Frank Fegley
Tom Craig, senior metallurgist from East McKeesport, and George 
Bushey, senior architect from Cavetown, Maryland, were presented 
the-annual Tartan awards, emblematic of being the varsity and in
tramural athletes-of-the-year, respectively.
Craig, a standout on the hard-^ 
wood and the gridiron, was the 
unanimous choice of the athletic 
panel. He was chosen from  
wide cross-section of Plaid athletes 
which included Clyde Stahle and 
Irv Shecter, football, Bob Wieder
horn, tennis, and Bob Carman, 
track and cross country. Carman 
received the Tartan award last 
year.
Football and Basketball
A high scoring, pass snatching 
end on the gridiron, Craig was 
awarded the Joe Pash trophy 
for being the outstanding Carne
gie Tech- football player last year, 
and was on the first string basket
ball squad leading the Tartans 
in storing and rebounding in his 
final two seasons. He was named 
to the third string all-district 
quintet. Among his many achieve
ments on the court, Craig left two 
records in the Scot annals. He 
tied mentor Mel Cratsley single 
game record of 34 points in one 
game, and set a new total scor
ing record for points scored over 
a four span.
Bushey a Unanimous Choice
George Bushey, cavorting for 
Sigma Nu, was the unanimous 
choice for the intramural athlete-of-the-year award. Bushey, 
participating in almost every sport 
on the program from basketball 
down to table tennis, was mainly 
responsible for his fraternitys 
winning the school football and 
badminton championships, and its 
fine showings in volleyball, soft
ball, and soccer. He was named 
on the volleyball and football allstar teams, being selected as the 
IMs outstanding pigskin-toter.
He also was a member of the 
volleyball squad which won the 
Eastern Intercollegiate volleyball 
tournament.
May 12. .. Grove City........Away
May 15.. Inv. Tourney Meadville
May 18... Grove City........Home
Track
May 12.. Westminster .... Away 
May 16... Tri-St Meet .Meadville
are shown here with the trophies they received on call day. Craig 
and Bushey received the Tartan atlilete-of-the-year awards, while 
Thompson was the recipient of the A1 Cerrito Memorial trophy.Thinclads Prepare For Tri-State Meet On Saturday
Guy Halferty and his track 
squad will travel to Meadville this 
Saturday to defend their TriState championship. The Scot 
thinclads, undefeated so far this 
season, are pinning their hopes of 
retaining the crown on the show
ings of their past performances. 
This afternoon, the track team 
will seek to win its-21st consecu
tive dual meet victory when it 
tangles with Westminster at New 
Wilmington. Should the Tartans 
emerge triumphant, it will be the 
climax of their third straight un
defeated season.
Patronize Tartan Advertisers
0frflwfr
HOES ^HEN
Trim . . . smart.. City Club. 
Wtien if comes to well formed 
lasts, perfect styling . . . and 
top shoe-making, you'll take 
City Clubs. And the price ... 
you'll like it. .. it's just right, 
too!
As Advertised in

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 12, 1953
SnSPhoto by Toia
SQUISH
Sorority members battle on the edge of the mud pit during a 
round of Saturdays tug of war contests. Kappa Kappa Gamma 
emerged triumphant at the end of the contest.
PanHell Workshop Planned 
For Tomorrow Night At Union
PanHellenic Council will be host to the seven campus sororities 
when it conducts the PanHell Workshop on Wednesday, May 13. Be
ing held for the third year, its purpose is to promote inter-sorority 
cooperation and aid the individual groups and PanHell itself by 
suggesting projects. ?-------------------------------------------------------------------
At 6:00, there will be a dinner 
in Morewood Gardens for all sor
ority presidents, new and old Pan
Hell officers, and chairmen of the 
various committees. It will be 
followed by a short meeting in the 
lobby for all sorority girls at which 
Eunice Brunn, president of Pan
Hell, will extend greetings. The 
Workshop, which will be. in the 
Carnegie Union, will get underway 
at 7:00
Discussion Topics
a discussion of intramural athlet
ics. On the committee, which is 
headed by Rita OHara, are Mary 
Lou Maurhoff. Solee Gefskv, and 
Sally Clark.
Other Problems 
The relationship between col
lege PanHell and the national or
ganization will be decided by a 
discussion of any problems which 
may be present because of con
flicting policies between Tech and 
national offices. Betty Griggs at
Five pertinent topics are to be chairman. She will be assisted by
Bea Pollock,.- Millie Magura, and 
Martha Dabney.
Jeanne Corcoran, heading the 
group discussing the evaluation of 
the revised rushing system, has ar
ranged to present the question
naires concerning the topic, which
discussed. As chairman of the 
project, Ruth Cooper has named 
a committee to handle each of the 
topics.
Chairman of the publicity com
mittee is Joan Lucien who will be 
assisted by Jo Forsythe, Rosemary
Rambo, and Nancy Senard. Sug- Were filled out by each sorority 
gestions for keeping sororities in : this semester. The committee 
the public eye and a plan of pub- i members are Donna Harpold, Marlic relations will be discussed. ilvn Seiner, and Betty Hurd.
The responsibilities of PanHell The last topic is how to keep a 
topic will include deciding what j girl interested in her sorority, 
kind of projects the Council should i Problems such as attendance at 
sponsor, and what its duties should | meetings and the general attitude 
be in the planning of Spring Car- | toward sororities will be discussed, 
nival. In addition, there will be Bonnie Shields, as chairman, will
by Stedry 
FROM THE INSTITUTE
The department of music will 
present a program of scenes from 
operas on Friday, Saturday, and 
Sunday, May 15, 16, and 17, at 
8:30 p.m. in the exhibition hall, 
Fine Arts building. The program 
will include selections from Don 
Giovanni, Cosi Fan Tutte, The 
Magic Flute, Madama Butterfly, 
and Pagliacci. Tickets are avail
able (free) in the music office. 
THE DRAMA 
Tonight marks the opening of the 
drama departments latest produc
tion, The Chief Thing, by Nich
olas Evreinoff. Professor Charles 
W. Moore will direct the produc
tion, which will run until May 22. 
Time: 8:15, Place, Carnegie ThepyT, BOUNCE to the Ounce
[Continued from page 2] 
also noteworthy, especially in the 
Drifting and Brazilian Bolero 
scenes.
Whatever the first act lacked 
was well supplied in the second, 
where everything seemed George 
and gone. Especially excellent 
were the vocal-dancing numbers, 
Its a Crazy World and Feel 
Free, and also the dancing Pot
pourri. The humorous skits were 
also good, particularly the solo, 
Requiem for Radio by Herb 
Gardner. The bonus numbers 
about Pittsburghs sun and SugarCoated Cookies were a pleasant 
continuation of the better act. The
be aided by Trudy Richtarsic, 
Margaret Kuhn, and Pat Trushel.
Workshop Accomplishments
In previous years, some of the 
suggestions which have material
ized as a result of the Workshop 
are the Panhel suggestion box, 
specific projects, such as tagging 
for hospitals, and the deciding that 
there are to be no religious re
strictions on rushing.
Since there will be an open 
forum following each committees 
presentation of its topic, every 
sorority is urged to have repre
sentatives at all the discussions in 
order that they may voice the 
opinions of their group.
cookies, though, seemed to have 
extensive undeveloped possibili
ties.
One-Two Punch
The most outstanding parts were 
Frank Gorshin, and the dancing 
chorus. Gorshin is a real crazy 
showman of whom Tech can well 
be proud. Teena Stern and Cul 
Smith as choreographers did a su
perb job with their dancers, espe
cially the dancing girls. A pair of 
orchids should go to a pair of 
twins, Louise and Nancy Eisenbeis, who with little, if any, pre
vious training, proved excellent 
students of Teenas by turning in 
a masterful performance.
The costumes, settings and or
chestras all contributed much more 
than their requirements to well 
round out a successful show. In 
total, the production was an ex
cellent one-two punch, where the 
one was a softening up for the 
Sunday twowhich was a knock
out.
Call Day
[Continued from page 1]
Richard Major, Bill Minkler, John 
Recker, David Shuck, Joseph 
Thomas, and Jim Tilbrook.
Claymore Clan, mens dorm ac
tivities honorary, named Kenneth 
Hertz, Clyde Rohland, Jack McNall, Dick Kendrick, Edward Bige
low, George Miley, Robert Har
ing, and Ed Davis.
Your I.D. CARD Means15% off
%mpt 024*
On
 Watch Repairs
 Lighters  Gifts
 Watches  Jewelry
 Identification Bracelets
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077 
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
ater, Fine Arts. Tickets may be | 
procured in the main office, Fine ! 
Arts building.
MARYS DAY CELEBRATION
A unique ceremony will take 
place at St. Brigids Church on 
Wylie avenue, the Hill district, 
May 17, at 7:30 p.m. Children and 
adults from the area will be joined 
by Pittsburgh college students in a 
religious program which includes 
an address by Father Bassompierre, pastor and diocesan director 
of the St. Vincent De Paul So
ciety, a Catholic charity organiza
tion.
Arrangements for the program 
were made by the Tech student 
conference of the De Paul Society. 
All interested persons are invited 
to attend.
Collegians Unfazed By Heat;
Keep Cool in Arrow Lightweights
A cool and comfortable summer is predicted for students 
who cool off in Arrow lightweight shirts and sports shirts. 
These hot-weather favorites are air-conditioned by 
thousands of open windows in the fabric. Long and short 
sleeve styles . . . white and pastel colors. Available at 
Arrow dealers.
ARROW SHIRTS
N 02mo%0 O %mt0 O 9toEtro O 2r9Stof2mts0 " 0*4o%0 02mo%0 N
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
Gt49ro(0 pt9(0 024*
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
ROY VERNER BEESE
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, INC.
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
Carnival
[Continued from page I] 
and a huge cannon. In front of the 
reviewers stand, a dummy was 
shot out of the cannon, landing 
in a net behind the float.
An added attraction at this 
years Carnival was the Sorority 
Tug-O-War, in which Kappa Kap
pa Gamma took first place and 
Delta Gamma, second. Omicron 
Delta Kappa, sponsors of Car
nival, obligingly dug a moat on 
the lawn between MMCC and the 
Inn, filled it with water, and stir
red. Through this mud puddle, 
victorious sororities pulled their 
opponents.
Fraternities and Sororities
Open n Account and Get
YOUR 10% DISCOUNTSOAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 FORBES STREET
Home Run 
BY TRAIN!
IT'S A HIT! The fun of a
train trip home with friends ... 
enjoying roomy comfort and 
swell dining-car meals.
ITS A STEAL! You and
two or more friends can each 
save 25% of regular round-trip 
coach fares by traveling home 
and back together on Group 
Plan tickets. These tickets are 
good generally between points 
more than 100 miles apart. Or 
a group of 25 or more can each 
save 28% by heading home in 
the same direction at the same 
time . . . then returning either 
together or separately.
SAFE AT HOME I Youll 
get home promptly as planned 
. . . with all-weather certainty 
no other travel can match.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL RAILROAD TICKET 
AGENT WELL IN ADVANCE OF DEPARTURE 
DATE FOR DETAILED INFORMATION
tr0%to9ormGo4r0
