Tartans
Win
Fourth Straight 
See Page 5
VOL. 48No. 5CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Engineering 
Statistics 
In "The ObserverSee Page 4
TUES, OCTOBER 19, 1954
Management Institute 
Plans Convention Here
Outstanding scientists will meet with some of the management 
leaders from# business and universities both here and abroad at 
the first nationalconvention of the Institute of Management Sciences
being held in Pittsburgh, October 21-22. 
of inventory, production, market-*' 
ing, organization and communica
tion.
The new professional society was 
formed early this year as an out
growth of the increasing need to 
apply scientific techniques in solv
ing complex modern management 
problems. The crux of the Insti
tutes approach to the problems of 
modern management is the appli
cation of mathematical and statis
tical tools, electronic computers, 
automatic machinery, high-speed 
communication systems, and sociopsychological theories and meth
ods.
Pittsburgh Chosen
In announcing the convention, 
the Institutes president, Professor 
William W. Cooper of the Gradu
ate School of Industrial Adminis
tration pointed out that Pittsburgh 
was a logical place for such a con
vention. Not only does this city 
possess a great industrial complex, 
it has also achieved recognition as 
an outstanding center of research 
in management science.
An immediate goal of the In
stitute, President Cooper said, was 
to encourage research in the sci
ence of management and to apply 
that research so that its fruits 
would be available to all inter
ested parties. *
For this purpose the Institute 
has inaugurated a quarterly pub
lication Management Science 
which will feature articles on new 
theories and applications written 
for both technical and non-technical readers. The first edition will 
be issued to coincide with the 
'first national meeting. The conven
tion is also intended to provide an 
opportunty for the exchange of 
such information and to secure 
overall perspective from outstand
ing authorities in all segments of 
the management science field.
Panel Participants
The highlight of the convention 
will be two panel discussions. Dr. 
Melvin Salveson, formerly direc
tor of the University of Califor
nias Management Science re
search project and now with Gen
eral Electrics UNIVAC electron
ics computer group will preside at 
the first panel,  Management Sci
ence Today. Other participants 
will be Dr. Herbert A. Simon, 
chairman of Techs department of 
industrial management, Professor 
Merrill Flood, director of Colum
bia Universitys Institute for Re
search in the Management of In
dustrial Production, Dr. C. C.
Hurd, director of IBMs Applied 
Science Division, and Dr. Alex 
Orden, director of the computa
tions laboratory at the Burroughs 
Corporation.
Mr. Ezra Glaser of the U. S. 
Executive Office of President 
Eisenhower will preside <3ver an
other panel, Management Science 
Tomorrow. Panel members will 
be Dr. Samuel Hayes, director of 
the Institute of Human Relations 
at the University of Michigan, 
Professor C. W. Churchman, Man
aging Editor of Management Sci
ence and director of the depart
ment of operations research at 
Case Institute of Technology and 
Dr. Abraham Charnes, associate 
professor of mathematics and in
dustrial administration at Carne
gie. The convention will also hear 
addresses by the Institute presi
dent and the Management Science 
editor.
They will discuss problems
Varsity Varieties 
Set For Morewood 
Gardens This Year
Varsity Varieties, one of the 
many features of Homecoming 
weekend, will be given this year 
at 2:30 p.m. on November 5 by 
the seven sororities on campus at 
Morewood Gardens for Carnegie 
Tech students and their guests.
The sororities, each presenting 
a variation on the theme of comic 
trip characters, will include: Chi 
Omega, Delta Gamma, Sigma 
Kappa, Delta Delta Delta, Kappa 
Alpha Theta, Alpha Epsilon Phi 
and Kappa Kappa Gamma. The 
different skits will be judged ac
cording to originality and clarity 
of presentation by Dr. Sochatoff, 
Dr. Norman Dawes, and Mrs. McCreary of Margaret Morrison.
Acting as general chairman for 
Varsity Varieties, which is under 
the sponsorship of Mortar Board, 
senior womens honorary, is Mil
dred Magura, - with co-chairmen 
Sarah Hailperin and Barbara 
Hall. John Conboy of the drama 
department will serve as master 
of ceremonies.
Reading Classes 
To Be Offered
The Reading Laboratory of 
the Bureau of Measurement 
and Guidance will offer read
ing improvement training on 
a twice a week basis in the 
following combinations:
Mondays at 1:30 and Thurs
days at 8:30.
Mondays at 1:30 and Thurs
days at 1:30.
Mondays at 1:30 and Fri
days at 1:30.
Tuesdays at 2:30 and 
Thursdays at 8:30.
Tuesdays at 2:30 and 
Thursdays at 1:30.
Tuesdays at 2:30 and Fri
days at 1:30.
Wednesdays at 2:30 and 
Thursday at 8:30.
Wednesdays at 2:30 and 
Thursdays at 1:30.
Wednesdays at 2:30 and 
Fridays at 1:30.
All meetings will be in AH 
331.
Sessions begin Thursday, 
October 21 and Friday, Octo
ber 22.
Although designed primar
ily for freshmen, these ses
sions are open to interested 
upperclassmen.
George F. Needham
Assistant, Bureau of
Measurement and Guidance
26 Women Pledge Sororities 
As Rushing Season Ends
The fall rush period for the seven sororities ended on Monday, 
October 11, when 26 girls picked up their bids at Carnegie Union. 
This rush period was for transfer students and upperclassmen only 
who had achieved the requirement of a 2.00 factor. During the preceeding week each sorority had*------------------------------------------------
held rush parties and feted the
rushees with lunch and dinner 
dates at Morewood Gardens.
From now until the time of 
spring rushing the sororities will 
be allowed to bi at any time. 
The new pledges who can be seen 
wearing their distinctive dinks are 
listed below.
Alpha Epsilon PhiSally Beltz.
Chi OmegaMary Walsh, Carol 
Sechler.
Delta Delta Delta  IT a n c y
Medis, Nancy Evans, Mary Lou 
Lauten, Margaret Vetter, Joanne 
Hurley, Marjorie Steiner, Betty 
Jean Whitmyer.
Delta GammaLin Smith, Sue 
Gordon, Harriet Albert, Suzanne 
Maucher, Anne Elder.
Kappa Alpha ThetaSally Tall, 
Lavelle Hirshberg, Susanne 
Groves.
Kappa Kappa Gamma  Ann
Mechler, Pat Dimling, Doriene 
Deeter, Anne Kammer.
Sigma KappaJoanna Wagner, 
Greta Davidson, Betty Heltsley, 
Joanne Dewan.
The nextrush period will take 
place during the second semester 
of this school year when freshmen 
girls will be eligible for rushing. 
This will be the second year that 
freshman rushing will be per
mitted.
Dance Tickets
Homecoming dance tickets 
will l>e on sale beginning Oc
tober. 27 from 11:30 to 1:30 
in Skibo. The price will be 
$2.75 per couple including 
tax.
Plans For Junior 
W omens Honorary 
Now Being Formed
Plans are being laid for the 
formation of a new womens jun
ior honorary. Tentative aims are 
to aid freshman women in their 
adjustment toward a successful 
academic life at Carnegie Tech, 
to aid freshmen in their personal 
adjustment at CIT, to provide 
fellowship for junior women of 
high scholastic standing and high 
personal standards.
It will also endeavor to teach its 
members the ability and the sense 
of responsibility and to use their 
knowledge to benefit others. A 
similar system as that employed 
by Cwens will be used to select 
the girls for this group.
Last year the former dean, Mrs. 
Brahna Hutchins,-chose a num
ber of junior -women who tutored 
fi'eshman girls throughout the 
second semester in those subjects 
which were giving the girls most 
trouble. Upon the request of Mrs. 
Hutchins, three of the girls, Kay 
Frazier, Margie Penney, and Jan
ice Yent, volunteered to help ororganize the new organization.
. The general work has been laid 
out and junior women will soon be 
selected. In an assembly in MMCC 
at 11:30 a.m, on Tuesday, Octo
ber 19, the plan was explain
ed to the freshmen girls. Any 
freshman can feel free to bring 
any problem, large or small, to 
one of the girls who will do her best to help her.
Carnegie Open House 
Planned For Tuesday
Plans have been undertaken for the annual Open House Day 
to be held at Carnegie Tech on Tuesday, October 26.
The purpose of Open House is to acquaint prospective students 
with the many advantages which, the administration feels are to
*be gained from training at CarTau Beta Pi Again negie Tech- To further this aim 
To Tutor Classes 
In Frosh Subjects
This year, as in the past, Tau 
Beta Pi is offering free tutoring 
in freshman and sophomore tech
nical courses. The purpose of this 
program is to provide supplemen
tary instruction to those students 
who feel that such work will en
able them to keep up better in 
their regular studies.
The tutoring is done in small 
classes, the students themselves 
usually deciding upon the material 
to be covered. Emphasis is on un
derstanding of the subject matter 
rather than the solution of par
ticular problems. The tutors are 
highly qualified upperclassmen 
who have distinguished them
selves in the fields in which they 
are tutoring.
Tutoring is being planned in 
the following courses:
ChemistryS101, S102.
' Mathematics  S221, S222,
S223, S224.
PhysicsS402, S403, S404.
Each course will be scheduled 
at least one hour each week, the 
schedules being posted in the 
main lobbies of AH, EH and MH, 
and published in the Tartan. They 
will begin the week of October 
25. In order to attend a class, a 
student need only be in the right 
room at the aopointed time. There 
is no registration or other no
tification required. The tutoring 
s, as mentioned above, absolutely 
free of charge.
In addition to the regular tu
toring schedule, Tau Beta Pi is 
presenting a series of two lectures 
on the use of the slide rule. These 
will take place on November 16 
and 30 at U:30 in Eli 2210. The 
first will cover the elementary 
theory and use of the basic scales; 
the second will be concerned with 
the special trigonometric and loglog scales.
Scotch n Soda 
Script Chosen
Bob Smith, a sub-senior in the 
department of architecture who 
makes his home in nearby Squirrel 
Hill, has submitted the prize win
ning script for the 1955 Scotch and 
Soda production. Perhaps the best 
way to describe Bob is quiet and 
amiable, and he can always be 
found walking thru the halls of 
Fine Arts attired in his architecural khaki trousers.
an Open House committee, con
sisting of 480 freshmen from 191 
tri-state high and preparatory 
schools, has been organized.
At the first meeting of this 
committee in the Fine Arts build
ing on October 5, it will ex
plained to the members that their 
contribution to the success of 
Open House Day consisted of re
turning to their respective high 
schools and, through the counselor 
or principal, extending an invita
tion to the Open House to all stu
dents and parents desiring to 
know more about Carnegie Tech 
and its plan of education.
Committee Meeting 
Another meeting of the student 
committee has been scheduled for 
later in this month so that ar
rangements may be completed to 
accommodate all those desiring to 
learn more about Tech.
Those members of the commit
tee who missed the first meeting 
are requested to attend the next 
meeting, and in the meantime, 
contact someone who was pres
ent at the first meeting in order 
that they may be briefed on their 
duties as committee members.
Since one of the aims of the 
Open House is to give students 
some familiarity with Carnegie 
laboratories and other facilities in 
operation, many of the depart
ments in the College of Engineer
ing and Science, College of Fine 
Arts, Margaret Morrison, the Di
vision of Humanistic and Social 
Studies will have special exhibi
tions and demonstrations.
Amazing Exhibits 
Among other exhibits, the phys
ics department will have a glassblower demonstrating his talents, 
a high-speed photography Kerr 
[Continued on page 8]
Alpha Phi Omega 
Plans To Sponsor 
UMOC For Chest
Again this year as in the past 
Alpha Phi Omega will sponsor an 
Ugly Man On Campus contest in 
conjunction with the annual Cam
pus Chest drive. Any male student 
of Carnegie Tech may enter the 
contest, but no dogs, girls, or fac
ulty members are allowed.
The winner of this contest will 
be designated the ugliest man on 
campus and will be presented 
with his trophy at the Homecoming 
Dance.
Balloting will be held in Skibo 
j from 11:30 to 1:30 on Tuesday, 
October 26 to Friday, October 29, 
under the supervision of APhiO. 
His script, which won him the Votes will be on the basis of conannual award of $25.00, is his first j tributions to the Campus Chest 
attempt as a playwiight. His artis- i *und with each cent representing 
tic efforts have previously been jon^ vote. Contributions will be 
centered around painting and Placed in milk bottles placed in 
sculpture, but last summer he de- Skibo for that purpose, 
cided to try something different,! To enter the contest, each candiand it is around these efforts that ; date must submit a 5x7 porthe club wili assemble and pro- j trait of himsel
duce the show for 1955 Carnival. I 5017 Forbes Stree
We are confident that the show' j Monday, October 
will be a success and go down in tures will be displ 
the memories of Techites along | voting. Posters for 
with One in a Million and! not be larger tha 
Shoot the Works, to mention must be approved 
only a few. i office.
Dave Larsc 
t by 6:00 
25. Thse 
ayed dur inf 
the contest 
lxl4 
Dr. Mi
the

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 19, 1954
Religious Assembly 
Held in Arts Theater
The religious orientation assembly was held Tuesday morning, 
October 12, in the Fine Arts theatre. Its purpose was to acquaint 
the students, mostly freshmen, with the religious opportunities of
fered at Tech. ?------------------------------------------------------
To open the program Prelude,
Fugue, and Variation was played 
by Miss Millicent Hay; the invo
cation was then given by the Rev
erend J. Regis Berkmyre, chap
lain for the Catholic students.
Dr. Norman Dawes, associate 
professor of history, gave the ad
dress entitled The Place of Re
ligious Activities on the Carnegie 
Tech Campus. He mentioned that 
Tech offered an opportunity for 
all the students to follow and fur
ther their own religious faiths. He 
also stated that religion, being an 
important part of a persons life, 
also plays an important part on 
the campus.
Groups Described
The three religious groups on 
campus, Hillel Foundation, New
man Club, and Student Christian 
Federation, were then i-epresented 
by their respective presidents; 
Harvey Breverman, Paul Sieffert, 
and Wayne Smith. These presi
dents each gave a brief descrip
tion of their organizations and the 
opportunities they had to offer.
The Hillel Foundation, for in
stance, provides a meeting place 
for all the Jewish students, while 
the Newman Club offers the Cath
olic students religious instruction 
as well as get-togethers. There 
are several branches of the Stu
dent Christian Federation; these 
are the Canterbury Club, Luth
eran Students Association, West
minster Foundation, Roger Wil
liams Fellowship, Teknon Club, 
and Wesley Fellowship.
Next on the program was the 
introduction of the various chap
lains. Rabbi Morris Feldman is 
director of Hillel; Rev. J. Regis 
Berkmyre, Newman Club; Rev. 
Hugh S. Clark, Canterbury Club; 
Rev. Earl Kraus, Lutheran Stu
dents Association; Rev. E. Vin
cent Stratton, Westminster Foun
dation; Rev. Paul Offenhiser, 
Roger Williams Fellowship; Dr. 
Howard C. Scharfe, Teknon Club; 
Dr. Martha Foy, Wesley Fellow
ship.
Rabbi Morris Feldman delivered 
the benediction, and Miss Hazel 
Hay played Finale from First 
Symphony to conclude the relig
ious assembly. .
One Stop 
Service
SHIRTS
WASHED and 
PRESSED ON OUR 
NEW PRESSES
ROUGH DRY LAUNDRY
DRY (LEANING
One Hour Service 
If Desired
ALL WORK DONE ON 
OUR PREMISES
CAMPUS 
Cleaners
4609 Forbes St.
Honorary 
Pledges Three
At a meeting on Tuesday, Octo
ber 12, Gamal Fam, Kay Frazier, 
and Maxine Allman were selected 
for membership in Omicron Nu, 
the home economics honorary.
Pledging will take place Tues
day, October 19, In the home eco
nomics seminar room.
The girls will be initiated on 
Tuesday, October 26, in the home 
management house. A luncheon 
for the members will follow the 
initiation.
Homecoming
Mums
Mums for Homecoming may 
be ordered from October 19 
to October 26 only. They will 
be on sale at Skibo this week 
during the lunch hours, or 
they may be purchased from 
any fraternity representative. 
No late orders will be taken.
Pittsburgh Opera 
Opens This Week 
With Ellen Faull
For the gala opening of the 15th 
season of the Pittsburgh Opera, 
General Director Richard Karp 
has chosen Verdis spectacular 
Aida, which will be given at 
Syria Mosque on Thursday and 
Saturday evenings, October 28 
and 30, at 8:15 p.m.
Appearing in this opening opera 
will be a fine array of artists, in
cluding soprano Ellen Faull, who 
needs no introduction to her many 
home-town friends; Giorgl Cocolios-Bardi, tenor, making his 
first appearance with the Pitts
burgh Opera; Margery Mayer, al
so well remembered here from 
her past appearances; Cesare Bardelli, baritone; William Wilderman, Robert Anderson and An
drea Velis. Supporting these fine 
artists will be Lydia Arlova and 
Lucien Prideaux, Corps de Bal
let, an augmented opera chorus, 
and the Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra. Performances will be di
rected by Richard Karp.
Verdis Aida is in four acts, 
with text by Ghislanzoni; its first 
production was given in Cairo, 
Egypt, in the year 1871.
Tickets are on sale at the. Pitts
burgh Opera, Inc., 2328 Farmers 
Bank Building, Pittsburgh 22, 
Pa., COurt 1-5294; Gimbels; and 
Hornes. Mail orders are given 
prompt attention.
imu Out st aundigby Dkk
Its only Eds sister with his laundry.
Patronize Our Advertisers
Don Sundstrom asks:
What are my 
chances for 
advancement in 
a big firm 
like Du Pont?
Donald W. Sundstrom received -his B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from 
Worcester Polytechnic Institute in 1953. He's currently studying for an M.S. degree 
and expects to receive it next year. Like other engineering students, hes asking 
a lot of searching questions before deciding on a permanent employer.
Jerry Risser answers:Gerald J. Risser, B.S. Chem. Eng., Univ. of. 
Wisconsin (1937), is now assistant man
ager of the Engineering Service Division 
In Du Ponts Engineering Department, Wil 
mington, Delaware.
I
 THINK Iknow exactly whats behind that question, 
Don, because the same thing crossed my mind 
when I first graduated and looked around for a job. 
That was about seventeen years ago, when the 
Du Pont Company was much smaller than it is to
day. And theres a large factor in the answer, Don, 
right there! The advancement and growth of any 
employee depends to a considerable degree on the 
advancement and growth of his employer. Promojtion possibilities are bound to be good in an expand
ing organization like Du Pont.
Right now, for example, construction is in prog
ress or planned for three new plants. That means 
many new opportunities for promotion for young 
engineers. And, in my experience, I have found it is 
a fundamental principle of Du Pont to promote
from within the organizationon merit.
My own field, development work, is a natural for 
a young graduate, because its one of the fundamental 
branches of engineering at Du Pont. There are com
plete new plants to design, novel equipment prob
lems to work on, new processes to pioneerall sorts 
of interesting work for a man who can meet a chal
lenge. Many of the problems will involve cost studies 
some will require evaluation in a pilot plantbut, 
in every case, theyll provide the satisfactions which 
come from working with people you like and respect.
All in all, Don, your chances of advancement on 
merit are mighty good at Du Pont!
M< U S PAT OffBETTER THINGS FOR BITTER IIVINO 
  THROUGH CHEMISTKY
WATCH "CAVALCADE OF AMERICA ON TELEVISION
Want to know moro about wbrking with Du Pont? 
Send for a free copy of Chemical Engineers at Du Pont/  
a booklet that tells you about pioneering work being done 
in chemical engineeringin research, process develop
ment, production and sales. Theres a step-by-step outline 
of the leadership opportunities that confront a young 
Du Pont engineerhow he can advanceand how he can 
obtain help from experienced members of the team. Write 
to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours 
Building, Wilmington, Delaware.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 19, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
WHAT EVERY YOUNG COED SHOULD WEAR
Gather round, girls. Snap open a pack of Philip Morris, light up, relax and enjoy that mild fragrant vintage tobacco while Old Dad tells you about the latest campus fashions.The key word this year is casual. Be casual. Be slapdash. Be rakish. Improvise. Invent your own ensembleslike ski pants with a peek- a-boo blouse, like pajama bottoms with an ermine stole, like a hocky sweater with a dirndl.
(Dirndl, incidentally, is one of the truly fascinating words in the 
English language. Etymologists have quarreled over its origin for years. Some hold with Professor Manley Ek that Dirndl is a corruption of Dardanelle and is so named because it resembles the skirts worn by the women of that region. This theory is at first glance plausible, but begins to fall apart when you consider that there are no women in the Dardanelle region because of the loathesome local custom of female infanticide.)(Another theory is advanced by Dr. Clyde Feh. Dirndl, says he, is a contraction of dairy in the dell" and refers to the milkmaidish appearance of the skirt. But again close examination causes one to abandon a plausible hypothesis. As every child knows, it is not dairy in the dell but farmer in the dell, in which case the skirt should be called not dirndl but firndl.
(There are some who contend we will never know the true origins of dirndl. To those faint hearted Cassandras I say, remember how everyone laughed at Edison and Franklin and Fulton and Marconi and Sigafoos. TSigafoos, in case you have forgotten, invented the nostril, without which breathing, as we know it today, would not be possible.] The origins of dirndl will be found, say I, and anyone who believes the contrary is a lily-livered churl and if hell step outside for a minute, Ill give him a thrashing he wont soon forget.)
But I digress. We were smoking a Philip Morris and talking about the latest campus styles. Casual, we agree, is the key Word. But casual need not mean drab. Liven up your outfits with a touch of glamor. Even the lowly dungaree and man-shirt combination can be made exciting if youll adorn it with a simple necklace of 120 matched diamonds. With Bermuda shorts, wear gold knee-cymbals. Be guided by the famous poet Cosmo Sigafoos (whose brother Sam it was who invented the nostril) who wrote:Sparkle, my beauty,Shimmer and shine,The night is young,The airs like wine,Cling to a leaf,Hang on a vine,Crawl on your belly,Its time to dine.
(Mr. Sigafoos, it should be explained, was writing about a glowworm. Insects, as everyone knows, are among Mr. Sigafoos favorite subjects for poems. Who can ever forget his immortal Ode to a Boll W eevil? Or his Tumbling Along With the Tumbling Tumblebug? 
Or his Fly Gently, Sweet Aphid? Mr. Sigafoos has been inactive since the invention of DDT.)
But I digress. We were smoking a Philip Morris and discussing fashions. Let us turn now to headwear. The motif in hats this year will be familiar American scenes. There will be models to fit every headfor example, the Empire State Building fqj tall thin heads; the Jefferson Memorial for squatty ones; Niagara Falls<for dry scalps. Feature of the collection is the Statue of Liberty, complete with a torch that actually burns. This is very handy for lighting your Philip Morrises, which is very important because no matter how good Philip Morrises are, theyre nowhere unless you light them.We come now to the highlight of this years fashion paradea mad fad thats sweeping the chic set at high tone campuses all over the country. All the gals who are in the van, in the swim, and in the know are doing it. Doing what, you ask? Getting tattooed, of course! You just dont rate these days unless youve got at least an anchor on your biceps. If you really want to be the envy of the campus, get yourself a four masted schooner, or a heart with FATHER printed inside of it, or a
I interrupt this column to bring you a special announcement. A runner has just handed me the following bulletin:
The origin of the word dirndl has at long last been discovered. On June 27, 1846, Dusty Schwartz, the famous scout and Indian fighter, went into the Golden Nugget Saloon in Cheyenne, Wyoming. The Golden Nugget had just imported a new entertainer from the East. She came out and did her dance in pink tights. Dusty Schwartz had never seen anything like that in his life, and he was much 
impressed. He watched with keen interest as she did her numbers, and he thought about her all the way home. When he got home, his wife Feldspar was waiting to show him a new skirt she had made 
for herself. How do you like my new skirt, Dusty? said Feldspar. He looked at the large voluminous garment, then thought of the pink tights on the dancing girl. Your skirt is darn dull, said Dusty.Darn dull was later shortened to dirndl 1-----J-got their name.which is how dirndls
Max Shulman, 1954
This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS 
who think you would enjoy their cigarette.
Four Film Arts 
Movies Yet To Be 
Shown This Fall
There are four movies still to be 
shown in the fall series of Film 
Arts. Blood of a Poet, a surreal
istic story will be shown this week. 
Potemkin, a movie made by 
Eisenstein about an incident in the 
Russian Revolution, will be shown 
on October 21, and Desire, star
ring Marlene Deitrich, will be 
shown on October 29.
The movies are presented on 
Thursdays at 4:30 and 7:00 in the 
Morewood Gardens recreation hall. 
Tickets for the remaining four 
movies may be purchased for $1.00 
by inquiring at the door. Tickets 
to single showings are not avail
able.
Home Econ 
Club Invites 
New Members
The Home Economics Club ex
tends an invitation to all interested 
students to come to its first meet
ing on Wednesday, October 20 at 
3:30 in MMCC Room 318.
Several members of the home 
economics department who trav
eled in this country and abroad 
during the summer will relate 
their experiences under the pro
gram theme, Symphony of Trav
el. There will be a social hour 
following the meeting. The theme 
that has been chosen for the year 
1954-55 is Symphony for Living.
Americans Panel 
Discuss Prejudice 
At Last Meeting
The Carnegie Tech Panel of 
Americans held its monthly dis
cussion meeting at the home of 
Audry Rosenthal on Sunday eve
ning, October 10.
The purpose of these meetings 
is to' help members clarify their 
own thinking and to become ac
quainted with the ideas of other 
students, faculty members, and 
civic leaders on subjects dealing 
with, or related to, inter-group 
living. The topic for this meeting 
was the Supreme Court decision 
against segregation and ramifica
tions of the decision. The guest 
speaker was Mr. P. L. Prattis, 
editor of the Pittsburgh Courier, 
leading Negro newspaper.
Mr. Prattis pointed out that 
segregation leads to an artificial 
civilization which harms both the 
segregated and the segregators. He 
reviewed the progress of WhiteNegro relations from the time of 
emancipation to the lowest ebb 
around 1900, and the steady road 
upwards to the present memora
ble achievement outlawing segre
gation. Mr. Prattis thought that 
the country is ready for immedi
ate and complete integration, and 
he considered the opposition as 
coming mainly from a small group 
of political opportunists and rab
ble 'rousers.
Discussion Period
The usual question and discus
sion period followed Mr. Prattis 
talk. The questions were raised 
as to whether legal methods are 
the most satisfactory for accom
plishing social change, and what 
the rights of the Whites are in 
the matter. Mr. Prattis felt that 
legal pressure certainly is neces
sary, and that the Southern states 
were given ample opportunity to 
plead their case before the Su
preme Court; thus their rights 
were not violated.
It was also brought out that 
prejudice could not be eliminated 
until segregation is abolished, be
cause it is necessary to have per
sonal contact on an equal basis to 
overcome ones prejudices.
The effect of the Supreme Court 
decision on Pittsburgh was also 
discussed by Mr. Prattis and 
members of the panel. Although 
there is little active discrimination 
in the city, some of the surround
ing communities still allow dis
crimination in hotels, restaurants, 
and until recently even in schools. 
Housing was pointed out as being 
a particularly bad situation. Em
ployment has improved considera
bly with the aid of the Pittsburgh 
Fair Employment Practices Com
mission law.
After the formal meeting re
freshments were served and dis
cussion in small groups continued.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS 
 TRY US FIRST 
Oakland Hardware
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
LET'S GO TO
ISA L Y 'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
' District
5808 FORBES STREET
SQUIRREL HILL
3714 FORBES STREET
OAKLAND
Maint Plant:
3386 BLVD. of the ALLIES
Over The Skibo Table
B Joseph A. Szewc
Jesse Quatse, Sr., Techs line coach, was probably the happiest 
man in Forbes field when Jesse, Jr. scored the first Carnegie Tech 
touchdown of his career against Johns Hopkins. Jesse, Sr., who was 
spotting in the press booth next to the WEDO radio box, let out 
a tremendous war whoop when his son drove into the end zone. This 
type of action is typical of the jovial coach whose pleasing per
sonality has gained his many friends among the Tech players. Tip
ping the scales at 265, the former All-American from Pitt has a 
krtack for telling tall tales while illustrating a block to the line
men, thus making football a little more pleasant for the men who 
play in the forward wall.* # #
Chuck Moyer, WEDOs play-by-play sportscaster, and 'his 
radio crew sent a reply to this reporter concerning the item which 
appeared in this column last week. (WEDO did not broadcast 
the first quarter of the Carnegie Tech-Johns Hopkins game be
cause of unconnnected power lines in their booth.) The reply is 
as follows:
Dear Joe
. . . there are four radio booths in Forbes field. We were 
forced to take the dead one because Jesse Quatse was occupying 
the other three . . .
Yours truly,
Chuck Moyer and the WEDO staff.
* * *
A printer's goof fouled up in the printing of a paragraph in 
this column last week. The original item was to be read in the
following manner: The morals of the campus must be' up. Sales of
pulp magazines, as compared with a similar time last year, have 
gone down. Wait until Mickey Spillane writes a new novel.* * *
Little quickies: Men cheered and women screamed as Skibo 
lowered the price of coffee from seven to'five cents. Student 
Council must have put the pressure on . . . Epigram of the 
week; When a girl says a mans heart is in the right place, she 
means its in the palm of her hand . . . Best of luck to the kids 
starring in Lysistrata. The play opens this Saturday in the Little 
Theater . . . The cheerleaders would appreciate more students 
coming to the pep rallies. Lets show the team were behind them 
and get on the stick.* * *
The Observer in last weeks Tartan lambasted the bookstore 
for its policy of requiring that students leave their books on tables 
outside the doorways. The Observer also in this same column 
criticized a soft-boiled kumquat of a matron who chewed out a 
freshman for violating the edict.
Latest development in the casea sign in the bookstore entitled 
Dont be a kumquat.
OniEO UNDER AUTHORITY Of Tht COCA -COLA COMPANY if
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OK PITTSBURGH 5199 Center Avenue lUUnd 1 *<tl|
Cok" it a registered trad* morii.c ewlmh ofr #b#v #bv #bnI

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 19, 1954
ditorial
Athletic Field
With football in the air and Tech com
piling one of the best seasons in recent years 
on the gridiron it is only natural to ask what 
has happened to the proposed plans for a 
football and athletic field on the Tech cam
pus. Plans released some time ago call for 
the razing of Whitfield Hall and other build
ings on that side of Forbes street and the 
leveling of the hill into the Tech bowl. The 
football field would then be turned ninety 
degrees so as to run perpendicular to Forbes 
street and Margaret Morrison street. Stands 
would then be erected around the field. The 
basement floor of Donnar Hall could then be 
used as a field house.
There are many reasons why Tech needs 
an athletic field such as the one suggested.
Since early 1930 the school has not had a 
football field it could call its own to play 
home games on. The football fields of both 
Pitt stadium and Forbes Field have been 
used. When the school was a big name power 
in football a large sized stadium was needed.
Instead of crowds of 25,000 to 30.000 the aver
age attendance is likely to be a tenth of the 
above figures. What happens is that fans are 
actually lost in Forbes Field. The largest 
crowds take up only a small part of the 
stands. The stands are so far from the field 
of play that it is hard for people to stay interested. It is more 
like watching a game on television at home than actually 
being there.
The presence of a field on the Tech campus should induce 
better attendance. All of the facilities would be concentrated 
on campus and much more accessible to both dorm students 
and commuters. The school finds itself in the strange position 
of having too adequate facilities, which in this case, is just 
as bad as inadequate facilities.
For some time the school has been in the need of a track 
field. The one used in the bowl at the present time is in 
terrible shape. It is remarkable that there have been no in
juries during the past several years due to the condition of 
the track. This athletic field could also serve as an outdoor 
auditorium for pep-rallies and other all-school functions. 
There is not one place, outside of the Gym, at the present 
time which will hold the entire student body. The field could 
also be used for playoffs in intramural sports that draw large 
crowds.
A new athletic field would clear up the most unsightly 
messes n the Tech campus. The barracks, parking lot, and 
bowl are eyesores that have plagued the campus for years. 
They are no credit to this institution and should be replaced 
as soon as possible.
With the exception of a new student union and central 
library there is no other addition to the physical plant which 
the school needs more. Even though the new mens dorm is 
nearing completion and construction on new fraternity hous
ing is about to start it is no time for the administration to 
sit back and relax. The school still needs many additions to 
its physical plant. The administration should investigate all 
means within its power, as soon as possible, to make proposed 
plans realities instead of them taking up desk space.
P.D.C.
WRCT 
SCHEDULE
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hours MUseum 3-2312, for advertising and subscription rates 
call MUseum 2-3990. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief ........................ ........................................................................Paul Carmichael
Executive Editor ................................................................................................................Wilson Sick
Business Manager ............................................................. ....................................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor ........................................................................ ........................................Jo Forsythe
News Editor ....................................................................................................................June Sochatoff
Sports Editor ...............................................................................................................Lenny Feldman
Copy EditorBob Russell. Advertising ManagerMarty Ostroff. Assistant 
Business ManagerVic Shiry. Circulation ManagerDon Gross. Office Manager 
Joyce Wright. Photography EditorBarbara Toia. Features EditorJoe Szwec. 
He porterMarilyn Casey, Stephanie Mackay, Anne Mehler, Pat Mitchell, Dottie 
Scarf, Joanne Babbitt, Marjo King, Arthur Marino, Barbara Robeson, Carolou 
Fidder, Sally Day. Peggy Heath, Dolores Chidester, Evelyn Alessio, Janet Bishop, 
Kay Melenyzer, Juli Wehousie. Sports StaffJames Lacey. Art StaffCarolyn 
Copp, Harold MacDonald, Robert Connell. Make-Up StaffTom Wright, Jack 
Recker, Paul Doebler, Hayden Duensing. Advertising StaffRobert Sorkin, Harly 
Bembach, Frank Zonis, Herbert Kriendler. Circulation StaffSheldon Cremer, 
Barry Reisman. TypistsMary Langdon, Anne Barnes, Marjorie Forster. Copy Banner-Ronald Kohl.
The Observer
Not since the days of Doctor Frankenstein has 
the scientist been subjected to such close scrutiny 
by the layman. Monsters surprisingly enough have 
a penchant for bothering their creators. As a re
sult of his loyalty investigation, monster-maker Oppenheimer has precipitated a mass of survey data 
that attempts to characterize a few other top Amer
ican scientists. An engineering campus might find 
a few of these figures interesting. The survey jus
tifies no general conclusions, but may be of some 
academic interest.
Of 104 scientists considered as the most out
standing of Americas 5000 university-employed 
PhJD.s researching in the pure sciences, 8? returned 
questionnaires from which the following informa
tion was taken.
A breakdown by profession yields:
27 Physicists 
24 Biologists
21 Chemists
10 Psychologists
8 Astronomers 
7 Mathematicians
Are most scientists social Oppenheimers?
(Oppenheimer never owned a radio or tele
phone, seldom read newspapers, and voted for the 
first time at 32 years of age.)
75% Doubt more than 2% are like Opp.
22% Doubt more than 10% are like Opp.
3% A significant percentage like Opp.
Does the scientist have a right to be poorly in
formed? (other than science-wise.)
No. 74%
Yes. 26%
Religious affiliations of the 87 are striking:
The 7 scientists received Ph.D.s from educa
tional institutions as follows:
U. of California
Harvard
U. of Chicago
Princeton
Columbia
Cal. Tech.
Rochester
Yale
Other schools 
(All Other schools
No. Ph.D.s 
17 
15
11 
6
5 
4
4
3
22
conferred a maximum of
one or two degrees among the 87. CIT presented 
one.) Private schools provided basic education to 
22% of the scientists. (A normal U.S. population 
sends 1 per 100 to a private school.)
Where were these top U.S. scientists bom 
City Population % among 87 born in City
2500 11%
50-100,000 ^ 18%
to 1,000,000 * 14%
above 1,000,000 N 32%
Coul the 87 scientists name any industrial sci
entists who, in their opinion, were comparable in 
ability to outstanding academic scientists?
Only 47% replied Yes.
Each industrial scientist had to receive more 
than 1 vote for the group of 87 academic scientists 
to be considered distinguished. Those distin
guished industrial scientists cited by the 87 aca
demic scientists were employed as follows: Of 7
Tuesday
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Serenade in Blue 
7:30Radio Federation 
8:00The Masters Per
form 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor.Hour 
11:00News 
11:05:Night Train 
11:55Sign Off
Wednesday 
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Campus Hilights 
7:30Montovani 
8:00Musical History 
9:00Career Hoar 
9:45Democratic Cam
paign
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:001-News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off
Thursday 
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15tSerenade in Blue 
7:30Radio Federation 
8:00Ye Olde Curiosity 
Shoppe 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off 
Friday 
7:00:Sign on, News
7:15Navy Star Time 
7:30Radio Federation 
8:30Light Music 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05TGIF Club 
11:55Sign Off 
Sunday 
1:45Sign on, News 
2:00WRCT Symphony 
Hour 
3:00Sunday Pops 
Concert 
6:00News
6:05Album of Favor
ites
7:00Penthouse Seren
ade 
8:00News 
8:05Concert Hall 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off 
Monday 
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Campus Hilights 
7:30Radio Federation 
8:30French Master - 
works 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off
Beginning this week, several new programs 
have been added to our schedule: The Career Hour, 
Ye Olde Curiosity Shoppe, and Radio Federation, 
to name a jew.
Ye Olde Curiosity Shoppe begins its second year 
on WRCT this Thursday night when it presents 
hit songs of the 1920s and 30s.
Radio Federation is also unique in that it does 
not originate in training school located on Clyde 
Street. They will present recorded show tunes and 
dramatic productions throughout the year.
These are just some of the special fea,tures of 
your cavipus radio station. Keep posted by watching for our program schedule each week in the 
TARTAN.
Open Letter
C Club Speaks
First of all, the Varsity C Club would like to 
thank all those who attended the Varsity C Club 
Scholarship Dance on October 9. And to those 
people in the administration and student body who 
gave us their cooperation and time, we wish to 
express our gratitude. It is the feeling of this 
organization that you have aided a good cause; 
the attempt to establish a scholarship fund to be 
used to help some deserving freshman athlete.
However, orchids cannot be given to three fra
ternities on this campus. Nine fraternities gave 
jus their unasked aid by scheduling only regular 
house parties on this evening but three such or
ganizations displayed their lack of consideration 
and evident distinterest in the goals of the C Club 
by sponsoring costume parties of various rank and 
description. The C Club is not interested or con
cerned with those people dressed in pajamas who 
prefer to ride around Oakland in a yellow conver
tible. We are interested, however, in those people 
who may have attended the dance, but through so
cial pressures brought about by the aforementioned 
parties, stayed at the fraternity house.
The Varsity C Club does not wish to appear 
martyred, so we shall state the reasons behind 
our feelings.
1. The Varsity C Club Scholarship dance is the 
only social function of its type on Carnegie Techs 
campus that is presented for a distinct and worthy 
cause.
2. The fraternities and commuters were taken 
into consideration when the final hours of the dance 
were decided upon. Being over at midnight, we felt 
the fraternity men would have ample opportunity 
to return to their houses and a party. It also gave
the commuters plenty of time to return home or to 
their respective destination.
3. The dance was placed on the all-school social 
calendar in early spring. This gave every social 
chairman of every fraternity an early notice so 
that conflicting social events would not be sched
uled.
To all the fraternities and people who gave us 
their help in making the dance a success, we again 
say thank you. To those three fraternities that 
did rot, we can only say that it was a typical 
display of their school spirit and cooperation.
The Varsity C Club.
companies named, 5 employed a maximum of 2 
distinguished scientists:
Lederle Div. American Cyanimid.
Merck, Koak/ I.B.M., Shell Oil.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 19, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage f
Gridders Triumph Over Geneva IS-7
tf
GVJ
Backfield
Techs backfield, now recognized 
as outstanding in its class, is rep
resented by such-outstanding stars 
as Bill Kennedy, Roy DeVries, and 
Guy Carricato. All three whet 
their teeth on a pigskin in gradeschool sandlot ball, and all were 
active in high school sports. Ken
nedy, vice-president of his senior 
class at Peabody high school, spent 
four years on the football varsity, 
starred in basketball, and was a 
member of the all-city baseball 
team. After earning a letter in 
football, DeVries was injured in 
his first year of high school play, 
but mar. .ged to continue in his
by Jim Lacey
tra.ck career and to letter twice in 
this sport. Carricato, a peer of his 
team-mates, was a three-letter 
man in high school football and a 
participant in basketball, and took 
honorable mention in high school 
class C.
Kennedy, a civil engineer, and 
Carricato, a mech. aero, engineer, 
are seniors, while DeVries, a 
printer, is in his junior year at 
Tech. All three have participated in 
intramurals: Kennedy in basket ~ 
ball, softball, volleyball, and wa
ter polo; Carricato in basketball, 
and DeVries in all. Carricato and 
[Continued on page 6]
? By Jim Lacey
That Plaid offensive machine kept moving in high gear Saturday, as Tech turned two 
Geneva mistakes into touchdowns, that not only spoiled the Covenanters perfect record 
but their homecoming as well. Tech notched its fourth straight victory of the campaign 
and virtually assured the Tartans of clinching the class B district title.
Tech found itself behind 7-6 as< 
the fourth quarter began, and 
after taking a Geneva punt on 
the Covenanters 43 yard line, 
drove down the field for a TD;
Jesse Quatse going over for the 
score. Roy DeVries booted 
extra point to give the Highland 
Boys a 13-7 margin. Later in the 
period Tech put the game on ice, 
as Frank Wenzgryn broke through 
the Geneva line to block a punt 
which rolled out of the end 
for an automatic safety to add the 
final points, making the score 
15-7.
At the start of the game both 
teams were bogged down by 
rain soaked field, with the 
holding the upper hand most of 
the way. The Tartan offensive 
finally got going as Wenzgryn 
recovered a fumble on his own 
43 yard line. On one play, a pass 
from Bill  Kennedy to Art McGuigan ate up 56 yards, from the 
Tech 42 to the Geneva three yard 
line. DeVries went over for the 
score. DeVries made the conver
sion, but a penalty forced him to 
try again and he missed. This is 
the way the half ended, with Tech 
in the lead 6-0. Tempers were a 
little touchy 'and flared up late in 
the second period, with the result 
that Marshall Brown and Gyle 
Bergman were tossed out of the 
game for fighting.
Geneva, though they never 
really threatened, flashed back in 
the middle of the third period 
when Jim Shumaker stole the ball 
from Phil Jeske as Phil went to 
lateral on a quarter back option 
and was hit on his own 12 yard 
line. Shumaker then lateralled to 
Ray Peduzzi who ran to paydirt.
Sam Perrino converted to give 
the Covies a short lived, 7-6 lead.
The Scots struck back on the 
opening play of the fourth period 
and scored a TD and a safety to 
sew up the game.
At half-time, Genevas home
coming ceremony Was interrupted
first score against Geneva in the second 
looking for the referees signal.
for Techs 
Jeske (43) is seen
by a downpour, but just before 
the teams came out for the second 
half the sun came out producing 
a rainbow that ended on the play
ing field. For a while it looked like 
the pot of gold belonged to Gen
eva; but the Highland boys took 
it home in their duffle bag, along 
with their fourth straight victory.
Walt Dwyers passing kept the 
Covies in the game, as Techs 
stout-ribbed defensive wall again 
played an outstanding game, hold
ing the opposition down to 34 
yards gained on the ground. Due 
to the wet ground, Techs running 
game, particularly the end run 
plays, were bogged down.
Next week Tech hosts the Edenboro State Teachers team at 
Forbes field.
Statistics
CARNEGIE TECH15
LEFicery, McGuigan, Berwick.
LTWenzgryn, Butler.LGKarcher, Novak.
CSchell, Kohan.
RGWilliamson, Jones, Tagliavini.
RTMcCarthy, Thomas, Luckey,REHrosik, Stofan.
QBJeske, Tu.cci.
LHMiller, Briner.
RHDeVries, Kennedy.
FBBrown, Quatse, Peoples, Blatt. GENEVA7
LEPrice.
LTCampbell.
LGJtey Peduzzi, Lucas, Howell.
C-Lazor, Tuttle.
RGRon Peduzzi, Perrino.
RTSchumaker, Campbell.
REMartinetti, Penkova.QBDwyer.LHBergmen, Mancini.
RHHaney, Falcone.
FBLedrick, Komara.
Carnegie Tech 0 6
Geneva 0 0Carnegie Tech scoring: TouchdownsDeVries, Quatse. Conversion  DeVries 
(placement). Safety: Carnegie Tech (au
tomatic, punt blocked and ball went out 
of end zone).Geneva scoring: TouchdownPeduzzi.
ConversionPerrino.CARNEGIE TECH GENEVA
11 .................. First downs .................. 8 5..................... Fumbles .......................... 2
7..................... Penalties .......................... 3
45............... Yards penalized ........................ 25
 6........................ Punts .......................... 8
1 2............ Passes attempted ...... 21
6....... Passes completed ...................... 9
100.................. Yards passing .................. 84
113.................. Yards rushing .................. 31
915 0 7
The truly superior Winston filter doesnt 
thin the taste or flatten the flavor. New 
Winstons are king-size for extra filtering
action  and easy-drawing for extra good Winston tastes good 
taste. Try a pack of Winstons. Youll really like a cigarette should!
enjoy 'em! WINSTON ...the easy-drawing filter cigarette!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
 All over America college smokers are flock
ing to Winstonthe new filter cigarette real 
smokers can enjoy! Winstons got real flavor 
 full, rich, tobacco flavor! Along with finer 
flavor, Winston brings you a finer filter. Its 
unique, its different, it works so effectively!

---------------------------------------------------

Page fiCARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 19, 1954
Employment Opportunities
VENEZUELA
CREOLE PETROLEUM CORPORATION
An Affiliate of Standard Oil Co. (N.J.)
Rep rese 11 lat ves of Creole will le on the campus on
Tuesday, Nov. 2
to interview unmarried graduates with majors
in ENGINEERING, PHYSICS and GEOLOGY
See vour Placement Director for interview schedules
Like Plaids? Weve Scads!
all ARROW-labeled for comfort and style
Fall without a plaid shirt? Get off it, man! Its a basic 
item on every campus, and Arrow has plaids aplenty 
for every man . . . right now! Theyre bright, bold, 
neat or quiel. Why not fall into your campus dealer 
and slip on a new Arrow plaid shirt. Theyre good for 
the soul . . . and relaxing on the budget. Priced at 
$5.00 up.
AB/lOW CASUAL WEAR
SHIRTS  TIES  UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS
SAEs 21, Kappa Sigs 20
The Tartan League again provided thegames of the week when the Phi Kaps met the 
Kappa Sigs, and when the Kappa Sigs met the SAEs. The Phi Kaps, who were fighting 
for a berth in the playoffs, lost to the Kappa Sigs in a hard fought battle that saw a pass 
to Hyams score the margin of difference.
In the battle of the un
beaten, the SAEs came through 
with an unblemished record by 
benefit of one point: score, 21-20.
Fedor again was hitting his mark 
as two of his passes were good 
for five points each. The 
activity in the Tartan League saw 
the Tech Gems come from behind 
in the last minute of play to down 
the Static Charges, 24-23, while 
the ATOs romped over the ASCE 
team, 38-14.
The Delts continued their per
fect record by adding a forfeit to 
the winning column, while the 
TX's maintained their tie for the 
lead by beating, 37-14, the Tau 
Delts, who also lost to the PiKAs 
by the score of 24-4. In a low 
scoring game, the Eagles pulled 
past the AIEE, 10-8.
The DUs, who are still tied for 
first, took the measure of the 
Betas, 30-4, while their co-leader,
Sigma Nu, squeezed by the ATO 
B team, 16-12. In the only oth
er activity, the ATO B team 
beat the Beta Sigs, 13-7, and the 
Obelisks won their game with the 
Newman Club 10-8.
Tartan League
SAEw.
3
L.
0
KS31
ATO A21
Tech Gems21
Static Charges02
ASCE02
Phi Kap03
Kiltie
DTD
Leaguew.
3
L.
0
TX30
PiKA21
Eagles21
TDP13
Citcom03
AIEE03
Sklbo
DU
Leaguew.
3
L.
0
SN30
Obelisks21
Newman12
Betas12
ATO B13
BSR03
Tony Ginetti, quarterback for the Phi Kaps, trying to turn right 
end in a game last week. Hard play has dominated all games.
Backfield
[Continued, from page 5]
DeVries are both members of the 
Varsity Club. The former is also a 
member of the IASME, while the 
latter, who holds two letters in 
track, runs a small printing press 
at his fraternity house. (Wed this 
past summer, Roy has been a mar
ried man for two months.) Bill 
Kennedy is a member of the ASCE 
and secretary of the Newman Club.
The three heartedly concur on the 
Lafayette game as one of their 
most exciting incidents in football. 
Kennedy also recalls the Tech-St. 
Vincent game in which he scored 
the deciding touchdown; Carricato 
considers CITs victory over Akron 
during his freshman year his big
gest thrill insofar as a team vic
tory is concerned; DeVries cites 
the first kickoff of his first game 
as a member of the Tartan squad 
simply because it was his first 
game in college varsity.
Bill Kennedy states that this is 
the best team Tech has produced in
the four years hes been here 
its also the first year hes seen the 
Tartans win their opening game. 
The teams spirit is highthis is 
our chance to go all the way and 
produce an outstanding record for 
the year.
The Tartans ai-e a teapi with 
the ability and confidence to go 
undefeated this year, say DeVries 
and Carricato, who feel that well 
be in excellent shape at least up 
until we meet Lehigh. They be
lieve, moreover, a part of the 
credit for the teams success should 
go to the spirited Red Raiders, 
whose willingness to play hard 
against the first and second teams 
using the other teams plays im
prove the other two squads by gi\^ 
ing them the practice they need. 
The individuals are in better phy
sical-condition because of the hard 
workouts they receive.
All three agree that the team is 
enthusiastic about playing for 
their coaches, and extend their 
special appreciation to Dr. Eddie 
BakerThe way he has been 
working us has certainly paid off 
in dividends.
Woods & Rain 
Give Harriers 
Second Lose
Carnegies Harriers journeyed to 
Slippery Rock for a meet with the 
Teachers, that was expected to be 
a warmup for the West Virginia 
meet this Tuesday. Instead, the 
runners for Tech came out on the 
losing side of the score 24-39.
_ The race was run in a downpour 
and over unfamiliar grounds, so 
that the Tartan runners could 
hardly see the markers, TSoing into 
the woods before the finish the 
Tartan runners were leading, with 
the first four being Gillies, Mac
Donald, Bryant, and Flynn. Upon 
coming out of the woods, the Slip
pery Rock runners were out in 
front. f
Coach Carman felt that some
thing was wrong and inquired 
among his charges, who promptly 
asked him where the Slippery 
Rock runners had come from as 
none of the Teachers distance men 
had passed any of the Tartans in 
the woods. What made it even 
more surprising is that one of the 
Tech men who had been trailing 
some of the State Teachers run
ners also came out in front of a 
couple of the top Tech runners. 
Officials of both high schools have 
been notified of the incident but 
no formal complaints have as yet 
been made.
IM Board 
Elections Held
The Intramural Board and Man
agers Club met and both held 
elections for officers. Dick Fieler 
of Sigma Nu was elected president 
of the IM Board, with Keith Kelsay of the Obelisks holding down 
the position of vice-president, 
while Jack Recker of ATO will 
take care of the duties of secre
tary - treasurer. The Managers
Club elected Saxton of Kappa 
Sigma as its president. The Board 
also announced the schedule of 
the Intramural program, and listed 
the entry dates of all sports.
Entries Play 
Due Begins 
Co-rec. Badminton Oct. 8 Oct. 11Wrestling Oct. 25 Dec. 7-8
Bridge Nov. 4 Nov. 8
Volleyball Npv. 10
Table Tennis Nov. 5
Basketball Dec. 15
All those interested in playing 
badminton singles and doubles 
check with gym office some time 
this week for entry dates.
Nov. 15 
Nov. 8 Jan. 6
IM Tennis
The fall tennis tournament is in * 
full swing with the first two rounds 
completed. In the all-school tour
nament there were 27 entrants, the 
varsity men not being allowed to 
participate. The varsity tourna
ment, which has yet to complete its 
second round, had 16 entrants, sev
eral of whom defauted. All play
ers are urged by the IM depart
ment to complete their games as 
soon as possible, and has set a 
deadline for the play of each 
round. The third round in both 
tournaments should be completed 
by the end of this week.
Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Botillo* Ca., Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
TRY USFIIO aklnSl 
FII dnHra IwdHe Fdl 
EdSm rn ISwd mSIIp
Birr THEN HE FELL ASLEEP 
IN CLASS AND FAILED 
TO RING THE SELL!
LEARN/ED TO 
KEEP ALERT THE EASY NOpOZ WAYTHIS HANDY, SAFE AWAKENER 
HAS REALLY 
SAVED THE DAY15 TABLETS i
35c SAFE AS COFFEE

---------------------------------------------------

^fABltSS^OiDICK
Tuesday, October 19, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage 
Mr. Allen Fletcher 
To Again Advise 
Scotch n Soda
Once again, the Scotch and Soda 
Club is fortunate in having as its 
faculty adviser Allen Fletcher, who 
last year helped to make the SnS 
presentation of One in a Million 
the tremendous success that it was.
Mr. Fletcher, an extremely tal
ented director, has been associated 
with the theater for many years, 
and he is thoroughly familiar with 
all phases of the dramatic arts. He 
is a man who is possessed of an 
unusually keen sense of insight,
Secretarial
The Secretarial Club will 
meet Wednesday, October 20, 
in MMCC Recreation Hall at 
4:30 p.m. The speaker will be 
Sara Henderson Hay. New 
members are invited to at
tend.
DON'T SHOOT I KNEWFOSDICK-1 r YOU WERE RIGHT CONFESS'/ fl OLD PAL-HOW'D
-y-r-ypv ^=p4 'KXJSPOr M MSP,I ut21ua- . y
GET INTO THIS BUT, CHIEFSTRAIGHT- IT'S ANVJACKET, POS* FACE, IN
DICK/r-YOU'VE ONEOF HIS 
GONE MAD.r.r J WORST 
 ..........I .......DISGUISES.?
MY JEWELS.? YOU DID ITSTOLENf.' J YOU CROOKED 
Urn. Jb LOVE-SEAT"
W3S5T&
4^HAIR WONT STAY COMBEDP GET WtLDPOOT CREAM-OlL.CHARLIE.ft AMERICAS FAVORITF^Alien Fiefcher
S n S Advisor
and his patience and thoughtful
ness' in regard to all of his associa
tions with the students of Carnegie 
Tech have won him the admiration 
and respect of all those fortunate 
enough to have worked with him.
While at college, Mr. Fletcher 
directed several shows similar in 
nature to those presented by SnS. 
He was .warded his B.A. and M.A. 
by Stanford University and upon 
graduation, spent one year at the 
v Yale University School of Drama. 
vMr. Fletcher, who is an instructor 
in the drama department, recently 
became the proud father of a love
ly baby boy.
We hope that his association 
with the Scotch and Soda club will 
prove as pr fitable to all concerned 
as it did last year.
TOMATO SANDWICH MADE 
BY AMATEUR TOMATO 
SANDWICH MAKER
GLASS HOUSE OWNED 
BY MAN WHO NEVER HEARD 
OF OLD PROVERB
OUTSIDE WORLD 
AS SEEN BY LITTLE MAN 
LIVING IN BEER CAN
What makes a Lucky taste better?ITSTOASTED
GLASS OF BEER WITH 
HOLE IN ITS HEAD
HAMMOCK DESIGNED BY 
MAN WHO INVENTED THE 
STRAPLESS EVENING GOWN
Doubtless, youve guessed that the Droodle 
at the right is: Careless two-gun cowboy 
enjoying better-tasting Lucky while wait
ing in ambush. Lots of other two-gun cow
boysand many millions of no-gun folks 
agree that LuCkies taste better. Students, 
for example, prefer Luckies to all other 
brands, according to the latest, biggest 
coast-to-coast college survey. Once again, 
the No. 1 reason is that Luckies taste 
better. They taste better because Lucky 
Strike is the cigarette of fine tobacco . . . 
and Its Toasted to taste better. Its 
Toastedfthe famous Lucky Strike proc
esstones up Luckies* light, mild, goodtasting tobacco to make it taste even 
better. So, enjoy the better-tasting ciga
rette . . . Lucky Strike.
asks ROGER PRICE
author of 
The Rich Sardine
for solution see 
paragraph at left
New^'Silvered-Tip" writes 
the way you do ... fine, 
medium or broad .. with
out changing points. Re
fills available in blue, red, i 
green or black ink. Get a j 
Paper-Mate Pen todayI m
 Bankers approve
 Ink cant sine 
or transfer
 Cant leak
GOT A LUCKY DROODLE?
If youve got a Lucky Droodle in your 
noodle, send it in. We pay $25 for aU we 
use, and also for many we don't use. 
Send as many as you like with your 
descriptive titles to: Lucky Droodle, 
P. O. Box 67, New York 46, N. Y.
? DROODLES, Copyright, 1954, ly Roger Me
Silvered-Tip 
refills... 49t
FairTradedLUCKIES TASTE BETTER Cleaner,Fresher, Smoother!
WOBBCT W Jtotuueeun, JoGu&eoJtnyuztw auericas lsaoiko MAXurACTuncit or cioarbttsi

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 19, 1954
Symphony Opens 
This Friday Night 
With Steinberg
The Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra will open its 28th season 
this Friday evening at 8:40 p.m. 
and Sunday afternoon at 3:10 p.m. 
at Syria Mosque with an all-or
chestra program of Bach, Debussy 
and Tschaikovsky. William Stein
berg will be on the podium to com
mence his third year as the or
chestras musical director and con
ductor.
The program will open with the 
Bach Passacaglia and Fugue in C 
Minor, transcribed for orchestra 
by Ottorino Respighi, noted for his 
colorful orchestrations. Following 
this will be the familiar La Mer 
by the noted French impressionist, 
Claude Debussy. Written in three 
parts, this composition gives us 
perhaps the most vivid tone paint
ing of the sea in all of symphonic 
literature.
The program will be concluded 
with one of the most familiar and 
best loved symphonies ever writ
ten, Tschaikovskys Symphony No.
5 in E Minor. All of the melodies 
and poignant pathos that charac
terize so much of his music are 
present in this most familiar work. 
Many of Tschaikovskys melodies 
were lifted to become hit popular 
songs. Among those that will be 
recognized by many in the audi
ence is Moon Love.
Season tickets for the entire 20 
concerts in the regular subscrip
tion series are still available at the 
Symphony office, 1305 Farmers 
Bank Building, Pittsburgh. Single 
tickets are on sale at the Kaufmanns box office, personal service 
counters at Gimbels and Homes, 
or at the Syria Mosque box office 
during the hour preceding each 
concert.
Sivimming
Candidates for the swim
ming: team should report to 
Coach Sofield at the swim
ming: pool on Monday, No
vember 1 at 4:30 p.m.
Organ Recital 
Was Presented
Two sisters presented an organ 
recital at the Fine Arts Theatre 
on Sunday, October 17. Both are 
Carnegie Tech : lumnae who have 
been teaching in public school 
systems before returning to Car
negie Tech for graduate work. 
The recital was given as partial 
fulfilment of requirements for the 
Master of Fine Arts degree in
I music.
Miss Hazel Aileen Hay has 
taught music in the public school 
systems of Apollo and Rochester. 
Miss Millicent Garland Hay has 
taught in Butler and also in Apol
lo. At present the sisters run a 
large class in piano at New Kens
ington.
Prelude and Fugue in D Major 
and a choral prelude by Bach was 
rendered by Miss Hazel Aileen 
Hay. She concluded with two 
movements from the First Sym
phony by Vierne.
Job Opportunities
Wallace S. Dooley, manager of 
the Social Security office at 114 
Sheridan Square, East liberty, 
said the Civil Service Commis
sion has just announced a  series 
of examinations for junior pro
fessional assistant, grade GS-5, to 
meet a shortage. Applications 
will be taken until further no
tice. Information about the exam
ination can be secured from the 
East Liberty Social Security of
fice, phone EM 2-0600. Applica
tion forms are obtainable from 
the Civil Service Commission, 
1018 New Federal Building, Pitts
burgh.
Open House
fContinued from page 1] 
cell, and a magnet of such force 
that no human being can pull an 
attracted object away from it. 
Also, a movie of the syncrocyclotron in Ssaxonburg will be 
shown.
One of the most striking demon
strations in the mechanical engi
neering demonstrations is an airconditioning unit made by Car
negie students from a World War
II portable ice-making plant. 
Visitors will have an opportunity 
to see a continuous movie, show
ing aspects of the U. S. Army in 
action. Weapons and equipment 
used by the corps of engineers 
will also be on display. Students
in the College of Fine Arts will 
present a musical program, and 
the Carnegie theatre will be open 
for conducted tours backstage.
At Margaret Morrison a historic 
costuming class will be in session. 
There will be on displays of food 
gadgetry. dress making, kitchen 
planning, housing, and home fur
nishing. The child psychology lab
oratory will be open to the public. 
The School of Printing Manage
ment will display a three dimen
sional model of a magazine pub
lishing plant.
The Open House will also pro
vide for consultation with fac
ulty members about career and 
educational opportunities. Guests 
will be welcome to call at offices 
where they can learn about stu
dent life, scholarships, admissions, 
student guidance, health services, 
summer programs, evening and 
graduate work, and placement af
ter graduation.
Vic Vet says
VETERANS NEEDING DENTAL CARE
IBE TRHNGSRFSOVVRSMRiNONCOMPENSABLE DENTAL CON
DITIONS OR DISABILITIES MUST 
APPLY TO VA BY PEC. 31,1954, 
OR ONE YEAR AFTER DISCHARGE 
WHICHEVER IS LATER ...
hS----------------m
For full information contact your nearest VETERANS ADMINISTRATION oflfica
WANTED
5 AMBITIOUS STUDENTS
By national firm for training in sales posi
tions. Earn $35 to $65 weekly. No canvass
ing. Car necessary. Call Mr. .Nicklas at HI 
1-5315 for appointment.
Hillel Group Held 
First Brunch This 
Year Last Sunday
Carnegies Hillel Group held a 
brunch on Sunday, October 10, at 
which Professor Schwarz spoke on 
anti-semitism in Austria and Ger
many as he observed it during his 
trip to Europe during the summer.
The next brunch will be held at 
the Carnegie Union on Sunday, 
October 31, at 12:00. Dr. Milton 
Sussman, whose column, As I See 
It, appears weekly in the Jewish 
Criterion, will speak on Modern 
Trends in Jewish Living. The 
$.50 admission charge includes 
bagel and lux.
Hillels officers for the coming 
year are as follows: President,
Harvey Breverman; Vice Presi
dent, Rachel Katz; Secretary, Dor
othy Scharf; Treasurer, Jim Edelson. *
Plans for this year include fire
side chats to be held every Thurs
day evening at 7:30 in the Faculty 
Club. Socials and mixers will also 
be included in the schedule.
authentic
University
model
tuxedo ..
now in
brand
lightweight
year-round
worsted
lor name of nnrnl rtlailo and Itre formal drei than, writ?
natural 
shoulders, 
narrow 
shawl lapel, 
jlap pockets, 
center vent, 
non-pleated 
trousers
JACK WEBB AND BEN ALEXANDER
You know them best as Sgt. Joe Friday and Officer Frank 
Smith stars of Chesterfields award-winning Dragnet 
on TV and Radio. Theyre now starred in the movies, 
too, in Warner Bros. great new picture, Dragnet.
WHAT A BUY! Chesterfield regular and kingsize. (Both at the same price in most places).
Jack Webb and Ben Alexander want what you want 
from a cigarette. Relaxation, comfort, satisfaction. They 
know where to find itbecause in the whole wicie world, 
no cigarette satisfies like a Chesterfield.
Chesterfields are best to smoke because they alone 
have the right combination of the worlds best tobaccos. 
Chesterfields are best for you because theyre highest 
in quality, low in nicotine.
Try a carton of Chesterfields today;
LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE 
IN AMERICAS COLLEGES
 MaxSh u lmn Toncco Co.
