I
Gickler
UMOC Peng
Crow d Of 2,000 H ears 
DC; ATO Take Sing Honors
Repeating, if not exceeding, last years excellent performance, Alpha Tau Omega last Friday night 
won for themselves a first place in fraternity competition for Greek Sing. It is the first time in the his
tory of this Geek weekend that any fraternity has won first place two years in a row. The team, coacheded and directed by Bob Hamilton, gave a premier performance of The Travelers and sang the con
ductors arrangement of Surrey With the Fringe On Top. ?----------------------------------------------------
Delta Gamma, led by Greta Gil-4--------------------------------------------------
martin, was awarded first place in 
;(>rority competition for its ren
dition of The Pines Mystery and 
All In The Golden Afternoon. 
Second place trophies went to 
Kappa Sigma and Chi Omega. 
Third and four places in sorority 
competition were taken by Kappa
Kappa Gamma and Delta Delta 
Delta. The trophy for third place 
fraternity competition went to 
Beta Theta Pi, while Delta Upsilon and Sigma Nu were rated 
fourth and fifth. The fraternity 
[continued on page 7]
Alpha Tau Omega
81 Pledgedor To Sororities
Another whirlwind rushing sea
son has ended at Carnegie Tech. 
The happy result? Eighty-one 
girls are pledges of the sororities 
they desired, three of these were 
open bids.
Alpha Epsilon PhiEsther Co
hen, Jean Feldstein, Linda Gluitfiow, Sheila Lehrhaupt, Joyce 
Rayvid, Lynda Reubens, Judy 
Sufrin.
Chi OmegaKathy Ammannito, 
Bev Berky, Teddy Carafas, Pat 
Cunningham, June Darling, Diane 
Davis, Linda Herington, Judiann 
Klotz, Carol Lockwood, Jan Mad
den, Leila Moore, Carol Rea, Pat 
Sellors, Despo Stavres
Delta Delta Delta  Maggie 
Brown, Millie Babcock, Joyce 
Jawsen, Sally Ennis, Bev Hayes, 
Vivian Heinricher, Carolyn Hecker, Harriet Horn, Carol Knestrick, 
Ginny McKelway, Betsy Mat
thews, Jan Notopoulos, Judy Rau, 
Barb Srsic
Delta Gamma  Carol Claney, 
Toni Gualtieri, Eleanor Haase, 
Maryanne Hadel, Sue Leach, Ina 
Leonard, Mary IScannell. Barb 
Soleinger, Sue Trustman, Carol 
Emmel.
Kappa Alpha' Theta  Kathy 
Andrews, Grechen Friebertshauser, Sallie Johnson, Elaine Levenson, Harley' Patterson, Bev Pat
ton, Alice Peck, Kathy Sprout, 
Jean Sassaman, Jackie Thurston, 
Nancy Tull, Helene Wald.
Kappa Kappa Gamma  Ann 
Cargill, Sandy Goerlich, Barb 
Goetz, Trubie Kebe, Judy Heinsberg, Linda Loucks, Julie Ma
honey, Maggie OMalley, Judy 
cKee, Judy Simboli, Ann So
well, Wendy Steinberg, Ginny 
Vance, Jean Youngstrom
President Warner 
Chooses Johnson 
As Alumni Officer
President John C. Warner re
cently announced the appoint
ment of John G. Johnson as Ex
ecutive Secretary of the Alumni 
Federation, of Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. He will assume the 
duties July 1, following the re
tirement of the present Secretary, 
John L. Elliott. Mr. Johnson has 
served as Associate Secretary to 
the Federation since December 
1954.
In his new position Mr. John
son will be responsible for all ac
tivities affecting Carnegies 22,000 
[continued on page 8]
New Dean Needed 
As Foy Resigns
Carnegie Tech has not had a 
dean of women since March 1, 
when Dean Martha E. Foy resign
ed from her duties for reasons of 
health. She had been on leave of 
absence since mid-December. 
Temporarily Mrs. Raymond E. 
Parshall, wife of Dr. Parshall, di
rector of the Division of Student 
Personnel and Welfare, is helping 
out in the deans office. The ad
ministration is presently seeking a 
new dean of women.
In 1939 Dr. Foy received her
B.S. in education from Greenville 
College in Illinois. Later she earn
ed an M. Litt, and Ph.D. in sociol
ogy from the University of Pitts
burgh.
Sigma KappaJan Clarchick, 
Linda Crabb, Barbara Fisher, Ann 
Gray, Mary Kneeland, Adrienne 
Kriss, Maryann Turnquist, Mary 
Dale Kuhns, Judy Malinovich.
Delta Gamma
Jack Peng Wins 
Campus Coutest; 
Has Ugly Mug
Competition and campaigning 
UMOC this year was almost as 
keen as for Greek Sing. But Sat
urday night at Greek Swing Jack 
Peng of Beta Theta Pi was pro
claimed the uncontested winner of 
the Ugly Mug. He received 44% 
of the votes casta total of 
$108.87.
In second place was Walt Labys 
of Delta Tau Delta with a total of 
$52.2120% of the pennies cast. 
Morgan Edwards was in third 
place with $50.01. The other can
didates, their position, and the 
number of votes of each follows:
Cordic Will Present 
Queen Candidates .
Tomorrow at 12:00, the Fine Arts Little Theatre will be" bulging 
at its sides as the Carnegie Tech males crowd inside to view eleven of 
the campus more beautiful girls. Rege Cordic of KDKA will be on 
hand to present these candidates for Military Ball Queen.
 * Each sorority and all four towi1 ers in Morewood Gardens are 
j sponsoring one candidate. TheyTech Forum
Professor Robert Taylo- of 
the architecture department 
will speak at the last program 
of the Tech Community For
um on Tuesday, March 11 at 
7:30 p.m. in the GSIA auditor
ium. His topic will be A Look 
at Contemporary Architec
ture.
FourthJim Salton........18.77
FifthDave Parnas........7.26
SixthEd Choby ..........6.79
SeventhRon Barron. ..2.54
EighthWes Kasonic ...1.45
NinthBonturnoll ........1.42
TenthFrank Neubauer..19
Blake Berning, chairmanof the
contest, reported that at the end 
of the campaign $249.51 had been 
collected for Campus Chest. Ac
tually, $249.30 and one streetcar 
token collected. The token came 
out of Jack Pengs jar and was 
auctioned off to an A Phi O mem
ber for twenty-one cents. This 
to tal is about $72 over last years 
campaign which brought in ap
proximately $177.00.
Commencement
All students are requested 
to return the cards giving the 
Registrars Office information 
for engrossing names on the 
diplomas for June commence
ment. This applies to all can
didates for degrees  seniors 
and graduate students. The 
$10.00 graduation fee is pay
able by April 1.
Dr. Hart to Speak 
On Dostoievsky
Today at 11:30 a.m. the English 
department presented the fourth 
in a series of lectures in the Lit
tle Theater of the Fine Arts Col
lege.
The speaker, Dr. John Hart, dis
cussed the works of the famous 
Russian author, Fyodor Dostoiev
sky. His discourse included an an
alysis of the themes, the develop
ments in thought and some of the 
characters from Dostoievskys 
best-known novels, Crime and 
Punishment, The Brothers Kar
amazov, and Notes from the 
Underground.
The series will be concluded 
next week, Tuesday, Marcl\ 18, 
with a lecture by Professor Rob
ert C. Slack on the Shakespearean 
play, Measure for Measure.
I are as follows: A Tower, Ginna 
| Murphy, sophomore general stud
ies; B. Tower, Audrey Camp, junj ior home economics; C Tower, Sue 
Zacharias, freshman home eco
nomics; D Tower, Ann Cargill, 
sophomore general studies; Alpha 
Epsilon Phi, Sherry Okum, sopho
more P and D; Delta Gamma, 
Peggy Lengyel, junior P and D; 
Delta Delta Delta, Joan Litchfield, 
junior secretarial; Kappa Kappa 
Gamma, Bev Salvatore, junior 
general studies; Kappa Alpha 
Theta, Joanne Cronin, sophomore 
home economics: Chi Omega,
Ginny Austin, senior secretarial; 
and Sigma Kappa. Marlene Gerstner, sophomore home economics.
The entire male population will 
vote for the three finalists. To 
date, no time has been set for vot
ing, however, it should be an
nounced soon. Pictures of all the 
candidates will be posted in Ad
ministration Hall after the pre
sentations.
Due to the fact that the ROTC 
classes will be going outside some
what earlier this year, no time 
has been set for the finalist pre
sentations. It is expected that the 
classes will vote for one of the 
three finalists for Military Ball 
Queen approvimately one week 
before the Ball.
[continued on page 3]
Attention Seniors
Commencement exercises this 
June will be held on the Mall pro
vided that the weather is good. 
Otherwise they will take place in 
Syria Mosque. In either case there
is a tentative plan for a proces
sional of all seniors, those receiv
ing higher degrees, and faculty. 
A prominent guest speaker will be 
[continued on page 5J
In order that the first out-door graduation will be a suc
cess it is necessary to know approximately how many seats 
will be needed on the Mall. Each person receiving a degree 
on June 10 is asked to fill out this form indicating the num
bers of seats he will need for family and friends.
Number of Seats
Department
Please return this form to the Committee on Public Occasions 
AH 127 soon via intra-school mail.
Gym Classes 
Try Calisthenics 
See Letter 
Page 4
Fraternity Issue 
Draws Letter 
From CFP 
See Page 4
VOL. 51, No. 18CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUESDAY, MARCH 11, 195

---------------------------------------------------

Fage 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 11, 1958
We Will Interview On . . . 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19th
Engineers: * Chemical # Electrical 
Mechanical * Industrial
---------------------------------------------------- For Positions In-----*-------------------------------------------
Application Engineering Development Engineering
Sales Engineering Production Engineering
CUTLER-HAMMER, Inc.
Pioneer Electrical Manufacturers
MILWAUKEE. WISCONSIN
Collegiate Cultured Calendar
By Natalie Laird
Th m\isic department will 
sponsor a concert by the student 
chorus and orchestra under the 
direction of Roland Leich in Car
negie Music Hall on March 16, at 
8:30 p.m. The program will in
clude:
Mass No. 6 in Eb
t Major ............Franz Schubert
Patricia Sprow, soprano 
Bet' Badger, contralto 
John C. Wabrick, Jr., tenor 
Ronald Reich, tenor 
Jerry Veech, bass 
Chorus and orchestra 
To Be Sung of a Summer 
Night on the Water ....
Frederick Delius 
John C. Wabrick, Jr., tenor 
A Capella Chorus 
Two Madrigals for Mixed 
Voices'and Clarinet ....
Roland Leich 
First Performance 
Kenna Copeland 
Mezzo-soprano 
Michael Callara, clarinet 
Chorus
Blest Pair of 'Sirens ..........
C. Hubert H. Parry 
Chorus and orchestra 
Pittsburgh Opera 
The Pittsburgh Opera Company 
will present the final opera of 
this season^>n March 20 and 22 
at Syria Mosque. The company 
will do II Trovatore by Verdi 
under the musical direction of 
Richard Karp. Student tickets are 
available in the office of the
drama department. The cast for 
II Trovatore is:
Richard Cassilly ...Manrico 
Mija Novich .......Leonora
Louis Quilico ................Luna ;
Magery Meyer..............Acuzena
Joshua Hecht............Ferrandoir
Gloria Catizone ...................Inez
Frank Kerin ........................Ruiz
Pittsburgh Symphony 
Artur Rubinstein, the worlds
greatest living pianist, comes t6
Pittsburghs Syria Mosque Tues
day evening, April 8. Appearing 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra, Rubinstein will play 
three complete piano concertos on 
the program, a unique perform
ance in the fabled history of tml 
celebrated artist and the Pitts
burgh Symphony. The concerto 
to be heard will include Beethov
ens Piano Concerto No. 3 in e 
minor; Chopins Piano Concerto 
No. 2 in f minor; and Rachmanin
offs Piano Concerto No. 2 in c 
minor. Tickets for this one per
formance go on sale this week at 
Kaufmanns, Gimbels and^Horne, 
in Pittsburgh.
Rubinsteins triple performance 
in one concert appearance with 
the Pittsburgh Symphony April
8 is one of the most exciting mu
sical events of the year for the 
entire tri-state area. It will be 
the celebrated artists second ap
pearances here as many seasons 
but only his seventh appearance 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony in 
the last fifteen years.
 BUY YOUR THISTLE
College mans best friend
YOU SAVE TIME AND MONEY WHEN YOU GO BY GREYHOUND
Boston, Mass............$16.40
Buffalo, N. Y............ 7.00Charleston, W. Va.. 6.75 
Cincinnati, Ohio ... 8.35
Cleveland, Ohio ... 4.05
Chicago, HI...............12.60
New Orleans, La... 24.95 
New York City ... 10.95 
Philadelphia ...... 8.65
Washington, D. C... 7.45
All prkM phi* taxGREYHOUND*
LIBERTY AT GRANT STS. GR 1-5700
Women Graduates 
Eligible for WAC 
Commission; Duty
Qualified college graduate 
women are eligible for a commis
sion in the Womens Army Corps. 
WAC officers find work in such 
fields as intelligence and security, 
public information, law and leg
islation, troop training, logistics, 
personnel and administration, spe
cial services and many more. 
Prior experience is not necessary.
These opportunities are open to 
all women who have graduated 
from a four year college, are in 
average physical condition, and 
are between 20 and 27. Candi
dates are commissioned as second 
lieutenants. A WAC officer re
ceives the same pay and is pro
moted at the same rate as a male 
officer. Duties are also similar 
with the exception of combat or 
other hazardous duty.
Preparation consists of a 20 
week basic officer course at the 
WAC Center at Fort McClellan, 
Alabama. Upon completion of this 
course, candidates are prepared to 
undertake any job in the Corps 
and may be sent to a more tech
nical school for special assign
ments. WAC officers are presently 
assigned throughout the United 
States, in Europe, and in the Far 
East.
The beginning yearly salary for 
a second lieutenant is $3242.16. 
In addition an officer is provided 
with free living accommodations, 
free medical and dental care, free 
weekends, 30 days paid vacation 
per year, and an initial clothing 
allowance of $200.00.
A woman accepting such a com
mission is a member of the Army 
Reserve, required to serve on ac
tive duty only two years. She may 
be married before or during her 
tour of active duty provided she 
has no dependents under 18 years 
of age. Additional information 
may be obtained through the WAC 
Recruiting Office in the Old Post 
Office Building; EXpress 1-2560, 
i extension 368.
Machinery Hall: 1912
Above is a view of MH in the days when this landmark was an 
infant The famous smokestack has yet to be put on in this photo.
Tech Campus Once A Maze 
Of Steep Hills, Deep Ravines
By Toni Nelson
Despite its unfortunate campus, Tech kept resolutely at her prob
lem of building. While most college presidents on assuming office, are 
called on to make a speech for the faculty, our first president Hammerschlag, got himself a desk and a secretary, and sat down to study 
the topography of the lands and to wonder why Mother Nature had
not been a little kinder to him. ?
Millions of cubic yards of earth 
were moved between 1904 and 
1916 in order to flatten out the 
original hill and ravine into 
something more like a college 
campus. Much grading was requir
ed before the first building could 
go up. A hill 43 feet high was cut 
down to provide a location for 
the College of Fine Arts.
To get direct access to Forbes 
Street at Morewood Avenue, the 
"cut, another hill with an ele
vation of 56 feet was demolished 
and dumped into the ravine. The 
present Tech Bowl represents a 
fill of 23 feet. A marvelous edu
cational building would have cost 
less than the price the college 
had to pay to listen to the long 
song of the steam shovel.
The gulch which runs through 
the campus has long been a prob
lem. The records show that at one 
time, in 1904, there was a plan to 
fill it. Carnegie Steel Company
quoted a price of $262,000 for a 
million and a half cubic yards of 
waste material. This project did 
not materialize. Gradually, how
ever, the ravine was filled with 
influxes of earth from both sides. 
The football field and the tennis 
courts are all that remain of the 
gulch today. And these do not 
represent the original depth, as 
they have been partially filled.
At the bottom of the ravine, far 
underground a little creek still 
flows. It is now confined within a 
huge main pipe for sewage dis
posal.
The grading process, readying 
the campus for its buildings, was 
a long and expensive undertak
ing. The makers of Carnegie Tech 
often felt envious of the state 
universities in the Middle West 
with their almost boundless acres 
of flat lands, ready-made by na
ture for campus purposes.
APRIL
5 M T W T
- - 1 2 3 4 56 7 S 9 10 IX 1213 14 IS 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30.............
rtffice h33 V  far </ -
this pumps, eng'
u'%g1nd3niZ*ent- ' *r Pt0 designIf 0 sell things&h%^eas^echa WE ^eec heaWEaT
TO A CHAT WITH YOU f

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 11, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPagre I
Tartan Debators 
Host To Fourteen 
In Annual Tourney
The eighth annual Tartan De
bate Tournament was held on Sat
urday, March 8, at Carnegie Tech. 
The Tartans were host to four
teen guest teams from colleges 
!6oughout Pennsylvania, West 
Virginia, New York, and Michi
gan.
The following colleges partici
pated in the tournament: Mount 
Mercy College, Duquesne Univerity, The University of Pittsburgh. 
St. Vincents College, Washington 
and Jefferson College, Morris 
Harvey College, Fairmont State 
Teachers College, Heidelburg Col
lege, Albion College, Wayne State 
Detroit, and the Womens Team
of Pennsylvania State University.
Dukes Triumph
The first place winner of the 
four-round tournament was Du
quesne University. The Penn State 
Womens Team placed second, 
while the University of Pitts
burghs two teams tied for third 
place.
The Debate Club Banquet was 
held on the same evening, when 
the awards were presented by 
Larry Turner, president of the 
Tech Debate Club. The Tartan 
tearri has started a new custom, 
whereby they present the Tartan 
trophy to the winning team who is 
to hold it for one year, then pass 
it on to the new winner the fol
lowing year.
Mr. Edward Trainer, an instruc
tor in the English department here 
at Tech, is in charge of ttye Tar
tan Debate Club.
On CamposwithMajcShuIman
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek*)
FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE
The first thought that comes into our minds upon entering 
college is, of course, marriage. But how many of us go about 
seeking mates, as I like to call them, in a truly scientific manner? 
Not many, you may be sure.
So let us today make a scientific survey of the two principal 
causes of marriagepersonality need and propinquity.
Personality need means that we choose mates because they 
possess certain qualities that complete and fulfill our own per
sonalities. Take, for example, the case of Alanson Duck.
As a freshman Alanson made a fine scholastic record, played 
varsity scrabble, and was president of his class. One would 
think that Alanson was a totally fulfilled man. But he was not.
_ There was something lacking in his life, something vague and 
indefinable that was needed to make his personality complete.
Then one day Alanson discovered what it was. As he was 
walking out of his class in Flemish pottery, a fetching coed 
named Grace Ek offered him a handsome red and white pack 
and said, Marlboro?
Yes! he cried, for all at once he knew what he had been 
needing to round out his personalitythe hearty fulfillment of 
Marlboro Cigarettes, the soul-repairing mildness of their fine 
tobacco, the easy draw of their unparalleled filter, the ease and 
con\' nience of their crushproof flip-top box. Yes, I will take a 
Marlboro! cried Alanson. And I will also take you to wife 
if you will have mef
La! she exclaimed, throwing her apron over her face. But 
after a while she removed it and they were married. Today 
they live happily in Baffin Land where Alanson is with an 
otter-glazing firm and Grace is a bookie.
Propinquity, the second principal cause of marriage, simply 
means closeness. Put a boy and a girl close together for a sus
tained period of time and their proximity will certainly ripen 
into love and their love, into marriage. A perfect example is 
the case of Fafnir Sigafoos.
While a freshman at Louisiana State University, Fafnir was 
required to crawl through the Big Inch pipeline as part of his 
fraternity initiation. He entered the pipe at Baton Rouge and, 
alone and joyless, he proceeded to crawl north.
As he passed Lafayette, Indiana, he was agreeably surprised 
to be joined by a comely girl named Mary Alice Isinglass, a 
Purdue freshman, who, oddly enough, had to crawl through 
the Big Inch as part of her sorority initiation.
Chatting amiably as they crawled through Ohio, Pennsyl
vania, and New York State, Fafnir and Mary Alice discovered 
they had much in commonlike a mutual affection for licorice, 
bobsledding, aqd the nonsense verse of Arnold Toynbee. When 
they reached the Vermont border they were going steady, and 
when they emerged from the pipe at Boothbay Harbor, Maine, 
they were engaged.
After a good feot bath they were married and today they lire 
in Klamath Falls, Oregon, where Fafnir is in the weights and 
measures department and Mary Alice is in the roofing game. 
They have three children, all named Norman.  IGic
I k k l
Propinquity it sure to mean loot when you put yourself 
close to m pack of Mmrlboros, mmde for your pleasure by the 
sponsors of this column
Rock-Climbing 
ClassPH100
This evening, March 11, at 8:00 
p.m. the annual Explorers Club of 
Pittsburgh rock-cliftibing school 
will convene in Porter Hall 100.
The meeting will consist of an 
introduction to the subject of 
mountaineering and a detailed 
description of the climbing school 
program. Color slides and movies 
will be shown to illustrate tech
niques to be considered and to 
acquaint viewers with local climb
ing areas.
Weekend Climbing:
The schools activity will con
tinue with actual climbing trips 
to excellent practice areas on 
weekends following. Safety will 
keynote these field trips, as indeed 
one of the primary objectives of 
the Explorers Club in its school is 
to develop passive interests in 
climbing into a love for the sport 
and to teach enthusiasts safe 
climbing techniques.
The course will begin with basic
Sing Broadcast
Tonig:ht at 7:30 WRCT will 
rebroadcast trie complete 
Greek Sing: program of March 
8 at Carnegie Music Hall.
rock-climbing where knots, ropecare, and basic climbing will be 
discussed and developed through 
team climbing and tension climb
ing. Also scheduled are lectures 
for interested persons in first aid, 
camping and woodmanship, mapmaking and interpreting, snow 
climbing and avalanches, and ex
pedition planning.
The Explorers Club of Pitts
burgh, sponsors of the school, was 
founded 11 years ago to advance 
the exploratory sciences. Each 
summer the Club sends an expedi
tion into the field and every other 
year it goes outside the country. 
Past trips have been taken to 
South America, Mexico, Yucatan, 
Canada, and the western United 
States.
Typical objectives are mountain 
climbing, cave exploration, river 
running, mapping and visiting in
teresting people. Last summers 
expedition completed a successful 
run through the Colorado Rivers 
rapids in the Grand Canyon. This 
summer Explorers Club members 
plan to do geological and geo
graphical research at Angel Falls 
in Venezuela and to attempt 
climbs in the Cordillera Blanca 
range of the Andes of Peru.
All persons interested in rockclimbing, mountaineering, and 
cave exploration involving climb
ing arc invited to attend. Instruc
tion is offered free of charge by 
several Explorers Club members.
Sheldon Pollack Will Speak
Sheldon Pollack of the national 
staff of Americans for Democratic 
Action will speak on Congres
sional Count-Down: What We
Can Expect from the 85th Con
gress at an informal meeting 
this afternoon, March 11 at 4 p.m. 
in the Tech Faculty Club (2nd 
floor). Faculty members and stu
dents interested in the national 
legislative and political picture 
are invited to attend.
Mr. Pollack is with the Wash
ington headquarters of ADA, a 
nationwide organization of inde
pendents interested in liberal pro
grams of government.
Associate Professor John A. 
Hart of the Carnegie Tech En
glish department is chairman erf 
the Pittsburgh Chapter of ADA.
Queens
[Continued from page I]
The Queen will be given the 
title of Honorary Commander at 
the Ball on March 29. Her two 
assistants will each earn the title 
of Honorary Battalion Comman
der at that time.
MEASURE \
the scientific environment at UCRL
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
/ / n \ %/ / /  \/ / / I \/ / I l \/ / j I \? /ii \/ / / i \ \ / j  \
/ I 1 PHYSICISTS
MATHEMATICIANSIIIIII
I I
i ' I I I
CHEMISTSIIIII
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS I I I I I I I 
THE CHALLENGE Current projects at 
UCRL are at the very frontier of nuclear 
research. Assignments are fresh and stim
ulating at all levels. Here one calls upon 
his creative imagination  as well as his 
ability to help solve fundamental prob
lems in nuclear science.
ASSOCIATES Men noted for outstand
ing accomplishments in your field are on the 
UCRL staff. Many of them have contrib
uted pioneer achievements in the nuclear 
field. You share their pioneering knowledge 
and have their encouragementat UCRL.
FACILITIES Generally considered un
matched in the field, UCRL facilities give 
project workers access to all the latest in
struments of research  from high-speed
digital computers, water boiler reactors 
particle accelerators, to facilities in nu
clear magnetic resonance-electron spin 
resonance.
ATMOSPHERE UCRL is directed by sci
entists and engineers. Here you'll find the 
right climate for work and advancement, 
encouragement for initiative. And youH 
enjoy the opportunity to work in the San 
Francisco Bay Area.
A UCRL staff member will visit your 
March 31, 1953 
to give you complete details on future 
opportunities at l/CRL Contact 
(Bureau of Placements) 
now for appointment.
mi
f
CALIFORLND TB
CALIFORNIA RADIATION 
LABORATORY 
liyrmof, Co/rforai*

---------------------------------------------------

Pa*e 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 11, 1958
Fraternities And The Future
(Editors Note: The Tartan is indebted to Mr. Teich for this first 
rate pronouncement on the position of fraternities. The writing of this 
article.icas quite independent of the Tartans editorial series on frater
nities. Tartan thanks to Nat Teich for his clear exposition.)
By Nat Teich
'What will the future hold in store for fraternities? This wis 
the question raised by William Wallace, chaiman of the Committee 
on Administration of the National office of Delta Upsilon Fraternity. 
He was addressing a group of delegates from D.U. chapters at twelve 
Ohio and Michigan colleges and universities meeting at the Carnegie 
chapter on February 14 to discuss common fraternity problems.
Throughout the East, especially in New England, the fraternity 
system has been on the carpet for not contributing toward college 
in a positive manner and detracting from education. The marked 
growth of college enrollment predicted in the next ten years coupled 
with prevailing educational philosophies presents a serious problem to 
present-day fraternities. Will they cease to exist ten yars hence, or 
will they be significantly modified, relgated to administration con
trol?
If fraternities are to remain and continue to develop as 
actively contributing forces on the campus, they must justify 
their existence. A re-evaluation of attitudes, atmosphere, and em
phasis must be made.
After Mr. Wallaces remarks, Merle Steir, lead a discussion among 
the delegates on this intensely challenging topic. In order to- give 
continuity and readability to this discussion. I have taken editorial 
liberty to cut, shuffle, and interject my own phraseoloy into the 
material.
We must first acknowledge the problem and examine its ramifica
tions. What exactly is a fraternity? What does the individual want 
and expect from such a group? Hand in hand with this, what is the in
dividual willing to contribute to the group. Are all of us satisfied with 
the present-day situation, what it is doing, where it is going? If the 
answer is not emphatically affirmative, what do we want to see ac
complished. What can we and should we do to give a sense of direction 
and constructive goals to our fraternity?
Only with these ideas clearly in mind can we successfully at
tempt to arrive at possible answers. In order to gain information 
and form opinions, we must talk and exchange ideas, find out 
what others are thinking both in formal discussions and in bull 
sessions.
Probably more than any single other group of individuals on a 
campus, the. fraternity has greatest potentialities for contributing 
to the development and betterment of individuals. The various possi[continued on page 5]
Some Misu nderstandings
The Tartan was pleased to receive a reply to its past editorials in 
the form of a letter from CFP. This letter appears in the adjoining 
column. It gives this author the impression, however, that there is 
some misunderstanding, as well as genuine disagreement.
On Monday, March 3 there appeared an article in the PostGazette, entitled Tech Tartan Editor Fries Fraternities, which might 
be a cause for misunderstanding; this article was a gross misrepresen
tation of the opinions and policy of Tartan executive editor, Ed Rogers 
(the present author). Statements were so chosen as to convey those 
views which the P-G author desired.
The value of fraternities is recognized and I do not seek fraternity 
abolishment as the P-G would have one believe. Instead I seek only 
to bring about an awareness of the pfoblem in hopes that it may find 
correction.
The Problem
This problem is the one of the fraternitys place on this campus 
and the scholastic situation of the fraternities. This latter aspect is 
denied by CFP regards the all-mene average as meaningless as a 
criterion for judging the scholastic position of the fraternities, on the 
grounds that CIT is composed of too many colleges. This is unfounded
unless it can be shown that there#-----------------------------------------------------
exacts a significant variation, in 1 ma]e grade averages of the varipercent population of each col
lege between the fraternities and 
the male student body as a whole, 
and a significant variation in the
ous colleges.
Th*e Tartan doubts CFPs ability 
to demonstrate this. Indeed it 
[continued on page 8]
Managing Editor ................................................................................................................. Ann Forest
Execativc Editor ..........................................................................................................Edwin Rogers
BusinfM Manager ................................................................................................. Harley Bernbach
New* Editor ...................................................................................................................... Carol Soobj
Sports Editor ................................................................................................................... George Paris
< upy Editor ....................................................................................................................... David Dull
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office phone, 
ML) 2-4537: Managing Editor. MU 2-8890; Executive Editor. MU 2-9846; Advertis
ing Manager: MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holiday* 
end examination periods by the students o 1 Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Pittsburgh 13. Pa
Assistant News EditorLex Baker, Feature EditorLyn Carman Photography 
IdierA1 yfcickler. Assistant Business ManagerMichael Bass, Advertising Man
ageree Adt) -berg, SecretaryJoan Seidel. Circulation ManagerJack Walker.
News StaffVal Armitage. Gerald Ryder, Di?k Hartman, Ron Abrams, Arthur 
M;;ilno. Lou Pondy! Nancie Redpath, Beth Liden, Judy Anderson, Peggy Ford, 
M. ly Anne Gaerlner. Cissie Rafferty. Bev Salvatore, Nancy Tull, Marlene GarChuck Meyers. Natalie Laird, Carl Arendt, Linda Herrington, Mike Clayton, 
Dclri Dunaway Ginnia Murphy. ' - ______________
Sports StaffGeorge Paris. Tom Beig, Stan Zlonts, Hilliard Wood, Jim Mullirv 
Gc-oiKe Gross. Ed Blum, Mike Berman.Copy StaffDick Wiley, Jerry Sullivan, Pete Pence Dick Hamilton.
Art Staff__Janice Madden. Don Beaman. Barb Kjos, Roy Brodsky.
Photography SUITGeorge English. Mary Kneeland.Secretarial StaffCarol Rea, Jane Gross, Nancy Dereich, Rena Siegel.
Entered^*second class matter oo October 4, 1907. at the Post Office at Pittsb,ir*h. Pa . under act of March 3, 1879 Accepted for mailing at special rates oi
M>*'age provided tor in the act of February 28. 1925.Reprenented tor national ad\erti*ing by National Advertising, Inc.
Education Or Recreation?
Thursday, March 6
Editor, the Tartan:
Mr. Haynes has informed me that no one in the past ten 
years has failed gym for cutting once and that it is not the 
policy of the department to fail a student for one cut. My 
former statement regarding this was only my and several 
other students false impression; I wish to withdarw it.
It seems that my letter of last week has caused no small 
amount of furor. I was very interested to see the gym depart
ments reaction to it. Today was4--------------------------------------------------:
the first day I have had . gym 
class since the last issue of the 
TartanI did. It seems that be
cause of the presence of one stu
dent who is rather strongly in the 
disfavor of the gym department 
(me), the instructor made the 
whole class do calisthenics for the 
whole period except for the time 
spent calling roll, two laps around 
the gym, and five or six minutes 
of instruction on basketball at the 
end of the period. This, I have 
been told, was not the case in the 
other gym classes today.
Somehow, this strongly calls to 
my mind the story of an old plan
tation owner beating all of his 
slaves when one displeases him. 
Maybe to some minds this is right 
and democratic. I somehow cant 
bring my mind to think that way. 
If this policy is continued I will 
cease to attend my gym classes 
this year in consideration for my 
classmatesnot because of a lack 
of intestinal fortitude.
We, as students of Carnegie 
Tech, are supposed to be being pre
pared for our future lives. We 
hear a great deal about the Car
negie Plan that is intended to do 
this. The aim of the gym depart[continued on page Si
CFP Answers Editorials
Editor, the Tartan:
In the past two issues of the Tartan there have appeared 
two editorials which attempt to condemn the fraternity sys
tem at Carnegie Tech. No written comment was elicited from 
fraternity circles by the first editorial, probably because it 
was recognized as a journalistic attempt to stir controversy
for the sake of controversy. How-f^--------------------*1--------- --------------
ever, since Mr. Rogers has decid
ed to press his point further CFP 
feels that all the facts-should be 
presented.
The editorials rose out of the 
fact that the average fraternity 
factor was lower than the all 
mens average, and the conclu
sion was that fraternities must be 
harmful to scholarship. However, 
the story that statistics tell at first 
glance seldom gives the true pic
ture. This year a list of all fresh
man E & S students in fraterni
ties, 161 in all, was submitted by 
the dean of students to the Bureau 
of Measurement and Guidance.
The Freslimen 
Dr. Robert Krug, who is in 
charge of correlating freshman
tests and College Board Exam re
sults to evaluate the academic 
performance of students at Car
negie, reported the following con
clusions: There is no basis for 
stating -that these freshmen per
formed any differently than would 
be predicted from their tests. 
What is more, they performed just 
as well as the E & S freshman 
class as a whole. This is a better 
criterion on which to judge the 
scholastic calibre of fraternity 
men than by comparison to the 
all mens average, which is really 
a meaningless term In a univers
ity made up of many colleges.
In his editorial of last week, Mr. 
Rogers takes it upon himself to 
[continued on page 7]
All-Women Factors
Editor, the Tartan:
All-women grades were published this past week and are a 
sad indication of the condition 
the scholastic position of the fe- > 
male population of Carnegie Tech. 
For many years all-women have 
averaged below the all-sorority 
average. This past semester all
women were .203 below the all 
sorority average.
It may be seriously asked 
whether all-women are serving 
any constructive purpose in the 
educational system of Carnegie 
Tech. Would Tech be better oijji 
with no women at all? This is a 
very real question. Many, many 
campuses are quite satisfied with 
their non-coed life and are quite 
opposed to the possibilities of 
women on their campuses.
Female Functions 
Let us investigate what pur
poses women serve on our campus.
1) They are excellent users of 
housing, which is short in this 
area. 2) They are excellent outn} 
lets for the exuberance of youth, 
which erupts most often on week 
ends. 3) They are builders of so
cial graces, one would like to 
think. 4) They are providers of 
congenial surroundings for the 
student in which he can find 
friendship and security away from 
home.
These things all-women Can do. 
And these they do well. Nonethe
less, we may ask how much thi $ 
contributes to the educational de
velopment of the women. In 
theory, it is true that Morewood 
Garden? is supposed to encourage 
good scholarship and perhaps even 
stimulate intellectual activity 
Continued Existence 
Instead it appears that all
women are degenerating scholas| tically, and are not upholding 
their standards. This is not 
; idle issue and it should be give 
very serious thought, especially 
women if they are interested in 
' their continued existence at Car
negie Tech. The success of non| coed systems elsewhere and the 
difficulties present here make the 
value of all-women questionable.
To regain the falling scholastic 
prestige women should consider 
rather drastic measures.
Bob Wessely^
I Physics '60 t?"
an
/eV
Happy news! 
The ARROW 
University Glen
This brand-new shirt style com
bines your favorite features: but
ton at rear of collar, box pleat 
in back and Mitoga-tapered fit. 
(See illustration.) In stripes, 
checks, solids, $5.00 and up. 
Cluettj Peabody & Co.} Inc.
ARROW^
first infashion
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Producls Ivy League FashionsLEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood StreetOakland

---------------------------------------------------

AR REA DY
CL AIM ofl
Gnohf 
302 Mi
SA-A-AV. WINSTON 
TASTO GOOD! J
AW RIGHT, DAD, 
I'LL TAKE OVER 
m HERE/ rw?.
EVERYTHING WE HAVE WF
OWE TO WINSTON/ rUKE A CIGARETTE 
I SHOULD/ Ml
NOW WAIT A MINUTE 
MR. Me PH00, LET'S . 
^ TALK THIS OVER. ) 
HERE,HAVE A /
> WINSTON/L
DE CIGARETTE WID * 
DE FRESH DEEUGHTFUL 
FLAVOR / rTHE NEW CRUSH-PROOF 6QX f$ A REAL D/SCOVERY. 700/
 J. NEVNOlOS TCMCCO CO.* 
WINSTON SAltM N. C.
Tuesday, March 11, 195SCARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
Observationstuture
[continued from page 4] 
ble experiences and situations able 
to be encountered are too numer
ous to mention here. However, 
people living and working to
gether, many holding some com
mon ideas and ideals, interacting 
among each other informally with 
the ability to unify and work toigffd a common goal is indicative 
of this potential.
For ultimate survival, fra
ternities need to make use of 
this potential more effectively. 
They cannot afford to become 
eating, sleeping, and drink
ing clubs, leaders in conform
ity, discouraging scholarship. 
Fraternities must make aconscious effort toward scho
lastic advancement and intel'ectual stimulation. They can
Leo Alman & 
The Combo
HA. 1-2083
help actives and pledges alike 
to set personal goals by con
tributing to the individuals 
growth and development, by 
supplementing and encourag
ing the benefits of college. An 
opportune field to develop po
tential is found when men can 
be interested to participate in 
worthwhile fraternity, school, 
or extra-curricular activities. 
Active fraternity members have 
a tremendous responsibility and 
obligation to the fraternity, the 
college, and especially the
When a man enters a frat<_____
a pledge, he either consciously or 
unconsciously looks up to and 
emulates upperclassmen. There
fore, the actives, whether they 
know it or not, are directly influ
encing these younger men. The 
pledges form attitudes and opin
ions approximating what they see 
and hear. In order to shape these 
attitudes and outlooks more con
structively, actives must believe in 
and work toward this end among 
themselves.
It is up to the active fraternity 
men, those with prestige and in
fluence, to institute and implement 
this necessary introspection. Four 
steps suggested are: (1) cut down'
on or eliminate time-consuming 
non-essential activities; (2) in
crease awareness for other profit
able endeavors; (3) set an ex
ample by pushing scholarship, at
tending concerts, plays, lectures; 
(4) get the administration and 
faculty on your side, inviting them 
to meals and discussions at your 
house.
Nonetheless, in the long run the 
stimulus and sustained effect must 
come from personal motivation of 
all.
Commencement
tContim^d from page J]
on campus to take part in the 
main ceremony. Following his ad
dress the seniors will go with their 
departments to receive their de
grees individually. The following 
locations have been proposed as 
places for these individual presen
tations: Porter Hall 100, The Lit
tle Theater, Morewood Rec. Room, 
and Mary Breed Memorial Hall 
 and on the Mall itself.
THE CARTER OIL COMPANY
RESEARCH LABORATORY 
Tulsa, Oklahoma
Affiliate of Standard Oil Company (New Jersey) .
Coll egmanoas bmtfagmr ig dYnOU SAVSETIM
WE HAVE POSITIONS FOR:
PHYSICISTS, CHEMISTS, MATHEMATICIANS, 
and CHEMICAL and MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
Billions For Defense, 
But Why Fight At All
I quote a paragraph from an article Is Man 
Obsolete? by I. F. Stone, Washington newsletter 
author.
With all the billions being sepnt on arms in a 
world still largely shoeless and illiterate, no one
* proposes to spend a few millions on a world study 
of why men fight. We know dangerously little of 
the explosive aggressions in man. Yet the only 
security today for any and all of us is to find a 
defense against this ultimate weapon within our
selves, the tendency to murder. The military are 
alarmed lest they finally be eliminated by the 
sheer impossibility of nuclear war. Their best 
minds hope, as U.S. Army Chief of Staff Maxwell
D. Taylor disclosed in a speech here (fall of 1957 
in WashingtonR.B.), that we can find a way to limit 
war, so that the Great Game can go on. His hopes 
are pinned on an anti-missile missile, which can 
shoot down the ICBM in mid-course, and thus pro
vide an umbrella of safety under which war may 
be resumed on the more humane scale of the 
past. The danger has brought an intensified effort, 
not to save men, but to save war.
There has not been a moment in the entire 
recorded history of man when he hasn't been oc
cupied in killing other men. Why? It seems that 
the problem today is the problem of all, the prob
lem of man. Only now we are working with bigger 
clubs than the savage of neolithic times. The ob
jective seems always to hope for another technol
ogical break-through to a new means en masse 
which will be so terrifying and overwhelming that 
We can dictate terms to Them. Peaceful-coexistence 
has become a cuss word.
Problem: Mankind
There was a young boy who got up early one 
Sunday morning and ran into the living room to 
find his father reading the morning paper. The boy 
begged, Dad, come on out and play baseball with 
me; you promised. The father, relishing his one 
morning of peace and rest, balked. Son, I know I 
promised to play ball with you and I will. But right 
now Im reading the paper. Here is a jig-saw puz
zle of the world, (hands the puzzle to the son) Go 
and put it together. When you have finished, we 
will go outside. The son took the box and went 
into the next room. Dad settled down to what he 
thought would be a few hours of silence. Within 
[continued on page 6]
Make an Appointment Through Your Placement Office

---------------------------------------------------

rage 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 11, 195*
SUSPENSION STORYChuck Steger, M.E. 52, probing 
dynamic properties of new Air Spring developed by Von 
Polhemus (1.). A nationally recognized authority on 
suspension systems, Mr. Polhemus directs Structure and 
Suspension Development Group of GMs Engineering 
Staff, helps guide Chuck in his professional career.
jasai
Goes West 
Rifle Team 
To Columbus
Polansky To Defend 
Natl Championship
On Saturday, March 15, Techs 
rifle team will travel to Columbus, 
Ohio to compete in the National 
Intercollegiate Team and Indivi
dual Matches. At this competition, 
Vic Polansky, Techs All American 
will be defending his National In
dividual Championship which he 
won last year.
Polansky, a junior physicist, has 
been averaging 289.2 points out of 
300 possible this year, about 4 
points better than he was last 
year. His chances of winning are 
excellent, and the Tartan wishes 
him good luck.
Last year Techs teams finish
ed fifth and ninth out of approxi
mately twenty teams which enter
ed from Michigan, Ohio, Ken
tucky, Pennsylvania^ and Tennes
see. Biggest competition is expect
ed this year from University of 
Michigan, Tennessee, eKntucky, 
Akron, and Youngstown College.
The team has been averaging 
1404 out of 1500 possible points 
per match this year. They fire 
prone, kneeling and standing. Ten 
members fire with the best five 
scores counting toward the scor
ing.
Major Trefz and Sgt. Vaughn 
coach the team, and members 
need not belong to ROTC to be 
eligible for the team. Tryouts for 
next years team start in Sept
ember right after school begins. 
Anyone interested in trying out 
should see either of the coaches, 
or check in at Military supply or 
the military office in the near 
future.
Wrestling Matches 
Held This Week
The wrestling finals will be held 
today, March 11, and also Thurs
day, March 13, at 4:30. Everybody 
is invited to attend. This years 
matches will without a doubt be 
the best in years  they are bless
ed with the best coach weve had 
and the largest turn-out ever. 
Coach Ron Armstrong, formerly 
of a John Hopkins conferencechampicnship squad, has been 
training the contestants in ten 2- 
hour practice sessions, and pro
mises exciting matches in all 
weight classes. All contestants 
must weigh-in before noon with 
Mr. Birdy on the day of the 
match.
The Indian Students of Whit
field Hall defeated perenniallypowerful Beta Sigma Rho in the
IM Corner
Table TennisIn the doubles 
tournament the team of Guptu 
and Sethi have reached the finals. 
They will play the winner of a 
match between Streedharon and 
Kuhn and Casset. In the singles, 
Kuhn will meet the winner of 
Wuhman vs. Streedharon in the 
finals.
Foul Shooting:Will take place 
Tuesday and Thursday, March 11 
and 13. All teams check tittlletin 
board for time and basket. Shoot
ing begins at 4:30.
RifleAil matches must be shot 
March 10-14, at 4:30 sharp. The 
following teams will shoot: Mon
dayKS, TDP, and Obelisk A; 
TuesdayDU, SAE, and SN; Wed
nesdayPK, DTD, and BTP; 
ThursdayTX and Falcons.
SoccerEntries are due this 
Thursday, March 13, at 4:30. 
Twelve men on a team. Play be
gins March 17.
Straight Call PoolSAE is still 
out in front with a 5-1 record. 
Obelisks are second, sporting a 
4-1 record.
ChessIn the Rook League, SN 
leads, at 3-0. The Knights, 2-0, 
are runners-up. In the Bishop 
League, TDP-A and TX are tied 
for first place, with 2-0 records.
Handball  Play begins this
Twelve Teams In 
B-liall Playoffs
The IM basketball playoffs be
gin next week with six fraternity 
and six independent teams repre
sented. Among the fraternity 
teams; ATO and Kappa Sigma are 
favored. Other teams making this 
playoff are Delta Tau Delta, Beta 
Theta Pi, ATO B, and SAE.
The teams vying for the inde
pendent title include favored 
Rockets, Ciicom, ASCE, Eng
lishmen, TKN and the Grads.
The winners of the fraternity 
playoffs will meet the independent 
champs on IM night for the covevery night this week as the teams 
will be hard put to stay in good 
conditioning.
This year, more teams entered 
the basketball playoffs than any 
previous year. A fine season was 
Reid under the excellent super
vision of Mr. Birdy and an even 
more exciting action is to be ex
pected on IM Night.
week. Check the IM bulletin 
board.
Co-Rec BadmittonAn exciting 
match will be played this week 
between the powerful teams of 
Haynes and Konrick vs. Birdy and 
Trommel. The winner will make 
the finals against the winner of 
the bottom bracket, still unde
cided.
team pin^-pong championships.
BSR, a fraternity that takes its 
table-tennis seriously, was out
classed by the skill of the dextrous 
Indian boys. Our Indian guests 
have shown a steady interest in 
the intramural program, and in 
this one they proved themselves 
more than able. It is rumoisd 
that they are also fielding a 
dangerous soccer squad.
-----CAMP COUNSELLORS OPENINGS------
 for Faculty, Students and Graduates  
The Association of Private Camps9. . . comprising 250 outstanding Boys, Girls, Brother-Sister and 
Co-Ed Camps, located throughout New England, Middle Atlantic States and Canada.
. . . INVITES YOUR INQUIRIES concerning summer employment as Counsellors, Instructors or Administrators.
. . . POSITIONS in childrens camps, in all areas of activities, are available.
WRITE. OR CALL IN PERSON:
Association of Private CampsDept. C
55 West 42d Street, Room 743 New York 36, U. Y.
NDDWCHGB NDB RDppHvH hH* G*L CDdH*
Acrobatics, Ski Boots, Soft and Hard Toe Slippers, Des
ert Boots, Tap Shoes, Bedroom Slippers, Ice and Roller 
Skates and Shoes, Tennis Shoes. Dress Shoes, Rubbers 
and Galoshes.
Sa ve up to 40% Open 9 to 9
LITTLE'S Shoe Store
Palman bUiar Nin parrTITK Nin-ar bmM
Observations
[continued from page 5] 
half an hour the boy rushed back 
into the room and told his father 
that the puzzle had been assem
bled. But how did jtou finish it 
so quickly? It is very difficult, 
said the father. Oh yes, Dad, the 
son replied,  it was hard when I 
tried to put together the map of 
the world. But then I looked on 
the other side and there was the 
picture of a man. That was much 
easier, to do. And I found that 
when the man is right, the world 
is right. Amen
Gala IM Night 
Featuring Dance, 
Steelers; Frank
This is a rare opportunity to view 
a most interesting but rarelyThe Steelers will be there; the 
independents and Greeks will be 
there; the facutly and public re
lations department members will 
be there; Frank will be there. 
Everybodys going to I.M. Night, 
Friday, March 21.
Sports and Laughs 
And with good reason! M r. 
Birdy has been working day and 
night to make this the most en
tertaining I.M. night yet. Starting 
at 7:00, Coach Ed Kung will pre
sent the finals of the mens and 
womens fencing tournaments, 
viewed venerated sport. Next, at 
7:30, there will be laughs and 
thrills as youll see your favorite 
Steeler football stars in a hot
basketball contest with the IntraMural Basketball All-Stars. Such 
All-American grid stars as Fran 
Rogel, Eari Morall, and Lenny 
Dawson, are all fine athletes with 
any ball, and many of the I.M. 
standouts could be playing varsity 
ball. The climax of the evening 
will be the I.M. basketball finals 
at 8:30 between the best,fraterr4 
ity and independent teams. This 
years promises to be one of the 
most exciting championships in 
years.
Drinking and Dancing1
In between basketball games all 
the years IM trophies will be 
given out. After the garner there 
will be a dance in Thistle Hall, to 
the music of The Men of Note,** 
a sought-after Pittsburgh Comb<\^ 
The Varsity C Club will set. 
refreshments.
This is an evening you cant aford to miss  and its an rree of 
chargc. Come stag or drag.
Because engineering is a profession at GM 
-we offer you a career-not a job
ONE REASON engineering standards at 
General Motors are so high is that GM 
recognizes engineering as a profession. And 
the men who engineer, the many different 
products made by General Motors are 
respected for the profession they practice.
That is why, when you are invited to join 
General Motors as an engineer, you dont 
simply take a jobyou start a career.
It is a career that is rewarding both profes
sionally and financiallystarting on your first 
day of association with General Motors at any 
one of its 36 divisions and 126 plants in 70 
cities and 19 states.
During your early days at GM, for example, 
you work with a senior engineer who guides 
your career along professional lines.
You are also actively encouraged to pursue 
your education towards an advanced degree. 
For we at General Motors recognise that, in 
doing so, you will become more valuable to 
us and the engineering profession.
You are given the opportunity to obtain pro
fessional recognition through participation 
in engineering society forums, presentation 
of technical papers, winning of patents and 
other recognition of your accomplishments.
And you are also encouraged to take an active 
role in your communitys affairsbecause a 
truly professional man is Y good citizen Yr 
well as a good engineer.
All this is for a reasonand a good one.
Many of the men who will fill the key posi
tions at GM in the future are the young engi
neers joining GM today. This is not theory, 
it is fact. For 14 of our 33 Vice-Presidents are 
engineers, 23 of our 42 Division General Man
agers are engineers, too.
Today we are looking for young engineers 
such as youwho may fill these positions 
tomorrow. The rewards both professional 
and financialare substantial. If you feel you 
have the ability, write us. It could be the most 
important letter of your life.
June graduates!
A Ceneral Motors Representative will 
be on hand to answer questions about 
job opportunities with GM.
March 18-19
CM positions Cro available m theae field*i
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING  ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING  METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING 
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING  CHEMICAL ENGINEERING 
CERAMIC ENGINEERING > MATHEMATICS 
INDUSTRIAL DESICN  PHYSICS  CHEMISTRY
UMOMCAl phahCT uhCmhCAaehO
Personnel Staff, Detroit 2, Michigan

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 11, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
[continued from page 1] 
ratings this year Were ail ex
tremely close.
Friday nights program ended 
with performances by two con
trasting groups. Tau Delta Phi ap
peared in shirt sleeves and ivy 
<Xgue caps, later becoming sailors 
for their second number, Theres 
Nothin Like A Dame.
The mixed chorus of members 
of Sigma Alpha Iota, womens 
musical honorary, and Phi Mu 
Alpha, mens musical honorary, 
gave an excellent performance ac
cording to the audience and the
udges, Mr. Jacob Evanson, Mr. 
Russel Wickmann, and Mr. Roland 
Leich. On their first selection, this 
group amazed the audience when 
they took no pitch. It was learned 
later, however, that they were 
given the pitch backstage by the 
conductor John Wabreck.
Ugly Mug to Peng 
Trophies for .Greek Sing were 
given out at Greek Swing by Bob 
Jack and Darlene Pyle, co-chair
men of the weekend. Before these 
presentations, however, Jack Peng 
was awarded the Ugly Mug and 
the fraternity and sorority schol
arship trophies were presented. 
They went to Theta Xi and Delta 
Delta Delta.
Much credit for the success of 
Greek Swing goes to Judy Wahl
and Ted Vero, who with sorority 
and fraternity representatives, 
decorated the ballroom. The crests 
hanging against a white backing 
behind the bandstand lent a dig
nified atmosphere to the room.
, LIBRARIANS
The City oi Los Angeles
Offers outstanding opportunities to librarians and chil
drens librarians to become a part of the fastest-growing 
large library system in the country.
Salary: $4500 to $5568
Excellent sick leave and retirement benefits 
Paid holidays and vacations 
Many other civil service benefits
Candidates may apply now and receive a definite 
appointment prior to coming to Los Angeles
Contact Your Placement Office For Details or Write to 
Personnel Officer Los Angeles Public Library 630 West Fifth Street 
Los Angeles 17, California
CFP Letter
[continued from page 4] 
define the purposes of fraternities 
and to show how the fraternities 
utterly fail to live up to these 
purposes. We would like first to 
define a bit more precisely the 
role of fraternities in the educa
tional system, and then to show 
that they attain these obejctives 
more fully than Mr. Rogers cares 
to admit. A college, even an en
gineering school, has not done a 
complete job in preparing its stu
dents for adult life if it provides 
means only for intellectual de
velopment also. The great value 
of a fraternity over any other 
area of campus life is that its 
members have much closer asso
ciation among a larger group of 
men.
Fraternal Purposes
The purposes of fraternities 
transcend scholarship, although 
not at the expense of scholarship. 
A rushee is evaluated on the basis 
of all of his qualities, and scholar
ship is just one of these. Fraterni
ties seek to develop well-rounded 
men because they believe that this 
is a vital part of college prepara
tion. By living and working with 
individuals of varied backgrounds
and abilities in a well-organized 
group, men gain new interests 
through fraternity life. The opportunity for self-government 
challenges them to solve problems 
that do not arise in the classroom. 
They learn, above all, to under
stand and deal with men in many 
situations.
One might think that fraternity 
men would not rank very high in 
their class because they seek to 
develop wide interests and abili
ties while in college. However, 
this is not the case. Of the total 
undergraduate male enrollment in 
E & S, about 30% are fraternity 
men. Yet, let us look at the top 
twenty men scholastically in each 
E & S class, based on cumulative 
factors through the past fall sem
ester. In the freshman class, elev
en of ^the top twenty students are 
fraternity men; in the sophomore 
class they hold four of the top 
six and nine of the top twenty 
places; in the junior class, the top 
four and eleven out of the top 
twenty are fraternity men; and 
six of the top nine and nine of*Hhe 
top twenty seniors belong to a 
fraternity. Thus although they re
present only 309c of the total E & 
S enrollment, fraternity men 
make up 50% of the top 80 places 
in their classes. If it is true, as Mr. 
Rogers states, that fraternities 
fail to show the [high factor] 
rushee a way of life sufficiently 
commensurate with his education
al goals, we wonder how so many
^ '.TV
Dont ust stand there
STICKLE! MAKE *25
Sticklers are simple riddles with two-word rhyming 
answers. Both words must have the same number of 
syllables. (No drawings, please!)
Well shell out $25 for all we use 
and for hundreds that never see 
print. So send stacks of em with 
your name, address, college and 
 class to Happy-Joe-Lucky, Box 
6?A, Mount Vernon, New York.
WHAT IS AN UNHAPPY BIRD?
erRpaRIt osTERwisE. Sobbin' Robin
PITT.
men are doing quite well for 
themselves scholastically could 
have been so misguided.
A most important contribution 
to education by fraternities is in 
the social sphere. This is a broad 
term and applies not only to par
ties, but to personal relations 
within the fraternity, the psycho
logy of group behavior, the ability 
of an individual to be at ease in 
any type of social situation, and 
the ability and willingness to ex
press ones thoughts and ideas. 
Tartan editorials to the contrary, 
any fraternity man will tell you 
that the level of informal discus
sions in fraternities is often very 
high, and these discussions have 
a value that cannot be foynd in 
planned discussion groups with 
faculty participation.
Conversational Tone 
It Is very difficult for any per
son to know the tone of every 
conversation that takes place in a 
dining room of two or more tables; 
it is impossible for one man to 
know the tone of eevry conversa
tion that takes place in a fratern
ity house. How, then, can Mr. 
Rogers make any valid generali
zation about the tone of conversa
tions in all the fraternity houses 
on campus. To assert that intellec
tual discussions are non-existent 
in fraternity houses is absurd, and 
to propose that fraternities canj not fulfill a useful purpose in col
lege education unless they pro
vide planned intellectual discus
sion groups is to fail to under
stand the very nature of fraterni
ties.
We hope that Mr. Rogers will 
use more discretion in the future 
in criticizing fraternities. They 
have a definite purpose on this 
campus, and are supported by the 
administration for that reason. 
The fraternities will stand up to 
and reply to valid criticism, but 
journalistic sensationalism only 
results in needless harm to all 
concerned. We trust that the Tar| tan will re-evaluate its position 
of responsibility to the entire 
campus as it plans future editor
ials.
Council of Fraternity Presidents 
(Editors Note: The Tartan fails 
to recognize any irresponsibility 
on its part. E.H.R.)
WHAT IS A MAN WHO DOESNT 
PAY FOR PARKING?
WILLIAM SEir. C.CN.t.
Meter Cheater
WHAT ARE STADIUM SEATS 
FOR PROFESSORS?
Teachers
naig EicHiiNG. Bleachers
NORTHEASTERN OKLAHOMA STATE
NEAT FEAT? No! Slick Trick? A thousand times no! 
When a magician makes a pack of Luckies vanish, its 
a plain case of Tragic Magic! Connoisseurs claim theres 
one approved way to make Luckies disappear. Thats to 
smoke (Yum!) every last one of em! That way, you 
get the wonderful taste of Luckies fine tobacco . . ; 
light, good-tasting tobacco thats toasted to taste even 
better. So, Ladeez-ann-Gennlemen, observe a pack of 
Luckies closely. Then carefully remove one (1) cigarette 
and light up. Presto! Youre puffing on the best-tasting 
cigarette you ever smoked!
WflAT IS AN ODD-SHAPED EYEGLASS?
MARJORIE BENEDICT. Conical Monocle 
 T. HOLYOKE
WHAT IS A JOKING MONKEY?
.4*.0'4 .(>/ - <DAVID 6ERSHAW, Of MINNESOTARibbin* Gibbon
WHAT IS A BANANA FEEL?
 AIL SRE6G. Fruit Suit
(AST TENNESSEE STATE
WHAT IS A GANGSTER'S MANUAL?
JOAN HEALT.
. OF DELAWARECrook Book
LIGHT UPA fj:
j$4. r-SMOKE -LIGHT UP A LUCKY!
Product of Jtrkeeo-arryci ny.  <Jo&uoc& is our middle name
Planned Parenthood
The fifth session of the Y For
um Series on Love, Courtship and 
Marriage will be held Sunday 
night, March 16 at 5:00 p.m. in the 
Blue Dining Room of Morewood 
Gardens. Mrs. Eva Bronner, will 
be speaking out of her wide ex
perience as a marriage counselor 
for the Planned Parenthood Center 
of Pittsburgh as she leads the dis
cussion and answers questions 
about Facing Problems in En
gagement and Marriage. The 
campus is invited.
This is the fifth and final session 
of the Forum series on Love, 
Courtship, and Marriage which 
has been sponsored by the Car
negie Tech YMCA and YWCA. 
The other four sessions were on 
the topics of: Finding the Right 
One, How Can You Tell When 
You Are Ready for Marriage, 
fl You Marry Outside Your 
Faith, and Marriage and Fin
ances.
DRESS
YOUR
PART
for dress 
for play 
for every day!
$9.95 to $19.95
CITY CLUB

---------------------------------------------------

P*gf 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 11, 195*
KEITH LYNN, B.S.E.E., PURDUE, '52, INVITES YOU TO
Tm an Equipment Engineer for Illinois Bell Telephone Company in 
Chicago. Speaking personally, I find Bell Telephone engineering 
darned interesting and very rewarding. But judge for yourself.*
"8:30 a.m. We start at my desk. Im 
studying recommendations for install* 
ing additional dial telephone facilities 
at the central office in suburban Glen* 
view. This is the beginning of an inter* 
esting new engineering assignment.
"10:20 0.111. I discuss a proposed lay* 
out for the additional central office 
equipment with Supervising Engineer 
Sam P. Abate. Ill want to inspect the 
installation area this afternoon, so I 
telephone the garage and order a car.
"11:0Q a.m. At an interdepartmental 
conference I help plan procedures for 
another job that Ive been assigned. 
Working closely with other departments 
of the company broadens your expe
rience and know-how tremendously.**
"3:10 p.m. Then I drive over to the 
office at nearby Skokie where a recent 
engineering assignment of mine is in 
its final stager. Here Im suggesting 
a modification to the Western Elec* 
trie installation foreman on the job.
"3:30 p.m. Before starting back to 
Chicago, I examine a piece of Out 
Sender equipment being removed from 
the Skokie central office. This unit 
might fit in just fine at one of our 
other offices. Ill look into it tomorrow/*
"2:00 p.m. After lunch I drive out to 
the Glenview office. Here, in the frame 
room, Im checking floor space re
quired by the proposed equipment 
Believe me, the way our business is 
growing, every square foot counts.
Well, that was today. Tomorrow will be different. As you can see, I take a 
job from the beginning and follow it through. Often I have a lot of jobs in 
various stages at the same time. I think most engineers would agree, that 
keeps work interesting.
Keith Lynn is one of many young engineers who are finding rewarding 
careers in the Bell Telephone Companies. Find out about opportunities for 
you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. And read 
the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
BELL 
TELEPHONE 
COMPANIES
Editorial
Tcontinued from page 4] 
would be easier to show variations 
of-the former sort to exist among 
individual fraternitiesthus ren
dering the CFP Scholarship Tro
phy meaningless. The Tartan ad
heres to its emphasis upon the 
all-mens average. With regard to 
CFPs facts about the Freshmen, 
all that can be said is: things are 
looking up.
The significance of the all-mens 
average, fraternity average differ
ence, as emphasized in the first 
fraternity editorial, is due to its 
longevityat least four years.
Other Causes 
Considering causes, CFPs point 
about finding fraternity life com
mensurate with ones educational 
goals (based on the top 80 in each 
class) is well taken. However, in 
the search for another contribut
ing cause the most reasonable 
(that fraternity men hold the ma
jority of positions in extracurri
cular activity) is denied by CFP 
itself: One might think that fra
ternity men would not rank very 
high in their class because they 
seek to develop wide interests 
and abilities while in college. 
However, this is not the case. 
Also, it needs re-emphasizing 
that though formal discussions 
are to be encouraged, as stated 
previously, the more important 
thing is the atmosphere with re
gard to intellectual endeavor and 
discussion. Atmosphere is not so 
difficult to sense as CFP might 
think. E.H.R.
Johnson
[Continued from page 1] 
alumni, now found in 48 states 
and ten foreign countries. His 
office will direct an expansion of 
the Clans, Carnegies alumni 
clubs, from thirty to fifty during 
the next few years, and will in
crease publication of the Carnegie 
Alumnus magazine from four to 
six issues each year. The Federa
tion is also engaged in the Alumni 
Phase of Carnegies $24,350,000 
Development Program, for which 
it has currently raised $625,000 
toward a three-year goal of $1,- 
500,000.
Mr. Johnson earned his B.S. 
degree in management engineer
ing from Carnegie Tech in 1949, 
and was a salesman with Crane 
Company for the following five 
years. At Carnegie he has also 
served as Chairman of the YWCA 
Committee of Management, as 
freshman counselor, as faculty 
advisor to Kappa Sigma fratern
ity, and as a member of the InterFraternity Advisory Council.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS
 Try Us First 
DG!pG*L hGBLCGBH
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Walt Harper
Orchestra
MAyflower 1-5279 
713 Clarissa Street
Columbia-Southern 
Chemical Corporation
interview Dale: 
MARCH 19
Opportaaities available fi itrti 
plants: New Martinsville, W. Vs.,
Barberton, O., Lake Charles, U., 
Corpus Christi, Tex., Jersey City, 
N. S.. Bartlett, Calif., aad Bra u baris, Qaebec, Canada,
Prodacers *1 heavy industrial chem
icals: soda ash, chlorine, eaastie soda, 
anhydroas ammonia, titaaiam tetra
chloride, and other chlorinated prod
ucts. 
Research, development, prodactioa, 
design and maintenance opportanitie open for men in these categories: 
BS, MS, PhD Chemists: BS A MS 
Chem. Enfrs.; BS CE; BS MBs; 
BS EEs: B.S I. das. Enjrs.: BS In- ad PhD Physicists.
Buhl Planetarium 
Has Space Show
One of the most popular places 
in the area since the advent of 
earth-circling satellites is Buhl 
Planetarium and Institute of 
Popular Science.
In the Planetariums newest 
show, (opened March 10) First 
Man in Space, the Jules Vernian 
flights of fancy become flights of 
the future to other .worlds.
Rockets blast off, a space station 
surrounds the audience which 
takes a simulated satellite ride 
and looks down on the passing 
earth. Tiiere is a TV close-up of 
the moon. And amid these spec
tacular effects, the progress and 
problems of space travel are seen, 
and the most reecnt developments 
explained.
Gym
[continued from page 4] 
ment, in my opinion, should be to 
stimulate an interest in physical 
development and care that will be 
carried by the student many years 
after he leaves herenot to make 
him hate it as many, many stu
dents now do.
I wish that the gym department 
would realize that we are not 
merely globs of muscle fiber, cap
able of . propelling ourselves 
around the gym and bending our
selves into various shapes repeat
edly. The Bureau of Measure
ment and Guidance checks pretty 
well to ascertain that we have 
more in our craniums than mere 
vacuums before we are admitted 
to Tech. I think that the present 
gym program is an insult to what 
little intelligence we are supposed 
to possess.
I do not believe that it is with
in the power of any gym depart
ment to make muscular marvels 
out of any of us no matter what 
they do in two classes of less than 
an hour each per week. And this 
even includes solid calisthenics. 
Even if they were to succeed in 
making us into perfect physical 
specimens, what would it benefit 
us twenty years from now or even 
a year or two after we quit taking 
gym?
Many men thirty or forty years 
of age in the business world rely 
heavily on equipment in YMCA 
and athletic club gyms to keep 
themselves in shape. Of what 
value can this equipment be to 
someone who has never been in
structed in its use?
To Combat Overweight
If we had the equipment and 
instruction, some of the students 
would become interested and even 
if they werent interested at the
time, at least when they began to 
develop that middle age spread 
they would know how to combat 
it inside a gym. This point should 
be considered seriously in view of 
the current medical pronounce
ments on the danger of being 
overweight.
I have little doubt that, as me
ters are now, most students w*m 
two years of' CIT gym behind 
them would be completely snowed 
at the sight of a well equipped 
gym and would probably ust walk 
gym and would probrbly just walk 
themselves to use its contents.
RUFUS DARBY
Don't Forget To
WRITE
