ECH'S HEXED WEEKEND DRAWS NEAR
Homecom ingProm ises 
A Fun-Filled Weekend
w''The first CIT graduating class 
to celebrate its golden anniver
sary will return to campus for 
the 1958 Homecoming this 
weekend. Of the 126 men who 
registered for class in October, 
1905, 62 are still living and the 
Tech Alumni Office expects over 
half of these to be present.
Homecoming will officially bewith the Carnegie Day Pro
gram in the gym this Friday, Oc
tober 31. Selections by the Kiltie 
Band and the Cameron Choir, 
and the presentation of student 
honorary awards will lead to one
of the highlights of the exercises 
which is the crowning of the 
Homecoming Queen by Carnegie 
President, Dr. J. C. Warner.
Queen
The Homecoming Queen, who 
will be Suzy Bradford, Janet Con
rad, or Lana Kubasek, will then 
officially open the Homecoming 
festivities.
Following the Carnegie Day 
Day program, the sororities will 
present Varsity Varieties, skits 
based around the Homecoming 
theme, American and European 
curses.
Friday afternoon, an alumni re
ception and tea will be held in 
the Carnegie Union after which 
the alumni will go to the class re
union dinners which will be held 
throughout the Oakland area.
Friday Night 
Friday evening at the pep rally, 
being held in the bowl, the fra
ternity pledge classes will have 
cheer competition. Saturday morn
ing there will be an alumni break
fast and council meeting in More
wood Gardens and at 10:30 a.m., 
an informal meeting will be held 
giving all alumni an opportunity 
to discuss Carnegie Tech objec
tives with their deans and de
partment heads.
Luncheon 
The Homecoming luncheon, for 
the alumni, which will begin at 
12:00 noon, will feature alumni 
awards. Seven merit awards for 
professional accomplishments and
ten service awards for outstanding 
service to Tech will be given.
Saturday afternoon Tech meets 
Geneva in the annual Homecom
ing football game beginning at 
2:00 p.m. in Pitt Stadium. Be
tween the halves of the game, a 
pageant presenting the Home
coming Queen will take place.
Alumni Reception
After the game the alumni will 
complete their weekend with a 
Fifth Quarter reception, and a 
gala all-alumni dinner dance at 
the Hotel Webster Hall. Jack Pur
cells Orchestra will play for the 
dancing.
The climax of Homecoming for 
Tech students will be the Home
coming Dance in the gym, featur
ing both the orchestra of Jimmy 
Grable and the jazz group of Walt 
Harper. At the dance the awards 
for Varsity Varieties and frater
nity displays, and the best pledge 
cheef will be presented.
TThe 1958 Homecoming ends 
with an open house at Morewood 
Gardens Sunday afternoon from 
2:00 to 5:00 p.m.
Dance Tickets
Tickets for the homecoming 
dance will be on sale in Skibo 
from 11:30 until 1:30 Tuesday 
through Friday. There are als* 
ticket sellers in the mens 
dorms, and Morewood Gar
dens, and in each fraternity 
who will have tickets until 
Friday. Tickets will also be 
sold at the door. You must 
have a ticket to enter the 
dance at any time.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 52NUMBER 4 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29. 1958
Harpo's Homecoming Schedule
1:30 p.m. 
3:00 p.m. 
*4:00 p.m.
^6:00 p.m. 
7:00 p.m. 
7:30 p.m. 
8:30 p.m.
* 9:00 a.m.
*10:30 a.m.- 
*12:00 noon 2:00 p.m.-
* 4:30 p.m.
* 6:30 p.m.- 
9:00 p.m.-
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31
Carnegie Day ExercisesGymnasium 
Varsity VarietiesGymnasium.
Homecoming Reception and TeaCarnegie 
Union.
-Class Reunion Dinners.
Judging of Fraternity Displays begins.
-Pep RallyTech Bowl.
Open House at all Fraternities.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 1
Alumni Breakfast and Council Meeting 
Morewood Gardens.
An Hour With Your Dean.
Homecoming LuncheonGymnasium. 
Football game, Carnegie vs. GenevaPitt 
Stadium.
Fifth Quarter Reception and Cocktail 
PartyWebster Hall.
All-Alumni Dinner DanceWebster Hall. 
Homecoming Dance, Featuring Jimmy 
Grable.
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 2
\ to 5 p.m.Open House at Morewood Gardens. 
bAlumni Functions
Prof. Moyer 
Next Lecturer
 Adrenalin and Tear, an ad
dress to be given by Professor 
Kenneth Moyer in the November 4 
af^Tech assembly, marks the third 
and last speech in the series,
; ???????????????????????< 
\\ Inside <?<?Banbury Cross ...page 4
Coed of the Week. page 2 
n Cultural Column . .page 7
dditorials ...........page 4
n Intramural News..page 
<? Calendar of
Events .............page 3
"Lunik ...............page 4
Queen Finalists . . .page 6 
Readers Write... .page 4 
Sports ................page 5
Frontiers of Research.
This title would not have been 
of mubh interest a year or two ago 
before Dr. Moyers rats began to 
upset all the popular theories 
about the effects of adrenalin in 
relation to anxiety behavior. The 
emotional responses of these rats 
housed in a Tech attic laboratory 
do not seems to vary very much 
when given either overdoses of 
adrenalin or when part of all of 
their adrenalin glands are remov
ed.
Background
Dr. Moyer, associate professor 
of phychology, is supported by the 
National Institute of Health, an 
agency of the department of 
health, education and welfare, in 
the hope that his research with 
rats will increase our knowledge 
of human emotional behavior. 
There is considerable hope that 
this objective will be gained be
cause human adrenalin glands dif
fer from those of rats only in size.
A graduate of Park College, Dr. 
Moyer received his masters and 
Ph.D. from Washington Univer
sity. He joined the CIT psychology 
 ' - [continued on page 11J1
Little Enthusiasm 
Shown At Friday 
Night Pep Rally
By Paul Hess
Another Friday night pep rally 
was held last week, and another 
sprinkling of Tech students turned 
out proving there is at least a 
small amount of school spirit on 
campus. But that amount seems to 
be very small indeed.
Attendance last week was some
what better than that of the pre
vious rally but was certainly noth
ing to be proud of. The rfiminutive group of loyal students fol
lowed the band and cheerleaders 
from Morewood to the Tech Bowl. 
Many carried torches and sang 
heartily. After several cheers and 
songs and some fashion of a bonbanded. Were it not for the vigor
ous support lent by the musicians, 
fire in the Bowl, the party dis
even residents of Donner Hall ad
jacent to the Bowl would prob{eowtintted on page 1\
Competition
Techs Homecoming 
Displays Described
Throughout the past two Weeks fraternities have been 
hard at work on their Homecoming displays. The wooden 
structure and wire figures do not yet resemble anything par
ticular, but at the end of the week, they will have formed 
displays for each fraternity according to their themes.
# Kappa>s o{ the BottleSorority Skits ! Imp has been bul" in,a display 
For Varieties
Six skits, with American and 
European curses as plots, will be 
presented Friday, at 3:30 in the 
gym. in the annual Varsity Varie
ties program. Jim DeBlasis will be 
master of ceremonies for the pro
gram.
Alpha Epsilon Phi
which is very easy to interpret. 
The Phi Kaps have a large man, 
representative of Tech, pushing a 
smaller man, who is the Bottle 
Imp, Geneva, back into his bottle. 
Tech is, in effect, bottling up 
Geneva fo' a football victory over 
the Covies. In the background 
there will be a football field, and 
the crowd at the field will be rep
resentative of old alumni.
Tau Delta Phi 
Tau Delta Phi has built their 
display around the theme of the
The Alpha Epsilon Phi sorority, ^^ ^aimt Rkhard III. The 
hose theme is Macbeth" makes! Tech football team will be repre-sented by the spirits of the eleven 
people who Richard III killed to 
get the throne of England. The 
spirits will be telling Richard, who 
is representative of the Covies, 
that he will lose his battle 
against Techs football team. The
whose theme is 
this satement:
The AE Philosophy 
for winning the game 
against Bible, their mascot, 
and Covies their name; 
since Heavens against us, 
were hell bent and so 
those who know go below.
Tri Delts 
The Tri Delts theme is the Gold 
en Touchdown:
 The days arrived 
The reckoning is here, 
Tri-Deltas will show you 
How Tech will win this year. 
Delta Gamma presents The! 
Evil Eye, the story of a feud 
between Techpatch and Geneva j 
which is resolved by a football; 
game to be played in Techpatch.
Kappa Alpha Theta 
Kappa Alpha Thetas Curse
Tau Delts will also have a musical 
background befitting their display 
of Olde England.
ASSEMBLY CANCELLED
Chancellor Litchfield was 
unable to speak yesterday due 
to a sudden illness. His talk 
will be rescheduled for Tues
day, December 2.
Characterization of the Legend 
of Sleepy Hollowr is the theme that 
was undertaken by Delta Tau
rs.'S.-SM Z1 Pi Kappa Alpa has incorporateddie.
Kappa Kappa Gamma will por
tray their interpretation of The 
Black Spot from Treasure Is
land.
Chi Omegas theme
Snow White 
Dwarfs.and the Tartan
their theme, Sleeping Beauty, into 
a display consisting of a castle 
with two sages set into the castle. 
On one stage there is the witch, 
representing Geneva, who cursed 
presents ] Sleeping Beauty and Sleeping
Beauty, who is the PiKas choict 
[continued on poge III

---------------------------------------------------

Faff# *CARNEGIE TARTANWedaeed?. October 29, l$5i
CoJ Of 5L Wed
Joan Kuenzig
Junior Biology Major
rmaaaa .ataaaaaaaaaaaaa
Entry Blank 
Coed of the Week Contest
Name ............
Address ........
Phone ..........
Submitted by
Drama Departments 
Current Production
By Betsy Moss
Although the action of The Crucible, current Drama 
Department production, is set for 1692, its bitter satire on the 
abuses of our judicial system and religious ideals makes it 
equally applicable for 1958. The Salem witch trials provide 
a rich background for a vibrant and provocative performance
by the drama students. ?---------------------------------------------------
Strong and forthright perform- j rises at 8:15 p.m. in the Fine Arts 
ances by Jerry Mickey as John Little Theater.
DemoeratsPlan 
Members Drive
On October 6, 1958, the Young 
Democrats Club was organized 
on the Carnegie Tech campus. The 
club, in accordance with the na
tional association, adopted a pur
pose consisting of the advancement 
of the Democratic party and stim
ulation of interest in politics on 
campus by making avilable more 
information. v
Plans
The November plans of the 
Young Democrats Club, include a 
membership drive to be held on 
Tuesday, November 11, at 4:30 in 
the Morewood Gardens rec room. 
Coffee and doughnuts will be serv
ed. At this meeting one of the lo
cal Democratic candidates will 
speak on Looking at the Election 
in Retrospect.
Convention
A representative of the Tech 
Club will attend the Young Dem
ocrats state convention in Scran
ton to be held in November. Also 
in November, the club will sched
ule a debate with the Young Re
publicans Club. In addition to this 
more formal meeting, the two or
ganizations are planning informal 
discussions of local, state, and na
tional political problems.
The Young Democrats bi
monthly meetings will be held in 
the Union and will include discus
sions of national problems and 
plans for the engaging of state of
ficials, governors and senators as 
speakers for the Tech campus.
The officers elected at the fix'st 
organization meeting were: presi
dent, William E. Pence; vicepresident, Donald C. Nelson; sec
retary, Kenneth K. Humphreys, 
and treasurer, John P. Crecine. 
The delegate to the Democratic 
Clubs of Allegheny County is John 
S. Hood.
Thistles
Tuesday, October 28, and 
Thursday, October 30, from 
11:30 until 1:30 will be final 
days for picking up 1958 This
tles in Skibo. The week after 
Homeeoming on Tuesday, No
vember 4, and Thursday, No
vember 6, all remaining 1958 
Thistles will be on open sale 
in Skibo from 11:30 until 1:30 
on a first come, first served 
basis. Thistle receipts for 1958 
books will be honored then as 
long as the book supply lasts.
LITTLE MAN ON.CAMPUS
Proctor, and Janet Young as his 
wife were supported by an able 
cast. Especially notable were 
Gayle Greene as a conniving 
young seductress, Eugene Tyrnauer as the persuasive but book
ish Reverend Hale, and Loretta 
Michaels as a nervous, flighty 
maid in the Proctor household.
Background
Under the direction of Charles 
Werner Moore, the play was 
staged, set, and lighted to provide 
an effective background for the 
intrigues of the plot.
Adding fine characterizations 
were Ellen Kaplan as Mrs. Ann 
Putnam, Joel Levinson as DeputyGovernor Danforth, Ivan Curry as" 
Rev. Parris, Elizabeth Hendry as 
Rebecca Nurse, Don Beck as Giles 
Cory, and Peggy Hughes as 
Tituba.
The cast also included: Michael 
Stroka as Thomas Putnam, Gerald 
Dugan as Ezekial Cheever, Gordon 
Smith as John Willard, Consuelo 
Freeland as Sarah Good, Nancy 
McCarthy as Mercy Lewis, James 
Parker as Judge Hawthorne, John 
Wolcott as Francis Nurse, and 
Francesca Reed as Susanna Wallcott.
The final three performances 
will be held on Wednesday, Octo
ber 29, Thursday, October 30, and 
Monday, November 3. The curtain
The Drama Departments next 
production, Charles Morgans The 
River Line, will open on Thurs
day, November 20. It will be di
rected by Mary Morris.
Wed. Meeting 
Of Cong ress
The bi-weekly Congress meet
ing was held last Wednesday, Oct. 
22, at 4:40, in Porter Hall 100.
Chairman Mary Jane Stevens of 
the rules committee announced 
that all Congress members must 
either help with selling tickets, or 
putting up and taking down the 
dance decorations for Homecom
ing or else they will be charged 
with an absence for a Congress 
meeting.
Nancy Tull of the library com
mittee reported about the meeting 
which she and her committee had 
with the head librarian at Tech. 
Some of the issued discussed were: 
putting a return book box outside 
of Administration Hall; dealing 
with the problem of the limited 
number of some reserve books; 
extending library hours; installing 
suggestion boxes in the libraries 
for ideas for improving the li
brary system. Nancy also anJ im my Grables 
Orchestra Playing 
At Homecoming
The 1958 Homecoming Dance 
which will be held in the Tech 
gym from 9:00 to 1:00 on Satur
day, November 1, is actually going 
to consist of two sub-dances, 
For Techites who prefer slow fox 
trots and quiet dancing, Jimmy 
Grable and his ten piece orches
tra will play in the main gym. 
This group will provide slow mu
sic all evening. For those who en
joy jazz music, Walt Harper with 
six pieces and a vocalist will be 
playing in Thistle Hall. He will 
present a program of selected jazz 
numbers.
The dance will be semi-formal. 
Tickets may be purchased for 
$3.50 from representatives of Stu
dent Congress.
nounced the Fine Arts Library will 
be open on Sunday afternoons 
starting in November.
Public Relations 
Mary Jane Stevens announced 
that the public relations commit
tee had begun its campaign to 
publicize Student Congress on 
campus by running articles on its 
activities in the Tartan.
Fred Heider of the Homecom
ing Committee announced that 
queen elections would be held on 
October 23. He mentioned that 
Harpo buttons will be sold by 
Delta Skull members on Thursday 
and Friday, Oct. 30 and 31, in 
[continued on page 6]
*1 finally Gcrr apunp cate foe your onpag her we CAN BVm STAY OUI PA^T ClCeiN& WOUtt,*
Carnegie Day Program
Selections by the Kiltie Symphonic Band 
George E. Reynolds, Director
Master of Ceremonies _____.Pete Sargeant, D59
Selection by Kiltie Band
JteAlumni Message ..........................................Mr. Kenneth Reed
President, Alumni Federation
Call of Honoraies
Alpha Phi Omega...................David Campbell, C.E. 60
Phi Kappa Phi.......................David C. Saylor, M.E. 20
.Claymore Cian...........................David Hill, Physics 59
Phi Tau Gamma.  ..................Greta Gilmartin, M 61
Omicron Delta Kappa.............................David Dull, I.M.
Omicron Nu.............................Dorothy Beehner, H.E. 59
Selections by the Cameron Choir
Richard L. Camp, Director 
Call of Honoraries
Delta Skull....................................Ed. MacEwen, P.D. 60
Pi Tau Sigma.......................................Jan Novak, M.E. 59
Tau Sigma Delta.......................Don Tellalian, Arch,
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia____Mike Perlakowski, M. 59
Pi Delta Epsilon.....Dorothy Beehner, H.E. 59
Sigma Alpha Iota.........................Natalie Laird, M. 60
Selection by Kiltie Band 
Awards and Presentations
Presentation of Senior Class Plaque by
Delta Skull..............................Ed. MacEwen, P.D. 6^
Council of Fraternity Presidents
Scholarship Trophy................Dick Spohn, M.E. 59
Pittsburgh Panhellenic Trophy.. . .Fran Bebic, M. 59
Junior Panhellenic Trophy............................................
.........................................Pat Cunningham, Psych. 60
Mortar Board Award...........................Fran Bebic, M. 59
Tau Beta Freshman Award... .Fred Heider, C.E. 
Freshman Traditions Award. John Crecine, Physics 61
Scholars and Honor Students.. .Dr. Robert B. Beckmann
Professor, Chemical Engineering
Presentation of President J. C. Warner
CYlairman, General Faculty
Coronation of the Homecoming Queen -
Coronation Processional.......................The Kiltie Pipers
Scabbard and Blac!^ 
Crowning of the Queen.......................President Warner
Court Entertainment.................Denise Getsie, H.E. 59
1955 Homecoming Queen
Official Opening of Homecoming... .Homecoming Queen
Fight for the Glory of Carnegie.................Robert Schmertz
The Kiltie Symphonic Band
w

---------------------------------------------------

* Wednesday/October 29. 958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3r
Calendar of Events
4:30
4:40
4#* 
12:20
8:40
2:00
2:00
*>:00
3:10
11:30
3:30
Wednesday, October 29
p.m.Student Congress Committee Heads Meeting
........................ More wood Gardens Dorm Council Room
Thursday, October 30
p.m. and 7:45 p.m.Film Arts Presentation of Stage Coach
....................................................................... 100 Porter Hall
Friday, October 37
p.m.Day Classes EndEvening Classes as Usual (See Home
coming Schedule, Page 1, For a Breakdown on Home
coming Activities
-Pittsburgh Symphony Concert.........................Syria Mosque
Saturday, November 1
-Tech-Geneva Football Game..........................Pitt Stadium
Sunday, November 2
p.m.-5:00 p.m.Open House............................................................
....................................Morewood Gardens and Laurel Hall
p.m.Emerson Club Meeting, Dr. Bernard Boehland of Duquesne University^Speaker ... t............Unitarian Church
p.m.Pittsburgh Symphony Concert........................Syria Mosque
Tuesday, November 4 
a.m.All School Assembly Featuring Dr. Kenneth Moyer
Speaking On Adrenalin and Fear... .Fine Arts Theater 
p.m.Y Coffee Hour ....................................................................Skibo
p.m.-
p.m.
^SCE Plans 
Club Activities
Plans of the activities for this 
semester for the members of 
Techs student chapter of the 
American Society of Civil En
gineers were announced last week 
by the organizations program 
^hairman. Gedeon Picher.
Yesterday morning, the ASCE 
members saw the films Transit 
Traverse for Topographic Map
ping, and Pipeline Ten, show
ing the work of a civil engineer 
with an oil company.
The ASCE has scheduled varied 
activities for its members. On 
November 18, the civil engineers 
will hear a speaker from Bell 
Telephone, and late that month 
hey will take a field trip to the 
U.S. Steel Research Laboratory in 
Monroeville.
Two more speakers and two ad
ditional films are to be scheduled 
for this semester. According to Mr. 
Picher, The various speakers and 
selected films bridge the gap be
tween idealized theory and prac
tical necessity by bringing the out
side in.
Attend Meetings
ASCE members will also have 
the opportunity to attend meet
ings of the parent chapter of AS 
CE, which, Mr. Picher says sup
plement the program designed to 
further the student along profes
sional lines. 
In addition to professional activ
ities, the ASCE sponsors social 
functions and athletic events. One 
smoker was held earlier this 
Jtoonth and another is planned for 
ihe near iuture. The ASCE now 
has a football team in IM com
petition and plans to enter bask
etball and softball competitions.
Newspaper ' 
The first issue of the ASCE 
newspaper, THE TRIPOD, camfe 
out yesterday, October 28. This 
bi-weekly publication, carries the 
status of the ASCE IM teams- and 
news of the civil department, the 
glasses, and social and professional 
events.
Membership in the student 
chapter of the ASCE is open to all 
sophomores, juniors, and seniors in 
the civil engineering department. 
The officers of the organization 
include Jim Niece as president, 
Bob Larry as vice-president, Bill 
Poellet as secretary, and Frank 
Balena as treasurer. The ASCE 
faculty advisor is Dr. James P. 
^Jfcomauldi of the Civil department.
Homecoming Week
All Student Congress members 
who signed up fofr Homecoming 
work are reminded that the 
Sunday session, November 2, 
will begin at 1 p.m. in the gym.
Margaret McLean 
Noted Authority 
At Carnegie Tech
Dr. Margaret P. McLean, ac
claimed by many of her peers as 
the greatest living authority on 
the relationship of speech to per 
sonal development, and its use in 
the theater, is currently at Carne
gie Institute of Technology as a 
visiting lecturer in the drama de
partment.
Dr. McLean, who is working 
with Techs veteran speech pro
fessor Edith Skinner, arrived on 
the campus this month and will 
remain until after the middle of 
December.
Past Experience 
Besides teaching at the Charles 
Laughtons Classes in Shakes
peare, Dr. McLean has instructed 
at numerous other private dra 
matic schools, and at Columbia 
University, New York University, 
University of California at Berk
ley, and U.C.L.A.
Her career has not been lim
ited to dramatic training alone 
She has helped such varied people 
as clergymen, club-women, sales
men, nuns, psychiatrists, teachers, 
and lawyers.
Famous Pupils 
Mrs. McLeans pupils have in 
eluded many prominent stars of 
stage, screen and television 
Among these are Audie Murphy, 
Ann Baxter, Carol Landis, Anth
ony Quinn, Anita Ekberg, Eva and 
Zsa Zsa Gabor, Jane Wyatt, John 
Garfield, Shelly Winters, producLibrary Sponsoring 
Exhibit Of Some 
Neglected Books*
By Jeannette Dequinze
A new exhibit, entitled 'Some 
Neglected Books  is now on dis
play in the main library. Mrs. 
Sally Rowley, head reference li
brarian, said that the list of books 
was compiled by a group of 
scholars who feel that these books 
have not received the attention 
that they should have. Among the 
books being displayed are Pylon 
by William Faulkner and Ad
ventures of Ideas by Alfred North 
Whitehead.
Sometime this fall Mrs. Rowley 
is planning to arrange a display of 
business literature aimed at in
teresting the S.I.A. school. The 
Thanksgiving exhibit will be cen
tered around American heritage 
or freedoms.
English Displays 
A series of displays is planned 
for February and March concern
ing the English department lec
tures. A special display is also be
ing planned for National Library 
Week in April.
Mrs. Rowley said that in the 
exhibits, which are changed every 
two weeks, she tries to alternate 
between current events and things 
of interest to the school as a whole 
hoping to.interest all departments 
in something that might not or
dinarily interest them.
As all the future exhibits for 
this year have not been planned 
yet, Mrs. Rowley stated that she 
will consider doing displays for 
student organizations. We have in 
Fund and once for the Home Ec
onomics Club. The students may 
help in setting up such displays 
if they wish. We are interested in 
receiving requests from students.
Another part of the library ex
hibits is the art prints on the 
bulletin board in the reference 
room. These are obtained from the 
Fine Arts Library and are chang
ed approximately once a month. 
Usually the pictures tie in with 
the season, or they may be the 
work of a single artist.
Emrson Club 
Weekly Meeting
Dr. Bernard Boehland of Duquesne University will be the 
guest speaker at the Emerson 
Club meeting Sunday, November 
2, at 3:00 p.m. He has chosen 
Existentialism as his topic, this 
will be the third lecture in the 
Clubs current philosophy series. 
Following the program will be re
freshments and a social hour. 
Thats Sunday, November 2,  at 
3:00 at the First Unitarian Church 
(corner of Ellsworth and Morewood).
Women's
Basketball
Womens intramural basket
ball starts on Wednesday, No
vember 12, 1958. All entries 
must be in by October 31, 
1958, and the tournament wilt 
begin on November 12 and 
continue until December 17, 
1958. This tournament is open 
to all women on campus. Pick 
up your entry blank in the 
Womens Gym Office (room 1).
er Harold Hecht and Virginia 
Mayo.
Dr. McLean is the author of the 
popular texts Good American 
Speech and Oral Interpretation 
of Eorms of Literature, both pub
lished by E. P. Dutton & Co. of 
New York.
Students!!
1 Hour Dry Cleaning
2 Hour Shirt Laundry 
Rough Dry Laundry 
Tailoring and Repairing
Campus Cleaners
4609 Forbes Ave.
(Near Craig Street)
On CampuswithMaxShulman
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek")
THE DRESS PARADE
In all my years of observing coed fashionsand I have beea 
arrested many timesI have never seen such verve, such dash, 
such Je ne sais quoi as can be found in this years styles!
I am particularly enchanted by the new baby waist dresses 
which so many of you girls are favoring this season. How 
demure you all look in your baby waists! How sweet! How 
innocent! How colorful when your housemother lifts you up 
and burps you after dinner!
Another trend that leaves me limp with rapture is the over
sized handbag. Goodbye to dinky little purses that hold nothing 
at all! Hurrah for todays sensibly sized bag with plenty of 
room for your makeup, your pens and pencils, your shelter 
half, your Slinky toy, your MG, and your Marlboros.
Did I say Marlboros? Certainly I said Marlboros. What girl 
can consider herself in the van. in the swim, and in the know, 
if she doesnJ smoke Marlboros? What man, for that matter. 
Do you want a filter that is truly new, genuinely advanced, 
but at the same time, does not fob you of the full flavor of 
first-rate tobacco? Then get Marlboro. Also get matches because 
the pleasure you derive from a Marlboro is necessarily limited 
if unlit.
To return to coed fashions, let us now discuss footwear. The 
popular flat shoe was introduced several years ago when it 
became obvious that girls were growing taller than boys. For 
a while the flat shoes kept the sexes in a state of uneasy balance, 
but today they will no longer serve. Now, even in flats, girls 
are towering over their dates, for the feminine growth rate has 
continued to rise with disturbing speed. In fact, it is now 
thought possible that we will see fifteen-foot girls in our lifetime.
But science is working on the problem, and I feel sure 
American know-how will find an answer. Meanwhile, a tem
porary measure is availablethe reverse wedgie.
The reverse wedgie is simply a wedgie turned around. This 
tilts a girl backward at a 45 degree angle and cuts as much as 
three feet off her height. It is, of course, impossible to walk in 
this position unless you have support, so your date will have to 
keep his arm around your waist at all times. This will tir him 
out in fairly short order; therefore you must constantly give 
him encouragement. Keep looking up at him and batting your 
lashes and repeating in awed tones, How strong you are, 
Shorty!!
Next we turn to hair styling. The hair-do this year is definitely 
the cloche-coif. One sees very few crew cuts or Irene Castle 
bobs, and the new Mohican cut seems not to have caught on 
at all. In fact, I saw only one girl with a MohicanRhodelle 
H. Sigafoos, a sophomore of Bennington. Her classmates laughed 
and laughed at her, but it was Rhodelle who had the last laugh, 
for one night a dark, handsome stranger leaped from behind a 
birch and linked his arm in Rhodelles and said, I am Uncas, 
the last of the Mohicansbut I need not be the last, dear lady, 
if you will but be my wife. Today they are happily ljiarried 
and run a candied-apple stand near Macon, Ga., and have three 
little Mohicans natned Patti, Maxine, and Laverne.
I IMS Mu ahula
Congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Uncas and to all of you who 
have discovered the pleasures of Marlboro and Marlboro's 
sister cigarette, non-filter Philip Morris, both mad by th/9 
sponsor of this column.

---------------------------------------------------

raff 4CANieMt TATANiNAweSy, 9, MM
HrMCmrim F^mmrm
CompetitionLunik The Schenlcy Ape
Each year after major events such as 
Homecoming and Spring Carnival the fac
ulty, administration, and student body in
dividually or collectively discuss the evils of 
competition. The Tartan is equally guilty of 
such folly. However, this year wed like to 
jump in a little early with this venture, in 
the hope that a word to the wise will prove 
more valabue while the sororities are practic
ing their skits and the fraternities are build
ing their displays.
Certainly competitive activities are valu
able. Part of college education is learning to 
work and to lead others. But as pleasant as 
the displays and skits are to view, the value 
of the pleasure and experience is offset by 
the ill-feelings aroused and the exhaustion 
caused by the intense work that goes on for 
so many wreeks before the event.
(In order to lessen the time spent on 
Homecoming and to prevent summer activity 
the Homecoming Committee had each fra
ternity and sorority submit three ideas, one 
of which was to be pulled from a hatit was 
assumed that no group would go to the trou
ble of completing plans for all three.
If there is a need for unified effort to in
sure fraternity spirit and leadership exper[continued on page JO]
pilllllllilillllllllllim
| Readers Write . . . j
rrtiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiM
Eliminate All Restrictions
Editor, the Tartan:
Mr. Wiley, in his editorial of September 1958 is self
contradictory. He writes that permanent 12:30s will in
crease weekend studying, a laudable purpose to be sure.
However, he goes on to say that*----------------------------------------------
if there were no hours most dates 
would end earlier than 12:30. He 
is defeating his own argument.
The real reasons for forcing 
Tech girls back to their cages at 
12:30 or 1:30 or any other hour 
are part of Americas neo-victorian 
attitudes towards women. The fe
male is defenseless. She needs 
protection from the hardships of 
the world. In this case the hard
ships are those defilers of chas
tity, the Tech males. We are cer
tain that anyone who has dated a 
few Morewood girls seriously won
ders how much protection the girls 
need.
There can be no justifiable rea
son for Morewood hours. The only 
course of action that Techa pro
gressive and intellectually honest 
organizationshould take is to 
eliminate all restrictions on More
wood girls.
Sincerely,
Alan Duchan,
Honda Lee, Nephew.
#???????
Orval Faubus
Blenheim?
Editor, the Tartan:
In the recent Tartan column on 
architectural criticism, perhaps 
you, the editor, could supply a 
point of information.
Just who is Blenheim?
Sincerely,
Marcia Spires 
Arch. 61 
(Editors note: Blenheim is a 
pen name /or a Tartan writer who 
prefers anonimity. Communica
tions should be addressed to 
Blenheim in care of the Tartan.)
Pro Darby
Editor, the Tartan:
It is interesting to see the reac
tions which can be caused by 
one newspaper article.
The editorial concerning More
wood Gardens new 12:30 rule 
caused Rufus B. Darby to ex
perience such a reaction and his 
clearly expressed opinion (oppos
ed, incidentally, to the editors) 
was published the following week. 
His sarcastic style was ruthless
ly rebuked by the Tartan editor 
in an effort to soften the criticism. 
And now attacks have been made 
on both Darbys letter and the 
editors rebuttal!
Can Mr. Darbys position be ex
plained? To answer this, we must 
ask ourselves two questions;' first, 
what is Rufus B. Darbys motive 
for writing such a letter, and, sec
ond, is he wrong to use the lit
erary techniques of sarcasm and 
exaduration? The first answer, 
that Mr. Darbys motive is to 
question the true sensibility and
Disband Football Team?
Editor, the Tartan:
As was announced during the past week, there was a 
pep rally. As a matter of fact, there was a half-decent student 
turnout (about 120 people, many with torches and at first it 
~~~~ ?seemed that if this one would, be
much more of a success than the 
last. However, once the group 
reached the Tech Bowl, this idea 
was quickly dispensed. The de
tails of what occurred need not be 
given, but it was well demon
strated that the student body was 
not there to support the team, as 
usual.
It is now quite apparent that the 
students of Carnegie Tech are not 
apathetic; rather they are deter
mined to actually defeat any at
tempt to arouse school spirit, and 
will go to any lengths to do so. 
Therefore, since the evidence is 
extremely strong that the student 
body does not want to support 
their own team and the cheer
leaders who are trying to do so, I 
hereby suggest we disband these 
organizations and eliminate them 
from the Tech campus. An organ
ization which has no useful pur
pose has no reson to exist, and 
since it is apparent that the foot
ball team and cheerleaders are 
serving no useful purpose, what 
reason do they have for existence?
There will probably be several 
objections to this, but if viewed 
from an objective point of view, 
the chief reason for the football 
team is to represent the student 
body on the field, and if the stu
dent body does not want to be rep
resented, as is obvious, what jus
tification is there that they con
tinue to be an active organization 
on this campus?
Bob Beatty 
I.M. 60
Call Day
Call Day, Techs official Home
coming beginning, will be held 
in the gym Friday, October 31, at 
1:30. Many students do not real
ize the significance of this day. 
Not only do honoraries make 
calls to membership, but club 
awards are made, and the Home
coming Queen and her court are 
presented to the student body for 
the first time.
Music
In addition to the "business of 
the day, the Kiltie Concert Band 
and the Cameron Choir have 
worked diligently to present en
tertaining music to the assembly. 
Varsity Varieties, sorority Com
petition, also adds to the fun of 
the afternoon.
The Homecoming Committee 
encourages those students to be 
called, and all students to come to 
Call Day. With no classes, and 
plenty of room in the gym, lets 
have a big student and faculty 
turnout, and officially open Home
coming in a true campus spirit!
Becky Conrad,
Call Day chairman
Psirus
I refer you to the Readers 
Write column of October 22, 1958, 
in which one will find a communi
cation signed .Willie. It was with 
increasing annoyance that I read 
this pretentous article. Surely 
Master Willie does not expect to 
be taken seriously, especially in 
light of the fact that not only are 
his arguments far from the point,
but further they are expressed in 
[continued on page 12] [English which must appear foul
even to a freshman at our beloved 
institution.
An audacious rascal, he chal
lenges my status on this hallowed 
[continued on page 12]
We are witnessing in parts of our country 
today a travesty of democracy. In ever in
creasing frequency manifestations of law
lessness, terrorism and prejudice appear in 
the land, especially in those states which 
once attempted to form confederacy of so > 
ereign nations for the preservation of a way 
of life dedicated to the betterment and pleas
ure of the few at the expense of the many.
Considering the leaders involved, the 
most infamous seems to be a Mr. Orval 
Faubus, the governor newly elected of the 
sovereign state of Arkansas. Mr. Faubus is 
chosen for supreme contempt from among 
such men as James Byrnes, Harry Byr> 
Lindsay Almond and Kissin Jim Folsom 
because he seems to sum up in a particu
larly effective way the vileness -and rotten
ness that these other men are only able to 
suggest.
Segregation
The most obvious of Mr. Faubus sins is 
his belief in segregation. Since on our own campus we have 
institutionalized segregation in our fraternity and sorority 
organizations, we may not permit ourselves to criticize. We 
are all condemned for this sin.
No less noxious; Mr. Faubus has set himself and his 
community superior to his nation. When he called out the 
Guard last September, he implied that the states were of 
power greater than the Federal Government; that one peo
ple had the right to defy the wishes of all the people. When 
he defied the continuingly conservative Supreme- Court 
which declared segregation alien to the spirit of the Const) 
tutio, he in essence said that he, po white trash, was better 
able to decide what was justice than the nine men of vast 
education, sobriety, and tradition sitting on the highest court 
of the land.
Hatred
Perhaps most frightening about Mr. Faubus is not his 
hatred of integration, which is understandable but not ex
cusable; nor his defiance of the Federal Government, which 
is well founded in our history; but his method of action. 
man may believe as he will, this is his duty in a democracy, 
but he must obey certain unstated but vital rules in his ex
position of those views. Mr. Faubus has flaunted every rule 
of civilized debate and legal procedure in his quest for 
success and segregation. He has taken actuation in which 
moderation was pre-eminent, called on the foulest elements
[continued on page 6]
<*CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13,
Pa.'Office phone, MU 2-4557; Co-Editors EM 1-7157 and MU 2-9053;
Advertising Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school
year except holidays and examination periods by the students of
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------to
Co-Editor ........................................................................................................................ Carol Soolty
Co-Editor ....................................................................................................................... Richard Wiley
Associate Editor ................................................................................................................ David Dull
Business Manager ...................................................................................................... Michael Bass
News Editor .......................................................................................................................... Tom Bieg
Sports Editor ................................................................................................................ George Paris
Copy Editor ......... .................................................................................................. Jerry Sullivan
Assistant News EditorJanyce Notopoulos, Feature EditorLex 
Baker, Photography EditorAlan Gickler, Assistant Business Mana
gerLee Adlesberg, Advertising ManagerMike Balsam; Assistant 
Advertising ManagerMiles Hollander; SecretaryRena Siegal, Cir
culation ManagerGary Brandenburger, Assistant Sports EditorEd 
Blum. _________M
News StaffMike Clayton, Marianne Hadle, Natalie Laird, Nancy 
Tull, Terrie Rudy, Beth Liden, Paul Hess, Dru Shapiro, Bill Mohney, 
Arlene Qugrico, Bob Novak, Linda Friedlob, Georgia White, Sally 
Gonong, Lois Wolfe, Betsy Moss, Mike Brunt, Dori Cline, Phil James, 
Carolyn Saxton, Toni Friedman.Sports Staff  Dick Hamilton, Pete Pence,- Stan Zionts, Mike 
Beaman.Copy StaffFrank Baloh, Sperce Anderson, Jim Flowers. 
Circulation StaffJim Phillips, Lary Dominik.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Second class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for naUonal advertising by National Advertising, Inc. ^

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. October 98. m*~-CARNEGIE TART AMPage 5
*<?>
George Paris  Sports Editor
Cross-country Trio
Tech's senior trio of (from left to right) Eric Ottervick, Bill Wittman and Dick Hamilton in famil.iar tie finish against Westminster. The trio set a new school record of 24:02 minutes as Tech defeated 
the Titans 24-34 on the Schenley Park course.
tireless Tech trio romped home in 
a collective school record, ripping 
27 seconds from the old mark set 
by Eric Ottervik last year. As Eric 
commented after the race, its not 
that we really want to tie, but 
were so evenly matched this year 
that starting together is equivalent 
to finishing together.
As usual this season, the Tech 
I thinclads put on a fine show of 
I team unity and outstanding depth.
I The top seven men finished under 
i 26 minutes for the 4.5 mile grind, 
i a time which in most seasons 
j would bring a good second or third 
| spot on the team. Junior Bill An' derson, who next season will have 
i the unenviable task of filling the 
j three pairs of jet-powered shoes 
| left behind by the front running 
| seniors, improved on his best per! iormance by 32 seconds. Soph 
i Glen Klepac also showed fab
ulous improvement chasing ex
footballer Bruce Dobras in for 
seventh and eighth places  both 
posting their seasons best efforts.
The most exciting race of the 
day came as Senior Woody Fritz 
I lost a hot stretch race by a foot 
I in the last 50 yards.
Commenting on the team. Coach 
Bob Carman praised all the team 
members for their hard work and 
' fierce team loyalty. These boys 
j have, as a group, the essential re
quirement for greatness as distj ance runners, he said, they soak 
up hard work like a sponge takes 
I up water. He cited in particular 
the performance of Senior Bill 
Wittman who is improving at an 
I astonishing rate and now ranks as 
one of the districts best.
I Summary;
1. Sanders (W) ___ 23:32
2. Ottervic (C) ........
3. Hamilton (C) tie - 24:02
4. Wittman (C) ....
5. Truxel CW)...........24:56
6. Shaw (W) .......... 25:06
7. Anderson (C) .... 25:22
8. Dobras (C) ..........25:42
9. Klepac (C).............25:51
Cross Country Team
Left t right, front to rear, the team members are: Coach Bob Car
man, Bruce Dobras, Bill Wittman, Dick Hamilton, Patty Lyn Carman, 
Eric Ottervick, Woody Fritz, Glen Klepa, Bill Anderson, Finn Blomquist, Patt Chamey, Dave Degenhart.
Cross-Country Coach Raves 
About Team Managers Spirit
by Bob Carman 
Cross Country Coach
Behind the scenes in any col
lege varsity sport one will find 
a group of students who have a 
lot to do with the success or failure 
of their particular team. These are 
the managers. If they peVform 
their tasks adequately, the team 
will probably survive. If they per
form poorly or not at all, the team 
suffers. If by some stroke of good 
fortune a manager appears who 
performs his job with itnelligence, 
dependability, and the deceptive 
smoothness of a Houdini, the team 
should shine.
Techs cross-country team this 
year is certainly the brightest star 
in the local harrier heaven, and 
sure enough, a top notch manager 
is behind the scenes polishing like 
mad! The Tartans manager, Char
lie DeVaux, acts as assistant
coach, nursemaid, father, con
fessor, clock-watcher, equipment 
| man, cheer leader, chauffeur, 
trainer, historian, messenger boy, 
and top-man-in-c h a r g e-of-getting-towels-from-F rank.
Technically, Charlie is a Sopho| more Architect who calls Haver ford, Pennsylvania his home.
' Rumor has it that he migrated to 
| Tech after being fired as a man
ager at Bryn Mawr. On the 
I serious side, Coach Bob Carman 
i echoed the team sentiments when 
j he commented, a managers job 
j is generally a thankless, gloryless 
I one, and most of them are resigned 
! to that fact, but I would h*e to 
see such an outstanding joV p 
unnoticed. He makes this team 
! click. At least a dozen men on 
| campus are nodding -their heads in 
l affirmation.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
Paul (W) ........
Fritz (C) ..........
Blomquist (C) ., 
Degenhardt (C) 
Stowe (W) ...,
25:58
25:59
26:11
26:45
26:53
Carnegie Tartan
Tartans Romp to 24-0 
Win Over Presidents
Techs gridiron Tartans got back in the winning track 
by romping over the W&J Presidents 24-0. 
The Tartans jumped off to a quick lead in the first half 
and helw the W&J offense throughout the game for an easy 
win. All of Techs TDs came on long runs which were the
 Tech and W&J
Urudentified Tech Back skirts end after taking pitchout from Jim Mutk
J result of excellent deception and 
1 vicious downfield blocking.
I Tech scored quickly the first 
[j time they had the ball when John 
 Zinni returned a punt 20 yards to 
S midfield. After carrying the ball 
B to the W&J 11, Zinni skirtea end
Efo^the score. A pass failed to 
make the extra two points and 
Tech led 6-0.
Tech held W&J on downs and 
 took over again at mid-field. On 
 the third play from scrimmage, 
Leroy McElhinny took a Muth 
pitchout and romped 46 yards for 
the second score. The conversion 
attempt was wide and Tech led at 
th^quarter by a 12 to 0 score.
oick Luppi playing his first 
game at quarterback scored next 
on a play that covered 76 yards. 
McElliheny went up the center of 
the Prexie line and was finally hit 
by the W&J safety man. He spun 
and lateralled to Luppi who romp
ed the remaining 55 yards for the 
score. Again a Tech pass failed to 
make the extra points and halft'lfc found the score at Carnegie 
18 W&J 0.
Rain hampered play throughout 
the second half and neither team 
could mass up much of an offense 
I Coach Baker substituted freely 
and most of Techs reserves got 
into the game.
Jimmy Muth broke away for a 
41 yard touchdown run in the 
third quarter that was nullified by 
a clipping penalty. A run of 45 
yqJKs by McEllhihney was also 
called back to deprive Tech of. an
other score.
In the final quarter Pete Wilson 
tiptoed 54 yards up the right side
line for the last Tech score. A run 
failed to make the extra points 
and the final score stood at Tech 24 W&J 0.
The Tartans will take a 4-1 rec
c'd into their Homecoming game 
Saturday with Geneva. The
Covies Have 
Good Record
The Geneva Covies, Techs 
Homecoming opponents, have 
proved to be one of the top col
legiate football teams in the na
tion so far this year.
Going into their game last Sat
urday with Slippery Rock State 
Teachers College, the Covies were 
the only Western Pennsylvania 
team listed by the National Colle
giate Football Bureau among the 
top ten teams in the nation. In 
their first four games of the sea
son, Geneva limited its opponents 
to a net gain of 434 yards or an 
average of 108.5 yards per game, 
and were listed ninth in the na
tion in defense.
Homecoming
The Homecoming Game, No
vember 1, will be the eighteenth 
game in which the Tartans have 
faced the Covies since their first 
meeting in 1907. In the seventeen 
previous games, the Tartans won 
nine, lost seven, and tied one 
game with Geneva. Last year the 
Covies won four games, lost three, 
and tied two. One of those ties 
was a 7-7 deadlock with the Tar
tans.
game will be played at Pitt Sta
dium and a large crowd is ex
pected.Statistics
TECH w *
19.................... First downs ...................2
16 ..................... By rushing ...................... 1
1 ....................... By passing ....................... 1 2................. By nenalties ...................0
409........... Yards gained rushing........... 54
13......................... Passes .......................... 9 3............ Passes completed ...............2 2............Passes intercepted ............... 1i.i 4/4.... Punting average ...........31 5/11
3 ...................... Fumbles ......................... 7
1............. Fumbles lost ................... 1
5......... ............ Penalties    ............... 3
.........Yards penalized ...................45
Field-Hockey 
Team Wins
At Chatham on Thursday, Octo
ber 23, 1958, the Womens Ath
letic Association Field hockey 
club beat the Chatham girls 3-0. 
Though it was raining and the 
field slippery, the Tech girls were 
able to score two goals during the 
first half and one goal during the 
last half.
The Tech field hockey club will 
next play Chatham at Chatham on 
November 4, at 4:15.
Cross-Country Team
Defeats Westminster
On Friday, the Carnegie Tech cross-country team notch
ed their fourth straight West Penn conference victory by 
crushing Westminster 24-34. The loss was the first for th* 
Titans, and may prove the deciding factors in the conference
championship. ? -----------------------for
Highlighting the race was a j Wittman. Paul Sanders, Westspectacular, record breaking tie for ; minsters record-breaking tri-state 
second place by Carnegies terrible champ, took his expected first 
triplets  Ottervik, Hamilton, and ! place in excellent time. But the

---------------------------------------------------

Page CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 29, 1958
'Te pea*"-the 
TMOsPrteeer e1\ 
WK*. A MVJ5 
ROOM Hi'
Lana Kubasek
Music
Citcom, Met Grads
KS, TX Still Lead
By Ed Blum
Kappa Sigma, Citcom, Theta Xi, and the Met Grads 
each kept winning streaks alive this past week in intra
mural football to stay atop their respective leagues. Com
petition is exceedingly fierce for the lead in the Yankee
League, where three undefeatec#--------------------------------------------------
.teams are tussling for the cham
pionship. And in the Pirate 
League, too. Citcom and Kappa 
Sigma are each intent on taking the 
league crown away from the other. 
The Met Grads stand as the sole 
undefeated team in the Brooklyn 
League, but ATO A. narrow losers 
to the Grads a week ago, is main
taining the pressure and hoping 
for a Grad loss that will precipi
tate a tie.
The action has been continually 
rough, with crisp blocking and 
swiff running and passing, and the 
invigorating fall air, combined 
with matchless team spirit, has 
kept all games spiritedly comCongress
[continued from page 2] 
Skibo and at many of the various 
activities during the weekend. 
Homecoming programs will be 
free.
Dick Aust of the leadership 
committee told Congress about the 
fall leadership conference which 
will be held this year for Fresh
men. It should occur sometime 
around Thanksgiving.
During new business Bob Cleve
land announced that the INSTEP 
students wish to work with a Stu.... . | dent Congress committee to co-petitive to the end. Many upsets : r, , . . , ,, T, . , , . i ordinate the bringing of the In-and near upsets have been regis- _________________ ____________
tered. and more than one game has 
been decided on first down points.
Intramural football action is con
tinuing in its usual spirited way.
Pirate League
dian students into campus life.
The motions that were passed 
at this meeting were:
1. That Student Congress ap
prove the Homecoming Commit
tees budget for 1^58.
2. That the Explorers Club re
ceive tentative recognition as an 
organization by Student Congress.
3. That the following recom
mendation be sent to Mr. Miller or 
any other proper authority; Stu
dent Congress go on record as 
recommending provisions in the 
new mens dormitory for a tele
phone outlet in each individual 
room be made.
4. That all Student Congress 
elections which are to be con
ducted by Alpha Phi Omega be 
held on Tuesday between 11:30 
a.m. and 1:30 p.m.
5. That Student Congress ap
prove the Spring Carnival Com
mittees having a jazz concert on 
campus providing this concert does 
not cost Student Congress any 
money.
Bob Cleveland announced that 
the Tartan will run a publicity 
seminar before the committee 
heads on November 12. All Stu
dent Congress committee heads 
and organization heads should at
tend, if possible.
To Banbury Cross
Orval Faubus
W.L
Kappa Sigma40
Citcom40
Englishmen31
ATO B32
Beta Sigma Rho13
Obleisk13
ASCE14
Tau Delta Phi B04
Yankee League 
Theta Xi30
Tau Delta Phi A40
Sigma Nu A30
Delta Upsilon13
PiKA13
GSIA14
SAE B03
Brooklyn League
Met Grads40
ATC A41
Delta Tau Delta31
SAE A31
Phi Kappa22
Beta Theta Ui13
Sigma Nu B04
Queen Finalists Ready 
For Homecoming Reign
Suzanne Bradford, Janet Conrad and Lana Kubasak will 
reign at Techs 1958 Homecoming. One of these girls will rule 
as queen with the others in attendance. The queens name 
will be revealed at Carnegie Day, Friday.
Suzanne Bradford is from Moundsville, West Virginia. At 
Tech, she is majoring in home economicsclothing and tex
tiles. She has joined the YWCA and Home Economics Club 
on campus. In high school, Sue held such offices as vice-presi
dent of her sophomore class, vice-president of Student Coun
cil, and secretary of Y-Teens. Sue lives in Morewood Gardens.
Janet Conrad, a secretarial studies major, lives within 
walking distance of the Tech campus. Jan has joined the 
Newman Club for whish she is now playing volley ball.
Lana Kubasak is from Duquesne Pennsylvania. A com(Continued from Page 4) 
of his community, and with sound and fury overwhelmed 
good sense and good will.
At first it was difficult to believe that Mr. Faubus y}as 
actually evil and not just misguided. Now that we know 
that he almost singlehandedly (credit an able assist from 
the first tee) he created the Little Rock Situation and began 
the chain reaction of terror and shame across the south, that 
he campaigned openly and proudly on his defiance of the 
Federal Government, and that he boasts of discarding the 
Law of the Land if it interferes with his plans; we cannot 
but presume that he is at the least sick, sick, sick. ^
A Good Example
Certainly Mr. Faubus has made a mockery of our sys
tem and our mission in the world. Can we say to the new 
nations of Africa and Asia Follow us when we display 
such men as Mr. Faubus in the high offices of the land? Is 
this really better than that which the Soviets offer to these 
same people? It is indeed the duty of every citizen to in
sure the downfall of Mr. Faubus and what he represents.
We must prove once again that the states are, and of ri^t 
must be subservient to the Federal Government. As Carl 
Sandburg said recently,
The United States is, not are. The Civil War was fought 
over a verb. Orval Faubus dont know that, but he gonna 
know, he gonna know. ' Blenheim.
muter, she is now a piano major in the music department at 
Tech. In high school Lana graduated fourth in her class s-^d 
was a cheerleader for three years, editorial editor of the 
school newspaper, Y-Teen member, and in the cast of the 
senior play. In 1958, she held the position of Miss J. C. for 
Duquesne. Lanas future plans include four years at Tech 
and finally a career in entertainment, preferable on TV.
Friday afternoon at Carnegie Day one of these girls will 
be crowned by Dr. Warner and officially open the Homecom
ing Weekend.
Saturday afternoon at halftime she and her court will 
again be presented to the school. Hiding onto the field on spe
cial floats, the court will portray an original story about a 
The Kiltie band will complete the program.
^Jromecomin^ Cs^ueen ^Jinalits
Janet Conrad Su lie Bradford
Secretarial Home Economics
TM<* IS A 
HOHE AWA.N 
FROM HOME.'
frFid raFyNig 
if5 Nor
Jueiir
'The f
A4 f 

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 29, 1958CARNEGIE TARTA1STPage 7
\ oung Republicans 
Attend Eisenhower 
Rally At Mosque
Since the Carnegie Tech Young 
Republicans organized, adopted 
their constitution, elected officers, 
and received formal recognition 
from Student Congress, they have 
been participating in the current 
political campaign.
Last Wednesday, their president, 
John Berg, attended the meeting 
of the board of directors of the 
Allegheny County Young Repub
licans. At this meeting, plans were 
made for co-ordinating the Tech 
groups campaign activities with 
the efforts of the other county or
ganizations.
On election day, November 4, at 
least two cars will be used by the 
Tech YRs to help get out the vote. 
They also, have tentative plans to 
do baby-sitting and to distribute 
literature on election day.
Pins and literature supporting 
candidates Hugh Scott and Arthur 
McGonigle were distributed Fri
day afternoon in Skibo. Monday 
evening a delegation from the 
CIT YRs attended the Eisenhower 
rally held at the Syria Mosque.
Yesterday, in conjunction with 
the Young Democrats, a general 
mock election was held. Authentic 
ballots were furnished by the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh Citizenship 
Clearing House, a non-partisan
Pep Rally[continued from page 1] 
ably have had no idea a pep rally 
was in progress.
In the past there have been 
successful pep rallies. It is a shame 
that this yearin particular, this 
year's freshman classwill be re
membered for a lack of interest 
in school activities. There is a 
reason for this deplorable absence 
of enthusiasm. It is either a com
plete apathy toward the success 
or failure of the team, or a dislike 
for genuine fun. Neither of these 
I attitudes is typical of most Ameri: can college campuses. Why should 
| Tech be different? A pep rally can 
be an unbelievably entertaining 
event if there is a large enough 
crowd present with even a moder
ate amount of spirit.
Those students who have faith
fully participated in the past few 
rallies are to be commended. If 
their example were to be followed 
for future rallies, our team would 
retain its inspiration to win, and 
a 7-1 record would be assured.---------------------------------?---
organization aimed at promoting 
political activity on college cam
puses in western Pennsylvania.
Officers of the Young Repub
licans are John Berg, president; 
John Davidson, vice-presidenttreasurer; John McAfee, publicity 
chairman, and Tim McQuire; sec
retary.
Don H Be Left Out!
Order Your
1959
THISTLE
RememberPlan Ah
CJL
C^uiturui
C^ctiendtur
By Barb Jones
There are many activities in the 
Oakland area which I encourage 
you to attend. Perhaps I should 
first mention the special concert 
on Tuesday, November 4, at the 
Syria Mosque, featuring the pian
ist, Van Cliburn. Mr. Cliburn has 
recently won the Tshaikowsky in
ternational competition in Mos
cow. William Steinberg will con
duct the symphony orchestra. 
This concert is the first of several 
sponsored by the Pittsburgh Sym
phony Series in which they are 
featuring newly recognized art
ists.
Pittsburgh Symphony
The Pittsburgh Symphony has 
an excellent program for their 
Friday evening and Sunday mat
inees performance on October 31 
and November 2 at Syria Mosque. 
Luboshutz and Nemenoff, duopiano solosits, are the featured 
artists. William Steinberg will di
rect the symphonic concert which 
will include Sheriffs Festival 
Prelude, Bachs Concerto in c 
minor for two pianos, Brahms 
Serenade No. 2 in A Major, and 
Luboshutzs The Bat, a fantasy 
on themes from Johann Strauss 
^|Die Fledermaus.
Music Guild
The Music Guild of Pittsburgh is 
presenting Moura Lvmpany, a 
pianist, on Saturday, November
1, at the Carnegie Music Hall. Ser
ies subscribers for the Music 
Guild concerts receive over a 25% 
discount, so it would be profitable 
to contact the Music Guild Society 
for more information concerning 
season tickets.
On November 3, at 8:30 p.m., 
the YM & WHA has the first of 
its Italian-English Heritage An
cient Concerts directed by Homer 
Wickline. The music program will 
include that of Dowland, Tom
kins, Monteverdi, and Gabrieli. 
This is the first concert of four 
that will be held throughout the 
year with music from the Renais
sance and Baroque periods in 
celebration of the -Pittsburgh Bi
centennial. These ancient concerts 
^^re held in the Mural Room at 315 
South Bellefield Avenue.
Drama
The drama departments pro
duction, -1The Crucible, by Ar
thur Miller is running until Oc
tober 30. Be sure to et your tick
ets from the dean of Fine Arts 
secretary as soon as possible.
Look Back in Anger by John 
Osborne is playing at the Nixon 
heater for one week beginning 
onday, October 26, to Saturday, 
Novemher 1. Kenneth Haigh, the 
star of the London and Broadway 
productions, has the leading role 
in this show. This is another Nix
on subscription play in which the 
students of the Pittsburgh area 
may obtain tickets for a nominal 
price. These special student tick
ets may be acquired by picking up 
stubs in the Fine Arts office which 
he Nixon will accept along with 
our $1 in exchange for a ticket. 
Dont be concerned about the 
placement of these $1 seats, be
cause they are located on the main 
floor in the left and right sections.
No Time for Sergeants is 
playing at the Playhouse Craft 
Avenue Theater until November 
8, and Lost in the Stars is play
ing at the Hamlet Street Theater 
until November 22.
A Art
Lester O. Schwartzs oil show
ing is at the CIT, Hewlett Gallery 
in the Fine Arts Building and will 
remain there until November 7. 
Why not stop in sometime during 
the week?
The Water Color Societys group 
showing is being presented at the 
Arts and Crafts Center at 5th 
and Shady Avenues until No
vember 18.
+
wy
^i^es, thats right. Thanks to this amazing 
A-C Network Calculator, Pennsylvania 
Electric Association Engineers can actually 
plan power networks, complete with generat
ing stations, power lines, homes, and factories, 
for future development and know in advance 
what problems will be created and how to 
solve them.
* And, this almost "human electronic mar
vel is only one of a number of modern 
electronic devices that frequent the every day 
life of engineers engaged in todays fascinat
ing electric power industry.
As an engineer about to begin your career, 
you simply wont find a better field than the 
electric power industry ... particularly with
a Pennsylvania electric company. Nowhere 
else will you find newer advances in equip
ment or methodsnowhere else will you find 
a greater opportunity to help build Americas 
futureand nowhere else will you find a 
wider range of interests, one of which is sure 
to be the one youre looking for.
If you feel you can qualify to join an 
organization thats rapidly expanding; that 
offers a young man opportunities for advance
ment; that is extremely well known and 
respected, then talk to your placement coun
selor. Or, write to Pennsylvania Electric 
Association, State Street Building, Harris
burg, Pa., telling them where you would like 
to live and work.
21 INDEPENDENT COMPANIES PROVIDING POWER fOR PENNSYLVANIAS PROGRESS

---------------------------------------------------

Face 8CARNEOSE TARTANWednesday, Oetober t. USI
Newman House 
to Be Dedicated 
On November 5
During the week of November 2, 
Cardinal Newman Hall will be of
ficially dedicated. An open house 
is being held for the graduate 
members from Pitt and Tech, on 
Tuesday, November 4 at 8:00 p.m. 
There will also be an open house 
for the members, their families 
and friends on Friday, Novem
ber 7 from 8:00 to 12:00.
.The dedication ceremonies will 
be held at 4:00 on Wednesday, 
November 5; Bishop Dearden will 
officiate. Immediately after the 
dedication Father Tarrelit, na
tional chaplain for the NNCS, will 
deliver the convocation. Various 
members of the faculties of Pitt 
and Tech have been invited to 
this ceremony.
Meeting: Place
Prior to this year Techs New
man Club was without a meet
ing place, or recreational center, 
other than private homes, and 
classrooms. This year the club, 
along with those of Pitt and 
Chatham, has the use of Newman 
Hall. The Hall has full recrea
tional facilities, including hi-fi, 
television, pool, and ping-pong. 
There are also offices for the 
chaplains. Father Joseph Berkmver, and Father John Biller. The 
Newman Hall has a meeting room 
and a library for the use of its 
members.
The members of The Newman 
Club are encouraged to attend the 
dedication events to acquaint 
themselves with the facilities 
which are being offered them. 
Tech Newman Club members have 
use of all of these every Friday 
night.
Library
Cardinal Newman Hall is open
ed for the use of Tech Newman 
Club members every Friday 
night, and they may use the li
brary there at any time. Newman 
Hall is located at 125 N. Craig 
Street, directly adjacent to the 
Cathedral.
bership. The tryout assignment 
this year gives more latitude than 
ever before for indicating youi 
particular talent in writing or 
art, fashion or advertising, promo
tion or merchandising, or pub
licity.
Successful candidates will be 
notified of acceptance on the col
lege board during Christmas va
cation; the first College board as
signments will appear in Mad
emoiselles January issue.
For further information see your
Newman Hall Open 
After Sat. Dance
The Carnegie Tech Newman 
Club has announced that the new 
Cardinal Newman hall will be 
open after Saturdays homecoming 
dance to all CIT Catholics.
dean of women or the August, 
September, October or November 
issue of Mademoiselle.
Cardinal Newman Hall
Newly Decorated home /or Pittsburghs Newman Club MembersTHINKUSH
English: UNSUCCESSFUL MUSICAL
Englisb: INSTINCT INSECT
Mademoiselle College Contest
Mademoiselle is now accepting 
applications from undergraduate 
women for membership in its 
1958-59 college board.
The magazines college board 
contest offers a chance for the 
freshman as well as the senior at 
winning one of the twenty guest 
editorshipsa month on the staff 
of Mademoiselle. Those who are 
accepted on the college board do 
two assignments during the col
lege year.
Assignments give college board 
members a chance to write fea
tures about life on their cam
pus, to submit art work and 
fashion as well as feature, fiction 
or promotion ideas for possible 
use in Mademoiselle; to develop 
their critical and creative talents; 
to discover their own abilities and 
job interests; to win cash prizes 
and possibly publication for out
standing work submitted during 
the contest.
New York Trip
The top twenty guest editors 
will be brought to New York next 
June to help write, edit and illus
trate the August College issue. 
They will be paid a regular sal
ary for their months work, plus 
round-trip transportation to New 
York City.
While in New York each guest 
editor takes part in a full calen- j 
dar of activities. She interviews j 
a celebrity in her chosen field, 
takes in the theatre, parties, fash- j 
ion shows, manufacturing houses, 
stores and advertising agencies, 
besides working daily with thej 
Mademoiselle editor to whom .she j 
is assigned. The twenty guest ed- j 
Itors get help in finding positions ; 
in their special fields, and each 
year several join Mademoiselles
Thinklkh: PUU.EVARP
ROBERT WEINTRAUB. BOSTON Urfi<nk/ish;
Bl yeMr1jV
htLftuEnglish: CARNEEAGISCTS SUAO 
FFIG CUH LYA!HG GAYCU
Kull
POLICE
Thinklish translation: Shops above 
the Arctic Circle sell little more than 
ice skates, ice tongs and the worlds 
coldest icebox cookies. So the (ice) 
fields wide open for a cigarette store 
or cigloo. Up there, selling the hon
est taste of a Lucky Strike, youll be 
snowed under with orders! Other 
brands get a very cold reception.
mxBWTWW
Tf>mkfish
KOftU. VALPAKAIS,
Homm CUTTERSOHNm CUIGmpSUh
Just put two words together to form a new 
one. Thinklish is so easy youll think of dozens 
of new words in seconds! Well pay $25 each 
for the hundreds of Thinklish words judged 
bestand well feature many in our college 
ads. Send your Thinklish words (with trans
lations) to Lucky Strike, Box 67A, Mt. Vernon, 
N. Y. Enclose your name, address, college or 
university and class.
Get the genuine article ....... ............ 
Get the honest taste 
of a LUCKY STRIKEown staff.
Deadline
November 30 is the deadline for 
applying for college board mem<* r e.Product of 'j/nvvu&an iJo&iceo (oryiati^  cis our middle name

---------------------------------------------------

Wtnt***?. 4MAr t$, MMC-A1INMMR MWAK-Pnt 
Free Europe 
Committee Keeps 
Faint Hopes Alive
Free Europe Committee, a priv
ate non-profit organization found
ed in 1949, is dedicated to the 
pntual restoration of freedom in
the Soviet captive countries of 
East Europe.
The Committees chief means 
for keeping alive the hope of 
freedom among the 76 million peo
ples of Poland, Czechoslovakia, 
Hungary, Rumania and Bulgaria 
are the daily broadcasts of its 
Radio Free Europe division.
The Committee also publishes 
j^Jiodicals, pamphlets and special 
studies of East European affairs 
under the supervision of its Free 
Europe Press division, whose work 
is widely distributed in the free 
world to help stimulate awareness 
of the methods of Soviet tyranny 
over its Satellites.
A third division, Free Europe 
Exile Relations, works with na
tional and international East Eu
ropean exile organizations, such 
ijVthe Assembly of Captive Eu
ropean Nations, to conserve the 
traditionally free institutions of 
their countries and to encourage 
exiles to combat Communism 
throughout the free world.
From a small 7,500-watt mobile 
transmitter in West Germany, 
Radio Free Europes facilities have 
grown into a complex of 28 trans
mitters in West Germany and 
Portugal with a total power f 
rflPre than a million watts.
Radio Free Europe is on the air 
almost 20 hours a day in Poland, 
Czechoslovakia and Hungary, and 
six hours a day in Rumania and 
Bulgaria!. Its programs are prepar
ed by exile experts and broadcast 
in the native languages of each 
country (RFE does not broadcast 
in Russian). American specialists 
in radio techniques and in East 
Em-opean affairs supervise the 
t*r-all operation of Radio Free 
Europe.
News and news commentary are 
the chief staple of these broad
casts. Inasmuch as the Communist 
regimes press and radio are en
tirely under the control of the 
Communist Party, the greatest 
sustenance to the spirit of free
dom is the free flow of news via 
radio.
^jphe Communists have erected 
a network of jamming transmitters 
to interefere with reception oh the 
millions of radios capable of tun
ing in on RFE and other Western 
stations. But RFE does get 
through. Letters, surveys of re
fugees and visitors from behind 
the Iron Curtain give assurance 
that RFE is listened to and has 
the confidence of many millions. 
Furthermore, during the past four 
^rs almost 6,000 attacks on RFE 
regime publications and by 
regime radios testify to RFEs 
ability to get under the skin of the 
Communists.
In one of its most effective ser
ies of broadcasts to Poland RFE 
exposed the corruption and cruel
ty of the Secret Police. This re
sulted in the eventual reform of 
the Ministry of Security and sub
stantially reduced the terror in 
^and.
Support of Free Europe Com
mittee comes from the Crusade for 
Freedom, a fund-raising organiza
tion which has solicited Truth 
Dollars from the American people 
since 1950. '
Jeff Jordan 
At Pep Rally
Jeff Jordan, twenty-four yearold star of his own early morning 
variety show on KDKA-TV, will 
be on campus this Friday evening, 
October 31, to emcee the annual 
pledge cheer festivities and to 
get the pep rally under way  all 
in preparation for Techs 1958 
Homecoming weekend.
The torchlight parade will start 
at Morewood Gardens at 7:30 and 
proceed to the Tech Bowl along
Jett Jordan
Guest Emcee at Fridays Rally
Forbes Street and up Margaret 
Morrison Street.
Jeff, fast on his way to becoming 
a well-known television celebrity 
in this area, recently came to 
KDKA from radio WEEP, where 
he was a disc-jockey.
His youthful personality and ap
pealing sense of humor will pro
vide enjoyment for Techites and 
will, it is hoped, create enthusiasm 
for the homecoming game the next 
day.
The cup fo'r the pledge cheer 
competition will be awarded Sat
urday evening at the Homecoming 
dance. Last years pledge cheer 
winner was Sigma Nu.
New College 
Board Policy
As announced this summer by 
Frank H. Bowles, President of the 
College Entrance Examination 
Board, a change in the College 
Board policy which governs the 
reporting of scores received on 
the Scholastic Aptitude Test and 
Achievement - Tests will give 
schools and colleges complete dis
cretion in the release of score in
formation of their enrolled stu
dents beginning with the tests ad
ministered in December, 1958.
Previous long-standing regula
tions permitted the release of 
scores of preliminary (junior 
year) candidates but required that 
senior scores be kept confidential 
by the schools and colleges which 
received them. The scores were 
not reported to candidates by the 
Board.
In voting to make this change 
school and college members of the 
Board concluded a series of dis
cussions and committee actions 
which acknowledged on the one 
hand the desirability of dispelling 
the atmosphere of secrecy which 
has surrounded the test scores and 
on the other the difficulty of ex
Attention Social Chairmen
 ECH' SC'XDWK
Dons Reach for That Aspirin 
JUST CALL
JACK PURCELL
TUxedo 1-4885
Pittsburgh's Leading Orchestra Service
plaining to students the leaning 
of individual scores s'pi their re
lation to other criteria of admis
sion established by individual col
leges.
An important provision of the 
proposal, as presented by the Com
mittee on Examinations, and ap
proved by the Board, was appoint
ment of a sub-committee on the 
preparation of materials to assist 
schools in score interpretation and 
clerical processes.
Many Plans Considered
In steps leading over a period 
of several years to the decision to 
permit the release of score in
formation a number of committee 
and Board staff plans were con
sidered and rejected. These in
cluded the possibility of creating 
a second score scale for reporting 
test results directly to candidates 
in terms less precise than those 
afforded by the Boards standard 
scale, a range of 200 to 800 points 
which would have continued to be 
used by schools and colleges on a 
confidential basis.
After this and other methods 
had failed to win acceptance, the 
Board voted to approve an Execu
tive Committee recommendation 
which noted that the present 
score reporting system may no 
longer be defensible on technical, 
practical, or moral grounds, and 
provided for (1) study of the ex
isting scale with a view to pos
sible revision, (2) use of the scale 
finally adopted for reporting test 
results to both colleges and 
schools, (3) granting colleges and 
schools complete discretion in the 
release of score information to 
candidates, and (4) continuation 
of the present method of reporting 
scores in the meantime. The Board 
voted in favor of the above rec
ommendation in January 1957.
A majority vote of the Board 
at its fall meeting last year, fol
lowing a study of the scale and 
the decision of the Committee on 
Examinations to recommend that 
no revision in it be made, affirmed 
the provisions of the earlier ac
tion and specified that score in
formation may be released to en
rolled students at the discretion of 
their schools and colleges begin
ning with the tests taken in De
cember, 1958.
Mr. Bowles
In commenting on this proposal 
at the meeting before it was pre
sented to the members for action, 
Mr. Bowles, suggested that there 
was a relationship between the 
rowth in number of Board col
leges and candidates, the method 
of score reporting, and the devel
opment of college entrance as a 
matter of national concern.
Because of the extent of this 
concern, he said, the extension 
to the secondary schools of the 
[continued on page 10]
Don't Be Hexed!
BE SURE TO GET A
HARPO
Homecoming Button
25
From Any Betta Scull Member
-LENNY LITMAN PRESENTSJAZZ FOR MODERNS
The FOUR FRESHMEN
DAVE
BRUBECK
Quartet
MAYNARD FERGUSON ORCHESTRA 
SONNY ROLLINS TRIO
LEONARD FEATHER. M. C.
SYRIA MOSQUE-WED. NOV. 58:30 P.M.
Mail Orders Now. Show*, Inc., 818 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh 22. Pa. Send 
check or money order, enclosing self-addressed stamped envelope. Also on 
Mia at Gimbels and Horne's. Tickets: $3.?5, *3 50. $3.00, $2.50, $1.80 (tax inc.)
Arrow cotton 
Wash-and-Wears 
earn their way 
through college
Why spend date money sending 
shirts home? Just wash and dripdry these Arrow cotton wash-andwears and youre ready to go.
Only Arrow offers so wide a 
range: your favorite styles of col
lars and cuffs in oxford and broad
cloth, in white, solids and patterns.
And every shirt features ex
clusive Arrow Mitoga-tailoring. 
$4.00 up.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc,
^ARROW^-
first in fashion

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 19CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 29, 1958
-frScholarships For 
Graduate Study 
Abroad Amioiiiicecl
Competitions for more than 165 
scholarships for graduate study 
abroad will close November 1, it 
was announced by the Institute of 
International Education. The In
stitute is administering these 
awards for various foreign gov
ernments, universities and other 
private organizations.
The scholarships are being of
fered for the academic year 1959- 
60 for study in more than 14 for
eign countries. Financed by for
eign governments, universities, and 
private organizations, the awards 
offer free tuition and stipends of 
varying amounts for maintenance 
and study on the continents of 
Asia and Africa as well as in Aus
tria, Brazil, Cuba, Denmark, 
France, Germany, Iran, Israel, 
Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, 
Sweden, Switzerland, and the 
United Kingdom. Persons applying 
for Austrian, Danish, French, 
German, Italian, and Dutch awards 
may also apply for a travel grant 
under the Fulbright Act to supple
ment the scholarship.
Requirements
General eligibility requirements 
for the awards are U. S. citizen
ship, a Bachelors degree or its 
equivalent before departure, lan
guage ability sufficient to carry on 
the proposed study, and good 
health. A good academic record i 
and demonstrated capacity for 
independent study are also neces
sary. Preference is given to appli
cants under 35 years of age.
The grants are primarily de
signed to give U. S. students the 
opportunity to live and study in 
a foreign country and not to en
able U. S. students to obtain for
eign degrees.
Persons interested in these 
awards may write to the Institute 
of International Education for 
Foreign Study Grants, a bro
chure describing the scholarships j 
offered by foreign governments,! 
universities, and private organiza
tions. Students now enrolled in 
colleges or universities should 
consult their campus Fulbright 
advisor.
Requests for application forms  
must be postmarked before Octo
ber 15. Completed forms must be 
submitted by November 1.
PlayliouseOfficials 
Announce Plans 
For New Theater
Charles N. Fisher, president of 
the executive board, and Fred
erick Burleigh, producer, in a 
joint announcement stated that the 
Playhouse was entering an im
portant new phase of its develop
ment as a highlight of its 25th An
niversary Season.
The Playhouse executives an
nounced the opening of a third 
theater, tentatively planned for 
January and made possible by a 
grant from the A. W. Mellon Edu
cational and Charitable Trust.
The third theater will be housed 
on the second floor of the Play
house at Craft Ave. and Hamlet 
St. and will be known as the 
Studio Theater. It will have a 
limited capacity of 65 people; and 
in it, according to Mr. Burleigh, 
will be presented each year a 
number of fine new plays a n d I 
some classical revivals which the 
Playhouse believes would have a 
limited audience.
Purpose
Mr. Burleigh said, The purpose 
would be to develop a Studio 
Theater within the Playhouse 
which would match the work of 
the off-Broadway theaters in j 
New York. The off-Bradway j 
plays have influenced the developmetn of major new dramas and 
are having strong effect on critical 
tastes. For the benefit of the stu
dents, the faculty, the actors, aijd 
a growing audience of educated 
Pittsburghers, the hope is that a 
similar influence may be devel
oped in Pittsburgh through this 
effort.
President Fisher explained that 
this project was in. the nature of
Harpo Buttons
Harpo buttons are being sold 
today, October 29, through Fri
day, October 31, from 11:30 to 
1:30 in Skibo and also at frater
nity houses.
an experiment and that the grant 
of the Mellon Trust was in the 
amount of $100,000 payable over 
a three-year period to equip the 
theater and to support the opera
tion in its initial stages. Because 
of the limits of the audience im
posed both by the size of the 
theater and the experimental na
ture of the woi'k to be done, we 
doubt that this phase of the opeation ever will be fully self-sup
porting; but it is our belief that 
other operations of the Playhouse 
can provide the necessary annual 
'support once the project is esta
blished.
Discussion
The Studio Theater will be in
stalled in a former rehearsal room. 
An adjoining lounge will be used 
for discussion groups. Coffee will 
be served following the perform
ances and the audience will be en
couraged to enter into discussion 
with the actors and directors re
garding the performance they 
have just witnessed.
Mr. Burleigh also announced 
that the first play would be The 
Cave Dwellers by William Saro
yan. Other plays under considera
tion include The Rope Dancers, 
Garden District, and Waiting 
For Godot.
College Board
[continued from page 93 
same priviliege of discussing 
scores with their twelfth grade 
j students that they now enjoy with 
1 their eleventh grade students is 
both sensible and timely.
It is sensible because it rec
ognizes the pressures under 
which schools must now work in 
advising their studetns and helpI'ing them to fjnd placement in colj leges, and timely because col
leges cannot allow themselves to 
appear to be hiding their admis| sions operations behind a veil of 
! secrecy.
This action recommended will, 
I believe, eliminate an anomalous 
i situation and at the same time 
| go far to bring large numbers of 
j secondary schools into a closer 
counseling relationship with col
leges.
The College Board also an
nounced that the election of 21 
colleges increased the member
ship to 205 institutions. The re
quirements of institutional mem
bership include accreditation by 
appropriate regional educational 
associations and regular and sub
stantial use of the Boards tests 
i and other services.
Competition
[continued from page 4] 
ience, why is there so little sup; port of other campus and commuI nity projects, considered by some 
of greater worth? It has occurred 
| to many over the years that this 
j energy could be better directed 
to more worthwhile causes with 
more than equal benefits gained by 
the groups involved. Of course this 
redirection is up to the fraternities 
and sororities themselves . . .
(This editorial has been re
printed from the October 2, 1956 
issue of the Tartan.)
Carnegie Day
All organizations calling new 
members on Carnegie Day are 
asked to notify callees in ad
vance to insure their attendance 
at Carnegie Day.
FOR COMPLETE 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE. PAINT.
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923
Sigma Delta Phi* 
Goes National
From its inception in 1940, Sig
ma Delta Phi Fraternity has forg
ed steadily forward.
The time has now come when 
the fraternity, being sound finan
cially, physically and morally, feels 
that affiliation with a national or
ganization is in order. After an 
investigation into the many na
tional fraternities that would . be 
acceptable to Sigma Delta Phi, Tau 
Kappa Epsilon was unanimously 
agreed upon.
Founders
ed steadily forward. The time has 
now come when the fraternity, 
being sound financially, physically 
and morally, feels that affiliation 
with a national organization is in 
order. After an investigation into 
the many national fraternities that 
would be acceptable to Sigma Del
ta Phi, Tau Kappa Epsilon Was 
unanimously agreed upon.
The founders of Sigma Delta 
Phi were farsighted enoungh to 
realize that a some time in the 
future national affiliation would 
be necessary and wanted. They 
did not know when this vision
into the future would materialize, 
but to reveal to their successors 
their intentions, an article was 
placed into Sigma Delta Phis con
stitution which implicitly states: 
If and when it becomes advisa
ble for the local group at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology to ex
pand, either as a national organ
ization of its own, or through pe
tition 'and affiliation with another 
existing national fraternity, *4!he 
right and power is herewith ex
pressly given and implied for such 
action and the affiliation with an
other social college fraternity. 
National Recognition
This article in the constitution, 
as well as the constitution in its 
entirely, was given unreserved ap
proval by the administration and 
evening school council.
Tau Kappa Epsilon will provide 
the national prestige that Keh 
[continued on page 12]
A bell is to ring
but without the clapper, 
youd miss the whole idea of a bell
A cigarette is to smoke
but without flavor-you miss 
the whole idea of smoking
When it comes to flavor
It's what's up front that counts
Up front in Winston is
FILTER-BLEND
Thats why 
aIGSCAG CNSCHS sAAbe
like a cigarette should!
to

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, OeUber 29, 1968CAHNEOIE TARTANPage 11
f)isplays
[Continued from page 1 j 
for Tech. Sleping Beauty will 
prick herself with the needle on 
the spinning wheel and fall down. 
At this point the lights on this 
stage go out and the other is illu
minated.
The second scene is in Sleeping 
Beauty's beldroom where we see 
the Prince bending down to kiss 
Sleeping Beauty to awaken her 
from her spell. The Prince is the 
impersonation of the Tech foot
ball team. At the base of the castle 
steps there is a fountain which 
bears the following: Welcome
Alumni, to PiKA Land. PiKAs 
background music will be, appro
priately, Tchaikovskys Sleeping 
Beauty B. llet.
Beta Sigma Rho
The Rhyme of the Ancient 
Mariner has been rewritten by 
Beta Sigma Rho to fit in with their 
display based on this classic. Their 
display will consist of three 
scenes, and the total showing of 
their display takes about seven 
and one-half minutes, for they 
have taped the new time into a 
story and the scenes follow this 
story. In the first scene the An
cient Mariner is standing on his 
Tihip which is in the shape of a 
football.
He represents the Covies and is 
seen shooting an albatross which 
brought the news that Tech chal
lenged Geneva. After this scene 
the lights fall on scene 2, which is
Evening School 
iVewman Club
The Evening School Newman 
Club is sponsoring an open house 
on Sunday evening, November 2, 
at Cardinal Newman Hall. The 
speaker for the evening will be 
Father Nene whose topic will be 
"Rhythm In Our Nursery 
Rhymes. Everyone is welcome. 
Do come and hear Fathers talk 
and see the beautiful Cardinal 
ifewman Hall. Remember Sunday, 
November 2, 7:30 p.m., Cardinal 
Newman Hall, 125 North Craig 
Street.
a rowboat, and in it are two diceth rowers. They represent Tech 
alumni. On the dice the words 
Tech and Geneva appear alter
nately on the six faces of each 
die, and the thrown dice show 
Tech as the winner of the football 
game. The lights on this scene 
dim and again the ship of the first 
scene is illuminated, but in this 
scene the main characters are two j 
Tech football players holding the i 
ship back from beating Carnegie. 
The music that the Beta Sigs are 
using is from the picture The 
Vikings.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Sigma Alpha Epsilon chose the 
witch scene from Macbeth as the 
basis of their display. On the wall 
of their patio, which is represen
tative of a cliff, there is a huge 
cauldron in which the three 
witches are cooking up trouble 
for Geneva. They represent Car
negie Tech and its plans for a( 
football victory. On their lawn 
will be a Geneva football player, 
who will get the results of therr 
brew. The SAEs say there will be 
complete sound and visual ef
fects.
Aljjha Tau Omegas theme for 
homecoming is Jack, the Giant 
Killer, and all they have to say 
about their display is that It will 
not be a 300 foot tower.
The Sigma Nus have picked Joe 
Bftslkas the theme for their dis
play and all they have to say about 
their display is that We arent 
going to build a 300 foot tower, 
either.
Delta Upsilon
Snow White and the Seven 
Dwarfs was picked by Delta Up
silon as their theme for Homecom
ing. Their display will consist of 
two scenes. In' the first they will 
have a huge pot in which there 
will be the witch who cursed Snow 
White, and the witch depicts 
Geneva. Around the pot will be 
the seven dwarfs, representing 
Tech, who will be attacking her.
In the second scene will be Snow 
White, who also represents Tech, 
and the Prince, who represents the 
old alumni. Delta Upsilon has 
also procured some live trees to 
better simulate a live forest. The 
DUs have said that there will be 
sound and visual effects as well as 
animation in their display.
The Flying Dutchman i& the I 
theme of Beta Theta Pi. The dis
play will consist of a series of! 
cliffs and> in a recess in them will 1 
be the Flying Dutchmans ship. 
The Flying Dutchmans ship will j 
rock back and forth and the waves j 
around it will oscillate. The Fly- | 
ing Dutchman, his lover, and her j 
rejected lover will be on the cliffs. | 
The Flying Dutchman represents 
Tech, his lover represents victory, 
and her rejected lover receives the 
ignomity of being a representative 
of the Covies.
Kappa Sigma 
Kappa Sigma has chosen the 
Pied Piper of Hamlin as their 
theme, but they have changed the 
title to the Pied Piper of Tech. As 
you may have guessed, the Pied 
Piper is Tech and the rats are the 
Geneva Covies. The Kappa Sigs 
pay that they will have sound ef
fects.
Assembly--
[continued from page 1] 
faculty in 1949 where he has re
mained except for one year out 
to serve as educational consultant 
to the Norwegian government. He 
has published several articles, 
many devoted to studies of chil
dren in relation to toys, and oth
ers to effects of adernalectomy and 
shock on anxiety motivated be
havior.
This lecture will be based large
ly on Mr. Moyer's present re
search. It will be given in the 
Fine Arts Theater, Tuesday, No
vember 4 at 11:30.
Rhodes Scholars 
Get $450 Increase 
For Oxford Study
Dr. Courtney Smith, President 
of Swarthmore College and Amer
ican Secretary of the Rhodes 
Scholarships, has announced that 
Rhodes Scholarships to Oxford 
University have been increased in 
annual value.
Henceforth L750 ($2100) will be 
paid annually to Rhodes Scholars 
in residence at Oxford. President 
Smith indicated that, considering 
the purchase power of the British
pound, this increase of LI 50 
($420) makes the scholarships suf
ficient for all necessary term-time 
and vacation expenses.
The announcement of the in
creased stipend comes as Institu
tional Representatives in the col
leges and universities and State 
Secretaries of the Rhodos Scholar
ships are preparing to receive ap
plications for the 1958 awards. j 
Rhodes Scholars
Each year the United States 
sends thirty-two Rhodes Scholars 
to Oxford University, the Scholars 
having been chosen from hun-1 
dreds of applicants endorsed by) 
colleges and universities all over  
the country. Recipients of the 
scholarships are announced in De
cember after selection by state i 
and district committees which are 
composed of former Rhodes Schol- j 
ars under the chairmanship of 
prominent citizens who are not 
Rhodes Scholars.
Rhodes Scholarships are granted 
in the first instance for two years 
residence at Oxford, with the pos
sibility of a third year if it is to 
the Scholars interest and if his 
first two years have been satis
factory.
Applicants must be of the age 
eighteen to twenty-four on the 
first of October of the year in 
which they apply, but time spent 
in military service after June 27, 
1950, may be taken into consideri ation.
Qualifications
Rhodes Scholarships were es
tablished in 1903 in the will of 
Cecil Rhodes, famed developer of 
South Africa. In his will Rhodes 
stated precisely that the sort of 
Scholars he wished sent to Ox
ford should not be merely book
worms.
Qualities of manhood, truthful
ness, courage, devotion to duty, 
sympathy, kindliness, unselfish
ness, and fellowship must be 
joined with an exhibition of moral 
force of character and with physi
cal vigor as shown by fondness 
for and success in sports.
Rhodes wished the Scholar to 
have instincts to lead and to take 
an interest in his schoolmates, for 
those latter attributes will be 
likely in afterlife to guide him to 
esteem the performance of public
duties as his highest aim.
He stated emphatically that no 
student shall be qualified or dis
qualified for election to a Schol
arship on account of his race or 
religious opinions.
Applications 
Applications for the 1958 com
petition must be submitted to 
State Secretaries no later than No
vember 5, 1958. Information con
cerning application can be ob
tained in the Office of the Direc
tor of Student Personnel and Wel
fare in AH.
State Committees of selection 
will meet on December 17, naming 
two representatives from each 
state to meet the District Commit
tees on December 20.
For purposes of Rhodes selec
tion the United States is divided 
into eight districts, each of which 
names four Scholars. Rhodes 
Scholars elected in December of
1958 will take up residence at 
Oxford in October, 1959.
Enter The
TARTAN
C
o
c

O2)
71
J 
 
S
D
NOW!
\Do You Think for Yourself ? (jssssgssf!)
Do you believe you could fool a liedetector machine if you put 
your mind to it?
Do you believe society should adopt' 
hew ideas at the expense of 
old traditions?.
Are you completely at ease when, 
people watch you at work?
Do you judge your parents as 
you do other people?, >
YES
VES
?noD
YES
Do your emotions ever lead you to do 
something that seems unreasonable, 
even to yourself?
Do you try to plan ahead rather than 
make snap judgment decisions?
If your roommate suddenly inherited a 
million dollars, are you sure your 
relationship would remain the same?
Can you honestly say you pay more 
attention to political issues than to 
the personalities of the candidates?
YES? noD
YES
YES ? NO?
YES
Knows...
%
The Man Who Thinks for Himself
ONLY VICEROY HAS A 
THINKING MANS FILTER..
A SMOKING MANS TASTE!
One more question: Do you think about the filter 
cigarette you choose or just smoke any brand?
If youre the kind of person who thinks for himself 
i... you use judgment in your choice of 
cigarettes, as in everything else.
Men and women who think for themselves usually 
smoke VICEROY. Their reasons? Best in the world.
They know the difference between fact and fancy.
They know that only VICEROY has a 
thinking man's filter ayid a smoking man's tastes
*IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED YES TO 6 OF THESE 
QUESTIONS, YOU ARE A PERSON WHO THINKS FOR HIMSELF I,
Rnul" 4 a i,,"idy" Eunf#
Familiar 
pack or 
crush-; 
proof
box..
#

---------------------------------------------------

ret I*CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October Z9. 195*
ft**
R u fus A nswers
to break away from the ultra 
formal sort of document writing 
that is so common on this campus 
(even in arguments between 
canines).
And last, I feel that students 
here at Tech possess enough in
telligence to be able to see 
through my sarcasm to the points 
I am trying to make. However, Mr. 
Freudenreichs letter makes me 
begin to doubt seriously the val
idity of my last reason.
Rufus B. Darby
Playboy Publisher 
Writes Book On
"College Years
Browserslost, beat, silent, or 
unclassifiablesingers of Gaudeamus Igitur, and all who have at 
one time or another frozen to 
death in a football stadium or doz
ed guiltily in nine oclock class 
will be pleasantly shocked when 
they recognize themselves, profes
sors, and fellow-classmates in the 
pages of The College Years, 
which Hawthorn Books will pub
lish on October 17.
Although nostalgia is the word
that best describes this handsoihe 
512-page collection of prose, poe
try, drawings and photographs, 
anthologist A.C. Spectorsky, as
sociate publisher of Playboy Mag
azine, author of The Exurban* 
ites and editor of The Book of 
the Sea, The Book of the Earth, 
The Book of the Sky and The 
Book of the Mountains, has ch^v 
en selections that capture college 
life in many different moods 
through six different centuries.
Student Riot 
Students riot at 14th Century 
Oxford; the freshman advisor 
struggles with the eternal fresh
man; Shelley is expelled; the G.I.s 
return to college; Dink Stover, 
five-foot-ten, in perfect condi
tion, becomes the hero of the 
Yale freshmen; the coed rolls fc&c 
stockings to the knee and is pur
sued along the brick walls of the 
American campus. Benjamin 
Franklin contemplates the educa
tion of Pennsylvania youth; 
Stephen Leacock wonders whether 
education is getting too long; Rob
ert Louis Stevenson apologizes for 
idlers; and Eugene Gant discov
ers Homer. Here, then, are the 
college years with all the ex
citement, humor, injustice, won
der and loneliness that somehfe 
constitute an education.
Readers Write
Editor, the Tartan:
It would appear that certain 
old timer (class of 61) does not 
particularly approve of the way I 
write. I must admit that I agree 
with most of his statements.
It is true that my opinions are 
usually not those of the Tartan. 
If they were, why should I write? 
I do not agree that an eight page 
paper needs a directory, I do not 
agree that our campus apathy is 
the fault of our student leaders. 
I do not agree that lunik should 
have the word cartoon associated 
with it, I do not agree that 12:30s 
are a divine gift to CIT. In short, 
I am a right disagreeable sort.
It is also true that the gym 
dept., in reply to my letters last 
semester, did explain that a bask
etball bounces when it is dropped. 
But it is also true that they told 
us how the game originated, ex
plained some of the rules and 
also it is interesting to note that 
boys interested in weightlifting 
may now do so while the rest of 
the class goes outside, which was 
not to my knowledge permitted 
last year. As for my incorrect 
facts, the gym department inform
ed me of one and I quickly with
drew it in the next issue.
It is true that I do not live in 
Moorewood Gardens, but I do date 
there on occassion. hence the new 
rule affects me.
As for my mode of expression 
yes it is true that I use sarcasm 
and exaggeration. Whether or not 
this is effective I will leave to you 
and Paul PB Farrpll Jr. to argue 
about.
However, 61 himself states 
that it has effects. Perhaps it 
would ease his mind if I explained 
why I write as I do. First, I en
joy it. I may be warped but I en
joy sarcasm. Second, I am trying
Students! 10% Discount
SHIRTS - DRY CLEANING
BEAUTIFULLY FINISHED
HOUR4615 Centre Ave,MU 3-6466
Owned and Operated by Stan FriedmanCollege 50
10% DISCOUNT WITH STUDENT ID CARD
THEY SAID IT COULDNT BE DONE - BUT TODAYS L&M GIVES YOU
Four field goals in one game 
by a man whod never kicked 
one before! Bobby Conrad 
himself said, "I never kicked 
a field goal in high school or 
college. In fact, I never even 
tried. But the amazing Texas 
A&M back broke two All Star 
records by booting four threepointers, including one for 44 
yards, as the 1958 college 
stars upset the Detroit Lions, 
35 to 19. Conrad is now a 
Chicago Cardinal.
DON'T SETTLE FOR ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER!
Change to LiM and get em both. Such an improved filter and more taste! Better 
taste than in any other cigarette. Yes, todays CM combines these two essentials 
of modern smoking enjoyment-less tars and more taste-in one great cigarette.
/f, jp b"-teh8Illy u
Light into that Live Modern flavor!
