TJB_ XmCARNEGIE
VOL. 44No. 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYWEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950
Area Reserved 
For Students 
At Grid Gaines
Council Will Unify 
CIT Cheering Section 
Near Fifty-Yard Line
In a determined effort to obtain 
a more unified cheering section at 
home football games, Student 
Council last Wednesday took ac
tion to reserve a portion of Forbes 
Field to be occupied by Carnegie 
students only.
Section six and the halves of 
sections five and seven adjacent to 
section six will be held for the use 
of CIT students. These sections in
clude both the first and second 
tiers in the local baseball park.
Council has requested that all 
students cooperate in the new 
seating arrangement and thus give 
the Tartan footballers a cheering 
section that can be heard on the 
playing field.
The reserved sections provide a 
seating capacity of approximately 
2500. According to Director of In
tercollegiate Athletics, Clarence 
Overend, student activities cards 
are valid only for these three sec
tions.
Although this ruling has not 
been enforced, authorities threaten 
to enforce it if necessary. Since 
section six is situated opposite the 
fifty-yard line, certainly the best 
seats available, it is doubtful that 
enforcement will be necessary.
In order to facilitate easy recog
nition of the student sections, 
bright-colored crepe paper will 
mark the area.
Election Notice
Nomination petitions for 
freshman class officers are 
now available in the Dean of 
Students office, IH 144. 
Petitions must be returned to 
the Dean of Students office no 
later than noon Friday, Oct.
The election will be held 
Tuesday, Oct. 17.
Petitions for the office of 
president, secretary, and 
treasurer must contain 30 
freshman signatures, 10 from 
each college.
Three vice-presidents will 
be elected. One each from En
gineering and Science, Mar
garet Morrison, and Fine Arts. 
These petitions must contain 
15 signatures.
Freshmen can sign only one 
petition for each office to be 
filled.
All full-time freshmen are 
eligible.
Allan J. Moore 
Student Council 
Election Chairman
Construction Continuing 
With Morewood Addition
New NE Building
Recent Addition To Engineering Hall
Fall Sorority Rushing 
Features Parties, Teas
Fall sorority rushing formally opened Sept. 23 and 24 with 
Panhellenic open house. All interested upper class women, exclusive 
f this semester transfer students, attended the open houses, but only 
those with a factor of at least 1.8 may be invited to the teas and 
parties. <
Membership selection will be 
confined to.one party and one tea 
for each sorority. Attendance at 
these affairs will be by invitation 
only.
Tea Schedule 
The schedule for the teas is as 
follows: Sigma Kappa, Sept. 28,
5:00-7:00, Carnegie Union; Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, Sept. 28, 7:00- 
9:00, private home; Kappa Alpha 
Theta, Oct. 1, 5:30-7:30, private 
home; Delta Delta Delta, Oct. 1,
1:00-3:00, Carnegie Uniwn; Chi 
Omega, Oct. 1, 3:00-5:00, Carnegie 
Union; Delta Gamma, Oct. 2, 5:00- 
7:00, Carnegie Union; Alpha Ep
silon Phi, Oct. 7, 2:00-4:00, Car
negie Union.
Party Schedule 
The parties are scheduled as 
follows: Alpha Epsilon Phi, Sept.
29, 8:00-12:00, private home;
Delta Delta Delta, Oct. 6, 8:00- 
12:00, PiKA house; Delta Gamma,
Oct. 7, 8:00-12:00, PiKA house;
Kappa Alpha Theta, Oct. 8, 6:00- 
10:00, private home; Kappa Kappa 
Gamma, Oct. 13, 8:00-12:00, DU 
house; Sigma Kappa, Oct. 14, 8:00- 
12:00, DU house; Chi Omega, Oct.
15, 6:00-10:00, South Park Com
munity House.
There is to be no social contact 
between sorority members and 
rushees between the hours of 
7:00 p. m. and 7:00 a. m. during 
the formal rushing period.
Dining Room Open Luncheon dates, however, are permitted both in Skibo and Morewood Gardens this year.Both commuter and dorm sorority
women and rushees are invited to 
the womens dorm.
Silent period starts 
Oct. 15 at 10:00 p. m. and lasts 
until 5:00 p. m. Tuesday, Oct. 17, 
when bids will be received by 
rushees.
Rushing is to be based on the 
honor system for both sorority 
and rushee. Any sorority violat
ing any of the rules set up by 
Panhellenic Council will be sub
ject to penalty at the discretion 
of the Council.
Homecoming Plans Announced 
By ODK and Mortar Board
Carnegie Day, Inauguration Set For Friday; 
Students May Attend Alumni-sponsored Dance
Plans for student participation in Carnegies Homecoming week
end have been announced by ODK and Mortar Board. These plans 
were made in addition to those for Dr. Warners inauguration and 
the fiftieth anniversary celebration.
----------------------------------------------------? Carnegie Day will take place
Friday afternoon following the 
mornings inaugural ceremony. 
Featured also in Fridays program 
is the freshman-sopho'more-junior 
competition. The addition of the 
juniors to the competition is some
thing new this year. A pep rally 
on the cut will close the days 
activities.
Chairmen Chosen 
Aside from the above activities, 
ODK and Mortar Board will also 
be in charge of the fraternity decSunday, orations and the freshmen queen 
elections respectively.
Chairmen of the various com
mittees have been chosen as fol
lows: Stanley R. March, inaugura
tion and anniversary committee; 
H. K. Kirk-P*trick, academic pro
cession; Carl C. Monrad, dedication 
of new addition to Engineering 
Hall; William H. E. Johnson, del
egates luncheon; Webster N. Jones, 
departmental open house; Law
rence Carra, drama production; 
Clarence Overend, football game 
activities; Harold L. Lang, inves
titure proceedings; Melvin J. 
Voigt, invitations; Charles A. H. 
Pearson, music; John E. Pekruhn, 
staging and decorations; Norman 
H. Dawes, transportation and hous
ing. The alumni committees are 
to be selected for the fiftieth an
niversary luncheon and fiftieth an
niversary ball.
Dinner Dance 
Tickets for the alumni-sponsored 
dinner dance on Saturday night, 
October 28, will be sold at $15. 
If they so desire, students may 
obtain tickets for the dance only, 
specially priced for them at $2.00.
During the triple-feature week
end Carnegie will be host to 430 
guests. Of these, 225 will be from 
colleges and universities; 48 from 
professional and learned societies, 
general associations, and honor I 
fraternities; 40 from public trusts, j 
foundations and institutes; 96 from j 
industries, business and labor or- ! 
ganizations; and 21 from govern- ' 
ment, civic organizations and sec- ! ondary schools.
Draft?
Notice to faculty and stu
dents who may be subject to 
call to military service under 
selective service or from en
listed and officers reserves and 
the National Guard:
The Office of X>ean Webster 
N. Jones, College of Engineer
ing and Science, has been des
ignated to handle all cases in
volving military service for 
both faculty and students. 
Members of the faculty or stu
dents who receive notice of 
classification, orders to report 
for physical examination, or 
orders to report for active duty 
should consult Dean Jones 
Office as soon as they receive 
such notification.
J. C. Warner, President
C-Book Notice
Students who have changed 
theii Pittsburgh address since 
the time they filled out their 
registration permit should 
contact the registrar before 
the 29 of this month to assure 
their correct address getting 
into the student directory (CBook). They will be asked to 
fill out a form, recording any 
change of address. This form 
will be forwarded to the Pub
lic Relations Office where the 
burden of the work of pub
lishing the C-Book is carried.
All too often someone has a 
gripe about his address in the 
C-Book being incorrect; heres 
your chance to see that it 
doesnt happen to you. The 
deadline is noon Friday, 
Sept. 29.
C Club Dance 
To Be Held 
On Saturday
The first all school dance of the 
year will be held in the gymna
sium from 9:00 to 1:00, Saturday 
night, September 30. Sponsored by 
the Varsity C Club, the affair fol
lows the Davis-Elkins game, CITs 
first of the season. Music will be 
provided by Brad Hunt and his or
chestra.
Robert Dougherty, president of 
Varsity C Club, is chairman of 
the dance. Other committee heads 
include Dick Barr, decorations; 
Quent Holtz, tickets; and A1 
Macy, publicity.
Tickets are $2.00 per couple, tax 
included, and will go on sale to
morrow, September 27, in Skibo 
and at the door on Saturday night.
The C Clubs dance last year 
was one of the few financially suc
cessful social affairs on campus.
Carnegies expanded construc
tion program hit a high point as 
the first classes were held re
cently in the million dollar addi
tion to Engineering Hall. The new 
wing and extensive renovations 
now completed at Morewood Gardents show another phase of the 
same ambitious plan.
The new cut parking lot now 
under construction, and the pro
posed industrial administration 
building are two of the other large 
scale projects designed to expand 
the schools academic and social 
facilities.
Unit Op Lab
Housing sections of the chemis
try and chemical engineering de
partments, the new section of En
gineering Hall includes four class
rooms, a lecture room, several of
fices, plus undergrad and gradu
ate laboratories. Of special import
ance is the new unit operations lab 
to be used by chemical engineering 
students.
Though classes were held in the 
new building (officially known as 
NE) on the first day of the se
mester, the offices were not occu
pied until last Saturday. Some fin
ishing and incidental work will go 
on into October, with several of 
the labs still to be comp1-ited and 
equipped.
Modern, Functional 
Completion of the new wing and 
renovations at Morewood Gardens 
mark the fjrst time Carnegie has 
been able to feed and house all of 
its resident women students under 
one roof. The addition embodies 
both the gothic spirit of the main 
building, while including advan
tages of a modern, functional 
building.
Extending from the main build
ing, the new wing has two floors. 
The first, below sidewalk level, in
cludes a large and small dining 
room (and a third private one), a 
careteria counter, and the kitchen. 
Second floor facilities include 
lounge rooms, library room. Dorm 
Council meeting room, reception 
desk, cloakroom, post office, pow
der room, mens room, and record 
room. The new wing and additions 
to the main dormitory provide 
dining space for five hundred, and 
nine lounge areas.
Million Dollar Cost 
Carnegie has now spent a total 
of approximately $1,800,000 on 
[Continued on page SI
Scot
All students interested in 
working on the Scot, the CIT 
variety magazine, please at
tend the re-organization meet
ing in the Black Cat (down
stairs Thistle Hall) at 4:30 
p.m. Wednesday, Sept. 27. 
Both new applicants and for
mer staff members are urged 
to attend. There are openings 
in all departments including 
features, production, sports, 
typing, photography, art. and 
layout.
Bus Service 
Set For Game
Delta Skull Arranges 
Student Bus Trips
Tartan rooters are in for a 
special treat this year. Delta Skull 
is arranging for transportation for 
Carnegie students to the away 
football games.
The first trip will be Meadville 
on Oct. 21, when the Skibos^will 
encounter Allegheny in a home
coming attraction.
Chartered buses will leave the 
CIT campus at 10:30 a.m. and re
turn to Pittsburgh immediately 
after the game. The fare will be 
approximately $2.50 per person.
The second excursion will be to
New Wilmington on Nov. 18. 1 
game with Westminster will be 
last of the year for the Tarti 
The time of departure and fa 
for this trip will be announcec 
a later edition of the Tartan.
Fraternities and other cam 
organizations are invited to ch 
ter buses for these trips. Reser 
tions must be made in advance 
! contacting Ed Mitchell at SC. 
9888.
his
theins.res

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2A4NWEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950
Editorials
Time For A (Change
Now that the mad period known as 
'rushing is completed, it seems a logical time 
for Carnegie fraternities to size up the situ
ation once again and see if there isnt any 
better system than has been used during the 
past several years.
The past week has impressed many people 
as not only being unsatisfactory for freshmen, 
but also for fraternity men. For the fresh
men, it is unfair to their sincere attempt to 
adjust to college life when fraternities swoop 
down on them without much of any warning. 
Too, the freshmen now enrolling at Carnegie 
Tech are younger and more inmtaure than 
those of previous years; the result being a 
feeling of insecurity among the majority of 
freshmen who find themselves sought after in a 
manner they find difficult to comprehend at 
first.
The fraternity men, on the other hand, 
also find themselves hard pressed during the 
hectic week. The competition among frater
nities seems to be forcing more intensified 
rushing programs each year. If it is just 
a case of the Jones keeping up with the 
Smiths, then we feel that most fraternities 
would welcome any change that would brin' 
relief from the type of program new in ex
istence.
Delayed rushing in some form may be the 
answer to the problem. Probably not the de
ferred pledging program that was presented 
to the Council of Fraternity Presidents last 
fall, but a modified version with the changes 
made where most strenuous objections were 
made by the collective fraternities.
Last fall, it appeared that the fraternities 
were resisting the idea of the change itself 
more than they were resisting the basic 
fundamentals incorporated in the plan. 
There was concern about the change-over 
period, when some houses might experi
ence financial losses due to the absence of a 
regular pledge class in the first semester. 
If all of the fraternities could forget their 
very transient nature for a while, and think 
of the over-all benefits of an improved rush
ing program, the financial losses of one sem
ester could be amortized over the preceding 
and succeeding semesters to the change.
Now that the incoming freshmen classes 
have settled down in both size and age from 
the post-war period, it would seem that fra
ternities should want to adjust their ways to 
keep in step with the changing conditions.
HE REALLY PRESENTS A PROBLEM
Happv Birthday!
This seems to be the year for anniver
saries!
What with Carnegie Tech celebrating its 
50th birthday this fall, another anniversary 
is apt to pass by unnoticed. Carnegie Techs 
Y.M.C.A. celebrates its 30th year of serv
ice to students this month.
Originally founded as a religious organi
zation, the Y has developed and promoted 
additional activities on Carnegie's campus, 
making it an invaluable service group to all 
students.
Leading the Carnegie Y into its 30th 
year, as he led it in its first year, will be 
Rollin V. Davis. Mr. Davis, whose office is 
located on the first floor of the Carnegie 
Union, has probably had more contacts with 
Carnegie Tech men than any other person 
on campus.
The Tartan wishes to extend anniversary 
greetings to Mr. Davis and the Y. sincere con
gratulations for their fine work in the past, 
and best wishes for another 30 years of sucruessful assistance to Carnegie Tech students.
Letters To The Editor
What Happened 
To Skibo Plan?
Editor, the Tartan:
In the spring of last year there was much talk 
around campus about Wes Kenneys plan for the 
redeeoration and remodeling of Skibo. As far as 
I can see the project seems to have died on the 
vine and I for one would like to know whether 
or not the school authorities intend to do anything 
further with the plan.
It may be that I am merely ill-informed and 
that financial or other considerations prevent any 
action at this time, but I for one would like to 
see at least an attempt made to give this project 
a place on the renovation, scnedule here at Tech.
As I remember, the plans called for addition 
of false rafters to deaden the noise at mealtimes, 
changes in the lighting system, canned music, 
floor coverings, etc.in short, improvements which 
would dispel some of the hanger-like atmosphere 
of our cafeteria.
Other campuses around the country are fam
ous for their comfortable student lounges and 
cafeterias. While I agree that it is better for the 
schocl to be noted for the quality of its educational 
program than for the elegance of its Student eat
ing facilities, I believe that the continued use of 
a converted airplane hanger as a noisy, uncom
fortable, and ill-lighted cafeterias does not speak 
highly of the school administration and its poli
ciesunless, of course, the school officials plan 
some action in the near future. I realize that 
with the heavy construction program now in pro
gress there may be more pressing projects than 
Skibo, but I sincerely hope tha^ Wes Kenneys 
plan, or some modification of it, can be put into 
effect as soon as possible.
Interested Student.
TA*WA i\
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh. Pa. 
TELEPHONE: SC. 1-4557. after hours; news, MU. 1-7017, MU. 
1-6312. business, EM. 1-6597. SC. 1-8851. Published weekly 
during the school year, except holidays and examination 
eriods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh. Pa.
Editor-in-chief .................................................... Paul V. Offermann
Business Manager ..................................................... Morton Baker
Managing fcditor .............................................................. Lloyd Dyer
Personnel Manager ......................................................... Ray Mangold
Entered as cond class matter on Oct. 4, 1907, at the
Post Office at Pittsburgh. Pa., under the Act of March 3,
1379. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage pro' iried for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Oe21, 1918
Parking Plans 
Seem Stalled
Editor, the Tartan:
As an interested member of the student body, 
I would like to ask two questions of the school:
(1) Why are students not being given a bigger 
part in Homecoming this year? Perhaps it is just 
that the Tartan has over-emphasized the alumni 
part of the celebration, and the students will ac
tually have as big a part in the festivities as 
previously, but from what I have read and heard 
to date it seems we are being almost totally ig
nored. If I'm wrong about this, as I hope I am, 
I would appreciate some information.
(2) What has happened to construction of the 
parkifig lot on the cut? The first two or three days 
after I was back in Pittsburgh there seemed to 
be activity of a sort, but recently I havent seen 
a workman near the place. What are they planning 
to douse those piles of gravel as an obstacle 
course for the ROTC students? I understand that 
when they break ground for the new IA building 
the parking lot behind Skibo will be unavailable. 
Where are the cars going to go?A Poor Physicist.
Drama School 
Opens Season
Carnegies Drama Department 
will open its season with the pre
sentation of Liliom. A fantasy 
written by Ferenc Molnar, Lili
om will run from October 19 
through October 28.
The main character of the play 
is Liliom, a shiftless young neerdo-well and bully of Budapest. 
Liliom works part time as a barker 
for a merry-go-round and cap
tures many a young servant girls 
heart with his charms. One of 
these girls is Julie who later be
comes his wife.
Learning he is going to be a 
father, Liliom helps in a highway 
robbery in order to raise some 
money. However, he is caught in 
the act and stabs himself rather 
than submit to arrest.
He is tried in the magistrates 
court on high, but they see 
through him. They know how he 
came to beat the girl whom he 
married down below, how he 
planned the robbery, and how he 
killed himself. They know he is 
repentant although he is too 
cocky to admit it.
He is sentenced to years in the 
purifying fires of the penitential 
plains with the promise that he 
can return to earth at the end of 
his term with the chance to do 
one good deed there.
The cast of characters for Lili
om is as follows: Liliom, Alan 
Oppenheimer and John Bishop; 
Julie, Sally Seidman and Angela 
Paton; Fiscur, Phil Flad; Magis
trate, Gerald Stovin; Wolf, Robert 
Carr; Hollunder, Raymond Tudor; 
Carpenter and Guard, John Ziselman; Linzman, Don Stewart; Doc
tor, A1 Julius; Marie, Jane Harris; 
Mrs. Muskrat, Jane Hughes; 
Louise, Marjorie Paxson; Mrs. 
Hollunder, Beverly Shaffer; No. 1 
plain policeman and lieavenly po
liceman, Robert Henderson; No. 2 
plain policeman and heavenly po
liceman, Wm. McDonald; No. 1 
mounted policeman and rich man, 
Thomas Brubaker; No. 2 mounted 
policeman and poor man, Ray 
Shermeyer.
Liliom is the play from which 
the musical Carousal was taken.
The second production of the 
season will be I Remember 
Mama by John von Druten.
SILENT AS A TOMB . . . Some
students cannot understand why 
Skibo is a mob scene every lunch 
hour even though dormitory girls 
now eat at Morewood. The ex
planation is simple; Carnegie Inn 
no longer serves lunch. But there 
is plenty of space in the new stu
dent lounge in the Inn. Not a soul 
comes near the place. The lounge 
has comfortable chairs, bridge ta
bles, all the comforts. And 
yet, no students have shown up. 
Wha th matter with you?
A SHORT SHORT ... If an In
dustrial Administration man talks 
about BMDs, dont get it mixed 
with BVDs. BMD stands for basic 
management decision.
OF CRACKS AND CRACK POTS 
. . . For a while the addition to En
gineering Hall was not what it 
seemed to be. Part of the founda
tion receded slightly and caused a 
separation in the cribbing of the 
walls. This, however, has been 
repaired.
ON THE LEVEL ... Do you know
that there are 27 different floor 
levels in the Fine Arts building? 
Count them sometime.
RECORDS ... Our athletic direc
tor, Buddy Overend, will miss a 
CIT football game for the first 
time in about 26 years. He will be 
in the hospital during Carnegies 
first game.
ALUMNI . . . John Snyder, treas
urer of Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, is a Carnegie gradu
ate.
OUR ANNIVERSARY . . . Car
negies 50th anniversary is re
ceiving quite a layout in the SunTelegraph. For four consecutive 
days, the Tele has featured articles 
on Carnegies history. These ar
ticles are worth saving.
ABROAD . . . John Fockler, public 
relations, studied at the Univer
sity of Oslo, Norway, this past 
summer.
A NOTICE ... To all senior men 
who have had their pictures tak
en at Gimbels: The Thistle staff is 
sorry to report that it does not 
know the name of the brunette 
who works in the Photo-Reflex 
Studio.
MORE PLAQUES . . . After fifty 
years Carnegie has at last identi
fied its campus. It must have taken 
a long time fo make the plaques 
placed at the entrance of the cut. 
Now Pittsburghers will know 
where Tech is.
ADVERTISEMENT . . . The man
aging editor of the Technical says 
that printing students can get a 
rare specimen for ad production 
out of the forthcoming issue; it is 
a two color keyed half-tone. 
CHOO-CHOO TRAIN ... A train 
disrupted the quiet serenity of 
Carnegie Union last Friday night 
when the Citcom partygoers 
snaked through the halls shouting 
Choo choo! No stops. Mrs. Ha
gans commented that it was the 
first time a train ever ran through 
the Union.
FIGUREHEAD ON CAMPUS . . .
Back in 1922 the U. S. Govern
ment bestowed a gift of a bronzed 
figurehead from the dismantled 
USS Pittsburgh upon CIT. The 
word gift was questioned when 
Carnegies treasurer received a 
freight bill of 282 dollars. This 
gift is mounted on the prow 
which overlooks the railroad 
tracks behind Machinery Hall.
CARNEG IAHLY PSTOLBS
If You Radio Doesn't Work 
See Fields, Fryer? or Burk
SC. 1-9085 E-108 FPHA

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950TAMPANPage 3
Garry Your Money 
in your fountain pen?
Not exactly . . . but if you have a Mellon 
Checking Account, a fountain pen and your 
checkbook will take the place of carrying 
large amounts of cash. Until you need 
your money, it is safe in the bank . . . and 
yet can be withdrawn easily.
And when you pay bills, mail a check and 
save yourself time and travel. The cancelled 
check is evidence that you have made 
payment.
We offer two types of checking services 
Regular and Specialized Checking Accounts. 
Many persons have found these services 
helpful in handling their money. Perhaps 
one of them would be useful to you, too.
Let us show you the advantages of a Mellon 
Checking Account.
OAKLAND OFFICE*
Fifth and Oakland Avenues
MELLON NATIONAL BANK 
AND TRUST COMPANY
Dtpwlt lawn CwywHli
Frats Pledge 177 As 
Hectic Rushing Ends
SnS Wants 
Songs, Skits
Annual Musical Revue
Rollin V. Davis
Heads YMCA At Carnegie
Following one week of intensified rushing, Carnegies twelve 
social fraternities reported a total of 177 pledges. The past week 
has been one continual party for all freshmen who attended the 
many fraternity smokers, parties, dances, and picnics.
In an attempt to get the fresh-*
men better acquainted among more 
fraternities during rushing, no 
pledging was allowed until the 
freshmen had secured the signa
tures of officers from four different 
fraternities.
The complete list of fraternity 
pledges follows:
Alpha Tau Omega  Elroy 
Wildhaber, Elvin Cavanaugh, Phil 
Euridge, Charles Richards III, Don 
Wildman, Harold Poe, Richard 
Barbian, Don Moss.
Beta Sigma Rho  Murray Tallenfield, Peter Herman, Harvey 
White, Walter Schey, Frank Lockfeld, Joseph Manchester, Charles 
Jacobs, Don Haberman, Ronald 
Friedman, Theodore Friedman, 
Sydney Furie, Steve Schneck, Bar
ry Frank, Dick Weitzer, Sandy 
Cgoger, Dave Hofspeigel.
Beta Theta Pi  Bob Helmboldt, Bill Geneung, Ed Neilson, 
Jack Thompson, Bob Sitler, Dan 
Loneski, Bob Wise, Walt Wagner, 
Jim Hall, Bill Rowe, Don Duncklee, Stanley Gaines, Harvey Dietz, 
Bill Kernahan.
Delta Tau Delta  Rod Ander
son, Charles Atwood, George Billy, 
[Continued on page 8]
Faculty Member 
Holds Exposition 
In Netv York City
Roger Anliker, a young artist 
who has earned considerable fame 
in the Cleveland, Akron, and 
Pittsburgh areas, will have his 
first New York City one-man 
showing Oct. 2 through 2h
Anliker, who is a member of the 
CIT Painting and Design faculty, 
will show 16 framed works and 
a portfolio of drawings and studies 
in the Jacques Seligmann Gal
leries.
The 26 year old artist studied at 
the Cleveland Institute of Art and 
graduated in 1947 with top senior 
honors and the $1200 Agnes Gund 
Memorial Scholarship, which he 
used for research on the Eastern 
Coast line and a year of graduate 
study under John Teyral of the 
Cleveland Institute.
One of the new works which 
Anliker will show in New York 
during October is called Black 
Swan, and is a free interpretation 
of the Black Swan Aria from 
the opera The Midum by GianCarlo Menotti.
Marks Spring Carnival
Although last years Scotch n 
Soda show was completed just be
fore the end of the spring term, 
the SS board is already looking 
for new skits and songs to be used 
in this years production.
The Scotch n Soda musical re
vue is an annual introduction to 
the celebration of CITs Spring 
Carnival weekend. Each year over 
100 students are involved in the 
show, doing such jobs as acting, 
singing, stage-work, orchestra 
work, or writing.
Last years show, entitled Too 
Much, had skits depicting Car
negies athletic policy, a student 
and his dating troubles, the Fast
est Man in Town, and a magician 
amusing his girl friend. It also in
troduced such campus hits as Ive 
Got a Four Factor and a Broken 
Heart. 
Any student who has a skit, 
song, or even an idea for the show 
should contact the Scotch n Soda 
board through the intra-school 
mail, or tell one of the board 
members before Oct. 1.
Members of the board this year 
are Dan Cantor, A1 Moore, Bob 
Larimer, Joe Weinreich, Fred 
Price, Jeanne Button, Dick Learn
er, and Dorothy Schell.
Patronize
Tartan
Advertizers
YMCA to Celebrate 
Thirtieth Anniversary
While CIT celebrates its fiftieth anniversary, one of Carnegies
oldest and most active offspring, the local student branch of the 
YMCA, will be just turning thirty. Mr. Rollin V. Davis, the man 
who has guided the campus branch all these years can well be
--------------------------------------------?proud of the organizations past
and present record.
Carnegies local group was form
ed at the request of students who 
felt that there was a need for more 
religious activity on campus. Orig
inal activities included discussion 
groups, visitation of the sick, en
tertainment of out of town stu
dents, religious activities, and 
sports.
Religion and Service
The present day organization has 
a wide range of interests and 
services, for, in the words of Mr. 
The CIT book store has seen re- ^Davis, The YMCA at Carnegie
Tech is both a religious organiza
tion and a service organization." 
Some of the activities which the 
branch carries on include holding 
a freshman dinner, supplying 
churches with names of students
Book Store 
Stocks Variety 
Of Books, Gifts
Professor Max Schoen 
Will Autograph Book 
At CIT On October 1
markable changes since the days 
of crowds and confusion. Books 
and school supplies are still there, 
of course; but also available are 
such items as stopwatches, jackknives, sweaters, balsa wood, and I of their denomination, giving coun
even 25 cent pocket mysteries. j ciling service, keeping a library of 
Plans for the new, enlarged ! religious books, and holding three 
store began at a meeting of the ! retreats each  year in the fall, 
book store advisory committee in ; winter, and spring.
April, 1949. Originally the purpose Sponsoring of the annual rewas to create display space for j ligius discussion week is one of 
books of general interest, encour- | the most publicized activities of 
aging students to read books to j the Y. Each year fifteen or 
broaden their cultural background twenty ministers of different faiths 
and interests. This, of course, is j are invited to speak on and disone of the objectives of the famous ; cuss the problems of religion with 
Carnegie plan of professional ed- student groups. In this way the 
ucation.
One thing led to another, and 
the store began to add more and 
more items selected with an eye 
toward the students convenience.
organization helps the student 
correlate his religious thinking 
with his increasing scientific 
knowledge.
. Active Leader 
Mr. Davis became branch exec- Gift items such as childrens books, utive seCretary of the Carnegie greeting cards, and cook books are I group in 1921 and has been 
stocked purely as services to busy , active student councilor and leader 
students Personalized Christmas since that time He consolidattd.
cards will be available this tall ! and enlarged the services, activ- Plenty of activity is scheduled j ities and principles of the CIT 
for the near future m the .book j branch> and he wag instrumental 
store. On Oct. 10 Max Schoen, pro- ; in developing a program to aid thefessor emeritus of psychology, will 
be here and will autograph copies 
of his book The Man That Jesus 
Was. Starting Nov. 1, there will 
be a publisher - remainder - sale, 
featuring fine books at bargain 
prices. New merchandise is con
stantly being added, and Mr. 
Sands, manager of the store, says, 
If we dont have it, we will get 
it for you.
ms>-.
large number of GI students after 
the last war.
From 1921 to 1943 Mr. Davis 
was active in the centralization of 
student government. He was ex
ecutive secretary of student council 
until 1943 and aided the develop
ment of student activities and the 
centralized financing needed for 
these activities.
Mr. Davis attended Clarion State 
Teachers College and Oberlin, 
where he studied law until inter
rupted by World War 1. He was 
active in college sports and YMCA 
activities while at college. At pres
ent he is an honorary member of 
Scabbard and Blade, faculty ad
visor to APO and advisory secre
tary to ODK.
Retreat Planned
Present plans call for the cele
bration of the branch anniversary 
throughout the present school 
year, until the Cooks Forest re
treat planned for this spring.
With a fine past record and an 
ambitious plan for the future, the 
student Y under executive sec
retary Davis are certainly accom
plishing their purpose, to serve 
the men of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, regardless of need, in 
every possible, helpful and practi
cal way ..."
RENT
a typewriter
Portables 
Standard Office Machines 
Wide Carriage Machines 
Rates as low as*3.50 per month
3 Mos. $8.75
FIRST RENTAL APPLIES 
TO PURCHASE PRICE
Fort Pitt 
Typewriter Co.
644 Liberty Avenue 
AT. 1-8320
andup
work

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4TA4OT*ANWEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950
SPORTSCOPE
By
Fred Lunt
?&
The two recent moves made by Student Council are, to 
say the least, steps in the right direction. Certainly the stu
dent governing body has discovered an avenue down which 
it can travel towards the ultimate goal of improving school 
spirit and support of the football team by the students.
As most upperclassmen recognize, pep rallies in the past 
have been lacking both in planning and enthusiasm. This 
lack has not been due, however, to any fault of the cheer
leaders. Undoubtedly, this group has been more than willing, 
and has devoted a great deal of both time and effort towards 
conducting adequate rallies. The job has just been too big 
for such a small group.
This year pep rallies will be under the supervision of the plans 
and programs committee of Council, which will assign the con
ducting of rallies to organizations both willing and able to present 
a suitable program. From all indications, the new plan is produc
ing results, since arrangements for the first rally of the season 
point towards a more complete and interesting rally than we have 
seen since our arrival at CIT.
In addition to the usual bonfire, band music, and cheerleading, present plans include having Bill Brant of KDKA 
as master of ceremonies, a portable loud speaker system, and 
coach Eddie Baker and captain Nick Simcic present to make 
a few remarks to the students. Certainly the latter two ad
ditions to the program have been conspicuously absent from 
past rallies. We sincerely believe that the presence of the 
coaches and players can provide that extra spark that ignites 
the fire commonly called school spirit.
With such notable additions to the program at pep rallies, it 
Is difficult to believe that an increase in attendance will fail to re
sult. It is hoped and expected that such an increase in students 
present will carry over to the following day at Forbes Field. Here 
onee again Student Council, through its special committee, has ar
ranged to have the best seats reserved for Carnegie students. Pri
marily this arrangement is designed to create better and more 
unified cheering at games, certainly one of the most apparent meas
urements of school spirit.
We would like to make one suggestion in regard to gain
ing better cheering at games. If. a portable loud speaker 
system could be installed in front of the Tartan cheering 
section, it would eliminate the difficulty in understanding 
the cheerleaders and result in presentation of better cheers.
Although both of these innovations provide the improvements 
necessary to re-establish adequate support of the team, it is once 
again up to the students to assure the success of the program.
Carnegie Gridders Face 
Davis & Elkins In Op ener
v
Lou Fougere
Veteran Skibo End
Soccer Team 
Shows Promise 
In Early Drills
Although the recent rainy spells 
have cut short much of the valua
ble practice time, Coach Patrick 
OConnor has had a chance to get 
in several workouts with his 1950 
soccer squad.
In spite of the loss of several 
able players from last years team, 
a group of veterans, lead by Cap
tain Jack Burrey, has given every 
indication that CIT can exjjpct a 
successful season from its soccer 
squad.
Early practices have shown that 
such returning stalwarts as Bur
rey, Ray Jenkins, Bob Lipp, Barry 
Wartenberg, and Fred Richards 
will again give a good deal of op
position to the enemy teams. These 
men, along with several very 
promising freshmen, should form 
the nucleus of a hard fighting Ski
bo team.
According to Coach OConnor, 
the early practices have been held 
mainly with the idea of drilling on 
[Continued on page 6]
19JO Football Rtoster
No. NamePos.Wt.Ht.CourseHome Town
57Arbanas, WilliamB18761"Elec. Eng. 53Greenville, Pa.
58Blumfeldt, W. GerardHB180510"Mech. Eng. 53Pittsburgh, Pa.
10?Brourman, JackQB168511"Music 53Pittsburgh, Pa.
22?DeGiovanni, August JrJB1555'4"Architecture 51Mt. Lebanon, Pa.
12?Dissen, GilbertFB1805'104"Civil Eng. 53New Castle, Pa.
15Dodson, Albert E.B1786'2"Civil Eng. 53Pittsburgh, Pa.
29?Dougherty, Robert W.E1906'2"Chem. Eng. 51Pottsville, Pa.
11Fahey, WilliamFB168510"Elec. Eng. 53Pittsburgh, Pa.
27?Fougere, LouisE1806Aero. Eng. 51Sagamore, Mass.
49Freeman, Clyde B.C2086Mech. Eng. 52Bradford, Pa.
20Fuellgraf, CharlesC19061"Elec. Eng. 53Butler, Pa.
42?Galanda, JosephT21061"Music 53Marianna, Pa.
26Guenther, Wayne F.E2046'Print. Adm. 54Clairton, Pa.
32?Haney, Thomas P.FB1755 11"Elec. Eng. 51Emsworth, Pa.
45?Holtz, QuentinQB180510"Physics 52Hastings, Pa.
54Kaye, John *E177510"Mech. Eng. 53Pittsburgh, Pa.
33Kelton, Charles F.C1906iy2"Architecture 54Pittsburgh, Pa.
28Krotec, Lawrence M.C179510"Elec. Eng. 53Pittsburgh, Pa..
30?Lange, HansT18061"Metal. Eng. 52Pittsburgh, Pa.
35?Luchok, JohnHB1806'Metal. Eng. 52Richeyville, Pa.
44?Magnifico, John J.E19061"* Printing 51Flushing, N. Y.
39Neaman, Sanford F.C2206'Architecture 55Pittsburgh, Pa.
24Norton, JamesG1805'8"Elec. Eng. 51Erie, Pa.
50 ?Oberg, Arne R.FB1675'81/TInd. Admin. 52Pittsburgh, Pa.
53Odeh, Robert E.T2206'Ind. Admin. -52Akron, Ohio
17Oxley, JosephG1365'6"Chem. Eng. 52San Antonio, Texas
14Pakan, WilliamHB1605'8"Printing 53Duquesne, Pa:
34Pakos, Richard S.E1956'Chem. Eng. 54Lorain, Ohio
51Pandick, Peter G.G170510"Printing 54Fanwood, N. J.
23Peoples, Paul L.B19511"Ind. Admin. 54Big Run, Pa.
47Reuther, Robert W.T1776'Mech. Eng. 53Wheeling, W. Va.
25Rubin, RaymondHB165511"Mech. Eng. '53Elmwood Park, 111.
38Rusnak, George A.G228511"Elec. Eng. 52Whitaker, Pa.
21Shechter, IrvingHB1485'7"Painting & Des. 53Pittsburgh, Pa.
16Shermeyer, RaymondG1485'6"Drama 52Braddock, Pa.
19?Simcic, Nicholas F.GB175511"Elec. Eng. 51Pittsburgh, Pa.
43?Stahle, ClydeT1836'lVrMech. Eng. 53Greensburg* Pa.
40Startzell, DaleHB175510"Aero. Eng. 53Sprankle Mills, Pa.
41Vodenichar, JamesG1685'8"Elec. Eng. 53Sharon, Pa.
36Whitenight, HermanG1806'Paint. & Des. 53Munhall, Pa.
18?Wilson, Frederick A.E18061"Elec. Eng. 52McKeesport, Pa.
31Wiseman, FloydG190511"Ind. Admin. 51Monessen, Pa.
44 Leaman, Theodore R. 
Returning lettermen.
QB1655'7 H"Ind. Mgmt. 52Pittsburgh, Pa.
Rally
High-Scoring Senators 
Boast Two Victories
Next Saturday afternoon at Forbes Field the Skibos will open 
their 1950 football schedule when they play host to the gridders 
from Davis and Elkins.
This will be the third game of the year for the Senators, who
? have already recorded victories 
^  -w-t * ReRc over Concord College (25-13) andGiant t ootball Bethany Collese <26 25>In their previous games the
O  I? . Maroon and White gridders have
(jCt nt Of shown a great deal of spirit and
hustle. The prevailing sentiment isFriday Night
Baker, Simcic To Talk 
Tt Students; Bill Brant 
Master of Ceremonies
The 50 football season opens 
with a bang next Friday evening 
at 7:45 in the gym with the preDavis & Elkins game pep rally.
The Kiltie band will be there, 
freshmen WILL be there, coach, 
team representatives, and even 
KDKAs Bill Brant to make the 
big evening.
Fans will follow the Kilties 
down Margaret Morrison street to 
Forbes, along Forbes, up Morewood, around the fraternity 
houses, and out on to the Cut.
A huge bonfire will greet the 
crowd as it comes in from the 
street parade. At the fire gather
ing, MCed by Bill Brant, coach 
Baker and football squad captain 
Nick Simcic will say a few words 
in behalf of the fellows of the 
front line.
A new cheer, known only by 
cheerleaders and freshmen, will be 
unveiled to the upper class folks 
by the ace Skibo encouragement 
criers.
In the event of rain, the cheer
leaders will not burn down the 
gym; the program will be held 
sans fire inside.
Added Note: Freshmen are urg
ed to attend since this is one of 
the official functions that requires 
the presence of all dink-wearers.
Floyd Wiseman
Starting Fourth Season
that the men of D and E will be 
a tough team to beat.
The entire Senator squad is 
looking forward to a great im
provement over last years record 
when they dropped the first six 
games and then won the remain
ing two.
The sparkplug of the team is 
their stellar quarterback, Andy 
Gussie, who has been rated by 
many observers as a ball handling 
wizard. Gussie is fast, shifty, and 
he has a bag of deceptive tricks 
that fit well into the T-formation 
that the Maroon and White use.
The Senators backfield has a 
lot of speed but not much weight.
[Continued on page 6 J
STUDENT TICKETS NOW AT 50% DISCOUNT
IMAY BEEGLE CONCERTS
551-52 UNION TRUST BUILDING
28th SEASON  1950-51  SIX NOTABLE EVES.  SYRIA MOSQUE
SAT., OCT. 14SAT., FEB. 24
OPERA "LA BOHEME"ARTUR RUBINSTEIN
THlJRS., DEC. 7SAT., MAR. 3
BALLET RUSSE 
DE MONTE CARLO
ROYAL PHIL. ORCH. 
OF LONDON
Sih Thomas Beecham, Cond.
SAT., JAN. 13SAT., APRIL ")
VIENNA CHOIR BOYSKIRSTEN FLAGSTAD
Special Student Rate Sale Now On at 
"MAY BEEGLE OFFICES ". 552 Union Trust Bldg.
Prices6 Events$3.90, $5.85, $7.80, $&45 (Incl. Tax)
To Secure bove Rates. Present Your Indentification Card
The Church of The Redeemer
EPISCOPAL
5700 Forbes Street ^
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion ............................................................ 8:30 A. M.
Family Service and Church School ............................ 9:30 A. M.
Morning Prayer and Sermon .........................................11:00 A. M.s' *>
TECH CANTERBURY HOUSE 
5170 Margaret Morrison Street
Supper-Meeting every Sunday ........................................6:00 P. M.
Sunday Evening Vespers ..................................................7:30 P. M.
ComplineWednesday Evenings .................................................................9:30 P. M.
Holy CommunionThursdays............................................7:30 P. M.
ALL STUDENTS WELCOME

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950TAWA^iPage 5
Baker and Hirsh berg 
Lead Tartan Gridders
Former U. of Pittsburgh Athletes
Bolster CIT Hopes For Success
Dr. Eddie Baker was no stranger to Carnegie Tech when he 
took over the head coaching position last year and promptly proceeded 
to lead the Tartans to a winning season.
While an undergraduate at Pitts dental school, Coach Baker 
starred on Coach Jock Suther-4-----------------:----------------------------------
lands football squads and also on 
Doc Carlsons basketball teams. 
He was Pitts quarterback from
1928 to 1930.
It was during this time that he 
quarterbacked the great team of
1929 into the Rose Bowl for the 
annual New Years Day classic. 
He also served as captain of the 
football squad in 1930.
His senior year at Pitt in 1931 
he also had the honor of being 
named as captain of the basketball 
squad. From the time of his grad
uation until 1937, when he first 
came to Carnegie Tech, Eddie 
Baker served as backfield coach 
under Jock Sutherland.
In 1937 he came to Carnegie 
Tech as assistant coach under Bill 
Kern. In 1940 he was appointed 
head coach at Carnegie where he 
remained until 1942 when he went 
into the Navy. During the war he 
again had the opportunity to work 
with Bill Kern when he helped 
him develop one of the strongest 
service football teams on the Pa
cific coast.
Nowadays Dr. Baker divides his 
time between the football field 
and his dental offices. One of his 
major assets is his ability to com
mand the respect and loyalty of 
all of his players. His criticism is 
never due to anger or disgust, but 
rather it is always constructive 
and to the point.
Another important cog in the 
CIT coaching staff is Coach Eddie 
Hirshberg who has the title of line 
coach of the Skibo gridmen.
Like Dr. Baker, Coach Hirsh
berg was also a former Pitt grid
iron star and captain. He was the 
regular end for the Panthers from 
1929 to 1931, and he captained the 
team in his senior year.
After his college <teys, he spent 
several years on the coaching staff
at his alma mater. He then spent 
several more years coaching, dur
ing which time he worked at 
Scranton, Dartmouth, West Vir
ginia and Yale.
His prowess as a lineman and 
his experience with both the sin
gle wing and the winged-T make 
him a very valuable man to have 
on the CIT coaching staff.
Not only has Coach Hirshberg 
given the Tartans the advantage 
of his football knowledge but he 
has also given the linemen the 
source of hustle and determination 
that they needed.
BuddyOverend 
Misses Opener
CIT Athletic Director 
Undergoes Operation
Clarence (Buddy) Overend, Di
rector of Intercollegiate Athletics 
at Carnegie, will not be present at 
the Plaids opening game against 
Davis and Elkins this Saturday. It 
will mark the first Tartan football 
game that he has missed since 
1923, and the first opener since 
1919.
Mr. Overend, undoubtedly the 
most ardent Carnegie football en
thusiast, entered Presbyterian Hos
pital last Sunday for treatment of 
an ailing kidney. He will not only 
miss the season opener but also 
the Oct. 7 game with Bethany.
Mr. Overend has been in attend
ance at every Skibo gridiron bat
tle, whether at home or away, for 
the past 27 years, a record that 
few, if any, persons in the country 
can match.
UV (o.ba" ,ea eSby den". -u college to . VUVJ
referee * thro**etee a
when yoUwhen ,p
the I'
You'll find the answers 
to these and many other 
sport facts in the new 
1950-51 Sports Show 
Book.
Send for your 
copy today
IT'SFREE!
A. G. Spalding & Bros., Dept. NC 
161 Sixth Avenue 
New York 13, N. Y.
Please send me a free copy of the 1950-51 Spalding 
Sports Show Book by return mail.
Name______________________________________________ 
Address
Sports Headlinerby Ferguson
THE TARTANS 
WILL OUT ro 
tMPftOVe LAST 
SEASONS SCOtfP or so-i wweN 
THfV TACKLE 
DAUIS -ELWlk>S
AMa ro*Be*5 Fieto
ON SPT. ao.
THE MAIN ftEASON FORTE Cl/'S 
HICH GRIDIRON HOPES IN 19&0 
IS THE BRIUANT COACHiNGOF 
ORlt DDlE BAKE R , FORMER 
PlTTGRtAT UNDER JOCK** 
SUTHERIAWD IN 1920,23,30.
lOOiZ HIRSH80RG 
HIRSHBER6S E*PR1N<T
Coun ciun uCl WoUfyl 
IThe rhg StN ITheaF-S 
Yrda tTY rh TYLmbSrhS 
rssaS mh ,mr,t kvlpW 
9TAFf.
FeRCOSON
Skibos Defeat Duquesne Frosli 
As Offense And Defense Click
Simcic, Seliectar, Oberg Tally On Long Runs; 
Forward Wall Checks Duke Running Attack
Coach Eddie Bakers Tartan gridmen showed explosive scor
ing power and a much improved defense last Saturday morning as 
they rolled to a 20-0 victory over the Duquesne Freshmen. The 
Skibos scored early in the first quarter and were never seriously 
threatened. ? --------------------------------------------------
A Duquesne fumble set up the 
initial Plaid score. With the Scots 
in possession on the visitors 25- 
yard line, captain Nick Simcic 
faded back to pass but, with no 
receivers available, the fleet-foot
ed halfback evaded the onrushing 
enemy linemen and scampered 
down the right sideilne for the 
score.
Midway through the second pe
riod the Dukes executed their only 
sustained drive of the game, going 
to the Tartans 15-yard line be
fore being stopped.
Carnegie promptly worked the 
ball back to midfield, from where 
little Irv Shechter took the ball on 
a handoff from quarterback Jack 
Brourman, slanted off his own left 
tackle, cut to the sideline, and out
ran the entire Duquesne team to 
the goal line.
The two teams battled on even 
terms during the second half until, 
with five minutes remaining to be 
played, the Skibos counted with 
their final TD. With the ball on 
the Dukes 20-yard line, fullback 
Arne Oberg started wide to his 
left, cut back over left tackle, 
shook-off three would-be tacklers 
and crossed the goal litje standing 
up. It was the best exhibition of 
broken field running of the game.
Gil Dissen added two extra
Rule Changes
Mr. David See has announc
ed that all managers must pick 
up a copy of the new intra
mural football rules in the in
tramural office as soon as pos
sible.
The revisions in the rulebook concern the lengths of 
the playing fields, due to the 
building of the parking lot on 
the cut, and new rules on 
blocking.
points but a bad pass from center John Cooper, Bob Stackhouse, Joe 
spoiled his attempt for the other. ! McElhaney, Bob Carman, and Bill 
Led by veieran Floyd Wiseman,! Peth. 
the Tartan forward wall kept the Little John Cooper, the diminuDuquesne running attack well | tive man with the big stride, has 
throttled during most of the game.i been elected captain of this years 
Ted Leaman, recently returned j team. He, with Stockhouse and 
from the Marines, led the Plaids j Carman, has been particularly 
pass defense, heretofore one of the j promising in practice this fall, 
noticeably weak spots of the team. Among the new men who have 
Nick Simcic suffered a sprained ! looked good are Bill Bloom, trans
ankle in the fourtn quarter but is j fer student from Geneva, f&nald 
expected to be ready for the open- Campbell, Dave Douglas, Bill Draer this Saturday. 1 per, Bill Murtland, and Allan
OBERG ON TOUCHDOWN JAUNT
Carnegie fullback, Arne Oberg, is pictured above on his way 
to scoring the Plaid's final touchdown against the Duquesne Frosh 
last Saturday. Although apparently about to be downed, Oberg 
shook-off his tackier, along with two others, and kept on going over 
the goal line.
Cross Country Team Improves; 
John Cooper Named Captain
Coach Guy Halfertvs Carnegie Tech harriers held their first 
outdoor workout in Schenley Park Friday after preliminary work
outs in the Bowl and gym.
Coach Halferty, while noncommital about season prospects, is 
fairly optimistic. From last years#
squad five lettermen returning: ! Hays, from Mt. Lebanons championship team of 
Though practice 
formal tryouts ai 
Sept. 29, there 
anyone, freshmai 
man, who is int 
country to contaci 
Men with previoi 
especially 
The Tai 
scheduled
last yea 
 has stai 
e schedi
RI
or
wit
helc
Thiimarks 
of the
veicome 
in harri< 
or 11:45, 
nette. T1 
Schenk 
the 15th ai two teams.
P

---------------------------------------------------

Six Lettermen 
Meet Cratsley; 
Drills Begin
Last Friday afternoon Coach 
Mel Cratsley met with the candi
dates for the 1950-51 edition of the 
CIT basketball squad. He was 
greeted by the return of six letter
men and a host of freshmen and 
several transfer - students.
Bob McCullough, Connie Hammann, Tom Beck, Tom Craig, 
Hilary Holste, and Len Bianchi are 
the returning lettermen around 
whom Coach Cratsley must build 
his squad.
Also on hand was Bob Cowen, 
who was one of the sparkplugs of 
last years freshman team, and Bob 
Farbacher, who was forced to 
leave school last year shortly after 
practice had begun.
There are high hopes for a very 
strong freshman team this year 
with about thirty freshmen out for 
the initial practice. Several of 
these men are well over six feet 
tall and the addition of height 
would be a welcome change to the 
Tech courtmen.
Another possible source of some 
good material is in the fact that 
several transfer students have also 
turned out for the seasons prac
tices. Having already had some 
college basketball experience, 
these men may be valuable addi
tions to Coach Cratsleys squad.
Fridays meeting was the initial 
meeting with the squad and se
rious practices got under way on 
Monday. Coach Cratsley has an
nounced thatpractices will be held 
every night during the week.
The Tartans first two encoun
ters will both be away games. On 
November 29th the Skibos will 
travel to Steubenville, Ohio, where 
they will take on Steubenville Col
lege. Then on December 1st they 
wiil go to Detroit where tney will 
meet Lawrence Tech. Both of 
ihese teams were victims of the 
Tartan cage squad of last year.
EPS!
More BOUNCE To The Ounce
J. Paul Sheetly* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
SHEEDY WAS NEEDY I He was the worst neck on campus, 
and everybody looked down on him the minute they spotted 
his messy hair. Poor Paul was gonna zoo somebody until he 
herd about Wildroot Cream-Oil. Now, hes head and shoulders 
above every guy at school! Non-alcohofie Wildroot with Lan
olin keeps hair neat and well-groomed all day long. Relieves 
annoying dryness, removes loose, ugly dandruff. So dont over
look Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. Necks time you visit the 
nearest drug or toilet goods counter, get a bottle or tube of 
Wildroot. And giraffe your barber for professional applications. 
For a generous trial supply, free, send this ad with your name 
and address to Dept. DC, Wildroot Co., Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
jfc of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Page 6TAMANWEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950
Shown above are two scenes of Carnegie gridiron action dur
ing 1940. scenes that Tartan football coach Dr. Eddie Baker hopes 
will occur even fore frequently during the coming season. Halfbacks 
Nick Simcic and Johnny Luchock are pictured breaking away for 
long gains against Plaid opponents during Carnegie's first winning 
season in a decade. These two fleet-footed backs are again slated to 
do the majority of the ball-earring this year. Both are beginning 
their third season for the Skibcs. With the addition of Jack Brourman and Arne Oberg, the Plaid will pose a potent scoring threat 
to any opponent.
BegIntramurals 
With Games Today
Twenty-Three Teams Set To Battle
For Lead In Football Competition
With the passing of Freshman Week the Cut was a scene of 
vivid activity last week as twenty-three fraternity and independent 
football teams prepared for their opening games.
The six man squads are scheduled to begin league competition
this evening as six teams of the^-------------------------------------------------
four leagues meet in the first
games on the Cut.
This year the field will be ap
proximately thirty-five yards 
wide as compared with the thirty 
yard width of last year. Also a 
common goal line between fields 
one and two will be necessary as 
a result of the dirt piled at one 
end of the playing grounds.
A faster game is promised as 
new rules come into effect. In 
previous years an eight minute 
quarter was played with time out 
at every incomplete pass. This 
year the watch will be stopped 
only on official or called time out.
Each team is allowed two time 
out periods ot not more than two 
minutes during each half. Games 
running into darkness and result
ing in injuries required these 
changes. Also ankie wraps and 
physical exams will again oe nec
essary for each player.
Other intramural sports loom in 
the near future as the program 
gains momentum. Entries for the 
individual tennis tournament are 
due in on Sept- 29th and play be
gins Oct. 2. Water polo entries will 
be due the week following the ten
nis tournament, while volleyball 
is scheduled for early in Novem
ber.
First week football competition: 
Field No. 1 
Sept. 26TX-Citcom
27DU-PK
28ASCE-PiKA 
Oct. 2SAE-Neuman Cl.
Field No. 2 
Sept. 26Sr. CE-Dorm D.
27BSR-Emanon
28SN B-Greatest 
Oct. 2ATO-Raiders
Field No. 3 
Sept. 26SN A-DTD 
27KS-TDP
29Arch-Emanon
Varsity Soccer
[Continued from page 4] 
the basic fundamentals of the 
game. This coming week, however, 
the team will get in some rugged 
scrimmages. If they get a little as
sistance from the weather, the 
Tartan booters should be in top
flight form for the opening game 
with Frostburg on Oct. 14.
Davis-Elkins
[Continued from page 4]
Coach Ace Federovich has been 
drilling his team on the idea of 
employing their speed and break
away ability to the best advantage.
Unlike Coach Eddie Bakers 
Tartan gridders, the Senators have 
had very little trouble from the 
old jinx of injuries. The Senators 
are in excellent shape and they 
should be able to give a very good 
accounting of themselves.
The Tartans have also looked 
very impressive in their scrim
mages to date. With the exception 
of one or two members, the squad 
is at full strength and ready for 
next Saturdays encounter.
A fast backfield, composed of 
Nick Simcic and John Luchok at 
halfbacks, Arne Oberg at fullback, 
and probably Jack Brourman at 
quarterback will be the major 
Skibo threat to enemy defenses.
The line is Dr. Bakers main 
headache with the starting lineup 
including only two linemen who 
have had much experience. Led by 
Lou Fougere and Floyd Wiseman, 
the Tartan line, although unex
perienced, will be a strong and 
aggressive outfit.
The probable starting lineups 
for Saturdays game will be:
CITDavis and 
ElkinsPakosLECloseStahleLTKucharWisemanLGLiskoKrotecCJackShermeyerRGMarcinkoweyGalandaRTHeishmanFougereREWa'denBrourmanQBGussieSimcicLHBFugateLuchokRHBRiifleObergFBOrrison
FRANK MEN S WEAR
5816 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
Easy formula . . . that never misses! Buttondown shirts are of crisp white oxford, San
forized-labeled, of course. All silk, striped 
repp ties knot and drape to perfection. See 
them now at your favorite Arrow dealer's. 
?Good Grooming shirts *3.95 ties *2
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS
CCESS FORMULA ... ON CAMPUS OR OFF!
Arrow Gordon Oxfords
Arrow

---------------------------------------------------

^WEDNESDAY. SEPT. 27, 1950TAWPANPage 7
Found Around Campus .
Fine Arts Panels 
Display Unusual;
!ut Go Unnoticed
The artistic detail of the interior 
of Fine Arts building is a subject 
that few students investigate.
Even the doors feature intricate 
and sometimes unusual art work.
For instance, each door of the 
Little Theater and Exhibition 
Room contains a wood panel sym
bolizing one of the arts. Yet, how 
many students have given them 
more than a casual glance as they 
passed through the hall?
The unusual thing about these 
wood panels lies not in the central 
design but rather in the tiny ad
libs that the artist inscribed in 
the wood. The carver, Mr. J. Mc
Kinney, certainly had a whimsical 
mind. After whittling the tradi
tional musicians symbols on one 
panel, the harp, bagpipes, drums, 
clarinet and music scrolls, he add
ed a munute postscript, an old 
fashioned, horn-type Victor pho
nograph.
However, the artist was in a 
more serious frame of mind while 
he was working ron the drama 
panel. No ad libs are depicted 
along with the theater masques, 
dagger, Shakespearean soliloquy, 
and jester.
Again, the whimsical mood rePanel Expert At Work
Ralph Drichell Inspects Detail Of Door
Student Council Holds 
First Meeting of Year
Art Christopher Is New President; 
Discussion Held on Class Officers
Carnegies Student Council 
members dug right into the pile of 
urgent business at their first meet
ing last Wednesday. After a visit 
from the Dean of Students and his 
two assistants, the Councilmen 
discussed the sponsoring of pep
turned as McKinney whittled 
away on the painters panel. Be
side the easel and brushes and 
pallette with intertwining leaves 
is an object which to the artists 
mind may symbolize the plight of 
a landscape painter caught in the 
rain. This object is an umbrella.
Sculptors are remembered in the 
panel depicting two figures, one 
posing and the other chiseling on 
a statue.
While he was working on the 
panels, McKinney lived in the architcts office situated where the 
faculty dining room is now lo
cated. Living with McKinney were 
his mascots, a pigeon and several 
cats. The cat and the pigeon are 
two extras whittled into the ar
chitecture panel. Another ad lib 
on this panel is the figure of a 
draftsman smoking a fuming pipe;
[Continued on page 11]
Tartan Meeting
There will be a business 
meeting: of all students who 
filed cards with the Tartan 
this Friday at 8:00 p. m. The 
meeting will be devoted to 
orientation of new members to 
Tartan style of reporting and 
production methods. It will 
only last one-half hour..
The Tartan is still in need 
of more reportersboth news 
and sports, as well as feature 
writers. If you would like to 
gain added experience in 
writing, please attend Fridays 
meeting.
T* f* ^  T , v.*-.
it's easy! It's fun! No box tops to send! No essays 
to write! Just write a simple four-line jingle, and 
you may make $25! Start today!
Write a Happy-Go-Lucky jingle, like those you see on 
this page, based on some phase of college life. If your jingle 
is selected for possible use in Lucky Strike advertising, we 
will pay you $25 for the right to use it and your name in 
our advertising. Start today.Happy-Go-Luckies will soon 
be running in your paper. Send in your jinglesas many 
as you likeright away, and $25 can be yours pronto if 
your jingle is chosen. Be the first to write a jingle in your 
school. Watch this paper for more Happy-Go-Luckies.
READ THESE SIMPLE INSTRUCTIONS
Enjoy truly -fine tobacco! Enjoy 
perfect mildness and rich taste I
1. Write your Happy-GoLucky four-line jingle on a plain 
piece of paper, or postcard, and 
send it to Happy-Go-Lucky, 
P. O. Box 67, New York 46, N. Y.
Be sure your name, college and 
address are included  and that 
they are legible.
2. Every student of any college 
or university may submit jingles.
IS./M F.T- lucky Strike 
Means Fine Tobscco
rallies and a new organization of 
class officers.
Explaining the administration's 
chain of command, Dean Dickin
son told Council members that the 
rules in the White Book were 
adopted by the Trustees as their 
responsibility to the Common
wealth of Pennsylvania for the 
operation of the school. Among 
these rules is the power for Coun
cil to budget and regulate all 
school activities. He insisted that 
the governing body read the book 
and learn all its powers and du
ties.
Keep Control
He also warned the Council not 
to wash its hands of many campus 
jobs because they are turned over 
to another body for execution, but 
it should keep actual control of all 
activities and just delegate groups 
to do the work. In regard to the 
new setup in the Deans office, 
Dean Dickinson promised, The 
new arrangement should promote 
rather than complicate Councils 
activities.
President Art Christopher dis
covered that some of his commit
tee chairmen, appointed last 
spring, had not returned to school 
or Council. Due to that fact not 
all the committees were function
ing last week.
No More Senate
However Dolly Mitchell, chair
man of the class organization com
mittee, presented several pro
posals for the class officers. First, 
the newly elected officers would 
be installed in front of Student 
Council by the Council president. 
Second, the officers of all the 
classes will compose an officers 
council that will eventually 
handle all the class organization 
activities.
Leonard S m o 11 e n wondered 
what would happen to the MMCC 
Senate when the officers council 
became effective. It was pointed 
out from the by-laws that the Sen
ate was to be disbanded when an 
inter-school officers council was 
formed.
Tables- Turned
Coming to the meeting with the 
intention of asking Councils help 
in sponsoring this falls pep ral
lies, Bud Pellegrini, cheerleader 
captain, found out from the Deans 
talk that it was really Councils 
job to handle the rallies, so he of
fered his help.
He suggested that one campus 
group sponsor each one of the ral
lies, and the program be well 
enough planned to draw a crowd. 
The most needed factor for a rally 
he said, is complete co-ordination 
between cheerleader, band, spon
sor, and student body.
Get Together
Tartan sports editor Fred Lunt 
suggested that there be definite 
seating arrangements for CIT stu
dents at Forbes Field during the 
home games. He wanted to see 
again those days when Carnegie 
could outyell Pitt anytime.
Paul Stettlers plans and pro
grams committee was put in 
charge of the rally arrangements.
Your I.D. CARD Means
1 COyC Off n Jewelry /O V/TT Watch Repairs
TIME SHOP
3623 Fifth Ave. SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
CCFR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
RENT A TYPEWRITER
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR $10
TYPEWRITERS
All Kinds as Low as$2950
Americanlypewrifer Co. 
(0.1-1019
Convenient Parking
11 Wood St.

---------------------------------------------------

Page STA*ANWEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950
New Dining Hall
Recent Morewood Addition
B uilding Progo m
[Continued from page 2] *
Morewood Gardens. The sixtyapartment building was originally 
bought for one million dollars, 
initial furnishings and redecora
tion took about $450.000, and the 
cost of recent additions make up 
the remainder of the sum. The 
dormitory now has accomodations 
for 430 women students.
Parking difficulties may soon be 
lessened with the completion of 
the new lot located on the upper 
level of the cut. There will be 
space for approximately as many 
cars as are now accomodcted in 
the parking lot behind Skibo.
Rain and damp weather have 
delayed work on the lot since the 
ground must be fairly hard to take 
the weight of the heavy rrachinery necessary to spread the gravel, j 
It is hoped, however, that the lot i 
will become available for use in 
the very near future.
IA Stalled
Plans for construction of the \ 
new building to house the School 1 
of Industrial Administration have  
suffered a temporary setback. ! 
Though it was estimated that the | 
structure would cost about one 
million dollars, the lowest bid re
ceived by the August 15 deadline 
was about $400,000 above this figSteps are being taken to attempt 
.to bring the building in line with 
its budget, for, of the original 
$6,000,000 Mellon grant, only $1,- 
000,000 was earmarked for con
struction purposes. In addition to 
these major undertakings, this 
summer saw the remodeling of the 
alumni, public relations, and pro
vosts offices, as well as the total 
renovation of the book store. In
stallation of the new lighting con
trol panel for the drama depart
ment was completed, as was the 
redecoration of the Carnegie Inn.
CRISPER, CLEANER 
DRAWINGS... use
ure.
the world's largest selling
DRAWING PENCILS
Headquarters for Fraternity &
Sorority Supplies
Oakland Hardware
366K FORBES ST.
MA. 1-0923
EXPERT REPAIRS
Radios. Phonographs, 
Appliances, Television
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
123 Oakland Are. - MA. I-11 
Bring Your Radio 
Problems To Us
26 Years Experience 
At Your Service .
Turn in consistently neat, accurate drawH ings with Venus Drawing Pencils. They 
j hold their points and give you opaque 
lines for sharp, clear reproduction.
SMOOTH The lines are uniform in 
j weight and tone because the clay and 
j graphite in Venus Drawing Pencils are 
i blended evenly in the Colloidal* process.
STRONG Venus Drawing Pencils 
| are Pressure-Proofed* which means that 
the lead is bonded to the wood. Adds 
extra strength to needle-sharp points.
ACCURATE Your work is easier
with Venus Drawing Pencils. Scientifi: ;ally tested at each step of manufacture 
j and uniformly graded in all 17 degrees. 
For better results, use Venus Drawing 
Pencils with the green crackle finish. Buy 
them at your College Store.
exclusive Venus Patent
Fraternity Pledges
[Contiuued from page 3]
Don Domenick, Don Reed, Bill 
Jones, Jim Kelly, Tom Simons, 
John Strohm, Stanley Watt, Frank 
West, Bob Fallat, Bill Becker.
Delta Upsilon  Eugene OReil
ly, Harry Lantz, Daniel Levin, 
John Peoples, Russell Paquette, J. 
Lawrence Walsh, Richard Bren
nan, Hugh Young, James Weet, 
Jerome Wallace, Donald Newman, 
Richard Boschetto, Harry Sparks, 
Ronald Bugos. ,
Kappa Sigma  Dale Startzell, 
Douglas Mims Jr., Charles Carroll, 
Thomas Craig, Harry Saro, Keith 
Riley, Dick Kendrick, Harvey 
Katz, Alfred Cerrito, Arthur
Pringle III, Harry McCune, Walter 
Selavko, Lawrence Glavin, Ed
ward Sauer, Richard Pakos, Paul 
Peoples, George Rusnak.
Phi Kappa  Joseph Ceo, John 
Black, Richard Englehart, Theo
dore Janusz, Robert Settee, Carl 
Pavcick, Wilbert Flans, Raymond 
Malburg, James Shenker, Joseph
Kebe, James Shaughnessy, John 
Najetich. 
Pi Kappa Alpha  Charles 
Bateman, John Collins, Ralph 
Brischell, Bill Hurley, Dale Kirkbride, Charles Lewis, Bill Prey, 
Newton Ruffing, Bob Steiger, Karl 
Theyer, Jack Armour, Carl Schuck, 
Wilm Donath, Gary Ledford, Skip 
Wargo, Tony Lowery, Phil Drew.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon  Joseph 
Bachman, Richard Campbell, Ned 
Clark, R. Anthony Cook, Bud 
Fagley, Robert Fahle, Juan Pujadas, George orde, Inaki Elguezabel, 
Leroy Thompson, Paul Conrad, 
Richard Sheafer, George Seitanakis, Jack McKissick, Clay Bar
ringer.
Sigma Nu  Paul Broome, Bill 
Bruening, Bob Samuelson, Paul 
Senio, Ken Haynes, Brinton 
Thompson, Skip Skinner, Ed Rose, 
Pete Hendick, Dick Hunt, John 
Delacio, George Clifford, Dave 
Dauglas, Phillip Morseberger,
Howard Schaeffer, Robert Knight, 
Bill Minck, David Shiras, Joseph 
Cingraile, Robert Knepper, Bill 
Pakan, Dick Thompson, John 
Kablach, Ed Walsh, Ron Prothero, 
Bill Trotzman, Erwin Budde, Wal
ter Morgan, George Bushy, Don
ald Lundquist, Danny Thompson, 
Howard Harvey, Howard Warren, 
Amato Teta, Bill Merritt, Barry 
Shutterly. Jay Doyle, Kay Thomp
son.
Tau Delta Phi  Conny Adler, 
Barry Innerfield, Al Cahen, Carl 
Finder, Jerry Seiner, Don Weaver.
Theta Xi  Lawrence Summerill, Arthur Motycka Jr., Gordon 
Rowe, Joseph Bersce, Jack Seas, 
Richard Lynch, Bill Mannel.
Patronize
Tartan
Advertizers
Meet me at St. Andrew's
LUTHERAN
STUDENT
CENTER
Sundays
11 A.M. Worship 
10 A.M. Bible Class 6 P.M. Youth Supper 
2nd & 4th Sun. 
Headquarters: Lutheran 
Students Association.Tuesday & Friday Meetings
ST. ANDREW'S WELCOMES YOU!
Walk,*r Car* ?l * *5 
Mred and Center Aves.
UNIVERSITY
RECREATION
Bowlin g
AFTERNOON, SAT. Sc SUN. 
BOWLING
407-4M CRAIG ST.
SC. 1-9307
FOR THIS HELPFUL 
INSTRUCTION BOOKLET!
Try Venus on your 
drawing board!
Send 25c. for Sketching 
with Venus ... 24 pages 
of valuable illustrated in
struction. Also you get at 
no extra cost a Technical 
Test Kit, featuring 2 Ve 
Drawing Pencils.
American Pencil Company, Hoboken, New JcfKj
makers of famous Venus Pent
American Lead Pencil Co.
; Hoboken, N.J. Dept. CNF* 950) j
Enclosed is 25c for my copy of Sketching 1j with Venus and the Technical Test Hit !1 with 2 Venus Drawing Pencils.* :, Name-----------------------^----------------r---------1 
College..... .........
Address__........_______...______....___
City______________________5*ate...____

THEM All!
*3.5.0 perr.m challenges
any other leading brand 
to suggest this test
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF 
SMOKERS, who tried this test, 
report in signed statements that 
PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY 
LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1. . . Light up a PHILIP MORRIS 2. .. Light up your present brand
Just take a puffDONT INHALEand Do exactly the same thingDONT
s-|-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting?
your nose. Easy, isn't it? And NOW... Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claimsbut Philip Morris invites you 
to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself.
Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . 
Philip Morris is, indeed, Americas FINEST Cigarette!
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
bscc
o]RPHIUP MORRIS

---------------------------------------------------

}
tact Morty Baker. (SC. 1 
8851)
additiona $30,000 electronic console control, the latest thing in stage 
lightingin its first production this fall. This installation, designed 
by George C. Izenour, is one of three in this country, the other two
being at Yale University and in*-----------------------------------------------------
the Goodman Theatre of the Art mmmmmMmmm&m 
Institute of Chicago.
This new equipment requires ^ jg |
only one person to handle the
lighting of an entire show. Even lllftfy' v y |||1
the most complicated efTects can J M ~
be handled by two people. C s^TJT ~~
Can Be Preset
During the rehearsal when the 
desired lighting effect is achieved, ;jjf ini
the individual dials on each of the   % ^ ^
circuits in use are read and the
J esuits recorded. These record- ' < * 5..,
ings are then transferred to a 111 Jv3f5iSR
preset panel, and by merely push- 1 WV' /'i-J/fy
ing one button, the same effect
can be duplicated. t ' '
With this control ten presets I *J * ~
can be madp at one time enabling |gl> " < ' "f ^ 
any one of the effects to be [' ^
available, regardless of order or HR V- , v
reuse, by pushing the l ight but- jf ^ ^
tons. WH&. '' ' ' ^Also, it is possible to change NHHHHHMHHiiiiHHIHHHHHI 
from one lighting effect to an
other by means of an automatic 
fader which can be set to make 
the change in predetermined past. Experience with the origin 
times, varying from five seconds nal board shows that lighting time 
to ten minutes. In case there is has been cut to one-fourth of that 
a change in original plans, a hand previously necessary, 
fader is provided. In addition to the panel, two
 More Room scene projectors are being inThis new console, being placed stalled in the Little Theatre. These 
Off stage, also permits the wings identical projectors project kodaof the stage to be free of the chrome slides on a screen backmassive controls needed in the drop. Using the projectors, a
encouraging sign that there wili 
be an abundance of pep at the 
rallies and on the playing field.Citcoms Frosli 
Mixer Proves 
Great Success
If Citcom Clans Freshman Mixer is any criterion, CIT commuters 
! are going to have a jolly social life 
j this year. The first party, held last 
I Friday in the Union, was a tre
mendous success. Frank Beitel, 
president, promises to provide a 
larger meeting place if the crowds 
continue.
For the benefit of those who 
have not had an opportunity to 
join, the Citcom booth in Skibo 
| will be open until Sept. 29. Cit[ comites at the booth will be very 
happy to answer anyquestions the 
freshmen may have concerning the 
campus and school activities.
Clanfellows interested in foot
ball and bowling for intramural 
competition should notice the Cit
com section of the Skibo bulletin 
board. Members, old and new, are 
asked to watch this board for an
nouncement of the first general 
Clan meeting.
Frank McWilliams, senior: i
think the tean 
have a 
very suceessfu. 
m season. M y
only prediction 
^11$ is what Ive 
1 heard. We will
w*n ^ive anc* lose three. 1 
^ifjp w think the school
UPt athletic policy Wm^ 'Mm is good; I dont
go in for heavy subsidy. But a 
school as large as this should play 
larger teams than Davis and Elk
ins. It seems we are playing small 
teams strictly for the alumni so 
that we look good; we have a win
ning team. We seem to be play
ing teams that are below us.
Joy Ostergaard, junior: I think 
the team will ...
of the winning
season last year. The team 
shouldnt play big teams if they 
are going to be sadly beaten, but 
I would rather see us play big 
teams.
New Control Panel
Recent Drama Department Addition
scene can be changed while action 
is taking place on stage by fad
ing one projected backdrop into 
another.
Yale Inventor
The inventor of both the panel 
and projectors, George Izenour, 
is a research associate at Yale 
University. There he holds the 
[Continued on page 11]
Patronize 
Tartan 
Advertizers
Paul Stettler, senior: I would 
say well have 
a 6-2 record but 
most likely it 
will be a 5-:, 
score. Tech has 
 :ir a good tean
anc* kesiJipi|* half- back n
^ western Pennsylvania, Nick 
dmzmm w Mm Simcic. is play- ing on it im 
looking for a great year with lots 
of football spirit on campus. This 
year the students entering Tech 
are younger an9 have enthusiasm. 
They should increase the spirit 
and interest in football.
Only Chevrolet lets you make such a
and at the lowest
Choose between 
Standard Drive and ^
POW
Automatic Transmission
Combination of Powerglide automatic transmission and 105-h.p. engine op
tional on De Luxe models at extra cost.
Harriet Treon, sophomore: 1
would say 
theyd win 
two - thirds of 
the games this 
year. We got a
good start last V?
year and the  ^
spirit will carry *|S||, ,.
over into this %
year. Carnegie 
should have 
c o m p e titions Jnm
with schools of our caliber. We
have one of the leading colleges 
in the country scholastically; we 
should be athletically also. Our
pep rallies have left me cold; 
they seem to lack spirit.
Choose between Styleline 
and Fleetline Styling
Bob Dougherty, senior: Weve 
^ x g o t a g o o d
chance to win 
all the games 
if the team will 
put forth a lit
tle more effort 
than they did 
last year. You 
cant predict 
how many 
games well 
win; if a team's 
up theyre hard to beat. Pep ral
lies mean a lot to a team. You 
dont hear the cheers at games 
but you feel the attitude of stu
dents on campus. All the team 
has confidence in itself and its 
coaches.
Again this week, the inquiring 
reporter found that school spirit 
is evident on campus. Enthusiasm 
and interest can mean much to a 
college in athletic matters.
Choose between 
the Bel Air and the Convertible
Americas Best Seller. . . Americas Best Buy!
SEE YOUR LOCAL CHEVROLET DEALER
Conveniently listed under "Automobiles in your local classified telephone directory
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950Page y
CIT Drama Department Installs 
Electronic Stagelighting Panel
New Board Is One of Three in This Country; 
Successfully Cuts Time, Number of Operators
Carnegies Drama department will proudly present its newest
Advertising Men
0 The Tartan business staff 
needs advertising and circula
tion personnel. All interested 
students, especially freshmen 
and sophomores, are requested 
to attend the Tartan meeting 
on Friday, Sept. 29, at 7:30 in 
the Carnegie Union, or to conGood Grid Campaign 
Predicted By Students
Now that the first football game of the season is four days away 
students are beginning to think seriously about the possibilities ol 
another winning season. What kind of a showing will our team 
make this year? The optimism expressed by these students is an

---------------------------------------------------

.,<o.o"il"ci"iS7thE MARX, ur ^
Page 10TA49ANWEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27, 1950
Veterans Are Still Able To 
Regain Lost Loan Entitlements
Veteran* Administration Authorized By Act
To Restore Loan-Rights Lost In Special Cases
Veterans Administration outlined conditions under which World 
W ar II veterans who have used their loan guaranty rights under 
the GI Bill may have their entitlement to V-A-guaranteed loans for 
homes, farms and business restored under certain special circum
stances. ? ---------1-----------------------------------*
The Housing Act-of 1950 author- veteran or a member of his 
ized V-A to restore the amount of . family, as evidenced by a doctors 
lean guaranty entitlement used by ; certificate;
a veteran to purchase property j 2. Employment reasons, such as
which subsequently is taken over 
for public use. destroyed by fire 
or other natural hazard, or is disloss of employment which requires 
removal to another city or town, 
or where the veteran is transposed of because of other com- feired by his employer. In such 
pelling reasons devoid of fault on caSes V-A said the reason for 
the part of the veteran. j moving must be one which could
No Liability j not have been anticipated at the
A further condition is that V-A time the property was purchased, 
must have been relieved of lia- i Loss of temporary employment, 
bility in connection with the gov- or persons subject to an employernment guarantee on the loan ers rotation policy, as in the case 
with no claim having been made : of regular military personnel 
against it. | transferred periodically, do not
In defining other compelling i quality, 
reasons. V-A said it first must be ! 3. Such other reasons as V-A
shown that failure to restore the; finds in individual cases to be 
used entitlement would result in a . compelling,* where disposal of 
substantial hardship to the vet- the property became a practical 
eran. Examples of conditions un- necessity due to factors over which 
der which restoration may be the veteran had no control, 
made were outlined as follows: , No Third Party
1. Resons of health, such as 1 V-A emphasized , that entitlewhere a home is disposed of be- ! ment cannot be restored where the 
cause the type of dwelling or cli- j veteran's mortgage indebtedness is 
mate of the locality is injurious to. i [Continued on page 11]
T echnical
Take advantage of this op
portunity in student publica
tions work. The Carnegie 
Technical will fill openings on 
its staff at a meeting this Sat
urday, Sept. 30. Come up. at 
12:30 sharp, to the Technical 
office. 3rd floor Carnegie 
Union.
We have openings in adver
tising, circulation, production, 
drafting, and typing, to name 
a few. Act this Saturday; stop 
up on your way to the game.
Tokyo Student 
In First Class 
Of IA School
Takehiko Matsuda from Tokyo, 
Japan, will be in the first regular 
class of the new graduate school 
of Industrial Administration, 
which will formally open its door? 
this fall at CIT.
Matsuda, holder of a bachelor of 
engineering degree from Tokyo 
University and currently a gradu
ate student there, intends to re
turn after completing his studies 
in America and apply for a posi
tion on the faculty of Tokyo Uni
versity.
During World War II, Matsuda 
served in the Japanese navy.
FOR
USED 
TEXT B]]KS
A Feiv Steps 
Save You Dollars at
HEsDcEE'S B]]K ST]RE
(Student Book Exchange)
3811 FIFTH AVENUE
~jtl imS'ifljjih mstfokclkf io stuxesi, 
(TKOiA corpus
Burt
SORORITY OF SERVICE
The girls who belong are calm, competent, considerate. 
Their job is to get your call through quickly and accu
rately, wherever you want to go day or night, any day 
of the week. And courtesy is their creed. They are the 
220,000 telephone operators of the Bell System.
BELL TELEPHONE SYS1TJVIHARVEY'S MEN'S SHOP
HEADQUARTERS FOB MANHATTAN SHIRTS IN SQUIRREL HIM.
1707 MURRAY AVE.
Open Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Evenings 
PHONE JA. 1-3500 
 ............ ................ - 
Bvrf oxford button-down collar with the soft roll 
(th college man's staple diet). A ''Manhattan, of course.
Range
$3.65 and $3.95
RM99fine white broadcloth with the wide-spread 
collar. Made by "Manhattan, which means perfect fit.
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of "Manhattan shirt, ties, 
underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, beacmvear and handkerchiefs.

---------------------------------------------------

Advertizers
3-Hour Service 
On Dry Cleaning
ROUGH-DRY 
LAUNDRY 
Washed and Dried
Same Day 
Service
SHIRTS
Washed and finished
CAMPUS
CLEANERS
4699 Forbes St.
WELi AY, SEPT. 27, 1950TA4WANPage 11
Veteans Loans Possible
[Continued from page 10] 
assumed by a third party, with 
V-A remaining liable on the loan 
guarantee. Also, restoration will 
be made but once for any veteran,
| except in very unusual circum
stances.
Prior to the GI loan amendfments contained in the Housing 
[Act of 1950, approved April 20, an 
[eligible veteran was entitled to a 
V-A guarantee of 50 percent of a 
real estate loan, up to a maximum 
guarantee of $4,000. For veterans 
who have used none of their loan 
guaranty entitlement, the Act 
raised the home loan guarantee to 
60 percent of the loan, and a max
imum of $7,500.
Still Eligible
V-A said that where a veteran 
had used none of "his loan guar
anty entitlement other than that 
which is restored under the new 
provision, he will be considered 
as having used none of his loan
rights and, therefore, eligible for 
the higher guarantee.
Application for restoration of 
used entitlement should be made 
to the Loan Guaranty Officer of 
the V-A Regional Office which is
sued the guarantee on the loan. 
A written statement should be 
submitted setting forth the rea
sons for the request; details of 
of the damage, destruction, con
demnation, loss or disposal of the 
property; the amount realized 
from the sale, condemnation award 
or insurance settlement and the 
disposition made of it; and wheth
er the property is to be restored.
Doctors Certificate
In the case of requests based on 
reasons of health or employment, 
a doctors certificate confirming 
the health factor, or a statement 
from the employer evidencing loss 
of employment or of transfer and 
the reason for it, should be sup
plied.
A verage Factor 
Rating Is 2.3964; 
Sororities Lead
Factor ratings recently released 
by the Deans office show a gen
eral college average of 2.3964. The 
sorority sisters wound up ahead of 
both the school average and the 
womens average. With a rating of 
2.687 they rate .291 above the col
lege average and .125 above the 
womens average.
Alpha lipsilon Phi led the soror
ities with 2.820. Delta Delta Delta, 
2.741; Chi Omega, 2.703; Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, 2.667; Delta Gam
ma, 2.583; Kappa Alpha Theta, 
2.556; and Sigma Kappa, 2.341, fol
low in that order.
It is expected that the break
down in the mens factors will be 
released by the Council of Fra
ternity Presidents at the next 
meeting and will appear in the 
next issue of the Tartan.
W ood-Carving
[Continued from page 7]
this may be a caricature of one of
the architects.
Since the College of Fine Arts; 
has only five depai'tments, the: 
sixth panel is a carving of a tele- | 
scope, astral globes, scholars1 
scrolls, triangle and clouds. The' 
whittler perhaps believed this to ; 
be a symbol that philosophy was ! 
the binding force between the arts, j 
Many of the little ad ]ibs have | 
been removed from the panels be
cause they were believed to be j 
risque. Although these panels 
were investigated carefully, per- j 
haps the observer overlooked 
few of the postscripts.
Patronize 
Tartan
New Courses 
Are Offered 
In Mathematics
The Department of Mathematics 
has added two new courses to their 
schedule this year. The first of 
these is a combination of Ad
vanced Calculus and Functions of 
a Complex Variable to be given in 
two semesters instead of the usual 
three. This course, S-269-270. is 
being taught by Dr. Moskovitz five 
hours a week and is worth 15 
units. It w*as added to the curri
culum upon the suggestion of the 
electrical engineering and me
chanical engineering departments.
The second course is S-285-286, 
Electrical Networks I and II. Ad
vanced Calculus is a prerequisite
for this course whien will be a 
critical study of electrical net
works from the viewpoint of top
ology, algebra, and function the: ory . This subject, worth nine 
j units, will be taught by Associate 
i Professor Duffin.
Several new courses vvill be of! fered in the graduate school.
I These courses are fundamental 
j courses in pure and applied rr.at.h\ ematics. They include GS-35-316, 
Boundary Value Problems of 
 j Wave Motion I and II, to be taught 
j by Associate Professor Heins; GS| 331-332, Algebraic Geometry I 
i and II, by Professor Neel ley; GS| 355-356, Advanced Vibrations I 
| and II, by Professor Saibel; and 
; GS-397a-397b, Statistical Analysis 
| I and II, by Associate Professor 
j Olds.--------------------------
Netv Panelk[ [Coriti?med from page 9]
I title of Associate Professor, and 
; he is also lighting control coni sultant for Century Lighting. Inc. 
j of New York. The electronic 
j panel, which was four and onehalf years in development, was 
designed under a research grant 
1 from the Rockefeller Foundation.
"ShucksI blew in when I shouldve blown out!
JTity the poor Piscis! Hes been making all those 
trick cigarette tests youve been reading about ! Hes taken one puff of this
brand  one sniff of that. A quick inhale of cigarette A  a fast exhale 
of cigarette B  and hes still confused! Seriously, isnt the sensible way to 
test a cigarette to smoke pack after pack, day after day?
Thats the test Camel asks you to make  I r ? JBthe 30-Day Mildness Test. Smoke Camels  and
only Camels  regularly for 30 days. Your T-Zone
(T for Throat and T for Taste)  is the real proving 
ground for any cigarette. After youve tried Camels 
as your regular smoke, youll know why...
9*
More People Smoke Camels
than any other cigarette!
Vanderbilt Center Vmnderbt University ihuhvMe, Tennessee
In Nashville, Tennessee, there is 
always a friendly gathering oli 
Vanderbilt University students at1 
the Vanderbilt Center on the cam
pus. And as in universities every
where, ice-cold Coca-Cola help# 
make these get-togethers something 
to remember. As a refreshing paue 
from the study grind, or on a Satur 
day night dateCoke belongs.
^Plua 1* 
State Tax
Ask jor it either trry ... both 
trade-marks mean the smmt thing.
OKI UNDER AUTHORITY Of TKf COCACOtA COMPANY |Y
Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests 
Number 2...THE BLOW FISH

---------------------------------------------------

JANET LEE, UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS S!
PHTS TAKE*I 
AT Um NfV.
LEADING SELLER IN A
V. .V.V- I  V ' lYiggggjiiftVf-.v- /..V..Vr-yy.^^'^f. //. ,.^.^,1^I
sTTENTI]N STUDENTS!
Look no further for your laundry 
and dry cleaning needs
] H]UR DRY bcEsNING SERVIbE
SAME DAY LAUNDRY SERVICE
(Rough DryWashed'and Dryed)
SHIRTS
(Beautifully Washed and Pressed)
  
bsMPUS bcEsNERS
4609 FORBES STREET
(ONE BLOCK FROM THE CAMPUS)
CYRNATS BoSGMSTrLStH 
bles ndf iescI ClhnIceecW
BEFORE YOU SMOKE THEM
...you can tell Chesterfields will smoke milder, 
because tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder.
AFTER YOU SMOKE THEM
...you have no unpleasant after*taste.
WHILE YOU SMOKE THEM you get more pleasure than 
any other cigarette can give you  that9s why millions of 
smokers say: THEY SATISFY.
Page 12
Bnlleii i
Engineer Receives Award
Clifford William McCoy, a jun
ior in metallurgical engineering at. 
Carnegie Tech, has been awarded 
the Lewis E. Young award for the 
year 1950-51.
The award is given by the Wom
ens Auxiliary of the American In
stitute for Mining and Metallurg
ical Engineers, and is presented in 
honor of Dr. Lewis E. Young, past 
president of the Institute.
Given on the basis of character 
and high scholastic achievement, 
this award will be given to a Car
negie student every third year, 
with similar awards being given 
at Penn State and the University 
of Pittsburgh in the intervening 
years.
SAE Schedules Films 
At First Meeting, Oct. 3
Carnegies recently formed 
chapter of the Society of Automo
tive Engineers will hold its first 
meeting on Tuesday, Oct. 3, at 
11:30 in IH 331. Two films will be 
shown, and there will be an op
portunity lor interested students 
to join the organization.
SAE, one of Carnegies newest 
student groups, was organized last 
spring in an effort to give under
graduates interested in current
i Board
automotive developments an op
portunity to hear speakers from 
the industry and view films on re
cent advances in the field of trans
portation.
Membership is open to all en
gineering students. Student mem
bers are also entitled to attend the 
monthly meetings of the senior or
ganization held at the Mellon In
stitute.
Contest
The contest being; sponsored 
by the Tartan to select a new 
flaghead for this years paper 
closes this Friday night at 
11:00 p.m.
To answer many recent in
quiries and to clarify the no
tice in last weeks paper, an 
entry suitable for reproduction 
purposes is one submitted on 
white paper or board (prefer
ably the latter), and finished 
in black india ink.
The Tartan will award $10 
to the designer of the winning 
entry. Announcement of the 
winner will be made in next 
weeks Tartan.
Promotions Are 
Announced By 
Tartan Staff
Four promotions have been 
made by the Tartan editorial staff 
during the past week.
Richard C. Gilson, chief photog
rapher during the past year, has 
been appointed photography edi
tor for the coming year. Gilson is 
a sophomore printing student and 
a member of Kappa Sigma frater
nity.
Art Christopher, capable sports 
reporter for the past year, has 
been appointed assistant sports 
editor. Christopher, a senior elec
trical engineer, is a member of 
Theta Xi fraternity and is presi
dent of Student Council.
Dave Goldsmith is the new ad
vertising manager. A member of 
Tau Delta Phi fraternity, Gold
smith is also a photographer for 
the Tartan. He is a sophomore 
printer.
Another sophomore printing stu
dent, John Tancill, has been ap
pointed new proof editor. Tancill 
is a member of Kappa Sigma fra
ternity.
_________________ WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 27,
Patronize Our Advertisers
