Charles Walsh;  the other, a 
democratic underground . move
ment s tarted by his wife and 
father.
Cast
VOL. 49No. 22 CAJtNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., APRIL 10, 1956
Spring Carnival Theme 
To Be Musical Mischief
Spring Carnival, biggest weekend of the year, is still four weeks# 
away, on May 4th and 5th, spilling over slightly into the 3rd and I 
6th, but preparations have been buzzing for some time as booth de
signs and campaign promises are being fitted to the theme of Musical'
Mischief. The jam-packed sixty oi# ----------------------------------- -------------|
seventy-two hours features a beCall Day
An organization wishing to 
make a call or an award at 
Coronation  and Call Day 
please notify Diane Farring
ton at MU 2-8889.
wildering variety of activities and 
,Waves a limp, but happy trouperSforker-revellers in its wake. .
Thursday evening the Midway 
opens, with towering ferris wheel, 
merry-go-round and other faster 
more macabre rides, and the line
up of gaily decorated fraternity 
and sorority booths, where live
goldfish, kewpie dolls, wonderful, I ,
whimiscal large and small stuff- j State S Chaplain 
ed animals, leis, whistles, Chinese 1
handcuffs etc. etc. await the lucky / Q SfiCalx tlCrC 
winners. *
Call Day Friday
Things get rolling around dawn The ker for the final assem_ 
on Friday morning when a few j>bly Qf thig schoolyear will be Dr.sleepy pit men take their buggys Luther Harshbarger; University 
down to Machinery Hall , for the ; Chaplain and co_ordinator of re
design judging. Although it s the jjgious affairs at Pennsylvania 
first event on the program, few  state University. Chaplain HarshAt Last Assembly
attend. But by nine or nine-thirty 
everyone is up and crowds with 
crazy hats and cameras are mill
ing around in front of the I.A. 
ilding for the races (sweepikes preliminaries). With three
barger will speak at 11:30 on 
Tuesday, April 17, in the Porter 
Hall Auditorium. The title of his j 
speech will be Life Is Encount
er.
Dr. Harshbarger is an ordainedbuggies in a heat and fifteen oi , minjster of the Church of -the 
twenty in the competition, the Brethren. He graduated from Mceliminations go on for most of the pherSon College in 1939. He has ! 
morning. I done graduate work at Yale Uni- j
Libraries and Skibo close at one j versjty Divinity School, Temple 
oclock in delerence to the Call j University^ and holds a D.D. de- : 
Day Ceremonies, which will be on | gree from jyniata College. He has 
Flagstaff Hill if the weather is been a local pastor, and was for 
nice. Scholarships and awaids are | several years associated with the 
announced, honoraries make theii < ymCA in its work with prisoners 
goring calls, and, last of all, after 
excruciating suspense and inter
vals of good music by the Kiltie 
Band and Cameron Choir, the 
queen is crowned by Dr. Warner.
Her first act is to open Spring Car
nival officially, although some
what belatedly.
Dance, Awards Saturday 
After Call Day on Friday,
[Continued on page 7
thieves Purloin 
Costly Panic Bars 
From More wood
There was a panic about panic 
bars in Morewood Gardens 
Tuesday night. It seems that 
brass bars on the four tower doors 
of the dormitory were stolen while 
the doors were left open for the 
indents moving in after Easter 
^cation.
Mrs. Rosalie Hagins, resident 
head, discovered the crime shortly 
before 10:00 that night when she 
went out to shut the A tower door. 
On further investigation she and 
the janitor discovered the theft on 
the remaining three doors. It was 
too late that night for anything to 
be done, but word was spread to 
the male campus population as to 
tJvi serious nature of the offense.
i^ot only are the bars valuable 
and, because they are made by 
special order, would take three 
months to replace, but their ab
sence is a great danger. Panic 
bars, so called because they open 
the doors quickly and easily 
merely by being pushed upon and 
are useful in fires, are very neces
sary in dormitories and other 
places containing a large number 
people in case of emergencies 
requiring a rapid exodus. Since 
they are the only means of open
ing the dormitory doors, aside 
fContinued on page 7]
Dr. Luther Harshbarger
Speaker At Final Assembly
many. For two years he was sen
ior representative of the Worlds 
Alliance of YMCAs in Belgium 
and the Netherlands.
Chaplain Harshbarger will be 
on the campus for two days pre
ceding the assembly date to meet 
with student and faculty on the 
campus and to confer with indi
viduals. This assembly is being 
sponsored by the Student Chris
tian Federation Council in co
operation with the Committee on 
Religious Activities.
Atomic Age Drama 
Opens Tomorrow 
In Little Theater
The fifth production of the 
drama department will be Sur
vival in Sefton, New Hampshire, 
a serious fantasy by Charles 
Werner Moore, the second mem
ber of the drama faculty to have 
an original play done by the de
partment this year.
TKe play takes place in 1965 
after the dropping of the Hbomb. It deals primarily with 
whether or not it is possible to 
maintain human dignity and hu
man ideals in a time when sheer 
survival is' far from assured.
Michael Ebert will be seen in 
the role of Colonel Paul Sayre, 
a man who is placed by the army 
in the unpleasant position of 
working against _ two opposing 
forcesone, a power hungry ty
rant named Cathcart, played by 
Charles Walsh:
played by Janice Mesekoff and 
Rose Marie Schneider, his father 
Robinson Sayre, by Josef Som
mer; and his daughter, Caroline, 
by Marlou Jahn and Rosalyn 
Newport. Vincent Romeo will will 
play the part of M/Sgt. Nello Bardini, a friend of Paul. Franziskj 
Jungk and Shirley Mendonca will 
be seen in the role of Emily Har[Continued on page 8]
Bill Finegan And Eddie Sauter
Featured at Spring Car nival Saturday Dance
Carnival Will Feature 
Sauter-Finegan Music
What youll hear at Carnival this year is lots of good mildly 
progressive jazz. Sauter-Finegan and Claue Thornhill will both, 
or all three, depending on how you look at it, be here making 
Musical Mischief at Spring Carnival.
? Claude Thornhill, with his piano
Scholarship
_ Mortar Board is awarding a 
$150 scholarship to a junior 
woman from any of the col
leges. The scholarship will be 
awarded this spring to a girl 
who has shown service and 
leadership on the campus.
This applicant must have at 
least a 2.75 average factor for 
the two previous semesters.
Applications may be secured 
in the Dean of Womens Office 
on or after Tuesday, April 10, 
1956, ana mus be returned by 
April 20, 1956.
Kiltie Spring Concert 
Slated For Tomorrow
Colonel William F. Santelmann, retired leader of the U. S. 
Band, will be the first guest conductor at the Carnegie Tech 
Spring Concert, at Carnegie Music Hall, April 11. He 
will share the podium with Director George Reynolds. 
---------------------------------------------------------? banrelmann attained the high
est rank ever held by a musician
and orchestra and vocalist will be 
featured at a two hour jazz con
cert in the gym on Friday night, 
which is planned to be quite in
formal. The popular Thornhill 
theme song (he' is his own ar
ranger for all the numbers) is. 
alas, Snowfall, which is just 
one-up on the pessimists who claim 
that it always rains for carnival. 
His orchestra has unique arrange
ments in the reed and brass sec
tions. There are three trumpets, 
two trombones, five men doubling 
on sax and clarinet, and a French 
horn, which is usually associated 
with symphonic music. Three 
rhythm pieces and Thornhill him
self at the piano complete the 
group.
Thornhill, who says he loves 
the traveling and one-night stands, 
has worked as pianist and arrang
er with Bing Crosby, Benny Good
man, Charlie Spivak, and the late 
Glenn Miller. Some of the great 
Gerry Mulligans arrangements,
Activities Key
All juniors and seniors in
terested in applying for an 
all- school activities key may 
procure an application from 
the Dean of Mens office. Ap
plications should be complet
ed and returned by April 27.
Scotch n Soda 
Long History 
Of Musical Shows
During the fall semester of 
1907, a club named the White 
Friars was founded for the pur
pose of presenting a musical show 
during the Spring Carnical week
end. The efforts of this club fin
ally produced All in a Dormi
tory, during the spring of 1908. 
This first club lasted until 1913.
Tech remained wtthout a musi
cal club until 1932, when a group 
of students decided to get to
gether to form a club known as 
The Bacchanalians. In 1938. that 
name was changed to Scotch and 
Soda Club. Their first Scotch and 
Soda production was No 
Strings.
During the second World War,
in the Marine Corps after he took 
over leadership of the band from 
his father in 1940.
Except for three numbers chos
en by Kiltie Director George 
Reynolds, the Spring Concert pro
gram is a selection of Santelmanns favorites, representing a 
cross section of the best band lit
erature here and abroad.
The traditional procession of 
bagpipers in colorful Scottish eve
ning dress will march into Car
negie Music Hall at 8:15 Wednes
day evening, April 11, to open the 
concert and George Reynolds will 
lead the 91-member band in three 
numbers.
Varied Program
March Militaire Franaise, by 
St. Saeans, North Sea Overture 
by Ralph Hermann, and Echo 
Waltz (Coronet Trio) written by
the dub was inactive, but in 1947 Edwin Franko Goldman, originait returned to put on a show call- j tr of the famous Goldman Band.
ed Rock n Riot, which was one 
of the best productions up to that 
time. In 1954 the name of the 
club was again changed to 
Scotch and Soda Productions.
The earlier shows were pre
sented in Pittsburghs Carnrgie 
Music Hall, but in recent years-ton, 
[Continued on page 8] 1
Pieces selected and conducted 
by Colonel Santelmann will in
clude Rumbalero, South Ameri
can rhythmic novelty, excerts 
from the opera "Andre Chenier 
by Umberto Giordano, Legend a 
contemporary work by Paul Cres" Action Front a German 
I Continued on page 71
Claude Thornhill
Jazz Specialist
played by Thornhill and Co., will 
soon be heard over WRCT.
Sauter-Finegan Saturday
For the big ball on Saturday 
night, the Sauter-Finegan Orches
tra will take over the Gym, where 
their well-known special effects, 
delivered by 22 pieces, are sure to 
be easily heard by all. Their line
up includes three trumpets, three 
trombowies, five saxes (doubled 
with flutes), a piccolo, oboe, Eng[Continued on page 81

---------------------------------------------------

^agre 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 10, 1956
Blum Awards
The Blum Awards were pre
sented on March 28 to several of 
the junior architects at the an 
nual Blum Blast. The Blum 
Awards were given by the Blum 
Company, manufacturers of alu
minum fixtures, for the staircase 
design in which the Blum pro
ducts were best used.
The first award of $50 was won 
by Calvin Wazenegger, the second 
was won by Delbert Highlands, 
and the third by Albert Walters. 
Honorable mentions were given to 
John Yoders and William Pleva.
The award presentation high
lighted the gay evening in the 
sacred drafting rooms. The music 
was supplied by the Theta XI 
combo, and the amusements were 
supplied by the architecture stu
dents and faculty. The entire party 
was given by the Blum Company 
to the prospective architects and 
was run under the management 
of the A.I.A. It has been suggest
ed that such evenings should be
come a weekly diversion and a 
regular part of the architecture 
schedule.
YMCA Elections
The spring meeting of the 
YMCA Council, which Is made up 
of all voting members of the 
YMCA at Tech, will meet on Sun
day, April 15, at 3:00 p.m. in Can
terbury House.
The annual election of officers 
will take place at fhis time, as 
well as the hearing of reports 
from the cabinet, the committee of 
management, and the branch ex
ecutive.
The report of the Nominating 
Committee lists^ the following 
nominees; president: Morgan Ed
wards, Bob Marik; vice president: 
Bob French, Don Tellalian; sec
retary: Chuck Davis, Steve Row
ley; treasurer: Mike Ban, Wes 
Kasonic; faculty members of com
mittee of management: Jack
Johnson; Gaylord Penney, Tru
man Kohmann; representative of 
clergy on committee of manage
ment: The Reverend Hugh Clark.
Camp Counseling
The first full session of the 
YWCA Camp Counseling Course 
will be held Thursday afternoon 
at 4:30 in the Carnegie Union. The 
course will run for three weeks 
with both theory and actual prac
tice in each session.
It is still possible for a .few 
more registrants to enter the 
course by calling the YWCA of
fice in the Union. Miss Gillespie, 
director of the course, has offer
ed personal help in making appli
cations for counseling in several 
regions of the country for stu
dents taking the course.
Bands
The nations best bands and out
standing band directors will con
vene here as guests of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, March 6 
through 9, 1957. Composers, ar
rangers, publishers, and instru
ment manufacturers will come to 
Pittsburgh from all over the 
country for the annual convention 
of the American Bandmasters As
sociation.
Director of the Air Force bands 
and president of the American 
Band Masters Association, Col. 
George S. Howard, is in Pitts
burgh today conferring with the 
convention host chairman, George 
Reynolds, director of the TechKiltie Band, to look over Pitts
burgh facilities and plan the big 
events for next March.
Plans include a number of pub
lic performances by major serv
ice, university and college bands. 
New innovations in band music, 
works to be published and special
ly written material will be pre
miered with the composers them
selves conducting.
Paintings
A series of paintings titled 
Portrait of Alcoa will be on 
exhibition in the lobby of the Al
coa Building for two weeks be
ginning Sunday, April 8. It is the 
work of Howard L. Corner, as
sociate professor of painting and 
design at Carnegie Tech.
The water colors depict prouction facilities at many of Alu
minum Company of Americas 
operating locations in the U.S. 
They show bauxite mining, alu
minum smelting fabricating and 
other scenes.
The exhibit is open to the pub
lic until 10 p.m. each day, in
cluding weekends, through April 
20.
Y Series
A forum series on courtship 
and marriage is being sponsored 
for all students of Carnegie Tech 
by the campus YMCA and YWCA 
for the next three Sunday eve
nings in the Blue Room of Morewood Gardens. Faith and Sex 
What Do They Contribute to 
Each Other? is the topic for the 
speech and discussion led by 
Chaplain Luther Harshbarger who 
will be on the campus for two 
days to meet student groups.
Other topics in the series are 
If You Marry Outside Your 
Faith, a panel and discussion, 
and Making Marriage Work, 
which will deal primarily with 
ways to work out problems and 
differences during courtship and 
marriage. Mrs. Eva Bronner open
ed the series last Sunday with a 
film-forum on What Do I Want 
in a Mate?
The supper forum begins at 
5:00 p.m. for those who wish to 
eat in Morewood and at 5:45 for 
any who wish to come only for 
the program.
Discussion Topic 
And Recreation Set 
For Y Retreat
The Reverend Richard Gary, 
Assistant rector of Trinity 
Church (Episcopal) in Washing
ton, D.C., will be the leader of 
the spring retreat sponsored by 
the YMCA and YWCA on April 
21 and 22 at the new Deer Valley 
Lodge in Somerset County.
This retreat has a dual purpose. 
First, it will provide an opportun
ity for a group of students to 
study and discuss the problem 
of conformity as it touches all 
our lives. During the retreat an 
examination will be made of the 
pressure for conformity in our 
role as members of groups; for 
conformity to others values and 
morals; for conformity in politi
cal and socio-economic ideas.
Second, the retreat will provide 
a chance fqr a weekend of fun 
and relaxation in a lovely spot 
in the mountains of Southern 
Pennsylvania. Camp Deer Valley 
has recently been developed by 
the Pittsburgh YMCA. It consists 
of 500 acres of wooded mountain
land with a 150 acre lake. It is 
located near the summit of Mount 
Davis, the highest mountain in 
Pennsylvania. Plenty of time will 
be allowed in the schedule of the 
retreat for recreational activities 
such as boating, canoeing, hiking, 
and square dancing.
Learned Leader
The Reverend Gary is a grffauate of Phillips University and 
Yale University Divinity School. 
He has had graduate study in 
economics and political science at 
the London School of Economics 
and the University of Nebraska. 
He has been a minister to students 
at the University of Nebraska 
and spent one yeiar in a Con
gregational Mission Church in the 
East End of London.
All interested students are En
couraged to contact the Y of
fice in the Carnegie Union, or any 
YMCA or YWCA cabinet mem
ber. The group will leave Pitts
burgh at noon on Saturday, April 
21, and will return Sunday after
noon. Transportation will be pro
vided. The cost for the weekend 
will be $6.00. The chairmen of 
the Retreat Planning Committee 
are Bob French and Janet Kirsckg. 
ler.
electrical  mechanical
ENGINEERS
PHYSICISTS
MATHEMATICIANS
bachelor  master  doctor
research development 
field engineering 
in
computation communication 
instrumentation
EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS WILL BE 
CONDUCTED...
APRIL 16, 1956
0.
PLEASE APPLY THROUGH 
YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
Openings at All Locations
DIVISION OF SPERRY RAND CORPORATION
230C \V. Allegheny Ave. 
Philadelphia, Pa.
1902 W. Minnehaha Ave. 
St. Paul W4, Minn.
Wilson Ave. 
South Norwalk, Conn.
Important announcement for the graduating
E.E. and M.E.
A JACK & HEINTZ REPRESENTATIVE 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
Next Tuesday, April 17th
Check your Placement Office NOW for complete 
information concerning interview date and time!
Jack & Heintz, Inc., a distinguished manufacturer of 
accessory equipment for commercial and military 
aviation, is looking for young engineers to specialize 
in research, design and development.
To E. E.s and M. E.s interested in a promising future, 
the Jack & Heintz engineering organization offers 
unusual opportunities:
 Youll work on unique concepts of electrical, me
chanical, pneumatic and hydraulic devices for aircraft 
power generation, control, regulation and actuation.
 Youll have a position of responsibility with maximum 
creative latitude.
 Youll gain recognition and professional prominence 
in the worlds fastest growing industry.
 While you work, you can study. Greater Cleveland 
has five colleges: Baldwin-Wallace College; Case 
Institute of Technology; Fenn College; John Carroll 
University; and Western Reserve University. Advanced 
experience gained on the job, along with a liberal 
program of J&H financial aid, makes it possible for 
you to win your M.S. and Ph.D.
Jack & Heintz also has a need for a limited number of 
men with majors in industrial engineering, engineering 
administration, aeronautical engineering, accounting 
and industrial management.
ACT NOW! Contact your Placement Office for a Jack & Heintz Interview!
$


---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April li, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPaffe S
Senator Humphrey Temple, Fifth Avenue and DevonHubert S. Humphrey, junior | shire Street. His subject wijl be
senator from Minnesota, will 
speak at the annual open forum 
to be held Wednesday evening,
American Foreign Policy. The 
talk scheduled to begin at 8:30 
p.m. and is open to the public. 
The forum is sponsored by the
April 25, at the Rodef Shalom Junior Congregation.
MONEY ISNT EVERYTHING
- I have asked the makers of Philip Morris  an enterprising 
and aggressive group of men; yet at the same time warm and 
lovable; though not without acumen, perspicacity, and drive; 
which does not, however, mask their essential greatheartedness; 
a quality evident to all who have ever enjoyed the beneficence and 
gentleness of their wares; I refer, of course, to Philip Morris 
Cigarettes, a smoke fashioned with such loving care and ten
dered with such kind regard that these old eyes grow misty when
I think upon it - I have asked, I say, the makers of Philip Morris
 that aggregate of shrewd but kindly tobacconists, that covey 
of enlightened Merry Andrews, that cluster of good souls bound 
together by the profit motive and an unflagging determination 
 to provide all America with a cigarette forever gentle and 
eternally pleasing  I have asked, I say, the makers of Philip 
Morris whether I might use todays column to take up the 
controversial question: Should a coed share expenses on a date?
Yes, said the makers simply. We all embraced then and 
squeezed each other and exchanged brave smiles, and if our 
eyes were a trifle moist, who can blame us? 
To the topic then: Should a coed share expenses on a date? I 
think I can best answer the question by citing the following 
typical case:
O Poseidon Nebenzal, a student at Oklahoma A and M, majoring 
in hides and tallow, fell wildly in love with Mary Ellen Flange, 
a flax weevil major at the'same school. His love, he had reason 
to believe from Mary Ellens sidelong glances and maidenly 
flushes, was not entirely unrequited, and by and by he mustered
'.//S Love maturely Utltlfiicc/
Will
I
up enough courage to ask her the all-important question: 
you wear my 4-H pin?
Yes, she said simply. They embraced then and squeezed 
each other and exchanged brave smiles, and if .their eyes wei'e 
a trifle moist, who can blame them?
For a time things went swimmingly. Then a cloud appeared. 
Mary Ellen, it seems, was a rich girl and accustomed to costly 
pleasures. Poseidon was bone-poor and he quickly ran out of 
money. Unable to take Mary Ellen to the posh places she fancied 
and too proud to tell her the reason, he turned surly and filll of 
melancholy. Senseless, violent quarrels developed. Soon it ap
peared that the romance, so promising at the beginning, was 
headed for a breakup, but at the last moment, Poseidon man
aged to blurt out the truth.
Oh, beloved agrarian! cried Mary Ellen, grappling him 
close. Oh, proud husbandman! Oh, foolish reaper! Why have 
you not told me before? I have plenty of money, and I will con
tribute according to my ability.
Poseidon, of course, protested, but she finally persuaded him 
of the wisdom of her course. From then on they split all ex
penses according to their incomes. Rather than embarrass 
Poseidon by handing him money in public, a joint bank account 
was set up to allow him to write checks. Into this account each 
week they faithfully deposited their respective allowances  35 
cents from Poseidon; $2300 from Mary Ellen.
And it worked fine! Gone was all the arguing and bickering. 
They were happy  truly happy! And whats more, when they 
graduated they had a nice little nest egg  eight million dollars
 with which to furnish a lovely apartment in Lubbock, Texas, 
where today they operate the local laundromat.
So you see? You too can salvage your failing romance if you 
will only adopt a healthy, sensible attitude toward money.Max Shulman. 195i 
Lucre is no obstacle when it comes to Philip Morris. Popular prices 9till prevail for this, America's gentle cigarette, whose makers bring 
you this column every week. j
Music
For the first time in Pittsburghs 
history, a cooperative effort be
tween, the Pittsburgh Symphony, 
the Pittsburgh New Friends of 
Music, the Junior New Friends, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Duquesne University, the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, Mt. Mercy Col
lege, and Chatham College will 
take place, in the form of a Mo
zart Festival, honoring the 200th 
Anniversary of Mozarts birth in 
Salzburg, Jan. 27, 1756.
A series of concerts, which be
gan April 2, is being given at 
Carnegie Music Hall, Syria 
Mosque, and Mt. Mercy College, 
featuring performances of cham
ber music, opei'atic works, and 
orchestral selections of the fa
mous Austrian composer.
Three More Concerts
An all-college presentation of 
Mozarts Requiem Mass will be 
given Tuesday, April 10, at Car
negie Music Hall, featuring four 
outstanding student soloists, and 
an all-college chorus and orches
tra under the baton of William 
Steinberg. This event will be open 
to the public.
Wednesday evening, April 18, 
will be another date in the all
college series of concerts, featur
ing selected scenes from The 
Marriage of Figaro, The Impre
sario, and other operatic works, 
to be presented free to the public 
in Antonian Hall, at Mt. Mercy 
College.
Symphony Season Ends
Faculty members from the five 
college music departments will 
combine to offer the final concert 
of the Festival on April 20 at 
Carnegie Music Hall, when a pre
sentation of miscellaneous cham
ber works will be performed, in
cluding the G Minor Piano Quar
tet,, the String Quartet in D Mi
nor, and the Trio in E-fiat Major 
for Clarinet, Viola, and Piano. The 
Festival will close with the free 
concert, and the season of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
will also be at an end.
As is the case all oyer the 
world, Mozart is being honored by 
special performances of his works 
which numbered more than seven 
hundred at the time of his death 
There are still discoveries, occa
sionally, of music not previously 
recorded in Mozarts catalog, and 
which have probably never been 
performed in the entire time since 
they were written.
Playhouse
The current offering of the 
Pittsburgh Playhouses Hamlet 
Street Theater is this seasons 
Broadway comedy success, A 
Roomful of Roses which re
cently opened under the direction 
of Charles Matthews.
The plot of A Roomful of 
Roses concerns a young girl of 
divorced parents who is visiting 
her mother for the first time in 
eight years. The main action of 
the play deals with the guiltstricken mothers attempts to re
gain her daughters love.
With the help of two neighbor
ing teenagers, who are responsible 
for much of the plays tender 
humor, the lonely disillusioned 
girl decides to remain with her 
mother.
Marcella Feiner and Carol Rein
hardt share top honors in the 
roles of mother and daughter, re
spectively. Robert Cleeland, 
June Buzzelli, Alfreda Barrow, 
David Rosenzweig, Judy Cohen, 
George Kohut, and Arthur Budin 
are featured in the cast.
The next attraction in the Craft 
Avenue Theater will be the or
iginal musical revue, Whats The 
Rush? set for a four week run
beginning Saturday, April 14. 
Tickets for both shows are now 
on sale and can be reserved by 
calling MAyflower 1-4445.
YM & WHA
On Wednesday evening, April
11 at 8:30 p.m. at the YM&WHA, 
the Musical Society will present 
a most exciting local artist, Anna 
Maria Armocida, pianist. Miss 
Armocida packs more fire and 
verve in her ten small fingers than 
any but the most major of the 
world pianists, and amazes as 
well as delights her audiences 
with her music and musicianship. 
Single registrations are available 
in advance or at the box-office on 
the evening of the concert.
T echnical
The Carnegie Technical of
fice will be open every Friday 
evening from 7:00 to 8:30 
oclock. Staff members will be 
at the office on the third floor 
of the Carnegie Union to talk 
to anyone interested in work
ing on the magazine.
ENGINEERS
MECHANICALELECTRICALCHEMICAL 
CIVIL  ARCHITECTURAL
ANCHOR HOCKING
OFFERS
EXCELLENT CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
Our continuing expansion and diversification means 
CHALLENGING ENGINEERING ASSIGNMENTS
There will be a represenative on campus April 11. 
Arrange for an interview through your Placement Office.
ANCHOR HOCKING GLASS CORPORATION
THE MOST FAMOUS NAME IN GLASS 
LANCASTER, OHIO
Obviously, 
he makes the grade
We dont mean just at exam 
time, either. The comfort
conscious guy can tell at a glance 
that these smart Arrow gingham 
shirts are the light-weights that 
make warm weather a breeze. 
The medium-spread collar and 
fresh patterns are just right, alone 
or with a casual jacket. Arrow 
ginghams, in a variety of fine 
patterns are only $5.95.
-ARROWCASUAL WEAR 
first in fashion
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARDS MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. - Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Pa 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 1, 1956
SCOT TAR.TAN A: 
TECHNICAL CLAj 
THISTLE WRCT 
SCOTCH 'N' SODA 
STUDENT COUNC 
KILTIE BAND CA, 
FRATERNITIES 
HONORAR
AR*THET\C STUDENT: ACTIVITIEl-S ? RIDICULOUS.' 
THERE ARE NO ACTIVITIES ON THIS CAMfV6<
Editorial
Apathy Again
On page eight in this issue, there ap
pears an announcement that the new Student 
Council constitution will be published in 
next weeks issue. This is the beginning of 
a new and more workable plan for Tech stu
dent government, but the few people who 
have been most concerned with it and most 
interested in making it work are going to 
graduate in two months, and if some under
class interest isnt generated, the new plan 
will be just so much wasted effort.
There has been a need for a widespread 
explanation of the plan; this is the reason it 
is going to be published in its unexpurgated 
entirety. As evidence of the abnormal inter
est in the new constitution, the Tartan re
ceived an unprecedented letter from a stu
dent wondering where he could secure more 
information about it.
Since this matter of the constitution has 
brought it to mind, we are about due for an
other whack at student apathy. This is one 
of the few editorial topics remaining essen
tially unchanged throughout the Tartans 49
years of existence. Whether repetition does any good or not ^ rpi Cl-*1 rTy 1 1
is beginning to be doubtful, because there still are apathetic X ilCi ^JXl)0 i. 3*)lG
students who dont care about anything except the almighty 
science. Therefore this discussion will ignore apathy toward 
world news, local news, Oakland culture, and campus cul
ture, and concentrate exclusively on apathy toward activities.
Just as Student Council needs student support, so does 
the Tartan, the Thistle, Scotch n Soda, WRCT, and every 
other student organization. The most active members of or
ganizations are naturally the upperclassmen, since they have 
the experience, but underclassmen are necessary or. there 
wont be any experienced upperclassmen in a year or two.
People come here to school with the attitude that they 
will wait a while before getting into activities. At the end 
of a while, they wait a little longer because they dont 
know how to go about getting in an organization, or else 
they are too concerned with more pressing matters, like the 
problems due tomorrow. Pretty soon they are juniors or 
seniors and they may get a letter from a departmental or 
scholastic honorary. But, although they try, they dont get 
called because they dont have any campus activities. This 
is how the complaint gets started that you have to be in 
organizations in order to get in others.
The business world cant consider just academic records 
when hiring college graduates. They are interested in other 
qualities, too, like how they get along with people, both as 
workers and leaders. Therefore, it would seem to be to 
everyones advantage to get interested in at least one extra
curricular activity while they are freshmen or sophomores, so 
that they will not be sorry later that they had not done so.
The organizations need members about this time of year when 
seniors are preparing to leave and new officers are taking 
over.
Naturally there are organizations that are primarily for 
upperclassmen, and those that only choose new members 
who are active in other organizations, but there are many 
activities begging for underclass members who will take an 
active interest and who will be the leaders in a year or two.
The new Student Council is only one of them.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13. Pa. Telephone 
MUseum 2-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9846, for advertising and subscription
rates call SC hen ley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech* 
nology. Pittsburgh 13. Pa.
Mitw-is-Cklef .............................................................................Robert Russel)
Baslness Manager .............................................................................Vic Shiry
Mews Editer.......................................................................................................................Mario King
arts Bitter...................................................................................................Tom Wright
Cepy Editor.......................................................................................................... Richard Fox
Features Editor........................................................................................................Stephanie Mackay
Assistant Business ManagerMarty Ostroff. Advertising ManagerBob Sorkin. Circulation ManagerHarley Bern bach. ReportersEvelyn Alessio, Marlene Daeh- nert, Sally Day, Lynn Porter Carman, Betsy Kuhn, En Harriet Chang, Pat Mitchell, Anne Mehler, Lois Griffin, Barbara Hoenstine, Ann Forest, Joan Coprich, 
Jo Todes. Anna Hatzfeld, Susie Stryker, Grayce McAllister, Fay Fisher, Carol Sooy, Nancie Redpath, Gene Anderson, Bob Jack, AJ Federowicz. Arthur Marino,
Entered as second clasa matter on Octor>er 4. 1907. at the Post Office at Pittsburgh. Pa., under act of March 3. 187 Accepted for mailing at special 
rates of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1923.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented (or national advertising by National Advertising, Ine. College
per year.
By Marshall R. Pihl
Last week, at the end of this column. I referred 
to Freshman Week as a farce. I was wrong. Its 
worse than that. Its a negative quantity of sorts. 
And thats exactly what its effect is upon the in
coming freshmen. ,
When a newcomer to this campus sees us, the 
old-timers, treat the event as lightly as we do; how 
can we expect any other reaction from them. They 
see it in the same light. The end result: worse than 
no Freshman Week at all.
The wearing of dinks has got to be enforced. 
Freshmen have got to feel honored to be a student 
at Carnegie Tech. They have got to learn some 
traditions about the place that they respect. And 
its our job to see that this comes about.* * *
Dorm Council held a dinner dance last Satur
day night. The tickets cost $2.00. Why was there 
the two-dollar tariff? Dorm Council has $2.500.00 
in the bank to spend from now til June.
I see absolutely no reason for that two-buck 
charge. But now that Dorm Council still has that 
money in the bank, it shouldnt just rot there. 
There are a lot of jobs that money could do. Apiong 
them: fix up the facilities in the Donner Hall dark 
room, overhaul the pool tables in Donner Hall, 
and generally make the money work for the stu
dents. '* * *
There wont be another Scot this year. No, it 
hasnt been banned. But it might as well have 
been. There just wont be any money forthcoming 
for the next issue that was to be. This means that 
Hiss-Poo was the last this year. And, judging from 
the level of the humor in that issue, it might be 
well for them to have a vacation.* * *
Little Quickies: I, me, Marsh Pihl, lent my 
suitcase to somebody. I dont remember who . . . 
do you?. . . Dont miss the Kiltie Band Spring Con
cert this Wednesday, itll be a screamer . . . Joe 
Shweck is pregnant.* * * *
Under the Table . . . Pancho, the Mexican Rattle
snake and author of Nuts and Onions in this paper 
isnt very original . . . He seems to get his material 
from this column. Note his comments about WRCT 
Radio-controlled Buggy. You read it here first . . . 
But Panchos happy in his own quiet way and the 
quieter, the better.
Letters
Apathy Hurrah!
Editor, the Tartan:
Recently, in various campus dungeons, there 
have been clandestine meetings of small groups of 
social reformers who meet under the pretext of 
attacking the problem of student apathy. Al
though these radicals have not defined their oh^ 
jectives clearly, I shall attempt to do so, and to 
defend the position of the apathetic students. Ap
parently these agitators feel that a very signi
ficant portion of the campus population is not con
cerned with the action of more than several small 
cliques (consisting of friends or department).
Now I ask, why should we be concerned? Is 
there any reason why we should consider the cam
pus society as important? Should we care that 
there are few valuable campus traditions, that there 
is no school spirit? Should it bother us that v 
dont read newspapers, listen to news programs 
in short, that we dont know what is going on in 
the rest of the world? Why should we care how 
other people think? Why should we work with 
others in activities? Summing it up, why should 
we care about anything except learning how to 
perform adequately the specialized function that 
our department is actually attempting to teach us?
We believe that the handful of reformers is a 
misguided idealistic band of dreamers, deceived by 
the administration's propaganda about the Ca4) 
negie Plan (note that the administration has not 
been similarly deceived). We, the realists, know 
that this is an age of specializationthe industry, 
society, or the government will take care of us if 
we only do our jobs as chemists, musicians, secre
taries. Consequently, we are assured that the re
form will collapse when the quixotic reformers be
come aware of the utter futility of romantic gestures 
in the real world of today. Apathy will triumph!
An Apathetic Studer^
WRCT This Week
Tuesday, April 107:30 p.m.Record Collector. 
Tech students present their private record collec
tions.
Wednesday, April 117:30 p.m.The Mel Haydn 
Ensemble. A remop of bebop.
Thursday, April 129:00 p.m.The finest in 
classical music with Don Kest on Music of the 
Masters.
Friday, April 137:30 p.m.Latest campus hap
penings reviewed on Chewin the Fat with Pat.
Saturday, April 146:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m.Radio 
Merrimac, a Williams-Pihl production, sails along 
on nine hours of pure gobbled egoot.
Sunday, April 154:00 p.m.Sue Mallinger spins 
some semi-classical discs for your afternoon en
joyment on Sunday Pops Concert.
Monday, April 1610:00 p.m.Career Hour. 
Classical music for late evening studying.
Buy A Thistle
Editor:, the Tartan:
For the past three years the circulation of the 
Thistle yearbook has dropped from 1500 to 900 
subscriptions. This decrease in interest and sup
port from the student body may be due to a gen
eral lack of interest in Tech itself or perhaps from 
poor yearbooks in the past. Unfortunately, we 
have arrived at the point where we must eitty^ 
increase our subscription rates or receive better 
support from the students. This year the Thistle 
staff is going to put out one of the finest yearbooks 
that Tech has ever seen, and we have good reason 
to: this will be the fiftieth edition of the Thistle, 
so you can be sure it isnt one to pass up.
In order to put out the best yearbook possible 
we have gone to the finest yearbook publisher we 
could find, The Taylor Publishing Company of Dal
las, Texas. I recently had the privilege of visiting 
their modern plant and, speaking from a printer^ 
point of view, they have the most modern method 
and equipment there is to enable to publish over 
000 high school and college books a year. They 
are the largest publishers of yearbooks in the world 
and have printed the Ohio State Makioj*. an AllAmerican rated yearbook, for many years. We of 
the Thistle staff feel that this year the book will 
not contain the gross errors that-it did last year.
Since the staff is going all out to design the 
best book we have ever had, and we have en
listed the best yearbook publisher we could finofV 
we feel that the students should help us complete 
what we are doing for them. There are only 00 
yearbook subscriptions left for this year, and no 
more. We have contracted for a definite number 
of books and at this late date the number cannot 
be increased. The books are now being sold on a 
first come, first served basis in Skibo. In this years 
book some new features have been added such as 
several four-color pictures of landmarks on cam
pus, and a message from President Warner to thj 
students concerning some of the plans for the fv 
ture of Carnegie Tech.
Five dollars is all you pay for a book that costs 
us ten dollars to publish, and it is one of the few 
books that will increase in value as time goes pn.
Sincerely,
Gene Burke 
Thistle Editor. 
the
tub
Andy Wonders .  .
When the management of Skibo will figure oili 
a way to seat everyone at lunch time.
* * *
When Carnegie Tech will start progressing als, 
before Pitt buys Tech?* * ?
When the Mens Gym lockers will lose their
B.O. aroma.* * *
When all of the departments will hand out 
rating sheets en the instructors for the students t 
fill in. Whats the matter, are they afraid, or don 
they cate bow the instructors are doing?
i

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 1, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANFuc 5
TRACK COACH
Winfield Giguere, here tuning the coils of an IF strip on an experimental 
FM receiver that uses the new high-frequency transistor.
P^l ATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
TRADE-MARK
offers career opportunities for the
MEN OF 56
ENGINEERS
CHEMISTS
PHYSICISTS
Ceramic  Chemical  Civil 
Electrical  Industrial 
Mechanical  Metallurgical
Americas foremost manufacturer of carbon and graphite 
electrodes and anodes, impervious ^graphite, brushes for 
motors and generators, dr^ cells and flashlights, arc carbons 
and a wide variety of other industrial products offers posi
tions to B.S. and M.S. graduates in the fields listed above. 
^ Positions are available at National Carbon Companys
15 factories, located in the following states: Iowa, New York, 
North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, West Virginia and Ver
mont and throughout the country in our sales organization.
Interesting, rewarding careers in research, process and 
product development, production and methods engineering, 
product and process control, machine development, plant 
engineering and sales. A National Carbon representative 
will be on campus 
APRIL 11 ond 12
* NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
A Division of 
Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation
EXCLCNTA
TTADC-MARKSPRESTONE
BRAND
CharleCsW; ltaoC,r dmciumngn.v t,CbylrrwrBATTERIES
Prospects For ComingPatronize Our Advertisers
Bernif Siegel clears 34i4_ feet In practice jump against 
Techs pole vaulters.
Our business is new ideas, new developments
Winfield J. Giguere, or Giggs as he is 
known, graduated in 1954 from the Uni
versity of New Hampshire with a B.S. 
in Electrical Engineering. Shortly after 
graduation he joined Bell Telephone Lab
oratories in Murray Hill, New Jersey.
Experience has come my way in a 
hurry, says Giggs. Ive worked on 
carrier system amplifiers, speech trans
mission problems, and experimental 
types of coaxial cable. The Labs are al
ways pushing ahead, trying new ideas, 
exploring new developments.
For example, right now Im working 
with the transistor that smashed a fre
quency barrier. This new transistor has 
a cut-off frequency of at least 500 me and 
can be used to amplify 2500 separate 
telephone conversations simultaneously. 
It will make possible broadband, highfrequency amplification in many fields 
using subminiature components.
.There are thousands of other fascinat
ing projects underway at the Bell Labs. 
You see, at the Labs our business is new 
ideas, new developments, and thats one 
reason why I like working here. Its ex
citing. If there are better ways to commu
nicate, you can bet the Labs are looking 
for them.
Winfield Giguere is typical of the many young men 
who are finding careers in Bell Telephone Labo
ratories. Many other career opportunities exist in 
the Bell Telephone Companies, Western Electric 
and Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer 
has more information about these companies.
Bell
Telephon
System
Golf Tryouts
Tryouts for the golf team 
will be held Friday, April 13, 
and Tuesday, April 17. Those 
interested should assemble in 
front of the gym on each of 
these days, at 12:30 p.m.
Track Season Bright
The meet this week was rained out and so the boys will have 
to pass up the Jeannette Harriers for the opening warm up of the 
Thinclads. This was to be an off-the-record meet to give our boys 
|; chance to warm up in competition before the big one againt Slip
pery Rock on the fourteenth of^-------------------------------------------------
April.
However, Coach Carmans boys 
did have a meeting during the 
week at which time they elected 
senior Jack Recker as captain of 
the field events and juniors Dick 
Swaney and Bill Bryant captains of 
the running events. Jack Recker is 
the senior shot putter on the team, 
-V'nd he is showing great improvemnt after being out for the team 
only one year. Both Swaney and 
Bryant are expected to be stal
warts for the thinclads this year. 
Dick Swaney runs the half and 
quarter miles and is the anchor 
man on the mile relay team. Bill 
Bryant runs both the mile and 
two mile events for the Tartans. 
His brother Larry also participates 
in the same events.
Coach Carman is looking for
ward to a good season. One of 
their toughest meets is going to 
be the one coming up with Slip
pery Rock. Westminster also will 
prove to be a thorn in the side, for 
it was that group that gave Tech
its first defeat in four years when 
the two teams met at Westminster 
last year.
With the loss of Ward Jones, the 
Tartan thinclads will be weaker 
in the field events. The loss of 
such track stalwarts as Muller 
"and Gillies makes the running 
events a little weaker. We have 
some fine up and coming sopho
mores such as the Georgi? Flash 
Frank Smith, and John Mihm. The 
Tartans will have high hopes for 
the coming season.
The return of Arnie Olds from 
the Army will also mean a boost 
for the thinclads in the long dist
ance events. Before his Army ten
ure he was Bob Carmans running 
mate in the mile and two mile 
events. At the time, both were 
undergraduates and frequently fin
ished one-two for Tech.
Other top contributors to the 
Tech cause will most likely be Eric 
Ottervik and Bill Whitman.
At District Meet
In addition to working on his 
doctoral thesis in physics and 
coaching the Tartan thinclads, 
Bob Carman also finds time to 
compete in the local track events.
Bob was a stellar track man in 
high school and ran distance for 
Tech in his undergraduate days. 
Recently he turned in his finest 
performance to date when he won 
both the mile and two mile events 
in the AAU district meet. Car
man cracked the local mile * re
cord by eight tenths of a second, 
winning in 4:19.8, and took the 
two mile in 9:44.6 This was no 
small feat, considering the quality 
of his competition. Congratula
tions Bob, and may your proteges 
fare as well.
So, said the wife, at four in 
the morning you finally come 
home. At last you realized that 
home is the best place.
Its not that, said the husband. 
Its the only place open.
A Campus-to-Career Case History

---------------------------------------------------

Page eCARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 10, 195
TortcomeBy TOM BIEG
Pittsburgh might be said to be suffering an Indian winter this 
year, and spring sporting events have been about as common as 
leaves on the trees, fountains in front of Morewood, and the Skibo 
open-air bridge club.
Undaunted, track coach Bob Carmans weather-proof squad hasbeen practicing hard at the Pitt Field House and even on the side
walks around Tech when the bowl has been too swampy, working 
into mid-season form for the first meet, with the Jeannette Harriers 
club. This was washed out, of course, last Saturday, but better luck 
is hoped for when the thin-clads journey to face the Slippery Rock 
Teachers this Saturday, April 14. <
The varsity tennis season begins April 21 and team members 
and hopefuls have been on the courts every dry day. Coach Frank 
Moses has had little opportunity to look over his newcomers, since 
the intramural tournament has yet to b^ finished and the varsity 
candidate contest is also in need of better weather.. *
Only the basketball team has been practicing consistently. In 
the annual spring practice session Mel Cratsley is working to select 
next season's varsity quintet and develop a winning offense with the 
new cagers.
On the intramural scene too, the monsoon season is taking its 
toll. Only two of six soccer days have seen action, and buggy push
ing is off to a late start. But on clear nights the traffic of buggies, 
pushers, and timers resembles Forbes and Morewood at 8:30 long 
into the wee hours. Intramural fans are looking forward to a com
bined soccer and softball season in the spring.
CHADWICK record *corp.
ORDER BY MAIL AT LOW PRICES
WESTMINSTER
WAX and 5000 series
FACTORY FRESH 
RECORDSSWN series $2.98 
WWN series $3.85
our
priceAT
REDUCED PRICES
DIAMOND NEEDLES - 40% OFF LIST
per 
record 
original list 
price $5.95
LIST
$4.98CAPITOL MGM*
RCA VICTOR EPIC*
LONDON* DECCA*
COLUMBIA CL
MERCURY OPERAS AND SHOW TUNES $3.50COLUMBIA ML*
98
OURPRICE
FOR MAILING: 1st record 35*, 20f for each additional. NO CHARGE for packing. All records shipped in polyethylene sleeves.
LIST UP TO $4.98
LHMV's 
VANGUARD 
BACH GUILD 
OPERAS AND SHOW TUNES
OURPRICE
WRITE FOR COMPLETE ANGEL RECORD CATALOG
CHADWICK
.v  record cor p.
1123 Broadway New York 10f N.Y.
Acuon in one oi iew soccer games piayea tnus iar.
Soccer was the only IM activity 
last week, as the two leagues 
swung into action. Kappa Sig tied 
the Obelisks, 2-2, Phi Kap and the 
Grads battled to a scoreless tie, 
the Independents topped the 
Architects 2-1, Pi Kappa Alpha 
beat the Independents 2-1, and a 
powerful Beta Sigma Rho squad 
submerged Kappa Sig by 7-1. Our 
April showers were busily bring
ing May flowers on Friday, so the 
games scheduled for that day 
must be played off at a later date.
Although the season is just be
ginning, the top teams stand out 
already. Little will be heard from 
last years finalists the Orientals 
and Citcom. The teams which are 
replacing them at the top of the 
heap are Phi Kappa and the 
Grads in the Skibo league, and 
Pi Kappa Alpha and Beta Sigma 
Rho in the Kiltie league. The 
fiercest game to date was the 
scoreless tie between Phi Kap
Attention
Handball and chess are 
starting this week, and sev
eral entries will soon be due 
for other sports. Those teams 
wishing to enter softball, 
horseshoes, and the swimming 
meet should get their rosters 
ready.
and the Grads. The powerful 
Grad offense was thwarted time 
after time by a scrappy Phi Kap 
defense. Barring the decimation 
of a leader by some plague, the 
above four squads can be ex
pected to enter the playoffs.
Plank Jousting
The second plank jousting 
meeting will be held at 4:30 
on Thursday, April 12 at the 
Alpha Tau Omega house. All 
those interested please attend.
Sports Schedule
Track
Apr. 14Slippery Rock 
Apr. 18W. & J.
Apr. 21Case (H)
Apr. 24Westminster (H)
Apr. 26Geneva
Tennis 
Apr. 21Duquesne (H)
Apr. 25Grove City 
Apr. 28West Virginia 
Apr. 30Duquesne 
Go If
Apr. 20West Virginia (H) >
Apr. 24Pitt (H)
Apr. 27Geneva
ORDER YOUR
E.M THISTLE
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, THURSDAY, APRIL 12. AND FRIDAY the 13th 
SKIBO11:30-1:00 MOREWOOD GARDENS5:00-6:30
Soccer League Begins Play In Mud
L ONAERR DNS' HN PNC S'WI KWHTC4SS40
WINSTON k
 As the most popular new brand in cigarette history, Winston gives 
college smokers something special. Its flavor  the full, rich, tobacco flavor 
you want in a cigarette. Along with finer flavor, Winston also brings you 
a finer filter that works so well the flavor really gets through. Try Winston!
WINSTON
the, eaMj-dmwiuq
Four Teams A re 
Outstanding
iterMOL.0* TOSACCO CO.. , M. C,

---------------------------------------------------

#Tuesday, April Id, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
-,
^CRNEGki/ \ \ ft MV/ /
il
Kr AUMJV\y 
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ... ...................................................................................... Emily Muhic
Reporter ........................................................................... John Van Holt, Jr.
*
Newman Club Easter 
Orphans Party Held
On Saturday March 17, 1956, Newman Club of Carnegie Tech 
together with PIFCSO members from Pitt and Mt. Mercy, enjoyed 
the cool, clear waters of the Tech swimming pool. After several hours 
of splashing, swimming, and diving, the group fathered in the Black 
Cat Lounge for rereshments. It^
was a pleasant evening of renew
ing old acquaintances and meeting 
new ones. Lee Green was busy 
snapping pictures during the festivities. Miss Dolores Neff was in 
C1 charge of the decorations which 
were in keeping with St. Pat
ricks Day.
On Sunday evening, March 18, 
1956, the Newman Club held a 
meeting which was opened by 
President John Van Holt. Father 
Raymond Schultz, Assistant Pas
tor at St. Margarets, Greentree, 
gave an interesting talk on the 
Blessed Mother. The membersC
were sorry to hear of the death 
of Chuck Labees father.
Easter Party 
On April 8, an Easter Party
Kiltie Band
[Continued from page 1] 
march seldom heard in this coun
try and written by H. L. Blackenburg, the German counterpart of 
C^ohn Philip Sousa, and Green 
Cathedral, a tone poem by Hahn.
Knowing that it couldnt be a 
Kiltie Band Concert without Scot
tish aires, Col. Santelmann has al
so chosen the Scotch Folk Song 
Suite by Albert O. Davis. The 
finale will b^ from Dvoraks New 
World Symphony which was 
written after the composers visit 
to this country and expresses his 
impressions in contrast with those 
llfcf his native Bohemia.
The concert will close with Santelmanns Marine Corps treatment 
of Sousas Semper Fidelis, of
ficial Marine Corps March.
Tickets ($1.00 for general ad
mission and 50 cents for high 
school students) can be purchased 
at the Music Hall on the night of 
the concert.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
(?
Earn Your Master's Degree
Plan N ow ior an 
Executive Career 
in Retailing
A one-year executive development 
program open to all A.B. and 
'B.S. degree graduates with good 
undergraduate records. Curricu
lum includes executive direction 
in outstanding department stores 
in six major East and Midwest 
cities (with pay, minimum $450). 
You earn your Master's Degree 
at the same time. Co-ed. Schol
arships. G.I. approved. Gradu
ates are selectively 
placed before grad
uation. Next class 
begins Sept. 4, 1950. 
Apply now. Write 
for BULLETIN C.
SCHOOL OF 
RETAILING
UNIVERSITY OF 
PITTSBURGH
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
was held for orphans from St. 
Pauls Orphanage. April 15 will 
be an important meeting since 
there will be an election of offi
cers. All members are urged to 
attend. May 20 will be the an
nual banquet with Bishop Carroll 
as the main guest.
Miss Dolores Neff asked the 
members to send a little card or 
note to a little youngster, Michael 
Wagner, who was seriously burn
ed and is a patient in the chil
drens ward of St. Francis HospiPanic Bars
[Continued from page 1] 
from a pass key in the outside 
lock, it was necessary during their 
absence to reach up inside the 
gap to open the door from the 
inside.
Fortunately the weather was 
warm enough during the day on 
Wednesday to permit the doors 
being left open, and Wednesday 
night a night watchman was hired, 
so that the doors could be opened 
quickly in case of emergency. The 
doors could not be opened from 
the outside while the bars were 
missing, except with a pass key, 
so this makes futile that motive 
for removing them.
Wednesday night while they 
were making their rounds, the 
guards at Administration Hall dis
covered the bars in front of Dean 
Grahams office door. The culprits 
have not been found, but since 
the stolen articles have been re
turned, the issue is no longer a 
serious problem. The prank was 
considered foolish and thoughtless 
by the administration and dormi
tory officials, but pretty shrewd 
by all those who didnt think of 
doing it first.
Weekend[Continued from page 1]
again on Saturday afternoon, there 
are stunts and competition for fra
ternities, sororities and faculty 
members, and most probably the 
zaney drama department cricket 
match  which ended last year 
with the leading lady being kid
napped and carried off by an eld
erly gentleman in a wheel chair 
as teams and spectators stood by 
helplessly.
Friday night there will be a 
Claude Thornhill jazz concert in 
the gym, with those wonderful 
Gerry Mulligan arrangements. Saturday night the big Sauter-Finegan Orchestra will play em
inently danceable tunes in their 
own inimitable way for the Cor
onation ball and the long-awaited 
awards, or course, wil. tie an
nounced at intermission. Tlr rough 
all this the midway is right there, 
and still open.
Sunday morning the ferris wheel 
miraculously disappears, leaving 
nothing on the Cut but a mud 
puddle and a wisp of strav Ev
eryone sleeps a little later than 
usual in the relaxed spirit of the 
weekend, then wanders off to pic
nics, and when the cut is ai. dis
mantled, Carnival is reallj, of
ficially over.
tal, Pittsburgh. Mr. Joe Bonk 
closed the meeting with prayer, 
and after a buffet style lunch, 
Mr. Fred Pope took the members 
on a very delightful trip to Ha
waii via colored slides.
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE . . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES
Campus Cleaners
Gay" Moss wants to know:
At what location 
would I 
work for 
Du Pont?
Gaylord E. Moss expects to receive his B.S. in Electrical Engi
neering from Tufts College in 1957. His interest in electronics was 
aroused, in part at least, by summer work in Du Ponts Photo 
Products Plant at Parlin, N. J. But Gaylords interest in tech
nical work goes much farther back. He received the Bausch and 
Lomb Science Award at his high-school graduation.
Clayton Hill answers
Where would you want to work, Gay? The choice 
isnt quite so wide as that reply indicates, but if you 
have good reason for preferring a given area, and 
Du Pont has an opening there for which youre 
qualified, your choice will certainly be considered. 
We have 69 plants and over 70 research and develop
ment laboratories scattered through 26 states. 
So the odds are pretty fair that you can work in an 
area you like.
Most of the Du Pont units are situated east of the 
Mississippi, but some of them are as far west as the 
Pacific Coast. Right now, new plants are under con
struction in Michigan and California, providing even 
wider choice in those two states.
Of course, a man may be transferred after a time. 
The chemical industry is a growth industry, and 
transfers are generally associated with progress and 
promotions.
So you see, Gay, the geography of the United 
States is pretty much an open book for Du Pont 
professional men, adding a lot to their interest and 
enjoyment on the job.
Clayton B. Hill, Jr., joined Du Ponts Jackson 
Laboratory at Deepwater, N. J., in 1940 and left 
for the Air Corps in 1942. After military service 
he obtained a B.S.Ch.E. from Pennsylvania State 
University (1949), and returned to Jackson Lab
oratory. Clayton was assigned to Du Ponts 
Atomic Energy Division for a period before trans
ferring to the Personnel Division. As a represent
ative of this Division, he currently visits many 
colleges and universities.
WANT TO KNOW MORE about where youd 
work with Du Pont? Send for a free copy of 
The Du Pont Company and the College 
Graduate. This booklet contains a com
plete listing of plant and laboratory loca
tions, by state, and describes work available. 
Write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. 
(Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 
98, Delaware.
<mm>s *E6bab S. PAT. Of R
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER IIVING .. .THROUGH CHEMIS1KT 
Enjoy Du Pont Cavalcade Theater on Television

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 1, 195
Prospective Frosli 
Visit More wood 
Last Saturday
Morewood Gardens once again 
opened its doors to over 250 pros
pective women students Saturday 
afternoon from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m.
The guests were greeted by Mr. 
Daniels, Director of Admissions, 
Dean Alexander and the Mar
garet Morrison faculty, and Mrs. 
Hagins, the housemothers, and 
the nurse. Members of Cwens, 
dressed in their grey, white, and 
red uniforms, took the girls and 
their parents on tours through 
the dormitory on several of the 
floors, through the basement, the 
cafeteria, and the recreation room. 
The guests were quite impressed 
by both the laundry room and by 
the number and variety of vend
ing machines down in the base
ment.
Tea was served in the dorm 
council room by Morewood resi
dents from all classes and depart
ments. After the tour, and when 
they had gotten their refresh
ments, the girls talked to the fac
ulty of the various departments.
The number of applicants to 
Margaret Morrison has been large 
this year, and a maximum of ac
ceptances have been sent out. The 
visitors at the open house last 
Saturday seemed very enthusias
tic about both the college and 
the dormitory.
Drama
Hampshire is directed by Hen
ry Boettcher. The settings were 
designed by Douglas Wilson and 
Thomas Struthers, lighting waa 
by Sue Spector.
The play opens April 11 and 
runs through April 20. Tickets are 
available in Fine Arts, Room 100^
tContinued from page 1] 
they have been staged in a speci
ally constructed theater in Techs 
gymnasium.
Scotch n Soda has had in its 
ranks many people who are now 
famous in show business. Among 
them is Alex Segal, who was 
voted the best TV director for his 
work in the Celanese Theater. 
Alex directed and wrote the script 
and lyrics for the 1940 S n S pro[Continued from page J] 
ris, another member of the Sayre 
household. Otheis in the cast are 
John Clavin, Nina Lincoln. Jim 
Frawley, and Ed Frederickson.
Survival In Se f ton, New
Constitution
Next week, in the April 17 
issue, the TARTAN will pub
lish the new constitution as 
revised by Student Council. 
Watch for thk. important doc
ument.Pepsi-Cola Metropoiifkn Bottlinr Co.. Pittsburgh 10. Pa.
The 1940 Scotch 'n Soda pro
duction, One On The House, was 
directed by Alex Segal and Norma 
Shea played the lead.
duction One on the House. The 
lead in the 1940 production Mole
cule Man was Jaye Gordon, who 
has made frequent appearances 
in Studio One. Mitzi Cottle, who 
wrote and acted the music of the 
1953 production Shoot the 
Works, is now the new vocalis* 
of the Benny Goodman Band.
Professors practice what 
they preach... and vice versa
AEC Grants CIT 
Research Funds
Research grants recently ex
tended to Carnegie Institute of 
Technology by the Atomic Energy 
Commission include $30,000 to 
Carnegie Metals Research Labora
tory for continued research in 
electrochemical studies of nonaqueous melts, under direction of 
Professor Gerhard J. Derge and 
Associate Professor Guy M. Pound. 
This same study last year led Drs. 
Derge and Pound to the discovery 
of semi-conduction in a liquid 
(molten copper sulphide.)
The department of chemistry 
received a 354,885 Atomic Energy 
Commission grant to continue re
search in nuclear chemistry under 
direction of Associate Professor 
Truman P. Kohman whose work 
under the grant last year resulted 
in the discovery of aluminum 26, 
long lived radioactive isotope.
The Atomic Energy Commission 
also extended an undisclosed 
amount for continued nuclear 
studies at Carnegie Techs synchro-cyclotron in Saxonburg. This 
work is under direction of Asso
ciate Professor Roger B. Sutton.
Following a practice of twenty years, Pratt & Whitney 
Aircraft will again welcome a group of college pro
fessors as members of the engineering staff during the 
coming summer months.
Last year our summer professors represented col
leges from coast to coast. They tackled important projects 
in such diverse fields as instrumentation and vibration, 
combustion, compressible flow, and materials develop
ment. Despite the limited time available to these men, 
they made significant contributions to our overall effort.
Though it was to be expected that both the com
pany and the participating professors might benefit di
rectly from such a program, the sphere of influence 
has been much broader. The many students who are 
taught by these professors during the college year are 
sharing the ultimate benefits . . . profiting from lectures 
that are sparked by the kind of practical experience 
that can be gained with a recognized industry leader 
like Pratt & Whitney Aircraft.
Bands
rConitniied from page 1] 
lish horn, bass clarinet, and re
corders.
In a whole section of percussion 
instruments there is a glocken
spiel, tympani, celeste, marimba, 
xylophone, chimes, and lots more. 
The orchestra employs about 90 
instruments at various times for 
their unusual and imaginative 
scores, and they make a point of 
trucking them all wherever they 
go so that their live performances 
lack nothing which they offer on 
record.
Since 1952 they have made many 
recordings for RCA-Victor, a re
cent one being Rolf Liebermanns 
Concerto for Dance Band of .Or
chestra for which they teamed 
up with Fritz Reiner and the Chi
cago Symphony Orchestra. SauterFinegan arrangements are light 
and often humorous, impossible to 
classify. They have been heard at
Technical contributions were varied. 
Worthwhile assistance was given in'vibra
tion and instrumentation studies.
One assignment involved a comprehensive survey of equipment for the expansion of high-altitude 
test facilities in Willgoos Laboratory, the worlds 
most complete, privately owned jet engine lab.
Several summer profs voluntarily spent 
part of their time conducting refresher 
courses for P & W As young engineers.
World?$ foremost designer and builder 
/ aircraft engines
many summer pops concerts in 
this area, and are equally popular 
with dancers and sit-down audi
ences.
DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
EAST HARTFORD 8, CONNECTICUT
