VOL. 44No. 18PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1951
SPRING CARNIVAL COMMITTEE
Shown at their last meeting is the 1951 Spring Carnival Com
mittee. Starting at the lower right corner of the picture, and read
ing clockwise around the table are: Bill Dorn, Don Schumacher, 
Dick Sneddan, Sam Han, Bob Kubiak, Katie Rudy, Don Culler, Ivan 
Sturman, Paul Offerman, Dick Holl, Gene Sapper, Bob Stevens, and 
Don Baeder.
* * *'
Different And Bigger Carnival 
To Hit CIT Campus This Year
Committee Promises Name Band On Saturday, 
Friday Night Varieties, And Longer Parade
A different and bigger Spring Carnival has been forecast by 
this years Spring Carnival chairman, Don Culler, as he and his 
committee begin to formulate final plans for the 1951 Carnival on
May 11 and 12. ?----------------------------------------------------
It will be different in these re
spectsa better and more enter
taining program for Friday night, 
new rules for the float competition, 
and a probable new and longer 
route for the float parade.
Big Friday Entertainment
In the past years the Friday 
night affair which is sold on the 
same ticket with the Saturday 
night entertainment has been 
merely a dance. However, this 
year students will be given a 
stage show to go with their in
formal dance. The rule changes 
in the float competition involve a 
new arrangement for the compet
ing groups to select their themes, 
and the addition of another judge. 
This year there will be two judges 
from Carnegie Tech, and two from 
outside the school.
Carnival will be big in this 
respecta big-name band has 
been contracted for the Saturday 
night formal dance. The name of 
band will not be announced until 
next month, but students can rest 
assured that they will be getting 
the best Friday-Saturday night 
ticket combination in Carnival 
historyand at a reasonable price.
Old Favorites
To go along with the new and 
better attractions will be the old, 
favorite stand-bys such as the 
very highly competitive sweep
stakes race and queen campaign, 
varsity varieties andof course, 
the midway.
Organizations are urged to fol
low the Tartan closely for all no
tices from various Spring Carni
val committees.
The committee positions are be
ing filled by the following people: 
chairman, Don Iuller; co-ordina
tion, Capel McCutcheon; queen 
coronation, Gene Sapper; float 
parade, Bob Stevens; publicity, 
Paul Offermann, Bill Dorn; var
sity varieties, Dick Holl; midway, 
Don Baeder, George Pyle; decora
tions, Bob Kubiak. Sam Han; en
tertainment, Dick Snedden, Bill 
Dorn; technical, Ivan Sturman; 
program, Dean Streator; tickets, 
Dick Snedden; budget chairman, 
Ton Schumacher; and secretary, 
Katy Ruuy.
Varsity Varieties
All groups who intend to 
enter Varsity Varieties in the 
1951 Spring Carnival should 
send a representative to a 
meeting at the/ Union on 
March 15 at 4:30 p.m.
Please notify me at MUseum 1-6312 if you plan to 
enter.
Dick Holl 
Varsity Varieties 
Chairman
Managers Club Plans 
Intramural Eve Friday
Basketball Final, Badminton Match, 
Dance Highlight Annual Affair
Intramural Board and Managers Club will sponsor the third an
nual Intramural Night this Friday evening, March 16, in the gym
nasium and Thistle Hall.
Initiated three years ago as a means of furthering interest in the
* intramural program, as well as
Council Absentees
Absent from the last meet
ing of Student Council were 
E&S; Philip Eckman, and Fred 
Tonge; MM; Elvira Loreski, 
Carol Wilson, and Trudy Al
bright.
Council Plans To Place Boxes 
Around To Catch Suggestions
Plan Changes In Awarding Activity Keys; 
Approve New Constitution For Outing Club
At its last meeting Student Council approved changes in the 
all school activities key and the methods by which a student may 
obtain one. The students are to have increased opportunity to be 
heard in Council with the addition around campus of several sugges
tion boxes. ?-----------------------------------------------------
Dick Mitchell, chairman of the 
points and keys committee, pre
sented a list of suggested changes 
in the present activity key award, 
all of which were approved by 
Council. There is to be a new key 
awarded, and the qualifications for 
this award have been changed.
New Outing Club 
Lenny Hvizdos, chairman of the 
special Committee, presented the 
constitution of the Carnegie Tech 
Outing Club for Council approval.
It was approved unanimously.
Hvizdos stated that in the future 
there would be a strict enforce
ment of the regulations governing 
the acceptance by Council of any 
proposed student organization.
Before consideration by Coun
cil each such organization must 
submit in writing to the secretary 
of Student Council, a statement 
giving the name of the organiza
tion, list of charter members, pur
pose, and a copy of the constitu
tion.
Place Suggestion Boxes
Hvizdos also asked Councils 
opinion on the subject of student 
suggestion boxes to be placed on 
campus to provide students the 
opportunity to have their opinions 
and ideas heard in Council. Coun
cil was in favor of this suggestion.
Two appropriations were ap
proved. One for APO to buy addi
tional permanent decorations con
sisting mainly of lighting equip
ment. The other was the debating 
club to purchase a trophy to be 
presented to the winner of an in
tercollegiate debate to take place 
at Carnegie on April 28.
Dorm Council Dance 
Scheduled For April 13
At last Monday evenings meeting. Dorn* Councilmen approved 
preliminary plans for their major social event of the semester, a semiformal dance to be held April 13 at Webster Hall Hotel. Also, the 
problem of the long awaited Sunday opening of Carnegie Inn has
been solved. The new plan is^----------------------------------------------------
now awaiting administration ap
proval.
Music for the forthcoming dance 
will be furnished by Baron Elliotts 
Orchestra from 9:00 p.m to 1:00 
a.m. The event will be free to all 
dorm residents. No flowers are al
lowed. Morewood Gardens resi
dents will be given late permis
sions for the evening by special 
ruling of the administration.
Need Date?
It was streesed that any dorm 
man needing a date should contact 
his hall president, and that one 
would be provided if at all possi
ble.
If approval is granted, the Inn 
will be opened on Sundays fol
lowing Easter vacation. However, 
the Sunday opening will be made 
at the sacrifice of the use of the 
building on Saturdays. Under the 
new plan, the lounge would be 
open from noon to 10:30 p.m., and 
the grill from 4:00 to 10:30. Both 
rooms will be closed all day Sat
urday. If approved, the new status 
[Continued on page 20]
Kilties9 Tour 
Cancelled; Will 
Begin Concerts
Due to the present world situa
tion, the Kiltie Band tour, sched
uled to take place during Easter 
vacation has been cancelled. As a 
result, the Kilties are centering 
all their attention on the Spring 
Concert which is scheduled for 
mid-April.
Now on sale in the bookstore are 
postal cards depicting some of the 
best Kiltie Band formations. Stu
dents may purchase these attrac
tive cards at the low price of 2 for 
5 cents.
The Kilties also announce that 
the traditional lawn concerts will 
begin as soon as the weather per
mits.
Activities Key 
To Improve 
In Appearance
Eligibility Qualification 
To Be More Difficult
This year the all school activi
ties key and the ways in which a 
student may qualify for this award 
will undergo a radical change. Stu
dent Council has approved the fol
lowing changes which were rec
ommended by Dick Mitchell, 
chairman of the Points and Keys 
committee.
First the key itself is to be 
changed from the gold CIT to a 
more significant and more attrac
tive silver key bearing symbols 
of various activities and CIT in 
small gold letters. Mr. Mitchell 
feels that a change in the key was 
warranted from the decreasing 
number of students who have ap
plied for it in the last two years. 
Only juniors and seniors will be 
eligible for this award.
Harder To Get
The automatic awards will re
main the same but there will be 
three other changes in ways a stu
dent may qualify for this award. 
Now instead of three years par
ticipation in one designated activ
ity the award necessitates three 
years participation in two of these 
activities.
The minimum points level at 
which key awards will be made 
has been raised from 25 to 30 for 
men and 20 to 25 for women. 
Furthermore, students with three 
years active participation on one 
longevity activity plus an addi
tional point total of 15 for men, 
10 for women, for participation in 
other activities shall be consider
ed eligible for the award.
Ready In May
Mr. Mitchell feels that these 
new standards provide not only 
more equable distribution of the 
award but also increase the dif
ficulty of obtaining it and conse
quently raise the prestige of the 
award. As usual only one key will 
be awarded to a qualifying stu
dent while he is an undergraduate 
at Carnegie.
Applications will be ready 
about the end of this week and 
must be returned to the Dean of 
Students Office by Friday, April 
6, 1951. Those students qualify
ing for the award as determined 
by the Points and Keys commit
tee will be able to get the key, 
probably by the end of May.
giving well-earned recognition to 
the participants in the program, 
the affair has proved to be one of 
the outstanding events on the 
school social and athletic calen
dar.
Plans for thL years program as 
announced by Dick Fleischman, 
president of Managers Club, cali 
for the staging of the final playoff 
game for the school basketball 
championship, exhibition matches 
in badminton and wrestling, pre
sentation of trophies, and an in
formal dance.
All students, faculty members, 
and employees of Carnegie Tech 
are invited to attend; admission is 
free.
First on the program is the 
championship basketball game, 
bringing together the two remain
ing teams of the six-team elimina
tion tournament. The game is 
slated to bein at 8 p. m.
At halftime of the basketball 
game, several of the outstanding 
badminton players on campus will 
stage a doubles exhibition, while 
at the same time there will be a 
wrestling exhibition.
Immediately following the bas
ketball game dancing is scheduled 
in Thistle Hall until 12. At inter
mission of the dance, Frank Motter, president of Intramural Board, 
will award trophies to the winners 
of touch football, volleyball, wa
ter polo, bowling, basketball, 
wrestling, individual table tennis 
and badminton.
King Of Hearts 
Set For April 7
Seventeen Men To Vie 
For Female Vote
Seventeen men representing 
each campus fraternity, the dorms, 
and Citcom will vie for the King 
of Hearts title to be conferred at 
the King of Hearts Ball on Sat
urday, April 7.
Active campaigning, including 
posters and activities, will start at 
7:30 a.m. April 2 and continue 
until 12 midnight Thursday eve
ning, April 5. Voting, restricted 
to the women on campus, will 
take place on Friday, April 6.
The dance, featuring the music 
of Bill LeRoy, will be held from 
9 to 12 p.m. in the mens gym. 
The womens choice, the King, 
will be announced during the in
termission at the dance. Tickets 
will be on sale in Skibo during 
the week preceding the dance at 
two dollars per couple. The dance 
will be informal.
Proceeds from the King of 
Hearts Ball will go to the Mortar 
Board Scholarship fund. Mortar 
Board, the senior womens hon
orary, is sponsoring the dance.
The names of all candidates 
must be handed in by Tuesday. 
March 20. Those wishing further 
information regarding the dance 
or the campaigning may call either 
Laura Ehni at HAzel 1-7991 or 
Jane Connor at MUseum 2-8876.
Play Tickets
Tickets for the drama de
partments next production, 
Rhondda Roundabout, will be 
available at the drama office 
at 4:00 p.m. on Tuesday, 
April 3.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2TAMANTUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1951
Editorials
Life As Usual
The Topic is war!
We hear it in the halls, on the sidewalks, over coffee, 
and in our rooms. Its the topic of the day because most 
students lives are directly affected. Mobilization means light
ersand fighters means us.
Its human nature to want to plan ahead. This is what 
makes us ambitious. It accounts for improvement in the 
world. Its a good sign. Youth is especially designated as 
the age when most planning is done. The kind and amount 
of education must be planned; the type of profession we 
enter must be planned; our lifes partner is usually chosen 
about this time.
Mobilization hits hard at the youth of the nation. Theres 
little need to plan ahead, because there's little chance that most 
students will long remain civilians.
This hopeless feeling has a harmful effect on what we do. 
We get careless, neglect our work, and lose interest in our 
education. In effect, through lack of interest in what we are 
doing, we are giving up.
Wouldnt it be worth a try to make an effort to forget 
about our future military serviceas much as possible? Now 
that may sound like a stupid suggestion, but remember, we 
are after an education because we want to better our posi
tion in society, improve our ability to appreciate life, and 
increase our capability to earn a good living. There is little 
other need for an education.
If this is our goal, and it must be, we can achieve it by 
participating in our classes and activities just as though the world 
was as peaceful as a white dove making  nest on an olive 
branch. We cant reach our goal in education by giving up dur
ing these last few quarters. We're swindling ourselves by do
ing it.
Perhaps we should forget about our future in the service 
as much as possible. Possibly, for college students it is per
missible to carry on in the live as usual manner. Theres 
more to be gained from our education that wayif we can 
do it.
Matter For Pride
Hats off to the Greeks!
And we are not referring to the most popular spot in 
Oakland for college students.
Last Friday evening Carnegies, fraternities and sorori
ties outdid themselves once again in their annual Greek Sing 
program. We felt that those fortunate enough to get into 
the packed confines of the Carnegie Music Hall to listen to 
the 18 organizations put out their best efforts in the line 
of singingand even showmanship, will agree that this an
nual affair sponsored by Pan-Hellinic Council and the Coun
cil of Fraternity Presidents is truly a credit to the Greek 
organizations at Carnegie.
THE BUSY SPRINGTIME
Think It Over
By Richard A. Ahlstrom
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street. Pittsburgh 13, fa.TELEPHONE: SChenley 1-4557; after hours. MUseuro 1-5255; for advertising and
subscriptions, MU 1-7434, MU 1-4076.
Published weekly during the school year, except nolidays and examination period*, 
t>y the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13. Pennsylvania.
Editar-in-Chief .................................................................................................Paul V. Offermann
Basiness Manager ....................................................................................................Morty H. Baker
Managing Editor ........................................................................................................Lloyd W. Dyer
Personnel Manager .................................................................................................Ray J. Mangold
New* EditorNancy Sitler. Sports EditorFred Lunt. Make-up EditorAi Bader. 
Copy EditorFred Sonnenberg. f eatures EditorDolores Mitchell. Assistant Busi
ness MaaagerBud Smith. Advertising ManagerDavid Goldsmith. Circalatioa 
ManagerA1 Selz. Photography EditorDick Gilson. Proof EditorJohn Tancill. 
Assistant Sports tditorArt Christopher
Chiet ReportersShirlee Ploeget, Jane Robb. Personnel AssistantDick Wood. 
ReportersEsteile Herlick, Marilyn Sweeney. Rosemary Serafim. Sports Staff 
Joan Cummerton, Justin Davidson, AI Moore, Larry Summerill. Art StaffHenry 
Carlsen, Carroll Grantz, Ken Ferguson, Duane Quintal, Jerry Weisman. Make-np 
-taffBea Pollack, Dick Kendrick. Feature StaffDick Ahlstrom, Harvey Katz. 
Photography StaffDavid Goldsmitn Martin Snyderman, Jim Walker. Headline 
StaffVir.cfc Riba.-. Copy StaffJeanne Shutrump, Pat Miller. Cnb ReporterAnn 
Parker, Julie Cosentino, Jane Downng, Bill Smith, Bob McQuad, Dick Durstine, 
lurry Glavin. Joan Webb. Advertising StaffAnne Philhower, Jerry Seiner, Marilyn 
S* iner, John Stroble Circnlation StaffDick Guarino, Jay Levy, Barry Innerfieid. 
secretaryEeanor Doniger. TypistsJoan Novak, Mildred Thompson, Posey Price, 
Anita Makrauer.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., 
College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription 
SI. 18 per rear.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1SOV, it tne Post Office at Pittsb.iigh. Pa . under the Act of March 3. 187. Accepted for mailing at special rate 
of postage provided for in the Act of February 2iS. 1925.
Mew.ber of the Associated Coliege Press.
| S . * ft t *-* *''* *  
Whan that Aprille with his 
shoures sote 
The droghte of Marche hath 
perched to the rote,
And bathed every veyne in swich 
licour,
Of which vertu engendred is the 
flour; 
Down in Washington there is a 
| bureau which is living back in the 
century before Chauser (and this 
isnt unusual in Washington), a 
century which has been variously 
described as a dark age, a middle 
age, and the greatest title which 
best suits the description of the 
century before Chauser in which 
this bureau down in Washington 
is still living, for this bureau is j 
one of our most scientific. And this 
is a scientific country.
As is customary in scientific 1 
America the minutest measure- 1 
ments are made here daily. And j 
well they should be in fact, for 
this bureau is the home of such 
things, the Bureau of Standards.
The Bureau of Standards, you 
say? And whats that got to do 
with Chauser and the dark ages?
Well, the whole point is that 
back in the thirteenth century 
they had feetand strangely 
enough we still have them today. 
Do we talk like Chauser did? 
No. Were progressive. But sure 
enough weve got feet, and even 
moreweve inches, and pounds, 
and ounces, an a host of other advisables, including even miles.
Have you ever stopped to think
about a mile? Five thousand two 
hundred-and-eighty feet. What a 
number! What a distance! What a 
way to measure things.
With our leadership in all else 
it seems strange that the people of 
this progressive land nation are 
so backward in this basis of all 
things scientific, measurements.
Over in Sweden in the last elec
tion there was a special vote held 
to decide whether to change the 
law concerning the proper side 
of the street for automobiles. At 
present, as in England, the Swedes 
drive on the left hand side. But 
unlike England, the majority of 
the cars in Sweden have left hand 
drives, as they do here in America. 
You can readily see that this 
causes no end of driving prob
lems and yet in the election the 
motion was defeated for most peo
ple, it seems, liked things the way 
they were accustomed to have 
them rather than to have them 
the easy way. But then is Sweden 
a progressive nation like the USA.
I guess there is no sense in do
ing things the easy way if one is 
accustomed to the difficult way, 
but if any reader ever has an op
portunity to take us out of the 
beauties of Chauserian measure
ments and bring us up to date by 
instituting the decimal system into 
practical use in this most progres
sive of nations, that man will 
merit everlasting fame.
Will you be the one to achieve 
this, or are you going to leave it 
to someone else to do?
**fMop Stonaci
I %  !,
By Dolly Mitchell
ART OF MIMICRY . . . The ca
pricious old character Dad on 
the Rege Cordic show is a senior 
music student at Tech, Sterling 
Yates. To look at Sterling, you 
would never believe that he could 
possibly be gravel-voiced Dad.
MASCOT . . . Almost'every office 
around school has a favorite mas
cot. For instance, there is Andy, a 
plaid coated piper which has been 
in public relations office for so 
long that nobody knows where he 
originally came from. Then there 
is Frosty, a rather dirty snowman 
which the dean of womens office 
claims as its mascot.
PLAYING SOLDIER . . . The uni
formed young men armed with 
wooden swords and doing double 
time around campus last week 
were notin their second childhood. 
They were new pledges of Scab
bard and Blade who dutifully ful
filled the orders of their command
ing officer. In fact, they even trav
eled to Pitts cafeteria to render 
a selection of school songs to the 
amused eaters there.
ALL PLAY AND NO WORK . . .
However, there were some indi
viduals on campus last Tuesday 
who must have been in their sec
ond, or perhaps first, childhood. 
Three eager CIT students were 
flying kites on Flagstaff Hill while 
an engineer tested his model air
plane on the cut. Still, it may be 
that spring fever is rapidly becom
ing an epidemic here.
MORE AWARDS . . . The scholar
ship plaque for the fraternity 
Pledge Council arrived in the dean 
of mens office last Thursday. 
MYSTERY . . . What in the devil 
does S C meal*? If students dont 
find out soon, the suspense will kill 
them. One guess is that it may sig
nify Spring Carnival.
SEEING RED . . . After a thorough 
search of the college, Northwest
erns newspaper reported that 
There are no Communists at 
Northwestern. Then the paper 
added, Or if there are, the Com
munist Party itself doesnt know 
they exist.
HONORED . . . For his work as an 
amateur radio operator during the 
Northwestern hurricane last No
vember, the chief storeroom clerk 
of the chemistry department, Ray
mond Nether, has been awarded 
a Certificate of Public Service by 
the American Radio Relay League. 
A ROSE BY ANY OTHER . . . 
Stan March, public relations di
rector, has some unusual ideas 
about surnames. When his daugh
ter was born, he wanted to name 
her January February March.* 
Also, he thought of naming one of 
his sons, Forward March. Need
less to say, his wife objected. 
NAME . . . Recently E. V. Durling, 
in his syndicated column, mention
ed a Carnegie professor of metal
lurgical engineering. The article 
dealt with: did she get a better 
name when she married you. The 
writer said; for  instance, I saw 
that a young Washington woman 
named Riggs married a professor 
named Smoluchowski.
TELEVISION SERVICE 
POLICY SALESMEN
ALL LEADS FURNISHED 
Sell at nite, at your convenience, ex
tremely good reception at this time.
LEE ROSE SALES CO.
COurt 1-0414
BIG NEWS 
APRIL 4
CIT BOOKSTORE
Headquarters for Fraternity * 
Sorority Sappile
Oakland Hardware
3606 FORBES ST. 
MA. 1-0923

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1951TAMANPage 3
Three Classes 
Plan Spring 
Carnival Booth
The newly formed class reor
ganization committee has been ar
ranging activities for the second 
semester. The committee consists 
of the class officers and a student 
council representative.
A Spring Carnival booth has 
been planned as a group project 
for the three classes under the re
organization program. Proposals 
have been brought up to hold 
class dances and to have the fresh
men become more active in fresh
man orientation.
To help reduce the confusion 
that the acceleration program will 
cause in class reorganization, it 
was suggested that classes be or
ganized as to the time they enter, 
rather than by the year of grad
uation. Under this system the 
freshmen engineers entering in the 
summer will have their own pro
gram.
First YMCA Prexy 
Speaks At Anniversary
The YMCA will mark its thirtieth anniversary at Carnegie Tech 
Sunday, March 18. Since its organization on the CIT campus in 1921, 
it has been a very active and influential organization. The anniver
sary will be celebrated by a dinner in the Carnegie Inn at 6 p. m. 
The main speaker will be the firsts----------------------------------------------------
president of the Carnegie Tech 
Branch of the YMCA, Dr. Phillip 
S. Donneli, who is now vice-presi
dent of Oklahoma Agriculture and 
Mining College.
Invitations have been extended 
to all old cabinet presidents and 
members. Former members of the 
committee of management will 
also be present. All students who 
are members of YM or YWCA are 
invited. Tickets may be purchased 
from members of the Y Cabinet 
or at the Y office, 5075 Forbes St. 
(MA. 1-2600). Faculty price is
HARVEY'S MEN'S SHOP
HEADQUARTERS FOR MANHATTAN SHIRTS IN SQUIRREL HILL
1707 MURRAY AVE.
Open Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Evenings 
PHONE JA. 1-3500
 hfrt
^rdui
imAa cum kundry
White button* 
oxford, soft 
roll to the collar. 
Popular as a holiday
tViA follnura nrtiI
 Fine whit 
broadcloth, extreme 
widespread collar. 
Sharpest shirt on 
the quadrangl 
this year.
$1.50 and student price is $1.25. 
The music department will pro
vide the music for this anniver
sary celebration.
Ran Basketball 
The "rrMCA has done outstand
ing work since it was organized in 
1921. In 1922, it was in charge of 
the first interfraternity basketball 
league. Under its auspices, the 
senior council plan, which was 
later replaced by the orientation 
program, was introduced. It was 
also responsible for the Chapel 
and Religious programs. Another 
Y activity in its infancy was the 
International club.
Included in its program at Car
negie Tech now are three retreats 
a year. They are usually held in 
the fall, winter, and soring. This 
spring the retreat will be held at 
Cooks forest.
Counselling Offered 
Another activity which is a 
service to students is counseling. 
The office of Mr. Rollin V. Davis, 
Executive Secretary of the Y, is 
always open to help students solve 
their problems. The RMCA con
tinues to serve the men of Car
negie regardless of creed, in every 
possible, helpful, and practical 
way, as they did when it was 
organized 30 years ago.
Debate Team 
Finishes Fifth
Penn State Captures 
First In Tournament
The Carnegie Tech entry with a 
record of six wins and two losses 
placed fifth in the annual tourna
ment of the Debating Association 
of Pennsylvania Colleges last Fri
day and Saturday. Penn State de
feated the University of Pennsyl
vania in the final round of the 
meet at Temple University, Phil
adelphia, to become the fourth 
DAPC champion.
Ronald Curhan and Jay Claster, 
CITs affirmative team, turned in 
consecutive victories over LaSalle, 
Penn State, Pitt, and Slippery 
Rock. The negative team of Fritz 
Friedlaender and Arnold Sherman 
won over Mt. Mercy and W&J and 
lost to Lafayette and defending 
champion Allegheny.
CIT Ahead of Dukes, Pitt
Temple and Bucknell, eliminated 
in the semi-final round, placed 
third and fourth and Duquesne 
University finished right behind 
Carnegie in the 27 team field. Pitt 
and Mt. Mercy also ran. The 
DAPC membership includes vir
tually all of the Pennsylvania col
leges which engage in intercolle
giate forensics. Previous winners 
of the annual tournament were 
Swarthmore College in 1948, Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, 1949, and 
Allegheny College, 1950.
Jay Claster participated in the 
extemporaneous speaking contest 
which was won by Bernard Mc
Gowan of Pitt. Last year, this 
contest was won by Emerson Pugh 
of Carnegie Tech. The'oratorical 
contest, in which Ronald Curhan 
[Continued on page 7]
Final Tally
The tabulation of the score 
sheets of the three Greek Sing 
judges placed the fraternities 
and sororities in the following 
order: FraternitiesDelta Upsilon, 268; Sigma Nu, 264; 
Kappa Sigma, 262; Alpha Tau 
Omega, 260; Beta Theta Pi, 
258; Delta Tau Delta, 250; Sig
ma Alpha Epsilon, 248; Theta 
Xi, 231.5; Fhi Kappa, 230; and 
Tau Delta Phi, 118 (one judge 
abstaining from voting). The 
Pi KAs were disqualified and 
the Beta Sigs failed to enter a 
team.
The SororitiesKappa Al
pha Theta, 271; Delta Delta 
Delta, 270.5; Kappa Kappa 
Gamma, 266.5; Delta Gamma, 
254; Alpha Epsilon Phi, 248.5; 
Chi Omega, 245; and Sigma 
Kappa, 234.
These point ratings are out 
of a possible 300 total, and are 
the totals of the judges rat
ings on interpretation and 
general effect, intonation, ac
curacy, tone quality, diction, 
and homogeny of sound.
Mary Jo Carraher (right) is shown receiving the first place 
cup for Kappa Alpha Thetas Greek Sing team from Jane Connor, 
president of Pan-Hellenic council. The presentation was made at 
intermission of Greek Sing on Saturday night. It marked the second 
consecutive year that the Thetas have taken top honors in the Sing.* * *
Tfietas, Dlrs Win Greek Sing 
Before Full House At Music Hall
Tri Delts, Kappas, Sigma Nus, And Kappa Sigs 
Follow Winners; Second Straight For Thetas
Delta Upsilon and Kappa Alpha Theta took home first place 
honors at the Greek Sing last Friday night. Second place went to 
Sigma Nu and Delta Delta Delta, while Kappa Sigma and Kappa 
Kappa Gamma copped the third position.
The Sing concluded weeks of rehearsals on the part of both di
rectors and singers. The contest, which took place in the Carnegie 
Music Hall, was perhaps one of the most successful ever to be held. 
A fitting climax to the musical ? 
weekend was the Greek Swing on 
Saturday night, featuring Bill LeRoys orchestra.
A Professional Flavor 
Sponsored by Pan-Hell and 
CFP, the Sing included groups 
from eleven fraternities and seven
Spring Concert 
Of Glee Clubs 
Is Scheduled
School Glee Clubs 
To Give Annual Show 
Music Hall On April 6
Carnegies men and womens 
glee clubs will present their an
nual Spring Concert on Friday 
evening, April 6, in Carnegie Mu
sic Hall. The program this year, 
consisting of numbers in a Wide 
variety of style and mood, includes 
sacred, folk, art and modern songs, 
and contemporary musical comedy 
favorites.
Of special interest will be the 
combined clubs presentation of 
an old English folk song, arranged 
by Vaughn Williams, with a bari
tone solo by Ames Gilliland. This 
group will also sing a medley of 
songs from the hit show, Carou
sel, featuring the well known If 
I Loved You.
Russian Selection
The Womens Glee Club will of
fer works by Brahms, Handel, 
Mozart, and R. Strauss among 
others. A string ensemble, com
posed of members from this group, 
will present several selections.
The Mens Glee Club will give 
selections from Grieg, Bach, Titcomb, and the Russian Liturgy. 
Their appearance will be high
lighted by the rendition of several 
songs from South Pacific. Mr. Ray 
Good, the manager of the club, 
will sing a tenor solo.
Representative Groups
The combined Glee Clubs from 
one of the most representative 
groups on campus, since the mem
bership is made up of students 
from every college and nearly ev
ery department of CIT. Miss Car
olyn Krnnrfy, assistant professor 
of music at Carnegie, directs the 
women, and Mr. Paul Brautigam, 
supervisor of music in the Pitts
burgh schools, leads the men. Ac
companists for the two groups are 
ean Rupp and Dave Alexey, who 
also serves as student director for 
the men. Laura Green is the stu
dent director of the womens 
group.
Admission to the concert will be 
50 cents, and tickets can be ob
tained from any club member or 
at the box office the night of the 
performance.
sororities. Few of the participants 
have had previous musical train
ing, but the quality of singing 
Friday night s howed a profession
al flavor.
Winning songs of the DUs were: 
Hail, Delta Upsilon, Going to 
Shout, and Bless This House. 
The Thetas sang: Listen to the 
Lambs, Gay Young Jack, and 
Smoke Dreams.
Judges for the Sing included 
Father Thomas Jackson, music 
[Continued on page 8]
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of Manhattan shirts, neck 
wear, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts. beochwear and handkerchief.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4TAIWANTUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1951
Tartan Hoopsters 
End 1950 Season
Victories Over Pitt, Allegheny, GC 
Highlight Nine And Tivelve Record
by ART CHRISTOPHER
The final whistle of the CIT-Westminster game on the night of 
March 3 brought to a close the Tartan basketball campaign for the 
1950-1951 season.
Considering the occasional hard luck into which Coach Mel 
Cratsley and his cagers were con-*'
IM Swimming
Entries for the intramural 
swimming meet must be in the 
office of the Director of In
tramural Athletics not later 
than 5 p.m., Wednesday,
March 14.
A 15-man limit has been set 
for all competing teams. The 
meet will be held on March 19 
and 20, and will include the 
following events: 100-yard
medley, 50-yard freestyle, 50- 
yard breaststroke, 150-yard 
freestyle, 50-yard backstroke, 
100-yard freestyle, and 200- 
yard freestyle relay.
tinually running, the final record 
of nine wins and 12 losses is very 
commendable. The loss of rangy 
Hilary Holste early in the season 
robbed the Skibos of their only 
source of height. It is hoped that 
Holste will once again be on hand 
for the Tartans next year when 
the CIT quintet takes to the hard
wood.
Took Pitt
Getting off to a mediocre start, 
the Tartans soon were holding a 
record of three wins and three 
losses when they took on Doc 
Carlson's hot and cold Pitt 
Panthers. The 24 point victory 
over the rivals from down the 
hill was sufficient to label this 
a successful season in the minds 
of many CIT rooters.
In one of their roughest games 
of the campaign, the Tartans 
knotched one of their last big 
victories when they managed to 
etch a win out over Allegheny. 
Despite the victory, this game was 
costly to the Tartans, for it was in 
this game that Holste broke his 
leg in the final few seconds of the 
contest.
Worst Whipping
On January 17 the Scots trav
eled to the campus of Geneva Col
lege where the Covies, lead by A1 
Vlasic, gave the Tartans one of 
their worst stompings of the year. 
This began a slump in which the 
hapless Tartans could win only 
four out of the remaining 13 con
tests.
Carnegie. .56Lawrence Tech. .69 
Carnegie. .72Steubenville .... 37 
Carnegie. .55Waynesburg ... .56
Carnegie. . 61Bethany ............38
Carnegie..62Westminister ...73 
Carnegie..62Slippery Rock ..51 
Carnegie. . 66U. of Pittsburgh 42
Carnegie.. 52Allegheny ........50
Carnegie. . 61Geneva ..............81
Carnegie..52Wash. & Jeff....54 
Carnegie.. 55Gettysburg .... 79 
Carnegie.. 67Dickinson ...... 58
Spring Grid Drills 
Begin On April 2
Dr. Baker Seeking Replacements
For Gridders Lost Via Graduation
by FRED LUNT
Despite the fact that it seems like it was only yesterday that 
the Carnegie Tech football team was completing its history-making 
season of 1950, the Tartan gridders are getting set once again to 
don the moleskins and begin working-out in Skibo Bowl.
Clarence <Buddy) Overend, DiShow7n above are the members of the 1950 Canregie Tech starting football lineup, with the ex
ception of the three senior members of the first team (Nick Simcic, Floyd Wiseman, and Lou Fougere). 
The question marks represent the positions that S kibo coach, Dr. Eddie Baker, will have to fill be
fore the Tartans open the 1951 season against California State Teachers College.
Tarquans To Present 
Colorful Water Show
Featuring a new black light and a variety of dance styles set tq 
water formations, the Tarquans of CIT will present their annual 
water show entitled Davey Jones Locker on Friday and Saturday,
~ ?March 16 and 17, at 8:00 p.m.
The two performances will in-Tartans won nine games in which 
they scored the most field goals, 
dropped twro in which they tallied 
more fielders than the opponents, 
and dropped one in which the 
number of fielders scored were 
equal.
Carnegie won six games in 
which they converted the greater 
number of free throws, while their 
opponents managed to win 10 of 
the 13 games in which they outCarnegie. .62Grove City........73 scored the Scots from the free
Carnegie.. 63Case Tech ........65
Carnegie. . 43Duquesne.............66
Carnegie.. 7 9Thiel .....................62
Carnegie..56Wash. & Jeff....69 
Carnegie. .45U. of Pittsburgh. 70
Carnegie.. 71Indiana.................61
Carnegie..70Grove City........58
Carnegie. .66Westminster .... 71 
Won by Carnegie: 9 
Lost by Carnegie: 12
One of these defeats was in
curred at the hands of the mighty 
Duquesne Dukes. Oddly enough 
the Tartans managed to hold the 
Dukes to a 25-25 score at halftime. In the third period, how
ever, the familiar Tartan last half 
letdown set in, and the Dukes 
went on to score at will and gain 
the 66-43 margin of victory.
Of the four teams with which 
the Tartans played home and 
home series, they managed to split 
the decisions with two of the 
teams while dropping both ends 
to the other two teams. Washing
ton & Jefferson and Westminster 
both managed to clear the two 
game series with the Skibos while 
Grove City and Pittsburgh felt the 
sting of the Tartan fury in at 
least one of their meetings.
Renewed Games
This season saw the Tartans re
newing relationships on the ath
letic basis with two former CIT 
opponents, Gettysburg College and 
Dickinson College. The Gettys
burg quintet managed to down the 
visiting Tartans, while the men of 
Dickinson were unable to match 
the skill of the Skibos.
At home Carnegie won five 
games while losing four; on the 
road, they won four games while 
dropping eight.
throw line.
More Fouls
Four times the Tartans had a 
lead at the halftime intermission, 
only to have this lead cut out and 
overcome by the opponents in the 
second half to end up as Plaid 
losses. In one game the Skibos 
were tied With the opponents at 
halftime and they managed to lose 
out in the second period.
Carnegie had a foul conversion 
percentage of 60.8%, and their 
opponents compiled an everage of 
62.9% on free throw attempts.
The Tartans had 102 fouls call
ed on them while the opponents 
only got in the way of the Tar
tan cagers on 86 occasions.* * *
elude many tempos, and ranges 
from a coed priate number to 
Lily Pads, and Star Fish. The 
use of black light will create 
many interesting illusions as only 
the specially treated suits of the 
performers can be seen with this 
illumination. A special effort is 
being made to keep the temper
ature at a height that will allow all 
the patrons to enjoy the show. The 
pool temperature will be lowered, 
the door left open, and a fan kept 
running during the entire show.
Although sponsored by the 
Tarquans, the production is the 
result of many hours of work and 
effort on the part of all the mem
bers of the WAA. All the work, in
cluding the lighting planning, 
props, publicity, and acting has 
been done by the girls under the 
direction of Miss Ruth of the 
womens physical education de
partment.
Tickets for the production may 
be purchased for 75 cents from any 
member of Tarquans, and any 
remaining tickets will be on sale 
at the gym the nights of the show.
Golf Candidates
Clarence (Buddy) Overend, 
Director of Intercollegiate 
Athletics and varsity golf 
coach, has called a meeting of 
all those men interested in 
trying out for the varsity golf 
team. The meeting will be 
held in room 102 of the mens 
gymnasium on Thursday, 
March 15, at 4:30 p.m.
reetor of Intercollegiate Athletics* 
has announced that Spring foot
ball practice will begin on April 
2 and run until April 28.
Members of last years squad 
are slated to report to the field 
house on Thursday, March 29, to 
be issued equipment, while all new 
candidates for the team are to re
port the following day.
Replacements Needed
Dr. Eddie Baker, head coach of 
the Skibo grid team, will then be
gin the difficult task of finding re
placements for the players who 
will be lost through June gradua
tion. Such stalwarts as Nick Sim
cic, Floyd Wiseman, and Lou 
Fougere will not be with the Plaid 
aggregation when it takes to the 
field next Fall, and to find men of 
equal ability will be no easy job.
Likely candidates for Simcics 
left halfback post are speedy 
Johnny Luchok, who took over at 
that position on occasions last sea
son and should have the inside 
track; Jerry Blumfeldt, who show
ed considerable ability in 1950; and 
Chuck Griffith, a transfer student 
who formerly played with Miami 
of Ohio.
Battling for the vacant right end 
spot will be freshmen Dick Pakos 
and Wayne Guenther and sopho
more Walt Selavko, all of whom 
saw a great deal of action last 
year.
A replacement for Wiseman at 
left guard will be even more dif
ficult to produce. One note of en
couragement was forthcoming, 
[Continued on page 6]
1950-31 Individual Records
Player
GamesHalves
Played
Field
Goals
Free
Made
Throws
AU.Total
Ackermann, Hans203331192581
Adzema, Pete332145
Beck, Tom2142824#58204
Bennett, Bill11199101328
Bianchl, Len (Capt.)2142393959117
Cerrito, A1441113
Cowan, Bob330111
Craig, Tom2142954286232
DufTus, Bob440e10
Farbacher, Bill21427263106207
Hammann, Connie17291191731
Hay, Donf12112
Holste, HilaryS162233475
Katselas, Milts12135
McCullugh, Bob2140333860104
Pottmeyer, Ed7113157
Thompson, Kay2142762032172
Totals:214843085061276
Onnnnnt14*43S5M51283
Student Co-op
Univertity of California ot Lot Angele 
Lot Angelet, California
In Los Angeles, California, a favor
ite gathering spot of students at the 
University of California at Los 
Angeles is the Student Co-op be
cause it is a cheerful placefull of 
friendly university atmosphere. 
And when the gang gathers around, 
ice-cold Coca-Cola gets the call. For 
here, as in college haunts every
whereCoke belongs.
Plus M State Tax
Ask for it either way ... both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.
 BOTTLED UNDE* AUTHORTTY OF THE COCA-COIA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
G 1951, Th* Coca-Cola Company
. J wQvOwmiXjC AjidCvv'* i

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1951TA9ANPage 5
{Bill. IS bVA^D WEIGHS lT8 IBS.HE 
MS A GRAOUATCOF NORTH CATHOLIC 
iHIGH SCHOOL IN PITTSBURGH. BILL 
GAINED VALUABLE EXPERIENCE BESPORrSCOPE
8Y FRE& Lt/Atr
SPORTS HEADLINER-by Ferguson
The recent accomplishment of the Carnegie Tech swiming teamthe winning of the Penn-Ohio Swimming Cham
pionshipwas the second notable sports development at Car
negie this year, and deserves to be given equal recognition 
with the 1950 football success. Certainly it was a fitting cli
max to the best season the mermen have experienced since 
before the war, a season that saw them continually improve 
from the beginning of the first meet until the end of the 
Penn-Ohio.
Coach Sofield and his proteges have merited any and all 
praises that might come their way. The spirit and determination 
shown by every member of the team entered in the Penn-Ohio 
competition was of the type common to few athletic organiza
tions. The fact that the margin of victory was only a single point 
goes far toward proving that it was a team victory, not an in
dividual one. The swimmers fought for every last pointand 
it paid dividends in the final result. Each member of the team 
is equally responsible for the first Penn-Ohio Championship won 
by Carnegie in the seven-year history of the meet. >.
Varsity Or Intramurals ?
During the four years that we have spent writing about 
Carnegie sports events, we have become fairly well acquaint
ed with most of the coaches of the various athletic teams at 
CIT, and have had an opportunity *to talk with them about 
their particular teams. Whoever the coach might be, or 
whatever the circumstances leading to our conversation, the 
one comment made by every coach at one time or another 
is if I only had a couple more first rate players, we would 
really go places this year.
Certainly a sports writer realizes that a certain amount of 
this crying towel technique is an inherent characteristic of 
these coaches, regardless of whether or not such a situation as 
they describe really exists. The unfortunate part is that, there 
are enough first rate athletes on this campus to reasonably 
satisfy the coaches. The only hitch is that these athletes are 
'not playing varsity sports but rather are wasting their time com
peting in intramurals.
Whether or not it was designed to do so, the intramural 
sports program has definitely drawn a valuable portion of 
the schools manpower away from the varsity scene. Dur
ing the past four years this writer has seen at least two 
dozen men playing intramural athletics who could have been 
members oi one or more of the varsity teams. In a school 
where there is definitely no over-abundance of athletic ma
terial, to have this many athletically-inclined students avoid
ing varsity competition, yet spending time playing intra
murals, is inexcusable.
It should be remembered that intramurals are intended as 
an outlet for those who do not have the ability to play varsity 
athletics. It should also be remembered that Carnegies varsity 
athletics are on the road back. If you who are reading this 
column possess the necessary athletic ability, go out for a var
sity sport and quit fooling around with intramurals.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
POOR Paul was having a fowl time because his down was up. 
All the chicks made wise quacks about his upswept hairdo 
until his shellmate suggested he duck over to the drugstore. 
Waddle I do? he asked. Get Wildroot Cream-Oili the 
druggist answered. Non-alcoholic. Made with soothing lanolin. 
Grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that plastereddown took. Remove ugly ducklings  I mean ugly dandruff! 
Help pass the fingernail tet! Now he engagedhes lovely 
he uea pondto swim in! (Iant he decoy one?) So water 
you waiting for? Oet a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Hair Tonic at any drug or toilet good counter today. Ask your 
barber for professional applications. And tell all your webfooted 
friend it eggeactly what the ducktor ordered!
jf: of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snydr, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, lac., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
FARBACHER HAS EVERY SHOT 11. 
THE BOOKS. HE IS ACCURATE 
FROM THE OUTSIDE AND IN
SIDE PERFORMING BRIUANTLV 
UNDER THE BOARDS -A RUGGED 
DEFENSIVE PLAYER ,6000 FOR 40 
MINUTES OF HUSTIE IN EVERY 
CAME. BILL HAS FILLED IN FOR 
INJURED H.HOLSTE SINCE MIDSEASON. HE 1S A FRESHMAN If 
MCH,ENG. WITH A PKOMI 
COURT CAREER A HE AO.
FOR E COM INC TO C.IT. WHILE PLAYING 
WITH LOCAL AMATEUR TEAMS.
DU Keglers 
Defeat Betas
Use Of Illegal Players 
Eliminates Four Teams
After the completion of the final 
league bowling matches, it was 
discovered that four of the teams 
in the competition had been using 
illegal players in several of their 
matches. For this reason the en
tire final standings of both bowl
ing leagues were altered consid
erably when the final count was 
taken.
In the Spares League the first 
place was unchanged as the Delta 
Upsilon aggregation had compiled 
a substantial lead for the league 
title.
The Phi Kappa squad had been 
knocked out of second place by 
the Pi Kappa Alpha team, but it 
was found that the PiKAs roster 
hadnt contained the name of one 
of the men used in the match. VOL. 
this reason the Phi Kappa team 
received credit for the four points, 
and gained final second place hon
ors.
Three Teams Shifted
In the Strikes League three 
teams, the Kappa Sigs, the Sigma 
Nus, and the SAEs all used illegal 
players at one time or another, 
and therefore the final standings 
were altered quite a bit.
The first of the championship 
playoffs was played last Saturday 
when the Spare League kings, the 
DUs, and the strike League sec
ond place team, the Beta Theta 
Pis, split the four points. The Betas 
took two of the three games. The 
DUs, however, managed to take 
the first game by a big enough 
margin to also give them the ad
vantage on the total pin count 
for the three games.
By the rules of the tourney, in 
the event of a point tie, the team 
taking the total pins wins the 
match. Therefore the DUs were 
the winners, scoring 2123 pins to 
a score of 2103 for the Betas.
Scores Low
As may be seen by the score, 
both teams bowled exceptionally
Farbacher Prominent 
As Freshman Cager
Six Years Prior Experience Make
Tartan Athlete Poised Performer
by AL MOORE
When CITs varsity basketball team took the court during pre
season practice, Coach Mel Cratsley encountered a problem not un
common to basketball coaches. June graduation had unburdened 
him of some of his best talent, and gaps were left to be filled in the 
starting lineup. ?-----------------------------------
Unlike most coaches, though, 
Cratsley did not have a substan-tent of ex-college and high school 
stars. They play a semi-pro brandtial freshman or JV team to draw j of basketball. Sammy David of 
from. When an experienced j pjtt fame and Bud Jeannette of the 
freshman, Bill Farbacher, turned i pro-Baltimore Bullets are but two 
up for practice it was worth at j 0f many big names who have 
least one raised eyebrow. When j played, or still are playing, in the 
he made good in practice, Coach i league
Cratsley put him on the starting ; in the first few games of the 
team, and he has remained there j season Farbacher relied, of neces
sity, on past experience. He 
showed a certain poise uncommonPlayed Semi-Pro
Farbacher has played six years ; to freshman ball players. On the 
of organized ball. Four of these ! court he played a background" 
were spent on the Sharpsburg ; brand of ball. He proved a ball 
High School team. More import- j handler, rebounder, and marks- ant than this, however, were two | man in equa]> if not overly 
years of experience he gained j abounding proportions, 
while playing for Sharpsburg CIO Added Pressure
in the Pennsylvania Industrial When an unfortunate accident
League. disabled the very capable Hilary
These teams, recruited and Holste, Farbacher was moved to 
maintained by companies in the , the center position. The added 
area, are made up to a large ex- | pressure seems to have supplied
the missing spark.
Since that time he has consist
ently scored in double figures, as
well as proving an adept rebounder. He has well filled the 
benchbound Holstes position. The 
fact that the Tartans have suffered 
a minor collapse since the fatal
low scores consideringthefact 1
that this was a championship playoff match.
FINAL LEAGUE STANDINGS
STRIKES LEAGUE
Points
Newman Club ........................____17Beta Sigma Kho ...................____14Tan Delta Phi ............................   ____IS !?Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...........__1#* Kappa Sigma ..........................__Sigma Nu ..................................1 1
SPARES LEAGUE
PointsDelta Upsilon ......................... ...Phi Kappa ....................................* * .____19Alpha Tau Omega ...............__ItiTheta Xi .....................................__1Delta Tau Delta ..................._____IS*Pi Kappa Alpha ...................____9Citcom ...........................................__0?These teams forfeited mosoftheirmatches due to use of illegalpiavers.
In fa<
ceive credit for stemming the tide 
of defeat.
At 20, Bill Farbacher still has 
three more years of ball left. With 
his advantages of height, experi
ence, and natural ability, local 
fans have reason to expect even 
greater things from him in the fu
ture.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6lAWM HITUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1951
Track Team Swings Into Action 
As Spring Weather Arrives
Coach Halferty To Rely On Veteran Stars
To Lead Cindermen Through Seven Meets
With the first appearance of spring weather, Coach Guy Halfertys 
varsity track team began spring drills in the Skibo bowl. About 50 
candidates answered the first call, but Coach Halferty says its a 
little early to pick out all the promising men.
IM Basketball 
Leagues End 
Regular Play
Six Teams To Compete 
For Top Place Honors 
In School Playoffs
The regular intramural basket
ball season has been completed, 
and the top two teams from each 
of the three leagues will be en
tered into the play-offs which be
gin tonight.
In the schedule released by the 
intramural office, the first place 
teams in both the National and 
the Federal Leagues have drawn 
quarter final byes. The first place 
team in the American League will 
encounter the second place team 
in the Federal League at 7:00 to
night while the second place teams 
in the American and National 
Leagues will battle it out at 8:30 
p. m.
On Wednesday night at 7 oclock 
the winner of tonights 7:00 game 
will meet the National No. one. 
The winner of the 8:30 game to
night will meet the Federal No. 
one. The winners of these two 
contests will later battle for the 
school championship, as part of 
the annual IM night program on 
Friday.
The American League ended 
with three teams having identical 
records. In the playoffs for first 
and second place, the Little Sekuds 
won over Citcom Omicrons, 36-25, 
for first place. The Omicrons de
feated Theta Xi, 34 to 32, after TX 
had drawn a first round bye. Cit
com thus represents the league as 
number two team.
Kappa Sigma A team found 
the Federal League to its liking 
and swept aside all competition 
to win first place. Here too, a tie 
for second place occurred. Mon
day night, the Blackbirds met Beta 
Theta Pi A for the privilege to 
represent the league as the sec
ond place team.
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Little Sekuds ...............................................8-1
Citcom Omicrons ........................................fi-1
Theta Xi A ...............................................8-1
Phi Kappa A .............................................6-3
Kappa Sigma B .........................................4-5
Alpha Tau Omega ....................................4-5
Pi Kappa Alpha ..........................................4-5
Beta Sigma Rho .........................................3-6
Marketeers ......................-.............................1-8
Greatest ..........................................................0-9
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Kappa Sigma A ......................................9-0
Beta Theta Pi ...............................................7-2
Blackbirds .......................................................7-2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ................................0-3
Sigma Nu 'B' ...............................................6-3
Delta Upsilon A .........................................4-5
Llabteksabs .................................................3-6
Starlane ............................................................2-7
Gunners ............................................................1-8
Theta Xi B ..................................................0-9
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Emanon ........................x................................9-0
Delta Tau Delta ...........................................7-2
Obelisks ...........................................................7-2
Raiders ............................................................7-2
Delta Upsilon -B ......................................4-5
Tau Delta Phi ..........................................3-6
Citcom Cordicrons ....................................3-6
Phi Kappa -B ...............................................3-6
Sigma Nu A .................................................2-7
Beta Theta Pi -B .......................................1-8
Beavers, Delts, 
ATO Cop First 
Handball Matches
Intramural handball began play 
last week as seven organizations 
entered competition. Six fraterni
tiesAlpha Tau Omega, Delta 
Tau Delta, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 
Tau Delta Phi, Theta Xi, and Phi 
Kappa  and one independent 
group, the Beaverslisted four 
man teams in the sport.
The first week of play was slow 
with only three matches being 
played. In the first game of the 
season the Beavers outclassed 
ATO, 2-1, dropping only one sin- j 
gles match. Krishner starred for j 
the Beavers as he won his singles | 
match 21-1 and 21-0 and then 
teamed to help win the doubles.
In the closest match of the first 
week, Delta Tau Delta, led by* 
John Montstream defeated Theta 
Xi 2 and 1. Montstream won his 
singles match handily and teamed j 
with Carl in the doubles to polish 
off the match. Oxley was the only 
TX winner as he came from be
hind to win his singles encounter
19-21, 21-17, 21-18.
In the only other match played 
ATO evened its record by down
ing Phi Kappa 2-1.
However, he has made plans to* 
hold an inter-squad meet on 
Tuesday, March 20, in the bowl, 
weather permitting. This meet, he 
hopes, will consist of all regular 
events and should serve to deter
mine his best material.
High Scorers Gone
Jim Andrews and Bob Green, 
both consistent scorers last year, 
are gone this season, and just how 
much their loss will hurt cannot 
be determined until the season 
begins.
In the sprints, Halferty is de
pending on such returning men as 
John Luchok, Bill McKibbin, and 
Fritz Wilson. In the quarter mile, 
Fred Price is expected to repeat 
last years performances, while 
cross-country star Dave Douglas 
and freshman Jim Shenker lead 
the half mile candidates at this 
point.
Bob Carmen, Alan Heyes, and 
Bill Murtland are expected to 
carry most of the load in the mile 
run. Cross- countrymen John 
Cooper and Bill Bloom are back to 
share the two mile duties.
Promising Frosh
With Bob Green gone, Jerry 
Blumfeldt will assume most of the 
pole-vaulting chores. Connie Hammann is back for both the high 
hurdles and the high jump. The 
low hurdles remain pretty much 
a question mark with Church and 
Milligan the leading contenders. 
Luchok and Wilson are expected 
to share broad jump duties.
The shot put, discus throw, and 
javelin toss pose the biggest prob
lem this year. With Jim Trautman 
and Jim Andrews gone, Halferty 
is faced with rebuilding these 
events from scratch. However 
freshmen Charles Richards and 
Charles Bateman look promising.
Betas Win IM 
League Table 
Tennis Title
Action in intramural table ten
nis play reached fever pitch dur
ing the last two weeks as the 
teams raced to complete the sched
ule ahead of the forfeit date of 
March 15.
In the Scot League, undefeated 
Beta Theta Pi copped the league 
championship by easily winning 
its last three matches. The Betas, 
led by Cecil Minor, Bill Hudson, 
and Jim Vaux, rolled to easy wins 
over the Raiders, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, and Delta Upsilon, all by 
3-0 margins.
In the Skibo League, the Out
casts and Pi Kappa Alpha dead
locked for first place, each with 
a record of five wins and one set
back. Kappa Sigma followed close 
behind the leaders, having won 
three against a single loss
The Outcasts roared into the 
first place deadlock by virtue of 
their win over previously un
beaten Kappa Sigma. Each team 
won two singles matches but the 
doubles team of Munsell and Maston proved to be too much for the 
Kappa Sigs Motter and Offermann 
combination.
LEAGUESTANDINGS
Scot LeagueWonLost
Beta Theta Pi . .........................70
X
.........................42
..........................2S
2
Beta Sigma Rho3
Delta I psilon . . ...........................14
Theta Xi B" .........................<*4
** *
Skibo LeagueWonLost
Outcasts ...........................................51
Pi Kappa Alpha ...........................1
Kappa Sigma ..............................31
.........................:{:{
.........................*4
Delta Tau Delta:
Theta Xi "A" ............................14
4
The Tartan thin-clads begin 
their regular season on April 21 
when they travel to Case Tech.
This years schedule:
April 21Case ........................There
April 28Grove City ............There
May 1Geneva......................Here
May 5Allegheny ................Here
May 9W & J ......................Here
May 15Westminster ............Here
May 19Tri-State Meet
Spring Football
(Continued from page 4) 
however, when Herman Whitenight abandoned the idea of en
listing in the armed services and 
decided to remain in school.
Football Continues
Whitenight has two years of ex
perience behind him and should 
be ready to step into a starting 
role. Jim Vodenichar, who has 
played both guard and tackle, also 
may be given a chance at the left 
guard post.
Due to the fact that the institut
ing of a three-semester schedule 
for freshmen and sophomores will 
hamper practice sessions next Fall, 
some consideration was given by 
the Athletic Board to the abandon
ment of football at CIT. However, 
since most of the present players 
appear to be free from the pos
sibility of being inducted into the 
armed services, it was decided to 
continue the sport for at least an
other year.
Kappa Sigs Defeat 
Beta Sigs, Take 
Water Polo Crown
By outscoring Beta Sigma Rho 
3-1 in the final game of the sea
son, Kappa Sigma captured the 
campus water polo championship. 
Alpha Tau Omega finished in sec
ond place, while the loss dropped 
the Beta Sigs to third.
Hans Lange, the leading scorer 
in the league, pushed home three 
goals to lead the winners to the 
title. Lange scored ten goals dur
ing the abbreviated season, a re
markable feat, when the number 
and length of the games are con
sidered.
Don Abrams was outstanding 
for the Beta Sigs, while Ray Ru
bin and Jim Alemany stood out 
for Kappa Sigma in addition to 
Lange.
THEM AU!
Philip Morris challenges
any other leading brand 
to suggest this test
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF 
SMOKERS, who tried this test, 
report in signed statements that 
PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY 
LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1. . . Light up a PHILIP MORRIS 2. .. Light up your present brand
Just take a puffDONT INHALE and Do exactly the same thingDON'T
s-|-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting?
your nose. Easy, isnt it? And NOW... Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRISI
Other brands merely make claimsbut Philip Morris invites you 
to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself.
Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . 
Philip Morris is, indeed, Americas FINEST Cigarette!
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
PHIUP MORRIS

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1951
Pan-Hel Has 
I nter-Sorority 
Pledge Council
School Needs PRO OfficeNewman Club 
Dance April 1
Carnegie Group Hosts 
Pgh. College Students
Carnegie Techs Newman Club 
will be host to the PIFCSO at a 
dance to be held on Saturday, 
March 31. April Fools Day has 
been chosen as the theme for the 
affair which will be attended by 
students from Pitt, Duquesne, Mt. 
Mercy, and PCW. Thistle Hall will 
be appropriately decorated for the 
occasion , and the Black Cat will 
be used for serving refreshments.
Chairmen of the various com
mittees are: Marilyn Sweeney,
tickets; Margie DAndrea, recora
tions; John ODriscoll, concessions; 
Bob Lechner, rehabilitation; Ed 
Preskar, publicity, and Bill Smith, 
operations.
The dance will be held from 9 
to 12 p.m., and regular federation 
policy will be followed in admis
sions:35 cents for members, and 
50 cents for non-members.
New pledges from the seven 
sororities have been united 
through a junior Pan-Hellenic or
ganization which met for the first 
time last Tuesday with Frances 
Hamborsky, vice-president o f 
Pan-Hellenic Council. One mem
ber from each sorority will be 
elected in the near future to carry 
on the functions of the group.
The group was formed primarily 
to give the new sorority women 
insight into the meaning of the 
Pan-Hellenic organization. Co
operation rather than competition 
among the sororities will be 
stressed.
The first project that the pledges 
will undertake will be the build
ing of the float for Spring Carnival 
queen and her attendants. Junior 
Pan-Hel will work under the 
leadership of Eleanor Doniger and 
Bonnie La Grone, co-chairman of 
the float.Stanley March directs the depart
ment. Responsibility for public 
occasions, such as commencement 
and inauguration, rests with this 
department. In addition, the pub
lishing of scolarly books under the 
imprint of the Carnegie Press is 
done in this officf by the public 
relations staff.
The volumes of printed material 
which emerge from the public re
lations office are testimony to the 
instructive and constructive work 
done there to build the reputation 
of Carnegie by developing an un
derstanding and appreciation of 
the school in the publics minds.
At left: Miss Irene 
Sikentanz, 3323 
Cleveland Avenue, 
Port Huron, Mich.
Aircraft Co. Produces Scot Comes Out
Six Inch Sky Rule T omorroiv W ith
Quick and easy computation of aircraft performance data re- Many Changes 
quired by engineers and pilots is possible on a new slide rule de- J &
At right: Miss 
Elaine Krupzak, 
5082 Lapeer Road, 
Port Huron, Mich.
This is typical of thousands of 
letters telling how HADACOL re
lieves the real and basic cause of 
deficiency distresses. For HADA
COL provides more than the mini
mum daily requirement of Vita
mins Bi, B2, Niacin and Iron, plus 
helpful quantities of Phosphorus 
and Calcium. It builds up the 
hemoglobin content of the blood 
(when Iron is needed) to send 
these precious Vitamins and Min
erals surging to every part of the
Articles Are Shorter, 
New Staff Members
The latest Scot goes on sale 
Wednesday, March 14, in the usual 
places in Skibo, Industries Hall, 
Fine Arts, and Margaret Morri
son. This issue is a breakaway 
from the long stories and articles 
to newer, short ones and more of 
a photo album than any of the 
previous ones.
Some of the headline attractions 
featured by this Scot are: a short 
story by Bill Oliver, a whimsical 
article by Dick Dimon, three fash
ion pages on accessories, a survey 
of televisions neckline attractions 
by Frank Perry and Ken Fergu
son, an illustrated review of the 
faculty, and, naturally, lots of 
gags and cartoons.
A few changes have been made 
on the staff with Cal Cruden and 
George Goode replacing Frank 
Stitt as business manager, and 
Bill Rowe replacing Marion Fischman as new circulation manager.
The Scot has also acquired a 
new printer with a lower price 
who is expected to help the finan
cial success of this new issue.
Hadacol May Relieve Cause of Troubles 
When Due to a Lack of Vitamins B , 
B2, Niacin and Iron, that Interfere with 
Fun and Studies!
The marvelous benefits of HADA
COL, today's great nutritional 
formula, are equally helpful to 
young and old alike who are suffer
ing from a lack of Vitamins Bi, Bj, 
Iron and Niacin.
Heres what these two pretty 
coeds, who may have been suffer
ing from such deficiencies, have to 
say: We are two college students 
writing you this letter. Before tak
ing HADACOL we were nervous, 
restless and unable to sleep at 
night. We found we were foggy 
all day and ached all over. Now 
after taking only 3 bottles of HAD
ACOL we are different persons. 
We are full of life and energy and 
our aches have completely disap
peared. Thank you for your won
derful discovery of that remarkable 
product, HADACOL.
Going Home or Visiting for Easter
IT COSTS NOTHING EXTRA TO BUY YOUR 
GREYHOUND BUS OR AIR TICKET FROM US
Thinking of a Summer Vacation Anywhere?
WE HAVE MANY CHOICE OFFERINGS FOR LONG 
OR SHORT TOURS; WIDE RANGE OF PRICE
ANNE EGAN TRAVEL SERVICE
Park Bid?., Pittsburgh, Pa. COurt 1-3943
Agents:Everything Advertised in Travel
body and to every body organ.
Why not find out today why 
thousands say, Only HADACOL 
gives you that Wonderful Hadacol 
Feeling . At your druggist: Trial 
size only $1.25; large family size, 
only $3.50.
Debate
[Continued from page 3]
took part, was won by Robert Bird
of Bucknell.
To Meet Pitt 
The affirmative team of Emer
son Pugh and Joel Readio will 
represent Carnegie Tech in a Pitt 
CIT clash on Friday, March 16, at 
Western Penitentiary. The in
mates of the institution will be the 
audience. The topic for debate is 
the natiooal question: resolved; 
the non-communist nations should 
form a new international organ
ization.
SENATOR DUDLEY J. LE BLANC 
The Best Friend You Ever Had
Senator LeBlanc has been in 
public life since he was quite 
a young man and has always 
advocated the cause of the op
pressed and downtrodden. It 
was he who introduced the lay 
in Louisiana that gives every 
deserving man and woman in 
Louisiana a pension of $50.00. 
It was he who introduced the 
law creating the office of Service 
Commissioner, the duties of 
which office is to see that every 
deserving ex-soldier and veter
an receives his just reward from 
the Federal and State Govern
ment. It was he who has con
sistently fought the battle of 
the school teachers in the halls 
of the legislature. He worked 
untiringly for the farmers, and
 Prepare to step into a respon
sible executive position in the re
tailing field: buying, advertising, 
fashion, personnel. Specialized 
training, exclusively for college 
graduates, covers merchandising, 
personnel management, textiles, 
store organizations, sales promo
tion, and all phases of store ac
tivity. Realistic approach under 
store-trained faculty. Classes are 
combined with paid store work. 
Students are usually placed be
fore graduation. Co-educational. 
Masters degree. Limited enroll
ment. Write or call Admissions 
office for Bulletin C.
 One-Year Course 
leads to
Master's Degree
 Next Class Begins 
July 2, 1951
RESEARCH BUREAU FOR RETAIL TRAINING
University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh 13, Pa,
Senator Dudley J. LeBlanc
th laboring man.
Ypu can place your confidence 
in a man who has by his past 
activities demonstrated to you 
that he is your friend. If you 
are suffering from deficiencies 
of Vitamins Bi, Ba, Niacin and 
Iron, dont hesitate, dont delay, 
buy HADACOL today.
Save Your Pennies!
CIT BOOKSTORE 
April 4th

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TAfWAIMTUESDAY, MARCH 13, 195t
Carnegie Tech Conducting Top Tau Delts And 
Petroleum Research Laboratory
Dr. Rossini Directs Research On Two Projects 
With More Than $760,000 In Equipment
Oil! This cry heard in the great oil fields of Oklahoma or 
Texas means a greater future in America. Petroleum today has 
grown into one of the largest industries in the United States. It has 
become the source of many types of highly efficient gasoline, lubri
cants, waxes, gas, gas oil, chem-* ~
icals. and many other necessities 
of modern living.
Carnegie Tech is contributing to 
the progress of this industry with 
the addition last year of the new 
Petroleum research laboratory 
which contains more than $760,000 
worth of equipment, apparatus, 
and research materials.
Does Spade Work 
This laboratory is carrying on 
fundamental research on the com
position and properties of petrol
eum and its derivatives. Funda
mental iesearch is the spade
work" and is aimed to provide 
basic information to be used later 
in applied research.
In response to the petroleum in
dustrys constant efforts to make 
more efficient and wider use of its j 
raw materials, the laboratory is 
working to answer better these 
two questions: What is in petrol- t 
eum and in the things we get from 
it? and What are the character
istics of the things we find in pe
troleum and in its derivatives?
The laboratory is conducting its 
research through two American 
Petroleum Institute projects, which 
are called API Research Project 
#6 and API Research Project #44. j
The Rev. Rhys Price, min
ister of the United Presbyter
ian Church of Claysville, Pa., 
will be the speaker at the an
nual Easter Chapel Service 
next Tuesday in the Little 
Theater. His subject will be 
The Gentle Arts of Making 
Allowances.
Both the mens and womens 
glee clubs will perform at this 
chapel, which is annually 
sponsored by the Y-Cabinet.
AE Phi Pace 
Factor Ratings
Final Figures Show All 
Sorority Factors Top 
All-School Average
Factor ratings, recently released 
from the Deans office, show that 
fraternity women are above the 
school average while fraternity 
men are below.
The all-school average jumped 
to 2.256, with the all-mens aver
age being 2.193 and the all-wom
ens being a very high 2.43. The 
all-fraternity average was slightly 
lower than the all-mens factor, 
2.185, and the all-sorority aver
age paced all the groups at 2.50.
Tau Delta Phi was far ahead of 
all fraternities with a factor aver
age of 2.42, while Alpha Epsilon 
Phi wrested the scholarship lead 
away from the Tri-Delts during 
the past semester with a 2.76.
Following the Tau Delts among 
the fraternities were SAE, 2.2595; 
Theta Xi, 2.2590; Delta Upsilon, 
2.1921; Sigma Nu, 2.1917; Kappa 
Sigma, 2.1860; Beta Sigma Rho, 
2.1844; Pi Kappa Alpha, 2.1770; 
Delta Tau Delta, 2.1716; Beta 
Theta Pi, 2.1501; ATO, 2.0787; Phi 
Kappa, 2.0772.
The sororities, all above the all
school average, finished in the fol
lowing order: Kappa Kappa Gam
ma, 2.70; Delta Delta Delta, 2.68; 
Chi Omega, 2.62; Kappa Alpha 
Theta, 2.53; Sigma Kappa, 2.45; 
Delta Gamma, 2.30.
When Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, 
who is director of both projects, j 
left the Bureau of Standards last 
year to join the Carnegie faculty, 
the projects were transferred by 
API to the Carnegie campus.
Use Elevator Shaft
The main purpose of Project #6 
is to analyze, evaluate, purify, j 
and measure properties of petrol
eum components. Petroleum is 
made up chiefly of hydrocarbon 
molecules. Project #6 has been 
developing and assembling ap
paratus for physically separating, 
with a high degree of efficiency, 
these hydrocarbon molecules.
An interesting note about proj
ect #6 is that a 60-foot shaft, pre
viously intended as an elevator 
shaft in the new E&S building, is 
now used for the assembly of tall 
absorption and extraction col
umns.
The purpose of Project #44 is 
to collect, calculate, and compile 
data on the properties of hydro
carbons and related compounds. 
It represents something of a World 
Almanac on petroleum hydrocar
bons and other petroleum com
pounds. Through this project a 
complete record of necessary in
formation will be compiled for 
future and present use or refer
ence.
Greek Sing
[Continued from page 3 J 
manager of St. Pauls Cathedral 
choir; Mr. Henry Ready, director 
of music at Mercersberg Academy; 
and Mrs. Virginia C. Lowe, music 
director at the Fifth Avenue High 
School.
This annual sing contest is an 
endeavor to create an affair that 
will stimulate a competitive spirit 
on an amateur level and to develop 
more spirit among the sororities 
and fraternities.
Printing Seniors Leave Sunday 
For Mid-Western Plant Trip
Twenty-one seniors in the department of Printing Administration 
will leave for the annual printing plant trip this Sunday. This years 
trip will be made to Chicago, one of the countrys major printing 
and publishing centers. -------------------------------------------------
The purpose of the trip is to 
give the students a chance to talk 
with top management, and gain 
insight into some of the problems 
with which management is faced.
It also gives the group an op
portunity to see in actual opera
tion some of the finest printing 
houses in the country, and be
come familiar with the various 
ways which these companies use j 
to handle production and quality j 
control, training programs, cost 
control systems, and other phases ! 
of graphic arts management.
Among the more than a dozen 
plants which will be visited are 
R. H. Donnelley and Sons, where I 
the actual production of Life and 
Time magazines will be seen, and 
Rand-McNally, the worlds larg
est map producers.
On Monday, March 19, the 
group will be the guests of the 
Miehle Printing Press Co. at a 
special luncheon, and on the fol
lowing day they will lunch with 
the Society of Typographic Arts 
at the Normandy House. Mr. R. H.
Middleton, director of typography 
at Ludlow will be the guest speak
er. Jahn & Oilier Engraving Co. 
will also entertain the group at 
lunch on Thursday at the 740 
Club.
Professor Homer E. Sterling, 
chairman of the Department of 
Printing Administration, and Mr.
Bror Zachrisson, visiting professor 
from Sweden, will accompany the 
group. ' i
CIT BOOKSTORE
Remembers with NORCROSS GREETING CARDS
LOVE THOSE CARDS? 
YOU BET I DO!
NO FOOLIN FRIENDS 
YOULL LOVE EM TOO!
Remember Your Family At Easter Time With A Gift From Your
Own Bookstore
SHOP EARLY!! EASTER. MARCH 25th
Freshmen Must 
Pre-Schedule
To Complete Schedule 
For Summer By March
Freshman pre-scheduling infor
mation cards for the summer and 
fall semesters are being filled out 
now. All freshmen in the college 
of engineering and science and in 
the division of humanistics and 
social studies are required to at
tend the summer semester this 
year. Only second semester fresh
men in the department of printing 
management are not required to 
attend this semester.
All freshmen affected by this 
program are asked to fill out pre
scheduling information cards (in 
triplicate) and bring them to Pro
fessor J. B. Rosenbach in IH 219-B, 
where he will check them over 
with freshmen personally. This 
should be done before Wednesday, 
March 21.
Freshmen are reminded that 
their mentor or department head 
will be glad to assist them in the 
preparation of these cards.
Registration for the summer se
mester will be held on June 4 and 
classes will begin on the follow
ing day. The summer semester 
will run to September 13, and 
registration for the fall semester 
will begin immediately.
Dorm Council 
Grants Charter 
To Focal Plane
Camera Club Obtains 
Darkroom In Union
Focal Plane, the dorm camera 
club, has not only obtained its 
charter from the mens dormitory 
council, but has held its first elec
tion and is now well on its way 
to becoming one of the most active 
of the many activiteis in which 
dorm residents may participate.
The newly elected officers are: 
Donald Hand, president; Hugh 
Young, vice-president; Everett 
Greene, secretary; and John Burgeson, treasurer. Mr. L. H. Miller, 
plant maintenance manager, is the 
faculty advisor.
The club has obtained a dark 
room at the Union which will soon 
be completed and available to the 
members of the club. The officers 
have arranged for photographic 
supply discounts for the members 
and a monthly print contest with 
prizes totaling ten dollars for the 
wining contestants.
The next meeting is tonight in 
the meeting room of the Union at 
9:30. All dorm residents are in
vited.
FRANK MEN S WEAR
5816 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
An Arrow Shirt
Makes A Man Look His Best 
In The Easter Parade!
Carnegie Graduate 
Studying In France 
On U. S. Fellowship
Irene Pasinski, recent recipient 
of the Fulbright Fellowship to 
study abroad, is now studying in 
France. This award is a U.S. Gov
ernment grant given under the 
Fulbright Act.
Mrs. Pasinski is studying indus
trial design at the Ecole du Louvre 
in Paris, France. Also included in 
her curriculum is an intensive 
study of the French language at 
the Sorbonne. She has been a prize 
winner four consecutive years for 
paintings exhibited in the Associ
ated Artists Annual Exhibition at 
Carnegie Institute. In addition, she 
has worked for various concerns 
in Pittsburgh as an industrial de
signer and as a display and exhi
bition designer.
A graduate of Carnegie Tech, 
Mrs. Pasinski is an active mem
ber of the Associated Artists of 
Pittsburgh and was a member of 
Mortar Board, Phi Kappa Phi, and 
Chi Omega.
Mrs. Pasinski was one of three 
Carnegie students or alumni who 
won Fulbright Scholarships. A to
tal of 11 applied.
Before you leave for Easter vacation, be 
sure to get a supply of your favorite 
Arrow white shirts and Arrow ties . . . 
at your Arrow dealer now!
Shirts $3.95 up Ties $1 up
tl ARROWSHIR TS & TIES
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, Inc.
ROY V. BEESE
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE* HABERDASHERY
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1951TAMANPage 9
AnnualConference 
Of Principals 
To Be On April 4
Guidance will be the theme 
of the annual conference of high 
school principals with former stu
dents now at Carnegie on April
4 at 4 p. m.
During this, conference this sub
ject will be discussed in order that 
the principals may find out what 
sort of guidance the students are 
receiving, and the students may 
suggest what type they want. Some 
departments will have open houses 
operated by the students during 
the earlier part of the afternoon.
Members of the Carnegie Tech 
administrative staff will give a 
dinner for these 150 representa
tives from all over Western Penn
sylvania. The mentor or advisory 
system at Carnegie will be dis
cussed on this occasion.
CIT Outing Club 
Organized; Plan 
Many Activities
Carnegie students interested in 
having a lot of fun, and in getting 
out of the rut of spending all their 
time developing their already 
over-developed minds while their 
bodies remain weak and puny, 
met today in the Little Theater in 
Fine Arts at 11:30 to organize the 
CIT Outing Club.
The many sporting activities 
planned by the club include ski
ing trips, mountain climbing, 
swimming and skating parties, 
camping trips, intercollegiate trips, 
and just about any type of athletic 
or sport activity in which students 
want to participate. This club has 
been organized by students who 
are interested, but will need the 
support of many to succeed. Watch 
the Skibo bulletin board for an
nouncements of future meetings.
Hershey Announces Students 
Facing Draft Are To Be Tested
Old Armed Forces Test To Be Used 
On More Than One Million Students
Initial fruits of the study made by the Scientific Manpower 
Advisory Committee of the National Security Resources Board with 
relation to the drafting of college students took form last week with 
the' announcement from General Hersheys office that the upper 
brackets of all classes will be deferred.
The plan calls for the testing of more than one million college 
students. Students may stay in college next year if they receive the 
equivalent of more than 120 on the^ 
old armed forces classification test.
Freshmen In Upper Half
In addition, this years freshmen 
in the upper half of their classes, 
scphomores in the upper twothirds, and juniors in the upper 
three-quarters, regardless of their 
test score will be deferred through 
next year.
According to Hershey, the preCampus Interviews on Cigarette Tests 
Number 15SSSPRI NGCAVLOPPNIM
UMBRELLA BIRD
They must think 
I. don't have enough sense 
to get out of the rain!
Lmade L. W. madder than a wet hen when they
asked him to judge cigarette mildness by taking one puff, one huff, one whiff or 
one sniff. Our common sense friend enjoys a good smoke too much ever to 
settle on any brand in such a snap-judgment way! For him and for millions 
like him, theres only one convincing way to test cigarette mildness.
Its the Sensible Teat... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test, 
which simply asks you to try Camels as your steady smoke 
on a pack after pack, day after day basis. No snap judgments 
needed ! After youve enjoyed Camelsand only Camels
for 30 days in your T-Zone (T for Throat, T for Taste), 
we believe you will know why . . .
More People Smoke Camels
than any other igarette!
liminary work on the tests has 
been done, but that the printing 
of the more than a million tests 
awaits executive approval. Time 
is becoming an important factor, 
since the tests must be given be
fore the end of this school year.
Based on the progress of new 
draft legislation now up before 
Congress, it appears as if next 
years freshman class will be 
largely unaffected by the draft.
NSRB Affects Move
While Hershey personally made 
the decision that will probably 
affect a majority of college stu
dents, it is needless to say that the 
report made to Congress by W. 
Stuart Symington, chairman of 
the National Security Resources 
Board, had no little influence. 
Symington presented the report of 
his 12-man Scientific Manpower 
Advisory Committee, which in
cludes scientific leaders in educa
tion, industry, and the military. 
Carnegie Techs president J. C. 
Warner is one of the representa
tives from the field of education.
This committees report in
cluded recommendations for a 
temporary plan (see Tartan of 
February 27) and a long-range 
plan. The latter plan assures a 
continuous flow of students 
through college under military 
service, in the event that a Uni
versal Military Training law is 
enacted.
Serious Shortage of Engineers
In its recommendation the com
mittee points out that only about 
110,000 were graduated last year 
(an all-time high) in all fields of 
science and engineering, and un
less a suitable plan is devised, the 
flow of students receiving such 
training will be so sharply cur
tailed during the next two or 
three years as to be wholly in
adequate to meet national needs. 
The gap resulting from an inter
ruption could not be made up at 
any forseeable time in the future.
The long-vrange plan proposed 
to offset this shortage will be pre
sented in detail in the next issue 
of the Tartan.
BOG Plans 
To Celebrate 
St. Patricks
Mixer Set For Union; 
All Students Invited
One of Carnegies newes organ
izations, BOG, plans to celebrate 
St. Patricks day with a mixer at 
the Carnegie Union from 8 to 12 
p.m.
Activities for the evening will 
include dancing, cards, Irish sing
ing, and refreshments. Everybody 
is asked to wear something green 
in honor of the occasion. No charge 
will be made for admission.
BOG, the Betterment of 
Grades club, extends a welcom
ing hand to all students in the 
hopes that this mixer will not only 
offer them a good time but will 
provide an opportunity for con
structive criticism of the club.
The first function of BOG last 
week indicated a favorable reac
tion to this infant organization. 
Prof. Morgan, from the Bureau 
of Measurement and Guidance, 
who spoke at the meeting, was 
bombarded with questions from 
his audience on study habits and 
grades. He told the students that 
cramming for a test is no good 
and that the best way to review 
is to close the textbook and write 
everything about the subject that 
comes to your mind.
Math Students 
Are Entered In 
Putnam Meet
Boyer, Dorn, Larimer, 
Geiper, ISodvik, And 
Cook To Represent CIT
Six mathematics students have 
been entered in the international 
William Lowell Putnam mathe
matical competition.
Now in its eleventh year, the 
competition is held simultaneously 
on campuses throughout the Unit
ed States and Canada. This year, 
math students from both nations 
will compete on March 31 for 
medals, cash prizes, and an $1800 
scholarship.
Carnegie students entered are 
Robert H. Boyer, Edward J. Cook, 
William S. Dorn, David H. Geipel, 
Robert W. Larimer, and John S. 
Nodvik.
Three of the students will com
pete as a team and three as in
dividuals but, according to the 
rules, the contestants are not told 
whether they are competing as 
part of the team or individually.
Last year, Carnegie placed 
among the top eight colleges in the 
competition, and the year before 
it was among the top four. In 
every competition since the first, 
Carnegie has won either an indi
vidual or team prize.
Two Colleg es 
Added To The 
3-2 Plan
Juniata and Kenyon 
Join CIT Program
Two more liberal arts colleges 
have joined with Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology in a combined 
five-year program leading to both 
liberal arts and engineering or 
science degrees.
The two new schools are Juniata 
College (Huntingdon, Pa.) and 
Kenyon College (Gambier, Ohio).
The program will go into effect 
at Juniata and Kenyon in Sep
tember (1951).
In the plan, students will take 
three years of liberal arts with a 
major in science at Juniata ot 
Kenyon, then will transfer to Car
negie for two years of engineering 
or science. At the end of five 
years, they will receive a bachelor 
of arts degree from the liberal 
arts college and a bachelor of sci
ence degree from Carnegie.
The addition of the two new 
liberal arts colleges brings to 
eighteen the number of colleges 
now cooperating with Carnegie in 
the 3-2 plan.
According to Carnegie officials, 
the plan is being expanded be
cause it has been found to have 
two major advantages:
1. It gives a student a chance 
to build a broad liberal arts foun
dation before beginning a tech
nical program.
2. It gives a student who does 
not know whether he wants to
j study engineering, or science some 
college experience which may help 
| him make a choice.
President Warner said: Because 
i of these advantages we have inj vited selected liberal arts colleges 
to join with us, and we are indeed 
happy to welcome shch fine insti
tutions as Juniata and Kenyon 
Colleges.
Transfer 3-2 students will be 
j able to study one of Carnegies 
three pure science curriculumsi chemistry, physics, or mathematics 
or may choose one of five en
gineering coursescivil, electrical, 
j mechanical, chemical, or metal 
j lurgical. They may also enter the 
i Department of Industrial Manage! ment, which combines a specially 
j designed engineering program 
j with a management training stem.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10TA439A1VTUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1951 
"Mr. Bell, I heard every word you said distinctlyI*
475 YEARS OF TELEPHONE SERVICE
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
INQUIRING REPORTER
Skibo FoodAlas! 
Will It Never Change?
Food is a topic that interests all students, especially at 12 noon. 
Since Skibo is the place where food is served on campus, it is only 
natural to think of food in terms of Skibo. What do the students
think of Skibo food? ?-----------------------------------------------------
Ned Clark, freshman: I think COsts about 60 cents wholesale;
a heck of a lot
eral it is a good d^
cafeteria. I enjoy the breakfasts. 
The idea of the two breakfast 
lines, one for donuts and coffee 
and the other for big meals, is in
genious. I get a real kick out of 
that.
Sylvia Adams, freshman: .I 
dont know, the 
food seems all 
right as much 
as I eat here. 
All I have is a 
sandwich. I like 
their ice cream. 
Probably there 
should be more 
cashiers on the 
sandwich side 
of the line, 
a big long line; 
they should have about 60 people 
working there. Except for that, 
Skibo is all right.
Polly Schofield, senior: Skibo 
has tremend
ously improved 
over last year. 
However, for 
the people who 
want to have a 
small dinner or 
a sandwich 
when they are 
staying at 
school in the 
evenings, Skibo 
does not have the proper meal. A 
person must buy a full dinner or 
else not eat. The prices here, 
compared to other places, are rea
sonable. Their soups are excellent; 
in fact, Skibo food Is very good 
for the price that you pay.
A1 Julius, senior: This is a
very good ques
tion. For four 
years I have 
been here. Two 
years ago I was 
going to write 
a letter to Skibo 
but it turned 
out so vile I 
didnt mail it. I 
think Skibo 
makes about 
five times as much as it should. 
For example, a pound of butter
here they charge 5 cents a pat. 
Bread is 16 cents a loaf; here it 
costs 2 cents a slice. The way I 
figure it, a veteran living on $75 a 
month can feed himself on one pat 
f butter, two pieces of bread and 
two bowls of soup each day. An
other thing, when they serve meat 
one day, why is it that two days 
later they hav^ meat loaf. The so
lution to Skibos problem is to so
cialize the food, give the profits 
back to the students. Also, the 
dietician should find some other 
means of taking care of yester
days meat. For instance, it could 
be fed to the dogs around campus. 
To quote a Shakespearian quota
tion about Skibo food: Tis a vile 
thing you set before me.
American Youth Hostels Offer 
Hiking Program To Students
Trips To Scenic Spots Around Pittsburgh 
Every Weekend For Small Cost And Meal
The Pittsburgh council of the American Youth Hostels is offer
ing a series of outings in the next few weeks for all interested stu
dents.
Dorm Council
[Continued from page 1]
will continue for the rest of the
semester.
Movies Every Week
Other business transacted at the 
meeting included planning an in
formal Mardi Gras dance to be 
held the evening of April 28 in 
the dorm decreation rooms. Dorm 
Councils participation in Spring 
Carnival was also discussed. Plans 
had previously been made for a 
Council sponsored booth and rac
er, but the entrance of a float in 
this years celebration was vetoed.
The free movies previously 
shown every other Thursday eve
ning at the Inn have been changed 
to weekly showings because of 
good attendance.
The council was organized three years ago 
j pensive weekend in the country* 
within the reach of all. A few of 
the available outings are listed be
low. If interested call Bruce Mer
ritt (FE 1-3857).
Friday night, March 16. Blind
fold hike, no one but the leader 
knows the destination. Cost $1, 
bring eating gear for a late camp
fire supper.
Sunday, March 18. Pine Knob.
Hiking along Chestnut Ridge near 
Uniontown to Pine Knob, a rocky 
summit 2300 feet with a marvel
ous view. Bring lunch, cost $1.50.
Wes Bunnell, a senior in the print
ing department, is the leader.
Saturday, March 24. A Dive in 
Kilbuck Township. An easy hike, 
slated for beginners, into the town
ship behind Emsworth. Bring eat
ing gear for campfire supper. Cost 
60 cents plus transportation.
to place an inex75YEARSOFT 
LYAEYS 
PHNTAEOVTAV
Tartan Wants You!
The Tartan is recruiting: 
new talent to replace staff 
members who will be leaving 
the paper soon. If you are in
terested in news writing, 
sports writing, headline writ
ing, photography, makeup, or 
any other phase of newspaper 
journalism, call the Personnel 
Manager, Ray Mangold, at 
MUseum 1-5255 immediately.
Experience will help, but is 
certainly not necessary.
Sunday, April 1. Curtain raiser 
for cycling season. A beginners 
trip to Hulton Ridge and return, 
distance 20 miles. Bring lunch, cost 
15 cents.
3-HOUR SERVICE 
On Dry Cleaning
ROUGH DRY 
LAUNDRY
Washed and Dried
SHIRTS
washed and finished
CAMPUS
CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.
Life Saving 
Classes Open 
To All Women
A course in Life-Saving will be 
offered to any interested CIT 
women beginning immediately 
after the Easter vacation. Classes 
will be held every Monday and 
Thursday afternoon at 4:30. This 
will provide an excellent oppor
tunity for anyone planning to 
work in a summer camp to ob
tain her instructors rating, and 
will give those who already have 
their rating a chance to practice 
the latest techniques. Anyone de
siring to enroll should see Miss 
Kanrich in the womens physical 
education office.
The telephone is an indispensable 
tool of business and government  to
days tremendous job of production 
and defense could not be carried on 
without it. It serves in minor emer
gencies and great ones. It helps main
tain family and community ties. And it 
keeps right on growing and improving.
Never in the history of the tele
phone has it been so valuable to so 
many people as right now.
On the evening of March 10,1876, 
on the top floor of a boarding house in 
Boston, the telephone carried its first 
intelligible sentence.
It seemed like a miracle to our 
grandparents and great-grandparents. 
Yet today, the telephone is a part of 
our everyday living. And that is the 
real miracle  the fact that the tele
phone has come to mean so much to so 
many people in so many ways.
' # 4- % !* '

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1951TA4WANPage 11
TYPEWRITERS $00 50
AH Kinds as Low as
A Month
S MONTHS 
FOR $10
American Type writer (o.
11 Wood St. (0.1-1019
Convenient Parking v 1 1 '
% %
^GYRNEGlE^i/ . f\
 \ H //Or// # Art
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor .................................................................................... Frank Mihelich
News Editor ............................................................................ Martha Latza
Reporters .......... Bill Bartoli, Robert Ellstrom, Robert Lloyd, Dick
Gomrick, Alice Naumetz, George Schussler, LeRoy Stoutenburg. Jr.
Sigma Delta Phi Gamma Pi
Park It Right!
Those of us fortunate enough to be able to drive to school are 
always faced with the perennial problem, Parking. The simplest so
lutions might be any of the following: take a street car; plan to arrive 
before 6:30 p.m.; or schedule all classes for Wednesday nights.
Now all of the foregoing is, of^----------- -----------------------
course, just a bit ridiculous to the 
majority of us, but there is one 
thing we can do to, increase the 
available space. Move in closer, 
close up the gap, get those cars 
closer than two lovers in a drivein theate-, make ranks at close 
interval! We have all been ex
posed to the annoyance of driving 
the lanes about the school on the 
lookout for a parking slot only to 
see two cars taking up the room 
normally required for three, or 
one car diagonally parked across 
two slots. We are all to blame, 
because too often we are in such
a hurry to make class that we dis
regard the rights of others.
The school has gone to some 
pains to paint the familiar yellow 
lines outlining the parking stalls, 
and all we need do is put the car 
approximately in the middle 
thereof. So the next time, and all 
the time that we drive to school, 
make a real effort to conserve 
tempers and space, to allow your
self a minimum of distance be
tween your car and the next, and 
we may be able to squeeze in an
other 50 or 60 cars.
Holds Social
Few Attend, But All 
Enjoy Varied Game s
The social held by Sigma Delta 
Phi in Carnegie Union on March
3, was the first of the new semes
ter. Among all the games played, 
the one enjoyed the most was the 
old quartet contest. All of the 
group was divided into quartets 
and each quartet sang to the 
amazement of every one. After 
Mrs. Hagins judged the winning 
quartet, each member of that 
quartet was given a bottle of Pepsi 
to protect their talented voices.
After the contest was over, it 
took a deliciously prepared lunch 
to get Floyd Byers away from the 
piano. He enjoyed singing so much 
that he wanted to join in the sing
ing with all the groups.
Byron May won the door prize, 
two decks of cards. How George 
Bogovich knew the winner before 
the name was called is still a mys
tery to us!
Next time we will try to hold a 
piece of paper on the end of a 
straw by drawing through the 
straw, we will use a straw with 
a larger hole or a smaller piece of 
paper. This will keep more people 
off the floor.
Don Walker picked the wiftning
In Midst Of 
New Rushing
Phi Gamma Pi held their rush
ing tea at the Carnegie Union on 
Sunday, March 4. Entertainment 
for the afternoon was a piano and 
flute duet by Missess Elizabeth 
(Betty) Zielinski and Eileen J. 
Babyak. The tea was a succes and 
the 20 rushes had a wonderful 
time.
The next business meeting will 
be on March 8. This meeting is 
for the purpose of selecting and 
approving new pledges to the so
rority. Miss Mary Episcopo will be 
Pledge Mistress.
Incilentally, the banquet will be 
held on une 16 at the Webster 
Hall Hotel instead of the date men
tion in a previous issue of the 
| Plaid. We understand Misses Betty 
| Jane George and Ellen Gonter, 
who are in charge of the entertainI ment committee, have quite a sur
prise for the girls.
group, but we are sure he will be 
glad to hear this.
Although there was not a big 
turn out as had been expected, 
everyone present had a very good 
time. We wish to thank Betty 
Rowland for playing the piano for 
the group singing.
, r, vo c\asS 
Ita*,!118.,,)
Vf* YU 5* "
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER 
THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE !
Fine tobacco and only fine tobaccocan 
give you the perfect mildness and rich taste 
that make a cigarette completely enjoyable. 
And Lucky Strike means fine tobacco. So if 
youre not happy with your present brand 
(and a 38-city survey shows that millions are 
not), switch to Luckies. You'll find that 
Luckies taste better than any other ciga
rette. Be HappyGo Lucky today!
SC Concerned 
Over Students 
Indifference
Students Lack Interest 
In CounciVs Dances
The obvious indiffei'ence of the 
evening student body to enjoying 
a dance was one of the major top
ics under discussion at the Eve
ning Student Council meeting held 
on Sunday, March 4. Hiring high 
priced well-known bands resulted 
only in a greater financial loss.
Evening school social functions 
are appreciated by a group of ap
proximately 50 students. All en
deavors to interest others seems 
to be futile. This year only the 
square dance has drawn a suf
ficiently large crowd, but a consid
erable portion of the people who 
supported this affair were not 
Carnegie Tech students.
Council decided that the next 
social, which will be held some
time in May, will be a square 
dance. Si Braley and his orches
tra will be sought to conduct this 
popular type of dance.
The Engineers Banquet commitmittee, under the able chairman
ship of Byron May, has made 
wonderful progress toward mak
ing this years banquet a memora
ble one. The location is the Roose
velt, and the date is set tentatively 
for April 21.
George Schussler, Council pres
ident, submitted part of a set of 
! proposed by-laws for Councils 
1 approval. Presented for discusCommittee Chairmen and Com! mittee Responsibilities.
Your I.D. CARD Mean:
| CQ/L Off n Jewelry /O WTT Watch Repairs
TIME SHOP
3623 Fifth Ave. SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
EXPERT REPAIRS
Radios, Phonographs, Appliances. Television
Safes and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
115 Oakland Ave. - MA. 1-4211 
Bring Your Radio 
Problems To Us
26 Years Experience 
At Your Service
RENT A TYPEWRITER
ice Means
COP.. THf AMCftlCAN TOflACCO COMPANYRue Tobacco
Lets go to
ISALYS
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel 
3714 Forbes St., Oakland J
Main Plant: \
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
r .just

---------------------------------------------------

IPage 12TAWANTUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1951 ^
f
LEADING
SELLER
AMERICAS
COLLEGES
LWAYS
Bulletin Heard
Rossini Covers Five States 
In Thermo Lecture Tour ~
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, head 
of the Department of Chemistry 
has departed on a five state lec
ture tour, which will take him to 
the Educational Committee of the 
Philadelphia Section of ACS to
day and wind up two days later 
at the University of West Virginia 
before the Society of Sigma Xi 
and the Northern West Virginia 
Section of ACS.
His lectures on chemical ther
modynamics started at Purdue 
University on February 5.
Newman Club Cogers 
To Battle Mt. Mercy, Pitt
On Thursday evening, March 15, 
the Newman Club of CIT has 
planned a double-header basket
ball game. The girls will lead off 
at 7 p. m. in the Womens Gym 
i against the Mount Mercy College 
! team. Immediately following this
 game the Carnegie men will play 
| against the Pitt Newman Club 
 team. Spectators are welcome.
Sigma Beta Sigma Holds 
Organizational Meeting
Sigma Beta Sigma, professional 
engineering fraternity, announces 
a meeting scheduled for March 16 
at 8 p. m. in Room 324 of the 
Cathedral of Learning. This meet
ing is open to all Carnegie Tech 
graduate and undergraduate engi
neers, day and evening schools.
The speaker for the meeting 
will be Dr. John W. Graham, Jr.. 
assistant to the Dean of the Col
lege of Engineering and Science 
at Carnegie. His subject will be 
Professional Engineers Registra
tion.
Sigma Beta Sigma is composed 
of graduate and undergraduate 
engineers and dedicated to the 
furtherance of professional engi
neering. Plans are now under way 
to form a chapter of this fraternity 
at Crrnegie Tech.
Pittsburgh Film Council 
To Show UN Welfare Film
The Pittsburgh Film Council 
will show a child welfare film on 
March 15, at 8:00 p.m., at H. C. 
Frick School, Oakland. The dis
cussion topic will be Child Wel
fare Work of the U. N. Dr. Henry 
Benz, local school physician, will 
be the main speaker.
ner, organ. The program will in
clude music by Mozart, Chopin, 
Bartek, Bach, and Faure.
American Chemical Society 
Presents Movie On Glass
The chemical education group 
of Pittsburgh section of the Amer
ican Chemical Society will present 
a movie, Glass for Science, on 
March 13 at 8:15 p.m., EH 1112. 
This movie is from the Corning 
Glass Company and open to the 
public.
Sigma Alpha lota 
Presents Recital Tonight
Sigma Alpha Iota, womans mu
sic honorary fraternity, will pre
sent a recital tonight at 8:30 in the 
Exhibition Room of the College of 
Fine Arts.
Participants, all women mem
bers of the Department of Music, 
are: Clementine Rushnit and Diane 
Cumming, piano; Laura Huang 
and Arden Anderson, piano; Janet 
Hoerger, violin, and Marion HepWRCT Schedule
Tuesday
8:00Stan Kenton Show 
8:30The Extremes 
9:00Navy Star Time 
9:15Disk Jockey (Gardner) 10:00News 
10:05-Classical Hour 
Wednesday 
8:00Latin Tempos 
8:30Drama Hour 
9:30Twenty Questions 10:00News 
10:05-Classical Hour 
Thursday
8:00Broadway Showtime 8:30Stars on Parade 
8:45Sports Roundup 
9:00Proudly We Hail 
9:30Records With Wes 10:00News 
10:05Classical Hour 
Monday 
8:00Tech Varieties 
8:30Com With Claster 
9:00Jazz Jamboree at CIT 
9:30Leave it to the Girls 9:45Guest Star 10:00News 
10:05Classical Hour
BOOKSELLERS
Used - TEXTBOOKS - New 
College - Medical - Law - Technical - Science
cOn
HEADLEES 
BOOK STORE
3811 FIFTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH 13, PA.
MAyflower 1-3689
(xfrwm /r
THOUSANDS of students all over the country are making 
this testproving for themselves Chesterfield smells milder, 
smokes milder than any other cigarette. 
THEY KNOW TOO ... Chesterfield gives them more for 
their money... Chesterfield leaves no unpleasant after-taste! 
Thats right, More-for-Your-Money...
TENMCIHH CG BCUNIOHOCP OYPI.VPOHPI
Cogyrigbc 19)1, Uxnar fc Mvnt Tanca C*
