0
ATO Buggy Establishes 
New Sweepstakes Time
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., MAY 8, 1956VOL. 49No. 2,6
Barbara Kerr Is Crowned 
At Call Day Ceremonies
Carnival Awards 
Given By Queen 
At Coronation Ball
At 11:00 Saturday night the 
names of the winners of the 
various wee kend competitions 
were finally released. Spring Car
nival Queen Barb Kerr presented 
the awards before an audience of 
over eight hundred couples at the 
Coronation Ball in the gym.
The sweepstakes winners were 
already known around campus; 
the winners of design came as a 
surprise to many. Alpha Tail Omega, the first place winners of 
the race, also placed first for their 
buggy design, and PiKA, who 
took both second and third in the 
buggy sweepstakes race, placed 
second in design.
The colorful booths of the frat
ernities made such a good snow
ing that the judges had an ex
tremely difficult time deciding 
between them on the basis of 
originality and appropriateness of 
theme and game. Beta Theta Pi 
took first ;with their South Pacific 
Dunk a Bta both' while Sig
ma Nu, with their large moderni
stic Chuck-a-luck game, placed 
seccnd. A tie gave third place to 
both the Delta Tau Deltas for 
their Can-Can booth and the 
ATOs, for Peter Pan and a 
modern block-building game.
The sorority competition, which 
[continued on page 5]
PKA, KKG And 
Psychology Win 
Firsts In Contests
New Constitution Ratification 
To Come Before Student Body
Sweepstakes Winner
Dick Swaney and the ATO buggry cross the finish line in the rec
ord breaking: time of 2:25.0.
m the finish line five seconds 
ahead; for their fourth consecu
tive victory. Once again, the ATOs 
broke their own course record, 
this time by one second in 2:25.0.
Faster and Faster
Once again the1 question crops 
up: Is there a limit to the time in 
which the course can be pushed? 
When the Delts won in 2:36.0 sev
eral years ago, almost everyone 
thieved that no one would ever 
rretter that mark. Now, that time 
will not even qualify an entrant 
for the finals.
The results:
Trials
ATO ....................................... 2:28.0
PiKA ....................................... 2:30.9
PiKA .................................2:32.0
ATO ....................................... 2:33.0
DTD ....................................... 2:40.0
BTP . ________ 2:42.1
!!'.!.!........................ 2:4s.1
KS ........................................... 2:48.9
BSR ................................ 2:52.7
SN ........................................... 2:54.2
KS ........................................... 2:56.5
PK ......................................... 2:56.0
DU ........................................... 2:56.9
TX .......................................... 3:03.5
SAE ......................................... 3:09.2
BTP ............................ 3:11.2
DTD ............................ 3:22.1
Finals
4#0 ...................... 2:25.0
PiKA......................... 2:30.2
PiKA ........... 2:32.6
Veterans
Requisitions for books, sup
plies and equipment for the 
Spring: Semester 1956 cannot 
be honored by the Book Store 
after May 12, 1956.
W illiam C. Schall 
\\ ins First Place 
In Essay Contest
Award winners in the annual 
alumni essay contest designed tc 
promote greater interest in gov
ernment were announced Friday 
at Call Day.
The first prize of $150 was 
awarded to William C. Schall, a 
sophomore in chemical engineer
ing, for his paper on The New 
Technology. One of the two sec
ond place awards, each $75, went 
to John Barclay and Ed Feigenbaum for their entry Alice in 
Gangsterland;* Melvin Mister re
ceived the other for his essay on 
The Problems of Integration in 
Housing.
Also awarded were two third 
prizes of $25 eachone to William 
Mowry for his paper on Accident 
Causes and Suggestion for Their 
Prevention on Superhighways 
and other, to Robert K. Lindsay 
and Joseph K, Redding for their 
essay on The Beaver Union 
School District Probleon. Receiv
ing honorable mention and $10 
[continued on page 6]

---------------------------------------------------

   ............ " .^r.77, ' .... =J
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.  Oakland
"the
Kg*1'
retres^en''
C*_ Pittsburgh 10. Pa.Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottiine
Ratification Week Climaxes 
Student Council Planning
Pay 2CARNEGIE TARTARTuesy, Wmj ft. 19
Jy Ed Feigenbaum
This is ratification week. Seven months of planning a new stu
dent government for our campus will come to a climax late this 
week when the student body goes to the ballot box to decide whether 
or not it wants a new governing body. Student Council, which
unanimously approved the new* 
constitution, feels that the new 
organization represents a good, 
well-thought out, long range plan, 
and urges students to vote in favor 
of the new constitution.
It is certainly fair to ask, Why 
all this activity? What is so im
portant about having a strong, 
active student government?
Great Possibilities
On our campus our thoughts 
about student governments are 
unfortunately tempered by what 
we have seen of apathetic govern
ment here in past years. We find 
it hard to picture student goveernment doing anything signifi
cant, but our picture is distress
ingly narrow.
Lets allow our imaginations 
work for a few moments and think 
of what an active, powerful, pvestigeful, centralized student gov
ernment could do for this campus. 
Think of Techs new student un
ion, designed with the help of 
Techs students acting through the 
Congress, and operated by the 
Student Congress for everyones 
benefitresident and commuter, 
individual and organization.
Think
Think of an art movie theater 
in the union, operated by the 
Congress. Think of resources and 
backing available for bringing
prominent concert artists and 
orchestras to perform here; for 
bringing famous poets, scientists, 
artists, philosophers, etc. here to 
speak. Think of large-scale for
ums on national, local, or cam
pus topics organized by the stu
dent government.
As a going concern, the new 
government could loan funds to 
campus organizations when the 
need was substantial. Think of 
what this would mean to some of 
the fraternities who are having 
trouble raising the initial pay
ment on their new houses in a 
short time!
The Student Council feels that 
the new government it is propos
ing is organized to be a strong, 
centralized, active, useful govern
ment. The structure of the new 
organization is simple. It has 
three arms to do its work.
Full Representation
The Student Congress is the 
law-making body. It is a fairly 
large bodyabout 65 members. 
About half of the members are 
elected from the departments by 
the student body in an election. 
The rest of the membership is 
made up of direct representation 
from campus living groups or so
cial groups.
Each fraternity, each sorority,
Are you playing 
the right 
Spalding ball?
CARNEGIS
SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
I take a job from scratch
The Air Force introduced Forrest I. 
Hurst to communications. In 1953 he 
was Communications Officer at Lowry 
Air Force Base near Denver, Colorado. 
He was partially responsible for the com
munications setup of the Presidents 
Summer White House, and in this 
assignment he met members of the local 
Bell telephone company.
The telephone people I met, says 
Forrest, were always helpful. I con
sidered them the experts. They gave a 
very good impression of the Bell System. 
So three months before I was discharged 
I wrote to Indiana Bell for an interview, 
and subsequently I was hired as a 
Student Engineer.
Today Forrest is in Indiana Bells 
Engineering Department, working with
carrier facilitiesthe means by which a 
number of telephone calls can be sent 
simultaneously over one circuit.
Forrest is given the basic circuit and 
equipment requirements for a job. My 
boss farms it out to me, Forrest says, 
and I take it from scratch. Forrest 
does the complete engineering job. He 
writes the specifications, including wir
ing plans and the list of equipment for 
the job. Then the installers take over.
I really feel that Im contributing 
to the telephone business, Forrest says. 
My wife does too. When were in the 
car we get a kick out of driving by a 
job that I engineered. Nothing can com
pare with a career in a business thats 
growing as fast as the Bell System. Its 
the place to move ahead. *
Forrest graduated in 1952 from Purdue 
University with an E.E. degree. His career is 
typical of those which exist in other Bell Tele
phone Companies, and in Bell Telephone 
Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia 
Corporation. Your placement officer has more 
information about Bell System companies.
BELL TELEPHONE 
SYSTEM
For the low bandicapper, Spaldings new 
high-compression air-FLITE offers 
maximum distance. The exclusive 
dura-thin* cover withstands scuffing 
and bruising far longer. $14.75 doz., 
3 for $3.75.
The Spalding KRO-FLITE couples dis
tance with superb durability. The tough 
cover will stand up under surprisingly 
rough treatment and the ball stays 
round, white and puttable. $14.75 doz., 
3 for $3.75.
The Spalding TUES.,MA is a mediumpriced ball with a very tough skin. It 
combines exceptional wearing qualities 
with a playability usually associated 
with higher-priced balls. $11.40 doz., 
3 for $2.85.
Many golfers choose the Spalding 
honor. Popularly priced, it offers 
good durability and playability. Like 
all Spalding balls, it features True Ten
sion winding for extra resilience. $9.00 
doz., 3 for $2.25.
Get economy and quality in this golf ball. 
Spaldings victor is an economy 
ball with plenty of distance. The extra
thick cover promises great durability. 
$7.00 doz., 3 for $1.75.
each mens dorm, and each wom
ens tower has a representative. 
Any commuter interested in rep
resenting this group can become a 
member of Congress by getting a 
petition signed by 75 of his fel
low commuters. The Congress has 
a number of standing committees 
to help it with its work and carry 
out its functions. These include-'
Homecoming Committee, Spring 
Carnival Committee, Freshman 
Orientation Committee, Rules 
Committee, and others.
Short Run Link 
The laws and actions of the 
Congress must reach the student 
body and conversely conditions 
and sentiments within tne student 
body must reach the Congress.
The Executive Ccuncil provides 
this very necessary link. It is the 
executive arm of 4he government 
which functions in much the same 
capacity as the United States Ex
ecutive branch, headed by the 
United States president. The Executive Council consists of 11 
fcontinued on page 51 -----------------------------------------------------Wl
The new Arrow FREE-WAY is here!
Ii >r
A Campus-to-Career Case
9
Theres not a man on campus who cant use one 
of these new action-back shirts. For tennis, golf 
or most any sport, the unique cut of the Arrow 
FREE-WAY prevents binding or straining  
ever. (Theres plenty of style in these shirts, too.) 
In 20 smart colorsand we have most of them 
for your selection. Arrow FREE-WAY, $3.95.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 8, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPaff 3
Your doctor will tell youa 
NoDoz Awakener is safe as an 
average cup of hot, black cof
fee. Take a NoDoz Awakener 
when you cram for that exam 
...or when mid-afternoon 
brings on those 3 oclock cob
webs. Youll find NoDoz gives 
you a lift without a letdown... 
helps you snap back to normal 
and fight fatigue safely!
15 tabletsr large economy (izo AO# 4 (for Greek Row and Mil* Dorm) 60 tablets 
NODOZ
AWAKE NE RS
SAFI AS COFFil
631
LIBERTY
AVE.
Phone
COurt
1-1880
Teclis Financial 
Situation Seen 
As Dangerous
Recently there has been much 
talk around campus of the money 
situation at Tech. Publicity has 
j^ched the ears of alumni and 
also the ears of Charles Prine of 
the Sun-Telegraph. In his article 
of April 30, he discussed the feel
ings of some alumni and also Pres
ident J. C. Warners annual re
port.
The financial situation is dan
gerous . . . Progress has not been 
stopped . . . but it has been slow
ed and restricted and hampered. 
Desirable improvements involving 
considerable expense cannot be 
undertaken . . . Unless this situa
tion is changed, the ultimate out
come must necessarily be that 
progress will be slowly strangled.
Dr. Warner insists that the an
swer to Techs major problems are 
new resources. That means more 
money and lots of it.
Some alumni, as a result of the 
publicity, have suggested that 
Tech might be better off if it were 
divorced from Carnegie Institute. 
This is strictly a suggestion and 
not under consideration at the 
present time by the board of the 
Institute or by Tech. When An
drew Carnegie endowed the school 
fifty years ago, he placed the ad
ministration under the Institute.
The fact which concerns the 
alumni is that there are only four 
alumni on the thirty-six man 
board of the Institute. Nine of the 
board are elected officials and 
the rest are citizens of Allegheny 
County.
It has also been suggested that 
a reorganized administrative set
up could give Tech a board of 
trustees with direct control, more 
alumni and a broader national 
representation. The proponents of 
such an arrangement believe it 
would result in greater alumni 
and corporate support for Tech.
This is a serious matter and 
there is even a question whether 
the necessary change in the 
schools charter would be approv
ed by the courts because of the 
terms of Andrew Carnegies en
dowment.
Four Students Win 
Scholarships To 
San Diego Festival
Four members of the speech de
partment of Carnegie Tech have 
been awarded $250 scholarships 
for the seventh annual San Diego 
National Shakespeare Festival. 
This is one of fne five principal 
festivals in North America. The 
students are Ray Bevilacqua, 
James J. Frawley, Don W. Gibson 
and Vincent P. Romeo.
They will be featured in King 
Richard II, Midsummer Nights 
Dream, and Volpone. The sum, mer repertory will run for forty* five consecutive nights, July 20 
to September 2. A fourth produc
tion is being considered whh 
will go into rehearsal following 
the opening on July 20 and will 
be presented for seventeen per
formances beginning September 7. 
The cast for this special produc
tion will be composed of guest art
ists from the professional theatre 
and actors chosen from the Fes
tival repertory company.
The San Diego Community The
atre is a non-profit organization 
and is the nations foremost non
professional community theatre. 
It is dedicated to the two-fold task 
of bringing the best in drama to 
the community and to seeking out 
and developing new talent. Try
outs for casting will be held at 
the Old Globe Theatre on June 
11, and from forty to fifty will 
number among the company.On Caucus Maxhulman
(Author of Barefoot Boy with Cheek, etc.)
THE TRUE AND TYPICAL CASE OF 
CHATSWORTH OSCEOLA
The school year draws to an end, and everybody is 
wondering about the future  everybody, that is, except the 
engineers. Today there is not a single engineer on a single 
campus who has not received a dozen fabulous offers from 
a dozen corporations.
All this, of course, you know. But do you know just how 
fabulous these offers are? Do you have any idea how wildly 
the corporations are competing ? Let me cite for you the true 
and typical case of Chatsworth Osceola, a true and typical 
senior.
DRESS 
SUIT
tentai
Sigafoos pressed a button on the dashboard of the 
convertible, and the trunk opened up, and out came a nubile 
maiden with golden hair, flawless features, a perfect disposi
tion, and the appendix already removed. This is Laurel 
Geduldig, said Sigafoos. Would you like to marry her? 
Is her appendix out? said Chatsworth.
 Yes, said Sigafoos.
Okay, said Chatsworth.
Congratulations, said Sigafoos. And for the happy 
bride, a pack of Philip Morris every six hours for the rest 
of her life.
Thanks, hey, said Laurel.
Now then, said Sigafoos to Chatsworth, lets get down 
to business. My company will start you at $45,000 a year. 
You will retire at full salary upon reaching the age of 28. 
When you start work, we will give you a three-story house 
m made of bullion, complete with a French Provincial swimming 
pool. We will provide sitter service for all your children 
until they are safely through puberty. We will guarantee to 
keep your teeth in good repair; also the teeth of your wife 
and children unto the third generation. We will send your 
dentist a pack of Philip Morris every six hours as long as
he shall live___Now, son, think carefully about this offer.
Meanwhile, here is one thousand dollars in small, unmarked 
bills, which places you under no obligation whatsoever.
It certainly seems like a fair offer, said Chatsworth. 
But there is something you should know. I am not an en
gineer. In fact, I dont go to M.I.T. I am a poetry major 
*at Harvard. I just came over here on a bird walk.
Oh, said Sigafoos.
I I guess I dont get to keep this money and the convertible
and Laurel now, do I? said Chatsworth.
Of course you do, said Sigafoos. And if youd like the 
job, my offer still stands. Max Shulman, 1956
The makers of Philip Morris, tcho sponsor this column, mre de
lighted to know that times are so good for the engineers. To make 
Umes even betterfor the engineers and everybody elsehere's 
gentle suggestions Philip Morris, of corns I
Chatsworth, walking across the M.I.T. campus one 
day last week, was hailed by a man parked at the curb in a 
yellow convertible studded with precious gemstones. Hello, 
said the man. I am Darien T. Sigafoos of the Sigafoos Bear
ing and Bushing Company. Do you like this car?
% Yeah, hey, said Chatsworth.
Its yours, said Sigafoos.
Thanks, hey, said Chatsworth.
Do you like Philip Morris? said Sigafoos.
Of corris! said Chatsworth.
Here is a pack, said Sigafoos. And a new pack will be 
delivered to you at six-hour intervals every day as long as 
you shall live.
Thanks, hey, said Chatsworth.
_ Does your wife like Philip Morris?" said Sigafoos.
^ I'm not married, said Chatsworth.
Do you want to be? said Sigafoos.
What American boy doesnt? said Chatsworth.
Competition ]\iow 
Open For 1957-58 
Fulbright Grants
Competitions for United States 
government scholarships for grad
uate study abroad for 1957-58 are 
now open. A brochure describing 
overseas study awards under the 
Fulbright Act and the Buenos 
Aires Convention and application 
blanks are available in the offices 
of Fulbright advisers on college 
and university campuses.
The programs under the Ful
bright Act and the Convention for 
the Promotion of Inter-American 
Cultural Relations are part of the 
international educational exchange 
activities of the Department of 
State.
Eligibility requirement for these 
foreign study fellowships are: 
United States citizenship; a col
lege degree or its equvalent at the 
time the award is to be taken up; 
knowledge of the language of the 
country of application sufficient 
to carry on the proposed study; 
and good health. Preference is giv
en to applicants not more than 35 
years of age. Competition for the 
1957-58 academic year closes No
vember 1, 1956. Applicants en
rolled at academic institutions 
must abide by the submission 
deadlines established by their re
spective Fulbright advisers.
Perfect fit. Complete new stocks 
and complete range of sizes. 
Fast, dependable Kings service. 
For your next formal, call
WOhJL'A
.. . And familiar things are the best. Like Coca-Cola. Full 
of fresh, keen sparkle . . . natural quick energy . , , and 
its so pure and wholesome  naturally friendly to youf 
figure. Have it whenever you like.
OTTIEO UNOEt AUTHORITY OF TH COCA-COIA COMfAMY IT 
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING C*.5W Central ATOB ug
*^C<<e~   fgwtwd tr<U-mi*.________________ 1*54. THf COCA COtA COMPANY
Cramming 
for Exams?
Fight Book Fatigue" Safely
WE RENT
 Summer Formais
 Tuxedos
 Cutaways
 Full Dress
 All Formal Accessories

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May *, 195
Editorial
Support Needed
Voting for ratification of the new Stu
dent Council constitution will be held this 
Thursday and Friday (see page one). The 
ratification should be no problem: first of all, 
it is an excellent constitution, and secondly, 
a majority of full-time day students present 
and voting at a ratification election is suffi
cient to pass the constitution.
This does not mean, of course, that you 
should let the voting slip by. Each Tech stu
dent is morally obligated to vote foror 
againstthis document which will definitely 
affect his personal future on campus. The 
obligation doesnt end with the voting, how
ever.
The new constitution, while reorganizing 
and expanding the representation, has redis
tributed the powers of Student Council. It 
has provided for a large Student Congress, 
an effective Executive Council, and a strong 
Supreme Court. The various committees of 
both the Congress and the Executive Coun
cil will play major roles in determining both 
extra curricular and academic policies.
Among its vast duties, the Congress has the power to 
regulate and control all-school functions, to enact legislation 
necessary and proper to the general welfare of the student 
body, and to authorize and revoke official recognition of all 
student organizations whose charters are granted by student 
government The Executive Council, as well as having the 
power to recommend and to veto Student Congress legisla
tion, will act as a liaison between the administration and the 
student body on other than extracurricular matters. The 
judiciary branch of the three body government has been 
given considerable jurisdiction over both organizations and 
individuals, as well as over the other two branches of the 
government.
The duties and powers are only one phase of the student 
government which should concern each individual student. 
The other is the role that the government plays in repre
senting student opinion. Everyone on camp'us is eligible to 
run for membership in the Council, and those who are not 
members may find a voice for their opinions through the 
representative from their department, fraternity, or living 
unit. With this breadth of representation, any suggestion 
of importance may be brought up for discussion before the 
Student Congress.
But the constitution can only provide potential power 
and legal strength. The real effectiveness of the new 
government lies in the support of the student body. Former 
complaints about Student Council were the small number 
of members and its lack of power. Now that the constitu
tion has eliminated these objects of criticism, the only cause 
of weakness can be lack of support. And needless to say, 
with the greater number of people involved as well as the 
increased potential strength, the resulting weakness could 
be catastrophic.
With wholehearted student body support, our student 
government can become effective in making the whole cam
pus strong and unified. Other technical schools and schools 
with large commuting populations have done it, so these 
arguments against unity and strength are no longer sub
stantiated. We too can have a school and a government which 
are the object of total student loyalty and pride. But we 
need your support to do it! S.A.M.
//, 7 J
6T
COI
//
NEW/
UDENT
p C1L
SS****
VBEST BUY FOR'OUR MOMEr
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office phone, 
MU 2-4557; Managing Editor, MU 2-8897; Executive Editor, MU 2-9846; Advertis
ing Manager, MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
13. Pa.
Managing Editor .........................................................................................Stephanie Mackay
Executive Editor .........................................................................Robert Russell
Aftseciate Editor ....................................................................................................Marjo King
Associate Editor .............................. Richard Fox
BfiiiitM Manager .................................................Martin Ostroff
Entered a* second class matter on Ocwder 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh. Pa. under act of March 3, 1*79. Accepted for mailing at special 
rates of pottage provided tor In the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented fet national advertising by National Advertising, Int. College 
per yeer.
Notas De Un Oyente
By Luis de la Macorra
Another Spring Carnival has passed behind us 
leaving in some of us a feeling of happiness for 
having achieved something and in some others a 
feeling of grogginess and a desire to never again 
experience another Spring Carnival. But this latter 
feeling will soon pass away. By now everyone is 
getting back to the usual routine of classes and 
books. Little as we might like it, we are forced to 
realize that exams are only ten class days ahead. 
Therefore, we can do nothing else but study.* * *
Last Saturday Marshall Pihl and I. had our little 
duel, now we are friends again, just like we have 
always been. I personally want to thank all the 
people that were concerned and that helped us 
in any way, especially the editors of the Tartan 
for going along with our gag.
* * *
Tonight at 10:05 p.m. over KDKA there will 
be a special program that will last 15 minutes and 
will be dedicated to Techs Spring Carnival. This 
program will include songs from the current pro
duction of Scotch and Soda and a special tape cov
ering last Saturdays buggy finals.* * * >
The last issue of Life Magazine features an ar
ticle dealing with MITs answers for more and 
better scientists. As I read through it, something 
caught my attention. This article stated that the 
new emphasis on the humanities, for the scientist 
and engineer today is being pushed into a totally 
unfamiliar* area of responsibility . . . At this 
point, I stopped reading for an instant, and I 
asked myself: isnt this exactly what we have been 
doing here at Tech for quite a few number of 
years?
So for the moment let me just say hasta la 
vista and buena suerte to all . . .
Over The Skibo Table
By Marshall R. Pihl
This was, without a doubt, one of the most ex
citing Spring Carnivals in my memory. The spirit 
of pure joy was in no serious way marred by 
thoughtlessness on the part of the celebrants. This 
writer saw many hundreds of people, each seem
ingly celebrating in his own very personal, indiv
idual way. Some were content to take a sampling 
of the offerings on the cut and go home, some 
lived it up with a vengeance, and many more 
turned all their energies toward getting bombed 
out of their minds.
There was another way in which many Tech 
students applied their boundless energy . . . they 
built booths. The end result was beautiful and 
dazzling. Beta Sigma Rho built an impressive, ex
pensive display in the Kismet theme. Maybe the 
work that went into it deserved a trophy, but I 
hate to think of the precedent that it would have 
set. The Tech fraternities cannot afford to go 
Hollywood. . , wed suffer in both spirit and 
finance.
WRCT has made a fifteen-minute tape show for 
KDKA, called Spring Carnival1956. Itll be 
aired over the Westinghouse outlet at 10:05 to
night, Tuesday, May 8. Furthermore, it will be 
carried over WRCT at the same time. Two weeks
LettersConstitution
Editor, the Tartan:
I have been asked to express my opinion of 
the proposed new constitution of the Tech stu
dent government.
Since we are interested in the development of_ 
effective, responsible student government, we 
should judge any proposed framework in the light 
of what it may contribute to this objective. While 
other factors are of far greater significance in the 
success or failure of a government than its con
stitutional structure, still we do want a framework 
which will aid our efforts.
The new structure has several advantages. 
Though it proposed no significant extension of the 
power of the present student council, it suggests 
a distribution of power which should make fot 
more responsible and more effective government. 
In the increased number of representatives and in 
the composition of membership, it has remedied 
other weaknesses of the existing organization. Most 
important, it provides a fresh start. The lack of 
prestige earned and accorded the council has built 
up to a point where the present structure, what
ever its merits, could have little chance of ef
fective use. Students will be more ready to judge 
a new council on current evidence.
I should like to make one further observation.
The success of this or any other government will
depend, not on the structure, but on what use is
made of it. If the student body will take an in
terest in it, the government will be more respon
sive to your wishes. In turn, the new government, 
by reassuring control of evefnts which the students 
consider important, and by seeking new ways of 
aiding the electorate it should serve, will attract 
more student interest. As an article elsewhere in 
this issue has pointed ouf, the areas of action of 
an alert, efficient, and responsible student council 
have hardly been tapped on this campus.
Whether this government comes into existence 
and succeeds, or results in just another failure, will 
be determined during the next three years. Thus 
the responsibility and the opportunity belong to 
the members of the present junior, sophomore, and 
freshman classes. I trust that you will accept the 
challenge and succeed. You may count on my sup
porting you in any way I can.
Sincerely,
Dale E. Strick,
Coordinator of Student Activities.
New Solution
Editors Note: The following is reprinted 
vebatim from the TARTAN, April 1, 1939. Re
member, you heard it here first!
Dear Editor:
Since everybody is making suggestions about 
how to make a new Student Council, I thought? 
no one would mind if I gave my pet scheme* 
Alphabetical Representation. Why not have one 
representative from each letter of the alphabet, 
making 26 in all; for example, Bill Smith would 
represent the Ss. You see, as I figure it, in classes 
we are always put next to kids whose last names 
come alphabetically next to ours; we get to know 
those people better than anyone el^e, and so they 
would make splendid representatives for us.
Now can you find a flaw in that reasoning?. 
I cant, and Ive talked it over with three of my5 
L Maggie Murf friends, and they cant see any
thing wrong with it either. You might say it isnt 
fair for the Qs to be represented as much as the 
prolific Fs, but I figure the Q people deserve 
recognition and representation for having stayed 
with their obscure, even freakish, names for so 
long. I hope youll present this plan to Student 
Council, because I think it is quite worthy of 
consideration,
J. L.
Psirus
Editor, the Tartan
I am writing this letter as a complaint about 
the misspelling of my name in the last issue of the 
Tartan. You can imagine my surprise when, as I 
read the Tartan, I found myself referred to as a 
candidate named Cyrus. I can not help but con
sider this as a slur on my reputation, an insult to 
myself, my fraternity brothers, and my many % 
friends on the Tech campus.
In the name of the honor of journalism, I feel 
that it is your duty to publish an apology for this 
action.
Sincerely,
Psirus III
Tau Delta Phi Fraternity 
Carnegie Tech
in the making, the show covers the last weekends 
from stem to stern and should make interesting^ 
listening. ' .  

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 8, 1956CARNEGIE TART ANPage 3
Mike Pascarella Named 
IM Athlete Of The Year
Kappa Sigma made a valuable addition to its abundant supply 
of athletes when it initiated Mike Pascarella three years ago. Mike 
has been an invaluable asset to them ever since. The Managers 
Club and IM Board recognized this when they chose him Intramural
i^hlete of the year by a larged------------------------------------------------------
majority.
Mike, a graduating engineer, 
has Pittsbuigh for a home town.
While attending Schenley High 
School he starred in basketball 
and rootball. Upon his arrival at 
Tech, he almost immediately step
ped into the leadership of Kappa 
Sigs teams in those sports.
Mike led KS to the campus 
"Jotball championship last year, 
and to the basketball finals in 55 
and 56. He was voted to the all
league basketball team twice, 
made all-star once, and was elect
ed most valuable player in 1955.
In football he made all-league in 
*54 and all-star in 55. When KS 
won the intramural track meet 
this year, Mike contributed a first 
in the 100 yard dash and set a 
new school record in doing so.
IM Roundup
Handball 
The handball leagues have been 
completed and the top two teams 
in each league will enter the play
offs. The Slaters meet the Metallugy Grads on Monday, May 7 at 
4:30 and Obelisk takes on Phi 
Kappa on Tuesday, May 8, at 4:30. 
The Slaters and Obelisks finished 
their regular schedules with un
blemished records.
Soccer
In the playoff games held re
cently, Kappa Sig defeated Phi 
Kap, l-o and Beta Sigma Rho 
topped ATO, 3-1. The remaining 
games are scheduled for this week 
and are posted on the IM bulletin 
board.
Aivards
Duquesne, W&J 
Send Tecli Tennis
[Coniimted from page 1] 
consisted of a series of relay and 
obstacle races in the gym Friday 
following Call Day, was won by 
Kappa Kappa Gamma, possibly 
for their prowess in eating choco
late pie. Kappa Alpha Theta took 
second.
t^Plank jousting awards went to 
the PiKA team for first place and 
Phi Kappa for second. The facul
ty Egg-Throw cup went to the 
psychology department for the 
third year in a row for their spec
tacular throw of 96 feet.
Music for the dance was pro
vided by Sauter-Finegan and 
their orchestra. Both slow, danceable music and good-for-listening 
jazz satisfied the tastes of the over 
$00 guests. A low ceiling of 
multicolored balloons brightened 
the large gym, but yielded to the 
hands of many overanxious, bal
loon-seeking young men and wo
men.
Squad To Defeat
On Monday, April 30, Coach 
Frank Moses tennis squad was 
severely thwarted, 8-1, in its at
tempt to avenge this seasons earl
ier defeat. Due to a mix-up in 
playing locations, Larry Dussair 
had to forfeit his second singles 
match. A1 Glasers steady ground 
strikes and volleys could not de
feat taller Charley Blacks at
tack in the first singles contest. 
Steve Rowley had a bad day, 
while Naworski, Yu, and Crissman were outsteadied by Duquesnemen. The only winner for 
Tech was the third doubles com
bination of Crissman and Nawor
ski.
The following day, looking tir
ed from the previous days match, 
the Tartans were outhustled by 
once-defeated W&J, 6-3, which 
stretched their record to 5-1. The 
Plaids record stands now at one
Water Safety
Water safety instructors 
please meet in front of gym 
on Sunday, May 13 at 10 a.m. 
for a canoe trip in North Park. 
Bring a lunch.
Constitution
[Continued from page 1] 
Student Congress with the ap
proval of the Student Congress. 
The chairman of the Elections 
Committee shall be a member of 
Alpha Phi Omega, appointed by 
the chairman of the Student Con
gress, with the approval of the 
Congress.
Bill of Rights
3) Article I, Section 6  The 
Student Congress shall respect 
the freedoms and privileges of in
dividuals as granted in the con
stitution of the United States.
4) Article II, Section 1, E  No 
member of the Executive Coun
cil will at the same time be a 
member of the Studerit Congress, 
with the exception of the Chair
man of the Student Congress.
5) Article I, Section 7 A1  
The Vice Chairman of the Student 
Congress shall be chairman of the 
Rules Committee.
Open Meetings
6) Article I, Section 2  add: 
All Student Congress meetings 
shall be open to the Student Body.
6) Article I, Section 5 K  To 
authorize and revoke official re
cognition of all student organiza
tions.
7) Article VIII, change: Rati
fication Assembly to Ratification 
Referendum.
win and four losses with four 
matches to go. Chances of a win
ning record are slim as Tech must 
face strong Westminster, .May 10, 
Geneva, May 12, Juniata and Pitt. 
The difference between last years 
record of 5-3 and this years is 
largely due to a lack of experi
ence. Of the five newcomers on 
the squad, three are freshmen. 
Charley Schaul, a letter-winner 
last year, has been able to play 
only one match because of an 
ailing knee.
Ratification
[Continued from page 2]
members, ten of whom are on this 
Council by virtue of the fact that 
they hold the top position in im
portant activities areas.
If one group is to make the 
laws, and another is to execute 
these laws, still a third bodj must 
judge these laws. The judicial 
powers are given to a Supreme 
Court of seven members. Its pow
ers relate specifically to the ac
tions of the student government.
For more details see the April 17 
issue of the Tartan.
The Student Council does not 
say that this new government is 
perfect. Indeed, realizing this, 
Council has made the government 
very flexible, if changes prove 
necessary.
Council does believe, though, 
that this is a very good set up 
one whose presence and actions 
could be of immense value to this 
campus. Council asks you to vote 
in favor of the new constitution 
and hopes that your yes vote 
will be a pledge of your support.
Life Was Unbearable For J. Paul Sheedy* Till 
Wildroot Cream-Oil Gave Him Confidence
Sheedy' honey kept giving him the cold shoulder. "This is more than I can 
bear! Why not be n-ice? he moaned. "What fur? she demanded, "It'll 
be a frosty Friday before I date you again. And just in glacier wondering 
why, take a look at your shaggy hair. This made Sheedy 
paws and think. So he got Wildroot Cream-Oil and 
now hes the picture of confidence. His hair is handsome 
and healthy looking, neat but not greasy. Wildroot con
tains the heart of Lanolin, Natures finest hair and scalp 
conditioner. Take Sheedys advice. Whether your hair 
is straight or curly, blonde, red, black or bruin, keep it 
neat with Wildroot Cream-Oil. In bottles or handy 
tubes. Its the bearies !
* of 131 So. Hams Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y
Wildroot Cream-Oil 
gives you confidence
 Winston is the cigarette that gives you flavor in filter smoking 
 full, rich, tobacco flavor! No wonder Winstons so popular with college 
smokers clear across the country. Along with real flavor, Winston also brings you 
a finer filter that works so well the flavor comes right through. Try Winston!
, ..1 **' '  ; 'j#***4* 
HEY MOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, IV. C.
WIIVSTOIV
Akim's fOa-1

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May S, 1956
In The Sport-Lite
By Stanley Zionts
Today we begin a new column consisting of sketches of various 
Tech sports personalities. Our first two personalities are two out
standing sports figuresA1 Glaser, captain of the tennis team and 
Tom Schorr, number one man on the golf team.
LE OENARD
Following the path of his father, 
Art Glaser, Al took up tennis at 
the age of nine. His father, who 
had played with the Tartans in his 
college days, gave him the valu
able training and guidance neces
sary to improve his game. Al 
caught on quite rapidly and made 
third man of his Crafton High 
School team during his freshman 
year. His sophomore year was even 
more rewarding. Al took over the 
position of top man and held it 
until his graduation in 1951.
In the fall of that year, Al came 
to Carnegie Tech. During the first 
two years he was number three 
man on the team. In 1955 Al was 
second man, and this year he is 
captain. Als impressive record is 
as follows: in 1952, seven wins and 
three losses; in 1953, fourteen wins 
and two losses; in 1955, nine wins 
and six losses.
Since Al is an aeronautical 
mechanical engineer, his hobbies 
are those which are closely re
lated to his field. Al is a member 
of the Skibo Flying Club. An avid 
sportscar enthusiast, he spends 
much of his spare time working 
on his Model A Ford. Photography 
is another of Als interests.
Events
[continued from page I] 
sup battle between Luis de la 
Macorra and Marshall Pihl on the 
narrow plank. Marshall had said, 
go home, Wetback, giving Luis 
one more chance to leave town. 
But Luis, having made the chal
lenge, saw it through to its muddy 
end. The battle ended with them 
and all but one of their two sec
onds sprawled in the mud. The 
fourth second gleefully poured catcup from a jar over his opponents.
Sorority Relaps
After Call Day on Friday, the 
sororities held their relay races in 
the gym because of the bad 
weather. The relays included a 
wheelbarrow race, a race which
Egg Thrower Catching
involved crawling with a spoon 
with a ball in it between the 
teeth, and a chocolate pie race 
where a blindfolded girl fed her 
sorority sister with a spoon. The 
Kappas and Thetas, cheered on by 
enthusiastic spectators, were the 
winners of the competition.
Effff Throw
The weather had cleared by the 
end of the sorority event, and the 
faculty egg throw was held in 
front of Fine Arts as usual. Only 
four of the seven scheduled de
partments showed up for the event. 
Guy Pound, from metallurgy, ap
peared dressed In a blue suit, 
homburg, and brown gloves.
Dr. Gilmer and Dr. Miller, of 
the phychology department, fell 
short of the previous record, 106 
feet, throwing only 96 feet to beat 
their opponents. One of the inter
esting incidents during the event 
was the skipping or bouncing of 
one of the raw eggs from the ce
ment to the lawn without break
ing, after a throw of something 
like eighty feet. The egg was used 
over again.
'SM HPaSDD
Tom Schorr, junior mechanical 
engineer, began playing golf at 
the age of fourteen when he was 
a caddy at the Duquesne Golf 
Club. Living so near to the links 
was really an advantage to Tom. 
As his game improved he became 
a junior member of the club. In 
high school Tom participated in 
the WPIAL golf program and the 
WPG A junior tourneys. In the 
WPIAL program Tom represented 
Munhall High School and did 
rather well.
To started Tech in the fall of 
1953 and by spring 1954 he was 
second man on the squad. His rec
ord that year was two wins, three
losses, and two ties. In his sopho
more year he again held the posi
tion of second man with a record 
of four wins, two losses, and one 
tie. With the graduation of Ed Cip
ro, Tom took over as team captain 
this year. His record to date is one 
win, one' loss, and one tie.
A consistent medalist, Toms 
best round was a 66 in a match 
with Geneva at the Beaver Valley 
Country Club.
[Continued from page 1] 
were Glen C. Harris, J. Howard 
Snoke, and Harold Stessel.
The competition was open to 
all undergraduates enrolled in En
gineering, Science, Printing Man
agement, and Industrial Manage
ment. Entrants were required to 
discuss and suggest a solution for 
any current problem of a com
munity or government (local
home or campusstate, or na
tional).
The faculty judges were im
pressed by the thoughtful effort 
that each contestant has shown in 
developing his essay beyond the 
preliminary statement first sub
mitted. Each finalist has been re
warded with a ten dollar prize.
Publication Possibilities
That possibilities for publication 
exist for the winners of the essay 
contest was shown by one of the 
early winners, a man by the name 
of Sinclair. His essay, entitled 
Milwaukee, The Shell of a City, 
caused quite a commotion when 
the the newspapers received cop
ies from the Tech public relations 
department. The papers printed 
excerpts from the essay and one 
devoted an editorial to it, pointing 
out that a college student had 
managed to put his finger on one 
of basic problems in the midwestern city.
American City Magazine, a well
known magazine read by city of
ficials through out the nation, also 
ran an article including excerpts 
from Sinclairs paper and pointed 
out the astuteness of the student 
in analyzing the Milwaukee situa
tion and discerning what wasnt 
being done in the city.
The contest was begun in 1944 
by Frederick A. Faville and 
George Ellerton and is underwrit
ten by the Alumni Fund for 
Greater Interest in Government. 
These two men, who were both 
graduates of the Class of 1919 in 
mechanical engineering, originat
ed the fund hoping to promote 
more consciousness on the part of 
students and alumni and to make 
all more aware of their duties as 
citizens. It was also hoped that by 
analyzing contemporary problems, 
the students would become more 
interested and take an active cart 
in their government. .
* /
Graduating Electronics & Mechanical Engineers...
How long will you be "Junior
y2L 'CGH IC2IT uGH' e2sy2 LTG,O L sG,Lu 2IGHG,f
G' Lt G,Iu.2 sLI'yH t. CL12 ,' I,HG2y2f
WILL MY STARTING SALARY BE
| j Equal to industry staridards?
J Better than industry standards?
Gilfillan starting salaries are higher than 
overall industry standards (averaging $100 
a month higher even in this competitive 
area). This is because, at Gilfillan, the indidivuals capacity develops more rapidly than 
under rigid corporation training systems. 
He is literally worth more from the start.
HOW RAPIDLY WILL I ADVANCE?
I 1 At predetermined intervals, according 
*' to a rigid seniority system? 
9 9 As rapidly as Mm abilities warrant?
At Gilfillan, there is no hierarchy' or sen
iority system. Individuals advance as rapidly 
s abilities develop. Salaries are reviewed 
t* lea st twice a year.
WHAT WILL MY STANDING BE?
Will I have to work at a board, punch 
a time clock, or be docked for time off?
! Will I have professional standing?
At Gilfillan, you do not punch a time clock. 
You work at a desk, in a professional atmos
phere, and are subject to your own con
science when you need personal time off.
CAN I CARRY THROUGH'*
ON MY OWN IDEAS?
Up to a point, then senior engineers 
take over?
P] All the way through to production?
At Gilfillan, a man with a sound idea Is 
given his head and complete team 
project cooperation. An assigned technician 
reports directly to the engineer, for con
struction and wiring of circuits. The engi
neer carries full design responsibility
GILFILLAN GCA QUADRADAR provides 
Search, Precision Final Approach. Height Finding and Airport Taxi Control In a single, ir-transportable equipment Designed for 
and highly efficient In handling military and civil jet aircraft, Quadradar has received 
immediate and universal acceptance.
through production. Creative ability is rec
ognized in overall advancement and specific 
rewards such as large bonuses for patents.
WILL MY FIRM BE THE RIGHT SIZE?
? Is it so large I could be lost in the shuffle? 
Is it so small that the work may not 
be pure engineering?
j Is the firm growing, so I can grow with it?
Gilfillan is neither a giant nor a small, lim
ited company. Seven Gilfillan plants are 
located in Southern California, with Engi
neering Headquarters at Los Angeles. Gil
fillan is large enough to handle all phases 
of research, design and development, yet 
not so large a man gets lost. The individuals 
growth Is assured by the continuing Gilfillan 
expansion program.
WHAT WILLBE MYFIELD"OF WORK? 
Will I be confined to one field or have 
opportunities in a diversity of fields?
J I Will these include tomorrow's new' est areas of electronics development?
Gilfillan is best known as the pioneer of 
GCA radar and all its major improvements, 
including the Gilfillan GCA Quadradar-yet 
GCA is only one facet of Gilfillan activities. 
The firm has been engaged as a prime sup
plier of research, development and produc
tion of Military Electronics Systems since 
1942, including Missile Guidance systems, 
airborne and ground; Electronic Counter
measures; Navigational Radar (GCA and 
AGCA); and Electronic Radar Trainers. Gil
fillan is now concerned with many of today's 
newest, classified areas of electronics ex
ploration and development.
CAN I IMPROVE MY PROFESSIONAL 
KNOWLEDGE AND STATUS?
| \ Will tuition be paid by my firm?
?
 Will I be given aid in publishing 
technical articles?
Will thp experience of the entire 
engineering group be available to me?
Gilfillan pays tuition at universities or tech
nical institutes. All possible aid is given in 
individual publishing of technical articles. 
Continuing symposiums make the total 
knowledge of the Gilfillan engineering staff 
available to the individual.
WHAT ABOUT THE STABILITY OF MY 
JOB?
Does it depend on temporary big 
contracts?
Is the firm a war baby type that 
may or may not be permanent?
Gilfillan has appointed new engineers every 
year since the firm was established in 1912. 
Current openings are in no sense emer
gency or temporary big contract Jobs, but 
part of continuing Gilfillan expansion.
 in your job?
THE ARMYS CORPORAL. Prime Contract 
for Basic Research and Development - Jet Propulsion Laboratory of California Insit 
tute of Technology. Prime Contracts for 
Development (improvement and simplifica
tion of ground and airborne electronics systems ; and Production (ground guidance sys tems and airborne electronics) - Gilfillan. 
Gilfillan also holds Prime Contracts, many 
developmental, with the Air Force, Army 
Ordnance, Army Signal Corps, United States, Navy, Royal Canadian Air Force, Royal 
Australian Air Force, South African Air Force and the French Government.
WHAT ABOUT MY JOB LOCATION ?
I I Is it in an area with few other 
*' electronics firms, so I might find 
myself in a backwater?
I I Is it in the center of the industry, so 
there are many opportunities if I want 
to make a change?
Gilfillan Engineering Headquarters is in 
Los Angeles, now the center of the Elec
tronics Industry, with more than 165 firms 
in operation..Among these, Gilfillan reputa
tion is tops, broadening opportunity if the 
Gilfillan engineer should decide to go else
where. However, it is fair to say that, one 
acquainted with the firms operation, Gil
fillan engineers plan to stay permanently, 
because of superior opportunities for m 
comprehensive, remunerative, and secure 
lifetime career.
CAN I GET MORE GILFILLAN FACTSf 
j | By correspondence?
| | Personally?
Both. Address specific inquiries to R. E. 
Bell, Gilfillan Bros.*, 1815 Venice Blvd., Los 
Angeles,Calif. An interview will be arranged. 
If you are in the Los Angeles area, telephone 
Mr. Bell at DU 1-3441.
Cjjilfillaxi
Los Angeles
PRIME CONTRACTORS FOR COMPLETE SYSTEM
Electronic Countermeasures 
Air Navigation AMs  Guided Missiles 
Airborne Radar  Rader Trainer

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 8, 1956*-CARNEGIE TARTANPag 7
____________  tln tint [c
L'+*0r Aniurv
k This page edited by Evening School Students of the
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .............................................................................................. Emily Muhic
Reporter ........................................................................... John Van Holt, Jr.
prethen you had better do so as soon 
as possible. Day school Newman 
Club members should contact 
President Larry Kronenberger or 
Carol Sampson to acknowledge 
reservations. Deadline for reser
vations is May 17. Under no cir
cumstances will reservations be 
honored after this date.
Are You Afraid, Joe Bonk? . . .
Several months ago a challenge 
was made by some members of
Sideline News 
And Views
M By John Van Holt, Jr.
Along Cinema Row . . .
A tongue-twister entitled, The Hypochondriack will be 
sented by Techs drama department in the Carnegie Theatre.
The show, directed by Peter Bucknell, will open on May 10 at 8:15 
p.m. and will close on May 19. +
Those of you who have not af
forded yourselves the opportuni
ties of attending previous drama 
department presentations are real
ly missing some entertaining 
^treats. Lets make a date to attend these excellently performed 
and regularly produced shows.
Musical Notes . . .
Don Craig, prominent as a guest 
conductor at music festivals and 
clinics, and stage director of or
chestra and chorus presentations 
in New York City has been added 
to the summer teaching staff as a 
visiting lecturer.
Mr. Craig, a choral director for 
the National Broadcasting Com
pany, will conduct a four-week 
graduate course in choral tech
niques in the College of Fine Arts 
beginning June 25.
Welcome, Mr. Craig. I hope that 
your stay at Tech will be a very 
pleasant one.
Dip and Swirl . . .
Evening Student Council mem
bers are anticipating a large turn
out for the square dance to be 
^held at Thistle Hall on May 12.
In the past many of these social 
functions have been poorly at
tended and the $64,000 Question 
has yet to be solved as to the jus
tifiable reason, or reasons, for the 
shameful attendance. Perhaps the 
category is Laxity or Indififer* ence.
Despite these attitudes of in
gratitude student council, like Old 
Man River, just keeps rolling 
alpng in hope that some of the 
enthusiasm of the membership 
will somehow rub-off oh the 
student body, and that the stu
dents will then take an active 
part in social activities.
The success of future social ac
tivities hinges on what has been 
accomplished in the past.
It might be well to ask this 
question: Have I done every
thing possible to insure the suc cess of any student social activity 
to date? If the answer is nega
tive then it is propitious that you 
turn over a new leaf and begin 
to attend as regularly as possible.
There can be no better time to 
accomplish this than May 12,
Thistle Hail, 8:00 p.m.
Newman Club Banquet . . .
The time is fast approaching the 
zero hour as far as reservations 
to this years Annual Newman 
Club Banquet that will take place 
at Carnegie Union on Sunday 
evening, May 20 at 6:00 pm is con
cerned.
This affair is jointly sponsored 
by day school and evening school 
Newman Club and has been very 
successful in past years, both from 
an attendance standpoint as well 
as entertainment.
The roster of honored guest is 
quite impressive with such per-t
sonages as Bishop Coleman F.
Carroll (Pittsburgh Diocese), Rt.
Rev. Msgr. Henry A. Carlin, Vicar 
General (Pittsburgh Diocese), Dr. 
and Mrs. Frederick G. Rossini, 
faculty advisors of Tech Newman 
Clubs, Dalzell McKelway, regis
trar of evening classes, and Mat
thew Miller, chairman of Middle 
Atlantic Province and a student 
of Penn State University.
If you have not as yet contacted 
President John Van Holt or Vice 
President Dolores Neff as to your 
intentions to attend the banquet
ES Newman Club 
To Hold Banquet 
At Carnegie Union
On Sunday, May 20, 1956, at 
6:00 pm, the evening school New
man Club will hold their Annual 
Banquet at the Carnegie Union. 
This is the closing event of the 
Club year.
The guest speaker this year will 
be Bishop Coleman F. Carroll, 
auxiliary bishop of Pittsburgh and 
pastor of Sacred Heart Church, 
East End. Mr. Matthew Miller, 
past regional director of the Mid
dle Atlantic Province (MAP) will 
be toastmaster.
This week cards were sent to all 
Newman Club members and it is 
hoped they will be completed and 
returned as soon as possible. This 
is an event no member should 
miss. Delicious food, good speak
ers and an enjoyable evening with 
fellow Newmanites is in store for 
all who attend.
evening school Newman Club to 
play members of day school New
man Club for the bowling cham
pionship of dear old CIT Newman 
Clubs. To date no word has been 
received by the usually talkative 
Joe Bonk. Whats the matter, Joe. 
No intestinal fortitude (guts)?
Student Council 
Square Dance 
In Thistle Hall
This will be the last call for all 
of you to get ready to swing your 
partners on May 12 at the Square 
Dance at Thistle Hall. Evening 
school Student Council is spon
soring the event, but all are wel
come. Advance ticket sales indi
cate a good turnout.
Dont worry if you dont have a 
partner to go with because there 
will be stags, both male and fe
male, so come and you will be 
sure to get a partner and have lots 
of fun. Dont worry if you dont 
know how to square dance be
cause Don Guyer, a well-known 
figure callerv will be there with 
an orchestra and before the eve
ning is over you will admit you
Phi Gamma Pi 
To Hold Banquet
On Saturday, June 2, Phi Gam
ma Pi Sorority will hold its an
nual banquet at the Gateway 
Plaza. The theme this year will be 
June Brides and should prove 
most interesting since what girl 
doesnt some time or other pic
ture herself as a June Bride. 
Miss Marilyn Phipps is in charge 
of the event and promises an en
joyable meal, souvenirs, pleasing 
entertainment and a chance to 
renew acquaintances with former 
sorority members.
Cards were sent out during the 
past week so it is hoped they will 
be completed and returned as soon 
as possible.
Any affair, especially a banquet, 
calls for lots of planning and work 
and it is justified when a large 
group responds to the invitation, so 
it is hoped all the girls will make 
an effort to attend this banquet.
of Phi Gamma Pi.
never knew how much fun youd ! ^ets et together and show 
. . the true spirit of being a memberbeen missing.
When you want to take time out 
for light refreshments you will be 
able to do so in the Black Cat 
Lounge.
If you havent purchased your 
ticket yet you may do so by get
ting in touch with Miss Marilyn 
Darrah, Student Council, the Plaid 
or Mr. McKelway.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-8923
LUCKY DROODLES 
ANYONE ?xxxxxxxxxxxxWHATS THIS?
For solution see 
paragraph below.
END OF A 
LOVE LETTER
Joseph Boulanger V. of New Hampshire
BUG, SNUG IN RUG
James Keehn U. of Minnesota
BIRDS-EYE VIEW 
OF SALT SHAKER
Carl Nqab Purdue
Students!
EARN $25!
Cut yourself in on the Lucky 
Droodle gold mine. We pay $25 
for all we useand for a whole 
raft we dont use! Send your 
Droodles with descriptive titles. 
Include your name,'address, col
lege and class and the name and 
address of the dealer in your col
lege town from whom you buy 
cigarettes most often. Address: 
Lucky Droodle, Box 67A, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
"rrsontioi
foiosihefte**'
ITS EASY TO SEE why Luckies taste 
betterespecially when you study 
the Droodle above: Eye chart for 
enthusiastic Lucky smoker. Theres 
more to Luckies better taste than 
meets the eye. Sure, Lucky Strike 
Means Fine Tobaccobut then that 
mild, naturally good-tasting tobacco 
is TOASTED to taste even better! 
So light up a Lucky! You can look 
forward to the best-tasting cigarette 
you ever smoked!
DROODLES, Copyright 1963 by Roger Price
BUG AWAITING FATE ON 
PHONOGRAPH RECORDRichard Spector Harvard
APPETIZER FOR 
FIRE EATER
Gerald Escott 
Northeastern U.
LIICKIES TASTE BETTER -Cleaner, fresher, Smoother7
**??vnyxuy Americas leading manufacturer of cigarettes$A.T.Co. PRODUCT OF

---------------------------------------------------

Pae CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 8, 195
PACKS MORE 
PLEASURE
because its More Perfectly Packed!
FABULOUSLY FUNNY ... UPROARIOUS!-0";.New T ork Times
THORNTON WILDER HAS A POSITIVE GENIUS FOR GETTING 
HOLD OF THE ESSENTIAL JOY OF ANYTHING HE TOUCHES 
. . . AND GALES OF LAUGHTER ROARED BACK!' 
FANTASTIC COMEDY . . . WONDERFULLY FUNNY!"
' The New Yorker Mciooiirit
RUTH EUEEN LOR INC
GORDON HERLIE SMITH
THORNTON WADER'S Mtarl...
yETsu
Diracfd by
TYRONE GUTHRIE 
ROYALE THEATRE
43th St. W. of Bway, N.Y.C
Call Day
[Continued, from page 1] 
Jack Walker, and Stan Zawadowicz.
Cwens: Janet Felmeth, Nancie 
Redpath, Mary Ellen Timmons, 
Natalie Laird, Beth Liden, Nancy 
Edgar, Jo Todes, Helen Weber, 
Ruth Vysoky, Marian Chleboski, 
Beverly Salvatore, Sara Linsay, 
Regina Danculi, Luellen Fields, 
Dorothy Beehner, Carol Sooby, 
Mary Jane Stevens, Cathy Engle, 
Cissy Rafferty, and Sylvia Garfinkel.
Alpha Phi Omega: Robert Har
rington, Richard W. Carman, Don
ald L. Struminger, and Ronald 
Beaumariage.
Claymore Clan: Eugene Clayton, 
Donald Davis, Timothy Day, An
drew Dick, Kenneth Duronio, 
Richard Hamilton, Richard Horte, 
Edgar Holsten, William Mowry, 
James McWilliams, William Minert, and Victor Schmidt.
Pi Delta Epsilon: Bob Garrison, 
Peggy Heath, Jean Walker, Carl 
Arendt, Larry Wilbur, Rick Hor
ton, Ed Rogers, Marty Ostroff, 
Dave Stea, Neil Berstein, and 
Dusty Wassermann.
Phi Kappa Phi: Ivy Hill, Nancy 
Bloom, Grace McAllister, Janice 
Renshaw, Mary McClure, Evelyn 
Alessio, Stephanie Mackay, John 
Fisher, Conrad Susa, Charmaine 
Bishkoff. David Harrington, Terry 
Sharp, John Leonard, Kenneth 
Davies. Louis Salvador, Under
wood Dudley, David Stea, Peter 
Carruthers, Lewis Edward Johns, 
John Fleming, Richard Aiken, 
Robert Russell, John Burchard, 
Regis Herbst, Clarence Schmidt, 
William Mowry, and Louis Matter.
Tau Betrv Pi: Dick Aiken, Jacob 
Belkin, John Burchard, Peter Car
ruthers, Walter Christiansen, 
David Clement, Kenneth Davies, 
John Hall, Lewis Johns, John 
Leonard, Steven Mapes, Bob Rus
sell, Louis Salvador, Norman 
Smilek, and David Stea.
Tau Sigma Delta: David Bond, 
James Knox, Richard Fudge, Al
lan Anderson, David Scott, Carl 
Detwiler, Ruth Harris, Robert Ballantine, Walter McCormick, Rich
ard Oden, and Betty Whitmyre.
Student Council Awards: Her
bert Kreindler, Charles Schaul, 
Mary Langdon, John Recker, Ken
neth Draper, John Leonard, Wil
Printers Hold 
Annual Picnic
Carnegie Tech printers will 
close out their spring social season 
with the annual Printers Picnic, 
festive fiasco of the year, this Fri
day, May 11.
Food, fun and frolic will be 
served up in quantity to ticket 
holders ($1.50 per person, availa
ble from any senior printer), from
2 p.m. until far into the night at 
the main lodge in North Park. All 
printers and friends (especially 
female) are cordially urged to at
tend.
In,recognition of the leadership 
of Tech in graphic arts education, 
the class of 56 will honor the 
printing management school fac
ulty with an original interpreta
tive stage production, probing the 
deeper meanings of graphic arts 
education.
VACATION
JOBS
For men who rate high in 
the appearance and aggres
siveness departments. Pleas
ant daily contact with cus
tomers of an old, established 
AAA-A1 concern.
Many of those hired now 
will be invited to remain on 
part time or permanent basis 
in the fall with considerably 
above average incomes. Car 
furnished. $100 weekly guar
anteed if you qaulify.
Phone Mr. Thomas. 
ATlantic 1-8460
Satisfy Y)urself with* a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke 
packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray
The more perfectly pocked youf To the touch ... to the taste, firm and pleasing to the lips
Cigarette, the more pleasure it an Accu-Ray Chesterfield satis- ... mild yet deeply satisfying to 
gives . . . and Accu-Ray packs fies the most... burns more the taste - Chesterfield alone is 
Chesterfield far more perfectly, evenly, smokes much smoother, pleasure-packed by Accu-Ray.
CHESTERFIELD
MILD, YET THEY ^atidkf /
UO FHLHTT ft Mviu YamRHHa Ca
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE . . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES]
Campus Cleaners
liam Minkler, Diane Farrington, 
Eugene Burke, Peter Urbach, 
Richard Major, Paul Berger, Har
vey Breverman, Barbara Hudacek, 
Barbara Moore, John Kestner, 
Clarence Schmidt, Robert Russell, 
George Lang, James Boyd, Carolyn 
Copp, Victor Shiry, Joel Levinson, 
Michael Pollock, Mary Tinker, 
Barbara Kerr, Mollie Rudj, Rich
ard Oden, John Herr, Stephanie 
Mackay, Judy Hirschfield, William 
Moore, Theodore Hatch, James 
Tilbrook, Daniel OConnor, Ronald 
Draper, and Luis de la Macorra.
Alpha Phi Omega Service Keys: 
William Moore, Claude Gibble,
Jesse Erhard, William Wilcox, and 
William Krauss.
The individual awards were: 
Edward McDonald Award to Bob 
Russell; Pi Delta Epsilon Pub
lications Award to Ed Feigenbaum; Junior Pan-Hellenic Award 
to Delta Gamma for the highest 
scholarship among the fall pledge 
classes; Tartan Awards to Mike 
Pascarella for the intramural 
award and Jim Boyd for the var
sity award; Mortax Board Schol
arship to Alma McCloud and Sara 
Zide; Varsity C Club Scholar
ship to Bill Wittman.
The Alumni Fund prizes for es
says on community problems were 
awarded by Dr. Paape of the his
tory department. Honorable Men
tion was given to Harold Stessel, 
J. Howard Snoke, and Glen Har
ris. Third prize- was awarded to 
William Mowry. Also receiving 
third prize were Bob Lindsay and 
Joe Redding for their paper. Sec
ond prize went to John Barclay and Ed Feigenbaum. Melvin 
Mister also received second place. 
First prize was awarded to Wil
liam C. Schall, a sophomore chem
ical engineer.
Theyre oversleeping in Besenello, Italy. The village church 
Bell Ringer went on strike for 
more pay. * / *
