s
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 52NUMBER 9 NOVEMBER 19, 1958
Skibos Stop Titans 
To Close Season
By George Paris
A spirited Carnegie Tech football team took the field, a 
several point underdog, to the undefeated Westminster 
Titans, but upset the statisticians by pulling through with a 
6-0 victory.
It was a great victory for the Tartans who had an im
pressive 5-2 record going into the#S
e although they had suffered 
ats at the hands of Indiana 21 
and Geneva by a 40 to 6 score.
[Westminster had trounced these 
Isame teams by 34 to 7, and 7 to 0 
[scores respectively.
Halfback McElliheny 
Senior halfback Leroy McElli|heny was the big gun for the Tar[tans as he gained 121 yards more 
[than the entire Westminster team 
rushing, and scored Techs touchiwn on a sensational 41 yard run.f
ither team moved well the 
quarter on the muddy field.
IThe driving rain hampered both 
teams passing attacks and the 
[backs could not run and cut well 
|in the soft mud.
Second Quarter 
In the second quarter, McEllileny intercepted a Best wick pass 
Sk the Westminster 41 yard line.
|On the first play from scrimmage,
[continued on page 7]
3 iiimmer Jobs 
pen Abroad
Summer positions abroad are 
vailable to engineering and sci
ence students through the services 
|of the International Association 
or the Exchange of Students for 
nical Experience, 
though students cannot save 
oney, their only direct expense 
s travel, for the companies pay a 
alary that covers ordinary living 
xpenses. The I.A.E.S.T.E. proides reduced plane rates for those 
eaving New York on June 15 and 
eturning there September 10. 
Many Positions 
Many mechanical, electrical, 
hemical, and civil engineering po'i^ns are available. There are 
1 limited opportunities in chem
istry, physics, and architecture.
Four Tech students were among 
he 84 Americans who worked 
through this program last sum
mer. They are: Charles Croco, 
E.E.; David De Paolis, M.E.; 
Theresa Iapalucci, Chemistry; and 
Nathaniel Teich, P.M. Their po
sitions were in Germany, Greece, 
Great Britain, and Finland.
interested students should conta Mr. W. Forstall, mechanical 
engineering department before 
hTauary 1, 1959.
Inside
page> Banbury Cross??I Med of the Week. page
?
I Cultural Column, .page?
 Intramural News, .page
?
I Readers Write... .page <
?
! Sports ................page
Sigma Alpha Iota 
Holds State Day 
On November 15
By Natalie Laird
Alpha Mu, the Carnegie Tech 
chapter of Sigma Alpha Iota, a 
professional fraternity for women 
in the field of music, was host to 
Pennsylvania State Day last No
vember 15. Working with the 
Pittsburgh Alumnae Chapter, the 
members planned a day filled with 
organizational and musical activi
ties.
On Friday evening, November 
14, the members of Sigma Alpha 
Iota were the guests of Mrs. Eu
nice Norton at piano recital spon
sored by the New Friends of 
Music. Mrs. Norton is an honor
ary lifetime member of Sigma 
Alpha Iota, and was presented at 
the close of the concert with the 
traditional red rose by Mrs. James 
Cameron, the president of Eta 
Province.
Saturday activities began early 
with a registration and coffee hour 
from 9:00 to 10:00 in GSIA. The 
formal opening of the business 
session was conducted by the 
Pittsburgh Alumnae chapter.
Following a welcome by the 
president of Alpha Mu, a panel 
of presidents discussion of Fra
ternity Problems and Projects lead 
by Mrs. Cameron occupied the rest 
of the morning. Represented on 
this panel were Alpha Mu, CIT; 
Alpha Nu, Dana School of Music, 
Youngstown, Ohio; Iota Nu, Seton 
Hill College, Greensburg, Pa.; 
Sigma Omega, Susquehanna Uni
versity, Selinsgrove, Pa.; and Al
umnae chapters from Pittsburgh, 
[continued on page 8]
F reshmen
All freshmen who have ex
pressed the desire to work in 
Student Congress are invited 
to attend this afternoons Stu
dent Congress meeting in Por
ter Hall at 4:30. On the basis 
of committee reports present
ing activities for the year, the 
freshmen may select a com
mittee with which they would 
like to work as apprentices.
What About the Men?
March Of Dimes Fund Drive 
Aided By CIT Pledge Classes
By Paul Hess
The efforts of the Junior Council of Fraternity PresiMrs. Virginia Milligan 
New Dean of Women
President Warner has announced the appointment of 
Mrs. Virginia B. Milligan, the new dean of women. She 
will assume office on February 1, and will replace Mrs. 
Raymond E. Parshall who last year became >acting dean of 
women, pending a new appointment, when Dean Martha E.
------------------------------------------------------#Foy resigned.
Mrs. Milligan has been the as
sistant dean of women at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh since 1954.
She is a graduate of Westminster
College, and holds a M.A. in re
ligious education from the Bibli
cal Seminary in New York. She 
has done advanced work in stu, . . , . , dent personnel administration atdents to organize a publicity-gaining charity project for Syracuse University.
pledge classes have resulted in a promising campaign, with since 1955 Mrs. Milligan has
the March of Dimes. been president of the Western
The fund drive will take the form of a city-wide solici- Penn^'1 vaa Association of Wom-_ .J j en Deans, Counselors and Person-tation for the charity on the streets nej workers. She is also a memEfficient Methods 
For Publicizing 
Activities Discussed
Efficient methods for publiciz
ing organizational activities were 
discussed in the publicity seminar 
sponsored last Wednesday after
noon by Student Congress and the 
campus publications. Dick Brand, 
chairman of the Student Congress 
publicity committee, headed the 
seminar.
Dick Wiley and Carol Sooby, co
editors of the Tartan, distributed 
instructions for writing announce
ments and articles for the Tartan. 
Jan Notopoulos, assistant news 
editor, stressed the fact that ad
vance notice should be given no 
later than the Tuesday of the 
week preceding publication in 
order to have a Tartan reporter 
assigned to cover publicity.
Deadlines
Tartan deadline3:00 p.m. Fri
days on the bulletin board of Skibo or 4:30 Fridays in the Tartan 
office, third fioor or the Union 
were also announced.
Wes Kasonic' of WRCT suggest[continued on page 8]
Carnegie Tech To Be 
Mortar Board Hostess
By Mary Anne Gaertner 
The Eta chapter of Mortar Board at Carnegie Tech will 
be hostess for the Mortar Board section two meeting during 
the weekend of December 5 and 6.
The attending delegates will be gathering to discuss 
problems of mutual interest such as, The function of Mor
tar Board as a policy-making#-----------------------------------------------------
group, and Interaction between 
Mortar Board and the Adminis
tration, and to provide an ex
change of ideas between chapters..
Under the general chairmanship 
of Mary Jo Hill of Tech and Tech 
chapter president, Fran Bebic, ap
proximately 50 delegates from 
seven member chapters at Pitt, 
Chatham, Penn State, Swarthmore, Bucknell and the University 
of Pennsylvania will participate 
in the convention.
The representatives will be 
housed at Morewood Gardens and 
private homes in Pittsburgh. 
Morewood will also serve as the 
location for an informal reception 
held Friday evening.
The tentative schedule for Sat
urday will include morning reg
istration at 9:30 a.m., followed by 
an address from Carol Junge, the 
section director from New York, 
after which informal discussion 
groups will be formed to examine 
some of the problems posed by 
Miss Junge yi her speech.
Following a luncheon in the 
Blue Room, the afternoon general 
meeting will be held during which 
discussion group reports, chapter 
reports and an inter-chapter 
swap session will terminate in a 
question and answer period. The 
section meeting will adjourn at 
4:00 p.m.
of downtown Pittsburgh between 
Christmas vacation and final ex
ams. The campaign is planned to 
require only one Saturday after
noon, but in that short time a 
wealth of publicity may be gained.
' March Of Dimes
The assistance of the March of 
Dimes will accomplish one of the 
objectives of the Junior council 
that of demonstrating to area 
residents that fraternity pledges of 
Carnegie Tech are not groups of 
trouble-makers but young adults 
with mature, unselfish attitudes. 
The councils second function is 
to act as a coordinating agent be
tween pledge classes. Plans for a 
social event for pledges are under
way and will be announced soon. 
By this event the members of each 
class will have an opportunity to 
meet and mingle with their fellow 
students who have pledged other 
fraternities.
An important first for this years 
council will be the adoption of a 
constitution and by-laws parallel
ing that of the senior council. 
This must result In a more pow
erful and efficient organization.
Each Tech fraternity is repre
sented on the junior council either 
by tlje president of its pledge class 
or another elected delegate. The 
members of the Council are ATO, 
Bill Ellis; Beta Theta Pi, Roger 
Zitko; Delta Tau Delta, Rick 
Remer; Delta Upsilon, Murray 
Naditch; Kappa Sigma, Jim Duffy; 
Phi Kappa, Jim Kline; PiKA, Paul 
Hess; SAE, Paul Garvin; Sigma 
Nu, Mike Ames; Tau Delta Phi, 
Sam Bernhard; Theta Xi, Les Gelles.
The officers of the council are 
Paul Hess, president; Sam Bernhard, vice-president, and Bill Ellis, 
secretary-treasurer.
ber of the Pennsylvania State As
sociation of University Women.
Panliel Plans 
Annual Formal
The Pittsburgh Room of the 
Penn-Sheraton Hotel will be the 
setting for the annual Panhellenic 
Council Formal to be held this 
Saturday evening, November 22, 
from 9:30 to 12:30.
Tommy Carlyns band, consist
ing of ten pieces and featuring a 
vocalist, has been engaged to play 
for the dance.
One-Thirtys
Morewood Gardens* residents
School Assembly
Chancellor Litchfield of the 
University of Pittsburgh, who 
was unable to speak at the 
October 28 all-school assem
bly will address the Tech as
sembly on December 2, on 
Higher Education in the 
IJ.S.S.R.
Due to Thanksgiving Recess, 
there will be no assembly next 
week.
Tommy Carlin
will have 1:30 permissions for the 
formal. Attendance at the dance 
is limited to Tech sorority mem
bers and their guests.
Panhellenic Council, the gov
erning body of Techs seven na
tional sororities, is also planning 
two functions this semester to ac
quaint freshmen women with so
rority members.
The first of these affairs will be 
the annual Meet the Greeks par
ty December 14 which is spon
sored by Junior Panhel. In Jan
uary a second similar function will 
be held.

---------------------------------------------------

Fre 2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 19, 195S
CJLegiate
C^u(tura(
C^alenchar
By Barb Jones
The Phipps Conservatory in 
Schenley Park is widely known 
for its flower shows. From now 
through November 30 the 64th 
annual exhibition, a part of the 
Pittsburgh Bicentennial celebra
tion is in progress. There is no 
admission charge during the day
and a nominal charge during the 
evenings. The daily hours includ
ing Sundays and Thanksgiving 
Day are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and 7 
p.m. to 10 p.m.
Art
Chatham College is also doing 
its part in celebrating the Pitts
burgh Bicentennial. They are 
showing an exhibit honoring Wil
liam Pitt entitled An Exhibition 
of Art and Letters of the First 
Earl of Chatham for the next 
year. Needless to say but the Earl 
is none other than Chathams 
namesake, Charles LeClair, head 
of Chathams art department and 
a noted artist himself, has done a 
great deal to make this showing 
an outstanding one.
*TM Talks
A discussion of current events 
is the highlight of the Y coffee 
hour, held Tuesdays at 3:30 p.m. 
in Skibo.
Headed by Professors Houghteling and Schaefer, the weekly 
meetings derive their topics from 
recent news events. The major 
issues of the world have been 
touched upon. The group has dis
cussed the situation in China, the 
France-Algeria problem, labor re
lations, segregation, and the pre
dicted actions of the new, pre
dominantly Democratic Congress.
An open invitation to all stu
dents is extended for the new cur
rent events discussion group. The 
bulletin board on the cut will have 
posters advertising the topic of 
the next discussion.
HU lei
Hillel announces a new work
shop of Israeli folk songs and 
dances. The first meeting will be 
today, Wednesday, November 19, 
in the Morewood Gardens recration room from 6:00 to 7:00 p.m. 
Instruction will be provided by 
members of Hillel and no previous 
experience is necessary. Anyone 
interested in a truly exciting ex
perience is cordially invited.
Newman Club
From November 21 to November 
23, the MAP sponsored School of 
Catholic Thought will meet in 
Hershey, Pa. The topic of discus
sion will be marriage. Anyone in
terested in attending should con
tact Dick Fitzgerald.
Newman Hall is open every Fri
day night for the use of its mem
bers.
Thursday, November 20, the 
Tech drama department will pre
sent its third production of the 
year. It is a contemporary play 
written by Charles Morgan en
titled, The River Line, and di
rected by Mary Morris. This play 
will run through December 5. You 
can easily obtain tickets for any 
night you desire by presenting 
your student identification card 
to the secretary of the fine arts 
department.
The Theater Guild is presenting 
Celeste Holm in Third Best 
Sport, a new comedy by Eleanor 
and Leo Bayer, at the Nixon 
Theater this week. The box office 
manager said that it received ex
cellent reviews in Detroit for its 
audience appeal. The evening 
performances begin at 8:30 p.m., 
the Wednesday matinee at 2:00 
[continued on page 5]
General Studies Seminar
Professor James L. Houghteling 
of the department of economics, 
will speak and lead a discussion 
on desegregation in the public 
schools at a General Studies sem
inar, tomorrow, Thursday, No
vember 20, at 3:30 p.m. in the 
Recreation Hall, MMCC (fourth 
floor).
WRCT
WRCT will have its annual staff 
party in Black Cat Lounge at 8
- 12 p.m. this Saturday, Novem
ber 22.
This year's party will feature 
swimming in the Tech pool, danc
ing in the Black Cat Lounge, and 
refreshments. Members are en
couraged to bring dates. All card 
carrying members, new staffers 
(without cards, but on the active 
operating list) and their dates will 
be admitted free.
One of the purposes of the party 
is to acquaint the old members 
with the prospectives so they 
can vote on their membership 
later in the spring.
Coed Of L Wei
Carolyn Hyatt
Senior Secretarial Major
Entry Blank 
Coed of the Week Contest
Name ............
Address ........
Phone ..........
Submitted by
THEY SAID IT COULDNT BE DONE-BUT TODAY'S L*M GIVES YOUThey said it couldnt be 
done! Only a few years 
ago, the four-minute mile 
seemed unattainable.But 
on May 6,1954, the barrier 
was shattered, and since 
then, the feat has been 
repeated again and again. 
Last summer five men 
bettered four minutes in 
one race!
DON'T SETTLE FOR ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER!
Change to L*M and get em both. Such an improved, filter and more taste! Better 
taste than in any other cigarette. Yes, todays CM combines these two essentials 
of modern smoking enjoymentless tars and more taste-in one great cigarette.
INTO THAT LIVE MODERN FLAVOR!LIGHT
 UGtn * MYERS TOBACCO CO., !&

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 19, 195CARNEGIE TARTANPage 1
A$ph a Phi Omega 
Performs Many 
Campus Services
By Bob Cleveland
Another A Phi O Service . . . 
Let's take a look at whats be
hind this well-known symbol.
Alpha Phi Omega is a national 
gjfcyee fraternity made up solely 
of men with previous experience 
in the Boy Scouts of America.
National Goals
The national goals of A Phi O 
are: service to self; service to stu
dent body and faculty; service to 
the youth of the community; and 
service to the nation as partici
pating citizens. The Kappa chapter 
hJfce at Tech is one of 304 chaptef^at four-year colleges fostering 
these enivable goals across this 
nation.
Service to the student body and 
faculty is of prime importance to 
A Phi O. The degree of this service 
naturally varies in degree from 
campus to campus, but we at Tech 
are fortunate in having a chapter 
Tjjtjfh believes in its avowed purpfflP.
Property Custodian
A Phi O is the custodian of Stu
dent Congress poverty. They su
pervise the distribution of this 
property which consists of lights, 
related electrical equipment, scaf
folding, coat racks, and decorating 
materials.
i
Another function vital to Conperformed by A Phi O is 
that of being responsible for con
ducting all elections pertinate to 
student government.
A Phi O also checks coats and 
sells pop at various campus events, 
the proceeds of which are used to 
foster non-income services. These 
services include telephone pads in 
the dorms, Share the Ride cards 
n Skibo, and a lost-and-found 
rvice.
^rhaps one of A Phi Os most 
widely recognized accomplish
ments is their function of compil
ing the C Book, our campus di
rectory.
UMOC Contest
Another accomplishment in this 
category is A Phi Os UMOC Con
test (Ugliest Man on Campus) 
which is conducted in conjunction 
with the yearly Campus Chest
impaign.
* immediately becomes obvi
ous to me that we could hardly get 
along without A Phi O on our 
campus. I hope that everyone will 
join me when I say, Thank you, 
Alpha Phi Omega.
arner Defines 
i^arnegie Plan
President Warner presented a 
post Geneva Conference evalua
tion of Carnegie Techs educa
tional plans when he met with 
the Buffalo and Niagara Falls 
alumni clans at the Park-Lane Ho
tel in Buffalo.
Dr. Warner, who recently served 
as a member of the United States 
Relegation to the second United 
jgjpns international conference 
on peaceful uses of atomic energy, 
held in Geneva, Switzerland, sum
marized the most significant re
sults of the Conference. He then 
gave his appraisal of how Carnegie 
Techs educational program pre
pares young men and women to 
heelp America toward a position 
of leadership in the atomic age.
Dr. Warner has recently been 
"e-apppinted, by President EisenlOj^r, for a six year term as a 
fntffber of the General Advisory 
ommittee of the Atomic Energy 
ommission. He was originally 
aPPointed to the same position in 
1952 by then president Harry Tru
man. Dr. Warner is a member of 
the National Academy of Sciences 
and a former president of the 
American Chemical Society.
Inquiring Reporter
lio Wears Glamour Gams?
By Lex Baker
In an attempt to find relief from the purge of current 
events and campus scandals, your inquiring reporter thought 
an interesting survey could be conducted among the male 
population based on a question of the multi-colored glam
our gams which have become a popular fad among college 
women in the past year. ?------------------------------------------
Question: What is your main Bill Evarts, senior, IM: I have 
criticism or compliment for, heard through a source downglamour gams?  | town that one of the larger de
partment stores is introducing 
gray flannel glamour gams with 
stripes and buckles on the tops, 
(to hold them up, I guess). But 
after considering this, I have de
cided that the market on this 
style, for some reason or another, 
would not be great enough in 
Pittsburgh. On the other hand, 
girls as they are in Pittsburgh, I 
think the buckleless brands are 
preferable.
Dan Snyder, sophomore, Phys
ics: I like girls, what else can I
Ron Barron, senior, P&D: Well, 
I dont recommend them for 
skinny girls, and I dont recom
mend them for heavy girls, but 
medium-sized girls can wear 
them because they call attention 
to their legs and at least they 
dont fall down like those old 
knee sox and I like the variety of 
colors and they look better than 
no sox at all and they must be 
warm and the Morewood girls 
wont catch'colds this winter be
cause of them.
say?"
Nat Teich, senior, PM: They 
will never replace real glamour!"
Ray Nix, junior, Physics: Men
must keep the women happy, and 
since the coeds of Tech like 
glamour gams, we cant object. 
We can at least get nearer to 
girls in glamour gams than if the 
current fad was hoop skirts.
Lou Pondy, senior, Physics:
Ive been asked to comment 
(by a hesitant and rather embar
rassed Inquiring Reporter) on 
some items referred to commonly 
| as glamour gams, a name pre
viously unknown to me, though I 
was aware of the existence of 
these colorful deceptors of the 
roving male eye. Deceptors, by 
jove, because they cover the very 
object which their nature is de
signed to attract. In short, girls, 
give the fellows enough credit not 
to need those atrocious colors to 
attract the male attention. Down 
with glamour gams!
Bruce Burleson, freshman, 
Music, I think that the glamour 
gams emphasize the legs that are 
mishapen, and make the ones that 
are naturally well-formed look 
I like heck! I say collect them all 
in one big pile and burn them!
Arts Library 
Op ens Dec, 7
The Fine Arts Branch Library
will not be open this Sunday due 
to Thanksgiving recess.
It will again open on Sunday, 
December 7, from 2-5 p.m. for 
those students who desire a quiet 
place for study. Material may be 
used in the library, though only 
two week books may circulate.
Fines can not be paid on Sun
day. Overdue books should be re
turned on Monday to the library 
from which they were borrowed, 
since cash payment allows one a 
fifty per cent discount on the 
fine.
The library is temporarily open 
on Sunday as a result of student 
requests through Student Congresss since none of Techs lib
raries were open on this day. If 
no more students show interest in 
using the library than have to 
date, the experiment will end with 
the Christmas recess.
at texas instruments, you can apply your graduate specialty 
under conditions of substantial freedom. Explore scientific 
horizons with outstanding associates... using facilities that 
permit work of highest technical caliber. Expand your pro
fessional potential in free exchange of ideas... in an atmos
phere where you and your work are recognized as vital.
Favorable research climate is a major factor in the swift growth 
of this 28-year-old company whose sales rate has increased 
20-fold over the last decade. Recognition of individual talent 
and achievement has helped Texas Instruments grow to be 
one of the 500 largest industrial companies in the country. 
To pace TIs leadership, the Central Research Laboratory will 
soon move its expanding scientific community into a new build
ing designed to establish an even finer creative environment.
Avail yourself of this opportunity for self-expression in creative 
research. In addition, enjoy TI's generous personnel benefits as 
well as encouragement and assistance in personal develop
ment. TI labs are in the city yet away from downtown traffic 
... within minutes of fine residential areas, cultural activities, 
churches, highly rated schools and, of course, year-round out
door recreation in the pleasant climate of the Southwest.
* While commercial application in the low temperature field is only a 
possibility, it is so closely related to TIs activities that we are 
engaged in a broad, basic approach to the problems involved. This 
activity is only one of some 20 subjects now under study at Texas 
Instruments  covering basic and applied research in data systems 
and earth sciences, solid state physics, materials, and devices; con
centrating on semiconductors, electroluminescence, ferromagnetics, 
magnetic resonance, superconductivity, dielectrics, infrared, geo
physics, computers, memories, and transistors plus physico-chemical 
studies J diffusion, alloying, crystal growth, and crystalline perfection.
choose your future
ASIC AND APPLIED RESEARCH  CENTIAL RESEARCH LABORATORY. MS and PhD level
concentrating on semiconductors, electronic components and system*, 
military apparatus, data handling, geophysics.
RESEARCH AMD ENGINEERING SEMICONDUCTOR COMPONENTS DIVISION. Transistors,
diodes, rectifiers, capacitors, transistor circuit applications, test equipment, 
mechanization.
RESEARCH ANO ENGINEERING - APPARATUS Division Radar, sonar, infrared, magnetic 
detection; computers, timers, telemetering, intercom, optics, microwave 
systems; transformers, lenses.
ooms and grow with us
A Texas Instruments representative will be on the campus in R few days 
to give you more details. Please contact your placement office before-*
*
NOVEMBER 20
VOLUM E5M2NBO52M
INCORPORATED
*
I

---------------------------------------------------

Fae 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 19, 1958
Editorial
Parking?  Where?
The fact that parking space is at a pre
mium in the vicinity of the Tech campus on 
schools days is no secret to most of CITs 
commuters. Especially crowded is the park
ing lot opening on Forbes street near the cut.
Most of the time this lot is jammed full of 
carsthe late comers often parking in the 
driveways and blocking other properly 
parked cars!
The Tartan finds this inconsiderate action 
on the part of some of Techs students inex
cusable. A scant half block further down 
Forbes, the school has provided a very large 
parking lot. This lot, located behind Morewood Gardens, is rarely more than half full. 
Hopefully, such a condition as this is caused 
by ignorance on the part of the offending 
students rather than lack of enough energy 
at 8:15 in the morning to walk the few hun
dred extra feet.
It should also be possible for the people 
who consistently park on both sides of Devon 
Road to park in this lot. For, with the ap
proach of the winter season, it becomes in
creasingly difficult for our campus neighbors 
on Devon Road to maneuver their cars down 
the steep slope through the narrow opening 
left when cars are parked on both sides of 
the street.
The Administration has tried to fill the 
need for adequate parking for the faculty 
and students. Surely the fine new lot on the 
Edwards property is close enough to the cam
pus to help fill this need.
CITs Budget
By John Olmsted and Bill Rich
This article is the first of what the authors 
hope will become a weekly feature of the Tartan, 
presenting facts and opinions on topics ranging 
from administrative policy to the philosophy of 
student activities
A perennial topic of student bull sessions 
is the apportionment of school funds for 
various improvements and for student serv
ices. For example, questions concerning the 
wisdom of constructing dormitories rather 
than improving laboratory facilities are often 
brought up. The information presented here 
was obtained in an interview with Mr. H. 
R. Patton, Controller and Business Manager.
In this interview two general questions 
were asked by Mr. Patton; the first con
cerning the distribution of operating funds 
among the departments, and the second con
cerning the sources and utilization of funds 
for student services.
(Continued on Page 7)
I SO
I HcUlGli
If![OIV*
;'IliSiReaders Write ^
Publicity
Editor, the Tartan:
In the October 14 issue your ed
itorial managed to persuade me 
that general apathy existing at 
Tech was the result of those 
leaders whose responsibility it 
was failed to publicize their 
projects in the Tartan.
Your article implied that there 
was an easy solution to this state 
of affairs (i.g.Techs apathy) 
which consisted of writing news 
articles for your paper. I am one 
of a small group of students who 
used the facilities of the Fine Arts 
library this Sunday; I found it 
an ideal place to study, away 
from the usual Sunday p.m. hubub 
f the dorms. But I understand 
that Sunday study hall is only 
temporary; If only a few attend 
each time it will not be continued 
after Christmas. And the students
ways crowded on their 2 to 5 Sun
day stint). I for one am in favor 
of a shorter walk, (especially in 
winter) and I know there are 
others who, if they only knew, 
would agree.
The point is, they dont; And 
why? I happened to hear it an
nounced in Student Congress meet
ing. Others I asked either heard 
it by word of mouth or from the 
librarian. There were no posters 
in Skibo, the libraries, or any
where else. There was no an
nouncement from the department, 
or from anyone. Only two issue of 
the Tartan carried thee news.
Evidently, someone else was 
taken in by your clever request for 
news articles. Did the Student 
Congress Publicity Committee, un
der Dick Brand, chirman, fall or 
did he just put unwarranted faith 
in the Tartan. When I casually 
asked several students if they had 
read about the Sunday study hall,
Noble Fulfillment
It is not often that one sees visitors from 
the Engineering or Management sections of 
the school within the confines of the Fine 
Arts building. This seems a great pity, for 
the Fine Arts School has much to offer by 
way of diversion and instruction. It contains 
those people and activities aimed at mak
ing the future existence of the engineer and 
businesman worth while.
Admittedly, much fortitude is needed to 
get through the building. The first floors are 
filled with elegant seekers after the truth 
through drama. (The best thing to do is to 
ignore them. They will become furious and 
perform even more impressively.) As the 
visitor moves upstairs to the mezzanine he 
is overwhelmed by a jungle of sound issuing 
from a small corridor of little rooms contain
ing a soprano, two alto saxes, an Irish tenor, 
and eight pianos. On the second floor there 
is always the danger of being slashed by a 
sharpened frisbee or crushed by a class head
ing out for coffee at Skibo. And no matter 
how old his shirt or beat his attitude, the 
visitor will always have the feeling of being 
terribly formal and overdressed when he 
finally gets through to the third floor.
But these things are unimportant and 
should not deter any man from exploring the 
activities of the school. There are not only 
the major productions given in the main the
atre, but there are interesting student run 
works produced in the studio in back of 
Skibo. The visitor is surely wecome to walk 
through the architecture department and 
ask questions of friends working there. The 
corridor of the P and D floor usually has 
student work on display.
If sometimes there seems too much con
ceit and eccentricity for the average person 
to take, remember that this is a necessary 
part of the creative life when it is led in 
highly competative surroundings. And let us 
be thankful that in this era of conformity, 
boosterism, gray flannel, and industrial grime, 
there are men with the courage to question, 
to doubt, to praise and to worship in drama
and in music: that there are men with the
vision and strength to see beyond the imme
diate mess of our existence to new concep_ ? tions of what our environment
ought to be and how we ought
to live together: that there are
men who dare to show us with 
canvas and clay and metal, as we 
are and as we should be. The fu
ture is not so much located with 
the young psychologists who learn 
the control of mens minds, or 
with the engineers who learn to 
make better light, longer bridges 
and bigger bombs; but with the 
men who willingly place a part of 
themselves on the stage or on can
vas so that the individual might 
find a more noble fulfillment, and 
with those men who create beauty 
out of brick and steel so that man 
might enjoy a more harmonious 
existence. Blenheim.
I
who requested it will just have to 1 they answered, but who reads the 
pick up their books and migrate j Tartan? or I didnt see that! 
to the city library (which is al-I Icontinued on page 5]
Congratulations
Editor, the Tartan:
I would like to congratulate the 
football team for the magnificent 
exhibition of sportsmanship and 
fighting spirit it has shown in the 
two final games this season. Re
bounding from an ignominious de
feat at Homecoming to win two 
victories over highly rated teams, 
the Tech squad has proved that it 
is, without doubt, one of the finest 
small-college teams in Western 
Pennsylvania.
[continued on page 5]
<*CARNEGI|s:
TARTAN
s^CARNA NCEGNGIGA ST GAsUCSOSRF
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13 
Pa. Office phone, MU 2-4557; Co-Editors EM 1-7157 and MU 2-9053 
Advertising Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the sch<xj 
year except holidays and examination periods by the students Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Co-Editor ..................................................................................................................... C*ro|j|'^
Co-Editor  .................................................... ...................................................  Richar<S^Vj]t
Associate Editor ................................................................................................................ David Do]
Business Manager ....................................................................................................... Michael Bi
News Editor .......................................................................................................................... Tom Bi*
Sporta Editor ................................................................................................................ George Pari
Copy Editor .................................................................................................................. Jerry Solliv
Second class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
OnCamjws
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek)
THE CLOTHES YOU SAVE MAY BE YOUR OWN
In this column we take up fashions for college men, which means 
of course, the Ivy Look. Todays Ivy Look clothes have made a 
great stride forward. Not only do they have thin lapels, three but- y 1 
tons, narrow trousers, and a minimum of shoulder padding, bu X)> I 
now hear this!this year they are actually covered with ivy!
This new development, while attractive beyond the singing 
of it, nevertheless gives rise to certain hazards. For instance, 
people keep trying to plant you on Arbor Day. Indeed, this is 
precisely what happened to two SAEs of my acquaintance, 
Walter R. Gurlash and Fred Rasp. Before they could protest, 
they were snatched up, planted, limed, and watered, and today 
they support a hammock in Cut and Shoot, Vermont.
Xtffle Xtty Wm io fmt M 'outbotV&Yi
Let us now discuss shirts. Again this year the campus favorite 
H? the good old Oxford with button-down collar and barrel 
cuffs. This is without doubt an admirable garment, but let me 
ask you a question: if you dont wear anything but Oxfords, 
what do you do with all the cuff links people have been giving 
you for your birthday since you were twelve years old?
Well sir, some fellows have their wrists pierced, but what 
Mackenzie Sigafoos, a Chi Psi of my acquaintance, did was to 
take a dozen pairs of his handsome gold monogrammed cuff 
links and string them together in a charm bracelet for his girl, 
Jo-Carol Isobar.
(It turned out, incidentally, to be a mistake. In short order 
so many admirers accrued to Jo-Carol on account of her gor
geous bracelet that she grew tired of plain old E. Mackenzie, 
and one night when she was seated on a bench in Lovers Lane 
throwing sticks for E. Mackenzie to retrieve, she suddenly, 
cruelly, without warning, told him they were through.
I am heartbroken/ said E. Mackenzie, heartbroken. BuiP 
if go you must, give me back my charm bracelet.?
.No, I will keep it, said Jo-Carol.
What for? said E. Mackenzie. You cant wear it. The 
initials on the cuff links are all mineE.M.S.
Ha, ha, the joke is on you, said Jo-Carol. Yesterday I was 
voted Miss Chinese Restaurant of 1958.
So? said E. Mackenzie.
So, replied Jo-Carol, E.M.S. does not stand for E. Mact 
kenzie Sigafoos. It stands for Eat More Subgum!.
A broken man, E. Mackenzie today squeezes out a meagre 
living as a pendulum in Cleveland. Jo-Carol was killed in a 
tong war.)
 But I digress. We were talking about well-dressed men, and the 
one essential for every well-dressed man and every well-dressed 
woman toois a well-dressed cigaretteneat, compact, flavor
ful, and correct for work or play, sunshine or shower, repose or 
revelry, darkness or light. And where does one find such a per
fect companion? Just go to any tobacco counter and ask for 
Philip Morris. Ask for it in long size or regular. Ask for it i|1) 
soft pack or hard. But ask for it; thats the important thing. 
Dont just stand there making cryptic gestures at your tobac
conist. . He may be armed. c m*. huim*.
Those of you who favor filters, try s filter that trill favor 
youMarlboro, made by the makers of Philip Morris, whj 
bring you this column throughout the school year.

---------------------------------------------------

5 Hillel Names 
''New Director
By Ann Richter
Rabbi Richard Rubenstein has 
been recently appointed Hillel Di
rector for Tech students.
A graduate of the University of 
Cincinnati, Rabbi Rubenstein was 
r ordained a Rabbi and received the 
W degree of Master of Hebrew Let
ters from the Jewish Theological 
Seminary in 1952. He was the 
first Rabbi to receive the degree 
of Master of Theology from Harv
ard University.
A Clapp Fellowship recipient, 
Rabbi Rubenstein is currently 
writing a thesis as a candidate for 
a PhD at Harvard in the field of 
history and philosophy of religion, 
jj, During his six-year stay at Harvard, he served as Rabbi of the 
Temple Beth Emunah and acted 
as chaplin for Harvard, Radcliff, 
and Wellesley.
Bnai Brith Director 
Coming to Tech from Harvard, 
Rabbi Rubenstein said, The thing 
that interested me is that when 
I left Harvard, I didnt think I 
could give a course of the same 
intellectual calibre, but I have%
 found the response even greater 
at Tech.
Rabbi Rubenstein is the director 
of the Bnai Brith Hillel Founda
tion in the Pittsburgh area, which 
includes about 2,000 Jewish stu
dents at Tech, Chatham, Duquesne, and Pitt.
Lecturer 
The Rabbi is presently deliv
ering a series of speeches on 
Freudism and Judiasm, and he is 
- also organizing a Tuesday evening 
discussion group to consider the
Congrats[continued from page 4]
It is significant that these last 
two victories; upsets if you want 
to call them that, were won away 
from home, without the support 
of the home fans. It shows that, 
> the team has guts, and will fight 
to win even when the odds say no 
and the stands are hostile.
A 6-2 record is not to be sneer
ed at. It is good, even better than 
that of last year when Tech field
ed one of its best teams in several 
years. Dr. Eddie Baker and the 
players, who gave up their eve
nings nearly every night for eight 
weeks to practice, deserve indeed 
the higher praise and commenda
tion for their effort and their success.
Edward H. Blum, ChE.-61
Cultural
[continued from page 2] 
p.m., and the Saturday matinee 
at 2:30 p.m.
Lost in the Stars is playing 
at the Playhouse Hamlet Street 
Theater until November 22. Skin 
of Our Teeth will open at the 
0 Playhouse Craft Avenue Theater 
on November 22 and run through 
December 12.
Once again, there will not be a 
Pittsburgh Symphony Concert 
this weekend for they are still 
touring the east; however, there 
will be concerts on the weekend 
of November 28-30. During the 
Thanksgiving weekend Eudice 
Shapior, a violin soloist, will be 
featured, and the program for 
^ that concert will include Webers 
Overture to Der Freischuetz, 
Mendelssohns Concerto in E 
minor for Violin and Orchestra, 
and Brahms Symphony No. 4 in 
E minor.
The Pittsburgh New Friends of 
Music, Inc., is presenting a Cham
ber Music Concert with the Vien
na Octet at the Carnegie Music 
Hall on November 22 at 8:30 p.m. 
On Saturday, November 29, Jo^ hann Martzy, a violinist, will be 
playing at the Carnegie Music 
Hall as part of the Music Guilds 
season program.
The famous Ballet Russe de 
Monte Carlo will be at the Syria 
Mosque on November 26, starting 
at 8:40 p.m. There is no doubt 
that this will be a magnificent 
performance, and one that will 
appeal to many of you.
Wednesday, November 19, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANP** 1
Publicity
[continued from page 4] 
My question is not who, but why 
they dont read it. And is the lack 
of intelligent news coverage that 
these people want due to lack of 
foresight on the part of our lead
ers, or is it simply that your staff 
is apathetic towards getting the 
news?
Though I realize that you must 
find it difficult putting up with 
amateurish quality, I sometimes 
wonder at the ingenuity of your 
staff, which manages to mispell, 
break up continuity, misquote or 
otherwise mangle, and finally 
bury the most interesting ar
ticles that are submitted with a 
dryer and less interesting mono
logue of inferior reporting. (Point 
of interest: See page two Tartan, 
10-29-58 or 11-5-58).
Blake Berning
relationship between the Chris
tians and the Jews.
In expressing his pleasure about 
th response to the lectures, Rabbi 
Rubenstein said, I didnt expect 
the continued high attendance of 
forty or fifty. He has lectured at 
Yale, Princeton, Dartmouth, Bos
ton University, Middlebury, and 
other leading colleges.
>ARROW^
first in fashion
ROBERT H. SWISHER, B.S.E.E., GROVE CITY COLLEGE, '54, SAYS:
I like my job. Here's why.
Im a radio transmission engineer for Bell Telephone 
Company of Pennsylvania. My work is interesting and 
full of variety, and I get all the responsibility I can 
handle. Have a look at today's assignment, for example 
 and see for yourself.
"8:30 a.m. I'm at my desk applying a new method for over- "10:45 a.m. Before any modifications can be made, its imporcoming interference on Pittsburghs mobile radio channels. It tant that I check apparatus and wiring options. Thats what
involves operating inactive- channels on reduced power. I'm doing here at the Remote Control Terminal equipment.
High-scorers 
after the game ... 
from Arrow
Youll be proud as a coach with a 
new star halfback when you take 
the wraps off this new Arrow 
sports wear. Thats a Twin Tartan 
shirt on the man at the lefta 
time-saver in cotton wash and 
wear. Another twin ideathe pull
over knit shirts on the man at the 
right and his date. The sweater? 
A smart new crew-neck model. 
Knit shirt, $5.00 up; other shirt, 
$5.00 up; sweater, $7.95 up.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
"1:30 p.m. After lunch, I take a company car out to 
transmitter tower site. Here I check wiring and explain our 
plan to one of our mobile radio maintenance men.
"Final phase. The operational test is made from an actual 
mobile radio unit. Ill make test calls and monitor the chan
nels from various points within the Pittsburgh area.
"3:15 p.m. I review my proposed modifications of auxiliary 
control circuits with Supervisor Sid Graul. Now Ill prepare 
work orders, and next week we'll make operational tests.
See what I mean? I really get to carry the ball. 
Soon Ill be taking a special course in advanced elec
tronics at Bell Labsa great opportunity. As I said 
I like my job/
Like Bob Swisher, you may find a bright engi
neering future with the Bell Telephone Companies. 
Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your 
campus. And read the Bell Telephone booklet on 
file in your Placement Office.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 6CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 19, 1958
Carnegie Tartan
Cross 
Country 
Team
Takes 
Second
Rifle 
Team
Crushes 
Grove 
City
George Paris  Sports Editor
Editorial
Darkness Hampers IM Sports
This week marks the beginning of the intramural foot
ball playoffs. The six teams which have reached the playoffs 
have worked hard all season long getting into shape and de
veloping a cor-ordinated offensive attack and a strong de
fense.
However, since games do not begin until 4:30 p.m. almost 
the entire second half is played in the dark. This doesnt 
strike me as being fair to the participants who have trained 
so hard to play a game under light conditions.
The darkness causes players to drop passes when they 
are wide simply because they cant see the ball. Teams have 
to alter their attack to a razzel-dazzel affair where several 
handoffs are faked in order to cross up the defense who also 
cant see the ball.
In several cases this affects play so much that the best 
team doesnt win. This will especially be true in the playoffs 
where both teams are very evenly matched and the second 
half play is many time the deciding factor in the outcome of 
the game.
Just what can be done to improve playing conditions? 
For the remainder of this season, I would recommend that 
if possible games be played in Tech Bowl which is well 
lighted and also available since the varsity is through for 
the season.
The obvious solution for future seasons is to light the IM 
fields is lights can be afforded. If not, I would suggest that 
all the favored teams in pre-season polls be placed in one 
league in order that they can play earlier in the season when 
sufficient light is available. This would also make for more 
exciting season games where poorer teams wont be trounced 
but will also meet teams of equal caliber. Something must 
be done to be fair to IM football participants. G.P.
Cross Country 
Team Places In 
First WPC Meet
By Bob Carman
Excellent running by the West
minster Titans and untimely in
jury of two Tech runners turned 
the first West-Penn Invitational 
Cross Country Meet into a rout.
Paced by Paul Sanders, 1957 
tri-state champion, the New Wil
mington runners placed four men 
| in the top five places to easily win 
! the meet, with host Carnegie Tech 
second.
! Earlier the meet had been 
billed as a tight team battle be
tween Tech and Westminster with 
Tech the favorite on the basis of 
its runaway dual meet victory.
The main item of interest was 
to be the expected race between 
I Techs top trio of Hamilton, Ot| tervik, and Wittman, and Sanders. 
However, Co-captain Eric Ottervik was forced to withdraw from 
the race before the mile post had 
been reached, and senior Bill 
Wittman, his stride reduced to a 
painful trot, struggled _ through 
four miles before calling it quits.
The individual race, neverthe
less, proved to be an exciting one, 
as Techs Dick Hamilton put on 
a terrific fight to keep his team 
in the race. Ham raced neck 
<md neck with Sanders through a 
torrid first mile, gradually lost 
yardage in the second mile, and 
pat on a great uphill surge to 
close the gap in the third mile.
The smooth striding Sanders 
was not to be caught, however, 
and finished first in 23:45, one of
Riflers Win Third 
Over Wash & Jeff
On Friday, the powerful Tartan 
Rifle Team smashed Grove City 
1418 to 1353, to notch its first 
Western Penn Conference win 
and third straight win this season.
The contest was never in doubt 
from the first relay as sophomore 
Ben Greudenreich and freshman 
sensation Bill Houck posted 278 
and 284 scores respectively to put 
Tech in the lead.
Then, on the final relay, the re
mainder of Techs fabulous five, 
John Jenkins, Arnie Thunbor, 
and All-American Vic Polansky, 
completed the rout, posting scores 
of 285, 282, and 289, respectively.
The depth of the Tartan team 
also showed up well as the second 
five, Glunts, Harris Scott, Turnquist, and White, turned in a 1367 
score which also would have beat 
Grove City.
This week, the Tech team 
travels to Indiana State Teachers 
College for a non-League match 
and although opposition will be 
tougher, they expect to notch the 
fourth win on their way to an un
defeated season.
the seasons best times over the 
rugged 4.5 mile course. The race 
emphasized once again that cross 
country is a team sport, and that 
even great individual efforts can
not help when over-all team per
formance is not up to par.
Streaming in behind Hamilton 
in the best races of the season 
were Westminsters Truxell, 
Shaw, and Paul to clinch the 
meet. Techs game little Woody 
Fritz ran his fastest race in three 
years as a letterman but narrowly 
missed the Titan trio, finishing in 
sixth place.
Bruce Dobras ran a sparkling 
race for Tech to finish in tenth 
place. Bill Anderson, weathering 
out one of his rare bad days, and 
Soph Glen Klepac finished the 
scoring for Tech.
The West-Penn Invitational 
meet was the brainchild of local 
cross-country runners who re
belled against the treatment they 
had received at the hands of the 
Slippery Rock cross-country team 
and its coach.
Spearheaded by Techs Dick 
Hamiton and Grove Citys Tim 
[continued on page 7]
IM Football t 
Finals Begin
By Ed Blum
Rolling to an undefeated sea
son in the tough Brooklyn League, 
the Met Grads romped over Delta 
Tau Delta 21-5 in one of the last 
games of the regular IM football 
seasons for 1958. In the Pirate 
League, Kappa Sigma gained ajjV 
tournament berth with a 19-8 vic
tory over the Englishmen, which 
placed last years Campus Cham
pions in second place behind un
defeated Citcom.
Quarterback Lee Hildebrand 
and teammates John Elliot and 
Ron Snyder each scored touch
downs Friday evening to cinch a 
Kappa Sig win in the crucial play
off game with the Englishmen.
Into the finals now go Citcorn^ 
and Kappa Sigma, Sigma Nu Jv* 
and Theta Xi, and the Met Grads 
with either ATO A, SAE A, 
or both of the second place squads 
from the Brooklyn League. The 
early favorites are, of course, 
those teams wiiich remained un
beaten during the regular season 
Citcom, Sigma Nu, and the Met 
Grads. But in the playoffs strange 
things happen as unseeded teams 
upset favorites and second-plac^ /' 
squads come on to win the champ-** 
ionship.
FOOTBALL STANDINGS 
Pirate League
Citcom.....................................7
Kappa Sigma.........................6
Englishmen ...........................5
ATOB................................3
Beta Sigma Rho...................2
Obelisk .................................2
Tau Delta Phi B .............2
ASCE............................
Yankee League
Sigma Nu A .....................6
Theta Xi.................................5
Tau Delta Phi A ..
Pi K. A..........................
SAE B ....................
Delta Upsilon.........................1
GSIA ........................
Brooklyn League
Met Grads ... .......................7
ATO A ...............................5
SAE A ....................
Delta Tau Delta.....................4
Phi Kappa .............................4
Beta Theta Pi .....................2
Clyde St. Shockers .............1
Sigma Nu B .....................0
wL
70
61
52
34
?5
?,5
?.5
1%}WP
60
51
42
?.,3
14
15
15
WL
70
52
52 \
4)
43
?5
16
07
t)
SCIENTISTSENGINEERS
INFRA-RED
1944. ..RESEARCH  1950...MASS PRODUCTION
For 15 years Aerojet-General has pioneered 
the research and development of infra-red devices. 
Now, Aerojet and Aerojet alone has perfected 
the high-volume production of infra-red systems for:
GUIDANCE 
WIDE-ANGLE SEARCH 
AUTOMATIC TRACKING 
GUNFIRE CONTROL
Aerojet invites you to pinpoint your own targets, 
lock on" your own future.. .in the dynamic new 
fields of infra-red and rocket propulsion.
 Mechanical Engineers
 Electronic Engineers
 Chemical Engineers
 Electrical Engineers
 Aeronautical Engineers
 Civil Engineers
 Chemists
 Physicists
 Mathematicians
4P
*))
CORPORATION
A Subsidiary o( 
TU* (aerai Tin ft Rubber CmapMy
PLANTS AT AZUSA AND
NEAR SACRAMENTO. CALIFORNIA
NOVEMBER 21

---------------------------------------------------

for Dr. Eddie Baker and his team 
who played good hard football 
throughout. Tackling was hard 
and sharp and blockers cut down 
the Titans with hard crushing 
f A blocks.
 The victory was the lone West 
Penn Conference win for the
Skibos who met only one other 
WPC foe, Geneva. This win gave
Tech an excellent 6-2 record for
the season, which is particularly 
impressive since the team came 
back from two crushing defeats to 
win their final two games. 
Statistics
WESTMINSTER TECH
iO.................First downs ................... 10
9 9...................... By running .......................... 6 1.................... By passing .......................... 2
0................... By penalties ............................ 2
13............. Passing attempted ...................... 8
3...................... Completed ................. 4
0. .................. Intercepted .................... 1 2................ Fumbles ........................ 1 2........ Fumbles recovered ............ 1 3................... Penalties ...................... 2
35............... Yards penalized ................. 20 4....................... Punts .......................... 8
166... ........... Yards punted ....................241
sJACKET
English: MUSICAL COMEDY 
ABOUT A LUCKY SMOKER
Thinklish translation: Kudos to the 
new hit Smoklahoma! Plot: boy meets 
cigarette, boy likes cigarette. Lucky 
Strike was convincing as the ciga
rette, displaying honest good taste 
from beginning to end. The end? 
Well tell you this much: its glowing.
English: LIGHT-FINGERED FRESHMAN
Thnklhb[coont iuedpaau
ibosotiptTb
STATE
[lUCKYl
(.STRIKE)Thinklish: PLUNI
RICHARD PUTNAM. N. CAROLINAEnglish: SHARP-TOOTHED HOUSE CAT
SPEAK THINKLISH! MAKE $25
Just put two words together to form a new 
one. Thinklish is so easy youll think of 
dozens of new words in seconds! Well pay 
$25 each for the hundreds of Thinklish words 
judged bestand well feature many in our 
college ads. Send your Thinklish words (with 
English translations) to Lucky Strike, Box 
67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Enclose your name, 
address, college or university and class.
Thinklish: FANGORA
RODNEY COLE. KANSAS STATE COLt
'SZ MUSICaL-,NSTRUMENT MAKER
"When the student body sits 
in class all day, getting numb 
at both ends, be crazy like 
a fox. Keep on your toes with 
NoDoz. Be alert for late-hour 
studying and hep on late 
dates. Safe as coffee and much 
more convenient.
M. 1L-  i . . CIGARETTESGet the genuine article . ..........-..........
Get the honest taste 
of a LUCKY STRIKE
Product
it Not to Prexy: NoDoz will keepyourftettiti okrt. toots our middle name
^ . - 
Wednesday, November 19, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPa 7
$
Football
[continued from page 1]
Mac took a pitchout from Jimmy 
Muth and swept end behind beau
tiful blocking to the 15 yard line 
where he reversed his field and 
ran laterally into the end zone. 
Bob Hammers conversion attempt 
was wide and Tech took a 6-0 lead.
No one thought that this would 
stand up for the winning margin, 
but a stubborn Tech defense lead 
by Earl Benner, Jim Temmel, 
Gary Yarborough, and Dave Love 
made Techs lone score hold up for 
the victory.
Final Quarter 
Neither team made any serious 
penetration until late in the final 
quarter when the Titans moved to 
the Skibos 15 yard stripe. Three 
lays gained eight yards and West
minster faced a fourth and two 
situation.
Bestwick took the snap from 
center but fumbled and alert end 
Dave Love recovered with less 
than three minutes to play in the 
game.
Muth called three running plays 
to run the clock out and moved to 
the 15 yard line. At this point 
Muth got off one of his few poor 
oots of the season and the ball 
went out of bounds on the Tech 
25 yard line.
Tech Defense 
It was at this time that the 
strong defensive Jine pushed West
minster back to the 37 yard line. 
Two plays had failed to gain for 
the Titans and on third down 
Bestwick threw for end Dave Ed
wards who was called for pushing 
in the end zone and the Titans 
were penalized 15 yards. On the 
next play Bestwick faded to pass 
and was smothered by a mob of 
Tech linemen to end the threat. 
The game ended a few plays later. 
The victory was well deserved
Co-Rec Volleyball 
Finals Thurs. Nite
Co-rec Volleyball finals will be 
played this Thursday evening with 
the ATO-Independents aggrega
tion meeting the winner of Tau 
Delts-Sig Kappas and SAE-Tri 
Delts contest.
The tournament is a double-eli
mination event, that is two losses 
are necessary to put a team out. 
ATO-Independents are undefeated 
having reached the finals by 
downing Tau Delta-Sig Kaps and 
ATO A-Kappa Kappa Gamma.
The Tau Delts-Sigs Kapps have 
but one loss and reached the semi
finals by conquering Sigma NuD.G.s Thetas. SAE-Tri Delts 
downed PiKA-Tri Delts to gain a 
semi-final berth.
Budget
[continued from page 4] 
Operating Expenses 
The distribution of funds for op
erating expenses in the depart
ments is determined in a series of 
conferences which culminates in 
the preparation of the final budget 
for each year. The Tech method 
of preparing budgets actively in
volves the departmental heads 
right from the start, and in this 
regard is one of the most demo
cratic systems followed by school 
administrators.
Budget preparation begins with 
a conference between President 
Warner and the department heads 
at which the overall financial sit
uation for the ensuing year is dis
cussed and general guide lines for 
expenditures are mutually agreed 
upon.
Prepare Budgets
Following this conference, the 
department heads prepare their 
detailed tentative budgets, which 
they submit to the deans of the 
college. The deans then relay to 
the president these total budget 
estimations for their colleges with 
appropriate recommendations:
At this point a summary of the 
budget is made and expenditures 
are checked against estimated in
come. Should the preliminary 
budget not balance at this point, 
the requests may be sent back to 
the colleges, even to the individual 
departments, for downward or up
ward revision before final budget 
approval is given.
As a result of this flexible 
method of developing the budget, 
expenditures are kept relatively 
uniform throughout the school, but 
at the same time ample allowances 
can be made for the special needs 
of specific departments. For in
stance, this method provides for a 
relatively uniform treatment of 
recommended salary increases in 
the various schools and colleges.
The judgments concerning rela
tive apportionments for various 
items thus fall not only upon the 
president, but also upon the deans 
and the department heads. Specific 
departmental heads, as well as the 
overall welfare of the school are 
met with this system.
Funds For Housing 
Another major function of the 
controllers office is determining 
how funds are used for student 
housing and related services. Car
negie, as a private institution, has 
only three sources of incometui
tion, endowment income, and gifts 
and grants. Tuition alone accounts 
for only fifty to sixty per cent of 
the educational costs of the in
stitute. Gifts are often made with 
stipulations restricting their use to 
a specific department or purpose. 
Grants are made for specific re
search projects by government 
agencies, private concerns, and the 
foundations.
School dormitories and dining 
rooms are self-supporting, and 
funds for food service and dormi
tory rental are not available for 
educational uses. In fact, the re
verse is generally true. It has 
occasionally been necsseary to use 
endowment income to improve 
dormitories, or to make up a de
ficit in Skibo operating expenses.
Skibo Loses Money 
Mr. Patton commented especial
ly on Skibo. It is not a concession. 
' The school operates Skibo and the
other campus food services. Under 
this system, Skibo is kept open at 
hours that would be unprofitable 
for strictly commercial operation.
Lastly, the new dormitories are 
being financed by Home & Hous
ing Finance Agency of the Nation
al Government and other loans, 
and educational funds are not be
ing diverted for use in their con
struction.
The funding of various segments 
of the schools economy proves to 
be jrnore complex than would ap
pear at first glance. It is not so 
easy to divert funds from one ac
count to another, as student dis
cussions tend to assume.
West-Penn--
[continued from page 6] 
Reilly, the runners appealed to 
other schools similarly maligned 
and when four schoolsTech, 
Grove City, Duquesne, and St. 
Francismade it known that they 
would not, as a protest, compete 
in the tri-state championships to 
be held at Slippery Rock, confer
ence officials authorized the WestPenn meet.
A large debt of gratitude is 
owed Mel Cratsley, Techs Ath
letic Director, for his patience and 
hard work in helping runners of 
all participating schools to stage 
a fair and sportsmanlike contest.
THINKLISH

---------------------------------------------------

R.i. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WIHSTON.JALEH.il.C.
RSNCR HF 
R^AFUSICLY NE 
HENs AsSCSoNsEh
 Lowest fares of all public 
transportation!
 Frequent departures! Quickest time to many cities!
 Air-conditioned comfort; 
picture-window sightseeing; 
fully equipped restroom; 
on all Scenicruiser Serviced 
schedules!
ITS SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THE BUS...
AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US1
LIBERTY at GRANT 
GRant 1-5700
Compare these low,low fares!
. .$ 4.30
.. 11.50. 7.85
Chicago ................ 13.25
Detroit .................. 8.85
Harrisburg .......... 6.25
anget dm
 bd.! t d[ d'gg dl'
but without hands... 
you miss the whole idea of a watch
 ."'dd' t d[ tl[8'
but without flavor-you miss 
the whole idea of smoking
When it comes to flavor
It's what's HR front that counts
Faff 9CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 19, 1959
Seminar
[continued from page 1] 
ed several ideas for radio publi
city, including tape-recorded 
skits. The fastest way to get pub
licity on the air, however, was 
announced as pinning the copy on 
the WRCT bulletin board in Skibo, which is checked several times 
each day.
It was stressed that WRCT pub
licity information should include 
a complete list of facts regarding 
desired coverage such as what is 
happening, the names of those in
volved, and the elements of when 
and where as well as cost and 
any other pertinent information.
Special WRCT forms, as an
nounced at the seminar, may be 
obtained by writing Box 370.
Thistle editor, Dick Clemm, dis
cussed the importance of giving 
long-range publicity plans to the 
Thistle. The Thistle this year has 
sent out forms for desired picture 
coverage to all campus organiza
tions.
Scotch Soda 
Planning Changes 
For 1959 Show
- By Arlene Logioco
Sarah Virginia Lindsay, senior 
language major, is the president of 
the Scotch and Soda Club this 
year. A member of the group for 
four years, she started by work
ing on props, became prop man
ager, and last year was stage man
ager.
Since her father, James Lindsay, 
is a graduate of Techs drama 
school and is one of the founders 
of the club, Sally is well versed 
on theater productions and club 
activities. Her own theatrical ex
perience includes working at the 
William Penn Playhouse during 
the summer of 1957, the North 
Shore Music Theater in Beverly, 
Massechusetts during this past 
summer, and she is now doing cos
tumes for the Knickerty-KnockMEET ME 
UNDER THE CLOCK
Weekends and the holidays 
are so much more fun in 
New York if you stop at 
The Biltmore, traditional favorite 
on every campus in the 
country! Economical, too.
Write to our College Department 
for special student and faculty 
rates and reservations.
BILTMORE
Madison Avenue at 43rd St., N. Y. IT, N. Y.
AT GRAND CENTRAL STATION
Other REALTY HOTELSThe Barclay & Park Lane 
Harry M. Anholt, President
erty Players, a touring company.
The board of directors of Scotch 
and Soda is larger this year than 
it ever has been in the past. With 
more departments represented, 
this years production promises to 
be one of the most original yet. 
The show, a review, will be pre
sented in the theater in the 
round style.
Membership Open 
Everyone interested in the club 
should apply for membership 
since the object of the club is to 
combine talents of the drama, non
drama, and music departments to 
give those who wouldnt ordin
arily have the opportunity or the 
chance to use their talents. Those 
who are studying theater will 
have a chance to further their 
education and practical training. 
The following positions will be
assigned within the next few 
weeks: director, set, lighting, and 
costume designers, and stage man
ager. All those interested should 
leave a note on the Scotch and 
Soda bulletin board, contact Sally, 
or apply to Box 258.
Scotch n Soda will hold its 
first general social affair next 
Sunday afternoon, November 
23, at 2:30 p.m., In the Morewood Gardens Recreation 
Room.
Informal Meeting 
At this informal meeting the
1959 5nS production will be 
presented. Those attending the 
meeting will then be asked for 
their ideas about the show. 
Anyone who is interested in 
working in the 1959 production 
in any capacity is invited to 
attend.
Suite Day *'
[continued from page 1J 
Philadelphia, and Selinsgrove.
A luncheon was held at Car 
negie Union for the convention, 
and following the delicious meal, 
group singing was lead by Joanne 
Gennock of Alpha Mu chapter.
Mr. Clifford Taylor, an out
standing young American conv 
poser spoke on the theme of 
State Day, American Music.
In the afternoon session, Mrs. 
Charles Benn, professor of Music 
at Tech spoke on American Musie 
in Music Education showing the 
close relationship between the de- , 
velopment of each and the respon- . 
sibility which music education j 
holds in the development of Amer- I 
ican music.
Mrs. Benns speech was follow-j.. 
ed by a recital of American Musi^jfl
Goin home over vacation?
Up front in Winston is
FILTER-BLEND
Thats why 
WINSTON TASTES GOOD,
like a cigarette should!
