Significant Builtfing^ for Tech
Studen t Opin ion Asked 
In UnionDesign Debate
* As the result of a meeting last Thursday with Dean Nor
man L. Rice, chairman of the Design Committee for Carnegie 
Tech, student architects will have the opportunity to review 
the two dominant Student Union design proposals now being
considered. Mr. Thomas C. Pratt,#---------------------------------------------------
the contracted architect for theto the President as a consultant. 
architecture, Im not of much use 
The Campus Design Character
Union has been invited to present 
his proposal; and Mr. Paul 
Schweikher, who was asked to be 
the consultant for the new Union | The senior architect in aski 
bv Mr Pratt after considering the Dean tQ k wighed to find 
rR^ny other prominent architects, Qut mQre about the total building 
mil present his proposal. Mr. gram. Becau-se the building Cur-Pratt s buiWrng is an expression rentl under uestion is the new 
Asked to discuss the present; student Union> much of the dig_ 
building program, Dean Rice spoke j cussjon was on it. As the key 
in glass and limestone while Mr. ! building> it is the first to be con.
structed. As such, it must set the 
precendent and be the tastemakSchweikhers structure is an exform. These presentations shall be 
made in the near future, 
of the role the new buildings 
must play on the Pittsburgh scene. 
H ttsburgh has no architecture 
that sets a pace sa the new stu
dent union must be a significant 
building.' Dean Rice continued, 
Carnegie Tech as an architectural 
school has no excuse for grevious 
errors in its new architecture . . . 
How can our institution not do 
the best of what it knows? As 
chairman of the Design Commit
tee, an advisory board to the 
President, the Dean concluded, If 
l{ annot do this (effect significant
er for all the other structures, 
the designs of which are still ten
tative. Professor Robert Schmertz, 
a member of the design committee 
since its establishment three years 
ago, felt that the new Union must 
be a strong building with good 
scale.
Professor Schmertz is an
swering a question posed by Tom 
Briner, felt that the new Union 
should reflect the same mass and 
qualities of strength that the oth
er buildings have. Both Professor 
tcontinued on page 8]
Professor Schweikher's Union Proposal
The above is the architecture department heads concept of what the new Student Activities Cen
ter should look like.JEt has an aspect of brute strength which is necessary if it is to be placed near such 
buildings as Fine Arts and Engineering Hall. The two arms coming around the sides enclose the stair
ways of the building. The first floor has all glass walls, excepting doors and glass supports. The two 
floors below -ground contain Skibo, a Snack Bar, and WRCT. An auditorium, ballroom, activities offices, 
and meeting rooms comprise the upper two floors.
VOL. 51No. 21 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1968
Tech Development Program
Boosted By Senior Class
Banquet At Webster Hall Hotel On May 6
Original Union Proposal
Here is seen the model of the Activities Center which stands in 
4| ministration Hall.
Tartan Shows 
Need For 6500 
Graduation Seats
In the, March 11 and March 18 
issues of the Tartan a survey was 
conducted to determine the numbr of seats needed for the general 
Oummencemenf Exercises. Each 
senior was asked to indicate the 
number of persons he expected to 
invite to graduation. The number 
of seats needed for the general 
meeting should also show the 
number needed for the individual 
exercises. Although the results of 
the survey are probably not con
clusive, they show that 92 stu
dents may need on the average of 
61 seats each.
From Margaret Morrison there 
were fifteen replies, requesting 
103 seats for an average of 6.8 
seats per graduate. SIA and SPM 
each indicated that they would 
need 6 seats per person  this 
number being based on 18 re
quests from three replies from 
each college. From Engineering 
And Science came the largest re
sponse and thus probably the most 
significant results. Thirty-four 
seniors requested 215 seats for an 
average of 6.3 seats per graduate. 
Fine Arts students desire the larg
est number of seats per senior. 
Sixteen persons asked for an av
erage of 8.4 seats per graduate.
This survey Indicates that it 
would be desirable for both MMCC and Fine Arts to make a sur
vey of their own to determine if 
the locations they have in mind 
fM the individual exercises will 
be large enough
Forensics Held 
East Weekend
Last weekend two thousand 
junior and senior high school stu
dents invaded Tech for the South
western District contests of the 
Pennsylvania Forensic and Music 
League. Administrators of the 
competitions were Mrs. Oleta A. 
Benn and Mr. George E. Reynolds.
Representing Allegheny, Beav
er, Falyette, Somerset, and' West
moreland counties, the competing 
students took part in eight differ
ent events  seventy in music and 
ten in speech and drama. 
The one hundred ninety-five en
trants, including fourteen bands 
and orchestras, sixteen choruses, 
eighty-six soloists, and thirty-six 
[continued on page 3]
Early in March, a group of about 60 seniors organized themselves under a plan call
ed The class of 1958 development program. These seniors with the aid of Jack Johnston, 
associate secretary of the alumni federation, and Gary Benton, chairman, have initiated a 
plan of action intended to aid Techs solicitations from industry and alumni for funds for the 
building program.
One.of the first plans for such aid has been centered around a senior class banquet.
?This banquet, though hotly debat
ed at first, has now been approv
ed since the school has willingly 
agreed to finance it. It is scheduled 
to take place on May 6 in the 
Georgian and Terrace rooms of the 
Webster Hall Hotel.
All other difficulties confront
ing the program will fade pro* o i_ 11 tt 11 , ,, , vided that the senior class willton, Scobell Hall representative, participate. The banquet will not
Student Congress 
Plans Conference 
For Freshmen
A Leadership Conference for 
all freshmen interested in Stu
dent Congress will be held Tues
day, April 15 in Morewood Gar
dens Recreation Room from 4:30- 
7:30 p.m. The purpose of the 
conference is to acquaint fresh
men with the activities and work
ings of Student Congress.
The progi%m will include 
speeches by Jo Lacey, Susette 
Grove, Merle Steir, Lou Marquet, 
Lee Ligo, and Ron Beauniarriage 
who will explain the functions of 
congress. Following the speeches 
there will be a break for dinner 
in Morewoods Blue dining Room. 
The Conference will resume at 
6:30 for an informal discussion 
period led by Congress members.
Invitations will be sent to those 
freshmen who signed up that they 
were interested in Congress at 
the Activities Fair. However, any 
interested freshman is urged to 
attend.
Carnival Committee Announces 
Mustache Growing Competition
The Spring Carnival Committee 
of Student Congress announces 
the Spring Carnival Mustache 
Growing Contest. As one of the 
many new features of this year s 
carnival, and in hopes of making 
some of these features an annual 
thing designed to stimulate stu
dent interest in the largest of all 
school events.The contest is open to all males 
on Techs campus. Day time, night 
time, part time, graduate stu
dents, and faculty are all invited 
to enter in the fun, that may lead
to a trophy. The OK has been 
given ROTC students. Any ROTC 
man officially registering as a con
testant will have his name re
corded with the military depart
ment and will not receive de
merits for the hairy upper lip.
The contest begins April 9 and 
10 (see rules) and it will be judg
ed on a platform in the center of 
the Cut. This gives a total of 25 
days to grow the mustache. Al
though 25 days may seem a : hort 
time in which to get a decent 
[continued on page 3]
Congress Size 
May Decrease
Should departmental repre
sentatives be abolished? This is 
the question raised by Jim Housm a proposed amendment to the 
Student Government Constitution,place the seniors under any ob
ligations, plus the fact that dona^dfJ.n JIT'; wffl no. be expected a, ,heing last Wednesday. Mr. Houston 
stated many reasons for his pro
posal, which would eliminate dedinner.
The seniors are of course suppartmental representatives, and j Pse<^ to realize that this program
use non-members of Congress to 
fill out the committees.
First he pointed out that de
partments do not have a mechan
ism for good communication, as 
contrasted to regular fraternity 
and sorority meetings. He also 
thinks that a smaller Congress 
would operate more efficiently, 
because they think we are too 
busy.
Oppostiion
There was a fair amount of 
opposition to the proposal. Some
is being sponsored chiefly to in
terest their class in the building 
campaign and that this responsi
bility should not be taken lightly. 
Gary Benton h?s stated that the 
senior donations to the program 
have many benefits when it is 
realized by the future graduate 
that the reputation of his school 
is important for prestige in later 
life. A good development fund will 
assure the good reputation of both 
Carnegie Tech and its Alumni. A 
second benefit concerns the fact 
that money pledged by the seniorsthought that the departmental ! now will relieve them of obliga 
representatives were in close con- j tions for donations during the nexttact with their constituency. Oth
ers thought that certain groups 
would lose almost all say in Con
gress if not represented through 
departments. As Nancy McCar
thy said, If there were no de
partmental representatives, there 
would probably be no Fire Arts 
students on Congress. Fraternities 
and sororities wouldnt elect us
tps
S'nS Lights
Anybody interested in be
ing on the Scotch and Soda 
light crew is invited to come 
to the Gym today, Tuesday 
at 7:30 p.m.
three years.
Three Scholarshi 
Noiv Available
Applications are available for 
the Delta Delta Delta local schol
arships in Mr. Swanks office. All 
girls regularly matriculated at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
are eligible for the awards. The 
applications must be returned to 
Mr. Swank's office by April 15,
The Altrusa Club of Pittsburgh 
will make a scholarship of $500 
available to a woman student in 
the junior or senior year who 
plans to pursue graduate studies.
[continued on page 7J

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 1, 1958
'S RELAX, \ 
) HAVE A k
WINSTON!
GIVE ER MORE 
COAL,JOE, WERE 
LATE NOW/
HE PROBABLY MEANT TO MENTION. 
THAT WINSTON IS AMERICA'S 
BEST-SELLING,
r/1 { *Asthtestrul "i
FILTER
I ill ( contiueeud p
Sororities Again Don Costumes 
For Carnival Campaigns
With the 1958 Tinted Tupes Carnival only one month away, 
the sororities, fraternities, and other competing groups are at work 
laying plans for their individual projects. This years combination 
theme and the hard work that has already gone into the planning of 
Carnival promise campaigns and a cut quite colorful and carnivallike. ? ------------------------------------------------
The students are not alone in Military Ball
Honors Ann Cargill 
As Cadet Colonel
The annual Military Ball, spon
sored by Scabbard and Blade, the 
national senior mens military 
honor society, was held in the 
CIT Mens Gym Saturday night,
the preparations for Carnival com
petition. It has been rumored that 
last years departmental winners 
of the faculty egg, toss have been 
experimenting with an ellipsoidal 
prestressed concrete form that has 
all the physical characteristics of. 
a real egg. As in the past, how
ever, all missiles will be raw eggs 
supplied by the Spring Carnival 
Committee. The object of the com
petition is to see which team can I March 29 from 9 o'clock until 1. 
successfully complete a toss the Tommy Carlyn and his orchestra 
furthest distance without breaking: , , , ,,the egg. The faculty egg toss, along j P^yed. The highlight of the evewith Sorority Relays will be held ni^g was the crowning of the 
immediately after Call Day on honorary cadet colonel, Ann CarFine Arts Lawn. : gjj] representative from D tower.
Sororities Thig two honorary lieutenantSomething old and something co,onels p ^ ,
M7 ho\ro noon anrloH trv tho ( nioon ^resenting Delta Gamma, andnew have been added to the Queen 
Campaigns this year. After a year 
of costumeless campaigns the 
sponsoring groups will once again 
don colorful skit dress.
Each group may run a maxi
mum of two candidates for queen. 
This year there are six groups 
j^rticipating. These groups will
Joanne Cronin, representing KAT. 
The other two finalists, Ginna 
Murphy of A tower, and Bev 
Salvatore of KKG, received hon
orary commissions. The queen 
candidates, nominated by their 
respective groups, were voted on
present their candidates and bid by all the men in the school. Five 
for two trophies on April 22, at finalists were chosen and were 
11:30 in front of Fine Arts in the presented to the ROTC classes 
following order: j who chose the queen.
Kappa Alpha ThetaRed Silk Tom Gouger, Captain of ScabStockings and GREEN Perfume. bard and Blade, First Lieutenant 
Delta Delta Delta  The Old John Hayden, and First Sergeant 
GRAY Mare. Harold Pastrick, the officers of
Chi Omega  The Moon is1 the group, with the help of the 
BLUE. groups advisors, Major Curry and
Alpha Epsilon PhiORANGE- Lieutenant Jarvis, were responcolored Sky. sible for the Preparations for the^  ball. The organization, a selectiveSigma Kappa GREET Door. group Gf students elected to memo Kappa Gamma bership because of an interest in 
BLACK Magic. military affairs, also provides the
In consideration of the queen honor guard at Homecoming, Carpresentations, the assembly com- ! negie Day, Spring Carnival, and 
mittee has not scheduled a pro- the Military Ball and sponsors 
gram this time. Therefore, the t}ie intramural rifle matches held 
[continued on page 8] i on campus annually.
Collegiate 
Cultural 
Calendar
The department of painting and 
design is showing the work of 
some of its new faculty members 
in the Hewlett Gallery on the 
first floor of the Fine Arts Build
ing. The exhibition will continue 
through April 4 and includes the 
work of Ruth Cochran, Peter 
Jenkyn, Robert Rabinowitz, and 
Edmund Feldman.
A student recital will be given 
in the Exhibition'Hall on April 2, 
at 8:30 p.m.,1 by students from the 
music department. The program 
will include:
Sonata in E flat Major (les
Adieux) op 81. a . .Beethoven 
Les Adieux: Adagio: Allegro 
LAbsence: Andante expressivo 
Le Retour: Vivacissemento 
Frances Bebic, Piano 
Quartet in E Flat Major,
op. 16 ........................Beethoven
Grave: Allegro ma non troppo 
Andante Cantabile 
Rondo: Allegro ma non troppo 
Harold Baugh, violin 
Marie Shmorhun, cello 
Filia Moraitis, viola 
Barbara Shannon, piano 
Valse Miniture op. 1
No. 2 ....................Koussevitzky
Roger Macchiaroli, double 
bass
Jo Ann Gennock, piano 
Le Tombeau di Couperin. .Ravel 
Prelude 
Forlane 
Rigaudon 
Menuet 
Roccata
Kiltie Band
The Kiltie Band will present 
their Spring Concert at Carnegie 
Music Hal] on April If, at 8:15 
p.m. Dr. Frank Simon will be 
guest conductor, and Leonard Bv 
Smith, Byron Autry, and George
E. Reynolds will appear as guest 
coronet soloists. Tickets are $1.00, 
and may be purchased from any 
member of the Kiltie Band or at 
the Music Hall.
Pittsburgh Symphony 
The Pittsburgh Symphony will 
[continued on page 8]
Tech YM And YWCA Hold 
Installation Of New Officers
The newly elected officers of 
the Carnegie Tech YM & YWCA 
were officially installed in office 
at a dinner held this past Thurs
day night at the Faculty Club. 
Great Expectations of Student 
Leadership in the Ys at Tech 
was the theme of the panel of 
three speakers. Dr. Raymond Parshall, director of the Division of 
Student Personnel and Welfare, 
spoke from the point of view of 
Carnegie Tech; Miss Ruth Shinn, 
director of the YWCA at Tech 
and Coordinator of Religious Af
fairs, spoke from the point of view 
of the intercollegiate Y; and Mr. 
John G. Johnson, associate secretary of the alifmni federation, 
spoke from the point of view of 
the community.
Dr. Parshall quoted a statement 
of President Warner, in which he 
said that the development of a 
personal philosophy, a sense of 
values, and social responsibility 
are vital elements of the educa
tional objectives at Carnegie Tech. 
Dr. Parshall went on to say that 
he thought the YMCA and YWCA 
were helping to fulfill these goals.
New Officers 
The outgoing Y Presidents, 
Charles E. Davis and Marian L. 
Doepken, were recognized for 
their services and leadership dur
ing the past year. They presided 
over the installation of the neW 
officers. The new YMCA Cabinet 
is:
PresidentRobert W. Harring
ton
First Vice-PresidentJohn M.
Hallgren 
Second Vice-PresidentJack W. 
Walker
SecretaryGregory M. Berbert 
TreasurerRalph E. Hise 
Program Chairman  Carleton 
W. Carroll 
Membership Chairman  Row
land H. Kimberlin 
Special Projects Chairman  
Frederick H. Roberts 
Publicity ChairmanGeorge T. 
Olson
The new officers of the YWCA 
are:
PresidentPaddie A. Fike 
Vice-President in charge of 
ProgramIrene J. Dinning 
Vice-President in charge of 
Membership  Marjoritf} L. 
Warner *
SecretaryLinda A. Herrington 
TreasurerPatricia E. Middle
ton
National Representative  Bar
bara J. Rowlands 
The members of the advisory 
boards also participated- Mr. John
G. Johnson, who is chairman this 
year of the YMCA Committee of 
Management, recognized Mr. Eu
gene L. Boyer, Dr. Wilfred? T. 
Rouleau, Dr. Thomas E. Stelson. 
These faculty men have served 
for three years on the Committee 
of Management, and now are re
tiring from the Committee.
Dr. Sara E. Piel, the chairman 
of the YWCA Advisory Board, 
thanked the members, of their 
Board who are finishing their 
service this year. They are:
Miss Clara E. Miller 
Mrs. Raymond E. Parshall 
Mrs. Paul Schweilner 
Miss Mabel Stoner 
Miss Miriam A. Weikert 
Mrs. William Schutte then an
nounced the new slate for the 
YWCA Advisory Board, which 
will be ratified later. The nomi
nations are:
ChairmanDr. Sara E. Piel 
Vice-ChairmanMiss Ruth H 
Seiberling 
SecretaryMiss Joan Lowe 
Mrs. William A. Bradshaw 
Miss E. Amity Doering 
Miss Ruth C. Cochran 
Mrs. Richard  J. Duffin 
Miss Patricia A. Miller 
Miss Myra E. Shull 
Mrs. B. Richard Teare, Jr.
| The newly elected officers and 
i the appointed committee heads 
of the YMCA and YWCA 
pledged themselves to meet?tiie 
expectations of those who put 
them in their position of leader
ship. The members of the organ
izations then promised to support 
their new leaders.
MEANWHILE,
AFEWM/LES
AWAY//
. IA/1 Kl LIIKE^A 
S TASTES ^/CIGARETTE ) 
{ GOOD! A SHOULD!
i THERE WAS L 50METHING ELSE 
I WAS ABOUT TO 
I\ MENTION... M
HE SHOULD'VE MENTIONED THE NEW CRUSH-PROOF BOX, TOO !
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., 
WINSTON-SAICM.N.C.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 1, 1958CARNEGIE TARTAN" ge 3
Forensics
[continued from, page 1] 
small ensembles, took over all 
available facilities at Tech, plus 
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial 
Hall and Foster Memorial in Oak
land. GSIA Auditorium, Thistle, 
Breed, and Porter Halls, WRCT, 
and the Fine Arts building were 
< 
the scenes of varied contests  
from poetry and Shakespeare 
readings to ensemble and baton 
twirling performances.
The competitions were judged 
by a panel of sixteen, many of 
whom were Tech faculty mem
bers. Undergraduates from the 
Music Department acted as aides.
Several unavoidable clashes
arose with the presence of so 
many visitors. Friday evening, six 
hundred eager musicians crowd
ing into the foyer of Fine Arts 
disrupted the final rehearsal of 
MEASURE FOR MEASURE.
Present plans state that Tech 
will be host to the Southwestern 
District contests for the next two 
years.
Lets discuss
- (not jobs)
in Guided Missiles 
APRIL 10
If youre interested in guided missiles (and you 
should be because its the fastest growing engineer
ing field today), youll be wise to talk to Bendix. 
As prime contractor for the vital Talos Missile, 
Bendix is big league. If you work for Bendix 
Guided Missiles, you work with the top men in 
the field, using facilities and equipment that are 
.virtually unmatched. The future of Talos is one 
of ever-increasing research, development and test 
programs. That means youll grow, too, just as 
fast as your talent and ambition will let you. 
Interested? Then, Wed like to talk to you. Make 
your appointment now.
BENDIX GUIDED MISSILES, MISHAWAKA, INDIANA
PRIME CONTRACTOR FOR 
THE TALOS MISSILE
e
vj
Great buyl 
the trim-fitting 
ARROW Glen
Its the shirt with the stand
out choice In collars  the 
regular, button-down, or per
manent stay Arrow Glen. 
Exclusive Mitoga tailoring 
carries through the trim, tap
ered look from collar to waist 
to cuff. Sanforized broad
cloth or oxford in stripes, 
checks, solids. $4.00 up. 
Cluettt Peabody Co.} Ine.
ARROWfirst in fashion
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products Ivy League FashionsLEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood StreetOakland
Kilties Spring Concert 
April 11 At Music Hall
The Kiltie Band Spring Concert will be held on April 
11 at 8:15 p.m. in Carnegie Music Hall: Dr. Frank Simon, who 
will be guest conductor for the concert, was solo cornetist 
with the Sousa Band for seven years. He has trained many of
----------------------------------------------?todays outstanding cornet-trumo, i pet players and teachers, servingStudent Congress 
Elections May 6 
In Departments
Next years departmental repre
sentatives to Student Congress 
will be elected at departmental 
meetings May 6 at 11:30. Students 
who are interested in running for 
these offices must submit their 
names to the l)ean of Students 
office.
Each department is permitted 
one representative per 100 stu
dents. The number of representa
tives allowed each department 
are:
CJiemical Engineering .... 2
Civil Engineering ..............1
Electrical Engineering ... .3 
Mechanical Engineering ... .4
Metallurgy ............................2
Chemistry ..............................1
Mathematics ..........................1
Physics ..................................2
Architecture ..........................2
Drama ....................................2
Music ......................................2
Painting and Design ..........2
General Studies ................... 1
Home .Economics ..................2
Science ..................................1
Secretarial ..............................1
Industrial Management .... 1
Printing Management ........1
The results of all fraternity and 
sorority elections for their new 
Congress representatives should 
be submitted to the Dean of Stu
dents office by May 6.-
Any commuter interested in 
becoming a commuter representa
tive must submit a petition sign
ed by 75 other commuters.
This petition must also in
clude the alternates name. Peti
tion blanks are now available in 
the Dean of Students office. These 
must be returned by May 6.
Mustaches
[continued from page 1] 
growth going, it was felt best on 
the first time not to carry the 
growing period through the Eas
ter Vacation. If response is fav
orable this year maybe a longer 
time will be given to the contest 
in years to come. So plunk down 
your quarters on the 9th and 10th, 
it may mean a trophy.
Rules
1All entrants must present 
themselves clean shaven at 
time of registration.
2There will be an entry fee of 
25c per entrant.
3The contest growing period 
,will run from registration 
(April 9-19), until judging on 
May 3. (Total of 25 days)
4There will be two trophies 
given:
(a) A trophy will be awarded 
the individual growing the 
longest mustache. (That is, 
the longest span from end 
to end.)
(b) A trophy will be awarded 
the individual whose mus
tache is decided, by the 
judges, to most accurately 
conform to an established 
mustache style.
5Judging will be held May 3 on 
a platform on the Cut. Time 
and judges will be announced 
later.
as a member of the faculty of the 
Cincinnati Conservatory of Music. 
He is at present a member of the 
music faculty of the University of 
Arizona. Dr. Simon has conducted 
bands throughout the United 
States and Canada for many years.
The concert will feature a guest 
cornet trio consisting of Leonard 
B. Smith, Byron Autry, and 
George E. Reynolds. Mr. Smith 
has been soloist with the Gold
man Band, first trumpet with the 
Detroit Symphony Orchestra, the 
Ford Sunday Evening Hour, and 
the Detroit Civic Light Opera 
Association.
Mr. Autry has played first trum
pet with the Amarillo Symphony, 
the Lansing, Michigan Symphony 
Orchestra, and first chair cornetist 
with the Leonard Smith Band. He 
is presently instructor of cornettrumpet at Michigan State Uni
versity. Mr. Reynolds, Director of 
the Kiltie Band, has been solo 
cornetist with the University of 
Illinois Concert Band, the U. S. 
Coast Guard Band, the Cincin
nati Conservatory Band, and first 
trumpet with the New Hampshire 
State Symphony.
Trumpet-Cornet Forum 
In connection with this concert, 
a comprehensive trumpet- cornet 
forum will be held on April 12 
from 9-12 a.m. on the Tech cam
pus. Panelists for this discussion 
will be Dr. Frank Simon, Leonard 
B. Smith, Byron Autry, George 
E. Reynolds, and Anthony Pasuerelli.
The tickets for this concert are 
$1.00 and may be obtained from 
any Kiltie Band member or at the 
Music Hall. The program will in
clude:
In Springtime OvertureKarl 
Goldmark 
Grand Waltz Espagnole 
Mascheroni 
Victoria WaltzCornet trio 
Leonard Smith 
Carnival in ParisSvendsen 
Dr. Frank Simon, conduct
ing
Rakoczy March (Damnation 
of Faust)Berlioz arr. L. B. 
Smith
Leonard Smith, conducting * 
Nocturne (Midsummer Nights 
Dream) Mendelssohn 
George E. Raynolds, con
ducting
[continued on page 8]
Leo Alman & 
The Combo
HA. 1-2083
MAUPINTOURS /1958
ADVENTURE! EDUCATION!
Bridge
The junior clothing majors wi*I 
hold a dessert-bridge fashion show 
Saturday, April 12 in the Morewood Gardens Recreation Room 
from 1:30 to 4:30. Tickets, $1.25 
each, may be bought from any 
junior clothing major or at the 
door.
TRAVEL! SUMMER 1958!
Join a special American-directed, student/teacher tour through the Soviet Union. Choose from six departure dates . . . travel to seldom-visited cities such as Kiev of the Ukraine, Stalingrad, Odessa, Yalta, Sochi, Tbilisi of Soviet Georgia, Kharkov . . . enjoy a Volga River or Black Sea cruise ... see Leningrad and Moscow. Visit Warsaw, Pragu* and the Brussels' World Fair . . . plus extensions to the European Capitals.
Inclusive rate from $1369, from 
New York. Reservations limited, apply now for sufficient tlma to secure Russian visa. Writ today for descriptiva folder.
See your travel agent or
/#4U\
ftTom Maupln
j-J TOUR ASSOC I ATES
1236 Massachusetts Lawrence / Kansas

---------------------------------------------------

Fare 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 1, 1958
^xVi ' v
Gickler
Lot Open To Students
Tech students have come into 
their own! The administration 
has conceded that the students 
may number themselves among 
that class of persons known as 
Carnegie Personnel. This an
nouncement comes on the heels 
of student queries concerning 
their right to use the new park
ing lot to the rear of Morewood 
Gardens.
Ever since the lot was opened 
early in January with a big sign 
limiting its use to Carnegie Per
sonnel at the Forbes street entrance, it has been singularly de
serted. The space was made in 
recognition of an acute parking 
problem among the commuting 
students. The 115 space solution 
has been coolly received. There 
is no excuse for any Tech stu
dents receiving a parking ticket.
Morewood and fraternity and 
Mudge House residents should 
logically be users of the space also. 
All car owners and drivers are 
urged to take advantage of their 
new position and park behind 
Morewood Gardens.
Editorial
Mass GraduationMaybe
An analytic reader of the front page story on Commence
ment will note that it indicates many problems which will 
iaee and are facing our esteemed Administration before they 
finally complete their plans to give us a new Commence
ment Exercise.
It might be well to emphasize again that although there 
will be ample room for all our friends and relatives to at
tend the general meeting on the Mall (if Tech can secure 
enough chairs and there appears to be some doubt on this 
score), there certainly is no place on campus which will ac
commodate the crowd which the survey indicates will be on 
hand for the individual evercises of MMCC and Fine Arts.
The Tartan does not critcize the entire idea behind mass 
graduation, it only wonders why those in charge did not think 
of the seating problem before plunging head long into a new 
plan.
What friend or relative will want to make a long trip to 
see only half of the graduation? What senior would dare to 
invite anyone who would not be able to attend all the func
tions, especially the important one of actually seeing a loved 
one receive his diploma?
Enjoyable?
The idea of making graduation more enjoyable through 
a well known guest speaker is a fine one, and one which ob
viously will be carried through without too much difficulty, 
even though expensive. In addition the idea of personalizing 
the diploma giving tradition is pleasing to some. But in the 
Jece of the present seating predicament the idea is but a 
is April 2, the colleges have failed to consult the students, 
pleasant dream, not a reality.
Even at this date when the deadline for location choices 
[continued on page 4a]
MMaitni Editor ......... .............. ......................................................................... Ann Forest
Exeati>* fcditsr ........................................................................................................Edwin RogersBasinest Manager ........................................................................................ Harley Bern bachNewt Editor ................ ........................................... ................ .................. Carol Sooby
rts fcditor ................................................................................................................... George ParisC'spy Ed iter .................................. ......................................................................... David DullOFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office phone, MU 2-4557: Managing Editor. MU 2-8890; Executive Editor, MU 2-0846; Advertising Manager: MU 2-8051. Published weekly during the school year except holiday and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute 1 Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13. Pa
Assistant News EditorLex Baker. Feature EditarLyn Carman Photography EditorAI Gickler, Assistant easiness ManagerMichael Base, Advertising ManagerLee A dels berg, SecretaryJean Seidel, Clvcalatian ManagerJack Walker.
* ports stagrGeorge Paris, Tom Beig, Stan Zisnts, Hilliard Wood, George Gross, 
Ed Mum Mike Berman, Pete Pence. Dick Hamilton, Bruce Bowen.
Capy fcta*Dick Wiley, Jerry Sullivan,Art fciaffJanice Madden, Don Beaman, Barb Kjos, Roy Brodsky.
Photography *taGeorge English. Mary KneeHtnd.Secretarial OtaCarol Rea, Jane Gross. Nancy Dereich, Rena Siegel.Circalatioa Staff: Gary Brandenberger, Jim Phillips.
Entered as second class matt sn October 4, 1007, at the Post Offcee at Pittsburgh Pa., under act of March 3, 870. Accepted for mailing at special rate* o) 
MKlage provided tor in the act of February 20. 1025.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Letters
Third Sex?
Editor, the Tartan:
On some doors at E.H. and else
where we come across words men, 
women, and faculty. What is this 
third sex? Whatever it be, it re
minds me of our Tech faculty 
and I want to speak my views 
about the student-faculty rela
tions here.
If anyone feels the lack of so
cial and out of class-room con
tact between our faculty and stu
dents here, I am strongly inclined 
to side with him. Many of us 
Tech students live away from 
home and families and miss the 
mature influence of our parents. 
In addition, not all of the fraterni
ties have housemothers. To com
pensate for this deficiency, perhaps 
our faculty, which could serve in 
such a capacity should act as an 
excellent substitute. Otherwise 
there is a fear that we graduate 
from Tech no better than grown
up babies.
Apathetic Faculty? 
Secondly, next to the commut
ers, our faculty has the greatest 
apathy for student activities and 
school functions. The presence of 
faculty on various school functions 
would provide a stimulus to the 
students. Also, our faculty should 
be encouraged to be present in 
greater number at the football 
and basketball games. In India 
we quite often had games like 
soccer, cricket and field hockey 
between faculty and students. 
Students should have at least one 
chance to have a fling at the fac
ulty; let it be on the sports field.
Senior Chem. E.
Sadiq Majid
(Editors Note: The Tartan too 
has noticed the lack of social con
tact between the faculty and stu
dents at Tech. It too has noticed 
that although there has been no 
great effort on the part of the stu
dents to meet the professors on an 
intellectual or social basis there 
have been a few attempts by 
sororities, the honoraries and fra
ternities to stimulate such activity. 
Unfortunately the faculty and ad
ministration have failed to reci
procate. What can be done when 
it takes two to tango?3)
Needed: Ph Ds
To the Editors of 
The New York Times:
In your issue of March 2 Ben
jamin Fine reported on recent pro
posals favoring a change in the 
graduate program of our univer
sities. As far as I can see, these 
proposals essentially amount to a 
renaming of the masters degree I 
Ph. D. and to abolishing the Ph. D. 
degree as it is now.
The deplorable result would be 
that the American Ph. D. would 
rapidly lose its good international 
standing. In fact, the Ph. D. is the 
only degree for which the require
ments are nearly uniform all over 
the world, including Russia. It 
certifies that the holder has, in 
-addition to professional compet
ence, the ability to do creative re
search. The applicant demonstrates 
this ability with his thesis, the 
most esesntial of the requirements 
for the degree.
It does not take too long for the 
brilliant student to obtain a Ph. D. 
The average student should not 
aspire to get one in the first place. 
Unfortunately, he is often not dis
couraged early enough from going 
on. There is only one way to in
crease the number of genuine 
Ph. D.s: more able students.
The shortage of college teachers 
may be alleviated somewhat if we 
do away with the prejudice that 
all college teachers ought to have 
a Ph. D. This degree should be re
quired only for those who are to 
teach graduate courses and do 
original research. A masters de
gree should be sufficient for the 
others. People with little creative 
ability are often excellent teach
ers.
We ought to re-establish the 
principle that not only the Ph. D. 
but also the masters degree is a 
[continued on page 7]
Observations
fio
Freedom Of Speech: 
A Thing Of The Past
By Richard Block
We are in danger of losing our most precious 
possession, freedom of speech. The only way in 
which to maintain hold on a privilege is to make 
use of it and cherish it. Indifference and idolence 
toward a right will cause its loss. If we do not fully 
exercise our freedom of speech and inquiry, we 
will not long have it. You might be tempted to say,
Of course, we have freedom of speech. Just try 
it. Go on. Say, for instance, that there is no God.
Or try, I like Alger Hiss. How about, Democracy 
in our country is deceiving the people with its 
half truths and its hate propaganda.
I have, of course, chosen extreme examples. But 
lets look at our text books. Most history text 
books in this country play-down the uncalled for 
offenses we caused in the Spanish-American War.
The war was a farce and we started it both for 
our glory and our territorial increase. How much 
is said about our period of industrialization when 
our treatment of labor was easily equal to the worst 
conditions of the Soviet Union.
Discussions
Do you remember having discussions concern- all 
kag the inhuman exploitation of child labor, im
ported coolie labor, Mexican labor, etc. in what 
was actual slavery? Was it in the spirit of our 
freedom that the AEC knowingly lied about the 
results of a nuclear test? What were you and I do
ing when Senator Joseph McCarthy violated hu
man dignity -and gouged his way into the rights of 
man, and where were we when the government 
fired J. Robert Oppenheimer?
You may or may not like Harold Stassen but 
you can hardly deny that he was fired because he ,ui 
believed in freedom to speak what he thought and 
what he thought didnt agree with what others in 
the state were thinking. Look at what happened 
when a student spoke out in criticism of the phys
ical education department. He was publicly hu
miliated in class the next week. There are de
partments in this university that would take crit
icism even more badly. One might even run the 
risk of being graded down or dropped entirely if 
he were to voice his feelings or exercise freedom 
of speech. While most are not imprisoned in this 
country for speaking out, many are socially chas
tised and humiliated. 
Half Truths
We are raised and bred in an atmosphere of 
half truths, platitudes, selective information, and 
lies. Our television commercials reek of falsehoods, 
as do our television programs. How can six differ
ent tooth pastes all be the best? How can break
fast cereals be wholesome when almost every 
healthful element in the grain is burned out when 
the cereal is manufactured? Nothing but generaliz
ed, false implications. If the television and radio 
programs do not plant in us the feeling that it 
doesnt matter too much if the truth is told, then 
we can get the seed from our government.
It is constantly being pounded into our heads 
feat we hate the Russians, that they are evil. This 
may be true, but we are asked to accept it on 
faith. How can they be good, they want to destroy 
us? This is our proof. It is as conclusive as the 
commercial which tells us that never before in our 
lives have we been really clean. A perfect ex- ft 
ample of selective use of information is found in 
the series of speeches the President delivered in 
late 1957. He stood beside a missile nose cone and 
implied that we had solved the re-entry problem.
This is ridiculous and we all know it. The nose 
cone had re-entered at a speed far slower than 
the "burning speed, far slower than missile re
entry could be achieved.
Little Accomplished 
In short, we had achieved nothing of any mil
itary value, or any value. He also made several 
reverent references to the Snark which is a 
militarilly useless sub-sonic missile, speaking as 
though it was an effective answer to the Soviet 
claim of ICBMs. At least, this was the implication.
He said that the B-52 bomber is our standard SAC 
bomber. He neglected, however, to mention that 
out of 45 flying wings in SAC only six are equipped 
with B-52s, and those only partially stf. Along 
with this omission was also the fact that this small 
proportion is largely due to his own Administra
tions decision to cut back sharply on B-52 production. What has happened to the truth? Why 
arent we demanding it?
^ach side of a situation uses the facts which will 
enforce its position, and only those. Also last year, 
Charles Wilson made public a secret intelligence 
estimate that Russia had sharply cut back her pro
duction of long range bombers. He used this in
formation to justify the U.S. cut back on B-52 pro
duction. He left out the part of the intelligence 
message which showed that the Soviets were movl continued on page 7] \

---------------------------------------------------

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
OATA PROCESSING  ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER < 
SP&CUU. ENGINEERING PRODUCTS  SUPPLIES
famingTd ywDDNnL 
 TIME EOUfPMEUT
Tuesday, April 1, 1958CARNEGIE TARTAN
Rifle Team Wins Sectional, GPRL 
Leagues; Polansky Individual High
The Tech Riflemen beat W&J 
Friday night 1413 to 1394 to cinch 
the Greater Pittsburgh Rifle 
L/'Sgue crown for the second time 
in three years. Tech took the 56 
title and finished second to West 
Virginia in 57.
The current GPRL standings 
with one more league match to 
fire are:
CIT ................
Won
.........10
Los t
1
DUQ......................... 73
W&J......................... 74
WVU ....................... 75
it^TT......... 66
Ind. Teach. ........ 19
Geneva ......____ 111
On March 15 Tech shooters par
ticipated in the National Rifle As
sociation Sectional Match at Co
lumbus, Ohio with twenty-two top 
teams from Pennsylvania, Ohio, 
Kentucky, Michigan, and Illinois. 
Tech team No. 1 won the team 
title with a score of 1414, and 
Tech team No. 2 was tenth. Team 
N(*ll2 which was composed largely 
of freshmen, beat several of the 
Big 10 teams.
Polansky Tops 
There were also individual 
awards at Columbus. Vic Polan
sky won the individual crown for 
the second consecutive year with 
a score of 293 out of 300. Jack 
Brown of Tech was second with a 
289 and a University of Michigan 
shooter was third. (The Michigan 
te<?& took second in the team 
match.
overtook them. The four graduat
ing Seniors will certainly be miss
ed next year; however, the team 
has exceptional strength in the 
present Junior and Freshmen 
classes. This depth has been a 
big factor in the teams success 
this year.
Tech fires in the West Penn 
Conference as well as the Greater 
Pitt League, but firing in the 
WPC wont be completed till mid 
April. The way things shape up 
in that conference it looks like a 
shoot-off may be necessary be
tween Tech and Duquesne for the 
title.
Box' Score 
CIT 1413
Vic Polansky .................. 287
Joe Smith ...................... 283
John Jenkins .................. 283
Jack Brown .................. 280
Don Cronauer ................ 280
Arny Thunborg .........., . 279
Ben Freudenreich . <. .. . 277
Bill Darby ...................... 276
Chuck Garda .................. 273 IThis Columbus Section is one of 
17 sectional matches fired through
out the country during the month 
of March. The National Intercol
legiate team and individual 
champions will be selected from 
the composite results of these 
seventeen sectionals. We wont 
know , until sometime in April 
how our team and individuals 
pli^fed on a national basis.
Four Seniors 
The squad this year includes 
seniors: Jack Brown, Don Cron
auer, Bill Dai by, and Bill Hughes; 
juniors: Bill Harris, John Jenk
ins, Vic Polansky, and Joe Smith; 
sophomores: Steve Tecot, and Guy 
Wallis; freshmen: Tom Cametti, 
Ben Freudenreich, Chuck Garda, 
John Landwehr, Les Morris, Ches
ter Page, Arvy Thurnborg, and 
Gc. Turnquist. Larry Burtner 
and Ed Koll fired early in the 
season before academic problems
WRITE Contest
Very Successful
When Pi Delta Epsilon initiated 
the WRITE contestiWhich ended 
on March 15in November, it 
wi ) stimated that no more than 
ten entries w'ould be submitted. 
This figur was arrived at after 
consideration of such factors as 
the reach of the advertising 
campaign, the free time needed 
by students who would even con
sider submitting entries, and our 
old friend, student apathy.
Happily, the number of en
trants surpassed our estimate of 
the, number of entries, and some 
of v^e contestants submitted more 
than one entry.
In all, thre are some forty en
tries now being judged by our 
panel of faculty members which 
consists of: Professor William
Schutte, instructor in Techs 
course of creative writing and 
assistant to President Warner; Dr. 
Margaret LeCtair, dean of Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College; 
and Miss Gladys Schmidt, English 
in^t iictor in the College of Fine 
Arts and noted novelists.
An interesting side-light is that 
fewif anyfraternity men en
tered WRITE. We do not wish to 
delve too deeply into this subject 
in view of its most controversial 
aspect.
Another interesting side-light is 
that there were no entries in the 
TechnicaJs competition  and 
thir is a technical school, too.
Bill Harris ..........................271
High 5 Count....................1413
W&J 1394
Trew ................................. 292
Turcke ..........................278
Garretson ......................... 276
Zimmerman....................... 275
Thompson ......................... 273
Johnson ................... 264
Reynolds ....................... . 264
Collar ............................. 249
High 5 Total ....................1394
Columbus Seetional 
CIT Team No. 1
Jack Brown ................... 288
John Jenkins ................... 284
Vic Polansky .................... 293
Joe Smith ................. 282
Arny Ttrttnborg ............... 277
Sales Representative Gene W. McGrew came to IBM 
following his military service after college. Here he 
reviews his progress and tells why the electronic data 
processing field offers one of the most exciting sales 
careers in America today.
What's it like to be with
1414
CIT Team No.2 X
Ben Freudenreich . .___ 277
Bill Darby ..............___274
Chuck Garda ..........___272
Don Cronauer..........___270
Gary Turnquist ....270
1363
Tennis Preparations
Mr. Moses and tennis enthusiasts set up the net on one 
seven tennis courts in preparation for the season.
Buy Your Thistle
Gene McGrew won a scholarship and went through 
Princeton in the top third of his class . . . managed 
varsity track . . . commanded an artillery battery in 
Korea. When you put a lot of preparation into your 
career, Gene McGrew feels, you should look for a 
lot in return.
Out of the Army in 1953, he discussed IBM with a sales 
representative. It sounded like real opportunity. After 
an interview with an IBM branch manager, Gene 
McGrew was sure. Although sales was only one of many 
jobs he felt he could handle, this kind of selling (IBM 
machines are as much an idea as a product) would enable 
him to capitalize fully on his education, experience, and 
talents. Hes learned also that no other form of train
ing or career development I can think of provides such 
diveijpity of experience in all phases of business and 
industrial activity. This kind of training and experience 
develops top business executives.
Thus began an extensive and interesting training pro
gram marked by merit salary increases. The first three
months of the train
ing course combined 
introductory machine 
schooling and obser
vation of branch office 
operations in Pitts
burgh (his home 
town). The next three 
months were spent 
studying the applica
tion of the Companys 
data processing ma
chines to major phases 
of accounting in busi-Outlining programming test .ness, science and 
government. With this background of know-how, Gene 
McGrew was ready for seven months of practical field 
training, during which he became a real contributing 
member of the sales team, working with a succession of 
experienced salesmen in a variety of situations with 
many different customers. With this experience behind 
him, he was ready for IBMs famous sales school, a 
final five-week polishing course in selling techniques.
Receives first assignment
Upon the successful conclusion of this course he was 
given his long-awaited first sales assignment, his own 
territory near Pittsburgh. This territory was comprised 
of ome fourteen companies presently using IBM 
equipment, together with many companies who were 
logical- potential users. Gene McGrew's job is to assist 
his custothrs in achieving maximum efficiency through 
the use of their equipment, as well as to help them extend its use to new applications. He is also responsible 
for the development of new business. His biggest sale 
was to a large industrial 
corporation. Now in
stalled, this IBM elec
tronic system simplifies 
various major phases 
of the customers ac
counting work. His fine 
job with this customer 
resulted in the ex
panded use of equip
ment and the orderingof three additional Discussing cslomer's installoti.
medium-sized data processing machines. He is now
- working to develop the sale of one of IBM's largest 
computers, the 705, to another customer.
Future wide open
Advancement opportunities in IBM, Gene McGrew 
are excellent, as youd expect in the leading com
pany in a dynamic and 
rapidly expanding in
dustry. Ahead of me on 
the sales management 
advancement road are 
nearly two hundred 
Branch Managerships, 
seventeen District 
Managerships, and nu
merous executive posi
tions at the Regional 
and Headquarters 
level in five different
Checking out new client's system divisions.
This profile is just one example of what its like to be 
with IBM. There are excellent opportunities for wellqualified college men in Research, Development, Man
ufacturing, Sales and Applied Science. Why not ask 
your College Placement Director when IBM will next 
interview on your campus? Or, for information about 
how your degree will fit you for an IBM career, just 
write or call the manager of the nearest IBM office:
IBM Corp. 421 Seventh Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 1, 1958
McKeen MVP 
In IM B-Ball
In balloting by the managers 
of all the I.M. basketball teams 
last week, the standout teams 
from each league and from the 
whole school, and the schools 
most valuable player were se
lected.
Heading the list as the 1958 
M.V.P. is Ev MceKen, whose skill
ed basketballery almost singlehandedly sparked the Grad Iggies 
to a semi-finals berth. Ev, the 
second tallest man in I.M. ball, is 
a superb rebounder, displays 
smooth court play, and dropped 
in many points on hook and jump 
shots. A first-year graduate SIA 
student, Ev was a regular on the 
California University squad last 
year.
Men from three other teams 
rounded out the all-school five. 
Boyd Doxtoder and Ken Ficery, 
both ex-varsity players, led the 
Rockets to the second champion
ship. Dave Blackie Densmore, 
another ex-varsity man, was the 
stalwart of a surprising ASCE 
team. Beisler of the English
men was mainly responsible for 
his teams reaching the semi
finals in the play-offs.
All School 
M.V.P.: McKeenGrad Iggies 
DoxtaderRockets 
BeislerEnglishmen 
FiceryRockets 
DensmoreASCE
All League 
Tartan 
DensmoreASCE 
RalstonASCE 
SucevicASCE 
WrightSAE 
WhiteASCE
Skibo
MuthTKN 
RappGrads 
HoreyFalcons 
PhillipsTKN 
GesueATO
Plaid 
BrownDTD 
EnglishBOP 
Wolf sonTDP
Track Team 
Shaping Up
The Varsity track team is fast 
getting in shape for their first 
meet on April 12 against the 
Jeanette Harriers, a team of ex
college track sta^s.
Under the able tutoring of new 
coach Jim Farson, the Tartans 
will feature a team of fast sprint
ers and distance men.
Ty Porter and Mike Tompkins 
will be main threats in the 100 
and 220 yard dashes, while Eric 
Suggs returns to lead the quarter 
milers, Pat Chamay and Will 
Whitman will carry Skibo hopes 
in the half mile and mile runs, 
and Dick Hamilton and Eric Ottervik, last years tri-state cham
pion will be threats in the two 
mile event.
Tech should be stronger in field 
events this year with the return 
of high jumper Paul Hauser and 
javelin thrower Joe Frick. Bob 
Brennand and Bill Schneidereith, 
newcomers to the team will be 
counted on for lne performances 
in field events also.
In addition there are sevearl 
newcomers' to the team seeking 
berths in most every event. Tech 
should have good depth this year 
and should have a fine season 
ahead.
BowenDTD 
Per lm u tterTDP 
Tech 
MontiniKS 
SchneidmillerCitcom 
WatsonKS 
PattenTX 
BennerKS
Kiltie
DoxtaderRockets 
FiceryR ockets 
NiethamerATO B 
LuppiATO B 
BeallRockets
Scot
McKeenGrad Iggies 
BeislerEnglishman 
MehalkoEnglishmer 
BlankGrad Iggies 
ValleyEnglishmen
MrxWl' MM Tf HV MW
BMOC
#
Big Man On Campusyea man! He 
treats the gals to Coke. Who can compete 
with charm like that. So if you're 6*0* 
and a little underweight, rememberyou 
dont have to be a football hero to be 
popular. Just rely on the good taste of 
Coke. Put in a big supply today!
SAEs Win 
Two Firsts
SAE lit Eastern 
V-Ball Playoffs
In a telegram received on Sun
day by Mr. Birdy, it was learned 
that the SAE volleyball team 
which had won the intramural 
championship at Tech had won 
fame for themselves in the East
ern Intercollegiates in which they 
competed.
The SAE team captained by 
George Thomas took first place in 
the inter-fraternity competitions 
and were then invited to compete 
in the intramural competitions. 
They again came through to win 
first place in this competition.
They then competed in the Jun
ior varsity inter-collegiate com
petition, which is coifcposed of 
teams from schools where volley
ball is a varsity sport. The Tech 
team won second place in this
IM Corner
Word from the Bird 
Co-Rec BadmintonThe school 
championship in Badminton was 
won last week by Miss R. Orda 
and Mr. D. N. Gupta.
Soccer  Games scheduled for 
March 17 were rescheduled for 
yesterday, and all other games will 
also be played two weeks later 
than originally scheduled date. 
Team rosters have been enlarged 
from 12 to 15 men.
HandballThe Faculty Bulldogs 
have not yet been exerted and 
lead the Front Wall League. First 
place in the Back Wall league is 
held by the unbeaten TXs.
SoftballTwent man rosters are
competition and were invited to 
compete in the Class A Varsity 
Collegiate competition. They lost 
in the finals of Class A to Cooper 
Union, a varsity team.
The tea?* is composed of George 
Thomas, captain, Gerry Wright, 
Bob Reiber, Dick Aust, Mike Sajevic, and Dick Civita.
-Cok*
SIGN OF 0000 TASTE
onfed authority of Tba Coco Coio Cowforty bf
OVAKEl STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
m Central STAE JHt-Ml ________
fe I registered Irt4*'iurk. 9 WW. THE COCA-COLA COMPAN1
FOOTWEAR FOB tOLLEGE HEN AND WOMEN
Acrobatics, Ski Boots, Soft and Hard Toe Slippers, Des
ert Boots, Tap Shoes, Bedroom Slippers, Ice and Roller 
Skates and Shoes, Tennis Shoes, Dress Shoes, Rubbers 
and Galoshes.
Save up to 40% Open 9 to 9
LITTLE S Shoe Store
Belter Shoes For Less5850 Forbes SI.
dse April 17, play ebgins April 21, 
if soccer is out of the way. There 
will be no softballs thrown in the 
gym. Pitrhers must practice else
where.
Horseshoes  Doubles tourna
ment entries are due April 16. 
Throwing will take place Sat., 
April 19. Call Bob Kaiser, SAE, 
for information.
Track  The intramural tra^k 
meet entries are due after East-/ 
vacation. Check the bulletin for 
correct date. Individual trophies 
will be awarded to first and sec
ond place winners. The meet will 
be run by varsity track team 
members.
WIL&UC JUST WOKE UP TO 
THE PACT THAT HE IN CLASS!
KEEP ALERT FORA 
BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
>ont let that "drowsy feel* 
log cramp your style in class 
... Ot when youre hittini 
the books. Take  NoOot 
Awakenerl to t few thjmmi
ouU be your normal befc... 
ncle awake ., . alert! Vouf 
doctor wiU tell you-~-NoDoa ' 
Awakeners are safe a$ Coffee, 
keep a pack haftdy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
35 tablets in bandy tin 
69cNQQOZ
AW AKENERS
ENGINEERS
* MECHANICAL * ELECTRONIC .? AERONAUTICAL 
? METALLURGICAL ?CIVIL
PRODUCTS DIVISION
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
will be on campus 
APRIL 22
/
8 /y
?
\)*
PRODUCTS 
DIVISION 7
e*
jL. The brooder the base,
/the brighter the fuiui
M jvtt mokat good *n rang of ob ppoftunifi* I* far wiUr
etui edvoncamcnf opportunities greater wHk a company operating 
on the K>und bat it of dftorkHUtf engineering and anwfoctvring.

---------------------------------------------------

CITY CLUB
Tuesday, April 1, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage \
Council Plans 
Square Dance
Observations
[continued from page 
ing into production of long-range missileswhich 
was the reason they were cutting down on manned 
bombers. 
Look around you. Where is our Marble Arch, 
where anyone can speak about anything at any
time? Where is our academic freedom where a 
J teacher can teach anything in any way he feels 
effective. It is getting harder to find. But most of 
all, where is the area in which a man can speak 
out for what he believes in, though it contradict the 
conforms of his society, and be respected for 
speaking? Where can a man write an article like 
this one and not risk his passport security clear
ance?
Your
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
odd GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Natrat
Walt Harper
STAE^/CTI
MAyflower 1-5270 
713 Clarissa Street
The cigarette designed for men that wom4n hh*
Mild-burning Marlboro combines a prized 
recipe (created in Richmond, Virginia) 
of the worlds great tobaccos with a 
cellulose acetate filter of consistent 
dependability. You get big friendly flavor 
with all the mildness a man could ask for.
A long white ash means 
good tobacco and s mild 
smoke.________ _____
Ml Veto > in IM
HjSISgsJB your lit you to kcrp in
Rd with 'eshioMCity Dub p-pkw 
It Msy with  Qft new selection 
Hmtoil Mrlow*,  ho <*'. OjV "d **>lovely M* MyI Se tir you>kl>K)<ty1
The filter flower of cel
lulose acetate (modern ef
fective filter material) in 
just one M nr 1 boro Selec
tors te Filter.YOU 6IT A LOT TO UKl-PHTtf  FLAVOR  fUR-TOP BOX

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 1, 1958
Gift Of Ships Prow On MH 
Costs $282.03 For Freight
By Tony -Nelson
With the completion of the original building program in 1922, the 
barren character of the campus changed markedly. Permanent lawns 
began to appear, landscaping began, and concrete walks began form
ing their network across the stretches of grass from hall to hall. Ivy 
started to creep up the walls, remnants of the construction days began
to disappear. The gardener and^-----------------------------------------------------
his crew were now full-time em- G^er end.
ployees.
Even a few extras were thrown 
in. There are two flag poles, the 
senior fence erected by the class 
of 1923, an open-air theatre, a 
stone shelter for students using 
the streetcars, and a grove of 
sycamore trees in memory of those 
who died in World War 1.
Then theres the ships prow 
down behind Porter Hall over
looking Junction Hollow. The con
crete prow was built for the 
bronze ornament in itthe figure
head from the pre-World War I 
cruiser, U.S.S. Pittsburgh. The 
ornament wras obtained by a Tech 
architect when the Navy began 
preparing its ships for action in 
1914 The figurehead is considered 
a gift from the government. Yet 
the treasurer questioned this when 
he paid the freight bill of $282.03. 
The ships prow is in an out-ofthe- way spot today. When it was 
built, however, people usually ap
proached the campus from the
The first building on campus 
was a temporary affair erected as 
a construction office. The building 
still survives today. Built by the 
contractor who erected Industries 
Hall, now Porter Hall, the first 
campus structure, this shed has 
been used through the years in 
many ways.
Shanty to Faculty Club 
The contractor left it to the 
architect who filled it with drafts
men during the busy time when 
plans were being drawn for the 
rapidly growing campus. In 1906- 
07 the shed served as a track 
house for athletes. From 1907 to 
1912 it housed the night students 
in architecture.
In 1913, the shack became the 
carpenter shop for the operating 
staff. In 1933 it became the Fac
ulty Club.
Originally located on the site of 
Administration Hall, it migrated 
to its present location where it is 
hooked on to the end of Skibo.
Calendar
[continued from page 2]
present a special concert on Tues
day, April 8, at Syria Mosque. 
Arthur Rubinstein will appear as 
guest soloist. The program will 
include:
Piano Concerto No. 3 in,
c minor...................Beethoven
Piano Concerto No. 2 in
f minor ......................Chopin
Piano Concerto No. 2 in
c minor ----------Rachmaninoff
Arthur Rubinstein, pianist 
Tickets for this concert are not 
included with the series subscrip
tion.
The Pittsburgh Symphony will 
present an All-Wagner Program 
on the weekend of April 11 and 
13. John Wabick, one of the tenor 
soloists is a Senior in the music 
department of Carnegie Tech. The 
program will include:
Tristan and Isolde Act II 
Tannhaeuser Rome Narrative 
Die Walkure Act III: Final 
Scene of Wotan and Brunhilde and Magic Fire Music 
Margaret HarshaWj soprano 
Ramon Vinay, tenor 
Otto Edelmann, bass-baritone 
Julia Lerner, mezzo-soprano 
John Wabick, tenor
A  H* Sa lB If I Silk Pk i
'jFm 1 8 ' MB . * I ;
CLASS of 58!
I
wm
If you're obtaining a degree in
 Electrical Engineering
 Engineering Physics
 Chemical Engineering
 Mechanical Engineering
 Mathematics
 Physics
 Physical Chemistry
there's a PERMANENT CAREER
and UNLIMITED FUTURE
awaiting you at
PHILCOI
If you want to do creative work on
Television, Radio, Communications Equip
ment, Microwave Systems, Multiplex.
Equipment ...
If you're interested in theoretical and 
experimental work in Solid State, Electron 
Optics, Acoustics, Applied Mathematics,
Transistors and other Semi-Conductor 
devices . . .
If you prefer to apply your creative
talents to the development and design 
of Refrigerators, Air Conditioners, Ranges,
Home Laundry and other Household 
Appliances . . .
If you're intrigued by the challenge
and complexity of the engineering prob
lems in Guided Missiles, High Speed Data 
Processing, Bombing and Fire Control Sys
tems, Infrared Devices and Underwater 
Ordnance . . .
If you want to launch your profes
sional career in Systems Engineering,
Automatic Machinery, Mechanized Equip
ment, Instrumentation and Controls . . .
If you'd like the chance to work with 
and goin inspiration from a distinguished
-------------------------------------- then . . .
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE NOW 
and establish an interview with 
PHILCO REPRESENTATIVES
APRIL 14
corps of scientists and engineers pioneer
ing in new products, new techniques, new 
processes for the security, well-being and 
progress of the American public, American 
industry and the Armed Forces . . .
If you'd like to match your wits against 
truly worthwhile assignments and have 
confidence in your ability to take on in
creased responsibility and earn promo
tions on merit . . .
If you want to participate in the accom
plishments and rewards of a continually 
expanding professional staff with endless 
.opportunities for personal advancement 
and growth . . .
If you want to check your plans for the 
future against the ground-floor opportu
nities now existing in our Research and 
Engineering laboratories in the Philadel
phia or San Francisco areas . . .
If you want to learn more about the 
advantages of working with Philco, the 
generous tuition refund plan, and other 
aids to your personal and professional 
development and growth . . .
OR
Write today for a copy of "Your Future With Philco" 
to Mr, R. C. Bock, College Relations Coordinator
PHILCO CORPOR/fflON
Philadelphia 34, Pa.
.
!
Eye-Catcher
[continued from page 2] 
Schmertz and Dean Rice praised 
the original campus architect, 
Henry Hornbostle for achieving an 
architectural expression for Car
negie that was unique, unified, 
imaginative, and powerful, yet 
forward and academically func
tional for his own day and age. 
Both speakers felt that the new 
buildings must relate, then, in 
terms to the old in terms of mass, 
scale, and material expression.
Because* designs in the last 
two years have been lacking in 
distinction, Dean Rice seeks cin 
architectural expression that ful
fills the desired aesthetic re
quirements. Certainly, it was 
hoped that the three groups con
cerned writh the design of the 
Union, the users, the President and 
the Board of Trustees, and the 
Design Committee could satisfy 
their demands within a powerful 
architectural expression. How
ever, if the final determination of 
the building lay in the basis that 
a scheme was the only way out 
then the design committee would 
feel itself no longer useful, ac
cording tt> Dean Rice. The students 
will have their opportunity to 
judge.
The New Drama Theatre
Dean Rice also 4iscussed the 
new theatre which promised to be 
advanced and highly experiment
al. Under the consultation of Mr. 
George Izenour, Professor in the 
department of drama at Yale Uni
versity who had developed the 
revolutionary preset switchboard 
for the Tech drama department, 
the new stage and theatre will be 
completely flexible. The stage, it
self, will be set in hydraulic jacks 
which will transform it into either 
a theatrein the round or a 
prescenium theatre with three var
iations that will make it larger or 
smaller, or deepen the stage area 
or make it smaller. Scenery, too, 
will operate mechanically to pro
duce an infinite potential in that 
area of production.
Now Library
Both speakers felt that the new 
Library proposal had an excellent 
plan and well proportioned facade. 
Of the graduate dormtory center, 
Dean Rice said that it will be de
veloped adjacent to and as a part 
of the newly acquired Mudge 
Mansion. Retaining the lovely 
central court, the new quad
rangle would provide dormitory 
facilities for unmarried students 
and also be their center of student 
activity.
As the meeting ended, the dis
cussion returned to the new Union 
proposals. Because of the nature 
of the union, it is solely for stu
dent use as opposed to the other 
structures of an academic nature. 
As such, it has particular sig
nificance for the student body. It 
is also a key building architectur
ally. Discussion and opinion is 
necessary on the part of students 
to effect a significant building 
for Carnegie and Pittsburgh.
History Bulletin Board 
Aids Tech Education
By Val Goodrich
The A.H. 132 hallways is featuring a strikingly display of educa- cr\ 
tional advertising in the form of the history departments bulletin
board. Within the last month the display board has been increased in
length to 16 feet and specially concealed fluorescent lighting has been
-----------------------------------------------------?added for more attractive and
-m- j  eye-saving illumination. The
IJ TVVflTV____ board, a part of the departments
visual education program, has 
been designed by faculty members 
Hugo Meier and Roy Curry for 
the purpose of teaching outside 
of class hours.
Most students relaize that history is a part of their daily lives, 
but many havent the time or in
clination to spend hours in the 
library reading pertinent histori
cal facts and trends.. The bulletin 
board offers an excellent alterna
tive, both as a supplement to 
classroom studies and as a means 
of increasing general knowledge.
Half of the boards space is de
voted to the freshman course in 
western civilization which in- fh 
volves several hundred students 
each year.
 The material in this section is 
planned to correlate with the units 
being studied in the class, and 
includes articles and pictures 
which are valuable but which 
could not be studied to advantage 
in the classroom. Currently ap
pearing is a display centering on 
Victorian England, which cor
responds to the topic of 19th cen
tury European history now being w 
studied in the freshman course. 
Freshman Section 
The remainder of the board is 
devoted to historical notes of gen
eral interest, and is much more 
varied in content. One section in 
this space includes specialized 
topics relating to the freshman 
coursethe present being a his
tory of scientific development in 
the 19th century. The central 
theme of the remaining section is  
Past and Present, which in
cludes the field of history as a 
whole.
It contains a variety of materials 
showing how history is-constantly 
reappearing in our everyday existance, right now an exhibit on 
Darwin' and Evolution appears. 
Future display topics include 
Archaeology and History, The 
Place of Women in History, The 
100th Anniversary of Teddy Wy' 
Roosevelt. The Politician and 
the Historian/ and similar sub
jects.   1
Varied Sources 
In gathering their source mate
rial, Doctors Meier and Curry 
call upon popular magazines and 
newspapers, particularly the New 
York Times. They have gathered 
thousands of clappings and a great 
deal of pictorial material which 
they keep on file for future dis- ft ) 
plays. The department has also. 
purchased copies of special pic
torial works in history which 
serve in the entire visual educa
tion program. From time to time 
a clever handdrawing may grace 
the pictorial displays. t
The members of the department 
are happy to note an increase in 
the students makiijg use of the 
board since the improvements 
were installed. Indeed, the board tp} 
in itself is a little library with 
the added advantage of having 
no restrictions regarding time or 
supply of materials available for 
use. Every student or faculty 
member, whether he presently be 
connected with a history class or 
not, would do well to keep in 
'touch w'ith the interesting and 
varied facts displayed on the his
tory bulletin board.
Kiltie Band
[continued, from page 3] 
Capriccio EspagnolRimskyKorsakov 
Around the World in Eighty 
Days Selection 
Here Comes the BandFr;ank 
Simon
Dr. Frank Simon, conduct
ing , 3
Carnival
rcontinued from page 2] 
whole campus will be free to at
tend.
Wednesday, April 23 and Thurs
day, April 24, the sororities are 
scheduled to visit the fraternity 
houses, grad dorms, and the mens 
dorms to present their candi
dates.
Balloting will take place at the 
voting booth, conducted by A Phi 
O on the cut and in Skibo on Fri
day, April 25 from 11:30 to 1:30.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-AC ARNEGIE NATR ATTuesday, April 1, 195*
Editorial
[c9rtinued frmn page 4]
The suggestion that the colleges conduct independent survey 
as to the requirements of their students has been ignored.
It now seems that the colleges have been placed or have 
placed themselves in the position of having only three alter
natives. (1) Limiting the number of persons allowed to at
tend the individual exercises, and thus the general meeting. 
This perhaps destroys one of the main advantages of the 
new plan. (2) Moving the individual exercises off campus. 
This will involve the seniors in practically an all day gradua
tion, longer than the old one at any rate. And (3) throwing 
out at least the second half of the new plan and either leaving 
only the mass graduation or putting some completely new 
idea in pleace of individual graduation.
In a past issue, the Tartan pointed out the possibility of 
this problem arising and offered and adequate solution. We 
still urge that the Tartan plan be considered, if not for this 
year ,at least for next year.
A.F.
Everything
Architects Indulge 
In Big Blum Blast
Last Friday evening the Blumcraft Company of Pittsburgh pre
sented its annual Blum Blast" for 
the Carnegie Tech architects.
The company gives this party 
each year for the students in or
der to present the awards for the 
student design competition which 
Blumcraft also sponsors annually.
The winners of the aluminum door 
design competition were: 1st place
 Joe Parimuch; 2nd place  
James Pedone; 3rd placeHenry 
Lynch; and honorable mention 
Bill Shopsin and Charles Peach.
Crepe paper and balloons ar
ranged by the junior architects 
added to the atmosphere. The 
sophomore, junior, sub-senior and 
senior classes entertained with in
dividual shows whose themes in
corporated architecture in some 
way.
A Natrat Report: 
Chaperone System 
II ndergoesClianges
A very well informed source 
(whose name is withheld for the 
safety of his family and friends 
has disclosed that the dean of wo
mens office will issue a dictum in 
the next day or two to the effect 
that all groups desiring to hold 
any social function whatsoever 
must have a chaperone.
The report went further to say 
that for evening affairs (i.e., 
after 4:30 p.m.) two chaperones 
are necessary; ALL chaperones 
must be signed up in the dean of 
womens office six months in ad
vance. This change in pblicy is 
the very thing for which student 
organizations have been pushing 
for five years.
The following may not be so 
much to their liking, although one 
can never tell. All chaperones 
signed up will be contacted by the 
deans office to ascertain their 
qualifications for the position of 
chaperone and their intentions 
with regard to the duration of 
their presence at the function. 
Any group found to have unsatis
factory chaperones will be noti
fied immediately and given 36 
hours to find new ones.
A mild student reaction is ex
pected.
[continued from page la] 
stream on cannibalistic instinct 
which is so dear to all our 
hearts. For myself I do not feel 
this is true, however, I have felt a 
great need to put the subject of all 
knowledge on a more scientific 
framework. To scoffers who scorn 
the subject let me remind you that 
the very objections which you are 
now uttering are ordered in eter
nal patience under the object of 
your ridicule. But objects become 
subjects, forms become voids, and 
Gods will be done.
Dr. E. A. Blitzch 
Helmholtz on the Rhine 
March 20, 1958 
Translator's Note 
I am deeply in debt to Prof. 
Frederick Worts (presently) of 
Woodville State Hospital for his 
untiring efforts to free Br. Blitzchs 
manuscript of grammatical errors.
R. W. D. 
Table of Contents 
Chapter 1) The Gestalt Theory 
of everything.
Chapter 2) Existentialism, ma
sochism, and Freudian interpreta
tion of everything.
Chapter 3) The Theory of the
ories.
Chapter 4) Dr. Bubert and the 
cannibal complex.
Chapter 5) Infinite Aggregates 
of Theories.Chapter 6) A finite interpreta
tion of Buberts infinite theory of
Chapter I
The Gestalt Theory of 
Everything
For many years it was thought 
that learning contributed some
thing to a mans understanding of 
everything. In the hands of Dy
son, Tomonaba, Bethe, et al, it 
became possible to reformulate the 
theory to account, quantitatively, 
for the results of the Lamb-Netherford experiments. The new 
theory now says simply that every
thing contributes to mans knowl
edge of everything. This theory 
has become known as the WorldView or Gestalt Theory of all 
Knowledge. It contains what Dy
son called a built-in-miracle in 
that certain facts which would be 
embarrassing as they pertain to 
the validity of the theory can be 
conveniently ignored.
It was the American school un
der the leadership of Operationalist, Bridgemon, who first grasped 
the deep significance of the theory. 
If all knowledge can be known as 
a synthesis of everything in the 
world, we merely have to perform 
a Gestalting operation on the 
whole world and turn the crank 
in order to produce all possible 
knowledge. Clearly this idea has 
far reaching implications!
(Editors Note: Professor Blitzchs work has been acclaimed the 
world around. However, only the 
portion of it appearing above has 
been translated from the Sudanese 
dialect of the Heiroglyphic in 
which it was written. It is hoped 
that the arduous efforts of scholars 
of Mr. Davies calibre will con
tinue the struggle.)
yours, yours, all yours. You ar
range your Platos REPUBLIC, 
your AGE OF LANALYSIS, your 
ILIAD, and your PEYTON 
PLACE neatly between two book 
end bricks which originally graced 
the Administration Hall entrance. 
(The epitome of intellectuality!)
You carefully hew your four - 
Number 2 pencils to razor edges 1 
by rotating them in your left ear. 
(Pretty sharp-witted, you!) You 
replace a cartridge in your 
NEVER- LEAK cartridge pen. 
(Well, those spotted hands make 
you look artier, anyway.) Youre 
all set! Ohyou need paper. You 
locate a pad of Dads. The in
scription, Grandads gay, and 
chipper, too, Since we mended him 
with STAYFAST glue is not XJtv 
exactly Bohemian, but you console  
yourself that it is Our Townish."
Pen Name 
First of course, you need 
a pen name. Lets see . . . Dostoi
evsky is a neat sounding one. Un
fortunately, your name is Melvin 
Potts. Well, how about Pottsoievsky? Fine, weve settled that.
Now, plot . . . hmm . . . some
thing familiar. By jove, the family 
. . . thats it! You recall all Dad's 
clever little dinner jokes .
Wed have had Hungarian Goul
ash for dinner, but we couldnt 
find a Hungarian,
Somehow, they lack the deboniar sophistication that your 
novel must possess. Perhaps a de
scription of Mothers old paintings 
would elevate the text; but anyone 
who uses those numbered draw
ings would catch on. Still, for aH 
we know, Rembrandts were num-r 
bered too! They say nothings 
ever original, you know. But the 
more you think about it, the more 
you think your novel should be a 
deep introspective examination of 
your persecution complex . . . in
cluding Dads refusal to let you 
have the car every nk'ht over 
Easter even now when you are 
twenty years old! For goodness 
sake, for all the respect you get 
around home, you might as well 
be nineteen!
An Expose
Also, a stream of conscious
ness essay about your undying 
hatred for the Mechanical Draw
ing teacher  an expose of his 
sadistic premediated class cruel
ties! Perhaps you should include 
your suspicion that he files his 
teeth before class.
Well, youve been on this for 
two hours now, and theres ahe 
soccer game at the high school. 
Maybe you should write on the 
place erf soccer in the develop
ment of youth! , Excellent! Of 
course, youll need a little first
hand evidence. Lets see, where 
did you put your jacket , . .?
School Dictum: 
No Vacations 
For Robt Hall
Vacation time and you are im
pressing the family with your 
great -intellect. You have cleared 
off the living room desk of all 
its 1948 Robert Hall advertise
ments and the surface area is
Have you bought your . . 
THISTLE?-GET BUSY
SOLD IN SKIBO TUESDAY AND THURSDAY 11:30 TO 1:30
space.Chapter 7) A statistical theory 
of everything.
Chapter 8) Epilogue: How to be 
successful with your knowledge of 
everything.
Chapter 9) Epilogue 2: How to 
pleas your friends and wife with 
your knowledge of everything. 
Appendix
ub
This space provided so that the reader 
may rest his eyes winch are undoubtedly 
weary from reading this tabloid.
Compliments of PFC*
*Panam%nin Flea CircaOt)

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 1, 195CARNEGIE NATRATPa*e 3-A
In Memoriam
J. WELLINGTON ABERCROMBIE PHUGG
DECEASED OCTODEll 7, 1957
In theh summer of 1948 the Carnegie 
Tech campus was visited by a very regal 
young canine. His origin remains to this day 
shrouded in such mystery that even the most 
astute persons present at that time could 
not ascertain the source of J. Wellington 
Abercrombie Phugg. This unknown in 1948 
came to be the most revered figure in Techs 
Chemistry Department and the one campus 
figure upon whose presence in front of EH 
one could rely unreservedly, until his un
timely death.
The 8 to 12 month old pup one day follow
ed a grad student, presumably a man nam
ed Mandamioditis, to Whitfield Hall where 
his new friend fed him. Grad student Man
damioditis became the first of Phuggs most 
intimate companions. Phugg was a one man 
canine in his beginnings at CIT. There were 
two others succeeding the aforementioned; 
George Baldwin, an EE oddly enough (the 
explanation here, due to Professor Carlin, is 
that George was just a chemist at heart, but 
only Phugg could discern it), and Bill McIn
tyre, a chemist, were the others. Phugg be
came a devotee of chemistry and began tak
ing graduate work.
Medical History
A most interesting facet of J. Wellingtons 
existence is his medical history. Difficulties 
presumably began in 1950 when, still a pup, 
he had encephalitis. Worried graduate stu
dents rushed him to the veterinarians where 
the best of care was given him. In the course 
of the disease all the hair on the afflicted 
canine (one should never refer to J. Welling
ton Abercrombie Phugg as an animal) fell 
off. *
A high tribute was paid to Phugg when 
Professor Carlin noted that Phugg had miss
ed not a single class during his illness.
Time and hormones grew it gack every
where excepting the tail. The continued sight 
of his rats tail caused no insignificant con
cern among his benefactors. Again taken to 
the vet, Phugg was pronounced prematurely 
senile and given more hormones. His tail 
feathers were restorted, but the prohibitive 
cost of medication engendered its stoppage. 
The rats tail emerged again from beneath
Phuggs fine plumage.t
Chalk Hunger
Another curious aspect of the canine 
chemists life concerns his voracious failing 
for chalk. This is best demonstrated by an 
anecdote, from the files of Professor Can jar, 
having to do with an oral examination in 
chemistry which a grad student was under 
going in fulfillment of the requirements of 
the PhD. The meeting had started and was 
well underway when Phugg, waiting outside 
began to while. Thinking a doctoral exam
ination no place for a creatture as undigni
fied as a (shudder) dog, the faculty let the 
howling go unnoticed.
Phugg not one to be put off so easily in
creased his volume several decibels and ex
ceeded the duration expected manyfold, until 
he had gained entrance. Inside he placed 
himself at the feet of his grad student com
panion and appeared contented. Midway 
through the oral, however, a rather obvious 
crunching was heard from J. Wellington. He 
had his chalk and was consuming it. The at
traction for this substance has been com
monly attributed to acute acidosis of the 
stomach.
Demanded Respect
J. Wellington Abercrombie Phugg de
manded the respect of all that approached 
him. He maintained his bearing in all situa
tions. He held the world at bay with a cool 
eye which told all who observed that here
Krajewski
J. Wellington Abercrombie Phugg
His name shall live forever.
was a canine among canines. When some
one tried to pat him he would back off 
maintaining a cool reserve. His critical na
ture led him to hold all non-engineers in ut
most contempt. He never, it is rumored, al
lowed himself to enter Administration Hall. 
His relationship with physicists was also 
rather strained. The only person ever to feel 
the wrath erf Phugg was a physicist who suf
fered lacerations from Phuggs teeth. When
ever this miserable physicist entered the 
domain of J. Wellington Abercrombie Phugg 
he fell under threat of attack.
Advanced Thermodynamics
This educated canine has been accorded 
the title of thespian. Indeed his repertoire 
of tricks is renowned in chemistry labs and 
classrooms throughout Engineering Hall. He 
often, when bored with a lecture would 
yawn, amble to the front of the class, appro
priate an attractive piece of chalk and calm
ly chew it up, quite unconcerned with the 
class. It has been set down by the instructor 
however, that the Honorable Phugg was the 
most interested looking student in Professor 
Canjars Advanced Thermodynamics (for 
PhD candidates).
The story has also been told of the in
stance when the Phugg line was almost pro
pagated. J. Wellington was attending one 
of his less high powered classes, and was not 
paying strict attention when a bitch in heat 
passed by outside. Sensing her presence 
Plfugg became -af-oused and began a mad 
scramble. His classmates grasping the im
portance and the urgency of the situation, 
attempted to aid their friends cause by open
ing doors. He was freed to pursue his inter
ests. The outcome remains a mystery. There 
are waning hopes that a Phugg II will some
day appear.
Phugg Legend True
There is one further subject with regard 
to the chemists best friend which deserves 
exploration. Whence came the appellation 
which has been the largest portion of this 
canine? J. Wellington Abercrombie Phugg 
obviously suffered from the imaginations of 
several grad students in this respect. How
ever, the embellishments go only as far as 
his first three names. There is a rather wide
ly spread rumor that the last name was de
rived from that of a prominent chemistry 
professor. The J has meaning, unknown.
When the grad students moved to Mudge 
House across Forbes Street, it became appar
ent that Phugg could not go with them. He 
was not up to the rigors of Forbes Street. 
Professor Can jar took charge of the old souls 
living quarters, finding a comfortable and 
warm place in the MH boiler room for 
Phugg. However, continued failure to control 
his elimination resulted in eviction. It was 
apparent that homeless and unwanted J. 
Wellington Abercrombie Phugg, author of 
such noted works as Physiological Proper
ties of Methronine or How to Grow Feath
ers on a Dog, must succumb to the cruel 
hand of progress. He met his undeserved end 
at the hands of a veterinarian on October 7, 
1957.
E.H.R.

---------------------------------------------------

CABBB Praised
^tld like to take .this opportunity to congratulate 
*- speedy decision concerning the much needed 
Despite the cost, the Building and Developgiven Tech the one building which is dear to-) 
very student who has ever sung Fol-de- rol-de\
Students Shamefully Ignorant ' 
Of Workings Of Best Friend
It has been recently called to our attention that there 
is a great deal of ignorance on our campus concerning a most 
important implementthe lead pencil. This is a shameful'
circumstance since it is a wel'^-------------------- -----------*-------------
known fact that when one enters _. , , ,__ the^college, one relinquishes the com
mon dog to his best friend and 
adopts the lead pencil, (an advan
tageous switch since the pencil 
neednt be fed). As a result of 
this shocking information, we have 
decided to enlighten our campus 
as to the vital statistics, history 
and manufacturing process of our 
Best Friend.
History
About 400 years ago our little 
buddy, in his crude form, was 
born. Actually this first lead pen
cil shouldnt be called a lead pen
cil because it wasnt . . . for that 
matter, our modern lead pencils
INEXPENSIVE 
ACCOMMODATIONS
WORLD
FAMOUS
PROGRAM
CENTER
The William Sloane House Y.M.C.A. is a home in New York City for students, faculty members and administrators from everywhere!Hnioy clean rooms, coffee shop, tailor, barber, TV room, sports, forums and tours. All size groups are invited. Rates: $2.20. single, $3-$3.40 double. Mem? bership included.Write for folder C
WILLIAM SLOANE HOUSE Y.M.C.A.
356 West 34th St. (nr Ninth Ave.)
New York, N. Y. Phone: OXford 5-5133(One Block From Penn Station)
are misnamed too because uie^.% 
contain no lead and are not really 
pencils.
The lead is actually graphite, 
(from the Greek word, graphein, 
meaning to write) a pure car
bon. The word pencil is from 
the Latin peneillupn, meaning 
little tail, for the first pencils 
were fine brushes of hair or fine 
bristles. At any rate, the lead pen
cil was born, misnamed as it was.
It took the form of a wooden tub** j 
holding a piece of graphite . . . Lr 
crude affair. This graphite holding 
was later replaced by a metal 
holder or port crayon as it was 
called. Finally in 1686, a means of 
putting the graphite between 
strips of wood was discovered and 
the present day form of pencil ar
rived.
ManufacturingActually, the making of pencils 
is a form of sandwich with thr ^ 
wood as the bread, the graphite as ' 
the filling and adhesives as the 
sandwich dressing. The pencil, as 
can be noted from the former 
process, is not made as a com
monly surmisedi.e. by drilling 
holes in rounded pieces of wood 
and forcing rounded lead into the 
tiny holes.rThe modern lead pencil is cap
able of drawing a line 35 miles 
long, it can write an average of 
45,000 words and can take at.-* 
average of 17 sharpenings.
There is a pencil for almost 
every purpose. The industry now 
supplies 370 different types and 
styles in more than 70 different 
colors and in 18 degrees of hard
ness. But of all the colors there is 
one that is, by a wide margin, the 
champion . . . yellow. This single 
color makes up more than 75% of 
the pencils sold. Why? No one 
seems to know. *
i Committee of the Planning Committee of the
rd for Better Buildings (names of persons to be
* ie dean after the success of the new Union has
d) viewed dozens of plans presented by many
well-known architects. Since none of these, in
the Administration, would fit the needs of the
anizations, this committee decided that the only J
as to buy the Pitt Cathedral (?) building and movet vCut.
many years of service this building has proven that 
Vs the needs of a school quite similar to Tech. The 
e Committee when it authorized this purchase felt 
"he building had been successful there it would work f ' - ' - 
/Unfortunately the moving plans were held up one dajO 
' n the committee overlooked a rule set up by another 
-nmittee. At 3:00 Dr. Warner raced into the cashiers office 
cash a check for the purchase. To his dismay he discovered 
^at he'could not get any money, despite the fact that he was 
oviously a Techite. Not only had he forgotten his ID card, 
it the check was for $25.50. The Committees plans were only 
ompletely upset, but the cashier deserves honorable mention 
?or sticking to his guns.
The acquisition of the New Union came as a complete " 
surprise to many students and to the faculty. However, we 
should realize that the Executive Board and the Development 
Office had our best work at heart when they did not allow 
us to neglect our studies in order to help with the moving. It 
may not be exactly what we had envisions but w-' shouldnt 
look a gift horse in the mouth. Besides what is good for other 
schools is good enough for us?
Two with the recipe for success.
Who says natural gas is a man's business? These 
two young women prove differently.
Miss Patricia Huff is General Home Service 
Director of the Ohio Fuel Gas Company, a part 
of the Columbia Gas System. She heads a staff 
of more than fifty home service advisers like Mrs. 
Patricia Shortz (left). These home service spe
cialists counsel homemakers in cooking, launder
ing, kitchen planning, and proper use of natural 
gas appliances.
Opportunities are almost unlimited-in this vast 
growing System.
Activities in the home service departments range 
from home calls to radio and television appear
ances. In between these may be writing, research
ing, teaching, demonstrating, and answering 
homemakers requests.
If you would like to do important, enjoyable work 
in a pleasant, modern atmosphere, you may ob
tain more information about a home economics 
career with one of Columbia Gas Systems oper
ating companies by contacting your placement 
office or writing to the Director of Employee 
Relations at the Group Company in which you 
are interested.APRIL 9
GAS SYSTEM SERVICE CORPORATIOM 
20 East AI st Street. New York 17, N. V.
CHARLESTON CROUP: United Fuel Gas Company. 1700 MaeCorkte Avenue. S Charletton, Wett Virginia.
COLUMBUS CROUP: The Ohio fuel Oa Company. 99 North Front St.. Columbut IS, Ohio. 
JTITTSBURCH CROUP; The Manufacturert Light and Heat Company, 900 Vnifn Trutl OUg.. Pitttbvrth 19. Pa. .

---------------------------------------------------

'National Fan
VOL. 51No. 21a CARNEGIE TECH
CIT Hires P. Towele
Lester O. Lester
Doorman Emeritus on Wide Wide World.
Girkler
Sport Enthusiasts 
Co-Ree Program 
Blast Departments
In recent weeks the school ath
letic department has been slam
med for not providing efficient 
athletic facilities for students; 
however critics have overlooked 
the most obvious fault of this de
partment  its failure to support 
a well known powder puff football 
team.
Everyone knows that this corecreational sport provides not 
only exercise for both male and 
female students but is also the 
means whereby many a hairy 
athlete (male that is) has found 
his partner for life.
Natrats roving reporter has re
ceived the following comments 
from sport lovers about campus 
on this subject
Rufus Derby  This strongly 
calls to my mind the story of an 
old plantation owner beating all 
of his slaves with powder puffs 
when one displeases him.
Mrs. Green, Something to keep 
the girls, out of trouble, I think. 
Mr. Birdy, I give up.
Frank Towel  I though those 
%!!1ft!l&fl| boys were bad about 
towels, but these coeds, whew. 
Frosh Coed  As I understand 
it, its just like football but a pow
der puff is used instead. I cant 
think of anything Id rather do 
than be hit with a powder puff, 
Oh, why did I ever leave high 
school."
In a Natrat interview Doorman 
Lester disclosed that this will not 
be his first experience with mass 
media. He is an old hand, having 
appeared on WRCTs popular 
Night Train some five years ago.
Lester began his illustrious ca
reer a number of years ago oper
ating the in-out doors on a small 
A&P in Punxsutawney before the 
advent of the electrically operated 
doors. This modern marvel threw 
many doormen of lesser calibre 
out of work, however, for Lester, 
this proved to be but the beginn
ing of a rise to even greater 
heights. After leaving the A&P, 
his services were immediately 
grabbed up by the Strand Theatre 
in Oakland, a nationally known 
entertainment spot.
His amazing ability to keep per
sons from coming in the exit doors 
soon won him national promi
nence. In fact it was this ability 
which eventually won him the 
much desired post at Morewood. 
He is now judged by many to be 
the top Doorman in the world
During the nationwide telecast, 
Lester O. Lester will demonstrate 
some of the methods he has de
veloped for dealing with drunks, 
panty-raiders, and housemothers. 
He will also show how to cope 
with such everyday experiences as 
soap in the fountain and giant 
flaming crosses. In addition, the 
problems of a single man living 
with 432 Morewood girls will be 
aired.
Lester attributes his success as 
a doorman to his early childhood 
training, where he was taught to 
live by the old adage, Never lock
Financial Dept. It might draw the barn door after the horse has
crowds at that.been stolen. Says Lester, I've
Popular opinion cant be denied j never lost a horse yetat least not 
 athletic department take notice, a good one.
In Development Move
In line with the CIT Development program, which is de
signed in part to bolster the Tech faculty, an assistant Towel 
B-stributor has been hired. Mr. Panther M. Towele comes to 
Carnegie from the University of Pittsbarf 
In seeking an assistant for FA-----------------------------------------------------
M. Towel, the Administration 
needed someone with perseverence 
and the gruff tenacity which is the 
mark of a first rate dispenser. The 
qualifications of Mr. Panther M. 
Towele are pointed up by his ex
cellent record at Pittsbarf. In all 
of his twenty years, he never let 
a student use more than one towel. 
Srys P.M., Hey boy! Tekela! 
Panther M. is known to use low 
sheep dip content towels, and has 
a keen nose for detecting any 
breech of standards
Of course the duties of Mr. 
Towele will extend far beyond his 
window in the locker room. He 
will be in charge of the Depart
ments giant footpowder bin and 
may also serve as a substitute for 
Lester O. Lester, Morewood Doortan Emeritus, on the latters nightE
Mr. Panther Towele is a firm 
believer in the survival of the fit
test (and what college student 
looks fit to a towel dispenser). 
He says that his policy will be an 
eye for an eye and a tooth for a 
tooth and two towels are equal to 
one right arm.
Mr. Panther M. Towele is an en
thusiastic addition to Techs na
tionally prominent faculty. In ad
dition to his regular duties, he has 
offered to instruct any interested 
students who are willing to let 
their fingernails grow, in the little 
known art of telephone pole 
climbing without the aid of manmade devices. As Mr. Towele told 
a Natrat interviewer, Pole climb
ing is a real body-builder. To 
think that I was once a 97-pound 
weakling.
joice
Blitzcl.
Proi.
creasing
of possible man
kind (which is so dear to all our 
hearts .*
Catholic World 
* * *
I have found a new God and
I will drink with Him.
Dr. E. Teller* * *
Author's Preface 
For some time now I have been 
asked to complete the series of 
lectures which I gave during the 
summer of that year at Westchestingshire University. The 
present volume is the result of 
these requests.
In large this volume is an at
tempt to follow up the monumental 
pioneer work of Prof. Bubert at 
Harvard in his controversial Can
nibalism and Knowledge. Some 
educators seemed to feel that Dr. 
Bubeft was just a bit presump
tuous in trying to relate all hu
man knowledge to the deep quiet 
[continued on page 4a]
MMCC Gets Millings worth
Miss Abigale Millingsworth
Interested in Morewood Field Hockey League.
Recently appointed to the 
MMCC faculty was Miss Abigale 
Millingsworth, who will fill the 
position recently left vacant by 
\ie retirement of Miss Laura Wel
lington. Miss Wellingtons retire
ment at the age of 107 came as 
quite a shock to the MMCC Dean 
and faculty, but, as Miss Welling
ton pointed out, One needs to 
take time out to enjoy life.
Miss Millingsworth comes to 
Tech from Vassar, where she in
structed in paper pasting III and 
{hie History and Appreciation of 
Modern Fashion I. As can be seen 
from the candid photograph above, 
taken at her home in Boston, Miss 
Millingsworth spends much of her 
spare time examining dressmak
ing materials and devising new 
pasting methods. In addition to 
being an expert in the abstract 
theories developed in her field of 
Modern Fashion, her exquisite 
wardrobe points out her ability in 
%, actical applications. Outsde of
her teaching duties here, she ex
pressed interest in organizing a 
Morewood Field Hockey League.
Though only 73 years old, Miss 
Millingsworth says she plans to 
teach for only 17 more years.
