aito the 
Billy ha ranged^*
Last Friday and Saturday 
ning, spectators of the CIT pool 
Danced Through the Ages with 
the Tarquans in their annual 
water ballet.
The program featured twelve 
dances progressing from primitive 
African through bHlt and Char
leston to Calypso. rp-'
volved a'rqulid the If&a hkobynd^ 
itolucted admost sJa thirtV^arqu^l n^n/bers. // / . /
^ "Daiiyid/y tho
pf?ttrrjng x/bcJOWwith sr^dan^: 
each V the /xlgek. Costfimes^pGood! propria\ to \ach Vtyle otSjancinS'
Dorm Council certainly added were warn f<\ th^ various nurflito this fcltows Christmas joy. bers. / rr \ j\ A Trjwly KebaL^wam a balietzsolo
watche4^ar*ons for a^half hour, jj/rfhe absenpeof Carol H^&^MfterAijhen thsUsiwtoons wcMi over, LejaTqfcttn prejtffent. Sally Bffkm^wid 
agaSt scpke Op the troyt bwfr-tnis ^hLjib^ws narration^ffn\ji<micn a 
w^ speakiSg^ts Santa i brief history of t#5F>aance was
\ CCoiltilued on Pgvt 5) Ven.
ive level as Jnfe 
ynd coordinato*' 
li all ofJKhi/ly 
Wf throjgm (iU.
i > Presently cfnsicP 
; pition a ifumb^f 
gtheredythroughj 
I otler institutions,] 
|emt se^ices^nU 
adnlmistrtorsASug*
ont est
rerry Christmas -Happy New Year
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF T
VOLUME 52NUMBER 11
%dministration
Carnegie To Have 
A Dean Of Men
By John Olmsted and Bill Rich
The position of dean of men on the Tech campus is be
ing recreated, effective September 1959, according to an an
nouncement last week by Dr. G. K. Brown, Dean of the Divi
sion of Student Personnel and Welfare.
Tentatively, the new dean will take over such responsi
bilities as counseling and guid-^ 
ance of male students and select
ed student organizations, disciplin
ary problems, draft exemptions 
('m- students, and the advising of 
lm-eign students and Fulbright 
scholars. In addition, he will work 
closely with the dean of women 
on policy affairs.
Work Overloads 
When the position of dean of 
men was eliminated some years 
ago, his duties we;e spread among 
various members of the adminis
trative staff. However, recent ex
pansion of duties of some admin
istrative offices, particularly those 
*the coordinator of student ac
tivities, has caused numerous work 
overloads.
With the construction of a new 
student union, Dean Strick antici
pates that his office will become 
more concerned with general stu
dent activities centering around 
the Union. This will create a need 
 for an office coordinating other 
student affairs. For these reasons 
JO the office is being recreated.
^ Change of Plans 
Originally, it was planned to 
employ a dean of men at the same 
time that the Union was complet
ed, but it is now felt that the ex
perience which the nfew dean can 
gain in working for a year with 
Dr. Strick and other administra
tive officers will be of considera
ble value. The two men will prob
ably work together throughout the 
^59-60 school year, after that 
fay will assume their separate 
duties.
^he new office will be on the
Billy May To Play
--------------------------L_-------------- .Frankie Le) 
Atjanuar
Library Schedule
All two-week books are due 
in the library December 19. 
Books needed over the Christ
mas Recess may be renewed 
December 18 or 19 and will be 
due January 5. The libraries 
will be open December 22, 23, 
and December 29, 30, 31, and 
January 2.
Tech Dorm Councils 
Sponsor Xmas Party
On Saturday, December 13, the members of Mens and 
Womens Dormitory Councils, assisted by residents of Morewood and the mens dorms, held a Christmas Party for 98 
little boys, students of the Turner Institute.
The party which was held in Donner Hall lounge was 
opened by Len Cozza, president of^-----------------------------------------------------
mens dorm council. Len gave a 1 T T fit* f111 fill welcome speech and then direct- -* / -* t-tf tlll/ll119
ed the boys to seats where they -m-mr resent Ballet
ence
his inauspicious entry 
nn|sical>^ield and today, 
trumpet and arthe^great Glenn Miller, 
n such network shows 
f iled Skelton and Bob 
y, and was musical director 
Oz^ifrrand Harriet Show. His 
nt sfiicpesn came almost overt ^tlV^fljs first Capitol ree#se u|r l#l.
if
same adminis 
dean of worn 
of student acti 
will be coord 
Browns office.
The school 
ering for this 
of candidates, 
contacts withf o 
Jftidemic plaaem 
faculty and jad 
gestions.
Goo d!
Council certainly.id dec!Dorm 
to this
was
Und eflT g radw^t^in E 
PM, and to en^*1
ter the wStnial H&SS contest 
for essaw Tconimulu 
government problems, 
jgjjminary entries 
in mid-Febru 
The comin 
opportunity d?Top an 
or siit^tan^K e v i d
witli pfriM^ifct 
over wilU-w Jnad
Sp*4n^ Carnivjffl jfc^lrtlier in
formation cajji be 0btaipj{ at 
the Ilistor/^ortio+AA.H. 132- 
A)."Primitive" Tarquans?
A scene from the Tarquans Water Ballet
By Phil Jai
The Billy May Orchestra will be^feklur^ ^\j/We Council 
of Fraternity Presidents Formal Satiurd^^\ren^m!> January 
10, which will be held from 9:0Qto raa ft? Hie SjAia Mosque.
Few suspected when Billy jVh^stemed hi^yCareer in an 
East Liberty bar, that within tw0ty ^earrs he-afcpuld become
the conwkor Qi$ ffrst class dance
Pre-payment 
To Save Ti
To help reduce th 
time spent by ^BdejjCs 
registration area, tfie plan ftfr pre
payment of fees will be in effert 
for the Spring Semester 1958- 
All students may participate in^he 
plan except students in tb fol-, 
lowing categories: kj
1. Students who wjtf be (jairr 
ing 24 units .o,
2. Junior wd Sdwi^wPAinfing
anyn^ne dUring the period 
of JahuaryS^hroirSh January 28, 
student^ may rstop aj U*e Regis
trars QTffice /fnd maJ^Afleir paymenjir However, it Xuisy cp under
od thgj^ for d(^rainry students, 
mitory ^iust be paid at 
e same tii
t also be understood
ai alJ^xu3eT|ts, whether partimust appear at 
'n area the same as 
implete schedules and 
irms, but the stuints who have prepaid their fees 
will not be required to go to the 
Womens Gym where the Cashier 
will be set up.
Carter To Be 
Next Speaker
In conjunction with George 
Washington Carver Week, W. Bev
erly Carter, Publisher of the 1 
Pittsburgh Courier, will speak j 
at the Tech all-school assembly I 
Tuesday, January 13. 1959, on
The Role of Negro Press in a ! 
Changing Society  an Historical | 
Analysis. The assembly will be 
held at 11:30 a.m. in the Fine 
Arts Theatre.
A luncheon with Mr. Carter is 
scheduled for 12:30 following the 
assembly and will be held in the 
Blue Room at Morewood Gardens. ' 
Both the faculty and the student 
body are invited.
Native
Mr. Carter is a native of Penn- i 
sylvania and made his home in 
Philadelphia before taking his 
present post in Pittsburgh. There | 
he headed his own public rela
tions firm, and was formerly the 
city editor the Philadelphia AfroAmerican.
In 1954 he was the officially 
endorsed Republican candidate 
(Continued on Page 5)
Frankie Lester
Billy Mays featured vocalist
The star of the program, Frankie 
Lester, has appeared in the past 
with Tommy Dorsey and Buddy 
Morrow as well as Billy May and 
has established his own reputation 
as a RCA soloist.
Frankies first love is singing for 
dance bands; he gave up his profit
able recording career to assume 
his present position with Billy 
May.
An intermission program is bein planned to add to the even
ings entertainment.
Candlelight Service 
W ill Fake Place 
In Heinz Chapel
All Carnegie Tech and Pitt stu
dents and faculty will have a 
chance to attend the annual Can
dlelight service this evening at 11 
p.m. at* Heinz Chapel on the Pitt 
campus.
Among the interesting parts to 
the service will be the singing of 
three selections by the Sigma 
Iota choir. This fine chorus, which 
is accompanied on the organ by 
Cassie Niedjialek, will be directed 
by Barbara Shannon. There will 
also be two readers at the service; 
Margie Snodgrass and Fred Rob
erts.
As this affair is traditionally 
well attended, it is suggested that 
those wishing good seats get there 
before 11 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

T*ee 2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, December 17, 195*
CoJ Of D,le Week
Shontz
Elaine Baunhuber
Sophomore Painting and Deesign Major
Entry Blank
1 Coed of the Week Contest i
2 Name .....................................................................................i
Address .................................................................................
i* Phone ...................................................................................i
Submitted by .......................................................................
I-________________________________________________
100% Participation 
Is Chest Goal
By Mike Brunt
Campus Chest is looking for-1 
ward to 1009c participation of the' 
students and faculty in their an
nual two-week drive.
This year the drive will be from 
February 23 to March 6. Last night1 
Campus Chest held their organi
zational meeting to plan their j 
campaign to attain their goal of 
100% participation.
Allocation
The total contribution are allo
cated to several different worthy 
organizations. A large portion of 
the total funds collected goes to 
some worthy American or foreign 
students who need financial help. 
Campus Chest also organizes a 
special Tech project each year. 
This year it is a scholarship to 
sbome deserving student.
Another portion of- the contri
butions is allocated to the Greater 
Pittsburgh United Fund. The grad \ 
students this year arc operating 
a Korean Orphans Fund , and 
Campus Chest is also donating a 
portion of its total contributions j 
to this fund. 
Eta Kappa Nu 
Holds Banquet
The annual joint Eta Kappa Nu 
and American Institute of Electri
cal Engireers winter banquet was 
held Thursday, December 11, at 
6:30.
Eta Kappa Nu initiated eight | 
pledges into the ranks of the elec
trical engineering honorary. The 
pledge project of building oscil
loscopes for the iepartment was 
successfully completed and Don 
Scharfetter and Robert Durgin 
won five dollar awards for the 
best built models.
Mr. Dankehaus of Bell Tele
phone labs spoke of the future of 
telephone communications. He de
scribed the new direct distance 
dialing system and also the many 
applications of transistors in 
modern communications
WF Dedicates 
New Center
By Betsy Moss
I A question mark, a candle, and 
an arrow were the three symbols 
' that Dr. Charles Spott^used in his 
presentation at the Westminster 
Foundation dedication service on 
December 9.
The center was dedicated in the  
special service which followed 
Dr. Spotts talk. The program was 
opened by Reverend L. J. Zezash, 
j Tech WF pastor, and led by the 
Reverend Arnold Nakajima, East
ern field secretary for the United 
Presbyterian education board.
Dr. Spotts, chairman of the de
partment of religion at Franklin 
& Marshall College, explained his 
symbols: the center should be a 
place where all students can raise 
vital questions; it should also be 
a guiding lighta candle * that 
shows the way; and thirdly, it can 
act as a signpost directing students 
to find answers.
Special Guests
Miss Ruth Shinn, Tech religious 
coordinator, Reverend Vincent 
Stratton, Pitt WF University Pas
tor, and Pitt and Tech presidents 
gave opening words of greeting. 
Other special guests were Richard 
Batchelder, religious coordinator, 
Reverend Scott Morton, Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church pastor, and 
Mrs. Stratton.
The student center has been 
open daily from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
since September for student use. 
A weekly dinner and program are 
held on Tuesday evening from 
5:15 to 7:00. Speakers are drawn 
from local churches, social action 
groups and faculty. World reli
gions, social problems, and per
sonal faith are the three themes 
that the program is following this 
year.
The center, consisting of two 
meeting rooms, a lounge, kitchen, 
and Reverend Zezashs office, is on 
the first floor of the newly reno| vated building at 5220 Forbes Ave.
CIT Active 
In Art Exhibit
Seven of the eleven Western 
Pennsylvanians invited to exhibit 
in the Pittsburgh Bicentennial In
ternational Exhibition have CIT 
affiliation.
Mssrs. George M. Koren, Sam
uel Rosenberg, and Russell Twiggs 
attended Tech and are members 
of the Fine Arts staff.
In addition, Mssrs. Richard B. 
Beaman, Balcomb Greene, and 
Roger Anliker, who are exhibit
ing their work at the Art Show, 
are present members of the Fine 
Arts staff.
Virgil Cantini, a graduate of the 
College of Fine Arts, is also tak
ing part in the exhibition. Mr. 
Cantini is a free-lancer and is on 
the art staff of Pitt.
Christmas Spirit 
Conies To Tech
By Georgia White
Contributing a holiday spirit to 
Techs campus, yesterdays tradi
tional Christmas Chapel Service 
featured yuletime music, and a 
reading of the Christmas story.
The program opened with a 
brass ensembles medley of Christ
mas chorales directed by George 
Reynolds and Variations on an 
Ancient Christmas Carol by or
ganist George Bentel. It continued 
with Adeste Fideles and O 
Little Town of Bethlehem. 
Nativity Read
Alan Lindgren then read the 
Nativity from St. Luke, followed 
by a prayer by the .Reverend Hugh 
Clark, It Came Upon the Midnight 
Clear and Joy to the World.
Other high spots in the service 
included Cameron Choirs rendi
tion of Silver Bells under the 
direction of Richard Camp, and the 
Wassail Song sung by the de
partment of music chorus led by 
studenjt director Robert Hamilton.
President J. C. Warner made the 
concluding remarks. The service 
ended with Silent Night.
iDr. Ramsey of CIT 
! Studying Problems 
Of Management
Members of the Heppenstall 
Management Club, an affiliate of 
the National Management Asso
ciation have just completed a sem
inar in general psychology pre
pared especially for persons in in
dustry and business by Dr. Robert 
S. Ramsay of CIT.
The course was divided into 
four phases. The initial phase pro
vided the background for general 
and theoretical psychology to the 
participants which included per
sons from various levels of man
agement and supervision.
Second Phase
The second phase dealt with the 
conditions surrounding motivation, 
frustration and conflict. An under
standing of these is central to an 
approach to the many psycholog
ical problems encountered daily 
by persons in supervisory posi
tions.
Next, the basic principles in
volved in learning and training 
were stressed. Since all supervis
ory and management personnel 
are involved, directly or indirectly 
in sojne phase of training, this seg
ment of the course found wide ap
plication.
Survey
Finally, a survey of industrial 
applications of psychology was un
dertaken. Here the principles of 
the first three stages were applied 
to common problems. Here the 
theoretical techniques were ap
plied, and the principles became 
tools in problem solving.
Dr. Ramsay, assistant director of 
evening classes at Carnegie Tech, 
has been actively involved with 
Pittsburgh industry for the past 
three years.
Pershing Rifles 
Held Informal 
Pledge Initiation
By Charles Garda
The Pershing Rifles company of 
Carnegie Tech held an informal 
initiation for its pledges on De
cember 5, 6, and 7 at a camp near 
Portersville, Pa., 40 miles north of 
Pittsburgh.
At this camp, which was run in 
cooperation with the Pershing 
Rifles unit at Pitt, the pledges
^ .
received specialized military traini 1 
ing and engaged in practical field 
exercises which vested their lead
ership ability and military skills.
Cold
In spite of sut>-zero tempera
tures, the pledges stood a continu
ous guard mount around the camp 
in addition to their other duties. 
The fine cooperation among thp 
officers as they pooled the ri$y 
sources of the two companies led 
to the'success of the weekend. This 
joint event is sure to be repeated 
in the future.
On CamposwithMaxShuJman
(By the Author of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
"Barefoot Boy with Cheek")
THE GIFT HORSE
I know how busy you arestudying, going to class, catching 
night crawlersbut let me interrupt your multifarious activi
tiesstudying, going to class, helping old grads find their 
dentures after Homecomingto remind you that busy as you 
arestudying, going to class, searching for meat in the dormi
tory stewtime and tide wait for no man, and the Yuletide will 
soon be upon us. Busy or not, we must turn our thoughts to 
Christmas shopping. Let us, therefore, pause for a moment m 
our busy schedulesstudying, going to class, rolling drunks 
to examine a number of interesting gift suggestions.
We will start with the hardest gift problem of all: What do 
you give to the person who has everything? Well sir, there fol
lows a list of a half dozen gifts which I will flatly guarantee the 
person who has everything does not have:
1. A dentists chair.
2. A low hurdle.
3. A street map of Perth.
4. Fifty pounds of chicken fat.
5. A carton of filter-tip Marlboros.
6. A carton of non-filter Philip Morris.
WhatV you exclaim, your young eyebrows rising in wild 
incredulity. The person who has everything does not have 
cartons of filter Marlboros and non-filter Philip Morris? you 
shriek, your young lips curling mockingly. What arrant non
sense ! you rasp, making a coarse gesture.
And I reply with an emphatic no! The person who has every
thing does not have filter ftfarlboros and non-filter Philip Morris 
not for long anyhowbecause if he has Marlboros and Philip 
Morris and if he is a person who likes a mild, mellow, fresh, 
flavorful cigaretteand who does not? eh? who does not? 
why, then he doesnt have Marlboros and Philip Morris; he 
smote# them. He might possibly have a large collection of 
Marlboro and Philip Morris butts, but whole Marlboros and 
Philip Morris? No. An emphatic no!
Now we take up another thorny gift problem: What do you 
buy your girl if you are broke? Quite a challenge, you will agree, 
but there is an answeran ingenious, exciting answer! Surprise 
your girl with a beautiful bronze head of herself)
Oh, I know youre not a sculptor, but that doesnt matter. All 
you have to do is endear yourself to your girls roommate, so 
she will be willing to do you a favor. Then some night when 
your girl is fast asleep^have the roommate butt your girls 
facequietly, so as not to wake herand then quietly pour 
plaster of Paris on top of the butter and then quietly wait till it 
hardens and quietly lift it offthe butter will keep it from 
stickingand then bring you the mold, and you will pour bronze 
in it and make a beautiful bust to surprise your girl with!
Remember, it is importantvery importantto endear your
self to the roommate, because if anything should go wrong, 
you dont want to be without a girl for the holiday season.
> l.Vt Mu fUuilMM
Your gift problem is no problem if you will give Marlboros 
to your fitter smoking friends and Philip Morris to your nonfilter smoking friend*. Both come in oft pack or flip-top 
box; both are made by the sponsor of this column.


---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 17, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
REALLY SOMETHING TO WRITE HOME ABOUT 
...FOR CHRISTMAS
REMINGTONRoiaa-ac
ouy Qjunemeaaow**** .........
Desparete" Seeks Advice
Professor Burns 
Speaks At Tech 
Tuesday Assembly
tionist in foregn policy.
Professor Burns predicted the 
shape of our national politics in 
the next two years. The Republi
can party will not be exterminated, 
he said, despite the funeral ser
mons that are preached over any 
party that suffers major reversals 
at the polls.
Senator John F. Kennedy, he 
said, has an excellent chance for 
the Democratic presidential nomi
nation, with Senator Lyndon 
Johnson as the vice-presidential 
candidate. Professor Burns said 
that although Governor Nelson 
Rockefeller seemed to possess the 
qualifications for the Republican 
presidential nominee, Vice-presi
dent Richard Nixon would prob
ably receive the nomination be
cause of his closer affiliation with 
the presidential Republicans.
In his second lecture as well as 
in an interview, Professor Burns 
discussed the previously mention
ed fourth political episode. This 
happening, he said, will be the 
drawing together of the presiden
tial and congressional wings in 
each party.
This comes as a result of the 
social and economic forces which 
are rubbing off the sharp comers 
! of our sectional and group and 
idealogical differences. Each state 
and congressional district has be
come, in effect, a tiny composit of 
the social and economic and poli
tical make-up of the nation as a 
whole.*
Subliminal Advertising?
Something in Common
Shows so far have been bowling 
. pins, ducks in a shooting gallery, 
f A bar with empty drinks, and a 
Peanuts cartoon with knockedover cards. All these pictures have 
one thing in commonguess this 
and youll know the name of the 
show!
When asked about the sig
nificance of these posters, Bill 
Pence, publicity director, chuckled, 
Somehow Ive introduced sex in
to it! Is this another hidden clue?
^Pershing Rifles 
Elects Queen For 
Annual Dance
On Tuesday, December 16, the 
Pershing Rifles company of Car
negie Tech elected its queen for 
1959, the three candidates being 
Miss Beverly Patton, Miss Mar| garet Snodgrass, and Miss Lana 
^ubasak.
The identity of the queen will 
not be disclosed until February 21, 
the night of the annual Pershing 
Rifles Dance, at which time the 
present Honorary Company Com
mander, Miss Denise Getsie, will 
give up her crown to her successor. 
Admission to the dance will be 
$1.00 per couple.
Dear Polly,
Im just a freshman here at Tech 
and its not that Im unpopular 
^pause I date quite a bit. How
ever I never date one boy more 
than once because they never ask 
me out again since I dont ever 
have much to say. Frankly Im 
afraid of them.
When I was in high school I 
wasnt popular at all and here in 
college Im getting all this atten
tion since really Im not that un
attractive. At least people say Im 
'rot. Regardless I dont know how 
to cope with the situation espec
ially since Ive met this boy for 
whom I care quite a bit.
Hes a good looking upperclass
man whom Ive dated more than 
once, about four times. And I think 
he likes me a little or he wouldnt 
have bothered after the first date. 
But I feel so strange not knowing 
what to say when Im with him. 
[ r^ranted I cant just sit around 
^id look innocent. I feel like dig
ging a tunnel under the ground. 
What should I do?
Desperate
By Leila Moore
James Burns, professor of poli
tical science at Williams College in 
Massachusetts, spoke at the 
school assembly last Tuesday, De
cember 9, and again on Thursday 
afternoon, December 11, in 
GSIA auditorium on the 
American Politics in the 1960s.
Professor Burns was 
speaker in the series of 
Falk Lectures on Public Affairs. 
In his talk last Tuesday,
BUrns suggested that there 
been three happenings in I 
icas political history which left 
an impression on contemporary 
politics, and that a fourth such 
episode would occur in the 1960s. 
He also advanced an hypothesis 
about the American political party 
systems.
Four Parties
There are, according to the 
speaker, four political parties at 
the national level instead of two. 
They are the presidential Repub
licans and Democrats, and the con
gressional Republicans and Demo
crats.
The Presidential Republicans 
were described as middle-of-theroad on domestic policy and gen
erally internationalist on foreign
policy, being supported by busi
ness and suburban groups.
The Presidential Democrats, 
basing their platform on the New 
Deal and the Fair Deal, have, he 
said, gained the support of or
ganized labor, Catholics, Negroes, 
and other groups in urban states. 
Congressional Democratic 
in the opinion of ProfessorDear Desperate,
If the boy whom you mention
ed hes been dating you quite fre
quently, it sounds as though hed 
like you to stay as you are. But 
if you feel that hell soon lose in
terest because you are quiet, then 
my advice would be not to begin 
talking incessantly about nothing, 
but to find out what interests you 
and he have in common and dis
cuss these.
If you dont seem to have any 
interests in common, try to dis
cover what hes especially inter
ested in, and ask him about these. 
If you draw him out in this way, 
hell do the entertaining. Often 
being a good listener is more bene
ficial than being a good conversa
tionalist.
Dont dig a tunnel under the 
ground.
Polly
(Editors note: The Tartan coun
sellor Polly Junemeadow wel
comes all sincere inquiries re
garding any personal student pro
blems. Write her today if some 
problem is on your mind.)
Laval
Or. James Burns
Maurice Falk Lecturer
Burns, tends to respond to the at
titudes and interests found in 
Southern and border states.
Fourth Party 
The fourth party, the Congres
sional Republicans, strong in the 
Midwest and in northeastern and 
western farm areas, is conserva
tive in domestic policy and isolaOdd Posters 
Clues To S n S
[' By Arlene Logioco
 Have you noticed the strangelooking signs posted all over the 
campus? Have you wondered what 
they mean?
Believe it or not, the Scotch n 
Soda Club has devised these in
genious posters to serve you! 
Theyre clues to the name of the 
59 production. Although the title 
wont be released until after 
Christmas vacation, you can easily 
\^iess it if you think about the 
Significance of the things repre
sented on these brain-teasers.
Hint for a Remington, ask for a Remington. 
If it gets really desperate, buy a Remington 
yourself (its worth it!). Its the smoothest 
electric shaver around!
REMINGTON ROLLECTRIC FOR MEN
A real man wants, and needs, a real mans shaver... 
a wan-sized Rollectric! Six diamond-honed cutters 
... largest live shaving area of all! Exclusive Roller 
Combs roll skin down, comb whiskers up to get your 
Heavy Beard and Hidden Beard: whisker bases below 
ordinary shaving level. You get close, fast, comfort
able shaves that last hours longer! 1I0V, AC-DC.
REMINGTON PRINCESS FOR WOMEN
Gentle, feminine shaver. Petite, yet with four times 
as much live shaving area as any other ladies shav
ing implement. Exclusive Guard Combs make it so 
safe it cant chafe; you can shave back and forth 
no need to worry about which side to use for legs or 
underarms. You can apply a deodorant immediately. 
Three chic colors: Ivory, Pink, or Blue. AC wily.
PR00UCT8 Of am&Mrtot. IZnwi CltxJric lwcr;CARANAEG OF NISTTU TOGE FETIETOLAEGY 3TA0MSI0TL 2H FEGGH

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, December 17, 1958
LITTLE MAN ON* CAMPUS
ll UNQ6R6TANP TH' DEAN HAD HIM $U<6PENPEP FOR TH R6T OF TH' TRM."
Editorials
Dean Of MenToo Late?
The front-page story in todays Tartan 
headed Carnegie Tech to have' new Dean 
of Men announces that a Dean of Men will 
be added to the C1T staff as of September 
3, 1959. The story goes on to explain that the 
Administration had originally planned to 
wait until the new student activities center 
is completed before hiring a Dean of Men 
but that after consideration, the Administra
tion feels that a Dean of Men could gain val
uable experience between September and
the time that the new union is finished. The
Tartan asks why consider waiting until a 
new activities center is added to the campus?
The Tartan wonders on what basis the 
Administration has decided that the need 
for a Dean of Men has been lacking at Tech.
Without a Dean of Men there is no one in 
official capacity whose job it is just to hear 
student grievances, suggestions, or inquiries.
Perhaps the Administration has gone on the 
assumption that male students adjust more
readily than their female equivalent. The___________,^
Dean of Womens Office handles many, varied problems in- > . _
eluding disciplinary cases, questions on sororities, situations ^Vf3S011.t00 JAlll0 
where students cannot adjust to college life, and scholastic j
problems, just to name a few. Does the Administration think iLllIOrCGu.
that these situations do not exist among male students?
The Tartan lauds the Administrations decision to em- At the Student Congress com-mittee heads meeting on Wednes-ploy a Dean of Men. But it must, in tiie same breath, add the day, December 10, the absentee
old Its about time! ru^e Congress was discussed.
a  g The rule is as follows: If a Stu
dent Congress representative 
misses two consecutive meetings 
or a total of three meetings dur
ing his term of office, he shall 
lose his membership in Congress, 
and the faction who he repreliams College, visited Techs campus last week for almost sents shall no longer have a deleo  ,i i gate. The representatives alter-four days, opening the Maurice Falk Lecture Series with two na^es should substitute for the
speeches and speaking with the facultv, administration, stu- members, when they are unable
r * attend.dents. Dr. Burns schedule allowed two hours Thursday Truants
morning and two Friday morning for informal discussions The organizations which have  J representation in Congress andwith studentsany students, regardless of year or depart- whose representatives have missed
ment, who cared to just drop in without appointment and two consecutive or a total of three ,  ; Congress meetings since SeptemC*13*- ber are bioligical science, Delta
Several more social studies authorities will visit Tech in Tau Delta, Phi Kappa, Tau Delta
the coming months as Maurice Falk Lecturers. It is certain phl\ electri^al eTVinfeni1^,n3Tj**
 . matics, metallurgical engineering,that the visitors to come will be, like Dr. Burns, highly com- painting and design.
petent representatives of their fields. It is expected that each The committee heads decided
of these speakers will be able to devote time to conferences that ^ey WOUld Sive these or^ gamzations one week in whichwith students, as Dr. Burns did. If this be the case, the Tartan they will be allowed to appeal 
hopes that Tech students will take advantage of this unusual these absences. After this time, 
opportunity to meet and talk personally with these distin- ^n^rSgP l0Se their Vte in 
guished gueststo learn from the visitors and at the same 
time to welcome them to Tech. C.E.S.
Did You Meet Dr. Burns?
Dr. James Burns, professor of political science at WilCARNEGIE
TARTAN
FOTGSMAS AGNLALWLS EB LSF.GEEMU
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. Office phone, MU 2-4557; Co-Editors EM 1-7157 and MU 2-9053; 
Advertising Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school 
year except holidays and examination periods by the students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Co-Editor .............................................................................................................................. Carol Sooby
Co-Editor ........................................................................................................................ Richard Wiley
Associate Editor ................................................................................................................... David Dull
Business Manager ...................................................................................................... Michael Bass
New* Editor ..........................................................................................................................
Sports Editor .................................................................................................................. George Paris
Copy Editor ................................................................................................................... Jerry Sullivan
Assistant News Editor  Jan Notopoulos, Feature Editor  Lex 
Baker, Photography EditorAlan GickVer, Assistant Business Mana
gerLee Adlesberg, Advertising Manager"Mike Balsam; Assistant 
Advertising ManagerMiles Hollander; SecretaryRena Siegal, Cir
culation ManagerGary Brandenburger, Assistant Sports EditorEd 
Blum, TransportationGene Rietzke.
In the future, representatives 
will be given one week after the 
absence from meeting in which 
they may have their absence ex
cused.
Cotieg iute
C^uturai
(^ufendi
News Staff  Mike Brunt, Dori Cline, Linda Friedlob, Sally 
Ganong, Paul Hess, Phil James, Beth Liden, Arlene Logioco, Bill 
Mohney, Betsy Moss, Bob Nowak, Terrie Rudy, Carolyn Saxton, Ira 
Shapiro, Georgia White, Lois Wolfe.
Sports Staff  Dick Hamilton, Pete Pence, Stan Zionts, Mike 
Beaman, Chuck Vodrarka.
Copy StaffFrank Baloti, Spence Anderson, Becky Krauss, Janis 
Geisler, Roger Fager, Doug Murray.
Circulation StaffJim Phillips, Larry Dominik.
Second class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented lot national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
ur
by Barb Jones
The Pittsburgh Opera is pre
senting Amahl and the Night 
Visitors, featuring the Colum
bus Boy Choir, on December 19, 
8:00 p.m. at the Carnegie Music 
Hall. Hearing the choirs rendi
tion of this beautiful, classic 
Christmas tale should be a worth
while evening for those of you 
who will be in Pittsburgh Friday 
night.
Music
Even the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra has adopted a bit of 
Christmas spirit, for they are of
fering suggestions ' for Christmas 
gifts, to those of you who dont 
know what to buy for that friend 
who loves music. They are sug
gesting that you buy that friend 
a set of Beethoven Cycle tickets 
for Christmas. These tickets are 
moderately priced: $6 for Friday 
evening concerts: Artur Rubin
stein, Zino Francescatti, Rudolph 
Serkin, Anton Kuerti, and the
Christmas Story
It would seem sensible at this festival 
season that we renew our acquaintance with 
story of the nativity of Jesus, which is the 
peculiar contribution of our Christian tradi
tion to the historic winter solstice celebra
tions. The tale is here printed as told by St. 
Jerome in the fifth century of the Christiif^ 
era.
Blenheim
Exiit edictum a Caesare Augusto, ut describeretur universus orbis. Haec descriptio 
prima facta est a praeside Syriae Cyrino: et 
ibant.omnes ut profiterentur singuli in suam 
civitatem. Ascendit autem et Joseph a Galilaea de civitate Nazareth, in Judaeam in civitatem DavicL 
quae vocatur Bethelehem: eo quod esset de domo et fami$$i 
David, ut profiretur cum Maria desponsata sibi uxore praegnante. Factum est autem, cum essent ibi, implenti sunt dies 
ut pareret. Et peperit fifium suum primogenitum; et pannis 
eum involvit, et reclinavit eum in praesepio: quia non erat 
eis locus in diversorio.
Et pastores erant in regione eadem vigilantes, et custodientes vigilias noctis super gregum suum. Et ecce Angelus 
Domini stetit juxta illos, et claritas Dei cimcumfulsit illos, e
timuerunt timore magno. Et dixit illis Angelus: Nolite time
ecce enim evangelizo vobis gaudium magnum, quod erit omni I 
populo: quia natus est vobis hodie Salvator, qui est Christmas I 
Dominus, in civitate David. Et hoc vobis signum: Invenietis j 
infantem pannis involutum, et positum in proesepio. Et j 
sbito facta est cum Angelo multitudo militiae caelestis, I 
laudantium Deum, et dicentium:
Gloria in altissimis Deo, et in terra pax hominibus bonae I 
voluntatis. ,____________________________ __ |||
j Readers Write... |
The ot-So-Great Scot j
Editor, The Tartan:
I have recently discovered that the Scot, supposedljijlfl 
campus humor magazine, has incurred a debt of the 
astounding amount of over $5000. This debt was paid off by 
the administration. After glancing through this cheap, filthy 
magazine, I find myself absolutely incredulous that the ad?ministration can sanction such a I 
disgrace and flagrant waste of I 
money. This money represents the I 
hard-earned money of several I 
thousand students.  {I
Other Uses T
This money could have sup
ported an entire family for a 
year, or, invested in a worthwhile 
agency, could have provided for 
untold benefits for the destitute 
and poor.
It must be obvious to anyone 
that the school can ill .afford such 
an expense, and yet the Scot is |
Blenheim
Mssrs. Blenheim
I have read your many insults 
leveled at various institutions on 
campus, but your reference to 
Sigmund Freud (i.e. Popularity 
12/10) truly shows your simpleminded ignorance.
Where does Freud say that man 
is a selfish animal with no true 
capacity for empathy? If you wish, 
Messrs. Blenheim, I will send you 
a list of Freuds Books; it might 
help if you read them.
Lastly and most important sirs, 
no matter what your opinions of 
Freuds c<5htentions may be ... at 
least he signed his works.
J. N. Twail 
Drama, 1960
concert version of Fidelio, 
which are scheduled throughout 
the rest of the season.
Art
There is a showing of the work 
of the new members of the Asso
ciated Artists of Pittsburgh at the 
Arts and Crafts  Center through 
December 30.
The Pittsburgh Bicentennial In
ternational Exhibition will be at 
the Carnegie Institute until Feb
ruary 8.
allowed to continue to exist, riij^* 
ning up another debt.
Outrage
The contents of the magazine 
must be an outrage to every true 
Christian and Jew on the campus.
I find it impossible to believe that 
in a school of the integrity, cali
ber, and reputation of Carnegie, 
intelligent students should pub
lish a magazine devoted to the 
worship of sin and depravity. i 
I sincerely believe that the rrtLi^ | 
jority of students will join me in 
my protest against this shameful 
publication and against the ad- | 
ministrations apparent approval 
or apathy on this matter.
Sincerely,
Charles Needham 
Chemistry, 1959

---------------------------------------------------

Mrs. Santa Claus gave each boy 
from Turner Institute a gift.
The festivities of the day con
tinued with everyone singing 
Christmas carols and everyone, 
dorm residents too, playing with 
the boys Christmas gifts.
freshmen a basis on which to 
choose the committee they would 
like to serve on, each of the thir
teen standing committees pre
sented a brief report designed to 
summarize the committees activ
ities over the school year.Prom-perfect 
or for 
any date
Its easy to see why Arrow White 
Shirts are the most popular on 
campus. Authentic in every style 
detail, theyre the best-fitting 
shirts in circulation today.
Our exclusive Mitoga-tailoring 
makes them that way from collar 
to cuff to waist. Sanforized fab
rics keep their fit and the wildest 
bop wont pop their anchored but
tons. $4.00 up.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
Weekends and the holidays ||| 
are so much more fun in ||| 
New York if you stop at  
The Biltmore, traditional favorite * ' 
on every campus in the 
i country! Economical, too.
Write to our College Department 
for special student and faculty 
rates and reservations.
ARROWfirst in fashion/ Madison Avenue ot 43rd St., N. Y. 17, N. Y.
AT GRAND CENTRAL STATION
Other REALTY HOTELSThe Barclay & Park Lane* Harry M. Anholt, President
THEY SAID IT COULDNT BE DONE - BUT TODAYS L&M GIVES YOU
Four field goals in one game 
by a man whod never kicked 
one before! Bobby Conrad 
himself said, I never kicked 
a field goal in high school or 
college. In fact, I never even 
tried. But the amazing Texas 
A&M back broke two All Star 
records by booting four threepointers, including one for 44 
yards, as the 1958 college 
stars upset the Detroit Lions, 
35 to 19. Conrad is now a 
Chicago Cardinal.
DON'T SETTLE FOR ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER!
Change to LiM and get em both. Such an improved filter and more taste! Better 
taste than in any other cigarette. Yes, todays L*M combines these two essentials 
of modern smoking enjoyment-less tars and more taste-in one great cigarette.
UGGITT
Light into that Live Modern flavor!
Pf#68 am&rr t oZ&nw Lilcci FiH
Wednesday, December 17, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
Dorm Party
[Continued from page 2] 
jed by Mrs. Santa Claus and three 
of Santas helpers.
Drill Team
The drill team of the institute 
then entertained their hosts with a 
series of intricate drill routines.
After entertainment by the boys, 
the party was taken downstairsf
'here everyone was given candy, 
j^idwiches, cake and soft drinks. 
Following this, Santa Claus and
Student Congress 
Makes Freshmen 
Committee Aides
By Dick Aust
At the November 19 meeting of 
Student Congress, one of the best 
attended meetings of this year, a 
new program involving freshmen 
committee apprentices was launch
ed.
To give the fifty attending
Assembly
[continued from p&ge 2] 
for the United States Congress 
from the Pennsylvania Fourth 
District.
Africa and Europe 
Just prior to assuming his du
ties at the Courier, Mr. Carter 
returned from an 18,000 mile trip 
to West Africa and Europe. While 
in West Africa* he visited the new
ly formed nation of Ghana, as well
as Nigeria, Liberia, Senegal and 
French West Africa. Mr. Carter 
has visited the African continent 
four times.
He is a graduate of Lincoln Uni
versity in Pennsylvania, and has 
served on the Board of Trustees of 
that organization. Mr. Carter is 
also the vice president of the Na
tional Newspaper Publishers As
sociation, and a member of the 
Board of Directors of the United
Fund of Allegheny Covnty, in
addition to many other activities.
He has been a guest lecturer at 
the University of Michigans de
partment of journalism, and has 
spoken previously at Carnegie 
Tech in connection with IN STEP.
January 4 through 10, 1959 will 
be the fifteenth annual national 
observance of George Washington 
Carver Week. The mayor and 
many civic organizations will give 
their support to this program.

---------------------------------------------------

Txgt 6CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, December 17, 1958
Tech
Trounces
St. Vincent
96-77
Carnegie Tartan
F=^>
Swim
Team
Wins
First
George Paris  Sports Editor
Tartan Football Stars } 
Receive Many Honors
Carnegie Techs star tackle Earl Benner was recently 
j informed that he has been named to the All-Pennsylvania 
second team. The team is chosen by coaches and sports writ
ers in the state.
Benner performed well for Tech at the tackle
| and wa always in charge of the4--------------<-----------------------
man across the line from him. He 
led his team to a fine seasons
Tech Cagers Down 
St. Vincent 96-77
The Carnegie Tartans gave the semifilled Skibo Gym 
crowd a big show last Thursday evening as they walloped 
the St. Vincent Bearcats 96 to 77. The feature attraction of 
the evening was the amazing Tech shooting percentage hit
ting for 19 of 31 shots in the first half and 37 of 69 overall
from the floor for an outstanding^------------------------------------------------------
53.6% (a slide rule calculation).
As an added attraction, the Skibos boasted three men in the 20 
point column with Andy Komer 
leading the pack (25), followed 
closely by Bill Soffa (22) and 
Stan Skalka (20). Bud Miller, a 
strong rebounding Tech center also 
contributed 16 points to the Tartan 
cause.
Tartans Lead Early
The men of coach Mel Cratsley 
wasted no time in jumping on the 
Bearcats building up a ten point 
spread (12-2) in just the first four 
minutes. This margin never dimin
ished, and the closest that St. Vin
cent was able to get to the Tar
tans was late in the final half 
when they narrowed the lead to 
(92-75).
Pouring in buckets from all 
over, the Skibos were able to build 
up their largest lead of the first 
half with still 5 minutes remain
ing. At this time they led by 40 
to 16. Big Andy Komer led the 
way in this stanza scoring 18 
points with his deadly jump shot, 
and leading the way to a 50 to 30 
Carnegie lead at halftime.
Stronger Than Ever
The Plaids came back on the 
court after the intermission and
proved deadlier than ever as 
Hauser and Skalka dumped in two 
quickies to bring the lead to 54- 
30. From this point Skalka went 
on to hit for 14 points in the next 
ten minutes while also controlling 
the backboards.
Tech gained their largest lead 
of the evening 75 to 47 with ten 
minutes remaining in the game 
and breezed through the closing 
minutes in ever increasing acS curacy from the field and main
taining a strong defense.
No Set Shots 
An interesting note about the 
contest is that Tech did not take 
one set shot, as they worked the 
j ball in well and took several good 
jump shots from the pivot. The 
victory over the Bearcats made it 
I three in a row for Coach Cratsley 
and his team and now gives them 
a 3 and 1 record for the season.
The next home game is this 
Tuesday evening against the
strong Westminster Titans while 
the Tartans take on W&J next Fri
day evening at the Skibo gym.
Carnegie Tech
FGA. FG. FTA. FT. Rbs. PF. Pts.
Soffa 17 8 8 6 1 2 22
Hauser 9 4 4 1 4 3 9
Tech Leads Country 
In Nationwide Poll
By Bob Russell
Continuing a long-standing tradition, which was estab
lished last year, it once again becomes necessary to prove to 
the skeptics that Carnegie Tech has the best football team 
in the country, with the possible exception of Waynesburg 
High School. First of all, it is obvious that Tech should not 
have lost any games, since we*------------------------------------------------------any games, since 
beat Westminster, and Westmins- j points and our beloved Panthers 
ter beat both of our conquerors, by oniy 14.
Geneva and Indiana.
The following unbiased and 
randomly selected game scores 
clearly demonstrate that we not 
only should have been unbeaten, 
but could have defeated nearly 
every major or minor college
The complete proof follows:
Tartans 
first in 
polls.
are
the
sure to be ra 
final AP andUPI
Tech Over Pitt
Tech is equal to Gettysburg, since 
both beat Bucknell by six. Gettys
burg tied Lehigh, which tied VMI, 
which beat Villanova by 27; 
points, so we could have done the 
same. Carrying further, we see 
that we are 141 over Iowa, 173 
over Oklahoma, 216 over Au- j 
burn, 234 over LSU, and 232 over 
Army and Pitt.
Pitt, however, can derive some 
consolation from the fact" that j 
they should be playing in the i 
Rose Bowl. Big Ten doormat j 
Michigan State won only two 
games all season, beating RoseBowl-bound California by 20
Carnegie Tech ..19Bucknell ...
Victor?
Martin
.13 6
Bucknell ........., 66
Gettysburg. 14Lehigh .........140
Lehigh ............... 7VMI ................ 70
.33Villanova. 627
. 7Detroit .........07
. 14Marquette ..140
Marquette.27Col. of Pac. ..189
Col. of Pac. .... 24 California ...204
California.34Wash. State .,1420
Wash. State ...40Stanford. 634
Stanford ............22Washington.1210
Washington ....24Minnesota ...213
Minnesota. 3Northwestern74
Northwestern ..21Ohio State ... 021
Ohio State.38Iowa ..............2810
Iowa ...................20Wisconsin. 11
25
.17TCU .............17
.22Texas ...........814
Texas ................. 15Oklahoma ...141
Texas ...................20Baylor .........155
Baylor ...............12Arkansas .... 012
Arkansas .......... 13SMU .............7
SMU ...................20Ga. Tech .... 020
Ga. Tech .......... 7Auburn .........70
Auburn ............33 Miss. State.1419
Miss. State .... 6 LSU ................. 71
LSU ................... 14Mississippi .. .014
Mississippi. 19Tulane .........11
Tulane ..............14 Navy .............S
Navy ...................28Boston Univ..1414
Boston Univ. ..36West. Va. ...306
West. Virginia..14Penn State ..140
Penn State ....32Holy Cross .. 032
Holy Cross .... 14Cyracuse ...131
Syracuse .......... 16 Pitt .............3
0
Skalka 15103010420
Miller 94988216
Komer 1497711325
Mueller 11003^ 12
Huff 3100122
Cassady 1000000-------_
Totals 69 
St. Vincent
373122381796
FGA.FG.FTA.FT.Rbs.PF.Pts.
Tucker 3000010
Thomas 9144116
Folk 217316015
Petersn 176106S418
Buccelli 6000130
Graham 0000000
Belan 7411649
Eesnak 6421439
Sulliv'n 145536413
Fray 4243347--_
Totals 87292819322477
Halftime: CarnegieTech50
St.Vincent20
record of 6 wins and 2 losses and 
was also responsible for leading 
I the team comeback at the end ofI--------------------------------------
OfficialsPaul Bertha and Martin Costa.
SAE & Tri Delts 
Down ATO & Stuff 
For Co-rec Title
SAE and Tri Delts won the corecreational volleyball champion
ship by defeating ATO and Stuff 
in two games 15 to 11 and 15 to 
13.
The SAE team was sparked by 
regular volleyball stars George 
Thomas, Gerry Wright, and Bob 
Reber along with the fine serving 
of Frannie Teviotdale.
ATO and Stuff were lead by 
Buff Atkinson, Ken Wilkins, and 
Dick Luppi along with Frannie 
Bebic, Joan Cronin, and Wendy 
Steinberg.
the season.
Most Valuable Player
In addition to being named to 
the state team, Benner was voted 
most valuable player on the team 
by his teammates and was named 
to the second all-district team.
Techs hard charging guard 
Gary Yarborough was also given 
honorable mention on the all dii 
trict team for his fine all aroi 
team play and sportsmanship.
Walt Majeski, hard running and 
pass catching halfback was voted 
most valuable player on the Tar
tan team by the Curbstone 
Coaches. Walt was the most de
pendable runner in the Tech 
backfield the past season and also 
caught several clutch passes to 
keep the Tartans on the move.
Both Benner and M^ajeski 
seniors and will be leaving Wk 
Tartans with four letters apiece 
while Yarborough is a sophomore 
and will be counted on to lead the 
Tech line in seasons to come.
A Campus-to-Career Case History
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
W
I wanted a job I could grow with 
-and Ive got it
H. J ames Cornelius graduated from 
Swarthmore College in 1954 with a B.S. 
in Electrical Engineering. Hes been 
growing ever since with the Bell Tele
phone Company of Pennsylvania.
After an initial 44-week inter-departr 
mental training course, Jim was made 
Facility Engineer in charge of the fastgrowing Norristown-Pottstown area. In 
that capacity, he engineered, over half a 
million dollars worth of carrier systems 
and cable facilities between major switch
ing centers.
Today, he is one of 50 young engineers 
from the Bell Telephone Companies 
chosen to attend a special Operating 
Engineers Training Program at Bell Lab
oratories. This 19-month course of study 
 with full paydeals with advanced 
techniques and ne*r concepts in elec
tronics which signal a new era in teleph
ony. It involves both classroom theory 
and practical laboratory applications.
When Jim and his colleagues return to 
their companies, theyll review major 
engineering projects. This will assure 
the best use of equipment for current 
engineering, as well as for expected new 
developments in communications.
KI wanted a job I could grow with, 
says Jim, and Ive got it. I cant think 
of a better place than the telephone pompany for an engineering graduate to find 
a promising future.
HI*
$
Many young men like Jim Cornelius are finding re
warding careers with the Bell Telephone Companies. 
Look into opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell 
interviewer when he visits your campus. And read the 
Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
BLL
LSSI.EGS
COMPANIES
a
J

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December IT, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
Volleyball
inals Scheduled 
or This Week
by Chuck Vodvarka
Final league volleyball games 
were played last Friday night, and 
the winners and runners-up in 
each league were determined. 
^Uht teams enter into the playoily this week, with the defending 
champs, SAE A, and last years 
runner-up, ATO, among those
eight.
In the Ace League, SAE A, 
led by George Thomas, last years 
MVP, went undefeated again. 
Three other All-School players 
are holdc'vers from last years in
tramural champs. They are Bob 
Reber, Gerry Wright, and Dick
*TO, with one returning AllSchool player, spiker Tom Bieg, 
likewise, had another undefeated 
season as they bumped off all their 
opponents in the Pass League. The 
setting of Fred Garibaldi and the 
spiking of Owen Johnson help 
make the ATO squad a threat.
Tau Delti Phi had a compara
tively easy time winning the top 
spot in the Set League. Bimbo 
(*j^h and Bernie Perlmutter led 
im; Tau Delts to an undefeated 
season.
The Kappa Sigs, conquerors of 
the Spiker League, also faced 
sparce competition. However, fine 
1eam play over-shadowed the dull
ness in their schedule.
The respective runners-up in 
each league were TX A, The 
Newman Club, SAE B, and the 
Physics Grads. The Newman Club 
s the only surprise team of this 
season; consequently, they and 
SAE B are the Cinderella teams 
in the tournament.
Nevertheless, the two teams ex
pected to meet in the finals are 
SAE A and ATO.
the direction of Mike Ames of 
Sigma Nu, are nearing completion.
Fund Raising
Groups of two or three pledges 
will be pJaced on street corners 
and other locations in downtown 
Pittsburgh suggested by the Polio 
Foundation as being productive in 
fund-raising campaign. Final in
structions to pledges will be an
nounced soon by each representa
tive to the Junior Council.
CFP Formal 
Plans are underway for provid
ing entertainment at the CFP for
mal also scheduled for January 
10. Les Gelles of Theta Xi, chair
man of the entertainment for Jun
ior CFP, is working with pledges 
from various fraternities in writ
ing and directing the production.
Junior CFP To Aid 
March Of Dimes 
On January 10
The Junior Council of Frater
nity Presidents has set January 10 
as the date for its annual charity 
project, to be held this year in 
conjunction with the March of 
Dimes.
Participation in the project is 
required of all Tech fraternity 
pledges. Plans for the event, under
200-yard breaststroke  Won by Rose 
(W), 2  Feige iTt, 3  Daugherty |T). 
Time2:52.3.
400-yard freestyle relayWon by West
minster 'Seeley, Rose, Armour and Mc
Clure). Time4:06.0.
Europe For Less . . . All Student Trips
WESTERN EUROPE, SPAIN, SCANDINAVIA
15 Countries, 71 Days, $995 All-Expense
SPANISH (Emphasis) TRIP 
12 Countries, 58 days, $1095 All-Expense
SCANDINAVIAN (Emphasis) TRIP 
15 Countries, 69 Days, $1245 All-Expense
Travel in small groups with friends and other U. S. college students. Trips filling fast . . . register now! For complete FREE 
information on other student travel bargains write today to: 
AMERICAN YOUTH ABROAD, 221 Commonwealth BMg. 
2010 East 102, Cleveland 6, Ohio
Students! 10% Discount
SHIRTS - DRY CLEANING
BEAUTIFULLY FINISHED
4415 Centre Ave. \HOUR / . MU 3
Owned and Operated by Stan FriedmanCollege 50 
10% DISCOUNT WITH STUDENT ID CARD
CLOWN WHO BLOWS FUNNY SMOKE RINGS
Thinklish translation: In three-ring circles, this fellows known as Mr. 
Funnyman (largely because his name is Horace P. Funnyman). When he 
does his smoke-ring act, the tents in stitches. Naturally, this world-famous 
puffoon chooses Lucky Strike. I like the honest taste, he says. A canvass 
(or tent poll) of the Big Top shows that this is no freak sentiment.
Junior Year
New York
An unusual one-year 
college programNOISY INSECTFOOTBALL PLAYER
 Write for 
I brochure to:
 Dean F. H. McCloskey 
g Washington Square 
College 
f Hew York University 
i New York 3, N.Y,
Thinklish: CLATTERPILLAR
WILLIAM ERNST. VALPARAISO
English: MAOGL RODENT
TWnklisH, 6NORMOUSE 
STROTHtR- 'HlCHiGAN STM,'tUCKYl
STRIKE!
SPEAK THINKLISH! MAKE *25
Just put two words together to form a new 
one. Thinklish is so easy youll think of dozens 
of new words in seconds! Well pay $25 each 
for the hundreds of Thinklish words judged 
bestand well feature many in our college 
ads. Send your Thinklish words (with English 
translations) to Lucky Strike, Box 67A, Mt. 
Vernon, N. Y. Enclose your name, address, 
college or university and class.
"When the student body sits 
in class all day, getting numb 
at both ends, be crazy like 
a fox. Keep on your toes vith 
NoDo*. Be alert for late-hour 
studying and hep on late 
dates. Safe as coffee and much 
more convenient.
OSSTRAL1AN
tlNSTE'N.W-0*1ThinklisfclCHt*ONO
RAOVJU
+Not* hi Prcxy. NoDvz will ^Si herp your JftuUm oUrt.too.

---------------------------------------------------

Pis SCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, December 17, 1*5
lyBlake Bernin
lu can enjojfa^eraNow 
sound!? 
Throug 
and ye
ihonic
se!
RCT
Techs|cfcMraa department will present BertMd, 
epic drama, gme^ijLicasian Chalk Circle, a^rtlf i 
ductiony l\ ^ill ppen|Friday, January 9, arffa jIuK 
19tl^J0oor^pf tJbe Lijtle Theater in the^Tme Arts 
^aTpDpen^^ft jm) ?"'/}{, 7^-------------
. Dir^ptffig the $2, casn member^ PaiJ^^l^fjrd, *Walter, S1
Sf ^fhis action/^sdfittl' plf^v-isi GMtkm Smith, I
Lfe\fcrenee Cara/ ChaHes Hai\mer fefc Y*4tion Jerry Mi<
will assist hirrf. Jojin Wal*ott/2b TjISw T. v. \ I , v  jcSSSr,iaBe Su;nauer, Istage manager'Und -desigiyiV ^rP-n^yM FSjb _
Don Bemoan, sqt, anH AlaTi ATU1v i  a A . JSvwCarthy, MarilynKiel, custyme. OJuginal nptuSuc fet-'V.  , T ,ftC Peggy Hughes, Janet
/vLFrancesca Reed, Gay 
\ \ \ janet Youn^- 
/Th# s/onpys/yased upon |olo- Ticket wiU be availa 
m*rfvs fam^a^^deten^S^tioiOtOf Fine^w(TS^gmce after
WI1CT has received tKe coopBR; 
ationiof KDiKA-FM fc^Tl Wo^ 
cast if the^ylBj^igraTn'^iig 'feoiB 
nine ap ten jxm. each \Sao^r|ray. 
starting December fc~y Since 
KDKA-AM .-is -broadca^inr^g 
part of a stereo prograip at the
ama
Worli
The judge i^aws/a chalycircle 
in the mid<tti^$^fi& couir room 
floor and nge- \Jfie ck,il<3 in th 
c^fl^er. He Lf*V fthe p/omeiy'^to 
/aclp take an arik ana pullyTOie 
'onei who gets the cHild out^>f Xhe 
circup y^fag^*ulll,Tllo^eryific teajgooS Jfhat blood is tnitfkejr than 
witef. However, GrktstOfs |ove for 
thc^lhild is too great., 3h*4 she reSlSeJ1 to ?edT'nim apart, N^hus 
proving that shejfaUhe more tosi
noD
Do you believe it unwise to eat .-----. - /Jjat irregular'hours, even YES I NO I Ithough youre hungry? * LJ 1 .JDo You Think for YoursGlf ? (*r ress ntB
WRCT, KDKA 
To Broadcast 
Sterp&SoinidTech Dramats Will 
Fresen^ Epic Play
can tren an
gram
WilcT has 
ationiof KI
(echts 
kext prountil the 
irts Building
a stereo prograiat
same time KDKA-FM is carry
ing the other channel y\u ma; 
create stereo in your r< 
simply tuning one AM radio 
and the other to 1020 kc
Two AM Radios Needed
Its easy to get another^MTse'
cos
enjoyiijg tlf^efflct of stere^^urther, the full frequencie^mf F 
are not lost due to WBcTs 
usual mod|"*Qf transmission, 
ed wireles*\as the 
teurs came\p 
War II doesNoot' 
usual Federal 
Commission ruliiTgr. I 
Therefore WRCT^an 
a much wider bandwiS^h 'Whence 
better frequency range) tn^fk3ther 
AM stations. If your radio is ca
pable of picking up the whole
band and reproducing it faithful
ly, you would have a stereo system 
to match the best.
Stereo Adds Depth 
Even if you have only two com
mon, ordinary table model ra
dios you will be surprised at the 
feeling of depth and richness thatj 
is added to the music by stereo 
To get the proper sound perspec
tive, try placing the two radios proving that j>h
tfjfc nr^rt. Back nri'lll itoooooohe o-  * ^ncluded
Tue sfor; 
s
ruft >aotTier oy ,\fie 
olution /Sy the iron shrvls 
e ^ity oKlluka/^^ults ii 
slaying of Geffrgi AbasS^'alit sfcveri^ai^-His v^SNNatillaJHl^s/the 
y and la/ves n^r s^)j^inaie 
ehind. flf^usha, axYytttruj/ serv
ant, taires tn^ hei/^p\^Js^bps h^ 
for jroout 3 y
eanwhile, .^/evoluticAi^s 
'are seardujMf^or rfruslw(xfor^hey 
hope to #etrievg^ne chldEndlcol 
lect the TaiTSom whiclf NkteliV is 
offering. A trial is held t^dete 
mine who is the reaLm 
^cas^ i the childNatella, w/io efj him 
behind, or Grusha, wi 
life and raised him.
Chalk Circle 
The judge <iraws/a chal 
in the mid^te T'^n^vco 
floor and q$ge^tJfe q
~rmi grnrid nt ttjV'righi 
ed by imagina 
speakers axis.
WRCT, 600, should be hear 
your right, and KDKA, 1029, 
should be coming from the left.
are Jim
rolur^^j(n be-set6ac-Se inditaste tb> compensate for 
room acoustics, but equal loud
ness usually gives the best effect.
Parl^f, f^/d. Walter, Steve Gref, 
Smith, Don Beck, 
Jerry Mickey, Bob 
lauer, Ivan Cury, 
5urt Rogal, Nancy 
arthy, Marilyn Greiner, 
Peggy Hughes, Janet Epstein, 
Francesca Reed, Gay Heit, and 
Janet Young.
TickeJe will be available in the 
lice after Christmas
ounselling Job 
In New York
th Christmas vacation fast 
ching, college students 
g~of spending next summer 
c# up counselors will have the 
opportunity to line up a 
er job, stated a news release
_____the New York Department
of i-.aborT
>ectl for camp counseling 
jobs tne rllease continued, are 
excellent tait smart students go 
after the r lobs well in advance. 
The Cam i ifnit of New York State 
Employrr :rm Services Profession
al Placer efit Center is now con
veniently; located in midtown 
Manhattan# at 444 Madison Ave. 
By registering there during the 
Christmas holidays, prospective 
studerdn counselors will have the 
edge on th^se who apply later. 
Jods fp^general counselors pay 
$160 to $400 a season plus 
free transportation and room and 
board at resident camps. Special
ists in dance, drama, music, nat
ure study, photography and ath
letics (swimming in particular) 
can earn from $250 to $600 plus 
extras.
 EUROPE 
Dublin to the Iron Curtain; Africa to 
Sweden. You're accompanied  not 
herded around. COLLEGE GROUP 
Also shorter trips.
EUROPE SUMMER TOURS
255 Sequoia, Box 10
PASADENA, CAL.
FOR COMPLETE 
<Mi<i &IFT SELECTIONS
\  Try Us First OAKiAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE, PAINT.
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923
Cheerless leader
Not a rah rah left in him! He's just 
discovered there's no more Coke. And 
a cheer leader without Coke is as sad 
as a soap opera. To put the sparkle 
back in his eyesomebody! 
bring him a sparkling cold Coca-Cola!
SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled under authority of The Coca -Cota Company by
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
572i Central Ave. HI 1-7011
1.If the salaries were equal, would you rather be a college professor than a movie star?
2. Would you rather borrow money from a bank or institution than 
from a friend?
YES
6. If you actually saw a flying saucer land, would you run for 
xyour life?
YES?NO?
?
4. Do you think its foolish Bly i Lto daydream ? -----
?YES NO?
?
YES? NO
7. Would you be inclined to follow i-----1 r1 r
. the latest style in clothes regardless YES i NO___I vof how it looked to you? ----- -----
?
Are you confused by the clamor of conflicting claims so many filter cigarettes are making 
these days?
The fact is, thinking men and women 
don't let themselves get pushed and pulled 
by all those filter claims. They know what 
they want in a filter cigarette. And they 
know only VICEROY gives it to them. A 
thinking man's filter, a smoking mans taste. 
Makes sense.
Should you smoke VICEROY? If you think 
for yourselfchances are you do already !
*// you have answered Yes to two out of the 
first three questions, and No to five out of the 
last six... you think for yourself!
e 1958. Brown * Williamson ToMcw Corp.
?
The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows -
ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S 
FILTER...A SMOKING MAN'S TASTEt
3. Would you rather have test3 sprung on you than be warned about them in advance?
8. Would you feel badly if you thought nobody at all knew where you were ?
0.
9.
Familiar 
pack or' 
crushproof 
box.
NO
