Kiltie 
Formation% 
Aren't Easy 
See Page 6
Cross Country 
Looks Good 
See Page 5
VOL. 45No. 4CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1951
C Club Dance Features Brad Hunt
WRCT Will Present 
Live Drama Program
For the first time in its history,? 
WRCT will present a weekly dra
matic program produced, directed, 
acted, and in some instances writ
ten, by students of the drama de
partment. The program has the 
title, In Search of the Air, and 
will be heard every Thursday 
evening at 10:30, beginning this 
week.
The first presentation will be 
Michael Hero, a one-act play by 
Eugene Feist. This will be the 
first radio broadcast of this play 
which was seen at last years Arts 
Night. John Bracchitta, Suzanne 
Granfield, and Joan Smith of the 
original cast will be heard in the 
radio production, as well as Mary 
Ann Benedict, Dan Levin, Re
becca Reichter, and Charles Bate
man. The program will be adapted 
for radio and directed by Harvey 
Katz.
On following weeks students will 
be able to hear such plays as The 
Late George Apley, Men in White, 
George Washington Slept Here, 
Our Town, All About Eve, and No 
Ear for Treason. The latter is an 
original play by Joseph J. DiSalvo 
and will be the drama depart
ments first major production of 
the season.
VA Payments 
May Be Late
Checks Will Arrive 
Early In November
As in previous years, the Vet
erans Administration in Pennsyl
vania has warned veterans plan
ning to train this fall under the GI 
bill to make certain that they have 
funds of their own to tide them 
over until sometime in early No
vember, since GI subsistence 
checks may be late in coming.
The VA will try to make the 
payments as quickly as possible. 
They expect to get them all out by 
the early part of November. The 
VA requests that veteran-students 
refrain from writing to the agency 
about the delays, because answer
ing the queries takes the time that 
otherwise could be spent process
ing subsistence checks.
Any delay in mailing out the 
checks will not prevent eligible 
veterans from starting class on 
time. When the checks arrive, VA 
emphasizes that they will include all payments due from the time 
the veteran started class.
C Book
Any organizations who wish 
to be listed in the activities 
directory of the C Book are 
requested to leave the names 
and phone numbers of the 
president and secretary at the 
office of the Assistant Dean of 
Students, AH 144C.
This listing includes all 
publications, honoraries, fra
ternities, sororities, and other 
campus organizations.
Schedule
WRCT
Monday
:00News and Sports 
:15Music
:30Football. CIT vs. California :00Smoke Rings 
: 15Great Music
Tuesday
:00News and Sports
:15Music
00Blind Date:30Gripes and Groans
:00Smoke Rings
: 15Great Music
Wednesday
:00-News and Sports : 15Music 
:30Jazz Duet
:30Talk Your Way Out Of It 
00Smoke Rings :15Great Music
Thursday
00News and Sports 
:15Music:30Queen Interviews 
:30-Twenty Questions 00Smoke Rings 
: 15Music30In Search Of The Air
Election
Petitions are now being 
accepted for the candidates 
for freshman class officers. 
The offices are as follows: 
president, vice-presidents (one 
from E&S, one from MMCC, 
and one from FA), secretary, 
and treasurer.
To be eligible for the offices, 
one must be a full time, first 
semester day school student in 
the freshman class. The peti
tion forms may be picked up 
in the Dean of Mens office, 
and must be returned there 
October 5.
Elections for the fresh
man officers and homecoming 
queen will be on October 16.
Get An X-Ray!
A Mobile X-ray unit is 
coming to Carnegie campus to 
take chest X-ray pictures of 
all students. A chest X-ray is 
considered part of the speci
fied physical examination and 
is a requirement for each reg
istered student.
The service is free and 
making the photograph takes 
only a few minutes. By this 
means you can be sure wheth
er or not you have an unsus
pected condition which might 
lead to tuberculosis.
The unit will be at the 
south side of the Fine Arts 
building on the follow days:
Monday, October 1, 11:00 
a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Tuesday-Friday, October 2- 
5, 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Monday-Friday, October 22- 
26, 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Nine Seekin cr 
Homecoming 
Queen Election
Nine girls were selected by their 
departments to be candidates in 
the freshman Homecoming queen 
election. Each department picked 
three girls, and the list was cut 
from 18 to nine by the election 
committee.
The candidates are: Dianne Bobinski, Joanne Boyd, Clothing and 
Design; Joyce Davis, Blair Mc
Cracken, Drama; Sallie Gottlieb, 
General Studies; Doris Kniess, 
Mary Ellen Ruth, Foods & Nutri
tion; Catherine Orlando, Paint
ing & Design; Bonnie Shields, 
Clothing & Retail.
Next weeks Tartan will carry 
pictures of all the candidates.
Fraternities Announce 
Fall Pledge Classes
With the hectic week of parties, picnics, smokers, and no sleep 
now far behind them, the 12 CIT fraternities have announced the 
following list of pledges for the fall semester.
Alpha Tau Omega  James4------------------------:----------------------------
Daininger, John Muller, James 
Miller, Dale Alexy, Alexander
Cerrito, John Button, John Bredfield, Allan Morton, James McKane, Philip Jeske, Bill Dosey, 
John McNall, William Staufenberg, Robert Kovacevic, Peter 
Taaffe.
Beta Sigma RhoBarnet Annenburg, John Barkclay, Bernard 
Block, Edward Broida, Norman 
Cohen, Jim Feldman, Ted Goodell, 
Mim Langer, Philip Lubitz, Rob
ert Livingston, Robert Levin, Jo
seph Manchester, Gerald Marks, 
David Mintz, Robert Summer, 
Richard Weger, Emanuel Slawkin.
Beta Theta PiDon Van Wort, 
Bill Zuefel, Bob Vanderslice, 
Howard Mcllvried, A1 Body, Jack 
Kane, Joe Fleko, Jim Revis, Van 
Anderson, Bob Wright, Wakey 
Bowser.
Delta Tau DeltaWilliam Dev
lin, Leroy Reilly, John Sweeny, 
Arthur Womer, Donald Weik, Ed
ward Bigelow, Alexander Monteith, James Turney, Loren Zim
merman, Thomas Holleran, William McMahon, Charles Portman, 
William Steitz, Tim Sultan, Wil
liam Watt.
Delta Vpsilon  David Shiodo, 
Andrew Stedry, Dick Bleakley, 
Hans Riddervald, Arthur Millas, 
Adolph Osadnik, John Butler, 
Theodore Monacelli, Bryan Ken
nedy, Richard Lang, Robert Qualters, Otto Weber, Thomas Langan, 
David Williams, Charles Gegick, 
Jacob Knoedler, Thomas Bittner, 
Thomas Warner, William Horner, 
Berb Buchwald, Harry Hellings.
Kappa Sigma  Lloyd Bell, 
James Blatt, Charles Shempp, 
Richard Cortes, William Brown, 
Joseph Saino, Thomas Pies, Rob
ert Gardner, Edward Hanna, Wil
liam Rassbach, Roland Leonard, 
Curtis Nelson, John Maclean, Ed
ward Davis, Donald Simboli, Rich
ard Christensen, Carl Dirkes, 
George Miley, George Farnarth, 
William Farbacher, William Warfel.
Pi Kappa AlphaDon Arenth, 
Dave Baldwin, Bill Boney, Keith 
IContinued on page 61
Parents Of Football Players 
Special Guests Of Varsity
Football Team Will Be Introduced To School
At Informal Saturday Dance In Gym
Carnegie's first all school dance of the yearsponsored by the 
varsity C Clubwill be held this Saturday in the gym. The dance 
will feature Brad Hunt, popular local band leader, and his or
chestra. ? --------------------------------
Highlight of the evening will
First Issue
Constitution Approved, 
New Position Created
be the introduction of the individ
ual members of the football team 
to the student body, with Presi
dent Warner and the football 
coaches making the opening re
marks.
Special guests of honor at this 
years dance will be the parents 
of the football players; the C 
Club plans to give the parents a 
first hand view of training and the 
game itself. The parents will ac
company their sons to the noon 
training table, be shown movies 
of previous games, and will have
Brad Hunt
At C Club Dance
special seats at the Bethany game 
in the afternoon. Fathers will sit 
on the field, while the mothers 
will be provided choice seats in 
the stands.
Brad Hunt is well remembered 
by Pittsburgh audiences as one of 
the best of the local bands. In 
playing for last years C Club 
dance, he helped make it one of 
the most successful social events 
of the school year.
The dance is informal, with no 
flowers permitted. Tickets at $2 
each, can be purchased in Skibo at 
noontime any day this week.
1951 Grid Season 
Welcomed at Pep 
Rally Friday Night
Last Fridays pep rally started 
off the football season with a bang. I 
Led by the Kiltie pipers, cheer- I 
leaders, and the DU band, songs j 
and yells rocked the Carnegie Tech j 
Bowl. Coach Dr. Eddie Baker re
quested more solid support of the j 
team this year, promising us an
other good record.
A half-hour parade of motor
cycle escorts, bands, and cheering 
students down Margaret Morri
son and Forbes Streets to Moorewood Gardens v'as climaxed by a 
procession from the barracks park
ing lot.
The first issue of the Scot, Car
negies variety magazine, will go 
on sale for the Homecoming week
end, October 17, 18, and 19.
Bill Wayman, new editor of the 
magazine, has announced that the 
Scots constitution has been ac
cepted by the administration. The 
variety magazine has been as
sured of a firm financial footing 
after the sale of the Homecoming 
Scot, which is well underway.
Three weeks ago it was ex
tremely doubtful whether Car
negie Tech would see another 
issue of the Scot. The new staff 
had to fight the traditional finan
cial failures of the past Scots as 
well as to set up a new constitu
tion before they could even begin 
thinking about the fall issue.
The purpose of the Scot as 
stated in the constitution shall be 
to serve the student body of Car
negie Institute of Technology by 
furnishing an outlet for creative 
work produced by students in this - 
college, and by providing a high 
quality of entertainment for their 
enjoyment.
The Scot will be published four 
times a year  Homecoming, 
Christmas, spring registration, and 
Spring Carnival.
The newly created position o 
personnel manager has been filled 
by Larry Glavin, sophomore. This 
was a much needed addition to 
the staff as in previous years no 
attempt was made to recruit capa
ble replacements for each editorial 
board member before the end of 
the year.
The Homecoming issue will in
clude an article on the guided 
tours which the alumni take while 
at Carnegie. This tour usually in
volves a trip to the Cyclotron at 
Saxonburg. It will also contain a 
write up on Allegheny college 
since we play Allegheny at Home
coming.
Correction
There are a lot of Georges 
in the world but the new di
rector of the Carnegie Glee 
Club doesnt happen to be one 
of them. How the Tartan 
managed to get George out 
of Richard L. is a mystery to 
all concerned, unless it was 
because Richard L.* didn't 
happen to fit into a headline 
as nicely as did George.
However, we are happy to 
correct our mistake and an
nounce that Richard L. Camp 
is the new director of the glee 
club.

---------------------------------------------------

2TAOTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1951
Editorial
.. . And Stalin Smiles
An article in a recent issue of Fortune, titled A Helluva 
Shortage of Engineers, points up again the large and grow
ing shortage of engineers and other technical personnel 
throughout industry. As a result, the graduating engineer 
has begun to replace the football hero as the campus glamor 
boy.
These conditions are, of course, economically pleasing to 
young engineers, but, as Fortune points out, the shortage will 
seriously hamper this country in the technological and sci
entific race with Soviet Russiait is estimated that by 1954, 
if present trends continue, there will be only 6,000 engineer
ing graduates available to fill a demand for 30,000. Russia, 
meanwhile, trains scientists and technicians at a rate esti
mated at 100,000 per year.
Part of the shortage stems from the low birth rate of the 
thirties, but the major portion of the blame for the current 
shortage can be placed squarely at the doors of Congress and 
various government agencies. They have foliowed a consistent 
policy: billions for the hardware of war but little or no con
sideration for the brainpower necessary to keep this countrys 
superiority over the scientific and technological areas where future 
wars will be won or lost.
The folly began during the last war when colleges and 
industry alike were stripped almost bare oi their young sci
entists and engineers. It threatens to be compounded with 
the drafting of a major portion of current graduating classes. 
As Fortune puts it, of the 19,000 young engineers, or half 
of last Junes graduating class, called into service this year, 
the bulk are occupied not in engineering but in the medieval 
nonsense of strictly military service. By following such poli
cies as these the government shows its gross ignorance of 
the foundations of the society it is attempting to protect.
One bright note is the recent plan granting deferment 
to those scoring 70 or better on a nationwide examination or 
maintaining a satisfactory level of scholarship. But defer
ments are granted at the discretion of local draft boards, and 
until this condition is remedied there is no guarantee that 
the plan will be effective.
At the core of the problem are the many misconcep
tions held by the publicand many government officials 
about the engineers place in our society. To many people, 
engineers are in a peculiar class midway between engineoilers and professional statusthese same people forget that 
it has been largely the engineer and scientist who have given 
this country, with 6% of the worlds population and 5% 
of its land area, the highest standard of living in the world. 
It is high time that the public and the government alike 
realize that the maintenance of the living standard depends 
upon an adequate supply of technical talent.
Letters
The Tartan welcomes any and all letters to the editor 
and will print as many as space permits. As a rule, these 
letters should be kept within 400 words or less so that more 
than one view of a question may be presented. Here is one 
way that student gripes and grievances can come to the at
tention of those who can do something about them.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. TELEPHONE: 
SCuenley 1-4557 after hours MUseum 1-7017; for advertising and subscriptions. 
MUseuxo 1-4076. HAzel 1-5360. Published weekly, during tie school year, except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .................................................................................................. Lloyd W. Dyer, Jr.
Business Manager ................................................................................................ Clarence Smith
Managing Editor ................................................................................................... Fred Sonnenberg
Personnel Manager ..........................................................................*................... Richard Woods
New* Editor ................................................................................................................... Nancy Sitler
RAGS TO RICHES
Think It Over
By Richard A. Ahlstrom
Do you wish to see something funny? Then just observe the 
way people walk.
Donald Duck wasnt a figment of imagination. People walk that 
way. (I wont go so far as to say that people actually walk the
way Charlie Chaplin does but Ive ?-----------------------------------------------------
seen them come pretty close.) j the head then. Have you noticed 
Aside from the toe-outer there the down-and-outer walk. This 
exists the toe-inner, another phe
nomenon of ambulatory types.
This variety is usually noted for 
what has been called bowed-legs.
Starts At Head
Now this may sound pedantic, 
but after careful observation,
(especially of girls) I have come 
to the conclusion that proper 
walking starts at the head. And 
in many European nations it has 
been my observation that this is 
a fact of actual practice as well 
as of conjecture. If the bucket 
on the head falls off. no dish wa
ter.
However, even without a prac
tical incentive, the head remains 
the initial point with which to 
begin to walk properly in two re
spects. The first is that one must 
wish to change his walk if he 
doesnt walk well, while the sec
ond is more practical. If the head 
is not held up and back, then even 
a respectable walk becomes an 
amble and a shamble.
Let us start our training with
walk is typified by an eyes low
ered, chin on the chest appear
ance. Elevate the chin, stretch the 
neck upwards and look at the sky. 
Blue, isnt it?
Shoulders Found
Working down we find the 
shoulders. The usual defect in this 
area is a tendency to roundness. 
This should be avoided. Bring 
your shoulders back, back, oh you 
can go further than that. Did I 
hear something snap?
Do you have a droopy chest? 
Elevate it. No one ever walked 
with grace while his chest was 
lost in his abdominal cavity.
We now reach the chief abut
ment section. Does it protrude 
either forwards or backwards? Do 
you have a bustle appearance? 
Your studies in Structural 
Strength will provide the foun
dation for the conclusion that the 
chief abutment section should be 
no further back nor further for
ward than the vertical line of the 
body.
Coal Research 
Center At CIT
Laboratory Increasing 
US Knowledge Of Coal
Much of Americas fundamental 
research on coal is being conduct
ed in the Coal Research Labora
tory at Carnegie Tech. Dr. H. H. 
Lowry, director of the laboratory, 
and an outstanding expert in the 
field of coal research, is currently 
leading an investigation into the 
combustion of pulverized coal.
Because of the late start in coal 
research, major gaps exist in 
knowledge about coal, not only 
about how to use it best, but about 
coal itself. In line with this, the 
primary objective of the Coal Re
search Laboratory is to increase 
knowledge about coal to permit 
better utilization of it. As a result 
of its research, much important in
formation has been obtained.
Advancements Made 
Knowledge of how and why coal 
burns is essential in making the 
best use of coal for fuel. The Coal 
Research Laboratorys extensive 
work in coal combustion has led 
to many important advancements. 
Other fields in which improve
ments are being made in the utili
zation of coal are gasification, car
bonization, and the manufacture 
of chemicals.
Some of the more important 
work of the laboratory has result
ed in the determination of the heat 
of combustion of carbon, predic
tion of performance of individual 
coals, gasification studies applica
ble to the improvement of the op
eration of blast furnaces, and di
rect recovery of aromatics.
Affects Industry 
Dr. Lowrys work with the 
burning of pulverized coal has al
ready led to a better understand
ing of the basic fundamentals of 
the actual burning process. The 
results indicate changes in prac
tice will be required if changes in 
type of fuel or degree of pulver
ization are made. A thorough un
derstanding of the combustion 
process will facilitate improve
ments in equipment or the design 
of new equipment in industry.
Sports EditorJustin Davidson. Copy Editor*Larry Glavin and Dick Durstine. 
feature EditorDick Alhstrom. Advertising ManagerJerry Seiner. Assistant 
Business ManagerDave Goldsmith. Circulation ManagerBarry Innerfield. Pho
tography EditorMartin Snyderman. Assistant Sports EditorCal Smith. Proof 
I [titarJohn Tancill. Personnel AssistantPaul Peoples. Chief ReportersShirlee 
Pioeger. Jane Robb. Marilyn Sweeney, Joe Weidman ReportersEstelle HerJuk Rosemary Serafim. Ann Parker. Jane Dowling, Bill Smith, Bob McQuaid, 
Joan Webb. Sports ReportersJoan Cumerton, Larry Summerill, Cal Biesecker, 
Jim McQune, Irv Schecter. Art StaffCarroll Gantz, Ken Ferguson, Duane 
Quintal. Jerry Weisman. Bill Gilmore. Make-up StaffBea Pollack, Ellroy Wild- 1, Dick Kendrick. Features StaffHarvy Katz. Headline StaffVincent Ribas,
Bi'l Mannel. Advertising StaffMarilyn Seiner, Bruce Steinhart, Edward Clark. 
Circulation StaffDick Guarino, Jay Levy. TypistsJoan Novack, Mildred Thomp
son, Anita Makrauer.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., 
College Publisher* Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscrip
tion SI.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on October 4. '907, at the Post Office at
Put burgh. Pa . under the Act of March 3. 1878. Accepted for mailing at peciaJ 
nte o fpostage provided or in the Act of February 3, 19*5.
Member oi the Associated College Press.
Welch Hall Named 
For Gridiron Star 
Who Died In War
William Filler Welch, in whose 
honor Welch Hall was named, lost 
his life while serving his country 
during the First World War.
He was born at Delaware, Ohio, 
August 25, 1893. His father was 
a mining engineer and so Bill 
spent his boyhood in the land of 
Mexico. He returned to the Unit
ed States for college preparation 
at the Augusta Military Academy, 
Fort Defiance, Virginia.
He entered Carnegie Tech and 
for three years played varsity 
football. He was a member of Sig
ma Alpha Epsilon, and president 
of his class during his junior year.
In 1915 he received a BS in 
Commercial Engineering. Two 
years later, the United States at 
war, Bill joined the Navy and be
came chief electrician at the U.S. 
Naval Radio Station at New 
Brunswick, New Jersey.
He died of pneumonia at Dela
ware, Ohio, October 10, 1918,
while home on furlough.
R. O. T. C.
There are a few vacan
cies in the Advanced 
Course, Reserve Officers 
Training Corps, Carne
gie Tech. You may qual
ify if you are a veteran 
or have had R.O.T.C. in 
college. See Warrant Of
ficer Pacek in Room 242- 
B, Administration Hall, 
for further information.
