I
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 52NUMBER 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1958
Bucknell Beaten
Eleventh Hour Score 
Gives 19-13 Victory
By George Paris
Techs rambling Tartans upset 
He applecart Saturday with a 
thrilling 19-13 come from behind
victory over a highly favored -back for the Skibos put the ball
Bucknell eleven. The Lewisburg 
team had held the Skibo offense 
to small gains throughout the first 
three quarters. Then in the final 
stanza the Tech offense opened up 
and pushed the stunned Bucknellers all over the field.
Bucknell TD
Bucknell scored a first quarter 
as they moved straight down 
the field on short gains. However, 
they missed the extra point but 
led 6 to 9. That was the score at 
halftime as neither team was able 
to put the ball over. Tech had two 
heartbreaking setbacks as twice 
they fumbled within the Bucknell 
10 yard line.
The favored Lewisburgers 
scored again in the third quarter 
on another long march and made 
Ae point to take a commanding 
13 to 0 lead going into the final 
stanza.
Then the Tartan offense opened 
upa vicious passing attack which 
Bucknell couldnt stop. The Tar
tans completed about four out of 
five passes and moved right down 
the field for the score. Jim Muth 
star passing and running quarterover on a quarterback sneak. Walt 
Majeski made the placement good 
and Tech pulled to a 13-7 deficit.
Tech Passing
Bucknell could not move the 
ball after the Tech kickoff and 
again Muth stunned the Bisons 
with his superb passing. At this 
time the referees ruled Muth in
eligible due to having been sub
stituted for twice in the fourth 
quarter and freshman Pete Boxsein came in to do the signal 
calling.
Boxsein proved as sharp a pass
er and moved the Tech attack 
downfield for the second score. 
This one came on a seven yard 
pass to freshman end Martin Poad. 
Bucknells huge line moved in to 
block Majeskis extra point at
tempt and the score was knotted 
at 13-13.
After taking the kickoff the 
Bisons offense moved the ball in
side the Tartan 10 yard line where 
[continued on page 5]
Kiltie Band
Male students interested in 
joining the Kiltie Band are 
requested to see George Reyn
olds, director, in the Exhibi
tion Room in the Fine Arts 
Building any Monday, Wed
nesday, or Friday at 4:30 p.m.
Dr. Coleman 
Presents Talk
Last Thursday, October 2, Dr. 
Coleman, professor of economics 
in G.S.I.A. and a politically active 
man, spoke at a Y forum on !iHow 
to Listen to a Politician. He began 
by saying Listen with two ears, 
one for skepticism and one for re
spect.
In an amusing and witty talk, he 
described the tools necessary for 
skeptical listening. For instance, 
if the candidate of the opposite 
party seems old and tired while 
your man is experienced, theirs 
is reckless in his spending, 
yours, a man who gets things 
done, you have fallen victim to 
the use of political synonyms.
This will be a campaign based 
[continued on page 7]
Space Age
Cdr.Hoover, Satellite 
Expert To Speak
United States Navy Commander George W. Hoover, an 
internationally famous authority on aviation and space travel 
will speak tomorrow evening, Oct. 8, in the auditorium of 
GSIA on Research and Development for Man-Machine Sys~ ?tems.Human Thinking commander Hoover has been
T one of the leaders in the develop-And Computers ! ment of the concept of man-marp  All chine systems. Such systems are
* OpiC CJT flareSS developed through combined efComputers and Human Think- forts in buildinS specialized maing, an address to be given next c^nes anc* *n training specialized
Tuesday, October 14 at 11:30 in th PCrate EX"amples of these man-machine sys-Fine Arts by Professor Herb- terns are Nike and the earth satelert A. Simon opens an all-Tech lites.
Feshut
Homecoming Queen Candidates
Left to right, the girls are Patty Moore, Sally Gonong, Audrey Applebaum, Suzie Bradford, Lana 
Kubasek, Judy Perry, Marcia Bridge, Janet Conrad.
1958 Thistles
As many Techites have 
found out, there are no 1958 
Thistles for sale! Editors of 
next years book suggest that 
such individuals take advan
tage of their new subscription 
system and order their 1959 
Thistles now!
< ? Banbury Cross..............page 4 < ?
* * Bulletin Board ....
<? Cartoon Lunik.....page 4 <
Coed of the Week... page 3 <
< ? Cultural Column ... .page 3<>
J [ Editorials ................
< ? Intramural News. .. 
31 Readers Write ....
..page 5 ^
..page 4 <?
Sports ......................page 5 ^;

Homecoming Queen Candidates 
Chosen From Freshman Class
Assembly series entitled Fron
tiers of Research.
This series of three lectures for 
the layman are to help satisfy 
his curosity as to what territory 
some of our own leading thinkers 
are exploring.
Computers 
Computers have been popularly 
known as thinking machines, 
and are even supposed to have 
nervous breakdowns on occasion, 
but what intrigues Professor Si
mon is the possibility of using 
them as powerful tools to in
crease our knowledge of human 
thinking, both with respect to 
problem solving and learning. 
An exciting research vista is 
opening, comments Professor Si
mon: by understanding the hu
man mind, we will learn to in
struct the computers, we will ob
tain deep insight into the work
ings of the human mind. He also 
stresses that this avenue of re
search, like most such, will be 
explored by young men.
Prof. Simon 
Professor Simon, associate dean 
of G.S.I.A., came to CIT from the 
Illinois Institute of Technology 
where he was chairman of the 
department of political and social 
science. He has co-authored many 
books, has written several arti
cles and is a member of the board 
of trustees of the social science 
research council.
Accomplishments
Among Commander Hoovers 
many accomplishments in this 
field are the establishment of 
project orbiter which led to Ex
plorer I, and the origination of 
the high altitude plastic balloon 
project now known as Skyhook.
In the field of aviation, he was 
responsible for the design of the 
standard Link trainer and first 
operational flight trainer, brought 
the Martin Baker ejection seat to 
United States, re-designed pilots 
instrument panels, and originated
Friday afternoon in the Maggie 
Murph recreation room, eight can
didates for Homecoming Queen 
were selected from the freshman 
class.
Jimmy Frazier, head of the 
queen campaign, explained to the 
girls the duties of Techs Home
coming Queen. Then sixteen nom
inations were made by depart
ments from among the girls pres
ent.
The girls chosen were briefly in
terviewed and from these 16 were 
chosen eight girls to run for 
Queen. They are:
Audrey Sue Applebaum,
Sharon, Pa.................MMCC j
Sue BradfordMoundsville,
W. Va...........................MMCC
Marcia Bridge, Pittsburgh..
................................Home Ec.
Jan Conrad, Pittsburgh ....
.............................Secretarial
Sally Ganong, Penn Hills,..
.................. General Studies
Lana Kubasak, Duquesne,
r*a....................................Music
Pat Moore, Cleveland, Ohio
..........................................Pi DJudy Perry, Nanvit, N. Y...
..............  Biological Studies
These girls will be presented to 
the campus and voting will take 
place it AR later date.
Varsity CT Club 
Dance Following 
Saturdays Game
As climax to the Thiel football 
game this Saturday the Varsity 
C Club Dancethe first all
school function of the 1958-59
Commander Hoover
Speaking tomorrow in GSIA 
Auditorium
the concepts of integrated flight 
instrumentation and standard 
ejectable capsule.
Cdr. Hoover
Commander Hoover enlisted in 
the Navy in 1934. He was grad
uated from flight school at Pen
sacola, Florida, in 1937, and serv
ed as a naval air pilot until short
ly after the Japanese attack on 
Pearl Harbor when he was made 
chief aviation pilot.
In 1942 Commander Hoover 
was assigned head of the flight 
_____ _ ____ ^ ^ ^ _ section of the special device diviyearwill be held in the mens I sion bureau of aeuronautics, gym. I United States Navy. He attended
m. j  , r\ n[c Nebraska University from 1949-The dance will be from 9:00 to
12:00 and the music will be pro- 51 and was awarded a B.S. degree
vided by the Walt Harper Combo, i in physics. He was made a comDuring an intermission the C j mander in 1955.
Club scholarship will be presented j Commander Hoover received the
to last yeai s outstanding fresh- j American Astronuatical Satiety
man athlete. | Space Flight Award December 7,
The tickets priced at $2.00 per, 1956, and the Fellow Award of the
couple, may be purchased this American Astronautical Society,
week from any C Club member January, 1958. He is at present
or at the table in Skibo during project officer in the field of high
lunch hours. \ speed, high altitude flight.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 7, 1958
Homecoming 
Visited ByJHexing Harpo
By Jim Willard
Harpo. the happy hexer, when 
he comes to campus, is sure to be 
seen at all the Homecoming acti
vities. This happy little man will 
be whisked with the crowd Friday 
afternoon to attend Carnegie Day 
and Varsity Varieties in the gymnasium. That evening he is sure 
to be at the pep rally and at all 
the fraternity open houses.
Saturday afternoon hell be right 
on the field when the Tartans 
break the Coventers. That evening 
he can jump or glide, as his con
dition dictates, to either of two 
orchestras, Walt Harper or Jim 
Gambo. The Homecoming Com
mittee is having ballroom dancing 
in the main gym and jazz music 
in Thistle Hall.
Harpo will be seen around cam
pus soon telling whats new with 
Homecoming.
Are You Trying To Tell Us Something?
Scotch n Soda needs you (like Uncle Sam).
Are you interested in publicity stunts on a grandiose 
scale? Are you tired of ordinary publicity stunts; the de
molition of Pitt Cathedral, Cha-cha-cha marathons, or Morewood panty raids?
We are too.
Have you ever been fired from a cannon? (We need stunt 
men.) Have you ever written for the Daily Worker? (We 
need writers.) Have you ever painted the town red? (We 
need artists). Have you ever worked in a dry cleaning estab
lishment? (We need press agents.) Have you ever put up 
a poster? (Yes, we need those, too.) In fact if you exist, we 
need you!
So if you do exist and are interested in any type of bus
iness or publicity work, come to the first Scotch n Soda pub
licity meeting in room B of the Carnegie Union on Thursday, 
October 9, at 4:30 p.m. We hope to see both of you there!
SC To Elect 
Vice Chairman
The second vice-chairman of 
the school year 1958-1959 will be 
elected tomorrow at 4:30 at the 
bi-weekly Student Congress meet
ing in Porter Hall 100.
The original vice chairman Cissie Rafferty Bonini, resigned 
shortly after her recent marriage. 
Student Congress must elect a per
son to fill the position.
Nominations
Nominations were made at the 
last meeting from the floor, and 
the present nominee are Mary 
Jane Stevens (Sr.), John Philbrick 
(Sr.), and Jeremiah Sullivan (Jr.).
The new vice chairman will be 
chairman of the rules committee, 
be responsible for the meetings 
adjenda, and will assume the 
power of the chairman should the 
chairman be absent.
Also, at the meeting, committees 
and their chairmen will be ap
proved. All Congress members are 
urged to attend tomorrows im
portant meeting.
Graphic Arts 
Society-AIGA 
Organizes Year
The Carnegie Tech chapter of 
the American Institute of Graphic 
Arts held its first meeting of the 
year last week.
The organization is composed 
entirely of printers with a lively 
interest in the graphic arts. This 
fact alone classifies them as un
usual in the printing department.
Plans
President Ed Westfall outlined 
the following plans for the coming 
I year: annual display of the Fifty 
j Books of the Year exhibit, a ser
ies of films pertaining to the 
graphic arts, organizing the 
I printers picnic, and several other 
regular functions.
The Carnegie Tech chapter of 
the AIGA is one of four student 
chapters in the country which 
work hand in hand with the na
tional chapter in New York City. 
Membership is open to all stu
dents of the printing department 
' and Fine Arts who have an in
terest in the advancement and im
provement of the graphic arts. All 
dues paid in to the national chapI ter are returned to the student 
I chapter for use in special projects.
Thistle Pictures
Last chance to sign up for 
Thistle photographs Skibo  
today, Tuesday, and Thurs
day 11:301:30!
Campus Chest 
Begins Plans
An innovation will be introduc
ed into this years Campus Chest 
drive; the usual pre-Christmas 
campaign will be held during the 
third school week of the second 
semester. This change has been 
made because in previous years 
and drive had to compete with fi
nancial burdens of Christmas 
shopping.
This years campaign will be 
organized as it was last year. Ev
ery person in school will be per
sonally contacted by solicitors. In 
the departments solicitors will 
contact commuters, while they will 
get in touch with resident students 
in the dorms and fraternity houses. 
Everyone will be asked to give 
only what they wish; the campaign 
goal is 100% participation. Last 
years campaign, organized around 
the same goal, succeeded in rais
ing approximately $$2,926.00.
Funds Divided
Campus Chest will again divide 
the money it raises among several 
collegiate and national charitable 
organizations; for example, they 
will contribute to the United Fund, 
World University Service, and spe
cial Tech student projects. Each 
Campus Chest drive participant 
may specify the proportions of his 
contribution which he would like 
given to each organization.
Under the chairmanship of Pete 
Sargent, the Campus Chest com
mittee is composed of Student 
Congress mem'oers A1 Gickler, Ken 
Humphreys, and Bob Gregory. So
licitors and other workers for the 
drive will be chosen from Student 
Congress and the YWCA, or may 
be volunteers from the student 
body.
Emerson Club
Highlight of this weeks Emer
son Club meeting will be a recital 
by Janet Remington, harpist, with 
assisting artists from the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra. Re
member the date, Sunday, Oc
tober 12; the time, 3:00 p.m.; the 
place, the First Unitarian Church, 
Ellsworth and Morewood Avenues. 
Refreshments and fellowship will 
follow this exciting musical program.
Carnegie Technical
At 7:30 this Tuesday evening, 
October 7, 1958, the Carnegie
Technical will hold an organiza
tional meeting in the Technical 
office on the third floor of the 
Carnegie Union. All staff mem
bers are required to attend.
Those people who signed up at 
the Activities Fair are being con
tacted personally, but other in
terested people are needed, too. 
This meeting will be brief but 
important. Everyone interested 
in working on any phase of the 
Technicalfrom writing to sales 
is urged to attend.
Speech Defects 
By Studentsj
To Be Analyzed
The Bureau of Measurement 
and Guidance last week announc
ed the appointment of Arthur 
Blum to provide assistance for 
CIT students with reading or 
speech difficulties.
Students who would like an an
alysis of their reading or speech 
difficulties can arrange for an ap
pointment in the office of the Bu
reau of Measurement and Guid
ance in 340C, Administration Hall. 
Mr. Blum will continue to pro
vide help for students, either individaully or in groups, through
out the year. He will be on this 
campus on Thursdays only.
Mr. Blum
Mr. Blum is a graduate student 
and an instructor at the Univers
ity of Pittsburgh. Before coming 
to this city, he worked for a year 
and a half on reading and speech 
problems among students coming 
to the psycholgocial clinic at the 
University of Pennsylvania.
He is now associated with the 
speech clinic at the University of 
Pittsburgh, and he is responsible 
for designing and implementing 
the remedial reading program 
clinic. The department is contin
uing its guidance program for all 
students on problems of a voca
tional educational, or professional 
nature.
Tech Receives 
Memorial F und
The establishment of the Isaac 
W. Frank Memorial Fund at Car
negie Tech was announced last 
week by President J. C. Warner.
The fund, which has been en
dowed by the Bessie F. Anathan 
j Foundation of Pittsburgh, will 
: provide scholarships for worthy 
and needy students in the College 
of Engineering and Science, first 
preference being given to candi
dates in mechanical engineering. 
The scholarships will be support
ed by a $20,000 gift awarded to 
Carnegie by the foundation.
Founder
In establishing the fund at Car
negie, Mrs. Bessie Anathan, foun
der of the Bessie F. Anathan Foun
dation and daughter of Mr. Frank, 
expressed the hope that, Each 
student who receives a scholar
ship will get inspiration from my 
fathers life and good works. The 
committee on financial aid at Car
negie will be responsible for se
lecting the scholarship recipient.
Mr. Frank, one of the most fam
ous engineers, designers, and man
ufacturers of industrial machin
ery of his time, was born Decem
ber 2, 1855, in Pittsburgh. He 
graduated from Rensselaer Poly
technic Institute with a degree in 
civil engineering in 1876.
Active Career .
Upon graduation from Rens
selaer, Mr. Frank was employed 
by the Keystone Bridge Company 
as a draftsman and worked on the 
plans for New Yorks elevated 
railway. He then worked for the 
United States government for the 
rivers and harbors commission and 
later as a deputy United States 
mineral surveyor at Leadville, 
Colorado.
In October, 1892, Mr. Frank 
helped organize the Frank-Kneeland Machine Company. Later he 
was the key person in the found
ing of the United Engineering and 
Foundry Company. He served as 
president of the company until he 
resigned in 1919. He also served 
as chairman of the board until 
his death in 1930. Mr. Frank was 
also active in both local and na
tional philanthropy.
Scotch "n Soda ^
Scotch "n Soda is now searching 
J for individuals to fill two top posi1 tions in the club, namely a musi
cal diiector and a choral director. 
The musical director is basically 
the man in charge of music for 
the show and also the orchestra. 
The chorus members, will be di
rected by the choral director 
which is a position new toQ^he 
club this year. Those interested 
in either of these two capacities 
are invited to apply Scotch n 
Soda, Box 258, within the week.
Newman Club
The Newman Club is sponsor
ing a hayride, for its members 
and non-members on Oct. 10. The 
ride will originate at The BcUn, 
in South Park, at eight, and it will 
return at ten. There will be two 
date wagons, and one for the 
stag and drag segment. The car 
pool will leave Cardinal Newman 
Hall, 125 N. Craig St. at seven.
Secretarial Club
The Secretarial Club will ppld 
its first meeting on October lb, at 
3:30, in the Margaret Morrison 
recreation hall. The program is es
pecially planned to acquaint fresh
men with the secretarial field. 
Mrs. Hortense Pearson, assistant 
professor of secretarial studies,
Mrs. Augusta Winebrenner, in
structor in secretarial studies, Lor
raine Fisher, a senior secretprial 
education major, and Maiiene
Garland, a senior secretarial
major, will be the speakers on the
program. The topics will deal 
with college secretarial training 
and the activities and organiza
tions that secretaries can join 
after school to further their ca
reers. Following the meeting, re
freshments will be served.
International Club
The club will hold its first meet
ing of the school year this com
ing Sunday, October 12, at 7:45 
p.m. in the Carnegie Union, Forbes 
Street. The meeting will be of an 
informal, introductory nature, and 
all interested persons, irrespective 
of nationality, are invited to at
tend.
President Warne^ 
Announces New 
Faculty Appointees
The appointment of four as
sistant professors and seven in
structors for the 1958-59 academic 
year was announced last Thurs
day by Dr. John C. Warner, pres
ident, Carnegie Tech. f
The new appointees, all of 
whom will serve in the College of 
Engineering and Science, are As
sistant Professors Paul Griffith 
Shewmon and William Edward 
Schiesser, metallurgical engineer
ing; and John Michael Radcliffe, 
physics.
William Lee Dollenmayer, as
sistant professor of mechanical en
gineering, has been promoted il Jm 
the rank of instructor.
The new instructors are: Robert 
John Kurland, Mordecai Benjamin 
Rubin, and Anthony Fidele Satur
no, chemistry; Robert Eugene 
Odeh, mathematics; James S. Langer, physics; James Leonard 
Evanko, civil engineering; and 
Donald Lee Feucht, electrical en
gineering.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 7, 195*CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
JLe aiate
C // /Cultural 
C^aiendiar
On Saturday, October 11, the 
jr^tsburgh New Friends of Music, 
Inc., will present the first concert 
of their 1958-59 season at Carnegie 
Music Hall. This recital will fea
ture the Eger Players, with Joseph 
Eger, one of the worlds foremost 
horn players, and his chamber 
music group. Free student tickets 
are available in the office of the 
music * department.
^\n exhibition of work by Wood
man Thompson, Design for Thea
ter is being shown in the Hewlett 
Gallery on the first floor of the 
Fine Arts Building through Octo
ber 17.
Chamber Music
A chamber music concert will 
be held in the First Unitarian 
Church at Ellsworth and Morewood on October 12. The program 
iscludes performances by Janet 
iffmington, harp; Bernard Gold
berg, flute; and Godfrey Layefski, viola. There is no admission 
charge. '
The musical, Lil Abner will 
be on stage through October 11. 
Reservations may be made by 
phoning the box office. Two For 
The Seesaw will open on October 
13 and continue through October
18.
jfcCoupons for student tickets for 
Monday and Tuesday evening per
formances of Two For The See
saw may be purchased at the 
office in Fine Arts. These coupons 
are then to be exchanged at the 
Nixon box office for admittance 
tickets.
Playhouse
No Time for Sergeants is now 
showing at The Playhouse in the 
Craft Avenue Theater and will 
jpitinue through November 8.
The Arts and Crafts Center at 
Fifth and Shady is featuring an 
exhibition by the Natural Color 
Camera Club, the Crafts of Donna 
and Walter Groer, and water 
colors bv Steven Kubisak.
Are you prepared to fully ap
preciate the Bicentennial Interna-nal Art Exhibition which will 
m at Carnegie Institute early in 
December? Are you fascinated or 
repelled by modern art? These 
questions can be resolved by dis
cussion series called Looking At 
Modern Art, which are being of
fered at Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 
the Carnegie College of Fine Arts 
and The Womans Club of Mt. 
Lebanon, co-sponsors. The pro
gram is made possible by the Ford 
Fund For Adult Education.
^The discussions, (not classes or 
lectures) at PPA and in Mt. Leba
non are planned for those who 
have had no training in art or art 
appreciation. All that is needed is 
an active curiosity, a desire to 
learn more and a willingness to 
share your thinking with others.
The groups, limited to 25 per
sons, will meet once a week, ten 
times. An eleventh session will be 
^group tour of the Bicentennial 
International Art Exihibition.
Participants will study controver
sial text, reproductions and slides 
which have been prepared and 
edited by the art department of 
the University of California. Un
der discussion will be statements 
by artists and critics and the 
works of cubists, abstractionists, 
surrealists and other moderns.
' Educations 
drained art educators who will 
lead the discussions are:*
Richard B. Beaman, Associate 
Professor of Painting and Design 
at the Carnegie College of Fine 
Arts. He received his education at 
Exeter, Harvard, Columbia, the 
University of California, Massa
chusetts Institute of Technology, 
and the Union Theological Semi
nary. He was formerly Chairman
of the Art Department at Red- j 
lands College in California and 
is an accomplished painter.
Edmund B. Feldman, Associ
ate Professor' of Art Education at; 
the Carnegie College of Fine Arts, j 
He received his art education at | 
Syracuse University and the Uni- i 
versity of California at Los An- I 
geles. He is a painter, author and 
was formerly curator of painting 
and sculpture at the Newark Mu- | 
seum.
Watson Van Steenburgh, assist- ; 
ant professor of Fine Arts ! 
at the University of Pittsburgh. I 
He received his art education at ; 
Lafayette College, Harvard and : 
in Rome. He formerly taught at ! 
Tufts College and at the Boston 
Mueseum of Fine Arts, and his j 
writings have included art critic
ism for a Boston daily paper.
The .following locations and 
times have been announced:
The Womans Club of Mt. 
Lebanon, 750 Hollycrest Drive, 
Monday evenings at seven 
oclock, starting October 6. Tues
day mornings at ten oclock, 
starting September 30. Mr. Van 
Steenburgh will lead both groups. 
(The morning series is open to 
club members only, the evening 
session is open to all.)
Pittsburgh Plan For Art, 
1251 North Negley Avenue (near 
Highland Park), Thursday eve
nings at 8:15, starting October 16, 
led bf Mr. Beaman. Friday after
noon at 1:30, starting October 17, 
led by Mr. Felnman.
Carnegie College of Fine 
Arts, Monday evenings at 8:15, 
starting October 13, led by Mr. 
Feldman. (This series is an ad
vanced program, open only to 
those who have attended PPA 
Looking At Modern Art discus
sions and to PPA artists.)
This evening (Thursday, Sep
tember 25), another Looking At 
Modern Art series, arranged 
j through the cooperation of Pitts
burgh Plan for Art by the Par
ents Association of the North 
Allegheny Joint Schools begins, 
j It is part of a program of eight 
activities to be given weekly at 
the North Allegheny Joint High 
School at special rates. Residents 
living outside the school district 
may enroll at the High School if 
vacancies remain.
Fees for the series in Pittsburgh 
and Mt. Lebanon are $12.50 for 
members of PPA and $15.00 for 
non-members. Registrations are 
being accepted by mail to Pitts
burgh Plan for Art, 1251 North 
Negley Avenue, Pittsburgh 6, in 
the order of their receipt. For 
further information, call:
Mt. Lebanon Series  Mrs. 
Junius Smith, LOcust 1-7391 or 
The Womans Club of Mt. Leba
non, LOcust 1-4023.
Pittsburgh Plan For Art and 
Carnegie Tech SeriesMrs. Roger 
Protas, EMerson 1-5448 or PPA, 
EMerson 2-1421.
North Allegheny SeriesMrs. R.
O. Jennings, WEstmore 5-1092.
Thompson Exhibition
A memorial exhibition of the 
works of Woodman Thompson, 
who was a leading stage and cos
tume designer for the New York 
theater during the 1920s and 
1930s is being shown in the Hew
lett Gallery in Fine Arts, Mon
day through Friday, from 8 a.m. 
to 5 p.m.
Drawings in color and black 
and white comprise the major 
part of the exhibition which closes 
October 17. Included are 26 stage 
designs and 20 costume designs.
Tech Graduate
Mr. Thompson graduated from 
the Carnegie department of drama 
in 1914, and was a member of the 
drama faculty from 1914 to 1922. 
His major successes on Broadway 
were What Price Glory, Beggar 
on Horseback, and The Magnifi
cent Yankee. He served as a 
member of the dramatic arts fac
ulty at Columbia University for 
six years prior to his death in 
1955.
The Thompson exhibition has 
been shown in several cities of 
Europe, including Bonn, Munich, 
and Salzburg. It was distributed 
by the State Department division 
of cultural affairs.
Safety Contest 
Scholarships
The General Tire and Rubber 
Company announced this week 
that it will award twenty scholar
ships ranging from $200 up to 
$1000 for the best answers or sug
gestions to the question: What 
Can Be Done To Assume Greater 
Highway Safety.
Any student attending high 
school or an accredited college in 
the United States is eligible to 
submit an entry.* Entries, which 
will be accepted from August 15, 
1958 to December 1, 1958, should 
be addressed to The General Tire 
and Rubber Company, 1708 Engle
wood Avenue, Akron 9, Ohio.
Entries should be written in 250 
words or less, and may contain 
any idea which will help cut down 
highway traffic accidents. The 
scholarship prizes will be awarded 
on the basis of originality and 
practicality.
Tecli Radio Club 
Members Learn 
Code And Theory
By D. L. Parnas
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club 
has many diversified activities. 
One of these activities is the op
eration of Amateur Radio Station 
W3NKI. When the station is in 
operation, we provide a message 
service to Tech students by check
ing into message nets. Licensed 
club members may operate the 
club equipment whenever it is not 
being used for nets.
New Activity
Several members of the Club 
recently initiated a new activity 
for our club. We are helping a 
nearby school for the blind get its 
Radio Club on its feet. Besides do
ing such things as antenna instal
lation, we are helping several 
blind children to get ham licenses. 
We can always use help in this 
activity.
For those members who are in
terested in obtaining a license, the 
club, in conjunction with the 
ROTC department, offers code and 
theory classes.
For members who are not es
pecially interested in Amateur 
Radio, but are interested in elec
tronics, there is the Technical De
partment. The Technical Chair
man, who is usually un-licensed, 
tries to find interesting projects 
outside the immediate field of ham 
radio. All club members have the 
use of club equipment, and much 
of the equipment belonging to the 
EE department.
The club possesses the makings 
of a really first-class amateur sta
tion. If there is enough club in
terest we can be on the air with a 
full kilowatt within a few weeks.
Project
New members spend the first 
semester on a sort of probation. 
Then as soon as we feel that they 
are truly interested in the club 
they are made members and given 
a key to the club room. Interest is 
usually shown by the completion 
of a project. This insures that 
membership is our club is reserv
ed for those who will make the 
proper use of it.
The club is under the jurisdic
tion of the department of Elec
trical Engineering. This in no way 
prevents students in other depart
ments from becoming members. 
The departments activities are 
limited to supplying a certain 
amount of room, equipment, and, 
on occasion, advice.
Officers for the term are 
Richard Potyka, W3ZWZ, presi
dent; J. F. Isenberg, W3BFQ, vicepresident; John Hess, chief op
erator; John Gardner, treasurer; 
Bill Russeau, secretary; and Pat 
Winslow, technical chairman.
Any communications to the Club 
or its officers can be addressed to 
the appropriate party and placed 
in the club mailbox which is lo
cated in the EE office.
(Editors note: This article is re
printed from the organizational 
issue of the Tec-Ham.)
CoeJ Of D,le Week
Suzie Kelly
Night school admissions secretary
Tartan Coed Contest
The Tartan announces a new contest for Tech men. The 
Coed of the Week feature now appearing in the Tartan will 
be selected from names of girls sent in by their male admirers. 
This contest is open to all Tech men. The procedure is to 
fill in the entry blank appearing below and place it in the 
interschool mail, addressed to Coed of the Week, Carnegie 
Tartan. If possible enclose a snapshot.
Each week the Tartan will select at random several 
names, probably about five, and from this list, the Tartan 
photography staff will select the Coed of the Week. The con
test may be entered as often as desired, of course no one will 
be pictured more than once and each entry should be made 
with the girls permission.
Entry Blank 
Coed of the Week Contest
Name .......
Address
Phone ..........
Submitted by
Students!!
1 Hour Dry Cleaning
2 Hour Shirt Laundry 
Rough Dry Laundry 
Tailoring and Repairing
Campus Cleaners
4609 Forbes Ave.
(Near Craig Street)

---------------------------------------------------

Pa*r 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 7, 195*
editorialCartoon Feature
Lunik The Schenley ApeNo Reward
It has recently come to the attention of 
the Tartan that the Tech campus honors stu
dent activity leaders more than it recognizes 
Techites who have achieved outstanding 
scholastic records. Although this problem has 
existed for n yearsfor at least the past sev
eral yearsto date no concrete steps have 
been taken toward a solution.
Every year different groups of campus 
leaders define and evaluate campus prob
lems but by the time they consider taking 
action the campus leaders either become 
involved in numerous activities and are forc
ed to turn their attention in other directions 
or they graduate.
It seems hard to reconcile the fact that 
membership and/or official position in a 
number of organizations should have more 
value to the student than the mastery of 
difficult academic courses. Yet this is the 
existing situation. Members of the womens 
class honoraries1 are usually chosen on the 
basis of a minimum 2.75 factor and their 
membership in extracurricular activities. No 
particular significance is, as a rule, attached 
to the woman who makes high grades.
Mens Honoraries
Mens class honoraries also function in 
this manner in selecting members. Factor 
requirements range from the top thirty to thirty-five per cent s 
of the class, and again, stress is given to membership and UOllXl 
contributions to activities. It has been pointed out that in ^C A
E&S the factor average for election to these honoraries is at JlilGCtlOlTS
times 2.60, and that a little extra consideration is given to 
the man who achieves a substantially higher factorODK 
providing the only exception in that it gives special atten
tion to the top few men in the class.
It is only in departmental honoraries and Phi Kappa dent, announced the following offi CGI'S*Phi, which are unfortunately not as well known as the class -. . .. , , , ,, i Donner (A-level): A1 Ogrodski,honoraries that particular attention is accorded to the aca- I president. Bill Anderson, vicedemic accomplishments of prospective members. Tau Beta president; Harry Fumea, secretary.
Pi and Phi Kappa Phi are Techs equivalent of Phi Beta Kap- Donner (first floor): Ira Kuhn,
pa and election to Phi Kappa Phi and/or Tau Beta Pi should vLTpreside^t; Vau/ ^aSian] 
constitute singular distinction. However, it is doubtful that secretary. Donner (second floor): 
many Techites know the significance of Phi Kappa Phi. A Powers, president; Leo Painpoll conducted by one of the history professors in a freshman secVete7y.P Donned fthd floor): 
womens Western Civ. course at the beginning of this semes- Gary Brandengerger, president; 
ter revealed that almost all of the members of the class knew David Hill, vice-president; Stan 
what Mortar Board is but only one or two could identify Phi 
Kappa Phi.
The Tartan feels that this situation can be rectified by 
the establishment of awards for outstanding scholastic 
achievement by either Student Congress or by the adminis
tration. These awards would serve as extra stimuli to study
ing and might eliminate the attitude taken by some students 
toward Four Factor Men-^book-woims.
2b 
IBanGu
By Paul Hess
Mens Dormitory Council last 
week elected officers for the com
ing year. Len Cozza, council presi12:30s A pproved
Brochstein, secretary.
Scobell
Scobell: John Lemmer, presi
dent; Richard Correnti, vice-pres
ident; Peter Noble, secretary.
Welch: Gerald Breiner, presi
dent; Dario Ramazzotti, vice-presi
dent; Buck Carson, secretary.
Boss: John Kahler, president; 
Dick Line, vice-president; Mike 
Georgeus, secretary.
McGill
McGill: Wes Cromie, president; 
John Friedly, vice-president; Hank
Last weeks Tartan editorial concerning the adoption of Greenberg, secretary.* ,a,  ,  , j i, J Henderson and Miller: Joe Rzep-permanent 12:30 s for Morewood caused no small amount ka, president; C. William Schneidof discussion among Techs students. The discussions in which ereith, vice-president; Jim Tozzi,
the writer participated were seemingly about evenly divided secre1ar3'
for and against the Tartan proposal, with perhaps a slight
majority in favor of the new hours.
It was originally supposed that the new hours would be 
a very controversial subject which would provoke the ex
pression of a great deal of student opinionprobably via the 
Tartan's Readers Write column. However, in view of the 
lack of any opinion (to the contrary or otherwise), the Tartan co^greK^TpfeTeiuUve5 for^'his 
can only conclude that its plan has met with the general ap
proval of the student body. R.G.W.
Birch
Birch: Richard Sanford, presi
dent: Dale Detirck, vice-president; 
Ted Williams, secretary.
Cedar and Cypress: Mike Crowe, 
president; Roger Urban, vice-pres
ident; no secretary.
One of the most important attributes ol 
the humanist is the trained eye, capable of 
seeking out and delighting in the aspects. 
beauty present in any circumstance. While 
the untrained vision can, I suppose, find 
pleasure in scenes of obvious magnificence 
or postcard prettiness, the tutored eye will 
be able to grasp from any situation that bit 
of lovliness which is surely present whereever one has the wish and the skill to see.
The tourist at Grand Canyon is .over
whelmed by a size and a beauty which 
so obvious that they are unavoidable. But 
can they, in the vast panorama of that place, 
see the small things which give it scale and 
true majesty? The eye which sees the green 
grass so small at the edge of the red-brown 
chasm wh;ich finds in the layers of color 
and pattern a tale of growth and of destruc
tion: this is the eye which grows to know 
.and to love the Grand Canyon.
Average American 
That the average American is lacking in 
just this skilled vision, is recognized by all 
of sensitivity who have served the nation 
in her armed forces. That man who can 
fiind in the bleak aspect of an army firing range a stark 
lovliness, or who sees beyond the khaki confines of caserne 
existance to the rare beauty of a Korean sunset, will be able 
to enjoy a measure of serenity unavailable to the ordinary 
man. * ^
It is surely possible that any man can develop this apprecative eye, which Constantino Nivala calls the Visual 
Conscience, by means of a continual alertness and a desire 
to see.
A simple initial exircise might consist of conciously ap
preciating the aesthetic virtues of a woman of comely form 
and feature. And in order to expand his field of visual ex
perience the neophyte aesthete might visit Mudge House, 
the First Baptist Church, or the Carnegie Music Hall foy^ij 
and in those places let his eye linger over the totally differ
ent details and effects of these Oakland structures.
Blenheim.
& Readers Write... Iill
dorm and attends dorm council 
meetings. The other officers help 
direct dorm activities, explained
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13. Pa. Office Phone 
MU 2-4557; Managing Editor. MU 2-8877; Executive Editor, MU 2-9053; Business 
Manage, MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination period by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Cozza. They have such duties as: food these dogs eat, the room 
organizing the movies shown in they take up in classrooms, and 
Donner Hall, parties, homecoming t the danger they impart to studisplays, the freshman mixer held dents walking across the cut. Not 
at the beginning of the fall term, only that, they bully the smaller, 
an orphans party at Christmas, established, upper-class dogs.
(-Editor .................................................................................................................. Carol Sooby('-Editor .......................................................... ...............................................  hard Wiley
Associate Editor .................................................................................................................. David Doll
Business Manager ................................................................................................ Mii-hael Bass
New Editor ........................... ............................................................................................... Tom Bie*K ports Editor ........................................................................................................ Georje Haris(opr Editor ...................................................................................................... Jerry Sullivan
and a spring picnic. Two council 
secretaries (corresponding and re
cording) and a property custodian 
were elected today. President 
Cozza is working on committee 
setups for the various activities.
The elections were carried out 
in the following manner: A nom
inating committee of five including
at Pittsburgh. Pa.
advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
two counsellors was selected. This 
committee chose the candidates j campus who stand over 
| who were then voted upon by the | tall? 
dorm residents at large.
A Towering Castle
Dear Mr. Blenheim:
You, an apparently learned young man, may be able to 
explain some extraordinary phenomena I observed in a re
cent foray to a section of the countryside called by its den------------------------------------------------------?izens oak-land.
While strolling down lowj}) 
Forbes Ave. on Saturday past, I 
encountered many natives rushing 
pel-mel to a huge coliseum named 
pit stadium. Upon questioning 
a native, I learned to my dismay 
that some type of religious purge 
was to be carried out, that of 
setting panthers upon some Holy 
Cross Crusaders. My informant 
used such phrases as mangled, 
eaten up, and, oddly enough, 
block - and - tackle. Apparent! ) 
the natives have reached some de
gree of higher Stone-Age civilizamechanical aspects of torture. I 
tion and are quite advanced in the 
continued my wanderings, wish
ing, of course, to avoid the bar
baric spectacle.
The Pit
I next viewed -the obvious 
stronghold of the region, a tower
ing castle called pit. This recur
ring phrase would seem to sttf 
from the previous design of the 
castle (one surrounded by a 
treacherous moat.) As I was ad
miring the apertures in the castle 
walls, (cunningly placed for 
archers and boiling-oil contriv
ances), a wave of the pit people 
descended from the pit stadium. 
They seemed delirious over the 
Willy [continued on page 8]
K-9 Problem
Editor, the Tartan
It is my opinion that the dig
nity of Techs campus is being 
undermined by the increasing 
number and increasing size of 
campus canines.
The large number of dogs roam
ing around campus, through the 
halls, and even into classes has 
proved to be a menace to students 
endeavoring to uphold the dignity 
of the institution. This is evident 
when one considers the amount of
Add to these indignities the fact 
that this increased population is 
a definite threat to those of us 
firmly established in good homes 
and you can see why I am right
eously indignant about these too 
numerous, too big, and too strong 
canines.
May I suggest we pass a regu
lation forbidding dogs from
1% feet
I

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 7, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 
0 Statistics
Carnegie Tech ........... 0 0 6 1919
Bucknell ...................... 0 0 0 013
Touchdowns: Carnegie Tech  Muth 
<l-yard rush); Poad (7-yard pass from 
Bowxsein); Arendas (26-yard pass from 
Bowxsein). Extra pointMajeski (place
ment). Failed extra pointsMajeski 2 
(placement) Bucknell; Terhes (6-inch 
eneakl. Moncilovich (3-yard plunge). 
Extra pointSalinger (placement). Failed 
extra pointSalinger (placement).
Referee  Stephen A. Boduar, Pitts
burgh. UmpireJohn A. Kostecki, Pitts
burgh. LinesmanJames W. McGuckin. 
Dickinson. Field judge  Stanley W. 
Btffle, Temple.
CKNELL CARNEGIE TECH
15................ First down ........................15
217........... Bushing yardage..............139
67.............Passing yardage ..................262
14,........... Passes attempted ...............31
5............. Passes completed .............18
0.............Passes intercepted ..................0 4.......................... Punts ............................3
39.5......... Punting average .........20.3
3...................Fumbles lost ......................4
35........... Yards penalized .................25 5........ Number of fumbles ...............4
3........... Number of penalties ..............2
Goach Carman 
Looks At Team
Coach Bob Carman, who has re
turned from a one-year leave of 
absence is very optimistic about 
this years cross-country team.
Five seniors, three juniors, a 
sophomore, and a freshman pro'ijfcic the nucleus for what Coach 
Carman has reason to believe is 
a top contender for the first West 
Penn Conference cross-country 
crown. Says Coach Carman, Our 
toughest meets will be against 
Grove City and Slippery Rock. If 
we are able to keep injuries to a 
minimum, we should be able to 
outrun them.
The schedule for the rest of the 
Mason follows:
Oct. 9 Geneva Away
Oct. 14 Case Home
Oct. 18 Slippery Rock Away 
Oct. 24 Westminster Home 
Oct. 31 St. Francis Away 
Nov. 4 West Virginia Home 
Nov. 14 Tri-State meet at 
Slippery Rock
Intramural Games 
Opens As Favorites 
Take Early Lead
Seventeen fraternity teams and 
six independent squads arranged 
in three leagues touched off the 
1958 IM football season last week.
Jumping into an early lead in the 
Pirate League, was last years 
campus champions, Kappa Sigma, 
victorious in both of their starts 
to date. In the Brooklyn League, 
Delta Tau Delta also got off to a 
quick start with two resounding 
wins over Sigma Nu B and the 
Clyde St. AC.
Most teams lost their top men 
by graduation. Especially hard hit 
was Kappa Sigma, which lost all
school quarterback Lou Montini 
and speedy halfback Jim Livengood, along with several linemen. 
But all the teams are showing 
promise, and are improving as the 
season progresses. This year, as 
usual, the competition will be 
rough in Techs hard-hitting intra
mural football.
Pirate League
Kappa Sigma 17Tau Delta 
Phi B 1.
Citcom 23Obelisk 12.
ATO B 26Beta Sigma Rho
13.
Kappa Sigma 18ASCE 12.
Englishmen 26ASCE 12.
Yankee League
Delta Upsilon 29SAE B 2.
Tau Delta Phi A 24PiKA 
11.
Theta Xi 23GSIA 5.
Sigma Nu A 34GSIA 7.
Brooklyn League
Delta Tau Delta 18Sigma Nu 
B 2.
Met Grads 18Phi Kappa 6.
SAE A 20Beta Theta Pi
14.
Delta Tau Delta 38Clyde St. 
AC 10.
ATO A 28Clyde St. AC 0.
CIT Harriers TripFemale lftPs
Jeanette, Dukes
Under the direction of returning Coach Bob Carman, the 
1958 Tartan cross-country team started their season in top 
form last Saturday with a double victory. In addition to 
crushing their traditional rivals, the Jeanette Harriers 15-49,
the thinclads picked up a victory#___________________________________
in the new West Penn Conference
The schedule for womens 
intramurals is as follows 
archery, October 8; table ten
nis singles, October 10, 14, 
and 21; badminton singles, 
October 10, 15, 20; Pick up 
entry blanks in the womens 
physical education office.
by outrunning Duquesne Univers
ity 17-46.
Last year Carnegie Tech won 
the first West Penn Conference 
all-sports trophy. Tech has long 
been a local power in cross-coun
try and this years team may well 
be one of Carnegies all time best.
Senior Stars
Three seniors, Eric Ottervik, 
Dick Hamilton and Bill Wittman, 
displaying indifference to the rig
ors of fatigue and the efforts of 
their opponents, crossed the finish 
line in a tie for first place. The 
winning time of 25:20 was very 
good for an early season race.
But the real excitement came, 
however, from a tremendous team 
performance, for within two min
utes the entire Tech squad, equiv
alent perhaps to a basketball team 
in which every man on the squad 
scored in double figures in the 
same game.
Teammates
Most of the Tech runners had to 
post their best times to stay 
ahead of their speedy teammates. 
Typical of the battle was frosh 
Dave Degenhardt who finished 
ahead of all but three opponents 
in the sparkling time of 27:31  
usually fast enough to ensure, a 
place in the top three or four  
but finished 13th.
Junior Bill Anderson slashed 
over a minute from his best time 
to edge out Senior Finn Bloomquist 
for fifth place in a private battle 
decided only in the last mile.
Woody Fritz, the sturdy little 
Wilkinsburg battler and Bruce Do
bras, a power-striding ex-footballer, rounded out the scoring seven. 
Sophomore, Glen Klepac, run
ning his usual heads-up race, man
aged to leave Pat Chamay with a 
late challenge and colsed to 
within six seconds of Dobras. 
Duquesne-Jeannette-Tech Meets
1. Ottervik ............................25.20
2. Hamilton..........................25.20
3. Wittman ............................25720
4. Fondy (Duquesne)............25.31
5. Anderson ...........................25.54
6. Bloomquist.........................26.14
7. Fritz.....................................26.28
8. Dickinson (Jeannette) ..26.40
9. Dobras ................................26.58
10. Klepac..................................27.04
11. Chamay...........................27.27
12. Fisher (Duquesne)............27.30
13. Degenhardt ........................27.31
"COKE" 13 A BEQlSTtftgQ TftAOE-MAftK. NNVOLUME5 C 195* ME COCA-COLA COMPANY*
Tartan
Highlights
The astounding upset of Notre 
Dame in 1928 may well have been 
the greatest moment in Techs 
football history, but there are 
many other peaks in a history that 
dates back 52 years.
The Tartans first fielded a team 
in 1906, but it was not until the 
last game of the 1920 season that 
they grew into football maturity. 
Tech climaxed this season with a 
6-0 victory over Washington and 
Jefferson, at that time an annual 
football power.
A forewarning of things to come 
was provided by the 1925 Tech 
freshman squad, which led by 
Howard Harpster went unde
feated. In 1926, the Tartans pro
vided the years greatest upset, 
perhaps an all-time great upset, 
when they up-ended the Rose 
Bowl bound Notre Dame squad 
19-0. So confident were the Irish 
that the immortal Knute Rockne, 
their coach, entrusted his team 
with an assistant and stayed in 
Chicago to scout the Army-Navv 
game.
1928 Team
1928 produced one of the great
est seasons in Techs history when 
the Tartans, led by All-American 
Howard Harpster, won their first 
seven games, including another 
win over Notre Dame, and seemed 
destined for the Rose Bowl. The 
Techmen had tallied 191 points 
and allowed the opponents a mere 
27. But in the final game of the 
season with New York University, 
the battle of All-Americans beIcow turned on page 7]
Tech Downs Bucknell
Tech completed 18 passes against Bucknell Saturday.
Gosh irosh!
howd you catch on so quick? Catch 
on to the fact that Coca-Cola is the 
hep drink on campus, I mean. Always 
drink it, you say? Wellhow about 
dropping over to the dorm and 
downing a sparkling Coke or two with 
the boys. The man whos for Coke 
is the man for us. $|GN 0p G00D TAST|
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Compony by
QIAKKR STATE COCA-COLA BOTTUNG CO. 
ft*,2 Ccatral Ave. HI -'.>11
[continued from page 1]
they fumbled and Tech tackle Bob 
Hammer recovered. There were 
less than two minutes* to play and 
being deep in their own territory 
the Tartans elected to run the 
clock out. Two punches at the line 1 
f^led to gain and then on a wide 
Weep, Majeski ran 40 yards and 
lateraled to Temmel who carried 
another 10 to the Bucknell 35 yard 
line.
Final Score
A Tartan pass failed and the 
Skibos lined up with eight seconds 
left to play for their final attempt. 
Boxsein dropped back and threw a
long high pass which frosh Steve 
Arendas leaped into the air and 
stabbed for a sensational catch 
and the winning score.
Tech missed the extra point but 
the team went wild with the final 
score at 19-13. It was one of the 
biggest upsets in recent years and 
couldnt have come at a better 
time to give the Tartans added 
spirit early in the season. Next 
week Tech takes on Theil at Pitt 
stadium. A large turnout of Tech 
fans is hoped for for the seasons 
home opener. If the Tartans con
tinue to play as they did Saturday, 
this could be the first undefeated, 
untide team in many a year.
c

---------------------------------------------------

Pff 6CARNEGIE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 7, 195
FILTER-BLEND
September 1959 
Danforth Grants 
To Be Awarded
The Danforth Foundation, an 
educational foundation located in 
St. Louis, Missouri, invites appli
cations for the eighth class 1959 
of Danforth graduate fellows. It is 
open to college senior men and re
cent graduates who are preparing 
themselves for a career of college 
teaching, and are planning to en
ter graduate school in September, 
1959, for their first year of grad
uate study The foundation wel
comes applicants from the areas 
of natural and biological sciences, 
social sciences, humanities and all 
fields of specialization to be found 
in the undergraduate college.
Liaison Officer
President J. C. Warner has 
named Dr. R. E. Parshall as the 
liaison officer to nominate to the 
Danforth Foundation two or not 
to exceed three candidates for 
these 1959 fellowships. These ap
pointments are fundamentally 
a relationship of encouragement 
throughout the years of graduate 
study, carrying a promise of fi
nancial aid within prescribed 
conditions as there may be need.
The maximum annual grant for 
single fellows is $1400 plus tui
tion and fees charged to all grad
uate students; for married fel
lows, $1900 plus tuition and fees 
charged to all graduate students 
with an additional stipend of $350 
for each child. Students with or 
without financial need are invit
ed to apply.
Danforth Fellow
A Danforth Fellow is allowed 
to carry other scholarship ap
pointments, such as Rhodes, Fulbright, Woodrow Wilson, Mar
shall, etc., concurrently with his 
Danforth Fellowship, and appli
cants for these appointments are 
cordially invited to apply at the 
same time for a Danforth Fel
lowship. If a man received the 
Danforth appointment, together 
with a Rhodes Scholarship, Fulbright Scholarship, or Woodrow
Tech Announces Annual Competition 
For Westinghouse Scholarships
President John C. Warner of Carnegie announced the 
opening of the 1959 competition for George Westinghouse 
Scholarships at Carnegie Tech. Ten four-year scholarships 
valued at $4,250 apiece will be awarded to secondary school 
seniors next spring for study in the fields of engineering, sci
ence, and management. ?--------------------------------------------------
The Westinghouse program is
observing its twentieth anniversarj\ It was inaugurated in the fall 
of 1938, sponsored by Westing
house Electric Corporation 
through its Educational Founda
tion. This was one of the first 
scholarship plans for encouraging 
talented young people throughout 
the United States to seek careers 
in technological fields.
Westinghouse Scholars are care
fully selected from over 1,000 ap
plicants each year, and are re
garded with the highest expecta
tions for success. The programs 
graduates through 1958, with an 
average age of only 32 years, have 
recorded a remarkable series of 
achievements in graduate study 
(80 per^ cent have attended),
Wilson Fellowship, he becomes 
a Danforth Fellow without stip
end, until these other relation
ships are completed.
Conference
All Danforth fellows will par
ticipate in the annual Danforth 
Foundation Conference on teach
ing, to be held at Camp Miniwanca in Michigan next Septem
ber, 1959. The qualifications of 
the candidates as listed in the an
nouncement from the foundation 
are: men of outstanding academic 
ability, personality congenial to 
the classroom, and integrity and 
character, including serious injury 
within the Christian tradition.
All applications, including the 
recommendations, must be com
pleted by January 31, 1959. Any 
student wishing further informa
tion should get in touch with our 
liaison officer.
teaching, and employment in in
dustry and government.
The Westinghouse Scholarships 
must be applied toward a Car
negie Tech program leading to a 
Bachelor of Science degree in 
mechanical, electrical, civil, chem
ical, or metallurgical engineering; 
or physics, chemistry, mathema
tics, or industrial management. 
Scholarship recipients are appoint
ed for one year and must qualify 
for reappointment by maintain
ing certain academic standards. No 
additional requirements of em[continued on page 8]
Freshmen Take Traditions Test; 
Attendance Improved Over 57
Last Tuesday, the freshmen of 
1958 were given the opportunity to 
take the Traditions Test in Admin
istration or Engineering Hall.
Of the 860 freshmen it was es
timated that 400 to 500 took the 
test, which was a vast improve
ment over last year when approxi
mately 250 freshmen showed up.
Tests
The tests were monitored by 
Cwens and Scimitars. Scimitar 
chairman Ed Blum changed cer
tain parts of the test, which was 
otherwise the same one which was 
given last year. The awareness 
of this years freshmen, he declar
ed could improve. He cited as an 
example, the fact that about 10 
percent of those who took the test 
wrote that Carnegie Tech would 
be playing the University of Pitts
burgh at Homecoming this year.
Thistles will be given to the five 
persons who made the highest 
scores. The winners will be an
nounced by President Warner on 
Carnegie Day, October 31, during 
Homecoming. {>';
Purposes 
At the meeting which was held 
to evaluate Freshmen Week, the 
question was raised: What is the 
purpose of the traditions test? 
Many freshmen feel the whole 
thing is rather silly, as there are 
no penalties connected with pass
ing or failing the test.
Keep On Your 
Toes With NOQZ
Traditions Test
Some freshmen thought Tech was playing Pitt at homecoming.
When the student body sit 
in class all day, getting numb 
at both ends, be crazy like 
a fox. Keep on your toe* with 
NoDoz. Be alert for late-hour 
studying and hep on late 
dates. Safe as coffee and mach 
more convenient.
NODOZ
Ir Note to Prexy; NoDoz will keep your Focultie0 alert, toe.

!-----------------------------------------------------------------------1
j A PURE WHITE MODERN FILTER
/S ONLY THE BEGINNING OF A WINSTON
I
Its whats up front that counts
Winston puts ite
WINSTON TASTESGOOD LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD /
up front...fine, flavorful 
tobaccos, specially processed 
for. filter smoking
ft. J, REYNOLDS 
TOtACCO CO. 
WINSTOH-SALiM.N.Q
?

---------------------------------------------------

2B3ecLtHWKUSH
'ww&K-w-sfaP
Tuesday, October 7, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
Fullbright Grants 
To Aid Foreign Study
Competitions for 900 Fulbright and Latin-American 
scholarships for graduate study abroad will close November4
 it was announced by the Institute of International Edu
ction. ?-------------------------------------------------
The scholarships offer Amer
icans international travel expenses 
in most cases and partial or com
plete tuition and maintenance for 
study in 39 foreign countries dur
ing 1959-60. The Institute of In
ternational Education is admini
stering the awards for the Depart
ment of State under the Fulbright 
ct and the Inter-American Cultral Convention.
Eligibility 
General eligibility requirements 
for the awards are U.S. citizen
ship, a bacheolrs degree or its 
equivalent before departure, lan
guage ability sufficient to carry on 
the proposed study, and good 
health. A good academic record 
and demonstrated capacity for in
dependent study are also neces-ary. Preference is given to appliants under 35 years of age. 
Countries where U.S. students 
may* study under the Fulbright 
Programs are Argentina, Austra
lia, Austria, Belgium, Burma, 
Chile, the Republic of China, Den
mark, Ecuador, Finland, France, 
Germany, Greece, Iceland, India, 
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, 
the Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Norway, Peru, the Philippines, 
g^urkey, and the United Kingdom.
Participants 
Countries participating in the 
Inter-American Cultural Conven 
tion Program are Bolivia, Brazil, 
Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, 
the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, 
Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Para
guay, Peru, and Venezuela.
Persons interested in these 
awards may write to the Institute 
0t International Education or to 
any of the Institutes regional 
offices (see letterhead) for U.S. 
Government Grants, a brochure 
explaining the Fulbright and 
IACC Programs. Students now en
rolled in colleges or universities 
should consult with their campus 
Fulbright advisor for further in
formation and application forms. 
Requests for application forms 
must be submitted by November 1.
Highlights
[continued from page 5 ]
tween Harpster and Ken Strong 
was won by Strong as N.Y.U. de
feated Tech 27-13, scoring as 
njany points in that one game as 
Tech had allowed in the other 
seven combined.
Exactly ten years later the Tar
tans again produced a great team, 
perhaps their greatest, and this 
one made it to the Sugar Bowl. 
The team finished with a record 
of 7-1, losing only to Notre Dame 
7-0 in a thriller. Many honors 
were bestowed on the Tech team 
of 1938, among which were the 
Lambert Trophy, emblematic of 
Eastern Football Supremacy and 
for Coach William F. Kern Coach 
of the year honors. The Tartans 
met Texas Christian University in 
the Sugar Bowl, and the Hornfrogs led by All-Americans Davey 
OBrien and Ky Aldrich, defeated 
Tech in a bitterly fought game,
15-7.
Highest Scores
The strongest Tartan single 
game offensive took place in 1915, 
when they walloped Waynesburg 
College, 88-0. The same season 
produced the most potent -Tech 
attack for an entire year when 
the team scored 317 points in eight 
games. A 66-0 loss in 1950 to the 
Lehigh Engineers is the worst 
beating a Tech team has ever 
taken. The worst season in the 
Techmans gridiron history was 
the post-war year of 1946, when 
the Tartans were beaten in all six 
games, scoring nary a point while 
yielding 181 to the opponents.
Tech has had one undefeated 
season and it came under Dr. 
Eddie Baker in 1954. The Plaid 
won seven straight games and 
was tied by Lehigh in the final 
game of the season.
Four times the Skibos have 
posted 7-1 records: 1915, 1928,
1938, and 1950.
Carnegies all-time record stands 
at 186 wins, 182 losses, and 24 
ties.
Although many players have 
been mentioned for All-American 
honors, only two have been chosen 
officially. Tackle Lloyd Bull 
Yoder in 1926 and quarterback 
Howard Harpster in 1928.
Another great moment in Tech 
football history came when How
ard Harpster was entered into the 
National Football Hall of Fame in 
October, 1956.
Enter the Tartan
C^oed oft the 'UUeek
Contest
See Your favorite girls picture in 
the Tartan and win an eight by ten 
glossy print of the picture.
ColemanTHiNKUSH
monkey
ENGLISH: false hair-do 
for teen-age girls
[continued from page I]
on discussing the issues. If you 
expect me to spend tomorrow af
ter noon out at the Whitehall 
Shopping Center kissing babies 
and smiling at ladies, youre badly 
mistaken, should be translated, 
according to Dr. Coleman, as I 
?ant be in WhitehallIm due at 
the Monroeville Shopping Center 
at 2:00. A pocket dictionary of 
such statements is then the citi
zens second tool.
The third requirement is a long 
memory as shown by Gov. Harrimans recent statement: I made 
a lot of promises when I was run
ning for Governor in 54. Ive 
checked up on them lately, and I 
i^efy anyone to name one that I 
*idnt keep, when he really 
means: I defy anyone to remem
ber exactly what I promised.
One Ear For Respect
Turning to a more serious tone, 
Dr. Coleman reminded the group 
that a politician is subject to such 
remarks as, Hes looking for a 
soft touch, Hell do anything for 
votes, He talks double-talk. The 
speaker pointed out that since 
ginany voters are so one-partyTninded or unconcerned about facts 
that they lead the vote-seeker to 
use double-talk, platitudes and 
ground-sounding but meaningless 
phrases.
In closing, Dr. Coleman told the 
group to listen to a politician as re
flection of themselves, for he 
shows us at our best and at our 
<$yorst and he will eventually be 
** flood s we expect him to be. 
#
 A. T Co.
Get the genuine article ?
Get the honest taste
of a LUCKY STRIKE
Product of is our mtddUname
ICARNEGS TUO FHL YTLDrY 
.FL oleermrO. amUOoY Le nlPUmr..rY
SPEAK THINKUSH! Put in a good word and MAKE $25!
Heres the easiest way yet to make money! Just put two 
words together to form a new one. Example: slob+lobster= 
SLOBSTER. (English trans: shellfish with bad manners.) 
We ll pay $25 each for the hundreds of Thinklish words 
judged best and we 11 feature many in our college ads. Send 
your Thinklish words (with translations) to Lucky Strike, 
Box 67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Enclose your name, address, 
college or university, and class.
THINKLISH TRANSLATION: Obvi
ously, this poor fellow hasnt heard 
about Luckies. Why? Elementary. 
Any man who smokes the genuine 
article wouldnt touch another 
brand with a ten-foot cigarette 
holder. With Luckies, you get the 
honest taste of fine tobacco. Why 
settle for less? (The man in ques
tion is a Cigamist. Dont let this 
happen to you!)
ENGLISH: hatchery for baby skunks

---------------------------------------------------

Castle
leadership, and personal interviews.
Requests for application forms 
must be received by December 1, 
1958, by the Chairman of Admis
sions, Carnegie Institute of Tech-* 
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pennsyl
vania. Applicants will be requir
ed to take the College Board tests 
on March 14, 1959. ,> )
Announcement of the scholar
ship competition has been made 
in an information packet mailed 
to 15,000 secondary school science 
teachers across the nation, and in 
a brochure sent to 27,000 prin
cipals and school administrators. 
Students of all secondary school 
(public, private, or parochial), are 
eligible to apply.
W estinghouse
[continued from page 6] 
ployment or other obligation is 
imposed on the Scholars.
The scholarships provide full 
tuition of $1000 in each of the 
four years, with an additional $250 
provided in the Freshman year 
only. In addition to these funds, 
students may apply for liberal stu
dent loans after one year.
Eligibility for the Westinghouse 
Scholarships is limited to senior 
secondary school students ranking 
in the top tenth of their graduat
ing class. Winners will be deter
mined by consideration of three 
factors, College Entrance Exami
nation Board tests, high school 
achievements in scholarship and
[continued from page 4] 
massacre of the unfortunate mar
tyrs, and were headed for vari
ous tribal rituals termed beer 
blasts. The fellow whom I had 
previously met accosted me and 
invited me to such a ritual at the 
pit pot, which was obviously a 
den wherein their magic potions 
were concocted and consumed. I, 
wishing to avoid a possible cul-desac, muttered my meagre store of 
incantations and sorcery and 
slipped away to safety.
Such was my first visit to Oak
land, but I shall keep you in
formed of others, which I plan to 
make in the near future.
Is it not possible that we may 
assume the Tech mans burden 
and bring these savages into the 
light of true learning? In hope 
that we may take such a respon
sibility, I am,
Your servant, 
John J. John, Jr.
I am happy to receive Mr. 
John's amusing bit of creative 
writing. However, any person con
versant with 18th century practice 
would realize that this author is 
not addressed Mr., a form reserv
ed for young naval officers and 
lower government employees, but 
simply Blenheim.
JT MEET ME j ^ 
UNDER THE CLOCK
Weekends and the holidays ifi 
are so much more fun in fJP 
New York if you stop at tt 
The Biltmore, traditional favorite * < 
i on every campus in the 
I country! Economical, too.
^ Write to our College Department 
for special student and faculty 
rates and reservations.
Students! 10% Discount
SHIRTS - DRY CLEANING
BEAUTIFULLY FINISHED(Editors note: The cartoon to 
the upper right depicts something 
of what goes on in the Pit. The 
Tartan feels that J.J.J.'s letter de
scribing these activities is an ac
curate picture of what goes on and 
hopes that the Tech community 
will realize the problems which it 
faces in trying to exist in such 
close proximity with such happen
ings.)
^ f **hWom Avwhm at 43rd St., N. Y. 17, N. YiS 
AT GRAND CENTRAL STATION
Other RCAilY HOTELSThe Barclay A Park Lan* Harry M. Anholt, President
HOUR
Owned and Operated by Stan FriedmanCollege 50 
10% DISCOUNT WITH STUDENT ID CARD
THEY SAID IT COULDNT BE DONE - BUT TODAYS L&M GIVES YOU
A hundred points in a 
basketball game by one 
player! They said it 
couldnt be done. But in 
1953,69" Clarence (Bevo) 
Francis, of Ohio's tiny 
Rio Grande College, re
wrote the record books 
with his phenomenal 
scoring feats, including a 
116-point spree in a single 
game. Bevos season to
tal: 1,954 points.
stCkg EIggRI cti tCI VNgGtdg gGI tgGIiB
Change to L*M and get em both. Such an improved filter and more taste! Better 
taste than in any other cigarette. Yes, todays CM combines these two essentials 
of modern smoking enjoymentless tars and more tastein one great cigarette.
!,LTen' ffKjfe
Light into that Live Modern flavor!
*1858 Liccrrr & jMen sHoraaH iHB
r* ftCARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 7, 195ft
