VOL. 44No. 14PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951
Week Shorter School 
Year Promised in '52
Opinion Poll Results Showed That 
Students Want Their Jobs Earlier
Following suggestions from the Undergraduate Advisory Com
mittee, the administrative committee in charge of making the annual 
school calendar has announced the 1951-52 school year will end one 
week sooner than usual. This has been accomplished by making small 
cuts in the Christmas, Easter, and# 
mid-year vacations.
Called in by Dr. Douglas Miner,
Director of Personnel and Student 
Welfare, the TJAC was asked for 
any recommendations from the 
student body which the calendar 
committee might use in making up 
the schedule for the next school 
year.
Get Job Sooner
After conducting a mild sur
vey around campus and obtaining 
the opinion of Student Council on 
the matter, the UAC decided that 
the average student was in favor 
of an earlier date for summer 
recess for one or the other fol
lowing reasons: 1) It would give 
undergraduate students an easier 
chance to obtain summer, employ
ment; 2) It would enable seniors 
to get an earlier start on their 
jobs.
In order to obtain the earlier 
summer recess, which will allow 
most undergraduates to be fin
ished with final exams by June I, 
the UAC suggested that a few 
days be cut from each of the 
Christmas, mid-semester, and 
Easter vacations.
Calendar Not Definite
Before going ahead with the re
vised calendar, members of the 
faculty were carefully considered, 
since excessive pressure would be 
placed on them to turn in grades 
immediately following final exams 
for both semesters.
The calendar is only a tenta
tive arrangement, subject to 
change as further complications 
arise from the impending inter
national situation.
Keep Tab I
Beginning with this issue, 
the TARTAN will publish the 
names of all members of Stu
dent Council who are absent 
from the previous meeting. 
Those who were not in attend
ance last Wednesday are: Har
old Hunt, Al Moore, Fred 
Price, and Emerson Pugh of 
Engineering & Science; Rich
ard Barr and Elvira Loreski 
of Fine Arts: Gertrude Al
bright and Shirlee Ploeger of 
Margaret Morrison.
Wiseman Receives Pash Award
Outstanding Player Of The Year
Wiseman Awarded 
Joe Pash Trophy
Presentation Made At CFP Formal;
Senior Lineman Voted Best By Team
At last Saturdays Council of Fraternity Presidents formal dance 
held in the Schenley Hotel ballroom, Floyd Wiseman was awarded the 
Joe Pash Memorial Trophy, significant of outstanding participation in, 
and contribution to, Carnegie Tech football.
Wiseman, a senior in the Indus-*~~~Registration 
Time Cut;
No IBM Fuss
Fillin Out Order Card 
Is Only Student Chore
Carnegie students will no longer
Sorority Rush 
Begins Soon
Social Events To Open 
Greeks Member Drive
All upperclass women interest
ed in spring rushing are invited to 
attend a sorority orientation 
meeting on January 23, 11:30 a.m., 
in Wreck Hall, 4th floor, MMCC. 
Jane Connor, Panhellenic presi
dent, will acquaint the group with 
rushing procedures.
Non-sorority womgn will be able 
to become better acquainted with 
the members of the seven sorori
ties at the open house sponsored by 
the Panhellenic Association Feb
ruary 10 and 11. Between 1:00 p.m. 
and 1:30 p.m. all women interested 
in joining a sorority will meet in 
the lounge of the Carnegie Union.
The women will be escorted in 
groups by members of the Pan
hellenic Association to fraternity 
houses where they will meet the 
various sororities. The open house 
should be attended on both days 
to meet all of the sororities.
Formal rushing begins the day 
of the last open house, February 
11, and continues until February 
27. There is to be no social contact 
between sorority members and 
rushees between the hours of 7:00 
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. during the for
mal rushing period except at 
IContinued on page 91
a pleasant relief to those con
nected with Scotch n Soda. The 
desirability of the site will make 
it possible to go all out in pro
ducing the nationally famous mu
sical revue.
Schenley High School Auditorium
New Setting For Scotch And Soda 
* * *
Schenley High Will Be Setting 
For 51 Scotch n Soda Show
Spring Carnival Prelude Guarantees Better 
Vision, Accoustics, And Atmosphere There
Scotch n Soda cleared a major obstacle in its path with the an
nouncement that its 1951 production would be held in Schenley high 
school auditorium. The show will run for three nights at the new 
site as a prelude to Spring Carnival.
Scotch n Soda will not be the#--------------------------------------------------*
first outside organization to use 
the Schenley High School site. It 
has been used for many years by 
the Pittsburgh Savoyards, a pro
fessional group which stages Gil
bert and Sullivan Operettas. The 
auditorium is also used by the 
Pittsburgh Symphony and some 35 
other outside groups.
Gym Hurt Show 
The news of this change will 
come as a pleasant surprise to 
those who witnessed last years 
show at the Gym. Aside from 
convenience the gym offered poor 
vision, worse accoustics, and a 
locker room aroma. These detri
ments all but ruined an otherwise 
good show.
The Schenley high school site, 
however, leaves little to be de
sired. It has perfect accoustics and 
faultless vision from any seat.
The auditorium comfortably holds 
1,500 people on leather uphol
stered theatre chairs.
Eliminates Problems 
From a technical standpoint the 
auditorium is about the best to be 
had in the Tri-State area. It has 
liberal stage area which can be 
extended by the simple addition 
of an apron to the front of the 
stage. The existance of footlights 
and other lighting installations 
eliminates a tricky cost and tech
nical problem which has both
ered the organization for the past 
few years.
Needless to say the acquisition 
of the Schenley spot has come as
trial Management Department and 
a member of Sigma Nu Fraternity, 
became the fourth gridder to re
ceive the award in its five-year 
history. It marked a climax to a 
brilliant four-year gridiron career 
for the personable Wiseman.
Players Vote 
The award is presented annu
ally by the Phi Kappa Fraternity 
in memory of Joe Pash, a former 
CIT football player and member 
of Phi Kappa, who was killed in 
World War II. The members of have to complain a >out tired feet 
the football team selected Wise- or writers cramps incurred during 
man as the player that was most, registration. A new, time-saving 
responsible for Carnegies gridiron . . ,. , , ,registration procedure has beensuccess in 1950. !
Wiseman, who played first team , announced by the registrar, 
guard at Carnegie for four con- ' whereby students do not have to 
secutive years, began his football secure and fill out IBM cards, 
career at Turtle Creek High J 
School, where he earned a junior i
vaisity lettei. | their respective departments. At
Always on First Team j the time schedule cards are maae
Two years of varsity football at ' out, students will be given a regMonessen High School followed istrars card, a fee card, and an orfor the man who never played der card. All of these cards are to 
anything but first team through- be filled out completely, 
out his football career. While at
Monessen, his team won 16 of the j ^ are^u*
20 games played and he found it I Particular care should be taken 
an exceedingly difficult change in ! in filling out the order card. On 
playing for the winless Tartans of ] this card the student must list the 
1947. j exact courses which he intends to
In his four years at Carnegie, take. Furthermore, the card will 
however, the Skibos were trans- not be considered complete unless 
formed from a losing team to a both the course number and secwinner, and Wiseman himself is 
[Continued on page 5]
As in the past, students will artion letter are given. (All courses 
taken in the evening carry the sec
tion letter t). Also required on this 
card will be the number of units 
attached to each course.
Having filled out these three 
cards, the student may proceed to 
the cashiers desk in the gymna
sium, pay his fee, and receive his 
registration card. 
Time Saver
Since students will have no class
The last meeting of Student Council was highlighted by Don admission cards under this new 
Cullers resignation and the decision on the date of the installation of system, any adding or dropping of 
new Council members. ' | courses, or any section changes
In a short direct letter to Council, Culler explained that due to a^e.r regulation must be reportCuller Resigns From Council 
Due To Spring Carnival Work
Officers And Members Installation Jan. 24, 
Group Still Hampered By Low Attendance
the great amount of time neces
sary in connection with his work 
as Chairman of Spring Carnival, 
he felt that he would be unable 
to devote sufficient time to Coun
cil to adequately fulfill his du
ties and therefore asked Council 
to accept his resignation. It was 
accepted unanimously.
Installation Soon 
The question of the exact date 
of installation of new Council 
members and the elections of new 
officers was brought up.
| ed immediately. Proper forms to
bined meeting of the new and old ! out for such changes
members. should be obtained from the stuT ... . dents department head or advisor.Low Attendance T * i. t-. T3- i i In the case of a change in section.Don Bickelman presented the
constitution of the Film Arts So
ciety for the approval of Council.
Christopher informed Council that 
APQ could have the results by 
Wednesday, January 17, the day 
following the elections.
Council felt, however, that it 
would be too big a rush to install 
the new members on that date. 
A motion was carried to hold the 
installations and elections of new
This society, which intends to 
present selected motion pictures 
at eight or nine programs during 
the spring semester, will sell mem
berships to cover the cost of the 
films. The constitution was unanArt [ imously approved by Council.
i the student must also secure his 
grade card from the' original in
structor and give it to the new 
section instructor.
If students will cooperate fully 
with this new procedure, it is be
lieved that a great deal of time 
and trouble will be averted.
Once again the meeting gi 
Council was called to order with
out a quorum present. With the 
addition of quite a few late-comers, however, a quorum was 
reached. Several of the student 
body's elected representatives to 
the Student Government Organ
ization of the schooi failed to arVoting Changed
The date of the coming elec
tion for Student Council repre
sentatives has been changed 
from Tuesday, January 16, lo 
Thursday, January 18.
officers one week later at a com- \ rive.

---------------------------------------------------

Pase 2TAWA !\
Editorials
What Next?
It was just two short years ago that the Carnegie Seottie, 
forerunner to the present Scot, heaved its final breath and 
went out of existence. It climaxed a short, but spirited battle 
by the humor magazines staff to escape censorship by a com
mittee from Student Council, ending up with the entire staff 
resigning.
And while the condition of the Scot hasnt reached the 
critical stage, it appears that its editorial staff is on the ad
ministrations carpet for material which appeared in the 
Christmas issue. Apparently trying to prevent the magazines 
past action from snowballing into anything worse, the publi
cations advisory committee has issued a stern directive of 
self-imposed censorship to the staff.
While we were unable to get the staff to release just what 
would be the tone of the next issue of the Scot, we sincerely hope 
that it is not setting the standards of other college magazines as its 
goal. Weve often heard the comment around campus that the 
Scot is mild compared to such magazines as the Cornell Widow, 
Ohio State Sun Dial, and others. This could probably be best 
answered by saying that Carnegie Tech considers its students just 
that much above the character of other colleges.
Lets hope that outsiders opinion of Carnegie Tech can 
stay the same way! Next to the impression created by Car
negie graduates, the conduct and product of campus activities 
is the best way for people to evaluate our school.
Time For An Answer
With Student Council campaigning and elections being of 
paramount interest to many students at this time of the year, 
we cannot help but wonder, after attempting to review just 
what council has done this past semester, Why a Student 
Council?
Two years ago. the hue and cry was that Student Council 
wasnt doing ALL that it could to further the students best in
terests. Now isteems more appropriate to wonder if Students 
Council is doing ANYTHING to help the students.
in its weekly reporting of Councils activities, the Tartan j 
has found that interest of most Council members has been , 
non-existant. While the representative body of the students ; 
apportions more than $40,000 to various student activities, its ' 
interest in these organiations ends with the handing out of, 
money.
Attendance of Council members in the past has been so 
poor that it is not a rare occasion on which all official busi-! 
ness has had to be postponed because of the lack of a quorum. ; 
The impending question seems to be: How can Council mem
bership be restricted to interested students?
One suggestion that has often been made in the past is to 
reduce the size of Council. The present constitution calls for one 
per cent representation from the students. This provides a very 
unwieldly group, and one which is very difficult to get together 
for regular meetings. While membership in Council is an honor 
and confers certain prestige upon both individuals and whatever 
organization they may represent, the primary purpose of any 
student government organization is to advance general student 
welfare.
Another suggestion is to ban or get the collective fraterni
ties to realize the value of dissolving the fraternity political 
combine machine, known as the Interfraternity Action Com
mittee. The results of this organization over a period of years 
has been to decrease the interest of minority groups and in
dependent candidates in running for Council, and to play-up 
the reward function of Council membership.
Irregardless of what steps they may deem necessary to 
take, it appears that Council has come to the point where it 
owes it to the student body to prove why Student Council is a ! 
necessary activity on Carnegie Techs campus.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951
H
f
NAUGHTY! NAUGHTY!
Think It Over
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street. Pittsburgh 13. Ha.TELEPHONE: SChenley 1-4557; after hours. MUseum 1-5255: for advertising and
subscriptions. MU 1-7434, MU 1-4076Published weekly during the school year, except holidays ana examination periods, 
Oy the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13. Pennsylvania.
...................................................................................................Paul V Oflermann
Business Manager ................................................................................................. Morty H. Baker
Managing Editor ......................................................................................................^,oy^ Dy?IPersonnel Manager .................... .............. ..........................J Mangold
News Editor Nancy Sitler. Sports Editor Fred Lunt. Make-up EditorAl Bader. 
Copy EditorFred Sonnenbejg. f eatures EditorDolore* Mitchell. Assistant Busi
ness ManagerBud Smith. Advertising ManagerDavid Goldsmith. Circulation 
ManagerAl Selz Photography EditorDick Gilson. Proof EditorJohn Tanciil 
Assistant Sports FditorArt Christopher
t'hiet ReportersShirlee Ploegei, Jane Robb Personnel Assistant -Dick Woods 
ReportersEstelle Herlick, Marilyn Sweeney. Rosemary Serafinf. Sports Staff 
Joan Cummerton. Justin Davidson. A) Moore, Larry Sumnoerill. Aflt StaffHenry 
Carlsen, Carroll Grantz, Ken Ferguson, ^)uane Quintal, Jerry Weiwvian. Make-up 
staff Bea Pollack. Dick Kendrick. Proof taffRobert Brown. Feature StaffDick 
Ahlstrom, Harvey Katz. Photography StaffDavid Goldsmith Martin Snyderman, 
Jun Walker. Headline StaffVince Ribas. Copy StaffJeanne Shutrump, Pat Miller, 
t nb ReporterAnn Parker. Julie Cosentino. Jane Dowling, Bill Smith, Bob MeQuad. 
Dick Dwrstine, Larry Giavin. Joan Webb. Advertising StaffAnne Philhower, Jerry 
Seiner, Marilyn Seiner. John Stroble em ulation Staff- Barry Innerfield, Don 
Weaver. SecretaryEleanor Doniger. TypistJoan Novak, Mildred Thompson, 
Posfy Price, Anita Makrauer.
Entered a& second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907, at the Post Office at Pitbburgl^ 
Pa undei the Act of March :j. 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of 
FolwF piovided ioi m the Act of February 28. 1*5 Authorized October 21. 191.
  k v V ! 1
by Richard
Well start this week where we 
rested last week, on the garbage 
truck. Some folk might think 
these experiences irrelevant to 
the training received in the ROTC 
but upon close investigation, many 
applications of sound principles 
will be observed.
I liked the garbage detail when 
I first received it. Out in the sun
shine all day with just enough ex
ercise so that I slept well nights 
and with a constructive military 
occupation at last; that of keeping 
things neat and clean and of keep
ing disease away from the bar
racks door. But after a while four 
or five of the boys on the detail 
were transferred to other jobs and 
we really had to work. Id never 
worked before and I wondered, 
Why start now?
Never Volunteer
It is a primary rule in the serv
ice that one never volunteers. The 
reason for this is that once a man 
volunteers he is a marked man, 
a man willing to work, and if hes 
willing theres no-one in the serv
ice who will stand in his way; 
fact is, theyll do all they can to 
help the volunteer stay busy. So, 
w7hen I heard that the upper 
echelons were looking for a print
er, I didnt volunteer, I simply 
found a likely suspect in the 
echelon and started discussing 
subjects pertinent to the printing 
field. He caught wise and realizA. Ahlstrom
ing that he had a genius on his 
hands, passed the word and soon 
I was before the lieutenant again. 
I played non-commital, even cold 
: to his suggestion that I should be a 
printer. In fact, I appeared to dis
like the assignment so much that 
I was soon installed in my own lit
tle shop far from everyone but the 
plumber and the seamstress, who 
also had little shops all to them
selves. The seamstress was a civil
ian, and the plumber was a soldier 
who wished he were a civilian.
Then Came Inspection
It was a pleasant little shop, just 
big enough for me and my little 
printing press, and the time passed 
pleasantly. It might be of interest 
to note here that at this period I 
was classified as a typist as the 
TO. (Table of Organization) had 
no provision for a printer. Yes, the 
time passed very pleasantly, but I 
shall never forget the morning the 
colonel inspected my shop more 
thoroughly than usual. It had been 
an easy week and so I had plenty 
of time to clean my shop extra 
well. The colonel usually inspect
ed every week, but as it was a 
work shop his inspection consist
ed of entering the shop, looking 
around, and walking out. But this 
morning everything looked so 
neat, I imagine that I inspired 
; him to further inspection. For the 
first time he opened the cabinet 
i door. All was neatness, but then 
[Continued on page 8]
OI8TRIBUTED BY VAC
Yes, hes a tine pet. He'll eat any thins and he's especially fond 
of children.'
fefl
By Dolly Mitchell 
A NU MONK . . . Sigma Nu fra-$ 
ternity has just pledged its 43rd 
membera monkey. The boys 
have not let their dog mascot, Rip
per, see the monkey yet for fear 
the two wouldnt be compatible. 
ULCER. ROAD . . . The book 
marker from the Book Store, read
ing, Success Without Ulcers, has 
been given a treatment by an Ad
ministration Hall office staff. They 
cut the sign and taped it together 
to read, Ulcers Without Success. 
Would a psychoanalysist interpret 
this as revealing occupational 
neurosis?
OFFICIAL BUSINESS . . . Since 
President Warner has been ap
pointed to a 12 man committee of 
the National Security Resources 
Board, he travels each week to 
Washington, D. C., to work on the 
problems faced by this Scientific 
Manpower Advisory Committee. 
THE BUGLE CALLS . . . The mil- # 
itary meeting of all male students 
at Tech today should give jittery 
engineers a clearer picture of the 
draft situation. Lets hope it does. 
POST SCRIPTS . . . One candidate 
for Student Council may be per
turbed when he sees what a prac
tical joker post scribed on his sign 
by Skibo which says, WANTED. 
Some wit wrote in pencil, dead 
or alive25 cents reward. 
SUMMER SCHOOL? . . . Dont be 
surprised if this college institutes 
a three semester schedule. Be
cause of the national emergency, 
colleges have been considering this 
move.
FOR THE OUT-DOOR . . . Are
you the out-door type? If you are, 
here is what you have been lopking for, an outing club. Dick Woods 
is lining up names of people in
terested in taking skiing, hiking, 
and other outing trips. If this club 
begins operating, no doubt Car
negie will have well-developed 
student specimens.
BLISTERING SITUATION . . . 
Intramural players often sustain 
injuries from the vigorous playing 
involved in these highly com
petitive sports. The latest casualty 
is one Bill Dorn who accumulated 
several blisters on soles of his feet 
from playing intramural basket
ball last week.
PICTURES . . . Have you seen the 
new addition to Skibos picture 
gallery. It is a picture of a church. 
Wha happened to the modern art? 
THAT SINKING FEELING . . . 
The University of Oklahoma re
ports that uncertain conditions in 
the world have resulted in low 
grades on their campus. Fortysix per cent of the students came 
through mid-semesters with 
grades of D or F.
BOOK REVIEW . . . Last Friday - 
the Post Gazette published a re
view of a book by the late Presi
dent Dougherty, Education for 
Professional Development, by
lined by Tony Antin. Students can 
obtain this book at the book store 
for the cut-rate price of 50 cents. 
SPEAKA DA ANGLISH . . A 
University of Texas student was 
skeptical about a British film 
showing in town. He asked the 
ticket seller, Is it any good? She 
answered, Its a British film, but ' 
the actors speak English.
MARY WOULDLIKE
TO THANK THE BOYS
FROM E WINGFOR
HER NICE CHRISTMAS
GIFT.
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS. APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA 1-4*11
Bring Tour Radio Problems 
To Us
U YEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service

---------------------------------------------------

TAM4NTUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951
REGE CORDIC SHOWS WHAT A KILTIE GOES THROUGH
Kilties elect Rege Cordic, WWSWs early morning: January 19. Pictures showing Rege getting dressed appear on the Pitt Parade. Tickets for the Winter
MC, Best-dressed Man in Kilts in honor of the forth- prove what a problem a Kiltie bandsman faces prior to Concert are 75 cents for adults and 50 cents for sti> 
coming Kiltie Symphonic Band Concert, Carnegie Hall, curtain call. WDTV, covered this event, and it will dents and are available from Kiltie Band mernb# -s.
Current Play Features 
Make-up, Costumes
In the Drama Departments current production, The Madwoman 
of Chaillot, the spectator will be in for a rare treat; for he will not 
only see a great play, but witness ingenious make-ups and costumes. 
Joe Jennings has prepared the extremely colorful, exciting, and
unusual make-up and costumes < 
that play such an important part 
in this French-translation com
edy. Jennings hails from Arkan
sas but has spent most of his life 
in California employed by MetroGoldwyn-Mayer. You may re
member him as Mr. Thorkelson 
in I Remember Mama.
Different Procedure 
Joe describes the play as a mad, 
mad conglomeration of periods 
and styles and had to keep this 
in mind while designing the cos
tumes, which should be the most 
striking to be seen this year. The 
usual procedure as far as make
up is concerned is to let the actor 
work it out for himself with per
haps suggestions from the di
rector. But in this play, that is 
certainly not the case.
The madw omen in the play 
(there are more than one) all went 
mad at a certain period of their 
lives and retained the clothes, cus
toms, and styles of that period.
However, as seen in the play, they 
are all elderly but are still trying 
desperately to look as they did 
50 or 60 years ago. As a result 
the actors have to don elaborate 
and difficult make-ups each even
ing.
Bizarre Make-Ups
Jennings, by use of plaster 
masks molded from the actors 
faces, is making it easier by con
structing false noses, wigs, and 
beards on these molds to fit the 
contour of the actors face.
The actor usually tries to make 
his make-up as natural as he can 
possibly get it to fit his or her 
character. However, the make-up 
of a mentally demented, elderly 
woman who has visions of youth 
presents a problem, especially in 
coloring. The shadowy lines, and 
shadings are all exaggerated; as a 
result the spectator will see some 
pretty bizarre make-ups.
FATHER & SON
Shoes
MEN'S . . . BOY'S
1723 MURRAY AVENUE PITTSBURGH, PA.
(Near Forbes St.)
Save Time And Trouble
Use A
Rubber Stamp
for
? Signatures
? Addressing
? Laundry Marking
ONE DAY SERVICE 
call
Jas. H. Matthews & Co.
MUseum 1-8500
3942 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Penna.
Page -3
Fraternity Sing To Be Held 
March 9th In Carnegie Hall
Each Fraternity Will Sing Three Numbers ; 
Greek Swing To Be Held In Syria Mosque
Sorority and fraternity sing practice are well under way, although 
Sing will not be held until March 9. As in the past years, it will be 
held in the Carnegie Music Hall, but the site for Swing on the fol
lowing evening has been changed to the Syria Mosque.
Sing and Swing co-chairmen, ?-
Peggy Duff and Ralph Snyder, 
have not as yet disclosed the band 
for Saturday evening, but they 
have scheduled a practice in the 
Carnegie Music Hall on Wednes
day, March 7, between 6:30-11:00 
p.m.
Time Limit
Each group is required to sing 
three songsa fraternity song, a 
song selected from a prepared list, 
and an optional song that will em
phasize a strong point of the 
group.
Each group must complete its 
program of three songs in eight 
minutes from the first note of the 
first song to the last note of the 
last song. Any group violating the 
requirement will be disqualified.
In order to be eligible for par
ticipation on a sing team as a 
singer or director, a person must 
be either an active member, a 
pledge, a social member as of 
October 16, 1950, or a graduate 
student member of the group he 
[Continued on page 8]
Cleaning Up The Scot
Staff Works To Improve Magazine
Scot Draws Criticism 
For Christmas Issue
St. Valentine s Day and the frustrations of the registration line 
will be the theme of the next issue of the Scot, campus humor maga
zine. However, the unfavorable reactions of the administration to the 
Christmas number will probably mean that this issue, to be dis
tributed during registration, will< 
be milder than those previous.
The last issue had been on the 
stands only two hours when Jim 
Alemany, editor of the magazine, 
was called to Dean Dickinsons 
office. He was told that Dr. Miner 
and Dr. Warner objected to the 
issue on the grounds that it pro
vided poor advertising for Car
negie Tech.
No Mailing
These officials had considered 
taking the issue off the stands, 
but this radical action was not 
taken. However, it was decided to 
ban the mailing of the magazine 
to all off-campus subscribers.
Shortly afterward a meeting of j 
the Publications Advisory Board, j 
consisting of Dean E>ickinson, Don 
Culler, and Art Christopher, was 
called with three members of the i 
Scot staffJim Alemany, Frank 
Stitt, and Justin Davidson. They 
were warned that there could be 
no more issues like the last.
The Scot had been warned pre
viously about the type of jokes 
used, but at this meeting strong 
objections were also directed to
ward the cartoons in the maga
zine. The staff was asked to use 
a method of voluntary censorship 
on this coming issue.
Three Possibilities
Another issue like the last, it 
was pointed out, would mean (1) 
the replacement of the editor and 
business manager, (2) school cen
sorship, or (3) the removal of the 
magazine from the campus.
The coming issue will feature a 
story on the registration line by 
Dick Dimon with a cartoon ser
ies on the same subject by 
Frank Perry and Ken Fersupon, 
Other articles will include Diane 
McFarlands rebuttal to the story 
on modern women in the last issue 
and a description of Scottish High
land games by Mrs. Goodfellow of 
the English department.
Senior Women
All senior women are urged 
to attend an important meet
ing on Tuesday, January 23 
at 11:30 a.m. in the Margaret 
Morrison Assembly Hall. The 
topic will be The American 
Association of University 
WomenWhat it is; What it 
does! The A.A.U.W. offers an 
opportunity to .loin with col
lege students in making edu
cation a more dynamic influ
ence in American life. Mrs. 
Charles Manwiller, president 
of the Pittsbucgh A.A.U.W. 
branch will be the speaker.
Record Dance 
Planned After 
W & J Game
On The Air
The Mens Glee Club will 
give a half hour program on 
station WCAE Saturday, Jan
uary 20, at 10:00 p. m,
Dorm Council Wants
Sunday Night Co-Ed 
Television In Lounge
An all school record dance will 
be held Saturday night after the 
W&J game, according to plans 
made by Dorm Council at its meet
ing last week. There will be no 
admission charge. Among other 
topics discussed was the possibil
ity of Sunday television in Car
negie Inn. Permission for DC to 
open the lounge on such days is 
now awaiting official approval.
At Councils request, Claymore 
Clan has agreed to investigate the 
sponsorship, at minimum cost, of 
a breakfast for dorm men at the 
Inn following the Spring Carnival 
formal.
In Memorandum
The gathering voted to place one 
or more books in the CIT library 
in memory of the late Dr. Doherty. 
It was suggested that the gift be 
related to education or to art, the 
former presidents pet avocation.
Despite an estimated 40 per cent 
of dorm men believed interested 
in playing intramural sports on 
dormitory teams, response thus far 
has been luekwarm. Therefore DC 
has chosen to relax its sports pro
gram until spring, when the for
mation of intramural teams will 
again be attempted.
Bagpiper Out
Almost on its last leg is the 
Dorm Bagpiper, semi-occasional 
publication of the dormitories, 
which after two issues has given 
up the ghost temporarily. Lack of 
help in preparing the paper was 
given as reason for its abandon
ment. A resurrection will be at
tempted next semester.
Aiming for increased extracur
ricular activity among dorm men, 
Council plans to back full-scale 
participation in Spring Carnival. 
Volunteers to aid in construction 
of decorations, booth, and pushmobiles are being sought from 
dorm residents. DC has requested 
that anyone interested contact his 
dorm president.

---------------------------------------------------

Whether the comments set forth in this column last 
week in regard to the Carnegie Tech basketball team were 
in any way responsible for the teams improved play against 
Pitt is relatively unimportant. What is important, however, 
is the fact that coach Mel Cratsleys Tartan floormen played 
the type of basketball that everyone thought them capable 
of playing. The abrupt change in performance can be at
tributed largedly to the conversion from individuality to 
teamwork on the part of the players.
At the time of publication of this column last week, we 
were in complete agreement with the writer in his criticism 
of the CIT floor team. There was some question whether such 
a blast might have an adverse effect on the team. For
tunately, the opposite was the case. Furthermore, it is ex
pected that continued improvement on the part of the team 
will be forthcoming. With several very strong opponents 
still to be met, the team cant afford to rest on its laurels. 
Probably the most noticeable individual change was in the 
play of Tom Craig. The rugged forward from East McKeesport 
showed signs of returning to his noteworthy play of last year, 
both against Pitt and in Saturdays fracas at Allegheny. Craig, 
who possesses all the basketball ability to be desired, was pre
viously trying to win the game by itself. By himself he will be 
a dismal failure but, through team play, he can attain brilli
ance as a CIT floor player. It is encouraging that he has begun 
to follow the latter principle.
The performance of Hilary Holste in the Pitt game was 
truly great. Not only was the rangy pivot man high scorer 
for the evening but he also maintained control of both 
boards with his flawless rebounding and played his best allaround floor game He removed beyond question any doubt 
as to his capabilities as a basketball player. Certainly his 
injury at Allegheny, which will keep him out of action for 
an undetermined length of time, is a severe blow to the 
team.
Despite all the talk about a winning team, certainly no one 
expects the Tartans to win em all, particularly considering 
the tough teams still to be played. However, it is possible 
for a team to look good even though it finishes on the short 
end of the score. As long as a team functions as a unit and 
plays to the best of its capabilities there can be no opportunity 
for complaint. If such is the case with the Carnegie five from 
here on out, there will definitely be no further criticism.
Floor Schedule
Clarence (Buddy) Overend, Di
rector of Intercollegiate Athletics 
at Carnegie, has announced that 
the scheduled basketball games 
with Gettysburg on February 1 
and Dickinson on February 2 will 
be played.
Because of the cancellation of 
semester vacation and the sched
uling of final examinations on 
these dates it was at first feared 
that these two games would have 
to be dropped. However, the ex
ecutive committee of the school 
has arranged speeial exams for 
the players.
Plaid Faces W& J 
And Geneva Fives
Covies And Once Beaten Prexies 
Will Provide Stronger Opposition
With victories over Pitt and Allegheny to show for last weeks 
play, the inconsistent Carnegie cagers await coming clashes with 
Washington & Jefferson and Geneva this week. Tomorrow night the 
Tartans travel to Beaver Falls for their contest against Geneva and
return home to play host to a 
strong Wash-Jeff squad Saturday
HOLSTE SCORES AGAINST PITT
Hilary Holste, pivot man on Coach Mel Cratsleys improving 
Tartan floor team, is pictured above as he sank a push shot against 
the Pitt Panthers in last Wednesdays battle in Skibo gym. Holste 
played his best game of the season in the 66-42 rout of the Panthers, 
notching a total of seventeen points and maintaining control of both 
backboards. George Hromanik of Pitt vainly tries to stop Holstes 
shot.
Merman Meet 
First Defeat 
At Allegheny
The Tartan mermen dropped 
their first decision of the present 
campaign when they traveled to 
Allegheny last Saturday. Claude 
Sofields natators copped only two 
first places while absorbing a 42- 
24 loss.
Tomorrow the squad will try to 
get back in winning stride when 
it meets a highly rated team from 
Westminster. The Titans are paced 
by John Wallace, a free style art
ist. In their last meet, the West
minster aggregation swamped 
Grove City, Saturdays opponent, 
by a 47-19 score.
Demas CITs Answer
CITs answer to Wallace will be 
Captain Nick Demas who won the 
100 yard free style event against 
Allegheny. A1 Macy took first 
honors in the 440 free style and 
third in the 200 yard free style 
against the Gators.
Reggie Wilson Jr. was the 
standout for Allegheny as he set 
a new pool record for the 200 yard 
backstroke. He covered the course 
in 2:36.9 to establish the mark. 
Hearn, Schenk, Wilson, and Ertle 
also took first place in their events.
Relay Teams Beater
Skibo relay teams were also 
beaten by the Gators. The time 
for the 300 yard medley relay was 
3:51.1 and for the 400 yard relay, 
3:57.
Other men to place for the Tar
tans were Dick Kramer, second in 
the 200 yard free style; Tom Astle, 
second in the 60 yard free style; 
Sapper, second in the 200 yard 
breaststroke; Houston, second in 
the 440 free style, and Bob Wed
dell, third in the 200 yard back
stroke.
Tartans Smother Pitt 
With 66-42 Victory
Skibos Run Wild In Stunning Upset
As Everyone Plays Heads Up Ball
In an exciting game played last Wednesday evening at the Skibo 
gym, the Tartans of CIT notched their fourth win of the current cam
paign as they downed a favored Pitt five by a score of 66-42.
Sparked by Hilary Holste, who scored 17 points, the Tartans
----------------------------------------------------?maintained control of both boards
during almost the entire game.Table Tennis 
Schedule Lags
Kappa Sig Domimites 
Skibo League Play
Intramural table tennis compe
tition remained well behind sched
ule last week, with only four of the 
slated eight matches being played. 
Since the season began only seven 
of sixteen scheduled matches have 
been completed.,
Kappa Sigma continued to dom
inate play in the Skibo League by 
downing the Phi Kaps by a 3-1 
margin. It was the second consecu
tive win for the Clyde Street ag
gregation.
In the only other Skibo League 
game played, the Phi Kaps down
ed Theta Xi, 3-2, in a bitterly con
tested match. Each team copped 
two single matches, but the win
ners doubles team proved too 
much for TX.
In Scot League play, Tau Delta 
Phi took the measure of the Raid
ers by a 3-1 count, while the Beta 
Sigs experienced their second 3-0 
defeat of the season, this one to 
Beta Theta Pi.
Tall, rangy Holste was able to 
work extremely well under the 
boards, also accounting for sev
eral of his points by pivot shots 
from the keyhole.
Idea Backfired
When the Skibos. were unable 
to set up Holste in the center, it 
was either Craig or Beck who con
sistently cut up through the cen
ter to take the pass for a lay-up 
shot. Craig and Farbacher each 
accounted for nine points apiece, 
while Beck chipped in with eight 
points.
Pitts genial coach, Doc Carlson, 
tried some fancy strategy by not 
starting his first string, but rather 
opening with his second stringers 
in an effort to tire the Tartan de
fenders. The plan backfired, how
ever, because the Tartans refused 
to tire. Instead, they started click
ing with their own shots; and 
when the Pitt first string came in 
after four minutes of play, the 
Tartans soon pulled away from the 
Pittmen.
Slaughter Begins
At the halftime the score was 
34-23 with the Skibos on the long 
end of the tally. The third quar
ter saw the game develop into a 
real slaughter as the Tartans 
scored on all but four of their 
LContinued on page 5i
Citation For Baker
Dr. Edward B. Baker, head 
football coach at Carnegie Tech, 
will receive the Junior Chamber 
of Commerce merit award for his 
contribution to Pittsburgh com
munity life in the field of sports. 
The award will be made at a 
Chamber dinner this evening in 
Hotel William Penn.
Dr. Baker was selected as the 
communitys foremost sports per
sonality for directing his foot
ball team to one of its most suc
cessful seasons.
Although they liave played only 
mediocre ball this season, coach 
Aultmans Geneva Covies 
have a reputation for giant kill
ing and should provide the Plaid 
with some rough competition. 
They demonstrated this trait re
cently when they upset a heavily 
favored Pitt five.
Sparkplug of the Covies this 
is A1 Vlasic, 6' 3" center. This 
broke five Covelast year. His rec36 points against Gannon was 
the highlight of a season in which 
scored one-fourth of his teams 
total points.
All six of the Geneva players 
who topped 100 points last year 
are back again. They are Vlasic 
(461), Lloyd Cable (233), Tom 
(148), John Galagaza 
(145), A1 Mudry (138), and Walt 
Dwyer (132).
Since the series began in 1907, 
Covies have been successful 
contests while the Plaid 
won 27. Last year the Tar
tans managed to squeeze out a 
45-44 victory.
Out to better their 16-5 record 
of last year, Coach Adam Sanders 
Red and Black of W&J provide 
potentially the greatest threat to 
the Skibos this week. The Presi
dents have lost but a single game, 
that an upset to Waynesburg.
The Prexies own victories over 
such collegiate hardwood foes as 
Buffalo, Akron, Ohio Wesleyan, 
Thiel, Penn State, Arizona State, 
Bethany, and Geneva. In addition 
they have downed two crack 
semi-pro teams, the Wheeling 
Blues and Akron Goodyear.
The outstanding performer on 
Sanders squad this year is co
captain Andy Mestrovic, a senior 
from Benwood, West Virginia. A 
jump-shot artist, Mestrovic ac
counted for 89 points in the first 
five starts.
This is the seventeenth season 
of games between the two quin
tets with W&J winning 16 con
tests and CIT 9. In last years 
clash the Prexies drubbed theSkibos 69-44.
THE ROVING ROUNDTABLE
A Non-Sectarian Forum 
SUNDAYS at 10:00 A. M. in the
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
OF PITTSBURGH
Chairman: MRS. VINCENT BOUCEK 
Ellsworth & Morewood Aves. Via 75 Car
Only 2 blocks from 64, 66, 67, 68, 69, 73. 76 and 71 cars 
Morewood Avenue
Announcing Six Sunday 10:00 A. M. Discussions of
ITS YOUR ATOM!!
YOU own the atomthe atom puts to YOU questions 
that reach far beyond even todays scare headlines. To 
help citizens think these questions through, the Round
table is continuing this series from Jan. 21Feb. 11,1951.
 William Ray  James E. Dougherty
 William J. Ruano  Dr. Norman Dawes
four experts to help you determine whether youll 
benefitor suffer from YOUR atom! You are invited 
no charge (optional contribution).
Call MAyflower 1-8008 for Further Details
Fage 4TUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951 ^

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Rifle Team 
Loses Season Opener
t TUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951
FLOYD WISEMAN
CARNEGIES OUTSTANDING FOOTBALL 
PLAYER AND WINNER OF THE JOE 
PASH MEMORIAL TROPHY FOR THE 
YEAR I9SO. WISEMAN RANKS AS ONE 
OF THE BEST LINE MAN EVER TO WEAR 
THE PL AID BEING AN EXCELLENT BLOC 
KER AND AN EVEN BETTER DEFEN si VE 
UNE BACKER.
Name 
J. M. Montstream 
A. L. Blotcky . J. L. Kolbe ... 
R. B. Power ...
THE HARO HITTING 5', l_90*GUARO 
FROM MONESSEN ,PA. CALLS DEFENS* 1VE SIGNALS FLOYD ISA SENIOR IN 
INDUSTRIAL fcDM 1NISTRATION AND A 
MEMBER OF 5ICMA-NU FRATERNITY.ON
Tartan Floorm en Edge 
Allegheny Five, 52-50
White butto** 
down oxford, soft 
roll to the collar. 
Popular as a holiday 
with the fellows and 
the gala.
Tartans Upset Pitt
[Continued from page 41 
sjjots to lead by 17 points at the 
beginning fina period.
Apparently it was just the 
Skibos night to do things right. 
Not only was their shooting uncan
nily accurate, but they managed to 
outhustle, outrebound, and out
smart the loca' visitors. The Tar
tans were intercepting passes, and 
picking up lose basketballs all 
evening long.
Hold Belicli 
The men of CIT really gained 
the controlling hand when they 
forced the Pittmen into a slow 
deliberate offense. It was the 
Tartans' defensive star, Len Bianchi, who spent his efforts guard
ing Pitts highly touted star, Mike 
Belich. The success of Bianchi's 
job is proven by the fact that 
Belich didnt score a single point 
until the third quarter when he 
sank his only field goal of the en
counter. This, along with five free 
throws that he made, accounted 
for his total scoring achievements 
for the night.
Tartans Smooth 
Mike Zernich was the high man 
for the Panthers with nine points, 
while George Hromanek followed 
close behind with eight tallies.
The Tartans showed as steady 
a brand of ball as they have dis riue whit 
broadcloth, extreme 
widespread collar. 
Sharpest shirt on 
the quadrangles 
this year.
_L

---------------------------------------------------

Sophomores 
Drub Seniors 
In Volleyball* '
A strong sophomore volleyball 
team downed a hard fighting sen
ior team 2-0 in the first of a series 
of inter-class games sponsored by j 
the WAA. The sophomores piled ' 
up a 16 point lead in the opening 
game before the seniors were able 
to score a point.
The final score was 45-4 in favor ; 
of the underclassmen. In the sec- j 
ond game the seniors took the lead : 
in the opening few seconds, but 
soon fell beneath the sophomore 
onslaught to lose 29-7.
Tomorrow the freshmen will 
meet the juniors in what promises 
to be a more closely-fought con
test.
Einaiion Favored To Cop Championship Again, 
While Other Quintets Rate As Dark Horses
A total of 30 teams have entered intramural basketball competi
tion in quest of the covted all-school championship. Twelve of these 
teams swung into action last night as the 1951 season opened, and 12 
more are slated to take to the floor tonight.
Emanon, last year's school^----------------------------------------------------------
champions again promises to be 
one of the better teams in the 
race, although both Sigma Nu and 
Delta Tau Delta are expected to 
give the Nonames plenty of 
trouble in the National League.
Kappa Sigs Strong
In the Federal League Kappa 
Sigma appears to be the strongest 
team, at least until one of the 
other squads proves otherwise. Pi 
Kappa Alpha, the Dorm Dukes,
Phi Kappa, Alpha Tau Omega, 
and Theta Xi are expected to 
stage a close race for the Amer
ican League crown.
However, as has been the case 
several times in the past, one of 
the lesser-known teams could very 
possibly steal the spotlight from 
the reputedly powerful aggrega
tions.
Start On Time
Following the procedure set-up 
last 3rear, six games will be played 
each evening on the three courts, 
three games at seven o'clock and 
three at eight. Any team not 
ready to play five minutes after 
the scheduled time will lose by 
forfeit.
Teams in the American League 
are Pi Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma 
B, Theta Xi A', Phi Kappa 
A'\ Citcom Omicrons, Market
eers, Dorm Dukes. The Greatest,
Beta Sigma Rho. and Alpha Tau 
Omega.
The Federal League is made up 
of Delta Upsilon A, Beta Theta 
Pi A, Llabteksabs, Sigma Nu 
B", Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Kappa 
Sigma A, Gunners, Blackbirds,
Star Lane, Theta Xi B.
Heavy Schedule
Tau Delta Phi, Citcom Cordicrons, Delta Tau Delta, Emanon,
Sigma Nu A, Delta Upsilon B,
Raiders, Phi Kappa B, Obelisks, 
and Beta Theta Pi B will battle 
for the National League title.
The schedule for the next two 
weeks is as follows:
Monday, Jan. 15PiKA vs ATO. Kappa 
Sigma 'B vs Beta Sigma Rho, DU A 
vs TX B, Beta Theta Pi A vs Star 
Lane, Tau Delta Phi vs Beta Theta Pi 
B", Citcom Cordicrons vs Obelisks.
Tuesday, Jan. 16TX A vs The Great
est, Phi Kap A vs Citcom Omicrons,
Llabteksabs vs Blackbirds, Sigma Nu "B" vs SAE, DTD vs Phi Kap "B,
Emanon vs Sigma Nu A.
Wednesday, Jan. 17Citcom Omicrons vs 
Marketeers, SAE vs Kappa Sigma A,
Sigma Nu A vs DU B, Tau Delta 
Phi vs Obelisks. DU A vs Star Lane,
PiKA vs Beta Sigma Rho.
Thursday, Jan. 18Kappa Sigma B vs 
Dorm Dukes, Beta Theta Pi A vs 
Gunners, Citcom Cordicrons vs Raid
ers. TX A vs Marketeers, Llabteksabs 
vs Kappa Sigma A, Delts vs DU B.
Friday. Jan. 19ATO vs The Greatest,
TX B vs Blackbirds. Beta 'B vs Phi 
Kappa B, Phi Kappa A vs Dorm 
Dukes, Sigma Nu B vs Gunners,
Emanon vs Raiders.
Monday. Jan. 22PiKA vs The Greatest,
DU A vs Blackbirds, Tau Delts vs 
Phi Kappa B, Beta Sigs vs Dorm 
Dukes, Star Lane vs Gunners, Obelisks 
vs Raiders.
Tuesday, Jan. 23Kappa Sigma B vs 
Citcom Omicrons, Beta A vs SAE,
Citcom Cordicron vs Sigma Nu A,
Marketeers vs ATO, Kappa Sigma A 
vs TX 'B'*, DU "B vs Beta "B.
Wednesday, Jan. 24TX A vs Phi 
Kappa A, Llabteksabs vs Sigma Nu 
B". Delts vs Emanon, PiKA vs Dorm 
Dukes, DU A vs Gunners, Tau Delts 
vs Raiders.
ACTION IN VOLLEYBALL PLAYOFF
Paul Sauer of Kappa Sigma is shown above leaping high in the 
air to spike the ball into the Raider court. The action took place 
during the volleyball playoff battle between the victorious Kappa 
Sigs and the runner-up Purple Raiders. In addition to stopping 
the Raiders, Kappa Sigma also defeated Sigma Nu and Pi Kappa 
Alpha in winning the school volleyball championship.
Betas And DUs Lead Leagues 
In Second Week Of Bowlin;
The second week of the intramural bowling season was one of a 
great deal of excitement as several of the matches were decided on 
the basis of only a few points.
Delta Upsilon continued their winning ways as they took three
matches from a weaker Pi Kappa#----------------------------------------------------------
Alpha team notching their sixth I the alleys, and thus Phi Kappa got
consecutive game.
Alpha Tau Omega defeated 
Theta Xi by a three to one score 
in a closely fought match. After 
losing the first game, Theta Xi 
came back to win the second 
game and almost tie the total pin 
count. ATO then won the third 
game by a sufficient margin to 
also give them the total high pin 
score.
Beta Sigs Tie
Beta Sigma Rho won two out 
of three games from Kappa Sigma, 
but they lost their third game by 
sufficient points to give the high 
pin score to Kappa Sigma, thus 
giving them a tie for the day on 
the total score.
Emanon took two games from 
Sigma Nu and won the high pin 
point by a slim three pins to give 
them a 3-1 victory.
Tau Delta Phi defeated Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon in three games to 
give them a tie for second place 
standings in the Strikes League.
Betas Sweep Clean
Beta Theta Pi notched four 
points for the day as they swept 
the series match from the New
man Club, thus giving them un
disputed possession of first place 
in the Strikes League.
For the second week in a row 
Citcom failed to place a team on
credit for the 
match.
four points of the
Standings:
Strikes LeagueGamesPoints
Beta Theta Pi57Tau Delta Phi45
Sigma Nu45Kappa Sigma35Newman Club34Emanon34
Beta Sigma Rho34
Sigma Alpha Epsilon00Spares LeagueGamesPoints
Delta Upsilon68Alpha Tau Omega57
Theta Xi45
Phi Kappa34
Pi Kappa Alpha00
Delta Tau Delta00
Citcom Clan00
Headquarters for Fraternity & 
Sorority Supplies
Oakland Hardware
3606 FORBES ST.
MA. 1-0923
CIT Gridders Defeat 
WAA in Court Game
Carnegies varsity football team won its most crucial game of the 
season when it defeated the WAA basketball team 27-23 on the hard
wood last Thursday. The varsity opened fast and led 8-4 at the end 
of the first quarterlargely because the girls missed all of their 
eight foul shots. ?  ~
In the second quarter the fel- ! 
lows began to trip around instead 
of over the girls, and found the 
hoop for 10 points to lead 20-11 at 
the half.
In the second half the die-hard 
WAA team outscored the varsity 
12-7, but they could not over
come the early lead piled up by the 
football team and went down to 
defeat amidst shouts, screams and
Charlie Kelton paced the foot
ball team with eight points, while 
Pat Stewart had six points and 
Janet Wilkens had five for {he 
loosers. The football team is ap
parently none the worse for the 
wear, because they have challeng
ed the WAA volleyball team to 
a match. This game will be played 
as soon as the girls who play both 
volleyball and basketball have
hilarious laughter of the onlook- 1 fully recovered.
RENT
a typewriter
and keep up 
with your work
Portables 
Standard Office Machines 
Wide Carriage Machines 
Rates as low as*4.00 per month
3 Mos. $10.00
FIRST RENI AL APPLIES 
TO PURCHASE PRICE
Fort Pitt 
Typewriter Co.
644 Liberty Avenue 
AT. 1-8320
Intramural Rifle 
Tourney Rules 
Ready For Teams
The rules for the intramural 
rifle program were recently re
leased by the intramural depart
ment. It was announced that the 
CIT interpretation of the NRA 
intercollegiate rules will govern 
the tourney.
The final team must include 5
Volleyball Title
KS Wins Over PiKA, 
Sigma Nu, And Raiders
Defeating Sigma Nu, PiKA, and 
The Raiders on consecutive days, 
Kappa Sigma swept to the school 
intramural volleyball championlast week. The Raiders finish
ed in second place, while PiKA 
and Citcom finished third.
With a well-balanced and tall 
team, led by Frank Motter and Joe 
Pniewski, the Kappa Sigs easily 
defeated Sigma Uu in the quarter
final playoff round by scores of 
15-5 and 15-4. On the same night 
the Raiders upset the defending 
champions Delta Tau Delta, 15-4 
and 16-14.
The semi-finals found one of the 
best games of the season as PiKA 
and Kappa Sig fought through one 
and one-half hours of solid play
ing before the latter team emerged 
the winner, 17-19, 15-13 and 15-8. 
The stellar spiking of Capel McCutcheon almost succeeded in win
ning for the PiKAs.
In the finals, the Raiders sur
prised Kappa Sig with a first game 
win, 15-0, but the Clyde Streeters 
went on to take the next three 
games and the championship by 
scores of 15-3, 15-7, and 15-12.
In the other playoff game that 
evening, the Raiders advanced to 
the finals by defeating Citcom 
Clan, 15-6, 12-15 and 15-9. It is 
interesting to note that both the 
teams in the final rounds of the 
playoffs finished second in their 
league, making the value of the 
two-team playoff system quite evi
dent.
men to take part in the matches 
which will include 10 shots prone, 
10 rounds kneeling, and 10 rounds 
standing'. Managers should obtain 
further information from the in
tramural office.
Associated Students Memorial Building 
University of Washington 
Seattle, Washing ton
The Associated Students Memorial 
Union Building is one o the favor
ite on-the-campus haunts of students 
at the University of Washington. 
Thats because the Union Building 
is a friendly place, always full of 
the busy atmosphere of college 
life. There is always plenty of icecold Coca-Cola, too. For here, as in 
university gathering spots every
whereCoke belongs.
4 Plus State Tax
BOTTLED
COCA-COLA
Ask for it either way . . . both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.
UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA COLA COMPANY BY
BOTTLING CO., OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
 1950, Th Coca-Cola Company
IVu  i , f,
Page 6TA^ANTUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951
Thirty Basketball Teams Enter 
Intramural League Competition
Kappa Sigma 
Wins School

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951TAIWANPage 7
Dorms Provide Best Reception 
For WRCT Carrier Signals
Radios Receive Signals Over Power Lines; 
Station Needs Additional Technical Personnel
Last year many students tried to receive the campus radio station 
WRCT, but either couldnt find it, or couldnt understand it. This 
year reception is good in the mens dorms, Morewood Gardens, and
the barracks. ? ----------------------------------------------
WRCT doesnt broadcast through 
the air like a commercial radio 
station. Its equipment is in the 
basement of the Carnegie Union 
and sends out an audio (voice) 
signal over leased Bell system 
lines to two transmitters; one in 
Boss Hall, and the other in Morewood Gardens. Their output is 
coupled into the power line, and 
the signal reaches the receiving 
set over it.
Many schools have campus car
rier system stations rather than 
regular FM or AM broadcast sta
tions, because many students dont 
have FM receivers, the AM band 
is too crowded, and a licensed en
gineer is required to be on duty at 
all times.
WRCT needs engineers, but not 
licensed. Most of the construction 
work is finished, but maintenance 
and operations will require sev
eral men. Anyone interested con
tact Dave Steiner, drop down to 
the station some night, or leave 
a note on the WRCT bulletin 
board.
Bob Kubiak 
Given Award 
By Fraternity
Leadership, Activities 
Recognized At Dance
Robert J. Kubiak, P&D senior 
at Carnegie Tech, was awarded a 
$500 Regional Leadership Schol
arship by the Delta Upsilon fra
ternity Educational Foundation at 
a special presentation Saturday 
night.
Dr. James A. Dickinson, Dean 
of Students, made the award for 
the trustees of the DU foundation 
at the CFP formal.
Kubiak was awarded the schol
arship for Region 3, which in
cludes thirteen states and the Dis
trict of Columbia.
The award was made in recog
nition of leadership and construc
tive achievement on his college 
campus, and includes the sum 
of $500 to aid, encourage, pro
mote and contribute to his fur
ther education.
Dr. J. C. Warner and Dr. Ed- j Kubiak is president of the Carward Baker were among the eight j negie chapter of ODK, national 
leading Pitsburghers selected by , , , . .the Junior Chamber of Commerce ^e-^.p honorary, pastrprefor their contributions to com- of PiDE, national journalism
munity life in their respective fraternity, a member of UAC and 
fields. The merit awards will be has served on the Tartan, 
presented tonight at a Chamber 
dinner in the Hotel William Penn.
Dr. Warner, president of Car
negie Tech, was selected for his 
constant efforts to improve the 
techniques in education. Dr. Ed
ward B. Baker, head football 
coach, was chosen for directing his 
football team to one of its most 
successful seasons.
Warner, Baker 
To Be Honored 
At Jaycee Dinner
Loans
Five Receive 
Doctorates 
At Ceremony
Carnegie Tech awarded five doc
tor of Science degrees during a 
special ceremony held in the of
fice of Dr. J. C. Warner, Carnegie 
President, last Saturday morning.
Doctors degrees were awarded 
to Meyer Ruben Achter and 
Arthur John Opinsky in the field 
of metallurgical engineering, Al
bert Henry Lasday and Albert Isadore Schindler in physics and 
Arthur Kant in chemistry.
Achter received a BS degree in 
metallurgical engineering from 
Carnegie in 1947. He graduated 
sixth in the College of Engineering 
and Science then.
Opinsky received BS and MS 
degrees in metallurgical engineer
ing from Carnegie Tech.
Lasday received a BS degree in 
physics and engineering from the 
University of Pittsburgh. He was 
awarded an MA in physics from 
Harvard University.
Schindler received a BS degree 
in physics in 1947 and an MS in 
physics a year later from Car
negie.
Kant received a BA in chemistry 
from the University of Wisconsin 
and an MA in chemistry from Co
lumbia University in 1939.
AH students who have ap
plied for long-term loans are 
requested to stop in at the 
Dean of Students office some 
time this week to see Dr. 
Dickinson.
Siegman Bros.
CLEANERS
3520 Fifth Avenue 
Across from Falk Clinic 
2 HOUR SERVICE
Polio Society 
Offers Grants
Research To Be Done 
In Paralysis Fields
The National Foundation for In
fantile Paralysis announces that a 
limited number of predoctoral and 
postdoctoral fellowships are avail
able to candidates whose interests 
are research and teaching in the 
fields related to the problems of 
polio, such as virology, biochemis
try, biophysics, orthopedics, pedi
atrics, neurology, and epidemiol
ogy.
Predoctoral fellowships cover a 
period of one year, but may be 
j considered for renewal. Postdoc
toral fellowships cover a period of 
| one to three years with the privi
lege of renewal depending on the 
I candidates previous training and 
 his pi'ogram.
Eligibility requirements include 
U. S. citizenship and sound health.
| Predoctoral applicants must be 
j candidates for an MD, PhD or its 
I equivalent. Postdoctoral applicants 
! must have an MD, PhD or its
i equivalent.
Sample applications forms are 
available in the Deans office. 
Complete information concering 
qualifications and applications 
may be obtained from: Division of 
Professional Education, National 
Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, 
120 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.
Scientist Makes Less 
In Teaching Position
An interesting study made by^ 
the U.S. Department of Labors 
Bureau of Labor Statistics offers 
many findings about the employ
ment, education, and earnings of 
the countrys leading scientists. 
The investigation was made in co
operation with the Department of 
Defense.,/
One of the findings Avas that 
salary levels of the nations top 
scientists are considerably lower 
in colleges and universities than 
in either government or private 
industry. This is true for each age 
group, every scientific field, and 
every region of the country. The 
scientists studied were predom
inantly research workers. Next to 
research, teaching was the activ
ity most often reported.
Leading scientists chose as their 
principal field of employment ed
ucational institutions, with private 
industry second and government 
third. It was also found that older 
men received higher salaries than 
their younger colleagues, regard
less of the type of employment. 
Median salaries tended to increase 
more rapidly with age in private 
industry than in any other type of 
employment.
American men of science are 
faced not only with getting the 
proper erucation in college, but 
also with finding a fair, compen
sating position after receiving a 
degree.
WRCT 
Seh lu le
Tuesday 
8:00Stan Kenton show
8:30The Extremes
9:00-Navy Star Time 
9:15Inquiring Reporter 
9:30Disk Jockey Gardner) 
10:00News
10:05Classical Hour
Wednesday 
8:00Latin Tempos 
8:30-Drama Hour 
9:30Twenty Questions 10:00News 
10:05Classical Hour
Thursday
8:00Broadway Showtime 
8:30Stars on Parade 8:45Sports Roundup 
9:00Proudly We Hail 9:30Records With Wes 
10:00News 
10:05Classical Hour
CampInterviews on (
Ii Number
CigTestsaretteus
it
OPOSSUMTHE
More People Smoke Camels
than any other cigarette!
Monday
8:00Tech Varieties 
8:30Corn With Claster 
9:00Jazz Jamboree at CIT 
9:30Leave it to the Girls 9:45Guest tar 
10:00News 
10:05Classical Hour
Thereby hangs 
a tale!
.he class clown went out on a limb and tried to prove 
cigarette mildness by the quick-trick method! He tried the fast inhale, fast
exhale testa whiff, a sniffand they still left him up in the air! 
.But then he got his feet on the ground. He learned that there is 
a reliable way to discover how mild a cigarette can be!
And that test is ...
The sensible test... the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test
which simply asks you to try Camels as a steady smokeon a 
pack after pack, day after day basis. No snap 
judgments needed. After youve enjoyed Camels 
and only Camelsfor 30 days in your T-Zone  (T for Throat,
T for Taste), we believe youll know why . . .

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TAMPANTUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951
Dr. R. F. Mehl 
On Government Board 
* * *
Mehl Named 
To Federal 
Advisory Post
Leave Granted Head 
Of Metalluryg Dept.
Dr. Robert F. Mehl, director of 
the Metals Research Laboratory 
and head of the Department of 
Metallurgical Engineering, has 
been named head of the top gov
ernment advistory board on met
allurgy.
Dr. Mehl has been granted a 
temporary leave of absence to be
come chairman of the Metallurg
ical Advisory Board of the Na
tional Research Council. He will 
assume his new post immediately.
Before joining the Carnegie fac
ulty in 1932, Dr. Mehl was a Proc
tor Fellow in chemistry at Prince
ton, head of the Department of 
Chemistry at Juniata College, and 
a National Research Fellow at 
Harvard.
In Navy Lab
He was also superintendent of 
the Division of Physical Metal
lurgical in the Naval Research 
Laboratory in Washington and as
sistant director of the American 
Rolling Mill company research 
laboratories in Middletown, Ohio.
He joined Carnegie as director 
of the Metals Research Laboratory 
and professor of metallurgy. In 
1935, he became, in addition, head 
of the Department of Metallurgical 
Engineering.
Several Degrees
The nationally-known metal
lurgist holds a BS degree from 
Franklin and Marshall and a PhD 
in physical science from Prince
ton. He has received three hon
orary degrees: a Doctor of Sci
ence from F&M, Doctor of Engi
neering from Stevens Institute of 
Technology, and a Doutor Honoris 
Causa from the Universidade de 
Sao Paulo in Brazil.
He is an author and editor in 
his field, and has lectured both 
here and abroad. During Wofld 
War II, Dr. Mehl was an attache 
to the U. S. Embassy in London 
with the simulated rank of brig
adier general.
Lrt Tosco
To Feature 
Tagliavine
La Tosca, with Ferruccio Tagliavine, Wilma Spence, and Robert 
Weede, singing the leading roles, i 
will be presented by the Pitts
burgh Opera Company at the Syria . 
Mosque. Thursday and Saturday 
evenings, January 25 and 27.
In addition to the Metropolitan ' 
Opera stars, Leonard Lawrence 
appears in the part of Angelotti; 
Lloyd Harris as Sacristan; Henry I 
Cordy as Spoletta; Earl Corwin as ; 
Sciarrone, and Juliana Androlonis j 
and James Grim. La Tosca is an ' 
opera in three acts, with music by 
Giacomo Puccini. Libretto by Illica 
and Giacosa. The first production 
was given in Rome in 1900.
Tickets are now on sale at VolkW*yu* GuubeL-s and Hornes.
Army Training 
Found Lacking
[Continued from page 2] j 
as he opened the second cabinet I j 
remembered that the closet con- j 
tained that which it shouldnt.
Perhaps I should explain that I ' 
was always enthusiastic over the j 
armys plans for education for the ! 
boys in the service, and being an 
ardent musician, I took every op
portunity to learn as much as I 
could. So imagine my, no, imagine 
the colonels surprise when, upon ] 
opening the cabinet, a violin, 
piano accordian, banjo mandolin,! 
and mandolin were exposed to full j 
view. I must admit that the colonel 
remained calm but his expression 
became quizical so I volunteered 
the information that, I play a 
little on my lunch hour.
Another Musician
Thats very nice, he said, 
quite pleased that his men were 
obtaining culture. I somehow for
got to add how long my lunch hour 
lasted.
Bill, the electricians helper, was 
another musical lad. So seeing me 
playing all day long he joined me 
one afternoon when he had noth
ing to do in a little musical spree. 
He was a very unlucky lad. The 
next day he was put on the coal 
pile. And thats another rule I wish 
to illustrate. Be original.
Another rule which cannot be 
over stressed is the one which 
states that if one thinks he is right 
he should go all out for his ideals. 
One incident of this type stands 
out above many others in my 
memory. It was decided to print 
the post newspaper rather than to 
mimeograph it, and so it was de
cided to acquire a linotype for 
my little shop.
Door Troubles
Now the linotype machine is no 
little machine as you may easily 
see by going over to Industries hall 
and taking a look at one. Well, one 
sunny day a truck pulled up out
side the building which contain
ed my little shop with a beautiful 
linotype aboard. The door of the 
building was too small so there 
ensued a terrific argument be
tween my boss and the plant main
tenance engineer. My boss won 
and the carpenter sawed a hole in 
the front of the building to admit 
the machine. The two men on the 
truck, experienced operators, eas
ed the machine off the truck and 
into the hall. But to our dismay it 
wouldnt fit through any shop door 
either. The carpenter had his saw 
raised when a bellow came from 
the engineer and operations ceas
ed. The next morning the carpen
ter proceeded to remove the front 
of my shop under the protection 
of my boss who always acted upon 
my suggestions.
Oh, it wasnt so bad. It was 
spring and it really wasnt cold. 
After a time the electrians were 
ready to hook up the machine and 
the carpenter had the front of the 
building back in place.
Moving Day
Then into my shop one day 
walked a safety inspector. He 
didnt faint but the pained ex
pression on his face was evidence 
enough that trouble was due. And 
sure enough he objected that my 
little old shop wasnt safe. Too 
much machinery, too little space. 
So back came the carpenter and 
down came the front of the build
ing again and with 18 GIs, one 
lieutenant, and one truck, we roll
ed, pulled, and tugged the linotype 
ou of the little printing shop, 
down the road, and into a new 
shqp.
It was a great stil when every
thing was finally set and I was 
ready to commence operations. 
Only one thing bothered me. I 
didnt know how to run the thing!
Your I D CARD Means 
0n Jewe,r? 19 /O V/TT Watch Repair
TIME SHOP
3623 Fifth Ave SC 1-7077
(fifth Avenac ai Atwood St.l
Dramatists 
Open Contest 
On New Plavsml
Dramatists Alliance an 
nounces the 16th annual competi
tions in dramatic forms, with 
awards as follows: $100 in cash, 
recommendation to producers of 
the west, and recommendations to 
publishers, for serious drama of 
full length under provisions for 
the Stevens Award.
Full length comedy winners, eli
gible for the Etherege Award, will 
receive $50, recommendation, and 
instruction to acting groups.
Celebrating its 15 th anniver
sary this year, the Alliance felt 
that it was well observed with the 
production of two original plays. 
The association has been aiming 
towards this goal ever since it was 
organized.
Greek Sing
[Continued from page 3] 
represents. Fraternities are re
quired to have a minimum of 16 
or one-third of their membership, 
whichever is the larger, while the 
sororities shall have a minimum 
of 12 participants.
Awards At Swing
Three judges who have no affil
iations with fraternities or sorori
ties or. the CIT campus will be 
hired for the affair. They will use 
a general, but effective checksheet in judging each group. This 
sheet incluaes in addition to a 
point distribution for musical tal
ents, those rules which disqualify 
a group and any other rules 
which concern the judging di
rectly.
The judges will not be allowed 
to converse with one another and 
not to hear recordings until after 
handing in the check sheets.
The awards will be presented at 
Swing by CFP and Panhellenic 
Council.
Trip To Europe 
Prize For Winner 
Of Essay Contest
A scholarship trip to Europe 
next summer, with all expenses 
paid, will be awarded to the per
son who writes the best essay en
titled, Why I Would Like to Go 
Hosteling in Europe, it was an
nounced by officials of American  
Youth Hostels.
The winner in nation-wide com
petition for this trip will join one 
of the supervised groups spon
sored by AYH and will spend 
eight weeks abroad. He will have 
his choice of trips to the British 
Isles, Central Europe, or France 
and the Rhineland. Full infor
mation and application forms may 
be obtained from National Head
quarters, American Youth Hostels, 
6 East 39th Street, New York 16.
THEM All!
Philip Morris challenges
any other leading brand 
to suggest this test
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF 
SMOKERS, who tried this test, 
report in signed statements that 
PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY 
LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1. . . Light up a PHILIP MORRIS 2. .. Light up your present brand
Just take a puffDON'T INHALEand Do exactly the same thingDONT
s_|_o_w_|_y let the smoke come through INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting?
your nose. Easy, isnt it? And NOW... Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claimsbut Philip Morris invites you 
to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. 
Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . 
Philip Morris is, indeed, Americas FINEST Cigarette!
jA CIGARETTE HANGOVER
means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
PHILIP MORRIS

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951TAH9AIPage 9
It lias tkat longer, lower, wider big-car look!
AMERICAN BEAUTY DESIGN-Brilliant now 
styling . . . featuring new grille, fender moldings and rear-end design . . . giving Chevrolet that longer, lower, wider big-car look.
AMERICA-PREFERRED BODIES BY FISHER
With strikingly beautiful lines, contours and colors . . . plus extra sturdy Fisher Unisteel construction, and Curved Windshield with Panoramic Visibility.
MODERN-MODE INTERIORS-With uphol
stery and appointments of outstanding quality ... and with extra generous seating room for driver and all passengers on big, deep, Five-Foot Seats.*
SAFETY-SIGHT INSTRUMENT PANEL-Safer.
more efficient with overhanging upper crown to eliminate reflections in windshield . . . and with plain, easy-to-read instruments in two large 
clusters.
MORE POWERFUL JUMBO-DRUM BRAKES 
fwith Dubl-Ufe rivetless brake liningsJ
Largest brakes in the entire low-price field . . , 
giving maximum stopping-power with up to 25% less driver effortand longer brake life.
IMPROVED CENTER-POINT STEERING land 
Cenfer-Po/nf Design)Making steering extra 
easy, just as Chevrolets famous Knee-Action Ride is comfortable beyond comparison in its price 
range.
Heres Americas largest and finest low-priced carthe newest of all new 
automobilesas trustworthy as it is thrifty to buy, operate and maintain.
New with that longer, lower, wider big-car look! New in hs strikingly 
smarter Fisher Body styling and beautifully tailored Modern-Mode inte
riors! New in safety, new in steering ease, new in feature after feature!
Moreover, its thoroughly proved in all things, from the finer no-shift 
driving of its Powerglide Automatic Transmission,* or the finer standard 
driving of its Synchro-Mesh Transmission to the fleet, frugal performance 
of its Valve-in-Head engine.
Come insee and drive Americas largest and finest low-priced car 
Chevrolet for *51the only car that brings you so many big-car advan
tages at such low costl
PLUS TIME-PROVED POWER 
AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSIOH
proved by more than a billion miles of performance in the hands of 
hundreds of thousands of owners. *Combination of Powerglide Automatic 
Transmission and 105-h.p. Engine optional on De Luxe models at extra cost.
CHEVROLET
See it at your local Chevrolet Dealers
INQUIRING REPORTER j
What Do You Think? - 
Answers Are Varied
Every week the inquiring reporter asks the students, What do 
you think of this, or what do you think of that? Now this method 
of asking students is based on the assumption that they do think.
This week th inquiring reporter resolved to test this assumption 
by asking students, What do you# 
think? The biggest reaction to
T utoring
Correction of Tau Beta Pis 
tutoring schedule may be 
found on the last page of this 
issue.
Sororities
[Continued from page 1] 
luncheon dates and the scheduled 
parties. Luncheon dates, however, 
will end February 14.
Parties have been scheduled 
from 7:00-10:00 p.m. on the follow
ing days: Delta Delta Delta, Feb
ruary 15; Alpha Epsilon Phi, Feb
ruary 16; Chi Omega, February 16; 
Sigma Kappa, February 18; Delta 
Gamma, February 22; Kappa Al
pha Theta, February 23, and Kap
pa Kappa Gamma, February 25.
COMBO
LEO ALMAN
HA 1-2083
jAvasCIGR
Debate Team 
Working Hard
Inter-City Meets Start 
Practice For National
Carnegie Tech debaters are now 
in the pre-tournament season. 
Under the sponsorship of the In
ter-City league, they have par
ticipated in debates with Pitt, Duquesne, Mt. Mercy, St. Vincent, 
and Westminster. On December 5, 
Tech played host at the first de
cision tournament of the league. 
Plans are now being made to ex
tend these inter-school contests 
into the second semester.
After winning the national 
tournament last year, CIT is 
working hard to secure victories in 
the major tourneys of the second 
semester. The debaters plan to 
attend tournaments at W&J, Mt. 
Mercy, Shippensburg, Kent State, 
Temple University, and the grand 
national tournament. With an in
creased membership and coaching 
staff, they hope to better last 
years record.
Music Prof. 
Honored By
Symphony
Lopatnikoff To Write 
For La Jolla Society
Nikolai Lopatnikoff, intemationlly known composer and professor 
of music at CIT, has been commis
sioned to write a divertimento for 
orchestra by. the Musical Arts So
ciety of La Jolla, California.
The work, to be written in com
memoration of the Societys tenth 
anniversary, is scheduled for its 
first performance in the fall by the 
La Jolla symphony orchestra.
Professor Lopatnikoff has had 
his symphonic compositions play
ed by major orchestras of Europe 
and America under the leadership 
of such conductors as Serge Koussevitsky, Leopold Stokowski, and 
Bruno Walter.
Last spring the Pittsburgh Sym
phony, with Alexander Hilsberg as 
conductor and Hugo Kolberg as 
soloist, played Lopatnikoffs Con
certo for Violin and Orchestra.
the question was an open-mouthed 
stare. However, this reporter has, 
after much consideration, come to 
the conclusion that, in general, 
students do think.
Edward Santaella, junior: I
think about 
studies every 
once in a while 
and about wom
en too. I think 
of the future  
what I am going 
to be doing 10, 
20, or 30 years 
from now. Also, 
I think of the 
ways of getting 
money and the ways of spending 
it when I have it. And right now 
I am thinking of going home be
cause I have work to do.
Anita Brennan, sophomore: I 
think about the 
army a heck of a 
I wonder 
when the fellows 
be going and 
who is going to 
o m e back. I 
wonder whether 
the war is going 
to come to the 
United States. Is 
Tech going to be 
bombed? And whether I will be 
married and have children. The 
thought uppermost on my mind 
right now is the exams, naturally, 
and should I cut my next class or 
not.
Bill Kaufman, sophomore: I
think about the 
w o rid situation 
and whether I 
will get drafted 
or will be able to 
graduate. This is 
probably the 
thought upper
most on every
ones mind right 
now. I have been 
wondering how 
Ill get to California, Pa. this 
weekend. Also, how I am going to 
pass physics this time. I am 
thinking about boning up for the 
final exam. I am not a very good 
subject; you will have to edit this 
| because my thoughts are not very 
clear. Why dont you ask me 
questions I can answer?j
Wanda Walsh, graduate: Being 
in graduate 
< | school and in so
la^ lems are of great
if ' ~ frl interest to me. I
mm- ^ am c o n c erned
Jm about what I am
going to do after
uate school. That 
 is why I am tak
ing a masters degreeyou have a 
better opportunity for work with 
two degrees, I think. In fact, all 
I do is think.
LARGEST AND FINEST LOW-PRICED CAR !
UNIVERSITY
RECREATION
Bowling
AFTERNOON, SAT. A SUN. 
BOWLING
407-409 CRAIG ST.
_ SC. 1-9307
RODGERS
DAIRY
TRY OURHAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made with pure whole 
milk
R ODGER S
Dairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside 
Other stores downtown

---------------------------------------------------

Printing Department 
Finishing Remodeling
Modern Lighting And New Flooring 
Make Way For More Equipment
Last Issile
This will be the last edition 
of the Tartan for this semes
ter. Publication dates, which 
were drawn up last spring for 
advertising contracts, were ar
ranged to fit in with the orig
inal school calendar.
The next issue will appear 
on February 13.
theory of the automotive leaf 
spring.
His talk, will be accompanied 
by the breaking of model springs 
plus other graphical illustrations.
He originally had this paper 
published in the SAE Journal.
Mr. John O. Kobzina, the second 
speaker, will give a talk on the 
newly developed Free Piston En
gine February 13 in EH 1112 at 
11:30.
The importance of this project 
is such that most of the technical 
data is still on the restricted list 
of naval information. This meet
ing should be particularly inter
esting since it dwells with an al
most unknown type of engine 
which has only recently been de
veloped. Anyone interested in 
either of these programs is cor
dially invited to attend.
VAG
THrise*
Need somebody to sharpen your pencils for you in there? 
. Need somebody to sharpen your pencils in there for you?*
Patronize Tartan Advertisers
ENJOY YOUR CIGARETTE!...
If youre not happy with your present 
brand (and a 38-city survey shows that 
millions are not), smoke Luckies! Youll 
get the happy blending of perfect mild
ness and rich taste that fine tobacco 
and only fine tobaccocan give you. 
Remember, Lucky Strike means fine 
tobacco. So get complete smoking enjoy
ment. Be HappyGo Lucky today!
Gri&n
XJnive i
Is Planning 
Active Year
r_ *****"
/ Dna piebrvniV'
An organization which seems to 
have been in hiding this past year 
is finally coming to the fore. Car
negie Techs flying club, with Mr. 
Robert M. Dobbs as advisor, is 
planning a full year of activities.
The present project of the club 
is a privately owned airport with 
their own clubhouse, airplanes, 
and instructors. This would pos
sibly lower flying rates even more 
than they already have. The 
present charge for lessons is $4.60 
a half-hour. There is no dues for 
the club except what each stu
dent pays for his individual flying
LS/MF.T 
Lucky Strike
purpose of the club is to 
; students to learn to fly. 
[ub is planning to have inons and movies in aviation 
ts at its meetings in the
pae 10__________ _______________________ TA4WPAIV TUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951TAIWAN
CMNEG.K/ .fin't // It/I / Jrt AWmmv
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
E<litor ............................................................................................Frank Mihelich
News Editor ...................................................................................Martha Latza
Reporters ------ Bill Bartoli, Robert Ellstrom, Robert Lloyd, Dick
Gomrick, Alice Naiimetz, George Schussler
CIT Book Store Keeps Pace 
With Changing Student Needs
The book store on the campus of Carnegie Tech began with the 
opening in 1905. Supplies such as pencils, papers, and erasers were 
supplied to the students. During the first year of school, few text
books were used. Lessons were mimeographed in nearly all the 
subjects. ? -----------.
It was soon discovered that it
Evening School Dance 
Planned February 24
A most enjoyable evening of dancing is in store for all who at
tend the George Washington Birthday dance, sponsored by Evening 
Student Council, to be held in Thistle hall, rear of the Gym on Sat
urday, February 24, from 9:00 until 12:00. The music will be fur
nished by the orchestra of Bill*-----------------------------------
LeRoy, more popularly known I usual, the Black Cat, capably
was quite an inconvenience for 
the Margaret Morrison college and 
Fine Arts students to walk to the 
end of Industries Hall (former 
location of book store) for sup
plies. To remeaj this, branch
a few of them. They also carry 
a complete line of greeting cards 
for holidays or special occasions.
For those who are not familiar 
with the hours, the book store is 
open from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
Then from 6:15 p.m. to 8:45 p.m. 
Monday through Friday. On Satabout town as the Band in De
mand. Bill LeRoy and his orches
tra have a fine selection of music 
to meet every taste, and they have 
promised to honor requests.
The vocal efforts of Jimmy 
Glenn will be a feature calculated 
to stir the feminine hearts. This 
popular orchestra has played 
many engagements on the Car
negie campus and has been pleas
ing to the
operated by Will Schnarrenberger, 
will be ready to serve you re
freshments, ana the lounge, just 
opposite the Black Cat, will be 
open to provide relaxation for the 
tired dancers. Jim Frape will 
again provide the Door Prize. 
The cost of the dance will be 
$2.25 per couple, including tax. 
Tickets may be secured from Mr. 
McKelway in IH 132, from council
garet Morrison College and Fine \ 
Arts.
This system was soon found to | 
be inefficient and student demand | 
for supplies necessitated combin- |
; ing them into one book store. This !
! book store was located at its pres- ; 
ent site in 192C. Presently it be- | 
came too crowded to issue sup- ' 
j plies, so the administration and : 
i Dr. Doherty advised remodeling j 
and enlarging the old book store j 
until we now have an attractive 
and convenient place to purchase | 
text books.
This expansion has also alle
viated the congestion at the book 
store at registration time.
The book store carries many j 
; varied items: art-supplies, pen *
and pencil sets, slide-rules, pen- | 
! nants, stickers, T-shirts, sweatI shirts, and jackets to mention only
I urday they are open from 8:30 book stores were set up in Mar- 11 a.m. until noon.
The attitude of the management
and employees of our book store is j
to Serve the students in all their j
needs. Special orders may be
Drill Night
From a point high on the campus, a radar beam searches 
the sky. Lights burn in classrooms. Khaki replaces tweed and 
covert for the night as college men assigned to Reserve units 
study the machines and methods of defense.
Preparedness is the order of the day.
And the Bell System stands prepared. In five busy years, 
we have added more than 12,500,000 telephones. Many improve
ments have been made in the quality and speed of service. Our 
force of highly skilled, experienced men and women has been 
greatly enlarged and now numbers more than 600,000.
A nation in a hurry goes, by telephone. This country has 
the best telephone service in the world.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
made through the book store for i 
particular items or books, and the j 
student will receive most of them 
at a 10 per cent discount. An- j 
other important factor in the mod- ; 
ernization of the old book store 
was to save the students money. \ 
The management and employees 1 
of the book store always welcome \ 
suggestions for improvements in ! 
service, or items to carry.
Phi Gams Plan I 
Card PartyJ i
Proceeds Go To Fund 
For Scholarship Award
Phi Gamma Pi Sorority will 
hold its annual card party at Car- ! 
negie Union on January 27 at 2:00 
p. m. The proceeds of this party 
will be added to the scholarship j 
fund which has already been es
tablished by the sorority. A des
sert luncheon will be served. i
The monthly tea of Phi Gamma 
Pi was held Sunday, January 14, ! 
at the Carnegie Union. The main ! 
discussion of the afternon was the 
card party and the girls are plan
ning another such affair in the 
near future.
Sigma Delts 
Hold Meeting; 
Plan Social
Party Next Saturday 
For Wives* Girlfriends
Sigma Delta Phi Fraternity, 
held its first meeting of the new 
year at the Carnegie Union, Room 
A, at 2:00 p.m. Sunday, Jan. 14.
The fraternity will also hold a 
social on Saturday, January 20, 
1951, at the Carnegie Union on 
7:30 to 12:00 p.m. Fraternity mem
bers and their wives and girl
friends are invited. Dancing, cardplaying, and refreshments will as
sure the members of a fine time.
New Course 
On Safety 
To Be Offered
Advanced Industrial Safety, a 
course designed for men and wom
en who have had some industrial 
safety experience, will be offered 
in the evening classes during the 
spring semester.
Harold F. Webb of the safety di
vision of West Penn Power Com
pany will teach the course, which 
will meet on Thursday nights from 
7 to 10 p.m.
The course will cover the causes 
and prevention of industrial acci
dents and a study of the applica
tion o fthe principles of industrial 
safety.
Janies E. Frape
Council Vice President 
* * *
Hobby Turned 
Into Profit 
By J. Frape
Council Vice President 
At CFr Eight Years; 
Has Won Many Prizes
James E. Frape, vice-president 
of Evening Student Council, has 
turned his favorite hobby, jew
elry making, into a profitable and 
fascinating avocation. He works 
primarily with sterling silver and 
designs and makes anything from 
tie clasps to diamond rings. Buy
ers of his jewelry can boast con
fidently of wearing the latest 
thing. He also shares with others 
the pleasures of this creative 
work by teaching part time at the 
Arts and Crafts Center and the 
YWCA.
Starting February 8 his unique 
jewelry will be exhibited at the 
Annual Exhibition of the Asso
ciated Artists of Pittsburgh at the 
Arts and Crafts Center. His work 
lias been entered in these exhibits 
for the past several years. Last 
year he was the winner of the 
coveted Vernon-Benshoff Prize for 
jewelry, in 1949 he was awarded 
the Arizona Prize and two second 
prizes, and was a first prize win
ner in 1948. A rare honor was his 
when last year his work was ac
cepted in the nationwide Wichita, 
Kansas, art association show.
Jim, a master of his trade, has 
been attending evening classes 
since 1942 in sculpture and pot
tery in addition to metalcrafts. 
He is an active member of Even
ing Student Council, Sigma Delta 
Phi, evening social fraternity, and 
Nu Sigma Alphs, evening activi
ties honorary fraternity. His offcampus activities include member; ship in the Craftsmen's Guild of 
i Pittsburgh and Associated Artists 
! of Pittsburgh of which he is treas
urer.
Patronize
Tartan
Advertisers
Snow Storm 
Hits Council
Next Dance Discussed ; 
Meeting Adjourned
King winter reigned at the reg
ular monthly meeting of the Even
ing Student Council last Sunday. 
The weekend snowstorm was re
sponsible for the limited attend
ance of the membership.
Snow was also the determent at 
the Christmas Assembly, Decem
ber 16. Despite the weather con
ditions, approximately 200 hardy 
students were present. After the 
revised constitution of the Even
ing Student Council ratified, every
one joined in having a merry time 
singing Christmas carols. Several 
selections by the Carnegie Tech 
Bagpipers and a few words of 
greeting by Reverend Clark and
President George Schussier.

---------------------------------------------------

More BOUNCE To The Ounce
PHOTOGRAPHS TAKEN 
ON CAMPUS
Sy" -?CW; l|fMi . *
Pagt 12TAWA1VTUESDAY, JANUARY 16, 1951
L5i 1 libili Hoard
"Of Mice And Men"
Given Next Sunday
Of Mice and Men, sponsored 
by the Pittsburgh Art Film Cir
cle, will be presented on January 
28 at 8:00 p.m. at Soho Commun
ity House.
The film, starring Lon Chaney, 
Jr., Burgess Meredith, and Betty 
Fields, is shown as one of a series 
of unusual films selected by the 
members of the association. Films 
are shown every two weeks, and 
membership is open to all persons 
who are interested. Student mem
berships are at half rate, or $2.00 
per student, for a series of five 
programs.
Canterbury Club Hears 
Talks On Greof Books
Talks on great books will be the 
jiscussion topics for the weekly 
jupper meetings of the Canterbury 
31ub held each Sunday night from 
3 to 8. Members of the CIT his
tory and English departments will 
oe the speakers. The first is Robert 
Schwartz, history instructor.
The first book discussed will be 
'Magic Mountain by Thomas 
Mann on Jan. 14. Others, sched
uled for later in the year, include 
Look Homeward Angel,  Brave 
New World, Plays of T. S. 
Eliot, and Across the River and 
Into the Trees.
Films On Modern India 
Shown On Coming Thursday
India will be the subject of three 
films, Mother, Child, Com- -j 
munity, sponsored by the Pitts- j 
1 burgh Film Council.
The films will be shown Janu- | 
ary 18 at 8:00 p.m. at the H. C. i 
; Frick School in Oakland. Admis- j 
; sion is free.
j ~--------------------------------------- ~ |
Chesterfield Company Names 
Mitchell, Cook On Campus j 
I Camel Cigarette Company an; nounced the appointment of John 
Cook and Dolores Mitchell as Car-inegie Tech student representatives.
As student representatives, they 
will distribute sample packages of 
Camels to campus groups through
out the year.
Rotary Foundation Award 
Given To Julia Weertman
Julia Randall Weertman, a Car
negie Tech graduate student, yes
terday was awarded the Rotaiy 
Club Foundation Fellowship for 
District 260.
She will compete next Febru
ary in Chicago with 200 other can
didates for 85 fellowships. Na
tional winners will receive a oneyear fellowship at the University 
of Paris.
Miss Weertman holds two de
grees and is studying for her Ph.D.
Y Cabinet Sponsors Party 
Next Sunday Evening
The freshman Y.M.C.A. cabinet 
wilf' sponsor a party to be held 
7-11:00 on Sunday evening, Jan
uary 21, at the Carnegie Union. 
Refreshments will be served, accompanied by entertainment, 
dancing and games. There will be 
no admission fee, and everyone is 
welcome.
Tau Beta Pi Schedule 
For Tutoring Service
The following tutoring schedule 
is now in effect:
Doherty's Writing Shown 
In Main Library Display
The main library is offering a 
display of the writings of the late 
President Robert E. Doherty. The 
exhibit is in the foyer of the 
library and can be visited during 
regular library hours till Janu
ary 20.
Diamond Found
A diamond ring was found 
after the CFP formal Saturday 
night. The owner may claim 
the ring by identifying it at the 
office of the Hotel Schenley.
RENT A TYPEWRITER
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR S10
TYPEWRITERS
All Kinds as Low as2950
AmericanTypewriier Co.
11 Wood St. (0.1.1019Convenient Parking  * w
S-101 
S-102 S-201
S-221 
S-222 
S-223 
S-224 
S-231, 
S-Z32 
S-403 
S-404 
E-401 
E-403. 406 
E-501 
E-505 Slide Rule
233
Wed.
Wed,
Mon..
Tues.
Tues.
Mon.
Tues.
Tues.
Mon.
Wed.
Wed.
Thurs.
Mon.
Thurs.
Mon.
Mon.
EH-120
EH-205
XH-211IH-210
IH-211
IH-208
IH-211
IH-210
IH-210
EH-207
EH-207
MH-105
MH-105
IH-215
MH-101Instruction 
Mon. IH-208
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m.
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 4:30 p!m. 
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m.
4:30 p.m.
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
If Your. Particular, See the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
Letfs go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasfy Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes St., Oakland 
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
,BOT EDT EUiBNNU RAUHTAI 
,YFCMP 1P1 90hPFoccc
YhS.. .Compare Chesterfield with the brand youve 
been smoking ... Open a pack... enjoy that milder 
Chesterfield aroma. 
And tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder. So 
smoke Chesterfieldsprove they do smoke milder, and they 
leave NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE.
LEADING SELLER 
IN AMERICA'S 
COLLEGES
tfcf-r  iy>t, LKMurt  Mruu To*a<xo C*
