VOLUME 53NUMBER 8WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1959
Spring Carnival, Topic 
|)f Debate In Congress
Last week, for the third consecutive meeting, Student 
Congress fell into a debate over the whys and wherefores of 
Spring Carnival, Also for the third time in a row, nothing
was decided.
No new arguments were intro
duced last week, and the debate 
again centered around three ma
jor points:
* There was general agreement 
that Carnival is too time consum
ing. Although the weekend itself 
was not begrudged, it was point
ed out that the preparatory hours 
far outnumbered the enjoyable 
ones. Arrangements for bands and 
general planning, such as decis
ions to be rrtade as to the layout 
of the cut, occupy a rather large 
committee for months, and for the 
vo weeks before Carnival, school 
marks and even the purpose of 
the weekend  to have a good 
time  are forgotten in the drive 
to design and construct a suitable 
booth or fashion a winning skit.
Second Complaint
The second major complaint 
was that Carnival is too expen
sive. This point need not be be
labored. One glance at a typical 
ipoth, buggy, or huge, huge 
Wophy is sufficient to convince 
even the most unrealistic.
Thirdly, it was argued that in
dependents do not derive much 
enjoyment from the weekend, and 
that an all-school event should 
not be open to only thirty per 
cent of the students.
It is interesting to notice that, 
strangely enough, out of the my
riad of complaints, no construcufe suggestions were voiced. 
Chairman Tim McGuire of the 
Spring Carnival Committee, sad
dened by subtle implications of 
h i s committees insufficiency, 
arose to humbly ask for sugges
tions as to how, then, might Car
nival be improved? Immediately
a hush fell over the assembled 
mass.
Too many cooks and no broth at all!
Maurice Falk 
Lecture Series 
Starts Today
National Defense Policy: The 
Challenge to American Society, 
is the topic of Dr. Samuel P. 
Huntington in the Maurice Falk 
Lecture he is presenting at Car
negie Tech.
Currently Associate Director of 
the Institute of War and Peace 
Studies at Columbia University, 
Dr. Huntington is the author of 
The Soldier and the State, pub
lished by the Harvard University 
Press in 1957, w'hich attracted 
national attention. He is rated by 
Professor Arthur Maas, Secretary 
of the Harvard Graduate School 
of Public Administration, as being 
the most interesting and original 
young scholar in the country in 
the field of American national 
government and as being a su
perb teacher, inspiring to under
graduates and graduates alike.
His recent research studies 
have provided material for a new 
book, American Military Policy 
which will be published next 
spring.
Schedule
I. Mobilization to Deterrence: 
The Search for a Military 
Policy Wednesday, Novem
ber 11GSIA Auditorium 
2:00 p.m.
II. The Competition of Stra
tegic Programs Thursday, 
November 12GSIA Audi
torium2:00 p.m.
III. Massive Retaliation and 
Limited War: The Uses of 
Force Friday, November 13 
 GSIA Auditorium  2:00 
p.m.
(Seminars for staff and students 
will be held in A.H. 246A, at 3:00 
p.m., following each lecture.)
Nine Straight
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Spring Carnival 1959  What Will It Look Like In I960?
The 1959-60 school year will truly go down in history as a year 
marked by serious thought and evaluation on the part of students 
connected with student activities.
Tartans Win Costly 
Victory From W & L
Student Congress 
Meeting Today
There will be a special 
meeting of Student Congress 
on Wednesday, November 11, 
at 4:30 p.m. in Porter Hall 
100. This meeting has been 
called to discuss special prob
lems concerning Spring Car
nival.
The Committee Heads meet
ing which was formerly 
scheduled at 4:30 in the Morewood Gardens dorm council 
room will be held in Porter 
Hall 100 following this spe
cial Congress meeting.
Ochs To Talk 
At Assembly
William Ochs, editor of the 
Chattanooga Times, will speak on 
November 17. His topic will be 
A Southern Editor Speaks His 
Mind. Mr. Oches, Princeton grad
uate, is a grand nephew of the re
nowned Adolph Simon Ochs, pub
lisher* of the New York Times 
from 1896 to 1935.
Mr. Oches joined the Chatta
nooga Times as a sports writer in 
1947, but left to join the New 
York Times in 1950. After as
signments in the London and Paris 
bureaus of the Times he was 
named chief of the Berlin bureau 
in 1951. He also served as an in
telligence officer in the European 
Theater of World War II and as 
an instructor in the European 
Theater Intelligence School.
Cheerleaders And 
Kiltie Band To 
Sponsor Pep Rally
At the start of the Tech season 
it was thought that if Dr. Baker 
could find a few players to fill 
key positions the Tartans could 
win half their games. But if any
one had asked Baker what his 
chances were of being 7-0-0 at 
this stage of the season, he would 
have probably replied none.
Of the 39 players currently 
listed on the Tech roster, 28 are 
sophomores and freshman, five 
are seniors and six are juniors. 
This is the type of season most 
coaches would write off as a re
building year. But with a com
bination of a little luck and a 
great desire to play football, the 
Tartans find themselves among 
the fewer than 30 teams still un
beaten.
One Game Left
Now one game remains between 
them and their first undefeated, 
untied season in history. To as
sist the team to a perfect season, 
a pep rally has been organized 
Friday night to help the team 
[continued on page 8]
Carnegie Tech won a costly victory from Washington 
and Lee last Saturday 20-16, and thus they will go into their 
finale at Forbes Field with a nine game winning streak. The 
Tartans will be opposed by Westminster, who has already
clinched a tie for the West Penn#----------------------------------------------
Arendas raced in to block another 
kick. This time the opponents re
covered, but it was still Tech's 
ball deep in the Generals battle
ground, Tech added its final score 
on a short pass to Arendas. Once 
again, there were no points after. 
Fourth Quarter 
Late in the fourth quarter. 
Coach Baker decided to salvage 
the players he had left, and sub
stituted the red shirts. The Gen
erals quickly moved to their sec
ond touchdown, behind a sixty 
yard screen pass and a six yard 
end sweep. The same end sweep 
added two extra points and the 
scoring ended at 20-16.
The taped-up Tartans will seek 
a share of the conference crown 
this week in a battle matching 
two of the best quarterbacks in 
the area. Jack Bestwick of West
minister has previously received 
an award as the outstanding small 
college back in this region. De
pending on the weather, of course, 
Saturdays game ought to provide 
an interesting duel over the airlanes between Bestwick and 
Muth.
Moral
Both teams will have their 
morale at a peek for this game. 
This game has developed into an 
intense rivalry for both schools. 
Westminister cannot possibly have 
forgotten last years contest, when 
a 5-2 Tech squad out-grappled 
an unbeaten conference champ in 
the mud and deflated Westministers aspirations for a bowl bid. 
This year the tables have almost 
been turned about, for Tech is 
unbeaten and there have been 
whispers of a possible bowl trip 
if. It is reported that West
minister is sending down a whole
title.
For the fifth time this season, 
Carnegie struck paydirt the first 
time it had possession of the ball 
 in this case the opening kickoff. The key play was one which 
has been effective all year. Muth 
passed into the flat to Poad, who 
lateraled to Zinni, who carried to 
the two yard line. Muth carried 
for the score two plays later.
Pete Schlegel came on the field 
to add his customary extra point. 
But a W&L lineman decided to 
block the kicker rather than the 
ball, and Pete became the first 
casualty of the day. Tech took a 
penalty of one-and-a-half yards 
and Muth added two extra points.
Soon after, Larry Arendas 
blocked an enemy punt and Mike 
Chuhran recovered on the six. 
Burrell scored Techs second 
marker, but there was no one to 
add the point after. After this 
Techs offense crawled back under 
wraps, in waiting for its confer
ence rivals and let the defense 
take over.
W&L used some fine running 
by its quarterback and left half 
to score a touchdown in the sec
ond quarter, and added two points 
by running. So at half time Tech 
held a 14-8 lead on the score
board, but trailed on the injury 
list.
Zinni Too
After Schlegels departure, Zinni 
left the game with a hip injury. 
Just before half time, his alternate, 
Furman Smith was sidelined with 
a collar bone injury. In the mean
time, Marty Poad had gone out 
with the recurrence of an old knee 
injury. During the game there 
were more injuries, less noticeable 
and too many to mention.
The third quarter was a standoff until the last play, w h en I convoy for the game
The Studs To Be Featured 
At This Weeks Record Hop
As a special attraction, this 
weeks Hop will present that new 
popular vocal group, The Studs. 
This is the same group that was 
so well-received at the Hop two 
weeks ago. In fact, the curtain 
calls exhausted their prepared 
numbers. This week an expanded 
program will be presented to 
please all their fans. To further 
enable you to enjoy the Hops, the 
committee is planning to present 
special musical entertainment 
weekly.
More and more people are at
tending and enjoying the Hops. 
The weekly attendance is now 
well over two hundred people. 
The participation from the dormi
tories, the fraternities, and Morewood is being supplemented by 
girls from Chatham and the near
by nursing schools. This influx has 
resulted in an even boy-girl ratio, 
which makes it very easy to meet
new people and to make new 
friends in this pleasant atmos
phere.
The record collection is being 
constantly expanded in accord
ance with the tastes of the par
ticipants. The Hop Chairman, 
Bob Schachner, reports that there 
is a decided preference for slow 
music, and his recent purchases 
are balanced with a greater num
ber of such records. He has also 
tried to purchase some of the old
er popular records. Suggestions 
for additional purchases are cer
tainly welcomed; a suggestion 
sheet is posted at each Hop.
Now that the opportunity is 
here, take advantage of it. The 
Tech Record Hop is an excellent 
place to meet people, dance to 
good popular music, and be en
tertained by a variety of talented 
personalities. Plan to attend reg
ularly.
C A R N E GTARTA
I EN

---------------------------------------------------

Pagf 2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 11, -959
CoJ Of OL UU
Sue Seckler
Clothing and Textile Major
Mendelssohn Concert Includes 
Two Premier Performances
Roland Leich, associate professor of music and conduc
tor of the Carnegie Tech chorus of the department of music, 
will be on the podium for The Mendelssohn Choir of Pitts
burgh when it presents its Fifty-first Annual Fall Concert at 
Carnegie Music Hall on Tuesday,? --------------------------------------------------
with orchestra seats at $2.00, first 
balcony at $1.50, second Balcony 
(student tickets) at 75cno re
served seats. Tickets are availa
ble at (the music department ofNovember 17. Mr. Leich has 
chosen an unusual program which 
includes two premiere perform
ances.
A newly discovered Mendels
sohn work which gives a musical j fice. 
setting to a poem, Die Frauen 
und der Saenger, by the famous iYIoi'tdlSOJl
German, Schiller, will have its 
American premiere on this occa
sionthe year 1959 marking the 
200th anniversary of Schillers 
birth and the 150th anniversary of 
Felix Mendelssohns.
The Three Rivers
"The Three Rivers by the late 
T. Carl Whitmer, which was spe
cially commissioned for the Pitts
burgh Bicentennial by Mrs. A. S.
F. Keister, will be performed for 
the first time at this concert under 
Mr. Leichs baton. Dr. Whitmer, 
who died last May, was a member 
of the music department of Chat
ham College and organist at the 
Sixth United Presbyterian Church.
Mrs. Keister, a member of the 
Mendelssohn Choir Board, was his 
former pupil.
C^offegiate 
ra 
C^afenclcar
By Maxine Brown
Its jazz time again. Saturday 
night at Carnegie Lecture Hall, 
Charles Bells Contemporary Jazz 
Quartet will take over at 8:30. 
Featured will be the music of 
Richard Rodgers.
In the upstairs Playhouse thea
ter, Epitaph for George Dillon 
starts Saturday night. Down
stairs, Who Was That Lady I 
Saw You With is going into the 
second week.
This is the last week to see 
W i 1 d Strawberries at the 
Shadyside Theatre. At the Guild 
is another movie directed by Ing
mar Bergman,^ The -Seventh 
Seal.
The music department will have 
a recital Sunday night at 8:30 in 
Exhibition Hall of the Fine Arts 
Building.
(Yawn.) Thats all. (Now to 
catch up on the sleep we missed 
cramming for mid-semesters. Hail, 
No-Doz!)
Engineering Theater
Engineering Theater will be 
held free of charge this Tuesday 
and every following Tuesday in 
Porter Hall 100 at 12:30 p.m. 
Movies are shown on subjects of 
interest to all engineering and sci
ence students.
The feature for Tuesday, No
vember 17, is The Four Mile 
Chesapeake Bay Bridge in sen
sational color and thrililng mon
aural sound.
Tartan Reporters
The new location of the 
Tartan Bulletin Board is the 
hallway in Webb Hall. All 
Tartan reporting assignments 
and any articles for the Tar
tan will be posted there.
Newman Club
There will be an informal mix
er on Friday night, November 13. 
The place is Cardinal Newman 
Hall. The time  8 till 12. Forget 
your studies and relax at this so
cial event.
Remember, November 20, 21, 
and 22 are the dates for the 
Hershey Weekend. For informa
tion call A1 Ogrodski at MU 2- 
8508 or Joe Ladik at HO 1- 5056.
If you cant go to Hershey, 
PIFCSO is sponsoring a spaghetti 
dinner and dance on November 
21. Plan to attend.
To Speak To IM 
Society Tonight
The Industrial Management So
ciety is pleased to announce that 
Mr. Robert E. Mortenson, gen
eral manager of WIIC-TV, will be 
guest speaker at 7:30 p.m. on 
Wednesday, November 18 in the 
GSIA cuditorium.
Last months speaker was Mr. 
Roger Borneman of National Sup
ply who discussed the field of 
data processing. Mr. Borneman 
agreed with standard predictions 
of spectacular growth during the 
next ten years in industrys use 
of computers, but did not foresee 
a stagnation at that point. Exten
sion of computers to smaller bus
inesses, perhaps through cooperMissa Brevis in Tempore Belli ation 'lus technological developby Zoltn Kodaly and works by ments such as smaller, less costly 
Greig and Elgar will complete thej specialized computers, will conprogram. The Short Mass by tinue to strengthen growth of the 
Kodaly was written in commem- industry.
oration of the liberation of Hun- This jncreases the demand for 
gary at the end of orld War II all engjneers abje to utilize com 
and was first performed in e puters n engineering applicationsbasement of a bombed-out cathe 
dral in Budapest in 1945.
Assisting 
Assisting the hundred ninetyas the presence of computers in 
firms become more common. 
Those who specialize in data 
processing itself are still getting
nine voice choir will be guest or- in near the ground floor of the 
ganist, Donald G. Wilkins, of the j industry and can anticipate ad
Calvary Episcopal Church and 
Temple Sinai. He is conduotor of 
The Duquesne University Choir. 
Featured soloists for the concert 
are: Lorenzo Malfatti, lyric bari
tone; William Philips, bass; Bar
bara Orner, contralto. Carolyn 
Holub will be at the piano and 
Dean Streator will be percussion
ist.
The concert is popularly priced
vancement as rapid as the indus
try growth itself.
As can be seen, the general im
part of Mr. Bomemans talk ex
tended beyond interest to I.M.s 
alone. Therefore, the pertinency 
of the program to all departments 
has caused the IM society to ex
tend an invitation to all inter
ested parties for any or all of 
the speaker program
Scotch 'n Soda
Scotch & Soda presently has 
openings for an advertising man
ager and a purchasing agent. The 
former is responsible for selling 
advertising for the S&S program, 
and the latter approves all pur
chases for the production. All in
terested students should apply at 
Box 258, Carnegie Tech.
Emerson Club
What factors should you con
sider in building a philosophy of 
life? Dr. Paul Ward, head of the 
History Department at Carnegie 
Tech, will offer one answer with 
World MindednessDetrimental, 
Unimportant" or Indispensable? 
at Sundays Emerson Club meet
ing.
Join area college students Sui^ 
day, November 15, for dinner at 
5:00 at the First Unitarian Church 
(Ellsworth and Morewood). Dr. 
Wards talk at 6:00 will launch 
this new series, which should vi
tally interest every thinking per
son. A social hour will follow the 
talk and discussion period.
l
Dorm Party
On Saturday, November 1 
there will be an After Six Coc 
tail Party and Dance in Donner 
Hall. The dane, jointly sponsored 
by Mens Dorm Council and Clay
more Clan, will feature the Red 
Bar Orchestra and will last from 
8:30 to 1:00. Dress is semi-formal, 
and the party will be open to all 
dorm residents.
Russian Film 0
Bill Pence has purchased the 
rights to a Russian Short Story 
and is planning to make a film of 
it. Any students interested in par
ticipating in this activity should 
contact Bill at MU 2-8765.
SENIORS, GRADUATES
iY IYoiYII'iYot dlSOiJO AYM EARlIEARiJO 
COEO dTMDMEET THE MEN FROM
O
I)
if
AVIATION CORPORATION
AMERICAS MOST DIVERSIFIED ENGINEERING FIRM
November 20
RESEARCH  ENGINEERING  MANUFACTURING
Electronics...............Electro-mechanics..................Ultrasonics.................Systems Analysis
Computers...............Automation and Controls.................Nucleonics.................Hydraulics
Instrumentation ........ Solid State Physics...............Combustion.................Metallurgy
Communications..........  Propulsion Controls..................Radar  ....................Structures
BENDIX AVIATION CORPORATION
Mvltltni located Throughout the United States
biacwflva Ottuu Fiihr Sido-, Detroit 2, Midi.
< >

---------------------------------------------------

VWednesday, November 11, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
President Warner Discusses Tech's Place In Education
Editors Note:
The following is the text of a statement issued 
by President Warner in November of 1958. It is 
reprinted here as a guide to campus leaders and 
rested students who are presently revising 
many of Techs extra curricular activities, and who 
are questioning the time spent on certain student 
activities. It is felt that a better knowledge of the 
uture role of Carnegie Tech will enable these 
students to do a more satisfactory job.
* * *
The philosophy of good higher education is 
almost as old as the hills and it has been ex
posed over and over again by great scholarteachers both before and after Cardinal New
man. It is as valid today in our nuclear-powered, 
sputnik-sprayed age as it was in the days of the 
water wheel and ox cart.
In the first place, good higher education is ed
ucation for the long pull. It is education for a 
life-time of learning and intellectual growth. 
Good higher education places emphasis on the 
intellectual development of the individual stu
dents to the limits of his capacity. It should pro
vide an understanding of our heritage and our 
society; a firm set of values; a mastery of the 
fundamental disciplines of one or more scholarly 
fields; an ability to define problems; the ability to 
marshall basic ideas, principles, theories and 
values to find an orderly solution to a new prob
lem or a new situation; the habit of learning 
ssjnething from each experience; skill in the arts 
ofcommunication; and the motivation for contin
uing to learn throughout life so that one may 
grow to full stature as a scholar or professional 
person and as a citizen.
The Right and the Privilege
Unfortunately there is no evidence of uni
versal dedication to the philosophy I have out
lined. It seems that with almost every rocket 
last-ofT or fizzle a new messiah appears with 
a panacea urging us to do something different 
about higher education right away. Indeed if 
one were to judge by the proliferation of ar
ticles and speeches on the subject by many who 
profess to speak for education, one would gain 
the impression that there is no time-tested basic 
philosophy of good higher education. From these 
sources, one would have the impression that we 
a^i dependent upon flashes of insight revealed 
only to the occasional unusually gifted education. 
I am convinced that this is not true.
Why, then, the confusion and the lack of uni
versal dedication to a time-tested basic philoso
phy? I believe special groups are using these 
times of crisis in world affairs to advocate higher 
education as a right, instead of a privilege to be 
xtended to those who have ability and the amon to learn and to grow in intellecetual caacity. I doubt that many of our publicly-suported institutions will be able to resist these 
ressures for almost universal higher education 
s a right, and for panacea programs advertised 
s being designed to beat the Russians. Some 
rivately controlled colleges and universities will 
ot resist the pressure but will yield to the 
hypnosis of numbers and special programs.
The Objectives
But out of all this confusion, I see the emerence of at least a modest group of colleges and 
niversities who by their performance and statd objectives are not yielding. They are showing 
n unwavering devotion to the time-tested phiosophy of good higher education.
To attain objectives consistent with this phitT'jphy involves two things:
(1) the design of curricula which provide 
for an optimum allocation of each students time 
and effort; and
(2) The encouragement of the type of teach
ing which will best accomplish their objectives 
and make the student self-reliant in learning, 
both during and after college.
Curricula in these institutions are not static 
because new knowledge is being discovered at a 
steadily accelerating rate in all scholarly and 
creative fields. And changes in society bring 
consequent changes in the needs of society.
The Carnegie Curricula
Carnegie is dedicated to this age-old philoso
phy of education and it is with this philosophy 
that we have set out objectives for liberal pro
fessional education in the fields to which we are 
devoted: engineering, science, various areas of 
management and industrial administration, the 
fine arts, and a few professional fields which of
fer special opportunities for women.
This philosophy of education is understood 
and subscribed to throughout Carnegie Tech by 
faculty and administration alike. It is the great 
unifying influence among the various colleges 
and schools on our campus. We at Carnegie Tech 
have given much thought during the past quarter 
century, and especially since World War II, to 
the development of our curricula so they will 
best serve our students and society. First of all 
we see the need for a solid core of liberal studies 
in the humanities and social sciences for students 
in all professional fields. Consequently, all of 
our curricula provide substantial time for these 
studies, and we have evolved an unusually effec
tive sequence of required and elective liberal 
studies. In this area I believe one may honestly 
say that Carnegie Tech took a position of lead
ership and that what we have done has had a 
beneficial influence on professional education 
throughout America.
But we have done much more than liberalize 
our curricula in designing them to prepare our 
students for the long pull. In engineering, for 
example, there is a new emphasis on basic sci
ence and on engineering science. Although our 
curricula today seem well designed to meet the 
needs of the individual student and society, Im 
sure there will be further changes because Car
negie Tech intends, as it has in the past, to keep 
in tune with the times.
We have done very well in getting the kind 
of teaching favorable to the attainment of our 
objectives. I know of no other college or univer
sity in which the faculty so universally has an 
interest in good teaching as at Carnegie Tech. 
The kind of teaching we need and want is a dif
ficult and time-consuming type of teaching. It 
requires an unusual amount of preparation and 
unusual skill in guiding the student to self-re
liance in learning.
To perpetuate this type of teaching the deans, 
department heads, and skilled teachers on the 
faculty must continue to give much help and 
attention to the new teachers who join our ranks. 
We have not achieved the best teaching that we 
know how to do, and I doubt that we or any 
other college or university ever shall. But teach
ing of the kind that we advocate is so very im
portant in fulfilling our mission of providing to 
young men and women of above average ability
that rewarding and encouraging it must have 
our attention year in and year out.
Contribution of a University
How well are our institutions of higher learn
ing fulfilling their other mission as centers of 
learning where new knowledge and new ideas 
result from research and other scholarly-creative 
activities? Here too, many colleges and facilities 
away from basic research to applied research and 
developmenta type of work which in my opin
ion can and would be more effectively done in 
industrial laboratories and the development lab
oratories of the government agencies. These in
stitutions fail to contribute their share of the 
new knowledge and new ideas which serve as the 
life-blood of all applications for our welfare and 
security. These universities have yielded to eco
nomic pressure and have submitted to a worship 
of large research budgets whether or not they 
support the type of work to which a faculty of 
scholars should be devoted.
On the other hand, those universities that 
have an unwavering devotion to the time-tested 
philosophy of good higher education are striv
ing valiantly to develop as great centers of learn
ing in which their faculty members are sup
ported in doing fundamental scholarly-creative 
work.
The Potential
Carnegie Tech has made excellent prograss 
during the past quarter century as such a center 
of learning. When one considers that 30 years 
ago Tech was primarily a group of undergrad
uate colleges, our progress is all the more re
markable. Today we can take pride in having 
on our faculty many scholars who enjoy distin
guished national and international reputations. 
In each field of engineering and science we have 
substantial programs of basic research and grad
uate work.
Our contributions through research to the be
havioral sciences and management sciences are 
truly outstanding. There is a steady increase in 
the creative-artistic productivity of our Fine Arts 
faculty, and we are encouraging research and ad
vanced education in biology, foods and nutrition, 
and textile science. We have not yet reached the 
limits of our potential for discovering new 
knowledge and creating new ideas. Our limita
tions are those imposed by our resources and as 
new resources come to us we shall go forward.
Summary
Finally, I would like to summarize the char
acteristics of those universities that are or will 
be providing the best in higher education, and 
are or will be our greatest centers of learning. 
These institutions will furnish us with new 
knowledge, new ideas, and leaders in all walks 
of life out of all proportion to their size or en
rollments.
First of all, they will be places where we 
have as much peace, quiet and order as can pre
vail in a good university. They will be places 
where first-rate salaries are paid to first-class 
scholar-teachers; places where creative scien
tists, engineers, artists, and other scholars can 
be supported in their search for new knowledge 
and new ideas without placing restrictions on 
the direction their inquiries should take; places 
where creative scholars take an interest in, and 
feel a responsibility for, teaching the young; 
and they will be places where intellectual 
achievement and professional integrity are the 
principal goals of both students and faculty.
Carnegie Tech intends to continue its role as 
just that kind of university.
Support The Tartan Team 
At The Pep Rally And Came

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 11, 1959
Editorial
How Not To Get Publicity
If you have a notice or story that you do not want published in the Tartan, it is sug
gested that you use one of the following well tested techniques.
Come busting into the Tartan office or make a desperate call to the Tartan around 
5:00 on Sunday, after the layout and pasteup has been completed, and hand in your slop
pily written article (which invariably must go on page one) without ever having previ
ously notified the Tartan Editor that you are going to do so.
Or to notify the Tartan beforehand and after assuring the Editor that your story will 
be in by the 7:00 p.m. deadline on Friday or the 2:30 p.m. deadline on Sunday to bring your 
article in late and proceed to complain about the fact that the room originally promised 
you has been given to someone else.
Or finally if you like to belong to a large group, be the individual who forgets all 
about the fact that the Tartan publishes on Wednesday and hand in an article pertaining 
to an event on Tuesday and then go on to complain that the Tartan is being unfair by giv
ing everyone but you publicity.
However, if you are one of the rare individuals who cares whether or not your story 
gets placed in the Tartan you might be interested in the following points (1) Have your 
copy for publication submitted by the Friday preceding the Wednesday of publication. 
You can send it to the Tartan via campus mail or pin it on the door of the Tartan office lo
cated on the third floor of the Union. If this isnt possible, at least call the Tartan Editor 
and let him know that something is coming. (2) If you promise to have an article in by a 
certain time and cannot do so, call the editor and let him know that you will be late. (3) 
Remember that the Tartan is published on Wednesday and that if you need publicity for 
a Monday or Tuesday event, have it in a week beforehand. (4) Remember that the Tartan 
reserves the right up to the last minute to edit or cut any story or article submitted. If 
the Tartan promises to run your article, it occasionally may be forced by unforseeable cirstances to change its decision. Consequently, attach your name and phone number to any
thing that you submit so that you can be notified of any such changes.
As a former publicity director of Scotch n Soda will certify, if you are the first one 
in with your story and have everything that you want before the editors eyes in black and 
white, you will probably get what you want.
%r
CURTAIN GOING UP!
by George B. Spehiri -*
Special Note:
If you are happy or unhappy with the Tartan dont sit around complaining to your 
classmates or teammates, let the Tartan know. Also if all those individuals who feel dis
pleased about the number of advertisements in the Tartan would each mail one dollar to:
Carnegie Tartan, Campus Mail, the staff will see what it can do to make them happy.
J.D.S.
r Readers Write... I
Student Support
At the present time, there are less than thirty unbeaten, 
untied football teams in the United States. One of these, for 
the benefit of the unenlightened students, is the Plaid of Car
negie Tech. This is the same team which started the year 
with the coaching staff glumly*---------------------------------------------
predicting an even split in eight 
games.
What caused such a complete
Student Body
I could go on from here in ram
pant enthusiasm over the teams
reversal of form? The emergence deeds; but rather than do this, I 
of Jimmy Muth as the  finest am asking the student body to
small-college quarterback in the 
district? The fine running of 
Frank Zinni, Court Burrell, and 
Pete Wilson? The stalwart line 
play of Yarbrough, Schultz, and 
Company? The exciting pass-re
ceiving of Arendas and Poad? Its 
true that each of these factors 
contributed a great deal towards 
the teams unbeaten streak, but 
even a combination of all- these 
couldnt have done it alone. The 
other ingredients were clearly 
evident in the come-from-behind 
victory over Geneva at Beaver 
Falls. It takes more than ability 
to come back from a 13 point de
ficit at half time; it takes guts, 
spirit, desire, or whatever you 
wish to call it. This is the quality 
that this years team has iif quan
tity. Perhaps they havent had the 
speed, the size, or the numbers of 
their opponents; but they have 
more than made up for it by their 
desire and their refusal to be 
beaten.
turn out this Saturday to see for 
itself. The team has certainly 
shown its spirit, and now its time 
for the rest of us to show ours. 
Undoubtedly Westminister is big
ger and deeper than Tech. The 
Titans will be out for revenge 
after having last years Tartan 
team spoil their undefeated sea
son. The Titan student body is 
planning a migration en masse to 
Forbes Field for this small col
lege finale. So lets not have the 
visitors rooting section outnum
ber that of the home team!
The team has brought nothing 
| but glory to Tech this year, and a 
vigorous display of support will 
show the student bodys apprecia
tion. There will also be a pep 
rally Friday at 8 p.m. in Morewood Place, which, along with 
the game Saturday, should be a 
must on every students schedule.
Gloria Cofsky
Carnival
Editor, the Tartan:
The reader who asked the ques
tion, Why Spring Carnival? has 
caused me much concernmore, I 
think, than he may have expected 
and more, I am sure, than he 
would have wished for, had he 
known its cause.
My concern is far less for his 
avowed problem than for his more 
eloquently expressed, though ap
parently undiscovered, problem 
with the Anglo-American lan
guage. Proper spelling, syntax, 
usage and taste in phrasing of our 
language would appear to be 
somewhat less than a daemonic 
obsession of our inquiring friend 
and I am not convinced that he is 
the better for his freedom. With 
it he has made mistakes in gram
mar, spelling or punctuation in 
eighteen different places within 
450 words or so, exclusive of com
pounded errors and crimes against 
logic in choice of words. Isnt this 
a very high ratio?
The real reason for my concern 
is that I believe this persons letter 
to be a manifestation of a state, 
present but too effectively ignored: 
the language of the United States 
is decaying. It has disintegrated 
at the edges and is already numb 
at the center. We, as college stu
dents, are potentially parts of the 
cultural core of the country, that 
is, of the numb center which, 
through ignorance and sloth is al
lcontinued on page 9J
The Seventh Seal
Each move of the cheesmen finds man closer to his ul
timate destiny. Such a chess game might be called a battle 
between the salvation of mankind and death, but there is 
really little doubt as to the outcome of the match. Death is
too strong an opposing force. It is^-----------------------------------------------(**
of an atomic blast.) There is 
plenty of stimulation here for us 
to see a present-day parable in 
this motion picture. Man tragically 
searches for something to believe, 
while all around him seems crush
ing, mystical, and ominous.
While not intended for the en
tertainment minded, The Sev
enth Seal remains a highly .re
warding experience for those '. ^ho 
welcome the ultimate in poetic 
cinema. There is a lot to say for 
a film so mature, intelligent, and 
profound.
Backstage
Those lucky ones who saw The 
World of Carl Sandburg saw the 
best theatrical production Pitts
burgh has seen in a long while, in
cluding the Lunts . ... Fine job of 
lighting Kings Men, Jules . . 
Keep your eye on the lookoul^or 
a new English comedy, The 
Mouse That Roared, opening 
soon at the Squirrel Hill. It opens 
with the torchbearing Columbia 
trademark lady scared off of her 
pedestal by a little mouse. What 
a takeoff it will be! . . . Congratu
lations to Tom Denis and Brenda 
Silverblatt for the fine work which 
led to their winning the coveted 
Apell Award . . . The slick 
flicks1 at Film Arts havent gen 
flickering too well lately. A month 
ago, the reels of Earth were 
mixed for the afternoon showing; 
and last week, out of three reels, 
two were mixed for the evening 
performance of Volpane. Whats 
up in that booth? . . . Legal prob
lems: Inexperienced Tech student 
vs. Veteran movie mogul. Watch 
for it . . . Tech drama independ
ents, Theatre Unlimited, will soon 
produce Mel Shapiros adapt ion 
of Crime and Punishment. Cecil 
Kitcat has a part . . . Heres a 
deal  student tickets at the 
Playhouse for only one dollar, 
every day but Saturday . . .
. . . Closing thought: A line from 
the Seventh- Seal: Love is the 
worst plague of all. I knew it all 
the time . . .
this game of chess which provides 
Ingmar Bergmans Seventh Seal 
with an allegory that unifies his 
theme of revelation.
Set in Sweden in the 14th cen
tury, The Seventh Seal sees a 
knight returning from the cru
sades. Weary, tormented, and dis
illusioned; our protagonist, with 
his squire at his side, searches for 
peace and consolation in God. The 
knight meets Death, robed in 
black, and challenges him to a 
game of chess rather than yield
ing to his purpose.
As the game progresses, the 
knight and his squire travel 
throughout their land and see 
mankind faced with plague and 
death. The Judgment Day is near. 
They see human nature under ex
treme pressure: priests burning a 
young girl for witchcraft, cour
ageous individuals facing death 
squarely, and those taking a little 
fun while they may. The tor
mented knight in his journey finds 
only synicism and bitterness, stu
pidity and bigotry, avarice, hy
pocrisy, hatred, disease, and death. 
He can find no hope, no faith, no 
meaning: even Death will offer no 
relief  only nothingness. The 
Seventh Seals only ray of hope 
is a small traveling acting family 
whom the knight saves; when all 
others must finally submit to 
Death at the conclusion of the 
game.
Imposing Artistry
The Seventh Seal rhythmical 
ly presents its allegory, images, 
and symbols. Even the lighting 
and photography aid in the tre
mendous force and imposing ar
tistry which Mr. Bergman pre 
sents. The acting is equally effec
tive  each person is a symbol. 
Many symbols are skillfully 
hidden, and all of the film does not 
come across easily. But those who 
apply deep imagination will be 
pleased to find scattered every
where the pieces to Mr. Bergmans 
fantastic puzzle. (For example, we 
see shots of smoke rising from fes
tering areas like the mushroom
rReadsWit
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone, MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor ............. ............................................................................... Jeremiah D. Snlliv '
Associate Editor .............................................. ........................................Frank J. Baloh
Business Manager ........................................................................................ Le Adlesberg
News Editor ................................................................................ ..................Jan Notoponlos
Assistant Newt Editor...................................................................................... phll James
Sports Editor ........................ ........................... ............. ............ Chock Vodvarka
Copy Editor ........................................................................................ Mary Ann Meltoa
Layout Editor............................................................................. ....................Jim Whalen
Features Editor  Georgia White, Photography Editor  Fred 
Beste.
Assistant Business ManagerMike Balsam, Advertising Manager
Miles Holander, SecretaryAudrey Dolan, Circulation ManagerBob Miller, TransportationBob Gregory.
News StaffSally Ganong, George Logan, Maxine Brown, Vince
Freund, Bob Nowak, Betsy Moss, Cindy Scott, Carla Blank, Andrea 
Nether.
Copy StaffSpence Anderson, Janis Geisler, Natalie Selkovits, 
Judy Slye, Ellen Moskel.
TypistsPatti Michael, Nancy Love, Nancy Joseph.
Circnlation StaffBill Russell, Pete Kost.
Second Class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

JUST A REMINDER . . .Goldenfeld's Market
JtIS NOW IN OPERATION WITH A COMPLETE LINE OF 
THE FINEST SELECT
Groceries and Choice Meats
Al 414 S. Craig Street
WITH PERSONAL and COURTEOUS SERVICE
VISIT US FOR ALL YOUR NEEDS
MARTIN GOLDENFELD. Prop.
'CATN E G ,f)
This page edited by Evening School Students of the
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editors...........Mary Alice Peterson and Eleanor Iwinski
Plans Completed For 
Buffet Dinner Dance
At the November meeting of Evening Student Council, 
?ans were finalized for the buffet dinner dance on November 
28 at the Mona Lisa Lounge. Tickets are available in Mr. 
McKelways office and all Council members have a supply
available. ?-----------------------------------  .
Ronald Craig reported that 
Christmas Assembly will be held 
on Wednesday, December 16, at 
Porter Hall from 8 to 8:50 p.m. 
The Westinghouse Male Chorus 
will be featured.
^Jim Morrisard has completed 
arrangements for the Evening Stu
dent Banquet for May 7, 1960 at 
the Colonial Manor. Dancing and 
a floor show will be included.
Dr. Ramsay presented sugges
tions for the proposed evening 
school publication. Its contents 
will be student, faculty, and com
munity directed. The success of 
the publication will depend upon 
the cooperation of the students,
m--------------------------------
faculty, and administration in pro
ducing a high quality paper.
Brenda Argosy was accepted as 
a new member to Evening Student 
Council.
Newman Club 
Showing Movie
A movie illustrating the life of 
John Henry Cardinal Newman 
will be shown Sunday, November 
15, at 7:30 p.m. at Cardinal New
man Hall under the sponsorship 
of CIT Evening School Newman 
Club. A donation of $ .25 will be 
accepted at that time. Refresh
ments will be served afterward.
Wednesday, November 11, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
Vic Sabol, Active Participant 
In Tech Nite Organizations
An active participant in many 
extra curricular activities for 
evening school students, Vic Sa
bol is well known to many on 
Tech Nite campus.
From Student Council, Vic has 
received seven awards for his 
work as banquet chairman, Plaid 
editor, vice-president and presi
dent in the past years. Presently 
he is student adviser to the Stu
dent Council.
Priase Award 
Last spring he received his most 
prized award, membership in the 
Cardinal John Henry Newman 
National Honor Society which 
Tech Nite Newman Club reserved 
for him in appreciation for the
work he put forth in forming the 
club in 1952 and the active part 
he has played as a member since. 
He assumed the office of president 
the first tv/o years of the club's 
existence.
In addition to his membership 
in Sigma Delta Phi Fraternity. 
Vic is a fourth degree member 
of the Knights of Columbus in 
the Holy Name Society.
Education
His education at Tech was in
terrupted for two years in 1954- 
55; when he was drafted into the 
army; nevertheless, he expects to 
attain a degree in Mechanical En
gineering within a few years.
Plii Gamma Pi 
Skating PartvC? JTickets for the Phi Gamma Pi 
Skating Party November 22, at 8 
p.m. at the Chateau Roller Rink 
in Kenmawr are available in Mr. 
McKelveys office or from mem
bers of the sorority.
Betty Jane Reitz, president of 
the sorority also has tickets avail
able in the chemical engineering 
department. She may be reached 
on extension 339 at MA 1-2600. 
Day or night students are wel
come to attend. Come and bring 
your friends!
Enter the 
WRITE 
(lontest
Im Tellin Yr, We Wont Sign Unless 
We Get A Guaranteed Annual Thistle.
I.J.KVUOIM TOACCO CO. WHSrO-S*tCl.
Old Dr. Sam has done it againbrought 
his dictionary up to date in terms of 
modern Winston usage.
Winston (win'ston).n. A cigarette with 
Filter-Blend on one end and a wise man 
on the other.
Taste (tast), n.What decorators argue 
about and Winston smokers enjoy. 
Filter-Blend(ffl'ter-blSnd) ,n. A happy 
marriage of art and science. Light, mild, 
flavorful tobaccos are artfully selected, 
then scientifically processed for filter 
smoking.
Slogau (sl'gn), n. (e.g., Wrinston 
tastes good like a cigarette should). A 
statement of disputed grammar but un
questioned fact.
Front (frunt), n. (used in conjunction 
w ith the preposition up ). The section 
of a filter cigarette where if it hasnt 
got it, it hasnt got it. Also, the section 
that counts, the section where exclusive 
Filter-Blend is to be found.
Boswell (bz'wl). Nickname for a 
guy who is always hanging around to 
cadge Winstons from you.
There is nothing which haft yet been contrived by man 
by which so much happiness is produced . .
Boswell's Life of Dr. Johnson, Vol. I, Page 626
Dr. Johnson turns another elegant phrase:
Sir, if it hasn't got it there? 
it hasn't got it!

---------------------------------------------------

Pai* CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 11, 195S
:L ROTC
Guidon
Editor: Ed Werner
ENTER THE 
PI DELTA EPSILON 
WRITE 
CONTEST
Symphony To 
Feature Premiere 
Of Nonos Work
The pair of concerts played 
last week-end by the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra 
featured the American premiere
of a bair-raiser Luigi Nonos
Open House Presents 
Purpose of ROTC
The 18th Missile Group, stationed at South Park, will 
provide the Nike Ajax missile which will'' be displayed by 
the military department in conjunction with its open house 
program Tuesday evening, November 1?.
The floodlit missile will be 
shown mounted in firing position 
on its steel launching frame. This 
exhibit will be in the east end of 
the faculty parking lot. This mis
sile is of the type that is presently 
guarding Pittsburgh and other 
large cities of this country. Al
though it is presently being 
out phased by the newer Nike 
Hercules, it is still used exten
sively by active units. Missiles of 
this type are presently obtaining 
better than 99% accuracy on fir
ings against aircraft.
Another, unexpected feature 
will be the display of an H-21 
helicopter. This is the type that is 
popularly referred to as the Fly
ing Banana. It is a twin rotor, 
single engine helicopter. If final 
permission is obtained, the heli
copter will be brought onto the cut 
sometime in the middle of the af
ternoon on Tuesday, November 17.
Exhibits
The rest of the ROTC display 
can be reached by going down the 
steps on the west side of Margaret 
Morrison to the second basement. 
After a warming cup of offee and 
a doughnut, the engineer and sig
nal corps exhibits may be viewed. 
These exhibits represent the ac
tual content of the advanced corps 
of ROTC. The engineers show 
their bridges, weapons, and other 
tools. The Signal Corps will show 
its radios and wire communica
tion equipment.
A very interesting film on this
countrys missiles will be shown in 
the activities room. The actual 
times of its showing will be an
nounced by signs placed at points 
around the school.
The purpose of the ROTC dis
play is to explain to the entire 
student body, especially those not 
enrolled in the program and those 
in the basic corps, just what 
ROTC is, what it does on this 
campus, and what its aims and 
purposes are. For this reason, it is 
hoped that as many as possible 
will attend the display, and pro
visions have been made for a large 
crowd.
Combat Films 
I To Be Shown 
Every Monday
The ROTC department is spon
soring the showing of combat films 
for all Tech students. The film 
series begins the last week of No
vember, and will include the Eu
ropean and Pacific Theaters of 
World War II, as well as the Ko
rean War.
The series will run eleven or 
twelve weeks. Showings will be 
every Monday afternoon at 4:30 
in Porter Hall 100.
Due espressioni per orchestra. 
For the benefit of musically eiudite readers, a hair-raiser in the 
remarkable dictionary of Maestro 
William Steinberg, is a term used 
to describe music of polyrhythmic, 
polytonal, or docecaphonic char
acter  in other words, mod
em.
Luigi Nono.has the distinction 
of being the son-in-law of the 
father of twelve-tone music, Arn
old Schoenberg. As such, he shows 
in his music the influence of his 
noted relative, but is less severe 
in applying the technique. The 
result is that Nono, in his early 
thirties, is the most played con
temporary composer in Europe 
and is the pride of his country, 
Italy.
Saltzman
Theo Salzman, principal cell
ist of the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra relinquished his chair 
to become the soloist in the 
certo of the evening, the beai 
Schumann Cello Concerto. Salz
man has led the fabulous Pitts
burgh cellos since the day 
came to this country eight years 
ago. Previously, in Australia, he 
founded the now famous Music a 
Viva String Quartet. He was 
born in Vienna and first took 
his instrument for no other rea
son than the fact that it 
needed to complete the family 
string ensemble. But, in spite of 
the somewhat dubious beginning, 
he soon showed an uncanny talent 
for the instrument and before 
was out of his teens was the 
cellist for the Vienna Symphony 
Orchestra. An avid sportsman, 
Salzman continually worried pa
rents and teachers alike by 
celling in sports not calculated to 
preserve life, limb, and 
careers. He was an amateur 
and founded the first professional 
hockey team in Viennas history.
Ralph Marterie, maestro of 
the band thats No. 1 with 
college students and No. 1 
with hit records, will be 
hitting college campuses 
again this fall as Marlboros 
musical ambaasador of 
good will. Dont miss 
Ralph and his Marlboro 
Men when they visit 
your campus.
.I"Tho"o
The better the makins, the better the smoke 
Youre smoking better when its Marlboro
At 4 a.m. in the morn
Lots of smoke filled the dorm
Filled with visions of great harm.
A smart gal pulled the fire alarm 
And Morewood coeds looking like sighties 
Tripped lightly downstairs in their nighties. 
Around the fountain they stood and shivered 
And in deep dread 4D did quiver.
We then confessed to our little crime 
And consequently were sentenced some time.
Saga Of A Crank Prank
An orginal by White and Rothstein
She went out and left her key 
So we girls had a look see.
Papers we stuffed from the floor to the ceiling 
With lots of enthusiastic feeling 
When she returned, lo and behold 
She saw all the papers big and bold 
Open the latch, down the hatch 
In the incinerator they go.
Rounding out the program was 
the Bruckner Fourth 
phony, subtitled the Romantic. 
This work is filled with 
sweeping themes and lyrical 
melodies. It is, largely, big 
music and shows the great 
miration the composer had for 
Richard Wagner.
Tickets for all performances 
 Friday evening at 8:40 and 
Sunday afternoon at 3:10 - are 
on sale at Horne's, Kaufmanns, 
and Gimbels in Pittsburgh. Re
servations may be made by calling 
COurt 1-5853. Both concerts will 
take place in Syria Mosque.
Seven thirty is the magic hour 
When they lock you in the tower 
From seven thirty Friday night 
Until Mondays early light 
You must stay all alone in your room.
All, all alone with your gloom.
So here we sit among our books 
Campused, like a bunch of schnooks.
The room gets smaller as we pace the floor, 
Gosh, well never do that any more.
NEW IWORLDI DICTIONARY
of the American Language, College Edition 
more entries (142,000) 
more examples of usage 
more idiomatic expressions 
more and fuller etymologies 
more and fuller synonymies 
most up-to-date
Avoilobl* at your college tor*
TH* WORLD PUBLISHING COMPANY
Cleveland and Now York

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 11, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPa 7
cjCitiIIIera lure^Jhe rt
War
Prologue:
walked out upon the night, 
placed His hands upon the glass, 
and peered in at his sky-light-shy, 
to see what had passed.
Theres a fear in the country, 
a fear thats lying still.
Theres a boy in the country,
4fc>oy whose mind is ill.
His mind cant walk right, 
theres a drag and limp, 
and a tiny crimson moan.
Even when theres singing, 
music  all are gay . . .
Theres a crippled heaviness 
ltat wont give way.
Run, run,
Run through the streets boy.
Red brick moasic, flying under feet, boy.
Run, run,
Run through the streets boy.
But why must he run?
$hy is life sunless, 
laughless, lacking fun?
Why has the puppy-dog-boy 
gone away?
Why has he killed the fairies 
and forgotten how to play?
Why? Because he built a toy.
A toy that has grown muchjtoo big for the boy. 
^toy that has climbed the stairs, 
and crept into every room.
A toy that took the sweet bells of life 
and jangled them out of tune.
The boy lived in a house 
that stood upon a hill.
A huge old mansion that had 
a haunted house chill.
^xe house was a dark 
stone, dappled-pony-grey. >
There bed-sheet ghosts and 
halloWeen goblins loved to play.
The Rooms were full of echoes,
By L. Battista
empty high carved caves.
Each corner had a cobweb tent 
where tenant bat still stays.
Music boomed from room 
to room, all through the day. 
March of the Tin Soldiers, 
or some other tune as light and gay.
Now the erector set 
had been a gift.
A present to give the boy a lift.
Of late he had been 
feeling rather sick.
The set was nice and 
it looked like fun.
So one day, as he felt 
better, he had begun.
But before he realized 
what he had done, 
he had built a toy that 
was so large and so tall, 
that it yawned and 
sprawled from kitchen to hall. 
From floor to ceiling 
and up and down.
Then up the stairwell 
and round and round.
Nut and bolted fingers 
pushed against every wall 
until girted black steel 
towered over boy and all
Tiny tin soldiers 
marched away, away.
No more music  nothing but 
loud quiet day after day.
Even the ghosts turned pale 
and ran away.
Im afraid, Im afraid, 
thought the boy.
What if someone 
steals the toy?
Whaf if theres a storm, 
look what it would destroy.
So his sleeping stopped, 
and he started waiting,
Watching him, watching her. 
Stiffening if there 
was even a stir.
Throwing out all the 
bomb-talk-clocks,
so there wasnt the sound 
of ticking for blocks.
But who can live 
in constant fear?
Go for a swim 
when a storms so near.
Somethings got to break.
So break boy, break!
Break from the house 
into the night.
You cant stand it any longer
 frightening fright.
run through the streets boy.
Red brick moasic, flying under feet, boy. 
Run, run,
Run till the bellows inside you 
are burning with fire.
Till each torn breath is a 
drink of desire.
Run, run,
Run, till you cant resist.
Till your mouths beaten dry 
by the winds smashing fist.
Run, run,
Run, till you lose your feet.
Run, till you fall, sprawling, 
gutter kissing the street.
So there he lay
at the corner of a street
marked one way.
As breath returned and eyes tore open 
and his head rolled back, 
he was a shadow' that was cast, 
time swimming, from the past.
There in the sewrer mirror, 
blinking red with neons glass, 
a nail hung, flesh clung across.
And there at the end of that street  
Thank God ... a church.
And a rain began to fall,
earth kissing and sweet,
as the boy walked
down that cross-shadowed street
whose sign read one way.*
God walked out upon the night, 
placed his hands upon the glass, 
and peered in at his sky-light-sky 
too see what had passed.
Editors Comments
re critic: ...........................................
^When Mr. Battista, a senior 
drama major, was initially ap
proached and asked whether he 
had anything he would like to 
contribute to the Tartan literary 
column, he gave me a folder-full 
of the poems he had written over 
the last yearand the admonition 
to choose whatever I felt was 
suitable. This choice was most 
difficult, and the result is that
0 e work that appears today is 
simply the first of the poems in 
the folder. I was very excited 
when I first read it, and, in spite 
of the danggr of misstating what 
the author meant, I should like 
to say why.
Several things I immediately 
looked for and found in this poem. 
First was authenticity of person
al emotion; then, provocative im
agery and lastly, for poetic theme. 
Mil three, I found, were present 
to some degree. The poets feelings 
sound forth loud and clear: this 
is his view of the world and men, 
of a society that has built itself 
toys that it no longer can control, 
and his dread of the fearfulness 
of the consequences. His attitude 
has the double charm of being 
essentially religious, though this 
is somewhat out of fashion these 
p's, especially in colleges, and
adds, to my mind an additional 
sincerity to his words. The use of 
the boy-image, the cold prohibi
tive house pervaded with the 
spirits of the past and the con
cept of the limited space totally 
filled by the thing which was 
made to be a toy and ended by 
being the blight of the boys life 
all these vividly portray Bat
tistas state of mind. In it, I 
heard the voice of our generation, 
of us who are young now and 
who dread the legacies of the last 
few years to which we will come 
heir within the near future.
Much else, I suppose, could be 
said about this poem, both in 
favorable and in critical apprais
al. I do not, however, feel that 
this is the place to say it and in 
conclusion I must again repeat 
that I was very moved by what 
Mr. Battista has written.
We shall, I hope, be able to 
have more of Mr. Battista s work 
in this column. For those of us 
who prefer live, that is spoken 
in contrast to written poetry, ad
ditional acquaintance with Mr. 
Battistas work can be had by go
ing to hear the poetry recitals he 
gives at the Cafe Cappacino on 
Walnut Street, once a week.
Michael Adler.
Contributions should be sent to 
Box 401, CIT.
WRITE
a Swingline Stapler no 
bigger than a 
pack of gum!
98*
(Including 
staple*
SWINGLINE 'TOT
Millions now in use. Uncondi
tionally guaranteed. Makes book 
covers, fastens papers, arts and
* crafts, mends, tacks, etc. Avail
able at your college bookstore.
SWINCHNE 
**Cvb" Stapler $ I.
INC.
10NG IJtAND CITY, Nfw *QK, N,
Do you crave cxcitement in your work? Want chal
lenge and the rewards that go with it? Are you the kind 
of guy who despises dullness and routine humdrum?
Well, youll get all the excitement you need by work
ing wi^h a Pennsylvania electric company. Theres notb* 
ing more thrilling-or rewardingthan helping a 
company double its output in ten years. And thats just 
what youll be doing.
MORAl: If you could faO for a challenging assignment, why 
not have a chat with the electric company interviewer when 
he visits the campus? Or write to;
PENNSYLVANIA ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION
STATE STREET BUILDING. HARRISBUR6, FA.

---------------------------------------------------

Pae 8CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 11, 1959
^Jhe ^Yjoclern SceneModern Music
By David Stock
Pittsburgh Symphony audiences were presented with a 
real challenge this past weekend with the American premiere 
of Luigi Nonos Due Expressione per Orchestre. The piece 
was received the way all modern music is received here: 
coldly. This is due in part, to poor education of the musical 
layman, by those whose responsibility it is to help co-ordi
nate the audience, and the performers. Audiences are con
ditioned, before they even enter the auditorium, to th idea 
that anything new and unfamiliar is automatically unintelli
gible and unenjoyable. Certain widely-read critics have an 
avowed dislike of modern muisic, and do all in their power 
to turn their readers against contemporary works before the 
first note is sounded. As a corrective to this narrow minded 
attitude, here are some suggestions on listening to a modern 
work:
1. Learn something about the composer and his work 
before the performance. Who influenced him? Where does 
he fit historically? What are his attitudes toward music? 
Do not become concerned about technicalities, however. The 
music itself is important, not the fact that it is atonal, twelvetone, or any other style.
2. Do not try to listen for melodies of themes. Instead, 
let the moods and emotions, the essence of the work, wash 
over you, without perconceptions.
3. Do not expect it to sound like Beethoven; retain an 
open mind. Once ones mind is set against new works, it is 
hard to change.
4. Hear the work more than once. This is vital; few can 
grasp a complex work on one hearing.
5. Ignore the critics. Form your own opinion only on 
\rour own reactions, without worrying about what is fash
ionable to enjoy.
These rules apply not only to symphonic music but to 
jazz as well. Many a new world of musical enjoyment can be 
discovered with the right approach. The fan of Bach can be 
moved by Bartoh, and the Dixielander can dig bop, if only 
the bounds of experience are not marked by a closed mind. 
------------------------------------------------------- r--------------------------------------------
Getting Into College
Becoming A Hysteria
Branding the national hysteria over getting into college 
as both dangerous and expensive, President Frank H. 
Bowles of the College Entrance Examination Board recently 
decried the current practice of buying extra instruction to 
prepare for tests, make extra ap-* ~
plications to colleges in which stu- i Because the prestige institutions
dents have little or no interest,. cjraw more applicants than they
and take the same test two oi can accommodate, President
three times in the blind hope oi Bow}es continued, there is a spillhitting an extra-high score w hich over Gf their candidates to other
will improve their chances. | colleges. It is this spill-over which
Colleges, swamped with appli- produces confusion, not only for
cants, increase their admission? the candidates themselves but also
staffs, search for better ways to for schools from which they
test and select, for ways to sepa- Come, and other colleges to which
rate the genuine from the casual they have applied, he added.applicants, for assurance as to how A ^ ... . .. Precautionsmany students they will actuallyhave when school opens. Admis- _ More and more young men and
sions costs go up, application fees | women take elaborate if hysgo up, and the actual efficiency of i terical precautioris against bethe admissions process goes down ! inS caught in this spill-over: they
as the useless duplications in- begin the application processcrease early, each student makes several
An Inflation applications to be safe, and all
, . , . , . applications are pursued withThe problem resembles mone- . , ,.  . , ... . a .. maximum vigor lest the second ortary inflation. And like inflation /. , . . i third chance to enter college beit threatens to erode the economy 1lost while the applicant concen
trates on the first.
Colleges too are caught up in
from which it arises. He de
scribed the national admissions 
picture in this manner: very little increase in space is available in j this hysteria. When an admissions 
the prestige institutions, ample ^lcer them do) knows
soace in the medium-cost good I^is candidates have made 
institutions, a good deal of newly-) two or more applications, he loses 
created space in technical and confidence in his ability to predict 
semi-professional programs, and i the size of his class. Not knowing 
excess space in the hard-pressed how many of his applicants prefer 
low-cost institutions. i his college, he does not know how_________ _______i. f many of his tenders of admissions
-m-m j will be refused. Not knowing, he is
y,., * on both horns of a dilemma:
/ If he under-admits, the college[continued from page 11 wj|j ^ jn financial difficulty for 
beat Westminister Saturday. i lack of tuition income. If he overAt 8:00 on Morewood Place, the j admits, it will be in physical difficheerleaders and Kiltie Band will j culty for lack of space. If he plays
begin the rally to support the | safe and admits from a waiting
team. In addition. Dr. Baker and I list, his best waiting-list students:
the football team will be present, will not be there when he gets
with several members of the team ! around to admitting them; they! 
and a prominent guest planning ; will already have accepted anto talk to the crowd. ! other institution.
A Deans Look 
At tlie Education 
Of Modern Woirfen
We must begin not with the 
question, What is good education 
for women? but What is good 
education? The worst excesses 
committeed in the name of edu
cation for women have resulted 
from considering thom first as 
women, and only secondarily, if 
at all, as individuals.
Writing for the Carnegie Alum
nus, Dean Margaret F. LeClair of 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege, draws attention to the rev
olutionary change in womens 
place in our society and the new 
educational obligations resulting.
More Women
Dean LeClair calls attention to 
estimates of the National Man
power Council which indicate 
that half of the ten million, more 
workers our economy will require 
by 196r will have to be women. 
We might pause for a moment 
to. contemplate what would hap
pen in our economy if all em
ployed wives suddenly quit their 
jobs.
The multiple roles demanded 
of the modern woman, the ten
sions as well as the rewards in
volved in her new opoortunities 
for personal fulfillment, lie at the 
heart of plannin  her college ed
ucation.
Implications
The implications of the new pat
tern of women's lives today are 
threefold according io Dean Le
Clair: a reaffirmation of the
values of a liberal education, the 
obligation of the college to in
clude prepr ration for a job in the 
undergraduate curriculum, and 
the need to strengthen our coun
seling and guidance services.
Within the framework of this 
liberal education Dean LeClair 
emphasizes the significance of 
preparing the woman student for 
a job immediately on graduation 
without the necessity for addi
tional formal training. The busi
ness or industry which is eager 
to provide technical training for 
the young man with a liberal arts 
degree considers the woman a poor 
risk unless he can immediately 
do productive work. Ihe likeli
hood that she wfTl interrupt her 
career for mariiage makes this un
derstandable, but it obligates the 
college to equip her for a good 
beginning position.
Unrealistic Picture
Since most freshmen in Dean 
LeClairs' experience have a most 
unrealistic picture of things to 
come (some resemblance to 
womens  world when grand
mother was a girl ) she under
scores the importance of improv
ing and extending counseling 
services.
When we as college teachers 
are finally willing to commit our
selves to the truth that wom
ens family responsibilities chal
lenge their intellectual powers as 
well as their endurance, when we 
accept the reality behind the 
words we so glibly speak (but 
we are not quite* ready to be
lieve) about the prime import
ance to society of women in their 
roles of wives and mothers, per
haps we shall be able to convince 
our women students.
-mu**'"*'"
Playhouse Starts 
Special Student 
Discount Plan
The Pittsburgh Playhouse has 
announced a new policy pertain
ing _to ticket rates for all school 
and university students
Effective immediately, any stu
dent, upon presentation of his I.D. 
card at the Playhouse box office, 
may obtain one admission to any 
regular dramatic production for 
$1.00. The admission for a music
al production is $1.50. These rates 
are good only Monday through 
Friday. It is recommended that 
reservations be made in order to 
insure availability of good seat 
locations.
Current Play
The Playhouse is currently pre
senting the Norman Krasna com
edy-hit Who Was That Lady I 
Saw You With? in the Craft 
Ave. Theater. The production, j 
now in its second hilarious week, j 
features some of the best scenic I 
; effects in Playhouse history.
Saturday evening, November 14, j 
the Playhouse Theater Upstairs ; 
officially opens its second season j 
with Epitaph for George Dillon j 
by John Osborne and Anthony 
Creighton. Osborne (author of 
Look Back in Anger and The 
Entertainer) and Creighton have 
fashioned a gripping drama of a 
would-be playwright and his 
struggle to escape the environ
ment in which he lives and which 
tie hates.
Tickets for all Playhouse shows 
may be reserved by calling MAyflower 1-4445.
WRITE
Cameron Choir 
Keeping Busy
In preparation for their fall 
concert on December 10, ttQ 
Cameron Choir will be making 
appearances in the next two 
weeks at local high schools. On 
November 13. they will appear at 
North Hills High School and on 
November 19 at Gateway High 
School.
The fall concert on the tenth 
in GSIA Auditorium will feature 
Lincoln Lyrics, a biographical 
sketch of Abraham Lincoln coni* 
posed by George Frederick Mc
Kay, and a medley from My 
Fair Lady.
Techs Cameron Choir which 
was formed in 1952 is under the 
direction of Mr. Camp. This year 
they feature an increased reper
toire of songs, both classical and 
popular.
Have Breakfast at
"The Woodlawn"
NOW OPEN AT 7:00 A.M.
MORNING SPECIAL
Coffee 5c
7 to 9 A.M. ONLY
lwnCf"5ncv g"ICfT 
pf"Cncf
Domestic or Foreign Points
Arrangements made for 
Individuals -or Groups to
Charters for Special 
Events also Available
MA. 1-3500 x 7205 6 
MA. 1-5915
In Bldg. E, Schenley Apts.
WBESrr
WEBSTER'S
NEW WORLD DICTIONARY
of the American Language, College Edition 
more entries (142,000) 
more examples of usago 
more idiomatic expressions 
more and fuller etymologies 
more and fuller synonymies 
most up-to-date
Available at your collg loro
TH WORLD PUBLISHING COMPANY
Cleveland and N*w York

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 11, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 9
Carnival
[continued from page 4] 
% lowing the language to become 
what the unlearned (and even 
more, those defeated rejects and 
respectors of learning who admit 
to being beaten) would have it 
an unsyntactical combination of 
sounds capable of being uttered 
with the same degree of satisfac
tion and acceptance by members 
of any and all social, cultural and 
^intellectual strata.
We are thoroughly vulgarizing 
our language, making of it a spoken 
one, exclusively. Do we think 
that there is only one level of lan
guage? When letters written as 
though they were spoken make us 
wince, I would expect our delu
sion to be vanquished. But our 
delusion is not one to be so easily 
^'driven out. It is younger than the 
century but nevertheless older 
than we, and has every moment of 
its life strengthened with the 
strengthening tradition of incogitant speaking which the lower 
classes brought as their gift to 
cultured society when, on hearing 
the arguments of democracy, it 
admitted them. m 
 Just as obvious as the lack of 
lingual sense among supposedly 
cultured people is the need for it 
as a prerequisite of literary aware 
ness, as an aid in understanding 
fine sentiments and expressing 
them and, above all else, as a 
clear, concise and logical means of 
communication. The assumption, 
so common, that the ability to 
write is a natural, even universal, 
talent is utterly false. We must 
 pay attention, close attention, to 
the construction of our language 
if we are not to return to a stage 
of lingual development in which 
we shall seem to foreigners to be 
saying only bar-bar-bar.
I submit this for publication, 
not as the work of literature 
which its fiealthy dimensions 
might suggest, but as a humble 
reproof in advance to writers of 
even less ability than myself who 
'J& wish to make public statements. 
Let us all still our pens until we 
can follow the basic rules of the 
medium. After all, wincing at 
newspapers is hard on ones eyes
Donald A. Hawkins 
Arch.
Editor's Note:
Anyone know what the man is 
trying to say?
The IBM Machine Broke Down! 
Now We'll Never Have the Grades 
Heady Before Thanksgiving!
Build Your Own Hi-Fi
Ifs Easy , . Its Fan . . Its Economical . . Even a Child Can Do It!
MODEL PM 3A
Hi Fi FM Tuner Kit 
$excellent performance 
. .. high styling ... an 
outstanding buy.34
.25
MODEL EA2
Bookshelf Amplifier & 
Preamplifier Kit35
.95Attractive 12 watt com-  binatlon unit provides w all controls for your system. Frequency response: 20-20,000 cps.
NO ELECTRONIC EXPERIENCE NECESSARY . . . EASY INSTRUCTIONS
See the full range of equipment now available at the TRI-STATES EXCLUSIVE. AUTHORIZED DEALER . . . BUDGET TERMS AVAILABLE
dfw h"fIkfI5c d"nwk 
vou cIw kffp nw vou" "oom!
2:0 T::ARN88M TANG has a 
real wake-up taste for great getup-and-go on the football field. I 
drink two glasses every morning 
and watch out!
isSALLY SORORITY: TANG 
really great mornings. I always 
have a jar in my room; its so 
much easier than squeezing or 
unfreezing orange juice.
8Nvl 8NttlM n have such trou
ble getting up for breakfast that 
a fast glass of TANG gets me 
through my first class so I can 
have a late breakfast.
NEW! INSTANT!
Just mix with cold water!
HELEN HOME EC.: TANG is the 
perfect breakfast drink. It con
tains more Vitamin C and A than 
orange juice and is so handy to 
store on any shelf.
MORE VITAMIN C 
THAN ORANGE JUICE!
A product of General .Foods Kitchena
WANTED: Characters and captions for campus TANG-ites (like 
above). Must relate to TANG. Will pay $25 for every entry used.
GET TANG FOR YOUR 
BOOKSHELF SOON
TANG has real wake-up taste, 
more vitamin C than fresh or 
frozen orange or grapefruit juice. 
Plus vitamin A. TANG keeps 
without refrigeration so you can 
keep TANG right in your room.
Address: TANG College Contest, Dept. GRM, Post Division. Battle 
Creek, Mich. (Entries must be postmarked before Dec. 15, 1959.)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 11, 1959
More Pic tu res... 
More Pages
More Features
MM

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Roving Reporter
The question posed this week by 
the Tartan roving reporter was: 
What is your opinion of the build
ing program at Tech? In the fol
lowing replies the consensus is 
that almost everyone is anxious 
for the completion of the work 
and the opening of the new build;4t|s.
Becky Hershorin, sophomore 
math: Tho-yre going to make
Tech quite the campus. Theyre 
going to make it seem less and 
less like a city school and more 
like a complete college unit.
Phil Beck, freshman chemical 
engineering: Probably theyll be
Congress Debates 
Proposed Spring 
Carnival Budget
a great boon to the campus. 
Therell be more room; the facili
ties will be better. It will be more 
centrally located on the campus. 
It will give the campus a modern 
look.
Barbara Dowell, freshman P & 
D: I feel that the new building 
program from all indications 
should prove to be very good and 
benefiicial for years to come.
Jim Phillips, senior M.E.: I
wish they had built them five 
years ago.
Pat Lowner, junior business 
studies: Im sorry Im not going 
to be around to enjoy it. They 
should be nice surroundings to 
work in. Its giving us a more 
modern-looking campus.
Eric Stusnick, senior physics: I 
havent seen much of it yet but it 
looks like work is coming along 
OK execept for a slight shortage 
of steel. It looks like it is going 
to be an improvement over what 
we have now.
with Mr. Berman.
Georgetown University Presents:
iKTERCOLlEGSATE JAZZ FESTIVAL
The First Open Competition for Young Jazz 'Groups
Featuring, Among Other Prizes 
DATE AT THE 1960 NEWPORT JAZZ FESTIVAL  BOOKING 
AT BIRDLAND  RECORDING OF AN LP TO BE RELEASED 
BY A MAJOR COMPANY  INDIVIDUAL AWARDS
Groups to be Judged by such Authorities as 
DIZZY GILLESPIE and DAVE BRUBECK
No cost to applicants. $25 award for anyone responsible for entry of a 
group that becomes a finalist. For further info write: Intercollegiate Jazz 
Festival, Georgetown U.. Wash. 7, D. C., or contact this newspaper.
ESSO RESEARCH works wonders with oil
Helping you jet there sooner!
Wdnesday; November 11, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 11
You get your "welcome home hug hours soonerin todays jet age. And the jet age itself arrived here 
sooner, thanks in part to a special oil developed by Esso Research. Every jet engine throughout the free 
world grew up on it. And most pure jets flying today still use it and it alone. For happy 
homecomings or happy motoring ., ESSO RESEARCH works wonders with oil.Csso
WECS Schedule
Wednesday, November 115:00 p.m.Latest popular music, in
cluding the top ten tunes of the country, presented by Mr. Tom Whit
ing. Also Mondays and Fridays at the same time.
Saturday, November 141:30 p.m.-Techs last game of the sea
son. Westminster vs. C.I.T., broadcast live by WRCT, 600 on every 
Tech dial.
Monday, November 169.00 p.m.Introducing Mr. Roger Simon, 
jazz enthusiast and promoter, and his show, Swingers Inc. If you 
enjoy good jazz, be sure to tune in to this show. This weekEuro
pean Jazz.
Monday, November 1611:00 p.m.'Night Train, with Rene 
Cohen, presents Tnside Shelley Berman, the latest in American 
beat humor! Take an enjoyable break from studies and laugh along
At the November 4, 1959 meet
ing of Student Congress, a heated 
discussion arose over the'budget 
for Sp: ing Carnival. Special em
phasis was placed on the proposed 
band budget.
It was proposed by the com
mittee that a budget of $7700 be 
^propriated for the procurement 
of big-name entertainers for the 
spring weekend. (Approximately 
$4500 was spent for this item last 
year.) To cover the increased cost, 
the price, of tickets would be 
raised to $7.50 per couple. If too 
few Techites were to buy tickets, 
public sales would be necessary.
Congress members rendered 
various opinions toward the pro
posal. Some representatives felt 
O-t it would involve pricing the 
weekend out of the range of many 
students. Others felt that the in
creased cost would be warranted 
by the greater enjoyment of popu
lar entertainment.
Since a decision must be reached 
quickly if the committee is to act, 
a special meeting of Congress has 
been called for today at 4:30, Por
ter Hall 100. Interested members 
of the student body are urged to 
contact their repre
order that the dethe best interests of
MEN
DICTIONARY
nl the American Language, College Edition 
^ more entries (142,000) 
more examples of usage 
more idiomatic expressions 
more and fuller etymologies 
more and fuller synonymies 
most up-to-date
Available of your college dor
THC WORLD PUBLISHING COMPANY
Cleveland and New York

---------------------------------------------------

Pa 12CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 11. 1959
Carnegie Tartan
Varsity
BB Team
Looks Good
IM Football
Playoffs Still
In Progress
BSR & TDP
Take Leagues 
In Co-ree VB
In reply to the hundreds of 
threatening letters I have receiv
ed, I will name my all-time, allstar co-rec volleyball team:
Beatrice Beastbittle - 5-l - 
287 lbs. New Mexico School of 
Agriculture and Mines. Fans often 
remarked, Shes all over that 
court. Coach once said of her, 
"She plays like a dream but un
fortunately doesnt look like one. 
Thrown off team after first game.
Lola Quatious - 5-4 - 117 lbs., 
37-22-37. Male teammates refer
red to her as quite a set-up. Re
mained idle for five nine-month 
periods during four year career.
Sara Scrogdart - 6-8 - 216 
lbs. No college experience. Flunk
ed out of high school. Quite a 
spiker  volleyball and orange 
juice.
Doris Darndwiddle - East Watecka and North Zapsburg Joint 
Teachers College. Played 17 years 
before learning the rules. left 
school as a sophomore.
Seymore Daily - Played over 
1,000 games for Western Penn. 
Got quite a shock after last game.
Ben Dover - 5'-Vz - 98 lbs. 
Loved orange juicemarried Sara 
Scrogdart.
A1 Kohol - East Liver pool 
School for the Mentally Retarded. 
Played four years without once 
winking at member of opposing 
team. Incurable.
Arthur Mometer - 29 A.D.
Touched the net 1417 times in 
one game. Upon hearing of the 
rules change which he caused, he 
remarked, I quit.
Coach Matt Tress - Took spec
ial pains to tutor female players. 
Coaching record shows 3 wins, 
89 loses, 6 children. Last week, 
the regular season ended with two 
full nights of action. ^
TDP Win National
TDP-Chicks was the only 
group in either league to com
plete the season undefeated. They 
kept their mark of not losing a 
single set by defeating both New
man B and DU. With their 5-0 
record, TDP-Chicks rate as a 
team to watch in the playoffs.
A fine SAE-DDD team roared 
into second place by virtue of a 
trio of victories. They defeated 
Newman B. DU was next to 
fall by a 15-3, 15-10 score. SN 
Gold DG extended SAE-DDD 
before bowing 15-4, 12-15, 15-8. 
The latter game proved to be 
crucial as SN Gold-DG wound 
up in third place, only one game 
behind the victors.
BSP Win League
The American League race was 
decided by a post-season playoff. 
SAE-TK knotted the league with 
a victory over BSP-Coeds 15-5,
15-7 in the final regular season 
game. This necessitated a playoff 
between the two teams. However, 
the tide changed as the spirited 
BSP-Coeds won the match, 15-9,
16-14 and the league race as well.
SN Black KAT ended the sea
son with three straight wins but 
were unable to make the playoff 
because of a poor early season re
cord. In one of the most exciting
This Year Tech May Have Best 
Basketball Team In the District
Tartans courtmen are already showing a trenendous im
provement all. around compared with last years squad. The 
return of two key men to regular play plus the services of 
three talented freshmen all added to a veteran team with 
another years experience, and gives coach Mel Cratsley good 
reason to hope for a very successful season. The Coach said 
of last years disappointing 9-15 record that we just didnt get 
the breaks necessary to win the tough ones. The loss of sharp 
shooting Bill Soffa (out with a bad back) didnt help matters. 
However, the Coach really seems enthused about his boys 
this year.
Return of 
Bill Soffa, 
make only a
Soffa and Flynn
who was able to 
limited number of 
appearances last year, is back on 
his feet again and reported in 
better form than hes ever been. 
Coach Cratsley says Bills shoot
ing is deadlier and hes also play
ing a strong defense (something 
Bill didnt do during his memor
able Freshman year).
The return of playmaker, ballhawk Mike Flynn, says the 
Coach, is perhaps the greatest 
single boost the team has had. 
Mike, now one of thg teams co
captains, unfortunately was out 
for the past two seasons, but has 
some back showing all around 
improvement. He shoots more ac
curately, dribbles better and his 
playing in I. M. ball certainly 
didnt hinder him any.
Better Off the Boards
Veteran boardmen Stan Skalka 
and Andy Komer are reported 
playing at peak performance. 
Stan, who is the teams other co
captain, has added more weight 
which, coupled with his height 
(6 feet, four inches), makes him 
even tougher off the boards than 
last year. Skalkas shooting has 
improved tremendously, and hell 
be putting in those chippies this 
season.
As fqr Komer, who was the 
teams top scorer last season, he 
has picked up the years experi
ence and is using it to great ad
vantage. His patented jump shot 
is almost unstoppable. Coach 
Cratsley will be relying heavily on 
the rebounding of these two big 
boys.
Fifth Spot
With four of the five starting 
positions pretty well filled, Coach
games of the year, SN Black 
KAT squeezed by SAE-TK 15-11, 
2-15, 17-15. In the final set the 
winners stormed back from a 9 
point deficit to pull out the win.
Playoffs
The semi-finals offer the TDF 
Chicks-SAE-TK and BSP-Coeds-SAE-DDD games. Winners of 
each game will clash head-on in 
the finals. Thus, it shapes up as 
quite an ending to a fine season.
Final Standings
National
TDP Chicks.....................5-0
SAE-DDD ...........................4-1
SN Gold DG ...................3-2
ATO Frat.........................2-3
DU ..........................................1-4
Newman B.......................0-5
American
BSP-Co-eds .....................5-1
SAE-TK ...............................4-2
SN Black KAT...............3-2
ATO Stuff .......................2-3
Newman A.......................2-3
ATO-KKG ...........................0-5
Cratsley still has to find that fifth 
man to Complete his well rounded 
starting team. So far little Tom 
Huff seems to be the leading con
tender. Huff, a mere 5 feet 6 
inches, possesses some superior 
dribbling techniques and has re
cently developed a very accurate 
Hennon type shot.
Also in contention for that fifth 
spot are both Dom Perotta and 
Bruce Brosius. These two boys 
are very capable graduates from 
last years successful freshman 
team and do have some varsity 
playing time under their belts.
Stronger Bench
This season Tech promises to be 
especially strong in one depart
ment in which they were always 
lacking . . . namely the bench. 
Six foot one inch George Frazier 
(leading scorer in his high school 
district) is a very agile backcourtman. Though hes only a fresh
man, Cratsley thought him ex
perienced enough to play varsity 
ball. Other freshman that will be 
playing with the varsity are. 6 feet 
3 inches Jim Gohacki and 6 feet 4 
inches Peck McKnight (the 
latter is the son of Coach Mc
Knight of Indiana S. T. C. . . . our 
first opponent.)
Tougher Opposition
The opposition this year will be 
somewhat tougher than past sea
sons with Penn State, Pitt, Duquesne, and a contest with the na
tionally powerful St. Francis of 
Loretta. These are in addition to 
the usual meetings with such 
tough opponents as Westminster 
and Geneva.
Coach Cratsley has good reason 
to believe that this year the spec
tators will witness the best shoot
ing and best all-around playing 
squad hes seen in his ten years 
as coach. Barring any serious acci
dents or mishaps the spirited Tar
tan hoopsters should at least fin
ish with a 12-12 record, and with 
the breaks Coach Cratsley was 
speaking of plus some well-deserved support by the fans, Tech 
could easily reverse last years 
9-15 record.
Debut for the Tartan courtmen 
will be Tuesday, Dec. 1, 1959, 
against Indiana State Teachers 
College on our home court. 
Schedule of Techs Home Games
Opponents Dates
Indiana S T.C.........................................12- 1-59
St. Vincent............................................12- 7-59
Allegheny ..............................................12-18-59
Penn State............................................ 1- 5-60
Grove City ............................................ 1-11-60
Duquesne ............................................. 2- 6-60
Westminster.......................................... 2-10-60
Geneva .................................................. 2-13-60
Slippery Rock .................................... 2-16-60
Pitt.......................................................... 2-23-60
Waynesburg ....................................... 2-24-60
Wash. & Jeff.........................................2-27-60
limt MAN on
Look Jim Baker. Youre bigger than the whole Westminster 
team. If we score a touchdown, we can squeak out another victory, 
13-12. Come on Big Boy, show your stuff; I sure would like to 
finish undefeated for the first time in our football history."
IM Playoffs 
Halted By Rain
IM football playoffs were limit
ed to two games last week be
cause of the weather. Even the 
two games that were played were 
fought oyer a muddy, rain-soaked 
field throughout the fourth quar
ter.
MGATO
The Met Grads kept right on 
marching towards their second 
unbeaten season in the same num
ber of years, knocking ATO A 
out of championship contention 
24-18. ATO could never quite 
catch up with the Grads who ran 
up 16 points before the first half 
ended. Ben Patz found holes in 
middle of the ATOs pass defense 
and went for a touchdown early 
in the game. Bill Novak started 
the ATO ball rolling in the first 
quarter and was the joy boys 
sparkplug throughout the game. 
Both teams were bogged down in 
the fourth quarter by the heavy 
rain and darkness.
BTPGSIA
Beta Theta Pi, second place 
team from the Steeler League, 
pulled off the first upset of the 
playoffs defeating the Eagle 
Leagues number one squad GSIA 
34-16. The Betas overcame a 13- 
12 deficit at half and flew on past 
GSIA as the rains began. The 
victory gained a semi-final berth 
for the victors who will play the 
winner of the SAE Purple-Kappa 
Sig game.
This weeks schedule, weather 
permitting, should include most of 
the playoff games. First round 
games included SAE Purple-Kap
pa Sigma and Sigma Nu-Delta 
Tau Delta. The winner of the lat
ter will meet the Met Grads in the 
semi-finals.
W.A.A. Volleyball
Club volleyball season has 
begun. Any girl who is inter
ested in learning more about 
volleyball or enjoys playing 
is asked to come to practices 
Monday and Tuesday at 4:30 
in the womens gym.
WPC Holds
Cross-country 
Meet Friday
The West Penn Conference 
cross-country meet will be held 
Friday afternoon at 4*00 p.m. on 
the Schenley Park course. Geneva 
is a slight favorite to wrest ie 
team championship away from 
Westminster, even thoujl - the lat
ter squad won the dual. meet be
tween the colleges by a 28-29 
score.
Three individuals should stand 
out: Paul Sanders of Westminster; 
the defending champion, Bruce 
Dobras of Tech, and Jim Wilson 
of Geneva.
Others who might make the top 
ten are Truxell, Shaw, and Pekich 
of Westminster, Melrose and 
Meeker of Geneva, Bens of Grove 
City, and Glenn Klepac of Tech.
Techs Chances
Techs chances of winning were 
increased last week when the en
tries were limited to five from 
each college. In spite of the 
change, Pat Chamay, Bill Anc jrson, and George Caldwell must be 
at their best if they hope to beat 
either of the co-favorites.
15-41 Victory
The harriers ended their dual 
meet season with a record of 6-5 
last Thursday when they lost to 
West Virginia, 17-42.
Bruce Dobras salvaged fourth 
place, not far behind the second 
and third Mountaineers., 
Spelsburg of WVU was far out in 
front as he set a new course rec
ord of 21 minutes and 47 seconds.
The harriers recorded their 
widest margin of victory of the 
year in defeating St. Francis 15- 
41 last week. The first five finish
ers were Dobras, Klepac, Chamay, 
Caldwell, and Anderson.
Although the collegiate season 
ends Friday, Bruce Dobras and 
Glenn Klepac will continue o 
run on an independent team led 
by Bob Carman, a CIT graduate 
of five years ago. The other mem
bers of their group will be Herb 
Foulds, an Oberlin grad, and 
George Tracy, a high school boy 
from Warren, Ohio.
Included on their schedule will 
be the AAU meet in Schenley 
next week, and the Berwick Mar
athon on Thanksgiving Day.
