Campus Cursed ByHomecomingTheme
Greeks Begin Plans 
for Eerie Homecom ing
The Homecoming Committee of Student Congress led by 
Sally Lindsay and Fred Heider has announced the theme 
for this years Homecoming weekend, October 31 and No
vember 1 and 2, as American and^
European Curses."
It has been reported that the 
Tech campus is being plagued by 
a strange little man named Harpo, 
the Happy Hexer, and authoritiesar that he may bring great evil 
campus. The Homecoming 
Committee warned CITers to Be 
on the look-out for him.
Fraternities and sororities have
selected their themes from famous 
American and European works of 
literatureplots with a curse as 
their basis.
Fraternities
The fraternities have chosen the 
following curses for their displays: 
ATO .. .Jack, the Giant Killer 
BTP .. .The Flying Dutchman
BSR ........ Rhyme of the
.................Ancient Mariner
DTD ........................................
.. Legend of Sleepy Hollow
DU ......................Snow White
KS ..................The Pied Piper
PK ................The Bottle Imp
PKA..............Sleeping Beauty
SAE ............................MacBeth
SN..........................Joe Btfslph
TDP .......................Richard III
TX .........................Unnounced
Sororities 
The sororities will build their 
skits around the following titles 
which are listed in the order of 
their performance at Varsity 
Varieties:
DDD.The Midas Touch-down 
1continued on page 4]
VOL. 52No. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., SEPT. 30, 1958
gTec/is Perlis 
Tours Russia
Dr. Alan J. Perlis, a Carnegie 
Tech professor returned from Rus
sia last week after concluding a 
two-week lecture tour of Soviet 
computing centers and universi
ties as a guest of the Russian 
Academy of Science.
^ Dr. Perlis is head of Carnegies 
Computation Center, and editor of 
Communications of the ACM, 
an official journal of the Associa
tion for Computing Machinery.
Fellow Travelors
He took the trip along with 
three other American professors, 
John Carr and Norman Scott of 
the University of Michigan, and 
James Robertson of the University 
of Illinois. They visited Moscow, 
J^eningrad, and Kiev, lecturing on 
Various phases of American digit
al computer activity and visiting 
computor laboratories.
Their hosts were the director 
of the Institute for Precision Me
chanics of the Russian Academy 
of Science, Dr. S. A. Lebedev, 
and the director of the academys 
Moscow computing center, Dr. A. 
A. Dorodnitsin.
The trip resulted from a visit
Spring Carnival
Spring Carnical Committee 
of Student Congress will meet 
Monday, October 6 at 4:30 in 
the Morewood Gardens li
brary.
of four members of the* Russian 
Academy to lecture at a Univers
ity of Michigan course on digital 
computers in the summer of 1957. 
Dr. Perlis also happened to be 
lecturing at this course. He be
came acquainted with the Russian 
experts, and consequently was 
contacted by them when the So
viets reciprocated the invitation 
this summer.
Arrival in Russia 
The group arrived in Russia on 
August 26 and stayed until Sep
tember 10. All expenses while 
there were paid by *he Soviet 
Academy. Other than traveling be
tween cities, they had little time 
for sightseeing.
They visited the Universities of 
Moscow, Leningrad, and Kiev, and 
delivered lectures at the Ukranian 
Academy of Science and before the
Scholarships
Seniors and graduate stu
dents who want information 
about Fulbright, Marshall, or 
Rhodes Scholarships for for
eign study or who wish to ap
ply for an award should see 
R. E. Parshall, A. H. 260, as 
soon as possible. There is no 
restriction as to field of study.
The deadline for completed 
Fulbright applications is Oc
tober 20. Marshall and Rhodes 
applications must be com
pleted and mailed not later 
than October 28.
Students interested in ap
plying for one of these schol
arships should discuss the idea 
with their department head 
before they see Mr. Parshall.
Fine Arts Initiates 
Series Of Classes 
For H,S. Students
The Carnegie College of Fine 
Arts has announced plans to of
fer pre-college art instruction to 
students of the public and private 
schools in the Pittsburgh area. The 
classes, which will be held on Sat
urday mornings and afternoons, 
are aimed at discovering and stim
ulating artistic ability as well as 
supplementing the instruction the 
student receives in the schools.
The program has been arranged 
so that the instruction offered will 
correspond to the upper elementary.through the senior high school 
grades. Separate classes will be 
held for children of elementary 
and secondary school age. Any 
student who is eight years old or 
over may participate in this pro
gram.
Class Times
Classes will begin October 4, and 
continue with the usual vacation 
periods up to and including May 
16, 1959. They will be held from 
9:00-12:00 noon, or from 1:00-3:30 
p.m., for those who cannot attend 
the morning session.
Courses which will be offered 
are elementary art, drawing and 
sketching, introduction to design, 
sculpture, metalwork, advanced 
painting, and ceramics.
Registration for this special pre
college session will be held on 
Saturday, October 4, at 9:00 a.m., 
in room 310-A, College of Fine 
Arts. The fees for the year, 
amounting to $25.00 for tuition andMoscow and Leningrad computing
centers of the Russian Academy.1 $6.00 for materials are payable at j 
I continued on page 4] 1 registration.
Thomas Lindsay 
Named Director 
Of Development
Thomas H. Lindsay has been 
named director of development 
at Carnegie Tech, as announced 
last June by Dr. J. C. Warner, 
president of Carnegie Tech.
The development office is one 
of five divisions under the sup
ervision of H. Russell Bintzer, 
vice president of development 
and public relations.
Former Employment
Mr. Lindsay was formerly as
sociated with Ketchum, Inc., pro
fessional campaign direction and 
public relations firm headquart
ered in Pittsburgh. He served as 
campaign director there for five 
years, and was active in capital 
fund campaigns for educational 
institutions, hospitals and civic 
organizations. Prior to his affilia
tion with Ketchum, Inc., Mr. 
Lindsay was a director of the 
American National Red Cross in 
Washington, D.C.
As director of development at 
Carnegie Tech, Mr. Lindsay will 
be directly responsible for all fund 
raising exclusive of the alumni 
program. The school is presently 
engaged in a $24,350,000 building 
and development program.
Mr. Lindsay is a graduate of 
the University of Pittsburgh 
where he majored in business ad
ministration. A native of Brad
ford, Pennsylvania, he now lives 
at 280 Inglewood Drive in MV 
Lebanon. He is married and the 
father of three children.
Factors
SAE And DG Take
Scholarship Honors
By Tom Beig
The statistics on fraternity, sorority and all-school factors 
for the 1958 spring semester revealed that the all-fraternity, 
all-men, all-women, and all-school factors were higher than 
those of the last fall semester, while the all-sorority factor
-----------------------------------------------------?was lower.
Once again the fraternity aver-Greehs Gathering 
Large Groups 
Of Tech Men
Although fraternity rushing 
officially ended September 16, 
with the majority of men pledg
ing between September 17 and 21, 
thirty-three pledged fraternities 
during the pasi week.
The following is a list of new 
fraternity pledges:
ATORon Beinlich. Dave Eis
enhower, Butch Gabriel, Jack 
Hartman, O. C. Simons.
BTPLee Jamison, Steve KoHnek, Jim Sibris.
DTDKayne Hyland, Wayne 
Rafferty, Rick Remer.
DUDick Okhavsky.
KSLarry Flower, James Halow, Terry Miller, Jim Schu
macher.
PKTom Bruhson, Tony Compagna.
PKARay Ginebroz.
SAEDuane Clark, Bill Farry, 
John Gridlev, J. P. Robinson, Ron 
Roggenburk, Flyod Steele, Gordon 
Waehrer, Bill Carlson, Denny 
Clopper.
SNRoy Knoth, Pete Bouxien.
TXJim Haddad, Nick Leola, 
Marty Lewis, Barry Roth.
Mademoiselle Art 
Contest For Girls 
Noiv Under Way
age was below the all-mens aver
age, but by a smaller margin 
.074 as contrasted to .081 last fall.
Seemingly inconsistent with this 
information is the fact that only 
two fraternities were above the 
all-mens average and no frater
nities were above the all-school 
factor. This is attributed to the 
range of fraternity factors which 
was smaller, varying from 2.15 to 
2.45, as opposed to 1.98 to 2.57 last 
fall.
While the all-sorority average 
fell from 2.728 to 2.647 it remained 
above the all-womens and allschooi averages.
Listed below are the spring 
semester factor breakdowns: 
Fraternity Factors 
Sigma AlphS Epsilon ...2.450
Beta Sigma Rho ............2.44
Delta Upsilon ...................2.41
Pi Kappa Alpha...............2.40
Alpha Tau Omega...........2.33
Beta Theta Pi...................2.363
Theta Xi ...........................2.360
Sigma Nu .........................2.331
Tau Delta Phi .................2.330
Phi Kappa .......................2.23
Delta Tau Delta .............2.19
Kappa Sigma ..................2.15
Sorority Factors
Delta Gamma................,2.90
Delta Delta Delta ..........2.76
Kappa Kappa Gamma ..2.63
Chi Omega ......................2.613
Kappa Alpha Theta ....2.606
Sigma Kappa ...................2.54
Alpha Epsilon Phi ........2.30
All-Fraternity ................2.34
Independent Men ..........2.46
All-Men .............. ..........2.42
All-"School ........................2 .453
All-Sorority ....................2.65
Independent Women .. . .2.51 
All-Women ......................2.56
Neivs And Sports 
Staffs
All members of the news 
and sports staffs of the Tartan 
-are requested to attend an im
portant meeting tomorrow, 
October 1 at 4:30 in room B 
of the Union.
Assembly T opic 
Catholic Life
Tech Student And Companion 
Killed In Motorcycle Accident
A Tech student and his companion died Sunday as the 
result of an early morning accident in Schenley Park.
Killed were Orrin R. McCahon, Jr., a junior printer and 
a member of Alpha Tau Omega from Lorraine, Ohio, and
Thomas B. Bates, a former CIT#~-------------------------------------------------
student from Pittsburgh. Bates 
was dead on arrival at Shadyside 
Hospital. McCahon died at 12:35
Sunday afternoon at Montefiore 
Hospital.
Bates on Leave
The accident took place on 
Schenley Drive in Schenley Park 
at 3:40 a.m. when the motorcycle 
with McCahon driving, failed to 
make a turn at high speed, throw
ing the cycle and riders one-hunThe editors of Mademoiselle 
announced last week that Made
moiselles fifth annual art con
test is now under way.
The two winners will interpret 
the two winning stories in the 
magazines 1959 College Fiction 
Contest and will receive $500 each 
for publication of their work. The 
closest runners-up will receive 
honorable mention and their en
tries will be kept on file for pos
sible future commissions by
Mademoiselle. Winners and hon
orable mentions will be announc
ed in the August 1959 College 
issue.
Eligibility
Any woman in college or art 
school who submits her entries 
before her twenty-sixth birthday 
is eligible* to compete. No work 
need be done especially for this | As announced in last weeks
contest. Any samplesat least Tartan, the first speaker in the
[Continued on Page 2] 1958-59 Tuesday assembly series,
which begins October 7, is Father 
Gustave Weigel, S.J. He will dis
cuss Life as a Catholic Sees it 
next Tuesday mdrning at 11:30 in 
the Little Theater in Fine Arts.
Rev. Weigel was born in Buffalo, 
New York, in 1906. He obtained 
both his A.B. and M.A. degrees 
from Woodstock College, Mary
land, and his Ph.D. from Gregor
ian University, Rome. He was also 
awarded a S.T.D. from Gregorian 
University and a Lit.D. from the 
Catholic University of Chile. 
Author
Rev. Weigel has written articles 
which have appeared in many 
American magazines including 
Time and America. He was a sum
mer school lecturer at Harvard 
University in 1953, and has lec
tured at such other outstanding 
American universities as George
town, Columbia, Lehigh, Hopkins, 
Rutgers, Stanford and Purdue.
dred fifty feet down a steep, 
wooded embankment. The motor
cycle belonged to Bates brother.
Bates, a Theta Xi, was in Pitts
burgh on a weekend leave from 
the Great Lakes Naval Base. He 
had planned to complete his stud
ies in electrical engineering after 
serving in the Navy.
Tentative funeral arrangements 
have been set for tomorrow, Octo
ber 1.

---------------------------------------------------

l'ge 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 3, 1958
Editorial
12:30 And All Is Well
The schools action in changing the week
end Morewood hours from 1:30 a.m. to 12:30 
a.m., supposedly as a punishment for certain 
rowdy activities which took place last 
spring, has caused much student grumbling.
The complaints have ranged from they 
have taken away our constitutional rights to 
not enough time in Schenley Park. In ad
dition, it puts the Chatham girls in more di
rect competition with the Morewood resi
dents; a condition most distasteful for the 
Tech women. Thus, it would appear that the 
new hours are nothing but a real blight on 
the campusa real limitation on student 
freedom and social life.
Big Advantages
However, there are a few advantages in 
favor of these new hours. It is well known 
that the presence of any limit on the girls 
hours demands that they stay out to the last 
secondand therefore no one dating on cam
pus ever got to sleep before 2:00 or 2:30 a.m.
This was a completely ridiculous hour which, 
caused nothing but bleary eyes and dull heads during Satur
day and Sundaythe result being very little accomplishment 
of school work on the weekends.
Not only did this late hour result in lower academic 
standards, but it also caused less enjoyable dates. For no 
ones personality is at its best while one is sleepy. But per
haps more important there is no limitation placed on any 
phase of dating by the new hours. And if time is short all 
one needs to do is begin the date at 8:00 p.m. rather than 9:00 
p.m. and there is absolutely no difference in the length of 
the date! (This involves the same scientific principle as day
light savings time!)
Permanent Regulation
In view of these very great advantages of the new Morewood hours, it seems most reasonable to make these hours a 
permanent part of the Morewood regulations. And although 
this would probably cause much wailing and gnashing of 
teeth by the Tech student body, the feeling exists that were 
there is no limit on the womens hours, most dates would 
probably end at about midnight anyway.
In any case, staying up until the wee hours is hardly 
one of the main features of an enjoyable and pleasant social 
life, and in fact except for special occasions it is a real 
detriment. The Tartan is, however, cognizant of the fact 
that there are those special occasions (other than homecom
ing and spring carnival, etc.) when a later hour is desirable. 
Such occasions might arise when attending functions located 
a considerable distance from campus (As perhaps some of 
the home football games!) or exceptionally lengthly events.
New Plan
Therefore, to better provide for such special events the 
following plan is offered: make the 12:30 hours permanent, 
but allow each girl (or perhaps each upper-class girl) a cer
tain number of weekend specials good until 1:30 a.m. The 
number of special allowed could perhaps be dependent on 
scholastic standing such that higher grades were rewarded 
with extra weekend specials. This plan would retain the ad
vantages of the new hours, and at the same time provide for 
dates. If such a plan were adopted, CIT would have some of 
the most flexible and most reasonable dormitory hours of 
any university in the country.
R.G.W.
AtAP)
To Banburg Cross
Ride a cock horse 
To Banbury Cross 
To Banbury Cross she goes 
With rings on her fingers 
With bells on her toes 
She shall have music wherever she goes.  
This week inaugurates a column of notetf
and comments, and, the author hopes, of note 
and comment. The column will attempt to 
stimulate in its readers a cognizance of oc
curences moral, temporal, and aesthetic in 
this revolutionary world. It will presume to 
offer critical appreciations of such occur
ences. It will seek to promote controversy 
among its readers and in doing so will wel
come correspondence. Occasionally it will in
dulge in belles lettres, matters of ettiquette 
and form, and articles of sophomoric wit.
The object of this peripatetic jotting is 
simple. To give pleasure to the reader while 
acquainting him with the world which lies be
yond Administration Hall: to aid him to open 
his eyes, ears, and heart to the myriad ex
periences waiting outside his special disa~/ 
pline, locality, or tradition.
Blenhiem
Bob Clements Travels 
On Unique U. S. Tour
By Lex Baker
Last summer many Techites spent their vacations trav
eling to various places on the continent. One of these jour
neymen was called to the attention of the Tartan because of 
the unique circumstances of his trip.
Bob Clements, senior painting4------------------------------------------------
and design student from Tarentum, Pennsylvania, left home on 
June 5 to begin a journey across 
the United States. His destination 
nowhere in particular and
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office Phone 
MU 2-4557; Managing Editor, MU 2-8877; Executive Editor, MU 2-9053; Business 
Manage. MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination period by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Co-Editor .................................................................................................................. Carol SoobyCo-Editor ....................................................................................................................... Bichard Wiley
Associate Editor ................................................................................................................. David Dull
Rasinesi Manager Michael Bass
New Editor ........................ ....................................................................................... Tom Bie*Sports Editor ............................................%........................................................ Georee ParisCopy Editor ........................................................................................................ ^ry Sallivan
Second class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
was
everywhere in general. He used 
as his resources 50 dollars and 
hitch-hiked his way for an inter
esting and productive two and 
one-half month tour.
Being that his interests are 
centered around the field of art, 
Bob sketched many of the places 
and people whom he saw. As he 
completed each drawing, all of 
which totaled 75, he sent them 
home. He stated that he never 
got bored because when he got 
tired of drawing, he hitch-hiked 
and when he tired of traveling, 
he visited the points of interest 
in the area where he happened to 
find himself at the time.
Among these points of interest 
were many art museums, several 
mountain ranges, including Mt. 
Ranier in Washington, the Holly
wood Bowl and the Greek theater 
in Los Angeles.
Experiences
The experiences of a vagabond 
Bob found are many and varied. 
On the whole people were kind 
and sympathetic. They picked him 
up, sometimes invited him to stay 
at their homes and often fed him. 
In a Florida bakery shop, he ask
ed for a loaf of bread, producing 
his last 30 cents. The clerk real
ized his poverty and give him six 
dozen rolls, which lasted him for 
three days.
In some cases, he was not quite 
so fortunate. A policeman at Bal
boa Park in San Diego where 
Bob had been sleeping for two 
nights, warned him that if he 
stayed another, he would be taken 
in for vagrancy.
Bob escaped the former threat 
and returned -home toward the 
end of August with many enrich
ing experiences behind him. The 
concrete products of his trip were 
displayed at the Sherwood Forest 
theater.
PiKA And DTD 
Celebrate New 
Duplex Frat House
By Paul Hess
The newest of the new is what 
the Pi Kappa Alpha-Delta Tau 
Delta duplex fraternity dorm 
could be called. The building, first 
occupied this semester, is the third 
in Carnegie Techs face-lifting 
plan for fraternity row.
Pi Kappa Alpha
Each of the Greeks occupying 
the up-to-date units had its own 
method of showing off the struc
ture. PiKA last weekend featured 
an open house to all interested 
persons. Friday evening Techs 
faculty, administration, and rushettes, girls who helped the house 
during rush week, were treated to 
a cocktail party. A large turnout 
of students from the whole cam
pus viewed the interior of the 
house Saturday afternoon and 
evening. Sunday afternoon, many 
of the parents of active members 
and pledges toured the quarters, 
finding in some cases that their 
sons lived better in the fraternity 
houses than at home. In the eve
ning a housewarming dinner was 
given for invited members of the 
faculty and alumni.
Delta Tan Delta
Delta Tau Delta this summer of
fered its new quarters to the 100th 
anniversary convention of the na
tional fraternity. On August 21 a 
dedication ceremony featuring es
corted tours through the house and 
a gala ribbon-cutting ceremony 
were held as part of the five-day 
assembly.
Branch Rickey, Mr. Base
ball, and William J. Brennan, 
Jr., and Thomas C. Clark, U. S. 
Supreme Court Justices, were on 
hand for the occasion with Rickey 
acting as toastmaster. As one Delt 
expressed his reaction to the new 
house, Its a lot more livable 
and practical than the old one. 
But after these dedications are 
long past, the old houses will be 
fondly remembered. The leaky 
plumbing, faulty wiring, and ques
tionable life-span of the old build
ings are rooted deeply in the mem
ory of Delta Tau Delta and PiKA.
Tech SCF 
In Review
By Terrie Rudy
To further and strengthen th ) 
Tech Christian community and to 
make the greatest total Christian 
impact on campus with importance 
placed on the best tradition that 
each member organization has to 
offer the ecumenical concern 
this, according to its by-laws, is 
the purpose of SCF ,the Student 
Christian Federation of Carnegie 
Tech.
Primarily, the merhbers of this 
organization act as a council for 
the discussion of religious prob
lems on the campus as a whole in 
the hopes of helping to solve these 
problems. In this group, represen
tatives from various religious 
sects on campus, realizing that 
they have much in common, have 
joined to prsent a united Chris3 
ian front. Through sharing of 
ideas and cooperation with one 
another they consolidate the 
Christian concern on Techs cam
pus.
Membership
Membership in SCF is made up 
of representatives of nine of the 
Christian religious organizations 
on campus. The council meei 
once every month. Two projects 
which the group sponsors are the 
church night which was held on 
September 18 and the Easter as
sembly which will be held on the 
Tuesday before Easter recess.
Elected president of SCF for 
this year was Martin Oberdeck. 
The vice-president is Bob Svedberg. Adviser for the organizatir f 
is Richard 7^. Batchelder, coordina
tor of religious affairs.
Madamoiselle
[continued from page I]
fivethat show ability in one or 
more media will do. 
Mademoiselle will accept pho
tographs of originals, either color 
transparencies or black and whi } 
glosses. This is not a commercial 
art contest; Mademoiselle is not 
looking for fashion illustration or 
advertising layouts, but for imag
inative, original work in whatever 
medium of style the student works 
best.
All entries for the contest must 
be submitted by March 15, 1959 
to Art Contest, Mademoiselle, 575 
Madison Avenue, New York 22.

---------------------------------------------------

p
Tuesday, September 30, 1958CARNEGIE Campusreaft 3
Bucknell Next 
To Meet Tech
Techs gridiron eleven had a 
week off this past weekend and 
are using the extra time to pre
pare for their rough and tumble 
scrap with Bucknell this coming 
weekend.
The contest is an away game 
and will be played on Saturday 
afternoon. A large group of Tartan 
fans is expected to journey to | 
LeWfsburg for the contest.
Dr. Bakers team looked shrp 
in easily overcoming an outplayed 
sons opener, and should be able 
to play the Bucknell team on even 
terms.
The central Pennsylvania team 
is rated as having much more 
Slippery Rock eleven in their seaclass than Techs first opponent, 
1 but were hit heavy by graduation 
last spring and are a relatively un
experienced foe.
Although Bucknell won last 
years game 13-7, we are looking 
, for the Tartans to pull an upset 
1 and defeat Bucknell for their 
| second straight victory.
^ Your timing is as neat as your ap
pearance when the shirt is a new 
Arrow Wash and Wear. No wait
ing for the laundry. Just suds 
drip-dryand youre ready to go! 
Economical, too ... your allow
ance goes further.
Carefully tailored by Arrow of 
100% cotton oxford and broad
cloth. Choice of collar styles in 
^ whites, stripes, checks, solids. $4.00 
up. Underwear by Arrow, too.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
GrGekksBg
first in fashion
 Tartan Coed Contest
The Tartan announces a new contest for Tech men. The 
Coed of the Week now appearing in the Tartan will be se
lected, beginning with next weeks issue, from names of 
girls sent in by their male admirers. This contest is open to 
all Tech men. The procedure is to fill in the entry blank ap
pearing below and place it in the interschool mail, addressed 
to .Coed of the Week, Carnegie Tartan. If possible a snapEach week the Tartan will select at random several 
names, probably about five, and from this list, the Tartan 
photography staff will select the Coed of the Week. The con
test may be entered as often as desired, of course no one will 
be pictured more than once and each entry should be made 
with the girls permission.
! Entry Blank
  Coed of the Week Contest
i i Name ......................................................................................................... I i Address ................................................................................................... I I Phone ....................................................................................................... * ' ISubmitted by............................................................................................ l iI _________________________
Tech IM Football 
Season Underway 
In All Leagues
Intramural football leagues and 
schedules for the coming season 
have been set up by Mr. Boyer 
along with the intramural board.
This season will find three 
leagues composed of eight teams 
each. The top two teams in each 
league will be placed in the single 
elimination playoffs at the end of 
the season.
Ys To Sponsor 
Discussion Groups
The YM-YWCA will sponsor a 
coffee-hour and discussion for all 
CIT students every Tuesday after
noon from 3:30 to 4:00 in Skibo. 
The first of these meetings will be 
held this afternoon.
Professors Shaeffer of the his
tory department and Houghteling 
of economics department will give 
a five to ten minute summary of a 
current news item, which will be 
followed by general discussion.
Complementary coffee and 
doughnuts will be served at the 
first meeting.
You're always ready 
for a date...
thanks to Arrow 
Wash and Wear
On CampusMaxQhvhan
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek.)
HOW GREEN WAS MY CAMPUS
Dont tell me: I know how.busy youve been! I know all the 
tilings youve had to do in the opening days of the school year 
registering, paying fees, finding lodgings, entering a drag race, 
getting married, building a cage for your raccoon. But now, 
with all these essentials out of the way, let us pause and join 
hands and take, for the first time, a long, leisurely look at our 
campus.
Ready? Lets go!
We begin our tour over here on tins lovely stretch of green
sward called The Mall. The Mall, as we all know, was named in 
honor of our distinguished alumnus Fred Mall, inventor of the 
opposing thumb. Before Mr. Malls invention, the thumb could 
not be pressed or clicked against the other fingers. As a result, 
millions of casta.net makers were out of work. Today however, 
thanks to Mr. Mall, one out of every three Americans is gain
fully employed making castanets. (The other two make croquet 
wickets.} Mr. Mall is now 106 years old and living in seclusion 
on a sea cliff in Wellington, Kansas, but the old gentleman is 
far from idle. He still works twelve hours a day in his labora
tory, and in the last year has invented the tuna, the cuticle, 
and lint.
NDBBut I digress. Let us resume our tour. At the end of The 
Mall we see a handsome edifice called The Library. Here books 
are kept. By kept I mean kept. There is no way in the 
world for you to get a book out of the library ... No, Im 
wrong. If you have a stack permit you can take out a book, 
but stack permits are issued only to widows of Presidents of the 
United States. (That lady you see coming out of the library 
with a copy of Girl of the Limberlost is Mrs. Millard Fillmore.)
Next to The Library we see the Administration Building. 
Here one finds the president of the university, the deans, and 
the registrar. Aocording to ancient academic usage, the president 
is always called Prexy. Similarly, the deans are called Dixie 
and the registrar is called Roxy. Professors are called Proxy 
and housemothers are called Hoxy-Moxy. Students are 
called Algae.
Diagonally across The Mall we see the Students Union. It is 
a gay mad place, frankly dedicated to the fun and relaxation 
of we undergraduates. Here we undergraduates may enjoy 
ourselves in one of two wayswith filter or without. We under
graduates who prefer filters, prefer Marlboro, of course. Ob, 
what a piece of work is Marlboro! The filter filters, the taste is 
smooth but not skimpy, mild but not meagre.
We undergraduates who prefer non-filters, prefer Philip 
Morris, of corris. It is a natural smoke, a clean smoke, a flavor
ful, zestful, pure and peaceful smoke ... Now hear this: Philip 
Morris and Marlboro each come in a choice of two packs 
crushproof Flip-Top Box or the familiar Soft Pack.
So now, as the setting sun casts a fiery aura over the spires 
and battlements of our beloved campus, let us hie ourselves to 
our tobacconists and lay in a nights supply of Marlboro or 
Philip Morris, and then let us, lowing, wind slowly oer the lea 
to our dormitories and sit upon our army surplus cots, spent 
but content, and smoke and dream and hark the curfew toll the 
knell of parting day. Aloha, fair campus, aloha!
m  1958 Mai Sliuimaa
For a complete tour of smoking pleasure try filtered Marlboro 
and non-filtered Philip Morris, whose makers take pleasure 
in bringing you this column throughout the school year.
Coed Of D,le ULL
%+arny Andrews
Sophomore painting and design major.
Keep On Your 
Toes With
Facat
Now that youve got ^ourself 
into college, let safe, handy 
NoDoz tablets help you get out. 
Harmless NoDoz helps you 
keep alert through long, late 
cramming sessions . .. keeps 
you on your toes during exams. 
NoDoz tablets are safe as coffee 
and much more convenient.

---------------------------------------------------

The Biscayne 2-Door Sedannothing so new or nice near the price,
Youll get the best buy on Americas best seller!
This new Chevrolet is attracting a bigger share of America's passenger car buyers than ever before 
. . . and for bigger-than-ever reasons. Its the only honest-to-goodness new car in its field. New 
throughout! Yet in many models its actually the lowest priced of the leading low-priced three.*
more people are buying Chevrolet
CONVERTIBLES
CHEVROLET IS 
THE NO.1 
BUY IN 
STATION 
WAGONS 
*
Five to choose from 
including the 
lowest priced 9-pas
senger model you 
can buy!*
yrTv??yvr?vvvyvv,vrryV:v
THE BIGGEST
SELLING
IS CHEVROLET
There9 s a choice of five 
high -compression 
Chevy V8's!
Chevy'sn
With taut, fade-resistant top up or down, the I m pa la Convert-than anv oth^r kind* ibIe gives yu S11 uidiL any omer Kina. winggiamoratitsbest.
^ONLY CAR IN ITS FIELO 
^ 'i'sells like nobody elses!
People like the way this Blue-Flame 6 gets the most out of a 
gallon of gasyet steps with a perkiness that does them proud.
lf^^TW
pute glass all aro^ 
Bated on list price*.
See your local authorized Chevrolet dealer for quick appraisalprompt delivery! Sf
FOHWAM
Homecommg
[Continued from page I]
Chi O
AEP___....................MacBeth
DG ...............The Evil Eye
KKG
KAT ___....................Brigadoon
SK
Next weeks Tartan will carry a 
full program of Homecoming 
events.
Perlis
[continued from page 11 
Everywhere there were technical 
discussions between the American 
group and the Russian research 
personnel.
For Dr. Perlis, the most signifi
cant parts of the trip were his 
discussions with Russian technical 
experts on progress in advanced 
programming work. A computer 
must be programmed, he explain
ed. In other words, it must be pro
vided with information in a form 
which it is able to use for solving 
problems.
Valuable Results
The most important result of the 
trip, Dr. Perlis said, was the es
tablishment of a channel for com
munication on computer research 
work between Russian and Amer
ican scientific personnel. Formal
ly, contacts have been arranged 
between the Russian Academy 
and the association for computing 
machinery. Most of the inter
change, however, will be by in
formal contact between the Amer
ican professors and their Russian 
counterparts.
Dr. Perlis staff at the Carnegie 
Computation Center has been do
ing programming research in an 
attempt to more widely extend 
the uses of computers. The work is 
reaching into many areas which 
have not previously been consid
ered mathematical. Currently, for 
instance, the center is preparing 
a program by which the digital 
computer may translate Russian 
technical literature into English.
Citcom Hay ride
Citcom will have a hayride on 
Saturday, October 4. At this event, 
members and their dates will be 
admitted free, non-members will 
be charged fifty cents per person. 
Those going on the hayride will 
meet at Carnegie Union at 7:30 
p.m. and Citcom will furnish 
transportation for those without 
cars from here to The Barn 
near South Park.
This event will also mark the 
end of Citcoms fall membership 
drive and will be a good time to 
become a member, for those who 
still havent joined.
Vets Club
Although the Veterans Club did 
not have a sign-up table at reg
istration, this organization plans to 
remain active this year. All vet
erans are eligible for membership 
and are invited to attend the first1 
meeting in the Black Cat lounge ; 
on Friday, October 3. Information 
about this and other functions of 
the club will be posted on the vet
erans bulletin board on the first 
floor of Administration Hall.
PR Smoker
On September 25 Pershing Rifles 
society held in the Carnegie Union 
a smoker for those freshmen and 
sophomores interested in member
ship. In charge was Operations 
Officer Ivan E. Sutherlandowho 
presented 1st Battalion CO Lt. 
Colonel Hamilton, P/R Company 
Commander James C. Bane, Jr., 
and Pershing Rifles advisers Capt. 
Guerin and SFC Bedy.
Some very interesting movies of 
drill teams in previous years were 
presented, after which refresh
ments were served. It was an
nounced that the first meeting of 
prospective members of Pershing 
Rifles will be held in military sup
ply on Tuesday, September 30, at 
4:30 p.m.
Emerson Club
The program for this Sundays 
Emerson Club meeting will give 
the students an opportunity to 
answer the arguments of their 
teachers, who discussed Whats 
Wrong with Students at the Sep
tember 28 meeting. A panel of 
students from Chatham, Pitt, and 
Tech will consider Whats Wrong 
with Faculty Sunday, October 5, 
at 3:00 p.m. in the Schweitzer 
room of the First Unitarian 
Church, Ellsworth and Morewood 
Avenues. Refreshments and fel
lowship will follow this program.
Newman Club
The Newman Club is sponsoring 
a mixer dance for old and pros
pective members. It is to be held 
on October 3 from eight to twelve 
at the Cardinal Newman Hall, 125 
N. Craig St. Music is to be sup
plied by the Leo Alman quartet.
The regular weekly lectures are 
being conducted by the Chaplain, 
Father John M. Biller, every 
Tuesday at 12:30 in EH 1212. The 
topic for discussion is ethics.
George! George! Drop the Camels!
See the Chevy Show, Sunday night on NBC-TV and the weekly Chevy Showroom on ABC-TV. 
Air conditioningtemperatures made to order. Get a demonstration.
More people are loyal to 
Camels than any other ciga
rette today. It stands to 
reason: the best tobacco 
makes the best smoke. The 
Camel blend of costly tobac
cos has never been equalled 
for rich flavor and easy
going mildness. No wonder 
Camel is the No. 1 cigarette 
of all brands today I
Fads and fancy stuff
gTe c/T ie shTSt .. 
Have a real 
cigarettehave a CAMEL :
R. J. Reynolds Tot. Co., WlfHtoa-Sslem. N.CL
)
