VOL. 46No. 24 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYWED., MAY 6, 1953
Dr. Jones Appointed 
Tech Vice President
Dr. Webster N. Jones, Dean of Engineering and Science, has 
been appointed Vice-President in charge of industrial and govern
mental relations at Tech. The appointment to this newly-created post 
will become effective July 1, 1953.
As Techs first Vice-President,*
Dr. Jones will also direct the
schools problems connected with 
selective service and reserve of
ficer status of students, faculty, 
and non-academic employees.
In addition, Dr. Jones will serve 
as chairman of the committee on 
research projects; will advise the 
President concerning proposed 
projects; and shall endeavor to 
help the various departments and 
laboratories obtain projects which 
Will support appropriate basic re
search.
Established 3-2 Plan
Since joining Techs staff in 
1932 as Director of the College of 
Engineering, Dr. Jones has made 
many outstanding achievements 
on campus. An exponent of the 
Carnegie Plan, perhaps Dr. Jones 
most far-reaching contributions 
have been the establishment of 
the 3-2 plan, which leads to both 
a B.A. and B.S. degree, and his 
leadership in developing the 
three-fold plan of education: un
dergraduate, graduate, and re
search.
Dr. Jones also arranged for the 
abolition of shop courses and the 
substitution of a more well-round
ed curriculum in accord with the 
Carnegie Plan of education.
Fine Selection of Heads
Due to Dr. Jones selection of 
outstanding men as heads of E&S 
departments, about 80% of them 
have a Ph.D. This is not an unCarnival 
Schedule
Thursday, May 7
4:30 p.m.Midway opens until 
1 a.m. Track Meet with W & J.
8:00 p.m.Scotch n Soda, Gymnasium.
Friday, May 8
8:00 a.m.Weighing and judg
ing of Sweepstakes pushmobiles, Machinery Hall.
9:00 a.m.Preliminary Sweep
stakes heats.
12:00 NoonMidway Open.
1:00 p.m.Coronation and Call 
Day, front of Fine Arts (weather 
permitting) or Gymnasium.
3:00 p.m.Float Parade.
9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.  Circus 
Capers Dance, Gymnasium (In
formal).
Saturday, May 9
10:30 a.m.Sweepstakes Finals.
12:00 noonMidway Open.
1:00 p.m.Drama Student s 
Cricket Match, lawn in front of 
Fine Arts.
2:00 p.m.Tartan-Scot Duel, 
Fine Arts lawn.
3:00 p.m.Sorority Competition, 
Tug-O-War on lawn between 
MMCC and Carnegie Inn.
9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.Corona
tion Ball, Gymnasium (Formal). 
Carnival Awards at the Intermission.
Dean W. N. Jones
Named Tech Vice President
usual situation in a Liberal Arts 
college, but such a high percent
age is rarely found in a technical 
school.
Dr. Jones was also instrumental 
in establishing the Westinghouse 
scholarship, and has been promi
nent in the development of the 
Carnegie Technical, of which he 
is faculty advisor.
The new Vice-President is a 
person of nation-wide repute. He 
is regarded as one of the nations 
leading authorities on synthetic 
rubber, thermoplastics, and engi
neering, and has written numer
ous books and papers in these 
fields.
He is a member of many na
tional scientific societies, and is 
currently serving as president of 
Pittsburghs University Club.
Leading Role in Organization
An outstanding research chem
ist, Dr. Jones is a graduate of the 
University of Missouri, and re
ceived his Ph.D. from Harvard 
university. A Chemical Warfare 
[Continued on page 6]
Scholarship
Mortar Board will award a 
$150 scholarship to a junior 
woman from any of the col
leges. The scholarship will be 
presented this spring to a girl 
who has shown service and 
leadership on the campus.
This applicant must have at 
least a 2.75 average factor for 
the two previous semesters. 
Mortar Board has found it 
possible to award the scholar
ship this year because of the 
profit made from the benefit 
bridge.
Applications may be secured 
in the Dean of Womens office 
on or after Tuesday, May 5, 
1953, and must be returned by 
Friday, May 22, 1953.
Technical Staff 
Elects Editor
Ken Luther To Guide 
Magazine During Year
At a meeting held Friday, May
1, by the 1952-53 editorial board 
of the Carnegie Technical, the 
following men were elected to 
head the magazine next year: ed
itor-in-chief, Kenneth Luther 
managing editor, John Scouller 
business manager, Howard Beilin 
features editor, Frederick Dill 
art editor, Robert Bowden; circu
lation manager, Richard Rairigh 
layout editor, Clyde Walter; tech
nicalities editor, George Rybicki 
photographer, Myrojn Lewis; chief 
draftsman, Dominick Schrello.
In the person of Ken Luther 
the Technical has found an ex
cellent man to carry on the edi 
tor-in-chiefs job. Ken has studied 
journalism at Yale university and 
is now enrolled as a sophomore 
mechanical engineer at Tech. Ken 
plans to continue in engineering 
journalism after graduation, and 
the Technical is proving to be fine 
experience for his life work.
Drive Over Top 
As CIT Spills 
194 Gory Pints
The Red Cross bloodmobile came 
to campus for its fourth visit on 
Thursday, April 23. This visit 
turned out to be the biggest suc
cess the bloodmobile has had on 
any of the college campuses in 
Pittsburgh. Altogether an amaz
ing 194 points of blood were col
lected.
The Red Cross considers any 
thing over 130 pints to be good, 
and the sponsors on campus, New
man Club and Student Council, 
were shooting for 160 pints. Both 
of these goals were surpassed. Al
together, 213 students and faculty 
turned out to give blood.
New Record
On this date there were two 
other bloodmobiles operating in 
Pittsburgh, and between the three 
they collected more blood than on 
any previous day since the blood 
[Continued on page 3]Initiation, Dinner Held For Pledges Of Tan Beta Pi
At the annual intiation and din
ner on Sunday, May 3, Tau Beta 
Pi initiated 23 pledges for the 
spring of 1953.
Seniors include: James Powell, 
Robert Taylor, Edwin Wagner, 
John Kaufman, Robert Templeton, 
Manuel Cabarcos, Richard Reiter, 
Paul Pittman, John Higginbotham, 
James Fisher and Edward Previc.
The juniors initiated are: Fitz 
Randolph Winslow, John Butler, 
James Boyden, John Hoover, 
Frederick Dill, Joseph Bercsi, 
Alan Slepy, John Lescisin, Wilm 
Donath.
Three evening school students 
were initated. They are: Law
rence Flaugher, James Lindstrom, 
and Edward WesseL
Lecherous Scots 
Challenge Answered
Tartan, Guardian Of Justice, Will Defend Honor In Duel
A BLOW HAS BEEN STRUCK! A gauntlet has been 
flung in the face of the Tartan by the foul and murky editors 
of the Scot. We have, in short, been challenged to a duel. 
Not content with their radically unfair criticism of our 
paper, the controlling interests of the variety magazine 
seem intent on adding physical injury to insult. They wish 
to meet with us of the field of honor.
Our answer is wholehearted. It is with willingnessnay, 
pridethat we answer the foul belch of yesterdays Scot. 
It is with pleasure that we respond with dignity to the 
forces of chaos.
Indeed, it is the Tartan and not the Scot which has been 
maligned and insulted to the extent that satisfaction is man
datory. Let it not for a moment be thought that since it was 
the Scot that first laid down the challenge that they are the 
offended in this case. A logical analysis will show the exact 
opposite to be true.
Without resorting to a multitude of vague literary ref
erences and quotations out of context (as have our oppon
ents), we wish to announce publicly that we accept without 
reservation the challenge of the editor of the Scot to a duel.
In keeping with our privileges as the challenged, we 
name the place for the contest to be the Fine Arts lawn. 
The time shall be 2:00 p.m.
The weapons shall be custard pies, or some equally 
deadly instruments.
We cordially invite the public to attend and witness as 
the Right prevails.
LET JUSTICE BE DONE!
President Warner Announces 
Several Faculty Promotions
Glenn U. Cleeton Made Dean of Printing School 
Kenneth R. Burchard Will Be His Assistant
Faculty promotions at Carnegie Tech have been announced by 
President J. C. Warner. A new Dean and Assistant Dean, three full 
professors, 10 new associate, and nine new assistant professors have 
been named. All promotions will be effective September 1, 1953.
Glen U. Cleeton, Dean of H 
SS, and Director of Evening 
Classes, has been appointed Dean
of the newly-formed School of 
Printing Management, in addition 
to his other duties. Dean Cleeton 
received his B.S. degree from 
Missouri State Teachers college 
and his M.A. degree from the Uni
versity of Iowa. Mr. Cleeton is 
acting consultant on employment 
for Pittsburgh Railways and tech
nical advisor for the Better Traffic 
committee.
Kenneth R. Burchard, professor 
and head of the printing manage
ment department, has been named 
assistant dean of the new School 
of Printirig Management. Pro
fessor Burchard received his B.A. 
degree from William Jewell col
lege in Liberty, Missouri. Before 
joining the Carnegie Tech faculty 
in 1940, he was manager of photo 
mechanical sales at American 
Type Founders; Inc. Mr. Burch
ard has had many articles pub
lished by printing journals.
In the College of Engineering 
and Science, Elio DAppolonia has 
been promoted to associate pro
fessor of civil engineering, and 
Walter Kohn to associate pro- 1 
fessor of physics. Louis Depian 
has been named assistant pro- i 
fessor of electrical engineering, 1 
and Sui-chun Ying is now assist
ant professor of mathematics.
Fine Arts 
In the College of Fine Arts, | 
Hans A. Vetter has been pro- j 
moted to professor of architecture, i 
Appointed associate professors of j 
Fine Arts were Roland Jacobi I 
Leich, William Charles Libby, | 
Maria Malpi, and John Edward 
Pekruhn. New assistant profess- ! 
ors are Robert Hoffman Burdett,;
Walter De Salles Harris, Jr., cqd 
John Tucker Dreier.
Laura Ann Hays has been pro
moted to associate professor of 
secretarial studies, MMCC, and 
Joan Lowe will be a new assist
ant professor of biology.
Gladys Schmitt Goldfield has 
been promoted to professor of 
English in the Division of H & SS. 
New associate professoi's will be 
Margaret Foster LeClair, English; 
Richard Kenneth Murdoch, his
tory; and Sara Elizabeth Piel, 
modern languages. Eugene Louis 
Caliendo, and Emanuel Salgaller 
were appointed assistant professors 
of modern languages.
In the School of Industrial Ad
ministration, William Wager Coop
er has been appointed professor of 
economics and industrial admin
istration and Charles Carter Holt 
is now assistant professor of eco
nomics.
Draft Exam
Selective service has an
nounced that a college quali
fication test will be given on 
May 21, 1953. The deadline 
for filing applications is May 
11, 1953. Any selective serv
ice registrant who plans to 
continue next year as a full
time college student either at 
Carnegie or elsewhere, and 
who has not previously taken 
a selective service college 
Qualification test, is advised 
to apply for the May 21 test. 
Applications are available 
from any selective service lo
cal board.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, May 6, 1953
\
by Andy Stedry 
World Affairs
A new organization devoted to 
the discussion of current problems
in world affairs and the plan of 
world government proposed by the 
United World Federalists, held 
its first meeting Tuesday, May 5, 
at 11:30 a.m. This weeks meeting 
featured a discussion of Nor
man Cousins new book Who 
Speaks for Man? Under the fac
ulty sponsorship of Dr. Norman 
Dawes, history, and Mr. Bill War
ner, mathematics, the meetings are 
open to all interested students. 
Watch this column for future 
meetings.
The Playhouse
The Pittsburg-i debut of the 
Nancy Hamilton-Morgan Lewis 
production, Three to One, oc
curred May 2 and will run for a 
month. The show, a musical re
view, combines the best selections 
from the Morgan-Lewis produc
tions One for the Money, Two 
for the Show, and Three to Make 
Ready, into one sparkling, uncon
nected mass of hilarity. Helen 
Rauh. Florence Sando, Lucy Sei
bert, Bill Putch, and Mel Davidson, 
names familiar to many Tech stu
dents, will head the cast. You will
receive more information regard
ing times and prices as soon as we 
do.
From The Institute
Budding artists will be giving 
the birds, bees, and flowers some 
competition in Schenley park this 
summer. CIT will offer classes in 
art, photography, crafts, and flytying, with emphasis on fresh air 
and sunshine. The term began 
May 4, but you can still enroll by 
calling MA 1-7300 or going into 
the Public Relations office.
P. c. WOO.
The Opera Workshop at the 
Pennsylvania College for Women 
will present Mozarts comic opera 
Cosi Fan Tutte this Friday at 
Carnegie Hall. Time8:30, tick
ets55 cents to $2.20 available at 
; Gimbels and Hornes box office. 
' Incidentally, the English transla| tion of the complete title is So Do 
j They All, or School for Lovers. 
j Richard Karp, Pittsburgh Opera 
! musical director, will conduct the 
| performance of these ambitious 
young aspirants to stardom. P.S. 
This is in English.
The Nixon
Tobacco Road is back! Jack 
Kirklands stage rendition of Erskine Caldwells well-known novel
opened for a limited engagement 
on Monday. Complete and una
bridged; Broadway and Holly
wood actors in person. Evenings 
at 8:30, Wednesday matinee, 2:00, 
Saturday matinee, 2:30. Halfprice passes are available almost 
anywhere on campus. We have 
some extras.
Curtaineers 
The Irene Kaufmann Settle
ments unique inter-racial group, 
the Curtaineers, will present 
Truman Capotes The Grass 
Harp on May 14, 15, and 16. The 
time 8:30, the place, Irene Kauf
mann Settlement auditorium, 1835 
Centre avenue, the fee65 cents at 
the door.
Folk Music
The First Ballad Trio, nationally 
famous folk song singers and mu
sicians, will be the attraction 
Thursday, May 7, 8:15 p.m. at the 
Morris Kaufmann auditorium of 
the YM&WHA. The program is 
one in a series labeled Basin 
Street to Broadway via the Ozarks: 
Jazz, Musical and Folk Music of 
America.
Vogue Contest 
Open to next years seniors: first 
prizea years job on Vogue; six 
months in their gay Paris office. 
Second prizejust a six months 
job, and numerous honorable men
tions. For more information write, 
Prix de Paris Director, Vogue, 420 
Lexington Avenue, N. Y., N. Y.
Movie of the Week
Ezio Pinza and Roberta Peters 
technicolor musical Tonight We 
Sing. Laughs and music at the 
Squirrel Hill theater.
Authors Note 
Did we miss something? We 
wont, ii youll send notices of all
George Yanda 
Wins Award
Hyman Blum Sponsors 
Railing Design Contest
George Yanda, junior architect, 
was awarded first prize of $50 in 
an adchitectural competition 
sponsored by the Hyman Blum 
company. Yanda won with his 
original design of stair and mezanine failings for a furniture store.
An annual affair, the Hyman 
Blum competition is open to arch
itectural students. The students 
toured the Blum plant earlier this 
month and witnessed demonstra
tions of wrought metal work us
ing contemporary designs now in 
vogue. During the tour the stu
dents watched workmen con
structing a cantilevered spiral 
staircase. This staircase, made en
tirely of aluminum, is the first of 
its kind ever built and will be 
used between the 29th and 30th 
floors of the new Alcoa building.
Second prize of $35 was award
ed to Dan Goltz and $20 third 
prize was won by Robert Kauffeld. Honorable mention prizes 
went to R. E. Palmer, Charles 
Krause, and Ronald Friedman. All 
six winners are in their third year 
here at Tech.
open meetings, events of interest, 
performances, in fact, anything of 
campus interest, to Andy Stedry, 
c/o the Tartan.
Carnival
Fix
Ken-Penn moves in (upper left) 
to transform the dust-bowl cut into 
the 1953 Spring Carnival grounds 
where the circus booths and rides 
will be set up. A friendly discus
sion (upper right) takes place 
about who will reign over the big 
weekend. Identity of the queen is 
a deep secret until the Coronation 
ceremony on Friday at 1:00 p.m. 
on the Fine Arts lawn. Float prep
aration (center left) gets under 
way for the circus parade on Fri
day. A complete schedule of floats 
appears on page seven.
Flowers Optional 
Admiring trophies for the event 
winners (center right) are couples 
at last years big dance. Eddy 
Howards orchestra is featured at 
this years Saturday night Corona
tion Ball. The dance will be for
mal with flowers optional. Eager 
pushers (bottom right) practice for 
the sweepstakes pushmobile races. 
Preliminaries will be run on Fri
day morning and the Finals on 
Saturday. Trophies will be award
ed at intermission for the best 
looking, and for the fastest buggy. 
Weary workers (bottom center) 
take five from the task of con
juring up a prize winning float. 
Awards for best floats will also be 
made during Saturday night in
termission. The midway (bottom 
left) draws the crowd between 
scheduled events of the Carnival 
Circus.
The Chief Thing, Is Final Spring Drama Production
By Sob Livingston
For its final offering this year, 
the drama department is present
ing The Chief Thing, a comedy 
of happiness by Nicholas Evreinoff. The play concerns itself 
with the idea that happiness is 
merely an illusion and people 
must be made happy.
The cast is headed by Ellis Rabb, 
who portrays five characters. He | 
is supported by Joan NortonTaylor, Paul Shively, Peggy 
Maurer, Bob Dunn, Helen Gay
lord, Mary Benedict, Stan Watt, 
Fay Weiss, Harry Lantz, and 
Lucia French. There is a play 
within a play, the cast of which 
consists of Leo Meyer, Larry 
Bloom, Harry Frank, Jane McRae, 
Dick McFadden, Jim Coakley, Ar
lene Stadd, Sue Hopkins, and Ted J 
Goodell.
The play is directed by Charles 
Moore, whose efforts will be re
membered as producing Golden 
Boy last fall. Mr. Moore says that 
The Chief . Thing will be a re
warding theatre experience, since 
it takes many forms, exploring the 
mystical and realistic.
Tickets for The Chief Thing 
will be distributed at the drama 
department office from 4:00-5:00 
p.m. on Thursday, May 7. The pro
duction opens Tuesday, May 12, 
and will through the 21.

---------------------------------------------------

Blood Donor
An unidentified editor of the Scot spills forth black gore for 
the benefit of the armed forces in a vain effort to atone for his sin* 
(See stories about the Blood Drive and the Scot on page 1).
rin, Joyce Teemer, and Ann Fair- i 
banks, while John Senko, Shelia 
Sullivan, and Bill Magis worked 
on posters. A complete file of j 
everyone who donated blood is be
ing kept so that future chairmen 
will know who to contact in set
ting up their drives.
W.NCH AMNCPMI
Dances
Patronize Tartan Advertisers
Set after set, on any playing sur
face, these Twins of Champion
ship Tennis deliver "new ball* 
performance ...maintain their 
precision-built accuracy of flight 
and bounce!
In every National Championship, 
U. S. Davis Cup and Wightman 
Cup match ... in major tourna
ments everywhere , . . Spaldinginade tennis balls are the Official 
choice. Try a Spalding or Wright 
& Ditson and youll know why.
fcts ita Pttt il Tinsi*
fRIGHT t ffr\TSONDr.We bstN t.JN WN
 CHAMPIONSHIP /
4
ff APP* U-S.l.T.A.SPALDINGCHAMPIONSHIP
Selective Service Qualification 
Test To Be Held May 21
Applications for the May 21 selective service college qualifica
tion test must be submitted to the Educational Testing Service, Prince
ton, New Jersey, not later than midnight, May 11.
The May 21 test is primarily for students prevented by illness
? or other emergencies from taking 
' the test April 23, although thisMrs. Warde Speaks About T y pogr aphy On Mon., May 11
Mrs. Beatrice Warde, the first 
American woman to achieve in
ternational recognition as a writer 
and expert on typography, will 
speak in the SIA auditorium on 
Monday, May 11, at 2:00 p.m. Mrs. 
Warde, an executive of the Mon
otype corporation limited, Eng
land, is now making one of her 
periodic visits home. She is 
speaking under the auspices of the 
Lanston Monotype machine com
pany to groups of printers, designdoes not bar any qualified stu
dent from taking the test if his 
application is mailed before the 
deadline. Students who have a 
certificate of admission for the 
April 23 test which they failed to 
use, must submit new applications 
if they wish to take the May 21 
test. The old certificates will not 
admit a student to the May 21 
test.
To be eligible to take the Se
lective Service college qualifica
tion test, an applicant on the 
testing date must be a selective 
service registrant who intends to 
request deferment as a student; 
must be satisfactorily pursuing 
a full-time college course, under
graduate or graduate, leading to 
a degree; must not previously 
have taken the test.
The criteria for consideration 
for deferment as a student at the 
time are either & score of 
or better on the selective servcollege qualification test, or 
class standing among the male 
in the upper half of the 
freshman class, upper two-thirds 
of the sophomore class, or upper 
three-fourths of the junior class 
Seniors accepted for admission to 
graduate school satisfy the cri 
teria if they are among the upper 
half of the male members of their 
senior class, or if they make 
score of 75 or better.
Blood
tContinued from page 1]
drive began. Of these bloodmobiles, the one at Tech collected the 
most blood.
Equipment was set up in the 
basement of the SIA building un
der the direction of John McCar
thy and Alpha Phi Omega. Mary 
Jane Opris and A1 Blank were cochairmen of the drive.
Students Help
Upon discovering there were 
more donors than had been antici
pated, the Red Cross workers 
asked that more cots be provided 
to speed up the procedure. The 
ROTC department volunteered the 
use of their cots. Many of the 
student blood donors came to the 
rescue by offering their services to 
the nurses in the blood donating 
room throughout the day. The 
Red Cross said they received more 
cooperation from students on cam
pus than they have ever received 
anywhere else.
Publicity for the blood drive was 
two fold in procedure. Personal 
contact was handled by Mary MurC Club Elects 
Years Officers;
At the last meeting of the C 
club, new officers were elected for 
the 1953-54 school year. Arnie 
Olds, president; Dick Major, vicepresident; James Miller, treasurer; 
and John Muller, secretary.
Irv Shechter, retiring president, 
announced that the C club dance 
for next year will be held on Octo
ber 3, and that Brad Hunt has been 
contracted for the dance. There is 
also a picnic tentatively scheduled 
for May 17. All varsity athletes 
are invited.
Wednesday, May 8, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage t
Sale, OPS/O*SOASA mce
Service | f I EL Will I tllO Supplies
NEW PORTABLES for RENT
WEEK  MONTH  TERM 
Free Delivery and Pick-Up Service
.U-C/ l* TERBLf
ALLIED OFFICE MACHINES CO.
3806 Forbes Street
For the BEST
In 
Photographic 
Equipment and Supplies
Liberty 
Photo
Supply
GR 1-4447   434 Wood St.
tuy. uour ^fmicrj at
JEAN'S FLOWER SHOP
Pfcone: 1930 Murray Avenu
JAckson 1-5603 Squirrel Hill
HNMS*MO/ /CHC//NW
An invitation to go places
AERONAUTICAL  MECHANICAL  ELECTRONIC 
STRUCTURAL * PRODUCTION
ENGINEERING
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for 
advancement, and an excellent starting salary await you at 
Fairchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for.
We have openings right now for qualified engineers and 
designers in all phases of aircraft engineering; wi need 
top-notch men to help us in our long-range military 
program: turning out the famous C-119 Flying Boxcars 
and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
W.NCHNAM provides paid vacations and liberal health and 
ILe insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week 
as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week w 
scheduled.
wm W WSfUat CSWOMTtO*
(9PF lAI RCHILD /ima/t Divtiwn
MAOIISTOWN, MAIYLANO
SPEED/ CONTROL/ 
LONG LtFEf
Mrs. Beatrice Warde
Typographer to Speak May 11
in 14 cities in the United States 
and Canada. Her major theme on 
this tour, her first since 1950, will 
be The Future of Typography 
and How You Can Affect It.
A. New Yorker by birth and a 
graduate of Barnard college, Mrs. 
Warde entered the field of type 
and printing by serving for three 
years as bibliographer of the fam
ous Bullen collection, now in the 
hands of Columoia university.
.Later, after extensive research 
in London and Paris, she won ac
claim for solving the Garamond 
Enigma, the mystery surrounding 
the origin of that type face. Her 
findings proved that the design 
was incorrectly attributed to the 
16th century engraver, Claude 
Garamond, who lived 100 years be
fore the type face first appeared.
Afraid that little attention 
would be paid a woman writing 
about printing, Mrs. Warde used 
the pen name Paul Beau j on in 
all her typographic writings. Sight 
unseen, the Monotype corporation 
offered Mr. Beaujon the editor
ship of its scholarly publication 
to which he had. contributed 
many times.
Soon Mrs. Warde was recogniz
ed in her own right. She was the 
first woman ever invited to speak 
at Stationers ^all, the guild home 
of London publishers.
During World War II, Mrs. 
Warde helped to organize Books 
Across the Sea, whose American 
group was sponsored by the Eng
lish speaking unit. In 1942, at great 
personal risk, she brought to the 
United States 82 newly published 
English books, to make sure that 
at least one copy of each would 
reach America.
More BOUNCE to the Ounce

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, May 6, 1953
Editorial
The Drama Decision
JLX
The problem of student activities is one 
which gets a lot of attention,* verbally at 
least. Hardly a day goes, by that we do not 
hear someone talking about student organi
zations, and complaining that the state of 
affairs here is not what it should be.
JBuJ; usually the conditions complained of 
are the result of student inaction; it is al
most never that an activity comes face to 
face with troubles originating outside stu-' 
dent indifference. This is why we feel that 
the case of the Tartan and the department 
of drama should receive notice; it is an un
usual case, and one that should be held as 
important.
It will be remembered that the Tartan 
printed, on April 1, a student review of 
Henry IV, Part I. Thereafter the drama de
partment objected and the question was 
taken to the Administration. The solution 
was not in favor of the Tartan.
So far as we can tell this is the first time 
the student newspaper has actually been told 
not to print a given feature. We hope this de
cision is not the first in a series of actions 
leading to complete control of publications by 
the institution. Such a system is, from our 
point of view, highly undesirable.
We do not pretend that this decision was 
completely one sided. Our position has been 
reviewed by a number of officials, and, we would like to 
believe, considered seriously. The points against student re
views such as we would like to run are legitimate, though, 
we believe, exaggerated.
As we understand them, the arguments of the Adminis
tration are twofold:
1. Drama department productions are actually classroom 
work; they are not meant for public approval. Thus all 
decisions relating to the department are in its own hands. 
The drama faculty feels that any sort of public com
mentary on its work is a hindrance, and a serious one.
If the Tartan, or any other paper, reviews their plays, 
their students will heed the paper rather than the instruc
tors. Hie result of this would be a situation intolerable 
to the department.
2. As long as the department of drama feels the way it does, 
and is doing a creditable job (which, we certainly will 
not deny, it is), all decisions relating to the department, 
says the Administration, shall be in hands of the depart
ment.
These points seem quite sensible at first glance, and there 
is undoubtedly a lot of validity in them. But we feel that 
a mountain is being made of a molehill. We cannot see that 
the nuisance value of the Tartan as a reviewer of drama 
productions would be great enough to cause significant trou
ble. We cannot convince ourselves that the writings of a 
student, a non-arts student, will be of much effect on the 
mind of a drama student, who is training for a profession 
where he will constantly be in the public eye.
Secondly, where does the realm of the drama department 
stop, and that of others begin? Should the Tartan be considered 
subordinate to scholastic endeavors to the extent that it is con
trolled by a department of the institution?
To what extent is this an educational institution, a factory 
of classrooms and laboratories, and to what extent shall the 
student activities program be permitted to act as a free unit and 
voice of the student body?
In short, is the highly praised concept of the well round
ed education, where the engineer has an appreciation of the 
arts and humanities, all that it is cracked up to be? Or are 
we to be stymied whenever the actions of a student organi
zation become mildly annoying to one of the educational de
partments?
This is a very real problem, and one that should be clari
fied.
The question is many sided, and could not possibly be 
explored fully in this limited space. We have tried to present 
both sides to some extent, though we could not present each 
fully. We hope that those on the other side of the fence do 
not feel slighted by our analysis.
o-r SNMlM
VOL.46
The Iron Curtain
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 1J, Pa. TELEPHONE: 
SCheniey 1-4557; after hours SChenley 1-9846; for advertising and subscriptions 
HAzel 1-5360. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and ex
amination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 
13, Pa.
Editor-in-chief ....................................... ................................................................... Oick Durstine
Business Manager  ............................................................................................ Jerry Seiner
Managing Editor .........................................../............................................................. Wilson Sick
New Editor .......................... ............. ................................................................. Jo Forsythe
Sports Editor .......................... ..................... ................................................. Frank Fegley
Personnel Manager ,.................................................................... Paul Carmichael
Represented tor national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., 
College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription 
$1,10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on October 4. 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879 Accepted for mailing at special 
rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Pres, Intercollegiate Press,
Letters
Looking for Trouble
Editor, the Tartan:
This letter concerns the motion that is before 
CFP which would extend the period before a 
freshman could accept a bid to two weeks. The 
reasons why this motion was advanced are fairly 
obvious. Many people feel that the week alloted 
for rushing in the fall does not give the freshman 
time to become familiar enough with the fraternity 
system or the people that make them up. The con
verse is also true. The fraternity does not have 
enough time to select the men they want. A week 
is a short time to choose the people you are going 
to live with for ihe next several years.
Now lets examine the motion and see how this 
proposed extension would affect the fraternities 
and the freshmen. As far as the freshman goes, 
all it means is that he will have more time to 
make up his mind about what fraternity to join, 
whether to join a fraternity, or wait another sem
ester until pledging.
The effect on the fraternities is much more 
detailed, but there would be little change in the 
rushing itself. The greatest effect would be on the 
financial burden put on the fraternity, which means 
higher bills for the members. From figures I have 
been able to obtain, a fraternity spends anywhere 
from $50 to $80 for each pledge they obtain. This 
money usually comes out of the active members 
pockets. To increase this rush period, without any 
reservations, would mean that the price of each 
pledge would go up at least one third. Fraternities 
are beginning to find themselves in a position where 
they can very easily price themselves out of busi
ness. _
To compensate for this, it has been proposed 
that the fraternities be allowed to serve only a 
certain number of meals during the rush period. 
The free meals dispensed are the biggest expense 
of rushing. The proposed motions would not cut 
the cost of rushing, but more or less act as a 
stabilizer to keep them on the present plane, pro
vided the week were added.
The added week would not take the intensity 
out of rushing, but intensify it for another week. 
This would mean extending it into the first week 
of school. There is no doubt that the fraternity 
men would find time for the rushing during the 
added week, but at the expense of what? Studies 
seem to be the answer.
I do not believe that another week is going to 
mean that a freshman will know fraternities bet
ter, or vice-versa. It would tak& a semester, to 
actually understand fraternities at least. I agree 
that the rushing policy used on campus is not the 
best, but the percentage of mistakes made during 
the first week is very small. After all, we must 
give the incoming freshman credit for some intel
ligence. They are not as dumb as made out to 
be when it comes to this question. The poor fresh
man approach is played up too much.
Another aspect that should not be overlooked is 
the cooperation between fraternities. There has 
not been a case of infraction of the rushing rules 
for several years now. One of the main reasons for 
this is that the rules are liberal. With the exten
sion of rushing into the first week of school, the 
fraternities are going to find themselves involved
Times And Tech
The education section of last Sundays 
New York Times contains an article that 
should be of interest to every red blooded 
CIT student; Carnegie Tech has made the 
news.
For some 30 column inches, Dr. Benjamin 
Fine, education editor for the Times, has dis
cussed and analyzed this institution and its 
problems. And the result of his analysis, be
sides a rehash of the Carnegie plan (which, 
though perhaps new to many Times readers, 
need hardly be explained in the Tartan), 
give some interesting facts about this school 
and its operations.
Rising Prices
Of first importance is the effort now be
ing made to woo the business interests into 
closer cooperation with education (see story 
on page seven). In recent years increasing 
emphasis has been placed on the fact that 
industry hires engineers, and that engineers 
come from colleges. This provides an in
ducement for the industries to kick in for the 
advancement of college educations in the 
engineering line.
And this extra cash is quite useful, judg
ing from the figures quoted by Dr. Fine. In 
the past six years the Carnegie water bill has 
risen from $9300 to $24,200 (are students 
drinking more water??). Other services have 
gone up in a very similar manner; and facul
ty salaries have, since 1939, hopped 68 per 
cent.
The Times goes to generalize that oper
ating costs in general, have nearly doubled 
over the past 12 years, though tuition fees 
have i not inflated proportionately.
Planned Buildings
And the only problem is not rising prices. 
There are also extensive plans in progress 
for expansion, if only the funds can be found. 
The Times tells us that Carnegie hopes to 
raise faculty salaries, and build a library, 
student union, new cafeteria, and other 
buildings.
But funds for these things cannot come 
from tuition. The price to the student for 
an education has expanded from $75 per year 
in 1918, through several jumps to the present 
$680. If it were to rise much higher, enroll
ment would likely suffer.
Research Stressed
In view of these things, recent grants 
such as those from Sloan Foundation, Union 
Carbide, Lockheed, and Bethlehem Steel are 
steps in the right direction.
According to President Warner, The in
creasing support of industries, foundations, 
alumni, and other friends has saved us from 
disaster.
Under the new scholarship plans which 
have been blossoming out this year, not only 
the student, but the school as well gets finan
cial assistance. And in return, the institu
tion trains men for later use in industry and 
partakes of fundamental research which in 
many cases serves as a direct aid to indus
try. Accordingly, the role of CIT as a re
search center has been greatly stressed of 
late, particularly with the industrial re
search conferences that have occured here 
several times this year.
Other Implications
And all this is rather interesting in the 
light of events of the past week. The eleva
tion of Dean Jones to the Vice-Presidency 
and indeed the very fact that a Vice-Presi
dency has been establishedis pertinent to 
the situation being discussed here. Though 
Dr. Jones will still be chief go-between in 
student-draft board relations, he will also 
be closely interested in research projects, 
particularly as they relate to industry.
What it seems to amount to is a concerted 
effort to further industrial relations even 
more, for reasons which have been discussed 
already.
Also of interest while we are thinking of 
changes around Tech is the question of new 
Deans. With Jones and Cleeton moving up
stairs, and Dean Alexander of MMCC retir
ing, there will be a few choice posts open 
to aspiring candidates. But who these will 
be we can only speculate until something 
definite appears.
in a new, complicated set of regulations. This may 
very well lead to hard feelings and infractions of 
the rules. v
Since the proposed motion does not accomplish 
its purpose, the fraternities should give much 
thought to whether they want to leave themselves 
open .for many problems while standing still.
Sincerely yours, 
Paul D. Carmichael.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 6, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
Dulles Hopes For Defense 
Treaty Agreement Soon
I By Professor Robert Schwarz
A few days ago, Secretary of State Dulles, returning from Paris, 
reported to the nation. He said that he hoped to see a quick ratifi
cation of the European Defense Community agreement on the part 
of the various parliaments. What is happening to the ratification of 
this agreement which was concluded last year?
The focus of the problem seems to be on Germany, which the 
other countries evidently are watching before doing anything about 
ratification themselves. Of the countries concerned, Germany made 
the first move when the lower house of the Federal government sanc| tioned both the peace pact between Germany and the western Allies, 
and German participation in the European Defense Community. 
This move was greeted by the State Department as a step in the 
right direction. Dr. Adenauer, whose party favors both peace pact 
and EDC, was congratulated by Mr. Dulles on his recent visit to 
Washington.
Constitutionality Test
The situation, however, does not appear to be so pretty any more. 
The West German Socialists, who reject the two measures, partly 
because of their sincere belief that German unification must precede 
a Western alliance, party because they follow party politics, exacted 
) a promise from President Heuss not to sign the bills before they 
are tested for their constitutionality. This was a clever strategic 
gesture becaues the Supreme Court may well declare the EDC 
agreement unconstitutional: the Germany constitution does not provide 
for rearmament.
Dr. Adenauer reacted by a countermove as sly as that of the 
Socialist leader, Ollenhauer. He sent the bill back to the lower house 
with the request that that body vote on its approval of a test of 
constitutionality. Since his party is the majority party in the socalled Bundestag, he may thus emerge the victor in this compliy eated struggle. The Socialists accuse the Christian Democrats of in
tending to consolidate their position in what Ollenhauer regards as 
a temporary, improvised state; Ollenhauers position is that the 
Bonn government has no right to make such long-range policy as 
rearmament, foreign alliances, and peace pacts, since this would 
constitute a tacit understanding that the two Germanys are and 
of rights ought to be two separate countries.
Other Nations Watch
Two notions emerge as inescapable conclusions from this im
passe. First, far from being able to promise Mr. Dulles prompt ac
tion which would meet American wishes, Dr. Adnauer may indeed be 
^ locked in a fight for his political life with the uncompromising So
cialists, who apparently seek to get into office as soon as possible.
Secondly, the success or failure of American ambitions to create 
EDC without more delay will hinge on this issue. Generals Ridge
way and Gruenther have reiterated their conviction that Germany 
is indispensable in EDC. The other members-to-be of EDC excuse 
their passivity by arguing that they are unwilling to defend Germany 
in case Russia marches, if the Germans themselves do not contribute 
to the common effort. To what degree this excuse is a rationaliza
tion is another question. The fact remains that the optimism which 
prevailed last month in the American press over the action of the 
J Bundestag was short-lived.
Sally Clark 
YWCA Head
Others Elected To Help 
During Coming Year
The newly elected officers of the 
Tech YWCA cabinet are now 
making plans for a revised pro
gram next year. The president, 
Sally Clark, and the cabinet, ad
visory board, and the administra
tion, are working to achieve a 
complete reorganization of the as
sociation.
Vice-president Margie Penney 
and her assistant, Carolyn Gor
don, are planning an extensive 
big-little sister program and tea. 
Working on the activities openhouse held during freshman week 
and other events following it, is 
Pitsa Theodore, program chair
man.
A campus-wide project to be
gin next October is being formu
lated in detail by Margaret Kuhn, 
projects chairman. The member
ship co-chairmen, Barbara Bul
ger and Lois Campsey, the public
ity committee of Mary and Mar
tha Dabney, Geraldine Jackson, 
and Alice Lindberg, and the YMYW program co-ordinator, Lynne 
Miller, are planning their respec
tive parts of the program. Alysann 
Bradburn, secretary, and Jean 
Ward, treasurer, round out the 
YWCAs staff-of officers.
Seniors
On Tuesday, May 12, at 
11:30 a.m. in the Little The
ater, Dr. B. R. Teare, Jr. and 
Dr. J. W. Graham, Jr. will 
speak to engineering seniors. 
Dr. Teare, Dean of the gradu
ate school will speak to the 
seniors on Your Profession a 
Development. Dr. Graham, 
Assistant Dean of the Engi
neering and Science College, 
plans to talk on Engineering 
Registration. Tau Beta Pi is 
sponsoring the assembly.Omicron Nu Elects Officers For Year
Recently elected officers of the 
Alpha Xi chapter of Omicron Nu, 
home economics honorary, are: 
president, Jean Treharne; vicepresident, Joan Stewart; secre
tary, Sally Clark; treasurer, Lois 
Hamilton; editor, Dorothy Chiavetta.
Omeicron Nus future plans in
clude a farewell banquet for the 
seniors on May 14. Plans are be
ing made for a year of service 
to the field of home economics in 
1953-54.
LETS GO TO
WMIFtW
lheG W14G7 
3hd c7 An74: A907 
uay ve90hG7 
O4Jk Is0c17
Three Stores to the Coliege 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes St., Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Altteo
Your I.D. CARD Means15% off
TIME SHOP
On
 Watch Repairs
 Lighters  Gifts
 Watches  Jewelry
 Identification Bracelets
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077 
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
rNMO/NCO/WGET YOUR CARNIVAL SUPPLIES AT THE METAL WAREHOUSE
Aluminum 
Bronze 
Brass 
Copper 
Monel 
Nickel 
Inconel 
Monel Clad 
Nickel Clad 
Inconel Clad 
Rosslyn Metal 
Stainless Steel 
Primary Nickel 
Ferro Alloys
Non-Corrosive Fastenings 
and Accessories
Fittings and Valves
Safety Equipment
Seamless Steel Tubing
Welded Steel Tubing
Boiler Tubes
Refrigeration and
Air Conditioning Supplies
Welding Supplies
Welding Machines
Welding Wire
Comploto stock corried m all fivo warehouses
- yr
WILLIAMS & COMPANY, Inc.
General Office and Main Warehouse 
901 Pennsylvania Ave., Pgh. 33 CEdar 1-8600
Cleveland - Cincinnati - Columbus - Toledo
By the Drain-Os
SPRING  Spring is upon us 
with all the wonderful(?) things 
that go with it. First of all, it 
seems that CIT has been turned 
into an army camp, picnic ground, 
and summer theatre. Deep sub
jects are being discussed in the 
students favorite vacated airplane 
hangar. These intellectual debates 
range anywhere from carnival to 
sex to groans about finals to sex 
to baseball to sex to cutting classes 
to sex to sex . . .
DIFFICULTIES OF EXIST
ENCELife has been complicated 
by all the hardnosed faculty in
sisting that classes be held. These 
wisdom hours consistently inter
fere with the Bohemian atmos
phere of our draft dodging sanc
tum. To all the confusion of pos
ter warfare, an invasion by frus
trated West Point rejectees de
pleted our beautiful, ultra-smooth 
Cut with the pool table finish, into 
a replica of the Florida Everglades. 
The highlight of this choreographic 
extravaganza staged by the Persh
ing Rifle Ballet company was the 
playing of the latest jump platters 
between the acts.
THE MARCH OF TIMEAfter 
three days of recuperating from 
this May Day celebration, our at
tention was diverted by the mel
odic strains of a steam calliope 
and the pitter and patter of prima 
donnas dainty feet. These glori
fied dancing dollies in grease paint 
camouflage brought forth the tal
ent of Oaklands Paulovas in tho 
making. Everything from kisses 
to cookies were being passed out 
in an effort that some lucky (?) 
girl would have the honor of shiv
ering on a float in Techs Ringling 
Brothers circus. Once again the 
great, glorious holiday of rain, 
fire extinguishers, and the engin
eers answer to the soap box derby 
is upon us.
Tech To Send 
Four Professors 
To Convention
Four Carnegie Tech professors 
have meen chosen by the Center 
for the study of liberal education 
for adults to serve as delegates to 
a series of faculty seminars to be 
held in Chicago on May 8-9, and 
May 15-16.
Robert Schwarz, assistant pro
fessor of history; F. Curtis Swan
son, associate professor of history; 
Donald M. Goodfellow, associate 
professor of English; and Doro
thy Goodfellow, instructor of Eng
lish, will represent Tech, along 
with 100 other educators from 
over 40 evening colleges through
out the country.
The purpose of the faculty sem
inars is the improvement, by the 
teaching faculty itself, of evening 
college courses, materials, and 
teaching methods in the field of 
liberal education for adults.
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
How to make points with good looks
Looking smart is no problem. 
You start with a Manhattan label 
... you wind up in Style. And in 
the host of Manhattan collar 
styles youre sure to find more 
than one collar that makes style 
points for you. Youll like the 
extra comfort and long wear in 
every Manhattan shirt, too! Stop 
in at your nearest Manhattan 
mens shop today  see many 
more most - for - your - money 
values in distinctive Manhattan 
mens wear.

---------------------------------------------------

tCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, May 6, 153
After Heroic Effort, Perplexed 
Alchemist Succumbs To Plan
By John J. John, Jr., as told to R. Durstine <
On the grayish plaster of the walls in my bleak, monastic cubi
cle in lovely McBoss Hall, there hangs but one decoration, a calendar 
donated to me by a local cleaning establishment and adorned by an 
attractive though not very well dressed young lady. I glanced at 
this calendar just three days ago,4-------------------------------------------------------------
and noticed to my utter dismay ( But orders are ord and l wag 
that the month of May is hard , off to gtart k Qn my paper>
^.SP.118 ... .. .35 pages or more. First I went toThis means many things, all of | the Bookstore to check with their 
which can be observed in actual | extensive collection o college 
practice with a little effort. ; Qutline Serieg textg and gee what
Cover Charge they have to say about roots and
First of all, my favorite dining j herbs, particularly in ancient
hall, Skibo, has been supplied with 
a quantity of unsanitary napkins, 
which tend to leave my upper lip 
emblazoned with the names of two
Rome.
Nothing. For some reason this
subject has been neglected; I
, , , , . should like to suggest that Studentfemale students who are running j CouncU get tQ WQrk and remedy
for something or other. In con
junction with this, Skibo has been 
unusually crowded, probably be
cause of the floor show that occurs 
on some days.
the situation.
More Troubles
My next stop was the library. 
Unfortunately, however, the only
If they try to slap a cover charge comprehensive book on the subon me, I shall take my business to ject is printed "by a rare and exotic 
the Woodlawn pharmacy in the fu- process, and one out of every 
ture. seven pages has been removed to
Roots and Ilerbs serve as a sample for enterprising
But far worse than the incon- printing freshman. This left me 
venimces caused in my personal with only magazines to consult, 
life by the influx of Indians and , Finally, convinced that I was on 
wandering minstrels onto our fair the right track, I settled down at a 
campus are the demands of the table with a file of the Root and 
classroom. Only yesterday, Pro- Herb Journal for the years 1923 
fessor Tuber of the history depart- | to 1953. Outside I could hear the 
ment strode into my class in the j thumping of marching feet, as 
history of roots and herbs (a some of my classmates played solbroadening course for engineers), j djer on the Cut to the music of 
put .his sheaf of cross references jack Armour and his Natural Sevspecially prepared for class dis- en.
cussion on the desk, anc* said, [ Uncluttered by Facts
WRCTSchedule
Wednesday, May 6
6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15Guest Star 
6:30Dinner Music 
7:00-RCA Victor Opera Night 
10:00Musical Miscellany 
11:00Sports Round-up 
11:15Final Edition
Thursday, May 7
6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15Proudly We Hail 
6:45Dinner Music 
7:00Masterworks from France 
7:30Thme RCA Victor Hour 
8:00The Gilbert and Sullivan Hour 
10:00Lacey 11:00Sports Round-up 
11:15Final Edition
Munday, May 9
1:00Recorded Music For Sunday 
3:00Sunday Afternoon and Music 
5:00Lucky Strike News 
5:15Music
5:30Serenade In Blue 
5:45Adventures In Research 
6:00The WRCT Symphony Hour 
9:00Music That Lives For You 
10:00The Red Seal Hour 
11-00Sports Round-up 
11:15Final Edition
Monday, May 11
6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15The Hodge Podge 8 00The RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
9:00Enosupo 
10:00Dream Time 11:00Sports Round-up 
11:15Final Edition
ham, Jr., assitant dean of E&S, 
says I regard Dr. Jones as the 
heart of Carnegie Tech ... a
helping hand to every student, 
whose problems are immediately 
his problems.
Gentlemen (he always calls usWithin the library several stu-gentlemen for some unfathomable dents were engaged in a heated. 
reason), I notice that we (that is, j discussion, while another was busy 
I) have a day off this Fndav. Since C0mp0Sing a percussion symphony 
you wont be in class then, you can with a pencil Qn a tabletop. A11 in 
-pend the day writing a paper, the aU> things got rather distracting,
topic of which will be Roots and 
Herbs in Ancient Rome. This 
does not have to be a long effort; 
and in fact I have seen some very 
excellent comments on this sub
ject that did not exceed 35 pages. 
Are there any questions?
As usual when the instructor 
asks for questions there were 
no questions.
The feelings of the class were 
mixed. Some seemed as though 
they had been anxious for at least 
a year to write a paper on this 
subject, and were finally being 
given their big chance.
Others glowered and muttered, 
implying that Professor Tuber 
lacks some of the qualities of a 
gentleman.
Research
The rest of us just sat stunned, 
the way we do when we hear that 
the Pirates have lot a baseball 
gamee.
and my mind wandered before I 
could get deep into the subject I 
was pursuing. The situation 
seemed hopeless.
So, at the end of my endurance, 
I left the library, and headed for 
Skibo and coffee, content in the 
decision that I would write my 
paper from the heart, my mind 
uncluttered by facts; my thoughts 
unprejudiced by the writings of 
past authors. This way I could 
apply the Carnegie Plan to best 
advantage.
Veterans
Requisitions for books, sup
plies, and equipment for the 
spring semester 1953 cannot 
be honored by the Book Store 
after May 9, 1953.
PanHell Elects 
its New Officers;Jo Wielil Prexy
PanHell has elected its officers 
for the 1953-54 school year. The 
new president and vice-president 
are Jo Wiehl and Betty Hurd re
spectively. Alysann Bradburn was 
elected secretary, and Lynn Cohen, 
treasurer.
PanHell members are now com
pleting plans for the Workshop, 
slated for May 13. At that time, 
Techs seven sororities will meet 
and discuss their common prob
lems in an open forum.
Jones
[Continued from page I]
Service lieutenant in World War I, 
he played a leading role in various 
government defense organizations 
during the second WorlS War.
Before coming to Tech in 1932, 
Dr. Jones, a resident of 562 Briar 
Cliff road, was a member of the 
research staff of B. F. Goodrich 
Rubber company.
Colleagues describe Dr. Jones as 
a man with a tremendous heart, a 
man who has counseled more stu
dents than imaginable in his 21 
years at Tech. .Dr. John W. GraA4:5s c457n 
c4ee J9n A9G7
Everything's in high gear at May Fete time 
... keeps you on the go.
,i(fh Good idea is to pause now and then for a Coke.
 OTTlfO UNCM AWTHOlTY Of THI COCA COI* COMPANY  Y 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY Of PITTSBURGH
54? Center Avenue 
M o f94f*r*d rode mork.
IllUnd I-0II
Q m3, THt cocA-coiA compam
Worried ?
/6Ml Ol/
h -sqeh07 Oh:7
------COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES--------
l9q17nt S4k 
iii l4k Dq1mm
N7:7:p7n U7n ohq1 M A4n 
-n M 399Gwww o7 U4&7 BOTH!
AwwOw
Bookstore
N-F F/NC/N 3//W/
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, INC.
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
A World-Beater For Comfort 
Students Say Of Arrow Bi-Way
Recent surveys on Americas campuses show that Arrow 
Bi-Way is gaining in popularity every day. The reason: 
the low-setting, no-neckband collar that gives extra free
dom at the throat for extra comfort. Available at all 
Arrow dealers.
ARROW SHIRTS
WUNOW i O*W i *CSJJqoJMN w UMlSv*AU .W u SPORTS SHIRTS

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May , 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPace f
Wertz
I WP Put P***With P3*?^ j~ne I always rurt
S ""pe-y-v
40 I*Av/W
TASTE BETTER!
Cleaner, Fresher, Smoother!
Ask yourself this question: Why do I smoke?
You know, yourself, you smoke for enjoyment. 
And you get enjoyment only from the taste of a 
cigarette.
Luckies taste bettercleaner, fresher, smooth ?r!
taste of Lucky Strike...
C A. T.Co.
Why? Luckies are made better to taste better. And, 
whats more, Luckies are made of fine tobacco. 
L.S./M.F.T.Lucky Strike Means Fine Tobacco.
So, for the thing you want most in a cigarette... 
for better taste for the cleaner, fresher, smoother
Be Happy-OO LUCKY!
COLLEGE STUDENTS PREFER LUCKIES 
IN NATION-WIDE SURVEY!
Nation-wide survey based on actual student in
terviews in 80 leading colleges reveals more 
smokers prefer Luckies than any other cigarette 
by a wide margin. No. 1 reasonLuckies better 
taste. Survey also shows Lucky Strike gained 
far more smokers in these colleges than the na
tions two other principal brands combined.
 j aWg qrades school 
li Luckies could m L term - 
' Ml fulta pa^*cy^Sirof i'r"v
HaroU Lee Sn^'Snw-tt.CcO.i'
IfOOBCT or AMERICAS LEADING MANUFACTURER
Carnival
Float Parade
The annual Float parade 
which is one of the high-lights 
of Spring Carnival, will take 
place at 3:00 p.m. on Friday, 
May 8. The floats will start at 
Morwood Gardens, turn left 
and go up Forbes street, turn 
right into Margaret Morrison, 
and then up Tech street. The 
judges stand will be in front 
of the gym.
The order of march with the 
name of the floats is as fol
lows: Kiltie Band; Queens 
Float; Kappa Sigma, The Hu
man Cannonball; Tau Delta 
Phi, Circus Train; Sigma Nu, 
The Circus Parade; Delta Tau 
Delta, Tom Thumb and Jum
bo; Beta Theta Pi, Clowns 
Under the Big Top; Beta SigUniversify Recreation
3-oICH
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
407-09 CRAIG STREET 
SChenley 1-9307
Sure you remember-it was the experiment I said you wouldnt 
Meed to remember or takes notes on.
ma Rho, Audience Under the 
Big Top.
Delta Upsilon, Elephant An
tics; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 
Circus Side Show; Theta Xi, 
Clowns; Pi Kappa Alpha, 
"Hey Rube; Phi Kappa, Jake 
Ringling and his Four Year 
Circus; Alpha Tau Omega, 
Disney Circus Train; Citcom, 
Caged Gorilla.
Sweepstakes
The sweepstakes prelimi
naries will be run at 9:00 a.m. 
on Friday, May 8. The finals 
will take place the next day
at 10:30 a.m., with the bug
gies with the three best time 
competing for the title.
The line up for the heats is 
as follows: Heat 1, KS, DU, 
PK; Heat 2, TDP, ATO, 
Dorms; Heat 3, SN, BTP, 
DTD; Heat 4, SAE, ATO, 
PiKA; Heat 5, DTD, TX, BSR.
Prizes for both the best float 
and winning buggy will be 
presented at the formal dance 
on Saturday night during in
termission.
Tech Undertakes Series Of Forums To Aid Industry
by Bill Sick
Within the past year Carnegie 
Tech has established and pushed 
into high gear a plan to aid indus
try through fundamental research 
in engineering and science. Car
negie is one of the few technical 
schools which have adopted such 
a program. This program has two 
bases: the first is that industrial 
progress depends heavily upon 
fundamental research; the second, 
that Tech is able to provide new 
b? sic knowledge that can be util
ized by industry.
Mutual Aid Program
Behind the plan are several pur
poses and motives: to aid industry 
through fundamental research, to 
point out to industry that Carnegie 
not only is a good undergraduate 
school but is also up-to-date in 
modern research, and to acquire 
continued financial assistance for 
further research, Cooperating com
panies are those which give finan
cial support for research to Car
negie. This plan is a sort of mu
tual aid program where industries 
finance research to be carried on 
at Tech and both Tech and the in
dustries profit from the research.
Two different methods have been 
set up by the school for the dis
persal of basic knpwledge through 
research. The first of these in
cludes a regular and scheduled in
formation service. This service 
provides to cooperating companies 
reports on current research proj
ects underway in E & S and copies 
of doctoral theses in the graduate 
school.
These reports include listings of 
abstracts on engineering and sci
ence subjects and bibliographies of 
material on related subjects.
Conferences Scheduled
A series of conferences or for
ums between the faculty and rep
resentatives of industry have also 
been initiated. These conferences 
are devoted to current research 
being carried on at Tech. They 
provide an opportunity for mem
bers of industry to confer directly 
with the men carrying on the re
search and for necessary exchanges 
between the school and industry.
Within the past two weeks, two 
of these conferences have been 
held. On April 24 and 25, Forg
ing Steels Treatment, Properties 
and Basic Theory was the topic 
undet discussion. This program 
was presented by members of the 
metals research laboratory and 
metallurigical engineering depart
ment with Dr. Cyril Wells, Cecil 
I Continued on page 12] <
LITTLE MAN ON THE CAMPUSBy BIBLER
Nam
Querce 7H6CMHUAL
PC* rHRecMoAnrtA&O, LiCTK.tC\Tf. C^M 4 C-S 
4:5 Dr. usp'rS Y
(im)Z
Wc;
r-V
QUOV,DIS?X>Z
CO BX BUS/
S/VHBN you AC0 RC*AAN 
Cge~t rr f)
IT'S CH&AP&fZ ? <x> BY
BLUE RIPCE UAJBS
SERVING MARYLAND, OHIO, PENNSYLVANIA, 
VIRGINIA AND WEST VIRGINIA FROM
Liberty Ave. at Grant St., Pittsburgh, Pa. CO 1-1800

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, May 6, 1953
@ulyTime will Tkll
, , ------------------
wow! you AC0
DOWN THE RIVER. 
WITH THEM ^
anytime/ <m
HOW CAN THEY TELL SO 
SOON? THAT COXSWAIN 
~7 MAY SWALLOW ^ 
( HIS MEGAPHONE.1
On/yfime w///fe// >ccrf-a green, 
c/ew! And on/y time ivi// fe//.o6ou/a 
c/gareffe! Tie your //me...THIS IS GOINS 
TO BE THE BEST 
CREW WE'VE < 
EVER HAD! )
J9n R 4k
for MILDNESS and 
7 FLAVOR!
THIS YEAR. 
WEOUGHTA 
WIN THE 
REGATTA.1
Everything In Flowers
GIDAS
Your Campus Florist
CORSAGES
-nc1h H4n70h4 9n N97
Free Delivery
MA-SC 1-1300
3719 FORBES ST. OAKLAND
Track Squad Beats Allegheny, 82-48
THERE MUST BE A REASON WHY Camel is 
America's most popular cigarettelead
ing all other brands by billions! Camels 
have the two things smokers want most 
rich, full flavor and cool, cool mildness 
...pack after pack! Try Camels for 30 
days and see how mild, how flavorful, 
how thoroughly enjoyable they are as 
your steady smoke!
l-N/ ./-.I/ Wl-v/ AMl/IW '90 40k 9q17n chd4n7qq7m
K.J. 
Roynold* 
Tob.C*., Wlnrtsa- Satan. 
N. 0.
Tartan Trophies
The TARTAN athlete of the 
year awards will be presented 
to the outstanding varsity and 
intramural athletes on Call 
day, Friday afternoon.
W.NCH AMNCPMI
Dances
2Mueller (T) 3Smith (T). Time
:17.2.
880 yard1Gillies (T) 2Coyle (T)
3Garvin (A). Time1:59.5.
2 Mile 1Carman (T) 2Olds (T) 
3MacDonald (T). Time10:18.3.
120 Yard Low hurdles^1Steffei (A)
2Keddell (T) 3Williams (T). Time 
:14.
4/5 Mile relayTech (Lasker, Gillies, 
Englehart, and Coyle). Time2:40.9.
Discus 1Karcher (T) ' 2Spears 
(A) 3Ocamb (A). Dist.110' 7".
Shot-put1Spears (A) 2DeVries
(T) 3Wengrzyn (T). Dist.40' 8".
Pole Vault1Blumfeld (T) 2Dun
lap (A) 3No entry. Height10' 8". 
High Jump1Buck (A) 2Szewc (T)
3Desko (A). Height5' 10".
Javelin1Ocamt) (A) 2Shaw (A) 
3Bateman (T). Dist.170' 3".
Broad Jump1Zeenner (A) 2Hughmanick (T) 3Setter (A). Distance
20' 3".
Gillies Tops 880 Record; 
Carman9 Bell Win Two Each
By Jim Gore ?
Meeting under perfect weather conditions last Saturday, the thinelads of Carnegie Tech continued their winning ways as the Alleghe
ny track squad suffered an 82-48 setback at the hands of our almost 
unconquerable Tartans. ?------------------------------------------------------------
It was the Plaids third duomeet of the still young season and 
their third straight romp. As usual 
the trackmen all but chased their 
opposition off the field in taking 
firsts in everything but the two 
hurdles races. However, the field 
men came in for their share of 
glory too as they made their best 
showing of the year by piling up 
two firsts, three seconds, and a 
eouple of thirds.
Coupling the totals of both sec
tions of the squad, Tech came out 
with their best win of the three so 
far.
Gillies Sets Record
The star of the afternoon, how
ever, was Mai Gillies, a newcomer 
to the Scot squad. The sophomore 
from Youngstown came through 
with a brilliant effort in the 880 to 
nip a tenth of a second off the old 
record which was set last year by 
Dave Douglas. Gillies also was a 
member of the four-fifths mile re
lay team which was victorious 
over their counterpart from Alle
gheny.
Carman Wins Two
Two other Tartans carried off 
two first place wins during the af
ternoon. Bob Carman, the top disance man for Coach Halfertys 
eharges, again led the field to the 
tape in the mile and two mile 
runs. The Plaid also had a double 
winner in the two shortest events 
with speedster Charlie Bell tak
ing both the 100 and 220 yard 
dashes.
Bill Wills, who has not lost a 440 
yet, not only took that event but 
placed second in the 220 behind 
Bell. Freshman Bud Karcher, foot
ball linebacker, and Jerry Blumfled, were the Tech winners on 
the field side of the picture, cap
turing the discus and pole vault
respectively. Hughmannick, De
Vries, and Szewc were runner-up 
in their respective events, broad 
jump shot-put, and high jump.
Looking back on the three meets 
to date, all circumstances point, to 
another g jaat, possibly undefeat
ed, season for" Coach Halfertys 
high-flying oval and pit men.
SUMMARY 
Mile run1Carman (T) 2McDonald 
<T) 3Keller (A). Time4:31.5.
440 yard1Wills (T) 2Englehart
(T) 3Lasker <T>. Time:51.5.
100 yard1Bell <T1 2Waitz (A)
3Pool (T). Time:10.5.
120 yard high hurdles-1Steffee (A)
AN IMPRESSIVE START ... ANOTHER UNDEFEATED SEASON ?

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 6, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage 
Youll
LOOK
SHARPIn Popular Campus Clothing at The Carnival
!KDC O// WUNOW 
O/NNF AI-OU WUNOW 
.-.*IMN VMAv/OW
H7q O17: C-o 4qCIT
BOOKSTORE
S^portscope w w w
By Frank Fegley, Sports Editor 
The Sports Year in Review
Tartan athletic teams compiled a 33 won18 lost record over 
the past season for a .805 winning percentage. They finished first 
and second twice in Tri-State championship meets, and brought 
home an eastern collegiate championship trophy. On the whole it has 
been a highly successful year for the Plaid.
Footballers Win 4, Lose 3 
The Tartan gridders inaugurated the season on a sour note by 
losing their opener to California State Teachers, 27-21, at Forbes 
Field. However, they came back to grab the next four decisions by 
beating Bethany, 27-12, Johns Hopkins, 40-6, Allegheny, 19-0, and 
Case, 10-0. They suffered a mild upset at the hands of the Prexies 
from Washington and Jefferson, 35-20, and closed the season by bow
ing to the powerful Lehigh squad, 26-6.
Veterans Craig, Stahle, Fuellgraf, Schecter, and Dissen played 
major rolls in upholding Tartan prestige, whereas an influx of 
freshman and sophomore talent, ala Karcher, Eisaman, Miller, and 
Carricato, stood out in spots. Freshman Karcher, twice the recipient 
of the Tartan lineman of the week award, was especially impressive 
as a defensive linebacker.
The four victories and three defeats brought Techs all-time
football log to 164 wins, 171 losses, and 21 ties.
This fall, lack-lustre California State and Bethany elevens have 
been dropped from the Tartan schedule in favor of better drawing 
teams, Westminster and Geneva.
End Tom Craig and tackle Clyde Stahle, both seniors, jointly re
ceived the Joe Pash player of the year award. Both were also
selected to the first string all-district class B team.
Harriers Finish Undefeated 
Coach Guy Halfertys cross country team swept through the 
regular season with six wins and no losses, only to be derailed in 
the Tri-State meet. The Tartans finished in second place, West
minster winning out. Bob Carmen, last seasons Athlete of the 
Year, managed to romp home ahead of the field on most occasions 
although hampered by a bad ankle in mid-season.
Cagers Sport Losing Squad
Mel Cratsleys hoopsters were the only Tech contingent to 
sport a losing record this year, but they had good reasons for 
their showing. Basketball is the only major sport in which Tech 
engages Class A competition. Penn State, Duquesne, and Pitt, 
all of national ranking, appeared on the Tartan card. Further
more, three of last years starting five were missing from the 
lineup, Holtz and Beck via graduation, and Farbacher .due to an - 
ineligibility infraction.
Built around veterans Tommy Craig and Kaye Thompson, 
the Scots won seven while dropping 15. Tech got off to a bad 
start, losing 10 out of their first 12 games; and never were quite 
able to pull out of their tailspin.
Highlights in the campaign were a record smashing victory 
over Indiana State, 91-45, and an upset, 60-53 triumph, over 
rival Washington and Jefferson. In the Indiana game, Craig 
tied mentor Crastleys long standing record of 34 points in one 
game.
Climaxing four years of varsity basketball, Tommy Craig 
was named to the third string Class A all-district team. Craig 
also paced the Tartan scorers with 345 points for a 15.7 average 
per game. Thompson hooped 238 to finish runnerup in scoring.
Swimmers Cop Penn-Ohio Meet
Coach Claude Sofields mermen were the most successful of 
Techs enterprising sportsmen. The aquamen won all 10 regu
lar season contests and went on to capture the Penn-Ohio Col
lege swimming association championship, winning over Case, 
Allegheny, Slippery Rock, Washington and Jefferson, and West
minster. The Tartans took six first places in the match; Dan Guz 
won both the 50 and 100 yard dashes, captain Dick Kramer, 
the 150 yard individual medley, and Grey Duncan, fancy diving, 
while the 300 yard relay team composed of Coulter, Aiken, and 
Kramer, and the 400 yard free style relay team of Guz, Weddel, McCorkle, and Kramer also were victorious.
Volleyball Team Wins Eastern Championship 
Organized only last year, the Tartan volleyball team, under the 
tutelege of Earl Birdy, took to the road and brought back a couple 
of trophies. After a series of warmup skirmishes with state cham
pions, Peabody High, and the Downtown YMCA, the Scots traveled 
to Binghamton, New York, where they won the eastern intercollegiate 
volleyball tournament. Other teams competing in the tourney were 
Oswego State, Cornell, Brockport, Colgate, Wilkes, Scranton, and 
New York State Tech. George Bushey, Kaye Thompson, and Bill 
Boney were selected to the all-east squad.
In the second annual tri-state invitational meet, Carnegie Tech, 
the defending champions, were upended by a surprisingly strong 
University of Pittsburgh sextet, and had to be content with the 
runeer-up trophy.
Tartans Show Well In Spring Sports
Currently, Carnegie Tech has three athletic representatives 
showing unblemished records. The tennis team coached by Frank 
Moses romped over Duquesne, 8-1, and Bethany, 9-0, in its 
first two outings. Guy Halfertys track squad copped easy vic
tories over Grove City, 82-49, and Geneva, 74-57, while Bill 
Rogers golf team decisioned Washington and Jefferson, IIV2- 
6^4 and Geneva, 16^-^, in its initial skirmishes.
Coach Moses was especially impressed with the tennis teams 
early performances, and looks for an unbeaten season.
Meanwhile, Guy Halferty is still striving to develop his 
field men to supplement the fine winners. The tri-state meet 
will be held Saturday, May 16, at Meadville, Pa. .
Highly Competitive Play In IM Sports 
Intramural play continues with ever increasing popularity and 
student participation. In the initial sport on the program, football,
[Continued on page 10]
S
Up and Over! An unidentified TARTAN high jumper hides his 
face from the camera as he begins his roll on an attempt to clear 
the bar.
Tartan Awards To Be Presented To Top Athletes
Coming Events
Tennis
May 6___ Westminster .......Away
May 13............. Pitt'...................Home
Golf
May 6................ Pitt ...................Away
May 12... Grove City .........Away
Track
May 7..............W&J ................Home
May 12..-. Westminster ....Away
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
J. Paul Sheed) Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Te9t
WU SO shed crocodile tears till he had alligator bags under his eyes, because 
he got the gator from his girl. "Im going to hide from you and your horrible 
hair," she sal "until you go gator bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil, America' 
favorite hair tonic. Its non-alcoholic. Contains soothing 
Lanolin. Keeps hair well-groomed from morning till night.
Relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff.
Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Paul slithered down to 
 nearby toilet goods counter for Wildroot Cream-Oil. Now 
hes, swamped with purse-lipped females who want him to 
crocodile their telephone numbers. So water you waiting for?
Buy a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil, or ask for it on 
your hair at any barber shop. Then your social life will stop 
dragon, and youll scale the heights.
Priced low
As Advertifd im 
a<puxc
CC-850-S53
Cent a look ... off points 
considered ... youH take 
City Clubs. Style-wise, 
construction-wise, mopeywis, yovH be smart and 
thrifty in these better 
shoes for men. Come in 
. . . moke es prove 
CBy Club's superiorities.
CrtyOu*
MMI W.N MKN
/ MI/N
Netmen Shut Out Both 
W&J, Bethany, 9-0
The two most coveted athletic 
citations, the varsity and intra
mural athlete of the year awards, 
will be presented to the selected 
recipients on Call Day, this Fri
day.
The following varsity athletes 
have been nominated by their 
coaches to be considered for the 
award: Bob Carman, track and 
cross country; Tom Craig, basket
ball and football; Dick Kramer, 
swimming; Irv Shechter, football; 
Clyde Stahle, football; and Bob 
Wiederhorn, tennis.
A committee consisting of the 
presidents of the Managers Club, 
the chairman of the Intramural 
Board, the director of intramural 
athletics, and the sports editor of 
the Tartan, has been formed to 
nominate the outstanding intra
mural athlete.
In choosing the person for this 
award, each organization that par
ticipated in one of the major 
sports: football, softball, basket
ball, or volleyball, or in three of 
the minor sports, is eligible to 
suggest a man for this award.
% of lit So. Harris Hill Rd., Wdltamsvtllt, N. Y. 
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Last Saturday, Coach 
Moses tennis squad racked up its 
third straight victory by shutting 
out Washington and Jefferson, 9- 
0. The triumph over W. & J. was 
similar to tht 9-0 beating the Tar
tans gave Bethany last Wednes
day.
Bob Weiderhorn beat Knox of 
the Presidents, 6-4, 6-4, while Jim 
Miller set Jenkins down, 6-1, 6-1. 
Don and Tsiang clobbered Soifer 
6-0, 6-1, and Don Dunckley out
played Foutz, 6-1, 6-1. Mahlon 
Saibel defeated Schwartzmir, 6-0, 
6-0, and Gillett wound up the sin
gles by beating Kaufmann, 6-0, 
6-0.
Tomorrow the tennis squad 
travels to New Wilmington to face 
Westminster.
In the doubles, Saibel and 
Glasser teamed up to beat W. & 
J.s Jenkins and Soifer, 6-2, 6-4. 
Gillett and Rowley of Tech set 
down Deeson and Barnett, 6-2, 
6-2, and Rugheimer and Berringer 
beat Godfer and Georgalos, 6-1, 
6-2, to finish up the days play.
The past two matches have 
demonstrated the power Coach 
Moses claimed his team has. 
Neither opposing team has been 
able to win a single set.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, May 6, 1953
Choice of Young America
GbN/O A recent survey made in 274 leading colleges and 
** \! universities shows Chesterfield is the largest seller.
jp v
N o2CVA REGISSE SE
MGrrT I w*** .. y-mmm
High Scoring Games 
Feature Softball Play
By Jack Alexander
Pitching evidently took a turn for the worse this week with 
SN A, ATO A, and the Obelisks running up scores in the 
twenties, while 16 out of a total of 28 games ended with scores in 
the double figures. The unpredictable nature of the pitching in
general has resulted in closed
standings in all the leagues.
In a rundown of the three 
leagues, ATO A and BTP re
main undefeated in the Tartan 
league with ATO holding first 
place by virtue of their 3 wins to 
BTPs 2. The ATO 24-2 victory 
over TX B and BTPs 16-4 game 
against the Demons were among 
the better games of the week.
The Skibo league appears to be 
a veyr evenly matched league 
with PK as the only team which 
has been able to maintain an un
defeated record. SAE, Obelisks, 
DU, and ASME follow closely 
with but one loss apiece. The best 
game of the week was the PK vic
tory over a highly touted SAE 
team 8-7. KSs 2-1 pitchers bat
tle victory over the Obelisks con
trasted sharply with the 22-5 
slugfest which the Obelisks took 
from SN B.
The better teams in the Plaid 
league have yet to meet and thus 
undefeated honors are shared by 
three teams, Sigma Nu A, 3 and 
0; BSR, 2 and 0; and Newman 
Club, 2 and 0. The SN A 25-1 
hitting marathon against the 
Graduates was the highest scoring 
game of the week.
The scores are:
Plaid League
SN A 6, MHOS 4 
SN "A 25, Graduates 1 
Newman Club 10, TDP 7 
BSR 8, -TX A 2 
SN A 7, TDP 2 
Graduates 19, AT 0'B" 3 
Newman Club 10, TX A" 6 
BSR 8, MHOS 1
Tartan League
PTD 11, TX B 7 
ATO A" 7, Faculty 4 
BTP 16, Demons 4 
ATO A" 24, TX "B 1 
ASCE 13, DTD 5 
BTP 10, TX B 3
Faculty 5, PKA 4
Skibo League
Obelisks 22, SN B I 
SAE 16, ASME 14 
PK 9, Citcom 5 
DU 14, KS 7 
PK 8, SAE 7 
ASME 13, SN "B1 3 
PK 5, SN "B 3 
DU 16, Citcom 7 
KS 2, Obelisks 1
phy and Ginnetti, and Lynch and 
Vodenichar,
Table Tennis 
Jim Miller captured the campus 
table tennis championship by de
feating Jim Hunt 21-17, and 21-18. 
In doubles competition Rugheimer 
and Smith, and Miller and Duffus 
i have advanced to the finals.
Sportscope
[Continued from page 9]
Sigma Nu flashed power and poise 
to capture the all school cham
pionship. The pass-patch combina
tion of Jim Holthaus and George 
Bushey was mainly responsible 
for Sigma Nus uphill fight to vic
tory.
Later in the fall, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon fielded a volleyball team 
which proved to be the class of 
the league. The SAEs had to beat 
the runner-up Sekuds three times, 
first in regular league, next for 
league laurels, and then again in 
the final playoffs, to bring home 
the victors crown. Spiker Ed 
Puchy was named as the out
standing player.
Next came the winter, and with 
it, basketball. An independent or
ganization, the Rockets, broke the 
fraternity domination, and came 
through for the title, beating Al
pha Tau Omega in the finals. The 
Rockets then went on to win the 
city championship by turning back 
the Duquesne titlists who previ
ously dumped the representatives 
from the University of Pittsburgh.
Captain Jim Hunt and freshman 
Chet Kolar were co-cited with the 
most valuable player award.
In Womens Athletic Associa
tion basketball play, the Faculty 
Bulldogs emerged as champions, 
while Chi Omega sorority nabbed 
second place.
Soccer completion, which re
cently ended, saw the Obelisks 
winning out over Sigma Nu, 1-0, 
in the final. The Obelisks, com
posed of booters from fraternities
who failed to enter a team, and 
others from independent outfits, 
then went on to nip Pitts intra
mural kingpins, 4-3.
Presently, the softball campaign 
is underway. Twenty-four clubs 
are competing in three evenlybalanced leagues for the school 
buntings. No team as yet has made 
conspicuous showings, dubbing 
them as the team to beat. From 
the looks of things, its anybodys 
ball game.
W.NCH AMNCPMI
Dances
lUl Sports
Handball
The Faculty Bulldogs won the 
Kiltie League with a 5-0 record 
while BSR captured the Piper 
League.
Fuellgraf, Clark, Vodenichar, 
and Lynch advanced to the semi
final in the handball singles tour
nament. In the doubles semi
finals are Fuellgraf and Poe, MurFor Better 
Dry Cleaning..
eEU-*N
W/NPA/
?CampusCleaners
4609 Forbes St.
ROUGH, DRY 
LAUNDRY and 
FINISHED LAUNDRY 
?
12 inch
METAL RULERS 
FREE to All 
C.I.T. Students
Dont you want to try a cigarette 
with a record like this?
Dw OU/ j*MIOF A-CONMWO between Chesterfield and other leading cigarettes h 
a revealing story. Recent chemical analyses give an index of good quality for the 
countrys six leading cigarette brands.
The index of good quality table ^ a ratio of high sugar to low nicotine ^
shows Chesterfield quality highest
. . . 15% higher than its nearest competitor and Chesterfield quality 31% higher than 
the average of the five other leading brands.
T rhnq q9 Hh&7 F9s .n7:hs: 
js4ehqk h0 N7dse4n 40 
vh0dEh#7 . . . much milder 
with an extraordinarily good 
taste and for your pocketbook,' 
Chesterfield is todays best 
cigarette buy.
3m M N759nq C7&7n 37J9n7 
l47 Mp9sq 4 Ahd4n7qq7w
For well over a year a medical 
specialist has been giving a 
group of Chesterfield smokers 
regular examinations 
every two months. He reports 
www no adverse effects t$ 
nose, throat and sinusei 
from smoking Chesterfield*
FOR YOU
Annhdpq I9ii. I:dpqq i l&: O9p4cc9 Ai

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 6, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage II
Three To One 
Opens Saturday 
At Playhouse
The bright musical, Three To 
One, which opens at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse on Saturday 
evening, brings back the highly 
successful revue form to the 
community theater after a two 
year absence.
For years the Pittsburgh Play
house has been famous for its an
nual spring revues, but for the 
past two seasons all the musicals 
have been book shows. In 
Three To One, once more a se
ries of sketches and musical num
bers  unrelated in content  are 
put together to bring the audience 
a laugh-filled, song-filled evening 
in the theater.
Smash Revues
On Saturday evening, Playhouse 
director Frederick Burleigh will 
unveil the Nancy Hamilton-Morgan Lewis musical revue, Three 
To One. Miss Hamilton and Mr. 
Lewis have been responsible for 
three smash revues, One For The 
Money in 1939, Two For The 
Show in 1940, and Three To 
Make Ready in 1946.
Last year' the Hamilton-Lewis 
team took selections from each of 
these three shows and put to
gether a composite revue entitled 
Three To One, which is having 
its Pittsburgh debut at the Play
house. In addition to several 
hilarious sketches, the musical 
score features such fine tunes as 
The Old Soft Shoe, and How 
High The Moon.
Sigma Delta Phi
On Saturday evening Sigma 
Delta Phi is sponsoring a social 
for its members and their 
friends at the Carnegie Un
ion.
Plans are also underway for 
another social sometime in 
June to honor the graduating 
senior members of the frater
nity.Engineers Banquet Huge Success; Lawrence Speaker
Everyone who attended the en
gineers banquet Saturday night 
certainly had a good time. After 
the dinner, group singing was led 
by Steve Mercinizyn, evening 
school graduate of 1947.
Following the singing, the eve
ning school Achievement Award 
was presented to Charles Keller, 
this years Council president. For 
the first time in the history of this 
award, certificates of commenda
tion were presented to the run
ners-up. This years council felt 
that all candidates should be giv
en something for their work since 
all ran a close tie. Those receiv
ing certificates of commendation 
were: George Bogevich, Jim Fleherty, and Jim Miller.
After the presentation of awards 
was completed, Dr. Jones intro
duced the Honorable David Lawr
ence, Mayor of Pittsburgh, who 
spoke on the future of Pittsburgh.
The tables were then removed 
to make room for the floor show. 
Yes, it met with everyones ap
proval.
Following the floor show, the 
door prizes were awarded the 
lucky winners.
W.NCH AMNCPMI
Dances
RENT A TYPEWRITER
i,w
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
TYPEWRITERS
All Hindi u Low uiTBwL
M:7nhc40Ok57nhe7nA9w 
II Wood St. !wDEDDB
Convenient Parkins
Evening Classes
Students following a degree program should schedule one 
of the following subjects in accordance with information on 
pages 24-38 of the 1952-53 bulletin of evening classes:*, C109, 
C110, C401, C402, C501, S231, E201, E202, E571, and E572.
Any student who wishes information or advice concern
ing his plans for the supplementary term should call at the 
office of the Registrar of Evening Classes.
June 8 to August 1, 1953
S212 Trigonometry (8) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. $51.20
5214 Calculus I (8) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. 51.20
5215 Calculus II (8) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. 51.20
5216 Calculus III (8) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. 51.20
5231 Statics (9) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. 57.60
5232 Dynamics (9) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. 57.60
5233 Str. of Materials (9) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. 57.60
S407 General Physics (9) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. 57.60
E201 Surveying (9) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............* 57.60
E202 Surveying (9) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. 57.60
E571 Dray. & Desc. Geom. I (9) M.W.F. 6:30-10:30 ............. 57.60
E572 Draw. & Desc. Geom. II (9) M.W.F. 6:30-10:30 ............. 57.60
C109 English Composition (9) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. 49.50
C110 English Composition (9) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. 49.50
C401 Economics I (9) M.Th. 7:00-10:00 ............. 49.50
C401 Economics II (9) Tu.F. 7:00-10:00 ............. 49.50
C501 Introductory Psychology (9) M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 ............. 49.50
Registration for the supplementary term will be held on 
Monday evening, June 8, between 7:00 and 9:00 in the exhibi
tion room, first floor of the Fine Arts building. Students regis
tered during 1952-53 should present their original registration 
receipt cards.
The schedule of classes goes into effect on Tuesday evening, 
June 9. Subjects with less than ten registrants may be with
drawn. No classes will be held on Saturday, July 4.
All students planning to register for the supplementary 
term should report to the Office of the Registrar during May.
Dalziel McKelway 
Registrar of Evening Classes.
% \
fcCABNEGlik// /)
// jr///Jr!,1 ^ /ill,!# V^---^
Page edited by Evening School Students ot .the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor ............................................................................................................... Victor Sabol
Reporters.............Anna Mae Legosh, Irma Mascaro, Margaret Schaefei^
George Schussler.Newman Club Will Hold Last Meeting May 10
On Sunday, May 10, the evening 
school Newman Club will hold 
their last meeting of the school 
year. At this meeting the officers 
for the 53-54 school year will be 
elected. This years officers wish to 
express their deep appreciation 
for the cooperation of all the 
members in making the club pros
per as it has. All members are 
asked to be on hand for this com
ing important meeting.
Dont forget! Sunday, May 10, 
7:30 p.m. at the Carnegie Union.
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
Veterans
Requisitions for books, sup
plies, and equipment for the 
spring semester 1953 cannot 
be honored by the Book Store 
after May 9, 1953.
Elections
At the special meeting held 
on Sunday, April 25, by Even
ing Student Council, the re
sults were previously report
ed: president, Ray Schwalm; 
vice- president, Ken Pore; 
secretary, Anne Mate Legosh; 
treasurer, Kathy Galligan; so
cial chairman, Ginny Ross.
The Plaid editor will be 
later announced.
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
DU PONT SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 
GRADUATES MEET THE PUBLIC IN
rJechnical Sales
More and more, industry is on the 
lookout for technically trained men 
and science majors who have an in
terest in and aptitude for selling. A 
number of departments at Du Pont 
prefer men with such training for 
sales positions. A technical under
standing of the properties of a sub
stance helps a man do a better selling 
joband offers the customer better 
service.
Because of the diverse applications 
of Du Ponts many products, there 
is a need for sales representatives 
with widely varying technical back
grounds. There are problems involv
ing chemistry anchnany types of engineering^'fa such fields as plastics, 
ceramics, textiles and many others.
Technical men may work in direct 
sales, sales service, or sales develop
ment groups, depending on departEdgar G. Boyce, Ashland State {right), 
helps a customer improve his method of apply
ing silicate adhesive in the manufacture of 
corrugated boxboard.
Ivan R. Smith, B.S. in Ch.E., Kansas State 
University 40 {right), advises the operator of a 
galvanizing machine on the efficient use of a 
Du Pont flux. *
mental organization. In some cases 
technical men handle all phases of 
selling. In others they deal mainly 
with customer problems. Some de
partments also maintain a sales de
velopment section that works on tech
nical problems connected with the 
introduction of a new product or a 
new application for an established 
one.
Here are examples of the kind of 
problems attacked by technical men 
in Du Pont sales groups:
1. Find a more economical way to 
apply sodium silicate used in making 
corrugated paperboard. Du Pont 
men, as in many other instances, 
were able to make substantial sav
ings for the customer.
2. Introduce fabrics of "Orion acryl
ic fiber for we in dust filtration. This
James A. Newman, B. S. in Ch. E., North 
Carolina State40, discusses study of optimum 
settings and conditions for carding nylon sta
ple with Prof. J. F. Bogdan of North Carolina 
States Research Division.
involved evaluation and modifica
tion of filter fabrics in cooperation 
with makers of dust-control equip
ment, and with plant personnel hav
ing serious dust-recovery problems.
3. Reduce the time needed for proc
essing motion-picture film used by 
race tracks. Technical service men 
carried the problem to a research 
group which developed an emulsion 
that could be processed in about onethird the former time.
Technical men interested in sales 
work at Du Pont usually acquire 
needed background in a laboratory 
or manufacturing plant. Depending 
on their interest and abilities, they 
may then move into technical sales 
service, sales development, or direct 
sales.
In any of these fields, the man with 
the right combination of sales ability 
and technical knowledge will find not 
only interesting work but exception
al opportunities for growth in the 
Company.
College graduates with many types of 
technical training find opportunities at 
Du Pont. Write for your copy of "The 
Du Pont Company and the College 
Graduate. Address: E. I. du Pont de 
Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours 
Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
. . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, Informative
See "Cavalcade of America" on Television

---------------------------------------------------

Page 1*CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, May 6, 1953
Forums
[Continued from page 7]
Busby. Dr. M. F. Hawks, and Dr. 
R. Mehl taking part.
On April 30 and May 1, Mod
13 Years Ago 
In The Tartan
The school year was 39-40, and 
the world was on the brink of 
World War 11. While thumming 
through the pages of the Tartan 
for that year, we came across sev
eral things that reflected this 
which hight interest you, as they 
did us.
The average starting salary of
fered to the graduate in the class 
of 1939 was $122. This was an 
increase of $3.00 over the starting 
salary the year before.
* * *
Notre Dame beat Tech in a hard 
fought contest, 7-6. They won on 
a fumble that was picked up in 
mid-air and run 23 yards for a 
touchdown.
* * *
At the Junior Prom, there was 
an almost-riot at the hat-check
ing room after the dance because 
everyone tried to get their coats 
at the same time. The Tartan 
blamed it on the informally for
mal atmosphere.
* * *
Carnegie Tech had a hockey 
team. The season record was four 
victories and nine defeats. Teams 
such as Duquesne, Penn State, 
Case, and others furnished opposi
tion.
i i i
It seems there was a big polit
ical battle raging between two 
opposing parties. The Indepen
dents were trying to unseat the 
Big Three, a syndicate made up 
of the fraternities on campus. On 
April 23, 1950, organized bands 
of Big Three members stole all 
the copies of the Tartan from dis
tribution points and started a riot 
in the bottom of Industries Hall in 
order to stop them from reaching 
the student body.
The material they were trying 
to prevent from reaching the stu
dents was a statement by the In
dependent Party in which proof 
was shown that the Big Three had 
used false ID cards in the last stu
dent election. The riot was finally 
stopped when Dean of Men War
den arrived at the scene.
...banish
ALIIE DOFCMHNS
KEEP ALERT SAFELYI
Your doctor will tell you ...a NoDoz Awakener is 
harmless as an average cup of hot, black coffee. 
Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam...or when mid-afternoon brings on those 
"3-0'clock cobwebs."
You'll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap 
back to normal and keep 
alert SAFELY!
When fatigue is a handicap, take a NoDoz Awakener. Used by millions of busy Americans 
since 1933.
u -i OU UHUoMF u -C OU V-i u tfTt* U*o
ern Statistical Methods for Busi
ness and Industry was the subject 
of another of these conferences. 
Members of the Federal Reserve 
system, Budget Bureau ot the fed
eral government, and professional 
societies in the field of business
and management were primary 
speakers. Dr. G. L. Bach, Dean of 
the School of Industrial Adminis
tration, was chairman of this con
ference concerned with the devel
opment of business through mod
ern statistical methods.
SPRING CARNIVAL
Dances
Fraternities and Sororities
Open an Account and Get
YOUR 10% DISCOUNTS-MvIMCS UMNSoMN/
3606 FORBES STREET
ON.I/ OUNrig ggg
AIRCRAFT OBSilVtKAIRCRAFT OBSERVER
AIRCRAFT OBSERVER
The Brains of the Team
Teamwork can work miracles. In a football game the man 
who sparks these miracles is the quarterback. Hes the man 
who calls*the signals. Theres a man who calls the signals 
for an Air Force flying team, too!
They call him an Aircraft Observer.
Do YOU have what it takes to become an Aircraft Observer?
It isnt easy. Its tough. You have to be a MAN to qualify 
as an Aircraft Observer. But when you are one, brother, 
youre SOMEBODY! The success or failure of a mission in
volving over a million dollars worth of flight equipment 
depends on you.
THE AIRCRAFT OBSERVER IS THE SOMEBODY WHO:
As Bombardment Officer, is number one man on a bombing 
run, the man who controls the plane in the target area! 
As Navigation Officer, is the pilots guiding hand on every 
flight!
As Radar Officer, is master of a new science and operator 
of the device that sees beyond human sight!
As Aircraft Performance Engineer Officer, is the one who 
keeps the plane flying, the man who knows his plane in
side and out, who keeps it fit for the skies and sees that it 
stays there!
If YOU can accept a challenge like this, youll take your 
place beside the bestyoull find your future in the clouds!
TO BE QUALIFIED you must be single, a citizen, between 19 
and 26H years old, have had at least 2 years of college and 
be in tip top physical shape. If this describes you, then 
YOU, too, can qualify. Today!
HERES WHAT YOULL GET! The worlds best training. Good 
food and plenty of it. Uniforms, flight clothes, equipment. 
Medical and dental care. Free insurance. Flight training in 
Uncle Sams greatest aircraft.
** >:
AND THEN, AFTER GRADUATION, youll win your silver 
wings, and earn more than $5000 a year as an Air Force 
Lieutenant. Youll enjoy an adventurous, exciting career 
with a hand-picked crew of real men. Youll be THE BRAINS 
OF THE TEAM, A TRIPLE THREAT MAN ... as a Bombard
ment Officer, as a Navigation Officer, as a Radar Officer, a* 
an Aircraft Performance Engineer.
THE SOONER YOU APPLY, THE SOONER YOU FLY!
-he q17 7q4he) Visit your nearest Air Force Base or Air Force Recruiting Officer. Or write to Director 
of Training, Headquarters, USAF, Washington 25, D.C., Attention: Aviation Cadet Branch. If you are 
in a school that has an Air Force ROTC program, see your Professor of Air Science and Tactics.
New Aircraft Observer Cadet Training Classes Begin Every Two Weeks
*
MNANMrO 
-3W/NP/N .N-HNMl
'k
At K roi TNI lAKOI ICONOMT SIZI
