Spring Carnival Steals Near
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
Volume 52Number 23OF TECHNOLOGY
Wednesday, April 29, 3959
Queen Court Announced
Lex Baker
Kappa Kappa GammaBecky Conrad
Kappa Alpha ThetaPeggy Lengyel
Delta Gamma
Queen To Open 
Reign At Call Day
Lex Baker, Becky Conrad and Peggy Lengyel, one of 
whom will be Techs 1959 Carnival queen, were elected to 
the Spring Carnival court last Friday in an all male student
election. *----------------------------------------------
The 
beknc
name of the queen will not 
known until Call Day, May 1, 
When President John G. Warner 
will crown the queen. The Spring 
Carnival committee has an
nounced that special preparations 
are being made for the coronation 
of this years queen.
Last Fridays elections in which 
630 students voted, was one of the 
b|fit supported elections of its 
kmd in recent years, according to 
A Phi O members who conducted 
the voting.
Court Members
Lex Baker, Kappa Kappa Gam
mas representative is a general 
studies major. Lex is the sweet
heart of Alpha Tau Omega and 
has been a member of the Tartan 
staff.
A member of Kappa Alpha 
j'ijeta, Becky Conrad is a student 
i secretarial studies. Becky is an 
active member of Scotch n Soda 
and Student Congress.
Peggy Lengyel, Delta Gammas 
candidate, is a painting and de
sign major. She has been a mem
ber of Student Congress and the 
Student Artists Guild.
nSoda 
Is Success
Dr. Dale Strict 
fteceives 1959 
Thistle Dedication
At their banquet on Sunday, 
April 26, the Thistle staff an
nounced the dedication of the 
1959 Thistle to Dale E. Strick, co
ordinator of student activities.
Also at the same banquet the 
a n nouncement 
of the 1959-60 
Thistle staff 
were made by 
Dick Clemm, 
retiring editorin-chief. June 
Darling, a soph
omore printing 
major, has been 
chosen to head 
the Thistle in 
the coming 
Other staff officers are:
Dr. Dale 
E. Strick
year.
t*
Scotch n Soda began its week 
of performances last Monday 
night with a gala premiere of 
Set Em Up Again. The festivi
ties began at six with a banquet 
in the Lillian Russel Room of the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse which was 
attended by approximately fifty 
people.
When this group of honored 
guests, alumni, and Scotch n Soda 
members arrived at the gym, they 
were greeted by the Tech pipers, 
Pershing Rifles Drill Team, Scab
bard and Blade Honor Guard, "and 
Cameron Choir, all of which was 
televised over KDKA-TV.
High Point
The high point of the evening 
was the show itself. Set Em Up 
Again, according to comments re
ceived, lived up to predictions 
like the one received from Bob 
Cummings, a Tech alumni, who 
wrote that he knew the show 
would be a hit.
Barbara Hall, a former Scotch 
n Soda member who is now a 
famous theatrical and television 
personality, thought that the show 
was excellent and that Scotch n 
Soda would soon be recognized on 
a national level.
All Tech students who have not 
yet attended this revuesical 
should take advantage of the op
portunity to see a show as out
standing as Set Em Up Again. 
Tickets are still available for the 
remaining performances tonight 
and Thursday.
Margie Spock, managing editor; 
Marge Parker, secretary; Kathy 
Amannito, Pete Fisher, Tom Good, 
Lester Brickman, Leila Moore, 
Dick Laval, Bev Patton, Judy 
Anderson, Noel Farrier, Marianne 
Hadel, Betsy Mass, Jan Madden, 
Fred Beste, Don Beaman, Russ 
McCally, Dick Aust, Ray Istvanick, and Carol Knestrick,
Spring
Steals
1959
4:30
8:30
12:00
7:30
10:00
12:00
1:30
2:30
3:15
9:00
12:00
10:00
12:00
1:00
2:00
9:00
12:00
Student Congress 
Gives Ruling On 
The Panty Raid
The following is the official stu
dent Congress Supreme Court rul
ing involving those arrested dur
ing the panty raid.
The court realizes that the mere 
presence of any mob of Tech 
students engaged in unauthorized 
activities could tend to bring de
rogatory publicity to Carnegie 
of Technology. Howdo not feel that mere 
in a mob constituted 
sufficient guilt to be punishable 
in this case. In addition, students 
have not been given reason prior 
to this case to believe that mere 
presence in such a mob constitute 
guilt.
Definition of Guilt
Since it has become evident 
through this case that a mob of 
Tech students does tend to bring 
derogatory publicity upon Car
negie Institute of Technology, the 
court recommends that in the fu[continued on page 6]
Carnival Schedule
Thursday, April 30
p.m. Midway opens 
p.m. Scotch n Soda 
a.m. Midway closes
Friday, May I
a.m. Buggy design judging 
a.m. Sweepstakes preliminaries 
Noon Midway opens
p.m. Call day..............Flagstaff Hill, gym, if rain
p.m. Faculty egg throw.............Fine Arts Lawn
p.m. Sorority relays...................Fine Arts Lawn
p.m. Jazz concert  informal 
with J. J. Johnson..................................   .gym
a.m. Midway closes
Saturday, May 2 
a.m. Sweepstakes finals 
Noon Midway opens
p.m. Cricket match between Internation Club 
and INSTEP 
p.m. Plank jousting 
p.m. Carnival Ball  formal -
with Stan Kenson.........................................Sym
a.m. Intermissionpresentation of awards 
Midway closes
Notorious Robberies 
Reinacted On Midway
By Vince Freund
Its Spring Steals 1959, and this years carnival booths 
are featuring the most notorious collection of robberies ever 
assembled.
In addition to the fraternity booths, four ridesdodgems, 
tit-a-whirl, ferris wheel, and*-----------------------------------------------------
merry-go-roundand service and 
sorority booths will dot the mid
way.
The sorrority booths, while not 
in competition, will be built ac
cording to the themes chosen by 
the sororities for their Spring 
Carnival queen campaign presen
tations.
The infamous Captain Kidd is 
the theme of Beta Theta Pis 
booth. The Betas will have theitraditional Dunk-a-Beta game 
again this year. A Beta will be 
sitting precariously on the rail of
be to throw a loop over one of 
the clothespins.
The theme of Phi Kappa Theta,
[continued on page 9]
Congress To 
Hold Election
Student government elections 
will be held Tuesdav, May 5, from 
11:30 to 12:30.
The locations of the departCaptain Kidds ship, and the lucky j mental elections will be posted on 
player who tips the ship and campus as well as on the departdunks the Beta will get a prize, j mental bulletin boards. CommutTau Delta Phis booth will give  er Petitions are due in Dr. Stricks 
one a chance to test his marks- ffice by 4:30 on Thursday, April
Institute 
ever, we 
presence
manship. The theme will be Jesse 
James train robbery and the play
er can shoot at Jesse, Frank or 
any of the other members of their 
gang from a position in a railroad 
car.
If a crossbow is more your type 
of weapon, you can try abducting 
Helen of Troy from Kappa Sig
mas booth. She will be kept in a 
strongly guarded temple, but a 
well placed shot will make Helen 
your prisoner and win you a 
prize.
Sigma Nu invites you to reenact 
the famous Brinks Robbery. The 
booth will consist of a maze in 
the form of a three-dimensional 
Mandrian. The object will be to 
find your way through the maze,
30, or should be brought to Joe 
Matis at the Beta Theta Pi house 
by Friday, May 1.
The first combined Student 
Congress meeting will be held on 
Wednesday, May 2, 1959. All rep
resentatives, both new and old 
are to attend for the purpose of 
electing the new officers of Stu
dent Congress.
Third Maurice 
Falk Lecture 
Series Planned
The third presentation in the 
series of Maurice Falk lectures 
planned for the academic year of 
steal the money, and find your j 1958-59 will be presented on May 
way out without being caught by : 5-7, 1959.
the police. If you get out with 
the loot you take home a prize. 
If youre caught, better luck next 
time.
Pi Kappa Alphas theme, Panty 
Raid, will feature a revolving 
j clothesline bristling with clothes
pins. The object of the game will
The lecturer for the series will 
be James Burnham, editor of the 
National Review and former 
professor of philosophy at New 
York University. Students and 
staff members are cordially in
vited to attend the lectures nd 
seminars.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGI ET ART ANWednesday, April 29, 1959
Coed Of L Weei Honoraries
Julie Martin
Freshman P. & D.
Each Coed of the Week will receive a free carton of 
Marlboro cigarettes under a new cooperative arrange
ment between the TARTAN and the campus representa
tive for the Philip Morris Company, Harry Desilates.
Entries for the Coed of the Week Contest should be 
sent to the TARTAN via intraschool mail.
Entry Blank 
Coed of the Week Contest
Name ............
Address .....
Phone .......
Submitted by
Supreme Court Motion 
Defeated In Congress
By Terrie Rudy
The much discussed motion concerning the amendment 
of the Student Congress constitutions provision for Supreme 
Courts jurisdiction was defeated at the Student Congress 
meeting on April 22. There was no recommendation made
future action on1concerning any 
this issue.
At this meeting the slate was 
announced for the 1959-60 officers
Freshman Week
Jan Notopoulos reported that 
during Freshman Week the presi
dents reception night be held on of Student Congress. Terrie Rudy, Monday night while the dorm 
Junior Business Studies major, mixer must be held on Friday 
and Nancy Tull, Sophomore Gen- j night.
eral Studies major, are the candi- S The Activities Committee modates for chairman. Joe Matis, tion that was passed at this meetJunior Mechanical Engineering ing was: The Activities Commitmajor, and Mary Ann Hadel, Jun- tee of Student Congress moves 
ior General Studies major, have that the Dorm Social League be 
been nominated for vice-chair- accepted by Student Congress for 
man. The nominations are still a temporary-recognition period of 
open and may be added to at the one year. 
next Student Congress meeting j White Book
which will be the elections of the The proposed changes in the 
officers. White Book which were passed by
Carnival the Congress to be sent to the Adlxm Pondy of the Spring Car- ; ministration for further action 
nival Committee said that every- are: Be it moved that II-B-4 of 
seems to be going on sched- | the White Book read Fifty min- or Carnival. The INSTEP ute classes begin on the half hour 
its will be asked to partici- and end twenty minutes after the 
pate in a cricket match with the | hour. They should be dismissed 
International Club. Lou stressed | promptly with the signal bells 
the fact that the Saturday "night I Be it moved that from IV- -b
thu
ule
stu
dance is formal.of the White Book, (b) which
Joe Matis reported that all the j reac^S- ^ student must be in good
senior representatives of depart-: academic standing, i.e., must be
ments will receive sheets of in- [ under no College Council action
structions telling them how to run i more serious than WARNING,
the Student Congress elections in j be omitted.
their departments. I Be it moved that to IV-B-3
Give Call To 
Membership
With the one exception of Phi 
Tau Gamma, junior womens hon
orary, the activities honoraries of 
Tech have made their selections 
for the coming year.
A call to membership in these 
honoraries indicates that the in
dividual has shown himself to a 
leader and outstanding worker in 
both the fields of intellectual at
tainment and campus activities.
Mortar Board senior womens 
honorary has called the follow
ing women to membership: 
Mickey Colburn Carole Wolsh, 
Nancy Dereich, Ginna Murphy, 
Gloria Cofsky, Judy Fox, Maryanne Hadle, Margie Spock, Margie 
Snodgrass, Greta Gilmartin, Paddie Fike, Gretchen Beinlich.
Scimitars
Scimitars sophomore mens hon
orary, has elected to member
ship: Alec P. Bouxein, C. Brooks 
Brenneis, David G. Eisenhower, 
William Ellis, Harold P. Erickson, 
Vincent J. Freund, Fred J. Gottemiller, Joe Fuller Grable, George 
M. Logan, John W. Mowery, Ro
bert C. Quain, Richard Sanders, 
James Sharkey, O. C. Simons, Ken 
Sutherland, Thomas J. Vandersalm, Robert E. Walker, and John 
A. Weyer.
Delta Skull, junior mens hon
orary has chosen as its new 
members: John Crecine, Ed Blum, 
John Kohler, Bill Pence, Don 
Haney, John Hood, Gary. Turnquist, Ray Fessler, Phil James, 
Dave Meais, Charlie Fuller.
ODK
Omicron Delta Kappa, senior 
mens honorary, has called the 
following to membership: Ray
Nix, J eremiah Sullivan, Nat 
Teich, Don Beamen, Jan Chaiken, 
Ed MacEwen, Mike Bass, Bob 
Jones and Tim McGuire.
Cwens, sophomore womens 
honorary has tapped Ruth Kibler, 
Nan Elson, Pat Moore, Phyllii Ihrig, Mary Ann Melton, Bonnie 
McIntosh, Hedwig Bates, Ferris 
Buck, Suzanne Burr, Alice Dieckhaus, Sally Ganong, Jean Couchman, Nancy Young, Sandra Horn, 
Dorothea Tsagaris, Carol McKee, 
Dotty Gantos, Naomi Funada, 
Carrie Neerguard, Anne Rishter, 
Jane Thompson, Julie Martin.
Tau Beta Pi
Tau Beta Pi, national engineer
ing honorary has chosen as new 
members: Merill King, Russell
Pierce, Jan Chaiken, John Berg. 
John Friedly, Dick Aust, Bill 
Oldham, Larry Campbell, Nick 
Fiore, Bob Gregory, Ali Ernas, 
Charles Durgin,. Joseph Vilga Dave 
Deigel, Tim McGuire, Alan Rice, 
and Steve Veyo.
Call Day Schedule

Kiltie Band
Welcome and Introduction of Calls and Awards by Bob Clements 
Calls:
Claymore Clan .....................................................Pi Delta Epsilon
Tau Sigma Delta .......................................................Tau Beta Pi
Pi Mu Epsilon ...............................'............................Omicron NifP
Pi Tau Sigma . v...............................................................Sigma Xi
Cameron Choir
Calls
Cwens ............................................................................Scimitars
Phi Tau Gamma ..........................................................Delta Skull
Mortar Board ...........................................Omicron Delta Kappa
Kiltie Band 
Awards:
Student Congress Awards
American Association of University Women Membership Award 
Sigma Alpha Iota Award 
Burton Reist Memorial Award 
Phi Mu Alpha Simphonia Award
Mortar Board Scholarship and Scholastic Recognition Certificate
Pi Delta Epsilon Publication Awards
H&SS Essay Contest
Tartan Sports Awards
Alfred Cerrito Award
Write Contest Awards
Cameron Choir
Crowning of 1959 Queen by Dr. Warner 
Court entertainment by M. E. Davidson 
Official opening of 1959 Spring Carnival
UMOC To Meet 
Carnival Queen 
At Saturday Ball
This Saturday night history will 
be made, as the Ugliest Man On 
Campus and the 1959 Spring Car
nival Queen meet on the same 
stage. Years ago, when UMOC 
was conceived as a parody of the 
various queen elections, no one 
 could have thought that one day 
the counterparts would reign to
gether. This Spring they will.
Voting in UMOC became quite 
heavy by the last day, with one 
candidate giving away pretzels to 
those who cast their votes for him. 
Since voting was unlimited, many 
came back a second and third
time.
Several Canadian pennies aa?3 a 
Dutch 25c piece turned up inline 
balloting..
Also, there were: six pins, two 
safety pins, one shoelace, one 
cigarette (Pall Mall), and an 
empty No Doz box.
APhiO is proud to report the 
total voting and participation this 
year was the biggest in the history 
of the UMOC contest.
All proceeds will be turned over 
to the Campus Chest comrrwjee 
at the dance Saturday night.
A complete tabulation of each 
candidate will be available next 
Friday.
The total vote was approximate
ly 32 thousand.
The award to UM is the Ugly 
Mug (traditional beer(?) mug).
Spring Carnival 
Way 1-3
which reads: Graduation from
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
or from any other institution of 
collegiate rank shall bar a stu
dent from extracurricular activi
ties except intramural athletics at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
unless granted permission the 
words by the Co-ordinator of 
Student Activities. be added.
Closing Hoar 
Be it moved that in IV-G-4-c(1) Three dates for special 
events with a closing hour of 2:30 
a.m. may be scheduled . . .** the 
words Three dates be changed 
to read Homecoming, Spring 
Carnival, and a third date selected 
by Womens Dorm Council may 
be scheduled with a closing hour 
of 2:30 a.m. . . .**
Be it moved that in IV-6-L 
. . each organization may be 
permitted to schedule one closed 
social function per year, such as 
banquets, etc., on an evening other 
than Friday. The word year be 
replaced by semester and Fri
day be followed by "or Satur
day.
Students!!
1 Hour Dry (leaning
2 Hour Shirt Laundry 
Rough Dry Laundry 
Tailoring and Repairing
Campus Cleaner*
4609 Forbes Ave.
(Near Craig Street)
i)

---------------------------------------------------

QuenCoQrtAc
Aprine} Carnivai 1959
Penn 
V/HEeuLJA<t>XilQuenTAMKVtf
Junior Girls
Check preference of either 
white blouses or dark sweat
ers to be worn for next years 
Thistle photographs and re
turn to The Thistle, Carnegie 
Union.
.... White Blouse 
.... Dark Sweater
Name ..........................................
Wednesday, April Z9, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
Working with 25 entries and a limited amount of space on the stands, will accompany the booths to give the Midway a true carniCut this year, Carnival Committee has finally deeided on the val atmosphere,
above booth arrangement. Four rides, in addition to concession
Eighteen Buggies 
Entered In This
g ears Races
Eighteen buggies will vie for 
honors this weekend in Techs 
Spring Steals1959 Sweepstakes. 
Trophies for first, second, and 
third places in time will be 
awarded during the intermission 
of Carnival Ball, along with two 
trophies for design.
The buggy design judging will 
0e held Friday, May 1, at 7:30 
a.m., with Professors Jorowski, 
Yokum, and. Gaylord from Tech, 
and Mr. Zelenka, a commercial 
designer, acting as judges. The 
buggies will be judged on the 
basis of engineering ingenuity, 
soundness of construction, work
manship, safety, and esthetics.
Friday Heats
Six heats will be run in the 
preliminaries Friday morning, 
C;lay 1, beginning at 10 a.m., with 
the finals being held Saturday 
morning, May 2, at the same hour. 
A listing of the heats follows:
1KS, ATO, SAE; 2SAE, PiKA, 
DTD; 3PKT, BSR, TX; 4 
BTP, DU, ATO; 5Dorms, PKT, 
SN; 6BTP, SN, PiKA.
Two rule changes were insti
tuted by this years committee; 
first a safety inspection of the bug
gies will be made during the de
sign judging. According to John 
Kahler, Sweepstakes chairman, a 
check will be run to assure that 
the brake is effective, the wheels 
securely attached, steering mech
anism adequate, and the detach
able buggy party secure enough 
that they wont jar loose during 
the race.
Second Rule
The second rule change was efif^cted in order to prevent com
plications arising from rain. It 
was decided that in case one of 
the days heats is rained out the 
winner will be determined on the 
basis of the times in the prelimi
naries.
REMINGTON. R0LLAMAT1C
ELECTRIC SHAVER Product of Division of Sperry fond Corporation, tridgeport I, Connecticut
Over 40% more men new buy Remington than the second ranking electric skavtr Watch TVs No. I how "Gvflsmofc*" on th CIS TV Network.
Vo l
TARR
Secrets in Remington's exclusive Roller Combs. They
made Remington Americas biggest selling shaver  roll 
skin down, comb whiskers up to reach your Hidden 
Beard: whisker bases below ordinary shaving level.
Now, they adjust, fit any face while 6 diamond-honed 
cutters in the largest live shaving area of all give you 
faster, closer shaves that last hours longer. So get the 
only shaver that adjusts to you all your lifeRemingtons 
Roll-A-Matic Shaver. At your campus Remington dealer, 
or any jewelry, drug, department or appliance store.
Wjidwa
Coe
CAR
RIGHT TO RAISE Roller 
Combs when skin feels 
more tender, and for 
teen-age skin.
UNLIMITED SETTINGS
in between for every 
mans personal shav
ing needs.
Roll-A-Matic shaving obsoletes them all! A single fab
ulous shaver now adjusts to solve every shaving problem 
from your first shave on, all through life  no matter how 
your beard or skin may change.
LEFT TO LOWER Roller 
Combs as beard gets 
tougher, grows longer,- 
and to trim sideburns.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTAN-Wednesday, April 29, 1959
Editorial
Congress Court
After a long and careful deliberation, pre
ceded by what seems to have been an ex
haustive seach into the facts, the Supreme 
Court of Student Congress has announced 
their decision. (See page one.)
The Tartan feels that the court has done a 
excellent job since the uprising on April 1.
Not only have they done what the Pittsburgh 
constabulary did not do, they have also laid 
down in clear terms the consequences of sim
ilar action in the future.
Point The Way
The Tartan is convinced that the decisions 
and penalties reached by the court will be a 
better deterrant to future raids that stem 
action on the part of the administration in 
the case ^ of those arrested in the latest up
rising.
It is hoped that the success of the court 
of Congress in handling this case will point 
the way for a further turning over of stu
dent disciplinary problems to student body 
groups. Such a course of action should be more conducive 
to the betterment of student-administration relations, which 
have been sagging in recent weeks.
LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUSby Dick Bibler
ume52 52  Nbbr 3W22 mb mdo n5r2m Nor5bsa2b yb52,a , 3ym 2WnnNAp
li
! anf
Sitting, Stirring Scotch n Soda 
Meditating Set Em Up Again
By Claire Rosenzweig
Now that Scotch n Sodas Set Em Up Again is about 
to be presented. Here I sit in a cluttered dressing room think
ing of all the odd, wonderful experiences this show has 
brought to the club and its new initiated memberslike 
myself. I stir the glass of scotch A
(and a little soda) in front of me ;
and jthree hours a night rehearsing
egiateCoti
(Cultural 
C^aiendiar
By Barb Jones
A special event free concert is 
scheduled May 9 in the evening at 
the Soldiers and Sailors Memor
ial Hall. One of the foremost 
bands in the worldThe Royal 
Canadian Regimental Band  is 
coming to Pittsburgh, sponsored 
by the Pittsburgh Bicentennial 
Assn, in celebration of Armed 
Forces Day. Free tickets may be 
obtained by sending a stamped, 
self-addressed envelop with card 
containing your name and adwith Juliettas swizzlecheksettle back to contemplate. ' musie, dancing and lines but the
Time, Work j crews worked endlessly. I never
If anything at Carnegie Tech ( knew so many people got involvhas impressed me, it is the spirit e(j one show. It certainly made 
of these Scotch n Soda kids. From me proud to say I was part of 
the start, the whole idea was ex- snS. What other group of kids 
citing: engineers, artists, archi- Coui<5 take a lowly gymnasium dress to Band Concert, Box 333,
techts, dramats, and other as- ; an(j transform it into a real theasorted types sat all hunched cm ter?
the little platform in Thistle Hall j Even the architects took a hand 
and heard Jim Deblasis say, ; an{i turned out a lobby that would 
Listen, fat ladies, we have two J have made Frank Lloyd Wright 
shows to do. No one is indispens- j proud. And the costume crew! 
ible. Lets get to work. Truer j They really faced an onslaught 
words were never spoken! There j for this show. This was what the 
certainly was a show to do and theater calls a heavy show 
costumes galore!
Noise
Say, do you hear that noise?
no one was indispensible.
Fellow Thespians
As I recall the faces that came
to that first meeting and the ones Noise? Its the orchestra rehearsthat Ill see tonight as fellow mg. Here comes the cast into the 
thespians, more than one aspiring dressing room. Aide the Sotch n 
Scotch n Sodite will be missing. Soda, Oh Oh, too late!
The show was work and took j Now that Scotch n Sodas Set 
much timebut the work was fun Em Up Again is about to be pre
work and twas nothing like it. sented, Im sitting in a cluttered 
Not only the cast worked at least I dressing room thinking ....
Congress Completes Its Second Year Of Good Deeds
Pittsburgh 30, Pa.
Mendelssohn Choir
Handels Judal Macamaeus is 
being presented by the Mendels
sohn Choir, consisting of 200 art
ists, and directed by Russel G. 
Wichman, at the Carnegie Music 
Hall Tuesday, May 5.
The drama department is busi
ly rehearsing its May 6 to 15 pro
duction, Lewis Carrolls Alice in 
Wonderland. Tickets are avail
able in the Fine Arts office. 
Student String Orchestra Coneert
On May 3, at 8:30 pjn. in the 
Exhibition Hall of Fine Arts, the 
music department is presenting 
a student string orchestra con
cert, conducted by Goesta Andreason. The program will in
clude: Purcells Chaconne in G 
Minor, Vuvaldis Concerte in D 
Minor, Tansman - Frescobaldis 
Variations on a Theme, and Mo
zarts Divirtemente No. 11 in D 
Major.
On May 11, the YM&WHA is 
presenting its last Antient Con
cert, Cupid and Death, amosque 
by Locke and Gibbons at YM& 
WHA main auditorium.
WHA is presenting Julia Rohamau Lerner, a Mezzo-soprano, a 
Metropolitan Opera audition final
ist at 8:40 p.m.
Free Cigarettes
The author of any Letter to 
the Editor published in the 
Tartan will receive a free 
carton of Marlboro cigarettes. 
This service has been made 
possible through Harry Desiletes, Techs Marlboro repre
sentative. *
Books - Power
Surrounded as we are by stacks of books, 
we tend- to lose respect for them as power
ful tools for the shaping of mens action. 
Books have wielded an immense power for 
good and evil throughout the history of th 
world. A popular misconception exists tha 
boks are ineffective, academic, and entirely 
passive objects. Nothing could be farther 
from the truth.
The effect of Machiavellis The Prince 
was felt for centuries after it was published 
in 1532. Frederick the Great used it to estab
lish Prussian government policy; Adolf Hit
ler is quoted as keeping it at his bedsid^ 
while Mussolini carried a copy with him at all times. It is 
difficult to find a man who had as revolutionary an impact 
on political thought as did Machiavelli.
Starting with Machiavelli one can find virtually scores 
of books that have shaped the thinking and destiny of man
kind. Thomas Paines Common Sense lit the fires of lib
erty in 1776 and caused an immediate impact upon the think
ing of the people rivaled by nothing in the history of liteilDature. It united the people in such a short time that seems 
impossible even in this day of instantaneous communication. 
General Charles Lee, a pre-Paine doubter, said
This declaration came like an explosion of thunder 
upon the members of the Continental Congress. I know 
it has convinced me and most others who had not the 
courage to think what he has said.
Some historians feel that were it not for Common Sense^ 
the Anglo-American differences would have been reconciled 
and the United States would be a part of Britain today.
Literature has even changed mans view of himself. The 
Bible and the Koran give man hope for life after death; 
Darwins Origin of the Specis allowed man to rise above 
the superstitions of his beginnings; Adam Smith showed the 
sense of capitalism in his Wealth of Nations and years 
later Karl Marx showed proof to a smaller group that ^ 
was doomed to destruction. Malthus warned us of excess 
population while William Harvy initiated scientific medicine 
to save it. Frued formulated ideas and terms that have 
effected every field of knowledge, and Einstein presented an 
astonishing and frightening picture of the universe, the 
effects of which are just now being felt.
Indeed only a fool would say that books are passive 
objects whose only use is entertainment, for next in import
ance only to men themselves are the humble, wonderful 
books that instruct them.
Blenhiem.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office Phone, MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor .................................................................................................Jeremiah D. Sullivan
Associate Editor................................................................................ Frank J. Baloh
Bnsiness Manager  ...................... ......................... ...............  Le Adlesberg
News Editor ................................................;...........................*.%**...Jan Notopoulos
Sports Editor ......................................................-...................Chuck Vodvarka
Copy Editor ......... ................................................................ ................... Jack Cashman
Feature EditorRena Siegel, Photography EditorFred Beste, 
Assistant Business ManagerMike Balsam, Advertising Manager-^ 
Miles Holander, SecretaryAudry Dolan, Circulation ManagerJohn
Mowery.
News StaffMike Brunt, Dori Cline, Linda Friedlob, Sally Ganong, Paul Hess, Phil James, Beth Liden, Bill Mohney, Betsy Moss, Bob 
Nowak, Terrie Rudy, Carolyn Saxton, Ira Shapiro, Georgia White, 
Lois Wolfe.
Copy StaffSpence Anderson, Mary Ann Melton, Janis Geisler, 
Jim Whalen.
Second Class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
O

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 9, 195CARNEGIE TAKTANT*gr S
CURTAIN GOING UP!
by George B. Spehin
Cut Em Up Again
The phrase, nothing less than a huge success, will be 
h^rd on the campus for a good while. This refrain repre
sents an accumulation of extraordinary effort on the part of 
this years Scotch n Soda club that resulted in Set Em Up
Again, and for it, Carnegie Tech*-----------------------------------------------------
owes a debt of gratitude.
One of the most notable and 
professional jobs of directing ever 
seen on this campus was accom
plished by senipr director, James 
DeBlasis. Even though the round 
is one of the most difficult thea
trical medias to work in, Mr. DeBMsis has used this difficulty to 
the audiences advantage. The 
blocking was so skillfully direct
ed, one felt he were watching all 
three rings of a three ring circus 
and getting a bang out of all of 
them.
Continuity
Throughout the entire show, he 
has created a sense of continual 
movement, particularly in the 
rising chorus numbers which 
s^ed up the pace that is often 
hampered by two-part dialogue. 
The pictorial quality which Jim 
has achieved, in practicality also 
maintains good sound quality  
the audience can at last hear the 
lyrics of a Scotch n Soda Show,
There is no doubt about it, 
both Phil Rie and Arnie Zaslove 
were cast perfectly. Not only do 
they look the parts, but they have 
a twined an ultimate in contrast
ing characterizations. In turn, 
their characters reflect this style 
constrast. In the Parisian hat 
shop, Ed Frederickson and Ellen 
Travolta really swing, while 
Gretchen Frebretshauser and Jim 
Parker evolve in the pink cloud 
of Phil Ries imagination.
On the technical side of Set 
Em Up Again, the costumes 
stand as a crowning achievement 
ir^ollegiate musicals. In a color
ful swirl of silks and satins, F. 
Anthony Benkos creations have 
happily reenforced the styles of 
the two writers. The cartoon-like 
sets by Don Beaman also deserve 
worthwhile attention as having 
made the same impression. The 
unique lighting by Pete Sargent 
which showed the ultimate in 
contrast of the two writers deJim DeBlasis, senior in the 
drama department, directed Set 
Em Up Afain.
serves great aclaim even in its 
unconventional style.
Theatre Structure 
It is a shame, however, that this 
years sparkling production is 
stiffled by a non-professional 
theatre structure. The hard seats, 
poor acoustics, and overall atmo
sphere, and appearance of the 
mens gymnasium were a serious 
detriment to an otherwise beauti
ful show. If Scotch n Soda is to 
pursue a program that will bring 
in the national recognition it de
serves, it must emerge from the 
womb of the gym into the world 
of a professionally equipped thea
tre. Set Em Up Again, I feel, is 
one of the best possible shows 
that could be produced on a bask
etball court; even though it is 
called a theatre, and then, only 
for publicity purposes. If the 
Scotch n Soda club wishes to 
move ahead, and top the 1959 
production, it must realize and 
solve this perplexing problem.
Carnival Traditions of the 
Past Are Many and Varied
By Pat Mitchell
Many traditions centering around Spring Carnival come 
and go, enjoying only a brief popularity of several years, but 
the tradition of Spring Carnival itself is so much a part of 
campus life that May without Spring Carnival would not 
truly be May. The first Spring*----------------------------------------------------
Carnival was celebrated as Cam
pus Week in 1920 and consisted 
mainly of athletic events, depart
mental exhibitions, concerts and 
a dignified parade across campus.
down the Cathedral of Learning 
and use the lot to build a perma
nent theatre, a girl's buggy race 
was held with baby buggies, the 
. . babbies being 18 years old andIn 1921, the spirit of Campus j one Up wjth bonnets and bottles, changed drastically. ""Week changed drastically. The 
pushmobile races, which had been ! 
held in comparative seriousness \ 
the first year were given a new j 
ruling, that midway in the race 
each . buggy had to stop and 
change the left rear wheel to the i 
right side and vice versa. In 1921, 
according to the Thistle, two or
chestras alternated (at the dance), 
confetti flowed, flappers flapped, 
streamers streamed and a good 
time was had by all.
1922 Carnival
By 1922, Carnival was a real 
blast. The emcee for Call Day 
competed with four trucks, five 
wagons, and a few noisy citizens 
from the Appian Waywonder 
what street that was? A huge 
costume party was held on Satur
day night to which Rudolph Val
entinoTheda Bara type costumes 
were worn. After the dance, a 
slumber party was held in the 
gym for girls living off campus. 
The musical production of the 
year, a comedy written by one of 
the drama students, was censured 
b ythe Thistle for being replete 
with more than the usual amount 
of profanity.
Weather Problems
Nasty Carnival weather was 
first recorded in 1927, by which 
time the Sunday athletic events of 
the first Campus Week had definitly lost ground to hangovers 
and slow recovery as revelry gain
ed in importance. No Carnival 
was held the following year be
cause the alumni wished to ban 
students from Campus Week, 
while the students wished to ban 
the alumni. No Campus Week was 
heldthis was the compromise 
reached.
Carnival returned in a small 
way the next year. Much to 
everyones relief, students were 
not banned from campus that 
week, nor were alumni; Carnival 
gradually gained stature with age 
and hallowed with tradition.
Highlights
Some Carnival highlights singe 
then have been: 1937Gidas ad
vertised corsages for Spring Car
nival $1.00, 1940Glenn Miller
played for the" Saturday night j 
dance, Scotch n Soda bragged, ; 
S n S can soon afford to tear
Cigarette Contest 
Gives Stereo Hi-Fi 
Console As Prize
An Olympic stereo hi-fi console 
valued at $300 is being given as a 
prize in a cigarette contest being 
held from April 25 to May 23.
Any group affiliated with Car
negie Tech may ented. The prize 
will go to the group that can save 
the most empty packs of Marl
boro, Phillip Morris, and Parlia
ment cigarettes. The console is 
being displayed at Woodlawn 
Pharmacy.
Keep On Your 
Toes WltH NOQOZ
When the student body sit* 
in class all day, getting numb 
at both ends, be crazy like 
a fox. Keep on your toes with 
NoDoe. Be alert for late-hour' 
studying and hep on late 
date. Safe as coffee and much 
more convenient.
(Note: In view of Mr. Spelvins accompanying article concerning
Scotch n Soda, we would like to call your attention to the above j
cartoon which appeared in the Tartan April 18, 1950 when the 
Scotch n Soda Club announced that it would now do shows in
gym that were staged previously in Carnegie Hall.)
On Campuswith
MaxSkJman
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek.")
THE MANY LOVES 
OF THORWALD DOCKSTADER
When Tborwald Dockstadersophomore, epicure, and sports
manfirst took up smoking,^he did not simply choose the first 
brand of cigarettes that came to hand. He did what any sopho
more, epicure, and sportsman would do: be sampled several 
brands and then picked the mildest, tastiest, pleasingest of all 
Philip Morris, of corris!
Similarly, when Thorwald took up girls, he did not simply 
select the first one who came along. He sampled. First he took 
out an English literature major named Elizabeth Barrett Grisht, 
a wisp of a girl with luminous eyes and a soul *hat shimmered 
with a pale, unearthly beauty. Trippingly, trippingly, she 
walked with Thorwald upon the beach and sat with him behind 
a windward dune and listened to a sea shell and sighed sweetly 
and took out a little gold pencil and a little morocco note!>ook 
and wrote a little poem:
I will lie upon the shore,
I will be a dreamer.
I will feel the sea once more
Pounding on my femur.
Tliorwalds second date was with a physical education major 
named Peaches Glendower, a broth of a girl with a ready smile 
and a size 18 neck. She took Thorwald down to the cinder track 
where they jogged around 50 times to open the pores. Then they 
played four games of squash, six sets of tennis, 36 holes of golf, 
nine innings of one old cat, six chukkers of lacrosse, and a mile 
and a quarter of leap frog. Then they went ten rounds with eightounce gloves and then they had heaping bowls of bran and whey 
and exchanged a manly handshake and went home to their 
respective whirlpool baths.
2Mi
? Note to Prexy: 
NoDomwiU keep your Faculti*$ alert.
" Vfcirik I'll dirt mtk f/lluPMOKR/  he Mb/
Thorwalds final date was with a golden-haired, creamybrowed, green-eyed, red-lipped, full-calved girl named Totsi 
Sigafoos. Totsi was not majoring in anything. As she often said, 
Gee whillikers, whats college for anyhowto fill your head 
full of icky old facts, or to discover the shining essence that is 
YOU?
Totsi started the evening with Thorwald at a luxurious 
restaurant where she consumed her own weight in Cornish rock 
hen. From there they went to a de luxe movie palace where 
Totsi had popcorn with butter. Then she had a bag of chocolate 
covered raisinsalso with butter. Then they went to a costly 
ballroom and cha-cha'd till dawn, tipping the band every eight 
bars. Then they went to a Chinese restaurant where Totsi, un
able to decipher the large and baffling menu, found a simple 
way out of her dilemma: she ordered one of everything. Then 
Thorwald took her to the womens dorm, boosted her in the 
window, and went downtown to wait for the employment office 
to open.
\\hile waiting, Thorwald thought over all of his girls and 
oame to a sensible decision, i think, he said to himself, that 
I will stick with Philip Morris. I am not rich enough for girls.
Anybody is rich enough for Philip Morrisand for Philip 
Morriss brother cigarette. Hlter-tip Marlboro, the cigarette 
with better ma kinsThe flavors fine, the filter filters, 
the price is right.

---------------------------------------------------

COLLEGE WOMEN
STUDENTS AND GRADUATESDuff's 8-Week Shorthand Course
With the Famous, Easy-to-Learn
for Lecture Notesfor Better Jobs
CLASSES BEGIN 
Day School: June 8, July 6, Aug. 3 
Evening School: 
June 2, June 23, July 14, Aug. 4
For further information telephone Mrs. Alice Cecere, 
ATIantic 1-5386 or send coupon
DUFF'S
BUSINESS INSTITUTE
Clark Building, 717 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 
Air-Conditioned Classrooms
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------k
"j WRITE FOR FREE INFORMATION FOLDER j1 Including: Sample Shorthand Lesson 
I NAME .................................................................................
Ij ADDRESS ....................................................
j MU  DUFFS BUSINESS INSTITUTE
I Clark Bsilding, * 17 Liberty Arc., Pitttbirgk It, F*. N
*Mfe ICARNEGIE TARTANWednesday* April *t, mi
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor............................ ................ ...........  Dennis DeStefano
Circulation Manager  .......... .........  Jim Morrisard
Daniel Smythers Given 
Achievement Award
Daniel J. Smyers received the 1959 evening student 
achievement award from Dr. John C. Warner, President of 
Carnegie Tech, at the evening student banquet, April 25, 1959. 
Mr. Smyers is a candidate for the Bachelor of Science degree 
this June at Carnegie Tech.
Court
Mr. Smyers is employed as
?----------------------------------------------------!a I person of strong character who 
readily accepts responsibility and 
acts with skill and wisdom. He 
has high potential for developing 
into an outstanding engineer. I 
am happy to recommend him for 
the evening student achievement 
award.
The award is based on a stu
dent's scholastic and activity rec
ord, personal traits and charac
teristics, type and responsibility 
of employment, and the period of 
time in which he completed the 
requirements for the degree.
Mr. Smyers is married and 
lives with his wife and son, Dan
iel, at 8657 Wittmer Road, in the 
suburban McKnight section.
[continued from page I] 
ttire a persons part in such a 
mob be considered evidence of 
guilt.
The court feels that where it 
has no evidence which will en
able it to distinguish between 
those members of the mob who 
were mere on-lookers and those 
who were intent on participating 
in a panty raid it cannot ascribe 
more guilt to an individual than 
mere presence deserves. Since the 
mob was continuous from the 
sidewalk on the Morewood Gar
dens side of Morewood Avenue to 
the fraternity side, the court does 
not feel that it can distinguish 
between the guilt of members of 
the mob on the Morewood Gar
dens side of Morewood Avenue and 
those on the fraternity side.
Individual Findings
The Supreme Courts ruling in 
the individual portions of this 
case are as follows :
We feel that the evidence con
cerning six men, indicates no fur
ther guilt than presence as on
lookers in the mob. The court rep
rimands these men for being a part 
of the mob and points out that in 
the future similar actions by these 
or other students will not be 
tolerated by this court.
In the case of the seventh 
the court also reprimands him for 
being a part of the mob. The 
court feels that there is no guilt 
involved in his remarks to the 
police since the evidence that his 
remarks were made sincerely and 
without malice.
Defiance 
In the case of the eighth man 
the court feels that his actions
were somewhat in defiance of tne 
policeman and indicate a slightly 
higher degree of guilt under the 
charge than mere presence in the 
mob. Therefore, the court places 
the defendant on warning to be
gin immediately and last until the 
end of this spring semester, 1959. 
While in warning, an individual 
will be expected to exhibit p 
ticularly exemplary behavior 
deviation from this high standard 
will be dealt with most severely.
The court intends that its de
cision will help deter similar ac
tions from reoccuring in the fu
ture. It adds that its decision was 
not mitigated in any way by the 
inflamatory press attached to the 
case. To repeat, in future cases, 
the court will deal more sever^p: 
with such infractions.
Daniel J. Smyers
Recipient of night school award.
research and development com
pany at Harmarville. A graduate 
of the Pittsburgh Academy, he at
tended Connelley Vocational High 
School before entering the eve
ning division at Carnegie Tech in 
1950. t
Selected from 40 
In selecting Mr. Smyers from 
among the group of 40 candidates 
for the degree of Bachelor of Sci
ence, the award committee was 
impressed by the endorsements of 
his supervisors at Gulf and by the 
faculty at Carnegie Tech. Dr. 
Thomas E. Stelson, head of the 
civil engineering department 
states, I consider him to be a
Catholics Invited 
To Ceremonies
All Catholics on campus are ini vited to attend the eleventh an
nual Marys Day Ceremonies 
sponsored by the Pittsburgh In
tercollegiate Federation of Catho
lic Student Organizations on Fri
day, May 1, on the Mount Mercy 
College Campus.
The ceremonies will begin at 
8:15 in Assumption Hall and will 
end with a candlelight procession 
and benediction by Bishop Wright. 
This is your opportunity to de! monstrate the importance of Mary 
in your student life. Students 
from the Pittsburgh area colleges 
and nurses schools will attend.
Father N e n e will talk of 
j Ethics of Marriage in the 
| Tuesday lectures of May 5 and 
'May 12. Plan to attend these in
teresting 12:30 lectures.
AfcCHIMSt>SS%
rtAcd tENTRcn OnctT FdHNVcnU---
It's what's up front
>. 5. RtVIOLM TOIACCO
EurekaI Winston tastes good ...
like a cigarette should!
You can reproduce the experiment. 
Its easy as 7T. (Yes, you can do it 
in the bathtub.) Assuming that you 
have first visited your friendly tobac
conist, simply light your first Winston 
and smoke it. Reasoning backwards, 
the discovery proceeds as follows: 
first, you will notice a delightful 
flavor, in the class of fresh coffee or 
of bread baking. Obviously, such
flavor cannot come from the filter. 
Therefore, its whats up front that 
counts : Winstons Filter-Blend. The 
tobaccos are selected for flavor and 
mildness, then specially processed for 
filter smoking. This extra step is the 
real difference between Winston and 
all other filter cigarettes. Besides, 
its why Winston is Americas best
selling filter cigarette.

---------------------------------------------------

Sorority (c^ueen 
f-^redentationS'
Wednesday, April 19, ItStCARNEGIE TARTANl*Mrt 1
Upper left: Delia Gamma presenting their skit, The Abduction 
f the Sabine Women, featuring their candidates Peggy Lengyel and 
0jdry Camp. Upper right: The Chi Omega skit Old King Mac,* 
presenting their candidates Bev Scott and Tody Emmert. Middle 
right: Legs Diamond has stolen the Tri Delta candidate Fran Bebic 
during their skit. Lower right: It was flapper time again with the 
Kappa Alpha Theta skit featuring Becky Conrad and Marilyn. Lower 
left: Open Sesame was the clu* for the Greiner kinfolk of Ali 
Baba and the Forty Thieves led by Lex Baker and Barb Krack of 
Kappa Kappa Gamma.
Photos by Shontz

---------------------------------------------------

Page ICARNEGIE TARTANWednesday. April 8, lfSt----------------------- --------------------------  _ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------r
COLUMBIA STEREOPHONIC 
HI-FI SETS
"Big Stereo" styled ,.. 
engineered for the most 
exacting taste.
LIGHT UP AND LIVE IT UP / 3 great cigarettes offer you 627 chances to win! 
So pick your packsave the six wrappersand get going! It*s crossword puzzle fun and real 
smoking pleasure all the way!
ENTER OFTEN HAVE FUN-AND WIN! But think carefully! This puzzle is not as easy as it looks. At 
first the DOWN and ACROSS clues may appear simple. There may appear to be more than one right 
answer. For example, the clue might read: Many a coed will be given her best dates P- -N. Either I 
(PIN) or E (PEN) would seem to fit. But only one answer is apt and logical as decided by the judging staff, 
and therefore correct. Read the rules carefully. ENTER AS OFTEN AS YOU WISH. Good luck!
EMERSON TRANSISTOR 
RADIOS
Packed with power... 
plays 1500 hrs. on 1 set 
of batteries
500 FOURTH PRIZES
RULESPLEASE READ CAREFULLY
1. The College Puzzle Contest is open to college 
students and college faculty members except employees and their immediate families of Liggett & Myers and its advertising agencies.
2. Fill in all missing letters ... print clearly. Use of obsolete, archaic, variant or foreign words prohibited. After you have completed the puzzle, send it along with six empty package wrappers of the same brand from L&M, Chesterfield or Oasis cigarettes (or one reasonable hand-drawn facsimile of a complete package wrapper of any one of the three brands) to: Liggett & Myers, 
P. O. Box 271, New York 46, N. Y. Enter as often as you wish, but be sure to enclose six package wrappers (or a facsimile) with each entry. Illegible entries will not be considered.
3. Entries must be postmarked by midnight, Friday, May 29,1959 and received by midnight, 
Friday, June 5, 1959.
4. Entries will be judged by tlte Bruce-Richards Corporation, an independent judging organization, on the basis of logic and aptness of thought of solutions. In the event of ties, contestants will be required to complete in 25 words or less the following statement: My favorite cigarette is(Chesterfield) (L&M) or (Oasis) because.........Entries will be judged on originality, aptness of thought and interest by the Bruce-Richards Corporation. Duplicate prizes will be awarded in event of final ties. Illegible entries will not be considered. By entering all entrants agree that the decision of the judges shall be final and 
binding.
5. Solutions must be the original work of the contestants submitting them. All entries become the property of Liggett & Myers and none will 
be returned.
$. Winners will be notified by mail as soon as possible after completion of the contest.
7. This contest is subject to all Federal, State 
and local laws and regulations.
j--------------------------HURRY! ENTER NOW! CONTEST CLOSES MAY 29,1959---------------------------1I CLUES ACROSS:
1. These may indicate that a nation is prepared to wage war in the air.1
6. Some college students.10. When at.................. Light up an Oasis.
11. Sinking ship deserter.1
12. Plural pronoun.13. One expects.................discussions in a sociology class.
16. A students careless.................might annoy a short-story instructor.17. Initials of Uruguay and Denmark.18. Germanium (Chem.)
19. Nova Scotia (Abbr.)21. It probably would count when you pick a horse to bet on.22. Sometimes a girl on a date must.................into her pocketbook to helppay the tab.
23. The muscle-builders...............may fascinate a poorly developed man.24. Chemical Engineer (Abbr.)26. Campers will probably be........... by a forest fire.
29. When starting a trip, tourists usually look forward to the first ........31. At home.32. Literate in Arts (Abbr.)33. Familiar for faculty member.35. Associate in Arts (Abbr.)36. One could appear quite harmless at times.37. Reverse the first part of L&M.38. What will soon appear in a bombed-out city.
CLUES DOWN:
1. The beginning and end of pleasure.2. A rural .................can be inviting to a vacationist.3. Second and third letters of OASIS.4. When one is............... packed, it could be exasperating to remembera few articles that should be included.5. It would pay to be careful when glass is.................6. Grounds to relax on with a mild CHESTERFIELD.7. Author.................Ambler.8. District Attorney (Abbr.)9. A.................from Paris should please the average woman.12. An inveterate traveler will.................about distant lands.14....................are hard to study.15. Stone, Bronze and Iron.................20. How Mexicans say, Yes.23. All L&M cigarettes are .................high in smoking pleasure.25. May be a decisive factor in winning a horse race.27. Initials of Oglethorpe, Iona, Rutgers and Emerson.
28. United Nations Organization (Abbr.)30. Golf mound.32. Colloquial for place where the finest tobaccos are tested for L&M.33. Poet Laureate (Abbr.)34. Filter ends.35. What Abner might be called.36. Bachelor of Education degree.
PRINT CLEARLY! ENTER AS OFTEN AS YOU WISH
Mail to Liggett & Myers, P. 0 Box 271, New York 46, New York. Be 
sure to attach six empty package wrappers of the same brand (or 
facsimile) from Chesterfield, L&M, or Oasis cigarettes.
AMmi.
College-----------------------------------------------------------------------
This entry must be postmarked before midnight. May 29, 1959, and 
received at P. 0. Bo 271, New York <6, New York, by midnight, 
June 5, 1959.
O * My* Totaee* C*
2 GRAND PRIZESQuenCor tAeorcduEtN 
TcROdur rFFecEoHHH 
euCCOdur odFEFeVHHH 
UF- cE -orDFreuEdoN
25 SECOND PRIZES:
100 THIRD PRIZES:
COLLEGE PUZZLE 195AprA
FOR STUDENTS AND FACULTY MEMBERS

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 29, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 9
Tri Delta 
Scholarships
Applications are still avail
able in Mr. Swanks office for 
Tri Delta local scholarships 
until M|iy 1, 1959. These
scholarships are open to all 
M full-time women students.
Boothstlapn
four
[continued from page 1] 
Steal into the Future, is a play on 
words. The object of the game 
will be to steal into the future of 
Pittsburgh during its tri centen
nial 100 years from now, steal 
the prize and bring it back to the 
p^ent.
Sigma Alph a Epsilon will go 
back a hundred years to the Civil 
War to present their theme, The 
Great Locomotive Chase. The 
o player will reenact the daring 
theft of a Confederate locomotive 
by a small band of Yankees. Of 
course a prize will go to the suc
cessful locomotive thief.
Beta Sigma Rho will present 
Jack and the Beanstalk as the 
e of their booth. It will have 
games integrated with the 
four stages of the story which 
are: climbing the beanstalk, steal
ing the goose and golden eggs, 
stealing the harp, and chopping 
down the beanstalk.
Robin Hood, one of the most 
famous outlaws of all will be the 
theme of Delta Tau Deltas booth. 
The object of the game will be to 
pick the pockets of the sheifTs
% eta Xi will feature another 
famous outlaw in Ali Babba and 
the Forty Thieves. A general 
Arabic mood will prevail in a 
rolling ball game.
Delta Upsilon will have as they: 
theme the Prince of Hearts, the 
Knave who stole the tarts of 
course. However, it has not been 
revealed how the Prince will do 
this.
gftolen Bases will be the theme 
oi Alpha Tau Omegas booth, and 
its baseball connection implies it 
will be a throwing game.
Communication With Blind Is 
Goal of Psychology Department
The development of an effective method of communica
tion with blind and deaf persons is the goal of a three year 
study announced by Dr. B. von Haller Gilmer, head of the 
department of psychology at Carnegie Tech.
A $22,956 grant from the Na-^------------------------------------------------------------
tional Institute of Neurological 
Diseases and Blindness will pro
vide for investigation into the de
velopment of a technique to create 
a communication channel by 
means of electrical stimulation on 
a portion of skin surface.
Besides this being a basic 
problem in finding out how the 
skin functions as a communica
tions channel, it is a problem in 
possibly helping to solve some of 
the frustrations of thousands of 
deaf-blind persons, their families 
and their friends, Dr. Gilmer 
explained.
Sensitive Organ 
The skin offers us essentially 
the only channel for communicaing with the blind and deaf per
son. We know that the skin, in 
some respects, is a highly devel
oped sense organ. Witness, for ex
ample, how the skin tells us very 
quickly when it comes in contact 
with an irritant. The skin also 
has certain unique qualities which 
differ from the eyes and ears. 
Like the ear, it is always avail
able as a sense channel, and, as a 
sense channel, it certainly is the 
largest facility we have.
The practical possibilities of 
using the skin as a communication 
channel have been demonstrated 
through research at the Univers
ity of Virginia by Professor Frank 
Geldard for the office of naval 
research. He has found that it is 
possible to deliver information 
through the skin of normal peo
ple with a speed and accuracy ex
ceeding that of morse code.
Transmission 
The essential problem is to ef
fect the transmission of these 
eelctrical impulses to the skin 
without causing pain or discom
fort. The studies at Carnegie Tech 
under Dr. Gilmer will endeavor 
to find a workable method.
The utimate solution may be 
reached through design of a radio
like device which could be worn 
or carried on the person and trig
gered by another transmitter de
vice to set up impulses on the skin 
surface.
An interesting and important 
sidelight has been learned while 
on the subject. Some people are 
skin deaf. That is, their skin 
surfaces are not as perceptive as 
another persons, in much the 
same way as vision and color per
ception vary from individual to 
individual.
Dr. Gilmer has been engaged 
in research in this field for the 
past twenty years. One of his 
findings was the discovery of a 
new sense organ in the skin in
volved in receiving vibratory and 
electrical pulses called the glomus 
body.
Pitch Discrimination
According to Dr. Gilmer, 
Something that is not realized 
by the average person is that the 
skin as a communication medium 
has some unique qualities. For 
example, it can make special dis
criminations in some cases as well 
as the eye makes. It can make 
pitch discrimination in some 
respects as well as the eye makes. 
It can make pitch discrimina
tions in some respects as well as 
can the ear.
The Department is an essential 
part of a relatively new graduate 
program in behavioral science re
search at Carnegie which is unique 
in combining experimental and 
industrial psychology with indus
trial administration in dealing 
with both the basic and applied 
problems of human behavior.
Tech Students See 
Lock and Dam At 
New Cumberland
Some 35 members of the ROTC 
contingent at Carnegie Tech, to
gether with 30 students in the 
department of civil engineering, 
made a field trip to the New 
Cumberland, Ohio, lock and dam 
j 55 miles southwest of Pittsburgh 
! on the Ohio River, 
j The trip, on April 23 was sponI sored by the Pittsburgh District 
Engineer and afforded the stu
dents a first hand look at an exj ample of the improvements and
I modernizations that are program
med for the navigation aids on 
the Ohio River and its tribu
taries.
May 1-2
J. J. Johnson 
& Stan Kenton
Tickets  $5.00
On Sale Now!
Enter The 
Tartan 
Coed Contest
The Wocdkwti Pharmacy 
Caters To Smart People
Prescriptions are our business. And our business is different 
from any other business. Here is where our business is different! 
You cant look up the price for that prescription in the news
paper ads, nor can you compare this prescription with the price 
your Aunt Tessie paid for her prescription last month. The 
reason is obvious  each prescription is individually designed 
for a specific condition in an entirely different person. The point 
is that your prescription is not a commodity like a loaf of bread 
or a can of paint. There are no specials on prescriptions for 
heart conditions nor a sale on compounds for high blood pres
sure! And this is rightly so. Nevertheless, sometimes misunder
standings about prescription prices occur. To prevent such situa
tions, we wish you would show us your prescription and ask 
the cost of filling it. Give us a few minutes to check the ingredi
ents and quantities, and we will be pleased to tell you exactly 
how much we must charge. In fact, well both feel better about 
it. Youbecause you will know in advance what the cost will
be. Webecause we will know that you are exercising your 
prerogative of doing business where you want. That proves you 
are smart and intelligent. That is one reason they shop at the 
Woodlawn Pharmacy.
Do You Think for Yourself ? (
THIS TEST WILL GIVE 
YOU A CLUE!*')
1. If your parents exhibited baby pictures of you to a friend, would you be i9 embarrassed? iL9 merely interested in your friends reaction? (c) 
just plain annoyed?
2. You are making a speechand suddenly find you have a large hole in your clothes. Would you (A) excuse yourself and leave? iL9 pretend you didnt know the hole was there and finish the speech? (c) cover up the hole with a handkerchief?, -
3. Would you rather have the characteristics of (a) U.S. Grant? (b) Thomas Edison? (c) J. P. Morgan?
4. You have taken your date to dinner and find'you ' haven't money to tip the waiter as well as takeyour date home. Would you i9 ignore the waiter? 'b) take him aside and tell him youll tip him next.It your date home?
AD
BQ
CD
AD
BD
CD
AD
BD
CD
AD
BD
CD
5. Mathematics is your poorest subject, yet you are fascinated by the idea of being an atomic physicist. Would you i9 try to overcome your difficulties with math? iL9 pick an easier occupation? (c) ask yourself if its physics you like or its glamour?
6. Your roommate is a nice person, but suddenly takes to asserting an ability to foretell the future. Would you i9 notify the authorities? iL9 ignore the whole thing? (c) give him tests to prove to him hes wrong? '
7. Do you believe the maxim Its a long lane that has no turning is i9 a complete non sequitur?iL9 a well-known fact? (c) an allusion to a common phenomenon?.
8. Would you rather have as a birthday present i9 something expensive? (b) something long-testing?(c) something beautiful?
ADBD
CD
AD
BD
CD
AD
BD
CD
$. In choosing a filter cigarette, would you  O ' pick one that (a) claims it filters best? b D (b) merely says it tastes good? (c) cn gives you a thinking mans filter and a emoking mans taste?
If youre the kind of person who thinks for 
yourself . . , you use judgment in your 
choice of cigarettes, as in everything else. 
Men and women who think for themselves 
usually smoke VICEROY. Their reason? 
Best in the world. They know that only 
VICEROY has a thinking mans filter and 
a smoking man's taste.
Dmo you have checked (B) in three out of the 
first four questions, and (Q in four out of 
the last five ... you think for yourself !
 If. Brown A WUIki Tobacco Corp.
The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows
Familiar 
pack or 
crush* 
proof 
box.
ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MANS 
FILTER... A SMOKING MANS TASTE I

---------------------------------------------------

Pge 1#CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April 29, 195
U. S. Instep Program 
Extended Into 1962
The Indian Steel Training and Educational Program 
(IN STEP) has been extended through June 1962, and has 
been expanded to include more steel companies and educa
tional institutions. The announcement came today from Car
negie Institute of Technology, cen-*
tral administrative agency for the j Foundation will continue to pay 
entire piogiam. orn the costs of administration and
The expansion of IN STEP was college instruction. The Internamade possible by an offer of the 
American steel industry, through 
the American Iron and Steel In
stitute, to train 100 Indian engi
neers in each of the next three 
years. The engineers will receive 
technical training in the produc
tion methods of the United States 
steel industry.
Pittsburgh Role
As in the past, the largest per
centage of the engineers will be 
trained in Pittsburgh. In the first 
two years of the program, 114 In
dian engineers, including 41 now 
in training, have been trained in 
the city through the cooperation 
of United States Steel, Jones <5t 
Laughlin, National Steel and Car
negie Institute of Technology. The 
three steel companies have shared 
the responsibility for giving train
ees four days a week of in-plant 
training while Carnegie provided 
one day a week of college instruc
tion.
In the next three years, ap
proximately 122 engineers are 
slated to receive their training in 
Pittsburgh. The next group of 100, 
to arrive in September of this
tional Cooperation Administration 
(I.C.A.) of the United States Gov
ernment previously not involved 
in the program, will now take 
over from the Ford Foundation 
the costs of trainee maintenance 
in the United States. Costs of inplant training will continue to be 
absorbed by the Steel industry. 
Costs of international transporta
tion will be paid by the Indian 
Government.
New Program
The new three year program 
will begin in September of this 
year whep 100 trainees will arrive 
from India. The 44 week program, 
of which 39 will be spent in actual 
in-plant training, will commence 
in Washington, D.C., with a gen
eral orientation to the culture of 
the United States. This will in
clude an introduction to the 
United Steelworkers of America, 
who are cooperating actively with 
N STEP. Further orientation to IN 
STEPs operations will be given 
at Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy, Pittsburgh.
Trainees will then report to 
their assigned steel companies and
year, will receive their in-plant colleges for nine months of traintraining at U. S. Steel and Jones ng jn the mills and college in& Laughlin. The group arriving in 
September, 1960, will spend four 
days a week in the mills of Na
tional, Steel and U. S. Steel, while 
the final group arriving in Sep
tember, 1961, will be divided 
among all three of the steel com
panies.
Ford Grant
Program IN STEP began in 
1957 under a grant from the Ford 
Foundation and is being carried 
out through the cooperation of 
major steel companies and educa
tional institutions throughout the 
country. Thus far 197 Indian en
gineers trained in the United 
States have returned to supervi
sory positions in two new 1,000,000 
ton capacity,steel mills being built 
by the Government of India at 
Durgapur, West Bengal, and 
Rourkela, Orissa. One hundred 
additional men are now in train
ing in the United States.
Under the terms of this exten
sion, it is planned that the Ford
Dr. Guy M. Pound 
Receives Grant To 
Initiate Research
Dr. Guy M. Pound, associate 
professor of metallurgical engine
ering at Carnegie Tech, is one of 
321 scholars and artists to receive 
a 1959 Guggenheim Fellowship 
Award.
This award, together with a 
Fulbright grant, will enable Dr. 
Pound to initiate advanced re
search on metallurgical subjects 
at the University of Sheffield, 
England.
Purpose
The Guggenheim Fellowships 
are granted to persons of the 
highest capacity for scholarly re
search, and to persons of unusual 
and proven creative ability in the 
fine arts. The fellowships are de
signed to assist the recipients to 
advance themselves to higher lev
els of accomplishment in their 
fields through carrying on the stu
dies for which the fellowships are 
awarded.
The Fulbright Award is one of 
the more than 400 grants for lec
turing and research abroad for 
the academic year 1959-60. These 
awards are made under provis
ions of the Fulbright Act using 
funds derived from certain foreign 
currencies or credits owed to or 
owed by the Treasury of the 
United States.
struction in both technical and 
management subjects. During this 
time the trainees will spend four 
days a week in the mill and one 
day a week in the classroom.
Varsity Teams 
Gain Points
By Dick Szuch
The Tech golf team downed 
Wajmesburg in a West Penn Con
ference match to open Carnegie 
Techs Spring sports calendar.
Carnegie Tech opened their sea
son with a two point lead in de
fense of their season with a two 
point lead in defense of their 
West Penn Conference all sports 
title. In second place in West
minister which has a definite ad- | 
vantage on Tech since the Titans 
play baseball while the Tartans 
do not.
Tennis
The tennis team opened with a 
5-4 win at home over Grove City. 
The Tartans were hard pressed 
to beat the Grovers, and the 
match was not decided until the 
last doubles event which Tech 
captured with Stein and Rothenberg defeating Wright and Quindlen 6-4, 6-0.
The Tartans extended their win 
streak to two as they downed St. 
Vincent 7-2 at home on Thursday. 
This brought their record to two 
wins and no losses in West Penn 
tennis play.
Summary
5-7. 6-4, 6-1: Gross (T) defeated McMaSinglesCrisman <T* defeated Bendel,
hon. 6-1; Krygowski (T) defeated Pashe,
6-1; Lang (St. V.) defeated Sutherland. 
6-2. 6-4; Suwan (T> defeated Judge. 6-1, 
6-0; Oehler (T> defeated Bender, 4-6, 6-2. 6-2.
DoublesCrisman and Gross (T) de
feated McMahon and Pashe. 6-3. 6-3;
Lang and Buff one (St. V.> defeated Oehler 
and Volpe, 5-7, 6-4, 7-5.
Is
Last Saturday the horseshoe pitching progressed far enough so 
that the quarter-finals were set to be completed. So far, one quarter
final match has been played.
Flach and Neubauer, PiKAs, bumped off G. Wright and Peshut of 
SAE. Other matches which will be played by this Saturday are: Mar
tin and Larson, Englishmen, will meet an ATO pair, the winner of the 
Davis-Bennett vs. Oehler-DeVaux; Svedberg-Dandgraf, ATO, against 
Horey-Polansky, Englishmen; and Sopkovich-Nowak, ATO, 
Neitthamer-Meiere, ATO. The last couple, Neithamer-Meiere defeat
ed last years champs, Flynn-Wicklander. The semi-finals will be 
played after Spring Carnival.
ARCHITECTS!
Part-time and summer work avail
able with local architecture firm. No 
seniors should apply
Contact Vincent F. Manella
At FR 1-1996 or HA. 1-4700
How Much Does A 
One Carat Diamond Cost?
D,le -A,Answer to this 
question is more complicated 
than just a monetary figure. 
One cannot price a diamond 
by si*e alone. There are over 
20 other factors involved be
sides carat weight. There is 
only one thing all diamonds 
can have in common and that 
is size. Nothing else! ! After 
size, consider Color, Perfec
tion and Cut. There are 7 
colors ranging from top white 
(blue-white) to yellow. There 
are nine degrees of perfec
tion and numerous types of 
flaws. Then remember that 
the polished diamond is man
ufactured and only a properly 
proportioned stone, expertly 
cut, will give the maximum 
brilliance. HOWEVER buying 
a diamond need not be com
plicated.
GLOBE JEWELRY CO. offers 
Tech Students expert guidance* 
in selecting a diamond, as 
well as a selection of the 
finest and latest styles keyed 
to the tailored taste of young 
women. So take advantage of 
the opportunity of doing 
business with a wholesale 
jewelry firm. Be assured you 
will receive excellent value 
and save a considerable 
amount of money.
INQUIRIES INVITEDTERMS EXTENDERGLOBE JEWELRY CO.
1048 FIFTH AYE. CO. 1-7378 PITTSBURGH 19, PA. 
DIAMONDS - WATCHES - JEWELRY
COME ON IN !
Its Your Chevrolet Dealers 2nd Annual
rine5}CCaSPECTACULAR!
SPECTACULAR DEALS NO IT! 
SPECTACULAR SELECTION NOW! 
FAST APPRAISAL AND DELIVERY NOW! 
TRADE AND SAVE NOW!
The happiest part of the Sales Spectacular is the kind 
of car your money buys. Every Chevysedan, sport 
model, wagonshares a lean and lively Slimline look, 
with plenty of room and a ride thats right for the 
roads you drive. Come in and take a close look at 
all of Chevrolets features, right away.
wiU BUl Air 2-Door SUdanunmistakably >9 in UvUry modUrn linU.
come in and pick your favorite Chevy!
Brook wood 4-Door Wagon.
The sporty Impala Convertible
The 1959 Impala Sport Coupe.
Save on this El Camino, too.
The car that's wanted 
for all its worth.
For a "Spring Sales Spectacular deal see your local authorized Chevrolet dealer!

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 29, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 11
Sigma Nu and SAE Dominate 
Intramural Track CompetitionCarnegie Tartan
ActionHarriers
Take
Softball
Chuck Vodvarka  Sports Editor
Harriers Win Two WPC Matches
Jackets
Mile run: 1Wittman, CIT; 2Ham
ilton, CIT; 3Degenhardt, CIT. Time: 
4:54.5.
440-yard run: 1White, W; 2Suggs, 
CIT; 3Hutchinson, CIT. Time: :54.5.
100-yard dash: 1Porter, CIT: 2
White, W; 3Eleshway, W. Time: :10.8.
120-yard high hurdles: 1 Eifler. W;
2Tie between Malesky, CIT, and Van 
Arsdale, W. Time: :18.5.
880-yard run: 1King, CIT; 2Witt
man, CIT; 3Hamilton, CIT. Time: 2:06.8.
220-yard dash: 1-White. W; 2Porter, 
CIT; 3Suggs, CIT. Time: :23.1.
Two mile run: 1Hamilton, CIT; 2 
Degenhardt, CIT; 3Anderson, CIT. Time: 10:49.5.
220-yard low hurdles: 1Suggs. CIT;
2Bums, CIT; 3Malesky, CIT. Time: :27.7.
Mjle relay: CIT (Hamilton, Wittman, 
Suggs, King). Time: a:43.5.
Pole vault: 1Tie between Dent, CIT, 
and Trimble, W. Height: 10' 6".
High jump: 1Tie between Spohn, W. 
and Van Arsdale, W; 3Sharkey, CIT. Height: 5' 6".
Shotput: 1Brechtold. W; 2Lonengan, W; 3Pence, CIT. Distance: 39' 1". 
Javelin: 1Mankey, W; 2Eckley, W;
3Pence, CIT. Distance: 173' 4". 
Discus: 1Mandey, W; 2Noel, W; 3
Lemmer, CIT. Distance: 107' 9".
Broad jump: 1Schmitz, CIT; 2
White, W; 3Moriarty, CIT. Distance: 
18' 11%".
Tote.s: CIT 70/2; Waynesburg 60>4.
for perfect footwork and comfort
Professionally designed by and for top-flight tennis 
players. Featuring a flexible arch for comfort; an 
abrasion-resistant sole that stands up to any playing 
surface; laces to the toe to insure perfect fit, complete 
support. Fully cushioned, heel to toe. About $8.50.
LOOK FOR THE KEDS LABEL
Foolish boythe best way to make a bottle 
of Coke disappear is to drink it! Yes/ 
swallow after swallow, that cold crisp taste is 
80 deeply satisfying... and the lively lift 
is so bright and cheerful the whole day 
seems happier, just like magic. So open 
sesame! Just uncap the bottle and get 
ready for The Pause That Refreshes!
BE REALLY REFRESHED... HAVE A COKE!
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. 
17X2 Center Ave. HI 1-7011
ock**tltr Cento, N Yofk 20, M. V,

---------------------------------------------------

Delts, Phi Kaps, Newman Club 
And SAE Lead In Softball Play
Although the intramural track meet and Mondays rain 
interrupted the softball schedule, nine softball games were 
played last week.
One league, the Yankee, appears to have already chosen
its winner. So far, the Delts have*--------   ------------------------------ 
stomped two top teams in their ^C ........................................... o 
league. Sphon and Young, the Metals ciub .......................... o 3
pitcher, homered for the Delts in
the 12-1 slaughter of the Tau Senator League
Delts. The Delts have no compe- ARNE G EE
tition left in the remainder of: ATQ ....................................... * j
their league schedule. ! SN ........................................ t t
In the same league, BSR romp- Citcom ......................................... 1 . 1
ed over the Metals Club, 9-3. An- j Met Grads .............................. 1 1
dors homered for the Beta Sigs. j TKN ......... ............................ 1 1
The situation is very much PKA   ............ .................     0 1
different, however, in the other Athletic League
two leagues. A glance at the Sen- Team w IQ
ator leagues standings will show I pk ........................................... 2 0
that the league is one big tie. Newman ciub ...................... 2 0
c . gsia ........................................ 1 0
Senator KS 1 aLast week SAE met SN in an j BTP........................................... 0
expected pitchers battle between Falcons 0 1
the school's two best, Bob Reber 1 du ........................................... 0 2
and Jim Swisher. In the second 
inning, Bill Kravnek, SAE catch
er hit a three run homer off 
Swisher to give SAE a 3-0 lead, I 
Charley Nelsons two-run homer 
later raised the lead to 6-0. SAE 
then coasted the rest of the way 
behind Reber to win, 7-2.
ATO, likewise, bumped off an- , 
other undefeated team, Citcom, 
to get back into second place. Tom 
Huff's two homers led ATO to a 
12-3 victory over the independ
ents.
In the only other game in the 
Senator league, a previous loser 
again defeated a winner. The Met 
Grads, led by Bob Rapp, scored 
five runs in the bottom of the 
sixth to give his team a 10-8 win.
The game continued on from this 
point, but darkness prevailed and 
the score of the game was re
verted back to the sixth inning.
Athletic
The Athletic League featured 
much excitement and unexpected 
results in its four games last 
week.
Again, the defending champs,
ICS, lost a ball gamethe hard 
way. Leading 8-1, going into the 
bottom half of the sixth, the Kap
pa Sigs believed, as did all the 
spectators, that they had the game 
in the bag. However, darkness 
came around and the Newman 
Club took the best advantage of 
it to squeeze out 9-8 victory.
Replay
Newman Club later met the 
Falcons for the second time this 
year. The reason for the replay 
was that the two teams had tied 
at 7-7 in their previous match.
This time the two teams again 
played a close game, but the 
Newman Club became the con
querors, 9-7.
Earlier in the week, though, the 
Falcons met BTP. How they can 
managed it no one knows, but 
the Falcons tied the Betas at 5-5.
(This game will be replayed at a 
later date.) This meant that go
ing into their second game with 
the Newman Club, the Falcons 
had two ties to their credit.
The only other game played 
last week was between the Phi 
Kaps and the DUs. For their sec
ond straight game this year, the 
Phi Kaps were badly outhit by 
their opponents, yet team play 
meant victory instead of defeat.
They defeated DU, 13-4 on six 
hits; nevertheless, at this stage in 
the schedule, they look like the 
team to beat in their league.
Leaders
The twelve top hitters for all 
three leagues and the standings 
are as follows:Player AB H HE Av*.
1. Gray .................3 3 1 1.000
1. Fager ..............3 3 0 1.000
3. Belsler ............7 6 0 .857
4. Ogradski .........5 4 0 .800
5. Lucas ...............8 5 0 .625
6. Jones ................5 3 1 .600
6. Greico ..............5 3 0 .600
6. Wagner ...........5 3 0 .600
9. Hodge ...............7 4 1 -.571
9. LindufT .............7 4 0 .571
11. Nelson ..............9 5 2 .556
11 Polansky .........9 5 0 .556
Yankee League
Team W LDTD ........................................ 2 0
Vets ........................................... 1 0TDP ....................................... 1 1Englishmen ...................... 1 1
FOR COMPLETE 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First OAKLAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE, PAINT.
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923Harry Valler throws a ringer in IM horseshoe pitch.
English: SLOW-WITTED BASEBALL PLAYER
/ ThinkHsh translation: The guys who patrol the fences on this mans
A? team include a slugger (cloutfielder), a braggart (.shoutfidder) and a
^ sorehead (poutfidder) reading from left field to right. The clod in
questiona loutfidderrarely breaks into the line-up. He thinks 
RBI is the second line of an eye chart. But hes no doubtfidder when 
it comes to smoking. He goes all out for the honest taste of fine 
/Ov tobacco ... the unforgettable taste of a Lucky Strike!
HOWTO
MAKE *25
Take a wordinstitution, for example. ' 
With it, you can make an aquarium 
(Jinstitution), a bowling alley (pinstitution), a fireworks factory (dinstitution) 
or a saloon (ginstitution). Thats Thinklishand its that easy! Were paying 
$25 for the Thinklish words judged best 
your checks itching to go! Send your 
words to Lucky Strike, Box 67A, Mt. 
Vernon, N.Y. Enclose your name, ad
dress, university and class.
Get the genuine article
Get the honest taste
of a LUCKY STRIKE
onaoisi: STINGING VEIN Fngfish: COED BULL SESSION
DANCING
ThtfiJelish; BULLERiNA ,
tcoiieiA (Near
Page 12CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April t$. 195
