VOL. 46No. 8 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., NOV. 11, 1952
Campus Chest Drive 
Begins November 11
Volunteer Giving Is Chief Means, 
Student Goal Established At $1000
This year the Campus Chest drive will run from November
11 through November 13 with a student goal of $1000. The pur
pose of the campaign is the unification in one drive of the solici
tations of those organizations which previously conducted individual 
 ?drives. All of the organizations
Parents9 Teachers To Visit 
Tech s Open House Wed.
Carnegie Tech will hold open house on the evening of Nov. 12 
from 7:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. At that time high school tecahers, 
administrators, interested students and their parents will get an op
portunity to consult with faculty members about career and educa
tional opportunities. They will^ also br able to see the Carnegie 
laboratories and other facilities in operation and observe student life on campus.
A program of exhibits has been planned which will be of interest 
to students of all departments of Tech. Featured among these displays will be an open rehearsal
of the drama departments Golden Boy between 8:00 p.m. and 
8:30 p.m. in the Carnegie theater, a demonstration of the new cloth- testing fademeter in Margaret Morrison college, an electrical engineering demonstration showing the Oakland district on radar 
as it would appear from a low flying plane, and a mechanical engineering wind tunnel exhibi
tion. Public inspection tours of the new SIA building will also be 
held.The evening has been planned by the administration to be informative,. enjoyable, and worth
while. Get acquainted with the 
other departments at Tech and bring along- outsiders.
Water Weir
Civil Attraction
Pitt Raid Expensive; 
Hard To Take Action
The recent exchange of unofficial post-victory visits between 
Carnegie Tech and the University of Pittsburgh has brought about 
_ an effort on the part of the two schools, along with Duquesne andszsiia*9 mm PCW, to try to reduce future extra-curricular rallies to a minimum.
Study Courses 
Help Frosh
The How to Study and How 
to Read courses are moving into 
their second week, with members 
of the bureau of measurement and 
guidance leading the meetings. Dr. 
Needham, leader of the How to 
Read* groups, says that students 
may still enter this week so 
week, even if they did not attend those last week; but that they 
had better enter this week so they will not miss the reading exercises which are performed in 
the class.
Dr. Morgan, leader of the How 
to Study groups, says that stu
dents are invited to attend the discussion groups no matter how many they have missed, though 
steady attendance at these groups is more beneficial.
Both these classes are open to 
freshmen and those who feel that 
their factors would be improved by better study habits. Anyone interested is invited to attend the How to Read classes at 1:30 p.m. any weekday afternoon in AH 
336B, or the How to Study class
es at the same time in AH 331.
Citcom Clan
The Carnegie Union will be 
filled with commuters on Fri
day, November 14, when Cit
com clan has a mixer. The 
party will begin at 8:30 p.m.
represented in the drive depend upon volunteer giving as the chief means of carrying out life-saving programs to thousands and even millions of handicapped, poor, and distressed people each year.
Separate Drive This year for the first time the student drive is entirely separate from the faculty drive. A successful drive can be accomplished only if each student does his share.Allocation of the funds raised will be as follows:
Community Chest................40%
Red Cross................................ 6%
Salvation Army.................... 5%
World Student Service
Fund .....................................11%
Cancer Fund ..........................10%
Infantile Paralysis Fund. .16%
Heart Fund .......................... 7%
Childrens Hospital .......... 5%The Community Chest represents 92 individual charitable or- #ganizations serving Allegheny 
[Continued on page 3]
Man-Made Lightning
Former EE dept, display
Plant Visits 
Done By SAM
Mr. Carl Coler, formerly with 
ECA in Korea, gave a talk to the Tech chapter of the Society for the Advancement of Management on Wednesday, October 29, at the Theta Xi house. He spoke and showed slides on the ECAs work of trying to re-establish business in Korea.
X spokesman for SAM said that he found Mr. Coler very interesting on economic problems, and especially on the devastation caused by the current war. All in all, he said, it was a very good talk.Mr. Coler is now a member of Methods Engineering Council, a Pittsburgh management consulting firm.
Techs Society for the Advancement of Management will soon sponsor a tour of the H. J. Heinz Co.s plant on Pittsburghs north side. The tour, tentatively scheduled for November 18, will be the second in this years series of SAM trips to various local plants.
Last month the society visited the Mine Safety Appliance company in Braddock, Pa. The mem
bers saw how the company did its job, and afterward had a conference with the management to ask questions.
SAM president Don Hand said that the guides on the tours are usually industrial engineers, since 
they are most able to answer the questions asked by management students.
President Hand also said that 
the Pittsburgh chapter of SAM 
(not the Tech chapter) if making 
plans to visit a steel mill. Mem
bers of the Tech chapter wiH be 
invited to attend.
The main objective to these pil-' 
grimages is the damage done dur
ing the celebrating. Educators at 
the various schools also bemoan 
the disruption of classes, but this 
appears to be of little concern to 
the student bodies.
Damage High 
Total damage from Pitts Notre 
Dame excursion through Pitts
burgh ran to over a thousand 
dollars. The Carnegie-Case post 
game fracas cost a total of some 
$400. In each case the expense is 
borne in part by the student gov
ernments of the schools to blame. 
The legislators are therefore disturbed over the situation.
Representatives of the four Pittsburgh colleges met Thursday, October 30, on the invitation of Dean T. W. Biddle of Pitt, to discuss the problem. Representing CIT were Dean Ben E. David, Dick Franklin, Bill Stewart, Nancy Rausch, and Dick Durstine.
Nothing Concrete 
The two hour discussion produced nothing more concrete than a better understanding of the situation and the feelings of all those involved. It was agreed that it would be difficult to take action against such spontaneous upris[Continued on page 2]
Current Events
Quaker peace proposals will 
be the topic of discussion on 
following the filming of a 
movie The Time for Great
ness at the current events 
discussion group meeting. The 
movie will be shown at 7:30 
p.m. at the Carnegie Union on 
November 17. The discussion 
will be lead by Dr. Morgan. 
Students and faculty are in
vited to see this outstanding 
movie.
Council Discusses Many Topics 
Enlarged By Nine Members
Combining the last three Student Council meetings, the more 
important topics which have been discussed include WRCTs loan, 
spontaneous pep rallies, the campus chest, enlargement of Council, 
and smoking in classes.
Three weeks ago a motion was 
made to loan $500 to the campus
radio station for technical im
provements. The motion was 
tabled until more facts could be 
presented concerning the use of 
the money. Last week, after re
ports from WRCT and Student 
Councils budget chairman, the 
loan was approved. The station 
will pay off the loan l?y May 1, 
1953, through commercial adver
tising.
It was brought out in Council 
that the attack on Pitt after the 
homecoming game, indirectly cost 
the students $400.
Student Council will be- en
larged by nine members. One 
member from each of nine spec
ified organizations on campus will 
be given a vote. These represent
atives will act as members for the 
period of one term of Council.
A resolution was passed which 
states Council favors smoking in 
classes at the discretion of the 
instructor. The method now ip 
use states that the deans of the various coileges decide whether smoking is permissable.
The Campus Chest drive was postponed from this week until 
next week because of mid-semes
ter exams. The drive will take 
place on Tuesday, Wednesday, and 
Thursday of next week.
Dr. Mehl Awarded 
Recognition Medal 
By Metals Society
Metallurgical Dept. Head 
Honored For Research 
During October Convention
Dr. Robert F. Mehl, director of 
the metals research laboratory and 
head of the metallurgical engineer
ing department at Carnegie is the 
1952 recipient of the American So
ciety for Metals Gold Medal award.
The medal was established in 
1943 to recognize outstanding 
metallurgical knowledge and ex
ceptional ability in the diagnosis 
and solution of diversified metal
lurgical problems. It was pre
sented to Dr. Mehl during the an
nual banquet of the ASM in Phila
delphia on October 23.
Dr. Mehl, one of the countrys 
top authorities on metallurgy, has 
made outstanding contributions to 
both teaching and research in his 
field. He is the winner of the John 
Scott Medal, Howe Medal, James 
Douglas Gold Medal and the 
Sauveur Achievement Awrard. He 
is also the recipient of honorary 
degrees from Franklin and Marshall College, Sao Paulo University, Brazil, and Stevens Institute 
of Technology.
GERALD PRIESTLEY
British authority on interna
tional and human relations and 
vice-chairman of the UN Speak
ers Research committee featured 
on todays chapel program.
Honorary Colonel 
To Be Chosen 
At Military Ball
Lee Kelton is featured for the Military Ball, November 22, in the 
Mens gym. This annual affair is 
sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, an honorary organization for advanced ROTC students.
Highlighting the evening will be 
the appointment of an honorary 
colonel and two lieutenant colo
nels who will be chosen from a 
group of Tech coeds representing 
the seven sororities, Citcom clan, 
and each tower of Morewood Gardens. In an election prior to the 
dance, the ROTC members will 
choose the Queen from posted photographs.
The Military Ball is an all
school event, admission is $2.50 
per couple with no flowers. The 
attire is formal: tux or uniform. 
Tickets will be available in Skit>o during the week preceding the 
dance, and from ROTC students.
Reporters
There are still many open
ings on the Tartan staff for 
typists and reporters. At the 
beginning of the year, many 
freshmen turned in their 
names, but have not reported 
to the office on Friday nights.
The next meeting will be 
this Friday at 8:00 p.m. in the 
Tartan offices on the third 
floor of the Carnegie Union.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 11, 1952
APO Again Sponsors Annual 
Ugly Man Competition
In conjunction with the current Campus Chest drive, Alpha 
Phi Omega, national service fraternity, will once again this year 
run a campus Ugly Man contest.
The winner will be proclaimed UMOC (ugly man on campus)
and will be awarded a cup. The^----  -   
name of the winner will be announced in next weeks Tartan.
Voting will take place in Skibo 
from 11:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Tues
day through Friday (November
11 to 14).
Faculty members are not eli
gible this year.
Votes will be in the form of 
cash contributions, and will be 
counted as follows:
Pennyone vote 
Nickelsix votes 
Dime13 votes 
Quarter33 votes 
Half dollar67 votes 
One dollar150 votes 
Two dollars310 votes 
Five dollars800 votes 
Ten dollars1700 votes. 
Twenty dollars3500 votes 
And so on, ad infinitum.
This is recommended as an 
ideal chance to stuff ballot boxes 
for all those interested in doing 
so.
Politics
The Federal Government 
class wishes to thank the CIT 
students who attended the po
litical forum and participated 
in the mock election. The re
sults were:
Eisenhower ......................170
Stevenson......................... 70
Halliman ......................... 10
Socialist ................................... 1
University Recreation
ifaResr
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWUNG SHOES
407-09 CRAIG STREET 
SChenley 1-9307
sales TVDCUIDITITDC 0ffice
Service | c  hGc 111 I hR Ef Supplies
NEW PORTABLES for RENT
WEEK  MONTH  TERM 
Free Delivery and Pick-Up Service
AEfsh LD PISTY4
0RReh7 f--e9h L09EeshC 9fn
3806 Forbes Street
Rallies
[Continued from page 1] 
ings in the future, but the hope 
was expressed that, with the 
damage made known to the stu
dent bodies of the institutions in
volved, events of similar serious
ness will not occur in the near fu
ture.
The presidents of the Pitt and 
Tech student governments plan to 
meet later concerning this mat
ter, but no such action has been 
taken as yet.
Let's Go OVER THE TOP**
 for 
COMMUNITY CHEST 
SALVATION ARMY 
W. S. S. F.
INFANTILE PARALYSIS 
HEART HOUSE 
CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL 
CANCER FUND
Do Your Best for...
lEh90LADC 9EhCl
I
liti
I m
!
Pill 1
 v. 
I
? 1 I
o o o
VOL..L 
4L6NoL.8T
OUR 
SILVERTONGUED
UES,UET
will Hell
AND 
WHATTA
1S95S2luTn 
terGG
SWEEP "THE 
CAMPUS!
AND I 
PROMISE..
MAYBE 
HE'LL WIND 
UP GOVERNOR. 
OF THE
i,S,eT
c
m]
VI
^SIOENT.*07'7&
II tell obout  ifaReR src 
Only heGGr W wi tell fhEAh f eg 
Ad only *" w"
T i i.ovv en)oya^ . tue test of 
how rnld . week attet weekpack a1 ? 
d
HOW CAN 
THEY TELL 
SO SOON? 
HE HASN'T 
EVEN GOT A 
PLATFORM TO 
STAND ON!
v 1gIsC h 
OTH BR^OS
by bHUo *
dgarees
per yer *
There must be,reason whym
m? /'
to*
m

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 11* 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
Eisenhower Faced With Many 
Difficulties As New President
by Professor Thomas T. Heide
By the time this article appears, post-mortems of every descrip
tion will have been held concerning the causes of last weeks elec
tion results which gave Gen Eisenhower a considerably more resound
ing popular, as well as electoral, majority than most observers had 
bargained for. It seems pretty clear that Eisenhowers fame and past 
achievements proved to be magnetic attractions for many voters who 
backed him without giving similar support to other names on the 
Republican ticket. Justification for such a conclusion can be seen 
in the quite close distribution of seats in the Senate (Republican, 
49, of whome one is independent; Democratic, 47) and in the House, 
where the Republicans at best can be said to have only a bare 
majority.
Significant elements in the election results were (1) the tre 
mendous turnout at the polls, (2) the unprecedented Republican 
gains in the solid south, and (3) the indication that a sizable 
percentage of the labor and so-called independent vote went to 
Eisenhpwer. Probably not only the General' personal drawing power, 
but a natural reaction to 20 years of a single administration, com
bined to produce such a generally impressive victory.
Faces Many Problems
But far more important than the ins and outs of the election 
are the problems which the new President will face, and the pros
pects for their solution. The problems, obviously, are many: it is 
undoubtedly fortunate that General Eisenhower, although his poli
tical training is admittedly weak, shows not only a broad under
standing of world issues, but has frankly promised to bring the best 
brains available to bear upon the difficulties which will face his 
administration. Moreover, Eisenhower is noted for his skill in bring
ing conflicting points of view together into a workable compromise.
In foreign policy, Korea is Eisenhowers first concern. His pre
inaugural trip to Koreasuggested originally by a Life writer at
tached to his speech writing staffwill be to collect information con
cerning the situation and how best to end the conflict. It is quite 
clear that the General will not support appeasement in Korea, nor 
will he want to see enlargement of the conflict into a world war. 
To all intents and purposes, then, his policy will be the same as 
American policy at present. It will be a tough job to make a peace 
in Korea upon terms satisfactory to us; if Eisenhower succeeds it 
will be a notable victory.
Continued Aid
So far as Europe and the United Nations are concerned, the 
Republican foreign policy platform plan advocated international co
operation and aid financial and militaryto nations outside the So
viet sphere. If Eisenhowers administration can receive any co-opera
tion from Congresswhich is always debatableit may be assumed 
that American support of the United Nations, of arms aid to Europe, 
and of Point Four aid to many Asian, African, and South American 
nations will be continued.
Domestically, of course, Eisenhower will be faced with a 
multitude of difficulties, of which one will certainly be labor. 
The controversial Taft-Hartley act will probably remain in exist
ence. In economic matters, the nation will look to him to curb 
inflation and taxes, and to maintain prosperityherculean tasks 
indeed. In the fields of social security and legislation, what has 
already been achieved will no doubt be continued and possibly 
expanded, but it is doubtful if a new program such as socialized 
medicine will be encouraged.
To his search for solutions to these problems, Eisenhower brings, 
fortunately, a desire to do the best possible as dictated by the needs 
of the situation. Whether or not the legislative branch of the govern
ment will always aid him to this respect, remains to be seen. At 
least one immediately pleasing sign is the willingness with which 
President Truman has volunteered to initiate Eisenhower and his 
advisors into foreign and domestic problems. This policy of coopera
tion should result in a better informed new administration; the 
General will certainly need all the aid he can receive before he as
sumes the staggering burdens of the Presidency.
AUXIER BEAUTY SALON
3714^4 Forbes St. SC 1-3826
Permanents and 
Tinting Specialty
LETS GO TO
ISALYS
LyG1 C31to 
iyb eut 9tO 9Wwto 
GWwgy1to 
locd R*wu3to
Three Stores in. th College 
District
5808 Forbes St, Squirrel HH1 
3714 Forbes St., Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
WORLD'S PORTABLE 
SPEED CHAMPION*
The easiest-writing 
portable ever built I
*
WdG AW"HGt 3WGgB E^t WccyuyG aWGgp6 
AW"HGt CFttg 93Ww^FGFw.3GF "c3W, 
ew "3t u*tw" aWGgN^ GOby,.n
Lrr DP IrSr 
Terms as low as $|.25 Weekly
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue AT 1-8320 SUPPLIES  
REPAIRS  RENTALS
By The Three Blind Mice 
ENLIGHTENED . . and at theheight of the struggle, Professor Sochatoff was sayingjust then the lights went out and the sound of sirens came nearer and nearer. Canterbury club was in utter darkness in the midst of a Sunday
Chest
[Continued from page I] 
county. These include organizations such as the Boy Scouts, hospitals, and other agencies which promote community service.
The World Student Service fund is an international student-to-stu- dent aid program. Students and professors in the war-devastated countries in Europe and southeast Asia will receive aid from fellow students and professors in 19 countries through this fund. The work of the other recipients of the Campus Chest are familiar to all of the students.
evening book review by the professor when a fuse blew. The fire engines were traveling elsewhere, but they certainly picked the right 
moment.UNCLE EZRA SEZ . . . Well, 
shine ma boots and call me Napoleon, them thar military fellers are cooking up another gitto- gether come next snow. They calls it the Military ball and its cornin bout the tail of November.WANTED: GIRLS . . . Architects have put in a request for more girls to study said subject. It seems that lately the power equipment has been failing in Fine 
Arts and . . .DOUBLE VICTORY . . . Not only did Tech win the game at Alleghenythey also acquired two goal posts. After the game a few noble fans scurried onto the field to take one goal post but were met by officers of the law. Seeing this, another horde of CIT students 
headed for the opposite goal which was defended by Allegheny faithfuls. The boys in blue hurried to the scene of action leaving the first goal post quite naked and undefended. Never ones to miss an opportunity such as this, the Kiltie band crept quietly onto the field and secured for their very own the
abandoned goal post without resistance. Moralalways watch the 
Kiltie band.
Fraternities and Sororities
fFtw 0w 0uuW*w" wg rt" 
$fD -DRR 7eC9fDsl
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 FORBES ST.
Lh7e9f
finest JMedko e*r made. Bfufuiut* Burgundy Finish '
Lh7e9f <n -n _n -*2 ay"3 sha s$Rfs ieln huG*oyMtU r*w"ttg iy"tIAWWc e fgWGtooU lo"tGtoo e 9*o3yWw D"t e 
Lh7e9f Lh70ReClI.NnYV
When filter turns brownin Medico 
Pipes or Cigarette Holdersthrow 
it away, with nico
tine, juices, flakes, 
tars it has trapped.
Insert a fresh filter i 
for cooler, cleaner and dryer smoking.
eOFW"tg iyn
Wide variety of itylet and tiin.
Write Medico Pipe, Inc, N.Y. 22. or Booklet
Make 
NEWPOWRT ARBL 
SPLffL
WITH
hsreshhC
For those graduates who 
are seeking the most chal
lenging work in the engin
eering and devolpment of 
high performance aircraft 
there is an excellent op
portunity at McDonnell 
for you.

We invite you to discuss 
your future with our rep
resentative who will con
duct campus interviews on 
November 17.LAMBERT ST. LOUIS MUNICIPAL AIRPORT 
ST. LOUIS 3, MO.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CONSULT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
AIRPLANES  HELICOPTERSGUIDED MISSILES
Fooferizing
The Most Beautiful Dry Cleaning
NO EXTRA CHARGE for One Hour Cleaning
zizz^l it These Footerizing Plants ......
5864 FORBES ST. Below Shady Ave.
5508 WALNUT ST., Shadyside 
4609 CENTER AYE. Below Craig St.
 CASH AND CARRY PRICES 
Suits .00 Sweaters - Trousers 
Dresses   Skirts - BlousesYV
Call and Deliver Phone HAzel 1-0400
AMERICAN-FOOTERS
CLEANERS - DYERS
Nationally Famous Since 1870

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 11, 1952
Letters
Book Store
Editor, the Tartan:
So this is Tech!
By heck
I'm confused, 
amused, 
f disheartened,
& tartan'd. 
the store selling books 
distrusted my looks! 
their petty decrees 
de(sign)ed to displease 
inauspiciously direct 
N any personal effect
to a table near the door 
(so one wont relieve the store 
of something he shouldnt!)
I must infer 
the manager
* believes
were thieves! * *
This asininity 
is contradictory.
If were each the evil avator 
the manager assumes we are 
then whats to prevent 
one wickedly beni
from copping, when able, 
my book from the table?
Mr. Manager:
O.K. We're all immoral wretches. So 
Ill take my books along wherer I go.
Signed,
K.E.L.
Chauffers Hut
Editor, the Tartan:
I have recently struck on an idea which you, 
or any campus organization, may take for what 
you might think it is worth.
It seems to me that with the recent barrage of 
effort to raise interest and spirit at Carnegie Tech, 
it  would not be too much to ask that our presi
dent set an example for the students.
This suggestion, however, involves not so much 
Dr. Warner, but his chauffer. Could not the drab 
and uninspired black or grey (whichever it is) cap 
which that gentleman wears be replaced with one 
of similar design, but constructed of Cameron 
Plaid? This would certainly add a note of Scot
tish distinction wherever the executive limousine 
might appear.
It has also been suggested that the car itself 
be painted plaid but this would be a little too 
much, I fear.
Perhaps some public minded organization on 
campus could contribute such a cap for the use 
stated above.
Yours truly,
Innocent Bystander.
Editorial
OFFICES: Carnegie Union 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. TELEPHONE: SChenley 1-4557, after hours MUseum
1-5380; for advertising and subscriptions: MUseum 2-3990. 
Published weekly, during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
hgy"WIywI93ytc  ................................. .......... Fred Sonnenberg
Business Manager ............................... ................. David Goldsmith
Managing Editor ...................................................... Dick Durstine
Co-Sports Editors ...................... Walt Wagner, Frank Fegley
News Editor .............................................................. Estelle Herlick
AtoWwwtG LwbtZDick Christensen. -t"*to hgy"WBill 
Smith. 0gMt"yoywb LwbtStan Rosenberg. Assistant 
i*oywtoo LwbtJerry Seiner. 9yu*G"yWw ManagerJoe 
LeMarca. A3W"WbF3d hgy"WMartin Snyderman. tFW"to 
Sheila Sullivan, Jack Armour, Joan Cummerton, Jane
Sunder, Dave Hubbard, Jackie Connolly, Marilyn Seiner,
Ken Winston ifa tFW"toBarbara Leonard, Pat Maue, 
Jo Forsythe, Elaine Manuele, Ann Dwindle, Dorothy Down
ing, Mildred Magura, Eunice Brunn, Dick Kendrick, Arlene 
Rosenberg. CFW"o tFW"t^ZLarry Summerill, Edward Feigenbaum, Robert Steiger, Peter Panidick, Gene OReilly, 
Dick Eppler, James Core. 9WFd tgtPaul Carmichael. 
0" C"ccJoan Brechin, Nelson Kelley, Dick Stahl. A3W"Wbk
F3toZBarbara, Toia, Don Hand, Myron Lewis, Roger Gre
gory. -t"*to C"ccAndrew Stedry, Robert McQuaid, Lin 
Smith, Judy Storch. ldFyo"Elayne Nord, Joanne Wagner. 
L1tIGpF C"ccEllroy Wilhaber, Don Wildman, Bea Pollock. 
EtgGywt C"ccVan Andersen, Pat Naugle, Dan Byers. 0gk
Mt"yoywb C"ccBruce Steinhart, Edward Clark. 9yu*Gk
"yWw C"ccDick Guarino, Jay Levy.
EtgGywt StaffVan Anderson, Pat Naugle, Dan Byers. 9WFd 
*wwtFred Young. 0gMt"yoywb C"ccBruce Steinhart, 
Edward Clark. 9yu*G"yWw C"ccDick Guarino, 5d Levy.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD
VERTISING, Inc.. College Publishers Representative, 420 
Madison Ave.. New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at 
the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage pro
vided for in the Act of February 28. 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.
Delayed Rushing?
While glancing through the long lists of pledges acquir
ed by the campus fraternities this year, the old question of 
delayed rushing came to mind again. During the past three 
years this issue has been thrown around in the Council of 
Fraternity Presidents and has always managed to be pocketed 
for any number of reasons. First it was the uncertainty 
of the draft situation, then the financial difficulties involved, 
and now no one knows.
CFP doesnt seem to be busy with any important pro
jects this year, although the past officers of the Council were 
kept constantly moving with the many proposed undertak
ings, such as enforcement of social rules, establishment of 
the Court of Justice, preparation of the national Interfra
ternity Councils brochure, and dis-continuation of the mad 
rush week at the beginning of the school year. Maybe there 
is no further work for the Council to do on the social and 
Court of Justice business, but a peek at the CFP minutes 
this year doesnt evidence too much being done in the line 
of work. At the last meeting there was no old business, no 
new business, and only a few announcements. Two years 
ago an extensive report of the rushing situation at Tech 
was given to CFP by Bob Kubiak, but since then nothing 
has been done except short debating followed by postpone
ments.
Everyone was in agreement with the first delay based on 
the uncertainty of enrollment from one spring to the following 
fall. However, while some students are still in doubt, the ma
jority, plus the new freshmen, are sure of being around the 
following fall. The fraternities were afraid that many of their 
actives would be drafted during the summer, and an under
manned chapter the next year would be forced to struggle 
until the late rushing season opened. The high number of 
pledges coralled by most of the houses this year leads us to 
believe the fraternities could afford to delay their rushing for 
a month or more next fall without serious financial difficulties.
The advantages to be obtained from a delayed rushing 
program seem to be evident to most of the Greeks, but the 
other conflicts have brought about the continued postpone
ments. Many freshmen have complained that too much is 
expected of them during their first week at Carnegie. They 
must become familiar with the campus, prepare their first 
years schedule, and choose the men they will live with for 
the next four years. Besides the disadvantage of not being 
able to pick his fraternity in one week, there is a serious 
scholastic conflict which arises for almost every pledge. 
During the first weeks of school he is expected to do all 
the menial pledge tasks (learning names, making paddles, 
and cleaning the house and yard) besides getting his feet 
on the ground in his studies. Several fellows have fallen by 
the wayside due to this overload, who probably could 
have made it through if all hadnt been thrown at them at 
once.
It almost seems to be a bit selfish for the fraternities 
to insist that delayed rushing would involve a longer period 
of time and more expenditures. Although the time consumed 
in rushing would be spread over a longer period than at 
present, the concentration would not be as great. The cost 
of a few meals shouldnt be the prime consideration in choos
ing a brother for the remaining college years.
inquiring Reporter
Barracks Question
by Ken Winston
This week the Inquiring Reporter wandered 
over to the FPHA barracks to obtain? the opinion 
of the residents concerning the recent debate over 
the merits of the barracks as a dormitory. The 
question asked was, What do you think of living 
conditions in the barracks as far as cleanliness, 
recreational facilities, bathing facilities, etc.? What 
do you think of the Tartan article on the barracks?
Raymond Mungiu, sophomore, electrical en
gineeringI definitely like the 
barracks as a place to live.
There are, of course, certain dis
advantages to living there, but I 
think these are of minor im
portance.
One of the most commenda
ble aspects of living in the bar
racks is the friendly spirit of 
co-operation which is found 
here which is not prevalent in 
the dormitories.
The rooms are smaller than those in the dor
mitories, but they are entirely adequate for all 
the necessities. They are well lighted and are al
ways warm. As far as cleanliness, the halls are 
swept every day and I belive it is up to the 
individual to sweep and keep his own room clean.
The bathing facilities are excellent, there are 
14 showers for e^ch wing of the barracks, this 
comes out to approximately one shower for every 
three persons.
Roy Voshall, freshman, electrical engineering
Compared to the other dorms, 
the barracks is not much below 
in the standard of living. Consid
ering the relative rates of the 
dormitories and the barracks 
plus .the fact that most of the
rooms in the barracks are pri
vate, these rooms compare fav
orably with those in the dorms.
The recreational facilities 
lere are as good as any of those 
in the dorms. There are two 
ping-pong tables which Wfe can use and a set of 
weights. The only thing I can suggest is a pool 
table.
As far as cleanliness, I think the barracks is
as clean as can be expected. Any room would get
dusty in this Pittsburgh smoke. The only thing 
I dislike about the rooms is that noise travels right
through the walls. However, I am perfectly con
tent to live here.
George Howard, freshman, physicsIn 
opinion, the living conditions 
in the barracks are adequate for 
the purpose for which they are 
intended. Service is good and 
recreational facilities are ample.
Actually the barracks has a 
direct advantage over the dormi
tories in that most of the rooms 
are singles. This promotes bet
ter study habits and, in the long 
run, better grades. The halls of 
the barracks are swept every
day, and I feel that they are as clean as can be 
expected.
Recreational facilities consist of two pingpong tables which are used quite frequently. We 
have, in addition, a lounge in which there is a 
candy-vending machine and a Pepsi dispenser.
Ray Bebb, freshman, mechanical engineering 
Although the barracks is liva
ble, I would like to see it re
placed by a well-built modern 
structure which would provide 
the student with more than just 
four cornboard walls and a 
roof over his head.
As the barracks are now, 
there is aboslutely no ornamen
tation, nothing to make it more 
than just a spot to study and 
sleep in. This leads to an atti
tude of disconcem on the part of some of the 
students and is probably responsible for the con
dition which the barracks is in.
 Many of the students who are now living in 
the barracks, when asked, say they would like to 
continue to live here even if they had a chance 
to move into the dormitories. They give as an 
excuse the high cost of the dormitories as com
pared to the barracks; however, if a student if 
spending $600 a year for tuition, perhaps $600 
more for living expenses, I cannot see where 
$10 or $20 would make much difference in the 
total cost of a college education.
As I have stated previously, I would like to 
see the barracks torn down and a new building 
erected in its place.
my

---------------------------------------------------

last game for Carnegie Tech when 
the Tartans meet Lehigh at Beth
lehem on November 15. Irv 
Schecter, Bill Pakan, Raj Shermeyer, Ray Rubin, Tom Craig, Gil 
Dissen, Jim Vodenichar, Joe' Galanda, Clyde Stahle, Bob Reuther, 
John Kaye, and Chuck Fuellgral compose the departing dozen slat
ed to graduate next June.First String Goes Practically the entire first- string offensive line-up will be lost. Craig, end; Galanda and Stahle, tackles; Shermeyer and Vodenichar, guards; Fuellgraf, center; Schecter, halfback; and Dissen, fullback formed the nucleus of the Tartan offensive unit. Coach Eddie Baker will have to build next years squad around three other regulars, Dick Pakos, end, a junior; Eddie Miller, quarterback, a sophomore; and Byron Eisaman, left halfback, a freshman. 
Craig, Stahle and Schecter will especially be missed at the Tartan camp.
Craig Standout Little All-American candidate, Tom Craig was a standout end both offensively and defensively. Besides being the leading pass- receiver, he also did most of  the punting. Tackle, Clyde Stahle, was also a two-platoon man. A defensive stalwart, Stahle inspired the line-play. Little Irv Schecter, scaling only 145 pounds, led the Plaid ground-gainers in total yards rushing.
IM Football
This Friday, November 14, the first intra-city football competition on an intramural 
level will begin. Featuring the respective champions from Pitt, Duquesne, and Tech, the series will begin this Friday with the Duquesne 49ers meeting Sigma Nu, Tartan hotshots, in first round play.
Pitt drew a bye In the first round and will meet the winner of the Tech-Duquesne contest to decide the mythical city crown. A team of Industrial Engineers will represent the Panthers.In case oi rain, the Nov. 14 game will be held over until Monday the 17; the final game, scheduled for Nov. 19, will be dropped back to Nov. 20 if the weather prevents the play from  continuing on schedule. One official from each school will be responsible for officiating each game.
RENT A TYPEWRITER
Wtafhqppenecf 
fofhe. 
old rah rah 
Spirit"?
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
TYPEWRITERS $
All Kinds as Low as J
American Typewriter Co,
II Wood St. fft <_IfHf
NAMEDEPT.
Convenient Parking
A 1953 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTANS weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
day's games.
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.
2. Each contestant wilj predict not only the winner, but also the final score at the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; in case 
of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by mid
night Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. Tf more than one entry is sub
mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be 
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
6. Winner of each weeks contest will receive a 1953 Thistle subscription, re
deemable at the time of publication
For the BEST
in 
Photographic 
Equipment and Supplies
^^/QLiberfy 
T?jgjiK Photo 
Supply
GR 1-6447 -  436 Wood St.
IT WENT OUT WITH RACCOON COATS and
rumble seats. And we say good 
riddance.
Todays college man doesnt die 
a thousand deaths when the school 
loses the big game. And his clothes 
are no longer flashy, fancy and 
gaudy.
For his apparel, he look* to 
Manhattan to reflect his quiet, sel fassured manner ... his insistence
on quality, comfort and casual ness.
Like this button-down Oxford 
with just the prop: roll to the 
collar. Or this fine white piqu with 
an eyelet tab collar with just the 
right degree of difference.
We understand the modern col
lege man. We concentrate our 
efforts, not on fads, but on making 
a better shirt. Ask for Manhattan 
... and youll see how true this is.
SMrta, w.u1,BW2 ,wgt,t2 
pofomo, ^FW".3G"^2 
HtWucu,t wg 3wg1tu3ytc.
No matter if this years team is the
underdog, spirits soar at the homecoming 
rally. There are bonfires, pep talks, cheers
yrnl for refreshment, delicious Coca-Cola.
 OTTLEO VNDEI AUTHORITY Of INI COCA-COLA COMPANY IY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA
 1953, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
Tuesday, November 11, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
Westminster Harriers Win 
Tri State Meet, Tech Second
The Carnegie Tech Harriers dropped their first cross country 
decision in two years last Saturday at Slippery Rock as Westminster
Twelve Seniors 
Play Last Game 
Against Lehigli
Twelve gridders will play their
Underdog Tartans End 
Season Away At Lehigh

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE: TARTANTuesday, November II, 1952
Tartan Board Selects IM All-Stars
Intramural Roundup
Volleyball And 
Wrestling Start; 
Badminton Finals
By Earl Mendenhall
After vigorous practice sessions 
on Thursday, Friday, ana Saturday, intramural volleyball 
started Monday night when the 
opening games of the season were 
played. Twenty-seven teams have 
been entered and it looks like 
there is going to be plenty of stiff 
competition in all three leagues. 
The only teams entered that were 
not represented in intramural 
football are the Slugs, Sekuds, 
Faculty, and Citcom.
Badminton 
Badminton play has progressed 
rapidly in the past week. The 
final game is between Sutton and 
Gillette. Gillette, a freshman, is 
favored to take the school cham
pionship since he defeated Rugheimer who was defeated last year 
in the final round by Don Braun. 
Sutton defeated Thompson to 
reach the final.
Wrestling 
Intramural wrestling also got 
under way on Monday. Thirtyone men have turned out for the 
sport with such stalwarts as D. 
Cook, W. Bowser, J. Edelblute, W. 
Brusallis, V. Valias, and E. 
Hromanik returning from last 
year to defend their championship 
titles. Practice is held at 4:30 p.m. 
Monday through Thursday under 
the direction of Coach Cecil 
Alexander and any men inter
ested in wrestling can still par
ticipate in the program. A tenta
tive extramural schedule has been 
arranged with matches against 
Duquesne, Shadyside, and possi
bly the Pitt frosh.
ALL STAR TEAM
Front row: A1 Blank, Jim Shenker, Frank Sura; Back row: Don 
Weaver, Jim Holthaus, Tony Ginetti.* * *
ALL SCHOOL TEAMS
OFFENSIVE TEAM DEFENSIVE TEAM
Blank, Newman .....................................End................................Guenther, SN
Sura, TX.....................................................End..........................., Richards, \TO
Shenker, PK...............................................Center ......................... Sebulsky, PK
Holthaus, SN .............................................Back ................................. Bushey, SN
Weaver, TDP ..........................................Back......................................Jones, DTD
Ginetti, PK ...............................................Back...................................Robbins, DU
ALL LEAGUE TEAMS
KILTIE LEAGUE
Bushey, SN..............................End
Winnick, TDP .......................End
Shenker, PK .....................Center
Holthaus, SN .......................Back
Weaver, TDP........................Back
Ginetti, PK............................Back
TARTAN LEAGUE
Blank, Newman.....................End
OReilly, DU.........................End
Abrams, BSR.....................Center
Ryan, Newman'...................Back
Brourman, BSR...................Back
Robbins, DU..........................Back
SKIBO LEAGUE
Sura, TX ...................................End
Lynch, TX ..............................End
Deitz, BTP..........................Center
Jones, DTD............................Back
Eastwood, TX.......................Back
Noel, BTP..............................Back
SCOTTIE LEAGUE
Downs, Roopsips...................End
Cerrito, ATO ..........................End
Blake, ATO........................Center
Bertocci, ATO .....................Back
Neaman, BSR B ____Back
Richards, ATO.....................Back
Most Valuable Player Award 
Presented To George Bushey
By FRANK FEGLEY
The All School Champion Sigma Nus and the Phi Kappas dom
inated the 1952 Intramural football all-star team, three men repre
sented Sigma Nu, Jim Holthaus, George Bushey, and Wayne Guenthem, while Tony Ginetti, Jim Shenker, and Ray Sebulsky were
chosen from Phi Kappa. ?-------------------------------------------------------------
This year both an offensive and 
a defensive all-star team was se
lected because of the extensive use 
of the two platoon system.
Don Weaver, Tau Delta Phi, was 
selected along with Holthaus and 
Ginetti to form the offensive 
backfield.
A1 Blank, Newman Club, and 
Frank Sura, Theta Xi, were unan
imous choices for the offensive end 
positions.
Bushey Outstanding 
George Bushey, offensive and 
defensive threat, was chosen most 
valuable player on the basis of his 
all-around play. Leading the Sig
ma Nus to the all-school cham
pionship, Bushey stood out as an 
end on the offense and a halfback 
on the defense.
The all-school football teams 
were chosen by a board made up 
of the intramural athletic super
visors, the managers club, the in
tramural board, and the sports 
editor of the Tartan.
GEORGE BUSHEY
Outstanding Player In 
Intramural Football
Sigma Nu Downs Newman, 14-9 
Wins IM Championship
Led by the passing of quarterback Jim Holthaus, and the fine 
offensive playing of George Bushey, Sigma Nu defeated the Newman 
club, 14-9, to take the all-school intramural football championship.
Sigma Nu jumped off to an early lead when Holthaus hit 
Reissmeyer in the end zone with^ 
a touchdown pass, and were never ^ 
headed.
The defensive strength of both 
squads told the story in the sec
ond and third periods, the New
man club picking up only two 
points while limiting Sigma Nu 
to one.
Trailing at the start of the last 
quarter, 7-3. Newman club ad
vanced to the Sigma Nu ten yard 
line, and threatened to score when 
a Ryan pass was intercepted by 
Bushey who proceded to dash 50 
yards along the sideline for what 
proved to be the game clinching 
score.
Not to be denied, Newman club 
came roaring back. Blank passed 
40 yards to Radziwon to set up 
a score and then tossed to Ryan 
who made a beautiful diving 
catch in the end zone for the tally.
Newman club then kicked to 
Sigma Nu, and with Holthaus 
mixing an air and ground of
fensive, the victors picked up two 
more points, and the score ended,
14-9.
Model Service Cleaners 
SAM PROVENZANO 
THE TAILOR
Dry Cleaning, Pressing, Dyeing
STNT -WHto C"n2 Ay""oH*b32 An
MA 1-2945
Pick Up and Deliver
Seemillers
Luncheonette
4601 Forbes Street
Comer Forbes and Craig
Complete 
Short Order Service
---o
SChenlev 1-9894
Special 10 Day 
Free Trial pf the 
New Parker "21"
Never before so fine a precision writing in
strument at such a low price! Beautiful New 
Parker 21by the makers of the worlds 
most wanted penis a perfect writing com
panion for school, home or office.
Gets yours on free trial today! Use the pen 
for ten days. If not satisfied, your money will 
be refunded.
sha 
A1t JPNJ
$
Y00
 Super-smooth octanium
 Slip-on metal cap
 Special ink regulator
 Concealed filler
 Visible ink supply
 Uses dry-writing super
brilliant Superchrome 
ink.
C, I. T. BOOKSTORE
HOME by
Akron, Ohio ....Harrisburg, Pa. ..___$5.25
Albany, N. Y.___11.20Johnstown, Pa. ..___ 1.60
Altoona, Pa..........___ 2.35New York City . ..
Baltimore, Md. . ..... 5.90Philadelphia, Pa. ..... 7.40
Cleveland, Ohio.... 2.95.... 6.95
Columbus, Ohio .___ 4.25Toledo, Ohio ........ 5.25
Cincinnati, Ohio___ 6.95Washington, D. C.___ 6.30
Detroit, Mich. ...___ 6.50Wilkes Barre, Pa.___ 6.55
.... 7.25Youngstown, Ohio___ 1.60
Plus V.S. Tax
Big EXTRA Savings On Round Trip Tickets
GREYHOUND TERMINAL 
Grant St. & Liberty Ave. GR 1-5700
GREYHOUNS

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 11, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage f
^CRNEGiE-vi;
r\
 II
n Mn/n jr/AWMM V 
- - y-------%',^V
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor ..................................................................... Victor Sabol
Reporters.........Anna Mae Legosh, George Schussler, Charles Keller,
Bill Brobst
\
Your I.D. CARD Means
15% Wcc
TIME SHOP
Lack Of Lab. Instructors Hit 
By An Evening School Student
Now that the elections are over, perhaps consideration of local 
problems is in order. Has it ever been brought to the attention of 
administration that much of the students time is wasted waiting 
to find out what they are to do and then more time lost in trying 
to get the equipment to work. ?------------------------------------------
Several examples are in order.
Although our class reported at 
6:30 p.m. according to schedule, 
no one knew what experiment was 
to be run until about 7:15 p.m.
After that was settled, our group 
became very disgruntled when the 
equipment was found to be in 
such bad shape that no data could 
be taken. By 8:30 p.m. nothing had 
been accomplished and we left in disgust.
What did we do for data? Well, it so happened that every one in 
the group had already run an experiment on that piece of equipment anyhow, so we used the set 
of data taken the year before.
Then there was the time that 
we tried two nights to get a set 
of data on an experiment on the Oldsmobile engine. The first night 
the engine wouldnt start for love or money and the second night the dynamometer wouldnt work.Finally, we settled for a set of 
data obtained by a more fortunate group.
Did anyone stop to consider that 
seven sections is too much for one man to take care of in the same evening. Mr. Walker has to supervise three sections in Mechanical Lab. II and four sections in Mech
anical Lab. I. How can he be at all seven places at the same time?
No wonder everyone is in a fog as to what they are to do.
How would you react if you were' told that you were to do 
an experiment on the air lift? Of 
course no one tells you what you are to do or even where to find the equipment.
Could anything be done so that 
the students would know what they were to do when they came to class? Is it too much to expect 
that someone see to it that the equipment that we are to use will be in working order?
If this is a taste of the Carnegie plan, I am inclined to believe we 
are going in the wrong direction.
Thistle Hall Will 
Host Social Dance 
On Saturday Night
This Saturday, November 15, 
Thistle hall will be the scene of 
the second social function of 
Evening Student Council for this year. Ken Pore, social chairman, 
announced that even though Eero Davidson, last years square dance caller, will not be able to attend due to other commitments, his son Jo Davidson will be on hand. 
Jo, we understand, is a caller of equal rank with his father.
Admission to the affair is 75c per person. Tickets can be secured from any student council member 
or at Mr. McKelways office in AH.
If you get overheated from 
your activities, you may escort your partner to the Black Cat lounge, where refreshments can be procured. Although actual dancing 
does not begin until 9:00 p.m., come early and get acquainted with the rest of the crowd.
Patronize Tartan Advertisers
 Watch Repairs
 Lighters  Gifts Watches  Jewelry Identification Bracelets
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077 
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
Women Evening Students Attend 
Tea Sponsored By Student Council
On Sunday, Nov. 2, Evening Student Council sponsored a tea 
for women evening students to acquaint them with the activities 
of Council and develop interest in social functions. Phi Gamma Pi 
sorority members were hostesses for the affair.
Those who attended enjoyed aO------------------------------------------------
motion picture on river trans
portation entitled, Timberhead, 
which is a Union Barge Line cor
poration presentation. Mr. Authur 
J. Brosius, Assistant to the Vice 
President of the corporation, in
troduced the film and answered 
questions.
Following the discussion Mr. 
Charles Keller, president of Even
ing Student Council outlined the 
activities of Council and invited 
those interested to participate in social activities. He further explained how points are accumulated for the Evening Student Coun
cil insignia award.
Rose Marie Allias presented a resume of the activities of Phi 
Gamma Pi since its organization in 1946.
Decorations were based on the 
background provided by the nautical film. Ellen Gonter provided the centerpiece of white coral 
and red carnations against a silver anchor, which were placed on a red and white checked cloth. Ken Pore furnished a model boat to 
complete the decorations. White,
blue, and gold paper anchors were 
used as namecards to identify 
members of the sorority, Council, 
and the faculty, as well as visitors. 
The namecards, as well as posters 
and decorations were prepared by 
Jean Woods.
For Your Next 
FRATERNITY OR 
SORORITY AFFAIR
a. PINES
Dancing Every Sat. Night 
PERRY HIGHWAY 
ROUTE 19
Popular Orchestra
Reservations for Weddings, 
Banquets and Private Parties
WEllington 1-2131
SUNDAY DINNERS 12-8
IMPORTANT
ANNOUNCEMENT
con STOM
R esrcheGEcaA LfDPAI R
Actual student'interviews in
Nationwide oore sBOxers prefer Luckies
80 leading colleges margin. Ho. 1
and by  *xthM other .* y al50 ,o.s
T.uofcies' better tas^, 
reason given - ^cKl these colleges
far more smoKers
than tbe na \-iiuiSrsT
. ______l Mail Y<
use the New
MICROTOMIC
Z "3t 0HoWG*"tGd DwycWO
DRAWING PENCIL
 Absolute uniformity means drawings without weak spots'*- clean, legible detail. Famous tor smooth, lone-wearing leads. Easily distinguished by bull's-eye degree sides of pencil.
RD9ehC l0Clh ihllhU
FOR A CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER SMOKE
Be fWGO LUCKY!
AJ.COrwsvcLdf0Lhe90pC D07esf L0sD-09lDhB Of 9NC0DleCB

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 11, 1952
A dventu reSeeking A Ichemist 
Visits Neighboring Schools
Facts And Implications of (iSchool Spirit99
Pondered By Wandering Science Student
By John J. John, Jr., as told to R. Durstine
Following the brief but barbaric invasion of our quiet little 
eampus several weeks ago, I resolved to make a visit to the lofty 
gray structure that had unleased its fury upon us in the form of 
thousands of screaming vandals. Such a place, I thought, would 
be well worth observing first#-----------------------------------------------
hand, providing the inmates are 
kept under lock and key or be
hind deep moats.
I set out early one evening to 
make my visit, armed with pick, 
alpenstock, and a three day sup
ply of yak meat in case I should 
become lost on a crag of the stone 
wedding cake that houses the lib
eral arts college I planned to 
visit.Barber's College
Setting out down Forbes street, 
I walked for some time before 
anything eventful happened. Then 
I noticed several dwellings to my 
left, and was reminded to write 
my congressman and make sure 
that these places are not condemned, but saved for the use of irugal Carnegie students after the barracks hava been removed.This done, I continued on my
CRISPER, CLEANER 
DRAWINGS...use
the world's largest selling
DRAWING PENCILS
Turn in consistently neat, accurate draw 
mgs with Venus Drawing Pencils. Tbej 
hold tbeir points and give you opaqu 
lines for tharp, clear reproduction.
CLfflE The lines are uniform G
weight and tone because the clay and 
graphite in Venus Drawing Pencils art 
blended evenly m the Colloidal* process.
Clfsr Venus Drawing Pencils 
are Pressure-Proofed* which means that 
the lead is bonded to the wood. Adds 
extra strength to needle-sharp points.
099D0lh Your work is easier
with Venus Drawing Pencils. Scientifi
cally tested at each step of manufacture 
and uniformly graded in all 17 degrees.
For better results, use Venus Drawing 
Pencils with the green crackle finish. Buy 
them at your College Store.
**xcJuiv* Vnui Patcot
FOR THIS HELPFUL 
INSTRUCTION BOOKLET!
Try Venus on your 
c\rawing board!
Send 23c. for "Sketcbiag
with Venus ... 24 page* 
of valuable illustrated in* 
Mruction. Also you get at 
i extra cost a Technical 
Te*t Kit, featuring 2 Ve
American Pencil Company, Hoboken, New Joraap 
maker i offamous Venus Peru
 American load Poncil Co. 
i Hoboken, N. J.
Enclosed ii 2Jt for my copy of "Sketching 
with Venus"and the Technical Test Kit 
I *ith 2 Venus Drawing Pencils. '
Ct<ege
way,, until my destination loomed 
above. I was about to enter when 
a fellow McBoss hall resident ap
peared at my side to inquire if I 
wished to join him on a journey. 
He had heard good reports on the 
quality of the library at a bar
bers college some 30 miles to the 
south and wanted to visit the 
place.
Begins to Think
I will not mention further de
tails of the trip, except to say
that the students there are un
commonly diligent in their stud
ies, although they have a slight 
tendency to overdo a job once 
they have begun.
After my return from the south, 
I began to ponder the question 
of pep rallies, school spirit 
(what that might be), and affairs 
in general.
The situation is indeed one of 
great interest. On the one hand, 
we have a group of. persons beg
ging us to exhibit this spirit 
stuff, doing their best to whip as 
many people as will be whipped 
into an hysterical frenzy, and con
tinually probing their brains (if 
done to excess, this is hard on the 
brain) for ways and means to in
cite student interest and pride.
Back in Old Rut
But now the lew who cried for 
spirit wonder how they can 
suppress future such uprisings. 
They convene and worry and dis
cuss plans. They are still in favor 
of the energy of the masses, but would like a way to control it, to
ration enthusiasm over the year rather than have it spent in one Herculean jag.
And after all their talking they will notice that things are back in the old rut, and become complac
ent, and do nothing, except to keep trying to build spirit.* Then it will all happen again, just as it has in the past.Perhaps history does repeat itself after all.
The young executive
MAKES HIS MARK IN RETAILING 
THROUGH SPECIALIZED TRAINING
One-year Course
load to 
Mostors 
Degre*
Specialized training speeds college grads 
to top retail jobs. Interesting positions open 
in buying, advertising, fashion, personnel, 
management and teaching. Realistic class
room approach. Supervised store experience 
with pay. Coeducational. Graduates placed. 
Scholarships available.
Send for Bulletin C
SCHOOL OF RETAILING
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 13, Pm.
Patronize Tartan Advertisers
NOSE. THROAT1
and Accessory Organs not Adversely 
Affected by Smoking Chesterfields
f
FIRST SUCH REPORT EVER PUBLISHED 
ABOUT ANY CIGARETTE
A responsible consulting organization has
reported the results of a continuing study by a 
competent medical specialist and his staff on the 
effects of smoking Chesterfield cigarettes.
A group of people from various walks of life 
was organized to smoke only Chesterfields. For six 
months this group of men and women smoked their 
normal amount of Chesterfields  10 to 40 a day. 
45% of the group have smoked Chesterfields con
tinually from one to thirty years for an average of 
10 years each.
At the beginning and at the end of the sixmonths period each smoker was given a thorough
examination, including X-ray pictures, by the 
medical specialist and his assistants. The exam
ination covered the sinuses as well as the nose, 
ears and throat.
The medical specialist, after a thorough exam
ination of every member of the group, stated: 
It is my opinion that the ears, nose, throat and 
accessory organs of all participating subjects ex
amined by me were not adversely affected in the 
six-months period by smoking the cigarettes 
provided.-*
. S'ate____________ Buy CHESTERFIELD-Mocft Milder
9WFdyb3" NTYPn Rerrhll c" L<heC lfi099f 9
