First Semester 
Sorority 
hedges Listed* 
See Page 4
PF_Tartan's Defense 
Perfect 
For Second Week* 
See Page 3
VOL. 46No. 7CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., OCT. 28, 1952
Kappa Sig Display Wins Competition
NAVCAD Officer 
To Visit CIT
Movies To Be Shown 
Depicting Life Of Cadet
A Naval Aviation Cadet 
(NAVCAD) procurement officer 
from the Naval air station of Ak
ron, Ohio, will be present on the 
Carnegie Campus to answer student questions concerning the Navys pilot training program tomorrow, Wednesday, October 29.
Color movies depicting the life of a NAVCAD trainee will be run from 4:00 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in AH 132F for the benefit of all those interested in the program.
Successful completion of the program leads to a commission as ensign in the Navy or second lieutenant in the Marine Corps.
Graduates from the aviation cadet program may qualify to pilot the Navys newest and fastest jet fighter planes from the decks of modern aircraft carriers.
Queen Judy Storch Photo by Snyderman
Coronation part of Friday's Carnegie Day
No Tartan
Due to the imminent ap
proach of mid-semester exam
inations, there will be no 
TARTAN published next 
week. The next issue will ap
pear on Tuesday, November 11.
Playhouse Stages 
Lindsay-Crouse 
Mystery Comedy
The second production of the Pittsburgh Playhouse season, Re
mains To Be Seen by Howard 
Lindsay and Russel Crouse, opened a four-week run at the Hamlet street theater last Saturday even
ing.
Directed by Robert Bardwell, 
this mystery-comedy which en
joyed a successful Broadway run last season, will have its first 
Pittsburgh showing at the Play
house this week.
The team of Lindsay and Crouse, which has been responsible for so many fine theater productions, has fashioned a fast-moving, spine- tingling mystery in Remains To 
Be Seen. And throughout all its hair-rasing action, the play is an 
hilarious comedy, reminiscent in 
concept of Arsenic and Old Lace 
which Lindsay and Crouse pro
duced originally in New York.
In the leading role of the small
time vocalist, Sut Delphey will make her Playhouse debut. William Glennon will play the other 
top role of the young jazz drummer.
Correction
In Professor Robert 
Schwarzs column in last 
weeks Tartan, the phrase 
printed The British A-bomb 
will not only lead to an arma
ment race between American 
and Britain . . should have 
read . . . will not only not 
lead . .
We wish to apologize for this 
error, which altered the 
meaning of an entire para
graph in the column.
Gym Filled Saturday 
For Honorary Calls
A record attendance of Carnegie students and alumni witnessed 
the official opening of Homecoming when Judy Storch, freshman P&D 
and Homecoming queen, showered the gym with balloons. The five 
contributing colors to the Cameron plaidyellow, red, black, green, 
and bluerepresented various#
parts of a successful weekend.
The queen and her attendants, Lin Smith and Shirley Wilson, 
were dressed in white formals 
draped with Cameron plaid rib
bon and carried thistle-tin ted 
bouquets. With the bagpiper corps 
and the Scabbard and Blade hon
or guard escorting, the honored 
freshman women found their way 
to the platform, draped with the 
traditional Cameron plaid.
Very Successful 
After being presented by Dick 
McFadden, the master of ceremon
ies, President J. C. Warner crowned the Homecoming Queen.
Alumni and students both 
agreed that this years Carnegie 
day was the best attended and 
most successful in Techs history. 
With the details of programming 
and physical appearance of the 
gym meticulously arranged by Eu
nice Brunn, the annual Carnegie 
day was outstanding.
Music Featured 
In adition to the calls to the 
honoraries which are listed else
where in the paper the program included other interesting features.
The Kiltie band and Cameron 
choir entertained with appropriate 
Scottish music. Robbie Shand and 
Mary Elizabeth Davidson entranc
ed the audience and court with the Highland fling and Sword 
dance.
Speaking for the alumni was 
Mr. John Elliot, traditionally at
tired in a plaid beret before and 
after the program. He added to 
Dick McFaddens explanation of 
the plaid and inspired undergraduates to greet alumni and return 
after graduation.
Flying Club 
Gives Films
Beta Sigs And DUs Aivarded 
Second And Third Place Cups
by Estelle Herlick
A record crowd of more than 650 couples witnessed the award
ing of the competition cups at the culminating event of the Home
coming weekend Saturday night. After Mitzie Cottle, Gwen Sheffey, and Marjorie Ruttle gave a few renditions from Scotch n
_ -----?Sodas Good Heavens. Ruth
Cooper presented the Kappa Sigma fraternity with the first place cup for the finest house decorations. The winning display included a large head, symbolizing Case, with big teeth being pulled by mechanical Tech football players. The caption was Lets all pull together. W&J was seen in the waiting room.
The Big Kill 
Second place award went to Beta Sigma Rho fraternity who welcomed alumni To the big killthe electrocution of a large convict symbolizing Case. Delta Upsilon won third place with their display of a Scottie dog pulling the plaid football field, causing chaos among the Case players.
Phi Kappa fraternity presented the best cheer of the 12 pledge classes who competed at the Friday night pep rally. They were also awarded their cup during the 
[Continued on page 2]
The Skibo Flying club of Car
negie Tech will present a series of 
films devoted to primary flight training, beginning Tuesday, No
vember 4, at 11:30 p.m. The sound films will be shown in PH 104 
and admission is free.
The entire seven week program is the exact sequence used by instructors in training as inexperienced pliot, and will be invalua
ble to anyone, male or female, who 
would someday like to learn to fly. These same films were used on campus last year, and met with 
great success. Robert Taylor plays 
the part of the flight instructor. The tips given in the films will actually result in money saved 
when an individual begins taking flight instruction.
The-Skiboes, as the flying club is called, was formed last year to 
further the knowledge of aviation for all Carnegie students who can fly or hope to someday. Several times last year the club held meetings at one of the Pittsburgh airports to become more familiar with aviational procedures.
Next semester the club will con
tinue with advanced courses in acrobatics, navigation, cross coun
try procedures, and other courses pertaining to aircraft.
Code Being Taught 
By Radio Club 
To All Interested
Fall operations of the Carnegie Tech radio club are now under 
way. The clubs transmitters on bands throughout the VHF, UHF, 
and super high frequency areas 
are now either working or nearing 
completion. A good deal of success 
has been reported in contacting hams in this country and over
seas.
Plans for teaching Morse code 
in preparation of the new novice 
class license (five words per min
ute transmission) and higher 
classes are under way. Instructions 
will be given to any Tech student 
regardless of department. Equip
ment is provided.Weekly meetings are held in I
Students Called To Honoraries; 
Scholarship Awards Presented
As is customary at the Carnegie day ceremony, awards were 
given to many students and several honoraries made calls to member
ship.
For Alpha Phi Omega, William Balentine called to member
ship Charles Grosick, Alton Long,#----------------------------------------------
Joseph Rogers, David Robertson, 
Robert Stuckling, and Van Andersen.
Delta Skull had Ellroy Wildhaver call four j union men: Bob 
Dannels, Ned Clark, Gerry Lessman, and Tom Warner.
George Good, for Pi Delta Ep
silon, added Nancy Calloway, Nan
cy Rausch, Estelle Herlick, James 
Seibert, William Stewart, Bruce Steinhart, Dick Durstine, Jerry 
Seiner, Bea Pollack, Bill Smith, 
and Elmer Veres to its membership.
The Council of Fraternity Presi
dents presented its scholarship cup 
for the highest fraternity average 
to Beta Sigma Rho. Chi Omega 
received the scholarship cup from 
the Pittsburgh PanHel associa
tion for being the sorority with 
the highest factor on the Carne
gie campus. The PanHell Scholar
ship award was presented to Mar
garet Figner of Delta Delta Delta 
sorority.
Nancy Rausch, president of 
Mortar Board, announced the 
award for the highest freshman
MH 401 at 12:00 noon Tuesdays. I average would be presented to
two girls, each of whom had at
tained a 3.90 average, Janice 
Yent and Virginia Schultz. Tau 
Beta Pis award to last years outstanding freshman man went 
to Andrew Stedry.
Omicron Delta Kappa called Robert Carman, Irving Schecter, 
Robert Byrne, and William Smith. 
-ODK is the senior mens activities honorary.
The national engineering hon
orary, Tau Beta Pi, called the following seniors: Andrew Burke, 
Neal Campbell, Robert Depue, Phillip Eckman, Uri Greenbaum, 
Roger Lee, Howard Mcllvried, Donald Parks, Robert Robl, James 
Seibert, Fred Sonnenberg, and Raymond Sorensen; from the jun
ior class: Robert Dannels, Dick Durstine, and John Laynor.Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, music! 
honorary, called to membership: 
Robert Brown, Enea Caravacci, i 
Thomas Caruso, Joseph Ceo, Aldo 1 Dilanni, Wayne Galbraith, Charles 
Gillespie, Harvey Lederstein, Vin
cent Marchionda, Russell Manor, 
Raymond Ponzo, William Saul,: 
Henry SpinclJi, and John Sweeney. |
Torn
Wright Takes 
Frosli Election
Climaxing four weeks of inten
sive campaigning, the election results for the class of 1956 have 
been announced. This years election represented the first real battle since the days of Dormicon. with candidates running on a ticket.
Freshman president Wright, a pledge to Alpha 
Tau Omega fra
ternity. During 
a pre - election 
interview Wright ex
pressed the 
idea that in or
der for the class to stand togeth
er, it must pro
mote and create . . .
class activities. Wnih
He also promised to set up a sug
gestion box to give each frosh a voice in class government.
Ed Eld was elected vice-president of Engineering and Science; 
Jim Tilbrook, Humanistic and Social Studies; John Conboy, Fine 
Arts; and Janet Bishop, Margaret Morrison.
Secretary of the class will be 
Lin Smith, and treasurer will be 
Ruth Rand. The results were announced at the Homecoming dance during the intermission. No def
inite plans have been disclosed yet by the officers.
Correction
The new issue of the C 
book lists the Presbyterian 
hospital as the one to be 
used. This should have been 
listed as the Shadyside hos
pital, 5230 Center avenue, 
MU 1-5300. Please make this 
correction in the front of your 
C book.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 28, 1952
note
BeHappygo lucky!
'A
Winning Homecoming Displays
Kappa Sigs dentist and Beta Sigs Sam
Photo by Snyderman
Phi Kappa Pledge Class Wins 
Pledge Cheer Contest At Rally
[Continued from page 3] 
intermission. At the same time 
the Homecoming Queen was pre
sented and the freshman class of
ficers were announced.
Mobile Decoration 
The dance and decorations, 
planned by Ginny Somerville and 
Sally Weet respectively, carried 
out the theme of the plaid in all 
three rooms of the gym. Probably 
the most outstanding attraction 
was the mobile decoration hanging 
from the crepe paper ceiling, 
which included a Scottie dog, a 
bagpipe, a football, a football hel
met, and the numerals 1952.
Pnoto by Snyderman
DUs Display 
Cops third place
Mechanicals
The American Society of 
Mechanical Engineers will 
hold its national convention In 
Columbus, Ohio, this year. All 
ME's including freshmen, are 
urged to join the ASME in 
order to benefit from the con
vention and other activities.
4.0A l
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR $10
AKi.n4dA.4
m
AKi.n4dA.4s
All Kinds M Low *
American Typewriter Co. 
il wood st. CO. 1-1019Convenient Parking '  *  
University Recreation
BOWLING
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
407-09 M4ldL sA4..A 
sMowCve tParkg
The plaid was also included in 
the Kiltie band halftime enter
tainment at the football game. Be
fore the kickoff they entered Forbes field with Cases band, the Homecoming Queen and her court, and military escort. After the Case exhibitions of formations and songs of Stephen Collins Foster at half-time, the Kiltie band assem
bled in the formation of a sitting Scottie and then moved to form a standing Scottie with a wagging 
tail. This was followed by the traditional CT.
JEANNES
DRESS SHOP
5818 FORBES STREET 
SQUIRREL HILL
Store Hours 10 til 6 Mon., Wed. & Fri. 10 til 9 Tues. and Sat.
Phones JA 1-0249 - JA 1-9925 
"Always the Smartest"
Editor-in-Chief ............................................................................................................ Fred Sonnenberg
Business Manager ................................................... P .................. David Goldsmith
Managing Editor .......................................................................................................... Dick Durstine
Co-Sports Editors ........................................................................,. Walt Wagner, Frank Fegley
News Editor ............................................................................. Estelle Herlick
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., 
College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscrip
tion $1.10 per year.
Entered as second (dass matter on October 'B 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special 
rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.
notBPSI
eore BnoNCE to the Ounce
TwaS0rn'd that
2S5W
goluck y!uikg !ca!ok comc! ayurvl 
Untitiwi*ur b'dKnows US./M-r.u
Leah Belle Kor"
Pembroke College
KT.Co
STUDENTS! 
Make $25! 
Send in your 
Lucky Strike 
jingles now!
PRODUCT OF
c J&riM.TtJta.iv iJiH&izev -onyi 
MUMU't kB*0IMO MAVUrACTVRSR O# CIOAMTTM
OFFICES: Carnegie 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. TELEPHONE: SChenley
1-4457, after hours MUseum 1-5380; for advertising and subscriptions: MUseum
2-3990. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and examina
tion periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

1
Tuesday, October 28, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
Tartans Blank Roughriders 
10-9 For Fourth Straight
Last Saturday at Forbes Field the winning ways of Tartan* 
gridders were extended at the expense of Case Techs Roughriders 
in a 10-0 defensive game that topped oft a terrific homecoming 
Weekend. This was the fourth consecutive victory for the Scots 
with only the season opening 27-20 loss to Californias Vulcans 
to mar an otherwise perfect record.
Dissen Breaks Deadlock 
The first half was apparently going to be only an exchange of 
punts and downs until Gil Dissen#
broke the scoring column shortly sen added the extra point that finbefore halftime with a 25 yard boot through the uprights to give 
the Tartans a 3 point edge.
The field goal attempt was set up when Tom Craig, playing both 
offense and defense for the Scots, 
receovered Fred Wrights fumble on the midfield stripe.
Guy Carricato then passed to Dissen on the 18 for a Tartan first down with only a minute left to play in the half. Three further pass attempts were thwarted by 
the Roughriders before Gil ended the deadlock by flipping the pigskin expertly over the goal for three points.
The field goal for the Plaid was the only scoring threat by either 
team in the first half. With the exception of a pass interception 
by Ed Miller, Tartan quarterback, the second half was also void of any scoring threats.
Intercept and ScoreWhile the visitors were deep in 
their own territory, Miller got in 
the way of a flat pass on Cases 25 yard line and there was only Dave Graeser, the Roughrider who 
threw the pass, with an oppor
tunity to stop him. Miller nimbly 
avoided Graeser and raced into the end zone standing up, and DisSTATISTICS
CITCase
12 . ... Total First Downs .... 108 . .
2 . .
122 . ... Net gain rushing ... .m25 . .... Passes attempted...... 226 ... Passes completed.. 44 . ... Passes intercepted ... . 273 . .. . Net gain passing __. . 77195 . ... Total yards gained ... .1888 . ... 930 x4.. .. Punting average .... 35-3/96 ... 161 .Punt return yardage.. 84 . .. . 62 . .. . Ball lost fumbles . ... 14 . ... 550 . .. . 55
CASE
Ritter,Stakolich,"EndsAshiey,
Hernandez.
TacklesDeAnglis, Braidic, Hodakievic, Hancock, Bobac, Januska. 
GuardsMusall, Scott, Burkhart,
Goetz, Lucas, Milner.
CenterKitinoja.
QuarterbacksStreet, Graeser. 
Halfbacks  Venetta, Janokaitis, 
Pardee, McPhillamy, Nagy.
FullbackRate.
CARNEGIE TECH
EndsZeigenfuss, Pakos, Craig, 
Selavko.
Tackles  Williamson, Wensczyn, 
Galanda, Stahle. Reuther, Major. 
GuardsVodenichar, Karcher, Habeggar.
CenterFuellgraf.
QuarterbacksMiller, Peoples, Car
ricato.
HalfbacksPakan, Brown, Schechter, Eiseman, Kennedy.
FullbacksDissen, Skillin, Kamer. 
Carnegie Tech 0 3 7 010
Case 0 0 0 0 0
Field goalDissen (25-yard place
ment.) j
TouchdownMiller (25-yard run 
with intercepted pass.)
OfficialsReferee: Harry Logiodice.
Umpire: j Leo Markey. Linesman:J. J. Carrigan. Field judge: Harold
Grim.
Plaid Harriers 
Triumph, 15-40
Roughriders Eliminated 
Through 5-Way Tie
Carnegie Techs cross-country 
team followed a share-the- wealth program yesterday with a 
five-way tie for first place in the 15-40 victory over Case.
Tartans Bob Carman, Mai Gillies, A1 Hayes, Roger Coyle, and 
Arnie Olds crossed the finish line side by side. Their time for the 
4.3-mile Schenley Park course was 
24:56 minutes.
Techs John Muller finished aX
onely sixth in 25:56. Then came 
)on Jones and Ted Heim of Case, 
Ted Felk of Tech, and three more Case runners, Harry Schwartz, Ed 
Hahn, and Henry Leggon.
ished the scoring for the day 
Case Threatens
Wally Selavko thwarted the 
only real Case threat in the second 
half when he recovered a wandering pitchout intended for Ed Mc
Phillamy. John Hernendez had taken a 30 yard heave from Clark Street to move the visitors down to the Plaid 21. Several plays later they had first down on the Tartan 10 but Selavko made a timely 
recovery and the Scots were on the move themselves.
Next week the Carnegie gridders host Washington & Jefferson Prexies at Forbes Field for the last home game of the season. 
After a two week interlude, the Scots will then travel to BethleIM Champ ionships
The respective winners of the four intramural football leagues will meet to decide the all-school championship. The new champs are:
Kiltie League..........Sigma NuTartan League. .Newman ClubSkibo League............Theta XiScottie League..............ATOMonday night at 4:30 p.m., Newman club meets Alpha Tau Omega, and Tuesday night, Sigma Nu plays Theta Xi. The winners of those two games play Thursday for the whole works.
Forecast Even Sigma Nu, Newman club, and Theta Xi are in a virtual tie for first place in the most recent Tar
tan ratings with only 0.2 of a point 
separating the teams. The dark horse, Alpha Tau Omega, ranks 
about a touchdown behind this trio.
hem to meet the Engineers from Lehigh University in what may 
prove to be the best contest of the year for Carnegie fans.
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST ENTRY 
for Games Played on November 1, 1952
CARNEGIE TECH Pitt
Penn State 
Army
Notre Dame
Maryland
Lehigh
SM
UCLA
Tennessee
Cornell
Georgia Tech
Michigan State
Illinois
Ohio State
Wash-Jeff
Indiana
PennsylvaniaVMI
Navy
Boston University
Bucknell
Texas
California
North Carolina
Columbia
Duke
Purdue
Michigan
Northwestern
NAME...........................................DEPT.
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS ............
.CLASS
A 1953 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTANS weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
days games.
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.
2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final score 
of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; in case of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scopes.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by mid
night Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. Tf more than one entry is submitted by. a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be Judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be 
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
6. Winner of each weeks contest will receive a 1953 Thistle subscription, redeemable at the time of publication
Intramural Roundup
PITTSBURGH OPERA, INC.
Richard Karp, General Dir.Armando Agnini, Artistic Dir.
With
METROPOLITAN OPERA STARS
SYRIA MOSQUE
5 THURS. and 5 SAT. EVENINGS at 8:15 P. M.
NOV. 20 & 
22, 1952MANON
Licia Albanese Eugene Cfonley Ralph Herbert
JAN. 22 & 
24, 1953CARMEN
Mary M. Briney Clara M. Turner Walter Cassel
FEB. 19 & 
21, 1953TOSCA
Dorothy Kirsten David Poleri Cesare Bardelli
MARCH 19
& 21, 1953OTELLO
Mario del Monaco Ellen Faull Robert Weede
APRIL 23 
& 25, 1953MADAM BUTTERFLY
Irma Gonzalez William Home
STUDENT SALE FOR ABOVE OPERAS
Will be held at the Carnegie Music Dept. October 30 
and 31, beginning at 10:00 A. M. There will be STUDENT 
TICKETS for Thursday and Saturday evenings. Prices 
are as follows for 5 OPERAS: $5.00, $6.00, $8.00, $9.00.
Hurry! Only A Two Day Sale
Student prices are at greatly reduced rates over 
the general public.
SNWins Kiltie Cup, 
Beat TDP, PhiKaps
Theta Xi Beats Dells In Drive For
Skibo League Crown, 22-15, 30-22
by Frank Fegrley
Paced by the passing of Jim Holthaus and the all-round defen
sive play of George Bushy, Sigma Nu broke the three way leader
ship deadlock in the Kiltie league with wins over erstwhile con
tenders Phi Kappa, 12-7 and Tau Delta Phi, 22-13.
Phi Kappa, previous victors -----
over Sigma Nu, got off to a fast 
lead via a Ginetti to Vilsack TD 
pass, but Holthaus erased this de
ficit by hitting Don Wood with 
an aerial in the end zone. Lead
ing 9-6 at halftime, the victors 
rolled up three more first downs 
to emerge triumphant.
Holthaus vs. Weaver 
The Sigma NuTau Delta Phi 
game featured the passing of Halthaus and Don Weaver. Each toss
ed for two touchdowns. A five 
yard scoring run by Holthaus 
coupled with a pair of safeties 
was the margin of victory.
TX Downs Delts 
A well coached Theta Xi sex
tet whipped defending all-school 
champions Delta Tau Delta, 22- 
15, last Monday to tie for lead
ership in the Skibo league, and 
then came back and downed the 
same Delts. Thursday, in a play
off tilt 30-22. The passing com
bination of Eastwood to Sura
connected for three tallies in the 
second game.
Newman Victors 
The Newman club emerged as 
champions in the Tartan league 
by virtue of an upset 18-15 victory 
over Delta Upsilon, while ATO 
knocked off the Roopsips 18-4 to 
take home the Scottie league 
laurels.
FINAL IM STANDINGS 
Final IM Standings 
TARTAN LEAGUE
Newman Club 5
Delta Upsilon 4
BSR A 3
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 2
Emanon 1
Kappa Sigma 0
KILTIE LEAGUE
Sigma Nu 5
Tau Delta Phi 3
Phi Kappa A 3
Obelisks 1
Greatest 0
SKIBO LEAGUE
Theta Xi 4
Delta Tau Delta 3
Beta Theta Pi 2
Pi Kappa Alpha 1
M.E.s 1
SCOTTIE LEAGUE
Alpha Tau Omega
Roopsips
BSR B
Phi Kappa SB 
Sigma Nu B
MEDICO
V e (node.I W JUjwrtft# Burgundy Finish- -i x x
f O.WdMI V.F.a.-*Z With NEW NYLON BIT.J Exclu!ivc! Guarakoccd Bioc-Prool!
* Odorless! Tasteless! Cushion Bite!
MEDICO MEDAIIST-M.5QWhen filter turns brownin Medico 
Pipes or Cigarette Holdersthrow 
It away, with nico
tine, juices, flakes, 
tars it has trapped.
Insert a fresh filter,
| for cooler, cleaner and dryer smoking*
Imported Briar. i w-tt*
Wld* varicoy ol ooylc* akd lii.
(Wrioc Mcdico Pipc!, Ikc, N.g. 22, lor Booklco k i
MCWDCttAKTTI t CIBtt HOUgtS-*! J
AnniversarySALE
Get Your ^ Worth
Special
OISE DAY OISLY 
Sat., Nov. 1
SILVER $ DOLLARS89*for
Many ItemsCameras and Accessories
20 oo 50% Oll Durikg Salc 
THE FOTOSHOP Squirrel Hill
5854 FORBES STREET
(Between Murray and Shady) 
HA 1-6883  Open til 9 P. M.Tues., Thurs. and Sat.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 28, 1952
Nd4sA sGME 4.iI4A .-.4 iGhfdsE.W 
lhIGA l0K MdLl4.AA.
S PORUBU 
champion*
4.0 CHESTERFIELD. ffifer
Sororities Announce 
List Of Fall Pledges
There' lots of excitement 
round the dance floorgreeting 
old friends, making new ones. 
Part of the fun of campus parties] 
FS the pause to enjoy a Coke.
It's delicious... refreshing, too.
Photographic 
Equipment and Supplies
iberty 
l[Mff Photo 
Supply
L4 tP'''g b b 'r' nDDc sub
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COLA COMPAKY *Y
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH il
p ta,HB AEu MIMlPMIfl MIOil0K
Lutherans
The Lutheran students as
sociation will have its next 
meeting on Tuesday, October 
28. Dr. T. A. Kantonen from 
Hamma Divinity school will 
speak on Luther Now. Dis
cussion meetin will be led by 
George Yanda. Everyone is 
welcome to attend the din
ner at 6:00 p.m. which will 
be followed by the meeting at 
7:15 p.m. There will be * 50 
cent charge for the dinner.
and Accessory Organs not Adversely 
Affected by Smoking Chesterfields
ITwC lC lUUDRCu YCc Lwu 
VOUR I I'LL DISCOUNT
A responsible consulting organization has
reported the results of a continuing study by a 
competent medical specialist and his staff on the 
effects of smoking Chesterfield cigarettes.
examination, including X-ray pictures, by the 
medical specialist and his assistants. The exam
ination covered the sinuses as well as the nose, 
ears and throat.
The medical specialist, after a thorough exam
ination of every member of the group, stated: 
fiIt is my opinion that the ears, nose, throat and 
accessory organs of all participating subjects ex
amined by me were not adversely affected in the 
six-months period by smoking the cigarettes 
provided. 
four I.D. CARD Means
1 cha mp On Jewelryi D ah hoo Watch Repairs
TIME SHOP
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077
QNFJuo ljwCDw Yu lu#DDc subVA group of people from various walks of life 
was organized to smoke only Chesterfields. For six 
months this group of men and women smoked their 
normal amount of Chesterfields  10 to 40 a day. 
45% of the group have smoked Chesterfields con
tinually from one to thirty years for an average of 
10 years each.
At the beginning and at the end of the sixmonths period each smoker was given a thorough
f CONTAINS TOBACCOS > 
OF BETTER QUALITY & 
HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY 
. OTHER KING-SIZE V 
V CIGARETTE S
ASK YOUR DEALER 
FOR CHESTERFIELDEITHER WAY YOU 
LIKE EMRoyal Portable hold* theofficial World' 
Portable Speed Championthip a* hewn 
hi the current World' almanae.
n** it Here*
Terms at low as $|.25 Weekly
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue AT 1-8320 SUPPLIES  
REPAIRS  RENTALS
tieotrr  Movie sTBShhT ca
MDTeZF!ou ta,Hb *4..0AA l Kinds MLowCCL vLe
