Graduate 
Examines 
Life At Tech 
See Page 5
Tartans 
Win 
Sixth StraightSee Page 7
VOL. 48No. 7CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYWED., NOV. 2, 1954
Campus Readies For Homecoming
Middle States New Evaluation 
Report Accrdits Carnegie
In an address to the iaculty, Dr. J. C. Warner announced that 
Carnegie Tech had been accredited by the Middle States Asocition of Colleges and Secondary Schools.
Last November, Tech was visited by a committee of 32 mem
bers whose purpose was to eval-* ~
Student Council 
Passes All-School 
Events Proposal
By James J. Murphy
purpose
uate Carnegie Tech in order to 
determine whether it should be a 
member of the Middle States As
sociation of Colleges and Second
ary Schools. This committee was 
accompanied by representatives of 
various professional organizations.
The committees evaluation con
cerned the school as a whole, in
cluding all phases of its program, 
instructional and noninstructional, 
and was conceived in terms of the 
institutional objectives, giving par
ticular attention to the manner 
in which these objectives are 
started, the capacity, present or 
latent, for fulfilling them, and the 
success with which they are ful
filled.
Before the committee arrived, 
the school had to fill out extensive 
questionnaires concerning all 
phases of its activities. When the 
committee arrived it was split into 
small groups with each group 
delegated a specific job. As an ex
ample, one group studied the ad
ministration and the value of its 
effectiveness while another group 
did the same thing with the ath
letic department.
Lor? Report Prepared
After the three day visit on 
campus, the committee retired to 
make its report. This report, 
which runs 101 pages, is divided 
into two parts. One concerns the 
school in general.. and the other, 
departments in particular. Dr. 
Warner was reporting on the first 
aspect of the report. The individ
ual department heads will receive 
the reports concerning them 
through regular administration 
channels.
The value of such a report to 
[Continued on page 12] *
Robert Livingston 
Named Director 
Of Scotch 9n Soda
To the student body Spring Car
nival and the 1955 Scotch n Soda 
presentation is but a dot on a far 
flung horizon. To Bob Livingston, 
the director for the coming year, 
thic years production is already 
very much a reality. He envisions 
a fresh show fully utilizing the 
many new innovations in musical 
comedy.
Bob is a senior directing majpr 
in the drama department. His 
Varied campus activities include 
Delta Skull, Scimitar, Kiltie Band, 
and Beta Sigma Rho fraternity. He 
has written for the Tartan and 
Scot and entertained at the Deans 
reception and alumni banquet.
On the professional side, Bob 
has been at the Gateway Musical 
Playhouse for the past two sum
mers. Last year in addition to his 
work in the drama department he 
directed a series of five shows at 
the Rodef Shalom Sunday school.
Bob Livingston and Scotch 'n 
Soda are by no means a new com
bination. As a member of the cast 
and last years stage manager he 
has acquired a background funda
mental to the successful operation 
of the club. The combination of 
Bobs fine past record and his win
ning personality are sure to make 
for a great year for Scotch n Soda.
Business transacted at last Wed
nesdays Council meeting in the 
Carnegie Union included the ap
proval of Scabbard and Blades so
cial budget for the Military. Ball 
which will be held December 11, 
and the censure of the Varsity C 
Club for that groups tardiness in 
submitting an approvable budget 
for the C Club Dance.
In addition, the 13-3 quorumless 
Council vote of October 20 to re
strict fraternity and sorority social 
events on-the nights of all-school 
functions met a serious block when 
brought up for the approval of the 
entire Student Council. After a 
lengthy discussion, the student 
government voted to strike the re
strictive clause from the minutes, 
thus reversing Councils original 
stand.
Although Council seemed to feel 
that the serving of refreshments 
by fraternities on the nights of all
school events did not constitute 
competition to these functions, the 
members were also of the opinion 
that the employment of combos 
during all-school functions was 
definitely detrimental to the suc
cess of these events. Council con
sequently passed a motion prohib
iting the use of combos on the 
night of November 6, 1954.
Motion Passed
In further developments toward 
the end of last Wednesdays meet
ing, Mr. Ed Davis proposed a mo
tion amending the original fraternity-sorority restrictive motion to 
read, except on the nights
of Spring Carnival and Homecom
ing. The amended version was 
promptly passed.
If you have had as much trou
ble as this reporter in following 
the approval, disapproval, and 
amending of this restrictive mo
tion, it may be well to summarize 
the status quo: 1) Fraternities are 
not permitted to hire combos on 
the night of November 6. 2) Fra
ternities and rororities are not per
mitted a) to serve refreshments 
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 
11:00 p.m. or b) fine their members 
for nonattendance at meetings held 
during these hours on the night of 
an all-school function with the ex
ception of Spring Carnival and 
Homecoming.EditorializingIf this reporter may be per
mitted the luxury of editorializing 
[Continued on page 10]
Free Dance
Citcom Clan will sponsor a 
free record hop on Friday 
evening, November 5, immedi
ately following the pep rally.
The dance will be held in 
the womens gym which Will 
be decorated for the occasion, 
and refreshments will be sold.
The entire student body Is 
invited.
PhySICS
Fritz Zemike, professor of 
theoretical physics at the Uni
versity of Groningen, Holland, 
will speak on How Phase 
Contact Was Discovered on 
Thursday, November 4, at 3:30 
p.m. in the lecture room of the 
Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration.
Professor Zernike received a 
Nobel prize in recognition of 
his discovery and development 
of phase contrast microscopy, 
which opened new fields in 
physics of solids, biology, 
chemistry, and metallurgy.
Carnegie Day Starts 
Homecoming Weekend
Friday will mark the opening of the 1954 Homecoming 
weekend on the Carnegie Tech campus. The holiday, which 
will celebrate Techs fifty-fourth anniversary, is sponsored 
by Omicron, Delta Kappa and Mortar Board, the senior honor~7~z . _ ~  ?aries on campus. It promisesAlumni 1 o Keceive 
Merit And Service 
Awards At Lunch
Carnegie Day 
Program Set
Carnegie Day for the  1954 
Homecoming weekend will be held 
on Friday, November 5, at 12:30 
p.m. in the mens gym.
The Kiltie Band and Cameron 
Choir will perform, and calls to 
honoraries will be made by Alpha 
Phi Omega, Omicron Delta Kappa, 
Phi Kappa Phi. Phi Mu Alpha 
Sinfonia, Tau Beta Pi, and Clay
more Clan.
Various awards will be given, 
including the fraternity and soro
rity scholarship cups, freshman 
traditions award, Mortar Board 
award, and Tau Beta Pi freshman 
award.
The queen and her attendants 
will be escorted to the platform 
by the Kiltie Pipers and they will 
pass through the crossed swords of 
Scabbard and Blade. The queen 
will then be crowned by President 
Warner.
Mr. Dale Strick will congratulate 
the scholars and honor students, 
and Delta Skull, junior mens hon
orary, will present the bronze class 
plate for the floor of Administra
tion Hall to the class of 55.
Frederick Bloom, president of 
the Alumni Association, will greet 
alumni.
Judges9 Personnel 
Named For Year's 
Varsity Varieties
Bill McDonald, a student in the 
Fine Arts College, will serve 
as stage manager for this years 
Varsity Varieties, to be present
ed at Morewood Gardens on No
vember 5, at 2:30 p.m.
Varsity Varieties, an annual 
feature of Homecoming weekend, 
will be given by the seven sorori
ties on campus. The titles of the 
skits, all based on the theme of 
comic strip characters, will not 
be announced until 2:30 in the 
afternoon of November 5. Original 
parodies and dances will be in
cluded in the individual skits, 
which will be judged by Dr. A. 
Fred Sochatoff, Dr. Norman 
_Dawes, and Mrs. McCreary, all 
members of the Carnegie Tech 
faculty.
Acting as general chairman is 
Mildred Magiira, assisted by cochairmen Sarah Hailperin and 
Barbara Hall. John Conboy of the 
drama department will serve as 
master of ceremonies.
The 1954 Homecoming weekend 
will find many alumni back on 
the Tech campus sharing in festi
vities which have been planned by 
the undergraduates and the 
Carnegie Alumni Federation. Fred 
S. Bloom, 21, president of the 
federation and John L. Elliott, 
10, executive secretary are in 
charge of preparations for the 
alumni functions.
A highlight of the weekend will 
be the presentation of Alumni 
Merit and Service Awards at the 
Homecoming Luncheon in the 
Gymnasium Saturday. Since 1950 
the alumni have recognized the 
distinctive achievement of Car
negie Tech graduates by making 
these awards during the Home
coming weekend.
This year the six merit awards 
will be presented to Virgil David 
Cantini, 46, for accomplishment 
#n the field of fine arts; Hannah 
Katherine Eastman, 28, merchan
dising; Thomas Newell Greggs, 
24, practice of law; Frances 
Xavier Keally, 12, architecture; 
Karl Louis Konnerth, 18, mine 
engineering and Theodore Silkman Repplier, 23, advertising.
Service Awards
The service awards, which are 
given for outstanding service to 
the school, will go to Eugene 
Dowling, 09, William Finkel, 13, 
John Asdale Hagan, 28, Irene 
Quinn Harnack, 09, Dorothy 
Turkle MacFadden, 21, and John 
Myers Orr, 15.
The 1953-54 Alumni Fund of 
$110,415.67 will be presented to 
Dr. John Warner at the Alumni 
Breakfast and Council Meeting 
in the Morewood Gardens Dormi
tory Saturday morning. A large 
portion of this contribution will 
be used for alumni scholarships
The graduates will begin their 
three days of fun and reminiscing 
with the Varsity Clan cocktail 
party ,and dinner at the Park 
Schenley Hotel Thursday, eve 
ning. The Clan party will honor 
the 1926 football team and two 
All-Americans, Lloyd Yoder and 
Howard Harpster, Guest speak 
ers will be Harry Stuhldreher 
and Bob Waddell.
Womens Activities
The Pitsburgh Womens Clan 
will entertain at a reception and 
tea at Carnegie Union Friday 
afternoon. Following this will be 
a Homecoming party and Smorg
asbord Dinner at the Hotel Webs
ter Hall, Jeanne Allen, John 
Conboy, John Kestner, Teena 
[Continued on page 12]
Insurance
Insurance policies are avail
able in the Registrars Office, 
AH 166. Any student interest
ed should stop in the office as 
soon as possible.
aries on campus, 
to, be one of the best in re
cent years.
The program will officially 
get under way at 12:30 p.m. on 
Friday when the traditional Car
negie Day exercises will take 
place in the Gym. At this time 
President Warner will crown the 
freshman Homesoming queen who 
was selected by an all-school vote 
of the male students yesterday.
Varsity Varities will hold the 
splotlight Friday afternoon. On 
Friday night a roaring bondre 
will be built in the Tech bowl for 
a pep-rally before the game with 
Washington and Jefferson on Sat
urday.
Two weeks ago little cards with 
an F printed on them made their 
appearance on the Tech campus. 
By the time that practically every
one had come to the conclusion 
that they stood for Funnies, new 
cards, with four Fs printed on 
them, appeared last week.
Amid the confusion that this 
second publicity stunt caused could 
be heard voices complaining that 
a theme for this years Homecom
ing had not been announced. This 
fact, it seemed, was a serious omis
sion. The Homecoming committee, 
however, has finally seen it fit to 
reveal the themeand the answer 
to the mystery. This years theme 
is F F F FFunnies For FiftyFour!
The theme will, of course, be 
carried out in various ways during 
the weekend. The fraternity dis
plays and varsity varieties will 
both be based on c6mic strips; and 
although the gym is to be decor
ated differently for this years 
dance, the decorations will be in 
accordance with the theme.
This year, as last year, the or
chestras of Baron Elliot and Ben
ny Benack will provide the music 
for the Saturday night dance. 
Baron Elliot will playy smooth, 
danceable music in the mens gym, 
and Benny Benack will play hot 
jazz in Thistle Hall.
The dance, which will be from
9 to 1, will be semi-formal. Cock
tail dresses or formal and busi
ness suits will be appropriate, and 
there are to be no flowers.
Duq uesne Radio 
Station, WDUQ, 
Wants Students
Attention all students interested 
in appearing on radio! Duquesne 
University radio station, WDUQ, 
is offering you this opportunity 
with their new program, Collegi
ate Revue.
Collegiate Revue is a fifteen 
minute weekly program which 
will feature talent of all varieties, 
such as singers as soloists and in 
groups, musicians, and small dra
ma groups. Shows will be pre
sented live
All local colleges are asked to 
participate; Carnegie Tech, Pitt, 
Mount Mercy, P.C.W., and Du
quesne.
Anyone interested is urged to 
call Duquesne University, radio 
station, WDUQ, Grant 1-4365.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 3, 1954
Homecoming Days Actually 
Fairly New at Carnegie Tech
By Sally Day
At this time of year, all thoughts are turned toward Homecoming; but why not turn the clock 
back and see what the Techites were doing at past homecomings?
The year 1926 saw the first homecoming of Carnegie Tech, and it was*very successful. How
ever, this and other homecomings up until 1946 were primarily for the alumni, and did not include
______i. __i- _____+ ?_______________________________________________________c______________________________________________
Pep Rally Scheduled 
For This Friday Night
The biggest and best pep-rally in the history of Carnegie Tech 
is what has been promised for this Friday night. It will be prepara
tion for the game with Washington and Jefferson on Saturday after
noon. ?------------------------------------------------------
The festivities are slated to
much student participation. In 
that year, the students became 
more active and, after a lull of 
three years, because of the war, 
made the homecoming of 1946 a 
huge event. The traditional foot
ball game was with Washington 
& Jefferson (sounds familiar) 
that afternoon, and a dance was j 
held in the evening: One of the 
outstanding events was the fra- j 
ternity display contest in which 
Beta,Sigma Rho copped first place 
with its Spirit of :46 display, j 
Alpha Tau Omega and Theta Xi i 
came in second and third re
spectively.
Scot Makes Debut
The Techites, in 1943, obtained i 
the drums- and band of Gene |
Krupa for the Homecoming Dance, j 
which followed. the game with ;
Franklin and Marshall. This year 1 
the Kappa Sigs outdid themselves 
in a display which included an Shown above is what started all the hectic days of Homecom- animated farmer milking a cow ingf The picture was tokcn on April 3> 1905 at the breaking
andpioca.ming, m Pu OI j ceremonies for Administration Hall. The half finished building inTech._ . ,, x . the background is Carnegie Institute.The following year at homecom- j_______________________________________
ing, the Scot magazine made its 
debut. Also, in 1949, Carnegie 
Day was dropped from the sched
ule, and many of its features, such 
as awards and coronation of the 
queen, were incorporated into the 
Fall weekend. On Saturday night, 
a semi-formal dance tfas held at 
which Ray McKinley's band, the 
most versatile band in the land, 
according to the Tartan of that 
year, was the featured entertain
ment.
Lehigh Wins
A hospital train full of ban
daged and bruised Lehigh play
ers won first prize for the Sigma 
Nus in the display contest, while 
thg ATOs placed second. The 
one sad note of the weekend was 
the defeat handed to Tech by Le
high.
In 1951 Allegheny came to 
Forbes Field with the hope of up
setting the Tech team, but was 
given a 39-0 defeat. Elliot Law
rence and his band played at the 
victory dance held on Saturday 
night. In the fraternity displays, 
the PiKAs came out on top, 
with ATO and DU following.
Tech played host to Case at the 
Homecoming of 1952, and won 
the contest. Baron Elliots Band 
provided the music at the Satur
day night dance, at which the 
Kappa Sigs were awardtd first 
prize for their display. It was a 
gigantic Case head with Tech 
men pulling its teeth, saying.
Lets all pull together.
Themes Listed
Finally, in our backward glanc
ing, we come to last year. The 
theme was the Roaring Twenties 
and Fifty-three Skidoo was the 
name given to the whole week
end. Unfortunately, Geneva edged 
the Tech team out of a victory 
by one point. However, the bands 
of Baron Eliot and Benny Be
nack added a bright note at the 
dance.
Another feature was added to 
the annual weekend. It was 
Varsity Varieties, put on by the 
various sororities, and it proved 
very successful. The ATOs led 
the fraternity houses with the 
best display, with SAEs and DUs 
placing second and third.
As we travel back to the pres
ent we wonder what the Home
coming of 1954 will produce, al
though with such a background, 
we need have no fears for the 
future.
Organizations
All organizations, honorar
ies, fraternities and publica
tions are requested to submit a 
list of officers and staff mem
bers to the Dean of Mens of
fice as soon as possible.
are
start at 7:00 p.m. when the band 
and cheerleaders will proceed 
across the cut to Morewood Gar
dens. At Morewood the procession 
will stop and the cheerleaders will 
lead cheers and songs to get the 
students out of the dorm. It will 
then proceed up Forbes street and 
down into the Tech Bowl.
Each fraternity pledge has been 
requested to bring a torch and 
carry it in the procession. A roar
ing bondfire will be built- in the 
Bowl for the occasion.
Ed Davis will act as master of 
ceremonies. The queen will be 
present with her court and will 
say a few words. Representatives 
of the football team will also be 
present.
The highlignt of the program 
will be the pledge cheer program 
when each pledge class of the 12 
fraternities on campus will give 
an original cheer. Judges have 
been selected and the winning 
cheer will be announced during in
termission at the dance on Satur
day night. The winning pledge class 
will receive a loving cup.
Mary Prezioso and Ed Davis 
are in charge of the pep rally and 
are making all the necessary ar
rangements.
IA Grad School 
Schedule Speaker 
For Neiv Seminar
The Graduate School of Indus
trial Management has schedule^ a 
Graduate Seminar for Wednesday,'* 
November 10, at 8:00 p.m. in the 
SIA Lounge.
The topic of discussion will be 
the concrete problems faced by 
executives in charge of purchasing 
for large companies.
Speaking on this topic, which, in 
the future, may be confronted by 
more than a few G.S.I.A. students, 
will be Mr. Bruce Henderson, vicepresident for purchasing and tralfic 
of Westinghouse. Considered one 
j of Pittsburghs outstanding busi
ness executives, he can deal with 
any problems posed by puzzled 
graduate students and. shows 
promise of enlightening them on 
the difficulties encountered in pur
chasing management.
All interested graduate students 
are invited to attend.
Chem. Department 
Schedule Graduate 
Study Seminars
The seminars and colloquium 
currently operating in the de
partment of chemistry and asso
ciated laboratories are as follows:
Graduate Seminar, GS-174. For
mal seminar required for all 
graduate students. Meets every 
week on Thursday, at 11:30 a.m., 
in Room 1112 EH.
Seminar in Physical Chemistry. 
Informal seminar for graduate 
students interested in physical 
chemistry. Meets every Wednes
day at 4:30 p.m., in Room 3101 
EH.
Seminar in Organic Chemistry. 
Informal seminar for graduate 
students interested in organ ic 
chemistry. Meets every Tuesday 
at 4:30 p.m., in Room 3101 EH.
Seminar in Nuclear Chemistry. 
Informal seminar for all inter
ested in nuclear chemistry. Meets 
every Tuesday at 3:30 p.m., Room 
3102 EH.
Seminar in Theoretical Chem
istry. Informal seminar for all 
interested in theoretical chemis
try. Meets on the second and 
fourth Mondays of each month at 
3:Q0 p.m., in Room 3102 EH.
Petroleum Research Laboratory 
Seminar. Reports on subjects re
lated to the work of the labora
tory. Meets on the fourth Friday 
of each month, at 4:00 p.m., in 
Room 1112 EH.
Chemistry Colloquium. Meets 
on call of the chairman, at times 
convenient for the faculty, re
search staff, and graduate stu
dents, to hear members of the 
faculty and research staff of any 
department of laboratory at CIT 
or any visiting scientist. Will 
usually meet in Room 1112 EH.
Lectures
Dr. Walter J. Reppe, Hop
pers visiting professor of 
chemistry at Tech, will give 
two open lectures at the lec
ture hall of the Carnegie In
stitute.
The first, on earbonylation 
of acetylene, will be on Thurs
day, November 4, at 4 p.m.
Carnegie Day Schedule
John Phillip Sousa 
Barbara A. Hall
Michael I. Glinker 
Frederick S. Bloom
The Kiltie Band
Manhattan Bach 
Mistress of Ceremonies
^  v The Kiltie Symphonic Band
Russian & Ludmila, Overture 
Alumni Message 
Call of Honoraries:
Alpha Phi Omega George C. Vanda
Omicron Delta Kappa John F. Schonder
Phi Kappa Phi Admiral Joseph W. Ludewig
Assoc. Prof. of Metallurgy
The Cameron Choir 
Youll Never Walk Alone Rodgers & Hammerstein
The Gandy Dancers Ball Weston & Howard
Call of Honoraries:
Phi Mu Alpha * Paul E. Weber
Tau Beta Pi Wilson W. Sick
Claymore Clan Nicola Aversa
The Kiltie Symphonic Band 
American Salute ' Morion Gould
Awards and Presentations
Presentation of Senior Class Plague by Delta Skull 
Wesley L. Folsom 
Council of Fraternity Presidents Scholarship Cup 
Richard R. Christensen 
Pittsburgh Panhellenic Association Scholarship Cup 
Mrs. James D. Finley 
President of Womens Panhellenic
Mortar Board Award
Joanne Y. Boyd 
Tau Peta Pi Freshman Award '
Wilson W. Sick 
Scholars and Honor Students
Mr. Dale Strick 
^ Chairman of Committee on Financial Aid
Freshman Traditions Award
Richard T. Aiken 
Presentation of President, Dr. J. C. Warner 
Coronation of the Homecoming Queen:
Coronation Processional 
Crowning of the Queen 
Court Entertainment 
Alma Mater
Official Opening of Homecoming 
Fight for the Glory of Carnegie
The Kiltie Pipers 
President Warner
Homecoming Queen
Study Group 
On UN Begins
Professor Guetzkow, associate 
professor of Industrial Administra
tion and Psychology, is conducting 
a five session study group meetrecorded by the orchestra for 
ing on the United Nations Organ
ization at the downtown YMCA 
at 7:15 p.m. on Mondays.
Sponsored by the Foreign Policy 
Association, the series is designed 
to acquaint citizens with the or
ganization and foundation of the 
U. N. with a view towards char
ter revision in 1955. The group 
seeks neither to dissolve nor 
strengthen the U. N., but to pro
vide an understanding necessary to 
the formation of an intelligent 
opinion on the subject.
Although two of the sessions are 
over any student who wishes to 
join the group is welcome. There 
is a nominal fee of $1.50 to cover 
cost of materials.
Prof. Guetzkow, whose major 
field is industrial organization, be
came interested in the U. N. be
cause, as he says, It has many of 
the characteristics of an industrial 
organization. For the past three 
summers Prof. Guetzkow was a 
research associate at the Woodrow 
Wilson School of Industrial Affairs 
at Princetton.
Physics Seminar 
Planned Thurstlay 
At Saxonburg
A nuclear and high energy 
physics seminar will be held at 
the Nuclear Research Center in 
Saxonsburg on Thursday, Novem
ber 4, at 3:30 p.m.
Mr. John Fetkovich of Tech 
will speak on Experiments on 
the Scatering of High Energy 
Electrons by Nuclei.
A station wagon will leave the 
campus at 12:30 p.m., and any
one planning to attend this semi
nar is requested to sign the sta
tion wagon slip by 11:00 am.
National Teaching 
Examinations Set 
For February 12.
The national teacher examina
tions prepared and administered 
annually by educational testing 
service, will be given at 200 test
ing centers throughout the United 
States on Saturday, February 12, 
1955.
At the one-day testing session, 
a candidate may take the com
mon examinations, which include 
tests in professional information, 
general culture, English expres
sion, and non-verbal reasoning, 
and one or two of nine optional 
examinations designed to demon
strate mastery of subject matter 
to be taught. The college which a 
candidate is attending, or the 
school system in which he is seek
ing employment, will advise him 
if he should take the national 
teacher examinations and which 
of the optional examinations to 
select.
Application forms and a bulle
tin of information describing reg
istration procedure and containing 
sample test questions may be ob
tained from college officials; 
school superintendents, or direct
ly* from the National Teacher Ex
aminations, Educational Testing 
Service, 20 Nassau street, Prince
ton, New Jersey. Completed ap
plications, accompanied by proper 
examination fees, will be accepted 
by the ETS office during Novem
ber and December, and in Janu
ary if received t>efore January 
14, 1955.
T utoring
Following is the T-.u Beta 
Pi tutoring schedule for the 
week of November 1 Mathe
matics S221, Tuesday at 4:30 
in EH 2200. Mathematics S223, 
Tuesday at 4:30 In EH 2122.
There will be no class in 
chemistry S101 because of the 
Homecoming weekend.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 3, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage $
by McDonald('loderickOver The Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
Homecoming is upon us, and the hustle and bustle of display 
building, queen candidates, and parties coupled with CFPs new 
regulations should make this one a dilly.
If festivities proceed true to form, well probably find that:
Confusion will reign on Friday night when the fraternity man 
is identified by his tag which is never there. It is inevitably torn off 
in the middle of the evening in the grand tour down narrow, crowd
ed stairs in an effort to see a basement. The irony of this grand safari 
is the fact that no one particularly cared whether the basement ex
isted two hours before the grand march began.
* * *
Sadness will dwell in some uninformed freshmans heart when 
he discovers that a mum is a flower and not a free sample of deoderant.
Theodore Lettwin 
First Symphony 
Soloist Of Season
The first soloist to appear with 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orches
tra this season will be the bril
liant young American pianist, 
Theodore Lettvin, who was re
ceived with unanimous acclaim 
on his first Pittsburgh appear
ance two seasons ago.
He will be heard at the Sym
phonys second pair of concerts, 
November 5-7, in the Bach Piano 
Concerto No. 5 in F minor and 
Richard Strauss Burleske for
Inevitably, the girls who were not elected her majesty or to 
the queen's court ivill shed a few trite, salty tears and sobbingly say, 
Oh well, I really didnt want to be queen anyhow.
The school will ask the alumni for money, Campus Chest will 
continue to ask for money, and all the guys will write home and 
ask for money.
Girls will be pinned, and couples that have been going steady 
will find they cant stand each other.
Some young lass will be shocked when she find that the guy 
shes been dating didn't ask her to Homecoming because hes de
cided to bring his fianncee down.
And guys that have fallen for their date will stop in to see 
H her at Morewoods open house only to be introduced to the guy 
in the army that shes been writing to for the past three years. He 
just happened to get a leave.
Display chairmans will rest in peace if they won, and wont 
rest at all if they lost. We were robbed and The dirty lousy soand-sos sent a man around with the judges will echo through the
houses.
gained international honor as a 
laureate with an attendant com
mand performance before a spell
bound queen.
Nathan Cordon, back as princi
pal violist after 15 years with 
the NBC Symphony under Tos
canini, will be heard as soloist in 
Berlioz Harold in Italy Sym
phony, and the program will be 
concluded with three polkas by 
Johann Strauss: 'Amen, for the 
Johann Strauss: Annan, Cham
pagne, and Thunder and Light
ning. These polkas have been 
recorded by the Orchestra for 
Capitol Records.
Theodore Lettvin
With Pittsburgh Symphony
piano and orchestra. The Bach 
Concerto will be heard here for 
the first time in these concerts, 
while the Strauss Burleske was 
last performed by the late Wil
liam Kapell in 1948.
Lettvin made his orchestral 
bow with the Chicago Symphony 
at the age of twelve. At 15 he won 
a scholarship to the Curtis Insti
tute of Music in Philadelphia, 
where he studied for the follow
ing seven years with the renown
ed artist, Rudolf Serkin.
The young Chicagoan has since 
been the recipient of many na
tional awards, among them the 
Naumburg and Michaels Memor
ial awards. In the summer of 
1952 he entered the Queen Eliza
beth of Belgium international 
music competition, the worlds 
foremsst piano concert. There he
Pledges will dread the next pledge meeting, and sororities will 
be sadened when they find their Thespian endeavors werent as 
good as the Tri-Nus.
Couples will go to the dance and wont dance, couples wont 
go to the dance, and couples wont be in any condition to dance.
Pledges will dread the next pledge meeting, and sororities will 
be saddened when they find their Thespian endeavors werent as good 
as the Tri-Nus.
All in all, Sunday will find everyone quite dead. Mondays new 
d-awn will bring new hope, a comparison of dates by the girls, and a 
bragging by the guys of their capacity (liquid and otherwise). A tra
dition not to be taken lightly, Homecoming is a chance to blow off 
steam and have a good time. Everyone will undoubtedly do this with 
the idea of making this years the greatest ever. Fifteen rahs for the 
Bachanalian holiday.
LOW
FARE
Faculty attention! Florida College at Lakeland authorizes an 
accredited course called Fishing. The course teaches exactly that; 
how to fish. This along with all the other tales weve heard about 
Florida schools curriculae brings a question to mind. Why do kids 
come to Carnegie Tech? * * *
Little quickies . . . Comments on Christian Diors fashion of flat
tening bosoms and accenting hips; Debbie Reynolds pouts. Flat girls 
will be left flat. (She has reason to pout?) Marlon Brando says, Ac
centing a womans hips is like putting falsies on a cow.
Opening night of Lysistrata was a great event though the plot is far 
fetched. Hats off to Jeanne Dickinson and her gang for a job well 
done . . . Skibo is starting to look like its old self again with everyone 
playing bridge there in the afternoon. This proves the general rule 
that ever one has gcods intentions at the beginning the semester . . . 
The little open letter blast by the C-Club towards the fraternities who 
held costume parties the night of the C-Club dance is having Us ef
fect.
EASY 
CHAIR
Homecoming Program
Thursday, November 4
* 8:00 p.m.Varsity Clan Cocktail Party and Dinner ....
...................................... Park Schenley Restaurant
Friday, November 5
* 9:00 a.m.Registration for alumni ............. Carnegie Union
12:30 p.m.Carnegie Day exercises ...................... Gymnasium
2:30 p.m.Varsity Varieties.....................................................
..............,. Morewood Gardens Recreation Room
* 4:00 p.m.Homecoming Reception and Tea.. Carnegie Union
* 6:00 p.m.Homecoming Party ................ Hotel Webster Hall
6:00 p.m.Judging of fraternity displays begins
6:45 p.m.Parade begins front of Fine Arts Building 
7:00 p.m.Pep RallyTech Bowl 
8:30 p.m.Open House at all fraternities 
Saturday, November 6
* 9:00 a.m.Registration continues at Carnegie Union
* 9:00 a.m.Alumni Breakfast and Alumni Council Meeting
..................Morewood Gardens Dormitory Cafeteria
*12:00 p.m.Homecoming Luncheon .............................Gymnasium
2:00 p.m.Football Game, Carnegie vs. Washington and Jef
ferson  ....... Forbes Field
* 4:30 p.m.Cocktail and Social Hour..............Hotel Schenley
* 6:30 p.m.Reunion Dinners
9:00 p.m.Homecoming Dance, Baron Elliot and Benny
Benack Orchestras.......................................Gymnasium
*11:00 p.m.Intermission at Homecoming Dance, Awards 
Sunday, November 7 
*2:00 to 4:00 p.m.Open House at Morewood Gardens 
*Alumni Functions
StfRNeWji'Silvered-Tip" writes 
the way you do . * . fine, 
medium or broad with
out changing points. Re* 
fills available in blue, red, j 
green or black ink. Get a | 
Paper-Mate Pen today/ j
Quickly, Comfortably, Dependably
by GREYHOUND
Akron, Ohio , .. 
Baltimore, Md. 
Buffalo, N. Y. . 
Canton, Ohio . 
Cleveland, O. . 
Columbus, O. . 
Chicago, III. .. 
Detroit, Mich. .
Erie, Pa..............
Gettysburg, Pa, 
Harrisburg, Pa.
Indianapolis, Ind. ...
Louisville, Ky..............
Mansfield, Ohio,
New York City.........
Norfolk, Va. .......
Philadelphia, Pa. ... 
Parkersburg, W. Va..
St. Louis, Mo..............
Washington, D. C. 
Youngstown, Ohio .. 
Winston Salem, N. C
 Bankers approve
 Ink can't smear 
or transfer
 Cant leak
SHvered-Tip 
refills... 49t
MMtH
Liberty Avenue at Grain StreetPittsburgh 22, P,

---------------------------------------------------

Put 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November i, 154
EditorialEvaluation Report
Just about a year ago now 32 men paid a visit to Carnegie 
Tech.. But these men were not just visitors in the ordinary 
sense of the word; they were a committee sent here by the 
Middle Atlantic Association of Colleges and Secondary 
Schools to evaluate all phases of Techs operations. For three 
days these men stayed, watching and analyzing all they ob
served. Today, nearly a year later, the results of this com
mittees work are being released in part to the student body. 
On page one of this issue of the Tartan you will find a news 
story condensing the portions of the report released to the 
faculty and student body m general.
As most of us suspected all along, Carnegie Tech was ac
credited by the examining men. From what we have seen of 
the report Tech was given a pretty clean bill of health. How
ever, as most of us also suspected, there were some things 
about the school for which the accrediting group did not par
ticularly care. But it is not the list of these things which 
should concern us as much as the actions which the adminis
tration is planning to take with regard to these matters.
In our opinion the administration is taking an excellent 
attitude toward the whole report. Certainly recommendations 
by a group of accreditors could not be long ignored, but the 
promptness with which corrective measures have been started 
in some cases amazes us. In other cases, needs as set forth in 
the report had been recognized for some time by the school 
and were even then in the planning stages and are now in the 
final stages of completion. A few examples will be cited be
low to illustrate the points which we have just made.
One of the aspects of our school which the accreditors 
thought was especially bad was our extracurricular activities 
program. They felt that the entire program lacked integra
tion with the educational program and provided poor oppor
tunities for student self-government or leadership training. 
They also deplored the lack of a single student governing
WRCT 
SCHEDULE
Tuesday
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Serenade in Blue 
7:30Radio Federation 
8:00The Masters Per
form 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off
Wednesday 
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Campus Hilights 
7:30Montovani 
8:00Musical History 
9:45Democratic Cam
paign
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off 
Thursday 
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Serenade in Blue 
7:30Radio Federation 
8:00Ye Olde Curiosity 
Shoppe 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off 
Friday 
7r00Sign on, News
7:15Navy Star Time 
7:30Radio Federation 
8:30Proudly We Hail 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05TGIF Club 
11:55Sign Off 
Sunday 
1:45Sign on, News 
2:00WRCT Symphony 
Hour 
3:00Sunday Pops 
Concert 
5:30Freelance 
6:00News
6:05Album of Favor
ites
7:00Penthouse Seren
ade 
8:00News 
8:05Concert Hall 
11:00News11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off 
Monday 
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Campus Hilights 
7:30Radio Federation 
8:30French Master - 
works 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off
To all the overworked students in our listening 
audience, one question: Did you ever try to study 
by music? If so, youll be glad to hear about the 
Career Hour, WRCT*s program of music for study. 
And if you're not a devotee of study music, you 
soon will be if you will just give it a try. In fact, 
it is a proven psychological fact that the relaxing 
brand of classics and semiclassics that you will hearbody which they felt would be far superior to our present
arrangement consisting of Student Council, Dorm Council, i on Career Hovs is very conducive to all kinds of
and the Council of Fraternitv Presidents. ! menta* activity. It really makes thinking a lot, i easier, if not a pleasure.Already the administration has taken steps to try to cor- j . .J c " j Study music is not the only feature of the Careerrect this fault with our school. In fact, before the repoit was Hour either. Sponsored by Career Publications in 
even realesed to the faculty or to the students, the Bureau of cooperation with CITs Placement Bureau, this proMeasurement and Guidance had set up both a faculty and a gram performs a real service in giving resumes of 
student committee to studv the problem and to make recom- *reer opportunities awaiting upperclassmen in busmendations to the administration. Similarly the office of Co- industr? iob *, , all over the country are offered to those who qual-ordinator of Religious Activities was established to fill anotnei g0 you are interested in securing a good 
need which the committee found during their visit here. position m business or industry in the near future,
Included in the accreditors report also was a list of sev- just keep your radio dial turned to 670 at 9:00 p.m. 
eral improvements and additions which they felt should be Monday through Friday for Techs listening post
added to the Carnegie Tech physical plant. Included in these ^or P'Portunities-, .  tv.  ___: Due to lack of student participation, the twicewere a new student union, library, new residences for male ^ Qf s(a(jon WRCT ,.Campus m.
students, and better outdoor recreational facilities. As a le- gjits/* will be dropped from the broadcast schedsult of the foresight of the administration the new mens dorm ute after October 31. The program was intended as 
is near completion and new fraternity housing is well into the * a source of intramural scores and news, as well as 
planning stages. The remainder of these needs are under care
ful study by the administration and long-range plans are be
ing formulated to fill them.
All in all, the reports which we saw indicated a good rat
ing for the school. But even more important, where needs 
were found the administration seems to be acting with un
usual and gratifying speed to take steps of correction. To us ^
this indicates a healthy administrative policy. We hope that Letters 
the same prompt and efficient action will be taken with re-! 
spect to other recommendations which were not released to 
the students or to the faculty as a whole at this time. Pri- Editor, the Tartan: 
marv among these, of course, will be recommendations to A large number of those who attended Open
soecific deDartments in the school These were wiselv with- House were high scho1 students and their parents, specinc departments in tne scnooi. inese were wiseiy wu These people came because of the interest and efheld from publication and were instead sent to the individual fart of our students> Not only did they visit their 
departments involved. We hope that they do not get lost or former high schools and extend personal invita 
forgotten there. j tions, but acted as guides and hosts during the
W. W. S. evening. The Admissions Office wishes to thank
- ____________________________________________________________________ all of the students who participated and helped to
make the evening most successful.
J. M. Daniels
any other news from any campus social or scholastic organization. If in the future, a demand for such 
a program appears, it will be reinstated in the 
schedule, and until such time the station will 
broadcast such news on a limited basis only, at 
times to be decided upon by the program department, and on advance notice only.
Well Done!
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, * Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hoars MUseum 3-2312, for advertising and subscription rates 
call MUseum 2-3990 Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa. * *
Editor-in-Chief .........................................................................................................Paul Carm chael
Executive Editor ................................................................................................................Wilson Sick
BiiinrM Manager ................. ................. ............................ .............................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor ...................................'..........................................................................Jo Forsythe
News Editor ...............................................................June Sochatoff
Sports Editor  ............................................ ...............................Lenny Feldman
Entered as second class matter on October 4. 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate 
of postage provided for ia the act of February 28. 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
p ,i b i  7 her* representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions W.10 
per year.
Pep-Rally
Editor, the Tartan:
This Friday night will see the second peprally of the year. It will be in preparation for the 
game with Washington and Jefferson on Saturday 
afternoon. Usually these affairs are not very well 
attended. This may be due to a variety of reasons. 
But no matter what reasons are advanced the lack 
of crowd can not be explained by them.
The -cheerleaders and the pep-rally committee 
of Student Council have worked hard to make this 
pep-rally the best the campus has seen for some 
time. The Kiltie Band and the football team will 
be there.
All that anyone is asking is that you show up. 
It is assured that once you do you will have a 
good time.
Pepper.
The Observer
A POINTED PARABLE
The year 2000 had dawned one January 1 with 
a modesty belieing its eventfulness. Two hundred 
million Americans would not long forget the year 
2000.
Leisure time, of course, had provoked the 
greatest social problems. With the average worker 
spending little more then 93 minutes a day follow
ing professional dictates, twenty-two-and-a-half 
leisure hours remainded to confound his resource
fulness.
The sensations characterizing commonplace 
pastimes had become quite ineffective through us
age, and several score millions had understandably 
turned to the rarer and more sensational pastimes 
murder and arson proving most popular at the 
time. Turmoil could not quite adequately de
scribe the social scene. And then G. W. On blun
dered into greatness.
The Great Man was a little fellow, happily blue
eyed and psychotic. Ons search for profitable 
use of his leisure time had netted him a fabulous 
bonanza. He had simply fashioned for himself a 
solid plastic cone, which when inverted, could be 
spun effortlessly by the hour on the magnetic floor 
of a space frame. As a matter of course, Ons ob
vious contentment with his invention attracted 
the envious attention of his local sensationallyfrustrated citizenry, and as a result, roughly hewn 
plastic cones began appearing throughout the elec
tronic gamerooms of the city. So popular ,in fact, 
became the pastime that 20 international concerns 
undertook cone production on an international 
scale, some even assigning design problems to the 
Princeton Institute for Advanced Study.
Discovery, accompanied by useful application, 
naturally bears the rich fruits of improvement. 
So it was that the plastic cones came into their 
ownan OM-nipresent plaything providing day
long entertainment for two hundred million grate
ful Americans. With extensive usage came cor
respondingly extensive improvements. Certain de
signs spinning fast enough, for instance, could pro
duce heat, light, and sound waves capable of hu
man perception. No practical uses for the cones 
could be discovered, remember, but their capri
cious symphonic whirrings and kaleidoscopic color 
emissions enchanted a spinning nation. Unfortu
nately, but inevitably, science postulated terror in
to the new pastime.
Cones became heavier; they became larger; the 
toys rotated at such high velocities (10,000 rps) 
that life and property in their paths suffered milli
second disintegration. With these ultimates in im
provement came a distressed population no longer 
sensitive to the subtle thrills of the cones, and in
deed the subtle thrills of the cones were no longer 
to be had. For the massive (1000 tons) playthings 
emitted wave motions productive of nothing but 
paint. Then, reasonably enough, the old favorites 
of murder and arson increased in popularity once 
again, with the powerful cones granting delight
ful new possibilities in their quarters of the popu
lation could rest assured that a mercuric cone 
would not come hurtling into their homes and 
families at night, bringing instant destruction to 
all. Times were OM-inous. The people recog
nized a need for control of the Nations an-OMalies.
But a despairing nation suddenly gained mir
aculous relief from its chaos. An unheralded seg
ment of the population -volunteered assistancea 
strange group uncannily but thoroughly trained in 
the control of spinning cones!! Unbelievable!!! 
Within weeks cone destruction had virtually ceas
ed, and once more the populace enjoyed the subtle, 
innocuous thrills of gently whirring gameroomc.ones. A grateful Nation gave thanks for their 
delivery. from almost certain destruction.
Two hundred million leisure souls paid deep 
homage to the spirit of thte 20th Century, from 
whence had sprung the Conquerors of the Cones, 
the OMniscient liberatiors miraculously skilled in 
the almost forgotten arts of top management.
A campus is a culture in a nutshell. Observe 
it. What happens on our campus, happens in out 
Nation. But here it happens faster.
Letter Lettered
Editor, the Tartan
Regarding the third paragraph of Joanne Cerwins letter which appeared in the October 26 edi
tion of the Carnegie Tartan, waoww!
Sincerely yours, 
Overwhelmed

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 3, 1954CARNEGIE TARTAN Page I
Recent Graduate Reviews School Life
Editors Note: The letter below was received last week from Mr. | sider what might happen if the, 
Ove Andersen who graduated last year in the department of print
ing management. Mr. Andersen is a native of Norway and has return
ed to his country. It is well worth considering how people of other 
countries view our educational system.
When leaving college, I am sure all students have several more 
or less good ideas they would like the schooland their fellow 
studntsto know. All too often, however, these comments get lost 
in the escstasy of being out at last, and a feeling of Why should I
care? I am through anyway. ?:------------- --------------------------
This, I feel, is bad, as the students
up on leaving will almost cer
tainly have accumulaed certain 
gripes or sore sports that they 
would like to get off their chests, 
and it might conceivably do the 
administration some good, too.
I understand that in progres
sive companies they often con
duct so - called exit interviews, 
where the employees that are 
leaving not only get a chance to 
air their gripes, but they are ask
ed if they think something is 
wrong. This seems to indicate 
that such exit interviews are de
sirable, and I think the situation 
is somewhat similar to the one 
that exists here.
Some Comments Heard
I know that this year some of 
the seniorsand other students 
did get a chance to express them
selves to the administration about 
these things; I was one of them 
myself. It is, however my im
pression that this was not done 
to any great extent, although I 
may be wrong in this. I was told 
at the time, however, that a com
mittee was established to look 
into these things, which committe should have a report made out 
by Christmas. I took the oppor
tunity to state some of the things 
I thought could be looked into, 
and also some things I knew other 
students were talking about.
The reason for my writing this 
article, then, is to emphasize what 
I said then, maybe to add some 
points I have thought ox since, 
and to bring the whole thing out 
in the open. I have not seen many 
instance where criticisms of the 
administration have led to tan
gible resultsremembering the 
Skibo case last spring, for in
stance. It is my hope that this 
time, it will.of as more or less lunatical. I wish 
merely to point out here at the be
ginning that my background is 
radically different from most stu
dents, and that I therefore dif
ferent experiences available for 
comparison.
Criticisms of Classes
The first thing that struck me 
when I came to Tech, was the 
way the whole schol was runI 
am thinking of the classes, where 
in many cases, if not allyou are 
forced to attend a certain num
ber of classes in order to pass the 
course. On the other hand, in 
many courses the rule sems to be 
that if the student is there at all 
clases and hands in all his work, 
lie will pass the course, regardless 
of the quality of the work. I re
member one professor even made 
us stand up when answering 
questions. And then the discus
sion about a cut system in the 
Tartan and oraly. Should three 
cuts a semester be allowed?
The same attitude is dominat
ing when it comes to the social 
affairs too, although here it be
comes even more void of sound 
reasoning. Girls have curfew the 
whole schol year, and in all years, 
boys have none. Parties are not 
allowed unless there are two cou
ples of chaperones present,
European Differences
As is probably known to most, 
the universities and colleges in 
Europe do not have these kinds 
of restrictions on the students. 
The students are regarded as peo
ple who are old enough to take 
care of themselves, and rightly 
so. In a certain course, there will 
usually be lectures schedules, and 
a final exam. There may also be 
work to be handed in at the end, 
done so that if the work is not 
done at a certain time before the 
exam is scheduled, the student 
can not take the exam. The work
has to be satisfactory, too, in or
der for the student to be allowed 
to take the exam.
The grade in the course de
pends on what the student makes 
on the exam, which is very ex
tensive. I do not intend to start 
a discusin about the merits of 
the two different ways of running 
universities for approximately the 
same age-groups. But there cer
tainly are differences there, and 
maybe some of it isnt as bad.
It sems to me that the purpose 
of any school should be to prepare 
the students there for the life 
they are going to have to take 
part in once they are out. I dont 
think this is done to any great 
extent by having strict regulations 
in all four years in the school.
Carnegie Plan Interpreted
I believe, from what I can 
fathom of the Carnegie Plan, 
that its major function is to pre
pare the student fo the prob
lems he will meet when he is out 
of school, and how he shall go 
about atacking them. Well and 
good, but would it not be a more 
rounded personality where this 
tutoring had taken place, not only 
in the technical fields, but soci
ally and generally as wel? Then 
the Carnegie Plan would be de
veloped to its full extent; when it 
makes the students fit for life in 
a society, not only in the job.
Naturally, no one will expect 
wonders overnight. And the 
school will not gain if trying to 
do to much at once. But it is 
strange that it can be blind to 
such obvious facts that one or 
two or three couples at a fra
ternity party generally makes no 
difference in the situation any
way. Also that freshman girls 
usually are more mature than 
freshman boys and yet they are 
the ones that have regulations!
Too Strict Regulation?
When the school finds it all 
right to let the male students live 
without regulations, I think it is 
very inconsistent to have fhem 
for the girls. I know the reason 
is not to regulate the girls, but 
to make the parents feel safer, 
which is an unreasonable attitude 
anyway. But it should not need 
to make a whole lot of difference 
if the regulations were taken 
away for girls in the last two 
yars. Most, if not all, students 
years. Most, if not all, students 
their first semesterat the very 
longest, after their first year, 
That, and the fact that they do 
grow up, should be enough to 
ensure the wise men behind the 
school policy that no scandals will 
occur if regulations. are taken 
away.
Consequences of Cut System
Let u- - ----- -*' ' to cc
unexpected happened, namely 
that you were allowed to cut 
class as much as you wanted to. 
Presumably the first semester all 
those who did not come to col
lege to learn, but to have a good 
time, would not go to class, and 
consequently would flunk the 
exam. Some might not have gone 
to class, but studied anyway, and 
so would make the exam. The 
school would then have to flunk 
some of the students, which would 
make the school better off, be
cause it would retain the stu
dents who wanted to learn, and 
send home those who wanted a 
husband, or other social pleas
ures..
Students who held down a parttime job, or those with conflicting 
schedules, would have a chance 
of making the course without 
having to attend the classes; the 
instructors would know that the 
students that did show up were 
interested in the- course, and if 
no students did show, the profes
sors would know that they did 
not teach well.
The only ones who would be 
worse off then before would be 
those who expected to receive a 
D for effort. But do they de
serve it I say no. When a stu
dent gets a grade in a course, it 
is supposed to mean that he 
knows a certain amount of 4ihat 
went on there, and not that he 
went to class often.
Practically speaking, this 
change would not require much 
in the way of different adminis
tering of wisdom. It would be 
enough to tell all the instructors 
not to pay any atention * to how 
many were in their classes, not 
who were there. Chances are that 
most of them would see litle dif
ference anyway.
You Can Be Replaced
I understand that there are al
ways quite a number of people 
trying to get in at Tech without 
success. It would therefore not 
mean much financially to the 
school if more of the present stu
dents flunked out, seeing that 
more could be taken in without 
trouble. I seem to have heard, 
moreover, that this technique al
ready is being used in certain of 
the fine arts departments, where 
more freshmen are taken in than 
can possibly be accomodated on 
a higher level, and the difference 
is taken away by elimination. In
asmuch as this is aproved in cer
tain department, there shouldnt 
be any reasons why it cannot be 
expanded to all departments. I 
do not think the quality of the 
students would suffer by it.
School Spirit
I would like to get in a few 
words about the intagible concept 
called school spirit while I am 
at it. Quite a few times I was 
asked why I didnt attend this or 
that event, usually athletic, and, 
upon my answer that I didnt 
want to, because, I didnt find it 
particularly interesting, I was 
blamed for not having any school 
spirit. Well, obviously somebody 
wants all the students to attend 
all the functions put on for them
and by them. This somebody is 
not the administration, because 
they probably dont care how 
many go to this or that.
Acordingly, it must be the stu
dents themselves, or at least some 
small group, th^t would like us 
all to be gleichschaltet and do 
what everybody else does. I re
member when we wanted to have 
a fraternity party some Saturday 
and weren t allowed because the 
Cameron Choir was giving their 
concert, or maybe it was the Kil
tie Band. I can well understand 
that these worthy organizations 
would lil^p many students to come 
and hear them, but this they will 
not achieve by any kind of force. 
If anything, it will tend to pro
duce an opposite reaction and so 
keep students away.
Psychology Needed
The people that concern them
selves with this thing called stu
dent spirit, must in my opinion, 
be quite dense in their top floors. 
If they ever had any psychology, 
they should know that in order 
to get people to do what you want 
them to, they must be motivated. 
Is it very motivating when some
body says You got no school 
spirit? Obviously not. The events 
that the students are interested 
in, they go to, as for instance 
football and basketball, where 
there usualy is a fair turnout. 
But to expect the vhole student 
body to be there is to be rather 
blue-eyed.
There is no point in trying to 
force students into doing things 
that they would rather noteven 
though one small group thinks it
is obviously the things that the 
whole student body is most inter
ested in. So dont harp too much 
on that topic.
In conclusion, I would like to 
express my sincere thanks to all 
my friends and to the school it
self, for the wonderful time I 
have had while at Tech, and for 
the valuable picture I have got
ten of American youth. It is my 
hope that I will be able someday 
to come back for a visit and 
freshen up on some of my mem
ories.
Signed,
Ove Anderson 
Printing Management 54
Chemistry
The chemistry department 
will hold a graduate seminar 
on Thursday, November 4, at 
11:30 a.m. in EH 1112. Mr. 
Robert I. McDougall will 
speak on The Liquid State.**
Patronize
Tartan
Advertisers
For Your ARROW Shirts and Ties
FRANK MEN'S WEAR
5816 FORBES STREET HA 1-9600 SQUIRREL HILL 
Open Tuesday and Thursday evenings
tfOV/.your own
College 
-Class
pipe
NYLON BIT
Guaranteed
Bite-Proof.
MEDICOJUma (Hater
FILTER PIPE *352 & *522
' Medicos filter strains smoke of nicotine, juices, tars, flakes. When filter turns brown, throw it away with all the impurities it has trapped. Replace with fresh filter for mild, mellow smoking.
Attuol pipe hot your own college letter on bowl
This ones on you
We mean the collar . . . and if youre 
a really smart clothesman, youll keep 
several Arrow spread-collar shirts on 
hand. Pick Arrow Par, left ($3.95). 
Pick a smart Arrow Bi-way spread, 
right ($5.00). Pick any of the smooth 
spread styles. But be sure you pick 
an Arrow. For immaculate tailoring, 
and the custom look, Arrows the 
shirt by far. Prices begin at $3.95.
PAR
Not the slotted collar 
for day-long neatness.
J// O ilrSHlRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  CASUAL WEAR
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 3, 1954
On CampuswithMtJraJman
(Author of Barefoot Boy With Cheek,etc.)
THE INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENT 
OF NED FUTTY
Chloe McColgate was a beautiful coed who majored in psych and worked in the I.Q. testing department of the university. She did 
not work there because she needed money; she worked there because she loved and admired intelligence above all things. I love and admire intelligence above all thing, is the way she succinctly put it.Ned Futty, on the other hand, was a man who could take intelli
gence or leave it alone. What he loved and admired above all things was girls. What I love and admire above all things is girls, is 
the way he put it.One day Ned saw Chloe walking by on the campus. Holy Toledo! he exclaimed. How sweetly flows that liquefaction of her clothes! The following day he saw her walking past again. Greaj; balls of fire! he exclaimed. Next, when I cast mine eyes and see that brave 
vibration each way free, O, how that glittering taketh me!When he saw her again the next day, he could no longer contain himself. He ran up and blocked her way. Excuse me, he said, 
tugging his forelock, I am Ned Futty and I love you beyond the 
saying of it. Will you be mine?
She looked at his quarter-inch haircut, his black rimmed glasses, his two-day beard, his gamy T-shirt, his tattered jeans, his decomposing tennis shoes. You are not unattractive, she admitted, 
but for me beauty is not enough. Intelligence is what I require 
in a man.Im smart as a whip said Ned with a modest blush. Back home everybody always said, You got to get up pretty early in the morning 
to get ahead of old Ned Futty.I.Iaybe so, said Chloe, but if you dont mind, Id like to make sure. Will you come into the I.Q. testing department with me? 
With you I would go into a malted milk machine, cried Ned Futty and laughed and smote his thigh and bit Chloes nape in an 
excess of passion and high spirits. Scampering goatlike, he followed her into the I.Q. testing department.First I will test your vocabulary, said Chloe.Shoot! said Ned gaily and licked her palm.What does juxtaposition mean?Beats me, he confessed cheerily. How about ineffable?
1 over heard of it, smiled Ned, plunging his face into her clavicle. Furtive?
With fur on? said Ned doubtfully.
Chloe sighed. How are you on arithmetic? she asked.
A genius, he assured her.Whats the difference between a numerator and a denominator? My feeling exactly! said Ned with an approving nod. Whats 
the difference?If a man earns fifty dollars a month, said Chloe, and saves 12% 
of hs earnings, how long would it take him to save $100?Forever, said Ned. Who can save anything on $50 a month? 
How do you find a square root?How should I know? replied Ned, giggling. Im no square. 
How are you on English? asked Chloe.I speak it fluently, said Ned with quiet pride.What is the present tense of wrought?Wreet, replied Ned, clutching Chloe to him and dancing 32 bars 
f the Maxixe.Next I will test you for manual dexterity, said Chloe. She handed him a board punched full of oddly shaped holes and a collection of 
oddly shaped pegs. Fit the pegs in the holes, she instructed him. Lets neck instead, suggested Ned.Maybe later, said Chloe. First the pegs.
He fumbled about for a longish interval. Finally he tired of it and 
reached for Chloe.But she fended him off. Ned Futty, she said, you are dumb. You have the highest dumbness score of anybody I have ever tested. Consequently I cannot be your girl, for I love and admire intelligence 
above all things.He hurled himself on the floor and clasped her about the knees. 
But I love you! he cried in anguish. Do not send me from you, or you will make my world a sunless place  full of dim and fearful 
shapes!I am sorry, she answered, but you are too dumb. 
Reconsider, madam, he begged, else a miasm looms before me. Go, she said coldly.
Spent and speechless, he struggled to his feet. With leaden steps he made his painful way to the door. There he stopped and lit a 
cigarette. Then he opened the door and started away to his gray and 
grisly future.Stay! called Chloe.He turned.
Was that, she asked, a Philip Morris you just lit?
Yes, he said.
Then come to me and be my love! cried Chloe joyously. For 
you are not dumb! You are smart! Anybody is smart to smoke Philip Morris with its fine vintage tobaccos, its cool relaxing mild
ness, its superior taste, its snap-open pack. Ned, lover, give me a cigarette and marry me!
And they smoked happily ever after. m shuiman, 1954
This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS
who think you would enjoy their cigarette.
Losing in Engineers 
Educator Warns U. S.
American supremacy in science and technology is seriously 
threatened by a rapid build-up in the supply of engineers in Russia, 
Dr. John T. Rettaliata, president of Illinois Institute of Technology,
has warned. ?-----------------------------------------------------
Dr. Rettaliata pointed out the 
threat to 200 iron and steel indus
try operating executives at a Chicago regional meeting of the 
American Iiron and Steel Insti
tute in the South Shore Country 
club.
vHe said that while this country 
has some 500,000 engineers and 
200,000 scientists, compared with 
Russias estimated 400,000 and
150.000, the Soviet Union has been 
expanding training in these fields 
more rapidly than the United 
States.
From 1951 to 1954, Dr. Ret
taliata stated, the number of Rus
sian engineering graduates totaled
154.000, compared with our 116,000 
for the same yearsan average of 
38,500 a year, against our 29,000.
He estimated that United States 
industry currently needs some 30,- 
000 new engineers annually for re
placement and to fill new jobs. 
However, only a part of each 
years engineering graduates are 
available because of commitments 
to the ROTC program, he added.
The Illinois Tech president 
pointed out that the Russian en
gineering student is given more in
tensive training in his particular 
technical field than his American 
counterpart.
In Russia, the program is of 
five and one-half years duration, 
Dr. Rettaliata explained. Also, 
most of the program is at the ex
pense of the humanities, devoted 
to narrow specialization. In major 
subject matter, the education is 
equivalent to beyond the masters 
degree level here.
In the United States, the ob
jective is to prepare the scientist 
and engineer for civic as well as 
professional responsibilities. More 
of the humanities and liberal 
studies are included to produce 
students better able to cope with 
complex problems prevalent in so
ciety today.
Russia also is giving heavy em
phasis to graduate study, particu
larly in engineering and science, 
which, Dr. Rettaliata said, account 
for nearly one-third of all ad
vanced degrees.
Generally, college students with 
satisfactory scholastic records are 
deferred until they complete their 
graduate work. It is disturbing 
when students who have, ability 
and desire lo pursue advanced 
study are prevented from doing 
so.
Dr. Rattaliata regarded such deferement policies as a serious 
mistake because the real contri
butions toward fundamental re
search are made in the graduate 
field.
The best candidates for future 
scientific and engineering leader
ship must have training, he de
clared.
He urged that granting selective 
service deferments be considered 
on the basis of enhancing the se
curity of the majority.
Engineers and scientists consti
tute less than one-half of 1 per 
cent of our population; yet we are 
relying on this limited group to 
further the advance of our living 
standards, create our military 
equipment and, in general, be re
sponsible for our national security, 
he said.
He explained there is a spread
ing tendency in high school to
ward more general education pro! grams which prepare fewer grad! uates to take up scientific and eni gineering studies in college.
The inventory of basic scientific 
I discovery is rapidly being depleted 
by the drain of technological prog
ress, he said. It is vital that this 
stockpile be constantly replenished 
lest we become a nation devaid of 
means for future advancement.
Educational institutions have 
always been the worlds basic 
source of new knowledge. Their 
programs must remain in effect if 
this is to continue.
My Three Angels 
Is To Continue 
At Hamlet Theater
The Pittsburgh Playhouse is 
featuring two hit plays. Held 
over for two extra weeks, the 
Sam and Bella Spewack comedy, 
My 3 Angels, will now run in 
the Playhouses Hamlet Street 
Theater through November 6.
Edward Mack, Richard Walsh, 
and William Skelton play the 
leading roles in this delightful 
story of three convicts in a French 
penal colony who steal with 
imagination, embezzle with zeal, 
and murder with honor.
While My 3 Angels is run
ning in the Hamlet Street Thea
ter, the romantic comedy, Pyg
malion, by George Bernard Shaw 
is holding forth in the Craft 
Avenue Theater. This delightful 
comedy classic of a street flower 
girl who is transformed into a 
duchess by learning good speech, 
is one of the most charming and 
exceptional productions in Play
house history.
Gloria Abdou and John Ragin, 
a Carnegie1" Tech graduate, play 
the top roles in the play, which 
has been directed by Frederick 
Burleigh.
Vic Vet says
POST-KOREA VETS HAVETHREE YEARS FROM SEPARATION TO START EDUCATION OR TRAINING UNDER THE 
KOREA Gl 81 Li.. THIS IS AN 
EXTENSION Of ONE YEAR UNDER A NEW LAW.
For fall information contact your nearest VETERANS ADMINISTRATION office
Winners Named 
For Warner Prizes
Warner Prizes in chemistry, es
tablished by President John C. 
Warner, who is a former head of 
the chemistry department, have 
been awarded to sophomore Terry 
E. Sharp and senior Myran C. 
Sauer, with Joseph C. Kleiman re
ceiving honorable mention.
The Warner Prize for sopho
mores consists of a three-year 
membership in the Student Affili
ate Chapter of the American 
Chemical Society and is awarded 
on the basis of scholastic record.
The Warner Prize for seniors is 
a three-year membership in the 
American Chemical Society and is 
given for both scholastic achieve
ment and professional promise.
JEANS
FLOWER SHOP
Flowers for All Occasions
1930 Murray Ave.JA 1-5603
When you pause...make it count...have a Coke
OTTltD UNDE* AUTHORITY OF THf COCA-COLA COMPANY Vf
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OP PITTSBURGH 
5722 Center Avenue
to  rvgiit*rd trod* mark.
HlUnd 1-7*11 
o 1954, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

Eddied
. the
most
Tartans Winning Streak Extended To Six; 
Bearcats; Victims of Superior Ground Forces
By Jim Lacey
Carnegie Tech continued its winning ways as the Tartans downed the stubborn St. 
Vincent Bearcats 19-7 at Bearcat Stadium in Latrobe before 2500 chilled fans, for the 
Tartans sixth straight victory and St. Vincents sixth straight loss.
Early in the game, St. Vincent got two breaks when they recovered fumbles from 
the usually
Miller; but they couldnt move 
the heavier, more experienced 
Tech line.
As the quarter ended, Tech 
taken a Bearcat punt on the St.
Vincent 40 yard line, where they 
started a drive that netted 
first score. Jesse Quatse did 
of the ball toting -for the Tartans, 
ripping off two runs of 21 yards to 
the 11 and nine more from there 
to the two. Quatses next try 
a yard short of the mark, but John 
Tucci drove over for the tally.
Roy DeVries attempt for the con
version was wide of the mark.
Techs Line Holds 
This is the way the 
mained at half-time, but 
the Plaid had made a sensational 
goal line stand as the period ended.
Paul Farnen intercepted a Tucci 
pass to start a St. Vincent drive.
Bob Wrabley threw two passes to 
Terry DEmilio which put the ball 
on the Tech seven. Wrabley bulled 
his way to the one where the stout 
Tech line held as Jim Gorman, the 
Bearcat quarterback, attempted 
two sneaks that brought the ball 
within inches of the goal line as 
the gun went off ending the helf.
Tech scored two fast touchdowns 
in the third period to clinch the 
game. A quick exchange of punts 
put the Plaid on their own 46 yard 
line, from, where they started their 
first drive.
A pass interference penalty set 
the Plaid up on the Bearcat 28.
Statistics
TECH ST. VINCENT
16................. First downs .................. 12246................. Yards rushing ............... 62
7........... Passes attempted ..............25
3............. Passes completed ....... 10
42................. Yards passing ................Ill
1.............  interceptions...................  1
3.............   Fumbles ......................... 1
28, Punting average ........ S3
35................ Yards penalized ................23
Miller and Quatse carried to the 
nine in two plays; then Miller ran 
into the end zone and DeVries 
added the conversion.
Tartans Score Again 
The third and final tally came 
after the Tartans took a punt on 
their own 16. Fleet Eddie Miller 
sped past all but one of the St. 
Vincent defenders, but could 
not fake out Bob Wrabley after 
streaking downfield for 59 yards. 
From here Tech marched to the 16 
where Tucci stepped back and 
threw a bullet pass into the end 
zone to Paul Bercik, who made a 
leaping catch for the tally, mak
ing the score 19-0.
Madway in the fourth period, St. 
Vincent made a consolation score, 
starting from their own 33 yard 
line. Ed Watkins and Bill Bradley 
did most of the carrying for the 
Bearcats, and Paul Farnen capped 
the drive with a pass to Watkins 
for the remaining 17 yards and the 
score. Jack Heimbeucher convert
ed to bring the final score to 19-7.
Eddie Miller played his usual 
fine game, running 104 yards in 
five carries, though he fumbled 
twice in the first stanza, and John 
Tucci, who is fast becoming a Tech 
luminary, played an equally fine 
game, scoring a TD and throwing 
for another.
The home team also came up 
with some outstanding players as 
Bob Wrabley shone on both offense 
and defense, and Terry DEmilio 
and Ed Watkins broke through the 
Tech line for some sizeable gains.
Next week, as part of Techs 
Homecoming celebration, the Scots 
will play host to the W & J Presi
dents at Forbes Field. The Prexies 
have yet to win a game this sea
son and recently lost to Waynesburg 40-6.
ST. VINCENT
EndsAlba ugh, Sheridan, W. Clouks, 
Todaro.
TacklesAleski, Muchoney, Kintz, Avo- lio.
S,rtcoiworicope
By LENNY FELDMAN
Phot oby PROJesse Quatse and Eddie Miller, two of Techs backfield stars, who 
helped defeat the Bearcast 19-7.
Tech Battles W & J
Scots Favored In Annual Classic
The Carnegie Tech-Washington and Jefferson football 
game at Forbes Field will be a highlight of the Scots an
nual Homecoming on November 6 at 2:00 p.m.
The Prexies come here with a young team made up
most of freshmen and. sopho-O 
mores; this may account for their 
winless season so far. Ten lettermen are returning, but only three 
of those are starters. They are: 
guards Camille Maravalli and 
Steve Oliphant, and halfback Paul 
Goodwin, Sophomore Ed Daglish 
leads Coach Chuck Nelsons winged-T offense.
Last year the Presidents had a 
four won and four lost record 
while this year they have lost to 
Denison, Dickinson, Geneva, Mus
kingum, Thiel, and Waynesburg.
The only common opponent on 
both schedules is Geneva who de
feated W&J, 21-0 while Tech 
streaked past the Covenanters, 
15-7.
The Tech-W&J series began 
back in 1906 and continued until 
1933, when the series was broken 
off. In 20 games in those years, 
Tech won three, lost 12, and tied 
five. Since the series was resumed, 
Tech has held the edge with three 
wins to one loss.
Scotts in Practice
Cratslymen Face Rough Season; 
To Open With Indiana Teachers
By Jack Kane
Though all eyes are focused on the doings of the foot
ball team, the basketball team is already hard at work pre
paring for the coming season. The team has been prac
ticing regularly since the beginning of October in prepara
tion for its first game, which will be played at home against
Indiana State Teachers. 
Tartans will face an extremely
By Lenny Feldman
Though Carnegie Techs stand on athletics is well known, there 
are a few diehards who feel that Tech will and is going to revive some 
of its football ghosts of the past. With a team that is romping over 
opponents that obviously should not be on its schedule, there is 
talk that Tech will get a Bowl invitation and will accept it.
A few short weeks ago Dr. Warner was quoted in the local 
papers as stating that Tech will definitely not accept a Bowl bid. 
This bit of information was picked up and twisted to mean, by some 
manner of logic, incomprehensible to but a few, that Tech would 
accept a Bowl bid. The reasons should be obvious why the school 
would not.
Tech does not wish to deprive any of its students of any pleasures 
attendant college life, but it also does not wish to extend the 
season any longer than it is scheduled for. For in so doing, the stu
dents would be taken away from their studies and classrooms that 
much longer, and thus would be defeating the very purpose and 
aim of the institution, that of maintaining Carnegie first and above 
all as a high-ranking educational institution and not as an instru
ment for entertaining the general public by means of elaborate 
athletic spectacles.
The school does feel, however, that intercollegiate competition 
does have a place on this campus ^nd can add zest to college life 
and be of benefit to those who participate. Wherever possible the 
school will try to provide a schedule that will be of interest to all, 
and be of the calibre of play that the Tech team itself is capable 
of playing, with its limited practice sessions and classroom obligations.
The school is not adverse to scheduling trips for the team, 
but will not allow the players to miss classes because the time is 
needed for traveling. Teams such as Franklin and Marshall, Gettys
burg, and Dickinson, to name a few, will try to be worked into 
future schedules, but the school also wishes to schedule teams that 
are not only on par with us athletically but also scholastically. Some 
of the teams that are now on the schedule are not up to either of 
these two standards, and as their contracts run out, some of the 
aforemention teams might well replace them. The contract with 
[Continued on page 8]
Harriers to Compete 
At Tri-state Meet
Gillies-Weaver Dual Expected 
To Be Feature of Fridays Meet
GuardsMucci, Caruso, Demalon, Lesko.
CentefrS. Cibulas.BacksDEmilio, Wrabley, Freeman, Fanran, Smith, Gorman, Bradley, J. Heimbaucher, McCloy.CARNEGIE TECH
EndsFicery, Hrosik, Bercik, McGuigan, 
Stofan.TacklesWengrzyn, McCarthy, Thomas, 
Luckey.GuardsKarcher, Williamson, Capul, 
Bobwearer.
CenterSchell, Kohan.BacksJeske, Miller, DeVries, Quatse, 
Brown, Kennedy, Tucci, Briner, Weav
er, Murray, Carricato, Blatt, Myers.
St. Vincent 0 0 0 7 7
Carnegie Tech 0 6 13 019Touchdowns  Tucci, Miller, Bercik,
Watkins. Points after touchdown  De
Vries, J. Heimbucher.Referee, Logodice; linesman, Simon,
umpire. Senapole; field judge, Grim.
Free Dance
Citcom Clan will sponsor a 
free record hop on Friday 
evening:, November 5, immedi
ately following the pep rally.
The dance will be held in 
the womens gym which will 
be decorated for the occasion, 
and refreshments will be sold.
The entire student body is 
invited.
difficult schedule this year, and 
after their opening breather they 
face West Virginia, Duquesne, Pitt, 
and Penn State, in that order. Last 
year the small but aggressive Skibos missed playing .500 ball, win
ning 12 out of their 25 scheduled 
contests.
Once again, the Tartans will un
doubtedly be at a decided height 
disadvantage to their opponents 
this coming season and they will 
once again have to do their best to 
offset this deficit by using speed 
and sharp-shooting from the out
side, not to mention that intangible 
something called a fighting heart 
or guts.
Coach Mel Cratsley, along with 
the able assistance of Moe Fassinger and frosh coach Mike Theo
dore, will once again be at the 
reins doing his usually dependable 
job of guiding the Tech quintet.
Fortunately, most of last years 
squad will be returning. Walt Mc
Ginnis, Wayne Nathanson, Ralph 
Mocker, Jim Boyd, Alan Frank, 
[Continued on page 9]
Cross country coach Bob Car-4 
man and his team will journey 
to Slippery Rock this Friday in 
quest of their second straight 
Tri-State cross country title.I 4The six schools participating in 
the meet will be Tech, W&J, 
Bethany, Geneva, Slippery Rock, 
and Westminster. At the moment 
Geneva is favored to win the 
coveted crown, having posted vic
tories over four of the five other 
entries. The second meet of the 
season, Geneva beat Tech in a 
close battle 26-29, that also saw 
Genevas Homer Weaver edge out 
Techs Mai Gillies by three-tenths 
of a second. The duel between 
Gillies and Weaver will probably
feature the Tri-State meet
Since the Geneva meet, Tech 
has upended West Virginia, the 
southern conference champions, 
and posted an impressive win 
over Case Tech before the fans 
at Forbes field. The scores of the 
two meets were 25-30 and 16-39, 
respectively. This past Friday the 
Harriers were to close out their 
dual meet season with Westmins
ter, but the meet was called off 
and will not be run.
The Tech runners have better 
than an even break to bring back 
the crown, especially in view of 
the improved form of Bill Bryant, 
along with the improved running 
of the squad of MacDonald, Flynn, 
Brodine, Whitney, and Dirscoll.
Tri-State Champs
Front Row: Coach Carman, Bryant, Swaney, Gillies, and Whit
ney .Back Row: Flynn, Hartman, Brodiner, McCann, and DriscolL
Wednesday, November 3, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage 
Humble St. Vincents, 19-7

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 3, 1954
/. M. Football Extended
DU^s Take Skibo League; Tartan, Kiltie Leagues 
Still Undecided Due To Rain And Protests
As the teams finished up their schedules this past week, several postponed games and 
two protested games were added to the schedule and will have to be played the beginning
permitting.
The games yet to be played are ! 
the SAE-ATO battle, which will i 
have been played by the time the 
paper comes out, DTD-TX, SN- 1 
BTP, and Obelisks-ATO B. The j 
SAE-ATO battle looms as the big | 
Question mark, for the outcome 
will decide first, second and third 
place in the Tartan league. Should | 
the ATOs win, there will be a 
three-way tie for first necessitating j 
a playoff of the teams. The DTDTX game is a battle for first place, : 
the outcome of which will not af
fect the rest of the league. The 
two battles in the Skibo league 
will determine the second place 
team, the DUs having clinched the 
league title.
Last Week's Games
In the Skibo league the sixth 
place ATO B team knocked off 
the third place Betas by the .score 
of 31-26. The Sigma Nus romped 
over the Newman Club 21-3, only 
to get clubbed by the DUs 26-7. 
In the other league games, the 
Obelisks took the measure of the 
Beta Sigs, who lost their sixth 
Straight, 16-6.
The Tartan league saw the Kap
pa Sigs win two from the ASCE 
and the Static Charges by the re
spective scores of 26-11 and 29-14. 
In other games the Gems lost to 
SAE 23-8 and the Charges and the 
Phi Kaps slopped around in the 
mud to a tie at 13 all. Action in 
the Kiltie league was also light as 
the Delts ran up the score on the 
Tau Delts 54-13, while the PiKAs 
took one from the Eagles 14-7. In 
other games the Tau Delts dropped 
one to the AIEE 9-7, and TX post
ed another win by virtue of a for
feit by the AIEE.
League Standings:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
jgjpf
SAEs win as anotherFedor passis good for a touchdown.
Tartan League
SAE
KS
ATO A 
Tech Gems 
Phi Kap 
Static Charges 
ASCE
Kiltie
DTD
TX
Eagles
PiKA
AIEE
TDP
Citcom
Entries
All those interested in en
tering; teams for bridge and 
volleyball must have entry 
blanks filled out and given in 
to the Intramural Office in the 
gym by November 4 and No
vember 10, respectively. All 
those interested in entering 
wrestling must sign up for 
conditioning by November 1.
Protests Upheld 
By IM Board
At a meeting of the Intramural 
Board last Tuesday, discussion was 
held on two protested football 
games, with both protests being 
upheld. The games in question 
were the Sigma Nu-Beta Theta Pi 
game, which was won by the Betas 
8-7, and the Delta Tau DeltaTheta Xi game which was won by 
the Delts 17-10.
Discussion was held on the pro
test that was entered by Sigma Nu. 
of which the main issue was the 
scoring of a touchdown by a Beta 
pass receiver who jumped into the 
field of- play after being out of 
bounds. Further points included 
in the argument were that pass 
interference is to be called a 
touchdown, the Betas had only 
four men ready to play at 4:45, 
and according to the rules set up 
by the IM Board, the game should 
have been forfeited, and that there 
were no yardline markers or 
downs. Needless to say, it was 
voted to play the game over as 
soon as possible.
The protest entered by Theta 
Xi was then discussed though no 
representative from the Delts 
was present nor was the referee 
there. Theta Xi claimed that on a 
play in which a foul was called on 
each team, there should have been 
no penalty and play should have 
been taken over from the spot of 
the previous down. The protest 
was upheld.
Sportscope
[Continued jrom page 7] 
Lehigh expires this year, with its 
renewal pending. Tech has lost to 
Lehigh five years in a row, and 
the administration is beginning to 
feel that the Engineers from Beth
lehem are out of our class entirely. 
If Tech beats Lehigh come No
vember 13, it will be a good argu
ing point for renewing the con
tract. I feel that there should al
ways be one team on the sched
ule that is going to pin your ears 
back and Lafayette was supposed 
to be itthe replacement for Le
high. But the Plaid team even sur
prised the adbinistration.
Complaint Department
Some weeks ago a cracker jack 
cross-country tjeam from Tech 
journeyed down to Slippery Rock 
for a meet with the Rockets who 
are on great shakes as hill and 
dale men. The events that follow
ed weye of such a nature as to 
majce the day even bleaker. Inves
tigation turned up facts that de
manded immediate action by the 
Athletic Department of Carnegie 
Tech, in view of the fact that the 
Tri-State meet is to be held at 
Slippery Rock this Friday. A for
mal complaint should have been 
filed with the Tri-State commission 
weeks ago, informing th#m of the 
unsportsmanlike conducl that was 
in evidence at Slippery Rock, and 
what could happen this Friday at 
Tri-State. It is fair to the teams 
competing, especially for your own 
[Continued on page 20]
Skibo League
DU
SN
Obelisks 
BTP 
ATO B 
Newman Club 
BSR
SUCCESS STORY
Camels  America's most 
popular cigarette.. .by far!-fot more pure, pfecrsute.

---------------------------------------------------

LORD WEST
The first name in quality formais
LORD WEST
the
authentic 
University 
del 
tuxedo ..
Wednesday, November 3, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPagre 
Stubborn Scots
The Stubborn Scots on Car
negie Tech have yielded less than 
90 yards on the ground per game 
to opposing teams while open
ing up holes big neough to ride 
Macks trucks through for Techs 
hardrunning backfield. Against this 
defensive figure, Techs offense has 
amassed an average of 210 yards 
on the ground per game.
Now that Tech is well on its 
way to one of its best seasons 
since the de-emphasis of sports 
took place, most of the credit 
should belong to the hard-driv
ing linemen who have played 
terrific ball all year long.
The Tartans forward wall is 
composed of three seniors, one 
freshman, and three juniors.
Ken Ficery (End), outstand
ing freshman member of the Tar
tan squad, hails from Wilmerding, 
Pa. His career in sports took 
shape during his years at Wil
merding high school, where he 
played basketball for four years,
Tech Schedule
6 ............. Westminster ........ 0
23................Lafayette..................21
2 5.......... Johns Hopkins ....... 0
15..................Geneva.................... 7
2 6..............Edinboro............... 6
19............St. Vincents.....................7
Nov. 6Wash-Jeff here.
Nov. 13Lehigh here.
Basketball[ontinuea from page 7] 
Dick Fieler, and Bill Dosey, along 
with Phil Jeske and Eddie Miller 
of the football team, will all be 
returning. The last three men
tioned are seniorsMcGinnis, Nathanson, Boyd, and Fieler are jun
iors while Frank and Mocker are 
the sophomores on the squad. 
Charley Goetz, a promising fresh
man, who will add some height to 
the relatively short team, is also 
^ expected to see action with the 
M varsity.
Tech Schedule
Dec.1?Indiana S. T. C.
Dec.4*West Virginia
Dec.6Duquesne
Dec.8?Pitt
Dec.11Penn State
Dec.15* Thiel
Dec.17?Westminster
Dec.29Fayetteville, W. Va
and30Tournament
Jan.3Piw
Jan.8West Virginia
Jan.12Geneva
Jan.14*Penn State1Jan.15W. & J.
Jan.17?Grove City
Feb.-1Grove City
Feb.5?Dickinson
Feb.9?Duquesne
Feb.12?Geneva%Feb.17Youngstown
Feb.19?CaseFeb.23?W. & J.
Feb.26Westminster
Mar.2?Slippery Rock
brand new
lightweight
year-round
worsted
short)il erta or raw
shawl iaptL 
flap pockets, 
renter pent, 
non-pleoted 
trou sert
for *HfHl **# nd fcrrr tow!rt <*>-
    by D. Stea
football for three years, and base
ball for four, and earned a total 
of eight letters in these three 
sports.
Surprisingly enough, he was 
somewhat adverse to playing var
sity football and had to be coaxed 
into going out for the team by 
the coach. However, Ken was a 
member of the WPIAL first string 
in football and basketball during 
his junior year. He also gained 
experience in organizational work, 
having ben one of the founding 
fathers of his schools first stu
dent council.
Presently in the department of 
printing management here at 
Tech, Ken expects to go out for 
varsity basketball in the near 
future. He thinks Tech is a fine 
school which provides good op
portunities, if the individual ap
plies himself. Ken also thinks 
a great deal of the team, but 
states that, although the first part 
of Techs schedule was tough, 
because we faced the tougher 
teams during this period, the 
remainder of the schedule will be 
just cis tough, since the other 
teams are playing for us.
Ficerys high school team par
ticipated in the class B playoffs 
for two years in succession (1951 
and 1952). He remembers one
game in particular, which the 
varsity lost 12-6. They scored a 
TD during the final 20 seconds of 
the game, but it was called back. 
Kens most exciting moment occured, however, during the La
fayette upset, when he blocked a 
punt and returned it for the 
touchdown which put Tech back 
into the game.
*" * *
John McCarthy (Tackle) is a 
senior civil enginer, a member 
of the ASCE and Newman Club, 
and a participant in intramural 
basketball. He started playing 
football during the seventh grade 
at St. Scholasticas school, was a 
member of the varsity baseball 
squad at North Catholic high, 
school, and spent two years on his 
high school football varsity, earn
ing a letter in the latter.
John has lettered twice in foot
ball at Tech. He recalls two out
standing events which occurred 
during the time he was a member 
of the Tartan squad: One was his 
first game, against Westminister, 
during his freshman year; the 
other, as much a big ledown as
 the first was a big moment, 
happened during the recent Gen
eva game, when he almost scored 
a, TD.* * #
Another senior representative 
of the civil engineering depart
ment. A1 Schell (Center), is 
treasurer of the ASCE, v i c epresident of the C-Club, and a 
participant in intramural softball 
(a member of the all-star team), 
basketball and track. He has let
tered there times as a member of 
the Tartan squad, missing his 
sophomore year because a torn 
cartilage prevented him from 
playing.
A1 played varsity football dur
ing his junior year of high school 
at Hopewell (located outside of 
Aliquippa), spent his senior year 
on the Mercerburg Academy var
sity, and lettered during both 
years of play. He achieved his 
biggest thrill, however, during 
his freshman year at Tech, when 
the Tartans faced Akron for the 
last time in the Rubber Bowl; 
We beat thembut it was a see
saw batle all the way through.
* * *
John Williamson, (Guard), a 
senior ME, is a participant in in
tramural softball, and has earned 
letters in varsity football during 
his sophomore and junior years. 
John was responsible for organi
zing a grade school team at St. 
Bernards school during the 
seventh grade, spent four years 
on the Dormont High school var
sity squad, receiving two letters, 
and was a member of his high 
school track team for four years. 
Although he participated in the 
championship playoffs during his 
junior year in high school, he is 
most thrilled by the possibility 
of the Tartan squad going un
defeated this year.
* * *
Lack of space does not permit 
a full description of three other 
outstanding linemen; Don Hrosik, Ed Karcher, and Frank WenJames Mandel, 
Junior Civil 
Wins Contest
James Mandel, junior civil en
gineer from Pittsburgh, won the 
Tartan football contest last week 
by selection 11 out of 15 winner*
Jim, like every other con
testant failed to predict the TexasSouthern Methodist tie but came 
through on the tough ones in the 
midwest and the south, where 
Minnesota took the measure of 
Michigan State. Iowa won from 
Wisconsin, and Baylor beat Texas 
Christian.
This weeks contest should 
prove a challenge even to the best 
of experts, what with North Car
olina playing South Carolina, 
Georgia Tech-Tennessee, FloridaGeaorgia, Iowa-Purdue, DukeNavy, Cornell-Syracuse, and Columbia-Dartmouth.
grzyn. Hrosik, a junior civil engi
neer, hails from Homestead and 
stars lor the Tartans in the end 
position; Wengrzyn, who plays 
tackle, is a representative of the 
chemical engineering department, 
a junior, and an alumnus of Trafford high school; Karcher, a for
mer student at Carick high school, 
is a junior electrical engineer, 
and plays guard for the Tech 
squad.
HALF DOLLAR JOINING 
MARCH OF DIMES
Garth Saager,
Western Illinois State College
LITTLE BOY TAKING DATE 
FOR ESCALATOR RIDE
Elaine Mae Rubinstein 
Brooklyn College
A POOR BUTTERFLY
Julie Hammond 
Michigan State Normal College
ANT COMPLETING HOME RUN 
TEAMMATES WAITING 
TO CONGRATULATE HIM
Max Crohn 
University of North Carolina
What makes a Lucky taste better?
44
TOASTED
to taste better!
What cigarette do college students go for? 
According to the latest, biggest coast-tocoast survey, students prefer Luckies to all 
other brands. And once again, the No. 1 
reason is better taste. Of course Luckies 
taste better. First of all, Lucky Strike 
means fine tobacco. Then, that tobacco is 
toasted to taste better. Its Toastedthe 
famous Lucky Strike processtones up 
Luckies light, mild, good-tasting tobacco 
to make it taste even better. Try a pack. 
Maybe youll be as fortunate as the student 
in the Droodle to the right, titled: Lucky 
smoker . . . faulty cigarette vending ma
chine. Even if youre not, youll enjoy the 
better-tasting cigarette ... Lucky Strike.
AV\A
APACHE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
James D. Merritt 
University of New Hampshire
BOY FLYING KITE 
FROM UPSTAIRS WINDOW
Vernon W. Su>enson 
Kansas State College
WHATS THIS?
asks ROGER PRICE*
For solution see 
paragraph at left
STUDENTS!----------------EARN $25!
Lucky Droodles are pouring in! Where 
are yours? We pay $25 for all we use, 
and for many we dont use. So, send 
every original Droodle in your noodle, 
with its descriptive title, to Lucky 
Droodle, P. O. Box 67, New York 46, N.Y.
*DROODLES, Copyright, 1954, by Roger Price
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER Cleaner/ Fresher/ Smoother!
A.T.C* FOBBCT M (/w AMtmCAl LIADINC MANUFACTURER OF CIGAMKTTSt
tailored by Wes* Mill
101 West 21 St., New York 11, N r

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 10CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 3, 1954
Tech Home Economics Senior 
Wins Fashion Design Award
When the prize winning design in boys apparel was shown to 
more than 500 members of the apparel industry in New York last 
Friday, October 29, the originator of the design wasnt there to 
take a bow. ?-----------------------------------------------------
Diane Bobinski, 21-year-old 
home economics senior, captured 
first prize with a two-piece boys 
suit she entered in a design award 
project conducted at Carnegie 
Tech by Waldes Kohinoor, Inc., 
makers of slide fasteners.
No one was more surprised than 
the pretty, blue-eyed co-ed when 
word came last week her entry 
rated top award in the boys di
vision of the design competition. 
It had been done as part of an as'signment in a costume design class 
at the end of her junior year last 
June.
No Thought
Since then she had gone home 
for the summer to Riverhead, L. I. 
in New York, returned this fall to 
enter her senior year as a major in 
clothing and textiles, and never 
gave another thought to the little 
boys suit she had designed.
In the meantime, competitive de
signs were being checked and re
checked for their adaptability to 
manufacturing as well as original
ity and customer appeal.
Friday, in New York, some of 
Americas most important manu
facturers, designers and retailers 
of male apparel saw the sample 
garment made up from her de
sign, along with 40 original de
signs in advance resort styles.
Queen Candidate 
Miss Bobinski hopes this might 
ultimately lead to a job where she 
could do something that involves 
travel in connection with fashion. 
A candidate for beauty queen in 
her freshman year, she is studying 
journalistic writing now, does 
fashion sketching only reasonably 
well* she says, and has given some 
thought to either magazine work
or some phase of fashion co-ordination.
Asked what inspired her to do 
a design for boys clohting, Miss 
Bobinski congessed it was her lit
tle year-old nephew, Jimmy, who 
lives in Providence, R. I.
My sister would have trouble 
getting Jimmy in and out of his 
clothes and one day said there 
ought to be an easier way to dress 
him, she explained.
So her winning design had zip
pers down each side of the trous
ers as well as down the shirt front, 
her idea of an easy, quick way to 
dress a youngster.
Complaints
[Continued, from page 8]
school which is the defending 
champion, to withhold this infor
mation, when these teams are go
ing down there in good faith?
Op en House Draws 
Record Croivds As 
Tech Shoivs Wares
Last Tuesday, October 26, sawtCarnegie Tech shine and sparkle ; 
as it does on rare occasions and i 
proudly show off its wares to in- j 
terested spectators. A large crowd j 
of educators, prospective students, I 
and friends and families of Tech j 
students toured the various build- ; 
ings and facilities of the school, j 
Even though the weather man was ; 
not too cooperative the largest  
crowd in recent years paraded J 
through the different departments. 5
Each department of the school i 
had displays relating to its par- ; 
ticular field which were run by the 
students. The electrical engineer
ing department had a sei detec
tor which determined the sex of 
anyone desiring to know it. There 
was also a television transmitting 
and receiving hookup where peo
ple could see themselves on tele
vision.
The mechanical department had 
all the motors and engines going at 
full speed. The wind tunnel was 
also in operation and a device 
showing how different wing shapes 
affect air flow was employed.
Margaret Morrison had a num
Pictured above are a few of the hundreds of people who at
tended the Open House last Tuesday evening. Each dpartmnt had 
its displays to mystify and attract studnts and judging from the crowds 
the evening was quite a success.
ber of interesting displays to of
fer. Microscopes showed how dif
ferent animal life looked under 
magnification. The home econom
ics department showed a new pro
cess in differential dying where a 
cloth make of two materials would 
be dyed two colors. A table show
ing how many calories in a certain 
amount of food was also on dis
play.
The civil engineering department 
had the splashing water running 
all over. Cement, steel, and wood 
were also observed in various de
grees of tension and compression.
Low  . . and behold !
The lnotommic Chevrolet k 55
Chevrolet and General Motors took a whole new look at the low-cost car 
and just look what happened! NOW BEING SHOWN!
Council
[Continued, from page 1] 
for a short time, he would like to 
say that the motion approved and 
the motion stricken from Councils 
minutes are identical in their basic 
approach to the problem of com
petition with all-school events. 
Why then the inconsistency, the 
alternate approval, disapproval 
and amending? One reason may 
be that this approach to the prob
lem is not correct. But are the 
majority of Council members will
ing to spend the time, thought and 
energy in analyzing the problem 
of attendance at all-school events 
to achieve a more basic approach?
Mr. Dick Christensen, during 
discussion on the restriction, pre
sented and developed the view
point that arbitrarily eliminating 
competition to all-school events 
does not get to the basis of the 
problem; that the correct solution 
may instead lie in making the all
school event the more desirable al
ternate for an individual who is 
confronted with a choice of recre
ational activities on campus. In 
Mr. Christensens suggestion, the 
burden of responsibility for the 
success of an all-school function 
would rest squarely on the organ
ization sponsoring the particular 
event, the organization most in
timately concerned with the social 
and financial success of failure of 
the function.
Council Charged
Student Council is charged with 
the duty of building and main
taining an all-school spirit and inte rest, and is consequently inter
ested in all-school social events. 
P."4 in such a position Council is 
susceptible to the cry of Partisan 
from certain sources if it favors 
legislation favorable to the larger 
ca'ripus ?roups. The trend there
fore has been away from this type 
of legislation in order to avoid the 
charge of bias or dirty politics.
However, this trend has become 
so pronounced over the years, 
that unfavorable to certain large 
groups has become synonymous 
with of benefit to the whole stu
dent body in the minds of many 
Council members, while the basic 
problems remain unsolved mainly 
because these problems have not 
even been fundamentally defined.
More than a new cara new concept of low-cost motoring!
See the Motoramic Chevrolet at Your Chevrolet Dealers
The 8 / A ir Sport Coupon* of 14 newbeauties in three new series.
Now Chevrolet and General Motors have com 
up with a completely new idea: to build a car 
that offers the very newest styling, the most 
modem features, and the finest performance. 
Its something that took a lot of doing and 
that only the worlds leading car builders could 
do. Everythings new in this Motoramic Chev
rolet from its lower top right down to its 
tubeless tires. Come see itl
The motoramic
Chevrolet
The valve-in-head V8 as only the valve-inhead leader can build itl
Now Chevrolet introduces the ,tTurbo-Fire 
V8! High horsepower (162), high-compression 
(8 to 1), high performance and surprisingly 
high gas mileage! Available with standard 
transmission, or with the extra-cost options 
of Overdrive or Powerglide.
You can choose from
two new sixes, too!
The last word in six-cylinder performance! 
New "BIue-Flame 136 teamed with Power
glide and a new "Blue-Flame 123 with 
standard transmission or Overdrive.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 3, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage II
.W
^CARNECIE^ ./)
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor ......................................................................................Kathy Galligan
Managing Editor ..................................................................Victor Sabol
Circulation Manager ..............................................................James Soltis
Reporters .................................................-. .Dolores Neff, Edna Thorwart
Night Student Council 
Plans A Monte Carlo
On Saturday evening, November 13, 1954, in Thistle Hall 
at 8:30 p.m. Evening Student Council will again hold what 
has come to be an annual social affair by popular demand 
the Monte Carlo Carnival. This promises to be a better Car
nival than ever before with au-*
51
thentic gambling games, a white 
elephant auction, fortune predic
tions, dancing in the lounge, and
refreshments served in the Black 
Cat.
The meager admission price of 
$.75 will entitle you to $1,000 in 
play moneythe quickest, easiest 
$1,000 you could ever hope to 
make! With this swag you will 
be prepared to gamble at all the 
gaming tables on a poor mans 
jpincome for millionaires stakes. A 
- very worthwhile prize will be 
awarded to the boy and girl win
ning the highest sum of money 
at the games for the entire eve
ning. Come out and try your luck 
as a gamblersee how it feels to 
risk money on' the turn of a 
wheel!
Gambling, however, is not the 
only attraction at the* Monte Carlo 
Cat-nival. Those of you of a more 
Impractical nature may bid your 
money for prizes at the white 
elephant auction. These prizes 
are often very worthwhile articles 
and will always serve as a sou
venir of the evening. Those who 
get tired just spending all the 
money ma ^ withdraw to the 
Black Cat Lounge and dance for 
the remainder of the evening. 
Those who are still dissatisfied 
with the evenings entertainment 
v^may have their fortune predicted 
by our fortune teller or adjourn 
to the Black Cat for a session of 
chatter over a bottle of cold pop 
and pretzels.
We know you will have a good 
time doing something different 
in the way of entertainment, and 
we will be looking forward to 
seeing you there.
m
>
Elephants
Sincere thanks are extended 
to all those who have already 
contributed white elephants to 
our Monte Carlo Carnival to 
be held November 13, 1954, 
but many more such contribu
tions are needed. Please turn 
in your white elephants in to 
Mr. McKelways office where 
someone on the social commit
tee will pick them up. Thank 
you.
Phi Gamma Pi 
Holds Annual Tea
The annual Evening Student 
Council Tea was held at the 
Carnegie Union on Sunday after
noon, October 24. The Phi Gam
ma Pi girls were hostesses for 
the gala affair. It was a beautiful 
fall day and many girls turned 
out for the tea. Several Student 
Council members were present as 
also were several honored guests, 
Mr. and Mrs. McKelway, Mrs. 
Mercer, Mrs. Goodfellow and Mrs. 
Schwarz.
To begin the afternoons affair, 
Gini Ross, president of Phi Gam
ma Pi, bid everyone welcome and 
then turned the afternoon over 
to Audrey Wiskow. Audrey gave 
a brief preview of the afternoons 
events and then introduced 
Matthew Bertovich, vice-president 
of the Student Council. Matt, al
though admittedly quite nervous 
before so many women, gave us 
a very informative insight to our 
Student Council and its various 
functions. He told us about the 
two Student Council affairs in the 
near futurethe Sadie Hawkins 
Square Dance on October 31 and 
the Monte Carlo Carnival on No
vember 13.
Upon his conclusion, Audrey in
troduced a woman who is no 
stranger among us, Mrs. Goodfellow. During this past summer, 
Mr. and Mrs. Goodfellow toure(J 
through various countries in Eur
ope with a group of American 
educators. Their experiences were 
many and very interesting. As we 
toured through England, France, 
Italy, Austria and Switzerland with 
her that afternoon, she told of the 
different clothing fashions, the 
educational standards of each 
country and of many human in
terest stories. She also brought 
several souvenirs for everyone to 
see.
To the strains of School Days, 
played on the piano by Dolores 
Neff, everyone adjourned to the 
next room for their cup of tea 
and their lunch box. In these 
lunch boxes were found a delici
ous sandwich and a piece of cake. 
Audrey Wiskow, assisted by Lor
raine Stahle and Dolores Neff, 
took care of the planning and 
decorations for the afternoon to 
carry out the theme of School 
Days.
A
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Day Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES
CAMPUS CLEANERS
Super
Snooper
One of our most faithful Phi 
Gamma Pi sorority girls, Audrey 
Wiskow, has been on the sick 
list for the past few weeks. De
spite the handicap of working 
from a sick bed, Audrey super
vised all the planning and prepa
ration for the Student Council 
Tea, held by Phi Gamma Pi soror
ity on Sunday afternoon, October 
24. Everyone attending enjoyed 
the tea, and we wish to especially 
thank Audrey for a fine job well 
done.
Whatever makes a man a 
slave takes half his worth 
away.
We want to take this opportun
ity to thank all those who helped 
make the square dance the suc
cess it was and especially to 
thank .Social Chairmen Jean 
Woods and Ray Schwalm for their 
unstinting efforts to please eve
ning students with this social.
Use what talents you 
possess; the woods would be 
very silent if no birds sang 
there except those who sang 
 best.
Evening Student Council will 
hold its regular monthly meeting 
on Sunday, November 7 at 2:00 
p.m. at the Carnegie Union. All 
members are reminded to attend 
as this will be an important meet
ing.
He achieves success who
has lived his life to the 
fullest; who has the trust and 
respect of men and women 
and the love of little chil
dren; who makes the world 
a better place than he found 
it; who always looks for the 
best in others, and gives to 
others the best he has; whose 
daily life is an inspiration; 
whose love and comradeship 
are a tower of strength to 
those who hold him dear. 
Helene Tousimis is now wear
ing a diamond ring on the proper 
finger. May you have much hap
piness, Helene.
The man who sings his 
own praise invariably sings 
a solo unaccompanied.
John Elias and Walt Bachmeyer 
were seen at the Square Dance 
last Saturday sporting very bright 
plaid shirts  the better to be 
seen on the dance floor. Emily 
Muhic also turned out for the 
Square Dance and now greets her 
friends with a friendly al-lamand left when meeting them.
Work  something that 
when we have it we wish we 
didnt; when we dont have 
it**we wish we did, and the 
object of it is to be able to 
afford not to do any some 
day.
Joanne Neff, our dance instiuctress and recent proprietor of a 
new dance studio, turned out for 
the square dance and helped sev
eral people there improve their 
dance steps. It was fun just watch
ing Joanne.
To win, you sometimes 
take a chance; and whether
youre safe or out, what 
counts is that you tried your 
best.
The Tech Wives Club will hold 
its regular meeting on Tuesday 
evening, November 9, 1954. All 
members are urged to atertd.
Every minute that you 
are angry, you lose sixty 
seconds of happiness.
Lost and Found
All lost and found articles 
should be turned in and called 
for at the Dean of Mens Of
fice, AH 150.
wHO ARE
INDUSTRY'S
TOP
YOUNG
SCIENTISTS ?
Ten men between the ages of 26 and 4.0 
were featured in a recent national magazine 
article which presented a portrait of the 
young scientist in America today. These 
particular men are a sample of the mostrbrilliant young scientific minds in industry.
Its interesting to note that three of the 
ten are with Bell Telephone Laboratories, 
three with General Electric and oe each 
with four other companies.
The variety of opportunity in research 
and other phases of telephone work has 
always attracted an unusually high per
centage ol the nations best young men.
Consult your Placement Officer about 
opportunities with Bell Laboratories . . . 
also with the Bell Telephone Companies, 
Western Electric xand Sandia Corporation. 
Your Placement Officer will be glad to 
give you details.
THREE OF THE TEN ARE AT BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES
Mathematician Claude Shannon won fame 
tor his Communication Theory
Physical Chemist William Baker introduced new con* 
cepts that have improved synthetic rubber and fibers
Physicist Herring Is known tor his understanding 
of the quantum mechanic* of the olid sta
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

The intramural program was 
rated as excellent. The intercolleg
iate athletic program was rated 
as good, but the question was 
raised whether the administra
tion can justify the expenditure 
of $49,000 on such a program. This 
figure also includes several thou
sand dollars for the intramural 
program.
The administrative set-up of the 
school was rated as good. The few 
recommendations that were made 
are in essence means of taking 
some of the load off of the presi
dents shoulders. These concern
ed more efficient use of line of
ficers and were not clear in some 
cases.
The admissions and registrars 
offices were rated as good. The 
student health program was con
sidered excellent and the sugges
tion made that chest X-rays be 
made compulsory. The Placements 
Office also received an excellent 
rating.
More Counseling Needed
The report stated that the BuCUDDLE BRENDEL
1216 Wood Run Ave.
off Brighton
Dancing Friday and Saturday 
Jack Mahon and Orchestra
University Bowling Alleys
on Craig St. off Forbes 
OPEN NALLEYS ON 
SATURDAY and SUNDAY
LET'S GO TO
ISA L YS
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 FORBES STREET
SQUIRREL HILL
3714 FORBES STREET
OAKLAND
Maint Plant:
3380 BLVD. of the ALLIES
In the whole wide worldno cigarette satisfies like a
MilkiShaies
VOL .4L8 Ca
Page 12CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, November 3, 1954
Evaluation
[Continued from page 1] 
the schools is considerable. It is 
interesting to hear what other 
people have to say about the 
school, and it gives a means for 
self improvement. There are lim
itations, however. No committee 
could possibly obtain a complete 
view of the schools operations in 
three days. Dr. Warner noted 
several errors in fact, but stated 
that it was an impressive job.
Discussion of Activities 
Perhaps the biggest area of 
discussion was concerning the 
deans and student activities. The 
report made note of the fact there 
is no overall student organiza
tion to control activities. Student 
Council controls the main part of 
the student body, but matters con
cerning the fraternities are han
dled through CFP and those con
cerning dorm students ai'e re
ferred to the dorm councils with 
no overall organization to tie the 
three together.
The report stated that the ex
tra-curricular program lacks in
tegration with the aims and ob
jectives of the school and gives 
the students no real self-govern
ment or leadership experience. A 
faculty and student committee 
has recently been set up to study 
this situation.
The adequacy of the student re
ligious program was also ques
tioned. Since the time ofthe eval
uation this phase of extra-curricu
lar activities has been completely 
reorganized.
Intramurals Commended
reau of Measurement and Guid
ance should be expanded so as to 
afford more time for personal stu
dent counseling and guidance. The 
Public Relations Office was com
mended on its attempt to pub
licize the educational achieve
ments of the school instead of 
placing the emphasis on athletics.
The committee felt that Tech is 
well integrated and the proper 
balance is being held between un
dergraduate, graduate, and re
search work. The problem solving 
method seemed to delight some of 
the visitors and others feared the 
misapplication of the method. Dr. 
Warner stated that the adminis
tration is fully aware of the prob
lem solving techniques limita
tions.
Too Rigid a Program
The curriculum was thought to 
be good but in many cases too 
rigid and too insular. It was felt 
a student should be able to take 
several courses in other depart
ments of his own choosing.
The usual physical plant limita
tions were pointed out. They ob
served the need of a new central 
library, a student union wittfdining facilities, outdoor recreation
al facilities, graduate dormitories, 
more space for the drama and mu
sic departments, more space for 
graduate research projects, and an 
auditorium where the whole stu
dent body could gather. In gen
eral, the housekeeping was con
sidered good.
The department of humanistic 
and social studies came in for conAlumni
[Continued from page 1] 
Stern, Eleanor Bruno, Larry 
Bloom and Bob Livingston will 
give several selections from last 
years Scotch and Soda produc
tion.
Saturdays activities include the 
Alumni Breakfast and Luncheon, 
the game, and a fifth quarter 
after-game cocktail party at the 
Hotel Schenley. The evening will 
be taken up with dinner parties 
arranged by the reunion classes. 
Morewood Gardens will be open 
to the alumni Sunday afternoon 
from 2 till 4.
Registration of the graduates 
will be held in Carnegie Union 
all day Friday and until noon 
Saturday.
siderable praise for not being staid 
and fitting in with objectives of 
the school.
Drama
The drama department is 
now casting for its next play, 
High Tor by Maxwell An
derson. It will be directed by 
Henry Boettcher, head of the 
drama department, and will 
be shown from December 2 
to 11.
TARTAN FOOTBALL ENTRY BLANK
Games of November 6, 1954
Team
CARNEGIE TECH
OHIO STATE
PENN STATE
DARTMOUTH
CORNELL
PRINCETON
DUKE
IOWA
KANSAS
MISSOURI
FLORIDA
GEORGIA TECH
KENTUCKY
NO. CAROLINA
U.C.L.A.
Score Team
------ WASH. & JEFF.
------ PITT v
--------- HOLY CROSS
--------- COLUMBIA
--------- SYRACUSE
--------- HARVARD
--------- NAVY
-------- PURDUE
--------- NEBRASKA
----- COLORADO
--------- GEORGIA
--------- TENNESSEE
--------- VANDERBILT
--------- SOUTH CAROLINA
--------- OREGON
Score
NAME ......................................DEPT.CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to fcompete.
2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final 
score of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct 
decisions; in case of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by 
midnight Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry 
is submitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will 
be announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
6. Winner of each weeks contest will receive a'1954 Thistle subscription, redeemable at the time of publication.
Ilike CHESTERFIELD best! "
Appearing in Track of the Cat", a Warner Bros. Production 
in CinemaScope and Color
BEST FOR YOU.. . no cigarette can satisfy you like 
a Chesterfield, because Chesterfield has the right combination 
of the worlds best tobaccos. Only the tobaccos that are highest 
in quality, low in nicotine, and the most pleasure to smoke.
to Chesterfields now. Smoke them regular or 
Chesterfield is the largest
