Gala Plans Set 
For Fall Carnival
Homecoming Features Coronation, 
Carnegie Day, Game And Dance
Plans for Homecoming, the first all-school weekend of 
the year indicate that it will be packed with interesting 
activity for the entire student body. Beginning with the 
annual Carnegie Day exercises in the Gym at 11:30 a.m. on
^Friday the celebration will
Ron Friedman 
To Head S V S
photo by ToiaHomecoming Queen Candidates
The candidates for freshman Homecoming Queen are shown above. Seated left to right, stand
ing: Sherry Ahlers, clothing and textiles; Susan Stryker, clothing and textiles Joanne Lacey, psycholo
gy and social science. Sitting: Gayle Saxon, secretarial studies; Rita Menke, home economics. The can
didates will be presented in Skibo today at 11:30 a.m. Elections are next Tuesday, November 2, in 
Skibo from 11:30 to 1:30.
VOL. 48No. 6 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., OCT. 26, 1954
Council Carries On 
Quorumless Meeting
By James J. Murphy
Operating without a quorum, Student Council at its last meeting 
set up a special committee to investigate the finances of the Thistle, 
discussed some of President Warners suggestions regarding the 
possibility of a new Student Union, and passed a motion reading, 
During these hours when an all-* 
school event is taking place, no
fraternity may serve beer, pop, or 
any other form of refreshment be
tween the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 
11:00 p.m., and no organization 
may fine their members for miss
ing any form of meeting if said 
meeting takes place during the. 
all-school event.
The meeting started with a talk 
by Mr. Paul Denise, regional di
rector for the World University 
Service, who discussed Campus 
Chest, its meaning to the student, 
and better ways to organize and 
run a Chest campaign. Mr. Cy 
Kelman, this years drive chair
man, reported that plans for an 
all-school dance in connection with 
the campaign had to be cancelled 
due to a conflict with the varsity s 
night game at St. Vincent.
Student Union
President George Miley reported 
on a meeting he had with Dr. War
ner concerning Councils resolu
tion in favor of the administration 
building a new student union and 
Centralized library in the near fu
ture. Dr. Warner stated that 
maintenance and other costs would 
probably make it necessary to add a Student Union Fee of ten or fif
teen dollars to the-present tuition 
rates.
Dr. Warner also approved of Mr. 
Mileys suggestion that Student 
Council attempt to raise funds for 
[Continued on page 8]
Organizations
All organizations, honoraries, fraternities and publica
tions are requested to submit a 
list of officers and staff mem
bers to the Dean of Mens of
fice as soon as possible.
Campus Chests 
Publicity Stunt 
Arouses Interest
Attention, Mr. and Miss J. Q. 
Student! Flash  Carnegie Tech 
swamped by ? Cf C. engraved 
on red hearts. In tfte past seven 
days these fantastic symbols have 
emerged from nowhere and 
puzzled the Tech student body. 
What in the world do these *? C. 
C. hearts signify? has been the 
chief question on campus this 
week.
Well, heres the answera pub
licity stunt for Campus Chest. The 
Chest drive begins on Thursday, 
October 28. Solicitations will be 
made in individual classes by 
members of ^those classes. Each 
solicitor will make an appeal em
phasizing the two basic points un
derlying this years campaign. 
These are:
a.) Each of us, as a student at 
Tech) is a citizen of the school 
and city community, and there
fore has a responsibility to sup
port those charities which depend 
on volunteer giving in aiding 
those less fortunate than our
selves. Thus, we build a more sta
ble and healthier future;
b.) No total goal has been es
tablished. This years Chest com
mittee suggests that each of us 
consider an individual goalthat 
of one days tuition. (This, of 
course, does not mean that those 
unable to donate one days tui
tion should not donate at all. By 
all means they should give what
ever they can.)
The importance of the Campus 
Chest cannot be over-emphasized. 
Someday, although we hope that 
day will never come, one of us
Social Members
All girls at Tech who are 
affiliated with national sorori
ties not represented on this 
campus are requested to sign 
up in the Dean of Womens 
office.
These girls are' eligible for 
social - membership only in 
Techs seven sororities. The 
Deans list will be used by the 
sororities as an indication of 
those interested in social 
membership.
Committee Set 
For Activities
The formation of a student commitee for the survey of extra
curricular student life has been 
announced. This committee is to 
review and evaluate student life 
and extra-curricular activities on 
the CIT campus. It will try to 
present both the favorable and 
unfavorable side of the non-aca
demic phases of the students life.
This commitee will work in con
junction with the faculty commit
tee undertaking the same project 
but work will proceed autonom
ously. It will then draw up a 
report to be submitted to Dr. War
ner.
Harvey White has been selected 
to serve as chairman for the group. 
He is a fifth year architectual stu
dent who has served as president 
of Beta Sigma Rho and the Coun
cil of Fraternity Presidents. Other 
members of the committee include
Joanne Boyd, Paul Carmichael, 
Richard Christensen, Theodore 
Fusco, Barbara Hall, Philip Jeske, 
Betsy Leonard, George Leonard, 
George Miley, Patricia Naugle, 
Marjorie Penney, Anthony Ruffa, 
Wayne Smith, Joseph Szewc, and 
Janice Yent.
This year, Scotch n Soda is 
proud to acclaim Ron Friedman, a 
senior in the department of arch
itecture, as its 1954-1955 presi
dent. Actively participating in the 
past four SnS shows, Ron is no 
newcomer to either Scotch n 
Soda or the dramtic arts.
A resident of Pittsburgh, Ron 
entered the department of archi
tecture four years ago. During 
this time his name has appeared 
regularly on the Deans list and 
he has established himself as a 
consistent contributor to the Scot.
Ronr interest in the theatre has 
taken him far from the drawing 
board. Last summer, he worked 
as assistant to a New York scene 
designer at one of Americas larg
est musical comedy theatres. At 
that time, he designed a show, 
and was even called upon for 
small acting assignments.
A Tech first will be made 
when High Tor, the second ma
jor production of the drama de
partment, opens in December. Ron 
Friedman is the designer . . . and 
the only person outside of the 
drama department to work on a 
major show. His imagination and 
dramatic insight qualified his de
signs for the production.
With all of his experience be
hind it, Scotch n Soda is certain 
to have a very prosperous and 
successful year. When it comes to 
SnS, Ron is a perfectionist. Many 
long hours will be spent ironing 
out the smallest difficulties un
til the caliber is reached which 
Ron feels is of credit to the club.
This year the club will attempt 
many new and different things, 
and, as Ron has said, there is 
nothing that we cant do. With a 
man as active and gifted as Ron, 
and with the very capable staff 
which he has at his command, the 
club will endeavor to bring about 
many things which previous or
ganizations have only dreamed of.
j continue until early morning 
Sunday.
The crowning of the Home
coming queen, attended by her 
court, will be the highlight of the 
Carnegie Day exercises. She will 
reign over the festivities of the 
weekend and officially open it 
during the program. This year 
will see a different type of cam
paign for Homecoming queen. The 
number of candidates has been 
cut to five. They were selected at 
a meeting of all freshmen girls on 
Monday, October 18. The candi
dates will be presented in Skibo 
today at 11:30 a.m. to give the 
male portion of the campus a 
chance to see tnem. Voting will 
take place on Tuesday, Novem
ber 2.
Varsity Varieties
Friday afternoon the seven 
sororities on campus will each 
present a short skit depicting 
comic strip characters in the rec
reation room of Morewood Gar
dens. This is a change from previ
ous years .vhen Varsity Varieties 
was staged in the Gym. This 
event will be judged and awards 
made at the Homecomng Dance.
Prior to the pep-rally the fra
ternity displays will be judged. 
The final selections have been 
made and the fraternities and 
Mens Dorm Council have al
ready begun construction. The 
prizes, first, second, and third will 
be awarded during intermission 
of the dance on Saturday night. 
They will be judged on the theme 
of comic strips, welcome alumni, 
and beat W. and J.
Judges Selected
Three CIT alumni have been 
[Continued on page 3]
may need the help of one of the 
charities benefited by this drive. 
It is therefore the hope of the 
Campus Chest committee that 
each student on campus will ask 
[Continued on page 8]
Dr. Fritz Zernike, 
Nobel Prize-Holder 
To Speak Nov. 4
Dr. Fritz Zernike, the only 
physicist in recent years to win 
a Nobel prize for scientific 
achievement outside the field of 
nuclear physics, will deliver a 
lecturd to physics, chemistry and 
metallurgy students on Novem 
ber 4. He will tell how phase 
contrast was discoverea.
The Nobel prize-winner, who is 
professor of theoretical physics at 
the University of Groningen in 
Holland, is currently touring the 
United States.
Dr. Zernikes work in physical 
optics on the theory of image for
mation began in 1932 and led to 
the invention and development of 
the phase contract microscope, the 
device which permits biologists to
study living microbes without stitution is to add to the killing or staging them. Recent 
advances in medical science would 
be impossible without the phase 
contrast microscope.
The Zernike galvanometer and 
improvements in spectroscopy and 
the electro-magnet are also results 
of his work. In 1953, he received 
the Nobel prize in physics for his
Walter J. Reppe, 
German Chemist, 
To Speak Nov. 9
Dr. Walter J. Reppe, Koppers 
visiting professor from West Ger
many, will deliver two lectures on 
acetylene chemistry on Novem
ber 9 at the thirtteenth confer
ence under Carnegies plan for 
service to industry through fundamental research.
Devoted to current research, 
the conferences are presented by 
members of Carnegie Techs en
gineering and science faculty. 
Subject for conference 13 is 
Synthetic Organic Chemistry. 
Other speakers will be Professor 
Philip L. Southwick on New 
Procedures For Synthesis, and 
Professor Robert B. Carlin on 
Some Structural Studies.
The Fundamental Research 
Conferences, initiated in 1951 to 
foster cross-fertilization of sci
entific ideas are only one phase 
of Carnegies plan to serve indus
try with new basic knowledge. 
The plan also provides annual 
research reports from the Col
leges of Engineering and Science, 
which describe Current projects 
in industry, mathematics and 
physics, and in the various de
partments of engineering. Includ
ed are titles of scientific papers 
published by faculty members 
during the past five years. Cop
ies of doctoral theses are also 
made available.
One of the functions of Car
negie Tech as an educational inervoir
of fundamental knowledge 
through basic research in engi
neering and science, remarked 
President Warner. The institu
tion is free to seek new knowl
edge, new ideas, new generaliza
tions and theories without limita
tions. Carnegies work is not
I bounded by practical utility, yet
contributions to the theory of j much of what it has found is po-optical image formation. | tentially useful to industry.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 26, 1954
Science Club 
To Run Open 
House Displays
The Science Club of Margaret 
Morrison, in cooperation with the 
administration and committee for 
Open House, which is being held 
today on campus, has arranged 
exhibits and demonstrations in 
the college laboratories in order 
to acquaint visiting students with 
the laboratories and facilities 
available at Carnegie Tech.
Nancy Bloom, Marty McCleery, 
Shirley Leone, Jean Ward, and 
Maryann Mikan will conduct the 
prospective students through the 
chemistry and physics laborator
ies of Margaret Morriso Pl where 
exhibits, including the nr.** Lng of 
rayon, synthesis of wintergreen, 
an ammonia fountain, deferential 
dying, waterproofing, and electro
plating, have been set up.
Diane Farrington, president of 
the Science Club, has as her gen
eral committee Judy HirscHfield, 
Ginny Schultz, Penny Wilhelm, 
Lee Hess, and Ruth Mutschler. In 
charge of the experiments are 
Joyce Innes, Jean Simpson, Suzie 
Scrafford, Elisabeth Mirsky, Leanore, Richel, Nancy Kraus, Mary 
Murrin, Lois Griffin, Martha 
Purschinger, Dotty Walton, Gaile 
Ventresca, and Marilyn Tallant.
Miss Angela Pollis, adviser to 
the group, will be available in the 
laboratory for consultation with 
the students.
0
1f your hands rejoice in the precise balance of a fine gun or the 
sweet response of a racing sloop 
. . . then you owe yourself an hour with 
the Chevrolet Corvette.
Youll find it is, quite literally, like no 
other car in the worlda heart-lifting blend 
of the true sports car with all that is best 
in American engineering.
There is the velvet smoothness of a 
Powerglide automatic transmission (but 
with the classic floor selector-lever).
The trouble-free durability of a Chev
rolet Bhie-Flame engine (but with three 
side draft carburetors to unleash its flash
ing 150 horsepower).
The ruggedness of an X-braced box 
girder frame (but with the astonishing im
pact resistance of a glass-fiber-and-plastic 
body).
Luxurious seating for driver and passen
ger in deep foam rubber (but cradled in 
the traditional security of bucket seats).
Generous luggage room, the panoramic' 
sweep of a deeply curved windshield, the 
flair of tomorrows styling (but within the 
polo-pony compactness of a real road car).
The Corvette blends all this and more. 
For it is a drivers car ... a low-slung 
torpedo with a center of gravity only 18 
inches above the concrete .. . with outrig
ger rear springs that make it hold to the 
road like a stripe of paint. .. with a 16 to
Make a date to drive the
1 steering ratio that puts needle-threading 
accuracy at your finger tips.
Frankly, the Corvette is a limited edi
tion, made only in small numbers. It is 
intended only for the man or woman to 
whom driving is not just transportation but 
an exhilarating adventure, a sparkling chal
lenge to skill and judgment. If you are one 
of these, then you owe yourself an hour 
with a Chevrolet Corvette.
Call us now and let us set up a demon
stration run ... for in a short 60 minutes 
you can discover that motoring has a 
whole new dimension of delight.
Chevrolet Corvette
150-h.p. overhead-valve engine with three side draft carburetors  Four-leaf outrigger springs 
in rear  Powerglide automatic transmission  Center-Point steering, 16 to 1 ratio  Formfitting individual seats  Full instrumentation, with tachometer, oil pressure gauge, and ammeter.
YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER
|-f you drive -for the sheer zest of it
you owe yourself this hour!Football
Statistics
TECH EDINBORO
14.................... First Downs .................... 8
241............. Rushing Yardage ............. 69
9........... Passes Attempted ...... 13
 1........... Passes Completed .............. 8
 2........ Passes Intercepted ...... 2
8................ Passing Yardage ...............113
 3....................... Punts .......................... 4
34................ Punting Average...............32
2.... Ball Lost on Fumbles .... 1
23................ Yards Penalized ............... 65
ErrataSixteen Freshmen Score 90 
Or Better On Traditions Exam
E&S
Fine Arts
MMCC
Fine Arts
MMCC
MMCC
MMMCCFine Arts
MMCC
MMCC
MMCC
MMCC
MMCC
MMCC
E&S
MMCC
By Bob Russel!
The attendance at the Traditions Test this year was better than 
average, with approximately 90% of the freshman girls and a large 
percentage of the boys taking the test. The traditional questions 
asked included the whereabouts of various campus offices and build
ings, the school songs and yells,? 
the names of the social fraternities and some honoraries, the 
name of our plaid, and the first 
president of Tech.
Now that the results have been 
announced, it appears that the 
girls did better as a group than 
the boys. Eighty-six of the 200 
freshman girls scored 70 or above, 
as compared with only 57 who 
passed, out of approximately 550 
freshman boys. However, the 
highest score, 99, was posted by 
Thomas Allen, a civil engineering 
student from Swissvale. The high
est ranking girl was Elizabeth 
Neumann, a home ec major from 
Scranton, Pa., who scored 95. 
Both will receive 1955 Thistles as 
their awards.
Stumbling Blocks
The questions most often miss
ed were the location of the Lost 
and Found office, the names of 
the deans, and the honoraries 
matching questions. It was es
pecially noticed that very few 
boys knew the name of the Dean 
of Women.
Following is a list of those scor
ing 91 or better:
Thomas Allen 
Neil Bernstein 
Elizabeth Neumann 
Hilda Green 
Joyce McConnell Becky Young 
Barbara Covert 
Mitsuo Kazaoka Ruth Knott 
Eleanor Manley 
Marthena McCleery Dorothy Walton 
Antoinette Alex Nancy Braden 
Morgan Edwards Rolinda Hurwick
AIEE And ASME 
Join Together 
In Lecture Series
Two of the student professional 
societies on the Carnegie Tech 
campus have joined together in 
presenting a program aimed at the 
seniors. The student chapters of 
the American Institute of Electri
cal Engineers and the American 
Society of Mechanical Engineers 
have planned a series of about five 
meetings during the first semester. 
These meetings will feature a 
speaker from industry who will 
explain exactly what an engineer 
in that industry does.
This program is pointed mainly 
at the seniors in order they might 
have a better idea what engineer
ing jobs in certain industries 
require. It is hoped that the stu
dent will then have a better idea 
of what companies to apply for 
interviews with.
The first in the series will be 
held tomorow night when Mr. 
James Edwards of Proctor and 
Gamble will speak on The Engi
neer in the Packaging Field at 
8:00 p. m. in 231 AH. Refresh
ments are planned following the 
meeting at the Beta Theta Pi 
fraternity house.
Above is shown Stan Rosenberg performing at the football game 
last Saturday,^ He was trying to drum up interest in Homecoming.
An error appeared in the 
October 19 issue of the TAR
TAN in the story concerning 
the 1954-1955 plans of the 
Tech chapter of the Hillel 
Foundation.
The statement that discus
sion groups plan to meet at 
the Faculty Club is erroneous. 
Although faculty leadership of 
the groups is planned, no 
meeting place has as yet been 
chosen. Harvey Breverman, 
president, stated that the 
chapter is aware- of the policy 
of the Faculty Club in rela
tion to the admission of stu
dent organizations.
Felioivship Open 
To Mortar Board
Active Members
Mortar Board announces the 
Katherine Wills Coleman Fellow
ship available for the academic 
year 1955-56. The fellowship 
carries an award of $500.00.
Any active member of a Mortar 
Board chapter for this year, 1954- 
55, is eligible if she can qualify as 
a candidate for a degree beyond 
the Bachelors degree in an ac
cepted university. The candidate 
may request to have the fellow
ship awarded either the year of 
her graduation or the year follow
ing. It may be awared in addi
tion to any other fellowships or 
assistantships she may have.
Further information and appli
cation blanks may be obtained by 
writing to Mrs. Holcombe T. 
Green, Mortar Board Fellowship 
Chairman, 567 Peachtree Avenue, 
N. W., Atlanta, Georgia, before 
January 5, 1955.
NYLON BIT
Guar3ntsed
Bite-Proof.
MEDICOJUma fllater
Medicos filter strains smoke of nicotine, juices, tars, flakes. When filter turns brown, throw it away with all the impurities it has trapped. Replace with fresh filter for mild, mellow smoking.
Actual pip has your own college letter on bowl

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 26, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
On Campos
HOME, SWEET HOMECOMING
A great number of people have been asking me lately, What is Homecoming. Yesterday, for example, as I walked from my house 
an s s i Sigafoos, the local lepidopterist wherehad left a half dozen luna moths to be mounted  a distance of no more than three blocks  Ill wager that well over a thousand people stopped me and said, What is Homecoming?
Well, what with company coming for dinner and the cook down with a recurrence of breakbone fever, I could not tarry to answer
TMir^qneSn0nu <RT?d my column next week, I cried to them. Ill tell all about Homecoming. With that I brushed past and raced home to baste the mallard and apply poultices to the cook, who, despite my unending ministrations, expired quietly during the night, a woman in her prime, scarcely 108 years old. Though her passing grieved me, it was some satisfaction to be able to grant her last wih to be buried at sea  which is no small task when you live in Pierre, South Dakota.
With the dinner guests fed and the cook laid to her watery rest, I put out the cat and turned to the problem of Homecoming.
First of all, let us define Homecoming. Homecoming is a weekend when old graduates return to their alma maters to see a football game, ingest great quantities of food and drink, and inspect each others bald spots.
This occasion is marked by the singing of old songs, the slapping of old backs, and the frequent utterance of such outcries as Harry, you old polecat! or Harry, you old rooster! or Harry, you old wombat! or Harry, you old mandrill! All old grads are named Harry.
During Homecoming the members of the faculty behave with unaccustomed animation. They laugh and smile and pound backs and keep shouting, Harry, you old retriever! These unscholarly actions are performed in the hope that the old grads, in a transport of bonhomie, will endow a new geology building.
The old grads, however, are seldom seduced. By game time on Saturday, their backs are so sore, their eyes so bleary, and their livers so sluggish that it is impossible to get a kind word out of them, much less a new geology building. Hmphh! they snort as the home team completes a 101 yard march to a touchdown. Call that football? Why, ^ack in my day theyd have been over on the first down. By George, football was football back in those days  not this namby pamby girls game that passes for football today. Why, look at that bench. Fifty substitutes sitting there! Why, in my day, there were eleven men on a team and that was it. When you broke a leg, you got taped up and went right back in. Why, I remember the big game against State. Harry Wallaby, our star quarterback, was killed in the third quarter. I mean he was pronounced dead. But did that stop old Harry? Not on your tintype! Back in he went and kicked the winning drop-kick in the last four seconds of play, dead as he was. Back in my day, they played football, by George! Everything, say the old grads, was better back in their day  everything except one. Even the most unreconstructed of the old grads has to admit that back in his day they never had a smoke like todays vintage Philip Morris  never anything so mild and pleasing, day in day out, at study or at play, in sunshine or in showfer, on grassy bank or musty taproom, afoot or ahorse, at home or abroad, any time, any weather, anywhere.
I take up next another important aspect of Homecoming  the decorations in front of the fraternity house. Well do I remember one Homecoming of my undergraduate days. The game was against Princeton. The Homecoming slogan was Hold That Tiger! Each fraternity house built a decoration to reflect that slogan, and on the morning of the game a group of dignitaries toured Fraternity Row to inspect the decorations and award a prize for the best.The decoration chairman at our house was an enterprising young man named Rex Sigafoos, nephew of the famous lepidopterist. Rex surveyed Fraternity Row, came back to our house and said, All the other houses are building cardboard cages with cardboard tigers inside of them. We need to do something different  and Ive got it. Were going to have a real cage with a real tiger inside of it  a snarling, clawing, slashing, real live tiger!Crikey! we breathed. But where will you get him?Ill borrow him from the zoo, said Rex, and sure enough, he did. Well sir, you can imagine what a sensation it was on Homecoming morning. The judges drove along nodding politely at cardboard tigers in cardboard cages and suddenly they came to our house. No sham beast in a sham cage here! No sir! A real tiger in a real cage  a great striped jungle killer who slashed and roared and snarled and dashed himself against the bars of his cage with mani
acal fury.There can be no doubt that we would have easily taken first prize had not the tiger knocked out the bars of the cage and leaped into the official car and devoured Mr. August Schlemmer, the governor of the state, Mr. Wilson Ardsley Devereaux, president of the university, Dr. O. P. Gransmire, author of A Treasury of the Worlds Great Southpaws: An Anthology of Left Hand Literature, Mr. Harrison J. Teed, commissioner of weights and measures, Mrs. Amy Dorr Nesbitt, inventor of the clarinet, Mr. Jarrett Thrum, worlds 135 pound lacrosse champion, Mr. Peter Bennett Hough, editor of the literary quarterly Spasm, and Mrs. Ora Wells Anthony, first woman to tunnel under the North Platte River. m*x shuiman. 1954
This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS who think you would enjoy their cigarette.
Student Chorus 
Gives Concert
The student chorus will present 
its first concert of the year on 
Sunday, November 7 with a ren
dition of Igor Stravinskys Mass 
lor mixed voices.
The student chorus is under the 
direction of Roland Leich, associ
ate professor of music. Also on the 
program are Joios The Mystic 
Trumpeter, accompanied by a 
I'rench horn, and Motets Jesu, 
Joy and Treasure, accompanied 
by a string ensemble. Stravin
skys Mass will be sung to the 
accompaniment of a double wind 
quintet.
The concert will be held in the 
Carnegie Theatre at 8:30 p.m. At
tendance is free to the public. 
Tickets can be acquired in the 
music department office.
Steve Horensky 
Appointed ROTC 
Regimental CO
The ROTC department has an
nounced thn designation of Steph
en W. Horensky, an electrical en
gineering senior, as a distinguish
ed military student and his se
lection as regimental commander 
of the Tech ROTC. He holds the 
cadet rank of full *fcolonel.
Battalion commanders were al
so announced. Philip Jeske, print
ing management senior and quar
terback for the football team, will 
command the first battalion. The 
second battalion will be lead by 
Edward N. Miller, who is half
back on the Tartan squad and is 
studying civil engineering. A sen
ior studying metallurgy, David L. 
Raymer, will head the third 
ROTC battalion.
WRCTs Career 
Hour Provides 
Music, Job News
To alt the overworked students 
in our listening audience, one 
question: Did you ever try to study 
by music? If so, youll be glad to 
hear about the Career Hour, 
WRCTs program of music for 
study. And if youre not a devotee 
of study music, you soon will be 
if you will just give it a try. In 
fact ,it is a proven psychological 
fact that the relaxing brand of 
classics and semiclassics that you 
will hear on Career Hour is very 
conducive to all kinds of mental 
activity. It really makes thinking 
a lot easier, if not a pleasure!
Study music is not the only fea
ture of the Career Hour either. 
Sponsored by Career Publications 
in cooperation with CITs Place
ment Bureau, this program per
forms a real service in giving 
resumes of career opportunities 
awaiting upperclassmen in busi
ness and industry; job openings 
in leading firms all over the coun
try are offered to those who 
qualify. So if you are interested 
in securing a good position in busi
ness or industry in the near future, 
just keep your radio dial turned 
to 670 at 9:00 p. m. Monday 
through Friday for Techs listen
ing post for job opportunities.
Due to lack of student participa
tion, the twice weekly feature of 
station WRCT, Campus Hilights, 
will be dropped from the broad
cast schedule after October 31. The 
program was intended as a source 
of intramural scores and news, as 
well as any other news from any 
campus social or scholastic organi
zation. If in the future, a demand 
for such a program appears, it will 
be reinstated in the schedule, and 
until such time the station will 
broadcast such news on a limited 
basis only, at times to be decided 
upon by the program department, 
and on advance notice only.
Mambo U.S.A.
To Be Featured 
At Syria Mosque
An all new mambo-rumba show 
which comes to Syria Mosque on 
Friday, October 29 at 8:30 p.m. is 
known as Mambo U.S.A. and 
features the outstanding LatinAmerican stars of music, song and 
dance. On the stage will be Joe 
Locco and, his Quintet, Machito 
and his Orchestra, Carlos Ramirez, 
and the Facunda Rivero Quintet.
The authentic Latin dances will 
be demonstrated by the Arthur 
Murray dancers plus the worlds 
finest mambo-rumba dance teams 
who will dance the mambo and the 
rumba as they should be danced.
All this plus the versatile com
edy of Tun Tun which has gained 
him the title of the Prince of 
Mirth.
A two hour show packed with 
music, song and dancing. A lively 
entertaining show with r ' aunting 
rhythm you will like and enjoy. A 
great show for all.
Tickets are now on sale at the 
R. E. Baltz Agency, Volkweins, 632 
Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh 22, Pa., 
ATlantic 1-2196, and also at Gimbels and Hornes. Mail orders are 
accepted. Send check or money 
order to R. E. Baltz Agency and 
include self addressed stamped en
velope for the return of your 
tickets. Prices are $1.50, $2.00, 
$2.50, $3.00 and $3.50 including tax.
Tartan
Anyone interested in work
ing on the CARNEGIE TAR
TAN should report next Fri
day evening, October 29, to 
the TARTAN office on the 
third floor of the Carnegie 
Union at 7:30 p.m. There are 
many positions open. Report
ers, photographers headline 
writers, and sports reporters 
are needed. If you can not 
make this meeting call Paul 
Carmichael at Mu 3-2312 any 
evening.
Homecoming Program
Thursday, November 4
* 6:00 p.m.Varsity Clan Cocktail Party and Dinner ....
........................................ Park Schenley Restaurant
Friday, November 5
* 9:00 a.m.Registration for alumni .............. Camergie Union
12:30 p.m.Carnegie Day exercises ................ Gymnasium
2:30 p.m.Varsity Varieties.......................................................
...................... Morewood Gardens Recreation Room
* 4:00 p.m.Homecoming Reception and Tea.. Carnegie Union
* 6:00 p.m.Homecoming Party ................ Hotel Webster Hall
6:00 p.m.Judging of fraternity displays begins
6:45 p.m.Parade begins front of Fine Arts Building 
7:30 p.m.Pep RallyTech Bowl 
8:30 p.m.Open House at all fraternities 
Saturday, November 6
* 9:00 a.m.Registration continues at Carnegie Union
* 9:00 a.m.Alumni Breakfast and Alumni Council Meeting
..................Morewood Gardens Dormitory Cafeteria
*12:00 p.m.Homecoming Luncheon.......................... Gymnasium
2:00 p.m.Football Game, Carnegie vs. Washington and Jef
ferson  Forbes Field
* 4:30 p.m.Cocktail and Social Hour..............Hotel Schenley
* 6:30 p.m.Reunion Dinners
9:00 p.m.Homecoming Dance, Baron Elliot and Benny
Benack Orchestras........................................Gymnasium
,*11:00 p.m.Intermission at Homecoming Dance, Awards 
Sunday, November 7 
*2:00 to 4:00 p.m.Open House at Morewood Gardens 
?Alumni Functions
H omecoming
[Continued from page I] 
selected, with the help of the 
alumni office, to do the judging. 
None of these are in any way af
filiated with any participating or
ganization. The names will be an
nounced later. During the judging 
members of ODK will check to 
see that adequate fire protection 
facilities have been provided.
The traditional Friday evenfhg 
pep-rally will be held in the Tech 
bowl at 7:30 p.m. At this time the 
fraternity pledge classes will com
pete in a contest of original 
cheers.  The usual songs and 
cheers wll be led by the band and 
cheerleaders.
Football Game
Saturday afternoon at 2:30 p.m. 
the Tech football team will take 
on the Presidents of Washington 
and Jefferson in the annual Home
coming football game at Forbes 
Field. Before the game the Kiltie 
Band and ROTC honor guard will
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS 
 TRY US FIRST 
Oakland. Hardware
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
One Stop 
Service
SHIRTS
WASHED and 
PRESSED ON OUR 
NEW PRESSES
ROUGH DRY LAUNDRY 
DRY CLEANING
One Hour Service 
if Desired
ALL WORK DONE ON 
OUR PREMISES
CAMPUS
Cleaners
4609 Forbes St.
escort the Homecoming queen to 
the field.
The culmination of the weekend 
will be the semi-formal dance in 
the gym. Dancing in the big gym 
will be to the danceable strains of 
Baron Elliott and Benny Benack. 
Baron Elliott and his 12 piece or
chestra will play in the main 
Gym while Benny Benack will 
play jazz in Thistle Hall. Refresh
ments will be on sale in Thistle 
Hall.
Dance Planned
The awards for the weekend 
will be announced at the intermis
sion time. These will be for the 
fraternity house decoration Var
sity Varieties, and the pledge 
cheer. The dance is planned io 
satisfy everyone at a reasonable 
cost. Tickets can be obtained in 
Skibo from 11:30 at $2.75 per 
couple.
In conjunction with theNstudent 
activities there is also a cohnplete 
program planned for the return
ing alumni. The highlight of this 
program will be the Homecoming 
luncheon in the Gym on Friday 
at 12:00 p.m.
|-fyma*0*
New**5ilvered-Tlp" writes 
the way you do . . . fin, 
medium or broad ..'. with
out changing points. Re
fills available in blue, red, 
green or black ink. Get a 
Paper-Mate Pen today I
 Bankers approve
 Ink cant smear 
or tranafsr
 Cant leak
Silvered-Tip 
filila... 49
Fair
Trad4

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 26, 1954
Editorials
Campus Chest
The Campus Chest committee of Student Council de
serves recognition for its work so far this year. In previous 
years the Campus Chest campaign, like so many other proj
ects around campus, has been a miserable flop. For the past 
several years a goal of $1000 has been set but never attained. 
This goal amounted to each student giving about thirty cents 
on the average. The campaigns were not organized and very 
little publicity was given to them. This year the situation is 
much better. A staff of about 50 are doing their best to sell 
the project to the students. Publicity is being handled very 
effectively.
The campaign itself is a very worthwhile endeavor. It is 
the only time during the year that students are asked to con
tribute to charities. By working under one campaign the ex
penses of the campaign are reduced which means more money 
actually reaches the charities. But now that the Campus 
Chest committee is doing a good job the responsibility rests 
with you, the individual student. It is your job to contribute 
money and pledges. The committee has set no fixed goal but 
suggest you contribute one days tuition. How successful this 
campaign has been will not be known until all contributions 
are in. Do your part to swell the campus chest. The best or
ganization and publicity can do a lot to make the campaign 
a success, but in the final analysis it depends on the indi
vidual students interest and contributions.
This year no goal has been set. Each individual is being 
asked to give one days tuition. A carton of cigarettes or one 
weekly trip to the Greeks is very little for each student to 
give up so that others, not so fortunate, may live. It is your 
job to contribute the money. When contacted by the repre
sentative from Campus Chest do not hesitate to dig down 
deep. Do your part to help sweH the Campus Chest.
WRCT 
SCHEDULE
Cross Country
The procedure of starting and finishing the cross-country 
race at Forbes Field while the football game was in progress 
was a good one. It gave the people in attendance at the game 
an opportunity to see the start and the finish of one of the less
er known sports on campus. Not only this but it gave the 
cross-country team more support that it has probably ever 
had before. The sight of the first three Tech runners crossing 
the finish line set the fans cheering.
Carnegie has excelled in this sport for years. Until de
feated this season the team had gone undefeated for three 
consecutive years. This year the. team lost to a strong Geneva 
team and Slippery Rock. The defeat of West Virginia should 
by no means be taken lightly. They have one of the toughest 
teams the Tech Harriers have faced in years. The team has 
an excellent chance of winning Tri-State honors again this 
year.
But no matter how the cross - country team fares dur
ing the rest of the season, the idea of starting the meet 
last weekend at Forbes Field was commendable. It gave the 
students a chance to see a sport very few had ever seen be
fore and support to the team. Other means such as this should 
be investigated to increase interest in other sports such as 
swimming and tennis.
P.D.C.
Tuesday
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Serenade in Blue 
7:30Radio Federation 
8:00The Masters Per
form 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off
Wednesday 
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Campus Hilights 
7:30Montovani 
8:00Musical History 
9:45Democratic Cam
paign
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off 
Thursday 
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Serenade in Blue 
7:30Radio Federation 
8:00Ye Olde Curiosity 
Shoppe 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off 
Friday 
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Navy Star Time
7:30Radio Federation 
8:30Proudly We Hail 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor Hour11:00News 
11:05TGIF Club 
11:55Sign Off 
Sunday 
1:45Sign on, News 
2:00WRCT Symphony 
Hour 
3:00Sunday Pops 
Concert 
5:30Freelance 
6:00News
6:05Album of Favor
ites
7:00Penthouse Seren
ade 
8:00News 
8:05Concert Hall 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off
Monday
7:00Sign on, News 
7:15Campus Hilights 
7:30Radio Federation 
8:30French Masterworks 
9:00Career Hour 
10:00RCA Victor Hour 
11:00News 
11:05Night Train 
11:55Sign Off
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hours MUseum 3-2312, for advertising and subscription rates 
call MUseum 2-3990. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ..........................................................................................................Paul Carmichael
Executive Editor .................................................................................................................Wilson Sick
Business Manager ..................................................................................................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor ..................................................................................................................Jo Forsythe
News Editor ....................................................................................................................June SochatofT
Sports Editor ..............................................................................................................Lenny Feldman
Copy EditorBob Russell. Advertising ManagerMarty Ostroff. Assistant 
Business ManagerVic Shiry. Circulation ManagerDon Gross. Office Manager
 Joyce Wright. Photography EditorBarbara Toia. Features EditorJoe Szwec. 
ReportersMarilyn Casey, Stephanie Mackay, Anne Mehler, Pat Mitchell, Dottle 
Scarf, Joanne Babbitt, Marjo King, Arthur Marino, Barbara Robeson, Carolou 
Fidder, Sally Day, Peggy Heath. Dolores Chidester, Evelyn Alessio, Janet Bishop, 
Kay Melenyzer, Juli Wehousie. Sports StaffJames Lacey. Art StaffCarolyn 
Copp, Harold MacDonald, Robert Connell. Make-Up StaffTom Wright, Jack 
Recker, Paul Doebler, Hayden Duensing. Advertising StaffRobert Sorkin, Harly 
Bembach, Frank Zonis, Herbert Kriendler. Circulation StaffSheldon Cremer,
Barry Reisman. TypistsMary Langdon, Anne Barnes, Marjorie Forster. Capy 
RunnerRonald KohL
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate 
of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions $1.10 
per year.
The Observer
Lets face it, senior engineers; youre behind an 
eight ball.
You dont belong there  but youre there nev
ertheless, and its your shot.
That wild crashing and trampling you may have 
been hearing above our familiar E&S educational 
ruckus heralds the arrival of a desperate scientific 
camp-following that will plague your incomes for 
the rest of your professional lives. There is sur
prisingly little room for speculation. The industrial 
carpetbaggers are headed our way. And theyll ar
rive in June to seek you out, one by one.
The march is on. Industry is recruiting the 
talked-out critic, the punchless Spillane, the museless poets, and tired pulp writers, the copy-dead ad 
men, the carpet baggersany one capable of put
ting anything with a trace of literacy on paper. 
Spanking technological life into every dozen new 
engineers provides economic security for at least 
one technical writer, without whom the babes would 
never ripen to professional maturity. This means 
that hard-won salaries of the 12 must be pared 
equally and immediately to compensate the writer 
perhaps a high school band director who has 
grown weary of standing.
Theres little doubt about it. Engineers hesitate 
to reap the benefits of their own tedious and exr 
pensive labors. Each insists upon sharing his pro
fessional status and economic success with an ap
preciative and jobless nomad of the literary world. 
You are all social workers, not by choice but by 
direction. No two per hundred of you can write.
An eastern turbine producer employs develop
ment proceedures that illustrate the point. En
gineers A, B, arrd C tentatively design a new model 
steam turbine; writer D accepts their data, organ
izes it report-wise and submits it for approval; en
gineers A, B, and C build their turbine; after an 
extensive sitting in with A, B, and C, writer E 
compiles a book of instructions for the buyer, with
out which the turbine would be useless.
Here is the interesting point. Writers D and E 
earn as much, if not .more than development en
gineers A, B, and C. A, B, and C could have pro
duced the report and instruction book as a matter 
of course had they been expressively competent. 
Remember writers D and E are less familiar with 
entropy and enthalpy than poet Doug Malloch who 
wrote:
Heres the secret of the riddle for successes 
everwhere
Theres some little second fiddle that is 
carrying the air 
Through the mists of CITs E&S liberal arts 
program will march the graduating scientists of 55
__relatively healthy mathematicians and stress
analysts, but feeble spectres in the expressive arts. 
There remains a chance to develop the skills of 
ordering written thought, of course. The Carnegie 
Technical and departmental publications offer am
ple opportunity for practicing scientific expressions. 
But it is the observers opinion that a grasshoppers 
mode of living is much too comfortable for most 
engineers under Carnegies roof.
Why dont you engineers uproot the displaced 
scenario specialist and send him back to Hollywood 
where a higher and more justifiable premium will 
be placed upon his work? I chanllenge you to take 
pride in your profession.
Letters
Football Coverage
After Techs fabulous game with Geneva last 
Saturday, I expected a great splash across the 
pages of the Tuesday, October 19, 1954 issue of 
the Tartan. What did I find? NOTHING! ABSO
LUTELY NOTHING! On one-third of page five,, 
there were some statistics entitled, Gridders Tri
umph Over Geneva 15-7. I proceeded to read 
one of the most disgusting accounts of a sport 
event I have yet had the misfortune to read. I 
am not alone in*this, For as I sat in Skibo this 
afternoon, I watched student after student thumb 
through the Tartan to page five, start to read and 
promptly put down the paper or turn to the ar
ticle on intramural football. (Which should be 
smaller than Varsity sports!)
Now look, Heres the impression I got from 
that miserable article. 1.The mud on the field 
slowed up only our team to a lumbering crawl.
2.It was a public apology to Geneva for having 
spoiled their homecoming. 3.(most important) it 
was just another ordinary game. All this makes me 
ask one question. What are you doing? Embark
ing upon a campaign to kill school spirit? If the 
writer of this article was at that game he should 
be forever forbidden to witness Techs games and 
he should hang up his sports editors sign and go 
home. .
Here is what I saw and heard, and the things 
you neglected to mention. I came running across 
the field towards the stands of roaring Tech back
ers as the fabulous Kiltie band went thru its per
formances before the game. Spirit was mounting as 
the team came on the field. I could feel as I 
stood before the stands the tension, excitement 
and spirit that throbbed thru that cheering Tech 
crowd. I could have cried when I read your ar
ticle it made so light of one of the most thrilling 
games our expertly coached team has ever played 
tnd for which I had the privilege of leading the 
most spirited, cheering Tech crowd since I have 
been in college. In the second quarter the crowd 
fought from the stands with the team against Ge
neva when their man tackled our FABULOUS 
Miller and ground his face in the mud. Its im
portant to know who starts the fights, you know. As 
Geneva went ahead in the third quarter Techs 
stands roared with one fight cheer after another, 
as it rose to its feet for every play and cheered 
and fought and hammered against that Geneva 
line with our heroic team every inch across that 
field. For the first time in my experience on the 
squad, the cheerleaders had to quiet the crowd so 
that the team could hear the plays being called. 
When finally we scored that touchdown and made 
those extra points and the game was over the team 
carried Coach Baker on their shoulders across the 
field as every Tech rooter rose to his feet and roar
ed in appreciation of a job well done, thanks to 
the spirit *of the team and the excellent coaching. 
No mention was made of any of these things which 
are only a few of the high-lights of my gripes.
To say Im upset, annoyed, and disgusted is to 
say but little. Get on the stick, Editors, and prac
tice what you preach about school spirit!! You 
sounded like Geneva alums.
Till I see a dynamic change in your attitude 
and writing, I shjill remain,
An outraged cheerleader, 
Joanne Cerwin.
P.S. Those two beautiful rainbows that appeared 
at the half were exactly parallel with the field on 
Techs side. Furthermore the pot of gold was 
under Techs goal post!..
Editors Note: We do not feel that the TARTAN 
should read like the latest Mickey Spillane novel. 
The football team has received more coverage than 
it has ever had before. In fact it has probably 
been too much. In the issue in question the story 
of the game had a five column headline, picture, 
and three-fourths of page five. The rest of page 
five and part of page six was devoted to personali
ties on the team itself.
We are sorry you are upset, annoyed, and dis
gusted with the coverage. We are not trying to 
kill school spirit, but many of the points brought 
up do not belong in the news story on the game. 
Where they do belong is in a separate column re
lating to interesting happenings around school.
Campus Chest
Editor, the Tartan:
I feel that we should all share the same en
thusiasm in supporting the Campus Chest as has 
been displayed by those eager individuals who 
have helped in organizing it. Their efforts extend 
literally over the entire campus. Congratulations 
for a job well done. Now its our turn.
William Ruano 
IM 56.
Editors Note: We would like to request that 
in the future, those submitting letters to the editor 
would make an effort to use grammatically correct 
English and correctly spelled words.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 26, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
Tartans Trounce Edinbcro, 26-6
Tartans Win Easily Over Hapl ess Teachers; 
^Jesse Quatse, Roy DeVries Lead Ground Attack
By Jim Lacey
Edinboro State Teachers College showed up for their game with the Tartans 45 min utes late, as their bus broke down. This delay didnt affect the Pland as they went right to 
I work and whipped the Red Raiders 26-6 at F orbes Field, making the victory Techs fifth 
I and the loss, Edinboros fifth; they have yet to win.
Although held to a 7-0 lead at^
I halftime, the Tartans marched 
I down the field at will and scored in 
% every quarter but the second,
(,when they had a TD called back 
| Vecause of a backfield in motion 
| penalty.
Capitalize on Fumble 
After intercepting a Tech pass,
Edinboro fumbled and Tech re
covered on the 31 yard line, where 
I Bill Kennedy broke loose for a 21 
yard run to the ten. Jess 
took over and punched through 
the line in two tries for 
Roy DeVries added the conver^ jsion to the score, and another one 
in the fourth period, but both he 
and John Tucci 
At the start of 
Tech had its second 
called back, it was one of 
est plays of the year. On 
kick-off Edinboro let the ball roll 
around in the end zone rather
CARNEGIE TECH
EndsFicery, McGuigan, Casset, Luchok, 
Hrosik, Bersick.
JackiesWengrzyn, Butler, Luckey, McJI Carthy, Thomas.GuardsKarcher, Taglivini, Weaver, Wil
liamson, Jones, Copal.CentersKohan, Stauffer, Novak.
BacksJeske, Tucci, Carricato, Miller, 
Briner, Meyer, Kennedy, Roy Devries, 
Cortes, Quatse, Blatt, Peoples.
EDINBORO TEACHERS
EndsLuland, Cole, Shesman, Waltral. 
TacklesSharwood, Mallory.
GuardsFortino, Baker, Estes.
CentersYezzi, Stelato.
BacksYount, Delehaty, Russel, 
Schmeider, Tappe, Hack, Rumsey.
Tehc...........................7 0 12 728
Edinboro ........ 0 0 0 6| 6
TouchdoWnS: Carnegie Tech  Quatse,
Miller, Kennedy, Devries. Edinboro 
Russell. Points after touchdowns: Car
negie TechDevries 2. Officials: Referee 
Paul Bertha. UmpireWilliam Hill. 
Head LinesmanJohn Walker. Field
JudgeJohn Simon.
I than pick it up for a touch-back, 
I until Phil JY ;ke fell on it for an 
I apparent score. But Tech was off( side to nullify it.
Two Quick Scores 
Midway in the third period 
Tech scored when DeVries set up 
^Hhe marker with an interception 
on the EdinboKO 35 yard line. Mil
ler and Quatse alternated run| ning the ball with" Miller finally 
driving over from a yard out. Lat
er in the same stanza, after taking 
an Edinboro punt in Raider terri
tory, the Highland boys grounded 
I out another score. This time Ken
nedy skirted the end for 17 yards 
i and the score.
^ The Scots added the final mark' er when they took over possession
photo by ToiaCarnegie Techs Eddie Miller going around right end for 15 
yards in the second quarter.
of the ball on the Raider* 40, when 
Edinboro failed to make the first 
down. Quatse wended his way 
for 18 yards to the 22, where De
Vries took over, finally scoring 
from the one yard line.
In the final minute of play, Ed
inboro averted a shut out by 
virtue of a Delahanty toss to 
James, which was good for 28 
yards. Though the Red Raider 
team was comprised mainly of 
freshmen, they did show a lot of 
fighting spirit, but it was evident 
to the handful of people viewing 
the game that they did not belotng 
on the same field as Tech.
Tech Schedule
6 ............ Westminster .
23................ Lafayette ..
2 5.......... Johns Hopkins
15.................. Geneva ...
2 6..............Edinboro ...
Oct. 30At St. Vincent. 
Nov. 6Wash-Jeff here. 
Nov. 13Lehigh here.
Dance Tickets
Homecoming dance tickets 
will be on sale beginning Oc
tober 27 from 11:30 to 1:30 in 
Skibo. The price will be $2.75 
per couple including tax.
F*p*l-CoU Metropolitan Bottling C., PltUbnrjh 10, Fa.
Harriers Post Wins 
Over WVU, Case
Tech Runners Win 
Over Southern Conference 
Champs; Gillies First
After losing their first two intercollegiate meets of the 
season Carnegie Techs cross-country team got back on the 
winning side of the ledger by defeating West Virginias South
ern Conference defending champs, 25-30, who heretofore had 
been undefeated. Mai Gillies again ^
set the pace by touring the 4.3 mile 
Schenley Park course in 23 min
utes, 34 seconds, and was followed 
by his teammate Bill Bryant, in 
24 minutes, 18 seconds.
Saturday, at Forbes Field, the 
fans got their first look at the Har
riers, when Tech met Case. .The 
runners left the park before the 
game got underway and returned 
early in the first period. Tech took 
the first four places in the meet 
as Mai Gillies, Hap MacDonald 
and Bill Bryant finished in a dead 
heat for first place. Jim Flynn 
followed close on their heels to 
finish fourth. After the first Case 
runner entered the stadium, Whit
ney and Brodine came in together, 
followed by three very weary Case
men. The final score was Tech 
16, Case 53.
This week Tech will host West
minster on the Tartans home 
course. The meet will take place 
Friday at 4:30 p. m. at Schenly 
Park. This meet will end the Har
riers season and prep them for 
the Tri-State meet which is to 
take place the following week at 
Slippery Rock, with the Teachers 
playing host. The Rockets, it might 
be added, own a dubious victory 
over the Tartans, which the Plaid 
team will be out to avenge.
The probable starters for the 
Westminster meet are:
Mai Gillies 
Hap MacDonald 
Bill Bryant 
Jim Flynn 
Ray Whitney 
Dave Brodine 
Mike Driscoll
For Your ARROW Shirts and Tios
FRANK MEN'S WEAR
5816 FORBES STREET HA 1-9600 SQUIRREL HILL 
" Open Tuesday and Thursday evenings
May we collar you soon... 
in a smart ARROW Radnor?
AH HOW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  CASUAL WEAR
Employment Opportunities
ill
VENEZUELA
with
CREOLE PETROLEUM CORPORATION
An Affiliate of Standard Oil Co. (N.J.) 
Representatives of Creole will be on the campus on
Tuesday, Nov. 2
to interview unmarried graduates with majors 
in ENGINEERING, PHYSICS and GEOLOGY
See your Placement Director for interview schedules
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
With 90% of a shirts style up in the 
collar, the man who wears an Arrow 
Radnor is smarter than a wet whip.
Choose a Radnor Button-Down (above), 
a regular Radnor, or Radnor Ewith 
eyelets, shown at right. The Radnor 
E is also available with French Cuffs. 
Theyre all Arrow ... all easy on the 
eyes and on the budget. Arrow Radnors 
... smart-looking and perfect-fitting ... 
In broadcloth prices start at $4.50; in 
oxford cloth, $5.00 white or colored.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 26, 1954
Final Week of IMPlay
Two Unbeaten Teams Fall; Delts Down TX17-10, 
Lead Kiltie League, SN Beaten By Betas 8-7
As the IM football season starts the final stretch drive, the top teams are desperately 
counting their remaining games and the near top teams are striving for the league laurels.
The Kiltie league got the spotlight this week as the Delts, led by the passing of Ken 
Laughery, battled their way to undisputed possession of first place, by downing the TXs
17-10 in a hard fought contest that^________________________________________________________________________
was protested by the TXs, and | - "  <. . . .
Backfield
then pouring it on a unlucky PiKA 
team 48-11. Th only other action 
in the Kiltie league saw the TXs 
roll over the Eagles 29-2.
Betas Surprise SN
In the Skibo- league the DUs 
stood alone as the only unbeaten 
team, as the Betas surprised the 
SN's 8-7, in a game that was pro
tested. Robbins and company con
tinued to roll with two wins this 
week over the Newman Club and 
the Obelisks, by scores of 24-7 and 
23-6. Earlier in the week the 
Betas took the measure of the Beta 
Sigs 21-12, who have yet to win a 
game. They also lost later in the 
week to the Newman Club, 16-0.
The Tartan league again pro
duced some well played and inter
esting games. The ATOs continued 
to press the leaders by taking two 
games, one from the Gems by the 
score of 24-6 and one from the 
Static Charges 16-4. The SAEs 
kept their unblemished record by 
benefit of a strong second half. 
The end of the first half found the 
score knotted at 1 all, but the 
SAEs came back and won; final 
score SAE 25, ASCE 2. The PK 
won their first game by beating the 
ASCE 35-5 and then lost a tough 
one in the last minute of play to 
the Tech Gems 18-17, who make a 
habit of winning in the final min
utes.
Crucial Games
As the last week gets underway, 
there appear to be quite a few 
crucial games remaining to be 
played. In the Tartan league the 
SAEs still have to play the ATOs 
and the Tech Gems before they 
complete their schedule. This 
league could well end in a three 
way tie for first place, with a pos
sible mad scramble for second 
place, by the KS, ATO and Tech 
Gems. In the Skibo league the 
DUs have first place all wrapped 
up with three teams fighting it out 
for second. The SN team still has 
to play the DUs while the Betas 
and Obelisks have games with the 
bottom of the league. The league 
play, or regular schedule of games 
is supposed to end Thursday, but 
another day or two might be taken 
up with league playoffs.
League Standings:
Tartan League
W.L.
SAE40
KS31
ATO41
Tech Gems32
Phi Kap14
Static Charges 03
ASCEV 04
Kiltie League
w.L.
DTD50
TX41
Eagles32
PiKA22
AIEE13
TDP13
CIT05
Skibo LeagueW.L.
DU50
SN31
BTP32
Obelisks22
Newman Club 23
ATO B13
BSR05
Playoff Schedule
The playoff schedule for intra
mural football has been announced 
with the winners of the Skibo and 
Tartan leagues drawing byes. The 
winner of the Kiltie league will 
play the second place team of the 
Tartan league a id the two other 
second olace teams will also meet. 
In the second round of play the 
first pi; ie team of the Skibo league 
will play the winner of the Kiltie 
and Tar ian encounter, and the first 
place team in the Tartan league 
will meet the v inner of the Kiltie 
and Skibo encounter.
photo by Toia
Roy DeVries running back an intercepted pass with the aid of 
a block by Eddie Miller during the third quarter.
     by Dave Stea
Our coverage of the Tartan backfield has been expanded in this 
issue to include three other outstanding members of the team: Jesse 
Quatse, Tom Briner, and Marshall Brown. Of the trio, the first 
two are sophomores and the last a junior; they occupy positions, 
respectively, of fullback, halfback,?- 
and fullback.
Physicist Quatse, a member of 
Techs swimming team and the CClub, and a swimmer for the 
YMHA, is following in the foot
steps of his dad, Jesse Sr., Techs 
line coach and an All-American 
from Pitt. Briner, an architect, is 
affiliated with the AIA and is 
the recipient of a $100 C-Club 
scholarship; while Brown, the 
only fraternity man of the three, 
is a civil engineer, a member of 
ASCE and the C-Club, and a par
ticipant in intramural basketball.
The trio has a record of ex
tensive participation in a variety 
of sports before coming to Tech.
Quatse and Briner started in 
sandlot. ball, while Brown began 
in junior high school play. All 
three were in high school varsity 
football; Brown also played bas
ketball, while Briner, president of 
his senior class, was a member of 
both the baseball and basketball 
varsity squads. Quatse, who likes 
to dance, plays the piano, and iceskate (he recently turned down an 
offer for the Ice Capades), was 
features editor of his high school 
newspaper.
Although optimistic about the 
teams potentialities this year, the 
three gridders differ somewhat on 
details. Quatae predicts an undefeated season for the Tartanshis 
high school team went undefeated 
during his sophomore year to take 
th city '"championship, and since I 
he is now a sophomore at CIT, he 
considers this an omen of a sort. 
Furthermore, he states: Lehighs i 
margin of victory over Tech has 
been decreasing for the last few 
yearsI think well take them 
this season.* 1
Briner also feels that the team  
is capable of winning the rest of  
its games, but he believes that 
the victory will come through 
hard work and unrelenting effort, 
and only so long as the members 
of the squad do not get swelled 
heads over the Lafayette upset. 
Brown, the most conservative of 
the three in his opinion, feels that 
the team is still overconfident 
right now, but has a good chance 
to remain undefeated until it faces 
Lehigh. f
In recalling outstanding mo
ments in football, Quatse men
tions his first TD, which he scored 
three games ago, while Briner re
members his touchdown at Case 
last year  outstanding in his 
memory because Cleveland is his 
'home town.
University of Southern California
*
ENGINEERS
or
PHYSICS
GRADUATES
University of California at Los Angeles
To those interested in 
advanced academic study 
while associated with important 
research and development 
in industry, Hughes offers 
this practical program :
Hughes Cooperative Fellowship Program for Master of Science Degrees
A program to assist outstanding individuals in study
ing for the Master of Science Degree while employed 
in industry and making contributions to important 
military work. Open to students who will receive the 
B. S. degree in Electrical Engineering, Physics or 
Mechanical Engineering during the coming year, and 
to members of the Armed Services honorably dis
charged and holding such B. S. degrees.
Candidates must meet entrance requirements for 
advanced study at University of California at Los An
geles or the University of Southern California. Partic
ipants will work full time during the summer in the 
Hughes Laboratories and 25 hours per week while 
pursuing a half-time schedule of graduate study at the 
university.
Salary is commensurate with the individuals ability 
and experience. Tuition, admission fees and books for 
university' attendance are provided. Provision is made 
to assist in paying travel and moving expenses from 
outside Southern California.
HOW
TO
APPLY
for the Hughes Cooperative Fellowship 
Program: Address all correspondeiue to the 
Committee for Graduate Study. Brochure with 
complete details will be sent to you promptly.
HUGHES
Research
and Development 
Laboratories
Culver City,
Los Angeles County, 
California

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 26, 1954CARNEGIE TARTANPage T
CARNE
\
 II
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor .....................................................................................Kathy Galligan
Managing Editor ........................................................................Victor Sabol
Circulation Manager .................................................................James Soltis
Reporters ......................................................Dolores Neff, Edna Thorwart
Evening SC Sponsors 
Square Dance Social
The first social event of the* 
year, a square dance sponsored by 
the Evening Student Council, will 
be held on Saturday evening, Oc
tober 30, 1954 in Thistle Hall. Don 
Geyer and his four-piece country 
band will supply music and in
structions for those just getting 
acquainted with the fun of square 
dancing. Round dancing will be 
featured in the Black Cat to sat
is fy those who like variety in 
their evening. Door prizes will be 
given and refreshments will be 
served. Price of admission is $.75, 
and tickets may be purchased 
from any Student Council mem
ber or at Mr. McKelways office.
^ Social Chairman Jean Woods 
promises all who attend a really 
good time at this affair. You may 
come stag or with a date, but be 
sure to come. Blue jeans, plaid 
shirts, and other comfortable 
clcthes, constitute the appropri
ate dress for this occasion, and 
lots of energy, the desire for a 
good time, and a friendly smile 
constitute the appropriate social 
preparation.
^ % Please do not feel worried 
about not knowing anyone 
there. Evening students are a 
very congenial lot and you are 
sure to make new friends. Re
member that everyone is invited, 
whether or not he is enrolled in 
evening school. We will be look
ing forward to seeing you there.
JiNight School 
Gives Awards 
For Service
On Saturday evening, October 
9, 1954, a group of people from 
evening school assembled at the 
Carnegie Union to partake of a 
fine chicken dinner and receive a 
V partial reward for the work and 
services they had performed dur
ing the past year for the benefit 
of Evening Student Council and 
its enterprises. Following is a 
list of the people so honored with 
an Insignia Award Key at the 
Annual Insignia Award Banquet:
First Award: Paul Brannen,
Frank Polma, Evelyn DAndrea, 
James Soltis, Jean Woods.
Second Award: Matthew Beri^tovich, Mary Alice Peterson, An
na Mae Legosh. Virginia Ross.
Third Award: Floyd Byers,
Victor Sabol, Kenneth Pore, Wil
liam Groll.
Fifth Award: Kathy Galligan, 
Charles Keller.
Sixth Award: George Schussler, Raymond Schwalm.
Seventh Award: George Bogovich.
Past Presidents Award: Ray
mond Schwalm.
Council Advisors Award: 
Charles Keller.
It gives us great pleasure to 
publish the foregoing list, as these 
people have earned their 20 or 
more points necessary for an Insignias Key by doing service 
benefiting all students enrolled In 
evening school and their friends. 
If you would like to participate 
in this group, please contact any 
I member of Evening Student 
Council or write c/o your Plaid 
editor, Box 256, Carnegie Tech, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania.
Carnival
All evening students are 
hereby reminded that the 
Monte Carlo Carnival is 
scheduled for November 13, 
1954. Any white elephant 
contributions, that is, objects 
which may be of value to 
someone else but are just 
more clutter for you, will be 
greatly appreciated. Please 
leave them at Mr. McKel
ways office where someone 
on the social committee will 
pick them up. Thank you.
Regular Meeting 
And Stunts Held 
By Phi Gamma Pi
Phi Gamma Pi held its regu
lar meeting Sunday afternoon, 
October 10, at the Ca^iegie Un
ion. We were very happy to see 
so many new faces in addition to 
the old familiar ones. Some of 
these new faces include: Pat Ren_ 
kawek, Marilyn Darrah, Nancy 
Primozich, Pat Garrity, Joan 
Much, LaVerne Manion, Anita 
Smith, Edna Thowart, and Joan 
Thomas.
A brief history of Phi Gamma 
Pi was given by President Gini 
Ross in order to acquaint the new 
girls with the organization. Then, 
assisted by a very cooperative 
clock and two very efficient clock
watchers, Mrs. Schwarz and Mrs. 
Goodfellow, Gini Ross and Jean 
Woods acted as co-mistresses of 
ceremony for a delightful after
noon of Beat the Clock. Girls 
were catching hoops on their feet, 
blowing balloons across the floor, 
stacking cups and saucers on an
other girls forehead and many 
other stunts.
For one stunt, which seemed al
most an impossibility, Jean Woods 
generously offered her automobile 
as the prize. After a very tense 
45 seconds, we are happy to re
port that Jean still retains own
ership of her car. Everyone will 
agree that it was a most enjoyable 
afternoon.
Opportunity 
To Join SDP
#Plans for an interesting and 
entertaining fall social season 
were formulated at the Sigma 
Delta Phi monthly meeting in 
October. The planning is under 
the capable guidance of President 
Jim Soltis, Program Chairman 
Andy Spizak, and Secretary Bill 
Sommerfield.
Evening students interested in 
becoming members of this active 
body of fellow students should 
place a note addressed to Bill 
Sommerfield, Secretary, Sigma 
Delta Phi Fraternity, Box 256, in 
the intra-school mail slot by the 
Bookstore. No postage is required.
The organization is currently 
interested in offering the oppor
tunity for fellowship, sociability, 
and education to evening students 
who want to enrich their college 
life. Interesting talks, such as the 
one given at the last meeting by 
George Bogovich on bee keeping, 
are a source of much informaion. 
Bee keeping is Georges hobby, 
and he ably demonstrated his talk 
with an actual bee hive. Free 
samples of his labors in the form 
of different kinds of honey were 
enjoyed by the members.
A social on Saturday, November 
27 and the big gala Christmas 
party scheduled for the Horizon 
Room of the Greater Pittsburgh 
Airport are activities which no 
prospective member would want 
to miss.
I did my part 
to swell
CAMPUS
CHEST
Evening Students 
Invited By AIEE
Any night school student en
rolled in electrical engineering is 
invited to join the student chap
ter of the America! Institute of 
Electrical Engineers^iere on the 
Carnegie Tech campus. This or
ganization is the one that sets all 
standards for the electrical engi
neering profession.
Membership blanks can be ob
tained on the EE bulletin board in 
Machinery Hall. The cost is $2.50 
for the rest of the fiscal year 
which is until May 1.
44
What makes a Lucky taste better?
ITS TOASTEDto taste better!
College smokers from coast to coast prefer Luckies 
to any other brand. Luckies lead, and by a wide 
margin, according to the latest, biggest college 
survey. Once again, the No. 1 reason: Luckies taste 
better. They taste better because Lucky Strike is 
the cigarette of fine tobacco ... and Its Toasted 
to taste better. Its Toastedthe famous Lucky 
Strike processtones up Luckies light, mild, goodtasting tobacco to make it taste even better. This 
explains the Droodle below, which is: Eskimo 
seminar enjoying Luckies in badly built classroom. 
Like all real cool people, Eskimos know Luckies 
taste better. So, get the better-tasting cigarette 
... Lucky Strike.
LUCKIES TASfE BETTER
Cleaner, Fresher, Smoother!
ALPHABET BLOCKS 
FOR ILLITERATES
BUTTERFLY SKIPPING ROPI
DEPRESSED FLEA 
COMMITTING SUICIDE
TIC-TAC-TOE KIT
GHOST WITH CINDER 
IN HIS EYE
eVT.C MIODOCT OR
N
Whats this? 
asks ROGER PRICE*
For solution see paragraph above.
GOT A LUCKY DROODLE?
If youve got a Lucky Droodle in your noodle, send 
it in. We pay $25 for all we use, and also for many 
we dont use. Send as many as you like with your 
descriptive titles to: Lucky Droodle, P. O. Box 67, 
New York 46, N. Y.
?DROODLES, Copyrifht. 1954, by Roger Price 
AMIIICAI LEADING MANUFACTURED OF CIOARCTTB

---------------------------------------------------

fase 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 26, 1954
iRS
GalPnns
RonnFrr
th's heF ItLTER heah Counhs 
and L&M has heF BFsh!
Council
[Continued from page 1] 
a Student Union, and sound out 
student opinion on what facilities 
would be most welcome in a new 
Union. Mr. Tom Porsching was 
appointed chairman of a commit
tee investigating these possibili
ties, and students are invited to 
contact him in regard to any of 
the three points outlined above.
Mr. Miley called Councils at
tention to the fact that the 1954 
Thistle ended its fiscal year in the 
red. He directed that the Student 
Council Publications Committee 
conduct an investigation of the 
cause of this deficit, with a view 
toward preventing the recurrence 
of the problem in future year
books.
Restrictive Resolution Passed
Motivated mainly by the loss 
sustained by the Varsity C Club 
and Council in connection with 
student non-attendance at the 
Varsity C Club Dance, Council 
passed the motion given in the 
first paragraph of this article 
which effectively eliminates frater
nity and sorority functions as com
petition with all-school events.
Although the motion was passed, 
there were a number of dissent
ing votes. The minority viewpoint 
was that Council does not have 
jurisdiction over local chapters 
of nationally affiliated professional, 
scholastic and social fraternal or
ganizations. (See Student Coun
cil Constitution, Article III, Sect. 
2b.) Since the meeting was con
ducted in the absence of a quorum, 
none of the business is official until 
the minutes of that meeting are 
approved next Wednesday. It is 
expected that there will be a con
certed movement to strike certain 
passages from the minutes of the 
preceding meeting.
Destructive Celebrations 
Discouraged
At Councils meeting of three 
weeks ago, the following resolu
tion, passed by last years Council, 
was re-entered in the minutes. 
As representatives of the student 
body of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Student Council expresses 
concern over the fact that on occa
sions in past years, certain mem
bers of our student body have vis
ited other institutions in connec
tion with athletic celebrations with 
consequent interruptions to the 
educational program and destruc
tion of property.
We therefore resolve that such 
activities be discontinued in the 
future. . ^
We further resolve that in in
stances of visitation of other cam
puses, the financial responsibility 
of any damage done, insofar as 
Student Council can establish, be 
borne by individuals who are re
sponsible for such damage.
Council members were asked to 
prevent such celebrations after 
football games, etc., in the inter
ests of intraschool friendly rela
tions.
TARTAN FOOTBALL ENTRY BLANK
Team
WEST VIRGINIA 
I ST. VINCENTS 
PRINCETON 
SYRACUSE 
COLUMBIA 
PURDUE 
MICHIGAN 
IOWA
I MINNESOTA 
! NORTHWESTERN 
IDUKE 
I TENNESSEE 
; TEXAS CHRISTIAN 
I COLORADO 
TEXAS
Games of October 30, 1954 
Score Team
-------- PITT '
-------- CARNEGIE TECH
-------- COLGATE
 HOLY CROSS
-------- CORNELL
-------- ILLINOIS
-------- INDIANA
-------- WISCONSIN
-------- MICHIGAN STATE
-------- OHIO STATE
-------- GEORGIA TECH
-------- NORTH CAROLINA
-------- BAYLOR
-------- OKLAHOMA
-------- SO. METHODIST
Score
NAME ......................................DEPT.CLASS
Chests
the
authentic 
University 
model 
tuxedo ... 
now in 
brand
lightweight
year-round
worsted
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
[Continued from page 1] 
himself the question, What is 
my responsibility in this cam
paign?and will answer accord
ingly with his pledge and con
tribution.
natural 
shoulders 
narrow 
shawl lapel, 
flap pockets, 
center vent, 
non-pleated 
trouser*
lor Iune of 
nearcot retailer 
and free formal
chart, write
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.
2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final 
score of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct 
decisions; in case of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by 
midnight Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry 
is submitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will 
be announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges 
is final.
6. Winner of each weeks contest will receive a 1954 Thistle subscription, 
redeemable at the time of publication.
CartoonBy Connell
Roore ro
MOR WOOt>
GET MUCH MORE FLAVOR
MUCH LESS NICOTINE !
Why do L&M sales soar higher every 
day? Its the one filter cigarette that 
gives smokers a taste they can enjoy  
a filter they can depend on. Now L&M 
comes king-size, too, at the same low 
price as regular.
In either size only L&M Filters
give you the Miracle Tip  the effec
tive filtration you need. Get much 
more flavor  much less nicotine  a 
light, mild smoke. Yes,  its the filter 
that counts.. and L&M has the best!
BUY L&Ms King-size or regular. 
JUST WHAT THE DOCTOR ORDERED!
