FRESHMEN HOMECOMING QUEEN CANDIDATES
These nine freshmen girls will vie for the hon or to reign as Homecoming Queen over Carnegies 
50th Anniversary week-end on October 27 and 28. From left to right they are (front row), Marilyn 
Porter, Ann Smith, Nancy Haney, and Doris Plohr; (rear row), Barbara Kelley, Jean Markley, Ann 
Lyn Becker, Mary Ann Colonna, and Marjorie Ruttle.
VOL. 44No. 6PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1950
featured on the Monday night 
menu will be a half hour of Jazz 
Jamboree at CIT with George 
Ursini and Len Smollen spinning 
the best in jazz.
Audience Limited 
Broadcasting each night, Mon
day through Thursday, from 8:00 
to 11:00, WRCT can be heard only 
on the Carnegie campus. The sta
tion is a wired carrier current 
station and at present its listen
ing audience will be limited to 
Morewood Gardens and the Mens 
dorms. All programs are broad
cast from the basement of the Car
negie Union.
A complete schedule for the 
coming week follows:
Monday, Oct. 23
Tech Varieties Harry James Show Jazz Jamboree Stars on Parade Campus News Roundup The Classical Hour
Tuesday, Oct. 24
Latin Tempos The Marine Story Sammy Kaye Show Star of the Week Moments of Melody Disc Jockey Show Campus News Roundup The Classical HourWednesday, Oct. 25
ORC Show Inquiring: Reporter Tommy Dorsey Show Its the Tops Twenty Questions Disc Jockey Show Campus News Roundup The Classical Hour
8:009:009:159:4510:0010:15
8:008:308:459:09:159:3010:0010:15
8:008:158:308:459:009:3010:010:15
Inauguration
Tickets for the Presidents 
inauguration, Friday, Oct. 27, 
can be obtained on Oct. 26 in 
the public relations office. 
Of that 1800 seat capacity of 
the gym, 700 seats are avail
able to students.
Program Schedule 
Offered By WRCT
Disc Jockey Shoivs Predominate;
On Air Monday Thru Friday
Radio Carnegie Tech, WRCT will start in a big way next Monday 
with a full hour Tech Varieties show. Tuesday, at 670 on the radio
dial, when the clock strikes 8:00, Gene Sapper will spin out a half 
hour of Latin Tempos an all Latin American Music show.
At 8:30 the Marine Story will ? 
be presented, followed by the 
Sammy Kaye show at 8:45.
At 9:15 another feature, Moments 
of Melody, will be presented by 
Ken Campbell, after which he will 
continue as disk jockey on the 
Disk Jockey Show for a half 
hour.
Peaceful Close
The nightly feature, Campus 
News Roundup at 10:00, will 
broadcat hot off the wire data 
and sports results for five min
utes. Each evening after the 
Campus News, the Works of 
Masters, The Classical Hour will 
bring to a peaceful close the eve
nings broadcast. ^
On Wednesday after the 8:00 
starter, the ORC show, the Inquir
ing Reporter will interview Tech 
students with campus questions.
Twenty Questions, the program 
where everyone but the experts 
know the animal-vegetable-mineral subject, follows at ~'ne with 
Jack Herrington passing out the 
subjects. From 9:30 to 10:00, Jay 
Clasten will ride the records on 
the Disc Jockey Show.
Spinning Disc
Broadway Showtime will open 
the Thursday evening schedule 
with Ivan Sturman spinning the 
platters from popular broadway 
shows. At 8:45, Dave Greenberg 
and A1 Moore will give out with 
the weekly sports roundup.
So Proudly We Hail, a half hour 
dramatic production will hold 
down the 9:00 spot. At 9:30 John 
Higginbotham will be on deck to 
jockey the discs until the news 
roundup at 10:00.
On Monday, Oct. 23, Phil Flad 
and John Bishop will again pre
sent Tech Varieties, the all-round 
one hour show that features camtalent and celebrities. Also
Homecom ingPla ns 
Near Final Stages
OpenHouses9 Class Competition
Two Highlights Of Fall Weekend
Three principal attractions at this years Homecoming celebration 
will be the Freshman-Sophomore competition, the dedication of Morewood Gardens, and departmental open houses.
In keeping with traditional rivalry, the freshman and sophomore 
------------------------------------------------?classes will again compete to de
cide whether freshman must con-ueen Election I tinue wearing their dinks.
Class CompetitionQ
Next Tuesday
Fraternities Entertain 
Candidates At Dinner
Queen of the campus for Home
coming week-end will be chosen 
next Tuesday, Oct. 24, at an all
school election held from 11:30 to 1:30 p.m. in Skibo, MMCC, Fine more Julie Cosentino, and this 
Arts, and Administration Hall. years freshman queen with her 
Nominees for queen from the *wo attendants. Bob Kubiak will 
home economics department are be Master of Ceremonies during 
Doris Plohr, Ann Smith, Ann Lyn the rivalry.
Becker; general studies, Marjorie Morewood Gardens will be ofRuttle; secretarial studies. Marilyn ficially dedicated at 6:00 p.m. Oct. 
Porter; general science, Nancy 27 in the first floor lounge of the 
Haney; music department, Mary womens dormitory. According to
Highlighting this years compei tition, organized by Dolly Mitchell 
; and Bill Dorn, will be the Scotish 
; Fasterns Een, a game similar 
! to our slaughter ball. The affair 
: is scheduled between 10:30 and 
I 12:00 Saturday, Oct. 28, on the 
' cut.
To cheer her respectvie team 
! will be last years queen, sophoAnn Colona; P&D, architecture, 
and drama, Jean Markley.
The fraternities entertaining all 
candidates for dinner are: Pi Kap[Continued on page 3]
Mary Jo Carraher, president of 
Womens Dorm Council, the par
ticipants of the dedication cere
monies will be announced in next 
weeks Tartan.
Carnegie Day 
Plans Complete
Morewood Open
Open house will be sponsored 
not only at Morewood Gardens 
but also in various departments 
during the week-end. Students, 
faculty, and alumni are invited to 
visit the first floor of Morewood
Honoraries Make Calls, ^ ct-l8- ^e  general openhouse throughout the dorm is Kiltie Band To Appear scheduled on Sunday from 2:00-
4:30.Carnegie Day exercises will 
serve a double purpose this year, 
to officially open Homecoming, 
and to provide all Carnegie stu
dents with an opportunity to par
ticipate in one of the major Home
coming activities. Students are
Departmental open house tours 
will be guided by each depart
mental student society. Freshmen 
and sophomores in E&S and the 
Division of Humanistic and Social 
Studies are especially invited to
not to be excluded from this part the tours of the following departof the celebration. The program ment: chemical engineering,
is being arranged especially for chemistry, civil engineering, electhe enjoyment of the students, trical engineering, industrial manwho are all invited to attend. I agement, mathematics, mechamBill Dorn will be master of cal engineering, metallurgical encereinonies for the exercises which Steering, physics, and pi intin 
will start at 3:00 Friday afternoon management, 
ii- the gym. Entertainment for Tours Short
the informal program will be Due to the crowded Homecomhighlighted by the appearance of j ing program, the Open Houses 
the Kiltie Band and the men s have ben limited ot Friday after, V , - noon from 12-5 and Saturday
Jenny Lou Law
In Nixon Production 
* * *
Lend An Ear 
Casts Alumni
Techs drama department is 
well represented in Lend an 
Ear, a musical review by Charles 
Gaynon, opening at the New Nixon 
theater on Monday evening, Oct. 
23.
Jenny Lou Law, former teach
er, has the key comedien role. 
Two of her former students, Wil
liam Eythe, one of the shows 
co-producers, and A1 Checco, a 
veteran of the troupe, persuaded 
their teacher to leave her teach
ing post for the stage. The musi
cal was originally produced at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse in 1941.
During the war years when the 
author, Charles Gaynon, and act
ors donned the uniform of Uncle 
Sam, the show was put in moth
balls. In 1948 the mothproofing 
was removed, the show livened, 
Wiliam Eythe recalled from a 
movie post, A1 Checco snatched 
from a Broadway show, and Jen
ny Lou Law persuaded to return 
to the show.
It was an instant hit in Los An
geles Las Palmas theater. From 
there Broadway called and recog
nized the show as a good one, put
ting the stamp on it as one of the 
most successful revues of many a 
season.
and womens glee clubs.
A special ceremony has been 
planned for the Coronation, of the
morning from 9-12. In line with 
this restriction, the tours will be
Queen by Dr. Warner, after which : short so that underclassmen will 
the new Queen will officially open be able to visit many departments, 
the Homecoming festivities. Dean; The over-all planning has been 
Dickinson will speak and as an ; organized by Tau Beta Pi, workadded attraction, Alfred M. Cox, 1 ing in close cooperation with .the
Continued on page 5] administration.
Choral Group Heads 
CampusChestProgram
Carnegies Campus Chest will start rolling soon with local name 
entertainers to open the campaign. The Westinghouse Quartet, con
sidered as one of the best choral groups in the state, will headline
I the program on Oct. 31 at 11:30. ?-------------------------------------------------:j Personal contact with the m- For the past few weeks the; students will be empha| Campus Chest Committee has sized in the campaign. APO un! been soliciting student opinion jyiuttart will contact fre^hthrough the vaiious campus or- j men ancj sophomores in E&S. AL 
I ganizations to deteimine how Goodwin is in charge of Fine Arts 
much money will be conti ibuted j solocitors, and Jeanne Button and 
to the various charities. The alio- , her groups wju canvass Margaret 
cations are not in as yet, but it is . Morrison. Plans for contacting upexpected that the Community j perciass Engineers and 
Chest, which in itself supports 92 j ijvjng groups have not be 
organizations, will receive the Dletelv formulated as ye 
largest portion of the quoti.. $1 50 Per student
Aid Europe As the Campus Chest c
Other organizations receiving seven separate charity dr 
aid will be the Red Cross, infantile j to one campaign, the stud< 
paralysis fund. Salvation Army, 
cancer fund, heart fund, and 
World Student Service fund. The 
j World Student Service fund sends 
books ^nd educational equipment 
j to students in Europe. Contribu- t money will help in in<
| tions by college students are their j community welfare thi 
only source of income.
us
nbe asked to contribu 
instead of seven tim< 
per student asked 
Chest Committtee wi 
les than a coke a v
.50
and
the
world. Lets go over the top!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2TAWANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1950
Editorials
Ho, Hum
Rumblings at recent student council meetings may well 
serve as warning that council has awakened and once again 
will be carrying on in true style over important student de
cisions, about which students need not get. excited over since 
action by the council rarely ever changes the pattern of life 
on Carnegie Techs campus.
However, the representatives of the student body will, i 
in the near future wrangle over the possibility of making 
student identification cards transferable; they will probably | 
form a committee to investigate Wes Kennys proposed fiveyear plan for the improvement of Skibo; they will also 
probably form a committee to investigate the condition of 
the mens dormitories as pointed out in a letter in the Tartan 
three weeks ago; and they will perform sundry other activi
ties, the only effective ones being the allotment of budgets 
to various campus organizations.
The committee investigating Kenneys Skibo plan and the mens 
dormitories will probably get no further then to gather information 
which will probably be published by the Tartan in a report next 
week anyway.
We are anxiously awaiting the day when student coun
cil will undertake and complete a long-range project which 
will have some meaning to the students. Most important 
and recent business has been the handling of class organiza
tions and pep rallies. We sincerely hope that council is plan
ning to continue its fight for improved school spirit in the 
form of future celebrations in the event the football team 
continues its present success. Nothing could help school 
spirit and the morale of the football team more than to have 
a Monday celebration in the event Carnegie goes undefeated 
through Homecoming. A worthwhile project for council!
A Little Patience
Several issues ago, the Tartan published a letter written by the 
Gleep, against the conditions of the mens dormitories as opposed to 
the very modernistic and beautiful Morewood Gardens.
In its next issue, the Tartan hopes to answer the ques
tion of What is in the future for mens dormitories at Car
negie Tech? However, now is as good a time as any to 
clear up the question on why more than one and a half mil
lion dollars was sunk in providing Carnegie women with one 
of the most outstanding dormitories in the country.
In the first place, Carnegie received that once in a life
time opportunity to purchase Morewood Gardens at a price 
which would have been foolish to pass by. It would have 
been impossible to build and furnish dormitories for women 
at the price which the Gardens finally came to. Such is also 
the story on the situation of housing men on campus. At 
present the tremendous cost of building prohibits the con
struction of dormitories on a long-range loan program.
However, better housing conditions for men definitely have a 
place In Carnegies future building plans. Next weeks Tartan will 
try to bring these as up to date as possible.
Keep Em Coming
It has always been and will continue to be the policy of 
the Tartan to encourage the student body to participate in 
this paper through the medium of letters to the editor. We 
will print as many letters as we have space for each week. 
All we ask is that each letter bear a signature, and be limited 
to 250 words.
ew i *
ALMOST OVERSLEPT
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.TELEPHONE: SChenley 1-4557; after hours, MUseum 1-5255; for advertising and subscriptions, MU 1-7434. MU 1-4076.Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania.
Editor-in-Chief ...........................................................................................Paul V. OffermannBusiness Manager ................................................ .........................................Morty H. BakerManaging Editor ..............................................................................................Lloyd W. DyerPersonnel Manager .........................................................................................Ray J. Mangold
News Editor- Nancy Sitler. Sports EditorFred Lunt. Make-up EditorA1 Bader. Copy Editor- Fred Sonnenberg. Features EditorDolores Mitchell. Assistant Business ManagerBud Smith. Advertising ManagerDavid Goldsmith. Circulation ManagerA1 Selz. Photography EditorDick Gilson. Proof EditorJohn Tancill Assistant Sports EditorArt Christopher.
Chief ReportersSMrlee Ploeger, Jane Robb. Personnel AssistantDick Woods] Reporters -Patricia Kelly, Phil Molenda, Hugh Young, Marilyn Sweeney, Rosemarj Serafini. Sports StaffJoan Cummerton. Justin Davidson, Bob Lynch, Skip Mitchell, A1 Mooie. Cal Smith. Larry Summerill. Art StaffHenry Carlsen, Carroll Gantz, Ken Fereucon. Jerry Weisman. Make-up StaffBea Pollock. Dick Ahlstrom. Proof StaffRobe rt Brown. Feature StaffCandy Kane, Ivan Sturman. Photography StaffDavid Goldsmith, Martin Snyderman, Jim Walker. Headline StaffVince Ribas, Calisto Cruder, Walt Hayes, Dick Smith, Sally Ward, Shirley Larson. Copy Staff Pat Miller. Cub ReporterAnn Parker. Julie Cosentino. Jane Dowling, Bill Smith. Bob McQuad, Dick Durstine, Nancy Rausch, Joan Webb. Advertising taffAnne Philhower. Sally Woodroof, Jerry Seiner, Marilyn Seiner, John Stroble. Circulation StaffBarry Innerfield, Don Weaver. SecretaryEleanor Doni- ger. TvpistsJoan Novak. Mildred Thompson, Posy Price, Anita Makrauer.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College Publisher-; Repre? cntative. 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.Entered a; second cla-s matter on Oct. 4. 1907, at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa undr r *, e Art of March 3. 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized October 21, 1918.
Letters To The Editor
Editor, The Tartan:
I disagree with what you say, 
and I will defend to the death 
your right to say it, but really, 
theres a limit. It is gratifying to 
see a man defending his beliefs, 
but when the defense is such that 
perfectly harmless state of af
fairs is warped, and misstated and 
emotionalized to the point of em
barrassment, this defense can do 
far more harm than good.
The astounding lack of logic in 
Mr. Manchesters remarks in the 
latest issue of The Tartan (Oct. 
10, 1950), concerning the malic
iously libeled dramats almost 
defies analysis. The dramat is no 
long-suffering drudge, considered 
lucky if he gets time for a crust 
of bread and four hours sleep a 
night. (Judging from my room
mates ceaseless labors, this seems 
more applicable to engineers.) 
Dramats are, and Dramats will be 
the first to agree with me, usually 
very happy and contented with 
Techs sensible schedules, and 
they even find time to (and I 
quote) see a game, or partake 
in a game. Hardly the Dostkovski 
that Mr. Manchester paints.
It isunfortunate that some dra
mats bewail a situation which does 
not exist. I do not think it nausiatingly disgusting that engineers 
often laugh at dramats. We often 
laugh at them too. For dramats 
and engineers work on different 
levels. Their beliefs, ideals, and 
behaviors are as different as night 
and day. It would be absurd, and 
insulting, to both dramats and en
gineers, to claim that there is no 
difference between them, just as it 
is absurd and insulting to say that 
dramats are more interesting, 
colorful, and intelligent than en
gineers. Of course I agree that 
the world would be pretty dull 
and sorry without actors, just as 
comm unication, transportation, 
lighting, etc., would be impossible 
without engineers. Just as to the 
showman there is no business 
like show business (to quote Mr. 
Manchesters inspired steel from 
Irving Berlin) so to the engineer 
there is no business like engi
neering. (Here I quote myself.) 
Sincerely,
Tucker Ashworth 
Freshman Dramat
Editor, Tartan
Joe Manchester, Freshman 
Dramat, has been, yuh might say, 
properly drawn and quartered by 
an embarrassed body of dramats. 
Joe made a social error. We may 
think were as exalted as he claim
ed, but we never admit it even to 
ourselves. Naturally, weve enjoy
ed your attention. Hope youll con
tinue the fun.
Jerry Stovin 
Drama Senior
To The Editor:
I would not wish -this letter to 
appear as an adverse comment 
upon Skibo but pecuniary con
siderations have heaped upon a 
gourmet of my sensitivities great 
problems.
I am only an average student 
with Bs in sold geometry and 
calculus, but I have a theory that 
the reflexes and brain are more 
active when a person is half fam
ished. I have therefore arrived at 
a menu which might be taken as 
a constructive suggestion by other 
struggling students.
My daily diet starts with half 
a piece of zweibach (preferably 
two days old) and a cold glass of 
water. Lunch consists of a soup 
of dandelion greens .(picked on 
campus) and a hand full of 
pretzels from the Greeks. Supper 
is an Epicureans delight. With a 
ravenous appetite I dive into a 
steaming plate of guinea pig 
hocks and frog legs (specially 
pickled, courtesy of Biology de
partment), a K ration chocolate 
bar (left over from the ASTP) and 
a steaming cup of tea (a slight 
task for strong fingered Hank of 
the football team who squeezes 
my tea bag weekly to exhpustion 
as my diet prohibits such activity). 
The estimate of this daily menu 
is 7c including Hanks services.
After a weeks trial I can re
port that my faculties are more 
acute and that my average (tem
perature) has risen.
I wish I could afford to eat in 
Skibo.
Dick Ahlstrom
By Dolly Mitchell
OPEN THE DRAWER, RICH. 
ARD . . . Althouth efficiency is 
one of the greatest secretarial vir
tues, sometimes things will go 
wrong, you know. For instance, 
one of the secretaries of the 
alumni office very thoroughly 
cleaned her desk, locking every
thing tightly inside, including the 
desk keys!
RELICS . . . Over in Web Hall 
is a strange looking object that 
must date back to the days of 
good old Andy C. It is a desk 
that stands as high as a man and 
that has about fifty tiny little 
drawers in it. It would be inter
esting to examine those pigeon 
holes. Who knows, we might 
find one of Andrews garters or 
something.
FINISHING SCHOOL . . . Mrs. 
Alexander, dean of MMCC, some
times receives letters that are ad
dressed misleadingly. One address 
in particular gave the Carnegie 
Post office people a big laugh. It 
read: Miss Murcheater, Head
Mistress, Carnegie School of 
Women.
ODK IS OK . . . ODK men do 
not believe in the adage, dont 
do today what you can put oft 
until tomorrow. Although Home
coming is not yet over, ODK com
mittee men are planing Spring 
Carnival.
WE DARE THEM ALL . . . 
Carnegie TV fans who were sit
ting by their sets last Tuesday 
night undoubtedly were surprised 
to see Fine Arts la wnin the back
ground of a Philip Morris ad
vertisement. Danny Franks, drama 
instructor, took the nose test for 
the benefit of the television aud
ience. What price, publicity?
THE BIG FOUR . . . The tradi
tions exam question which always 
puzzles students is the one that 
asks the student to list the four 
colleges at Carnegie. The fourth 
college is the Library School. It is 
actually a part of Carnegie Tech, 
although this school is located at 
Carnegie Library in Oakland.
CAPTAIN MAKES GOOD . . . 
Gerry Meyers, co-captain of last 
years football squad, has turned 
domestic. He rooms with four 
other boys in Chicago and does 
th? cooking. Imagine Meyers, who 
measures about six feet, in a 
apron.
THE DRIPS SN MMCC . . . The
dam burst in Margaret Morrison 
last week when a radiator pipe 
began to leak. Several rooms on 
the third floor were water-soaked.
RENT A TYPEWRITER
>4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR $10
TYPEWRITERS $2950
All Kinds as Low as
AmericanTypewriler Co. 
> wood st. CO. 1-1019Convenient Parking
fti* u s i*T orr
More BOUNCE To The Ounce
Supplies For 
Decorations For 
Homecoming Week
 PAINTS
 TOOLS
 INCIDENTALS
Save At Our 
10% Festival Discount
OAKLAND
HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St.
MA. 1-092.3

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1950TA4WANPage 3
Candidates SAM Meets
[Continued from page 2]
pa Alpha, Monday, Oct. 16; Al
pha Tau Omega, Tuesday, Oct. 17; 
Delta Upsilon, Wednesday, Oct. 
18; Beta Theta Pi, Thursday, Oct. 
19; Delta Tau Delta, Friday, Oct. 
20.
All candidates will be present
ed on Thursday, Oct. 19, at 12:30 
p.m. in Skibo.
Carnegie Day
[Continued from page 1] 
vice-president of the Alumni 
Federation will also address the 
students.
Another feature of the day will 
include the calls o the honoraries and the presentation of awards.
On Wednesday
Speaker, Refreshments 
Planned For Evening
The Carnegie chapter of the 
Society for the Advancement of 
Management will hold an evening 
social meeting on Wednesday, Opt. 
18, at 8:00 a.m. in the DU house. 
Principal speaker of the evening 
will be James R. Stele, general 
manager of the Duquesne works of 
the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Cor
poration, who wrill speak on the 
Duties of the General Manager. 
A 25 cent admission charge will 
cover the cost of refreshments. 
All sophomore, junior, and senior 
members of the IA or IM depart
ments are invited to attend.
Dorm Council 
Holds Dance 
For Members
Mens Dorm Council and Cit
com Clan will sponsor a dance 
for their members on Oct. 27 in 
the womens gym from 9 to 1. 
Music will be provided by Rich
ard Brooks Quartet. Tickets may 
be purchased for 75c.
The Inn lounge and grill will 
remain open until 1:00 for the con
venience of the guests.
Certificates
Students may pick up their 
Founders Scholar certificates 
in the Dean of Students office 
this week.
THEM AIL!
Philip Morris challenges
any other leading brand 
to suggest this test
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF 
SMOKERS, who tried this test, 
report in signed statements that 
PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY 
LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1. . . Light up a PHILIP MORRIS
Just take a puffDON'T INHALEand 
s-|-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through 
your nose. Easy, isn't it? And NOW...
2. .. Light up your present brand
Do exactly the same thingDONT 
INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? 
Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claimsbut Philip Morris invites you 
to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself.
Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . 
Philip Morris is, indeed, Americas FINEST Cigarette!
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
INQUIRING REPORTER
Men Say Dormitories 
Should Be Improved
People have been discussing government spending policies for 
years, and now Carnegie students are questioning the colleges spend
ing project. The Gleep wrote a vigorous letter to the editor, 
(October 3 edition), asking why the administration is spending so 
much money on Morewood Gar-4 
dens when the mens dorms are in
PHIUP MORRIS
such bad condition.
The Inquiring Reporter asked 
dorm men this week, Do you 
think the dorm facilities are ade
quate?
Paul Sherba, sophomore: I live 
in FPHA. It is 
senseless for 
the school to 
spend any 
money on FP 
HA because it 
is going to be 
torn down. But 
if they were to 
leave the bar
racks up, there 
is certainly 
room for improvement. The build
ings need better recreation rooms, 
more heat, and cleaner wash \ 
rooms. As I said before, they will j 
be tearing them down so there is 
no sense in doing anything now.
Robert Takahashi, junior: That 
letter to the 
editor covered 
everything! 
pretty well. Ive 
lived in FPHA 
for three years, 
and its gettting 
worse all the 
time. One of 
the big inade- , 
quacies is the 
poor room fix
tures. For the amount of money 
it costs to live there, the barracks 
are petty fair. Freshmen gripe the 
most; theyre not used to it. We 
dont care much anymore.
Stephen Peake, freshman: That 
is a difficult 
question to an
swer. What is 
considered 
ad equate?
There are dif
ferent ranges of 
value. I think, 
for exa m p 1 e, 
that the Engin e e r i n g improvements are 
more important than anything in 
the dorms. Comforts in the dorm 
are secondary to education. I dont 
know the policy of the school, but
j they had a reason for doing what
: they did no doubt. The only rea son I can think there is for spendI ing so much money on Morew'ood 
would be that they want to in
crease women enrollment.
Jose Coelho, sophomore: I agree 
 .  - v/ith the letter
Chctpel Choir
ChapeV Choir has now be
gun its activities for this 
year. The Choir will meet 
every Tuesday morning at 
11:30 a.m. and will sing at the 
Chapel Service on alternate 
Tuesdays, Please note that 
this is the only mixed sing
ing group on campusso. 
come one, come all, who have 
any interest in singing at all.
Roland Dollhof.
Choir Director
senior: The
Second Play 
Begins Nov. 3
I Remember Mama 
Makes Drama Schedule
Beginning Nov. 3 the drama de
partment will present its second 
production of the year, I Remem
ber Mama by John Van Drutin.  
The play, directed by Miss Mary I 
Morris, is about a Norwegian im- ! 
migrant family living in America. |
It is an account of how the old
est daughter becomes accepted as 
an author by writing her family's j 
experiences. She narrates the play 
and the relative scenes are acted j 
on the stage.
I Remember Mamma is bas- j 
ed on stories from Catherine For- I 
bes book Mammas Bank Ac- ; 
count.
to the editor, 
'he showers 
and wash rooms 
need improve
ment. Heating 
is very poor, 
espe c i a 11 y if 
> ou live down
stairs. Also, 
there is too 
much air going 
into the radiators. The school 
should tear FPHA down and build 
new dorms. Thats the best solu- iton.
Charlie Roberts, 
dorms are all r;v 
right, but the : i ! 
barracks arent 
so hot. I am 
satisfied. Mc
Gill, Boss, and 
Henders o n 
Halls are al! 
right, although 
Boss could 
stand improve
ment. The bar
racks are rat traps for my money.
Institute Brings 
Bromfield For 
Lecture Series
Musicians, Illustrators 
Scheduled On Program
Novelist Louis Bromfield, one of 
Americas best known literary figI ures, will appear at Carnegie InI stitute on Wednesday, Nov. 15, in 
i a series of programs announced 
; for the Pittsburgh cultural center.
The series, which started with 
; the appearance of Robert Frost on 
Oct. 11, extends through the win
ter and is part of the Institutes 
adult education program. For the 
first time this season, single tick
ets as well as series tickets will 
be available.
Tn addition to Bromfield and 
Frost, the education series will 
present this fall Frederic Taubes, 
painter and art authority, on Oct. 
23; Albert Dorne, leading com
mercial illustrator, on Oct. 30; 
and the Bach Aria Group, playing 
and singing Bachs cantatas.
NEW NIXON THEATER - 2 Weeks Beg. Oct. 23
956 Liberty Ave.Matinees Wednesday and Saturday
rrsvv LET'S WELCOME
CARNEGIE TECH TALENT!
 7c $326 ft/Mef/ctf
teiimgar
Pittsburghs Favorites ai 
Broadway Cast 
Jenny Lou Law  Al Checco 
Florence Lord>SS'*3Say*A'y. -, 9Friees: EresOrth. US.MMet. $*.83Half. *5.8II.KSl.SAMatinees Wed. * Sat.: Orch. S8.S5Me*. $?.Bale. St.3St.*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4TAWANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1950
mm 
~-....
Many Tartan football followers are beginning to wonder 
just how good the 1950 Carnegie gridiron machine really is, 
and just why so many supposedly learned football fore
casters had expressed such doubt as to the Plaids chances 
for a successful season this year. Naturally most interested 
parties hoped, and half expected, that the Skibos would 
manage to win three games, and more if they avoided in
juries and received their share of the breaks of the game.
Off their performances in winning the first three encoun
ters quite easily, the Scots appear to be headed toward an even 
more successful season than anyone dared hope. It must be 
realized, however, that the 1950 schedule has definitely been 
in the Tartans favor so far, and that the strongest opponents 
are yet to be met. Both Davis & Elkins and Bethany were ob
viously of lower caliber than is the present Carnegie squad. 
Akron, admittedly stronger than the first two foes, experienced 
one of those afternoons where nothing would work in their favor.
On the other hand, a look at the remainder of the sched
ule reveals that Carnegies future opponents, particularly 
Allegheny, Case, and Lehigh, will provide the Plaid gridders 
with more anxious moments than they have had to experi
ence thus far. Lehigh is undefeated, having handed severe 
lacings to some of the better class B teams in the East. Case 
has lost only one encounter, that a one-point decision to 
Lehigh.
Although few people expect Allegheny to provide any more 
of a hurdle to the Plaid than have the first three opponents, the 
Gators could very easily be the sleeper team capable of knock
ing the undefeated Tartans from their lofty perch. The Hilltoppers played a strong University of Rochester team to a stale
mate, and then dropped a 14-10 decision to Oberlin, another 
powerful grid aggregation. Last Saturday, Allegheny romped 
to an easy win over a good Geneva squad. With Carnegie be
ing the homecoming game for the Meadville boys, the Gators 
will have an added incentive to win.
Certainly this discussion is not meant as an inference 
that the Skibos are not as good a team as their record indi
cates. To the contrary, we feel that the Plaid is capable of 
defeating any of the teams on the schedule. We sincerely 
hope, however, that the three easy victoris recorded so far 
will not serve to create team over-confidence in regard to 
future opponents in general and to Allegheny in particular.
Intramural Entries
Entries for the following intra
mural sports are due on the dates 
shown.
Badminton (Singles and dou
bles)October 20.
Water PoloNovember 8.
VolleyballNovember 8.
Wrestling (Conditoning begins) 
November 6.
Table Tennis (Team)Novem
ber 13.
BowlingNovember 29.
Skibo Harriers Meet Bethany 
After Victory Over Geneva
Allegheny 
Game Info
Opponent: Allegheny College. 
Date: Saturday, October 21,
1950.
Place: College Field, Meadville, 
Pa.
- Cooper, Carmen, Douglas Lead Plaid Scoring; 
Bloom, Draper Place To Secure First Win
The Tartan cross-country team will be after its second victory 
of the season Friday when it travels to Bethany to meet the Bisons. 
In the 1950 opener CIT defeated Geneva by a 26-29 score, Pre
viously, the Covies had lost to Bethany.
Running on a course that was#----------------------------------6------------------
shorter than that to which they 
are accustomed, the Carnegie har
riers found it hard to pace them
selves correctly. However, they 
managed to take second, third, 
fourth, eighth, and ninth places 
along with the win.
Covite First 
Fee, a senior from Geneva, took 
first place with a time of 16:59 for 
the short course. Bob Carmen fol
lowed for CIT in 17:24 with John
ny Cooper and Douglas not far be
hind. Draper and Bill Bloom 
rounded out the Plaid scoring by 
taking eighth and ninth places 
respectively.
Carnegie also had tenth and 
eleventh place with two fresh
men, Englert and Murtland, tak
ing those positions. Coach Guy 
Halferty was pleased with the 
showing and expects several of his 
underclass runners to show much 
better form in the near future.
Outlook Good 
Next weeks meet will be run 
on the regular length course and 
should prove easier for the har[Continued on page 5]
Gridders Seek F our th
Straight At Allegheny
Homecoming Fray At Meadville
Is Sixteenth Meeting Of Teams
On Saturday the Carnegie eleven journeys to Allegheny College 
at Meadville, Pa., hoping to spoil the Gators Homecoming celebra
tion by extending the Tartan win streak to four games. With th 
outcome of the game regarded as a toss-up, the Plaid will have to
*prove their mettle for the first 
time on a strange field.
The visit of the Tartans marks 
the renewal of a 15 game series 
which began in 1906, the first year 
Carnegie fielded a team, and coiitinued with interruptions until
Frosh Floor
Squad Shows
Early Promise /
The freshman basketball squad 
for the season 1950-51 has been 
selected from the many candi
dates that reported earlier this 
Fall. The squad, composed of
Carnegie Soccer Team Losses 
To Frostburg In Opener, 3-1
Ground to a halt by a sea of mud, the Tartan soccer squad fell 
before the Frostburg team by the score of 3-1 Saturday afternoon 
on the home field.
Although the pre-game favorite, the Tech team .never really got 
going until the final quarter, when* '
forward Bob Lipp caged the ball 
for the only Skibo score. The
trol in the mud and the Teachers
had the advantage of three games
Frostburg Teachers scored once in experience over Tech, which keeps
twenty men, looks more promis- the third quarter and twice more the game from being a good indiing this year than have other frosh in the final stanza. cation of things to come.
squads in the past. Last Friday,1 The mud and downpouring rain i
a scrimmage was held between I were the chief factors in the up- , , set, but the loss of Francis Jenkinsthe varsity and'freshman teams. and the jnjury of the gQal keeper
Coach Mel Cratsley of the varsity, ; Ward, were too much for the team.
Time: 2:15p. m..EST.
Lineups:
CITALLEGHENY
PakosLEBallishStahleLTRylander
WisemanLGSpanardKrotecCYarbenetShermeyerEGOcamb
GalandaRTCook
FougereRESchoenfeldBrourmanQBHerrmann
SimcicRHBWatson
LuchokLH BScibettaOberFBMyers
Facts about Allegheny: 
NicknameGolden Gators, Hilltoppers.
ColorsBlue and Gold.
Head CoachL. S. Daddio. 
PresidentLouis T. Benezet. 
Enrollment1000 students. 
Home Stadium: College Field
(3550 capacity).
1922. In this series the Plaid holds 
a nine to five edge in the win 
column, with one tie having been 
recorded.
Won In 1914
Alleghenys last victory over 
Carnegie came in 1914, and the 
Hilltoppers will be priming Satur
day to start on the victory trail 
again.
After holding powerful Rochest
er to a 12-12 tie and bowing in a 
close game to Oberlin 14-10, the 
Blue and Gold of Allegheny 
romped over Geneva last week 
20-7. The men of Coach Daddio 
have shown continued improve
ment and promise to give the Tar
tan team a rough afternoon.
Left Handed Passer
Quarterbacking the Hilltopper 
team will be Carl Herrmann, a 
198-pound junior who will be a 
constant aerial threat with his left 
handed passes.
At the halfback posts, threeyear letterman, Dick Scibetta, a 
razzle-dazzle runner, and Ray 
Herbst, a speed merchant, will 
provide the running threat.
The Homecoming
The veteran line will be headed 
by senior guard, Russ Spanard, 
who was named to last years Dis
trict All Class B college team.
The men from Allegheny Col
lege are as capable a team as the 
Plaid has faced this season and
Director of Athletics: 
Way.
H.Paul | have the reward of a Homecom- 1 ing victory to spur them on.
and Coach Brown of the freshmen, 
reported that both squads 
shaping up very well.
Practice sessions for the next 
two weeks will be strenuous, with 
the coaches attempting to deter
mine who will make up the first 
team. All members of both squads 
will be working to nail down 
starting posts.
Ward, who had played sensation- | 
are al ball, was kneed in the head in 
the third quarter and temporarily 
sidelined..
Jenkins, last years leading 
scorer, has lised up his elegibility, i 
and will be out for the season. His ' 
loss will be seriously felt, but it is j 
expected that one of the many 
reserves will be able to fill-in. j 
The ball was difficult to conExams Tough ?
Dbnt blow your brains out
BUY A CAMERA
And Shoo* Your Head Off
THE FOTOSHOPSquirrel Hill
2004 MURRAY AVE. (Near Beacon)
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evening till 9:00
When the Filter in Medico 
Pipes or Cigarette Holders 
turns brown, throw it 
away with the nicotine, 
tars, juices and flakes 
it has trapped. Insert 
a fresh Filter to get 
cooler, cleaner, 
dryer, purer 
smoking!
Real 
Filters 
,. not mere 
' hollow tubes
2
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY FINE QUALITY) 
Pipes of specially selected imported brior.1i 
Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... 
Also Frank Medico *Standard*... 
America's Outstanding Dollar ($1) Pip* 
frank Medico Cigarette Holders *] & *2MEDICO
FILTER PIPES
_______I
"FRATERNITIES GET YOUR 
HOMECOMING SUPPLIES AT 
THE METAL WAREHOUSE"
Aluminum
Brass 
Bronze 
Copper 
Monel 
Nickel 
Inconel 
Monel Clad 
Nickel Clad 
Inconel Clad 
Rosslyn Metal 
Stainless Steel 
Primary Nickel 
Ferro Alloys
Non-Corrosive Fastenings and 
Accessories 
Fittings and Valves 
afety Equipment 
Seamless Steel Tubing 
Welded Steel Tubing 
Boiler Tubes 
Refrigeration and Air Conditioning 
Supplies 
Welding Machines 
Welding Wire Welding Supplies
Complete stocks carried in all five warehouses.
WILLIAMS & COMPANY, Inc.
General Office and Main Warehouse 
901 Pennsylvania Ave., Pgh. 33, Pa., CEdar 1-8600 
Cleveland - Cincinnati - Columbus - Toledo

---------------------------------------------------

4[ cewy /77u/i/v's4.0A
CO. 1-4200
818 Liberty Ave.
Shows 8:30, 10:30, 12:30
Starts Monday 
JUNE CHRISTY
r>TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1950 T N Page 5
In Orono, Maine, a favorite gather
ing spot of students at the University 
of Maine is the Snack Bar in Carne
gie Library because it is a cheerful 
placefull of friendly collegiate 
atmosphere. And when the gang 
gathers around, ice-cold Coca-Cola 
gets the call. For here, as in college 
haunts everywhereCoke belongs.Contest Rules
^ Plus U State Tax
Ask for it either way ... both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner but also the final score of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decision- in case of ties, entries will be judged on correctness of scores.3. A11 entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry i- submitted, by a student, he or she will be disqualified.5. Entries will bfc judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winner wii be announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges will be final.6. Winner of each weeks contest will receive a Smoker's Kit shown above from the S. M. Frank & Company, Inc.
Tartans Score Third Victory; 
Long Runs Account For Tallies
Akron Runners Stopped By Skibo Defense; 
Heavy Enemy Passing Attack Unsuccessful
Last Saturday at Forbes Field the CIT football team kept their 
undefeated record in tact as they won out over the University of 
Akron Zippers by a score of 26-6.
In gaining their third win of the current campaign, the Skibos 
were severly hampered by the*-----------------------------------
Tartan Lineman Of Tlic Week
thick coat of mud which com
pletely covered most of the field.
Score Earry 
The first Tartan touchdown 
came after three and a half min
utes of the first quarter had gone 
%by when Wilson took a 28-yd. pass 
from Brourman and managed to 
fight his way into the end zone. 
A good conversion by Dissen made 
the score 7-0.
At this point the Akron Zippers 
let loose with their passing attack. 
However, Coach Eddie Bakers 
men managed to knock down 
three consecutive passes to once 
again gain possession of the ball.
A pass from Brourman to Fougere which was ruled complete 
* after interference by the Akron 
safety man, set up the second 
Tartan score. Two plays later, with 
the ball on the 8-yd. line, Irv 
Shecter skirted left end for the 
tally. Once again the conversion 
was booted successfully by Dissen.
70 Yard Run 
With only fifteen seconds of the 
first half remaining, halfback 
Johnny Luchock took the ball on 
. his own 30-yd. line and started 
J around left end. Finding himself 
blocked by opposing backs, he re
versed his field, knifed through the 
Akron secondary, and went the re
maining 70 yards for the third 
Skibo touchdown.
Late in the last period, Simcic 
took a pitch out from Jack Brour
man and cut around right end to 
go 69 yards for the final Tartan 
tally. Dissens attempt for the 
extra point was no good. 
r\ Eight Fumbles
t Finding themselves scoreless 
with time running out, the Zip
pers
After three unsuccessful attempts 
through the air, a pass was com
pleted to put the ball on the Car
negie 16 yard line.
At this point Akron used a half
back pass with a lateraal to the 
left end to place the ball on the 
1 yard line. The next play netted 
the Zippers their only score of the 
afternoon.
The condition of the field proved 
to be disasterous to both teams as 
they recorded eight fumbles.
For the second consecutive 
week, the Tartan has selected 
Floyd Wiseman as the Lineman 
of the Week. In last Saturdays 
game against Akron, Wisemans 
defensive play was particularly 
spectacular.
Although the enire line capably 
i checked the oponents running at
tack, it was Wiseman who fought 
through the line to spill tho enemy 
runners for several substantial 
losses.
Wiseman was responsible for 
calling defensive signals, and the | 
1 statistics prove that he did an exi tremely good job in sizing up the 
i enemy offensive maneuvers.
The hard-hiting, 190-lb. guard
Plaid Opponents
The scores of the games played
so far byCarnegies futureopponents (in capital letters)are
given below
ALLEGHENY12 RochesterifOberlinI4| ALLEGHENY1LEHIGH211 CASE2CASE251 W&J7Dennison20, W&JLEHIGH271 Bucknell6Slippery Rock I9| WESTMINSTERHThiel20! WESTMINSTER7ALLEGHENY20] Geneva7Bethany7| WESTMINSTER7CASE20j Ohio Weslevan13LEHIGH49| GettysburgBucknell34! W&J
Freshman Women 
Down Upper cl ass 
! Team In Hockey
A hard fighting and spirited 
freshman team downed the upper - 
was responsible for several of the ; class team Thursday, Oct. 13 in
Floyd Wiseman
Lineman Of The Week
key blocks as he constantly opened 
up holes in the line for his own 
backs to go through to pay dirt.
Rain Delays Intramural Play; 
League Leaders Still Unbeaten
Last weeks intramural leaders ran pretty much to form this 
week in all touch football leagues. Bad weather, however, caused 
postponement of the Beta Sigma RhoArchitects and Kappa Sigma 
SAE games.
In the Tartan League Theta Xi 
and Emanon remained deadlocked 
for first place as each turned in 
one victory. TX continued their 
winning ways at the expense of 
Beta Theta Pi, 36-7. Haas tallied 
the Betas only touchdown in the 
first quarter on an intercepted 
pass. The TX attack was sparked 
by Bill Oxley.
Emanon Rolls 
A powerful Emanon team 
drubbed the Architects 32-1. Price 
and McShane scored twice for 
Emanon with Nassis tallying the 
other five pointer. The Architects 
were unable to score after the first 
period.
Delta Upsilon continued their 
mastery of the Scottie League by 
turning in victories over the Sad
Cross Country
[Continued from v&Qe 4] 
riers. It should turn out to be a 
elose contest though, as both teams 
were close victors over the Beth
any Bisons.
With four of the first seven TarSacks and The Greatest. The I tan men to cross the finish line
DUs trailed 6-1 at halftime and ' being freshmen, it is easy to see
were forced to come back strong to j that the Plaid leam is on the up- University Club on the
grade. A fifth man was a sopho
more, leaving only one junior and 
one senior in the top seven.
defeat the Sad Sacks 19^12. 
OReilly scored five touchdowns 
to lead the DUs over The Great
est, 37-9.
Tau Delts Strong 
The Tau Deits turned in vic
tories over the Senior Chem Es, 
and SAE to move up to third place 
in the Skibo League. Winick, 
Weaver, and Rabinfeld each scored 
twice as the Tau Delts swamped 
the Senior Chem Es 41-7. Again 
flashing a strong offensive in spite 
Of a muddy field, the Tau Delts 
walloped SAE 46-14.
In other games, the Raiders out
played Sigma Nu A all the way 
to beat them, 29-7, and Newman 
club handed the Senior Chem Es 
their second defeat of the week 
25-12.
Last weeks results:
their annual field hockey game. 
Playing in the womens gym be
cause of poor weather, the girls 
used mush balls instead of hockey 
balls and slid down the finely 
waxed floor. The freshmen opened 
fast and were leading 3-0 at half 
time. The upperclassmen came 
back with two quick goals in the 
second half making the score 3-2. 
The freshmen were not to be beat
en, however, and pushed two more 
tallies across to make the final 
score 5-2.
Carnegies all-school team will 
open its intercollegiate season 
next Thursday when it meets the
cut at
4:30. Tentative games have also 
been scheduled with PCW and 
Winchester-Thurston.
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST ENTRY BLANK 
Games of October 21. 7950
Team Score Team
CARNEGIE TECH .......... ALLEGHENY
Score
CASE
W&J
LEHIGH
PITT
PENN STATE 
OHIO STATE 
DUQUESNE 
STANFORD 
COLUMBIA
JOHN CARROLL
GENEVA
DARTMOUTH
NORTHWESTERN
NEBRASKA
MINNESOTA
ST. BONA VENTURE
UCLA
PENNSYLVANIA
Name ...................................................... Dept.Class.
Emanon Theta Xi Delta Upsilon Delta Upsilon Tau Delts Tau Delts Raiders
Newman Club
32| Architects361 Beta Theta Pi
li Sad Sacks37J The Greatest411 Senior Chem Es46| SAE29| Sigma Nu A"
Pittsburgh Address
25! Senior Chem. E's 12
Pictured below is the attractive Smokers Kit which will be 
awarded to the winner of the Tartan's weekly football contest. The 
kit contains tv'O pipes and two boxes of filters in a convenient zippered case.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit the coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the Tartan. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday for the following days games. 
Any game played prior to midnight Friday will not be included 
in the judging.
Snack Bar in Carnegie Library 
University of Maine 
Orono, Maine
 1950, Th Coco-Colo Compony

---------------------------------------------------

Page TAWAIVTUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1950 ')
MMCC Senate Under Attack 
During Stormy Council Session
No Action Taken On ID Transfer Problem;
Committee Named To Inspect FPHA Dorms
Following a lengthy discussion, Student Council voted last Wed
nesday to accept a revised constitution for the MMCC Senate, thus 
enabling that organization to remain in existence. More light was 
shed on the ID card problem, but no definite action has as yet 
been taken ?------------------------------------------------------
The MMCC rumpus began after 
Dolly Mitchell had reported and 
read revisions for the Senate Con
stitution. With the formation of 
class organizations, the group in 
its old form would be unable to 
exist without causing entangle
ments. It was hoped that the 
changes would make it possible for 
the Senate to continue without 
conflict.
Furthers Loyalty
The main purpose of the MMCC 
group, according to Miss Mitchell, 
is to further a sense of loyalty to 
MMCC. Fred Price asked just 
how the group goes about per
forming its function. He was told 
of various Senate sponsored pro
grams and service projects, in
cluding the contributions of a 1 meetings. 
Life" subscription to the MMCC Library.
Don Schumacher summed up 
the organizations purpose by ex
plaining that it is a tradition be
tween the faculty and student
Pay Own Way
Don Culler sugested that the 
girls pay dues to keep the organi
zation going, thus taking the bur
den off Council. Miss Mitchell 
objected that the topic on the 
floor was that of the constitution, 
not of finances, and requested that 
the original subject be discussed. 
When the vote came, tha new re-i| visions were approved by a mai jority of 14-7.
On again approaching the'pos
sibility of a self-supporting Sen
ate, Culler was told that the ap| proved constitution provides that 
Council foot the bill. During the 
voting on the Senate question, 
, dissenting voices were heard for 
, the first time in this semesters
FPHA Rates
Concerning ID cards, Leonard 
Smollen reported that if they 
were to be used as transferable 
tickets to sports events, they
would be subject to federal tax. 
In their present status they are 
not taxable. Two possible solu, i tions proposed were for any non-In , replying to the subsequent | student using the card to pay the
body. He went on to say that 
this tradition cost Council $50 last 
year.
attack by Council's male repre
sentatives, Miss Mitchell complain
ed that the question has been 
brought up three times this term 
and that every time Council 
changes hands, someone goes to 
see about the Senate. It always 
comes up as a do-nothing organi
zation, added Price.
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
If You're Particular, See the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
PROFESSIONAL 
EYE CARE
 Eyes Examined
 Prescription Glasses
 Fitted. Adjusted, Duplicated.
DR. GERRY BONDY
OPTOMETRIST 
Forbes Building 
Cor. Forbes at Atwood St.
By Appointment Only 
Ml'. 2-6882 or HA. 1-5461Opes Every Evening (Except Mon.)
RENT
a typewriter
and keep up 
with vour work
tax, or for the card to be valid 
to obtain tickets at a reduced 
price.
Concluding Councils important 
business of the day was a sug
gestion, inspired by a letter in a 
recent Tartan that a committee 
look into conditions at the FPHA 
barracks. The proposal received 
unanimous approval.
Faculty Staff 
Adds Nineteen
Professors, Instructors 
Staff Members Named
Two assistant professors, 14 in
structors and three staff members 
have been appointed to the CIT 
faculty.
The two new assistant professors 
are Dr. Vincent P. Carosso, history 
department, and Dr. Walter Kohn, 
physics department.
Dr. Carosso received his AB, 
MA and PhD degrees from the 
University of California, and has 
been a lecturer in history at Cali
fornia, instructor in history at San 
I Jose State College, and Harvard 
i Fellow in Business History at 
: Harvard University.
Dr. Kohn received his BA and 
MA degrees from the University 
of Toronto and a PhD from Har
vard University. He served as an 
instructor at the University of To
ronto and at Harvard.
Appointed as instructors are 
Massimo Bogianckino, instructor 
in piano; Lawrence N. Can jar, in
structor in chemical engineering; 
Pauline E. Crow, instructor in 
mathematics and physics in 
MMCC; Donald P. Lessig, instruc
tor in civil engineering; Maurice 
A. Leverault, instructor J.n print
ing; Douglas A. Russell, instructor 
in stage costume; James B. Wood
ford, Jr., instructor in electrical 
engineering; Richard M. Clayton 
and Claude E. Fike, instructors in 
history; Charles B. Odgen, Richard 
C. Oswant, Lewis J. Owen, and 
Robert H. Walker, Jr., instructors 
in English; and Sgt. 1/C Frank C. 
Westerman, instructor in military 
science and tactics.
The three staff appointments in
clude Robert O. Stanton as branch 
librarian, and Eben Matlis and 
Jacob Eentel as members of the 
Coal Research Laboratory.
AUFHAMMER & EVANS. Inc.
ROY V. BEESE
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
Portables 
Standard Office Machines 
Wide Carriage Machines
Rates as low as
3.50 Mr
3 Mos. $8.75
FIRST RENTAL APPLIES 
TO PURCHASE PRICE
Fort Pitt 
Typewriter Co.
<44 Liberty Aveoe
AT. 1-8320
New Arrow Doubler
Its easy to quick-change with the 
Doubler. For lounging, for sports 
. . . wear the collar open. Close it, add 
a tie . . . and youre set for class or
date. Try it!
3.95
ARROW
UNDERWEAR
SHIRTS & TIES
HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS
Captain Lord 
Takes Post 
As Professor
ROTC Officer Appoint 
To Assistant Position
Captain Nicholas A. Lord, with 
seven years of Army and Air Force 
experience behind him, is begin
ning his new job as assistant pro
fessor of military science and tac
tics this semester.
Captain Lord was commissioned 
second lieutenant in the Corps of 
Engineers in 1940 when he com
pleted his ROTC training at Clark
son Tech at Potsdam, New York. 
Two years later he received his 
wings at Columbus Air Force base 
j in Columbus, Mississippi.
! During World War II, Captain 
Lord instructed pilots in flying the 
IB-25 and A-20 attack bombers.
: Later he was attached to the Sev
enth Air Force in the Far East.
After his discharge in January, 
1946, Captain Lord went into bus
iness as a civil engineer. When he 
reeentered the Corps of Engineers 
in July, 1947, he was sent to Korea 
until November, 1948. After his 
return to the United States in 
June, 1950, Captain Lord trans
ferred to the Second Army and 
was stationed at Carnegie Tech.
CRISPER, CLEANER 
DRAWINGS...use
the world's largest selling
DRAWING PENCILS
Turn in consistently neat, accurate draw 
ings with Venus Drawing Pencils. They 
hold their points and give you opaque 
lines for sharp, clear reproduction.
SMOOTH The lines are uniform in 
weight and tone because the clay and 
graphite in Venus Drawing Pencils are 
blended evenly in the Colloidal* process.
STRONG Venus Drawing Pencils 
are Pressure-Proofed* which means that 
the lead is bonded to the wood. Adds 
extra strength to needle-sharp points.
ACCURATE Your work is easier 
with Venus Drawing Pencils. Scientifi
cally tested at each step of manufacture 
and uniformly graded in all 17 degrees.
For better results, use Venus Drawing 
Pencils with the green crackle finish. Buj 
them at your College Store.
exclusive Venus Patent
FOR THIS HELPFUL 
INSTRUCTION BOOKLET!
Try Venus on your 
drawing board!
Name .
I L
College..
Address_.......
City................
Patronize Tartan 
Advertisers
Your I.D. CARD Means
IRO/.AfI On Jewelry 13/0 WIT Watch Repairs
TIME SHOP
3623 Fifth Ave. SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
UNIVERSITY
RECREATION
Bowling
AFTERNOON, SAT. & SUN. 
BOWLING
407-409 CRAIG ST.
SC. 1-9307
D
Send 25c. for Sketching 
with Venus ... 24 puges 
of valuable illustrated in
struction. Also you get at 
no extra cost a Technical 
Test Kit, featuring 2 Venus 
Drawing Pencils.
American Pencil Company, Hoboken, New Jersey
makers of famous Venus Pens
American Lead Pencil Co. .
Hoboken, N. J. 'Dep., CNI 9501 j
Enclosed is 25c for my copy of 'Sketching  with Venus"and the Technical Tost Kit J 
with 2 Venus Drawing Pencils.
_____State.

---------------------------------------------------

" TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1950Page 7
CARNEGlE-vi/ Cl'  // ir// / j-/
v
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor ......................................................................................Frank Mihelich
News Editor .............................................................................Martha Latza
Reporters ...........................................George Schussler, Robert Ellstrom
Bill Bartoli, Alice Naumetz, Bob Lloyd, Dick Gormick
Braley To Be Featured 
At Evening Hoe-Down
The members of Evening Student Council have made plans to 
bring Si Braley and his orchestra to Thistle Hall. Si is an excellent 
instructor and dance caller. Dont be a wallflower and stay away 
because you dont know the steps. Join the rest of us and learn the
real art of this unusual type of 
dancing.
j The hall will be decorated in a 
manner to please you. If you 
get overheated from your activi
ties, you may escort your partner 
to the Black Cat Lounge where 
refreshments may be procured. 
Although actual dancing will not 
get under way until approximate
ly 9:00 p.m., come early and get 
acquainted with Si and the boys
with a few nractice sets starting 
at 8:30 p.m.
Tickets are 75 cents per person 
and can be obtained from Dal McKelway, evening school registrar, 
IH 132-A; from any member of 
Evening Student Council, or at 
the door. Dont fail to get your 
tickets now. Bring your friends. 
Make it a real Evening-out. 
Dress informal and make sure to 
be there early.
i%Tews
And
Views
Now that evening classes have 
gained momentum, we are again 
on our way to another school year 
that will mean much work, but 
glancing at our evening school so
cial calendar, it could also mean 
some fun too, if we will allow our 
lighter side to accasionally come 
to the front.
For those evening students who 
promised to help with the distri
bution of the Plaid, and who miss
ed our notice in the last edition, 
we would like again to mention 
that the paper locker has been 
changed to locker No. (3605). This 
locker is located directly across 
the hall from the printing depart
ment plaque in Industries Hall.
One never realizes how con
venient the new exit from Indus
tries Hall to Machinery Hall can 
be until it became necessary to 
make a mad dash in a downpour 
of rain.
We understand that recent grad
uate, Michael Gittens, last years 
Evening Student Council presi
dent and recipient of the Evening 
School Achievement Award is now 
enrolled at Pitt. Mike is taking
Editorial
Free Enterprise Dead?
We read and hear a lot of hog-wash now-a-days about the fact 
that individual enterprise is dea<3, and that it is a lost hum m trait. 
Like almost all falsities, if repeated often enough, there i- a possi
bility that you can get a majority of people to believe them, and
-------------------------------------------------?eventually these lies can become
courses dealing with traf- truisms. But as long a> vve findsome 
fic problems.
To anyone that has seen the 
Evening Scouncil Insignia Ban
quet program, we would like to 
mention that Kathy Galligan, a 
member of Evening Student Coun
cil, did the job herself from the 
layout of the program to setting 
up the type. Her father owns a 
printing establishment and Kathy 
helps in her spare time.
The excavation, being done on 
the Forbes street side of the cam
pus, will eventually result in a 
new parking area for students.
Recently met an old friend of 
ours, Tom Cassino. Tom, a mem
ber of Evening Student Council a 
few years ago, left us to enroll in 
day school. He graduated last year 
and is now working for the Car
negie Illinois Steel Company.
It appears that we have an ace 
ticket salesman in Bill Bartoli. 
Bill has already sold 10 tickets to I 
the danc and has promises for 
10 more. Nice work Bill, we need 
more like you.
Enjoy your ogan&e! Enjoy truly -fine tofcao 
tKa* combines kotfi perfect mildness and rich 
taste in one great cigarette - Lucky Strike I
Perfect mildness? You bet. Scientific tests, 
confirmed by three independent consulting 
laboratories, prove that Lucky Strike Is milder 
than any other principal brand. Rich taste? 
Yes, the full, rich taste of truly fine tobacco.
Only fine tobacco gives you both real mildness 
and rich taste. And Lucky Strike means fine 
tobacco. So enjoy the happy blending that com
bines perfect mildness with a rich, true tobacco 
taste. Be HappyGo Lucky!
some individuals who efuse to 
accept this kind of propaganda, 
no matter how often repeated, we 
will still have essentially v. hat 
we have always had, a people who 
will, and can work hard to obtain 
what they want.
In our case again',t these false
hoods we would like to draw upon 
our experiences, and without mal
ice to any other group ./* w uld 
like to confine our argument to 
Carnegie Tech evening students. 
In the first place the ev-n*! -  stu
dent must have .. . .-sed
with an incentive to ..Lie' Aimself when he enrolled in evening 
school. He must ha e e; ized 
that it would mean sacrifice of 
free time, and he also must have 
realized that the hours, would be 
long and the going tough Then 
when we find evening students 
who, besides carrying rugged 
class schedules, still find time to 
devote to extra curricula, activ
ities, which in the end help their 
fellow students, we know without 
a doubt that personal enterprise 
is certainly not a lost trait.
To elaborate a bit on our theme 
we would like to mention a recent
nne
iber
was
the
the
lout
or*
, tou*** <***'*
display of what we consider a 
example of enterprise. A mer 
of Evening Student Council 
assigned the task of editing 
evening school handbook for 
school year 1950-51, and wit 
qua'ms he tackled the job o 
ing the handbook ready ior 
istration night. The faci vl.at 
Council member, with the ai 
his assistant, completed the ] 
ect is meritorious, but the 
we wish to stress is that he 
insisted on helping witli th 
nancing of the handbook. This 
evening student quietly proceeded 
to solicit advertisements that were 
to be used in the bacl: pages of 
the handbook, thus cutting d< 
the high cost of printing. r 
may not mean much to the ca: 
reader, but it proved bey on 
doubt that personal enterprise 
not lost here at evening school.
We could refer to numerous in
stances within the last few years 
concerning the initiative and en
terprise of our group, but we also 
realize that we could become of
fensive by the exclusion of other 
groups, so in conclusion we n 
add that the torch of Ameri 
personal enterprise, like 
torch of American Freedom 
passed on from generation to g 
eration; and although it is at ti 
weak in its intensity, it is n< 
completely extinguished
this 
1 of 
rojpart 
also 
fiust
an
the
is
in
ns
ver
Party Planned 
By Fraternity 
For Oct. 29
All the spooks and goblinis will
be at South Park, Buffalo Inn on
Sunday, Oct. 29, whereSigma
Delta Phi members andtheir
friends are planning to celebrate
Halloween with a good oldfashioned masquerade party Dainting.
games, fun, and plenty ef reifreshments will be provided fc>r everyone. Last but not least,prizes
will be awarded for the nicest and
also funniest costume.
President of the fraternity, By
ron May, wishes to notify mem
bers of this group that there will 
be a formal initiation at the No
vember meeting. Member* are ad
vised to bring pledge* to this 
meeting.

---------------------------------------------------

!
uOMFARE CHESTERFIELD 
WITH ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!
raeioe8*ras merA
, N CAM PDS -A"
LEADING SELLER IN 
. AMERICAS COLLEGES
in Botird
Citcom Sponsors Hayride;
Ne w Officers Elected
Citeom Clan will sponsor a hay
ride this Saturday evening in 
South Park. Beginning at 7:30 
p.m. the hayride will be clim
axed with a weiner roast. Tick
ets are $2.00 per couple and may 
be purchased from Stew Christner.
Those elected to office at the last 
general clan meeting are as fol
lows: Bud Yaros, vice-president; 
Lawrence Miller, general activi
ties chairman: Eunice Brunn, sec
retary. Also electt% were Louise 
White and Robert McQuaide, who 
will represent the freshmen clan 
members for the entire year.
United Nations Films 
Scheduled For This Week
The United Nations will be the 
theme of a series of film programs 
to take place at 8:00 p.m. in the 
H. C. Frick school auditorium. 
Their programs also include a 
qualified speaker and a discus
sion period. Admission is free.
On Oct. 19, United Nations Day, 
films to be shown are The Peo
ples Charter,* Defense of the 
Peace, Searchlight on the Na
tions, and There Shall be 
Peace.
Tau Beta Pi Schedule 
For Tutoring Service
Painting Exhibit Opens 
At Carnegie Institute
Pittsburghs International Ex
hibition of Painting opens Oct. 
li and will run through Dec. 21, 
the Department of Fine Arts at 
Carnegie Institute announced. 
Three-hundred and sixty paint
ings will represent 11 nations.
The exhibition of Current 
American Prints of 1940 will also 
open on Oct. 19 and will close on 
Dec. 31. It will include 115 prints 
selected from the Eighth National 
Exhibition of Prints held this 
year at the Library of Congress 
in Washington, D. C.
"Answers To Communism" 
Subject For Tecknon Club
Answers to Communism is 
the subject of a Tecknon Club 
meeting this Wednesday at 6 p.m. 
The non-sectarian club meets at 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church 
with Dr. Howard Scarfe as ad
visor.
New officers of Tecknon Club 
are Bill Kail, president; Charlotte 
Merriman. vice-president; Shirley 
Herman, secretary; and Bob 
Knuth, treasurer.
Tecknon meets every Wednes
day at 6:00 with a dinner meet
ing.
Camera Club Meets;
Dark Room Discussed
The first meeting of the camera 
club sponsoi'ed by Claymore Clan 
was held on Oct. 11. The chemistiy of photography, was discussed, 
and plans were made to obtain a 
dark room. Membership in the 
club is open to all dorm students.
Big-Little Sister Tea 
Planned For Next Sunday
All Big and Little Sisters are in
vited to attend a formal tea, spon
sored by the YWCA, at the Union 
Sunday, Oct. 22, from 2:00 to 4:00 
p.m.
Any freshmen or transfers who 
do not have Big Sisters are urg
ed to come.
Course 
S-101 
S-102 
S-201 
S-221 
S-222 
S-223 _S -22 4 S-231 S-232 S-403 S-404 E-401 E-40<!E -505
Day 
Wednesday 
Wednesday 
To be sched 
Tuesday 
Monday 
Tuesday Tuesday Monday Wednesday Wednesday Thursday Monday Thursday Mondav
Time 
4:3.0 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
uled
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m. 
4:30 P.O. 4:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m.
Room 
EH 120
EH 205
IH 210 
IH 211
IH 208 IH 211 IH 210 IH 210 EH 207 EH 20 MH 105 MH 105 MH 101
Tau Sigma Delta Elects
Officers For Coming Year
Tau Sigma Delta, an honorary 
for Architecture and Painting and
Design students, has elected its 
officers for the coming "ear.
From the P&D department, 
Ssmuel Han has been made Grand 
Master. From the architecture 
department, Arthur Godfrey has 
been elected Scribe and Edward 
Preskar, recorder. ^
New members will be announe 
ed in a future Tartan.
Received New Shipment 
of Artist's Brushes at
Give-a-way prices
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. MA. 1-0923
Westinghouse Open House 
Held Next Saturday
All interested students are in
vited to attend the Westinghouse 
annual open house at the East 
Pittsburgh plant on Oct. 21. Events 
include demonstrations of casting, 
high voltage lightning, modern 
kitchen and living room displays, 
and super-sensitive measuring 
equipment. A souvenir booklet 
will be given to each person at
tending.
DANCE
. . . To . . .
STAN KENTON
and his Orchestra 
WED. NIGHT, OCT. 25
CHES-A-RENA
Route 28  Cheswicli, Pa,
Tickets available at the door. 
$2.00 per person, tax included.
BEFORE YOU SMOKE THEM 
...you can tell Chesterfields will smoke milder, 
because tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder.
AFTER YOU SMOKE THEM 
...you have no unpleasant after-taste. 
WHILE YOU SMOKE THEM you get more pleasure than 
any other cigarette can give you  that's why millions of 
smokers say: THEY SATISFY.
page 8_________________________ TA4OT*AN Tuesday october 17, 1950^
