ForumSportsDiversionsCalendar...
Ciassfied...Comics....Diversions.Features...,Forum.....Sports....
VoxPopuli..
Americans display 
cultural ignorance  
see page 9
Young basketball 
teams make debut  
see page 9
Read about local 
stage productions  
see page L9
Community protests censorship of bboards
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor'
is inconsistent with the principles 
of academic freedom and free 
speech, which a great University 
must defend, and is based on a 
serious misreading of relevant 
laws.
The rally was peaceful and did 
not run into problems. Dean of 
Student Affairs Michael Murphy 
said, I thought [that] the rally 
was the chosen vehicle to get the 
point across. It was well orga
nized.
Reaction from the crowd was 
seemingly one-sided. Chris 
Newman, who works for Com
puting Services and is himself a 
CMU alumnus, said that he is 
developing a replacement for the 
Andrew message system and that 
I would feel offended if my soft
ware was used on a system that 
censored things. Marshall 
Warfield, a freshman Creative 
Writing major said, As a writer, 
free speech has significant im
pact on me... free speech matters 
to me... how CMU treats free 
speech determines whether or not 
I stay at this university. Riley 
said after the rally, I think that 
the administrations attempt to 
censor harmful information on 
the net is condescending and pa
tronizing. CMU should give stu
dents enough credit and have 
enough faith that we can be exPlease see RALLY page 3
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Personnel Manager
CMU must protect you from your- rial, and that advertising on the 
selves. Internet is illegal. But at the rally,
Most stu- Godwin
bboards is a ' tionhasnt
dent use of iiflfPfTirj? ever been
mate educa- *nS these
tional discus- n e w s
sions about top- Ca iagl r"- groups.
ics like sexual : _____ '_____ Godwin
abstinence, Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor also said
safe sex, and Peter Berger spoke to students arguing that he 
the avoidance against censorship of the bboards. had previof sexually ously spotransmitted diseases. Theres of- ken with the Universitys legal 
ten no other place for students to office and the response was, So 
get this information. The Uni- what if the risk is low. We dont 
versity feels that the bboards vio- want to be a test case. 
late Pennsylvania law on three Andrew Sproule, Editor-incounts. Bill Arms, the vice presi- Chief of The Tartan, made referdent of Computing Services, and ence to the book Catcher in the 
the Computing Services repre- .Rye which was argued at one time 
sentative at an emergency Stu- to be obscene. Sproule used this 
dent Senate meeting held last example to demonstrate how cenMonday, stated that legally ob- sorship can affect the University 
scene material may not be dis- as a whole, 
tributed, that no one under 18 Donna Riley, a graduate stumay have access to erotic mate- dent in Engineering and Public
Policy, spoke at the rally from a ing decision. Berger also atwomans point of view. Another tended the Senate meeting on 
argument surrounding the issue November 7 and spoke about the 
of the bboards is the degradation ambiguity in the definition of 
of women, as most of the graphi- obscenity. He said that the defical bboards display women. Riley nition had been applied in very 
said, I will admit... [the bboards] few legal cases, 
reflect and perpetuate violence The final speaker was Vic 
against women... but censorship Walczak, the Executive Director 
is not the answer. Rileys speech of the Pittsburgh American Civil 
went out to the women at CMU Liberties Union (ACLU). The 
as well as to President ACLU sent an open letter to Presithat we" ' ^ ^ Snyder/Tartan photo Editor
need to be Approximately 350 people attended Wednesdays rally
e m p o w - to show their disapproval of the change in policy.
ered and
encouraged to express our desires dent Mehrabian last Tuesday. In 
however we damn well please. the letter, the ACLU urge[d] 
Peter Berger, a CMU alumnus Carnegie Mellon University to 
and a representative of Telaroma reconsider and reverse the deciInternet in Mt. Washington, sion to prohibit student access to 
spoke after Riley. Berger said, six network news groups which 
CMU is taking the moral low deal with sexual topics. We do 
road... [in a] horribly embarrass- believe that the Universitys plan
In an effort to reverse the 
administrations decision to elimi
nate seemingly pornographic 
bboards from CMUs computer 
system, students organized a rally 
against censorship on the steps 
of Warner Hall last Wednesday. 
Over 350 students, faculty, ad
ministrators, and staff attended 
the rally that lasted approxi
mately one hour and fifteen min
utes and featured speakers from 
on and off campus.
As of last Tuesday, CMU had 
decided to cut all alt.news bboards 
that contained sexually explicit 
text and graphics. This prompted 
students to organize the rally they 
called Freedom in Cyberspace.
Im here because of the immi
nent death of academic freedom 
at CMU, said Mike Godwin, staff 
counsel for the Washington, D.C. 
based Electronic Frontier Foun
dation (EFF). Godwin was the 
keynote speaker of the event and 
began the rally after an introduc
tion by Student Body President 
DeclanMcCullagh. Godwin spoke 
of the uniqueness of the Internet 
and how it is a medium far differ
ent from television or newspa
pers. Godwin said that the uni
versity is wrong in thinking that 
merely because you are students,
IM, GSIA coordinate curriculum
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Industrial Management (IM) has never 
had a home on the CMU campus. Now it 
does. IM has been adopted by The 
Graduate School of Industrial Adminis
tration (GSIA), formally just a gradu
ate level college, but now branching out 
into the undergraduate population.
This connection, however, is not ex
actly a merger. GSIA refers to it as 
taking IM underneath the umbrella of 
GSIAs curriculum. According to Ilker 
Baybars, deputy dean of Economics, IM 
is GSIAs program. Were only changing 
the structure of things. Instead of the 
freshman having to take a lot of general 
education requirements at the very be
ginning, we now have them taking intro
ductory business courses.
We are, in essence, exposing them to 
the Industrial Management side of 
things much earlier on. Before, , they 
wouldnt begin to go into the business 
aspect of things until their junior and 
senior years.
Now, however, the incoming fresh
man class is required to take an intro
ductory business course at the begin
ning of the year.
In years past, students spent their 
first two years taking general education 
requirements and then went into an 
area of concentration. These areas were 
generally Humanities and Social Sci
ences or Engineering.
The concentrations went hand-inhand with the business curriculum. Now 
they begin with a mixture of general 
education requirements and business
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photographer
Dondre Greenhouse purchases groceries at Entropy under the watchful eye of the 
new security camera. The camera is expected to discourage theft.
Entropy installs new surveilance camera
By ComuCon itypro
Tartan Staffwriter
A warning to all the kleptomaniacs 
n campus: on November 10, a video 
camera was installed in Entropy. Ac
cording to Patricia Stacer, the man
ner of Retail Services, it is nothing 
really new; we are just keeping up 
with the times.
Security mirrors were installed in 
Entropy approximatelyl0-12 years 
ago, but when workers attempted to 
remove them for relocation to the tem
porary student center, the mirrors 
broke.
The camera, which cost $300, was
recommended to Stacer by CMU Secu
rity Chief Jim La Paglia.
When asked whether or not theft is 
a big problem in Entropy, Stacer said 
that theft is always going to be a big 
problem, for when an individual en
ters a store, they are not always going 
to make a purchase.
Cameras and other such security 
devices are located in all other retail 
outlets on campus, such as the Co-op 
and the bookstore.
When asked if anyone had been 
caught by the use of such devices, 
Stacer would not answer the question 
directly, but said that the devices had 
Please see, ENTROPY page 5

---------------------------------------------------

IM,G MSAcSo r dSAoGinG aGtteo u lm EepGysGA lwwm
Republicans obtain 
control of Congress
ATLANTA, November 8  U.S. 
Representative Newt Gingrich, who 
won his ninth term in office Tuesday, 
appeared to be on the verge of becom
ing the first Republican House speaker 
in four decades. Earlier in the evening, 
Gingrich said that trend lines among 
the House races across the country 
looked stronger than GOP leaders had 
anticipated. Two national television 
networks correctly predicted that the 
GOP would win more than the 40 
seats it neededfor control ofthe House.
Current Speaker of the House Tom 
Foley narrowly lost in his re-election 
bid to Republican challenger George 
Nethercutt. Republicans swept nine 
open Senate seats on Tuesday.
Inaddition, Senator RichardShelby 
of Alabama defected to the Republican 
camp. This gave the Republicans a 
53^17 lead. In the house, Republicans 
also returned all their incumbents to 
Washington. In addition to winning 
the Senate seats in which no incum
bent was running, Republicans scored 
key wins against incumbent Demo
crats Harris Wofford of Pennsylvania 
and Jim Sasser of Tennessee. Demo
cratic New York Governor Mario 
Cuomo suffered a shocking defeat 
Tuesday when he was narrowly beaten 
by Republican challenger George 
.Pataki.
Pataki, a New York state senator, 
was unknown nationally until his bit
ter, expensive campaign against the 
three-term Cuomo. Cuomo, who de
cided against a run for President in 
1992 turned down the opportunity for 
a U.S. Supreme Court nomination by 
President Clinton earlier this year, 
fought back in the polls toward the 
end of the campaign, but on Election 
Day it wasnt enough to overcome 
Patald.
Pataki focused his campaign largely 
on the perception that Cuomo had 
raised taxes, overspent, and generally 
not lived up to expectations.
Computer developed to run major software
NEW YORK, November 9 (DJ)  
Apple Computer Inc. and International 
Business Machines Corp. have embarked 
on a quest to make a universal personal 
computer, one that eventually could run 
all major software systems. But to suc
ceed, they will have to avoid the mis
takes that have dogged their other part
nerships for the past three years.
In 1991, the two companies announced 
three major initiatives: a joint effort to 
develop a common microprocessor, a 
joint venture called Taligent Inc. that 
would create a powerful new operating 
system, and Kaleida Labs Inc., which 
was to give consumers software that 
would let them play any kind of multimedia program on PCs, game players, 
and TV set-top boxes. With as much as 
$300 million invested by Apple and IBM 
so far, Taligent has delayed the operat
ing system and is reduced to getting out 
a niche product, so-called software tools, 
for programmers. Kaleida, the recipient 
of about $150 million, according to some 
analysts, has dropped the software for 
players and set-top boxes and is late in 
coming out with a scaled-down product 
that many observers think will bomb.
Software by committee is always di
sastrous, says Tim Bajarin, an indus
try consultant in San Jose, Calif. The 
biggest fear goinginto the joint ventures 
was that Apples L.L. Bean types would 
clash with IBMs blue suits. But cultural 
conflict wasnt significant. Inflated ex
pectations, on the other hand, were a 
problem. Former Taligent managers say 
they spent the first year surveying cus
tomers, only to discover they didnt want 
Pink because it wasnt designed to 
work on the corporate networks com
mon in corporations. Taligent research 
uncovered a more startling truth: With 
so many operating systems already in 
the market, few people wanted another. 
Joseph M. Guglielmi, Taligents chief 
executive, was forced to delay the oper
ating system plan and focus on a lessgrandiose layer of object-based soft
ware that would lie on top of an existing 
operating system. Microsoft already has 
marketed such a software layer for about 
two years, and is expected to finish a 
complete object-based operating system, 
code-named Cairo, in 1996. The 
Taligent layer, when it comes out some
time next year, will be too little, too late, 
many observers believe. They are so 
out of touch with the marketplace that I 
think its unlikely what they will pro
duce, says John Colligan.
Cable TV savings 
could be ending
WASHINGTON, November 10 (DJ)
 Six months after cutting cable televi
sion rates by seven percent, the Federal 
Communications Commission approved 
a plan today that could erode the sav
ings thatmillionsofsubscribers expected 
to receive.
The plan would allow increases in regu
lated cable rates to encourage system 
owners to put on more channels, which 
supporters said would give subscribers 
more for their money and expand view
ing choices.
Since rate regulation took effect last 
year, systems have added few channels 
to their lineups, saying that regulations 
discouraged them from doing so.
The FCCs plan would let the nations 11,000 local cable systems charge sub
scribers more when they add channels 
to regulated levels of service. An esti
mated 59 million households subscribe 
to cable television. Under the plan, cable 
operators could charge up to $1.50 a 
month or a total of $18 a year  over a 
two-year period, FCC officials said. In 
return, subscribers could get at least six 
new channels.
The FCC wants to limit the number of 
channels that cable operators could add 
to regulated services.
The price here would go through the 
roof. Thats the line we were forced to 
draw, saidFCC Chairman ReedHundt.
The plan, which doesnt include ad
justments for inflation, applies to chan
nels added only to expanded basic tiers, 
said FCC attorney Paul DAri. Rate in
creases would take effect January 1.
Consumers are getting about 10 per
cent more in added channels for a very 
modest increase of about 2.5 percent per 
year, said National Cable Television 
Association spokesman Rich DAmato. 
This is more product for a very limited 
price increase.
While acknowledging that very few 
channels have been added since regula
tion, consumer lobbyist Bradley Stillman 
said: The Consumer Federation of 
America would have preferred if the 
FCC had not done a rate adjustment at 
all.
History teaching to change format
NEW YORK, November 10  New 
history standards will be announced by 
a federal education panel that will re
direct their scope beyond old Europe and 
toward a study of the entire world as 
opposed to just Western civilizations.
The change will allow a refocusing on 
events not normally covered in history 
classes including Chinas Song dynasty,
which invented paper currency, gun pow
der and book printing.
The voluntary standards will not lose 
focus on the Greek city-states and the 
Roman Empire. But it will add studies 
on the Mauryan Empire in India as well 
as the Olmec civilization that influenced 
the Zapotec and Mayan civilizations in 
Meso-America. The new system will force 
students not merely to memorize facts 
but to analyze them as well. History will 
be broken up into eight sections, and 
students will observe changes that af
fected a number of people and had broad 
signifigance for the future.
The plan has already been approved 
by a number of historians and educa
tors. However, parts of the change can 
be controversial, since many have ar
gued against multiculturalism. The new 
curriculum will try to encourage chil
dren at a young age to looks beyond the 
here and now and to open up to the 
possibility of new horizions.
Republican joins 
Presidential race
WASHINGTON, D.C. November 13
 The race for the republican nomina
tion for President is on, as Senator Phil 
Gramm this week announced he would 
vie for the Presidency. He took the op
portunity to take a shot at his potential 
rival, Sen. Bob Dole, by arguing that he 
had no commitment to overhauling big 
government.
The list was added to Monday, when 
Sen. Arlen Specter, a moderate from 
Pennsylvania, threw his hat into the 
ring. Many Republicans all want the 
opportunity to taken the President after 
he was weakened by the mid-term elec
tions.
Gramm made his announcement Sun
day, on NBCs Meet the Press. He 
added that he would submit the legal 
papers this week, but not announce his 
candidacy until March.
Gramm is 52 felt he would make a 
better president than the next Senate 
majority leader, Dole. Gramm is a con
servative and believes in deep cuts in 
federal spending. Dole differs from 
Gramm because he is in a leadership 
position where he needed to compromise 
in order to get bills passed.
Dole hasnt yet decided whether or not 
he will run for the nations highest of
fice. He said he will make that decision 
by February 15. He sees no problem 
with running and handling the respon
sibilities of majority leader.
A news conference has been scheduled 
for Monday in three separate states so 
Gramm can observe how much appeal 
he has with moderates. This is an addi
tional option to conservatives.
Specter became nationally known 
when known when he received harsh
questioning of Anita Hill during the 
Clarence Thomas hearings.
Last weekend, Gramm and Dole went 
to Iowa because its the Republicans \ 
first caucus takes place.
The presidential election has curved 
to the right with the startling elections 
this week. The republican votes have 
given the conservative party better 
chances for a president in 1996.
Other possible candidates for the 96 
election are former Secretary of State 
James Baker, former Vice President Dan 
Quayle and former Housing secretary 
Jack Kemp. Many people hope to see the 
former Chairman of the Joint Chief of 
Staff, General Colin Powell lead the party 
to victory. Powell has yet to pledge himself to a party.
GM announces a recall of trucks
DETROIT, November 11 (DJ) General Motors Corp. is expected to an
nounce today that it is recalling 79,000 
of its 1993 pickup trucks and sportutility vehicles because the transmissions may not fully engage in the park 
position, possibly allowing them to roll.
Two other GM recalls are expected to 
be announced today, but details couldnt 
be determined and GM wouldnt com
ment. However, Pontiac dealers say GM 
is recalling certain 1995-model 
Bonnevilleis because the headlights and 
parking lights sometimes go out.
Dealer service departments are in
stalling new lamp-control modules to 
fix the problem on SE and SSE versions 
of the cars. Sudden loss of headlamp 
lighting could reduce driver visibility,- 
GM says in a notification to dealers.
Dealers couldnt say how many ve
hicles are affected by the headlight re
call or whether any injuries or accidents 
were caused by the problem.
A GM spokesman didnt return phone 
calls.
Separately, however, the company con
firmed dealer reports that it is recalling 
nearly 2,000 1995-model Pontiac 
Bonnevilles and Oldsmobile NinetyEights because the headlights and park
ing lights sometimes go out.
Dealer service departments are in
stalling new lamp control modules to 
fix the problem. Sudden loss of 
headlamp lighting could reduce driver 
visibility,
News Briefs Courtesy 
Dow Jones News Service
Briefs Compiled by 
Max Chittister
: Layout by
Edward Hayes
Sign-ups for the
15-12X Mastery Exam
begin onMonday November 14
Sign-up HoursMon-Fri 9 am to 4 pm
To sign up, see:
Becky Clark, Wean 3111 X8-6737

---------------------------------------------------

M,G MSAcSo v dSAoGinG aGtteo v lm EepGysGA lwwm11
Teams fumble chances to finish undefeated
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
Every so often, a team enters 
November or December with an 
undefeated record, and the press 3 bonkers. Can this team go 
ndefeated? Can it go 16-0? Do 
they have the stuff that the 1972 
Dolphins had? The answer since 
1972 has always been no. Why?
Well, there are several reasons,. 
but the biggest reason is the 
ftFLs new salary cap. In the last 
few years, if you have followed 
football at all, you may have no
ticed that few teams have posted 
even 14-2 records, and since the 49ers in the mid-80s, no team 
has posted a 151 record. In a few 
years, once the salary cap has 
had a chance to take effect, teams 
may have a problem posting a 
13-3 record. The salary cap has 
the tendency to spread talent 
around the league. Every team 
can afford at least one big-name 
player, and every team is going to 
try to get one over these next few 
years. The best teams in the
league can still hold on to the core 
of their best players (e.g. the Cow
boys), but they can seldom afford 
to hold onto their backup players 
who find starting jobs on other 
NFL teams. Therefore, a good 
team doesnt necessarily lose 
much talent (if it stays healthy), 
but their weekly opponents be
come stronger because they can 
afford to go out and sign at least 
one big-name player.
Besides the salary cap, there is 
the longer schedule. Not only are 
there two more weeks in the sea
son, but there is still a bye week. 
This means more time for a team 
to lose its focus or have key play
ers get injured. The 1972 Dol
phins were no doubt a great team, 
but dont forget they only had to 
win 14 regular season games, 2 
playoff games, and a Super Bowl. 
Modem day teams have to win 16 
games stretched over 17 weeks 
before they are in the playoffs.
Then you have the press. When
ever a team even gets close to 
goingundefeated, the press starts 
to put pressure on the team to go 
all the way. The Dolphins had it 
easier because they were the first 
to do it. No one thought it could be 
done until the Dolphins went out 
and showed that they could in
deed do it.
Finally, dont forget that foot
ball was a lot different back then.
First, there were fewer teams and 
fewer philosophies. Back then, 
you passed or ran, you blitzed or 
played zone. Now a team might 
play the conservative ball-control Giants one week and the wide
Mark Eggert/Tartan 
open run-and-shoot Lions the 
next. Second, football is taken 
more seriously nowadays. For 
example, on any given week, an 
average team may play a team 
like the 49ers or Cowboys on 
Monday Night Football in front 
of a national audience. You bet
ter believe that that average team 
is going to play its heart out on 
national television against such 
a good opponent. (Just as the 
Lions did early this year against 
the Cowboys.) Back in the 70s, 
there were fewer nation-wide
appearances (even for teams like 
the Dolphins) and no Monday 
Night Football.
In other words, with all these 
modem day factors, it is too diffi
cult to go undefeated because too 
many things can go 
wrong. You might lose 
a game due to the sal
ary cap taking away a 
key player. You could 
lose if your defense 
cant adjust to the runand-shoot offense. You 
might lose a game due 
to injury, or just the 
loss of the teams fo
cus. The list goes on. 
So hail to the 1972Dol
phins, probably be
coming the only mod
ern-day undefeated 
football team in NFL 
history.
Alittle side note: The 1972 Dol
phins went 17-0, beating the 
Redskins 147 in the Super Bowl. 
They went undefeated thanks to 
great defense (The No-Name 
Defense) and an incredible run
ning game (including Mercury 
Morris, Jim Kiick, and Larry 
Czonka in th backfield). They 
were so good on the ground that 
they were able to go undefeated 
despite the fact that their start
ing quarterback, Bob Greise, was 
injured for a couple of games at
the end of the season.
Week 10 was another good week 
for me. Once again I picked three 
of five games running my record 
for the year to 22-18(55 percent). 
If you remember Week 10, how
ever, you may remember that I 
picked the Colts to upset the Dol
phins. Those dam Dolphins ru
ined that prediction with a lastsecond field goal to get a onepoint victory!
Top Five Picks for 
Week 12
1. Miami at Pittsburgh
The Steelers never play well 
after a Monday Night Football 
game, even when the next game 
is at home. Meanwhile, the Dol
phins running game has been 
effective despite all the injuries, 
and of course, Dan Marino is no 
pushover. This is going to be a 
real test for the Steelers on both 
sides of the ball. Dolphins 17-6.
2. Green Bay at Buffalo
The Pack is back?! You can 
never be sure with the Packers, 
but I think they are on their way 
back to respectability. Anyway, if 
they can beat the Bills in Buffalo, 
Ill be a believer. Dont let Bruce 
Smith hear this prediction, okay? 
Packers 2316.
3. Cleveland at Kansas City
The Chiefs have had a lot of 
problems lately. The Browns de
fense is effective against the run 
and will give Marcus Allen 
troubles. However, the Browns 
secondary is their weakness, and 
Joe Montana will be more than 
happy to exploit it. Chiefs 30-24.
4. Atlanta at Denver
The Broncos have shown some 
life over the last few weeks. The 
John Elway-Shannon Sharpe con
nection is once again alive and 
well in Denver, lifting the offense. 
The Broncos defense still needs a 
lot of work, but this week they 
should be adequate enough to 
knock the struggling Falcons off. 
Broncos 35-25.
5. Philadelphia at Arizona
A few weeks ago, the Eagles 
shut the Cardinals out, winning 
by a score of 17-0. This week the 
Eagles have to travel to Arizona 
to play the Cardinals in a 
rematch. The weak Cardinals 
offense will get on the board this 
time, but this years rejuvenated 
Eagle offense will still score 
enough points against Buddy 
Ryans defense to win. Eagles 30- 
19.
John Weber is a senior civil 
engineering major.
Both soccer teams exceeded expectations
SOCCER, from page 9
spectacular season. They were 
picked to finish fifth in the 
UAA, but they were a serious 
contender for the UAA title.
Their final game against. 
Chicago, which they lst on a 
disputed penalty lack, was the 
difference between the UAA 
championship and their third 
place finish, with a 4-11 
record.
In spite of the disappointing 
finish, their i 3 -3 -2 record 
earned the Tartans a fifth
place ranking ini-he Ureat Lakes 
region.
Keadeoach Julie Shackfordwas 
amazed with her teams perfor
mance this season.1
They definately exceeded all 
ofour expectations, she said.'Be
fore the season, my goals were to 
get 10 wins and to finish fourth in 
the IJAA. I had no idea we would 
endup getting a regional ranking 
at all.
The team set three new school 
records this season. Their 12 shut
outs, 10-game unbeaten streak,
and seven-gaine winning streak 
all set new marks. The Tartans 
13 wins tied the record for most 
wins in a season.
The team came.together at the 
right times every time during theseason, said Shackford. It was 
amazing how the team stepped 
up tobasicafly ever challenge that 
we were given. Its definately their 
commitment to the program that 
has made us so successful.
Four members of the team were 
voted to the All-UAA team. Jun
ior forward Nicole Poisson was
selected to the first team.
She led the Tartans offensive 
effort and was second in the UAA 
with 32 points offofl3 goals and 
six assists.
Tartans selected to the second 
team included senior midfielder 
Christina Isaly, sophomore 
midfielder Alyssa Newman, and 
sophomore goalie Jill Weber.
Newman was the Tartan's sec
ond leading scorer with 10 goals 
andour assists for 24 points. Isaly 
was fourth on the team in scoring 
with 11 points.
Weber recorded 84 saves and
10 shutouts on the season. In 
conference play, she led the UAA 
with a 0.45 goals-against aver
age. Her overall average of 0.87 
was second in the conference.
According to Shackford, Nicole 
and Alyssa definately stepped up 
as leaders on the field. Christina 
has always done well for us, and 
Jill, as strong as she was last 
year, came back even stronger. 
Shackford also emphasized the 
importance of total team effort. 
I think we are more of a team
than a lot of these other 
schools, she said. There are 
definately some other players 
who deserve recognition as 
well, but there are so many.
Even with the loss of some 
talented seniors, the team is 
setting higher goals for next 
season.
You lose talent, you lose 
.experience, and you lose lead
ership. and those are hard to 
replace, said Shackford. But 
we have a very strong nucleus 
coming back.
Womens hoops loaded with underclassmen
HOOPS, from page 9
I will be out until January at the earliest. 
In the interim, time will be split at the 
position by a pair of sophomores, Kelly 
: Gaitens, 57, and Tracy Bach, 57.
I At power forward, there will be a rota
tion of players comprised of freshman 
! Katie OLeary, 511, freshman Jerry 
Riley, 58 and sophomore Daphne Har| ris, 58.
A significant role will also be played by 
sophomore Tracy Coalter who will be a 
backup to Gretz. According to Seidel,
Coalter is one of our most improved 
players. She is one of the smarter play
ers and has a nice release on her shots.
As for overall team goals, Seidl is look
ing for the team to finish over the .500 
mark, and due to the ability to play 10 
people, Seidl plans on running an up
tempo, pressing type game plan.
Seidl describes this team as a nice 
hardworking group of people. One of the 
best groups Ive ever had. They just need 
some time to get some experience. She 
also desrcibes the team as being in bet
ter shape as a whole, than last year. 
They want to win, and they have
They want to win, and they have 
dedication.... We may surprise a 
few teams."
 coach Gerri Seidl
dedication, said Seidl.
The toughest games of the year will be
against UAA opponents New York Uni
versity, University of Chicago, Emory 
University, and 
Washington Uni
versity, which has 
won the UAA ev
ery year since its 
inception, except 
for 1991, when they 
shared the title 
with the Tartan
women.
Seidl looks to play the role of the
Cinderella team; she says,we may sur
prise a few teams.
The Tartans will kick off the 1994-95 
season the weekend as they square off 
against Bethany College at 3 pm in the 
main gymnasium in a four-team tourna
ment.
The game will be the second of the 
tournament (the first is at noon Satur
day), which will then pit the winners of 
the two Saturday games against each 
other in the championship game at 3 pm 
Sunday afternoon.
goback
toHIGH
SCHOOL?
The Office of Admissions is running itsHIGH SCHOOL AMBASSADOR PROGRAM
It is a chance for CMU students to visit their 
hometown high schools over winter break and 
talk with students about their experiences at 
Carnegie Mellon!
Interested? 
You must attend one of these meetings:
TUESDAY, DEC. 6
6 pm to 7 pm 
Office of Admissions, Warner Hall 100
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 7
6 pm to 7 pm
Office of Admissions, Warner Hall 100
classified
ADOPTION
Loving Caucasian couple seeking to 
adopt infant. Call 1-800-585-8014.
Caring couple eager to provide 
newborn with lots of love, security, and 
a happy home and a great future. 
Expenses paid. Please call Carol and 
Jerry anytime. 1 -800-349-4452
fORSALE
Computers Sc Parts- 486 VESA:425 Mb 
Hard Drive, 4 &8 Mb RAM, 1 Mb 
Diamond Accelerated LB VESA Video, 
14".28dp 1024x768 Non-interlaced 
monitor, mouse, 3 hrs training/tutorial. 
2yr warranty. SI 379 &S1529. Delivery 
$25. 80Mhz-add $150. Also others, 
laptops, CD-ROM Mitsumi double speed 
installed $179. RAM SI 79, 540Mb WD 
HD $299, 730Mb WD HD $359. Call 
681-6621 Ice Nine Computers, Oakland 
for Everything!
HP 48SX Scientific Expandable 
Calculator with Equation Library. 
Performs calculus, statistics, algebra, 
finance and more. Equation Library is 
easy to use and performs unit conver
sion and programmed with Periodic 
Table and equations for Statics, Fluids, 
Electricity and more. Paid $350, will 
sacrifice for $250 OBO. Call 795-5799 
or 795-7313.
JOUSING
Shadyside- Large sunny studio. Airconditioning, dishwasher, ceiling fan, 
garbage-disposal, new floors, carpeting. 
Secure building. In great condition! S425/mo. 
Call 362-8381.
Squirrel Hill- Spacious, furnished, onebedroom apartment. Next to Bus. Washer & 
dryer. S495/mo includes all utilities. 422- 
3812 Available December.
JOBS
National Park Employment. Over 25,000 
openings! Excellent benefits & bonuses. For 
more information call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. 
N52361
Cruise Ships Now Hiring - Earn up to 
$2,000+/ month working on Cruise Ships or 
Land Tour companies. World travel (Hawaii, 
Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Seasonal and 
Full-Time employment available. No 
experience necessary. For more information 
call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C52361
Wanted!!! Individuals and student 
organizations to promote Spring Break 95. 
Earn substantial money and free trips. Call 
Inter-Campus programs 1-800-327-6013
Spring Break 95**
Americas #1 Spring Break.Company! 
Cancn, Bahamas, Daytona & Panama!
110% Lowest Pnce Guarantee! Urgamze 
15 fnerids and travel free! Earn highest 
commissions! (800) 32-TRAVEL
Independence Court of Oakland, an
assisted living residence, seeks part time 
waitstaff. Experience and professional 
manner required. Will train. Interested 
candidates should apply in person.
SERVICES
International Students: DV-1 
Greencard program by U.S. immigration. 
Greencards provide permanent resident 
status. Citizens of almost all countries are 
allowed. For info & forms: New Era 
Legal Services, 20231 Stagg St., Canoga 
Park, CA 91306, Tel: (818)-998-4425; 
(818) 772-7168,-Monday-Sunday 10a.m.- 
11p.m.
Flowers for birthdays, anniversaries, 
formals, platonic and more. Call Alexs 
Short-term (6-weeks) evening classes 
start monthly. For information, contact 
Carmen Sporio at 471-1011
TRAVEL
Travel free! Spring Break 95! 
Guaranteed lowest prices. Jamaica, 
Cancn, Bahamas, Florida. Book early <S 
save SSS! Organize group travel free! 1- 
800-426-7710
THE TARTAN
1 ."hi haw any questions. please call the Office of Admissions al \X-20N2 and ask for Trevor.268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Vi .r : :
memen love m
against iWetr ujill. Look at me, young meft. 
Ut me please you 1
To benefit our neighbors at The Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank, The Pittsburgh Symphony is offering a S1 ticket to the Friday Nov. 18th performance of 
Carmina Burana. Just bring a non-perishable food item to the Heinz Hall Box Office and receive your discounted ticket. Please dont wait. This offer is subject to 
availability of tickets. Student Kush tickets only $ 10 for Thursday Nov. 17th & Saturday Nov. 19th, available one hour prior to the performance with I.D.
SS ha PriTSHiRi ii dysie-Lyr

---------------------------------------------------

M,G MSAcSo v dSAoGinG aGtteo v lm EepGysGA lwwmR
Censorship results in protest outside Warner Hall
From RALLY, page 1 vaunted cutting edge, wind whipping view, not commonly understood, yet.
posed to, think about, and respond to all past them as they blaze into the future... Tuesday, November 8 was originally 
the input we encounter. We dont need blindfolded. set as the day to pull all the bboards, but
their protection. Local as well as na- Calvert was among the spectators in only three were pulled as a result of the
tional media covered the event. the rally and
Steven Calvert, the assistant vice thought it was 
president for Development and Alumni a great success 
Relations, said he has received seven for three reacomments from alumni so far. He said sons. First, he 
the alumni who took the time to write, said, I consider 
are passionately against any form of it a sign of real 
censorship over the Internet. He said health that a 
the responses suggested that the Uni- community can 
versity stand up to Pennsylvania state 
law, even if it meant a lawsuit, and one 
offered to contribute to a defense fund.
Calvert said they [the alumni who re
sponded] see a pattern in the CMU ad-WM
Jason Sfegendorf/Tartan Photographer 
On Wednesday afternoon, over 300 people attended the Freedom In Cyberspace 
rally (above). Engineering and Public Policy graduate student, Donna Riley, 
argued that censorship is patronizing to women (top right).
backlash and a 
resolution drawn 
up by Student Sen
ate. The pulled 
bboards were the 
ones with graphic 
images. The text 
. n , groups are an 
easier issue to de'///y;', cide on. Murphy 
said its clear that 
a large number are 
in no way in viola
tion of the law. 
For now the text 
groups will con
tinue to be acces
sible and be de
cided on finally by 
the committee set 
up by Student Senate. In the resolution 
drafted on November 7, Student Senate 
suggested that the University convene 
a standing committee under the Office 
of the President that is empowered to 
advise on online policy and implementa
tion issues. The resolution also states: 
This committees members must con
sist of students, faculty, staff, and exter
nal legal experts chosen by the student, 
faculty, and staff governance groups. It 
also reads, the standing committee will 
be empowered to decide what bboards 
must not be carried and present their 
recommendation to the University Presi
dent.
The committee will meet for the first 
time on Wednesday. Anger towards the 
proposal was echoed by faculty Senate
ministration not seeking community in- especially healthy when an alumni body 
put before decisions of this magnitude considers it part of their rights as memare made. One alumni, Lili Fox Velez, bers of the community to be active parwho received her Masters in 1988 from ticipants in such debates.
H&SS, asked, Just what form of Total Second, he noted that it was alumni of who voted unanimously to recommend 
Quality Management led to this little CMU that were able to contact Mike that the University re-install all of the 
public relations nightmare? Which of Godwin, andVicWalczak. Third, Calvert bboards, including the graphic ones that 
thecustomersthat CMU has been train- complimented the comments of Donna have already been eliminated.
Riley, even calling them courageous.
He said Donnas views that women do 
not need men to protect them from infor
mation on the Internet is an important
ing all of its staff to serve requested 
that the bulletin boards be altered in 
this fashion? I just have the vivid image 
of CMU students, all sitting on that
[Ed. Note, Emily Rosenthal, Max 
Chittister, and Bill Vandermark assisted 
with this article.]
SDC sponsors porno night
On Saturday, November 12, SDC 
sponsored the Porn til Dawn" film 
festival in Doherty Hall. This was a 
controversial event, especially con
sidering the current censorship situ
ation.
According to SDC member Steve 
Badeit, a junior Computer Engineer
ing student, SDC heard a motion 
earlier last week from Mike Schwern, 
a sophomore Mechanical Engineer
ing student, who proposed showing 
pornographic movies on campus and 
requested SDCfundlngforthe project 
The subject matter did not stop SDC 
from considering the motion. SDC is 
willing to entertain motions from any
one in the residence halls, Badeit 
said.
Schwern did not set out to create a 
huge event. Over the summer I saw 
The Italian Stallion with Syivester 
Stallone ... it was absolutely hilari
ous. Given the atmosphere on my 
floor, I was planning to show it [to 
them]. But this situation came up, 
and ... it sparked the idea of making 
something bigger, given the current 
atmosphere.
Because of the nature of the mate
rial, there has been a lot of debate on 
campus, both over the bboards and 
in the SDC general meeting. Schwern 
said he has been receiving 30 mes
sages a day dealing with the films. In 
SDC, there was a heated debate 
before finally passing the motion. It 
was a hard decision, said Badeit. It 
was obviously controversial. There 
was a fraction of SDC which objected 
to the films on moral ground, but 
[the] common feeling in SDC is that 
the representative body is not re
sponsible for makingmoral decisions 
forthe people it represents, accord
ing to Badeit. However, SDC is not 
... trying to advocate pornography.
Schwern realizes that there will be 
political arguments connected with 
the event, such as whether pornogra
phy should be funded by SDC, or 
whether the university should allow 
this to happen at all. Schwern said, 
The only political motivation was ... 
to show it can be done. I just wanted 
to show this ... to be entertaining. 
Taken out of context, this is just 
another form of entertainment."
He claims that other universities 
have this sort of showing as a matter 
of course. This campus is very re
pressed, and it would be nice to let 
off some steam.".
Badeit did not see any problems 
legally with the movies, since there is 
nothing in the Student Handbook 
prohibiting public showing of pornog
raphy. Also, the material itself will 
not contain anything illegal. CMU IDs 
were : checked at the door, and no
body under 18 was admitted. It is 
completely legal... from the point of 
view of content," Badeit said.
The only problems he ran into 
were finding a room with video capa
bilities. Actually, the students have 
been trying to stop me." Because of 
the strong student opposition, it is 
unlikely that pornographic film show
ings will become a frequent CMU 
event. Schwern said Unless people 
calm down ... I cant see asking SDC 
to do this monthly."
 Max Chittister
Tartan Staffwrlter
Tuesday
Four-Day Outlook
Wednesday Thursday Friday
It will be mostly cloudy Fair with the high in the The weather will be It will be warmer and
with showers and a 40s and the low mostly sunny with the partly sunny with a
chance of thunderstorms somewhere in the low to high in the low 50s and chance of afternoon
likely. mid 30s. the low in the 30s. showers.
aI The Leadership Semester
OtO at
Wl Weils CollegeWELIS Spring and Fall 1995
?LOwmm.WELLS
cam undergraduate academic credits and experience in a learning environment 
that promotes womens leadership. Intern at a national center for womens 
leadership education.
The Women's Leadership Institute
To learn more about the Leadership Semester at the Womens Leadership 
Institue of Wells College, write to us at The Womens Leadership Institue, 
Wells College, Aurora, NY 13026 or if you prefer, call (315) 364-3421.
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
Division of International Programs Abroad 
119 Euclid Avenue 
Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472
SYRACUSE ABROAD 
Something to write home about!
 Programs In Australia, Belgium, England, France, 
Germany, Israel, Italy, Spain, and Zimbabwe
 Prior foreign language not always necessary 
SU credit
 Field trips/traveling seminars
 Internships
 Study for a semester, a year, or a summer
 Home stays or limited apartment placements
682 - 7272 (PAPA)
4643 Baum Boulevard
Near North Craig Street
Delivers to CMU 
On and Off Campus ! 
Open Everyday 
11 am to 2 am
r-~i
Large Pizza 
Only
$6.49+TAX
Add pepperoni 
(or any topping of your choice) for only 500
I__________________________________________1
FREE
Breadsticks & 
Large 2 
Toppings
$7.97+TAX
L.. J

---------------------------------------------------

International Festival 1994 
Experience Europe
Your feedback regarding the annual International Festival is important for helping us plan 
next years program. Please take a few minutes to complete the evaluation and return it by 
campus mail to:
Anne Witchner
Director of Student Activities
Student Center 211
by Monday, November 21. Thank you for your response.
1. Please circle whether you are a/an: Undergraduate Student Graduate Student
Faculty Member Staff Other (please specify)____________________________
5. Using the following scale, please rate the events listed below:
1 Poor 2 Below Average 3 Average 4 Good 5 Excellent D/A Did not Attend
2. How did you learn about the International Festival? (Check all that apply) 
_ Posters
___Schedules
___Word of mouth
___The Tartan
___T-Shirts and other promotion
___Other (please specify)__________________________________
__Did not know about the Festival
3. If you were aware of the Festival, but did not attend any of the events, please indicate why.
Keynote Lectures 
Andreas van Agt 
Andrei Codrescu 
Anna Rosmus 
Arthur Frommer
Performances
John Wesley Harding 
Drama Folk Tales 
Dancers Symposium 
Alpen Glow 
Sviraj
CMU Philharmonic
Special Events 
Casino Night 
Puppet Show 
Costume Show 
Free International 
Phone Calls 
Cooking Paella 
Ballroom Dance 
Lessons 
Films
Euro Trivia Bowl 
Personal Journeys 
Resource Room
Recreation
Soccer Tournament 
Tennis Tournament
Tours
Holocaust Museum 
Tour 
International Class 
Rooms Tours
Fairs
Education/Study 
Abroad Fair 
Food and Vendor 
Fair
Overall Program
 Selection of ____
Programs
Publicity ____
Timing of Events ____
Merger of Festival ____
with Family Weekend 
Merger of Festival ____
with Education Awards
6. Please include any additional comments.
4. If you did participate in the Festival, how many events did you attend? (check one) 
1-2____________ 3-4_____________ 5-6_________ more than 6_________
Thank You
On the surface of a leaf, an intricate network of veins is the medium for 
photosynthesis. At Bellcore, a network of talented people is the medium we use 
to define and tackle telecommunications challenges for some of the biggest names in 
American and international business.
ey epsmycop hyfbnamutby 
douPbnB hg kggoyutmr .b eyA 
kystnbyaoyux
We offer our clients an unprecedented level of telecommunications expertise, 
coupled with unparalleled resources for providing totally integrated customer 
solutions. And our demonstrated proficiency in Information Services, Telephony, 
Wireless, and Business and Mass Market Broadband makes us uniquely equipped to 
address the telecommunications challenges of the future  head-on.
If youre an ambitious graduate, we can offer you some equally impressive 
advantages. Join us in helping our clients define their route in the rapidly expanding 
telecommunications network, and reach your own high level of personal and 
professional reward.
Currently, we have openings at our New Jersey locations for individuals with a 
BS/MS in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, and/or Systems Engineering 
and for MS/PhDs in Computer Science, Statistics, Operations Research, Metallurgy, 
Behavioral Science and/or Material Science.
For consideration, stop by our Placement Office to schedule an appointment or 
forward your resume, in strictest confidence, to: Manager, Corporate Employment, 
Bellcore, Dept. EH/1115/94, 6 Corporate Place, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854-
We are an equal opportunity employer m/f/d/v.
Bellcore
Bell Communications Research
Where innovation is second nature.

---------------------------------------------------

M,G MSAcSo v dSAoGinG aGtteo v lm EepGysGA lwwmb
Carnegie Mellon in BriefEntropy installs camera
No one injured in Crew accident
The Carnegie Mellon Crew team en
countered some difficulty on their way 
to Washington D.C. for a competition.
According to Howard Meisner, a mem
ber of the crew team, there were two 
incidents on the trip. The first occurred 
when coach Liz Winter pulled into a 
parking lot and went to get a drink. 
When she returned, someone had sideswiped the trailer that held the Crew 
teams boats. The bow of one of the boats 
was damaged, while a massive hole was 
ripped in the other, both boats were 
repaired in time for the competition. On
50 YEARS AGO  The Tartan re
ported Dr. Otto Stem, Research Profes
sor in the Physics Department of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, has 
been awarded the delayed Nobel Prize 
for Physics for 1943.
25 YEARS AGO  At the last meet
ing of the old Senate, November 4, a 
motion was passed (20-0-1) statingthat 
Whereas any participation in a disci
plinary process by persons not subject
13/2 THEFT OF SERVICES, 1:49 
pm. A white male was attempting to 
purchase some items at the co-op store 
with someone elses CMU ID card. When 
questioned about the card, the actor ran 
outside the store and entered a car. The 
actor and vehicle had left the area by the 
time the officers arrived.
11/3 SAFETY OBSERVATION,
12:59 am. While on patrol of the Hill
the same trip, one of the cars carrying 
team members blew a tire. The car 
flipped several times, the car crossed 
the median and landed on the other side 
of the road. Fortunately, there were no 
serious injuries, just minor scrapes and 
bruises. The team went on to compete in 
their race in Washington, D.C.
CMU ranks high at college bowl
The Iron City Inquisition College Bowl 
Tournament was held last Saturday, 
November 5, at the University of Pitts
burgh.
Carnegie Mellon sent three teams:
CMU Almanac
themselves to the same disciplinary pro
cess violates the principles of a demo
cratic justice: We the Student Govern
ment of CMU reassert our conviction 
that a university code of discipline 
equally applicable to students, faculty, 
and administrators is the only equitable 
form of campus discipline, according to 
The Tartan.
10 YEARS AGO  The Tartan re
ported, CMU President Richard Cyert
The Boys in Lederhosen, David Tay
lor, Dan Giammar, Adam Tableman and 
Jeremy Horwitz; the Smashing 
Mellons, Dan Wang, Benjamin Wang, 
Mike Montemerlo, SravanNarayan and 
Jason Jones; and The Iconoclasts, Tom 
Haddad, Bill Vandermark, Ian 
Schreiber, Matt R. Zofchak, and Steven 
Poindexter III.
The top team for CMU was The Boys 
in Lederhosen which finished fourth in 
the tournament and qualified for the 
tournament playoffs with a 7-3 record. 
They were eliminated by Western Michi
gan in the semi-finals.
Penn State Team A finished first over
all and second place went toWestem 
Michigan.
has stepped down from the board which 
will hear Zeta Beta Taus appeal of the 
administrative decision to dissolve the 
fraternity.
5 YEARS AGO  Political protest 
took the form of symbolic art Thursday 
when third-year art student Jessica 
Caplans planned flag-burning ceremony 
on the Cut was thwarted by Carnegie 
Mellon Police before any fires could be 
set, reported The Tartan.
From ENTROPY, page 1
been used to identify individuals in other 
stores on campus. The amount of theft 
without any security devices such as 
mirrors or cameras could not be deter
mined, since inventory is only performed 
once a year.
Employees of Entropy both know that 
theft is a problem, and that it is very 
easy to steal. [Stealing] is a big prob
lem, said Ackley Padila, an employee at 
Entropy.
He thought the camera was a good 
idea, for it would cause some individuals 
to be more wary of theft, and also would 
provide another eye. People wont be
able to hide and steal stuff, he said.
Although there is some complaint from 
students about the high prices in En
tropy, retail services does not make 
money from Entropy, but attempts to 
break even, and has been doing so for the 
past few years.
According to Stacer, there are many 
other costs which are not always consid
ered, such as personnel, training, Cam
pus Xpress, bags, and utilities that must 
be accounted for.
[Ed. note, Tartan News Editor Ed
ward Hayes, helped contribute to this 
article.]
Correction
In last weeks edition of DH 2210 and the Calendar section, it was stated 
that the movie Forrest Gump would play this past weekend. This was 
inaccurate; the movie that was presented was It Could Happen to You.
In last weeks issuej the photos of CMU goalie Dan Warren on pages 9 and11 were reversed, so the captions are incorrect.
The photo of the shootout is on page 11, and the photo of the leaping save 
is on page 9.
The Tartan apologizes for the errors.
The Tartan corrects ,ill known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please 
contact the Editor-in-Chief Andrew Sproule at x8-2l 1, or write him in, care of 
The Tartan.
Crime and Incident Report
Dorm area, a guard noticed the mag
netic fire door near B-221 Hammerschlag 
House still malfunctioning. When the 
magnet is on and the door is secured, the 
alarm will constantly sound. Residents 
prop open the door to silence the alarm. 
This causes a security breach.
11/5 AUTO ACCIDENT, 12:32 pm. 
While Vehicle #2 was stopped behind 
Vehicle #1 on the Bureau of Mines road,
Vehicle #1 suddenly backed up and 
struck Vehicle #2. At the time of the 
accident, both vehicles were stopped on 
the Bureau of Mines road facing north 
and waiting to turn onto Forbes Avenue. 
Vehicle #2 had stopped approximately 
eight yards behind Vehicle #1, which 
was at the intersection.
Suddenly the operator of Vehicle #1 
backed up at approximately 15 mph and 
struck Vehicle #2.
The Tartan prints the weekly Crime 
and Incident report under the following 
guidelines:
Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior to 
release.
 Only three people on The Tartan staff 
see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief, the 
News Editor, and the staffwriter typing 
the report.
All personal names of complainants, 
victims, suspects, and fraternity names 
are omitted from the printed report. Eth
nic descriptions and other personal de
tails are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
Not every incident that occurs on cam
pus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
MAX CHITTISTER
WANTED: Spring 95 
Conerts Chair
DE LA SOUL 
LIVE
PUNCHBUGGY
JOHN WESLEY HARDING
JOHN ZORN
JIMMY CLIFF
BELLY
HOODOO GURUS 
THE RAMONES 
EMF
LADYSMITH BLACK MAMBAZO 
THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS
Funded by your student activities fee
The Activities Board 
is looking for a 
Spring 95 Concerts 
Chairperson. If 
youve ever been 
interested in booking 
bands to appear on 
campus, this is your 
chance! Applications 
are available from 
the Information Desk 
in the Student Center. 
The deadline for 
applications is 
December 1, 1994.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Soccer teams deserve 
kudos, congratulations
Letters to the Editor
Carnegie Mellon is not a school 
noted for its athletic prowess, 
but this fall, two teams have 
achieved success previously 
unknownineitherprogram. The 
mens soccer team participated 
in the NCAA playoffs for the 
first time ever two weekends 
ago, pushing Muhlenberg Col
lege, the top seed in its region, 
to the brink of elimination, be
fore losing in a shootout. The 
womens soccer team also had 
the best season of its four-year 
history, coming within a goal of 
the University Athletic Asso
ciation title.
Excellence is nothing new for 
the mens soccer team. Veteran 
head coach Nick Gaudioso is a 
proven winner, but his team has 
never been able to take the final 
Step until this season.
This years squad had a lot of 
seniors, with four-year starters 
and experienced players. Alex 
Amezquita, Mike Brazinski, Pat 
Lucignani, and Vince Russell 
are all mainstays of the team 
who will not return next season. 
One of the biggest names on the 
team was senior goalie Dan 
Warren, who backed up David 
Shapiro for three years and 
made the most of the starting 
role he finally claimed.
The womens team does not 
have the long tradition of suc
cess the mens team has, but it 
is rapidly working towards mak
ing a big name of its own. Head
Newspapers in general are 
relatively predictabletheres 
the news section, the sports sec
tion, and the comics, usually 
along with living and entertain
ment sections. Often, there is 
very little opportunity to re
spond to what we see in print. 
At The Tartan, we find a lot of 
value in the exchange and in the 
frequent clash of ideas. The Fo
rum pages are our way of fosteringfree exchange of ideas, so we 
try to provide a spectrum of opin
ions to allow you, our readers, to 
be the judges. To that end, youll 
find the following types of pieces 
in this section:
 Editorials always appear in 
the leftmost columns of the first 
Forum page. They are unsigned 
because they represent a con
sensus opinion of The Tartans 
Editorial Board.
While we believe our editori
als offer sensible, accurate com
mentary, please feel free to dis
agree with uswe dont have a 
monopoly on the truth. As a 
matter of fact, we would love to 
know what you think of what 
we think. An excellent means to 
do this is to write a letter to the 
editor.
 Letters to the Editor may be 
submitted by anybody, although 
when space gets tight we will 
favor letters from members of 
the University community. As 
readers, you should realize that 
opinions represented in a letter 
are those of the author and not 
of The Tartan. All letters are 
subject to editing for size  let
ters cant be more than 500 
words  and grammar. But we
coach Julie Shackford has 
turned the program from a UAA 
doormat to a UAA contender in 
three short seasons. In four 
years as a varsity coach at CMU, 
Shackford has only one losing 
season  her first in the UAA. 
In each of the past two years, 
the team has won 13 games, 
which is a school record. And 
the team has improved steadily.
This season they again 
reached the 13 win total, and 
went 4-1-1 in the UAA. The 
team lost a crucial game against 
the University of Chicago on the 
last day of the season, 21, on a 
disputed penalty kick, when a 
victory would have meant the 
title.
But there is definitely hope for 
the team for the future. There 
are only two seniors on the young 
team, co-captain Julie Paul and 
Christina Isaly. Shackford has 
proved an excellent recruiter, 
and her last two recruiting 
classes have been great. A huge 
sophomore class and a highlytouted freshman class will be 
back next year to try to take the 
next step, as will co-captain 
Maria Casella and leading 
scorer Nicole Poisson  a con
tender for MVP honors this sea
son.
The Tartan extends our con
gratulations to both teams for 
fine 1994 seasons and we hope 
both squads will get some of the 
recognition they deserve.
never edit a letter for content.
Of course, we reserve the right 
to reject letters we feel are libel
ous, obscene, or incoherent. But 
well be glad to discuss any let
ter with the author and see if we 
can reach a compromise. How
ever, in order to have such a 
discussion, we need to know who 
you are. We are willing to with
hold the authors name from a 
letter to the editor, but our edi
tor-in-chief does need to know 
who wrote it. Please, dont send 
us anonymous letters  it just 
frustrates us because we have 
no way to contact you, and it 
annoys you because your letter 
doesnt get published.
 Persons Opinion is just that 
 the opinions of randomly 
polled persons, usually students 
at CMU, on a different question 
or concern each week. The people 
in Persons Opinion have no af
filiation with The Tartan.
 Columns are regularly ap
pearing opinion pieces pre
sented by individuals who are 
usually members of the CMU 
community. Unsolicited col
umns generally cannot be used, 
though if you feel the desire to 
contribute regularly, contact the 
Forum editor. Opinions in these 
columns are those of the colum
nist and not of The Tartan. 
Again, feel free to disagree with 
them and to let them know, 
through a Letter to the Editor.
That about sums up the Fo
rum section. We hope it makes 
for some thought-provoking 
reading, and were always open 
to suggestions for ways to im
prove it.
Censorship sets poor example
Editor:
CMUs decision to 
censor certain newsgroups shows pa- Letter to
thetic,irresponsible, 
spineless capitula^ the Edlt0r 
tion to the growing tide of repression 
sweeping our state and country. The 
administration ought to be ashamed!
Have we no commitment to defending 
the freedoms that this country was 
founded on? Are we to give up our Con
stitutional right to free speech without 
even a fight? What kind of example are 
we setting for our students, choosing to 
sacrifice liberty rather than face a po
tential battle?
Im reminded of MITs lone struggle 
against the Department of Justices fi
nancial aid antitrust suit. MIT could 
have just walked away and covered its 
rear, but instead it fought for the stu
dents and won. MIT does not censor 
newsgroups, either. But (to paraphrase 
Lloyd Bentsen), I guess CMU is no MIT.
I am currently counseling high school 
students who want to study science and 
engineering in college; you can guess 
where Ill be advising them to go.
David E. Brahm
Postdoc, Department of PhysicsBboard policy adheres to law
Editor:
What would hap
pen if society were 
to only follow the 
subset of laws that 
it felt was fair? What 
would happen if institutions had the 
ability to choose which laws are in their 
best interest and only obey those? Would 
it be okay for an institution to deny 
minorities equal opportunities because 
they feel anti-discrimination laws are 
unjust? Would it be all right for a factory 
to pollute the environment because it is 
in its best interest? Is it okay for an 
angry mob to assault a freed criminal
because they are unhappy with his ac
quittal?
Obviously the answer to these ques
tions is in the negative; it surprises me, 
then, how people would want CMU to 
choose to break the law when it comes to 
pornography.
To argue that CMU should disobey 
Pennsylvania law, in the name of the 
First Amendment, is ludicrous. Univer
sities do not have the power to decide 
which laws to follow and which ones to 
break. A university is an institution of 
higher learning; it is not a legislative 
body. An institution that enj oys the right 
of being able to exist in society must also 
fulfill its responsibilities to the commu
nity. The foremost of these responsibili
ties is upholding the law.
This is not to say that censorship is 
acceptable. However, to censure CMU 
for obeying a decision by the Pennsylva
nia State legislature is akin to killing 
the harbinger of bad news. It is true that 
this law is a violation of our First Amend
ment right. However, disobedience as 
an agent of change can only be used in 
extreme cases and only after all other 
attempts have been exhausted. The 
American legislative system is one that 
is highly sensitive to dissatisfaction. One 
only needs to look at the recent election 
results for a proof of this. The method to 
change a bad law lies in the people you 
elect to office; it lies in protests and 
politics; it lies in petitions and letter 
writing campaigns. It does not He in 
defiance and certainly not in criticizing 
law-abiding institutions.
The real problem is not CMU obeying 
the law, it is the continual intervention 
of government into our private lives. 
Members of the CMU community who 
are sincerely upset with the bboard ban 
should not be attacking CMU but rather 
the authors and supporters of the law. If 
the CMU community is genuinely inter
ested in protecting the fundamental 
rights of our country, they should not be 
protesting the people in Warner Hall 
but rather the people in the State Capi
tol and their elected representatives in 
the nations capital. Only then will any
thing be accomplished.
Amit Shah 
Junior, IS
Vegetarian diet solves problems
Editor:
I used to have a 
really bad habit that 
I did not know about.
Most of us knew 
somebody with heart 
disease or cancer  the leading two 
causes of death and suffering in the US. 
In fact, the Surgeon General has esti
mated that 68 percent of all US diseases 
are diet-related. Yet relatively few people 
are aware that a total vegetarian diet is 
the solution to our societys health woes.
These days, livestock are loaded with 
antibiotics and stuffed with pesticidecontaminated food by the corporations 
that raise them in confinement (to maxi
mize their profit). According to the 
USDA, the livestock industry uses 70 
percent of US grain, more than half of 
the water consumed, and nearly half of 
the territory of the continental US for 
feed crops and pasture! And raising live
stock is a primary cause of desertifica
tion, water pollution, global warming, 
loss of biodiversity, soil erosion, and 
world hunger. Worldwatch Institute pre
dicts that unless dramatic changes oc
cur, the world will soon suffer severe 
food shortages.
Carnegie Mellon Vegetarians is in
forming our community of these prob
lems since we  the future profession
als of our society  can resolve them. 
Merely eating meat fewer times a week 
is a substantial contribution towards 
improving your health and our environ
ment. The Health Services nutritionist 
can respond to any concerns you have 
over the diet.
On Wednesday at 9 pm in DH 2210, we 
will show the Diet for a New America 
video. Please come and see for yourself 
the colossal damage caused by our 
societys meat habit. George Bernard 
Shaw said, Custom will reconcile people 
to any atrocity. I believe that ignorance 
is the only evil, and that we all have a 
responsibility to decrease it whenever 
we can.
Daniel Richards 
Senior, Math/CSLets stop the war on drugs
Lets set the time machine for the 1920s. Back then, the 
people of this country decided, in a fit of being uptight, to 
make the sale of alcohol illegal. They passed an amendment 
to the constitution in 1920 (the 18th) which listed that 
alcohol couldnt be imported, exported, or consumed. What 
happened? We got the Roaring Twenties  widespread noncompliance with the law and the development of organized 
crime. Crime became rampant and the amendment was 
eventually repealed in 1933 after we saw that it couldnt be 
enforced and offered no benefits.
The amendment was passed in the first place at the behest 
of religious folks, businessmen (who didnt like worker 
absenteeism), and wives (who didnt want their husbands 
wasting their money at saloons). People argued about the 
harmful effects of alcohol and the costs it weighed upon 
society. They talked of the number of alcoholics and of the 
lives ruined. They pointed to alcohol like it was a devil
capable of ruining mens souls.
Does anyone see the similarity of this to the War on Drugs?
I should rephrase this  its a war on some drugs. We still can 
get caffeine, alcohol, and nicotine (though people are dying to 
place that last one on the chopping block). People just happen 
to be uppity about certain other chemical combinations. t 
Let me set the record straight: I have never used an illicit 
drug, nor do I have any interest in doing so. I drink my alcohol 
and smoke a stogie once in a while. I dont even bother with 
caffeine. I made this choice a long time ago and Im satisfied 
with it. I just dont believe that my choice is necessarily right 
for everyone. Anyway, how could I be a straight-laced conser
vative if I did drugs?
Druguse is a victimless crime; self-inflicted crimes generally 
are. How would making them legal make this worse? People 
already ruin their lives on drugs; the legality is irrelevant. 
Actually, the legality is important in at least a few ways. The 
illicit nature of the act increases its allure with the young, and 
the legal repercussions of admitting to usage impair ones ( 
willingness to come forward for treatment.
Drug use is widespread. The only part of the anti-drug 
campaign which has made any inroads is education. I would - 
Please see LEGALIZATION, page 8
Welcome to Forum, 
your place for opinions
87 Oi
Letter to 
the Editor
on
Letter to 
the Editor

---------------------------------------------------

M,G MSAcSo v dSAoGinG aGtteo v lm EepGysGA lwwmf
Lift the ban on censored bboards
Declan McCullagh
Last Tuesday, Carnegie Mellon Univer
sity removed 14 electronic bboards that sup
posedly carried graphic sexual images. It 
did so after being notified that a research 
study to be released in early December had 
suggested that the school could encounter 
jegal trouble if it continued to provide access 
to them. The administration now claims 
that it is legally required to continue to 
censor sexually explicit bboards. This claim 
is misguided.
We no longer provide access to the 
alt.binaries groups, the three groups which 
primarily graphic sexual images. There 
is widespread, though not universal, agree
ment that these bboards contain images 
which are clearly obscene, says Erwin 
Steinberg, vice-provost for education.
However, the bboards that have been reinclude text-only discussion groups,
groups devoted to cartoons, and groups 
that carried pictures from the Japanese 
art of anime. Until they were removed, 
some of the bboards contained images that 
would have been more appropriate in a 
Walt Disney movie than in a pom movie 
theater.
The administrations decision  made 
by Computing Services Vice President Bill 
Arms  to censor those bboards without
back.
We are establishing an advisory com
mittee of students, faculty, and staff to 
begin a review of these bboards immedi
ately and to recommend to the provost and 
president which, if any, of these bboards 
might violate relevant obscenity standards 
and thereby no longer be deemed worthy 
for inclusion within the university-spon
sored system, says Steinberg.
Some of the bboards contained images that 
would have been more appropriate in a Walt 
Disney movie than in a porn movie theater.
investigating their contents is foolhardy. 
Arms even admits he only looked at a 
handful of bboards before deciding to re
move them.
Now a committee composed of the heads 
of Student Government, Faculty Senate, 
and Staff Council and chaired by Steinberg 
will investigate which bboards should be 
removed and which should be brought
But until the committee releases its re
port  which could take weeks or months 
 all of the bboards should remain. The 
administration claims that for legal rea
sons the bboards must stay off our com
puter systems, but thats not true.
Last Thursday the American Civil Lib
erties Union sent a memorandum to Fac
ulty Senate and Student Government say
ing that the administrations stand is 
a red herring and that the University 
cannot credibly argue that it liable to 
criminal prosecution for maintaining 
sexually explicit material on comput
ers. (The document is available on
line in /afs/andrew/usrO/sbp/Censorship.)
The eight-page legal brief details 
exactly why the administrations posi
tion is flawed. In short, it says the 
University is, in effect, functioning as 
an electronic librarian and is exempt 
from the Pennsylvania obscenity law.
The brief also notes that the Univer
sity cannot credibly argue that it is 
liable to criminal prosecution for al
lowing minors to read sexually ex
plicit material because the school 
could not be expected to monitor con
tent on the thousands of Internetwide bboards.
But the administration has ignored 
the advice of the ACLU lawyers who 
specialize in on-line issues, and has 
insisted the committee be the group 
Please see CENSORSHIP, page 8
Ignorance abounds on ethnic issues
Mahua Dutta
Every night around seven, I sit 
down to eat my dinner and watch 
reruns of The Simpsons. Usually 
my little version of dinner the
atre goes well. But lately, it hasnt 
been too pleasing. Every time the 
cartoon character of Apu, the 7- 
Eleven owner, comes on, I be
come incredibly annoyed. As a 
person of Indian heritage, I find 
the character to be disturbing. I 
realize that Apu is just a cartoon 
on television, and I realize that 
The Simpsons makes fun of ev
eryone and everything. However, 
I also know that this type of mis
representation of Indians per
petuates the misconceptions that 
many non-Indians hold.
The Simpsons is not alone in 
promoting misconceptions. Other 
television programs have also 
misrepresented Indians. 'For ex
ample, David Letterman had his 
pair of Bangladeshi men to poke 
fun at on his show. (Bangladesh 
was part of India [East Bengali 
until the British used religion to 
divide the country. The only cul
tural difference between 
Bangladesh and West Bengal 
[still a part of India] is that the 
majority of the people in 
Bangladesh are Muslim.)
I once spoke with a friend of 
mine about this issue. He argued, 
But theyre just showing the typi
cal Indian. I explained to him 
that India has a multi-cultural 
society. Each region of India is 
distinct from the others. There is 
no such thing as a typical Indian. 
He then pointed out that, the 
shows arent responsible for the 
misconceptions. This is true. 
However, they are to blame for 
promoting the misconceptions. 
His final argument was that the 
misconceptions dont pose any 
problems.
He was dead wrong. The mis
conceptions cause a lot of prob
lems. Spend a week in my shoes,
and youll know what I mean. 
Throughout most of my life, I 
have been asked countless stupid 
questions, and have had to deal 
with the most ridiculous assump
tions.
Does your dad wear a turban1? I 
have found that the people who 
ask me this gem have watched 
Annie one too many times. Or 
they flipped through a National
and ask.
Does your mom wear a dot on 
her head? A dot on her head. It 
takes a true idiot to word that 
questionjust so. The correct terms 
for the dot, according to my 
mother, are tip or bindi. Some
times, when shes dressed up in a 
sari, she wears one. (She doesn't 
wear a sari all that often. She 
usually only wears them on forNo, my father has never worn a 
turban in his life.
Geographic back in second grade 
and thus think that their ques
tion is intellectual. No, my father 
has never worn a turban in his 
life. The people who wear tur
bans are Sikhs. They wear tur
bans because they dont cut their 
hair for spiritual reasons. (Get it? 
The turban keeps the hair out of 
their face.) I dont know much 
else about it. Im not Sikh. If you 
have any questions, Im sure you 
could find someone who is Sikh
mal occasions.) Im not certain of 
the meaning of wearing a tip or 
how the practice began. I do know 
that now its basically just a fash
ion accessory. Some of you may 
think thats weird. But then, some 
of you thought nose rings were 
weird a few years ago.
The most asinine question Ive 
ever been asked was from a guy I 
knew in high school: Do you wor
ship cows? I replied, Yeah. Want 
to come by after school and see
the shrine Ive got? I have this 
really cool paper mch of Elsie. 
He nodded, mumbled something, 
and then walked away with a 
puzzled look on his face. The cul
turally aware one didnt under
stand my sarcasm.
Im not the only one who has to 
deal with this garbage. Keya 
Ganguly, a professor at CMU, 
also deals with it. Sometimes 
when people realize that shes 
Indian they say, Oh, youre In
dian? I love Indian food! Keya 
notes that the opposite would 
never be true. An Indian (or 
whoever) would hardly be likely 
to go up to an American and start 
an exchange with a comment like 
Oh, youre American? I love 
American movies. She adds, 
Theres nothing wrong with try
ing to establish some familiar 
channel of communication, its 
just that when such lines are 
opening conversational gambits, 
they become ludicrous.
Sometimes the situation goes 
beyond ludicrous. Sometimes its 
Please see AWARENESS, page 8
Move CFAs project deadlines to finals week
The Editors Notebook
Editors Notebook presents the individual 
opinion of the author only, not necessarily 
the opinions of The Tartan or of the Editorial 
Board.
I dont know what to do! I have three 
papers and an exam this week.
I pulled an all-nighter to study for my 
econ exam today, and now I have to finish a 
paper due by five. And then Im going to have 
to pull another all-nighter to finish my pro
gram.
Thats nothing. I have a book to make, a 
calendar to design, a research paper, a group 
presentation, a portfolio project, a couple
posters to make, and a photography pre
sentation.
Oh, youve got it easy. That all sounds 
like fun! You CFAers are so lucky.
Most people think CFAis a breeze. Maybe 
it is, and maybe it isnt. I like CFA a lot, but 
its the most work  and the most chal
lenging work  Ive ever faced. The diffi
culty of the work is not whats at issue 
here, though; its th time pressures.
Almost everybody finds themselves stay
ing up later than expected to finish that 
last-minute homework during the semes
ter. Final exams are the one time the 
campus breathes a tiny sigh of relief; stress 
may increase, but everyone feels relieved 
because there are no classes. The normal 
time pressures completely change  ex
cept for CFAers.
Right now, members of CFA are heading 
into their finals. Theres a rule that final 
projects cannot be carried into the final
exam period. All projects and papers are 
due by the last day of classes, so we dont 
get a break to work on our finals without 
going to class.
Luckily, some professors realize that 
this is irrational, so some of them extend 
project deadlines until the first week of 
finals. But students who are not so lucky 
are stressed beyond comprehension. Their 
professors wonder why students are skip
ping class, when skipping classes and pull
ing all-nighters (and then sleepingthrough 
class) are the only ways to free up time to 
finish our final projects.
The rationale behind this irrational fi
nal project deadline is to allow time to 
study for final exams during the study 
period without the distraction that a project 
may create.
Let me simplify: the university thinks 
exams are more important, difficult, and 
time consuming than projects. The one
thing that is often overlooked is the 
time allowance needed for project cri
tiques. So if a project is supposed to be 
finished by the last day of classes, and 
the last week of class is needed to do 
critiques, then all final projects have to 
be finished in two to three weeks, in
stead of the average four.
I dont want to turn into another 
whining college student, because thats 
the last thing this campus needs. But, 
I would like to see more consideration 
for students of CFA. Our projects should 
be due on the same type of timeline as 
final exams. If we can handle finishing 
our final projects while simultaneously 
attending class, then we can figure out 
a way to study for our final exams and 
complete our projects. This would be 
more of a relief than a hindrance or 
distraction.
 Kathy Wright
Many at CMU complain 
that the administration 
doesnt care about students. 
We asked: How much do 
you think CMUs admin
istration is a part of your life?
Richard LaBarca
Freshman
CS
People in Warner arent in
volved, but the teachers who 
actually talk to the students 
are.
Connie Deighan 
Freshman 
H&SS General
The administration doesnt 
do much for my life at all.
Karen Grunberg
Junior
IDS
The administration is a big 
part of my life. I work for Stu
dent Activities and Residence 
Life.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Erich Trowbridge
Junior
ChemE
Zilch. At UVA they had des
sert at the presidents house, 
but [here] I dont even know 
who the president is.
THE TARTAN
Camegle Mellons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief....Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed. .Samuel Greenfield
Business Manager........Amit Kar
News Ed.................Edward Hayes
Forum Editor..............Abby Schlff
Sports Editor............Eric Strauss
Features Editor........Eric Salzman
Diversions Editor.... Kathy Wright
Calendar Ed.......Jonmichael Moy
Dossier Literary Ed. Lauren Heinz 
Dossier Dsgn. Ed.Brockett Horne
Art Co-Editors............Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr.....Katie Swango
Personnel Mgr......Angela Molloy
Copy Mgr............Richard Smolen
Systems Mgr......Chad McDaniel
Asst. Forum Ed.........Kris Hinrlchs
Asst. Sports Ed. Matthew Solitro
Asst. Features Ed.........Allie King
Asst. Div. Ed. ...Paul Tabachneck
Asst. Prod. Mgr........Derek Wahila
Darkroom Mgr.....Evan Shechter
Photo Staff Manager. David Perry
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, Ken Kraemer, Declan 
McCullagh, Andrew McDermott
Staffwrlters 
Jason Andracki, John Biggs, Max 
Chlttister, Carey Clevenger, 
Mahua Dutta, Christina Farrell, 
Shannon Gibney, Dan Goldwasser, 
Anuj Gupta, Tom Harper, Jason 
Heinleln, Vladimir Labeikovsky, 
Deena Newsom, Ronak Singhal, 
Jon Slenk, James Stepanek, 
Bethany Sutton, Bill Vandermark, 
Sharmlla Venkatasubbeen, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Susan Watson, 
John Weber, Heather Zlndel
Art
Justin Carroll, Gabrlen Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Robert Brunskill, 
Nick Casclato Jr., Matt Goldberg, 
Mark Kantrowitz, Christopher 
Nelson, Jackson Tam, David White
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Tushar Dubey, Rob 
Earhart, Bassem El-Dasher, An
drew Flores, Janet Lee, Pat 
Prasangsit, Jason Siegendorf, 
Jackson Tam, Marla Valenti, Cheryl 
Vlaud, Natalie Wochele
Darkroom 
Rachel Noack, Margaret Stallings
Production 
Roula Abdel-Baki, Heather 
Alexander, Kathy Liu, Jason Ma, 
Carrie McDonough, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Eric Pettus
Copy
Lee Abernathy, Darren Chirapetta, 
Madhav Ghanta, D. Renee 
Hairston, Lori Jurgovsky, Winter 
Mason, Diane Ohm, Ed Slavishak, 
Roger Wang
Business 
Christa Bower, Chlntan Shah
Junior Staff 
Michael Ayoob, David Brannlng, 
Steven Burns, Seth A. Covitz, 
Manoo Halatl, Adam Klivans, Ron 
Kurti, Rolf Nelli, David Osorio, 
Shantanu Rana, Emily Rosenthal, 
Caleb Sldel, Daniella Topol,Daniel 
Yanger
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspa
per published by students during the fall and 
spring semesters, at no cost to members of 
the University community. It is printed by West
ern Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions 
are available for the semester or academic 
year. The editorials appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section are the official opinion of 
The Tartan editorial board. Columns and politi
cal cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone num
ber for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that letters 
be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright  1994 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

CM,G MSAcSo r dSAoGinG aGtteo r lm EepGysGA lwwm
Bboard censorship 
puts CMU to shame
CENSORSHIP, from page 7
who decides the fate of the 
bboards.
The administration has also 
used the media to cloud the 
issue in shades of murky sexual 
imagery. Instead of standing 
up for the principles of free 
speech and academic freedom, 
President Robert Melirabian 
stood up to television cameras 
and condemned bestiality and 
child pom that he said circu
lates on the Internet. Instead 
of defending the Internet as a 
powerful new communications 
mechanism, he defended 
Carnegie Mellons right to cen
sor whatever it wished.
The faculty has joined stu
dents in their outrage over the 
administrations decision. Fac
ulty Senate last Thursday 
unanimously passed a resolu
tion condemning the 
Universitys action and de
manding the banned bboards 
be restored immediately.
I was proud of Carnegie 
Mellon, because were always
t first in technology, said Herb 
Toor, professor emeritus of 
chemical engineering and 
former chair of Faculty Senate, 
at the Faculty Senate meeting. 
Now were first in censoring 
free speech.
So far, the administration has 
been willing to listen to con
cerns from the University com
munity, and this dialogue must 
continu e. But this dialogue does 
not excuse the administration 
from taking immediate action 
to restore the banned bboards.
There is no legal or technical 
reason to remove them. The 
University must stand up for 
the principles upon which it 
was founded and resistthe urge 
to censor.
It must stand fast against 
negative publicity. It must em
brace free speech and academic 
freedom and restore the re
moved bboards.
DeclanMcCulIagh is Student 
Body President and a senior 
cognitive science major.
CD 
TRADER
VISIT A NEW KIND OF MUSIC STORE...
Alternative, blues, jazz, imports, pop/rock, reggae, ska, 
techno, world plus 50 other categories...
10.(1(10 new and used CD's, 
hear any CD before you buy it, 
low prices, buy or trade program, 
cheap large posters,
and the best deals in the area.
201 South Craig Street 
Oakland 
687-6626
Monday- Saturday
11 am to 5pm10am to 6pm
lets 
talk....
iiboii/
.................
Were Information Resources, Inc., one of the worlds pre
mier marketing research firms with over 5,000 employees 
in offices around the globe.
-V caree
,0 ,.*..............&X* ** ,you want t0? O work with top consumer
packaged goods companies? 
Work with large databases? Build new systems? Then 
your future could be with IRI. Join us in our innovative 
and dynamic environment as a Systems Programmer, 
Research Analyst or Assistant Project Director. We are 
looking for overachievers with a sharp analytical 
aptitude, effective communication skills, computer experi
ence and strong quantitative abilities.
... .aboutYOU
Now, its your turn. Wed like to know more about 
you...your talents and career goals. Join us on:
Tuesday, November 15 
6:30 - 8:30 PM 
Porter 126A 
Come casual., we do.
If you are interested in exploring career 
opportunities with IRI, please contact your 
Placement Office or write to: Stacie Sobieski, 
College Recruiting, IRI, 150 N. Clinton, Chicago, 
a 60661-1416.
informationresources
IRI is an equal opportunity employer m/f/d/v
Drug legalization would reduce crime
LEGALIZATION, from page 6
-laud the educational efforts, but 
most of them come across like 
something from the movie classic 
Reefer Madness. Drug use is a 
good thing, but I still cant under
stand the amount of propaganda 
thats been unleashed. Commer
cials give the impression that one 
joint will send you-straight to 
hell. This is ridiculous. Its even 
ruined rock music. Meatloafs 
newest album has a section that 
has Sex and Drums and Rock 
and Roll. Aiiieeee!
Why do we have trouble with 
illicit drugs? Weve spent tons of 
money on enforcement efforts, in
terdiction, and aid to countries 
for the removal of the supplies. 
Has it panned out? No. The prob
lem is that if theres a demand for 
drugs, there will be a supply. Why 
prosecute people who harm no 
one in the process of committing 
a crime? Theft, murder, arson, 
and most other crimes have a 
criminal and a victim. Drug use 
has only the criminal.
People say that drugs cause
crime. Nonsense. The only crime 
caused by drug use is when you 
have prohibition on the use itself. 
Other criminal results of drug 
use are directly the result of the 
fact that illegality has driven the 
price up. Want to render the drugpeddling gangs impotent? Legal
ize drugs. Prohibitions have al
ways been to the advantage of 
organized crime, since criminals 
use it to develop networks and 
financial resources.
What about other casualties of 
the drug war? Civil rights have
been stomped over. Private prop, 
erty is no longer sacrosanct. % 
gal search and seizure are nov?s 
way of life for law enforcement 
During the last prohibition,  
least the government was honest 
enough to make a constitutional 
amendment authorizing it. Thjj 
time it just did it, constitutional, 
ity be damned. If nothing e 
upsets you, this should.
James Stepanek is a PhD s 
dent in MSE who thinks prohibi 
tions, in general, are ludicrous.
Student sees little cultural awareness
AWARENESS, from page 7
offensive. I can no longer count the number of 
times people have given me a hard time about 
my name. Nor can I count the number of 
times people have told me, in a rather sur
prised tone of voice, that I speak English well. 
I can handle the jabs at me. However, I do get 
upset when people pick on my family.
Ive had people claim that they cant under
stand my mother. I find that surprising, since 
my mother speaks better English than most 
of the people I know. And as far as her funky 
accent goes, its more British then anything 
else. When relatives visit, I always get com
ments about the weird guy whos staying at
[my] house. Its as though they cant con
ceptualize anything different from subur
ban American culture.
I dont understand why this has to be the 
case. America is supposed to be a melting 
pot, or rather, stew of cultures. Everyone 
who comes here adds a little of his or her 
heritage. So why are people so ignorant? 
Why do they think that every Indian in 
America is Apu?
No one would ever claim that all Irishmen 
are drunkards. No one would claim that all 
Italians are greasy. People used to say 
things like that. The Irish and Italians in 
America used to be discriminated against.
But now that people have learned about the 
Irish and Italian cultures, they have 1 
incorporated in American life. Why cant the 
same thing happen with Indians?
All it takes is a open mind. If people tookthe 
time to learn about what they dont under
stand, theyll find that its not as strange a 
they once thought. Until that happens, people 
like me will have to deal with episode after 
episode of Apu and the misconceptions heldby 
all the people who think he represents us.
Mahua Dutta is a senior professional writ
ing major who will shoot the next person who 
asks her what tribe shes in.
On campus 
Interviews
There are platforms and protocols, operating systems and architectures. But theres 
only one standard: Adobe Systems Incorporated. We are the unquestioned leader in 
communication and presentation tools. How have we earned that position? Simple. 
The power of individual thought. We are sparked by a creative, intelligent team that 
is focused on constantly raising the standard for excellence and innovation in product 
technology. If the standard you set for your future is just as high as ours, sign up for 
an interview today and learn more about the following opportunities.
Quality Assurance Engineer 
Associate OEM Support Engineer 
Driver Development Engineer 
Applications Engineer 
Members of Technical Staff
Positions based in Mountain View, CA and/or Seattle, WA
Interviews will be held:
Monday, November 21st and Tuesday, November 22nd 
Carnegie Mellon Career Center
If unable to attend, please send your resume to: Adobe Systems Incorporated, 
College Relations, 1625 Charleston Road, RO. Box 7900, Mountain View, CA 
94039-7900. We are an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and 
Welcome and Encourage Diversity in the Workplace. Principals only, please.
 1994 Addlic. Systegis Ineorpnrated. All rights reserved. Addite and the Adohe logo t .suli.sidiuries and may lie registered in certain jurisdictions.i*, trademarks of Adolie Systems Incdipdiated or its
TM
Adobe

---------------------------------------------------

______________ORJS______________
Winter sports make 1994 debut
Mens basketball needs experience
jy JOHN FLETCHER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
CMU mens basketball will soon be 
underway, with high hopes for the up
coming season. The Tartans play their 
first game on the road Friday, as they 
participate in the West Penn Classic. 
The first home game will be November 
26, when the Tartans host the CMU 
Invitational. The first home UAA game 
will be December 2 versus Emory Uni
versity. The team hopes to rebound from 
a disappointing season last year, when 
the Tartans were 7-7 in the UAA and 
10-14 overall. I think were going to 
have a very exciting year, says first 
year assistant coach Scott Young. We 
have a lot of upperclassmen (five jun
iors) , but we also have a lot of untested 
players, too. The only senior on the 
team is point guard Steve Athanas.
The team lost five seniors from last 
years team. Among them were 1,000- 
point scorers Charlie Connors, Derek 
Dragisich, and Mike Hosni.
Weve got a lot of scoring to replace, 
says Young. The coaching staff, led by 
fifth-year head coach Tony Wingen, 
hopes that some key underclassmen will 
step up and provide the scoring punch 
that was lost. It is hard to tell [how the 
team is going to do], explains Young. 
We could have a great year, or a real 
tough transition year until these guys 
become seniors next year. In the UAA 
coaches poll, the Tartans were picked to 
finish seventh out of nine teams.
The players who are expected to con
tribute scoring punch this season are 
junior forward Kevin Byrne, junior guard
Gregg Lassan, and sophomore guard 
Rich Bodnar. The team expects big con
tributions from inside players as well. 
The four inside players who are going to 
see the most time are junior forwards 
Jon Blanciak, Steve Hartman, and Eric 
Ronzio, and sophomore center Gary 
Trendel.
Several freshmen have played well in 
spots during prac
tices, which could be 
a sign of things to 
come. Hopefully ev
eryone gets their 
chance to contrib
ute, says Young.
Its going to depend 
on how quickly our 
underclassmen step 
it up.
Athanas, Blan
ciak, Byrne, Hart
man, and Ronzio 
will be relied upon 
for their experience 
in the early part of 
the season.
The coaching staff 
has every reason to 
be optimistic this 
season, since there 
are no injuries to re
port. Weve had a 
few bumps and 
bruises early on, but 
as of right now there 
are no major inju
ries that are caus
ing us problems, ex
plains Young.
The coaching staff
has not decided on a starting lineup 
yet, since the first game isnt until the 
end of the week. Young did state that 
Athanas and Bodnar will receive most 
of the time at the guard positions, with 
Lassan contributing scoring off the 
bench. Byrne, Blanciak, Ronzio, 
Hartman, and Trendel will share time 
Please see BASKETBALL, page 10
Depth aids womens team
By ANUJ GUPTA
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU womens basketball team 
has been in preparation the past few 
weeks for what will prove to be a long 
and grueling road to the possibility of a 
UAA Championship. The Tartan 
women are coming off a season in which 
they finished sev
enth in the UAA 
Conference with a 
combined record of 
1015. In the pro
cess of changing sea
sons, they lost four 
seniors to gradua
tion, including 
Jeanine Megahan, 
who was the second 
leading scorer in 
Tartan history.
Yet, with the ar
rival of a new sea
son comes the ar
rival of new faces, 
which in terms of the 
1994-95 womens 
squad means five 
freshmen. The five 
rookies will be com
bined with nine 
sophmores to form 
what will be an 
extremly young 
team, but one with 
loads of potential.
According to head 
coach Gerri Seidl, 
We have a good 
solid [group of] 10Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
people that we will rotate in and out. We 
have a good, solid running game.
According to Seidl, this team will be 
one of interchangeable parts, as only 
three of the starting five have an as
sured spot.
The three who Seidel spoke of will 
include senior Jennifer Gretz, and sopho
mores Becky McCadney and Kristen 
Kupfer.
Gretz, listed at 58", is one of the co
captains this year. She plays the wing 
guard position, and is described by Seidl 
as a go-to player, and is definitely a 
scorer. She has the ability to penetrate 
and dish-off, and hit the three-pointer. 
Seidel will look to Gretz for leadership 
throughout the course of the season.
McCadney, 511", will also be a signifi
cant part of the game plan this year as 
she will be starting at either the center 
or one of the forward positions. 
McCadney is considered the Tartans 
best defensive player in the post, and 
has the ability to set up the pick and 
screen. According to Seidl, She is very 
aggressive.... She is the most unselfish 
player we have. McCadney and Gretz 
work well together, and Seidl hopes that 
they will have many chances to play 
together as McCadney was injured for 
much of last year.
Kristen Kupfer, 59", will start at small 
forward. She is considered to be the 
most athletic player on the team. She 
posseses quickness and good instincts.
Sophomore Penny Summerville, the 
other co-captain, would normally be 
starting at the point guard position, but 
due to an injury over the summer, she 
Please see HOOPS, page 11Swim teams open 1994 season with mixed results
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The swim team opened its season this 
past weekend. The women hosted their 
first meet Friday against Indiana Uni
versity of Pennsylvania. CMU stuggled 
against this Division II team, losing 56- 
147.
However, they did have some high
lights. The 200-yard medley relay team 
opened up the meet with a win and a 
new school record.
Junior Rebecca Fruehan, sophomore 
Christina Hagopian, and freshmen Jen 
DeFlippo and Jan Supancic finished in 
1:59.06.
It was a great way to start the sea
son, said head coach Jim Cutrone.
Fruehan also placed first and set pool 
records in the 200-yard individual relay 
and 500-yard freestyle in 2:14.60 and 
5:18.02, respectively.
On Saturday, the womens team con
tinued to have individual success in spite
Carroll 98-112.
At that meet, Freuhan and senior Sa
rah Broadly finished placed first and 
second in the 100-yard freestyle. 
DeFlippo won the 200-yard backstroke 
in 2:25.71.
The Tartans also won the 400-yard 
freestyle relay. Members of the relay 
were DeFlippo, Broadly, Hagopian, and 
freshman Carly Candella.
For nationals, you just need quality, 
not large numbers, Cutrone said. Our
of losing to Grove City 86-117 and John womens team has a lot of quality.
The mens swim team split its meet 
against John Carroll and Grove City. 
The Tartans defeated John Carroll 112- 
84, but lost to Grove City 90114.
Freshman Jake McGuire won the 200- 
yard backstroke in 2:03.12.
A couple of Tartans were double win
ners. Freshman Mike Foster finshedfirst 
in the 50- and 100-yard freestyles in 
22.63 and 50.10, respectively.
Junior Matt Moe won the 200-yard 
freestyle in 1:49.09 and the 200-yard 
breaststroke in 2:15.16.
McGuire and Moe also helped the Tar
tans as they won the 400-yard medley 
relay in 3:44.16. Other members of the 
relay were junior George Schmidt and 
junior Mike Berty.
Our men would like to regain second 
[in the UAA], but a lot depends on how 
freshman class develops, said Cutrone. 
[The women] have the strongest team 
weve ever had. We are hoping for a 
fourth or fifth place finish. Both teams 
would like to be in the top 10 in the 
country at nationals.Soccer teams achieved unparalleled success in 1994
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
This fall has been an extremely 
successful one for the Carnegie 
Mellon soccer 
program. Both 
the mens and 
womens soccer 
teams had tre
mendous sea
sons and broke 
numerous 
records. The 
mens team fi
nally received 
its first NCAA 
playoff invita
tion, and the 
womens team 
finished fifth in 
the region and 
almost won the 
UAA title.
Perhaps the most important by the coaches in the conference, 
feature of the season was the Senior forwards Mike Brazinski 
teams first ever trip to the NCAA and Alex Amezquita were picked 
Divisions III playoffs. After two to the first team while senior goalstraight years of finishing fifth in 
the Mid-Atlantic Region while the 
top four 
teams made 
the playoffs, 
the team fi
nally fin
ished fourth 
in the region 
and got their 
first bid.
Senior Alex Amezquita , the 
mens leading scorer, is one of 
many graduating seniors.
In a pre-season UAA poll, the ing against 
men were picked to finish third in the number 
the UAA, behind Rochester and three team 
Washington. in the naHowever, the Tartans defeated tion, MuhRochester and tied Washington lenbergCol
on their way to a 5-1-1 UAA lege, but 
record and a second place finish they were 
m the conference, right behind not able to 
Washington. pull out the
During the course of the sea- win in a 
spn, the team displayed its supe- penalty kick 
nor skill and speed against most shootout, 
of its opponents and finished with It was a
, greatf sea- Junior Nicole Polsson led the women's
scnool records during their 14th but it ended 
consecutive winning season. They a little tough, said head mens 
set new marks for longest win- coach Nick Gaudioso. Im really 
ing and undefeated streaks at 9 happy with the way the kids 
10, respectively. They also played. 
wed the record for most wins in a Six players on the mens team 
season with 13. were voted to the All-UAA teams
keeper Dan Warren, senior 
midfielder Pat Lucignani, and 
freshmen midfielders Jason 
Buelow and Akira Imai were se
lected to the second team.
Amezquita was the top scorer 
for the Tartans and number two 
in the UAA with 27 points on 
nine goals and nine assists. 
Brazinski, last years UAA Most 
Valuable Player, was the thirdThe Tar- leading scorer for the Tartans 
tans had a with 24 points on seven goals and 
great show- 10 assists. This is his third AllUAA first 
team selec
tion.
Buelow was 
the secondleading scorer 
for the Tar
tans with 12 
goals and two 
assists for a to
tal of 26 points.
Warren 
made 73 saves 
throughout 
the season and 
finished with a 
1.18 goalsagainst averGaudioso 
hopes to build 
from this 
years success. 
Were already thinking about 
next season, he said. Its not 
going to be easy [losing all the 
seniors].
The womens team also had a 
Please see SOCCER, page 11
Final 1994 soccer statistics
CMUs final 1994 men's soccer statistics
Results (13-3-2 overall, 5-1-1 UAA)
Carnegie Mellon 2, Western Maryland 0 
Carnegie Mellon 2, Washington & Jefferson 1 
Carnegie Mellon 3, Case Western Reserve University 2 
University of Pittsburgh 3, Carnegie Mellon 2 
Carnegie Mellon 3, Washington (Mo.) 3 
Carnegie Mellon 3, Point Park 0 
Carnegie Mellon 6, Waynesburg 0 
Carnegie Mellon 3, NYU 2 (OT)
Carnegie Mellon 2, Emory 0 
Carnegie Mellon 4, Franklin & Marshall 0 
Carnegie Mellon 5, Allegheny 1 
Carnegie Mellon 5, Penn State-Behrend 0 
Carnegie Mellon 2, Grove City 1 
Carnegie Mellon 2, Rochester 1 
Brandis 5, Carnegie Mellon 1 
Bethany 3, Carnegie Mellon 0 
Carnegie Mellon 1, Chicago 
Muhlenberg 0, Carnegie Mellon 0 
(Muhlenberg wins shootout 3-2)*
CMUs final 1994 womens soccer statistics
Results (13-3-2 overall, 4-1-1 UAA)
Kenyon 1, Carnegie Mellon 0
Carnegie Mellon 6, Waynesburg 0
Carnegie Mellon 2, Case Western Reserve University 0
Carnegie Mellon 1, Allegheny 1 (OT)
Carnegie Mellon 2, Washington (Mo.) 0 
Carnegie Mellon 5, Hiram 0 
Wittenberg 6, Carnegie Mellon 2 (OT)
Carnegie Mellon 3, Seton Hill 0 
Carnegie Mellon 1, Emory 0 (OT)
Carnegie Mellon 5, Washington & Jefferson 0
Carnegie Mellon 1, Marymount 0
Carnegie Mellon 3, Catholic 0
Carnegie Mellon 4, Geneva 1
Carnegie Mellon 1, Bethany 0
Carnegie Mellon 1, Rochester 1
Carnegie Mellon 1, Brandis 0
Carnegie Mellon 3, Grove City 0
Chicago 2, Carnegie Mellon 1
(* NCAA Division III playoffs)Team StatisticsCarnegie MellonOpponents
Goals4212
Team Statistics Carnegie MellonOpponentsShots on Goal310139
Goals 4622Comer Kicks9841
Shots on Goal 348180Saves88142
Corner Kicks 9096
Saves 7582Individual Statistics
NameGoalsAssistsPointsti
Individual StatisticsNicole Poisson13632
NameGoalsAssistsPoints#Alyssa Newman10424
Alex Amezquita9927Mae Hogan4715
Jason Buelow12226Julie Paul5111
Michael Brazinski71024Christina Isaly3511
Vince Russell51121Kim Umeda3410
Akira Imai6517Lauren deRosset237
Chuck Kuba339Maria Casella124
Pat Lucignani157Kathi Watson113
Nick Moons204Kim Toda011
Alan Levin124Marla Spontak011
Dale Morgan011Jill Sincaglia011
Suraj Naik011Erika Banuelos011
Dan Warren011(# Two points for each goal and onefor each assist)
(# Two points for each goal,and one for each assist)GAGoalkeeperGMin.Saves
Goalkeepers GMin.SavesGASO Avg.
11SO Avg.Jill Weber181,48584
Dan Warren 181,670732210.3 0.67
7.7 1.18K. Morrison516121
John Moran 240201.0 0.55
0.3 0.00Kendra McCoy 
0.7 0.00
46420
I

---------------------------------------------------

lgM,G MSAcSo v dSAoGinG aGtteo v lm EepGysGA lwwm
Shadyside 
Tanning  Nails  Waxing  Facials 
We Carry
Aveda ? Paul Mitchell ? Matrix  Nexxus 
Sebastian * Tri ? Redid * Goirfwell 
Image  Sukesha * OPi * Sk incare  Makeup 
Open Seven Days a Week and Most Evenings 
813 South Aiken 
682 - 4063 
Save $4.00 on Haircuts 
.9 am to 2 pm Monday thru Friday 
(with select stylist)
Cross-country struggles at regionals
By DAVID OSORIO
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The mens and 
womens cross-coun
try teams set out 
this past weekend to 
contend in the 
NCAA Mideastern 
Region Cross-Country Championship 
held at Allentown 
College.
The womens 
team finished 10th 
overall in the race, 
in which 35 teams 
participated. The 
top five runners for 
the team were jun
ior Missy Baustert, 
freshman Melissa 
Lott, sophomore
Becky Bucheit, junior Sangita Jinwala, and fresh
man Laura Mankamayer.
Coach Dario Donatelli said that the team may 
have been a little disappointed with the finish, but 
all the girls who ran in this meet before performed 
much better than in the years past. Donatelli had 
hopes of finishing in the top five.
We hope that next year the location of the meet 
is changed. It is a 300-mile journey to Allentown, 
Donatelli said. We arrived late on Friday evening 
and had to race Saturday morning. We hope that 
the location for next years race will be changed to 
Dickinson as expected.
He also said that he was happy with the perfor
mance of his team this year. We had a good 
season, he said. yIt was just one race that didnt 
work out for us.
The mens cross
country team finished 11th in the race 
against a total of 48 
teams. Coach Gary 
Meckley also expected 
his team to rank in 
the top five.
This is the worst 
showing a team under 
me has ever per
formed. I have never 
had a team rank less 
than fifth place be
fore, he said. I be
lieve this was probably 
because my best run
ner, [junior] Scott 
Moore, could not par
ticipate due to illness and because the team was 
not psychologically prepared to run without the 
number-one runner.
The first five runners for the mens team were 
junior Matt Beam, junior Pablo Preece, sophomore 
Josh Greynolds, sophomore Ron Polcawich, and 
sophomore Paul Hatala.
Meckley said, It is time we turn a new leaf and 
start over. I respect all my runners for the time and 
dedication they have given to the team, even under 
all the academic pressures they have to endure. 
Many runners will compete in indoor track or 
outdoor track and field later in the academic year.
Tartans follow plan of youth
BASKETBALL, from page 9
at the forward and center positions. Young says, 
Upperclassmen are going to get their shots 
early in the year, and there are some freshmen 
that we are going to bring along.
There are three main factors which will deter
mine how well the Tartans do this season. De
fense and rebounding are two of them. One 
thing that is going to stress whether we win or 
not is how quickly we play really hard defense
and concentrate on rebounding, says Young. The 
other factor is gaining experience. It is going to 
depend on how quickly we gain experience, gel 
together, and play together, and do the little things 
[it takes] to win the games.
We are going to do our best to make sure that 
were winning, so that people will want to come out 
and watch us, Young said. Part of that is having 
a good home crowd to come to; that helps you win 
your home games.
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
NO GIMMICKS 
EXTRA INCOME NOW!
ENVELOPE STUFFING: 
$600 - $800 every week
Free Details: SASE to...
International Inc.
1375 Coney Island Ave. 
Brooklyn, New York 11230
Need a Friend?
Coping with an unplanned pregnancy?
Turn your crisis into a plan.
CMU beats cross-Oakland rivals
By ERIC APPLEWHITE 
& COREY ZINN
Special to The Tartan
The CMU Ice Hockey Team won an important 
game Friday night against the University of 
Pittsburgh, 4 2. In what was arguably their best 
game of the season, CMU managed to overcome 
the good skating of Pitt with strong defense in 
the neutral zone and swarming attacks in front 
of the net. An advantage in shots, 28-22, a 
strong performance by sophomore goaltender 
Jon Kliegman, and strong checking all were 
factors in this key win.
After a scoreless first period, CMU opened the 
scoring four minutes into the second when junior 
center Roger Maddalena drove home a rebound 
on a shot from the point by sophomore defenseman 
Chris Adukaitis. Five minutes later, after CMU 
failed to score with a five on three advantage, 
Pitt scored a goal on the power play to tie the 
game. CMU regained the lead with tenacious 
work around the net by the second line. All three
forwards pressed into the zone and had good 
scoring chances. Senior wing Dan Kodesh, stand
ing beside the net, finally angled the puck off the 
goalies back and in for a goal. With 2:40 
remaining in the second period, senior captain 
John Cardillo wristed one in on a rebound of a 
blast from the point by freshman defenseman 
Bryan Campo.
The third period was characterized by physi
cal play and many penalties by both teams. 
With 4:39 remaining, Kliegman was unable to 
ward off a shot in traffic as Pitt closed the gap to 
a single goal. Two minutes later, Cardillo sealed 
the victory with a phenomonal shot directly off 
the faceoff, arcing the puck into the net before 
the Pitt players had a chance to react.
With this victory, CMU upped its league record 
to 2-0-1 (3-0-1 overall).
Next weekend, the hockey team finishes their 
fall semester schedule with a Friday night game 
against California University of Pennsylvania 
and a Saturday night game against Allegheny 
College.
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Euraii Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
Licensed
Agency
Free counseling, support 
& personal attention
Call Today
734-2662
or, 1-800-BETHANY
Tartans win Academic Bowl, share of UAA crown
By JOHN WEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
Saturday the Tartans traveled 
to Cleveland to play their final 
game of the 1994 season against 
Case Western Reserve Univer
sity in the Academic Bowl. In 
1986, this matchup between the 
Tartans and the Spartans was 
named the Academic Bowl in rec
ognition of the two institutions 
outstanding academic reputa
tions. Carnegie Mellon had held 
on to the Academic Bowl trophy 
the last five years, and was look
ing to make it six in a row. In the 
end, it was rather elementary as 
the Tartans rolled over the Spar
tans 50-8.
Case Western Reserve (CWRU) 
entered the game with a 1-8 
record and a defense that was 
giving up over 40 points a game, 
so it was no surprise that , the 
Tartans scored early and often. 
On the opening kickoff, junior 
Robert Locke forced a fumble and 
right away the Tartans were on 
the Spartans 32 yard line. Six 
rushing plays later, senior Jason 
Grusky punched the ball in from 
the one to give the Tartans a 7-0 
lead. On the next drive, CWRU 
fumbled again, this time at 
midfield. Again the Tartans ran 
the ball, this time 14 straight 
times, to take a two-touchdown 
lead on another Grusky run from 
the one yard line. In fact, the 
Tartans didnt bother to throw a 
pass at all until senior Chris Dee 
dropped back and threw an in
complete pass with only 2:16 left 
in the first quarter. Thats how 
well the Tartans controlled their 
line of scrimmage.
After the two Tartan touch
downs, both teams punted the 
ball back and forth to each other 
until there was about 11 minutes 
left in the first half. From the
Spartan 46 yard line, Dee threw 
a 46-yard bomb to freshman Rico 
Parrish and the Tartans took a 
21 -0 lead. On the next Case West
ern drive, Locke intercepted quar
terback Nick Leskiewicz and the 
Tartans were once again in busi
ness. Then when senior Matt 
Neiss pulled down a deflected 
pass for a 15-yard gain, it looked 
like Carnegie Mellon was going 
to score again before the end of 
the half. However, on fourth and
11 to go from the Spartans 38 
yard line, Dee overthrew a wide 
open Parrish, who would have 
easily had a touchdown. But the 
Spartans punted again, and with 
three minutes left in the first 
half, Dee got the offense moving 
again. First he hit Neiss for 10 
yards, then again a few plays 
later for 17 yards. Then after 
Grusky carried the ball a few 
more times, Dee hit junior Mike 
Mathias for an eight-yard gain 
that set up a 39-yard field goal by 
sophomore Matt Jarock.
The Tartans went into the 
locker room at halftime with a 
24-0 lead. They had gained 277 
total yards, compared to CWRUs 
measly 69 yards. Grusky, on 19 
carries, already had 69 yards and 
two touchdowns. Dee was 9 of 18 
for 128 yards and a touchdown. 
The Tartans were looking good, 
and they only got better.
On the first play of the second 
half, Grusky swept around the 
left side for 23 yards to move into 
second place on the Carnegie 
Mellon all-time rushing leaders 
list behind alumnus Scott 
Bamyak. A few plays later, Dee 
found Parrish again on a 33-yard 
touchdown pass to extend the 
Tartan lead to 31-0. On the next 
Tartan drive, with about seven 
minutes left in the third quarter, 
Dee got shaken up and left the 
Tartan lineup for the final time
in his career. Mathias and 
Grusky, however, stayed in and 
helped moved the Tartans down 
to the Spartans three yard line. 
An unsportsmanlike conduct pen
alty, however, forced the Tartans 
back to the 18 yard line. And 
after junior David Soltysik threw 
an incomplete pass on fourth and 
goal, the Spartans took over at 
their ownl8yardline. Leskiewicz 
then led his team to the Carnegie
Tartan file photo 
Record-setter Chris Dee went out 
a winner in CMUs 50-8 victory.
Mellon 21 yard line, where junior 
Avinash Barat picked him off to 
end the drive.
Each team punted back and 
forth once, and then the Tartans 
took over at midfield, where jun
ior Keith Dickerson took over as 
quarterback. After Dickerson ran 
for a nine yard gain, he threw a 
40 yard touchdown strike to Neiss 
for the Tartans fifth touchdown 
ofthe afternoon. Leskiewicz again 
moved his team, this time down 
to the Tartans 6 yard line, but 
the Spartans were unable to score 
on fourth down, and the Tartans 
took over again. Soltysik returned 
as quarterback and threw a 44-
yard pass to Jeff Jones all the 
way to the CWRU nine yard line. 
A few plays later, sophomore 
Tyson Baker carried the ball in 
from the one and the Tartans led 
43-0. William Bryant returned 
the ensuing kickoff 53 yards all 
the way to the Tartans 37 yard 
line. Then Leskiewicz hit Joel 
Gabele twice, first for 19 yards 
and then for 18 yards. The second 
pass got the Spartans on the board 
for the first and only time in the 
game. Bryant caught the two 
point conversion and the Spar
tans trailed 43-8. The last score 
ofthe game came when Dickerson 
darted up the middle, through 
the Spartan defense, for a 29- 
yard gain and the Tartans sev
enth touchdown of the game. The 
game ended with the Tartans 
easily in the lead, 50-8.
After the game, coach Rich 
Lackner said he was very happy. 
Our team has really come along. 
It was a good way to end things, 
he said. He also said that despite 
losing some tight games early in 
the season, the Tartans never 
lost confidence. To the seniors 
who had finished their careers at 
Carnegie Mellon, he said he was 
grateful. Theyre all fine players 
and fine people. Its sad that you 
have to see them go, but you feel 
happy for them. Finally, he said 
that he likes what he sees in 
some of his younger players. 
Good football teams are con
stantly replacing graduating se
niors with good football players.
The Tartans beat the Spartans 
in just about every category. They 
finished the game with a whop
ping 631 total yards, with 361 
total yards on the ground. The 
Tartans intercepted Leskiewicz 
three times and held onto the ball 
for over 40 minutes ofthe game. 
Grusky finished the game with 120 yards rushing and two touch
downs. Behind him came 
Dickerson with 61 yards rush
ing, Soltysik with 58 yards rush
ing, and Mathias with 45 yards 
rushing. Dee finished 11 of 20 for 
176 yards and two touchdowns. 
Parrish led the Tartans with 79 
yards receiving and two touch
downs, followed byNeiss who had 
65 yards and one touchdown.
In addition, the Tartans com
pleted their 20th consecutive win
ning season, won a share of the 
UAA championship, and took 
home the Academic Bowl trophy 
for the sixth straight year. The 
Tartans have also continued their 
scoring streak throughout the 
1994 season. They have now gone 
215 straight games without be
ing shutout. This is a Division III 
record; the all time record is 246 
games held by UCLA.
record category, Grusky leaves 
Carnegie Mellon as the second 
all time leading rusher with 1,913 
yards rushing. Dee leaves as the 
second all-time leading passer 
with 4,991 yards passing and first 
as the all time touchdown pas3 
leader with 53 touchdown passes,
Sophomore Frank Triggiani 
just missed the single-season 
punting record with his 37.3 av. 
erage. Finally, Mathias failed to 
get the one touchdown reception 
he needed to tie the single-season 
all-time record held by Jarrod 
Siket, who caught nine last year, 
In fact, Mathias almost had it in 
the second quarter, when he 
dropped a sure touchdown pass 
in the end zone.
With this victory the Tartans 
finish the season with a 7-3 record 
overall and a 3-1 UAA record.
Tartan file photoRunning back Jason Grusky, pictured against Grove City, finished his 
career as CMUs number two all-time rusher.
Individual accomplishments 
include several UAA honors 
throughout the season. Most re
cently, Mark Kasperowicz was 
named UAA Defensive Player of 
the Week for his performance 
against Grove City. In the school
In the UAA, the Tartans fin
ished the year tied for first with 
Washington (Mo.) University.
Since the beginning of a UAA 
football conference in 1990, the 
Tartans have won or shared all 
but one UAA conference title.

---------------------------------------------------

j1
Volume 89. Issue 10 The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 14 November 1994
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter 
As I opened the door to the 
Campus Communications Cen
ter on that muggy Saturday night, 
I had no idea what I should ex
pect. After all, this was the first
clock that hung on the wall across 
from me. A number of officers 
walked in and out of the office, 
each offering me a cup of coffee 
with a warm hello.
At 10:45 pm, Sergeant Kozikowski entered. He wore a look
up the last of their, coffee. Each 
wondered what the night would 
bring, contemplating whether it 
would be a slow or busy evening.
I was stationed with Sergeant 
Algeri who had worked the foot
ball game earlier in the day and
Cllll ^njirai/ laiian muiu enllnl
Officer Aigeri writes up a citation after witnessing a mooning outside of Doherty Apartments.
assignment I have had that en
tailed an all-night escapade with 
a police officer. The clock read 
10:40 pm, and the heavy glass 
door slammed behind me. The 
officer at the desk greeted me as 
she glanced up from her array of 
paperwork. Oh yes, she said, 
Sergeant Kozikowski has been 
expecting you. Hell be here any
of appreciation on his worried 
face and said to me after our 
introductions, I know you dont 
want to hear this, but I hope you 
have a really boring evening, be
cause if you do, then I will.
At 11:05 pm, the sergeant 
brought me to a small room where 
we found six officers huddled 
around a table examining papers,
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor 
Sirens flash as police cars line up on Margaeret Morrison Street.
was to patrol the campus until 
the early hours of the morning as 
he did the previous night.
As we began to pull out of the 
driveway he said, Last night was 
slow. There werent any [frater
nity] parties, and there wasnt 
much activity on campus. Basi
cally, there are more problems 
when there are [fraternity] par
ties because more 
people are on cam
pus, especially 
from other univer
sities.
According to Al
geri, the weekend 
incidents contrast 
greatly with those 
that take place dur
ing the week. He 
said, Virtually all 
the incidents dur
ing the weekend are 
alcohol related .... 
When we deal with 
an intoxicated individual, basically 
our primary conniinute. I took a seat and watched 
the seconds tick by on the white
cera is to get the 
chatting amongst themselves, individual home and in bed unchomping on gum, and finishing less he or she is physically ill. In
that case, we take them to the 
hospital.
At midnight, Algeris first call 
for the evening blared over the 
radio. His assistance was needed 
at Phi Kappa Theta fraternity 
where an individual brought al
cohol outside of the house. A cita
tion was issued, and within min
utes, 10 to be exact, Algeri was 
again called, this time to back a 
fellow officer at the Margaret 
Morrison Day Care Center where 
an open door was found. After 
inspecting the building cau
tiously, Algeri said, Somebody 
must have forgotten to lock the 
door. It happens sometimes.
As Algeri patrolled various 
parking lots and off-campus sites 
such as Shirley Apartments and 
Winthrop Street, he commented 
on the safety of CMUs campus. 
He said, I think our campus is 
relatively safe. Surprisingly, the 
criminal element of the city 
doesnt really work its way up 
here.
Occasionally we have some 
outsiders cause trouble with 
thefts and disorderly acts, but 
mainly it stays downtown.
However, Algeri emphasized 
the fact that students must not 
take their own safety lightly. He 
said, Students must remember, 
our campus is an open campus. 
Virtually all facilities are open, 
so students must take the neces
sary precautions like locking the 
door when they arent in and not 
walking around campus alone in 
order to stay out of danger.
By now, it was 
12:30 am, and Of
ficer Algeri headed 
to the Doherty 
Apartments park
ing area where a 
group of teenagers 
were gathered.
As soon as he 
pulled into the 
driveway, one of 
the youths, who 
was not a CMU stu
dent, mooned pass
ing cars on Forbes 
Avenue.
Consequently,
Algeri issued him a citation. Im
mediately following this incident,
Algeri went to the Communica
tions Center to write up the nec
essary paperwork.
At 1:11 am, Algeri was back 
patrolling the campus as rain 
began to gently pelt his vehicles 
windshield. Good, he said, Its 
starting to rain. Itll chase every
one inside and keep them out of 
trouble.
He added, Its been a pretty 
slow night tonight, but you never 
know. One minute you could have 
a calm night and the next minute 
it could blow up in your face.
As he drove, the soft hum of the 
car was interrupted by a voice on 
the radio reporting that assis
tance was needed at Beta Theta 
Pi. Apparently, an individual
ac
ity quad.
Algeri drove to the scene and 
investigated. After he urged the 
individuals to go home, he pro
ceeded to patrol the campus. How
ever, at 2:14 am he was asked to 
assist his fellow officers at Spirit 
House where a disturbance had 
occurred during a party. 15 min
utes later, Algeri was in the park
ing lot of Mellon Bank on Craig 
Street where an intoxicated indi
vidual was urinating on the wall.
A citation was issued, and 
Algeri departed.
Despite all this, Algeri de
scribed the night as being not 
too bad.
I concluded from my ride along
CMU police carefully investigate an open door in Margarert Morrison.
pulled a sink off the wall and the 
house was flooding as a result. 
Within seconds of this report, anwith him that the CMU Campus 
Police certainly have a great deal 
of responsibility on their hands.
It is their duty to en
sure that CMU stu
dents live on a safe 
and crime-free cam
pus.
Our main duty, 
Algeri said, is to be 
seen and to create the 
illusion that we are ev
erywhere.
They want students 
to know that their ser
vice to the Carnegie 
Mellon community is 
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor always accessible. Itis 
Officer Paul Helffrlch goes over roll call at the dispatcher evident that they are
an asset to the wellother blared over the radio. Two being of students and the camintoxicated males were acting in pus.
desk.
Bicycle force adds to efficiency of campus police
I By SHANNON GEBNEY
Tartan Staffwriter
On your daily trek to class, amidst 
i freezing winds and Arctic temperatures, 
[ it is hard not to notice the many bikers 
speeding by. Some view bikers as in| nocuous bodies flying by on wheels. Oth! ers envision themselves thrusting a large 
stick between every bicyclists spokes as 
j he or she races by in dangerous proximi % to feet and other important limbs. 
Annoyed or unaffected, most of us are 
aware of bicyclists presence on campus. 
However, most of us are not aware that 
some of these bicyclists are also campus 
i security officers.
The bike patrol was created in 1990, 
response to an increasing number of 
bike and car thefts. We had an avid 
biker on the force and it was his idea. At 
that time we had a guy patrolling the
parking lot, watching the bike racks, 
said Paul Helffrich, bike patrolman at 
CMU.
Since then, the bike patrol has evolved 
considerably.
Training came up that January 
[1990]. We were trained in everything 
from equipment, to terrain, to just what 
happens to your body when youre on a 
bike for eight hours a day ... it also 
covered safety, patrol procedures, and 
even apprehension on bikes, said 
Helffrich.
We were trained by a Dayton police 
officer who had been on the bike patrol 
there for five years. He was also a profes
sional bike racer since he was 13. So we 
received the- best training possible be
cause it emphasized cop mentality plus 
professional bike training, Helffrich 
said.
The training cost $4,000$5,000 for
regular bike uniforms, shoes, helmets, a 
bike locker room, and specialized equip
ment.
This was enough to outfit three guys 
on two bikes, and that shows a commit
ment from Director of Security James 
Lapaglia, said Helffrich.
Helffrich said that of the 60-67 secu
rity officers at CMU, three are bike pa
trol officers. He said that there are three 
shifts a day on bikes, and that it is the 
ultimate supplement to the total patrol.
It gets into the heart of campus, 
where vehicles cant go. It also supple
ments the foot patrol because you can 
cover three to four times more ground on 
a bike than on foot. You still have the 
same details, though. A bike will do 
everything that a foot or vehicle patrol 
will do, except transport prisoners.
Its worth two people in my opinion, 
said Lapaglia. Like Helffrich, Lapaglia 
---------- ^ ,!femphasized that there is much greater 
mobility on a bike than in a car. He also 
added that a department is able to 
achieve this mobility at a much lower 
cost.
From an administrative point of view, 
its a good investment, said Lapaglia. 
He also said that the first bike patrol in 
Western Pennsylvania was in Pitts
burgh.
It developed here around the turn of 
the century, but with the advent of auto
mobiles, the use of bikes declined.
Lapaglia said that there were three 
primary advantages to the use of bike 
patrols at CMU: One, its a good crimefighting technique because of the ele
ment of stealth that you have on a bike, 
that you dont have in a vehicle.
Two, its a good crime prevention tool, 
because if people know youre out there 
and they know you are fast and efficient,
they are less likely to commit crimes.
Three, its a good PR tool, because 
more of the officers are visible. 
Helffrich concurred with Lapaglias 
praise of the improved PR created by the 
bike patrol: If you pull up on a bike, its 
a lot less threatening [than a vehicle]. 
People are a lot more willing to interact 
with you because they see you on their 
level... this is especially true on a college 
campus where a large percentage of the 
population lives on their bicycles, or at 
least gets to class and back on them ... 
instead of seeing a car drive by, you see 
a guy on a bike, so you almost have 
instant credibility there.
When questioned about the future 
designs of the bike patrol, Lapaglia said, 
We would like to have one officer who is 
a bike officer on each of the three shifts. 
All three officers trained in bike patrol 
work in the nighttime right now. 
f

---------------------------------------------------

5I M,G MSAcSo v dSAoGinG aGtteo v lm EepGysGA lwwm
Ballroom dancers 
beat expectations
By ALLIE KING
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Photo courtesy Drew Shefman The dance team poses in costume.
competitors, meaning that they have 
been dancing ballroom since Septem
ber of1993, but have never competed 
before. Andrew Huang and Fei Wong, 
the best couple, walked out of the 
competition with many awards.
The competitors danced a number 
ofballroom classics, suchas the Waltz, 
CMU successfully the fox-trot, the tango, the cha-cha,
the jive, and the 
swing. They also 
participated in 
special competi
tions, featuring 
dances like the 
Argentine tango, 
and the polka.
The event was 
not of the formal 
norm, but people 
did dress up in costume to get into the 
mood of the whole event. Some men 
wore tuxedos, while women wore 
fancy ballroom-type dresses. Coupled 
with this semi-sophisticated atmo
sphere, however, was the fun-hearted 
enthusiasm and school spirit that 
CMU competitors brought with them. 
CMU was very loud and obnoxious, 
Shefman said. It helped everyone do 
really well, to be encouraged from the 
side while they were dancing.
One of the surprising outcomes for 
the team, aside from placing second 
in International style dancing, was 
placing second in American style 
dancing as well. We dont teach that 
style here, and we didnt know how it 
happened, Shefman said.
Overall, the entire team did really 
well.
Although the club has been danc
ing for about six or seven weeks, 
everybody is still welcome and en
couraged to join. Or, if you dont want 
to come into the club in the middle, 
they will be starting over and learn
ing the dances anew next semester.
The CMU Ballroom Dance team en
tered a ballroom dancing competition 
held at Catholic University of America 
in Washington, D.C. last Saturday, 
November 5. Beating out 11 other 
college teams, 
placed second 
in both Ameri
can and Inter
national style 
team matches.
Thirty-four 
dancers from 
the team, both 
graduate and 
undergraduate 
students, trek
ked to Washington on Friday night 
for a ballroom social hour. They stayed 
at either friends houses or in a hotel, 
and the next day they all awoke with 
the swing in their heads and the chacha in their hearts.
Pam Klepal, the former ballroom 
club president, organized the entire 
event with the help of Drew Shefman, 
the current president, Danny Carlson, 
the secretary, and Pat Walsh, the 
current vice president.
The ballroom team is only a small 
part of the CMU Ballroom Club, which 
has over 220 members. Of the 34 danc
ers, 10 were newcomers to the ball
room scene: Tiffany Jastrzembski, 
Will Marrer, Laura June Mayfield, 
Michael Posner, Jessica Messner, Will 
Proctor, May Lee, Tom Gilbert, 
Stephanie Behrens, and Jee Kim only 
began dancing two months ago. Of the 
remaining team members, Liz 
Akinson, John Cheng, Dave Ravetti, 
Fei Chang, and Carole Panno are ex
perienced competitors, and Frank De 
Pietro, Bonnie Joe, Jeff Rosenfeld, 
and Bernhard Suhm are beginner
Hillel restructuring helps 
foster new membership
By SHARMELA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Staffwriter
I think the Beatles said it best with, 
Tou say you want a revolution... .This is 
whats happening to Jewish life on cam
pus, revolutionary change in how one 
approaches involvement in Jewish life, 
said Rabbi Art Donsky, executive direc
tor of the Hillel organization, the active 
Jewish community center, shared in part 
by students at both Carnegie Mellon 
and the University of Pitts
burgh.
Because of impressive 
changes that have taken 
place on,both the adminis
trative level and in the fo
cus of the club, student par
ticipation has increased 
greatly within the last year.
The number of members 
has already reached 700, ZZZZZZZZ 
surpassing all previous rec
ords. There has been a major shift in 
the purpose of the center, from being 
merely religious, to [becoming] a social 
and cultural outlet for Jewish students 
as well, said Ruth Slater, program as
sociate for Hillel, who works as the coor
dinator for CMU activities.
While the average student doesnt 
really identify himself religiously, he is 
more prone to relate to the social aspects 
of his culture, said Slater.
Placing an emphasis on the social as
pects of religious participation, events 
such as parties on the Clippership and 
trips to the Funny Bone Comedy Zone 
have removed the stigma previously car
ried of an elitist group.
Our image has really loosened up, 
said Slater. I would never have thought 
to walk through the doors [of Hillel] 
myself because it seemed too particu
larly religious. Now there is more of a 
connection with the cultural basis of 
Jewish life.
Making the organization more tan
gible for students eliminated the threat 
that many perceive in being associated 
with a religious group. It used to be that 
your personahood was totally defined by 
your identification with a particular 
group. American society tends to negate 
such attitudes, said Donsky. By aban
doning the notion of membership, 
Donsky hopes to promote the idea that 
the center is available for use with no 
strings attached. The doors are wide
There has been a major shift in the 
purpose of the center, from being 
merely religious, to [becoming] a 
social and cultural outlet. 
Ruth Slater, Hillel coordinator
open for any and all Jewish students to 
come and go... pick and choose... partici
pate and not participate, he said.
Aiming in the same direction, Hillel 
has taken on a new administrative struc
ture in the hopes of creating more direct 
student involvement. We are trying to 
set up a framework which will ensure 
that new students coming into the group 
will always get a voice ... shifting from 
concentrating on whats best for the or
ganization, to concentrating on making 
the organization what the students want 
it to be, said Jeremy Posner, a sopho
more drama productions major and ac
tive Hillel member.
A number of special interest commit
tees have been designed to fit the needs 
of a variety of students, ranging from 
Friday activity planning to Jewish 
womens activities to Israeli affairs. If a 
student is only interested in learning 
about Israel, he has an outlet to do so 
without centering on Judaism, said
Slater.
The development of such groups from 
within ensure that students will always 
have first say in their association. This 
is a significant shift from having only a 
handful of students deciding the fate of 
the group, said Posner. Hillel has also 
acquired a number of younger staff mem
bers to perpetuate a warmer feeling be
tween the students and the staff.
We want to stress that this is a stu
dent organization ... it is presumptuous 
on the part of the adminis
trators to guess what the 
students want; thus input 
from both sides is vital to 
the group, said Slater.
Another major difference 
contributing to its recent 
success is the organi
zations new establishment, 
located at the corner of 
South Craig Street and 
Forbes Avenue. Because 
of [Hillels] new location, were at more 
of an advantage in holding on-campus 
activities.
It also makes it easier for students to 
enjoy their facility, since its much closer, 
said Slater.
Having more programs on campus fa
cilitates interaction with other student 
organizations, such as Spirit and the 
Asian Students Organization; yet, Hillel 
operates independently, not as a branch 
of other Jewish cultural organizations 
such as Alpha Epsilon Pi.
Hillel has a much looser connection 
with AEPi than most people seem to 
think, said Slater.
Both organizations have a mission to 
promote the Jewish culture, which is 
why they might be closely associated, 
she added. Hillel welcomes active par
ticipation by any group.
Said Donsky, If you build a secure 
foundation  deep and wide  then all 
may come and build and play Jewish.
Power Rangers morph stupidity
Horror Stories
by Tom Harper
All, what a world we live in. 
The suns shining most of the 
time, the odd, cool breeze blows, 
people are happy ... except me. 
But thats okay now. After watch
ing some TV, I can proudly say 
one thing:
Im glad I dont live in the same 
city as the Power Rangers.
Why, say thee, am I glad I dont 
live in Angel Grove, where the 
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers 
save the world five or six times a 
week through courage, martial 
arts, and robots bigger than Wean 
and Hamerschlag Halls put to
gether?
To find out why, we must take 
a look at the format for each epi
sode and carefully infer from what 
we see. First off, theres the city 
itself, Angel Grove. I only know 
thats the citys name because 
thats the name of the high school
that the Power Rangers attend. 
If it isnt the name of the city, I 
guess Im just missing out.
First off, we almost always see 
the Power Rangers unmorphed 
in school. Judging from the school, 
Angel Grove is smack in the 
middle of white suburbia filled 
with park land.
Then the Rangers go to their 
headquarterswhich is set high 
upon a hill in a big black building. 
The only thing missing in this 
picture is the slew of investiga
tive reporters that would be out
side the building 24 hours a day 
trying to get exclusives for the 
news (if it even is news  read 
further), and also the guys from 
A Current Affair and Hard Copy 
wanting Power Ranger dirt to dig 
up.
Inside the headquarters is a 
bunch of flashing lights, a robot 
and a surreal green face with a 
mouth that doesnt move. I take 
it that means its a bunch of alien 
technology that the Power Rang
ers got a hold of at a garage sale 
somewhere. At headquarters, 
they learn of the villainy being 
plotted by the guy that looks like 
his skin was turned inside out 
(a.k.a. Lord Zed  probably the 
Bobcat Goldthwait character in
Police Academy gone wacko).
Then it cuts away to Zed and 
his henchmen (whom he always 
calls Fools! Idiots! and the 
like). Then Zed comes up with a 
dandy way to kill the Rangers 
and take over earth. The plan 
always involves making a new 
monster, giving him some hench
men, and unleashing them in the 
park when nobodys around. Good 
move, Zed.
Then the Power Rangers rush 
in to attack. They make short 
work of the henchmen with some 
Street Fighter II moves and then 
the five of them combined cant 
even touch the new monster. At 
this point Zed finds a way to make 
the new monster about 400 feet 
tall. Laughing maniacally, he 
presses some button, and the 
monster is instantly full size and 
then teleported into the middle of 
the city. Im sure the residents of 
the city have seen this kind of 
thing over 100 times before, and 
carry a New York style indiffer
ence when it comes to this.
Person: HELP!! A giant mon
ster!!!!
Other person: Must be a tour
ist.
Then the Power Rangers call 
Please see SHOW, page L3
SYRACUSEmB R
Spring semester applications 
still being accepted.
 Earn academic credits while taking classes 
in Italian or in English at the S.U. Center 
or at the University of Florence
 Discover Italy while living with Italian 
hosts and travelling
 Financial aid available
Florence, Italy
Call now for more information.
WELISFRT uesdTLRsaE
JimiSiny nd eyr/Tyarinyat PTnhTaoS E'Tnasgii9 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 
1 -800-23^-3472  315-443-3471  DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu
HEY CMU 
STUDENTS!
Are you looking for some LIVE ACTION this winter?
SCHENLEY PARK 
ICE SKATING RINK
 gives you some exercise
 is cheap
 is a great group activity
 has a pumping sound system!
You can also rent the ice for parties 
and hockey. There is a party room available for 
fraternity and sorority functions  whatever!
It's cheap and within walking distance of Skibo.
(For more information, call 422-6547)
COLLEGE I.D. NIGHT
FROM 9:30 to 11:30 EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT
and also l:30-3:30pm EVERY WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON
The special rate is $ 1.50 for admission 
and $ 1.50 for skate rental.
TOTAL OUTLAY: $3.00
CALL 422-6547 FOR A COMPLETE 
LISTING OF RINK HOURS.
n

---------------------------------------------------

M,G MSAcSo v dSAoGinG aGtteo v lm EepGysGA lwwm5R
Ramen appears frequently in student diet
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
Dont laugh, weve all done it. In chunks, globs, 
and cups. At one point or another, just about every 
student ends up raising the RSQ  the Ramen 
Status Quo  and it keeps on a-risin daily.
Theres nothing wrong with it. What could be 
wrong with a food that never molds, never gets 
stale, and is made simply by adding hot water and 
leaving it there for awhile? And parents love it, 
because they can send it in a care package and not 
worry about whether it will spoil or bruise, the 
usual demise of the obligatory package of Triscuit 
crackers. The kids know the difference, though, 
and are too wise to eat the Triscuits, knowing that 
those intricate webs of fiber are laced with real 
nutrition. Hence, the only food left for their widen
ing voids, or stomachs, is the godly ramen.
I remember fondly my ramen awakenings. My 
older sister used to make them and act as if she 
were pulling some divine food from the heavens, 
just for her afternoon snack. She would never give 
me any, though, and she never let me in on the 
secret that ramen is made in minutes, not hours. 
Well, when my parents went macrobiotic, I was 
supplied with about, oh, 300 million of them a 
month, just as something I could eat, instead of 
fasting for fear of the infernal wheat-berry-nutgravel subsistence of the typical natural foods diet. 
A chronic addiction resulted, and the rest is his
tory.
In fact, I rather enjoy them ramen noodes- some
times with the veggies, sometimes without, some
times with broth, sometimes drained (leaving the 
boullion to flavor only the noodles). At one point I 
saw the people at the Spirit office in the Naval 
Center cooking up a whole ton of them, leaving a 
sky-high pile of boxes in the hall. You can walk into 
virtually any dorm room and find the famed warehouse-sized box (which costs something in the 
neighborhood of five dollars) hiding underneath 
someones bed.
The typical ramen comes in one of two forms: the 
first is a chunk, wrapped in cellophane, with a foil 
packet of boullion inclusive; the second is a cup in 
which the noodles, boullion, and multiple freezedried objects-such as chunks of chicken, com, 
shrimp, and peas- are all contained and awaiting 
water.
Both have their advantages; I know some people 
who just eat the raw chunks like candy bars (not 
that I would do that myself), and the cups pack a 
surprisingly good meal without the hassle of pre
paring other veggies and meat.
But the main point of both is this: They are cheap. 
Dirt cheap. So cheap, in fact, that even our over
priced student stores cant bring themselves to 
charge more than a mere 95 cents per cup.
If you go to your neighborhood Giant Eagle on 
any given day, however, you can pick up four or five 
chunks for about a dollar, or as many cups at the 
still-thrifty rate of about 40 cents a cup. I get them 
through Sams, the big warehouse chain which 
sells huge amounts of everything.
Ramen is an unshakable staple in the student 
culture and will probably be here until we get Star 
Trek technology that allows us to have fat-free 
steak and potatoes in seconds.
To make sure, I sent a poll out to various graffiti/ 
discussion boards on the net, and got a fair amount 
of responses, despite a complaint or two that ramen 
had nothing to do with the subject of the board. 
Hey, theres no graffiti.discussion.noodles; what 
do you expect? Anyway, the results are here. Many 
thanks to those who participated and to the many 
bboards who tolerated the surveys presence. Until 
next time, remember the ramen!
THE RAMEN SURVEY
(1) What kind of Ramen do you eat?
A. Nissin (16%)
B. Campbells (42%)
C. Food Club (0%)
D. Other (Specify) (42%)
Among those cited were Maruchan, Shin Ramen,
Kimchi Bowl, Gae-J ang, and Kung Fu. Wow, there 
are lots of brands. Who knew?
(2) In what form do you buy it?
A. Packaged(40%)
B. Cup(30%)
C. Either (specify which you buy more) 
(30%20% who preferred packaged, 10% for cups.)
And why not? Packaged ramen is far cheaper, 
and for an economy food, the key word is cheap, 
right?
(3) How do you like it?
(i). A. With broth (72%)
Mostly the answer was that its cheap, hot, fast, 
and simply there, but the award for best answer 
goes to Michael Floggo the Stupid Schwem: Its 
stick-to-it-iveness. It sticks to walls, floors, faces, 
and ribs, almost as well as Food Club Each Slice 
Wrapped American Processed Pasturized Cheese 
Food.
(7) Tell us your ramen fantasy.
I really asked for it with this one, so here goes:
My ramen fantasy involves 20 pounds of Ramen, 
Lake Erie and Mr. Yoshida ... one night I would 
ccensored by CMU Computing Services> said 
Schwem.
Evan Shechter/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Ramen noodles, though tasty and convenient, do not always make for the neatest meal.
B. Without Broth (28%)
(ii.) A.With extra veggies (55%)
B. Without extra veggies (45%)
(iii.) A. Chicken flavor (23%)
B. Beef flavor (18%)
C. Oriental flavor (13%)
D. Shrimp flavor (18%)
E. Garden/Spring Vegetable(13%)
F. Other (specify) (13%)
Most of the people who marked other followed 
it with Spicy, and one person reminded me of a 
flavor called Chicken Sesame, which is like 
chicken ramen with a sesame oil packet included.
(iv.)A. Hot (91%)
B. Cold (0%)
C. Lukewarm (0%)
D. Other (specify) (9% for uncooked)
Everyone seems to like it nice and hot. Hey, 
whats nicer than a hot, steaming bowl of soup?
(4) What (if anything) do you add to your ramen?
I got a lot of really cool answers to this one; many 
sauces, among them soy, tobasco, and, of course, 
the ever-present tomato-based sauce.
Also, Peter Bateman suggests the use of raw 
cabbage, because, When done right, the raw cab
bage adds just the right amout of crunchiness to 
the Ramen.
(5) How much ramen do you eat, would you say?
Its really hard to peg here, but the majority of 
those who responded to this one do Ramen between 
two and six times a week, with one eating them just 
the way I used to like em, two at a time!
One respondant said, at one time last year I ate 
at least one brick every day; now its more like one 
a month ... but just wait until money gets tight!
(6) What is your favorite attribute of Ramen 
noodles?
Im on this deserted island with just 15-20 
beautiful women and a years supply of Ramen. 
The rest is private, said Peter Bateman.
That it actually tastes good! said Prashanthi 
Reddy.
Well, thats the Ramen Survey. I think weve all 
learned a little more about ourselves and each 
other through this experience, and I think we can 
finally be open about our ramen habits. For good, 
bad, or indifference, ramen appears to be a staple 
in the college students diet. Good day, and happy 
eating.
Kids show 
hurts brain
SHOW, from page L2
upon these big-ass robots and they instantly 
appear out of the wasteland conveniently lo
cated next to the white suburbia with all the 
park land. I wonder if theres a huge hangar 
underneath the ground where they keep these 
things. And who finds time to wash and fix 
them? After every battle theyre fire-scarred 
and dented. Do they employ a giant staff? What 
are their benefits?
Then the robots transform into the big-ass 
Megazord ready to kick some alien-monstergrown-250-times-normal-size butt. First the 
monster gets the upper hand and starts slam
ming the Megazord on top of various buildings. 
This is all meaningless to the people of the city 
 they just find someplace to take cover and 
wait it out. But what if I had an apartment 
there?
Me: Ahhh! No! My apartments been de
molished!.
Other person: You get used to it.
Me: No wonder the rents were so damn 
expensive...shouldve bought a house in subur
bia with all the park land.
Then the Megazord by some miracle gets up, 
that crazy theme song starts playing, and the 
Megazord starts beating the tar out of the huge 
monster, destroying several more buildings in 
the process. Then they find the one weakness in 
the monster and impale it with a giant rod. The 
monster explodes, and the day is saved once 
again. Well, maybe not the day, because when
ever the Megazord is fighting the monster the 
sky instantly goes dark gray.
Finally, the Rangers unmorph and go back to 
school, where they laugh off the whole silly 
incident. Meanwhile, Zed is cursing his ill luck 
and plotting revenge. I wonder, with all the 
technology he has, how can he manage to have 
the mind of a pine cone?
By day a Physics/CS major and English 
minor, by night a supervillain in training, Tom 
Harper still has to manage the intricacies of 
electric circuits and magnetic fields. But when 
he does, look out world! Hahahaha.......
HOW TO GET AHEAD IN COLLEGE:
i 1 i  1-
Wherever you need to go in Allegheny County, our buses,  and Monongahela Incline 
can get you therel For the routes and times best for you, pick up a free System Map and 
schedules at our Downtown Service Center at 534 Smithfield Street, or call: 442-2000.
Please mail request for more information to Marketing Department, PAT, 2235 Beaver Ave., Pgh., PA 15233
NAME
ADDRESS
CITY
REQUEST:
STATEZIP
WHERE DID YOU SEE THIS AO?
The Best Wav All Around!
When You're Considering an
Internship in Information 
Technology,
Consider One More Thing.
Consider the investment banking firm that is 
an international leader in virtually every field 
of investment and finance. Where leading 
edge information technology is at the center 
of the firm's growth and success. Where you 
are given the chance to participate in a chal
lenging internship position which may include 
developing, maintaining and monitoring glo
bal computer systems and telecommunication 
networks. Where interns get to work along
side the most highly accomplished informa
tion technology and investment banking pro
fessionals. And consider the firm where an 
emphasis on teamwork, individual responsi
bility, creativity and initiative means that in
terns play an integral role in a dynamic global 
financial organization.
In short, consider the 
Information Technology Department at Goldman Sachs.
We will be interviewing on-campus on 
December 5, 1994. Please submit your 
resume to the Career Placement Office
Students majoring in telecommunications, computer scicncc, MIS, 
math or engineering, or who have taken computer-related courses 
and have a strong knowledge of "C" language, PC Workstations 
and LAN arc welcome.
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local law.
(iol(lin;iii.SilCllS

---------------------------------------------------

,--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1
j MACARONI AU FROMAGE |
(EAT WITH GUSTO FOR ABOUT SW PER SERVING)
2 cups macaroni (pinwheels are fun) 1 cup milk
1 cup sharp cheddar (grated) 3 tbs flour
1/2 stick butter ' 1 tsp pepper
1 tsp Worcestershire (if you like) 1 tsp salt
Cook macaroni in 5 cups salted, boiling water for 15
minutes or until al dente. Drain. In a separate pot, melt 
butter and mix in flour over low heat. Then, stir in milk 
until smooth. Add cheese, salt, pepper and Worcestershire. 
Stir well. Smother macaroni. Serves 4.
Note: For your nutritional convenience, Citibank 
Classic cards are accepted at over 11 million 
locations, including grocery stores.
crrtBAN<Q~ - ' 1 C
WERE LOOKING OUT FOR YOU."
To apply, call I-800-CITIBANK.

---------------------------------------------------

COMICS
Calvin and Hobbes
U\ SUSIE. VtUKT WO TOJ
drl.D ivr en.so Sptc w
f, SWISS CHEESE WO KEV3JP SMOTICH.
nby Bill Watterson
RELAX, SV)S\E. I BOOCMT IME. CAfETERUkumcw mt
IT APPEARS TO BE. 
OSNR. BV/TTS IN 
A Gf^LSTONE 
SAVJCE.
\o['J Bl
ARE W AU. R\GHT? WWW'S TUE MATTER.? WU1 ARE'iOJ cm.\KG?
I TOLD THE TEACHER I HAP K) <30 TC TUE BATHROOM. QUICK., WUATS U+7 ?
I WONDER VlH'f MAN YttS PUTONEARTU. NUATS COR PURPOSE? Wii ARE VIE WERE?
IT'S SAD HCM SOME PEOPLE CANT HANDLE A LITTLE MARIETA
I WAS READING ABOUT HOW C.OONTIESS SPEOES Af BEING PUSHED TOWARD EXTINCION B1 MATAS DESTRUCTION OF FORESTS.
SOMETIMES I THINK TUE SUREST SIGN TUAT INTELLIGENT LIFE EXISTS ELSEWHERE IN THE UNWERSE IS TUAT NONE OF \T HAS TRIED TO CONTACT US.
A UTTLE Y WE TIGERS,CALL IT LIGUTHING QUICK REFLEXES.
Whats a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
Hi we'r-+kiM as^r/ey 
Would yf -  
partit
I ^ I O'
Would yoi> ca.re+o '  
----"-ipocte? y'
)m<t ly M. 6<,UL,JJ
1 firTe rreS Conrea<&>,..
^ MOfTJUteJp ^
IVAY,,,
I Fu(i.(.y SupPodj TU3fc 
iTy owmc-il's 
Pl-AfJ T OUTCAwJ
SM FACE' To- All. 
^l-^LS AMD
h.SfSm,gU
- -A.;
i> : 6^w5.
ct(r yuhobT ont-'/
COTu/HO^,
U>|LU 
t/AL^
/l)M.TH pouce WlU, I
V_ A^V PMiZ-THg^
Wr K-ia- fbjPi- pa Pue ) 
l3trs >?e/>ue:
&V 6TTtt)6> 
TH5 lVB/VPoju^ i
fPpP b-uH SrtfiBTS 
C>ar<- ^iTiv/o.
W*>'
S>Ap0t<
/VMT'ni'
You
N'lUv/ ForumS 
-P
W&,
Swffer 
re5p p---------------------------------------------------

DoonesburyBY GARRY TRUDEAU
HEY, NONE. OF THEM IN JA/l, YET. JU9T MARVELOUS. GOTTA BE PROUP.
SURE, GOV. CHILES SIGNET?HIS PEATH HJAFRANT, EUT IF JE3 BUSH HAP BEEN IN CHARGE, 
HE WOULPHAVE EXECUTE?HIM ON THE SPOT, PROBABLY . USING HIS BARE HANPS! f
ZONK, I GOTTA GO INTO
ptsuDipsive nTFa Pl Mg TlCchfi
I'VE BEEN PRETTY UNPE&PEP, BUT I GUEGG I'LL HAVE TO _ GO UJTTH KENNEW, ^ mis, SONNY BONOB ANPACSOF_
BASS! \
PO YOU WANT TO VOTE FOR? HMM..LET ME;i) SEE...
 FOR BEST NEUJ BAN P. OH, WAIT, THEY'RE NOT AMERICAN..
A OKAY. PONT il FORGET ID V CAST MY s~ ") VOTE. /
w\t,:sJWbpjms THE MOOD OF OURFEL- 101VWTER5?
irmsm/RP.  
APPARENTLY HJE 
PREFERRED CANPIPATES (OHO(ERE 
imiAUHEP.
,-r UM...GREAT. Z0NK- 60 THE1 VOTE MAS MUCHAPPRE- BOOPSIE? CJATEP.
IN FACT. BEING OUALh FtEP SORT OF P/SQUAURBP YOU. KIND OF A FORREST GUMP THING -  THE MORE CLUELESS, THE BETTER.!
YOU'RE KIPPING! WHY KJASNTI APPROACHED?
UJELL.HJEALREADYHADHUF-FINGTON.
The Adventures ofJobMan in the 200th Decade #5 Christopher P. Nelson
Hyperintelligent, stupendous. You look like 
the kind of person we want, JobMan...
We can offer you slave labor at minimum wage 
with no hope of promotion.
-AttttM- r SEE vou
FlGrUKEP OUT HOW 
TO USE THE CofYUmbilical- ColRp
*15
irM
'X * "/.'/V Ait/ <3>
aI TheL 
drsrh ipS 
mtOWOl Co vou?j
---------y----------

---------------------------------------------------

en amoAix^e. iviBy GARY LARSON
O^CE. UPOM A Tl^E THERE 
LWfcp THREE Qoas AMD 
THEiJ Cia MAGICAL P<K*>R.
OdE Boy sfeda cy AsBtG 
AS THE OCEAM AM? couuo 
CA*i A LOT A JO A LOT wo 
A LOT A^D COULO Pfi.OiJM 
THE vOHOLE tiTy.
THE OTHER 603 Couup EVEfJ HEAR. A BOMwy Msrma c lSo MpIS mCC[]THE Boys 
FUM 
/WVEMTUfiES 
\M THE CAVE
9 WIU- 6C0EJ|J6 
ILLUSTRATED 8y ^ATVam*- V, y*<\h- BEoti*\
THE OTHEfi. Boy CAM OO
rJOTHif^G. .om fcdFt TMi^G 
om suc Do r, OftWE A
TRUCK. rTHE BoyS'MA^ES LOEfcE CLoaey  he drov/e -me 
TRUCK. CHUMB'j HAS
A fat TUM^y amo Goes 
'* 6000A ooOA 0000"- 
AMD JOE HE VaJEMT iivI 
THE CAVE. f
THESE oyS UVEO l*J A#J OCO 
CuP80AO AMO AM EUIU 
VdlTAftO S6MTTU&MTO A 
CAv/E OP DoMOERS, WHERE. 
HE THROuJo THEM OOoOfO \ 
WTO A Pit.___\J \(i
IN THE PIT U)6fi TREASURES AtfOTirty WiJOc*OS. AMD i 
JOE FOOrfp A MAGIC LAMP. n
AMP THE OTHERT^O Boy 9 
WERE CLOGGED. JOU VsxfPup 
lOHAT CLOGGED MEANS? I T 
cmuc, THfc'j fecrr ATEM By 
ft FAAGVCAL- lAniygfd DRA6o*l.
AMO JOE ftoBGEO-DEO THE 
LAMP ArJQ A S16 G IAMT &E 
POPPEO OUT. THE 60^1 ReACHEP 
OUT HIS ARM? To GRAB THE 
GEM VE'S BEARD AtfO THEy 
VdHooSHED Ol/TOFTHE CAVEFree, n ^rzr -
Cn9V THEy CAME TO A 
CAsnE SHAPED UKE A STAR, 
COHERE AMEWL YbVnryrY 
LIVED. HE HAD A BIG HAoJfc 
FACE AMD AM EyEfiAU. OM 
HIS HAMD. AMD HE HAD A 
kuRRf. Lr.o AsnoGecAfc
THE MAD SciEWTisT SAW 
THE Boy VJlTH HIS MAWICVWG 
6LAS5 AHO Ht LAOGHED. AMo 
THEM HE TuOriED 1MT0 A 
&IAMT SMAKE AMO HE Ateo 
THE LAMP
Whoa! Here we go again!... Pony Express 
Rider Walks into Workplace, Starts 
Shooting Every Horse in Sight.'
The curse of mad scientists block
&0T THE Boy STAB8ED Hin ftvGHT IMS1OE HIS TOMMy AMp HE60T A BIG 600-600 AMD HE FELL TO THE GRounW
QtAV- ~ & cl
BoT THE Boy TftVEO TO SToP 
THE SMAKE FROMEATiMG 
THE LAMP. 6ot A GtA-OT 
TEMTACLE GOEu) AMO 6&uj . 
FROM THE CASTLE A lOD 
tamgledthe 8oy anc? 
MOMM\ED His SDOO.D.
T HE PEOPLE UFTEP THE 
Boy OP. HE VJ AS TME 6tATirt 
Boy IM THE uJORLp, CELLED 
AllTHE MA61CAL Boys.
STHAT THEEMO?
/AMD THE Boys 
'MAOGHTy LITTLE 
BAD 006 'ZERO 
lOASTORMED_> 
IMTO A fJljV AJmPK\ti.J <Cjr
^k^ynowt/ouVrnoto 
mq secfeVo^in, o^jf witVi t/cXJfS^CJkzTz d?5 bcojin,
Look. You had five bones, right? Your friend Zooky 
comes over, stays awhile, then leaves. Now you 
have four bones, right?... You dont have to 
oe a 'Lassie' to figure this one out."As QwSmok\\ cVn'vV wm ftoterAs tofe.ojor\r\e 
<owfl\ bt| o \j\c\oo s 
of s+feeim\we5.
y^'^rW^ ($WF \ WO'S VcxVers \A
V.U Im ^ ix. miH\orvxvte
L/fl pW^boqbecom V\isi*. 
V Hec\l4a tTaiv\ed
Alii/Sl *'e  b<Hfer ftx/ef\ge.
Mostoirvj tVi arts ofSciart, \ coY>stfuctEid 
jeV podf.
^ CnMrtcVs ^ iupcvs+'iirioys,
c~
Smo^V vrvseoT 1"WV flttj It 
Hvfou^K iJiAdatj, I 
luKipped up o-costuiMe v: 
ani tewne ttie jopcnf.cse
Beette !
ii> V*ou> lbcxm.*H\e 
^Cvm.w^iV<xr of
WrvL tenate 4rvW^ J J
The life and times of Captain HazelwoodWhere the deer and the antelope work
ipn \/i^> kMe
m_
3*1 MATt" 
G(ke*JirJ6
Ufi /M
HfeLL
RftCE boo" 
FMTHE, JItE CEEAM ;Okbi/,so rmtjbe
I filobad o.|rH\e.
by Mark Kantrowitz
In a laddergram, the object 
is to transform the word 
on the top rung into the 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
the other letters. For 
Sample, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
three steps: LEAD. LOAD, 
GOAD, GOLD.
SOHRV*V idSVia-TS AU.T116
ICt CtltAM. But it 13 tJlCSTD Kt You&STioMS exencias.
Copyright  1994 by Mark Kantrowitz. All rights reserved.
4V

---------------------------------------------------

Student Senate f 94-14: 
ftesolutipn on bboard censorship 
Tuesday, Hwember 8,1994
il#f
hereas,
^-jf/e admintetwiioji & i/utml deaMon, to. cetuoa e/ectwsiic aeio,' p,zo.upi ion c made /uutt/u, mit/iaut oAtat/iiru/ an exlevna/ e&p&rf /egud o/iMiiosi, and coddoxd oJjd/uu^ //ie, opdnionA de campon, cosnnumi^,
Bud whereas,
J/ir ~lhn an/ip j C/Mwnt policy i, zeodui.iioyp a/ld doed noi penult atude/il input tvi/Ji zeppozd to. tdio 
oaAie e/edxosiic neiDA
Bud whereas,
tf/de dude/il dox/i/ Jb. oxi/xax/ed at idu ad cenAo/uJup,, and Jb. de opxmosi Aal cen&oyc&dip, n an^- 
-b intoJewd/e,WAS71
Bud whereas,
1 Jtie ituo/ent /loop U concerned /An/ dtia ad may. tend io. /a/ozc iid.i o/ inducni/nifuite cenjOM/up.,
Dud whereas,
t'Jtie deni tiodp demand Hi ' l/iiiiir:.,i/p,.cp'iiizii/i/,'t'd zip/iji of academic /ziedani.
it it resolned that,
(2^7 eiandiny. committee mill Ac convened undea /fie (Sfaz de ^^i&ddenl ojf de ^l/nineadl^, d^- <j/uda/f, (^HoMemder, //, 1994, in o/cdea to, adde&A, Mue&,p&daining, to, cojnpddlei daied codnmanicaliodu,
committee iadl cosidd dude/il&, Jciaiddf, memdeui, and aflmemdeM, eacd endued tai/l de cdoAe/i 
dif idem mp.edw.e ^oMemin^, dox/icA.
^Jde pdwpn&e de cosnmiiiee tadl de to, emote dial eacd de a^OAe/nenJwvied^zoddp,& u didd/, 'cepjie-- 
Aenied in any, decuiosi dn A adminidmiiosi dal mad/, inyyun^e osz an indioidual& rig/ii to, de feeedosn 
&f>ecd, a/id/oA, dii/dea acceAA- toy e/eclzosiic neia&tadicd ate nol deemed to, de in aio./a/iodi, a/i 
af>,pdicad/e load, date, andfederal -tJ\b2
Be it further resotned that,
^.Jfie ad/niniiiwtwjt a./// teaem /fie dectuo/i to. eli/nmeite efectwmic niM'.zp,'0/jp.\ /.'lom tido/i.id aawiceA and, 
mild de adoiiemenl d.oJ.d ide afodtementiosied covrunMee and a e^al edcp/d, mdl co./ne to.\ an eyailad/e 
AoJddlioii. u'/ddcd, Laid addexe to, de af>,pJicad/e oxx/J, dxile and fed&ial aim iodide nuii/dai/tuig, /nasci/nzim 
acceAA to, e/eciwsiic nedd2A^A.onp,A.
lurt Mmm Chair, Mudmt huh

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Alloy deserves respect
By NATALIE WOCHELE
Tartan Staffwriter
Dance Alloy, under the artistic 
director Mark Taylor, explores 
the ideas of home and our feel
ings towards it, through his two 
works, Devotion and Safe Har
bor. The portion of Safe Har
bor divides itself into the 
segments Abode, Erect,
Safe House, and Dwell.
These four sections exam
ine the fears, love, comfort,
I and distress found in our 
! homes.
Abode is the opening 
i work which gives the foun
dation to the other three 
segments. In this first piece 
the dancers revive the idea 
of family unity and the ties 
|. that keep them together.
. Followed by this strength, 
jj the next piece, Erect, 
deals with the building 
I blocks, the structure that holds 
and maintains a family. With 
some humor and slapstick, the 
dancers plunge into the depth of 
Safe House.
Actually, this does not repre
sent the security, but the danger 
and conflicts that shape the fam
ily framework. Through move
ments of embrace and leaps, each 
dancer becomes a sort of sponge,
drawing from each others emo
tions and energy. At this sections 
transition, one dancer, a victim 
of this passionate web, is left alone 
and lifeless on stage, to be later 
revived by the members of his 
kin. This culminates into Dwell, 
a revival from death, in which all 
the dancers participate. The fam Michael Friedlander 
Ouch! Lori Brungard and Dennis Birkes twist, 
turn, leap, and embrace in Safe Harbor.
ily union materializes itself 
through this dance, and the danc
ers make it feasible for this em
bodiment by revealing that it is 
through oneself that one reaches 
the safe harbor.
Devotion, the transitional seg
ment of Safe Harbor, illustrates 
the misguided passions and loves 
of individuals. The obsessions, 
furies, and the many relation
ships mingle as each dancer runs 
away from each other, off of and 
onto the stage. This series con
tinues and concludes in tension, 
and as the curtains and lights 
come on, the viewer is still caught 
up in the feelings of thrill and 
numbness.
Obviously, I was stunned by 
the extraordinary perfor
mance. The Dance Alloy is 
much more than just a 
stroke of genius; it em
bodies the true emotions 
of safe harbor and devo
tion and translates it into 
luminous and beautiful 
human expression. I was 
held to my chair at Fulton 
Theater, almost unable to 
stand up from the emo
tional impact of that pre
miere.
No one will ever believe 
the movements and the 
picture the dancers depict 
on stage unless they see this 
exchange live. It is not easy to 
describe the liveliness and en
ergy these dancers transmit to 
the public every time they per
form. Such discipline, such cre
ativity, commitment, and 
beauty transmitted by an expe
rienced dance company, de
serves more than just applause, 
it demands special recognition.
Settie plays folk rock
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Assistant Diversions 
Editor
Artist: Settie
Album: Bob Bit the Fisherman 
Suggested Track: Love Is 
King
Edie Brickell and the New Bo
hemians split up about a year 
ago, but apparently, Edie is do
ing just fine. She's with a new 
band, now, following up her Paul 
Simon produced Picture Perfect 
Morning with a more rockish 
approach, in the form of a band 
called Settie....
Oh, whoops. The woman sit
ting on a rock, withtatteredjeans 
that are covering spread knees, 
against the backdrop of a field 
and pictures of stars and moons 
(resist the urge to say hearts, 
horseshoes, clovers, etc, please) 
gracing the back cover is  de
spite a deadpan resemblance  
not Edie, but Lisette Bellnier, 
lead singer for Settie, a new trio 
from Wilbraham, (yes, Wilbraham) Massachusetts.
bandmate Brian Fellows, who 
seems to have written all the 
songs, and played just about ev
ery electric/percussive instru
ment on this album.
Theres still room for another 
wayfaring musician, though, 
filled up by Dave Brooks, the' 
acoustic guitarist of the group.
Rayrord -Glasgow
Settle's groove reigns over 
whatever faults they may have.
Its a good sound this group 
has; the mix of acoustic and elec
tric instruments, as well as the 
sparse occasional effects on 
Lisettes voice, is excellently and 
subtlely blended into one mass of 
Actually, she's more like Edie- rock.
Brickell would be if she rocked The lyrics, well, thats another' 
out a bit, and threw in a little story, and, pretty much my only 
more soul. BeBnier lendsanew problem with this band. Its not 
intensity to the compositions of that the themes expressed in the
album are bad, its just that 
Fellows structures seem to per
petuate the myth that a lyri
cist must have words that 
rhyme in order to have a good 
lyric, and predictable phrases 
like Wh at about the dinasours/ 
Now Im getting really bored 
make me reel in the pain of the 
mediocrity that these schemes 
can sustain.
In any case, the music just 
bloody rocks. As soon as the 
bassline to Love is King 
pumps up, and right up until 
the improvised (and rather 
strange) aeapella rhymer 
What?, Settie rocks, allow
ing one to enjoy Bob Bit the 
Fisherman through the lyrical 
rut that it tends to fall into.
So, if youre looking for some 
nice, rockin', easy-going, laidback pop, check out Settie. If 
youre a nitpicker, though, 
theyre just not your band. And 
for Settie, thats the way it 
should be.
Before you run out to buy the 
album, why dontyougiue Settie 
a listen this upcoming week
end. They'll be performing on 
campus Saturday night in the 
Student Center Drill Deck at 
8pm.
Symphony does Wagners music justice
By ADAM KLIVANS
Tartan Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Symphony gave one of 
its subscription concerts on Friday night 
at Heinz Hall. This concert was the 
second installment of its three year 
project to perform the entirety of Rich
ard Wagners epic music-drama Tristan 
und Isolde.
World famous Wagnerian soprano 
Hildegard Behrens made her Pittsburgh 
Symphony debut along 
with renowned bass 
PaulPlishka, tenor Ren 
Kollo and mezzo-soprano Cornelia Kallisch. Also on the pro
gram was Samuel 
Barbers extremely 
popular post romantic 
work, Adagio for 
Strings.
Few musical events 
could capture my inter
est and enthusiasm as 
easily as this concert did.
I eagerly awaited the ex
perience of listening to 
the worlds greatest 
singers perform argu
ably the most important 
Romantic opera ever written. This event, 
however, was preceded by an inappro
priately placed Adagio for Strings.
Although the Pittsburgh Symphony 
successfully captured the essence of this 
work, it simply was not a suitable pre
lude to the rest of the program. Conduc
tor Lorin Maazel led the symphony in an 
extremely delicate performance, bring
ing out all of the subtleties hidden in the 
work.
With the help of Concertmaster Andres 
Cardenes masterful violin playing and 
Principal Violist Randolph Kellys stun
ning expressiveness, Maazel revealed 
the true essence of this work. It is this 
essence, the solemn relinquishment of 
hope, which provided a poor atmosphere 
for the main attraction.
Though a wonderful work, this piece 
emotionally drains the listener into a 
state of brooding.
The excitement and anticipation of 
the work to come, however, prevented 
me from strongly interacting with the 
adagio, and as the elegant sound of the 
strings slowly retired, I prepared myself 
for Wagners masterpiece.
Act II of Wagners Tristan und Isolde 
opens with Isoldes servant girl Bragne 
warning Isolde not to meet her lover 
Tristan. Behrens, singing the role of 
Isolde, succeeded at something rather 
amazing. During intermission, the au
dience was delivered the disappointing 
news that Behrens had been suffering 
through a cold. Few sopranos could even 
attempt to perform one of the most chal
lenging roles in opera while suffering 
from an illness. Only someone as'experienced and remarkable as Hildegard ate, graceful love duet between Tristan 
Beherens could actually pull it off. Al- and Isolde. As one of the greatest mothough one could a notice a few subtle, ments in all of Western music, the
differences in her singing, Behrens man
aged to recreate the impulsive, lovestruck Isolde with all of the emotional 
power and warmth needed to do so. 
Even more impressive was the depth 
and beauty of mezzo-soprano Cornelia 
Kallischs portryal of Bragne.
Pittsburgh Symphony revealed quali
ties of beauty and subtlety during this 
duet which I had never before heard 
them express.
Principal Oboist Cynthia Koledo 
DeAlmeida was especially notable in 
her ability to capture the most delicate
PSO
Her technically superior singing and moments of passion with her extremely 
warm tone provided the perfect comple- sensuous playing. Overall, this was
one of the Pittsburgh 
Symphonys finest moments.
The serenity of Scene II 
quickly gave way to the pow
erful drama of Scene III as 
Melot, played by Jon Fredric 
West, and King Marke, 
played by Paul Plishka, find 
Tristan and Isolde together. 
Expecting Isolde to be his 
bride, King Marke cannot 
believe the sight he now be
holds. Plishka, one of the 
worlds most famous and tal
ented basses, dominated the 
concert hall with the sheer 
power of his presence. West 
displayed some very admi
rable singing, but it was 
Plishka who commanded at
tention in the last scene.
Though not a very large role, Plishka 
sang with unequaled dramatic depth 
and nobility. His ability to shift from 
the most quiet, subtle passages to the 
deepest and boldest of accusations 
made King Markes threats against 
Tristan seem utterly realistic. The wild 
symphonic flares enhanced this mo
ment, and Maazel showed off his abil
ity to master some of the most'difficult 
orchestral passages in the repertoire.
As Tristan is about to attack 
Melot, Act II ends with a 
dark, powerful orchestral fi
nale.
Few events in music are 
this stunning, and as I spoke 
with Plishka backstage af
ter the event, he commented 
on this topic. Theres noth
ing like it, he said, and he 
further commented on the 
difficulty of pouring ones 
heart out to the audience. 
It is this idea, the near 
impossibility of truly ex
pressing the complex emo
tions surrounding love and 
death, which the Pittsburgh 
spend the night in a profound moment of Symphony, Maazel, Behrens, and 
passion and love. As Tristan, tenor Plishka attempted to accomplish on
Rene Koflo(Left) and Hiidegarde Behrens play the respective 
roles of Tristan and Iseult in Wagners Tristan und Isolde.
ment to Isoldes anxious persona. While 
Behrens and Kallisch astounded the 
audience, Maazel and the orchestra de
livered a powerful dramatic impetus 
which sustained a high level of intensity 
throughout Act II. Maazel led the or
chestra through numerous difficult pas
sages with great control and finesse, 
and his understanding of the rather com
plicated dynamics was infallible.
As Scene II begins, Tristan arrives to 
be reunited with Isolde, and the two
Ben Spiegel
Musical Director Lorin Maazel led the Symphony 
through another beautiful performance.
Ren Kollo proved himself to be a Wag
nerian singer of the highest order. Kollo 
sustained a vigorously dramatic yet sen
sitive tone as he nobly conveyed both the 
strength and vulnerability of Tristans 
character. The conviction of Kollos sing
ing combined with Behrens heavenly 
voice successfully captured the passionFriday night.
In this respect, it is difficult to say 
whether the performance truly suc
ceeded. I can, however, definitively say 
that this concert both emotionally and 
intellectually stirred everyone in the 
audience  a rare triumph in todays 
musical scene.
Miracle misses divinity
By RICHARD SMOLEN
Tartan Copy Manager
To one familiar with CMU graduate 
playwright Sybil Berrys past works  
Public Images, Private Lives, about black 
reactions to the Clarence Thomas-Anita 
Hill hearings, and The Sable Skin of the 
Hottentot Venus, about the uprooting of 
blacks from their native Africa  The 
Miracle Church is immediately recog
nizable as a Sybil Berry play. It has the 
same political overtones as Public Im
ages and is similar in theme to Sable 
Skin. The Miracle Church is a perfect
through her superficiality, but by the 
end of the play, Odetta is redeemed as 
the wise mother  one of several wise, 
older characters in the play  and the1 
children end up looking foolish and im
pulsive.
The same parent-child relationships 
exist in the relationship of the miracle : 
church preachers to their parishioners. : 
The play springs to life in the two church, 
scenes as all the hypocrisies of Chris
tianity, especially money and sex, are. 
exposed. Preacher Aubry Boss (Sala 
Udin) lusts after money as a pretense for 
moving his congregation to a larger buildplay in subject matter to open the 1994- ing, but he really thirsts for power. More
1995 season for 
Kuntu Repertory 
Theatre, an African 
American student/ 
community theater 
affiliated with the 
University of Pitts
burgh that launched 
the career of prizewinning playwright 
August Wilson. The 
Miracle Church also 
marks Sybil Berrys 
directorial debut.
But there are nu
merous reasons why 
playwrights not 
named Mamet 
shouldnt direct thenown plays, and The 
Miracle Church il
lustrates many of Helen M.Worsing
these. Another direc- church performed by Kuntu Repertory, tor might have seen 
more variety and richness in the play;
Berry promotes her message at the ex
pense of telling the story. She loses much 
of the stage area with an ineffective 
ground plan. And Berrys actors often 
lapse into stereotypes. For minor char
acters this is fine, but when a complex 
character such as Odetta (Debbie Star
ling Sims) is portrayed as several unreblatant is the sat
ire of the young 
reverend Willy 
Deake (Leo 
Beatty), the prea
cher who uses his 
sexual appeal to 
fill the collection 
plate. The situa
tion is hilarious at 
first: Willy Deake 
doesnt stand be
hind a pulpit; 
rather, he sits on a 
throne and has 
rose petals scat
tered at his feet. 
The congre-gants, 
all young women, 
all bring him gifts, 
all decked out in 
their Sunday best, 
except that hem
lines are hiked up 
and necklines are lowered.
But in its satire of the sexual politics of 
religion, the play degenerates into the 
raunchy, sexual humor of TV shows like 
Sinbad and The Fresh Prince. The 
problem is that were not laughingai the 
characters, were laughing with them. It 
is almost as if this lowbrow behavior is 
as acceptable in real life as it is on TV.
lated caricatures during the course of We laugh when one church-goer wiggles
the play  religious hypocrite, busi
nesswoman, single mother  the result 
is a seriously uneven performance, as 
we are unsure who she really is and 
what she really wants.
The miracle churches of the plays title 
are a row of small churches in a lowerclass black neighborhood. Odetta sells 
concessions (hot dogs, etc.) to the con
gregation for a living, while she plans to 
strike it rich in the stock market  
despite the fact that she cant tell a 
divider from a dividend. Meanwhile, 
Odettas children, Odell (Chappale Burher rear end to catch the reverends eye, 
and another casts a suggestive glance. 
We laugh, but we should be appalled. 
Even Odetta and Odelia lust after Deake. 
The play doesnt lift us out of their situ
ation; it lowers us into it.
Only in Act II does an attempt at a 
solution become clear. The real problem, 
apparently, is that Christianity was 
imposed on blacks  that is, African 
Americans. So as we near the end of the 
play, Odettas family dresses in tradi
tional African garb and performs a ritual, 
reminiscent of an exorcism, on the hapton) and Odelia (Tahirah Turner and less Willy Deake; all this neatly brings 
Leslie Burrell), have big plans of their the family together.
own. Odell worships Louis Farakkhan 
and dreams of a great Islam nation, 
while Odelia goes to business school and 
dreams of Wall Street.
Both children think they know more 
than their mother does; they do see
In her notes to the play, Sybil Berry 
says, ... we have nowhere to go but 
forward. But that is a rather vague 
statement. Most of the play suggests 
that it is necessary to go backward, to 
Please See KUNTU, page 11
in

---------------------------------------------------

5-2M,G MSAcSo v dSAoGinG aGtteo v lm EepGysGA lwwm
New vampire movies reviewed
By WLADEVHR 
LABEEKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Vampires have to be one of the 
most appealing and universal 
myths of horror. Almost every 
culture has a vampire legend of a 
sort. So it comes as no surprise 
that as part of the gothic Holly
wood bandwagon jump-started by 
good ol Coppola, vampire movies 
enjoy yet another revival. It is 
well known to every horror fan 
that each vampire story is a dif
ferent take on the subject, which 
can make for either very interest
ing stories or very long discus
sions on vampire bboards (more 
often the latter).
Hollywoods most recent jab at 
bloodsuckers is the Ricean vam
pire, given its first try on Inter
view with the Vampire, the first 
of Anne Rices Vampire chron
icles, and judging from the line at 
the theater, yes, they will prob
ably make them all, scary as it is. 
Interview, directed by Neil Jordan (The Crying Game), comes 
across as an entertaining essay 
on gorgeousness. And I dont re
fer only to watching your favorite 
heartthrob with super-long hair, 
the movie is visually impeccable, 
though I guess that was the ex
pected.
Still, the movie is so much fun 
that if you can get over the drool
ing, panting female behind you, 
it almost feels like summer all 
over again. For the few that dont 
know the story, Interview tells 
the tale of Louis (Brad Pitt) as 
related to a reporter (Christian 
Slater). Louis was a pretty de
pressed little chap until he at
tracts the attention of lonely 
Lestat (Tom Cruise) who wants 
him to be his companion. This 
means, among other things, to 
share his taste on fresh blood and 
to become the dream of every 
insurance company. But Louis, 
being the morose fellow that he 
is, cannot help to question the 
meaning of it all, upsetting his 
carefree aesthete colleague. A
story like this has the potential of 
being adapted in a very over-thetop fashion and Neil Jordan knew 
it. Thus, escaping that option, he 
has put on a rather theatrical 
show. These are not people, these 
are icons. They need a lush set
up, and in that way, Jordan man
ages to bring especially pretty 
moments like a vampire death by 
sunrise or the shot of vampires 
going like carrion birds over a 
plump female. Yes, it feels like 
summer all over again. Which 
brings us to another vampire 
movie, Cronos. Judging by its bill
ing as a Mexican vampire movie, 
this one has B-movie written 
all over it. But by that standard, 
Cronos is amazing. After a beau
tifully eerie introduction, we get 
thrown into something that is a 
horror film, a meditation on ag
ing and a B-mystery, all rolled 
into one. The movie tells the story 
of an antique dealer who comes 
across the Cronos device, a nifty 
little toy that will easily give you 
eternal life. Well, kind of.
Cronos is a very different take 
on vampires, mainly because it 
strips all the glamour out of the 
legend. First of all, the secret of 
immortality is an insect. And 
while Ricean vampires are first 
and foremost beautiful, Cronos 
immortality comes rather nonaesthetic, especially when your 
skin peels off to reveal your new 
marble-colored one. However 
Cronos does manage to have that 
sort of eerie beauty at times, even 
in the ever-present duel-on-theroof scene. It is interesting to see 
a take on immortality that makes 
it undesirable. While in Inter
view, being immortal makes you 
even cooler, in Cronos it is almost 
a vice, a terrible one, a curse in 
disguise, bringing the ultimate 
isolation.
Cronos will be playing for the 
last time this Tuesday as part of 
the Three Rivers Film Festival. 
Interview with the Vampire will 
probably be playing for quite a 
while around town.
War soundtrack has good music
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Artists: a nice variety of old favorites 
Album: The War soundtrack
This CD is a soundtrack, which are always 
fun to review. Soundtracks are an eclectic 
collection of music for all tastes. This one was 
for the movie The War, starring Kevin Costner. 
Now, I hear that this is a very good movie, but 
if I had to choose based on the soundtrack, Id 
say it was an excellent movie.
The disc starts off with Cat Stevens. This 
just puts you in a mind-set for the rest of the 
disc. Even though the song is titled Peace 
Train, and the soundtrack is titled The War, 
I gave them the benefit of the doubt. I was glad 
I did.
After Cat Stevens song comes Think by 
Aretha Franklin. Now, even though it comes 
from The War, Ill always equate it with the 
cafe scene in The Blues Brothers. Either way, 
its still a great song. Next came my first 
disappointment. The song is Summertime
from Porgy and Bess, as sung by Janis Joplin. 
Normally, I have nothing against Joplin, but 
this is too screechy, even for her.
The CD switches pace with that lovin oldies 
group, the Lovin Spoonful singing Daydream. 
This is just a great old
ies song, and deserves 
a good review no mat
ter on what disc it ap
pears.
The next song is 
somewhat of a downer.
Sunny, by Bobby 
Hebb, is a disappoint
ment compared to the 
rest of the CD.
Next comes the awe
some Spirit in the Sky 
performed by Norman 
Greenbaum. This is just 
a great song.
The next two tracks 
arent even worth mentioning. So I wont.
MCA RecordsNo need to fight; its just good music!
gether by Diana Ross and the Supremes. 
What an inspiring love song. It would 
make even the coldest of hearts melt.
The next eleven tracks on the CD are all 
instrumental tracks. At least they put 
them all together for those 
people who cant stand to 
listen to just music and no 
lyrics.
However, coming from a 
concert band background, 
I happen to enjoy instru
mental music, which 
makes it easier to do a 
soundtrack review. So I 
gave it a listen, and found 
that I liked it.
The feel of the music, 
which probably corre
sponds to the feel of the 
movie, is just chilling at 
times. If I had to predict 
Oscars just from movie soundtracks, I
The following song, and dont let the intro- would say that this would win best origiduction fool you, is Someday Well Be To- nal screenplay.Ninja movies mislead but entertain
File 13
by Carey Clevenger
Ninjas  Fact File 
Fiction:
 The/re frightened of the dark.
 They cant stand the sight of 
blood.
 Ray Charles was once a Ninja.
 They wont attack you if youre 
asleep because its not sporting.
 They listen to reason.
 They dont like heights.
 They crave pepperoni pizzas 
and announce their presence by 
shouting Cowabunga!
 Their uniforms incorporate 
loads of tiny bright electric lights 
and a klaxon that plays Yankee 
Doodle on the hour.
 Ninja means, literally, Mars 
Bar.
- From How to be a Superhero 
by Mark Leigh and Mike Lepine, 
NBM Publishing, 1992.
I remember that my first expo
sure to Ninjas was back in fourth 
grade. They used to have this 
television show called The Mas
ter. Lee Van Cleef was the Mas
ter Ninja, and he would basically 
get chauferred around in a black 
van by one of those Van Patten 
kids, all the while defending the 
world against his arch-nemesis, 
played by Sho Kosugi. The Mas
ter was really smooth: he could 
catch arrows out of the air before 
they could hit him! Everybody 
wanted to be like him: So it was 
only a matter of time before Ninjas 
would make it onto the big screen. 
That is the topic for this weeks 
discussion.
The first film for discussion is 
Enter the Ninja. This is not to be 
confused with the Bruce Lee clas
sic Enter the Dragon, which had 
not only recognizable stars but a
recognizable plot. Indeed, both of 
these items were severely lack
ing in the aforementioned movie.
The action follows the antics of 
a Ninja (surprise, surprise) as he 
helps his best friend thwart the 
efforts of evil oil barons. It seems 
that the friends plantation is sit
ting on top of a large oil deposit, 
and he isnt willing to sell his 
land. It logically follows, of course, 
that the oil barons will attempt to 
take it by force: which means 
that the Ninja has a lot of targets 
to improve his skills on.
After the Ninja has chopped, 
stabbed, punched, kicked, 
hacked, and slashed his way 
through a significant number of 
baddies, they start to realize that 
they are dealing with a Ninja. It 
is then that they decide to fight 
fire with fire, as best phrased by 
the lead antagonist: I want a 
Ninja too! And it is a Ninja they 
get: ironically, the white Ninjas 
arch-nemesis  the black Ninja 
(my, how creative).
Enter the Ninja is a Cannon 
film, and was produced by our 
friends at Golan-Globus. The 
same team is also responsible for 
our second film, Ninja: The Domi
nation.
Ninja: The Domination ex
plores an interesting question: 
what would happen if the spirit 
of an evil Ninja possessed an 
aerobics instructor/phone com
pany worker? Well, unfortu
nately, they tell us what would 
happen, and it takes them about 
an hour and a half to do so. In 
short, it means that Sho Kosugi 
has to show up and throw a 
shuriken into some misfortunate 
Ninjas eye, and lots of people get 
killed.
Its been a very long time since 
I have seen this film, and it didnt 
leave enough of an impression for 
me to remember much of it. How
ever, unlike a lot of other (equally 
forgettable) films I have seen, I 
was able to remember the title of 
it.
I have been told that these films
are the first and third install
ments in a trilogy, and that the 
second is titled Ninja: The Re
venge. I cannot confirm or deny 
this, because I have not seen it 
personally. However, if this is 
the case, then youre definitely in 
for some hard-rockin Ninja ac
tion.
Next up is a definite classic in 
the genre. The only problem is, I 
am not sure what this movie is 
called. The video box referred to 
the film as Vampire Raider Ninja 
Queen, but the titles before the 
film called it The Vampire Raid
ers. I think that a better title for
Northsore Invstments Limited 
See these? Please note: not 
ninjas.
this film would have been The 
One-Hour Thirty-Minute NonSequiter; I have seen episodes of 
The Love Boat with more plot 
than this film.
As an aside, if you are thinking 
about renting this one, I would 
suggest that you first rent a littleknown film called The Jitters, 
unless you are familiar with Chi
nese vampire lore. I had seen The 
Jitters before watching this one, 
and I had to explain a lot of the 
vampire stuff to a friend I was 
watching it with: Chinese vam
pires are quite a bit different than 
the vampires in European folk
lore. Its a pretty fun movie any
way.
Vampire Raiders is almost 
three different movies rolled up 
into one. First is the plot about 
the Purple Ninjas in their efforts 
to stop the Black Ninjas, who 
happen to be working for a man 
who is involved in a bizarre con
spiracy to take over hotels. Next,
there is the secondary plot, where 
the Black Ninjas summon vam
pires to help attack the Purple 
Ninjas. Finally, there is the sub
plot (which has the least to'do 
with the rest of the film) in which 
a group of teenagers uncover the 
conspiracy and must save a hotel 
bigwig and defend themselves at 
sea against two zombies. I found 
this third plot the most enter
taining, and at any moment I 
expected Scooby-Doo to pop up 
and assist these meddling kids.
The greatest thing about this 
film is how completely random it 
is. Just as you are getting into the 
action in one scene, it will sud
denly change to another scene 
with the same character, without 
resolving the conflict in the last 
scene (and no mention of it, ei
ther).
Other than that, this movie has 
it all: flying swine, urine-spitting 
zombies, homemade flame
throwers, eavesdroppers, and, of 
course, lots of Ninja and vampire 
action! A must for any Ninja fan.
The problem with a subject of 
this sort is that you could write 
entire books on the subject and 
still have a lot left to cover. I can 
tell you for a fact that this is a 
subject that I will probably be 
returning to in the future. So, if 
you have any favorite Ninja flicks 
that you would like to see me 
cover, I would be happy for sug
gestions.
As a final note, episodes of The 
Master have been released on 
video under the title Master 
Ninja. If youve never seen the 
show, or just simply wonder what 
Lee Van Cleef would look like in 
a Ninja outfit, they are definitely 
worth looking into.
Carey Clevenger is a junior cre
ative writing major. He owns two 
plastic katanas from a school 
project from several years ago, 
and he saw some real shurikens 
on sale at a local fair once. He 
enjoys playing Mortal Kombat 
II in his free time.
COMICBOOK
CHRONICLES
By Jason Andracki
Well if you havent had 
enough of Frankenstein, what 
with Halloween just passing 
and Kenneth Branaghs new 
flick about the stitched-upmonster, then you might be interestedin checking out DCs new
est entry into their Elseworlds 
collection, Batman: Castle of 
the Bat. Then again, maybeyou 
wont, since it costs $5.95.
The Elseworlds books, like 
this summers Annuals, take 
the star of the book (in this case 
Batman) and places him in a 
different time (Germany in the 
early 19th Century). These sto
ries are self-contained and take 
place butside of the traditional 
continuity of the books so the 
creative teams,behind these 
works are free to do whatever 
they want within them.
Batman has probably been 
the character most used in these 
Elseworlds books since the line 
began a few years back with 
Gotham by Gaslight (with beau
tiful artwork by Mike Mignola 
and P. Craig Russell. By the 
way, be here next week for an 
interview with Mr. Russell, 
himself). I am relatively unfa
miliar with the creative team 
behind Castle of the Bat (Jack 
C. Harris, writer and Bo Hamp
ton, artist) so youTl have to do 
without any insightful compari
sons between their past cred
its.
The art, fully painted by 
Hampton, is perfect for the 
story. The muddiness of the 
colors is well suited for a book 
that takes place at night. 
Hampton conveys emotion, es
pecially facial expressions, to 
the point where they almost 
become overdone and turn into 
a parody of themselves. Hamp
ton does a fine job walkingthat 
thin line. Although I have noth
ing but praise for the ait, my 
opmionofHamswritingis less 
than favorable. Hetellsmostof 
the story through backstory (I 
sure hope my Study of Forms: 
Rctionprofessorisreadingthis. 
Extra Credit?) but doesnt re
ally let the reader know what 
hes doing. I had to flip back 
through the book to see if I had 
missed something, but the only 
hint that this story isnt linear 
is pale blue narration boxes that
do hot appear during the flash
backs. Huh?
In addition to this time con. 
fusion, Harris stumbles else
where in this newest 
Elseworlds book. I guess its 
mandatory for anyone dealing 
with a pseudo-origin ofBatman 
to use the criminals are a su
perstitious and cowardly lot 
quote, but when Bruce Wayne 
tells Elseworlds version of 
Alfred, Dont be a member of 
such a superstitious and cow
ardly lot, I had to laugh. Even
DC Comics Everyone's favorite rodent gets 
shocked in Castle of the Bat.
though I have just shredded 
Harris work, it does have a few 
redeeming qualities. One of 
these is havingthe Elseworlds 
version of Waynes butler 
Alfred be Alfredo, the hunch
backed lab assistant to Dr. 
Bruce Wayne; this was ah inge
nious plot device. Also, without 
spoiling it for anyone, Bruce's 
father has a more crucial role 
in this Batman story besides 
just getting shot. Harris uses 
excerpts from The Hippocratic 
Oath very tastefully.
All in all, Batman: Castle of 
the Bat is a worthy member of 
DCs Elseworlds line, which is 
one of the best things they have 
developed over the years. Al
though the book is sometimes 
held back by subpar writing, 
the superb painting of Bo 
Hampton makes up for this in 
kind. If you have an extra $6 
and you dont feel like watch
ing Branaghs new Franken
stein film, then feel free to blow 
it on Castle of the Bat with my 
blessing. I cant help but think 
if this book was released two 
weeks earlier I would have re
ally loved it.
Dr. Jason Von Andracki is a 
professional writing major! 
brain transplant minor in his 
third semester of study. He 
hasn't had this much fun look
ing at brains in jars since the 
last time he watched Steve 
Martins The Man With Two 
Brains. Dr. Wayne to Alfredo: 
You bumbling fool! You gave 
metkewrongbrain,didntyour
btbiog rounds 
out your BA 
like our MAP
Global Finance Technology Division 
Information Session 
Wednesday, November 16th, 6PM-8PM 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Porter Hall, Room 125B 
Refreshments will be served
For a better look at business 
consider Citibanks global reach 
and opportunities. Our 
ManagementAechnical Associate 
Program puts you at the heart of 
a premier financial services 
organization with hundreds of 
products and services, thousands 
of branches, and a substantial 
presence in over 90 countries.
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/D/V.
Citibank. As Global As It Gets.
CITIBANKSKoj
J

---------------------------------------------------

M,G MSAcSo v dSAoGinG aGtteo v lm EepGysGA lwwmno
Thursday, November 17The 39 Steps
Nope, its not 40 steps. That would be too easy. Its 
39 steps, folks, and thats what makes it so great. 
Directed by the Big Bopper himself, Alfred 
Hitchcock, this movie is about an ordinary type of 
fellow entangled in a nefarious spy ring. Starring 
cool cats Robert Donat, Madeline Carroll, Tom 
Hanks, and John Laurie, as well as a few others who 
look good in dark suits and chunky one-piece bath
ing suits, this 1937 is a winner, yes-sir-ee. Though 
it has been remade two times, old Alfries version 
wins double-chins down. Though it doesnt deal 
with a mildly philosophical man with an IQ below 
80, it is still a swell movie. See it with the nefarious 
spy of your dreams.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, November 18Sirens
What would you rather see: Tom Hanks as a 
lanky, clothed dork or Elle McPherson as a lanky, 
naked super-model? I figured hormones would win 
out in the end, so I suppose thats why they are 
showing Sirens.
Though it could be about fire engines, this film 
stars Hugh Grant and the above-mentioned naked 
person in a film about inspiration and art. Although 
the name and theme may seem a bit lurid at first, 
this movie is actually fairly tame and interesting. 
Grant, another naked person, plays a haughty cler
gyman who hopes to dissuade Norman Lindsay, a 
painter played by Sam Niell, from getting naked 
and painting dirty pictures. However, Niell con
vinces Grant and his wife to get naked with Kate 
Fischer and Elle McPherson and break down the 
stodgy barriers between the characters.
Well, theres nudity in it, and thats good. But 
theres also some interesting plot and wonderful 
shots of Australia and bare bums. A good date 
movie, I suppose, if youre into that sort of thing.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, November 19
True Lies
Ha ha! Look at that wacky title! Its a trope! Its an 
oxymoron. True lies! How can you have true lies? 
Now thats comedy!
Well, not really. This movie is about Arnold 
Schwartzenegger and Jamie Lee Curtis flying 
around in airplanes and shooting people. Evidently, 
Schwartzenegger is a nefarious spy and Curtis 
doesnt know this. And get this! Theyre married! A 
comedy of errors and action occurs and a marvelous 
time is had by all.
Released last summer, this movie has incredible 
special effects and lots of guns and big vehicles. A 
good date movie if you dont want to see people 
eating chocolates.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, November 20Purple Death from Outer 
Space
Purple-. Thats the first word. Death, thats the 
second. From Outer Space. Its called Purple Death 
from Outer Space. Not Forrest Gump, not Citizen 
Kane, not even something like It Could Happen to 
You. No, its Purple Death from Outer Space.
And you people expect me to review this swill.
Ok, fine. This is a Flash Gordon re-release that 
uses original footage from the old movie that is 
stuck together and made into a new movie. The 
movie is about Flash Gordon fighting Ming the 
Merciless along side the magical and mysterious 
Arboria, Prince Barin, and Aura. It stars a lot of 
unknowns and was directed by Ford Beebe. I mean, 
its called Purple Death from Outer Space. What 
kind of plot synopsis do you want?
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS ,
Buses explained
CRUISIN THE 
BURGH
by Christina Farrell
We all know about the terrible 
parking problems on and around 
campus. I am one of the many 
who have chosennot to have a car 
at school because I lack the pa
tience to drive up and down Mar
garet Morrison for 20 minutes at 
a time looking for a spot to park, 
not to mention the cost of a car on 
a students budget.
While it would certainly be 
more convenient to have a car for 
quick grocery-runs and other 
small errands, it is still possible 
to get just about anywhere in 
Pittsburgh without a car  even 
without bumming a ride from a 
friend.
The Port Authority Transit 
(PAT) is an inexpensive, easy way 
to get around Pittsburgh. There 
are 168 bus and trolley routes 
which can take you as far as 
South Hills Village or as close 
as downtown. Nearly all bus 
lines that run into Oakland 
stop on either Forbes or Craig 
and will take you to Fifth Ave. 
downtown. So that you get the 
feel of how it works, here are 
some examples of places you 
might want to go using PAT.
To get downtown, simply 
catch any 61 or 67 bus on 
Forbes. (The 67 bus doesnt 
run on Sundays.) The 
Benedum Center, Civic Arena, 
Fulton Theater, Heinz Hall, 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, Point 
State Park, and North Hills 
Mallarejustafewofthe places 
you can get to on just the 61 
line.
If you buy a $.25 transfer on 
the bus, you can change buses 
and go to the Warhol Museum, 
Carnegie Science Center, Cen
tury III Mall, Ikea, and Galle
ria. There are also seven UBuses which go directly into 
the suburbs during rush hour 
to avoid traffic.
Once youre downtown, you can 
travel within the Golden Triangle, 
between Gateway Center, Wood 
Street, and Steel Plaza Station, 
for free with the T, Pittsburghs 
subway/trolley system. Near 
Gateway Center Station is Fifth 
Avenue Place and shopping mall, 
Market Square, PPG Place, and 
Point State Park. By Wood Street 
lie Heinz Hall, Fulton Theater, 
and Saks Fifth Avenue. Close to 
Steel Plaza Station you will find
the Civic Arena, the CityCounty Building, the Allegh-. 
eny County Court House, and 
Oxford Centre and shopping 
mall. For $.75, you can take the 
T to StationSquare and many 
places on the North Side, in
cluding Carnegie Science Cen
ter, The National Aviary, Three 
Rivers Stadium, and the Pitts
burgh Public Theater.
Recently I took the T to 
South Hills Village Mall. The 
ride took about a half hour from 
Gateway Center and cost $1.60. 
Once we were into the suburbs, 
the train moved from under
ground to the streets. Just like 
in the old days, the trolley fol
lowed overhead cables and 
metal tracks in the brick 
streets, with the cars driving 
along on either side. Its a dif
ferent side of Pittsburgh thats 
worth the trip even if you have 
a car.
Before you ride PAT, make 
sure you check the schedule. 
During rush hours, some fares 
increase and during slower 
hours, the lines may not run as 
often. The Information Desk
What
PAT
Cost
Zone 1: $1.25 
Zone 2: $1.60 
Transfers: $.25 (good for 3 
hrs. after purchase)
For more info.
Information Desk x8-2107
PAT Information and 
Customer Service 442-2000
7 am-7 pm, M-F 
8 am-6 pm, weekends and 
holidays
PAT Downtown Service 
Center 
534 Smithfield Street 
7:30 am-5 pm
has all PAT schedules and sells 
monthly, weekly, and ten-trip 
passes. PAT also has a Cus
tomer Service number (442- 2000) if you have any ques
tions.
Christina Farrell is a sopho
more music major. If you have 
any suggestions or questions 
about what to do in Pittsburgh, 
send email to cf2s or contact 
The Tartan.
Sex makes for 
good quotes
By JON SLENK
Tartan Staffwriter
Book: Quotable Sex 
Author: Carole McKenzie 
Publisher: St. Martins Press
Theres no introduction to this 
book. Theres no afterword. 
Theres no explanation for why it 
came into being. Theres no 
About the Author text. There 
is, however, an index of those 
quoted and 270 pages of topically 
sorted quotations about sex.
So you might be asking, Uh, 
whats the point? Well, what we 
have here is a collection of views 
on sex by insightful, wittyand 
sometimes scary  people. At 
the very least, the book would do 
well on a coffee table, and at best 
it would get one thinking criti
cally about the subject at hand. 
Quotations are interesting things. 
They can be excerpts which rep
resent the core statement of a
thesis. They can also be quips, 
entirely flippant. Either way, they 
give one a glimpse into the mind 
of the person quoted, a fascinat
ing phenomenon in and of itself. 
Such phrases can be food for 
thought, planting the germ of a 
new concept or sketching a fresh 
perspective on the issue at hand. 
Quotations can also give one the 
words to express ideas that were 
previously too nebulous or slip
pery to really get across.
In that sense, quotations can 
be viewed as a box of language 
tools. As such, this collection gives 
one a garden hose to water the 
imagination about such topics as 
advice, AIDS, food, foreplay, in
nuendo, law, modesty, seduction, 
true confessions, youth, and many 
others.So, while there is no obvi
ous single point made in the text, 
I think this book does stress an 
important and oft debunked les
son: we should all make up our 
own minds.
Church offers little
KUNTU, from pags 1.9
reclaim African heritage.
This view is largely the reason 
for the character Stanley Stein 
(Rich Keitel). Stein is an old, 
wise, wealthy Jew, who says that 
his people survived and pros
pered because they never forgot 
their heritage - and judging by 
theamount of money in his pock
ets, he must be right. His charac
ter supports asmany stereotypes 
of Jews as it attempts to refute, 
but he is too nice a guy to offend 
anybody.
Stein is a pleasant, modernday version of Shylock: he is Jew
ish, a money lender, and is among 
merchants of a sort, but the similaritiesto Shakespeares play end 
there.
Sybil Berrys play is a care
fully crafted, incredibly polished 
piece of politically correct writ 
mg. Berry is able to portray Stein 
as one cause of the black plight, 
while simultaneously giving his 
many virtues an overpowering 
luster.
And entirely glossed over are 
the ramifications of the telling, 
poignant, controversial moment 
at the end of the play, when Stein, 
the only Jew left in the neighbor
hood, finally moves out.
We are inundated by the wis
dom of yet another wise old char
acter, the mystical Isis (Vicki 
Bey), whose symbolic purpose in 
the play stems from obscure 
Egyptianmythology. Act II drags
through her story, a slow, melo
dramatic recapitulation of the 
familys history.
The play shifts tone and fo
cus. and it reveals the final 
parent-child relationship in the 
play: that of playwright to au
dience. We are helpless against 
the plays final, didactic half 
hour, as Berry drills her mes
sage over and over.
In her notes, Sybil Berry 
wants the play to ask the fun
damental How shall we live? 
She would answer, By embrac
ing our own culture; by not for
getting our past.
But she carefully avoids the 
more specific questions: How 
shall we live in American soci
ety? How shall we deal with 
gangs and drugs? How shall we 
educate and instill values in 
our children? How shall we re
pair and rebuild family struc
ture?
Idealistically, there is the 
hope and wisdom of our own 
particular heritage; but practi
cally, The Miracle Church, like 
the churches on Miracle Row, 
promisestoo many miracles and 
offers too few solutions.
The Miracle Church at Uni
versity of Pittsburghs Stephen 
Foster Memorial Auditoriumon 
Forbes Ave., November 17-19, 
$10general admission ($8 stu
dents), call 624-7298 for more 
information.
Looks like a 
Vivarin night.
The big one's only 12 hours away. You 
could have paid more attention in 
class, but tonight you've gotta 
cram. First, you better keep 
those eyes from closing. 
Revive with Vivarin. 
Safe as coffee, it 
helps keep you 
awake and mentally 
alert for hours. 
So when your most 
difficult problem to 
solve is how to 
stay awake...make it 
a Vivarin night!
s0Wehd
tor last pick upsaf as cotlee k
Revive with VIVARIN.
Uao only a directed. Contain cgffotoo equivalent to 2 cup* of coffee. O t993 SmlttiKlIno Boocham.

---------------------------------------------------

Copyright 1994 by Twentieth Century Fox 
Arnold Schwartzenegger Is back as secret agent Harry Tasker, alongside Tom Arnold, In True Lies.
_________ART
Second Annual Juried Photo-Film-Video
Show will be presented from November 15-20 at 
the Forbes Gallery, 5200 Forbes Avenue. Recep
tion and award announcement will be held this 
Friday from 7-9 pm. Gallery hours: Monday closed, 
Tuesday 12-6 pm, Wednesday 1:30-9 pm, Thurs
day through Sunday 12-6 pm. For more informa
tion, call 268-2081.
Lee Blessings Independence, directed by 
Patricia Montley, will be presented by the 
Chatham College Theatre Program on November 
18 and 19 at 8 pm and November 20 at 2 pm in the 
Eddy Theatre. Admission is free. Contact Pat 
Montley at 365-1169 for more information.
Hansel and Gretel will be presented by the 
Playhouse Jr. Childrens Theatre Company at the 
Point Park College Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., 
through November 20. Performances are held on 
Saturdays at 11 am and 2:30 pm, Sundays at 2:30 
pm. Tickets are $6, available at the Playhouse 
Box Office or by phone with VISA/MasterCard ($1 
service fee charge per total credit card order) by 
calling 621-4445.
Reconstruction of an Aazudian Temple
will be on display through November 22 at the 
Hewlett Gallery. The exhibit features relics, 
photographs, and other seemingly real artifacts of 
an imaginary civilization conjured up in the mind 
of artist Beauvais Lyons. For more information, 
call 268-3877.
Once in a Lifetime, directed by Gregory 
Lehane, will be performing at the Kresge Stage 
from November 19-December 10. Call the Drama 
Box Office at 268-2407 for ticket information.
University-wide call for artists!!! The Forbes 
Gallery will host the second annual Juried PhotoFilm-Video Show from November 15-27. Art 
work will be accepted on Sunday, November 13, 
1994 from 12 to 3 pm. Students may submit one 
to two examples of recent work in photographic 
media. A jury committee will select the top three 
entries in each medium for awards. All work 
submitted will be exhibited. Announcement of 
awards and reception for the exhibition will be on 
November 18, from 7 to 9 pm. For more informa
tion, contact Forbes Gallery Co-Directors, Katie 
Welty (mw4q) and Kristen Uhler (auOO).
Opportunity for Artists! The Hewlett Gallery 
is accepting proposals for its 1995-96 season. 
Site-specific, collaborative and multidisciplinary 
projects in science, visual, and performing arts 
enjoy a special welcome. For application forms 
and additional information, contact Petra Fallaux 
at the Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine Arts, #111, 
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890 or call 268-3877. Deadline is Decem
ber 9,1994.
_____ MEETINGS
Student Alumni Relations Council (SAR) 
meets every Wednesday at 5 pm at the Alumni 
House. New members are always welcome. For 
more information, email ks59 or subscribe to 
assocs.SARC.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-denominational student study group, provides a 
weekly forum for inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings are held Tues
days at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning Room 
236. Call Dave Weiner at 431-4047 for more infor
mation.
Improve your foreign language skills over 
lunch with the Modem Languages Department:
Tuesdays: French Table at 2:30, Russian Table at 
12:30; Wednesdays: SpanishTable at 11:30; Thurs
days: German Table at 11:30; Fridays: Japanese 
Table at noon. All groups meet in the Morewood 
Cafeteria with the exception of the French Table, 
which meets in Baker Hall 246A.
Kappa chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, the na
tional service fraternity, invites you to attend our 
meetings, which are held every Thursday at 8:30 
pm at MM103 (Breed Hall). See our bulletin 
board near the front of Doherty Hall for informa
tion on upcoming activities.
Carnegie Mellon Vegetarians meets at 9 pm 
on Thursday nights in DH1217. For more infor
mation, subscribe to assocs.cmu-vegetarians.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in Doherty Hall 
Room 1212. For more information, call 268-2114.
________ELMS
39 Steps will be playing at Doherty Hall 2210 this 
Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sirens will play Friday in Doherty Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
True Lies will be sho\m this Saturday at 5,7:30, 
10 pm, and 12:30 am in Doherty Hall 2210.
Purple Death from Outer Space is playing 
Sunday in Doherty Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and 
midnight.-
________MUSIC
Famous violin virtuoso Itzhak Perlman will 
help the Y Music Society celebrate the Jewish 
Community Centers 100th Anniversary by per
forming in recital on Wednesday at 7:30 pm. This 
special non-subscription concert presented at 
Carnegie Music Hall is to be followed by a recep
tion with Perlman at the Carnegie Museum Cafe. 
For more information, contact Allen Sher at 521- 
8010.
The Three Cuckolds, presented by the Pitt The
atre Department, will be playing at the Studio 
Theatre (basement of the Cathedral of Learning) 
until November 19. Show times are Tuesday 
through Saturday at 8 pm. Tickets are $9 and 
students can buy tickets 30 minutes before the 
show for $5. Call 624-PLAY for more information.
Bostons Magic Hour (ex-members of Galaxie 
500) will perform with North Carolina pop-punks 
Small (ex-members of Superchunk) plus locals 
Karl Hendricks Trio on Wednesday at Lucianos. 
Admission is $6. All ages are welcome! For more 
information, call 281-6877.
Olympis and Fitz of Depression will be play
ing with Boston heavy rockers Slughog and locals 
Davenport at the Bloomsfield Br. Tavern. Gen
eral admission is $5. Call 682-8611 for more 
information.
Student Dance Ensemble will be performing 
on November 18 & 19 at the Boyce Campus 
Theatre, 595 Beatty Road. General admission is 
$7. Call 325-6743 for reservations.
Settie Concert, featuring original music in addi
tion to covers of Janis Joplin, Bonnie Raitt, 4 Non 
Blondes, and more, will take place on Saturday at 
the Student Center Drill Deck A01 at 8 pm. 
Sponsored by the AB Coffeehouse. For ticket or 
other information, please contact Jill Goodall at 
268-2105.
Cuarteto Latinoamerieano will be performing 
on Saturday at the Mellon Institute Auditorium 
at 3 pm. General admission is $10. For more 
information, contact the Concert Line at 268- 
2383.
Carnegie Mellon Jazz Ensembles will be per
forming this Saturday attheAlumni Concert Hall 
at 3 pm. Free admission. Contact the Concert 
Line at 268-2383 for information.
Organist Dir. Raymond H. Ocock, from First 
Presbyterian Church, Sharon, will be performing 
Christ the Kind Sunday at the Heinz Chapel on 
Pitts Oakland campus on Sunday at 9:30 pm. 
This performance is part of the Pittsburgh 
Compline Choir Series.
Learn to Dance, the Cajun two-step/waltz & 
Zydeco! Next class will run on November 21 at 
Lucianos, 1023 Forbes avenue, (across from 
Duquesne University). Dance instruction and 
dancing to recorded music starts at 8:30 pm. Jam 
session starts at 9:30 pm. Bring your instru
ments! Beginners are welcome. For more infor
mation, call 242-4597.
_______NOTICES
Interested in Middle East Peace Process?
The Jewish University Center is hosting an Israel 
Festival on Wednesday at 7:30 pm in the Student 
Center Drill Deck. Free Middle-Eastern cuisine, 
dancing, music, and a presentation by Professor 
of Middle East politics Nathan Firestone. The 
program is open to all interested parties. Email 
rsbj for more information.
Diet for a New America. Carnegie Mellon Veg
etarians will be showing this excellent eye-opening video Wednesday at 9 pm in DH2210. Learn 
about the effects of the meat-centered diet on our. 
health and environment and what you can do!
Vegetarianism Discussion on WRGT. Carn
egie Mellon Vegetarians will host a call-in talk 
show on 88.3 FM this Thursday immediately 
following the WRCT news at 5 pm. Please tune in 
to ask questions and learn more about the health 
and environmental consequences of eating ani
mal products.
Entrepreneurs Day, Pittsburghs premier small 
business conference, will be held on Thursday at 
the David L. Lawrence Convention Center. Pre
registration deadline is Wednesday. For further 
details, please call 578-3481. Presented by the 
Enterprise Corporation of Pittsburgh.
Hermaphrodites, Androygynes, and Other
Compatible Couples, a public lecture by Beverly 
D. Zabriskie, is being sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Jung Society. This promises to be a lively and 
provocative program on gender and the images 
that transcend the givens of nature and culture. 
The lecture will take place on Friday at the Uni
versity of Pittsburghs Frick Fine Arts Audito
rium at 8 pm. Donation is $8. The seminar will 
take place on Saturday from 9:30 am12:30 pm at 
Forbes Quadrangle 5G56. Donation is $25. Stu
dents are welcome.
Donate canned food!!! The Point Park College 
Playhouse will serve as a collections point for
donations to the Greater Pittsburgh Community 
Food Bank until Sunday. Donations of canned 
food, powdered milk, pasta, and cereals are being 
accepted, along with personal hygiene and house
hold products (such as diapers, toothpaste, toilet 
paper, and cleaning supplies). Donations may be 
dropped off in the Playhouse lobby on Saturdays 
from 10 am-4 pm, and Sundays from 14 pm. For 
further information, call the Playhouse at (412) 
621-4445.
The Oakland Review is accepting submissions 
for its Fall 1994/Spring 1995 issue. Fiction, po
etry, and artwork can be sent do the Editors to 
Box 6168; 4902 Forbes Ave.; Pittsburgh, PA15217. 
Include a cover letter with your name and the 
titles of the works submitted. Please do not put 
your name on the works themselves. The dead
line for submissions is December 15, 1994. For 
further information, contact Eugene Kuo (681- * 
5679 or ekli) or Sara Barton (862-2812 or sb65). '
Volunteer!!! The Office of International Educa- ! 
tion and the Global Nomads organization are j 
coordinating a cultural exchange between Ameri- ' 
cans and international or transnational students 1 
and scholars. Volunteers are needed for Holiday  
Homestay, a program where Americans invite  
international students and scholars to their homes ; 
for a meal or overnight stay during Thanksgiving ; 
or Winter Recess. If you can volunteer your time ; 
and home to share your culture with others, ; 
contact the Office of International Education at i 
268-3520 or email fsadv@andrew.cmu.edu.
______RELIGION
Hillels Jewish University Center will be host
ing an Israel Festival on Wednesday at 7 pm at the : 
Student Center Drill Deck. Everyone is welcome 
to join us for middle-eastern food, Israeli dancing, 
and open discussion about the peace process. . 
Please call Ruth Slater at 621-8875 to confirm 
your attendance plans, or email 
rsbj@andrew. emu. edu.
The CMU Muslim Students Association con- ; 
ducts midday prayer at 1:40 pm in the Student 
Center 224 every day, Monday through Friday. : 
We also have study circle on Saturdays at the 
same time and place. All are invited. Email ! 
msa@andrew.cmu.edu for more information.
Islamic Center of Pittsburgh, 4100 Bigelow 
Blvd.i holds five daily prayers, as well as Friday : 
Prayers at 12 pm. Contact 682-5555 for more 
information on weekly study circles and other ; 
activities.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm. in Student 
Center Room 224, Monday through Friday. Week
end Masses are celebrated at 10:30 am and 8 pm 1 
every Sunday in Posner Hall. For more informa
tion, call the Newman Oratory Center at 681- 
3181.
______SPORTS j
The mens & womens cross-country team 
will compete in the NCAA National Champion
ships on Saturday.
Poirmlox
V on.y a t
LI
pie
Say Yucky!, Pixie.
I looooove you!
Dave:
Its a good day to be a Republi
can!!!
AEPis, AEPis.
See how they run, See how they  
run. You better watch out for 
sororities, they steal your pins 
without saying please....
Pledge Hayes,
Hope you washed your mouth 
out!
Brother Kumar
Long live the fucking Republic.
Darn! That means I cant get 
drunk tonight and instead show 
up at the library tomorrow 
morning and do numbercrunching.
Fat girl in white car,
Go eat your damn chips!
- Gurney, Nemo, Reesh
JenniferHow long will we last? As far as 
California will take us.
Jen H.-My goodness! Another 
email message from you!
Understatement of the week: 
Aint life a bitch?
Chungah! Butt sex!!!
Civilian Man -
I can be passive as well as ac
tive. But how can I be sure 
youll give me what I need? 
Military Man
Questioner -
Ifyour input is desired, you will 
be asked. And tell me, just who 
are you?
Military Man
Zeppelin quote of the week: 
Hey baby when you walk that 
way, watch your honey drip, 
cant keep away!
Tina,
Je suis plus heureux dans ma 
vie. Tu es belle; Je taime.
Submit Calendar and Vox Popull announcements! Announcements 
should be 20 words or less and are due Thursday at 5 pm. Drop them 
off at the Tartan office In the Student Center or email to jebx.
