89, Issue 1720 February 1995
In Student Government...
President announces resignation
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor
; drove slowly up Forbes Avenue on Saturday In memorial of 
e firefighters who lost their lives last Tuesday. The procession 
tlnued to St. Pauls Cathedral for a memorial service.
emorial service 
nors firefighters
EDWARD HAES
Han News Editor
iaturday the streets were lined 
;h fire trucks and ambulances 
m as far as Washington state 
honor of the three firefighters
o were killed last Tuesday, 
ire Kolenda, 27, Captain Tho(s Brooks, 42, and Patricia 
[iroy, 43, were all killed after 
nir trapped when a burning
stairway collapsed. A procession 
was led from Three Rivers Sta
dium through the city until they 
reached St. Pauls Cathedral. It 
crossed over the Fort Duquesne 
Bridge and went down Parkway 
East. They continued on to the 
Forbes Ave. exit and made a left 
on Morewood. They turned on to 
Fifth and headed down till they 
reached the Cathedral. There 
Please see SERVICE page 2
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan News Editor
Student Government Presi
dent, Declan McCullagh resigned 
at an emergency meeting of Stu
dent Senate last Friday. For le
gal reasons, Im announcing my 
resignation effective next Tues
day, he told Senators, faculty 
and other student leaders in 
Posner Halls Rachel Mellon 
Walton room.
Following his announcement, 
McCullagh took questions from 
the audience. For legal reasons, 
the questions had to be submit
ted on notecards to Julie Harris, 
McCullaghs associate, before he 
answered them. One Senator 
questionedMcCullaghs financial 
problems. Why did you circum
vent the financial account direc
tor to request $50 in Campus 
Express? Why was this not 
brought to the attention of the 
Treasurer, the account director, 
in your face-to-face meeting? 
McCullagh responded, I did not 
circumvent the account director, 
so the question is invalid. This 
made reference to the fact that 
McCullagh had reserved the
Rachel Mellon Walton room for 
the meeting and had to spend for 
the meeting andhad to spend $50 
from his frozen account.
McCullagh was also asked if 
the Student Government Presi
dent should be allowed to spend 
money in a frozen account.
David Perry/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
Student Government President Declan McCullagh announced his 
resignation Friday during an emergency Senate meeting.
At that point Brenden Mielke, McCullagh replied, Ifthe account 
Chair of Cam pus Affairs, distrib- is frozen for legitimate reasons 
uted handouts showing that no.
McCullagh had indeed circum- This was also documented in 
vented the Treasurer. the handout distributed by
Mielke. McCullagh was also 
asked if he had ever purchased 
alcohol on his American Express 
Corporate Card. He replied that 
he had not. After some debate, 
Merle Atkinson, Senate Funding 
and Recognition Chair, produced 
a receipt which showed that two 
beers had been billed to a check 
which McCullagh had signed and 
paid for with his Corporate Card. 
McCullagh said he had no idea 
why those beers were charged to 
his check.
McCullaghs resignation pro
duced a myriad of responses from 
senators and students. Senate 
Chair Burt Holzman said he was 
expecting it. He also said, Per
sonally, Im relieved its over.
I believe that anyone who can 
be proven guilty of fiscal mis
management, financial miscon
duct and misrepresentation be
fore Senate should not be the 
primary representative of the 
Carnegie Mellon student body, 
said Emma Gosden, Student Gov
ernment Treasurer.
He lied to Senate, said Ray 
Ardire, IM Senator.
Im glad, I feel finally like were 
Please see RESIGNATION page 3
CMDS questions delivery service
 iBflHBPiHi! Villi lini- ilflhlb f iiftiMI il
iw !3i~ JHWt\Iift 4 1 >. 
Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Photographer
nstruction continues on the new University Center. It is currently In the third stage 
construction. It is scheduled to open In the fall of 1996.
Construction continues 
irith University Center
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Copy Manager
The problems between two Indian res
taurants and Carnegie Mellon Dining 
Services (CMDS) have apparently come 
to an end after the University clarified 
its position on the restaurants delivery 
service.
Our concerns --------------------------
with the nature of 
their operation ... 
are twofold, said 
Mark Hamlin, di
rector of CMDS.
Theyve estab
lished essentially a 
concession opera
tion on campus 
property without 
permission, and 
theyre selling hot 
entrees out of conoperations director, Masoud Mahini.
That day, Hamlin happened upon the 
delivery services while they were dis
tributing lunches to CMU employees 
and students in Scaife Hall lobby, and 
discovered they were violating the regu
lations  something he had previously 
warned them about. While he told the 
restaurant owners that they could finWe at no time wanted to cease delivered 
food on campus.... The issue is the way 
their food is being delivered.
 Mark Hamlin, 
Head of Dining Services
tainers that do not hold hot food to tem
perature.
The whole problem with the two res
taurants originated on Friday, Febru
ary 10, when CMDS efforts to stop the 
rules violations ended in an argument 
between a Srees owner and Hamlins
ish their sales and then speak with him 
about rectifying the situation, a person 
who worked in Scaife Hall had called 
CMDS to complain about the sales. A 
CMU police report said that Mahini con
tacted campus police about the com
plaint and went with them to speak to
the restaurant owners. Hamlin said that 
some sort of argument occurred between 
Mahini and Vyelehi Sree, and ultimately 
the two owners were told to leave cam
pus property.
[Mahini] told me that an argument 
did ensue, Hamlin said. It was a com
edy of errors. I had told her to finish up 
your operation today, so I walk away,
---------------------- and he comes in five
minutes later with the 
campus police. I knew 
nothing about what 
had happened, and he 
didnt know Id been 
there. It got out of con
trol at that point, and 
that was very unfor
tunate. ... It was an 
accident of miscommunication. Mahini 
^was unavailable for 
comment.
Hamlin saidFriday, after meeting with 
Sree and her husband, and arranging a 
meeting with Haijid Singh, the owner of 
Taste of India, that he expected the 
delivery service to resume today. They 
will be back, he said. There will be 
Please see CMDS page 2
SUDHIR REDDY
rta,L Junior Staffwriter
Construction on the University Cencontinues as planned from the origidesign. Paul Tellers, the University 
ihitect, expressed confidence that the 
iversity Centetf should be finished by 
gust 1996. The mild winter has defijkly helped us, but there will be things 
ich may take more time, so on the 
6, the expected date of comple should be in August, 1996. 
instruction has now moved into the 
rd phase, which is the steel frame. 
Jere ar five phases overall. The first 
| phases were excavation and caseconcrete columns placed beneath 
building for support. Due to the 
Bp size of the building and the loose 
> numerous columns were necessary, 
instruction of the new Student Cenr egan in the summer of1994. How) |.r design process began in 1987. 
brtl?S Sa^ a competition was held : he best design. The winner, Michael
Dennis & Associates, made the blue
prints with the intention of building a 
much bigger complex than the previous 
student center. The new University Cen
ter will have 240,000 square feet com
pared to Skibos 180,000 square feet.
Reasons for the long hiatus between 
the design and construction stages have 
been the numerous projects in between. 
Tellers said, The stadium, parking ga
rage, and the new dormitories were im
portant projects which needed atten
tion.
Among the renovated facilities at the 
student center will be a ballroom, ex
panded number of student offices, new 
dining offices, 450-person auditorium, 
two swimming pools, gymnasium, and 
locker rooms. Tellers said, This is real 
quality. Although the actual building 
will be a bit smaller than the original 
design, there will be no comparison with 
Skibo. The new Student Center is so 
much better.
CMU students have expressed some 
Please see CONSTRUCTION page 2
certainstudentsays
support student aid
release from the National 
of Graduate-Professional 
(NAGPS), Kevin Boyer, 
3sident, said, We are op
s' attempts to eliminate the 
"Schultesaidthat 
loan program helps stu.ool who otherwise would 
: to pursue their education.
1 to est while students are still in school, 
There thus helping make school affordable to 
more students. Gurciullo reaffirmed this 
sfrom by stating, The elimination of the loan 
i to interest exemption will hurt the under
graduates as well as the graduates. But 
ivem- the graduates may be hurt the most due 
eir loans from previous education. 
programs may be slashed. GSOPresi- NAGPS is a national organization of
dent Chris Gurciullo, a graduate stu- all the graduate school organizations 
dent in chemical engineering, stated throughout the country. Over 450,000 
that the government is influenced by graduate students belong to the nonthe fact that student borrowing for profit organization, 
education increased 47 percent since Gurciullo said that some people agree 
1992. with the government by saying that,
their viewpoint is the government 
needs to be compensated for its in
vestment. The government loses 
money by supporting graduate stu
dents who could do the same job with
out a doctorate. But Gurciullo ar-- 
gues, The government needs to sup
port an educated society despite the 
money.
Gurciullo said that the government 
has already agreed on some program. 
cuts. A variety of programs, includ
ing [some affecting] the underclass
men and minorities, will be gone once 
the budget proposal passes.
A variety of programs are being 
planned to educate the student body 
on the issue. Schulte also said that a 
CMU representative will attend re
gional/national meetings of the 
NAGPS to discuss the financial threat. 
He expressed hope that the meetings 
will help persuade the legislature to 
reconsider the ramifications of the 
cutbacks.
THE TARTAN
Sports
Hockey wins division 
title  see page 9
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 1906
Features
Javon Thompsons art 
featured  see page LI

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 February 1995THIS JUST IN
Pittsburgh honors 
fallen firefighters
SERVICE, from page 1
were around 600 firefighters from Pitts
burgh in attendance. Others came from 
all over the country, including Kansas 
City, Seattle, and Los Angeles.
There were hundreds of ladder trucks, 
pumpers, and other vehicles that flashed 
their lights for the procession. The com
pany truck that handled the fatal fire 
was filled with flowers in honor of the 
firefighters memories.
Attending the ceremony was Deputy 
Chief Robert Kolenda. He was the father 
of one of the deceased.
It was only eight months ago when his 
son was made a firefighter. Kolenda was 
the one who pinned the firefighters 
badge on his sons uniform.
Kolenda spoke at the service in honor 
of his son before the 4,000 additional 
uniformed firefighters who appeared at 
the service.
Kolanda stopped a number of times as 
his emotions overwhelmed him. He re
minded everyone that his son took an 
oath to defend the people of Pittsburgh. 
He told people to do their best at what
ever they do.
Brooks, Conroy, and Kolenda died on 
Valentines Day after they had entered 
the burning house to be sure no one was 
inside.
When the stairwell collapsed, they 
were trapped in the downstairs room. 
They all suffocated, but the family got 
out unharmed.
Conroy was the first female firefighter 
to be killed in action during the entire 
120-year history of the Pittsburgh Fire 
Department.
This was the worst disaster since six 
firefighters fell into a tank filled with 
boiling wax around 70 years ago.
There were two additional firefighters 
who were also injured in Tuesdays 
blaze. They were just treated for biunps 
and bruises. The third suffered from 
smoke inhalation.
i * III
Justice Dept, to question cabinet
WASHINGTON, February 16 (DJ) 
- The Justice Department has opened 
a preliminary criminal investigation of 
Commerce Secretary Ron Browns per
sonal financial dealings.
The decision, disclosed by Attorney 
General Janet Reno, means the depart
ment has found specific and credible 
allegations that Brown may have com
mitted a federal felony.
The preliminary investigation was 
opened yesterday. The department has 
90 days from then to decide whether 
there is enough evidence to ask a spe
cial court to name an independent pros
ecutor to conduct a full criminal inves
tigation.
The special court, acting under the 
independent counsel law, authorized 
Reno to announce the move and said 
only that the investigation covered al
legations that have been widely re
ported by the news media. The depart
ment also is looking into whether there 
is enough evidence to seek appoint
ment of a special prosecutor to investi
gate Housing Secretary Henry Cisneros 
for payments to a former mistress.
Late last month, Senator Lauch 
Faircloth of North Carolina and 13 
other Senate Republicans asked the de
partment if it was looking into possible 
criminal violations by Brown. Later, 22 
House Republicans wrote to Clinton stat
ing that Brown should be forced to re
sign because of the actions that is be
lieved he took part in.
Faircloth has questioned whether 
Brown violated federal disclosure re
quirements for cabinet officers and pos
sibly evaded taxes in a series of transac
tions with former business partners. 
Most questions about Browns business 
dealings have concerned his complex 
financial relationship with Washington 
businesswoman Nolanda Hill.
They were partners in a communica
tions company called First International 
Communications Corp., but Brown di
vested his interest in the company about 
a year after becoming Commerce Secre
tary.
Brown said he served a limited role in 
advising Hill on various business trans
actions, but he has acknowledged receivingmore than $400,000in payments 
from her, including a $37,000 loan that 
Hill forgave and $190,000 that she paid 
to assist him in paying off some of his 
personal debts.
Gunman found guilty of murder
MINEOIA, N.Y., February 17Co 
Ferguson was convicted of murderii 
six commuter train passengers. He 
fused to plead insanity and instei 
launched his own bizarre defense again 
the charges. The jury deliberated 
hours before returning the verdict. ] 
was also convicted on 22 counts of 
tempted murder, weapons possessii 
and reckless endangerment. Howevi 
he was also acquitted of 25 counts 
civil rights violations. He was charg 
with choosing victims because of ran 
since evidence against Ferguson, who 
black, included notes expressing hatr. 
of whites and Asians.
News Briefs Courtesy Dow Jones News Services
Briefs compiled by 
Max Chittister
University Center 
stays on schedule
CONSTRUCTION, from page 1
irritation of the construction. 
Adam Klivans, sophomore ECE 
major, said, The construction 
of the new University Center 
has been a major obstacle by 
taking me longer to get to class 
and less time for sleep.
But other students are will
ing to put up with the irrita
tion. Lester Manzano, sopho
more psychology major said, 
We really need a student cen
ter for the campus. I dont think 
I appreciated Skibo until it was 
gone.
Restaurants comply with ruling
Corrections...
In the front page caption, Ben Bostwick was identified as the 
Vice Chair of Student Senate. Bostwick is the Senate Secretary.
In the article entitled, Boar brings in Chinese New Year, 
Haw Juin Lin was described as a CS major. He is a junior ECE 
major.
On the front page of the Living section, the caption for the 
bottom right hand photo detailed that some people at the Beaux 
Arts Ball were dressed as statues. The picture actually depicted 
the group NOW.
In the column, Ancient Chinese Secrets, the restaurant was 
misspelled to read Szechuan. The actual spelling is Sichuan.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an 
error, please contact Lauren Heinz at x8-21ll, or write her in 
care of The Tartan.
CMDS, from page 1
Indian food available on campus 
on Monday.
Hamlin explained that by sell
ing a la carte, the two restau
rants operations had changed 
from a delivery service to a con
cession operation. Unfortunately, 
he said, rumors were spreading 
that CMDS was trying to shut 
down delivery operations to the 
campus.
We at no time said that we 
wanted to cease delivering food 
on campus, he said. That is not 
the issue. The issue is the way 
their food is being delivered, and 
the fact that they have, to our 
opinion, crossed the line from de
livering food to establishing a food 
concession on campus.
Srees husband, who refused to 
identify himself beyond Mr. 
Sree, denied that was the case. 
We never did that, he said. We 
just take our food, deliver it, and 
go home.
When asked if he had sold ex
tra food, he said No. No. One 
hundred percent no, and declined 
to comment further. His wife also 
declined to comment. Singh, how
ever, admitted that he brought
extra food. Thats true. ... We 
were bringing extras, but were 
not bringing extras any more.
Hamlin said University policy 
dictates that for a restaurant to 
be recognized as an on-campus 
vendor, it must follow the pre
ferred vendor process and be au
thorized by the University.
Theres a process you have to 
follow to do business anywhere, 
he said about the University regu
lations. We want to have that 
type of food on campus. It is in 
our vested interest to have as 
many people as possible using 
the facilities on campus, so we 
have no reason not to allow ven
dors on campus. But in order for 
a food services vendor to come on 
campus, they would have to go 
through a competitive process.
The other problem Hamlin had 
with the restaurants was the way 
they were transporting their hot 
food.
He said they were usingplastic 
tubs that did not maintain the 
heat level of the food, rather than 
thermal containers that would 
maintain the appropriate tem
perature.
Hamlin claimed the cooling of
the food during transportation 
and delivery posed a potential 
health risk.
Sree had agreed to purchase 
the appropriate containers before 
resuming delivery service, 
Hamlin said. Singh said that he 
would look into purchasing the 
containers, and if the cost was 
practical, he would do so.
They are telling me... I am not 
using appropriate dishes forheating, said Singh, and they are 
right. If they are telling me [to 
buy containers that are too ex
pensive] Ill just drop the whole 
thing.
Jan Steingart, the training of
ficer for the food protection divi
sion of the Allegheny County 
HealthDepartment, saidthathot 
food must be kept at 140 degrees 
Fahrenheit to avoid temperature 
abuse.
Typically, a food has to be tem
perature abused for three to four 
hours to cause problems, but [not 
maintaining the temperature] is 
still a violation, she said. It 
would still have to be tempera
ture abused for quite some time 
... truly, if it was only abused for 
[half an hour to an hour] it would
constitute no health hazard.
Hamlin said the distribution 
was taking roughly 45 minutes, 
while Srees Foods, from 
Sharpsburg, might take half 
hour to 45 minutes to transport 
the food to campus. Taste of In. 
dia, located in the city, also did 
not take very long to transport 
the food.
Nevertheless, Steingart said,il 
the food sat for another hour 
two, there would be a risk of food 
poisoning because of the time it 
had already cooled.
Ultimately, however, Hamlin 
said he was satisfied that tie 
situation had resolved itseE 
Where we are with these guysis 
were [writing] a memo of agree
ment that authorizes [them] Mon
day to re-begin delivering their 
products to an agreed-upon drop 
site, he said.
There is no University or Din
ing Services policy against deliv
eries on campus, but we have ai 
obligation as a department, andl 
as a department head, to insure 
they are following health regula
tions, and if theyre vending, they 
go through the [appropriate] proSUMMER RESEARCH PROGRAM
Sponsored by
The Department of Pharmacology 
University of Pittsburgh  School of Medicine
and
The American Society for Pharmacology 
and Experimental Therapeutics
The Department of Pharmacology, University of Pittsburgh, announces the 
availability of summer research jobs for undergraduates. Students who will be 
juniors or seniors in the Fall of 1995 are eligible. This 10-week program, begin
ning June 5,1995, is jointly funded by the department and a grant from the 
American Society of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Students 
will work as research assistants in laboratories of participating faculty members. 
The program also includes seminars on topics in pharmacology and a Research 
Presentation Day at the end of the program. Students will receive a $2,000 sti
pend for the summer program.
To apply, submit a resume including name, address, telephone number, school, 
expected year of graduation, major, grade point average, names of completed 
college-level science and math courses, laboratory experience, a short statement 
of career goals, and two letters of reference to: Ms. Bonnie L. Schiavone, Summer 
Program Coordinator, Department of Pharmacology, University of Pittsburgh, PA 
15261. Deadline: March 27,1995.
THE ELLIS SCHOOL SYMPOSIUM
ANNA QUINDLEN
2, 6:30 P.M. Anna Quindlen - journalist, author, mother 
Hyatt Regency Hotel Downtown - $20.00
and/or
9:00 A.M. Learning Today, Leading Tomorrow -
-3:30 P.M. Young Women on the Brink of a New Millennium
Programs for parents and girls (grades 4-8) 
panel * workshops * sports * activities
FOR TICKETS AND INFORMATION, CALL 
412-661-5946

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 February 19953
Student Government President resigns from office
Who will be the 
next President?
With the resignation of Student 
Government President Declan 
McCullagh on Friday, Student Sen
ate is left with the task of filling the 
vacancy.
Section V, Part A of the Senate 
bylaws covers the resignation of an 
elected official. It states "Anyelected 
official may resign by submitting his 
resignation to the Chair of Student 
Senate, who must notify Student 
Senate of the resignation at the next 
meeting of Student Senate.
The question regarding the vacant 
presidency is: Who will step in and 
complete the term? In Section VI. 
Part B1 of the bylaws, it reads, The 
immediate successor for the Presi
dential seat is the Chair of Student 
Senate." Burt Holzman, Chair of 
Senate currently holds that position 
and has stated that he does not 
want the job. The bylaws state that, 
In case the chair declines the posi
tion, the presidency will be offered to 
the chairs of the standing Student 
Senate committees. The next in line 
would be Brenden Mielke, IM fresh
man and Chair of StudentAffairs. He 
also has stated that he will not ac
cept the position.
The remaining committees, in or-I
der, are as follows: Academic Affairs 
Committee, Human Resources Com
mittee, Public Relations Committee, 
and Funding and Recognition Com
mittee. Currently, these posts are 
held, in order, by Kami White, H&SS 
sophomore; Troy Benowitz, H&SS 
senior; Eduardo Gonzalez, H&SS 
freshman; and Merle Atkinson, CIT 
senior. There will be a discussion of 
this topic, at todays Ex-Com meet
ing and also during Tuesday's Stu
dent Senate Meeting.
 Max Chittlster
RESIGNATION, from page 1
finally going to get [him] out from the 
head of our Senate, said Mike Hurwitz, 
H&SS freshman.
Ive known Declan since early Sep
tember ... I think its frightening, the 
questions coming from the Senators... I 
definitely think thats something hard 
to get through, said Julie Crowell, Stu
dent Government Board President at 
the University of Pittsburgh..
Its veiy sad, said Mielke. Its done 
a great deal of damage to the campus 
community. Jim Powell, Student Gov
ernment President at Duquesne, said, 
Its a shock, almost a misfortune. Were 
there for him.
Senators were unaware of the agenda 
for the meeting, which was called late in 
the week by McCullagh. He handed in 
his written agenda a few minutes before 
the meeting began.
Before announcing his resignation, 
McCullaghs meeting took the form of an 
awards ceremony. I would like to thank 
the people with whom I have worked... 
for their efforts as student leaders. 
Among the leaders were Michael 
Breen, who headed the Scotland Yard 
Task Force, Martin Dixon of AB Tech, 
and Holzman. McCullagh then recog
nized other leaders, A number of other 
people have been excellent student lead
ers in... outstanding efforts at bringing 
the campus together. These people in
cluded Tim Mallo, Kami White, Michael 
Loomis, Crowell, and a representative 
from Duquesne. Each received an award.
McCullagh also highlighted his ac
complishments during his term as Presi
dent. These included, establishing office 
hours with Robert Mehrabian, Presi
dent of the University, reopening Scot
land Yard and reorganizing the disci
plinary process.
McCullagh further defended his char
acter by sharing letters he had received 
from other leaders. The first one, dated 
February 16, was from Christine DeVere, 
Student Body President at Chatam Col
lege. It is very encouraging to work 
with a student body president who has 
as much motivation and concern as 
Declan ... I strongly feel his leadership 
and character are beyond question.
The second letter was sent to Bill 
Elliott, VP for Enrollment, from the Of
fice ofthe President of the United States. 
It thanked McCullagh for his work on 
the Democratic campaign and stated 
that, [McCullagh] was direct and hon
est ... [and] has integrity. Two addi
tional letters were sent from cabinet 
members. However, they were not avail
able for the meeting.
McCullaghs resignation is the final 
step in a series of events which have 
unfolded since December. McCullagh 
was convicted of harassment in a Pitts
burgh court after being arrested on De
cember 5 on a domestic violence charge. 
Donna Riley, a graduate student in en
gineering and public policy, brought 
charges up against McCullagh after he 
allegedly pushed her down a flight of 
stairs. He was charged with simple as
sault but pled guilty to harassment.
At the first Senate Meeting following 
the release ofthe details of McCullaghs 
arrest, Atkinson made a motion to im
peach the Student Government Presi
dent. The motion required a three-fifths 
majority to pass; it failed by a vote oflO10-1.
McCullaghs use ofthe Corporate Card 
for food expenditures was also brought 
into question. As detailed in Gosdens 
report, McCullagh spent $1,026.88 be
tween September and December of last 
semester on mealssome including the 
purchase of alcoholic beverages. As of 
February 12, McCullagh had yet to ex
plain five of them, which totaled in ex
cess of $100. At the February 4 Senate 
meeting, McCullaghs status as a stu
dent was brought into question. While 
McCullagh has paid his Activities Fee, 
he is not enrolled. Sources say he has 
been administratively withdrawn.
Currently, there is no definite succes
sor for the Presidency. Both Holzman 
and Mielke have commented that they 
do not want the position. The situation 
will be addressed Tuesday at the next 
Senate meeting.
[Ed. Note - Tartan Assistant News 
Editor Max Chittister, and Tartan Editor-in-Chief Lauren Heinz assisted with 
this article.]
The following letter was submitted as a Letter to the Editor 
from Student Government President, Declan McCullagh.
To the Editor:
It is with great sadness that I write to tell you that I've decided to resign as President 
ofthe Student Body. For the last 10 months, I've taken every opportunity to serve the 
student body, and I believe I've served the student body well.
It is my fond hope that Student Government will continue the projects I've started, 
including the new Scotland Yard, President Mehrabians open office hours, the 
Squirrel Hill shuttle, and especially the fight against censorship.
I've been forced to resign for legal reasons. But some ofthe loudest voices calling 
for my resignation have done so notfor genuine reasons, but for personal and political 
ones. Id like to request that in the future, my political opponents spend more time 
helping the student body than attacking their enemies.
I'd like to thank my associates, friends, family, and my counterparts at other 
Pittsburgh universities for their support and encouragement during the last year. Id 
also like to thank TheTartanfor providing me with this opportunity to express my views 
one last time to the student body. Finally, I'd like to thank the campus community for 
their involvement In Improving the quality of student life at our University.
Sincerely,
Declan McCullagh
President of the Student Body
Carnegie Mellon University
President highlights personal accomplishments
When Declan McCullagh resigned as Stu
dent Government President on Friday, he left 
office having accomplished many of the 
goals he set when he ran last April.
Ive taken every opportunity to serve the 
student body of Carnegie Mellon University, 
he said in an interview Saturday. Everything 
I've done has been to strengthen the stu
dent body ... and even the misrepresenta
tion of my detractors cannot take away the 
good ive done for our University."
McCullagh said that, his recent legal diffi
culties notwithstanding, he was still very 
much against the current disciplinary pro
cess. "Ive criticized the University disciplin
ary procedure for oyer a year, he said. I 
don'tthink its fairto students, and it's often 
abused for personal and political gain."
Ail that is not to say McCuilagh doesn't 
have regrets. I was elected to serve the 
student body, not kowtow to ... political 
opponents.... I find it interesting  but not 
surprising  to note that the people who 
have been most vocal in opposition to me 
are also in line for the presidency. My oppo
nents should spend more time helping the 
student body than attacking their enemies.''
McCullagh said the two things he is proud
est of accomplishing during his 10-month
tenure are organizing the November rally 
against censorship, and going to the open
ing night of Scotland Yard on January 20.
It was and is an important cause," 
McCullagh said of censorship. The adminis
tration made some hasty decisions without 
consulting the students, and without con
sulting student government, and I helped 
mobilize student resistance to their efforts. 
The re-opening of Scotland Yard in Morewood 
Gardens was also personally satisfying to 
McCullagh. I'm glad students are enjoying 
the Yard," he said. Im proud that I was able 
to work with other students and administra
tors and start a project that benefits the 
student body. "McCullagh also talked about 
fulfilling the campaign promises he made 
last April, citing his Work on creating a Squir
rel Hill shuttle, improving communication on 
campus, and reforming the UDC process as 
promises he made, and did his bestto keep. 
"I believe Ive served the student body well, " 
he said. I resigned for legal reasons, and 
generally, Im very happy with th interaction 
I've had with students and members of the 
University community here," he said. Being 
president ofthe student body... has been a 
tremendous experience.
 Eric Strauss
SER SRVEICPCle
Theirs. Ours.
First relational database. First to implement SQL. First portable database software. First database compatible with massively parallel computing. First database
to perform 1,000 transactions per second. First cooperative-server database. But Oracle is not just about databases. Were also leaders in advanced
networking. CASE, application development, office automation, development tools, multimedia. You can see, were also about success.
BS/MS CS/EE. You can become a: Software Developer  Technical Analyst  Consultant  Product Manager
Well be on campus February 15 & 16. E-mail your resume TODAY!
ORACLE
Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065- E-mail: lslynn@us.oracle.com / FAX: 415-506-1073 / PHONE: 415-506-6991

---------------------------------------------------

What are the first two hundred 
Microsoft employees doing right now?
Probably anything they want to do.
You were 12 years old when Microsoft was founded  
you have no excuse for allowing the opportunity to pass you by again...
TRILOGY
So WHAT?
At Trilogy, you will be working on the leading 
edge of high tech with the most advanced tech
nologies. You will be developing the products 
that will create the software industry of the next 
century. You will be working with the most 
powerful companies in the world to re-engineer 
business processes enterprise wide. You will be 
working in the coolest company in the world.
With just over 100 people, Trilogy is one of the 
fastest growing companies in the country. In the 
five years since our founding, Trilogy has estab
lished itself as the next major force in enterprise 
software. Our Enterprise Sales and Marketing 
system is "changing the way business is done" 
(Wall Street Journal) in companies like Boeing, 
AT&T, IBM, Hewlett Packard, and American Air
lines.
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE SEND EMAIL TO ALEXA.LANGE@TRILOGY.COM 
6034 WEST COURTYARD DRIVE, SUITE 130, AUSTIN, TEXAS, 78730, (512) 794-5900, FAX (512) 794-8900
oV/ UR BREAKTHROUGH TECHNOLOGY...
Our patented technology is unparalleled in the 
industry. Our revolutionary applications utilize 
data from manufacturing, engineering, and mar
keting at the point of sale, empowering sales 
people to sell consultatively and drive revenue.
Is THE COOLEST IN THE INDUSTRY.
We are one of the only companies implementing 
true three-tiered client-servers. Our object-ori
ented technology and multiprocessing capabili
ties are setting the standards for speed, scaleability 
and maintainablity. Because Trilogy's mission is 
to develop the coolest technology in the world, 
our product suite expands quarterly with break
through technologies developed at Trilogy.

---------------------------------------------------

Campus Interviews
March 9,1995
OLDE, America's Full Service Discount Broker5 is 
looking for motivated people to establish a career in 
the brokerage business.
OLDE offers:
12-18 month paid training program 
Potential six-figure income 
Excellent benefits
If you possess excellent communication skills, general 
market knowledge and the desire to excel, sign up for 
an on-campus interview on March 9,1995 in the Career 
Center. If you are unable to arrange an interview call:
1 800 937-0606
or send resume to:
OLDE Discount Stockbrokers 
National Recruiting 
751 Griswold Street 
Detroit, MI 48226
Probal
DISCOUNT STOCKBROKERSMember NYSE and SIPC 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Pre sideniedt
How TO REALLY DO IT.
Available at Your Campus Bookstorei WILEY
SUMMER JOBS
Responsible, mature 
individuals needed 
to work with children, 
teens, and adults with 
physical disabiiities.
Salary 
Room and Board 
Near Pittsburgh
Counselors 
Unit Coordinators 
Art-Drama instructor 
Workshop instructor 
WSI and lifeguards 
Tent camping instructor 
Janitor groundskeeper 
Kitchen staff 
Cooking instructor 
Adaptive sports instructor
CAMP VARIETY FOR SPINA BIFIDA
Spina Bifida Association of Western Pennsylvania 
1-800-243-5787 toll-free in PA or (412) 321-4900 outside PA
Lambda FoundationScholarshipProgram
$3,000 scholarships are available to any . 
full-time sophomore or junior student 
who has made a positive contribution 
toward the integration of Gay, Lesbian 
and Bisexual people, their culture or 
their organizations into the college or 
university community.
Deadline: April 15,1995 
Awards: July, 1995
Applications can be obtained 
through your student affairs 
office, financial aid office or by 
writing the Lambda Foundation.
The Lambda Foundation  PO Box 5169  Pgh, PA 15206  412-521-5444
Weve Made It Easier For The Class Of 95 To Drive The Class Of 95.
THE ALL NEW TOYOTA TERCEL
Dual Air 
Bags
More Power
More Safety 
Features
Side Door 
Impact Beams
Better Gas 
Mileage
AND THE TOYOTA COLLEGE GRAD PROGRAM.
Theres no better way to enter the work force than behind the wheel of the all-new, always dependable Toyota Tercel.
And it's easy with Toyota's special college graduate program... you getToyotas premier rate", no down payment, no payments for 90 days"-, 
and a year of free roadside assistance. Just see your participating Toyota dealer for all the details.
WERE MAKING IT EASIER FOR COLLEGE GRADS.
 COLLEGE GRADUATE PROGRAM FINANCED THROUGH TOYOTA MOTOR CREDIT CORPORATION S 60 MONTH PREMIER RATE. " TOTAL FINANCED CANNOT EXCEED MSRP PLUS OPTIONS. TAX fir) TOYOTA
AND LICENSE FEES. FINANCING AVAILABLE WITH APPROVED CREDIT THROUGH TOYOTA MOTOR CREDIT CORPORATION. DEFERRED FINANCE CHARGES ACCRUE FROM THE CONTRACT OATE 
SEE PARTICIPATING DEALER FOR DETAILSI Love What You Do For Me
carnegie
mellnis your link to FUN!
Concerts, Films, 
Belly
LIVE
Social Distortion 
They Might Be Giants 
John Wesley Harding 
Barbara Bailey Hutchinson
Dennis Barrie 
John Zorn 
Ramones
<D
to
cn
-o
<Do
S
m
<o
3
to
Oc
g;
o'
rt1
<
Oo
3
O<D
3.to
3to
Be a part of the action! 
Join thelActivities Board
Pick up an application to apply for 
a board position at the Information 
Desk in the Student Center
Lectures, Special Events, Concerts, Films, Lectures

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University20 February 1995
Dining Services must 
provide healthier meals
Its entertaining sometimes to 
watch how Dining Services gets 
the most use out of its food; 
Mondays meatloaf turning into 
meatballs by Wednesday, turn
ing into the meat sauce covering 
your spaghetti by Thursday, 
turning into chili by the close of 
the week. While such evolutions 
may be economic, they are not 
creative. Students need more 
variety in their campus dining. 
While individual Dining Ser
vices employees may take great 
care in preparing food, we wish 
they could offer a more nutri
tious variety.
With the construction of the 
new Student Center in progress, 
Dining Services has taken the 
necessary steps to reorganize 
their facilities for the accommo
dation of large numbers of stu
dents at one time. However, 
there are many other changes 
that should implemented. With 
this in mind, Dining Services 
must remember its main pur
pose: to provide the campus com
munity with nutritious and 
wholesome meals at a reason
able price.
Dining services must also be 
sensitive to students various 
schedules to better serve the stu
dent community. Many students 
are forced to eat dinner late due 
to evening classes, labs, studios, 
and extracurricular activities 
such as student organizations, 
meetings, and employment. The 
Corner Oven and Entropy are 
the only on-campus dining fa
cilities open at late hours of the 
night for students to eat. These 
students find themselves with 
very few options and mostly find '
themselves seeking other eating 
establishments outside of cam
pus, thus defeating the purpose 
of a meal plan.
Vegetarians at this school are 
also severely limited in their 
eating choices  with Salads 
Plus gone from Skibo, no eatery 
specializes in vegetarian cuisine. 
Almost every meal at Highlander 
has a chicken or meat base. Veg
etarians trying to dine on cam
pus usually end up eating un
balanced meals.
Dining Services has proven it
self capable of preparing healthy 
and nutritious foods with vari
ety in the faculty dining lounge. 
Its daily menu provides faculty 
members with a choice of fresh 
fruits and salads, freshly pre
pared entrees reminiscent of 
home-cooking, and a wide range 
of deserts - a contrast to what is 
being served to students. If Din
ing Services is capable of pre
paring such well-crafted meals 
to faculty, why cant students 
eat as well?
On-campus diningfacilities are 
an important aspect of CMU resi
dence life. Meal times are a good 
time for students to temporarily 
put aside stress and socialize 
with friends. Providing quality 
food would enhance this experi
ence. Given the dissatisfaction 
that many students have con
cerning residential life, CMU 
should take a more proactive role 
in reevaluating Dining Services 
for students. It is the responsi
bility of this university to guar
antee its students a good educa
tion. This can be enriched 
through a healthy state of mind 
and body.
Academic advising 
varies across colleges
The H&SS Academic Advisory 
Center (AAC) provides unde
clared H&SS students with an 
academic advisor from the sum
mer before their freshman year 
until they declare a major. At 
that point, they are assigned an 
advisor within their chosen de
partment. The AAC does an ex
cellent job in providing Humani
ties students with a central of
fice which can answer questions 
concerning the General Educa
tion program, or the best plan 
for completing your major early. 
Even after students declare a 
major, they can still use the AAC 
to pick up currant information 
about H&SS, receive grades, or 
just talk.
The H&SS advising model is 
an effective one because it pro
vides incoming students with a 
counselor frqm day one. H&SS is 
the only college that gives its 
students the freedom to set up 
their own schedule. This can be 
fairly overwhelming for a stu
dent who has just graduated 
from high school.
The other colleges at the Uni
versity either practice an open 
door policy on advising or pro
vide one advisor for an entire 
major All architecture majors 
share the same advisor, as do 
students in SCS. This is true for 
several other departments 
within each college. This can be 
helpful for students because of
 ' I I'l \ iK-1' !l" u f 11 A * '-1
Letters to the Editor
Article lacked 
level of analysis
i
Student Center Room 10
the flexibility  they may stop 
by whenever the need arises.
Although an open door policy 
may be effective because of its 
flexibility, some advisors become 
too overrun with work of their 
own to provide adequate service. 
Some advisors teach one to two 
classes during the semester, and 
are the directors of some part of 
the department. With too many 
undergraduates to worry about, 
they may not have the time to sit 
down and work out a schedule.
Creating more advisors within 
departments will help students 
and advisors get to know each 
other, and make the advisor a 
more effective presence in the 
students academic career.
H&SS also sets up a manda
tory advising day, where stu
dents can work out the nuances 
of their schedule.
The H&SS model of advising is 
an effective way to get students 
help in the areas of creating their 
schedules, and discussing any 
academic problems that they 
may have. This system starts 
before the student even arrives 
on campus as a freshman, and 
continues until they graduate. 
With a small number of advisees, 
the advisor has a chance to be
come familiar with the student. 
The other colleges at CMU 
should look carefully at their 
advising system and learn what 
is best for the student.
Editor:
I think its wonder
ful to see opinionated 
writing in The Tar- Letter tO 
tan; it certainly does Erf!*.
make for more inter- fcullOr
esting reading. Un
fortunately, I feel that Paul Tabachneck 
and Natalie Wochele failed to elevate 
their article [2/13, Beaux Arts Ball: 
after the hype] from categorical whin
ing to that credible level of analysis.-
The reason? Quite simply, theres an 
obvious lack of factual information and 
journalistic research. For instance, Im 
sure people reading the article would 
have liked to have known that the Ball 
organizers did make an attempt to get 
Luscious Jackson as a headline act; it 
turned out that Luscious Jackson was 
on tour in Europe. Previous headline 
acts included King Missile in 1993 and 
the Volcano Suns and Royal Crescent 
Mob in 1990. The last Ball at which 
alcohol was served was in 1986. Thou
sands of dollars in destructive damage 
was done to the College of Fine Arts 
building, making future wet Beaux Arts 
Balls an impossibility.
This information is far from arcane 
and probably could have been found in 
The Tartans archives. In a move to 
strengthen sales, many of the organiz
ers themselves bought tickets.
Facts help give strength to a writers 
opinions; without them, a piece becomes 
mere sour-grapes rambling.
Did Tabachneck and Wochele make 
any attempt to contact any of the Ball 
organizers for their side of the story or to 
question them about the bands or the 
quality of food? For instance, were they 
expecting higher quality catering than 
they got? Perhaps they could have solved 
the mystery of the human statues; 
these performers were mentioned sev
eral times, yet nobody thought it impor
tant to find out who they were. (Just for 
your edificationthe human statues 
were members of a performance group 
called NOW. They were even listed in 
the program.) As members of the media, 
it was the writersjob to be informed; an 
uninformed article runs a risk of sound
ing foolish and sloppy.
Aside from two quotes from other 
party-goers, there was no other primary 
source corroboration in the whole ar
ticle. This lack of outside information 
ends up putting more weight on the 
writers opinions, thus making things 
like misspellingEpicurean" all the more 
embarrassing. If I had told them that I 
had a great time at the Beaux Arts Ball, 
would Tabachneck and Wocheles head
line Ball disappoints patroris been mis
leading? Large categorical statements 
which project the writers opinions onto 
a larger group show a lack of responsi
bility.
I might have understood if these mis
takes had come from some junior staff 
writer, but this story was written by the 
section editors. I certainly hope 
Tabachneck and Wochele will take their 
responsibilities more seriously in future 
articles and make the effort to do a little 
background research, as this article has 
the feel of something breezed off in the 
last minute. There is much more Id like
to say, but as this is an inappropriate 
forum for lengthy explanations, please 
see my essay in the forthcoming issue of 
The Student Union.
Lenny Young 
Masters Student 
Music
Student Senate 
Chair responds
Writer's welfare 
views rebuked
Letters to the Editer 
Student Center Roeen :
Letter to 
the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
As Chair of the Stu
dent Senate, I take 
issue withlast weeks 
editorial [2/13, Stu
dent Senate must be 
more responsive.] I 
understand The Tartans frustration 
with Student Senate not taking action 
on facts presented to them at a meeting, 
and I must take some of the blame. I 
have tried to slow down legislation 
passed through Student Senate. His
torically, legislation that is passed too 
quickly has caused problems because of 
reasons you mentioned in the editorial: 
Senators lack of knowledge of the facts 
and not getting their constituents opin
ions. This resulted in the chaos sur
rounding the ROTC resolution three 
years ago, the lengthy debate on remov
ing funding from the Voices United Gos
pel Choir, the time it took to pass the 
resolution on bulletin board censorship, 
and many other controversial issues. 
Senators and the general public need 
time to go through the myriad of infor
mation, and to speak with their con
stituency on issues that are raised.
I also feel that The Tartan misquoted 
my statement to Student Senate that 
they should not give in to undue pres
sure from their constituents. What I 
said at the meeting was that I would be 
available to help Senators make the 
difficult transition from private to pub
lic life. This stemmed from an incident 
in which a Senator was verbally ha
rassed by a student. I agree that Sena
tors need to listen to their constituents, 
but when members of the public are 
nasty, I offer my help on how to deal 
with belligerent students and use their 
comments as constructive criticism.
In regard to the running of the meet
ings, I welcome any input from Senate 
and members of the public. Ive seen 
Senate run under looser agendas com
pared to the ones Ive kept. To be honest, 
after seeing six full semesters of Senate 
meetings, mine are more effective. If a 
student needs to speak, they can always 
ask to be on the agenda. If they are not 
able to be at the meeting during Audi
ence Participation, I allow them to speak 
at an appropriate time when they are at 
the meeting.
Finally, in regards to restricting the 
Student Government bboard, your edi
torial is the first news Ive heard about 
restricting access. Ive never advocated 
such a change, and neither has the full 
Student Senate. If any member of the 
student body has concerns about Stu
dent Senates procedures and agendas, 
I welcome you to call me at 862-3901 or 
email me at bhlt@andrew.cmu.edu.
Burt Holzman 
Chair, Student Senate 
CIT
Editor:
I feel obliged to dis
cuss Matt Balls mis
conceptions on wel
fare reform. I am re
ferring to poverty as 
a social phenomenon 
which can be reduced to a demographic 
question. In one of his recent articles, 
Ball defended the link between accessto 
welfare benefits and compulsory use of 
contraceptive methods. Behind such pro
posals lies the idea that poverty is a 
demographic problem and, hence, the 
best way to fight it is to slow down the 
growth of the poor population, often 
using schemes which clearly violate in
dividual rights and personal choice. 
Therefore, high rates of population 
growth and a large youth population 
represent a burden on scarce resources 
available, particularly in developing 
countries. However, it is misleading to 
see population growth as the primary 
source of poverty, ignoring other rel
evant factors. Women have been steril
ized in many developing countries dur
ing the past 40 years. Although the 
population growth did slow down (not 
only because of government policies, but 
also the urbanization of the population 
and wider access to information and 
medical resources), the reduction of pov
erty has been less evident. Many struc
tural problems that led to poverty in 
developing countries (such as highlyunequal income distribution, concentra
tion of the property of the land, or poor 
macroeconomic policies which trimmed 
potential growth) were left mostly in
tact. Without structural change, popu
lation control is almost meaningless. In 
the United States, we can note that 
inequality has been a product of wider 
wage differentials between skilled a 
unskilled labor and difficulties in real
location of the work force in declining 
industries. These are symptoms of a 
broader transition from a traditional 
mass-production, inward-oriented in
dustrial economy to a post-industrial 
society based on services, high-tech 
manufacturing and global competition. 
The welfare system should not be i 
as means of encouraging irresponsible 
behavior or to corrupt the work ethic. 
However, rather than focus on povertJi 
as a demographic problem and insist or 
the imposition of contraceptive meth
ods to single mothers, public policies 
should focus on issues that make a dif
ference. Namely, better public educa
tion or job training aimed at providing 
skills for the new global economy. Likewise, one should not forget the histori
cal discrimination of minorities. Balls 
proposal of the imposition of contracep
tion to welfare recipients is outrageous. 
Even more outrageous js that 
like Ball (a PhD student in engineering 
and public policy) may one day be in
volved in the design of public policies. 
Its clear that Ball is a neoconservative, 
with ideas that may even be labeled 
neofascist, although he tries to hide be
hind a pseudoliberal discourse.
Marcelo G.S. Bruno 
Graduate student 
ECE

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 February 19957
'Wat i

A j
few
Lfff
' j
.. .
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, John Biggs, Andrew 
McDermott
Staffwriters 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, Eric 
Applewhite, Steven Burns, Darren 
Chiapetta, Carey Clevenger, 
Mahua Dutta, Dan Goldwasser, 
Anuj Gupta, Michelle Hall, Tom 
Harper, Jason Helnlein, Vladimir 
Labeikovsky, Laura McClure, 
David Osorio, Suzanne Paddock, 
Ronak Singhal, Jon Slenk, James 
Stepanek, Lance Thomas, Bill 
Vandermark, Sharmila Venkatasubban, Dawn Wallhausen, Su
san Watson, John Weber, Heather 
Zindle, Corey Zlnn
Art
Justin Carroll, Mark Eggert, Amy 
Haupl, Jen Zieserl
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Robert Brunskill, Nick 
Casclato Jr., Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowitz, Christopher Nelson, 
Jackson Tam, David White
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Tushar Dubey, Rob 
Earhart, Bassem El-Dasher, Kerry 
Hagan, Janet Lee, Pat Prasangslt, 
Jason Siegendorf, Jackson Tam, 
Maria Valenti
Darkroom 
Rachel Noack, Margaret Stallings, 
Jen Urso
Production 
Heather Alexander, Lester 
Manzano, Carrie McDonough, 
Elizabeth Neuman, Katie Swango
Copy
Lori Bowes, Shira Feldman, 
Madhav Ghanta, D. Renee 
Hairston, Winter Mason, Diane 
Ohm, Ed Slavishak, Richard 
Smolen, Roger Wang, M. J. Wilson
Business 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chlntan
Shah
Junior Staff 
Ido Ben-Shachar, Christine Brill, 
Christy L. Callahan, Trlcia Davis, 
Beth Gariano, Michael Gartland, 
Vernon Harmon, Conal Ho, Esther 
Jimnez, Adam Klivans, Tim 
Kniveton, David Koran, April C. 
Moate, Victor Ortega, Nicole Poisson, Sudhir Reddy, Emily 
Rosenthal, Aaron Weisberg
Ttia Tartan Is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon Univer
sity. It Is a weekly newspaper published by students during tno fall 
and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the University 
community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing. Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. 
Trte editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section 
are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and 
political cartoon* are the opinions of Individual creators. The 
Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or 
political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of the University 
community. A 'otter intended for publication must be signed and 
Include 'Xe writer's address and ptone number for verification. 
Names may Du v.ithheld upco request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer tnan 500 words. Tho Tartan reserves the right 
to condense or reject any letter. Copyright 01995 by The Tartan. 
Tho Tartan .tlitorial board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy It deems unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegle Mellon University/ 
Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890 
Funded In part by your Activities Fee.
Ail rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN 8:0890-3107.
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-In-Chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager.........Amlt Kar
News Ed.................Edward Hayes
Forum Editor.....Kristine Hinrichs
Sports Editor.... Matthew Solitro 
Features Co-Eds. Shannon Gibney 
Jonmichaei L.T. Moy
Div. Editor........Paul Tabachneck
Calendar Ed......Roula Abdel-Baki
Dossier Dsgn. Ed.Brockett Horne 
Dossier Lit. Ed. .. Adriane Seibert 
Acting Art Co-Eds.Gabrien Symons 
Franclne Gemperle
Photo Editor....................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr..........Derek Wahila
Personnel Mgr..........Angela Molloy
Copy Mgr...................Eric Strauss
Systems Mgr..........Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Ed.........Max Chittlster
Asst. Forum Ed. ... Lee Abernathy 
Asst. Sports Editor.. Paul Boothe
Asst. Div. Ed......Natalie Wochele
Asst. Prod. Mgr...............Kathy Liu
Photo Staff Mgr...........David Perry
Contributing Editors 
Samuel Greenfield, Abby Schiff, 
Andrew Sproule, Jason Togyer
CMU packed with annoying people
from that dreaded place. Yet I routinely 
waste valuable time there, waiting for 
some pasty-faced geek to copy a pile of 
books. After four
mind here, courtesy of a friend who  for 
reasons I cannot understand  wishes to 
remain anoymous. While trying to print
Abby Schiff
February is National Bitching Month, 
so in the spirit of patriotism and apple pie, 
let the complaining commence.
Today's topic is how to deal with annoy
ing people. Weve all encountered them. 
They populate the clusters. They infest 
the dorms. They masquerade as normal 
humans when it comes time to pick a 
roommate.
Obviously, they are a force to be reck
oned with, especially on this campus. So 
lets explore the ramifications of this grow
ing problem.
The way I see it, a person must satisfy 
two requirements in order to be classified
5 annoying. He or she must:
 Annoy others;
 Be someone besides me.
Alas, several CMU-affiliated persons 
have fulfilled both of these requirements 
lately.
Annoyance #1: The morons in Hunt 
Library who hog all the Xerox ma
chines. What, do these people live in the 
reference section? For my $24,000 a year, 
I shouldnt even have to go to the library; 
at the very least, I expect a speedy exit
years of this in
sanity, I am be
ginning to seri
ously question 
the concept of a 
1 ,000-copy 
Copicard.
Annoyance 
#2: Idiots who 
monopolize 
cluster print
ers. Not to harp 
on this $24,000 
thing, but I think 
Im entitled to 
print out my as
signmentsyes, 
five minutes be
fore theyre due 
 on one of 
CMlPs fine clus
ter printers. Yet 
time and again, 
inconsiderate us
ers print out ex
cess pageslike 
20 copies of a 10- 
page reportleavingme with an eternal 
Printer is spooling your document dia
log box on my screen. (Spool this, buddy.)
A tidbit of cluster folklore comes to
M
Franclne Gemperle/ Art
out a paper for a class, he confronted a 
dork printing a 500-question purity test; 
in a passive/aggressive maneuver that 
can only be described as brilliant, he sim
ply removed the printers paper cartridge.
It was a moment of triumph, but a 
fleeting one; like it or not, CMU is packed 
with annoying people of 
every type imaginable. 
Is there no escape from 
this insanity? Aside 
from expelling annoying 
folks  from the conti
nent, I mean  I cant 
think of anything off
hand besides a supermarket-style express 
printer and Xerox ma
chine. (Express this, 
buddy.)
Strange, isnt it, that 
in a school of 7,000 stu
dents, so many people 
manage to be so annoy
ing. Often I wonder 
whether the problem 
lies in the annoying 
masses, or with persons 
such as myself who are 
so easily irritated by 
them; I think, though, 
that its safe to say that 
its the masses fault. I 
dont know. Call it a 
hunch.
Abby Schiff is a Tartan Contributing 
Editor who cant believe she has to go to 
class on Presidents Day.Going beyond the mush of Valentines Day
World should not model after Rikki Lake Show
before closing time on February 
14. The consumer goods indus
try sure hopes so, because theyre 
making big bucks off of our de
sire for a quick Valentine fix. 
But cant we do better than that?
Now, theres one last detail 
about myself that I simply must 
admit to you. I dont have every
thing all figured out, and I prob
ably never will! But on the path 
towards the discovery of truth, 
Im trying to keep my mind open 
to whats happening around me 
and hopefully learn something 
about life.
This year on Valentines Day, 
the two lessons that Ill carry 
away are, first, that its impos
sible to prove the existence of 
Love in the same way you can 
demonstrate that x = y * z. Sec
ond, if youre searching for Love, 
you wont find it on a store shelf 
or in the pages of a catalog, even 
on the 14 of February.
Christy L. Callahan is a 
sophomore majoring in history.
not only made to feel uncomfortable, but 
you are also distracted from your work.
A few days ago I tried to write a paper 
in one of the clusters when two people 
decided to hold a therapy session about 
dealing with death in the family. I si
lently groaned at their severe lack of 
discretion, but figured that they wouldnt 
talk for too long. However, they talked 
for an enormous amount of time and felt 
the need to go into painful details. I tried 
Please see CONVERSATIONS, page 8
Students often need assis
tance in scheduling their 
passes and finding summer 
lnternships or permanent 
Jobs. Advisors can be very 
helpful for such activities. 
What do you think of your 
advisor?
Volus McKenna 
Freshman
Mechanical Engineering
Theres a general advisor for 
my department but I dont know 
who that is.
Jennifer Sweterlitsch 
Sophomore 
Chemical Engineering
Hes very accessible, I actually 
have him as a professor for one of 
my classes.
Jerry Baptiste
Freshman
Math
I just email or call them, its 
very easy.
Larry Mathers 
Senior
Chemical Engineering
Hes very accessible, cares a 
lot for his students and goes 
above and beyond the job title of 
advisor.
JChristy L Callahan
If you know anything at all 
about me, you know that I thrive 
on analyzing anything and ev
erything I can get my little eye3 on, from cereal boxes to 
Sleeping Beauty. Most recently, 
greeting cards have fallen prey 
to philosophical deliberations. 
Lets take, for example, the card 
my dad sent me for Valentines 
Left to my own introspec
tive devices, here are some of the 
thoughts that might flow through 
the old information cruncher on 
typical day:
Notice the pallor of the kitten 
on the cover of the card, repre
senting its navet as it sits arti
ficially poised on the pink cush
ion. Or what about the inscrip
tion inside of the card: Keeping
in Touch With a Friendly Hello, 
Cause its Valentines Day and 
Youre So Nice to Know! Well, 
yeah, its only normal  Im his 
daughter! Who is this guy any
way? Is he really my biological 
father or just an impostor? I do 
resemble him an awful lot, but 
what if my mother had an affair 
unbeknownst to me! Come to 
think of it, none of the individu
als who call themselves my fam
ily have ever proven their iden
tities. I know! Ill just make them 
all take genetic tests the next 
time I go to visit and that way Ill 
know for sure that their genetic 
code matches up to mine.
Theres just one pesky ques
tion. Do any of themmy family 
members, my friends, or my boy
friend  really love me? They 
seem to say so in word and in 
deed. After all, Ive never had to 
go hugless, homeless, or CMUtuitionless for very long. But 
when this guy, whoever he is, 
signs Love, Dad on a piece of 
dead tree, how do I know that its
not simply a trite expression of Elektra). Learning to love them, 
noncommittal male rhetoric, but and other people, didnt happen 
instead, a heartfelt revelation of at first sight. Rather, it has 
his true feelings for me? taken years for me and my loved
To find out the answer to these ones to learn how to grow toquestions and many more, Id 
have to stop using my head, and 
start using my heart a little more.
Isnt that what Valentines Day 
is all about? Candy hearts, red 
roses, and Cupids arrows? Maybe 
so ... but Im not particularly en
amored of my parents (Sorry to 
disappoint you, Oedipus and
gether through joy and suffer
ing, forgiving one another for the 
pain weve been caused along the 
way. Forrest Gumps mother 
would tell us that life is like a 
box of chocolates, but express
ing ones love is not as simple as 
buying a neatly-packaged 
Whitmans Sampler 15 minutes
follows this policy. There exist, to my 
great displeasure, people on this campus 
who feel the need to share their personal 
lives with everyone in earshot. Im not 
talking about your average loud talker. 
Nor am I talking about people who cant 
keep a secret. You can either time out or 
avoid people like that. Im talking about 
people who carry on confidential conver
sations while sitting or standing six inches 
away from you.
This happens everywhere. Hunt Li
brary is a hot place to pick up first-hand 
gossip on everything. Standing in line at 
the Co-Op or Entropy is another sure bet. 
At least in these places its either accept
able to tell people to be quiet or you know 
that youll be leaving the situation soon. 
In other places youre trapped.
My favorite hot spots are computer clus
ters. They are prime centers for picking up 
fun facts about people you really couldnt 
care less about. The added bonus of hav
ing this happen at a cluster is that you are
For most people a private conversation 
18 just that: private. Wed rather not 
8hare with everyone and so we hold such 
talks in appropriate places and/or in a 
quiet voice. Unfortunately, not everyone
Mahua Dutta

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 February 1995
Writer ignorant of lower and middle classes problems
The Editors Notebook
The Editors Notebook presents the 
individual opinion of the author only, 
not necessarily the opinions of The Tar
tan or of the Editorial Board.
Ive been reading James Stepaneks 
columns for The Tartan over the past 
few years with amusement. I dont know 
what Ive found funnier: his naive confi
dence in any right-wing propaganda he 
hears, or the fact that he seems to have 
been bom with a silver spoon in his 
mouth. But I was reluctant to criticize 
another writer until last Mondays pa
per appeared. His February 13 column 
was simply too ridiculous for me to take.
Stepanek has given the reader a few
clues about his background in the past, 
and it seems painfully obvious that he 
has no idea what the problems of the 
poor and middleclasses really are. He 
claims to have proven conclusivelyin 
a dozen or so column-inches in a college 
newspaper, mind you  that supplyside economics works, and that in the 
1980s, the rich didnt get richer and the 
poor didnt get poorer. Im sure this 
surprised many economists on campus, 
who are now out of work.
The gap between the richest and poor
est people in America is real, and by all 
accounts, its growing larger. The pur
chasing power of the average wageearner is declining; it takes longer now 
for the average worker to buy a car, pay 
a mortgage payment, or purchase the 
necessities than it did 20, or 10, years 
ago. Why exactly does Stepanek think 
that so many families are wo-income 
families today? (A plot by the left and 
feminists, probably.)
It is clear to me that Stepanek has 
never worked a blue-collar job in his life, 
does not know any blue-collar workers,
and could care less about their prob
lems. Stepaneks blind allegiance to the 
recent Republican grandstanding is 
laughable, and totally irrelevant to most 
Americans. I invite Stepanek to ride 
with me through Ambridge, Homestead, 
and Braddock, and ask the people we
meet what they ____________________
think of his 
theories. I will 
even show him 
evidence of the 
decade of 
greed he scoffs 
at  for ex
ample, stable 
companies that 
were taken over
by corporate raiders, robbed of valuable 
assets, and then closed. Not isolated 
cases, mind you, but typical scenarios 
repeated all across the country, affect
ing millions of households.
Stepanek is also mystified that people 
would elect Clinton on the basis that he 
would change things. Well, of course 
they did. They were dissatisfied with
their quality of life under the Reagan 
and Bush administrations, and hoped 
that their situation would improve with 
Clinton. They want more pay and more 
opportunity to work. As always, the 
Democrats have tried to treat the symp
toms instead of the disease, by throwing
Stepaneks blind allegiance to the 
recent Republican grandstanding is 
laughable, and totally irrelevant to 
most Americans.
more money into entitlements. If 
Stepanek thinks there has been some 
drastic shift rightward, hes deluding 
himself, and if the Republicans dont 
improve things, and fast, theyll be gone 
in two years, too. Tax breaks are a joke; 
they benefit the rich, not people work
ing 45 hours a week, for $4.30 an hour, 
with no benefits.
Both the left and right seem to be out 
of touch with reality, as is Stepanek. Hij 
calls for more help for the rich at the 
expense of the poor mark him as aj 
elitist. His proposals, from eliminating 
financial aid to returning to the laissezfaire policies of Ronald Reagan, would 
only increase class separation. When we 
all get a little less greedy, a little less 
concerned with the bottom line, things 
will improve  a decrease in crime, for 
example, is one obvious benefit of having more people gainfully employed i5 
well-payingskilled and semi-skifledjobs.
It is not surprising that Stepanek, an 
engineer, wants to use mathematical 
models to solve complex problems. Bui 
human beings dont fit well into such 
things as the supply and demand curve, 
Stepanek cant seem to comprehend this 
and for a PhD student, he shows incred
ible naivete.
Tartan Contributing Editor Jason 
Togyer is a junior majoring in profes
sional writing. He, too, wishes capital
ism was flawless, but it just aint.
Conversations imposed on bystanders
WORLD, from page 7
to ignore them, but they were 
too loud. I then tried to find a 
pause to tell them to be quiet, 
but they talked non-stop. I fi
nally turned to one of the people 
and said, I know this is an 
important conversation to you, 
but I need to write this paper 
and youre distracting me. The 
person did not apologize. She 
looked at me with what I refer 
to as The Bitch Look and said 
something along of the lines of, 
Well try to be quiet. I think 
she thought I was eavesdrop
ping, which is funny because 
mere words cannot express how 
much I didnt want to know 
about her life. All I wanted was
for her to shut the hell up.
Do people like this really think 
that we want to know about their 
traumas, sex fives, and what
ever other personal features they 
may have? Do they seriously 
think we care? I hate to break it 
to these people, but theyre not 
all that interesting. Dont they 
understand that there is a time 
and place for everything? Didnt 
their parents tell them what top
ics are appropriate for public con
versation? Maybe talk shows 
have given people the idea that 
its all right to talk about any
thing at anytime and anywhere. 
Maybe some people think of the 
world as one large Rikki Lake' 
Show. Well, guess what  its
not. The difference is that in 
life you dont have the luxury 
of hitting the mute button ev
ery time someone gabs too 
much or too loudly. Im not 
saying that we should all cen
sor ourselves to the point 
where weve regressed into the 
Victorian Era. I believe in free
dom of speech, but also in 
having consideration for the 
people around you. When 
people impose their conversa
tions on you, they completely 
disregard your rights. They 
deny you your space. Its rude 
and there is no excuse for it.
Mahua Dutta is a senior 
writing major.
.LambdFo Fu ntiLWeebv LWM Iov 
ELdd srrT hbLWCv lev
The faculty and staff of the 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences 
and the College of Fine Arts congratulate our students for their outstanding 
academic performances during the Fall 1994 semester.
SENIORS
Christina Isaly
JUNIORS
Rachael Keeler 
Michal Paley 
Carolyn Segermark
iw!3w~wJHW
Melissa Bower 
Justin Carroll 
D. Renee Hairston 
Jessica Kender 
Lisa Marinacci 
Peter Moore 
Robyn Nace
FRESHMEN
Carl Foner 
Elizabeth Irvine 
Jenny Kwon 
Amanda Spear
Come worship with those who live 
with God asfheir Shepherd.
Church of thd Ascensi on
Where students and the Gospel of Jesus find their home 
At the comer of Neville and Ellsworth
Sunday Services at 10:30 a.m.
Friday college fellowship group 7:30 p.m.
Church Office 621-4361 
E-mail bv22@andrew.cmu.edu
DAzrtn The, Pizza/
Voted the ^1 
Pizza in Pittsburgh 
by the Post Gazette.
Our competitors 
pizza was com
pared to card
board with sauce.
Try the rest, buy 
the best!
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd.
near North Craig
682-7272
Carryout Special
One 14" Large One Topping
$5.99
ynyn tohige wnbdl .lid
10 Small14 Large16 Extra Large
r
Cheese Pizza4.956.959.95
One Topping5.657.9510.95 Two Topping6.358.9511.95&Three Topping7.059.9512.95i
Four Topping7.7510.9513.95i
Five Topping8.4511.9514.95i
i
Garden Special7.2510.2513.25i
Mushrooms, Onion, Green Pepper, & Black Olives
The Works 8.45 11.95 14.95
Pepperoni, Ham, Sausage, Mushrooms, Onion, Green Peppers, & Black Olives
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
^ Valid only at participating stores
Party Special
TOPPINGS
Ham
Pepperoni 
Sausage 
Ground Beef 
Bacon 
Anchovies 
Extra Cheese 
Mushrooms 
Onions 
Black Olives 
Green Olives 
Green Peppers 
Jalapeno Peppers
EXTRAS
Breadsticks...................................... 1.79
Delicious oven-baked sticks with plenty 
of Papa John's Special Galic Sauce &
Nacho Cheese Sauce
Extras.....................................................28
Extra Pepperoncini, Special Galic 
Sauce, Nacho Green Sauce
Cheesesticks.................................. 3.20
A Chicago-cut taste treat smothered in 
cheese & Special Garlic Sauce
Drinks......................................................61
12 oz. can of Coca-Cols@ classic,
Sprite or diet Cokd
Prices do not include sales tax
a.

Party Special
$13:95
One 
14 Large 
One Topping 
OR 
Two 
14 Large 
One Topping
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Perfect Brunch or 
Late Night Munch
One 10 Pizza One Topping & 
Two Cans of Coca-Cola classic
99
+tax$5.:
(Daily 11 am-4pm, 9pm-close) 
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
. Jason Stogandorf/Tartan Photographer 
Senior Rlshi Kumar of the Carnegie Mellon Lacrosse Club chases down the ball as senior 
Craig Bachman (#88) follows behind him a& CMU won Saturday's game against Niagara 
7-5. On Sunday, the team hosted Kutztown College and lost 7-1.
Volume 89. Issue 17The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania20 February .1995Swim team makes waves 
at UAA Championships
ByANUJ GUPTA
Tartan Staffwriter
This year, both the Tartan mens and womens swim 
[earn traveled to Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia 
[or the UAA Championships. They returned with some of 
he most successful results in the history of Carnegie 
Mellon swimming.
The mens team finished second overall in the meet, 
vrith a total of575 points. This was CMUs second highest 
joint total ever (1993  605 points). Only arch-rival, 
lohns Hopkins University scored more points (1,046.5). 
[he top five was rounded out with the University of 
Jochester (538), Emory University (488), and Washingjn University of St. Louis (487.5). As usual, CMU was at 
automatic disadvantage due to the lack of a diving 
jam.
The long list of mens highlights started with junior 
Uatt Moe. Moe took first place in the 200-yard breasttroke and set a school record with a time of 2:08.9. He 
ik second place in the 400-yard IM with a time of 4:08.5 
aid fourth place in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 
1:44.6. His 400-yard IM and 200-yard breastroke time 
(ere both national qualifying times.
Geoff Waller also showed the talent of the mens junior 
i. He took first place in both the 400-yard IM and200- 
rard butterfly with times of 4:08.2 and 1:55.0. Both were 
lational qualifying times. He also took sixth place in the 
00-yard freestyle.
As for other individual events, the 200-yard Butterfly 
ilso featured junior George Schmidt (third place, 1:58.2) 
and freshman Wayne Nickles (fifth place, 1:59.8). The 
yard backstroke was highlighted by freshman sensaions Jake McGuire (third place, 1:57.8) and George 
ifatluk (eighth place, 2:01.4).
The 200-yard breastroke was dominated by CMU swimiiers including, senior DonNelson (seventh place, 2:14.7), 
freshman David Hall (eighth place, 2:15.9), and senior 
aptain Doug Donegan (15th place, 2:23.4). Donegan also 
ook 16th place in the 100-yard breastroke. According to 
Jonegan, the mens team accomplished exactly what 
hey set out to do.
As for the relay portion of the meet, the highlight was 
the performance of the 800-yard freestyle relay, consist
ing of McGuire, Waller, junior Mike Berty and Moe. They 
churned out a national qualifying time of 7:00.82.
The future of the mens team looks especially strong, 
judging by the performance of this years freshman class. 
They scored a total of 209 points and every freshman 
contributed to that total. Moe said, I was especially 
proud of the freshman.
The womens meet was no less impressive as the Tartan 
women scored a total of 321 points (third highest total in 
CMU history). The womens meet was won by Emory 
University with a total of 860 points.
The standout performance were capped by the usual 
stellar performance from junior Rebecca Fruehan. 
Fruehan won three events; the 500-yard freestyle, 200- 
yard freestyle, and 100-yard freestyle with times of 5:11, 
1:55 and 53.25 respectively. Fruehan broke her own UAA 
record in the 200-yard freestyle. She was also named CoSwimmer of the Meet.
The Tartan women continued their success in other 
areas as well. The 800-yard freestyle relay, consisting of 
freshmen Jen DeFlippo, and Carly Cenedella, sophomore 
Christina Hagopian, and Fruehan, finished in second 
place with a time of 8:11.00.
School records were set by the 400-yard medley relay 
and 400-yard freestyle relay teams as well. The 400-yard 
medley, consisting of DeFlippo, freshman Jen Supancic, 
Cenedella, and Fruehan, finished with a time of 4:18.0. 
The 400-yard freestyle relay (DeFlippo, Cenedella, 
Hagopian, Fruehan) finished with a time of 3:44.0.
In individual events, the 100-yard freestyle was high
lighted by Cenedella (11th place), Hagopian (12th place), 
and senior Sarah Broadley (13th place).
All 10 women scored in the meet, and according to 
senior captain Dianne Keen, We swam really well for 
what we had. We had young and inexperienced swim
mers. But we worked really well as a team and kept it 
together until the end.
Jim Cutrone, who was awarded UAA Mens Coach of 
the Year, said Both teams swam well. The men had an 
exceptional meet.
Hoopsters finishing strong
Womens b-ball drops pair of tough games
ly VERNON HARMON
pedal to the Tartan
Sunday afternoon the Tartans lost 
Emory University 81-56.
On Wednesday, the Lady Tartans 
lad fallen to 7-16 after losing a nonamference home game to the Alleghny Gators, 55-41.
Sophomores Kelly Gaitens and 
'enny Summerville led CMU with 10 
mints each. Freshman starter Katie 
)"Leary chipped in with six points of 
ler own and a game-leading 12 re#unds, while sophomore Rebecca 
icCadney tallied four points and 10 
ebounds. Sophomore KristenKupfer, 
he leading scorer among the Lady 
ns active players, had an off 
light, hitting only two of nine from 
he floor. However, she pulled in five 
ebounds and had three of CMUs 10 
issists.
CMU looked to make a game of it in 
he first half with Gaitens hitting 
th of her 3-point attempts in the 
ssily going. Then Kupfer and OLeary
Matthew Solltro/Tartan Sports Editor 
Sophomore Kristen Kupfer shoots over the 
Allegheny defenders.
made good on three of their four foul 
shots, something CMU has had trouble 
doing this season. CMU trailed by 
two, 1315, with 10:00 remaining in 
the first half when the Gators went on 
a 12-0 run, thanks in large part to 
some sloppy inbounding by the Tar
tans. Coach Gerri Seidl then 
called a time-out to discuss 
strategy. CMU returned to the 
court andheldAlleghenyto only 
three points in the final 6:30 of 
the half while scoring 12 points 
of their own to close the gap to 
five, 30-25.
In the second half, CMU came 
out playing more tough defense 
and tied it up at 30, with 17:50 
to go. Unfortunately, that was 
as close as they would get. The 
Tartans were down by seven 
with 5:35 remaining when 
Summerville drainedboth of her 
foul shots to make it43-38. Then 
CMU got sloppy with the ball 
again and Allegheny went on a 
12-2 run before OLeary scored 
the final points of the game from the 
bonus stripe.
The Tartans wrap up the 1994-95 
season next Saturday at home against 
UAA opponent The University of 
Rochester. The game will be at 3 pm 
in the gymnasium.
By VERNON HARMON
Special to the Tartan
The mens basketball team assured them
selves of a winning season with a 7775 
overtime victory over Emory University on 
Sunday afternoon.
When the Tartans played at ThielCollege 
two and a half weeks ago, they lost 111-97, 
scoring more than in any other game but 
also giving up more points than in any other. 
Then last weekend, CMU allowed 97 and 98 
points by Washington University and the 
University of Chicago, respectively. So when 
the Thiel Tomcats came to Skibo Gymna
sium on Friday, most people expected to see 
a lot of offense. If you were at the game, that 
is exactly what you saw, as CMU logged its 
new highest point total of the season, break
ing the century mark for the first time this 
season, and winning the game 103-88.
Junior Jon Blanciak led all scorers with 20 
points, hitting eight of 10 from the floor and 
pulling in a game-leading 11 rebounds, just 
slightly above his UAA-leading season aver
age of 10.8 rebounds per game. Junior Kevin 
Byrne added 17 points, including a 3-pointer, 
as he chalked up five rebounds and five 
assists. Sophomore Rich Bodnar contrib
uted 14 points, nine rebounds and eight 
assists. Coming off the bench, junior Steve 
Hartman had a big game, hitting all six of 
his shots to chimeinwithl2points. Hartman 
also grabbed seven rebounds and three steals 
and had two blocked shots. Junior Robert 
B.J. Lang, promoted to second-string after 
freshman LaDale Widmeyer injured his knee 
at Washington University last Friday, also 
made his presence felt with one field goal, 
one 3-pointer and one foul shot as he dished 
out four assists in relief of senior Steve 
Athanas.
Coach Tony Wingen was pleased for the 
most part with the teams play, but particu
larly Lang and Hartman. We had some 
good performances by some guys tonight  
B.J. Lang was one of them. [He had] a 
tremendous performance coming off the
bench. [He was] forced into a situation that 
he hasnt had the opportunity to be in and he 
did a great job. And Steve Hartman just 
stepped up and had a huge game... he did a 
super job on the boards.
The game started off on a strange note 
that established the tone for the rest of the
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer 
Junior Gregg Lassan pulls up for a jumper In 
the Tartans victory over Thiel College.
night. With less than a minute gone and 
CMU leading 2-0, Thiel was called for a 
bizarre technical foul. Starter Sam Pezzi 
was in the books as number 52 but was 
wearing number 53 in the game. The NCAA 
has a new rule this season which states that 
a technical foul also counts as a personal foul 
against the player and the team. However, 
this technical was officially charged to the 
Thiel book and did not count as a personal 
foul. It would matter little though, as both 
teams were well into the double bonus by the 
nine-minute mark. The Tomcats tied it up at 
six with 16:20 remaining, but CMU then 
Please see HOOPS, page 10
hockey club claims division title in close battle with Allegheny
ty COREY ZINN
tartan Staffwriter
The Hockey Club split a pair of games this past 
Wekend. They clinched the division title with a 
im over Allegheny on Friday before they lost an 
*hibition game to a tough West Virginia Univer% team.
Saturday afternoon, a shortened CMU bench 
Bt to WVUs varsity team, 12-0, in an exhibition 
e. Despite the score, the Tartans did not really 
lay poorly, especially considering who was not 
resent  sophomore Ray Ardire, seniors John 
'ardillo and (Jefenseman P.J. Mann, among 
jhers. Sophomore goaltender Jon Khegman actu% played a pretty decent game, stopping 44 WVU 
oots  and not many of them were weak. CMU, 
jjt plain outclassed by the drastically-improved 
'VU Mountaineers, managed just 16 shots on 
1? them coming in the third period.
he Mountaineers continued to clog up the pass
's lanes, and were constantly in motion, ready to 
luce on any chance of,a loose puck. If anything, 
game pointed out weaknesses to CMU so they 
be worked on in the final week before the Layoffs.
The story Friday night was much different, 
jough. The fans who attended that game against 
egheny were told ahead of time to expect an 
Kiting game  and both teams delivered. Al}ough the score ended up 5i CMU, this tells little 
what the game was really like, 
or the most part, it was a very defensive game,
11 each team registering fewer than 30 shots.
But it wasnt a rough game, as CMU received only 
one penalty, and Allegheny was only in the box five 
times through the course of the game.
Once again, this game was a showcase of Ardires 
scoringprowess and physical presence as he tallied
senior Dave Irvin. Two minutes later, Ardire scored 
his third of the game on a power play for the 
natural hattrick,assistedbyfreshmandefenseman 
Paul Voulgaris. This made the score 3-0, and it 
looked like CMU was going to steamroll to a vicfour of CMUs five goals and delivered a number of tory. But Allegheny scored with just 40 seconds 
bone-crushing checks. Not even a minute and a remaining in the second to make it 3-1, showing 
half into the game, Ardire, assisted by 
sophomore defenseman Chris 
Adukaitis, put CMU on the scoreboard 
with their first shot on goal during a 
scramble in front of the net. However, 
this was the only score of the period as 
CMU managed just six more shots, 
and Kliegman stopped all 11 shots he 
faced.
Both goaltenders made some nice 
saves in the second period with each 
making an absolutely spectacular save.
With about 13:30 remaining, Allegh
eny was swarming around the net and 
got a shot off that looked to be a guar
anteed goal, but Kliegman made a 
fabulous diving save to his left to keep 
the puck out of the net.
Roger Maddalena, with 8:15 remaining in the 
game.
Allegheny took a time-out with 3:46 left, and it 
paid off. Less than a minute later, they once again 
tied the game. The next two minutes were pure 
excitement as both teams had scoring chances, but 
neither could take the lead. CMU finally made it 5- 
4 with 53 seconds remaining. The goal 
was scored by none other than Ardire, 
assisted by Mann.
CMU then called for their time-out to 
discuss strategy on how to maintain this 
one-goal lead. Allegheny pulled their 
goaltender when play resumed, and that 
empty net called out to scorers like 
Maddalena and Ardire. Both had chances 
as time was ticking away  Maddalena 
had a shot ricochet off the left poBt and 
across the goal mouth, and Ardire, shoot
ing from the blueline, missed putting one 
in on the left side by about three inches.
These chances kept Allegheny out of the 
Tartans zone, and so came away with the
5-4 victory to finish their regular season 
with a division-leading 8-1-1 record; their 
only loss coming against Allegheny lastAfinnf tlirDQ m imifoa 1 of AT 4-Vi o fahloa
were turned as Cardillo took a shot at Senlor John Cardlll <#7> cuts between two Allegheny defenders and fires tester.
a seemingly empty net, but Alleghen/s a shot on 6oal ,n the Tartans 5^t division clinching victory on Friday night.CMU has a bye for the first round of the
goaltender made an outstanding stick save from that they werent dead yet. playoffs, and will play the winner of the Indiana
the other side of the net to deny the goal. Allegheny came out strong in the third and University of Pennsylvania vs. Pitt-Johnstown
scored two goals in a four-minute span to tie the 
game at three. However, CMU was not ready to 
give up, and they regained the lead on a beautiful
It wasnt until 27 minutes of play after the first 
goal, with 5:35 remaining in the second, that the 
next goal was scored. Once again, it was Ardire
who put the puck in the net, this time assisted by shot by sophomore Jim Buck, assisted by junior
game at 5:30 pm next Saturday at Indianas new 
municipal rink. The winner of this game will play 
the winner of the other semi-final game on Sunday 
at 4:30 pm, also at the Indiana Ice Center.

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 February 1995
Vonquitra Bebee won three events 
and established a school record in the 
Robert Morris College Triangular track 
invitational. The sophomore sprinter 
won the 55-meter run with a record 
time of 7.3 seconds.
Bebee also won the 200 meters in a 
time of 27.9 seconds and ran anchor in 
the 1,600-meter relay which placed 
first with a time of 4:20.3.
The Rugby Club has been ranked 
fifth nationally, behind four Division I 
schools. The team was the 1994 Divi
sion II Midwest Champions.
Compiled by 
PAUL BOOTHE
ADMINISTRATION
Intramural Director  Mike 
Mastroianni, X8-2214; Assistant Direc
tor  Mike Grzywinski, 683-2938; In
tramural Secretary  Michelle Matta, 
X8-2053; President  Jim Saxon, x2- 
3872; Women's President  Amy 
Watchom, x2-2629; Vice President  
Matt Williams, X2-2490
DATES OF IMPORTANCE
Monday, February 20  Water Bas
ketball begins play. Check for sched
ules after 2:15 pm.
Thursday, March 2 Entries due by 
4:30 pm for Co-Rec & Team Badmin
ton, 3 on 3 Basketball, Foul Shooting 
and 3-Point Shoot Out
WATER BASKETBALL
All teams are reminded to pick up 
their game schedules in the IM Office. 
The first night of games will be tonight, 
Monday, February 20.
If anyone is interested in officiating 
Water Basketball, they should call In
tramural Director Mike Mastroianni at 
X8-2214.
WRESTLING
The 1995 Intramural Wrestling tour
nament will be held on Wednesday, 
March 15, at 6:30 pm in the Main Gym. 
Activity Room A located in the gym has 
been reserved on the following days for 
wrestling practice.
Those IM wrestlers interested in us
ing the following times for practice 
must sign up in the IM Office for prac
tice times.
Thursday, February 23,4:30-6:00 pm 
Tuesday, February 28, 4:30-6:00 pm 
Thursday, March 2, 4:30-6:00 pm 
Tuesday, March 7, 4:30-6:00 pm 
Thursday, March 9, 4:30-6:00 pm 
Tuesday, March 14, 4:30-6:30 pm
BASKETBALL
The following is the make-up sched
ule of games postponed because of 
gymnasium conflicts. All teams are 
reminded to check IM Bulletin Board or 
call the IM Office for any schedule 
changes:
Monday 2/20 Minors
NBBN vs All For One 
9:15 pm Ct S
Thursday 2/23 Minors
Shirley Couch vs NBBN 
8:45 pm Ct D
Monday 2/27 Intermediate
Da Big Dawgs vs Bucket Brigade 
7:45 pm Ct D
Women
Darios Girls vs Tri Delt 
8:45 pm Ct B
Minors \
Delt Scrubs vs PKT Drake 
7:15 pm Ct S
Minors
Shirley Couch vs PKT Uglies 
8:45 pm Ct A
Tuesday 2/28 Intermediate
Three Rivers... vs Beta Young Gun II 
8:45 pm Ct B
Minors
Shirley Couch vs NBBN 
7:45 pm Ct D
Women
BBE vs Tri Delt 
8:45 pm Ct A
If additional information is needed 
on these games, please contact the IM 
Office.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
Fencing team makes stab at Nationals
By STEVEN BURNS
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Fencing Club re
cently sent two teams to participate in the 
National Team Qualifiers at the Boys and 
Girls Club in Lawrenceville, and one of 
them qualified for the National Champi
onships. The qualifiers are for the West
ern Pennsylvania Division, and the two 
top teams advance to the national tourna
ment to be held in Louisville, Kentucky, 
in June.
The qualifiers featured eight teams from 
six different clubs. Some of the other clubs 
were Pine Richland, the En-Guard Fenc
ing Club, and a team from Indiana Uni
versity of Pennsylvania.
Carnegie Mellon sent two teams. The 
first was composed of senior Randy Bruno, 
computer science staff member Peter 
Stephen, and Pitt students Hazem 
Elkassas and Cameron Harvey. Mem
bers of the second team were sophomore 
Steven Meyers, sophomore Philip Hedges, 
and Pitt graduate Adam Ricter.
The teams competed in a single elimi
nation tournament format. Each team 
was composed of three members and al
lowed one alternate. A match consisted of 
all three members on one team facing all 
three members of the other with each 
duel ending with five touches being scored 
or four minutes expiring.
Carnegie Mellons second team tied 
for sixth place with Indiana University 
of Pennsylvania. The first team made it 
to the final match against the En-Guard 
Fencing Club where they lost a tough 
45-43 match.
The second place finish was enough to 
get them to the National Champion
ships, though. Were really, really ex
cited to make it to Nationals, said club 
vice-president, Pete Boyer. There will 
be a lot of good fencers there, and it will 
be a great experience. He also went on 
to add, I hope that we have fun and do 
well.
The club has participated in tourna
ments at Lehigh and Indiana, Pennsyl
vania with exceptional results at both. 
They also participate in a number of sanetioned United States Fencing Associatioi 
bouts.
Anyone is allowed to join the club. If 
interested, one can contact Steven Meyers, 
Boyer, or Thibault De Barros Conti, 
they can post to the emu. student.fencing 
bulletin-board. The team is coached by a 
former Russian junior national champion 
and the former Bulgarian Womens Olym. 
pic Coach, but they stress that they want 
to have fun, too.
They will be hosting the annual Holy 
Grail tournament this Sunday. Clubs from 
Pennsylvania, New York, and Ohio will be 
in attendance.
NBA players, coaches awarded at mid-season
Below the Rim
by Darren Chiappetta
The NBA All-Star game was 
held last weekend in Phoenix. 
For those of you who watched 
some or all of it, I think youll 
agree it was one of the dullest 
games in recent memory. There 
was no defense, and more turn
overs than you can find in a 
bakery. The West won (if any
body cares) 139-115, behind 
MVP Mitch Richmond of Sacra
mento, who scored 23 points.
If the game was this dull, why 
talk about it? B ecause its a leadin to the focus of this weeks 
column  the NBA midseason 
report. If every other basket
ball writer in the world can do 
one, I think its fair that I pre
tend I have an idea about what 
goes on in the NBA.
Well save the team reports 
for another column. These are 
simply individual awards. Since 
I dont have a satellite dish, I 
havent seen everyone play, so 
Im going to forget some players 
and awards. Unless otherwise 
noted, all statistics used are 
through the All-Star break. 
Having presented the dis
claimer, Im ready to go. Drum 
roll, please!
Lets get the if-the-seasonended-today awards out of the 
way.
Most Valuable Player 
Award: Shaquille ONeal. The 
big guy is tops in the league in 
scoring, and in the top seven in 
three other categories. His field 
goal percentage is third in the 
league and hes averaging 
nearly two-and-a-half blocks per 
game.
Honorable Mention, 
League MVP: David Robin
son, San Antonio; Hakeem 
Olajuwon, Houston; and Patrick 
Ewing, New York. However, if 
you want to talk about MVP of 
Shaqs team, the Orlando Magic, 
the nod has to go to Anfemee 
Hardaway. He is perhaps the 
most complete player in the
NBA after Scottie Pippen of 
Chicago. The second-year point 
guard is scoring at a 20.7 clip, 
dishing out nearly seven assists 
a night and making all the right 
decisions for the team with the 
best record in the Eastern Con
ference.
How is Hardaway the teams 
MVP and Shaq-Fu the leagues? 
It comes down to numbers and 
notoriety. Shaq couldnt hit a 
free throw if his Reebok contract 
depended on it and still cant 
shoot outside 12 feet (his AllStar 3-point airball was a testa
ment to that fact). But Shaqs 
got the big scoringnumbers (over 
29 points a game), and is easily 
the leagues most recognizable 
figure.
Honorable Mention, Magic 
MVP: Shaq and Geert Hammink 
(just because I love his name.)
Comeback Player of the 
Year: Tim Hardaway, 
Golden State. Coming 
off major knee surgery 
that sidelined him all 
of last season, Hard
away has been one of 
the few bright spots for 
the Warriors this sea
son. Hes the teams 
second-leading scorer 
at 19.8 per game and is shoot
ing 36 percent from 3-point 
range. Those who watch 
him also say his killer 
crossover dribble is 
back, causing night
mares for point guards 
around the league who 
have to cover him. (Why is it 
when talking about Hardaway, 
the word killer must immedi
ately precede the word cross
over? Does he have a patent?)
Honorable Mention: Im not 
sure if Larry Johnson of Char
lotte missed enough games last 
season to be eligible, but if he 
did, pencil him in here.
Rookie of the Year: Tough 
call between Detroits Grant Hill 
and Glenn Robinson of Milwau
kee. Robinson and Hill have 
similar statistics, with Robinson 
holding an edge in most offen
sive categories. However, there 
is one striking difference. As a 
forward, Robinson averages al
most four turnovers a game. 
Thats 50 more than anyone on 
his team. The Big Dog has 
shown great improvement
throughout the season and may 
win the award when its handed 
out at the end of the year, but hes 
got to learn to hang on to the ball. 
If the season ended today, Id 
have to give the nod to Hill.
Coach of the Year: Mike 
Fratello, Cleveland. In his sec
ond year with the Cavs, Fratello 
has had to find a way to win 
without the services of All-Stars 
Brad Daugherty (who will miss 
the entire season with a bad back) 
and point guard Mark Price 
(whos missed almost 20 games 
due to injury).
Despite the fact that the Cavs 
are the lowest-scoring team in 
the league, their NBA-best de
fense is holding opponents to 89 
points per contest, and at the 
break, Fratello had the Cavs sit
ting just two and a half games 
behind Charlotte in the 
Central Division. 
Without an
Franclne Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
classified
active player who averages more 
than 14 points a game, it will be 
interesting to see if Fratello can 
keep up the smoke-and-mirrors 
act the second half of the season.
Honorable Mention: Del Har
ris, Lakers; Garry St. Jean, Sac
ramento.
At this point, lets shift gears, 
and move on to the really impor
tant awards. Now, the first an
nual Below The Rim Awards.
The What Have I Done to 
Deserve This Award: Gene 
Littles, Denver. After head coach 
Danlssel decidedhe couldnttake 
his Nuggets to the heights they 
were expected to reach following 
their playoff win over Seattle last 
year, Littles took over. As of this 
Friday, the Nuggets, 18-16 at 
the time of Issels resignation, 
were 2-12 under Littles.
Honorable Mention: Bob 
Lanier, Golden State.
The Fm Really, Really Broke 
Award: Glenn Robinson. He was 
so broke he had to have the first 
$100 million contract in sports 
history. The Bucks talked him 
down, though, and somehow, 
hell get by on an average sal
ary of $7 million per year.
Honorable Mention: 
Anfemee Hardaway, Orlando; 
Webber.
Crybaby Award: Anyone 
who plays for the New Jersey 
Nets. With everything from 
Derrick Coleman giving 
coach Butch Beard a blank 
check to pay for dress code 
fines to Chris Morris refusal
Iv
Mens basketball wins pair
HOOPS, from page 9
went on a 277 tear, and Thiel 
would never get closer than 15 
again. CMU and Thiel traded 
baskets until 3:00 remained in 
the first half with the score 46- 
29. Junior Gregg Lassan then 
missed an outside jumper that 
Thiel rebounded at mid-court. 
Lassan sprinted down to defend 
on the fast-break and smoth
ered the Thiel lay-up with an 
authoritative block. CMU then 
closed out the half on a 13-4
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer 
Senior Steve Athanas passes to 
junior Jon Blanciak in the paint.
run, making it 59-33.
Wingen was pleased with the 
defensive play, offensive pen
etration and 21-of-30 shooting 
effort in the first half, but wasnt 
about to call it a game. Our 
approach at half-time was Its 
0-0. tie score. We gotta go out 
and play another half just like 
the first. No let-downs on de
fense. No let-downs on rebound
ing. Take care of the ball. Get a 
good shot. ... We havent been 
able to develop a killer instinct 
[this season]. We havent been 
able to put people away.
That might have been the 
plan, but CMU allowed Thiel to 
score 55 points in the second 
half. Despite the defensive let
down, though, the Tartan of
fense kept a comfortable lead. 
With 0:15 left in the game, 
sophomore Jeff Klock hit a lay
up to make it 101-86, finally 
breaking the century mark for 
CMU. The Tartans finish off 
their season on Saturday at 
home against Rochester.
ADOPTION
Adoption - A loving choice.
We can offer your precious baby 
our hearts, the sun, moons, 
stars and financial security. Very 
sensitive to all issues surround
ing adoption. Call Doug St 
Tracy to see if this is the right 
choice for you. All allowable 
expenses paid. 1 -800-440- 
6024.
JOUSING
Summer and fall rental.
Shadyside one bedroom and 
efficiency apartments. Close to 
campus. On campus shuttle 
bus route. Close to shopping. 
Very clean and spotless. Private 
bathrooms and kitchens. 
Spacious bookshelves. Roomy 
closets. Very secure apartment 
buildings. From $235. Call 
683-0776.
North Oakland - All utilities 
included! Reserve your 1 or 2 
bedroom for fall now. Avoid 
the rush and move into a 
spacious unfurnished apartment 
with Intercom, storage, and 
laundry facilities in a super 
location. 1 bedroom starts 
$435, 2 bedroom start at $545. 
All utilities included. Call todayl 
391-6160.
JOBS
Summer camp jobs available!
We are looking for highly moti
vated child-oriented students 
with backgrounds In theater, 
piano, video, and all land/water 
sports. Spend an exciting 
summer In the mnts. of Mass. 
Jobs Include salary, room & 
board, plus travel expense. For 
more info contact Camp Winadu 
(men) at 800-494-6238 or Camp 
Danbee (women) at 800-392- 
3752. Or visit with our represen
tative on Feb. 23rd In room 525 
of the Student Union on the U. 
of Pitt campus from 10-4.
Counselors for co-ed in N.E.
Pa., overnight Jewish federation 
camp. 3 hours from NYC. 
General, sports, waterfront, St 
arts. Call!-800-973-3866. On 
campus Interviews available.
Starr's Escort Is hiring exotic 
dancer models & masseuse. Earn 
$75-100 / hour. Call 344-2676
SERVICES
Free magazine subscriptions. 
Many popular titles. Exciting
to tie his sneakers at a shootaround, this team needs 
babysitter instead of a coach.
Honorable Mention: Latrel 
Sprewell, Golden State.
Worst Act By a Player: 
Vernon Maxwell,. Houston. 
Known as a loose cannon since he 
arrived in the NBA, he exploded 
last week, running up 12 rows to 
punch a heckler. Mnvwell is 
pealing his 10-game suspension 
and $20,000 fine, claiming the 
fan made racial statements about 
his infant daughter, Amber, who 
died three years ago.
Worst Act By a Fan 
Maxwells allegations aboutwhal 
the fan said are true, the award 
goes to this guy. The price of 
ticket doesnt entitle you to slan
der another human being. The 
fan claims he was ridingMaxwell 
only about his play, a claim those 
sitting around him have corrobo
rated.
Best Hair Award: Dennis 
Rodman, depending on the day.
Worst Hair Award: Rodman, 
depending on the day.
Best Commercials: Those Bill 
Murray commercials.
Worst Commercials: An; 
Shaq commercial, except thatold 
Pepsi one where his head pops 
out the top of the convertible. I 
love that one.
Worst Awards Presentation: 
This one. Where is Billy Crystal 
when you need him?
Darren Chiappetta is a junior 
English major.
Efficiency - Ellsworth Ave. $285 
+ gas & elec. 3rd floor private 
entrance. 683-5234.
selection! Get yours now!
Free details. MMSM, Box 
10651-AH, Pittsburgh, PA 
15235-0651.
SALES
Natasha's- Vintage St new 
designer bridal gowns and 
accessories. Fabulous prices. 
551 Beaver Street, Sewlckly. 
(412)-741 -9484. Mon-Sat, 
10-5 pm.
TRAVEL
Fly Dirt Cheap! Caribbean/ 
Mexico $189 R/T. Europe 
$169. Air-Tech Ltd. (212) -219- 
7000. info@aerotech.com.
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$5.00 / wk
21-50 words........$8.00 /wk
51-100 words......$11.00/wk
Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or by check before the firstscheduled run date.
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.
Mail to:
The Tartan 
Boxi 7
Carnegie Mellon Univeristy. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
THE TARTAN 268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 89, Issue 17
 ffTTITA
ui Bin J ran Him raLlVllVJ
The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania20 February 1995
CMU
students
reach
out
to our
community
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Art Co-editor
East-End tutors help students
lirector for University Outreach, who was dancing to the 
i swaying from side to side,
i goofy," Atkinson said with a wink. It was surprising to 
elaxed and fun atmosphere of the activity, especially since it was 
Role Models Program at Carnegie Mellon, whose participants are 
and students from various elementary schools in the Hill District, 
is amazing how fast the Role Models Program has increased since its 
option. Only afewyears ago, the program was without an office; it is housed 
in the Student Center. Most of the program is student run, said Maureen 
Brady, a junior at Carnegie Mellon, and one of the tutors in the program.
and also the Associate Director of Role Models, said that one of the main 
purposes of the program is to help . . . children develop a foundation of
the future. The most dynamic aspect about the [program] is that it works with 
the community and its resources to provide a quality program that prepares 
children to be positive role models for one another.
Atkinson began planning the program in 1988. In 1991, she founded the 
program which was then adopted by CMU president Robert Mehrabian. The 
" 1 -----started because she believed that black children lacked the
to gangs and drugs because they didn't believe that they had a future.
Many African-Americans live in poverty and in housing projects and are 
isolated from the rest of the community, said Atkinson. They need to talk to 
other people and learn about different opportunities that society has to offer. 
With the desegregation, many African-Americans have left in pursuit of the 
American Dream. Without intending it, there was a real loss in the A " 
American community for role models,  she said.
Please:
INSIDE THIS WEEK
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Staffwriter
With the pressures of college life being 
as strenuous as they are, students some
times forget that there is a world beyond 
Calculus, and that there are other ways 
in which we can contribute to society, 
besides by becoming professionals.
Fortunately, CMITs Center for Uni
versity Outreach offers its students out
lets for such activitiesone of the most 
successful being the east end tutoring 
program.
The program gives the civic-minded 
student an opportunity in service learn
ing, and in reaching out to the commu
nity, said Kirk Yenerall, program coor
dinator for the University Outreach.
It seeks to affect the lives of young 
people from the Pittsburgh area, by pro
viding them a mentor to aid them aca
demically and on a personal level, he 
added.
Sponsored in part by the Richard King 
Mellon Foundation, the program started 
in the spring of1993 under the direction 
of Harriet Swartz of Student Affairs, 
and Elaine Atkinson and Ted Fenton, 
both from the University Outreach.
I remember the first semester we 
tutored, said Roshni Bhakta, junior bi
ology major, who has been with the pro
gram since it began.
There were only 25 of us, and some
times we werent even sure if the van 
was going to pick us up, she laughed. 
Since then, the number of tutors has
grown to over 80, showing the popular
ity of the program on campus.
The tutors visit neighboring schools in 
the east end cluster of the public school 
system, mainly four elementaryschools 
(Colfax, Linden, Minadeo, and Regent 
Square).
The other two schools, Taylor 
Allderdice and Reizenstein Middle 
School, are secondary schools where the 
tutors participate in an algebra lab, fo
cused mainly on ninth graders. Groups 
of three to eight tutors visit each school 
for two hours a week, which works flex
ibly around a students schedule.
Working with a group provides a 
means of support amongst the tutors, in 
order to bounce off ideas, and share 
concerns, said Yenerall. Each semester 
a small number of veteran students are 
chosen as team leaders, who dedicate 
an extra few hours a week, planning 
social activities and assisting tutors with 
any problems they might encounter. 
They are a really big part of the equa
tion, he added.
By pairing a CMU student with one or 
two kids, a relationship evolves  one 
beneficial to both parties involved. The 
tutors not only help with academics, but 
serve as a mentora friend, someone to 
trust, a confident, said Yenerall.
They need someone to take the time 
to listen to them, to take interest in what 
they think and feel, he added.
Its amazing the way [these kids] 
cope, said Yenerall, referring to the 
youths in program. About 40 percent of 
the students are bused in from low eco
nomic backgrounds and lack the posi
tive support that others find at home.
Most people dont understand the rea
sons behind the perceived achievement 
gap between these kids and kids having 
better resources, financially and emo
tionally ... They have to deal with a 
widespread problem of violence on a 
daily basis, said Yenerall.
With safety as a real concern in their 
lives, its no wonder that it is more of a 
struggle for them to focus on school. At 
that age, my main traumas were which 
bus to ride home and how to hold on to 
my lunch money, said Yenerall.
Doing its part to encourage commu
nity service, CMU offers a course that 
prepares tutors to work with kids on 
such a level. Worth six credit hours, the 
University Studies class [99-200] teaches 
students tutoring techniques, the need 
for tutors in these areas, and background 
on kids from poverty neighborhoods. By 
making it an academic class, the admin
istration is encouraging service work, 
and promoting the well-rounded stu
dent, said Yenerall.
Only one-third of the tutors in the 
program are actually enrolled in the 
class; yet all tutors are required to take 
part in the training sessions that teaches 
awareness and instills a sense of empa
thy towards the kids, teaches how to 
relate to the problems of a child in grade 
school, middle or high school.
His second semester as an east end 
tutor, Chris White, sophomore Civil 
Engineering and Engineering and
Please see TUTORING, page L4
Columns
Javon Thompsons artwork is fea
tured at the City County Building 
through February 24. See related story 
inside on page L4.
aaaBiiaiDRiosKaiaiiaataitiiaaaD 8*<&
,Aaaaaaaaaaaaanaaaaaaaaaaaa
..............................

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 February 1995
CMU Celebrates Black History Month through activities
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Black History Month is more than 
George Washington Carver, Dr. Martin 
Luther King Jr., and Malcolm X, said 
Carolyn Manley, a program assistant at 
the Student Affairs office.
Manley feels that the importance of 
Black History Month goes well beyond 
these three great African-American lead
ers.
It is a time that reminds that all of my 
people are resourceful. There is gold 
among us. We are rich, intelligent, selfreliant. We got it going on, she said.
In commemoration of Black History 
Month, various organizations such as 
Spirit, Black Graduate Student Organi
zation, Activities Board, Political Speak
ers Forum Board, as well as patrons,
will be sponsoring on campus events 
throughout the entire month.
Previously, the Regent Theatre pre
sented The Winans in memory of Javon 
Thompson at the East Liberty Presbyte
rian Church on February 3.
During the week of the Frbruary 6 a 
Lunchtime Series entitled Eyes on the 
Prize waB presented in the Student 
Center.
On the 24th the Cinque Folkloric 
Dance Theatre will perform West Afri
can dance and music in the Mellon Insti
tute Auditorium at 7 pm.
Also, the Black Perspectives Dinner 
and I Dream a World Performance will 
take place at 6:30 pm on February 28 on 
the Student Center Drill Deck.
To supplement these programs, vari
ous lectures will be held throughout the 
month.
These include alumna Desiree Cook, 
who will speak on Calvin Running for 
State Representative in New Orleans, 
and Jackie Barrett who will present her 
thoughts on the First African-American 
Woman Sheriff in the U.S. The times, 
dates, and locations of these lectures 
have yet to be announced.
Many feel it is important that the 
University supports these programs, but 
that there is only so much that an insti
tution can do.
It is important that the University 
emphasize the importance of cultural or 
ethnic awareness. It is universally ben
eficial to everybody who is a part of the 
campus community, said Frank Ligons, 
a sophomore social history and psychol
ogy major.
But, if people want to learn, they 
have to learn for themselves. You dont
have to be in an auditorium and have it 
thrown at you. You can go to the library 
and talk to others. The institution cant 
be relied on to get educated and to learn 
about yourself, said Ligons.
Unfortunately, many students fail to 
utilize their resources and educate them
selves about this important part of our 
countrys history.
The general population doesnt get 
anything out of the events though, be
cause most people dont attend, said 
Ligons. They feel apathy. They feel that 
they have no reason to invest interest. 
People think if they remain in their own 
little world it will be all right.
Duane Doles, a junior cognitive sci
ence me\jor agrees with Ligons. He said, 
I think a lot of people dont see the use 
in the efforts to commemorate Black 
History Month. They walk past videos
and dont pay attention to it or what 
has to say. I think this is because tlj 
University does not emphasize wh. 
Black History Monthisimportant. Blaci 
students celebrate it but not others.'
I definitely think more should be don: 
simply because we have such a divers, 
community, said Manley. We need tj 
do more. If you educate people, they gg 
knowledge. Knowledgeis power. Wecani 
be held accountable for our actions if.v: 
dont know.
Manley feels the inability to creati 
awareness is extremely detrimental fr, 
the understanding of our campus.
She added, Ignorance is not bliss. 
Said Doles, Most people remain ig. 
rant because they think, What is Blacl 
History Month and why would it affect 
me? When, in fact, the month is not just 
for Black Americans, it is for everyone.'
Cigar anyone: PC behavior goes up 
in smoke at Blooms Cigar Camp
Out About Town
by Laura McClure
Monday through Friday, 
Blooms Cigar Company is just 
another eclectic offering in 
South Pittsburgh. But come 
Saturday, a small wooden sign 
and a few cigar diehards 
transform this inconspicuous 
store into a non-smokers 
nightmare and a cigar 
smokers haven.
Enter Blooms Cigar Store 
on any given Saturday and 
you enter the happily un-PC 
world of half-smoked cigar 
butts, chick motorcycle 
magazines, sports talk, and 
alcohol. This is Mark Adams 
Cigar Camp, and after almost 
four years worth of Satur
days, its here to stay.
Adams talks busily into the 
phone, cigar in hand, while 
the other campers relax. He 
looks like a 30-something cow
boy in his snakeskin boots and 
red knotted neck bandanna.
Amidst the clutter of ash
trays and paperwork that goes 
along with owning the only 
place within an hours drive 
of Pittsburgh that distributes 
cigars exclusively, he is cool 
and collected.
With a sweeping gesture 
that encompasses the entire 
room, Adams says, Saturday 
used to be a bookkeeping day
for me. This was an accident, as 
most things of good fortune are, I 
guess.
Given the mischievously boy
ish atmosphere in Blooms the 
nickname Cigar Camp was only 
appropriate. The smoke filled 
room was termed such by Pitts
burgh Symphony musician 
Cynthia Busch as she dropped off 
her husband one Saturday. The 
name stuck, and Cigar Camp it 
has been ever since. The campers 
love it.
Three and a half years now, 
its been going on, one of them 
nods. From the comer, another 
grins: Too long. Yeah right. 
Laughs Adams: Its about to 
break up my marriage and every
thing else, but [he shrugs] to hell 
with it.
Among this motley crew of ci-' 
gar aficionados, there is a pal
pable rapport. Many of them 
would never have even banged 
elbows were it not for the social 
respite offered each Saturday in 
clouds of cigar smoke. Here, ev
eryone is equal, be they psycholo
gist or physician.
They say it takes all kinds, and 
all kinds are what you find every 
Saturday in Blooms. According 
to Mitch Rabinowitz, Cigar Camp 
regular, Weve got lawyers, doc
tors, business people, regular 
people, students, you name it. 
And you know what? They all get 
along here. Your inhibitions - 
everythings left at the door. You 
walk in and say hello, how ya 
doin. You dont care about any
thing else.
On this particular Saturday 
anywhere between 100 to 300 
people will do just that. At any 
one time there are at least 15 
. people gleefully blowing smoke 
towards the ceiling and discuss
ing the merits of Panama ver
sus Cuban.
They stand backed by some 
powerful names - Art Rooney, 
Dave Brazil, and Dominic 
Denucci, to name a few.
All told, close to 500 faces 
grin out from the framed 
Polaroids that cover the walls 
like evolvingwallpaper. Lined 
up cigarless, Blooms patrons 
would appear to have little in 
common.
They span the ranges of class, 
culture, andhackground. Here 
in Blooms, though, they all 
have one thing in common: a 
cigar clamped somewhere in 
the midst of a big toothy grin:
But there is a uncommon 
mentality lurking here as well; 
a dry humor unknown to the 
politically correct movement. 
Penciled in above some of the 
pictures on the wall is the acro
nym: R.I.P.
These campers have, invol
untarily, stopped smoking. Not 
mentioning the unhealthy 
looking wart on another 
campers chin is a courtesy on 
par with not mentioning ca
reer monetary differences.
Like other camps every
where, Blooms Cigar Camp 
provides an escape from numb
ing everyday life. It is a haven 
for smokers in a city full of both 
present and implied No Smok
ing1 signs. Most places look 
down on you for smoking," af
firms camp regular Kurt 
Leland, but then again, 
Blooms is the exception to a lot 
of rules.
Cigar, anyone?
Laura McClure is a junior En
glish major.
CMU dazes and confuses columnist
PATF Pledge Walk strides against AIDS
By ALLXE KING
Tartan Staffwriter
On Saturday, April 22, many 
people in the Pittsburgh commu
nity will join together in a pledge 
walk to raise money for the Pitts
burgh AIDS Task Force (PATF) 
and other area AIDS service or
ganizations.
This years walk will not only 
mark a first-time occurrence for
a PATF Pledge Walk, _______
but it will be the first 
one for the city of Pitts
burgh as well.
PATF is a volunteeroriented, non-profit or
ganization that pro
vides many necessary 
services for HIV-posi
tive people.
Through PATF, a person with 
HIV or AIDS can obtain financial 
aid, food, legal services, job op
portunities, and other such es
sentials, which would be other
wise difficult to come by.
Providing such client services 
was the primary reason the Task 
Force was started. PATF also 
provides general education ser
vices to the community.
They have speakers, a library, 
and pamphlets, which aim to in
crease both education and aware
ness in the community.
Lara Sprague, a CMU member 
of PATF, is currently involved in 
organizing the Pledge Walk. 
Sprague is anxious to get the 
CMU community involved in the 
pledge walk, as well as in other 
local community service projects.
I would like to have people 
from everywhere on this campus; 
CFA CIT, GSIA and every other 
college [as well]. I also want the
I don't want anyone to feel 
excluded from this, as it would 
defeat the purpose.
- Lara Sprague, PATF member
various organizations repre
sented as well. I dont want any
one to feel excluded from this as it 
would defeat the [purpose].
Sprague sees campus involve
ment in this event as something 
that can have numerous benefi
cial outcomes: in addition to fight
ing a socially destructive disease, 
Sprague thinks that CMU can 
use this opportunity to expand 
its horizons in the community.
One of the results of this would 
be that the Pittsburgh public
the snooze bar five separate times. 
I threw on some clothes, thought
fully kept in a huge pile at the 
bottom of my bed and proceded to 
almost slip four times on the way 
to biology class.
I can stay awake in lecture withHorror Stories out problems, which is my
by Tom Harper S* tS Ztn
^ me...
Please go to sleep. Itll feel all 
better... yes... close your eyes...
thats good... just reelaxxxxx....
Shut up, BRAIN, or Fll jab you 
with a q-tip!
Sorry...
After bio its on to calculus and
would see that there is more to 
CMU than academics, comput
ers and Dante ... Outside of 
cmuOUT and the table on World 
AIDS, I have not Seen any [CMU 
involvement in AIDS-related 
causes].
There are, however, certain 
organizations on campus through 
which students have the oppor
tunity to become more involved 
in community services, such as 
University Outreach 
and Circle K More 
information about 
these organizations 
can be found on 
org.studentaffairs.volunteerboard, and in pam
phlets available from 
Student Affairs.
You must have at least $350 
worth of pledges per group in 
order to perticipate in the walk.
In addition, Sprague is work
ing on getting a space for people 
who would like to be involved, 
but not with any one group.
The walk will be about five 
miles in distance, beginning on 
East Carson Street in the South 
Side, and ending onFlagstaff Hill 
in Schenley Park.
For more information, call the 
Task Force at 242-2564.
I am tired. Very tired. I got to 
bed at a half-decent hour last 
night, but youd never know it 
from how I look and feel. My eyes 
are rolled so far back into my 
head that I fear they will never 
again see the light day, and I feel
like my head is ----------------------
going to flop on 
this keyboard 
at any time.
[Five min
utes later...]
Ahhh, that felt 
good.
I dont really 
know what it is
about anymore  I get ail my 
work done, set my alarm, toss 
and turn for a few minutes, fi
nally drift into peaceful slumber, 
but getting up seems like an eter
nal struggle.
After my power breakfast of 
Fritos and some form of soda I 
still have to drudge through the 
day not daring to look up because 
the sky will blind me. And it 
doesnt matter whether the sun 
is shining or not.
If it is it just makes my day all 
the worse.
A prime example is last Friday 
(today as of this writing).
I got up all right after hitting
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Euraii Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
STUDENTFARES
After my power breakfast of Fritos and 
some form of soda, I still have to drudge 
through the day not daring to look up 
because the sky will blind me.
then to physics, followed by an
other action-packed day at work 
in the E&S Library.
If Pm lucky, I can stop by the 
Wok and have a heaping order of 
General Tsos chicken, which is 
at the top of my list of all-time 
favorite things to eat.
My only gripe is it seems to 
have tryptophan in it, or else Im 
just plain tired.
I may intake the odd bit of caf
feine to prop my eyelids open, but 
thats as far as Im gonna go. Ive 
only taken Vivarin once (note: 
they are not chewable).
The question now remains a 
to how I can survive the rest ri 
the semester without becoming; 
caffeine-driven-sleepy-accidentwaiting-to-happen. Its a gottj 
thing I dont have to operate any 
heavy equipment over the coura 
of the day.
Everyone says that I should gel 
more fresh air. Here? The smoke
stacks of the steel mills may 
gone, but outside every academi: 
hall and dormitory is a d< 
nated smoking section.
I try and hold my breath when
ever I have to pass through. I 
imagine a gigantic student-pro
duced layer of smog all across 
campus.
Some people 
think I need 
physical activ
ity. I get plenty 
of it Tuesdays 
and Thurs
days in Tang 
Soo Do class.
Plus, I get to
scream real loud.
Now I gotta fit in some more 
activity on the other weekdays 
besides trying not to slip on the 
sidewalks they forgot to inun
date with salt.
Tom Harper is going to take a 
nap, but only after driving out to 
the Laurel Mountains and 
screaming some more. He can't 
take physics or chemistry any
more, so he is going to study the 
science of insanity. Expect a full 
report on the subtlties of this com
plex discipline in his next article...
$161 $209 $259 
$J35 $419 $195
EUROPASS supo rtde
Fares are from P itisburgh, 1/2 round trips, 
based on a round trip purchase. Taxes not 
included. Int'l Student ID may be required. 
Fares are subject to change.
LONDON 
PARIS 
MOSCOW 
TEL AVIV 
TOKYO 
MEXICO CITY
118 Meyran Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
PHONE; 683-1881 
FAX: 683-7242
Engineering 
Computer Science 
Geosciences 
Applied Sciences
INDIVIDUAL 
B INITIATIVE
INFORMATION
MEETING:
Date:
March 2, 1995 
Time:
7:00pm-9:00pm
Place:
Student Center, 
Room 208
INTERVIEWING:
Date:
March 3, 1995
Individual initiative has 
always played a major 
role in Schlumberger's 
growth and technological 
leadership. Today, 
Schlumberger employs 
48,000 people in over 
75 countries with annual 
revenues approaching 
$7 billion.
Schlumberger is 
comprised of two main 
business groups: oilfield 
services, which offers a 
complete range of 
energy exploration and 
recovery services; and 
Measurement and 
Systems which produces 
everything from utility 
meters to automatic 
test equipment.
The Schlumberger 
Companies value 
individual initiative. If 
you'd rather lead than
follow, and enjoy the 
recognition that goes 
along with taking 
responsibility for the 
work you direct, contact 
us today. We'll give you 
the support, training and 
opportunity you need 
to meet the challenge. 
Explore the world of 
Schlumberger - HTTP: 
II WWW.SLB.COM
Please Note:
Information Meeting open 
to all interested students. 
Your attendance at the 
Information Meeting is a 
prerequisite to your 
interviewing process. Please 
attend. Refreshments 
provided! Casual attire.
Schlumberger
Founded On Innovation. Expanded Through Technology. Worldwide.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
I

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 February 1995L3
1995 Auto Show kicks into gear
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Contributing Editor*"**/ GFf
Part carnival, part medicine 
show, the 1995 Pittsburgh Auto 
Show rolled into the David L.
Lawrence Convention Center last 
Friday. An annual exhibition 
sponsored by the Pittsburgh Au
tomobile Trade Association, the 
show is expected to attract 
150,000 visitors.
Thirty-eight foreign and domes
tic makers were represented, and 
as always, they brought some-thing old (for example, the Buick Ja80n Tier/Tartan Contributing Editor
Century,lastupdatedintheearly The 1995 Pittsburgh Auto Show dazzles car lovers.
of the Reagan administration) and some
thing new (like the Buick Essence concept car, said 
to resemble the 1997 Park Avenue closely).
Notable for their absence were companies like 
Peugeot and Alfa-Romeo, which have left the Ameri
can market after limping along for several years. 
This deprived me, and others, of the thrill of sitting 
behind the wheel of an Alfa Spyder and making 
vroom, vroom! noises, but Jeep and Eagle had 
something better.
If you were patient enough, you could try a 
virtual-reality simulated drive of the Jeep Grand 
Cherokee or Eagle Talon. The salesman there 
refused to tell me how it worked, but frankly, Im 
not sure he understood it, either.
Other manufacturers didnt have anything so 
revolutionary. Mention auto show to most folks 
and they think of cars spinning slowly on turn
tables as female models in low-cut gowns answer 
questions. There were plenty again this year, but 
in a first (for Pittsburgh, anyway), a male model in 
a tuxedo did the honors for Lincolns new Conti
nental. Either Ford Motor Company has released 
that theres something slightly bizarre about equat
ing sex appeal with horsepower, or else theyve 
released that women buy cars, too.
Lifes not all beer and skittles for the people up in 
the spotlight. Anita Willis of St. Louis was spend
ing her first show season with Ford at a display of 
the trendy, redesigned Ford Explorer 4x4. She said 
that shes starting to get the hang of the job.
Im finally starting to enjoy this, she said, but 
it takes a lot more than people think to get up there 
in front of everyone and talk. Willis was hired 
through a Fort Lauderdale, Florida, talent agency.
Some companies tried a different approach. In 
front of the all-new Chevrolet Cavalier was magi
cian Doug Scheer, who was performing for a large 
crowd with the assistance of a pudgy grade-schooler 
from the audience. Scheer guillotined the young
ster, who promptly yelled I know how this trick 
works, to the delight of the assembled.
The Cavalier Scheer that was performing in 
front of was significant in its own right. Completely 
redesigned for the first time since its debut in 1981, 
its the top-selling GM car.
Kevin Jones, a salesman representing West 
Mifflins Century III Chevrolet says the compact 
Chevy is the first American car to be officially 
imported into Japan on a large scale.
The biggest crowds at the show, by far, were not 
in front of a modest grocery-getter, but in front of 
the mean and tough AM General Hummer. A 
military all-purpose vehicle slightly adapted for 
civilian use, the menacing 4x4 (Arnold 
Schwarzenegger owns six) was the hit of the first 
floor.
Daryl F. Devine ofWright Automotive in Wexford 
says that his dealership sells only 30 to 50 of the 
$60,000 vehicles each year. Some of them go to 
people in construction or utility companies, he 
said, some of them are bought as novelties, by 
people who need to go off-road, or as show pieces.
The truck comes with either a 6.5 liter diesel or 
6.2 liter gasoline engine, climbs a 60 percent grade, 
and can ford up to 30 inches of waterall perfect 
for rough commutes.
Since Pittsburgh is a cultural backwater in the 
eyes of New York, we dont get the really cool show 
cars unveiled at Detroit or Paris, though visitors 
will be able to see the Chrysler Thunderbolt, the 
Pontiac Salsa, and the 1996 Chrysler minivans. 
And as always, theres plenty of free goodies (I 
recommend the KDKA-AM wind-chill conversion 
charts).
I didnt get to see Fridays protest by the Student 
Environmental Action Coalition from Pitt and 
CMU, which highlighted destruction of tropical 
rainforests by Mitsubishi. We were hustled by a 
guy trying to scalp tickets, though, so I guess thats 
something.
Whats that you say? You want to hear about 
horsepower and cubic inches? What is this, Car 
and Driver?
Circle K offers international service
By MICHELLE HALL
Tartan Staffwriter
How many people does it take 
to change the world? With the 
proliferation of service organi
zations on campuses around the 
United States, apparently more 
and more.
While the Circle KClub claims 
it takes only one, it has 10,000 
members hard at work. Circle 
K International is the worlds 
largest collegiate service orga
nization.
A college-based branch of 
Kiwanis International, Circle 
ICs 10,000 members hail from 
more than 500 campuses in 
seven countries.
Through a wide variety of community 
service 
projects, 
members 
gain the 
opportu
nity for 
personal 
and leader
ship devel- __________________
opment,
scholarships, career network
ing, and practical experience 
while making a substantial con
tribution to both campus and 
community. \
CMUs Circle K chapter is only 
a semester and a half old, but 
growing steadily.
The main objective is com
munity service, while develop
ing leadership and creating an 
international family atmo
sphere for people all around the 
world, said Jesus Jimenez, 
founder and president of CMUs 
Circle K chapter.
We have just begun this or
ganization, and in one month 
we have more than 20 dedicated 
and motivated members. We 
have accomplished several 
Projects in starting a club that 
will touch the individual lives of 
111 any, including the ones who
go out and do the community ser
vice, he added.
A freshman in CIT, Jimenez 
joined Kiwanis International two 
years ago through his high school 
Key Club. His experiences with 
doing service for Key Club 
prompted his efforts to raise a 
Circle K chapter here at CMU.
It really had an impact on my 
life in that it showed me reality 
outside of school work. It encour
aged me to see that what I was 
doing in school would affect the 
lives of many people, he said.
CMUs Circle K chapter, as well 
as the University of Pittsburghs, 
is sponsored by the Oakland 
Kiwanis Club. The two univer
sity chapters often share projects.
Proj ects we are currently work"Circle K is a place to take leadership for 
motivating the young and comforting the 
old, by showing them that future genera
tions aren't going to deteriorate."
 Cindy Yang, CIT freshman
mg on involve the Food Share 
Program which gets food to the 
needy who help the community 
but have trouble providing for 
themselves, said Kris Dahl, a 
freshman in CIT and vice presi
dent of CMUs chapter.
We also work with Family 
House, a hotel for people with 
family in the hospital, and pro
mote literacy in children through 
a program called Beginning with 
Books. We stress service through 
leadership and friendship, she 
said. All of Circle Ks projects 
concern improving the commu
nity, often focusing on the plight 
of children and the elderly.
Circle K is a place to take lead
ership for motivating the young 
and comforting the old, by show
ing them that future generations 
arent going to deteriorate, said 
Cindy Yang, also a freshman in
CIT and Circle K secretary.
In addition to Food Share, 
Family House, and Beginning 
with Books, Circle Kis involved 
with Ronald McDonald House, 
trash drives in Oakland and 
Schenley Park, toy drives for 
Childrens Hospital, and the 
International IodineDeficiency 
fund. They even put on plays 
for the elderly in nursing 
homes. In March CMUs Circle 
K chapter will attend a district 
convention in Lancaster, PA.
Although still working to get 
a charter and funding, Circle 
K is expanding slowly but 
surely. I think Circle K is a 
greatidea,saidDahl, It gives 
many CMU students who are 
not from he area a chance to
------------------------ help the
c o m m u - 
nity, as 
well as 
meet 
adults and 
high school 
students. 
The time
_______________ requirementis not 
that strict. You can contribute 
a few hours a month, she 
added.
Circle K is still very young 
but has potential, said Yang. 
Its been pretty successful in 
that a lot of people have ex
pressed interest.
CMUs Circle Kers will con
tinue to organize service 
projects while looking forward 
to receiving their charter in 
the near future. Though what 
they can do is limited due to 
lack of funding, any effort, it 
seems, is worth it.
Said Dan Coster, a freshman 
in CIT and Circle K member, 
It has not been around to do 
much, but I am sure that the 
children who got those presents 
felt good, at least for the mo
ment. And thats what its re
ally all about, isnt it?
Role Models provide direction for youths
MODELS, from page U.
[The program was started] 
with the help of several faculty 
members [ and other people], 
including Herbert Simon, 
Dorothea Pye Simon, Andrew 
Bames, Susan Ambrose [and 
several PhDs], who were 
Atkinsons advisors and board 
members. It took two and a 
half years to get support.
Initially, Atkinson asked sev
eral special interest groups, 
such as CMAP and Spirit, to 
see if they were interested in 
forming such a tutoring pro
gram and they agreed. She also 
said that the program costs 
veiy little, because most of the 
resources are already on cam
pus.
Carnegie Mellons resources 
must be exposed to the public. 
This is a way of giving back to 
the community.
In the first year, we worked 
with A Weil Elementary in 
the Hill District. I believe in 
the second year we picked up 
two more schools and in the 
third year, we picked up Vann 
and Madison. Today we work 
with all five elementary 
[schools] in the Hill District, 
[namely A. Weil, McKelvy, 
Vann, Madison and Miller], 
said Atkinson.
These children range from 
third grade to ninth grade and 
currently, the program is try
ing to include students from 
' the 10th grade. All of the stu
dents are selected by the prin
cipals of their schools, so 
Carnegie Mellon does not have 
any involvement in the selec
tion process.
Currently, the program 
meets three times a week, on 
Mondays, Wednesdays and 
Fridays. Maureen Brady said 
that on Mondays and Wednes
days, they mostly tutor the chil
dren and drill them on different 
things including multiplication 
tables and spelling.
Before they begin their les
sons, they say their pledge, said 
Jordan. The pledge reminds the 
children that they are role mod
els and represent their commu
nity. Therefore, they have to be 
responsible at all times.
If they finish their homework 
early, the children are taken to 
different areas ofthe campus and 
they are exposed to different re
sources such as the labs and 
computers.
We take so many things for 
granted. Just like email for ex
ample. When I take the kids to 
the computer labs to use email, I 
see how amazed they are. You 
just hit a button and a message 
can get to Ms. Elaine without a 
piece of paper. Its a fascinating 
concept! Through the children, 
we can see this from a different 
perspective. said Brady.
Friday is the childrens Fun 
Day. The children may be in
volved in different workshops 
ranging from chemistry to indus
trial management. All of these 
workshops are taught by 
Carnegie Mellon professors.
Of course, these workshops are 
geared towards their level, and 
through this, the children are ex
posed to different opportunities 
and different careers. Jordan said 
that even though the children 
are young, they will at least have 
some type of idea of what they 
could do in society. The activi
ties are also a reward for the 
children who have been working 
so hard during the week, he said.
This Friday, the children went 
to The O, a trip which I was also 
asked to participate in. It was 
wonderful to see a group of 60 
elementary school students walk
ing down with their Carnegie 
Mellon tutors. Some of them 
had their arms around each 
others shoulders while others 
were holding hands while gig
gling.
Michael Leonard Pattillo, 
one ofthe students in the pro
gram from McKelvy Elemen
tary School, said Its really 
fun. I learn different things. I 
learn about different cultures 
and see new things. [The pro
gram] has helped me with my 
homework and made me feel 
good about myself.
In terms ofthe tutors, there 
are m any impacts this program 
could have. I think its impor
tant for individuals to give 
something back to the commu
nity. I am twenty years old and 
Ive been in school for quite a 
while. I think its important to 
give help others to get to this 
point... Some people make a 
million dollars, but unless you 
get help from someone, youre 
not gonna get there. Basically 
I joined the program to give 
back to the community, said 
Jordan.
[The program] gives thechildren a hope for the future, 
said Atkinson.
Each year its getting bet
ter. The first time I joined the 
program it was, frankly, a bit 
disorganized. Still, there are 
some problems such as fund
ing. We also need more tutors, 
and currently, the ratio is 3:1. 
If we can get more funding, we 
can get more tutors [since many 
of the tutors are paid while 
others volunteer],"said Jordan.
If you are interested in join
ing theprogram or finding more 
about it, call John Lawrence 
JordanIIIat268-8201 oremail 
atjj2m@andrew.cmu.edu.
East End tutoring thrives at CMU
TUTORING, from page LI
Public Policy major, saw the 
program as a chance to experi
ence the neighborhood high 
schools and break the monotony 
of college life. I came to a point in 
my life where I felt the need to 
help other people. While most 
people are out of touch with the 
needs of others, I feel I am able to 
make that connection, he said.
Tutoring helps White see an
other perspective of society, 
through the eyes of school kids 
growing up in an environment 
different from his own. In this 
way, I can see what influences 
their ideas; where theyre coming 
from. One day there was a substi
tute in class, and the kids started
to draw on the board. Some sym
bols  funky letters that I didnt 
recognize at first. Then, I real
ized that they were gang signs, 
one representing Bloods. Until 
that moment, gangs had never 
been a reality for me. While I had 
read about them, and thought I 
pretty much understood them, 
they never became a tangible 
thing until then, he said.
Seeing it as a real challenge to 
motivate people who arent moti
vated, White finds these children 
far from dumb, yet unable to 
see where algebra fits into their 
lives. I look at it as my responsi
bility to change their attitudes 
about learning, he said.
Its really hard to put into
words what you get out of [tutor
ing]. Its mainly a personal fulfill
ment; a sense that youre doing 
something right, said White.
For Yenerall, its been very ex
citing, to see such a project come 
together so successfully. I am 
continually uplifted by the efforts 
of CMU volunteers. I know the 
rigorous workload of these stu
dents, and any extracurricular 
activity is highly commendable. 
They make time to participate in 
this program with enthusiasm, 
bringing with them a sense fresh
ness. I have had the privilege of 
working with CMUs finest.
Anyone interested should con
tact Kirk Yenerall at x8-8202.
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Sunday

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 February 1995
Old Man Donner makes a run for the border
Obviously the tomatoes have to be Turns out Quesadilla simply means 
pretty well chopped, or you just get big . little cheese, and these cheesy delights 
chunks and no sauce (for those who dont should put a big oP smile on your face, 
know, salsa means sauce en Espanol, Chop up the chicken of your choice 
and Arts mom alone makes some 28 (dark meats as good as white for this) 
different kinds, including one with pea- and fry it up in oil with the chopped 
nut butter, chocolate, and 15 kinds of chiles (or chile powder, if you already 
chili Ive never had it, but Art swears used up all your fresh ones); nows the
Old Man Donner
By Jason Roth
Hola, muchachosl
Yes, as you may have guessed, were 
making a run for the border (tm) this 
week, courtesy of Arts mom and my 
sister, Esther.
First, however, some embarrassing 
business. After awaking last Monday 
night with the severed head of my prize 
garlic beside me in bed, I determined 
that perhaps Id offended someone.
Lo and behold, I had broken the #1 
rule of journalism: I admitted that I 
voted for Nixon. Wait, sorry, thats the 
#3 rule! #1 is: Never misspell a name 
in print (#2 has to do with inner tubes).
So to Marcella Hazan, my sincerest 
and deepest apologies; if I ever see that 
Marcilla girl, Ill throw her headfirst 
into the street. That out of the way, lets 
get into some serious Mexican:
Salsa Borracha
10-12 chiles, chopped
2 large tomatoes, chopped
1 onion, chopped
1/2 can of beer
juice of 1 lemon
Thats pretty much it, actually. Art 
wrote very hot underneath the name 
of this dish, so adjust the number of 
chiles accordingly, bearing in mind that 
the boy eats jalapenos straight.
I cant emphasize enough the impor
tance of using fresh, real peppers here; 
Art gets his in Mason jars from a friend 
with a garden, which is fine, but canned 
or dried is no substitute (exception: a 
couple dried together with mostly real is 
pretty good).
its good).
The better the beer, the better the 
salsa; what better choice than Corona? 
Also, with the Corona in mind, why not 
squirt a bit of lime into the blend?
At any rate, mix it up pretty well with 
a fork or whisk, refrigerate a bit before 
serving, and there you go.
Guacamole
4 advocadoes 
1/2 small onion 
4-6 chiles
1 or 2 large tomatoes 
juice of one lemon 
pepper 
fresh cilantro
Youll need a big bowl for all this: peel 
the advocadoes and then smash them 
however you like  blender, fork, 20 lb. 
sledge... Chop the onion quite finely (the 
best way is 
to slice it 
very thin 
before chop
ping); chiles 
as well.
The toma
toes are to- _______________________
tally your
call; I dont love advocado, so I go with 
two; my advice is, try it with one and 
then judge.
The cilantro is pretty vital, so if you 
like guacamole, dont shirk. Once its all 
mixed together, chill for at least 1/2 
hour.
Chicken Cheese Quesadilla
soft flour tortillas 
chicken (dark meat is fine)
Monterey Jack 
chiles 
optional'. 
cheddar 
peppers
onions, tomatoes
"With the severed head of 
my prize garlic beside me in 
bed, I determined that per
haps Id offended someone.
time for your optional vegetables, as 
well (onions earlier, peppers and toma
toes later).
While youre doing that, you should 
(ideally) be flipping the tortillas con
stantly on a griddle or large frying pan; 
the goal is to heat them and add a bit of 
color, but not to make them crisp nor 
dry.
When youre about ready, you have 
two options:
1) add the cheese to the tortillas and 
fold them in halves; once the cheese is 
wholly melted, add the chicken.
2) put the cheese between two tortillas 
and, when it melts, put the chicken on 
top and add a third tortilla.
Your call all the way, chief.
Best thing about this dish: not only is 
it fat-free, but it also works as appetizer 
or main dish! Amazing.
This outpouring of Mexican, by the 
way, is a di
rect response 
to a certain 
John Doan, 
who has cho
sen to forgo 
the tradi_____________________ tional t-shirt
for an actual 
freeze-dried sample of Arts moms 
guacamole, air-mailed to his very front 
step in Switzerland.
Just goes to show that people really do 
win here in Old Man Dormers Kitchen.
Next week I think Ill give you some
thing that I made up that should go 
pretty well with this stuff on nachos. 
Hold on to your sombreros!
Mr. Gotti would like you to know that he 
doesn't find this sort of humor very amus
ing, and he has informed the editorial 
staff that they dont, either. Were not 
quite certain who will be writingnext 
weeks column. Oh, and we have no idea 
who *Esther is.
Thompsons art featured
By SHANNON GIBNEY
Tartan Features Co-editor
Like many of us, Javon Thompson 
strived for big things while living in 
a less than perfect world. Growing 
up in one of Pittsburghs worst neigh
borhoods, he spent much of his life 
resisting the ever-present gang vio
lence that plagued his community. 
This resistance took a myriad of 
forms: from writing an award-win
ning essay for the Pittsburgh PostGazette that denounced violence in 
plain language, to expressing him
self, his life, and his perspective to 
the world through his art. These 
nonviolent messages, as well as 
many other dimensions of 
Thnmprrfc 
life are 
explored 
through 
his art 
work, on 
display 
through 
February 
24, at the .
City 
County 
Building 
in down
town Pittsburgh.
Thompsons art exhibit is part of 
the 1995 Celebration of AfricanAmerican History of Art Exhibit, 
which is sponsored by Citiparks and 
the New Pittsburgh Courier. The 
exhibit features around 15 of 
Thompsons works, which include 
everything from a young black man 
staring straight into the viewer, eyes 
clear and full of hope, to the Cheetos 
Cat, cruising on a bright orange mo
torcycle. It is evident, through view
ing his (varied) works, that Thomp
son lived a spectrum of experience 
and that he strived to present this 
in his art. Themes such as love, fear, 
hate, respect, attraction, humor, dig
nity, and pain are all represented in 
Thompsons paintings.
However, the most salient theme
of Thompsons work is, by far, the 
black man in contemporary urban 
Amercia. Thompsons most provoca
tive works are paintings that explore 
the realities of this existence, and 
probe the viewer for his or her reac
tions to it.
One of the most powerful painting 
depicts a black man, head tilted side
ways, expression unforgiving and un
yielding. The mans burning hot, pinkcolored eyes sear through the viewer 
and strike a chord in all of us some
where  we understand anger be
cause we have all felt it before. But 
many of us do not understand the 
intense anger of the disenfranchised, 
unheard masses, because we rarely 
come into contact with them.
Thompson 
does not shirk 
from represent
ing this anger, 
nordoes he over
dramatize it. He 
conveys it by 
simply painting 
his understand
ing of the black 
men in his life, 
and we, as view
ers are forced to 
Photo by VineetAgamal negotiate that
meaning in our individual lives.
A pencil sketch of a black man cov
ering one eye elaborates on this theme 
of the realities of urban black life 
further. The message of the piece 
comes through loud and clear: some
times, the man seems to say, you cant 
stand to look at the world around you. 
Sometimes, you cant stand to look at 
yourself.
Thompsons self-portrait offers us 
more uplifting message altogether. 
Through the works presentation, and 
Thompsons facial expression in it, 
the painting asks the overwhelming 
question: what do I have to offer the 
world? Thompsons answer is con
tained in the essence of his stance, 
andhisgazeattheobserver.He seems 
to be saying: This is what I offer the 
world: this painting, and my art.
HOW TO HANG ON TO YOUR DOUGH.
(WITHOUT CRAMPING YOUR STYLE)
w!3 Separate needs from wants.
Hint: A bed is a need. A Mr. Microphone 
is a want.
~J Split the bill but only pay your share.
Why put in for someone else's swordfish 
if all you got was soup?
~3 Set aside money for emergencies.
Unless you'd rather call your parents 
for It instead.
~3 Keep your eye on your wallet.
Have a Citibank Classic card in case you 
lose it.The Lost Wallet Service can get you 
emergency cashr a new card, usually within 
24 hours, and help replacing vital documents.
'Based on available cash line.
 1995 Citibank (South Dakota). N A
CxnV^EQFE OVELLOt 
Wednesday, March 15th 
Career Center
H! unable to sign up for an Interview, please mail or FAX your 
resume and transcripts to: Micro Linear, Human Resources, 2092 
Concourse Drive, San Jose, CA 95131. FAX: (408) 432-0363. We 
are an equal opportunity employer.
% Micro LinearTHE ARTISANS OF ANALOG
^ip on your laptop and youre brushing up against our technol
ogy. Zap an electronic FAX off from your PDA or check out the 
hottest CD-ROM title on your multimedia workstation, and youre 
putting us to work again!
fiom computers and advanced networking (including routers, 
gateways and switches) to televisions, stereo equipment, 
measuring equipment and telecom technologyvirtually all 
electronic media depends on analog devices for A/D conversion. 
And Micro Linear people are the Artisans of Analog, creating a 
new genre in this generations most exciting technology.
A a newly hired grad, you will experience a compelling, 
rewarding experience from the start. Guided by our dynamic 
mentoring program, you will be designing right away. Not a bad 
beginning for an emerging artist.
^e leading OEMs in the world look to Micro Linear and our farreaching family of analog devices for truly inspired solutions. 
Pursue your craft at Micro Linear. And make an impact the world 
will notice!
imSnydSer /TatPrn /hnrPnaaot
if youre an MSEE graduate with strong transistor-level analog 
fundamentals, wed like to talk with you. Apply your skills to chip 
definition, circuit design, simulation, layout supervision, debug
ging and characterization, releasing the product to production. 
These are excellent opportunities to learn advanced analog IC 
design while developing systems engineering skills.
Micro Linear. Make a bold stroke. Sign up for an interview today.

---------------------------------------------------

and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
M-SOWkB&OrS HAVING 
i f\RE. 1 LOVE. TUE SMELL
^ FIRE ON -------.
JCoLw WINTER k&'&i

ISNT IT STRKNGE. HCW 
SMELLS ARE So EVOCATILE..
asG NR VAIG TROVpg3R 
SiBf
OU. I DUNNO. THAT FIRE 
HAS A SNORKY, BRAMB\SU 
____5MELL. f_________________
I SHOULD HAVE 
mown ANIMfsLS 
WCMLD UME 
WORDS FOR. 
STAEYLS.
HS! n -hSS-i 
abttMH atS 
Sti -,D 
tBh2hSH 
AUURVGO mi.
DOES YCUR 
MAGNANIMITY 
KNOW HO 
BNDSp /
rCOG oRCoPR 2CIG mICN DnS gGO 
-hMi TO BE A CUILD PRoDIGX. 93 
TU ATS WHY I'M WRlTlUG 
MS AUTOBIOGRAPHY 
GE.NIUS HNS ITS 
OBLIGATIONS.
flfiS. TEILING 
It THAT AWMALS 
THEIR OWN 
HORDS FOR x
SftClFlC 
SrtEUS? I
OK. WHATS TUE 
WORD FOR HOW 
WET LEM ES 
SMELL? ^
'SNIPPlD.WHAT'S TUE V TERRIBLE.
WORD FOR HCW L_.____I SMELL ? J '
THAT MW HOT 
CATCU ON.
YES, BUT I FIND ( WHAT D YCM YIANT 
THAT TERM A TO BE CAU.ED THEN:DEMEANING --------------------
AND SEXIST. / ^
A ' CHROMOSOMALLY 
ADVANTAGED YOUTH'.'
 Ito LONGER 
W\SH TO BE 
CALLED A "BOt
RWMIC VIOLENCE 
W THE MEDIA.
DOES IT GLAMORIZE 
VIOLENCE p SURE. DOES IT 
DESENSITIZE US TO VIOLENCE 
OF COURSE. DOES IT HELP 
US TOLERATE VIOLENCE ? 
YOU BET. DOES IT STUNT 
OjR EMPATHY FOR CUR 
FELLOW BEINGS? HECKLES.
Does it Coca- violence?
...WELL. THAT'S __________-
HARD TO PROVE. J
THE TRICK \S 
TO ASK THE 
RIGHT QUESTION.
AUU. WHAT COULD BE BETTER TUAN A 
SATURDAY G- MILE RUN AT PAWN 
IN 20-DEGREE WEATHER...
.FOLLOWED BY A B\G BcML OF 
GUMMY OATMEAL AND SOME DRY 
^-------------------- TOAST/ ^
UoW ABOUT SOME \ DRIED PRUNES. 
CRIED-UP PRUNES DO WE HAVE 
AND A ROOT CANAL? 1 SOME7? J
DoomesfouryBY GARRY TRUDEAU
SIR.ltMtTWP NOTICING YOU
los-@i,cde-t-dA SALARY FORME...
Mite YUR *50,000 
CONDUCT- WORTH! ONLY MA PROBLEM IS HE'LL
F6ASIBIUTY BE EXPECTING ME mm 10 KICKBACKerne ki k _ \ HIS PAO...
IMPRE5SIVE PROFIT MARGIN PeR UNIT, NO? "NOIHIN'BUT ORPHANS' 
COULPBEA REAL MONEY MACHINE:!
YOU PONT
a--M@-FOR. Ma. EITHER, PO YOU?
YOU'RE NO, NO...TH/STHINKJN6 ISCHICKEN0F6K1FPIN6 FEED. 1'VEGOT
nkeli @MyF iM ee dkaCkb
ARSNTYOU, PLINEP. \
ruF 20T h 
dMa--o t2 MILLION GOLDEN PARACHUTE.
GOOD OL! NEWT! HB CAME THROUGH WITH THE FUNPS 
FOR OUR FEASIBILITY
5TUPY! \ _C
WHICH I'LLA
@-s-n use!\
KIPS ARB
k MYUFB j
I @My3 m
JUST A ROUGH PRAFT. OHAT 
PO YOU THINK1
IF WE BILL OUTAT *20,000A POP, 'NOTHIN'BUTORPHANS" I COUUP OEAR^350,000 IN THE FIRST YEAR! I
1 DONT KNOW, STR.. YOU MIGHTPECHAL- LENGEDOHSOMEOF- YOURSUPPOSTPONS ABOUT THE NEEDS^ OF CHILDREN... 
35? SIR.THATS IN- (
SANE! HOW CAN [/
WE POSSIBLY V. CONTROL EASY, i 35KJDS? PUCTTAPE.
il8@7M9kioaSEEP MONEY, HONEY. WE'VE GOT1DUNDER- WRTTESSBEDS!
YOU 60T *50,000 JUST FOR THAT,SIR?
HONEY,THERE'RE FEW CHIU? CARE 
PROBLEMS THAT CANT BE SOm? WiTHPUCTTAPE.
' ADEQUATE. IFWEPONT LET'EM 
TEARAROm MORBIHAN ADEQUATE!
I ALREADY 
HAVE. 1SR1PlEPTTjANPn'S FEASIBLE. ^
WHEN ARB YOU GOING TOPOTHE FEASIBILITY [STUDY, SIR?
MT3UPGET PRETTY MUCH iAYS TTALL, HONEY...
LIKE i \WHAT?\[ 200 CALORIES [A PAY?
SIR, WHERE EXACTLY ARE WE GETTING OUR. CUENT5 FOR NOTHIN' la BUT ORPHANS?
BUT I SNT NOT FOR.THAJ MUCH LONGER.
KIDNAPPING* TVS NUMBER/ THREE IN1 NEWTSCONTRACT.
THAT'S G0IN6 TO BE *241.93, MA'AM. * I'LL NEED IT IN CASH... -
HO LOON, PLEASE.I HAVE TO GET 
THE MONEY FROM OUR COMPTROLLER.
THAT'S THE EASY PART, HONEY. WE JUST TAKE 'EM FROM UNDERAGE, UNFIT, UNWED> MOTHERS!
OH GOO P. 
IT'S THE 
BABY 
BOTTIEZ!
EXCUSE ME,SIR...UPS,r 
MA'AM.YOUHEARP ME-ALL 
50G5 0N WEKNICKS!
E/hn
HELU
Ri5
rAGG
6ltoNir\) (?
VJ EtU, I PUT TMoSt C00kt6S 
Ohi THE CouKJTeR TO COOL, 
AMO THE KJX.T TIME X
Loofcec^THE cooties luaDa
OOf95D AUU THAT REMAirtED 
-y WEE A PEv^J CeOMif. 
RE^^E^'aC.THr^,, 
ATCH Of- CoOklES 
. I AKEO LAST 
V iJEAR? y
MEEC? TO TA UK 
TO iJOO AfiOOT
WeAa RyH swadP;ifc 
kbh &EvJ UAVlOGv
I I lOSTAMTu^ buamep y 00.'LOSE TO HOME John m^phersonCLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON;
THE RESEtOTMEKJT 
TUAMEDTO AK36ER.
THE A^GEHTOAiOEO 
To SEGTHikJG, BaREL 
CoMTAWC RAC.E- J
HUC.T TuC^EEJ 
TO HANAf9YRAf9YDg , hlK HofeT.
Bur focxo, thPo^GH EVTEMSvve 
THEOAPVJ, I HA\iE COME TO 
PEAU7.& THAT My HOftT Goes uoAy Sacvto EAeo4V^^CHIUDHOOP. ____^
1 EAUTLE-Nou) I U)A? 
Jo ST PftOlECriOG OMTO 
aoo all m^ u*O0cPResiec?
KJE&ATVVJE FEU*J6. y
f I TUCMEO ^ 
SHAME IhiVJACO, 
AJP BECAME QOlTE S^OEPRESSEO. >
r/\tJOmK)T BEGAiJ 
TO FEEL 6uiuTy 
FoC HAVirOfc SOCH 
NEbATVVE FEELM6f,
It was several weeks before the Millsville Department of Public Works realized that it had mistakenly purchased a Zamboni rather than a street cleaner.
1 R.EMEKEC.THOSE toactEf. 
THEy TAST&P LOwSy. I 
ATE HAUF OF 'EM 2n7 ,hC 
p-h (hWp pB p-h 44fS S
We finally got smart and had speed bumps installed.
I'M FEE.UJ& WUCH 
ETTE. NOU. a0U 
KMOUO. FOB AUHIUE 
THE CE, X TH006WT My 80AijUmi 60W& 
L TO EXPLODE. J
\AjHy IS TUE TOP 0 F 
yooa UEAO REGI1N|1G 
TO QOVvJEe? J

---------------------------------------------------

NfikAwA
SA, TWE CAPITAL OF ffimilB 
( PRESENT PAY kOMc,ju, MA,)
GMyun ydi
HOW iw YOl/K 
MOTHER f I ... 
IVEED T(?
taa Ja[3
SHe HO WY l/K 
l?00M W/UT|N
Wt\ tI 
Theef
J.L
Whats a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
? X'n felly "'Hi, WendySorry' X liCH/en^f SafcM 
you in ex. wViilej youknov, 
every time.-tilings Seem "to 
be. ccdmmg dowin (Xro'Jod 
here., feomertVing---
/Wendell/ RandftM s
("trapped m-Hie washing
V \<xc.Vitne. PjgaW V
SUUDHI
1CCOEA
GooSHA
Laddergrams
by Mark Kantrowitz
In a laddergram, the object 
is to transform the word 
on the top rung into the 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
the other letters. For 
example, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
three steps: LEAD, LOAD, 
GOAD, GOLD.
GASp
SM0G
U/ELCoME To A 5PECIA 
CONDE/VSEDREALiry,
-X
6rt^
Co*n}iJSgp'? 
e EC it USE f4 A 1ocwk , 
b\ f-UWP4. bil-V 
Vou. ?LE06 !
e4wy1k THIS PAPER 
ToAfty A'?
MueY /
n'eeo y<u(2- Ao ! j
Copyright 0 1994 
by Mark Kantrowitz. 
All rights reserved.
TriteE 6uys Volum lelIS E/n* AM> G>efe \ 
IU.ST-TTME6 T t. tJhA.TIite
CiJ^iA.6^ \
Wanei MJD ^ /H. CAU
APPeM2- ft-S A 
Tool) i,| 
"PAMl/ yjALLH&uSej-> H^ie! I
.-v IFq HytK CgfT ftgfa-lTV
HEYf (iftiiW
llott)
WWAr A^EyM -pane, 
W WlUJEtl'i 
fftU-5.?
U^IOfJ BUS/ME S5., SAY, -1EP-I2-/  
piP Vo J*ST 
V/ftt*- 4*iT <5p 
THE UIPFCttJ 
CM\l
tt-LTH *2*-, PlSBWt-f
* p,KES25k.
Hey, t\ wIf3!4i1a-Y sv>Nu5i f/zw.
'Vie i^tAtt/T ftrfJs) ( uOQte Ijji/OED- By 
kU?)EU) P- I
see
THM6h( , 
Hi*CT Hts usi/ob y*^i
OH, Yox>e JfAU(5.
%
M*- Bur y*\
(i^Rg" wf CftwE 
fitoM.
^fAT THe ns1kdi3vy THft-r AAeftAj ?
IT MEftulS THAT U>H6M UP po^ UJITH you
x J ngKi..
fnitxos Aflg*/r
THE
^tuB - -nt'fft P;uTUftE CtT/ , ft*|p 
Nm owe: '^m'
y4 .M& MiiV
I 6u&s, V<M 
tJfDiJ'T 
That- me 
9-rrei- wMPA^'e$ 
UJfcfi-fc Ms>TiATiM. 
THPtr1- ^E*0 CMJluic
WITH ifc. "tHev 
WA*rr -TW6E crrf
Y01^ '(2.6 SM^OieT1 -\ (, A PfPFBUW
^iWD tr'Io*HA*/fto^EVT U>ma> -
-f^ lAML-V^ 
l? (ficA-te 
f/ae vo^
M -nte (M/PfufJ
?i-i { Yot<
HA/io fj PlAAJP ~fo 
f#AKlK)' HAWAII 
w!3~JHWt \I A-u^P 
A iuvveiJ Y*< '<*?
0 Iff 5" ~LTMh*l/ C-HH Vz/*1'

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 89. Issue 17DIVERSIONS
The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania20 February 1995Brady Bunch returns with successful motion picture
New Brady Bunch Movie puts them in todays society
I gy JON SLENK
fartan Staffwriter
How could I like this movie? I 
thought to myself when I saw the 
posters for The Brady Bunch 
tfovie. I mean, first of all, Ive 
seen maybe two episodes of the 
TV series (I didnt grow up in the 
States) and wont all of the jokes 
be dumb? The previews didnt 
exactly have me rolling on the 
floor, either....
We got to the theatre a bit early, 
and patiently waited for the show 
to start. It was a pretty large 
place and we didnt really think it 
would fill up. Turns out, much to 
our chagrin, that B94 had been 
giving away tickets for what must 
have been weeks. In the end, I 
dont think there was an empty 
seat in the house, and 
most were occu
pied by... 
high
school students! There was quite 
a bit of noise, and as the lights 
were dimming for the show, my 
girlfriend said with Allen-esque 
humor, I feel like Im 
autistic.
Anyway, on with the 
show. I actually liked 
it. The plot revolves 
around the Bradys evil 
neighbor, who wants to 
buy their house (hes al
ready gotten everyone 
else on the block to 
promise to sell) so it can 
all be razed and turned 
into a strip-mall. The 
Bradys really dont care 
to sell, so the evildoer 
takes advantage of the 
poor mail delivery sys
tem to intercept tax no
tices addressed to the 
Bradys. It turns out, 
they discover, that they 
have one week to pay
characters to be hysterical, but I 
pretty much didnt catch on to 
that. What I found interesting 
was the opportunity to juxtapose
Show creator Sherwood Schwartz talks about Bradys
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Diversions Editor
auction.... At first, I didnt really 
react the way most people 
did; they found the ex
aggerated tradeSherwood Schwartz, a man of a ripe 78 years 
of age, is the creator of, among other things, 
Gilligans Island and The Brady Bunch. He 
also sounds like he's 30 years old on the 
phone. Thanks to Paramount, I got a chance 
to join in on a conference call, in which I and 
other collegejournalists in
terviewed Schwartz, in or
der to shed some light on 
America's best known fam
ily and the most famous 
castaways since Robinson 
Crusoe.
Theo Westenberger 
The Bradys show their new faces in the old way.
$20,000 or else the house is up for then and now, and thus point
fingers at what makes our cul
ture just as ridiculous as that of 
the Bradys.
Check out the cameo appearmark foibles of ances from original Brady actors!
these Further plot twists and develop- Q: How far did
ment involve each of the chil- you go with the
dren, and a final song and dance Bradys? 
routine that saves the day. A: I was part of
So, basically, if youve seen the the original series,
show, you will appreciate the new as well as the aniversions of the old characters. If mated series. I was
you havent seen the show, you also part of the
will still find enough humor to movies, but I did
keep you engrossed, and you will not work on the
come to know the trademark Variety Hour. I
idiosyncracies of the characters. thought it was just
Either way, you might also find the wrong place for
the clash of new and pld to be the Bradys to be; it
amusing and even possibly inter
esting as social commentary. Id 
say see it at matinee prices, 
though.
Q: Gene Roddenberry 
(creator of Star Trek) 
was well known for 
hanging about on the 
set and overseeing the 
projects. Did you serve 
as a consultant for the 
series, or did you just 
create it and let the net
works do what they would?
A: I was always a big part of all of my shows. 
I could never let them go to the networks. An 
episode was never made without my approving 
the final draft, which always annoyed the direc
tor.
Robinson Crusoe. What inspired you to create 
the Bradys?
A: Im not sure about Crusoe, but I do know what 
inspired the Bradys. I was looking in a newspaper, 
and I saw that 60 percent of the divorces in America 
had children in the familys care! And then, I saw 
another story somewhere about a girl who was in 
a play at school, and the school had only allowed 
each student one ticket each! Well, the kids mother 
had just remarried, and 
the daughter was wor
ried that if she gave her 
mother the ticket, her 
new stepfather would be 
upset and think she 
didnt like him, but if 
she gave her stepfather 
the ticket, her mother 
would be upset, and it 
made me think: Kids are 
bothered by the most 
trivial things. A parent 
would just tell the kid to 
pick, but the kid will 
scrutinize their decision! 
(The above antecdote be
came an episode  ed.) 
Q: Rumor has it that you had to sing the 
theme song before the network would take 
Gilligans Island.
A: All true. With a sitcom where you have two 
families, you have no exposition required, 
but for something like GI, that was a 
problem.
They were having trouble with the con
cept, and I said, Just say it in the theme 
song every week! So, the night before a 
big meeting, I sat down and wrote the 
theme song, and that was the one used for 
the show!
Q: On the subject of that song: Did 
... and the rest become the Profes__________ sor and Mary Anne, or the other way
Elliot Marks around,
American Icons at breakfast: the A: For the first season it was and the 
Bradys In a typical scene at home. rest. Then, I thought that, well, the charwas inappropriate, in my opinion, to put them in acters are separate, they should be mentioned.So 
the center of a variety show. ' we recorded the song again, this time with their
Q: Gilligans Island seems to take from names included.
Elliot Marks 
Although the Bradys were successful as a 
singing act, Schwartz didnt believe that 
the variety show was a good Idea.
Porters posess fine flavors, despite poor aging
THE CORNER TABLE
By Jim Zelenka 
______________and Jon Ferro
The cable guy came by a couple of 
weeks ago. We are now technologically 
enabled, meaning that we have over 60 
channels, yet somehow there still isnt 
anything worth watching most of the 
time. Actually, thats not quite true; we 
have made a discovery of a form of com
edy that regularly reaches a level second 
only to MST3K Its called C-SPAN 1. 
Having watched the heads of our nations 
legislative branch in action, and learn
ing a lot in the process about why noth
ing is getting done, we have a very simple 
question: Who runs Barney Franks fan 
club and how can we join? No, wait, 
thats not it. Here it is: With all the 
concern about open government and 
| public honesty and food cleanliness and 
all, why arent freshness dates man< dated on beer?
As your loyal scriveners of brewery! related information, we think about this 
a lot (translation: we think about beer in 
general a lot, and this happened to pop 
lnto our heads in time for a column). In 
fact, we worry specifically about the num
ber of hands our bottles go through be
fore they get to our fridge and how many 
? of those hands dont realize that many 
I beer styles do not age well. Many large 
distributors achieve lower prices by or
dering in bulk; less popular or more 
e*pensive beers can often end up shelved 
for months under less-than-ideal condi
tions before being sold.
Some breweries have also become con
cerned about this most pressing of ispues. Brooklyn and Sam Adams are two 
that have for some time had prominent 
dates on the edges of their labels. Generally, the most common form of dating is 
fte freshness date, which is of the 
form, Best if consumed by .... This is 
typically applied to styles which, even if 
^ey can withstand extended aging, do 
Qt respond gracefully. Another com31011 form is the bottling date. This is 
kore like the dating of a wine or whiskey; it represents the time at which the 
beer was racked to its ultimate (well, 
penultimate) resting place.
One beer style which we wish were 
subjected to this form of labeling more 
often is the porter. Why do we care 
specifically about porters? Because, in 
contrast to our rant above, porters do 
benefit from a proper amount of aging, 
which makes it even more difficult to 
make sure were drinkingit at the proper 
time. The porter style first began ap
pearing in the 18th century British 
Empire. It is widely believed that it was 
generated as a synthesis of several con
temporary styles; perhaps this is why, 
early on, it was referred to as entire. It 
is at this time that freestanding brewer
ies began to oust brewpubs as primary 
producers of mass consumption beer, 
necessitating the buildup of a distribu
tion mechanism. Because the entire 
was rising to the most popular style of 
the time, it became associated with the 
deliverers, who would an
nounce their arrival at vari
ous pubs by crying, Por
ter!
Of course, some claim 
that this is mere specula
tion about how the term 
porter obscured entire 
as the name of this style.
Many of these people claim 
that the term derives from 
the name of a profession 
among which it was very 
popular  the porter. Of 
course, we know these 
people are wrong, because 
the first version is a much 
more entertaining story.
(Hey, remember the goat?)
The aging of the porter 
style was probably unin
tentional as it was becom
ing popular; brewers could 
hold huge quantities of por
ter for long periods in 
wooden tuns after produc
tion. During this storage 
period there would be 
growth of secondary bacte
ria that added additional 
flavor and aroma. Whereas 
this would be considered 
anathema in any contem
porary, established beer 
style, the everything-butthe-kitchen-sink treatment of this new 
style reacted well, and it is now consid
ered one of its defining characteristics.
Today, a porter is a very dark or al
most black ale brewed from roasted bar
ley. The kilning of the malt gives the 
body a taste ranging from coffee to cocoa 
beans to almost-burnt toast. While the 
nose and finish will often possess some 
hop character, generally the majority of 
the flavor of a porter will come from the 
combination of malts used to produce it. 
The agingmellows the initial harshness 
of so much malt into a smooth, easydrinking beer style thats at its best 
served at room temperature.
Jon Ferro thanks the editor and yields 
to the gentleman from Philadelphia such 
time as he may consume.
Jim Zelenka wishes Pittsburgh brew
ing supply stores kept Sunday evening 
hours and yields back the remainder of 
his time.
Nocturnals bores readers
a nasty cold?) in tracking some es
caped creature in one panel and then 
three panels later hes in an office 
meeting with the Good Fellas. Also 
in this first issue Brereton gives abso
lutely no background on characters. 
You cant even tell who are the good 
guys are (who arent so good).
After being especially negative, I 
feel it necessary to be a little kinder 
By Jason Andracki before this column ends. As I said 
before,
COMIC BOOK 
CHRONICLES
the art is some of the best 
Many great artists have made trium- painting in a comic that Ive ever seen, 
phant crossovers to writing. John Byrne It very detailed and extremely photoAixehot Porter is an excellent example of the 
style. The nose is malty without being overwhelm
ing. The start is slow, but it builds .to a smooth 
malty body. The finish is excellent a slight hop 
residue provides just enough bite to round out the 
rich, malty flavor. Aging provides a wine-like tang 
to the finish, which becomes a distinctive characThe Chicago Brewing Companys Big Shoul
ders Porter makes us wish that their products
The nose is that of a rich dark chocolateas is the 
color. It admits a very little bit of light, but only 
under the right conditions. The start is smooth and 
malty, and this flavor blends smoothly into a 
choeolatey body. The finish has the roasty-bumt 
characteristics of a black patent malt. The synergy 
of the components of this porter is quite amazing 
CBC is dearly a brewery to watch for in the future.
Hogue New Porter is something of a deviation 
from the traditional porter style. Its not as dark as 
most porters and is more heavily hopped. The 
lightness of the malt makes the body only some
what roasty and gives a somewhat delicate nose 
that does no t evidence the increased hopping, which 
is more readily apparant in the bite of the finish.
It is unfortunate that Sam Adams George Washington Porter is not bottled and widely distrib
uted. The beautiful black colour of this beer prom
ises quality, which is bourne out in the smooth body 
and gently hopped finish. Weve only ever found 
this in SA brewpubsy though/
has probably become a 
better writer than art
ist. Jim Lee did an ad
equate job with writing, 
also. And then there are 
some who didnt fare so 
well using their pencils 
to write rather than 
draw. Todd McFarlene 
belongs to this group, 
and although his me
dium is paints rather 
than pencils, Daniel 
Brereton is in that same 
company. As a result, 
even though the first is
sue of his limited series,
The Nocturnals, is great 
to look at, the writing is 
clichd and thin. Not a 
good makeup for a book 
that costs $2.95.
This is Breretons (whose past paint
ing graced the pages ofLegends of World's 
Finest) first shot at writing as far as I 
know, so maybe I should be a little easier 
on him. Then again, knowing it would be 
his first venture into writing, he should 
have made his book a little less expen
sive. In a nutshell, here are the fine 
sources The Nocturnals rips off: John 
Byrne's Next Men, Shamen's Tears, 
Mobfire, andHellBoy. And those are just 
the comic sources; Brereton also bor
rows from every monster movie and 
Mafia flick ever made. By the way, the 
story line is really trite and unoriginal.
In addition to being practically a pla
giarist, Brereton also commits a major
realistic. Brereton 
definitely belongs in 
the ranks of Alex 
Ross {Marvels), 
Chris Moeller (Sha
dow Empires, and 
the cover to this 
weeks Spectre), and 
Charles Vess (vari
ous covers likeBoo&s 
of Magic). I strongly 
encourage you to 
page through this 
book and check out 
the art, and then buy 
Legends of World's 
Finest (just released 
in the ever afford
able trade paper
back format this 
week. I guess it was 
Daniel Brereton 
week). For more of Breretons great 
work and some excellent writing by 
Walter Simonsen.
Also you might want to give The 
Nocturnals more of a chance. After all 
it was only the first issue, and Brereton 
is still new at this writing stuff. I 
slammed the first two issues of 
HellShock, and then it turned out to be 
fairly decent. However that was for 
$1.95 an issue, and this is a buck more, 
so I wont be sticking around for four 
more issues. Be back next week for 
something completely different. Well, 
sort of....
Jason Andracki is a sophomore proDaniel Brereton 
The Nocturnals basically rips 
off a lot of other books for its 
weary, recycled plot.
sin that is especially evident in rookie fessional writing major. He thinks
(or just really bad) writers.
Time passes throughout this book 
without an explanation of what hap
pened. An example, the one guy that 
always wears a scarf (he has bad breath?
books withjack-o'-lanterns on the cover 
should only be sold in the month of 
October. Feel free to flood him with 
hate mail for taking Todd McFarlene's 
name in vain. He likes it.

---------------------------------------------------

Work Hard, Play Hard...
TRILOGY
From its inception, the mission at Trilogy has been to become a software giant. As one of the fastest growing 
software companies in the US, we're well on our way. We are 100 people strong today, 
and we are looking to satiate our astounding growth with the best minds and most 
driven people in the nation.
The opportunity to work at Trilogy is the chance of a lifetime  with limitless possibilities for personal and 
professional growth. Instead of restricting employees to strict job classifications, Trilogy 
is organized in functional teams: the development team, the consulting arm, the 
marketing team, and the sales force. Ultimately, everyone creates his or her own job 
description; if you have the desire and skill to accomplish something that adds value 
to the company, we say "go for it!" At Trilogy, with self-managed autonomy comes 
great demand for performance. Nothing but the best is expected. Fortunately, with 
exceptional performance comes rich rewards; our compensation is not competitive: 
IT'S BETTER.
A young company  bounding with a unique energy and enthusiasm. The average age of people around 
here is about the age of our CEO  26. Every member of our team has intelligence, 
tenacity, aggressiveness, and the common inclination to challenge the impossible. It's 
an incredibly interactive environment, with a flat hierarchy outside of senior manage
ment. The learning "curve" is virtually vertical with training and immediate challeng
ing assignments. Responsibility for projects starts on day one.
Fortune called us "One of the 25 Coolest Companies." Quality of life is important. We realize that the most 
productive employee is a happy one. Everyone here puts a ton of energy into building 
this dream, so that "a fun workplace" will never be an oxy-moron at Trilogy. Sponta
neous trips to Vegas, sky diving excursions, and company dinners are not uncommon. 
As a reward for reaching our company goals this year, we all enjoyed a five day vacation 
on Maui! You could say it's all culture building, good for business  we just think it's 
fun.
They say your college years are the best of your life. 
They didn't work at TRILOGY.
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE SEND EMAIL TO ALEXA.LANGE@TRILOGY.COM
6034 WEST COURTYARD DRIVE, SUITE 130, AUSTIN, TEXAS, 78730, (512) 794-5900, FAX (512) 794-8900

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 February 1995L9
Thursday, February 23
The Advocate
The law has come a long way since the days of 
The Advocate. This movie, set in the Middle 
Ages (1022 -1963) stars Ian Holm, Colin Firth, 
and a pig that killed a Jewish boy.
Directed by a British person named Leslie 
Megahey, this film deals with Firth, who plays 
a lawyer who defends the pig against charges of 
murder. The main conflict is between the ac
cusers, a band of roving farmers, and the defen
dants, a band of roving gypsies. This allegory 
about justice and superstition is sort of like a 
BBC documentary and a British dramedy all 
rolled into a won ton noodle of art. And one of 
the major characters is a pig, which cant be all 
that bad.
Be there or be square.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Friday, February 24
Spanking the Monkey
Finally, a movie about CMUs favorite intra
mural sport! Starring Jeremy Davies and 
Alberta Wilson, this movie is about a young 
man who turns down an internship to take care 
of his ailing and sexy mother. One thing leads 
to another, and, well, you know how those 
things go: they start talking about school... she 
knits him a scarf... they doink.
Davies then goes out with a psychiatrists 
daughter, played by Carla Gallo, and starts to 
learn just what that guy Freud was talking 
about. Directed by David O. Russell, this movie 
seems like quite a find and has garnered rave 
reviews. See it with the one you love, preferably 
not your mother.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, February 25
Stargate
You figure something with a title so close to 
Star Wars would be good, right? Well, opinion 
is a varied and personal thing, so I wont say 
this movie is awful. Ill say its special. Thats 
better.
This is all about Kurt Russell and James 
Spader and their adventures on the planet 
Abydos that can only be reached with a giant 
ring surprisingly called a Stargate, and a bus 
pass. From there, you find out mean old Russell 
wants to blow up the Stargate and Spader 
wants to figure out the language of Abydos and, 
in general, practice some good taste and loving 
kindness. However, Russell is an army man, 
and he wont go for any of that sissy stuff. What 
ensues is a battle between the two and Jaye 
Davidson (fresh from The Crying Game), who 
plays the evil guy/creature.
Its a nice movie. It has a great personality.
At 6, 8:10,10:20 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, February 26
Color Me Blood Red
Ok. There are a lot of unknowns in this, so we 
wont worry about the cast right now. But, I 
think the basic plot merits mentioning. Heres 
what happens: this artist splashes a little blood 
on his canvas. Wow, he says to himself, I got 
to get my bad self some more of this stuff. So 
he takes,blood from a model and then from a 
bunch of other people. He is praised as a new 
Picasso. He is a wonderful and incredibly keen 
type of guy, now that he paints with blood.
It has a nice personality. Its sort of like the 
scary cousin your mom made you play with at 
family reunions and Christmas get-togethers. 
Hokey shmoke, Batman.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Disease movies ease flu sufferers pain
FILE 13
By Carey Clevenger
Battle of the Cories
First off, lets look at the results for the 
Favorite Corey Contest.
At last count, there were a total of five votes. 
The results were like this:
Corey Feldman: 4 
Corey Haim: 1 
This gives Feldman 80 per
cent of the vote. If he had been 
running for public office, he 
would have required only 51 
percent. So, Mr. Feldman, if 
you are reading this, I would 
encourage you to consider a 
career in politics; Feldman in 
96! Hey, he may not be old 
enough to be elected President, 
but we could at least make 
him mayor or surveyor or 
something.
Flu Season
Well, as Im sure youre all 
aware, we are deep in the midst 
of my favorite season: Flu sea
son! Thats right, that special time of year 
when we dont feel so bad about saying, Dont 
come near me!
Of course, flu season couldnt be considered 
a season if it didnt have its share of celebra
tions (mainly in the form of vaccinations) and 
timely decorations (like the Biohazard trefoil). 
And lets not forget all of the great flu season 
films!
The Omega Man
Despite its misleading title, The Omega 
Man has nothing to do with a college frater
nity. It is a tale of a bizarre virus which 
threatens all life on planet Earth. Charlton 
Heston reprises his role from Planet of the 
Apes as possibly the last man on Earth. 
There are a lot of mutants, some rotting 
corpses, and even more of Charlton Heston 
in an apocalyptic world.
The Andromeda Strain 
Once upon a time, Michael Crichton didnt 
have Steven Spielberg to make his books 
into movies, so he had to rely on a good plot 
and suspense instead of nifty effects and 
cheap thrills.
A good example of this is The Andromeda 
Strain, in which a mysterious virus wipes
TriStar Pictures Universal
Rob Lowe and Molly Rlngwafd head up an all-star cast of plague 
survivors in the ABC adaption of The Stand, one of Stephen Kings 
finest novels.
out an entire town in the Midwest.
A group of scientists in an underground 
lab may be the only hope for mankind. This 
is a very well-done sci-fi thriller, that will 
keep you on the edge of your ladder ... err, 
seat.
The Stand
In all actuality, the horrible plague in this 
story is more of a secondary background 
than an actual plot device, but the rotting
folks are pretty cool anyway.
A plague once again threatens all life on 
Earth, and an all-star cast of survivors must 
try to fight Satan or something. I havent 
read the book; I just saw the movie, so I cant 
really make sense of some of the stuff. How
ever, I think I can sum up the entire plot in 
four letters: m-o-o-n.
Warning Sign
It isnt very often you see a movie like 
Warning Sign, largely because G. W. Bailey 
is too busy flying into horse butts, or spray
ing his underarms with mace, or giving 
himself to chairs, or involving himself in 
other various and sundry Police Academy 
plot devices.
Warning Sign is the story of a research 
facility that becomes infected with 
a biowarfare agent that turns the 
infected into violent, raving luna
tics who want to kill each other.
Its up to the local sheriff, his 
wife, and a new-age research guy 
to find a vaccine to save them
selves and escape before the feds 
blow up the place. This movie 
scores very highly on the Raving 
Lunatic action scale.
Pride of the Yankees 
This movie has almost nothing 
to do with a virus. Its about base
ball; or, to be more exact, Lou 
Gehrig. He died of Lou Gehrigs 
Disease. He most likely dies of it 
toward the end of the movie, too. I 
havent seen it, so Im not certain, 
but it seems pretty logical to me.
Thats All, Folks!
Well, thats about it for this week. Just 
remember, if youre ill this flu season, you 
arent alone. Just pop one of those babies in 
your VCR, and youll be glad you only have 
the flu.
Carey Clevenger is a junior creative writ
ing major. He had the flu last week.
Pitt Theatre wins hand with Chemin de Fer
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Diversions Editor
The risks involved with the lat
est offering from the University 
of Pittsburgh Theatre Depart
ment were huge. First, the direc
tor, W. Stephen Coleman, is the 
head of the department, making 
this rare effort a representation 
of the entire department in the 
highest possible manner. The 
production had to be one of ex
tremely high caliber, or the de
partment would be shamed. Sec
ond, Georges Feydeaus Chemin 
de Fer is a farce, which is prob
ably the most challenging genre 
of play to stage, as well as to 
perform. And third, it was per
formed at the Stephen Foster 
Memorial Theatre, a space re
served for Pitts mainstage shows.
In every way, this play was the 
put-up-or-shut-up of the depart
ment  and they put up, giving 
what was possibly the best farce 
performance this journalist has
ever seen.
Chemin de Fer borrows its title 
from the ancient game, made 
popular in casinos under the 
name Shimmy. And like the 
casino game, Chemin de Fer 
comes full circle in the end, recre
ating its first scene as its last. 
The elements: two marriages, one 
affair, and one new marriage 
birthed from the original two. 
Throw in a town drunkard, a po
liceman, some stooges, a butler, 
andafewstrayfriends, andyouve 
got this play, a classic formula 
farce.
The timing in the show is noth
ing short of perfect; the difficult 
four-act moves along with the beat 
of a techno club, giving the audi
ence two hours of high-speed ac
tion.
Of course, I didnt know how 
long I had been in the theatre 
until I checked my watch after 
the play. The actors spoke their 
lines with characteristically good 
clarity, which, combined with
well-executed physical voicings, 
created an optimal level of com
prehension throughout.
The rhythm is only broken by 
the intermission between the sec
ond and third acts; the other two 
changes are done in blue light, 
with actors dancing about and 
sight-gags abounding. These mo
ments were indescribably pleas
ant, and a welcome addition to 
the show.
The highlight performances 
include, of course, David White 
and Laura Smileys protrayal of 
Alcide andFrancine Chanal, and 
Brian Byrne (who moves and 
speaks with the grace and ap
pearance of Kevin Kline) as F6dot, 
but the evening really belongs to 
the secondary characters.
David Novinskis portrayal of 
Hubertin, the towns drunk busi
nessman, does an act Chaplin 
would have revered; his justifica
tion of his habit, the gist of which 
was Im not drinking for plea
sure, Im Americanizing, sentthe
audience into rolls of pleasure, as 
he turns to Francine Chanal and 
announces with a wide smile on 
his face Ive taken to drink!
Byrnes stammering
Coustouillu brings the audience 
to the floor with a stumbling per
formance that hails back to the 
days of Dick Van Dyke in his 
prime.
Dereck Waltons arsenal of a 
whopping four characters sent 
me into hysterics on appearance.
And, lastly, I couldnt help but 
let out a yelp when it finally came . 
through to me that Kevin 
Wetmore was doing an increas
ingly less subtle Jim Ignatowski 
(from Taxi) impression in his per
formance as the butler Etienne.
In a nutshell, this play was 
excellent. The pace was quick. 
The dialogue never got too high 
above peoples heads, and the 
physical jokes are well-staged.
Pitt rolled huge dice on this one 
 but for once, it seems that 
Chemin deFerwas agood gamble.
Experts recommend Tai Pei for great dinners
ANCIENT CHINESE 
SECRETS
By do Ben Shachar 
and Aaron Weisberg
Wed like to start out this week 
by thanking our loyal reader for 
responding to our FREE Chi
nese Food! contest. The entry 
just poured in. Be ready for the 
exciting announcement next 
week when we reveal the winner!
Fact: Chinese food makes an 
excellent dinner.
Fact: Chinese food makes a 
spectacular lunch.
Question: What about break
fast?
After pondering for some time 
this week, we have come to the 
conclusion that there is just no 
satisfaction for those of us who 
eat Chinese food when it comes to 
breakfast.
Even we will admit that Gen
eral Tso looks mighty disgusting 
at hours that end in the letters 
a.m. Of course, there is always 
Dim Sum, but that is simply not 
traditional American Chinese 
food.
The solution is obvious. Why 
not take advantage of the already 
established multi-million dollar 
industry of breakfast cereals?
After all, what could be more 
appetizing than frosted-covered 
chopsticks with marshmallow 
Tsos (part of this complete break
fast)?
Without further ado, wed like 
to present our line of Chinese 
breakfast cereals!
10) Frosted Mini-Eggrolls 
9) Tofu Loops 
8) Sweet & Sour Smacks 
7) Crispy Noodles and Raisins 
6) Fortune Cookie Crisp 
5) Baby Corn Flakes 
4) Frosted Shrimp 
3) Wheaties with Peapods 
2) Fried Rice Crispies 
1) Lo-mein Charms 
0) Orange Beef & Fibre 
Alas, these cereals are only in 
our dreams. Perhaps someday, 
somewhere, at some time, some
how, well find a way to smoothly 
segue into the next part of the 
column. For now, this will have to 
do.
This week, we went to beauti
ful Tai Pei (5528 Walnut Street, 
683-2332), conveniently located 
in Shadyside.
As we entered, the first thing 
we noticed was a glowing Happy 
New Year projected onto the far 
wall. This was a rather pleasant
decoration, and we considered 
stealing it.
After we were seated, a wait
ress quickly brought us tea. Now, 
this wasnt just hot tea. It was 
darned hot [Tartan editing]. In 
fact, this is the hottest tea we 
have ever been served in all of 
Pittsburgh. We spilled a bit and 
are currently looking into a law
suit, in the hopes of winning mil
lions of dollars or infinite amounts 
of Chinese food.
When we got our soups, we were 
pleased to discover crispy noodles 
beside them. The egg-drop soup 
had a corn flavor to it. The hot 
and sour was better than most 
others weve tried, and the wonton 
soup, for lack of a better descrip
tion, was colorful.
The main entrees arrived a little 
late, but luckily the waiters wit 
and charm compensated. When 
we asked him about the General 
Tsos chicken, he replied, Its 
made of chicken. The sauce is 
made of chicken broth. The 
chicken broth is made of chicken. 
We were amused.
The Tso itself was a little too 
tangy, but overall very satiating. 
One peculiarity we found across 
most of the dishes was that they 
were sticky. However, we have 
been to Tai Pei many times in the 
past and can safely say that this 
is not always the case.
The orange beef had real beef! 
Were talking about real pieces of 
beef here, not beef McNuggets. 
Our friend Dan says, The or
ange beef is orange-marmaladish. This orange is probably 
the best weve had in Pittsburgh 
yet.
One of the lighter dishes we 
had was cashew chicken. There 
was very little sauce, and we could 
really taste the chicken, plain as 
it was. There was also celery in 
this dish, and we love celery.
One last plus to Tai Pei is the 
individual bowls that white rice 
comes in. We have seen this in 
Chinese restaurants in the past, 
but we are always thrilled to see 
them again. Good job, Tai Pei!
Well, the waitress poured our 
tea for us, the waiter did standup, the bar was big and shiny, 
and each dish was garnished with 
butterfly-shaped carrots.
The food was excellent, pricey 
as it was, and the Happy New 
Year thing looked cool. We give 
Tai Pei four and a half out of five 
Tsos! Congratulations!
Fortune of the week: Help, Im 
being held prisoner in a fortunecookie factory!
And which wonderful restau
rant will we eat at next week?! 
Ancient Chinese Secret!
I

---------------------------------------------------

FILMS
The Advocate will be playing in Doherty Hall 
2210 on Thursday at 5,7:30,10pm, and 12:30 am.
Spanking the Monkey will play Friday in 
Doherty Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Stargate will be shown this Saturday at 6,8:10, 
10:20 pm, and 12:30 am.
Coior Me jBiood/JedisplayingSundayin Doherty 
Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Metropol presents a listening party featuring 
the music of Massive Attack, sponsored by Virgin 
Records on February 24. Everyone attending the 
8:30 pm event will have the chance to take in some 
pretty swanky music and win CDs and other 
prizes. For information, call Brigit at 688-0359.
The Renaissance and Baroque Society will 
present LiveOak & Company in a program en
titled Lanterns of Fire vocal and instrumental 
music of Renaissance Spain, March 4 at 8 pm in 
Synod Hall, 125 North Craig Street. Tickets are 
available at Classical Tracks, PittStudentUnion, 
Carnegie Mellon Student Information Desk, or by 
calling 682-7262. Ticket prices are $25, $19, $13 
and $7 for full-time students with ID.
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society will 
present the Cleveland Quartet and King of 
Klezmer Giora Feidman on March 6 at 8 pm at 
the Carnegie Music Hall. All ticket holders are 
invited to a Pre-Concert Conversation with mem
bers of the Cleveland Quartet hosted by WQEDFM producer Ted Sohier. A lobby concert featur
ing the Duquesne University Cello and Piano Duo 
will follow at 7:30. Tickets are $7 for students, and 
otherwise $25. For more information call Joan 
Sher at 624-4129.
The University of Pittsburgh Department of 
Music presents the University Chamber Orches
tra in a concert February 22 at 8 pm in Heinz 
Chapel. Admission is free. The orchestra will 
perform Canzone No. 2 by Giovanni Gabrieli, 
Concerto in E minor by George Phillip Telemann, 
Violin Concerto in B flat by Jean Marie Leclair, 
and the world premiere of Octet for Brass by 
Pittsburgh composer Henry Papale. For more 
information, call 624-4125.
Carnegie Mellon Music Department presents 
the senior recital of Nancy Kranak, oboe player, 
on February 20 at 8 pm at the Mellon Institute 
Auditorium. Admission is free. On February 25, 
the Cuarteto Latinoamericano will be performing 
at 3 pm at the Mellon Institute. Tickets will be $10 
for senior citizens, Carnegie Mellon faculty, staff 
and students. Also at the Mellon Institute, Rebecca 
Bower, trombone player, will be having her Fac
ulty Recital on February 27 at 8 pm. Admission is 
free.
River City Brass Band presents Those Fabu
lous Fifties on March 11 at the Carnegie Music 
Hall at 8 pm. For more information or reserva
tions, call 322-RCBB.
NOTICES
Carnegie Mellon University-Student Dor
mitory Council is sponsoring a blood drive on 
Wednesday February 22, from 1-6:45 pm at 
Resnick House and the West Wing. The blood 
drive is open to the public. Though walk-ins are 
welcome, donors are encouraged to call Central 
Blood Bank to schedule the time of their appoint
ment at x2-2548.
The New Works Festival, dedicated to the writ
ing and production of one-act plays, is accepting 
scripts for the 1995 season. Deadline for the 
submission of plays is April 20,1995. Previously 
submitted scripts are ineligible. No musicals will 
be accepted. Plays cannot have been profession
ally produced or published. Informal stage read
ing is permissable. A maximum length of 45 
minutes is strictly enforced. There must be eight 
characters or fewer requiring only simple sets. 
Please send two copies of the script with a cover 
letter including name, address and phone num
ber to: New Works Festival, 125 Melvin Drive, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15236. For more details contact 
Donna Rae at 655-9224.
Muslim Student Associationis having a clothes 
drive campaign from February 20-27. Cardboard 
bins will be placed in Hammerschlag, Baker, 
Doherty, and Wean Halls, as well as in residence 
halls.
Carnegie Mellons Center for Cultural Analy
sis will host on February 24 at 3:30 pm in Baker 
Hall 235A a 1 1/2 hour symposium devoted to 
addressing the question: What is Cultural Stud
ies? Invited speakers include anthropologists,
historians, and experts in language and litera
ture. All are invited to attend.
Hillels Jewish University Center will be hold
ing a meeting on February 22 at 7 pm at the JUC 
for those interested in learning more about their 
Womens Interest Group. The group is setup to 
address Judaism from a female perspective, by 
exploring feminist themes and discussing related 
issues with prominent women in the Jewish com
munity. Email rsbj for more information.
Dr. James Maloni will be discussing how popu
lar ideas can influence peoples positions on life 
events. The presentation will be on February 23 
at 7:30 pm at Calvary Episcopal Church,Walnut 
Street and Shady Avenue. Please call 362-2295 
for more information.
Baroque Rome: A Microscopic and Tele
scopic View of the Papal City, a lecture by 
Joseph Connors, Professor of Art History at Co
lumbia University and past director ofthe Ameri
can Academy in Rome, will take place on Febru
ary 22 at The Frick Art Museum. The lecture will 
be held at 7:15 pm. Individual tickets are priced 
at $12 for Frick members, $16 for non-members, 
and $5 for students. To reserve or for more de
tails, call 371-0606.
The Islamic Center of Pittsburgh, 4100 
Bigelow Blvd., holds the five daily prayers and 
during Ramadan also has taraweeh and freeiftar. 
Friday prayers are at 12:15 pm. Call 682-5555 for 
information.
MEETINGS
ART
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents Anton 
Chekhovs classic The Cherry Orchard in reper
tory with the contemporary Stars in the Morn
ing Sky by Alexander Galin from February 24 
until March 11 at the Kresge Theatre.
Hewlett Gallery presents a computer art instal
lation, Pages from the Book of Skies, by sculptor 
Rob Fisher in collaboration with Andrew Witkin, 
Carnegie Mellon Professor of Computer Science 
and Robotics. The exhibit will run from February 
21 through March 18. The opening reception will 
take place on February 23 from 6-8 pm. Admis
sion is free.
Forbes Gallery will be showcasing the work of 
graduating seniors in the Art Department  
Michael Beard, Paul Snelson, and Leonard Hunt
 from February 21-26. The reception will be 
February 24 from 7-9 pm. Gallery hours are 12- 
6 pm Tuesday till Sunday. For more information, 
call X8-2081.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-denominational student study group, provides a 
weekly forum for inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings are held Tues
days at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning, room 
236. Call Dave Weiner at 431-4047 for details.
The Fencing Club meets on Sundays at 2 pm, 
Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays at 6:30 pm in 
the Fencing Club Room (formerly Activity Room 
B) in the main gym. For more details, email cd2b, 
call 862-2899, or subscribe to emu.student.fencing.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Thursdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A in the main 
gym. For more information, email cd2b, call 862- 
2151, or subscribe to assocs.KenpoJKarate.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in Doherty Hall 
Room 1212. For more information, call 268-2114.
Student Alumni Relations Council (SARC) 
meets every Wednesday at 5 pm at the Alumni 
House. New members are always welcome. For 
more information, email kl3x or subscribe to 
assocs.SARC.
Kappa chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, the na
tional service fraternity, invites you to attend 
meetings, which are held every Thursday at 8:30 
pm atMM103 (Breed Hall). Seethe bulletin board 
near the front of Doherty Hall for information on 
upcoming activities.
Carnegie Mellon Vegetarians meets at 9 pm 
on Thursday nights in DH1217. For more infor
mation, subscribe to assocs.cmu-vegetarians.
Student Environmental Action Coalition
(SEAC) meets every Thursday at 8:30 pm at the
SEAC office, Student Center 112. If you thin}; 
environmental changes need to be made on cam. 
pus, or if you would like to participate in environ, 
mental issues on campus and nationally, then 
come and join. For more information, please email 
Teresa Leonardo at tl29 or Noemi Barabas 
ng25.
The CMU Shotokan Karate Club meets 
Thursdays at 7:30 pm and Saturdays at 11:30 am 
in Thistle Hall. Advanced classes meet on Tues. 
days in Activity Room A in the gym at 6:30 pm.
The Modern Languages Department invites 
you to join their International Language Table 
for lunch in the Morewood Food Court. Wedne; 
days at 12:30-1:30 pm there are the French table, 
and the Russian table. On Thursdays, join the 
German table at 11:30 am  12:30 pm, and 
Fridays, the Japanese table from 12-1 pm. From 
12-1 pm there is the Spanish table in the Hu
manities and Social Sciences Student Lounge 
Wednesdays. Also, on Wednesdays at 12:30-1:30 
pm, in the GSIA Commons, there is an Italian 
table.
The mens basketball team will compete at 
home against the University of Rochester on Feb
ruary 25 at 1 pm.
The womens basketball team will be compet
ing at home against the University of Rochester 
on February 25 at 3 pm.
The mens and womens swimming team will 
be competing at the John Hopkins University 
invitational at noon on February 25.
The mens and womens indoor track team 
will be competing at the Robert Morris College 
Invitational all day on February 24.
The mens hockey club will be competing atthe 
WPCHA Playoffs on February 25. The semi-final 
game will be at 5:30 pm at the Indiana Ice Center. 
The Championship game will be February 26 at 
4:15 pm.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Student 
Center room 224, Monday through Friday. 
Weekend Masses are celebrated at 10:30 
am and 8 pm every Sunday in Posner 
Hall. For more information, call the 
Newman Oratory Center at 681-3181.
Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes Avenue (near South Craig 
Street), offers and celebrates Eucha
rist every Wednesday at noon and 
Sunday at 11 am. Call 682-6886 for 
more information.
Hillels Jewish University Center, 4551 
Forbes Avenue, atop Cafe Arabica, celebrates 
Shabbat on Fridays with good food, good 
friends, andgoodtimesat6pm. Call 621-8875 
for more information or email hc89.
Muslim Students Association holds 
daily midday prayers at 1:40 pm in 
the Student Center room 224.
Study circle follows on Satur
day. Finger or email msa 
for more information.
II
