Students await trials
Hearing dates for the students 
arrested last week on drug pos
session charges have not been 
disclosed as of yet. All six of the 
students sought seperate legal 
representation and the original 
hearing dates have been post
poned.
According to the police report, 
the recipient of the package con
taining one pound of hallucino
genic mushrooms was Stephen 
Mueller. His girlfriend, Jen 
Feissel, as well as Mike 
OSullivan and John Kwak 
were also arrested at the house 
in Shadyside  the site of the 
bust. OSullivan and Kwak, who 
are residents of the house, re
ceived four counts of drug vio
lations and one count of tamPlease see DRUGS, page 8
Ple PasPaD
Administration 
hikes tuition
By MICHAEL T. ROSE
Tartan Contributing Editor
The price of attending Carnegie Mellon 
will increase by $1,250 for the next aca
demic year. the administration announced 
last Monday. The increase for 19911992 
reflects an overall rise of 8.9 percent in 
standard undergraduate tuition.
The tuition hike, approved by the Board 
of Trustees executive committee meeting 
last December, is in line with expectations 
set by the 1990 Tuition Committee report 
released on May 18 of last year. The com
mittee, chaired by Vice President for En
rollment William Elliott and composed of 
administrators, faculty, parents, and stu
dents, originally recommended the increase 
and specified the $1,250 figure.
According to Elliott, the increase sup
ports CMUs efforts to provide new ser
vices. [We want to provide] as much edu
cation for as low a price as possible, he 
said. Elliott also notes that CMUs tuition 
is in the low range of tuitions among its 
competitor schools. When compared with 
other first-tier national colleges and uni
versities, the quality of a Carnegie Mellon 
education exceeds the cost of tuition, he 
said.
To assign a number to CMUs tuition 
ranking, Elliott compared 1990-1991 tu
itions among the top 30 private institutions 
Please see TUITION, page 6
Ex-student dies 
in Gulf accident
By LAURIE WILKISON
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Air Force First Lieutenant Jorge Arteaga, 
a former CMU student, was killed when a 
B-52 bomber crashed into the Indian Ocean 
on February 2.
Arteaga, 26, was enrolled in the Air Force 
ROTC program at CMU and was a patriotic 
guy who really felt strongly about things... 
very proud, said his former college room
mate Clarke Simmons (H&SS, 86.)
Arteagas plane suffered a massive elec
trical failure and crashed into the ocean 
whil e returnin g from a bombin g run. Thre e 
members of the crew survived. Three oth
ers ejected downward and were killed, as 
the plane was too close to the water.
Simmons and Arteaga got to know each 
other in the Rangers, a joint Army/Air
Force organization, and they became 
roommates their junior year. Simmons said 
he believed Arteaga was honored to be 
given the chance to go and fight in the Gulf. 
It sounds strange perhaps, he said, but 
when you train for something, you want to 
go and use it and contribute.
Arteaga spent three years at CMU before 
transferring to the University of Pittsburgh 
in 1987 and graduating with a degree in 
computer science. He was the only non
scholarship Air Force cadet at both CMU 
and Pitt. [Arteaga] was in the program 
because he wanted to be in the Air Force, 
he wanted to fly... that was his goal, said 
Simmons.
Following his graduation, Arteaga went 
through flight training in California and 
was stationed at the Air Force base in 
Please see ARTEAGA, page 4
University extinguishes smoking on Pitt campus
By MICHAEL COLAIANNE
Tartan Staffwriter
The University of Pittsburgh 
officially became a non-smoking 
campus February 1, according to 
Lawrence Keller, director of En
vironmental Health and Safety 
at Pitt. Given the severity of this 
new policy, many people believe 
it is doubtful that Carnegie Mel
lon will follow Pitts example.
The new regulations designate 
all of Pitts buildings as Non
smoking. Private offices may 
choose whether or not to adhere 
to the No Smoking policy on an 
individual basis, but those offices 
frequently used for entertaining 
or for group meetings will recog
nize the ban on smoking. Should 
any deans or department heads 
find that a restricted smoking area 
would be appropriate, a request 
may be made through a formal 
petition procedure.
Pitt intends to handle smoking 
within university housing just as
The intent is not to be punitive, but 
to encourage a healthy environment. " 
 Lawrence Keller, 
Pitt director of Environmental Health
and Safety
hotels deal with the situation, certain buildings or certain floors 
Based upon the demand for hous- will be designated as Smoking. 
ing where smoking is permitted, Keller cautioned, however, that
any integration of smoking areas 
will be gradual and that Pitt will 
remain a Smoke Free campus 
according to the new university 
policy directed by the Office of the 
President.
Like all university rules, smok
ing regulations will be enforced 
through the student government, 
staff committees, and the Faculty 
Senate. No specific penalties have 
been outlined for those found 
smoking where it is not allowed; 
violations will be considered like
any other infraction of university 
policy. The intent is not to be 
punitive, but rather to encourage 
a healthy environment and a 
healthy community, says Keller. 
The response has been mostly 
positive, but some negative. One 
Pitt student smoker thinks the 
new policy is too extensive. I 
guess the administration has a 
right to do it in their buildings, 
but as far as dormitories go, I 
think its unfair. Those students 
Please see SMOKING, page 4
A Phi O, Senate revamp elections
By FARRON W. LEVY
Tartan Contributing Editor
After a volley of fault-finding, A Phi O and 
Student Senate are revamping the election 
Process. Regulation violations forced Stu
dent Seriate elections to be invalidated in 
the fall, and further problems plagued this 
semesters second attempt.
In response to the recent elections, Stu
dent Senate placed an ad in The Tartan 
4] expressing its apologies concerningthe election mix-ups. Senate pointed 
out, however, that according to its constitu
tion, it is prohibited from running elections 
and the responsibility belongs to A Phi Os 
Election Committee.
According to the ad, there were a variety 
of problems with the elections for which A 
Phi O was responsible. The voting stations 
opened late; no sign was posted at the election 
site announcing the election, and, the list 
continued, several candidates, whose peti
tions were invalidated, were never notified.
Despite these problems, A Phi O deemed 
the election results valid, and has since 
responded to Senates accusations. Yes, 
some of the stuff was our fault, but others 
were at fault as well, said A Phi O brother 
Conrad Zapanta, a senior biomedical engi
neering/mechanical engineering major.
A Phi O accepted responsibility for open
ing the polling booths later than advertised 
 citing adverse weather conditions and a 
manpower shortage  and also acknowlPlease see SENATE, page 5
Carnegie Mellon freshman forward Jeanine Megahan goes up for a shot against Washington Universitys Amy Piggott 
as junior forward Amy Buxbaum looks on in a game last Friday. The Tartans triumphed in overtime, 56-54. For more 
coverage of Carnegie Mellon basketball, see page 13.
From the baseline....
Violence is possible 
anywhere, anytime  even 
among friends.
See page 10.
Mens basketball wins two of 
three and breaks a CMU 
scoring record.
See page 13.
CMUs Purcell takes leave
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan News Editor
Lately the Carnegie Mellon ad
ministration seems to believe the 
adage that silence is golden, espe
cially when discussing the leave 
of absence taken by artist-lecturer Randy Purcell last week.
Its a private matter, said 
Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
C. Murphy. Out of respect for 
[Purcell], I cant say anything.
Its in his best interests  and 
in the best interests of the Uni
versity  for him not to say any
thing, said Provost Angel Jordan,
partment head [MarilynThomas], 
the dean of Student Affairs 
[Murphy], and the provost [Jor
dan] not to say anything about 
the matter, said Purcell. Stu
dents have called me wondering 
if Im okay, and all I can tell you is 
that Im physically okay. 
According to a memo addressed 
to Students in the CMU Jazz 
program, Purcell, also the direc
tor of CMUs jazz band, is taking 
a leave of absence from his 
teaching position in the Carnegie 
Mellon Department of Music for 
personal reasons, effective imPlease see PURCELL, page 6
PleP alsDlleR R UG PSR,pgG
Randy Purcell conducts a concert 
during Homecoming 1990.
and I dont want to comment 
further on the matter.
I have been told by my deinside
Classifieds..................................15
Comics........................................L6
Diversions................................Lll
features......................................LI
8TION66666666666666666666666666666666666666A
Ports..........................................13
University Calendar..........L16
ET4 MTKOgR66666666666666666666666666665C
CMU students perform in a 
10-minute play festival at 
Birmingham Lofts on the South 
Side.
See page LI.
Explore storybook tales in Jodie Foster stars as a FBI recruit 
CMU dramas production of Into tracking a serial killer in the new 
the Woods. 77>e Silence of the Lambs. For a
See page Lll. view see page L13.

---------------------------------------------------

Admi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccx
THIS JUST IN...
Bush forsees recessions end
NEW YORK (DJ)  President Bush predicted 
the recession will be over by the middle of the year, 
saying, in a couple of quarters well come out of 
this, and then well have a robust economy.
In remarks to the Economic Club of New York, a 
nonpartisan group of senior executives, Bush also 
defended Japan and Germany, nations that many 
in the U.S. have accused of contributing too little to 
the Persian Gulf War. And he warned that U.S. 
economic relations with the Soviet Union wont 
improve so long as Moscow is cracking down on 
independence movements in the Baltics.
Most of Bushs speech was devoted to reassuring 
his business audience about the economy. I think 
weve got a real opportunity before half the year is 
over to start seeing a recovery, to see us come back 
on a growth pattern, see us resume our economic 
vigor, he said. He added that he hopes interest 
rates will decline further.
But Bush also vowed to resist what he called 
pump-priming, or makework programs to 
stimulate the economy through government 
spending. He said some aspects of the recession are 
psychological, and he urged consumers to show 
more confidence in the economy. In particular, he 
sought to reassure people who have avoided travel 
out of fear of terrorism.
I think whats needed is a boost of confidence, 
Bush said. I understand that some people are 
afraid to travel because of security.... Weve got 
good security, weve got good intelligence. And I 
think the American people should have confidence 
in travel and tourism. And I think people should 
come here with a renewed sense of confidence. 
The administrations forecast of a short, shallow 
recession is shared by many private economists,
but it is being challenged by some Democrats on 
Capitol Hill. I dont see any signs of recovery, 
Senate Budget Committee Chairman Jim Sasser 
(D-Tenn.) told Chief Economic Adviser Michael 
Boskin and Treasury Secretary James Brady.
On other issues, Bush took pains to reassure the 
public that the war effort is proceeding smoothly 
and that he hasnt ignored domestic needs.
Asked whether U. S.-Soviet trade relations can be 
improved, Bush said, When we see repression in 
the Baltics, it is very hard to have business as 
usual. He said Moscows crackdown on indepen
dence movements in the Baltic republics of 
Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia is a big problem, 
and it concerns me deeply, and it concerns the 
American people deeply.
At the same time, he defended his decision to 
maintain ties with the Soviet Union and China. 
Bush said the new world order he seeks can only 
be possible with dialogue with Moscow and Beijing.
In defending Japan and Germany, the president 
cited Bonns recent pledge to donate $5 billion more 
to the war effort and Japans pledge of an additional 
$9 billion.
Bush said his administration is taking steps to 
deal with the recession, citing his continued advo
cacy of a capital-gains tax cut, development of a 
national energy strategy, and a set of proposals for 
the banking industry introduced Tuesday.
Bush also said that some problems he saw in the 
banking sector might be attributed to overzealous 
regulators. I think some of the regulators in the 
past got overzealous, and I think that scared some 
of the banks, Bush said. But he added, Just to be 
fair about it, I think some of the banks just made a 
few bad loans, and it hurt them.
Cheney predicts ground war
DHAHRAN (AP)  Officers 
in a U.S. unit that is expected to 
play a lead role in a ground 
assault say the attack will be 
prodigious in size and speed.
But U.S. Defense Secretary 
Dick Cheney for the first time 
has raised the prospect of a limitedinitial ground engagement.
You are going to see entire 
corps moving across the battle
field, said Colonel Leroy R. 
Goff, a brigade commander in 
the third Armored Division.
We havent seen elements of 
that size moving since the North 
African campaign inWorld War
II, he said. He did not give 
figures, but U.S. corps in Saudi
Arabia have up to 100,000 troops 
each and thousands of tanks.
Cheney and General Colin 
Powell, chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, arrived in Saudi 
Arabia today to assess the readi
ness of U. S. and other allied forces 
for what many believe is an inevi
table ground war.
Cheney, en route, raised for the 
first time publicly the prospect of 
a limited ground campaign care
fully designed to force Saddam 
Husseins army to move from 
deeply dug bunkers into the 
bullseyes of U.S. pilots.
You add the amphibious ele
ment or the ground forces in the 
fashion that forces him to move
out of his prepared positions 
and its moving out of those 
positions that makes him vul
nerable once again to the air 
force, Cheney said. Those com
ments suggest some sort of 
limited offensive. In the past 
Cheney and Powell have promised a swift and violent cam
paign using most, if not all, of 
the U.S. firepower.
Still, alimited campaign could 
give allied ground forces an op
portunity to test Iraqs response. 
It could also force Iraqi units 
out into the open for new aerial 
assaults and give late-arriving 
U.S. ground units the time to 
prepare for an all-out offensive.
Aid to Jordan policy wont change
WASHINGTON (D J)Secretary of State James 
Baker said that he doesnt perceive any change in 
U.S. aid to Jordan, despite comments Wednesday 
from Jordans King Hussein indicating a stronger 
alliance with Iraq in the Gulf war.
President Bush said that he is concerned about 
the shifting position of Jordan in the Persian Gulf 
war.
Baker, testifying before the Senate Foreign Rela
tions Committee, said that those comments simply 
indicate that the U.S. and Jordan have fundamental 
differences in their views with regard to the action
taken by allied forces against Iraq.
The king accused the allies of bombing civilians, 
hospitals and religious sites unnecessarily. He also 
called for a cease-fire, which the U.S. opposes.
Baker took the position that the U.S. should try 
to understand the pressures King Hussein faces, 
with a highly pro-Arab sentiment in that country.
Baker also indicated that the withdrawal of aid 
wasnt likely to be considered, offering his assess
ment that the situation in Jordan could be worse.
Considering alternatives to the king, it is not all 
that bright a picture, he said.
Congress considers payroll tax cut
WASHINGTON (DJ)  A payroll 
tax cut has re-emerged as a major 
issue for Congress and the administra
tion, pushed by an unlikely combina
tion of liberals and conservatives.
The issue has immense attraction 
across the political spectrum because 
of the tax relief it offers both employers 
and their lower-class and middle-class 
workers. Maneuvering has especially 
picked up among some Republicans 
still smarting over last years budget 
debate, which left the GOP seen as the 
party of the rich.
Supporters got a surprise boost this 
week from an endorsement by Senate 
Majority Leader George Mitchell, the 
first from a congressional leader of 
either party in the year since Sen. 
Daniel Moynihan (D-New York) first 
proposed to cut the tax, which supports 
the Social Security and Medicare pro
grams. The leaders, like President 
Bush, have been concerned that the 
proposal would add to the deficit and 
threaten the future of Social Security.
One House Democratic leader sug
gested Mitchell plugged the tax-cut
proposal to get out in front of his troops 
on the issue, recognizing it might pass 
this year. The endorsement is more 
widely seen as the Maine Democrats 
counterproposal to Bushs call for a capital-gains tax cut, which for two years 
Mitchell has been instrumental in de
feating on the argument that it benefits 
the wealthy disproportionately.
Though other congressional leaders 
remain cool, all sides are eyeing the 
issue. Under current law, employer and 
employee each pay a 7.65 percent tax on 
wages  6.2 percent for Social Security 
and 1.45 percent on Medicare. Moynihan 
and Kasten propose to reduce the Social 
Security tax gradually to 5.2 percent in 
1996, while raising the maximum wages 
subject to the tax to $82,200 a year from 
the present $53,400. Another proposal, 
from Rep. Tom DeLay (R-Texas) and 
Sen. Malcolm Wallop (R-Wyo.), pairs a 
similar payroll-tax reduction with a lower 
tax rate on capital gains.
House Democratic leaders, who knew 
in advance of Mitchells plans to bless 
the tax-cut proposal, have declined to 
join with him. But they are studying
options that combine a reduced pay
roll tax with a larger taxable wage 
base, in a way that raises taxes on 
upper-income workers enough to offset 
the tax break for lower-income and 
middle-income taxpayers.
The trouble is, Democrats fear that 
any tax cut isnt likely to be great 
enough to get wide notjice among lowerincome and middle-income taxpayers, 
while upper-income Americans would 
object to their increased taxes.
Im sympathetic to the idea of 
middle-income tax relief, but we cant 
do something like this without first 
making sure it wont harm the Social 
Security system, said Sen. Lloyd 
Bentsen (D-Texas), chairman of the 
tax-writing Finance Committee. And 
second, I dont know how we pay for a 
payroll-tax cut of any magnitude.
Senate Republican Leader Robert 
Dole of Kansas, who has been under 
pressure from some GOP conservatives 
to back the tax cut, said, Were look
ing at it. But he clearly remains 
skeptical, and said of Mitchell, I dont 
think he knows how to pay for it.
United Nations plans to 
deliver medicine to Iraq
UNITED NATIONS (DJ)The allied 
air war against Iraq will limit operations 
to provide a bubble of tranquility for a 
United Nations convoy of medicines be
ing sent to Iraq, a U.N. official said.
James Grant, the director of the U.N. 
Childrens Fund (UNICEF), said a con
voy sent by UNICEF and the World 
Health Organization (WHO) will take 
the equivalent of a planeload of medical 
supplies to Iraqi women and children, 
probably late next week.
UNICEF and WHO are discussing the 
suspension of hostilities around the con
voy with the allies, Grant said. Aerial 
operations are being conducted by 
Americans, British, French, Italians, and 
Kuwaitis.
At this moment, what you have is a 
bubble of tranquility, which is that the 
convoy that will be going down an agreed 
corridor at an agreed date, and agreed 
time, and both sides will agree to honor 
that, Grant said.
Both sides will have agreed, we ex
pect, in advance, that they will not con
fuse military operations with this con
voy, he added.
The supplies sent to Iraq will be mostly 
pediatric doses of medicines and are 
mainly drugs that an army would already 
have stockpiled in abundance, Grant said, 
addressing concern that they would be 
diverted to the army.
Grant also expressed skepticism about 
the Iraqi Ministry of Healths claim that 
more than 4,000 Iraqi children have died 
due to lack of medicines and infant for
mula caused by the U.N. embargo.
I think its worth noting that in that 
same period of time, in normal times, 
you would have that degree of deaths of 
children in Iraq, so one must... recognize 
that there is a fuzzy line here, he said.
DGr, nIRGi, oTOIpG,f 
Dow Jones, inc. 
hmfTOp nf 
Rick Quinn
wMedJah
JDPesewP
lutwew
PSG lTO,RUW uiiRoG R, UTr mooGKpRUW 
mKKgRompRTU, iITN WITOK, Ti ,pOvGUp, 
rST rTOgv gRyG pT nG oTU,RvGIGv iTI 
IG,RvGUof RU TUG Ti pSG  wKGoRmg 
JUpGIG,p lTO,G,6
emoS wKGoRmg JUpGIG,p lTO,G RU pSG jmIWmIGp jTIIR,TU dTNKgG4 R, m 
BxnGvITTNb AxKGI,TU mKmIpNGUp6 PSIGG mvvRpRTUmg wKGoRmg JUpGIG,p 
kITOK, rRgg nG STO,Gv JU sG,URy lTO,G6 PrT AxKGI,TU STO,G, rRgg 
RUogOvG F vTOngG ITTN, mUv . ,RUWgG ITTN,- pSG xKGI,TU STO,G 
oTU,R,p, Ti F ,RUWgG ITTN, mUv . vTOngG ITTN,6 cSRgG mgg AxKGI,TU 
STO,G, JUogOvG . nmpSITTN,b pSG xKGI,TU ,ORpG Sm, 1O,p TUG nmpSITTN6 
a, m IG,Ogpb pSG xKGI,TU STO,G NO,p nG TooOKRGv nf NGNnGI, Ti pSG 
,mNG ,G46 PSG jmIWmIGp jTIIR,TU STO,G, RUogOvG m yRpoSGU mUv gR3RUW 
ITTN6 PSG sG,URy lmgg ,ORpG, vT UTp RUogOvG m yRpoSGU6 JU TIvGI pT nG 
GgRWRngG iTI oTU,RvGImpRTU iTI m wKGoRmg JUpGIG,p lTO,Gb m ,pOvGUp 
WITOK NO,p Sm3G mp gGm,p GRWSp NGNnGI, L,G3GU RU pSG om,G Ti pSG 
STO,G RU pSG UGr SmggHb mUv prT mgpGIUmpG,6
PSG ,KGoRiRo WTmg Ti pSG lTO,RUW uiiRoG RU KIT3RvRUW pSG wKGoRmg JUpGIG,p 
lTO,G, R, pT GUoTOImWG ,RpOmpRTU, rSGIGRU pSG gR3RUW GU3RITUNGUp 
oTNKgGNGUp, pSG gGmIURUW TKKTIpOURpRG, Ti pSG IG,RvGUp, RU3Tg3Gv mUv 
rSGIG ,KGoRiRo GvOompRTUmg WTmg, TOpgRUGv nf pSG NGNnGIxIG,RvGUp, mIG 
OUvGI,pTTv mUv GUSmUoGv6
aKKgRompRTU iTIN, mIG m3mRgmngG RU pSG lTO,RUW uiiRoG mUv NO,p nG iRggGv 
TOp mUv IGpOIUGv nf9 8GnIOmIf 5Ab5005
Walk-in Tutoring
Sunday through Thursday 8-11 pm
CalculusWeH5403PhysicsWeH5427
ChemistryWeH5205Academic WritingWeH5205Intro to ComputingWeH5427
The Right Place To Turn
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center, Division 
of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccxP
Fall Festival brings out international colors
gy A.J* DURAZZI
fartan Features Editor
pall semester this year will add 
something more to life at Carnegie 
Mellon. Students here will take 
part in CMlFs first International 
Fall Festival.
The Festival is one of the results 
0f the need to increase interna
tional awareness and contacts on 
campus as well as President 
Robert Mehrabians motion for a 
festival of this kind, according to 
the Festival committee chair, 
professor Peter Stearns of the 
History Department.
The Festival serves a dual 
purpose: to make the fall semes
ter more pleasant and to increase 
international awareness on cam
pus, said Stearns. The Festival
committee, which consisted of 
three student representatives 
provided by Student Affairs, de
cided that the Festival will focus 
on a region of the world each year. 
The committee has chosen Asia 
for the first festival.
Most of the schools that have 
this type of festival... [make it] a 
smorgasbord of places all around 
the world. We wanted to do 
something a little different, said 
Steams.
This year it will be Asia, which 
is a region with great diversity. 
Looking to 92, the region will be 
Hispanic America, since its the 
500th anniversary of Columbus 
discovering America.
The Festival will take place 
Wednesday, October 23, through 
Saturday, October 26, with after
noon and evening activities. 
These [activities] will include 
films, dancing, art displays, 
booths and food booths, debates, 
discussions, and an Asian costume 
dance on Saturday night, said 
Steams.
Classes will not be cancelled for 
the duration of this years festival, 
but they may be in future years, 
according to Steams. Classes will 
not be cancelled, but we would 
ask the professors to keep the 
festival in mind when scheduling 
things.
Maybe in the future it would 
work better to have Fridays off, 
he said.
Although the structure of the 
festival is determined, details are 
as yet undecided. Weve got a 
general format, said Steams, 
The Festival serves ... to make the 
fall more pleasant and to increase 
international awareness on campus. 
 Peter Stearns 
history professor
but obviously its flexible. Were 
eager to have campus-wide sug
gestions about speakers, topics, 
themes.
Since detailed planning will be
gin immediately after spring 
break in March, Steams asked 
for suggestions to be submitted 
before then.
Steams said that the Division 
of Student Affairs will be hiring a
half-time administrator to take 
care of specific details, with the 
festival committee and dean of 
Student Affairs monitoring the 
project. In addition, there was an 
interest survey done in the fall 
that has provided the committee 
a pool of interested students which 
it will be calling on in the near 
future. The more people contrib
ute, said Steams, the better it
will be.
The location of the festival is 
also uncertain.
Considering the probability 
that Skibo will be razed for the:' 
beginning of the new University 
Center, the committee is looking 
for other campus sites in addition 
to convenient off-campus sites.
Steams said there has been 
mention of competitions and 
prizes, but that campus input will 
make the decision. These would 
be fun, he said, but they are notyet organized. The committee 
would like to attract the sponsor
ship of international organiza
tions, with the possibility of air^ 
line tickets to the region of focusi 
as a prize. It would help if there 
was a student interest [before 
plans were made], said Stearns.
Pitt SAE chapter adopts new alcohol policy
By JASON 
McDONALD
Tartan Asst. ----- ^ ^
Sports Editor TARTAN 
NEWS 
The stereo- ANALYSIS 
typical image of
the fraternity party suffered a 
major blow last weekend as the 
University of Pittsburgh chapter 
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon instituted 
bring-your-own-bottle policy 
for all its future parties. The fra
ternity cited the reduction of li
ability as the major reason for the 
policy change.
It helps solve a lot of problems 
for us, said Bill Thomas, presi
dent of the Pitt chapter of SAE. 
It reduces our liability, and its 
less hassle for us.
Were taking a load of liability 
off our shoulders... because were 
not as responsible for what goes
on as far as people getting intoxi
cated, said Pitt Inter-fraternity 
Council Chair Darin McMullen, 
who is also a SAE brother.
The Pitt chapter held its first 
BYOB event last Saturday night, 
and according to McMullen, 
Things went really well. It was 
easier for us, the brothers, to enforce Pitts policies. It went a lot 
better than anyone thought it was 
going to, and people still seemed 
to have the same amount of gen
eral fun.
Although McMullen was 
pleased with the success of the 
program, he acknowledged that 
You cant expect it overnight to 
be 100 percent successful. In ev
ery house youre going to have a 
couple of guys who bitch and 
.moan; those are little kinks that 
have to be ironed out, but that 
will come in time.
McMullen also cited other fac
tors for the decision. I would say 
that [influence from SAEs na
tional headquarters] was a major 
factor, he said. The only other 
thing that played into this is that 
SAE here doesnt want to be the 
chapter that ruins it for everyone 
else, so were trying to take actions 
... to run parties safely and with 
less liability.
All it takes is one house to 
really mess up anywhere, and that 
could be the end for the Greek 
system, if its severe enough. 
SAE Director of Alumni Ser
vices and Risk Management John 
Perkins saw the BYOB program 
as more of a choice than a pres
sure. We have a policy of not 
using house funds to buy alcohol, 
and the BYOB program is an al
ternative to that policy. I support 
their decision completely.
However, CMU junior SAE 
brother Matt Ireland, president 
of Carnegie Mellons Inter-fraternity Council, said the idea of a 
similar program at Carnegie 
Mellon is not feasible.
If one house were to go BYOB, 
it could really be its downfall  
social suicide, if you will, he said. 
If one house starts doing some
thing totally different from the 
other houses, then theyre going 
to be the ones ousted from the 
social scene.
According to Ireland, coopera
tion among the Greek system is 
the best way to tackle the issue of 
responsible alcohol policies. If 
were ever going to approach this 
problem, were all going to have to 
do it together, and that includes 
the administration, too, he said.
As it is now, a lot of people 
arent willing to do this because
the administration hasnt neces
sarily said You cant do this.They 
havent set down any specific 
guidelines to anyone. Until that 
happens, I dont think [the frater
nities] are going to consider it. 
Ireland is also skeptical due to 
the history of similar programs. 
Ive heard plenty of discussion 
from plenty of schools, he said. 
Ive heard cases where its worked 
very well, and some where it 
hasnt worked at all.
Although McMullen cited 
pressure from national head
quarters as a factor for the deci
sion, that pressure is not unique 
to SAE. A lot of national head
quarters are now stressing a lot of 
non-alcoholic ideas, said Ireland, 
or, if it involves alcohol, keeping 
it within the statutes of the law. 
Its not just SAE; there are plenty 
of other nationals that have pretty
much the same guidelines.
Perkins also emphasized that 
alcohol control policies are not 
unique to SAE. Almost every 
major fraternity has similar 
policies in effect, he said.
As far as the future of the Pitt 
BYOB program goes, McMullen 
doubts that the University will 
mandate the kegless party for all 
fraternities, but rather that in
dividual houses will make the 
decision to switch. I think it will 
be one of those things that will 
spread, he said. One house may 
say SAE did it and its working 
well. Lets try it. Then another 
house will say Those two are doing 
it, and so on.
Id like to see that because wed 
be taking steps in alcohol pre
vention and alcohol awareness 
without having it forced on people. 
It would be a volunteer effort.
Fresh homeade dough spun right before your eyes...
Four Star Pizza 
Welcomes You Back 
With This Fantastic Offer!
Send early. Stay late.
16 CHEESE PIZZA 
$2.99
A Large Cheese Pizza
WITH ONE TOPPING FREE!
$ gpQ-ADDITIONAL 
An., ^ TOPPINGSuniy 50C each
8m,p FREE Delivery
683-0400
Beat out the competition this Valentines Day 
with some terrific strategy. Just call your FTD* Florist and send die FTD Flower 
Basket Bouquet. And to be sure your Valentine gets one, send it a day or two early 
And she may ask you to stay late. ___
Offer good Sunday thru Thursday
Now available Friday and Saturday 
One 16 Pizza only $4.49
FOUR S1AIT PIZZAOffer Valid 
To Deliveries Made 
To Campus 
Address Only.
Original Hotdog Shop 
3901 Forbes Ave. Oakland
Phone 621 -0453
Offer not good for delivery

---------------------------------------------------

Odmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a AA -iGslnsf xccx
Possible rent increases irk fraternities
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan News Editor
Fraternity housing lease rates 
may increase drastically next 
year, according to a memo from 
Director of Housing Tony Martin.
At the present time, Im esti
mating that a proposed lease rate 
increase for the fraternities for 
next year will be in the area of 25 
percent, says the memo. Im 
hoping that we can sell it to the 
fraternities based on a plan to
make substantial improvements 
to their quality of life.
While housing rates have gone 
up several times in recent memory 
due to inflation, this increase 
would go to fund major physical 
improvements in fraternity 
housing, said Martin.
Physical Plant had a close look 
at fraternity houses in the past 
several weeks, and has started to 
draw up plans for improvement, 
especially systems and structural 
work on the houses. He contin
ued, Next years budget will fund 
some improvements as part of a 
long-range plan.
According to Vice President for 
Enrollment William Elliott, 
The fraternity houses have been 
undermaintainedover past years. 
[Vice President for Planning and 
Business Affairs] Pat Keating and 
[Dean of Student Affairs] Mike 
Murphy and I made a tour of the 
fraternities recently, and saw 
many of the improvements that 
Physical Plant has proposed.
According to Martin, a five-toseven year plan is probable to 
make many of the improvements. 
We want to work with the stu
dents and let them see our sug
gestions, and then well see what 
the students want.
YeB, there may be a plan for a 
substantial rate increase, but the 
extra money would go for big im
provements in the houses, con
tinued Martin. Right now, 
though, I dont know what that 
increase might be.
Many fraternity members ex
pressed concern that this type of 
proposal would hurt those houses 
that have always kept their 
houses in good shape. They pro
tested that the rates would be 
raised equally for all the houses 
but the improvements would be 
unevenly distributed.
Senior Depeche Patel of Kappa 
Sigma said, I think we definitely 
have to see something concrete 
come out of it. We would need a 
very detailed list of... how he is
going to be able to make it even 
Sophomore Beta Theta Pj 
brother Andy Helms saidanypl^ 
is going to have to be negotiate,) 
with [the fraternities].... There's 
going to be some heavy adversity  
We will be setting up meetings 
to discuss this with representa. 
tives of the fraternities, and d0. 
ing negotiations with them later 
this month, said Martin. Hopefully, all lease negotiations win 
be done and we will have arrived 
at an agreement by April 30.Former CMU student dies in gulf accident
ARTEAGA, from page 1
Blytheville, Arkansas. It was there that 
he met his wife, Emily Gardner, whom 
he married just hours before he was 
shipped to the Gulf. Gardner, 21, ar
ranged for the marriage, which had been 
planned for May, to be held at the county 
courthouse before Arteagas departure.
Gardner had returned to her home in 
Memphis after the wedding. She in
formed both Simmons and Arteagas fa
ther of her husbands death. The elder 
Arteaga, who was a mining engineer for 
U.S. Steel and later for the United Na
tions, said he believed his son died for 
worthwhile reasons.
A formal retreat ceremony was held 
for Arteaga at Pitt by ROTC. The retreat 
ceremony, in which the flag is lowered, 
usually signifies the end of the day, but 
it is also used to recognize the passing of 
a comrade in arms. Arteagas family, 
which lives in Bolivia, was not present. A 
Bolivian native who spoke three lan
guages, Arteaga considered himself 
completely American, according to 
Simmons. Air Force Colonel Stecklow 
made a few remarks at the ceremony,
It hurts, it burns when people get killed. 
 Clarke Simmons 
______________________________________H&SS, '86
along with the Chaplain and Lt. Colonel 
Robert English of the Army Reserve. 
Stecklow, who did not know Arteaga, 
said that those who did spoke of his love 
for the Air Force and the U.S., and his 
involvement in everything ROTC.
As a student in the Army ROTC,
Simmons tried to improve the visibility 
and respect for ROTC at CMU. He wrote 
a series of articles for The Tartan survey
ing campus attitudes toward war and 
the military. He said the attitude was 
not a good one, and that ROTC was not 
given much in the way of facilities or
recognition. Simmons was the first cadet 
at CMU to wear a uniform on campus 
and suggested that this become a weekly 
ritual.
A few days after learning of Arteagas 
death, Simmons, who is a First Lieu
tenant in the Army Reserve, was called 
to the Gulf. I feel good about it, he said. 
I have a sense of obligation, duty, and a 
desire to contribute to the effort. I really 
believe this is a moral cause were fighting 
for. Obviously everyone wants to come 
back. It hurts, it bums when people get 
killed.
Pitt bans
campus
smoking
SMOKING, from page 1
are paying a lot to live there and 
should be able to smoke if they 
want to, he said.
Keller said he received a note 
from a staff member, saying that 
the new policy will be the event 
that finally prompts him to kick 
the habit, since he doesnt smoke 
at home and can no longer smoke 
at work.
The decision to go smoke-free is 
the result of many meetings and 
discussions on the topic. Groups 
such as the Faculty Senate and 
various levels of administration 
were in on the decision. Keller, 
also the official spokesman on the 
new policy, stresses that every 
attempt was made to consider the 
views and the best interests of the 
entire campus community.
Pitt is promoting its new policy 
as a way to improve the campus 
for its non-smokers and its 
smokers as well. The university 
encourages its smokers to take 
partin smoking cessation classes, 
but recognizes that it is each 
individuals personal choice to 
smoke or not to smoke.
One CMU non-smoker said, We 
dont know how much of a health 
hazard second-hand smoke is, so 
I think its unfair to keep stu
dents from smoking in their 
rooms.
Although the rules have been 
changed, it will take time to see if 
they have a major effect on life at 
Pitt.
CMUs Director of Health and 
Environmental Safety Peter 
Collopy says that Carnegie Mel
lon has no plans to adopt a ban on 
smoking comparable to that of 
the University of Pittsburgh, but 
notes that, in policy, at least, we 
are essentially in the same posi
tion as Pitt is now, and we were 
there first.
As to enforcement, nobody 
knows if the policy can be enforced.
Though CMU Housing has no 
official policy on smoking, ac
cording to Director of Housing 
Anthony Martin, it does comply 
with the City of Pittsburgh ordi
nance that disallows smoking in 
public areas, including lobbies, 
TV, and recreation rooms. With 
the exception of residence halls 
and a few campus buildings, 
Carnegie Mellons buildings are 
already under the same rules as 
those at Pitt.
RESEARCH PAPERS
5Ab7>> pT oSTT,G iITN x URg ,On1Gop,
uIvGI dmpmgTW PTvmf rRpS ER,mjd TI duQIBHWTO 800-351-0222
JU dmgRi6 L.5FH BxA..C 
uI6 IO,S '.6>> pT9 sG,GmIoS a,,R,pmUoG 
55F.. JvmST a3G6 z.>CxwD hT, aUWGgG,6 da 0>>.7 
dO,pTN IG,GmIoS m3mRgmngGx mgg gG3Gg,
8IGG
wKGGoS6
If youre an off-campus student,get the AM Calling Card and your first call is free.
Theres no better time to speak your mind.
Because now when you get your free AT&T Calling Card, youll 
get your first 15-minute call freet
With your AT&T Calling Card, you can call 
from almost anywhere to anywhere. And you 
can keep your caid, even if you move and get 
a new phone number.
Our Calling Card is part of the AT&T
Student Saver Plus program, a whole package of products and services 
designed to make a students budget go farther
So look for AT&T Calling Card applications on campus.
Or caU us at 1800 525-7955, Ext. 655.
And let freedom ring.
AB2T. Helping make college life a little easier.
* A 13.00 value for a coast-to-coast Calling Caid calL Applies to customer-dialed calls made during the AI&T Night/ 
Weekend calling period, 11pm to 8am, Sunday through Thursday and 11pm Friday through 5pm Sunday. You may receive 
more or less calling time depending on where and when you call. Applications must be received by December 31,1991.
AfeT
The right choice.

---------------------------------------------------

dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccx,
Senate, A Phi 0 try to revamp election process
6iVpRaPM iIUN 5 U IgRITKi pUUg U iR aPJ I3xi( BxJU m d)UaU) m RaaRU3UN b6IU U ZIpg U go  5   Zqt xY1 x xxY6 2222222222222222^ U Rg22222222222222222122222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222 / X 1 RSENATE, from page 1
edged problems in informing stu
dents of the validity of petitions; 
however, it denied responsibility 
,r a variety of other problems. 
CIT freshman Adam Barksdale 
was a candidate in the fall elec
tions and was told by a student 
senator that his name would be 
ilaced on the second ballot. 
However, when election day came, 
his name was not on the ballot. I 
didnt find out until I went out to 
vote, said Barksdale, which 
didnt even give me time for a 
write-in campaign.
Barksdale was the only student 
whose petition was invalidated 
that filed a formal complaint, and 
his case, Student Senate was 
at fault, said A Phi O. Senate was
in direct violation of the Student 
Senate Constitution, states the 
letter, ... since the fall petitions 
were never properly validated by 
the Election Board.
Barksdales formal complaint 
protesting the election process 
was voted on at Thursday nights 
A Phi O meeting, which, accord
ing to Barksdale, was an unsat
isfactorily run event in itself.
The prospect of holding another 
election for CIT clearly made the 
members of A Phi O unhappy, 
according to Barksdale. When 
[Election Board Chair] Mike Reed 
brought it up, everyone kind of 
moaned, he said. The petition to 
hold elections again was defeated.
According to A Phi O Member
ship Vice President Ross Comer,
the decision was relatively black 
and white. The question to be 
answered, he said, was, Were 
procedures violated? The answer 
is no.  However, Ross addeds, 
We were sympathetic and we 
went out of our way to contact 
[the students with invalidated 
petitions] and check the petition 
names with the Registrar. Its too 
bad, but what else can you do? 
Barksdale felt differently about 
the way the meeting was run. 
The meeting was generally cha'Otic and not well organized, he 
said, pointing out that members 
consulted a phone list in an effort 
to determine who had paid dues 
and were eligible to vote. To me 
it seemed very easy that they could 
screw up an election, he added.
Fortunately for Barksdale, and 
anyone else in CIT interested in 
becoming a senator, a recent res
ignation has opened up a seat. 
According to Student Senate 
Chair Chris Neighbor, Barksdale 
can fill out a petition for the vacant 
position to take to Student Senate 
for a vote, or take an appeal to 
Associate Dean of Student Affairs 
Anne Witchner, whos in charge 
of [the University Disciplinary 
Committee], where they can 
overturn the election.
Other problems explained by A 
Phi O were: the failure to publi
cize the names of the candidates
 stating it turned over the list of 
the names to The Tartan on time 
and informed Student Senate 
properly; the use of a spring ros
ter to check the names  statinTg 
it double-checked names not on 
the roster with the registrar, a 
procedure beyond the call of duty; 
and one particular case in which 
a students name was omitted  
stating it was never received by 
the Election Board.
The purpose of A Phi Os letter 
to the editor was not to call any
one names or get back at people, 
explained Comer, but to present 
them with the real facts.
Between these last two elec
tions, said Comer, [The Election 
Board]has abad taste inits mouth 
from dealing with Senate. There 
was a lot of discussion about tell
ing Senate we wouldnt be avail
able for elections in the spring. 
But he continued, We decided
that we werent going to solve the 
problems by copping out. We could 
work with them and make it work 
and provide community service, 
which is the goal of A Phi O.
In an effort to prevent future 
problems, Reed and Neighbor are 
workingtogether to clarify current 
election procedure, much of which, 
according to Zapanta, is an un
written process.
According to Neighbor, he and 
Reed are planning to establish 
specific rules delineating that 
this is what is expected for the 
Election Board, and this is what 
Senate is supposed to do  and 
clarifying a time-table as well. 
There are now six open seats in 
Student Senate: one in CIT, two 
in CFA, and three in SUPA.
wQdb djQw mWIGG TU 
UGr NGmg KgmU ,pIOopOIG
The SDC Food Committee met with Roger Heydt and Dennis 
Stanhoff, diningservice operations managers, on February 7 and 
approved a new meal plan structure for next year.
A Super meal plan is a new concept being introduced. A student 
who purchases this 19 or 15 meal plan will have the opportunity to 
use two meals each meal period.
Dominos Delivery is also a new concept. Beginning soon this 
semester, people will be able to call Dominos and buy pizza using 
campus accounts (aka Validine).
SDC told Dining Service that proper communication of all the 
details of all meal plans be explained BEFORE students buy into 
them.
Questions pertaining to SDCs viewpoints should be directed to 
Erick Mizrahi, x8402. Questions pertaining to Dining Service pro
grams should be directed to Roger Heydt, x2127.
smgKS DmvGI rRgg ,KGmy
On Monday, February 11,1991, the Toward Tomorrows World 
1991 Discussion Series entitled Exploring Socially Conscious Ca
reer Decision Making will begin with consumer advocate Ralph 
Nader.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Since he took on the Detroit automobile industry as a young, 
unknown attorney with his book Unsafe at Any Speed: The Designed-in Dangers of the American Automobile in 1965, Nader has 
become known as the founder of the consumer rights movement in 
America. His name is synonymous with the seat belt in cars and 
with public safety issues in general.
The topic of Naders discussion here at CMU will be Exploring 
Your Options Outside the Corporate World. The discussion will 
take place at 7:30 pm in the Skibo Ballroom and is underwritten by 
the Political Speakers Forum.
The Toward Tomorrows World Coalition, which designed the 
lecture series, includes the Career Center, the Carnegie Mellon 
Student Pugwash, the School of Urban and Public Affairs Career 
Services, and the Alumni Relations Office.
OSg 8TOUvmpRTU WR3G, WImUp 
pT djt dSRgvIGU, woSTTg
The Buhl Foundation has awarded Carnegie Mellon Universitys 
Childrens School a $23,000 grant to supplement funding for the 
Developmental Approaches in Science and Health (DASH) project. 
The grant will help support the development of educational mate
rials for parents of elementary school students across the nation.
Many parents let wonderful moments... slide by because they do 
not realize the time is right to teach a particular concept, said Ann
Baldwin Taylor, director of the Childrens School. We need to let 
parents know how to recognize these moments and to take advan
tage of them when they occur.
Four pilot newsletters developed by the Childrens School were 
distributed to schools in seven states. Feedback from the schools 
helped the Childrens School to further develop these materials.
The Buhl grant will fund the development of eight more newslet
ters over the next two years, as well as various related family 
support materials.
djt IGofogRUW ,pmIp, Tii nRW
Carnegie Mellon recycled approximately 47 tons of paper and 
corrugated cardboard, 21 tons of glass, and 3 tons of aluminum 
during 1990. Because of the relative newness of the program, some 
buildings are still only partially serviced by Carnegie Mellon Re
cycling. Soon, new 32-gallon recycling containers will be in place for 
full service in more campus buildings, including Hunt Library, the 
College of Fine Arts building, Skibo, and the gymnasium.
Independent programs are operating already in several campus 
buildings, including Warner, Wean, and Porter Halls, UCC, and 
Publications and Printing. By July, the Carnegie Mellon recycling 
program will be operating at full service.
For more information, or for answers to questions, call Barbara 
Kviz, CMU recycling coordinator at x7858, or send email to 
recycling@andrew.
Join the AB Exec Board ... 
Demonstrate your skills ..
Accepting Applications For:
Lectures Chair Concerts Chair Films Chairs 
Special Events Chair Coffeehouse Chair
If you think you've got the initiative, and you're planning 
on being a student for the 1991-92 school year, then pick 
up an application at the Skibo information desk.
Applications due 5pm 2/23/91 Interviews start 2/28/91

---------------------------------------------------

Sdmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccx
Board hikes tuition 8.9%
TUITION, from page 1
in U.S. News and World Reports an
nual ranking of American colleges and 
universities. CMU ranked 23 in tuition 
among those schools, and Elliott pre
dicts that the new tuition hike will 
leave CMUs tuition in the bottom 
quarter of the tuition rankings  a 
final determination wont be possible 
until later this year when other insti
tutions announce their tuition plans.
One of the conditions the committee 
faced when recommending the tuition 
hike was CMUs aid-blind admissions 
policy, where the students ability to 
pay tuition is not considered in the 
admissions process. Coupled with Fi
nancial Aids policy of completely 
meeting the assessed need of every 
admitted student, these factors in
crease the demand for tuition income.
Much ofthe increased tuition revenue 
is earmarked to go directly to student 
financial aid. According to the
committees report, maintaining CMUs 
aid-blind admissions policy requires 
money to fund additional financial aid 
support from the universitys education 
and general operating budget.
More CMU money is required now 
because federal and state support for 
students has not kept lip with inflation.
Admittedly, raising tuition raises the 
total financial aid needed by students.
There are some people who will need 
money who didnt need money before, 
Elliott says. However, enough students 
can afford to pay full tuition to compen
sate for the increase in need, and tuition 
income will increase, Elliott said.
Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy served on the tuition commit
tee, and he feels that the hike is needed 
to support new programs throughout the 
university. I hope some of this money 
comes to the new programs, he said.
Three parents of current CMU stu
dents served on the committee as well,
and Elliott valued their input. Al
though parents were concerned about 
an excessive hike, Elliott said they 
understood the situation. Nobody as
sumed tuition would be the same two 
years in a row, he said.
Former CMU Student Body Presi
dent Mark Mittlehauser also served 
on the committee. He recalls that 
continuedfull-need-based financial aid 
planning was a central issue of the 
committee meetings. My primary 
concern was that the level of financial 
aid remain consistent, he said.
Policy for past tuition raises under 
the Cyert administration was to an
nounce hikes followingthe July Board 
of Trustees meeting; however, because 
the incoming Mehrabian administra
tion needed time to prepare a budget, 
the decision was postponed until the 
December meeting.
This years tuition is $14,000, a 
$1,000 raise from last year.
Drug deal involves 
CMU students
DRUGS, from page 1
pering with records or identification. 
Feissel, who does not live in the house, 
was charged with two drug violations.
Two additional occupants of the house, 
Tony Stabile and Dominick Irace turned 
themselves in the following day and re
ceived three counts of drug violations 
and one count of criminal conspiracy.
The date of the arrest was May 28 
rather than May 24 as stated in the 
February 4 issue of the Tartan. The in. 
vestigation began on Febraury 25 when 
Denver police were notified by a Denver 
postal worker of a suspicious pack 
mailed to Pittsburgh. They relayed that 
information to the Pittsburgh police, who 
followed up on the incident.
Purcell takes leave
PURCELL, from page 1
mediately.
Vice President for University Rela
tions Don Hale declined comment. I 
really dont know anything about the 
situation, he said.
The memo also states that the depart
ment is looking for a replacement for
the duration of his leave.
[Purcell] requested that his classes be 
cancelled.... This whole incident was 
sudden, said Thomas.
Jeff Muller, a senior English major 
said, I really dont know anything about 
it. I know that all of [Purcells] students 
are behind him, though.
Crime and Incident Report
2/1 VANDALISM, 9:38 am. A 
university employee called Cam' pus Police and said that someone 
had taken the windshield wipers 
; off the repair centers Cushman. 
The computer center van has also 
been scratched along the drivers 
side, possibly some time ago.
2/1 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 11:37 pm. Campus Police 
received a complaint about a loud 
beer party taking place in Resnik 
Hall. When officers responded, 
they found a large group of people 
outside two suites. No one would 
say who was responsible for the 
party. Police asked the people to 
leave, and everyone cooperated. 
After the crowd was gone, a half! keg of beer was found in one of the 
suites. It was taken to the Baker 
Hall 155 for safekeeping. Upon
their exit, police encountered two 
students carrying a quarter-keg 
of beer. They were stopped, and 
one student was issued an inter
nal citation for underage posses
sion of alcohol.
2/2- VANDALISM, 8:40 am. 
The Resnik Hall desk manager 
reported that unknown person or 
persons had ripped the Griffin 
card reader off the wall outside 
the Resnik lobby. Officers found 
the card reader gone, and the 
wiring exposed. The campus 
phone across the hall was also 
discovered damaged, with the cord 
slashed and the receiver missing.
2/3 THEFT, 8:34 pm. A 
MorePizza driver notified Cam
pus Police that the phone from 
Donner Desk was missing. Cam
pus Police contacted the desk at
tendant, who said the phone was 
missing when he came on shift. 
The previous attendant also said 
that the phone was never there. 
Police discovered that the desk 
did not have an attendant from 8 
pm the previous evening until 8 
am that morning.
2/3 THEFT, 9:54 pm. Campus 
Police received a report that a 
wallet, house key, and several 
office keys were removed from a 
pickup truck. The items were lo
cated in the vehicles glove com
partment. There was no sign of 
forced entry into the truck. The 
complainant said that he had 
locked the truck, and upon re
turning had found the items gone.
2/5 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS, 
7:58 pm. A suspicious person was 
spotted on the D-level of
...from BOP to 
BACH SALE...
CDS/CASSETTES
MAJOR LABELS 
TOP ARTISTS
AFFORDABLE PRICES 
Something for Everyone
Pop, Rock, Folk, Jazz and Classics
On Sale for Limited Time 
Shop Early for Best Selection
Feb. 11 thru Feb. 16
Bookstore 
Baker Hall
Hamerschlag Hall. Campus Po
lice were notified, and when the 
complainant spoke to the suspect, 
he said he was just looking 
around. Later, another call re
ported several suspicious persons 
on Hamerschlags B-level, and 
police responded. The three were 
stopped and questioned, and they 
replied that they were looking for 
a Coke machine. None of the in
dividuals had ID on them, and so 
they were taken to the police of
fice for identification. They were 
found to be juveniles, and re
leased. Police advised them not to 
return to the CMU campus.
2/5 TRESPASS, 6:38 pm. 
Campus Police were notified that 
a man was seen entering the 
womens lounge on Mellon Insti
tute third floor. When police re
sponded, they found him exiting 
Mellon Institute, and asked him 
for identification. He replied that 
his wallet had been stolen, and he 
had none. He was transported to 
the police office for identification. 
After he was identified, police told 
him that if he returned to cam
pus, except on official business, 
he would be arrested. The sus
pect was then released.
2/5 EXCESSIVE NOISE, 6:06 
am. A loud hammering noise was 
reported coming from Forbes 
Gallery around 1:06 am. After 
being asked, the students agreed 
to stop until later. CMU Police 
left the scene.
At 6 am, Campus Police received 
a second complaint. In response 
to the second complaint, the stu
dents said that they had to get
their works up this morning. Police advised them that it was too 
early for that amount of noise. 
They were told that any more 
noise would result in a citation.
2/7 THEFT, 11 am. A student 
reported the theft of a brand new 
pair of Reebok tennis shoes. The 
shoes were placed next to his 
dresser in an open area. The vic
tim also reported the theft of his 
Walkman at an earlier date.
2/8 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 2:14 am. A student was 
found swinging on the flag pole 
outside Hamburg Hall. He then 
ran away from Police up Forbes 
Avenue into the Morewood park
ing lot. The man was issued an 
internal citation.
Compiled by 
DAVID LADEK
umygmUv x MRpp x djt x dmIgTr x QOOG,UG8IGG QGgR3GIf 'B6>> jRU6
Pizza Hot Line
621-4490
Hours:
jTU6xPSOI,6
8IR6
wmp6
wOU6
559>> m6N6x59>> m6N6 
559>> m6N6x.9>> m6N6 
B9>> K6N6x.9>> m6N6 
B9>> K6N6x.9>> m6N6
Quality Pizza On a Students Budget
lmUv PT,,Gv 5>>? sGmg dSGG,G 8IG,S QTOWS
10 cut Lg. $4.71 + tax 
.47 toppings
6 cut Sm. $3.30 + tax 
.37 toppings
PTKKRUW,9
MGKKGITURb jO,SITTNb wmO,mWGb lmNb uURTUb kIGGU MGKKGIb
lTp MGKKGI sRUW,b gmoy ugR3Gb dmKRoTggmb wmgmNRb MRUGmKKgG
5.cSTgG
lTmWRG, xJpmgRmU'560A'F6F>
jGmpnmgg'560A'F6F>
dSGG,G wpGmy'.6F7'F6
MGK,R x QRGp MGK,R x jTOUpmRU QGr x dSGIIf 
.. T&6 dmIpTU x '6B

---------------------------------------------------

HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30 am - 
5 pm. For after hours emergencies when 
the office is closed, call the center.
An answering service operator will reach a 
counselor on call.
24-hour telephone counseling, crisis 
intervention, and supportive listening.
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline. 5-9 pm.
Counseling and Student Development Center 
a Division of Student Affairs
Health Policy and 
Administration
PrT UGr WImvOmpG KITWImN, RU MGUU wpmpG$, dTggGWG Ti 
lGmgpS mUv lONmU QG3GgTKNGUp9
Master of Health Administration
a KITiG,,RTUmgb prTxfGmI KITWImN KIGKmIRUW ,pOvGUp, iTI NmUmWGNGUp KT,RpRTU, RU 
pSG iOgg oTUpRUOON Ti SGmgpS ,GI3RoG, ,GppRUW,6 8Oggf mooIGvRpGv nf pSG aooIGvRpRUW 
dTNNR,,RTU TU evOompRTU iTI lGmgpS wGI3RoG, avNRUR,pImpRTU6
Ph.D. in Health Policy and Administration
a KITWImN iToO,RUW TU SGmgpS ,GI3RoG, IG,GmIoSb TiiGIRUW RU,pIOopRTU RU pSG SGmgpS 
,GI3RoG, ,f,pGNb SGmgpS mUv RggUG,,b SGmgpS KTgRofb mUv SGmgpS ,GI3RoG, 
mvNRUR,pImpRTU6 8RUmUoRmg mRv m3mRgmngG6
8TI NTIG RUiTINmpRTU mUv mKKgRompRTU iTIN,b rIRpG TI omgg9
kImvOmpG MITWImN, 
lGmgpS MTgRof mUv avNRUR,pImpRTU 
PSG MGUU,fg3mURm wpmpG tUR3GI,Rpf 
557 lGUvGI,TU ORgvRUW 
tUR3GI,Rpf MmIyb Ma 5CA>.
LA5BH ACFx.A70
MGUU wpmpG R, mU miiRINmpR3G mopRTUb GOmg TKKTIpOURpf OUR3GI,Rpf6
THIISJUJH
CMU Counseling and 
Student Development 
Center 
268-2922
CONTACT Pittsburgh 
782-4023
Drug Connection
Its Mere! 
CdeSrate Tradition 
with a BaCfour Class Ring!
Price increase on all 
rings as of 3/1/91
Order yours at The Carnegie Shoppe, or from the representative on Monday, 
February 25 or Tuesday February 26.
Representative locations:
Monday, Feb. 25:10:00 - 4:00 Baker HallTuesday, Feb. 26:10:00 - 4:00 
The Carnegie Shoppe
x=y x<yx>yja,x /xl/(x) log(x) 
Plea PsD xhjj Jx (x) ln(x) 
gxH xi xlnx 5[x iin(x) sinh(x) Sj7lxl|^a|aC>? cos(x) cosh(x)
Now you can afford to dream in color.
If you thought that finding a color Macintosh 
system you could afford was just a dream, then the 
nev^ affordable Macintosh LC is a dream come true.
The Macintosh LC is rich in color. Unlike many 
computers that can display only 16 colors at once, the 
Macintosh LC expands your palette to 256 colors. It 
also comes with a microphone and new sound-input 
technology that lets you personalize your work by 
adding voice or other sounds.
like every Macintosh 
computer, the LC is easy to 
set up and easy to master.
And it runs thousands of 
available applications that 
all work in the same, 
consistent way-so once
Apple introduces the Macintosh LC.
 8RgG evRp JUKOp DTpGnTTy jmURKOgmpG kImKS MIGi,
in^ hmKgmoG PImU,iTIN, IEk
>r Ple [sin(f) + l] + yp, i][S,v][-sin(i)+ 5]
Of = Fupon I Simplify]
? upon I Simplify! transform 
[ e4mNKgG,
'iN y+4y)i(0)
o -s-j*2y(j-uo)+s2 
o -y(i,o)-sy(o,o)+ii'
s.>+sJy+BY
youve learned one program, youre well on your way 
to learning them all. The Macintosh LC even lets you 
share information with someone who uses a different 
type of computer-thanks to the versatile Apple 
SuperDrive which can read from and write to 
Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple II floppy disks.
Take a look at the Macintosh LC and see what it 
gives you. Then pinch yourself.
Its better than a dream-its a 
Macintosh.
For more information visit
the Carnegie 
Mellon Computer 
Store
or call 268-2636 
*
The power to be your best!
01990 Appio Computer. Inc. Appio, th Appio logo. and Macintosh aro reglstered trademarks ol Apple Computer. Inc. SuperOrivo and "Tho power to bc your bcsf are tradomarks ot Appio Computer. Ine. 
__________________MS-DOS la a foglstered trademark ol Micro5011 Corporation. OS/2 Is a reqistered trademark ol International Business Machines Corporation.------- ----

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Adhere to CMU smoking policy
In a university community 
where smokers and non-smokers 
must live and work together, 
problems sometimes occur.
The University of Pittsburgh, 
prompted by conflicts between the 
two groups, recently declared its 
campus smoke-free, with smoking 
prohibited everywhere except in 
private offices and in designated 
housing areas.
Pitts new policy is too harsh. It 
eliminates troubles for nonsmokers, but imposes them on 
smokers, who have rights too.
Dont let it happen here. Smok
ers and non-smokers need to re
spect the rules, and each other.
Although CMUs Health and 
Environmental Safety Depart
ment says that CMU will not adopt 
a policy similar to Pitts, increased 
lack of cooperation on the part of 
smokers and non-smokers with 
CMUs current policy may even
tually compel the University to 
tighten its policy.
Right now, CMU complies, in 
theory that is, with the City of 
Pittsburgh ordinance. Smoking is 
prohibited everywhere except in 
designated areas in academic and 
administrative buildings and 
dining areas, and private rooms 
and offices. In practice, however, 
the limits are being stretched.
Theres nothing wrong with the 
current policy on smoking. Why 
press your luck? Theres plenty of 
latitude on each side of the policy 
for both smokers and non-smok
ers to enjoy their freedoms.
Compliance is the key. Coop
eration and consideration between
Raise tuition, keep promises
None of us are thrilled to be 
digging up an extra $1,250 out of 
our pocketspockets that in some 
cases are already pretty empty  
to accommodate the 1991-92 un
dergraduate tuition hike.
But before we complain about 
spending more money, lets take a 
look at what well get in return.
If the administration does what 
it promises to do with the money
 and if CMU students do indeed 
get more bang for their buck  
then the increase is a good idea.
- Supporting CMUs aid-blind ad
missions policy (admitting stu
dents regardless of financial need) 
is one of the major reasons behind 
the raise. More and more students 
are requiring financial aid; to keep 
the level of aid where it is now, 
students who can pay more must.
Faculty salaries and general 
services also necessitate the raise.
Above all, its unrealistic to ex
pect any school to increase what it 
offers  the quality of education 
and the quality of student life  
without increasing what it takes 
in. Without more money, its im
possible for CMU to keep- pace 
with schools of its caliber.
And none of us want Carnegie
Mellon to fall behind. If an 8.9 
percent increase is what it takes 
to maintain CMUs status as a 
first-rate private university, then 
we support the tuition hike.
But only if the administration 
stands behind its word.
When tuition was raised to 
$14,000 for this year, a $1,000 
increase from last year, students 
expected to get their moneys 
worth. But when the Modern 
Languages Department cancelled 
six courses and cited budgetary 
constraints as the main reason, at 
least 92 students were directly 
affected, and the entire campus 
was left doubting the sincerity of 
the administrations intentions to 
provide top-rate education and go 
forward with new programs.
A faltering of the Universitys 
aid-blind admissions policy or a 
decrease in the quality of educa
tion would constitute a serious 
breach of trust between the ad
ministration and the student body.
So next year, when this latest 
tuition hike goes into effect, well 
be keeping our eyes and ears open. 
If students pocketbooks are an 
extra $1,250 lighter, they deserve 
what theyve been promised.
Effects of war hit CMU campus
First Lieutenant Jorge Arteaga 
is described as a patriotic man, 
proud to serve in the United States
 Air Force. An AFROTC alumnus 
who attended CMU for three 
years, Arteaga was committed to 
his goal of becoming a pilot.
Arteaga, 26, died in the B-52 
bomber disaster last weekend. His 
death is a sad event for the entire 
CMU community, as well as for 
Pitt, where Arteaga received a 
degree in computer science.
Although his death is tragic, its
somewhat reassuring to know that 
Arteaga died doing what he loved 
 flying planes and serving his 
country.
It hurts, it burns when someone 
gets killed, said Clarke Simmons 
(H&SS, 86), Arteagas former 
roommate and friend. We extend 
our sympathy to his friends, fam
ily, and colleagues.
And although we are proud to 
honor a former student and his 
dedication, we sincerely hope it is 
a tribute we must only pay once.
*0 ?Vsmoker and non-smoker are nec
essary to assure the successful 
implementation of this policy, 
states the Student Handbook in 
its definition of compliance.
So cooperate. Anything less 
could mean a stricter policy later 
on. Smokers and non-smokers 
need to abide by these rules now 
so that they wont have ones they 
like a lot less in the future.
In addition to enforcing the 
policy on smoking, CMU is also 
committed to maintaining a 
healthy and safe environment for 
its students, faculty, staff and 
visitors, and acknowledges that 
tobacco smoke, whether inhaled 
directly by a smoker or through 
second-hand smoke, is dangerous.
If this attitude is sincere, then 
CMU must initiate a plan to help 
smokers quit that is just as firm 
as its commitment to a healthy 
and safe environment. Although 
periodic sessions and counseling 
are available, such measures are 
small-scale and poorly publicized.
Combining the resources of the 
Counseling Center, the Housing 
Office, and the Student Health 
Services to instigate a highlypublicized, campus-wide cam
paign to help smokers kick the 
habit would be a significant im
provement over the current half
hearted efforts.
Nevertheless, no matter how 
successful a stop-smoking cam
paign is, not everyone is going to 
quit. Pitt smokers and nonsmokers werent able to compro
mise. Respect each others rights 
before theyre taken away.
Escort needs serious overhaul
Editor:
The CMU shuttle 
service began many 
years ago as an exten
sion of CMU Housing 
to provide transportao n
Lrtler la the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
tion to off-campus residents in CMU 
Housing. Since then, it has become a 
necessary mode of transportation to 
members of the CMU community living 
along the shuttle routes, or for people 
who need a ride to Oakland/Shadyside to 
shop, etc. Clearly, in my opinion, the 
shuttle is not looked upon by the major
ity of campus as a function of Housing. 
Proof: When Housing eliminated several 
leases in Shadyside buildings last year, 
they correspondingly proposed eliminat
ing the B shuttle. This met with obvi
ous opposition to the ridiculous pro
posal.
I believe it is time for another depart
mentwhich one, I do not knowto take 
it over completely for several reasons:
The Housing Office does not have 
adequate money to replace the outdated 
equipment currently in use. Any money 
put toward the shuttle would benefit all 
of the campus anyway, and Housing stu
dents shouldnt have to pay the brunt of 
it in the form of higher room rates.
The shuttle should be a campus ser
vice, not a Housing service. This is why 
there is no Squirrel Hill shuttle  there 
is no off-campus CMU housing there. 
However, it is clear to me that many 
people would benefit from regular runs 
of the shuttle to Squirrel Hill. Many 
students who now rent apartments there 
drive to school, leaving their cars in 
relatively unsafe places like Schenley 
Park. We need a way for not only resi
dents, but everybody to get to Squirrel 
Hill regularly to shop, see a movie, etc.
The walk on a nice day isnt bad, but 
what about when the weather is poor?
The buses. They are shot. Go to other 
universities and you will find nice, luxury 
shuttles with neat things like air condi
tioning and seats that arent tom to 
shreds. Many airport shuttle services 
have these types of vans as well. Sure, 
they cost money, but many schools have 
a tuition thats much lower than ours, 
but better service. We deserve better.
I am not a regular rider of the shuttle, 
so if Im forgetting something or Im 
mistaken, please post your opinion to the 
bboard assocs.sdc.housing. Your opin
ion is very important to us at SDC. Hope
fully, someone in Warner Hall (Perhaps 
Dean of Student Affairs Michael Murphy) 
Will do something to correct this situation.
Tony Lalli
SDC Properties Chair
Student opinions need to come first
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
As you most likely 
know, I have been cut 
from the Forum staff 
as a columnist for rea
sons of lack of space 
and that the Forum section had become 
too large, therefore some writers had 
to be let go.
Now, I feel that it is not my place to 
complain about my own elimination from 
the section and I feel uneasy that this 
letter might seem to be a little selfserving, but I would like to call your 
attention to a dangerous trend that The 
Tartan is setting by limiting the scope of 
the Forum section.
I just finished looking at Tartan issues 
from last semester and I was pleased at 
what I found in the Forum section. In 
most of them, there were at least five 
columns written by students.
Now, I take a disparaging look at 
todays issue [2/4/91]. In it are just, two 
student-written columns plus two na
tionally syndicated columns that have 
(to my knowledge) never appeared in 
this paper before this semester  at 
least, not while Ive been a student at 
this university.
Why is The Tartan spending money to 
carry national columns when there is a
very broad spectrum of opinion on this 
campus? The Tartan proclaims itself 
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906.
If it is the students newspaper, why is 
money  part of which comes from our 
Activities Feebeing spent on reducing 
space for student writers?
Its not like we cant get access to na
tionally syndicated columns  even for 
freewithout The Tartan printing them. 
George F. Wills column appears weekly 
in Time magazine, a publication that 
many on the CMU campus subscribe to 
and that Hunt Library makes available 
to all students.
Other national columns can be found 
in The New York Times, USA Today, The 
Wall Street Journal, the Chicago Tri
bune, the Washington Post, the Los An
geles Times, The Pittsburgh Press, the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, and Newsweek, 
just to name a few. All of these are 
available for free, or at reduced cost, to 
all students on this campus.
The money The Tartan spends on car
rying syndicated columnists could be 
better spent on adding a page or two to 
the Forum section so that as many stu
dents as possible can express their 
opinions.
Journalistic effort on the part of the
students is what won The Tartan all of 
its past awards, not purchasing text and 
pasting it into the paper.
This campus needs to have an arena 
dedicated to the expression of students 
opinions taken from different schools of 
thought. This arena is the Forum sec
tion. I believe it to be the most important 
section of the paper for the simple reason 
that it is where the students (and other 
members of the campus population) are 
heard.
Once again, The Tartan is a student 
newspaper. Its here for.us and our ideas, 
not for a national audience and theirs. I 
think that The Tartans policyto para
phrase Abraham Lincoln  should be 
that journalism of the students, for the 
students, and by the students shall not 
disappear from this university.
Right now, student journalism in the 
form of personal expression and point/ 
counterpoint over local, national, and 
world issues is on its way out. What are 
you going to do about it?
Allan Bourdius 
Sophomore, H&SS
Editors note: The Tartan staffs 12 
student columnists and runs an average 
of five per week.
Piano minor notes depts lack of respect
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I am a piano minor 
studying with Natasha 
Snitkovsky under 57- 
108, studio for non
majors. Last year, the 
then existing catch-as-catch-can signout system for the two non-major practice 
rooms was revamped and a fairer, more 
efficient system was enacted. The new 
system, under which students may sign 
up for one hour per day, three days a week, 
one week at a time, seems fair to all and 
should not pose a problem for many. What 
I have witnessed since the system was put 
into effect, however, has been a cause of 
great distress to me and many other non
majors requiring weekly practice time.
On Monday morning of each week, that 
weeks signout sheets for both rooms are 
placed in the Music Extension Office on 
the CFAmezzanine. Last semester, I would 
go to sign up for the week on Monday 
mornings at about 10 am, expecting to
beat the rush and get my choice of times 
throughout the week. However, nearly 
every week for the majority ofthe semester 
I would find large chunks of times, often 
ranging from 9 am to 2 pm, signed out by 
a Ms. Sarah Griffith. I have even found my 
name crossed out and placed at a different 
time (one during which I happened to 
have class) when I returned to the office to 
see why I could not gain access to the room 
I had signed out. The time she signed out 
was reserved for teaching as she indicated 
next to her name and the arrows extend
ing down the page filling up to six hours 
per day for two days per week on some 
occasions.
This may seem inconsequential at first, 
being that we are provided with eight 
hours per day to choose from. But may I 
remind you that I attend classes and my 
time is limited when it comes to available 
time to practice. This is not to say that out 
of the forty hours per week available I 
cannot find time to practice. I am saying
that with other students having signed 
out times each day, sometimes signing the 
only hour or two I have free on a given day, 
it becomes next to impossible to find a time 
during which I do not have class and that 
is not taken by either a student, a teacher, 
or the department. When space is this 
limited, i.e. two rooms for the entire body 
of non-majors (the number of which I am 
unsure), such monopolization on the Mu
sic Departments part becomes difficult to 
work around.
As I indicated earlier, this occurred 
mainly last semester. What caused me to 
become so enraged that I would take the 
time and energy to write a letter (some
thing I seldom if ever do) was a similar 
situation I experienced yesterday when I 
went to sign up for this weeks times. I 
found both rooms occupied by Music De
partment until 12 pm. I understand that 
auditions for prospective students were 
being held during that time but what I fail 
Please see PIANO, page 10

---------------------------------------------------

dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccxc
THE TARTAN
Camegle Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief...........Katie Culbertson
Managing Editor ....Nicole Brockmann 
Business Manager.......Beth A. Moses
DGr, evRpTI...........................David Ladek
8TION evRpTI.........Daniel de Grandpre
wKTIp, evRpTI............................Alim Ray
8GmpOIG, evRpTI......................A.J. Durazzi
QR3GI,RTU, evRpTI..........Stephen Glicker
dmgGUvmI evRpTI ...Samantha Kossman
jmWm&RUG evRpTI..................Alison Green
QT,,RGI hRpGImIf evRpTI.....Jack Sllbert
QT,,RGI QG,RWU evRpTI ....Chris Shields
aIp evRpTI.....................................John Un
MSTpT evRpTI....................Jason Dlgman
QmIyITTN jmUmWGI.....Jennifer Adams
MITvOopRTU jmUmWGI6666 Jennifer Forbes
dTKf jmUmWGI.....................Heidi Hoover
a,,p6 DGr, evRpTI........Laurie Wilkison
a,,p6 8TION evRpTI6666Mary K. Rodgers 
a,,p6 wKTIp, evRpTI ...Jason McDonald
a,,p6 8GmpOIG, evRpTI,......Trupti Patel
Megan Dietz 
a,,p6 QR3GI,RTU, evRpTI,6666Terri Kasch 
Mami Borek
a,,p6 jmWm&RUG evRpTI ..Azleena Salleh
dTUpIRnOpRUW evRpTI, 
Susan Abrams, Kevin Barney, Dawn 
Brosonski, William Burky, Grant 
Carmichael, Frank DIVito, Tad 
Dockstader, James B. Endres (Tokyo), 
Dustin Frazier, D.A. Henderson, Jen
nifer Kerstein, Dexter T. Kobayashi, 
Farron W. Levy, Jonathan Levy, Thomas 
Nichols, Don Pickett, Howdy Pierce, 
Michael T. Rose, William C. Sabram, 
Ignatius Sasmita, Rhonda Struminger
wGURTI wpmii 
Daniel Holland, Waseem Hussain, Javier 
Grillo-Marxuach, Rich Robinson, Mike 
Shapiro, Randy Udavcak
wpmiirIRpGI, 
Laura Adams, Matt Adler, Suzanne 
Bartlett, Russ Bedel, T.S. Blass, Allan 
Bourdius, Alison Carter, Michael 
Colaianne, Andrew Cosentino, Lori 
Demeter, Jill Denevisch, Dan Ferrell, 
Dan Gallagher, Natalie Gesmond, 
Francis M. Goldsberry, Megan Greig, 
Judy Grossman, Sarah Hamilton, Col
leen Kane, Geetu Khanduja, Georgina 
Koon, Richard Kwiatkowski, Ed Lee, 
Karen Logliscl, Dave Martin, Chin Oh, 
Shizuka Otake, Mark A. Roces, Charles 
Sabatos, Doug Scott, Lui Sieh, Alan 
Sloan, Richard Song, Zachary Smith 
Jason Lee Smith, Kelly Sterling, Tina 
Urso, Heather Walker, A. Franklin 
Wheeler, Robert Wyner
aIp
Sunita Cherian, Brandon Chin, Eric 
Davis, Ken Flickstein, Damien Miller, 
Jen Nelson, Chin Oh, Jeff Oplinger, Dave 
Pagani, Pauletta Pan, Naomi Pearson, 
Jason Peltz, Kate Rollenhagen, Cesar 
Sanchez
dTNRo,
Gregg Baimel, Andl riggs, Flint 
Crumpacher, Eric Davis, Danny Fahs, 
Chris Fria, Dan Gallagher, Dave Kapla, 
Andre Khromov, Doug Lamperski, Neil 
McCarthy, Craig Mrusek, Paul Reed, 
RJ. Runas, Charles Sabatos, Mike 
Shapiro, Jack Silbert, Clifford Snider, 
Ray Strobel, K. Michael Thomas, Nick 
Wardigo
MSTpTWImKSfQmIyITTN 
Jason Barshay, Jae Chang, David 
Docktor, Dan Frey, Josh Freeman, 
Michael Fuson, Vivek Gupta, Hillary 
Kahn, Stephen Kang, Augustine Kuo, 
Abe Levine, Sam Mastromatteo, Jes
sica Miller, Guy Paquette, Pauletta Pan, 
Klshor K. Rao, Gwokang Yang
MITvOopRTUhmfTOp 
Rachel Bourn, Anne Campbell, 
Stephanie Horwitz, Melissa Kingman, 
Manish Modh, Pankaj S. Mody, Rick 
Quinn, Kishor K. Rao, Derek Rubinoff
dTKf
Susan Baker, Catherine Bellanca, 
Heather Broud, Lenna Kydes, Daniel 
Martinez, Erika Olson, Christine RahimiAssa, Chanda Sanders
PSG PmIpmU R, pSG ,pOvGUp UGr,KmKGI Ti dmIUGWRG 
jGggTU tUR3GI,Rpf6 Jp R, m rGGygf UGr,KmKGI KOpV 
gR,SGv nf ,pOvGUp, vOIRUW pSG imgg mUv ,KIRUW 
,GNG,pGI,b mp UT oT,p pT NGNnGI, Ti pSG tUR3GI_
,Rpf oTNNOURpf6 Jp R, KIRUpGv nf cG,pGIU MGUU,fg_
3mURm MIRUpRUWb JUo6 wOn,oIRKpRTU, mIG m3mRgmngG 
iTI pSG ,GNG,pGI TI momvGNRo fGmI6 PSG GvRpTIR_
mg, mKKGmIRUW mp pSG nGWRUURUW Ti pSG TKRURTU  
,GopRTU mIG pSG TiiRoRmg TKRURTU Ti PSG PmIpmU 
GvRpTIRmg nTmIv6 dTgONU, mIG pSG TKRURTU, Ti RU_
vR3RvOmg mOpSTI,6 hGppGI, pT pSG evRpTI mIG TKRU_
RTU, Ti mOpSTI, rST mIG O,Omggfb nOp UTp UGoG,_
,mIRgfb NGNnGI, Ti pSG tUR3GI,Rpf oTNNOURpf6 a 
gGppGI RUpGUvGv iTI KOngRompRTU NO,p nG ,RWUGv 
mUv RUogOvG pSG rIRpGI$, mvvIG,, mUv KSTUG$ 
UONnGI iTI 3GIRiRompRTU6 DmNG, rRgg nG rRpSSGgv < 
OKTU IGOG,p6 PSG PmIpmU IG,GI3G, pSG IRWSp pT 
oTUvGU,G TI IG1Gop mUf gGppGI TI oTgONU6 dTKfxIRWSp |5005 nf PSG PmIpmU6 PSG PmIpmU GvRpTIRmg6 
nTmIv IG,GI3G, pSG IRWSp pT rRpSSTgv iITN KOngRomx 
pRTU mUf oTKf Rp vGGN, OUiRp iTI KOngRompRTU6
uiiRoG9 wKRnT 7> LB5.H .CAx.555
jmRgRUW mvvIG,,9 PSG PmIpmUT4 5dmNGWRG jGggTU
tUR3GI,RpfMRpp,nOIWSb Ma 57.5FxFA0>
8OUvGv RU KmIp nf pSG aopR3RpRG, 8GG6
agg IRWSp, IG,GI3Gv6
tnImRf Ti dTUWIG,, JwwD z9 >A0>xF5>6
A Phi 0 sounds off on recent criticisms
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
We, the brothers of 
Alpha Phi Omega,
Kappa Chapter, would 
like to respond to the 
statements concerning 
the recent Student Senate elections that 
were published in The Tartan on February 
4 1991. We believe many of the negative 
statements were inaccurate and wish to 
clear up as much confusion as possible.
Alpha Phi Omega has been serving as 
the Election Board for Student Senate 
elections for more than 40 years. We began 
serving in this capacity in order to settle 
controversy surrounding the elections. Be
cause Alpha Phi Omega is not funded by 
Student Senate, we can provide unbiased 
direction to the election process. Until the 
most recent elections, few problems with 
the process have occurred.
We acknowledge that some of the confu
sion surrounding the past election can be 
directly attributed to Alpha Phi Omega:
The polling place did open later than
had been advertised. This was due to ad
verse weather conditions and a manpower 
shortage on our part.
There were difficulties that occurred in 
notifying students of the validity or in
validity of their petitions. While the Stu
dent Senate Constitution does not require 
any notification to be given to potential 
' candidates, it is the unwritten policy of the 
Election Board to try to contact these in
dividuals.
This was done to the greatest extent 
possible in this past election. Only in one 
instance was a message to a potential 
candidate not left with a roommate; in this 
particular case, it was decided that such 
action was improper.
However, other problems which occurred 
were incorrectly attributed to Alpha Phi 
Omega as the Election Board:
 One candidate who was accepted in the 
invalidated fall election was told by a 
member of Student Senate that his name 
would be carried over onto the new ballot. 
Such action would be in direct violation of
the Student Senate Constitution, Article 
10, Section 8(b)(3), since the fall petitions 
were never properly validated by the Elec
tion Board.
The failure to publicize the names of the 
candidates in The Tartan cannot be blamed 
upon the Election Board. A list of candidate 
names was turned over to The Tartan prior 
to their publication deadline. Notice of the 
existence of the candidate list was given to 
Student Senate, although there is no evi
dence a copy was passed directly to them.
 One petition was never received by the 
Election Board, although it was reported to 
have been submitted to the Skibo Informa
tion Desk prior to the petition deadline.
There was confusion as to whether the 
fall or spring student roster was to be used 
when validating petitions. A spring roster 
dated January 14,1991, was used. When 
names appeared on petitions but not on the 
roster, they were double-checked with the 
Registrar by the Election Chairman, even 
though this procedure is not required.
Additionally, we find that the ad taken
out by the Public Relations Committee 
was inappropriate. Its attempt to com
pletely absolve itself for election difficul
ties while placing the blame entirely upon 
Alpha Phi Omega was unfair.
It is unfortunate that neither Alpha Phi 
Omega, the chairman of Student Senate, 
nor the President of the student body was 
consulted before Student Activities money 
was spent on this ad; if so, perhaps an 
accurate apology could have been pre
pared.
Alpha Phi Omega and Student Senate 
are currently working together to revise 
the election provisions and improve the 
election process. It is hoped that this will 
alleviate further problems with Student 
Senate elections.
Providing service to the CMU campus 
is an integral part of Alpha Phi Omega, 
and thus Kappa Chapter continues to 
maintain service as its top priority.
The brothers of Kappa Chapter, Al
pha Phi Omega
Protestors: Dont take your promises lightly
Editor:
Protestors: 
This letter is 
intended for 
you. Before you 
begin to conLetter to 
the Editor
sciously disregard everything I 
am about to say, I beg of you to 
listen closely.
Im not going to argue politics, 
the history of the Middle East, 
the U.S.s actions, or anything 
like that. Im going to plead that 
you keep a promise.
Like you, for the past 18 to 25 
plus years, I have grown up in the 
shadow of the Vietnam War. I 
saw the films and the specials on 
TV, and I read the articles and 
interviews of those who were ac
tually there.
I, too, tried to figure out why we
were there, why the U.S. govern
ment did the things it did. I tried 
to look at it from every aspect: the 
protestors, the innocent civilians, 
the politicians, and the soldiers. 
The last group, however, has kept 
my attention for far longer than 
any other.
Since my father has served for 
more than 23 years in the Navy, 
Ive lived in many places and talked 
to many people in the military. 
Some served in the jungles of 
Vietnam. Many today still feel 
alienated by the protestors who 
spat on them and treated them like 
garbage when they returned.
I, however, always thought that 
to be incredibly childish. It was as 
though the protestors wanted to 
strike out at somebody, anybody, 
in fact. I can sympathize with what
they were feeling and what youre 
feeling now. Truly, I can.
So, what does this have to do 
with the Persian Gulf war? Many 
have stated (and I strongly agree 
with them) that this war is a far, 
far cry from Vietnam. Both mili
tarily and politically, we have the 
advantage. All I ask of you is that 
you keep your word. When you 
speak out against war in the Gulf, 
you mention that you support our 
troops.
Well, I hope youre telling the 
truth. I really do. And as a mili
tary dependent, I have some sug
gestions that I hope youll take to 
heart.
Dont pull stunts like the one 
involving the attempted delivery 
of a bodybag that occurred a couple 
of weeks ago. That just made things
harder for the families. War is bad 
enough, but to be constantly re
minded of the possible fate of a 
loved one is unnerving.
Urge the media (especially the 
major networks) to lay off of the 
dependents. If there is one thing 
that angers military personnel and 
their dependents, its some reporter 
filming a woman who can barely 
control herself because shes 
stricken with fear for her husband. 
That is mere sensationalism.
Finally, be prepared to make good 
on your promises. When the bodies 
start coming in by the hundreds 
and we see the real brutality of 
modem warfare, dont turn your 
back on the servicemen and women. 
Dont call them ruthless killers. 
Work in the VA hospitals to help 
those who have lost limbs, or worse,
their sense of humanity within 
themselves. One only needs to look 
at Vietnam veterans to see what 
public hatred can do to your sense 
of self worth.
Im not asking that you stop in 
your efforts to end war. Im not 
asking you to be silent. All I want 
from you is two words. When its 
time to show your cards and make 
good on your bets, and youre asked 
not to forget those who gave so 
much, please, just please, say, We 
promise.
Christian M. Restifo 
Sophomore, chemical engi
neering
Editor's note: Restifos father is 
not serving in the Persian Gulf at 
this time.
Announces A Great New Travel Program.
Now students can get the Card 
and get 3 roundtrips on Continental 
Airlines, for only 29 or $189 each.
There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending 
a lot of money And that's by getting the American Express Card. 
Its the only card that offers an exciting new travel program 
exclusively for studentsincluding three roundtrip certificates on 
Continental Airlines.
Just look at the map and pick the place youd like 
to visit. If its on your side of the Mississippi River, you 
can use a certificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, 
you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip.
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the
Membership Has Its Privileges(
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytimebecause 
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations 
within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 
7 days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night.
In addition to this great travel program, youll also enjoy all 
the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student 
privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa-, 
tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable 
discounts from leading retailers.
But remember, theres only one way to get all thisand thats 
by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
with our special student offer, it's easier to get the 
Card now while youre still in school than it may 
ever be again.
So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide.
PleasDRR UlGSsl, 
pgggRlU8TIlRaRg aNTUmU e ZKIT, oTNKmUfdahh 5xA>>x0B.xajeX
Ifyou re already a Cardmember, theres no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon.CONTINENTAL

---------------------------------------------------

xvdmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a AA -iGslnsf xccx
Censorship blows, damn it
Shit.
1 -Everyones heard of censorship. In the 
past few years, the topic has heated up. 
With the nation-wide tour of the 
Mapplethorpe pictures and the advent of
2 Live Crew and The Geto Boys, censor
ship has visited the front page of many 
newspapers and magazines. And I mean 
that last statement in the most literal 
sense.
Fuck.
Im glad I can write a column with 
words such as fuck. It pleases me. 
However, I feel angry at those countries 
Where other writers cant write what 
they want, thus preventing the readers 
from reading what they want.
Or where people cant hear what they 
want on the radio, because the govern
ment has issued a list of songs that cant
This Is Not an Incinerator
Kevin Barney
be played over the airwaves while the 
Persian Gulf crisis is on.
Imagine theres no heaven, its easy if 
you try...
 J. Lennon 
Some of you are probably wondering 
what country Im talking about. Is it 
Yugoslavia, the Soviet Union, China, 
Argentina, or some other country that is 
noted for its oppressiveness?
Wrong. The country is Britain and the 
date is 1991.
SELECTIONS FROM THE BBC's LIST OF "NOT-SUGGESTED" LISTENING MATERIAL*
"Under Attack"
Waterloo". Love Is a Battlefield"
'' Atomic
"I Shot the Sheriff In the Air Tonlggtj;; Died in Your Arms Tonight
Two Tribes" .
Saturday Nights Alright for Fighting" - Imagine \ \ ' Light My Fire x Billy, Dont Be a Hero"
Killer Queen"Bang Bang
War"
 iITN The L.A. Times mUv Entertainment Weekly
ABBAABBA
Pat Benatar Blondie Eric Clapton 
Phil Collins Cutting Crew
Frankie Goes to Hollywood 
Elton John /
John Lennon 
Jim Morjison Paper Lace 
QueenSonny and Cher 
E. Starr
QmURGg vG kImUvKIGPmIpmU 8TION evRpTI
Saturday nights alright for fight
ing....
 E. John
The BBC has decided that a list of 
songs should not be heard during the 
Persian Gulf crisis. Imagine and Give 
Peace a Chance are two Lennon songs 
that are on the list.
I shot the sheriff, but I did not shoot 
the deputy....
 E. Clapton 
Unfortunately, the facts here are slim. 
Anywhere from 15 to 100 songs are on 
the list, and the term banned is clouded 
with colorful metaphors like suggested 
caution in airing. The L.A. Times pub
lished a list of 10 songs. Entertainment 
Weekly published a list of 16 songs. Both 
lists contain some of the same songs, but 
there are differences. Other sources have 
alluded that the number might be as 
high as 100. John Beerlings of the BBC 
Radio 1 network has responded by say
ing, There have been no records banned 
on Radio 1 whilst the Gulf war is on. 
[However], Local Radio compiled a list 
for their own stations.
I can feel it coming in the air tonight, 
hold on....
 P. Collins 
I can see the logic used in banning 
some of these songs. I didnt say I sup
port it, but I can see the logic. Give 
Peace a Chance, War, and Imagine 
were banned because they are anti-war. 
Walk Like an Egyptian was axed be
cause it would offend Egypt, a member of 
the coalition.
Come on baby, light my fire....
 J. Morrison 
But some of the other songs seem to
W"**
S tuden
S') r
MY t=
-r
/
PS
%
'*k
Anti war. 
RKmooM 
Ev/ER.-T"mi>0<H 
So wvTM 
0g60>11TIE~S
NorUifi^
/
r
G\0'JT. tye.ArNt> V EM
?A- Kvz-'bcvvr it
have been banned for no apparent rea
son. Could someone please explain to me 
why In the Air Tonight is on the list? Or 
Killing Me Softly with His Words? Why 
are these songs being banned, while other 
songs arent being touched? Why is For
tunate Son still on the playlist for the 
BBC, while Im on Fire cant be heard 
on British airwaves?
War. What is it good for1? Absolutely 
nothing....
 E. Starr
I have always thought the British gov
ernment was free-thinking. After this, I 
have to admit that I am wrong. This has 
hit just a little too close to home for my 
taste.
So, if you are planning to visit En
gland, bring a lot of tapes, because by the 
time you get there John Denver might be 
the only one left on the airwaves.
Kevin Barney is a senior professional 
writing major.
Men often perpetuate violence they dont admit
Some men dont get it.
I didnt mean people. I meant 
men. Im not betraying my gender; 
I*ni just damn angry that insen: sitivity and ignorance can reach 
Tnto my life and hurt people I love.
Last Friday, my girlfriend at| tended pledge night at the Cam; egie Mellon fraternity where she 
j is a little sister.
Over the course of the evening, 
a number of things happened 
1 there that disturbed her, and 
| when she told me about them 
| they disturbed me.
All of us in the Greek commu
nity (myself included) are famil, iar with house drinking songs that 
; view women in a particular lessthan-complimentary light  
songs that might be sung at house 
gatherings, like pledge night, for 
example. Harmless little bits of 
doggerel; dont mean a thing; we 
love you just as much, girls, you 
know we do  right?
Some of these songs were sung 
at this particular dinner. No harm 
intended or perceived, of course,
Michael T. Rose
but the mood was set for the 
evening. Its a fraternity, and 
were going to be crude and drink 
beer if we want to because, 
dammit, were men.
Later, the new pledge master 
talked to the little sisters and the 
new pledges, asking the women to 
tell the men about the house. My 
girlfriend, a little drunk by this 
time, asked if, after listening to the 
singing during dinner, the women 
were supposed to tell the new 
members how much they loved the 
house.
The pledge masters response? 
Hey, they were singing too. Sure! 
The new guys have got to get into 
the spirit of things.
Confession  to this point, I 
myself participated in parallel 
activities at my own house. I sang
songs, I drank beer. I approve of 
these activities on a personal level, 
and I will battle my demons of 
hypocrisy on my own time.
Fast forward, later on. My girl
friend had had a few more drinks, 
and so had a few of her brothers. 
The conversation wandered to the 
topic of sexism, specifically at the 
fraternities. The conversation 
became a debate. My girlfriend 
insisted that certain comments 
and acts by brothers were sexist. 
The brothers denied it. You tell 
her, guys. Set her straight.
The debate became an argument. 
My girlfriend moved to the topic of 
rape and sexual assault, and pro
test, and the Stop Rape signs 
that were at one time painted 
outside some houses. The brothers 
said that the signs were unfair, 
that they werent responsible for 
rapes, that sexual assaults couldnt 
happen in their house. (Absolutely 
not, guys. Be firm.)
My girlfriend insisted that they 
could, that drunken men are ca
pable of a lot of things, that the
brothers didnt protect non-littlesister women attending parties, 
that we can be guilty by inaction if 
we ignore the danger. The brothers 
vehemently denied these points. 
The argument became a shouting 
match. My girlfriend was angry. 
She said that it could happen, that 
a woman could be assaulted. The 
brothers said no, it couldnt.
'And then one of the brothers, 
who was yelling at my girlfriend 
to shut up and listen to him, did A 
Bad Thing.
He reached out, took her throat 
in his hand, and squeezed. Not 
hard, she says, but he squeezed. 
He squeezed, and he yelled, It 
couldnt happen here, and he 
squeezed again, and he said, Ill 
kill you if you dont listen to me. 
She was absolutely terrified. A 
brother yelled at the squeezer to 
calm down. He let go. He claimed 
it was only in jest. He said, You 
know I wouldnt really hurt you. 
Shes okay now. She was pretty 
damn scared, and shes still an
gry. But the truly scary thing is
that even after this, even after he 
grabbed her by the throat, he 
couldnt see it. He was blind to the 
depth of his hypocrisy.
I am a proud member of the 
Greek community. I am not bash
ing fraternities. Im not attacking 
the house in question  I have 
friends there, and I hope that 
after this sees print I still do. Im 
not even overly furious at the in
dividual guy.
What makes me shake with 
anger and despair is the absolute 
stupidity. I just cant stand it.
You proved it, friend. You 
spelled it out in beautiful, idiotic 
black and white. You stood there 
telling her that women were safe 
and respected and protected at 
your house and you proved they 
werent.
If you could grab her by the 
neck  you who know her, and 
you who are her friend  then 
how can you not see that another 
man, a guest at your house, or 
maybe even a house member, 
might be just a little bit drunker,
a little bit angrier, a little bit 
homier, a little bit more anything
 and that it might make him do 
something we know wed all re
gret?
I hope we take a lesson from 
this. My girlfriend will be all right, 
albeit an angrier and sadder per
son from now on. But we, my 
fellow men, will never be quite all 
right until we understand that 
we are usually physically stron
ger and definitely socially domi
nant, and the most angelic among 
us has been or can be tempted to 
use that power to inflict his will 
on a woman.
Thats why Stop Rape is on 
the Quad: not because were fra
ternities, but because were men 
with alcohol and we can do great 
harm if we dont understand the 
danger.
Think about it, guys. Think 
about it before we sing again, 
drink again, or worse.
Michael T. Rose is a senior 
professional writing major.
Music Dept plays favorites among students
PIANO, from page 8
to understand is why the non-majors must 
suffer. A great number of major and fac
ulty rooms could be used  why pick on 
those who have such limited access in the 
first place?
What bothers me most about this situ
ation is the degree of helplessness I feel. 
When two days out of five were essen
tially taken away from us (non-majors), 
I felt cheated or swindled, yet there was 
absolutely nothing I could have done 
about it. And now, to see a similar situ
ation rise once again this semester, I fear 
this will continue indefinitely, going 
unmentioned as it had before. As a re
cipient of weekly private lessons, I am
/ felt cheated or swindled, yet there was ab
solutely nothing I could have done about it.
charged an additional $425 per semes
ter, a charge which I understand and do 
not dispute as I would be paying a similar 
amount if I were to seek outside instruc
tion. Music majors do not pay such a fee, 
yet they are given their own keys to 
various rooms. I am not requesting a 
personal room key nor am I comparing 
myself to a major. I am merely stating 
that I feel we deserve better treatment
as paying students.
I receive nine units of credit for each 
semester of lessons I take. This means 
that I receive a grade based on my accom
plishments throughout the semester. If I 
am unable to practice more than one or 
two hours per week, I will consequently be 
unable to perform up to my teachers and 
my own expectations, thus resulting in 
lower grades than I am capable of
achieving. So you see this is not only a 
personal problem but an academic one as 
well. Should we as a group be punished 
merely because we are not music majors?
I chose this school over several others 
in large part because I could receive 
credit for lessons while not majoring in 
music. I read of CMUs Conservatory of 
Music and was told of its prestige and 
excellence in its field. I do not by any 
means discount the school or the depart
ment but I feel that a school of this 
caliber and resources can afford people 
like myself a little more respect.
Dale Kulick 
Junior, Psychology
Where has 
*The Archers 
Quiver gone?
Editor:
I find it hard to believe that a news
paper which can afford to publish a
16-page comics supplement cannot 
find enough space for Allan Bourdius 
column, as it exhibited last week. I am 
sure that this was an oversight and 
trust that The Archers Quiver has 
returned this week.
Christopher Becek 
Freshman, CIT
Politically Correct Universe cartoon draws sexist marks
on
Leiter to the Edi 1er
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I am really 
surprised' that 
you allowed the 
comic Politi
cally Correct 
Universe in the 2/4/91 issue of 
The Tartan to be printed.
I am not screaming censor
ship, as everyone has a right to 
voice his or her own opinion, but 
it seems that in this case The 
Tartan acted incredibly irre
sponsibly.
I am referring not only to the 
extremely sexist nature of the 
comic, but also to the fact that it 
specifically mentioned a CMU 
'student. Dont you edit these
things? I know that there has 
been controversy over the con
tent of several comics in the past, 
but I have never seen anything as 
immature and slanderous as this 
one.
To the three authors, C. 
Englehart, Alexander Ogil vie, and 
Glen DeVries: I dont know who 
gave you the right to define who 
women are.
Do you even know any real 
women? It seems that your ste
reotypes have been drawn from 
porn magazines and bad TV 
shows.
Do you really think that you are 
funny because you can get your 
frustrations with the female race
down on paper? Next time, keep it 
to yourselves.
It seems to be your misconcep
tion (and also that of some of the 
men on this campus) that women 
are objects and can be treated as 
such.
This is not the second grade, 
boys. You are not vengeful, im
mature, bed wetters anymore. 
GROW UP!!!!!
Stereotyping anyone on the 
basis of sex, sexual orientation, 
race, or religion only leads to 
closemindedness and bigotry. Is 
this how you perceive yourselves? 
Take a large step backwards and 
take a good look. Do you like what 
you see? I doubt any intelligent
woman would.
I want to address a few things 
in this comic directly. The first is 
the description of women as the 
gender without a penis. Look in 
the dictionarythe correct term 
is vagina. Its not a dirty word; 
you are allowed to use it. And 
remember which gender you came 
from  Im sure Mom would be 
really proud of you for this par
ticular use of words.
Number two: The warning 
about womyn who Cant French 
due to Ellen James protest. Ellen 
James was raped and then the  
rapist cut out her tongue so she 
couldnt tell anyone. Do you actu
ally think that is funny?
Rape is one of the most devas
tating things that can happen to a 
woman. I assume that you cant 
comprehend this. I suggest you 
try to.
You also wrote, Next Week: 
Dont fret gals! Its the myns 
[mans] turn!!! Is that supposed 
to make the women on this cam
pus that you so viciously debased 
feel any better? What will it be 
the week after that? Blacks? Jews? 
The handicapped?
Last but not least, the mention 
of Jessica Kaplan in one of your 
categories. I doubt that you even 
know her personally, although you 
go to the same school.
If you have a personal vendetta
against someone, dont cowardly 
smear it over the pages of The 
Tartan; be brave and confront 
them directly.
What you did is simply childish 
and cruel. I think that you should 
publicly apologize, not just to Jes
sica but to all women on this cam
pus.
One more thing: Laughter is 
sometimes a defense mechanism 
against things that one is afraid 
or unsure of.
Humor can be a means of say
ing offensive things without tak
ing responsibility for them.
Elizabeth Mogel 
Junior, art

---------------------------------------------------

dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccx
Hey brain-dead, listen up
Jonathan Levy
I know its been said before, but 
it bears repeating every once in a 
while. There doesnt seem to be 
any real connection between the 
ability to think in a classroom and 
the ability to think in the real world.
It sometimes seems hard to believe, but we supposedly have some 
fairly bright people at this school.
Maybe thats true if you mea
sure SAT scores coming in or 
starting salaries going out, but 
looking around at the people at 
CMU, you have to wonder how 
some of them manage to get 
dressed in the morning.
So, partly as a public service, 
and mostly because I love picking 
on people who are too stupid to 
live, heres a list of ways some of 
you folks out there can learn to 
get along better with the world on 
10 brain cells a day:
 Dont stand in narrow pas
sageways talking to a friend or 
just wearing a dumb expression 
on your face that makes you look 
as if you are trying to remember
how to walk. If you run into some
one you havent talked to in a 
week just as you are coming 
through a doorway, make it a 
week and two seconds and step 
out of the way. If you really have 
forgotten how to walk, see if you 
can manage to crawl to one side 
while you think about it. The same 
rule applies if you are walking 
along a narrow hallway or stair
case. If you have to stop, get out of 
the way. Better yet, dont stop.
If you must walk down the 
sidewalk at the speed of a 
wounded turtle, dont do it two 
abreast. If you are having that 
much trouble walking down the 
street, you really dont have any 
extra brain power to waste on 
talking to your companion any
way. Leave a path so those people 
who have places to go and lives to 
lead can get past you.
Dont sing, dance, or otherwise 
make a public fool of yourself in 
dining facilities. Believe it or not, 
some people actually go to High
lander for reasons other than 
seeing if you can break the worlds 
record for extroversion. If people 
want to see you perform, theyll 
buy tickets. Until that happens, 
keep it to yourself.
If you are walking with some
one and you meet a person you 
know but your companion does 
not know, dont stop to talk! Ad
mittedly, this one only earns you 
the hatred of your friends and not 
the whole world. Still, if you are in 
the habit of doing things like this, 
you probably dont have many 
friends to spare.
 Last, but certainly not least, if 
you insist on going out and getting 
even stupider than you usually 
are, take someone with you who 
can keep you out of trouble. And if 
you violate this rule and the 
trouble you cause can be fixed the 
next day  fix it! For three years, 
Ive been wondering about the 
mallet-head who deposited a pool 
of vomit at the bottom of the main 
stairs in Morewood Gardens on a 
Friday evening and left it there 
for the rest of the weekend. I can 
only suppose he or she decided 
that cleaning it up would be too 
disgusting, as if stepping over it 
while it fermented for three days 
was the highlight of 1,000 other 
peoples weekends.
Jonathan Levy is a second year 
SUP A masters student and a 1990 
Biology Department alumnus.
SUPA letter errs in conclusions
Letter to 
the Editor
onEditor:
Recently The Tartan chose to 
publish a letter from Some con
cerned SUPA students [Dean of 
SUPA must be removed, 1/29/
91]. We the undersigned, SUPA 
students with names, wish to take issue with this 
letter on four counts.
1) Most newspapers and journals of repute do not 
publish anonymous letters. This policy forces in
dividuals to be responsible for their words, and 
encourages letter writers to be constructive in their 
criticisms. Additionally, this puts legal responsibil
ity for potentially slanderous or libelous comments
on the letter writer rather than the publication. In 
deciding to publish an anonymous letter, The Tar
tan departs from responsible journalism. Addition
ally, the headline to the letter was sensationalistic 
and did not reflect the content of the letter.
2) The authors of the letter ran through a grocery 
list of complaints about SUPA without clearly or 
precisely stating what they think our problems are. 
What, specifically, are the issues of concern with 
regard to SUPAs faculty, administration, person
nel, curriculum, etc.? If the authors are to attack the 
school so vociferously, they should at least sub
stantiate their allegations.
Please see SUPA, page 12
PC doesnt stand up to name
The Ego Has Landed 
k
Javier Grillo-Marxuach
The Thought Police was the 
title given to axeceatNewsweek 
article on PC. PC, or politically 
correct, is the buzzword for' 
late-model liberal thought. At 
best, PC may be taken as an 
umbrella term for the aware
ness, tolerance and liberation 
of groups which have been 
marginalized by the main
stream of society. At its worst, 
PC represents an ugly form of 
zealotry upon which the media 
has been too quick to capitalize, 
hence the Orwellian title of the 
Newsweek article.
PC is a distinction of dubious 
validity. As it has been repre
sented in the media, PC brings 
with it the assumption that one 
simple set of rules is privileged 
above all others, a contradiction 
in a term which purports to 
represent a number of systems 
of thought which strive for 
plurality in society.
Because, in its own way, the 
idea of PC represents a form of 
closed-mindedness, the term 
has been latched upon as one of 
the many demons against which 
mainstream America must 
wage war. The ideas which have 
come to be identified as PC are 
crucial to the ongoing process 
by which the ideological im
perfections of society are 
brought out into the open and 
addressed or further hidden 
from view.
However, the notion of PC 
has become an easy way for 
these ideological wrongs to be
further hidden under the guise of 
deference and doubletalk.
One of the more unpleasant 
aspects of PC is that to many, it 
has become the opposite but equal 
image of what was once referred 
to as the White Mans Burden. 
If the White Mans Burden signi
fied a guilty rationafization of the 
desire to impose civilization 
upon others, many of the descen
dants of the privileged class have 
adopted PC as an admission of 
guilt which carries no atonement.
In making all of the small, eas
ily identifiable compromises dictatedby the watered-down version 
of liberation which has been 
identified in the mainstream as 
PC, those who have adopted the 
attitude of political correctness 
have effectively avoided making 
any of the real sacrifices which 
would be required from them if 
creating a fairer society was truly 
their goal.
If the idea of PC ever had any 
credibility, it has been destroyed 
by the fact that PC has become a 
commodity. I am not merely re
ferring to the fact that certain 
products are being marketed as 
Environmentally Safe,or Dol
phin Safe, but to the belief, sold 
and bought every day in the 
United States, that chanting a 
slogan or changing the maimer in 
which one refers to certain groups 
in everyday speech is the quickand-easy way to redemption for 
ones transgressions.
Although many would like to 
disavow the notion of PC, it would 
be a mistake to say that much of 
the extremism and irrationality 
vfhichNewsweek has identified as 
part of PC thought does not exist.
However, while Newsweek 
wastes its ink fuming over such 
examples of PC thought as the 
idea that minorities are incapable
of racism (because the very term 
racism implies oppression from 
a position in society which mi
norities have been so far de
nied), it would be appropriate 
for those who consider their 
views to be politically correcj 
(or who do not consider thejj 
views to be politically corr^fe 
as the very term to be politic 
cally correct is no longer po
litically correct), as well as those 
who are identified as the oppo* 
site, to properly qualify the 
terms which are currently be
ing used against them.
Whether intentionally or not; 
the term PC represents a mis
guided conscience. Like <1,^ 
term racism, the misnamgc} 
PC stems from the tendency of 
racists, egalitarians, the main
stream, the marginalized, and 
every other group in society to 
give so much weight to their 
convictions that the capacity to 
recognize their own potential; 
for hatred and duplicity is atro-; 
phied by the stress of self-righ-; 
teousness.
If contradictions have arisen, 
from the notion of politically 
correct thought, it may be be
cause imposing a label on a set 
of ideas as diverse as those 
which are tossed under the PC 
umbrella  convenient though 
it may be when it comes to writ
ing inflammatory magazine, 
articles  undermines the in
tegrity of those ideas. As indi
viduals subject to feelings of 
indignation, hatred, love, con
tempt, and denial of our own 
flaws, the simplistic judgement 
of what is politically correct for 
others is invariably bound to.be 
unfair, if not presumptuous.,
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is a 
creative writing major. 
Capable.
Affordable.
Adaptable.
Affordable.
Transportable.
Affordable.
When it comes to increasing 
productivity at an economical price, theres 
no tool thats more able.
Meet the Macintosh* Classic computer. 
Its the most affordable Macintosh, yet it can 
handle a variety of basic home, office, and 
classroom applications, such as word 
processing and spreadsheet analysis.
The Classic is a complete Macintosh.
Its monitor, keyboard, mouse and system 
software are all included, as are extras you 
might not expectsuch as the ability to
network and the Apple* SuperDrive~disk 
drive, which lets the Classic read from and 
write to MS-DOS, OS/2, and ProDOS*fiJes.
The Classic can easily go where you 
need to go, when you need to go there. Its 
integrated design, light, weight and built-in 
carrying handle are ideal for a person on 
the move.
So come in and see a demonstration. 
And see a new value in personal 
computing that couldnt be more 
respectable. Or affordable.
Available.
For more information visit 
the Carnegie 
Mellon Computer 
Store 
or call 268-2636
A

---------------------------------------------------

12dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccx
Let fraternities live in peace
Well, it happened again. The school 
drops the soap and we, being the idiots 
that we are, bend over to pick it up. It 
seems to happen every time any group of 
students turns its back on the adminis
tration.
You see, a rumor has been circulating 
that the school is going to increase the 
leases for the fraternity houses by 25 
percent. Why, you ask? To make im
provements in the houses, and to do 
building maintenance.
Yeah, right. Why is it that the admin
istration believes the Greek community 
is dumb enough to believe them?
First of all, the school forced the frater
nities and sororities to move on campus 
back in the 60s. Then, the school forced 
them to move into those makeshift dorms 
the administration calls houses. While 
they were being built, the houses were 
called temporary housing. Things dont 
look too temporary to me. And, to top it 
all off, the school didnt even have the 
ground broken on the quad when they 
decided to make the Greeks move on 
campus. In traditional CMU fashion, it 
took protesting and few years for the 
htJtlses to actually be finished.
-The Tartan spoke to a few members of 
the -administration about the lease in
crease. Of course, they received the usual 
ruiL-around  everyone talked a lot but 
said nothing. All that was said, accord
ing to Director of Housing Tony Martin, 
was that there may be a lease increase to
Richard Robinson
improve the quality of life. Im sorry, 
but even this isnt a well-founded reason. 
The school acts as the landlord for the 
fraternities. When you live in an apart
ment building and your sink breaks, you 
dont have to pay for the labor or new 
parts. Your landlord does it because its 
his job.
Oh, but we need more money so we 
can do our job better, theyll probably 
say. Who the hell has been paying for 
things for the past twenty years? New 
carpeting, painting, floors, furniture, 
refrigerators, and anything else the fra
ternity members have been able to fix on 
their own, they have done.
Of course, they cant fix everything. 
The school makes sure that they get a 
cut. So the school mandates that for 
certain items, the houses must call 
Physical Plant. Then Physical Plant takes 
their jolly time in responding to a work 
order. This happened last semester when 
a house had two speakers stolen because 
Physical Plant took three weeks to fix a 
broken door.
One of the real reasons for the (ru
mored) increase proposal probably has 
to do with the fact that new kitchen
standards have come out. And because 
the school has done nothing to improve 
the kitchens of the fraternity houses in 
the past fifteen years, they are going to 
have to lay out a lot of money to get 
things just up to regulation. In addition, 
the school usually pays way too much 
money on small items. They probably 
dont get more than one estimate and 
then just sign it, not looking at how much 
money the contractor is stealing from 
them  much like the Pentagon paying 
a couple million dollars for a hammer.
The fraternities cant handle a lease 
increase as it is. The biggest selling point 
of many houses is that it is cheaper to 
live in the house than in the dorms, or at 
least not more expensive. In addition, all 
of us at Carnegie Mellon are paying out 
the butt for a good education  which a 
lot of us arent getting in many of our 
classes. Where does it all end? You would 
figure that they could give us a break on 
housing.
Many fraternity members have men
tioned that they would rather get paid 
back by the school for the renovations 
and maintenance they have done in the 
past and keep doing their own work than 
pay the school way too much money to do 
it. Administration  why dont you cut 
your salaries and leave the students 
alone?
Richard Robinson is a junior IM ma
jor.
Bourdius fan remarks 
on quality of Tartan
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
Let us take a cur
sory lookthrough the 
February 4 issue of 
The Tartan. An ar
ticle about how were 
not using the correct words to describe 
our involvement in the Middle East. A 
discussion that John Bonham cannot 
appreciate his performance on the Led 
Zeppelin box set because he is dead. A 
dissertation about the importance of 
television theme songs. It seems that 
the most interesting aspects of the 
paper now are the Crime & Incident 
reports and the Letters to the Editor.
The purpose of a newspaper is to 
inform its readers: This is provided not 
only by news, but also by columns.
Allan Bourdius was one of your writ
ers who, while he had a strong opinion, 
informed his readers. That is why fir
ing Bourdius from Forum is one of the 
most repulsive decisions the paper has 
made since colorizing itself. Bourdius 
wrote one ofthe few intelligent columns 
in the paper that I looked forward to 
reading each week.
Lets take, for instance, his article on 
how we cannot support our troops 
without supporting the war. I disagree. 
I feel that if your family and friends
have become part of the war effort, 
that you will support them, while ask
ing important questions as to why the 
whole war is even being fought. I even 
support friends I dont always agree 
with. After reading Bourdius article, I 
can discuss my opinions with anyone, 
since the article has actually inspired 
thought.
Allan Bourdius was censored because 
The Tartan wants to be unbiased. 
Bourdius seems very conservative. His 
removal was necessary to keep with the 
papers philosophy. However, this phi
losophy needs to change. When I wrote 
for my elementary school paper, I took 
more risk than The Tartan does now in 
covering the Middle East.
Bourdius brought The Tartan spice, 
debate, and intelligence. Perhaps au
thors of articles about the latest tech
nology in Nintendo games can keep this 
level of writing. However, I highly doubt 
it. At least The Student Union has a 
backbone. AtleasttheNationalEnquirer 
has spice. And at least the world-re
nowned colorizer Ted Turner expresses 
his opinion.
Scott Zucker
Senior, Industrial Management & 
Economics
Anonymous SUPA letter angers other SUPA students
SUPA, from page 11
3. In our opinion, the environment at SUPA is 
relatively open in terms of encouraging dialogue 
among students, faculty, and the administration. 
Students have been given many opportunities to 
voice their concerns individually or through their 
representatives to the administration. We have 
witnessed several changes in school policy as a 
result of some of these interactions. These include 
changes in the MS and MAM curricula, faculty 
recruiting that is more responsive to student inter
ests, upgrades of computer facilities, and adminis
tration agreement to review the disparity of SUPA 
PhD stipends with the rest of the campus.
4. In regard to their comments on the composition 
of the review committee, the authors clearly dem
onstrate that they are misinformed. The review
committee is not charged with making a recom
mendation about DeanBlumsteins reappointment. 
The committee is charged with compiling a report 
of the comments registered by faculty, staff, stu
dents, and other administrators. Hence there is 
little cause for committee members to fear retribu
tion for the content of the report. The committee 
members are messengers to President Mehrabian
 they are not the decision makers.
In addition, research funding fonSUPA faculty is 
not provided by the school itself or by the dean, but 
rather comes from outside funding agencies. Lastly, 
there is substantial non-SUPA representation on 
the committee. Thus, we do not share the authors 
concern about bias or conflict of interest.
We do not deny the existence of problems in the 
administration of SUPA, nor do we wish to curtail
students rights to express their concerns publicly. 
We share some of their concerns.
Over the past three years SUPA has experienced 
unusually high faculty turnover. MS classes are 
quite large and rely too much on TAs. Finally, space 
in Hamburg Hall has not kept pace with the growth 
of the MS, MAM and MPM programs, resulting in 
serious overcrowding.
The review process for Dean Blumstein has pro
visions for this sort of student input  indeed, 
student representatives of each class at SUPA have 
been asked to gather and report on students opinions 
of the school and its administration and will be 
including these concerns in their report to the 
committee.
We believe this report to be an effective avenue 
for transmitting students sentiments.
On the other hand, we believe that anonymous 
letters, like the one published by The Tartan, are 
irresponsible.
They promote rancor within the SUPA commu
nity, and do little to further the causes of the 
authors. Indeed, they breed distrust.
Whoever the concerned SUPA students are, 
they would do well to voice their concerns openly.
Only through active dialogue can we hope both to 
reach consensus on what SUPAs priorities should 
be, and to determine the most effective means for 
cooperatively capitalizing on our opportunities and 
meeting the challenges confronting us.
Don Smith, Kate Gavaghan, Kim van der 
Veen, Meg Deane, Lisa Alter, Kathryn John
son, Jasmeet Seehra
Americas still choking on high death rate of smokers
Death was much on American 
minds when the Gulf war produced 
the first 11 deaths from ground 
combat. How many Americans 
noticed the reports from the Fed
eral Centers for Disease Control 
that concluded that434,000 deaths 
in 1988 were the result of tobacco?
Most of these deaths  up 11 
percent over 1985  were from 
self-inflicted wounds inflicted over 
10, 20, or more years, the time it 
usually takes for smoking to result 
in cancer. But for some thousands 
of adults and children, death came 
from the secondhand smoke of oth
ers and because parents smoked 
during pregnancy or around their 
infants. (Secondhand smoke in
creases the risk of sudden infant 
death syndrome.)
Fathers who smoke increase the
George F. 
Will
risk that their children will have 
brain cancer or leukemia, which 
suggests that smoking can dam
age sperm. Recent research also 
suggests that smoking accelerates 
development of AIDS in infected 
people, and that there is a danger
ous synergism between depression 
and nicotine addiction.
Most of those 1988 tobacco fa
talities resulted from addictions
Eddidto r:SSdU
All you can eat only $6.95 
Friday & Saturday 5-9:00 
p.m.
Sunday 12:00-3:00 p.m.
China Inn Restaurant
For take out call:
621-6199m
Daily Lunch Special
 one entree over rice 
 with chefs special soup 
 and served with tea 
 and fortune cookie 
 only  $3.79 
4609 Centre Ave.,
N. Oakland/Shadyside Area 
(across from Giant Eagle)
acquired before or not long after 
the 1964 Surgeon Generals report 
insistingon the connection between 
smoking and cancer. Today, grimly 
realistic social policy counts on 
these utterly predictable casual
ties of foolish behavior: The Social 
Security system counts on millions 
of smokers dying before receiving 
many, if any, benefits.
Todays tobacco-related mortal
ity rates reflect a lag of about a 
generation in changed behavior. 
Todays various behavior-changing policies constitute reasonable 
attempts to deal with the conun
drum of a legally-merchandised 
product that is invariably harm
ful. Consider these:
Eight California chain stores and 
some tobacco manufacturers have 
paid a $750,000 fine for not warnft
ing customers that cigars and pipe 
tobacco can cause cancer and birth 
defects. Massachusetts Supreme 
Court has allowed plaintiffs in a 
liability case against Phillip Morris 
to name as a defendant a store that 
sold their cigarettes to minors.
One in six cases of lung cancer in 
non-smokers is caused by pro
tracted exposure of children to 
secondhand smoke at home. 
Twenty-five smoker-yearstwo 
parents smoking 12-and-a-half 
years  doubles a childs lungcancer risk.
Californias state health direc
tor wants state universities and 
major pension funds to divest 
themselves of their $525 million of 
stocks in tobacco companies. 
Smoking will soon be banned on all 
regularly scheduled bus trips in
H*
the United States, affecting 300 
companies carrying 94 million 
passengers a year.
The University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, is extending its smoking 
ban from 18 buildings to almost all 
its 900 buildings, a policy compa
rable to that of Temple University 
in Philadelphia. Some campuses 
are considering giving staff who 
smoke paid hours of leave to at
tend classes to help them quit.
As a result of these and many
other measures, comprising a 
comprehensive campaign against 
millions of premature deaths, 20 
years from now the ashtray may 
have gone the way of the spittoon. 
This happy result would mean 
victory in a war that already has 
killedmany times more people than 
have died in all of Americas wars.
George F. Will is a syndicated 
columnist with the Washington 
Post Writers Group.
Ash Wednesday
sTNmU dmpSTgRo jm,,G, TU djt dmNKO,9
Wednesday, February 13 
Wherrett Room, 12:00 Noon & 5:00 p.m.
Call The Oratory at 681-3181 for more information.
Special! Quantities Limited
99
DOZEN
Compare at $50 - $75 
Our Annual Finest quality, long stem red roses, beautifully o ii giftboxed with greens, babys breath, card, bow, & morel
CARNATIONS...$14.95 Dozen BOUQUETS...$9.99 Blooming Plants from $2.99
CMU Discount - Free local delivery with orders placed by Feb. 12th.
m
BloomfieldLiberty at 38th Street 681-3503
liFlower
South HillsRt. 19 McMurray941-4887
PlhfWarehuse
CAl.I. OR STOP IN NOW TO RESERVE DAILY DELIVERY
LOSE 20 POUNDS 
IN TWO WEEKS!
Famous U.S. Women's Ski Team Diet
During the non-snow off season the U.S. Women's Alpine Ski Team 
members used the "Ski Team" diet to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. That's right 
20poundsinl4 days! The basis ofthe diet is chemical food action and was devised 
by a famous Colorado physician especially for the U.S. Ski Team. Normal energy 
is maintained (very important!) while reducing. Youkeep"full" no starvation 
 because the diet is designed that way. It's a diet that is easy to follow whether 
you work, travel or stay at home.
This is, honestly, a fantastically successful diet. If it weren't, the U.S. 
Women's Ski Team wouldn't be permitted to use it! Right? So, give yourself the 
same break the U.S. Ski Team gets. Lose weight the scientific, proven way. Even 
if you've tried all the other diets, you owe it to yourself to try the U.S. Women's Ski 
Team Diet That is, if you really do want to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. Order 
today. Tear this out as a reminder.
Send only $10.00(510.50 for Rush Service) - to: SlimQuik, P.O.Box 103, 
Dept. 2R, Hayden, ID 83835. Don't order unless you want to lose 20 pounds in 
two weeks! Because that's what the Ski Team Diet will do.  1990
INTERNSHIPS
LONDON 
PARIS
av3GIpR,RUWjmIyGpRUWMs X PSG aIp, 
dTNKmImpR3G hGWmg wf,pGN, X eOITKGmU 
eoTUTNf mUv MTgRpRo, XjmUmWGNGUp 
eoTUTNRo,8RUmUoG X TOIUmgR,NITmvom,p 
8RgN X MTgRpRo, mUv JUpGIUmpRTUmg sGgmpRTU, 
M,foSTgTWf mUv wToRmg MTgRof
jGvRm  MOngRo sGgmpRTU, X O,RUG,, X av3GIpR,RUW 
PTOIR,N X 8m,SRTU X PSG aIp, X kT3GIUNGUp
WASHINGTON
8TI KITWImN vGpmRg, oTNKgGpG 
pSG oTOKTU nGgTr mUv Nmgg Rp pT9
T,pTU tUR3GI,Rpf 
JUpGIUmpRTUmg MITWImN, 
.F. mf wpmpG sTmv 
T,pTUb ja >..57 
C5F7Fx0AAA
MTgRpRo, X O,RUG,,eoTUTNRo, X hGWmg wf,pGN, 
JUpGIUmpRTUmg sTgmpRTU, X TOIUmgR,NdTNNOUR_
ompRTU, X lGmgpS 8RGgv, X PSG aIp,
emoS RUpGIU,SRK KITWImN RUogOvG,9 OK 
pT 5C T,pTU tUR3GI,Rpf ,GNG,pGIxSTOI 
oIGvRp,b iOggxpRNG RUpGIU,SRK,b oTOI,G 
rTIy pmOWSp nf gTomg imoOgpfb oGUpImggf 
gTompGv STO,RUWb mUv RUvR3RvOmgR&Gv 
KgmoGNGUp, iTI 3RIpOmggf G3GIf momvGNRo 
RUpGIG,p6
BOSTON UNIVERSITY
An equal opportunity, 
affirmative action institution
A representative from Boston University will be on campus:
Table 
February 25, 1991 
12:30-2:00 pm 
Skibo Hall
avvIG,, 2 
dRpf22222xZRK6
dTggGWGtUR3GI,Rpf 2
xxxxxhTUvTU JUpGIU,SRK MITWImNNG
222PSG aIp,
xxxxxdTNKmImpR3G hGWmg wf,pGN,
xxxxxeOITKGmU eoTUTNf mUv MTgRpRd,
xxxxxjmUmWGNGUpeoTUTNRo,8RUmUoG
xxxxxM,foSTgTWf mUv wToRmg MTgRof
xxxxxMTgRpRo, mUv JUpGIUmpRTUmg sGgmpRTU,
xxxxxav3GIpR,RUWMsjmIyGpRUW
xxxxxTOIUmgR,NITmvom,p8RgN222MmIR, JUpGIU,SRK MITWImN
xxxxxcm,SRUWpTU JUpGIU,SRK MITWImN

---------------------------------------------------

W/m,
PRESS PASS
by Jason McDonald
A little dose 
of reality
As I was blissfully going 
about my business at 
yesterdays basketball games 
against the University of 
Chicago, one of the student 
trainers for the mens team, 
after ascertaining my identity, 
confirmed me as the guy who 
keeps chopping down the mens 
team every week.
I found myself honestly 
offended by his assertion that I 
was being at all vicious toward 
the mens basketball team. 
Apparently, he doesnt wouldnt 
know a vicious column if it came 
up and bit him on the ass. It 
would also seem that he doesnt 
have the faintest understanding 
of my respect for the job the 
team has done this season.
I never knew that being 
realistic could be misconstrued 
as being the same thing as 
chopping a team down. Color 
me crazy, but I cant shut my 
eyes and pretend that losing 
games by 15-point margins is a 
good thing. I wouldnt be doing 
my job as a journalist if I did 
that. I do, however, realize that 
the team has made incredible 
progress over last season.
The fact of the matter is that 
this team has the talent to play 
with any team in the University 
Athletic Association, and they 
have at times proven it on the 
court. The group of players that 
first-year head coach Tony 
Wingen has assembled is well 
on its way to being a conference 
contender. The only ingredient 
missing from the Tartans 
success formula is time. And 
another really tall guy.
The mental progress is the 
first sign of their success. The 
never-say-die attitude that 
Wingen has cultivated in his 
players is remarkable  con
vincing players to fight back 
from double-digit deficits isnt 
easy or fun, but Wingen is able 
to convince his players to do 
just that.
In addition, team chemistry is 
at a level Ive never seen in my 
days at The Tartan, and the 
team actually bothers to get 
upset when they lose. Last year, 
Tartan players seemed to be 
more concerned with where the 
bus stopped for dinner.
The credentials are also in the 
statistics if you look for them. 
Seven wins coming back from a 
4-21 campaign is definitely a 
success. The team has reached 
the .500 mark on their home 
court (6-6), and in Tuesdays 
game against Point Park, they 
set a school record for points in 
a regulation game. The defense 
has vastly improved over last 
season, when opponents rou
tinely lit up the scoreboard like 
a Christmas tree.
So they do have the talent to 
compete at this level. If youd 
bother to check, Ive never 
suggested otherwise.
But lets face it. The Tartans 
ueed more big men to fill the 
inside game. Theyve struggled 
n the road all season. They 
peed more experience and 
^tensity if theyre going to go 
UP head-to-head with the 
current conference power
houses. These problems arent 
going to fix themselves over
sight; theres a light at the end 
f the tunnel, but there may be 
mre tough times ahead.
Thats not being vicious; thats 
just the facts.
Jason McDonald is a junior 
M major.
  X oTartans cruise past Chicago
Men reach .500 at home 
Pmv QToy,pmvGIPmIpmU dTUpIRnOpRUW evRpTI 
Junior guard Phil Bronner topples Washington Universitys Lance Shoulders as he drives 
for the basket.
By AMY WILSON
Special to The Tartan
The mens basketball team electrified 
the fans yesterday with a 73-67 win over 
the Chicago Maroons. The Tartans im
proved to 3-9 in the UAA and 715 overall.
The Tartans took an early six point lead, 
which they were able to maintain for the 
first 15 minutes of play. The Maroons 
finally got their bearings and closed the 
gap to one point with 1:11 left in the half. 
At half-time, the Tartans were ahead 33 
32.
The start of the second half saw the 
Maroons coming on strong. They managed 
to take the lead during the first three 
minutes, but the Tartan offense was not to 
be outdone. A seven point, two-minute run 
gave CMU the lead. Chicago regrouped 
and managed to tie the score with 12:27 
left on the clock.
The CMU offense went into overdrive as 
junior Philip Bronner had a six point run. 
Then Freshman Mike Hosni had a seven 
point run of his own. The Maroons didnt 
stand a chance and went down 67-73.
The return of Bronner, who was out 
earlier in the season due to injury, has 
definitely boosted the teams confidence. 
It gives us another strong guard off the 
bench. Plus his experience really helps, 
said Hosni.
Sophomore Lamman Rucker led the 
scoring with 17 points and five rebounds. 
Bronner dumped in 13 points and Hosni 
tossed in 12 points and five rebounds. 
Freshman Derek Dragisich led the Tar
tans in rebounding with seven.
s'lJHf 
ib 8f
"Things are falling in - 
place for us. We 
mixed up the defense
ZPIodand went to the matchI 
up zone on them. Th&y 
weren't expecting it 
The guys just did a tre
mendous job,  r*v*.b
 coach Tony Wingen
The only low point ofthe game was Wjlfen 
Dragisich was given a technical foul HeHa 
verbally abusing the referee. I just said 
that it was a lousy call, Dragisich said,.*.
Head coach Toiny Wingen is encouraged 
by the Tartans win. Things are fallings 
place for us, he said. We mixed upiiie 
defense and went to the match-up zone on 
them. They werent expecting it. The 
just did a tremendous job.
Friday night, the Tartans lost a 7^74 
decision to a tough Washington Univer; 
sity team. The Tartans came back from a_ 
12 point halftime deficit to come within "2' 
points of Washington with just less tlian, 
10 minutes left in the second half, but 
couldnt keep up the pace.
Washington started the game with'ji 
unanswered points in the first two rriihutes. The Tartan kicked in, but theud-' 
Please see MEN, page.l^
Chicago hands women first home lossAd<i 
di Jo
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon womens 
basketball team suffered its first 
home loss of the season yesterday, 
dropping a 51-43 decision to the 
University of Chicago. The loss 
brought the Tartans overall 
record to 18-5 and made their 
University Athletic Association 
record 10-2.
They werent doing anything 
different [from the earlier meet
ing between the teams], said 
sophomore guard Kelly Sterling. 
It seemed as if a couple of their 
players were playing better, and 
they didnt get into as much foul 
trouble as they did last time.
The Tartans broke out to an 
early lead, hitting from all over 
the court, but the Maroons coun
tered with a 142 run to make the 
score 2318 with eight minutes 
left in the half. The Tartans tied 
the game up in the final minute, 
but Maroon guard Kim Burke hit 
a basket as time ran out to give 
Chicago a 29-27 halftime advan
tage.
The second half was just plain 
bad, bearing more resemblance 
to a rugby match than to a bas
ketball game. The Tartans shot 
.188 in the second period, but were 
outdone by Chicagos .179 shoot
ing percentage. Chicago rattled 
off the first eight points of the 
second half to take a 10-point 
lead, the largest of the game. The 
Tartans chipped away at the lead, 
helped by a seven minute Maroon 
scoreless stretch, and were able 
to tie the game at 40 with 4:11 to 
play.
Unfortunately, five fouls in the 
last three minutes proved to be 
the downfall of the Tartans. The 
Maroons scored seven points at 
the free throw fine to key an 11 
3 run down the stretch.
Shooting was a big factor be
cause we didnt have the offensive 
rebounding we needed, said 
Sterling. The officiating didnt 
help, but we cant use that as an 
excuse.
I dont think we were aggres
sive enough, said freshman for
ward Jeanine Megahan. They 
were getting to the loose balls and 
getting the big rebounds.
The loss was even more bitter 
since Chicago won the game 
without two of their best players. 
All-UAA performer Kristin 
Maschka missed the trip with the 
flu; freshman Heather Gammel, 
who scored 16 points in the first 
CMU-Chicago game, suffered a 
broken ankle against Washing
ton University. The losses were 
offset by the return of sophomore 
guard Allison Heyne from knee 
surgery; Heyne co-led the Ma
roons with 14 points.
Megahan was the only Tartan 
to score in double digits with 10 
points. Megahan also pulled down 
a game-high 11 rebounds.
On Friday, the Tartans got their 
biggest win of the season, beating 
Washington University, 56-54, in 
overtime. The win gave the Tar
tans a head-to-head 
against Washington which 
give the Tartans the 
championship in the likely 
that the two teams finish the sea
son in a tie. The Tartans came 
back from a 10-point halftime 
deficit to force the extra period 
and win the game.
The first 12 minutes were very 
close, as the game stood tied on 
six separate occasions. The game 
was tied at 12 when the 
poured in six unanswere 
A five point Bear run 
soon after, and the Tartans 
to the half trailing 28-18.
In a mirror image of the earlier 
meeting of the teams, the Tartans 
began the second half by falling 
even further back. With just less 
than nine minutes left, the Tar
tans trailed by 13, 44-31.
The Tartans put together a 
brilliant comeback, even endur
ing a partial power failure that 
forced the teams to play on a 
partially darkened court until late 
in overtime. But the Tartans did 
give the Bears prime chances to 
win the game; missed foul shots 
by the usually accurate Karen 
Hermann and Chanda Jackson 
were the only thing that prevented 
the Bears from putting the game 
away in the last minute.
Going into the overtime with 
the momentum, the Tartans pro
ceeded to finish the Bears off. 
Although the final score was 56- 
54, the game wasnt that close as
T,S 8IGGNmUPmIpmU MSTpTWImKSGI $ 
Sophomore guard Kelly Sterling leaps for the rebound during the Tartans impressive win over Washington 
University. y1
the Tartans missed a few late 
chances to pad their lead at the 
foul line.
Megahan, junior forward Amy 
Buxbaum, and Sterling all put 
double-digit point totals on the 
board, scoring 19, 18, and 10 
points, respectively. Buxbaum 
and Megahan also added double
digit rebounds. Buxbaum pulled
down 16 rebounds, and Megahan 
added 12.
This weekend, the Tartans 
travel to Boston for a Friday non
conference game against Suffolk 
University and a Sunday UAA 
matchup against Brandeis.
Most of what we need is to get 
a more up attitude, said Ster
ling. I think we believe in ourselves, but we tend to get a little 
down at times.
Its very important for us to 
win our last two UAA games,' es
pecially after this loss.'
Weve had too many ups 
downs this season, 
Megahan. We play a 
and then come out flat. We 
to learn more consistency.

---------------------------------------------------

14dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccx
Men break scoring record...
Tartans land two wins
MEN, from page 13
fense was still struggling. They 
managed to keep the Bears lead 
under control but couldnt make a 
dent in it. At half-time, the Tartans'were trailing 45-33.
''The second half saw neither 
team dominating the boards. The 
Ta^fcan offense came alive and 
induced the deficit to five points 
with, a three-minute run. Wash
ington came right back with a 
S'SYi&n point, two-minute run of 
their own.
r<iGMU went on a hot-streak and 
brought the score to within two 
goints with 9:55 left on the clock. 
Iffrrfortunately, the Bears 
flggrpiiped and were able to keep 
tlt^^artan offense under control 
and finished the game with a fivepciint lead.
.Dragisich led the Tartan scor
ing with 23 points and eight re
bounds. Bronner and Hosni added 
17 and 15 points, respectively. 
Rucker pulled down a team high
10 rebounds.
.In the weeks only non-UAA 
game, the Tartans set a new CMU 
reSbord in their decisive defeat of 
the Point Park Pioneers Tuesday 
night, 108-89. The old record high 
score, set during the 1965-66 
season, was 105 points.
Three freshmen led the Tartan 
oftense: Hosni with 23 points and 
seven rebounds, Dragisich 
pumped in 19 and a team-high 11 
rebounds, and Reiprish with an
other 15 points.
We can play really well at 
home, said Hosni. Now, if we 
can just learn to play like this on 
the road.
Im really pleased with the 
week. A big win over Point Park, 
a Slose loss to the UAA leaders on 
Friday and a good win today. I 
just hope we can keep it up, says
Tad Dockstader/Tartan dTUpIRnOpRUW evRpTI 
Freshman guard Michael Hosni leans in to attempt the shot.
IM SPIRIT NIGHT
The Intramural Department 
will be holding Intramural Spirit 
Night on February 20, when the 
varsity basketball teams host 
their season finales against the 
University of Rochester. The In
tramural Department will be 
awarding trophies to the teams 
that display the greatest fan sup
port during the games.
Any intramural organization 
with more than 10 members is 
eligible to participate.
Although the Intramural Spirit 
Night has no bearing on the over
all intramural standings, the In
tramural Department encourages 
all groups to come out and sup
port the Tartan basketball teams.
IM HOCKEY SCHEDULES
In IM floor hockey, the only 
schedule currently finalized at the 
time of publication is the Monday 
minors schedule. Please look to 
see if your team is playing today; 
if not, the full schedule will be 
posted today in the IM office or on 
the IM bulletin board.
MONDAYS SCHEDULE
(All games will be played in Thistle 
Hall.)
6:30 pm
Pioneers vs. Lost Boys 
7:30 pm
Pika vs. Beta Mad Dogs 
8:30 pm
Pilam A vs. AEPi 
9:30 pm
Navy A vs. Road Kill
Wingen. University on Friday and SPORTS IN SEASON
The Tartans will be on the road Brandis University on Sunday, 
this week beginning at Thiel Col- The Tartans final home game Floor Hockey 
lege on tomorrow night. The will be against the University of Commissioners 
weekend will see them at Suffolk Rochester next Wednesday. MajorsMike Grzywinski, 521-
IM News
8977
IntermediateBillVeltri,x5300 
Minors  Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4084
Games will begin today; please 
check the IM bulletin board for 
complete game schedules. Since 
schedule spots are limited, please 
make sure to show up at assigned 
matches.
Bowling
Commissioner 
Kris Pasqualin, x5978 
The Beer Hunters won the In
termediate championship, and 
KDR won the minors champion
ship.
Chess
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Please play all matches as 
scheduled and report scores to 
the commissioner. Team stand
ings will be posted on the IM 
bulletin board.
Darts
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Please play all matches as 
scheduled and report all scores to 
the commissioner.
B ackgammon
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. Please 
report all winning scores to the 
commissioner.
Bridge
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335
Basketball
Commissioners
MajorsMike Grzywinski, 521- 
8977
Intermediate  Buddy Feitt 
x3947
Minors  Sujit Bhattacharya 
x4084
Women Only  Kris Pasqualin 
x5978
Team standings are printed on 
the IM bulletin board and in The 
Tartan.
Faculty-Grad Volleyball
Commissioner 
Charles Yount, x7113 
Matches will be played on Sun
day evenings from 6:30 to 11 pm. 
Please check IM bulletin board 
for team standings.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Pinochle
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Entries are due Thursday, Feb
ruary 21, at 4:30 pm in the IM 
office. Please watch the IM bulle
tin board for game schedules and 
team standings.
Handball
Commissioner
E.J. Birdy, x2214 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm at the IM office.
Wrestling
Commissioner 
Bill Cheeseman, x8332 
Entries are due February 21 at 
4:30 pm.
Water Basketball
Commissioner 
Tom Fabian, x8471 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm. Please sign up for prac
tice sessions on the schedule 
posted on the IM bulletin board.
Compiled By 
JASON McDONALD
Ice Hockey club finds talent in graduate students
RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
\ lea hockey is not something the aver
age person takes up one day. On the 
contrary, it is a sport that is practiced 
throughout a lifetime starting at an early 
age.
! This is probably why Carnegie Mellons 
ice hockey club has some farmed talent 
on i&$ squad.
 According to senior captain Dennis 
irey, CMU ice hockey has had a few
f
'aduate students start for it every year, 
rey remembers when there were 
graduate players from outstanding pro
grams such as the University of Michigjai,\ and the University of Toronto. This 
yjear. Tom Sullivan (second year in CS),
Eric Galis (first year GSIA), Mark Li 
(first year GSIA), and coach Dave Collins 
(doctorial in ECE) are all graduate stu
dents who play on the team.
Two graduate students have started to 
play in the front line this semester. Galis, 
a first year GSIA student, plays left 
wing. Galis played varsity hockey for 
two years at the University of Notre 
Dame, until he was injured by an elbow 
to the eye in an IM football game. He 
notices playing a club sport is different 
from varsity. If I have to study, its no 
big deal. One practice a week... is nice, as 
far as time constraint goes, Galis said. 
He is also quick to praise his other two 
line members. With me, Ed [Kilduff], 
and Mark [Li] weve got one of the best 
lines in the league.
if I have to study, its no big deal. One prac
tice a week ...is nice, as far as time con
straint goes, 
 graduate student Eric Galis
Li is also a first year GSIA student who 
plays right wing. Li started skating when 
he was five years old and started playing 
hockey when he was seven. He briefly 
played junior varsity hockey at Cornell 
University and later played intramural 
hockey. After getting his undergraduate 
degree, he worked for three years in 
Ithaca and played in a college-level
hockey league called Sky Rink. Every
body from investment bankers to garage 
mechanics played in this league, Li said.
Li likes the freedom of playing in a club 
instead of on a varsity team because he 
did not have to play until this semester. 
The extra time has given him a chance to 
settle into GSIAs grueling first year.
Ice hockey also has its benefits for Li.
Playing hockey is a good way to get 
away from school, he said. Hockey also 
makes Li use his time more efficiently. 
One of the biggest benefits may be the 
feeling he gets when playing. Hockey... 
requires time and commitment.... If Im 
not playing somethings missing.
With this newly formed front line, CMU 
has an outside chance of making the 
playoffs even with its 1-6 start. Penn 
State, Slippery Rock, and Allegheny 
College are all in front of Carnegie Mellon 
with Allegheny holding the last playoff 
spot. Even with 8 points we may make 
the playoffs, Frey said. Theres going to 
be an interesting finish to the season. 
Theres no doubt about that. The team 
could slip in if things go their way and its 
farmed talent comes through.
NHL division races tighten
; Standings in the Patrick Divi
sion are still unchanged as the 
1;990>^-91 NHL season rapidly ap
proaches the playoffs.
; Th Pittsburgh Penguins are a 
littleapprehensive when playing 
aNvay from home ice these days. 
They have lost three straight and 
six of their last eight while on the 
road. This is bad news for Pitts
burgh fans because the Penguins 
play 14 of their remaining 25 
games in other arenas.
1 The New Jersey Devils have 
caught fire now that two key 
players, left wing Brendan 
Shanahan and defenseman Bruce 
river, are back from injuries. 
The Devils have won three 
straight, including a 2-1 victory 
ovef t!he Calgary Flames in which 
goalie Chris Terreri gave a strong 
performance. Its time for the 
Philadelphia Flyers to start 
watching their backs  the Dev
ils are coming.
; The Boston Bruins are making 
a; run at the Chicago Blackhawks 
for the top in the NHL. They trail 
tjie Hawks by just two points, 
with a total of 72 for the season. 
Montreal has also turned up its 
l$vel of play. The Canadiens are 
j^st four points behind the Bruins 
afrd are playing excellent hockey, 
doming down the wire, it looks as 
if the' Adams Division will once 
aSgaiif be a showdown between
THE PUCK 
STOPS HERE
by Allan Bourdius
the Bruins and their alter-ego 
from Montreal. The Buffalo Sa
bres are in another slump. They 
have fallen one point behind the 
Hartford Whalers into fourth 
place.
The Norris Division standings 
have pretty much remained con
stant as well. Chicago is still in 
first place of this division. St. Louis 
is trying to catch them, and they 
are having more success as of 
late. The Blues have closed to 
within three points of the 
Blackhawks with a total of 71. 
Over the past three weeks, the 
Blues have made up six points on 
the division leader. The Detroit 
Red Wings are far back in third 
place with 55 points. Minnesota 
and Toronto round out the bot
tom of the division.
The Los Angeles Kings are 
lengthening their lead in the 
Smythe Division. They are ahead 
of the Calgary Flames by five
points. The Edmonton Oilers are 
straining to catch them. If they 
have a strong last month, it could 
be a two-way race for second place. 
Currently, the Flames are on a 
slide and the Oilers are picking 
up speed. The Winnipeg Jets are 
still in fourth place of the Smythe 
Division. The Vancouver Canucks 
dont seem to have fixed anything 
by changing the man behind the 
bench. The Canucks are just 1-3 
under interim coach and General 
Manager Pat Quinn, who replaced 
Bob McCammon a week ago.
In other NHL news, Edmonton 
goaltender Grant Fuhr has been 
reinstated to the National League 
League after serving five months 
of a one-year suspension for drug 
abuse.
The future of the NHL in Pitts
burgh is not looking very good. It 
was rumored in Pittsburgh last 
Friday that the DeBartolo Corpo
ration might try to sell the Pitts
burgh Penguins to cover losses 
incurred by the recent recession. 
If the Penguins are sold, the buy
ers would be bound by an agree
ment with both the city of Pitts
burgh and Allegheny County to 
keep the Penguins playing at the 
Civic Arena until the 1995-96
Allan Bourdius is a sophomore 
applied history major.
"AIDS IN THE '90s:
NEW HOPE, 
GREATER
. CHALLENGES"
Dr. Richard P. Keeling, M.D.
Dr. Keeling is nationally recognized as a leading authority on HIV infection and is chairman of 
the National AIDS Network Board of Directors. His presentation will address the specifics of 
HIV infection and will touch on cultural issues, sexuality and interpersonal communication.
Wednesday, February 20,1991 
Mellon Institute, second floor auditorium
10:00 a.m. Dr. Richard P. Keeling
"AIDS in the '90s: New Hope, Greater Challenges"
11:15 a.m. Speaker from the Pittsburgh AIDS Task Force 
"The Personal Impact of HIV Infection"
For further information, please call x2075 or x2157 
Sponsored by the Division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a AA -iGslnsf xccxx,
Carnegie Mellon track stars keep pace with Division I
By NATALIE M. GESMOND
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU mens and womens 
track teams competed in the West 
Virginia University Invitational 
Saturday. The Tartans sent seven 
men and three women to compete 
with about 400 to 500 runners 
from Division I, II, and III schools 
aCross the country.
I didnt expect anyone to place, 
said womens Head Coach Dario 
Donatelli. Junior Carolyn Lowe 
qualified for the NCAA Nationals
for the indoor and outdoor 5000 
meter race. Lowe placed second 
overall with a time of 17:27. It 
was the most pain Ive ever been 
in [from a race], said Lowe. I 
stayed behind the leader and she 
took me through. She was a very 
good runner. Sophomore Brad 
Shapiro said, Personally, I 
thought that was probably the 
best race Ive ever seen anyone 
run since Ive been at Carnegie 
Mellon. It was an incredible race 
and I was really impressed with 
her performance. I think she ran
better than anyone, including 
herself, expected. Lowe plans to 
take a rest from the 5000 meter 
until Nationals.
Sophomore Laura Sibley ran in 
the 3000 meter race. She finished 
in 11:15, a five-second improve
ment for her personal best.
In the mens competition, 
sophomore Shawn Pempel ran in 
the half-mile event with a time of 
2:03.3  this was also his per
sonal best. Shapiro also ran the 
mile with a time of 4:24. I was 
happy with it [the race], said
Shapiro. There were three dif
ferent heats in the one mile event 
and I was placed in the slow heat 
of the race. I was hoping to run in 
the fast heat to run a better time, 
and being in the slow heat, I took 
the lead from the very start while 
everyone else trailedme. Its tough 
to lead the race. I was pleased 
with my tactics in the race, but I 
wanted to run a better time. 
Shapiro feels confident of placing 
in the top three at the UAA 
Championships in Chicago and 
possibly winning the event.
With championships approach
ing, the team anxiously awaits 
the recovery of injured runners 
senior Tim Berger, juniors John 
Byrnes, and Russ Shorkey. When 
they return, the distance team 
expects to be much more solid. A 
definite event to look out for is the 
1600meter relay team, which has 
steadily improved throughout the 
season. About six different run
ners have been running it in the 
past and everyone has been con
sistent. The relay team, consist
ing of Pempel, senior Jeff Illian,
and freshman Jarrod Sikett (the 
fourth runner is yet to be decided) 
will be competing at the champi
onships.
As far as the overall perfor
mance of the team at WVU, 
Donatelli said, We had some 
pleasant surprises... some people 
ran really well. The mens and 
womens teams will be competing 
at the Robert Morris College Invi
tational this Saturday. Robert 
Morris will be our last big test 
before the UAA Championships 
in Chicago, Donatelli said.
IM Scoreboard
awKePahhkIGGv>5sOUURU$ cGpnmoy,5>QPQ w>.MRTUGGI,RO
jauswJDJ>5m,yGpnmgg PGmN.5wGmNGU5>
Gpm.>PSGpm XR P>.DIVISION GKmKKm wgWTf, Ti TgTWUm>5
QRIp & cmpGI.>DIVISION C8gmpiTTpGv IRoygmfGI,>.ZTT a.>wRW PmO >5
jmgoTN, Tf&5>cMla Gpm.>dSmIgRG jmpTO,5>sOUURUW jGU>5
aPu5>aPu.>DIVISION CQGgImN5>
ha aggxwpmI,55PSGpm XR .>aPJ3uGpm gTTK,>.DIVISION L
MGUGpImpTI,55ITpSGISTTv Ti Qmvm55wae hRTU,5uwSRK Ti 8TTg,>.QTSGIpf QRUT,mOI,.>
sOU wae55dGUpION>5cGp MJ>5aPu a5.. R
wtMa wpmI, jwJ05DY lTTK e4oSmUWG>5u3mIRG,>5DIVISION HhTr MT,p5R6
kwJa05GppGI uii QGmv>.QPQ >.MRym5>PSGpm XJ X>5b
kwJa '910.lTNGnTf wSTKKRUW DGprTIy 0>IRoy hmfGI,>R
tK & JU>.DIVISION DDIVISION DwoOv jO,,Gg,>>
Gpm MTUf e4KIG,,.>MRgmN a.>Tggf sTWGI,>>DIVISION M
lUGS,aSplgGSDaEY a5>apSgGpRo wOKKTIpGI,.5DaEY d>5Gpm mv QTW,5>
JWUTImUoG5>aPu w8M,55jGoS e5>
DIVISION AQt a>5cGm,Gg,>5DIVISION UMJ agKSm QGgpm55
kQJaPu.>kmIvGU cGm,Gg,>5MSR wgmNNm mNNm>.wRWPmO a.>wtMa wgmNNGI,>5
PSGpm XR a.0aRI wae>.KQs5>ZTT >5
mIoImrgGI,50DIVISION EwOv,OoyGI,>5
OoyGp IRWmvG55jJDuswkIGGU aoG,.>aMSRu>5dleww
lTI,GNGU05a,pSNmpRo,.5Kwa QImWTU,>5PIT1mU, .>
QPQ a0.DIVISION AaPu u3GI ZTT55MSR KmK a5>
wae MSR wgmNNm mNNm0.QR,pmUp PSOUvGI5>MmpIRoRm wKmIITr>5DIVISION JPIT1mU, a>>
PSGpm XJ cSmgG,5>PTIUmvT>.DaEY 5>MRgmN a>>
DIVISION BlmIv 8ITN PSG YmIv51GgWRmU,5>MRgmN >>
Gpm woOv,.0Gpm tUvTUG55DIVISION Fgmoy smRU>>PSGpm XR>5
aQ sRUWGI,10Kwa PRWGI,u.awa a.>Qt >5tww dmIUGWRG>:%
DRoy$, Tf,55jI6 wTipGG$, aggxwpmI,5>wSTTpGI,>5jokRgg 2>,1
hTIv, Ti QOUy00DIVISION BGRg,pGRU TNnGI,.5[Phi Kap A tied Trojans A Ynot reflected
MSR KmK05MSR KmK.>KmKKm wgWwpmI, & dIG,oGUp,>.DIVISION Kin standings.]
Interested in Broadcasting Sports?
WRCT Sports is looking for people to help 
with football, basketball, and buggy 
coverage, as well as to help produce a 
weekly call-in talk show.
No experience is necessary. And it isnt a 
big time-killer.
Call x4617 for more information.
SPORTS
CARMELU
Classifieds
Housing
Frick Park Furnished effi
ciency (3rd floor). $300 includes 
gas and laundry. Newly remod
elled. Non-smoking. Quiet grad 
student/post doc. 371-0444.
South Oakland 5 bedrooms &
2 bedrooms furnished. New bath 
and kitchen, W/W, washer/drier. 
All utilities included. 683-6108. 
(304)599-4798.
1/2 Block from CMU  huge, 10- 
room, 2-story apt., (2500 sq.ft.) 5 
Bedrms, 2 Livingrms,(22ft x 17ft
& 35ft x 14ft), 2 Bathrms, kitchen, 
diningrm, small office, sun porch, 
garage, storm windows, 1 floor 
air-conditioned, washer, dryer. 
Available May. $1800 & utilities. 
Call 521-9441 after 8 pm.
Short Term  Shadyside Inn 
Apartment Suites. Elegantly 
furnished, well appointed, studio
1 &2 bedroom suites, fully 
equipped kitchen. Includes free 
cable (HBO), phone, parking, 
linens. One block to Walnut Street 
shops. From $41 per day, monthly 
basis. Daily, weekly, & monthly 
rates available. 441-4444.
Housemate wanted for Shadyside 
Apartment, ASAP. $288 & utils/ 
month. Fireplace, kitchen, cable, 
own room. All welcome. Call 268- 
8349, 7-11 pm.
Jobs
Overseas Opportunities  Two
year positions in developing 
countries. Citizenship/degree 
required. All expenses paid. 
Excellent benefits  loan defer
ment/grad school assistance. Call 
Gwen Allen, Peace Corp Rep 648- 
7424.
Seeking 10 assertive marketing 
managers for key positions in 
rapidly expanding Pittsburgh 
office. Call Lily @369-0176/ 
business or 621-4209/home.
Fast Fundraising Program: $1000 
in just one week. Earn up to $1000 
for your campus organization. Plus
a chance at $5000 more! This 
program works! No investment 
needed. Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext.
50.
Summer Jobs Available  
housepainting in Squirrel Hill/ 
Shadyside area. Work with fellow 
college students. Training provided. 
Opportunity for advancement into 
management. Starting at $5.00/hr. 
Work 35-40 hrs/week. Call Rick 
Seeger 1-800-343-0303. Have some 
fun and catch some sun.
Get your dream jobs now! 100s of 
address/tel.#s of jobs open in 
Paradise. Calif/Fla/Natl Parks/ 
Cruise/Rafting for spring/summer. 
Have a paid vacation. Call 1-900- 
226-2644. $3/min.
Healthy women ages 18-37 (34 for 
smokers) needed for oral contracep
tive study at Magee Womens 
Hospital. One year commitment. 
Reimbursement. For details call 647- 
4259 (Mon.-Fri.)
Rewarding summer jobs/intemships at developmental camp for 
children/teens with physical disabili
ties. Counselors, Art Director, 
Lifetime Leisure Coordinator, 
Nature/Tenting Director, WSI, 
Lifeguard, Maintenance, Kitchen 
Director/Assistant, Cooks. Salary, 
room/board. No experience needed 
for counselors. Call Fem RowleyKelly, Spina Bifida Association of 
Western Pennsylvania at 1-800-2- 
HELP-US.
Services
Abortion, morning after treatment. 
Free pregnancy testing, supportive 
atmosphere. Birth control, VD 
testing, men and women. Call 661- 
8811. Allegheny Reproductive.
Heading for Europe this summer? 
Jet there anytime for $160 with 
Airhitch(r)(reported in NY Times and 
Let's Go!) Airhitch(r) 621-7700.
Study Abroad in Australia : 
Information on semester, summer, Jterm, Graduate, and Internship 
programs. All programs under 
$6000. Curtain University, 1-800- 
878-3696.
***Low Student, Faculty 
Fares***AYH Passes*** 
EurailPasses*** TravelBooks*** 
All to be found at Forum Travel. 
Visit us at 4608 Winthrop St. (off 
South Craig) or call us at 681- 1
4099.
Caribbean  $189 for Spring 
Break! Why freeze here when for 
only $189 you can be stretched out 
on the sands of the sunny Carib
bean or Mexican coast for a week? 
R/t air. SUNHITCHtm 621-7700.
Wake-n-Bake!! Spring Break 91!! 
Jamaica/Cancun from $459.00! ! A 
week of fun and sun! The hottest 
destinations 1-800-426-7710.
Adoption
We are a happily married couple 
seeking to adopt. Private adoption 
is a compassionate and perfectly 
legal way to show your love for 
your child. We will be a milk & , 
cookies Mom and a Little League. 
Dad. We promise a full and happy 
life for a child. We are easy to talk 
to. You can meet us if you want to. 
Call collect 421-836-4754.
Miscellaneous
Stop buying expensive bottled 
water! We provide bottle quality 
water for under- 3 cents per gallon, 
free 5 day trial! Call Lilly 369- 
0176.
Is the fear of rejection crippling 
your love/social life? Learn how to 
cope with it using the methods of 
Cognitive Psychotherapy. 32-page 
book by psychologist for $5 to 
3WP-C1, P.O. Box 81033, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217.
Shadyside Book Exchange  
Credit for quality paperbacks. 
Thousands of half-price paper
backs on all subjects. 5815 
Ellsworth Avenue. Phone 363- ,, 
4426.
Please send Classifieds to The .... 
Tartan, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon. 
University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
Call 268-2111 for more informa
tion.

---------------------------------------------------

'Valertene 4. *Vox
Happy 6 months (offi
cially) and one year (unof
ficially)!
I love you!
 Heidi
cant imagine what 
my life would be like 
without you. ,
All my love, yS 
Michael /
let me count the ways!! 
ummm ... well!??
D  (hot)
you still should eat pizza, 
with or without me. And 
Ill stop pestering you, 
OK?
My only desire is that you 
remember a few things.
 from someone whose 
clothing was once influ
enced by the force of grav
ity. (chuckle, please.)
Ellen,
You know I love you, and I 
like your family, but lets 
just elope!!!Happy two years (nine 
more days).
Did you think wed make
I Wuv U! 
Hucklebucky 
ooshy gooshy mushy 
I want your tushy 
Luv, Luv, Luv > 
Skunky punky 
puss y'
Rusty,
Im waiting for you to rock 
my world. Youre simply 
the best.
Love, me
P&L,
mi-mi-mi-mi-MI-MI-MIMI-MI!!!!!!!!! (Happy 
S. Valentines Day, guys!)
 the BIMBOS, 
\ M&L
Dear Kristine,
I love you so much. You 
are my best friend and the 
greatest sister. Im so glad 
you are mine.
Love, Mary Grace r
Big Fuzzy Rat,
I adore you!
Sometimes I feel words 
arent a strong enough 
expression of how I feel. 
Thats why Im goofy, 
just to have you tell me, 
you love me!
 Pain in your ass.
Yo Pistil ...
Bake me some bread 
Brew me some beer 
Use up all that yeast 
So we can get queer
... Love Stamen
KC,
I would not liken thee to 
a summers day 
Or a rose smelling oh so 
sweet.
Words of English cannot 
compete
With my feelings of the 
lines I say.
Through a thousand 
pages a million words 
could I seek 
Yes they could not de
scribe my heart.
How can I give a name to 
what is a part 
Of my life and soul, every 
day, every week?
Under skies so blue and 
nights black as coal,
You are across the world 
when you are away.
My mind begs and pleads 
to say,
Still I cower in fear 
When you and I are near 
I love you for everything 
you do, for you bring life 
to my soul.
 wine glasses
Butch: Dunno if you read 
this column but hey!
Sorry. I mean it.
Friends, still?
T.G. Reaper
Amanda E.
I think you are adorable. 
Are you available?
I want to meet you but I 
dont know what to say. 
What do ya say?
Dave,
Thanks for the best year 
of my life. I love you 
brown eyes!
Your Valentine Forever 
(and a day)
To the most wonderful 
TOILET I could have ever 
known. You mean the 
world to me. I love you!!!
Eskimo -
My SO, M:
You are sea; Im fish 
You are sun; Im tree 
Please hide me in your 
heart
Know Im living on your 
love.
 Your Baby, S.
Captain Kirk (Shadyside): 
Tired of Klingons at the 
office? The Romulanmentality during the 
mens study? Instead, 
meet with sane friends, 
pizza, flicks, trivia. Name 
the Stardate.
 Dr. Crusher 
(Dormont)
Its Grimmace 
Just letting you know that 
youre the best roommate 
and greatest friend. 
Thanks, Nanuk
Hey Morning Man!
Thanks for the great times 
and all of that silly stuff. 
Please stress the word 
silly. I love you More 
Than Words can say.
Ps-V:
Thank you for putting up 
with me for all this time.
I think this will work.
I wont let it not work. 
Citrus Fruit, Champagne, 
and Passion
Sounds fun, eh?
 S.B.
THE WOMAN:
If I had Snoopy sheets, 
would you love me?? 
from: the tape recorder
L-ski:
Thanks for everything 
Hero
Bolshevik,
They said it wouldnt last 
But it has for a long time 
Maybe too long, just kid
ding
Happy Valentines Day 
I LOVE YOU 
Love, Baby
To my little bambino, 
Thank you for the loving 
memories that weve 
shared thus far in our 
relationship. I hope that 
our good fortune of being 
together will last for a 
very long time.
Love, Your Little Pepito
Stamen 
iSi I 
PEACHY,
Thanks for the 
1.4 years. They have 
been very special to me. 
Lets make our life to
gether just as special. 
Happy Valentines Day. I 
Love You.
ICEMAN
Happy Valentines Day 
motard!! Youre the great
est!!
Just promise you wont 
take me to the Balcony 
ok??
love you, Pistil
Evil Twin Sebastian and 
StudMAN....
Meeting: Schenley Foun
tain around midnight with 
roses and yes, I will drive 
but not to the cemetery 
but I can only find you if 
you leave the lights on. 
Temptation Times Two
KCD,
Be my valentine, 
dammit!!!
Bogey,
Be my valentine
 A sort of stranger
Coleen,
Will you be my valentine?
 The Candyman
L.K. 
Much has changed since 
last year, but I still want 
to be your friend.
 Ed
RL12 Crew,
Happy Valentines Day!
 Kim
TRT,
Youre all I think about! 
Happy Valentines Day!
 SKIMO
S.L.B.,
I am no longer falling.
I am in love. Catch me, 
please ....
All My Love,
The boy in the window ....
Lisa L.,
Roses are red,
Violets are blue,
On this Valentines Day, 
No man should be without 
you ....
Happy Valentines Day!
Ode to Don,
Roses will always be 
red, Violets will always 
be blue, and I will never 
stop falling in Love with 
you.
 Alina 
P.S. Be my Valentine?
Yo  Ass Butt,
To redeem myself,
Have a happy, THTPF 
Valentines Day!
Boob-TIt.
Mr. February, 
I love you!
- Holga
Opuskova:
No I didnt forget the 
message.
The card, however, might 
be a little late ....
Love Ya  Now Smile.
To the guy with that really 
strange implement:
Ill bet youre hard at work 
right now, arent you?
And youre probably eating 
citrus fruit, too.
From your favorite (or one 
& only) Pseudo  V.
Kriss,
Happy 21st!!!! Have a 
great birthday, and happy 
Valentines Day, too.
Love, from me again  
your little sis.
To the mutant-lover:
Who needs a lover 
that cant be a friend 
Something tells me that 
Im the one youve been 
looking for
If you should ever see him 
again
Wont you tell him youve 
found someone who gives 
you more ....
If you feel this way, I have 
to say youre absolutely 
right. I realize more and 
more that you mean a lot 
to me ... Especially since 
youve stuck around for so 
long without getting com
pletely fed up. Thanks! 
Youre wonderful!
Love, the mutant.
Lski & CS,
Happy V-D! 
from your roomie from 
hell.
To my SNOOPY,
(and his sheets)
Have a Happy 
Valentines Day.
Love, J 
| -Happy Valentines Day, 
SUGARBEAR!!!
A,
Happy Valentines Day. 
Love Always, R.
P.S. Im Whipped Too!!
angel,
tho i dont say it often... 
i try to show it... 
i really do care, and i 
really do love you
 avec lamour
 sultan
rusty
i still lust after you.
(and i have that picture on 
my ceiling above my bed) 
lets do some gardening 
sometime ....
 quicksilver
bobo,
when you say anything, 
dont you mean anything 
subject to approval, revi
sion, and physical limita
tions?
hope this v-tines day is 
better than you last one.
luv, spud
Blue Eyes,
Happy Valentines day. I 
cant wait till when I see 
you smile again. I miss 
you and I love you.
Brown Eyes
To: You
I love your luscious lips, 
your beautiful eyes, 
your amazing tongue, 
the way you touch me, 
the way you kiss me, 
the way you excite me, 
but what I love most of all, 
is all of you.
From: Me
My KD,
What would you do for a 
Klondike bar?
Would you ... be my Valen
tine?
Maybe yes, maybe so, Ill 
still love you so....
 You dont have to guess 
who
Michael,
Happy Valentines Day, 
my love.
ToS:
This is how I express my 
happiness. I love you!
 M.
To all the women of 
Gurus harem:
Happy Valentines Day 
Quit screwing around too 
much. You are upsetting 
the master.
Love, Swine
P.S. Elephants arent
cute.
To my Misha,
The cuddliest and most 
loving valentine I could 
have ever wished for. 
Happy 2 1/2!!
XOXOXO
Your one and only 
K-woman!
Happy Valentines day, 
Cannibal!
Love, The Princess in 
Morewood
Twin,
Looks like we finally 
found each other at a 
good time. Happy 
Valentines Day!
Your princess sister
Laura Kay,
Be my Valentine!
I love you!
Steven J.
Happy Valentines Day, 
Matt!
Thanks for sticking by 
me.
Clux, I.
Mr. Muller:
How many women have 
been knocked out throw
ing themselves at your 
feet? Have a heart!
To the sisters and pledges 
of Chi-O:
Happy Valentines Day!
XOXO, Ilze
KCD 
Your radiance fills me 
with the energy I need to 
sustain myself. I desire 
the fulfillment that only a 
woman such as yourself 
can provide. I will always 
lust after you.
 Citrus
Heidi 
Back in May I never 
believed wed make it to 
Valentines Day  now I

---------------------------------------------------

\kr-neg'-e\

---------------------------------------------------

Professors Morel and Moses debate U.S. Gulf Policy,
The war in the Gulf has been raging now for four weeks, 
with a six-month prelude involving sanctions, hostages, and 
military force buildup. Questions about U.S. motivations and 
abilities have been continuously raised as the sands of time 
waft by, bringing more conflict and doubt. What is and has 
been the U.S. policy in the region? Why have our leaders made 
the decisions they've chosen? What will be the aftermath of 
this knid of policy decision-making?
The fact that energy is the driving force behind the modem 
markets of our world is well-documented. Oil is the primary 
form of energy used in these markets and, therefore, of greatest 
importance. In the first half of this century, the United States 
held considerable reserves of oil and was the leading producer. 
As late as 1950,55 percent of world crude oil production was in 
North America, with the U.S. supplying the lion's share. 
However, as U.S. production has fallen over the last half of the 
century, new regions of production have become increasingly 
important and, to some, vital.
Certainly, the leaders of the Western World, who are now 
committing troops and weapons to the Gulf theatre, have found 
that area of the world vital. In the words of Professor Russell 
Moses of the History Department, a nation should never go to 
war except to protect its vital interests. The United States in 
particular, with over three-hundred thousand troops in the 
region, has developed a policy based on the assumption that 
the Persian Gulf and its oil is vital.
In his book entitled, Arms and Oil, Bruce MacLaury said the 
following about the U.S. activity in the region:
"In the oil-rich Persian Gulf, a region crucial to the
world's security and economic health, the United States 
confronts major challenges to its military and diplo
matic skills. The Iranian revolution, the Soviet invasion 
of Afghanistan, and unpredictable turbulence have 
contributed to declining U.S. influence in the area. In 
the United States, military questions about force size 
and strategy have sparked controversy over the proper 
U.S. role in the Gulf.
The U.S. must worry about who gains control of 
the flow and price of oil, whatever the immediate 
effects of the situation may be."
The U.S. has been worrying about this situation since 
World War II, and has developed its present-day policy by 
passing through three stages. In the first stage, the U.S. sup
ported Great Britain as the Gulf "policeman". After the British 
policy change of the early 1970s, however, the U.S. entered into 
its second stage with the Nixon Doctrine and the close ties to 
Iran and the Shah. The U.S. felt that it could be most effective 
through indirect action in Gulf affairs.
After the Iranian Revolution and the Soviet invasion of 
Afghanistan which quickly followed, the U.S. entered its latest 
stage in Gulf policy with the declaration of the Carter Act. This 
act supported the use of "any means necessary" to ensure that 
no foreign power would dominate the Gulf. This policy may be 
the one which allowed President Bush to decide to actively 
participate in a Gulf War.
Professor Moses, however, disagreed with this active 
approach, and didn't consider the Persian Gulf as a vital 
interest. Instead, he suggested that our vital interests lie at
Table of Contents
Professors Morel and Moses debate U.S. Gulf Policy,
try to answer some questionspage 2
A Jewish perspective on the war:
more than a question of religion/, rnpage 4
Talking to a man in bluepage 6
A student veteran talks about serving overseas
? O opage 7
A Muslims Perspective on the Persian Gulf Warpage 10
An Israeli student talks about home, Israels criticspage 12
Do you feel a draft? The DCC can helppage 13
Local institute offers no credit, changes livespage 14
2 \kr-neg'-\

---------------------------------------------------

try to answer some questions
home. He affirmed that we will support democracy abroad by 
first supporting a stronger democratic tradition in the States.
According to Moses, "War is a clear representation of 
failure of policy," and suggested that we have not adequately 
used our diplomatic possibilities. He stated that we need to 
incorporate Hussein's interests with ours, and our interest is 
stability. Moses suggested that explicit support of an interna
tional forum to deal with Arab issues would have cut down 
Hussein's image as a true Arab leader and would have sup
ported our own interests.
Moses also asserted that the most important issue here is 
that the U.S. continues to exaggerate its influence and power.
He believes that, "the Soviets have really won the Cold War" 
because they realized that security begins at home. "Force is not 
a substitute for security."
Yet the U.S. has chosen to use force in its efforts to create a 
"new world order" in which democracy will rule. Professor 
Benot Morel of the Engineering and Public Policy and Physics 
Departments stated that the U.S. perception of its militarytechnical superiority is driving this policy in the region. Morel's 
information leads him to believe that the Iraqi military  
although originally supported by powers such as the U.S., 
France, and the Soviet Union  is not very different from 
traditional military forces except in number and organization. 
The U.S., on the other hand, has the military expansion of the 
1980s behind it, in the form of new technologies like guided 
weapons, night-seeing capabilities, and "all-weather" RADAR. 
Advanced systems include the AW ACS and Patriot missiles.
Morel stated that the main U.S. goals are to liberate Kuwait,
get Hussein out of power, and to keep U.S. casualties low at all 
cost - including continued bombing of Iraq, causing possibly 
unnecessary damage. He added that Iraqi needs to find lowtech solutions to counteract our high-tech weaponry, and 
pointed to the "suicidal" Iraqi raids on Khafji as proof that the 
Iraqis are desperately trying to show some sign of success.
Given the fact that we have technical superiority, Morel 
concluded that we will win the battle for Kuwait, but hinted 
that we may not succeed in removing Hussein.
Moses, on the other hand, concluded that the war will 
become larger, and that it may continue for more than one year. 
He went on to say that our goal of regional security will not be 
served, but that Iran will emerge as the pre-eminent regional 
power. He also contended that the Israelis may use nuclear 
weapons to help end the war.
The kind of world that will be found at the end of this war 
is far from certain, yet it is certain that the United States and its 
alHes are involved in a struggle which is only a part of the 
greater issues of national sovereignty, personal equity, and 
global harmony.
by Jim Vierengel 
Tartan Stafjzuriter
o 15C3U)c03CD  ( E z o_Q GS
03 TO (U _
,pg O
_cuo~oc
c(U U)<D 
 -Q
1945 1946
-Q
"Q)CU)
<
U
-C
o
o-oa.
oQ.O
_Q ~ Q3-t/) .s-s<^
f 8 93
194719481949
\kr-neg-\ 3
xt6w6 pITTK, gGm3G KTIGm

---------------------------------------------------

May 13,1947
Britain pulls out of Palestine.A Jewish perspective on the war:
May 14,1947
Israel proclaims ils indepen
dence.
1956  Suez-Sinai War
The war begins when Egypt 
nationalizes the Suez canal 
and prevents Israeli shipping.
1967  Six-day War
Israel is attacked by surround-1 
ing Arab countries, and 
subsequently takes the Sinai 
Peninsula, the Gaza Strip, 
Golan Heights, and the West : 
Bank. Israel refuses.to leave 
until an Arab-lsrael peace 
treaty is established.
October 1973 
Yom Kippur War
Arabs attack Israel on the high 
holy Jewish holiday. Israel 
later regained ils intial losses.
March 26,1979
Egyptian Prime Minister Begin 
Menachen signs a peace treaty 
annexing Golan Heights.
May 25,1979
Israel withdraws from Sinai. I 
June 9,1982
Israel attacks Lebanon in 
retaliation for an earlier PLO 
attack that critically wounded 
the Israeli ambassador.
March,! 984
Israel withdraws from LebaDifferent sects of Judaism have traditionally varied greatly in 
their reaction to events. In the strict sense, Jewish guidance 
comes from the law and interpretation of the Torah. However, 
as with most world religions, many Jews have modernized and 
'reformed/ While less observant Jews may not view the 
situation in the Persian Gulf according to the strict Torah 
interpretation, they still have special concerns, as Israel's public 
image has been under attack, as well as its land.
A Torah Interpretation
An observant Jew looks to the Torah during times of crisis as 
well as peace. The Torah, along with numerous writings of 
rabbis and sages, guide an observant Jew in how to dress, what 
to eat, how to behave, and even how to respond to the war in 
the Middle East.
According to Rabbi Slimuel Weinstein, a leader of the 
Chabad house on campus, "A number of Jewish writings dated 
about 2000 years ago state some of the things that are happen
ing." He explained that in a Midrash, one of the writings of the 
sages called Yalkutshimoni, "Rabbi Issac said that in the year 
that the Messiah is coming, Iraq will start bothering the country 
of Arabia." Of course, Iraq wasn't around 2000 years ago. The 
actual word is Paras, which means Persia, and is understood to 
mean Iran or Iraq.
Rabbi Shmuel went on to interpret that Arabia is going to ask 
advice from another country called Aram, which is understood 
to be America because it has very similar lettering. The Torah 
says this country of Iraq is going to "destroy the whole world," 
and then the people of the world will say "What are we going 
to do?"
"Clearly," Rabbi Slimuel says, "this is not a physical destruc
tion or there would be no people left to say 'Oh no.' This 
upheaval is something else. It could be oil, it could be eco
nomic destruction, it could be political, we don't know. It says 
the people will fall with their faces to the ground and have 
pains like birth pangs. At that point God is going to come and 
say, My Children,' meaning the Jews, 'What are you upset 
about? Everything I've done is for your sake and now is the 
time for your redemption/"
Rabbi Shmuel also cited a writing by Rabbi Shimon Bar 
Yochai in a handbook of Chabalah, Chabalah being the mystical 
or inner Torah. This passage describes a similar situation and
says after a three-month-long battle, God and the Messiah 
come. According to Rabbi Shmuel, these two point directly to 
the current events, but other places in Jewish writings hint at it.
"It is very interesting," says Shmuel, "[that Israel has] the 
most sophisticated mechanized army descending upon them, 
but it is being quiet for the first time since the creation of the 
state." Rabbi Slimuel parallels it to the parting of the Red Sea. 
"The Romans descended upon them, [they were divided as to 
what to do, but] Moses said 'God will come and fight for you 
and you will be silent', and then God split the sea."
"In our view, divine providence is controlling the situation 
right now," says Rabbi Shmuel. "Now, that's not to say we are 
going to be frivolous about the whole thing; clearly we are 
concerned. But the idea is that we should have a very positive' 
attitude about this." Sara Weinstein, his wife and also a leader 
of Chabad house added, "This is a time when happiness can 
help rather than a self-defeating attitude."
Rabbi Shmuel said, "This is a Torah perspective, and a 
number of Jews not looking at it this way may have different 
reactions."
Personal Links
According to Rabbi Joe, a leader of Hillel and an experienced 
college counselor, "First on a universal level, Jewish students 
are caught up in the same network of reactions as any other 
people. Then there is the question of Israel," he says. "Jewish 
people, our sense of destiny is very much tied in with Israel's.
"More and more Jewish students are stopping me on campus 
to say 'I'm reconsidering having a junior year abroad in a 
university in Israel/ or 'I want to spend a summer in a kibbutz.' 
They are saying 'I realize on an emotional level, when Israel is 
attacked, how deeply my Jewish identity is tied to Israel.'" He 
thinks ties between the American Jewish community and Israel 
will only grow stronger and more students will travel to Israel 
or participate in on-campus programs.
But action is not just in the future; Jewish communities all 
over the country have been helping to raise money for the 
homes and buildings that Scud missiles have destroyed. On
going activities in the Jewish community continue, but perhaps 
are intensified. In addition, new support and discussion 
groups-have sprung up. "At this hour in history," says Rabbi 
Joe, "the requests have been coming in more and more saying,
December, 1987 
The Palestinian uprising 
begins because of a lack of <i 
peace I realy.
wTOIoG9 PSG JUiTINmpRTU MgGm,G 
agNmUmob 500> GvRpRTU
-O
IT
-X5 Zx d 
ro u_ ro
g  TO6F ?E- 'o 6R=to
on F  C7)
I mz
oszO
T(T  
o 6eT 8g SI CDO 2T
u
<
t
>4TSI
Pu TT Y
CLOO
TxT
xowR
x[~ dhxu3 _Q on a) 
8T GD <i oCD +-1 ^ ni ai TU u XYI CD . o')
oTOCDJY
T
qo F 
A oC TO K3.2 -3 "5-
, A 6,
Lt lI h dh GD IO 
I
(D TO TT d
d ^ Bx 6e F u  d E
E  p
00u [2du
B <qx7 6=/&> > F
o+-J~o
toi_CD4->
toonCDUoCDszUItoCDCT)HZ3COCD-OCU4-Jcotoc.CD^oTO4-J
cCDpTOC'uoTOL_uTO-ucinog_DQ. CD OOETOHUCoCD-QDOCD-o
1945 1950 19511952 1953
4 \kr-neg'-\

---------------------------------------------------

more than a question of religion
'Lets get together and talk about the Persian Gulf.'"
Many Jewish students are also concerned about friends and 
family who live in Israel. "As I run into Jewish people," says 
Rabbi Joe, "many people are preoccupied with calling their 
friends and family in Israel and finding out if they're safe."
The Chabad house had a special Shabbat discussion about the 
Persian Gulf. Several of the students who attended it are now 
graduate students at CMU; they are Israelis who have been in 
the army and have close relatives in Israel. Sara Weinstein said, 
"In some ways it would be easier if they were there. It is very 
hard for them to sit aside and just wonder."
Political Link
American Jews and Jewish students also feel concerned about 
Israel's public image. According to Martin Raffel, director of 
the Israel Task Force, recent media reports have incorrectly 
suggested that Israel is asking for additional aid for continued 
restraint in the face of Iraqi missile attacks. The assumption 
came from discussions between Israeli Finance Minister 
Yitzhak Moda'i and Deputy Secratary of State Lawrence 
Eagleburger about U.S. assistance to Israel.
Israel requested approximately $3 billion in emergency 
military assistance. This need is the result of the physical 
damage caused by the Scud missiles and the cost of maintain
ing a heightened state of alert since Saddam Hussein's original 
threats to attack Israel. In addition, Israel asked for $10 billion 
over five years to assist with the absorption of Russian and 
Ethiopian immigrants who arrive in large numbers even as the 
war continues.
In addition to this recent publicity, the war has only irritated 
the problem of the Palestinian issue. Sadam Hussein has tried 
to draw parallels between Israel's occupation of the-West Bank 
and the Gaza Strip and his own annexing of Kuwait. Accord
ing to Rabbi Shmuel, "Anyone who says that [the situation is 
similar] has fallen prey to a very strong propaganda campaign 
of behalf of the Arabs for the past 20 years. Kuwait is an issue 
of aggression."
Rabbi Joe attributes some of the misconception to the termi
nology "occupying power." "I think that's mistaken terminol
ogy," he says, "Israel was attacked from the war of indepen
dence in '47 [forward] and it responded to a threat to its 
survival." The Israeli army had to go into the surrounding
territories because that's where the fighting took place, explains 
Rabbi Joe.
But even in the face of yet another threat to the Jewish 
homeland, Jews remain hopeful. Rabbi Joe pointed out that 
Israel's humanitarian work continues. "On the day the missiles 
landed," he said, "2100 Soviet Jews and 250 Ethiopian Jews 
touched down in Israel."
Weinstein related a story of her cousin's marriage which was 
to take place in a Tel Aviv hotel five minutes from the spot 
where the first missile landed. They called the Labubbich rabbi 
to ask him if they should change it to a different location 
outside the city. He said not to change it, that more people 
should come and it should be a truly happy occasion because 
having a defeating attitude would only help this enemy achieve 
what he wants to do. She said, "From what I heard, it was an 
historic wedding, everybody brought their gas masks, and it 
was beautiful." Rabbi Shmuel added, "At the very end of the 
wedding, right after the final blessings, that's when the sirens 
went off."
by Jennifer Kerstein 
Tartan Contributing Editor
Letters and packages for Jewish troops can be 
sent to the only Jewish chaplin in the Gulf: 
Captain Ben A. Romer 
378-60-3165 
HHD 724 Support Battalion 
Operation Desert Shield 
APO New York 09315
 ^5(d [ Vj  Pu F t_ Q
Xx a (x oI Q RJ
JH   o ) 6.. )x T
HZ _ I TO
g.S Qj
.a [ 1wxT
U ^C V . Q-P tJ ^ ofc Sc5 x[ 5Bxx
Vx ogH5
CD -C 
t u ^ E % U I <D ? r r 55
U o5=.. 
31xo S< 
: ? < a) U
NcCD
m < 
^ * oa-u
11
o
CD TO
re
CD13X>
iCDOQCD>I/)(DCD Pu t  CDo -4~ E ^F ug 7S j- F 
~ D <  u 
ai-O 
0.2 
RxT TR c.E
.2 Q_
c o_ <u 
T U-u
3 to .E
6 [6
U
qu TT OJ CD-M -U TO CD lj 
CD <D
! CD 13 V 5Y 6 TO
N TO CD O 
Q Q u UO OO c
D_ a
<u iI CTl 
 o TU O u-J 
= .
CL.SiPu uu 55 J
u ht [2x Pu 
[xNx gT B e at o uh a
3 ZD CD C
CD. ID4* a cmCDE cCD V IS
c
c
CD>CD O  U < * R P
1954 1
Ml
m
&956 1957 1958
\kr-neg'-\ 5

---------------------------------------------------

Talking to a man in blue
Ed. Note Colonel 
John E. Stecklow is a 
commander and instructor 
at the University of 
Pittsburgh's Air Force 
ROTC program. While he 
was not permitted to discuss 
Operation Desert Storm or 
relevant military strategy, 
he was able to grant an 
interview on the more local 
effects of the war.
~UoO
CD a -a
hh6NP6F 
11 T
.S^-g
pTE
-> Im u Q
JSu
CDCDcn
13
qm
ri
CDa;R2u
pia
How are things going here?
First of all, the mood of the cadets is very much on the 
upswing. Basically, they're fully behind the operation, and 
flying over there. They think it's for the right reasons and like 
the U.N. says, [this is about] the invasion of a democratic 
country that was taken over unlawfully. I also think they're 
behind it because Saddam Hussein was given every opportu
nity to withdraw from Kuwait. He did not take that opportu
nity, and our operations that are going on over there are 
basically following the U.N.'s guidance. .
Do you come in contact with a lot of cadets?
I'm the commander of the unit, and the the AFG100 (sopho
more) instructor; I teach Air Force History. They're actively 
interested in what's going on over there. They're like [the 
officers above them]; they've been advised not to comment on 
[the war] because of the false impression that because you're 
wearing a uniform, you have extra knowledge that other 
people don't. And they don't. Our cadets are just students here 
on campus, and they've learned a little bit of history, but they 
have no knowledge of ongoing operations because it's on a 
need-to-know basis. You might have security clearance like I 
have, a top secret clearance, but I am not given information that 
I do not need to know, for security reasons. So for ongoing 
operations, we listen to CNN and the newscasts here; we are 
dealing with the same kind of information as the majority of the 
professors and students here who teach history.
Have some of the courses cadets are taking here changed?
No; it's a very structured course, and as time goes by, about 
every three or four years, we'll come up with an updated 
section in Air Force History; right now we're taking a look at 
war and what has gone on in the past five years and become 
history. We teach it as we get the facts. This probably won't 
come into light for another couple of years to be added to the 
course. We comment on what happens from the reports in the 
newspaper, but basically all we can do is comment. We don't 
try to conjecture and again, we don't want to give the cadets a 
false impression that we know what's going on. All we'd be 
doing is what the generals overseas are saying, we'd just be 
guessing what we don't know.
Are some of the cadets you've worked with from last year or even last 
semester over there now?
Probably not. Most of our cadets that graduated last year 
have still not come onto active duty. Sometimes it takes up to a 
year for our cadets to go on active duty. You have to imagine it; 
the majority of ROTC cadets graduate at the same time, and 
that's in the spring. We can't bring them all on to active duty 
because there aren't enough jobs that are open at the same time.
o *= O c cO GD RZ Pu o2[ oO x[ V-  o
co
4-TON ^ > U 
Pu h2 C o
u
piCL
pT 2
go
TO O 
. TO ^
TO
c
t
 c 
46gdt xj2c +-> _2 2 t Pu p2 pR YAI E 8O 4 M GD K 5E cu -Q j-aj o ^
</i Q_ TOu
=3
C
CD "OU <Dpx Pu iY
Pu q
CD>
qu $TU = 
c C c TO CD O
So we spread them out over the next year, and most of our 
cadets, our new lieutenants get a part time jobs for that period. 
It averages anywhere from six months to a year to come one 
active duty. We have to wait until schooling dates are open....
For instance, if someone has gone to pilot training, there 
has to be not only a spot in the pilot training class, but a va
cancy in the squadron somewhere along the line for him to fill. 
So it's a snowball effect, you always have to get in line. And it 
takes a while for a person to work down.
Do you get a lot of questions about the war?
Sure, there are a lot of people who are interested in what's 
going on in Saudi Arabia and again, they see we wear the blue 
suit [the uniform] and they believe that here in the ROTC arena 
the believe that we're given extra knowledge and are likely 
candidates to give reports. If for some reason, we conjecture 
something, and we happen to be right because of our past 
military training, it presents a defect or weakness in our 
system, or something we saw in the Iraqi system that would 
allow them to correct it.
So it's the same problem as having military information on CNN.
Exactly. We have to be careful that what we discuss doesn't 
bear on the current operation and give aid and comfort to the 
enemy. I'm sure that people who watch CNN, who see General 
Horner and some of our other generals who are over there, 
they're not happy with what they hear because they want the 
whole story. I'd hate to be the one who divulged information 
that cost a GI's life. We're very careful not to put our GI's at 
risk; there's nothing more disheartening than having to tell a 
parent that their child has been killed.
Is there anything else you'd like to say?
We've watched the peace movement around us, and I 
guess that's the best thing about being an American; everybody 
has the right to voice their opinion. But when your country and 
the leaders of your country deicde to call a force of action, 
whether you're a Republican or a Democrat, when a force of 
action has been decided on, everybody supports the decision. I 
think the majority of Americans have seen that we have given 
Hussein every opportunity in the world to pull out, and put 
everything back to a status quo, and he has not taken that 
opportunity. We all back our people and our troops over there 
and support the decision.
by Alison Green 
Tartan Magazine Editor
S.b
O w TO ~ CD - CD 
u  P
~o ^
 X ^ Ifl C L TO TO nns Vul ce atE <o =  5U R= R rRgTo w   [62M Ix
"OCDcc "O
3 8 owr
LL DH-RR p d'PF<DC4-,-ucL>-u>.bD
TO5_Qt^=Jp=3-t"OiS>::^'0!-LL0!i3^ co 2 pi O n U 5 U - 5 cZ c c c <i-UuTOD5r^OQj>(2 o 5 >' H- - U U ' 1 TOC.t I .bo_U TO C i cm U _C , Q__Q u Q_ O i .E O U- U i ilLU T.E ^
2 C CD -'" O w
C 4- o ~u O TO O CD
CD pT RYd dPHx
$7Rdc>,oU
at D-Q
oxQ[xexQpR dm ^ r 0) 5 r TO 5 P w A
o
Xj Pu CD X!^  
6Q$Mt d d ^ 
IIRn$xURddQdruI>
PuUPuUPuxI)1dPud TO TO > ir- O H C m w i . > Qi CD  m
V t F J $Pu V b < [2<
E
c
S-SF 6.
V u
1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
6 \kar-neg'-e\

---------------------------------------------------

xERGpUmN cmI
A student veteran talks about serving overseas
The current situation in the Middle East reminds John Reoli 
of the time he spent on an aircraft carrier during the Libyan 
raid in the spring of 1986. From 1983 to 1989, he served in the 
Navy as a cryptologic technician (linguist) specializing in 
Russian. During his five-year tour of duty, he sailed on the 
Mediterranean and Black Seas. Now a junior in CMU's English 
Department, Reoli looks at the war from the perspective of a 
veteran and college student.
'The press has been effectively sanitized," he said about 
recent news coverage of the war. 'They've been observant of 
Saudi Arabian culture and rules, but more importantly, they've 
allowed themselves to report in a manner that says almost 
nothing of relevance. To 'sanitize' something, in the intelligence 
community, means to make it absent of any classified informa
tion. In a journalistic sense, it means to talk a lot without saying 
anything meaningful."
Training and experience as a member of the military 
intelligence community give him a unique perspective on the 
exchange of information during international conflict. After 
years of sifting through intelligence data for 12 to 16 hours at a 
time, Reoli finds media coverage of the war lacking in sub
stance. He also senses a similar reticence on campus, "not just 
administrative silence, but professorial silence. Most of the 
professors here remember [the experience of war]," said Reoli. 
"They lived it. But most don't want to talk about it."
Looking back on his experiences while serving in the Navy, 
Reoli recalled how he began a tour that ran the gamut between 
administrative and redundant duties and fascinating positions 
at sea. "I was asleep on my couch, and a recruiter called," said 
Reoli with a smile. After conversations with the recruiter and 
positive responses from friends who were serving at the time, 
Reoli decided to enlist.on the condition that he could be a 
linguist.
He spent from February 1984 to February 1985 at the 
Defense Language Institute in Monterey, California. Then he 
went to cryptologic school in St. Angelo, Texas from March 
until June. "It was a great experience, learning Russian," Reoli 
said. He was then given top-level clearance and stationed on a
naval base in Rota, Spain, in August. "That's why a lot of 
people go into the Navy  to travel," said Reoli.
Reoli's first ship was the USS Coral Sea (CV-43), a small 
aircraft carrier no more than 1,000 feet in length. 'The first three 
weeks were interesting," he said. 'The remaining three months 
were a nuisance. The air smelled like jet fuel, the water tasted 
like jet fuel. It got old very quickly." Naval linguists work 
temporary assigned duties; they go wherever they're needed, 
and tend to spend only short periods of time on any one ship.
Just before the Libyan raid, Reoli was assigned to an 
aircraft carrier headed for the area. When the action began, the 
carrier was placed on General Quarters (heightened alert), and 
Reoli was on duty in an intelligence-gathering space on the 
ship. "It was exciting," he said. Later, he served on submarines, 
which had always fascinated him.
One year before the end of his tour, in December 1988,
Reoli was stationed in Sinop, Turkey. The army base in Sinop, 
among other differences, was smaller than the naval base in 
Rota. "We [the Naval personnel] were isolated, we were treated 
strangely [by army personnel]," he said, "and the food was 
horrible, just wretched." The base was located on top of a 
dormant volcano. The town was just below the base. Reoli often 
went down with some friends and spent some time there. The 
base wasn't far from the capital, Ankara, and Reoli also trav
elled there on occasion.
Now that he's back in this country, his tour of duty over, he 
considers the possibility of a draft. He wants to know what 
would happen to financial aid for students who choose not to 
go. "In the event that Bush would stop federal student funding 
for draft dodgers, is the administration of this university 
prepared to stick by its 'aid blind' policy?
"It makes sense for those who go to want to be there," said 
Reoli. 'The government doesn't have the right to order; they 
have the right to ask."
by Alison Green 
Tartan Magazine Editor
1964 1965 1966 1967 1968
\kr-neg'-e\ ~J

---------------------------------------------------

dT
CURRENT 
MAP 
OF THE 
WORLD

dTOUpIRG, mKKGmIRUW RU 
pSG pRNGgRUG mIG ,SmvGv
mKmU
8ImUoG
KTIGm
JImU
dSRUm
PmRrmU
kOmpmNmgm
wOG& dmUmg
JUTvUG,Rm
dOnm
$MmUmNm
QTNRURomU sGKOngRo 
ERGpUmN 
lTUvOIm, 
eg wmg3mvTI 
dSRgG
aiWSmUR,pmU
kIGUmvm
hRnfm
NmK IRUv pRNGgRUG nf RN ERGIGUWRG

---------------------------------------------------

\kr-neg'-e\ 9

---------------------------------------------------

.A
Ed. Note The writer is a student at CMU and would like to 
emphasize that this is purely a personal viewpoint and not 
submitted on behalf of any organization.
MAJOR PLAYERS IN THE GULF: 
KUWAIT
MTKOgmpRTU L J cuH9 265 NRggRTU 
JEI omKRpm d R6D6M6 L 50w>H9 w5F6Cw> 
sGgRWRTU9 DGmIgf URg jO,gRN L>? wOUURH
KpgRURo9 anTOp w6c aImn LRUogOvRUW mnTOp F7? MmgG,pRU_
RmUH6 .>? MGI,RmU6 JUvRmU 
dRT\GNRUGUp9 jTUmIoSf
( GiTIG agRR6 . RU3m,RTU
IRAQ
MTKOgmpRTU L 500>H9 Jpp6pp NRggRTU
MGI omKRpm LR6X6M6 L J0wwH9 DTp m3mRgmngG
sGgRWRTU9 07666jO,gRN LC>? wSR$RpG6 F7 <V wOUURH9 7?
LdSIR,pRmU
lpSURo9 ~wq6O aImn9 Jwq6b KOIvR,S9 NT,p Ti IG,p POIyR,S 
L$< V\3NNGN9 QRopmpTI,SRK gGv nf wmvvmN J gO,,GRU6 
SGmv Ti m$mpS MmIpf
SAUDI ARABIA
MTKOgmpRTU L 500>H9 576> NRggRTU
MGI omKRpm d R6D6M6 L 506wwH9 'Cb5>
sGgRWRTU9 DGmIgf mgg jO,gRN
KpSURo9 DGmIgf mgg aImn
kT3GIUNGUp9 jTUmIoSf rRpS pIRnmg oTOUoRg
ISRAEL
MTKOgmpRTU L 500>H9 R6u NRggRTU 
MGI omKRpm LR6D6M6 L 506wwH9 wpp6C7> 
sGgRWRTU9 w.L$RR9|GrR,S6 57q6b jO,gRN6 .? dSIR,pRmU 
J$6pSURo9 w.qUGrR,S6 5Cq6V aImn 
LRT3GIUNGUR9 MmIgRmNGUpmIf vGNToImof 
9 JUogOvG, GrR,S ,GppgGI, RU cG,p mUy mUv LRm6m6 nOp 
UTp 56 NRggRTU aImn, RU pST,G pGIIRpTIRG,b r ST mIG 
WT3GIUGv OUvGI J,ImGgR NRgRpmI\ mvNRUR,pImpRTU6
<OY Oht L 
TO
7 .
Qu
T PF _
u U1X >6 to S
A Muslims Perspective
When I heard that the war in the Persian Gulf had started, I 
was numbed by conflicting emotions. It was a terrible thing 
that a ruthless man had done to Kuwait and he had to be 
stopped. I was worried about the civilians on "our" side  a 
personal concern because my father is in Saudi Arabia and I 
have lived in the region myself, and because my country has 
sent thousands of troops to Saudi Arabia. However, I also have 
Iraqi friends whose misery was suddenly magnified tenfold. If 
seemed a crime that one country was being bombed back 
decades to "save" another. The political rhetoric abounded on 
either side. Saddam's self-serving play on religious imagery 
and the sentiments of oppressed people opposed Bush's hollow 
appeal to international law and a sudden moral indignation at 
human rights abuses.
But it is the further division of Muslims that troubled me 
the most. It's difficult to understand the sympathy in many 
quarters toward an irreligious brutal dictator who had system
atically suppressed and caused the deaths of more Muslims 
than anyone else in recent times. But the fact that, for example, 
both religious groups and secular nationalists in Egypt agitated 
against the war and that Bangladeshis who had benefitted 
economically from the Saudis and the Kuwaitis rallied against 
their benefactors indicated that something more than just 
religious or nationalistic sentiment was at play.
Lack of Moral Authority
"No Blood for Oil!" is a familiar peace slogan in the U.S. 
Implicit in this statement is the realization that it isn't human 
suffering or international law that motivates the war, but rather 
"corporate interests." "Corporate" may translate to "multina
tional conglomerate," but a wider meaning could be groups of 
people with selfish agendas and political clout  power elites if 
you will. Many people are justifiably concerned that the 
essentially western campaign isn't just after Saddam, or even 
the oil, but rather a strategic subjugation of the entire region.
During this period of industrialization, the entire social, 
economic, and political landscape of the Muslim world and the 
Third World generally is changing. The legitimate aspirations 
of the mass of the population have by and large been thwarted 
by unrepresentative regimes that have traditionally been clients 
or stooges of foreign powers. Thus it is quite natural that when 
a people are repressed, popular resentment will be directed 
towards what is seen as the oppressors' source of power or 
towards the outrightly intrusive foreign puppeteer. After years
LUacT*TOcDc.oa*+-uQJcr>TOoc(DU*+->TOTOod)_>aMXTO<V1M00 TJ
It was the
further division 
of muslims that 
troubled me 
most.... something 
more than just 
religious or na
tionalistic senti
ment was at 
play.
C v
c
c<Q
-O
) <s>
9
[6
Z O Ti )x
. * CL) l xd = Z7 P U < Je
10 \kar-neg'-e\

---------------------------------------------------

on the Persian Gulf War
In the Muslim 
World, genuine 
admiration of 
many aspects of 
the U.S. Constitu
tion is soured by 
prejudice.
of proxy repression, when that foreign power physically attacks 
a rogue-run country, local populations will be as concerned 
about the foreigner's agenda, which has historically been 
inimical towards them, as they had been about the rogue.
Large numbers of people in the Third World view the U.S. 
as the principle heir, among several, of the imperialists of an 
earlier era; to them the U.S. is a far cry from "motherhood and 
apple pie." The following anti-Iraq polemic, which is currently 
in vogue, can easily be redirected toward the U.S. government 
(consider the parallel U.S. actions in brackets):
"Once upon a time, in a land far away, there was an evil 
government that: invaded peaceful neighbors (pre-WW2 Latin 
America, Panama, Grenada); blatantly flouted international law 
(sabotaging Nicaraguan economy); manipulated public senti
ment for its wayward policies (pro-administration media 
barrage); engaged in terrorism, environmental. (Agent Orange) 
and other (support of death squad governments in Central 
America, tacit approval of Israeli crimes, toppling Mossadegh 
and Allende); stockpiled weapons of mass destruction and 
readily used them against civilians (nuclear weapons, 
Hiroshima, Nagasaki); and on the whole managed to mess up 
people's lives even halfway around the world (supporting 
dictatorial regimes in the Third World). Such a government 
must surely be opposed despite its protestations that it only has 
the interests of the weak and the poor in mind."
The Muslim world is undergoing a period of transition 
wherein popular movements, with primarily religious out
looks, are gaining ground at the expense of foreign-supported 
elites that are largely divorced from their subjects' concerns. 
Whether it be in Algeria, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Syria or 
Tunisia, the U.S. has either connived with local regimes to 
repress these movements, looked the other way when they 
were persecuted, or when they have been successful, it has 
gone to the extent of destabilizing them or supporting their 
physical overthrow. In the Muslim world, the genuine admira
tion of many aspects of the U.S. Constitution is soured by 
revulsion with such hostile attitudes, the continually deroga
tory and prejudicial media, and the U.S. alliance with Israel, 
(considered a western-imposed neo-colonialist settler state).
The massive destruction unleashed upon Iraq suggests that 
the U.S. isn't just interested in "reversing aggression" but in 
destroying Iraq's long-term industrial, economic and military 
capacity (remember  Saddam won't live forever). The
debilitating effect on civilian life seems to bother no one, least 
of all a "yes-man" media more interested in glamorous weap
onry. There is, however, poetic justice in that, by dealing with 
the monster they let loose for eight years against a popular 
revolution, the foreigners and the selfish unrepresentative local 
regimes have been exposed as callous opportunists who pay 
only lip service to U.N. ideals, and care more about their profits 
and holding on to power.
This is not to belittle the Kuwaiti and, of course, the Iraqi 
people's suffering and a myriad of other problems; but who 
cried for the Kurds, the people of Hama and of Lebanon? The 
failure of the "international" coalition to enter into regional 
peace negotiations because, as British Prime Minister John 
Major said, "you don't negotiate with a burglar to get out of 
your house" underlines the hypocrisy of the West. For it has 
been the colonialist western powers who have been the 'bur
glars' in these lands for more than two centuries and it has been 
their apprentice that has dispossessed the Palestinians of their 
homeland. And yet, despite the Palestinians' recognition of 
that burglar's "right to exist," they have been repeatedly denied 
their own nationhood.
Tragedy Perpetuated
It isn't only Muslims who are concerned about the western 
agenda in the Middle East. Recently, the French defense 
minister resigned because he realized that the war will be 
pursued beyond the U.N. objective of liberating Kuwait. 
Statements from Bush and former British Prime Minister 
Thatcher that a foreign presence would be maintained as long 
as "necessary" lend credence to fears of a belligerent new 
colonialism. Western debate along the lines of "who do we 
take care of next," "how do we tame the savages," or "their 
propaganda about civilian deaths," belies an utter disregard for 
"their" point of view and an unrivalled arrogance.
January 15 wasn't just a deadline for Saddam to leave 
Kuwait, but also one for the West to grasp the larger historical 
dimension of the struggle in the region. Military victory in this 
devastating war, started at the behest of influential lobbies, 
might bring a fleeting peace, but the fires of enmity amongst 
the people of the area and towards the West are being stoked 
anew and will rage long. Johnson's "new society" brought 
recession and a divided nation; Bush's "new world order" will 
see perpetual strife and an even more divided humanity.
\kar-neg'-\ \ \

---------------------------------------------------

An Israeli student talks about home, Israels critics
How do you feel about what's going on?
It's a really strange situation. For instance, it would be 
inconceivable for terrorists to kidnap a Belgian and then require 
the Americans to free someone from jail. The terrorists could 
kidnap anybody but an Arab, a Belgian, an American, someone 
from England and then ask easy to release the terrorists from 
jail in Israel, even though it has nothing to do with Israel. We 
tend to connect anything to Israel, so now... Iraq attacks Ku
wait, and now Israel is to blame for it.
I don't believe that anybody in Israel is really worried 
about war with Iraq. We have no border with them. There were 
wars before; we've been in a state of war since 1948, but they've 
never done anything of any significance against Israel.
What will probably happen is because people here have 
some sense of "equality." "We did something for this side, then 
we have to do something for theirs." So once they, the Ameri
cans, destroy Iraq, then they'll say, "now it's Israel's turn." So 
many people in Israel are worried that once this war has ended, 
they would say, "we got Iraq out of Kuwait, now Israel will 
have to get out of the West Bank." When they wouldn't say,
"we got Iraq out of Kuwait, England has to get out of Ireland." 
Somehow, it's always Israel that gets involved. So I guess that's 
the main concern that I have for the war.
I was talking with people in Israel, and they're finding that 
it's harder to sleep lately........
How often do you talk to them, and whom do you communicate with?
I talk to them about every two days, and we use e-mail too.
I got my masters in Israel, so I get e-mail from people at 
Technion, the equivalent of one of the technical universities in 
the United States, like MIT or Renesslaer Poltechnic; about half 
of my friends have e-mail accounts. I call my family from time 
to time, they call here....
So they just wait?
Well, Israelis hear a lot of news; [so they don't have to wait 
to find out what's going on.] In Israel we have news once an 
hour anyway, and people would listen to the news seven, eight, 
nine times a day, even in normal times just because so many 
things are happening every day. I guess now people are 
listening continuously, as well as many Israelis here who go 
watch CNN in the library. I'll go to watch the news about every 
two hours, to watch the newss see if something happened.
Have you had any problems with calling or sending mail?
The first night, it took me two hours to get through, and 
many people said that they didn't get through. Now after every 
attack it takes about half an hour. I guess it depends on the 
carrier, too.
As for mail, I sent an express package, and it arrived within 
three days. I don't know that there's a problem; I guess the 
main problem that there's only one mail carrier to israel, and I 
guess they're not going as often as before. Another thing that 
might be a problem is that whenever there's a terrorist attack, 
the postal service checks almost every package to see if one is 
earring a bomb and that also slows tilings down. But they've 
been doing that for a long time now.
So what's going on in Israel now?
There isn't much going on, Israel is not in the war, so 
whenever something does happen, I hear about it.
It's very strange for an Israeli to be in this country at war. 
you wouldn't know it by walking around. Israel is not like that. 
When the country's at war, when the news comes on, you 
could hear it walking in the street. Everyone would have the 
same news on at the same time, and it would be loud. Here the 
first day it was kind of like that, when people watched TV.
Ed. Note Shmuel Ur 
is a graduate student in the 
Computer Science Depart
ment. In this interview, Ur 
talks about being an Israeli 
in America during such a 
",strange situation."
So all of your family is in Israel?
Actually, in Tel Aviv and Haisa, mostly, the targeted cities. 
My parents live in Tel Aviv, and usually I hear before them 
what's going on. It's Israeli policy not to let anyone know 
where the rockets fell until at least a day after. The reason is 
that once you tell somebody where the rockets fell, anyone can 
calculate the discrepency and then send the second one to the 
right place. In 1973, we made this mistake of saying where the 
rockets fell, and the Syrians used that information to correct the 
remaining ones.
How are your parents?
I just got a letter today saying that they usually don't sleep 
well, but after the first attack, they slept well the rest of the 
night. Then, two days ago, there was another attack, so now 
they can't be sure about that anymore. I called my sister, and 
she said, "I'm not sure if I'll take a shower before or after the 
alarm." So it's pretty difficult; most people are staying at home 
at night. I guess it's pretty bad, but it's not like they're going to 
be attacked by airplanes. So they don't have to worry about 
losing their lights and stuff like that. It's a random attack.
But it kind of fell away?
Yes, so now there's a commercial in the middle of what you 
want to see.
Is there anything you want to say?
Before people get such a strong opinion, like on the connec
tion between the Israeli invasion of the West Bank and Iraqi 
invasion of Kuwait, I think they should at least be able to point 
out the West Bank on the map. They should know some kind of 
history before they go out and demonstrate. Sure, if somebody 
is just stating his opinion to their friend, that's one thing, but if 
somebody is willing to go out and demonstrate, he should be 
willing to learn a little bit of history and geography. I mean, I 
don't know how many people know what the distance is 
between the West Bank and Tel Aviv. If they look at the map, 
they would realize that the center of israel is about ten miles 
from where they want the Arab state to be in, an Arab state 
controlled by the PLO.
by Alison Green 
Tartan Magazine Editor
12 \kr-neg-e\

---------------------------------------------------

What Will Happen if a 
Draft is Reinstated?
1. Congress will pass a law 
reinstating the authority to 
draft.
2. The same day, a lottery 
will be held to assign a 
priority number to each 
birthdate in the year. 
Young men turning 20 in 
the current calendar year 
will be called first, accord
ing to their lottery num
ber.
3. The next day, mailgrams 
will be sent to registrants 
whose birthdates were
. given low lottery numbers.
4. Draftees will have ten days 
to report for active military 
duty from the date the 
mailgram is sent, not die 
date that it is mailed.
5. Draftees will have less 
than ten days to file for 
deferments and exemp
tions.
6. The following exemptions 
and deferments are 
available: conscientious 
objector, hardship, 
minister or ministerial 
student,, medical, homo
sexuality, surviving son (if 
your mother, father, 
brother or sister was killed 
as a result of military 
service you are eligible for 
surviving son status), and 
other less widely used 
deferments and exemp
tions (for more detailed 
information contact 
CCCOO/ An agency for 
Military & Draft Counsel
ing, 2208 South Street, 
Philadelphia, PA 19146.)
Do you feel a draft? The DCC can help
Did you know, if you're drafted, that fleeing to Canada or 
Sweden is no longer an option? That being in college will no 
longer protect you from serving? Or that the government will 
start drafting 20 and 19 year-olds first?
If you didn't know any of these facts about the draft and 
would like to know more about how the draft works, have 
questions about the different areas of military service, or would 
like to have draft counseling, then the Friends Draft Counseling 
Center is the place to turn.
The Draft Counseling Center was first founded more than 
20 years ago during the Vietnam War, when Draft Counseling 
was in high demand. After the war ended, interest in the draft 
and counseling slowly faded away, as did the Center. How
ever, with the current war in the Gulf and possibility of the 
draft being reinstated, the Center's been re-opened and has had 
it's hands full during the last month.
The Center currently only has six counselors, who have 
been extremely busy recently answering more than 300 phone 
calls on a large variety of topics. However, the Center is in the 
process of training new counselors, as well as beginning new 
programs besides the hotline, such as group counseling. 
Although the service is called Draft Counseling, your questions 
don't have to center around that one topic exclusively. If you 
have any questions about any aspect of how the military works 
in general, the Draft Counseling Center can answer those 
questions as well.
Anne Kuhn, one of the counselors, related some of the
more difficult questions which have been asked. Which branch 
of the military should one avoid? How can asking for a non
combat position be even worse than serving on the front line? 
Are women likely to be drafted? How does the draft get 
reinstated? What can parents do if her son or daughter wants to 
join the military and serve in the Gulf? The Center will only 
answer your question if they know the answer, tell you only 
facts, and try not to bias the answer in any way. If you ask the 
Center a question they don't know the answer to, they will call 
as many sources as possible to find the answer to your question 
and attempt to get the answer to you as quickly as possible.
In addition to the counseling, the Center has several 
handouts and flyers which answer some of the more common 
and complex questions, such as how to prove you're a consci
entious objector and how the draft works.
The Center itself is located just a few blocks away from 
campus on 4836 Ellsworth Avenue, on the second floor. You 
can also call the Draft Hotline at 683-5521, and counselors will 
personally answer your questions. The Hotline is in service on 
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 10 am to 4 pm, and 
from 6 pm to 8 pm on Tuesday and Thursday.
If you call at a time when a counselor isn't manning the 
phones, there's an answering machine where you can leave 
your name and number and the Hotline will call you back.
by Stephen Glicker 
Tartan Diversions Editor
\kar-neg'-e\

---------------------------------------------------

Local institute offers no credit, changes lives
The Pittsburgh Peace Institute, located in the East Liberty 
Presbyterian Church on South Highland Avenue, is entering its 
eighth year. Co-Director Kathy Guthrie smiles when she thinks 
about the humble beginnings of the Institute. "For the first six 
and a half years, we were located in the attic of Liane's house," 
she said. Co-Director Liane Norman adds that when they were 
incorporated in January, 1984, "the emphasis [of the Institute] 
was on nuclear issues, and then we broadened it."
Now the Institute is seeing more activity than they could 
ever have conceived of then. Calls have been coming in regu
larly since U.S. involvement in the war in the Middle East. "We 
were trying all along to provide the kind of information that 
would ultimately prevent this sort of thing," said Norman.
Now they are finding that their workshops on conscientious 
objection, nonviolent civil disobedience training, educational 
programs and teach-ins are in demand. The Institute has 
always offered courses targeted toward creating "a larger, long
term structure for the resolution of conflict in ways consistent 
with peace and justice." The institute offers, in Norman's 
words, "alternatives to violence from a personal to a national 
level."
They've been heavil involved with local activity, including 
a workshop for the University of Pittsburgh on civil disobedi
ence training and a program for teachers on how to teach 
young children and adolescents to be civilly responsible. "We 
also have a course on 'war play7 [toys and cartoons which 
encourage violence] that we've been asked to repeat from last 
year," says Guthrie. They also have a course on how to deal 
with children traumatized by the war. "They may wonder if the 
war will "come and get them,'" said Guthrie.
Funded almost entirely by individual donations, the 
Institute is "the only systematic peace program in this area," 
according to Norman. The degrees the Institute offers are 
community-based, but they are available to help out in degreegranting universities. 'This needs to go further," Norman said.
Norman runs the civil disobedience programs. She stresses 
that "people who don't get training oughtn't do it." People who 
don't know what to expect from a civil disobedience might be 
surprised by what happens afterward. Norman cited an 
example from a recent spontaneous civil disobedience down
town. "It was upsetting," said Norman, "[the people who 
participated] didn't get the treatment in jail that they expected."
While policemen can be sympathetic, they can also be rough. 
The training involves learning not resist physically to help 
prevent injury. Through role-playing, participants learn how to 
react to police and harassment from a crowd. At the end, 
everyone takes a pledge of nonviolence. 'The use of nonviolent 
power to resist oppression involves a different way of looking 
at power," said Norman.
Courses on everything from citizenship to inner peace are 
offered by the institute, and are available for interested groups. 
The co-directors said that they'd be interested in bringing a 
workshop to CMU. "You know, everybody involved [with the 
peace initiative] was well over 30," said Norman. "Now the 
young people are back  the same kids we were told were 
completely interested in themselves  and it's exciting."
by Alison Green 
Tartan Magazine Editor
Draw your own conclusions...
- Barrels of oil the US consumes each day: 17 million
- Barrels of oil the US imports each day: 8.4 million
- Barrels of oil used by average American every year
(26 by average Italian; 11 by average Colombian): 2
- Percentage of US oil supplied by Iraq and Kuwait
prior to the current trade embargo: 5
- Percentage of US oil use that could be saved by raising
car fuel efficiency standards by 2.8 miles per gallon: 5
- MPG for average car driven in the US: 19
- Market price of Middle East oil, mid-October, 1990: $39
- Price of Middle East oil if both routine military ends
in Middle East and the costs of Operation Desert 
Shield are included: $70
14 \kr-neg'-e\
wTOIoG,9 Dictionary of American Diplomatic History, Second Edition, Gv6 TSU e6 8RUvgRUW 
The Encyclopedia of American Facts and Dates, Fifth Edition, Gv6 kTIpTU dmIIOpS & Associates 
The Almanac of American History, Gv6 aIpSOI j6 woSgG,RUWGIb I6b Gp6 mg6

---------------------------------------------------

meet a group
write to a soldier
land-based service person: 
Any Service Person 
Operation Desert Storm 
APO NY 09848-0006
sea-based service person: 
Any Service Person 
Operation Desert Storm 
FPO NY 09866-0006
make a call
PittlnfoLine 661-4284
Friends Meeting House 683-2669
Central Blood Bank 456-1980
National Lawyers Hotline I-8OO-86-NO-WAR
National Lawyers Guild 391-7707
Michael Healy 
Paul Girdany
DC Peace Center (202) 234-2000
Military Law Project Hotline for Counseling and Referral (800) 866-6927
Student Environmental Action Coalition (914) 967-4600
Military Families Support Network 
P O. Box 11098
Milwaukee, WI 53211 (202)543-0974
locally: Mary Noel Woollard, 761-9510
Rebecca Cunningham, 621-2287
African Americans for Middle East Peace 242-6700
c/o Jobs With Peace 
802 N. Homewood Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15208
Veterans for Peace 391-8443
Sanford Kelson
Interfaith Peace Group 241-4809
(information)
fr- Donald Fisher
CMU Students for Peace 
Sundays, PH 225C, 7:00pm
Pitt Students for Peace
Mondays, Cathedral of Learning 232, 8:00pm
Pitt Teach-In for Peace 
Wednesday, Feb. 20 
all day
Commemoration of Malcom Xs Assassination
Thursday, Feb. 21
citywide student rally at CMU
(time and location not yet established)
Committee for a Comprehensive Peace in the Middle East 
Mondays, East Liberty Lutheran Church,
5707 Penn Ave., 7:30pm
Weekly Candlelight Vigil for Peace 
(until the troops come home)
Federal Building 
Wednesdays, 4:30 - 5:30pm
agR,TU kIGGU
Tartan Magazine Editor
a&gGGUm wmggGS
Tartan Assistant Magazine Editor 
Staffwriters and other 
helpful people:
wpGKSGU kgRoyGI 
lGRvR lTT3GI 
GUURiGI KGI,pGRU 
wmNmUpSm KT,,NmU 
RN ERGIGUWGg
\kar-neg'-e\ 15

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

ETgONG A76 J,,OG 5C
Dancers 
swing to 
London
By COLLEEN KANE
Tartan Staffwriter
Its tea time for the Carnegie 
Mellon Ballroom Dance Club. 
On March 19, a team of nine 
members from the intramural 
club will fly to London for the 
United States Ballroom Dance 
Association International 
Intercollegiate English compe
tition.
Students from other universi
ties in the United States, including M.I.T., Princeton, 
Harvard, and others, will also 
attend. The international aspect 
ofthe competition will also bring 
contestants from 11 countries, 
including Japan, the Soviet 
Union, Hong Kong, Wales, and 
Canada. Unfortunately, the 
Persian Gulf war has interfered 
with many of the competitors 
ravel plans.
This nine day-event isnt 
strictly competitive; it will be 
instructional and cultural as 
well. The dancers will attend 
seminars and classes on differ
ent techniques and styles of 
dance. Moreover, a hectic social 
intinerary, full of parties, pic
nics, and tours, is planned so 
that the dancers will have the 
opportunity to meet their com
petition while getting a glimpse 
of Big Ben and other attrac
tions.
People often associate the 
term ballroom dancing with 
waltzing. However, this general 
title includes dances such as the 
foxtrot, quick step, rumba, chacha, jive, mamba and others. 
Some ofthe dances can easily be 
)ted to contemporary pop 
music like the B-52s.
A ballroom dance contest is 
judged very differently from 
;other competitions. There are 
three levels of difficulty ranked 
according to bronze, silver, and 
, ranging from amateur to 
expert level respectively. Under 
each category are first, second, 
and third places plus various 
individual and team awards. 
'The CMU team will be compet
ing at the amateur level. Couples 
are divided into heats. Couples 
in the same heat dance to the 
same music.
However, competitors are not 
Please see DANCE, page L3
PSG PmIpmU6 dmIUGWRG jGggTU tUR3GI,Rpfb MRpp,nOIWSb MGUU,fg3mURm55 8GnIOmIf 5005
Gina Moore as Sister Melissa and Lissa Romero as Mary perform in Sister Melissa in Medjugorje, a play written and directed by Marty Giles.
NHI .pIoJHn sr edU.U
Curtain rises on innovative festival of short plays
By KEVIN BARNEY
Tartan Contributing Editor
This past weekend, over 300 people 
were entertained by a small produc
tion companys second attempt at 
producing a 10-minute play festival. 
The 12 produced plays covered a range 
of topics from mimes to Adams rib to a 
fast food tragedy.
Pyramid Productions came into 
existence last fall when Dan Kennedy, 
a local playwright and CMU graduate, 
decided to put on a 10-minute play 
festival in Pittsburgh. Kennedy was 
asked to write for a 10-minute play 
festival earlier in the year and he 
found that experience to be so enjoy
able that he decided to produce a play 
festival somewhere in Pittsburgh. At 
the American Dream play festival,
Kennedy met Ted Hoover, an awardwinning playwright and the drama 
critic for In Pittsburgh. The two of 
them put their heads together and 
last December eleven 10-minute 
plays, a poet, and a stand-up come
dian were featured in the first 10- 
minute play festival ever held in 
Pittsburgh.
This first play festival was so 
successful 100 showed  that the 
second 10-minute play festival was 
quickly organized.
Last Friday, the first night of the 
three-night play festival entitled 
Pyramid Reproductions, three 10- 
minute plays and a poet were seen 
by close to 100 people at The Bir
mingham Lofts, a local art gallery.
The first play on Friday night, Be 
Mime Baby, raises the delicate issue
of whether or not mimes are real 
people and if they should be treated as 
such. Mildred and Anwar, a middleaged, childless couple, get a surprise 
one evening when a doughnut box is 
thrown onto their front porch. Inside 
the box is a baby mime. The couple 
has a humorous argument over 
whether or not to keep the baby and 
they eventually decide to call the 
mime Exterminator.
The second 10-minute play, Buried 
Mom, is a hysterical look at the 
realities of pregnancy and birth. The 
scene consists of four pregnant women 
who are in a Lamaze class preparing 
for the big event. One woman, Mary, is 
nervous about having her first child, 
while the other three women have 
some fun at Marys expense. Talk of 
bowel movements during labor, mucus
plugs, and 10 cm dilations leave Mary 
almost hysterical. By the end of the 
scene, Mary has had her baby and is 
bragging about going through the pain 
of the procedure.
Karma Lisa Edwards, a local poet, 
went third on Friday and read some of 
her work. Edwards also read in Decem
ber at the first 10-minute play festival.
The final scene for Friday was an en
riching and thought-provoking piece on 
religion. Sister Melissa in Medjugorje 
concerns a Pittsburgh native-turned-nun 
who is in Yugoslavia. While waiting out
side of an outhouse, Sister Melissa runs 
into what appears to be a local peasant 
woman. The two get into an argument 
about religion. The peasant woman dis
appears as does the gentleman in the 
outhouse, leaving the nun to believe they 
Please see PLAY FESTIVAL, page L3
wpGmIU, mv3TompG, RUpGWImg oOgpOImg NG,, mp djt
I think its important for universities 
to be willing to be somewhat messy.  
 Professor Peter Stearns 
History Department head
Jennifer Adairo/Tartan DarKroom Manager 
Stearns touts importance of debate.
By TRUPTI PATEL
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
| On receiving the invitation to 
;do the last lecture, I was re
minded of a feature in newspa
pers that used to occur quite 
regularly when I was a kid. Usu
ally in July and August there 
would be a picture of a family 
.celebrating Christmas, and it 
would be noted that the Simpsons 
.were celebrating Christmas in 
late July because little Bart was
 JJOt going to live until December.
 So I wondered when invited what 
jhey knew that I didnt, said 
Professor Peter Stearns in his 
; last lecture on Thursday in the 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall. 
.Stearns, head of the History 
Department at CMU since 1985,
; elivered the first installment of 
; he Last Lecture Series, coordit^le Division of Student 
; Affairs. According to promotional
 for the lecture series, The 
; ast Lecture Series is an oppornity for the university commu:mty to hear faculty members 
. Present their ultimate lecture, the 
words they would choose if the 
ecture were to be their last.... 
Although Steams lecture be
gan with a number of humorous 
comments and anecdotes, the lec
ture quickly took on a very serious 
tone and conveyed a sincere 
message to the audience.
Stearns speech, entitled MakingCMU aMessier Place, focused 
on the necessity of improving the 
university environment by shak
ing it up a little, in order to bring 
about some conflict and debate.
The theme of Steams lecture 
made it very clear that there are 
many problems around the 
Carnegie Mellon campus which 
exacerbate the intellectual tone 
and discourage any type of impor
tant debate. Among the problems, 
Steams cited the prevalence of 
conformity within the campus 
environment as presenting an 
inadequate opportunity to chal
lenge others.
According to Steams, there are 
several other problems which
limit as well as discourage debate 
within the campus community. 
Among these problems is the fact 
that participatory debate is not 
emphasized within the regular 
curricula of students. Further
more, faculty members have a 
tendency to allow scienticism to 
dominate the university atmo
sphere . He believes that this leads 
to a problem-solving mentality in 
which students are encouraged to 
identify problems and to come up 
with a solution to them. However, 
Stearns point is that not all 
problems can be solved and that 
some of the most interesting de
bate takes place over issues that 
are undefinable.
In addition to these factors, 
Steams said, We attract stu
dents, who for all their attractive
ness and all of their undoubted 
intelligence, tend to be somewhat 
careerist... and not too interested
in intellectual distraction. 
Steams cited internationaliza
tion and gender issues on the 
campus as specific topics which 
have been largely ignored as de
batable subjects.
Were doing a few things about 
[internationalization], he said,
but we havent had the kinds of 
coherent pressures from interna
tional students to address par
ticular aspects of our curriculum 
that have created furor ... [andl 
interesting debate on some other 
campuses. Relatedly, we have ... 
some debate on the basis of the
concerns of students of color. 
There was particularly significant 
debate two years ago, and I dont 
want to downplay that. Yet, on 
the whole, it seems to me that 
compared to other campuses with 
which we otherwise like to com
pare ourselves, weve had rather 
little such debate.
Professor Stearns emphasized 
that debate is essential to the 
university environment simply 
because colleges not only add to 
the store of knowledge, but also, if 
theyre particularly good, produce 
some kinds of efforts to talk about 
wider intellectual vision.
He added that universities 
should encourage a process by 
which knowledge, whether new 
or previously acquired, is chal
lenged, defended, and reas
sessed.... I think its important 
for universities to be willing to be 
somewhat messy.
Steams added that in order to 
create an atmosphere that pro
motes debate on campus, several 
things are necessary. First, fun
damental debate must simply be 
emphasized more by both stu
dents and faculty. Second, CMU, 
as an institution, needs to tolerPlease see STEARNS, page L3

---------------------------------------------------

pA dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccx
Cults On Campus?
According to Lisa 
Birnbachs book, Lisa 
Birnbachs New and Im
proved College Book, 
CMUrates 4.5 on a scale 
of 1-10 for political and 
social activity.
Do you think this 
campus is politically 
active or apathetic?
Charlie Goldstein 
freshman 
H&SS
Id say its about a 4.5. Ill 
agree with her. Some of the 
people really do care and 
some of the people really 
dont. ButI couldbe wrong.
Anupam Narula
freshman
CIT
Most people are conscious 
about whats happening in 
the world. I guess we sup
port whats going on right 
now. Were all generally 
happy with the situation. 
We care, but we dont always 
show it.
Brian McCarthy 
first year graduate 
student 
SUPA
Being from SUPA, I am 
oriented toward viewing the 
political atmosphere of this 
school. SUPA is politically 
active, but were so isolated, 
. so I have no idea about the 
undergraduates.
Alison Colman
junior
art
I dont really know much 
about political activity on 
other campuses, but just 
from what I know it seems 
pretty apathetic. Because of 
the Persian Gulf issue there 
is some activity. I think it 
could be a lot better.
Ed Tsai 
sophomore 
electrical engineer
ing
I think its more apa
thetic. We do all these 
rallies, but I dont know 
if people actually mean 
to go there for what 
theyre doing or if theyre 
just going to have fun.
CU'V'VL'E UPSRI International
Menlo Park, California
Wednesday & Thursday 
February 13,14,1991processing, systems development and many other areas.
For outstanding individuals, with U.S. Citi
zenship and an MS/PhD in Electrical Engi
neering, Computer Science, Physics or Math, 
SRI offers the opportunity to broaden the 
scope of your creativityand your future.
We have opportunities in the following areas:
ENGINEERING RESEARCH:
 Acoustics Signal processing Electromagnetics Radar Controls
COMPUTER RESEARCH: Communication networks Distributed systems Databases Artificial intelligence Software design
Please contact your Placement Center to set 
up an appointment for an On-Campus Inter
view or contact Professional Recruiting, Engi
neering Research Group, SRI International, 
333 Ravenswood Avenue, Menlo Park, CA 
94025. Phone: 415/859-2148. Facsimile: 
415/859-4222. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
U.S. Citizenship is required.
What is a cult?
How do people get involved? 
What is the churchs perspective? 
What are the warning signs? 
How do people get help?
Speakers: Rabbi Joe Levine & Fritz Knabe 
Wherrett Room Tuesday, February 12th 4:30 pm to 6:00 pm
Refreshments will be served.
Josh 8IGGNmUPmIpmU MSTpTWImKSGI
cIfie Carnegie Shoppe invites attsweethearts to
purchase
Sweaters 
25% off
...for that spedai someone 
in our [ife...
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Monday 
February 18
At SRI International, it is our business to re
search, develop, integrate and implement. 
These are deceivingly simple words for pur
suits that engage the nations best minds and 
shape our worlds future. Within our 
Engineering Research Group these activities 
culminate in significant contributions to the 
knowledge and application of acoustics, infor
mation sciences, electromagnetics, signal
Sponsored by the Division of Student Affairs
OPTION

---------------------------------------------------

dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccxpP
DANCE, from page U
iaware of which musical pieces will be 
played until the competition actually 
begins. Each couple dances only a minute 
jnd a half to two minutes while the 
judges observe. Every second counts. 
y0u dont get very much time to make an 
impression, says CIT researcher Cindy 
Wood, vice president of CMUs Ballroom 
Dancing Club.
The rules of competition are very pre,jjse and strict, though they are slightly 
relaxed for the college level. Dancers are 
:only allowed to use certain moves at each 
]cvel of difficulty. In addition, the posi
tion of each dancer must be exact. The 
cement of the hand, bend of the knee, 
facial expression, and direction of the 
glance can mean the difference between 
a win and a loss.
The better you look, the less you need 
to know what you're doing, says sopho
more design major Jennifer Gaspari.
Ballroom dancers swing over to England
Appearance is even more important than 
rules in ballroom dancing. The heavy 
stage make-up which many contestants 
use gives a glamorous effect to the dis
tant judges, but a hideous one to ones 
partner. Hair spray is also a very im
portant commodity  not a single hair 
can move while dancing. Gaspari, a 
member of the team going to London, 
says that some professionals, in order to 
have a perfect tan for the competition, go 
to the extreme of establishing a threeday buildup of bronzing lotion.
Unfortunately, an unblemished ap
pearance has its price. Ballroom gowns 
range anywhere from $500 to $3,000, 
and are normally worn only once. The 
lavish dresses usually cannot be rented 
or resold since the fit needs to be precise. 
Due to the importance of appearance 
and the fact that couples are judged from 
a distance, the gowns are purposely 
overdone with sequins and feathers ga
mG dSmUWPmIpmU MSTpTWImKSGI 
A couple shares a relaxed moment in CMUs Ballroom Dance Club practice.
lore.
Special shoes must also be worn. Made 
only in Germany and England, these 
shoes are very lightweight with a metal 
reinforcement and suede soles that al
low for graceful movement. They are 
expensive and need new soles approxi
mately every two months.
The price of costumes in addition to the 
expense of the trip itself has compelled 
the members of CMUs team to look for 
funding from outside sources. The United 
States Ballroom Dancers Association 
(USBDA), SDC, and the Ballroom Dance 
Club itself have all contributed to the 
event. However, CMU has not agreed to 
sponsor the dancers financially. The team 
was hoping that Carnegie Mellon would 
agree to purchase a few gowns or a stereo 
system for the team to help reduce cost. 
The stereo that the team currently uses 
belongs to one of the members who brings 
it back and forth with him to each ses
sion.
They should help us out, says Gaspari. 
They love their football team so much, 
but wont support us. AB Tech has its 
own equipment. Why cant we? Con
versely, Wood believes that this is because 
it is a fairly new organization. CMU 
hasnt realized were here yet, she says, 
let alone what were all about. We cant 
expect that much support.
Founded two years ago by English 
graduate student Ayami Ogura in an 
effort to form carpools to lessons in 
downtown Pittsburgh, the Ballroom 
Dance Club represents many aspects of 
the campus community because of its 
diverse membership. There are an equal 
number of men and women, a variety of 
majors, and many graduate students, 
totalling about 50 members. The mem
bers going to London reflect this. Along 
with Gaspari and Wood will be club 
president Aki Ohshima, an ECE gradu
ate student; Jenny Pittway, a Pitt 
graduate; Michael Americus, an ECE 
senior; Frans Coetzee, an ECE graduate 
student; Susan Javorski, a general un
dergraduate; Catherine Peters, a gradu
mG dSmUWPmIpmU MSTpTWImKSGI6 
A couple dances at a rehearsal in the Thistle room last Wednesday.
ate student in engineering and public 
policy; and Jeff Rosenfeld, a research 
programmer in SCS.
People become interested in ballroom 
dancing for varied reasons. Wood had 
seen it often on television but never gotten 
around to taking lessons. Her interest 
was unconsummated, she says, until 
one morning I discovered a few gray 
hairs and said, What are you waiting 
for? 
From Gasparis view, guys become in
terested in ballroom dancing because 
they see it as a place to pick up girls. 
Gaspari herself frequently attended 
banquets with her father as a teenager 
and became very nervous when danc
ing with his colleagues. She decided 
that the CMU ballroom dance club 
would be a good way to properly learn 
how to hob-knob. Once joining, she 
discovered something really beauti
ful, ... romantic, and caring. I hope its 
an art form that never gets lost.
PROFESSIONAL MARKETING 
EXPERIENCE
PERSONAL BUSINESS 
CONTACTS
COMMUNICATION & 
BUSINESS SKILLS
LOCAL &INTERNATIONAL
FRIENDSHIPS!!!
PAID INTERNSHIPS 
OVERSEAS
ORIENTATION MEETING
FIRST MEETING 
5:00 
SKIBO ROOM 13
Extension number x3515
wpGmIU, NG,,G, djt 
rRpS vGnmpG mUv ISGpTIRo
STEARNS, from page LI
ate dissent and needs to encour
age dissent, said Stearns.
In addition, several functions 
must be in place in order to create 
debate once the atmosphere ex
ists. To begin with, CMU needs to 
sustain and increase the level of 
diversity among students. We 
need to be attracting people who 
dont like computers. We need 
people who do like English litera
ture, said Steams.
According to Steams, CMUs 
faculty also needs to encourage 
debate of issues. Finally, Steams 
noted that CMU must build upon
the diversities which are already 
present in the university in order 
to encourage debate.
Katie Stannard, assistant to 
Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy, coordinated the Last 
Lecture Series with the help of 
the senior honor society Mortar
board. Stannard said that her 
own alma mater, Carleton Col
lege, gave her the idea to have a 
Last Lecture Series.
I think its a good idea in order 
to give students a chance to hear 
what faculty members would say 
at their ultimate lecture, said 
Stannard, especially for students
who dont have those particular^ 
professors [in a class].
Upcoming speakers in the se
ries include Indira Nair on Feb
ruary 18; Ted Fenton on March 7 
Susan Henry on March 18; and 
Herb Simon on April 9.
All of the lectures will be held at 
4:30 pm in the Adamson Wing 
with the exception of Simons, 
which will be held at 5 pm in the 
Wherret Room.
Stannard plans to continue the 
Last Lecture Series through the 
fall semester of 1991 and perhaps 
indefinitely depending upon stu
dent interest.8G,pR3mg Kgmf, rRpS ,OooG,,
PLAY FESTIVAL, from page LI
are not just people.
Pyramid had some concerns 
about the first night of plays. 
Were a little concerned about 
turning people offbecause we have 
a scene about childbirth and then 
theres Jesus in the outhouse, 
said Hoover. Fortunately, their 
concerns were unfounded as the 
second and third nights had as 
many, if not more, people in at
tendance.
Saturday night at the play fes
tival started out on a bad note. 
The first two scenes, both written 
by CMU undergraduates, had to 
be cancelled due to illness. One of 
the writers, Javier GrilloMarxuach, was disappointed but 
still optimistic.
I think its unfortunate that 
Im not going to see my work 
alongside other Pittsburgh writ
ers, but I am confident that this 
will be one of many more Pyramid 
Productions, says GrilloMarxuach.
The first play to go up on Satur
day was Bone of Contention, an 
interesting scene that investi
gates the repercussions of the 
discovery that Adams rib was not 
used in the creation of woman.
The next play, The Funeral, was 
a revealing play about race rela
tions in the fifties. The plot was 
simple: a wealthy white woman
becomes upset when her dead 
black maid isnt  presentable at 
her own funeral. This play was 
directed by Anne Youens Robb, a 
CMU alumnus, who now teaches 
in the University of Pittsburgh 
English Department.
The third play of the evening 
was directed by Kennedy. Alexis 
in Blunderland was a satirical 
reworking oiAlice in Wonderland 
that involved the cameo appear
ances of Congress and the IRS, 
among others.
Following a brief intermission, 
Moon Over Tangier was per
formed. This play-within-a-play 
was a humorous glance at the 
lives of a married couple who ist 
trust each other. Each member of 
the couple has cheated on the 
other, but they eventually get back 
together.
The final scene of Saturday 
night was Boo! This piece in
volves four cub scouts who black
mail their scout leader into telling 
them another scary story.
Since the cub scouts are afraid 
of almost everything, the scout 
leader ends up telling a story 
about a moose with huge bangs.
Last night, the play festival 
opened with A Brief History of 
Light, directed by Margaret Kelso, 
a CMU play writing professor. The 
story points out some imperfec
tions in society, touching on rac
ism, pollution, and love.
The second play of the evening 
was written by Kennedy. Buddies 
was the simple story of two 
friends, Steve and Julie, who are 
ending their friendship because 
Steve is getting married.
The third play, Moment of 
Truth, is a sobering tale of two 
sisters, Marge and Lisa.
Marge, the alcoholic sister, re
fuses to listen to Lisas advice to 
seek help. After realizing that her 
husband has moved out, Marge 
finally calls for help.
The finale of the evening was a 
drop-dead-laughing spoof of 
Macbeth. Entitled MacMuffin (A 
Fast Food Tragedy in Three Acts} 
the laughing started before the 
lights went up as a bagpipe started 
to play. The puns and the pseudo-; 
Shakespearian dialogue had the; 
crowd groaning and laughing in 
unison.
MacMuffin was presented by' 
The Flying Pig Theatre, a group| 
largely comprised of CMU stu-; 
dents and alumni.
Pyramid Productions has many; 
plans for the future.
Hopefully, by the end of the 
1991, we will have produced our 
first full-length play, said 
Kennedy.
In the nearer future, Pyramid 
Productions has smaller projects 
planned.

---------------------------------------------------

tCareer
DRUG vmf, pSmp oTOgv 
change your life!
Monday, February 11
Career Week Kickoff
Exploring Your Options Outside the Corporate World
9F> K6N6
wyRnT mggITTN
wKGmyGI9 smgKS DmvGIb dTU,ONGI av3TompG 
PTrmIv PTNTIITr, cTIgv QR,oO,,RTU wGIRG, x MmIp J
Thursday, February 14
Medical School: When and How to Apply
B9F> K6N6
womRiG lmgg 5.>
wKGmyGI9 QI6 mInmIm hG3Gfb QRIGopTI Ti avNR,,RTU, Ti pSG tUR3GI,Rpf Ti 
MRpp,nOIWS woSTTg Ti jGvRoRUGb rRgg vR,oO,, pSG momvGNRo mUv KGI,TUmg 
OmgRpRG, NGvRomg ,oSTTg mvNR,,RTU oTNNRppGG, mIG gTTyRUW iTI RU m 
oTNKGpRpR3G omUvRvmpG6 jdaP ,oTIG,/ [Ma/ e4KT,OIG pT pSG SGmgpS iRGgv/ 
e4pImoOIIRoOgmI mopR3RpRG,/ dTNG rRpS fTOI OG,pRTU,6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG lGmgpS MITiG,,RTU, MITWImN6
Saturday, February 16
Slice of Life
PSR, KITWImNb vG,RWUGv iTI 1OURTI, mUv ,GURTI,b rRgg RUogOvG dmIUGWRG jGggTU 
mgONUR KIG,GUpRUW IGmg rTIgv R,,OG,6 MITWImN pTKRo,9 Pm4G,b jmIyGpRUW YTOI_
,Ggi6 JU3G,pRUW iTI GWRUUGI,6 jTUGf jmUmWGNGUpb QOmg dmIGGI dTOKgG,6 
eUpIGKIGUGOI,SRKb epROGppG mUv dTIKTImpG dOgpOIG6 a,,GIpR3GUG,, mUv dTN_
NOURompRTU6 jRUTIRpRG, RU pSG dTIKTImpG cTIgvb kImvOmpG woSTTgb kGppRUW mU 
aWGUp6 MIGxIGWR,pImpRTU R, IGORIGv6 hTTy iTI fTOI RU3RpmpRTU RU pSG NmRg TI m,y 
iTI RUiTINmpRTU RU pSG dmIGGI dGUpGI6
wKTU,TIGv nf agONUR sGgmpRTU, uiiRoG6
Monday, February 18
Career Exploration Day
dmIGGI hRnImIf hR3G!
55 m6N6 x F K6N6
kIGf jmppGI6 wyRnT
wpTK nf pSG kIGf jmppGI pT G4KgTIG omIGGI RUiTINmpRTU nTTy, pSmp mIG iITN pSG 
dmIGGI hRnImIf oTggGopRTU Ti pSG dmIGGI dGUpGI6 kGp RUiTINmpRTU TU TOpgTTyb 
momvGNRo pImRURUWb GmIURUW, mUv 1Tn TKpRTU,6 YTO$gg iRUv pmngG, ,KGoRiRomggf 
WGmIGv pT aIp,6 lONmURpRG,6 MOngRo wGopTIb PGoSURomg6 JUpGIUmpRTUmgb evOompRTU6 
O,RUG,, mUv dTNNOURompRTU,6
uKpRTU, iTI aIpR,p,
B9F> K6N6
d8a.J5
hGmIU pT O,G fTOI vGWIGG m, oIGmpR3Ggf m, fTOI mIpR,pRo ,yRgg,6 PSR, KITWImN 
rRgg G4KgTIG ,TNG oTNNTU mUv UTp ,T oTNNTU TKpRTU, iTI gRiG mipGI pSG 8a6 
QR,oT3GI pSG 3m,p ImUWG Ti omIGGI, TKGU pT mIp Nm1TI, mUv STr pT WT mnTOp 
iRUvRUW m 1Tn6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG aIp QGKmIpNGUp6
a dmIGGI m, m jGvRomg sG,GmIoS woRGUpR,p9
PSG j QMSQ MITWImN
B9F> K6N6
womRiG lmgg 5.>
cSmp R, m jGvRomg sG,GmIoS woRGUpR,p/ lm3G fTO G3GI NGp ,TNGTUG rTIyRUW 
TU mU jQMSQ vGWIGG/ dmIUGWRG jGggTU tUR3GI,Rpf mUv pSG tUR3GI,Rpf Ti 
MRpp,nOIWS TiiGI ,OoS m KITWImN6 dTNG NGGp pSG QRIGopTI, Ti pSG MITWImN mUv 
,pOvGUp, KIG,GUpgf rTIyRUW pTrmIv pSR, WTmg Ti m oTNnRUGv jQMSQ vGWIGGG 
mUv pSG omIGGI Ti m NGvRomg IG,GmIoSGI6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG lGmgpS MITiG,,RTU, MITWImN uiiRoG6
hGmIURUW mnTOp PGmoSRUW uKpRTU,
B9F> K6N6
jmIWmIGp jTIIR,TU 5 wGNRUmI sTTN
e4KgTIG vR3GI,G omIGGI KmpS, pT pGmoSRUW iTI GgGNGUpmIf mUv ,GoTUvmIf gG3Gg,6 
PTKRo, RUogOvG pSG dmIUGWRG jGggTU GmIgf oSRgvSTTvGgGNGUpmIf NRUTIb TUG fGmI 
oGIpRiRompRTU KITWImN, iTI pST,G rRpS nmoSGgTI, vGWIGG,b mUv TKpRTU, pT pGmoS 
rRpSTOp oGIpRiRompRTU6
a nIRGi pTOI Ti pSG dSRgvIGU, woSTTg rRgg nG TiiGIGv6
dmIGGI, RU pSG MOngRo wGopTI
B9F> K6N6
wyRnT 5F
aU T3GI3RGr Ti ,TNG vR3GI,G 1Tn TKpRTU, rRpS pSG WT3GIUNGUp rRgg nG WR3GU6 
uKGU pT mgg Nm1TI,6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG lR,pTIf QGKmIpNGUp6
dmIGGI, RU hmr 
79F> K6N6
wyRnT 5F
PSR, KIG,GUpmpRTU rRgg Sm3G pSIGG iToR pSmp gRUy rRpS oTU,RvGImpRTU, pSmp TOWSp pT 
mooTNKmUf m vGoR,RTU pT ,GGy GUpIf RUpT gmr ,oSTTg6 PSGf RUogOvG mU RUiTINGv 
vGoR,RTU mnTOp pSG IRWTI, Ti gmr ,oSTTgb pSG ,GOGUoG Ti ,pGK, RU3Tg3Gv RU pSG 
KIToG,, Ti ,GgGopRUW m ,oSTTg pT rSRoS pT mKKgfb mUv OUvGI,pmUvRUW pSR, oSTRoG 
m, Rp RUigOGUoG, pSG oTOI,G Ti TUG, KGI,TUmg mUv KITiG,,RTUmg gRiG6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG dTggGWG Ti lONmURpRG, mUv wToRmg woRGUoG,6
wT YTO cmUp pT cTIy iTI mU av3GIpR,RUW aWGUof/
79F> K6N6
wyRnT 5>7x5>C
GWRU fTOI ,pImpGWf Ti nIGmyRUW RUpT pSR, oTNKGpRpR3G iRGgv nf WGppRUW qIGmg 
rTIgvq RUiTINmpRTU6
wKGmyGI9 QTUmgv OIyGb ERoG MIG,RvGUpb aooTOUp, wOKGI3R,TIb KGpoSON av3GI_
pR,RUW aWGUof rRgg ,SmIG RU,RWSp, mnTOp pSG oIGmpR3Gb NGvRmb NmIyGp IG,GmIoS mUv 
mooTOUp NmUmWGNGUp iOUopRTU,6
JUpGIUmpRTUmg eUvGm3TI,
C K6N6
wyRnT 5>>
e4KgTIG 3mIRTO, KmpS, pT pSG RUpGIUmpRTUmg ,oGUG nf SGmIRUW iITN IGKIG,GUpmpR3G, 
Ti pSG WT3GIUNGUpb nO,RUG,, mUv UTUKITiRp ,GopTI,6 kGp vRIGop RUiTINmpRTU mnTOp 
TKKTIpOURpRG,b omIGGI KmpS, mUv iGm,RnRgRpf6
PSG cTIyiTIoG Ti pSG 8OpOIG9
dSmUWRUW DGGv, Ti cTIyRUW cTNGU 
9F> K6N6
wyRnT 5>>
wKGmyGI9 QTgTIG, 6 eUURoTb jmUmWGIb dTggGWG sGgmpRTU, mUv eeu dTIKTImpG 
wpmiib ugRU dTIKTImpRTU rRgg vR,oO,, pSG vR3GI,G pIGUv, pSmp mIG G4KGopGv pT TooOI 
UmpRTUrRvG vOIRUW pSG IGNmRUvGI Ti pSG PrGUpRGpS dGUpOIf mUv pSGRI RNKmop TU 
rTNGU6 PSG KIG,GUpmpRTU rRgg iToO, TU R,,OG,b oSmggGUWG, mUv KITngGN, Ti nTpS 
omIGGI KIRNmIfq rTNGU mUv omIGGI mUv imNRgf rTNGU6 EmIRTO, ,pImpGWRG, 
rSRoS rTNGU omU OpRgR&G pT Tii,Gp pSG,G oSmggGUWG, rRgg mg,T nG vR,oO,,Gv6
dmIGGI JUvGoR,RTU wpOvf IGmy
0 K6N6
PmIpmU hTOUWG
QTo, Rp iGGg gRyG G3GIfTUG mITOUv fTO yUTr, G4mopgf rSmp pSGf rmUp pT vT/ 
tUoGIpmRU mnTOp pSG ImUWG Ti omIGGI TKpRTU, iTI fTOI Nm1TI/ jmfnG fTOIG UTp 
G3GU ,T ,OIG mnTOp fTOI Nm1TI666 wpTK nf iTI ,OKKTIp mUv ,GI3RoG, RUiTINmpRTU6 
MRoy OK IG,TOIoG, TU STr pSG dmIGGI dGUpGI omU SGgK fTO rRpS fTOI momvGNRo 
mUv omIGGI oSTRoG,6
Tuesday, February 19
Career Strategy Day
J DGGv m sG,ONGY8awP!
559F> m6N6
wyRnT 55.
kGp fTOI IG,ONG Tii pSG WITOUv nf gGmIURUW ,TNG nm,Ro WORvGgRUG,6 wGo G4_
mNKgG, mUv oTUvOop m IG,ONG oIRpROG6 IRUW fTOI TrU vImip IG,ONG m, pSGIG 
rRgg nG mU TKKTIpOURpf pT Sm3G Rp IG3RGrGv6
Tn 8mRI,9 a EmgOmngG uKKTIpOURpf
5 K6N6
wyRnT 55.
cSmp R, pSG KOIKT,G Ti m 1Tn imRI/ lTr omU J NmyG pSG NT,p Ti Rp/ cSmp vT 5 vT 
rSGU J NGGp mU GNKgTfGI/ PSG,G OG,pRTU, mUv TpSGI, rRgg nG mU,rGIGv m, fTO 
gGmIU pT NmyG pSG nG,p RNKIG,,RTU mp m 1Tn imRI6 PSG 3RvGTpmKG6 lTr pT jmyG m 
Tn 8mRI cTIy iTI YTO rRgg nG ,STrU6
8TI 8TIGRWU wpOvGUp,9 dOgpOImg wyRgg, iTI pSG 
aNGIRomU Tn JUpGI3RGr
5 K6N6
wNRpS lmgg .5F
PSR, ,G,,RTU G4mNRUG, OUvGIgfRUW aNGIRomU oOgpOImg 3mgOG, pSmp RUigOGUoG GN_
KgTfGI, G4KGopmpRTU, Ti pSG 1Tn omUvRvmpG6 eNKSm,R, rRgg nG KgmoGv TU gmUWOmWG 
O,Gv RU 1Tn RUpGI3RGr,b mUmgf,R, Ti oOgpOImg vRiiGIGUoG mUv ,ToRmg IOgG,b mUv pSG 
G,,GUpRmg UTUx3GInmg GgGNGUp, Ti pSG RUpGI3RGr6 MIGKmImpRTU TU gGmIURUW pT ,Ggg 
fTOI,Ggi nf SRWSgRWSpRUW ,pIGUWpS, mUv mooTNKgR,SNGUp, rRgg mg,T nG vR,oO,,Gv6 
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG ewh dGUpGI6
PSG JUvGKGUvGUp Tn wGmIoS
.9F> K6N6
wyRnT 55.
e4mNRUG ,pImpGWRG, mUv RvGm, pT KGIiTIN mU GiiGopR3Gb mopR3G RUvGKGUvGUp 1Tn 
SOUp6 hGmIU NmIyGpRUW pGoSUROG, mUv STr pT vG3GgTK m KgmU Ti mopRTU pT NGGp 
fTOI 1Tn WTmg6 QR,oO,,RTU rRgg RU3Tg3G OUoT3GIRUW IG,TOIoG, mUv UGprTIyRUW6
8RUvRUW m wONNGI Tn
F9F> K6N6
wyRnT 55.
e4KgTIG ,pImpGWRG, pT iRUvRUW pSG KGIiGop ,ONNGI 1Tn iTI fTO6 hGmIU STr pT 
NmyG oTUpmop, rRpS KIT,KGopR3G GNKgTfGI, pSITOWS TUxomNKO, RUpGI3RGr,b 1Tn 
imRI, mUv ,GUvRUW IG,ONG, mUv oT3GI gGppGI,6
dT3GI hGppGI, mUv jTIG 
B K6N6
wyRnT 55.
dIGmpG m KT,RpR3G RNKIG,,RTU OKTU KTpGUpRmg GNKgTfGI, rRpS fTOI omIGiOg mUv 
nO,RUG,,gRyG mKKITmoS pT rIRppGU oTNNOURompRTU,6 hGmN mnTOp vRiiGIGUp pfKG, 
Ti gGppGI, fTO NRWSp nG IGORIGv pT KIGKmIG vOIRUW m 1Tn ,GmIoSb RUogOvRUW oT3GI 
gGppGI,b mooGKpmUoG Ti mU TiiGIb vGogRURUW mU TiiGI mUv TpSGI, O,Gv RU pSmp KIToG,,6
PSG 8RI,p PrT YGmI, Ti m O,RUG,, dmIGGI
B K6N6
wyRnT 5F
PSR, KITWImN R, RUpGUvGv pT WR3G ,pOvGUp, rST mIG KgmUURUW m nO,RUG,, omIGGI 
,TNG UTpRTU Ti pSG yRUv, Ti pSRUW, pSGf Nmf nG vTRUW m, pSGf WGp ,pmIpGv RU pSGRI 
omIGGI,6 QR,oO,,RTU rRgg iToO, TU pSG yRUv, Ti pm,y, UGr WImvOmpG, UTINmggf mIG 
m,yGv pT vTb pSG RNKmop Ti oTIKTImpG oOgpOIG mUv IGgmpRTU,SRK, rRpSRU pSG iRINb 
mUv rSmp ,yRgg, WImvOmpG, UGGv pT WGp KITNTpRTU,6 agg ,pOvGUp, RUpGIG,pGv RU m 
nO,RUG,, omIGGI mIG rGgoTNG6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG QGKmIpNGUp, Ti JUvO,pIRmg jmUmWGNGUp mUv eoTUTNRo,6
eNKgTfGI MGI,KGopR3G9 PSG JUpGI3RGr MIToG,,
B9F> K6N6
wyRnT 5>>
lGIG R, fTOI oSmUoG pT SGmI STr fTO oTNG moIT,, pT KIT,KGopR3G GNKgTfGI, 
vOIRUW mU RUpGI3RGr mUv ,RpG 3R,Rp6 QI6 eIRo woSgG,RUWGIb QRIGopTI Ti dTggGWG 
sGgmpRTU,b aNGIRomU jmUmWGNGUp wf,pGN,b rRgg IG3Gmg SR, RU,RWSp, RUpT pSG 
RUpGI3RGrRUW mUv mKKgRompRTU KIToG,,6
sG,ONG, iTI aIpR,p,9 eNKgTfNGUp mUv e4SRnRpRTU
B9F> K6N6
d8a.JJ
hGmN rSmp WGp, m IG,ONG m ,GoTUv gTTy mUv rSmp vTG,U$p! wGG pSG vRiiGIGUoG, 
nGprGGU m IG,ONG ,ORpmngG iTI m 1Tn RUpGI3RGr mUv TUG iTI mU G4SRnRpRTU TKKTI_
pOURpf6 kGg SRUp, mUv m,y OG,pRTU, mnTOp pSG NGoSmURo, Ti KITvOoRUW fTOI 
IG,ONG6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG aIp QGKmIpNGUp6
Wednesday, February 20
Tn 8mRI 05
5> m6N6 x F K6N6
wyRnT mggITTN
8ToO, Ti pSG imRI rRgg nG TU ,ONNGI TKGURUW, iTI mgg Nm1TI, RU m 3mIRGpf Ti GN_
KgTfNGUp ,GopTI,- KIR3mpGb KOngRob UTUxKITiRp6 a gRNRpGv UONnGI Ti KGINmUGUp 
TKKTIpOURpRG, rRgg mg,T nG m3mRgmngG6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG dmIGGI dGUpGI mUv pSG wpOvGUp eNKgTfNGUp uiiRoG6
aKKgfRUW pT kImvOmpG woSTTg RU pSG RTgTWRomg woRGUoG, 
B9B7 K6N6
jGggTU JU,pRpOpG wToRmg sTTN LGggGiRGgv GUpImUoGH
EmIRTO, ,KGoRmgpf mIGm, rRgg nG vR,oO,,Gvb ,OoS m, RToSGNR,pIfb kGUGpRo, mUv 
jTgGoOgmI RTgTWf6 wRUoG WImvOmpG ,pOvf RU m vR,oRKgRUG vRiiGIGUp pSmU fTOI 
OUvGIWImvOmpG vGWIGG omU nG mU TKpRTUb pSR, R, TKGU pT mgg ,pOvGUp, rST Sm3G 
mU RUpGIG,p RU nRTgTWf6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG QGKmIpNGUp Ti RTgTWRomg woRGUoG,6
Thursday, February 21
Graduate School Day
cSGU YTO 8RUR,S YTOI jO,Ro QGWIGG9 PSG eUv TI pSG GWRUURUW/
5.9F> K6N6
agONUR dTUoGIp lmggb d8a
dmIGGI vG3GgTKNGUp iTI pSG NO,Ro Nm1TI, rRgg nG vR,oO,,Gv rRpS mU GNKSm,R, TU 
WImvOmpG ,pOvf RU NO,Ro6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG jO,Ro QGKmIpNGUp6
j8a MITWImN,
B9F> K6N6
d8a .5.
hTTyRUW iTI m jm,pGI Ti 8RUG aIp, KITWImN/ lRUp, TU STr pT UmIITr vTrU rSmp 
fTO mIG gTTyRUW iTI RU m KITWImN mUv STr pT iRUv pSG KITWImN pSmp$, IRWSp iTI 
fTOI UGGv,6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG aIp QGKmIpNGUp6
MIG,pRWRTO, 8GggTr,SRK, mUv woSTgmI,SRK,
B9F> K6N6
wyRnT 5F
PSR, rRgg nG mU RUiTINmpRTUmg NGGpRUW mnTOp ,OoS KIG,pRWRTO, KT,pWImvOmpG 
iGggTr,SRK, mUv ,oSTgmI,SRK, m, pSG sSTvG,6 jmI,Smgg6 dSOIoSRgg6 8OgnIRWSp6 
DmpRTUmg woRGUoG 8TOUvmpRTUb cmp,TU mUv lGIp&6 jmUf Ti pSG KITWImN, 
RU3Tg3G ,pOvf mnITmv- ,TNG mIG G4ogO,R3Ggf iTI WImvOmpG ,pOvf RU pSG t6w6
agg ,pOvGUp, mIG rGgoTNG- 1OURTI, mIG pSG KIRNmIf pmIWGp mOvRGUoG6
PSRUyRUW mnTOp kImvOmpG woSTTg Y dJPjdw jm1TI,
79F> K6N6
wyRnTb 8moOgpf QRURUW sTTN
aIG fTO oTU,RvGIRUW WImvOmpG ,oSTTg/ Ji fTO Sm3G OG,pRTU, m, pT rSGpSGI 
TI UTp WImvOmpG ,oSTTg R, iTI fTO TI STr pT vG3GgTK m ,OooG,,iOg mKKgRompRTUb 
oTU,RvGI mppGUvRUW pSR, vRUUGI KITWImN6
appGUvmUoG nf RU3RpmpRTU TI oTUpmop mInmIm hm&mIO,b a,,ToRmpG MIT3T,p6 
e4pGU,RTU DT6 C0076
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG dmIUGWRG JU,pRpOpG Ti PGoSUTgTWfb jGggTU dTggGWG Ti woRGUoG, 
mUv pSG MIT3T,p uiiRoG6
PSRUyRUW mnTOp kImvOmpG woSTTg Y l&wwJj
79F> K6N6
wyRnT 5>>
aIG fTO oTU,RvGIRUW WImvOmpG ,oSTTg/ Ji fTO Sm3G OG,pRTU, m, pT rSGpSGI 
TI UTp WImvOmpG ,oSTTg R, iTI fTO TI STr pT vG3GgTK m ,OooG,,iOg mKKgRompRTUb 
oTU,RvGI mppGUvRUW pSR, vRUUGI KITWImN6
appGUvmUoG nf RU3RpmpRTU TI oTUpmop mInmIm hm&mIO,6 a,,ToRmpG MIT3T,p6 
e4pGU,RTU DT6 C0076
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG dTggGWG Ti lONmURpRG, mUv wToRmg woRGUoG,6 kImvOmpG woSTTg 
Ti JUvO,pIRmg avNRUR,pImpRTU mUv pSG MIT3T,p uiiRoG6
Friday, February' 22
dmIGGI, RU cIRpRUW
55 m6N6
wyRnT 5>>
PSR, RUiTINmg KmUGg vR,oO,,RTU R, m ,mNKgGI Ti omIGGI KT,,RnRgRpRG, TKGU pT m 
WImvOmpG RU PGoSURomg mUv MITiG,,RTUmg cIRpRUW6 [OG,pRTU mUv mU,rGI ,G,,RTU pT 
iTggTr6
uKGU pT mgg ogm,,G,- G,KGoRmggf ,ORpGv iTI ,pOvGUp, rST rRgg nG vGogmIRUW pSGRI 
Nm1TI, RU pSG UGmI iOpOIG6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG dmIUGWRG jGggTU aopRTU MITWImN6
DGprTIyRUW m, mU aIpR,p
59F> K6N6
d8a F>5
a omUvRv vR,oO,,RTU TU pSG qaIp dTNNOURpf6q STr pT nIGmy RUpT Rp mUv NmyG Rp 
rTIy iTI fTO6 PSGIG rRgg nG m KmUGg Ti mIpR,p, gGmvRUW pSG vR,oO,,RTU6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG aIp QGKmIpNGUp6
jRUTIRpRG, RU pSG 8RUG aIp,
7 K6N6
IGGv lmgg6 jmIWmIGp jTIIR,TU
agg ,pOvGUp, RU3RpGv pT mppGUv pSR, ITOUvpmngG vR,oO,,RTU6 PSG KITWImN rRgg 
iGmpOIG UTpmngG NRUTIRpf mgONURb imoOgpf mUv oTNNOURpf NGNnGI, rST Sm3G 
,OooGGvGv RU pSG iRUG mIp,6 QR,oO,,RTU rRgg oGUpGI TU oSmggGUWG, mUv IGrmIv, 
GmoS Sm, imoGv6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG dmIUGWRG jGggTU aopRTU MITWImN6
8TIGRWU wpOvGUp, & eNKgTfNGUp9 tUvGI,pmUvRUW pSG JDw
B9F> K6N6
avmN,TU cRUWb myGI lmgg
appTIUGf TSU IGUvmg rRpS OoSmUmU JUWGI,Tgg MITiG,,RTUmg dTIKTImpRTU rRgg 
vR,oO,, pSG 3mIRTO, omIGGIxIGgmpGv TKpRTU, m3mRgmngG pT 8TIGRWU wpOvGUp, mUv pSG 
,pImpGWRG, pT GNKgTf rSGU ,GGyRUW GNKgTfNGUp RU pSG tURpGv wpmpG,6
PSR, rRgg RUogOvG m oTNKIGSGU,R3G vR,oO,,RTU mnTOp pSG NT,p oOIIGUp JNNRWIm_
pRTU mUv DmpOImgR&mpRTU wGI3RoG KTgRoRG, mUv KIToGvOIG,6
dmIGGI uKKTIpOURpRG, RU pSG RTgTWRomg woRGUoG, 
B9B7 K6N6
jGggTU JU,pRpOpG wToRmg sTTN LGggGiRGgv GUpImUoGH
PSG QGKmIpNGUp Ti RTgTWRomg woRGUoG, Sm, RU3RpGv mgONUR iITN vR3GI,G omIGGI, 
pT ,KGmy mnTOp pSGRI 1Tn, mUv omIGGI KmpS, m, rGgg m, WR3G mv3RoG mnTOp WGppRUW 
IGgmpGv ,ONNGI G4KGIRGUoG,6
uKGU pT mgg Nm1TI,6
wSTOgv J t,G m MGI,TUUGg aWGUof/
79F> K6N6
wyRnT 55.
J, m SGmvSOUpGI mU GiiGopR3G 1Tn ,GmIoS ,pImpGWf iTI NG pT O,G/ QT J Sm3G pSG 
G4KGIpR,G pSG,G iRIN, gTTy iTI/ PSG,G OG,pRTU, mUv TpSGI, rRgg nG mU,rGIGv 
nf jI6 mf mIIGgg Ti wpImO,, MGI,TUUGg6
smpRUW m Tn
 K6N6
wyRnT 55.
wTb fTO Sm3G m 1Tn TiiGI6 wSTOgv fTO mooGKp/ aIG fTO oTUiO,Gv T3GI rSRoS 
GNKgTfGI pT rTIy iTI/ hGmN STr pT G3mgOmpG m 1Tn TiiGI pSmp NGGp, fTOI 
KGI,TUmg mUv KITiG,,RTUmg WTmg,6 J,,OG, oT3GIGv rRgg nG 3mgOG,b oTNKGU,mpRTU 
mUv nGUGiRp,6
QIG,, iTI wOooG,, 
9F> K6N6
wyRnT mggITTN
8TI omIGGIxnTOUv RUvR3RvOmg,b pSR, ,STr rRgg KIG3RGr UTp TUgf nO,RUG,, mppRIG 
mUv vmRgf TiiRoG rGmIb nOp mg,T pSG WmINGUp, mUv mooG,,TIRG, UGGvGv iTI nO,RUG,, 
gOUoSGTU,b rGGyGUv pIRK,b G3GURUW G3GUp, Y pSG iOgg ImUWG Ti ogTpSRUW UGGv, iTI 
pSG oTUpGNKTImIf omIGGI KGI,TU6 dgTpSRUW mUv oTU,OgpRUW iTI pSG G3GUp rRgg nG 
KIT3RvGv nf Laura Ashley Inc. mUv Kouiitz and Rider Inc.. nTpS gTompGv RU 
wSmvf,RvG6 PRoyGp, rRgg WT TU ,mgG RU GmIgf 8GnIOmIfb mUv rRgg nG6 m3mRgmngG mp m 
NRURNmg oT,p6 a IGoGKpRTU rRgg KIGoGvG pSG im,SRTU ,STrb rRpS pSG vTTI, TKGU_
RUW mp 9F> K6N6
wKTU,TIGv nf pSG dmIUGWRG jGggTU lTO,RUW uiiRoG mUv wToRGpf Ti 
cTNGU eUWRUGGI,6
Monday, February 25
Career Week Follow-up
e3mgOmpRUW dTIKTImpG wToRmg sG,KTU,RnRgRpf
6B9F> K6N6
avmN,TU cRUW
wKGmyGI9 eNRgf wrmmnb dTOUoRg TU eoTUTNRo MIRTIRpRG,b KOngR,SGI of Rating 
America's Corporate Conscience.
PTrmIv PTNTIITr$, cTIgv QR,oO,,RTU wGIRG, Y MmIp JJ

---------------------------------------------------

dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccxp,
Animal world chaos slithers into humanism
I flick on some talk radio, and before I 
j^ow it theres this caller saying how she 
doesnt think its right the way we cut 
own Christmas trees each year and 
shortly after drag them out of our houses 
into the bitter cold. When she finishes 
speaking I ponder at length exactly what 
we put trees through in the name of 
spirit and good will.
By golly, maybe shes right.
The little sugar pine shudders at the 
thought of its abandoned state. Its a 
week after Christmas and as the night air 
takes on a sharp chill, countless Christ
mas trees, after being thrown out into the 
cold to die, begin to shower the ground 
with the dry tears that are their needles....
ENOUGH! THIS IS FOLIAGE WERE 
TALKING ABOUT HERE. Next well be 
opening up soup kitchens for unfortu
nate sycamores uprooted by the whims 
of Mother Nature.
If we really put our minds to it, there 
are numerous other plantsvegetables, 
perhaps  that are even more eligible 
recipients of our sympathy.
WHATEVER HAPPENED TO 
PLATINUM BLONDES?
by Andrew Cosentino
What about the plight of the black
eyed pea who, after being disgusted for 
centuries with the dark tint of his solitary 
pupil, has not the vocal capabilities to 
demand the assortment of colored contact 
lenses he so fervently desires? Peas lead 
lives of quiet desperation.
But why stop with plants and veg
etables? Why not open our arms even 
wider, welcoming the animal kingdom to 
rise to the level of the human world? 
Lets just hand over the earth to all our
tree and animal friends and abandon 
ship.
Go ahead.
Go outside right now and tell the first 
living thing that crosses your path, 
whether it be dandelion or cocker span
iel, that it is free to take over.
There are, however, some real dangers 
that can come out of all this. If were 
going to treat anything remotely alive as 
if it were human, weve got to be prepared 
to accept the wild, uni-class society which 
may lie ahead.
Our distinctly human colloquialisms 
alone are sure to cause great havoc once 
adopted by the other creatures of the 
planet. Just think of the shock youll feel 
when, on the way to the mailbox, youre 
accosted by a frenzied pack of yardstickwielding neighborhood canines, all tak
ing part in a futile effort to compare 
approximate measurements of their 
barks with those of their bites.
Or consider the neurosis the fox is sure 
to develop from the other animals refus
als to stop using his name at the end of
metaphors describing a particular level 
of craziness.
But the mass chaos will without doubt 
extend far beyond the realm of mammals. 
In the near future, support groups for 
confused earthworms will spend count
less hours contemplating the inevitabil
ity of death only to emerge with the same 
philosophically dissatisfying, cannibal
istic answer time and time again, We, 
my fellow burrowing invertebrates, are 
mere food for worms.
Try to picture an alligator named Biff 
on the way to the racquetball club with a 
little Homo sapiens patch over the right 
breast of his shirt, or the distinct ad
vantage the giraffe will have should a 
rash of rubbernecking break out during 
rush hour.
Of course theres always the question 
of whether or not we should allow the 
once mighty hippopotamus to roam the 
plains with the physique of J.J. Walker 
just because it wouldnt be fair to deny 
him the wonders of the NutriSystem.
Let me finally add that in this crazy
world toward which were all headed, no 
longer will the nimble cheetah be al
lowed to run free, uncontested as the 
fastest animal; instead, this Carl Lewis 
of the animal kingdom will be forced to 
remain within shouting distance at all 
times so that he may frequently submit 
samples of his urine to be tested.
This not only places a great burden on 
the cheetah, but on mankind as well. 
You think its easy getting a cheetah to 
go in a cup?
Ive got nothing against protecting the 
rights of every weed, mammal and 
crustacean on the planet, no matter how 
minute or insignificant.
But, to quote the insightful Dennis 
Miller, Maybe if we refocused a little of 
this housepet energy into tidying up the 
human condition, wed all be a little 
better off.
H&SS sophomore Andrew Cosentino 
is going to a steel plant next week, a deity 
for sugar pines that try not to be thrown 
out in the cold to die.Aggression, expression walk opposite sides of street
I will be the first to admit that 
I am a violent person. WheneverSoloflex commercial or a New 
Kids song comes on, I am invari
ably first in raising my arms in a 
pantomime machine gun and rid
ding the world of the nuisance.
In reality, I seldom have the 
motivation, physical strength, or 
courage to act upon my more vio
lent instincts. If I had my way, 
and unlimited ammunition, I 
would probably go out on target 
practice several times a day, rid
ding the world not only of casual 
nuisances such as jerks who 
scratch their fingernails across 
the blackboard but also the mon
strous sub-intellect who came up 
with the idea of making the cur
rent postage rate 29 cents.
Like everybody else, however, I 
have made the compromise of 
swallowing my frustration in ex
change for the privilege of being a 
member of civilized society. How
ever, I still cannot help but har
bor feelings of aggression. Con
sider last Wednesday. True, I had 
just been mugged, but I was nev
ertheless shocked by my capacity 
for hatred.
I was walking home at approxi
mately 11:30 on Tuesday night 
when a 16- orl 7-year-old who had 
been hiding on the opposite side 
of the street crossed to meet me. 
After a few minutes of small talk,
during which another young man 
crept out from behind a parked 
car, the first one pushed me into 
the side street. At that time three 
others emerged from their hiding 
places, surrounded me and al
lowed the first one to do all of the 
talking. Our initial exchange went 
something like this:
Mugger: Ill kick your fucking 
head off!
Me: What do you want?
Mugger: Ill kick your fucking 
head off!
Me: What do you want?
Mugger: Ill kick your fucking 
head off!
His intent clearly established, 
my assailant threw a kick at my 
hand, knocking from it the book I 
was holding. I started to bend 
down to pick up the book. Upon 
remembering that my assailants 
stated agenda involved kicking 
my fucking head off, I straight
ened myself back up.
Once the preliminary platitudes 
were over, we got down to the 
business of exchanging whatever 
valuables I had on me for the 
integrity of all the bones in my 
body. The book did not seem to 
hold their interest. Good thing, 
too; it was borrowed.
The mugger asked that I pro
duce my wallet. I explained to 
him that I was carrying no money, 
but that he was more than wel
WiyJyfl I
/
JaviVision
by Javier Griilo-Marxuach
come to the Columbia Record Club 
invoice I have been carrying with 
me since they shafted me on a 
pair of Aerosmith CDs last year. 
Apparently disarmed by the con
cept of an invoice, the gentleman 
carrying out the transaction 
looked to his older counterpart 
for guidance.
I still think that the whole affair 
was something of an initiation for 
him, since he kept looking to his 
senior for advice. Proud as I felt to 
have been the conduit for a young 
mans coming of age, I was hardly 
given the time to relish the mo
ment. He soon asked for my 
Walkman. The moment I took off 
my headphones (maybe thats why 
he had to repeat himself as much 
as he did...) I toyed with the idea 
of dropping it, as every character 
in every television show ever made 
always does. I did not drop the 
Walkman on the ground, but I 
distinctly remember that the 
theme from Mannix began to kick
inside my head soon thereafter.
The transaction over, the five 
young men ran off toward W alnut 
Street. Standing there after the 
fact, it took me a few seconds to 
realize that I had been mugged, 
in spite of the fact that the theme 
from Mannix was still kicking 
inside my head. I ran home, 
phoned.the police, and tended to 
my wounded pride.
It would not have been so bad if 
it had not been the second time in 
a month.
Even more troublesome than 
losing my Walkman was the 
strange feeling of cowardice that 
I felt sinking into me after every
thing was over. Not only did I feel 
a coward for not having resisted, 
but the whole event struck me as 
an act of cowardice. Five against 
one slightly overfed Tartan col
umnist entails little or no effort at 
all. I am not proposing that there 
is any honor in taking what be
longs to another, nor that I have a 
preference which I would like to 
exercise, but if one individual 
overpowered me in a fair fight, at 
least the crime would appear to 
have been earned.
The first time someone tried to 
rob me in Pittsburgh was an even 
greater act of cowardice. Three 
men in a car. pulled up to me, 
demanded under the threat of a 
gun that I hand over all of my
money. Once again, I offered the 
invoice. Convinced that I had no 
money, they accelerated away.
Being on the receiving end of 
the drive-through approach to 
larceny left me feeling somewhat 
degraded. I suppose that it is too 
much to ask for the human touch 
when it comes to being mugged, 
but the crime became all the more 
disturbing to me when, in think
ing back about both incidents, it 
struck me that neither one of these 
crimes seemed to be motivated by 
need or'greed.
I was lucky in that I was not 
hurt in either event. What I 
learned from them is that physi
cal injury, though many times 
the consequence of a robbery, or 
even the loss of personal property 
is not necessarily the end result of 
a casual incident such as the ones 
in which I was involved. In both 
cases it appeared as if the reason 
I was being picked on was not 
because of a definite sense of need, 
but because of someone elses de
sire to assert his own power by 
humiliating another.
I cannot claim to know the psy
chology of any of the people who 
mugged me. I can say that because 
I know that the instincts which 
lead me to disregard certain 
things as contemptible often lead 
me to thoughts of violence. Sometimes these feelings are as
cartoonish as that which moti
vates them, as when I pretend to 
machine-gun the New Kids. 
Sometimes these thoughts are 
frightening, as I spent all of the 
following day trying to convince 
myself that had the odds been 
even, I would have had no qualms 
about repeatedly smashing that 
teenagers head against the pave
ment.
I take comfort in the knowledge 
that I would never act upon such 
an instinct over a Sony Walkman. 
However, I cannot help but be 
troubled by the kinship between 
the feelings of aggression which I 
manage to channel into humor or 
writing and the knowledge that a 
similar anger and desire to prove 
oneself may be at the root of as
saults such as those to which I 
was subjected. I am also thank
ful, if naive, in the belief that at 
the source of what I consider to be 
self-expression lies the desire to 
exist in a place in which violence 
at the expense of others is not a; 
viable means of self-expression. ;
It pisses me off to no end that if 
I ever find that place, Im not 
going to be able to walk the streets 
to get there.
Tartan Features Hero Javier 
Grillo-Marxuach is a really 
nice guy. He enjoys reading, writ
ing, and arithmetic.Southern heritage bounces through memories of glory, grits
Even during break, my friends and I 
pulled an all-nighter, comparing notes 
on our different schools. In the morning, 
we went to a local restaurant for the 
breakfast bar complete with our favorites. 
Those of us in Northern schools welcomed 
the sight of our blessed Southern foods: 
sausage, biscuits, and hickory-smoked
But the most welcome of all was hominy grits.
We stepped up to the food bar. One 
friend in the group who has been in 
school in northern Ohio looked at me. I 
looked at her. We looked at each other 
over the mounds of real food ... it was a 
silent competition as to who could get to 
the grits first.
She raced to grab a plate and beat me 
to the steaming bowl of grits, piling it on 
her plate without sides of the other foods there.
I did the same, for there is nothing in 
Pittsburgh comparable to the taste of hominy grits.
SOUTHERN COMFORT
by Alison Carter
Why, do you ask, am I such a fan of 
grits?
Consider the nasties of that most de
bated foodstuff:
1. It is soft and indistinguishable from 
ground tofu.
2. It hardens like jello after an hour.
3. To those with a taste for spicy food, 
it has no taste at all except of watereddown tortillas.
However, in the South, the taste of 
grits is a tradition and a memory that 
cannot be forgotten.
Consider my fondest memory.
When my parents packed me off to 
summer camp in Sewanee during my 
grade-school years, grits were always 
served with the usual dry sausage, greasy 
bacon, and hard biscuits.
Everybody got the grits. The grits were 
the only thing that the cooks could pre
pare correctly  correctly meaning that 
there was no worse preparation of grits 
in the world. And with that, the fun 
began... we talked and drank our orange 
juice, picked at our food, and waited 
thirty minutes until the grits dried and 
hardened. We peeled the rubbery gel off 
the plastic trays, held it over the floor, 
and dropped it from three feet.
Boing.
The idea of bouncing grits may not be 
appetizing to grit-eaters, but it was a 
source of unrivaled morning fun for us 
Southern brats, being that we could not 
do much else nasty to the counselors. 
The maintenance people were not much 
fond of this long-held tradition, but to
our young minds there was none to com
pare.
Except, of course, the tradition of 
mixing blue gel toothpaste and mouth
wash in Dixie cups and dumping the mix 
on the heads of poor unsuspecting 
campers from a top floor dorm window.
The Smurf turd tradition did not last 
long  only a summer  as my room
mate and I noticed that our window was 
consistently avoided by frequent passersby.
However, the subject here is grits, not 
my shady past in khaki-collar crime.
The point is, my memories combined 
with my Southern heritage made me a 
fan of the indigestible ground lye-soaked 
com dish served with butter and cheese.
So, in that family restaurant, sur
rounded by the familiar twanging back
ground music and conversation, my 
friend and I drank an orange juice toast 
over plates piled high with our gelatinous 
white familiar.
Sometimes, with Camp Sewanee in
mind, I imagine walking into an Eat n 
Park here in Pittsburgh and growling tt 
the manager for not having grits, steak 
fingers, Rudys Farm sausage, and but
termilk biscuits on the menu.
However, I cant imagine people from 
Squirrel Hill walking into a Shone/s in 
Nashville and asking them why in the 
hell they didnt have potato pancakes 
and gefilte fish on the menu.
Unless, of course, Pittsburghers enjoy 
the funny looks they will receive ... and 
are prepared for the offer of a free bowl of 
grits  and maybe a side dish of some of 
that hickory-smoked bacon with a biscuit
 with their breakfast, compliments of 
Tennessee.
CFA freshman Alison Carter is in 
Highlander Cafe right now looking for 
the gelatinous white familiar to disguise 
as tofu for an unsuspecting Northerner 
who has never had the experience of go
ing to Camp Sewanee and doesnt know 
what a Smurf turd is.
WERE MORE THAN A MAILBOX!
X MIR3mpG jmRgnT4 sGUpmg666.B STOI mooG,, X tMwb Qlhb u3GIURWSp hGppGI,
X uiiRoG wOKKgRG, X MSTpToTKRG,X MmoyRUW mUv wSRKKRUW X Mm,,KTIp MSTpT,b Gpo6666
X O,RUG,, dmIv, X 8aX wGI3RoG
We specialize in packing and shipping ______computers worldwide_______
MT,pmg O,RUG,, mUv dTNNOURompRTU wGI3RoG,
L BOXES ETC. USA*
B5B wutPl dsaJk wPseeP MJdKxtM wesEJde aEaJhahe
CONVENIENT!. Y LOCATED NEAR FORBES A VENUE & CARNEGIE MUSEUM

---------------------------------------------------

ZOMWTHfV
Tar nwersw&trw'
a***.
S
mw&mes.
XM ^A/WV. 
MMocews. /
,rtce b MWJwp<mntt> 
deuceComicsmsTi/fcM/W&P wm Tcmz tnNeTws
saw , emtH.wm(xvnvetFOR
Qwm.
TWrt sniL 
ONC.Y .COOG3%.iM/k'JO 1/350,ax? m
xvnzpowc.
I WEAK 
MM&J'S UVP&tH&K.
V/MRUt)
HE'S JUST JEALOUS BECAUSE 
r ACCOMPLISH SO MUCH 
MORE THAN HE DOES. /
WHAT /S IT ? WHS. ITS A 
HUGE BIRO FOOT/ I'M 
GOING TO PRESS \T \N THE 
SNOW AMO MAKE EVERYONE 
THINK A TWO-TON CHICKAOEE 
- WALKED BS/
I GUESS TIME WEIGHS MORE 
HEAVILS OH SOME PEOPLE'S
HAND5 TUAN -------
OTHERS'. /JSi ,\
THAT'S RIGHT, 
MICHAEL. THAT*? WHY 16070
LOOK WHAT \ YiUAT IS \T 
I MADE, Jv-***-* 
HOBBES. J ^VX,
J.J., THERE ARB-OTHER 
REASONS W 
GO TO BED. 
OR HAVE YOU 
FORGOTTEN?
MIKE, THIS ISN'T THE 
TIME OR PLACE TO 
DISCUSS THIS.
YOU GOING RIGHT TO 
SLEEP AGAIN?
SEEMS LIKE 
YOURE TIRED EVERY NIGHT.
SHE'SFORGOTTEN.UH-HUH..
I'MTIRED...
THEN WE COUU) LINE BARRELS 
AND STUFE DOHH THE DR.WEWM
ANO SEE HCW ------
MWS Vi COUlD gQ / 
CLEAR! WOBHT 
THAT BE ^<^-(2 
GREAT ?.pyLjx <\
I'LL SHOVEL AND PACK THE 
SNOW \NTO A B\G RAMP/ '(OU 
CAH GET IN THE CAR, REV UP 
j TO NEAR RED UNE, TURCW CUT 
I THE CLUTCH, LEAVE A PATCH 
| Of W5LTEN RUBBER. OJT THE 
|GARAGE, AND ZCOM OP THE 
yi __ RAMP/
HES DAD, '(OU KNOW HOW 
'fCU WANTED ME TO SHOMEL 
THE DRWEWAS ?
WEli I THCWSHT /
OP A BETTER. /V Z= 
. IDEA !
LET ME GET THIS STRAIGHT. WERE 
NOT HAVING SEX BECAUSE SOME IDIOT ON THE RADIO SAID THAT PEOPLE OUR AGE NO LONGER 
HAVE TIME FOR TT?
ITS GOT EVERYTHING TO DOUJfTH 
IT, MIKE ! I HEARD TTON MARK'S 
RADIO SHOW. THE ONLY MARRIED PEOPLE OUR AGE WHO STILL HAVE 
TIME FOR SEX ARE DOSE TRYING, JOYLESSLY, TO MAKE . 
?l BABIES!
MIK3.THE FACT IS. WHAT'S
LIFE IS BUSY, AND THAT'S GOT 
GETTING BUSIER TO DO WITH 
EVERYDAY. IT? / A
_  I'M GSINI MIKE, ITS A one a BOWL 
PROVEN TREND. OF OAT BRAN ACCSPT IT! /
I SUPPOSE \F I HAD 
TWO X CHROMOSOMES, 
IP FEEL HOSTILE TCO.
6UESS WHAT 
J. J. AND I 
HAVEN'T DONE ONCE IN THE 
LAST FOUR WEEKS!
Imzzz f cSha
SNAKE'S GOT ME/
AT LEAST I HAVE A 
LIFE ...UNLIKE SOME 
WEIRDOS I KNOW.
dminstra ohhai kaake mh 
oku uaEsiskarx -mGshl 
fEEai csd tPhau sia 
Efrrxhl -a Omdh oku 
,ioloO lfrrakS ifh 
v ,mip GCmfi ro,a S v
YIKES... 
THAT'S 
TERRIBLE. 
SOMEBODY 
BETTER TAKE THE
isiwiSwirnl
MORNING.GLOOMY
GUS/OUEPASA?
YOU LET IT GO, 
AND BAMONE DAY YOUR PLANTS ARE 
ALL DEAD!
IM 
KJORKJN' ON n
w sawuis 
ThoTbp 
Thv,cgym 
. LvKl
SHES YOUR 
DAUGHTER. 
I WOULDN'T 
WANT TO 
HAZARP 
A GUESS.
Y0UD0N7 WHAVS ODD
THINK J.J.'S iSfSStS BEHAVIOR'S 7 SLEEP AS AUTTL3 SOON AS YOUQppz GETIMOBED?
ZONKER, A MAR- njunj 
RJAGE IS MORE 
THAN SLEEPING r^J YOU 
NEXT TO ONE po NANOTHER... pep
 L5 L' Pfnwum
haPpssevPR, 
8eces 
\ B4+HS
NO ONE ELSE AT THE 
OFFICE TALKS ABOUT 
THIS KIND OF THING. .
JSSr ANIMPR03-TALKING THEORY,
STORK I ADMIT, BUT
NO M0R3 FARFETCHED WE? THAN SEX.
ZONKER, WHERE DO YOU THINK 
ALEX CAME FROM?
I LIKE SLEDDING DOWN 
HILLS, BUT I HATE HAVING 
---------- To CLIMB BACK
ITS TOO MUCH 
WORK-' IT'S 
BORING/ \T'S 
SLOW / /
I KNOW/ I'LL SIT ON THE 
Sled and YOU PULL ME 
UP, OK ? RUN .jf, , 
AS FAST AS
10U CAN, AND lx  f 
ZIGZAG AROJND 
TREES AND STUFF/ / -O
HEY, J.J./ OH, GREAT, MIKE/WHAT IS TEIL ZONKER, OF
TT, EXACT- ALL PEOPLE, ALL
LY, THAT ABOUT OUR SEXYOU AND LIFE!MIKE PONT Ay
DO IN BED?
DOtnwOm UELL.L..HBY! YOU'RE HE DIDN'T WEARING W SHIRT
UNDERSTAND I GAVE YOU! GOD, 
A WORD YOU LOOK REALLYI SAID HOT,
ANYWAY MIKE.'f^X A
y YOU GOT j
WAT RIGHT! W
EVEN Ml FRIENDS 
DONT DO WHAT I WANT.THATSm 
I GOTTA 
 RUN...
HOLD IT! 
LET AIE STAND 
CLEAR!
I CAKT TEH. } IF DOES NT LOOK 
WHAT IT IS. J LIKE ANYTHING 
CAN SOU ? J FROM MERE.
CALNINS BEEN OUTSIDE 
BU\LD\NG SOMETHING SINCE 
EARLS TU\S MORNING.
IT WAS JUST KN0WIN6 THAT, NO MATTER WHAT,. 
YOUDALWAYS BE A THERE FOR ME! .M
BUT ONE ] 
THING HAS ALUlAYSKEPT] 
ME GOING. 
YWmJTTO KNOW WHAT \ 
THAT SOME
THING Wi&?\
YOU KNOW, dd, 
WE'VE HAP OUR SHARE OF 
GLITCHES IN ^THtSMAR-A
m-RiAce.m
THBRE.
SsEPSEl
f

---------------------------------------------------

By GARY LARSON0 P0U6- Me
] -AM
.ifirry bfia flauaeous worm.
WHAT'6 'iOOp PbisoH v J6RRV?
'Lodiat
W Gas ! w/iaV the Kell /ou doin' ? 'I 
PSR, R, "Bine k/eine Uachfmusik," pSRIv 
movement, minuel allegretto, you 
jjBSL brainless Wned load.' ^ESO&
MBS?1? WggR0
Oootr pGI1
the
trrillmg
concteicn
Oh, my! Cindy! This looks exquisite!... And look, 
Frank  it even has a cheeseball stuffed in its 
mouth!"Cattle drive quartets
atmMotfOKO.'TW
SctfKT 15 
MU pw*a>..
tfT^s/ ru. jwr tnv6 
Cr g wIpmpI cPRipIpTRac
r Awg W.U Move <wr/ lpRlCKmTMPQ5RGP>1LK66
$T11f assI 5? ttctfcVT H4> " t) fftcu) Lp
'S ^
aAY, \( Yo4t peeny I 
0X...WWHT \  $IpO 7pK dlBx R
SWJ/TToJ <2mY? ,
J*
g\rER) RpR 
...Ai lrt5ycr^Tt' Cbua*6, *W0 
J iorI Opj <tVx clY6
lTr aj IITKipG,Z/
Pu la1G Fhuutj tM jR1h 
U3II atiGj mine?
( WW AM I SOp&D Y '
il T WMt PONE/ / WU.,
jj|iv__________ . -IV w FACT
E>c dtPwb Y3h OI pnT Kcuc 5 
Tfcrto>*fcsf.
io&pH Pu Ptc 1Oj1p
HeiiowaiTD us... ^
RIIKIII 66ajQcPtc 
V:!)f HER cwtri !v!!\ to -rte AJWW(? >
gur New 7MT ftfc ar vbo, 
CWC6 X Tl^aJ '(feu OUM. -Tb 
P aRiGc ddsM7b jE 
Du X cJhh kxPq ahh KJDQw 
BOMUSS/ Amo PRPhT'OtX?
***> VACATlONS'f/uy//
MAKEME.
DeJh666
vBygw
IfON)
oh Boy/ IT'S A Aiuy PVMP6KNICK6LyHffE.
SM, IS THIS f EdioE- *fNNVJWj&
r yn,[youiojrvwBmiNI
/Hey'AgqWoogvioosu 
CiDC lChM JiMSWxoTby-BUlLtHNO.
nDsio fTRD
68*V ALRSApy?? i'm ofJt.y 
Af/crmu CHAHM*!)
"w/oosty??$>0/W LOST YoOR KWRBi5/^3^D CKftEER CHOICE
MAAAYYY/
 On,NcpPdlMMPTT MANy w*.fvmie* fiuti.
I AL WAVS WA^TR> \ UCT'5 6o 
TDG Df PlG,Gb hmfD,g ,lo cIRGj J Nm, a sRK m |gR3GI
Look! THERE 5H6 $/ HoW
CoNVNieNT/J(r
vm, lGfxJ$Ee huwP
CoNTKoi.!
waj$w aaDQuDeQ 
casl>twe7b Jjd6 |
comics continued on L10yoO'Re HEAPBP RI6HT 
8TW PlG WtN&o W/S I

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
Final Examination Policy and Schedule
Office of the Registrar 
Spring, 1991
POLICY
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration 
of final examinations for the Undergraduate courses:
May
1234
567891011
12131415161718
19202122232425
2627282930311. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for exam purposes of any kind;
3.. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam sothat people can leave earlier.
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given finals day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of the student's choosing during the final exam period;
8. any student shall be permitted to see his/her corrected, graded final exam in the presence of an instructor, provided the exam is not in the student's possession;
9. all final exams shall be returned to students, or be kept available to students for a period of not less than one year;
10. in the event that a teaching assistant is unable to fulfill part 8 or part 9, the responsibility shall rest with the course instructor;
11. in the event that an instructor is unable to fulfill part 8, 9, or 10, the responsibility shall rest with the department in which the course was offered;
12. it is assumed that instructors will return all work assigned before the final exam period. Thus, instructors are not responsible for retaining unclaimed coursework.
NOTE: COMPLAINTS ABOUT VIOLATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION POLICY OR ALTERATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO 
THE APPROPRIATE DEPARTMENT HEAD.
THIS FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE IS ALSO FOUND ON THE VAX BBOARD SYSTEM UNDER "OFFICIAL-REGISTRAR-INFO" AND ON THE ANDREW BBOARD SYSTEM 
UNDER "OFFICIAL.REGISTRAR-INFO".
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03121MODERN BIOLOGYTHUMAY91:00-4:00PMDH2210
03122ORGANISMIC BOTANYTUEMAY145 : 30-8 :30PMDH1112
03331BIOCHEMISTRY ITHUMAY95 : 30-8 :30PMDH1212
03350DEVELOPMNTL BIOLOGYTUEMAY141: 00-4 :00PMDH1212
03438PHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRYMONMAY135 : 30-8 :30PMDH2122
03441MOL BIO PROKARYOTETHUMAY98 : 30-11:30AMPH126B
0-3738PHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRYMONMAY135 : 30-8 :30PMDH2122
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06151THERMODYNAMICSWEDMAY158 : 30-11:30AMDH1112
06152TRANSPORT PROCESS IFRIMAY101: 00-4 :00PMDH1112
06202UNIT OPERATIONSFRIMAY101: 00-4 :00PMWEH! 5427
06304ECON & OPTIMIZATIONMONMAY131: 00-4 :00PMPH225C
06606COMP MTH L SC PR DSTHUMAY95 : 30-8 :30PMDH1209
06619SEMICON PROCESS TECHTUEMAY141:00-4:00PMDH1209
06702ADVANCED KINETICSTUEMAY75 : 30-8 :30PMDH1112
06704ADV HEAT MASS TRANSWEDMAY158 : 30-11:30AMWEH: 5403
18233INTR TO SOL ST PHYSTUEMAY148 : 30-11: 30AMSH206
18308INTRO TO DIGTL COMMTHUMAY91: 00-4 : 00PMPH126C
18349CNCUR REAL TIME SYSWEDMAY158 : 30-11:30AMWEH 7500
18354INTRO DATA STORAGETUEMAY71: 00-4 : 00PMPH126A
18450DIGTL SYS MODEL SIMTHUMAY95 : 30-8 : 30PMSH324
18702FIN EL METH EL ENGRWEDMAY158 : 30-11:30AMSH224
18716ADV APPL MAGNETISMFRIMAY101: 00-4 : 00PMWEH[ 5205
18813OPTICAL ELECTRONICSTHUMAY91: 00-4 : 00PMDH1217
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POLICY
19100TECHNOLOGY & PEOPLETHUMAY95 : 30-8 : 30PMDH2210,1
19319LAW & THE ENGINEERTUEMAY141: 00-4 : 00PMSH125
19710MGT/PRACT ENVRN ENGRTHUMAY95 : 30-8 : 30PMPH12 6A
SOCIAL AND DECISION SCIENCES
CHEMISTRY
09104CH ASP ORG BIO MTLTHUMAY91
o
0
100PMDH1212
09105MODERN CHEMISTRY IFRIMAY101
o
0
1
>00PMWEH7500
09106MODERN CHEMISTRY IITUEMAY14830-11: 30AMDH2210
09144PHYSICAL CHEMISTRYTUEMAY7830-11: 30AMDH1112
09218ORGAN CHEMISTRY IIMONMAY135
LO
O
1
CO30PMDH2315
0924 6PHYSCL CHEMISTRY IITUEMAY7830-11: 30AMDH1212
09752MGNTC RES SPCTRSCPYFRIMAY10830-11: 30AMMI355
88103DECISION MAKINGTUEMAY' 75:30-8:30PMDH2210
88201DATA BASE MGMNT SYSTHUMAY95:30-8:30PMADAMSON
88221POLICY ANALYSIS IIWEDMAY158:30-11:30AMPH226C
88223DEC AN DEC SUP SYSTTUEMAY7
i
o
o
ii00PMADAMSON
88241EMPIRCL RSCH MTH IITUEMAY145:30-8:30PMPH100
88312POLITICAL PSYCHMONMAY131:00-4:00PMDH2105
88321CAMPAIGNS/ELECTIONSFRIMAY108:30-11:30AMPH126A
88333COLD WAR HSTRCL PERSMONMAY135:30-8:30PMBH2-3 IB
88338HEALTH CARE POLICYTHUMAY91:00-4 :00PMPH225B
88753CAUSAL MODELINGTUEMAY75:30-8:30PMPH226C
MATHEMATICS
21111CALCULUS IWEDMAY15830-11:30AMDH 1212
CIVIL ENGINEERING21112CALCULUS IIWEDMAY15830-11:30AMDH 2210
J21121CALCULUSTHUMAY9830-11:30AMWEH 7500
12100INT CREAT ENG/INNOVTHUMAY95:30-830PMSH12521122CALCULUS W LIN ALGFRIMAY10830-11:30AMDH 2210,DH2315,
12110INTRO ENGR ECONTHUMAY91:00-400PMPH225CWEH 7500,SH 125
12208DYNAMICSWEDMAY158 : 30-11: 30AMADAMSON21127INTRO TO MDRN MATHMONMAY13100-400 PMDH 2210 
12212SOLID MECHANICSTUEMAY71:00-400PMPH125C21228DISCRETE MATHWEDMAY15100-400PMWEH 7500
12315MATERIALSMONMAY131:00-400PMSH12521257OPTMZTN FOR SOC SCIFRIMAY10100-400PMDH 2210
12325SOIL MECHANICSTUEMAY148 : 30-11: 30AMADAMSON21259CALCULUS IN 3-DTUEMAY14100-400PMDH 2210
12602SYS ANALY CIV ENGRTUEMAY78 : 30-11: 30AMPH126A21260DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSTUEMAY14530-830PMDH 2210', DH2315,
12621STRUCTURAL MECH IIMONMAY138 : 30-11: 30AMPH12 6AWEH 7500
12627GEOTECH ENGINEERINGTUEMAY78 : 30-11: 30AMPH126C21292OPERATIONS RSCH ITUEMAY14830-11:30AMDH 2315
12632WATER RESOURCE ENGRTHUMAY98 : 30-11: 30AMPH126C21301COMBINATORIAL ANALYMONMAY13100-400PMWEH 6423
12635WATER QUALITY ENGRMONMAY135:30-830PMPH126C21341LINEAR ALGEBRATUEMAY7100-400PMDH 2210,DH2315
12640CMPTR-AID TOOLS C EFRIMAY105:30-830PMPH126A21371FUNC CMPLX VARIABLETUEMAY7530-830PMWEH 6423
12705ADV TECH IN PROJ MGTFRIMAY108:30-11 :30AMPH126C %21372PART DIFF EQUATIONSFRIMAY10530-830PMWEH 6423
12710MGT/PRACT ENVRN ENGRTHUMAY95:30-830PMPH126A21455ADVANCED CALCULUSTUEMAY14830-11:30AMWEH 5427
12721GR WTR HYDRLGY CHEMWEDMAY151:00-400PMPH126A21473ALGEBRAIC STRUCTFRIMAY10830-11:30AMDH 1112,DH1212
12724ADV TPC AIR POLLUTNTUEMAY71:00-400PMPH126C21474FIELD THEORYTHUMAY9530-830PMWEH 6423
12726MATH MDL ENV QUA SYFRIMAY101:00-400PMPH12 6A21480SPECIAL RELATIVITYTUEMAY7530-830PMWEH 8427
12749SPEC TOPICS IN CAETUEMAY75:30-830PMPH126A21483OPTIMIZATIONTUEMAY7530-830PMWEH 5427
12756FINITE ELEM MECH IITHUMAY95:30-830PMPH126B21484APPL GRAPH THEORYTUEMAY14530-830PMWEH 5403
12758BOUND EL MTHDS MECHMONMAY135:30-830PMPH126A21610ALGEBRA IFRIMAY10830-11-.30AMWEH 5403
21700MATHEMATCL LOGIC IIMONMAY13100-400PMWEH 5205
COMPUTER SCIENCE
MECHANICALENGINEERING
15200DATA STRUCTURESTUEMAY71:00-400PM 'WEH5427
15211FUND STRUC CMP SC IWEDMAY158 : 30-11:30AMDH231524112FLUID MECHANICSTHUMAY9830-11:30AMHH B103,HHB131
15212FUND STRC CMP SC IIFRIMAY105:30-830PMDH221024202MECH DFRMBL SOLIDSFRIMAY10100-400PMDH 2315
15246INTRO TO COMPUT ARCWEDMAY158:30-11:30AMPH10024216GAS DYNAMICSMONMAY13830-11:30AMSH 125
15247INTRO TO COMPUT ARCWEDMAY158 : 30-11: 30AMPH10024233HEAT TRANSFERWEDMAY15830-11:30AMHH B103,HHB131
15312PROG LANG DES PROCTUEMAY78:30-ll:30AMWEH542724246FEEDBK CNTRL SYSTMSTHUMAY9830-11:30AMSH 125
15381ARTFL INT RP PR SLVFRIMAY105:30-830PMDH231524295AIR POLLUTIONMONMAY13100-400PMSH 220
15385 A I COMPUT VISIONMONMAY138 : 30-11: 30AMDH1212
15411COMPILER DESIGNMONMAY131:00-400PMWEH5427METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AND MATERIALSSCIENCE
15412OPERATING SYSTEMSTUEMAY75:30-830PMWEH7500
15414STR PRGRMG PRG PROVMONMAY135:30-830PMWEH642327131INTRO MATERIALS SCIMONMAY13530-830PMDH 2210,MM103
15451ALGORITHMSFRIMAY101:00-400PMDH121227201MATERIALS ITHUMAY9100-400PMWEH 540315499SP TPCS CMPTR SCITHUMAY98 : 30-11: 30AMWEH542727215THERMODYNAMICSTUEMAY7100-4OOPMWEH 540315612DISTRIB SYSTMSFRIMAY108 : 30-11:30AMWEH542727312MATERIALS SCI IIITUEMAY7530-830PMWEH 5205
27322PROCESS METALLURGYTHUMAY9530-830PMWEH 5205ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTERENGINEERING27432ELEC MAG OPT PR MAGSFRIMAY10100-400PMWEH 6423
27442PLAST FRAC OF MTLSTUEMAY7830-11:30AMWEH 5403
18101LINEAR CIRCUITSTHUMAY91:00-400PMHHB103,HH B131,27532MTL ASP SMCND DV IITHUMAY9830-11:30AMWEH 5205
SH12527552CERAMICS & GLASSESMONMAY13530-830PMWEH 5205
18102ELCTRN DEVICES CIRCFRIMAY101:00-400PMPH10027780THERMODYNAMICSTUEMAY7100-400PMWEH 5205
18113FUND OF ELEC ENGRFRIMAY108 : 30-11: 30AMHHB103,HH B13127781TRANSPORTFRIMAY10830-11:30AMWEH 5205
18133INTR TO DIGITAL SYSTHUMAY95:30-830PMHHB103,HH B13127785THRY ALLOY PHASESTHUMAY9100-400PMWEH 5205
18202ENGR ELECTROMAG IITHUMAY91:00-400PMPH10027787FRACTURE MECHANICSTUEMAY7830-11:30AMWEH 5205
18218SIGNALS & SYSTMS IITHUMAY95:30-830PMWEH7500 
18221AN DES ANALOG CIRCTUEMAY78 : 30-11: 30AMWEH7500

---------------------------------------------------

PHYSICSECONOMICS
33103PHYS FOR BLDG SCITUEMAY141
o
0
100PMWEH 7500
33113PHYS MUSICAL SOUNDTUEMAY14830-11:30AMDH 1212
33116INTRODUCT PHYSICSTUEMAY14830-11:30AMWEH 7500
33121PHYSICS I MECHANICSTUEMAY71
o
0
100PMWEH 7500
33122PHYSICS II HT WV OPTUEMAY7830-11:30AMDH 2210,DH2315
PH100, HH B103
HH B131, SH125
33123PHYSICS III L MAGTHUMAY9830-11:30AMPH 100
33125INTRO TO ASTRONOMYTHUMAY91
o
0
100PMDH 1112
33131PHYSCL MECHANICS IIWEDMAY15830-11:30AMWEH 5427
33134QUANTUM PHYSICS ITHUMAY9-1
o
0
1
JS.00PMWEH 7316
33438INTRM ELEC & MAG IITUEMAY145
co
1
o
m30PMDH 1212
33442INTRO STAT PHYSICSTUEMAY75
co
1
o
co30PMWEH 7316
33444INTRO NUCLEAR PHYSWEDMAY151
o
0
1
ifc00PMWEH 8427
33446ADV QUANTUM PHYSICSTHUMAY95
OJ
0
1
OD30PMWEH 8427
33448INTRO SOLID ST PHYSFRIMAY101
o
0
100PMWEH 7316
33756QUANTM MECHANICS IIMONMAY13830-11:30AMWEH 7316
33760INTRO THEO PHYS IIFRIMAY10830-11:30AMWEH 7316
33761CLASSCL ELCTRODYN ITUEMAY7830-11:3 0AMWEH 8427
STATISTICS
36210PRB AP STA MG SS IITHUMAY98 : 30-11:30AMDH2210,
36220ENGR STAT QUAL CTRLFRIMAY105 : 30-8 :30PMADAMSON
36226INTRO PRB & STAT IIFRIMAY101: 00-4 :00PMMM103
36326PROB & MATH STAT IITHUMAY95 : 30-8 :30PMBH255A
36410ELEM APPL PROBABLTYTHUMAY98 : 30-11:30AMPH225C
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
42100INTR TO BIOMED ENGRMONMAY131: 00-4 :00PMADAMSON
42501PHYSIOLOGYTUEMAY71 : 00-4 :00PMDH2200
42604BIO TRNS PHRMCKNTCSTUEMAY148 : 30-11:30AMDH1211
42624ADV TPC AIR POLLUTNTUEMAY71: 00-4 :00PMPH126C
42652MUSCULOSKEL BIOMECHTUEMAY71:00-4:00PMSH422
42680BIOINST BIOINF PROCFRIMAY108 : 30-11:30AMDH1209
42704BIO TRNS PHRMCKNTCSTUEMAY148 : 30-11:30AMDH1211
42736PHYSIOLOGYTUEMAY71:00-4:00PMDH2200
42752MUSCULOSKEL BIOMECHTUEMAY71:00-4 :00PMSH422
42780BIOINST BIOINF PROCFRIMAY108 : 30-11:30AMDH1209
ARCHITECTURE
48135GEOMETRYTHUMAY91: 00-4 : 00PMADAMSON
48140INTRO TO ARCH HSTRYTUEMAY148 : 30-11: 30AMMM 103
48215STRUCTURESMONMAY138 : 30-11: 30AMMM 103
48254PANTHEON & ITS CHILDTUEMAY148 : 30-11: 30AMCFA 211
4825519TH CENT. ARCH.THUMAY98 : 30-11: 30AMMM 103
48310ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTMTHUMAY91: 00-4 : 00PMMM A14
48321PSYCH OF HABITATIONFRIMAY101: 00-4 : 00PMMM A14
48337INTRO ISLAMIC ARCHTHUMAY95:30-8:30PMCFA 212
48410TOTAL BLDG PERFORMTUEMAY145 :30-8 : 30PMMM 103
48420DESIGN ECONOMICSFRIMAY105 : 30-8 : 30PMMM 103
48442FOUR MASTERS MDRNSMTHUMAY98 :30-11: 30AMCFA 211
48443LEC IN ARCH MDRNSMMONMAY135 : 30-8 : 30PMCFA 211
48448EMPERICAL DES METHDSTUEMAY141:00-4:00PMCFA 211
DESIGN
51201DES PRNC HST TH DESTUEMAY78 : 30-11: 30AMMM 103
MUSIC
57152 THEORY II
A FRI MAY 10 5:30-8:30PM CFA M157
B FRI MAY 10 5:30-8:30PM CFA M160
C FRI MAY 10 5:30-8:30PM MM 127
57174 SURVEY OPERA HSTRY TUE MAY 14 5:30-8:30PM CFA M160
57203 MED REN BAROQ MUS HS TUE MAY 7 1:00-4:00PM CFA Ml.60
5720.5 20TH C MUSIC HISTORY TUE MAY 14 8:30-11:30AM CFA M160
57224 THEORY IV
A MON MAY 13 8:30-11:30AM CFA M157
B MON MAY 13 8:30-11:30AM CFA Ml60
5725820TH CENT TECHNQUESTUE MAY71
i
o
o00PMCFA M157
57266FUGUETUE MAY14530-830PMMM 127
57272ORCHESTRATION IIITUE MAY14100-400PMCFA Ml57
57306MUS LANG ASIA/AFRICA MON MAY13530-830PMCFA M157
57345WOODWIND METHODSWED MAY15830-11:30AMCFA Ml57
57346STRING METHODSFRI MAY10530-830PMMM 116
57375MUSIC ELEM SCHOOLSMON MAY138
OJ
0
1
H*
OJ
oMM 116
5 7 4 0'9STRAVINSKYTHU MAY98
OJ
0
1
OJ
oCFA M157
57806MUS LANG ASIA/AFRICA MON MAY13530-830PMCFA M157
57809STRAVINSKYTHU MAY9,8
OJ
0
1
11
OJ
oCFA M157
57882MUSIC ELEM SCHOOLSMON MAY13830-11:30AMMM 116
57886WOODWIND METHODSWED MAY15830-11:30AMCFA M157
57887STRING METHODSFRI MAY10530-830PMMM 116
H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARY
66302RELIG WORLDS PEOPLETUE MAY7830-11:30AMPH 225C
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT
70101ELEM INDUSTRL ADMINTUE MAY7530-830PMSH 125
70121FINANC ACCOUNTING
A, DMON MAY 13100-4 : 00PM PH 100
B, CMON MAY 13100-4 : 00PM DH 2315
70160INTR GRA CMNCTNS IFRI MAY10100-400PMSH 125
70311ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR I
AWED MAY 15830-11: 30AM DH 2200
BWED MAY 15830-11:30AM PH 225C
CWED MAY 15830-11: 30AM MM A14
70312ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR IITUE MAY7100-400PMPH 100
70332GOVRNMNT & BUSINESS
ATHU MAY 9530-8 : 30PM MM 103
BTHU MAY 9530-8 : 30PM PH 100
70361FOUNDATIONS OF LAWTUE MAY7530-830PMPH 125C
70363LAW MDRN AMER SOCTHU MAY9530-830PMPH 225C
70369MERGERS & ACQUISITNTHU MAY9100-400PMWEH 5427
70371PRODUCTION ITUE MAY14100-400PMPH 100
70381MARKETING I
A, BMON MAY 13530-8 : 30PM WEH 7500
CMON MAY 13530-8 : 30PM PH 225C
70391FINANCE IFRI MAY10830-11:30AMPH 100
70422COST ACCOUNTINGMON MAY13100-400PMMM 103
70430INTERNATNL MGMNTFRI MAY10530-830PMBH 235B
70451MGMNT INFORMATN SYSMON MAY13830-11:30AMPH 100
70456MGMNT INFO SYS APPLS MON MAY13830-11:30AMWEH 6423
70481MARKETING IIWED MAY15830-11:30AMPH 126A
70491FINANCE IITUE MAY14830-11:30AMPH 125B
73100PRINC OF ECONOMICSWEDMAY151: 00-4:00PMDH2210,
73250INTERMED MICROECONWEDMAY151: 00-4 :00PMPH100
73300INTERMED MACRECON
A, B WED MAY 151:: 00-4 :00PM MM 103
C WED MAY 151 :: 00-4 :00PM ADAMSON
73340LABOR ECONOMICSTUEMAY145 : 30-8 :30PMPH125B
73351PUBLIC FINANCETHUMAY98 : 30-11:30AMPH126A
73358ECO ENVRN NATUR RESTUEMAY145 : 30-8 :30PMSH125
73360ECONOMETRICS
A, B FRI MAY 105:: 30-8 :30PM WEH 5403
73380STRAT ECON & POLITICTUEMAY78 : 30-11: 30AMPH125C
73458MONEY AND BANKINGTUEMAY75 : 30-8 : 30PMPH225C
ENGLISH
76101READING TEXTS
I FRI MAY 105:: 30-8:30PM PH 225C
J FRI MAY 105:: 30-8 : 30PM BH 237B
76237THE MODERN NOVELFRIMAY108 : 30-11: 30AMBH231A
76291DISC HSTRCL CHANGE
A THU MAY 95:: 30-8 : 30PM BH 231B
76292RDG 20TH C CULTURETUEMAY71: 00-4 : 00PMBH235A
76321SPC TP: DCMNT VISUALTHUMAY91:00-4:00PMPH226C
76322S TP RD BLT LANDSCAPMONMAY135:30-8:30PMBH237B
7633318TH C LIT/CULT STUDFRIMAY108 : 30-11:30AMBH -235A
7633419TH LIT/CULT ST VICTUEMAY145 : 30-8 : 30PMBH235A
76335GREEK TRAGEDYTHUMAY91: 00-4 : 00PMBH235A
7636420TH CENTURY POETRYTUEMAY141: 00-4 : 00PMBH235B
76429HIS DISC OF ENGLISHTUEMAY145 : 30-8 : 30PMPHA19C
76454VAR OF PRAC CRITICSMTHUMAY98 : 30-11:30AMBH255B
76488CNTMP THEO INVENTIONMONMAY131: 00-4 : 00PMBH255B
7673419TH LIT/CULT ST VICTUEMAY145 : 30-8 : 30PMBH235A
7676420TH CENTURY POETRYTUEMAY141 : 00-4 : 00PMBH235B
76829HIS DISC OF ENGLISHTUEMAY145 : 30-8 :30PMPHA19C
76854VAR OF PRAC CRITICSMTHUMAY98 : 30-11:30AMBH255B
76888CNTMP THEO INVENTIONMONMAY131: 00-4:00PMBH255B
HISTORY
79102 SHAPING WSTRN CIV MON MAY 13 8:30-11:30AM WEH 7500
79104 INTRO TO WORLD HIST MON MAY 13 8:30-ll:30AM DH 2210,DH 2315.
79120 DEV OF AMER SOCIETY
B FRI MAY 10 8:30-11:30AM ADAMSON
C FRI MAY 10 8:30-11:30AM PH 225B
D FRI MAY 10 8:30-11:30AM MM 103
79124 INDUSTRIAL AMERICA
A TUE MAY 7 8:30-11:30AM BH 237B
B TUE MAY 7 8:30-11:30AM BH 235A
79213SOCIOLOGY IN HISTORYWEDMAY15
o
ro
i
o
ro
coBH235A
79219ETHNOGRAPHIC FILMTUEMAY75 : 30-8 :30PMADAMSON
79220CNTMP AMER IN FILMMONMAY135 : 30-8 :30PMADAMSON
79232ROLE MEN MDRN WRLDMONMAY135 : 30-8 :30PMSH125
79245CHAR IDEALS AMER HISWEDMAY158 : 30-11: 30AM,PH225B
79246HIS AMER WORK CLASSFRIMAY108:30-11:30AMBH235B
79252NEW TPCS SOC HSTRYTUEMAY78 : 30-11:30AMBH235B
79254CHILD WEL & JUV JUSTTHUMAY98 : 30-11:30AMBH235A
79262WOMEN CNTMP SOCIETYTHUMAY9_5 : 30-8 :30PMBH235A
79311SOC SCIENCE MTHDSTUEMAY14*1: 00-4 :00PMBH255A
79324AFRO-AMER HIST IIMONMAY138 :30-11:30AMBH231A
79331MODERN CHINATUEMAY75 : 30-8 :30PMPHA20
79333COLD WAR HSTRCL PERSMONMAY135 : 30-8 :30PMBH231B
79343IRISH HISTORYMONMAY131:00-4:00PMWEH 5403
79359TCHNLGY & ORGANIZATNTUEMAY145 : 30-8 :30PMADAMSON
79414SOV UN UND GORBACHEVMONMAY138 : 30-11:30AMBH255A
PHILOSOPHY
80210INTRO TO LOGICTUEMAY145 : 30-8 :30PMPH126B
80220PHILOS OF SCIENCETUEMAY141: 00-4 :00PMADAMSON
80250TPCS IN THE HISTORYMONMAY131:00-4:00PMPH126C
80311LOGIC ARTFCL INTELLFRIMAY101:00-4:00PMPH126C
80410LOGIC COMPUTBLTY IITUEMAY145 : 30-8 :30PMPH126C
80711LOGIC ARTFCL INTELLFRIMAY101:00-4:00PMPH126C
MODERN LANGUAGES
82102ELEMENTARY FRENCH IITUEMAY148 :30-11:30AMPH225C
82103SELF-PACED FRENCHMONMAY138 :30-11:30AMPH225C
82122ELEMENTARY GERMAN IITUEMAY148 : 30-11:30AMPH100
82123SELF-PACED GERMANTUEMAY71:00-4:00PMPH225C
82142ELEM SPANISH IITHUMAY95 : 30-8 :30PMPH226C
82143SELF-PACED SPANISHMONMAY138 : 30-11:30AMADAMSON
82162ELEMEN ITALIAN IITUE.MAY148 : 30-11:30AMPH226B
82163SELF-PACED ITALIANFRIMAY101:00-4:00PMPH225C
82172ELEM JAPANESE IIWEDMAY151 : 00-4 :00PMPH225C
82192ELEM RUSSIAN II.FRIMAY108 : 30-11:30AMPH226C
82201INTERMED FRENCH IMONMAY135 : 30-8 :3PMPH226B
82202INTERMED FRENCH IITUEMAY141: 00-4 :00PMPH226C
82222INTERMED GERMAN IIFRIMAY108 : 30-11:30AMPH226B
82242INTERMED SPANISH IIMONMAY131 : 00-4 :00PMPH226C
82262INTERMED ITALIAN IITUEMAY141: 00-4 :00PMPH225B
82272INTERMED JAPANESETUEMAY71:00-4:00PMPH226B
82302ADVANCED FRENCH IIMONMAY#131: 00-4 :00PMPH226B
82322ADVANCED GERMAN IITUEMAY71: 00-4 :00PMPH226C
82342ADVANCED SPANISH IITUEMAY141: 00-4 :00PMPH226B
82372ADVANCED JAPANESE IITUEMAY78 : 30-11:30AMPH226B
82427THE NEW GERMANYTUEMAY145 : 30-8 :3PMPH225C
82436STUD IN GERMAN LITFRIMAY108 : 30-11: 30AMBH237B
82491LIT POL FLM SOV/EUROTHUMAY98 : 30-11:30AMBH237B
PSYCHOLOGY
85102INTRO TO PSYCHOLOGYMONMAY135 : 30-8 :30PMDH1112,DH 1212
MMA14
85120GENERAL PROGRAMMINGTHUMAY95 : 30-8 :30PMBH355
85211COGNTV PSYCHOLOGYMONMAY138 : 30-11:30AMBH355
85221PRINC CHILD DVLPMNTFRIMAY108 :30-11:30AMPH225C
85251PERSONALITYTUEMAY141: 00-4 :00PMPH225C
85261ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGYMONMAY135 : 30-8 :30PMPH100
85281INTRO CLINICAL PSYMONMAY138 :30-11:30AMBH231B
85311COGNITIVE RSCH MTHDSTHUMAY98 :30-11:30AMBH340A
85321DEVELOP RSCH MTHDSMONMAY131 :00-4:00PMBH336B
85341SOCIAL RSCH METHODSTUEMAY75 :'30-8:30PMBH340A
85419SIM MOD PAR PR MECHTUEMAY71:00-4:00PMBH355
85420PRCPTN & PRCPTL DEVTUEMAY145 :30-8 :30PMBH355
85423COGNITIVE DEVELPMNTTUEMAY78 : 30-11:30AMBH336B
85444INTRPRSNL RELATNSHPTUEMAY71:00-4:00PMBH336B
85470NEUROPSYCH OF LANGTUEMAY14
co
OJ
0
1
OJ
oBH336B
85502SPECIAL TOPICSMONMAY138 : 30-11:30AMBH34 0A
85719SIM MOD PAR PR MECHTUEMAY71 : 00-4 :00PMBH355
85720PRCPTN & PRCPTL DEVTUEMAY145 : 30-8 :30PMBH355
85723COGNITIVE DEVELPMNTTUEMAY78 : 30-11:30AMBH336B
85770NEUROPSYCH OF LANGTUEMAY148 : 30-11:30AMBH336B
85802SPECIAL TOPICSMONMAY138 : 30-11:30AMBH340A

---------------------------------------------------

ifimmmuui
'S*'
E YTTwc3U4 -m Zx[xxr 7$ZIxa ut** Y cjEtq
L---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Explore the realm of fairy 
tales with CMU Drama
By TERRI KASCH
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
Most of the characters in the CFA 
production of Into The Woods require 
no introduction. Who hasnt heard 
the story of Little Red Riding Hood 
told over and over? By now you should 
have the basics down cold, but there 
may be a few things you didnt know 
about her. Yes, she did haul a basket 
through the woods, where she en
countered a wolf, but did you also 
know that in that same forest she 
met a desperate baker who tried to 
make off with her cloak?
Cinderella is another example. 
Sure, she met her prince and then 
ran away from him after the dance, 
but were you aware that she also met 
a bakers wife who nearly assaulted 
her just to get one of her slippers?
Somehow over the years these little 
facts got lost, but now you can see the 
unabridged version of your favorite 
stories in this one-of-a-kind musical.
Jack Plotnick and Pamela 
Gutteridge star as the baker and his 
wife. The couple wants a child, but 
unfortunately they must first lift a 
curse put on them by the forests local 
witch. To do this, the witch de
mands that they gather a red 
cape, a white cow, a slipper, 
and a lock of golden hair. 
This would be a tall or
der for most people, 
but luckily these
 Theatre Review 
INTO THE WOODS. a nmyGI mUv SR, rRiG 
NGGp m ST,p Ti ogm,,Ro imRIf pmgG oSmImo_
pGI, m, pSGf mppGNKppT gRip pSG oOI,G KOp 
OKTU pSGRI imNRgf6 QRIGopGv nf IRmU 
KOgRoy6 wpmIIRUW moy MgTpURoyb MmNGgm 
kOppGIRvWGb a,SgGf dIO&b GiiIGf 
KOnRmpTrRo&6 ap pSG KIG,WGb omgg x2407 
iTI pRoyGp,6
items abound where the couple lives. 
Both seniors gave stellar perfor
mances in these pivotal roles. Plotnick 
was appropriately wimpy as 
Gutteridge often rivaled the witch in 
ruthlessness.
Senior Ashley Cruz took on the 
part of Little Red Riding Hood. At 
times Cruz seemed to have trouble 
hitting some of the higher notes in 
her numerous solos, but her overall 
performance didnt suffer. She still 
grabbed plenty of laughs as the too 
naive granddaughter skipping 
.through the woods.
Jeffrey Kubiatowicz was sensa
tional as Cruzs nemesis, the wolf. 
Dressed up in a leather trench coat 
and dark glasses, Kubiatowicz slith
ered about the stage hungrily pursu
ing his prize. His performance was 
topped only by his appearance later 
as Cinderellas prince. Coincidentally, 
Cinderellas prince is the brother of 
Rapunzels prince. The two brothers, 
seniors Kubiatowicz and Steve
Prince, had one of the best numbers 
in the show, each of them trying to 
outdo the other as they dropped to 
their knees in Agony.
Senior Tami Tappan managed to 
shine as Cinderella, one of the few 
rational people left in the forest. 
While she spent most of the first act 
running from one character or an
other, she did take a breather to use 
her remarkable voice to sing a few 
songs.
Of course, its amazing that 
Cinderella stayed as normal as she 
did considering the family she came 
from. Lisa Mathis heads this family 
as Cinderellas evil stepmother. Se
nior Mathis and the two stepsisters, 
played by junior Mark 
Brettschneider and senior Ty Tay
lor, are hilarious as they stomp 
around trying to suck up to 
Cinderellas prince.
Jack (of Jack and the Beanstalk 
fame) also resides in the forest. He 
must sell the family cow, in order to 
keep himself and his mother alive. 
As Jack, senior Willard Crosby gave 
a wonderfully dopey performance. 
However, Crosby also brought hu
manity to this lovable character; 
it was heartbreaking tot 
see him fight back tears 
during the number No 
One Is Alone.
Please see WOODS, 
page L12
H
oTOIpG,f CMU Drama
Love is hell, even for a pair of princes. Jeffrey Kubiatowicz (left) as Cinderellas prince and Steve Prince as 
Rapunzel's prince brought the house down with their wonderfully melodramatic duet Agony.

---------------------------------------------------

pxAdmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccx
Joe Bob Briggs explores the 
wonderful world of phone sex
Before unveiling my longawaited review of Dialing For 
Dingbats, the epic statement on 
late-night party lines, I would like 
to state my position on phone-sex 
advertising, phone-sex employ
ees, and, to be brief, phone sex 
itself.
First of all, I find it perfectly 
acceptable in a free and open so
ciety if people want to have sex 
with their phones, as long as they 
do it in the privacy of their own 
hoipe or at least in the privacy of 
a phone booth. But not one of those 
phone booths that doesnt have 
any doors on it, because 1) it might 
offend older people who think 
phone sex is kinky, 2) its highly 
unsanitary to have sex with a 
public phone, even if the phone is 
equipped with a condom, and 3) 
the receiver is up so high off the 
ground that you could hurt your
self.
Next, Id like to say hi! to 
WickedDraculinaofManti, Utah, 
whom I met on the Salt Lake City 
Party Line one night when I was 
in town making a speech to the 
Southwestern Utah Beef Pro
ducers. I called back! I really did! 
There must have been something 
wrong with that number you gave 
me.-The guy who answered was 
really weird. All he ever said was 
Bueno K. S. I dont know any
body named Bueno K.S.
But, most important, Id like to
JOE BOB GOES TO 
THE DRIVE IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
point out the service that phonesex lines provide to the American 
culture and economy. If it werent 
for phone-sex lines, independent 
TV stations that show The Lone 
Ranger all night would have no 
income at all. You cant expect 
these station owners to get every 
John Davidson info-mercial for 
hair-care products that comes 
along. Theyve got to make a liv
ing.
But the main function of phonesex lines is that they provide 
employment for fat girls. I love fat 
girls. And if youve ever known 
anybody who works on a phonesex line, then you know its true... 
its an employment agency for 
Holsteins in Spandex tights.
Think about it for a minute. 
What do the ads offer?
Conversations with women who 
are starved for sex.
What else do they offer?
Conversations with women who
are starved for sex with you. No 
matter what you look like or how 
many cars are rusting in your 
front yard.
What kind of woman can do this 
job?
Well, actually, any woman can 
do this job.
What kind of woman can do this 
job well?
Fat girls. Some of em can talk 
about sex for hours. Some of em, 
with exceptionally vivid imagina
tions, get so excited that the first 
minute costs forty bucks, and each 
additional minute is only 24 cents. 
And you know why?
Cause that first minute is an 
experience youll never forget. 
These are sex-starved office 
buildings in dresses. When they 
say Hello, Im glad you called, 
they are glad you called\
You see the beauty of this? The 
guys happy. The gals happy. 
Three members of my world-famous chorus line, the Dancing 
Bovina Sisters (eight girls 
weighing a total of one ton), were 
phone-sex operators before they 
became stars. And you know why 
they were so good at it? One of em 
told me.
Most women, she said, use 
sex to try to get something from a 
man. But werefat. We know how 
to use a man to get sex.
You see the difference? Its 
subtle, I realize, but its what
made phone sex what it is today.
And speaking of Americas fa
vorite industry, Dialing For 
Dingbats is the first serious ex
amination of the world of... well 
... the world of dingbats on the 
phone. It was made by Lloyd 
Kaufman and Michael Herz, the 
geniuses at Troma Films, creators 
of The Toxic Avenger, Macho 
Woman, Stuff Stephanie in the 
Incinerator, and Nymphoid Bar
barian in Dinosaur Hell, the guys 
who spend at least a thousand 
bucks on every single movie they 
makeand its all on the screen, 
every penny of it. But in search
ing for new artistic frontiers, they 
went back to the basics:
Boy needs girl. Any girl. Boy 
acts nerdy so he cant get girl. 
Non-nerdy guy helps nerdy boy 
get girl anyway. Zaniness ensues. 
Boy kisses girl.
The difference here is that were 
talking about the singles bar of 
the nineties, the party line. 
Weve got dimwit farmers on the 
line. Weve got Hollywood pro
ducers on the line. Weve got 
Valley Girls on the line. Weve got 
... obviously, weve got absolutely 
no plot to get in the way of the 
story.
This is the first movie ever made 
where every actor in the movie 
has a phone in his hand 90 per 
cent of the time.
Two breasts. No dead bodies.
An actress undergoing a screen test for the classic Dialing For 
Dingbats.
Phone ripping. Phone micro-wav
ing. Food fight. Electro-shocked 
party-line junkies. Gratuitous 
impressions of Rod Serling, Ruth 
Westheimer, Marlon Brando and 
Ronald Reagan. Fat Fu. Cellular 
Fu. Drive-In Academy Award 
nominations for John Caponera, 
as Randy the nerd, for trying to 
kill himself with a plastic knife, 
then trying to kill himself by 
putting his head in the oven  a 
microwave oven; Michael Jeffries, 
king of the party lines, who tries 
to imitate Jim Belushi in About
Last Night, for trying to seduce a 
girl by showing her a teddy bear 
and a pack of Trojans; Lyn 
Segerblom, as the nerd girl who 
tries to get a date by talking about 
her dual floppies; and Lloyd 
Kaufman, for releasing this movie 
without getting arrested.
One star.
Joe Bob says check it out. You 
wont believe it.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only Drive-In critic from Grape
vine, Texas.
Pennsylvania Governors 
School for the Sciences
tUvGIWImvOmpG ,ONNGI GNKgTfNGUp mp djt rRgg nG m3mRgmngG rRpS pSG MGUU,fg3mURm 
kT3GIUTI, woSTTg iTI pSG woRGUoG,6 PSG Mkww J, m iR3GxrGGy ,ONNGI ,oSTTg iTI 3GIf 
pmgGUpGv SRWS ,oSTTg ,pOvGUp, iITN MGUU,fg3mURm6 PGmoSRUW a,,R,pmUpdTOU,GgTI 
mKKTRUpNGUp, rRgg nG m3mRgmngG iTI RTgTWfb dSGNR,pIfb mUv MSf,Ro, gmnTImpTIRG, m, rGgg m, 
pOpTIRmg vOpRG, JU dTNKOpGI woRGUoG mUv jmpSGNmpRo,6
MIGiGIGUoG rRgg nG WR3GU pT OKKGI gG3Gg ,oSTgm,pRomggf ,TOUv mKKgRomUp,6 YTO rRgg nG 
G4KGopGv pT ,RNOgpmUGTO,gf ,GI3G m, vTINRpTIf oTOU,GgTI, mUv pT gR3G RU pSG ,mNG 
vTINRpTIf m, pSG Mkww ,pOvGUp,b ,GG pSmp pSG Mkww vR,oRKgRUmIf IOgG, mIG mvSGIGv pTb 
KIT3RvG pOpTIRmg SGgK RU pSG momvGNRo KITWImNb mUv oTUvOop ,ToRmg mopR3RpRG,6
Journey Into the Woods with CMU Drama
WOODS, from page Lll
(Senior Natalie Venetia Belcon 
brought out the many facets 
inh,er role as the vengeful witch. 
At times she had to be domineer
ing, at other moments, gently 
caring. Belcon, who has been 
consistently wonderful in what
ever role she takes on, amazed 
; the audience with her many tal; ents.
Someone has to hold these 
characters together, and in this 
; play that someone is the narrator, 
; senior Natascia Aragno Diaz. As 
; the professional storyteller, Diaz 
; lent a exotic air to the character. 
;She also showed off her vocal 
; prowess as she led the company
in the first act finale Ever After.
This show did have a few tech
nical problems, but nothing dev
astating. The crew had difficulty 
lowering the screens that went 
up and down throughout the pro
duction. Also, the microphone 
used to amplify the voice of the 
giant was not always on when 
needed. The most noticeable 
technical problem, however, was 
when a piece of the lighting 
equipment fell onto the stage 
during the first number of the 
second act. The handful of cast 
members onstage took it in stride 
and Cruz delicately whisked the 
intruding object away.
Set Designer Ruthanna Kulp
and Costume Designer Jocelyn 
Pursley brought a special touch 
to the show. The entire production 
was done in black and white, so 
even Little Red Riding Hood was 
dressed in black. The effect was a 
very sleek set this show apart 
from other productions.
Director Brian Kulick has 
brought a fantastic show to Kresge 
stage. Kulick expressed concerns 
over filling in for Director Mel 
Shapiro, but it doesnt seem pos
sible that anyone could have done 
a better job with this show. Into 
the Woods will run at Kresge until 
February 23. So head over to CFA 
and meet your favorite characters 
... again.
Chemistry In
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $1000-$1400 
(Depending on experience) 
Free room and board.
School is in session from June 30 to August 3. 
Counselor duties begin June 26, and end August 3. 
aKKgRompRTU, iTI mU RUpGI3RGr m3mRgmngG JU Ql ..>56
8TI iOIpSGI RUiTINmpRTUb oTUpmop kGIIf sGU,yTb e4p6 CCC0 
aKKgRompRTU QGmvgRUG9 jmIoS Ab50056
Action
Second Annual Chemistry Event for Freshmen!
Ask not what opportunity can do for you, 
but ask what you can do to create opportunity.
t>fcisWI<KSl>o
1-800-288USA-1
?(iiRB((9[V.iR.>.. 
V.0.A55C5uuPs
ms..
m, Sift  ftJfFU iSSKte
t>Bachelors Degree
'^2o:>j2ooom9o:4J!i
RECRUIT U.S.A. Ill Pavonia Avenue.
Jersey City, N.J. 07310
!zx Jx V$wpiR 5d dJJFw < tz  h $T L}Jw F(5 pRgH
?If KliRECRUIT U.S.A.
Hands-On Demonstrations 
Chemistry Department Video 
Discussion of the Curriculum 
Career Opportunities in Chemistry 
Refreshments
Monday, February 11 
4:30pm, DH 2210
All Freshmen are Welcome!

---------------------------------------------------

dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a xx -iGslnsf xccxL13es#-
Silence will make you screani
Ken Regan/1991 Orion Pictures 
Anthony Hopkins stars as the mentally deranged Dr. Hannibal the 
Cannibal Lecter.
By STEPHEN GLICKER
Tartan Diversions Editor
If you look closely at the film 
industry today, there seem to be 
only three categories of movies 
around. In the first category, you 
can find the totally brain-dead 
films. Im sure all of you know 
this type of film perfectly well: a 
movie which requires absolutely 
no brain activity whatsoever and 
you still manage to comprehend 
and understand the entire film. 
The type of film even your goldfish 
could enjoy.
In the second category you find 
the sort-of brain-dead film in 
which every so often your brain 
switches on and you think, Hey! 
Did he really just kill that guy 
with a looseleaf binder? Cool, 
man! or I cant believe theyre 
showing that and this movies still 
rated PG-13. However, this cat
egory of film still doesnt require 
very much on your part. So if you 
wanted to, you could make out 
with your boyfriend or girlfriend 
and get the gist of the film.
Then comes the third category: 
the type of film in which not only 
are you required to have your 
brain on full blast all the time, 
but where it might help if you 
took notes to follow the plot. It is 
this oh-so-rare third category in
 Movie Review 
???? THE SILENCE OF THE 
LAMBS. a WOp,f 8J pImRUGG WTG, TU 
m vG,KGImpG ,GmIoS pT ,m3G m 
NR,,RUW rTNmU iITN m prR,pGv yRggGI6 
wpmIIRUW TvRG 8T,pGIb aUpSTUf 
lTKyRU,b mUv woTpp kgGUU6
which the new thriller The Si
lence of the Lambs falls.
Not only does The Silence of the 
Lambs make you really think, 
but it does something which is 
extremely rare in films made to
day  it actually leaves you with 
something to think about after
ward.
Thats right, a movie so strong 
that after you leave the theatre, 
youll be thinking about it on the 
way home, and maybe the next 
day, and maybe even the day af
ter that. So many films try to 
accomplish this feat, but so few 
films succeed.
The story centers around FBI 
trainee Clarice Starling, played 
by the Oscar Award-winning 
Jodie Foster. Starlings a bright, 
eager recruit who cant wait to get 
out in the field. Her dreams are 
soon made very real by FBI agent 
Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn).
Crawford asks Starling to go
and talk to Dr. Hannibal the 
Cannibal Lecter (Anthony 
Hopkins)  a deliciously loath
some serial killer who made a 
habit of eating parts of his victims
 to see if he will help them find 
a new serial killer known only as 
Buffalo Bill, who likes to skin 
all of his victims. It is at this point 
in the film, where Starling meets 
Lecter face to face, in which you 
can sit back, turn your brain on 
maximum, and enjoy the ride.
Of all the highlights found in 
this film, its the superb acting 
which really stands out. Foster 
gives her usual fantastic perfor
mance, Glenn is a convincing FBI 
agent, and Ted Levine as Buffalo 
Bill gives new meaning to the 
word haunting. However, its 
Hopkins who steals the show by 
far.
Lecter makes Adolf Hitler look 
like a pussycat. This guy is so evil, 
so insane, so super-intelligent, 
and so terrifying, that even Satan 
would have second thoughts about 
letting this guy into Hell. If you 
ever read about a guy like this, 
you wouldnt believe that he ex
isted. But while watching this 
film, you might forget that Dr. 
Lecter is only a. fictional charac
ter and that Hopkins is only an 
actor and not an actual psycho
path. Hopkins is so convincing
that you might believe that he 
was bom to play this part. g
As for the rest of the mctffe^if 
you couldnt guess, it gets very 
strange. As Starling and Lecter 
become closer and closer*'the 
movie gets weirder and weirder. 
It also gets quite scary at times, 
especially near the end whre jt 
exceeds scary and moves right 
into terrifying. This is one film 
you dont want to watch alone!v^
But, even as good as this film is, 
there are still a few less-tnanperfectmoments. Eventhoug^iijfr. 
Lecter gets a lot of screen time, 
we never find out anything about 
his past. Lecter is such an inter
esting character that I woupin. t 
mind watching another film* cen
tered completely around him;
In addition, some of the scenes 
run a little too long, and the end
ing leaves the viewer hanjgmjj. 
However, these flaws are i^nor 
and easily forgivable, since r the 
rest of the movie more than mafias 
up for them.
Maybe the reason that TEe^Silence of the Lambs manages to 
keep you thinking afterward 4s 
due to its superb acting, or^tjie 
bizarre and disturbing character^, 
or maybe its great plot. Whatever 
the reason, The Silence ofctK? 
Lambs is a film which falls into a 
category all by itself.wpRUW OUgGm,SG, GNTpRTU RU SR, gmpG,p The Soul Cage$
By ED LEE
Tartan Staffwriter
With the release of The Soul 
his third solo studio re
sting reveals much of 
himself and his life on every track. 
The haunting beauty of the album 
matches Stings magnificent voice 
with heartfelt lyrics about his 
childhood in a dark shipyard town 
in England and the death of his 
father in 1987. The tone of the 
album leaves the more jazz-pop 
oriented music of Dream of the 
Blue Turtles and Nothing Like the 
Sun behind for a subtle, smooth 
sound.
Branford Marsalis on saxo
phone and Kenny Kirkland on 
keyboards are the only mainstays 
from Stings band. In addition, 
Manu Katche returns on drums 
from Stings last album. A long 
list of musicians contribute per
cussion, Northumbrian pipes, 
strings, and an oboe to the album. 
Sting returns to playing bass 
along with the synclavier and 
mandolin. This marks the first 
time he plays bass on an album 
since playing with The Police.
The Soul Cages leaves the tal
ent of Marsalis and Kirkland to 
be more supportive with the ex
 Record Review 
??? THE SOUL CAGES. f wpRUW6 
a&j sGoTIv,6
ception of a few saxophone solos. 
This is the difference between this 
album and Stings previous two.
The serious nature of the lyrics 
takes away from the usual focus 
on the music. The musicians act 
as a backdrop for the presenta
tion of Stings thoughts and imag
ery. The strings, acoustic guitar, 
and mandolin offer an airy beauty 
to many of the tracks and allow 
Stings poetic lyrics to be the 
focus. The lyrical subject matter 
clearly influences the music with 
the sound as an extension of the 
lyrics and never dominating the 
overall tone.
Mad About You will surely be 
an effective device in the wooing 
of women. The passion of Stings 
voice and the accompanying 
acoustic guitar and mandolin 
produce an atmosphere that 
leaves the listener feeling the lyr
ics, not just understanding them. 
Stings bass play on Jeremiahs 
Blues (Part 1) is reminiscent of 
his days with Stewart Copeland
on the album.
To go along with the beauty of 
the music, the album has been 
recorded fully digital and incor
porates the new QSound tech
nology. This new three- dimen
sional sound produces music that 
emanates from different areas 
outside of the speakers. No new 
equipment is needed to forge this 
new sound and it is offered on the 
compact disc, cassette, and record. 
QSound offers a new sonic experi
ence different from any conven
tional stereo that will no doubt be 
the wave of the future.
Stings well noted environmen
tal activism has eliminated the 
use of the long box normally used 
to package compact discs. Only a 
limited number of discs in long 
boxes were initially sent to record 
stores. The remaining discs will 
exclude the wasteful long boxes 
making them collectors' items.
The Soul Cages will no doubt be 
a welcome addition to the collec
tions of Sting fans. This album is
very personal and offers someritisight into the life of a fine fO'ttS*- 
cian and songwriter.This alttiim 
will probably not be as commer
cially successful as Stings pFJrous solo efforts. The songs dcTnol 
possess quite the same upHeift 
tempos that are too often heard 
on Caseys Top 40. However, 
the images and sound thatTesunate throughout the albunr are 
extraordinarily arranged. Stiti^ps 
distinctive voice makes it a jbyiTo 
listen to over and over agaifiii(/-y
courtesy A&M Records 
and Andy Summers. His smooth, 
creative style shows through on 
this particular song and the rest 
of the album. A bit of a surprise 
was listening to Saint Agnes of 
God and the BumingTrain.This 
tune is an acoustic instrumental, 
with Sting on mandolin and 
Dominic Miller on guitar, that 
offers wonderful imagery of the 
sea and acts as a transition point
What the stars mean
***** Masterpiece 
**** Excellent 
*** Good 
** Fair
* Poor
Carnegie. Mellon s Chapter ofMortar-Board^ 
the Rational Senior J-Conor Society, 
celcbrates 73 years of excellence in
scholars flip leaders flip and service.
National Mortar Board Week Feb 10-16
If you smoke 
4,000hours ayear, 
stopping for 24wont kl you.
In fact, it might save your life.
All you have to do is join 
millions of other Americans 
and give up smoking for a day. 
Because if you can quit for a day, 
you can quit for life.
For more information, 
call l-800'ACS-2345.
The Symbol Says
HAIL
ff I V %
Youve seen this symbol aroundat 
health agencies, day care facilities, neigh
borhood centers and, of course, on all 
United Way posters and publications.
But did you know the symbols very 
simple, yet universal, message?
At the bottom is a helping hand. The - 
hand symbolizes the services and pro- j
grams supported by the United Way that j
in turn support the people in our com- ;
munity.
I
sf
all
The image in the center, based on the 
universal symbol of mankind, is cradled 
by the helping hand. It shows that all peo pie are supported and uplifted by United 
Way efforts.
And a rainbow springs from the helping 
hand, representing the hope of a better 
life possible through the United Way.
In these simple figures is the sum total 
of the United Way philosophyto pro
mote voluntarism and to support volun
tary organizations in their efforts to pro
vide a better life for us all.

---------------------------------------------------

UL4dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a 11 -iGslnsf xccx
OgRm sTnGIp, vR,mKKTRUp, 
in Sleeping with the Enemy
By KATIE CULBERTSON
!'tartan Editor-in-Chief
Yfis, its true... Sleeping with the 
Enny stars the-new megastar 
Jiilia Roberts. Unfortunately, this 
faoimeans that millions of people 
wUT-probably flock to the movie 
theaters to see it.
'Be warned. Dont be' fooled. 
Btft waste your money. The 
Ffrtty Woman has descended her 
Hollywood throne and delivered 
a true disappointment.
,tyt course, you cant blame 
Roberts entirely  she had a lot 
of Kelp. Its doubtful that anyone 
handed a script of such little 
quality could do much to improve 
up.Qj* it. This story is just plagued 
wih problems.
. Steeping with the Enemy begins 
witH very little background or 
setup. The viewers are thrust into 
the lives of Martin (Patrick 
Beorgin) and Laura Burney ( Julia 
Roberts), a married couple living 
oti iihe shores of Cape Cod. Hes 
haMsome and successful, shes 
bHitiful and loving. Life is great.
 Movie Review 
?? SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY.
aipGI m rTNmU G,omKG, iITN SGI 
K,foSTKmpSRo SO,nmUv mUv ,pmIp, m 
UGr gRiGb SG pImoy, SGI vTrU mUv 
pIRG, pT yRgg SGI6 wpmIIRUW OgRm sTn_
GIp,b MmpIRoy GIWRUb mUv KG3RU 
aUvGI,TU6
Suddenly, hes slapping her 
around because she forgot to 
properly straighten the towels in 
the bathroom. Um, yeah, right. 
By now the audience has a clue 
that this guy is nuts, but theres 
not a shred of explanation as to 
why this man viciously hits his 
wife, apologizes, kisses her, and 
brings her roses. Nor is there a 
plausible explanation as to how 
hes trained her to wait on him 
hand and foot.
The writers simply plucked this 
random, deranged, psycho wifebeater out of their big bag of 
characters and plunked him down 
in this movie. Poor character de
velopment heads the long list of 
warning signs in this flop.
Eventually, Laura becomes fed 
up with her life and, accompanied 
by a spine, she concocts this goofy 
escape scheme. Ill spare you the 
painful process of describing the 
details. Anyway, she settles in a 
small Iowa town under the name 
Sarah Waters. A new haircut and 
job at the town library later, and 
shes on her way to a new life.
Of course, she meets a new man
 a cute and charming acting 
teacher from the local college 
named Ben (Kevin Anderson). Its 
ridiculous how quickly she is able 
to get close to another man, even 
after the harrowing experience 
she went through with her hus
band.
Well, you cant have Ben and 
Sarah living happily ever after, 
so Martin hunts her down. No, 
youre kidding. Yes, this movie is 
riddled with plot twists about as 
subtle as an oncoming Mack truck.
Okay, now for the nice stuff. 
First of all, the music accompa
nying this movie is great. Second,
Myles Aronowitz/1991 Twentieth Century Fox 
Martin Burney (Patrick Bergin) reminds his wife Laura (Julia Roberts) of how special the couples 
Honeymoon was.
ally acquires a backbone and gets 
interesting. A great one-liner al
most makes the first hour and 45 
minutes of squirming around in 
your seat worth it, but not quite.
Anyway, the ending is good.
the ending is pretty good. If for 
the most part of the movie you get 
distracted counting the pieces of 
gum stuck underneath your seat, 
do pay attention to the last 15 
minutes, when the movie actuBut if you just cant get enough 
of Julia Roberts, and really need 
your fix, then rent a copy of Pretty 
Woman and stay home. Sleeping 
with the Enemy isnt worth your 
$6 or your time.
B seasons the winter months
By.MARNI BOREK
T&tan Asst. Diversions Editor
ppptpx
Despite the absence of the fall
ing of snowflakes and a dusty 
white covering on the streets in 
Pittsburgh this year, winter spirit 
is alive with the arrival of the 
^inmdham Hill Winter Solstice 
cjoncert tour. The concert series, 
\Vhich includes various Windham 
Hill recording artists, was initi
ated after the success of the 
Winters Solstice albums I, II, 
and III. Several talented groups 
re scheduled to perform music of 
the snowy season at Carnegie 
Hall on Thursday, February 14.
; The music of the Winter Sols.tice series varies according to 
the artists that perform it. Audi
ences will hear everything from 
classical to jazz. Although the au
dience will hear all sorts of styles, 
they* will receive just the right 
dose of seasonal music.
; More than 15 artists are in
volved in the project, including 
sjLKjh highly regarded Windham 
Hill artists as Nightnoise, Liz 
Stc|ry, and Philip Aaberg. These 
artists have previously partici
pated in the Winter Solstice con
cert series and have received much 
praise from such publications as 
Billboard and the Washington 
Po$t.
Nightnoise is an Irish quartet 
including guitarist Michael O
 Concert Preview 
WINTER SOLSTICE. PSG dmIUGWRG 
jO,Ro lmgg6 PSOI,vmf mp 9F> KN6 
PRoyGp, mIG '7 rRpS djt JQb '57 
rRpSTOp mUv omU nG nTOWSp iITN pSG 
wyRnT JUiTINmpRTU QG,y6
Domhnaill, keyboardist Triona Ni 
Dhomhnaill, flutist Brian Dun
ning, and American violinist Billy 
Oskay. The group performs tra
ditional seasonal songs of Ireland. 
A favorite moment in the groups 
past performances is when Triona 
Ni Dhomhnail sings in native 
Gaelic while being accompanied 
by other members of the group. 
Dhomnaills voice is sweet, 
haunting, and full of emotion, 
especially during Once Upon a 
Time in Bethlehem. The group 
has also been known to break 
away from its traditional Celtic 
influence when performing a 
buoyant version ofVan Morrisons 
Moondance.
Pianist Liz Story has also to 
added much warmth to the Win
ter Solstice concerts. She pos
sesses a distinct musical style 
despite the fact that her choice of 
performance music is contrast
ing. She has performed classical, 
jazz, folk, and contemporary mu
sic. Her performance of 
Greensleeves on the first
Winters Solstice album helped the 
album achieve gold status.
A remarkable highlight of the 
concert series is the pianist Philip 
Aaberg. Hehas worked with such 
rock and pop musicians as Peter 
Gabriel and Tom Johnston of the 
Doobie Brothers. He has uplifted 
the spirit of the Solstice perfor
mance with a get down version 
of the Nutcracker Suite. When 
he does not pound on the keys of 
the piano to the rhythm of an 
upbeat tempo, Aaberg is perform
ing more soothing pieces such as 
the touching High Plains: 
Christmas on the High Line.
Other noted groups involved in 
the project are the Turtle Island 
String Quartet and the Modern 
Mandolin Quartet. The Turtle 
Island Quartet is capable of 
warming a room on a cold day 
with their ragtime, blues, and 
classical styles. The Modern 
Mandolin Quartet music will 
eliminate the chills with the 
smooth, distinct sounds of the 
mandolin.
Sparse snow has disappointed 
many Pittsburghers this year, but 
there are positive aspects of this 
mild winter. There are no icy 
streets to drive on and no unat
tractive agglomeration of sand on 
the curbs. Instead, there is the 
Winter Solstice concert tour which 
will bring all the magic of a white 
winter to life.
dOppRUW SmRI R, TUgf KmIp Ti TOI 1Tn6 
dOppRUW your SmRI pSG rmf fTO want 
Rp R, G3GIfpSRUW6 
uOI G4KGIRGUoGv ,pmii R, pImRUGv pT 
gR,pGU iRI,p666pSGU oOp6
Save Some 
Green
with our 
New Pricing Policy
HAIRCUTS 
$12 to $14
with any Junior Stylist
Lewis Hair Salon
813 S. Aiken Avenue 
Shadyside
682-4063 
As always, your satisfaction 
guaranteed
Ple 8utsPl aDDtah
Chiropractic Screening
Dr. Eric Segal
pjetVisiiVision 8 Hearing Tests
In/ifi Podiatry Screening
P Dr. L. J. Bayiis
Electrocardiograms (EKG)
Blood Pressure Testing
Body Fat Testing
Tuesday, Februaiy12
11 a.m. -5 p.m.
Skibo Ballroom & Gray Matter
Get fit for the 90s. Take the first step towards a healthier you!
Demonstrations will include 
Bench (Step) Aerobics, 
Karate, Ballroom Dancing 
and Weight Aerobics.
Representatives from Health 
Research Services Foun
dation (HRSF), Nike, Club 
One, The Caber Club, 
Weight Watchers and East 
End Co-Op will provide cur
rent information and free give
aways.
wKTU,TIGv nf wpOvGUp aopR3RpRG, 8GG mUv pSG apSgGpRo QGKmIpNGUp6
information on Breast Care
5-minute Sports Massage
Cholesterol Testing ($3 fee)
and much, much more
i

---------------------------------------------------

dmi dnstnr a onsrihki eiuuEr a 11 -iGslnsf xccxpx,
Thursday, February 14
Love and Death
One cant help but chuckle after a Woody Allen 
picture, and this film is no exception. In one of his 
only films that doesnt star Mia Farrow, Allen pre
sents the story of a Russian woman (Diane Keaton ) 
who has nothing on her mind other than to kill 
Napoleon. Allen plays her horny accomplice. Hell, if 
sex were the only thing on your mind in 1812, 
wouldnt you make an attempt on a great dictators 
life to get it?
With the music of Prokofiev and other sorts of 
Russian cornucopia, some of the movies scenes dis
tinctly remind the audience of the nightmarish expe
rience of deciphering T olstoys WarandPeace in their 
high school years.
Just one word of advice. Yes, the movie is hilari
ous, but your valentine may have other things on his 
or her mind on Thursday night. Perhaps an expen
sive dinner, a handful of Hersheys kisses.... Use 
your romantic discretion when you're ready to use 
that dollar.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, February 15
Wild at Heart
Even if youve heard nothing about this film, you 
probably know that its one of those David Lynch 
films. So, if youre a Lynch fan, you can stop reading 
now and plan on seeing it, for its one of Lynchs best 
screen efforts. But if you're not in touch with the 
Lynch-way of perceiving the world, or if you thought 
Twin Peaks was an obscure, stretched-out murder 
mystery, youll want to know the following.
Sailor (Nicolas Cage) and Lulu (Laura Dern) are 
in the throes of a passionate relationship, predicated 
on fiery sex and Sailors Elvis persona. We follow 
their plight across the south, while theyre being 
chased by a hit man hired by Lulus mother. Their 
travels are punctuated with seething sexual inter
ludes, violent goings-on, passing allusions to deepdark pasts (that, in standard Lynch fashion, you can 
never totally piece together), and, of course, the 
obligatory reality lapses (e.g. an Elvis break at a 
heavy metal dance club).
Take note; there are some scenes  security 
guards hand shot off and a dog carries it away  
that will make you laugh or make your stomach 
churn. Consider yourself warned.
At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, February 16
Lethal Weapon
Just in case youre one of the very few who hasnt 
seen or heard about this movie yet, heres a rundown 
of the basic plot....
It begins with a stoned woman falling to her death 
from an apartment building. Its initially thought to 
be a routine suicide, but it turns out that more 
powerful and darker forces are at work here. Danny 
Glover plays a conservative cop close to retirement 
who is called to work on the case. He gets paired with 
the psychotic, suicidal undercover narc, Mel Gibson. 
What follows next is lots of violence, dead people, 
gunfire, car chase scenes  you know, the basic 
action/adventure stuff.
If you havent seen this movie yet, then dont even 
think about not going. You owe it to yourself to see it. 
At 6, 8,10,12
Sunday, February 17
Star Trek: The Motion Picture
Space ... the final frontier.
These are the voyages of the starship Enterprise in 
Star Trek: The Motion Picture.
The new captain of the Enterprise, Will Decker, 
finds his command taken away from him as a strange 
Phenomenon approaches earth, and Starfleet com
mand sends Old Faithful, Admiral James T. Kirk 
(William Shatner), to find out whats happening.
After a chain of discoveries, the crew finds them
selves frantic to prevent the (clich) destruction of 
the earth! And in the end, Kirk leads the way to new 
exploration with the command, Out there. 
Thataway.
At 7, 9:30,12
By MTLq tmianz OsFxO rsOanz kem-su 
hxRemru ! EisF$h Op iskhsTV BREAK
A summary of upcoming episodes 
of Carnegie Melton's favorite TV 
shows.
Regular Network Programs
ANYTHING BUT LOVE. 
Wednesday at 9:30 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Patrick and Hannah work 
well together on a story, raising 
Patricks spirits and keeping Marty 
down in the dumps.
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC).. Its Valentines 
Day and Sams in bedby himself, 
after a stairway accident.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Grandpa Dons ethnic tales 
seem trivial to Doogie until one of 
them proves helpful to his research.
THE FLASH. Thursday at 8:30 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). Would you 
believe  a freak accident turns 
Tina into a homicidal maniac who 
wants nothing more than a dead 
Flash.
FRESH PRINCE OF BEL-AIR.
Monday at 8 pm, channel 11 (NBC). 
Theres royal folks visiting  and 
Wills impressed by Lady Penelope.
LA. LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Rollins is sus
pected of rape after an innocent jog 
through a white neighborhood, C. J. 
is in a tribal court for aNavajo child 
custody case, Beckers problems
continue, and a tabloid must deal 
with the wrath of Brackman.
MURPHY BROWN. Monday at 
9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). Jims writ
ten a spy novel whose heroine bears 
a close resemblance to Murphy.
QUANTUM LEAP. Friday at 8 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). Preempted 
again for Super Bloopers & Practi
cal Jokes. Rumor has it that Sam 
wont be back until March.
SEINFELD. Wednesday at 9:30 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). Did you 
ever call someone, get an answer
ing machine, and leave an idiotic 
message that you regret forever? 
Well, George has that experience 
tonight.
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 
8 pm, channel 53 (Fox). Love is in 
the air, as Principal Skinner and 
Aunt Patty are a potential item, 
while Aunt Selma feels left out.
THIRTYSOMETHING. Tues
day at 10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
Nancy awaits the results of her 
cancer surgery in a tension-filled 
episode.
THE WONDER YEARS.
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Busters barking all night 
long, and Kevin is blamed.
Special Programs
AMERICAN GIGOLO. Thurs
day, at 8 pm, channel 22 (WPTT).
ACADEMICS: DATE OTHERS 
WHO WORK IN ACADEME
* Low-cost network serving Pittsburgh, 
Buffalo, and other areas in the Northeast. 
1 Run by Ph.D.s.
1 Information is sent in a plain envelope: 
privacy is assured.
Academic Companions  P.O. Box 193 
Clinton, NY 13323
The
DESIGNER PERM
only 530.00 
Complete with written 
guarantee
The
PRECISION CUT
only 51] 4.00 
Complete with shampoo 
and blow style
"1
"Theres nothing like a 
good play followed by a 
quiet dinner for two"
"I prefer two tickets to 
watch my favorite team 
play."
"Wrong. Nothing 
compares to a great rock 
concert!"
No matter what your 
style, you can be sure 
you'll get the latest In 
hair fashions at Great 
Expectations. The one 
salon for everyone.
GJtERT CHKCTftTWnS
MsedJwJuD laJsdtPPesw
JUST-A-CUT
TUgf '5>6>>
Cut only
$2.00 OFF
TU m J ag,TPrecision Haircut | a3mRgmngG9
(complete w/ wash & style) R  MGIN,
Expires Feb. 28,1991 $6dTgTIRUW
I Not valid with any other offer [  8IT,pRUW 
MUST HAVE COUPON____|  dTUvRpRTURUW
.F aprTTv wpIGGp 
aoIT,, pSG ,pIGGp iITN 
umygmUv MT,p uiiRoG 
CAxF7>>
DesktopResume
PublishingService
- by the hour- packages available
You can rent time on our 
Macintosh & LaserWriter 
system. Great for resumes, 
newsletters, reports 
and more!
For high quality resumes, 
matching cover sheets and 
envelopes, depend on 
Kinkos, the Copy Center.
yRUyT$,
the copy center
PCxv -EsGiM UiB yrigt tE ewNErnuIMq
PcO, -EsGiM UiB
Paul Schraders story of a male 
prostitute. Starring Paul Newman 
and Lauren Hutton.
EYES ON THE PRIZE. Monday, 
Tuesday, and Wednesday at 10 pm, 
channel 13 (WQED). Repeating the 
final three parts of this award-win
ning history of the civil rights 
movement.
THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND 
THE UGLY. Wednesday at 8 pm, 
channel 53 (WPGH). Classic slowmoving spaghetti western. Starring 
Clint Eastwood and Eli Wallach.
NOT OF THIS WORLD. Tues
day at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). A 
small Midwestern town becomes a 
scene of mass destruction when an 
alien attacks the brand new power plant.
YOUNG GUNS. Monday at 8 pm, 
channel 53 (Fox). Hunkfest in the 
guise of a western. Starring Emilio 
Estevez, Kiefer Sutherland, Lou 
Diamond Phillips, Charlie Sheen, 
Dermot Mulroney, Casey 
Siemaszko, and Jack Palance.
Cable Programs
THE BAD NEWS BEARS IN 
BREAKING TRAINING.
Wednesday at 4 pm, HBO. Without 
Walter Matthau, it just aint the 
same. Starring William Devane, 
Jackie Earle Haley, Clifton James, 
Jimmy Baio, and Chris Barnes.
BEING THERE. Thursday at 
11:30 am, HBO. A naive gardener 
takes over the country. Skip class; 
watch this if you can. Starring PeT 
ter Sellers, Shirley MacLaine, 
Melvyn Douglas, and Jack Warden.
DOG SHOW. Monday ,and 
Tuesday at 8 pm, USA. Bark-tobark live coverage of the 
Westminster Kennel Club Show at 
Madison Square Garden.
GEORGE WASHINGTON. 
Tuesday-Friday at 8 pm, Family 
Channel. Repeating the miniseries 
which chronicled the life of our first 
President. StarringBarryBostwick.
HAROLD AND MAUDE. Fri
day at 5 pm, Cinemax. Another 
must-see, in which an old woman 
shows a depressed young man how 
to live. Starring Bud Cort, Ruth 
Gordon, Cyril Cusack, Vivian Pick
les, and Charles Tyner.
SITCOM MARATHON. Monday-Friday at 8 pm, Nick at Nite. 
One sitcom is featured each night 
with four back-to-back episodes. 
Dobie Gillis is on Monday, The 
Donna Reed Show on Tuesday, 
Green Acres on Wednesday, Be
witched on Thursday, and Mister Ed 
on Friday.
Compiled by 
A. FRANKLIN WHEELER
Me the law into 
your own hands.
\
If youre a 
man about to 
turn 18, the law , 
says youve got toregister with 
Selective Service. : 
So take five 
minutes to fill out: 
this simple card  
at the post office.
Register with Selective Service when you turn 18.KrR,gGI rRggR wGgGopR3G wGI3RoG6 x 
Ji,ORoy6 Jp,sR,f aUv Rg, pSG gmr 2
Free Tickets!
This Wednesday, 7:30 pm 
Showcase Cinemas East
Just stop by The Tartan office 
today and pick up your free 
pair of tickets. But hurry, 
there are only 50 pairs.
'i

---------------------------------------------------

Films
/N
Ui
VER
rWLi.mmm
Admission for all DH 2210 fdms is $1 for 
students with ID, $2 otherwise. Admission 
to all Pittsburgh Playhouse fdms is $3.
Glory will play at the Pittsburgh Play
house tonight at 7:30 and 9:30.
The Seven Year Itch will play at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse tomorrow night at 
7:30 and 9:30:
Jean de Florette (part I) will play at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Wednesday at 7:30 
and 9:40 pm.
Manon of the Spring (part II) will play at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse Thursday at 7:30 
and 9:30 pm.
Love and Death will be shown in DH 
2210 Thursday at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
Wild at Heart will be shown in DH 2210 
Friday at 6, 8,10 and midnight.
Millers Crossing will play at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse Friday at 7:30 and 9:40 
pm.
Lethal Weapon will be shown in DH 2210 
Saturday at 6, 8,10 and midnight.
Henry and June will be showing at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Saturday at 7:30 and
10 pm.
Meet Me in St. Louis plays at the Pittsburgh Playhouse Sunday at 7:30 and 9:30 
pm.
Star Trek I: The Motion Picture will be 
shown in DH 2210 Sunday at 7, 9:30, and 
midnight.
Notices
A Graduate Student Luncheon Seminar
on Graduate Students Rights and Re
courses: Negotiating the System will be held today from 46 pm. If you are inter
ested in attending, send email to John 
Hinshaw or call x3356 and leave your name, department and email address. No charge. 
Snacks and beverages will be provided.
Is humanity obsolete? Student Pugwash 
Roundtable with Hans Moravec of the 
robotics Institute will discuss The Univer
sal Robot, Tuesday at 4:30 pm in Baker 
Hall 129.
An International Coffee Hour will be 
held tomorrow from 4:30-6 pm in the Skibo Faculty lounge. Sponsored by the Modern 
Languages Department.
A health and fitness fair will be held in 
the Skibo Ballroom and Grey Matter 
tomorrow, 11 am to 5 pm. Admission is 
free. Sponsored by Student Senate. For 
more information call x7539.
Interested in making a Jewish connec
tion? Want to discuss events in the Middle 
East? Have lunch at 11:45 Tuesday in 
Kiltie Court with Cindy Goodman-Leib, Assistant Director of Bnai Brith Hillel.
Rachel Stock, program assistant for Bnai 
Brith Hillel, will have office hours Wednes
day from 4-6 pm at Hillel.
A study break will be held Wednesday at 9:30 pm at the Jewish Cultural Center, 131 
Margaret Morrison Apartments. Crayons 
will be provided.
A Valentines Day raffle drawing will 
be held Wednesday at 7 pm in Kiltie Court. 
Tickets will be sold from 11 am to 7 pm 
today through Wednesday and cost $1 
each. First prize is dinner for two at Per Favore Ristorante.
Go bowling with Hillel Saturday at 9 
pm. Meet at Forbes and Margaret Morrison 
at 8:30.
A deli dinner and ice skating trip for
Jewish graduate students will be held 
Sunday at 5 pm, sponsored by Hillel.
Dinner is $3 and skate rental and admis
sion is $4.50. For reservations and more 
information call 621-8875.
The Lesbian and Bisexual Womens 
Group will meet at the CMU Womens 
Center Mondays at 7 pm.
The Explorers Club weekly meetings 
will be held every Thursday at 6:30 pm in 
Porter Hall 225C. For more information 
call Lee Janson at x3457.
Carnegie Mellon Students for Peace
meets every Sunday at 7 pm in Baker Hall 
225C. All new members and views are welcome  please join us. For more 
information call x5501.
Alvin P. Brannick, CMU senior vice 
president for legal affairs, will have an open office hour each Tuesday from 2-3 pm 
for students with legal problems. In 
Warner Hall 605. Call x3708 to make an 
appointment.
Volunteers are needed at LawrencevilleBloomfield Meals on Wheels, located at 
St. Augustines church on 37th Street and 
Butler. Meals are prepared every day of the year for people on special diets who are not 
able to cook for themselves. Help is needed 
in the kitchen and on the road at various 
times of the day. For more information or 
to sign up, contact Tony or Josie at 687- 
0830.
A spring semester in New York City is
being offered through New York Univer
sity. For more information contact the NYU Spring in New York program, 225 
Shimkin Hall, New York, NY 10003, (212) 
998-7117.
Seminars for the City of Pittsburgh 
Marathon have begun. The schedule 
continues with "Special Medical Concerns 
for Runners at 6:30 pm Friday at the Mt. 
Lebanon High School Fine Arts Theatre. 
For more information call 647-RUNN.
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club Febru
ary meeting will be held February 19 at 7
pm in Hamerschlag 401. Anyone interested 
in amateur radio is welcome to attend. For 
more information call Debbie Henderson at
683-7216 or 681-7586.
A CPR class sponsored by CMU Emer
gency Medical Service will be held February24 from noon to 6 pm in Skibo 45. The class 
is open to the CMU community and the cost 
is $6.00. Limited spaces available. To 
register send email to sc4e@andrew.cmu.edu 
or call Scott at x4388.
Foreign language tables will be held in 
the Morewood cafeteria. Mondays: Ranchi
O Nihon-go De (Japanese language table) 
beginning at 11:30 am. Tuesdays: II Circolo 
Italiano (Italian language table), 5-6 pm. 
Wednesdays: La Table Franaise (French language table) beginning at 11:30 am. 
Thursdays: Deutscher Stammtisch (Ger
man language table) beginning at 11:30 
am. Fridays: La Mesa Espaola (Spanish 
language table) and Russkaya Beseda 
(Russian language table) beginning at 
11:30 am.
Soundings is a new biweekly radio series 
featuring interviews, ideas, events and 
personalities of the campus and urban 
communities. The programs will air every 
other Sunday at 8 pm on WRCT, 88.3 FM. 
For more information contact Kevin 
Goldsmith, general manager, WRCT, at 
621-WRCT or by email: 
WRCT@andrew.cmu.edu.
Carnegie Mellon Ballroom Dance Club
will have meetings Wednesdays from 7-11 
pm in the Skibo Ballroom. Singles and 
couples at all experience levels are wel
come. For more information contact Aki 
Ohshima at x7116.
A Poetry and Fiction Workshop is held 
every Wednesday at 8 pm in the Cathedral 
of Learning, room 204. Bring in finished works or write at the site.
Lectures
Janice Obuchkowski, President Bushs 
principal adviser on the telecommunications industry, will discuss Information Network
ing: A Global Perspective on Wednesday at
4 pm in the Skibo Ballroom. For more 
information, contact Georgeannne Muchnok 
at x7194.
Tony Buba, local producer and filmmaker 
presents How I Manage Without Getting a Real Job in the Wherrett Room Thursday 
at 3:30 pm. Open to the public.
Sandy Deitch, an art administrator, will 
lecture February 20 at 5:30 pm in Margaret 
Morrison A14.
Professor Aaron Kirschenbaum will be 
speaking February 21 at noon in Moon 
Court in the University of Pittsburgh Law 
School. The topic is Aspects of the Israeli Legal System: The Ethics of Rabbinic 
Penology  Questions Related to Criminal 
Law. He will speak at Duquesne Law 
School in room 233 later that day on The 
Good Samaritan in Jewish Law. For more 
information call 621-8875.
Religion
Spend Shabbat dinner at Hillel,
Friday. Happy half-hour starts at 5:30 
pm, services at 6 and dinner at 6:45. For 
reservations or more information call 
621-8875.
Prayer at the Close of the Day will 
be sung on Sunday at 9:30 pm in Heinz Chapel by the Compline Choir under the 
direction of John W. Becker. This 
ecumenical choral service is sponsored by 
the Lutheran University Center. Call 
682-6886 for more information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory cel
ebrates mass daily at 12:30 pm in Skibo 
39 Monday through Friday. Weekend 
masses are celebrated at 7 pm Saturday 
and 10:30 am Sunday in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration 
auditorium. For more information call the Roman Catholic Oratory at 681-3181.
Culture
Money, Soviet photography and King 
Anthracite will be exhibited at the 
Carnegie Mellon Art Gallery through 
March 5. Admission to the gallery is free. 
For more information call x3110.
A Midsummer Nights Dream will be 
presented Friday by the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre. Tickets are $9 and available at the Skibo Information Desk.
A Chinese New Year banquet will be 
held at the Soldiers and Sailors Memorial 
Saturday. The program starts at 6 pm and 
includes dinner, musical performances, 
raffles and dancing. Cost is $25 per person. 
For more information call Sherry Yu at 327-7878 or Phoenix Cheng at 281-3777.
The artwork of Anatoli Kaplan will be 
on exhibition through February 27 in the Fine/Perlow and Weis Galleries in the 
Jewish Community Center.
Trio Fontenay will perform at Carnegie 
Music Hall February 25 at 8 pm. Sponsored by the Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society. 
Tickets $10 and $14. For more information call 624-4129.
Music
Greeks
Greek skating night is February 20 from 
7-9 pm at Schenley Ice Rink. All students are welcome. Ticket price is $2 and all 
proceeds go to Carebreak. For more 
information call Alexis at x5943.
Greek Sing will take place March 15 at 7 
pm at the Pittsburgh Soldiers and Sailors 
Memorial. Tickets cost $6.50 at the Skibo information desk and $7.50 at the door.
Parties
An all-campus Valentines dance will be 
held Friday from 9 pm to 1 am in the Skibo Ballroom. Valentine balloons, hors doeuvres and refreshments will be pro
vided. $5 per person; $8 per couple. ASA 
members half price.
Theatre
Into The Woods runs through February 23 in Kresge Theatre. Curtain time is 8 pm 
Tuesday through Saturday, and 2 pm for 
the Saturday matinee. Tickets are $13, 
$10, and $7. This one shouldnt be missed. For more information call Kresge Theatre 
Box Office at x2407.
Reality Optional, at the Artery, will have 
shows February 23, March 9 and 23, April
6 and 20, and May 4 and 18. Curtain time 
is 7:30 pm.
Sports
Space at the Artery will play house rap, 
soul, and reggae music with DJ Sinbad 
tonight at 9 pm. Also featuring a fashion 
show with Avalon Vintage Clothing and an 
open beer bar from 9-10:30 pm. Sponsored 
by Ken-Doll productions. For more infor
mation call 621-3626.
The Winter Solstice Concerts, Thursday 
at 7:30 pm in Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets $5 with CMU ID, two tickets per ID, 
available at Skibo Information Desk. 
Sponsored by AB Concerts. For more 
information contact Justin Pizzella at 
x2105.
The mens and womens indoor track 
teams will compete Saturday at the Robert 
Morris College Invitational.
The mens and womens swim teams 
travel to the University of Rochester for the 
UAA Championships Wednesday through 
Saturday.
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions to: The 
Tartan, Attn. Calendar, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon 
U., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send campus mail to 
Calendar Editor, The Tartan, Skibo Info Desk. 
You can also drop submissions via AppleShare in 
the drop folders in the Tartans server, Skibo zone. 
Please limit submissions to fifty words or less. 
Deadline is 5 pm the Thursday before the next 
issue. Space is.limited and placement is not guaran
teed. Original Vox Populi and Calendar entries 
cannot be returned.
8estasY .Fb5005 
559F> aj6 
'5>6>>MGI,TU
Transportation and lunch 
will be provided.
Tickets sold at the Skibo Information Desk
Sponsored by Stu.cCe.nt Affairs
