By RYAN D. SCHILLING
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Everyone knows the rule of thumb for 
college acceptance letters: Big envelopes 
are better; thin envelopes mean a rejec
tion note. But for Gil Alterovitz, a senior 
electrical and computer engineering ma
jor, a thin letter held a nice surprise  a 
Fulbright Scholarship to Canada.
When I opened it, I just felt like call
ing everyone and writing thank you let
ters, Alterovitz said. And thats ex
actly what I did.
The application and selection process 
for the Fulbright took a grueling seven 
months. Alterovitz began working on 
the application last September with the 
assistance of Dr. Joseph Rudman, a phys
ics professor and Fulbright advisor, in 
order to mee.t the initial October dead
line. In January, Alterovitz heard that 
the National Screening Committee of 
the Institute of International Education 
had recommended him for a Fulbright. 
His application was then sent for review 
to the host country, Canada.
Next year, Alterovitz will study at the 
University of Toronto, where he will 
work with Dr. Christopher Hogue on a 
biomedical engineering research project.
The project will involve signal process
ing and protein structure with applica
tions in treatment of certain diseases. 
Alterovitz will also take related courses 
at the university.
Additional essays or information were 
often required of Alterovitz during the 
Fulbright application process. Some
one from Canada called saying, I hope 
Im not ruining your spring break, but we 
need this additional essay for review  
and we need it soon,  he said.
In addition to furthering his profes
sional interests, the Fulbright scholar
ship will allow Alterovitz to work and 
study in another country. The Fulbright 
Program was established in 1946 under 
legislation introduced by former Senator 
J. William Fulbright. The United States 
Information Agency administers the pro
gram, which awards about 4,000 scholar
ships annually to graduate and under
graduate students. The program, whose 
scholarships fund $15,000 for a year of 
study in a foreign country, was designed 
to foster understanding between Ameri
cans and people from other countries.
[The scholarship] also gives me an 
opportunity to get involved in research 
while gaining a new perspective from 
scientists in a different country, said
Erica Yamada/Tartan Photo Staff 
Gil Alterovitz was awarded a Fulbright 
Scholarship for study in Canada.
Alterovitz. Its amazing that even 
thoughtheU.S. and Canada are simi
lar' in many ways, there are many 
subtle differences ranging from cul
ture to the educational system. 
Alterovitzs interest in biomedical 
research stems fromhis pre-Carnegie 
Mellon days. The summer before his 
freshman year, he went to Lawrence 
Please see FULBRIGHT, page 4
dialup improvements
By BRIAN SMITH
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
Students in off-campus housing may 
have mistaken the Carnegie Mellon dialin network for America Online recently, 
as busy signals have become common 
during peak usage hours. Many of the 
modems on the CMU Annex, the modem 
bank that most off-campus users connect 
to, have been running at capacity lately. 
These high-speed modems have been all 
but inaccessible during the primetime 
hours between 6 pm and midnight from 
Sunday to Thursday.
This is a problem for students who rely 
on the annex to check email, submit home
work, or do research on the Web. [The 
busy signals] are a nuisance, said sopho
more electrical and computer engineer
ing major Chris Martin. Handing in 
homework, checking email, and working 
online are exteremely difficult to do when 
it takes 15 minutes of busy signals to get 
on to the network.
According to CMUs Computing Services, 
which maintains and upgrades the annex,
a simple increase in usage is responsible 
for the busy signals  not reduction in 
service. Executive Director for Comput
ing Services Tracey Futhey said that 
this could be due to a number of reasons. 
One possible reason for the problem is 
that more student computers are able to 
handle high-speed modem connections 
than earlier in the year, said Futhey.
Futhey also said that students may be 
staying logged on to the annex for long 
periods of time to avoid the trouble and 
busy signals of signing on again later. 
Finally, the fact that crunch time is 
beginning and students must be online 
more often for schoolwork could con
tribute to the congestion.
Futhey explains that this is the first 
time in at least five years that there has 
been a significant problem with busy 
signals. When it last happened  about 
five years ago  Computing Services 
introduced Fair Use Guidelines which 
limited students to 15 hours of prime
time usage per week. These guidelines 
still exist today.
Please see MODEMS, page 4
Volume 92, Issue 23Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 190620 April 1998
Some enchanted evening...
Members of the campus community go for a wild ride on the Sea-Ray, one of Spring Carnivals Midway rides, last weekend. For complete 
Carnival coverage, please see page LI.
THE TARTAN
Waste chemicals cause explosion
CMU student receives FulbrightAdministration plans
Candidates present presidential platforms during debate
Inside
Calendar..............................................................14
Classified.............................................................12
Comics...................................................................8
Diversions...........................................................L8Living.....................................LI
Forum......................................................................6
Sports...................................................................11
By MICHELLE CHAO
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
& DAN ARP
Tartan Contributing Editor
A chemical explosion occurred 
in Doherty Hall 1201 Tuesday, 
April 7 when chemical engineer
ing doctoral student Kristen 
Buehler was disposing of waste 
chemicals in her lab.
Buehler, who was not injured 
in the accident, was cleaning up 
when she discovered two bottles 
reportedly labeled as inorganic 
waste in the hazardous waste 
vault. According to the CMU 
police report, she mixed the two 
bottles under a fume hood, then 
bent down to retrieve more 
chemicals. She heard a hissing 
noise coming from the bottle and 
ran to the door as the mixture 
exploded, shattering the glass 
bottle and spraying an acidic 
substance all over the room.
The acid splashed the back of 
Buehlers clothes but did not 
come in contact with her skin. 
The explosion also damaged the 
room, cracking the glass sash of 
the fume hood and marring 
some of the casework and flooring. Another student who was in 
the room with Buehler at the time 
was also uninjured.
According to Ignacio Grossman'; 
head of the Chemical Engineer
ing department, though the; 
bottles of waste were reported to 
be labeled as inorganic, one of the 
bottles actually contained an or-' 
ganic solvent, and the other con
tained nitric acid.
I think what happened in this 
particular case, which was very 
unfortunate, is that the student 
unknowingly mixed two chemical 
substances, said Grossman. It 
was a large exothermic reaction, 
and she was fortunate nothing 
happened to her.
There is some question as to 
whether Buehler was acting 
responsibly when she mixed 
the two substances.
A waste bottles clearly labeled, 
but sometimes people are unaware 
that theres an incompatible mate
rial in there, said Brian Boyars, a 
junior chemical engineering ma
jor. Generally, what youre sup
posed to do before working with 
anything is investigate the incom
patibilities that the material has to 
Please see EXPLOSION, page 3
By ELLEN BELDNER
Tartan News Editor
Last Wednesday, Student Senate 
hosted the first student body presi
dential debate in two years, gathering 
this years four candidates in front of 
Doherty Hall for an hour and a half of 
panel-format questioning.
Panelist Matt Sheby, junior computer 
science major, opened the discussion by 
asking the candidates about their lead
ership experience. Presidential candi
dates Sarah Gross, Ira Fay, Amy Ng, 
and Jamie Chang answered in turn, 
with their respective vice presidential 
candidates Will Toraason, Carrice Delo, 
Elayne Foster, and John Meier also com
menting. Approximately 50 students at
tended the debate, which was also broad
cast over WRCT.
The candidates often agreed with each 
other, citing similar goals of increasing 
communication between students and
the administration and improving the 
quality of campus life.
Its kind of normal for people to agree 
about most of these issues, said Bryon 
Krug, senior electrical and computer 
engineering major and current student 
body president. I think that there are a 
lot of issues in Student Government 
where people see what really needs to be 
done, and its just a matter of doing it. 
Its not as if there are two radically 
different solutions to the problem. 
Theres basically one solution that needs 
to happen; its just a matter of actually 
stepping up and doing it.
Other questions came from panelists 
Becky Cowser, junior creative and pro
fessional writing major; Barbara 
Prvost, coordinator of student accounts; 
and Krug. After the panelists had asked 
their questions, members of the audi
ence also had the opportunity to pose 
questions to the candidates.
For the second question in the debate,
the candidates were asked what their 
response would be if the Committee on 
Exclusive Organizations (CEO) were at 
a standstill and could not decide whether 
or not to fund exclusive organizations.
First, I think an exclusive organiza
tion is a group that does not accept [all] 
members ofthe campus community, said 
Fay, a sophomore computer science ma
jor. In terms of my personal opinion on 
it, I think we should allow funding for an 
event that benefits the entire campus. 
Later, Krug asked the candidates 
what their goals for the presidency 
would be and what they would like to 
accomplish as executive officers of Stu
dent Government.
I dont think that anybody would dis
agree that wed like to have much more 
pride in the University, said Chang in 
his rebuttal to Fays answer that he would 
like to increase school spirit. But [Ng] 
and [Gross] were just stating projects 
Please see DEBATE, page 3Candidates for student body president answer questions outside of Doherty Hall.
7---------------
Living y
Relive the magic of Spring Carnival! 
see page LI
...."""" 11 .... Mark Adato/Tartan Art Co-Editor 'J
Forum
Writer questions Buggy ruling 
 see page 7

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 1998
Page 2...
Ex-Cambodian leader 
dies before capture
ANLONG VENG, Cambodia (AP) - 
Cheating those who believed they were 
days away from capturing him for trial, 
former Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot 
died in the jungle  evading prosecu
tion in the deaths of as many as two 
million countrymen. He was 73.
Cambodians wept in disappointment 
after hearing that Pol Pot had died of 
heart failure Wednesday in a hut 
barely 275 yards from the Thai border, 
even as the last diehard members of 
his vanquished movement were mov
ing toward surrendering him to an 
international tribunal.
He deserved to die. I am only sorry 
that he died so easily without being 
tried, sobbed Kim Saren, whose en
tire family  mother, father, and eight 
brothers and sisters  died under Pol 
Pots regime.
Pol Pots Khmer Rouge ruled Cam
bodia from 1975 to 1979, killing every
one who stood in the way of remaking 
the country into a Marxist agrarian 
regime. One person in five died of 
starvation, illness, or execution.
King Norodom Sihanouk, whom 
the Khmer Rouge deposed, recently 
described Pol Pot as one of the 
most powerful monsters ever created 
by humanity.
Pol Pots wife discovered his body 
when she went to arrange the mos
quito netting around him for the night, 
said Non Nou, his Khmer Rouge jailer.
Skepticism about the news of the 
reclusive leaders death was especially 
strong given the timing. The United 
States sought Chinas aid on April 9 in 
bringing him to trial for crimes against 
humanity, and his comrades-turnedcaptors were mulling over what nation, 
if any, they should surrender him to.
I think we could almost have ar
rested him tomorrow. It was very 
close, said Youk Chhang, director of 
the Documentation Center of Cambo
dia, a Yale University-affiliated project 
gathering evidence against top Khmer 
Rouge leaders in case they are ever 
brought to trial.
A peoples tribunal held at the guer
rillas last stronghold in northern Cam
bodia condemned him in July for crimes 
that included the killing of the groups 
longtime guerrilla defense minister, 
Son Sen, and his family.
The murders were committed by Pol 
Pots henchmen as the group itself was 
in its death throes, sent into irrevo
cable declineby mass defections in 1996.
A Thai general based along the Cam
bodian border estimated today that 
Khmer Rouge troop strength stood at 
2,000 fighters. Cambodian military of
ficials have said it is no more than a 
few hundred.
The Khmer Rouge are spread out 
along a six mile front. Their troop 
strength is more than 2,000; they have 
plenty of small arms, a few artillery 
pices, and a handful of tanks, al
though Im not sure if they are in 
working condition, said General 
Wiwat Sataruk, commander of the 
Suranaree Task Force, headquartered 
in the Thai city of Surin.
On April 17,1975, Pol Pots guerril
las seized Phnom Penh, immediately 
expelled all foreigners, and sealed off 
the country.
This is Year Zero, Pol Pot said.
Society was to be purified, Khmer 
Rouge officials said. The country be
gan a forced march to pure agrarian 
communism  cities were emptied, 
money was abolished, nationwide com
munal kitchens were introduced, 
schools and temples were shut.
Phnom Penh was evacuated at gun
point and its two million people sent to 
work in the countryside.
Marked for death were educated 
people, religious or ethnic minorities, 
Buddhist monks, and anyone sus
pected of ties with the former govern
ment or who questioned the regime.
In 1997, an interviewer asked Pol 
Pot if a daughter born to him after a
1987 marriage would be proud of him 
when she grew up.
I dont know about that, Pol Pot 
responded. Its up to history to judge.
Internet traffic 
rapidly increases
WASHINGTON (AP) - More Ameri
cans are using and conducting business 
over the Internet, a new Commerce De
partment study has found, and few places 
is the trend more apparent than in the 
airline reservations business.
Using new services that let them act 
as their own travel agent, increasing 
numbers of fliers are going online to 
check flight times and air fares and to 
buy their own tickets.
In 1996, Internet users booked $276 
million worth of travel business online
 90 percent of which was for airplane 
tickets, according to the study released 
Wednesday. In 1997, the volume tripled 
to $827 million, with airline tickets again 
constituting the bulk of the business.
By 2000, the Commerce Department 
predicts, online travel sales could 
total $5 billion. That is expected to trail 
only Internet sales of computer products 
and books.
Operators of online travel services say 
their product is perfectly tailored for 
point-and-click devotees.
The Internet  with its pictures, its 
ability to provide video clips, to offer 
ratings of different hotels  is really the 
perfect service for those travelers who 
want to be in control of their destiny, 
said James. Marsicano, vice president 
and general manager of Sabre Interac
tive. The company operates easySabre 
and Travelocity, two of the most popular 
Internet reservations services.
The Commerce Department study, 
called The Emerging Digital 
Economy, found that information tech
nology  including business on the 
Internet  is growing twice as fast as 
the overall economy.
The industry employs 7.4 million work
ers, some of whom earn among the 
nations highest average salaries. Mean
while, Internet traffic has doubled every 
100 days and Internet commerce among 
business will likely surpass $300 billion 
by 2002, the report said.
Travel reservations have boomed as 
vacationers discovered they could go on
line and get highway directions, recom
mended itineraries, photos of hotels and 
other information such as the local 
weather. The airline ticket services link
computer users to the same reservation 
systems used by travel agents and air
line reservations agents.
Airlines benefit, too. They pay none or 
only half the standard eight percent 
commission on tickets booked over the 
Internet, and they can cut their person
nel costs. They also can dump unused 
seats at the last minute by sending emails offering special cyberfares.
Any time you can take a human being 
out of the equation, you know what hap
pens there: Bits and bytes dont go on 
vacation or take sick days, said Marsicano.
Suns rays, water 
could power cars
WASHINGTON (AP) - Run an auto
mobile on only water and sunlight  
without pollution? Too good to be true?
It has been a dream of scientists for 
years. Now, two researchers at a fed
eral laboratory say they have created a 
device that could bring such a car a step 
closer to reality and turn the sun and 
water into a pollution-free substitute 
for gasoline.
Scientists caution that the process, 
using solar power to split water into 
hydrogen and oxygen to create a new 
energy source, while technologically 
proven, is still too expensive for com
mercial development.
But the researchers at the National 
Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, 
Colorado, said they developed a one-step 
process that significantly reduced the 
cost, while improving energy efficiency.
This could substantially cut the cost 
of using solar power to produce hydro
gen from water through a process 
known as electrolysis, said John 
Turner, a chemist at the laboratory, 
who outlined his research in Fridays 
issue of Science magazine.
Eventually, the most environmentally 
beneficial approach would be to get hy
drogen from water, using solar power to 
split the hydrogen and oxygen molecules, 
Turner contends. This way, no fossil 
energy source wouldbe needed, and emis
sions, including greenhouse gases, would 
be eliminated.
The bottom line is cost, said Sandy 
Thomas, a vice president of Directed 
Technologies Inc. of Arlington, Va., which 
has been a technical consultant on hy
drogen fuel cells to both the Energy
Department and Ford Motor Co.
Getting hydrogen from natural gas 
is now the cheapest way to make it, 
said Thomas, and it would be good 
news if the costs of using solar power 
and water were in the range outlined 
by Turner. That would be a real boost 
for the environment.
Turner anticipates years more of re
search before solar-hydrogen fuel will 
be commercially feasible. But he envi
sions that perhaps within two or three 
decades there may be corner hydro
gen fuel stations equipped with solar 
panels and devices that covert every
day water into fuel for the next 
centurys automobiles.
Iraqis march for 
leaders birthday
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)  Thousands of i 
Iraqis armed with AK-47 rifles marchedj 
through Baghdad last Saturday in a show 
of defiance to the United States.
The marchers were part of a huge 
civilian defense force that was estab
lished during a standoff with the United 
Nations over weapons inspections ear
lier this year.
Government-owned media said Sat
urday that millions of Iraqis, who un
derwent training since the standoff, were 
ready to fight any foreign aggression.
The training included the use of' 
machine guns, rocket launchers, andhand grenades.
The march on Saturday was to coin
cide with nationwide celebrations mark
ing Saddams birthday on April 28, ac
cording to Iraqi media. The celebrations 
began Thursday throughout the coun
try. The largest party was in Tikrit, the 
Iraqi leaders hometown.
Saddam did not attend the march, but 
senior Iraqi officials watched from a 
platform in the Grand Celebrations ;.j 
Square, and thousands of Iraqis packed | 
the surrounding park.
Soldiers blocked traffic and imposed 
strict security measures in the district 3 
of the park, where Saddams Republi
can Palace and other government of
fices are located.
Iraq has traditionally held lavish fes
tivals to mark Saddams birthday, de
spite grinding poverty blamed on U.N. 
economic sanctions imposed after Iraqs 
1990 invasion of Kuwait.
Yahoo! Internet Life ranks 
universities connectivity
The following are the top ten "wired" colleges in the United States, according 
to the latest issue of Yahoo! Internet Life magazine. The magazine ranked 100 
schools in its May issue using criteria that included opportunities for distance 
learning, submitting homework electronically, email, Internet training, and 
online college registration.
1. Dartmouth College
2. New Jersey Institute of 
Technology
3. Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology
4. Rensselaer Polytechnic
5. University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign
6. Carnegie Mellon University
7. California Institute of 
Technology
8. Indiana University,
Bloomington
9. University of Oregon
10. Worcester Polytechnic
Institute
courtesy of AP
U.S. trade deficit reaches record high
WASHINGTON (AP)Americas trade 
deficit climbed to a monthly record of 
$12.1 billion in February as sales to Japan 
plummeted. The Clinton administration, 
worried about a political backlash from 
soaring deficits, said Japan must do more 
to restart its economy and create markets.
The Commerce Department said the 
February deficit in goods and services 
was 4.2 percent higher than a revised 
$11.6 billion imbalance in January, as 
U.S. merchandise exports fell to their 
lowest point in a year.
In a second report Friday, the Federal 
Reserve said that while output at the 
nations factories, mines and utilities rose 
by 0.2 percent in March, that was due 
primarily to a huge rebound in utility 
output following unusually mild weather.
Output at U.S. factories actually fell 
for a second straight month, and overall
industrial production for the quarter was 
up just 0.9 percent, the worst showing 
since the 1990-91 recession.
Analysts blamed the drop in indus
trial production and the falling export 
sales on the Asian currency crisis, which 
has slashed economic demand in some of 
Americas biggest markets.
Clearly, Asia is beginning to have a 
big impact on the U.S. economy, said 
Larry Chimerine, chief economist at 
the Economic Strategy Institute, a 
Washington think tank. Every capital-goods exporter has seen a sharp 
falloff in their orders and we havent 
seen the worst yet.
Other economists forecast that the fall
out from a widening trade deficit would 
subtract as much as two percentage points 
from economic growth this quarter. How
ever, with domestic demand remaining
strong, the economy was still expected to: 
grow at a respectable three percent.
But the administration is clearly con- ; 
cerned that record trade deficits will 
increase protectionist pressures in this 
country. Already, the President was 
forced to travel to the free-trade summit 
in Santiago, Chile, this week without 
congressional authority to negotiate for 
his cherished goal of a hemisphere-wide, . 
free-trade zone.
In an effort to at least restrain the  
rising deficits, Clinton and others in his 
administration have increased pressure 
on Japan to do more to boost its economy, 
which is the worlds second largest.
Secretary of the Treasury Robert Rubin 
repeatedly stressed duringfinance meet
ings that it was critical for Japan to 
quickly implement a $123 billion stimu
lus program it announced last week.
Four-Day Forecast
Tuesday
fc
Showers.
Hi 61 Lo 37
Wednesday
TH
Showers.
Hi 56 Lo 44
ThursdayMostly cloudy. 
Hi 56 Lo 43
FridaySunny.
> Hi 66 Lo 44
Carnegie Almanac
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, May 4,1948
 In an effort to explain what 
engineering students might face 
after graduation, The Tartan 
profiled graduate Frederick C. 
Corey. Corey, who was selected 
as the typical, average Carnegie 
Tech graduate of the last five 
years, enrolled in 1940. World 
War II fell during his university 
career and he was called to ac
tive duty in the Pacific theater 
for the army; he resumed his 
studies after the war and gradu
ated in 1947.
Upon graduation, he went to 
work in the engineering labora
tory of the Hoover Corporation 
in North Canton, Ohio, where he 
was involved in cost analysis and 
development work. At Carnegie 
Tech, he was a member of the 
Theta Xi fraternity and was con
sidered the best table tennis 
player on campus.
25 YEARS AGO, April 24, 
1973  Charles L. Bauer, asso
ciate professor of metallurgy and 
materials science, was selected 
by the National Academy of Sci
ences for a one-month survey 
visit of the Soviet Union. The 
exchange program organized by 
the U.S. National Academy of 
Sciences and the USSR Acad
emy of Sciences called for Bauer 
to lecture at 16 metallurgy insti
tutes in five Soviet cities.
Bauer, who came to CMU in 
1961, is currently affiliated with 
the department of materials sci
ence and engineering.
10 YEARS AGO, April 19,
1988  Two activists were ar
rested in a demonstration pro
testing CMUs involvement in 
military projects. Vince Eirene 
and Kevin Forsythe, leaders of 
the protest, knelt in front of the
entrance to the Software Engi
neering Institutes parking lot, 
while a group of 15 to 20 activ
ists held picket signs in front of 
the building.
After defying police instruc
tions to move, Eirene and 
Forsythe were arrested on 
charges of disorderly conduct and 
obstructing traffic.
FIVE YEARS AGO, April 19, 
1993  Posner Hall, the 
Graduate School of Industrial 
Administrations (GSIA) new build
ing, was dedicated in a ceremony 
led by President Mehrabian. Paul 
Allaire, GSIA class of 1966 and 
chair of the Xerox Corporation, de
livered the keynote address. The 
building, which houses GSIA pro
fessors and classrooms, connects 
with the original GSIA building 
built in 1952, freeing space there. 
GSIAs new home was named for
the parents of emeritus trustee 
Henry Posner, Jr.
ONE YEAR AGO, April 21, ; 
1997  Dr. Jared C. Cohon was 1 
formally introduced to the 
Carnegie Mellon community, de- , 
livering his inaugural address to 
a packed McConomy Auditorium. 
The standing-room-only audito
rium was not the only place to 
view the introduction. Through a 
closed-circuit broadcast, those not 
fortunate enough to see the event 
were allowed to watch on moni
tors in the Connan Room.
Receptions in Cohons honor 
were held both before, in the 
Alumni Hall, and afterward, in 
Rangos. In the second reception, 
students were allowed to meet - 
President Mehrabians successor. ;
Compiled by 
LUKE BRINDLE

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 19983
Chemical explosion 
damages equipment
EXPLOSION, from page 1
see how you have to dispose of 
it. Buehler also was reportedly 
not wearing safety glasses at 
the time, though lab rules 
require it.
Buehler declined to comment 
for this article. But according 
to Grossman, Buehler was 
aware of the safety precautions 
necessary in the lab.
We do put enough signs in 
our labs about handling things 
carefully.... I think this is a 
situation where she did some
thing without really paying at
tention, said Grossman.
Environmental & Health 
Safety (EH&S) was called in to 
examine and clean up the lab. 
The process was complete by 
early the next afternoon.
The task now, according to 
Grossman, is to learn from what 
has happened. Madelyn Miller, 
the director of EH&S met with 
ChemE faculty last Thursday 
to discuss the incident and ways 
similar accidents might be 
avoided in the future.
The accident is really giv
ing us a warning signal, said 
Grossman. We will take mea
sures to improve safety.
Student Senate Minutes
Meeting of April 9, 1998.
STUDENT
Senate Elections...
Candidates debate issues
DEBATE, from page 1
that theyre already on. You cant 
use that as a basis for a presi
dency; you need to be able to see 
ahead and see that there may be 
projects where you dont know 
whats coming. You need to be 
able to work on those proj ects with
out having any prior experience. 
Prevost asked the candidates 
what methods they planned to 
use to communicate with students.
One thing [that is important] is 
having open forums for students
 having very informal rap ses
sions for students with the presi
dent or the vice president or both, 
said Gross. Meetings with orga
nizational leaders or representa
tives from the different colleges 
can also be very good. But I think 
more than that, [it takesl just oneon-one contact with people from 
different organizations or differ
ent colleges to really... see how 
things are going.
Chang said that he favored sur
veys and Town Meetings to so
licit student opinions.
Ng and her vice prsidential can
didate Elayne Foster supported 
the idea of using focus groups, 
Town Meetings, and CMU resi
dent assistants to increase com
munication between the execu
tive branch and the student body. 
I also think having a newsletter 
sent out by the executive branch 
is a good way to inform the stu
dent body of what projects were 
working on, said Ng.
Krug said that he was pleased 
with the outcome of the debate. I 
think that the purpose of the de
bate was to allow people to get to 
know the candidates, to see how 
they feel about issues and how 
they think about issues, and to get 
a feel for what type of person they 
are and what their goals are as 
student body president, he said. 
I think its a matter of how people 
are going to prioritize their duties 
as student body president.... It 
wasnt so much how they feel dif
ferently about issues, but how they 
feel differently about, how issues 
should be prioritized.
SENATE
Meeting called to order at 5:35 
pm. Roll was taken at 5:35 pm.
Senators Present: Ablak 
(SIA), Betz (SCS), Brown (HSS), 
Butler (CIT), Candela (CFA), 
Chang (MCS), Christoforatos 
(MISC), Devine (HSS), Ditterline 
(CIT), Falso (SAL), Go (SIA), Gray 
(HSS), Gross (HSS), Guerra (CIT), 
Guzy (HSS), Hardjanto (SCS), 
Hunt (CIT), Hutsko (MCS), Jones 
(CFA), Joshi (MCS), McCartin 
(CIT), Meier (CIT), Merry (SAL), 
Muir (HSS), Ng (CIT), Phelps 
(SCS), Rothschild (CIT), Rumpf 
(CIT), Schneider (CIT), Shah 
(SIA), Sinnamohideen (SAL), 
Stovall (MCS), Tassone (SCS), 
Tham (SIA).
Senators Absent: Cina(CFA), 
Lu (HSS), Mingo (SIA), You (SIA).
Approval of the Minutes:
Minutes for April 2,1998 were 
amended and approved by 
voice vote.
Ex-Officio Reports:
Division of Student Affairs
(Barbara Prevost): The Univer
sity Allocations Board will be 
making allocation decisions for the 
third floor. Recommendations will 
be out on Monday. Organizations 
will then have a week to appeal 
decisions before being brought to 
Dean Murphy. The University 
Committee applications for next 
fall will be out on Monday.
Student Body President
(Bryon Krug): The Calendar Com
mittee meeting went rather well
GuardianSelfStorage
STUDENT SUMMER SPECIALS
Rent a Storage Room & Receive:
25% OFF 1ST MONTH
Bring a Friend who Rents a 2nd Room & Receive: 
50% OFF 1ST MONTH on BOTH ROOMS
SHADYSIDE
687-7368
750 S. Millvale Ave.441-7368
5873 Centre Ave.
- Temperature & Humidity Controlled Space 
- Modern, Clean, State-of-the-Art Facilities 
- Individual Door Security Alarms 
- Fully Enclosed Loading Docks
- Trucks for Rent
today. They seem to have stopped 
talking about moving midsem
ester break to a Friday. Still no 
word on Spring break.
Also, the CEO is nearing a con
clusion. The focus groups last 
week went very well. The recom
mendations, which may include 
proposed Bylaws and Constitu
tion changes, should be ready af
ter Carnival. There will be a spe
cial meeting on April 21 at 8 pm, 
location to be announced. The 
meeting will allow the CEO to 
present their recommendations 
and answer questions. This will 
also allow us to complete some 
other items before we go into bud
geting meetings.
The Morewood Basement Com
mittee has had problems regard
ing the FMS study that needs to 
be done before any plans can be 
finalized. We have been told that 
the FMS study is now underway 
for real.
Finally, we will be presenting 
the results of the Student Gov
ernment report on course infor
mation that the Academic Com
mittee, Matt Phelps, and myself 
put together.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Amy Ng): 
We will be presenting a resolu
tion today on academic integrity 
and a speaker will be here to 
address questions. Changes in 
OLR are published in The Tar
tan. Schedule of classes will be in 
mailboxes next week. Faculty 
Course Evaluations and registra
tion will occur the week after 
Spring Break.
Campus Affairs (Sarah 
Gross): Met with Frank Fulmer 
to discuss a variety of issues re
garding dining services. We dis
cussed issues such as meal plans, 
vending machines, prices, 
DineXpress, and menu variety. If 
you have any comments or con
cerns please email Frank at 
fulmer@andrew.cmu.edu.
Focus groups are being set up 
to address possible improvements 
to the UC. They will be meeting 
tomorrow. Once the focus group 
has convened, we will be doing 
surveys outside of Doherty.
Funding and Recognition
(given by Keith Rothschild): We
met yesterday. Funding and Rec
ognition was approached by three 
organizations, one of which we 
will be presenting to Senate.
Human Resources (Jamie 
Chang): HR met last Tuesday. 
We worked on mo re revamping of 
the Bylaws. We decided to add 
acting as parliamentarian to the 
duties of the vice chair, that members-at-large shouldnt be able to 
vote in committee, to add appoint
ing acting committee chairs to 
the powers of the chair, to add 
recommending fiscal policy 
changes to the duties of the Fund
ing and Recognition Committee, 
to add expulsion of disruptive 
audience members to the duties 
of the chair, to change the name 
of the Human Resource Commit
tee to the Internal Affairs Com
mittee, and to refer to Websters 
New Collegiate Dictionary for 
undefined terms in the Bylaws. I 
spoke with Nicole Cook, Elections 
Board Chair, briefly. She has 
agreed to the basic layout of bal
lots and to the use of colored pa
per. I am working with Alpha Phi 
Omega to use their ballot box for 
the elections.
I went before the Funding and 
Recognition Committee yester
day to get approval of the special 
allocation to purchase the PC. 
The Committee denied the requ
est because of the lack of time 
available to HR to continue 
working on the project and the 
time required in delivery, this 
may have effectively killed 
chances of the purchase occur
ring this session.
I am very disappointed by this 
decision; however, I still plan to 
bring it up later in the meeting 
and hope it will pass Senate de
spite the recommendation.
John Muir was removed from 
his position as Senator from H&SS 
because of too many absences from 
regular HR meetings.
The Budget Sheet Primer is 
available. All Senators should 
pick up a copy, especially those 
who are unfamiliar with budget 
sheets and the budgeting pro
cess. Please direct questions 
about the process to the members 
of the Join Funding Committee.
Direct any questions concern
ing the Human Resources Com
mittee to me at pet@cmu.edu, or 
call 862-3593.
Chair (Jen Gray): The next: 
two meetings will be April 23; 
and April 30. These meetings 
will also serve as joint meetings 
with GSA for budgeting. In light, 
of this, our schedule will be al
tered as follows:
April 23  The meeting will be; 
called to order at 4:45 pm. The! 
time to adjourn will be set asj 
5:30 pm. At 5:30, we will move! 
into the joint session and begin 
the budgeting process.
April 30  The meeting will be 
called to order at 5:30 pm as; 
usual. We will being in a joint; 
session and complete the bud-; 
geting process.
From there, we will move into 
the final Senate meeting for this 
session. We will wrap up any; 
business we have outstanding; 
and this session will close. At the: 
end of that meeting, the first 
meeting of the incoming Senate 
will be called to order.
New Business From Com
mittee:
S98-029  Statement of Aca
demic Integrity. Found in th fac
ulty, student, and staff hand
books, this is the first step in 
CMUs ongoing effort to identify 
and implement the kind of soci
ety its members wish to enjoy. 
This statement will be followed 
by implementation strategies as 
the task force on academic integ
rity continues its work. Approved 
by voice vote.
S98-030  Non-funded Recog
nition of Singapore Students As
sociation. Approved by voice vote.
S98-031  Approval of addi
tional members of the Elections 
Board.
S98-032  Approval of Nomi
nations for the University Com
mittee on Discipline.
New Business:
Womens Center Motion
Move $500 from the consulting to 
capital in their current budget. 
Approved by voice vote.
Edited by 
ELLEN BELDNER 
Submitted by 
LORI LEE
Crime and Incident Report
4/12 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
11:23 am  A Mudge House resi
dent assistant called Campus 
Police regarding a fire extin
guisher that had been discharged 
onto the carpet, causing another 
resident to suffer an asthma at
tack. Several people saw the male 
spray the extinguisher near the 
Mudge lounge and TV room. They 
said that he came down the Atower stairs swinging the nozzle 
of the extinguisher up and down, 
spraying the white powder over 
the rail at the witnesses. The 
actor then went back up the stairs 
and placed the extinguisher back 
inside its rack. The witnesses said 
that they did not know the name 
of the actor, but that they did 
know the name of the other male 
who was standing atop the stair
well and laughing.
When the officer arrived, he 
checked the extinguisher and 
saw that the pin had been pulled 
out of it. He told the witnesses 
not to confront the actor upon 
his return, but instead to call 
Campus Police.
Later than night, when the ac
tor came back, the resident assis
tant notified Campus Police, and 
the responding officer went to the 
actors room. The officer explained 
to the actor the seriousness of his 
actions and issued him an inter
nal citation for criminal mischief.
4/15 MEDICAL, 6:42 pm - 
While on another call at 
Morewood Gardens, a Campus 
Police officer and two student 
EMS members who were accom
panying him were flagged down 
by a fraternity brother. He told 
them that one of his brothers had 
struck his head on some wood 
while working on their booth and
was bleeding badly.
The officer responded to Mid
way where he found the victim 
sitting on the stairs with blood 
running down his face and hands 
onto the stairs. Student EMS as
sessed and bandaged the victim, 
and the officer transported him 
to the Presbyterian Hospital 
emergency room.
The victim was a member of 
the same fraternity as the victim 
in the previous incident report.
4/15 MEDICAL, 3:50 pm - 
Student EMS radioed Campus 
Police, saying that they were 
treating someone at Midway. The 
student had struck his head on 
the second-floor platform of his 
fraternitys Carnival booth. The 
laceration that resulted was one 
inch in length.
4/17 MEDICAL, 11:35 pm - 
Two males were horsing around 
outside Morewood Gardens. One 
of the males bumped into the 
newspaper box which fell onto 
the other males foot, crushing it. 
Campus Police were contacted, 
and Student EMS wrapped the 
injured foot with an ice pack. The 
officer then took the injured male 
to University of Pittsburgh Medi
cal Center where it was deter
mined that the foot was broken 
and would require surgery.
4/18 INTOXICATION/DRUG 
USE, 3:25 am  While on patrol, 
a Campus Police officer received 
a call instructing him to report to 
Devonshire Road. When he ar
rived, he saw an unconscious in
dividual lying face down in 
someones lawn. The actor was 
unresponsive to questioning due 
to her intoxication. Pittsburgh
city medics were contacted to take 
her to the hospital. Before the 
medics arrived, the officers con
ducted a search of the actors per
son and in her purse found a clear! 
Ziploc bag which contained mari-j 
juana. The actor was then takento University of Pittsburgh Medi-i 
cal Center.i
4/19 UNDERAGE DRINK-! 
ING, 1:29 am  Two officers on! 
fraternity patrol saw a male walk-! 
ing around in the quad carrying a! 
clear plastic bottle two-thirds full! 
of what appeared to be beer. The! 
officers approached the actor and! 
asked him what was in the bottle.!
Instead of replying, the male! 
simply poured the contents on the! 
ground. The contents smelled and' 
foamed like beer. When the offic-, 
ers asked where he got the beer,j 
he replied, Theres no beer in! 
here now. The officers proceeded! 
to ask him for identification. When! 
they determined that he was not! 
of age, they issued him a state! 
citation for underage possession.;
 Campus Chief of Police James! 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior] 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tar-\ 
tan staff see the reports: the edi-\ 
tor-in-chief, the news editor, and! 
the staff writer typing the report.1
 All personal names of com-', 
plainants, victims, suspects, and, 
fraternity names are omitted! 
from the printed report. Ethnic! 
descriptions and other personal\ 
details are given only in the con-', 
text of complete descriptions. !
 Not every incident that oc-\
curs appears in the report. I i i
Compiled by! 
RYAN SCHILLING'

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 1998
CMU plans dial-in upgrade
New technologies will speed access
MODEMS, from page 1
This time, however, Computing Ser
vices does not suggest limiting usage 
further as a solution to the current 
overload. Quickly adding new mo
dems to the Annex is not possible due 
to prohibitive costs (according to 
Futhey, additional connections cost 
around $1000 each). Computing Ser
vices hopes to solve the problem next 
semester by puchasing between 24 
and 48 new high-speed (X2 and 33.6 
kbps) Annex connections.
The long-term solution to the acces
sibility issue may not lie in modems at 
all. One of the most promising devel
opments in increasing off-campus net
work accessibility has been Asymmet
ric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) 
services. For a monthly fee, these con
nections use digital phone lines to pro
vide users with Ethernet-speed con
nections. Recently, Bell Atlantic tested 
this new technology at CMU.
[The testingl was a huge success, 
said vice provost for Computing Ser
vices Alex Hills. Everything worked.
Hills explained that the school is 
now waiting for an announcement by 
Bell Atlantic about an implementa
tion schedule for ADSL service. He is 
optimistic that Bell Atlantic will choose 
the CMU area and that service will 
begin soon after the fall semester. To 
use the new ADSL services, students 
will have to upgrade their hardware 
since standard modems are not com
patible with the new technology.
Do I expect it to have an immediate 
impact on the traffic in the modem 
pools? No, not for at least a few semes
ters, said Hills. The new technology 
will not reduce the stress on the mo
dem pool until off-campus residents 
purchase ADSL-compatible hardware.
Despite the planned upgrades, offcampus accessibility will remain a 
problem for the duration of the sem
ester. We encourage individuals to 
limit their work during peak hours to 
only their most important activities, 
said Futhey.
ECE senior earns prestigous award
FULBRIGHT, from page 1
Berkeley National Laboratory as the Ohio 
representative to the Department of 
Energys High SchoolHonors Program in 
Life Sciences and Biotechnology.
At the lab, besides attending lectures 
and gaining lab experience, each stu
dent got practice at writing a grant pro
posal, said Alterovitz. It was this pro
posal that he submitted to the Small 
Undergraduate Research Grant commit
tee during the first semester of his fresh
man year. After receving the grant, 
Alterovitz worked on the project under 
ECE professor Jos Moura.
The Fulbright scholarship is not the
first time Alterovitz has been recognized 
for his achievements. Alterovitz has been 
in three editions of USA Today, twice for 
the All-USA College Academic Team com
petition. He has a patent pending with 18 
claims, an Intellectual Property Award 
from Motorola, and a 4.0 QPA at CMU.
Alterovitz plans to attend graduate 
school at the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology after his studies in 
Canada are finished, but his long-term 
goals are still not set.
I intend to pursue a career that will 
allow me to make a difference in the 
world by developing something new, such 
as a medical device or method, that
allows people to have longer, healthier 
lives, he said.
For now, though, its back to the grind
stone for Alterovitz  the final stretch 
before graduation filled with papers, 
projects, and finals.
Some people seem to look at me dif
ferently this past week, as if Id won a 
Nobel Prize or something, he said. Yet 
Im really just the same person I was a 
few days ago: a senior trying to com
plete my courses and graduate, just 
like everyone else.
[Ed. Note: Gil Alterovitz is a Tartan 
Senior Staffwriter.]
Carnegie Mellon In Brief
Corrections/Clarifications...
In Issue 22, the article Forum explains variety of views incorrectly stated 
that the forum was organized by CMUnity. Although many of the students who 
organized the event met through their participation in CMUnity, the forum 
was not organized by a formally recognized CMU organization.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please 
contact Editor-in-Chief Becky A. Cowser at tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
Proposal puts FCE 
information online
In response to a study and proposal 
submitted by Student Senate, CMUs 
administration has made Faculty Course 
Evaluation (FCE) data available via The 
HUBs World Wide Web site {http:// 
www.cmu.edu/hub) and has updated 
Online Registration (OLR) to include 
automatic prerequisite checking.
Rather than using the telnet inter
face that students have had to use to 
access FCE data, students can now use 
a standard form-CGI interface to dis
play information on courses and profes
sors. The prerequisite information is 
listed by department; the Web site also 
can check individual students academic 
records to see if they have met the
prerequisites for specific courses.
The two-phase plan to increase course 
information was proposed to th admin
istration by Student Senate. Phase I 
includes the OLR and FCE improve
ments; Phase II, which will be imple
mented for Spring 1999 registration, 
tentatively will include links to course 
syllabi and information on exam dates.
UACC recommends 
academic calendar
Last Thursday, the University Aca
demic Calendar Committee (UACC) met 
to finalize its recommendation for the 
1998-1999 academic calendar. The com
mittee, whose decision is usually ap
proved by the University President and 
Provost, recommended that spring break 
remain at the 11th week of the semester
and that fall and spring midsemester 
breaks occur on Mondays.
The committees previous proposals 
raised controversy among the student 
body with suggestions to move spring 
break between mini-courses three and 
four  two weeks earlier in the aca
demic year than break is currently. 
Additionally, the committee discussed 
the idea of adding an extra week to the 
end of next years fall semester.
When the proposals were initially made 
public in February, many students prot
ested the UACCs recommendation, ar
guing that the decision had been made 
without their input. The administration 
held a Town Meeting on March 11, which 
over a hundred students attended.
Compiled by 
ELLEN BELDNER
Peters Cellar
Christian Coffee House
co-sponsored by United Campus Ministry 
and Albright United Methodist Church
Every Friday, 8-1 I pm @ Albright UMC, 
corner of Center Ave & S. Grahm in Shadyside 
Call 628-1051 for details or email check+@andrew.cmu.edu
BARTENDER
Be Certified In Just Two Weeks!
Learn Hands On Training In Our Actual Wet Bar Classroom 
Licensed By State Department of Education
----------------Day & Evening Classes Available-----------------
JOB PLACEMENT PROGRAM 
CALL EgETftTONOW!
Pittsburgh Bartender School
Introducing Prepaid Wireless from AT&T.
No annual contract required. No credit check. 
No deposit. No monthly statement.
No, really. We mean it. With the AT&T Airtime Card, wireless service 
is basically yours for the asking. Worried about your credit history?
You dont need one. Concerned about monthly statements? There arent any. 
just buy the amount of airtime you want, $25 or $50, and use it when you want.
Its all within your reach.AT&T
915-0226
www.atLcom/wirless/
When you run out, buy some more. With no annual contract required, there's 
no hassle. Just call or stop by your AT&T store or an authorized AT&T dealer. 
Were ready when you are. AT&T Wireless Services
AT&T Wireless Services Authorized Locations I
? FULL SERVICE RETAIL STORES? BEAVER VALLEY MALL? MONROEVILLE MALL
Gallery Shops. Peters Township  942-5808(Sears end o( the mall) 728-5585Lower Level (Kaufmann's end of the mall) 374-8200
Strip District, 2400 Penn Ave.  355-2355? CENTURY III MALL? SOUTH HILLS VILLAGE MALLWestmoreland Mall Annex  832-9662Lower Level (In front of Kaufmannes) 655-9588Upper Level  851-0995
Wexford Shopping Center  934-0444? FAST LINK
5924 Penn Ave. *363-1377
Experience the freedom 
to advance your career, 
the flexibility to 
stretch your limits and 
an environment 
where your 
entrepreneurial spirit 
is well respected.
Sequent Computer 
Systems, the 
acknowledged expert in 
enterprise-class, highavailability open systems, 
has extreme opportunities 
available for engineers 
with a passion for 
developing technological 
breakthroughs. Sequent 
has developed such 
advances as the NUMA-Q 
2000 Data Center 
Ready computing 
platform - a breakthrough 
of incredible proportions 
producing unprecedented 
levels of scalability and 
power for enterprise 
computing.
At Sequent, 
we re changing 
the way the world does 
business... watch us or 
join us.
Take Your
These opportunities |and more) are available in our Eau Claire, WI facility wheie 
we live by a Silicon Valley start-up mentality and a strong Midwestern work ethic. 
Senior NT Performance Engineer 
Senior NT/Application Verification Engineer 
Senior NT Platform Integration Engineers 
Senior NT Software Development Engineers 
NT Software Component Testing Engineer 
Senior System Circuitry Engineer 
Senior Board/Logic Design Engineers 
Senior Mechanical Design Engineer 
Senior Product Engineer 
Your dedication will be rewarded with world-class compensation, benefits and 
stock options. To be considered, send your resume with salary requirements, to: 
Sequent Computer Systems, c/o Tlburon Group Inc., Dept. CMU0420, 
4753 N. Broadway, Suite 502, Chicago, IL 60640-3700. Fax: (800) 
323-3!70. E-mail: engineer.job&tiburongroup.com
Meet with Sequent Hiring Managers at the PSI Technical Job Fair on Tuesday, April 21st from 11am  7pm at the David Lawrence Convention Center 
Eau Claire offers affordable housing, excellent schools, and an 
environment where families thrive. Learn more about our area at: www. eauciaire-info. comE5EOUEnT
An equal opportunity empi over, diversity strengthens

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 1906THE TARTAN
#1 Cause of Suicide
UNTREATED
Public Service message from SAW/E (Suicide AwarenessWoices'of Education)http://www.save.org
inteMieW.
The Tartan seeks highly motivated, 
highly dedicated, and highly 
enthusiastic individuals with strong 
public relations, organization, and 
communication skills.
It's Seal
 it's SMOTHERING
__ u,
p , tetJS OF SUIVIS,
dio^e tetd
^ oxides coutd be
eui^MAted evesv THEAR 
Yoo^ eves woNt notice
diFFe^Mce. 
H^eeA^cAu.
It is an unbearable nothingness
ITSDEPRESSION,
It has a biological explanation. 
It Strikes 1 in 10 Americans
treatment for it is very successful
It injects you with negativity.
It pulls you away from 
the world you once knew
IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO BE LIKE THIS
Its onset can be so subtle 7011 dont notice it.
IT CAN KILL YOU
IF YOU DONT RECOGNIZE IT.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University20 April 1998
Senate must improve 
presidential debate
Student Senate made an attempt 
to increase participation in the 
elections this year by holding an 
outdoor debate between the stu
dent body presidential candidates 
and their vice presidential run
ning mates. The event, held last 
Thursday, was an improvement 
from the preparations made for 
elections in the past few years, 
when platform information was 
inadequately distributed. But de
spite Senates increased effort this 
year, poor preparation by the can
didates and debate organizers 
made the event ineffective.
The primary purpose for holding 
such a debate is to clearly define 
each candidates stance on campus 
issues. Additionally, the debate 
should serve to highlight the ac
complishments and leadership ex
perience of each candidate. This 
years debate did not accomplish 
these goals, primarily because the 
candidates were not well-versed in 
the debate format and seemed to 
be inexperienced public speakers.
The candidates would have suc
cinctly explained their views if they 
had given straightforward an
swers to the questions asked by 
the panelists and audience mem
bers. Instead, they either evaded 
the question or agreed with the 
comments of the person who spoke 
before them. The strongest parts 
of the debate were when a few 
candidates got up the nerve to 
voice a rebuttal, but it happened 
far too infrequently for audience 
members to discern a great differ
ence in the candidates platforms. 
Panelists and audience members 
raised questions about the quality 
of student life, funding for exclu
sive organizations, and how the 
future President will represent the 
needs of graduate students. Can
didates should have expected these 
questions and adequately pre
pared for them before the debate.
In addition to the candidates
insufficient presentations, Sen
ate poorly organized the event. 
The candidates should have been 
informed about the logistics of 
the debate in advance instead of 
ten minutes prior to answering 
questions. The moderator should 
have been instrumental in facili
tating the discussion and better 
enforcing the time limits for each 
speaker, but this was close to 
impossible since he was not told 
what his role in the debate would 
be until he arrived and asked 
what he should be doing.
Senate could also have provided 
guidelines on how to speak at a 
debate and what types of ques
tions to expect. This would have 
guided novice public speakers on 
how to prepare for the debate 
and increased the quality of the 
debate for all involved.
In addition, the Senate orga
nizers did not publicize the event 
well, whichled to low attendance. 
A banner was hung over Doherty 
Hall the day of the debate but 
students were not given enough 
prior notice. If Senate organizers 
had placed more posters up 
around campus and placed 
flyers in student mailboxes, the 
event would have been better at
tended. Also, Senators should 
have contacted their constituents 
to encourage them to attend 
the debate.
The result of the inadequate 
preparation by the candidates 
and the poor organization by Sen
ate was an ineffective debate. 
The students were not informed 
about the platforms of the candi
dates and are now more likely to 
make an uninformed decision 
when voting, or they may not 
bother to vote at all. If Senate 
is truly committed to increasing 
student participation during 
elections, they must improve the 
quality of the debate between 
the candidates.
Students need to cast 
ballots for president
Over the past few years, CMUs 
Student Body President (SBP) has 
worked at students request to 
expand Faculty Course Evalua
tions, make the administration 
cancel classes on MLK Day, im
prove Skibo gym, and stop aca
demic calendar changes. These few 
examples alone prove that the per
son who holds this position also 
holds a tremendous amount of 
power. But while the student body 
depends on the SBP to voice its 
opinions to administration and 
Senate, only a handful of people 
turn out to determine who should 
be the SBP.
With presidential elections tak
ing place this Monday, Tuesday 
and Wednesday, students should 
take responsibility for electing a 
representative who can make 
changes happen for everyone.
Its true that the maj ority of can
didates lack strong campaigning 
tactics, but this year has seen im
proved efforts on the part of Stu
dent Senate to get word out about 
those running for office. Students 
must realize that they have the 
power to demand better publicity 
and campaigning. The best way 
for students to tell candidates that
James Mojonnler/Tartan Art Co-Editor
Critics deserve smoother sailing
Alex Lewln
their platforms are important is 
to show up at the voting polls.
It is also vital for students to 
gather as much information as 
possible about the candidates be
fore making a choice. Even if those 
running dont express radically 
different platforms, they all have 
separate agendas and will repre
sent CMU in their own manners. 
Small differences in their plat
forms are hints at how each can
didate will govern. Therefore, stu
dents should take them into con
sideration before voting.
No matter if ten students or 
three thousand students cast 
ballots, a new Student Body 
President will take office this 
week. It does matter if individual 
students dont vote because the 
SBP is most effective when he or 
she represents as much of the 
student population as possible.
The student body must force 
candidates to take elections seri
ously so they develop and dis
tribute more informative plat
forms. Students must prove that 
they care about who becomes the 
leader of their governing body  
it will only happen when at least 
a majority of students vote.
Imagine: Woodward and Bernstein are 
publishing articles daily which reveal 
new details about the Watergate scan
dal. And one day you open up the Wash
ington Post and theres a letter from 
Richard Nixon saying, Woodward and 
Bernstein are lousy reporters and they 
should be fired. And I am not a crook! 
Obviously, the Post wouldnt give him 
the space or opportunity.
The same kind of journalistic integrity 
must apply to critics. On March 27, the 
Los Angeles Times published a letter 
from Titanic writer-director James 
Cameron responding to a column by 
Times film critic Kenneth Turan. Turan, 
who has vilified the Oscar-sweeping film 
since its release in December, said in his 
column that Titanic is not an example 
of Hollywoods success; its an emblem of 
its failure. In his original review of the 
film  one of the angriest, most bileridden reviews Ive ever read  Turan 
said that Titanic should be shown to film 
students as an example of how not to 
write a screenplay and that Cameron is 
not someone to be trusted anywhere 
near a word processor.
Camerons response to Turans re
peated Titanic bashing was to accuse 
Turan of the worst kind of ego-driven 
elitism. He finishes with a rally cry: 
Forget about Clinton  how about we 
impeach Kenneth Turan?
This kind of attack upon a film critic is 
unprecedented, and there are probably 
two people in the world who can get 
away with it: James Cameron and Steven 
Spielberg. (Actually, Spielberg doesnt 
get any newspapers delivered to his home 
for a month after one of his films is 
released.) But the fact that Cameron is 
one of the most powerful men in Holly
wood, and that he has made, in the 
minds of some, one of the greatest films 
of all time, is no reason to give him the 
power to stomp on the occasional naysayer. If he wants to write a letter to
Turan personally, let him  but giving 
Cameron space in the paper to attack 
the critic is foolish and disrespectful of 
the critics role.
Certainly Turan is extreme in his criti
cism of the film; he called Camerons 
screenplay the worst script ever writ
ten. Come on, Ken. Its bad, but not that 
bad. Turan also writes that Titanic shows 
how desperate the mainstream audi
ence ... has become for anything even 
resembling old-fashioned entertain
ment. [They have been] deadened by 
exposure to nonstop trash. His condeMohd Zekri Ismail/Tartan Art Staff
scension is palpable, even insulting, and 
it pervades his entire commentary.
But Kenneth Turan is completely 
within his bounds as a film critic to write 
whatever he wants about Titanic. Al
though the Los Angeles Times is to be 
commended for standing by its critic, 
allowing Cameron to respond so exten
sively was unprofessional and done, prob
ably, to give Angelinos something to 
chatter and chuckle about. The Times 
has set up a cockfight, letting Cameron 
into the ring not for any artistic or jour
nalistic debate, but because its fun to 
see these guys attack each other.
And, admittedly, it is fun. Cameron 
makes a complete ass of himself. The 
script for Titanic... incorporates universals of human experience and emotion 
that are timeless  and familiar be
cause they reflect our basic emotional 
fabric, he writes. Audiences around 
the world are celebrating their own es
sential humanity by going into a dark 
room and crying together. Get over 
yourself, Jim.
Camerons titanic egotism aside, why 
should he have chosen this critic to re
spond to? Certainly Turan was not alone 
in his heresy. Other critics in thecountry 
must have hated the film as much i 
Turan.
The answer is simple: its a pissing 
contest. For a massive audience. 
Cameron wants to show readers of the 
Times  which includes everyone in the 
film industry  that he is a bigger, 
better man than the critic who would 
dare insult his great creation.
The issue raised by all this is not 
whether Turan is right or wrong about 
the quality of Titanic. Nor is it Camerons 
disgusting self-adulation. Rather, what 
is disturbing is the fact that this debate 
is taking place at all, particularly on s 
large a stage as the Los Angeles Times. 
James Cameron is a filmmaker. If you 
make films, or write novels, or paint, or 
act  if you are any kind of artist and 
your art is shown in public, you will be 
reviewed. Thats the nature of the game. 
Thats the business hes chosen. Why 
should this one prima donna, in this one 
instance, be allowed to respond, to take 
a stab back?
Kenneth Turan writes about what Ti
tanic means for the future of the film 
industry. I worry about the future of 
criticism; will this infamous bitching 
session affect the respect given to critics 
(assuming they get any now)? Will we 
see more instances of this juvenility? 
Will Neil Simon publish a letter to 
Vincent Canby in The New York Times 
whining that Canby didnt understand 
the greatness of his play Rumors and 
that the veteran critic should be fired?
And, most frightening of all, will people 
believe him?
Alex Lewin is a senior creative and 
professional writing major whose play 
received an overwhelmingly negative 
review from the McKeesport Daily News 
in September 1996. Lewin resisted the j 
urge to write an angry letter to the editor.
Writer foresees repercussions of study
Dave Liber
Recently, researchers at 
UCLA have found a possible 
link between genetics and cer
tain criminal behavior. The 
research focused on people who 
had committed some criminal 
act, usually murder, but had 
shown no prior acts of violence 
and were thought of by their 
neighbors as good people. 
These researchers found evi
dence of a deficiency in the 
regions of the brain that con
trol impulsiveness and higher 
moral thought.
They concluded that many 
of these criminals, who had 
been carefully screened to 
eliminate those with traumatic 
backgrounds as possible 
confounding variables, had 
this deficiency.
If these subjects do have a 
genetic predisposition to act
out certain violent behavior, 
what is society  especially 
the criminal justice system  
to do in treating these people?
We could follow modern 
trends and allow these crimi
nals to use their genetic pre
disposition to escape from all 
responsibility for their actions. 
By simply committing men
tally and genetically deficient 
criminals to hospitals where 
they may be able to recover 
and cope with their disabili
ties, we are being fair only to 
those criminals.
Were forgetting that every 
victim of one of these crimi
nals has rights too, and those 
rights dont end at the grave. 
The argument here is between 
a victims rights under the 
law to proper justice and 
an individuals right to not 
suffer punishment for a men
tal defect.
Let us suppose that these 
researchers at UCLA are cor
rect in their findings and there 
is a genetic predisposition for 
certain people to act out vio
lent behavior more than 
others. If we can find a drug 
that would allow these indi
viduals to lead healthy nor
mal lives, then all we must do 
is regulate to make them take 
it. Yet even that suggestion 
faces two problems.
First, in most states it is 
becoming impossible to enforce 
that mentally handicapped in
dividual must receive any 
drug, especially if he or she 
has no criminal record. Sec
ond, we wouldnt know that 
people did suffer from this ge
netic predisposition until they 
had already committed some 
criminal act.
Perhaps society should pre
pare itself for genetic screen
ing of every citizen so we may 
be able to safeguard society 
and individuals from them
selves if they do suffer from
certain mental defects un
known to them. Society 
would be safer if certain in
dividuals were prevented 
from criminal acts and these 
individuals would be pro
tected from themselves. Yet, 
knowing how wonderfully 
governement programs for 
issues such as this always 
work out, I would suggest 
we simply move on to alter
native options.
Let us suppose that, in
stead of genetically screen
ing the population of the 
United States, we simply 
wait for these violent acts to 
occur and then genetically 
screen the assailants to find 
if they have these deficien
cies. If they do, perhaps so
ciety should safeguard itself 
by preventing their genetic 
line from reproducing again. 
In other words, sterilize ev
ery member of the family 
Please see VIOLENCE, page 7

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 19987
Irish agreement ignores root of conflict
Luke Brindle
On April 10, the fruit of months of nego
tiations between the political parties of 
Northern Ireland (N.I.) and the British 
and Irish governments was announced.
Shortly after the announcement of this 
British-Irish agreement, the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette hailed it as a first step in 
ending decades of sectarian [religious] 
warfare. This would be lovely, except for 
the fact that the warfare is not really 
about religion.
Religion is just an extension of political 
views in Northern Irelands society. At its 
core, the conflict is between Unionists  
Protestants who prefer to maintain N.I.s 
union with Great Britain  and Nation
alists  Catholics who favor a unified 
nationwide (all-island) republic.
Religion has been used as a tool of 
division, filling the first part of the colo
nial equation of divide and conquer. 
The British conquerors made religion a 
barrier to Irish unity by economically and 
politically pitting the Protestant side of 
the population against the Catholic. A 
whole series of laws was used to repress 
the majority Catholic population.
The Protestants Ascendant position, 
as it was called, depended on British 
support; the British government won 
Protestant support in return and found 
in the Unionist/Protestant elite quite a
willing host in Ireland. Thus the connec
tion between Protestantism and Union
ism. And thus, religion was used for a 
political end: maintaining Britains con
trol over Ireland.
Northern Irelands very existence is a 
testament to this. After most of Ireland
Republic of Ireland. The Council will al
low cooperation between the whole 
island of Ireland on economic affairs, in
cluding tourism, agriculture, and trans
portation. Its a first step to development 
of a united Ireland.
The Agreement also will help to estabwaged a war of independence, the Brit- lish a bill of rights for N.I. and special 
ish were expelled from the southern 26 mechanisms to bring N.I. into line with 
counties of the island. However, the the European Convention on Human
northern six counties 
contained a Unionist 
majority. In 1920, the 
island was partitioned, 
and N.I. was established 
to ensure a majority of 
pro-British political 
opinion in years to come;
N.I., from its very birth, 
has been a gerryman
dered state.
Does the agreement 
serve to end the root 
cause of the conflict? No; 
it doesnt address this 
British presence on the 
island. The Agreement 
also strengthens the 
connection with Britain, 
by giving Unionists  an artificial maTanya Tarr/Tartan Junior Staff
Rights. The United Na
tions, Amnesty Inter
national, and the Euro
pean Commission on Hu
man Rights have consis
tently denounced the 
governments vicious de
nial of human rights.
The cornerstone of the 
agreement is the North
ern Ireland Assembly 
(N.I.A.). A devolved par
liament similar to 
Scotlands, the N.I.A. will 
comprise 108 members 
and will have some con
trol over local matters. Fortunately, safeguards in the 
N.I.A. will prevent Unionists from monopolizing political power. 
jorityinN.I.  control over the future of However, the N.I.A. will have little authe whole island of Ireland. thority. Instead, as the Agreement notes,
There are some positives to come out of the power of the central Parliament in 
the agreement. The agreement will es- London to make laws for the people of 
tablish a cross-border North/South Min- Northern Ireland would remain unafisterial Council, made up of members of fected; Britain will still rule Norththe Northern Ireland Assembly and the em Ireland.
More troubling, the agreement calls on the 
Republic of Ireland  the southern 26 coun
ties  to abandon its claim to the whole 
island. At least in name, the Dublin govern
ment refuses to recognize the authority of the 
British government over its national terri
tory; if the constitution is amended, the Irish 
government will recognize the legitimacy of a 
state that was carved out of its own territory.
And the Irish governments renunciation 
of its own territory allows for the most trou
bling aspect of the agreement: the Unionist 
veto. Under this, the majority of N.I.  a 
state that was established by a gerrymander 
to give Unionists a majority in six counties of 
Ireland  will decide whether Ireland will 
be divided or united. The agreement gives 
the British Secretary of State  recall the 
authority of the London Parliament  the 
power to call for a vote every seven years on 
the whether N.I. will remain in the UK or 
will become part of a 32-county Ireland.
The people of the island will vote on the 
agreement in May. If ratified, it will hope
fully bring a level of peace and normality to 
the people of Ireland. Certainly, this agree
ment rectifies some current problems in 
Northern Ireland. However, a few Band-Aids 
on a terminally ill society (like Northern 
Ireland in its present form) is just that: a few 
Band-Aids. Until the root of the conflict  
the British governments control over North
ern Ireland  is addressed and resolved, a 
lasting peace will not come to Ireland.
Luke Brindle is an H&SS freshman. He 
welcomes all responsible replies to his column.
Buggy ruling raises questions
___________Susan Caldwell
Thinking, questioning, and act
ing are the most powerful tools 
against injustice. If we think, it is 
hard for us to be fooled. If we 
question authority figures, their 
power wont be able to take ad
vantage of us. If we act to change 
things, we can set a precedent for 
fairness. Fairness and truth are 
ideals only reached when those 
who benefit from an injustice and 
those who suffer from it actively 
engage in seeking the truth.
Such should have been the case 
with the Spirit Womens A Team. 
After running the course in two 
minutes and 40 seconds, which 
placed them first to rival PiKAs 
second, the team was disquali
fied for what was said to be an 
illegitimate transition. Most 
likely, if they would have run in 
the finals, they would have won 
again, and Spirit Womans A 
.would have gotten first place four 
years in a row.
Based on my understanding, 
an organization protested that 
there was an unfair transition 
between Hill 3 and Hill 4. They 
claimed that senior Charisse 
Davis, who is Spirits womens 
push captain and has been push
ing for four years, crossed over 
the second transition line, which 
is an automatic idsqualification. 
During the Sweepstakes meet
ing, the committee of judges 
viewed the videotape, and after 
45 minutes of debate, decided to 
disqualify Spirit. When Spirit 
chairman Jerry Baptiste found 
out, he demanded to see proof, 
the videotape, but was denied
and told he would be allowed to 
see the tape after Carnival.
I was present when a Sweep
stakes representative came and 
spoke with several people at the 
Spirit barbecue, telling everyone 
the basis of the decision. Although 
he admitted the videotape was 
bullshit in his opinion, he and the 
others unanimously decided to dis
qualify Spirit on the basis of the 
videotape. The videotape, accord
ing to the spokesperson, did not 
show, th lines on the ground, so 
they determined the disqualifica
tion based on landmarks in the 
camera. When several people in
sisted how unfair they thought the 
decision was, he shrugged his 
shoulders as if to say, Oh, well.
Granted, the Sweepstakes com
mittee has put an immeasurable 
amount of hard work into buggy 
and has gotten up at ridiculous 
hours in the morning for this la
bor of love. The decision probably 
was not an easy one to make, nor 
was it easy for a representative to 
stand before a crowd of people 
involved in Spirit and explain the 
reasons behind the decision. But 
their decision should be ques
tioned and the evidence should 
be made known.
The committee did not have an 
open debate with the pushers and 
the witnesses involved. They did 
not let anyone else view the tape. 
Because they did not do these 
things, we should question whether 
or not every member that voted for 
disqualification knew and believed 
the transition to be illegitimate.
We trust the'Sweepstakes Com
mittee to be fair; the sanctity of 
Buggy depends on that. We know 
that if they are not fair, then 
Sweepstakes, a lively CMU tradi
tion, is pointless and worthless. If 
Spirit Womens A was cheated, 
then all of the competitors were 
cheated. Even if Spirit Womens A 
cheated, they at least deserve a 
right to defend themselves before 
being disqualified  doesnt this 
coincide with the American ideal? 
In American courts, people arent 
convicted without at least know
ing the charges against them.
Furthermore, Spirit should not 
be the only team asking questions. 
B ecause an insult to j ustice in one 
arena is an insult to justice every
where, we should all be concerned 
about the fairness of Buggy races. 
The Sweepstakes committee, 
through their efforts, has proven 
their diligence, but their efforts 
towards fairness, like anyone 
elses, should be questioned. No 
one is beyond reproach. Imagine a 
country not even questioning 
President Clintons authority. Or 
one in which people apathetically 
turned their heads while the po
lice kept brutalizing citizens?
As for the future, I do believe 
that everyone involved in Sweep
stakes wants to bury the unsaid 
resentment and have fair races. 
But this involves us thinking about 
the situation at hand, questioning 
the authorities in power, and act
ing accordingly, instead of shrug
ging our shoulders. If we continue 
to be apathetic about situations 
like these, whos to say that they 
will not happen again next year? 
We are supposed to learn from our 
mistakes  andnolessonisleamed 
if there is no unbiased, self-con
scious evaluation of the past.
Susan Caldwell is a junior art 
major. She welcomes all respon
sible replies to her column.
Society must protect crime victims rights
VIOLENCE, from page 6
that would perhaps have that 
genetic deficiency. Yes, this 
does sound quite crazy.
Yet the common argument 
heard in the criminal justice 
courts is that individuals 
like these do not have control 
over their actions and cannot 
prevent themselves from 
committing these crimes. If 
they are unable to control 
themselves, it is the job of 
the government to protect soci
ety from them.
mean possible life in prison, 
while for the genetically vio
lent, the occasional murder 
would mean a trial and a few 
months rest in Bellevue. It 
would take five or six murders 
by those with the deficiency to 
equal one murder by those con
sidered normal.
Perhaps the U.S. criminal jus
tice system would be better 
helped by the creation of a con
version chart stating how many 
violent acts by the genetically 
predispositioned it would take to
If [violent criminals] are unable to 
control themselves, it is the job of 
the government to protect society 
from them. 
Yes, I certainly do mean to 
attack the idea of the not guilty 
by reason of mental defect plea 
heard in our courts today. As 
science advances further into 
the field of genetics, we shall 
have to hear more of this rheto
ric. The only true solution to 
addressing this problem is by 
not addressing the problem. I 
mean that by not allowing in
dividuals to plead not guilty 
by reason of mental defect, we 
protect victims rights and so
ciety as a whole.
The only alternative is for 
multiple sets of laws stating 
that for the genetically or psy
chologically normal person 
the occasional murder would
equal one violent act by a nor
mal person  if such a normal 
person even does exist.
The solution to all of this is 
simply a change in the status 
quo to eliminate special judi
cial allotments such as tempo
rary insanity. The important 
issue for society to consider here 
is not whether the ongoing re
search into genetics should af
fect the judicial system but in
stead how we should finally 
protect and revere, a victims 
rights in our society.
Dave Liber is a freshman 
majoring in economics. He wel
comes all responsible replies to 
his column.
Carnival has come and gone 
and with it funnel cakes, 
Ziploc bags of goldfish, and 
nasty hangovers. But that 
doesnt mean that you cant 
still, hold onto your fuzzy 
memories. We asked: What 
was your favorite thing 
about Carnival?
Compiled by 
Becca Frlbush & Anna Fortin
Hanging out with the ak 
from PiKA.
Ryan Prichard 
Junior
Information Systems
Anna Fortin/Tartan Photo Staff 
i probably cant print that. I thought they had really good The Gravitron. 
booths this year.
Krissy Gaken 
Freshman 
History & Policy
Leslie Armagost 
Junior
Civil Engineering
Alex Gindin 
Sophomore 
Mt. Lebanon H.S.
THE TARTAN
Camegle Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.... Becky A. Cowser
Managing Editor..............Ena Khan
Business Manager... Norman Mok
News Editor................Ellen Beldner
Forum Editor......Rebecca Fribush
Sports Co-Editors......Brian Smith,
Nathan Steinwald
Features Editor..........Kevin Babbitt
Diversions Editor............Anne Hay
Calendar Editor.....Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Editor.............Matt
Tragesser
Dossier Literary Editor__Marshall
Warfield
Art Co-Editors..............Mark Adato,
Janies Mojonnier
Photo Editor...........Anthony Chao
Production Manager..William Holtz
Advertising Manager.....Kevin Fine
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules 
Copy Manager..Helena Mcgahagan 
Asst. News Editor.. Ryan Schilling
Asst. Forum Editor..........Vy Ty Mai
Asst. Dossier Design Editor.....LeeAnne Stossell
Asst. Production Manager.....Blake
Engel
Darkroom Mgr......................Usette
Miller-Dlxon 
Personnel Manager.. Seth Mandel
Contributing Editors 
Daniel Arp, Paul Boothe, Chris 
Cannon, Ryan Donovan, Jennifer 
Garcia de Osuna, Stephen Hsu, 
Kenneth Kraemer, 1-Ping LI, Amit 
Sheth, Sharmila Venkatasubban
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jessica Strelltz
Staffwriters 
Abhay Agrawal, Bharat Bhat, Steve 
Bidwa, Luke Brindle, Susan Caldwell, 
Justin Clna, Dave Elman, Sheila 
Flanagan, Andrew Francis, Charles 
Fryman, Rhonda Gillespie, Michelle 
Han, Lorelei Laird, Wladimlr 
Labelkovsky, Emily Landes, Alex 
Lewin, David Liber, Anand Marathe, 
Greg Marcks, Maureen 
McGranaghan, Susan Murray, Gre
gory Nofi, Peter Patterson, Rob 
Punkunus, Jaya Saxena, PalakShah, 
Reena Singhal, Jeff Thibert, Susan 
Watson, Bradley Zimmerman
Art
Neil Babra, Matthew Blum, Zekrl 
Ismail, Alex Smith, Mary Tremonte
Comics 
Dave Wlngrove, Mike Yeh
Photo
Hillary Carey, Anna Fortin, Stacey 
Tetzlaff, Michelle Ungerer
Darkroom 
Ava Bai, Maria Gimenez, Daniel 
Klein, William Long, Jeany Oh, David 
Oleszkievwlcz, Michelle Ungerer, 
Diana Rutherford, Alev Toker, Erica 
Yamada, Michelle Zimmer
Production 
Derek Greentree, Jennie Keith, 
Tammy Manski, Andrea Okerholm, 
Michael Pudup, Diana Rutherford, 
Rlmas Svarcas
Copy
Herine Coetzee, Christopher 
Dornfeld, David Elman, Dianne 
Gigler, Lorelei Laird, Matthew 
McHenry, Jennifer Terry, Joanne 
Wei
Business 
Michael Y. Kan, Nikhil Shah, Toshi 
Takano
Junior Staff 
Amy Berger, Dash Boyer-Olson, 
Michelle Chao, Joseph Carrier, Eliza
beth Currid, Heather Dietrich, Heather 
Denyer, Jonathan Fantazier, Dean 
Ho, Jeremy Lewit, Joshua Merry, 
Bhumika Muchhala, Afuma Porter, 
Paulette Poullet, Rob Punkunus, 
Benjamin Roberts, Lisa Rump, Laura 
Stringer, Yishan Wang, Erica Vogel
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost 
to members of the University community. 
It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available 
for the semester or academic year. The 
editorials appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section are the official opinion 
of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan reserves 
the right to reject or condense any column 
or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor 
are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended 
for publication must be signed and include 
the writer's address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 350 words. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter. Copyright 1998 by The 
Tartan. The Tartaneditorial board reserves 
the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314 Phone: 412/ 
268-2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/ 
Box 17/Carnegie Mellon University/ 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities 
Fee. All rights reserved. Library 
of Congress ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of the Associated 
Press.

---------------------------------------------------

by Scott Adams
LITTLE ROCK, APKANSfiS - TEN 
PAYS AGO, THE BUSTLING CEN
TER OF A M5P/A CIRCUS, TODAY A HOUOiOSP- OUT TOWN M/TH 700EMPTY HOTEL ROWS!
\ VLSI
\i/
I JUST GAVE MY TWO 
WEEK NOTICE.
EVERYONE SEEttS TO 
BE TAKING THIS r~ 
RATHER WELL.
IWPNT W OUCH/ 1
HAvevmm / InsideLvHfroNMy I ROAPPERK\
COUNT KE 
IN FOR THE 
GOODBYE LUNCH
HE Ce-CAMPING MEPIA IN
Taart rnAs iNte uesmnem.
gyeFoLreyundm^^eLTe
ha t.hEROCK ,CACO IPIN, 
tI, N SOfYE IGhRY gdmmLedn 
I,HBhYC.UBE I,H OKSEM 
HHhHHN,5 I,H///I,H///
WE HAD TO BE NICE TO 
Hitt BECAUSE WE 
Ti NEEDED HIS 
COOPERATION.
HE SHOULD f NEXT TIIAE, 
CHECK THE 11 WILL NOT 
EXPIRATION (GIVE TWO ' 
DATE ON HIS 1 WEEKS' T 
COEOGNE/ (NOTICE.<
' ANP PISTIN~ Y srmi\ GUISH/NG I LAP, > 
CHARACWRtSJlCSh STEAOYf-!
I7A GLAD HE QUIT.
HE COAS SUCH AN 
O&NOXIOUSj USELESS 
CO-OJORKER.
SOWHATPOESTHE\ 
JUPG5& a=aS!ON MEAN TO YOU, ARN?
uDLWHAT?\
AS FAR BACK AS JOURNAL
ISM SCHOOL, I KNEW THAT 
ONE PAY IP COVER THEFAULA 
JONESTRTAL. SO IJORKEP 
HARP, STUPfEP, LT/SPANP 
&PEATHEP PAULA /
ICUAM7W TO BREADY 
REAPYTO REP0PT70THE 
NATION ABOUT THB SEARCH 
TONP THE- TRUTH ABOUT 
WHETHER THE PRES/PENT 
OF THE UNtTEP STA TES 
PROPPEPHIS 
PANTS'
SALLY KOVNER, 
ONE OF THE COUNT
LESS YOUNGTAULA I 
REPORTERSU)HOSE\ 
LIVES HAVE BE5N 
TURNEP UPS I PE / 
DOWN... j-J
6 87-8 
348 1IT1 
Si THERE.
m COLLECTING FOR 
/D'S FARELOELL GIFT.
ED , YOU TREATED 
E LIKE DIRT. I 
FIND VOU GUILTY 
AND I FINE. YOU 
. FIVE DOLLARS.
SO YOU HAP A 
PREAM.WASTHAT  
SO WRONG?.
COfAE BACK 
IF YOU GET 
/A ORE.
MARK.WHAT f UJSLL, 
YOUR BIGGEST f NOTHAVPISAFPOINTMENTX INGA 
ABOUT JUPGe fi TRIAL, OB- WR/SHTRUUNG?\ VIOUSLY...
WITHOUT A TRIAL. J'LLNO 
LONG5R BE ABLE 70 QUOTE 
COARSE, VULGAR LUORP5 
ANP EXPRESSIONS ON , NATIONAL TELEVISIONf
r WELL, I 1 
CANT SAY 1
THEM NOW/ 
THEY'RE NOT 
NEWSWORM'X
YOU
GOT
HIS
PANTS?
HEH HEH. ED IS 
BARELY OUT THE DOOR 
AND I GOT HIS OLD 
COMPUTER. I
ALICE IS GOING TO 
BE ttlFFED THAT 
SHE'S TOO LATE FOR 
THE G000 STUFF.
IT WASN'T 
EASY. HE'D 
ALREADY ttADE 
IT TO THE 6US.
MARK POTEMKIN, 
VETERAN NETWORK 
PAULA-U/ATCHER, CAUGHT 
UVE, CRYING IN HIS/ BEER. 
THE SCAVENGING 
WAS GOOD TODAY.
lN, TUE PRE&PENTS V1CIOW 
III THE JONES CASE MUST 
HAVE BEEN aung A BOHJ 
TO CNNS 70-MAN TRIAL TEAM!
IVE'VE NOW GOT MUCH MOPE 
DEPTH IN OUR MONICA BUREAU 
A5WEU, AS ADPEP STRENGTH IN 
OUR UJIUEYANP BRAON STAKEOWS. PUIS, WE CAN NOW F I Ell? 
A PAPIP-RESPONSE CREW.
ACTUALLY, NO, ROLANPTT G A VE US AN OPPORTUNITY TO 
REP/STWBUTE OUR TAIENTANP 
SeEFUPOUROTHSRSiyWAL 
UNITS...
,1 FOUGHT TO GET YOUR 
PROTECT CLASSIFIED AS 
OUR TOP PRIORITY.
DID YOU GET ttY 
E-ttAIL SAYING 
THE PROTECT ISN'T 
FEASIBLE?
I'LL WAIT UNTIL ) 
TOMORROW TO ^ 
TELL Hitt HE'S * 
CHAIRttAN OF THE 
"QUALITY FESTIVAL.
THAT 
HAS OUR
ROLAND.
...SEVERAL QUESTIONS HANS 
HEAVY TN THE AIR. LIKE, WHAT 
KT/U. WE PO WTTH OURSELVES? 
WHERE PO WE GO FROM HERE?
SURB, SOME OF US WILL 
BEMOVEP TO OTHER SCANPAILS, BUT MOSTWTLEHAVE 
TO SCRAMBLE TO FIN PA 
NEW STORYANY STORY.'
AS THE LAST OF 700 
MEPIA SCANPALISTAS 
PULL- OUTOF UTTIE ROCK.
AS YOU GET TO KNOW 
KZ, I'LL LOOK DUfAER 
AND OUfABER. f------------
alice, m THE MECO 
GUY. I LOOK SMARTER 
THAN THE PEOPLE COHO 
ALREADY GJORK HERE.
JOIN ME TOMORROW] 
FOR FART SEVEN OF \ 
"MEPIA IN CRISIS. )
THAT
GJA.5
FAvST.
/T Wlt-i*/ BULoarti! IT hjE Tiew.i jvSjCOpIt) i/iLoot
SVrrrefeK
one issue left to go 
air work and no play make! 
sheep a dull boy
maaa
in.because everybody loves a gouda
see your bereft ant 
piquant canteloupe, mother 
my estate is blue
powdery eyeball 
a reward, therefore, pickle 
extreme banana
3Ms ^o-dtoj

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  20 April 19989
"Aj5 available 
ujoaien"^
:+ up. (j4fa g> fo dass. fada^ wfll be wor-Wi if. ill learn
n&u -|o<$atj.  1 'I tnee4somebody and new,
TTUJ -W'^'n/s U)of4h. ' H Tn Siv,4-fy of Ivy
Soul +he un<TaVec/ nscence of my /--------
raoe...
hey V$ f, y'" ex-srl-frenA 
came up fa rt ani ^ 
-ttia-V iiouYe a reat Wg /
E veryone ko HiCiHt-ANDE^!
The nark's iWajL
ME YoU CONCERNED 
M ML toUT 
CmoK 4EPMJMI4T 
WoVEMENT? jit
You are 
what you 
consume 
in the 
news...
YOU CCW.BE, 
oF CoU84E, 
TUOT CWm 
ti k CoUNTBY 
WTO NoT N 
4PICE 
OWL...
YE4, MY Kite 
Pleas FU 
LBRtUTED!
WUY TUE I4RLITC4 
ML Y Lo6T FKVoRIT LOOK4 FINE 
To ME, BUT 
I NEED To 
RUN IT PtT 
LEOL PIE4T
MillerThe Waihinsion Post Wrlicro CiE-mull: wllcyCii.wilcycoonu.
NEURol6 t K 
NEGOTIATING 
TooL...
I JU4T LoVE 
TUE TNRT 
oF k NEW 
m KT TUE 
OFFICE!
UNDER 
(AY TUERM>15T'6 
CoUNiEL To GET 
IN ToUCU WITH 
MY INNER CHILD, 
I WILL NoW 
PROCEED WITU K 
UIY-flT To
get wy my...

---------------------------------------------------

If you want to improve campus life, dont 
whine about it! Take action. Vote for a Stu
dent Body President and Student Senators 
who are willing to make concrete changes for 
the better at CMU.
Student Government Elections 
Monday, April 20 - Wednesday, April 22 
10:00 am - 5:00 pm in front of Doherty Hall 
Rain Location: Wean Commons in the UC
Did you know that Student Government 
allocates all of your activities fee money? 
That they act as a liason between you and 
the administration? That they have the 
power to make a difference?
Dont give this power to just anybody - 
your vote is important.
President and Vice President Candidates:
Jamie Chang and John Meier 
Ira Fay and Carrrice Delo 
Sarah Gross and Will Torasson 
Amy Ng and Elayne Foster
Student Senator Candidates:
Carnegie Institute of Technology:
Charles Anthe
Michael Donahue
Ghris Guerra
Eric Koch
John Meier
Amy Ng
Humanities and Social Sciences:
Jake Bordens
Lorelei Laird
Sachal Lakhavani
David Liu
Joshua Merry
Robert Moskowitz
School of Industrial Administration: Mellon College of Science: 
Jordan Chan-Mendez Michael Hutsko
Elayne Foster Deval Joshi
Saeed Kalafchi Eric Silverman
Lillian Lee 
Regan You
College of Fine Arts: 
Chad Luberger
School of Computer Science: 
Adam Phelps
Your Vote 
ill Go On

---------------------------------------------------

yji\iu
Volume 92, Issue 23The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania20 April 1998 |
Tartan track team prevails at home invitational
By NATHAN STEINWALD
iTartan Sports Co-Editor
| Carnegie Mellons track team cleared 
another hurdle last Wednesday on their 
way to the UAA championships in At
lanta. The Tartans held their second 
invitational of the outdoor season, this 
time involving only a few local track 
teams in what amounted to a tune-up.
The track team showed extremely well, 
placing first in 15 out of 35 events and 
having at least one person in the top 
three in a score of other events. The meet 
provided an opportunity for success but it 
also served the more serious purpose of 
giving the Tartans a chance to prepare 
for the end of the season when they will 
compete against the best of the UAA, and 
a few will move on to national competi
tion. A number of track team members 
were able to improve upon their times 
from the CMU meet held two weeks ago.
Most improved was junior Marga
ret Powers, whose second place finish 
in the womens 800 meter race was 
five seconds faster than the time she 
put in only a few weeks ago at the last 
CMU invitational. In that same race 
last Wednesday, sophomore Amy 
Antoci finished third 
and junior Maureen 
McGran-aghan fin
ished in fourth place.
The mens 800 meter 
race also had an im
proved time for 
theTartan squad. 
Sophomore Brian 
Knudsen finished in 
first place with a time 
of 1:57.7, more than 
two seconds faster 
than one of his previ
ous times: Sophomore 
Mark Plesko and se
nior Maliek Washing
ton finished the race 
second and third be
hind Knudsen.
A third team mem
ber who posted an im
proved time was sopho
more Denise Morales. 
Morales bettered her 
previous time by nearly
; Brian Smith/Tartan Sports Co-Editor two seconds and placed
A CMU high jumper launches his body over the high bar last Wednesday in Gesling Staduim. second in the womens
400 meter hurdles race.
In the 5,000 meter races 
junior Joshua Donner fin
ished first with Brian 
Ingram close behind him in 
second place. Both runners 
ran the 10,000 meter race 
at the first CMU invita
tional, and will probably run 
in that event in Atlanta.
Carnegie Mellon per
formed particularly well 
in the field events. Senior 
Jessica Connolly tied for 
first place in the long jump 
with a leap of 4.95 meters.
Connolly then went on to 
take first place in the 
triple jump with a dis
tance of 10.4 meters.
In the high jump, first 
year student Kelly Zook 
cleared a height of five 
feet, and attempted to 
break the school record of 
five feet, two inches, but 
narrowly missed on her 
attempts. On the mens 
side Todd Kozuki hurled 
himself an even six feet in 
the air to place third in 
the meet for CMU.
Competing at the same time as all of 
the jumpers and leapers were the 
throwers. The whole meet featured solid 
performances from the Tartans in the 
throwing events. Freshman Chad 
Rummel finished first in the mens disSfiK
Nathan Steinwald/Tartan Sports Co-Edito; 
Senior Jessica Connolly tied for first last Wednesday. ! 
Here she looks towards the sands of the long jump pit.
cus and the hammer throw. Junior Alic 
Chong was also able to finish first fotf 
the women in the hammer throw. ;!
The team continues to prepare fof 
their championships in Atlanta. On Sat
urday, they competed at University of 
Pittsburgh in one of their final meets.
Bulls domination ends with 
one last championship run
Full Court Press
by Peter Patterson
l
! This year, as in the recent 
past, the NBA playoffs provide 
about as much suspense as the 
movie Titanic. Just like you 
iknew the boat was going to sink 
in the movie, you know who is 
going to take the championship. 
As long as there is the man 
named Michael playing for the 
Bulls, they own the playoffs. 
However, this doesnt mean that 
.the tournament isnt worth
unlikely to return next season. 
Everything points to this being 
one last hurrah for the Bulls dy
nasty,, and unless Jerry Krause 
has an attack of sanity, this will 
be the last chance for hoop fans to 
watch Michael Jordan play.
The battle for the right to play 
the Bulls for the Eastern Confer
ence championship should be very 
spirited. The key series will be 
the second round when the Mi
ami Heat and the Indiana Pacers 
meet. This will be a great series, 
as it provides several interesting 
player matchups. Each team pos
sesses one of the best clutch play
ers in the NBA in Tim Hardaway 
and Reggie Miller. When the 
game goes down to the wire, look 
for one of these two players to 
step up and hit a big shot. Both 
squads also have very physical
watching, as there are several 
interesting subplots.
! The first one involves the team 
from Chicago. This could possiibly be their final run at a championship, as they go for their seciond three-peat in the nineties. 
'The hardheaded owners of the 
team have been saying all year 
that coach Phil Jackson wont re
turn next year.
j Apparently six championships 
in eight years isnt up to their 
standards. Michael Jordan has 
made it known that he will not 
return if Phil Jackson isnt the 
[coach, and Scottie Pippen, a free 
agent at the end of the season, is
Mark Adato/Tartan Art Co-Editor 
front courts. Alonzo Mourning 
and P.J. Brown will be banging 
with the Davises, Antonio and 
Dale, in a battle for rebounds.
Finally, a key to the series will 
be the matchup of two old foes. 
Ex-Celtic Larry Bird and exLaker coach Pat Riley revisit their 
battles of the eighties, although 
this year finds them both on the 
sidelines, with Bird as the rookie 
coach of the Pacers and Riley on 
the Miami side. Look for the Heat 
to win in seven. Their reward? 
The Bulls will be waiting in the 
Conference finals.
The picture in the Westem Con
ference is much more muddled,
as five teams enter the playoffs 
with realistic conference cham
pionship hopes. The Jazz, Sonics, 
Lakers, Spurs, and Suns all en
ter the playoffs with at least 55 
wins. The Spurs and Suns meet 
in the first round. Look for the 
Spurs to win in four games, as 
their superior size, with Tim 
Duncan and David Robinson, will 
be too much for the Suns.
That leaves four teams to battle 
it out for a championship berth. 
The Lakers are the most talented 
team in the NBA. Their starting 
lineup of Nick Van Exel, Eddie 
Jones, Shaquille ONeal, Rick 
Fox, and Elden Campbell is a 
veritable collection of all-stars, 
and they have Robert Horry, Kobe 
Bryant, and Derek Fischer com
ing off the bench.
However, this team has never 
been able to match their athletic 
ability with mental toughness. 
They are still a year away. The 
Spurs have the best 4-5 combo in 
the league in Duncan and 
Robinson. However, their guard 
play doesnt stack up with the 
rest of their competitors. Look for 
Duncan to wear down as he ap
proaches 100 games played.
The Jazz had their chance last 
year, and it now appears Stock
ton and Malone will retire with
out a championship  for the 
Seattle Supersonics will defeat 
them for the conference champi
onship. The key to their season 
was the trade of Shawn Kemp for 
Vin Baker, as Kemp caused prob
lems for the team chemistry. 
Baker has been great on and off 
the court, and with Gary Payton 
now the undisputed leader of the 
team, they have been playing bet
ter than ever.
The Sonics have a history of hav
ing strong regular seasons and then 
flaming out in the playoffs, but this 
years team is much less distracted 
and closer than those in the past.
So look for the Sonics to give 
the Bulls a run for their money in 
the finals before losing in six. 
And pray for Jerry Krause to bring 
back Phil Jackson for one more 
season so we can have another 
year of watching the best basket
ball player in history, even if it 
means more predictable playoffs.
Peter Patterson is a first-year 
student in the Universtiy Choice 
Program. He welcomes all respon
sible and irresponsible dispute 
with his predictions.
Sports shorts
Tennis squad 
finishes year
After a grueling spring break 
training session, the mens and 
womens tennis teams have 
been concentrating on one thing 
 the UAA championships. The 
championships, which will be 
held from April 24-26 at Wash
ington University'in St. Louis, 
will mark the greatest chal
lenge for the team as they at
tempt to top last seasons teamrecord third-place finish. We 
think we have a pretty fair shot 
at doing that, said senior 
Navroze Marshall.
The tennis team is not ex
pecting an easy go of it, as 
they have to fight Emory Uni
versity  ranked in the. top 
ten in the country  as well 
as rivals Washington Univer
sity and Brandeis University. 
The nine-man mens team is 
composed of six freshmen, one 
sophomore and. two seniors. 
Were a really young, inexpe
rienced team, but we have a 
lot of heart, said Marshall. 
Everyone has good attitudes 
... and we really want to win. 
However, Marshall said that 
the teams inexperience would 
likel}7 hurt them somewhat.
Brian Smith/Tartan Sports Co-Editor 
The lacrosse team ended its short season with a 2-2 record.
The team has done well con
sidering the setbacks that weve 
had, said j cmior Julie Balch. The 
team has suffered a few. injuries, 
and lost several players from last 
seasons squad. Everyone has 
been playing out of position, but 
has done extremely well. I think 
we have a good shot at the UAAs 
if everyone continues to play like 
they have been.
Lacrosse club 
ends season
Coming off of a 10-8 victory 
against cross-town rival 
Duquesne Univerity on March 
19, the Carnegie Mellon Lacrosse 
Team concluded their season on 
April 5 with a 8-7 loss to Slippery 
Rock University.
The game began 
out competitive, as 
CMU jumped out 
to an early 2-0 
lead. But they were 
unable to hold this, 
and Slippery Rock 
responded with 
five unanswered 
goals, taking a 5-2 
lead into halflime.
The momentum 
seemed to shift in 
the beginning of 
the second half, as 
senior Jay Miolla 
scored on a pointblank shot, mak
ing the score 5-3. 
Not to be outdone, 
Slippery Rock 
countered with 
three more, and 
the Tartans found 
themselves with 
an . 8-3 deficit 
as the fourth quarThe tennis team will play in the UAAs April 25. ter began.
CMU was not ready to lay 
down and die, however. They 
fought back with four goals ; 
in the final period, aided by 
senior goalie Gabriel j 
Colwell- Lafleurs 14 saves. ! 
It was the best comeback 
Ive ever seen from a Cam- j 
egie Mellon lacrosse team, 
said head coach Gerald 
Costanzo. The rally fell ; 
short, however, and the team 
found themselves one goal 
short as time expired.
. Although Costanzo hoped to ! 
fit additional games into the 
season, the Slippery Rock 
game served as the teams sea
son finale and the Tartans fin- j 
ished the year 2-2.
Tartans train 
for first race ;;
Since February, the Carn- ; 
egie Mellon Crew Team has J 
been training hard in anticipa
tion of its first outdoor race. 
Last Sunday, April 19, the team I 
opened its outdoor season at ' 
the Capitol Classic in Wash- i 
ington, D.C..
The team has been spending > 
the last two months running, j 
swimming and using the row- ; 
ing machines. Over the win
ter, the team really developed 
a strong sense of focus and de- ! 
termination, said Crew Team 
Publicity Chair and sophomore 
Erin Tocknell.
The training, which often in- ' 
volved numerous trips up and 
down the 33 flights of stairs at . 
the Cathedral of Learning, was 
highlighted by The Pittsburgh 
Indoor Rowing Championships 
on February 8. Each person 
rowed the equivalent of a 2,000 
Please see SHORTS, page 12

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 1998
classified
April 20,1998
Administration
Director Mike Mastroianni X8-2214 
Asst. Director  Mike Grzywinski X8-2214 
Secretary  Amy Kiryk x8-2053 
President  Jeff Jesensky X2-2830 
; Womens President  Katie Gallagher X2-3363
Important Dates
Wednesday April 22IM Swim Meet at UC Pool 4:30 pm 
Thursday April 23IM Fencing Tournament in Fencing Room of 
Skibo Gym 6:30 pm
Tuesday April 28IM Board Meeting 11:15 am in Gym Confer
ence Room
Tuesday April 28 IM Track Meet at Gesling Stadium 6:30 pm 
Saturday May 2IM Ultimate Frisbee and Kickbaii Tournaments
Sports in Season
Floor Hockey The championships of all four leagues will be 
held on Monday and Tuesday evening.
SoftballThe season ends Thursday and playoffs will be posted 
Friday. Contact the IM Office at X8-2214 after 1 pm for times. 
Games will begin on Sunday April 26.
Indoor SoccerThe regular season ends on Sunday. Playoffs 
begin Monday, April 27. The playoffs will be posted by 10 am 
Monday.
Euchre and Squash  Regular season ends this week. Contact 
the office for playoff times.
Call Pool and Table Tennis  Please play games as scheduled 
and report results to the IM Office. Results not reported will be 
considered double forfeits.
Weightlifting Contact Keith Gorse, Athletic Trainer (x8-2222), 
for individual times for weightlifting competition.
Sports Upcoming
Track Meet The IM Track Meet will be held Tuesday April 28 
starting at 6:30 pm. Contact the IM Ofice or check last weeks 
Tartan for a list of events.
Swim Meet The IM Swim Meet will be held this Wednesday in 
the UC Pool. Events start at 4:30 pm. Contact the IM Office or 
check last week's Tartan for a list of events.
Fencing  The IM Fencing Tournament will be held this Thursday at 
the Fencing Room in Skibo Gym at 6:30pm. Signs will be posted to 
direct you.
Ultimate Frisbee and Co-Rec Kickbaii Brackets are available at 
the IM Office. Both events will be held on Saturday, May 2.
Other News
IM Board decides to discontinue Wrestling as an IM sport.
IM Office will hold Flag Football Tournament In Fall.
IM Board votes to have Badminton be a season instead of a 
tournament.
IM Board votes to lower attendance requirements to one half of 
meetings to be eligible to vote.
Close races mark NHL finish
On Net
by Jessica Strelitz
I woke up one morning this week, and 
the playoffs were here. Either this school 
year has been the fastest one ever, or Ive 
been busy living in the cluster and drink
ing too much tequila again.
If any hockey fans have been sober 
enough to watch their favorite teams 
move towards the close contests of May, 
they know that it has been an exciting 
race to the finish. During the last two 
weeks, there were four teams on each 
coast that were very close while jock
eying for those last four spots on the 
eight-team playoff ladder. When there 
are only two teams in the NHL that are 
really good, and in the last few weeks 
all of the top teams have been biting it 
against really bad teams like both
Florida clubs and New York teams, 
one has to wonder if there wont be 
some major upsets in this years 
Stanley Cup Playoffs.
No big surprise, the Stars cruised to the 
Presidents Trophy this year with a win 
Saturdaj' night over Chicago. With 109 
points, they ended up one win ahead of the 
New Jersey Devils, who won the regular 
season Eastern Conference. The thingthat 
makes most sportswriters think that the 
Stars have a great chance of making it 
isnt just the teams consistency, but is the 
fact that they made it through without 
their captain and star-scorer, Mike 
Modano, who just returned to the lineup 
last night. The Devils have also shown 
that they can play, with a lot of support 
from their defense and goaltending. 
Brodeur started 70 games with no sweat 
and backup-tender Mike Dunham barely 
got to touch the ice this year. But hes 
probably not complaining about riding 
the pines to a possible Stanley Cup.
The . West was the best this year. 
Edmonton, Los Angeles, and St. Louis, 
after laboring for the past few years, 
came on strong and made the big boys 
like Detroit and Colorado fight for their 
suppers. In fact, I dont think that I
saw the Avalanche win one game all 
year. Obviously they did  coming in; 
second in the Conference  but it 
seemed like each time that I watched, 
them on television, Joey Sakic was out; 
and Roy was throwing a temper tan-! 
trum. One major upset pick is that the 
Oilers take them. Itd be great to see 
the mighty Avs fall by the wayside to 
one of the last Canadian teams left in 
the NHL. Dallas will clean up the 
barely-there Sharks and Phoenix isnt 
deep enough to get past Detroit. But 
the Blues have that Keenan magic and 
tenacity, and this may be the last time 
in a while that they have the big guys 
to get there, especially since contract 
negotiations with Brett Hull and Al, 
Macinnis have broken off. I see them; 
getting past the Kings, but I also see 
the Kings continuing to re-build and 
comeing on even stronger next year.
In the East, Ottawa may take one 
game from the Devils, but the redhorns wont struggle until they start 
feeling the heat of the finals licking 
their hooves  they have the experi
ence and the depth to get there with 
no problem. Pittsburgh is too flighty.; 
The Pens are better than Montreal, 
the team they will meet in 
the first round, but not 
strong enough to slug to-i 
wards the end game. If all 
stays as planned, I still sed 
the Flyers taking Hasek to 
seven games and rolling 
past Buffalo. The most awe
some part of first round ac
tion will be  if Washing-, 
ton loses to Carolina, and 
the Bruins beat Philly in 
the final contests of the; 
regular season  when th 
Bruins get home ice versus 
the Caps. Boston is stilj 
surging  even after fin 
ishing dead-last last sea
son  and the Caps, with 
90 points, only got the firsl; 
round advantage because o 
a recent Bruins slump. 
These two teams know each 
other well; they should con
sidering the huge player 
swap late last year  mem: 
bers of which now consti
tute the largest offensive! 
pieces of both clubs. I call 
the Bs in six, but it all de-, 
pends on the outcomes of 
Sundays matchups.
So there is my framework] 
Play with it. But dont go setn 
ting your pools by my predic
tions; I have been known to be 
wrong in the past.
Jessica Strelitz is a senior 
professional writing major, 
who still cant believe that she 
ate six goldfish on the first,
Alex Smith/Tartan Junior Staff night of Carnival.
fOR SALE
Real Estate for sale: Large one 
bedroom apartment. Best Oakland 
location on North Dirthridge. 24 hour 
security. Parking. Elevator, w/w 
carpeting. Value priced $49,500 
furnished/ $47,500 unfurnished. 724- 
837-7977.
Seized Cars from $175. Porsches, 
Cadillacs, Chevys, BMW"s, Corvettes. 
Also Jeeps, 4WD's. Your Area. Toll Free
1 -800-218-9000 Ext. 7862 for current 
listings.
High end audio equipment Thiel CS
2 2 speakers $1400, Martin Logan 
Aerius I speakers $1450 (new in box), 
Theta Pro Basic $600, Theta Data Basic 
$650, Plus others. 412-521-6490.
ROUSING
The Apartment Network- Studio 1, 2,
3 bedroom. North Oakland,
Shadyside, Squirrel Hill. 441-1400.
Oakland North Craig Street. 
Furnished and unfurnished efficiency 
and one bedroom. Spring and Fall 
vacancy. $475 and up, heat and water 
included. Graduate or mature student. 
Newly remodeled. 682-1194 and 731 - 
0450
'98 graduates looking for roommate,
3 bedroom new town house. South 
Hills. Fully.furnished. $400 + utilities 
873-1668; leave message.
5th Avenue apartment for rent across 
from Children's Hospital. 4 Bedroom 
$1,100 + Utilities, 2 Bedroom $550 + 
Utilities, Call 362-7599
Help Wanted Men/Women earn S375 
weekly processing/ assembling Medical 
I.D. cards at home. Immediate openings, 
your local area. Experience unnecessary, 
will train. Call Medicard 1-541-386-5290 
Ext. 118M
Be a business success before you 
graduate. Avon needs savvy sales rep. 
Call Gloria 609-871-0542.
Shady side Management Company 
needs full-time seasonal workers. Must be 
at least 18 years old. Roofer's help, 
Exterior painter, Exterior pointing, Grass 
cutter No experience necessary. College 
students OK. From $6/hour + depending 
on experience and willingness to work on 
high ladder or swing.
Office Summer Work Shadyside 
Management Company needs full-time 
summer help to take applications, answer 
telephones, and do general office work. 
Perfect for grad students and those just 
entering grad school. Degree required. 
$7.50/hour. Mozart Management 682- 
7003
MISC
Attention! Earn $$$ in a research study 
on STD's Please call 1-800-540-7015
Completely Confidential.
~fRAVEL
Mexico/ Caribbean or Central 
America $200 r.t. Europe $1 79 o.w. 
Other world wide destinations cheap. 
ONLY TERRORISTS GET YOU THERE 
CHEAPER! Air-Tech (212) 219-7000. 
www.airtech.com
Europe-Summer '98 $159 (each way 
plus taxes) Caribb/Mexico - $199 R/T 
Low fares to all places! CALL 1-800- 
326-2009 http://www.airhitch.org
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........$10.00/wk
21-50 words..........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
Sports shorts
SHORTS, from page 11
meter race on the ergs. Freshmen Chris 
Raubacher and Dave Clumper turned in excep
tionally strong performances.
In addition to the Capitol Classic, the team is 
scheduled to race in the West Virginia Governors. 
Cup in Charleston and the Mid-Atlantic Sprints 
in Fairfax County, Virginia.
We are a young, dedicated, enthusiastic group 
of rowers and I. look forward to applying all of 
our hard work to those 2000 meter stretches of 
water over the next three weeks, said Tocknell.
UAA rewards Tartan 
basketball players
Sophomore Samantha Majernik, senior 
Kathleen OLeary, and senior Andy Sofish 
recently received recognition from the Uni
versity Athletic Association for outstanding 
basketball seasons. Sofish and OLeary gained 
Honorable Mention in the 1997-98 UAA Mens 
and Womens All-Association Basketball 
Team while Majernik was named to the AllAssociation second team.
This was the first, time Majernik, a for
ward and center, was awarded All-Associa
tion honors. She led the Tartans in scoring 
on the season, tallying an average 10 points 
per game and shooting almost 50 percent 
from the field. Majernik led the team and 
tied for sixth in the UAA in blocked shots. 
She also shot over 80 percent from the freethrow line while ranking second on the team 
in rebounds.
Compiled by 
BRIAN SMITH 
& PAUL BOOTHE
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff 
Sophomore Samantha Majernik puts up a shot 
against Chatham College on February 19.THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

PITT/OAKLAND/SHADY SIDE/BLOOMFIELD
WW Q IT ? Sun. - Thurs., 11 a.m. - 2 a.m. OO/'yjDD Fri. & Sat., 11a.m.-3 a.m.
Need a little separation from the establishment? How does 
30,000 feet sound? Well, thanks to our special Amtrak 
student discounts, theres never been a better time to choose 
the cool, casual comfort of an Amtrak train.
As a special offer, show us your face, a student ID to match, 
and give them the code Y814 and you get 10% off. Better 
yet, if you have a Student Advantage Card stuffed away in 
your book bag, you get 25%.
Go home. Visit friends. Even go back for summer classes if 
you have to? All at up to 25% off regular fares. You do the 
math. Good for travel between April 13 and June 20, and 
includes any of the over 500 destinations Amtrak serves.
Hurry. Seats are limited (this isnt a term paper you can blow 
off to the last minute). For more information on 
fares & reservations, call your travel agent or 
Amtrak at 1-800-USA-RAIL. Trains depart from 
the Amtrak station at 1100 Liberty Ave. 
in Pittsburgh.
Student Advantage Members
25%
valid April 13-June 20
TRYTHIN-SATION
THIN-SATION 
ONE TOPPING 
14 " LARGE PIZZA
$6.99.
Limited Time Offer. No coupon necessary.
A SCIITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, fluffy 
linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMCJ/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http://www.shadysideinn.com/
Offer shown is for coach class travel only and is subject to availability. Reservations are required. No multiple 
discounts. Fares, schedules and restrictions are subject to change without notice. Blackout dates may apply. 
Not valid for Autotraln. peak Metroliner, or Canadian portion of ViaRall.

---------------------------------------------------

i/niVmiyCALENDAR
April 26.1998
LOCAoncampus
Student Film Festival
will be taking place at 6.9 pm. 
and midnight on Thursday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Fetishes
will be playing at 8 pm on 
Thursday and 7 pmonSunday 
at the Carnegie Museum of Art.
Jackie Brown
will be playing at-7:30.10 pm. 
and 12:30 am on Friday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
The Uncertainty
will be playing at 8 pm on Friday 
and Saturday at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art.
Wag the Dog
will be playing at 7:30.10 pm. 
and 12:30 am on Saturday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Dolemite
will be playing at 8.10 pm. 
and midnight on Sunday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Besides International Childrens 
Day on April 23, there are 
numerous other celebrations 
taking place this week. Perhaps 
the most recognizable one is 
Earth Day. It will be celebrated 
on Wednesday, April 22, even in 
Canada. However, if you are from 
Alexandria, Virginia, you will be 
celebrating on May 16.This is 
considered to be the largest 
environmental event in the world, 
and people are encouraged to 
take part in positive action like 
community clean-up or treeplantings to remind them of their 
environmental responsibility.
Also taking place on Wednesday 
is the national celebration of 
Secretaries Day. It is on this day 
that professors should remember 
to treat their secretaries to 
something nice because they are 
often making photocopies and 
carrying out important tasks for 
ihem. It is also important to 
remember that guys are 
secretaries too. It isnt always 
prudent to bring a bouquet of 
flowers. There is a rumor that 
suitcases containing large 
quantities of cash are a very 
effective gift.
Thursday, April 23 is Holocaust 
Remembrance Day. On this 
anniversary of the Warsaw 
Ghetto uprising, people are 
asked to remember that over six 
million Jews were slaughtered by 
Nazis during World War II. It 
serves as a reminder of what we 
are capable of and a tragedy that 
should never be repeated.
Another New Moon will make a 
guest appearance on April 26. 
The old one became tired of 
partying with the sun and went on 
to find better solar systems to 
crash at and better planets to 
party with. The old moon will truly 
be missed.
Student Dormitory Council is
having its next meeting this 
Wednesday at 7:30 pm in the 
Connan Room in the UC. Partici
pating in SDC enables interaction 
with the administration on cam
pus issues and planning campus 
events. For more information, 
contact Andy Sadhwani, SDC 
Public Relations, at x2-3003.
SDC Treasure Hunt will take 
place this Wednesday from 10 am 
to 5 pm at the SDC table next to 
the Clock. One thousand candy 
packages will be hidden all over 
campus and many other prizes 
will be given away. Smiley cook
ies will be given to those who fill 
oiit surveys.
29 will perform in Skibo Coffee
house on Tuesday, April 28, from 
10 pm until midnight.
The Dancers Symposium is
presenting their spring perfor
mance this Friday at 8 pm in 
Rangos Hall. Tickets are $5 and 
will be sold at the door half an 
hour prior to the performance 
time. For additional information, 
email Rubina Zaidi at 
rzaidi@andrew.cmu.edu.
Amnesty International is hold
ing its first-ever JAMnesty on 
Saturday from 8 pm until mid
night in Highlander Cafeteria. 
Featured artists include The 
Fuzzy Comets. For more infor
mation, contact Melissa Chan at 
mlc@andrew.cmu.edu.
ROTC Annual Spring Parade/ 
Awards Ceremony will take 
place on Friday at 4 pm on the 
CFA lawn. The ceremony is open 
to the public.
Take Our Daughters To Work 
Day. The organizers of Take Our 
Daughters To Work Day at CMU 
are looking for student guides to 
serve as hosts to groups of 9- to 
15-year-old young women on 
Thursday. Guides will help lead 
groups to and from afternoon 
workshops offered around cam
pus and are invited to the event 
luncheon. For additional informa
tion, email Heather Sarik at 
hsarik@andrew.cmu.edu or Judi 
Mancuso at jm5p@andrew.cmu.edu.
Faculty Senate. Everyone is in
vited to attend Senate meetings 
during the semester. There will be 
a meeting on Wednesday, May 6 
in Cooper Auditorium, inside of 
Posner Hall. The meeting will 
begin promptly at 3:30 pm.
German Kaffeestunde. Come 
practice your German in a re
laxed, no-pressure environment 
while drinking Kaffee and eating 
Kuchen. The Kaffeestunde takes 
place every Tuesday afternoon 
from 3 to 4:30 pm in Skibo Cof
feehouse. For more information, 
contact Anne Green at x8-8050 or 
Stephen Brockman at x8-8055.
La Table Franaise will take 
place every Monday evening from 
5:30 to 6:30 pm in Skibo Coffee
house. Everyone is invited to 
come and speak French with
National Sovereignty 
and Children's Day
The founder of the Turkish Republic, Mustafa Kemal 
Ataturk, dedicated April 23 to the children of the country 
to emphasize that they are the future of the new nation.
It was on April 23, 1920, during the War of Independence, 
that the Grand National Assembly met in Ankara and laid 
down the foundation for a new, independent, secular, and 
modern republic from the ashes of the Ottoman Empire. 
This day has been dedicated to the children, and in their 
hands, the protection of the sovereignty and independence 
of the country has been entrusted. Among other activities 
that take place on this day, children send representatives to 
replace state officials and high-ranking bureaucrats 
in their offices, including the President, Prime 
Minister, Cabinet Ministers, and provincial 
governors. In turn, these child representatives 
sign executive orders related to educational 
and environmental policies. Also, a special 
session is held in the Grand National Assembly 
to discuss issues concerning children.
art by Mary Tremonte/Tartan Art Staff
other people. For additional infor
mation, contact the Department 
of Modern Languages or Profes
sors Buttry or Rockmore.
La Mesa de Espaol. The Span
ish Brown Bag Lunch and conver
sation hour will be held every 
Tuesday at 12:30 pm in Skibo Cof
feehouse. Take advantage of this 
opportunity to share in Spanish 
conversation. Speakers of all lev
els of Spanish are welcome. For 
additional information, contact 
Professors Zulema Zattoni or 
Bladi Ruiz at x8-5669.
music
WRCT and AB will present 
Fugazi, Burning Airlines (exJawbox/Government Issue), and 
QuixOTic (ex-Slant 6) on Satur
day, May 2 at 7 pm in the Rangos 
Ballroom in the UC. Tickets are 
$5 and go on sale for those with a 
valid CMU ID this Wednesday at 
11:30 am in Wean Commons in 
the UC. Tickets will be available 
for those without a valid CMU ID 
on Friday at the Information 
Desk. Call 621-0728 or x8-2106 
for more information.
University of Pittsburgh De
partment of Music will present 
a recital by pianist Sumi Lee on 
Tuesday at 8 pm in the Frick Fine 
Arts Auditorium in Oakland. Her 
program will include works by 
Bach, Mozart, Chopin, and many 
others. Admission is free. For ad
ditional information, contact 
Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
Y Music Society will feature 
classical champions Dawn 
Upshaw, soprano, and Richard 
Goode, piano, on Tuesday at 8 pm 
in the Carnegie Music Hall. The 
program will include pieces by 
Ives, Schumann, Debussy, and 
Schubert. Tickets are $45 with
student seats 
available for $7.
For more information or tickets 
call 521-8011, ext. TIX.
Traditional Korean Music will 
be performed by Heesun Kim at 
the Carnegie Library of Pitts
burgh Lecture Hall on Saturday 
at 2 pm. Kim, regarded as one of 
the most promising kayagum (12- 
string Korean zither) players of 
her generation, will perform tra
ditional and contemporary com
positions with percussionist 
Heeyoung Kim. This event is free 
to the public. For additional in
formation, call 622-3105.
HO, with saxophonist/composer 
Lee Robinson and percussionist 
Ravish Momin, will perform at 
the Carnegie Library on Satur
day, May 2 at 2 pm. The program 
will consist of improvisational 
music influenced by jazz, African, 
Brazilian, and West Indian tra
ditions. Admission is free. For 
more information, call 622-3105.
Renaissance and Baroque So
ciety will present Apollos Fire in 
Belshazzar, a Handel oratorio 
with soloists, chorus, and orches
tra, on Saturday, May 2 at 8 pm 
in Synod Hall. Tickets can be pur
chased at the Pitt Student Union, 
by phone at 682-7262, or at the 
door. Tickets are $8 for students. 
Otherwise, they will range in 
price from $15 to $30. A lecture 
will precede the show at 6:45 pm.
aroundtown
Ghawazee Middle Eastern 
Dance Troupe will perform eth
nic Middle Eastern Belly Danc
ing at the Carnegie Library on 
Saturday, May 16 at 2 pm. The 
performance is a mixture of choreography 
and improvisa
tion in the tradi
tional Middle 
Eastern style.
The show is open to 
the public. For additional infor
mation, call 622-3105.
National Aviary will celebrate 
the week of the child by having 
children join Mother Nature at 
noon each day until Friday for a 
story and song. Admission is free 
for children 12 and under on April 
22. A Bird of Prey/Star Trek Con
vention will take place on the 
weekend of May 2. For more in
formation, call 323-7235.
Pedal Pittsburgh, the regions 
premier spring bicycle ride and 
annual fund-raiser, will take 
place on Sunday, May 31 and will 
start and finish at Station 
Squares Bessemer Court. Start
ing times are at 7 am for the 
longer courses and up until 10 am 
for the shorter ones. Entry fees 
are $16 for individuals and $40 
per family for those who register 
by May 15. After that, fees will 
increase to $20 for individuals 
and $50 per family. To register, 
call the Pedal Pittsburgh Hotline 
at 232-3545.
models, productioi 
photographs, finisher 
costumes, and stagi 
properties will be ex 
hibited. For more infoi 
mation, contact Petr? 
Fallaux at x8-3877.
University of Pittsburgh wil 
hold its annual Student Art Ex 
hibition in the University Ar 
Gallery at the Frick Fine Art 
Building. This exhibition feature 
work from graduating seniors, a* 
well as notable showings from ui 
derclassmen. The show will rue 
through Sunday. The Gallery i 
open on Monday through Frida 
from 10 am until 4 pm.
talks/readings
theater
VOX pOpijlithe voice of the people______
loyal customer of Toys "R" Us for 20 years now
ISBTSINSISACP!
anyone else for a backrub? 
 mr. "dangerous"
Flav-R Guard Tubes 
but they liked them. 
Dooley,
To Ivan and Igor,
Ive watched the two of you bicker for 
most of the semester, and I just cant 
figure out why the two of you are so 
pissed off. I mean, if you two like sleeping 
with each others moms or testing each 
others masculinity, I would suggest 
playing Quake. Or better yet, why not 
duke it out on the Cut? It might be fun.
 Ichabod
You've been OUTED! 
Youre Welcome :).. 
Me.
to the girl locked away in the darkroom, 
flavored cheese has no place in your 
glove compartment, maybe you should 
buy a mouse.
int find_did(int const query, stamp const mrcoffee) 
{for(int i = 0; i < mrcoffee.packets_read; i++) 
if(mrcoffee.raw_data[i][0] == query) 
return i; 
return -1;
>
Oscar and 
Lucinda 
went to DC! 
Woohoo!!
You can advertise for free in The Tartan!
If you know of an event on or off campus that has relevance to the 
campus community or people in general, email au)vung@cmu.edu or 
mail it to The Tartan. Box 119 in the Carnegie Mellon University Center 
by the Wednesday before the Sunday before the event
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community! To 
submit a vox, simply email it to the guy at auyoung@cmu.edu, send it 
to The Tartan, Box 119 via campus mail, or drop it In the Vox Populi 
drop box on the ultra-quick Tartan Server.
Mr. Vox has had a question on the back of his mind for some time 
now. There are people who practice juggling in the University Center, 
tinUG. Blit Fd like for US 1x11 ttiere isn l an'faxiY who consistently plays a harmonica in there.
'  That just strikes him as being very odd because the harmonica is a
to Still D6 friends. very classical instrument and should be revered by many across the
planet for its unique ability to create such melodic and joyous sounds. 
Plus, a harmonica is a surefire way of scaring weird people away.
[RAGE] vs [BH]
Johnny,
I think that it would be 
better if we didnt conJenny
Flyin West, a play by Pearl 
Cleage, will be presented by 
Carnegie Mellon Drama at the 
Kresge Theatre from Friday 
through May 2. Flyin* West tells 
the tale of visionary black women 
staking a claim to land that will 
make them free in 1898 in 
Nocodemus, Kansas. Tiffany 
Trent will direct these perfor
mances. Shows begin at 8 pm. A 
matinee is scheduled for May 2 
at 2 pm. For more information, 
call the box office at x8-2407.
The Best of Times, the Worst o 
Times: The Contemporary Seen 
in Literature and Publishing is 
talk that David H. Lynn, edito 
of The Kenyon Review, will giv 
on Tuesday, at 7:30 pm at Border 
Books and Music in the Northwa 
Mall. This talk will assess th 
countrys literary and culturi 
scene. For additional informatioi 
contact Robert Peluso at 63? 
7854.
Achieving Sustainability, a
Earth Day lecture by Presiden 
Jared Cohon, will take place i 
Margaret Morrison 103 oj 
Wednesday from 4:30 to 5:30 pn: 
A reception will follow. To rej 
ter for this event or for more in 
formation send email to earthM 
andrew.cmu.edu.
religion
museums
Art and Business, an exhibition 
by artists in GSI, will be on dis
play in the UC Art Gallery until 
May 11. The UC Art Gallery is 
open to the public on weekdays 
from noon to 5 pm.
Designing Drama: Form and 
Function is on display at the 
Hewlett Gallery and will run 
through Wednesday. The sixth 
annual exhibit features the set, 
scenic, costume, lighting, and 
technical designs of the School of 
Dramas 83rd season of produc
tions. Watercolor sketches, scale
Roman Catholic Mass take 
place on Sundays at 10:30 am an 
8 pm in Mellon Auditoriun 
Posner Hall. It also takes plac 
daily at 12:30 pm in the U 
Chapel. For further informatioi 
call the Catholic Newman Cente 
at 681-3181.
Undergraduate Night will tal 
place at the Catholic Newma. 
Center this Wednesday. Th 
evening begins at 6:15 pm ft 
Mass, free buffet dinner, and di 
cussion. For additional inform 
tion, call 681-3181.
Holocaust Remembrance Di
will be commemorated with a pr 
gram hosted by Hillel-JUC 
Thursday from 8 to 9:30 pm at tl 
Beehive. For more informatio 
call Hillel -JUC at 621-8875.
Jewish Encounters will tal 
place tonight from 8:30 to 9:30 p 
at Hillel. There will also be 
Shabbat Dinner on Friday. F 
more information, call Hillel-JL 
at 621-8875.

---------------------------------------------------

Myths and Legends 
Spring Carnival/9S

---------------------------------------------------

EAThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 1998
Ungerer/Tartan Photo Staff 
Tenth Commandment
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Special to The Tartan
This years mens sweep
stakes races saw Spirit 
hold on to its top spot, Beta 
miss the finals, and SAE tri
umphantly return to Buggy 
with a top 10 finish.
The preliminary races on Fri
day morning were delayed for 
a few hours due to a rain 
shower early that morning.
After the roads dried, the races 
were underway.
In the first heat of the mens 
races, Phi Kap B led the entire 
way with Secretariat and fin
ished with a time of 2:19.74.
They were able to hold off Spirit 
C in spite of a mad dash to the 
finish line by the Hill 5 pusher, 
who crossed the line at 2:21.04.
Fringe C was way back with a 
time of 2:37.86.
The second race featured a 
close race between SDC B and 
SAE A, who returned to sweep
stakes this year after a few years In the fourth heat, Beta B,
on hiatus. SAEs front hill push- with Unforgiven, stayed very 
ers were able to get their buggy close behind SDC A on Hill 1, but 
up over the hill just ahead of SDCs Sambvca outrolled the 
SDCs RAGE, but SDCs buggy Beta buggy. SDCs back hill
passed early in the freeroll. SAEs 
strong pushers quickly made up 
the difference on the back hills 
and were able to finish with a 
time of 2:20.54, just one buggy 
length ahead of SDC, who posted 
a time of 2:21.02. This race ended 
up being very important, because 
SAE edged out SDCs B team for 
the 10th and final spot in the 
finals. Well behind them was Sig 
Nu C with a time of 2:33.68.
The next heat saw PiKA B 
dominate with a strong push 
team and a fast roll by their 
famed buggy Mad Dog. They 
finished with a time of 2:14.24, 
well ahead of Phi Kap C, who 
posted a time of 2:26.96 with 
Centennial. CIA, who returned 
to buggy after a few years off, 
crossed at 2:34.48.
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Spirit A pusher Wole Oyenuga brings Haraka up Hill 5 on its way to victory.
SDC C, who finished with a time 
of 2:32.33.
The seventh heat featured an 
incredible Phi Kap A push team 
whose dominant Hill 1 pusher 
helped lead the way to a 2:11.60 
with their new buggy, Serenity. 
PiKA C finished with a 2:28.59, 
just barely ahead of Sig Tau A, 
who posted a 2:30.09 with-Fb/gers.
In the next race, Beta A was 
expected to crush its opponents, 
especially after an impressive 
second-place finish the year be
fore. However, a very disappoint
ing freeroll by Betas new buggy 
Occam caused them to finish 
with a time of 2:21.60, which left 
them out of the top 10. KDR A 
was very close behind and 
crossed the line at 2:24.74. Kap 
Sig A posted a time of 2:31.52.
The ninth heat saw PiKA A 
dominate with an incredible roll 
by Phantom, its newest buggy. 
PiKAs pushers showed the doubt
ers that they had plenty of speed
pUshers kept the large lead and 
finished with a time of 2:18.59, 
ahead of Beta B, who crossed at 
2:23.98. KDR B finished with a 
time of 2:34.52.
Sig Nu A started the next heat 
with a speedy Hill 1 pusher who 
opened up a gap that was never 
closed by Pioneers B and Fringe 
B. Sig Nu finished well ahead 
with a time of 2:18.80. Pioneers 
crossed the line at 2:27.04. Fringe 
finished third in spite of being 
ahead of Pioneers at the start of 
the freeroll. They posted a 2:33.39 
with their new, unique luge-style 
buggy Brooklyn.
In the sixth heat, a strong Spirit 
B push team led the whole race 
and finished well ahead with a 
quick time of 2:14.52. Well back 
was Fringe A with a 2:23.18 and
by posting an impressive time 
of 2:09.77. Well behind were 
Sig Nu B with a 2:28.54 and 
CIA B, who finished at 2:32.57.
Spirit A led the way up Hill 1 
in the final heat of the day, but 
Pioneers A stayed very close 
behind. Spirits Hill 2 pusher 
opened up a more comfortable 
lead for Haraka going into the 
freeroll, and Pioneers could not 
close the gap. A fast set of back 
hills helped lead Spirit to the 
top time on the first day of rac
ing, 2:08.25. Pioneers finished 
strong with its new buggy Scor
pion and posted a time of 
2:18.22. Sig Tau B was well 
behind with a time of 2:36.67.
After one day of racing, Spirit 
A lead the way, but PiKA A and 
Phi Kap A were very close be
hind. PiKA B and Spirit B 
looked like they would battle it 
out for the number four spot 
the next day. There would also 
be a tight race the next day for 
the sixth and final trophy be
tween Sig Nu A, Pioneers A, SDC 
A, Phi Kap B, and SAE A.
The cold temperature on Sat
urday seemed to slow down al
most every team in the mens 
finals. Spirit B and SAE A started 
out the morning in the first heat. 
Spirit led on the front hills, but 
SAEs strong pushers stayed close 
behind. A quick roll by Spirit 
opened up a gap that SAE could 
not close on the back hills this 
time. Spirit B crossed the line 
with a slower 2:15.48, but it was 
still good enough to put them in 
fourth place at the end of the day. 
SAE A kept their tenth spot by 
rolling a 2:23.69.
The second heat featured two B 
teams from PiKA and Phi Kap. 
PiKA was in the lead going into 
the freeroll and rolled very fast, 
but Phi Kap made up some ground 
on the back hills. PiKA B crossed 
the line at 2:16.96, almost three 
seconds slower than their time 
the previous day. They would fin
ish the day in sixth place. Phi 
Kap B posted 2:20.98, which kept 
them in ninth place.
In the next heat, Phi Kap As 
Hill 1 pusher was once again the 
fastest up the hill, beating even 
Sig Nu As quick Hill 1 pusher. Phi 
Kap finished with a 2:12.53, good 
enough for third place overall. 
Chasing the speedy Phi Kap push
ers seemed to help Sig Nu A push 
harder on the second day of rac
ing. They cut their time to 2:16.76 
and leap-frogged into fifth place.
In the fourth heat, PiKA A led 
the way up Hill 1 with SDC A hot 
on their heels. However, PiKA A 
opened up a lead in the freeroll 
that it did not let up on the back 
hills. PiKA finished with a 
2:10.46, which would only be good 
enough for second place this year.
SDC A posted a time of 2:19.88 
which put them in eighth place.
The final heat was a rematch 
between Spirit A and Pioneers A. 
Again, Spirit led the way up Hill 
1 with Pioneers close behind: 
Spirit finished the race in 2:09.45', 
one second ahead of PiKA A. Pio
neers A crossed the line at 2:18.27 j 
which left them in seventh place, 
just out of trophy range.
Spirit A took home the champi
onship for the second year, in a 
row, with PiKA A just behind. 
Phi Kap As third-place finish 
showed its team will be one to be 
reckoned with in the years to 
come. Betas weak showing 
seemed to reflect some mechani
cal problems that need to be ad
dressed if they want to return t6 
the top group of teams.
micneue
Sig Nu pusher Alfredo Rodriguez catches up with
Awards ceremony spotlights Carnival winners
By REENA SINGHAL
Tartan Staffwriter
The trophies glistened atop the plat
form on the CFA lawn last Satur
day evening. Months of hard work went 
into the booths and buggies, and payoff 
time was nearing for the anxious chairs. 
Thus, the awards ceremony for Spring 
Carnival 1998 began.
The presentation began with awards 
for the Buggy competition. The first 
award given out was the Peoples Choice 
Award. During the buggy design compe
tition, which was held in the University 
 Center Gymnasium on Thursday, people 
were able to cast their votes for their 
; favorite buggy for only a quarter. The 
; award was presented to Sigma Nu for 
Jubatus. As the presenter said, SigNu,
; the people like you.
This year a trophy was created by the 
; design competition chair to recognize an
 organization that showed the most im; provement organizationally as well as in 
; buggy design, according to Dani Barnard,
- this years Sweepstakes chair and a se nior professional writing major. Each of 
the 13 competing organizations voted for 
an organization other than itself, which 
they felt had recently made big improve
ments to its buggy program. This award 
was presented to the Carnegie Involve
ment Association (CIA) for their two bug
gies, Stealth and Conquest.
A lot of the chairmen were impressed
- that this organization had managed to 
scrape enough manpower and money 
together to compete this year^ said
Barnard. CIA had not com
peted in Buggy for the past 
three years, so this year was 
a big comeback for them.
Thank you. I wish my 
team could be here, but 
theyre still pushing 
Stealth up Hill 5, said 
Aiton Goldman, the CIA 
representative who ac
cepted the award.
Next, the awards for the 
buggy design competition 
were presented. The design 
competition is judged by a 
panel of engineers from cam
pus and industry.
It is great when we can 
get industry judges, because 
it gives our students great 
practical feedback on their 
designs and may even help 
them get jobs, said Barnard.
The third-place award for 
buggy design went to Spirit 
for Kufa Haraka, the secondplace award went to SDC for 
Sambvca, and the first-place 
award went to Phi Kappa 
Theta for their new buggy, Celerity.
This years t-shirt award was pre
sented to PiKA for their Phantom shirt, 
which was designed by Mark Prommel, 
a senior industrial design major, for 
PiKAs new buggy, Phantom.
The Spirit of Buggy Award, an award 
which was not given last year but has 
been presented in the past, was awarded 
to Fringe. Barnard said, It is intended
PiKAs womens A team accepts their first-place Sweepstakes trophy at last Saturdays awards ceremony.
to just recognize an organization that 
gives extra support, time, and effort to 
help Sweepstakes as a whole. Fringe, 
went the extra mile to get things done 
for the good of Buggy and were always 
completely selfless.
Following these awards, the awards 
for the Sweepstakes competition were 
presented. In the womens divison, 
awards were presented for the top three
times in the Finals competition. Third 
place was awarded to SDC A. Second 
place was awarded to the Beta A team, 
who exited the stage after shouting, Its 
not always the buggies; its the push
ers. The first-place award in the 
womens divison was presented to the 
PiKA A team. PiKA works hard all year 
long, and we deserve this! said the team 
while on stage accepting their award.
Absent from the top three 
places in the womens divisoti 
was the Spirit A womens teanj, 
who has won six out of the la^t 
eight Sweepstakes competition^ 
and currently holds the womens 
course record. This year, they 
had the fastest time during the 
preliminary races, but were dis
qualified during the finals, sup
posedly because of a late transi
tion between two hills.
In the mens division, 
awards were presented for the 
top six times in the Finals 
competition. Sixth place wajs 
awarded to the PiKA B tean}, 
fifth place to the Sigma Nu p 
team, fourth place to the Spirjt 
B team, and third place to thje 
PhiKap A team.
The second-place award wa|s 
presented to the PiKA A team. 
Next year we are going to he 
twice as fast and twice as 
strong, said Bryan Weather
ford, a sophomore electrical 
and computer engineering 
(ECE) major and a pusher for 
the PiKA A team. Since 1959, no 
graduating class from PiKA has gone 
without a PiKA victory in Buggy. Wei;e 
going to keep that alive, said Josjh 
Burch, also a sophomore ECE majqr 
and pusher for the PiKA A team.
The first-place award in the mens 
divison was presented to the Spirit A 
team. It feels great to bring the trophy 
Please see AWARDS, page L3
all banner art by Mark Adato/Tartan Art Co-Editor
Spirit A captures first place for second year

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 1998L3
book1

coming
w Tickzis. A<Jvic. .
i Vic* frtopU.
Bffifflffil Travel - jC
 CIEE: Council on International j
Educational Exchange
i 118 Meyran Avenue j 
' Pittsburgh  
(412) 683-1881 \
 -i,ft ; aiBlf ill..ITI I '
Official results for Sweepstakes 1998
Womens Preliminaries18.Sigma Nu B2:28.54
1.PiKA A2:42.6319.PiKA C2:28.59
2.Sigma Nu A2:48.2920.Sig Tau A2:30.09
3.SDC A2:48.7021.Kappa Sig A2:31.52
4.Pioneers A2:49.8122.SDC C2:32.33
5.Beta A2:55.4423.CIA B2:32.57
6.PiKA B2:55.9124.Fringe B.2:33.39
7.Fringe A2:56.5025.CIA A2:34.48
8.SDC B3:03.9326.KDR B2:34.52,
9.Sigma Nu B3:07.0027.Sig Tau B2:36.67
10.SDC C3:13.7628.Fringe C2:37.86
11.Sig Tau A3:19.64Fringe ADQ (failed
Spirit ADQ (transiten violation)Sigma Nu CDQ (failed
Spirit BScratch
Womens Finals
Men's Finals
1. Spirit A 2:09.45
1.PiKA A2:43.282. PiKA A 2:10.46
2.Beta A2:45.853. Phi Kap A 2:12.53
3.SDC A2:53.824. Spirit B 2:15.48
4.PiKA B2:56.865. Sigma Nu A 2:16.76
5.Pioneers A2:56.886. PIKA B 2:16.96
Sigma Nu ADid not finish (spin)7. SDC A 2:19.88
Mens Preliminaries
8. Phi Kap B 2:20.98
9. SAE A 2:23.69
1,Spirit A2:08.25Pioneers A DQ (pacing)
2.PiKA A2:09.77
3.Phi Kap A2:11.60Notes:
4.PiKA B2:14.24 Transition violation. A transition from one
5.Spirit B2:14.52pusher to the next occurred outside of the
6.Pioneers A2:18.22transition zones between hills.
7.SDC A2:18.59 Failed drop test. After each heat, each buggy is
8.Sigma Nu A2:18.80required to pass a test of the braking system,
9.Phi Kap B2:19.74known as a drop test." The buggy is released
10.SAE A2:20.54from rest and allowed to roll a certain distance,
11.SDC B2:21.02after which it must come to a complete stop
12.Spirit C2:21.04within a few feet of the braking point.
13.Beta A2:21.60 Pacing. One or more people from a team
14.Beta B2:23.98followed their pusher too closely up one of the
15.KDR A2:24.75hills (they paced the pusher up the hill).
16.Phi Kap C2:26.96 Spin. The buggy lost control in the chute and
17.Pioneers B2:27.04was unable to finish the course.
PiKA A tops womens teams in upset victory
AWARDS, from page L2
back home, said Jerry Baptiste, 
a senior math major and pusher 
on Spirits A team. Spirit has 
participated since 1985 and has 
won first place in the mens divi
sion in eight out of the last 12 
Sweepstakes competitions. They 
still hold the course record.
Following all the Buggy 
awards, the Booth awards were 
presented, beginning with the 
Chairmans Choice Award. 
[This award] is given to the or
ganization that has been the 
most helpful with [Booth] 
throughout the year and the easi
est to work with, said Margaret 
Wang, Midway chair and a jun
ior electrical and computer engi
neering major. This years 
Chairmans Choice Award was 
presented to Delta Gamma.
In the independent category, 
the Asian Student Association 
(ASA) was awarded third place 
for their booth, Jack and the 
Beanstalk. Fringe was awarded 
second place for their booth, Leg
end of Sleepy Hollow. The firstplace award was presented to 
KGB, for their booth, Baba 
Yaga. The representative from 
KGB who accepted the award 
said, The dream started six years 
ago.... Its been a long time since 
weve been up here, and wed like 
to be up here again.
In the sorority category, the 
third-place award was presented 
to Zeta Psi Sigma for their booth, 
Loch Ness Monster. The sec
ond-place award was presented 
to Kappa Kappa Gamma for their 
booth, Peter Pan, and the firstEvent recognizes champions
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
Kappa Alpha Theta sisters accept their first-place trophy for Booth.
place award was presented to 
Kappa Alpha Theta for their 
booth, The Lion, the Witch, and 
the Wardrobe.
In the fraternity category, the 
third-place award was presented 
to Phi Kappa Theta for their 
booth, Leonardos Workshop. 
Second place was presented to 
Alpha Epsilon Pi (AEPi) for their 
booth, Area 51. This booths 
design was based on a research 
center in Nevada where alien re
search is supposedly being con
ducted, according to AndyYeckel, 
a senior ECE major and the AEPi 
co-chair for booth.
Were all very excited. Its the 
first time weve placed in about 
10 years, said Yeckel.
The first-place award in the 
fraternity category was presented 
to Delta Upsilon for their booth, 
Santas Workshop.
By NATHAN STEINWALD
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
W
' ith great fanfare (and a 
eak in the clouds early Friday 
niorning), Sweepstakes 98 got under
way last weekend. It was accompanied 
by the usual fleet of rental trucks, tiredof the Hill, Kerry Riley, and her time of 
21.6 seconds on Hill 1. But that time was 
more than 13 seconds behind Spirits.
With the womens races completed, 
most people shifted their attention to the 
mens competition. Yet behind the scenes, 
Sigma Nu protested Spirit As race, say
ing that Spirit A had a bad exchange 
eyed students, and alumni who saw their between Hills 3 and 4. They filed a com
own past in each race of the day.
While some of the prelude to the races 
may be predictable, the outcome never 
is. This year, a disqualification after 
Fridays races and a spin on Saturday 
dampened the spirits of some, 
but left PiKAs womens A 
team with the first-place tro
phy and bragging rights for 
the next year.
Fridays races began later 
than the scheduled 8 am start
ing time due to rain earlier in 
the morning. The sky remained 
overcast, and the chance that 
new showers would cancel the 
days races altogether remained 
real. However, the showers did 
not come, and at 9:30 am, the 
first gun went off, sending 
Sigma Nu B, PiKA B, and SDC 
B up Hill 1.
Only the top six teams of the 
13 competing in preliminaries 
would make the Saturday cut 
and compete in the finals. Each 
participant knew this, and the 
fervor of the crowd only rein
forced the diehard attitude 
etched on the face of each pusher.
At the end of the days pre
liminaries^ Spirit A held the 
top position. Behind them by 
little more than a second was 
PiKA A, reaffirming the intense 
. competition between the two 
groups. At least seven seconds 
behind them lay a pack of 
competitors featuring Sigma 
Nu A, SDC A, and Pioneers A.
In sixth place was Beta A, 
whose team boasted the Queen
plaint with the Sweepstakes committee.
Into the evening, the committee re
viewed the tapes of the race made by the 
lead car, which runs ahead of buggies 
during each race. By morning they had
Anna Fortin/Tartan Photo Staff 
PiKA A pusher Jessika Coltz charges towards the finish line.
made their decision: Spirit A was dis
qualified. All of the other' teams moved 
up one spot and PiKA B took the sixth 
and final place.
It was a lot of what we consider to be 
nonsense, said junior art major and 
Spirit pusher Lakeshia McCoy. They 
wouldnt show us the video. According 
to McCoy, Spirit was also told by some
one who had seen the video that it didnt 
show whether or not the exchange was 
bad and that Sweepstakes used a series 
of estimations to make its decision. 
Sweepstakes ch&ir Dani Barnard 
wouldnt comment on the situ
ation except to say that the 
committees methods on the 
review process were secret.
We felt cheated because it 
would have been our fourth 
trophy. We felt cheated because 
we didnt get to compete on the 
last day, said McCoy.
Despite the controversy, 
Saturdays races went for
ward. In the first heat, SDC A 
raced against PiKA B. SDC 
grabbed an early lead on Hill 
1 but was passed on the down
hill. Out of the chute PiKA 
held the lead, but SDCs push
ers lifted them past the PiKA 
buggy and set the days open
ing mark at 2:53.82.
Were happy with [the race]. 
We wanted a trophy, and I 
think we got it, said Chelsea 
Mamell, SDCs Hill 1 pusher 
and a senior history major.
Heat 2 held the upset of the 
day when Sigma Nu A and Beta 
A lined up against each other. 
On Friday, Sigma Nu ran a 
time that was more than six 
seconds faster than Betas. The 
cold of the morning brought 
SDCs time down by nearly five 
seconds on Saturday from the 
mark they set on Friday.
Beta broke the trend with a 
time almost 10 seconds faster
Chris Cannon/Tartan Contributing Editoh 
SDC A Hill 1 pusher Chelsea Mamell shoves Sambvca off to Hill 2 pusher Sarah Frew.
than their Friday time. In this race, Hill 
1 proved to be the most critical. Fridays 
Queen of the Hill Riley put in another 
unrivaled performance with a time of
21.4 seconds. The 30-40 foot lead that 
Beta earned into the downhill portion of 
the race ended up being vital for them 
and costly for the Sigma Nu team. On the 
freeroll, Sigma Nus leaner buggy caught 
up to Beta and, in the chute, made its 
move to pass. However Beta was holding 
a tight line in the turn, and when Sigma 
Nu tried to pass, their driver bumped the 
back of Betas buggy and spun out. [Beta 
driver sophomore Laura Mattie] was hold
ing an inside line, and there was really no 
room to pass, said Betas Hill 4 pusher 
Andrea Nellis, a sophomore civil and 
environmental engineering major.
Beta went on to earn a time of2:45.85, 
good enough to put them in first before 
the final heat. We were really happy 
with the results, said Erin Rockwell, a
sophomore civil and environmental en: 
gineering major and Betas Hill 2 pusher.
In the final heat, Pioneers A and PiKA 
A lined up in what ended up being PiKAs 
crowning moment. PiKA held the lead 
for the whole race and was only compet
ing with the clock. The incentive of a 
championship proved to be enough, and 
PiKA grabbed the first-place medal with 
a time of 2:43.28.
Our womens team worked really hard 
this year, said Jackie Autieri, a senior 
chemical engineering major and PiKAs 
womens push captain. The mechanic? 
and chairmen for PiKA worked even 
harder to prepare the buggies. They are 
the ones who made it all possible. Its a 
great feeling to graduate with a first1 
place medal.
PiKA A finished first on the day, with 
Beta A in second, SDC A in third place;, 
PiKA B in fourth, Pioneers A in fifth, 
and Sigma Nu having spun out.
- 

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 1998
Booth builders bring legendary characters to Midway
By GREGORY NOFI
Tartan Staffwriter
Last weekend, there was only 
one place where you could 
find a hockey rink dedicated to 
The Hanson Brothers and facing 
Leonardo da Vincis house. Many 
people also discovered that Area 
51 is not too far away from Santas 
Workshop. These surprising rev
elations took place at Midway at 
the 1998 Spring Carnival.
' This years overall theme for 
booths was Myths and Legends. 
!The first major obstacle for most 
'of the participating organizations 
iwas selecting their individual 
itheme to help celebrate the over
all one. Delta Upsilon (DU) de
cided to look toward the North 
iPole for their theme.
[ - Santa is the ultimate myth and 
the ultimate legend, said Todd 
iGahill, junior civil and environ
mental engineering major and 
booth chair. We always like to 
make our booth for the children.
Their booth, which won first 
place in the fraternity category, 
was a replica of Santas work
shop. There were several hand
made elves standing on minia
ture walkways that were con
structed throughout the booth. 
Participants in the game had to 
help Santa pack by using a con
veyor belt and pulley to try to get 
a present in his bag.
Sometimes an organization will 
 already have an idea in mind be
fore construction. One organiza
tion, KGB, had been waiting for a 
! long time for this years Carnival. 
! Our organization has wanted 
!to do The Legend of Baba Yaga 
.for six years. When we learned 
. about this theme two years ago, 
!we immediately started to 
work on it, said Bryan 
! Nagy, a senior computer 
science major
oiacey i exziany i artan rnoto oian 
A visitor to AEPis Area 51" booth blasts an alien. The booth won second place in the fraternity category.
Afuma Porter/Tartan Junior Staff
and KGBs booth chair. Their 
work paid off, gaining them first 
place in the independent category.
Baba Yaga is an evil witch in 
Russian folklore who lived in a 
hut that rested on two chicken 
legs. Just as in the myth, the base 
of KGBs booth consisted of two 
large legs made of plywood and 
papier-mache. Another feature of 
their booth that Nagy found diffi
cult to construct was the octago
nal roof. Visitors won prizes by 
scooping out the most eyeballs in 
a 30-second time period from a 
real, cast-iron cauldron.
Around the corner from Baba 
Yagas hut was a big closet where 
visitors quickly found themselves 
surrounded by oversized objects. 
Kappa Alpha Theta used this de
vice for their booth, The Lion, 
the Witch, and the Wardrobe, to 
help capture first place in the 
sorority division.
The wardrobe is the main 
part. Were trying to create the 
impression of a little kid, so ev
erything is oversized, said Emily 
Zajano, sophomore biology major 
and co-chair of Thetas booth.
Inside the closet, participants 
found themselves inside the 
childrens story by C. S. Lewis. In 
the book, the evil spell is-broken 
when the two boys and two 
girls become the kings and 
queens of Namia. Participants 
in Thetas game had to toss beanbags representing the four chil
dren onto a throne.
Second place in the sorority di
vision went to Kappa Kappa 
Gammas Peter Pan booth, 
which took a different approach 
than the other booths.
We wanted to do something 
different, so we thought of a 
treehouse and wanted to incorpo
rate it with Peter Pan, said Rita 
Bosch, a sophomore industrial 
management major and booth 
chair for Kappa. We were really 
excited about our theme, which' 
made us want to work harder.
The Peter Pan treehouse con
tained a large amount of hand
made objects. Sorority members 
laid down the deck themselves 
and built tables, chairs, a tree 
with a swing, a crocodile, and 
even Peter Pan himself. Contes
tants won necklaces and pirate 
toys by dropping a disk through a 
Plinko maze into the various slots.
Little disks, on the 
other hand, were not 
enough to stop the en
emy that Alpha Epsi
lon Pi (AEPi) created 
in their booth Area 
51. On the second floor 
of the futuristic AEPi 
booth, contestants had 
to shoot to kill comput
erized aliens as part of 
the customized story 
for the booth.
Our booth and game 
are adapted from the 
legend of Area 51, but 
we made up the whole 
story to go with it, said 
Jason Katcoff, a sopho
more chemical engi
neering major and 
member of AEPi.
Area 51 is a military 
base in Nevada that is highly re
stricted by the government. Many 
people believe that the base con
tains recovered extraterrestrial 
vechicles. According to AEPis 
story, engineers were trying to 
recreate the technology used by 
the aliens. Then, visitors had the 
opportunity to see the aliens in 
the underground lab where visi
tors had the opportunity to win 
alien prizes. AEPis booth won sec
ond place in the fraternity divi
sion.
Fringe decided to choose a more 
legendary American tale for their 
booth, which won second place 
among independent organiza
tions. In The Legend of Sleepy 
Hollow, players took on the role 
of the headless horseman that 
chased Ichabod Crane in the clas
sic Washington Irving story. To 
win, they had to throw a pump
kin and hit Cranes head.
For Phi Kappa Thetas booth,
DUs replica of Santas Workshop won first place among the fraternities
Brian Smith/Tartan Sports Co-Editor 
A young Midway visitor feeds Jack in ASAs booth.
which won third place in the fra
ternity category, the idea did not 
come easily.
The ideas really take a while to 
come up with. You consider two
The idea that blew Phi Kaps 
mind away was a man who had 
a really impressive mind him
self: Leonardo da Vinci. Their 
two-story booth contained many 
wood workings, gadgets, and 
other da Vinci artifacts. There 
were even replicas of several 
paintings, including 
the Mona Lisa.
The sorority booth 
that took third place 
was Zeta Psi Sigmas 
Loch Ness Mon
ster. Inside the 
booth were various 
newspaper articles 
about sightings of the 
legendary beast. 
Contestants of their 
game tossed quar
ters onto fish to try 
to hit it or land on it. 
Those who were suc
cessful won prizes 
such as squirt guns 
and tattoos.
The Asian Student 
Association (ASA) 
won third place for 
their Jack and the 
Beanstalk booth. In accordance 
with the story, players tried to 
kill the giant by throwing balls 
into its mouth. Winners received 
jelly beans which were supposed
for a month, and then you think of to represent the magic beans used 
a third one which blows your mind jn the tale.
If you are a non-business major and you want to improve your marketability,
The Haas School of Business 
at the University of California Berkeley 
Summer BASE Program IS FOR YOU!
Learn the fundamentals of:
 Accounting  Marketing
 Finance  Organizational Behavior
 Hands-on market & financial research
 Business related computer applications
 Effective communication & presentation skills
 Prepare for the corporate recruiting process
Juniors, and Seniors will benefit from this rigorous, six-week summer 
that will include lectures, case studies, company visits, guest speakers and
away, and you immediately choose 
it, said Derek Rutledge, a snior 
electrical and computer engineer
ing major and president of Phi 
Kap. The first idea you come up 
with is never used.
We thought this would be a 
good theme because its known 
everywhere, said Jack Liu, a 
sophomore social and decision sci
ences major and ASA booth chair. 
Everyone knows the story, and
we thought that it was very fit 
ting for children.
Many of those who enjoyed the 
booths were children who liked 
the different designs and games.
I think some of the booths are 
really amazing because it prob
ably took them a while to build, 
said seven-year-old Ben Sirbu. 
Peter Pan was my favorite game 
because.it had great prizes.
Four Blitz Booths were intro
duced to this years Carnival to 
increase participation among or
ganizations that did not have the 
time or resources to build a fullsized booth. Mayur entered the 
Carnival in this way with their 
Mahabharat booth. The booth 
was based on the Indian legend of 
a prince who shot a fish in the eye 
by aiming at its reflection on the 
ceiling. In the game based on this 
legend, the contestant had to shoot 
a moving target on the ceiling 
while looking down at a mirror on 
the floor. The booth and the game 
took only five days to build.
Many organizations have found 
that Booth promotes teamwork 
and. brings the organization to
gether to achieve a common goal. 
Elaborate design and strong con
struction help to contribute to a 
good booth, but a booth is not 
possible if there is no teamwork.
It was a really good bonding 
experience, said Emily Zajano, 
sophomore biology major andTheta 
booth chair. We could divide people 
up into teams which built a par
ticular portion of the booth. We 
had a lot of work and pressure 
which brought us together.
A Storm of New. 
value-priced, authentic Mexican 
Burritos!!
Al Nino-------$
(over 3/4 lbs. of fresh, healthy burrito)El Cheapo...
(great as a snack, or two for a real meal)
Original Mexican Burritos
For more information, contact our website at: 
haas.berkeley.edu/Undergrad/base.html 
or via email at: BASE@haas.berkeley.edu

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 1998L5
Mobots roll in annual slalom race
By KEVIN BABBITT
Tartan Features Editor
Four minutes to travel 
about200 feet. Easy for a 
human, challenging for a ro
bot. Epecially challenging for a 
"human building a robot. Yet 19 
competitors and 12 robots at
tempted to meet this challenge 
, in Friday afternoons fourth 
annual mobot (mobile robot) 
slalom race.
Compared to the Buggy 
races, [Mobot] is an activity 
that one or two people can do 
successfully. It emphasizes 
the technical aspect as op
posed to the athletic aspect,
(said Ben Brown, a project sci
entist in the Robotics Insti
tute and one of the organizers 
of the event. CMU is a big 
name in robotics, and we felt 
we should have some kind of 
robotics competition.
1 The mobot course consists 
of a white line painted on the 
'sidewalk in front of Doherty 
and Wean Halls. Mobots must gineeringmajors Scott Weber and 
navigate the course, passing Fred Doerr, lost the line where
ivncnene ungerer/1 arcan rnoto atan 
Competitors watch as their mobot passes through the zeroth (start) gate.
through a series of 14 square 
gates. There are two hills on the 
course, as well as a branching 
section at the bottom where 
mobots must make decisions 
, about which path to follow.
{ This years competitors sported 
{ a number of design features un\ seen in previous yearsr entries. 
Two mobots featured vision; based (as opposed to light sen; sor-based) navigation; one had a 
I laptop computer in tow, while 
! another had a laptop mounted 
! within its large frame; and one 
i had an antenna-like sensor stick
ing out of the top. Its purpose 
was to count the gates as it made 
; its way down the course.
! One competitor achieved a milej stone in mobot evolution: It sucj ceeded in making it down the 
! course all the way through the 
' first branch point. During the 
| third heat, Go Time, built by se
nior electrical and computer enthe course forks at the bottom of 
the second hill, but managed to 
recover and pass through the first 
gate of the decision section before 
going off course for good.
Dan Bothell, a psychology alum
nus and staff member in the De
partment of Psychology who has 
won the competition in years past, 
entered two mobots this year. The 
first, DJB IV, sped down the 
course, making its way to gate 7 
(near the top of the second hill) 
with a time of 1:20.17, gaining it a 
win in the exhibition category. 
His second entry, Wanderer, fea
tured a double-base design capable 
of rolling both forwards and side
ways. The mobot proceeded for
ward out of the start gate as usual. 
Then, to the amusement of the 
audience, the mobot put down a 
second set of wheels perpendicu
lar to the normal set and rolled 
sideways towards the first gate. It 
switched several times between
its forwards and sideways wheel 
sets before finally clearing gate 1. 
According to Bothell, that was all 
it was designed to do; he had hard
coded the path to the first gate 
into the mobot.
Most of the competitors cited 
fun as the main reason they got 
involved in the Mobot races. Its 
a neat idea, said Morgan 
Simmons, a sophomore mechani
cal engineering major who built a 
mobot along with Merle 
Rosenberg, a sophomore com
puter science major. In the first 
heat, their mobot, Mmmbot, 
made it to gate 7 before exceeding 
the four-minute time limit.
Its a place for undergradu
ates and graduates to bring to
gether mechanical engineering 
and computer engineering in one 
challenge, said Illah Nourbakhsh, assistant professor of 
robotics and another organizer of 
the event. It lets us showcase 
the creativity of CMU students 
solving a hard problem.
Unique Career Opportunity!!
You owe it to yourself to read this before accepting 
any other offer...
Memco is a fast growing soft
ware company with award win
ning security products.
The explosive growth of the 
Internet has created a huge 
demand for our products and ser
vices. To meet this demand, we 
are looking to add outstanding, 
creative problem solvers to our 
team. As a fast growing and prof
itable company, we appreciate and 
reward excellence. High performWe currently have openings for 
Security Consultants.
Be part of our front line of excel
lence. Our Security Deployment 
Associates work as consultants to 
our most prestigious customers 
(major Wall Street and internation
al financial firms and Fortune 500 
companies) to solve their network 
and host security problems. The 
projects are intellectually and techers can expect competitive salaries, nically challenging and are often at
generous bonuses, stock options, the forefront of electronic comand rapid advancement within the merce.
company.
If you have strong inter-personal and communications 
skills, a solid understanding of the major UNIX variants, 
or the NT operating system, understand networking & dis
tributed computing concepts, and are looking for an oppor
tunity that will enable you to continue your professional 
and technical growth, youve found it.
If you are looking to share in the growth of a hot company, 
offering excellent benfits, without the risk of a startup, 
MEMCO is for you.
Check us out in your University Career Center, Job Trak, 
and on the Web at www.memco.com and then fax your 
resume today to
Janet Shaw (212) 888-6240_____________________________
Roselawn residents host party
py BECCA FRIBUSH
fiartan Forum Editor
6as flutes and fiddles played softly in 
j^"^the background, chivalrous lords in 
long, belted tunics and noble ladies in 
dresses with laced bodices danced the 
evening away. Merrie England, circa 
1300? Nope, Pittsburgh, circa 1998.
[ Saturday on the Carnival Midway, 
the Pittsburgh intercollegiate chapter 
of the Society for Creative Anachronism 
(SCA), a group that seeks to re-create 
medieval European life, held a demon
stration of music and dance. Local SCA
trica Tamaaa/ lanan rnoio oian
SCA members perform a medieval dance.
members sang songs from the Middle 
Ages and performed dances such as 
Rufty-Tufty and Gathering Peascods, 
accompanied by a four-piece band. They 
dressed in full costume, filling the Mid
way tent with swirling skirts and capes.
The dances came from all corners of 
Europe. Rufty-Tufty is from England, 
Petit Vriens originated in Italy, and 
Tangle Bransle, in which the SCA 
members invited the entire audience to 
participate, is French. Tangle Bransle 
was quite simple, explained SCA public 
relations and recruitment officer and 
CMU electrical and computer engineer
ing alum Trevor Schadt.
This is the step, he said, stepping 
sideways with one foot and bringing the 
other to meet it. You just repeat it, ad 
naseum. Just be sure to keep hold of the 
hands of the people next to you. As the 
person at the head of the line ducked 
under the arms of participants, pulling 
everyone elsewithhim, the dancers were 
reduced to tangles.
I like the medieval arts and sciences 
and find that opportunities to learn the 
dancing are really good, said Rebecca 
Connor, a junior biology and chemistry 
major and the clubs CMU president.
The demonstration provided SCA 
members with a chance to publicize their 
hard work and research.
[The demonstration] kept people 
aware that were on campus and that we 
do stuff, said Connor. It also gave mem
bers of the CMU community a rare op
portunity to travel back in time and to 
imagine, for just a brief instant, that 
they were part of the medieval era.
SCA dances on Midway
aiacey letziarr/ i arcan rnoio oian 
Students chill out on couches brought forth from houses on Roselawn Terrace.
By ENA KHAN
Tartan Managing Editor
The event combined all the ingredi
ents for a great outdoor party: 
food, music, friends, and a sunny sky. 
It was the third annual Roselawn 
block party, held last Saturday after
noon, and it brought together people 
from all over campus to celebrate Car
nival weekend.
Approximately 400 people attended 
the event during the afternoon. The 
majority of the guests were students 
who live in the Roselawn Terrace area.
It was a nice place to chill out with 
friends. It doesnt happen very often 
at CMU, said Jeff Clark, a graduate 
student in electrical and computer 
engineering.
We had a good time grilling, and we 
pulled our couches out on the street, 
said George Blaha, a senior mechanical 
engineering major.
Many people came to hear the differ
ent bands play. Four local groups, in
cluding The Awakening Ritual and Glis
ter, played alternative rock music for 
the duration of the party. The Awaken
ing Ritual was my favorite band. Glister 
had a female lead singer, and she had a 
great voice. The bands wanted to get 
their names out there, said Blaha.
The party was sponsored in part by 
Sigma Phi Epsilon (Sig Ep), who pro
vided the food, and Student Dormitory 
Council, who provided the funding for 
the bands. Erik Dykema, a sophomore 
ECE major and brother in Sig Ep, orga
nized the event and invited the bands.
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff 
An outdoor grill provides food for those 
attending last Saturdays block party.
Everyone else is too busy to organize 
it, and Im the youngest guy in the 
house, so I took care of everything, 
said Dykema.
Carnival weekend provided the stu
dents in Roselawn the opportunity to 
host a fun event for the campus commu
nity. I think its important to hold an 
event like this because there arent a 
whole lot of events in the Roselawn area, 
said Dykema.

---------------------------------------------------

SHADYI SEPet HYr sIsYrt
1. Ken Payson, president of the CMU Jug
gling Club, performs on Midway.
Michelle Ungerer/Tartan Photo Staff
2. King of Hill 1, Phi Kaps Dave Dybes, 
pushes Celerity to Michael Currie. 
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
3. A student skates on a ramp created by 
Friends of the Board, a Blitz Booth group. 
Hillary Carey/Tartan Photo Staff
4. SDCs Mike Walsh pushes Sambvca up
Hill 4 to Matthew Cuccaro on Hill 5.
Anna Fortin/Tartan Photo Staff
5. Dave Atkinson and Thomas Mcelroy dual 
in Weigand Gym last Saturday afternoon.
Chris Cannon/Tartan Contributing Editor
6. The brothers of SAE recreated the legendary 
Trojan horse for their booth.
Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager
7. Rebecca Conner plays during opening ceremo
nies. Brian Smith/Tartan Sports Co-Editor
8. Eric Stever pushes Takoohi for i 
Anna Fortin/Tartan Photo Staff
9. Local bands performed during 
Block Party last Saturday afternoc 
Stacy Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff
10. A young girl enjoys the Midwa) 
Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan Darkro
11. Spirit members celebrate at-tl 
ceremony after winning a Sweeps! 
Brian Smith/Tartan Sports Co-Edi
photo spread by Anthony Cii

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

L8 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 1998
Innovative Explosion blows CMU audience away
missed the show better have 
been on their deathbeds, be
cause it was a night of good old 
rock n roll.
Their almost two-hour set in
cluded several of their betterBy RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Contributing Editor
If Elvis were alive today lis 
tening to punk records while 
slamming a six-pack of beer he 
yvould probably sound a whole lot known ditties, like Bellbottoms, 
like Jon Spencer Blues Explosion Flavor, and the song they made 
did last Saturday. into a video, Wail. Their two
As the Carnival headliner this guitar and drums setup was more 
year, Blues Explosion rocked all than enough to rock the house, 
who came to see them perform with Spencer playing deep and 
on the main stage. People who crunchy and guitarist Judah
Bauer playing high and 
crunchy while Russell 
Simins beat them drums.
At several points in the 
show, Spencer aban
doned his guitar to play 
with his theremin, an 
obscure instrument usu
ally relegated to B hor
ror movies. It produces 
notes depending on how 
far away the players 
hand is from it. He was a 
man possessed on the 
thermin, wiggling his 
hand in front of it to pro
duce sounds that surely 
made every dog in the 
area cringe.
While the crowd wasnt 
doingjustice to the band, 
the band was definitely 
doing justice to the
crowd. Spencer went full 
Brian smlth/lartan sports co-tdltor bore the whole nig>lt|
Judah Bauer plays guitar for the Explosion, jumpingup on the speakBrian Smith/Tartan Sports Co-Editor 
Students from CMU and nearby schools cheer for Jon Spencers antics.
ers to shout his message of groove 
to the crowd. He stomped, and he 
danced, and he drew the crowd 
into his little world, however re
luctant they may have been.
At one point early in the show, 
he stopped the band in the middle 
of a song and addressed the 
crowd. I just had to stop, you see 
people, because I feel so good. I 
feel so good tonight, that I want 
to give you people the best show 
possible. So he and Bauer ad
justed themselves and their gui
tars until Spencer approached 
the mike again. Dynamite! he 
screamed, and they were back 
on the soul train.
After about an hour, the band 
walked off the stage, apparently 
finished. But the crowd wasnt 
havin it. The entire audience 
stayed, some clapping, some yell
ing and screaming in a plea for 
the band to return.
In a few minutes, they did, and 
launched into a syrupy, groovy 
little rockabilly number that 
smacked of hot and lazy Texas 
nights that New York-born Spen
cer captured with ease.
Spencer tried to stir the some
what listless crowd with nu
merous call-and-response por
tions, where Spencer asked the 
crowd to shout Yeah! after he 
said it.
During the encore, he showed 
that he hadnt lost his 
pigfucker roots from his days 
in the punk band Pussy Ga
lore: Now I want you people to 
repeat after me: FUCK! The 
crowd was more than happy to 
oblige his twisted desires.
In another bit of audience par
ticipation, he asked everyone to 
put their hands in the air. Once 
he had most of the audience wav
ing their hands, he delivered an
other request. Now kiss my ass, 
cause your girlfriend still wants 
me more.
This isnt to say that the whole 
crowd was dead on its feet. There 
were plenty of people in the front
Jon Spencer sings during last Saturdays concert. The Blues Explosion filled the Mall with a dynamite
of the crowd dancing to the mu
sic, and a few isolated pockets of 
people who absolutely got jiggy 
with it. But I wonder how anyone 
whos got the flavor could stand 
around, not at least shaking their 
booty just a little bit.
If this doesnt prove to you 
that Blues Explosion rocked, I 
present to you exhibit A. Dur
ing the encore, Spencer began 
doing the Blues is number one 
bit from Flavor. He paused, 
then said, I dont play the
blues. He took a breath 
ticipation. I play ROCK 
ROLL! Spencer then 
his guitar, proving 
he may be a rock n roll 
cian, the Blues (Explosion) 
still number one.
A Capella groups gather for festival
By JOSEPH H. CARRIER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
I was walking down Midway on 
Saturday afternoon when I heard 
music. It wasnt just any music, either. 
It wasnt a DJ playing Top 40, and it 
certainly wasnt the Jon Spencer Blues 
Explosion distorting guitar chords. The 
music was nothing but voices, blended 
together in finely-honed harmonies. 
Thats when I knew Woodstockapella 
98 had begun.
A capella is vocal music with no instru
mental accompaniment. Woodstockapella 
!98 is the first event held to bring together 
all of CMUs a capella groups. The most 
widely-known group, the Originals, 
performed first. When they started to sing,
the crowd gave loud applause when they 
heard a beat box, a la The Fat Boys in the 
chorus of Istanbul by They Might 
be Giants.
Then In Acchord sang. The high point 
of their set was the performance of One 
More Minute,  a Weird A1Yankovie song 
which was led in this case by John Sibley, 
a senior drama major.
Another CMU group, Voce, was next. 
They began their set with The Lion 
Sleeps Tonight, a favorite from the 50s 
and ended it with a soulful ballad with a 
bit of a gospel touch.
After Voce came The Gin and Tonics, 
who heard of Woodstockapella 98 
through email from a CMU student 
who saw them perform at an earlier 
event. They got the crowd clapping
during an interpretation of Stairwajj 
to Heaven by Led Zeppelin.
Last were the CMU Sound Bytes. Thd 
crowd seemed impressed with the group9; 
replication of all the musical qualities 
of songs like Becks Where Its Atj 
and EnVogues Youre Never Gonna 
Get It. For example, sophomore direct-j 
ing major Russell Kaplan used a hand-* 
held voice distorter to imitate th^ 
electronic sound Becks voice has ir^ 
the chorus of Where Its At.
As the first gathering of CMUs a capellgj 
groups, Woodstockapella 98 was a 
success. Against the backdrop of the otheil 
musical events at Carnival, like thd 
Dharma Sons and the Boilermakeii 
Jazz Band, Woodstockapella 98 complei 
mented the Midway nicely.Jazz combo entertains with classic^
By DAVID ELMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
If I hadnt known better, I would 
have guessed that the Midway had 
been briefly transported to New Or
leans on Saturday. Pittsburghs own 
Boilermaker Jazz Band played a num
ber of tunes in the 20s style, sometimes 
accompanied by singing from one of the 
band members. They played for about 
an hour and a half, in shirts and ties. 
The crowd was small, either because of 
the relatively early performance, the 
fact that it was a morning after a Car
nival evening, or both. Nevertheless, 
this didnt stop the band from encour
aging the audience to dance, and by the 
end, at least one family was jumping 
and spinning in the tent.
Trimmed down to five people from the 
usual seven, everyone in 
the band got a chance 
to show off their tal
ents in one way or 
another. In addition 
to the singing of clari
netist, band leader, 
and CMU alum Paul 
Cosentino, there 
were solos from tuba 
player Andrew 
Cosentino and drumnist Nelson Harrison and banjo playei 
Dan Davisson even got to show off theii 
own vocal stylings on a couple of songs 
The songs themselves varied from re 
laxing to lively, but always seemed to be 
light. Whos Sorry Now? was buoyeci 
by playful piano, soft cymbals, and 
cowbells. A more lazy Louis 
Armstrong tune gave Harrison 
most of the attention as he faith-j 
fully reproduced Armstrongs voice j 
During their set, the group evert 
invited an old classmate to take 4 
turn on the drums. Clearly they 
enjoyed themselves, and by the 
end of the performance, they hac|
mer Rich Strong. Pia- Afuma Porter/Tartan Junior Staff gained a few new fans.
Upbeat band energizes scarce Carnival crowd
By ANNE RAY
Tartan Diversions Editor
The Dharma Sons set was sched
uled to start at 7 pm. At 7:40 pm last 
Friday night, the Dharma Sons drum
mer, Bill Wamick, took the stage and 
said One ... two ... check. Testing drum 
mike, check, testing.
; According to Carnival 
Entertainment Co-Chair 
Amy Ondos, a senior chemical engineering major, the 
band arrived over an hour 
late. In the interim, mem
bers of Carnival security 
guarded the edge of the 
Midway Tent, keeping concert-goers from entering.
Some stood and watched 
from the outside, while lead 
singer Rob Bayne tested 
his voice on the sound sys
tem. Most just drifted away 
from the event.
Subsequently, the au
dience for the Dharma Sons set was 
sparse. When the Pittsburgh-based 
;band finally started playing, though, 
their intense, high-energy rock got the 
crowd moving.
Every member of the Dharma Sons 
isings, not usually a characteristic of 
such a guitar-driven band. Their sound 
is quick and gritty, heavy on the cym
bals and staccato riffs. Oftentimes, the
melodies lie in the bass, and bassist 
Matt Dudek has enough energy to 
carry the other members, when it 
was needed. But during this set, all 
the musicians bounced around the 
stage, and Baynes facial expressions 
were enough to show how much this 
band likes to play  he laughed and
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff
sneered at the same time, and made 
Jon Spencer look a little tame.
Despite the late start, an innovative 
sound and a lot of energy made the 
Dharma Sons performance enjoyable 
for everybody who went. The Dharma 
Sons show was just one example of 
the vibe that surrounded Carnival 
weekend  fun, energetic, and just a 
little bit insane.
The Dharma Sons played songs from their album Fit.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 1998L9
T
Pipers launch Carnival
Hillary Carey/Tartan Photo Staff
Members of the CMU Pipe and Drum Band march onto Midway last Thursday.
By ENA KHAN
Tartan Managing Editor
The Carnegie Mellon University Pipe 
and Drums led the campus commu
nity into a weekend of Midway mad
ness with the traditional sounds of 
pipers and drummers during the Car
nival opening ceremonies last Thurs
day afternoon. The band marched 
through the midway entrance after 
CMU President Cohon performed the 
ribbon cutting ceremony.
It was just cool being the first one 
through the gates, said Kathleen 
Gallagher, a member of the Pipeband 
and a senior materials science and 
engineering major. The audience 
members followed the band into the
Midway for their first look at the com
pleted booths and carnival rides.
Opening ceremonies for Carnival is 
always fun. We paraded through. We 
went to the Midway stage and played 
. for another half an hour for a small 
crowd, said Kirstin Purdy, a first
time performer with the Pipeband and 
a junior physics major.
The Band was comprised of nine pip
ers and four drummers, playing under 
the leadership of Alexander Gillies, the 
Universitys director of piping. Gillies is 
a real showman. Its very dramatic when 
he tells us to start [the performance], 
said Gallagher. The band performed 
Scotland the Brave and Fourty-Sec
ond Highlanders, the traditional pieces 
played at most parades and CMU events.
Bands blend funk on CFA lawn
By ANDY FRANCIS
Tartan Staffwriter
Taking a break from the standard 
guitar, bass, and drums outfits that gen
erally populate festivals like our Carni
val, the Activities Board offered a change 
of pace last Saturday afternoon on the 
CFA lawn. Playing before the Jon Spen
cer Blues Explosions set, mellow jazz 
act Charlie Hunter and Pound for Pound 
and jazz-funk band Galactic took the 
stage. While the two bands were musi
cally quite separate, both jammed ex
tensively and created a laid-back, enjoy
able atmosphere for all present.
Charlie Hunter & Pound for Pound 
was the first to peddle his wares, albeit 
an hour later than scheduled. He, along 
with a vibraphonist (a vibraphone is like 
a marimba, made of metal instead of 
wood) and a drummer, jumped right into 
the free-form jazz that constituted pretty 
much the entire show. While the side 
musicians were quite good with their 
respective instruments, Hunters talent 
was even more remarkable. Rather than 
having a guitarist and a bassist, Hunter 
elected to handle both duties himself, 
with an eight string guitar/bass. The 
band wandered and noodled through 
their low-key instrumental tunes, pep
pering each song with plenty of solo 
performances. Charlie Hunter & Pound
for Pound obviously enjoyed playing  
it was fun to watch the members play 
off each other as their songs shifted 
from lounge to swing to pretty much 
whatever the band felt like.
While the next act, New Orleansbased Galactic, could probably be clas
sified as jazz right next to Charlie 
Hunter, they brought an entirely differ
ent feel to the CFA lawn stage. Another 
instrumental group, Galactic consisted 
of a bassist, guitarist, drummer, saxo
phonist, and organist. In contrast to 
Hunters band, Galactic featured some 
rock n roll and plenty of funk to go 
along with their jazz. They had more 
concrete melodies and song structures, 
but still left plenty of room for jamming. 
Galactic was particularly adept at set
ting down a bass line, then piling on 
more sounds, melodies, and intensity to 
create something really enjoyable. They 
also had a knack for changing tempos, 
from slow grooves to high-speed riffing. 
Midway through their concert, they 
brought out a blues singer to perform 
with them. This proved less effective 
than their instrumental experiments  
the singer never really integrated him
self with the music, and Id much rather 
hear the wide range of sounds created by 
the bands organist or the clever hooks 
played by the guitarist.
Both Charlie Hunter & Pound for Pound
LIsette Mlller-Dlxon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Charlie Hunter plays both bass and guitar.
and Galactic put on interesting shows! 
Saturday. While neither act had much' 
stage personality, their music kept listen-' 
ers engaged and certainly entertained. I. 
think also that some of the fans present! 
gained a measure of appreciation for jazz' 
music and were able to see some of the 
different directions it can take. This;; 
coupled with the fun-loving atmosphere 
the groups created, made them a welcomeaddition to this years Carnival.
Rock concert showcases upbeat music
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
The Ike McCoy Band, an up-and-coming local act, performed last Friday.
By ANDY FRANCIS
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnival, if nothing else, is an opportu
nity for Carnegie Mellon students to for
get about school and just have some fun. 
Local alt-rockers Ike McCoy Band, who 
played on the Carnival Main Stage last 
Friday night, adopted that same attitude 
for their energy-filled, up-tempo set. Lay
ing down bouncy, funk-inflected grooves, 
the Ike McCoy Band churned out an en
gaging lineup of songs, many from their 
latest release, Made Glorious Summer.
Without much fanfare, and without 
much of an audience either, the Ike 
McCoy Band jumped right into what 
would prove to be some of the best tunes 
of the evening. They wasted no time in 
demonstrating their musical proficiency.
The drummer and bass player provided a 
solid foundation with quick, precise play
ing, while the guitarist added some extra 
punch to the music. Lead singer Jamie 
Bernarding however, seemed to be there 
just so the band had someone to sing. He 
lacked stage persona and was somewhat 
unintelligible.
The beginning of the concert was clearly 
its highlight  not only did the band seem 
to concentrate its strongest tracks early on, 
but their playing seemed much more fo
cused. The opened with a blitz of songs, not 
pausing to name the tunes or let the audi
ence catch their breath.
As the show moved on, more people gath
ered under the tent to check out Ike McCoy 
Bands show. Occasionally the bands funkrock lost a step or two, but they had quite a 
few good moments. From time to time, their
sound seemed to lose a step, and became 
less than compelling. A highlight came when 
they played perhaps their best track, Brand 
New Heavy, followed by a cover of an old 
Cure song. (Incidentally, they named Cure 
frontman Robert Smith in another song.) 
Despite these direct references to the Cure,; 
Ike McCoys music seemed to have little ii$ 
common with them; their music was far too, 
upbeat for any such comparisons.
As for their name, none of the members is! 
named Ike McCoy, and none of them knows 
of anyone named Ike McCoy, either.
The band put on quite a show  though 
perhaps with a greater audience the con-! 
cert would have had even more intensity.' 
Nevertheless, expect to see Ike McCoy in 
the future  a local band on the rise never 
goes too long between gigs, and itll be well 
worth your while to check them out.
WHEN FINALS ARE OVER.
THE CRAMMING BEGINS.
Save time and energy. Bring everything 
down to Mail Boxes Etc* and let us pack 
it all up and ship it home.
And remember that when it comes to packing 
and shipping unusual items, no one is more 
knowledgeable than your nearby MBE.
UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet
MAIL BOXES ETC.'
Franchises Independently Owned and Opeiated
687-6100
414 S. Craig St. 
(near Forbes Ave. & 
Carnegie Museum) 
*Free Pick-up *
1993 Mail Boxes Etc.
Are you...
... thinking about law school, 
and law as a career, or
... a veteran debater interested in 
similar activity at college level, or
... interested in honing your 
public speaking skills?
Undergraduate 
Mock Trial Team
Then consider joining Carnegie Mellons Undergraduate Mock Trial Team.
The Undergraduate Mock Trial Team is open to all CMU undergraduates (not 
just members of the Prelaw Society). CMU will host a mock trial tournament 
on November 14, 1998.
If interested in the tournament, consider the following Fall 1998 course: 66- 
182, Topics in Law, 6 units, Pass/Fail, WF, 3:30-4:20 pm. This course is 
essentially a professional writing/public speaking/oral argument course, couched 
in a legal/courtroom context. Its theoretical focus is on the structure and rules 
of U.S. court procedure. The course has no prerequisites, and is open to any 
undergraduate.
A hypothetical case will be a primary focus of the course, and will also be the 
case argued at the November 1998 tournament. However, enrollment in the 
course will not require participation in the mock trial tournament; nor will 
participation in the tournament require enrollment in the course.
Register in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161.

---------------------------------------------------

iloThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 1998
Y
dialup
Predictable stand-up routine fails to amuse
By DAN ARP
\Tartan Contributing Editor
)l This isnt going to be any worse 
,than a Jerry Springer show, prom4sed Tammy Pescatelli at the top of 
/her half-hour stand-up routine. And 
.she was right: It was no worse, no 
better. It was what youd expect, as 
-predictable as the breakout of a Jerry 
Springer brawl.
-; This isnt to say Pescatelli  who 
'opened for Darrel Hammond Satur
day night before a capacity audience 
in the main tent  didnt get laughs. 
?he is obviously a diligent student of 
^fand-up  shes paid her dues in the 
.fiomedy club circuit  and does it as well 
c3S most of the wry, smirking comics of 
che set-em-up-and-knock-em-down 
.school. And the topics she picked were 
.guaranteed laugh-grabbers: Sicilians, 
Baywatch, the Amish, and Monica 
Lewinsky (If youre going to mess 
-around, do it with someone whos at 
east attractive. Make us proud to be 
Americans. JFK had Marilyn Monroe; 
Clintons got Marilyn Manson). 
i Pescatelli also showed her ability to 
think on her feet. When she asked if 
_ anyone in the audience was from West 
^Virginia, a student screamed immedi
ately and far too enthusiastically, 
Yeeeaaaah! Without missing a beat, 
-Pescatelli asked, Apparently theres no 
i good Hee-Haw on for you tonight? and 
i the audience erupted into laughter.
> All of this made for an entertaining 
i show, but one you felt like youd seen 
\ before about a thousand times. PredictJ ably, her Sicilian heritage prompted
Erica Yamada/Tartan Photo Staff 
Pescatelli used textbook-style jokes.
Pescatelli to tell Mafia jokes. And her 
segues were straight out of a stand-up 
textbook (These are wild, wild times 
we live in, Im telling you. What is the 
matter with people, -anyway?). She 
also managed to make the audience 
cringe a couple of times with rather 
gross humor, most notably when she 
said she liked to throw skittles into the 
exposed buttcracks of bowlers. 
Punchline? The bowler goes home later 
and sees the rainbow of colors: Geez, 
honey, Ive got a fungus.
Responding to the groans, Pescatelli 
said, If I offend anybody, I dont give 
a shit, much like Jerry Springer. As 
with Springer, there is nothing novel 
or illuminating about her offensive
ness. Theres not even a personality to 
it; Pescatellis offensive humor is ge
neric and, for that reason, not truly 
daring or risky at all. Its rather safe. 
Its good for a laugh, a cheap laugh. A 
laugh youve laughed before and will 
probably laugh again, at all the pre
scribed moments, the next time you 
set foot in a comedy club.
Comedian impresses students
By RYAN D. SCHILLING
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Darrel Hammond pretended that 
he was concerned when he put his 
first of three cigarette butts out on the 
stage, saying, I might get in trouble. 
But if Hammond was worried about 
getting in trouble, he wouldnt have the 
job he does today.
Hammond, who performed last Satur
day night in a packed Midway tent, is in 
the midst of his third season on Satur
day Night Live. His stand-up perfor
mance catered to the college crowd, talk
ing mostly about politics, sex, women, 
and a group of obnoxious females stand
ing at the side of the tent. He cracked 
several impromptu jokes at the girls 
expense. They, among other things, des
perately wanted to hear Hammond say 
juvenile phrases like, Lets get wicky. 
The groups ringleader, Jackie, pleaded 
with Hammond to, raise the roof, ap
parently meaning to put his hands in 
the air and wave them around as if he 
just didnt care. Hammond appeased 
them but got the audience laughing with 
his heavy sarcasm about the matter.
Hammond has a different style from 
most stand-up coihedians. Instead of hit
ting a chord with a topic and sticking 
with it, Hammond would jump from topic 
to topic, and then come back to them 
later. He kept the audience on its toes for 
most of his hour-long performance. He 
could be speaking one minute about the 
unique way Southern women swear and 
then jump straight into explaining why 
love would be so much simpler if life were 
like a Broadway show. He said that on 
Broadway, you know youre in love be
cause you start singing about it.
Hammonds impres
sions have popularized 
him on Saturday Night 
Live, and he has been 
lauded for their accu
racy and range, from 
Bill Clinton to Ted 
Koppell, or from Eddie 
Murphy to Ross Perot.
He has even done his 
Clinton impression 
during a surprise ap
pearance with the 
President himself at a 
Washington Press 
Corps event. His deadon impressions were on 
display Saturday night, 
arousing hearty laugh
ter from the audience 
each time.
Hammond, a Mel
bourne, Florida native, 
spent a good deal of time talking about 
Southerners, generally a safe topic in 
these parts. The contrast between 
Hammonds black suit and the Southern 
accent pouring from his mouth as he 
imitated his father would have been 
funny enough. But then he pretended to 
be his father reacting to some imaginary 
sorority girl who got offended by 
his staring at her cleavage. Im a fisher
man, Hammond said in his fathers 
voice. And when I throw a baited line 
into the water, do I yell, Damn you, 
you fish! All you think about is food! 
The analogy elicited a loud chorus 
of laughter.
Whenever he seemed at an impasse, 
Hammond would ask the crowd for sug
gestions. When he got a suggestion, 
Hammond had an interesting way of
Brian Smith/Tartan Sports Co-EtJitor 
Darrel Hammond is a performer on Saturday Night Live.
avoiding it. Hed say, Yes, lets talk 
about Florida ... And then hed go into 
one of his other routines. It seemed, he 
just needed those few seconds to come 
up with the appropriate routine.
The University of Florida graduate of
ten spoke of his ex-wife and her similarity 
to an auctioneer when she got angry. 
Only one person knows the rules, he 
said. And since theres just two people on 
the rules committee, you know it isnt 
you. So when you break a rule, he ex
plained, she begins to sound like the auc
tioneer. Then he displayed his incredible 
vocal talents, spewing out words so quickly 
that one could barely understand him.
Hammond did not disappoint  -he 
kept the audience laughing for most of 
the hour, so he did his job. And he didnt 
get in trouble.
Performers boast acts that foster audience participation
; By DAVID ELMAN
| Tartan Staffwriter
J. There was a slight chill in the 
I air Thursday night, but inside 
t the tent on Midway, it was nice 
tand warm. Comedian Gary 
t Greenberg and ventriloquist 
i Lynn Trefzger entertained the 
 audience for two hours with 
 jokes about sex, alcohol, and
carrots, as well as an assembly 
of puppet personas.
Greenberg at first looked a bit 
high-strung, but soon settled into 
his routine. Taking the easy path 
 about commenting on Carni
val and the audience  he segued 
smoothly into recounting his own 
college experiences at Tufts. Af
ter he learned about Scottie Dog 
and the Tartans, he was quick to
point out that his own alma 
maters teams are the Jumbos  
a rather mysterious mascot eas
ily exploited in a standup act.
Interaction with the audience 
was one of his strongest points; 
he got one couple to kiss and 
transmitted telepathic jokes to 
certain crowd members. During 
his people trapped under a 
crane impressions, he repeatAPARTMENTS AVAILABLE 
IN THE OAKLAND AREA
Efficiency,
1, 2, & 3 Bedroom Apartments
 Furnished
 Laundry Facilities
 WAV Carpeting
 Security Building
 Parking
H&P
Real Estate 
682-1519
7anv5pm, Monday thru 
Saturday
edly tried to make the entire 
audience laugh, but gave up 
when he ran out of jokes. He also 
parlayed the outbursts of cer
tain observers into more jokes; 
one of these metamorphosed 
from Warhol and his 15 minutes 
of fame to the crane segment.
Greenberg kept the crowd 
laughing through the rest of 
his act, which included such 
diverse targets as the Roy 
Rogers fast food chain and its 
hamburger wrappers, tips for 
picking up women, the perils of 
leaving answering machine 
messages, and nature specials 
about the wild carrot.
After a brief setup period, ven
triloquist Lynn Trefzger and her 
first puppet, Camelot, appeared. 
A camel who kept Jack Daniels in 
his hump and had a habit of drop
ping syllables, Camelots striking 
personality set the standard for 
the rest of the performance. Un
fortunately, much of the act relied 
on the same jokes and character 
traits to amuse the audience. Each 
sketch also went on too long; often 
the same words were dwelt on 
long enough to become grating.
One interesting 
part of the evening 
came when a few 
audience mem
bers'became dum
mies. Trefzger 
brought them 
onstage, and they 
opened their 
mouths when she 
tapped them on 
the back. Surpris
ingly, their facial 
features and 
mouth movements 
closely matched 
the words they 
were speaking, a 
sign of either her 
back-tapping 
skills or the quick
ness with which 
the dummies 
picked up the tone 
of their words.
Here, too, the act 
lingered on one TrefzSers act 
dummys repeated phrase, some
thing that lessened the impact of 
the performance.
Overall, however, those who 
saw either of the acts on Thursat. *H|
1I 
1 L '
- v ^ V -- .;
 % v j&S
te 1
li
fe  .. i:lilt
SHI
n an ..
Brian Smith/Tartan Sports Co-Editor 
used this puppet and volunteers.
day in the tent, probably came 
away feeling satisfied. What bet
ter way is there to start a Carni
val then with a little' humor to' 
mend stress-shattered nerves?
Culture and Art Enthusiasts
We are looking for reliable articulate unique individuals to raise 
funds by phone for many prestigious non-profit organizations. 
No cold calls. Mostly Membership Renewals. Knowledge of PBS 
helpful. Excellent earning potential/bonuses/incentives. Great
atmosphere.
Squirrel Hill location.
Day/Eve hours up to 40 per week.
Call (412) 521-3130.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  20 April 1998Lll
ClP HYr alHNH
flay poses challenge to troupe
ByMARSHALL WARFIELD
!Dossier Literary Editor
A
ssassins is one of Sondheims most 
unpopular musicals. Songs about 
killing presidents dont exactly cause the 
public to rush out and buy tickets, even if 
'it is tax season, but Jeremy Lewit, director and senior philosophy major, and 
Darren Mauro, musical director and seriior computer science major, made the 
play leap off the stage with a good blend 
of comedy and farce that managed to 
pack the house. After a month 
;of rehearsal, and two weeks of 
;six to eight hour days, the cast 
;6f Scotch n Sodas Assassins 
!daw their hard work payoff in 
the most engaging musical comledjLlve ever seen.
The biggest challenge was to 
no> typecast people. I tried to
pack the stage with as much ________
charisma as I could, said Lewit.
, Assassins was a risky musical for 
Scotch n Soda to perform during Carni
val: Typically, their Carnival play is a 
straight-up, popular musical that many 
have seen. By performingAssassircs and 
doing it well, Lewit has hopefully opened 
new doors for Scotch n Soda.
Assassins is the only musical that Id 
-like to direct. Its not a showy musical. 
Its:not a dancy musical. It was created 
for an audience that likes theater, and I 
-think thats the better audience to go 
for,* said Lewit.
The play does not have a traditional Lou Bojarski played Samuel Byck, the 
plot but instead serves as a landscape on would-be assassin who attempted to hiwhich the assassins of American history jack and crash a jetliner into the White
convene and converse. The characters 
include those who attempted to kill Ameri
can presidents, such as the Manson 
women, Samuel Byck, Guiseppe Zangara, 
and John Hinckley, as well as though 
who succeeded, like John Wilkes Booth,- 
Charles Giteau, Leon Czolgosz, and fiHouse to kill Richard Nixon. It was fun, 
but it was tough not to play the stereo
typical crazy, said Bojarski.
It was obvious that a lot of effort went 
into production, from the technical direc
tion by sophomore computer science ma
jor Larry Greenfield. Musicals are not
nally, in a climatic scene, Lee Harvey my bag, but the creative lyrics and wellOswald. Holding all of this together is an written score made Assassins my favoromnipresent Balladeer, played by senior ite musical  even above Into the Woods.
Mauros musical direction[A play thats] a little more out 
of the mainstream is always a 
little more interesting. 
 Lou Bajorski 
Assassins cast member
history major Kim Sims, whosings songs 
about each of the assassins. Her charac
ter had to be redesigned because it was 
originally written for a man.
The casts ability to communicate across 
time and cultures is one of the weirder 
aspects of the play, but they pulled it off 
excellently. Sophomore music major Jon 
Portera led the show as John Wilkes Booth, 
and strong performances were given by all 
the cast members. It was a very educa
tional experience. The research [for John 
Wilkes Booth] was fascinating, saidPortera.
added even more energy to 
the cast.
There are many different 
styles of music in the show, 
from Hail to the Chief, to tunes 
from throughout Americas 
past. It was very challenging, 
but Im grateful to all the 
musicians who put in the long 
hours, said Mauro.
More plays and musicals that walk 
the line of comedy and disturbing the
ater should be performed by Scotch n 
Soda. Bajorski summed it up best when 
he said, [A play thats] a little more out 
of the mainstream is always a little 
more interesting. Assassins obviously 
demonstrated that Scotch n Soda has 
the talent to continue to perform these 
types of pieces.
[Ed. Note: Jeremy Lewit is a Tartan 
Staffwriter.J
Art exhibits showcase students nostalgia
By HEATHER DENYER
Tartan Staffwriter
Since Carnival weekend tradition
ally reels in alumni, this year 
campus organizations worked to enter
tain the graduates of Carnegie Mellon 
through a series of art exhibits. The 
University Center Gallery, the Alumni 
House, and the Class of93 hosted three 
different shows, all of which focused on 
old and new traditions at CMU.
T-shirts from classes as far back as 
75 hung in the University Center gal
lery. This exhibit showcased the cre
ativity and attitudes of past classes. 
The student-designed shirts repre
sented every group and sorority and 
even WRCT, recording events such as 
a Pointer Sisters concert and Sex Week. 
Photographs from earlier Buggy races 
and Carnival games such as Plank 
Jousting also brought a new perspec
tive to the Carnival. Signs in the gal
lery explained past traditions and the 
creation of a new one: The t-shirts will 
be made into a tapestry to be hung in 
the University Center.
The Alumni House is hosting an ex
hibit of students work from their study 
abroad excursions until April 22. Al
though not planned deliberately for 
Carnival weekend, the students who 
submitted the photographs and
sketches expressing their experiences 
abroad hoped that students and alumni 
would stop by on their way to Midway. In 
sharing their memories and feelings, the 
artists hoped to enlighten other student's 
and to inspire them to consider spending 
a year in a foreign country. The work 
reflects monumental sights with each 
individuals touch through writings and 
scale models and even a computer pro
gram about life abroad. According to study 
abroad advisor Eva Mergner, the collec
tion expresses the impact of the students 
experiences abroad.
The class of 93 reunited for the first 
time at this years Carnival. The alumni 
committee along with Graham Gibby, the 
93 class representative, organized a lun
cheon in Schatz dining room with a long 
table of arts and crafts. The Immediate 
Art Exhibit provided the returning class
mates a creative outlet, supplying yam, 
balloons, markers, clay, and pipe clean
ers, along with a pleasant atmosphere.'
According to Gibby, he uses this activ
ity working with his Cub Scouts arid 
thought it would be fun and relaxing for 
his classmates. When you come back 
for a reunion, [this activity] gives you a 
reason to stick around, said Gibby.
Certainly, these creative opportuni
ties provided as many diverse activities 
and a great deal of fun for the alumni as 
well as for the students of CMU.
STA Travel specializes 
in LOW-COST travel 
for students.
 Great Student Airfares 
 Tours for Ybung Travelers 
 Budget Hotels 
.Eurall & Rail Passes 
 Work Abroad In Britain 
 Travel Insurance 
 International Student ID Card 
 Around the WorldON THE F L Y
STA TRAVEL...
THE WORLD'S 
LARGEST STUDENT 
TRAVEL ORGANIZATION.
(800) 777-0112STA TRAVELWeve been there.
BOOK YOUR TICKET ONLINE A T5
-TRAVEL.COM
Day to Celebrate One Earth??Why Not a Whole Month?!!
/
Earth Day!
Jared Cohort
President, Carnegie Mellon
"AchievingSustainability"
Margaret Morrison 103 
4:30-5:30 pm with Reception to 
follow
5:30 pm Tree Planting 
Ceremony
Sidewalk between UC and CFA
o
Wednesday April 22. 4:30-6:00 pm
Partially Funded by your Stud&ni Aclivltles Fee.
#
\
dmrdo ve OUT OMTHtMVEB.
www.ford.coin
%%
$400 CASH BONUStoward purchase or lease*
1998 Ford Escort
You've hit the books. Now it's time to hit the road. Ford can help. College seniors 
and grad students get $400 cash back* toward the purchase or Ford Credit 
Red Carpet Lease of any eligible Ford-or Mercury. It's academic: pocket the cash, 
grab life by the wheel. For more College Graduate Purchase Program info, 
call 1-800-321-1536 or visit the Web atwww.ford.com
fterovr\y
ist graduate with an associates or bachelor's degree between 10/1/96 and 1/5/99 or be currently enrolled in graduate school. e your ne-//vehicle between 1/4/98 and 1/5/99. Some customer and vehicle eligibility restrictions apply. See your dealer (or delails.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Volume 92, Issue 2320 April 1998
1. The Yo-Yo sent riders soaring high 
above booths and crowds. Lisette 
Mlller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom 
Manager
2. An aerial view of campus highlights 
Midway at night.
Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom 
Manager
3. A student tests his speed on the 
inflatable bungee course. Brian 
Smith/Tartan Sports Co-Editor
4.An enthusiastic DU brother cel
ebrates their Booth victory. Anthony 
Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
5. A sister of Kappa shows a young 
girl how to play the Pllnko-style 
game. Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan 
Darkroom Manager
6. Russell Slmins, drummer of The 
Jon Spencer Blues Explosion, rocks 
the Mall. Brian Smith/Tartan Sports 
Co-Editor
7. Students flocked to play Laser Tag 
in Weigand Gymnasium.
Brian Smith/Tartan Sports Co-Editor
8. The Mudge 3B Blitz Booth allowed 
kids to go fishing on Midway. Erica 
Yamada/Tartan Photo Staff
9. The kiddie roller coaster was a 
thrilling ride for youngsters. Stacey 
Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff
10. CMU President Jared Cohon 
cut the ribbon for opening ceremo
nies. Hillary Carey/Tartan Photo 
Staff
11. Leonardos Workshop was a 
masterpiece created by the broth
ers of Phi Kap. Lisette MillerDixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager
photo spread by Anthony Chao/ 
Tartan Photo Editor 
artwork by Mark Adato and James . 
Mojonnier/Tartan Art Co-Editors & 
Afuma Porter/Tartan Junior Staff
D EPRPONT,t hPPaPON
\
\ \
