Inside
................LI 4
.................L9
...................L5
...................L7
Living...........................................................LI
Forum...............................................................6
Sports...............................................................9
Diversions
Hairs the real story 
 see page L72,131! T!ss Ripken bre
(AND COUNTING)
Ripken breaks Gehrig's 
record  see page 12
Living
Diversity and race 
see page LI
Volume 90, Issue 2THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190611 September 1995
Volu meo9 0,Is2 IC U.S. News arsngimMICU rvt
Construction ahead of schedule
Cyberporn study: Researchers past controversial
News Analysis
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Acting News Editor
[Ed. Note: Second in a series]
Marty Rimm has had 15 min
utes of fame several times in his 
life.
As a high school junior, he 
landed on the front page of the 
local paper and had the state leg
islature talking about his exploits.
After high school, he was alleg
edly able to pull the wool over the 
eyes of developer Donald Trump 
and the gambling industry.
At age 30, as an undergraduate 
majoring in electrical and com
puter engineering, he was able to 
drag a reluctant CMU into the 
midst of a debate over pornogra
phy and the Internet.
And for a brief period this sum
mer, he was the darling of edito
rial writers, radio talk-show 
hosts, and conservative activists.
All this fuss came after Rimms 
paper, Marketing Pornography 
on the Information Superhigh
way  funded by CMU Student 
Undergraduate Research Grants
(SURG)  was released in an 
exclusive deal with Time maga
zine and a law journal edited by 
students at Georgetown Univer
sity.
Internet reacts to news of 
study
As word that Rimms study was 
about to be featured in Time 
leaked out in the academic world, 
people in the Internet commu
nity asked for the chance to peer 
review it.
However, Rimms deal with 
Time and the Georgetown Law 
Journal forbid any release of the 
study without his approval. The 
Journal would only release ab
stracts and the studys footnotes.
Rimm has pointed out that the 
study was academically reviewed 
by three legal experts, and their 
comments were published in the 
Journal alongside the study.
Some of the legal experts who 
were consulted, though, were 
shown only excerpts from the 
paper. David Post, a visiting pro
fessor at Georgetown and an ex
pert in Internet law, told The 
Press of Atlantic City that former 
editor-in-chief of the Journal 
came to him last year with tech
nical questions about the study.
But the editor refused to show 
him the paper itself, saying that 
Rimm had forbid it.
Post writes about the rebuff in 
his critique, called Preliminary 
Discussion of Methodological Pe
culiarities in the Rimm Study of 
Pornography on the Information 
Superhighway. 
They were unable [to release a 
copy of the study] because of a 
secrecy agreement they had made 
with Mr. Rimm, he wrote. One 
would have, perhaps, more confi
dence in the results of the Rimm 
study had it been subjected to 
more vigorous peer review.
Post called Rimms decision to 
publish the study in a law journal 
odd, since they dont usually pub
lish scientific or technical papers.
Kathy Ruemmler, current edi
tor-in-chief of the Journal, said 
that type of criticism was unfair. 
She said that the magazine was 
trying to further debate on the 
privacy and free-speech issues 
raised by the study.
We knew that this would be 
controversial. Thats part of what 
academic discourse is supposed 
to produce, Ruemmler said. The 
Journal didnt have the study 
scientifically reviewed because it 
wasnt concerned with the meth
odology behind the study.
And thats just what Rimm, try
ing to avoid a careful examina
tion, was counting on, charge his 
critics.
Please see RIMM, page 5
Faculty Senate votes this week on ban
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Censorship is an issue that has been plaguing 
the CMU campus since late last fall, when a draft 
of Marty Rimms controversial Marketing Por
nography on the Information Superhighway was 
first shown to the University administration.
What began almost a year ago may finally come 
to a close on Thursday, when the Faculty Senate, 
headed by Chair Teddy Seidenfeld, examines 
their proposal for the removal or restriction of 
certain bboards currently carried on the Andrew 
network.
Last year, a committee of students, faculty, and 
staff was appointed by President Robert 
Mehrabian to examine and research the alt. sex/ 
alt.binaries.pictures bboards. That committee, 
headed by Vice Provost Erwin Steinberg, set out 
to decide whether or not Carnegie Mellon should 
allow access to such bboards.
The Faculty Senate will vote on what policy to 
recommend to Mehrabian, but the Senates deci
sion will not be binding.
A group of Staff Council members headed by 
John McDowell, a senior software engineer in 
Computing Services, submitted a final report to 
Mehrabian on June 19. Within this report were 
the findings of the Steinberg committee and rec
ommendations on whether or not to keep free 
access to the bboards in question. These findings 
and recommendations can be found on a variety 
of official.* bboards.
The policy that is set forth is designed to meet
four requirements. First, to keep open a free 
flowing exchange of ideas. Second, to allow 
Carnegie Mellon to operate the Andrew system 
within obscenity guidelines set by Pennsylvania 
law. Third, to keep administrative action to a 
minimum; and finally, to make good use of the 
Universitys computing resources.
I hope to see an open debate among the Fac
ulty Senate ending in a vote on the proposed 
issue, says Seidenfeld, a professor of statistics 
and philosophy.
Debate on the committees recommendations 
is expected to occupy the majority of the Senate 
meeting, aside from some minor business at the 
beginning.
This will be an interesting meeting, said one 
faculty member in computer science. Sparks 
will fly.
Those bboards in the alt.binaries.pictures.* 
tree that are targeted for removal are -.erotica, - 
erotica.bestiality, -erotica.bondage, -erotica.female, -.erotica.male, -.erotica.teen.male, and - 
.tasteless. Alt.sex* and rec.arts.erotica* 
heirarchies are not targeted because they con
tain primarily text.
Steinberg could not be reached for comment 
before presstime.
The Faculty Senate meeting will be held at 
3:30 pm in the Simon Auditorium in GSIA. 
Regular sessions are open to all members of the 
campus community. This includes faculty, staff, 
and students. Although only Senate members 
are permitted to vote, the debate will be open to 
those in attendance.
By JASON TOGYER
| Tartan Acting News Editor
Carnegie Mellons latest report card 
: is in, and in some subjects, the Uni
versity has gone to the head of the 
class.
In U.S. News and World Reports 
\ annual survey of the nations colleges, 
j CMU captured 23rd place  up one 
* notch from last year  but CIT and 
GSIA-really have something, to crow 
about*. :
Thats because CMUs undergradu
ate engineering and Industrial Man| agement programs tied for third place 
in the nation among similar schools.
Im very pleased, said Mark 
Fichman, head of the IM department, 
j I feel lucky that people knew about 
| us, since some of the other schools 
were very large. He said hes particu
larly happy for IM students, faculty, 
and staff.
I think its a result of the reputa
tion of our faculty, and of GSIA, and of 
CMU. You get a halo effect thats 
part of the benefit of being at a good 
university, he said.
Vice President for Enrollment Bill 
Elliott said that he doesnt put much 
emphasis on numbers. Id rather be 
first than 23rd. Id rather be 22nd 
than 23rd. We want to be as strong as 
possible, said Elliott.
Elliott said that if he was ranking 
universities on his own, hed place 
CMU at around 15th in the nation. 
Ive been in this business 30 years, 
and my gut feeling as I look at the list 
is that we should be up around 15th, 
he said.
Carnegie Mellon is in good company 
on the U.S. News list. Harvard is at 
the top, with Princeton and Yale tied 
for second place. Stanford, MIT, Duke, 
Cal Tech, Dartmouth, and Johns 
Hopkins are among the institutions 
that placed higher than CMU, but the 
University beat out the hallowed halls 
of UCLA, Case Western Reserve, Bos
ton College, and Rensselaer.
I think the top 25 schools probably 
have missions and goals that are more 
similar than the schools ranked 50 to 
75, said Elliott.
The magazine polled 2,700 college 
Please see RANKINGS, page 3
By YOSEF BIRNBOIM
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Retail stores, swimming pools, game 
rooms, dining areas. You name it and 
youll find it in the new, as-yet-unnamed 
university center. The massive 240,000- 
square foot building will house every
thing that was in Skibo as well as the 
contents of the present Student Center.
University Architect Paul Tellers said 
the building is slated for completion in 
the fall of 1996, with occupants being 
able to move in on August 1,1996.
The project is a week and a half ahead 
of schedule and has not hit any major 
problems since the beginning of con
struction, said Tom Murphy, director of 
facilities planning and construction.
He said that he was thrilled that 
even after the building opens, it will still 
have 40,000 square feet of unfinished 
basement for future use.
Construction of the still-nameless university center is on time, say officials.
Sneak peak at buildings contents
Murphy provided a detailed descrip
tion of what the building was to look 
like.
The loggia  the long stick of the 
building that runs alongside the Cut  
will house a two-story retail area that 
will be home to an expanded bookstore, 
art store, and Entropy. During daylight 
hours, the retail space will be one large 
area, connected by open stairwells. At 
night, the bookstore will be sealed off by 
a rolling gate.
WRCTs new studios will be located at 
the west end of the loggia in the base
ment.
Continuing down the stick, you have 
the chapel, some ATM machines, offices 
for Student Activities, an information 
desk, and then an exhibition room, said 
Murphy. On the far south end is the 
quiet study area, now called the Alumni 
room, which will have miscellaneous 
items from the past in there.
Scotland Yard, a series of dining and 
meeting rooms, the Presidents Dining
Room, and the Faculty Dining Room will 
be housed on the second floor.
The entire third floor is made up of 
student organization offices. There will 
also be a game room and room for vend
ing machines.
In the main part of the building is the 
auditorium, which seats 450 people, and 
the racquetball courts and gymnasium. 
Opposite the gym are the diving and lap
pools. The dining facilities on the first 
floor open onto the courtyard, the big, 
horseshoe-shaped area facing the tennis 
courts.
On the first floor is a small facility that 
during the day will serve coffee and 
some ethnic foods, and at night will 
become a sandwich shop. On the second 
floor will be the three main cafeterias 
Please see CONSTRUCTION, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

yThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 1995
SUg yddd
Say it aint so: Candlestick Park loses grand old name
SAN FRANCISCO, Sep. 8 (D J)If 
you name it, they will moan.
San Franciscos venerable Candle
stick Park, home to the championship 
Forty-Niners and the less-than-championship Giants, has gone corporate. 
As of today, the Stick will be known 
as 3Com Park.
Thats after 3Com Corp. You know, 
the maker of computer-networking 
gizmos? Yesterday, the citys Parks 
and Recreation Department agreed 
to let 3Com pay $500,000 to have the 
stadium on this citys Candlestick 
Point named after itself for the next 
five months. 3Com proposes to even
tually pay a total of $4 million for the 
same right through 1999, when San 
Francisco hosts the Super Bowl.
City officials, who were looking for 
some way to offset the $26 million it 
will take to spruce up the windblown, 
earthquake-rattled old park are de
lighted with the deal. But the general 
fan reaction seems to be the same one 
the cellar-dwelling Giants have been 
hearing a lot this year: Boo!
The basic complaints: Turning their 
beloved 36-year old ballpark into a 
field of D-RAMs amounts to a sellout, 
and what the heck is 3Com, anyway?
I wonder how much San Francisco 
could earn by changing the name of 
Golden Gate Bridge to McDonalds 
Golden Arches Bridge? says Norris
Large, a San Francisco resident pro
testing the name change at the parks 
department meeting.
Adds Herb Caen, the famed San 
Francisco Chronicle columnist: If 
3Com, whatever that is, is trying to 
win our affection for a piddling $1 
million, it just blew the bundle.
The parks department says letters 
and phone calls have been running 50 
to one against the planned name 
change. Still, city officials note that a 
lot of stadiums are selling their names 
to corporate sponsors these days and 
that the B ay City is getting more money 
on an annual basis than any other 
city, including Denver (Coors Field) 
and Indianapolis (the RCA Dome).
I like the name Candlestick, too, 
says Jack Immendorf, chairman of the 
committee that voted for the name 
change. But we made a commitment 
to the Forty-Niners to fix up the sta
dium for the 1999 Super Bowl, and the 
city has to raise the money somehow.
3Com thinks fans will warm up to 
the new name. Spokesman David 
Abramson says 3Com will soon be a 
household product, like beer. 3Com 
also plans to provide access to the 
World Wide Web through in-park 
kiosks.
Abramson says that even famed 
Wrigley Field in Chicago is named 
after a chewing-gum business.
Cola wars raging in Europe
BUDAPEST, Hungary, Sept. 7 (DJ) 
Sitting at an outdoor cafe overlookingthe Danube in the Hungarian capi
tal, Istvan Fischer breaks into a smile 
as he picks up a glass of Coca-Cola.
I drank my first Coke in 1963, in 
Vienna, and my hands trembled, says 
Mr. Fischer, a 69-year-old pensioner. 
I was afraid because the Commu
nists told us that Coca-Cola was an 
intoxicating potion that left people in 
a stupor.
After just a few years, Coke, Pepsi, 
and a slew of other cola brands can be 
found not only in Budapest and War
saw, but also along the back roads to 
remote Transylvanian towns and se
cluded villages from Bohemia to cen
tral Bulgaria.
Since the collapse of communism in 
1989, the two companies have been 
bent on capturing the markets of East
ern Europe, pouring a total of $2 bil
lion into the region.
The payoff could be huge, officials 
from both companies predict. Like 
China and India, Eastern Europe is a
premier emerging market, they note, 
with more than 300 million consum
ers. Analysts forecast as many as two 
decades of dramatic growth in East
ern Europe before it levels off.
Pepsi was the first to enter the Com
munist world, signing a pioneering 
deal in1972to supply the Soviet Union. 
It used that foothold to expand into 
other East bloc countries.
But the business wasnt a success, 
Pepsi officials say, based as it was on 
agreements in which Pepsi bartered 
its flavor concentrate for Bulgarian 
forklifts or Romanian wine.
Forced to work with state-run bot
tlers, Pepsi also had little control over 
production, quality and supply.
By the time the Berlin Wall fell, 
Pepsi had an operating base, but its 
plants were old, inefficient and statecontrolled. Even worse, Eastern Euro
peans had forgotten it was a western 
product. We were seen as local, as 
part of the past, says a Pepsi spokes
person. Coca-Cola was seen as new 
and Western.
Groups protest WE-CBS merger
WASHINGTON, D.C., Sept. 8 (DJ)  
Two groups asked the Federal Commu
nications Commission (FCC) to block a 
planned takeover of CBS, alleging that 
buyer Westinghouse Electric has failed 
to provide adequate programming for 
children.
The United Church of Christ and the 
Center for Media Education filed a peti
tion with the FCC opposing the sale.
We want the FCC to develop a social 
contract between Westinghouse and the 
public, said a Center for Media Educa
tion executive, who spoke on the condi
tion of anonymity.
The contract, the executive said, 
should require Westinghouse to dis-. 
tribute more kids TV programs and to 
provide more air time for political candi
dates.
The FCC must approve the transfer of 
seven TV stations and 21 radio stations 
licenses from CBS to Pittsburgh-based 
Westinghouse. No other challenges have 
been filed with the FCC against the 
proposed sale.
The Center for Media Education has 
been a leading group is trying to get the 
FCC to adopt stronger childrens pro
gramming rules. The United Church of 
Christ actively weighs in on telecommu
nications proposals and issues before 
the FCC.
The challenge means that the sale will 
be delayed, for possibly up to six months, 
while the FCC investigates the petition. 
This is bad news for Westinghouse, for 
each delay in the pending sale means 
that another buyer could step forward.
Bill would block tobacco regs
WASHINGTON, D.C., Sept. 9 (DJ)  
Rep. L. F. Payne (D-Va.) and others 
introduced a bill to prohibit the Food 
and Drug Administration from regulat
ing the. sale or use of tobacco products.
Payne said the bill is in direct re
sponse to a proposed rule the FDA an
nounced last month under which the 
congressman said the agency would 
assume broad new powers over tobacco 
advertising, marketing and use in an 
attempt to deter smoking and other to
bacco use by minors.
I have never met a tobacco farmer or 
warehouse employee who would want 
their children to smoke cigarettes, said 
Payne. They want existing laws en
forced, and they want voluntary mea
sures to be given a chance to work.
What they do not want is for the FDA 
to use legitimate public concerns about 
teen smoking as a pretext for asserting 
its enormous regulatory jurisdiction over 
tobacco products, the Virginia congress
man said in a statement when he intro
duced his bill on behalf of a bipartisan 
coalition of about 20 House members.
Calling his proposal simple and 
straightforward, Payne said, It simply 
bars the FDA from proceeding with any 
regulations governing the sale or mar
keting of tobacco products.
He said that prohibiting the FDA 
from moving forward with these pro
posed regulations is not only consistent 
with existing law, it will send an impor
tant message to every other agency that 
attempts to issue regulations without 
express authority from the Congress.
Buchanan gets NH papers nod
WASHINGTON, D.C., Sept. 9 (DJ)  
Patrick Buchanan won a closely-watched 
endorsement as New Hampshires only 
statewide newspaper again backed his 
Presidential bid.
The Manchester Union Leader, long 
the most prominent conservative voice 
in the state that holds the nations first 
presidential primary, said approvingly 
that Buchanan has not shifted his posi
tions to curry favor with the mood of the 
moment. The paper also endorsed 
Buchanan in 1992 when he tried to take 
the Republican nomination away from 
then-President George Bush.
The newspapers endorsement is im
portant because it may influence the 
position of Governor Stephen Merrill, a 
highly popular figure, who hasnt yet 
endorsed anyone. The conservative gov
ernor has close ties to the Union Leader's. 
top management and isnt considered 
likely to take any positions that would 
put him at odds with the paper.
More schools requiring PCs
NEW YORK, Sept. 8 (DJ)  Many 
college freshmen starting school this fall 
will have more choices than ever in their 
fives.
But one choice a growing number wont 
have is which computer to use.
Although many colleges have for sev
eral years required students to own a 
personal computer, an increasing num
ber are expected to require an entire 
class to use one type of machine.
The advantages for the colleges and 
students include easier access to service 
and networking and lower costs from 
bulk purchasing. But the real winners 
are the computer makers, who have a 
captive audience and an opportunity to 
establish brand loyalty without med
dling from competitors.
That early exposure can pay big divi
dends for the companies. They get ac
cess to the demographic group most likely 
to buy their equipment in exchange for 
up-front prices that are often several, 
hundred dollars less than the students 
might pay at a discount computer chain 
store, and souped-up standard software.
The company with the largest share in 
the education market, Apple, benefited
from its contact with students, many of 
whom were loyal to Macintoshes long 
after graduation. IBM and Compaq are 
also signing exclusive college and uni
versity deals.
Wake Forest University plans to have 
all its incoming freshmen in 1996 using 
ThinkPads from IBM. The cost for the 
machines will.be included in the tuition 
for the Winston-Salem, N.C., school, a 
spokesman said.
The university has a pilot program for 
a smaller group of this years freshman 
class to use ThinkPads. I like it, said 
freshman participant Megan Cramer of 
Atlanta. With all the students using the 
same computer, its easy to help some
one else, Cramer explained.
Educators and industry observers 
know of no official studies tracking col
lege students computer-buying patterns 
after graduation, but there is anecdotal 
evidence that some people will return to 
the brand they used in college.
Kristie Hanley bought a Macintosh 
three years after she graduated from tht 
Newark, N.J., campus of Rutgers, which 
offered Macintosh to its students.
I was familiar with Macintosh, that 
why I wanted to buy it, she said.
Dartmouth has been primarily 
Macintosh campus since 1984, said Rick 
Adams, a school spokesman. The 
Hanover, N.H., school requires fresh
men to have a personal computer, and 
this year its recommending the 
Macintosh Performa 636.
Overall, students probably save 
around four percent when they purchase 
the computers from the colleges, com
pared to a discount computer store. In 
addition, their purchases usually include 
a variety of software packages and bet
ter quality perpherials.
Packwood will leave in October
WASHINGTON, D.C., Sept. 9 (DJ)- 
Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole (RKan.) said Sen. Bob Packwood (R-Ore.) 
will formally resign his seat October 1
In a statement on the Senate floor, 
Dole added that Packwood, found guilty 
by the Ethics Committee of sexual mis
conduct and abuse of power, will give up 
his chairmanship of the Senate Finance 
Committee immediately.
The timetable was outlined in letters 
exchanged by Dole and Packwood. 
Packwoods departure clears the way fori 
the Senate to take up the issue of who 
should take over the tax-writing panel 
for the rest of the 104th Congress.
Sen. William Roth (R-Del.) will re
place Packwood as chairman.
Its no secret that I have a conserva
tive and consistent economic philoso
phy, said Roth, suggesting he wants to 
create a robust economy. This is done by 
keeping taxes low and limiting govern
ment intervention. History has proven 
that when taxes are low, the economy 
grows. Its that simple.
Four-Day Forecast
Clear skies and 
mostly sunny; high 
near 75, evening low 
near 40.
Dry and partly sunny; 
high in upper 70s; 
low 40-45.
A cold front will 
move through the 
area, bringing 
clouds, but no rain. 
High near 70; low 
near 40.
Dry conditions 
continue, but clouds 
increase. High In mid 
70s, low in the 40s.
Thursday
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, October 16, 
1945: Gas rationing has been 
lifted, but the car-share plan is 
still in existence, read one notice 
in The Carnegie Tartan.
All you students who have to 
wait around for an hour or so for 
your ride can make good use of 
your spare time by studying in 
Room 130, Industries Hall. In
dustries Hall is todays Baker/ 
Porter Hall.
This room has been furnished 
with all the comforts of home for 
your convenience, so lets make 
good use of it to allow yourself 
more time for recreation.
25 YEARS AGO, September 
10, 1970: The American Year
book Company delayed the publi
cation of the 1970 Thistle, 
Carnegie-Mellon Universitys
yearbook, after certain cartoons 
in it were described by the 
companys lawyers as offensive 
and possibly libelous.
One cartoon panned a speech 
by CrMU President H. Guyford 
Stever where he reported that he 
had dined with a group of Afri
can-American students and found 
that they were really human 
beings.
Another depicted a group of stu
dents smuggling birth-control 
handbooks across the U.S.-Canadian border.
Student Senate refused to ac
cept liability for any possible law
suits, but did pass a resolution 
giving the Thistle the green fight 
to print the material.
A nearby advertisement re
ported that Spiro Agnew hates 
Mothers Pizza, 4523 Centre Ave.
Mothers Pizza featured The Big people had to be treated at local; 
Mother  a Hell of a Hoagie! hospitals.
10 YEARS AGO, September 9, 
1985: For freshmen, 1071 
Morewood Avenue is the site of 
an all-male dormitory, reported 
The Tartan. For returning stu
dents, however, this location is 
better known as the former resi
dence of Zeta Beta Tau frater
nity, continued the story.
The Zebes were banned from 
campus the previous year by the 
University Disciplinary Commit
tee when members of the frater
nity were in a brawl with mem
bers of the Korean Student Asso
ciation.
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
reported that two individuals in 
KSA used nunchucks, a martialarts weapon, in the fight. Four
FIVE YEARS AGO, Septem
ber 10,1990: A story headlined, 
Sniper standoff ends in death 
told of a tragedy a few blocks 
away from the CMU campus.
After holding police at bay for 
five hours from the roof-top of a 
nearby retirement home last Fri
day, an Oakland man took his life j 
by pulling the trigger of a .25 
caliber handgun pointed at his 
right temple, reported The Tar
tan.
The man fell 16 stories, leav
ing a team of police negotiators j 
only 10 feet from where he fired 
the shot.
Compiled by 
LAUREN HEINZ 
and JASON TOGYER
The Tartan will celebrate its 90th 
anniversary in 1996. The theme 
for the celebration is 90 years 
of excellence in print.
Heres the papers 1913 flag.(lljf (Tartan
ByJA VIII. No. 1SONTGYEG RTMaEaraG yt iGmhTyJyYsd 1EaaM5rNYhd 1GTTMsJnOTEO2,13,!C,o nst rurc

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 19953
Numbers dont tell whole story, says VP ElliottSneak peek at 
new student 
center offered
CONSTRUCTION, from page 1
featuring full meals, hoagies, ham
burgers, and pizza, as well as a coffee 
shop.
The second floor will be home to the 
ballroom, above the auditorium.
Across the corridor from the audito
rium there are two squash courts, an 
aerobics room, a weight room, and a 
food gallery.
Other projects underway
In addition to the $47 million uni
versity center, Roberts Hall is cur
rently under construction behind 
Hamerschlag Hall, and plans for a 
performing arts center are underway, 
with renovations and additions to 
Doherty Hall not too far off.
All of the proposed buildings are 
part of the master plan made in 1987. 
The plan looked at the campus as a 
whole rather than one individual build
ing.
The latest plan is for the west side of 
campus, with the previous plan ad
dressing the east side.
Each building since then was not 
just plopped down, Tellers said. He 
said they intend to create outdoor 
space which will complement the 
Cut.
RANKINGS, from page 1
presidents, deans, and admissions di
rectors and asked them to rank other 
schools in the same category as their 
own.
The resulting rankings were then com
bined with information, provided by the 
colleges, on what U.S. News considers 
measures of academic quality. These 
measures include student selectivity, 
faculty resources, financial resources, 
freshmen retention rate, and alumni 
satisfaction.
Elliott said its important to remem
ber that these factors dont necessarily 
say how good a university is.
Im not saying its a good measure or 
a bad measure, Im just saying that you 
have to understand what the numbers 
mean, he said. For example, Elliott said 
that U.S. News looks at faculty salaries, 
but the cost of living in many areas  
like Boston  is significantly higher 
than the cost of living in Pittsburgh. 
That has an effect on faculty salaries in 
those areas.
This brings up the whole issue about 
what value these things are, said Elliott. 
U.S. News does these to sell magazines. 
It doesnt say one school is better than 
another. Thats just the way the num
bers crank out.
This was the first year that the maga
zine ranked the undergraduate engi
neering and business schools. On the
engineering list, MIT and Stanford tied 
for first place. CIT is part of a seven way 
tie for number three; its neighbors in
clude Cal Tech, Cornell, Georgia Tech, 
University of California at Berkeley, 
University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign, and University of Michi
gan at Ann Arbor.
The top business schools were Haas 
School of Business at Cal-Berkeley and 
the Wharton School at the University of 
Pennsylvania. CMU is tied for third with 
MITs Sloan School, the University of 
Michigan, and the University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Elliott said its easy for some people to 
place too much emphasis on where they 
fall in a survey like this one.
Were all kind of rank-conscious in 
1995.1 think institutions spend a lot of 
time managing their numbers, he said, 
trying to affect their rank on lists like 
U.S. News. Thats not a good way to run 
an institution.
But the numbers are important highschool seniors, parents, graduate-school 
admissions officers, and corporations all 
look at the list, and it can influence their 
perception of a college.
Students and parents do pay atten
tion to these things to give them an idea 
of. the quality of an institution, said 
Fichman. Its not the first or last piece 
of information they use, but its cer
tainly in the margins. Weve had ratings
of the MSIA program, and students be
lieve it had a strong influence on their 
market ability.
Elliott pointed out that U.S. News list 
only ranked the top 50 schools. Think of 
the poor school that would have been 
ranked 51st [but didnt make the list]? 
he said.
They still have a very valid role in the 
education of this nation, said Elliott. 
Theres no such thing as a good school 
or a bad school, only the right school for 
the right people.
Fichman, whos been IM department 
head for a year, said that cant take 
credit for the departments current posi
tion. He said its taken five to 10 years to 
build the reputation of the undergradu
ate IM program, and that hes received 
the benefits of that long process.
I think we have the quality to belong 
in the top five or ten schools, he said.
We deserve it, but were going to have to 
work to keep it. And we will.
It takes a long time to change peoples 
perceptions, said Elliott. Twenty-five or 
30 years ago, Carnegie Tech was a re
gional school that recruited 60 to 70 
percent of its student body from the 
Pittsburgh area. Today, its a nationally 
and internationally recognized institu
tion.
Elliott has a message for students who 
would place a lot of emphasis on the U.S. 
News rankings. <cYou better come here, 
you better talk to our kids, and see how 
you fit. If you think this is the right spot 
for you, were going to have a great 
college experience, he said. If you think 
Cornell is a better spot for you, then you 
better go to Ithaca.
But if youre more concerned with 
where the school is ranked, then I think 
youre using the data in the wrong way.
Corrections/Clarifications...
A corrected Spring 1995 CIT Deans List appears on page L9. The Tartan 
apologizes for last weeks error.
A sentence in ECE grad under fire, page 1, may have given a wrong 
impression. University spokesman Don Hale says that he last spoke to Marty 
Rimm in early July. Rimm has since reportedly returned to Atlantic City.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, ; 
please contact Editor-in-Chief Lauren Heinz at 268-2111.
Crime and Incident Report
ATTEMPTED BURGLARY,
9/2,4:07 am. A resident of Cathe
dral Mansions became frightened 
after she heard two men tamper
ing with the kitchen door, an en
trance into the apartment. She 
quickly went to that door and 
secured it with a deadbolt. After 
she locked the door she heard one 
male say, Oh shit, somebody 
locked the door!
She did not see the individuals 
but thought they were two men 
no older than 24. Other residents 
of the building were contacted 
and were told to contact the Cam
pus Police with any concerns.
OPEN LEWDNESS, 9/4,2:33 
am. An officer observed a CMU 
student urinating in the Marga
ret Morrison Rotunda area in full 
view of pedestrian traffic. While 
speaking with the student, the 
officer could smell a strong odor 
of alcohol on his breath.
After being questioned by the 
officer, the student admitted that 
he had been drinking at the fra
ternities. He claimed that no one 
checked his identification upon 
entrance into some of the houses. 
The student was issued citations 
for open lewdness and underage 
drinking.
ASSAULT, 9/4,3:55 am. A stu
dent living in one of the residence 
halls told two officers that he and 
his friend were in the Donner 
Recreation Room and wanted to 
play ping pong. When the stu
dent asked if he could play the 
next game, one of the residents 
who was playingbecame verbally 
abusive towards him. The resi
dent then jumped on the student 
who was asking to play. The 
attackers companion pulled his 
friend off of the victim. The vic
tim then left the area. A report 
was written and sent to Resi
dence Life for further action.
BURGLARY, 9/5, 3:04 am. 
Officers went to Woodlawn Apart
ments in response to a call that 
someone had possibly entered an 
apartment while the residents 
were away. The residents said 
that when they left the apart
ment, the back door to the fire 
escape was definitely shut, locked, 
and possibly bolt-locked. When 
they returned to the apartment 
about two hours later, the door 
was ajar and the deadbolt was in 
the unlocked position. There were 
no signs of tampering or forced 
entry on the door or the door 
frame. The residents found nothP .Philip Pelusi Offers Students Great Savings!
Get our exclusive, internationally-acclaimed Volumetric 
haircut and related services for just *17.95 with selected 
designers. Every haircut appointment includes consultation, 
shampooing, conditioning, styling, blow dry and styling lesson! 
Present your Student ID to get your Philip Pelusi Student 
Discount Card. Free Consultations Every Day!
Voted #1 Salon for Haircuts by The City Paper,
In Pittsburgh and The Pittsburgh Tribune Review.
Squirrel Hill......................................521-1200
One Oxford Centre............................ 261-6550
Century III Mall.................................655-1940
Village Square Mall............................ 833-6770
Westmoreland Mall............................836-6670
Ross Park Mall.................................. 366-1555
Robinson Town Centre........................788-0204
Monroeville Mall............................... 372-7520
Ask About Our Design Team 
Training Session Haircuts... just $10.95.
30 Years  A Cut Above the Rest
ing out of place in the apartment. 
They were told to call Campus 
Police if they found anything 
missing.
WATER LEAK, 9/6,10:07 pm. 
Two officers discovered a water 
leak in the Child Care Center. 
Kitchen personnel reported that 
there was raw sewage and toilet 
paper floating inside the bottom 
of the dishwasher. When the wa
ter leak was first discovered on 
September 2 there was almost 
two inches of water in part of the 
hallway. The water leak was not 
caused by a faulty dishwasher 
drain, but by the inability of the 
main sewage system in Morewood 
Gardens to handle the sudden 
demand put on it by students 
returning for the fall semester.
There have been reports that the 
system backs up every time there 
is a severe thunderstorm.
POSSESSION OF MARI
JUANA, 9/8,11:06 am. On Sep
tember 6 an officer was jogging 
past the East Campus Garage 
when he smelled the odor of burnt 
marijuana coming from a truck. 
A detective responded and saw 
two construction workers walk
ing through the garage.
The next day, an officer watched 
the truck with binoculars. Four 
other officers were in the area. 
Two construction workers came 
to the truck at about 12:01 pm 
and entered the cab. The officers 
noticed that the two workers were 
passing what appeared to be a 
hand-rolled cigarette between
them. When one of the officers 
walked past, the passenger put 
the rolled cigarette down below 
the dash and lit up what appeared 
to be a regular cigarette.
Police units moved in, identi
fied themselves, and ordered the 
occupants to exit the vehicle. A 
search showed a hand-rolled ciga
rette in a soda can. An officer 
found a small amount of sus
pected marijuana in a plastic bag. 
The suspects were transported to 
the police office where they were 
field tested. The test was posi
tive.
Both were charged with pos
session of marijuana. The fore
man was notified and the sus
pects were told that if they ever 
come back to CMU, they would be 
arrested for trespassing.
The Tartan prints the Crime 
and Incident Report under the 
following guidelines:
 Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to their release.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staff member who types the 
report.
 All personal names of com
plainants, victims, and suspects, 
and fraternitiy names, are omit
ted from the printed report. Eth
nic descriptions and other per
sonal details are only given in the 
context of a complete description.
 Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
SAMEER KARIM
ARE YOU A TWIN?
Join Pitt Twin Study 
Healthy twins ages 18-27 may qualify 
Earn over $80 each 
Call 624-9106
Immigration Services
All Vivi'.* IVmuikiH Ri'-kkiKA  Nalumli/alion
\ ciitrcscn & Ventresca
>; lii ''.ill .lU
^5^ < ii.mi Slicv.1  Sink 3.?. 
I ill *1 in l*Ii  P\  152 I'1
Phone: 261*5366 
261-5369
SOME THINGS CANT BE LEARNED IN SCHOOL.
On-Campus Interviews 
Wednesday. September 20th 
Carnegie Mellon Career Center 
? ? ? 
Technical Opportunities 
Conference Job Fair 
Thursday. September 21st 
10:00 am - 4:00 pm 
Gymnasium
Now that you're ready to put your education to work, get ready to start learning. At Adobe 
Systems, you'll continuously build your knowledge and skill set. This is one place where 
the learning curve never ends. It's also no place for the unaccomplished, the uninspired, or 
the untalented. VJe do good work here. The kind that comes from a love of achievement 
and a passion for technology. More than computer art and graphics software, our products 
cover every stage of a document's life cycle: creation, reproduction, distribution, storage, 
and retrieval. Best of all, these amazing products continue to be enhanced and perfected, 
landing on the cutting edge year after year. That means that, at Adobe, your abilities will 
never stop growing. How many other companies can offer you that?
Bring us your resume in order to be considered for opportunities based in 
Mountain View, CA; Seattle, WA; and/or Phoenix, AZ. Here's your chance to 
apply your BSCS/EE or related degree at the company that developed the 
PostScript'* page description language and such world-renown products as 
Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop"1, PageMaker1 and Adobe Acrobat.
If unable to sign up for an interview or attend the Job Fair, please send your resume 
to Adobe Systems Incorporated, College Relations, Dept. CMU95,1625 Charleston 
Road, P.C. Box 7900, Mountain View, CA 94039-7900. We are an Equal Opportunity/ 
Affirmative Action Employer and Welcome and Encourage Diversity in the Workplace.
Principals only, please. Adobe, the Adobe logo, PostScript, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, PageMaker and 
Adobe Acrobat are trademarks of Adobe Systems incorporated and its subsidiaries which may be registered in certain 
jurisdictions. Copyright 0199S Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved.W
Adobe

---------------------------------------------------

L
: ' , : ; '> 'fa,'  X %'}?' ' i tr,'>'S>} i:'''t-* s' ^ 
: Youre sweating in your dorm room when
; it hits you like a lukewarm water balloon. You have 
some really lame furniture. But look... outside, a shining,
i HS; r-;i VHhi  -v.-p:: .'?=.;.'--;:.':i\!V.-=.:^-6V'';-^ -vx--r;;: '>>:: ; v^:>" :-V/  ; v-:!^W;;  v^r:' :'k- "iV'-^N = i  . - ..V ':.- ^:. . T: v-?: ;: -
air-conditioned, road trip lovin magic bus is waiting. A crowd is
chanting, Its free, its free, the bus is free. You sprint tothe departing bus. Youre going
t
to IKEA. Forever leaving behind that heinous collection of ragtag furniture you call home.
I
I

f
Free shuttle bus to IKEA.
Friday Sept. 15 thru Sunday Sept. 17. University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon and Duquesne.
To sign up call IKEA Pittsburgh (412) 747-0747 Ext. 4 (Customer Service).
Bus departs from the Pitt Library each day 11 am I pm 3pm.
Bus also departs from MAC machine on Duquesne campus at I 1:15am 1:15pm 3:15 pm.
When you board the bus youll receive a yellow IKEA tote bag, an IKEA catalog, a coupon for a free hot 
dog and drink, and a reduced delivery charge of $25*. Regularly $40.
Bus departs IKEA at 2:30 pm 4pm 6 pm.
Its a big country. Someones got to furnish it.
IKEA Pittsburgh  Parkway West/Route 60, Westbound: Robinson Town Centre or Eastbound: Exit 2IMontour Run  (412) 747-0747  Store Hours: Mon-Sat 10-9PM  Sun 10-6PM
*To the Oakland area only.

---------------------------------------------------

l,g lSs0SC N VSsCgUIg wgppMC cCIngsaI0i N 11 egv0g16gs b55RR
kI11Ja 6S.-UsMrC2 sSIaga Trga0IMCa S6Mr0 vMsC a0r2iJa .sg2I6IpI0i
RIMM, from page 1
Among them are Donna 
Hoffman and Thomas Novak, 
professors of marketing at 
Vanderbilt University in Nash
ville, Tennessee. Theyre cur
rently conducting a five-year re
search program on marketingthe 
Internet called Project 2000, 
and were among those who have 
released detailed critiques of both 
the Time article and Rimms 
study.
In a response published on the 
World Wide Web, Rimm said that 
Hoffinan and Novak are upset 
simply because they werent 
asked to review the study.
We did not solicit Ms. 
Hoffmans or Mr. Novaks advice 
becaus we did not consider them 
experts in either computer por
nography or the law, wrote Rimm 
in his response to their critique of 
his study.
But as Hoffman points out, no 
outside party with a technical 
background was allowed to re
view the paper before its release
 on Rimms orders.
This guy wrote a bad research 
paper. Its obvious that Marty 
Rimm, whos a master manipula
tor, is operating out of this oneto-many model of disseminating 
information, said Hoffman. He 
controlled access to the study, 
and he hoodwinked [Time tech
nology writer] Philip ElmerDeWitt, but he was not able to 
control the people who had a voice
 the World Wide Web.
The view of the Internet com
munity was that this man did not 
want his manuscript peer-reviewed, but by God, hes going to 
get it peer-reviewed.
Indeed, Hoffman and Novak 
were not the only ones that pub
lished harsh critiques of the 
study. Dozens were written by 
people ranging from students at 
CMU and professional scientists 
to Brian Reid, the Digital Elec
tronics Corp. (DEC) programmer 
who wrote the arbitron script 
used to compile user statistics. 
Rimm used a modified version of 
Reids program to obtain the An
drew statistics used in his report.
I have read a preprint of the 
Rimm study of pornography and 
I am so distressed by its lack of 
scientific credibility that I dont 
even know where to begin cri
tiquing it, wrote Reid. Normally 
when I am sent a publication for 
review, if I find a flaw in it I can 
identify it and say here, in this 
paragraph, you are making some 
unwarranted assumptions. In 
this study I have trouble finding 
measurement techniques that are 
not flawed.
David Banks, a statistics pro
fessor who acted for a short time
as an advisor to the Rimm study, 
seems willing to chalk up some of 
the papers problems to inexperi
ence.
Hes an undergrad, so I dont 
expect him to have a lot of experi
ence with statistics or writing 
papers. That would be unreason
able, said Banks.
But Rimm has often said that 
his status as an undergraduate 
didnt matter  he seems proud 
of it, and claims that he was more 
than qualified to conduct the re
search and write the final paper.
Frankly, many people here are 
impressed that an undergradu
ate managed a team of more than 
two dozen researchers at 
Carnegie Mellon University, was 
published in one of the more pres
tigious law journals in the United 
States, and had the study he 
authored featured on the cover of 
Time wrote Rimm.
Should [Rimm] be considered 
a professional as an undergradu
ate? Has he demonstrated the 
skills of a professional scientist, 
or was he merely learning how to 
become a professional? said Pe
ter Madsen, director of CMUs 
Center for the Advancement of 
Applied Ethics.
Lack of professionalism
If Rimm wants to be considered 
a professional researcher, then 
he has to held to the same stan
dards as other professional re
searchers, and he hasnt met those 
standards, said Madsen.
Professionalism has a role here 
to play. It shows a clear lack of 
professionalism to try to gain as 
much publicity as possible for 
ones self, he said. Profession
als are dedicated to the service of 
society, not to themselves.
Time's Elmer-DeWitt has not 
answered a request for an inter
view, but in on-line discussions 
on the Well, an Internet service 
provider, he has made it clear 
that he shouldnt have published 
the story with Rimms restric
tions. I screwed up, he wrote.
This was a major report out of 
a prestigious university, pub
lished in a leading law journal, 
and, it seemed to me, a legitimate 
hook for a story that tried to put 
the issues it raised in some per
spective. Im sorry that so many 
... thought it failed to do that.
DeWitt was aware that many 
in the Internet community had 
serious reservations about 
Rimms research and his conclu
sions. But Time, in its search for 
an exclusive, was willing to bend 
to Rimms wishes and hope that 
the study lived up to Carnegie 
Mellons reputation.
Time magazine had an ex
tremely pivotal role in creating
this controversy and then they 
tried to shift the blame, said 
Ruemmler of the Georgetown Law 
Journal.
She said that the Journal's edi
tors were thrilled at the national 
attention for Rimms paper that 
the Time publicity juggernaut 
was creating. But the final prod
uct may have been a bit too sen
sational for their tastes. The cover 
included a headline screaming 
Cyberpom and featured a fullpage photo of a wide-eyed child 
illuminated by the glow from a 
computer screen. Inside, the fea
ture story was illustrated by pic
tures of a man having sex with a 
computer and a child being 
tempted by a computer screen 
with a lollipop on it.
We thought it was kind of ex
citing  a kind of a neat thing 
I was certainly shocked to see the 
photographs [on the cover and 
inside], said Ruemmler.
The Time story was just the 
thing for those trying to regulate 
the Internet. U.S. Senator 
Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, waved 
a copy of Time on the Senate floor 
as he asked for support for a bill 
titled the Protection of Children 
from Computer Pornography 
Act.
This study raises important 
questions about the availability 
and the nature of cyberpom, 
Grassley told his Senate col
leagues. I want to emphasize 
that this is Carnegie Mellon Uni
versity. This is not a study done 
by some religious organization 
analyzing pornography that 
might be on computer networks.
Rimm was an instant celebrity. 
Mike Godwin of the Electronic 
Frontier Foundation debated 
Ralph Reed of the Christian Coa
lition on PJZC-HYsNightline. The 
topic? Marty Rimms study. Ra
dio talk-shows across the country 
clamored for the chance to inter
view him. A picture of Rimm, 
posed in front, of a computer dis
playing CMUs home page, ran in 
newspapers everywhere. He re
ceived an invitation to testify in 
front of the Senate. '
Its unusual for scholarly re
searchers to call media attention 
to themselves. Often, the work 
will call attention to itself, and 
the media will pounce on it, said 
Madsen.
Maybe we can criticize him for 
trying to make a big splash. Can 
we really fault him for that? said 
Ruemmler.
Lets hypothesize that heres a 
person that for the first time is 
the center of attention, said 
Madsen. It might be fun, and the 
temptation to have more fun 
might be there. Or, lets say he 
just didnt learn the craft of re
search well. He meant no harm, 
but just showed navet. Then, 
it's a whole new ballgame.
Vanderbilts Hoffman accuses 
Rimm of trying to influence pub
lic policy by shaping the debate.
This was positioned as some
thing from a research team at 
Carnegie Mellon, she said. The 
evidence is voluminous and points 
very clearly to an agenda, call
ing Rimms method of getting the 
study published subterfuge. 
His intent was to provide infor
mation that could be used by pub
lic policy makers.
It wouldnt have been the first 
time that Rimms research was 
able to influence lawmakers. Resi
dents of his hometown, Atlantic 
City, N.J., and casino owners are 
familiar with his previous work.
Well-known in Atlantic City
Rimm comes from a large, wellrespected, and well-connected 
family. His uncle is a New Jersey 
tax court judge. His first cousin 
sits on the board of commission
ers for Margate, N.J. His greatuncle sat on the states superior 
court.
Early on he showed a knack for 
publicity. His exploits have been 
well-known to the local paper, 
The Press of Atlantic City, for 
years. As a 16-year-old junior at 
Atlantic City High School, Rimm 
conducted a survey of his class
mates that he said showed that 
64 percent of them had gambled 
in the citys casinos.
But that wasnt all  he also 
claimed that he had disguised 
himself as an Arab sheik and 
infiltrated the Playboy Hotel and 
Casino. Rimm said that casino 
staffers gave him the red carpet 
treatment, offering him on-thespot credit.
Casino officials laughed at the 
study, but it landed Rimms photo 
on the front page of the paper  
in his sheik costume  and re
ceived widespread publicity. 
Their mood changed after the 
state-wide news coverage 
prompted the New Jersey legis
lature to raise the age for gam
bling in casinos from 18 to 21.
After high school, Rimm at
tended the University of South 
Florida before spending several 
years traveling in Europe.
In 1988, he returned to Atlan
tic City and began applying for 
work at the citys casinos. He 
wasnt just looking for a parttime job  he was also trying to 
learn about the gambling indus
try.
After being licensed by the 
states Division of Gaming En
forcement (DGE), he was hired 
by Donald Trumps Trump Plaza 
Hotel and Casino. He was appar
ently fired soon after for chronic 
absenteeism.
Next, he was hired by Trumps 
Taj Mahal as a security officer, 
neglecting to mention that he had 
previously been fired by the 
Trump Plaza.
Rimm left the Taj Mahal before 
the casino opened to the public, 
but apparently never returned 
his employee identification card. 
That was an important piece of 
information for state officials in
vestigating a series of hoaxes that 
involved Trumps casinos.
Pranks plague Trump casinos
In 1990, Rimm self-published a 
collection of short-stories called 
An American Playground, 
which told of a young artists look 
at the seamy side of New Jersey 
gaming, with particular empha
sis on Trumps resorts.
Visitors to the Taj Mahal in 
late June found fliers on their car 
windshields, printed on Taj 
Mahal letterhead, in which 
DonaldTrump himself hailed the 
book as one of the most phenom
enal literary events of the 90s.
In fact, anyone buying the book 
and presenting it at the Taj would 
receive $25 to spend at the ca
sino.
The problem was, the letter
head was stolen. Neither Trump 
nor the Taj Mahal knew about 
the promotion. The New Jersey 
DGE was called in.
The DGE documents obtained 
by The Press reveal that the in
vestigation focused on Rimm al
most immediately. Agents ques
tioning Rimm reportedly found 
him evasive.
[Rimm] gave only incomplete 
responses to questions and con
tinuously responded with vague 
and indefinite answers, the pa
per quotes one report as saying.
Rimm denied any responsibil
ity for the hoax, but admitted 
that he had seen the fliers.
A few months later, while the 
investigation was still open, hun
dreds of people received letters 
from the Taj Mahal telling them 
that they had won the casinos 
Rajas Riches contest.
The letters, on Taj Mahal sta
tionery, looked official. They of
fered prizes ranging from a RollsRoyce to $10,000 in cash, and 
went only to those who had en
tered the contest. Only someone 
from the casino, it would seem, 
would have access to the contest 
mailing list.
The Taj Mahal was swamped 
with inquiries from happy win
ners.
The problem was that the 
award letters were forgeries, too.
The letters, which were similar 
in appearance to the phony fliers,
claimed that Donald Trump 
would give a speech at the award 
ceremony called Whorehouses of 
Emotion, outlining his vision for 
Atlantic City.
In one story in An American 
Playground, a character pat
terned after Rimm gives his vi
sion for the future of Atlantic 
City. The storys title? 
Whorehouses of Emotion.
Rimm, who was working for 
Ballys Park Place casino, was 
once again in the DGEs hot-seat. 
He was ordered to appear for a 
formal deposition in front of the 
agency.
He was a prime target because 
of his suspected involvement with 
the previous hoax, and because 
he had allegedly never returned 
his Taj Mahal ID, and thus could 
have gained access to the casinos 
records.
At the hearing, he denied re
sponsibility for the hoaxes and 
refused to answer any questions. 
His failure to cooperate should 
have been grounds for the DGE 
to revoke his casino license, but it 
was set to expire and Rimm said 
that he had no plans to renew it. 
In addition, the Taj Mahal was 
reluctant to discuss the matter, 
seeking to avoid publicity.
The DGE dropped the matter.
Difficult to judge intentions
Rimms background, combined 
with the alleged deception of the 
bulletin board operators, could 
lead people to wonder about the 
veracity of the work and Rimms 
intentions, said the CAAEs 
Madsen. To be fair, maybe he 
botched the whole thing  lets 
suppose he made a mistake.
Only he knows his own inten
tions here. Its difficult to judge 
what they might be, Madsen 
said.
Hes done this stuff before, 
said Hoffman. I think we did a 
good job of trying to control the 
damage. If he had been allowed 
to read this stuff into the Con
gressional Record or been allowed 
to testify, it would have been a lot 
worse.
We knew that it would be con
troversial, said Ruemmler. 
Thats part of what academic 
discourse is supposed to produce. 
But I dont think thats what hap
pened. I think Marty Rimms per
sonal life and all this stuff is 
whats been coming up. For policy 
reasons, I think people with agen
das are trying to destroy any cred
ibility that this study had.
A letter to Time magazine that 
appeared after the Cyberpom 
cover story expressed the feel
ings of many. The most dreaded 
words in America, it said, are fast 
becoming a new study revealed.
(ANDDCO U TOIG)CGGENERAL DENTISTRY
You SOT SyrTa yT
(((((((((((S Da y)iOt
Choose a dentist you can count on for life. Call the office of Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D. Youll 
meet a dentist who combines the latest in dental technology with something that cant be measured 
by a test or a machinea dedication to treating you as a human being, not just a set of teeth,
BOARD CERTIFIED-PAIN MANAGEMENT
Fellow-Academy of General Dentistry 
Diplomate-American Academy of Pain Management 
Master-Academy of General Dentistry 
Fellow-International College of Craniomandibular Orthopedics 
Fellow-Academy of Dentistry International 
Fellow-Pierre Fauchard Academy
MICHAEL S. MELNICK
D.M.D., M.A.G.D.
AND ASSOCIATES 
The Park Plaza Suite 207 
128 North Craig Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 688-9000 OR (412) 687-8888 
(800) 732-7645
T.M.J. (Temporomandibular loint) Disorders 
 Porcelain and Gold Crowns and Bridges 
 Orthodontics for Adults and Children 
 Endodontic (Root Canal) Treatment 
 Periodontal (Gum) Therapy 
I.V. Sedation/Anesthesia 
Cosmetic Dentistry 
 Pediatric Dentistry 
 Oral Surgery
ACCREDITED ^ PAIN PROGRAM
An Outpatient Comprehensive 
Multidisciplinary Pain Treatment Center 
Accredited by the American Academy of 
Pain Management 
Highest Standards for Infection Control 
& SterilizationOffice Inspected Thru 
OSHA Compliance Program 
Nitrous Oxide Sedation 
I.V. Conscious Sedation Under Personal 
of a Hospital Trained 
Anesthesiologist 
Medical StaffShadyside Hospital
A Carnegie Mellon Graduate with a Tradition of Excellence
Mastercard, Visa, Discover, Novus, American Express Accepled. Interest-free payment plans available.
Day and Evening Hours by Appointment
 Security Building  Indoor Valet Parking
 Most Insurance Plans Accepted
Photo by Jonas  1995 Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D.

---------------------------------------------------

6The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 1995
Carnegie Mellon University11 September 1995
Rimm a0r2i raises 
ethical questions
When a Carnegie Mellon 
alum landed his research 
project about pornography and 
the Internet on the cover of 
Time magazine, the Univer
sity was quick to applaud what 
the media was then calling 
the Carnegie Mellon Study
 it symbolized what CMU 
prides itself on: technology, in
novation and pioneering re
search.
But when the same study 
came under fire just a few days 
later, the University was not 
so proud, and worked ardently 
to become disassociated with 
it  a wise move.
Provost Paul Christiano 
formed an investigative com
mittee to examine the studys 
scholarship and methods.
Researchers on the project 
began taking their names from 
the studys cover page.
' It became clear that the 
study, and its flaws, belonged 
to Marty Rimm.
But Carnegie Mellon would 
remain wrapped up in the con
troversy as news' of the ECE 
undergraduates study spread 
to many magazines, newspa
pers, bboards and web page 
lacross the nation.
The damage had been done.
 Rimm monitored 89 per
cent of student, faculty and 
administrative Andrew ac
counts to see which users had 
subscribed, or evenjust logged 
on, to a pornographic bboard.
(Without asking permission).
 Rimm used data gathered 
from privately-operated adult 
bulletin board systems (BBSs) 
to make generalizations about 
the Internet  a completely 
different entity.
 Rimm misrepresented him
self to BBS owners to gain 
access to confidential informa
tion about subscribers.
 Rimm attempted to con
ceal his status as an under
graduate, and instead por
trayed his research as officially 
sanctioned by the University.
.  Rimm funded his 18-month 
study with SURG grants.
 Rimm did it. It was Rimms 
fault.
Unfortunately, Rimms study 
will always be linked to 
Carnegie Mellon  a stigma 
that hurts the University and 
its undergraduate research'ers. What can we do to ensure 
our researchers, and our Uni
versity, conduct ethical re-search?
, Some say undergraduate re
search projects shouldbemore 
closely monitored by the advi
sors who agree to oversee
mguAivwany umw  nmm srodtM imwM&u  mrnserm > mtsmmm
Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health  Banking  Politics  Funding  Football Fielt 
Student Affairs  Constitution  Construction  Overcrowding  Contras  Housing  Sororitie 
Charities  Gymnasium  Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Exercise  Congress 
Middle East  Weather  Advising  Sex  Geeks  Alcohol  Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse 
Domedy  Woody Alien  Mni1rp  Ad^rtisinsJ^Disco  Crime  All-Nighter
Grant's Sex Life r IshtaClI^HaiC* mussI  liim^^g^tion^^EI  Presidential Search  
VRCT  Compute* Classif^l Rasearai  BC^Js Rowdy's Yojura  Bi^ Hair  Funding ' 
Student Affairs *TfenstrucfcW!^ Ov^biwdin^ilmising^'SoromRJS * Charraes  Dining Servici 
Environment  Hostages  Recycling  Congress  Middle East  Weather  Advising  Sex  Geek 
Alcohol  Gay Rights  Drugs 0 Budget  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  The Flag  Wood; 
Ulen  Funding  Student Affairs  Mayor  Construction  Track Field  Overcrowding ' 
institution  Activities Board  Gymnasium  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Dining Service 
Environment  Recycling  Congress  Club Sports  Middle East  Weather  Advising  Crimi 
ex^Geeks^Comigtion^iolfmce^jUcohol^JDn^
them. This has its good and 
bad points.
No student wants a baby
sitter, but maybe more close 
attention should be paid to 
research  especially when it 
reflects a controversial, yet 
ambiguous topic like pornog
raphy.
Then again, no one wants to 
be censored.
Of course the true responsi
bility lies in the researcher 
him/herself, but after Mar
keting Pornography on the In
formation Superhighway, we 
should all consider the ramifi
cations of our own work.
In addition, it is important 
to determine what the re
search will be used for.
Rimms study was going to 
be used as empirical evidence 
by Republican Senator 
Charles Grassley, who is draft
ing a bill to limit what can be 
seen on the Internet.
CMU also examined Rimms 
work when making decisions 
about the censorship of our 
bboards.
In both cases, we see Rimms 
research was going to be used 
for censorship.
But the clincher was Rixnms 
methodology. In examining the 
files of 89 percent of this cam
pus without ever asking, he 
violated the right to privacy of 
almost every student, faculty 
member, and administrator on 
campus.
By manipulating the Unix 
system, Rimm was able to find 
out what bboards people 
looked at, when, and for how 
long.
The information was printed 
in a code, which Rimm figured 
out how to decipher.
In the BBSs, Rimm was able 
to obtain from the owners lists 
of names, addresses, and in 
some cases, credit card and 
social security numbers.
While the Internet and An
drew system are riddled with 
disclaimers regarding random 
monitoring, no one suspected, 
or authorized, Rimm to do the 
overseeing.
In retrospect, researchers 
need to find the truth, and 
pursue their study ethically 
and respectfully. When Rimm 
produced an unprofessional 
study that landed on the cover 
of Time and brought CMU into 
the spotlight, it compromised 
the Universitys credibility and 
reputation as being one of the 
finest research centers in the 
country, a blow it will take 
time to recover from.
Letters to the Editor
Student disturbed 
by view of women
Editor:
I strongly dis
agreed with the 
perceptions of 
CMU women and 
dating in Sharmila 
Venkatasulgbams 
article.
I think the article was extremely one
sided as well as demeaning to women 
and men on this campus.
First, the article only used interviews 
which described women as either re
pressed, promiscuous, rude, arrogant, 
and CMUs ever-popular, unattractive.
Letter to the Editor
My only assumption for this perspective 
is that the writer believed that this is 
how the majority of men at CMU feel 
about the women around them. I think 
most men and women on this campus 
would agree that there is a significant 
number of CMU men who do respect 
women on this campus.
I also believe that many men on this 
campus view us as more than the shal
low, ill-formed stereotypes promoted by 
the men interviewed for this article.
Second, I find it very ironic that this 
article and its negative depiction of CMU 
students claimed to be lamenting the 
fact that CMU is not a hotbed of ro
mance.
Fostering narrow-minded images of
women can only further damage rela
tionships between men and women on 
this campus.
Finally, I think that The Tartan should 
be more aware in the future about what 
they print as feature articles. In my 
opinion, articles which only represent 
one perspective usually belong, on the 
Editorial page.
The next time one of your writers is in 
need of a womans perspective on men, 
dating, or any issue, feel free to contact 
me anytime.
Margaret Puskar 
Senior
Social HistoryWar on drugs wages fools crusade
James Stepanek
Now s a fair warning for all you folks who read these 
columns last year, this will be something of a reprise of my 
one on the war on some drugs, but with some develop
ments. You may ask why am I writing what amounts to the 
same column again  well, there are two reasons. The first 
is that this is a terribly important subject which truly needs 
reconsideration by the public. The second is that the other 
things I was intending to write about require research and 
Ive gotten too lazy this week.
As everyone recalls, this nation tried an experiment back 
in the 20s. It was called Prohibition and was a massive 
failure. It tried to make the government impose a standard 
of morality on the people by criminalizing the drinking or 
production of alcohol. This is an example of a victimless 
crime, which the prosecution of is always a bad idea, as far 
as Im concerned.
Why did we do it in 
the first place? Well 
the same stuff we hear 
now: Lives are being 
ruined. Workers are 
screwing up due to in
ebriation. Huge 
amounts of money are 
being squandered.
Youve heard of all the 
same things with re
spect to the drug war.
All of them may even 
be true. The problem is 
that criminalizing 
these things does noth
ing to stop the use of 
the banned substance.
It just creates a thriv
ing black market in the 
illicit substance. Also, 
is it our business to pro
tect people from them
selves? Whats next, a 
war on flab?
This black market is quite a horrendous problem. You 
know about organized crime and other such pleasantries 
right? Well, they were spawned during Prohibition. The 
outlawing of alcohol provided a huge source of easy income 
for those willing to break the law. There proved to be no 
shortage of such people. From Prohibition, we got the Mob 
and the Mafia. Now with the drug war, we have the 
proliferation of the gangs.
Recently, Newt Gingrich came out and said something 
surprisingly lucid for a political figure. He addressed the war 
on drugs and explained that we only have two credible 
choices.
His first suggestion would be to give it up and stop wasting 
the resources, since its a lost cause the way were going. The 
second would be to impose such harsh, draconian measures, 
that no one in their right mind would be willing to run the
risks involved in the use of drugs. His first example is 
something which took a lesson from Prohibition. His 
second is something which takes a lesson from Saudi 
Arabia. In Saudi Arabia, if you are caught importing 
drugs they simply cut your head off. Saudi Arabia, need
less to say, doesnt have much of a drug problem.
This was an amazing statement for a major politician. 
He actually had the guts to even suggest ending the Drug 
War, which as a conservative, is tantamount to political 
suicide among many voting blocks.
Of course Bill Clinton and other statists had to ridicule 
the first suggestion. To think: removing the power of the 
government to intrude in our lives  we certainly cant 
have that. The media also followed the White House line 
with their usual ridicule of Newt.
Political reality then stepped in on Gingrich and he took 
the statist conservative course and came out advocating 
the draconian measures. I believe he has proposed a bill 
in Congress to mandate the death penalty for drug smug
glers.
As if the fact that there are hundreds of thousands of
people in prison for 
drug crimes al
ready isnt enough. 
Now, we have to 
start in on the 
drawn-out capital 
punishment angle. 
I have no problems 
with capital pun
ishment in the case 
of many crimes. 
This example is just 
a bad idea. Lets 
face it, the way in 
which capital pun
ishment is meted 
out in this nation is 
such a long, te
dious, and unpre
dictable process 
that it barely be
comes a deterrent. 
The draconian 
measures can work 
in Saudi Arabia 
simply because people do not have any civil rights there. 
You just get paraded in front of a judge, pronounced guilty 
(though if your accuser proves to be lying he gets offed), 
and orf with er ead. We cant do that here. There must 
be heaps of evidence and a drawn-out trial. The trial not 
being enough, we must have many replays through ap
peals. As if the court system isnt overburdened enough.
Lets face it, the prosecution of victimless crimes is 
antithetical to a free state. Unless you are willing to even 
further erode the protections of the Bill of Rights (which 
the Drug War has already done to an alarming extent), 
you can never win. Does anyone really feel that the 
problems caused by drugs are severe enough to sacrifice 
our freedom just to eliminate them?
James Stepanek is a graduate student in MSE. He 
welcomes any responses to his comments.
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Co-Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 19957
Columnist pleads for more courtesy
John Biggs
There are people who have no 
legs. There are people who move 
unbearably slow. In fact, there 
are even people who walk at a 
normal pace. These are three true 
things about people. It is also a 
fact that on this campus, people 
who ride bikes and in-line skates 
are out to get those people who 
have no legs at all, move unbear
ably slow, or even move at a walk
ing pace.
Now I dont want to complain. I 
dont want to seem old-fashioned or square, but I feel I 
deserve some room to walk with
out having to contend with 15 or 
20 people barrelling at me. I see 
some in-line skaters pound into 
doors, rumble down stairs, and 
even skate into lecture halls be
cause it just feels natural. How
ever, they usually look damn stu
pid doing it and take somebody 
down in the process.
I ride a bike. I try to stay on the 
grass or to one side of the side
walk. I realize some people walk 
like drifting rowboats, gee and 
yaw, twisting and turning as they your ears.
bop on down the road, and that is 
to be expected. However, there 
are also some who walk straight 
as an arrow and still risk life and 
limb. Skaters fly by. Bikers do 
wheelies over their toes at the 
last minute. Skateboarders ... 
they just kind of skate around 
making scraping noises. I guess 
we can leave them out. But there 
is still a danger to those walking, 
and those choosing an alternate 
mode of transportation.
Common courtesy, an old, and 
not so groovy idea, is what is 
needed here. People wearing in
lines shouldnt scoot through 
Baker Hall. I realize its all down
hill and its kind of fun, but didnt 
your mother ever tell you about 
inside locomotion and outside lo
comotion? Would you skate down 
the hall at home? People on bikes 
should holler On your left! at 
least 10 seconds before they shoot 
by. Both of these offenders should 
stay to the left, leaving the others 
to move freely on the right. Were 
big cats and kittens, here, we 
can all figure out our lefts and 
rights.
Take care and bear left. Slow 
down before you mow down. Life 
is hard enough without some 
weirdo on wheels whizzing past
Poor toilet paper produces pain in posterior positions
Eric Salzman
When I came to college, I was 
not expecting to maintain the 
greatest standard of living. Liv
ing in a dorm certainly wasnt 
going to be like 
a five-star ho
tel, and the food 
in Highlander 
would cer
tainly never 
compare to the 
illustrious
quality of ____________
Dennys. This 
was all okay
I expected as much.
However, when I wipe my 
ass, Id like to think that the 
University puts a little thought 
into my comfort. I dont need 
much. Its just that the biode
gradable, two foot thick, larger 
than life, rolls of cleanser make 
me sad. The sheets themselves 
are truly insufficient. With a 
quality product like Charmin, 
maybe a fold or two is all thats 
needed. The CMU special toi
let paper cries out for a mini
mum 6- or 7-layering to truly 
protect the hand.
University logic has got to be a 
cost-effective sort of plan. Not 
only is the stuff we get stuck 
with probably the cheapest for 
honest use, it also minimizes 
the risk of theft. Lets face it, 
students with apartments as 
well as students on campus who
when I wipe my ass, Id 
like to think that the Univer
sity puts a little thought 
into my comfort 
dont want to buy tissues, are 
not unfamiliar with the act of 
borrowing (but then, who 
would want it back after use?) a 
roll or two of the infamous white 
vapor.
What we need is a mutual bar
gain. Maybe if students sign a 
pledge promising to never again 
steal the campus toilet paper, 
the University will agree to buy 
quality brands.
Granted, this agreement 
would take a massive meeting of
the minds, butit couldbe done. 
Just think of all the benefits 
better toilet paper would bring 
to .our campus.
Better toilet paper would 
prompt students to feel more 
inclined to use the bathroom. 
Therefore, the switching of 
brands could help reduce the 
general constipation level on 
campus, making CMU a 
happier community. Also, 
with the amount of sitting 
CMU students do each day, 
there is certainly no advan
tage to sore rumps. The 
happier the rumps, the hap
pier students will be to sit 
(whether it be in a cluster, 
 the library, class, or pri
vate study area), the better 
their work will be.
The change would be dras
tic, so I know it cant happen 
overnight. Still, it could hap
pen. All of us: students, fac
ulty, and administration, need 
to work on this problem to
gether. Theres no reason that 
the porcelain wonder cant be 
the one issue to finally bring 
harmony to this campus.
Eric Salzman is acting Di
versions Editor.
Chicken salad reflects the problems of diversity
Kenneth J. Kraemer
I can remember those lunches at home when I was 
10.1 sat with my parents and any one to three of my 
siblings, and enjoyed a fresh chicken salad sandwich. 
I guess my parents thought it strange my affinity for 
chicken salad; I had acquired a taste for it at a pretty 
young age.
By my teenage years, I had found a particular 
chicken salad that I liked most. It was from the 
Duck-Pond Deli, in Huntington Village.
My brother, who worked there, told me of how 
Mrs. Stuppi made the garlicky-sweet salad from 
scratch; fresh barbecued chicken, crunchy celery, 
and cool, homemade mayonnaise. It was served 
on a round Kaiser roll with just the right amount 
of lettuce. And a pickle half-sour.
As much as I liked Mrs. Stuppis chicken salad,
I eventually moved on. The Community Market 
had opened not three minutes from my house. I 
tried their chicken salad sandwich one day in 
August, and found it to be just as good as Mrs. 
Stuppis. Although, perhaps, not as fresh.
After my successful experimentation with a 
new and different chicken salad, I became decreasingly attached to my favorites and tried the 
familiar variety of sandwich at a number of local 
delis. To my surprise, I found many of the 
sandwiches to be equally satisfying.
Then I moved to Pittsburgh, and sadly, to this 
day, I cannot to seem to find a satisfying chicken 
salad. Kanes Courtyard on Craig has a decent 
salad, but uses too much garlic.
The Yum-Yum Cafe, also on Craig, uses fresh 
pepper in their chicken salad. Though intriguing,
Im just not used to big chunks of pepper in my 
chicken salad.
Even our local retail services Co-op deli serves its 
version of chicken salad  far too wet  too much 
mayonnaise.
A friend of mine told me of a similar situation she 
experienced with bagels. It is fairly common knowl
edge that to get a good bagel, you should go to New
York, although New York holds no monopoly on the bagelmaking industry. So why is it so difficult to find a good 
bagel in Pittsburgh? Bageland bagels just dont cut it. 
Bunznudders bagels have the chewy-soft part down, but 
the actual outer texture and overall taste leave a lot to be 
desired. The only decent bagel Ive found is from Brueggers, 
which still does not capture the taste and style of a New 
York bagel. So, I came to a new city, some place Id never 
been before, and I expected everything to be the same as 
back home. Pittsburgh chicken salad should taste like 
Huntington chicken salad, and Pittsburgh bagels should 
taste like New York bagels.
everything, people included. A child raised in a predomi
nantly Caucasian environment leaves this homogenous 
area with the impression that everyone she or he meets 
will have the same cultural traits and values as she or he 
does.
Imagine the disillusionment the matured child expe
riences when she or he is thrust into a culturally diverse 
environment. How can the person possibly be expected 
to be objective in dealing with the people she or he 
meets?
I believe it is a fundamental choice that each person 
may make in his or her attitude whether to dismiss
To think this was an absurd assumption; instead of others as inferior, or to accept and embrace their differ
ences and learn from the 
interaction.
We all have a relevant 
and important contribution 
to make to society, and we 
cannot all contribute appro
priately if we do not first 
get past our differences.
These racial and ethnic 
differences in our society 
should not be the barriers 
and points of tension that 
they are, but should be as
sets to society; resources of 
different perspectives on 
societys issues.
If we are to succeed as a 
peaceful, truly equitable so
ciety, where all men and 
women are empowered to 
make meaningful and valu
able contributions to soci
ety, we must start with our 
children, and ensure that 
they are raised to value and 
perpetuate diversity. In ad
dition, we must all choose 
to appreciate the differences of a diverse society, and 
actively pursue and encourage such a diversity.
The co-ops chicken salad: A bastion of harmony?Jim Snyder/Acting Darkroom Manager
appreciating the softer texture of a Bunznudder bagel or 
the sweet taste of fresh pepper in Yum-Yums chicken 
salad, I decided they were inferior to what I was used to.
I dont think this assumptionis particular to me, though, 
nor is it particular to chicken salad and bagelsor food in 
general.
The truth is, this sort of assumption is made about
Ken Kraemer is a junior IM major and the Managing 
Editor of the Tartan. He looks forward to hearing from 
readers concerning their chicken salad finds around 
Pittsburgh.
A PERSONS
OPINION
Affirmative action is the 
buzzword on everyones lips. 
We wondered what everyone 
on campus thought of it, so 
we asked about four people. 
Heres what they answered 
to our question: What do you think of affirmative action?
Alex Derrick
Sophomore
H&SS
Affirmitive action is impor
tant because it allows for those 
disadvantaged to have an 
opportunity.
Winter Mason
Sophomore
Physics
I think it causes some segre
gation, which is bad, but also 
gives support to the minorities 
that need it.
Carl Trezza 
Junior
Professional Writing
No comment. It doesnt affect 
me.
Jim Snyder/Acting Darkroom Manager
Manoochehr Halatai
Sophomore
Math
Affirmitive action should be 
kept because it gives an advan
tage to the disadvantaged.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager........Amit Kar
Acting News Ed.......Jason Togyer
Acting Forum Editor... John Biggs 
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe'
.......................... Matthew Solitro,
Features Co-Eds.. Shannon Glbne,
....................Jonmichael L.T. Moy,
Acting Div. Editor.... Eric Salzman 
Dossier Dsgn. Ed.Brockett Horne:
.............................Jennifer Zieserl,
Dossier Lit. Ed... Adrlane Seibert. 
Art Co-Eds. ... Francine Gemperle
...........................Gabrien Symons
Photo Editor.. Andrew M'Dermott
Production Mgr.............Kathy LiuCopy Mgr..................Eric Strauss
Asst. News Ed......Sameer Karim
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Mgr............Jim Snyder
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball
Staffwriters 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Darren Chiapetta, Carey 
Clevenger, Tricia Davis, Gretel 
Gaal, Dan Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, 
Tom Harper, Jason Heinlein, 
Wladimir Labelkovsky, April C. 
Moate, Angela Molloy, Sudhir 
Reddy, James Stepanek, Paul 
Tabachneck, Bill Vandermark, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Susan Watson, 
Heather Zindle
Art
Mark Eggert, Ryan Rhoades
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Ramsey Hong, 
Jung Park, Jackson Tam, Daniel 
Yauger, Mike Yeh
Photo 
Yuzo Watanabe
Production 
Christine Brill, Esther Jimenez, 
Lester Manzano, Elizabeth Neuman, 
Victor Ortega, Derek Wahlla
Copy
Lori Bowes, Max Chittister, 
Madhav Ghanta, D. Renee 
Hairston, Winter Mason, Diane 
Ohm, Ed Slavishak, Richard 
Smolen, M. J. Wilson
Business 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Yosef Birnboim, Chris Cannon, 
Steve Charnoubi, Ayana Eli, Josh 
Freeman, Scott Hess, David Ko
ran, Rick Simmons, Gustavo 
Sganzerla, Aaron Weisberg
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
Inc. Subscriptions are available for the se
mester or academic year. The editorials ap
pearing at the beginning of the opinion sec
tion are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political car
toons are the opinions of individual creators. 
The Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors 
who are usually, but not necessarily, mem
bers of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone num
ber for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that let
ters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright  1995 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-
3890
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

The Best Way To Save Money 
On Stuff (Other Than Borrowing
Your Roommates). Roommates tend to get a little 
weird when you borrow their stuff. (Theyre funny like that.) Better to get
MasterC*
SHIS 3H5b 1SR0
0000 ssi 2/96 SXMy GLASER
yourself a MasterCard card. Then you could use it to 
buy the things you really want. And with these
College MasterValues coupons, youll save up to 40%. And until you get your
own place, its the smartest thing you can do. Roommates are weird enough
as it is. MasterCard. Its more than a credit card. Its smart money"
L
JCPenneyOptical Center
50% OFF ANY 
EYEGLASS FRAME
Save 50% on absolutely every eyeglass frame plus...bonus 
discount of S20 on our best lenses. Sale includes any eyeglass 
frame in stock when you purchase a complete pair of eyeglasses 
and use your MasterCard* Card. Lens discount applies to 
our best lenses. See optician for details. Coupon required.
Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard' Card.
Surrender coupon at time of purchase. Coupon has no cash 
value, and may not be combined with any coupon, discount,
Value Right package or vision care plan.
Limit one coupon per purchase. Sec optician for details.
Void where prohibited.ylfesterValuesT
TWEEDS
SAVE $10 ON 
WOMENS APPAREL
Simplicity, comfort and style... thats Tweeds.
Save on all Tweeds clothing and accessories. Call 
1-800-999-7997 and receive a FREE catalog with our latest 
styles. Place your order and save $10 on any purchase of $50 or 
more when you use your MasterCard* Card and mention the 
COLLEGE MasterValues* offer #C3WA.
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases 
using a MasterCard' Card and when the COLLEGE 
MasterValues* offer #C3WA is mentioned. Offer void where 
prohibited, taxed, or restricted. Coupon may not be combined 
with any other coupon or discount. Shipping and handling are 
extra. Umit one discount per purchase.
/1KT/IKVEDCollege Jewelry
SAVE UP TO $140
Your college ring, from ArtCarved, is a keepsake youll 
always treasure. Save $35 on 10K gold, $70 on 14K gold 
or $140 on 18K gold. Call 1-800-952-7002 for more details. 
Mention offer #9501.
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard' Card and whei 
offer #9501 is mentioned. Coupon may not be combined with 
any other coupon or discount. Shipping and handlingare extra. 
Limit one discount per purchase.
Some restrictions apply. Void where prohibited.
CAMELOT
Save $3 Off A CD
Heres music to your ears... save $3 on one regularly priced 
Compact Disc at $6.99 or more when you use your 
MasterCard* Card. Limit two $3 discounts per coupon, per 
purchase. Limit one $3 discount per box set purchase. Offer 
Not Valid Without This Coupon. COUPON #336
Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard* Card. Surrender 
coupon at time of purchase.
Coupon has no cash redemption value. Offer void where pro
hibited. taxed or restricted. Coupon may not be combined with 
any other discount. Discount not to exceed $6 per coupon.
Coupon not valid on sale merchandise.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
49% OFF A SPECIAL 
12-WEEK SUBSCRIPTION
Invest in your future and stay on top of current developments 
with The Wall Street Journal. For a limited time only, use your 
MasterCard* Card and pay just $23 for a 12-week 
subscription to the nations leading business publication.
To take advantage of this special offer, call 1-800-348-3555 
and please refer to source key 75NY.
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard* Card and 
when source key 75NY is mentioned.
Limit one subscription discount per person.
Void where prohibited.
TIMB W A R N I I
GET ONE VIDEO FREE 
WHEN YOU BUY THREE
Video values just for you! Enjoy a full selection of top-quality 
videos at discount prices. All videos are priced at $9.95 or less 
and are 100% satisfaction guaranteed. Act now and get one 
video FREE when you buy three and use your MasterCard* 
Card. Call 1-800-551-0262 for your FREE catalog and ask 
for the COLLEGE MasterValues* offer #1081-5999.
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases 
using a MasterCard* Card and when the COLLEGE 
MasterValues* offer #1081-5999 is mentioned.
Offer may not be combined with any other offer or discount. 
Offer valid for U.S. residents only. Void where prohibited.'AfetertfelueS
 11 hi 1I I
Box OF FIRE
VExcwfo9ation of Sony Mutic Enlnoii
SAVE 25%
Save 25% off the regular price of the Aerosmith collection, 
featuring all the original Columbia albums. BOX OF FIRE 
includes a previously-unreleased, 5-track bonus disc of 
Aero-rariries and hard-to-find gems including "Subway", "Circle 
Jerk" and more! Order now and get 12 CDs for $89.99. Call 
1-800-322-3412 and ask for the COLLEGE MasterValues* Offer.
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases using 
a MasterCard* Card and when the COLLEGE MasterValues* 
offer is mentioned. Offer may not be combined with any other 
discount. Shipping and handling 53.50 per purchase. Limit one 'ni --'w .s
discount per purchase. Sales tax applicable. Void where prohibited. 'festerNfelU-*
SAVE 20% 
Run into Hermans and save. Take 20% off your next purchase 
of regular priced merchandise when you use your MasterCard* 
Card. Find everything you need at Hermans... We Are Sports. 
Offer excludes certain merchandise. Coupon Required.
Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases using a 
MasterCard* Card. Surrender coupon at time of purchase. Offer excludes CrossWalk 
Plus, Cardio-Glide, all golf balls, select pro clubs, select Prince, Wilson, Head, 
Pro-Kennex and Ektelon rackets, select Nike and Reebok Prestige product, Fila,
Teva, Converse L.J., Asics 2001 and Rollerblade footwear, Team 
Division merchandise, hunting and fishing licenses, equipment 
services, home delivery and gift certificates. Offer may not be 
combined with any other discount or promotion. Limit one 
coupon per purchase. Coupon valid at any Hetmans location.
SPC #65. Void where prohibited.AfataVAieS'
WORDEXPRESSfor Windows
SAVE 40% ON WINDOWS 
WORD PROCESSOR
WordExpress makes it easy to create great looking reports, 
term papers, essays and more. Top of the line feature set, fost 
and easy to use. Includes professionally designed Resume 
Templates. Only $29.95 when you use your MasterCard* 
Card and mention offer WXO-MC. To order, call 
1-800-998-4555. Visit Us On The World Wide Web 
at http://delta.com/microv/home
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid 
only on purchases using a MasterCard* Card 
and when offer WXO-MC is mentioned.
Shipping and handling arc additional. Limit 
one discount per purchase. Void where prohibited.
JOIN AND SAVE $45
Join for only $15, instead of the regular $60 annual 
membership. Then enjoy FREE lift tickets and 
savings up to 50% on lift tickets, resort lodging and dining, 
etc., at top resorts East and West. A great gift for skiers/ 
snowboarders. Call 1-800-800-2SKI (2754) to join or for 
details and specials in your favorite areas and mention offer 
#15MCSKI. Plus look for us on the internet at 
URL http://www.skicard. com/skicard
Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard* Card and when 
the #15MCSKI is mentioned. Details on skier discounts listed 
95/96 "Savings Guide" included with each membership.
Houn: Mon-Fri. 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Mui time.
Void where prohibited.'EfesieiVattf*
H i ""W3BI
50% OFF FILM PROCESSING
Hold on to the good times and your money, too.
Take 50% off the regular price of processing and printing on 
the first set of prints at MotoPhoto, when you use your 
MasterCard* Card. Call 1-800-733-6686 for the location 
nearest you. Limit 1. Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon.
Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Cash redemption value 1/20*.
Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard* Card. Surrender coupon at time of 
purchase. Limit one coupon per purchase. Cannot be combined with 
any other offers or discounts. MotoPhoto Club Members are enti
tled to take 10% off the coupon price. Offer valid on C-41 
process, 35 mm film, and standard size prints only. Offer valid at 
participating stores only.
Void where prohibited.
THE SHARPER IMAGE
SAVE 15% ON YOUR NEXT 
PURCHASE OF $75 OR MORE
Shopping is easy at Americas premier specialty retailer of gift, 
fitness, recreational, travel, apparel and more. Save 15% on a 
purchase of $75 or more when you shop at any of our 
75 store locations or by mail order. Call 1-800-344-4444,
24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to find the store nearest you 
or for a FREE catalog.
Coupon Required. Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only on 
purchases using a MasterCard* Card. There arc a limited number of items to which this 
offer does not apply. May not be combined with Frequent Buyers'" Program, Price 
Matching Policy, auction purchases, or other discounts or promotions.
Not valid on purchase of gift certificates or on previous purchases.
The discount is applicable to, and the minimum purchase based / 
on current merchandise prices only, and excludes tax, shipping ' 
and tax on shipping. Void where prohibited. POS CODE: L
O 1995 MasterCard International Incorporateli

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 90, Issue 2The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania11 September 1995
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photographer 
Sophomore halfback Chris Neupaver avoids a Gator tackier in Saturday night's game against Allegheny.lSs0SCa 2M8Cg2 6i 
0MrU, 9ppgU,gCi 0gS1
By DARREN CHIAPPETTA
Tartan Staffwriter
Saturdays game between Allegheny and 
Carnegie Mellon appeared to be a prime opportu
nity for the Tartans. Even though they had a fivegame winless streak against the Gators dating 
back to 1987, Allegheny was weaker this year, or so 
it had been said. They graduated 16 starters from 
last seasons 10-1 team, including two-time Divi
sion III All-American quarterback Paul Bell.
But if it was Allegheny that was ripe for the 
picking, it was the Tartans who got plucked. Aided 
by five CMU turnovers and an outstanding perfor
mance by sophomore quarterback Kyle Adamson, 
the Gators amassed nearly 450 yards in total 
offense on their way to an easy 34^7 win in front of 
2,473 fans at Gesling Stadium.
Carnegie Mellon shot itself in the foot early and 
often, with two turnovers in the first quarter lead
ing to Allegheny field goals. Whenever the Tartans 
gained some momentum, they made a crucial mis
take, and the well-coached Gators would make 
them pay. CMU Head Coach Rich Lackner was 
disappointed with the teams performance.
We played extremely poorly, he said. You cant 
do the things we did and expect to beat a good 
football team.
As badly as Carnegie Mellon played, Allegheny 
played just as well. Adamson, making his first 
varsity start, played like a veteran, completing 19 
of 23 passes for 250 yards and four touchdowns. In 
one stretch spanning the second and third quar
ters, Adamson completed 13 consecutive passes, 
just four short of the Division III record set in 1990 
by former Tartan quarterback Bill Snyder.
He didnt make mistakes, said CMU senior 
linebacker Tom Bender, and when we did, he 
capitalized on them.
Carnegie Mellons bad luck began on the games 
opening series. First, a holding penalty on the 
kickoff backed the Tartans up to their own nineyard line. Then, although their first two plays from 
scrimmage netted 10 yards and a first down, the 
Tartans lost their two offensive captains.
Senior tight end Aaron Neal, who had been 
honored on national television earlier in the day as 
the Division III Academic All-American of the 
week, broke his fibula on the first play. Mike 
Mathias, the senior halfback who scored twice and 
led the Tartans in rushing last week, broke his foot 
on the following play, leaving CMU without two of 
its biggest offensive weapons and, more impor
tantly, two of its leaders.
I dont know what affect it had on the team, but 
anytime you lose both your captains, it has to 
shake you a little bit, Neal said.
With Mathias and Neal on the sidelines, the 
Tartans moved only eight yards after their initial 
first down and were forced to punt. Thats when 
Adamson took over.
On Alleghenys first offensive play of the season, 
the sophomore found tight end Nathan Six for a 41 - 
yard completion, moving the ball to Carnegie 
Mellons 19. Three plays later, the Gators were in 
the end zone, courtesy of a beautifully-thrown ball 
by Adamson. On third down from the 14, Adamson 
zipped a sideline out pass to Ronnie Anderson just 
in front of lunging Tartan senior cornerback Rob 
Locke. Anderson hauled it in at the five and waltzed 
into the end zone for a quick 7-0 lead.
The Tartan defense was back on the field quickly 
after senior fullback Lee Antons fumble on CMUs 
next play from scrimmage set up the Gators at the 
Carnegie Mellon 15. The defense held, however, 
forcing a 21-yard Jake Merski field goal, and mid
way through the first quarter, Allegheny led, 10-0.
It was more of the same for the Tartans on their 
next offensive possession. After a roughing the 
kicker call set CMU up in fairly good field position, 
senior quarterback Keith Dickerson threw the first 
of his two interceptions on the night. Allegheny 
cashed in early in the second quarter on a Merski 
field goal from 39 yards, for a 13-0 lead.
Dickerson and sophomore receiver Ricco Parrish
seemed to be having communication problems sev
eral times in the first half, with one frequently 
misreading what the other was supposed to be 
doing. Consequently, Dickerson overthrew Parrish 
on more than one occasion, leading to both of the 
quarterbacks interceptions.
None was more costly than when the Tartans, 
down 130, drove deep into Gator territory late in 
the first half. Four plays after senior punter Frank 
Triggiani completed a pass to Locke on a fake punt 
to give CMU a first down inside Alleghenys 30, 
Dickerson tossed one well over Parrishs head into 
the back of the end zone, where Gators cornerback 
Pat McMahon cradled the ball for his second inter
ception of the night.
With 1:21 to go in the half, it looked like Allegh
eny would be content to run out the clock. However, 
after junior tailback Kyle Smesko broke off a 32- 
yard run on the first play of the drive, Allegheny 
went for the kill. With two receptions each by 
Anderson and Six, Allegheny moved 80 yards in 
seven plays, with Adamson throwing to Six for an 
eight-yard touchdown with 0:09 remaining, giving 
the Gators a 20-0 halftime lead.
Lackner indicated that the turn of events at the 
end of the half may have been the backbreaker for 
the Tartans, but he was quick to spread the blame 
evenly.
That was a little bit of a killer. We were knock
ing on the door, [and] it was a 14-point swing. [But] 
this loss was a team effort, all the way around. We 
dont blame a loss like this on one kid.
In all, the Tartans turned the ball over three 
times in the first half, leading to 13 Allegheny 
points. Adamson was a staggering 14 of 16 for 146 
yards and two TDs in the first 30 minutes of play.
Bad got worse for CMU on Alleghenys first drive 
of the second half. On a second-and-10 play from 
their own 44, Adamson came down the line of 
scrimmage as if to run the option, then took one 
step back and fired a bullet to Anderson, who 
caught the ball at the Tartan 40 and outraced the 
Carnegie Mellon secondary to the end zone for his 
second score of the night and a 27-0 cushion.
Late in the third quarter, CMU was able to 
extend its Division III record by scoring in their 
217th consecutive game, as Dickerson capped off a 
6-minute, 23-second drive with a leap over the top 
for a one-yard touchdown run. Dickerson looked 
sharp in the series, completing two of three for 31 
yards, including a 28-yard completion to sopho
more Chris Neupaver, filling in for the injured 
Mathias.
Allegheny used much of the fourth quarter to 
show off their huge offensive line, which averages 
250 pounds, running the ball almost exclusively in 
the final stanza. With 9:14 to go in the game, 
however, Adamson went back to the air and threw 
his fourth touchdown of the night, a perfectlyplaced 30-yard toss to John Jones down the far 
sideline for the games final points.
In addition to Adamsons fine performance, the 
Gators also had their way on the ground, with 
Smesko leading the way with nine carries for 86 
yards. The Gators totaled 444 yards on the night.
On the Carnegie Mellon side, the quarterback 
rotation that worked so well last week was largely 
ineffective. Dickerson finished the game 5 for 12 
for 63 yards and two interceptions, while senior 
Dave Soltysik was 5 for 14 for 54 yards. In fairness, 
it should be noted that both signal callers were 
plagued by dropped passes. Dickerson finished as 
the top ground-gainer for the Tartans, picking up 
24 yards on seven carries.
If there is one saving grace the Tartans can take 
from this loss, it is the fact that it comes in just the 
second week of the season. The playoffs, always the 
primary goal for CMU, are still within reach, but 
the Tartans will likely have to go undefeated the 
remainder of the season. Lackner and his troops 
will attempt to start that streak this Saturday at 
Gesling against Rhodes College at 7:30 pm.
I asked our kids not to quit on us, and we told 
them we wouldnt quit on them. We just have to go 
out there and regroup next week.
4M1gCJa aM..gs pMaga 
,gSs06sgS-gs 0M VSag
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
The womens soccer team split their games this 
past week, losing a close one to Case Western 
Reserve University, but dominating Waynesburg 
College earlier in the week.
The team team lost a heartbreaking match on 
Saturday at Case. The 1-0 loss came after a long, 
hard battle that went to the final seconds of a 
double overtime period.
Both teams started the game slow, and had 
trouble putting together offensive drives. CWRU 
controlled the ball for the majority of the first 
half. CMUs defense performed very well, break
ing up drives to their net, but the team couldnt 
seem to keep it out of their territory for very long.
After halftime, CMU came alive, pushing hard jump up just as the ball came in, catching it with 
into the CWRU defensive line. The Tartans were her fingertips. Time ran out on the clock, still
jumping kick that sailed back over her head but 
went just wide of the net and an astonished 
goalie. The remainder of the time in the second 
half was spent with the Tartans and Spartans 
exchanging possession and taking turns threat
ening the others defensive team.
As the two teams entered the first overtime 
period, CWRU again put CMU on the defensive. 
Again, Case Western was defeated by the Tartan 
defense, but managed to keep the ball deep in 
CMU territory for much.of the overtime period. 
As the clock began running down again, CMU 
had another close shot on the CWRU goal. Again, 
the CWRU goalie fell to the ground while block
ing a shot, leaving the ball rolling across the front 
of an open goal. Umeda shot the ball hard at the 
center of the goal, but the goalie managed to
running the CWRU defense ragged, as they 
managed to quickly reverse many of Case 
Westerns offensive pushes, and kept up the 
attack in the first part of the second half. Yet the 
CWRU defense continually broke up plays to
ward their net, leaving both teams bunched up 
and unable to make plays.
Toward the end of the half, CMU put together 
a very well-organized attack. Crossing the 
midfield line, senior midfielder Maria Casella 
passed the ball to 
freshman midfielder 
Catherine Duda. Un
der pressure from the 
CWRU defense, Duda 
passed back to 
Casella, who passed it 
to sophomore forward 
Kim Umeda. Umeda 
shot on goal, but it was 
blocked by a defender 
and rolled out, seem
ingly stealing the life 
from CMUs offensive 
drive. However, on the 
throw-in from sopho
more midfielder/ 
forward Lauren DeRosset, Umeda per
formed a dramatic
leaving a scoreless game.
Most of the final overtime period was marked 
by hard fighting at midfield for possession of the 
ball and strong Tartan offensive pushes. In the 
last five minutes, the tide turned against CMU 
as Case Western began a series of powerful 
drives deep in the Tartans backfield. Off of a 
CWRU comer kick, the ball rolled free across the 
front of the goal, but the Tartans cleared the ball 
Please see SOCCER, page 12
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Sophomore midfielder Lauren DeRossett dribbles downfield with two 
Waynesburg players following close behind her.
Mens soccer battles through pair of overtime matches
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Sports Co-Editor 
& RICK SIMMONS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The mens soccer team is still in search of their 
first win this season after a pair of overtime matches. 
They opened the season with a tie against cross
town rival Point Park College, and then dropped 
their first UAA match to Case Western Reserve 
University.
The team is showing its inexperience, with four 
freshman starters and upperclassmen who arent 
used to their leadership positions. As the team 
gains experience this season, their skill and deter
mination are sure to put them back on the winning 
track.
On Saturday afternoon, the Tartans traveled to 
Cleveland for their first UAA matchup of the sea
son with Case. The Spartans got on the board first, 
but the Tartans were able to send it into overtime 
with a goal in the closing minutes. However, a few 
defensive breakdowns allowed CWRU to score twice 
in overtime to end the match with a 31 loss for 
Carnegie Mellon University.
The Tartans controlled the ball for a greater
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photographer 
Junior defender Rich Herr charges down the line past a Point 
Park player in their match last Monday.
portion of the first half, and they had quite a 
number of free kicks and corner kicks. However, 
they were not able to get off many good shots on net. 
On the opposite end, occasional defensive break
downs allowed Case to take a few good shots on 
freshman goalkeeper Justin Petro.
After a scoreless first half, the second half was a 
bit more open, with neither team controlling the 
game. CWRU was able to tally more shots, and 
with nine minutes remaining, sophomore midfielder 
Niall Casey of Case headed in a cross from a free 
kick.
Weve got to foul less, said Head Coach Nick 
Gaudioso. They [Case] got their first goal becase of 
a foul.
Tempers started to flare near the end of the game 
due to some questionable refereeing. Then, with 
time winding down, the Tartans breathed a sigh of 
relief as a shot by senior midfielder Alan Levin was 
deflected into the goal by a Case defender. Regula
tion ended with the teams tied at one.
The Tartans seem to come alive in overtime, only 
to allow a goal with two minutes remaining in the 
first half of overtime.
Gaudioso attempted to spark his team with a 
couple of substitutions for the second half of over
time, but the Spartans struck quickly. In 
the first minute, sophomore midfielder 
Suleman Al-Ajaji of Case scored on a 
charging, sliding Petro to put the game 
out of reach for the Tartans. CMU lost by 
a final score of 3-1.
I did see hard work the entire game, 
said Gaudioso. Thats what we need right 
now.
The Tartans fought hard against Point 
Park College last Monday, but the game 
wound up tied 22 after regulation and 
two 15-minute overtime periods.
It looked as though the game was going 
heavily in favor of the Tartans, with their 
first goal coming after only about three 
minutes of play. Sophomore forward Akira 
Imai placed a corner kick right to the top 
of Point Parks penalty box, setting up 
Levin with a header into the back of the 
net. The Tartans continued to dominate 
the middle of the field for about the first 
20 minutes.
However, Point Park got an opportu
nity about halfway into the first half. The 
Please see OVERTIME, page 11

---------------------------------------------------

bWThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 1995
Junior inside linebacker Ray Ardire 
was honored as the UAA's Defensive 
Player-of-the-Week for his performance 
in the 27-8 match-up against Franklin 
& Marshall College last week. Ardire 
had 14 tackles, 11 solo tackles, and a 
pass deflection.
Freshman Kristo Kriechbaum was 
named the UAAs Male Cross Country 
Runner-of-the-Week for his 26:00 firstplace finish in CMUs 19-48 win over 
California of Pennsylvania.
Junior Becky Buchheit was honored 
as the UAA's Female Cross Country 
Runner-of-the-Week for her 20:00 firstplace finish in the tri-meet against Cali
fornia of Pennsylvania and the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh-Johnstown, where the 
Tartans defeated the teams 17-38 
and 15-50 respectively.
This weekend, the men's and 
womens cross country teams partici
pated in the California Invitational. In 
both the mens and womens races, 
Slippery Rock claimed the first place 
position, and CMU came in second. 
Otherteams competing in the womens 
; racewere WheelingJesuit College, Cali fomia University of Pennsylvania, St. 
Vincents College, Alderson Broaddus 
College, University of PittsburghJohnstown, Carlow College, Fairmont 
State University and Glenville State 
University. The men defeated Glenville,
 California, Wheeling Jesuit, Alderson 
Broaddus, St. Vincent's, and Concordia 
University.
The CMU Baseball team, which is 
now 3-6, played a double-header 
against Franciscan University this past 
weekend, where the Tartans won 11-4 
. and 8-3. In the first game, CMU had 12 
hits while Franciscan had seven. The 
winning pitcher was senior Tom 
. OFarrell, who pitched five innings. In 
, the second match-up, CMU had 10 hits 
; over Franciscans five. The winning 
; pitcherwas sophomore Jay McCormack,
 who pitched a complete game with 
! seven strikeouts and only two walks.
Complied by 
PAUL BOOTHE
Turf contains hidden costs
Gridiron Grapevine
by Steve Chamoubi
Oh, Astroturf.
These were the first words that came 
out of Ki-Jana Carters mouth as soon as 
he found out that he was drafted as the 
top overall pick by the Cincinnati 
Bengals. Its almost as if Ki-Jana knew 
then that the turf at Cincinnatis 
Riverfront Stadium would sideline him 
for his entire rookie season.
Astroturf is the green grass-like car
pet that covers half of the playing fields 
in the NFL. Gesling Stadium here at 
CMU uses Astroturf on its athletic field, 
along with Pittsburghs Three Rivers 
Stadium, and most mini-golf courses 
across the country.
Astroturf allows a stadium to hold 
plenty of sporting and recreational 
events with only a minimal amount of 
maintenance required. It can be used 
year-round and can cover up the dirt 
areas on a baseball field to convert it into 
a football or soccer field. Another char
acteristic of Astroturf fields are the socalled turf injuries.
In the 1950s, the leading cause of 
injuries to offensive and defensive line
men was low chop-blocks to the knees 
and legs. The NFL took action and pro
hibited low blocks. In the 1970s, the 
leading cause of injuries to linebackers 
and defensive backs was spearing, tack
ling with the helmet. Spearing was soon 
abolished. This year, the NFL is trying 
to crack down on late hits on the quar
terbacks. For the past five decades the 
NFL has been making rules to protect 
players from getting injured by other 
players.
Today, the leading cause of major in
juries to players comes not from the
opposing team, but from the ground the 
players run on.
Astroturf is a harder surface than 
grass, so getting tackled on turf causes 
players to get more banged up and 
bruised. The worst feature of turf, 
though, is how adhesive it is. The turf 
will literally cling to the bottom of a 
planted foot. During the Steelers home 
opener, on an attempt to tackle Barry 
Sanders, Rod Woodson, the Steelers AllPro comerback, tried to cut back outside 
by planting his right leg into the turf. 
His leg stuck, and before he could free 
his leg, his knee gave way, and he tore 
his anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). 
This is the same injury that took out KiJana Carter after his third-ever NFL 
carry. This is also the same injury suf
fered by a leading administrator last fall 
while playing soccer on the ar
tificial turf. Several 
other people have 
gotten injured 
running on 
the turf at f 
Gesling sta- \ 
dium.
I was run
ning back an in
terception. All I 
had was one guy 
left to beat. I 
planted my right leg into the turf 
to cut left. All of a sudden my foot 
shifted a few feet and then stuck to the 
turf. My knee buckled. I heard a pop, 
and the next thing I knew was that I 
snapped my ACL, explained Jay Blanco, 
a comerback for the 69ers, a CMU intra
mural football team. I know at least six 
other people who got injured the same 
way.
Playing on turf takes some getting 
used to. Players have to try to remember 
not to cut too hard and not to shift all of 
their weight to one leg when they cut. 
The problem is that in the middle of a 
game, trying to remember how to turn is 
not the most important thing on a 
players mind.
Owners use Astroturf to save money, 
Please see TURF, page 11
fM8p aia0g1 hSp0gsa
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
Every year a group of portly, coffeedrinking sports journalists and coaches 
vote for the NCAA Division I football 
champion. College football games and 
columns are ignored because the fans see 
little point when a group of sportswriters 
is going to determine the national cham
pion anyway. Democracy is great and all, 
but theres only so much of it I can take.
College basketball is huge because they 
have one last, bigeverybodys-invited 
tournament, where tiny schools like 
Western Kentucky have the chance 
and talent to take on mighty 
Michigan.
In comparison, col
lege football contin
ues to flounder. 
Improvements 
have been 
made in the
Ryan Rhoads/Tartan Art Staff
bowl system, but it still has no 
true national championship. College 
football is an odd sport where your team 
can go undefeated and still not win a 
championship, as Penn State fans discov
ered last season. This year, another team 
may be robbed of its chance for several 
reasons.
The team to watch for is Florida State, 
which has never lost a game in the ACC. 
Their only difficult games are against a 
declining Miami team and Florida, who 
they traditionally beat. Even if they lose
one of these games, they will probably be 
respected enough to earn a high enough 
ranking to play in the national champion
ship, as they did in 1993. They are cur
rently ranked number one and should be 
playing in the Fiesta Bowl.
The big party will be held at the Fiesta 
Bowl, because that is where the bowl coa
lition has decided this years national 
championship will be played. The bow] 
coalition is a group of old men  and old 
women, I presume  who are chairmen of 
the bowl games. The bowl games are all 
played on or around January 1. For the 
past few years the coalition has collabo
rated to try to insure a national champion
ship in one of their bowls and big money in 
one of their pockets.
The championship game is now a con
test that takes turns at different bowls 
every year. It tries and fails to make the 
top two teams play each other. However, 
there is no guarantee that this game will 
feature either of the top two teams. Why: 
Two words: Rose Bowl.
The Rose Bowl is not part of the bowl 
coalition. It is an annual New Years Daj 
matchup between the regular season win
ner of the Pac-10 conference and the Bi[ 
Ten. The winners of these two conference J 
are not eligible to play in another bow! 
game, though schools that did not win the 
conference play in other bowl games. If the 
following scenario shapes up, the bow! 
coalition will be foiled.
The big day to watch for is November 18 
On this day the University of Califomi; 
at Los Angeles and the University o 
South CaHfomia will meet for their regu 
lar season finale. UCLA recently trouncei 
the University of Miami, 31-8. This i 
important because UCLA is in the Pac-10 
and Miami was the loser of the national 
championship game last year.
The Bruins look good this year and are 
set to go undefeated until they play inter
city rival USC. The Spartans are highlj 
touted, after virtually disappearing in th( 
1980s. USC, also a member of the Pac-10 
is Sports Illustrateds pick to win the na
tional championship. Whoever wins the 
Please see BOWL, page 11
Students: Talk with representatives from more than 60 companies. Bring your 
resum, find out about permanent and summer fob opportunities.
Dust off your dress clothes and see what's here!
-W**1 0B^ci>s
a'0"'SVass#-**
a"V*c='p'
1Cbo*
..o'0*'
Gene
i**?
*5
Hfeko<''*'
pe*c  Go111 
quo'"'"
U.S.V.a-ri1dn>WeS
Gore0
tS\Mnd\o guitte
5p'oosove-aw
CW
/

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 1995bb
Rose Bowl crews up hampionship
;OWL, continued from page 10
rame wiil be highly-ranked and 
vill probably win the Pac-10. If 
ihis happens, the winner will next 
ilay the Big Ten champion in the 
,ose Bowl.
How strong is the Big Ten? In 
,heir season opener, the Northestem Wild Cats, the perennial 
oormats, beat Notre Dame, preiously ranked in the top 10. 
'urdue beat number 23 West 
Virginia 26-24 in their opener 
and nearly knocked off Notre 
Dame this week. Ohio State, con
sidered the third-best team in 
the conference, is nationally 
rankednumber nine.
The Michigan Wolverines have 
not been 3-0 since 1986, but they 
easily tallied their third win this 
week. The Wolverines may not be 
stopped until they meet Penn 
State. The Nittany Lions, unde
feated last year, could be unde
feated again when they play 
Michigan. The Penn State-Michigan matchup is also on Novem
ber 18. The winner will look very 
impressive and will probably win 
the Big Ten.
Besides the situation of the Rose 
Bowl, there is the threat of the 
SEC. Auburn comes off a twoyear NCAA probation that has 
prevented them from playing in 
I bowl games. They have lost only 
j one game over the last two years 
| under Terry Bowden, now entering his third year as the Tigers 
:head coach.
Cross-state rival Alabama is 
j going onto probation this year 
and cannot participate in any 
bowls. If the Crimson Tide plays 
like the Tigers did on probation, 
they could ruin the chances of 
any SEC team playing for a na
tional title. When do Alabama 
and Auburn play each other this 
season? November 18.
What all this means is that the 
alleged national championship 
game that the bowl coalition has 
fabricated may not include the 
top two teams in the country. A 
team with two losses could wind 
up in the Fiesta Bowl. Its a shame 
that the championship will be 
settled on the desk of a pencil 
pusher, instead of on the grid
iron.
I have switched my column to 
college football coverage, so ex
pect predictions and thinly-veiled 
attempts to get attention in the 
weeks to come.
Chris Cannon is a sophomore 
computer science major who also 
has thinly-veiled attempts at 
sleeping, studying, and program
ming.
lrsh ,rs0a gC0Isg pgSUrg
TURF, from page 10
but in reality, they lose money. The 
amount of money an NFL team makes 
is directly related to how good the 
team is. Playoff teams usually sell-out 
theirgamesandmakealotmore money 
in merchandise than non-playoff 
teams. If a team starts losing its star 
players, the team starts playing worse, 
and the owner loses money.
Of all the season-endingiryuries over 
the past five years, about 82 percent 
happened on artificial turf. 85 percent 
of the players in the NFL prefer play
ing on grass to turf, and in this age of 
free-agency having a grass field may 
make the difference to where a player 
will sign. Before he signed with the 
Dolphins, Steve Emtman said that he
would only play on a grass field.
Pittsburgh and Philadelphia, both 
of which have turf fields, claim that 
taking care of grass fields in the north 
in winter is impossible, despite the 
fact that Cleveland and Chicago, two 
other cold-weather cities, have no 
problems taking care of grass fields.
Hopefully the league will do some
thing to try to prevent turf injuries. 
Otherwise, players are going to keep 
on receiving turf-related injuries. Its 
just like Rod Woodson said: Ive 
played on_turf for nine years, and 
sooner or later its going to grab you."
Steve Charnoubi is a sophomore 
who just set the gearshift to the high 
gear of his soul.
lgCCIa 0gS1a 8IC 6IU
CL
lSs0SCa agg-ICU hIsa0 8IC
OVERTIME, continued from page 9
Tartan midfielders got caught upfield 
and couldnt make it back to help out on 
defense. An opposing forward took ad
vantage of the situation, tying the score 
at one goal apiece.
We had about three guys walking at 
a time when only one should have been, 
said Gaudioso. Control of the ball was 
about even between the two teams for 
the remainder of the game.
About 20 minutes into the second half, 
sophomore midfielder Jason Buelow 
headed a ball to the overlapping right 
midfielder, fifth-year senior Chuck Kuba, 
who put it away to give the Tartans the 
lead once again.
But then, with less than a minute to 
play in regulation, a Point Park 
midfielder sent a cross in front of the 
net,where it deflected off a Point Park
forward, leaving the Tartan goaltender 
virtually no chance.
The overtime periods were very in
tense. Both teams hit a goalpost once, 
and a Point Park player received a 
yellow card. However, no goals were 
scored.
The team lost freshman goaltender 
Brad McNutt who left the game after 
10 minutes with a knee injury. He 
should be back in action again this 
week.
Weve got a long way to go, said 
Gaudioso. The only way to get better is 
to get experience.
This week, the Tartans will square 
off against a tough squad from Tennes
see, Maryville College on Thursday 
night at 7:30 pm. Then this Saturday, 
they will host the University of Chicago 
for a UAA matchup at 11 am.
By SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens and womens tennis teams began 
the 1995-96 season with victories and have 
remained undefeated so far. The womens 
record is 5-0 while the mens record is 1-0.
The top eight players for the womens team 
are: freshmen Keri Mills, Karin Tuxen, Jillian 
Watkins, Julie Balch, andMiklaneFedorowich, 
junior Michelle Cook, and seniors 
Miriam Huang and Namita 
Amin. The top three seeded play
ers are freshmen. Team captain 
Miriam Huang commented on 
the new line-up, Were lucky to 
have a wonderful group of players 
and with our record being at 50, were very 
confident.
The womens first match occurred two 
weeks ago at Bethany College. Using the new 
line-up, the team won a 9-0 sweep. Mills, 
Tuxen, Watkins, Amin, Cook, Fedorowich, 
and Balch all contributed to the victory.
The next match was at Seton Hill where 
the team dominated another opponent 
en route to a 9-0 victory.
Although the team was chal
lenged by their next opponent,
Grove City, the team still 
prevailed 6-3.
The final two matches oc
curred at Frostburg College 
in West Virginia. The team 
played Frostburg and Juniata Colleges. Again 
the team performed well by winning both 
matches convincingly.
With such an impressive start, Huang said 
that this could be contending team in the 
UAA. We put last season behind us and we 
are prepared for a new season. This is a close 
team and will be able to challenge any oppo
nent we play. Huang also felt that the teams 
overall strength will play a factor for a success
ful season.
Ryan Rhoads/
Tartan Art Staff
Amin agreed and stated that other 
teams will look at CMU as more of a 
challenge. Amin also said that there have 
been a lot of positive changes for this 
years team. We are more structured and 
organized in our practices and schedules. 
The practices have a team atmosphere 
[rather than an] individual one.
The mens first match also occurred at 
Frostburg where they won 9-0. The team 
lost three seniors from last year, so 
many younger players from last 
year have had to step up. The 
top players for the mens team 
are sophomores Navroze 
S Marshall, James Freese, and 
Dan Bilco, freshman Amit 
Jaipuria, junior Vijay Nayak, 
and senior Brandon Lai.
* Number two seed Marshall 
felt that this team could be a 
contending team if things are 
done right. Its bad to lose se
niors but well step up. Our 
first match wasnt a good 
judgment on our teams abil
ity, but were getting there. 
Marshall said that the fall 
season will give good preparation 
for the team. Well play in a few big 
tournaments so we will get an 
idea for what the opponents are 
like in the spring. Based on last 
seasons impressive record, Marshall felt 
that this years team has a good target and 
could perhaps be better than last year.
The mens team next plays this Thurs
day at home against Allegheny College. 
The match continues a rivalry between 
the two teams in which CMU has lost the 
two previous close matches. The women 
play this evening against Westminster 
College. Huang said that Westminster is a 
strong team and should be an interesting 
opponent for CMU.
i
Peace Corps
at Carnegie Mellon
Thursday, September 14th 
Information Meeting:6:30pm 
Student Union, Room 206 
Apply NOW for assignments leaving next summer
For 35 years, 150,000 
Peace Corps Volunteers have 
put their idealism into action. 
Now it's your turn.
For more information call: 1-800-424-8580
xE4 woxF9mF woxFed
Looking for the coolest used 
CDs in Pittsburgh? Bop on 
over to CD Trader. We have 
over 10,000 titles, ranging 
from Afropop to Zydeco.
Plus new discs, rare releases 
and imports. You might even 
find that slightly used jazz 
classic you've been looking 
for. If not? Hey, with our 
great selection, you can 
always improvise.
I [TRADER. Used CDs At Record Prices
201 South Craig St., Oakland, 687-6626
1995 Fall Triathlon
September 17,9:00 am
e4ow PbGO mile A 500 yds. 
fo'F N bW miles 
kcH N ?db miles
Prizes in Categories All-Male, All-Female, and Co-Ed Teams and 
Individual Categories
Applications available from the athletic 
department & the Student Info Desk 
Deadline September 13
Funded by the Student Activities Fee and Athletics
w,
Get your teams and mark your calendars! 
Don't Have a Team? We'll try and mate you! 
Call 268-8140
egie

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 1995The new Iron HorseCal Ripken Jr. breaks 56-year-old record
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffwriter
There are few unselfish people left in baseball. Whether we watch 
them on (TV or go to the ballpark, money, owners, deals, free agency, 
and the debate over the designated hitter take precedence over 
character. What we have lost is the game itself: The all-American 
sport. There was a time when players were regular guys who 
were farmers in the off-season, and kids could hang out in the 
player parking lot and get advice about their swing. Cal Ripken 
Jr., the Baltimore Orioles shortstop who made baseball history 
last Wednesday, symbolizes what the game is all about, and 
gives new hope to a country whose thoughts of baseball are no 
longer optimistic.
Any kid who grew up in Maryland was an Orioles fan, and 
every kid knew who Cal was. His father was an Oriole before 
him, and his brother was playing second base with him. Ripken 
began his consecutive games streak in March of1982 and since 
then has barely missed an inning. After 13 years of play, Ripken 
played game number 2,131 on September 6, breaking the 2,130 
game record held by the Hall of Fame first baseman Lou Gehrig, 
who retired from the game in 1939.
Arriving at Camden Yards on Wednesday was surreal. Three 
hours before game time the parking lots were full. Driving down 
Russell street to approach the Yard, men and women, fathers, 
sons, and daughters held signs that said, need one ticket, this 
is my dream, drove all night, came in from Chicago, please 
sell me a ticket. Inside the park, young boys and girls stood at 
the left field wall trying to get autographs while the Orioles, 
including Cal, took batting practice. This was not your typical 
baseball game. On the third-base line next to the opposing
pitcher in the majors, Mike Mussina, was starting, and a rookie was 
playing left field in Brady Andersons usual domain, our thoughts 
were with Cal and we got more out of him then we expected. In the 
fourth inning on a 3-0 count, Ripken blew one into left field for 
another home run. Still our eyes were on the warehouse wall. A 
baseball game is official once it hits the middle of the fifth inning, and 
thats when Ripken would become a legend.
Angela Molloy/Tartan Staffwriter 
Fans enter the stadium early to see Cal Ripken Jr.'s 2131st consecutive game.
teams dugout, 260 seats worth $5,000 each were placed right on the
dugout again and again onto the field by his teammates, Ripken 
waved to the crowd in appreciation. Home Team Sports coverage for 
the monitors in the seats showed Ripken mouthing the words no 
more, no more. The cheering would last 22 minutes, 15 seconds (said 
the Washington Post the next day) and the emotion would only 
escalate as Ripken took a lap around the field to shake hands with 
the fans.
This game was not about numbers, it was not about going to 
Cooperstown. It was about a man who plays baseball because 
he loves the game. Ripken is not a showman, he is not putting 
up a front. He was raised in Maryland and dreamed of playing 
for his home team, which he always has. He has a wife and two 
children whom he loves dearly. He signs autographs after 
games until his hand hurts while other players have gone home.
The streak has had its critics. Ripken shouldnt be putting 
his personal goals ahead of his teams goals, some of my friends 
have said. But think about it. Hes out there every day for the 
team. Hes one of nine on the field, and the team has to work 
together to win the game. Ripken doesnt stay on the bench 
when he doesnt feel 100 percent, hes out there so his team 
knows they can count on him. Ripken is also such a skilled and 
calculated player that he has not been seriously injured since he 
started playing. Hes been an All-Star and an MVP numerous 
times.
In post-game ceremonies, Ripken thanked his parents for 
inspiring him and supporting him. He thanked his fans and his 
wife. But the fans at Camden on Wednesday were really 
thanking Cal for being who he is and showing up for work every 
day to play the game he loves. He made us feel like close friends 
and we were privileged to be able to share such a moment with 
him. Baseball needed Ripken right now to bring us back and
grass. Secret Service lined the roof in preparation for the arrival of spotlight shone on the wall, sparklers were set off from the top of the 
President Clinton and Vice-President Gore, but what everyone was Yard and fireworks went off in left. Flash bulbs from cameras 
watching were the numbers draped on the side of the B&O Ware- flickered through the stands and the boy sitting next to me asked, is 
house. this real? This was Cals moment. When the number one of the 2,131
The game didnt matter that evening. Even though the winningest was unveiled, there was not a dry eye in the park. Pushed from the
On the Angels third out in the top of the fifth, the crowd roared. A renew our faith. The strike, with its arrogant players and owners,
showed how baseball is no longer a game, but a vicious industry.
The show of affection for Ripken through the streak and his 
modesty have made the game special again and brought it back into 
our hearts. History was made Wednesday and perhaps it will inspire 
us all to go out there every day and keep doing what we love.Tartans split pair last week
SOCCER, continued from page 9
i before the CWRU offense could 
take advantage. But the ball came 
right back, as a Case Western 
forward brought the ball up the 
field. She passed the ball in front 
I ofthegoal,buthersupportwasnt 
I fast enough and the ball rolled 
! out.
Things looked bad for CMU in 
the last two minutes of play. On a 
i CWRU possession, freshman 
I goalie Lindsay Smith dove and 
broke the offensive strike, but 
| the ball rolled free toward the 
open goal. Freshman back Tracy 
Burton, who had played strong 
defense all game, caught the ball 
in time and blasted it out of 
bounds. But in the final seconds 
of the period, CWRU brought the 
ball back into play with a shot 
that landed in a crowd of players 
in front of the goal and dribbled 
in for the first and only goal of the 
game. Time expired soon there
after.
When asked about the teams 
overall performance, Coach Ann
Haggerty said, We played well 
at times. It took us a while to get 
going, however, and we... lost our 
concentration in the end. But 
she also said, Overall, we showed 
big improvements defensively. 
Things weve been working on in 
practice, we saw in the field.... 
Also we were looking for each 
other well [offensively]. Attack
ers were playing off of each other 
well.
This loss comes after last 
Wednesdays easy win over 
Waynesburg College, where the 
Tartans basically controlled the 
entire game to come out on top 3 
0. CMU setthepaceforthematch 
almost immediately with a 
Umeda shooting the ball past the 
goalkeeper inside of the first two 
minutes off of a comer kick from 
junior back Mae Hogan. The sec
ond goal came not long after as 
senior forward Nicole Poisson 
passed to deRosset, who scored 
after her shot rolled in off of the 
goalie. Poisson put the final nail 
in Waynesburgs coffin halfway
through the second half as she 
shot it in off of a close net play 
from a comer kick from Hogan.
Haggerty was very pleased with 
her teams performance in the 
game and said that although the 
other team didnt apply too much 
pressure, the game allowed them
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St. 
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
FORUM TRAVEL 
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-l pm 
Call 681-4099
to try some creative attacks with 
the forwards.
The womens soccer team will 
face a pair of tough UAA match
ups this week as they face Allegh
eny College at home this Wednes
day, and the University of Chi
cago at home on Saturday.
Child, family and adult
counselling available,
fee based on income.
Call U.Pitt Clinical Psychology Center
624-8822X
Free Healthcare Lecture 
Creating Health Naturally: an Introduction to Ayurveda 
with D. Edwards Smith M.D.,
Consultant, National Institutes of Health (Alternative Medicine Division)
Monday, Sept. 18, 7:30 p.m., Scaife Hall Auditorium, CMU
Learn about ayurveda, an ancient healthcare system which:
 enlivens the mindbody connection
 restores health without harmful side effects
Research indicates that ayurveda is useful in controlling free radicals, preventing many diseases and restoring balance within the individual and the environment.
Dr. Smith was trained at Johns Hopkins and practiced as a rheumatologist for 17 years. 
For the past 10 years, he has practiced ayurveda exclusively. Author of numerous 
research publications, Dr. Smith is considered one of the top natural healthcare specialists in the U.S.
Sponsored by the TM Program, a non-profit educational organization. 
For more information, call (412) 521-6000.
HEWLETT PACKARD
Hewlett-Packard will be on the CMU 
Campus the week of September 18.
You are cordially invited to attend the following events:
Monday, September 18 at 7:00 pm
Student Information Session and Interview Information 
Carnegie Conference Room Warner Hall First Floor
Tuesday, September 19 at 2:30 pm
"The Future of Data Base Technologies"
A Technical Presentation by Mary Loomis from HP Laboratories 
Scaife Hall Auditorium
Thursday, September 21 10:00-4:00
Stop by our booth at the Technical Opportunities Conference 
CMU Gym
We will be conducting interviews at the Career Center 
on Wednesday, September 20 through Friday,
September 22 for students in the fields of Computer 
Science, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, and 
Information Technology. If you have not already 
applied for an interview, come to the Student 
Information Session for information regarding any 
remaining available interview sessions.
MOCA
PITTSBURGH
FINAL 
CLEARANCE 
50-75% OFF
SAVE AN ADDITIONAL 
yW% WITH STUDENT ID 
UNTIL SEPTEMBER yRth
5401 Walnut St. Shady side Tel. 412 681-8640 
Mon. Tues. Thurs. Sat. 10-7 Wed. Fri. 10-9 Sun. 12-5

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 90, Issue 2The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania11 September 19S5
T TT7T1T nDUaDQUEBBQilBLlVlliLr
From where we stand: Race Relations at CMU
Administrative 
Viewpoint
Race relations on campus
(Left to right) Duane Doles, John Rosenberg, Angelynn Manapat, Joan Chen, Matt Pulver, and Andrew White are members of CMUs diverse student community.
Outreach director 
fights inequality
BY LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Education, not anger, is what motivates Elaine Atkinson 
to fight racism, discrimination, and ignorance  three 
words that she said are crippling this nation in its struggle 
for cultural equality.
I feel as though my job  what I do  is to break down 
barriers, destroy stereotypes, and teach people to respect 
one another, said Atkinson, the director of Community 
Outreach. This is what Im supposed to do. I didnt used to 
know that. I grew into it.
Atkinson, who began her Carnegie Mellon career as an 
assistant to Herb Simon in 1984, jumped into a leadership 
position five years ago when she founded Role Models, a 
program which puts positive images into the lives of AfricanAmerican elementary school children. The program aims to 
give children the knowledge and skills to pursue bright 
futures.
Atkinson said the program was specifically designed to 
put children and college students together so that AfricanAmerican children could see older African-Americans aspir
ing for careers.
In addition to Hole Models, Atkinson instructs for East 
End Tutoring, a program which pairs college students with 
elementary children for academic and personal support.
She works with teenage mothers at the Hill House, a 
settlement house in the Hill district.
She also helps students deal with racial struggles at 
Allderdice High School.
She gives talks to male African-Americans with criminal 
records so they may be motivated to help themselves.
Somehow, all of us have to be agents of change, said 
Atkinson simply. We cant afford to sit passively by any 
longer.
Atkinson, who grew up with the voices of Martin Luther 
King, Jr., Malcolm X, and the Black Panthers, does not sit 
passively by.
Racism is based on fearfear that you might change who 
you are; that you might lose power, she said. When we 
begin to understand the struggles of different peoples  
famine, war, the Holocaust  what we begin to realize is 
that the human spirit is beautiful, and very strong.
Atkinsons office in the Student Center is a myriad of 
paperwork. Bulletins about lectures and workshops are 
posted around her desk. Grant proposals in various stages of 
completion are piled neatly on top of a row of books. The 
phone rings every couple of minutes. Visitors knock frePlease see ATKINSON, page L3
Students debate race issue
BY SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Staff writer
Its not outright, but its there. People 
instinctively stick to themselves on this cam
pus for whatever reasons, and that tends to 
deliver racial tensions, said Scott Pitkin, a 
senior information decisions systems major.
the small number of [African-Ameri
cans on campusl doesnt help, but I think 
that as a support mechanism, certain races 
tend to seclude themselves from the rest of 
the campus, he added.
I think people are divided into groups
here__Ive seen mixing, but not that much,
saidTeresaPena, ajunior psychology major.
I guess minorities tend to hang out to
gether, especially blacks and hispanics. In 
my case, this is because of CMAP and be
cause, personally, I think that they have 
more spirit  theyre louder and stuff, she 
said.
More often than not, students find that 
CMU does not foster the diverse atmosphere 
that is so often considered one of the schools 
biggest assets.
There arent many opportunities for in
termingling, said Tasha Carter, a senior 
chemical engineering major. But at the 
same time, I dont think that the students 
here are really interested in intermingling. 
To get through this school, everyone needs 
to find their own group, a niche. And once 
they find that, theres no reason to branch 
out, she said.
In order to help minorities find that niche, 
organizations lik the Asian Students Asso
ciation, the Korean Students Association, 
Mayur, Society of Hispanic Engineers, 
Spirit, and programs such as CMAP serve 
as the sole social outlet for these students.
People in these programs dont integrate 
themselves into the campus well. For ex
ample, CMAP singles out minorities as be
ing special or different in some way, Pitkin 
said.
Because they cultivate isolated factions 
on campus, some> students feel that such 
groups should not! be funded by the school. 
I dont think that we should have to sup
port minority organizations on this cam
pus, whether it be the ASA, Spirit, or the 
Womens Center, said Christopher Ravin, 
ajunior biology major.
Not all share in his opinion. Senior art 
major Christopher Craychee believes that 
minority organizations on campus help race 
relations and are a necessary part of cam
pus life.
Its a group of people with something in 
common. Race and culture define how you 
see others and how you see yourself in 
relation to others, he said.
Craychee also believes that if CMU is 
segregated, it is the fault of both sides, not 
just minorities.
You have to go out of your way to have a 
meaningful relationship with someone of 
another race, he said.
Please see RACE, page L3
"I have two overriding thoughts; I 1 
worry a good bit about how we are in ! 
the area of promoting and using racial ; 
diversity. For example, while we have 
a way to go, we have made a lot more - 
strides in the undergraduate level than ! 
we have in faculty hiring. Second, from 1 
my selfish perspective, I'm glad that J 
we've avoided massive politicization  
over racial issues, but I wonder some- . 
times if we're not a little bit too quiet 
for our own good."i
 Peter Stearns ' 
Dean of H&SS College a
i
"I don't think this has anything to do 1 
with calculated racism. It's presented 1 
as a financial matter. The administration tells departments, 'Yes, we're will- q 
ing to support this faculty for several  
years if you can fund them.'After sev- fI 
eral years, the department has to find 
a way to fund these people, which can 4 
be challenging. The English depart
ment, for example, does not feel very 
secure in this situation." e
d
 Crystal Bartolovich ' 
Assistant Professor of English
ft"Our faculty population is not as di- o 
verse as our student body, and that's a ; i 
problem. The administration, deans, 1 
and department heads are working . 
together to attract more minority fac- i 
ulty members to Carnegie Mellon. I  
believe race relations among faculty fl 
members, bothin professional collabo
rations and in personal relationships, . 
are extremely positive." fc
11
 Robert Mehrabian 
Carnegie Mellon University  
President,
"Not enough is being done, but we 1 
have a basis to build on. We can build & 
on the courses we have about the African-American experience to include 
those courses which focus more on 
other ethnic minorities."
 Joe Trotter 
Professor of History
"Race relations on this campus are no 1 
doubt similar in many ways to race , 
relations anywhere. However, poor 
relations are, inlarge part, a product of 
ignorance or insecurity. I believe these 
two qualities to be in very short supply 
here, and I think this results in a cam-'' 
pus climate which is very positive in ! 
terms of interpersonal relations span
ning racial or ethnic differences."
'!! Michael Murphy 5 
Dean of Student Affairs
"... As someone who has been here 15 . 
years and watched the transition of ; 
CMU from a regional technical school s j 
with a mostly local student body to an' j 
international University withstudents 
from all over, what continues to im- ! 
press me is that racial tensions have ; 
been kept so remarkably low."
- Andrew Barnes 
Professor of History
Compiled by Jonmichael Moy ; 
and Shannon Gibney J 
Features Co-Editors \
)

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 1995
Jokes trivialize womens struggle
Cracking the Myth
by Amber Benezra
Recently, someone I know told me this 
joke, assuming I would think it was 
funny.
Here are some things overheard at 
the womens conference in China:
Hey Reno, you left the seat up again. 
Dont shove... youll all get a chance to 
slap Bob Packwood.
Are the men gone? OK, bring out the 
Tupperware!!
Tou used to date Martina? I used to 
date Martina.
Whats Richard Simmons doing here? 
Needless to say, I did not think this 
was funny at all.
Unfortunately, many people share this 
viewpointthat a conference on women 
implies psychotic militant feminists who 
are obviously all lesbians and want to 
" kill all men.
This perspective trivializes the impor, tance of the conference, as well as the 
, importance of international womens 
rights.
The whole, Ha ha look at those zany 
women, attitude is demeaning and an
noying, and attempts to invalidate the 
real goals of the conference.
The Fourth World Conference on 
Women, the largest and most important 
forum on women in ten years, began 
September 4, in Beijing.
The proposed issues included every
thing from contraception and abortion, 
to human rights and institutionalized 
rape.
The objective was to bring political, 
social, and economic equality for women 
to the forefront of governmental agen
das. Delegates to the conference wrote a
Platform of Action to define future plans 
for feminism, womens rights and social 
change.
The document tries to remove ob
stacles to womens participation in pri
vate and public life, ensure a full and 
equal share in economic, social and po
litical decision-making and affirm that 
the human rights of women are an inte
gral part of universal human rights, 
said Gertrude Mongella, secretary gen
eral of the conference.
Although it is expected that many 
Islamic countries, as well as the Vatican, 
would come out in opposition of many of 
the tenets of the conference, the struggle 
for womens rights is being countered by 
many American groups as well.
The major concern of men from Saudi 
Arabia to the U.S. is that such advance
ments for women are endangering the 
structure and moral fiber of the family.
Logically, this makes no sense, be
cause the stronger women become, so
cially, politically, and economically, the 
better they will be able to support their 
families.
James Dobson, the president of the 
Colorado-based Focus on the Family, 
seems to disagree.
He and other conservative critics say 
the conference is an assemblage of ultra-liberal feminists who threaten their 
view of family values.
They also suspect that the real agenda 
is radical gender-feminism.
Dobsons sentiment was paralleled by 
Saudi Arabias highest religious author
ity who remarked that the conferences 
platform, seeks the destruction of the 
family and allows the unrestrained prac
tice of adultery and other immoral acts.
It seems to me that these men are 
very, very afraid of women breaking free 
of patriarchal rule.
Opponents of the Fourth World Con
ference on Women are opponents of 
womens rights.
They try to appeal to womens sense of 
familial duty, and claim that morality 
and values are in danger when women 
start demanding certain things for them
selves, and for their daughters.
These traditional family values are 
often used by governments to keep 
women restricted to the domestic sphere. 
In recent years, the social and economic 
advancement of women has been re
versed due to a return to conservatism 
and the forcing of women back into their 
special role.
According to a global report by Human 
Rights Watch, Some governments, 
among them Iran, the Holy See, India, 
Guatemala and Egypt, have threatened 
to roll back the gains for womens rights 
negotiated at previous conferences on 
human rights, population, and human 
development.
These governments promote the con
cept that women have a special role in 
society and the family as an excuse to 
deny women their equality, civil liber
ties, and right to be free from violence.
This is infuriating to me, because ev
ery modicum of social progress achieved 
by women is immediately counteracted.
Fear seems to be the great motivator; 
if women are not limited by violence, 
economic oppression, and domestic re
sponsibilities, who knows what they 
might do?
In all, the Fourth World Conference 
on Women is being attacked as well as 
dismissed by international religious 
leaders, groups focused on the family, 
and conservative rivals (not to mention 
the trouble the Chinese government is 
causing).
Jokes made about the conference may 
not be malevolent, but they trivialize 
womens struggle, and ultimately affect 
the way people think about gender equal
ity.
As Naomi Weisstein so powerfully put 
it, When we hear jokes against women, 
and we are asked why we dont laugh at 
them, the answer is easy, simple, and 
short:
Of course were not laughing, you ass. 
Nobody laughs at the sight of their own 
blood. 
Amber Ann Benezra is a senior English 
major and a member of the Womens 
Center.
Assembling your own system saves money
Focused on the Internet
by Kenton Shaver
Right now we are just leaving the 
golden age of computing. How do I 
conclude this? Doom sound cues.
The expansion of the user computer 
interface will not be as abrupt as the 
move from silent films to talkies was 
(I hope), but the change follows the 
same pattern: telegraph to telephone, 
silent film to talkie, ASCII email to
it is best to know the system down to 
the component level.
Which leads us to the URL of the 
week: http://techweb.cmp.com/techweb/programs/twgo. Up until quite re
cently, a feature series called Build
ing Your Own Systems was provided 
on-line that detailed the considerations 
computer retailer houses must make 
when assembling their own systems.
Readers who want to see this article 
are encouraged to write the magazine 
and encourage them to form an archive 
page, (http ://tech web. cmp. com/scripts/ 
imagemap/toolbar?430,59).
Some resellers, afraid of doing jail 
time for selling non-FCC compliant 
systems, buy stripped-down FCC-certified systems containing a mother
board and a power supply only.
The odds of getting caught by the FCC and 
jailed for selling computers with noncomplicant emissions charteristics are slim...
Mime. And video games dependent on 
sound cues.
For a deaf guy on this campus, only 
a crude facsimile of a life is possible, 
unless, of course, that life is lived in 
large part through a PC. Then, with 
the right software and hardware, the 
facsimile can be printed in 600 dpi 
resolution! So lets begin to explore 
this.
Key question: Can you save money 
assembling your own system? The 
comp, sys.ibm.pc.hardware. systems 
consensus seems now to be assembled. 
Whats cheaperbuild or buy clone. 
That may or may not be the case.
It can be an expensive proposition to 
buy a nonstandard machine, or to 
forgo the bundled programs. And, if 
you want to run Linux or Warp, then
The odds of getting caught by the 
FCC and jailed for selling computers 
with non-compliant emissions charac
teristics are slim but palpable. The 
FCC doesnt certify power supplies or 
motherboardsjust systems and pe
ripherals and add-in cards.
For your consideration, it may gut 
resale value if you are trying to get rid 
of an RF-hot system that kills your 
neighbors TV reception, not that much 
resale value ever existed anyway.
On this note, Focused on the 
Internets recommendation is not to 
be your own system integrator. Mar
gins from reputable clone makers are 
too thin to justify it.
Kenton Shaver is a senior English 
major.
Behind World Product Leadership...
... is Global Technology and Development !
 The Procter & Gamble Company is recognized as a world leader in product innovation and 
development. We provide global information solutions for over 5WuWWW employees in more than y@ 
countries. We have full-time and summer career opportunities in Product Development, Purchases., 
Engineering, Manufacturing, and Management Systems,
 We are recruiting students from Carnegie Mellon in the following majors: IDS, Computer Science, 
CE, EE, ME, ChemE, IM, Operations Research, Statistics, and PhDs in Chemistry and Biology.
Come visit the P&G booth at the TOC on September yb and bring your resume.
The Procter & Gamble CompanyBs&

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 1995
Director fights racism
ATKINSON, from page LI paralyzed, have hurt many students
quently on her door. Sometimes I get perceptions of racial equality, Atkinson 
down-trodden with all the administra- said the city of Pittsburgh itself lies at 
tive tasks...  she said, motioning to her the heart of racial struggles, not Carnecluttered desk with 
a wry grin.
But the students 
and children renew 
my spirit. They keep 
me focused on my 
mission to bring 
people together.
Atkinson said the 
University is very 
receptive to improv
ing race relations 
and promoting cam
pus diversity.
When she pitched 
her Role Models 
idea to- the Univer
sity several years 
ago, President Mehrabian himself agreed 
this was something the school should be 
promoting.
While tragedies such as Javon 
Thompsons shooting last year and the 
recent drive-by shooting in front of
gie Mellon.
Pittsburgh is aw
ful  its like going 
back in time 50years. 
When things are 
hard here, it seems 
to be three or four 
times as hard on 
blacks... this city has 
a long way to go, she 
said, mentioning that 
Pittsburghs infant 
mortality rate has 
been compared' to 
those of Third World 
countries.
Recognizing prob
lems and finding so
lutions seem to be Atkinsons motiva
tion.
Everyday I ask myself, Can I be the 
agent of change? Can I make every life I 
touch a little brighter? Everyday I won
der if I can make a difference. EveryAndrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor
Webster Hall, which left a Pitt student day.:
Students perceive racial tension
RACE, from page LI
Sticking with the social structure 
of the campus, Ill say that I have black 
friends,butl cantsay that its through 
my fraternity, which is my main social 
outlet. Maybe I would be spending 
time with a more diverse range of 
people if I wasnt in a fraternity. People 
who say that the fraternities arent 
segregated are full of shit, but its an 
unconscious segregation; its no ones 
fault. Few blacks are interested in 
joining fraternities, possibly because 
there is no precedent of blacks [in 
fraternities] to begin with, he said.
While it may seem that the main 
social organizations on campus such 
as fraternities and sororities are pre
dominantly white, many relay this 
back to a reverse racism that exists at 
CMU. The issue isnt so much of blacks 
being part of a white organization, as 
it is an issue of these organizations 
closing themselves off from the rest of 
the black community on campus, said 
Rick Gilmore, a senior chemical engi
neering major.
That could be because were so few in 
number, he added.
When asked about racism on campus, 
Gilmore replied that it does exist. When 
I speak about racism, I speak as a hu
man being, not a black person, and I do 
feel that while there is a certain amount 
of prejudice here, it comes from within 
as well as from others, he said.
If there are ever racial tensions on this 
campus, it manifests itself tenfold dur
ing Carnival, mainly because of the an
nual Sweepstakes Competition.
The only time I am consciously aware 
of racism here is at buggy time, said 
Lynn Babyak, a junior biology major. 
The rest of the years racial isolation is 
just written off as a way to preserve 
culture, but at buggy those lines of sepa
ration begin to clash, she said.
Many students find that the positive 
aspects of such events fail to outweigh 
the racial conflicts which they are forced 
to experience, hence they refuse to par
ticipate.
 I was really into buggy until it got to 
be too much, said Gilmore. For what
ever reasons, it was Spirit against the 
Greeks and vice versa.
Racism does exist, said Andrew 
David Ortiz, a sophomore civil engit 
neering major. Maybe not in boldface 
letters or on water fountains. It may 
last only for seconds, but these sec
onds add up to a lifetime.
I see a lot of slander, he added. 
People just dont understand that 
their words take an effect on others  
ill will adds up over time.
CMU may just be representative of 
the real world, a racist world, that s 
unchanging on this campus, where 
responsibility always lies on others.
The world is racist, said Carter. 
But it shouldnt infringe upon on my 
education. One thing necessary for an 
education is a sense of belonging. TKe 
school doesnt foster a sense of belong
ing. They (the administration) want to 
weed people out.
Racial tensions wont go away, said 
Craychee. But can we prevent them 
from becoming more polar entities? 
Thats the question.
Vrp0rsSp UsMrva IC.sgSag .S1vra S8SsgCgaa Mh 2IngsaI0i Iaarga
BY SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
This [CMU] is just a micro
cosm of current race relations 
taking place in the rest of the 
world, said Frank Ligons, a jun
ior history policy maj or and presi
dent of Spirit. Its difficult to 
find a place where people dont 
react to race. I guess, in a way, 
that would be a utopia. Of course, 
there are degrees to which this 
narrow-mindedness takes place. 
I definitely think CMU leans to
wards the lower end of the [nar
row-mindedness] scale, he said.
Though CMU has an eclectic 
mix of students from diverse cul
tural and racial backgrounds, 
there is very little interaction 
among different groups.
However, with the number of 
cultural organizations forming on 
campus, a few students are striv
ing to bring together students of 
every ethnicity.
Cultural groups on campus in
clude, among others: ASA (Asian 
Student Association), KSA (Ko
rean Students Organization), 
SHIPE (Society of Hispanic En
gineers), Mayur (which celebrates 
Indian culture), Spirit (which fo
cuses on African-American cul
ture), and the Muslim Students 
Association.
CMU students have also cre
ated the Pakistan Students As
sociation, theTaiwanese Organi
zation, the Vietnamese Student 
Organization, and SPIC MACAY 
(Society for the Promotion of In
dian Classical Music and Cul
ture Amongst Youth).
Unfortunately, many students 
misperceive the purpose of the 
cultural organizations that exist 
at CMU.
Jessica Fang, a senior psychol
ogy and IM major, who is presi
dent of the Asian Student Asso
ciation said, I know one of the 
biggest problems students have
in perceiving ASAis that they see 
it as a clique. Students dont un
derstand that we are open to any
one who is interested in Asian 
culture. I can understand how 
some may find it odd to join if 
they are non-Asian, she said.
Spirit is also open to students 
of every race. Ligons said, Spirit 
welcomes students of every 
ethnicity. We have a diverse ra
cial makeup. Its unfortunate that 
these groups are looked upon as 
being closed cliques. Our aim is 
to incorporate different people. 
We believe in the notion of 
strength through diversity. Spirit 
encourages people of different 
backgrounds to get involved. We 
believe we can learn from each 
other. A racial clique is not what 
we strive for.
The main focus of Spirit is to 
promote African-American cul
tural awareness. In conjunction 
with that, we strive for positive 
gains for blacks and other mi|{ INCI I> I. li S of SOUND R K T I R K M K X T I X V K S T I X G
pUf* r ?"
*** CJt~
IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START 
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS 
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.
Cant afford to save for retirement?
The truth is, you cant afford not to. 
Not when you realize that your retirement 
can last 20 to 3o years or more. Youll want 
to live at least as comfortably then as you 
do now. And that takes planning.
By starting to save now, you can take 
advantage of tax deferral and give your 
money time to compound and grow. 
Consider this: Set aside just $100 each 
month beginning at age 3o and you can 
accumulate over $172,109* by the time 
you reach age GS. But wait ten years and 
youll have to budget $219 each month 
to reach the same goal.
Even if youre not counting the years to 
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF 
to help you build the future you deservewith flexible retirement and tax-deferred 
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest
ment choices, and a record of personal 
service that spans y5 years.
Over 1.7 million people in education and 
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of 
their list for retirement planning. Why not 
join them?
Call today and learn how simple it is 
to build a secure tomorrow when you 
have time and TIAA-CREF working on 
your side.
Start planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline at 1 800 842-2888.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape iti*
*A.<juming an interest rate of 7% credited to TIAA Retirement Annuitiej. Tbii rale ii iued jolely to jbow the paver and effect of compounding. Liver or higher r produce very different rejultj. CREF certificate! are diilriiuled by TIAA-CREF Individual and Injtilutional Servicej.
norities on and off campus 
through political, social, and cul
tural programs, said Ligons.
These groups as well as a vari
ety of others that exist at CMU 
take an important part in creat
ing cultural awareness. They do 
this through a number of activi
ties.
When ASA started out, it basi
cally concentrated on social func
tions. Last year, I decided it 
should not just be social. Our 
meetings now focus on discus
sion groups on such topics as in
terracial dating and inter-gen
erational conflicts. We have got
ten positive feedback from these 
groups, said Fang.
Our meetings are open to ev
eryone, and they are advertised
throughout campus and on our 
electronic bulletin board. This 
semester, we want to do activi
ties with other organizations such 
as Mayur and Spirit. We also will 
be participating in the Interna
tional Festival, said Fang.
Spirit is also very active in the 
campus and Pittsburgh commu
nities, as its members partici
pate in community projects, fash
ion shows, Black History Month 
programs, community outreach 
programs, and speaking at 
schools.
It also plans a number of social 
functions throughout the year. It 
is evident that CMU is made up 
of students with contrasting cul
tures, ethnicities, religions, be
liefs, and opinions.
Though this may in fact create 
racial tension throughout .our 
community, perhaps utilizing 
these cultural organizations can 
be the first step toward finding 
some sort of harmony.
Ligons said, Maybe one day a 
rejuvenation of the peace -and 
hope of the 60s will occur. People 
have come into situations and 
turned around full circle, bu Im 
not so sure that there ever will be 
a magical solution. As intermix
ing of races continues, this sort of 
hatred and narrow-mindedness 
may end. Its inevitable in a way, 
though humans will find another 
way to differentiate. Its in pur 
nature. We do need to bridge tnese 
gaps because there certainly is 
room for improvement.
of the .Jewish Co mm unit} Center ol Pittsburgh 
present* the
7 0th Dccital Series 1995-1996
September 27, 1995 
Pinchas Zukerman. violin
Technically dazzling and deeply probing.
- The New York Times 
November 19. 1995
Alicia de Larrocha, piano
"she can do no wrong... She is a marvel, tier playing has perfect finish."
- The New York Times 
December 12, 1995
Joen Vasquez. viola
"When he comes out to play, he owns the stage.
- Maestro Michael Stern 
January 21, 1996
Gary Lakes, tenor
"...An enormous voice of poignant lyric beauty."
- Newsweek 
February 18, 1996 
Balph Kirshbaum, cello 
"...belongs to the highest echelon of today's cellists."
- Los Angeles Times 
March 10, 1996
Leila Josefowicz, violin 
"She is an incredible musician at any age."
- The Philadelphia Inquirer 
March 26, 1996
Andras Schiff, piano
...an ideal pianist - warm, witty, and cultivated."
- The New Yorker
All concerts at Carnegie Music Hall.
For an illustrated brochure call 521 - 8010

---------------------------------------------------

I- SUPPOSE TUE SECRET 
^HAPPINESS \S 
CEMHG TO APPRECIATE 
 MOMENT.
I. FOR EXAMPLE, TAKE 
GREAT PLEASURE IN 
BEING RIGHT HERE, r 
R\GHT NOW, DOING 
WHAT WERE DOING. )
CP COURSE, 
'iOMRE SUPPOSED 
TO BE AT SCHOOL
I COULDNT 
9kFVo9 
TUOSE M0MEHT5.
WUY ARE 10U 
. CRYING?
I'M CUTTING UP 
MA ONION.
IT MUST BE WARD TO CCOK 
IP YOU ANTHRoPMORPH \ ZE 
VOVJR VEGETABLES.
m AREN'T Y<E HOOKED UP 
P AH' ON-LINE SERVICE. SO 
feCAN CONNECT______
o;:other f_><S Computers ?Jpp
BECAUSE ITS BAD ENOUGH 
WE HAVE A TELEPHONECALVIN, WOULD YOU 
DEMONSTRATE THE NEXT 
PROBLEM AT THE BOARD:
YE5 H155 U10RP1-L10nt>.
1 UOULt> BE NAP-PY TO 
t>0 AN-'i-THING YOU ASK.HELLLppp/'
I WAVE BEEN 
5UL- LESS- FUL-LY 
kqmk9CCFV:
TO OBEX ALL 
t>l-REE-TlVES. I 
HAVE NO LULL OF
nv qun ..m oun 
ia ouN..:m hed
DOES NT AM BODY 
APPRECIATE 
TUEATER ?/
9Hq o3 YEc e\l 3Ek 9 
wEwFHl lE Fcn'sp lHF HFomHlu 
FVFkYfEqY YFcR 9l YEJ 
lE mFl mEoHm u___^
9Hq eEwFlowFe lHF oqoEl 
fFHoHq YEJ el9kle qE4H 
lEE eEEH 9Hq HF Rw9V'e 
oHlE YEE 9l lcF fEllEw 
fF3EkF bWJ V9H VFl 949Yd
'iEP. THE PLAYGROJND \S 
A LOT MORE FUN AFTER 
CLASS STARTS
V9H 1 T HEu HEl cHlox 
kcH lHF V YEcJkF ExqFk
V9Vccw ___
CLEANER7 ! /.'P
o'w Exq o 4Foxd w9HfF Jcel 
FHEcmH G lHoe EHVFd o3 YEc 
 VEcxq I qE 9 kF9x mEEq 
qEolG G JEf
THAT SUPPRESSED
SMILE WORRIES WE
CALVIN
V/ELLl ARE 
GrETTIN IN OR 
AIN'T cHA?
by AAike Yeh
on! ouu! x sor F PAPm
CUTt MUYCU! TWV AMm m/!r\i
Cormeur /??$ Tart nAc
\<\S
acultySe
.LI49L5 7
Volumle
ExqAlowF'?
VVH)4IT.'/kmew 
'lA' ,
h.HF4
IT///
?M ig^S .MhIhgl 
Mc/UAM/}fcA Apm rrSTHE U)HOL TVAJ6 l^AS1 A 
Complete sh/qm pcivem 
fiy 601/aJMaJT US/
58,000 
AMG.RICAV 
. PIEOH
3 MILLiOA/
VI TA/AMS . PlEJ?!!
THE > 
Vp&lhE&w 
k UiAE-i
PROTESTED WERE SWOT 
fVOO Jailed! Americans 
U) SPIED uPOn) ! AfOp 
BlU-lotoS OF POLLACS flyb,p, ojAs-reo!
AkJO UE UMO OPPOSED 
THE. LOftO. BR-AfOOEO 
RECfcrfTLM AS u CCxjkJTEC.- COuruiLt Mt&OVERKj-^lt* 
 10ERE RIGHT AU. Alo^G,
THE OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE 
ARE KJtfTHiOGi ei/ru som
o VkIwo-J (\I. ,I HF>E I PMT MEEb
swcmi t/Jim nFvo
MOC A%WA.. ICAAMC( taxe  ok
TOAT KAb'S AACVCR mb MO 
CACJRY AAA OCR wmt lAFC'
somer m aly fun 
ThCnh this cut Cs?' ,rrr
H,*AMM!! TOATAOM! MCT'. ^ 
mkY up3mi i bCee 
sT >CATO(
-wgn\;
bltd'
WEU., B6.WJ, 
R'fcUT MuST 
m80SMMaMCI
SurisFacrio)V UUH7 j
OH,X UllSH ITXP. 8ur 
UtIAuT (JtvJEB.FoeT l4FA'p0E^s 00IM 
MISee^THCtTTHAT 
\U3 Aft CAUStD, Mfttd. /
006S -[Ul fAtAsJ U)i\ HftMtTO UStt^lTO \ 
TUt WVUSIC OFTH.E. ' 
SDCTlfc? FOC. AMOTHM.
3o ytAS"? ______^

---------------------------------------------------

/A-V-1 J1--3ZIM a<a r'Mt?

---------------------------------------------------

8?K
d,
O
li
*
,L
n<
 9c 
-- 
Y.i 
C
.Il
3
fi
ai
thisboxneedsfilled
6
il
:
o.
Vthe tartan has positions open in all depart
ments. come to our general meeting on 
tuesday, September 12, in the student 
center drill deck, at 7pm. you'll eat free 
pizza, drink 'pop,' and talk newspaper.
we look forward to seeing you
a
-r
p.

I
I

>s&
S:
join THE TARTAN
contact us at 268-2111 or email kk4i@andrew.cmu.edu with questions, 
come live in this box with us, it'll be fun. we promise.
THE TARTAN
Camegle Melton's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief .... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed.Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager........Amlt Kar
Acting News Ed.......Jason Togyer
Acting Forurri Editor... John Biggs 
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe
..........................Matthew Solitro
Features Co-Eds.. Shannon Gibne
....................Jonmlchael L.T. Moy
Acting Div. Editor.... Eric Salzman 
Dossier Dsgn. Ed. Brackett Horne
.............................Jennifer Zieserl
Dossier Lit. Ed... Adriane Seibert 
Art Co-Eds. ... Francine Gemperle
............................Gabrlen Symons
Photo Editor.. Andrew M'Dermott
Production Mgr.............Kathy Liu
Copy Mgr.....................Eric Strauss
Asst. News Ed......Sameer Karim
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Slegendorf 
Darkroom Mgr............Jim Snyder
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball
Staffwriters 
Gil Alterovltz, Jason Andrackl, 
Darren Chiapetta, Carey 
Clevenger, Tricla Davis, Gretel 
Gaal, Dan Goldwasser, Anu] Gupta, 
Tom Harper, Jason Heinlein, 
Wladimir Labeikovsky, April C. 
Moate, Angela Molloy, Sudhir 
Reddy, James Stepanek, Paul 
Tabachneck, Bill Vandermark, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Susan Watson, 
Heather Zlndle
Art
Mark Eggert, Ryan Rhoades
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Ramsey Hong, 
Jung Park, Jackson Tam, Daniel 
Yauger, Mike Yeh
Photo 
Yuzo Watanabe
Production 
Christine Brill, Esther Jimnez, 
Lester Manzano, Elizabeth Neuman, 
Victor Ortega, Derek Wahila
Copy
Lori Bowes, Max Chittister, 
Madhav Ghanta, D. Renee 
Hairston, Winter Mason, Diane 
Ohm, Ed Slavishak, Richard 
Smolen, M. J. Wilson
Business 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Yosef Birnboim, Chris Cannon, 
Steve Charnoubl, Ayana Ell, Josh 
Freeman, Scott Hess, David Ko
ran, Rick Simmons, Gustavo 
Sganzerla, Aaron Welsberg
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Camegle Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
inc. Subscriptions are available for the se
mester or academic year. The editorials ap
pearing at the beginning of the opinion sec
tion are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political car
toons are the opinions of individual creators. 
The Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors 
who are usually, but not necessarily, mem
bers of the University community. A letter 
-intended for publication must be signed and 
Include the writers address and phone num
ber for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that let
ters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright  1995 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh. PA15213-
3890
Funded In part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN if: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 90, Issue 2The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania11 September 1995DIVERSIONS
Hairy CMU students lighten, brighten, dred
By DAWN WALLHAUSEN
Tartan Staffwriter
One night last spring semes
ter, I was hanging out in Shirley 
Apartments when my friend 
Kris Peterson (junior, history) 
decided that he wanted a new 
hairstyle. A D. C. punk type, Kris 
thought that liberty spikes 
would be the perfect statement.
Well, I had previously helped 
an ex-boyfriend give himself the 
same kind of do, so I figured I 
could do it again, right? I mean, 
all it took was some Elmers 
glue, some egg whites, and a 
touch of gel. I thought, How 
hard could this be?
But my exs hair had been de
ceptively easy to work with.
What little hair he had left in 
the middle of his head was barely 
12 inches long, wiry, and pur
posefully a bit on the greasy 
side.
Kris, on the other hand, 
sported at least two feet of ul
tra-fine, ultra-smooth hair. The task at 
hand was going to be a bit more difficult 
than I had expected.
Well, I tried it anyway. I got the neces
sary equipment and started in on the job. 
I must have had every person in Shirley 
Apartments who was still awake at the 
time supporting one of the spikes Id made 
in the hopes that theyd hold when they 
dried. No such luck.
When all the usual ingredients failed 
me, I broke out a can of impossible-tomove-permanent-holdhairspray and some 
rubber cement. I was tempted to try using 
some of the pistachio pudding in Kriss 
fridge as a fixative, but he wouldnt let me.
The end result of this little adventure 
was that poor Kris had three or four differ
ent hair products, two or three different 
varieties of paste-boogers, and various food 
items on his head  and still no liberty 
spikes to show for it. Maybe if wed been 
more patient about letting all the gunk dry 
... but everyones arms were getting tired.
As you might guess, most people with 
truly funky hair either do it themselves or 
do like Kris did and ask a friend for help in 
getting it. Not too many Pittsburgh salons 
specialize in purple mohawks or whiteblonde buzzes. That kind of style isnt for 
your average member of the Philip Pelusi 
clientele.
Besides, who wants to pay $12 for a 
simple head-shaving if youve got a pal 
with clippers and all the attachments?
Case in point: Ryan Douglass (junior, 
art). Ryan does all the upkeep on his cur
rently blue-green mohawk himself. He
Chris White applies dye to friend Curtis Jacksons hair. Just an hour later, the dreds were bouncing, blonde, and beautiful.
mixes all of his own bleach, as well as 
doing all of the shaving and trimming on 
his own. The green used in his present 
color is Manic Panic, which can be bought 
at places like Slackers on the South Side 
for a minimal fee.
Douglass got the blueish tone from a 
dye called Punky Color. He said that 
Punky Color, which he bought in Wash
ington D.C., is similar to Manic Panic, 
except that it sticks to the hair better.
As for the cut, Douglass just needs to 
shave off whatever hair he doesnt want 
and occasionally trim the hair he keeps.
Imagine your hair being human and smoking a lot of 
pot. It just happens that way. 
 Hafeez Raji, senior design major
He says that, although he changes his 
color every month or so, he doesnt often 
alter the mohawk. When he wants to 
change the shape of his hair, he just uses 
some hairspray and makes spikes.
Of course, if you go for a do like Hafeez 
Rajis (senior, design), you dont need to 
worry about clippers at all. Raji has what 
can best be called modified dredlocks, 
and he never has to cut them. In fact, he 
doesnt need to wash them, either. They 
require minimal upkeep.
Raji describes the process of getting hair 
like his by saying, Imagine your hair 
being human and smoking a lot of pot. It 
just happens that way. He goes on to 
explain that he got tired of all the care that
with my complexion, he said. 
His hair is now naturally dark 
brown.
As for Darby, White convinced 
him to change his natural hair 
color because, I like to see black 
guys with blonde hair, he said. 
Darby then added that Jackson 
ended up joining them because 
he was, jumping on the band
wagon. Jackson denied this by 
saying that hed actually done it 
to enhance [his] beauty.
The whole dying process took 
a fair amount of time. Jackson 
left the dye on his hair for about 
an hour, while Darby and White 
left it on for about 20 minutes
Born Blonde is only really 
meant to be left in for twenty 
minutes, but Jackson was happy 
the way it looked after an 
, and it hadnt burned his 
hair, so he washed it out.
Dyeing with regular Clairoltype colors is one of those great 
things that you can do if you 
want a change, but nothing too drastic.
You can go blonde or black or auburn, 
and perhaps youll surprise your friends 
and family, but you wont actually offend 
anyone. You just put the stuff in (although 
sometimes you need to strip the old color 
first), wait, and rinse.
Manic Panic and similar dyes tend to be 
more technicolor shocking, but easier to 
use. Often, you can use them right on dry 
hair and only, need rinse them. Unfortu
nately, if you choose fuchsia as your new 
haircolor, prepare for a potentially hostile 
job maket, as well as a rather unaccepting 
general public.
The same is true for some hairstyles, as 
well. Raji, who intends to keep his dreds 
after graduation, admitted it might be
come a problem when looking for a job. 
However, he also said that some [design] 
firms are more open-minded than others, 
and thats th kind of place Id want to 
work for anyway.
Douglass has few fears about finding 
acceptance for his hairstyle choice in the 
art world. He said, I worked for the Arts 
Festival this summer, and they didnt even 
make me take out any of my piercings. 
Douglass has, however, been hassled by 
the average citizen. Pittsburgh is bad for 
that, he said.
ior, civil engineering)  were all going Of the three freshly-dyed men, White 
blonde. The three bought a package of will keep dying his hair blonde without 
Born Blonde at the local Revco and, well, fear. Jackson said that he would continue
went into maintaining his previous style, 
so he quit combing it, let it grow naturally, 
and just started twisting it until it got a bit 
curly and, in his words, kind of nappy.
Note that Raji, unlike most people with 
dredlocks, never put any honey, mud, or 
any of the other typical organic substances 
used for such hairstyles in his hair. How
ever, like others with a similar style, he 
avoids getting it wet because it looks like 
a mop, when that happens.
Curtis Jackson (physics major) has 
dredlocks like Rajis, only somewhat more 
traditional.
He used honey in his, and it took about 
three and a half hours to get them all in.
It may have taken him more work to get 
his, but Jacksons dreds are a bit more 
permanent than Rajis. They can be washed 
or gotten wet without fear. They go back to 
their original shape.
When last I spoke with him, Jackson and 
two of his friends  Adam Darby (senior, 
technical writing) and Chris White (junwent blonde.
When asked why they chose to dye their 
hair, White said that he does it regularly 
anyway. I was bom blonde. It looks better
dying his as well, and he didnt seem con
cerned with whether or not the color or his 
dreds would be accepted. Darby wants to 
try green next time.
Yuzo Watanabe/Tartan Photographer 
Michel Reid, a mechanical engineering junior, lets his braids 
flop about his head.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Acting PhotoEditor 
Once again, Chris White is applying a bit of color to a friends hair. This time, his 
patient" is Adam Darby, senior technical writing major.
ruzo watanaoe/ tartan rnotograpner 
Fuzzed and Buzzed! Adam Gulkis of the art department has 
the special two-in-one 'do.

---------------------------------------------------

THE
PERFECT
HAS
ARRIVED
OpHiwrity The, /I/MW Pizza :
Oakland / Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd.
(near North Craig)
@8yA7y7y
PAPA
Now hiring delivery people.
i One 16" Extra 
! Large One Topping
$7A J + Tax
Additional toppings % 1.00 each 
| Not valid with any other coupon 
| Valid only at participating stores
o______________
Two 14" Large 
One ToppiiKjm
8
Tax
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAlAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
Perfect Brunch or I One 14" Large 
Late Night Munch | One Topping & An 99 I Order of Breadsticks$5+ Tax$7
99
+ Tax
(Mon. - Thun. 1 lom-4pm, 9pm-doje) . Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Additional toppings $.70 each | N0f valid with any other coupon 
Not valid with any other coupon i Valid only at participating stores 
Valid only at participating stores j
Campus Mass 
Schedule
Sundays: (in the old wing behind Posner Hall)10:30 8:00
AM Posner Hall (GSIA), 
Mellon Auditorium
PM Posner Hall (GSIA),
Mellon Auditorium
4 Stuaent Choir J
Sunday Night!
Weekdays Mon-Fri:12:30PM in Student Center (Navy Bid) Room 224
Ryan Catholic Newman Center
4450 Bayard Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
681-3181
Staff
.* Call 6I-31I i 
to talk to us
Fr. Bryan Summers, C.O., Directo 
Fr. David Abernethy, C.O.
Fr. Joseph Linck, C.O.
Sr. Bernadette Young, C.D.P.
A Workshop
for Emerging Student Leaders 
and Current Student Leaders
Saturday, September 23,1995 
Noon - 5:00pm in the Student Center
Registration Forms Available At The Student Center Information Desk 
On September 12th. Deadline For Registration Is September 20th. 
For More Information, Contact Pat Harned At 268-2110.
The Program Is Open To All Members Of The Campus Community. 
Sponsored By The Department Of Student Activities
Carnegie Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 1995L9
Comic guru finds new treat
Comic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
If Ive only learned one thing 
from my father, its to never turn
on the first two issues, and 
Roberto Corona on the third and 
fourth installments.
To sum up the plot in a combi
nation of four movies: Flatliners, 
Stargate, The Ten Command
ments, and Im sorry to say it, 
Reality Bites. So this means it 
involves near death experiences, 
pseudo-intellectual slackers, and 
warping to Egypt.
Im not that familiar with 
Milligans work but Im sure 
Egypt is some of his best writing.
in the book, although the pro
tagonist, Vincent, is getting less 
despicable. The dialogue is very 
sharp and definitely earns the 
Mature Readers warning. The 
slacker college kids are extremely 
shallow; so shallow that it seems 
like Milligan did research at my 
high school for them. Although I 
usually have a hard time liking 
something about people I hate, 
for some reason it doesnt bother
The only thing that could make
free movies, free Mumia, and best 
of all, free comics. DC comics was 
kind enough to send me a pre| view of a new mini-series from 
their Vertigo imprint, Egypt.
Egypt is one of those books Id 
page through, think about buy
ing but be frugal. Now that DC 
^-sent me a four-page preview, I 
-read that and decided to return 
the favor by buying the real book. 
Good choice.
Regretfully, the series is half
paperback later. Theyre both 
about the same price.
Jason Andracki is a junior pro
fessional writing major. To in
crease your enjoyment of Egypt 
try to find a.copy of this summer's 
Time Life Ancient Lands series (a
.pSaaIhIg2
I fOR SALE
MAC llci: 12/120, 16 Mirror 
monitor, extended keyboard, etc. 
5600. Call 681-2562.
JOBS
Math Tutor wanted for 10th 
grade algebra. (Female with prior 
teaching exp. preferred.) Private 
home adjacent to campus. Call 
681-2562.
Earn 5500 or more weekly 
stuffing envelopes at home. Send 
SASE to: Country Living Shoppers, 
Dept. C22, PO Box 1 779,
Denham Springs, LA 70727.
Club leaders for Young judea.
Responsible, creative, must like 
children. Judaic background 
required. Sunday meetings. 
September-April employment. 
Salary plus expense. Licensed 
[river. Call Young Judea Regional 
'ffice @ 521 -4877
SPRING BREAK! TRAVEL FREE
with Sun Splash Tours, "The 
Reliable Spring Break Company!" 
We pay the Highest commissions, 
at the lowest prices. Campus Reps 
wanted to sell Jamaica, Cancn, 
Bahamas, Daytona, Panama City 
and South Padre. Call for Informa
tion, Reservations & Prices. 1 -800- 
426-7710
Wanted Wonderfully Creative 
People: Proofreader wanted for 
children's story. Story is 20 pages 
long approximately. Copies of 
document will be provided in 3.5" 
disk. Document is copywritten. 
Storyboard developer. Song 
editor. Renumeration for services. 
Serious inquires only. Please call 
741-0867. Leave message.
Managers wanted. The athletic 
department is looking for two 
football and two soccer managers. 
Work 15-20 hours per week at 4.25 
per hour. Call Tony Wingen or 
Ann Haggerty at 268-2213
Spring Break '96 - Sell trips, earn 
cash & go free! Student Travel
Services is now hiring campus 
representatives. Lowest rates to 
Jamaica, Cancn, Daytona and 
Panama City Beach. Call 1-800- 
648-4849.
yOLUNTEER
Singers wanted. Cardinal Wright 
Oratory Choir, Heinz Chapel. 
Rehearsals
Sundays 10:00 to noon, Mass 
noon to one. Contact Angie, 687- 
7955.
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........$5.00/wk
21-50 words..........$8.00/wk
51-100 words.......511.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box! 7 
Carnegie Mellon Univerisity 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and organiza
tions may pay by journal transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
Carnegie Mellon
Carnegie Institute Of TechnologyProudly Acknowledges The Academic 
Achievement Of The Following Engineering Undergraduates 
Who Have Been Named To The Deans List For The
Spring Semester 1995:
i
 DC Comics
Egypt, from DC Comics, is not your typical superhero comic. Phone booths aren't likely to be the Pharoahs 
first choice for changing rooms, but check out the thing anyway  it looks cool.
down anything free: free food, His British wit is extremely bit- this book better would be an ap
ing. pearance by' Charleton Heston.
Plus, he constantly slips in There are two issues to go, so I
Egyptian-related metaphors such might get it yet.
as, I was drifting on a numbed Heres some free advice: Eead 
Nile of pleasure, which although Egypt now or wait for the trade
they are corny, put a smile on my 
face. Dillons art on the first two 
issues is superior to Coronas on 
issue three. Dillons style is much 
more realistic, which suits abook 
like this, whereas Corona tends 
to be a bit cartoonish. Im eager to 
see if one of them will be providover (issue #3 came out a week ing the art on the last third of surprisingly great series, espe,.ago).ItswrittenbyPeterMilligan Egypt, or ifit will be a new artist, daily for network TV), andvisit 
t (Enigma,TheEaters,aiiiShade, Milligan does a great job at the Carnegie Museums Egypt 
-and almost every other Vertigo writing truly despicable charac- room: Its halfoff with a CMU ID, 
book), with art by Glynn Dillon ters. There isnt a likeable person which is half as good as free.
John C. Alden MEG
Jason S. Bertschi ECE 
Kirsten Buttler MEG
David C. Calvo MEG
Matthew I. Campbell MEG 
Hui Fen Chan ECE
Kuie-Che Cheng ECE 
Alongkrit T. Chutinan ECE 
Joel A. Cohen CHE
John M. Cosnek ECE
Timothy J. Davison ECE 
Timothy E. Deglau CHE 
Christopher P. Diehl ECE 
Eric A. Dunmire ECE/EPP 
Eric M. Furst CHE
Michael A. Gibson ECE 
William D. Hanley CHE 
Jason M. Harman MSE 
Buit N. Holzman MEG 
Soshi Iba ECE
David M. Iorio CIV
SENIORS
Daniel P. Kammerer MEG 
James P. Kampf CHE
Omar R. Khan ECE
Piroon Klavohm ECE
Carey K. Kloss ECE
Karsten M. Koch CIV 
Pasan Kulvanit MEG
Manu S. Kumar ECE
Thomas J. Lamonica CIV 
Bertrand Y. Lee ECE
Kencheong Lim ECE
Michael D. MacEdoniaCHE 
Michael R. Malone ECE 
Lawrence J. Mathers CHE 
David W. Mathey MEG/EPP 
John P. Matoney CHE/EPP 
Hasan Metla ECE
David P. MickelsonECE/EPP 
J ohn A. Miller ECE
Amy M. Montanelli CHE 
Sharon J. Morgan CHE
Craig W. Nitchman CHE 
Eric J. Paul CHE
Jaime L. Perdue CHE
Christian D. Ravotta CIV 
Erin K. Roseman CHE 
Alexander M. Sharf ECE 
Robert E. Shenk CHE 
Chan H. Shin MEG
Joel A. Shodi CIV
Robert J. Simms MEG 
Pomthep Srisaan ECE 
David J. Stager ECE
Arak Sutivong ECE
Chayakom ThanomsatMEG 
Karthik Vasudeevan CHE 
Lori Weiss CHE
Eric B. Wheeler ECE
Jesse P. Whittemore ECE 
Christopher B. Wilkerson ECE 
Corey W. Zinn MSE
JUNIORS
Rahul BafnaMEGDavid R. DropCHEAaron B. NealCIV
Nathaniel J. BarlowECEThomas J. DytkoECEShih Chun NgiamMEG
Ido Ben-ShacharECEStuart B. EllisMEGTodd R. OkimotoMEG
Arijit BiswasECEStacy L. GaborMSEAllon E. RauerECE
Andreas BogliMSEDaniel E. GiammarCIVSanjay R. RaviECE
Colin J. BrodskyCHEBrian D. GuzziMEGMatthew P. RubaiMEG
Kanitha A. BumsMEGCheryl L. HarrisECEDiego Santa CruzECE
David A. BylerCIVJoseph L. HostenyECEGeorge C. ScottCHE
Todd P. CamillMEGChuck HouCHAndrew T. ShefmanMEG
Li ChenECEJohn H. KimMEGAngela L. SnyderECE
Tony C. ChenECEOzge H. KoymenECEKevin J. StanleyMSE
Brian E. ChoyECESum Yim S. KungECEStephanie S. StineCHE
Sianjin R. ChuaECEConnie LewMSEDavit T. StottECE
June Z. ChungMEGEdmund F. LoprestiECEScott A. ThompsonCHE
Jason N. CohenCIVJames R. MillerECEWei C. TngECE
Jeffrey A. CoyneCHEJaime J. MoralesMEGJuan A. VillarroelECE
Keith T. DickersonCIVJohn M. MortonECEPatrick M. WalshCIV
Kyle B. DriscollMEGGregory D. MumpowerMEGJeremy M. ZelsnackECE
SOPHOMORES
Catherine M. BishopMSEJason M. FungECEStephanie L. PostalECE
Rebecca B. BuchheitCIVAnat Gal-OrMEGAron L. RalstonMEG
Daniel CheongCHESamuel J. GersteinECEBohuslav RuchlikECE
Edward T. CheungECEBrian D. HutsellECEChristine K. ShambachCHE
Taek J. ChoiMEGChad A. JasiunasCHERonak SinghalECE
Deborah C. CohenCIVSabeena JindalCHEWarinthom SongasiriCHE
Adam A. D'AmbrosioECEChatchai Khunpitiluck ECEKatherine A. StrinkaCIV
Drew A. DavidsonMEGTimothy J. KnivetonECEEdgardo TorresMEG
Bradley W. DietrichECEBrandon P. LaiECEChetan TrikhaECE
Indra DjutrisnoMEGWee Tee LimECENicholas M. VallidisMSE
John G. DorseyECEEmmett G. MatthewsECEChristopher E. WhiteCIV
Melinda L. DrakeCHESteven J. MeyersCHEAndrew WidodoMEG
Brendan H. DunhamECEMichael S. MontemerloECERaechelle K. WongMSE
Bassem S. El-DasherMEGMatthew J. MyersECEJon T. YardECE
John R. FletcherMEGJon P. NedelECERudolph W. YeungECE
Andrew J. FloresMEGAnthony C. PaulCIVSebastian H. ZieslerECE
Stephen R. FoxCHEPadmanabhan PillaiECE
FRESHMEN
Bader K. Al-EssaMEGGarth R. GoodsonECELuis A. QuirogaMEG
Gil AlertovitzECEHarsha S. HakkalCHEVarun RaiECE
Michael L. ArzabeMEGAudie HanpachemECEMatthew J. RicheyECE
Noah W. BamfordECEBrian J. IngramMSEAlejandro M. RodriguezECE
Kevin S. BatikCIVElizabeth M. JacobsCIVForest E. RoyseCHE
Mark D. BedillionMEGDavid J. KimCHESteven SchkolneECE
Eugene Z. BertaECEAltug KoymenCHETimothy A. SeigerECE
Jason M. BerzanskyCHEBryon P. KrugECEParag S. ShahCHE
George A. BlahaMEGJesus LopezCHEDoug A. ShontzCHE
Jason W. BuelowMEGGregory J. MannECERobert E. SlaterECE
Joseph P. BumeffECEKendra M. McCoyCHEChadd E. SlezakCHE
Jeffrey M. ButlerECEJason R. McDowallECEJansian Tai ECE/EPP
Brian M. ChristopherCHERenee A. McFeatersCHEBrian C. VanEssenECE
Paul C. Constantinides ECEChad O. McMahillCHEMauricio VivesECE
Lisa A. CookCHEPhillip D. MichalakMEGAndrew C. WangECE
Michael J. CurrieECEDilip R. MujumdarMEG/EPPScott J. WeberECE
Kris N. DahlCHEPhilip T. O'HaraECELisa I. WernerECE
Michael C. DaumECEGlen C. OngECEJeffrey D. WilleyECE
Arijit DeyECESteven J. PierenCHEBrodee D. WilsonECE
Damien F. DixonECEKaren E. PinkstonCIVRichard A. YavorskyECE
Fred C. DoerrECEJonathan B. PompaMEGMing-Yuan YehECE
Phillip G. EzoltECEPradya Prempraneerach MEGI. Ching YehECE
William O. FerryECE
Last week's issue of the Tartan included the incorrect CIT Dean's List announcement. 
The correct list is printed above. The Tartan corrects all errors of fact.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Where 
work at the
Swiss Bank 
Corporation?
AT YOUR PEAK. At Swiss Bank Corporation, youll rise
to the challenge and accept responsibility as quickly as your talents 
and efforts will allow.
With assets of $132 billion, an impressive client base and the recent 
acquisition of one of the worlds premier investment banking institu
tions, S.G. Warburg, we are leveraging our strength to become the 
global investment banking leader of the next century. And technology 
is central to our competitive advantage in the global marketplace.
SBC technologies produce state-of-the-art software solutions that 
allow investment bankers, traders, portfolio managers and marketing 
teams to analyze vast amounts of real-time information. This tech
nology is also used in developing customer-driven financial engineer
ing solutions, complex mathematical models and leading edge sales 
and trading applications. Using new and emerging technology, our 
Applications Developers create and refine models that help traders 
and marketing teams analyze global financial markets.
We believe that the strategic application of technology is essential to 
our success and are seeking individuals who will help us continue 
our technological leadership in the financial industry. If you are ener
getic, confident and eager for responsibility, have the superior com
munication skills to work successfully with clients throughout the 
organization as well as members of your team, we invite you to 
attend our Campus Presentation:
Thursday, September 21st  7PM-9PM 
Student Center, Room
If you are excited by the possibilities of reaching new heights of success, 
but cannot attend this presentation, please forward your resume to: 
Human Resources, Swiss Bank Corporation, P.O. Box 395, Church 
Street Station, NY, NY 10008. E-mail: bob_dentice@il.us.swissbank.com 
An Equal Opportunity Employer.
While the operations of Swiss Bank Corporation and S.G. Warburg 
have been successfully integrated in most parts of the world, in the 
U.S., the Swiss Bank Corporation will be fully integrated with S.G. 
Warburg upon Federal Reserve Board approval.
Swiss Bank Corporation
r\  '1 . , V 'y,
; ; Hv;.jlgi '.-S'

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 1995xpp
jwraI.ISCJa ag.MC2 
Sp6r1 -ggva TrSpI0i
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Staffwriter
About a year ago, I got to review Ben Harpers 
phenomenal debut, Welcome to the Real World.
I was really impressed by his slidework, his 
bluesy roots, and his lyrical stabs at racism* 
oppression, and general evil in the world.
Who: Ben Harper 
What: Fight For Your Mind 
Label: EMI Virgin Records
His passion mirrors that of Tracy Chapmans, 
and his loose style parallels that of Edie Brickell 
and the New Bohemians. Well, having heard 
| this years release, Fight For Your Mind, I can 
I say this: Ben Harpers back, 
i and hes learned a few new 
tricks.
The album opens with Op
pression, a folky blues song 
in which Harper refers to op
pression as an entity, and lets 
; it know that he isnt going to 
let it affect him in any way.
This tune is average Ben
Harper fare; slidey finger-  ig95 EMj Virgin Records
picked rhythms over a nice, tight drum 
loop.
But in the segue between Oppression and 
the second track, Ground on Down, Harper 
reveals the extra trick on this album: the elec
tric guitar. Ground on Down (Youre working 
| your way/From the ground on down) is four 
minutes and 52 seconds of the most aggresi sively laid-back music youll ever hear, creating 
; such a dramatically oxymoronic balance that 
the listener is completely moved. I found it
impossible to stay put in my chair as the album 
rocked on. These two extremes are then deftly 
balanced for the rest of the album, which ends 
with One Road to Freedom, a lighter-waving 
finale that rocks the listeners gently to peace.
His lyrical strength is definitely intact, as is 
shown throughout the disc. Whether he bluntly 
expresses his need to not just be a friend to the 
woman he loves in Please Me Like You Want 
To, (Dont do me any favors/matter of fact why 
dont you do yourself a few) or gives a stirring 
middle finger to the disgracefully pompous men 
in society who take the respect of adulthood but 
dont deserve it in Excuse Me Mr. (Excuse me 
Mr./Do you have the time/or are you so impor
tant/ that it stands still for you), his delivery is 
superb and heartfelt.
His musicianship has 
tightened up a bitthe slips 
and slides that listeners fa
miliarized themselves with a 
year ago arent absent, but 
they dont dominate as often 
as they did on the last record.
This album makes for a tre
mendous follow-up to his de
but, completely avoiding the 
infamous Sophomore Slump 
that so many of the best re
cording artists fare poorly against. Its another 
killer blend of blues, bluegrass, folk, gospel, and 
soul that thrills its audience from start to finish. 
Ive always thought that its not bad to get more 
of a good thing, and Harper seems to be very 
willing to give it to his audience, with enhance
ments along the way. I give this a heavy recom
mendation to anyone who checks out coffee
house music, and to anyone who listens to WYEP 
on a regular basis.
qrM 1S-ga TrI.- Sp6r1
By BELL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
A-E-I-O-U and sometimes Y. 
These women now have their own 
movement. Im referring to the 
recent release of the self-titled 
album Vowel Movement.
Who: Holly Vincent and Johnette Napolitano 
What: Vowel Movement 
Label: Mammoth Records
Vowel Movement con
sists of Johnette Nap
olitano, who some of you 
may remember as the 
lead singer for the band 
Concrete Blonde, and 
Holly Vincent, who in the 
early 80s gained popu
larity with Holly and the 
Italians, but has more 
recently been fronting the 
band The Oblivious.
Both women, friends 
from way back at the be
ginning of their careers 
when they both worked 
as waitresses in the same 
restaurant, decided to be 
spontaneous at a show 
where The Oblivious was 
opening for Concrete Blonde.
The women donned huge plati
num wigs and did a happy birth
day tribute to their road man
ager as Vowel Movement. The 
idea was so well received that the 
girls headed for the studio.
Six amazing days later they 
emerged with an album. Yes, I 
said six. They didnt stop for 
things like lyrics or riffs. They 
just went to the studio and had 
about 14 jam sessions. I think 
they did pretty well.
The album starts off with Di
nosaur to which there is a video
which is something that I person- where else.
ing. Dont let this deter you, 
though. What these women ac
complished in six days would take 
most bands six months to do. The 
sixth track on the album, Las 
Vegas starts off with the sounds 
of a handful of coins rolling across 
a tabletop, something that you 
definitely would not find someally think would be interesting to 
watch.
The album has a few glaring 
errors on it, and paging through
 Mammoth Records 
the publicity layout, I found out 
why.
Vowel Movement only did about 
five re-takes on the entire 14- 
track album. There are spots on 
the album where you can hear 
one or both of the women laugh- or otherwise.
Other memorable tracks in
clude Death of a Surfer, a song 
that features Napolitano doing a 
spoken word with Vincent in the 
background playing the 
bass. Jesus, which is an 
upbeat song, reminded me 
of such power groups as 
the Ramones. The one 
thing that really confused 
me about the album was 
the fact that tracks 10 and 
14 had the same name. I 
found that there was a 
really simple explanation 
for that: theyre the same 
song. The tracks are called 
Jackie Baby, and al
though there are minor 
differences between the 
two, the song is done well 
enough to listen to twice.
With no basis for com
parison since this is the 
groups first album, Id have to 
say that the nonsensical guitar 
riffs combined with dreamy vo
cals that are just slightly above 
mumbling, make this an incred
ibly enjoyable movement, vowel
Desperado delights critic
By APRIL C. MOATE
'Tartan Staffwriter
Written, produced, and directed 
by Robert Rodriguez, Desperado 
is a sequel to Rodriguezs highly 
jacclaimed El Mariachi. It stars 
Antonio Banderas (The Mambo 
'gs, Interview with the Vam
pire) as El Mariachi himself, a 
Mexican guitar player who is on a 
mission to avenge the murder of 
his lover.
hat: Desperado 
irector: Robert Rodriguez
j The mariachi is looking for a 
man named Bucho, who is re
sponsible for her death. Banderas 
sidekick/right-hand man is 
played by Steve Buscemi.
| (Quentin Tarantino fans will re
member him as Mr. Pink from 
:Reservoir Dogs.) Tarantino him
self makes a cameo appearance 
before he, and just about every
one else in the movie is blown 
away in one of the many ultraviolent shoot-outs, all spawned 
somehow by the mariachi, that 
take place in a small Mexican 
town.
The movie opens with Buscemi 
entering a dusty, seedy-looking 
bar and telling a story of the 
----Mexican hes ever
seen, who came into another bar 
with a guitar case full of guns, 
looking for a man named Bucho, 
and didnt stop firing until he got 
the information he wanted. The 
story is a ploy to get the barmder, played by Cheech Marin,
or anyone else in the place to clue 
them in to Buchos whereabouts. 
Along the path to finding Bucho, 
the mariachi finds himself on a 
rampage, blowing away anyone 
who interferes with his quest. He 
also finds (of course) a beautiful 
woman, who helps him out and 
also gives the movie basis for a 
steamy love scene.
If you havent seen El Mariachi 
yet, dont worry. Desperado 
stands on its own, and you wont 
be left clueless about the events 
that lead up to the mariachis 
quest for vengeance. If asked for 
a short opinion about Desperado, 
I would simply tell you to run, 
dont walk to see this movie.
This film is so over-the-top that 
Robert Rodriguz is on his way to 
being grouped into the overnight 
success director category that is 
changing the movie industry. As 
of now, probably the only other 
director who can be placed into 
this category is Quentin Tar
antino.
While some of the action se
quences are a bit exaggerated, 
they all work, and Rodriguez 
takes this movie to a level that 
few action and suspense movies 
are ever able to achieve. The cam
era work is bold, and the music 
(performed by Los Lobos) height
ens the drama of all of the action 
in a seductive way.
The dialogue, while not always 
incredibly original, is candid and 
intriguing. The story told by 
Tarantinos character only adds 
more flavor and will keep you 
chuckling for days.
As if all of this was not enough, 
Rodriguez threw in Banderas, 
who can make even a bad movie 
worth watching. As the mariachi, 
he proves himself to be more than 
just.a sensuous Latin-lover type. 
Granted, his piercing eyes and 
sensuous lips (not to mention his 
sexy Spanish accent) are enough 
to make any woman weak in the 
knees.
His character is at times dark 
and menacing, but in the pres
ence of his lover seems vulner
able and boyish. His intense stare 
alone strikes some level of fear 
into each man who tries to get in 
his way.
Everything about the movie fits 
together like a puzzle. As long as 
you arent weak at heart and can 
handle a little (actually, a lot) of 
blood and guts, I challenge you to 
watch this movie and not enjoy it, 
as a guilty pleasure or as a vic
tory of originality in an often blas 
medium.
Oblivion unleashes talent
By ANDREW McDERMOTT
Tartan Acting Photo Editor
People always say that expe
rience is the best source to draw 
from for creative inspiration, 
and this has proven true for 
director Tom DiCillo. For along 
time, DiCillo attempted to get 
funding for his second movie, 
Moonshine in a Box.
What: Living in Oblivion 
Director: Tom DiCillo
He met with failure after fail
ure to generate more interest 
in his current project, and his 
frustration mounted until he 
started the project that became 
Living in Oblivion.
Initially a half-hour short he 
hoped to show at film festivals, 
Living in Oblivion evolvedinto 
a full length feature when he 
could not get the short entered 
in a festival. The rest of the 
picture was filmed later by 
DiCillo and the same crew, with 
the hopes of getting more exposure with a feature length film. 
The movie consists of two dreams 
plus the actual day of shooting at 
the set of a small movie called 
Living in Oblivion. The first 
dream is the directors, the sec
ond the lead actresss.
In the first dream, the director, 
played by Steve Buscemi, suffers 
setbacks of every type imagin
able as he pursues what seems to 
be a simple shot. Eventually he 
curses the idiocy of all the people 
he works with. Then he wakes 
up, feeling exhausted, and leaves 
for the day of shooting. Take af
ter take, the two actresses in the 
scene manage to perfectly nail 
down different types of perfor
mances that impressively range 
from horrendous to indifferent to 
perfect.
The second dream consists of 
the anxiety that the lead actress, 
played by Catherine Keener, has 
about her co-star, an untalented 
Hollywood hunk cast only for his 
marquee value. The actor is a 
veiled stab at Brad Pitt, who 
starred in DiCillos first movie
Johnny Suede. The actor arro
gantly goes about focusing the 
scene on himself, forcing the 
director to change the scene to 
his taste. The dischord on the 
set builds, until the actress 
wakes. The parody of Pitt is 
funny, but is even more effec
tive because of how the joke is 
applied to all Hollywood hunks.
The third section is the ac
tual day of shooting on the set 
after the dreams. Once again 
trouble quickly ensues, from 
problems with the smoke ma
chine, a dwarf, and the unex
pected appearance of the 
directors senile mother.
The frustration that DiCillo 
feels as a director comes 
through clearly in the film. He 
shows the myriad of difficul
ties that can happen in the 
making of the movie, and not 
just from his view, but the view
points of the entire cast. Maybe 
the humor and intelligence of 
this film will help DiCillo have 
his other ideas realized and 
his phone calls returned.
 The Lowest 
Student, Youth & Budget Airfares
 Eurail Passes issued on the spot!
 Adventure Tours  Budget Accommodations
 International Student, Teacher & Youth ID
 Hostel Memberships
 Language Programs Worldwide
 Work Abroad programs & More!
igNN ews Edoo [.:N SA]: msgGAN][ LgJgul]Ah
CouncilTravel
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange
Internet: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
118 Meyran Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15213________
> 683-1881
Surprise your folks.
When you stay awake in class, you tend to learn more. (Unless you have an uncanny 
talent of learning through osmosis.) So don't let fatigue get in the way of your A, Revive 
with Vivarin. One tablet has the same amount of caffeine as about two cups of coffee. 
And it's just as safe. Hey, anything is possible, if you're up for it.
1995 IMJ Consumer Hoalthcaro .
Use only as directed.Revive with Vivarin!

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 1995
By DAVID KORAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Imagine three brothers, on a journey, 
a journey between relationships ... 
theyve entered ... the Love Zone. Yes, 
this movie has it all: the spills, the thrills, 
and definitely the humor inherent in all 
relationships.
what love and women are really all about. 
Jack (Jack Mulcahy), who is married, 
and has the most stable of relationships, 
is falling into the pit of an affair while 
battling his better senses. Barry (Burns,
who cast himself due to budget con- Bahns), the unsuspecting girl of his 
straints)hasjust finished what he deems dreams. Finally, there is Patrick, the 
a long-term relationship of just a couple most devout and most troubled of the 
of months, and while looking for a place three. His situation leads him to doubt 
to live, stumbles upon Audry (Maxine his beliefs and his future, tom between
What: The Brothers McMullen 
Director: Edward Burns 
Company: FOX Searchlight Pictures
Thats what makes the winner of this 
years Sundance Film Festival Grand 
Jury Prize one of the more enjoyable 
movies of the year. Directed by new
comer, and former Entertainment To
night production assistant, Edward 
Burns, The Brothers McMullen enters 
into the fray of late-summer movies as a 
welcome relief to this summers bigbudget, go-nowhere romantic comedies. 
Incidentally, this film was made on a 
shoestring budget of $24,000.
The Brothers McMullen explores the 
intricasies of being an Irish Roman 
Catholic looking for the one true love 
in the fast-paced and temptuous 90s. 
Three brothers, Jack, Barry, and Patrick 
McMullen, are in differing levels of re
lationships, each trying to figure out
 1995 Twentieth Century Fox
The Brothers McMullen: Jack (Jack Mulcahy, left), Barry (Edward Burns, center), and Patrick (Mike McGlone, right), sit with 
Audry (Maxine Bahns, center right) over a few beers and some condiments.
his romanticism and two women.
There are many fine moments in thj 
movie, moments that anyone, no matte 
what their status is relationship-wise 
will appreciate.
The humor displayed in the dialogs 
and situations was well-placed, well 
timed, and all around, just plain grea 
(especially the banana theory scene 
which is definitely worth the price 
admission).
The music for this movie was provide 
by Seamus Eagan, ranging from mello; 
acoustic music to sprited Irish flute tune 
from two of his previous albums.
The title song, I Will Remember You. 
was performed by Canadian singer 
songwriter Sarah McLachlan, who vis 
ited Pittsburgh this summer while tout 
ing with the traditional Irish musicians 
The Chieftans. The title track emobodie 
much of what the movie is about, whic 
seems very rare with movie tunes now; 
days, a definite relief and unexpecte 
pleasure.
Bums next project is another romai 
tic comedy; one which, after this pie; 
surable experience, I am definitely gi 
ing to look forward to seeing.
The Brothers McMullen is current] 
playing at The Rex in the South Side 
and is being held over until at leas 
September 28.
Brothers McMullen a,M8a 1SCi hICg hgS0rsga
(MuiTom m
oG2A1MM2 
11 v1 0M \mlm hS
iv4ng ta 10pm io 12fl(nivv fa)
OMLflND OH TOb-E (OAHU Oi ATWOOD ST. i MTiS ST. Q8b -EQEG 
OH fflOlHK.-DOMS Om maHTVM SQUflW ?QQ-ECEQ
Discover the Joy of Photography
and
Learn to take great pictures 
by attending 
The Kodak/ Kadet Photo Seminars
Basic: Wednesday Sept. yW, 7AbW P.M.
Advanced: Thursday Sept. yb, 7AbW P.M. 
at: The Radison Hotel 
(in front of the Monroeville Mall) 
Call: Kadet Photo for tickets and further information
261-7258
From the inventor of mountain bikes, Gary Fisher offers a Limited Edition Grateful Dead Hoo Koo E Koo designed with "Dead Bone Art" by Prarie Prince, an illustrator forthe Grateful Dead, This bike's Cro-Moly frame, Rock Shox Quadra 21 front suspension fork and Tioga Psycho-KS tires are designed to keep you truckin' off road without missing a beat.!
Check out the Limited Editon Grateful Dead Hoo Koo E Koo 
and the entire line of Fisher Bikes during Pro BikesBM TU SCHM S/UI
Free Bad Bones U Lock With Every Fisher Bike Purchase!
'IT Pittsburgh Pro Bicycles
; I X 2012 Murray Ave. Squirrel Hilt 521-2453
Looking to furnish your apartment? 
We have what you need.
Youll have cash to spare for 
extracurricular activities! 
USED HOTEL FURNITURE 
SAVE 50% - 90% everyday
200 N. Braddock st. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15208 
(near intersection of 
Braddock and Penn Ave.) 
(412) 731 - 9856

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  11 September 1995L13
the brains behind the brains
behind the future
Thursday, September 14
Luna Park
Although this movie does not star Quentin 
Tarantino, it is still an interesting piece of work. 
Luna means moon, as we all know, and this is very 
important to the story. There are these guys that 
do things that are interesting and theres a lot of 
things related to the moon. To be honest, I have no 
idea what this is about, and even the books I go 
through told me nothing. Nothing, I tell you!
So, go see this movie. Itll be a surprise. Tell me 
what it was about. Email jbdi and keep me posted. 
Im as clueless as you, but Im sure its an impor
tant film and fairly artsy, as are all the films on 
Thursday.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, September 15
Kiss of Death
Starring Samuel Look Ma! Quentin made me 
famous! Look! L. Jackson and David Caruso, this 
remake of an old movie is about cops and gang
sters. See, Caruso has to help this guy steal a car. 
Something goes wrong and Caruso gets arrested 
and a police-guy gets shot in the face. Then Caruso 
goes to jail and hangs out with Nicolas Cage. 
Theres a little bit of everything in here: revenge, 
faces being shot off, police. Its chock-full-o-plots.
Its a fairly recent movie and received fairly good 
reviews. If youre looking to see someone shot in 
the face, its a pretty good deal, you know? See it 
with someone who has been shot in the face.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, September 16
Sneakers
This is a movie about some weird, new-fangled 
box that can crack any code in the entire world, 
which is pretty neat if you think about it. I bet it 
could crack decoder wheels on the back of Captn 
Crunch really quickly. It might take longer for 
codes like the kind you wrap around a stick to read, 
like I saw on Mr. Wizard. And it might take a while 
to figure out the kind that you tatoo on someones 
head and then send off, along with the guy, to the 
other person who is supposed to crack the code, but 
its a pretty impressive box, nonetheless.
Anyway, this movie stars River Phoenix, Dan I 
like Quentin Akroyd, and Robert Redford in a 
compu-chiller thriller that will keep you barking 
for more of that sweet, sweet stuff. Look for the 
Cray being run by a terminal with Windows on it. 
Thats a little ha-ha for you techies, so you can get 
your well-deserved jollies. Go to it.
At 5:30, 7:45, 10 pm, and 12:15 am.
Sunday, September 17
High School Confidential
For all you weed smokers out there, this is the 
movie for you. Bolster your feelings of smug supe
riority! Know that you are not alone in an everwidening world! Know that the guy that keeps 
pushing your arm and laughing about the shape of 
your nose in some smoke-filled room really isnt as 
bad as he seems and he isnt out to get you! Finally, 
really feel you can accept that there are no cops in 
Taco Bell and that evenif there were, they wouldnt 
arrest you even if you go in there smelling like 
Jerry Garcias wake!
High School Confidential, made in the 50s, is a 
startling expose on the dangers and mirthful may
hem of pot-fiends. Its movies like this that spear
headed the anti-drug movements and the decline 
of western civilization. Starring MichaelQuentin 
Landon and Drew Barrymores dad or uncle or 
something, this is a movie youll genuinely get a 
kick out of. That is, of course, if youre not in one of 
those moods where everything is pretty damn 
funny and smiley cookies seem like a real good 
idea.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
eTrMC- EvgsS a0SUga ,IpSsI0i
Bellcore
()Bell Communications Research
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Staffwriter
Anyone who has lived in Pitts
burgh for more than a year has 
probably either seen or heard of 
Squonk Opera, one of the most 
innovative bands ever to pop out 
onto the scene.
What: Squonk Operas Night of 
the Living Dead 
Where: City Theater, 57 S. 13th 
Street, in the South Side 
When: Thursdays at 8 pm, Fri
days & Saturdays at 8 &
11 pm.
Cost: $10 Thursdays, $12 Fridays 
and Saturdays
The recipients of 1.1 
performance grants 
and fellowships, this 
quintet is notorious 
for their theatrical 
stage antics, which 
put GWAR to shame.
Their music stylings 
are nearly impos
sible to peg: theres a 
lot of jazz, theres a 
bunch of classical, 
but when they want 
to, they can just rock.
Its never main
stream though  no 
Top 40 station is go
ing to play them, 
thats for sure. *
However, even 
with their notoriety 
as a stage group, Ive 
never seen a fulllength production by 
this band. So, when presented 
with the opportunity to check out 
their Night of the Living Dead. 
production, I jumped at the 
chance, and, one night of theatre 
later, I was definitely not disap
pointed.
For those that dont know, 
Night of the Living Dead wa's a 
film made in the 60s by 
Pittsburghs own George Romero. 
The plot is as follows: brother and 
sister.are walking through a cem
etery, sister expresses fear of zom
bies, brother makes fun of her, 
points to a man staggering to
ward them, says hes a zombie, 
and proceeds to gethimselfkilled 
by the man, who really is a zom
bie. Sister drives to a house, ends 
up locked in there with a hunter, 
a family of four (one of which is 
fatally ill), and their collective 
wits against an army of zombies, 
who are standing outside, sub
dued by the fear of fire.
The zombies are a result of ra
diation from a defective U.S. space 
probe, which tells them to come 
back to life and eat people. I wont 
give away the ending, since some 
people actually havent seen the 
flick yet.
Rocky Horror Picture Show. 
There are three overlapping 
movie screens: a translucent 
sheet, an opaque moving screen, 
and another sheet behind it.
The opaque moving screen is 
segmented in areas, allowing for 
many surprises throughout the 
performance, such as the tri
angles which are knocked out in 
the second half to create the ef
fect of zombies arms reaching 
through a boarded-up door. 
Theres also a lot of really cool 
commentaries on the acting, such 
as the scene in which the men 
apd women of Squonk mirrored 
the exaggerated arm movements 
of Barbara and the hunter, with
out watching the screen. Romeros
Photo by T
The members of Squonk Opera freak as they realize that the phone is dead.
Anyhow, the real charm of this 
movie, much like The Rocky Hor
ror Picture Show, is that its just 
bad. Really bad. So bad, you fall 
to your kiiees laughing at it, dou
bling over and feeling a lot of 
pain.
The performance is done in a 
multimedia fashion. The movie 
is shown in a continuous man
ner, while the Squonkers add a 
musical theatre stage show, like 
a high-concept version of The
directing was victimized as well; 
bits like the white sphere which 
dropped from the top of the stage 
to add an extra dimension to the 
eyeball of the first corpse were 
priceless. They sent the audience 
(myself included) into uproari
ous laughter.
Of course, there were disad
vantages in the production; ev
ery so often, the Squonk bunch 
would get just a little oblique in 
their statements and songs (quoth
one of my colleagues during the 
intermission: Im not sure if Im 
being properly Squonked), and 
there were moments when you 
just werent sure what was going 
on.
However, if you rode these mo
ments out, they always justified 
themselves. A prime example: for 
about a minute or so, keyboardist 
Jackie Dempsey was shuffling 
back and forth on the stage, drop
ping a book, and screaming.
Two of the other members in 
the group started walking back 
and forth on the stage, pounding 
wooden planks on the stage, as 
the men on the screen were board
ing up the windows.
For a little while, everyone was 
lost, until the actions 
all fell into a rhyth
mic pattern which 
thrilled us all. I loved 
the scene, but its fea
sible that there was 
an audiences worth 
of What the ?s for 
a good little while.
Packed with up
roarious gimmicks, 
terrific dances, and 
stirring music, this 
production was 
clearly well thought 
out, and well pro
duced.
It was executed 
with amazing accu
racy and timing (the 
WHOMP sound 
jm Jefferson made by Squonk 
when the power went 
out on the screen was 
amazingly in sync, and the use of 
a moving watermelon as a per
cussive instrument while zom
bies were being knocked out in 
the first half was hilarious sim
ply because of its exquisite tim
ing), and the audience wenthome 
thoroughly entertained, if a bit 
confused. There are so many bits 
and pieces I want to write about, 
but I dont want to ruin the sur
prise. I will say that Id like to see 
it again with a bunch of friends.
September 21 (Career Day)
& October 17
Carnegie Melon University
You might also enjoy visting 
our career site on the Web - 
http:// www.careermosaic.com / 
cm/bellcore where you can find 
out more about us - and fill out an 
on line applieatiom-We are an equal 
opportunity Employer. '
Bellcore is a leading provider of 
communications software and 
Consulting services based on world 
class research. We develop the 
strategies that make information 
technology work for telecommuni
cations carriers, businesses and 
governments worldwide.
Our team is a particularly bright 
and gifted group. This is evident in 
the number of patents with our 
name attached - and the numerous 
international awards we've received 
for technical achievement
Needless to say our development 
resources are exceptional.
Were ideally positioned to play 
a key role in facilitating the 
creation of the global information 
inf rastructure - and we are preparing 
for that role by adding substantial 
brain power.
That means were extremely eager 
to talk to candidates with Bachelor's 
or Master's Degrees in Computer 
iSciertce, Computer Engineering, 
Electrical Engineering or Systems 
:|ngineering.'We prefer a CPA that 
confirms j^rsistancje. insight, drive, 
results orientation - and, of course, 
an ability to consistently come up 
with right answers.
So if you are determined to work 
with brilliant people who are 
capable of inventing a different 
future - make a smart move and 
arrange to see us when we visit 
your campus on:

---------------------------------------------------

Kris 
Wishing you success with the Get 
Him system.
 Shan
steak.
To all the girls who are only inter
ested in sex (Tartan 9/5).... WHERE 
ARE YOU?
 J
J 
Many people want to date you ... some 
of us are just too afraid to ask.
 P
Hey Benny,
Herz Und Mund Und Tat Und Leben!
 Master Yoda
... oogie, oogie, oogie ...
Simone.
How come youre not sitting on DA 
BENCH?
 Shan
Sunday in room 104  something 
out of the twilight zone, could any
thing else have gone wrong? i don't 
think so. at least there wasn't any 
hair in the pizza....
Chatham  two down, one to go.
Stacey  where are the hunting 
vests??? You know its a jungle out 
there!!
I hate it when people break an ImprovU!OXVoice of ite Popti1L
________ Films
The 1995 Student Film Festival: Take Two 
will be displayed in DH 2210 this Wednesday at 
8 pm.
Luna Park will take off in DH 2210 Thursday 
at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Kiss of Death will take some guys face off in 
DH 2210 Friday at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Sneakers will tiptoe through DH 2210 Satur
day at 5:30, 7:45,10 pm, and 12:15 am.
High School Confidential will discretely 
play in DH 2210 Sunday at 6, 8,10 pm, and 
midnight. Art
International Images (514 Beaver Ave., 
Sewickley) is pleased to announce a group 
exhibition entitled Lithuanian Masters. The 
public is invited to meet the artists for their 
opening reception on Friday from 6-8 pm. For 
more info, call 741-3036.
The Camegies Forum Gallery will host 
Echo,a dance performance by Dance Alloy, 
choreographed by Elizabeth Streb. Showtimes 
this week are: Thursday and Friday, 1-3:30 pm; 
Saturday and Sunday, 1-4 pm.Music
WQED joins the Pittsburgh Symphony in
kicking off the 1995-96 centennial season on 
Friday with a national live broadcast from the 
newly-renovated Heinz Hall. Please tune in to 
WQED FM 89.3 on Friday from 8-11 pm to 
enjoy the first concert of the season, which will 
be a selection of Beethovens works conducted 
by Lorin Maazel.
The University of Pittsburgh Department 
of Music begins its Music on the Edge series on 
Saturday, with Music by Donald Martino, 
played by pianist Eliza Garth, violinist Rolf 
Schulte, and clarinetist Jean Kopperud, all 
from New York. It will take place at the Frick 
Fine Arts Auditorium at 8 pm.
Borders Book Store (1775 N. Highland Rd.) 
presents the In Pittsburgh Newsweekly Friday 
Night Jazz Series. This week, at 7:30 pm,
Sonny Barbato will be performing. Also, this 
Saturday at 2 pm, Cyrus Chessnut will play, in 
anticipation of his show at the Balcony that 
night.. For more info, call 854-BOOK.
 Notices
Pittsburgh Magazine is looking for editorial 
interns. Duties would include: fact checking, 
research, writing, and proofreading. Send cover 
letters, resumes, and/or writing portfolios to: 
Georgia Bouzos, Pittsburgh Magazine, 4802 
Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh PA 15213, or call: 622- 
6424.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts invites 
regional artists to submit slide documentation 
of their artwork for consideration for the 1996 
Biennial. Selection of the artists will be made 
through slide presentation, studio visits and 
slide/video/audio presentation for kinetic and 
installation work. Deadline for submissions is 
November 20,1995. Please send a resume and a 
maximum of 16 slides or no more than 10 
minutes of video tape to: 1996 Biennial, Pitts
burgh Center for the Arts, Pittsburgh, PA 
15232.
There will be a reading from Live From 
Death Row in support of journalist Mumia 
Abu-Jamal, who is facing a sentence of death. It 
will be held at: Community of Reconciliation, 
100 N. Bellefield St. in Oakland, on Sunday, 
from 2-5 pm. This is a free event; all are 
welcome.
James Bridges
Nicholas Cage and David Caruso star in Kiss of Death, which is being shown in DH 2210 this Friday. Here they are getting angry at each other in a bathroon 
Perhaps if the quality of the toilet paper were slightly better, they'd be less angry. For a related story, see page 7.
If you are a sophomore, junior, or a senior
studying computer science, engineering, phys
ics, environmental and life sciences, mathemat
ics or physical science, and have a QPA above 
3.0, you may be eligible to participate in a 
Science and Engineering Research Semester 
sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy. 
For more information, call: (202) 488-2426; 
write: Science and Engineering Research 
Semester, PO Box 23575, Washington D.C. 
20026-3575; email: SERS@orau.gov; or look at 
the website: http://www.orau.gov/seed/sers/ 
sersgi.htm.
The Student Reading Series presents Day's 
Blood by Jimmy Santiago Baca, read by
Cameron Dezen and Austin Shifrin, Tuesday at 
Caf Mocha at 7 pm. Admission is free.
^Meetings
Filmmaking@CMU will have its first organi
zational meeting at 6 pm Wednesday in SC 
203. Email wpll or jedi for more information.__Call For Submissions
The University Calendar is a public service. 
Published each week, it features announce
ments of religious meetings, films, plays, 
musical events, sports events, extracurricular
meeting announcements, notices from non-proi 
organizations,' etc. Vox Populi is an open forum 
for the student body. If you have any submis
sions for Vox Populi or Calendar, drop them by 
The Tartan's office (Student Center 104), send 
them as email to pt2g@andrew.cmu.edu, or ma 
them to:
Calendar Editor 
The Tartan
Box 17, Garnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217 
All submissions must be recieved by the dead
line, which is the Friday prior to publication ai
5 pm. There is no cost for this service. Please to 
aware that nothing is guaranteed inclusion, du 
to space limitations.
