/olume 85, Issue 9Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania5-Students sanction Activities Fee raise
JASON McDONALD
tan Assistant Sports Editor
t'udent Senates referendum to 
se the activities fee from $40 to 
semester passed by a slim 
fete margin Tuesday. The fee 
rease, subject to approval by 
Board of Trustees, will take 
ect for the upcoming semesters 
tion bill.
Im very pleased, especially 
having worked with and sat on 
[the Funding and Recognition 
Committee], said Director of 
Student Activities Anne 
Witchner. We can give out monies 
based on what groups asked for in 
the past and allow for new orga
nizations as well. I think that the 
$10 a semester will definitely have 
a positive effect.
Im very relieved that it 
passed, said Student Senate 
Chair Chris Neighbor.
Last years referendum failed 
by a 26-vote margin, and many 
thought this years would meet 
with a similar fate.
Im surprised that it wasnt 
closer, said Neighbor. Theres 
still a lot of bad feeling about the 
increase from last year.
Im very relieved that it passed."
 Chris Neighbor; 
______________Student Senate chair
I was honestly alittle surprised need for the increase to them, but 
it passed from listening to people they just didnt see it from
I talked to, said IM senator Scott Senates point of view.
Zucker. I tried to explain the 312 students voted in favor of
the increase, and 286 voted 
against it. Neighbor felt that for 
a referendum with no other elec
tions going on, the turnout was 
pretty good, but not fantastic. 
Last year we had a larger 
turnout, around 900 people, said 
Zucker. Its always been the same 
way; only a few people are inter
ested in campus and Senate afPlease see FEE, page 5
jniversity 
solves 
D theft 
iilemma
DAVID LADEK
\rtan Assistant News Editor
to end may finally be in sight to the problems 
ised by the theft of ID-making equipment from 
irner Hall two weeks ago with the re-encoding 
all student, faculty, and staff IDs.
Anyone who has tried to use a Carnegie Mellon 
card around campus for the past 11 days has 
en scrutinized, examined, or asked to produce a 
:ond form of identification. Students wishing to 
tain entrance to residence halls, use the Validine 
item, or get materials from University libraries 
ve all felt the effects of the theft.
We hope to have the problem fixed soon; if not 
Thanksgiving, then certainly by the end of the 
nester, said Vice President for Planning and 
siness Affairs Pat Keating. The immediate 
nedies will buy back the integrity of our sysns, and allow us to get the campus back up and 
ictional.
According to Keating, several meetings were 
id immediately after the theft about how to deal 
th the problem. The decision was made to relidate and re-encode all the current student, 
ulty, and staff IDs. On the new encoding 
ichine, a new school code replaces the old, and 
all IDs produced on the old machine will be 
solete, said Keating. The new validation 
ckers that will be put on will be enough for 
sitive visual inspection.
The new validation stickers will be a type that 
Please see ID, page 4
Guy Paquette/Tartan Photographer
jnni nverstvy on jlDh fvmtlvaGShhnDaItin jnlonD lAnD on Dncnv crImu 2tciaST ylhnG rA ArrlII rv 
lSGnm s hrSvtvy TDnGGSDnG rA orhnjrDi lvm nClhGu
glDvnytn MnIIrt 
on gS lDn nCc
ampus 
instruction 
continues
MATT ADLER
Han Staff writer
arnegie Mellons Physical Plant is 
'l'ently engaged in many campus reistruction projects, including the 
istruction outside Morewood Gardens 
d the renovations to the Hamerschlag 
11 steps.
Reconstruction of the Hamerschlag 
*Ps was not initially expected to be as 
Jge an undertaking as it became, 
'iginally, the steps were only expected 
Require waterproofing because of waPlease see CONSTRUCTION, page 5
\f.4%<-.f
%
'O -r
i
it 9pf -
GSIA Game trial 
causes tumult
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor 
5nvrlv DtciIlsnD 2nnD MlDytrl IlrDG lGGtmSrSGIs rv on GnTG rA NlhnDGcoIlyu
By MICHAEL J. EWEDOSH
Tartan Asst. Business Manager
Controversy surrounding Thursdays 
trial in GSIAs management game course 
centered on trial issues which would 
affect the academic standing of the stu
dents involved.
The management game course, re
quired for all GSIA masters students, is 
designed to provide students with expe
rience in a setting that simulates real 
life. Students are divided into teams 
that act as the management for firms 
competing in the detergent industry.
A firm competes against firms within
its own nation; the 39 game firms, eaclt 
with 5-7 students, are divided into 13 
nations. Students gain experience 
through game decision-making. Decisions 
range from labor negotiations with real 
union representatives to finance, mar
keting, and production decisions used as 
input for a computer market simulation.
Thursdays trial was based on a grand 
jury indictment of a firm in Nation 2. 
Firm 3 and Philip Elbaz, its president' 
were charged with attempted joint and 
collusive monopolization.
At the root of the controversy were 
conversations that Elbaz initiated witti.
Please see GAME, page 3
^assifieds. 
Comics......
versions.
Matures...................
Porum.....................
Sports ............
Jniversity Calendar . 
vx Populi.................
 Student declares himself an 
independent country.
See page 8.
The football teams win 
streak extends to nine with a 
24-13 win over the Coast 
Guard.
See page 11.
Students participate in 
censorship debate.
See page L3.
 Carnegie Mellon students 
duke it out with paintguns 
and guerilla tactics at the 
nearby Urban Assault 
paintball arena.
See page LI 1.
T. Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer
bol clhn nArDn 1liIlvm9G 
1DtytvlI Nr 0ry plvmd UlDlv 
pnvtrD plAAjDtnD 0lv NrIIlvm 
nCTIrDnG 1liIlvm9G TlG. 
tvcISmtvy on 347. on BtvywG 
grSD onlDn. lvm 2twG 
tcoAtnIm UrjnDGu pnn Tlyn Pu
County donates Hornbostel 
architectural drawings
By RICH KWIATKOWSKI
Tartan Staffwriter
Allegheny County has donated 
about fifty drawings and blue
prints of Henry Hombostel to the 
Carnegie Mellon Architecture 
Department.
Hombostel came to Pittsburgh 
to supervise the construction of 
the CMU campus in 1904, when 
his design firm of Palmer and 
Hombostel won a competition to 
design a master plan for the cam
pus.
The Hombostel designs are part of a 
growing body of archives which will 
help students, architects, preserva
tionists, and researchers.
 Martin Aurand, 
archives director
Hornbostel remained in Pitts- on to become Director of Parks, 
burgh, where he established the Hombostel was also the architect 
School of Architecture and went Please see DRAWINGS, page 4

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990
UNfp Y-pU fq I
Bush risks Congresss ire on gulf war
 WASHINGTON (AP)  If President Bush 
starts a war to drive Iraq out of Kuwait in the 
next two months, he could risk battling both 
Saddam Hussein and Congress.
Congress adjourned for the year without 
receiving any assurance the administration 
will request a declaration of war, or other
wise seek lawmakers consent, before order
ing military action.
^Consequently, congressional leaders set a 
special procedure for reconvening Congress 
in-an emergency and established a special 
group of 18 senior lawmakers they say should 
be consulted while Congress is out. 
^Administration aides say they dont want 
to recognize that group because that would 
Agadto a process of deciding national security 
|seues by committee.
'^Administration aides say Bush and his 
prides plan informal consultations with se
lected lawmakers. Bush discussed the issue 
with congressional leaders yesterday, but 
lawmakers said no understanding was 
reached.
There is obviously a difference of opinion 
in terms of whether that power to start 
hostilities rests with the executive branch 
or the congressional branch, said Sen. Wil
liam Cohen (R-Maine).
The result is uncertainty about how the 
tgyo branches of government will cooperate if 
jjje U.S. began a war. That uncertainty gives 
the administration a freer hand now, but it 
also raises the risk of opposition from Con
gress if the administration began hostilities.
Its universally agreed that U.S. forces can 
defend themselves and neednt wait for con
sultations with Congress if theyre attacked, 
fhe question is what role Congress should 
play if Bush wants to order an attack on Iraqi 
forces in response to a lesser provocation or to 
enforce United Nations resolutions ordering 
Iraq to get out of Kuwait.
I know of no understandings that have 
been reached about the role Congress will 
play, says Sen. Richard Lugar of Indiana, a
There is obviously a difference of opinion in terms 
of whether that power [to start hostilities] rests 
with the executive branch or the congressional 
branch. 
 Senator William Cohen (R.-Maine)
leading Republican voice in Congress on for
eign policy. My impression is very clearly 
that the administration does not want a fullscale debate on the declaration of war prior to 
anything occurring.
But Congress has signaled it doesnt in
tend to be forgotten. Only the Congress can 
declare war, says Senate Majority Leader 
George Mitchell (D-Maine). The president 
has no legal authority to commit us to war. 
It was Mitchell who arranged the adjourn
ment resolution allowing Senate and House 
leaders to bring lawmakers back to town.
Administration officials assert that law
makers are less interested in deciding 
whether to go to war than their public state
ments imply. In part, lawmakers are trying 
to protect their institutional rights, officials 
say. Whatever the case, past U.S. military 
actions suggest the president has wide leeway 
to act without congressional approval.
The Constitution makes Congress the body 
that decides whether U.S. armed forces enter 
a fight. It states that the Congress shall 
have power... to declare war. The president 
isnt granted explicit war-making power.
The Constitution also makes the president 
commander-in-chief of the Army and Navy. 
Recent presidents have used that position to 
push the U.S. into hostilities without a con
gressional declaration of war. The Vietnam 
War was fought without such a declaration. 
Last year, Bush ordered the invasion of 
Panama while Congress was in recess.
Legal details may be less important for
President Bush than a desire to avoid offend
ing the lawmakers whose support he would 
need in any hostilities. Thus he could face a 
decision: whether to consult Congress before 
going to war or to bring lawmakers in after 
making the fact.
In the meantime, a fourth U.S. aircraft 
carrier battle group has arrived in the Middle 
East, the Pentagon said.
The carrier Midway with its six accompany
ing ships, is now stationed in the North Ara
bian Sea, said spokesman Bob Hall.
He declined to say if it is a possible replace
ment for the carrier Independence, although 
reports from San Diego say the Independence 
is due home by Christmas.
Meanwhile, Hall also reported the Iraqis 
have increased artillery deployment in the 
Kuwait-Saudi border area. At the same time, 
he said, armored personnel carrier strength 
has declined by 300 from the reported 2,500.
Hall had no theory as to the new figures, but 
he said that the Iraqi forces still appeared to 
be in defensive positions.
He also reported that Defense Secretary 
Dick Cheney had relented in his determina
tion to recommend a veto of the Military 
Construction Appropriations bill.
Earlier, Cheney reportedly planned to rec
ommend a veto to President Bush because 
there was no funding for a new airbase in 
Crotone, Italy for a fighter-wing being forced 
out of Spain. But, Hall said, the bill now 
merely calls for a rvaluation of the need for 
the base, rather than a complete rejection.
Bush may wait to sign 
budget until election eve
WASHINGTON (DJ)Fresh 
in the minds of voters going into 
their election booths next Tues
day is likely to be the image of 
President Bush signing the 
budget bill that raises U.S. taxes 
by some $137 billion over five 
years.
Thats because the president 
is likely to wait until election 
eve on Monday before signing 
the budget into law, according 
to a White House staffer. The 
massive document, rumored to 
be 1,500 pages, was received at 
the White House on Wednesday 
after relatively speedy work by 
congressional staffers who put 
together the final formal text
only after lawmakers adjourned 
last Saturday.
Technically, Bush could wait 
until November 12 to sign tfie 
legislation that has tarnished 
the presidents popularity and 
the integrity of the adminis
tration while deeply dividing1 
the Republican party. But, utifortunately for Bush, he miiS'ti 
initial the legislation by midnight Monday in order to avoid 
a default by government since: 
the current debt limit expires 
at that time along with a shortterm continuing resolution* 
which funded the governinejlj; 
since Congress adjourned l$a 
weekend.
War in Guif could lead to 
explosive price inflation
WASHINGTON (AP)  The 
price of oil could easily explode 
to $100 a barrel if war breaks out 
in the Persian Gulf, a panel of 
experts told a Senate committee.
Theres no limit, said John 
Lichtblau, chairman of the Petro
leum Industry Research Founda
tion. It depends on how much 
panic there is.
The day war starts prices will 
explode, said Lichtblau, one of 
several oil industry experts to ap
pear before a Senate Governmen
tal Affairs Committee hearing.
Senator Joseph Lieberman (DConn) presiding over the hearing, 
echoed growing concern in Con
gress about what will happen at 
the pump if war breaks out.
Oil prices hovering in the $3! 
a-barrel range could easily tripl 
said Professor Fariborz G] 
of George Washingto; 
Universitys business school*.
I would not be surprised-^o 
prices reached $100 a barrel, 
Ghadar said. -m
Under one industry formula, 
price of $100 a barrel would nrea 
gasoline would cost nearly .'$3' 
gallon.
nTrDG crSDnGs 
Dow Jones, Inc.
Layout by 
Chip Dawes and 
Terry Budd
Ug lciG 
GSmnv IrlvG
WASHINGTON (DJ)  Student 
..loans held by the savings-and-loan 
.'bailout agency will continue to he 
federally guaranteed even though 
they technically lost their eligibility 
for such insurance.
The Resolution Trust Corporation 
and the Education Department 
agreed that the department will 
provide buyers of the loans with 
"reinsurance guarantees. The guar"antees will apply to the studentloans 
held by insolvent S&Ls under con
trol of the bailout agency. Some loans 
became ineligible forgovemmentinsurance because of mismanagement 
by the thrifts or other disruptions.
The Education Department said 
that the cost of providing reinsurance 
for the loans would be significantly 
less than losses suffered by the 
bailout agency if it couldnt sell the 
loans or had to offer them at a steep 
discount. The RTC currently holds 
about $500 million of the student 
loans.
Polls show that Republicans are winning the 
battle for the minds of todays younger voters
KINGSTON, R.I. (AP) Polls consis
tently have shown that young voters 
between 18 and 24 are markedly more 
Republican than the rest of the country.
There is a uniqueness in the 20-yearolds of today that had been attributed to 
the baby boomers, says Warren Miller, 
an Arizona State University political sci
entist who is culling through mounds of 
voting data. Its not the baby boomers 
that are different, its the next genera
tion.
One example is the race for the Rhode 
Island open congressional seats. The 
Democrat, a state senator named John 
Reed, is a 40-year-old West Point and 
Harvard Law graduate who is stressing 
economic issues in his campaign. Young 
people are looking for opportunities and 
jobs, he says. These were Democratic 
issues that we lost. We have to get them 
back.
The Republican, Trudy Coxe, has a 
campaign manager who is 23, a scheduler 
who is 21, an office manager who is 22, a
volunteer director who is 21 and a 
fundraiser who is 23. Her appeal to 
younger voters reflects what she has 
learned from her young staff.
I cant believe how different I am at 41 
from the people at 21 I deal with in my 
campaign, says Coxe, former executive 
director of Save the Bay, a non-profit 
activist group. Theyre much more 
worried about how money is spent. 
Theyre cautious and careful.
As a result, Coxe is emphasizing a 
message of traditional Republican thrift 
above her own environmentalist back
ground. Weve got to promote this idea 
of fiscal responsibility, she says. We 
have to be practical. Thats what appeals 
to them.
Her campaign manager, Steven 
Winoker, thinks that young people do 
want change; its just that to them, that 
means working for Republicans. George 
Bush and Ronald Reagan still represent 
change, he says. We dont have a Re
publican legacy of strong failure, only a
legacy of strength.
This encomium masks some dangers 
for Republicans, however. They worry 
that the Bush administration, with its 
waffles on tax issues andits negotiations 
with Democratic leaders, has endangered 
its natural advantage with these voters.
Even young activists like Winoker ac
knowledge that their affinity with the 
GOP could be only temporary. Its abso
lutely not inconceivable at all, the Re
publican campaign manager says, that 
he could work for a Democrat someday.
As a result, these younger voters  
living with the Republicans but not 
married to them  have emerged as a 
critical swing bloc in American politics. 
The challenge for the Republican Party 
is to seal their allegiance. The challenge 
for the Democrats is to woo them away.
But this battle is being conducted in an 
atmosphere of astonishing political in
difference  and ignorance.
The other day, a reporter joined four 
students in a discussion circle. Not one
could identify his member of Congress 
One said that Jesse Jackson had beei 
Michael Dukakis running mate in 1088 
Another argued that George Bush ha 
run as Governor Dukakiss vice pres 
dential candidate.
Younger people stay away from jhi 
polls in droves. The National Electioi 
Survey shows that 58 percent of regis 
tered voters under 24 didnt vote in tti 
1988 election, nearly twice the rate 
non-voting in the general public.
But once these young people do become 
voters, will they retain their Republicai 
leanings?
That question has spawned a lively 
debate among political professic 
These people are extraordinarily 
engaged politically, so their identification 
has very little depth, says Geoffrey 
Garin, a Democratic pollster. They are 
essentially pre-political and their atti
tudes are not very strongly formed. They 
are Republicans, yes, but they could very 
easily move.
Cuban spy attempts to defect to U.S.
; NEW YORK (DJ)  Juan Manuel 
Rodriguez Camejo is the spy who came in 
from the tropics. And got thrown right out 
again.
;! Washington, which normally welcomes 
buban defectors with open arms, wants 
nothing to do with Rodriguez Camejo, a 
puban counterintelligence officer who has 
fried to defect to the U.S. twice in the past 
fcwo weeks. The problem, it seems, is that 
.Rodriguez Camejo, who says he holds the 
rank of major and has 21 years of experi
ence as a Cuban spy, was just too good at 
his job: thwartingthe Central Intelligence 
Agencys espionage efforts in Cuba.
For years, says Rodriguez Camejo, he 
was a double agent who penetrated deep 
y/ithin the CIAs Cuban networks. The 
p.S., it appears, fears that Rodriguez 
Camejo may still be up to his old tricks.
I Ive surrendered my weapon to those 
who were my enemies for many years, 
insists Rodriguez Camejo, sounding des
perate in a telephone interview from a 
Mexican hiding place late last week. Im
flying a white flag.
White flag or no, FBI and other intelli
gence agents last week interrogated 
Rodriguez Camejo for hours in California, 
and, he says, promised him asylum. But 
after more interrogation, the agents 
changed their tune. Instead of getting a 
new identity in the U.S., Rodriguez Camejo 
was handed over to Immigration and 
Naturalization Service agents. The INS 
men notified him he was a danger to U.S. 
security and told him, his wife and their 
daughter to take a hike  back to Mexico.
Terrified that Havana, which has warm 
relations with Mexico, would send Cuban 
agents to kidnap or assassinate him, 
Rodriguez Camejo tried again on Monday 
night to defect. With his wife and daugh
ter, he again crossed the border but was 
caught by INS agents in San Ysidro, Cali
fornia, where he is now in detention.
Rodriguez Camejo says his unfriendly 
reception is all CIA sour grapes. After the 
CIA recruited him in 1979, he says, he was 
one of the officers who helped run a Cuban
counterintelligence operation that placed 
27 double agents in the CIAs network of 
Cuban agents.
By the time the Cuban connection was 
exposed in Havana in 1987, 90 percent of 
the CIAs Cuban networks turned out to be 
double agents working for the Cuban in
telligence service known as the DGI. The 
U.S. was embarrassed by the disclosure, 
made after a Cuban agent defected in 
Czechoslovakia. As well, the Cuban pen
etration showed that the double agents 
had devised a way to beat U.S. lie-detector 
machines.
Now Rodriguez Camejo says the CIA 
has it in for him because of his role in that 
episode.
Not quite, says a high-ranking U.S. 
government official. There isnt much 
sympathy for defecting agents who have 
betrayed the U.S. But, he adds, the gov
ernment has denied Rodriguez Camejo 
political asylum because it doesnt trust 
him. It believes he may still be a double 
agent.
Another U.S. official cautions that 
Rodriguez Camejos claims about his 
record, his background as well as his mo
tives are suspect.
But a former U.S. intelligence officer 
says the fact that Rodriguez Camejo 
brought his family with him at a time 
when Cuba is falling apart, makes hjs 
seem a bona fide defection. The former 
officer says the U.S. is being immensely 
stupid in its treatment of Rodriguez 
Camejo. I would think it would be worth 
the risk to the U.S. government to really 
find out what he has to say.
Rodriguez Camejo says he was just do
ing his job when he infiltrated the CIA. I 
was an officer in counterintelligence, de
fending my countrys sovereignty, fight
ing the CIA within Cuba, he says. But 
now he has called it quits, convinced by the 
collapse of communism in Eastern Europe 
that the ideology he defended for many 
years is bankrupt. He also says the Cuban 
intelligence service is after him for his 
involvement in an anti-Castro conspiracy.
Drug agency 
linked to 
fatal flight
WASHINGTON (DJ) - 
The FBI will review the alle
gations of a connection between the Drug Enforcement 
Agency and the bombing of 
Pan Am Flight H4K that were 
broadcast November 30 by 
NBC News and ABC News.
The claim made is that an 
American, Khalid Jaafar. 
who died on board was a DEA 
informant who GhSyyInm the 
bomb onto the plane believ
ing it was a case of heroinThough not widely re 
ported, the claim has circu
lated since the bombing but 
has never been proved by in
vestigators.
The new investigation will 
review files to determine I 
Jaafar had ties to the DEA---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 19903
GSIA Management Game trial causes tumult
/olum frm Pa^e 1
the presidents of the two other firms in 
Ration 2. Elbaz said the purpose of the 
iialogue was to establish a trade asso
ciation within Nation 2. Member nations 
would share market research data  for 
which firms must pay in the game  via 
^e^ssociation. Firms would receive 
hree times as much market research 
lata without incre asing their costs. Elbaz 
aid the association would be modeled 
ifter associations that actually exist and 
voyld not violate any anti-trust laws, 
mSTwould only have been formed with 
he approval of all firms and the course 
nstructor, Valerie Wiedman.
Presidents of the other two firms disigree on the nature of Elbaz offer. We 
jelieyed that collusion was, in fact, taking 
>lace in our nation, stated Jennifer 
Kaj]es, president of Firm 2, in a memo 
iddr.essed to the GSIA community. 
Michael Fraley, president of Firm 1, 
Istified that when he was approached, 
|fc proposed the formation of a leritimate trade association that would 
lave the approval of the course instructor. 
The outcome of the Thursday night
 held in Porter Hall 100 with
attorneys acting as legal counsel and 
judge, and undergraduate students act
ing as jury  was inconclusive because 
the jury was unable to attain the 
unanimous vote required to either acquit 
or convict the defendants. GSIA Associ
ate Dean Ilker Baybars told The Tartan 
late Friday that the case will not be 
prosecuted any further.
Students involved, however, dont nec
essarily agree that this case is closed. 
From what [Prosecutor Thomas] Kerr 
said to me, said Elbaz, I got the im
pression that at least one faculty mem
ber wanted me out of school.
Confusion centered on whether or not 
the charges in the trial were also the 
subject of a GSIA disciplinary probe.
There was never any discussion of 
academic action, said Wiedman, the 
instructor for the course. There has been 
no investigation.
Though Kerr, the prosecutor, told The 
Tartan that such action would not be 
my affair at all, several students in
volved in the case seemed to think that 
Kerr was involved in such an probe.
Balles, the Firm 2 president who first 
went to Wiedman and later to Kerr with
Theyve got what they wanted.
 Lee Turrini,
____ Firm 3 vice president
concerns that collusion may have been 
taking place in the game, explained her 
goals to the GSIA community in a memo. 
I felt it was my responsibility to protect 
my team from unfair competition, the 
memo stated. I hoped that the results of 
these conversations would be a serious 
dialogue... in which any ideas of collusion, 
if indeed present, would be dropped.
I must tell you that I am disturbed 
considerably by your proposed solutions 
to the suspected collusion in our nation, 
stated a letter Balles team sent to Kerr 
after their meeting with him.
[We] will not cooperate with the Gov
ernment in this case for the purpose of 
punishing students outside the context 
of the Game, it stated. By this we mean: 
(1) Expulsion (2) Receiving a D in the 
Management Game course.
Elbaz said that when he was informed 
of the Game investigation, Kerr sug
gested that he reread the student hand
book section on cheating and plagia
rism.
But GSIA officials stand by their as
sertion that there was no disciplinary 
probe involved.
There has never been any academic 
or disciplinary action, said Baybars. 
There has been no investigation from 
my office and no such investigation will 
be undertaken.
Elbaz and other members of his team 
felt that the matter was handled poorly. 
A more thorough investigation wouldnt 
have let this come to trial, said Scott 
Detillo, Firm 3s vice president for fi
nance. It was obvious from the trial 
that neither [Kerr nor Wiedman] had 
done their homework.
There was a level of professionalism 
that we expected to see but did not see, 
said Elbaz. The level of professionalism
associated with this game is out of line.. 
with what weve come to expect in GSIA. 
Team members are concerned about 
the publicity that they say GSIA intend 
tionally directed to the trial and the* 
issues surrounding it. Both Elbaz arid^; 
Detillo said that they want the GSIA; 
administration to write a letter to thg; 
GSIA community stating that they" 
dropped the charges and explaining theij. 
reasons. They also said that they hopeC 
such a letter would receive equal distri
bution as the pre-trial publicity.
Lee Turrini, vice president for Finance 
of Firm 3, doesnt think that the firmis-' 
record will ever be cleared in this issue 
since there will not be another trial.11 
The only way theyd really get it out that 
were innocent, he said, is to retry thei 
case. \J
Both Turrini and Elbaz agreed tha& 
the administration didnt want to retry'* 
the case because, as they see it, the 
administration achieved its goal.
If they wanted to prove that ethics ar-er 
important and that cheating is not to be; 
tolerated, said Elbaz, theyve done iti - 
Theyve got what they wanted, said 
Turrini. s 
Special Events recruits 
Student Ambassadors
-The University Special Events Office is recruiting 10-15 
tqdents for the Student Ambassador Program.
Student ambassadors are the official hosts/hostesses of the 
Jiiiversity. Among other duties, ambassadors greet visiting 
juests, host receptions and dinners, and give tours to University 
juests.
Each year 60 - 80 students apply to the program. Applicaions must be turned in in person in order to schedule a twenty 
nmute interview. The deadline for the initial application is 
anuary 21.
JCLisa Lane, the associate director of Special Events, said, 
there is a very strong selection process. Candidates are evalu- . 
ted, and based upon the recommendation of the first interiewer, the candidate is given a second interview. The second 
nterview is conducted by Lisa Lane or Maryann Moore, the 
irector of Special Events. Those students accepted into the 
rogram will be notified by February 4.
Once students become ambassadors they may maintain their 
osition until they graduate.
An information session for prospective ambassadors will be 
eld at 6 pm on November 12 in the Skibo Faculty Lounge. For 
lore information, contact Lisa Lane at x5052.
DoE sponsors scholarships
The U.S. Department of Energy is sponsoring twenty-five 
cholarships for undergraduate students majoring in engineering 
nd science disciplines. The scholarships will be administered by 
)ak Ridge Associated Universities , and are designed for students 
iferested in pursuing careers in environmental restoration or 
raste management.
^ Applicants must be U.S. citizens and currently pursuing an 
ssociate or Bachelor of Science degree full time. The Environaental Restoration/Waste Management Scholarship Program 
np|udes full payment of tuition and fees at a DoE-approved 
institution, a $600 per month stipend, and a three month 
racticum assignment at a DoE facility engaged in environmen
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
tal restoration and waste management.
Selection is based upon academic performance, recommenda
tions, background, and a statement of career goals by the appli
cant. The competition is nationwide. The four-year and two-year 
institutions will compete in separate categories.
Applications are being taken through January 28 and awards 
will be announced in May. For more information, contact Peggy 
Gibson, Environmental Restoration/Waste Management Scholar
ship Program, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Science/ 
Engineering Education Division, P.O. Box 117, Oak Ridge, TN 
37831-0117, or call (615) 576-9278.
Pulitzer Prize winner Smith 
speaks at The Carnegie
Hedrick L. Smith will be the featured speaker at The 
Carnegies annual Man and Ideas lecture, Thursday, November 
29. Smith is a Pulitzer Prize-winning New York Times foreign 
correspondent, author of several world-wide best sellers and 
creator of the television documentary series Inside Gorbachevs 
USSR.
Hedrick Smith has been a New York Times correspondent 
for 26 years. He won the Pulitzer Prize for international report
ing for" his coverage of Moscow and Eastern Europe in the 1970s.
He is one of a small group of journalists whose range of 
experience enables him to cover Congress, the White House, 
national elections, and international affairs, according to a 
Carnegie press release.
The Carnegies Man and Ideas series was designed to bring 
local residents a better understanding of the forces that shape 
our civilization. Past speakers include Henry Kissinger, Isaac 
Asimov, Alvin Toffler, August Wilson, Barbara Tuchman, and 
Robert Hughes.
The lecture is sponsored by Allegheny Ludlum Corporation 
and has been arranged by the Womens Committee of The 
Carnegie Museum of Art.
Tickets for the Man and Ideas lecture are $5 for members of 
the Carnegie and $7 for non-members. Tickets are available at 
the TIX booth downtown or at The Carnegie. For information 
regarding ticket orders by mail, call The Carnegie at 622-3313.
Carnegie Mellon considers 
Polish candidates for ECE 1
The Electrical and Computer Engineering Department has 
signed an agreement with the Electronics Department of the 
Technical University of Warsaw to consider top Polish students1" 
applications for the ECE Ph.D program.
Stephen Director, head of ECE, said, We will evaluate them 
by the same standards we use to evaluate other candidates. The 
only difference is the application fee, which will be waived for the 
Polish applicants.
The Technical University of Warsaw will choose their best *" 
students and send those students applications to Carnegie * *
Mellon. The students are expected to return to Poland when they 
complete their education.
According to Director, this will formalize what has been an 3 
informal relationship we have had for a long time. Some current 
members of the ECE faculty have taught at the Technical Uni:';; 
versity of Warsaw or graduated from there. Visiting professors * 1 
from Warsaw are also working here.
Carnegie Mellon is accepting applications until January 15- "
Memorial honors Ross
A memorial service for Terence Ross took place on October 
31. President Mehrabian; Father Robert L. English and Sister J 
Bernadette Young of the Roman Catholic Oratory; the Rev. I 
Martha Orphe, Pastor, The Community of Reconciliation; Rabbi I 
Joseph Levine, Director, Bnai Brith Hillel/Jewish University 1 
Center; John OKeefe, President, and Donald Schieferecke, >
Chaplain, Sigma Nu fraternity all participated in the service. ;
Compiled by MATT ADLER;
Correction...
In CMU helps speed electronic communications (Karnege,1 
10/29, page 10), the Informational Network Institute should be 
the Information Networking Institute, and the contact person 
is Thomas Ho, 4616 Henry Street, room 200. -
Fun FlicksIn All
VideosSeriousness...
Make your own videosThey'll make you laugh
Completely free!!'til it hurts!!
Wednesday, Nov. 7Saturday, Nov. 17
12:30-6:30 pm8:00 pm
Tartan LoungeWherett Room
Sponsored by AB Special Events

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990
-vt'nDGts TIlvG r Dna'lItmln f0 clDmG
f0. ADrh Tlyn H
cannot be unpeeled or moved once 
theyre in place.
The re-encoding process will not 
be" mandatory, but anyone who 
wants to take advantage of cam
pus'1 services will have to go 
throiigh it. Campus services that 
would be affected include 
V&idine, all card readers, cashing 
checks at the Cashiers office, and 
borrowing materials from the li
brary and clusters.
One of our real worries was 
soili eone gettinginto the residence 
halls and committing an assault 
or theft, Keating said. That 
problem took precedence over 
others.
The chances of the thieves find
ing and using a Validine account 
is small, according to Keating. 
About2,000 of our 7,000 students 
use Validine. So theres a 2 in 7 
chance of someone randomly en
tering a students Validine ac
count and using it. Neverthe
less, said Keating, the University 
would like to eliminate that 
chance, as well.
In terms of other IDs, theres 
not much you can do with a staff 
ID, Keating said. Usingthe gym, 
the library, and the computer, 
store are about it. We dont think 
that will be a problem.
On th e possibility of the thieves 
gaining entrance to sensitive ar
eas, Keating indicated that ev
eryone had been notified imme
diately and that precautionary 
measures are being taken.
The decision to forgo issuing all 
new IDs was an easy one, said 
Keating. It doesnt buy us any 
more security than what were 
going to do. Right now, the idea is 
to reinstall the integrity in the 
system.
However, according to Keating, 
the lessons of the theft may lead 
to changes in the ID cards in the 
future, though. A committee has 
been looking at new ID card 
possibilties. Changes may include 
serial numbers on the cards 
themselves and pictures taken
It was a knowledgeable theft.... They 
took it all. 
 Pat Keating, 
vice president for Business Affairs
that can be scanned into a com
puter, among other options.
That would happen next fall at 
the earliest, he said.
The theft, which has inconve
nienced almost every member of 
the Carnegie Mellon campus 
community, occurred Wednesday 
night, October 24. There was not 
a forced entry, said Keating. Ei
ther the thieves had a key, or a 
door had been inadvertently left 
unlocked. However, he indicated 
that the latter possibility was less 
likely.
There are only two keys to [the 
ID] room, said Keating. They 
are now in a safe in the cashiers 
office. There are several master 
keys, as well.
He said that the master key$ 
were held by several of the unj. 
versity vice presidents, custodial 
staff, and a few others.
It was a knowledgeable theft,", 
said Keating. They took it ali.' 
The thieves escaped with blank 
forms, the photo equipment, a die 
cutter, the laminator, and tj^ 
encoder.
We think that the machines 
are probably being used to make 
fake drivers licenses right now, 
said Keating. Theres not too 
much you can do with a college 
student ID.
A decision has not yet been made i 
as to where ID re-encoding \yjji 
take place.
Student Senate Minutes
Minutes of October 30, 1990 
Meeting called to order at 7:07. 
feenators Present: Austin, Barnes, 
Bfeke, Bucholtz, Crehan, Dautermann, 
Dean, Gelman, Golembiewski (late), 
Hjiang, Kadesh, Kaufman, Loomis, 
Mpran, Neighbor, Rubinstein, 
Stjhaeffer (late), Shin, Spivack, Venable, 
Wyatt (late), Zucker.
Senators Absent: Lewis, Meek. 
Ex-Officios Present: Ginsburg, Rao, 
Dean Murphy, Dean Witchner. 
Corrections of last weeks minutes: 
Hyun Shin was forgotten on the roll 
cacll. Warranties was spelled wrong.
Ginsburg wanted to thank Student 
Affairs, not Student Activities.
Clarification of how honor fraternities 
should be recognized: in the past theyve 
come to Student Senate, and will continue 
to do so.
^Special Business:
Filling of the empty seats on 
Seriate. Each of the candidates were 
hard from. Only one candidate for the 
CFA seat: Roy Huang. He was accepted 
by acclamation. There were three candi
dates for the one H&SS seat: Rhodie 
Chambliss, Colin Crehan, and Helen 
McRae. There was only one position open 
and it was a fall seat. This means that 
the candidate must run again in No
vember. The others not voted into the 
seat may become members-at-large. They 
may do everything a senator may except 
vote. Colin Crehan was voted into the 
position, and the two remaining candi
dates requested to become members-atlarge.
Activities Board  Chris Smith:
Censorship Debate going on at the same 
time that the Senate meeting was being 
held. Tickets to Turtle Island String 
Quartet are on sale. AB is going to a 
convention'the weekend of November 1. 
All events are going well so far.
Greek Council  Otis Ginsburg: 
Sunday Greek Council Philanthropy had 
an event which raised $1300.
Student Affairs  Dean Murphy: 
It has been a difficult week; thanks to all 
students through Student Senate about 
spirit and support through the tragedy.
President  Kishore Rao: VPSAC
met today. The group will meet next 
week with Bill Elliott. They are looking 
into the club sports issue and how to 
alleviate the funding. The probable start 
date for the University Center is summer 
1992. The architect is still working on 
the plans for the Performing Arts Cen
ter, the location of which should be set by 
January 1. In the University Center, 
student offices will be allocated. Some 
adjacencies need to be addressed. No 
commitments are being made to the or
ganizations , but certain adj acencies must 
be predetermined.
Student Senate Chair  Chris 
Neighbor: Senate sent flowers to Sigma 
Nu. The referendum passed. Skibo Space 
Allocation Committee met. The office 
across from the Senate office goes to 
Greek Council. Gaming, Chess, and Go 
Clubs are using the other Tartan Office. 
The other space requests were given (14 
in total).
Academic Affairs  Mike Austin:
Trying to wrap up the issues currently 
being dealt with.
Campus Affairs  Bill Lewis: The
survey is being wrapped up. A letter is in 
preparation for Peter Collopy. Bill will 
try to make the next meeting.
Funding and Recognition  
Sateria Venable: There will be a bud
get hearing on November 10, 10-3 in 
Skibo 201.
Public Relations  Mark 
Schaeffer: Public Relations postered 
yesterday. They got the referendum 
passed. Happy Hour tentatively set for 
the 15th of November. There is a lecture 
on that date, it was suggested that PR 
try not to conflict with it. According to 
one senator, the advertising was not re
ally seen. Suggestions were made as to 
how to make the Happy Hour better.
RulesDoug Rubinstein: Copies of 
Roberts Rules were given to the Chair 
and the Rules Committee.
Constitution:
Vote to go into discussion: 15-52
There were questions about the 
amendments especially the addition of 
recognizing Greek Organizations. Some 
felt that the Greeks were selective, not 
discriminatory. Some felt it was the other
way around. It was pointed out that j 
Greek Council is on the same level as Ag 
& SDC. It was also pointed out that each 
house has the right to discriminate.
Vote to accept the ammendments:j 
passed: 1432
New Business:
Request for a Fall Advance: Dancers i 
Symposium requests $235 for its upcom
ing show.
Accepted by acclamation.
The survey was discussed. Hyun had I 
two versions to present to Senate. It was 1 
discussed as to how to send out. Some 1 
changes were discussed.
General Discussion:
A request was made to have the tem- - 
perature set at a reasonable degree for  
future meetings.
Congratulations goes out to PR for,a; 
good job.
Kishore is glad people are actually 
doing things.
Recycle paper! Terrel will take extra \ 
paper.
Meeting Adjourned at 8:55.
Submitted by Amy Blake
County donates Hornbostel 
architectural drawings to CMU
0kbfq5p. ADrh Tlyn H
ofSoldiers and Sailors Memorial 
Hall, the Pittsburgh City-County 
bililding, Rodef Shalom Temple, 
a&d many other buildings on the 
Carnegie Mellon campus.
.County Controller Frank 
Liicchino presented the drawings 
to John Eberhard, head of the 
OMU Architecture department. 
Martin Aurand, CMU Archives 
director, said, The Hornbostel 
designs are part of a growingbody 
of.archives which will help stu
dents, architects, preservation
ists, and researchers.
 Accordingto Aurand, the county 
donated the drawings to CMU
The University can make the draw
ings accessible to students, re
searchers, and even property owners 
who want to know more about their 
homes.
because the University can pro
vide the proper care and handling 
to preserve them. Also, the Uni
versity can make the drawings 
accessible to students, research
ers, and even property owners 
who want to know more about
their homes.
The archives were established 
in 1984 to document the architec
tural heritage of the Pittsburgh* 
area, and contain over 7,000 
drawings, designs, and blue
prints.
Carnegie Mellons Modern Language and European Studies Programs will present 
the following lecture for the campus community by
Jonathan Harris:
ii
National Conflicts in the 
Soviet Union
Wednesday, November 7 
(73rd anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution)
103 Margaret Morrison Building 
(Breed Hall)
4:30 pm
Refreshments will be served.
Jonathan Harris is Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of 
Pittsburgh and editor of the Russian and East European monograph series for the 
University of Pittsburgh Press.
gM- grhTSnD prDn
Academic Computing & Instructional Technology/Carnegie Mellon University
The First Annual 
Computer 
Products Expo
Vendors participating:
Apple, Claris, cT, Digital, Edutech, EZMail, IBM, Informix, MacMach, 
MacMail, Microsoft, NeXT, Radius, SUN, and WordPerfect.
Where: Skibo Ballroom
When: Tuesday, November 13, 1990
Time: 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
Studying so hard, you cant see the forest i 
the trees? Then take a break and come to j 
The Computer Products Expo!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990s:__r<:
pSmnvG DltAs kct'ttnG Enn tvcDnlGn
FEE, from page 1
kjrs, and theyll be able to control the 
hool. That doesnt seem right, but there 
[oesnt seem to be a lot we can do about 
~tffe just have to try to make people 
jore aware of whats going on.
People have strong feelings on the 
utrject, said Witchner. Some dont fully 
efeve we have enough money, while 
thers believe we have enough and arent 
nahaging it well. A lot of people do care 
lieway or the other.
Junior chemical engineering major 
fee Petrich, a member of Carnegie
Mellons Baseball Club, said, Obviously, 
if were going to get more money, were 
happy about the vote. Most of the 
funding for the Baseball Club comes 
from the Activities Fee.
Hopefully, the raise will allow [the 
Baseball Club] to get some extra equip
ment and not do so much fund-raising, 
Petrich said.
According to senior computer engi
neering major John Heinlein, The 
Computer Club has supported the raise 
in the past  weve supported anything 
that brings more money to student orga
nizations. Heinlein, the Computer Club 
president, also said, we could have gotten 
by with less money, but we wouldnt 
have gotten anything accomplished this 
year.
Heinlein went on to say that the 
Computer Club may ask for more money 
for capital investments they couldnt 
make this year. Its very conceivable 
that we wont get it, though," he said.
I think the increase is good, provided 
that what has happened in the past 
doesnt happen again, said third-year 
architecture student Kevin Settembrino,
because promises that were made [in 
terms of funding] never came through.
Most people on campus wont feel the 
full benefit of $50 because there are too 
many special interest groups, said se
nior chemical engineering major Julian 
Bentley.
The Fee increase is not finalized yet; 
the plan will go before the Board of Trust
ees at their November 12 meeting. If 
approved, the increase will go on the next 
tuition bill.
Neighbor doesnt anticipate much 
trouble getting Trustee approval, though.
They have voted for Fee increases in thp 
past, he said, and hopefully theyll crapi,,. 
tinue to do so. I just hope theyve read up, 
on the fiscal problems weve been having.,',
We just have to take it one step at.a. 
time, said Witchner.
However, Witchner emphasized th^t, 
the money isnt the full answer to the,, 
problem. It will make a difference, shg,, 
said, but, even more than before, it wilj,,. 
require that the Funding and Recogni
tion Committee, Senate, and organizan, 
tions pay even closer attention to how., 
the money is spent.Construction continues
OBSTRUCTION, from page 1
rdamage to some of the occuied offices beneath. Once con;ftKction began, workers found 
i&t the side walls had shifted, in 
)me places several inches. The 
roject turned out to be much 
gger than originally expected, 
hysical Plant workers decided 
remove the side walls and reuildthem.
The Haraerschlag project is in 
last phase, and is expected to 
completed in about two weeks, 
{instruction went smoothly, and 
lesteps were only closed off once 
.twice.
The Morewood Gardens project 
also a structural issue. When 
iorewood Gardens was a private 
implex, a parking garage was 
eneath the building. That space 
; now used for storage, but there 
been major water damage
We need to look at where the insti
tution is going and how a project re
lates to other campus projects
 Stephen Saulis, 
Physical Plant director
there also. The Physical Plant is 
currently in the process of in
stalling a waterproof membrane 
to prevent any further damage.
Work on Morewood Gardens is 
roughly 40 percent complete, ac
cording to Stephen Saulis, direc
tor of the Physical Plant.
Future projects of the Physical 
Plant include replacing windows 
in Doherty and Hamerschlag Hall 
(which is actually a structural 
issue in many buildings) and re
pairing many of the sidewalks on 
campus. Mechanical equipment 
is another high priority. The 
Physical Plant would like to in
sure people comfort as well as 
energy efficiency.
Every year the Physical Plant 
is forced to prioritize several 
multi-million dollar projects.
We need to look at where the 
institution is going and how a 
project relates to other campus 
projects, said Saulis.
Thomas Mullaney/Tartan Photographer 
goDtG potnImG. jtvvnD rA k 2ot 1wG -yItnG Mlv rv glhTSG crvnG. 
lccnTG otG ljlDm ADrh NnIyl Rlvy. coltD rA on -M1g crvnG. jotIn 
2DnGtmnv rnD MnoDltlv lvm mnlv rA pSmnv kAAltDG MtcolnI 
MSDTos Irri rvu potnImG jrv ADrh l TrrI rA H8 clvmtmlnG. tv lmmttrv 
r on DnySIlD ljlDmG. 3pTtDt rA -M1g7 ljlDmG jnDn yt'nv r 
:ttsnGGnG pjS. Yrov liIv. 1tItn NrIyDl'nD. lvm kmlh 5rImGhtou
Shields 
wins 
UMOC
Chris Shields, of Delta Tau 
Delta, won Alpha Phi Omegas 
Ugliest Man on Campus con
test on Saturday. Shields came 
in first place in the a-penny-a- V 
vote contest with a grandtotal 
of $453.95. Delta Upsilons 
Darren Press came in second 
with $132.34.A total of 
$1,159.98 was raised for the 
United Way from this event.
Chris Shields is the design 
editor of Dossier, The Tartans 
monthly literary magazine.
Crime and Incident Report
10/27 DISORDERLY 
:0_NDUCT, 12:51 am. 
lampus Police received a 
pgrt that there was a man 
reused as a woman in the 
rst floor Skibo womens 
athroom. When the officers arrived on 
le scene, the man, a student, said that 
e knew there was no one in the ladies 
)om and that he just went in to fix his 
air. However, there was a woman in the 
istroom and she said that she was in a 
;all when the man entered. She re
ported the incident to the Entropy Susrvisor, who immediately notified 
lampus Police. The student was issued 
a internal citation for disorderly conuct.
10/27 VANDALISM/UNDERAGE 
RINKING, 1:51 am. The Mudge desk 
Cendant notified Campus Police of an 
itoxicated student who had just broken 
screen in the A tower study room, 
wording to the attendant, the student 
ad entered Mudge and had made a 
lone call. When no one answered, the 
ludent said that he would just wander 
ie halls for a while. The student pro
ceeded to walk into the study room where 
he verbally abused another student. He 
then kicked out the bottom of an eight 
foot high screen and jumped out the 
window. The attendant said that he knew 
the student from previous accidents in
volving alcohol and that the student gets 
violent when he is drunk. The student 
was stopped by police as he was entering 
the A-tower of Morewood Gardens. The 
students jacket was tom and dirty and 
had beer spilt all over it. He was issued 
citations for vandalism and underage 
drinking.
10/27 THEFT, 5:31 am. A student 
reported to Campus Police that while he 
was in the A-Tower Morewood bathroom, 
persons unknown stole his leather jacket 
which was on the sink. The jacket con
tained the students wallet and was 
valued at $260.
10/27 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 
3:09 pm. While patrolling the football 
game, an officer noticed three people 
climb out onto the CFA roof and walk 
along the rain gutter. Responding offic
ers discovered the individuals as they 
were climbing back into the fourth floor
area. Two of the individuals were visi
tors; the other, a CMU student, was 
issued a citation for Disorderly Conduct.
10/27 MEDICAL, 4:03 pm. Campus 
Police were notified that a student had 
hit his head in Skibo Hall as . he was 
trying to leap out of room 60 into the 
hallway. The student said that he mis
judged the leap and struck the top of his 
head on the door frame. When Campus 
Police found him, he was lying in the 
hallway with a one inch laceration on the 
top of his head. Student EMS personnel 
treated the student with gauze pads and 
wrap before he was transported to 
Presbyterian Hospital. The victim did 
not lose consciousness.
10/27 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 4:17 
pm. A Giant Iguana mountain bike locked 
to a handrail in the basement of 
Henderson Hall was damaged. Both tires 
were punctured, and the front and rear 
brake handles, as well as the front and 
rear shift levers, were bent beyond use. 
Damage was estimated at $250.
10/28 BROKEN PARKING GATE, 
1:06 am. A security guard observed a 
blue Mustang break through the entrance
gate of the Tech Garage. The driver told 
responding officers that he was used to 
the gate being up for football games. He 
said that he was busy talking with the 
passengers in his car when he accidently 
drove through the gate. He was informed 
that he would possibly have to pay to 
replace the gate.
10/28 MEDICAL ASSIST, 1:16 am. 
Fraternity patrol officers found an in
toxicated man on the lawn of Sigma Al
pha Epsilon. City medics were requested 
to respond to and care for him because he 
could not care for himself and no one 
claimed responsibility for him.
10/28 PYROTECHNICS VIOLA
TION, 10:46 am. While on Margaret 
Morrison Street, officers heard a loud 
pop coming from the Hill Dorms. A stu
dent was seen in the vicinity carrying a 
large tubular object and was then followed 
into Scobell Hall. When approached by 
police, the student admitted to firing the 
Polish cannon and was then advised to 
speak with Chief LaPaglia in the morn
ing. The student was also informed that 
a report would be filed and that a copy 
would be sent to the dean of Student
Affairs.
10/31 MEDICAL, 9:12 pm. While, 
playing soccer at Gesling Field, a stiiC 
dent was struck in the nose by the arm or 
a fellow player. The student refused 
medical attention and returned to t^e1- 
field to play once his nose stopped* 
bleeding. .
11/1 PERSONAL INJURY, 4:29 pm:: 
While walking to a police vehicle front 1 
the squad room, an officer stepped on anJ 
unknown object with his right foot. The*, 
foot became increasingly sore and painO 
ful as the night went on. He was treated 
at West Penn Hospital and was instructed1 
to stay off his foot for about a week.
11/2 THEFT, 3:17 am. A custodial' 
reported to Campus Police that he haji" 
seen two men in the Tartan Grill kitchen^ 
area holding two bags ofbagels. He yelled^ 
after them and followed them out the* 
Grill area doors closest to the Cut but!1 
had no luck in catching the intruders.^ 
bag of bagels along with a long loaf of 
French bread were found later in the dajC 
on the Skibo loading dock.
Compiled by 
RHONDA STRUMINGER
Strategic Planning Associates, Inc. 
and 
Temple, Barker & Sloane, Inc.
WASHINGTON, DC  NEW YORK  BOSTON  SAN FRANCISCO  LONDON  PARIS
Cordially invite you to a presentation on
Opportunities in 
Management Consulting
Please join Rich Noll, Vice President, and CMU graduates for a discussion of 
career opportunities in our Washington and New York offices.
Tuesday, November 6,H,,4 
Skibo Room ?HP Z$44 pm
A discussion on minority recruiting opportunities will follow
Interested 1991 graduates submit resumes and transcripts to: 
Career Services and Placement 
December 3,1990 - January 14,1991

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
How to turn a democracy into 
an oligopoly\ in one easy step
 Last week, the student body 
 voted to raise the Activities Fee 
to $50 per semester, and we ap
plaud it for a job well done. The 
fee will help keep organizations 
such as The Thistle and 
crew,alive  and it will 
strengthen the resources of the 
Activities Board, the Student 
Union, and many other student 
programs.
But never mind that we like 
the referendums results. Last 
Weeks vote pointed out  once 
again  a distressing fact: The 
campus completely failed to 
represent itself.
Whats really important is that 
out of the 6,000 people eligible to 
Vote on the referendum, only 598 
voted  one in ten. Thats horri
bly irresponsible  and we as 
students need to change our roles 
' as members the community..
Much, if not most, of the stu
dent body passed by the voting 
..table in front of Doherty Hall. 
We, the students, knew about 
the vote. Most of us blew it off. 
And that sets a dangerous pre
cedent.
312 people voted for the refer
endum, and 286 voted against it. 
When the numbers are this 
Small, the campus allows itself 
. to be at the mercy of a few special 
interest groups. It could have 
been either AB or the Greek 
community  or any other mi
nority  making our decisions 
for us.
Thats not democracy  its 
the tyranny of a small number of 
people. Sound like an oligopoly? 
it should.
-Tomorrow, all of us, regardless 
of whether or not we voted on the 
Activities Fee, will have the op
portunity to vote again. This 
time, its for senators and gover
nors, leaders and policy makers.
. Its important to the nation, and
to us.
But if follow the pattern of last 
weeks vote, we will fail completely 
to represent ourselves yet again.
If you think your representa
tive has done an admirable job for 
the budget and youd like to see 
him or her continue, you should 
go vote for him or her. Or if your 
senator slept through the S&L 
debacle and youre mad, you 
should go vote him or her out.
Americas system of democracy 
is based on a pretty simple set of 
rules, and for those of us whove 
forgotten, lets review: We the 
people must be active and in
formed. We must go vote, and we 
must understand what or who 
were voting for.
The vast majority of us can vote. 
But thats not a just right, not 
something to do when weve 
caught up on our homework and 
our sleep  its a responsibility. 
As citizens of the United States, 
its our obligation to get out of 
bed, go down to the voting booth, 
and check the names of the people 
who should represent us in the 
government.
But thats not all. Its important 
to study who or what were voting 
for. Putting checks next to ran
dom names is irresponsible  
maybe even more irresponsible 
than not voting.
If we dont go out and vote re
sponsibly now, then we shouldnt 
complain about what errors our 
representatives make later on. We 
will have made a larger error by 
not doing our part at the ballot 
box.
As Americans, we all must take 
a stand. Otherwise, it might be 
the Teamsters or the tobacco lobby 
or some other small group that 
determines how the country does 
its business.
Its scary. And its not demo
cratic.
Chill out, for cripes sake
You look around the computer 
cluster you have been sitting in 
.for thirty-three hours and see 
the same twenty-five faces, 
though somewhat more drawn, 
sitting exactly where they were 
when you started.
You pick up the paintbrush and 
put one more, or was that one too 
many, strokes on you final port
folio piece. You have nineteen 
hours to finish.
Sound familiar? It should. Its 
that time of the year again. No 
more coasting; mid-semester 
grades have come, and the exams 
and projects that will determine 
; your semester QPA are under
way. It is time for work to get 
serious.
And with increased work comes 
| increased stress.
At Carnegie Mellon, stress is a 
given part of life. Face ityoure 
here, and the stress isnt going to 
! go away at least until after finals. 
But you are not alone in feeling 
frustrated and exhausted, and 
you are not powerless.
. Weve all heard it before, but a 
refresher course in stress-relievirig every now and then cant 
hurt. Many groups and activi
ties on campus are there to help 
students get through stressful 
periods more easily. Along with 
! the wealth of anxiety, there are
Say no to new taxes, or pay for it
onnnD Il on VmtrD
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
If you dont say No 
to New Taxes you wont 
have time to do your 
homework.
Youll be working 8 
hours a day to meet all your increased 
living costs. As a charter member of 
Citizens Against Government Waste, I 
have learned that cutting Government 
Waste is the answer to eliminating the 
deficit, not raising taxes.
The comptroller General, who works 
for Congress, issued a report that there 
are 180 billion dollars being wasted by 
Congress, and Congress has the guts to 
demand new taxes. Congress has not 
eliminated even one of their wasteful 
programs.
Any new taxes will go down the sink 
hole of government waste. Taxes have
already risen 111 % in the last eight years 
while Federal Spending has increased 
122%. Every tax increase has led to an 
increase in the National Deficit.
Congress will not work to solve our 
nations problems; they are the problem. 
The entrenched permanent Congress is 
more concerned with being re-elected 
than with working intelligently to solve 
our problems. Congress has the guts to 
vote themselves a 39% pay increase that 
is costing American taxpayers 
$13,000,000 per year.
Jane Brady is running for U.S. Senate 
from Delaware on a platform of Govern
ment Reform. We need more Congress
men and Senators to do the same. Jane 
will turn down the extra salary if elected. 
Jane pledges to serve for only two terms, 
and she wont send out unsolicited mass 
mailing at the expense of taxpayers,
which now costs taxpayers hundreds of 
millions of dollars. Jane says special 
interest groups have too much influence 
in Congress, so she refuses to accept any 
contribution from Political Action Com
mittees.
These same Political Action Commit
tees and Congress permitted, and in some 
cases actually abetted, Savings and Loan 
rip-offs. They will now cost every Ameri
can family an estimated extra $30 per 
month for the next 30 years. The scoun
drels who have stuck us with this bill 
arent even being prosecuted.
One half ofthe failed S&Ls were in the 
State of Texas, where Congressman Jim 
Wright interfered with the Government 
Regulators when they warned the  
ings and Loans of their destructive prac
tices. Jim Wright, Speaker ofthe House 
Please see TAXES, p
Anti-rape signs are a good reminder
some opportunities and strate
gies to take that can offset the 
stress. The University offers just 
as many outlets for fun and relax
ation as it does for stress  its 
just a matter of knowing where to 
turn.
Athletics, tutoring, AB movies 
and other events, and even Phipps 
Conservatory are all good ways to 
blow off some steam, and getting 
eight consecutive hours of sleep 
can do wonders, too.
If these activities dont take a 
load off your shoulders, just tak
ing some time out to talk to some
one  another student, your RA, 
or someone at the Counseling 
Center  can help you clear your 
mind.
But dont take it too far the 
other way. Too much frivolity now 
will only mean that much more 
stress later, when youre bogged 
down with all the work you put off 
to avoid being too stressed in the 
first place.
You may think that you dont 
have the time to waste on extra
curricular endeavors. But if youre 
crunching for a longtime, chances 
are that the few hours you spend 
mentally and physically recharg
ing yourself away from the clus
ter or the library will pay off in 
the end in the form of increased 
productivity.
Editor: & Os
This letter is in re
sponse to Alex Ogilvies 
letter entitled Anti- Letter to 
Rape Painting Angers the Editor 
Frats [10/29],
Although I was not involved in the 
sign-painting, I would like to explain a 
few things to you and those who also hold 
your opinions.
First of all, I do not believe that these 
signs were intended to educate the 
fraternities; nor were they intended to 
accuse all fraternity members of being 
rapists. I think they were designed as a 
reminder to all those who frequent fra
ternities that no woman, no matter how 
she is dressed, how much she has had to 
drink, what her reputation, should be 
forced to participate in sexual activity. 
Acquaintance rape is defined by the Cen
ter for Victims of Violent Crime as using 
physical force, emotional bargaining, 
blackmail, or mind games to force a 
woman to have sexual intercourse. This 
also applies as a definition for sexual 
assault when actual intercourse does not 
occur.
As for the so-called virtues of fraternal 
organizations, whether national or on 
this campus, and their attempts to stop 
sexual assault: I myself have been sexu
ally assaulted twice on this campus, once 
by a pledge at DU (and I am certain this 
would have been a rape if I had not 
managed to get away), and once by a 
brother at Pika. I have friends who have 
been raped at ATO and Beta.
I have talked to women and heard 
their stories of humiliation, degradation 
and assault by members of virtually ev
ery fraternity on this campus. This, again,
does not mean that every frat member is 
a would-be rapist; it is just to say that 
rape and assault happen frequently in 
fraternities on this campus and goes 
virtually ignored.
Apparently, Pittsburgh Action Against 
Rape gets approximately four 
month from women who have been raped 
at Carnegie Mellon fraternities. This says 
nothing of all the attacks that go com
pletely unreported.
Those anti-rape signs, as far as I c 
tell, were designed to raise the con
sciousness of everyone on this campus, 
not just fraternity members. Specifically 
among the fraternities, there is i 
eral objectification of women that is re
volting. All the proof you need is in the 
posters, t-shirts, and comments that come 
out of these institutions: Phi Kaps tPlease see DATE RAPE,
Counseling Center found to be uncaring
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
The longer Im at 
CMU, the more I hear 
about the counseling 
center. And it isnt good 
news that I have been 
hearing. My freshman year I didnt even 
know that it existed until they were 
represented at a meeting I attended. 
There I heard them say that they treat 
many more faculty than students be
cause, students just dont come for help. 
I couldnt believe their lack of self promo
tion to the one commodity that is paying 
their salaries, the students.
At a point in my CMU career I could 
have really used a professional helper, 
but when I inquired to my friend who 
had said they had gone I was told horror 
stories about how the counseling center 
had treated suicide, eating disorders, 
stress, and roommate conflicts. There
fore, I did not seek the use of my 6 free 
sessions.
Overall, I have found this CMU orga
nization to be very lax, uncaring, and
unresponsive to the students needs on 
campus. This doesnt mean that I dont 
urge you to get help if you are struggling 
with a problem. There are many great 
organizations outside of CMU, many o! 
them free, which may be more suited to 
your needs. But right now I could not 
honestly promote the Carnegie Mellon 
Counseling Center as a caring  
healthy choice to help you cope with 
problems.
Name withheld upon request
g ~ f nTrD TIlcnG Ilhn tv on jDrvy lDnvl
Editor: & nsg
This letter is in re- (CSSSRVlUi llall 60gard to The Tartans -----------------------
Crime & Incident Re- Letter to 
port, H4P, issue, the Editor 
Campus Police re
ported that the color of paint found 
splashed on a car parked in front of 
Margaret Morrison store fronts was the 
same color of the newly painted fence.
The fence was painted with Kappa Kappa 
Gamma letters in that color. We would 
like to point out that Kappa has yet to 
paint the fence this semester. Also, there 
is no trail of paint leading to the Kappa 
house or any painting paraphernalia on 
our patio. Furthermore, the entire house 
was attending an off-campus event that 
evening.
Due to the fact that The Tartan is such
a widely read newspaper, we would lit* 
to suggest that the staff take the timet 
check its sources more thoroughly, es!'e' 
cially something as serious as the Crime 
& Incident Report.
Joanne Nicklas (KKG)
Laura Adams (KKG)
Alexis de Planque (KKG)
Sherri Redinger (KKG)
UolviG r lII jor onITnm hlin -M1g l GSccnGG
nnD r on VmtrDEditor: ^ Oi
For the first time in 
10 years, the Ugliest 
Man on Campus Con- Lttr tO 
test (UMOC) has been the Editor 
a success. Over $1000 
was raised to benefit the United Way. I 
would like to personally thank everyone 
who made this feat possible, especially:
all 18 contestants (including one set of 
Siamese twins), the voters, I.C. Light, 
Pittsburgh Brewing, The Tartan, Adam 
Goldsmith and The Thistle Yearbook, 
and R.J. Runas.
I would also like to thank the brothers 
and pledges of A Phi O for providing me 
with support and enthusiasm; whether 
it was sitting at the voting table or
chugging orange juice to get the donation 
canisters, everything is greatly appr1' 
ated. Finally, thank you, Doug Cool, f-' 
being my right hand man during & 
entire project.
Helga Yang 
Chair,
The Ugliest Man on Campus 199

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 19907
Bush claims that he 
wont let the boys down
Michael J. Ewedosh
And we will not let them down.
Those are the words a group of 
Rochester, Minnesota, Republi
cans read from the lips of the 
president as his Washington 
spokesperson told reporters that 
he would take his Thanksgiving 
meal with troops in the Persian 
Gulf.
And we will not lei them down.
These are not easy times,"Bush 
told them. But I have never been 
more proud of all the young men 
and young women  all volun
teers, highly motivated, beauti
fully trained, who are serving 
halfway around the worldthan 
I am today.
And we will not let them down.
The them Bush speaks of are 
the group of 210,000 men and 
women  many of them about as 
old as you and I. They will soon 
increase in number to 310,000. 
The U.S. contingent  already 
the largest deployment abroad 
since Vietnam  will soon grow 
to more than three-fourths of the 
multinational force in the Gulf.
And we will not let them down.
They will pass the Thanksgiv
ing holiday entrenched in the 
Saudi Arabian desert or aboard 
ships lingering in the Gulf, half
way around the world from any
one who gives a damn. Their holi
day meal will feature turkey that 
looks a lot like something the 
Highlander might serve on a notso-bad day. They might even catch
glimpse of the President as he 
makes his way from unit to unit, 
ship to ship. Then again, they 
might not see him at all.
And we will not let them down.
Theyve been there since Au
gust: When Saddam Husseins 
tanks rolled onto the streets of 
Kuwait, American planes rolled 
off runways in the U.S. and at 
bases around the world. Those 
planes started a procession of 
American men, women, and sup
plies that hasnt yet ended and 
that may not end for quite some 
time. Western leaders hope that 
this procession will contain the 
Iraqi military and its leader, de
picted by Bush as worse-thanHitler, within Iraqi borders.
And we will not let them down.
Nervous anticipation has given 
way to boredom for some of them. 
Bush rattles swords one day and 
the world braces for war, but on 
the next day, he reminds us that 
he is waiting for sanctions to work. 
Meanwhile, the costs of keeping 
such a large force in a state of 
battle readiness continues to be 
paid for with American lives: there 
have been 43 non-combat fatali
ties in Operation Desert Shield, 
and more are sure to come.
And we will not let them down.
Sooner or later, Bush will have 
to decide .what hes going to do if 
Hussein doesnt pull his troops 
out of Kuwait. Hes said that 
neither he nor the American 
people will accept anything short 
of complete withdrawal.
If Bush has evidence that 
Hussein is paying any heed to his 
remarks, hes not sharing it with 
anyone. Reports coming from the 
Gulf indicate that Hussein is still 
strengthening his positions. Dia
logue between Hussein and the 
president is nothing but a battle 
for public opinion.
And we will not let them down.
The president is using words 
like these to belay fears that they 
are in another Vietnam. Theyre 
not; the president is not commit
ting them to battles that the 
American people dont want to 
fight. As time passes, though, 
people will begin to ignore the
j n
 ''v THE
MRpUVR
Saint Elmos is a bookstore for the seekers of this world. Our books are 
chosen to invite thought, challenge assumptions, indulge your intellectual 
curiosity, and stimulate creativity. Theology, Eastern & Western Spirituality, Wholelistic Psychology, Mylh, Jungian Analysis, New Age Spiritualties, Women & Men's Studies, and New Science are some of our interests.
Not o bookstore for everyone, we invite those who are open minded and 
interested in ideas, bold ideas, to visit us and Explore the Mystery for yourself.
} PPHF E. Carson Street Pgh HOP4K
431-9100
/ Open 10-9 Mon thru Sot, Sun until 5 
i'h' . ________
Protect Your Thesis
Bring your thesis to Kinkos Copy Center for quality copies 
and professional binding service.
Bnng n this ad and we will give you 20% off on your binding order. You may 
choose any of our wide selection of cover styles and colors. Offer applies to all 
types and sizes of binding available. Only one discount per customer.
MnD nCTtDnG tv K4 mlsGuitvir9G
the copy center
KZH4 ErDnG k'nu 
K,FO ErDnG k'nu
daily rhetorical exchange between 
the president and Hussein, and 
begin to forget just why we sent 
troops into the Gulf. If and when 
the exchange of words becomes 
an exchange of bulletsor worse 
 with those troops acting as 
intermediaries, the American 
people wont remember or care 
why they were sent there. When 
they come home in flag-draped 
caskets  their brothers and sis
ters, mothers and fathers, aunts 
and uncles wont remember or 
even care why they were in the 
Gulf; theyll want to know why 
they are not able to come back 
alive.
And we will not let them down.
Some of them will pass their 
last Thanksgiving dinner with the 
President. Others among them 
will pass their last Thanksgiving 
dinner without him. The lives of 
all American troops in the Gulf 
are in the Presidents hands.
And we will not let them down.
I dont know what the President 
should do next or whether the 
actions he has taken are wise or 
unwise. Im not asking the 
President to recall troops from 
the Persian Gulf; I dont question 
the purpose of Operation Desert 
Shield. I question whether or not 
the waiting game thats being 
played in the Gulf is the best plan 
of action. How much time should 
Hussein be allowed to withdraw 
his troops from Kuwait? Should 
we have attacked earlier? Should 
we attack at all? What number of 
American deaths is acceptable 
in an action that might resolve 
the crisis? What can we do to 
make sure that we dont let them 
down?
And we will not let them down.
I dont know the answers to 
these questions, but I sure hope 
that Bush does.
Michael J. Ewedosh is a junior 
industrial management major.
"HERE'S <M PUN FOR ENPIN6 AGRESSION AW BRIMS)* A NEWWORtpORPfR
Parking * University (Jenter  Greeks 0 Student involvment  Student Senate 
Athletic Facilities  Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health  Banking 
Politics  Funding  Football Field  Student Affairs  Constitution  Construction 
Overcrowding  Contras  Housing # Sororities  Charities  Gymnasium  Dining 
Service 0 Environment 0 Recycling  Exercise  Congress  Middle East  Weathei 
Advising  Sex  Geeks  Alcohol # Drugs  Music * Mighty Mouse  Comedy 8 
WooqHi  The Muppets  Mail  Manure  Advertising  Disco  Crime  All
iions  SEI  
Howdy'.1 
rcrowding * 
Hnstap-es  
Jbhol 
Ignty Mouse  uomedy^Hie"Flaj^Woodj 
Allen  Funding  Student Affairs  Mayor  Construction  Track Field  Overcrowd 
ing  Constitution  Activities Board  Gymnasium  Housing 8 Sororities  Charitie: 
Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Congress  Club Sports  Middle East 
Weather  Advising  Crime  Sex  Geeks0 Corruption 0 Violence  Alcohol  Drugs 
Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Woody Allen  Funding  Student Affairs 
Construction  Overcrowding # Housing # Racial Issues  Sororities  Charities
Letters to the Editor  Deadline Friday 5 pm 
Skibo 50
WERE MORE THAN A MAILBOX!
COMPUTER> Private Mailbox Rental...24 hour access  UPS, DHL, Overnight Letters  Office Supplies  Photocopies Packing and Shipping  Passport Photos, etc.... Business Cards  FAX Service
We specialize in packing and shipping _______computers worldwide________
2rGlI :SGtvnGG lvm grhhSvtcltrv pnD'tcnG
kMH :1Vp VUgu -pk
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 687-6100 CONVENIENTLY LOCATED NEAR FORBES AVENUE A CARNEGIE MUSEUM
blIi - ili TiiUmiiq
Sunday through Thursday 8-11 pm
CalculusWell5403
PhysicsWell5427
ChemistryWell5205
Academic WritingWeM5205
Intro to ComputingWeH5409
Hu Kiglit I'kicc lo Timi
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.........
Managing Editor.....
Business Manager..
....Howdy Pierce
..MichaelT. Rose 
.......Frank DiVito
News Editor..............Nicole Brockmann
Forum Editor....................Susan Abrams
Sports Editor..................Katie Culbertson
Features Editor...................Allison Durazzi
Diversions Editor.....  Stephen dicker
Calendar Editor.........Daniel de Graridpre
Magazine Editor.............Jennifer Kersteln
Dossier Literary Editor..........Jack Sijbert
Dossier Design Editor..........Chris Slelds
Art Editor..................William C. SabYam
Photo Editor.....................Tad Dockst^der
Photo Staff Manager.......Ignatius Sasmrta
Darkroom Manager..........D.A. Hendeison
Production Manager........Beth A. Moses
Copy Manager..........................Alim Ray
Asst. Managing Editor ...Nathan Fullerton 
Asst. Business Mgr. . Michael J. Ewedosh 
Asst. News Editors ....Rhonda Strumfnger 
David B. Ladek 
Asst. Forum Ed. ...Samantha A. Kossman
Asst. Sports Editor.......Jason McDoriald
Asst. Features Editors..........Truptl Patel
Dexter T. Kobayashi
Asst. Diversions Eds.......Dawn Brosonski
Teni Kasch
Asst. Magazine Editor...........Alison Green
Asst. Art Editor.................Kristina Bojpis
Contributing Editors 
Kevin Barney, Grant Carmichael, James'B. 
Endres (Tokyo), Dustin Frazier, FarronW. 
Levy (London), Jonathan Levy, Eric 
McAnallen, Thomas Nichols, Natalie 
Peterson, Don Pickett
Senior Staff 
Staffwriters: Dan Holland, Waseem Hussain, 
Javier Grillo^Vlarxuach, Randy Udavck. 
Darkroom: Jason Digman. < ;
Staffwriters 
Laura Adams, Matt Adler, Suzanne Bartlett, 
Russ Bedel, T.S. Blass, Mami Borek, Allan 
Bourdius, Alison Carter, Caleb Cohen, 
Andrew Cosentino, Jill Denesvich, Megan 
Dietz, Dan Erhard, Dan Fenell, Francis M. 
Goldsberry, Javier Grillo-Marxuach, Judy 
Grossman, Rachel Haas, Daniel Holland, 
Sarah Hamilton, Colleen Kane, Georgina 
Koon, Richard Kwlatkowski, Dave Martin, 
Daniel Martinez, Brendan McFeely, Bidlsfia 
Mukherjee, Chin Oh, Rich Robinson, Mavrk 
Roces, Doug Scott, Mike Shapiro, David 
Schwartz, Lul Sieh, Alan Sloan, Jason Lee 
Smith, Kelly Sterling, Tina Urso, A. Franklin 
Wheeler, Laurie Wilklson, Christian Williams, 
Jeffrey Woodford, Robert Wyner
it
Art
Sunrta Cherian, Brandon Chin, Eric D^vls, 
Ken Flickstein, Damien Miller, Jen Nelson, 
Chin Oh, Jeff Oplinger, Dave Pagani, Paulette 
Pan, Naomi Pearson, Jason Peftz, Kafe 
Rollenhagen, Cesar Sanchez
Comics
GregBaimal, Andi Briggs, Hint Crumpacher, 
Eric Davis, Danny Fahs, Chris Fria, Dan 
Gallagher, Dave Kapla, Andre Khromov, 
Doug Lamperski, John Lin, Neil McCarthy, 
Craig Mrusek, Paul Reed, R.J. Runas, 
ChariesSabatos,MikeShapiro,JackSIIfyert, 
Clifford Snider, Ray Strobel, K. Michael 
Thomas, Nick Wardigo
Photography/Darkroom -. 
Rick Antolic, David Docktor, Dan Frey, 
Michael Fuson, Vivek Gupta, Asif Ikram, 
Jason Irwin, Hillary Kahn, Stephen Kang, 
Augustine Kuo, Doug Luce, Sam 
Mastromatteo, Jessica Miller, Thomas 
Mullaney, Guy Paquette, Pauletta Pari, 
Alex Patho Jr., Steve Peters, Kishor Rao, 
Stanley Wong, Buddy Wells, Brian Woods, 
Gwokang Yang
Production/Layout 
Ann Campbell, Jennifer Forbes, Manish 
Modh, Pankaj S. Mody, Kishor K. Rao, 
Derek Rubinoff, Jen Sherer
Copy
Heather Broud, Marybeth A. Griffin, Heidi 
Hoover, Sean Kracklauer, Lenna Kydes, 
Daniel Martinez, Erika Olson, Christine 
Rahlmi-Assa, Christian R. Williams
Business 
James Kim, Mary Kaye Rodgers
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students duringjbe 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost'to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available forthe semester 
or academic year. The Editorials appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section are 
the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns are the opinions of .indi
vidual authors. Letters to the Editor are 
opinions of authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily members of the University com
munity. A letter intended for publication must 
be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names 
will be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject ny 
letter or column. Copyright  1990 by Tije 
Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves 
the right to withhold from publication 'afy 
copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: Die Tartan/Box 17/Camegie Mejlcn
University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Funded in part by the Activities Fee.
All rights reseived.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.___________

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990
Support members of Congress who voted to raise your taxes
Jonathan Levy
After five months of negotia
tions and a month of virtual handtor-Jiand combat in Washington 
D.C., last Monday morning Congj^ss took what appeared to be 
final vote on this years federal 
nmlget. I say appeared to be 
because the real vote on the budget 
YfiU happen tomorrow and it is 
th^t vote which has been driving 
process from the start. 
Tomorrow when tens of millions 
of Americans  including prob
ably about half a dozen Carnegie 
Mejlon studentsgo to the polls, 
tlje jobs of a third of the Senate 
ai^d all of the House of Repre
sentatives will be on the line.
popular wisdom says that you 
cant raise taxes  as the budget 
p^okage did  eight days before 
ah election without a voter backlflh against incumbent members 
o Congress.
Phis is especially true for Re
publicans, whose constituents are 
more likely to have bought into 
President Bushs 1988 promise of 
no new taxes.
Despite the fact that the final 
bill passed primarily on Demo
cratic votes, Bush is closely linked 
to the agreement and Republi
cans on Capitol Hill are setting 
new track and field records trying 
to run from any perceived asso
ciation with him before 
tomorrows votes are safely 
counted. The problem they and 
their Democratic colleagues are 
facing is the fact that the Ameri
can public is unwilling to pay a 
dime more in taxes, no matter 
how much the government may 
need the money.
During the last three presiden
tial campaigns, Bush and Ronald 
Reagan have told the voters that 
they can have all the government 
services they want without hav
ing to pay for them. Apparently a 
lot of people believed them since 
Reagan and Bush won all three 
elections.
While Reagan and four sessions 
of Congress managed to get 
through his presidency without 
having the bill come due, Bush 
and the current Congress have 
not been so lucky. It has become 
clear that the federal government 
is in a world of financial trouble 
and lawmakers can no longer hide 
the fact that something has to be 
done.
The national debt is at $3.2 tril
Student secedes 
from United States
Don Pickett
happened. I told myself that 
it Would happen one day, when 
the problems piled so high that 
thevstack of solutions didnt even 
reabh half-way. Until then, I 
trusted those in charge to do their 
personal best to solve the prob
lems, to come up with solutions, 
that, would solve the problem.
They didnt. I feel let down.
Drastic times required drastic 
measures. I declared myself an 
independent country. I am now a 
fuTfy sovereign nation, with my 
oWh laws, customs, and flag. I am 
not obliged to obey the laws of the 
United States, and, through a neat 
loophole, I am the ambassador to 
my former home, so I have diplo
matic immunity.
The decision was not that easy 
 I really like the United States. 
I was born here, and I have had a 
very good life. Also, as I was 
taught, I put my trust in the 
elected officials of this country 
and hoped that they would do 
something about the mess that 
the country was in.
It was a time for action, a time
MEGA BYTES.
The TCBV." Waffle Cone and Waffle Cone Sundae. Theyre 
mega-good. We make our waffle cones fresh daily, and when 
theyre filled with cool TCflVT Frozen Yogurt, its enough to blow 
your circuits!
All this and TCBV" Frozen Yogurt is 96% fat-free, with about 
half the calories of premium ice cream. Interface with one of these 
delicious treats and taste how good it really is.
TC8V. Frozen Yogurt and great tasteit computes.
ALL THE PLEASURE. NONE OF THE GUILT..TCBV
The Country\ Best Mtgurh 
Hours: HH am - H4 pm, 7 days
U
lion; even with the provisions of 
the new budget plan, it will grow 
to $5 trillion in the next five years 
before the yearly budget is finally 
balanced.
It is also clear that this problem 
is not going to just disappear.
Americans have been politically 
anesthetized for at least the last
10 years, ripping apart our public 
finances without feeling the pain. 
But any doctor will tell you that a 
patient can only stay under an
esthesia for so long before dying.
Congress has finally started to 
wake us up by raising taxes and 
cutting spending, and it is no sur
prise that we are feeling some 
pain.
As a nation, we now have to 
decide whether we want to wake 
up fully  which is going to hurt 
even more  or go back to sleep 
and die.
To a large degree that decision 
is going to be made in tomorrows 
Congressional elections.
Despite at least two years on 
the job, and in many cases much 
more, a lot of members of Con
gress will win or lose largely on 
the basis of how they voted last 
Monday morning.
Unfortunately, in most races 
where the budget is the deciding 
factor, those who voted for the bill 
will lose and those who opposed it
How they voted
Western PA representatives voting for the budget bill:
William Coyne, D-Oakland 
Doug Walgren, D-Mt. Lebanon 
John Murtha, D-Johnstown 
William Clinger, R-Warren 
Tom Ridge, R-Erie
Western PA representatives voting against the budget bill:
Joe Kolter, D-Daugherty 
Joe Gaydos, D-McKeesport 
Austin Murphy, D-Charleroi 
Bud Shuster, R-Altoona
PA Republican Senators John Heinz and Arlen Specter both 
voted for the budget bill. Neither senator's seat is up for 
election tomorrow.
will win. America doesnt seem 
ready to wake up yet and Con
gressional candidates from both 
parties realize it.
In one of the most cowardly 
political statements I have seen 
in a long time, Rep. Austin 
Murphy (D-Charleroi) told the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette last 
Monday that he voted against the 
bill because it is not the obligazbV9V k Oti B2z
Sen.Jb/e, a/&rUJhtz/bts? Unity mes&ntf
for the politicians to come out of 
the timid stupor in which they 
usually live and take some action, 
possibly unpopular, possibly 
painful, but necessary and direct 
action. I trusted the democratic 
process. Instead, I was confronted 
by a constant barrage of political 
dealing, backsliding, double
speak, and general Washington 
bullshit. I trusted Washington to 
do something to handle the mess. 
They did not.
As the Democrats and Republi
cans argued over just whos fault 
the mess was, the country slid 
deeper into trouble. As politicians 
tried to find a rock under which to 
hide, a way to avoid having to 
take any real chances, the deficit 
got larger, social programs 
slipped, and Ronald Reagan ap
peared on the cover of Time 
magazine.
Dissatisfaction with Washing
ton is nothing new. There is a 
general low-level throw-thebums-out feeling about Washing
ton, a sense that our Senators 
and Representatives are doing 
nothing but wasting our money 
and time. This time, however, 
things had gotten out of hand. 
The budget was not a new prob
lemthe crisis has been growing 
for the last few years, and every
body agreed that something had 
to be done. This year, it became
an emergency; a recession was on 
the way, oil prices were up, the 
growth indices were down  
things were coming to a head.
At a time when we needed 
elected officials most, Capitol Hill 
disappeared into a haze of accu
sations and acrimony. Consensus, actionneeded words, were 
not to be found. Bush blamed 
Congress, Congress blamed 
Reagan and Bush, and everyone 
else tried to keep quiet. As a 
people, we were let down.
The deficit was the deciding 
Please see PICKETT, pagelO
Summer Abroad
The Best of Times
Summer is a lively time to study abroad and earn 
credit. Its the season when Europe comes alive with its 
outdoor cafes, festivals, and celebrations. And it may 
be the best time for you to escape the ordinary summer 
scene.
Choose from 20 different Syracuse University pro
grams in England, France, Italy, Hong Kong, Spain, 
Switzerland, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Austria, and 
the Netherlands.
Syracuse University 
Division of International Programs Abroad
Summer Programs Office - Dept. T 
119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, NY 13244 
(315) 443-9420-9421
tion of the people of southwestern 
Pennsylvania to bail out the failed 
economic policies of the Reagan 
and Bush administrations.
Iowa Republican Representa
tive Tom Tauke, who is running 
for the Senate, was quoted as say
ing that he opposed Bush on the 
budget and voted against it be
cause The president has a differ
ent job than I have, and Iowans
certainly arent interested in 
sending a whole lot more money 
to Washington.
Maybe these two Congressmen 
have some redeeming qualities 
which should permit them to remain in office, but the fact that 
they do not have the political 
courage to stop lying to their con
stituents about the state of th 
governments finances suggest^ 
that they should be voted out; 
Yet, those lies will probably im. 
prove their chances of winning.
If you are going to the polls 
tomorrow, you may be tempted to 
join in the rush to vote the bum; 
out. But by opposing the menv 
bers of Congress who voted foi* 
the budget or supporting th 
who voted against it, you will only 
send a message to Washington 
that you value your own short
term interests more than the financial health of the nation.
There are already enough 
people in this country who are 
going to make that mistake to-| 
morrow. Dontjointhem. Support} 
the candidates who have the 
courage to support a tough bud. 
get bill the week before an elec
tion.
Jonathan Levy is a second year 
SUP A masters student and a 1990, 
biology department alumnus.
CMU needs 24-hour 
services for students
U-M-h
Brendan McFeely
Some things that occurred to 
me at 2:50 am: What happens if 
you are a sick, hungry CMU stu
dent with a paper due and its 
4 am?
You suffer like the dog that you 
seem to be.
Why is it that not one campus 
outlet is open past 3 am? Why 
does the library close? Why do 
clusters close?
Admittedly, most people here 
are well-organized enough for this 
not to be a huge problem, but 
what about the freshman who is 
just coming into his or her highpressure situation? What does 
he or she do?
Lets say there is a sick man on 
your floor... hes really sick. Hes 
basically dying. Who do you call? 
Health services? No, of course 
notthey close at 5 pm. Instead, 
you call security, and you go to a 
hospital. Why dont we have a 
round-the-clock campus infir
mary? Why isnt there a full-time 
doctor on campus, rather than 
just the nurses who staff the 
health office?
Also, why cant I go down to the 
Tartan Grill right now and use 
another of the meals that I will 
probably lose? Why is there no 
late-night staff on duty? How 
much trouble could it possibly be 
to have a few people there to dole 
out the food?
While Im on the subject of the 
Dining Service, why does the 
school feel the perverse need to 
make it so difficult for those of us 
(i.e. independent freshmen) who 
have to be on a large meal plan?
The Highlander and Morewood 
Gardens cafeterias seem to never 
be open. The Tartan Grill has the 
shittiest, most overpriced food I 
have ever eaten, and Salads Plus, 
perhaps the only place on campus 
to get a near-decent meal, has the 
most erratic hours of all.
As an added minus, the meal 
plan allowances at Salads Plus 
and at Tartan Grill are so low as 
to make it nearly impossible to 
get a filling meal without going 
over. What with all the meals 
that students lose money on for 
not eating, it seems almost an 
insult to hear Youre over by a 
dollar from one of the cashiers. 
Adding insult to injury is the scale 
at Salads Plus, which for some 
reason always seems to have my 
plate weighed in at no less than1 
two dollars over the limit. It seems 
Please see BRENDAN, page 9
jniiver styi ol syei
To get what you want:
a) in academics
b) in the business world
c) in sports
d) with your parents
e) in sexual activity
Simplyuse your ability to:
a) know the others involved
b) discuss matters openly
c) be sensitive
d) make appropriate choices
e) use force and coercion
If you matched e) and e), you 've got a 
combination that adds up to rape. Rape 
touches all of our lives. If you or someone 
you know has raped or been raped, talk to
Student Affairs x2073
Counseling Center x2922 
Campus Police x2323

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 19909
zfA R1- gkqU Efq2 UNV 2VpfBIeUfk pVk 
Y-pU Nkq -2 k bkEEV wPower from nuclear fission: Is 
it really your friend, or not?
Jeffrey Woodford
In 1958, Lewis Strauss, then chairman of 
the Atomic Energy Commission, declared 
that electricity from the atom would soon 
be too cheap to meter.
Boy, was he wrong.
That kind of understatement ranks right 
up there with Neville Chamberlains Peace 
in our time in 1938.
For not only is electricity from nuclear 
fission plants less competitive than elec
tricity from coal-fired plants, its ecological 
and environmental costs are hugely greater. 
Not only must we contend with radioactive 
sludge that will be around for the next 
billion years or so (the half-life of uranium238, or the time it takes for half of the 
uranium sample to decay, is 4,500,000,000 
years), but we must also deal with the 
possibility that a nuclear reactor may melt 
down, killing thousands, and inflicting 
many with horrible radioactivity-induced 
diseases, such as leukemia. Weve already 
seen that its possible with the Three Mile 
Island accident and the Chernobyl melt
down.
Lets face it. Nuclear fission is inherently 
evil.
But this opinion is only one side of the
coin. The other side says, Hey wait a 
minute. Youve got it all wrong. Nuclear 
fission is your friend. Its the design of the 
nuclear reactor thats faultyits too com
plex. Current light-water reactors use an 
elaborate system of pumps to move the 
water around in cooling the nuclear core 
and converting water to steam, which turns 
turbines.
Ifyoureliedless on pumps, which require 
copious amounts of electricity, and more on 
natural forces, such as gravity, a better 
system would be achieved.
New designs are being developed as we 
speak. One system involves water injection 
jets being located above the nuclear core, so 
if the cooling system should somehow 
rupture, the core would remain submerged. 
Another system uses molten sodium as the 
cooling liquid instead of water: molten so
dium gobbles heat much more effectively 
than water.
Besides, coal- and oil-fired power plants 
give off nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides 
which cause acid rain and make air virtu
ally unbreathable. Nuclear reactors only 
give off carbon dioxide. Also, in the event of 
an energy crisis, we can rely on supplies of 
uranium much longer than we can rely on 
supplies of natural gas or oil; even though 
uranium is nonrenewable, the supplies are 
much larger than those of natural gas and 
oil.
So, you see, with these new designs for 
nuclear fission reactors, the possibility of a 
meltdown is virtually nonexistent. And we
Hey wait a minute. 
You've got it all wrong. 
Nuclear fission is your 
friend."  ,rt
cannot continue using coal, oil, and naftrral gas indefinitely; supplies will run out 
and our environment will be destroyecL 
Energy based on solar or wind energy are 
not yet ready for large-scale production of 
electricity. Nuclear reactors must be'in;-'] 
corporated into the energy grid of Amer^k 
if we want to save our environment.
So there you have it.
But whats this other type of nucl^&f 
power Ive heard aboutnuclear fusion?''
Thats when two atoms come together ak 
one, releasing energy in the process. Nxi 
radioactive sludge, no toxic gases releas^cf 
However, this system requires extremely 
high temperatures, so hot that all con
tainment vessles we have available tod&>1 
would melt. All of them.
Therefore, scientists are working Wiffi1 
the idea of a magnetic containment fieW: 
for the fusion fuel. But the technology is 
simply not availablenot in this century fi
anyway.:om
Jeffrey Woodford is a freshman cherrti^-' 
try major.
Help The Thistle be 
the best it can be
onnnD Il on VmtrD
VmtrD$
Yearbook re
minds stu
dents, faculty Letter to
and staff that a x c 
successful Editor
yearbook needs the hearty coop
eration of the entire university. 
The Thistle Yearbook is a perma
nent record of student activities 
and a lasting reminder of all that
best and dearest in college life, 
it will fall short of its purpose 
mless every student takes an 
nterest in and supports the proluction of the book.
It is the ambition of The Thistle 
Yearbook staff to make the 1991 
Thistle rank among the very best 
)fcollege yearbooks. The realizaion ofthis ambition rests in large 
nasure with the student body.
Activities and events in class 
)r out of class deserve to be reorded as part of the history of 
:he school. Some of the rarest bits 
^information are lost for want of 
somebody to record them. Pictures, writings, and quotations 
all help to make the book of greater 
interest to you as well as the ca
sual reader.
. Remember, time flies. All pic
tures and text should be in before 
leaving for winter break. Contri
butions from the student body 
can be dropped off at the Skibo 
Information Desk or may be 
handed to any member of The 
Thistle Yearbook staff.
The Thistle Yearbook staff in
cludes: Adam F. Goldsmith, Edi
tor in Chief; Tanya Keith, Aca
demics Editor; Lara DeNardo, 
Activities Editor; Stephanie 
Horwitz, Events Editor; Laura 
Davis, Greeks Editor; Katy 
Coonrod, Housing Editor; 
Emmanuelle Lafer, Seniors Edi
tor; Kevin Barney, Sports Editor; 
Julie Jenson, University Services 
Editor; and Erika Olsen, Year in 
Review Editor.
Adam F. Goldsmith 
Editor, The Thistle Yearbook
''WAIT HE HAS MORLrn vr vnj lCnG rD 
GSAAnD on crvGn6SnvcnG
TAXES, from page 6
of Representatives and Tony 
Coelho, second ranking Member 
of the House, resigned because of 
pressure for their shady dealings. 
They are still collecting several 
hundred thousand dollars a year 
from excessive pensions and ex
penses. Three Senators, all 
Democrats, are now under inves
tigation for similar practices.
During President Reagans ad
ministration, he did reduce taxes 
for every American taxpayer. 
Every budget he sent to Congress 
was ignored, and Congress passed 
a much higher budget.
Reagan was a great President. 
President Bush is doing a great 
job, but he is blocked by an even 
bigger majority of big taxing 
Democrats.
Lets give the President the bal
anced budget amendment and the 
line item veto. We are all fortu
nate that for some years we have 
had an excellent administrator 
and faculty that have made every 
dollar make the work of more 
than one dollar and balance the
PFaorSD GnD'tcnG lDn l hSco vnnmnm 
lmmttrv r glDvnytn MnIIrv -vt'nDGts
5RENDAN, from page 8 versity loses the use of one of its
0 nie that the meal plan system biggest computer clusters, which 
houldbe totally done away with, can be an enormous problem for 
vhile the Validine system should . those -without easy access to a 
>ecome the norm. I have yet to Macintosh, like myself.
By the same token, there seems 
to be little reason to close any 
cluster. As long as there are 
work study positions to be filled, 
there will be students filling them.
Since the only requirement to keep
>ee a real reason for the meal 
>lans.
Why does the library close at 
J am? Is it really so ridiculous to 
ceep it open past this seemingly 
rbitrary hour? How many staff 
members does it require? There 
ant be that many posts that re
tire a person. What is the logic 
3r losing up? After all, with the 
losing of Hunt Library, the nia cluster operating is the CCon, 
why cant they stay open 24 hours 
a day?
I know that I am posing ques
tions without answers here, but it
seems to me that someone of ad
ministrative importance must 
read this paper, if only to delude 
him or herself into thinking that 
he or she is staying in touch with 
the student body.
Perhaps whoever this is can re
spond to me in the form of a letter 
to the editor.
And please, lets not hear stan
dard rhetoric. Lets hear some
thing original and almost realis
tic for once.
Brendan McFeely is a freshman 
in H&SS.
Graduate Student Organization
GSO announces the formation of an action committee to 
address concerns of graduate students.
If you have issues of importance for graduate students 
university-wide, send a letter or note to:
Graduate Student Organization 
Baker Hall, Box 35
by November 9th.
If you want to be on this committee, let us know or tell 
your GSO representative
budget.
New Taxes will only make. ii 
harder for Alumni and others wh( 
make gifts to C.M.U. to find sucl 
funds. That means higher tuitior 
costs, which the administratior 
has worked hard and long to* in
sist and minimize. Let us help al 
CMU students, administratiqji 
faculty and donors by voting nc*-. 
new taxes. ,
Im an old Graduate who wa^i 
bom poor, worked in the Stee.: 
Mills at night, slept on a cot inthc. i 
locker room of the CMU Fielc. 
House and studied English on th<, > 
day shift. U.S. Steel Homestq^; 
Works, where I worked the nigljii 
shift, is shut down. ,([
One of the reasons is high tax$i,, r 
and unfair tax laws made byi^,: 
Congress controlled by the Dem<j>. i) 
crat Party for most of the last,4(A: 
years. , )0fI
Dave Schmid
Chairman & President, Tech,,, 
nical Development Co. Inc,lt)r|1 
Engineering39 rp
Engineering 77
---------------------------------------------swl
my
Hi
Next Matches 
Sunday, Nov. 11 
Wean 7500 
3 pm
An AB Special Event

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990
Anti-rape signs are a result of campus rape
DATE RAPE, from page 6
shirts reading Taste the Salty 
Spray, If it Swells, Ride it! and 
Bring your Chest to Phi Kap; 
Delta Tau Deltas Postman Party 
themes  Overnight Delivery 
and the most disgusting one, Lick 
fem, Stick 'em, Send em away; 
ATOs fencepainting that read, 
among other things, Spread your 
legs at ATO; Kappa Sigmas habit 
of holding up numbers when 
women walk by; and even the All 
Women Invited statement that
appears on nearly every frater
nity poster. What, is there no limit 
to who fraternity members want 
at their parties? Do they just want 
fresh meat?
I have been told that most of 
these comments are intended in 
jest, and my response is: At whose 
expense are you laughing? What 
kind of a general attitude does 
this promote? Maybe I am going 
to extremes here, but rape and 
sexual assault are extreme and 
serious crimes, and it is the kinds
of attitudes portrayed in the above 
examples that lead to making rape 
acceptable.
I think its great that you dont 
support rape. I wish there were 
more frat members like you. In a 
sense, it is a shame that all frater
nity members are judged together, 
but those who join fraternities 
know that they will be regarded 
according to the reputation oftheir 
house. Unfortunately, the general 
attitude of fraternities toward 
women leads people to judge them
as a whole.
Frankly, those anti-rape signs 
are a lot less offensive than what 
is happening to women on this 
campus so often and the fact that 
individuals have to resort to spray 
paint in their attempts to stop it. 
If you are against rape, you should 
be applauding the efforts to alle
viate the problem, rather than 
worrying that you will be consid
ered a rapist by association.
Name withheld upon request
CMU Maintenance fails
Editor: 
Iwouldliketo 
express great 
disappoint
ment and an
noyance with
on
Letter to 
the Editor
iCMUs Housing Maintenance de
partment. I live in Margaret 
Morrison Apartments and am 
appalled by the indifference which 
he maintenance office has shown 
me. From the first day of the se
mester, I have been without a 
working desk lamp. I have tried 
at least five times to get the lamp 
ixed by notifying the mainte
nance office. However, no one 
qualified to fix the lamp has ever 
Deen sent to my room. Having 
. ust pushed our clocks back one 
lpur, it now gets darker earlier. 
tVith the poor lightingin the room, 
H desk lamp is a necessity. CMU 
lousing rates are very expensive, 
md I expect to have such items as 
i bed, a closet, shelves, a desk, 
md a desk lamp. I truly believe
! RESEARCH PAPERS !18,500 to choosc from - nil subjects Order Catalog Today with Visa/MC or COD
faaiiymiimiMi 844-KOHa4PPPI 1 In Calif. (213) 477-8226Or. rush S2.00 to: Research Assistance 11322 Idaho Ave. 206-SN Los Angeles, CA 90025 Custon research available- alt levels
that Carnegie Mellon owes me 
some sort of refund, as I have 
been without a lamp for more 
than half of the semester.
Another problem that the hous
ing maintenance department has 
failed to fix poses a health prob
lem. Whoever painted the ceiling 
in the bathrooms of the apartment 
apparently used a cheap and im
proper paint. Consequently, the 
paint is peeling off of the ceiling 
and regularly falls onto me while 
I am using the shower!! This is 
disgusting, unsafe, and totally 
unacceptable. The problem affects 
at least eight people. The main
tenance office has been notified 
about this problem at least three 
times.
I hope the maintenance area 
can organize itself so that my 
problems and those of other CMU 
residents will be rectified shortly.
Edward L. Leventhal 
Sophomore, ECE
FreeCatalog OF government books
The U.S. Government Printing 
Office has a free catalog of new 
and popular books sold by the 
Government. Books about 
agriculture, energy, children, 
space, health, history, business, 
vacations, and much more. Find 
out what Government books are
all about. Send for your free 
catalog.
Free Catalog
P.O. Box 37000 
Washington DC 
20013-7000
Student secedes
PICKETT, from page 8
factor. The greatest problem 
facing the nation  a problem 
with disastrous consequences, 
was not addressed as much as it 
was passed around Washing
ton like a hot potato. No one 
wanted responsibility for the 
thing, lest it put a blotch on 
their perfect congressional 
records.
The decision was made for 
me. The country was spiraling 
towards deep problems, and
those elected to control things 
were doing nothing. I wanted 
no part of it. I seceded, and 
established my own country. \ 
am king and ambassador. We 
are going to set up a customs 
road block and confiscate ev
erything we like, because, hey 
its our country.
Don Pickett is a sophomore 
creative writing major. He is 
waiting for recognition from the 
U.N.
SUMMER SPECIAL
RENT NOW 
WHAT A WISE MOVE!
Eff. & 1-Bedroom Apts. 
Furnished, Air Conditioned
Start at $375
All Utilities Included
Located at 549 N. Neville
5 Minute Walk to Skibo Hall
Off-Street Parking Available
PLEASE CALL PRUDENTIAL REALTY COMPANY
261-6500
THEATRE COMPANY/j... AT THK PLAYHOUSE
A Point Park College Tradition! 222 Craft Ave., Pgh, PA 15213
 Oct. 31 thru Nov. 18 
 
The Playboy of the 
Western World '
byJ.M. Synge
In the Theatre Downstairs../ 
Directed by William Duncan 
bnmaUoSDaEDtapl l 8 Th 
pSv l Z Th
Tickets: $6 
CALL 621-4445
(also cvallabto at TIXt) 
(Student a Sr. Citizen, half-prlc, 
ono-hai hour before show).
2tl 1SIn
Free Delivery
H,4 qu gDlty 687-9555
_kcDrGG ADrh 
5SIA pltrv#
12Vq Z 0kRp pSvaUoSDG IIlhaIlh EDt ~ pl IIlhaPlh
2 PIZZAS $5.99
0% MnmtSh kk  2tlG L+ tb
qr grSTrv qncnGGlDs2S $9.99
ErD thtnm Uthn 1vIs
OUR DOUGH IS MADE FRESH DAILY
The Alpha Kappa Chapter of 
Alpha Epsilon Pi 
Congratulates 
The Alpha Deuteron 
Pledge Class 
On Its Initiation
Douglas Brook 
Daniel Cohn 
Issac Levin 
Abraham Levine 
Shalom Lewis
ATTENTION !
Does your organization want to have a booth on the Midway
during Carnival m 1991???
THEN COME TO THE 
FIRST BOOTH 
MEETING
Please come with ideas for an 
overall Carnival theme
Date: Tuesday, November 7th
Time: 8:30 pm
Place: PH 125B
If your booth chairman is unable to make this meeting, 
please send another representative.
Questions or concerns: Please contact Meg Veily, the Midway Chairman, at 621-4610

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
(H
ErrlII jtvG lyltv
Tartans tackle Coast Guard on the road
PRESS PASS
by Katie Culbertson
Don't skimp 
|on safety
! When I told my parents I wanted 
to be a buggy driver, their initial 
Reaction was an emphatic No. 
My mother was concerned about 
Ly safety  my father did not 
want me to drive for a bunch of 
'fraternity guys. Cant you drive 
|for a sorority? he asked.
I finally convinced my mother 
fhat buggy was a completely safe 
Activity. I told my dad that what 
he called a bunch of beer-guz[zling idiots was actually a group 
ofpolite, studious, mild-mannered 
'oung men.
Even though I knew I would be 
)ingfast, I underestimated just 
ihow quickly my buggy could go. 
Saturday morning, I hurtled 
[down the course faster than I had 
lever gone before. My line was 
no squirrels ran out in front 
of me, and I even drove down the 
correct side of the monument. My 
state of mind lingered somewhere 
 between excitement and total fear.
Things were really going great, 
[well, until I crashed.
Stranded in the chute, with the 
jftose of my buggy indented in an 
[unlucky hay bale, I watched as 
:ordes of people crowded around 
e, asking me if I was okay, if 
lything hurt, and if I could feel 
[my fingers and toes. I replied that 
|l was fine. They extricated me 
om the buggy for the rest of the 
iorning.
After Saturday, I hold a new
found appreciation for those safety 
teasures. Loading in the buggy 
iach weekend norning, I grouch 
ibout my uncomfortable harness 
id cumbersome helmet. But I 
11 never complain again, and in 
[he future I will don my safety 
iquipment cheerfully.
Accidents happen all the time, 
specially in the chute, and it is a 
'onder that serious incidents 
iave been avoided for so long a 
eflection on the competence and 
ledication of the safety commitie.
They may seem uptight when 
ley enforce safety standards, and 
ley may inconvenience organi
sations with their requests, but 
inything less than very strict 
nforcement puts drivers at risk 
very time they take their bug[ies down the course.
Buggy is risky  in the back of 
iy mind, I have buried the fact 
|hat a girl was permanently 
aralyzed driving in the 1970s. 
After Saturday morning, I can 
jee how paralysis or serious inLry is possible. More than menlly shaken after my crash, I was 
so a little bruised, and without 
;eeping up to safety standards, 
gs could have been worse, 
fow I am just glad that my orgaization doesnt skimp on safety, 
d I hope that others dont. 
Dont get me wrong  Im not 
Qg to preach, I just want to 
j&press upon the buggy commu% that a few bruises are okay, 
!ut much more isnt. And I want 
prevent organizations from 
coming complacent. Just beluse a group has not had a seri8 *ncident, it cannot take short 
ts on safety.
Meeting with a curb at 35 miles 
fei ^ur is not fun, and drivers 
(e lucky that they are only 
 UP a little. On Saturday, 
jy toes did tingle, my neck was 
,re> and my head did hurt, and I 
f ^ doubt that other drivers have 
that way in the past. And I 
-ueve it takes feeling like that to 
u y appreciate the precautions 
lat prevent a worse scenario.
Tartan Sports Editor Katie
II oertson is a sophomore profeswriting major.
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan football team con
tinued its winning ways Satur
day, beating the Coast Guard 
Academy 2413 to extend its win
ning streak to 12 games and keep 
its playoff drive alive. The Tar
tans entered the game with an 
unblemished 8-0 record and a 
number five rankinginthe NCAA 
Division III South Region polls.
The top four teams  Ferrum, 
Washington & Jefferson, 
Frostburg State and Lycoming 
are also undefeated, so a win over 
Coast Guard was crucial. Al
though the Tartans have the third 
toughest schedule of the top five, 
there is still a chance they could 
miss making the playoffs if the 
top four teams win their remainWere 9-0 and we're just hoping 
that we can go in and beat Case this 
week and let the cards fall as they 
may. 
 Head Coach Rich Lackner
mg games.
Saturday was a game of firsts. 
It was the first meeting between 
the CMU and CGA and the first 
time this season that the Tartans 
have faced the wishbone offense. 
The Bears ground attack gained 
249 yards, but the Tartan defense 
came up with big plays and key 
turnovers to snap the usually 
potent wishbone. The wishbone 
is a run-oriented offense that uses
three running backs.
We knew what was going to 
come at us but they executed re
ally well and we got initial shock, 
said senior defensive back Jack 
OSavage.
You cant have a wishbone and 
a good passing team, too. I think 
their wishbone did a pretty good 
job against us, but we made some 
big turnovers, fumble recoveries 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 13
Keep awav....
Ignatius Sasmlta/Tanan Photo Staff Manager
EDnGohlv YSmt 2tccrIr AtyoG ArD on lII lG on gM- jrhnvwG GrccnD cIS rri rv blGotvyrv lvm YnAAnDGrv plSDmls 
tv 5nGItvy plmtShu glDvnytn MnIIrv jrv on crvnG PaHu prTorhrDn lconI bntGG crvDtSnm l TnvlIs itci r on jtvu 
RnGnDmls. on gM- jrhnv TIlsnm fvmtlvl -vt'nDGts rA 2nvvGsI'lvtl. lyltv l orhnu kyltv. glDvnytn MnIIrv jlG 
'tcrDtrSG. jtvvtvyFaHu EDnGohlv lconI :rSDv GcrDnm oDnn rA on ArSD yrlIG r TS gM- r'nD on rTu UotG jnninvm9G 
lctrv jDlTTnm ST on jrhnvwG GrccnD cIS GnlGrvu f AtvtGonG on GnlGrv jto l aKaH DncrDmu
Soccer wins9CIon road 2-0
CMU blanks Chicago^
in season finale
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
>d i.
The Carnegie Mellon soccer team finished-i'ts, 
1990 season Saturday with a 2-0 victory over the 
University of Chicago. The win raised the Tartans 
overall record to 12-4-1, which includes a final 5^- 
3 mark in the University Athletic Association.
The Tartans impressive season was soured hy 
the fact that they missed the Division III playoff^. 
According to Head Coach Nick Gaudioso, we lost 
to a team goinginto the playoffs. We were basically 
the number five team. We had strength of sched
ule on our side but we lost to Swarthmore, who; 
made it in. If we hadnt played Swarthmore, wej 
probably would have made the playoffs. j
In Saturdays contest, Chicago lived up to 
nickname of the Windy City, as the tempo of; 
game was set by the wind.
If we had won the toss and got the other sidi 
the field, said Gaudioso, they would have had 
Please see SOCCER, page
Volleyball 
ends season 
with loss ~
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Copy Manager
The womens volleyball team wrapped up a 
draining season Tuesday in a tri-match against' 
Grove City and host Washington and Jefferson.
Carnegie Mellon continued to play in a slump 
we havent been able to get out of, said Head 
Coach Charolette Fisher. CMU lost to Grove City 
1115,6-15 and to Washington and Jefferson 11 
15,11-15.
The Tartans beat Washington and Jefferson 
earlier in the season, but were not able to play? 
consistently against their improved opponent. The 
changes in the line-up, which were implemented 
Please see VOLLEYBALL, page 13 jUniversity Rowing Club medals in D.C. regatta
By MARC ROSTON
Special to The Tartan
The Carnegie Mellon Rowing 
Club won two golds, a silver, and 
a bronze medal Saturday at the 
Head of the Occaquon, outside of 
Washington, D.C.
The regatta was a three and a 
quarter mile course, raced against 
the clock. The varsity and novice 
teams competed against others 
from Johns Hopkins, Bucknell, 
West Virginia, Duquesne and 
many others.
The Womens varsity four fin
ished third, with a time of 20:17, 
close behind first place Potomac 
Boat Club. The women beat 
crosstown rivals, Duquesne by
nearly a minute. Duquesne fin
ished fifth.
History was made when the 
lightweight varsity mens eight 
finished second in their event. 
This was the first time the club 
placed in this highly competitive 
division. Sophomore Roderick 
Gibson was quite pleased after 
the race. Dude, we were awe
some! It was the best race of my 
life!
The mens novice four brought 
home the gold in their very close 
race, beating out second-placed 
St. Johns College by only three 
seconds. In the tradition of race 
winners, they attempted to throw 
their coxswain into the river, but 
the state park threat of a $75 fine
In fact, the regatta was bigger and 
more competitive than last year,; and 
CMU received twice as many medals.
controlled their excitement.
Graduate student Dave Greene 
won the gold medal in the Single 
Scull race, beating the second 
place finisher by 17 seconds.
The other races fared well too. 
The varsity womens eight fin
ished fourth, only eleven seconds 
behind William and Mary in third. 
The novice mens eight finished 
sixth out of 19 boats.
The outstanding performances 
by the lightweight varsity and
novice men were much more sig
nificant for three of the rowers. 
Varsity, Ed Miller, and Novices, 
Fritz Knabe and Dave Garrod are 
graduate students who are ineli
gible to row after this season. 
Miller expressed that he was 
thrilled with the success of the 
crew, but disappointed that he 
could no longer compete.
Miller was pleased with his 
performance, especially since this 
was his final year competing in
crew. Im glad that I managed to; 
medal in my last race, he said.
Coach Liz Winter was pleased 
with the spread of medals, as well, 
as with the performance of thej 
mens lightweight team. The! 
lightweight men finally showed 
their true form, she said. She 
added that it is positive fore-i 
shadowing for the future, and that 
the trend should continue.
Winter was very enthusiastic 
about the teams performance. 
The competition here was 
tougher than last year, and our 
crews rowed quite well against 
them. In fact, the regatta wasbigger and more competitive than' 
last year, and CMU received twicej 
as many medals.

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990
Edmonton losing magic as Rangers boast best record
Originally, this season looked 
to-be a promising one for the 
Edmonton Oilers. Instead, itcould 
signal the end of the Edmonton 
dynasty.
" 'Hart Trophy Winner center
 'ilark Messier has been injured 
Since October 16. Since the begin"nlng of his absence, the Oilers 
have lost five games in a row for 
the first time since 1984. In the
 'sime period, they scored only 12 
'' gfials and had a stretch of eight
consecutive scoreless periods.
 Jarri Kurris suprise departure 
to'the Italian Hockey League was 
'probably the Oilers death blow. 
Last season he netted 33 goals 
:&3id no one has made up the dif
ference. It is highly likely that left 
Wing Esa Tikkanen will be leav1 irig the Oilers, possibly before the 
end of the season, further damag
ing their offense.
The 1980s was the decade of 
first the New York Islanders and 
then the Oilers. Now it is 
Edmontons turn to pass the torch 
to someone else.
As the standings show now, the 
team to beat seems to be the New 
York Rangers. They currently 
have the best record (as of Friday) 
in the NHL at 11-3-0, with 22 
points. Ranger goaltending is 
currently second in the league 
with a team goals against average 
of 2.43.
Both the New Jersey Devils and 
the Los Angeles Kings continue 
their chase of the Rangers. The 
Devils are currently in second 
place in the Patrick Division with 
a 8-5-1, 17 points record. The 
Kings are also second in their 
division (931,19 points) to the 
Calgary Flames (10-4-0, 20 
points) who have been playing
THE PUCK 
STOPS HERE
by Allan Bourdius
excellent hockey as of late.
A three-way battle for the top 
spot in the Norris Division is de
veloping between the Chicago 
Blackhawks, the Detroit Red 
Wings, and the St. Louis Blues. 
Chicago is a dramatically im
proved team. Compared to this 
point in the season last year, The 
Blackhawks have allowed 14 
fewer goals. Compared to two 
seasons ago, they have allowed
33 fewer. Clearly, the addition of 
former Norris Trophy Winner 
defense Chris Chelios has con
tributed significantly. Chelios is 
perhaps the best two-way 
defenseman in the league. He is 
also currently in the top ten 
scorers.
The strongest competition in the 
Norris Division is definitely the 
St. Louis Blues. However, if oppo
nents can contain star right wing 
Brett Hull, they have an improved 
chance against the Blues. In 
games where Hull has scored, the 
Blues are 8-1. When Hull has 
been shut out, they are 0-3-1. So 
far, Hull is the leading goal scorer 
with 16.
As it has been the past few 
seasons, the contest in the Adams 
Division is turning out to be be
tween the Boston Bruins and the 
Montreal Canadiens. Bostons
The 1980s was the decade of first 
the Islanders and then the Oilers. 
Now it is Edmontons turn to pass the 
torch to someone else. As the stand
ings show now, the team to beat 
seems to be the New York Rangers.
star defenseman Ray Bourque 
returned from a minor injury af
ter missing four games. Bruin 
coach Mike Milbury says 
Bourques most important role on 
the team is that of a confidencebuilder.
The Buffalo Sabres were fig
ured as the dominating team in 
the Adams this season but they 
are currently stumbling with a 3- 
54 record, good enough for fourth
place in the division. Number one 
gofeltender Darren Puppa 
been faltering as of late and the 
Sabres defense hasnt been hel[ 
ing much. It is likely that they 
will reverse this current trend 
and pass the Hartford Whalers to 
challenge the division leaders 
within the next few weeks.
Allan Bourdius is a sophomore 
applied history major.Giants should whip crippled Colts in tonights match-up
jjor., Pittsburghs return to Monday 
Night Football last Monday 
. jproved to be a return to the magic 
that the Steelers performed on 
the field more than a decade ago. 
The Steelers totally dominated 
the weakening Los Angeles Rams, 
^ humiliating them 41-10 at Three 
Rivers Stadium.
Of late, referees around the 
3S$tional Football League have 
^continued to fall under criticism 
T-ToC members of the league, in
cluding players, coaches, and even 
, Frank Gifford.
NFL Commissioner Paul 
Tagliabue cant do anything about 
what Gifford says, but he slapped 
the entire league with an order 
not to criticize officials or be fined. 
Nice, dictatorial touch.
' % the NFC....
With the Rams loss, the San 
: Francisco 49ers have all but won 
their division. The Giants appear
NFL NEWS
by Dave Martin
to have a commanding lead over 
the NFC East, and the Chicago 
Bears rule the Midway again, 
looking for the division title.
Now one must look for three 
wild card teams. Right now only 
the Washington Redskins appear 
to have a wild card position in 
hand, but could easily lose that 
hold over the coming weeks.
In the AFC....
No division is wrapped up yet, 
and none are even close. The 
Bengals have a shaky lead over
the Steelers and the Oilers of one 
game. Miami and Buffalo have 
won the east  now they have to 
figure out which of the two will 
take the title.
And out in the West, the situa
tion is even murkier than the 
Central. The Raiders, before yes
terday, held a two game lead over 
the Chiefs, with Denver and Se
attle only a game behind them, 
and San Diego a half-game be
hind the Broncos and Seahawks. 
Its anybodys division, but the 
next couple of weeks, combined 
with the outcome of two of 
yesterdays games should clear 
up that mess.
Oh, no not the picks!
Tonights matchup between the 
New York Giants and the India
napolis Colts looks like a tune-up 
game for the Giants, and one more 
lesson in the art of playing foot
ball for the Colts.
Tonights matchup between the New 
York Giants and the Indianapolis Colts 
looks like a tune-up game for the Gi
ants, and one more lesson in the art 
of playing football for the Colts.
As the Giants come into the 
game, they lead the league in de
fense, against the Colts poor of
fense. The Colts only advantage? 
Being at home. And this isnt a 
great advantage, as the fans boo 
Eric Dickerson every time he 
touches the ball. But if he were to 
score a touchdown against the 
Giants, the boos, or at least most
of them, would end. I doubt they 
will end tonight though. Giants 
27, Colts 10.
Chicago hosts the up and com
ing Atlanta Falcons Sunday, and 
the matchup should prove to be a 
telling one for both clubs. Bears 
23, Falcons 14. Denver squares 
off against division rival San Di
ego, where I see the Chargers
winning again, 34-28. The Raiders should dominate the Packers 
24-13. New England at home over 
the struggling Colts by 10. Miami 
over the Jets again, but in a more 
high-scoring affair, 34-20. Di 
over hapless Minnesota, 382L 
The Giants to tackle the 1 
23-17. Buffalo should destroy 
Phoenix, but probably wont34-24. Kansas City seeks revenge 
on the Seahawks to regain some 
composure in the AFC West, 27-
10. Tampa over the Saints 34-20. 
The 49ers take on the Dallas 
Cowboys, once a matchup between 
powers, now a whipping for 
Texans, 38-13.
Dave Martin is a freshman psy
chology major.
Nkwp 2fk
683-2525
PKF MVRkq kLVu _1kBkq0#
OPEN 11:00 am to 1:00 am DAILY
8 CUT  $5.50 $.75/EA TOPPING
12 CUT $7.00 $1.25/EA TOPPING
UR 1- 51-MVU 2fk E1
!,uO4
ALL INGREDIENTS MADE FRESH DAILY
25 MINUTE DELIVERY - LIMITED
DELIVERY AREA (WEATHER PERMITTING)
V >v,
3? 2V.
$2.00 OFF ANY LARGE PIZZA
ONE COUPON PER ORDER
Champs
on Forward A sports bar
5832 Forward Ave (Squirrel Hill) 
only minutes from campus
Monday 
10 cent Peel & Eat Shrimp 
Tuesday  Mexican Nite 
$1 Nachos  Mex Drink Specials 
Wednesday  Ladies Nite 
Special Discounts for Ladies
Thursday  Wing Nite 
25 cents Each  Pittsburgh's 
biggest, meatiest, and tastiest 
wings
An upscale saloon for an upscale university
The Stars Are Out All Day!
Americas premier theme 
park in Williamsburg, Va. 
is conducting auditions for 
over 250 singers, dancers, 
musicians, variety artists, 
actors, technicians, and 
supervisors. You could be 
part of the magic that truly 
makes Busch Gardens an 
entertainment experience.
So get your act together 
and shine at our 1991 
auditions.iverst yjonlrTHE OLD COUNTRY
WILLIAMSBURG. VA.
An Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H
Audition Date:
PITTSBURGH
PENNSYLVANIA
Tuesday, Nov. 13, 1990 
3:00-7:00 p.m. 
Point Park College 
Lawrence Hall 
Studio #4
Auditions: ltolVfcmins, For additional information call
1-800-253-3302.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 19903
Football cruises past Coast Guard to remain undefeated
FOOTBAII, from page li
and interceptions. When you live 
by the option, you have a tendency 
to die by the option, too, and that 
hurt them.
They ran the bone and they 
didnt throw very much and they 
'didnt throw very well, said se
nior defensive back John 
Riesmeyer. It was our plan to try 
to stop the run and make them 
throw. When they tried to throw, 
*we made them pay.
Tartan rushers, led by senior 
halfback Scott Barnyak, who 
shattered his own single-season 
rushing record with 129 yards on 
the day, combined for 313 yards 
and two touchdowns. But the 
game was won through the air. 
Tartan passers threw for 118
"Right now were concerned with fin
ishing 10-0. Thats all we can con
trol. We cant control whos going to 
vote to put us in the playoffs. 
 Senior quarterback Bill Snyder
Starting at their own 28, the Tar
tans ran the ball sixteen consecu
tive times, chewing more than 
eight minutes off the clock.
A key 11-yard run by Bamyak 
on third-and-seven gave the TarWe knew what was going to 
come at us, but they executed 
really well and we got an initial 
shock, said OSavage.
After battling to a scoreless first 
quarter, the Tartans went to 
work. On their first drive of the 
second quarter, Snyder engi
neered a 14-play, 90-yard drive
that began at the Tartan 10 
yards. Senior quarterback Bill yardline. The drive was keyed by 
Snyder entered the game need- a 33-yard pass from Snyder to 
ing just 23 yards to reach the Barnyak on third-and-16 that
P,444-yard career mark. He threw 
for 65 yards to surpass 2,000, and 
now needs just five yards to move 
into sixth place on the Tartans 
all-time passing list.
Theyre a very aggressive de
fense, said senior wide receiver 
Wayne Carson. We ran the plays 
that were adverse to a pursuing 
defense, like counter plays and 
things like that to get them off 
balance and stop their pursuit a 
little bit.
Bear quarterbacks had less 
success. They combined for a mere 
44 yards through the air, most of 
those yards coming in the fourth 
quarter. Starting quarterback 
Kevin Talley managed to com
pleted only one pass for six yards 
while throwing two interceptions.
gave the Tartans first down on 
the CGA10.
Four plays later, Bamyak took 
the ball in from one yard out and 
Joe Schwerha booted the extra 
point to give the Tartans a 7-0 
lead with 9:36 left in the half.
The games most exciting play 
came on CMUs next possession. 
The Tartans took over on their 
own 38, but a penalty on thirdand-six gave the Tartans fourth 
down and 11 at their own 47 
yardline. The Tartans lined up in 
punt formation, and on a designed 
fake, punter Wayne Carson threw 
the ball 21 yards to OSavage, 
who eluded tacklers and 
scrambled 32 yards for a touch
down.
We designed the fake this week
to go to Brian, said OSavage. 
But he got held up on the line 
and they were rushing ten guys 
so no one covered me, I was wide 
open. Wayne saw me and laid 
the ball up and I was waiting for 
it. Then there was just one guy 
to beat. I used to be a quarterback 
in high school, so Ive still got a 
few moves left.
Schwerhas extra point made 
the score 14-0 with 6:13 left in 
the half. But CGA answered back 
with a score if its own. Behind a 
strong rushing attack, the Bears 
marched downfield 56 yards in 
10 plays. The drive was keyed by 
rushes of 14 yards by Talley, 13 
yards by fullback Richard 
Homer, and 11 yards by haflback 
David Dawdy.
With less than two minutes 
left in the half, Horner took the 
ball in from four yards out to put 
CGA on the board. Jamie Roths 
extra point cut the Tartan lead 
to 14-7 and gave the Bears mo
mentum going into the locker 
room.
The momentum was short
lived, however, as the Tartan 
offense put together its most 
impressive, and time-consuming 
drive to start the second half.
out CMUs scoring and give them tans on top 24-13. , ~ ; *
a 24-7 lead with 10 minutes left in If youre on the first team or 
the game. youre on the third team or; the
The Bears next possession fifth team, youre part of ,this 
ended when Talleys pitch to Curt football team and when we allow 
Knudsen was picked off by points, we allow points as a uryt. 
tans first-and-goal at the CGA Riesmeyer at the CMU 45. The I was a little disappointed that we 
two. Two plays later, fullback Fran Tartan offense took over with ex- didnt shut them down in that 
Bellante took the ball in and cellent field position. fourth quarter like we shquld
Schwerha added the extra point Junior Sam Mangano stepped have, said Lackner. 
to give the Tartans a 21-7 lead into the game at quarterback and The Tartans play their last 
with 6:55 leftinthe third quarter, led the Tartan offense downfield game of the regular season SjatThe two teams traded posses- to the CGA 20. The Bearsdefense urday as they travel to Cleveland 
sions for the remainder of the held, backing the Tartans up four to take on Case Western Reserve, 
quarter. The Bears held the ball yards on the next two plays and on A win would give the Tartans the 
for less than three minutes the fourth-and-eight, Schwerha came inaugural UAA championship, 
entire quarter, gaining just 38 on to attempt a 41-yard field goal. More importantly, however/,the 
yards and turning the ball over His kick fell just short and CGA Tartans must win to be congidonce. The Tartans racked up an took over with less than six min- ered for the playoff picture, 
impressive 92 yards, all of it on utes left in the game. Right now were concerned
the ground. Freshman quarterback Adam withfinishingl0-0, saidSnycjer.
On their second possession of Wasserman entered the game to Thats all we can control, ^e 
the fourth quarter, the Tartans replace Talley, and engineered a cant control whos going tovotfe to 
stmck again. After an intercep- 53-yard scoring drive. Wasserman put us in the playoffs. Weve got to 
tion by defensive back John Fratto succeeded where Talley had failed, go out there do the job and beat 
stifled a Bears drive, the Tartans completing a 15-yard pass to Lee Case.
took over at their own 47. A key Boone on his first play and a key Were 9-0 and were just Kojp16-yard pass from Snyder to 10-yard strike to Dawdy on third- ing that we can go in and Heat 
Bamyak on third-and-10 kept the and-10. Six plays later, Case this week and let the cards
Wasserman rambled 25 yards for fall as they may, said Lackner. 
CGAs second touchdown. Game time is 1:30. The gaifte
The two-point conversion failed, will be broadcast at 1:15 pm Jon 
and the game ended with the Tar- WRCT, 88.3 FM.
drive alive and gave the Tartans 
first down at the CGA 22.
Three plays later, Schwerha 
booted a 34-yard field goal to round
National Scoreboard
qkUf1qk E11U:k Vk5-V
Pittsburgh 21, Atlanta 9 
Washington 41, Detroit 38*
San Francisco 24, Green Bay 20 
Philadelphia 48, New England 20 
Kansas City 9, LA Raiders7 
NY Jets 24, Dallas 9
New Orleans 21, Cincinnati 7 
Miami 23, Phoenix 3 
Buffalo 42, Cleveland 0 
LA Rams 17, Houston 13 
Chicago 26, Tampa Bay 6 
San Diego 31, Seattle 14 
?overtime
Tonight on Monday Night Football, 
the undefeated New York Giarite 
take on the struggling 
Indianapolis Colts in Indianapolis. 
The game airs at 9 pm on ABC.
Scores courtesy of WRCT AP wife.
Coach Fisher praises team for determination throughout season
VOLLEYBALL, from page 11
because sophomore Lisa Leonardo 
was unable to travel, may have 
caused problems on Tuesday.
Looking back on the season 
overall, Fisher noted, In the be
ginning the team was very enthu
siastic. It was a really demanding 
season because we had to travel 
every weekend, said Fisher. [We 
were] a little burned out in the 
end.
Fisher, in her first year as head 
coach, was pleased with the teams
acceptance. I was new to them. I 
think they were very under
standing and cooperative and 
gave me a chance to do things my 
way.
Were all looking forward to 
next year. [There is] a lot of talent 
on the team, said Fisher. The 
team is young, and with another 
years experience the Tartans 
could do well next season.
Fisher had only good things to 
say about her team. Senior cap
tain Nicole Hanak played very
[The numbers dont] show what a 
good team they were. Theres more to 
it than that. 
 Head Coach Charlotte Fisher
consistently all year in all aspects
 serving, defense, blocking, and 
hitting. Sophomore Ann Feng also 
played very well as a back-row 
player and earned many compli
ments from other teams and 
coaches. Junior Lisa Devlin and 
sophomore Jennifer New did very 
well as the teams new setters.
The Tartans greatly missed
sophomore Lisa Leonardo in the 
middle of the season and sopho
more Elizabeth Rowlands at the 
end of the seasondue to injury. 
Sophomore Heather Thompson 
sparked the team with her excite
ment on the court or by getting 
big defensive saves.
Freshman Wendy Waskoe did 
not play much during the year 
but gained the coachs respect with 
her determination.
She needs some more court 
time out there, said Fisher, before
she becomes very good. The bench 
also played an important rolelby 
being ready at any time and play
ing when the starters were in
jured.
Fisher concluded her praise of 
the team by saying, [The num
bers dont] show what a good team 
they were. Theres more to it th[an 
that.
The team will be practicing; in 
the off- season and may run a co
ed tournament for Carnegie 
Mellon students.
Tartans whitewash Chicago 2-0 in season finale; finish 12-4-1
SOCCER, from page 11
just as tough a time getting the 
ill out of their end of the field. 
Despite fighting the wind, the 
Tartans notched the first score of 
the afternoon. Sophomore 
Terence Sibiya split a pair of 
Maroon defenders to hit junior 
Young Kang, the Tartans lead
ing scorer. Kang rocketed the ball 
mto the top comer of the net for a
Throughout the Intramural 
season, the IM department main
tains a point system, awarding 
teams points for their perfor
mance in Intramural activities. 
At the end of the year, a trophy is 
awarded to the team with the 
:niost points.
The Intramural department 
devised a system in 1986 of fig
uring points.
Individual team standings are 
ased on the skill rating of the 
8Port, the rating of the league, the 
number of teams in the league, 
and the rating of the finish of the 
team.
The formula used is (skill rat
1-0 Tartan lead.
The wind kept the Tartans from 
scoring, but it took away the 
Maroons best scoring opportu
nity as well. Chicago caught 
freshman goalkeeper Dave 
Shapiro out of position, but the 
shot carried over the top crossbar.
The Tartans went into the sec
ond half with a 1-0 lead and the 
wind at their backs; however,
ing) x (league rating) x (# of teams 
in league) x (finish rating).
A skill rating is assigned to each 
sport on a scale of one to five. 
Football, for example, rates a five, 
while soccer rates a four, co-rec 
volleyball a three, tennis a two, 
and chess rates a one.
Majors, Intermediates, and mi
nors are all assigned a league 
rating. Majors is rated 10, inter
mediates is rated three, while 
minors is rated one.
The number of teams in a league 
is the number of teams in the 
league in which the team is com
peting (majors, intermediates, or 
minors.)
Chicago held the Tartans until 
late in the game. With less than 
15 minutes to play, Kang scored 
on a header off a CMU comer 
kick. The goal was Kangs 15th of 
the season, establishing a new 
team record. Kang had an oppor
tunity for a third goal but had a 
bad angle by the time he cleared 
the Chicago defense.
Theyre a struggling team,
said Gaudioso, but theyre young 
and theyve got a new coach. T 
think the UAA will get more com
petitive in the next couple of 
years.
Despite being an easy Tartan 
win, the game took its toll on the 
players. A bad knee forced junior 
sweeper Alan Horn to leave the 
game in the secondhalf, andjunior 
Rob Schaeffer was injured in a
cheap shot with less than a minute 
left in the game.
The guy wasnt even going for 
the ball, said Schaeffer. He just 
wanted to go for the hack.
The Tartans also set or tied 
several team records in 1990, set
ting marks for consecutive wins, 
most wins, and consecutive shut
outs. The Tartans were one game 
away from the record for most
shutouts in a season.
Despite missing the playoffs, 
Gaudioso is pleased with th'e 
team. How can you not be happy 
with a 12-4 record? In the last 
two years, if we had a home field, 
wed have had better records; this 
year, we got a lot of big wins.
Im disappointed about the 
playoffs, but well be strong next 
year.
IM Team Standings
The finish rating is the score 
given to first, second, third, or 
fourth place in the league. First 
place receives one point, second 
receives two-thirds of a point, and 
third and fourth receive one-third 
of a point. Third and fourth place 
receive a finish rating of 0 if there 
are not more than six teams in a 
league.
A sample score tabulation fol
lows:
Sigma Alpha Epsilon placed 
first in intermediate touch foot
ball, for which they received 225 
points, 
skill rating = 5 
league rating = 3
# of teams in league = 15
finish rating = 1
(5) x (3) x (15) x (1) = 225.
The team standings of this year 
so far follow. The standings are 
based on the results from foot
ball, cross country, tennis, golf, 
and co-rec volleyball.
Please note that these standings 
may change significantly as the 
year progresses. Also note that 
the teams below are not the only 
teams entered in IM activities; 
they are the only teams that have
received points.HKu UDrelvG84t
Hu :nl Uonl 2tK44HFu kU1ZO
Pu 5Dnnv kcnGPFZHOu MtlGhl
Ku ptyhl kITol VTGtIrvPPOHu 0nIl UlS 0nIlK
Fu gDSvco :SvcoP44HZu MlD'nIrSG MtGAtGOZ
Ou BpkH,4-pp glDvnytn57
u 2t kITol 0nIlHZFH8u ptyhl UlS 5lhhlF/
Zu YrIIs lvconDGHZHH,u kpkKK
8u q2 grhTIntrvGHO42trvnnDGKK
,u 0nIl -TGttrvHP4P4u NrDGnhnvK4
,u rrtcGHHFPHu :rvnonlmGHF
H4u 2ot BlTTl UonlH4Z
HHu Uonl tH4KgrhTtInm s
HPu 5pfkH44KATIE CULBERTSON
UAA plvmtvyG
MVqwp p1ggV
inyD hhU2Up1LVk
RochesterAt101211-5
Brandis5?01010-9-2
Emory?01015-6
Washington430812-5CMU3306114-1
Case Reserve?4042-12NYUn113-9-1
Chicago05111-11-1
E11U:k
UVkMbU2Up1LVk
CMU30069-0*
Rochester22044-4
Case Reserve21023-5
Washington12026-3
Chicago03000-8
* Carnegie Mellon hangs on to its lead in the UAA, 
remaining undefeated through nine weeks.
basketball soccer football crew rugby lacrosse baseball field hockey swimming intramurals volleyball 
tennis golf wrestling cross country track buggy ice hockey basketball soccer football crew rugby lacrosse 
baseball field hockey swimming intramurals volleyball tennis golf wrestling cross country track buggy 
ice hockey basketball soccer football crew rugby lacrosse baseball field hockey swimming intramurqls 
volleyball tennis golf wrestling cro^^ryjg^ tr^Umgg^c^j^c}^abketball soccer football crew rugby 
lacrosse baseball field hockey tanAsi fflwjm golf wrestling cross country track
buggy ice hockey basketball socc  jWtomnmj nigGJ IWn&^Fbaseball field hockey swimming 
intramurals volleyball tennis golf wrestling cross country track buggy ice hockey basketball soccer 
football crew rugby lacrosse basebal{^lcM^^0S^ir^^^fl^ft^Mrals volleyball tennis golf wrestling 
cross country track buggy ice hocke^^^f^al^^Mk^^a^pr^^ugby lacrosse baseball field hockey 
swimming intramurals volleyball tennis golf wrestling cross country track buggy ice hockey basketball 
soccer football crew rugby lacrosse baseball field hockey swimming intramurals volleyball tennis golf 
wrestling cross country track buggy ice hockey basketball soccer football crew rugby lacrosse baseball 
field hockey swimming intramurals volleyball tennis golf wrestling cross country track buggy ice hockey 
basketball soccer football crew rugby lacrosse baseball field hockey swimming intramurals volleyball 
tennis golf wrestling cross country track buggy ice hockey basketball soccer football crew rugby lacrosse 
baseball field hockey swimming intramurals volleyball tennis golf wrestling cross country track buggy
If you would like to write for Tartan Sports, please stop by Skibo 50 or 
call x2111 and ask for Katie or Jason.

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990
IM StandingsIM News
kg/-VU:kUSS Carnegie12 Beta D01
The Flintstones04
fqUVMV0fkUVPika A12 fqUVMV0fkUV
NORTHMfq1pDIVISION A
Green Aces20DU A10
Kill Shot20 DIVISION AGSIA 110
3D02 Sig Tau Slammers40 Theta XI T02
Armadillo & Sons02 CGSOl22 Azzuri11
Welchaholics22
SOUTHMathletes12 DIVISION B
SAE A21 Tower of Mudge03 Theta Xi X20
Horsemen21DTD A01
Pika02 DIVISION BThe Rust Boys01
Mech E Overgrads11 USS Mellon21 Pink Torpedoes11
DTD A20
Mfq1pRemedlators21 DIVISION C
Pika B02 ATO20
DIVISION ADynamite02 Phi Kap A10
Sig Tau20X01
Hugo20 DIVISION CDomestic Violence02
Green Aces II11 Hedgehogs21
Eeslx02 SAE C12 DIVISION D
Pilam02 Green Aces21 KSA A01
Jack D. Gralps03 Ballbusters00
DIVISION BKDR12 Zoo A01
Phi Kap40Pterodactyls20
USS Carnegie11 DIVISION D
Theta Xi11 ASA B-Team30 DIVISIONE
DU A01 Trojans B21 Doherty Dynasty11
SAE E03 Zoo A21 The Lax Men00
Doherty Dinosaurs03 Pika20
L1VR:kPilam B03 SAE A02
MkY1pDIVISION EMfq1p
Phi Kap A30
Networkers30 Trojans A21 DIVISION A
Spycho11 Fringe B12 GSIA II01
Barcrawlers31 Sudsuckers03 Sig Tau11
The Blocks World21 Pioneers22 SAE B2-0
Mech. Eng.13Prophylactics01
KSA22 DIVISION F
Robotics A04 Jolly Rogers40 DIVISION B
KSA12 Star & Crescents10
fqUVMV0fkUVTheta XI21 Dragon Balls WTHM AO1
Slg Tau Hammers12 Green Aces II10
DIVISION ASDG03 Phi Kap B01
SAE A21
Volleyball Club40 DIVISION GDIVISION C
The Working Sets12 Black Rain40 KDR21
High Bailers22 Dragon Ball WTHM20 Bio Degradables10
Fringe A03 SAE B21 The Blades01
Lust12 Mudge B-l03 SAES01
Krlstygasm Not03
DIVISION BDIVISION D
Theta Xi30 DIVISION HTrojans20
Robotics B22 CGS0230 Dragon Balls00
Networkers31 SDC04 Pilam01
Wombats From Hell12 Pilam A30 The Pollutants01
Kalvln & the Hobs12 Phi Kap B21
Marybelle C-Squad03 Tudor Roaches03 DIVISIONE
Zoo B10
DIVISION CDIVISION 1Top Bong11
Six Pack Attack30 Dream Team30 USS Carnegie00
Beta30 Delta Gamma11 PsyclonesO1
BYOB12 A Phi 011
Mathletes21 DU A03 DIVISION F
KSA03Tired Ones10
Melting Pot03 p1ggVKSA B00
CIA00
DIVISION DMkY1pDU B01
The West21 Theta Xi21
The Bumping Lemmas30 Mech. Eng.21 DIVISION G
ASA A-Team31 Real Mellon11 Pioneers01
One 14 One Item Pizza
only
$5.00
FOUR STAR PIZZA
Apple Sauce 
Garcoyles 
Theta XI B 
The Governors
DIVISION H 
DTD B 
USS Mellon 
EPP
Slg Tau Slammers 
Black Rain
WOMEN ONLY 
Theta
Other Team 
Phi Kap
Morewood Donner 
bkUV 211
MkY1p
Sperm Whales 
Sudsuckers 
USS Carnegie 
USS Mellon
Mfq1p
Theta Xi
Ten Feet Under
SAE
Zoo
Green Aces
CIA
Pika
Compiled by 
KATIE CULBERTSON
Fast Free Delivery
10 Minute Pick Up Service
PRICES SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE SALES TAX
8Ka4F44
4740 BAUM BLVD. -OAKLAND
p1ggV MkBVa-2 5kMVp
All minors make-up games will 
be played next Monday in 
Gesling Stadium.
6:30  Prophylactics/Sig Tau, 
Bio-Degradabies/Blades 
7:30  Dragon Bulls A/Star & 
Crescents, GSIA/SAE B 
8:30  Dragon Bulls B/Pi 
Lam, KSA B/CIA 
9:30  ZOO B/USS Carnegie, 
Phi Kap B/Green Aces II
SPORTS IN SEASON
Water Polo
Commissioner 
Tom Fabian, x8371 
The water polo championship 
games will be played today and 
tomorrow.
Please chack the IM bulletin 
board for standings and playoff 
schedules.
Soccer
Commissioners
Majors  Scott Mills, x5308
IntermediateJohn Supp, x8423
Minors  Sujit Bhattacharya,
x4084
Women Only  Kris Pasqualin, 
x5978
Please check the IM bulletin 
board for team standings and 
match schedules.
Please also check the schedule 
of make-up games for minors, 
divisions A and B. All games will 
be played on Flagstaff Hill and at 
Gesling Stadium.
Six Person Volleyball
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Schedules and standings are 
posted on the Intramural bulletin 
board.
Racquetball
Commissioner 
Tom Murphy, x8424 
Schedules are complete and can 
be picked up in the Intramural 
office.
Play all matches as scheduled 
and report scores to the Intramu
ral office.
Bowling
Commissioner 
Kris Pasqualin, x5978 
Schedules are out and can be
picked up in the IM office. Matches 
will be held on Saturday morn
ings at Forward Lanes. Please 
report winning scores to the com
missioner.
Chess
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
IM chess schedules can be 
picked up in the Intramural office. 
Please play all the matches as 
scheduled.
Team Table Tennis
Commissioner 
Jon Wei, x8354 
League schedules can be picked 
up in the IM office.
Please report all winning scores 
to the Intramural office or to the 
commissioner.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Three-Person Volleyball
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm. The schedules for threeperson volleyball will be ready 
next week.
Backgammon
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm.
Bridge
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm.
See page 13 for overall intramu
ral team standings.
Compiled by 
KATIE CULBERTSON
Classifieds
Housing
Short Term Shadyside Inn 
Apartment Suites. Elegantly 
furnished, well appointed, Studio 
1 & 2 bedroom suites, fully 
equipped kitchen. Includes free 
cable (HBO), phone, parking, 
linens. One block to Walnut St. 
shops. From $41 per day. Daily 
& weekly rate available. 441- 
4444.
Jobs
Activists, Environmentalists: 
Work 3 days a week, 1:30-10:30 
pm, and earn $165-$200 per 
week. Clean Water'Action, 765- 
3053. Ask for Dion.
Fast Fundraising Program 
$1000 in just one week. Earn up 
to $1000 for your campus 
organization. Plus a chance at 
$5000 more! This program 
works! No investment needed. 
Call 1-800-932-0528, ext. 50.
Earn $500$1500 part time 
stuffing envelopes in your home. 
For free information, send a self 
addressed, stamped envelope to: 
P.O. Box 81953, Dept. P 115, 
Albuquerque, NM, 87198.
$15.00 to $20.00 per hour: Parttime campus sales rep. Call 1- 
800-472-3782. Graduate 
Services.
Earn $2500 and Free.Spring 
Break Trips to Bahamas, 
Jamaica as part-time Campus 
Rep for Spring Break Travel 1- 
800-638-6786.
Healthy Womenages 18-37 
(34 for smokers) needed for oral 
contraceptive study at MageeWomens Hospital. One year 
commitment. Reimbursement. 
For details call 647-4259 (
Mon.Fri.).
Attention: Fraternities, Sororities, 
Clubs, and Individuals. Trip 
organizers wanted for fantastic Ski 
and Sun Tours. Earn cash commis
sions and/or go for free. Call the #1 
company in college travel, Moguls 
Ski and Sun Tours, Inc., 1-800-666- 
4857.
Mothers HelperSquirrel Hill. 3  
1/2 year old and infant. 4-5 days, 
hours between 12 and 8pm. 681- 
0605.
Local advertising firm seeks 
talented commission sales staff. Call 
Todd at (412)687-7488.
Campus Reps  individual or 
student organization  needed to 
promote our Spring Break Packages 
on campus. Free trips plus commis
sion. Call Campus Marketing. 1- 
800-423-5264.
Services
Stunguns: legal, powerful protec
tion; Teargas: attacker is rendered 
helpless; Guns; Martial Arts. 
Attention: college students, young 
adults Marys Shoppe. 835- 
2204.
Wake n Bake!! Spring Break in 
Jamaica/Cancun from $429.00!! 
Organize group travel free!! Early 
birds get free T-shirt! 1-800-426- 
7710.
Parties *** Parties *** Parties  
We have everything for your party 
at Papermart  One Stop Party 
Shopping. Stroll down Morewood 
Avenue to Baum Boulevard. Theme 
decorations. Lots of fun doodads 
and fantastic la-de-dah. Gag gifts 
and fake vomit. Great greeting 
cards. 681-8900.
Collegiate Express Connection 
offers Thanksgiving service. 
Philadelphia, $38. E. Orange, NJ, 
$48. New York City, $48. Allen
town, $46. Harrisburg, $38. King 
of Prussia, $38. Reading, $49. 
Roundtrip fares. Valid student ID. 
Call Collegiate Express Connec
tion at (412)687-7488.
***Low Student Fares***AYH 
Passes^EuraDF^sses-'^^ravelBocte-"^ 
All to be found at Forum Travel. 
Visit us at 4608 Winthrop St. (off 
South Craig) or call us at 681 - 
4099.
Miscellaneous
Adoption  Married professional 
couple (shes CMU grad) want 
baby to love. Counseling, ex
penses available. Legal, confiden
tial. Call collect: (412)885-2470.
Having a baby? ... or know 
someone who is? Maybe theyre 
not ready for parenthood right 
now. Private adoption can offer an 
intimate and personal alternative. 
It gives the birth mother the 
chance to meet and know us, a 
happily married couple looking 
forword to hot chocolate, bedtime 
stories, good night kisses and trips 
to the zoo.
We can offer emotional 
support and a cozy place to stay if 
needed. We can legally pay 
medical expenses. Were friendly 
and easy to talk with, so call 
collect anytime (412)421-8997.
For Sale
1985 Subaru GL 43,000 miauto., A/C, P/W, next to CMU, 
Best Offer  Call 687-8730.
Please send Classifieds to The 
Tartan, Box 17, Carnegie 
Mellon University, Pittsburgh 
PA 15213. Call 268-21U for 
more information.

---------------------------------------------------

rab nraranpn rara
,/olume 85, Issue 9The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania9 November 1990
{lIIDrrh mlvcnDG et'n 
ontD jls r DrTotnG 
t glDvnytn MnIIrv
NICOLE BROCKMANN I 77  71 7 7NICOLE BROCKMANN
tan News Editor
hey say it takes two to tango, 
fell, that wasnt really a probthis weekend, when teams 
n universities such as Ohio 
te, Perm State, and the CathoJniversity of America stepped 
to tango, foxtrot, and waltz 
ir way to the CMU Ballroom 
ice Festival.
he competition, which ran 
n Friday to Sunday, featured 
kshops and exhibitions by lodancers as . well as regular 
its of competition. The 
negie Mellon Ballroom Dance 
b sent 16 of its members to the 
nt.
mong the dancers who placed 
phe 34 heats were CIT gradustudents Franz Coetzee and 
therine Peters, CIT senior Jeff 
senfeld, and MCS graduate 
Jdent Vijay Balkrishna. 
[.Competitive dancing in the fesil was broken down into three 
isions: social, American, and 
^national. The social division, 
uch has no dance syllabus or 
lired figures within individual 
ices, included the charcha, the 
jpg, the foxtrot, the waltz, and 
 rhumba.
fhe American and the internaial divisions were further 
>ken down into Latin and 
jooth categories, 
pe American smooth dances 
re the foxtrot, the tango, the
If you don't believe that you're look
ing good, no one else believes you're 
looking good. 
 Aki Ohshima, 
president, CMU Ballroom Dance Club
regular waltz, and the Viennese 
waltz; the American Latin dances 
were the mambo, the cha-cha, the 
swing, and the rhumba.
The international smooth 
dances were the foxtrot, the waltz, 
the quickstep, and the tango; the 
international Latin dances were 
the cha-cha, the jive, the samba, 
and the bolero.
Although some of the same 
dances appear in both American 
and international categories, 
there are stylistic differences be
tween the divisions; for example, 
in the American style, partners 
are allowed to step away from 
each other, while in the interna
tional style, partners must remain 
in constant contact.
Both the American and inter
national divisions featured becompetition.
People who compete generally 
try to.be at least four-dancers, 
said festival coordinator Cindy 
Wood, meaning that couples try 
to be well-versed in all four dances
in a category. Competitors arent judges.
able to bring their own music 
along with them, and therefore 
must adapt their steps to what
ever music is provided.
Some single dancers ended up 
being paired with partners theyd 
never met from other schools, 
which caused problems in some 
cases. Many groups, though, try 
to get their members used to rap
idly switching from partner to 
partner before the competition 
rolls around.
It depends on the person, too, 
said Jeff Rosenfeld, a member of 
the Carnegie Mellon Ballroom 
Dance Club. Some people arejust 
beautiful to dance with  either 
they just have natural ability or 
they practice a lot. In the club, we 
encourage people to switch part
ners. Sometimes well even stop
ginner and advanced levels of the lesson and have people change
kr'n InA$ glorItc -vt'nDGts rA khnDtcl GSmnvG MlDtl NlIIlolv lvm tcolDm 0rDrv mlvcn on colacolu 
kr'n$ 0kqgV kMVfgk! ArSvmnD Yrov BrvrT lvm 0nvtGn USvvraNlDmtvy nCott on rInDru
partners.
But theres more to the art of 
ballroom dancing than just the 
types of dance. Costumes also play 
a large role in creating an appear
ance which will impress the
While men generally wear tux
edos, women opt for the more 
elaborate. According to Wood, a 
simple ballroom dancing dress can 
cost about $100, but dresses can 
range in price to $1,000 or more.
I bought a dress in Hong Kong 
which cost me around $250. Had 
I bought the same dress in the
are few and far between, said 
Wood. Further, dresses are gen
erally usable either for smooth or 
for Latin competition; the differ
ences in style between the two 
divisions are too great to allow 
adaptability of costume.
Both men and women dancers 
wear special shoes, which are very
United States, it would have cost lightweight, fit snugly, and are 
me about $700 or $800, she said, very flexible. Most are made of 
Unlike in England, where ball- leather, and all have suede botroom dancing is a thriving art, toms to give greater traction on 
shops which will make ballroom the dance floor, 
dance dresses in the United States The suede soles, which wear
kr'n$ 1otr pln -vt'nDGts GSmnv Urh Mlir mlvcnm Gr hSco ol otG AnIIrj GSmnvG erinm ol on jlG Dstvy r 
Gn lv nvmSDlvcn DncrDmu
kII TorrG s Uk0 01gBpUk0VUlDlv 2orr VmtrD
out about every two months, must 
be brushed often to remove dust 
and other particles which may 
mat the suede and cause the 
dancer to slip. The shoes generally 
cost about $80.
The shoes are regulation  
theyre the only thing thats re
quired at this competition, said 
Wood. Otherwise, women can 
wear cocktail dresses and men 
can wear suits.
Poise and attitude are also im
portant in creating a good im
pression. If you dont believe 
youre looking good, no one els^ 
believes youre lookinggood, said 
Aki Ohshima, a third-year PhD 
student in electrical and chemical 
engineering, and the president of 
the CMU Ballroom Dance Club.
Lessons can also be pretty 
costly. Members of the club pay 
only $2 per lesson, but according 
to the clubs teacher, Mary 
Kellner, outside lessons run on 
the average of $50 to $100 an 
hour.
The club began when one of its 
founders, Ayami Ogura, began 
calling up people whom she knew 
liked ballroom dance to try to set 
up a carpool to go to local dance 
halls. Since then, the organiza
tion has grown tremendously, at
tracting many new members  
and keeping them.
The competition marks the 
clubs growth from just a few 
people two summers ago to a 
thriving organization which now 
has more than 50 dues-paying 
members, according to Rosenfeld.
Organizing a festival like this 
Please see BALLROOM, page L4

---------------------------------------------------

Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer
KUNST BAKFRV
uuuu
PITTSBURGH
Oakland builds its 
future on present
:s 0kq N1kq0
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Believe it or not, there was a 
time when greasy fries at The 
'Original Hotdog Shop could not 
be found.
 In the early 1800s, a thick 
forest stood where Forbes and 
 Bouquet Streets now intersect.
 A century later, Oakland had 
been consumed by Pittsburghs 
city limits as businesses and 
' communities took root. Oakland 
"later became the heart of 
'Pittsburghs cultural, medical, 
vand university activities as 
Americas booming industrial
ization reached the Pittsburgh 
.,Gity limits.
'In 1990, this continuing trend 
;-of expansion has catapulted 
Oakland to the position of the 
$hird fastest growing urban 
:,area in Pennsylvania, behind 
Philadelphia and downtown 
Pittsburgh. Since 1983, there 
has been $369 million worth of 
^construction ,1.7 million 
additional square feet of space, 
,and 574 new homes. Oaklands 
llittractiveness as a center for 
hospitals, universities, and 
retail businesses contributed to 
'-much of this growth.
 -To residents of the city and 
; ""the region who have suffered 
^massive restructuring of the 
; "employment base, Oaklands 
| tgrowth means new jobs. To 
; "many community and private
* ^'organizations, this is a chance 
; rto set up retail businesses,
'develop the university and 
medical community, and in
crease housing space. Many of 
ffiblese groups have established 
.;U4tworks and links among 
^themselves to help organize,
;^develop and maintain Oaklands 
; "growth.
! * City Planning Director Jane 
-Downing sees business growth 
~as a vital element to the resi
dents of Oakland. It represents 
I -potential employment for the 
! -community which is important 
 for stimulating growth, she 
;-says. But at the same time, we 
  dont want residential areas to
* ^deteriorate. We have to balance 
 'competing demands.
One way to balance the 
demand is through partnerships 
with private organizations. The 
former Mayor Richard Caliguiri 
created the Oakland Task
D.O.C.
Dalmo Optical Corp.
Force, a part of the Oakland 
Plan of the early 1970s, as a 
joint project designed to work 
with various community groups 
and businesses. It is an infor
mation exchange, says Down
ing.
The City Planning Depart
ment, which acts as a regula
tory agency by issuing zoning 
and subdivision ordinances, 
plays an important part in the 
coordination efforts. We are 
involved with a lot of different 
organizations and look for ways 
to better calibrate community 
and business growth, says 
Downing. It takes all of us to 
come up with a plan.
Pittsburghs aging infrastruc
ture poses the biggest problem 
for development. For an area 
with 35,000 shoppers and 
visitors per year, 31,000 stu
dents, 21,000 permanent 
residents, and 47,000 cars 
passing through daily, transpor
tation can be a nightmare.
There will be increased 
traffic and congestion which 
makes it hard for the commu
nity to deal with parking and 
getting in and around Oakland, 
Downing says.
Richard Gleeson, commercial 
development director of the 
Oakland Planning and Develop
ment Corporation (OPDC), also 
agrees that transportation 
conditions are problematic.
One major problem is the lack 
of short-term customer park
ing, he says. A shrinking 
growth market would pose 
further problems. If there are a 
lack of businesses, it makes 
land values rise, Gleeson
explains. But he offers an 
optimistic solution: We try to 
encourage developers to reserve 
a place for community-serving 
businesses by providing first 
floor retail space.
Sandra Phillips, director of 
the Pittsburgh Partnership for 
Neighborhood Development 
(PPND), believes that the need 
to solve those problems is in 
everyones self-interests.
The PPND is a non-profit 
intermediary organization 
which provides money and 
resources to community devel
opment groups like the OPDC. 
Phillips, who used to be director 
of OPDC, knows the value of 
cooperation. You have to 
manage the growth between 
development and residential 
concerns, she says.
The residents, however, are 
not entirely happy with 
Oaklands development.
Gleeson perceives a mixed 
reaction from residents about 
the rapid development of 
Oakland. The growth is good 
for increasing the business 
base, providing office space, and 
parking garages, but it is bad 
because more cars and people 
add to the transportation 
problems.
To help keep in touch with 
residents, the OPDC provides 
staff support for Oakland 
Directions, Incorporated, a 
community-based organization. 
We may consider scaled down 
versions of buildings closer to 
residential areas, Gleeson 
describes as one of the ways to 
accommodate residents.
For the most part, OPDC,
 -iff --> >" -4
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer 
PPND, and other groups are 
interested in accommodating 
many different interests and a 
wide rage of clientele. We try to 
encourage diversification of 
retail businesses, says Gleeson. 
These businesses are designed 
to serve the resident, student, 
and employee needs.
The results of their efforts 
can be seen all over Oakland. 
OPDC has put up Holmes Place, 
a 64-unit town house/condo
minium complex in South 
Oakland, on the site of the 
former Holmes Elementary 
School, and two more 12-unit 
buildings are planned. The 
PPND invested its time and 
money into low income housing 
projects around Oakland.
Gleeson feels that projects 
like these will attract many 
more people to the area. Oak
land is a thriving cultural 
center with major hospitals, 
universities, and big organiza
tions. If it were anywhere else, 
it would be its own city, he 
says.
One begins to wonder about 
Oaklands limit of expansion; 
Gleeson sees these limits as 
managed growth. Brian Kim, 
a junior in CIT said, ...growth 
that is good for everyone. 
Phillips believes that managing 
growth in Oakland means 
controlling city zoning ordi
nances through what she calls 
zoning overlay. She continued, 
You want to have zoning 
flexibility to accommodate 
development, but zoning is also 
a useful tool for limiting 
growth. Phillips and many 
others are optimistic about
Thomas Nichols/Tartan SeniorPhotogfS?
kr'n InA$ Uon ArDhnD TrItcn TlDrI Gltrv jotco nclhn BtvywG gr 
lvm tG cSDDnvIs 'lclvu MtmmIn$ prDnADrvG ASvctrvtvy SvmnD lTlDHHH 
StImtvyG. jotco tG sTtclI rA SGtvnGG tv 1liIlvmu kr'n$ VvDlv 
on MnmtclI kDG :StImtvy rv Oo k'nvSnu
Oaklands future. Even though 
there are problems, the city 
needs this economic develop
ment, she says.
It is clear that Oakland is 
reliant on a delicate balance 
between residents, businesses,
and the multitude of com*1111 e 
who pass through it dailyWhile these elements may 
create obstacles, the benefit 
seem to outweigh the probl^ 
as Oaklands growth booms ^ 
the 21st cenuiry.
L2 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990L3
pSmnvG GTnli rS lyltvG cnvGrDGotT
jjy MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon students came 
jut in full frce Tuesday night to 
oice their belief that freedom of 
xpression must remain abso
lutely free. In Only As Nasty As 
\Ve Want You To Be, a debate 
sponsored by the CMU Activities 
Board on the hot topic of music 
censorship, Florida lawyer Jack 
Thompson sparred with Bob 
Juccione, Jr. Thompson was one 
if the primary figures responsible 
or the arrest of the rap group 2 
Live Crew; Guccione.is the editor 
of Spin magazine and a vocal op
ponent of music censorship. After
the formal debate, the rivals responded ttf questions and com
ments from 22 students, all of 
whom opposed Thompsons view 
that 2 Live Crew should be pros
ecuted for obscenity.
Thompson, who spoke first, 
summarized his opinion, I 
havent gone after Luther 
Campbell (the leader of 2 Live 
Crew) because hes black. Ive gone 
after him because hes ... been 
criminally pedalling obscenity 
which he calls comedy to children 
and adults in violation of the ob
scenity statutes which have been 
held constitutional by the United 
States Supreme Court and which 
are on the books to protect women
I find it offensive that youre saying 
that youre standing up for women 
who have been assaulted when all 
youre going after is a rap group.
_____-Elizabeth Cronise, H&SS junior
on lm'nDGlDtnG$ 5Scctrvn. InA. lvm UorhTGrv. Dtyo tv on lIIDrrhu
and children and, yes, even men 
from the consequences of buying 
into the idea that women are less 
than men and can be legitimately 
sexually abused.
The main focus of Thompsons 
opening speech was expressed in 
a quote taken from the Attorney 
Generals commission on pornog
raphy: Pornography is used in 
rape to plan it, to execute it, to 
choreograph it, to engender the 
excitement to commit the very 
act.... It keeps us (women) socially 
silent, it keeps us socially compli
ant, it keeps us afraid in neigh
borhoods, and it creates a vast 
hopelessness for women, a vast 
despair. One lives inside a night
mare of sexual abuse that is both 
actual and potential, and you have 
the great joy of knowing that your 
nightmare is someone elses 
freedom, and someone elses fun. 
In his opening speech, Guccione 
stated his opinion quite simply. I 
vigorously, vehemently, passion
ately, almost fanatically believe 
that freedom of speech has to be 
free, that freedom of expression 
has to be unlimited, and I do so 
knowing that this incorporates 
an awful lot of very offensive 
material into our society....
I dont think any of us are fine 
enough surgeons to go into the 
culture and extract and remove 
only the stuff that everyone agrees 
is bad. And to start to go into the 
culture and slice away bits of it, to 
cut a piece of the fabric, is to
invariably expose a thread that 
someone else will unravel, said 
Guccione.
After Thompson and Guccione 
expressed their opinions and had 
the opportunity to rebut the op
position, members of the audi
ence stepped to the podium to 
have their personal concerns with 
the issue addressed.
Many students concerns fo
cused on Thompsons belief that 
pornography and sexual abuse 
share a cause/effect relationship. 
The root cause of rape is not an 
obscene recording... said H&SS 
freshman Tony Gancarski. Its a 
society...thats basically encour
aged the problem by not looking 
for a solution.
Women are not raped by rap 
groups. They are raped by people, 
said Elizabeth Cronise, a junior 
in H&SS. I find it offensive that 
youre saying that youre standing 
up for women who have been as
saulted when all youre going af
ter is a rap group. Its not an equal 
judgement.
Others were afraid of what 
might happen next. Once you 
start prosecuting one artist, then 
its not that big of a jump to 
prosecute another...and another, 
and the question is, where do you 
draw the line? said Chris Rapier, 
a senior in H&SS.
Still others were angry that 
anyone would take it upon them
selves to determine what they 
could and could not expose themJason Dlgman/Tartan Senior Darkroom Technician
N~pp GnvtrD goDtG lTtnD 6SnGtrvG UorhTGrvwG lDyShnvGu lTtnD 
jlG rvn rA PP GSmnvG r 'rtcn rTtvtrvG. lII rA jorh lyDnnm jto 
5Scctrvnu
selves to. Im not advocating 2 
Live Crew  I think their music 
is terrible...and it does depict 
images that I dont want to think 
about, but thats why I dont go 
out and buy their album, said 
Aaron Skalka, a CFA freshman. 
Go to the root problems...help 
people who need help. Start 
teaching ethics. Help build fam
ily units. But dont tell me what I 
can and cant listen to. Dont tell 
me what I can look at and cant
look at. Thats just not for you to 
decide. Thats for me to decide. 
In responding to the claims 
made by both Guccione apd 
Thompson during the inter vigjw, 
the CMU students in the audi
ence displayed their opinions 
adamantly: they will not be told 
what they are and are not allowed 
to do, see, or listen to. The stu
dents exercised their ffyst 
amendment rights to free speech 
by defending those very rights.
Editor of SPIN magazine reflects on politics of career
ly MEGAN DIETZ
1artan Staffwriter
Bob Guccione, Jr., is a man with 
mission. To hear him, one might 
hink of him as a twenty-first 
entury preacher with a uniquely 
rast audience. I think journalism 
3 sacred in a way because it is the 
afrnite pursuit of truth, the uneachable pursuit of truth. You 
an never quite reach the truth 
vhich journalism aspires to ... 
ut I find it to be an elevating 
nission, says SPIN magazine 
ditor Bob Guccione, Jr. Im ex
ited by the idea of perpetuating 
Jumalism.
SPIN, one of the most popular 
nusic magazines among collegeiged people, started years ago 
vhen Guccione was, as he decribes it, too restless. The Ger
mans have ,a word for it, sitz 
leisch, which means, literally, sit 
lesh. I just couldnt sit.
I came up with the idea of this 
nagazine and immediately forgot 
ibout it.... I said, Thats great  
dont know how to do a magazine, 
dont have any money, and I 
'ouldnt know where to start, 
ays Guccione. But later on ... it 
Ust hit me, that this was a vocaon, not a whim. And so I em,arked on the mission of creating 
md inaugurating SPIN.
The philosophy behind the 
magazine is, to Guccione, the 
biggest draw. I love the potential 
|fthe magazine to communicate 
large numbers of people ... and 
think that theres an ideology to 
m thats completely absent 
om [its competitors]... they dont 
eally have the energy, the vital
ly. the sense of romance that a 
'ounger audience, the age of the 
1 ^A/reader, wants. We are more 
^Passioned,  he claimed.
1 he vitality of the magazine, 
 continued, comes from the 
1 lared desire to define growing 
lP> to define the culture, a real 
aterest in new music, not having 
p *ait until its Top 40, that Phil
0 ins just isnt as exciting as a 
new group.
According to Guccione, music
;s ne thing which binds people
together, because it deals with 
the issues which define the culture 
of those who listen to it. SPIN 
aspires to address the issues im
portant to its readership, as well. 
Thats why theres an AIDS col
umn in SPIN  it has more rel
evance to this audience than most 
of the things in magazines trying 
to hit this audience, even though 
it wouldnt seem to fit in a rock-nroll publication, says Guccione. 
If we were in the middle of the 
Vietnam War, wed be writing 
about the Vietnam War. 
Guccione also includes AIDS in 
his list of the most important is
sues facing the college-aged per
son. .. .We know so little about it, 
and part of the problem is that 
the government pretends they 
know so much about it.... Its like 
someone putting together a forty 
thousand piece jigsaw puzzle and 
starting to declare what the pic
ture looks like after putting to
gether 3 or 4 pieces.
Another important issue, ac
cording to Guccione, is the envi
ronment. The mantle is passed 
from generation to generation, 
and the world they [the collegeaged generation] are being passed 
is like a broken batyou can run
with it, but its still broken.
Censorship is a gigantic issue. 
Like AIDS, were only looking at 
the tip of the iceberg, and we dont 
know how big the iceberg is be
neath the tip we can see. Cen
sorship of music, in and of itself, 
is less significant than the import 
of where it can lead to.
Censorship of music is a bad 
enough thingeven if it stopped 
just there, it would be terrible, it 
would be wrong, it would be unAmerican, it would go against the 
grain of everything youre taught 
in this school.... Its like acid be
cause it erodes the culture.
In his defense of any and all 
forms of artistic expression, 
Guccione hopes to preserve op
portunities for future generations.
Censorship is a social dilemma, 
because [when it happens] it 
means that the generation before 
you had the privilege of access to 
more information, the ability to 
have broader discussions than 
your generation will have.... The 
premise that music is damaging 
is, first of all, completely un
proven, and, second of all, offen
sive and intellectually ignorant.
Guccione was bom in New York, 
but grew up in London. His up
bringing has unquestionably af
fected his views.
I grew up in an environment 
that was liberal and I was better 
for it.... Liberal views constitute 
all of the milestones in Americas 
progress, like Social Security, 
Medicare, unionism, the idea of 
breaking away from Britain in 
the first place, he said.
And liberalism is like art... it 
often precedes understanding.by 
afewyears. It often takes a couple 
of years for us to catch up and 
realize that the idea we found so 
difficult was, in fact, just ahead of 
its time.
Fresh homemade dough spun right before your eyes...
16 CHEESE PIZZA
$2.99
Offer good Sunday thru Wednesday until December 15, 1990.
Original Hotdog Shop 3901 Forbes Ave. Oakland
Phone 621-0453 Offer not good for delivery
Now available Thursday thru Saturday - 
Two 16 Pizzas only $9.99 
5 Toppings for the price of 3.

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990
should
A PERSON'S
,students,
CU^EO^TS^^US Of^U%PTT,S^U9tlVE%$IIty' 
WEAClIOOifTO IME HOLOCAUST
9\(pvem6er 7,1990 
7:00 pm
225C Porter 9-falC _
Carnegie Metton University
(Rah hi Joscpi Levine cordially welcomes you to an open session of His course "Understanding 
tPerspectives on the Holocaust. " (During this session 2(ai Joe zuitt Be giving a lecture and 
[coding a discussion Based on material he gathered during a recent trip to Europe where he 
attended the WorCdStudent Christian federation. This conference provided many opportunities 
for meeting with East and West European Chaplains and dialoguing on issues surrounding the 
w Holocaust and Jewish/Christian relations in the aftermath of Qerman reunification. .
for more information caCC621 -8875.
Last Tuesday, the Senate
 Fee Referendum was voted on
- by the campus. Although the 
-election was open to all 
Carnegie Mellon University 
only 600 voted.
With only ten per cent of the 
showing up at the 
The Tartan asked stuDid you vote for the 
Fee Referendum? 
or why not?
Mike Yacht 
Freshman, MCS
Yes. I think its important that 
we have a choice in what goes on 
here. They dont let us do very 
much, so its important that we do 
what we can do.
Tom Uden 
Sophomore, CIT
No. I didnt know enough about 
it. I didnt really research it.
Joe Harpaz 
Freshman, CIT
No. I dont know what the fuck 
youre talking about.
Patrick Duroseau 
Freshman, CIT
It wasnt publicized. This is 
the first time Ive heard about it.
Mike Fuson/Tartan photographer
Tangy Harris 
Sophomore, MCS
I didnt know about it until 
after it was over. I definitely 
would have voted against it 
simply because Im not involved 
in any of the organizations that 
will receive the money and I 
dont think its fair that the 
whole campus should pay for a 
select few.
ca
gM- :lIIDrrh 0lvcn gIS 
hrvns r Gnvm GtC crSTInG
BALLROOM, from page LI
one is no small task, according to 
Kellner, who is also the ballroom 
dance coordinator for the Com
munity College of Allegheny 
County and who has worked with 
tije CMU club since its inception.
It is very exciting, though, said 
Wood. When I finished the pro
grams at 7:30 Friday morning, I 
wasnt that excited, but Im much 
better now, she laughed.
Wood, a researcher in the school 
of Computer Science, estimated 
that about 20 couples had pre
registered for the event, and oth
ers had said they would bring 
their checks with them.
The package cost $40 for com
peting students and $30 for spec
tators.
Wed be happy with however 
many we get, said Wood. If its 
small, itll be really personal, and 
if its big, then  great.
In part, the festival was a fund
raiser to send a competitive team 
of about six couples to London in 
March, according to Wood. But 
even if we just break even, well 
be happy, she said.
According to Kellner, there are
DtnG r DltGn 
r rvmrv
many local dance halls which ca
ter to ballroom dancing, includ
ing the Palace Inn in Monroeville.
You can find somewhere to 
dance every night around here, 
she said.
According to Ohshima, most of 
the members of the Carnegie 
Mellon club just come to dance for 
fun.
You know how it is at CMU, 
he said. Youre always feeling so 
uptight, always thinking about 
your research paper or your dead
line  most people just come out 
to have fun and meet people.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling and 
Student Development 
Center 
268-2922
CONTACT Pittsburgh 
782-4023
Drug Connection 
854-0700
Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30 am - 
5 pm. For after Hours emergencies when 
the office is closed, call the Center.
An answering service operator will reach a 
counselor on call.
24- hour telephone counseling, crisis 
intervention, and supportive listening.
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline. 5-9pm.
Counseling and Student Development Center, 
a Division of Student Affairs
Wissmans Forward Lanes
5844 Forward Avenue (Squirrel Hill) 422-5844 
only minutes from campus
Thursday CMU Night 
9:30pm- 12:30am
Free rental shoes and bowling discounts 
with CMU I.D.
Call for special group rates and all nite parties.
Male bonding through dental floss rebls against societys rules
I regret to say that we of the 
FBI are powerless to act in cases 
<f oral-genital intimacy, unless it 
ijias in some way obstructed in
terstate commerce.
 J. Edgar Hoover 
;! In a previous column I wrote, 
[Your girlfriend dumps you for 
$ome guy you are all set to hate 
$nd you wind up wishing he were 
female. Far from leaving erect 
4ome of the questions I seem to 
tave raised, this perhaps may be 
tjhe time to address certain aspects 
Of same-sex relationships. Ap
parently, healthy heterosexual 
^nen like myself are not supposed 
IJo have thoughts like these. I am 
ot too sure that I understand the 
Reason why.
! Consider the following example. 
I was recently walking across the 
Cut with a friend after having 
had a large Indian meal. Com
menting on the large amount of 
food I had eaten, I said I feel 
extremely bloated. 
r- She turned to me and explained 
that she thought it was ridiculous 
to hear men say the word 
ibloated. By way of an explana
tion, I offered my belief that the 
reason men use the word bloated 
is-because men tend to hear this 
word in advertisements generally 
geared toward women, and in 
using words such as bloated they 
think that they are establishing 
some sort of unconscious link to 
women.
This incident is directly linked 
to many peoples impressions of 
how male-to-male relationships 
be. There is the obvious 
of male bonding pre
summation of male-to-male rela- male bonding without the flagrant pissing against the wind, conver- denunciation of all male bonding 
tionships which is played out in display of firearms, fishing poles, sations across the half-walls be- rituals, having destroyed my fajr 
the popular media. Under this cigarettes, and power tools. The tween urinals, and taking a leak share of unsuspecting carp, Se.
WHO IS JAVI?
by Javier Grillo-Marxuach
sented in the popular media: that 
of men wearing flannel sitting 
around a campfire drinking lite 
beer, or of dry-beer-drinking men 
sharing with each other the tech
nological miracle which allows 
them to produce swimming pools 
and scantily clad women from a 
silver plated valise, or, genuinedraft-beer-drinking men con
quering rapids, conquering mar
lins or conquering each other (oh, 
stop that leering, I am only 
making a point).
I cannot say that ideas of what 
male bondingis are manufactured 
through beer commercials. 
Rather, the notions that are por
trayed and perpetuated through 
advertising represent the general 
societal malaise which keeps a 
heterosexual male from being able 
to say, Gosh, hes good looking, 
without the initial caveat I am 
strictly speaking from an aes
thetic appreciation of the human 
form which I objectively perceive 
without emotional or sexual in
volvement; the opinion I am about 
to express signifies nothing about 
my sexual orientation whatso
ever, a sentiment colloquially 
expressed as I aint gay, but....
Obviously, there is a societal 
model for the archetypal conideal system there are several 
essential guidelines which must 
be strictly followed in order to 
insure the development of true 
friendship. These guidelines are 
as follows:
Number one: Men can only be 
friends if they are outdoors. This 
is a given. How can male-to-male 
friendships ever flourish without 
the requisite crashing waves, 
rolling hills, and running horses? 
Of course, in my head, the image 
of crashing waves, rolling hills, 
and running horses inevitably 
conjure thoughts of star-crossed 
lovers running into each others 
arms.
But I say this from a strictly 
aesthetic frame of reference which 
I objectively perceive without 
emotional or sexual involvement.
Oddly enough the most touch
ing moment of so-called male 
bonding I have ever been privy to
last item in this list may be debat
able, but anybody who has sat 
through such macho fare as 
Commando,Lethal Weapons I and
II, and, of course, The Driller 
Killer knows what Im talking 
about.
Personally, I have a deeply en
trenched fear of power tools and 
would rather see them become 
the strictly protected domain of a 
gender other than my own. Alas, 
egalitarianism must prevail, 
meaning that whenever the chal
lenge of bookcase-making rears 
its ugly head I will stand up, 
proudly wielding that power drill 
along with all of my brothers and 
sisters in carpentry.
My perception is that under the 
prevailing societal dogma men 
cannot truly be friends without 
destroying some form of life. The 
example of my evening of dental 
hygiene with my brother is no
behind funeral homes in the 
middle of the night would never 
take place.
Although I will admit that the 
latter may be too personal an ex
ample to be counted in this con
text, I did spit often on that 
Christmas eve with my brother.
These three simple rules have a 
Byzantine network of subrules 
and regulations which include 
mandates such as men may not 
embrace without grunting and 
slapping each other simulta
neously, no man may kiss an
other unless the presence of alco
holic intoxication can be unerr
ingly proven in retrospect, men 
must scratch audibly, and no 
man may kiss another full on the 
lips unless he is A1 Pacino in The 
Godfather Part II.
Ultimately, these rules do very 
little to disguise the fact of their 
own inability to rob all male
creted fair share of bodily 
and spent a great deal of time in 
the great outdoors.
The problem lies in that these 
three categories tend to engulf 
and shut out many other aspects 
of same-sex friendships under a 
false standard of what it is to be a 
real man.
But the ideal of the real man 
which beer and cigarette com. 
mercials express is simply not 
enough to convey the range o 
feelings which human beings can 
harbor for one another regardless 
of sexual orientation or prefeH 
ence in power tools. The absolute 
expression of true friendship 
should not be restricted to the byi 
laws of the Pennsylvania Game 
Commission, but rather to that 
gesture which best expresses th( 
nature of ones fondness for another.
Obviously, making a value
occurred on Christmas Eve, two exception to this rule, as many bonding rituals of their innate judgment between hunting and
years ago when my brother, 
dental student at Pitt, asked me 
the question do you floss? 
When I explained that my busy 
schedule kept me from flossing 
frequently, he proceeded to sit me 
down, whip out his trusty John
son and Johnsons unwaxed floss 
dispensapak (I told you he was a 
dental student) and teach me the 
proper way to floss.
We were in the den. A den inside 
a house that is.
Number two: All male bonding 
must involve some allusion to 
death. Naturally, there can be no
strands of hideous tartar met their 
doom that night.
Number three: Friendship be
tween males must be facilitated 
by the production of bodily fluids. 
As nasty as this may sound, the 
hallmarks of male bonding seem 
to be spitting, urinating, sweating, 
and drinking. Hair splitters may 
argue that beer is not a bodily 
fluid.
Some argue that these people 
, have not engaged their taste buds 
appropriately. I argue that with
out beer, representative models 
of male bonding activities such as
homo-erotic content. Almost every 
action counted as male-bonding 
reeks with the sexual intentions 
they so adamantly claim to reject. 
Even the vocabulary of malebonding is clothed, or rather un
clothed in innuendo  hunting, 
fishing, drinking, sweating, 
smoking, and drilling, need I say 
more?
Before I continue, I must admit 
that many of the actions com
monly equated with male-bond
ing do evoke genuine feelings of 
friendship. I would be a hypocrite 
if I were to make a wholesale
flossing is not in my place. But 
perhaps if anybody out there feels 
the need to rebel against the con! 
ventions officially sanctioned by 
the Beer Distributors of America 
reach out and without the obliga 
tory grunt, slap or projection of a 
hocker, touch a guy.
But avoid some of the naughtj 
bits; There are some places where 
even the most die hard of macho 
men can be accused of hypersen 
sitivity.
Javier Grillo-Marxuach \ 
senior English major.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990L5
Students recommend potpourri of courses
BVLfq :kqVR
'artan Contributing Editor
This week, students will be 
unning around campus to stand 
n lines. The lines will be long and 
he students will be tired. They 
ill clutch their add/drop forms 
e their hands hoping that theyll 
ret into the classes that they need 
o graduate. With sweat on their 
rows, the tension will be thicker 
han any soup ever offered at 
jjghlander. The lines will be in 
very building. Some students will 
ven spend the night outside their 
epartment to ensure they get 
he right class.
But the inevitable will happen, 
tudents will panic. Screams will 
,e heard. They will have room for 
lectives. Which elective to take 
-Surrealistic Marxism: A Study 
n Bunnies and Rabbits or The 
Advanced Dynamics of Ground
water Hydrology in Utah Soil? 
yhich professor is better? Is the 
ass an easy A?
So, to make life easier, here is 
ome advice for those students 
/ho will find themselves with an 
lective.
The first suggestion comes from 
lark Fisher, a sophomore engieering student. The course that 
would recommend is Statics and 
Jynamics with Glen Sinclair. 
iisher says he recommends 
iinclair for a simple reasion: Hes 
he only good teacher Ive had at 
his school.
Laura Harkcom, a sophomore 
H&SS student, recommends a 
course in another department: 
definitely Fundamentals of 
Drama with Scott Cummings,she 
says. Its fun and interesting. Its 
the only class Ive had fun in. Its 
like a survey course  it covers 
all kinds of drama, from classical 
to Victorian to modem. 
Harkcom isnt alone in her 
recommendation of Fundamen
tals of Drama. Lauren Van Ham, 
a CFA freshman, agrees. The 
class exposes you to a lot of litera
ture. Being exposed to all that 
literature is like taking a history, 
a psychology, and a English class 
all in one, she says.
Although ots a hard course, 
MCS sophomore Graham Hill 
recommends professor Robert 
Schumachers Physical Mechan
ics course. You cant help but be 
confused, he says. On the first 
day of class, he said Remember 
Physics I? Its wrong. Then he 
said things like Lets integrate 
this from zero to zero, but we cant 
because its only one-dimensional. 
Lets expand it.  Hill closed his 
recommendation with a piece of 
advice that Schumaker always 
said in class: Just binomially ex
pand when in trouble.
Jim Honan, a senior in CIT, has 
taken four semesters of French. 
I think the Modem Languages 
department has improved a lot 
since Ive been here, he said. I 
would recommend any French
s BVR pUVfq5
artan Staffwriter
It wasnt just another assignent for a group of CMU stunts in Joseph Lewis class, 
lese students in his 2D Design 
ass were assigned to participate 
a poster competition comlemorating the tenth anniveriry of The Greater Pittsburgh 
ommunity Food Bank. The 
leme of the contest was Poverty 
the 90s. Among top the finhers in the competition was 
eshman Darren J. Press, who 
iptured second place.
Instructor Joseph Lewis asgned this project not only once, 
nt twice. The students voted on 
hich of the CMU pieces would 
dually be entered. Among those 
ho had entries were Vincent 
(accioli, John Ferris, Jr., Donald 
lexander, Tanya Keith, Michele 
rn, Tony Derossa, and Darren 
Press.
Press winning poster consisted 
f two photographs overlapping 
ich other  one of a homeless 
lan pushing a cart down the 
eet and the other of a homeless 
(an leaning against a building, 
singly looking on. Ironically, 
'ess poster met with some con,versy in the class and had not
course. The professors are really 
competent.
A couple of students want to 
take CFA classes, but cant be
cause of the number of classes 
required for their major. We want 
art classes, says Brian Kim, a 
junior in CIT. We dont get a 
chance to take any CFA classes..
Kwang-HyonPark, another CIT 
junior, agrees with Kim. More 
art classes have to be available to 
CIT students, he says. An art 
student recommended Advanced 
Intermediary to me. The teacher 
is supposed to be incredible.
In fact, many students with 
technical majors want to take CFA 
courses. The classes in CFA seem 
better. Theyre more one-on-one 
and students get more out of 
them, Park says.
Sean Ward, an MCS junior, 
praises Mathematical Methods of 
Physics, taught by professor Hugh 
Young. Its challenging and the 
math is useful for what we do, he 
says.
Jonathon Knight, a fifth year 
H&SS student, lauded Entrepre
neurship, a course offered by 
GSIA. Jack Thorn is one of the 
best professors in the school. The 
information taught is relevant to 
the real world.
Dynamics of Physical Systems 
was recommended by James Horn, 
a senior in CIT. Its really handson stuff. We got to build a working 
model of a crane out of Legos. 
Domenic Donovan, a freshman
Carnegie Melton's Best Teachers
The Ryan Teaching Award is CMU's highest honor for excellent teaching.
N~pp
English:
Beekman W. Cottrell (1968)** 
Granville H. Jones (1980) 
Gladys Schmitt (1972)*
A. Fred Sochatoff (1961) 
History:
Irving H. Bartlett (1977)*
Edwin Fenton (1964)
Ludwig Schaefer (1986) 
Richard Schoenwald (1988) 
Michael P. Weber (1983)* 
Psychology:
James H. Korn (1970)* 
Statistics:
Joel B. Greenhouse (1987) 
gEk
Art:
Herbert T. Olds (1973)
Sam Rosenberg (1963)* 
Drama:
Barbara J. B. Anderson (1981) 
Elizabeth Orion (1985)
Music:
Oleta Benn (1967)*
Helen Gossard (1978)*
gfU
Chemical Engineering:
Edward L. Cussler (1974)*
Myung S. Jhon (1984)
Edmond Ko (1986)
Robert R. Rothfus (1966)*
Electrical and Computer Engineering: 
James F. Hoburg (1980)
David T. Tuma (1976)*
MEMS 
Robert W. Dunlap (1971)*
Mgp
Chemistry:
Charles H. Van Dyke (1975) 
Mathematics:
Borden Hoover (1962)*
William J. Hrusa (1985)
Richard A. Moore (1969)
Physics:
Robert A. Eisenstein (1979)* 
Robert W. Kraemer (1982)
Helmut Vogel (1989)
Hugh D. Young (1965)
* - no longer on faculty 
** - Emeritus professor
H,8O slv kjlDm jtvvnD btIItlh NDSGl
in CFA, enjoys Computer Model
ing so much that he recommends 
that every student take it. It eats 
your time up and thats real good, 
he says. Theres nothing like sit
ting in front of a computer eight 
to nine hours for four days 
straight. Its real fun.
William Zachery, a sophomore 
in H&SS, likes his Reading Texts 
class because you get to express 
all the bullshit that youve always 
wanted to say.
Several students recommend a 
physical education class, saying 
its important to get exercise dur)MU students enter 
ocal poster contest 
or the Food Bank
been included in the ones chosen 
to be entered. He decided to enter 
it on his own, despite the opposi
tion. Press second piece, the 
poster chosen by his peers for 
entry in the contest, won an Hon
orable Mention from the panel 
judges, who consisted of various 
experts in the arts. Vincent 
Macciolis two works also received 
Honorable Mentions.
Louise Tullius, who is employed 
at the Food Bank and holds a 
degree in Art from Edinboro Uni
versity, complimented the stu
dents efforts, We were very 
pleased with all of the work en
tered by the students from CMU. 
She also said that Darrens sec
ond place will earn him $75 in 
Gift Certificates and he will be 
honored at the Tenth Anniver
sary commemoration dinner.
Commenting on his prize, 
Darren said, Although my first 
work was met with such mixed 
reactions, I felt strongly enough 
about it to enter it on my own. It 
was really nice to win especially 
when I went with my feelings.
Press work, as well as the other 
winning pieces, are to be displayed 
at the Artery, located at 5847 
Ellsworth. They will be part of an 
exhibit to be shown starting De
cember 6.
ing the school year. I recom
mend volleyball, says CIT 
junior Frank Autenreith.
George Karnage, a sopho
more CIT student who thinks 
a lot about the weather in 
Pittsburgh recommends Any
thing at USC.
Sister, can you 
spare a dime?
Phi Kappa Theta brother Paul 
Nagy, the IFC Philanthropy 
Chair, and Phi Kappa Theta 
pledge brother Ari Telisman, a 
Phi Kap pledge, collect money 
for Zachary Blecher. Blecher 
is a four year old who has 
been diagnosed lG having a 
rare disease that can only be 
cured by a bone marrow 
transplant. Fortunately, his 
brother is a perfect match for 
bone marrow for the 
transplant. About 25 
fraternity and sorority 
members collected $2000 in 
the Highland Park district on 
Sunday, October 28. The 
money will help offset the 
medical bills that are piling 
up. To make a donation, mail 
your check to Funds for 
Zachary, 6393 Penn Ave., 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206.
Sam Mastromatteo/Tartan Photographer
mid the garbage, guidebooks have relevant info
w TRUPTI PATEL
jJrta/i Asst Feafures Editor
JAU students at CMU are reWed to buy computers, at least 
[a: Ls what Lisa Birnbach says 
Put Carnegie Mellon Univertion of whether college guide books 
are beneficial or detrimental to 
colleges is pertinent in a society 
that worships guides or manuals 
of any kind.
Many administrators as well as
. --------------------- students agree that the vast maFln her publication titled Lisa jority of high school students aprattack's New & Improved Col& Book.
jjfhis type ofmisinformation has 
jywpted both students and adfflstrators to question the va1 y of many alleged guides to 
fnvP8 ava^a^e 011 the market. [Obviously, students at CMU 
low that owning a computer is 
r ^tely not required and that a 
ajority of students on campus 
B not in fact own computers.
! e cntroversy lies in the fact 
a Scresofhigh school students 
|und the country have read 
! achs words without ever 
jizing that some of the infori. |n ^ ^er book is misleading 
! Natantly incorrect. The quesplying to colleges like CMU refer 
to at least some type of guide book 
in order to help them decide.
In fact, almost any high school 
junior can obtain a plethora of 
guidebooks from his or her coun
seling center in school. The fact 
that so many students read these 
books disturbs some. Sophomore 
architecture major Matt Stafford 
says, [Birnbachs statement 
about computers] blows! It just 
insures that nobody but geeks 
come to school here.
Others do not believe that the 
guidebooks pose such a serious 
threat. John Papinchak, Associ
ate Director of Admissions at 
CMU, believes that most guide
books, such as Petersons, 
Barrons, and the College Board 
Handbookx make standard infor
mation such as S.A.T. scores, size, 
location, and enrollment proce
dures easily accessible to high 
school students. However, 
Papinchak adds, We think 
[guidebooks] provide a good ser
vice if theyre used properly. Its 
important to look at them, but 
with a grain of salt. Our office 
position is that the guides are a 
helpful tool, but they cannot be 
used by themselves.
Ann Greene, assistant to the 
dean of admissions at the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania, agrees with 
Papinchak, The guidebooks can 
give you basic information about 
the school. But you cant expect 
the guidebook to give you a real 
flavor for the university. Any stu
dent needs to visit. No student 
should depend on guidebooks. I 
certainly wouldnt want to rely on 
one of them to decide where I was
going to spend the next four years 
of my life.
The guide books which 
Papinchak and Greene caution 
students about are Bimbachs 
book and also The Fiske Guide to 
Colleges 1991. Fiskes write-up 
about CMU caused quite a bit of 
turmoil among Carnegie Mellon 
students several years ago. Fiske 
stated, Carnegie Mellon remains 
one of the most fragmented cam
puses in the nation. Students di
vide themselves into the fruits 
(actors, dancers, and other artsy 
types) and the veggies (engineers 
and architects). The line became 
somewhat of a joke among stu
dents but spurred university offi
cials to give the 1989 Freshman 
Orientation Week the theme of 
diversity in order to overcome 
such stereotypes among the in
coming freshman class.
Sophomore IDS major Leslie 
Tam says, The line about fruits 
and veggies is really bad. It makes
our campus seem extremely di
vided when its really not. But the 
books have good things too, like 
the interesting places to hangout.
Most of the students The Tartan 
spoke to shared Tams sentiment 
that both Bimbachs and Fiskes 
books had a few glaring errors 
but were, for the most part, accu
rate.
Many students found the books 
accounts of CMU very amusing 
because of both accuracies and 
inaccuracies. There is a portion in 
Bimbachs book which states that 
athletic facilities suck, a state
ment which most CMU students 
would tend to agree with. Some 
students could not help but laugh 
at Birnbachs statements, Dat
ing is big at the monogamousminded school... and The school 
boasts ... the Spartan, Carnegie 
Mellons impressive campus 
newspaper.
All the students The Tartan 
spoke to agreed that Fiskes book
is definitely better than 
Bimbachs. One student quipped, 
How can you entrust your future 
in the hands of Lisa Birnbach, the 
woman who wrote The Official\ 
Preppy Handbook?
Cathy ORourke, associate di
rector of admissions at New York 
University, confirms that Fiskes 
book is better. She says, Fiske 
takes a very different kind of look 
at colleges. He gets input from 
students. Thats somewhat 
unique. There is benefit in read
ing this because the information 
has not been manipulated by the 
administration. Besides, the 
guidebooks tend not to be detri
mental. We tend to come in pretty 
good even with the most opinion
ated ones.
The general consensus is that 
even though misinformation does 
exist in guidebooks, they are a; 
good source of information as long 
as students do not read them as 
though they were sacred.

---------------------------------------------------

Doonesbury by G. B.TrudeauCalvin and Hobbes by Bill Waterson
OKAY, PAP,WHAT GIVES KK ,NHERB? WHY SOME OF THESENPSMOKES M0&MVM6memas? mm*** 
1ft
nSpo p rEdp\Npep\ wHoif.TURE.1 CATEGORICALLY REJECT YDUR SNIPE IMPLICA - HON THAT THE INDUSTRY15 TRYING TO HOOK YET ANOTH- ER GENERATION OF SOMERS')
I WOULOKT \ WOULD S0V> MIND THIS SO SAS Sew WERE MUCH IF HE 'VERS SUWmP'
didnt keep J ov commiA IDG. r-A SURPRISED"?
rHEY... MORE \ TREE SMOKES* I WONDER. WHERE THEY L.CAME FROM..
HIERE BACK. SUBJECT: PHIUP\ MORRIS DOUATES 2 MIUJON OGARBTTESTOTHEPESERT SHIELDARMEP FORCES! GOESTA SLACKM&ER.SR., INPUS- J TRY APOLOGIST!
CARES? ENJOY! ilXRCOMYROOOM
mu
VRDOM85,,,,I
c fb1-jjht2thpDvlce
HEY.BUPPY? HEE.HEE! YOU YOU KNOW ANY- CAUGHT ME! THING ABOUT THE TM THE ONE SMOKESIKEEP WHO'S BEEN PIMPING ON MY lEAVIN' 'EM BEPP^CJ^\ FOR YOtPy-j
YOU CAN CALL ME "BUrT5Y"! I'M THE BATTALION TOBAC- . CO LIAISON/
ON BEHALF OF A GRATEFUL INPUSTRY, I'VE BEEN CHARGED WTH PS7RJBUT- INO 10,000 CARTONS OF \ CJGAR5TTE TO OUR ; FIGHTING MEN AND / WOMENFRee J OF CHARGE!
r ms9Ca r,ngiTRAIN OF THOUGHT IS A RUNAWAS.
N0 OUT OF THE GOOD-KIPPING ? NESS OF... WHOA!WHY7 YOU KNOW YOU\  LOOK LIKE BOGART,/<S//7T
/> 1 >7
hY \
MU9ev wt t,Urv /nm 9y'{OU WEAR A. MNSK L\KE THIS ON THE BACK Of SOUR HEM), TIGERS CANT TEIL WHICH WM SOJ'RE FAC\N&, ANO THEf CAHT SNEAK UP.
100K MOM, I ARE SO) GETTING I MADE A ) REAOS FOR MASK. / HALLOWEEN?
WWT NO, THIS IS FOR EVERS DAS. SOU KNOW HOW HOBBES ALWASS : SNEAKS UP FROM ] BEHIND AND J POUNCES OK ME?
HEY, BUTT5Y, HOW HOW COULD COULP YOU GET FREE WE* HOW SMOKES INTO HERE1 COULP WE THE PENTAGON'S GOT NOT! LOOK REGULATIONS AT THESE! P'N. AGAINST I
LETTERS!FROM BRAVE SERVICEMEN ANP SERVICE- ^ GALS HERE f/\ IN THE
HERE. DAD. I 
MADE SOU A MASK LIKE MINE. SOU WEAR IT ON THE BACK OF YOUR HEAD TO
PgUMUCm m9bUg- ATTACKS. ^
^PEAR PHILIP MORRIS  HELP! WE CAN'T GET SMOKES ON THE FRONT UNES! IF WE, DON'T GET A SHIPMENTJ^X SOON, WE MIGHT y^7\ ALL BECOME...< AoX BECOME..."
TIGERS ALWAYS 1RS TO GET SOU FROM BEHIND, BUT WITH THIS MASK ON, THES CANT TEU_ WWCH WAS SOURE FACING. 5D THES DONT PcuNCE. I READ \T IN A BOOK.
Yfcll.I APPRECIATE SOJR CDNRN,BUT 1 THINK ILL f TAKE MS CHANCES J- AND NOT LOOK Y L\KE A LUNAT\C. /
OK. IF SOUD HONES, ARE RATHER LOOK WE CWT OF LIKE RAW ASPIR\N AfiMN? 
HAMBURGER, V/^TB3ril'
/U lr bnUrmi h
TWE HAVEN'T'' RECEIVED MAIL THAT MOVING I SINCE THE \avlDWARi
WHAT ARE THEY?
/g-z?.
MASBE THIS W\lL TE ACUSON THAT PEOPLE ARE SMARTER. THAN AHIMALS ! DJ CAN'T . OUTWIT A HOMAN ! r_-
NCM SOU CANT TEIL WHICH WAS IM FACING, SbXCU CANT SNEAK UP FROM BEUUtt). I'VE FINMLS THWARTED S<*JR . MURDEROUS RECREATION !
WEIL. IF IF ISNT OL' v ROCKET- BUTT.' I GUESS SOU WONT BE POJNClHG ON 
ME ANS N\0RE/ SEE. TM WEAR\NG A MASK ON THE .. BACK OF MS HEAD.'
HE'S DISTRIBUTING 2 MILLION FREE SMOKES COURTESY OF PHILIP MORRIS... AS MELLAS FREE COUNSELING.
SEE, YOU CAN AL- WOW... WAYS GIVE IT UP YOU SURE WHEN YOU GET THEREHOME! ISNTA
WHERE YOU BEEN GETTIN'AU- THE SMOKES, / MAN ?
TALL, SKINNY GUY OVERTHERE. HE'S THE BATTALION'S TOBACCO LIAISON...
FROMBUTTSY.'wetsTHAT?,
In ThE MiddLE a&ES, Lords <iNd vaSSaLS 
liVEd N q -nJ9Au systEM.
THATS FEUDAL" SSSTEM.JUST WHEN I THOUGHT THIS JUNK WAS BEGINNING -, TO MkKE SENSE. ____
HOW ABOUT YOU, GOOP BUDDY? CARE FOR SOME FREE SMOKES?
NOWAY,MAN.20 YEARS FROM NOW, 1 DON'T WANTTO WAKB UP WITHCAl-\ CER. t
20 YEARS FROM mi? I HATE TO BREAK IT TO YOU, PAL, BUT YOU'RE A SOLPIER! yOU MIGHT NOT BE AROUNP 20 MINUTES FROM NOW!i
THANK YOU. THIS GOOP IS MY SIXTH PONT. WAR. \ ^
I'VE GOT MORE ( S I'VE BRAINS THAN V NOTICED. I KNOW WHAT b^-y- TO O WITH.
I'M A GENWJS.I CANT BEUEVE HON SMART 
I AtA. r_jS
SONcD,S,,HOW ABOUT YOU, SOL- PIER? INTEREST YOU IN SOME FREE SMOKES':
/ 'NAH, MAN! *. I DONT ^ SMOKE... ^__
REALLY ? I'LL BET YOU JUST HAVENT TRIED THE RJ6HT BRAND! MAYT SUGGEST MARLBOROS, THE CHOICE OF SO MAW SERVICETHE MARJBORO MAN IS RUC-GEP, INPE- PENPENT, A COWBOY WHO POESNT RUN  WITH THE HERD! J
OKAY. THEN. \ MAYBE YOU'RE A SOPHISTICATE! A BENSON'N'HEPSES SORT OF FELLOW! J
\IPUNNO, MAN, I J AIN7N0! cam/...
Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.Calvin and Hobbes is a daily featuie in the Pittsburgh Press.
The Far Side by Gary Larson
ED'3JACKHAM
SCHOOl
The Far Side is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post GazetteJoe! You went and ate the pig I was going to serve 
this evening to the MacIntyres? ... Well, you just 
disgorge it  it should still be OK."
Cmon! Keep those stomachs over the handle! Let 
the fat do the work!... Thats it!
fmDn/INDSMELD
"Barbara, you just have to come over and see all 
my eggs. The address is: Doris Griswold, 5 feet 4 
inches, 160 pounds, brown eyes  Im in her hair."
"OKI Ill talk! Ill talk!... Take two sticks of 
approximately equal size and weight  rub 
them together at opposing angles using 
short, brisk strokes ..
Young ants entertaining themselves with a grape

---------------------------------------------------

Ms
LcoaM.mevM:concision V 
imtrica'1! b
rnovi^ CrviSc 8oL,'
7m-Weeti SflYM' P065 *rx&s&rr 7HZ 6CP ftpe 0? /Hum/Mme: /
..cmi~fiNPCAK>f&. /
TheuTHey 1 MVCAT5 terreteNr TVePAKKe*s/re... 4
MMAKWW N WHAT RXJ<3 HAtse&j wm't/my,PilOL'ffOY? ySTV\\WsW'
' Jitte.SBF-XKMb. MeAt)-smtEP, v/oceDce- rme. coumKr. fsmmwc MR M6S WHOP JVSr A5 ,SXMTVmONYA M A------w*. rippceaiiteR M
%r- 9wToB / i
!VW \mim,&uypoy?
ds, 8 Shut 5,bUg g[pj
\IcOf^L&etsi noNswjcfilCqqlWtet-sjftLirtV
v? , x Jss^s j-ukt I -n
yii'f. f be ^ 
f^l fi0-
op. /n^Ki'pi^ 5^^ -jt> [AM[/;a 
+ P*1!fuM ^ * sii-ip iftflva vft.foHs
(4U(no(i. fft s\^tle StpA (hW^^oJffmn$ 4
\\ fvtfTK'.
\ \iff/s\ A-Kih r\_4J?i
lyVC/f f/*?< 5 AC^ -fo > -PT* CtiirfT^Tn
>T5^
ook; ui^^TT 
u^eD "#sr 
i brtJirtA/vvjn&^
flff 
-hrf Uoi^atesj
/ v^ifWpte
A td.iS!&i- / V . _Lucir
I InI TKigoTe 
A To +he u7Rli> 
^AVSe/MtS A , 
SVW Basegail 
Qj .-yHl/ Iterf A
sa*..
Oi/lnyQ5ipi d"cunX don't OnderS^nd 
VV]/m/i3 -th/njs
I "Don't fh&
r'c^ he.li> Hie,
~C3tH7f Rf'?*)u/#ij/s 
-^LTtt^cod Jj OSA
s ^Sn ?
0opT$ \3)re.puBLi<:qn 5
Onehovts / 
cd' ~Me- iloUerS^v
uds  uP in' ~M- iifc
UJorJS ^Jv.se
IT Wi HH %
+UC^^ (
"'du5+ m-Jke 
uj\nd * bi/t
Love
fnends^/p'
s ^ most UsnnH /
n-t5\
qnuu;ha^ , 
UJWa,tS
Ri^k+ HoU i Ca de 
'cyt- malte, fifta. 
~X y-&cJ\y doM+ Sec.
ecicl Ca*io <>/ rfVancl tlc*vJt>-^W4- /- 'oUACoST
ZWinet. excusem-e X HVfi^KiU 
^Soi*i.on   
l*>N
I Uf /S ?
4 /iol -even/ tecl ie S 
T3 tTvke ci bitt
plEDei 
UJ| w T.SPaul Madonna
UtioSs LIVES Vf;?tvVP OPor^ TMts 
/Joi~>, pg98t NEH1? tiMe isoL-nteP ^ 
Vl-leH^Gc\/ss <~Jtt hl Iti /t-pepnessep /q 
Onoc,tp oav scAtE; mp \ <i
Zo APrt'C zHeiii- PfFe/fC \
ytr i Klo Lo/OerL 
Wo^iieP f\Qouc itr,
Voog , i'M Mori? 
iVo/idifp flot>C MH 
FRie-iJps AMP Co-towyrsn.
IJOoJ
\^E-T^l5
Kock, it's 
ute -
tAPifJ',

---------------------------------------------------

\+ltr ckaiW/p<
i q
^poey i-S STILL A/Ja/l/sfcr TH BEt-JEl* n5 
O? HI-FR EDOCA-rvo/J. THE RlSTWR^s OFFlCg 
5Tu__ HASfJ'r KAuiZ.D itS Ml5TA*\ TfmS 
vjti^ 'soe.i -takes p brak ffp* his stow es
T JtSiT \H v>$i>->55 QpPoP:WN>ms(j\->jrgREtJg
/''rtfiC/W i 
foj IfJFCRWllOW 
OM XTC. COQPy*? <T Fof?^ 
'loVfSi-F ,{*(_(yzz. 8^tr.F(md\ SsMETHIkK, To \ U>AA Ta THE BOCJ
cnfrfOS XU- L uisxift Hy haulers/'V^U>gATSHKT 1) /
. jBwBJ msom kJ80u OF <*UV, TiiK R0EC/?vj UnrvipPrsfci
MEAtJWHll^ 
Ar -WE
,s REAt-C- I UP
yo^? PEMLIMG, l KJ 
W*H-r*W, A $[F,u'R
WHAT TVP 
OF eXPlEfvX 
CO 'fOO HAt/ ?
c<XQri >
X i UA5 > / iM THE 'imFQKT-XPCT 
QOsitJess^im/S]
vTjM \ out_J
^/17,
YE.S, 30SX EOgn' C'&AR^ Age jeflM ftHIS VC.HC O OPJiwM gY vt.
eFPi]$U o.9Ue ir>i
"VHE-NEW, COMFVlCTP t-OOK.
/?7Nfe- CL 
IS cool
CCaaamaona ,
-fi r> "^-Ws
5e ^wtem/hes qre ^ -Wie same, ttiey all rape
Uy^f^trr* ni* c(nm #. -fcc Mucln
50 I U'on-f-ei/e* +r^ * lifae+W____________ f . tu vt9 _ t [r
^ wiUcfW 
HiiottwiiicRgArn
-fp -/-Aie F/^HT
U -O-U-it 
rneg C>r VOufc. STbEWTS iS 
IS) SE<UU5 Tfcou&LE , A-fO  
( THlUfc VOi/ 5iMlos dLu
My frABlKlt SySTE^ 
ii fMiwewruy 
&% ^ wwBWAtr i>
y i / /vvjfoi
Vjw 1 c-aw IS/ IvtoSHI
+ tW
PS.
 CRfArra 
^lPS /in
BEUlKJDfM WH1 OU  AfcTM 
AR.H VOU MOT TAICIMS- TV
STATISTICS QUIT-WHVC I
ASSlGK/ETb G?UITT CLEAR.LV 
Enp THT S'/'-LAtui Fo. Tt3Bi.y^
^ Irf ^<oFES50,'
/fc\ I \ i ICINJI 0f
fm\\\ W\ uf;_ am apl IW W Vi momeot!
I HM U 
i-c/KsotJ -n> 
BEUKviE ^
T>+#tT you 
Me (ttsfok)ii6Lf 
Ffl. T>VA-T 
YOVMfr LAby ! >
li +Val +Viv 
V\ou) Oow\e 
ncvjeC nL,9j
\ot-io 7 r
O^RtKT l HERC ue AR& AT A FANCY 
P/SP-TS.... MouJ HovJ vJ 'LW8Ut 
To DRlfJVC w\Trtt>JT SKC.\sv)As.rt 7\?CrOOj) HE^VEWSj + 
You'fte fclfrHT! c ^
/\wt>  wfti U^6(..IEJ5 h&cn;T
e,r9Cb iAy a*.if ,l
g4uIukUH4q guVEA fgNabU !PAR^io lU v zorr . boMoo msU1 m9lU h3i if wVVi*B -pA =>L\>Yt ^WeV ^ifS a. M 
d'Startce.....
STATISTICS iS
lS c^>u*.se,
FAR ys
PM5M
NOMSetJJE.' SST ft CoMSlfA*L-y 
NIaNBu grtYEt0nMgA fbUVMkIH. 
THE ptoBAIMHTY OF fC*lSl)fr 
IS Ov^lTC LOW.
&MHJ0 WH!WEer ~ioo

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

colle
giate
crossword
Edward Julius Collegiate CW8823
H12345678910
wm
i111213
161/
18{
22232425
2b2829
3031
3234
35363/38
39
404142
4344454647
48495051
52535455
b6575859
6U61
W
6263
MB
ACROSS48 Box 14 Girl in "The50 ApproachesGraduate"1 Gold, for one51 Sunlight15 Vendor6 Columbus's seaport52 Places20 Boston time (abbr.)11 Goblet54 Massachusetts cape23 Asian native13 Pain relievers55 Kosher24 Protects16 Gnawing animals56 English schoolboy27 George Burns1 prop17 Crawly creature58 Cotton cloth28 ---- system18 Priestly vestment60 A1luring31 Mend I19 Race-starter1s word61 Piano adjustments33 Campus room21 Flower part62 Took an oath35 Snoods (2 wds.)22 Very extensive63 Word in many36 Flips23 Zane Grey localescollege names37 North American25 Playwright Simondeer26 YoreDOWN38 Webster, et al.27 Saddle parts40 Think of it!"29 Compass point1 Oscar ----41 Uttering30 Capable of being2 Put in office42 Works for a winerystretched3 Sharp prong45 Spiritual session32 Weather outlook4 Statute46 Critic's term34 Mild expletive5 Diminished49 Continue a sub35 Molokai dance6 Entrancescription36 Like most streets7 Zoo attraction51 Pay39 Asian-language8 Edges53------Japanese Warspecialist9 Of a cereal55 Miss Wood43 Paddle10 Payment57 Car feature, for44 Harsher11 Necktieshort47 Pasture sound12 Reverence59 King ----
These are the 
answers to last 
issues's puzzle.
iH____
silQE qhhh eibbhs mm00013001300113 30000 E 3 El 13 EH II EIE! 00000000 0a0a_all EiBBBBBCiEiBSBGiasg 0113000 00063 ag|hbbb besbb aam23BB H000 ElHlESaa niDQi300a000iaEiEia|30000 . BE10 aa Q0B00. 'OHaaaa m 
B0Ba0dBi0Ei00a^ OQBH BBEiaB 0B|BBQD bbbbb aam

---------------------------------------------------

Kersplati
Urban Assault splashes 
onto the scene as the 
newest survival game
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Tartan Staffwriter
Rocky Palmieri crouches in the 
darkness, cradling his weapon in 
his aims, and allows his head no 
more than two inches exposure 
above the bunkers front wall. As
> scans the void in front of him, 
there is suddenly a shifting in the 
darkness, a barely discemable 
movement without form that 
Palmieri recognizes as an ap
proaching enemy.
Acting instinctively, he swings 
iis gun to eye level and squints 
down the length of the barrel into 
the inky blackness. He tenses his 
arms, jerks the trigger, and hears 
the familiar pop of discharge.
There is a distant thud, then a 
moments silence. By degrees, a 
pool of shadow transforms into a 
standing figure, arms raised high 
above its head. The form turns 
and trundles dispiritedly away, 
and Palmieri grins with the re
alization that he has wasted an
other mug who would have made 
off with his precious flag.
Is this some Vietnam drama 
that was showing on cable last 
Saturday? No. Apsychotic episode 
'of a retired veteran? More argu
able, but still no. This scene oc
curred in a region no more exotic 
than nearby McKees Rocks in the 
Urban Assault Paintball Arena.
Sprawled across an entire 
warehouse floor, Urban Assault 
provides a miniature labyrinth of 
pbstacles and barriers for up to 
twenty people to navigate as they 
ittempt to blast each other with 
an arsenal of paintgun weaponry.
A session lasts three hours, and 
consists of a series of short games, 
ranging from six to fifteen minutes 
each. Typical contests include 
variants on the traditional Cap
ture the Flag genre, and more 
advanced competitions like Route 
61 and The Gauntlet. But they all 
have one thing in common 
theres your team and theres their 
team, and all hell breaks lose 
when the twain meet.
Don your face mask and strap 
on your body armorthose 
paintballs travel at 170 miles an 
hour. You can opt for additional 
accessories like knee pads and 
neck guards if you want, but youd 
better be wearing camouflage 
black or you might as well go in 
naked.
The Arena is an audiovisual 
nightmare. Black lights bathe 
every wall and bunker, making 
the most innocuous of greys glow 
like Three Mile Island. Deafen
ing music booms from above, 
making communications with 
even your own team difficult to 
impossible.
Targeting the enemy while 
wearing your face mask is a chore 
in itself. You can count on your 
protective goggles to fog con
stantly, and you can kiss your 
peripheral vision goodbye as well.
This isnt a romp in your child
hood basement with cap pistols. 
Combat requires a delicate com
bination of instinct and skill 
instinct so that you can pick out 
members of the opposition who 
skulk through the shadows, and 
skill so you can successfully bring 
your weapon to bear and bathe
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor
lvms Rrli. BtD 0lvihsnD. Mtin polTtDr. YnAA Rrli. lvm rcis 2lIhtnDt. lIorSyo nhlDDlGGtvyIs mnAnlnm. TrGn hSco hrDn crvAtmnvIs olv 
on ronD nlhu
them in goo.
Your paintgun, an unwieldy 
metal annoyance when youre 
suiting up in the lobby, becomes 
your best friend in the field. You 
can bring a standard Splatmaster 
pistol with you into battle, or, if 
you feel more daring, take along a 
rapid firing Warrior or Phantom 
rifle instead. The weapons run on 
C02 cartridges and are fairly 
complicated, so be ready to deal 
with all the sundry details of com
bat, such as reloading and avoid
ing barrel jams that never seemed 
to bother John Wayne in The 
Longest Day.
If you blast an adversaryor 
an unfortunate teammatehell 
be banished from the Arena until 
the next game. But if you yourself
get nailed, be prepared to endure 
the embarrassment of trudging 
back to the lobby, hands raised 
high, while periodically shouting 
hit! above the din so that you 
arent inadvertently pelted on 
your way out.
Safety is certainly an issue, as 
is clear from the disclaimers that 
every participant is required to 
sign at the outset, and the staff of 
Urban Assault have strict regula
tions to prevent you from driving 
home with one of your eyes in 
your pocket. Goggles and protec
tive headgear ar e worn at all times 
during games, and headshots or 
attacks at point blank range are 
illegal. Dont expect your clothes 
to enjoy such concern for their 
Please see PAINTBALL, page L15
3pvlinz DtnAG lvms Rrli. rcis 2lIhtnDt. Mtin polTtDr. lvm YnAA 
Rrli ArD on STcrhtvy AtlGcrupp#r n+n tha hnmo nf Frances hottest drag queens
John Fobes/Pittsburgh Playhouse 
3 Za _kIIlv pn'nvG. jotn mDnGG#. lItlG kItv. TnDArDhG jto 3nG glynIInG7 tv on 
ittsburgh 2IlsorSGnwG 'nDGtrv rA La Cage Aux Folles.
By TERRI KASCH
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
What kind of place is La Cage Aux 
Folles? If you dont know already, youre 
in for quite a surprise.
La Cage Aux Folles is a French night 
club, a pleasure palace, a haven for both 
drag queens and show girls and anyone 
else desiring to live life on an angle.
La Cage Aux Folles is the kind of place 
where you can let go of your inhibitions, 
the kind of place where you can experi
ence something very different, the kind 
of place where every kick, stomp and 
swish is met with the clash of a cymbal, 
the beat of a drum, or the whistle of a 
flute.
La Cage Aux Folles is owned and oper
ated by two men, one transvestite ho
mosexual and one plain homosexual. 
The latter, Georges, acts as emcee to the 
evenings performances. His faithful 
companion of twenty years, Albin, takes 
the stage as the clubs top attraction, Za 
Za.
Due to a one night stand almost twentyfive years ago, Georges has a son, JeanMichel, who plans to marry the girl of his
 Theatre Review 
k gk5V k- E1Vpu The owner of a 
pleasure palace and his drag queen lover 
prepare to meet their in-laws-to-be. At the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Avenue, 
Oakland. Performances Tuesdays through 
Sundays until Novemeber 18. For informa
tion about tickets call 621-4445.
dreams, Anne. The only problem is that 
her father is a deputy who has made it 
his personal pledge to shut down the 
notorious establishments like La Cage 
Aux Folles. Before Annes parents will 
approve of the marriage, they want to 
meet Jean-Michels family. Georges can 
easily pass even the most diligent in
spection, but the innocent and wildly 
flamboyant Albin has to take lessons on 
being macho.
As Albin, Allan Stevens gives the kind 
of performance that most actors could 
only dream of achieving. While attempt
ing to be the kind of man that Annes 
parents would want in the family, he lets
Albins true character show through iri 
hundreds of ways that are so natural you 
could hardly imagine Stevens without 
the flouncy walk and falsetto voice.
While Albin allows himself to b6 
changed for his love of Jean-Michel, he 
does let go with a passionate, infuriated 
solo I am what I am. Stevens brings the 
house to tears as he cries, So what if I 
love each feather and each spangle/ Why 
not try to see things from a different 
angle?
Dennis Kelly gives a delightful perfor
mance as Georges. Not only does he lead 
the audience through each night at La 
Cage Aux Folles, he also acts a mediator 
between Albin and Jean-Michel. His most 
touching moments, however, are when 
he serenades Albin with Song on the 
Sand, an explanation of how Albin still 
sets his heart aflame after all their years 
together.
Tome Cousin portrays the crowdpleasing Jacob, an individual among in
dividuals. Jacob (who prefers to be called 
Claudine) must content himself with 
working as maid to Georges and Albin 
until he can persuade Georges to give 
Please see LA CAGE, page L15My Talk Show redefines the words stupidity and boredom
y A. FRANKLIN WHEELER
ai'tan Staffwriter
Back in 1977, Martin Mull, Fred 
1 lard, Norman Lear, and a lot 
; other big names, produced a 
tlce little program called 
ernwood 2Night. Set in the fic!10us small town of Fernwood, 
show had inane guests and 
ed on every talk show host 
m Merv Griffin to Johnny 
'arson. Mull played Barth 
rlmble, the host with a big ego 
U /?cfedibly poor fashion sense,
* Villard was his down-home 
Qekick, Jerry Hubbard.
,0r a f Americans, Barth
the gang provided the irrev6nce devil-may-care atti Television Review 
MR UkB pN1bu Monday through 
Friday at midnight, channel 53 
(WPGH). A talk-show "parody" from 
Derby, Wisconsin. Starring Cynthia 
Stevenson and Stephanie Hodge.
tude that was lacking in Mike 
Douglas and Dinah Shore. The 
production quality was (purpose
fully) low, but the show was funny
 and very weird. (By the way, 
repeats of Fernwood 2Night can 
be found on Nickelodeon weeknights at 10:30 pm.)
Fast-forward to 1990. Someone 
somewhere comes up with a bril
liant idea  an updated version 
of Fernwood 2Night. And so My 
Talk Show is bom.
Cynthia Stevenson portrays 
Jennifer Bass, a normal person 
who has been broadcasting a talk 
show from her living room on the 
local UHF station in Derby, Wis
consin.
Suddenly, and for no apparent 
reason, the show goes national in 
September 1990. Jennifer takes 
it in stride, letting her friends 
remain on the show while at the 
same time improving the caliber 
of her guests.
Jennifer is supposed to be an 
average American given an op
portunity a lot of us dream of 
her own nationwide talk show.
The level of dialogue here is insulting 
to a four-year-old.
Unfortunately, in an attempt to 
make her average, the producers 
have also made her boring. She 
says hello, says goodbye, smiles 
at the audience, and periodically 
asks an incredibly stupid ques
tion. Her charming, small-town 
innocence really begins to grate 
after a while.
Her sidekick, Angela Davenport 
(Stephanie Hodge), is Jennifers 
loud and obnoxious next-door 
neighbor. Shes completely 
wrapped up in herself and pre
tends to know a lot, although she 
probably hasnt wandered too far 
from Derby in her lifetime.
The guest on the show I viewed 
was record producer Frank DiLeo, 
who has a role in the movie 
GoodFellas. At the beginning of 
the program, Jennifer and Angela 
take some time for happy talk, 
and get onto the subject of 
GoodFellas. Turns out Jennifer 
hasnt seen the film because she 
doesnt like blood. But its only 
ketchup, scolds Angela. The dis
cussion eventually leads to this; 
gem: Angela says, Well, if your 
ketchup doesnt look like blood,; 
then theres something wrong 
with your ketchup! Arguably the; 
funniest line in the show.
DiLeo comes out, makes a joke; 
about the ketchup stain on his; 
shirt (yes, the ketchup/blood joke; 
becomes a central theme here,; 
dragged into the ground by the! 
shows end), shows a clip from', 
GoodFellas, and acts stupid. Then! 
one of Derbys firemen enters and! 
does a really bad Robert DeNiro! 
impression. Cut to commercial.
The next guest is a wonderful 
man from the zoo who brings with 
him three cute little triceratops
Please see TALK SHOW, page L15

---------------------------------------------------

Uon ASSDn rA lSrhrt'n 
nvytvnnDtvy tG crhtvy srSD jls!
Wednesday, November HFth Career Placement Office
Sign up at your Engineering Placement Office to meet 
with a representative of Ford Motor Company on 
Wednesday, November 14th and youll get a taste of the 
21st century. Our engineers use futuristic concepts and 
techniques to take automotive development into a 
new era.
Take a step toward tomorrow by joining us on campus if 
you are graduating with a BS or MS in Engineering 
(Electrical, Mechanical, Industrial). Representatives from
the following divisions will be on campus to discuss career 
opportunities with qualified and interested students:
 w Product Development
 Electronics Division
 Plastic and Trim Products Division
 Transmission and Chassis Division
Dont miss this unique opportunity to take your talents 
into the future with Ford Motor Company. Join us on 
Wednesday, November 14th. We look forward to 
meeting you!
All engineering students are invited to an informal information session and mixer in 
Porter Hall, Room 125C, from 6:30-9:00 p.m., Tuesday, November 13th. 
Refreshments will be provided.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990LL3
What will the future be like? 
For years, writers of all genres 
have been answering that ques
tion in hundreds of different ways. 
Ah, but youve seen it all before, 
ol'nvw you? Getting kind of jaded 
by the whole future thang? I mean 
hoW many times are you going to 
read about aliens from Mars or 
rhtmarish Orwellian societies? 
youre ready for something 
jompletely different, then get 
ready for writer/artist Mark 
Kchultz independent comics 
masterpiece Xenozoic Tales.
picture this: Youre the Earth, 
and youre sick of having these 
ittle warm-blooded, five-fingered 
jnats running all over your face.
years, theyve been sticking 
straws in your cheek to suck out 
ilack lymph, chopping off your 
nbrant green arm hair so they 
light fires, and peeling your 
skin to clear the way for concrete 
;attoos. And if thats not bad 
nough, theyre polluting your 
deep blue blood with their vile 
Wage, making you go bald by 
jashing the ozone and gain 
weight by melting the ice caps! 
Heck, if I were a planet I 
vouldnt take that kind of abuse. 
So whats a planet to do? Have a 
cataclysmic earthquake and a few
Cadillacs and dinosaurs clash in Xenozoic Tales
COMIC RELIEF
by Waseem Hussain
tidal waves to wipe the slate clean 
and teach those egocentric jeanclad diploid buggers a lesson in 
respect, thats what!
Evidently, thats exactly what 
happened to those nutty humans 
in Xenozoic Tales. After a trau
matic cataclysm of unimaginable 
proportions, most of mankind has 
been wiped out. A handful of hu
mans who survived the revamp
ing of the Earth have come out 
after six generations of hiding out 
underground, and established 
civilization once again amidst the 
haunting ruins of 20th century 
architecture. No countries exist 
any more. Humanity now con
sists of a bunch of scattered tribes.
And thats not the only thing 
thats different. Humanity is no 
longer at the top of the food chain
 it now has to compete with 
dinosaurs!
Forget worrying about the birds 
messing up the sidewalk, now 
youve gotta worry about ptero
dactyls. Rome has got to be the 
smelliest place on this future 
Earth, thats for sure! No more 
family picnics, geez, in this world 
the family is the picnic! Har!
The atmosphere created by 
Xenozoic Tales exaggerates the 
relationship between man and 
nature to the point where the 
subtle becomes obvious. In this 
world, man is just another multicellular organism, subject to the 
same laws of parasitism, mutual
ism, and communalism as other 
animals. Writer Mark Schultz 
goes to great lengths to structure 
the world so that there is a sense 
of balance. Dinosaurs have teeth, 
and people still have guns. The 
presence of weapons in this world 
serves to set the stage for many 
interesting conflicts in which the 
nature of the balance of nature is 
the central theme.
Regardless of how interesting 
the background may be, no book 
can truly succeed without a rich 
pool of characters to make the 
stories work. The hero of this fu
ture world is Jack Tenrec, part 
Indiana Jones, partTarzan, and 
part Cooter, the fuzzy mechanic
1990 Mark Schultx
0tvrGlSDG. ySvG. lvm mnlo  ro hs! k mls tv ItAn tv Xenozoic Tales.
from Dukes ofHazzard. Hes kind 
of like the town sheriff, environ
mentalist, and protector of all 
creatures great and small all 
rolled up into one Caucasian 
crepe.
Jacks also the owner of the most 
sophisticated piece of machinery 
in this world of tomorrow; a revved 
up, four-wheel-drive, all-terrain 
1950 Cadillac convertible. Our pal 
asks for nothing in return except 
spare parts for his baby.
Then theres Hannah Dundee, 
ambassador from the tribe of the 
Wassoon. Shes a level-headed, 
resourceful, black-maned gal on a 
diplomatic mission to Jacks tribe, 
which is located somewhere near 
Manhattan. Hannah serves as our 
eyes and ears in Jacks world: We
learn about him and his ethics 
from her adventures with him. 
Shes the doorway to the plots 
about human interactions and 
politics as well, and probably the 
character you will find yourself 
identifying with the most.
Hannah and Jack, along with 
an interesting cast of supporting 
characters, give Schultz world of 
Cadillacs and dinosaurs a depth 
and dimension that not many 
other alternate world stories have.
From an artistic point of view, 
this book is superb. Schultzs art 
is detailed and dense. He has a 
wonderful sense of texture and is 
especially strong in establishing 
picturesque, wide-angle scenes. 
The art, as well as the writing, 
have a nostalgic fifties feel that
gives the book a dreamy, timeless 
quality. The book is top-notch and 
has been nominated for several 
awards since it came out.
The only major problem with 
this independent comic is its in
frequency. The last new issue 
came out last spring, and such a 
fragmented publishing schedule 
hurts it terribly. There is a way 
around that for new readers, 
thoughin fact there are a couple 
of ways.
One is a collected hardback that 
allows you to read several issues 
all at once. This is probably the 
most convenient way for anyone 
to get access to this book, although 
it is a little expensive.
Another route is to catch the 
monthly reprints from Epic 
Comics. The reprints are titled 
Cadillacs and Dinosaurs and re 
presented in color, a great bonus 
to readers new and old since the 
original series is in black and 
white.
And one final option is, if yoifre 
illiterate, to wait for some Holly
wood producer to make this book 
into a movie. Just a thought. 
Tartan Senior Staff writer 
Waseem Hussain is a junior biol
ogy major.
Adopt a copy of Skinny Puppys latest LP Too Dark Park
By DEXTER T. KOBAYASHI
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Ifyou happen to be in the market 
for something relaxing, for 
omething truly thought-proroking, or for the deep musical 
complexity thats been mis sing in 
all your other music, Skinny 
'uppy is most likely not what 
roure looking for.
If, on the other hand, youre 
ooking for something that will 
set your grandmothers pacehaker on overdrive, Too Dark 
>ark might be for you.
Skinny Puppy returns. The 
jroup whose music  using the 
erm music in its broadest sense
- can only be called industrial, 
eturns with more of the stuff 
hat makes Skinny Puppy what it
Skinny Puppy returns with 
lore lines like, Oaaauuuhhthuuuueeee and more obscure 
uotes like, He is intensely, exremely, terribly uncomfortable. 
The first line is from Shoreline 
oison, on side two of the groups 
ew release, Too Dark Park. 
kinny Puppy describes the LP 
an audio sculpture, which is 
)rtunate because there arent any 
ther descriptions which easily
 Record Review 
???1/2 U11 0kB 2kBu By
Skinny Puppy.
pop to mind when hearing Con
vulsions or Tormentor.
The aforementioned two audio 
sculpture pieces give the LP a 
good beginning, relying on the 
same tricks used on previous 
Skinny Puppy LPs: lots of syn
thesized drum, lots of distorted 
voice-overs, lots of distortion in 
general, and an extremely harsh 
overall tone.
Like the title suggests, Tor
mentor creates mental images of 
someone tormenting or someone 
being tormented. However, Tor
mentor is almost subtle com
pared to Convulsions.The drum 
track is less pronounced and the 
melody, which is similar to the 
one in Convulsions, comes 
through much nicer.
But neither of the next two 
pieces, Spasmolytic and Rash 
Reflection, can be thought of as 
subtle. Rash Reflection is diffi
cult to understand, even by 
Skinny Puppy standards.
The last song on side one, titled
Natures Revenge, is somewhat 
surprising in the fact that it has a 
hauntingly sad melody. The last 
line sounds like, Scared? You 
really are? Its almost as if Skinny 
Puppy were trying to say, Hey 
look, this groups not all hard edge 
and synthesizers, weve got feel
ings and a sensitive side, too. 
Nah, couldnt be.
Shoreline Poison, from the 
second side of the LP, starts off 
sounding like the string section 
from an orchestra and works its 
way into a highly distorted drum 
beat. Throughout the rest of the 
song, it seems as if the classical 
stringtheme is trying to be heard, 
but gets drowned out by every
thing else.
It's almost as if Skinny Puppy were 
trying to say; Hey look, this group's 
not all hard edge and synthesizers, 
weve got feelings and a sensitive 
side, too.
The next song, Grave Wisdom, 
is the most focused song on the 
album. Not-un-til-they-aredead, is repeated quite a few 
times along with some other lines 
which are pretty much indis
cernible. The whole song is played 
in a minor key with lots of dis
cordant notes.
The next song is titled, 
T.F.W.O. Why? Who knows?
Its really strange, which is 
about all that can be said about it.
Morpheus Laughing, how
ever, has lots that can be said 
about it. It sounds like a 
soundtrack from a sci-fi horror 
flick with Darth Vaders hyperac
tive nephew on speed doing a nar
rative on the futility of life. Then 
again, it might not. It depends bn 
your point of view.
The last song, Reclamation, 
provides a suitable ending for tjie 
album. It has very few words, yet 
it manages to convey a sense!of 
finality that many songs lack. All 
this in only three minutes  the 
shortest piece on Too Dark Park.
Skinny Puppy is definitely riot 
party music, unless you throw 
very odd parties. But if you evier 
happen to be in that lets-getpsycho mood, Too Dark Park', is 
what you want.
Its lots of fun, and if you dont 
take it too seriously, it souricls 
pretty good. !
Rea Coffeehouse at 
Chatham College
Featuring live band, free refreshments, poetry, 
open platform. Free to all. Open to all.
Friday, November 9 9 pm to 3 am
uassin 
trccoeo
,y Music
150 Weal 85th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10024 
212-580-0210 
800-292-3040
mMiaaai
i
The latest looks for him and her. Soft and shaped. Updated. Now. Cuts that move with body and volume. Sophisticated style from our experts.
EXPECTATIONS
GET WHAT you EXPECT
----Mon-Fri10-7fron^theOakland Post Office Sat 9-6
I , $2.00 Off 1 Free Hair Consultation 
I On a Precision Haircut I Aiso Available:ompiete with wash & style)  Perms  Frosting
expires 11/30/90 I  Conditioning Coloring
L ^UST,HAVE COUPON Jj SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
MANNES.
Artistry & Community
Hi At Mannes they go together. The skills, understanding and originality 
of artistry are fostered by a superb faculty in a caring and supportive 
community. MM Thats why Mannes graduates succeed.
1991 AUDITIONS
NEW YORK CITY: January 7, 1991; March 5, 6, 7, 8, 1991; May 21, 22, 23, 24, 1991; August dates 
to be announced. LOS ANGELES, CA.: February 4, 5, 1991 at The Music Center of Los Angeles Countv. 
DALLAS-FT. WORTH, TEXAS: February 6,1991 at Orchestra Hall, Forth Worth. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS: 
. February 8, 1991 at Curtiss Hall, Fine Arts Building.
Call 800-292-3040 or 212-580-0210 for application, audition appointment and additional information about the College.
Hiroko Yajima. Vic/in Steven Tenenbom. Viola Timothy Eddy. Violoncello The Mannc* Trio Hiroko Yajtma. Violin Melissa Meell. Violoncello Diane Wjlih. Piano The New man-Oltman
Michael Newman Laura Oltman PIANO Edward Aldvy^ll Arkady Aronov David Bar*lllan Claude Frank Richard Goode Jeannette Haien Grant Johannesen Lilian Kallir Leon Pommers Marie Powers Josef Raieir Peter Serkin Nina Svetlanova Diane Walsh ORGAN and CHURCH MUSIC Ford Lallerstedt McNeil Robinson William Whitehead TIMPANI and PERCUSSION Norm Freeman Norman Grossman Howard Van Hyning Walter Rosenberger HARPGlona Agostini Lucile Lawrence
STRINGEDINSTRUMENTSNina Beilina. Violin Isidore Cohen, Violin Alexander Cores. Violin Felix Galmir. Violin Shirley Givens. Violin Lewis Kaplan. Violin Am Kavafian. Violin David Nadien. Violin Aaron Rosand. Violin Dora Schwaruberg. Violin Sally Thomas. Violin Hiroko Yajima. Violin Lillian Fuchs. Viola Rosemary Glyde. Violo Karen Ritscher. Viola Steven Tenenbom. Viola Walter Trampler. Viola Timothy Eddy. Violoncello Melissa Mfell. Violoncello Paul Tobias. Violoncello Peter Wiley. Violoncello Julius Levine. Doable Boss Homer Mensch. Double Ban WOODWIND and BRASS Judith Mendenhall. Flute Thomas Nyfenger. flute Laura Ahlbeck. Oboe Elaine Douvas. Oboe John Fernllo. Oboe Mark Hill. Oboe William Blount. Clarinet Gervase de Peyer. Clarinet Peter Smenauer. Clarinet David Carroll, Bossoon Harold Goltzer. Sassoon Leonard Hindell, Bosioon Judith LeClair. Bosioon Allen Won. Saiophone Ranier Delntims. French Horn David Jolley. French Horn Philip Myers. French Horn Mel Broiles. Trumpet Vincent Pcniarella. Trumpet James Smith. Trumpet Joe Alessi. Trombone Per Brevig, Trombone Donald Harwood. Bois Trombone Stephen Johns. Tuba
CLASSICAL GUITAREliot Fisk Frdric Hand Herbert Levine Michael Newman David Starobm VOICE Richard Barrett Charles Bressler Thomas Cultice Peter Elkus
Dan Marek Marian Thompson Theodor Uppman 
O4 q5INTERPRETATIONAntonia lavanne DICTIONNico Caitcl. French.Germon, and Italien Kathryn LaBouff. English OPERAPaul Echols. Chairman Chnstopher Alden Renato Capecchi Will Crutchfield Joan Dornemann Benton Hess Valry Ryvkin
MOVEMENT
CONTEMPORARYENSEMBLEMadeleine Shapiro, Director COMPOSITION Charles Jones David Loeb David Tcimpidis Frederick Werlc
CONDUCTING
TECHNIQUES OF MUSICElizabeth Aaron Edward Aid we II Poundie Burstem Terry Champlin Robert Cuckson Leo Edwards Steven Freides David Gagne Charles Jones Ford Lallerstedt Larry Laskowski David Loeb Mei Met Meng Wiliam Needelman Frank Nemhauser
Carl Schachter David Stem Frederick WerleHISTORICAL PERFORMANCE ENSEMBLESThe Mannes Baroque Chamber Players.Nancy Wilson. Director The Mannes Camerata.Paul Echols. Director The Mannes Renaissance Band.Benjamin Peck. Director HISTORY and LITERATURE OF MUSIC Frederic Fehleisen. M A .History of Muvc Deborah Davis. M A . M S..Graduate Studies L M.chael Griffel. Ph D, Groduote Studies. Literature of Music Charles Kaufman. Ph D.History of Music Kenneth Stern. Ph.D Studies in Opera History
PROGRAMS OF STUDY Bachelor of Music. Bachelor of Science. Master of Music. Diploma and Posl- Craduate Diploma, Professional Studies Certificate. 
MAJOR STUDIES All orchestral instruments, piano, harpsichord, organ, voice and opera, guitar, composition, theory and conducting.
DORMITORY ROOMS.
SCHOLARSHIPS AWARDED/ALL MAJORS.
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
Write or call Ms. Marilyn Groves. Director of Admissions. The Mannes College of Music.150 West 85th Street. New York. N.Y. 1002-t. 800-292-3040 or 212-580-0210.
A division of the New School for Social Research

---------------------------------------------------

ORCHESTRATING DESIGN SOLUTIONS
Thursday, November 8 
8:00 p.m. Skibo Ballroom
Darol Anger 
David Balakrishnan
Mark Summer 
Katrina Wreede
-h
m=gie-nailon
Jazz: it's nothing like mutant ninjas
Tickets available at Skibo information desk 
$3 with CMU i.d. 
$7 for all others
WYETQIJFMhear toe difference
JAM SESSION
^On-Campus Jam Session On-Campus Interviews
Decembcr4, H,,4 Decembcr 5, 1990
In 1782, in the court of Emperor Joseph II, a brash young composer named Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart set the music world on its ear. A radical departure from the current fashion in music, he set a new standard for style and composition.
It has always been sothe old guard surpassed by 
a new wave. Today, Cadence is breaking with the conventional order as we pioneer a new way of designing the next generation of electronic products. Its called Electronic Product Development Automation (EPDA) and, led by Cadence, its the direction the industry is heading. Automation on a task by task basis was good enough for the last decade; the 1990s call for automation beyond that level. Designers need a process that encompasses the total product development cycle.
EPDA represents Cadences vision of how product design needs to be done in the 1990s. Were already an established leader in supplying what 
designers need at the Electronic Design Automation (EDA) stage of product development thanks to our pioneering Design Framework 11 architecture and 
the high-performance suite of tools based on that integrated system. Our aim for the coming decade is to leverage our proven EDA technology to offer a complete, integrated EPDA solution.
But EPDA is more than just a technological vision. Cadences long-standing philosophies of openness, software portability, support of industry standards,
and cooperation with other technology innovators also play a key role in our drive toward providing a total solution and set ours apart from traditional approaches.
What all this means for you is the opportunity to join the vanguard of design automation. You can 
begin contributing your ideas from day one, as you participate in a creative process infused with intelligence, enthusiasm, and personal commitment.
When you begin your job search, consider Cadence. And if you're graduating in any of the following areas, dont miss our on-campus jam session and interviews.
EE, CS, Computer Engineering
BS, MS, PhD with UNIX* and C programming experience required. CAD/CAE software experience on a UNIX-based workstation a plus.
CADENCE
Cadence Design Systems, Inc.555 River Oaks ParkwayJob CMUNJCSan Jose, CA 95134
We are an equal opportunity employer.
UNIX is a registered trademark of AT&T.
woman it s poor eyesight, for someone else it might be arthritis' or maybe they just cant cope. The \ fact is, last year F million Americans \ got the help they needed from IRS Volunteer Assistance Programs.If you have the desire to help and a basic aptitude for math, you j could become a part of the IRS Volunteer Assistance Programs.The programs are year-round and open to any organization, company or individual that would like to give something back to their community. The training is free and the rewards are enriching.So volunteer and call H 844 FPF-H4F4. Beginning October H,H,,4, please call H844 8P,-H4F4.
Volunteer and help make someones 
taxes less taxing.
a piece of tape up to your eyes, dim the lights and try to fill out your taxes.
Now youre seeing things from her point of view.
A Public Service of KWl RevlnueThis Publication &asService

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990
Get the proton pack ready  Ghostbusters is here
Youve seen the movie, watched 
the TV show, and eaten the 
breakfast cereal  and now you 
can play game. Thats right, 
iow you can call the Ghostbusters 
)n your Genesis entertainment 
system.
Believe it or not, this version of 
Ghostbusters has taken almost 
qo elements from the last two 
piovies. True, the Stay-Puft 
yjarshmallow Man makes an 
appearance, as well as the ghost 
jlimer, but other than these two 
fellows (and the Ghostbusters 
ihemselves) this game is surjrisingly original. In matter of 
act, if Sega wanted to, it probably 
iould have saved a lot of money by 
jot purchasing the rights to 
ghostbusters and just come out 
vith the same game under a dif
ferent name.
Anyhow, as if you couldnt guess, 
he main goal of this game is to 
)Ust ghosts. But before you go 
:harging up your proton pack, 
you have to choose which characer you wish to play. Your choices 
onsist of Peter, Raymond, or Egon 
why isnt Winston included?), 
rhere is a small difference beween each characters speed and
PRESS START
by Stephen Glicker
stamina, but basically theyre all 
the same. After youve selected 
your character you better get that 
proton pack ready  its 
showtime!
In the beginning of the game 
you have four ghost-infested 
buildings to choose from: A sweet 
little home infested with polter
geists, an apartment which for 
some reason is frozen like an ice 
cube, a large wooden house cur
rently engulfed in flames, and a 
high-rise building filled with wa
ter.
In order to complete each 
building you have to first navigate 
through and around several small, 
pitiful ghosts, then get rid of two 
or three middle ghosts (ghosts 
which are fairly powerful and 
usually do a good job of weaken
ing you), and then finally get rid 
of the boss ghost (a really nasty 
guy). Only then can you call the 
building ghost-free.
Your reward for this taxing job 
is what any hard working 
Ghostbuster should expect  
money. However, dont go run
ning to the bank just yet, for you 
know what they sayeasy come, 
easy go (and go it does).
You see, right down the street 
is a convenient item shop, where 
you can buy things such as bombs 
andinfrared scopes, and a weapon 
shop which carries the standard 
fare  energy tanks, bubble pro
jectiles, phaser shells, 3-way 
shots, special suits  the kind of 
stuff you would find in any old 
weapon shop. Anyhow, this stuff 
is all really expensive and, of 
course, necessary if you want to 
win the game.
Also, after you liquidate the 
boss ghost you will find a piece 
of a mysterious stone tablet. Get 
four of these tablets and you can 
solve the riddle why the city has 
become infected with ghosts, as 
well as take a trip to two new 
huge levels  a haunted house 
and the ghost capital of the uni
verse, where youll need all of 
that expensive equipment if want 
to survive.
As for the graphics and sound, 
Ghostbusters excels. Music and 
visuals are also top-notch. Each 
level is a complete world unto, 
itself, with a unique personality 
that is consistent throughout the 
building.
Take for example the frozen 
apartment. In this level the main 
boss ghost consists of a killer 
snowman who throws deadly 
carrot noses at you. And when 
your ghostbuster takes a breath 
on this level, you can see it.
Or take the home sweet home 
level, which is infested with pol
tergeists. Cups, saucers, knifes, 
and forks dance around the place 
and attack you, trying to make 
you their next meal. Tables float 
everywhere and tablecloths come 
to life and try to smother you. 
Even the chandeliers arent safe 
on this level.
One can easily see by playing, 
or even looking at this game, that 
Sega has gone through a lot of 
trouble to make the graphics in 
Ghostbusters as detailed and re
alistic as possible.
Paintball games 
arrive in Pittsburgh
AINTBALL, from page Lll
velfare, however. If you have any 
iin at all, youll be leaving the 
^rena splotched with pink.
The thrill of victory is ostensiily worth it. Drenched in sweat 
ind grime from the Arena walls 
md floors, Palmieri, who speaks 
nly in rhyme, spares a few secnds to describe his most recent 
xploits. I was moving quiet/I 
idnt want to incite a riot/But 
hey started shootin/So I started 
botin/I grabbed the flag fast/ 
3ause I was the last/And I made 
back/Cause Im quick as fu:'::k, 
[ack.
This is an experience I would 
lost definitely repeat, comments 
irt Dankmyer, one of his team
mates. But not with the same 
:oup of people. He gives an acling stare at his colleagues beire returning to his preparations 
[r the next game.
1 like shooting people, reflects 
'arrior on the other team.
'hat sort of people come to 
ban Assault? We get all sorts 
people, says one of the staff
ly Talk Show
members, We have paramedics 
come in, we have some policemen. 
People bring, their relatives in to 
shoot them, people bring their 
bosses in to shoot them.... Weve 
had a husband and wife team in 
here  women against the men.
Carnegie Mellon students are 
no strangers to Urban Assault 
either. We get quite a lot of CMU 
people, observes Mark Francis, 
the owner. CMU students are a 
very distinguished crowd, and 
obviously choose the best things 
in life, he adds with a smirk.
And, as you might expect, the 
best things in life dont come free. 
Admission is a somewhat exorbi
tant $20 base charge per person. 
The price covers gun rental and 
basic equipment; ammunition and 
C02 cartridges beyond the initial 
allotment cost you extra. Expect 
to spend a few dollars more if you 
want the better weaponry, as well. 
Fortunately, the price drops to a 
group discount rate of $12 per 
head if you can find a total of ten 
people to drag into the fray.
Urban Assault runs sessions
really dumb
SHOW, from page LllftLK SHOW, from page Lll
ho are basically dinosaur verJpns of Teddy Ruxpin. The level 
|dialogue here is insulting to a 
p-year-old.
fter the third (fourth?) com
mercial break (yet another ad for 
jfomens Secret Phone Confes|ns), Marty, Jennifers slimy 
jother-in-law, comes in dressed 
gangster. He  compliments 
Leo (receiving the obligatory 
junt in return) and acts suitably
nyJJust when we think that we 
pe hit the bottom, that the situjion cannot possibly get any 
|rse, who should walk in but  
guessed it  Dr. Bob the 
Ipno-sex therapist. From this 
lint the show degenerates into a 
ptmual barrage of sexual inps, most of them rude, and none 
|them funny.
s*y Talk Show tries to satire the 
Jk genre. But to be successful, a 
jjtire must be funny  at least a 
This show is nothing but,d.
/Jus theres the issue of time. In 
|'7, Fernwood 2Night was 
Tny and successful. But somenS big, something monumeni happened between 1977 and 
|90: Late Night with David 
ennan premiered. Lets face
Daveconstantly makes fun of
le entire talk 'show thing
pybe he was inspired by Mar^ and the Fernwood gang). So
lere s ^eady a successful talk- jowpardy on ^ LL,d can
y oik Show hope to compete?
pkU-0kR. q1LVM:V 17
is COLLEGE NIGHT at the circus!
The smells, sights and sounds of The Ringling Bros, and Barnum & 
Bailey Circus will fill the Pittsburgh Civic Arena November HK  H8.H,,4 and Saturday, November HZ is COLLEGE NIGHT. You and your friends get two dollars off the price of any ticket!! Just redeem this coupon at the Civic Arena Box Office and come one, come all to The Greatest Show on Earth, November HZ.H,,4 at Z$K4 PM!
Dont miss your last opportunity to see Gunther Gebel-Wllliams, the 
greatest wild animal trainer of all time!
Limit One Ticket Per Coupon
Good for the Saturday, November 17th performance ONLY. Coupon redeemable at the Civic Arena Box Office ONLY.
courtesy Sega 
The music probably could have 
sounded a bit better, but at least 
it does something that a lot of 
other games dont easily accom
plish  its enjoyable to listen to. 
Each level has its own music and 
I have yet to become bored with 
any one levels music after months 
of playing.
As for game play, it isnt all that 
difficult, but its still difficult
enough. Even on the easy level 
this game takes a good hour of so 
to solve. Its also probably a good 
thing to mention the fact that 
Ghostbusters has a continue fea
ture which will allow you to con
tinue playing after you die. How
ever, it only works nine times, so 
you still have to be careful.
So, even if you never saw the 
movie, found the TV show to be 
silly, or thought that the breakfast 
cereal was just plain too soggy, 
buy Ghostbusters. Its probably 
the best looking game currently 
available for the Genesis and 
definitely one of the best overall.
For the final evaluation, on. a 
scale of one to ten, I give t}he 
graphics a nine, the sound a)nd 
music an eight, the playability !an 
eight, and the originality a nrfre. 
Overall I give Ghostbusters n 
eight and a half.
Tune in next week and find cjut 
what new game Ive wasted ijiy 
money on.
Tartan Diversions Editpr 
Stephen Glickers secret dream\ is 
to become a Ghostbuster and wear 
one of those really neat looking 
proton packs.
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor 
lvms Rrli lvm BtD 0lvihsnD ySlDm ontD TrGGu
weeknights at 7:30 pm, and sev- to prospective CMU warriors, a 
eral times during the day and staffmember responds, Hey, you 
evening on weekends. The Arena know, feel free.... If you can get 
is located in McKees Rocks, half the money, come and play. 
an hours drive from CMU. Call He pauses, glancing at the post331-1080 for reservations and di- game carnage around him. And 
rections to the Arena. wear black, he adds as an afterAsked for some words of advice thought.
La Cage Aux Folles 
romps at Playhouse:
LA CAGE, from page Lll
him a shot out on stage. Cousins 
remarkable work keeps the au
dience laughing no matter how 
sad the story gets.
In the part of Jean-Michel, Brett 
Kennedy must play the straight 
man in more ways than one. As 
one of the rare heterosexuals, 
Kennedy is allowed few great 
lines, but he does keep his charac
ter lively through this difficult 
position.
As wonderful as the cast and 
the story of their characters lives 
are, this show is at its gaudy, 
racy, hysterical best during the 
clubs numbers, which include a 
fabulous can-can dance by a few 
of Les Cagelles. Other unforget
table moments include the song 
Masculinity, in which the shows 
men try to teach Albin all the 
proper male movements, and the 
spirited number The Best of 
Times.
But the greatest thing about 
this show is that the message it 
delivers comes with lots of laugh
ter. This musical is not about the
plight of homosexuals or trans
vestites. It is simply a play aboiit 
differences and the need for ev
eryone to celebrate their ownliv^s 
and their own unique selves. | 
So, what kind of play is La Cage 
AuxFolles? The kind of play wheije 
each note has to be higher an|d 
louder than the last, each encoije 
has to be brighter and glitzier 
than before, until the curtaijn 
comes crashing down and th|e 
audience is left on its feet, ap
plauding.
It brings out the best in all of us.
-vtnm L\ls
Join the partySee the years most 
acclaimed movie!
JUST ABOUT PERFIiCT...marvelously literate, 
comic and romantic.
Peter Travers. Rolling Slone
tPPPPmLowhLlfc wya blyaWhSfo,,,
I absolutely loved it.
-Rex Reed. Ai (he Movies
A DISARMING AND DELIGHTFUL COMEDY.
-David Ansen. Newsweek
RICH AND NUTTY...a fine new film by a fine 
new director.
- Vincent Canby, New York times
FILM REPERTORY
...A Point Pork Collega Tradition'
Time:
Admission:
Opens:
Telephone:

---------------------------------------------------

LL6 , The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990
V. The power to be your best
' Macintosh Classic computers purchased belore January 1991 include system software on tloppy disks, software is not installed 
c B001 Apple Computer. Inc Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc SuperDnve and The 
power to be your best" are trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc MS DOS 
is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation OS2 :s a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation
polIIrj colDlcnDG hlin ArD l GolIIrj AtIh
By MARNI BOREK
Tartan Staffwriter
Snotty people, champagne, and 
superficial love triangles are 
something the American public 
has become accustomed to. Weve 
_ watched the nighttime soaps and 
Seen the The Donald become a 
"'little promiscuous with women
 6'ther than Ivana. How much more 
' 'Of these fictional and real-life sto< ries of the rich and famous can we 
'Absorb?
* Apparently there are some des
perate movie producers out there 
Who strongly believe that they 
6an still spoonfeed this material istic storyline to moviegoers. One
 Of these substance-lacking films 
1 is Metropolitan.
 Metropolitan is a comedy/ 
drama which is somewhat mod' eled after the similarly themed 
novel The Great Gatsby by F. Scott 
1 Fitzgerald. While Gatsby displays 
the myriad of expensive books in 
Ids libraryall of which he hasnt 
read  Metropolitan characters 
such as Tom Townsend (Edward 
' Clements) show off their dashing 
expensive tuxedos, all of which 
are rented. Everyone involved 
portrays someone he or she really 
isnt.
1 The movie chronicles the life 
and times of a group of young 
Park Avenue socialites who 
gather nightly to discuss their 
lives, their view of honor, and the 
slow demise of young arrogant 
snobs like themselves. Damn, 
there goes the market for caviar!
Breaking into the circle of 
stockmarket supporters is Tom, 
the only man the group has known 
to come from what the group feels 
is the socially warped West Side. 
Because there is an unequal 
fiumber of men and women in the 
lique, Tom is accepted into the 
group by its arrogant yet kindly
 Movie Review 
?1/2 MVU121fUkqu The life, 
times and struggles of young 1960s 
socialites who thrive on discussing 
their materialistic views. At the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft 
Avenue, Oakland, from November 9 
to December 6.
leader Nick Smith (Christopher 
Eigeman) and the charmless but 
well-dressed Audrey Rouget 
(Carolyn Farina). After all, for 
public appearances it is absolutely 
necessary for an uppercrust fe
male to have a handsome man at 
her side  even if he doesnt have 
an American Express gold card.
Other members of the group 
include Charlie Spengler (Taylor 
Nichols), who does everything but 
plant kisses on Audreys derriere 
to catch her attention; Cynthia 
McLean (Isabel Gillies), the 
groups budding Marilyn Monroe; 
Jane Clarke (Allison RutledgeParisi), the judgmental and pre
cocious member of the group (aka 
bitch); Sally Fowler (Dylan 
Hundley), the hostess of all the 
groups philosophical discussions; 
and Fred Neff (Bryan Leder), who 
spends most of his time wisely 
catching up on sleep during dis
cussions.
While the group holds heated 
debates on which New York res
taurant serves the best filet mignon, Audrey finds herself falling 
in love with Tom. However, Toms 
heart has been snatched away in 
his prom years by sophisticated 
debutante of the year, Serena 
Slocum (ElizabethThompson). He 
claims that he is no longer at
tracted to her, but he thinks of 
little else. When Serena begins to 
return Toms affection, Tom be
comes more comfortable with the
flashy world he has been drawn 
into.
The plot simply doesnt work. 
The characters are stereotypical 
and the style of the film is a rerun. 
In past years, we have seen mov
ies about social climbers and the 
various problems of those whose 
wallets are always filled with 
cash.
These films include Less Than 
Zero and almost every John 
Hughes/Molly Ringwald movie 
ever made. The rich versus the 
poor versus who has the most 
expensive Chanel suit has become 
almost as lame as the disease-ofthe-week dramas on television.
The film also attempts to focus 
exclusively on the members of the 
social group. This idea worked 
only once before* in the film The 
Breakfast Club. Let us make some 
comparisons:
First of all, The Breakfast Club 
had some very talented actors and 
actresses. The Metropolitan cast 
consists of first-time movie actors 
who look as if they want to go 
back into their trailers and drink 
throughout the entire movie. The 
directors should have provided 
several happy hours before al
lowing such cast members as Ed
ward Clements and Carolyn Fa
rina to act like limp linguini on 
the big screen.
Also, The Breakfast Club deals 
with one setting  a school li
brary. It is easier with this set
ting to go into depth with char
acter analysis.
The settinginMetropolitan gets 
too complex with the apartment 
scenes, the morbidly boring cab 
rides to the South Hamptons, and 
the already seen on postcards 
Christmas Eve service at St. 
Thomas Episcopal Church, 
Scribners bookstore, and the 
Horn & Hardart Automat.
The filmmaker also seems a bit
:Dslv nmnD. VmjlDm gInhnvG. fGlnI 5tIItnG. 0sIlv NSvmIns. goDtGrTonD Vtynhlv. lvm kIItGrv SInmyn 
2lDtG! tvmSIyn tv l ylhn rA GDtT TrinD jotIn UlsIrD qtcorIG lvm glDrIsv ElDtvl TDnAnD conGGu
too interested in the trial and what is socially acceptable, you rehashed over and over ag. 
error process offlagging down cabs feel self-conscious taking out your word of advice: buy a take-ou 
on busy Manhattan streets. wallet and paying to see Metro- order of caviar and save up f0 
With all the talk of money and politan, a movie that has been that Chanel suit instead.
No Experience Necessary.
Production. An excellent opportunity to:
 Work behind the scenes at The Tartan
 Learn desktop publishing skills
 Shape the look of our ads
 See your work in print
Working production is not a big time committment, and its a lot of fun.
fA srS lDn tvnDnGnm rD jlv hrDn 
tvArDhltrv. crvlc :no MrGnG l 
Uon UlDlv rAAtcn _pitr O4# PHHHuTHE TARTAN
Trying to stretch dollars when youre computer shopping doesnt mean youre willing to make sacrifices.Thats why you should consider the new, affordable Macintosh Classic computer.It has everything you needincluding a monitor, keyboard, mouse, P megabytes of RAM, and a F4-megabyte hard disk. Just plug everything in and the Macintosh Classic is ready to run, because the system software is already installed! And, thanks to the Macintosh computer's legendary ease of use, youll be up and running in no time.like every Macintosh, the Classic can run thousands of available applications that all work in the same, consistent wayso once youve learned one program, youre well on your way to learning them all. And this is one cheap roommate that doesn't have trouble sharing. The Apple SuperDrivestandard equipment with every Macintoshreads from and writes to Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/P, and Apple II floppy disks, which means you can share information with someone who uses a different type of computer.See the Macintosh Classic for yourself. Itll change your mind about cheap roommates.
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636-

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, November 8
Rear Window
Films dont get much better than when Alfred 
Hitchcock is at his best, which he certainly is in Rear 
Window. In this suspenseful thriller, Jimmy Stewart 
stars as a professional photographer who has in
jured both of his legs and must spend six weeks 
virtually immobile. To pass the time he watches his 
neighbors from his apartment window. The apart
ment complex is filled with urban atmosphere, the 
usual daily grind  but there is something highly 
unusual about the couple living across the courtyard. 
Stewart quickly turns amateur detective and his 
obsession rubs off on his companion, Grace Kelly.
So, keep your eyes open for the director himself, 
and dont miss a second of this superbly crafted film.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, November 9
Die Hard II
Terrorists have shut down the control tower of 
Dulles Airport; half a dozen planes are circling, 
waiting to drop out of the sky when their fuel runs 
out. Who can save the day? Coincidentally, super 
cop John McClane (Bruce Willis) happens to be at 
the airport to pick up his wife when the terrorists 
hit, so it naturally falls on him to rescue the innocent. 
While not as good as the original, Die Hard II packs 
a lot of action between the opening and closing 
credits. The only problem is that Willis is no longer 
the common man trapped in an uncommon situa
tion, but rather some sort of psychic cop who un
derstands exactly whats going on but has to work 
around the incompetents aroundhim. Bonnie Bedeha 
and William Atherton return as McClanes wife and 
sleaze reporter Dick Thornburgh, respectively; the 
two are accidentally flying on the same endangered 
plane. Check it out  if not for the action, then for 
the special effects.
At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, November 10
Bird on a Wire
Hollywood yet again delivers a standard plot to 
the movie-going audience  someones trying to kill 
this guy, he bumps into his ex-wife who thought that 
hes was dead for the last few years or so, but now the 
bad guys are trying to kill both of them, so now they 
must both escape death while at the same time 
having the biggest adventure of their lives. Some 
Hollywood executives put two really big stars, Goldie 
Hawn and Mel Gibson, in Bird on a Wire, crossed their 
fingers, and hoped that it would work  and sur
prisingly enough it did.
Even though the critics panned this movie for 
being another generic action adventure, Hawn and 
Gibson really do add a lot to this film, and some of the 
adventure scenes are pretty amazing. If you like 
Hawn or Gibson, then go see this film. If you just like 
adventure, but not Hawn or Gibson, then you might 
want to miss it.
At 6, 8,10,12
Sunday, November 11
Blazing Saddles
While Blazing Saddles will hardly be mentioned 
hi the same breath with historys greatest movies, 
this Mel Brooks comedy is a film everyone should 
see. At the same time Brooks reverently recreates 
the look of Hollywood westerns, he rips them apart 
with one-liners and physical humor. Attorney gen
eral Hedley Lamar wants to drive the citizens out of 
Rock Ridge so he can cheaply buy the land before the 
railroad is built through the town. He hires Cleavon 
Little to be the sheriff of Rock Ridge, hoping that the 
townspeople will be so offended by a black sheriff 
that theyll leave. However, Little, with the help of 
the Waco Kid, a washed-up gunfighter played by
ene Wilder, wins over the town and drives the bad 
SHys away. Although the humor is on the level of the 
average fourth-grader, Blazing Saddles is worth a look.
At6, 8,10,12
By STEPHEN GLICKER, TERRI KASCH & 
JASON McDONALD
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  5 November 1990UL7
TV BREAK
A summary of upcoming epi
sodes of Carnegie Mellon's favor
ite TV shows.
Regular Network Programs
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Cheers toasts, 
it 200th episode in this hour long 
retrospective covering the past 
eight seasons. Some highlights 
include barroom brawls, saloon 
songfests and memorable mo
ments.
DOCTOR, DOCTOR. Thurs
day at 9:30 pm, channel 2 (CBS). 
After Leona appears to have 
alienated everyone else, she and 
Mike are left alone in his cozy 
apartment, where things get a 
little bit spacey.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). A fashion model undergo
ing tests at the hospital shares 
something with Doogie: both are 
being judged on physical appear
ance.
THE FLASH. Thursday at 8:30 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). An escaped 
bank robber Barrys father put 
away is back in Central City for a 
payback to the ex-cop and a pay
day with the unrecovered money.
FRESH PRINCE OF BELAIR. Monday at 8 pm, channel 11 
(NBC). The family schemes to 
show Geoffrey a grand time on his 
birthday by serving him tea in 
bed and matching him up with a 
lonely British nanny.
LA. LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). The judicial 
systems treatment of blacks is 
challenged in the courtroom as 
Holloway takes the stand; a savvy 
lawyer gets wise to the firms 
strategy in a lawsuit involving a 
mini-mall builder; and appearing
on a hit TV home-video show is no 
laughing matter for a college 
professor who claims he was 
publicly humiliated.
MURPHY BROWN. Monday 
at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). 
Murphys mom drops a bomb: 
shes moving in with Murphy. 
Then comes the explosion: shes 
fixed them up on a double date.
QUANTUM LEAP. Friday at 
8 pm, channel 11 (NBC). Theres 
black; theres white; and in be
tween theres a gray area where 
Sam lands as a black medical 
student with a white fiance in 
racially tense Watts in 1965.
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 
8 pm, channel 53 (Fox). Homers 
success as the mascot of 
Springfields minor-league ball 
club earns him something that 
lesser men can only dream of: a 
shot at the majors.
STAR TREK: THE NEXT 
GENERATION. Sunday at 6 pm, 
channel 22 (WPTT). KMpec, the 
dying Klingonleader, asks Picard 
to find out which of the two rivals 
for his position has been poison
ing him; and Worf has a reunion 
with his former mate.
THIRTYSOMETHING. Tues
day at 10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
Not being shown this week due to 
election coverage.
TWIN PEAKS. Saturday at 10 
pm, channel 4 (ABC). This is it! 
After months and months of 
searching, Cooper and Truman 
finally learn the identity of Laura 
Palmers killer.
THE WONDER YEARS. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Kevin achieves teenhearthrob status with his most 
ardent fan  Pauls little sister 
Debbie.
Special Programs 
ACTION JACKSON. Tuesday 
at 8 pm, channel 53 (WPGH). A 
Detroit cop takes on a unionbusting auto exec whose tactics 
include murder. Starring Carl 
Weathers, Craig T. Nelson, Van
ity, and Sharon Stone.
LA. LAW. W ednesday at 4 pm, 
Lifetime. A woman wanting an 
amicable divorce is baited with 
shocking pictures of her husband 
in the pilot episode.
OVERBOARD. Monday at 8 
pm, channel 53 (WPGH). An 
amnesiac heiress is conned by a 
carpenter into thinking shes the 
mother of his four bratty kids. 
Starring Goldie Hawn and Kurt 
Russell.
TOP SECRET. Friday at 8 pm, 
channel 22 (WPTT). Another 
parody from the creator of Air
plane! This time the producers 
spoof World War II spy flicks and 
1950s rock-and-roll romps. Star
ring Val Kimer, Omar Sharif, and 
Lucy Gutteridge.
Cable Programs 
THE BEAR. Monday at 10:30 
am and 8 pm, and Wednesday at 
4:30 pm, Cinemax. An awardwinning account of an orphaned 
grizzlys friendship with a 
wounded Kodiak bear in 1885 
Canada. Starring Jack Wallace 
and Tcheky Karyo.
BLACK WIDOW. Thursday at 
10 am and 11 pm, The Movie 
Channel. A complex series of se
ductions and murders puts a 
Justice Department investigator 
on the trial of a mysterious 
woman. Starring Debra Winger, 
Theresa Russell, and Dennis 
Hopper.
CADDYSHACK. Thursday at
9 pm, USA Network. The 
groundskeeper of a swank coun
try club wages war against i go
phers while an obnoxious new
comer clashes with the old guard. 
Starring Chevy Chase, Bill 
Murray, and Rodney Dangerfiejd.
CLUE. Wednesday at 12:30 a,m, 
HBO. Silly comic whodunit based 
on the popular board game of-tjie 
same name with all the familial' 
characters gathered for a mur
derous night in a Victorian man
sion. Starring Jonathan Lytm, 
Eileen Brennan, Tim Curry, 
Madeline Kahn, Christopher 
Lloyd, Michael McKean, ajid 
Martin Mull.
CYBORG. Monday at 10 pm, 
Showtime. A nomadic adventurer 
attempts to escort a robot through 
the rubble of the post-apocalyptic 
future. Starring Jean-Claude Van 
Damme and Deborah Richter
EIGHT MEN OUT. Friday.at 
2 pm, Showtime. Eight ballplayers 
from the seemingly unbeatable 
Chicago White Sox are accuse,d of 
throwing the 1919 World Series. 
Starring John Cusack and Charlie 
Sheen.
F/X. Tuesday at midnight, 
Cinemax. A special effects expert 
becomes the fall guy for govern
ment agents who want him to 
arrange a mobsters fake assas
sination. Starring Bryan Brown 
and Brian Dennehy.
A FISH CALLED WANDA. 
Thursday at 4:55 am, HBO.'A 
London lawyer gets mixed up with 
jewel thieves in search of their 
hidden loot. Starring John Cleese, 
Jamie Lee Curtis, Kevin Kline, 
and Michael Palin.
Compiled by 
STEPHEN GLICKER
\ou said you wanted 
to turn in papers that turn heads.
See how we listened.
Look what you can do on the IBM Personal System/2.*
And with the easy-to-use preloaded software, including 
Microsoft Windows 3.0, writing papers is only the begin
ning. Just point and click the mouse to move text. Create 
graphics, charts, even spreadsheets, or do other projects 
like resumes and flyers.
Plus, the PS/2s4 and select printers are available 
at special student prices* Print impressive output with 
the IBM Proprinter, IBM LaserPrinter E or the
Hewlett-Packard PaintJet^color graphics printer.
And if you buy before December 31,1990, youll receive 
a TWA1 Certificate entitling you to a round-trip ticket for 
$149**/$249.** Plus a free TWA Getaway' Student Diseount Card application. Youll also get a 
great low price on the PRODIGY" service.
If you want to start turning heads with 
your work, theres really only one place to 
turn...the IBM PS/2.
For more information, contact your IBM Collegiate Representatives:
HYUN SHIN BRIAN BUZZELLI MIKE TUCKER
237-4048 237-4719 237-4754
To place an order, contact The CMU Computer Store S
268-2636 JL-53 =~E
This oiler is available only lo qualified students, faculty, stall and institutions that purchase IBM Selected Academic Solutions through participating campus locations. Orders are subject to availability. Prices are subject to change and IBM may withdraw the oiler at any time without written nolice. "Valid tor any TWA destination in the continental U.S. or Puerto Rico tor travel September 16.1990, through December 19.1991, at the following round trip lares: S149.00 round-trip for travel from September 16.1990. through June 14.1991. and September 16.1991 through December 19,1991. S249.00 round-trip for travel June 15.1991. through September 15.1991. Seals are limited. Fare is non-refundabie 14 day advance purchase, blackout dates and certain other restrictions apply. Complete details will be shown on certificate. Applicants for TWA's Getaway Student Discount Card must be full time students between the ages of 16-26 -IBM. Personal System/2 and PS/2 are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. Microsoft is a registered trademark ol Microsolt Corporation. PaintJet is a registered trademark of Hewlett-Packard Company. TWA is a registered service mark of Trans World Aulnes. Inc. TWA Getaway is a registered trademark of Trans World Airlines, Inc. PRODIGY is a registered service ma/k and trademark of Prodigy Services Company, a partnership of IBM and Sears "IBM Propnnter is a trademark of Internalional Business Machines Corporation. Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.IBM Corporation 1990

---------------------------------------------------

ifbfafcL
b/lL/iiil
V ERS
Culture
The Soui> & Substance Series presents 
Did Defoe Do It? today at 12:30 in the 
Wherrett Room. Joe Rudman of the English 
Department will demonstrate how the com
puter is used in authorship attribution stud
ies, focusing on the works attributed to Daniel 
JD.efoe, an 18th century spy and novelist. 
Sponsored by Student Affairs.
Architectural Brochures: History, Hype, 
and Graphic Design, an exhibit of archi
tectural promotional materials from the 
'Pittsburgh region taken from the archives of 
'CMUs Architecture Department, will be dis
played until November 30. This display, dat
ing from the 1890s to the present, will be on 
the fourth floor of the Hunt Library.
Keeping the Wolves at Bay, a poetry 
reading, will be held Wednesday at 7 pm in 
^Scotland Yard. Open to the public. Call Lisa 
Yalen or Mark Donnelly at x4965 for more 
information.
This week at The Forbes Gallery: The
works of Dan Antoninson, Mike Rogers, Anna 
Loney, and Ed Bucholtz will be exhibited 
starting tomorrow and lasting until Sunday. 
Receptions are held every Friday evening 
from 7 to 9. Call x2081 for more information.
Western Pennsylvania Herb Society 
Fair, at Winchester-Thurston on Morewood 
Avenue, will be held Wednesday.
Rossini, Paganini, and Schumann Friday at 
8:30 pm in Heinz Hall. Call the Symphony 
Box Office at 392-4891 for ticket information.
The Affordable Floors will perform Satur
day night at Graffiti on Baum Blvd. in Oak
land. Call 682-4210 for more information.
A.T.S. will perform at The Artery in Shadyside 
Saturday at 10 pm.
Fleetwood Mac. Monday, November 19, at 
7:30 pm inthe Civic Arena. Tickets are $18.75. 
Call 333-SEAT to charge by phone.
Bruce Hornsby & the Range. Wednesday, 
November 21, at 7:30 pm in the Syria Mosque. 
Call 682-2200 to charge by phone.
Billy Joel: The Storm Front Tour.
Wednesday, December 12, at the Civic Arena. 
Tickets go on sale today and are available at 
NRM, Kaufmans, and the Civic Arena box 
office, or call 333-SEAT to charge by phone.
AC/DC with Love Hate. Wednesday at 7:30 
pm in the Civic Arena. Tickets are $19.75. 
Call 333-SEAT to charge by phone.
Chismo Charles and the Blues Burners
1 will be featured Wednesday night at the 
Shadyside Balcony on Walnut Street. Call 
687-0110 for more information.
Alien Sex Fiend will perform tomorrow at 
Metropol. All ages welcome. Call 261-4512 
for more information.
The Pittsburgh Blues Society performs 
every Tuesday night in The Backroom on 
East Carson Street, South Side. Call 431- 
7484 for more information.
ABs Fun Flicks Videos! Make your own lip 
synch videos free of charge Wednesday from 
12:3,0 to 6:30 pm in the Tartan Lounge.
Turtle Island String Quartet, will per
form Thursday at 7:30 pm in the Skibo 
Ballroom. Tickets are $3 for students, faculty, 
and staff; $7 for all others. Sponsored by AB 
Concerts. Call Justin Pizzella at x2105 for 
more information.
The Pittsburgh Symphony, conducted by 
Jerzy Semkow, will perform The Music of
Tartans Football Team vs. Case Western 
Reserve University. Can the Tartans go 10 
and 0? Playoff hopes are on the line as CMU 
goes for a perfect record in Cleveland against 
Case Western Saturday at 1:30 pm. This 
game will be carried live on WRCT, 88.3 FM.
The CMU Ski Club will hold its first meet
ing of the year tomorrow at 7 pm in the 
Doherty Apartments D-Tower Lounge. The 
meeting features a discussion of upcoming 
ski club events. Call Adam Nemitoff at x4243 
for more information.
NHL action with the Pittsburgh Pen
guins. The Pens play the Calgary Red Wings 
tomorrow and the St. Louis Blues Thursday, 
both at 7:35 pm in the Civic Arena. Tickets 
range from $16 to $26.
The U.S. Hot Rod Camel Mud and Mon
ster Truck Racing Championships will be 
held Friday and Saturday at8 pm in the Civic 
Arena. Tickets range from $12 to $15. Call 
333-SEAT for ticket information.
Merlin and Arthur, a medieval fantasy, is 
being performed by the Playhouse Junior 
Childrens Theatre until November 18 at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center. Call 
621-4445 for more information.
Otello, an opera by Giuseppe Verdi in Italian 
with English translations projected above 
the stage, will be performed Wednesday at 8 
pm in the Benedum Center. Featuring Rus
sian tenor Vladimir Atlantov for the first 
time in the US. Tickets range from $17 to $69. 
Call 456-6666 for more information.
La Cage Aux Folles will be performed by 
the Playhouse Theatre Company tomorrow 
through November 18 at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Theatre Center. Look for a review
 in Diversions this week. Call 621-4445 for 
more information.
Antigone, Sophocles classic tale of a politi
cal system challenged by the familial bonds 
of a young woman and her beloved brother, 
will be performed by Carnegie Mellon Drama 
next week, starting Thursday, November 15 
at 8 pm in Kresge Theatre. This Greek trag
edy takes on a heightened significance under 
the directional mastery of Yossi Yzraely. Call 
x2407 for ticket information.
the Pittsburgh Playhouse Thursday at 7:30 
and 9:30 pm.
Die Hard II, starring Bruce Willis as officer 
John McClaine, will play in DH 2210 Friday 
at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Metropolitan, a film about the difficulties of 
New York City debs and preppies, will play at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse Friday through 
Sunday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Admission is $4.
Bird on a Wire, starring Mel Gibson and 
Goldie Hawn, will play in DH 2210 Saturday 
at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Blazing Saddles, the Mel Brooks spoof of 
the American Western, will play in DH 2210 
Sunday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Notices
Eucharist, at 11:15 am Sunday in the 
Lutheran University Center oil Forbes Av
enue. Contact Ruth Degenkolb at 682-6886 
for more information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory celebrates 
Mass on campus every weekend, Saturday 
nights at 7 and Sunday mornings at 10:30 in 
the Graduate School of Industrial Adminis
tration Auditorium. A'solemn Sunday Mass 
is celebrated at noon Sundays in Heinz 
Chapel. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm 
in Carnegie Mellons Chapel (Skibo 39). Call 
681-3181 for more information.
Admission for all Pittsburgh Playhouse mov
ies is $3, except as noted. Admission for DH 
2210 is $1 for students.
Henry V, a passionate version of 
Shakespeares play about the English and 
French at war, will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse tonight at 7:30 and 9:30.
The Handmaids Tale, a grim vision of a 
future America ruled by right-winged bu
reaucrats who reduce women to chattel, will 
play at the Pittsburgh Playhouse tomorrow 
at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
A Streetcar Named Desire, an outstanding 
film version ofTennessee Williams play about 
a Southern belle who is destroyed by her 
brother-in-law, will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Wednesday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
Holy Terror', a documentary examining the 
political activism of the religious far-right, 
focusing on their anti-abortion efforts, will 
play at the David Lawrence Auditorium at 
Pitt Wednesday at 8:30 pm. A $3 donation 
benefits the Duvall Education Fund.
Rear Window, a tightly-plotted mystery 
about a peeping-tom journalist forced to solve 
a brutal murder, will play in DH 2210 Thurs
day at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
Wings of Desire, a film about two angels 
who watch over the city of Berlin, will play at
CMU Ballroom Dance Club meeting will 
be held Wednesday from 6:30 to 9:30 pm at 
Thistle Hall in the gym.
Bus Trip to Washington, D.C. The annual 
one-day bus trip to Washington, D.C., for art 
and design freshmen is scheduled for Thurs
day. All participants will leave from the Skibo 
parking lot at 6 am and return at about 11:30 
pm. The cost of the trip is $20 and payments 
are to be made with Chaz Palmer in the 
Design Department.
Mr. Fraternity Contest will be held Friday 
at 7:30 pm in the Skibo Ballroom. Tickets are 
on sale for $3.50 in front of Doherty Hall and 
inside Morewood Gardens. Tickets will be $4 
at the door. Proceeds go to Central Ohio Lung 
Association in memory of Karin Johnson, a 
Theta sister.
Ringling Bros, and Barnum & Bailey 
Circus, featuring Gunther Gebel Williams 
in his farewell tour, will run from Tuesday, 
November 13, to Sunday, November 18. Call 
333-SEAT for times and ticket information.
Scotch W Soda needs writers and readers 
for its fall series of writer workshops. Next 
meeting in Skibo 60 at 6 pm on Thursday. 
Call x3522 for more information.
Attend the Modern Language Programs 
language tables weekly any time between 
11:30 and 1 pm in the Morewood Dining 
Room. Ranchi O Nihon-Go De on Mondays, 
Russkaya Beseda Tuesdays (at noon), La 
Mesa Espaola Wednesdays, Deutscher 
Stammtisch Thursdays, and La Table 
Franaise Fridays.
Anonymous HIV testing is available by 
appointment in the Student Health Center 
for $20. Flu shots are also being offered. Call 
x2157 for more information.
Help at critical times is available at the 
Counseling and Student Development Cen
ter in Morewood Gardens E-Tower. For indi
vidual psychotherapy, assessment and refer
ral, crisis intervention, academic tutoring, 
and psychoeducational programming, make 
an appointment at x2922. After hours emer
gency service is available.
Walk-in tutoring will be available for stu. 
dents needing help in physics, calcula 
chemistry, academic writing, or introductory 
computing from now until the beginning of 
finals in December. The Counseling and Stu
dent Development Center will also help y0ul 
find tutoring for any of your classes. Call at1 
x2922 for more information.
The Student Advisory Council (SAC) 0f 
the Art Department, the forum for art and! 
design students, meets today and every other! 
Monday at 4:30 pm in the Student Lounge I 
room 404 in CFA.
CMU Womens Center meetings. All of
these events will be held at the Womens 
Center: Women in Sciences weekly meeting; 
today at 4:30 pm. Stop Rape group: today at 
5:30 pm (call ahead to confirm time). Campus 
Reproductive Rights: today at 9 pm. Women 
Center Collective weekly lunch: tomorrow at 
12:3 0 ; bring a bag lunch. Graduate Women in 
Science and Engineering weekly me( 
tomorrow at 3 pm; this weeks topic is si 
harassment. Lesbian/Bisexual weekly dis
cussion group: Wednesday at 9 pm. Womens; 
Center Collective weekly business meeting: 
Thursday at 3 pm.
Lectures
Peter Pran, of Ellerbe Beckett Architects, 
will speak Wednesday at 7 pm in Wean Hall 
7500. Part of the Department ofArchitecture's 
1990 Lecture Series.
Reverend Marvin R. OConnell will speak 
on Free Inquiry and Assent: An Historical 
Perspective Wednesday at 7:30 pm in Heim 
Chapel. Part of the Cardinal John Henry 
Newman Lecture Series.
Reasoning by Rule or Model, a lecture 
by Dr. Philip Johnson-Laird of Princeton 
University, will be given Thursday at noon in 
Baker Hall 336-D. Part of the Department of 
Psychologys Quolloquium Series. Callx2781 
for more information.
Linear Time Separation Algorithms for 
the Three-Dimensional Matching 
Polytope, a lecture by Egon Balas of 
Carnegie Mellon, will be given tomorrow a' 
10:45 am in Doherty Hall 1112.
Women and David Lynch, a lecture by 
Sharon Willis, will be given Friday in I 
355B. Cosponsored by the CMU Womens 
Center and the English Department. 
Stacey Stancill at 687-6295 or x3595 for more 
information.
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions 
to: The Tartan, Attn. Calendar, Box 17, 
Carnegie Mellon U., Pittsburgh, PA 
15213. Or send campus mail to Calendar 
Editor, The Tartan, Skibo Info Desk. You 
can also drop subs via AppleShare in the 
drop folders in the Tartans server, Skibo 
zone. Please limit submissions to fifty 
words or less. Deadline is 5 pm the Thurs
day before the next issue. Space is limited 
and placement is not guaranteed.
R: Is that heavy?
N: Yes."
R: Put it clown.
And on the 8th day God 
created Rinderle. And it was 
bad. Real bad.
ILZ,
You alone, you are the 
everything.
Junior Mech Es,
<Supk it up and stop whining! 
You shame all engineers who 
ihave more work than you. 
/(Excluding roommates of 
Chem Es, of course).
Hey Babe,
With a tool like mine, you 
gotta build a shed over it.
QKP
I Hope 1 don't see any naked 
M.R.s laying around.
Opec
To the hottest guy at 
Schlag,
Babe, if youre so hot, why 
are you trying to pick up f 
girls through the computer?
A girl who received your 
message on Broadcast
E: = me ... I mean E = m3c ... 
'uuh ... yeah ... thats it!
Mike,
If you want to stay the way 
you are, keep our toilets the 1 way they are!!
You know who!
Yd DYL,
That itch is a bitch
Kilometers
 r! i,  . o,B,oy were they UGLY!
Jon,You need a sock on your chin.
Allison
Hey 19!
Assuming you wanted to get in 
my head, heres clues.
1) It feels like youre there
2) Your poems
3) The bodys a good way.
1954
Living Doll (the Voice Major),
I would love 2 meet U again. 
Heres my #NUclear 3-0957. 
Lets talk.
Dress like a baby.
Sleep like a baby.
V1K,  V
Ill give you a nice bone to hold
on to for a while.
Hah
If it looks like a__,
And it walljs like a__,
And it talks like a__,
Then maybe itll @#$% like a
Now, what was your cos- ( 
tume???Blinky
Dan C.,
Hey sweetcheeks! Youre one 
hot tomato, and we thought the 
whole world should know!
Love and kisses, Us
Happy 21st to the cute Aussie 
with the moustache. NOW you 
know!
In response to honesty and 
good hygiene habits,
I got lots of both, so where the 
hell are all the women?
Without queers and junior 
mech Es always bitching, there 
would be nothing to read in this 
paper. Queers ... mech Es ... 
hmm ... naah ... well, maybe.
JaCK
To: The girl with the green 
jacket,I waved to you late one evening, 
several weeks ago, in Donner 
pool room.
Be brave, just say hello. It 
would make my day.
Ask someone out today
Slee,
The venereal disease of 
Architecture
Sorry you lost, Adam. You 
really did deserve to win ...
Thanks to everyone who helped 
make the United Way Drive a 
huge success. Fantastic job 
Heigh, Doug, and Mary! Way 
to go, guys!!!
Luther Campbell: I dont talk 
about brutalizing women in my 
music. We dont do that, man! 
Im tired of you saying that!
ImageMaster
Lutlier Campbell: All you 
leftwingers, rightwingers, b/gots. communists, there is a 
place for you in this world.
ImageMaster
Mr. Sovells,
We havent finished making the 
doughnuts.
Enigma
Chris, you were die UMOC 
before the contest.
' ImageMaster
lover,
i know i confuse the frack out 
of you sometimes 
and we wont always have 
something to laugh about 
but i just wanted you to know 
that behind all the jokes 
i really do care, and ill always 
be here for you.
sultan
Top Ten Reasons Why Housing 
Dislikes the Sixth Floor (the 
complete and uncut version)
10. They all have that same 
damn shirt.
9. Afraid theyll store kegs in 
the bike room.8. Suspicious actions such as 
comparing lounge doorway 
measurements with dimensions 
of lobby room piano and rec 
room TV.
m Si t, (or at least m), 
the next dozen is on you 
if you want what comes with it
you WILL go shopping 
and trust me, 
i waited 18 years ... - 
a few more wont hurt.
ducy
LIMiTED TIME OFFER:
Be my girlfriend and receive 
four coupons, each good for 
two free liters of Coke, with the 
purchase of two liters of Coke. 
Expires Nov. 1, 1990
kitten, ,
i give up,i cant take it anymore 
im going into hibernation 
see you next spring
semour
Wozzle a friend today and ; 
dont forget to turn red. 
Im so sore from this morning.
"Im just kind of tirctl.I just 
want to go home and get a beer. 
That's stupid. That's stu-pid."
Ann Landers replies: Dear Pat 
of Scobell Hall; Do you have 
big balls? Why dont you just 
buy yourself a large screen TV 
so you can enjoy the phallic 
symbols of MTV and remain 
secluded in your own room?
Just a suggestion/hint pat...
Give up the Lestat fantasies, 
you losers, and deal with 
reality.
Kiltie food gives me the shits 
something fierce! 
Chrystal to Globular.
Clink! Slam! Clink!'Gulp! 
-Munch! Headbptt!
The Potato Chip Dudes of 
McGill
Ta, Niffer, lm, Ya, Ra, and any 
others,Just wanted to say Hi
Topher.
M,
You are a hell of a lot more 
important to me than Buggy!!!
Please send donations to the 
Help-Gardinia-Shut-the FuckUp Campaign
Jmagemaster
Hey everyoi^!
E-9, E-9, E-9!!! Lets root for 
him!! After that, MCPO of the 
Navy! Yo-hooooo!
His Son
No questions, only an answer. . 
I love you, too.
Crime Report: 10/26/90, 6:14 
P.M.
A CMU student was emotion
ally battered and morally raped, 
but did receive $30 from the 
assailant.
William,
I had called your name ... but 
you did not heed my words. 
Come back to me. I will meet 
you halfway ... at the Clock!
Cliffe
Living Doll,
1 cant wait 2 C U this Friday. 
XOXOXOX (All the Love), 
The Nightbird.
P.S. U R Soooo Cute in Black!
Invisible Woman of Morewood, 
You are NOT a piece of meat!, 
You are a breathing, real-live 
woman! If I wanted a piece of 
meat, Id go to the Strip 
District.
Blaq Katt
Sophomore Mech Es,
Just think of what we have to 
look forward to.
B: Do the hands things again!
R: No, thats getting old.
B: Please!! Ill sign that picture 
with anything you want.
R: Well, OK. '
(Does the hands thing!)
B: HE HE HE HE HE! That 
was so good!
Passerby in the bathroom: What 
the hell......
Rusty,
Its better when I do :tIT*.
Its AWETHUMM!
Yah, right. Hah, hah, hah!
Life is ... stroodle!
anybody know the shortest 
route to alaska?
You are special to me as well, 
and if you are willing to further 
the secret (which continued 
Friday), than so am I. The here 
and now is all we have, until 
time marches on, so lets make 
it last. The only question ... is 
this message meant for mp ? Let 
me know, face to face,
Love, ?
hawk: why do we put up with 
them?
quicksilver: it cant be the sex ... 
maybe were just sympathetic 
guys
hawk: nah, thats not it... even 
were not THAT nice 
quicksilver: then we must be 
paying penances for earlier lives
hawk,
next time we get girls that are 
normal, and emotionally stable, 
it may not be as interesting, but 
it sure helps to preserve the 
sanity.
God made man, and then 
rested,God made woman, and no 
ones rested since.My angel is a centerfold
;Hey me,If sex is such a big joke, why 
is it the only fucking thing 
you ever talk about?Rusty /
Terri,Joker, JOKER ... Babylonian 
shipbuilding.Steve
Clint,Get that stupid Gameboy out 
of your hands!
K.L.,
Now that its over, won t 
you be mine?
Less filling.
Tastes great.
Who gives a shit?
Where are the rest of the verses to Dingle Smells.''
sultan Come on, guys.
Sue,
I dont wanna do my process 
modeling... wahhh!!!
The Little Shitbird
You think of me like a brother? Thats worse than, 
Lets just be friends.Killer Bunny
