THE TARTAN
Senate runs low on funds
 More politics! More politics! You cant live without politics!
See page 6
 Mens soccer trounces NYU in a shutout.
See page 9
 Hockey wins their first game of the season.
See page 9
 The International Festival  everything you wanted to know but were afraid to ask.
See page LI
 An interview with Rob Liefeld.
See page L9
 Batman. Nuff said.
See page L9
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Editor 
Jennifer Mack, sophomore 
architecture major, and Patrick 
Walsh, freshman Civ E, twirl 
about at the International 
Festival dance workshop 
Saturday.
Inside
JeniifrfMaic
Jk,fsiccccc
ofpMhifkmic
tMnujhMicccd
tkhj,ccccc
PWkhuicccccc
JneMmanhccc
lkCvkWjefc
...11,.L5,.L9..LI......6......9
.LUL14
By STEPH STINE
Tartan Staffwriter
According to estimates made by student government treasurer Jay Laefer, Student Senate may encounter some problems at this falls budget hearings. The estimated remaining $95,000 from this years Activities Fee might not be enough to cover the budgets of student organizations which are recognized and funded by Student Senate.Laefer expects Senate to reTo imply that there should be no 
attempt to restrict the use of the 
Activities Fee implies that... 
there is a bottomless pit from 
which to draw funds. "
 Senator Greg Haverkamp (CIT)
ceive a total of at least (but not. much more than) $517,000 this year from the Activities Fee, a $50 per-semester fee which is paid by each student enrolled at CMU.Over $373,000 of that was allocated to student organizations such as the Activities Board and The Thistle this past spring.
Additionally, Senatehas made special allocations to organizations totalling nearly $50,000 since the spring.The majority of this total was aliocated to AB for a new sound system, and the remaining $15,000 was distributed between the Korean Student Association, the International Festival, and Forbes Gallery.The funds from the Activities Fee which currently remain will be needed for special allocations to student groups as well as the fall budgets of organizations recognized by Senate as funded._________________________________ Lastyears fall budget included expenses of over $130,000. Even though a one-time expense totalling$29,000 is a part of this figure, the balanco without this expense is still more money than remains from the Activities Fee funds. Whats moro, overy year the amount of each organization's budget; request increases.Laefer indicated that Senate needs to be especially aware of this situation; it cannot roly on the appearance of magic money. Senate should realize that any special allocations made this fall will require a cut into the fall budget of one 
Ploaso soo BUDGETS, pago 5
EPw Wfsbi mn,M rkh skrrMMIkjiMThe Tilted Square is ready for businessPMmnuM WhkWkiMi FjaSMu sjui
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Staffwriter
This Tuesday, Senate will continue discussion on a set of proposed bylaws that include a cut in Senate funding of booth and buggy for independent organizations. According to the proposal, booth funding from Senate for independent organizations will be cut from 75 percent to 50 percent, and buggy funding from 67 percent to 50 percent. Buggy maintenance, however, will remain funded by Senate at the present 25 percent subsidy.The proposed cuts in independent organizations booth and buggy funding were first announced by Senates Constitution committee, chaired by Senator Greg Haverkamp (CIT). Haverkamp says, Im not opposed to booth and buggy funding, but I dont think [independent organizations] should be funded to as great an extreme as they were in the past, especially with the money problems were currently having. On the electronic bulletin board assocs.student-senate, Haverkamp also said that, although he doesnt wish to prevent the funding of independent organizations booth and buggy altogether, There is a move to see that booths and buggies are funded in a larger part by the members of organizations who take part in such activities. This would leave the [Student Activities] Fee to pay more for the other activities of the group.This cut in booth and buggy funding, compared to the money Senate allocates on other organizations and events, is completely and totally irrelevant/ according to Peter Dautermann, a senior civil engineering/engineering and public policy double major and booth co-chair of Pioneers. Dautermann says, Its totally irrational to say theyre trying to save money by doing this. Bruce Pollock, a fourth-year architecture major and buggy chair of FRINGE, agrees that there seems to be an attitude in Senate that this cut will save money. Pollock says, [Senates] budget is somewhere between $500,000 and $600,000 a year. The buggy sub
sidy amounts to less than 1 percent of their annual budget. The problem is that the amount of money [Senate] would be saving by making these cuts is not a substantial amount to be affecting the quality of life [on campus], says Senator Moneet Singh (CFA), who opposes the proposed cuts. According to Singh, over the last two years,
(MCS) says that the fraternities have pointed out that since they fund their own booth and buggy, independent organizations can too, but according to Knight, The objection that independents have to this is that [they I have to have colossal fundraisers and colossal dues, although he also says that two years ago, KGB, which funds its own booth, had an award-winTim Foster, assistant to the Dean of Student Affairs, speaks to CFA 
Senator Moneet Singh at the October 13 Senate meeting.
Carnegie Mellon University has seen a lot more organizations emerge and as a result, a lot more activities have been happening, but there hasnt been enough money to support them.As a result, some independent organizations resort to fund-raising as a means of providing more financial resources, butif the proposed bylaws are passed, organizations such as FRINGE will have to put out more of our fundraising money ... toward building our booth as opposed to other activities, says Pollock. However, Senator Shawn Knight
ning booth without charging outrageous membership dues.Meg Veily, a 1992 CMU policy and management graduate, and last years Carnival chair, says that people in organizations are students first, and if they had to do fundraising to a point where it conflicted with their studies, that would be detrimental. She posts, I dont believe it is realistic to expect the majority [of] independent organizations to raise the same kind of money as easily as the fraternities do; the two are structured differently.
Please see BUGGY, page 5
This upset over the name [of the coffeehouse] expresses a lot of concern for the project. He is glad that so many people are now getting involved. Ashcroft has been involved with the coffeehouse since the beginning and wants students to understand that the entire campus community is welcome to use the coffeehouse. The coffeehouse is for everyones benefit, but its driven by graduate students needs, said Ashcroft.GSO receives only 37 percent of graduate students Activities Fees, while the rest goes to Senate. Because The Tilted Square was a large project, and not the only one funded by GSO, it has incurred a sizable debt, one that will not be quickly paid off. It took a significant amount of money ... just to get started, said Ashcroft. He would not comment on the exact amount of the debt, but did indicate that GSO will be chipping away at it for years to come. As the business becomes profitable, the profit will be used to pay off the debt.Rosenstiel and Ashcroft are both pleased at the success the coffeehouse has experienced so far. I think everyones surprised its done so well so quickly, said Rosenstiel. Hopefully, it will be 
self-sustaining, said Ashcroft. TheTilted Square has been able to expand its hours and still break even each week. Soon the hours will be expanded even more, once an assistant manager is hired.Use of the coffeehouse seems to be roughly split between graduates and undergraduates, with more staff and faculty appearing recently, said Ashcroft. Lunch has continued to be the peak sales time, despite fears that people would not be aware that the coffeehouse sells food as well as 
Please see COFFEEHOUSE, page 5
By KEEGAN FOLK
Tartan Staffwriter
! The GSO-sponsored coffeehouse opened on August 25,1992. Finding a name for the establishment has been a problem ever since. So far it has been known by three names: The Ivory Tower, CrSO Coffeehouse, and the Liquid Sky Cafe. AllI' ;three names have proved .to be unsatisfactory to at least some members of GSO. This past Wednesday, a special assembly of GSO was held, at which a;permanent name was chosen. This name, The Tilted Square, calls to mind the official CMU logo.
[ I ; There have been some problems because of the coffeehouses frequent name changes. Suppliers are suspicious of a business that changes its njame, said Denise Rosenstiel, coffeehouse manager. But while some suppliers have expressed Misgivings, none have actually refused to deal with the coffeehouse, according to Rosenstiel. The lack of a permanent name has also made advertising difficult.. Rosenstiel thinks the controversy over the naming of the coffeehouse is unfortunate because it tends to draw attention away from more important issues, like the financial viability of the coffeehouse. Its unfair to the organization [GSO] because its a bad reflection on them, said Kosenstiel. She thinks that, though some members of GSO worked hard over the summer to make the coffeehouse a reality, other members now feel they were left out of many decisions. _The name issue isnt necessarily the issue. They just wanted to be heard, said Rosenstiel.Peter Ashcroft, GSO coffeehouse chair? said,
This young boy swung wildly at a pinata strung up in Grey Matter on Saturday. The pinata-bashing was part of the International 
Festival that ran last Wednesday through Saturday. Junior history major Fernando DeGuia led the event. The pinatas were 
created at a pinata-makmg event that took place Wednesday.
KHaaaaiiieee!
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

2yIM ynhunm . JnhmMSfM TMeekm . DA wsukFMh gOOD
News briefs courtesy Dow Jones, Inc. Layout by Kendrick Kerwin Chua
THIS JUST IN
Professors, Students, CMU Associates.,OVERNIGHT RUSH SERVICE!
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED-IN BY 5:00 P.M. OUT BY 9:00 A.M. NEXT DAY (MOST ORDERS) jWe Accept Carnegie Mellon Purchase Orders
Universal Document Handling...812 x 11 to 11 x 17... 
Computer Forms Feeder... High Speed Copying...
100 Copies per Minute... Automatic Duplexing... Covers... 
Tabs... Inserts... Collating... Stapling...
Reductions to 64% - Enlargements to 155%... Spiral and 
Velo Binding...Large Paper Selection & Much More!
MAGNA GRAPHICS, INC. LLLLLLLLLLLLCLLLConveniently located in Oakland One block from CMU 419 South Craig Street 
Phone: 682-6697 Fax: 682-6950
Hours: 8:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Mon.- Fri. 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Sat.
HIGH QUALITY CANON COLOR LASERCOPIES - GRAPHIC DESIGN  IMAGESETTING - QUALITY OFFSET PRINTING
vkeei iIk1 Jefmukm 
nIMna F3 gO WMhsMmu
 KALAMAZOO, Michigan, October 23 (DJ)  Results of a new nationwide Wall Street Journal/ NBC News poll show Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton riding a wave of support that appears likely to carry him into the Presidency. The survey, conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week, shows the Democratic nominee favored by 47 percent of the 1,008 registered voters surveyed, President Bush by 28 percent, and independent candidate Ross Perot, buoyed by his strong showing in the debates, by 19 percent.' That gap is wider than in most other recent public polls which have generally shown Clintons lead in the low to middle teens. And both campaigns say their latest internal polling suggests the race may be narrowing; the Bush camp claims the gap is in the high single digits, while the Clinton camp and neutral analysts say it hasnt narrowed that much. But even at these levels, Push remains dangerously behind with precious little time left in the campaign. Moreover, in another ominous sign for the President, the Jour- ifai/NBC poll finds that support for Clinton is i)iore solid than it is for the President. Seventy-six percent of the Democrats supporters say there is no chance they will change their minds before Election Day, compared with 65 percent of Bushs backers.! More than one-third of voters say there are no circumstances under which they would vote for (he President, compared with about one voter in five who feel that way about Clinton and Perot. The poll shows that Bill Clinton is ahead by a large margin, and that George Bush is in an awful comer at this stage, say Democrat Peter Hart and Republican Vince Breglio, the pollsters who conducted the survey for the Journal and NBC. etween now and November 3, they say, Bush should by all rights narrow this gap. But right now, he is having major problems even with his base coalition. Clintons plan is favored by 49 percent to 25 percent in The Wall Street Journal/ NBC News poll. The survey shows 52 percent of
EPA finds lead
| WASHINGTON, October 20 (DJ)  Drinking ; water in 130 cities including New York, Wash- ; ington, and San Francisco contains excessive ; levels of lead, the Environmental Protection ; Agency (EPA) said.The EPAs initial sampling of the nations 660 ; largest public water systems found that about ; 32 million Americans drink water from systems ; that flunked the federal test of a maximum 15 ; parts lead per billion. In 10 cities, lead was | above 70 parts per billion, with Charleston, ; S.C., at the worst level of 211 parts per billion. : Lead is a mty'or public health concern, said! EPA Administrator William Reilly. Although ! we believe the majority of American homes have ! safe lead levels in drinking water ... we are ! concerned about the high levels" in some cities.
voters fear Bush will do too little; only 32 percent worry Clinton will do too much." And while 76 percent belie ve Clinton would raise their taxes, 57 percent still believe Bush would do the same. As part of its push to narrow the gap, the Bush camp will adjust its rhetoric to also stress Bushs proposals for a more active federal role in the economy.Both Perot and Clinton are seen by about a third of voters as likely to do best in handling the economy; Bush is favored by only 15 percent. And 55 percent think the economy would improve under Clinton; only 36 percent think so under Bush. Butfinancial markets remain nervous about Clintons budget plans, forcing the campaign to muzzle advisers who favor fiscal stimulus. Another blow to Bush? Economists say next weeks report on third-quarter growth will likely be disappointing. Perots rise positions him to be a potential spoiler in some states. The Texans jump to 19 percent in the Journal!NBC poll is coming more from Bush, say pollsters Hart and Breglio, but what we dont know is where the next points would come from. Perot blitzes of TexaB and Florida could hurt Bush in two states vital to him. But Bush aides think if Perot spreads his message more broadly, he could hurt Clinton in some close states.In the post-debates poll, Perots positive image among voters soars to 47 percent from 24 percent last month; his negatives drop to 25 percent from 43 percent. One Clinton adviser predicts the Texans overall position in the race will peak at 20 percent to 25 percent. Bush yesterday derided some Perot ideas as nutty. Anti-incumbent fever tightens congressional races across the country. Both parties grow more jittery about established incumbents. House Armed Services Chairman Aspin fights a well-financed challenge in Wisconsin from a wealthy Republican.The Gang of Seven young Republicans who attacked House leaders this year have tough fights in such states as Pennsylvania.
fm sfu3 1nuMh
Excessive lead in water, along with exposure from lead-based paint and contaminated soil and dust, can elevate blood levels of the toxic metal. This, in turn, can delay physical and mental development in babies and young children and impair mental abilities in children in general. Drinkingwater contributes 1020 percent ofthe total lead exposure in young children.In adults, lead can raise blood pressure and interfere with hearing. At extremely high levels, it can cause kidney damage and mental retardation. Water systems that flunk the lead test are required to take a variety of steps to limit exposure. To ease the cost burden on communities, the EPA is allowing those steps to be phased in over the next 20 years. The bulk of the reduction in lead levels is to occur by the end of 1997.
PMmnuM fmpMiufSnuMi GIfuM 
-kjiM neeku,Mmui uk Hhn:
WASHINGTON, October 23 (DJ)A Senate panel is investigating whether the Bush administration knuckled under to threats by Saddam Husseins Iraq that it would default on massive debts to the U.S. if the government didnt provide new loans, 
The Wall Street Journal reported.In October 1989, when the administration was split over whether to continue U.S. taxpayer-financed food trade with Iraq, a top Iraqi official summoned U.S. diplomats in Baghdad. He threatened to default on $2.3 billion in debt unless the U.S. extended an additional $1 billion in trade credits.The following month, the White House approved the $1 billion, despite worrisome findings that were beginning to surface from the investigation of the Banca Nazionale del Lavoros (BNL) Atlanta branch  in particular, signs that Iraq was abusing the trade-credit program by demanding kickbacks from U.S. exporters that were later used to buy military technology.The 1989 threat of default is a new twist in the complex saga of the Iraqi loan scandal. Until now, the administration has characterized its lending to Iraq as financially sound. The Senate Agriculture Committee is investigating Iraqs threat to determine how it might have influenced the administrations policy toward the dictatorship. Backing loans
to a debtor who is threatening to default is a violation of the public trust, said Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont), the panels chairman. When I asked the Bush administration to come clean with the American people about the possibility of Iraqi defaults, they did not.Although the administration agreed to extend a further $1 billion, it provided only half that amount. The following year, after Iraqi dictator Hussein threatened Israel and other neighbors, the administration suspended the remainder of the loans.Anewly declassified cable from the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad describes the threatened default. The cable states that Nizar Hamdoon, then an undersecretary of Iraqs Foreign Ministry, summoned the embassys charge 
daffairs, Joseph Wilson, on the evening of October 8, 1989, and told him he had been instructed by the highest authorities in the Iraqi government to give the U. S. a message.With his mailed fist still in his velvet glove, Hamdoon then pointed out that Iraq does have alternative sources of supply, the cable states. Then Hamdoon suggested that unless Baghdad received the full amount it would rethink the priority treatment it had given U.S. creditors. According to the cable, April Glas- pie, then the U.S. ambassador to Baghdad, received a similar message the previous evening.At the time, according to Sen- ate Agriculture Committee investigators, Agriculture Department officials were vacillating between cutting Iraqs annual allotment of $1 billion of loan guarantees down to $400 million or terminating it completely as the result of the scandals being exposed in the BNL probe.After learning that the follow: ing years allotment might be cut or eliminated altogether, Ham- doon delivered the message that if the full $1 billion wasnt extended, earlier debts wouldnt be repaid. Five days after th Hamdoon message, on October 13, notes taken during a meeting between then secretary of state, James Baker, and his staff quote Baker as saying the move to stop further government-backed agriculture trade credits to Iraq was a step in the wrong direction. Get it back onto the table.Later that month, according^ the Senate committees documents, Baker called the then set, retary of agriculture, Clayton K Yeutter, and told him: We want to get this important program back on track quickly. In No; vember, over the objections of the Treasury and the Federal Re; serve, the first half of the next years $1 billion guarantees w.er approved. Neither Baker nor Yeutter could be reached for com? ment.
8jiI na,fmfiuhnufkm IniuMmi 
Mmpfhkm,Mmune eMSfienufkm
WASHINGTON, October 23 (AP)  The White House is trying to unleash six long-delayed clean air regulations before the election in the hope of boosting President Bushs standing as a protector of the environment, government sources said.The regulations are among dozens that were held up by the Bush administration amid squabbling between the Environmental Protection Agency and Vice President Dan Quayles competitiveness council over their impact on business. The White House now wants to push them out, said one official, who declined to be identified by name. This official said former Secretary of State James Baker, now Bushs chief of staff and top strategist of his re-election campaign, orchestrated the move over the objections of Quayles council.Some of the regulations, including one on the
control of acid rain pollutants from electric power plants, were due last May. Others are nearly a year past their deadlines.The Bush administration has been under attack for months for delaying key rules that would imple' ment the 1990 Clean Air Act. Critics have charged that the delays have caused EPA to miss 54 of 89 clean air law deadlines. By issuing a slew of clean; air rules next week, the White House hopes to counter criticism that Bush has weakened the; 1990 law that he often cited as his most significant: environmental accomplishment.

---------------------------------------------------

yIM ynhunm . JnhmMSfM TMeekm . DA wsukFMh gOOD0
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT 
'SENATE
Meeting of 20 October 1992
I Roll was taken at 7 pm.I Meeting was called to order at 
7:14 pm.
Senators Present: Albert (CFA), Altmann CSCS), DeRoss (MCS), Engel (CIT), Evans (CIT), Fadl (MCS), Halvaksz (HSS), Haverkamp (CIT), Holzman (CIT), Kline (CIT), Knauer (HSS), Knight (MCS), Loomis (GSIA), McGarvey (IM), Martin (HSS), Morrow (CFA), Potthast (HSS), Hempel (M. at L.), Singh (CFA), Spaulding (CFA), Tomblyn (MCS), Wallhauser (HSS).
Senators Absent: Dean (IM), Robe (GSIA).
Minutes: Accepted by the Chair.
Special Business:1. Budget: Forbes Gallery.' Motion to override fiscal policy in order to consider the budget passed 16-3-1.Motion to accept budget passed in the eyes of the Chair.2. Budget: Change in Thistle's Budget LineIncrease code 8221 (Printing and Advertising) from $35,000 to $47,000."'Increase code 7791 (Advertis- )H)j Income) from $4,800 to 1'6,000.Motion to change budget lines as stated above passed 1721.3. Special Allocation: Thistle, $4,800.Allocation of $4,800 for 1991 and 1992 supplements.Motion to amend allocation to
$1600 passed 13-4-2.Motion to allocate $1600 failed 4-14-2 in a roll call vote.Results of the roll call vote are as follows:
Albert (yes), Altmann (no), DeRoss (no), Engel (no), Evans (no), Fadl (yes), Halvaksz (no), Haverkamp (no), Holzman (yes), Kline (no), Rnauer (no), Knight (no), Loomis (abstain), Martin (no), Morrow (no), Potthast (no), Singh (abstain), Spaulding (yes), Tomblyn (no), Wallhauser (no).
Audience Participation:Associate Provost for Academic Projects Barbara Lazarus spoke about gender neutrality and the language of the bylaws. Professor Christine Neuwirth spoke about sexist implications of using gender specific language in the bylaws and recommended appropriate gender neutral language guidelines.
Ex-Officios Reports:
Activities Board (Brian 
Papa): Dr. Kwazi and the Islanders play Friday, October 23 at 7 pm; free. Stan Cloud, the Washington Bureau Chief of 
Time will speak on Politics, the Media and the Presidency," Wednesday, October 28 at 7:30 pm in the Ballroom; free. Virtual Reality Thursday, November 12 from 11 am11 pm; $2 with ID. Films this week: Virdiana Thursday 6, 8,10 pm; High Heels Friday 6,8,10 pm,12 am Five Deadly 
Venoms Sunday 6, 8,10, and 12.
GSO (Lara Wolfson): GSOHalloween Party Thursday, October 29 in Liquid Sky from 8-1 am. Free to grad students, $4 otherwise. Entertainment by
Rasta Rafika and Ploughmans Lunch. Costume contest with prizes at 10 pm. Next GSO meet- ingis Wednesday, November 4 at 5:30 pm in the Liquid Sky. Agenda items should be sent to lara@stat.cmu.edu by October 28.
Greek Council (Christian 
Bareford): An all-Greek Philanthropy pledge program was held October 13; Dave Edmonds of the Central Blood Bank was guest speaker. Over 80 pledges participated. Mr. Fraternity Contest will be held October 29 in the gym at 7:30 pm. Tickets $4 advance, $4.50 atdoor; sponsoredby Kappa Alpha Theta.There will be an all-Greek volleyball tournament on November 14 with the entry fees for each team going to a charity to be decided by participants. As part of the International Festival, houses will compete in the piata competition October 24.IFC would like to object to the morbid fascination that has arisen on campus regarding an incident which occurred October 12. Tasteless statements made in Vox Populi show a lack of concern for those involved and the fraternity system as a whole. IFC will only say that action has been initiated.
Faculty Senate (Dean 
Murphy): USAC agenda submission deadline is October 29. Next meeting will be the first Thursday in November.
Student Affairs (Tim Fos
ter): International Festival starts tomorrow.
SDC (Amy Potthast):
Housesitter playing Saturday at 6, 8,10 pm, 12 am.
President (Natalie Gosmond): No report.
Treasurer (Jay Laofcr): There might bo some money loft over from last years Activities Fees, but this year wo arc very low on cash due to lowered enrollment.
Chair (Matt McGarvey): Noreport.
Old Business:There was a motion to move into committee as a whole with Greg Haverkamp as Chair and Mike Tomblyn as Secretary. Motion accepted by acclamation. Movedinto committee as a whole. Continuation from last weeks presentation and amendment of bylaws. Check the bboard assocs.student-senate for the bylaws and changes made. Presentations will continue next week until final passage of the bylaws. Motion to move out of committee as a whole accepted by acclamation.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Mike 
Tomblyn): No report.
Campus Affairs (Erik Alt
mann): Looking at the problem with the trees hanging over Frew Street. Were trying to deal with the smoke problem in Kiltie, possibly with special vents that pull smoke out of the air.
Funding and Recognition 
(Michael Loomis): Budget hearings will be Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday. We will not investigate any groups any further.
Public Relations/Human
Resources (Shawn Knight):Wero putting together an ad about the upcoming oloctions. Thanks to the committoo for this weoks ad. Singh had a short campaign to make senators laugh.
Rules: (Greg Haverkamp):No report.
Discussion:Bylaws, gender neutrality, poster policy, F&R policy were discussed this week.
Announcements:Saturday night at 8:30 pm in the Morewood Recreation Room, SEAC will be showing Watership 
Down.
Oriontation counselor applications available at tho Skibo info desk or Warner Hall.Tho AEPi Wing-a-Thon will bo held on November 18 in the Ballroom to raise money for tho juvenile diabetes fund. All Greek and non-Greek organizations are invited to participate.There will be an answering machine in the Senate office Thursday.
The meeting adjourned at 11:25 pm.
Submitted by 
NAOMI BERNER 
Edited by 
KENDRICK K. CHUA
Correction...
Last week:
In Student commits suicide, Robert Fishels survivors were listed incorrectly. He is survived by his fianc. We apologize for the error.
In Festivities create, renew CMU memories, Albert C. May was was identified incorrectly; he was the first chair of the Universitys Annual Fund. Also, he was the oldest alumnus to attend Homecoming this year.
Also in Festivities create, renew CMU memories, The Candlelight Dinner on tho Friday night of Homecoming was sponsored by the Student Alumni Rolations Council.
In Alumni in Europe offer advice for students," tho number of alumni was incorrect....300 alumni were contacted,100 responded that they wished to bo interviewed, and 45 were interviewed. Also, Nancy Schrinor-Novick holds an English degree from II&SS.
In Intl Festival offers improved, divorso activity Kelly Walters year was given incorrectly. She is a senior.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of 
such an error, contact Tartan Editor-in-Chicf Heidi Hoover at 
x2111, or write her in can: of The Tartan, Skibo 50.
This is funded by the Student Activities Fee.
YOU AREN'T LISTENING, Dammit
Youre tired of hearing us say the same thing, so pay attention this time!
ELECTIONS 
Student Senate Elections are on Monday, November 9 and Tuesday, November 10. If 
you're interested in running for Student Senate, just pick up a petition at the Skibo 
Information Desk, get 25 or more signatures from your college, and submit the petition at 
the Info Desk by closing time on Monday, October 26. The following seats are up for 
election this November:
3 CFA  5 CIT  3 GSIA  2 Heinz  2 H&SS  1IM  2 MCS  1 Miscellaneous  2 SCS
 1(justkidding).I BYLAW^ * 
Senate is currently considering a new set of proposed bylaws to govern the Student Body 
and Student Government. These affect ALL members of the Student Body. If you're 
interested in observing the process, and perhaps contributing your opinion, please feel free 
to attend this Tuesday's Student Senate meeting at 7 PM in the Skibo Wherrett Room.
JeenifirMraMck,
Student Senate has seats open! Grab a petition, get 25 signatures, and submit it at the 
Skibo info desk.
SEATS AVAILABLE:
1 GSIA  1 SCS  1 Miscellaneous  2 Heinz School  1 CFA  2 CIT

---------------------------------------------------

6yIM ynhunm . JnhmMSfM TMeekm . DA wsukFMh gOOD
Crime and Incident Report
10/13 CRIMINAL AT
TEMPT, 3:07 am. A student locked hi8 bicycle with a U lock to a campus bike rack. When he returned 15 minutes later, there was a small car jack within the U lock where person(s) unknown had tried to force it open. Also left behind was a lug wrench which was used to open the jack. The student did not encounter anyone when he left the building he had previously entered. Two photos were taken of the U lock and jack before they were removed. The jack and wrench were taken to Campus Police as evidence.
10/14 MEDICAL CALL, 6:47 pm. A student called the CMU police requesting a medical transport to a hospital because he was feeling extremely ill due to ingesting seven caffeine tablets over the previous 24 hours. The student said his heart was beating rapidly and he was having trouble breathing. He was immediately taken to Presbyterian University Hospital for treatment.
10/16 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 10:52 pm. Campus Police were dispatched to the front of Skibo to investigate disruption of the Escort van service. Upon arrival, the officer met the Escort driver, who had identified the person in the van as a CMU student. The driver said that the student had used the escort radio in the van twice, saying, There qre people out here waiting. The driver said that the student had done the same last week. The student admitted that he had Used the radio. He was issued a citation for the incident.
10/16 MEDICALCALL ,11:06 pm. A student said that while wrestling, he had been thrown to the floor and sustained i-t one inch cut on his forehead. The student said that he was conscious at all times and the bleeding had stopped by the time the officers arrived. He was transported to Shadyside Hospital.
10/17 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL/ 
DISORDERLY CONDUCT,2:19 am. As two officers were patrolling the fraternities, they observed a female student exiting a fraternity house with an open can of beer. When confronted vyith the open container violation, she handed the boor to one of the officers. When asked if she had a drivers license as proof of age, she said to the officers, Yeah, I have a drivers license. What the fuck is it to you? She was taken into custody and transported to 155 Baker Hall, where she was issued a citation for disorderly conduct.
10/17 PUBLIC INTOXICA
TION, 3:05 am. A campus police officer responded to a call about a highly agitated and intoxicated studentin a dormitory. Upon arrival, the resident assistant was talking to the intoxicated student. The reporting officer advised the student to have no further contact with the RA and to go sleep it off in his room. The student then came back out of the room and engaged in a verbal confrontation with the RA. The student was told to go back to his room, which he did reluctantly. The RA told the officers that the intoxicated student had been in the RAs room earlier with some other people but was escorted from the room for fear of damaging personal property.After this, the student was discovered outside the dormitory yelling and beating on the RAs window. It was then that Campus Police were called. After the student left his room for the sixth time against the request of Campus Police, he was arrested for public drunkenness.
10/17 CRIMINAL MIS
CHIEF, 8:46 pm. A student said that after parking on campus on October 14, she discovered that her left rear tire was flat. The student replaced the flat with a spare and continued home. On October 15, after parking in the same area, she again had a flat left rear tire on the way home. While having the tires checked, a blade of anX-acto knife was found in one tire; the other tire was slashed.
10/17 ASSAULT, 9:38 pm. A student phoned the Campus Police to report that while walking on Morewood Ave., he was assaulted by two men who came up behind him. One man struck the student on the right side of the face. The student ran, yelling for help. The two men then fled on foot, direction unknown. The student also contacted the Pittsburgh Police to file a report.
10/18 TRESPASSING, 2:14 am. Upon responding to the Wean Hall steam tunnel alarm, officers encountered two students as they attempted to exit the Doherty Hall steam tunnel door. The first student to exit said that he was alone. A moment later, the second student attempted to walk out the door. They said that they had gotten into the tunnel by climbing onto a chair and then
climbing over the wall between the steam tunnel and the second basement hallway where the wall is about three feet short of the ceiling.
10/18 HARASSMENT BY 
COMMUNICATION, 4:31 pm. A student said that for approximately three weeks, he and his roommate had been receiving harassing phone calls. He said that the caller sounded like a college age male, and that the calls had a lot of background noise that sounded like many people in the room. The callers words were, Pizza, pizza, pan, pan, or So, what do you want to talk about? The student also said that these calls came at all times of the night. He was advised to record the times and dates of the calls if they continue and to report any more calls to the Campus Police office.
10/18 THEFT, 7:56 pm. A student reported the theft of his backpack containing a calculator. The bag was taken after the student left it laying on the floor beside the condiment table in Morewood Court. After realizing that he had forgotten it, he returned and found it missing. The student did find a gray notebook and a box of disks that belonged to him on a table nearby. Both items had been in the backpack. The calculator is valued at $80 and the backpack at $20.
10/19 TRESPASSING, 2:48 am. An officer discovered a barefoot and unkempt individual coming from the mens room in the basement of CFA. The man said that he was looking for a place to practice his music and that he had worked at CMU approximately 10 years ago, when he had used the CMU facilities as he wished. He was informed that he was not welcome at CMU without official business and if he does return he will be cited for trespassing.
10/20 MONEY SCAM, 8:36 pm. While a pair of students were walking along Fifth Avenue and Ivy Street, they were approached by a man who said that while driving his girlfriend home, his truck had broken down on Baum Boulevard. The man told them that he did not have any money to get the truck fixed and asked if he could borrow some money. After the man said his name was Dave Smith and that he lived in North Versailles, the student gave him 
$25. The man then asked for the two students phone numbers which they gave him. The stu
dents received several calls from the man alternately offering to pay back the money and asking for more money. Pittsburgh police were also notified.
10/22 THEFT, 10:08 am. A student said that on October 21 she had left her backpackunattended for about 20 minutes while copying some papers. She did not discover that her wallet had been stolen until about 10:30 that night when she received a call. The caller said that he had apprehended someone with her wallet and credit cards and that he was with Mellon Bank Security. He said that he would cancel her credit cards for her and turn off her bank card, if she would give him her PIN number, which she did not do. The caller gave a name and a number for the student to call him back within 20 minutes. The student contacted Campus Police who discovered that the phone number was disconnected. The students wallet contained a drivers license, CMU ID, Visa, AT&T card, a bank card, and $29 in cash.
10/22 THEFT, 10:23 am. A student reported that she had left her backpack unattended in the library and when she returned, her wallet was missing. The wallet contained $7, a drivers license, Visa, American Express, student ID, and bank card.
10/22 THEFT, 4:43 pm. A student said that between 8:15 am and 4 pm person(s) unknown had entered his room and removed 30 CDs that were sitting just inside the door. When the student returned to his room at 4 pm and found the CDs missing, he noticed that his door was unlocked. The door had just been painted and was propped open. Nothing else appeared to be missing at the time.
10/22 HARASSMENT BY 
COMMUNICATION, 6:15 pm. A student notified Campus Police that several WRCT personnel had received threatening phone calls. During the 5-6 pm Political Forum hour, four ha
rassing calls had been received by three WRCT personnel. All the calls were made by a male caller.No calls were directed to any one individual, just whoever answered the phone.The threats consisted of the following: Im going to get you, Youre afraid to fuck, Im going to get you, youll end up in 10 different garbage cans, and Im going to get you, look for the guy in the white underwear.The individual answering the call hung up on the caller each time. The last call was received at 5:55 pm, when the show was over. No more calls were received. One of the WRCT personnel said that these type of calls are only received during the Political Forum show.
10/22 MEDICAL CALL, 7:53 pm. Campus Police were notified that two individuals had collided while playing soccer and may need stitches. An officer and two student EMTs responded. The two players were found sitting up on the field, both were bleeding from the forehead.Both individuals were transported to Presbyterian Emergency Room.
10/23 MEDICAL ESCORT,3:17 am. A student was roller blading on Forbes and Morewood Avenues when he hit a rough spot and was thrown to tlje ground, causing injuries to left hip and groin. The student was transported to Presbyterian Hospital.
Compiled by 
KEEGAN FOLK
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report un
der the following guidelines:
 Chief of Campus Police 
James LaPaglia reviews all re
ports prior to release. Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Edi- ; 
tor-in-Chief the News Editor, 
and the staffwriter typing the re
port.
 All personal names of complainants, victims, and suspects,* 
fraternity names, ethriic descriptions, and other personal details ;jc 
are omitted from the printed reprt- j Not every incident that ocv 
curs on campus appears in the , 
report.
"EARN EXTRA INCOME*
Earn $200-$500 weekly 
mailing travel brochures. For 
information send a stamped 
addressed envelope to: 
Travel INC., P.O. Box 2530, 
Miami, FI 33161
Computer Science 
Majors
CREATE YOUR CAREER 
AT THE DEFENSE 
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
On-Campus Interviews Nov. 18
The Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) collects, analyzes, interprets, 
and disseminates foreign military intelligence vital to the formulation and 
execution of national securityipolicyfOIAs mission requires:a unique - 
blend of-individual skills and talents.
Computer professionals play a vital role in any modern intelligence orga
nization. Advanced technology and sophisticated systems allow DIA to 
monitor the changing world situation and respond quickly with decisions 
based on current, accurate data. Our opportunities in programming sys
tems development and computer engineering are unsurpassed.
The diversity of programs and opportunities at DIA will give talented pro 
fessionals the resources to create a rewarding career. We will be inter
viewing on-campus on November 18. Resumes will be collected 
November 6-17. Please see your Career Counseling or Placement 
Officer for more information.
DIA is an equal opportunity employer.
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS-i
\
'VVVWW
& .r
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, THIS GUY 
IS IN CLASS.
2CsfuM,Mmu nma napMmujhM fi uIM skjhiM aMishfWufkmd 
nma ;h,3 (wyJ fi uIM mn,Mc HuNi uIM kmM skeeMSM 
MeMsufpM uInu Fjfeai 3kjh iMefskmrfaMmsMd aMpMekWi 9 
3kjh eMnaMhiIfW WkuMmufne nma IMeWi 3kj unbM km uIM 
sIneeMmSMi ke sk,,nmac
yIMhMBi mk kFefSnufkm jmufe 3kjh )jmfkh 3Mnhd nma uInu 
,Mnmi uIMhMBi mk hMnikm mku uk uh3 fu kju hfSIu mk1c
;(TL (wyJ
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE 
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.
8MpMhe3 Hc 2hu,nmVAJon _ UNITEO STATES ARMY ASSISTANT PIOfESSOn OF MILITARY SCIENCE

---------------------------------------------------

yIM ynhunm . JnhmMSfM TMeekm . DA wsukFMh gOODY
Activities Fee funds running dry
BUDGETS, from page 1
or more student organizations, jie pointed out.CIT Senator Gregory Haver- kamp agreed, saying, To imply that there should be no attempt to restrict the use of the Activities Fee implies that you believe there is a bottomless pit from which to draw funds.This lack of funding will be especially hard on non-funded, recognized organizations which request special funding from Senate.For example, each year the chess club requests fun dingfor its trip to a national tournament. Now this money might not be available for the clubs 
use.Senator Michael Loomis
(GSIA), chair of the. Senate Funding and Recognition comittee, could not be reached for comment.However, the outlook may not be as bleak as it seems. In a typical year, the number of students enrolled during spring semester is less than the number enrolled during fall semester. Thus, less money is collected by the Activities Fee. Laefer considered this when he estimated the total Activities F ee funds available. If more students enroll than Laefer expects, more funds will be available. Also, Activities Fee funds may be left over from last year. Currently, Laefer is attempting to determine the exact amount of this possible surplus.
yfeuMa P:jnhM iMhpMi iujaMmui
COFFEEHOUSE, from pago 1
coffee. While Ashcroft said he is guardedly optimistic about the future of the coffeehouse, Rosenstiel is even more optimistic. What it [the coffeehouse] is now is only a fraction of what it will be, said Rosenstiel. Plans for the coffeehouse include a film series, expanded hours, more lectures, and shows. Live jazz during lunch on Fridays is planned, as is an expanded menu with more vegetarian dishes.The coffeehouse schedule of events is arranged by the vice- president of GSO, Rob Byrne, a PhD student in GSIA, and through Rosenstiel. Anyone wanting to perform in or use the space in some way makes an appointment with Rosenstiel at least 10 days in advance of the event. The Tilted Square can be used free of charge as long as admission is not charged to gradu
ate students. The result of this stipulation is that undergraduates have usually been charged admission, and graduate studonts have not.The coffeehouse was created for graduate students, to bring them together, and I hope that's what it will do," said Rosenstiel. But Ashcroft wants to emphasize that, though The Tilted Square is sponsored by GSO, it is a place for everybody. He hopes it will be a comfortable place for people to meet and hang out.The coffeehouse employs an almost exclusively undergraduate staff who dont seem to be feeling left out. The foods great and I think it has a very different atmosphere than anywhere else on campus, said Brooke Ambler, a junior GCM major.Other students are not as enthusiastic due to GSOs no smoking policy in The Tilted Square.
My coffee and cigarettes go together and since I can't separate one from the other, I usually end up in the Yard, said Tim Conley, a sophomore in drama.Both Rosenstiel and Ashcroft feel that The Tilted Square differs enough from Scotland Yard that there should not be any competition. Rosenstiel said she and Lisa Yalen, Scotland Yards manager, have worked together to make sure there is no overlap in their menus. However, since the two restaurants offer the only non-Dining Service food on campus, comparisons are inevitable. Im not used to it being there. I dont think about it or find it as accessible as the Yard, said Thomas Beaulieu, afreshman drama student, of The Tilted Square.
Insert News 
House Ad...
1 column wide 
X 4 I/" tall
WRITE FER NEW 5... 
CALL 3RENPAN or 
KENDRICK X2111
(call them what?)
Senate plans cuts in buggy, booth budgets
BUGGY, from page 1
Veilysays thatshe understands both sides of the argument, but it seemed like the reaction was, Why should we put so much money toward booth and buggy for these organizations when it oijly benefits the people in the organizations? I think Carnival is'a time that every student par
ticipates in. I enjoyed watching them build, and I enjoyed seeing the talent, the time, and the effort that went into the [Carnival]. She says that cutting funding would cut everybodys enjoyment of Carnival, and Dau- termann agrees. He says, Its really too bad that [Senate] is trying to cut our funding. TheSenate Rules Concerning Booth and Buggy Funding
; (paraphrased from Student 
.Senate Fiscal Policy as of Novem
ber 19,1991, and new proposed 
Student Body Bylaws)
OLD BYLAWS:
 Senate will fund a new buggy 
every three years. The organiza
tion must provide 33 percent of 
the buggys cost from non-subsidy income. A student organization must 
provide 75 percent of Its buggy 
maintenance budget each year.
 Senate will fund 75 percent 
of a booth's cost per year.
NEW BYLAWS:
 Senate will fund a new buggy 
every three years. The organiza
tion must provide 50 percent of 
the buggy's cost from non-sub
sidy income.
 A student organization must 
provide 75 percent of its buggy 
maintenance each year.
 Senate will fund 50 percent 
of a booth's cost per year.
Q&lobe 3nternntiminlTRAVEL AGENCY
3005 Dell Ave., Pitsburgh, PA 15216
wG wG ;fhrnhMi ok,Miufs z HmuMhmnufkmne yhnpMe
Lowest airfares to: Africa, Asia/Pacific, 
Carribean, Europe, Latin & South America, 
Orient, & around the world!
tkh k1Miu ;fhrnhMi Jnee 06gA6A6
ONLY IN NEW YORK
w7L ;y 7L5
PMiifkm H Tn3 D6'je3 D 
PMiifkm HH 'je3 A;jSjiu g0
THIS SUMMER, YOU CAN... Choose from over 1,000 courses. Study with a distinguished fatuity. live In Hew York City for as IHtieas $100 per six-week session.
TnbM uIM asn Pj,,MhPan of your year-r ound plan.Callus today toll free at
1-800-2284NYU, ext 231,or send in the coupon.
| New York University 
j 25 West Fourth Street 
I Room 326 
| New York. N.Y. 10012
i Please send me a FREE 1993 Summer Sessions Bulletin.! My area of interest Is________
j ? Undergraduate ? Graduate
Open HouseJanuary 8,1993 lOajn.Student Center 566 La Guardia Place ^^strabon begins January 8
Student Activities Fee is intended to fund campus events to benefit the whole community, and Spring Carnival does that in a big way. According to Lawrence Toscano, a senior social and decision sciences major and chairman of FRINGE, independent organizations should be covering some of the costs, but [Senate] is cutting ... and I don't think theyre showing any signs of stopping.Singh says that if some Senators agree to cut this money, they should propose concrete ways in which organizations can raise this money. Its easy to cut money and say, Its your problem now.  Dautermann, however, does not approve of how Senate released this issue to the campus community. He says, They did not announce this [issue] to the campus community at all except through their electronic bulletin board. They didnt even have the decency to [send] a letter or e-mail to the independent organizations. Dautermann also says that
Senate attempted to slip the proposal past the student body, and Pollock agrees that Senate is trying to sneak this through on us.Knight, however, says, If a lot of people are really against the new proposal, sending e-mail to your Senators ... is an effective thing. Knight is still accepting votes for or against the new proposal until tonight at midnight.
UnlbedWay
ScholarshipsAvailable
Call
l-tiOO-423-5515
For a recorded message 
giving details
Shumate & Associates
I $3.99 Large
Plain Pizza
I Everyday with coupon i j Pick-up only |
$2.00 off
Any Large 
Gourmet Pizza
Pick-up or Delivery
$1.50 off \
Any Two | 
Whole Hoagies I IDelivery or Pick-up |
$1.50 off
any Large Pizza
Delivery or Pick-up
Large Plain + 
1/2 Italian 
Hoagic 
& 2 Cokes$9.95 plus lux ____Dell very _
2 MedPizzus + 
1 lopping on 
each for $10.50plus tnx Delivery or Pick-up
'I
Buy one Pizza
I get the same size 
Pizza FREE |
Toppings Extra Pick-up only
Sm Wliitc Pizza 
& Tossed Salad
Only $4.99
Delivery or Pick-up
$5.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with coupon Delivery or Pick-up
$5.99 Large
Peppcroni Pizza
Delivery Only
Hawaiian Pizza 
Special
$8.95 plu lux Delivery
Free Topping
on any large pizza 
Delivery or Pick-up
I-'Please mention coupons upon ordering.
Coupons not valid with any other offer. 
Free DeliveryPIZZA OUTLET
687-9555
190 N. Craig St.
I !OOXa*KXTUiTTTtfC iwYirtUerwrcrj.i
a? ???
RUgUufKxd our powerful version of UNIXV is destined to be the multivendor operating system of choice ... it's easy, powerful! Once it's working with the incredibleRISC/MaclnlosH architecture now on the drawing board, it 'II be the answer to everyone's wish list..."
a????

Our whole approach to human interface- object-oriented programming, open systems, internationalization - its bridging the gap between users, computers, the whole ball of wax... "
u????Macintosh was destined to become the desktop multimedia powerhouse. QuickTime seems to have cemented the position set up by our state-of-the-art imaging and knockout graphics... "
a????
This represents incredible opportunity for people with a BS, MS, PhD in Computer 
Science, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering and/or Cognitive Science. 
Attend our on-campus informational presentation"
Thursday 
October 29,1992 
7:00 - 9:00 p.m. 
Faculty Dining Room
Apple Computer has a corporate commitment to the principle of diversity.
In that spirit, we welcome applications from all individuals. Women, minorities, veterans 
and disabled individuals are encouraged to apply.
*
The power to be your best;

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Student Body deserves 
chance for more input
Student Senate is working on a 
document called The Bylaws of 
the Student Body of Carnegie 
Mellon University that will gov
ern alZ the students at CMU. Ev
ery one of us. These new bylaws 
will replace the constitution, fis
cal policy, and bylaws that are 
already in place. At this point, 
there are no checks and balances, 
by the student body or anyone 
else, on what Senate is doing.
Senator Michael Tomblyn 
(MCS) announced in Tuesdays 
meeting that Student Body Presi
dent Natalie Gesmond, who has 
veto power over all legislation 
passed by Student Senate, could 
not veto the bylaws. According to 
Tomblyn, the bylaws are not leg
islation, so Gesmonds veto power 
. doesnt apply to them. Internal 
checks on Senate have repeat
edly proven to be inadequate, so 
this is very disturbing. Right now 
the Presidents veto power is the 
only external check  and it is 
still not enough.
Websters Ninth New Collegiate 
Dictionary defines legislation as 
1: the action of legislating; specif: 
the exercise of power and func
tion of making rules (as laws) 
| that have the force of authority 
by virtue of their promulgation 
by an official organ of a state or 
other organization. 2: the enact' ments of a legislator or a legisla
tive body. 3: a matter of business 
i, for or under consideration by a 
legislative body. As far as we can 
tell, the bylaws certainly fit this 
definition. We wonder if Senate 
would care to share with the Stu
dent Body its definition of legisla
tion, and how the bylaws differ.
There needs to be another ex
ternal check on Senate  one 
that cannot be pronounced use
less whenever Senate is trying to 
get away with something and 
does not want to be told it's wrong. 
The current constitution has a 
provision for students to force a 
referendum by petition. The new 
bylaws contain no such provi
sion. If Senate passes these by
laws, there will be no way for 
students to force a Student Body 
referendum.
Even though students elect rep
resentatives, there are issues 
large enough that the student 
body needs the chance to give 
direct input by voting on them. 
The opportunity to petition is 
necessary for the times when 
Senators dont recognize this 
need, but students do.
There should be a provision not 
only for students to call for a 
referendum, but to call for a bind
ing referendum. The petition 
would force the referendum, and 
a stipulation would exist that if 
at least 15 percent ofthe Student 
Body votes, the referendum 
would be binding. Its not much, 
but its more than there is now 
and much more than there will 
be if Senate gets its way.
If youre as unhappy with the 
way Senate is handling the by
laws as we are, let the Senators 
know. Drop them a note at the 
Information Desk, email them, 
or come to the Senate meeting 
Tuesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett 
Room to express your displea
sure.
Letters to the Editor
SDC part of team that 
resolved truck problem
onEditor:It is the intent of the Environmental Health and Safety L6tt6f tO Department Recy- the Editor chng/Waste Management to prevent the recentHousing waste collection events from happening again.However, I do want to make the point that it was a group effort which resolved
the immediate situation. By the time the actions were taken by Student Dormitory Council (SDC), CMU Waste Management had already been in written and oral communication with Chambers Development, Inc., expressing our dissatisfaction with their service. It took a number of different avenues to get the point across that this is not an issue on which we will compromise. While I thank SDC for their participation, it was the communications through regular channels which got Chambers back on their contractual schedule.
CMU Waste Management will now meet with Chambers management in early August to review the contractual specifications and locations of special service needs. This will be done to reinforce the need to avoid pre-8 am pickups in the dorm area.We are also exploring the legalities of monetary penalties with the contracted waste service if disruptions in the Housing area occurs.
Barbara KvizCMU RecyclingSolid Waste Manager
Everything is not always as it seems
Senate not immune to 
fiscal irresponsibility
Student Senate is having bud
get problems. It only has about 
$95,000 left for the rest of the 
fiscal year. From this money it 
must fund all the fall budgets, 
which normally run about 
$110,000, Spring Carnival, and 
, any special allocations that come 
, up during the school year.
One explanation given by Stu
dent Senate for this lack of funds 
was that enrollment might be 
down. Maybe upperclass enroll ment is down, but this years
  freshman class is one of the larg
est ever with over 1200 students. 
It doesnt take a genius to see 
that low enrollment doesnt ac
count for all the money that Sen
ate needs, but doesnt have.
Student Senate has just not 
, been responsible enough with our 
Activities Fee money. If Senate 
knew enrollment was down, it 
should have realized that there 
would be less money to spend. 
Senate, as a whole, should have 
been made aware of the fact and 
; spent more carefully. If it wasnt 
aware, then the Senators were 
not doing their jobs. While Sen ate did not have the actual numbers until recently, the Senators 
did not need them to realize that 
theyd have less money to spend.
The main problem is that the 
Activities Fee is just not high 
enough to cover all the expendi
tures of Student Senate. Com
pared to similar universities such 
as MIT, CMU has one of the low
est Activities Fees, but one of the 
highest numbers of student or
ganizations. While no one likes 
to pay more, the Activities Fee 
needs to be raised to cover all the 
budgets and special allocations 
of an ever-growing number of 
student organizations.
While Senate has been run
ning out of money, it has been 
penalizing other groups for what 
it deems fiscal irresponsibility. 
One such group is The Thistle. 
The Thistle was denied funding 
to pay for the supplements from 
the 1991 and 1992 books, even 
though it is obligated to publish 
these supplements. The Thistle 
is being punished for financial 
problems that date back a year 
or more. The current Thistle ad
ministration had no part in caus
ing the financial troubles, unlike 
the Student Senators, who have 
made their own financial mess 
with the student bodys Activi
ties Fee.
There is nothing wrong with 
taking a harsh stance with 
groups that are fiscally irrespon
sible, but Senate should look 
carefully at itself before punish
ing other groups.
Maybe Senate should donate 
its budget (approximately 
$14,000) to cover the fall budget 
shortfall it has created. If Stu
dent Senate is going to be hard 
on groups that are fiscally irre
sponsible, it should be equally 
hard on itself.
Jeffrey Jc Basista
T Sometimes its worth considering the circumstances surrounding awards for outstanding performance.If you travel through any of the relatively affluent sections of Pittsburgh for more than a few minutes, youll see real estate signs that give the name of an agent and mention that this agent is in the Million Dollar Club. I assume that this club is for agents who have sold over one million dollars worth of homes.I always wonder if I am supposed to be impressedby these signs. My guess is that in certain sections of Shady side and Squirrel Hill, being part of a million dollar club isnt a big deal. A single home may sell for a million. Is an agent who can sell one or two desirable houses in a posh neighborhood an outstanding agent?The Million Dollar Club signs imply that the agents record is special, but is it really? I wonder how seeing these signs affects real estate agents who arent lucky enough to be showing high- priced homes. An agent who serves a not-so-well-to-do community might provide outstanding service, but the dollar figures that he or she posts will never look impressive compared to agents in rich areas. Is praising Million Dollar Club members an
appropriate way to inspire other agents?I wish that it were possible to give people more recognition for doing the best that they can given their circumstances. Recognition for doing better than someone
extra effort and provide incentive for doing better in school. If you got a Gold Award, you surely must have worked harder than someone who got a Brown Award. Obviously, you deserve more recognition than the Brown
I wish that it were possible to 
give people more recognition for 
doing the best that they can 
given their circumstances.
else, according to some narrow criteria, doesnt always provide the incentive that its meant to.A simple example comes from my days in high school. Each semester, my school distributed awards based on GPA. Those students with averages over 3.5 (I think) received a Gold Award, while those students with averages from 3.0 up to 3.5 received a Brown Award. (The school colors were gold, brown and white  I guess White Awards would have been overkill.)There were those of us with big IQ numbers who got Gold Awards every semester without trying. We could never figure out why the school would give us awards for being intelligent. We didnt work hard to be smart; we were bom that way. The school may as well have given us awards for having a certain hair color.The ostensible purpose of the awards was to recognize
Award students, and they should try to follow your example. Those who dont even get Brown Awards arent trying hard enough.This nonsense has to be hard for the not-so-gifted students to swallow. What incentive do they have to do their best? Getting a 2.5 might be an extraordinary achievement for them, but I dont think school administrators are ready to start giving awards for such performances. Still, these administrators will give awards to the brilliant, unmotivated student who gets all As by just showing up.What this says to the less gifted student is this: to be 
praiseworthy, you have to 
have been born with special 
talents; you have to be more 
like the smart students. If 
you cannot be more like them, 
you are a failure. Of course, the less gifted students cant go back in time, get new genes, and pick up some
brainpower in the process.I think that its hard to figure out ways to inspire people who are less fortunate than we are to do their best unless we admit the special circumstances of our own successes. I like to listen to Ross Perot talk, because he always admits that he is a lucky man, a man who has had some breaks and who h a special in-bom talent for what he does. His rags-to-riches story is inspiring because he knows that luck played.at least some part in his success, even though he is largely a self-made man.Bill Clinton undoubtedly realizes that he is different from most poor-bom Arkansas natives. He knows that not everyone has his penetrating intelligence ; not everyone comes from a loving, supportive family. He knows that he has had some breaks, and he wants to create opportunities for those who have not been as fortunate.George Bush and Dan Quayle, unfortunately, dont seem to realize that they are very unusual people, born into priviledged circumstances. Their successes, as they see it, have come from their own initiative, and nothing else. Strong values and upright character have made them what they are. If you are not as successful as they are, then it is your own fault. Their success is all to their credit. There is nothing wrong with the status quo, because it has worked for them.I dont find Bush and Quayle inspiring at all.
JeffBasista is a graduate stu
dent in English.
Election reduced to damage control
R.D. Quinn
There is only one week left to the presidential campaign and this is my last attempt to show why voting for George Bush is the best choice. This election for president is not about philosophy, ideas, plans, or personal integrity. Instead, it has become a national referendum on our anger, resentment,
and fears. Unfortunately, at least from my perspective, it is unfairly being taken out on President Bush, while Clinton promises away our problems.Bill Clinton and the Democrats say they are talking about issues, but the reality is that America is being conned into a false hope that government can radically turn around the economy. We are expected to believe that Bill Clinton can implement all the programs he has promised and still not raise taxes for most Americans. And if that is not enough, he will cut the deficit in half in four years. I guess he has found the
proverbial money tree.Parts of Clintons plans do have merit, but they are meaningless words if you cannot pay for the programs and even more meaningless ifyou cannot get them passed by Congress. A Democratic Congress does not mean a Democratic President will be able to get all of his proposals passed, especially as they are initially proposed. Clinton is known f! being able to work well with legislator but the expense is a large amount o compromise. This will leave the American people with programs that initial-' 
Please see CANDIDATE, pag8 7

---------------------------------------------------

yIM ynhunm . JnhmMSfM TMeekm . DA wsukFMh gOOD
JkeeMSM (MWjFefsnm skej,m hnfiMi fiijMi
/////Christian M. Restifo
When youre a columnist, there are inherent dangers you must accept. In other words, youre not going to please everybody. You could pick the easy way out and write the lets all get along together and work towards peace and harmony piece, but someone would still think youre a complete moron who has no sense of reality. On the other hand, you could try to elucidate why one such policy or idea is rationally sound, and those who are usually on your side of politics would call you a traitor.When I wrote my column (not article, as its been erroneously referred to) about the Fence and action of some of the College Republicans, I didnt quite get the response I expected people actually thought I supported them. Lets set the record straight; I do not support what was painted on the Fence or posted on the bboards. It was childish, bigoted, intolerant, and moronic.It seems as though a good number of people dont realize what sarcasm is. When I talked to people about my column, the ty pical response was that it should have been more sarcastic. Given the nature of my piece, anything more sarcastic would have approached the bounds of the ridiculous.I cannot be held responsible for those who did not understand it. If one were to read any of my previous columns, he or she would undoubtedly come to the conclusion that the one about the Fence was meant in jest. Of course, for me to expect everyone to read every single one of my columns would be rather elitist, conceited, and foolish. All I can say to this is that some people obviously skipped the day in 10th grade English class when sarcasm and other literary tools were discussed.This train of thought inevitably leads us to Patrick Mooneys letter [Columnist maliciously attacks student group, 10/19]. To be honest, I was half tom between incredible anger and side-bustinglaughter. Borrowing the old cliche, I must confess that I didnt know whether to laugh or cry.Mooney would have you believe that I went to the Fence, talked to Pat Gallagher, David Byler, and Stephen Gordon, and then proceeded back to my room to write my column. I hate to break the truth to Mooney and the others
who agree with him, but all the quotes in my column came from the assocs.collegere-publicans bboard. Yes, I did talk to some of the people at the Fence, Gallagher being one of them.(At this point, I must credit Gallagher for a very engaging conversation. Although we disthings, and that group doos not attempt to officially disongngo itself from the actions of thoso few members, it appears as though implicit approval was granted.Now, never let it be said that I wish to maintain an adversarial relationship with any group on
Lets set the record straight; I do not 
support what was painted on the 
Fence or posted on the bboards. It 
was childish, bigoted, intolerant, and 
moronic.
agreed on many points, not once did he express any ideas similar to what was posted on the bboards.)As for me talking to the leaders of the College Republicans, I saw no need to do so. I wrote my column on Wednesday evening, and I had up until Saturday night to retract it and submit something else to my editor. I saw no one post that what he was doing was his personal opinion, not the opinion of the College Republicans as a group.Granted, I was harsh. However, when I see members of a group on campus post bigoted
campus. Senate received quite a tongue-thrashing from me when it passed its anti-discrimination resolution last year, but I now attend meetings on a regular basis. I have even come to be friends with some of the Senators. With this is mind, let me offer the following deal to the College Republicans.I will publicly apologize to the College Republicans in my column when the following occurs: Byler, Gallagher, and Gordon must each write sincere letters of apology to the gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of this campus, the members of CFA, and
anyone elso who was offended. Copies of theSo letters must bo sont to Student Affairs, Tho Tartan, The Student Union, cmuOUT, and ALLIES. Likewise, tho College Republicans, as a group, must write a letter to tho campus community apologizing for the behavior of some of its members. This letter must also make it very apparent that they were acting of their own free will and that they have been spoken to on how to ensure that what they do as individuals is not perceived as representing the College Republicans. Copies of this letter must also be sent to the organizations listed above, of course.When the above happens, I will profusely apologize in my column. I will post apologies to the bboards, and I will send a copy of the column to the Republican partys national headquarters.It was reported in The Tartans last issue that the people I quoted were already spoken to by the more cool-headed members of the College Republicans. Seeing as youre already halfway there, it will only take the letters for me to apologize.Isn't this a fair enough deal for all parties concerned?
Christian M. Restifb is a senoir 
chemical engineering major.
7k snmafanuM krrMhi ekmSuMh, Mskmk,fs nmi1Mhi
Continued from HIGQUQIALT page 6looked like a Cadillac, but will end up like a Yugo.Even if he cannot deliver on all of his promises, I imagine many people will say that his plans are at least better than the Republicans failed economy. To begin with, the economy is not controlled by the President of the United States, but is, by its very nature, cyclic and part of the larger troubled world economy. The record of the Republicans has been distorted by the Democrats. There is.no doubt we have economic troubles, but the attempts to portray the last 12 years as anything resembling total failure are ridiculous.The Democratic ads running on television state the we currently have the lowest growth in forty years. That is, in fact, true, but a great distortion of the economy under Bush and Reagan. Growth is measured by GNP  looking at those statistics, it is interesting to see when the largest yearly growth took place in the last 40 yearsit was not under Carter. Strangely enough it occurred during the Reagan- Bush years in 1984. The American people thought those years were going fairly well with consumer expectations extremely high, especially compared to the late 70s. Reagan left office with the highest approval rating since World War II. If the Democrats want to make the President and Republican policy responsible for the economy, then the whole picture needs to be examined.The other statistic used against Bush and the Republicans is the decline'of personal income of the middle class and poor. The statistics used to make this point are usually based on data starting in 1977 and so include not just Republican administrations but also Democratic. Certainly if only the Republicans were to blame, those
numbers would start in the 1980s.I could list statistic after statistic that shows both the good and the bad of any period of time. That, however, would be meaningless. Our current economic situation may be partly cyclic, and partly the fault of government policy, but if blame is going to be assessed, shouldnt the blame fall equally on the President and the Democratically controlled Congress? I find it somewhat absurd that people
ate government intervention. It took the Canadians 30 years to develop their system. Maybe Clinton is just optimistic  or maybe he is just plain lying to the American public.If there is any doubt that Clinton is in fact liberal minded, then take a look at his economic philosophy. Several times in his economic plans it is implied that every working-class American is the hardest working individual in the world, while
There is no doubt we have economic troubles, 
but the attempts to portray the last 12 years 
as anything resembling total failure are 
ridiculous.
wish to dismiss an entire branch of government from blame, while making Bush personally responsible for every job lost.Clinton has an easy job this campaign  he just needs to tell the American public what they think they want to hear. Most people are probably not buying the whole song and dance but believe that Clinton is better than Bush. The problem is that the promises will not become reality, and what we will be left with if Clinton is elected is a President whose liberal policies will hurt us all in the long run.A strong economy is not going to be built by promising immediate help for every group in this country. The solutions need to be long term, and Clinton is talking immediate results. Clinton has promised complete health-care coverage for every American in the first year of his Presidency. It would be simply impossible for the entire system to be changed with in a year, so he must mean immedievery wealthy American has cheated or stolen his or her way to the top. He is clearly pandering and is attempting to create division in the country, a tactic often falsely attributed to Republicans.Clinton plans on punishing the wealthy by making them pay their fair share, although I wonder exactly what fair share means. You can only extract so much from less than five percent of the population. Those with the wealth are also responsible for the investment that creates jobs and makes the economy grow. Using that wealth for government programs may have good short-term effects, but at the cost of long-term investment in the economy.The middle class has nothing to worry about, though. Clinton has given his word  no tax increase for the middle class to pay for his proposals, but says if things dont work quite the way he expects, some of his programs might take a little
longer to implement. I see a crack already growing in tho foundation of his would-be Presidency.Clinton does not just give lip service to his attack on wealth in this country but has specific proposals that tear at the very fiber of the free market system. He calls for the elimination of the tax deduction for outrageous corporate CEO pay. CEO pay is a legitimate business cost, but if he is willing to tell companies how they should pay their executives, how willing will he be to regulate the entire pay scale? There are abuses by companies in paying their top executives, but the stockholders and the market will ultimately be the regulator of unreasonable compensation. Telling a company how to invest its money is a very dangerous idea and just one example of the meddling that Clinton perceives as governments role.Voting for Clinton is asking for more Washington screw-ups in the future. A vote for Bush will at least keep aggressive government interference down. Unfortunately, there is no real choice for improvement, which is basically our own fault. We elect a Congress that is constantly controlled by one party while we elect a President based on how good the economy is doing during that election year. Real change will only take place when elected officials at all levels and in all branches of government respond to long term needs of the country and not the desires of special interests.Neither Clinton, Bush, nor Perots plans will help long-term. We will be forced to tread water no matter who is elected. The question is do we want to be treading water over the shallow end of the pool or the deep end of the pool. I would much rather take my chances with Bush.
R.D. Quinn is a senior civil engineering 
major.
Elections are coming up 
soon, and the campaign is 
faster and more furious than 
ever before. Whether the elec
tion is about issues or char
acter, one question stands 
strong  Who do you sup
port in the presidential 
race, and why?
Pascale Tufau Junior Biology
I dont know yet. I have a lot of catching up to do before November 3 so that I can make a good choice.
Damien Zoubek SophomoreIndustrial Management
Probably Bush and Quayle. I refuse to vote for Clinton because I dont trust him and I dont think he has the experience to deal with foreign affairs.
Jennifer GentryFreshmanArt
I have a lot of things to work out before I can make a choice.
Ruth Rasmussen/Assistant Forum Editor
Yazid Fadl JuniorBiology & Psychology
Perot, becausehes the lesser of two evils. Im fed up with Bush, and I dont trust Clinton.
Carnegie Motion's Studont Newspaper 
Slnco 1906
Editor-in Chiof................Noldl Hoovor
Managing Editor...........M.K. Rodgors
Business Mgr...........Timothy S. Blass
AYL AICAIG
News Editor............Brondan M'Fooly
Forum Editor..................Aaron Jonklns
Sports Editor......................Josh Llndor
Features Editor................Megan Dloti
Diversions Editors ....Barbara Reyes 
Tara M. Seman 
Calendar Editor ...Ellen Hendrickson
Magazine Editors.............Marnl Borek
Daniel Frey 
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed......Glen Hoffman
Art Editor......................Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor................Josh Freeman
Production Mgr..................Tina L Urso
Personnel Mgr........Ignatius Sasmlta
Copy Manager............Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr.................Chad M'Danlel
Asst. Business Mgr.........Derek Fung
Jin Yong
Asst. News Ed. Kendrick Kerwln Chua
Asst. Forum Ed......Ruth Rasmussen
Asst. Sports Ed....Andy Glendlnnlng 
Asst. Features Editors ... Laura McClure 
Laura Palanker
AssL Diversions Ed.........Andy Vaughan
Asst. Art Editor.........Samuel Groenfleld
AssL Production Mgrs......Katie Swango
Derek Wahlta
Darkroom Manager ..Cosar Sanchoz 
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Tad Dockstador, 
Stophon Gllckor, D.A. Henderson, 
Mark Hllllar, Doxtor Kobnyashl, Both 
A. Mosos, Richard Quinn
Sonlor Staff 
Davo Martin, Christian Rostlfo, Mlko 
Shapiro
Staffwrltors 
Nlcolo Allon, Joff Baslsta, Krlston 
Bovorldgo, Trlnotto Chandler, Bob 
Dixon, Bobbl o Dofflomoyor, Koogan 
Folk, Dan Gallaghor, Erin Grunzko, 
Lauron Heinz, David Hunt, Jason Irwin, 
Lubomlr KochanskyJ, Both 
Macdonald, Chris Maplos, Decan 
McCullagh, Corrl Motz, Frank 
Michels, Truptl Patol, Paul Platosh, 
Abby Schiff, Androw Sproulo, Kolly 
Storllng, Stoph Stlno, Jason Togyor, 
Jason Wyso, Lesllo Zubaty 
Art
Joff Dorsoy, Roy Huang
Comics
Mlchaol Board, Christian Borlo, Matt 
Goldberg, Jonlfor Mul, Drew Olbrlch 
Elliott Schiff, Jon Thorson
Design 
Matt Adler
Photo
Debbie Bauer, Kevin Chen, Diane 
Keen, Seth Redmore 
Darkroom 
Mac Mlrchandanl, Jen Urso 
Production 
Kuo Chlang, Tony Sting" doFlglo, 
Shiv Dewan, Becky Elroy, Mlchaol 
Gibson, Otis Greene, Alexandra 
Hector, Brockett Horno, Michael 
Peck, Drew Shefman
Copy
Roshnl Bhakta, MadhavGhanta, Yorln 
Kay, Lenna Kydes, Anne Lopez, 
Catherine Marquis, Ed Slavlshak, Jon 
Stevenson, Patricia Williams 
Business 
Olivia Raharja, Michael Harris 
Junior Staff 
Laura Bentrem, Nathan Dohm, An 
drea Franclonl, Maryboth Griffin, 
Karen Grunborg, Kerry Hagan, Cheryl 
Harris, Rold Hockor, Mlko Hofsass, 
Julian Holllngshcad, Lesley Kay, Mlko 
Keating, Mike Keller, John Kunlchlka, 
Ellon Lalumore, Moron Langsnor, 
Thomas Lee, Sung Loo, Monica Leeko, 
Nina Liang, Jackie Maher, Paolo 
Malabuyo, Tanya Maynlgo, Amy 
McGovern, J. Ralne Pickett, Tonya 
Rado, Melissa Reaves, Syd Rodriguez, 
Bon Sholton, Jon Slonk, Eric Strauss, 
lllrToska, Lisa Vltalbo, Mlko Walkor, 
Gary Wilson
Tho Tartan is tho student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mollon University. It Is a weekly newspaper pul>- 
llshod by studentB during tho foil and spring somo-v 
ters, at no cost to members of tho Unlvorslty' 
community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for tho 
semester or acadomlc year. The editorials appearing ut tho beginning of tho opinion section re tho 
official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial board, Cor 
umnt end political cartoons ere the opinions of 
Individual creators. Tho Tartan rosorvos tho right to 
reject or condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to tho Editor aro opinions of huthors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of tho 
Umvorsity community. A letter Intended for publica
tion must bo signed and Includo tho writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. Tho Tartan requests that 
lottors be no longer than 350 words. Tho Tartan 
rosorvos tho right to condense or reject any letter. 
Copynght to 1992 by The Tartan. Tho Tartan edit 
riol board rosorvos tho right to withhold from publi
cation ony copy It dooms unfit for publication. 
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 2G8-2111 
Mailing oddross: Tho Tortan/Box 17/Camegio 
Mellon Univorsity/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 17 percent funded by your Activities Feo.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN U: 0890-3107.________

---------------------------------------------------

WALL STREET INVESTMENT CHALLENGE
"the better iasre&tment challenge"
Want to manage $1,000,000 in the stock market? A chance to win $25,000 in cash? And attain 
credibility to put on your resume?
Then, enter the WALL STREET INVESTMENT CHALLENGE. For 3 full months (11/1/92 to 
1/31/93)* you can buy, sell or short any listed stocks in a fictional brokerage account. The National 
Champion wins $25,000!
Compared to the AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge, we offer many more cash prizes and 
championship titles!
WALL STREET 
Investment Challenge
AT&T Collegiate 
Investment Challenge
National
Championship
20 cash prices 
($25,000 to $1,000)
10 cash prizes 
($25,000 to $500)
Division 
Champion ship
A $500 Division Championship 
Prize per 100 participants
Not Available
Leagne
Championship
A $100 League Championship 
Prize for group registration 
(min of 10 portfolios)
Not Available
Likelihood 
of winning 
a cash prize 
over $500
better than 1 in 1CK)1 in 1000
for the expected
10,000 participants
Investment
Newsletters
Each participant receives 
12 issues of top-rated 
investment newsletters and 
3 issues of investment 
techniques reviews with a total 
fair market value of over $1501 
A great way to enhance your 
investment savvy,
Not Available
Max Allowable 
Trades
Unlimited.50
Service Honrs24 hours a day, 
7 days a week*
Usual business hours, 
Monday to Friday.
Cost
___________________________
$49.95$49.95
Win An Impressive Title To Put On Your Resume!
We offer more ways for you to win; the National top 20s, the Division Champ, the League Champ,
the State Champ and the School Champ.
Dont settle for less, take AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge s money-back offer.
Join the WALL STREET INVESTMENT CHALLENGE
For more info, call (800) 964-6463 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

---------------------------------------------------

Mens soccer fights
PRESS PASS
by Paul Platosh
Elu easy
j So you want to play volleyball, the hairy, fat, self- Iproclaimed king of volleyball said. But, first, youve all got to kiss my butt, he concluded. It was my freshman year of high 'school, and I went to tryout for the volleyball team with my kneepads in my hands and dreams of being the next Karch jKiraly in my head. Never did I consider the possibility of having King Kong as my coach. Sitting on the floor of my high school gym, I listened to the coach, becoming more and more disturbed. What was I getting into? Looking around at the jother knobby kneed freshman that were my competition, I saw the same concern in their eyes. We were certainly in for it. I mean,isnt volleyball that |cute little sport that out-of- shape middle-age men play on weekends after swilling a few beers at the company picnic? I mean, its no more intense than a Sunday croquet game. Right?I Wrong. The first serve came from one of the senior players, and the ball floated benignly like a large marshmallow right i at a skinny kid who was play- ing deep beside me. He pre- jpared to bump the ball, his face a mask of determination. Then every law of physics was broken. The ball took a 45 degree turn and shot a beeline right at the poor kids face. I swear you could hear the slap of leather on skin echo through the gym four or five times, as the rest of us stared slack- [jawed at the growing red welt already plainly visible on his iforehead.j Siddown, the gnarly fat man said, and the skinny kid walked from the court dejectedly. Another freshman took his place, and the tryout continued.; The serves rained down upon us, one after the other, and more people left the court. I began to feel worse. I was shaking all over, m y arms were }sore and red, my knees throbbed from diving, and my fiands felt like two slabs of filet friignon. But I made it through that part of the tryout.; Now it was our turn to demonstrate our serving abilities. I was told to do an {mderhand serve. The ball felt Strange in my hand, slick from the sweat of my palms. I felt its yveight, judged the distance, pretended like I knew what I was doing, and served the ball.| Instantly, I knew I was done for. The ball arced high, so high fhat it struck the rafters at the top of the gym, and caromed off to the right, descending with a crash into the bleachers, scattering the mothers, who nad come to watch the tryouts, ike bowling pins.
! I stood looking dumbly at the oach, watching him tap the Ipost with his pencil, j Stop pickin yer nose, and piddown, he said.
' 1 gathered my kneepads, and py broken dreams of Karch Kiraly and headed home. But friends, theres a moral to this ptory: Go check out the CMU volleyball team. Its actually ^ery good.
OK, so its a simple moral.
| Tartan Staffwriter Paul 
Platosh is a sophomore creative 
Pnd professional writing major.
for first playoff bid
Josh Linder/Tartan Sports Editor 
Senior defender Alan Horn clears the ball as J.R. Yakubisin looks on in 
Saturday's game against New York University.lkeeM3Fnee mMnhi 
Mma kr iMnikm
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Staffwriter
TheTartan Mens Soccer Team improved its record to 11-3-1 last week with a 3-1 victory over New York University, and a 2-0 shutout over Emory University, after a 0-0 draw against Grove City College. The Tartans, who, going into Sundays game with New York University, were unbeaten in their last five games, got shutouts in both games from junior goalie Dave Shapiro, his ninth and tenth of the season.Shapiro was injured, however, against Emory, and was unable to play against New York. When he went for the ball, he was upended by a Emory offensive player, and landed on his tail- bone,injuringhisback. Although it was thought that he injured a nerve, it was not completely clear. Shapiros two shutouts tied the school single-season record, set by Sam Montague in 1984, and increased his career mark to 25, the CMU record.In addition, it was Shapiros 10th shutout of the year, tying Montagues 1984 record. Going into the Emory game, his goals against average was 0.58, just 0.04 off his school mark of 0.54, set last year.Seniors Terence Sibiya and Alan Horn scored to back Shapiro and junior Dan Warren in the win over Emory. Horn com
mented that although Emory was a quick team, they became very frustrated after the first goal, and it affected them in the rest of the game.In the Sunday game against New York University, Warren started in place of the injured Shapiro. Although he had five saves in the game, he allowed one goal in the 3-1 victory. Scoring for the Tartans were Horn (with an assist by Alex Amizquida), Amizquida (assisted by Min Chong), and Mark Lotter (assisted by Pat Lucigiani).Horn felt that the team did not do well in the game, for the team played a great deal better against Emory. He said that although 
NYU is 1-5 in UAA play, the Tartans looked like they were playing against a much better team.The Tartans face a tough task this week. In addition to the 18th nationally-ranked Bethany squad, they face eighth nationally-ranked UAA foe Washington University on Saturday. If Shapiro does not play in the Bethany game on Wednesday, the Tartans will have a tough time competing with their very talented squad.The Tartans are seeking to make the national playoffs for the first time in school history. A pair of wins this week over their nationally ranked foes could make the difference.
By LUBOMIR KOCHANSKY J
Tartan Staffwriter
On October 16 and 17 the Tartans finished third in the Western Maryland College Tournament with a 1-2 record. They defeated Allentown College, but lost to Bridgewater State College and host Western Maryland.The following match on October 20 was  victory over Washington and Jefferson College by a score of 3-1. The team was lead by the hitting of seniors Lisa Leonardo (20 kills) and Elizabeth Rowlands ( 15 kills), the setting of sophomore Molly Brennan (41 assists), and the defense of senior Ann Feng (seven digs).The Tartans finished the week with a 3-1 loss at home to West Virginia Wesleyan. The Bobcats improved their record to 28-4, while the Tartans dropped to 18-14.The opening game was extremely intense, with both teams trading the lead. CMU prevailed with a hard fought 16-14 win.They ran the offense very well today, especially the first game of the match, said assistant coach
David Klimke. It was just a little bit discouraging to see them fall in the second and third games.West Virginia Wesleyan dominated the second and third games 15-5 and 15-7.The final game was also won by the Bobcats 15-6 but not without a strong effort by the Tartans who hustled and fought hard. A number of faulty serves and unforced errors prevented them from getting back into the match.Junior Jennifer New had 13 digs and Feng had nine digs to lead the defense, while senior Heather Thompson recorded seven kills.Brennan turned in a very impressive performance recording 15 assists, seven digs, and five blocks. She did a terrific job all through the match, even in the games we lost. She has a lot of confidence in herself, said Klimke.The Tartans final home game is tomorrow at 6 pm against Chatham College. They finish the. season at the UAA Championships on October 29-31 which will be held at the University of Chicago.
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Editor 
Lisa Leonardo goes for the kill as Molly Brennen and Joanna Downer 
ready themselves for the return in their game against Maryland 
College.
i;-v ;
Guy Paquette/Tartan Photographer 
Defender Anh Nguyen attempts to get the ball away from an Emory 
offensive player on Friday.
By GARY WILSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Our strongest offense was to play strong defense. These were the words of coach Julie Shackford following a 1-0 loss to Emory University Friday night.The Carnegie Mellon womens soccer team fought a well-played game, doing an excellent job of shuttingdown Emorys high-powered offense. One let-up in the first half brought on the only goal of the game. After that, there was a lot of pressure, but not many shots.The second half was especially well played. The Emory offense kept pushing its way in like an ugly lost puppy, only to be booted out again. Says Shackford, We knew they were quick so we wanted to concentrate on strong defense. We still got our chances to attack later.This is not the first time the
Womens soccer fights hard in loss to Emory
womens team has played a strong game but failed to score. When facing Rochester, one of the best teams in the country, the game was relatively close. It felt good to know that we are not that far off, said Shackford.The team spent the first half of the season carrying around only one win. However, since then, the team has chalked up four victories, and is hoping for one or two more.According to Shackford, The last part of our schedule has been a lot easier. Weve been playing a lot better, too.The team will be facing Grove City on Tuesday. This is Grove Citys first season, so the team is hoping to do well against them. The Tartans also are scheduled to play a section game against Washington University on Saturday.The loss to Emory dropped the teams overall record to 5-9-1.
-ksbM3 
1fmi rfhiu 
Sn,M
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Saturday night, the Carnegie Mellon hockey team defended their league championship crown for the first time against league rival Slippery Rock University (SRU) in Meadville. After an exhibition game against Division IL team Duquesne on Friday, CMU hoped for a somewhat better showing against SRU,' usually a tough opponent.The first period proved to be a measuring period for both teams as they fought to a scoreless end. The second period, however, proved that CMU was the better trained and more disciplined team. 
To start the scoring, freshman Roger Maddalena took the pass from graduate student Dave Umland early in the second and shot, it past the SRU goalie from tho loft circle, giving CMU a 1-0 advantage. Less than thirty seconds later, SRU tied up tho gamo. CMU proved that they werent to bo trifled with. On a power play, senior Mike Gallin got tho puck to follow senior Goorgo Muollor, who backhanded it into tho not to regain the load. With 7:31 left in tho period, graduate student Scott Sarbacker scored his first goal of the game off the pass from freshman Greg Hans. CMU finished the scoring in the second period with another goal from Maddalena, with assists credited to Umland and Sarbacker. CMU took a 4-1 lead into the final period, not expecting an SRU comeback.The third period proved that expectation correct. SRU couldnt bounce back against the CMU defense or graduate studentgoalie Scott Berry. Sarbacker extended the CMU lead to 5-1 with assists from senior Jan-MarcFeatherston and Hans on a CMU 5-3 advantage. Umland scored his third point, but first goal, ten seconds after Sarbackers goal, giving CMU their fourth power play goal of the game and a 6-1 lead. A little over 
midway through the final period, Sarbacker made his second assist and fourth point of the night, with the goal scored by Hans, also his fourth point of the night. SRU held on for the remainder of the game not allowing CMU to build on the 7-1 lead.After the game, Gallin said, It was a good game. The first line is coming together pretty well. Were pulling together on offense and defense. Graduate student Dave Collins said, Slippery Rock spent most of the night in the penalty box, but we came out and played a good game. All three lines played really well. We were strong defensively and Scott [Berry] had a solid night in goal.The CMU hockey team will be playing an exhibition game against the Community College of Allegheny County Saturday at 4 pm at Golden Mile Ice Rinks in Monroeville. Sunday, they will be taking on fierce league rival University of Pittsburgh at the same place at the same time.
In Snorts:
Club rugby posts significant 
win......................................K)
NFL expansion problems hit 
South....................................11

---------------------------------------------------

.10yIM ynhunm . JnhmMSfM TMeekm . DA wsukFMh gOOD
IM NewsClub rugby team dominates 
match against Fairmount State
Team raises its record to 2-3 with significant 20-10 win
By MIKE KELLER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
On Saturday, Carnegie Mellons rugby team improved , their record to 2-3. On an uncharacteristically warm fall afternoon, CMU met Fairmont State University in Fairmont, WV, for a rugby match of unparalleled significance thus far in ; CMUs season. The CMU squad entered the match with a heavy burden on their brawny shoulders; for they all realized that if tjhey should lose, their shot at a winning season would cease to exist.Although play was scrappy on both sides, CMU was clearly the dominating team throughout most of the match. The CMU scrum won twice as many hooks : as Fairmonts scrum in spite of FSUs evident advantage in size. In the line-outs, CMU and , Fairmont seemed equally matched, although FSU was awarded many more puts. The transition from scrum to backs , proved to be surprisingly smooth as the scrum-half, sophomore Billy Adelman, got ball after ball ! out to CMUs fly-half, junior Wild Bill Lucier. This was one , ofFairmonts biggest weaknesses,, as the ball rarely made it from their scrum-half to their fly-half ! without something going wrong.Backs on both sides had many misdirected passes and dropped ' balls. However, CMUs backs were most impressive on defense, constantly putting pressure on Fairmont. CMUs backs were relentless in their pursuit of the ball and clearly outplayed Fairmont. The standout of CMUs arsenal of talented backs was fullback, graduate student Kevin Lucas, who used his fancy footwork in several key plays to advance the ball far into Fairmont
territory.The first half began with CMU kicking to Fairmont. CMU came out ready to kill and for the first10 minutes of the game, CMU kepttheball on Fairmonts end of thefield. On apenalty kick, Lucas scored three points by splitting the uprights. Fairmont then picked up the pace and capitalized on a mishandled ball by CMU. Fairmonts Tim Yurkie- wicz scooped up the ball and went nearly half the distance of the field to score a try. The kick after was wide, leaving the score at 5-2. Much of the play following Fairmonts try entailed defensive kicking by both squads. Lucas, quite often the recipient of these kicks, seemed at times to separate into a lower half and an upper half as he weaved his way through Fairmont defenders.Well into the second half, junior Bob Kay, captain of the scrum, scored on a short run through Fairmonts hapless ruggers. Lucass kick after was good, putting CMU ahead 10-5. The remainder of the first half was soundly controlled by CMU, with both the scrum and the backs continuing to exhibit their superior tackling skills.Fairmont entered the second half after losing one of their scrummers to injry (shattered metacarpal). CMU received the kick from Fairmont to get the second half underway. After going back and forth for the first 10 minutes, the CMU scrum fought their way toward the Fairmont tryline. CMU scrummers relentlessly pushed the ball deep into Fairmont territory. The barrage ended with sophomore Ian Gardner running the ball over their tryline and then dumping it to sophomore Chris Demlein, who touched it down for a try. Lucass kick after was wide, leaving the
score at 15-5.Fairmont came back with a vengeance and within minutes threatened to score. CMU was pressed back deep into their own territory when Fairmont suffered a second injury to their fullback (twisted knee). Soon after, due to poor communication, Fairmont capitalized on a loose ball following a CMU line-out and scored a try. Although the kick after was wide, the score was 15-10, and CMU suddenly found itself in a tight game.CMU answered the challenge by pushing the ball far into Fairmont territory. After many defensive kicks by Fairmont, Lucas ran the ball within inches of their tryline, but was tackled. However, CMU scrummers were there to support Lucas and after much rucking and mauling, the ball went loose. As a Fairmont back was reaching for the ball, CMUs inside center, Iron Mike Lopacki, grubber kicked the ball through the defenders hands, scooped it up, and ran through a Fairmont defender to score a try. Lucas missed the kick after, but with the score standing at 20-10, CMU had for the most part put the game away.For the remainingfew minutes, CMU successfully defended their lead and, thus, came out of the match victorious, beating Fairmont 20-10.After losing three straight close games, this match could prove to be a pivotal one for CMU rugby. CMU convincingly showed its prowess on the rugby field in spite of a referee who was of questionable competence. They came out and kicked ass, albeit in a gentlemanly fashion. With two games remaining and their record at 2-3, they have a good chance at a winning season. Next week, they face Ambridge University.
SPORTS IN SEASON
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Commissioners:Majors  Buddy Feitt, x5371 Intermediate  Kerry Skolkin Minors  Jim Saxon, x5482 Women Only  Molly McDermott, 682-3529 The play-offs for touch football are now in progress. Please check the IM bulletin board for the playoff schedule.
TENNIS
Commissioner:Jon Ferris, x5502 Please report your scores to the commissioner. The tennis playoffs began on October 18. Please check the IM bulletin board for the play-off schedule.
WATER POLO
Commissioners:Mike Kappus, x5302 Joanne Kievan, x5900 Lifeguard Denise Fenwick, x4046, will be on duty during all scheduled matches. Please play all games as scheduled, and return all equipment to its proper place following the last match of the evening.
CHESS
Commissioner:Buddy Feitt, x5371 The schedules for this season are now out and can be picked up in the IM Office. Please play all matches as scheduled and report your scores to the commissioner.
SOCCER
Commissioners:Majors  Buddy Feitt, x5371 Intermediate  Dave Ekern, x5354Minors  John Stack, 361-0274 Women Only  Molly McDermott, 682-3529 The schedules for this season
are now out and can be picked up in the IM Office. Games began last Monday in the stadium. Standings will be posted on the IM bulletinboard. This year there are a record breaking 68 IM soccer teams.
BOWLING
Commissioner:Buddy Feitt, x5371 Entries were due in on October 8. Matches began on October 24, and are rolled on the Forward Lanes on Forward Avenue in Squirrel Hill, 422-5844. The cost per line is $1.75 plus playoffs, and shoes cost $.50.
VOLLEYBALL
Commissioners:Majors  Buddy Feitt, x5371 Intermediate  Dave Ekern, x5354Minors  John Stack, 361-0274 Women Only  Molly McDermott, 682-3529 The schedules for this season are now out and can be picked up in the IM Office. Matches started on October 13. Standings are posted on the IM bulletin board.
RACQUETBALL
Commissioner:Jim Saxon, x5482 Entries were due on October 8. Play singles only, and report scores to the IM Office. Schedules can be picked up in the IM Office.
CO-REC WATER POLO
Commissioners:Mike Kappus, x5302 Joanne Kievan, x5900 Its still not too late to sign up; entries are due on Thursday.
TEAM TABLE TENNIS
Commissioner:Jon Wei, 688-9504 Matches begin this week.
Schedules can be picked up in the IM Office. Please report scores to the commissioner.
DARTS
Commissioner:Buddy Feitt, x5371 Schedules can be picked up in the IM Office.
FENCING
Commissioner:Randy Bruno, x8672 The foil tournament was held on October 18, the epee tournament was held yesterday, and the sabre tournament will be on November 8. There will be a team, three-weapon tournament held on November 22. Teams must be made up of three fencers.
UPCOMING SPORTS
THREE PERSON VOLLEY- BALL
Commissioner:Jim Saxon, x5482 Entries are due on. October S by 4:30 pm.
BACKGAMMON
Commissioner:Buddy Feitt, x5371 Entries are due on October 29 by 4:30 pm.
BRIDGE
Commissioner:Buddy Feitt, x5371 Entries are due on October 29 by 4:30 pm.
BUSINESS
The next IM Board Meeting will be held on November 5 at 12:30 pm in the IM Office.
Compiled by ANDY GLENDINNING
choi ce,.
 Abortion sorvlces to 17 weeks 
by the rogions most 
oxporioncod providor.
 FREE prognancy tosts.
 Exporioncod gyno caro
 Counsoling
 STD & HPV scrooning
 Conlidontial, Convonior 
Allordablo to all.
Toll free 800-426-4636 107 Glh St., Downtown M-Sal 8-5. Thurs. 12-9pm MC/VISA/ HMO's/BC/BSk
PJ-w;(P-Hv H7tw(T;yHw7 tw( Py5o27yP G-w 722oMONEY FOR COLLEGE
Every student is eligible tor some type of financial aid regardless of grades or parental income.COMPREHENSIVE DATABASE: Our data base ol over 200,000 listings of scholarships and grants represent over $10 billion in private sector financial aid.MANY AWARDS: Scholarships are available to students based on their career plans, family heritage and academic interests. UNIQUE RESEARCH: Our research department has located many scholarships including awards for newspaper carriers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders and non-smokers.RESULTS GUARANTEED.
CALL ANYTIME FOR A FREE BROCHURE(800) 283-8600Ext. 91HTutors Needed
for Walk In Tutoring Program
Students are NEEDED to help with Calculus and Physics 
If you would like to teach entry level Calculus or
Anne R. Witchner, Assistant Dean 
of Student Affairs, or Mrs. Rudman at x8704Mi illiilBI 1mmmmmmmmmzrm1
iiii

---------------------------------------------------

yIM ynhunm . JnhmMSfM TMeekm . DA wsukFMh gOOD11
2CWnmifkm q n :jMiufkm uInu mMMai nmi1MhfmS
NFL FOOTBALL
by Dave Martin
Early in the season I mentioned that parity in the National Football League was a hoax, nothing jnore than a construct that the owners thought they could create .go fans in cities with the teams that arent so great could still 'cheer on those teams, in hopes hat maybe someday they could boast of a Super Bowl champion. Or, in the case of Indianapolis, a team that wasnt in the cellar of the AFC East division. It occurred to me recently that the story of .jjarity has helped to vanquish the hopes of NFL expansion.For some time, even before Pete Rozelle retired as commissioner $fthe NFL, there has been talk of I expansion within the NFL. Cit- j ies like St. Louis, Baltimore, Oakland, Charlotte, and Orlando have been clamoring for NFL teams to root for. As most people .may know, the first three cities on the list had franchises until the 1980s. Lack of support caused the silent departure of the Colts from Baltimore. The same occurred in St. Louis, but the owner of the Cardinals had the decency to make public the move before it happened. A1 Davis, owner of the i Raiders, was lured by a prettier I stadium and a lucrative deal with uthe city of Los Angeles. (I never .liked A1 Davis as an NFL owner before, but when he moved the Raiders I knew that he was a man I could never respect.)With the installation of the new
commissioner, Paul  I love to say his last name  Tagliabue, NFL expansion became a ques- tionabe priority. Tagliabue inherited the great free agency debates. As a lawyer and business leader, though, he was suited for such an ordeal. He has yet to do much on the issue of expansion. The NFL seems to be biding its time in setting up franchises elsewhere in the United States, and Id say with good reason. There is always the talk that the economy cant support new teams. A reasonable excuse, really, but I am forced to wonder about its legitimacy. Charlotte, for example, has been exploding economically for the last five years and is looking only at becoming more prosperous. (I question this a bit  Ive heard rumors of stagnation in Charlotte, but of course, there are rumors of stagnation everywhere.) Raleigh, North Carolina currently supports a team in the World League of American Football. The South, excluding Florida which really doesnt count as South because its inhabited by a bunch of northerners (okay, there are some exceptions)  isnt really represented well enough in the NFL. But, theres little talk of expanding there. (Yes, I think eventually Ill tie in the idea about parity ... give me a minute.)It seems to me that the NFL is run by mostly northerners. There are a few owners that I can think of off the top of my head who dont come from the North, like Art Finks of the New Orleans Saints (probably my favorite owner if for no other reason than the fact he dances on the sidelines from time to time). The point here is, the controllingfactions come from the historically highly industrialized North. These factions pushed hardest for parity in the
NFL. These are not men who consider expansion a great move for the NFL. Sure, the correlation here is nonexistent. But, besides some chance of failure, what really works against expansion? There are people out there who are willing to root for teams from Charlotte, Richmond, and Knoxville, among other cities that are noted for southernness and which are growing in this time of failing economies. (May it be noted that the economies in these places have begun to falter, if for no other reason than for fear that they are doing too well in a time when other places, namely the North, claim to be doing poorly economically.)The point is, current owners and the entire ring of NFL officials dont want expansion because they have worked hard to get the players they wanted. They pushed for parity so that they could have a chance to make money from their current customers. Why should they ask for competition in bargaining for the players they already have trouble keeping? Expansion, put simply, cannot happen. We have parity, or a semblance thereof. So dont expect to see any teams in cities not currently boasting an NFL team anytime soon. (Unless maybe H. Ross Perot would like to sponsor some team in the South.)Enough about things that will never be. The time has come to entertain those things that will be. First off, Buffalo versus New England. The Bills have been stumbling of late. Dont expect miracles, though. Take the Bills. The battle of Ohio. No one really cares who wins this game, even the people of Ohio. Take Cleveland over the whimpering Bengals. Houston takes on Pitts
Ojas rare problem-solving ability earned him 
great admiration when he became a chess 
champion in grade school.
Today, his intelligence, drive and uncom
mon insistence on doing everything well make 
him one of our outstanding Project Managers. 
Employees like Ojas are typical of the univer
sity hires we value at Oracle. We provide an 
outlet for their talents few companies can 
match.
We are the largest supplier of DBMS soft
ware and the third largest software and ser
vices company in the world. We provide total 
systems solutions through database, tools, 
applications and services. Our products run in 
more than 100 computing environments and 
are utilized in 92 countries around the world.
After 15 years, our successful technologi
cal and market leadership is directly attributed 
to the talents and contributions of our people.
ORA(ZLE
Alake your vision tomorrow's technology.'w
At Oracle, youll work with individuals whose 
vision and personal commitment to excellence 
will play a leading role in shaping information 
technology beyond the 90s.
We are interested in individuals with tech
nical degrees for positions in Software Devel
opment, Technical Support, Product Manage
ment and Consulting. Send your resume to 
Larry Lynn, Oracle Corporation, 500 Ora
cle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, 
CA 94065. FAX (415) 506-1073 or 506- 
7732. E-mail address Islynn @ us.oracle, 
com. Or, call Lindsay White Quintero at 
(415) 506-5060. We are an Equal Opportunity 
Employer.
On-campus 
Interviews:
Meet with Oracle Representatives on 
November 11 & 12
Contact your Placement Office for details.
burgh. The Steelers shocked everyone with a victory over the Oilers in the Astrodome at the beginning of the season. No ono will be surprised when Pittsburgh beats the Oilers at Throe Rivers. San Diego will dispose of the Colts. Miami over the Jets. The Dolphins are playing better than any team out there right now. Take the Falcons over the Rams at the new Georgia Dome. Should be a good game.Dallas and Philadelphia are fighting for the top positions in the NFC East. That division race is a tremendous one this year. My bet is that the winner of this game will take the division. So the Cowboys will make the playoffs two years running. Detroit over Green Bay in a who really cares. New Orleans over Tampa Bay. Washington should have no trouble with the Giants at RFK. San Francisco is looking at con- tinuingits domination oftheNFC West and should have no problems with Phoenix.Tonights game pits the Buffalo Bills against the New York Jets, who have been troubled since the start of the season. Thats what happens when a team is stupid enough to win all of their preseason games. The Bills should have a couple problems with beating New York, but only because the Bills have been beating themselves, without trouble. Take the Bills anyway, and take them by a sizable margin.Look for friends in cities who would like to have an NFL franchise. Then check out the economies of the cities. If the citys having serious problems, then maybe theres a valid excuse for not expanding yet. If not, well, all I can say is thank the owners of NFC teams. They have the line on parity.
Jhkii skjmuh3 hnsMi 
uk1nha Mma kr iMnikm
By ANDY GLENDINN1NG
Tartan. Assistant Sports Edi
tor
The Carnegie Mellon mens and women's cross country teams attended the UAA Championships at Case Western Reserve University last Saturday. The womens team finished fifth with 139 points in a field of eight, and the men, with a scoreof 134, placed sixth with out of eight. In the womens division, the University of Chicago came in first with 41 points, while in the mens, the University of Rochester brought in the low score of 20 points.The individual Tartan women finishers in a field of 70 racers were junior Aliza Hildebrand (20th place, 21:02),
junior Cynthia Ivolnnowski (28th, 21:45), senior Wondy Evenns (29th, 21:49), sopho- moro Christa Sober (31st., 21:55), senior Colleen Barkley (39th, 22:49), junior Jodi Piccolo (42nd, 23:10), sophomore Karen Bryla (52nd, 24:33), and freshman Sheila Skaff (58th, 27:15).On the mens side of things CMU finishers out of a field of 70 were junior Jim Langer (sixth place, 27:00), senior Rich Hayes (26th, 27:58), senior Scott Phillips (30th, 28:05), senior Kevin Pogany (40th, 28:41), freshman Matt Beam (45th, 28:59), freshman Mike Rea (48th, 29:18), sophomore Scott Perfater (54th, 29:47),. freshman Omar Sharief (67th',' 32:49), and freshman Cory Weber (69th, 34:06).
seniifrfMa
HIGQUAGL
We can make this difficult time easier 
for you. We are a white, professional 
couple wanting to welcome a baby into 
our own home. We will pay expenses 
legal and medical. Confidential. Please 
call us if you are interested. Brent/ 
Jennifer. Collect. 410-367-8242.
TGYQCUNOR
Beat Gateway 2000!!! 486 SX/25, 4MG 
RAM, 130 MG hard drive, 2 floppies, 
IMB video, 14" 1024x768 SVGA, non
interlaced monitor, DOS, WIN 3.1, 
mouse, software, 2 yr warranty, $1599, 
Leapfrog Computers, Inc 681-6326.
Computers High quality for less! 
We've got custom systems for you! 
Guaranteed to beat Gateway 2000! 
Experts at windows and CAD. Hardware 
upgrades, consulting, software and 
computers. Leapfrog computers, 681- 
6326.
QGO RHSN
Laser1986, great condition, 2-door, air 
conditioning, PS/PB, 5 speed, new 
transmission/clutch, Inspected, rear 
spoiler, low miles, well maintained oil 
changed every 3,000, good tires, P-T-S 
$2,200 obo 234-6285 M-F 7-6.
Macintosh hard drive. 80Mb Quantum 
ProDrive. $250. 391-8471 (9AM3:30PM).
Earn $1,500 weekly mailing our 
circulars!... Begin now!... Free packet! 
SEYS, Dept. 256, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 
38018-4000.
Students or organizations. Promote our 
Florida Spring Break packages. Earn 
money and free trips. Call Campus 
Marketing. 800-423-5264.
Want to travel free, earn cash and 
resume experience? Students and 
organizations call College Tours to join 
our team! We have 25 years experience, 
great prices, hotels and destinations. Call 
1(800)959-4SUN.
Wanted: Travel reps for spring break. 
Established company with many years 
experience. Earn money on spare time 
and free trip to Cancn. Call 1-800- 
3Siesta, ask for Bonnie.
EL THYQCR PG-R
$$$$, Free travel and resume experi
ence!! Individuals and student organiza
tions wanted to promote spring break, 
call the nation's leader. Inter-campus 
programs 1-800-327-6013.
RNODATNR
Greeks & Clubs. Raise a cool $1,000.00 
in just one week! Plus $1000 for the 
member who calls! And a free head
phone radio just for calling 1-800-932- 
0528, ext. 65.
PGCRALMUOHDNS
Furnished private bedroom, share 
kitchen and bath. Atwood Street. 521- 
7213
PG-R
$200-$500 weekly. Assemble products 
at home. Easy! No selling. You're paid 
direct. Fully guaranteed. Free Informa
tion^ Hour Hotline. 801-379-2900. 
Copyright PAH KDH.
Are you model material? Dunna Belajac 
and company Is in search of new faces. If 
you are serious about modeling and 
earning extra money, submit snapshots 
along with your height, weight and 
clothing size (include a self-addressed 
stamped envelope) to: Donna Belajac 
and Company, One Bigelow Square, 
Suite 1924, Pittsburgh, PA 15219. No 
fee involved.
Low student and faculty fares to 
international destinations. Good fares 
within the USA. **AYH & Eurail passes. 
Experienced, friendly service. Hours 9-5 
pm Monday-Friday/10 am-noon 
Saturday. Convenient location: 4608 
Winthrop St. off South Craig St. Call 
Forum Travel 681-4099.
Thanksgiving break! Ride with 
Collegiate Express Connection to 
Harrisburg, King of Prussia, Philadelphia. 
$46-$49. Roundtrip. Movies on board! 
Call 648-5853.
Sendyouradwith 
payment today. 
See your ad in 
print next week!!
Classified Policy^
DeadlineDeadline for submission of classifieds to The Tartan is 3 pm the Thursday before pub* cation.
Rates1-20 words............$5.00 per;week I21-50 words..........18.00 per!week50-100 words......$10.00 perweek
Classifieds must be paid by cash or check before the first scheduled run date.
On-campus departments and organizations may pay by journal transfer with a valid account number.
Classifieds are not subject to discounts applicable to display ads.
Classifieds reach a wide audience.
Let the Classifieds work for youl 
Send your classified ad wlthi 
payment todayl
The Tarliin Publishing Schedule
October 26 
November 2 
November 9 
November 16 
November 23
All submisions for publica
tion must be received the 
Thursday before publication 
along with payment.
AYL AICAIG 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Because of the increased interest in study abroad after
OIE's OPEN HOUSE and the EDUCATION ABROAD FAIR,
|' WE HAVE EXTENDED THEAPPLICATION DEADLINE FOR THE SPRING '93 SEMESTER AT THE
CARNEGIE MELLON CENTRE DE TOURS
fm ykjhid thnmsMUNTIL FRIDAY, NOVEMBER g0
c
Join your friends who have already decided to spend the 
semester in France's beautiful Loire Valley.
FOR MORE INFORMATION AND AN APPLICATION, DROP BY THE Office of International Education 
219 Smith Hall (behind Hamburg Hall) 
or Call Emily Bianchini at x4969
Tours 
F rance
r

---------------------------------------------------

lkej,M d HiijM  yIM ynhunmd JnhmMSfM TMeekm 5mfpMhifu3d vfuuiFjhSId vMmmi3epnmfn DA wsukFMh gOODInternational Festival:
#nufm ;,Mhfsn nma uIM JnhfFFMnm
2pMmui ahn1 shk1ai 
kpMh rkjhan3 hjm
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon helped make the world a little smaller this week by sponsoring the second annual International Festival, with a central theme focusing on Latin America and the Caribbean. Students, faculty, and the rest of the community came out in force to participate in, learn about, and experience aspects of many different and interesting cultures.Numerous programs and activities were offered over the four days of celebration., The festivities were kicked off Wednesday evening in the CFA building with an entertaining opening ceremony that featured a calypso steel band. A reception followed with over 250 people in attendance. Later in the evening, Odila, or the Orchestra of Latin American Instruments, played in the Skibo Ballroom  a performance which included 300 instruments. Dance lessons and pinata-making sessions were offered on Wednesday, as well.Thursday was another activity-filled day. An information fair was held throughout the afternoon that featured music and printed media on many of the different countries involved. An arts and crafts fair was also held which displayed various cultural pastimes of different nations. Personal journeys, or informal talks of political, social, economic, or cultural nature given by CMU students, faculty, or community members on subjects of their choice, were conducted throughout the '' evening. Speakers included professor Erick Langer ofthe History Department who , f spoke of his experiences in the Gran Chaco Desert (a region that covers areas in
Please see INT'L FESTIVAL, page L3
Jonh Froomnn/Tnrtnn Photo EditorStudents enjoyed the Information fair, where they could learn about the different cultures In Latin American and tho Carlbboan.
tMiufpne WnhufsfWnmui 
shMnuM Wfnunid eMnhm unmSk
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Editor
It takes two to tango, as participants in the Latin dance lessons learned. Students learned many dances, 
Including the mamba, cha cha, and meringue.
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Last weeks International Festival brought with it several opportunities to do-it-yourself, Latin American style.Wednesdays piata making and Saturdays Latin dance lessons were two of the biggest favorites, bringing together students, faculty, " and community members to celebrate some of the regions most famous cultural heritage.The tradition of piatas started at masquerade balls during the Renaissance. __________________________________Today, the game of smashing open the piata to obtain the candy sealed inside is a popular Christmas festivity in Mexico and Spain.The game was just as popular when about 25 students and faculty members gathered to hear junior history major Fernando DeGuia speak and instruct on the talent of piata making.After recounting some of the history of the piata tradition, DeGuia taught the group how to make the non-traditional posterboard piata.The posterboard piata is not as sturdy or attracLatin dancing is performed 
much closer to your partner 
[than other kinds of ballroom 
dancing].
 Cindy Wood 
Latin dance instructor
tive a piata as its papier-mch counterpart, but at an average of a days working time to make the papier-mch variety, the posterboard piata is a welcome substitute.DeGuia told the participants how to form the body of the donkey piata, using simple posterboard shapes and tape.The head and neck were formed by rolling up a section of newspaper and bendingit, using the larger end as the head.Posterboard ears were made from a strip, glued around the head to form two identical
Paper cups with the edges slit to glue onto the body wereusedtomakethe four legs of the donkey.The donkey was decorated with brightly colored construction paper (crepe paper can also be used) which was slit into strips to give the fringed effect one typically sees on a piata.After the demonstration, DeGuia brought out a professionally-made parrot piata purchased at a Latin-American store and let members of the audience try their hands at cracking it open by whacking it with a plastic bat.
Please see PARTICIPATION, page L3tkka :jnefu3d pnejM afinWWkfmui fmuMhmnufkmne,fmaMa
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan StaffwriterBut alas, alack, the only decent The coffees were a Jamaican food and coffee offered was for a blend, Colombian supremo, and price and even it wasn't worth French roast. Maybe not the most I am feeling beat up by my the outrageous cost. As it went, if glamorous, but adequate  exown expectations. I went to the there was a way for me to de- cept for the fact that all three of Latin America and Caribbean mand my time back, I would. them looked and tasted like dirty events that offered food and cof- The ad for the International tap water, fee to sample andexperience. The only things I like better than international cuisines and coffees are free international cuisines and coffees (as free as 
$18,000 a year can be).
I I will be the
first to admit that
The only decent food offered was 
for a price and even then it 
wasnt worth the outrageous 
cost. As it went, if there was a 
way for me to demand my time 
back, I would.
expectations might have een a tad overblown. There
I dont understand why. I mean, it just isnt that difficult to make coffee. I would have preferred that they pulled the Folgers switch on me; then I might have been able to taste coffee.The food consisted of... pastries. Thats it  pastries (and nothing too exotic at that).The people who bought theseCoffee Hour said that they would have food and coffee.were visions of Jamaican blue The title of the event gave me particular pastries must have j mountain coffee and chicken jerk the assumption that the food and thought that Betty Crockers dancing in my fevered imagina- coffee would be international, and kitchens are in a foreign country.
it was  sort of. Please see FOOD, page L4
josn freeman/ lariari rrioio tailor
The arts and crafts fair allowed browsers to view and purchase Jewelry, clothing, and other Latin treasures.

---------------------------------------------------

eau Chie
AB LECTURES PRESENTS:
GMamMian3d wsukFMh DuI 00 W, PbfFk 8neehkk,
 H (i
.... . ...............................  .....s. ...i,.. sS
co-sponsored by AB Lectures and the Political Speakers Forum Board

---------------------------------------------------

yIM ynhunm . JnhmMSfM TMeekm . DA wsukFMh gOOD0
Students mambo, 
whack piatas
PARTICIPATION, from page LI
After several tries, one student succeeded in breaking the linata, and the contents (candy) spilled out onto the floor. Of lurse, a mad rush toward the treasure of the Latin-American tradition ensued.On Saturday, another great Latin tradition was featured, as Latin dance lessons were offered in Skibo Ballroom.The lessons were sponsored by the CMU Ballroom Dance Club, and guests were invited to learn the rumba, mamba, cha cha, and meringue, as well as several other steamy Latin dance iteps.Led by instructor Cindy Wood and Ballroom Dance Club member Eric Anderson (junior, math/CS), approximately 50 fumbling audience members soon became sure-footed masters of the Latin moves.After learning the basic steps of all the dances, the group moved to the more difficult turns and some faster steps.Then Wood announced that in truth, the Latin dancing is performed much closer to your partn p r, and she asked participants to get up close and personal wit h their partners.The event was thoroughly enjoyed by the participants. It was great to learn new, exotic dance steps, said junior ECE tajor Greg Shrack, andit was even better with the traditional ,atino music.Itwasalsoa hit with onlookers who came and went, watching he dancers and sometimes even trying their feet at the steps themselves.At the end of the session, a group of professional Latin American dancers performed for the newly-trained dancers, i wowing them with complex, quick, and graceful moves.The International Festival was more than just a spectator event. These events were two of many offerings which encouraged hands-on participation.
Over there.
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Editor
Students came to the Wherrett Room on Friday to learn about study abroad programs. Several programs were represented at the 
conference, Including the Semester at Sea program sponsored by Pitt, the Peace Corps, and the Fulbrlght Scholarship program.
Second annual festival covers 22 countries in four-day spanArts, crafts, food, films, entertainment draw crowds despite cold weather
the community that people often dont get to learn about. Lopez also feels that the festival was a wonderful educational experience: This is a great opportunity for the school. It brings a minorINT'L FESTIVAL, from page LIBolivia, Argentina, and Paraguay), and Professor Jacobo lielak of Civil Engineering who [discussed the devastating earthquake that hit Mexico City on eptember 19, 1985, one of the countrys most de- itructive.Other programs included the showing of the film Viridiana by AB Films that night in Doherty Hall.B Several personal journeys were told duringthe day on Friday, and one of as Latin America, to promote ineral programs were held, including an International Soccer Tournament, a food fair, and a presentation of Chilean art.In the evening, a parade of costumes was offered, featuring the
great interest was given by graduate student Myrna Lopez of the H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy.She spoke of the symbolism involved in the traditional ceremonial costumes worn in her parents homeland of Mexico. Lopez did great deal of research for her presentation and says she actually learned more in the process. She jumped at the opportunity to participate in the festival because he wanted to share things with
ity group into the spotlight, such traditional casual and formal gar-ments worn by those throughout Latin America and the Caribbean.Freshman drama major Lourdes Benedicto was a" part of the show, modeling a costume from Brazil.------------------ Benedictowanted to participate in the festival because of her Hispanic heritage. I wanted to
do my part for my heritage, she says.Im lucky to have participated in an event that encompassed all of these countries and cultures. I was very impressed by all that I
saw.The International Festival was held to promote learning of a global nature among the campus and community.
festivities, the planners seemed successful in fulfilling their goalti of enriching and spreading international awaronoss and promoting involvement and inter-Throughout the four days of est in various cultures.
[I] wanted to share things with 
the community that people often 
don't get to learn about. 
 Myrna Lopez 
Heinz student, Festival speaker
terest and learning of another culture. I really enjoyed it and saw a lot of the community participating in it as well.Amid fierce winds and dropping temperatures, the Festival came to a close on Saturday. SevSELL FUNDRAISING CANDYLOWEST PRICES-NO RISK-TOP BRANDS-REESE, M&M, HERS HEY,AND MORE......CALL FOR DETAILS & BROCHUREMcKeesport candy co 
673-4406
Are you gay, lesbian, or bisexual or 
wondering if you might be? Do you 
have questions or concerns about 
your sexual orientation? Thinking 
of coming out or feeling the need 
for support in that process? A 
group is forming to provide a safe, 
supportive place to ask questions 
and discuss concerns. 
Confidentiality assured.
Call the Counseling and Student 
Development Center at 268-2922 
for more information.
P;l2 
$0c00 !
wrrMh Skka Tkman3 uIhkjSI thfan3d 
On,0W, 1fuI iMeMsu iu3efiuc
veMniM FhfmS kh ,Mmufkm uIfi nac
Tn3 mku FM jiMa fm skm)jmsufkm 
d 1fuI nm3 kuIMh krrMhc 
2CWfhMi ggUDgUOD
LEWIS
HAIR
SALON
g0 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside
AD60A0
-fitness "ccnter
FORBES AVENUE below The Attic & Upstage
IN 
OAKLAND
EST. 1979 13 YEARS STRONG
22 Nautilus Exercise Machines
Free WeightsStairmastersLifecyclesComplete Lockeroom Facilities Onen />' HEARNRH RN 
^ U O00 ; T  00vcT PP7 U
SPECIAL 
STUDENT OFFER
* BACK-TO-SCHOOL SAVINGS ** 40% OFF *
HURRY!
LIMITED TIME OFFER 
CALL TODAY 683-0900
"Through the Leadership
Emmanuel Tillman
Development Program, Northern
MBA/Production Supervisor
Telecom drives you to initiate
Morrissville Customer Service Center
and strengthen change 
throughout the business."
At Northern Telecom, our vision of ihe future is to be ihe world's leading supplier of telecommunications. We're exploring the potential of today's most exciting technologies. To find out more about career opportunities, contact your placement office or call 1-8OO-NORTHERN (Press Option 6) (TDD/1-214-684-3188). An Equal Opportunity Employer.
MBA on Campus Interviews:
Wednesday, November 18
mnhuIshmuMeMsj,
yMsImkekS3 uIM 1khea sneei kmc

---------------------------------------------------

6yIM ynhunm . JnhmMSfM TMeekm . DA wsukFMh gOOD
Festival food wasn t 
really international
FOOD, from page LI
Dont get me wrong  the pastries werent bad. They just werent international. The only saving grace of this event was the classical guitarist that was playing, who happened to be excellent. I was a little disappointed, but I had the arts and crafts fair the next day.Unfortunately, I must have read the ad wrong or something, because the only food discernible at the arts and craft fair was a half eaten package of Oreos on an unused table. (No, I didnt eat any. I didnt want to deprive anyone of experiencing the glorious international flavor of the R.J. Nabisco Company food products.)The Tartan Grill was offering, in its own fashion, international food. The food was both average and overpriced, in true Dining Service fashion. The Jamaican pancakes were regular pancakes that someone put canned fruit toppings on. The Jamaican beef patty was ground beef in dough with some hot pepper mixed in. (In other words, a taco.)After paying real cash-money for these items I felt like I had been mugged except I felt less self-righteous dignity (at least if youre mugged you can go to the police). The only way it could have been worse is if they put up cheesy (in the purest Velveeta sense) decorations, which of course they did.I only had one last recourse, the food fair. Actually, except for the steel band, it was an okay experience. The food was a little steep in price but tasty. The Puerto Rican food booth won for both tastiness and reasonable price. I had never had an empanada (beef and vegetable dumpling) and was pleasantly surprised with the taste. The Csyun food was also very tasty but one got very little for the price.As mentioned earlier, the only problem was the music. They werent bad, just not good. It cant be an easy thing for American, middle-class, teenage kids to create authentic Caribbean music.One of the young women looked as though she didnt feel good and had to leave the stage. The only thing I can think that happened was that she couldnt stand being associated with the whole event, a feeling I could certainly understand.
vnhMmuiN GMMbMma FMSfmi thfan3Highlights include talent show, Mehrabian address
By LAURA McCLURE
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Its Parents Weekend once again and you know what that means. For one weekend a year, parents all over the place leave their everyday routines to try to clue in on yours  what you eat, if you study, and exactly how you do. anything on so little sleep.The events of next Friday, Saturday, and Sunday will provide them a great opportunity to figure out just that. With all sorts of events geared toward your parents information and entertainment, Parents Weekend will also provide them plenty of free time to catch up with you, which is probably their most important reason for visiting, anyway.There are 22 events in all scheduled for next weekend, rangingfrom the Student Talent Show on Saturday night to a Brunch/Coffeehouse on Sunday morning. Friday is a light schedule with registration and only a few events ... mainly because many parents wont arrive until later in the weekend, says Lisa Lipscomb, Student Affairs representative and the woman in charge of the Parents Weekend events.One of the most informative events scheduled for your family other than 
possibly Parents Weekend Registration, where theyll receive information about the city, a complete, detailed
schedule of events, and a copy of the Word, is the Student Service Fair being held Saturday in the Skibo Ballroom. The purpose of the Service Fair is to provide representatives from various campus organizations to answer questions and give advice. Representatives from the Financial Aid Office, Student Affairs office, Housing, Health Services, and other places like that will definitely be on hand, says Lipscomb. All of the offices will be open over the weekend, in order for parents to get an idea of what the faculty and staff are like.PresidentMehrabian will also address the University at 10 am on Saturday to give basically a ... State of the University Address, as Lipscomb says, and should your family be interested in the departmental meetings, they can go to those, too, at 9 am, also Saturday.As for CMU athletic events, you can take your parents to a football or soccer game as well. This Saturday, both the last home football game, CMU vs. Grove City, and a soccer game, CMU vs. Washington University, will be held at Gesling Stadium.Later, you can get off campus and impress your folks with your knowledge of the city by taking a guided City Bus Tour, departing from campus both Sat
urday and Sunday.Theres also a Carnegie Museum tour, sponsored by the Pittsburgh Horizons
program, which takes students, faculty and staff off campus to cultural events And since this Saturday night is also Halloween, a calypso band will play to give students a chance to see their par. ents while theyre here, and not fegj obligated to sit in a hotel on Halloween night, says Lipscomb.There are also quite a few new events coming this Parents Weekend. For the first time, student organizations will be able to participate in the events, tours, and fund-raisers. Residence hall tours also a new plan, will give parents an opportunity to understand whats avail, able to their sons and daughters in the coming years.I have a very good feeling about this year, says Lipscomb. Parents are par. ticipating in much greater numbers than last year. There are 225 families signed up now, as opposed to only 124 families last year. Weve gotten a wonderful response, says Lipscomb.As you can see, there are plenty of events to choose from this upcoming ParentsDay Weekend. No matter which ones you and the folks choose to attend just remember that the point is to have a good time with your family.If youd like more information about the events planned for Parents Weekend, you can pick up a schedule at Skibo Information Desk, or call Lipscomb at x2073 in the Student Affairs Office.
mejoinus...we are the United U)cuj
United Way
11717^1 ^|ii
nq? Call
mu
X21II
1742jr i i-a. m t P murPof
Its only the beginning...
realizable future...
Thursday, November 5, 1992 
10:30 am - 4:00 pm
In Skibo Ballroom
The Business Opportunities Conference is a place where students and companies come together for the purposes of ex
changing information and discussing future employment opportunities. 
Career opportunities for people majoring in Industrial Management, Economics, Information and Decision Sciences, Social 
and Decision Sciences, Statistics, Operations Research, Professional Writing, or anyone interested in business.
For further information, contact Beth Moses at 268-4705, bm25 or Peter Chang at 681-7276, peech@cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

Calvin and Hobbes is. Or is it?
Whats a Wendel!?
Look, tWJI?' 
I i+'s ready *Jice 7o st /ov->,
l^-mP S+ Ta Stt>f>/y
by Matt Goldberg
^foo fake. my be.J.Yow tak. y food- VW muck more o^e yo^ 3I n^'+0 'fce. frotvi rn&Ty
Doonesbury is, and will always be.
TihtstfFi ftom  On-Campu /?1rA/ y JirNiFcK/l/lLe'

---------------------------------------------------

w- cBw-U Hy 85(7P -2 
5v A'-27' ;ol2(yHP2(P 
l H2 yw J-Ho(27 
fK HK2 y-;yU
^
/...IT ALSO SMS THAT THERE'5 A FORMAL PROOFOF y-HP J;HT HG ; Y2;2v 
v;PyHJ 27l2wv2 h" 
\ ;y y-2 8wyywT /~b
Bmc es uIM FkC U U 
y-2LB(2 Twy
MEorERe plTAit
H vHP82H2l2 /
^ ttA^BE NJEXT TIME 
JE SHOULD C,ET "qRAPE NMU^HTS"
Tlit FOR 
HIG QUALUT 
I WEAPON...
opM hmMartM 
uj dPWalnC 
v PEwbEIPW
 -2Ld G-;yB y-UPN ^fyy oG7Qc
#ewwKP ,StK ; \
^ (27;or wt G 
NOROSEGP-D cmtUt)ft'
Hr ; 1InuVm /H
wK;3 KfeeMh 
bi/N/Jy, THIS 
j 3kjh 
;Py J-ACCO
HEY, n Y;lPd 
MOT FOR
liv LDgew 
9 Gw"
HHHHHHHc s!Y lupT
Wh3c T EIM0U5
r\\\^ CARNAt,
DON'T UoRR)', \ 
,3 Fkmk S 
ONLY MTRIVED\PlOT DII/ICE5, X
Jo A TIWW SCUEWHEe... , V IpaTnpw NowHrfRe/NowHefti:, 'if-. tCLAWAftE LIVED 000 -6fU3^y(wT8fv \B\L IfffiWASAM AVKRAOE QOYLBAblAJO AM Vo  hU.TRAk Lice. yuTf Tob^y. - _ i\y
Bo WAS TWENTY'S'* AA WOBKlWG AS A CLEBK AT A LOCAL K'MART. C, r-, UWTIL TODAY. -
7wy-H7E 2l2( J-;efQ2o TH 
8wPP Ht2c T2 HAt> t2G vrse2GT 
q ;UlF ve27Ny Ew w5y OFTEN.
) r hope * xr bOESHT ^.RfirlN.TAopwg TuEimIWOULD CHANGE.
SSSB./ B00. we haveN to oet our,pF ^^kHEE, NOM Hi , C* whatTHIS ftUX SVC^0W d ; Tw8w-fhrfyww KTwG ) H V-Ji, >^V/Jfo NAME?Y /J
I HOPE X  HAVE E*AT ^J-;7E2d]
COOKS'LUTERAIA/.Conv ei t _ . .THIS GUV,r BECAUSE xCA MOftOW? I'M A BO0 HIGGQUAL HAMBEWTRCHBc) CA WELL. L k TYC LETS Ak,.
I GO utdn youTIv,
c82J;5P2^
ojM Ht2o2v27oP ON XT.
hf akmBu! B LIEVE LYOUl J[ccMeOw!
You ARE'COMiMr;t>0 lOO UNVERSTAND He?
y.kkTDRUWWS
, /OKAY,lkK;L!
AND So 0EG IMS THE SAq* OF QOQ. BE HERE NEXT WEEK WHEN WE ANSWER QuEstiom3 _/KE : WHO is Gog UamQerstromqiE (thesecond one-) ? Where are -they oino? What the heck xs going on ?
J yreMuM nMI uIkiM 
hm PMhfMi K-k-nlM vVot scemili'.^1 lSHiil0fCE 
U IMh1MMK Acncg, W H yw(L ;>urs ;d
B UeeruM(c 2TPLf7bcU \jhuuM
J UrTi T)IC\JSSDiFreEfes,s^LL we? uri>, He!s 10T WDs, KU\le I, \ 
g M frfM k,Mhp fTf>d F1s
O1Ewv 3dGG11-v HkE:80a6M2^ smiTTD "RHikt, while ( AM 
PuTwe; ; P2;Pw'; "TkTlE-T."^We also oar fawOth  J TMts. I i Ve jfr -;K MY TWT ;efkccc ^
= M) ALlfloOiiH Via) 
^SHuciPeR, Ifee Are 
yfrkiM p6\k Jenf, Iter C M k 
Ba^f7rerfG kh IM 
AfbRfHe^fofJS) Af<D 
ffA y>;ursT^
CUAJt-V ... THlKCv 
TMjc Guu^h Plngt 
I TdssiBc/ say W.
WARN1MC,-- COKJTEKJTS SOLO BW CARDIMALITW, NOT VOLUME.
yIM HaJefufu3 Jhfifi F3 PseI EkeaiuMfm nma TfKs lfiskmufW^x'i Li_er J^uNiJrBy PtYTEK I. eSpaga6i9
/ / CoD tMWiuCi i YAno TA
) r Lkk ; wH y(k ruk- 7L rG
9B H To nxur,5yU r;yfh ess-Gf;y-c GyHc
By Christian Borle.
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON
The woods were darfc and foreboding, and Alice sensed 
that sinister eyes were watching her every step. Worst 
of all, she knew that Nature abhorred a vacuum.
OH, NO, NOT AGAIN
The Far Side is, yetit does not think
Well, Ill be! Its still there! The hen house 
I used to watch as a kid!
-2gx ;5yw7d Hy Pf^P -2(2 
y-;y y-2(2BP ; Jw57y;82 
H7tH7Hy2 75T82( wt 
J2(2; v22yP HG 
2l2(G 8wK wt 
"wT2J)w P"
"Nerd!... Dang!"

---------------------------------------------------

De* Andre Simmons, Arcane Slayer, by
Michael 
Beard, will 
not be 
appearing 
this week. 
Mike says *1 
have a 
painting due 
Monday. 
Thanks a lot, 
J. G.'
I JZt teili1 TVwT X 'm gonna.
I jcicK T^-eiC b^ttsf____________
) f^QT~yo^J~Caf^c)o THgT~/
CvJhi Mol! Zlrn THT
X J*rsJ% po'nT * ^
I W / to Pill Tn<^ if Tv'e>' e'l{l~
A [ :ky >,BY FHP,fro <xms' yInu fr
\ x listened * ^ ?nfe 'n V a uwie- X wouic/ t
heard itj. co>/vt believe 
-tvs5.' A? Joon 
Y C fd 
best (Vi cnd5becaore <"'eK anj SvaeKfr// .
(]nj~ihccr / c)S5 Tv'i5 1tl/I )b\J a hourI y<MTfcif  ,
A of^vjfeoat //j.
5^oot''r'3^) II V-,a.\/
RoooiproiJv)^F v c AnIT Fdb_______/ incompettnrI / dic-ectcr- HeI Cani (viotiVot^V I rot  /
Egoisti"11/, 
Avtee S^P'rJpg Ronnie
x neao CaoV do TheiT
because you Ve dead! See? Laserj
k NORLS HIGQU k E ^^1
Be S'idei, yooy c\j fo your nex/- ~fpU0 yYvP rkh hMaM,Wufkm  
/ io WhaT rfo X hwVC 
iv do rJ*?T 7 A/ot 5boot
^blV^iOa/
rnSSage5.
^CoOCenircnTi
fTr405 UtVorr. SHit/)Winn
ThaX5 ffdd  J iVd^eniy 
tMMe HBlM n 
fVjrple. IJdana.
J Know/
xu 3
hfoSiT2S5- /'Be.
x^Caccio fv-TioJU/Ky don-i you /; roe a i/r
\ T'irei ?
.""SAA
-M;cyy
(rok rat r M;raakg ,;lmo
If the deficit were an ict-crcjn cone, how mould you lick it ?
Ti
x PfM
I'd /jc-k tha\ 
ice crcawdsii ' 
melts of/ the 
cone. I call it 
the'trickJe-doiMTmethod of eating.
I'd spoon-feed it to Conprzss 
ku. the band.
T^Vi.LTt'teS OKI lift
CUVr&p- iitvtetJ ; IW
I'd get them 
11 together 
and spank 
them hand.
DON'T FORGET TO VOTE NEXT TUESOAY.1
By GARY LARSON
gOOD tjGkBTc Hms UrTemFjfMa HUU 'mhUMf1f vr P3mafsnuM
; So/ Clattnce D'sqs! -1 'fbouft'was you!.- N&\ie< leaned your scales or [modes, did you, young man? Just sc repeal S^afourJ in dass-, as  recall -.-S^L /ooK \ at you, you '/one -deaf J'rflz w >Ha ha ha h* ha.'.. What's ihaT \ c 'nord you're kutcherinjjy ^ Ob, my Godi. \ \ \ >^=Xt15 Mr. Blanch X I my ddmusic teachery J%T-==?f f~ ,
Suddenly, there he was, running along the far shoreright in front of Bob and Vera, who would always remember they once saw the legendary "Character of the Lake.

---------------------------------------------------

UF Ivl 
ttLU3*9 MA1+ ^(?>rwiN/e
muiomJ'o \ sue lakesw,MINP HAS B6&J /I 7W <5W0K-rmmep j^jontau. mu. /"IT' \nwdAP"
rajlte.'YWKWWwow/mm
Mi
7 OCIVM/im WJB&fJ. pxoox/mm mu.\nwndA\ \ suooemm m vm /T> MOTHERS 1VSH0M 7f wnitir , ------ /
AH/ AVP VJHO SVaetifULLY SUMeSTBP " # H/5MRHr5 mr th& ft/wm) umr. cc&mtfc tp omenCAST YZ/IR ? \
9Limcevrwmsm.
QWLe'a km softroFMmyj k, ON MC >
[ICOUCPxem CM m$Vumgo IN'% y
rW6eST"S7Utf? wotesr-vmKu I wrne* mr fSHZF&Pfm mrtfeATlOAFfcs .
' 6cf.m I ,, /? RMH / 1AK. /
' I SUE&&I ^ 
U)RShO'T ItO THELOOP U3H^ THIS
S enatt occueGea
kEMTLE^EW, I t>OMT WEED TZj TELL YOU 
-THPtT THIS CoRPO^AT|0J |S /#j frlftEv NEipiaEp sTRAir^rn-r
Mi\Kf tiftti- S 'r' M*0**8*6 T! L RBHhgoo LEE STREer, 
Miuen's |NeewY oNrHEAT) QUARTERS OF THE 6it\MT R.!>TiHGUeu. Cot*-PAn( miinb'o^tf bt^uifr.i vt 'CUV 'j+,'i'l<t I**"*
0M6TIME A60( WE WADE THE 
DEUSiOfJ T OOCENTRATE
kUni v||knisw kU DEPewse Contracts  ___^
GEARfD SateLY ToR THE PUfcPOSE oF THE 
CR.E^oO OF TACTlCAL WSAPdmS.. LofTX THE 
EMD OF THE CoLb WJAT*., oufc. SER
VICES AfLE NO U>fJ6ER VITAL TO TH 6ov;eRrJM6MT. VOH KfJM UHAT r?/JS
\jj SoLV THE RIGHTS To ALL OF ouR- cortsAf*e*- protects 'to 
T^e GEMAAM^ V JAPAKJfSE. /VLL 
OF OUR. EFFORTS U>(?R6 THENJ'
TtfXS XS CrC& iP* 
M'<. f&H SNMXAMij
shFre man/ f.E'cEwr ThtPn/EdhioSumMf
fPpoRTl HAyf HA>t> T>lSlHAl VIEl01(
twy ion non/ Tb veveiop suc>- GesTloWS f\s To Houi TO ~m/tMTHIS CDHPMY AROwb/^
Mo Moivs E)iop.BITMJr 1,ANET59 S Mode -pW&i BILLIU6 THE Pgur^bOiJ. W SHR-T( WE 6pak 4hSP9Y1B9
v MMJoi^1- kTFI9 BEaAee l$EAl 0iCArlUAbAly
/Jig IT.... nt\KG? GET HE TUB 
PUWEHT AMD 7WF Jo/HTiHICFS 
OF STAFF ON THE PHQUe'
HE SAY* Y0MKV,
rJ :r':' T'iitffiS^COMICS /'aeservri:
Sil^A DlviHi-i Uvi,i -
yAS:GTteLiccv^r
Ht U RRttHlMgggtoat.^MCWoM^M-lElARive^EXTENSIONNIOHTCIV&
/WAtE/cCALL
lIcuETzr-KA/i6TwCaT16BEA.H
c5iALMT^
9)5O) H;;57U . 0
Stuff they send us that we get to print for free
This week: Mutt Munroe, P.I.
 By Linda Brow-Phillips and Deborah Bombich,
I'M Rimmm  rnsmn, 
i BILLIMM. I Musrste Murr^ mm/mmmy
\{XTl]issBiWA DoCr 
\ D.T.ifi/ DD5 M/i /Ts 
AD\/A^TA^iS. T<
/y, SHRtMK. I'M A DDL, I/mwarn v
7 m{i mlTUAV-) j i no P/ty/i/V ^bwrtfM 7Z> /^ / ^Sa 
PUBUt R&rzoons VW 
A/OW WAT MX o\j , FOR SOU BUDDY ? fC:-
f hj, PdPdccncNNc

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
J( sss,iM 1IM
'SSi f*T
arf'.;sfc
yIM onhbU 
KmfSIu h0uj,i
(kF fMrMea ahn1fmS km f,nSfmnufkm
By JASON IRWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Im not going after respect, just fun, said Rob Liefeld. If you dont know who Rob Liefeld is, then just think back to the Levis jeans commercial with the comic book artist. Thats him. But for comicbook enthusiasts across the country, mention his name and watch peoples eyes light up. No one in the comic book industry has made as much of his or her talent and imagination as Liefeld has.After working with Marvel comics for awhile, Liefeld had the courage and insight to go out on his own by starting Image comics. Liefeld confirmed that the reason he and other artists like Todd McFarlin and Jim Lee left the established comicbook companies was to gain more creative control. The artists were sick of the way they were being treated.The comics cpming out of Image like Youngblood, Brigade, 
Supreme, and Cyber Force, just to name a fe(w, have been received with great enthusiasm.So much so that Liefeld is in the process of making deals with Steven Spielberg
series. Liefeld said, It immortalizes my characters. One can be assured that the characters will be top quality and durable since Liefeld will be involved in all phases of the design and development. The action figures will be avail able just in time for next Christmas.In recent years, comics have b e - comea Shaft shows no mercy.
large part of pop culture. In this very competitive industry, I asked Liefeld how he and Image comics managed to maintain an edge with other competitors. Liefeld replied that the comicbook industry is in its infancy yet the old guys are set in their ways; they cant believe you can do better. Liefeld tries to span generations with his work while keeping with the times. This is implemented with a young cutting-edge staff. But when confronted by fans, hq asks them what they like and why. He/is also
aware of current topics such as the importance of voting. Liefeld made a full- page ad for Rock the Vote and incorporated the importance of voting in the comic script itself.
Youngblood, Liefelds most popular current comic, is based on the concept of super hero celebrities and how he thinks their lives would really be like in society today. I asked Liefeld if he could explain the reason for Youngbloods tremendous popularity; part ofhis response was, Theyre just drawn cooler." Also Liefeld takes the traits and characteristics ofhis characters to a much deeper level than has been done in the past. This annoys some ofhis fans who dont have the patience to watch and wait for the characters to unfold. Butformost of the late teens- early twenties target audience, this deeper characterde- velopmentis awel- come change from shallow characters. So anybody that was bothered 
b y th e i n - t r o - duction of the charcourtesy of Rob Liefeld
ter Prophet, Liefeld says to be patient,Youll see what happens with him.Many fans have been bothered by the way the comics sporadically come out.Liefeld assured me that this problem will change within a year. He said, In our second year, weve gotten things going. In the first year it wasnt that anyone wasnt doing their job, itwas just the need for setup time and the fact that a certain amount of control was being taken out of their hands by the printer and color separator. We thought we
courtesy or Marc Sllvestri and Imago Comics
Cyblade examines her destructions.
were taking ourselves out of that kind of situation leaving Marvel, so to solve that problem within a year, all color separating will be done in house. Handling all phases of print as well as scripting, drawing, plotting, and coloring, keeps Liefeld and the Image staff very busy. But at Image theyre working for themselves, and every employee gets royalties. Even though Liefelds extremely busy, he always takes time out for his fans. Keep an eye out for Liefeld because hell be starting an East Coast tour in January.A lot of what goes on in Liefelds comics reflect whats going on in his life. In the third issue of Youngblood, its easy to see that a lot of the problems facing the character Shaft are things that Liefeld is dealing with in real life.At the age of 25, he already considers himself an old man in the industry. Liefeld feels that he is still growing as an artist and hopes to be around for a really long time, Im 25 years old. Wait till Im 30!
By BRENDAN McFEELY
Tartan News Editor
More than 50 years ago, a young cartoonist named Bob Kane was challenged by his editors at Detective Comics to come up with a costumed character who could be as successful as the one headlining in the companys monthly Action Comics magazine. Kanes response was to create the dark vengeance-driven vigilante, the Batman.Batman, as he is more popularly known, has been enjoying a renaissance of sorts in the last decade, starting with the publication in 1986 by DC Comics of writer/artist Frank Millers genre-busting masterpiece, The Dark Knight 
Returns, a four-chapter graphic novel that tells an apocalyptic tale of the life of a 50-year old Batman.This renaissance has continued in the form of two feature films, starring Michael Keaton as the Dark Knight, a resurgence in sales of the comic-book adventures of the Batman, sparking the initiation by DC of two new series', 
Legends oftheDarkKnight, and Shadow of the Bat, starring the character, and', most recently, Batman: the Animated Series, a half-hour, daily program , currently airing on the Fox network.This new series hearkens back to the Batman of old, the dark Batman of the 1930s, while also trying to capture the feel of modernity that current fans ot'the character have come to expect. In fact, this series seems to be a synthesis of a number of the media in which Batman has appeared. It has the violence of the comics and the films but softballed in a package designed to be appropriate for afternoon television, just like the '60s TV show. It also has a theme by Danny Elfman, the man responsible for scoring the two feature films.The cartoon calls up memo- ries of the animated shorts starring Superman that were produced by the Floischer animation studios; during the 1940s. Its architecture, its vehicles, and its /costumes are straight out of that era but tempered with a certain amount of modernity. That makes it hard to pin downjust when this series is supposed to be taking place. The animation is smooth, though sometimes over-exaggerated (the designers decided to give Batman a chin that sticks Out
Pleas see BATMAN, page L13
Batman storms through darkness.
Batman logo is courtesy of DC Comics.
Phantom of the Attic racks up comics
By CESAR SANCHEZ
Tartan Darkroom. Manager
Hassan disrupts the synapses with an energy field.
Courtesy of Rob Liefeld
Ever wonder where dozens of kids, teenagers, college students, and even grown-ups go on Fridays and spend their money?A weekly ritual for a diverse group of people draws them to their local comic book store.The new comics arrive, and the crowds gather.The continuation of a story line from two weeks, a month, or sometimes even longer is now on sale. Let them gather.Comics have thrived on these loyal fans who shell out money to read about their favorite hero or heroine.So youve heard of Batman, who hasnt; youve heard of Superman and ofSpiderman, and ofcourse Wonder Woman. Well, if thats all you know, youve only hit the tip of the iceberg.Take a stroll down to 214 S.Craig Street to find a little shop called Phantom of the Attic.Inside, youll find hundreds of comic books, diverse books, magazines, stories ofheroes and villains, movie adaptations, fiction, science fiction, documentaries, and more.The comic industry has grown to epic proportions with new publishing companies expanding and sprouting up left and right. All these publish a wide
assortment of titles and books that deal with a large range of stories.Characters such as Cerebus the Aard- vark, who travels through the barbarian
Cesar Sanchez/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
The Phantom of the Attic unveils racks and racks 
of comics.
age; Sandman, more of an adult story line illustrated in the comic book gehre; Akira, Japanese animation and story
line at its finest; and Hardboiled, a renegade android, a tale of ultra violence, represent just a handful of the diverse nature of the comic world. From the funny to the sublime, from the perverse to the extraordinary, from the intriguing to the morbid, there is something for every taste.Comics have evolved from a childrens pastime and hobby to what some people consider an art form. The quality of the books ranges from the quality of the art; hand drawn, computer graphics, paints and collage, to the type of papers and bindings, which determine the price.And you won't find just comic books as before. There are other publications: graphic novels, illustrated short stories, books on artist's sketches and artworks, volumes of collected comics and stories.If you do find yourself in Phantom look around, pick upafewbooks, leaf through some magazines. Comics plaster the walls, and posters hang from the ceilings, and books and books line the shelves. The size and intimacy of the store just begs for you to stay and look around.If you stay there long enough, there is bound to be something to catch your fancy, whether its the story line, the artwork, or something else. You can ask friends or friends of friends about what there is to buy and what there is to recommend.But there is so much that you just have to go and find out about it for yourself. But be warned. This type of activity could be addictive.

---------------------------------------------------

t C^Xv* t 1
' ,v^oV\4"V'
\i n* <0&
te
^ -V*
* vvei
L.V & _\] O^- ^6 .0$ .'
Ke ,M.e6 _0-c v
^vs^v
V V" ,s0
n< o^\e^e Ce ^ *e* v* 1
a*e<
WVP ce^v  v vv tftl>. '-' a4 v.. V-'j:,,-'
c>to '-' ^ t <%'*' -vlP^h>BV\Px$-i (
*^ *\vt A
, ,5^w' _v^ ^ v i IVe
. \vv
7^'
r,eV'
*,c^e^ * .^Vr ' ;^VIV
1* v$
 -^0  VT'_
V'^v*& vf>
MV1 
t>e
V V*
c d W\ M>e c
^vVO^VV^'
a tov^;
&*
\\0*'
AlftP' 
;eS^>V' 0t\Ce '
c
,<3V'-V' ,.y
'1 -01 .sv^. V4tP a" te^^. r O^V \\\A
oteev
*VV*$>t'
g)Fx- -&V'
jeU W
E^V
MVCe 
^$>C97pCLcia<
\>v1&"V
l\*v'
\
'(
1^eN
-c'
,0***V.V1
Hr Lkj PWMnb yIfi nmSjnSMd 
PWMnb yk 5ic
To certain people, this isnt just a list of 
symbols. Its a work of art. Its where cool 
technology starts. And eventually changes 
the world.
You see the beauty in a piece of 
optimized code. We do too. Which is why 
we created the optimum environment to 
make it happen, giving you autonomy and 
authority without layers of management.
At Microsoft, we respect talented people 
who do creative things with code. And can 
use it to build innovative products that
improve the way people work.
If that sounds like your idea of a great 
environment, see us. Youll find that we 
speak your language.
If you are pursuing a Bachelors, 
Masters, or PhD degree in Computer 
Science, Electrical Engineering, Math, 
Physics, or related discipline, we want to 
talk with you at our On-Campus interviews.
Microsoft is an Equal Opportunity 
Employer and supports workforce diversity.
Micmsoft
On-Campus Interviews
Friday, January 18,1992  Full-time and Summer Technical Positions 
See your Career Center for details. 
Resumes due to Career Center November 6,1992Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation---------------------------------------------------

yIM ynhunm . JnhmMSfM TMeekm . DA wsukFMh gOODee
Thursday, October 29Repulsion
Repulsion is a black and white film, directed by 
Roman Polanski and starring Catherine Deneuve, 
Ian Hendry, John Fraser, Patrick Wymark, Yvonne 
Furneaux, and James Villiers. First released in 
1965, Repulsion is Polanskis first English-language film.
A real psychological shocker, Repulsion depicts 
the mental deterioration of a sexually repressed 
girl, who is terrified of men, and has been left alone 
in her sisters apartment for a weekend. She suffers 
severe hallucinations that lead her to commit mur
der.
Dont watch this film alone.
At 6, 8, 10 pm.
Friday, October 30Homicidal/13 Ghosts/The Tingler
Homicidal is William Castles 1961 film that 
stars Jean Arless, Patricia Breslin, Glenn Corbett, 
Eugene Leontovitch, Alan Bunce, and Richard Rust.
Castle steals quite a bit from Psycho; the film 
tells of a young nurse who presides over a household 
consisting of a mute stroke victim and an effeminate 
young man. Its not much of a film, but it has some 
amusing ludicrous dialogue.
At 6 pm.
13 Ghosts is another of William Castles cin
ematic masterpieces. It stars Charles Herbert, 
Donald Woods, Martin Milner, Jo Morrow, Rose
mary DeCamp, Margaret Hamilton, and John Van 
Dreelen.
13 Ghosts is Castles tongue-in-cheek look at a 
nice all-American family (with children named Buck 
and Medea  yeah, right) who have inherited a 
haunted house. Hamilton cast as the sinister house
keeper evens the score between chuckles and chills.
At 8 pm.
The Tingler is the final installment in what could 
be called the William Castle filmfest. This 1959 gem 
stars Vincent Price, Judith Evelyn, Danyl Hickman, 
Philip Coolidge, and Patricia Cutts.
One of Castles more original works, The Tingler, 
has Price as a coroner who discovers that fear 
causes a creepy-crawly creature to grow on peoples 
spines. And the only way to stop the creature is to 
scream.
Watch for one of the earliest films to depict 
someone on a LSD trip.
At 10 pm.
Saturday, October 31Far and Away
Boy meets girl. Girl meets boy. Boy and girl like 
each other but wont admit it. Boy and girl do not get 
along. Boy and girl fall in love. Boy and girl end up
together.
Far and Away is a beautiful Ron Howard movie 
starring the real-life couple Tom Cruise and Nicole 
Kidman. This epic romantic drama portrays the two 
as individuals not only trying to make their way to 
America but also survive in the New World.
Tom Cruise is the son of an Irish farmer. His 
father dies when the farm is burned to the ground. 
So, he sets off to seek revenge against the wealthy 
landowner who burned the farm, only to meet Nicole 
Kidman, his daughter. Both set off for America in 
order make a new life on the rich and fertile land. In 
the meantime, both struggle to survive, mainly with 
Cruise earning money by boxing. Cruise and Kidman 
are separated by circumstance but join up again in 
the Great Land Race.
Far and Away has action and romance. Youll 
laugh and cry  so spend the buck.
At 5, 7:30, 10 pm, 12:30 am.
Sunday, November 1Wrestling Women vs. Aztec Mummies
I think that the title is self-explanatory. If youre 
really hard up for entertainment, Wrestling Women 
vs. Aztec Mummies might be worth your time and 
money. Or you could always watch TV.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, midnight.
By BARBARA REYES & TARA M. SEMAN
2fuIMhUwhsIMiuhn )nzzMi jW skrrMMIkjiM isMmM
By BARBARA REYES
Tartan Diversions Co-Editor
Combine the elements of cappuccino, exotic tea, fresh pastries and desserts, a relaxed atmosphere and ambiance, and arty music, the end result is a pseudo Beehive located on campus. The Tilted Square will be hosting Either/Orchestra on Monday at 8 pm.Carnegie Mellon is one of the many locations this jazz band decided to tour. The latest release and fourth album, The Calculus of 
Pleasure, will be the focus of Mondays performance. The album represents the bands ability to execute traditional and new jazz forms. It not only has charged arrangements but also relaxing elements in its music.
The Calculus of Pleasure includes compositions by Benny Golson, Horace Silver, Julius Hemphill, Russ Gershon, Bob Nieske, and Curtis Hasselbring.Either/Orchestra was founded by composer and saxophonist Russ Gershon in 1985. Currently, the band is composed of ten members, all of whom add a unique personality presence.Their unusually large size has become an asset to the band. Either/Orchestra includes Tom Halter and John Carlson, trum-courtesy Accurate Records, Ltd.
pets; Russell Jewell and Dan Fox, trombones; Andrew dAngelo, Charlie Kohlhase and Russ Gershon, reeds; Chris Taylor, piano and organ; John Turner, bass; and Matt Wilson, drums.Every member brings a flavor into the spectacle. Individually or as
Alice in Chains digs 
deep with Jeni
a group, Either/Orchestra has compiled an extensive amount of musical experiences and backgrounds.Members of Either/Orchestra have performed and recorded with a variety of musical artists including Cab Callo-way, Illinois Jacquet,Julius Hemphill, Sam Rivers,Lee Konitz, Cecil MacBee, Alan Dawson, Charlie Rouse, Philly Joe Jones, Pepper Adams, Joanne Brackeen, the Four Tops, Martha and the Vandellas, and more.Among the cities targeted by Either/Orchestras tour are Columbia, Schenectady, Fulton, Kansas City, Ann Arbor, Bloomington, Lawrence, Madison, and more.The band is one of the few new big-bands to perform nationwide from large cities to small towns, from clubs to colleges to concerts to festivals.Either/Orchestra will perform at Carnegie Mellons Tilted Square on Monday. Tickets are $10; $5 for undergraduate students.
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Features Editor
The cover art for Alice in Chains new album Dirt depicts a person submerged in a plain of drying, cracking mud. Personally, I cant think of any image that would suit this album as perfectly, but thats not as bad a thing as it sounds, unless gui- tar-laden, power-chord-driven, evil-sounding-bass-heavy music gives you nightmares. If it does, go look at the comics.However, if you break into a smile at the mention of Seattle band or grunge-rock or two. guitars, youll probably want go out to your favorite record store and invest in this album sometime soon, because if grunge is your thing (and it is mine), this is pretty good stuff.On the whole, the songs are strings of deliciously filthy guitar riffs that grate, rip, and sometimes singe, and theyre what really makes the record good for me. The drums and bass (by Sean Kinney and Mike Starr, respectively) are tribal, and almost pitch black in their density and depth, which provides a nice contrast to the thinnish, metallic-sounding vocals.The album is consistently good in a purely technical, instrumental sense. Most of the lyrics are pretty good as well, though they depend a lot on guitarist/lead singer Layne Staleys seductive voice to save them from becoming merely melodramatic  an example from the title track: I want to taste dirty, stinging pistol/in my mouth, on my tongue/I want you to scrape me .from the walls/and go crazy like youve made me. When Staley fails, the words just sound stupid, but fortunately hes usually right there.Individually, the songs
' y- -/y;-/: y- y-y/.  ' y ://
Air Force ROTC Units 
Filled to Capacity
NOT!
Dont believe everything you hear. The Air Force 
continues to seek outstanding students to fill future 
officer requirements. See yourself becoming a leader, 
graduating from college as an Air Force officer with fully 
developed qualities of character and managerial ability. 
Notice, too, the opportunities. Like eligibility for 
scholarship programs that can pay tuition, textbooks, 
fees... even $100 in tax-free income each academic 
month.
Visualize a crisp uniform that reflects pride in yourself and your ability to accept challenge. Get the picture? Now make a call!
268-8747 
;HT -HE-;H( tw(J2
courtesy of Accurate Records, Ltd. 
The members of Either/Orchestra.
range from okay (Dam That River, Rain When I Die, and Angry Chair) to beautiful (Sickman, Junkhead, Dirt, and Would?), but one of the beautiful songs alone is worth the price of the whole thing. Im serious here. When the guys are on, the guys are on. The good songs are so morbid and despondent that anyone who can listen to them and not be moved is obviously too cold-hearted and too calculating to feel anything. These guys are hurting something fierce, and when they express that as well as some of the other folks from their blustery hometown, theyve got me.But theres something missing from this album  abandon. I just dont feel them letting go and getting crazy here. In a few places they come close (Would? and Sickman, for instance), but theres a restraint in the music, especially in the singing, that I dont really understand. It seems to me that if Staley and fellow singer-guitarist Jerry Cantrell just went off and screamed for a while, wed all feel a little more fulfilled.But Im being overly picky here. This album is good and thick like mud, even if the singers are a little too careful to sound sufficiently evil and tormented. Also, I hope this album gets huge and sells a couple million copies, because anyone whose life is this bad deserves a few gold records.
courtesy of Sony Music Entertainment
Marvel comics continue 
tradition with fresh blood
By KENDRICK K. CHUA
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Ghost Rider, flnming skeletal motorcyclist, tho spirit, of vengeance, demon avenger of innocent blood, and one of Marvels most consistently popular comic characters, was the starting point for four new horror comic titles from Marvel, bringing old and favorite characters into new story lines and fresh art.In the standard Marvel monev-mak- ing tiadition, all of thoso titles were introduced in a six-part crossover series called Rise of 
the Midnight 
Sons involving the first issues of all four new titles and two issues of Ghost 
Rider. The story involves Ghost Rider searching the continent for Lilith, the demon mother who threatens
hordes of demon spawn. The destruction of Lilith (and saving the universe for tho Nth timo in the comic book world) sorvos as tho springboard for all four now storylines.The strongest of tho four now titles is Morbius, the Living 
Vampire. Michaol Morbius, a character who was introduced as a villain in Amazing SpiderMan #101, is a medical doctor who hungers after human blootl, due to a geneticoxporimentgone
courtesy of Marvel Comics
Morbivs the Living Vampire pops the question to destroy the t0 an unknown f_human planeof existence. Along the way, with the help of his friend John Blaze and the mysterious Doctor Strange, Ghost Rider recruits various other comic characters who must join him in order to defeat Lilith and her
awry. In this new series, Morbius is now a hero of the dark horse genre, struggling to maintain his morality by only drinking the blood of criminals and the corrupt.
Please see MARVEL, page L13
SHORT & SUITE
SHORT TERM LEASES 
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 
1 OR 2 BEDROOM 
APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From $47 per day (on a monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering machine too!), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCR, all linens, completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and concierge services available.
Toll Free MOAH3j3HuHEuKF(412) 441-4444 5405 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232

---------------------------------------------------

The University of Pittsburgh 
(School of Medicine 
Graduate Programs
present a
o2;2;QJ- wv27 
-w5z2
Learn about opportunities for: 
Graduate Studies 
Undergraduate Summer Research 
Post-degree Employment Opportunities
Departmental Tours Will Originate From: 
Scaiffe Hall Lecture Doom 3 
1:00pm - 5:00pm 
Saturday, November 7,1992
For more information contact: 
School of Medicine 
Graduate Studies Office 
(412) 648-8957
E2y v;Ho tw( G(2PyH7EUP TO 5 TIMES A WEEK!
Professional Instruction & work-out facilities FREE Enjoy all expence paid trips, on weekends, throughout N.Y. W. Va. Pa. Md & Oh.
NO SALES INVOLVED NO COST TO YOU.
GwT27NP G(2PyH7E J58
can make you a star 
Pro-styled events, with semi-pro pay 
TO YOU 
Serious Women ONLY need apply 
For appointment call 695-8255
SOCIAL DBTORH0H
ovawHEuvu :c rauastleo
UBrs>l2T22(6d19f2 DDeBi 15Py ; 85JK!
7 W, Pvw7Pw(2o 8L ;8
* (and funded by your activities fee)

---------------------------------------------------

yIM ynhunm . JnhmMSfM TMeekm . DA wsukFMh gOODg60
Innocent Blood really bites the big one
By BARBARA REYESI Tartan Diversions Co-Editor
When one combines a lame plot, bad jokes, ; an awful musical score, some strange S & M i scenes, and some loser actors, especially the ! leading vampire, the end result is this poor i excuse for a movie. I anticipated a bad movie from the beginning, and my expectation was 
i correct. I became so annoyed with Innocent Blood ; that I wanted to leave in the middle of the ; movie. Instead, I relieved my boredom by ! concocting plots where all the characters ! would be hit by a truck, really fast and really ! Soon. Ironically enough, a bus hits one of the characters bus, truck ... close enough.The movie is about a supposedly beautiful ; (I did not think so) vampire named Marie, ; played by Anne Parillaud of La Femme 
\ Nikita fame, who sucks the blood of men. ! Ah, a vampire of the 90s. She meets an ! undercover cop, Joe Gennaro, played by ! Anthony LaPaglia from Whispers In The < Dark and decides not to feast on him. Instead, she dines on a mafia member, ; leading her to the mob kingpin, Sal Macelli, ; played by Robert Loggia. She becomes en- ! tangled in a mess when she carelessly bites ! Sal but forgets to kill him. As a result, Sal becomes a vampire who feasts on his own j mob members in order for them to become ! like him, a powerful, almost immortal vam- | pire. Joe wants to put away Sal, the mob
kingpin, as well as Marie, the supposed killer of Sal. Marie and Joe begin to fall in love and end up joining forces in order to stop Sal and his gang of vampires. Of course, there is a happy ending, the bad guys are killed, and Joe overlooks the fact that Marie is a vampire because he loves her (after one screw). The scene ends with the two together checking into a hotel room. Gee, I wonder what they are going to do?
Filmmaker John Landis has set this movie in Pittsburgh. Thats one sort of possible reason to go see this flick. It was interesting to watch the vampire violence occur in places that we see every day in Pittsburgh such as Oakland, St. Anthonys Chapel, Keystone Commons, Liberty Avenue and more. But what was very amusing was the supposed Shady side that Blood recreated; it was not remotely similar to Walnut or any part of Shady side. It looked more like Squirrel Hill, maybe.Keeping the plot in mind  vampires and the mafia in Pittsburgh  I have to wonder, does that imply that there are really vampires and the mob here? I dont think so. This movie is definitely not worth your money unless someone else is paying or if you are going with great company like I did. But even great company does not mean that watching this poor excuse for a movie is worth it. All in all, it was boring, dull and stupid. The main actress,
courtesy of Warner Bros. 
Anne Parillaud sucks victims in Innocent Blood.
Parillaud, cannot act worth anything. Plus, she was hard to understand because of her foreign accent.Thumbs down big time.
8nu,nm (Mujhmi!
: Marvel comics continue strong tradition with spin-offs
COMICS from page LU.
Morbius differs from mostother vampire characters in that he has a conscience, and that he is ; constantly struggling to become ; fully human once more. The | reader can empathize with ! Morbius, because he is one of the I few characters who feels guilt I when he kills. The story also has j the most interesting plot; only j into issue four, Morbius has al\ ready fought his old enemy Spi- ! der-Man and been captured by I the nefarious Doctor Paine.Another very engaging and very  horrific title in the series is Darkhold: Pages from the Book of 
( Sins. The premise is creative; a 
1 demon in the guise of a very short 
1 human being is going around the 
1 world handing out pages of the 
 Darkhold, a book of evil spells, to ; unsuspecting people in ordinary ; places. Wherever the pages go,; gratuitous death and sadness fol- ; low,asthepagesareamagnetfor ; a mysterious ethereal being ; known as the the Other.The main character in the bookI isVictoriaMontesi,whoappeared 
\ previously in Strange Tales, ; daughterofaCatholicpriesttyes,; you read that right) who has been ! entrusted with the impossibleII task of bringing all the scattered . pages of the Darkhold together.
Although the art of Richard Case and Mark M,cKenna is less than satisfactory as far as Marvel comics go, the plotting by Chris Cooper is remarkably consistent and has moments of humor and horror in all the right places. This serieshasthemostpotential, with Mordred the Mystic and Doctor Strange as principal supporting characters and an upcoming appearance by the villain Sabretooth.
Spirits of Vengeance is a second Ghost Rider title, detailing the heroics of the demon biker and John Blaze, the human whom Ghost Rider originally possessed in the early issues of the original Ghost Rider. Although free of this demonic possession, Blaze still finds his life intertwined with Ghost Riders, as they travel the country avenging the innocent blood spilled by immoral killers.The major conflict here is between Blazes desire to get away from the occult and his obligation to help his old friend as he blindly puts himself between the innocent and the murderers of the physical and spirit worlds. Currently the book is part of a four- issue crossover with Amazing Spider-Man, where Ghost Rider fights the chaotic black alien beANOTHER OF YOUR ILLUSIONS, A K!E T .
courtesy of Marvel Comics 
Ghost Rider fights in the realm of. 
Nightmare in Ghost Rider (# 30).
ing known as Venom.The weakest of the four new titles is Nightstalkers, the story of old Marvel characters, Frank Drake, Blade, and Hannibal King, three men who once formed Borderline Investigative services, a group of vampire slayers whose union dissolved into conflict. Now that they have helped to defeat Lilith, they have a new purpose; the annihilation of anything to do with the occult on Earth.While the premise is an excellent idea, the story has its limitations. Unlike the other books, the three would-be heroes here are static and one-dimensional, with very little room for character de
velopment. Although probably true for any spin-off comic, 
Nightstalkers will probably prove to be the most short-lived.Marvels quality and writing may now and may always be in question, but one character that will always survive the tides of comic commercialism intact and unadulterated is Ghost Rider, one of the superior horror comic characters. With any luck, these four new books will be able to take advantage of this popularity and survive for many issues to come.
BATMAN from page L9
about, a foot from tho rest of his face)  in fact, the opening title sequence is one of the most dramatic, and certainly one of the best-animated sequences Ive ever seen.Another strong point is tho inclusion of most of the major characters from the Batman my thos, including such infamous villains as the Joker, the Penguin, the Riddler, and the Catwoman, along with lesser- known foes such as Two-Face, Mr. Freeze, Clayface, the Scarecrow, the Mad Hatter, the Clock King, and Poison Ivy.Other characters who have safely made the transition from comics to TV are Alfred the butler, Police Commissioner Jim Gordon, Detective Harvey Bullock, Lucius Fox, CEO of the Wayne Foundation, and Dr. Leslie Thompkins, a long-time friend of Bruce Wayne, and the only person besides Alfred and Robin who knows that Wayne is secretly the Batman.Also included, of course, is Robin. The creators of the series have seen fit to use the original Robin, Dick Grayson, but have taken tho interesting step of putting him in the costume used by the third and current comic-book Robin, Tim Drake. In tho comic world, Grayson has moved on to become thehero, Nightwing, sort of a Batman without tho capo and ears.The voices for several of these characters are provided by somo well-known actors and actrossos. The Joker is voicod by Mark Hamill, Catwoman by B-movie actress Adrienne Barbeau, Dr. Thompkins by Diana Muldaur, and the Clock King by Alan Rachins (ofL.A. Law).Other notables who have lent their talents include Ed Asnor, who appeared in one episode as
tho voice of a mob leader.The series pushes tho bounds of afternoon animation, with (1 levol of violence slightly abov(s that of, say, G.I.Joe. While </o)> may have had lots of shootinfe and gunplay, Batman: the Ani
mated Series has had at least one actual death that Ive soeh and probably one or two otherd.Also sometimes seen is the sight of blood flying from h characters mouth in the middle of a fist-fight, mid, even morfe rarely, the sight of Batmans batarangs sticking into the backs of thehands of gun-toting hoods as the Batman disarms them.
Batman: the Animated Series is a fine addition to the Batman world, as well as an above-par afternoon cartoon. Its also accessible to anyone; you dont have to have been reading the comics for the last ten years to understand it, though if you have, its much easier to appreciate the high quality of the show.In my opinion, it's the next best thing to an animated version of The Dark Knight Re
turns, which wouldbothoMocca of Batman animation.Chock it out on Fox at 5:3Q every weekday afternoon.
courtosy of DC Comics
II HAtOIHrPARK/COUEOnKAlimOM
POINT PARK COLLEGE 
THEATRE COMPANY
presenta
November 4-22 
Call
(412) 621-4445
(Visa/MC)  AlsoatTlX
A farcical comedyby Pcicr Hornier Dircctcd by Kathryn Aronson
In the Theatre Downstairs
Tickets: $7at the Playhouse Box Office
ON THE VERGE at the 222 Craft Avenue, Pjjh, PA i 5213
STUDENT half-price tickets, 1/2 hour before show -------
IM / EGHHMlilDNTS
Looking for a job? 
Searching for a challenge? 
Want to work for a leader?
INTE:
!t.
Come find out about the
mm
who we are, and what we do.
Learn about our New College Graduate and 
Summer Intern positions. Have an 
opportunity to meet CMU Alumni currently 
working for Intel.
Monday, November 2 at 5 pm DH 1212. 
Refreshments will be served. 
Well be at the BOC!!
SIGN UP NOW FORHILLEL'S LEADERSHIP RETREAT WEEKEND
Jeannette Kalson Leadership Weekend 
November 13 -15, 1992 
Jumonville Conference Center, Uniontown, PA
H-Card Holder Price: $30.00 Regular Price: $36.00 
(Includes transportation, lodging, and a lot of food!)
FUN  LEADERSHIP TRAINING  WORKSHOPS & 
DISCUSSIONS  CAMPFIRE & SINGING  
PING PONG  SHABBAT & HAVDALAH SERVICES  
RECREATIONAL TIME  BEAUTIFUL SCENERY 
Come zuitfi friends and meet nezofriends!!'
TO SIGN UP FOR THIS GREAT WEEKEND: 
CALL B'NAI BRITH HILLEL AT 621-8875 !

---------------------------------------------------

/NpFiLL/l
Admission to all DH2210 films is$l for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise.
Repulsion playB in DH 2210 on Thursday. Shows are at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
Terror reigns in DH 2210 on Friday. 
Homicidal shows at 6 pm, 13 Ghosts at 8 pm, and The Tingler at 10 pm.
Far and Away plays in DH 2210 on Saturday at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Tampopo plays Friday at 7 pm in PH 100. Sponsored by the Modem Languages Program. Admission is free.
Wrestling Women vs. Aztec Mum
mies shows in DH 2210 on Sunday. Show times are 6, 8,10, and midnight.
 1992 Columbia Pictures
Watch for Tom Cruise at his scruffy best with his wife Nicole Kidman In Far and Away, 
which plays In DH 2210 on Saturday at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Foreign language tables sponsored by the Modem Language Program are held each week of the fall semester. Mondays: Hebrew Language Table (sponsored by Hillel) 11:30 am -1 pm in Morewood Cafeteria; Bentoo Lunch o 
nihongo de (Japanese Brown Bag Lunch) at 12 pm in BH160. Tuesdays: 
Russkii Chas (Russian) 12 -1:30 pm in Morewood Cafeteria. Wednesdays: La 
Table Franaise (French) 11:30 am - 1:15 pm in Morewood Cafeteria; La 
Mesa Espaola (Spanish) 11:30 am -1 pm in Morewood Cafeteria. Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch (German) 11:30 am -12:45 pm in Morewood Cafeteria.
The Career Center Library is open Mondays and Thursdays from 5 pm to 7 pm, in addition to regular weekday office hours.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshop meetings every Monday at 7 pm at the Friends Meeting Houso. Donation of $1 accepted. For more information, please call Bill King at 276-1768.
The Legal Affairs Department, HBH 507, will have open office hours for students from 2-3 pm each Tuesday and Friday until December 15. During these times, a staff member is available to discuss legal problems such as security deposits and leases, that are related to University life. They will not provide legal assistance for personal legal matters but can make referrals to attorneys in private practice.
The Womens Center Collective holds meetings every Tuesday at 4:30 pm in the CMU Womens Center. Contact Shel Strictland at x3595 for information.
Student Senate meetings are every Tuesday in the Wherrett Room at 7 pm. All members of the campus community are welcome to attend and speak during audience participation.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, anon-denominational student study group for those seeking insights into who they are, a change of being, and a livable philosophy, holds regular meetings on Tuesdays at 7 pm at the Cathedral of Learning Room 236. For more information, call 343-1907.
The CMU Lesbian/Bisexual 
Womens Discussion Group meets Tuesdays at 7:30 pm in the CMU Womens Center. Questioning? Positively suro? Come to the discussion group for friendly talk and fun.
The Association for Life holds its biweekly meeting Tuesday at 7:30 pm in Skibo 201.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets every Tuesday at 8:30 pm and Sunday at 4 pm in Activity Room B of the CMU Gymnasium. Learn traditional Okinawan Karate. All beginners are welcome.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett Room. For more information, call x2114.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm in the first floor conference room of the Oakland Carnegie Library. The group is an open forum for writers and writers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU students and alumni. For more information, call 421-8140.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is held on Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the Israel room (337) at The Cathedral of Learning. Free. Call Rabbi Shmuel Weinstein at 683-7770 for more information.
The Libertarian Party of Pitts
burgh is sponsoring a debate between members of the Democratic, Republican, Socialist Workers, and Libertarian parties Tuesday at 7:30 pm at the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium (104 Schenley Drive). For more information, call 241-3511.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have fun while getting involved in business activities at CMU. We offer BOC and opportunities for business contacts. All majors are welcome. Questions? Call Aurora at x8310.
The Dancers Symposium will be holding their first movie night on Friday at8 pm in the Womens Center. All are invited. Check the Dancers Symposium Board by the Ballroom for details.
October Fest, a student networking conference for organizing environmental clubs, is Saturday from 9 am to 3 pm on Chathams Shadyside Campus. Sponsored by the Rachel Carson Institute at Chatham College, Giant Eagle, and the Earth Day Coalition. Call Lucy Laffitte at 365-1516 for more information.
Orientation 93 planning is underway. Counselor applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs. Contribute ideas by posting comments on assocs.orientation93. Contact Tony DeRoss at x4649 for information.
official.career-center is a bboard in its second year of operation on which you can access occupational outlook data, workshop information, new Career Library book notices, campus interview postings, and job leads for school year/off campus, summer and professional employment. All majors and class levels are encouraged to subscribe.
Bible Study at Tech House every Tuesday from 5-6 pm. For more information or direction, call x4391.
Shabbat Candlelit Dinner is held at the Chabad House on Friday evenings at sundown and on Saturdays at 2 pm. Contact Sara Weinstein at 683-7770 for more information.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday with a happy half- hour (hors doeuvres) at 6 pm, services at 6:30 pm, and dinner following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincycelebrates mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday in the GSIA main auditorium. For more information, call The Oratory at 681- 3181.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join other young adults in contemporary, casual, and uplifting services on Sundays at 11 am in the Central Christian Church located at the comer of Fifth and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For more information, call 621-6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Epis
copal) welcomes all students to join those who worship, serve, and fellowship there. They hold services on Sundays with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college class at 9:30 am, and morning worship at 11:30 am in the chapel located on the comer of Ellsworth and Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more information, call 621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Churchholds worship service Sundays at 11 am, college class at 9:45 am. Shadyside College Fellowship is on Fridays at 6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette Ediger at 682-4300.
The Department of Psychology presents Sheldon Cohen lecturing on How Can Our Cognitions and Emotions Influence Our Physical Well-Being: Three Approaches to Studying Psychoneuro- endocrinimmunology on Tuesday at noon in BH 355. The department also welcomes Herman Kolk from Nijmegen University, who will speak on An Economy Theory of Agrammatic Language Production. Both speakers are part of the CMU Colloquium Series.
The Silver Eye Center for Photog
raphy presents Beryl Graham speaking on Post Industrial Revolutions on Tuesday at 7:30 pm. Admission is $4. Call Jody Guy at 431-1810.
The East End Food Co-op presents Centering with Past Life Recall with Mary Ann van Sickle and D. F. Astol Wednesday from 7 to 9 pm. Free. Call 242-3598 for information.
AB Lectures presents Stan Cloud, Editor of the Washington D.C. Bureau of Time Magazine, in the Ballroom at 7:30 pm on Wednesday. He will speak on Piercing the Veil of Media Hype in the 92 Presidential Election. Call Matt Adler at x8373 for information.
The Playhouse Theatre Companypresents Dames at Sea starting Tuesday and running through November
15. Call 621-4445 for information.
Apple Hill Playhouse presents Im 
Sorry, the Bridge Is Out, Youll Have to 
Spend the Night. Performances Friday through Sunday at 8 pm. Call 468-5050 for information and reservations.
The Flying Pig Theatre presents 
Reality Optional Saturday at 8 pm. Tickets are $5 at the door, $1 discount for costume. Call 731-5112 forinforma- tion and to make reservations.
New Pittsburgh Publications invites the public to come view its 10th Anniversary Exhibit and vote for its favorite photographs through November 7.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts displays Crossing Thresholds by Tazim Jaffer through November 8 in the Associated Artists of Pittsburgh Gallery;. 
Fiberarts 92 by the Fiberarts Guild of; Pittsburgh through November 8 in the! Main Galleries; watercolors by Sylvia Fontozzi through November 8 in The: Center Shop. For more information, call 361-4235.
The CMU Music Department presents the Harlem Spiritual ensemble Tuesday at 8 pm in the Mellon Institute Auditorium.
Jazz at Emmanuel features Pittsburgh musicians and vocalist at Emmanual Church, 957 W. North Ave. in the Northside starting at 5 pm on Sunday. Free. Call 231-0454.
The Pittsburgh Camerata presents 
Five Centuries of British Choral Music Sunday at 7:30 pm in Synod Hall. Cost is $9, $6 for students. For information, call 422-8445.
The Pittsburgh Oratorio Societypresents The Creation by Franz Joseph Haydn Sunday at 8 pm at the Calvary Episcopal Church. Call 661-7020.
Compline Prayer at the End of theDay is sung every Sunday nightat9:30 pm at the Heinz Chapel. Call 682-6886.
Come out and support Carnegie Mellons 
sports teams.
The volleyball team hosts Chatham College Tuesday at 6 pm. The team participates in the UAA Championships at the University of Chicago Thursday through Saturday.
The cross country teams compete in the Wheeling Jesuit College Invitational Friday. Women begin racing at11 am, men at 11:45 am.
The football team hosts Grove City College Saturday at 1:30 pm.
The hockey team hosts the Community College of Allegheny County at Golden Mile at 4 pm Saturday. It plays University of Pittsburgh, also at Golden Mile, Sunday at 4 pm.
The womens soccer team hosts Washington University Saturday at 6 pm.
The mens soccer team hosts Washington University Saturday at 8 pm.
The Fencing Team Invitational 
Tournament is Sunday at 1 pm in Thistle Hall at the gymnasium. Allegheny College, Kent State University, PennState University, and University of Buffalo will be attending. Free. Call Rand Bruno at x8672 for information.
The Rite of Christian Initiation of 
Adults is held on Mondays at 7:30 pm at The Oratory, 4040 Bigelow Blvd. Anyone wishing to inquire into the Roman Catholic faith is welcome to attend. For more information, contact Bernadette Young at 681-3181.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House invite all students to a
Elle I Love You Graham
David L. Say youll share with me one love, one lifetime Lead me, save me, from my solitude Say you want me with you, here beside you Anywhere you go let me go too Happy 3rd AnniversaryI love you Pam
Stupidity breeds contempt.
Lets Do the TIME WARP again... NOT!!!!!!!!!!!!!
STFTT
So tell me, Amv on a scale of1 to 10, how many Chrises have you lusted after in the past five years?
So tell me, Matt______, who do youthink is most likely to wear bright green socks on their hands instead of mittens?
SIHFIOASIBYBYHroiVPFARCIAEffiSY. 
Stop Complaining, 
Fizzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzled.
They say that there are three kinds of 
lies:
Lies, Damn Lies, and Statistics.
 THEY
Draft Dodger and Ozone Man in 92
In my mind, the finger always 
comes first.
 polite after dinner conversation 
at Max & Ermas
Youd like Bob. Your cheeks hurt 
when hes done.
 Chris, absolutely making no ref
erence to any Bob we know.
Bill married  what a concept.
So which Muppet does your favorite 
Student Senator resemble?
I dont give a shit about womens
issues.
 someone who should know better 
Amazing what people will say when 
they think no one is listening, huh?
So tell me, Jane old lady swallow?
, wh/d the Im a damn subversive and proud of
it.
Heres a hint: I HATE MY JOB!Id do Rick, just to loosen him up." 
 C, ask about PHI
You know I wouldnt touch your 
body without your permission.
Dam!
What is a stronger death penalty?
Its great to be a senior, especially 
when you only have to take 2 classes 
next semester.
Why do women always go to the 
bathroom in groups?
Wouldnt you like to know?
