THE TARTAN
>lume 86, Issue 4
,
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania23 September 1991
inside
Classifieds................
Comics......................
Diversions................
Features...................
Sports.......................
University Calendar 
Vox Populi...............
Columnist contemplates realities 
of resum writing.
. See page 7.
The CMU football team wins its 
first road game of the season.
See page 11.
Student health gains new focus as 
improvements are made in 
programs.
See page LI.
Herb Simon speaks out on creating 
environmental policies.
See page L2.
CMU Drama opens up its 1991-92 
season Thursday with The Hostage 
by Brendan Behan.
See page L9.
UmmKen Regan/1991 Orion Pictures 
>lumel8 6e,Isl4 Cla reasn ge4uni 4uCi 
sl The Silence of the Lambs, 4meMslo 
ums4 gisaC8 sl U6 vvtyP
Payroll blunder overpays workers
By MIKE KUNSMANN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Some summer jobs may pay better 
than others and some may give out 
nice juicy bonuses, but rarely does a 
paycheck get doubled. However, this 
was the case for about 1000 of the 
5000 summer employees at CMU 
when they received their paychecks 
on August 30.
Accordingto Payroll Supervisor Jim
No one thought this would happen, [but] 
now we know what to watch for. We're fairly 
sure it won't happen again.
__________ Jim Boshears, payroll supervisor
Boshears, employees were paid cor
rectly on August 16, but that day the 
hardware system crashed due to a system error, wiping out the database and 
tables that stored all the salary infor
mation. Boshears said that the tables
were restored and the last back-up 
tape was initializeded within one week. 
On August 28, Boshears discovered 
that some employees had been'over
paid by an amount equal to their Au
gust 16 paychecks. He then realized 
that all employees were going to get 
their August 16 and August 30 pay on 
the August 30 payday.
I found out the hours [of the August 
16 payday] had been reloaded. I checked 
bhnC4n 4nn b>23Spp1 ,Con 9
Study 
links colds 
to stress
By LESLIE ZUBATY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
A recent study links stress to the 
common cold, says CMU psychologist 
Sheldon Cohen. The study reveals that 
people experiencing high stress levels 
are twice as likely to develop colds as 
those with lower stress levels. What 
we have is basically a link between 
stress and susceptibility, he says.
The study, conducted at the Medical 
Research Councils Common Cold Unit 
in Salisbury, United Kingdom, involved 
394 healthy volunteers. These volun
teers were asked to carefully complete 
questionnaires regarding psychologi
cal stress. The subjects were then de
liberately exposed to one of five viruses 
or a harmless salt solution which served 
as the control. Researchers then moni
tored the subjects development of cold 
symptoms and infection.
Of the least stressed subjects, 74 per
cent were infected and 27 percent expe
rienced cold symptoms. For the heavily 
stressed subjects, these rates jumped 
to 90 percent for infection and 47 per
cent for cold symptoms.
The difference between Cohens study 
and similar studies lies in Cohens 
means of collecting data. In this study, 
important demographic and biological 
factors were accounted for. Also sup
porting this study were the sensitivity 
of the stress measurement test, the 
methodology used to control infection, 
and the relatively large number of 
people in the study.
Cohen said that there still may be 
other factors that could have induced 
infection that the study did not include. 
Therefore, a definite causal relation
ship between stress and colds cannot 
yet be drawn. He views attempting to 
discover why stress increases suscepti
bility as the next step.
Stats Dept turns 25
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Acting News Editor
The Statistics Department celebrates 
25 years as a department this week
end. Many events have been planned in 
honor of the department and its founder, 
the late Morris H. DeGroot, including 
lectures, conferences, and receptions.
The Statistics Department began in 
1966 as an offshoot of GSIA. Then GSIADean Richard Cyert, along with 
DeGroot, was a primary force in found
ing the department, which has grown 
from a small department with only six 
faculty members to a strong group of 15 
faculty and 25-30 graduate students. 
Undergraduate programs are offered 
as well, along with joint programs 
through the MathDepartment. Aecordingto Department Head John Lehoczky, 
most CMU undergraduate students 
take at least one statistics course be
fore graduation.
The thrust of the program is not only 
to deal with the theoretical aspects of
statistics, but also with its applica
tions, says Lehoczky. This application 
of knowledge leads to a huge amount 
of collaboration between the departbhnC4n 4nn KR>R/KR/K1 ,Con 9
"The thrust of the 
program at CMU is 
not only to deal with 
the theoretical as
pects of statistics, 
but also with its ap
plications.
-John Lehoczky, 
Statistics 
Department head
Welcome to Greek life...
Oieumni4 Cla ,hnaon4 ec TC,,C UnhuC 3me oCumnina gisaC8 lsomu usE DnhnAiCun Msum 
C4 ciCunilsusn4 MnhDeYna umnsi lnM ,hnaon DhC44n4 el bhnaon BsomuP >hh tH
P Rmn VNCa iClo Msum Dmn4i4
Fires hit CFA, Hamerschlag
"f think in both cases, the people involved 
realized the seriousness of the situations. 
The more people are aware of [fire safety], 
the better off were going to be. 
 Bob Anderegg, 
Fire and Safety Coordinator
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
With the occurrence of two fires 
within the past two weeks, Campus 
police and Fire and Safety Coordina
tor Bob Anderegg are beginning to ' 
worry about fire safety awareness on 
campus. Last Wednesdays College of 
Fine Arts fire and the previous 
Wednesdays Hamerschlag House fire 
have caused much concern.
This stresses the fact that we have 
to be careful what we use and how we 
use it, said Anderegg after the CFA 
fire. The fire was caused by smolder
ing cigarette ashes in Christopher 
Connells first floor music department 
office. Fortunately, the ashes were 
thrown into a metal garbage can 
which contained the fire, so the blaze 
was not serious.
Anderegg arrived at the CFA build
ing with Lieutenant Mary Suber and 
Officer Luke Lesic. Luckily, the win
dow was open, so we located the fire by 
the smoke pouring out of the 
window,saidAnderegg. They activated 
the fire alarm and quickly doused the 
fire in a nearby restroom sink. We 
were lucky, said Anderegg. There was 
carpeting and paper in the office that 
would have been a problem had the fire 
spread.
Voice major Colleen Cosgrove was in 
voice performance class in the building 
when the fire occurred. We heard the
alarm and sent someone to check and 
she returned and said that there were 
firetrucks outside, Cosgrove said. The 
fire departmentmovedin quickly and 
and set up fans to break up the 
smoke. After a check of the building, 
the students were allowed back in
side thebuildingwithin 25 minutes of 
the initial alarm. Everyone evacu
ated the building quickly and safely, 
said Suber. We didnt have to pull 
bhnC4n 4nn g/3L1 ,Con G
Directory pools resources
By ERIN GRUNZKE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The 1992 Directory of Research Op
portunities offers faculty, staff, gradu
ate, and undergraduate students easy 
access to a multitude of means for find
ing research-oriented information. As 
Undergraduate Research Initiative Co
ordinator Jessie Ramey said, It gives 
both students and staff the opportunity 
to coordinate research projects and bet
ter communicate.
Winner of last years Outstanding 
Publication Award, the Directory of 
Research Opportunities is an updated 
and nationally known research access 
tool. Not only does the directory con
tain the names of department heads, 
college contacts, and special research 
centers affiliated with each department, 
but it also lists CMU faculty members
and their respective fields of expertise.
Course descriptions of classes pro
moting independent study, group, or 
individual projects are also given. An
other feature of the directory is the list 
of faculty members who have expressed 
a desire to work with undergraduates 
on special research projects in the Un
dergraduate Research and Special 
Projects listing.
There are several different ways to 
locate the Directory. It is included in 
an on-line server in the Hunt Library 
zone and can be accessed from any 
Macintosh on the campus network.
Hard copies of the Directory of Re
search Opportunities are also avail
able at the Skibo Information Desk, the 
Undergraduate Research Initiative Of
fice, both Hunt and E&S Libraries, and 
each academic department and Deans 
office.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 September 1991
THIS JUST IN 
U.S. bolsters military presence in Iraq
WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 (DJ)  
White House officials say the Pentagon 
may release more details early this 
week on U.S. plans to use military 
units, in coordination with allies, to 
assist U.N. inspectors in Iraq.
The officials confirmed that plans 
have been drawn up to assist U.N. 
inspectors in Iraq, and affirmed a re
port that some U.S. units will be sent to 
that nation. Pentagon spokesman Pete 
Williams is expected to reveal more 
details of U.S. plans to reporters later 
today, according to the White House 
officials.
There are some units that will defi
nitely go in,... some within the next day 
or so, said a senior administration 
official traveling with President Bush 
aboard Air Force One.
There are certain precautionary
moves being made in connection with 
the altercation with Iraq about the use 
of U.N. helicopters and thats whats 
going on, said the official, who spoke 
only on condition of anonymity.
The gist of the remarks was con
firmed independently by other officials 
at the White House.
Some U.S. allies from the coalition 
that defeated Iraq in the Persian Gulf 
War are participating in the effort as 
well, the official said.
There will be some units moved to 
Saudi Arabia, the official said.
NBC reported that the U.S. will send 
aircraft to escort U.N. helicopters to 
investigate dozens of sites at which 
Iraq is thought to be manufacturing 
biological and nuclear weapons. The 
U.S. will also send Patriot missiles to 
defend Saudi Arabia, the network said.
U.S. allies are also expected to par
ticipate in some fashion in the exercise, 
and German Chancellor Helmut Kohl 
and U.K. Prime Minister John Major 
have already stated their broad sup
port for such a move.
Kohl visited the White House on 
Monday in part to discuss Iraqs re
newed intransigence toward U.N. in
spection teams and what can be done 
about it. At the time, Kohl called for 
very decisive and very determined 
action by the allies to ensure that Iraq 
stays within U.N. cease-fire guidelines.
I think that one should try to exploit 
all the possibilities open to us within 
the framework of the United Nations 
Security Council, said Kohl at a press 
conference following his White House 
meeting with Bush.
It is essential that Saddam Hussein
comply with the U.N. resolutions that 
have been passed, said Bush. And he 
is now, once again, going against those 
resolutions.
The plans for action come airjid nu
merous reports that Iraq has tried to 
foil U.N. plans to inspect and ultimately 
eliminate Iraqs mass destruction arse
nal.
U.N. inspection teams reported evi
dence that Iraq had attempted to move 
uranium enrichment equipment needed 
for atom bomb production out of view of 
the inspection teams.
There have also been various media 
reports of other moves by Iraq to evade 
tough U.N. prohibitions on missiles. 
For example, Iraq is thought to be hid
ing some of its Scud missiles and even 
to be trying to weld back together some 
missiles that it had earlier destroyed.
Iraq has been thwarting a U.N. de
mand to fly helicopters over Iraq to 
search for weapons to comply with the 
April cease-fire agreement which re
quires that Iraq turn over its weapons 
of mass destruction.
Baghdad had earlier insisted that 
only Iraqi helicopters could be used to 
fly the U.N. inspectors around to seek 
out missiles and facilities for produc
tion of atomic and biological weapons.
Iraq then softened its stance by al
lowing some foreign helicopters to be 
used, but at the same time it imposed 
other unacceptable restrictions on U.N. 
flights.
Now, the western allies, working 
through the U.N., are ready to back the 
inspection flights with military force if 
Iraq doesnt permit unfettered inspec
tion flights.
Iraq accuses U.S. of escalating conflict in mideast
NICOSIA, Cyprus, Sept. 19 (AP)  Iraq ac
cused the United States today of using the issue of 
U.N. helicopter flights by weapons inspectors to 
justify renewed military attacks, but it stopped 
short of refusing to comply with U.N. truce terms.
This controversy is a fabrication because Iraq 
had previously accepted the use by the U.N. in
spection team of helicopters, if this did not threaten 
Iraqs and the teams security, the governmentrun Al-Jumhouriya newspaper said.
The Iraqi Government Daily, in an editorial 
carried by the Iraqi News Agency and monitored 
in Nicosia, accused Washington of spreading 
false information ... to justify its resumption of 
aggression against Iraq.
Al-Jumhouriya said the matter of the helicop
ters was still being negotiated between the U.N. 
Security Council and Iraqi representatives at the 
United Nations.
Under terms of the allied-imposed truce after 
Iraq was driven from Kuwait in February, U.N. 
observers were to oversee the dismantling of longrange missiles and any chemical, nuclear, or bio
logical weapons. Baghdadhas obstructed searches 
for hidden materials.
Some inspectors have said that they would be 
better able to conduct surprise inspections of 
facilities if they used U.N. helicopters. Iraq at first 
insisted that only Iraqi helicopters be used, but 
then said Monday that the U.N. helicopters could 
be used only under certain conditions.
President Bush said yesterday that he had
readied plans to send helicopter gunships to es
cort U.N. inspectors and to provide airplanes as 
needed for additional cover, saying he was plenty 
fed up with Iraqs actions.
But Bush and other U.S. officials sought to play 
down a sense of pending resumption of armed 
conflict with Iraq.
Bush said, [Saddam] knows better than to take 
on the United States of America.
The Iraqi newspaper, apparently trying to ex
plain Baghdads reluctance at allowing inspec
tions, said monitor teams could visit areas still 
planted with mines and explosives, some of which 
were dropped by allied planes during the Persian 
Gulf War.
The spread of explosive devices could be dan
gerous for the inspection team if its members 
visited the area alone, the editorial said.
The editorial said Iraq wanted to make its 
position clear so that any incident that endan
gered the U.N. inspectors would not be used as a 
pretext to accuse Iraq with new false charges. 
In a related development, the Security Council 
was expected today to allow Iraq to open its oil 
pipeline to Turkey and make its first oil sales 
since its invasion of Kuwait.
Iraq has not said whether it will take part in the 
program, under which it would have no control 
over the sale of the oil or receipt of the proceeds. 
The United Nations will use up to 30 percent of 
the money to compensate victims of the Persian 
Gulf War.
Writer's 17-year exile ends
MOSCOW, Sept. 17 (AP)  The chief Soviet prosecutor 
officially closed the 1974 treason case against Alexander 
Solzhenitsyn, paving the way for the exiled writers return to 
his homeland.
Prosecutor Nikolai Trubin found no proof whatsoever testi
fying to any crime committed by Alexander Solzhenitsyn, the 
Tass news agency said in a brief dispatch.
The decision could bring the Nobel Prize-winning author 
back to his homeland, 17 years after he was expelled. 
Solzhenitsyn was offered his Soviet citizenship back in 1990, 
but the world-famous dissident said he would not return until 
the charge of treason was revoked.
Trubin declared that the 1974 decision by the Supreme Soviet 
legislature to expel Solzhenitsyn now baseless.
The case is closed because of the absence of any actions by 
Alexander Solzhenitsyn with criminal intent, Tass said. It 
added that Trubin has informed Solzhenitsyn, who now lives in 
Vermont, of his decision.
Solzhenitsyn is best known for his works One Day in the Life 
of Ivan Denisovich, and The Gulag Archipelago, chronicling 
Stalinist repression.
,Payro la PaPbPuo ndevrp spPbr Payrp wayproo
WASHINGTON Sept. 20 (DJ)
 Sen. Max Baucus, (D-Mont.), 
and Sen. Bob Packwood, diOre.), have written a letter to 
President Bush co-signed by 66 
Senators urging him to take 
quick action to respond to 
Canadas recent decision to ter
minate the 1986 U.S.-Canada 
Softwood Lumber memorandum 
of understanding (MOU). -
Under the MOU, Canada im
posed a 15 percent export tax on 
softwood lumber exports to the 
U.S., in exchange for the with
drawal of a successful U.S. 
countervailing duty case against 
subsidized Canadian lumber.
The tax was supposed to be 
lifted when Canada eliminated 
all of its lumber subsidies, which 
still exist in some provinces.
Some Canadian officials have 
claimed that softwood lumber is 
no longer subsidized.
The Senators urged Bush to 
take some action, possibly in
cluding imposition of a 
countervailing duty or initiat
ing some action against Canada 
under Section 301 of the Trade 
Act. A 301 action would also 
allow the U.S. to impose duties.
If no action is taken, the Sena
tors said they were ready to try 
to find a legislative remedy to 
the situation.
At a press conference held to 
discuss the letter, Baucus and 
Packwood also said the issue 
threatens the broader issue of 
the U.S.-Canada free trade 
agreement (FTA). Baucus stated 
that if the MOU on softwood
trade hadnt been signed, then 
the U.S.-Canada FTA would 
never have been ratified in the 
first place. The Canadian move 
to revoke the MOU raises the 
question of whether Canada was 
in good faith in the FTA.
This letter sends a strong sig
nal to the Canadians and to the 
administration that the Con
gress wont sit idly by while 
Canada attempts to subsidize 
U.S. lumber mills out of busi
ness, Baucus said.
U.S. Trade Representative 
Carla Hills said yesterday that 
the U.S. will respond to the 
Canadian move, but said that 
options were still under study. 
She declined to say what the 
options were.
Packwood stressed that the
Senators want to find a solution 
to the softwood trade problem 
but said that a failure of Canada 
to remedy the situation could 
lead Congress to re-examine the 
FTA later.
In an aside, Packwood also 
mentioned that he had asked 
President Bush, while they were 
together on Air Force One flying 
to a campaign rally in Oregon, 
not to make any personal com
mitments to Canadian Prime 
Minister Brian Mulroney if 
Mulroney were to call the White 
House on the issue.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc. 
Layout by 
Matt Adler
1990 9{.L. mS'T -1)1 VIS IC&l CHiWvPICft
PITTS> BU RG HPI RATES
vs.
N EWYORKMETS
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1ST 
THREE RIVERS STADIUM
RESERVED SEATS ONLY $3.00
LIMIT TWO TICKETS PER STUDENT I.D.
TICKETS ON SALE STARTING SEPTEMBER 16TH AT THE 
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
SPONSERED BY THE SPECIAL EVENTS COMMITTEE ON THE ACTIVITIES BOARD 
FUNDED BY YOUR STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 September 19913
Payroll error inconveniences employees
b>23Spp1 cieY ,Con t
the other employees [paychecks] and 
noticed they were receiving twice as 
much as well.
He said that the Payroll Office 
may still have been able to stop the 
overpayment by the time they dis
covered the error, but the affected 
employees might not have gotten 
paid that week.
Better overpay them than not pay 
them at all, said Boshears. He said 
that since August 30 was a holiday 
weekend he did not want the em
ployees to write checks that would 
subsequently bounce. We did not 
want to upset faculty and students 
over the holiday weekend.
Soon after he discovered the over
payment, Boshears called a meeting 
and discussed possible solutions to the 
problem. A memo was sent out to all 
those who were affected by the error, 
giving them the option to either give 
the money back by a set deadline or to 
have it come out of the next paycheck. 
Most people opted for the latter.
Its a real inconvenience. I think 
they handled the whole thing 
unprofessionally, said Michael 
Colaianne, an H&SS junior, one of the 
many students who was affected by the 
systems crash.
Another major problem arose with 
those employees who worked full time 
during the summer and are now part
time, and with those who no longer 
work at CMU. This problem is still 
unresolved since workers who are 
gone may not pay back the money.
It has put a lot of strain on this 
office, said Boshears. Money is a 
sensitive subject. We hope we can 
get it all back.
According to Boshears, a new pro
cedure of checking the payroll tables 
is being instituted.
No one thought this would hap
pen, [but] nowwe know what to watch 
for, said Boshears. In the 11 years of 
his supervision, nothing like this 
has happened before.
Were fairly sure it wont happen 
again.
Stats celebrates 25th
KR>R/KR/K1 cieY ,Con t
ment faculty and other researchers in 
many other departments at CMU. 
Statistics faculty interact with many 
different departments, from the social 
sciences concerning the census, to 
Math and GSIA on mathematical fi
nance projects.
The CMU Statistics Department is 
especially known for its work in the 
following areas: Bayesian statistics 
said Lehoczky, We are the leading 
center in the world for the study of 
Bayesian statistics, statistical com
puting  We have the finest comput
ing facilities of any stat department in 
the world, biostatistics, and indus
trial statistics. Many of these studies 
involve collaboration, like the Na
tional Institute of Mental Health proJ gram in which CMU works on psychi
THE TARTAN
is looking for an individual with good administrative 
ability and writing skills to be Features Editor for this 
award-winning team. 
Features Editor is a paid position that requires a 
committment through December. 
Interested students should contact Beth Moses at 
The Tartan, x2111, Skibo room 50.
atric statistics with the Pitt Psychiatry 
Department.
The events of this weekend are sand
wiched between two major Pittsburgh 
statistical conferences. Th first con
ference, co-hosted by Pitt and CMU, 
concerns time-series analysis. On Sat
urday, there will be a reception and 
open house for the department in its 
Baker Hall offices, followed by a series 
of speakers and the first annual Morris
H. DeGroot Lecture which will be pre
sented by Adrian F. M. Smith, a faculty 
member at Londons Imperial College. 
There will be another CMU- sponsored 
conference next week concerning case 
studies in Bayesian statistics, science, 
and technology. The three events com
bined are expected to bring a major 
part of the statistical community to 
Pittsburgh, said Lehoczky.
Corrections...
Last week's article Thistle year
book undergoes investigation, in
correctly identified the people who 
appointed Goldsmith. He was ap
pointed by Lois Cox and Carlos 
Franco.
In last week's women's tennis ar
ticle, the score of the contest was 
incorrectly reported. The Tartans 
won 9-0. Also in that article, Silvina 
Candina's name was misspelled.
Clarification...
The Jewish Students' Association 
is not a Greek organization. It is a 
joint project of Alpha Epsilon Pi 
and B'nai B'rith Hillel and is open 
to all members of the campus com
munity.
The Tartan corrects all errors of 
fact. If you know of an error, please 
contact Beth Moses at x2111, or 
write her care of The Tartan.
1. Its easy to use.
Bring home an Apple* Macintosh1' com
puter K jclav. and use it to ci implete assign
ments by tonighteven if you've never 
used a c< imputer .before.
2. You dont have to speak computerese.
Insiemi iif cnpic .\IS-IX)S commands such em COPY C ViOKDPKfXMmhTJXx:A:\VOKK. Maciniteli uses familiar imnls. such / Ctjty and Print. andpictures, such as file foldersfi,rstonn}>)wrdi>cume)ils and a trash can for files ym itimi tu thmfuttay.
3. You dont have to be a computer science major to set one up.
Just plug everything together, Hip the on' 
switch, and you're ready to roll.
4. Its a breeze to copy information and paste it into another document.
To copy, this chan, simply use the mouse tu choose the Copy command.
To place the chart in another document, just choose the Paste command.
12 reasons
why youll love
Macintosh
5. All Macintosh programs work in the same way.
Learn to use one Macintosh program, and 
youve learned the basics of using them all. 
For example; the commands you use, such 
as Open, Close, Copy, Paste, Save, Cut, 
Print, and Undo, are found in the same 
placeevery time.
6. It can grow with you.
This week youre majoring in philosophy, 
next week it's nuclear physics. After all, no 
one kii<)ws exactly what the future will 
bring. Thais: why millions of students have 
found that investing in a Macintosh is a 
smart move. Because Macintosh can imme
diately help you do whatever you dobetter. And if, come tomorrow; you find 
that you want to do something different, no 
problem. It's easy to upgrade your Macin
tosh to help you rise to the challenge.
7. Its great for college and beyond.
Doing your work faster, better, and more 
creatively Ls also a plus in the working 
worldand 
that's precisely 
why Macintosh 
computis are used in 
74 percent of fortune 
1000 companies'
lUwlim a Miiwyomthxial Oxnputcr bttd&n'c Wnuiv ',wl
? ? ? ? ? ?
8. Its got connections.
To connect a printer, a modem, an external 
hard disk, or just about any other peripher
al to a Macintosh, simply plug it in. That's all 
there Ls to it.
9. It lets you work 
with others.
Every Macintosh. equipped with an 
Apple SuperDrive" a unique floppy disk 
drive that can use not only Macintosh disks, 
but also MS-DOS and OSil disks created on 
IBM and IBM-compatible computes. With 
SoftPC from Insignia Solutions, you can 
even run MS-DOS applications on your 
Macintosh.
10. Its so easy to network.
Just connect the LocalTalk cable from one 
Macintosh to another Macintosh. It takes 
just a few minutes, and you don't have to 
buy any additional hardware or software.
11. You can connect to your school's mainframe or minicomputer.
With Macintosh, 
you can send in 
assignments, 
gain access to 
software you 
need for a class, 
and receive 
lecture notes, 
class schedules, 
and other 
informationright from your 
own room.
12. Its more affordable than ever
Macintosh prices 
have never been 
lowerespecially 
with the student 
pricing available 
from your 
authorized 
Apple campus 
reseller.
You may 
even qualify 
for financing, 
which makes 
Macintosh even 
more affordable.
These reasons all add up to 
the power of Macintosh. The
power to be your best
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
 1W1 Apple Computer. Ini Apple, the Apple ligo. iVajiTuIk. Mai mi<h. ami ?Tlie ponerlo Ik- jiii'tr Ik-m' are rejMerwj tnulcnurks of Appi l.omputer. Im 
Supertate i-a trademark of Apple Computer. Im HIM ami ( >S 1 are rjy'itcil trademark:, of Imernammal llii'ine" Mai lunes Corixiraiion MSIM is arenerei) ir.ulenuirk.ifMiaoM.fi (.or|xnuiu)n

---------------------------------------------------

FIND YOUR NAME
anthonyelizabethimmanueljordanlauriemanfairudolphsreeramtomokothomaschristopherca
rsongeetanjalijeffreykarimmarcelpetersalmanstylianostriciajosephandrewdavidheatherjenn
iferkartikamakikomichaelrichardsangwoosungwaisungklausaelaningejamescyrusarianchri
stinebethterishaunajeffperbrianjohnkentricharddinatimothyaarondanielbiancaandrewwillia
melizabethamyfarrontamiaraemanuelalauramarkgeorgejenniferkshantipaularthurrobertnanc
yjanetmatthewsanjayrossalexeialokcushingsusanjanajennijewellyaryvictorcynthiagregbretj
uliusalicianathanwendystephenlisajacksonatulivannataliecarlscottjackyoungnarayanmingd
onaldkevinlawrencesafiakellysamarajonathanyirendebbievaleriebhupeshannejordykeithcar
enmohankennethraulhansharoldsallyrandyneiltalcherylericmiltoncyrilkelliulyssesrussellka
yeeadamvanessaorrentaesoktoddjihoondarrentothuerikkinghanlukeluisajohndalegregorym
arcgillianlihangjessicajohnnywinniemelissasilvinakihokerryhimanshuedwardlauretteellama
liknormanerinlouisnicholasvijoyolympiaalisonkelleyjulieninarodneymartinkurtalexanderro
chelleguyfrederickrahulsergejasonjonkarajoshuaamylesliejoshcraigkrisstylerjudithamanda
dillonregisrandalltedthomaspatrickphillipjacquelynerikaharithmichelerogerjeandeanallisonc
hristianmarieganamarioclarekathleenkishorkristentracyrebeccabrentmarianaazeetachadcary
nrenaeconnienicoleandreafrankbarbaramaggieannabrettdouglasfredjoonwonlucastamalane
ugenehenryjustinealissakathrynjeremysimarciamathieupomonatanyaterrymegpaulazafrirbi
dishakaibridgetclintonpenelopestevendonnaronaldlornanatashacatherineclairestuartalexang
elaconradmamathaannacarolpravinrobertaarunaluisaelenibretkurtmargaretmanuelrickglenn
noradominicktamaradinorohitgreggbryancoleenedwinjoeljillanniesherrisuzannecoreymaur
eenstefancharlesclintbenjaminbrockkhristinakimberlyjuliannrenelynnausheenpavansamuel
susananancikerrilorrainekwanghyonsuhruddeniseshelleyrajilbrodydebrasungkarinlucygre
tawonyoungpaigemeredithbradleyarundhatiedenharrisongrovertroyallengarfieldadelenoah
cindycrystalquancassandravickievelynpraveenkunnualapagewaseemcolinbyungdaveglyni
smarcellashawnfleurkarlcathleensarahmollycolleenbrittonariekristinalenabertarjunjacobern
estlaurensateriashukratgrayjocelynjeromewalteramandayujinmadelinebernardbradfordalla
nlanedarrenrajeshevandannysararachelhirokazufitzrussellzacharyarielledylankavonleonard
vivekstanleyharrismelizachrystalseanedwinisaolanceelenaravikaychadleymarcuskericather
inealycyajodicarolyningridjanejongjoannsumeermaliniloisemilytrudicamillelaraferrellkristi
nlindanjemafranciskwangheewendichristyfrankelbertnoelanichitaiglenjosungkiranhyunkirk
If it takes more than 5 minutes to 
find your name, you might as well 
just get your picture taken; after 
all, a picture is worth a 
thousand words.
Senior Pictures lor The Thistle Yearbook 
Basic sitting is free!
September 30th thru October 11th 
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday: 10am-5pnt
Wednesday: 12pm-8pm 
Sign up now outside Skibo 46 
Order your yearbook at your sitting and receive 10% of!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 September 19915
Fires strike CFA and 
Hamerschlag House
g/3L1 cieY ,Con t
anybody out.
Andereggnoted that Connell was 
in no violation of the fire code while 
smoking in his office. Connell, how
ever, in an independent memo to 
his department, stated that he 
would no longer smoke in the build
ing.
Last weeks Hamerschlag House 
firewasalsocausedby negligence, 
this time in a student dormitory 
room. The residents lit a votive 
candle before going to sleep and 
set it on the modular desk directly 
below a bed. The students blan
ket, hanging off of the bed, came in 
contact with the flame and caught
on fire. A recently installed batteryoperated smoke detector in the room 
went off and woke both of the occu
pants. The residents activated the 
building alarm and used a nearby 
fire extinguisher to put the fire out 
before it could spread and cause more 
damage. Security and the fire de
partment soon arrived, removed the 
blanket, and allowed students to re
turn into the building. The residents 
had no comment regarding the inci
dent.
I think in both cases, the people 
involved realized the seriousness of 
the situations, said Anderegg. The 
more people are aware of [fire safety], 
the better off were going to be.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Pugwash plans 
program on 
Eastern Europe
Carnegie Mellon Student Pugwash 
will present An Eastern Perspective: 
A Report on a Students Experiences in 
Eastern Europe, on Wednesday, Sep
tember 25 at 5 pm in Porter Hall 125C.
The presentation will be given by 
Jim Vierengel, a CMU student and 
Pugwash member, who attended a 
Pugwash conference in Bulgaria and 
traveled through Eastern Europe this 
summer. His presentation will include 
slides and an informal question-andanswer discussion.
CMU Pugwash is an educational or
ganization for undergraduate students,
graduate students, and faculty who are 
interested in discussing science and 
technology and their environmental 
implications.
CMU crew set to 
row in Head of 
the Ohio
The Carnegie Mellon crew team will 
participate this weekend in the Head of 
the Ohio river race. The race starts at 
Herrs Island in the middle of the Al
legheny River and continues to Point 
State Park.
All of the participatingteams will 
begin rowing at the Three Rivers Row
ing Association boat house on the Herrs 
Island channel. Besides Carnegie Mel
lon, the University of Pittsburgh,
Duquesne University, a number of 
other teams will be taking part in the 
Head of the Ohio race.
NSF fellowship 
stipend 
increased
The National Science Foundation has 
increased its award stipend for 1992- 
93 winners. Winners will now receive 
$14,000 for their research.
The National Science Foundation 
plans to award 950 three-year fellow
ships to individuals who demonstrate 
exceptional ability in science and engi
neering. Applications for these 
fekkowships must be in by November 
8,1991.
Crime and Incident Report
' 9/13 PROPERTY DAMAGE,
pm. A student was driving 
irough the entrance gate located 
m the center of the east campus 
jarage, and the gate arm came 
down on his truck. The truck 
was damaged on the left side of 
;he roof, consisting of two long 
scratches down to the bare metal 
and a dented roof.
9/13 MISSING PERSON, 
;9:41 pm. The mother of a Carn
egie Mellon student reported that 
her son was missing from CMU 
since 9/2. The student was last 
seen in his apartment on 9/2 at 2 
pm, packing one bag of clothes. 
He has aMac banking card which 
was used in Arkansas on 9/4 and 
Texas on 9/5. His mother said 
that he might have driven to
California. On 9/15, his mother 
notified the CMU police that her 
son had called her at approxi
mately 3 pm and said that he 
was on his way home.
9/14 SIMPLE ASSAULT, 
12:52 am. A student, who was 
delivering toilet paper and 
Comet to a resident assistant, 
was informed that there was a 
student in the building who may 
be the victim of alcohol poison
ing. In an attempt to assess the 
victims condition, he was as
saulted. He said that his 
assaulter did not want to be as
sessed and repeatedly threw 
him on the bed. The drunken 
person was later determined to 
be okay.
9/14 SUSPICIOUS PER
SON, 2:05 am. Campus Police 
received a report of two suspi
cious people in Scaife Hall try
ing doors. The complainant sur
prised the two people as they 
were lookinginto his lab through 
an open door. The two people 
said that they were looking for a 
computer cluster, then left. The 
complainant said he knows these 
people do not belong in Scaife 
Hall, and that a front door of the 
building is broken. He thinks 
they may have entered through 
the door and were looking for an 
opportunity to steal. Mainte
nance requests have been made 
for the broken door.
9/15 MEDICAL ESCORT, 
5:44 pm. A student suffered an 
ankle injury while participating
STUDY ABROAD INFORMATION
TWO IMPORTANT MEETINGS ON CMU OPPORTUNITIES
SEPTEMBER 25TH: CENTRE DE TOURS
Q&A SESSION ON CMU'S 
NEW PROGRAM IN TOURS, FRANCE 
5:30 PM. ADAMSON WING, BAKER HALL
OCTOBER 3RD: GENERAL INFORMATION
5:00 PM. ADAMSON WING, BAKER HALL
No Application Fee
EPFL-OUR 15 YR OLD EXCHANGE IN SWITZERLAND 
FOR CIT, MCS & ARCHITECTURE MAJORS
KEIO UNIVERSITY EXCHANGE IN JAPAN 
DEPARTMENT EXCHANGE PROGRAMS 
STUDYING WITH OTHER SCHOOLS 
EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW
SPONSORED BY THE
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION
219 SMITH HALL, X 7595
in medieval games sponsored by 
the Society for Creative Anach
ronism. The student said that 
while he was down on his knees 
another person came by, tripped 
and fell on .top of him, causing 
his ankle turn under him. Both 
were taken to Presby.
9A5 THEFT, 9:10 pm. A stu
dent reported the theft of a 1988 
Yamaha motorcycle. The bike 
was parked outside of the front 
door on the PiKA patio. The 
motorcycle was insured.
9/17 FIREWORKS DIS
CHARGE, 5:38 pm. A student 
said that between 9/15 and 9/17 
during the daytime, fireworks 
had been set off from an un
known source. A Texas Pop 
Rocket had been discharged from
an unknown location. It hit the 
wall next to two wide open doors 
and landed on the balcony of 
Mudge house. The victim is con
cerned that a rocket might fly in 
the open doors while no one is at 
home and set the room on fire.
9/17 MEDICAL ESCORT, 
9:36 pm. As a student was wash
ing his face, he noticed that both 
whites of his eyes were red, as if 
they were bleeding internally. 
He was taken to Eye and Ear 
Hospital.
9/17 UNSECURE VE
HICLE, 10:28 pm. While check
ing parking area 12, an officer 
found that the keys were left in 
the ignition of a postal truck 
which was left parked in the 
middle of the parking lot.
9/19 MEDICAL ESCORT,
8:15 pm. A student said that he 
fell on his right shoulder while 
playing in an intramural foot
ball game. He was taken to 
Presby.
9/19 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 12 am. A student called 
CMU police and said that some
one was shooting laser lights 
through her window. It was 
found that the residents of a 
nearby dorm were testing a new 
laser sight. They said that they 
were unaware that the light was 
shining in someones window. 
Two paint guns in their room 
were confiscated by CMU po
lice.
Compiled by 
MATT BUSHEY
Thursday, September 26, 1991
fnendi
mdcfwmten
do ivhar >ou know
'esponi wW 
narassaienr
nera
curiositi
Ring & Kilmartin
and 
Things That MakeYou Go Hmmm
: Aii insightful and humorous look
at men, women, sexuality, work, 
leisure and life..
430 pm Ballroom
Sing & K ilcnartj n
ahd '
Things That Make You 
Hmmm II: For
By men, especially for men.
A recap of "Things" and more.
7:00 pm Ballroom
Sponsored by the Division of Student Affairs. Student Senate. Greek Council, Housing & Residence life and SDC
Y

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Health Services 
condition is critical
Health Services needs to take 
a good look at itself. There are 
some major gaps in the basic 
care given by this campus ser
vice, although it has recently 
implemented some useful 
changes. It has enlisted the 
services of a professional nutri
tionist and has added a male 
registered nurse practitioner to 
its previously all-female staff. 
The new monthly programs 
which focus on various health 
problems will be beneficial to 
the campus community as well. 
However, these do not make up 
for the problems remaining in 
the fundamental services we re
ceive there.
Currently, a woman must wait 
approximately six weeks for a 
gynecological appointment. This 
is simply not acceptable, nor is 
it adequate health care. In addi
tion, there are very limited hours 
during which you can call to 
schedule an appointment: be
tween 8:30 am and noon on 
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, 
and Friday, or between 10 am 
and noon on Wednesday. Only 
one employee of Health Services 
can schedule the appointments. 
While these hours have been 
expanded since last year, they 
are still all within class hours 
and are therefore inconvenient 
for many students.
The cost of gynecological care 
at Health Services is low com
pared to the cost of outside clin
ics and private physicians, but 
the long wait for an available 
appointment and the limited 
hours for making an appoint
ment deter women from going to 
Health Services and perhaps 
from getting the quality health 
care they deserve.
Another area of concern for 
students is the lack of a medical 
doctor on staff at Health Ser
vices, at least part time. Most 
students are not originally from 
the Pittsburgh area, and there
fore dont have a doctor here. 
For many of these students, the 
attention they receive at Health 
Services is the only medical care 
they receive while in school. 
Without a doctor on staff, Health 
Services can only do so much.
Local hospitals are available for 
treating serious illnesses. There 
are many illnesses, however, that 
need a doctors care, but not hos
pital care or an expensive trip to 
the emergency room.
Students rely on Health Ser
vices for their medical needs. 
While the new programs and 
staff are helpful, Health Services 
still needs to pay attention to 
making quality, dependable, 
basic health care consistently 
available.
Payroll Departments 
credibility bounces
Every week you hope that you 
will receive a paycheck that is 
surprisingly large. Unfortu
nately, most of the time the 
paycheck is lower than you hope 
it will be. This was not the case 
for about 1000 students who 
worked for the University over 
the summer. When they picked 
up their August 30 checks, they 
were pleasantly surprised to find 
that they had been grossly 
overpaid.
Two weeks earlier, Payrolls 
computers had a system crash 
which wiped their database 
clean. Payroll reloaded the da
tabase from tape back-ups of 
the information that it makes 
for just such an emergency. In 
the process, the previous pay
check and the current paycheck 
were added together, causing 
the overpayment to students.
Students lives are a maze of 
complex time commitments and 
responsibilities. The Payroll 
foul-up only complicates the fi
nances of students who have 
other things to worry about. 
Payroll made the right choice in 
a bad situation by overpaying 
people instead of not paying 
them at all, but the situation 
should never have happened in 
the first place.
We can understand that mis
takes happen, but this was more 
than just a simple paycheck 
mistake. One thousand students 
were affected. When Payroll has 
such a major breakdown in its 
systems, there should be exten
sive checking to insure that the 
restoration was correct and
^ WlOMTHS LAte^ . 
^HEALTH gefciiices IOOJ
Letters to the Editor
CMU must take strong 
stance on alcohol policy
on
thorough. The need for this sort 
of double-checking is exempli
fied by this situation.
In addition to a human check 
of the restoration, a computer 
check should be standard oper
ating procedure for such a large 
payroll system. These errors 
could have been located by the 
extra monitoring and corrected 
before it affected so many people.
Payroll must also help students 
cope with this situation. The 
amount of taxes taken out of the 
overpaid paychecks is incorrect, 
and the Payroll staff should find 
some way to correct this side 
effect of their error. Students 
should not have to pay out of 
their meager earnings more 
taxes than they would normally 
have to as a result of the over
payment. Staff from Payroll 
should make themselves avail
able to answer questions about 
these sorts of repercussions.
In the aftermath of the payroll 
problem, some procedural 
changes should be implemented 
to catch and prevent the same 
type of mistake in the future. 
Payroll should begin a program 
of changes that includes thor
ough checking of database in
formation. Also, the student tax 
situation should be corrected 
and Payroll should offer support 
services to help students work 
with payroll to smooth out this 
problem. Payroll can help ease 
the confusion created by the 
error with clear instructions on 
measures to fix the situation 
and hopefully return Payroll to 
good standing with students.
Editor:
In last weeks issue 
of The Tartan, Rich 
Robinson discussed LGttGf tO 
the alcohol problem in 
fraternities at Carn- the Edltr 
egie Mellon and recent attempts at 
solving this problem [New policy 
stresses responsibility, 9/16].
As a non-drinking freshman at CMU, 
I have had first-hand experience with 
the problem of underage drinking, 
having visited all of the fraternities 
during Rush with freshmen friends 
who do drink. Although I cannot deny 
that a fraternity house is the best place 
to go for a lively party, I was frankly 
appalled by the amount of unrestrained 
underage drinking I saw.
I am aware that some efforts are 
currently being made by the frater
nities and by the University to control 
underage drinking. Although these so
lutions seem viable on the surface, they 
have little merit in actually controlling 
the problem.
One example of the measures imple
mented in fraternities as cited in 
Robinsons column was the use of the 
hand stamp. Hand stamps are sup
posedly used to identify guests under 
21, and to presumably cut down the
problem of underage drinking. If this 
system was reliably enforced it would 
be an effective policy, but in actual 
practice, my friends can walk right up 
to the bar and get a beer, with no one 
checking whether or not we have hand 
stamps.
Other measures such as sobriety 
patrols, and limiting the amount of 
alcohol served, although they work well 
in protecting guests from injury, do 
nothing to alleviate the problem of un
derage drinking: they can be charac
terized merely as post factum mea
sures.
I cannot deny that the fraternities 
are trying to take steps to control the 
problem of underage drinking; I merely 
feel that they are going about it the 
wrong way.
In the Carnegie Mellon Student 
Handbook on page 38, the following 
statement is made about the 
Universitys student alcohol policy: 
Carnegie Mellon faculty, administra
tors, and staff recognize the responsi
bility and potential harm inherent in 
use of alcoholic beverages.
If this statement is indeed true, we 
need to see greater steps taken to con
trol underage drinking. If we adopt a 
hard-line stance against drug abuse 
(which is illegal), we should adopt the 
same stance against underage drink
ing (which is also illegal).
The question then turns to what pos
sible solutions there are. Perhaps Car
negie Mellon police officers should start 
issuing citations to any students who 
appear to be underage drinkers, using 
student I.D. checks and breathalyzer 
tests as proof.
This is not an unfair violation of 
privacy; these same methods are used 
upon adults by officers of the law. The 
threat of fines or other punishment by 
the state can also be enforced by the 
city of Pittsburgh police in conjunction 
with Carnegie Mellon security.
The problem of underage drinking is 
the most important issue facing Carn
egie Mellon University today. We know 
this is a problem, but just turning our 
heads is not the answer.
Carnegie Mellon should be dedicated 
to protecting the physical and emo
tional health of its students, and there
fore should take broader steps toward 
controlling underage drinking.
I have no problem with students 
who are of a legal drinking age and 
choose to drink.
But tell me what kind of responsi
bility exists when the problem of un
derage drinking is ignored by those 
who have the power to do something 
about it.
Paul Mitchell 
Freshman, ECE
Illusions destroyed by reality
Abby Schifi
Dont believe everything you hear. 
Take nothing for granted.
When my father whispered these 
words in my ear as he dropped me off 
for my first day of nursery school, I 
co^ld never have dreamed that they 
would come back to haunt me at college. 
They have. Carnegie Mellon boasts 
myths a-plenty; here are four of them, 
expunged.
Myth One: The great male-to-female 
ratio.
I have just one thing to say about this 
fabled ratio: Oh,puh-leeze. Nobody was 
more jubilant than I to learn that at 
Carnegie Mellon a girl usually rated a 
2 is automatically elevated to a 6 
because of the skewed male-female ratio 
- finally I would break that blasted 1 
barrier! Well, Im sorry to report that 
the statistics mean zilch.
The fraternities, our main form of 
weekend nightlife, severely limit the 
number of men allowed into their par
ties. This jeopardizes the cherished ratio 
in fact, there are about twenty-seven 
frothing-at-the-mouth women for every 
man inside. Standing in the corner at 
one ofthese shindigs, at one pointnearly 
being mistaken for a mobile catch-all 
for bodily fluids, I saw my rating plum
met to a mere .79. The fact that thats 
about a quarter of a point above my 
normal score doesnt console me in the 
least.
Myth Two: Large Classes = Easy As.
A class with 300 people in it is for me.
I can sleep. Eat. Cut. Hide in the back 
of the room. I can pass notes, doodle, 
and talk with my neighbor. Exactly 
why I crave to engage in such inane 
activities I cant pinpoint, but it prob
ably has something to do with repeat
edly being told not to do them all through 
high school.
My first class in Doherty 2210, a 
lecture hall roughly the size of Milwau
kee, was a happy onemainly because 
the room was air conditioned. Reason
ing that I could snooze in frosty bliss 
thrice weekly and catch up in section
bright, eager college students, we all 
expected to find intellectually chal
lenging work at fair pay during our 
college careers. What we got was te
dious, backbreaking labor at minimum 
wage or something close to it.
Sometimes, on late study night, as 
Im waiting for a cold cup of coffee to 
cool even further and staring blearyeyed at a half-eaten bag of stale Doritos, 
I hear the old familiar chant going 
through my mind: You coulda been a 
plumber. Seventy-five dollars an hour. 
You coulda been a plumber....
The fraternities, our main form of weekend 
nightlife, severely limit the number of men 
allowed into their parties. This jeopardizes 
the cherished ratio  in fact, there are 
about twenty-seven frothing-at-the-mouth 
women for every man inside.
later on, I succumbed to the soothing 
drone of the professors voice and drifted 
off.
Five days later, I met my nemesis: a 
teaching assistant who didnt speak 
English  or any other recognizable 
language.
Unfortunately, sleeping in lecture is 
a habit thats hard to break. Fortu
nately, my T.A. and I are now able to 
communicate in eastern-dialect 
Transylvanian. Im picking it up re
markably fast.
Myth Three: Campus job =big bucks.
I should have known that any school 
as expensive as Carnegie Mellon would 
be reluctant to part with its money. As
Myth Four: The food at CMU is deli
cious and nutritious.
No, that was not a cheap joke. Truth 
be told, I never expected to find Carn
egie Mellons food delectable. Yet com
pared to my current opinion, my earli
est Carnegie Mellon Dining Service 
expectations were quite high. During 
freshman orientation, eyeing leafy 
green vegetables and the frozen yogurt 
machine, I thought Salad! Yogurt! My 
freshman fifteen will be the weight I 
/ose!
Only now, four weeks and two jeanssizes later, do I fully realize the impli' 
cations of my naivete.
bhnC4n 4nn >OO21 ,Con F
/

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 September 19917
Write your resum, pick your reality
Jason McDonald
This past week, I got my first 
unpleasant reminder of the fact 
that I am a senior: it was time 
for the annual Resum Book. I 
also got the first proof of my 
senioritis as I waited until the 
night before my resum was due 
to finish it. But I learned a very 
valuable lesson: the resum is 
undoubtedly the stupidest cre
ation the modem world has ever 
seen.
Ignore the fact that resums 
are about as dehumanizing a 
concept as you can find. If you 
think about it, were saying that 
a persons life can be boiled down 
to a single page of paper, which 
looks remarkably like hundreds 
of other pieces of paper that go 
across the desk of some human 
resources manager in an office 
somewhere. A few get the privi
lege of being made to jump 
through hoops in an interview; 
the rest just find their way to a 
landfill. Feeling small enough 
yet?
Enough of my cynicism,
though. Lets take alook at some 
of the more interesting aspects 
of this critter we call a resum, 
starting with overall design. 
Why is it that I should be put 
ahead or behind my fellow se
niors in the job market just be
cause I happen to think Palatino 
is a cool font? Why should my 
resum stand out because of a 
black-bar-with-reverse-type 
trick that I borrowed from 
someone else, who in turn got it 
from a third person? Its the ul
timate triumph of style over 
substance  letting your entire 
future rest on some production 
values you picked up through 
intellectual osmosis.
But the substance isnt much 
better. After the name and ad
dress, almost everything in your 
garden-variety resum is com
pletely useless. Look at the ob
jective section of any resum 
and youre reading a downright 
lie.
Of all the things I could wish 
for in this worldworld peace, 
a cleaner environment, finding 
the right woman, or just finding 
a good parking spot on a regular 
basis  I asked for a long-term 
position that will allow me to 
make use of my business educa
tion as well as my creative skills.
/ learned that I loathe the real world and all the vicious, 
small-minded, conniving morons who inhabit it I also 
learned that thuggery and deceit are usually rewarded; 
people rarely, if ever, say what they really mean; and 
that everyone and everything has a price."
Talk about being easy to shop 
for.
The next part of my resum is 
the education/relevant coursework section. My QPA here is 
dependent on the individual 
grading curves of 30 different 
classes, all with different 
teachers who have different 
ideas on what constitutes good 
work, so how relevant can that 
be? (You may have guessed that 
Im not carrying a 4.0 here). That 
aside, the whole idea of relevant 
coursework bothers me because 
it presumes that I have spent 
some of my college life doing 
irrelevant coursework.
Experience is one of the more 
hypocritical sections of the av
erage resum. After all, the first 
thing listed under almost every 
job in the world should be, I 
learned that I loathe the real 
world and all the vicious, smallminded, conniving morons who 
inhabit it. I also learned that 
thuggery and deceit are usually 
rewarded; people rarely, if ever, 
say what they really mean; and 
that everyone and everything 
has a price. Unfortunately, most 
of us (myself included) bail out 
of that answer and act like filing 
things alphabetically or stock
ing shelves for some jackass who 
took it as a personal affront that 
we were getting a college educa
tion was such the life-enriching 
experience.
References available upon 
request is a fitting finish to the 
common resum  after put
ting on a false face for a while, 
youll let other people do it for 
you. I need my references as 
much as the next person, but do 
employers really think theyre 
getting a complete picture of a 
person from letting that employee choose the people he or 
she gets input from?
As long as theyre going to let 
us get away with all this postur
ing, I think we should just be 
honest about it. College seniors 
could hire actors to go to inter
views for them, wed be allowed 
to write our own references and 
experience, and we could all save 
money by doing our resumes on 
My Little Pony stationery in
stead of the stuff thats made of 
better material than some of my 
shirts. I bet that story about 
saving the baby from the sharks 
at the Aqua Zoo would get me a 
job at IBM.
Jason McDonald is a senior 
industrial management major 
who will NOT be including this 
column in his collection of writ
ing samples tc send to potential 
employers.
Schools cheat students through research
Rich Robinson
The Great Tuition Scam. In the col
lege section of Rolling Stone this week, this 
article by Walter Russel Mead caught my 
attention. I thought it might be about 
embezzlement by an administration or 
some type of crazy price fixing scam by 
colleges. Not surprisingly, it was worse.
Yes, it dealt with the fraud cases, like 
the governments money being used to 
pay for a trip to the Grand Canyon by the 
wife of the former president of the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh.
However, Mead says that such travel 
perks are just victory trophies ... of a 
new kind of class war: the war against 
students. So far, students are losing. 
After some thought, Im inclined to agree.
Today, it is almost necessary for anyone 
wishing to make a decent living to go to 
college. We, the students, are members of 
the most studious generation in history. 
Yet, we are being hit with the highest 
tuitions ever seen, increasing at twice the 
rate of inflation every year. With gov
ernment budget cuts, our counterparts in 
state schools are looking at a similar 
situation.
But what do we get for our money? 
Academic counseling is definitely lacking 
across the nation.
My freshman year, my counselor didnt 
even know what an Industrial Manage
ment course was, let alone what courses 
I should take to satisfy my career goals. 
We have bigger problems than this, 
though.
First and foremost, we belong to a 
research university. And the main 
product of Carnegie Mellon University 
is not educated undergraduates ready 
for the world; it is research.
Highly paid professors  paid by our 
tuition  rarely see a classroom. The 
administration lets them skip by teach
ing one class a semester, because they 
are busy conducting research.
Meanwhile, we get cheated with 
graduate students who cant even speak 
English, let alone understand it, have no 
training in teaching, and usually dont 
know everything that they are suppos
edly teaching us as our teachers. Why 
should the school care, though? The 
graduate students are cheap labor and 
the research can go on.
God forbid that there is a professor 
who is a true teacher. If he or she doesnt 
have tenure, you can usually forget about 
them staying long. Carnegie Mellon 
University is a research university.
And long live the Teaching Assistant! 
Twenty-five percent of all teachers at 
four-year universities are teaching as
sistantsuntrained undergraduate and 
graduate students. What type of educa
tion do we get from this? Sadly, Carnegie 
Mellon is not alone in this educational 
scam, although it is up at the top.
A former associate professor summed 
up the research university attitude in an 
interview with Rolling Stone. Its the
kiss of death if you volunteer to teach two 
classes instead of one before tenure. They 
will say This guy is a teacher. Gross  
lets not have any of those here.
The main point is this: We here at CMU 
pay a vast amount of money to get an 
education at a prestigious school. But,
get you a job other than flipping burgers 
or emptying trash.
But, it does give the only competitive 
edge we can get. Not graduating pretty 
much guarantees an Al Bundy life of 
shoe selling.
At least with a CMU stamped degree,
The main point is this: We here at CMU pay a 
vast amount of money to get an education at 
a prestigious school. But the students don't 
have the power to find out where their money 
goes.... And if the students can find out, they 
can't do anything about it.
the students dont have the power to find 
out where their money goesmost likely 
to overpaid research professors  not 
to educating the students. And if the 
students can find out, they cant do any
thing about it.
Take the forced fraternity lease increase 
as an example. The school hired a'lawyer 
to tell the fraternities they couldnt do 
anything.
More bluntly, the school seemed to be 
telling the fraternities that if they tried 
to resist, CMU has enough money and 
resources to cause the fraternities more 
trouble than it would be worth.
When we are in a society that demands 
a degree from a prestigious school, we, 
the students, are trapped. Lately, even 
graduating from an excellent school wont
we have a fighting chance at something 
a bit better.
The administration knows this, 
though, and it knows how to use it against 
us.
Even if we do graduate, what type of 
education will we have? Four years of 
trying to decipher Hindu or Chineselaced English? Mead says its time stu
dents started fighting back. How? Are 
we already too beaten down to try?
Where the hell does our money go? Id 
like to know. But then, Id probably fool 
myself into believing I could change 
things so the money went towards edu
cating us  not using us.
Rich Robinson is a senior industrial 
management major.
You be the judge ..
IS THIS A UNE FOR T0IIET PAPER N THB 
Soviet Sepaeg
ortarrif
THE LINE FOR ORDER PICK-UP AT MORP/ZZfl?
Ivona Huszcza is a freshman in H&SS.
Myths exist about 
most aspects of 
Carnegie Mellon
>OO21 cieY ,Con k
Going through the cafeteria 
assembly line, I noticed re
cently that everything I put on 
my tray was either triple 
greasy, mayonnaise-laden, or 
both.
Not greasy as in nice, juicy 
McDonalds fries that only 
leave me with slight acid indi
gestion; a vast majority of 
Carnegie Mellon Dining Ser
vice foodstuff, if visible at all, 
is actually adrift in a sea of 
shimmering fat globules. 
When I asked an upperclass
man what could be done about 
this, he advised me to wash 
everything down with a nice 
tall glass of Diet Coke.
It should come as no sur
prise that Im gradually ex
panding to form-fit the walls
of my room.
After all, the number of 
Dominos Pizza is entered into 
the One-Touch autodial of my 
phone.
Skirts hide at the back of 
my closet every time the word 
pepperoni comes up in casual 
conversation, which incidently 
. is quite often: Lets order a 
large pepperoni pie and split 
it between us! And this is me 
talking to myself.
At this point, Im seriously 
considering having Courtesy of 
Dominos Pizza, Inc. tattooed 
on my right buttock.
Id have it done on both of 
them, but the cost of the meal 
plan kinda cleaned me out.
Abby Schiffis a freshman in 
H&SS.
THETARTAN
Cilnosn fnhheld4 KuNanlu BnM4,C,ni 
KslDn twyk
Editor-in-ChiefPPPPPPPPPPPPOnum >P Moses
Managing EditorPPPPPPPPPPPP6nsas 6ee-ni
Business Manager..UP>P 6nlani4el
Acting News EditorPPPPPPPfnoCl Usnu.
Forum EditorPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPfPTP 3eaoni4
Sports EditorPPPPPPPPPPPrC4el fDUelCha
Acting Features EdPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPfCils OeinI
Diversions Editor....Kun,mnl qhsDIni
Calendar EditorPPPPPPPPPPPPKN4Cl >AiCY4
Magazine EditorPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP>hs4el qinnl
Dossier Literary Ed. PRCYCiC psnAniu 
Dossier Design Editor PPP6Cl4 xClo
Art Editor..............................John Lin
Photo EditorPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPre4m ginnYCl
Production MgrPPPPPPPPPPPPrnllscni geiAn4
Copy Manager PPPPLhhnl 6nlaisDI4el
Systems ManagerPPPPPPPPPPPP>aCY qie44
Asst. Forum EditorPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPRsY OhC44
Asst. Sports Ed. PBCuChsn fP qn4Yela
Asst. Features EdPPPPPPPP>lainC giClIn
Asst. Art EditorPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPmsl Sm
Photo Staff & Darkroom Mgr. UClsnh gin8
Contributing Editors 
RCa UeDI4uCani1 Rniis TC4Dm1 Un5uni 
TeAC8C4ms1 KCYClumC Te44YCl1 Rme0
YC4 BsDmeh41 >hsY 3C81 xshhsCY P 
KCAiCY1 /olCusN4 KC4YsuC1 3melaC 
KuiNYsloni
Senior Staff 
rNa8 qie44YCl1 xC4nnY 6N44Csl1 
3sDm 3eAsl4el1 fsIn KmC,sie1 3Cla8 
:aC-DCI1 >P giClIhsl xmnnhni
Staffwriters 
>hhCl OeNiasN41 >hs4el Ciuni1 >l0
ainM e4nlusle1 UC-n fCiusl1 RiN,us 
bCunh1 Tnhh8 Kunihslo
Art
3e8 6NClo1 RiCD8 Tiee,
Comics
KDeuu bCIsl1 fsIn KmC,sie1 rnl 
Rmei4el
Darkroom 
rn44sDC fshhni1 3sDI VNsll
Production 
3sDI VNsll1 Ts4mei TP 3Ce1 RslC :i4e
Design
fCuu >ahni
Copy
KN4Cl OCIni1 Cumnisln OnhhClDC1 
>hhCl OeNiasN41 pnllC T8an41 RslC 
:i4e
Business
fCiI Te84DnI1 KmCi8l 3euNlle1 Bshee 
KeAmCls
Junior Staff 
fCiI >hAniu41 BsDehn >hhnl1 rncc 
OC4s4uC1 UnAAsn OCNni1 fsDmCnh 
OnCia1 fCils OhCIn1 UC-n Oes4Nniu1 
fehh8 OinllCl1 fCuu ON4mn81 mis4 
nlIlni1 giClIhsl mClo1 Rislnuun 
mClahni1 Tn-sl mnl1 Tn-sl eeln81 
fehh8 UChIsnMsD.1 UCi8h UC-s41 KCY 
qinnlcsnha1 OnlXCYsl qisccsl1 Uel 6Cl1 
fCiI 6shhsni1 rNhsCl 6ehhslo4mnCa1 
/-elC 6N4.D.C1 RCu4N /InaC1 peis 
rNioe-4Is1 UsCln Tnnl1 >lonhC Tn4hCi1 
rnCllsn TsY1 qneioslC Teel1 RiCD8 
Tieen1 fniel pClo4Ynl1 Tis4usl 
pn,Con1 TCumnisln pn4ueDI1 pslaC 
peYACias1 eiis fnu.1 KmC.sC BCXYs1 
LisD SoCY1 pCNiC bChClIni1 >hCl 
bnuishhe1 bCNh bhCue4m1 >Y8 beuumC4u1 
Knum 3naYein1 mis4 3n4usce1 n4Ci 
KClDmn.1 >AA8 KDmscc1 RCiC KnYCl1 
OisCl KunMCiu1 TCusn KMCloe1 fCuu 
Rmei,n1 xnla8 RNoohn1 rnllscni 
RNilni1 rC4el x84n1 fCi8 2nn1 pn4hsn 
JNACu8
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper 
published by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the Univer
sity community. It is printed by Western Pennsyl
vania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available 
for the semester or academic year. The editori
als appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political cartoons 
are the opinions of individual creators. The 
Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense 
any column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests 
that letters be no longer than 350 words. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Copyright 1991 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/
Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890
Funded in part by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.Library of Congress ISSN If: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

The Music Box
201 S. Craig Street Pittsburgh, PA 15213
CDs * Records * Videos
Monday - Saturday
Buy/Sell 
(412) 681-9211
Campus Classics
Study the classic blend of 
comfort and style in Birkenstock 
footwear, and 
learn how good 
your feet can 
feel! Suede, 
leather, and 
nubuck styles in 
autumn colors of 
forest, berry, mocha and violet.
Biikenstock!
T3ie Sfipe Inr^
5874 Forbes Avenue Squirrel Hill 521-9122
Sfb:RL3 
K/LBL1 
f/K >BU 
3Lp>RLU 
f>rS3K
s
MS invites you to consider a company that allows 
you to use high-level technology with one of 
Americas consistently successful corporations.
We are the undisputed leader in providing 
sophisticated information management systems to the 
healthcare industry. Today, our information systems 
and services are operating in hospitals and physician 
offices worldwide. As an employee with SMS, you will 
discover a wide variety of programming disciplines 
available to you.
Our headquarters arc conveniently located in 
Philadelphias attractive western suburbs.
To find out more about SMS careers, look for us 
during campus interview sign-ups. Or stop by the 
career placement office to view our corporate 
literature and company video.
We arc an equal opportunity employer.
SHARED MEDICAL 
SYSTEMS CORPORATION
Engineering, Math/ 
Computer Science Majors
CREATE YOUR CAREER AT THE DEFENSE 
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
On-Campus Interviews November 21
DIA collects, analyzes, inter
prets, and disseminates foreign 
military Intelligence vital to the 
formulation and execution of 
national security policy.
DIA's mission requires a unique 
blend of individual skills and tal
ents. DIA Intelligence profes
sionals utilize their knowledge 
and abilities from a range of 
academic fields to support 
executive, legislative, and mili
tary policy makers. DIA offers an 
exclusive opportunity to partici
pate in the daily operations of the 
national intelligence community. 
Computer professionals play a 
vital role in any modern intelli
gence organization. Advanced 
technology and sophisticated
systems allow DIA to monitor 
the changing world situation and 
respond quickly with decisions 
based on current, accurate data. 
Our opportunities in program
ming systems development and 
computer engineering are 
unsurpassed.
The diversity of programs and 
opportunities at DIA will give tal
ented professionals the 
resources to create a rewarding 
career. Plus you will enjoy living 
and working in one of the worlds 
most powerful and exciting cities: 
Washington, D C. To explore a 
career with DIA, please see your 
Career Counseling or Placement 
Officer for more information.
DIA is an equal opportunity employer
$10
HAIRCUT
(WITH STUDENT I.D.)
EVERY DAY AT
CIMINI
Walk-Ins Welcome
406 S. Craig St.
WSlh8 v OheDI4 cieY umn CumnaiCh ec pnCilslo
621-4247
Counseling & Student Development Center
Morewood Gardens  E Tower 
268-2922
Crisis Intervention 
Individual Psychotherapy 
Referrals from Health Services
Consultation 
Assessment & Referral 
Sexual Assault Counseling
Groups: .Support Groups for International Students, Making Friends and Stress 
Reduction through relaxation; Therapy Groups for Graduate Students and Acquantance 
Rape Survivors
Hours by Appointment Weekday Walk-in Crisis Honrs After-hours Emergency Service 
Division of Student Affairs
AN EPISCOPAL CHAPLAINCY
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH AND CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BASED 
AT THE LUTHERAN UNIVERSITY CENTER
THE REV. KELLY MARSHALL,
EPISCOPAL CHAPLAIN
The Lutheran University Center is located at 4515 Forbes Ave., 
near Forbes and Craig, and across the street from the Scaife Gallery.
For times of Episcopal worship Services, or to speak with Father 
Marshall, please call!
LUTHERAN UNIVERSITY CENTER PHONE 682-6886OFFICE PHONE 362-1557
Save
We Carry The Area's Largest 
Supply Of Haircare And Makeup
Paul Mitchell - Nexxus - Matrix - Sebastian 
Tri - Redken - Sukesha - Goldwell - Scruples 
Trucco Makeup By Sebastian 
Christine Valmy Skin Care
813 S. Aiken Ave. Shadyside 682-4063
I SAVE 20% ON i 
I PRODUCTS I 
I WITH COUPON' 
I OR STUDENT 1
I.D. EXPIRES
10-31-91I
>lume86 ,Is4 C
S. !A.%.C; the Alumni Association, and Scotch 'lh[ Soda cordially invite you to attend
ft Canddight (Dinner in the Skibo Ballroom to be followed by 
"Jieres to you, the original Scotch '91Soda musical review.
_ "fDifDrOctober 4th at 7pm, $6 per person
CHIP U AJ
by October 1st at the Mumni office, 5017 orb es Avenue, Second floor,
9 am - 4pm. Seating is available in parties of 2, 4, 6, or 8, and is limited.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 September 19919
A PERSON'SOPINION
Carnegie Mellons Health 
Services has made some 
changes to better serve stu
dent needs for adequate health 
care. What do you feel 
Health Services can do to 
provide better health care 
to students?
Julie Malone 
Sophomore 
Political Science
I wish they would be open on 
the weekends. I like the new 
appointment system which pre
vents people from waiting so long 
to see someone.
Chris Pace 
Senior
Managerial Economics
They could recommend doc
tors easier. The appointment 
system should cut down waiting 
time. They should stop record
ing counseling sessions, because 
it makes people who need it 
afraid to say anything.
Crystal Trexel 
Freshman
Industrial Management
They need more people there 
to take care of students. Faster 
service is needed to take care of 
sick people faster.
Lynne Johnson
Freshman
Economics
Thomas Bunyavanich/Tartan Photographer
Rob Horvat
Freshman
H&SS
Health Services should stay 
open on the weekends. Also, they 
need to provide some dental 
service. Maybe a dentist is 
needed to add that knowledge 
to the Health Services staff.
They need to provide more 
information to students. Ba
sically, the students do not 
know what Health Services 
has to offer. They need to 
advertise their services much 
better.
Thanks for investing in our community.
Your gift to the United Way helps people in Southwestern 
Pennsylvania all year long. When you invest in the community 
through the United Way, you help provide services that address a 
wide range of community needs. Your contribution helps strengthen 
families, promotes self-sufficiency, and improves the lives of 
thousands of people who need help including children and young 
adults, senior citizens and individuals who are disabled. Thank you.
United
way
Hey, Forum Staff! 
Don't forget to be in 
The Tartan office at 
6:30 pm Tuesday... 
And bring your sample.
THELMA & LOUISE ARE BACK! 
Nows your chance 
to take
Get-A-Ufe 101
A RIDLEYSCOTTFILM
THELMA UHItSE
METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER ms*(PERCY MAIN*,.RIDLEY SCOTT SUSAN SARANDON GEENA DAVIS THELMA & LOUISE 
HARVEY KEITEL SR ELIZABETH McBRIDE "5 HANS ZIMMER ,*,* DEAN OBRIEN CALLIE KH0URI  THOM NOBLE"BSB NORRIS SPENCER S! .ADRIAN BIDDLE,; "S CALLIE Kl iOURI 
T RIDLEY SCOTUMIMl POLK 8 RIDLEY SCOTT as**?RI-S
COMING TO A THEATER NEAR CAMPOS ON SEPTEMBER 27
Student Organization 
Storage Space Available
One storage cage underneath 
the stadium and one garage 
by the Physical Plant 
Building are available for 
occupancy. If your 
organization is interested in 
obtaining one of these spaces 
please stop at the Informtion 
Desk and pick-up an 
application form. Completed 
applications are due by 
Tuesday, October 1, 1991 and 
should be turned in at the 
Information Desk, Attn: 
Bonnie Gorman.

---------------------------------------------------

'C4Mr,cd Research  DC-1 Os  HaWni
Parking  University Ci 
Enrollment  Student H(
 Overcrowding  Contn 
Exercise  Congress  Mil
 Woody Allen  The Muj
 Hair  Mousse  Hiuni_____
Howdy's Volume  Bill's HEBSS iHlWng  Sororities  Charities
 DiningService  Environment  Hostages  Recycling  Congress  Middle East * Weather  Advising  Sex  Geeks  Alcohol
 Gay RjBts  Mdge^Mi^i^^lighiJM^se  Th^lag Mnding Student Affairs
- Mayor ,Pa (rf Cr-^^^^^TroMugf-Mijnstelfc c ics ||bvi K? W bPwWWTO  Sororities
 ChariJJM^pMj^ Re ffljf yrol'0 n SVppi W|Srts " Crime
 Sex  Geeks Corruption  Violence  Alcohol Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comeaj^WooayAHer^ninding  Student 
Affairs  Construction  Overcrowding  Housing  Racial Issues  Sororities  Charities  Dining Service  Environment  
Recycling Q^^gress  Middlc^pf^fray Rights * Weathe^g Advising  Si
 Mighty
ClassifiedJUp'BJISSOs * Sti
Housing sororities* Charities ^Dinin^ServiceMDnvironment
 Advising  Sex  Geeks  Alcohol  Gay Rights  Drugs  Budget  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  The Flag  Woody 
Alien.*-F-Unding  Student Affairs  Mayor  Construction  Track Field  Overcrowding  Constitution  Activities Board
 Geeks 
C i alfe
gl  Drugs  Blacks  Music 
Computers  
crowding  
East '* Weather
Prepare for the New Century!
with
Rensselaer's 
Management & Technology 
Master of Business Administration
This innovative two year degree program enables you to:
 Learn all aspects of traditional business functions.
 Fully comprehend the impact of technology on functional disciplines.
 Interrelate all elements of business through integrated coursework.
 Enhance related skills sets: interpersonal, communicative, and directive.
 Gain global perspective of business in today's international marketplace.
 Understand how technological trends impact the business world.
 Work with companies developing real solutions for real problems.
Rensselaer offers M.B.A. concentrations in:
Entrepreneurship Environmental management
Health Systems Management Management of Information Systems
Manufacturing management Technological Management
Traditional Functional Disciplines
Launch your career into the 21st Century!
Visit:
Marsha Hall
External Affairs Director, at 
Grad School Fair 1991 in 
Skibo Ballroom on 
Tuesday, September 24,1991 
From 10:00 am to 3:00 pm
Or Contact:
The Rensselaer M&T M.B.A. 
Masters' programs Office 
Lally Management Center 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 
Troy, New York 12180-3590 
(518) 276-4800
FRIES
FRIES
FRIES
FRIES
FRIES
The "O sells 
30,000 lbs. of 
fries a week. 
Come in and see 
what you're 
missing.
Fresh Ground $.99 Cheeseburger
... and as always The Original is home of the 
16" 2.99 Cheese Pizza
Pizza delivers.
So does Pizza
THE RIDE BOARD
Rides needed
Alexi Cohen ride needed to NY, NY 
mid-semester weekend. 363-0534
Destination New York City. Need ride 
Thanksgiving, Christmas (both ways). 
Will help pay gas. Jeffrey Siu x4311.
Needed: Ride to Rochester, NY. Any 
weekend. I'll pay half gas and help drive. 
Call Kathleen at 681-2904, evenings.
Wanted: Washington, DC area 
(Rockville, Md) for mid-semester break. 
I will share expenses. Beth x4705
Community Outreach Tax Assistance
offers seminars and group 
return preparation for 
businesses, farms, and 
individuals. IRS offices 
will give you more 
information.
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
But, only the Original ; 
Shop offers the $2.99
16
mjw-Cheese Pizza(Offer noi good for delivery)
Phone 621-0435
Original Hot Dog Shop and Top of the "O"
Comer of Forbes Avenue and Bouquet Street in Oakland
The Original Hours : Sunday thru Thursday. 9 AM - 4:30 AM, 
Friday & Saturday. 9 AM - 6 AM 
The Top of the "O" Hours : Daily 11 AM - 2 AM
Houses of Worship Tour
Visit a faith that is new to you or revisit one that is familiar
- attend a service and learn from discussion
jmmiS'M
Temple Sinai 
September 27, 1991 - Friday 
6:30 pm - Leave from Skibo Parking Lot
Other trips:
HINDUISM
October 13, 1991 - Sunday
10:15 am - Leave Skibo Parking Lot
CATHOLICISM
October 20, 1991 - Sunday
11:30 am - Leave Skibo Parking Lot
BAHAI
October 27, 1991 - Sunday 
4:15 pm - Leave Skibo Parking Lot
BUDDHISM
November 3, 1991 - Sunday 
9:30 am - Leave Skibo Parking Lot
PRESBYTERIANISM 
November 10, 1991 - Sunday 
10 am - Leave Skibo Parking Lot
I *91
<I

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
PRESS PASS
by Jason McDonald
Wheres 
Gilligan when 
you need him?
I got a rare taste of the Old 
Milwaukee lifestyle last 
weekend as I travelled to 
Ohiopyle for the semi-annual 
Pioneers rafting trip. Unfortu
nately, what started out as a 
festive weekend outing turned 
into something more like The 
Poseidon Adventure.
The start of the trip pre
viewed the dangers ahead, but 
we were oblivious to it at the 
time. Our eight rafts took 
almost 20 minutes to clear the 
entrance rapids because of the 
low water level (or, depending 
on your point of view, because 
of the high rocks).
The real problems began at 
Dimple Rock, one of the 
tougher rapids on the course. 
The instructions Go right at 
the rock, then paddle like hell 
to the right, raised more than 
a few eyebrows. We got 
through, but the regrouping 
and swimming stop took 
almost half an hour, leaving us 
only halfway down the river 
with less than two hours of 
sunlight left. At this point, 
simple math kicked in and told 
us we ought to speed up our 
journey.
However, the Yough threw 
us one more curveball at 
Whale Rock. Hard left, then 
hard right, or youll have BIG 
problems, was the rule of 
thumb. How big? The sixth 
raft caught, and then flooded, 
leaving a third of our group 
trapped for almost an hour 
while they worked the raft 
free.
During this hour-long 
sabbatical, hunger began to 
kick in. It was now about 6:30, 
and lunch was a distant 
memory. The dual visions of 
hitting large rocks in the dark 
and starving to death made us 
just a little impatient to get 
moving. Suffice it to say, our 
boat was under way even 
before the order to get to the 
pick-up was finally given.
Food was the motor for our 
boat. As the bats flew over
head (yes, bats), I distinctly 
remember chanting to myself 
Hot side hot, cool side cool, in 
anticipation of a dinner trip to 
McDonalds. Incredibly, it 
helped me establish an even 
rowing rhythm, although my 
left arm felt like it was about 
to drop off.
Of course, just like dozens of 
bad horror movies, we almost 
broke down within a stones 
throw of the landing point. I 
still find it ironic that while 
Steve and Dan (our designated 
captains) argued about 
whether to go to the left or 
right of Dragon Rock, Georgi 
and I (the rafting novices) 
were the ones to pick up on the 
fact that our raft was going 
directly into it. As soon as we 
hit the rock, the side of the 
raft dipped, and water started 
cascading into the raft. By the 
time we pulled in, the water in 
the boat was up to our knees.
Dont get me wrong; it was a 
great trip. I got in touch with 
nature, and more importantly, 
was completely out of touch 
with CMU. I just think that 
well have to prepare better 
next time. Halogen headlights 
and an on-board refrigerator 
would be a good first step.
Tartan Sports Editor Jason 
McDonald is a senior IM 
major.
Cutrone dives into 
swim coach vacancy
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellon University 
named Jim Cutrone as its new 
mens and womens swimming 
coach and Aquatics Director this 
week. Cutrone, who most re
cently held the job of swimming 
coach and health instructor at 
Brooklyns New Utrecht High 
School, replaces Bruce 
Bronsdon, who resigned to be
come head mens swimming 
coach at Drexel University.
We feel fortunate to have 
gained a person who is known as 
an energetic teacher and who 
has appropriate coaching expe
rience as well, said Carnegie 
Mellon Athletic Director John 
Harvey. His knowledge of our 
conference, the University Ath
letic Association, and our swim
mers will help move our swim
ming program ahead.
I like the type of students 
here, said Cutrone. I also think 
the team has a lot of potential; 
the kids have a lot of spirit. I also 
like the UAA conference. Thats 
definitely a plus.
Cutrones familiarity with the 
UAA stems from his previous 
coaching experience as well as 
his educational background. 
During the 1989-90 season, 
Cutrone was head water polo 
coach and assistant swimming 
coach at Johns Hopkins Univer
sity. As a graduate student at 
Emory University (he received 
his masters degree in public 
health from Emory in 1990), he
Kishor K. Rao/Tartan Photographer
rsY Nuieln1 Cilnosn fnhheld4 lnM 4MsYYslo DeCDm1 Aislo4 ms4 :>> 
ACDIoieNla ue C ,Csi ec 4MsY unCY4 Msum zC heu ec ,eunlusChP&
was an assistant swimming 
coach. In each of his four years 
as a Johns Hopkins undergradu
ate, Cutrone qualified for the 
NCAA Division III National 
Championships in the 1,650- 
yard freestyle; he was also cap
tain of the water polo team in his 
senior season. Cutrone took on 
the head coach job at Bishop 
Ford High School in Brooklyn, 
New York, during the 198687 
school year.
Cutrone describes the transi
tion to Carnegie Mellon as, Hectic, Ive only been here about 10 
days, and weve already started 
practice. The captains have 
helped a lot as far as getting 
things organized. The only real 
drawback is that my wife is still 
in New York and wont be here 
until December.
In addition to his duties as 
swimming coach, Cutrone also 
holds the position of Aquatics 
Director, which involves sched
uling of lifeguards and other 
aspects of the day-to-day opera
tion of the pool.
V-ball nets 
weekend 
tourney win
By CORRI METZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The CMU womens volley
ball team finally showed ev
eryone else something that 
they have known all season: 
the Tartans have the skill 
and determination to be 
champions. They proved 
themselves this weekend at 
the Washington and Lee Uni
versity Tournament in Lex
ington, Virginia, as they de
feated Washington and 
Jefferson for the tournament 
championship.
On Friday night, the Tar
tans took on Goucher College 
in their first match. They won 
the first game decisively, 15- 
2. In the second game, sev
eral substitutions were made, 
and the Tartans fell 12-15. 
Coach Charlotte Fisher re
placed her starting line-up 
for the third game, and the 
team won again, 15-9. Coach 
Fisher said it was evident in 
the first match that the team 
was pullingtogether and com
municating better.
In the second Friday night 
match, the Tartans defeated 
Wingate College in two 
games, 153 and 157. Sat
urday morning, the team split
with Washington and 
Jefferson, a team which had 
defeated them in dual meet 
action earlier in the week 
and which they would later 
face in the tournament fi
nals.
After losing to Washing
ton and Jefferson, the Tar
tans rebounded to beat tour
nament host Washington 
and Lee, 15-6 and 16-14, 
and Meredith, 15-5 and 15- 
5. Fisher credited big plays 
from various individuals for 
sparking the rest of the 
teams. In one instance, the 
team was playing fairly well 
againstWashingtonandLee. 
Then, according to Fisher, 
(Sophomore) Jenn New just 
cranked the ball. The whole 
team got excited and began 
to play more consistently. 
Passing andservingbothimproved.
In the finals, the Tartans 
faced Washington and 
Jefferson, a team that had 
defeated them twice in the 
past week. Junior Lisa 
Leonardo told the team, 
Third time is a charm. This 
is the one that counts. The 
Tartans won in two games, 
15-11 and 15-6. Leonardo, 
bhnC4n 4nn jO>pp1 ,Con t9
Womens soccer triumphs on road, 2-0
By KELLY STERLING
Tartan Staffwriter
The womens soccer team took on 
Allegheny College and Swarthmore 
College this week with both games re
sulting in shutouts; unfortunately, only 
one was in favor of the Tartans.
Saturday afternoon found the Tar
tans in Philadelphia taking on 
Swarthmore College. The game started 
out evenly matched, but slowly Carn
egie Mellon began to hustle a little 
more and work a little harder to gain 
control, eventually coming away with a 
2-0 win.
We didnt practice Friday and had a 
long bus ride, but we still came out with 
a lot of intensity from the start, said 
sophomore striker Julie Paul.
The Tartans efforts paid off as the 
nine-minute mark ofthe first half; fresh
man striker Kathy Watson scored to 
put CMU on the board first. The offense was able to put a lot of pressure on 
their goal, resulting in two good goals, 
said senior midfielder Elizabeth Zika.
Things really began to come together 
for the Tartans in the second half, as 
they dominated for the entire period. 
Swarthmore hardly had any shots on 
goal as CMU controlled the match for 
the duration.
Our defense was really strong in 
shutting them [Swarthmore] out, said 
Zika.
CMUs second goal came as a result of 
a comer kick by Zika approximately 15 
minutes into the half. The teams battled 
to a scoreless draw the rest of the way, 
giving the Tartans the 2-0 win.
I think our team is improving as the 
season progresses, says sophomore 
Diantha Korzun, Today was a great 
example of our potential, a great week
end for picking up the morale and ca
maraderie of the team.
Added Paul, No one gave in. It was
really a well-deserved win.
On Thursday, CMU was up against 
the Gators of Allegheny College, a tough 
team that seems to always find its way 
to the Division III playoffs. Allegheny 
was a big game for us, commented 
Paul. They have a history of going to 
the national playoffs and we really 
wanted to play well, which we did.
In the first half of the game, CMU 
seemed to be hustling and passing well, 
but just couldnt seem to put the ball in 
the net. Allegheny was having the same 
problems, and the game was pretty 
evenly matched.
That is, until the 21:20 mark when 
Allegheny scored on a good hard shot 
into the upper right comer of the goal. 
For much of the remainder of the half, 
neither CMU nor Allegheny was able to 
get things going because of the unusu
ally frequent calling of penalties. 
Then, with 4:15 left, the Gators got 
bhnC4n 4nn KSL31 ,Con t9
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Editor 
Knlsei Ysacsnhani Lhs.CAnum JsIC WtF umMCiu4 
umn ,ieoin44 ec Cl >hhnomnl8 CuuCDIniP
Tartan football obliterates Chicago, 37-0
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The C might stand for Con
fused.
The University of Chicago foot
ball team threw its C-Bone of
fense and C-4 defense at Car
negie Mellon in Saturdays Uni
versity Athletic Association con
test; but a stingy Tartan defense 
snapped Chicagos wishbone, 
and the Tartan offense exploded 
for five touchdowns en route to a 
37-0 blowout.
We were a time bomb waiting 
to go off, said freshman quar
terback Chris Dee.
It was only a matter of time 
before the offense was going to 
click, added senior quarterback 
Sam Mangano.
How total was the Tartans 
domination? They compiled 547 
total yards to the Maroons 179. 
Tartan quarterbacks threw for 
a combined 145 yards and rushed 
for 96, while Chicagos Joseph 
McCoy, the key to the C-Bone, 
completed one pass for 10 yards 
and gained only 31 yards on the
ground.
Possibly the most telling num
bers were 37 and 0. As a de
fense, the best thing you can do 
is shut a team out, said line
backer Mike Hession. As long 
as they dont score, you dont 
lose.
Chicagos C-4 defense de
pends on winning the line of 
scrimmage, and having the line
backers read and make proper 
adjustments to the oppositions 
offense. The Maroons were able 
to do neither.
The Tartan front five won the 
battle of the trenches, despite 
playing without injured AllAmerican tackle Chuck Jack
son. They did an outstanding 
job, said offensive coordinator 
Rich Erdelyi. They were welldrilled and well-prepared for the 
game.
And a relentless Tartan rush
ing attack never allowed 
Chicagos defenders to read and 
adjust, amassing 402 yards and 
four touchdowns.
But the most exciting touch
down came through the air,
when Dee hooked up with sopho
more receiver Jarrod Siket on a 
43 yard pass in the second quar
ter. It was Dees first touchdown 
pass as a Tartan, and Sikets 
first careertouchdown reception.
About the only bright spot for 
the Maroons was punter Jeff 
Stolte, who averaged 48 yards 
on eight kicks, including a beau
tiful 70-yarder late in the game. 
Stolte caused problems for Tar
tan punt returners all afternoon, 
including two fumbles.
He was able to get good height 
on the ball when he had the 
wind at his back, said head 
coach Rich Lackner. Then, 
when the wind was in his face 
and we moved up, he was able to 
line-drive them over our heads 
really well.
The Tartans jumped out to an 
early 7-0 lead on a 15-yard run 
by senior halfback Drew 
Pizzurro. The touchdown capped 
off a four-play, 41-yard drive on 
the Tartans first possession of 
the game, and extended their 
NCAA Division III consecutivegame scoring record to 179
games.
Following Sikets touchdown, 
on the Tartans very next pos
session, they put the ball in to 
make the score 21-0 going into 
halftime. This time, Dee scored 
on a one-yard keeper, finishing 
off an impressive 83-yard drive.
The drive was keyed by a 25- 
yard run by senior halfback Greg 
Marmol, and short runs by 
Pizzurro, Dee, and sophomore 
fullback Brian Horton. Horton 
was third in rushing with 57 
yards on the day.
Mangano returned to start the 
second half, and marched the 
Tartans downfield 41 yards on 
their first possession to give the 
Tartans a 28-0 lead. Clutch run
ning by Horton, who picked up 
10 yards on third and three, kept 
the drive going and moved the 
Tartans down to the Chicago 
eight yardline.
Three plays later, Mangano 
followed a powerful surge by the 
Tartan offensive line, and dove 
over the top. It was his second 
rushing touchdown of the sea
son, and the Tartans sixth.
A 30-yard field goal by junior 
Fred Harding made the score 
31-0 with just over 14 minutes 
left. But the Tartan offense 
wasnt through. Freshman quar
terback Matt Neiss entered the 
game, and put together an eight-' 
play, 80-yard scoring drive.
Neiss was three of three for 39 
yards, including a 21-yarder to 
freshman tight end Chris 
Habeger that gave the Tartans 
first and goal at the Chicago 10. 
Two plays later, Neiss became 
the third Tartan quarterback to 
score on the ground, poweringin 
from one yard out.
It was nice that we got our 
freshmen quarterbacks a chance 
to show what they could do, 
said Lackner. They came in and 
performed very well.
The win boosted the Tartans 
overall record to 2-1 (2-0 UAA), 
and provided them with confi
dence and momentum going into 
Saturdays 1:30 matchup with 
the Duquesne Dukes.
Youve got to feel good about 
beating Chicago, said Dee. Al
legheny is a memory.

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 September 1991
CMU tennis teams struggle Mens soccer team finishes 
at Case Western tournament weekend road trip with two ties
By DARYL DAVIS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons mens and 
womens tennis teams had a busy 
schedule this weekend. The 
womens team had two tourna
ments, one against Grove City 
at Grove City on Thursday and 
another at Case Western Re
serve University in Cleveland. 
The tournament in Cleveland 
was a three-team competition; 
the men faced Case Western and 
Walsh while the women went up 
against Case Western and the 
University of Rochester. It was 
a tough weekend for the teams; 
the Tartans won only one of the 
five head-to-head competitions, 
but even those lost were very 
close.
The womens team trounced 
Case Western by the score of 8-
1. All three doubles teams came 
out on top in their matches. The 
team of sophomore Whitney 
Weber and senior Silvina Candia 
played a tough match against 
Case Westerns team of Dalia 
Elkairi and Sarita Gangadharappa, eventually winning 
in three sets. The final score was
46, 6-1, 10-8. All the other 
matches ofthe tournament were
SPORTS IN SEASON
Touch Football
Commissioners
Majors  Buddy Feitt, x5371
Intermediate  John Supp,
x8699
Minors  Mike Gryzwinski, 
361-6613
Women Only  Molly 
McDermott, 682-3529 
Standings are posted on the 
IM bulletin board; please play 
all games as scheduled. The IM 
department is still looking for 
touch football officials.
Co-rec Volleyball
Commissioner 
Jenni Lee, x4019 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. Team 
standings will be posted on the 
IM bulletin board. Please play 
,all games as scheduled.
Cross Country
Commissioner 
John Supp, x8699 
The 1991 Intramural Cross 
Country Meet will be held on 
Wednesday, October 2, at 4:30
quick, two-set matches.
Both the mens and the 
womens teams had very close 
contests that were decided by 
just one game. The men fell to 
Walsh by the score of 5-4 and 
the women fell to Grove City 
and the University of Rochester 
also by 5-4 scores.
In the mens matches, sopho
more Dan Schmidt, freshmen 
Bill Mathey and Eric Rying and 
the doubles team of sophomore 
John Muza and Schmidt were 
winners. Schmidt won his 
singles match by default, and 
the other winners put their op
ponents away in decisive twoset matches. Senior Steve 
McMenamin had a close match 
with Walshs Chris Muller. The 
match was decided by a thirdset tiebreaker, with Muller 
squeaking by 6-4, 4r-6, 67.
In the womens tournament 
with Grove City, Weber, fresh
men Kinga Czerska and 
Stephanie Kukura, and the 
doubles team of sophomore 
Sharyn Rotunno and Kukura all 
picked up wins for the Tartans. 
Rotunno and Kukura had an 
inspired comeback after a firstset loss to beat the Grove City 
team of Amy Wherley and Kelly
pm on Flagstaff Hill. Faculty, 
staff, and students are all in
vited to run the 1.9-mile race. 
Team and individual entries are 
being accepted  teams of five 
for men, four for women. A spe
cial heat for women only will be 
held at this event.
Water Polo
Commissioner 
Mike Kappus, x5302 
Please check the IM bulletin 
board for pool practice times. 
Certified lifeguards will be on 
duty for all scheduled water polo 
matches.
Chess
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Please check the IM bulletin 
board for match dates. Play all 
matches as scheduled and re
port your scores to the commis
sioner.
Tennis
Commissioner 
Jon Walsh, x4656 
Standings will be posted on 
the IM bulletin board. Please
Erikson with a final score of 3-6,
6-4, 6-4. The other competitors 
took their matches in two sets.
In the womens competition 
with the University of Roches
ter, Czerska won her singles 
match against Rochesters 
Sabina Basovsky, 6-3, 6-4. All 
three doubles teams  Weber 
and Candia, Kinga Czerska and 
freshman Monika Czerska, and 
Rotunno and Kukura  were 
able to come out on top in two 
sets.
The mens team did not fare 
as well in their second tourna
ment of the weekend. They fell 
to Case Western 6-1 with two of 
the doubles matches going un
finished. Mathey won his match 
when opponent Amit Hampel 
retired in the second set. The 
doubles teams of sophomore Alan 
Battle and Mathey and Muza 
and Schmidt did not finish their 
matches.
The women continue their sea
son when they face Waynesburg 
College today at 4 pm, followed 
by weekend matches at Penn 
State and Gannon University. 
The men are off until the Rolex 
Eastern Division III champion
ships at Swarthmore College on 
October 4th and 5th.
play two singles matches and 
one doubles match at the same 
time at the courts. Schedules 
can be picked up at the IM office; 
please report your winning 
scores to the commissioner or to 
the IM office.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Six-Person Volleyball
Commissioner 
Judi Bozor, x5501 
Entries are due Thursday, 
October 3, at 4:30 pm.
Bowling
Commissioner 
Jon Walsh, x4656 
Entries are due Thursday, 
October 3, at 4:30 pm.
Soccer
Commissioners 
Majors  not yet assigned 
Intermediate  not yet 
assigned
Minors  Adam Glass, x4231 
Women Only  Molly 
McDermott, 682-3529 
Entries are due Thursday, 
October 10, at 4:30 pm.
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Sports Editor
The standard sports clich is 
that a tie is like kissing your 
sister. So far, the sports world 
has never quite expanded on 
what youd have to kiss to simu
late two ties, but head mens 
soccer coach Nick Gaudioso has 
a pretty good idea what it feels 
like. Gaudiosos Tartans went
arngi MrraoUvv
MAJORS
PiKA A30
ATO20
Black Mafia10
Bruisers01
GSIA Gators01
Beta02
SEI Renegades 
INTERMEDIATE
02
DIVISION A
SAE30
Onyx20
C-Men10
Future Corporate...11
ATO*12
Zoo A02
Apathy03
DIVISION B
USS Carnegie30
ASA20
Heavy & The Guys20
Barcrawlers01
Phi Kap A02
Kappa Sig A02
Capitalist Pigs02
DIVISION C
Beta B Like Mike20
NP Completions20
TX Penguins1O
Shirley Surehands11
Klngsmen11
Phi Kap B01
Team Black*02
DU A 
MINORS
03
DIVISION A
Sig Tau20
Athletic Supporters10
DU B21
Venom11
Almost Done02
Fly Navy02
DIVISION B
Helpers20
Kappa Sig B20
Green Aces11
on the road this weekend and 
came back with a pair of 1-1 
ties.
You dont feel your best, but 
with two games in two days with 
six hours on the road and the 
kind of injuries weve had ... it 
came out kind of good, said 
Gaudioso.
In Fridays game against 
Washington & Lee, senior Rob 
Schaeffer provided the Tartans
JGBD01
Juan Valdez01
TX Randall02
DIVISION C
DTD20
ECE Drams20
SAE A11
Mr. Softee's01
Mobsters01
TX Underground02
DIVISION D
Sirbu's20
PiKA C10
Beta Wayward Sons11
RRR Roosters11
Tac Nukes01
Pioneers02
DIVISION E
KDR10
GNC Supplements10
PiLam10
Schlag Inmates11
CIA01
Zoo B02
WOMEN ONLY
Spirit10
Stephanie's Team10
Dee Gee01
D Navy W01
grtyPg brvvPhoUvv
MAJORS
Rude Dogs11
The Side Oouuttts"11
Networkers
INTERMEDIATE
11
DIVISION A
SAE A10
Pioneers A21
Cheese Blintz11
FRINGE Spike Demons01
USS Carnegie01
DIVISION B
6 Pack & Coolers20
Jay West's Team11
Sudsuckers11
International Club01
scoring punch; senior Young, 
Kang did the honors in 
Saturdays contest at Johns 
Hopkins University.
We had good chances to put ! 
both games away, but we had 
some bad luck, said Gaudioso.
The Tartans return home this 
weekend, playing Rochester on 
Friday night at 7:30 pm and 
Brandeis University on Sunday 
afternoon at 1:30 pm.
Treehuggers*03
DIVISION C
KSA A20
Pioneers B11
Backlash11
Shirley Stoppers*02
Civ-E Sluggers*02
MINORS
DIVISION A
ASA B20
SAE C10
AIESEC Sports Co.11
West Wing Warriors01 -,
Sig Tau Jammers*02 ~
DIVISION B
Smashers10
Chinese Stud Ass'n11
The Lucky Sevens.11
SAE B01
ASAC*02
DIVISION C
Super Johnsons10
Toms Team10
Sig Tau Hammers11
3 West/Roselawn11
SDC02
DIVISION D
ASA A20
Green Aces10
Miasma10 '
Something Nasty02
Zoo02 '
DIVISION E
Sig Tau Slammers20
FRINGE Point Powd.11
Who Cares11
Mathletes01
Pioneers A01
DIVISION F
KSA B20
Phi Upsilon11
Best of The West*12
Doherty B01
Chutes & Ladders 0 2
?Team has been removed from 
play under the new forfeit rule.
IM News
IM Scoreboard
Attention Foreign Students 
.............

International Student Job Fair j 
Wednesday, October 23, 1991 
Washington, DC
The American University in Washington, DC is hosting the 2nd Annual Job Fair devoted 
to foreign students. This is an excellent opportunity for foreign students to meet 
international employers offering home country employment or practical opportunities. 
Foreign Students who are currently enrolled full time at Carnegie Mellon University have 
been invited to attend the Job Fair.
SOME OF THE CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS...3 M JOHNSON AND JOHNSONAT&T MOTOROLAAMOCO CORP. NATIONAL STARCH AND CHEMICAL COMPANYARCO PRICE WATERHOUSEARTHUR D. LriTLE MANAGEMENT EDUCATION INSTITUTE PROCTER AND GAMBLE, LATIN AMERICAARTHUR ANDERSON & CO. EXXONNORTHERN TELECOM AND MANY MORE...
 Registration is open to only those foreign students who are Juniors, Seniors, or Graduate 
students currently enrolled full time at Carnegie Mellon University.
 A completed CMU registration form, an American University registration form and 
$20.00 fee are required to attend the Job Fair (The fee pays for your roundtrip bus 
transportation to American University in Washington, DC).
 A bus pass and CMU photo ID will be required to board the Job Fair Bus.
 Registration is limited.
 Registration Deadline is Friday, October 11,1991 at 5:00 P.M.
COMPLETE INFORMATION AND REGISTRATION MATERIALS ARE 
AVAILABLE IN THE CAREER CENTER, WARNER HALL, ROOM 19.
QUESTIONS??? Contact John Michalenko 268-2064 
Sponsored by Career Center & The Office of International Education
Carnerie Mellon
orOREo? UPrOMING EVENTo? 
GYM & POOL HOURo?
Don't be ignorant!
GET IN THE LOOP!!!
Keep track of the latest 
athletic department news by 
subscribing to the
official.athletic-dept-news
computer bulletin board.
There's no excuse for not 
knowing.
SUBSCRIBE TODAY!!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 September 199113
By JASON WYSE
Tartan Junior Staff writer
Carnegie Mellons cross country 
teams faced stiff competition this week
end at Indiana University of Pennsyl
vania, but both teams fared well in the 
overall standings. The mens A team, 
running against area schools such as 
Indiana, Lockhaven, and Shippensberg, 
ced third overall out of 15 teams. 
Carnegie Mellons B team won the
Cross country teams shine at IUP Invitational
B-team race, and placed fifth overall. 
The womens team won first place 
among the Division III teams at the 
meet and took sixth place overall out of 
14 teams.
Both coaches were very pleased with 
their teams performances. Gary 
Meckley, coach of the mens team, said, 
Im impressed by how this team runs 
each course intelligently, more so than 
any other team Ive had. I believe thats 
why were doing so well this year.
Junior Brad Shapiro was Carnegie 
Mellons first-place runner with a time 
of 26:52, good for tenth place overall, 
freshman John Bums came in second 
with a time of27:30, followed by fresh
man Scott Perfater (27:31), and juniors 
Rich Hayes (27:34) and Scott Phillips 
(27:36). The teams strength was evi
dent by its ability to place highly in 
spite of the fact that its first and second 
finishers from last week were unable to 
compete at Indiana.
Head womens coach Dario Donatelli, 
also praised his teams showing. This 
was our first big meet of the season, he 
said. I think some inexperience showed 
through, but the team held their own 
against some very strong competition. 
Senior Carolyn Lowe was the firstplace runner on the womens team; her 
time of 18:36 won second place overall. 
Junior Laura Sibley finished second on 
the team with a time of 21:07. Junior 
Wendy Evans won third on the team
with a time of 21:45, followed by sopho
more Aliza Hildebrand (22:23) and se
nior Emily Burke (22:35).
This Saturday, the mens team hosts 
Geneva College at 11 am on Flagstaff 
Hill. The womens team stays on the 
road, travelling to the Dickinson Col
lege Invitational. The next home meet 
for the womens team will be the Uni
versity Athletic Association champion
ships, which will be held on Saturday, 
October 26.
Volleyball team proves 
potential in win over W&J
jO>pp1 cieY ,Con tt
who led the Tartans with 40 kills and was named 
to the all-tournament team, said The attitude 
and the momentum were there.
Fisher agreed. Volleyball is a game of momen
tum, she said. Washington and Jefferson is a 
very consistent team. If they get ahead, they 
never let up. My team just didnt let them get any 
momentum in the finals.
We wanted to win more than Washington and 
Jefferson did, claimed junior Ann Feng. We 
finally felt comfortable with each other this week
end; everything was a lot less tense afid we de
cided to have some fun.
The CMU victory was due to great play by the 
whole team. Leading the squad offensively were 
,eonardo, junior Elizabeth Rowlands, who re:orded 30 kills despite illness during the tourna
ment, junior Lisa Devlin (47 assists) and Feng (24 
assists). The defense was led by Thompson, New,
sophomore Wendy Wasko and junior Joanna 
Downer. The team turned in their best service 
performance of the year, led by New and fresh
man Carolyn Skarada.
Also given credit for the Tartans victory in the 
finals was the CMU mens soccer team, who 
cheered on the volleyball team after playing Wash
ington and Lees soccer team earlier in the day. 
The soccer team helped pull us together as a 
team, said Thompson.
The Tartans have a tough schedule this week, 
playing at Carlow College tonight and traveling to 
the UAA Round Robin Tournament at Washing
ton University in St. Louis this weekend. Our 
new positive attitude will be the most decisive 
factor this weekend in the UAAs, said Thomp
son.
If we keep the same attitude and motivation, 
added Skarada, were going to do well this week
end.
Parity hibernates during 
tonights Bears-Jets matchup
 I would normally expect 
tonights game to be a joke, but 
with Pete Rozelles realized ideas 
of parity within the NFL, one 
has to wonder. The New York 
Jets have many problems, not 
the least of which is the need of 
a leader on the field. Chicago 
;has a decent team that is quickly 
meshing together. Behind Jim 
Harbaugh, the Bears are doing 
little different than from the 
past. I could predict an upset, 
but Ill stick with reality, as de
pressing as it often is, and take 
the Bears, 2710.
There are two very interest
ing match-ups this Sunday. The 
first one brings the aforemen
tioned Bears to Buffalo to take 
on last years Super Bowl run
ners-up. The Bills are quite pos
sibly the strongest team in the 
NFL. Chicago could prove to be 
a contender in the NFC, assum
ing they sustain their play. In 
Chicago, Id be torn. But the
NFL FOOTBALL
by Dave Martin
game is being played in Buffalo. 
Bills 24, Bears 17.
Dallas hosts the New York 
Giants in an important NFC 
East matchup. While it could be 
a battle for third place in the 
conference (placing Washington 
and Phoenix above them), the 
rivalry stirs up a bit of interest. 
The Giants have slipped a bit of 
late, losing games two and three 
by small margins. The Cowboys 
have simply been outclassed the 
last couple of weeks. Look for 
the Giants to make a quarter
back change if things dont turn
THE RIDE BOARD
This year The Tartan will start providing a new service to the campus 
community  a ride board.
The ride board will run before breaks and will be a place for students to find 
and offer rides to their destinations
We will accept notices from any member of the campus community with valid 
CMU ID and print it free of charge.
We encourage submissions to the ride board in the following catagories:
Rides Offered 
Rides Needed 
Share a Cab 
Ticket Exchange
The second ride board will run on September 30. Deadline for submissions is 
Thursday, September 26 at 5 pm. Submissions must be made to The Tartan 
office in person. IDs will be checked.
Participants assume full responsibility for rides, and arrange them at their own risk.
Please see the first ride board on page 10
Soccer splits shutouts
KSL31 cieY ,Con 11
on the board again with se
nior goalkeeeper Elena 
Chartoif down to make the 
score 2-0 Allegheny. That 
goal proved to be the end of 
the Srst-half scoring.
They are a very aggres
sive and well-disciplined 
team, but we held our own, 
said Zika. I was really im
pressed with the character 
our team showed.
The second half of the game 
went much like the first. The 
only goal by either team came
at 22:27 when Allegheny scored 
around Chartoff, who had been 
knocked down on the play.
Despite the loss, the Tartans 
showed good teamwork, and cre
ated many opportunities that 
they just werent able to capital
ize on. Furthermore, despite the 
three goals, Chartoff made sev
eral good saves.
My team really impressedme 
against Allegheny, said junior 
sweeper Sonya Chmielnicki, 
They expected to demolish us 
and we made them work for ev
ery ball. We really came into our
own in this game, despite the 
results.
Added Paul, The game was 
much closer than the score 
indicates. We played even 
better than we did against 
Slippery Rock, and we shut 
them out. The Tartans de
feated Slippery Rock Univer
sity at home last Saturday 
by a score of 4r-0.
The womens soccer team 
returns to action this Satur
day at 7 pm with a home 
match against California 
University of Pennsylvania.
Sports Shorts
around and soon. Giants 17, 
Cowboys 13.
In the rest of the NFL: New 
Orleans over Atlanta at Fulton 
County Stadium; Kansas City 
by a couple in San Diego; Minne
sota over Denver in Minneapo
lis; Seattle, hopefully easily, over 
Indianapolis; Miami in a decent 
game over the Jets; Detroit to 
eke out a victory over Tampa 
Bay; the L.A. Raiders in a mild 
upset over the Niners; the Rams 
over the Packers; and lastly, 
Phoenix to destroy New En
gland.
The AFC Central has the week 
off, so I have no reason to blast 
Bubby Brister. Although I won
der if hes going to watch the 
games Sunday to learn some
thing about quarterbacking a 
football team.
Tartan staffwriter Dave Mar
tin is a sophomore psychology 
major.
Mens Lacrosse Downs Pitt
The Carnegie Mellon mens 
lacrosse club started its fall sea
son with a 9-7 scrimmage vic
tory over the University of Pitts
burgh on Saturday. Senior Rob 
Kendall led the way with four 
goals; senior Todd Bredbenner 
added two more goals, and se
niors Steve Ramey and John 
Seekings, and grad student 
Bayard Johnson notched single 
scores.
The club will return to action 
Saturday with a match at Slip
pery Rock University.
UAA Athletes of the Week
Senior sweeper Alan Horn was 
named the UAA Athlete of the 
Week for mens soccer for the 
week ending September 16. The 
Tartans defense allowed only 
one goal in. two games on the 
week as the team raised its 
record to 1-2.
Rugby Splits With Allegheny
The Carnegie Mellon rugby
Seth Redmore/Tartan Photographer 
Knlsei mis4 Un-hsl heeI4 el C4 4nlsei Bnsh RCh4ClsC csin4 C ,C44 aNislo 
KCuNiaC8d4 iNoA8 YCuDm CoCsl4u >hhnomnl8 ehhnonP
club split its season opener 
against Allegheny College on 
Saturday. Carnegie Mellon 
notched a 20-0 win in the A 
game, but lost a close 9-8 decision in the B contest. Carnegie 
Mellon hosts Altoona this Sat- * 
urday at the intramural field; 
the game is scheduled to start at 
1 pm.
classified
ADOPTION
Loving, secure, married, Caucasian couple 
wants very much to give your newborn a 
warm and happy home. Expenses paid. 
For more information call collect after 6pm 
(814) 833-821.5.
VOLUNTEER
They left with a College Diploma... They 
returned with: a new language, under
standing of a new culture, international 
experience, a world of opportunity at home. 
Come hear Returned Peace Corps Volun
teers speak about their experiences: Mon
day, Sept. 30, 7:00-9:00 p.m., Room 13 
SRibo. Interviews: Oct. 21, Register at the 
Career Center.
JOBSCONT'D...
JOBS
STUDENT LOANS No income restrictions. 
Long Term and low interest loans avail
able. Call (201) 702-0117.
Child care / light housekeeping. Part 
time. Squirrel Hill. Near transportation. 
Non-smoker. References. 521-4032.
ADDRESSERS WANTED immediately! No 
experience necessary. Process FHA mort
gage refunds. Work at home. Call 1-405- 
321-3064.
Driver needed for deli delivery serving 
South Side & Oakland. Have own vehicle 
& valid driver's license & be available from 
11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Call 431-1324 
before 11:00 a.m. weekdays.
TRAVEL CONT'D...
Earn free travel!! with the fewest sales to! 
Jamaica, Cancn, Bahamas plus earn extra 
$$$ Sun Splash Tours 1-800-426-7710. 
Free Travel, Cash, and Excellent Business 
Experience!! Openings available for indi-1 
viduals or student organizations to pro-, 
mote the country's most successful SPRINCJ 
BREAK tours. Call Inter-Campus Programs 
1-800-327-6013
Free Spring Break Trip & Cash! Cancn,; 
Jamaica, Bahamas! Sell trips on campus 
and earn free trip & bonus cash! Four 
seasons 1-800-331-3136.
Mise
Club Leaders for Young Judea. Respon
sible, creative, likes working with children. 
September - April employment, Sunday 
meeting. Salary+expenses. Licensed Driver, 
over 21. Call Y.J. Regional Office - 521 - 
4877.
Five (5) openings in our convenient 
Shadyside office, raising funds for various 
police organizations. Salary to start. Parttime, evenings. Flexible schedules to 
accomodate students. CALL: 363-4953 for 
appointment.
Fast Fundraiser $1000 in 1 Week. Greeks, 
Clubs, or ANYONE. No Investment. (800) 
748-6817 Ext. 50.
| Let the Classifieds work for you! 1
1.LI29
Travel Sales Representative. STS, the 
leader in collegiate travel, needs motivated 
individuals and groups to promote Winter/ 
Spring Break trips. For information call 
Student Travel Services, Ithaca, NY at 1- 
800-648-4849.
Study Abroad In Australia - Information 
on semester, year, graduate, summer, and 
internship programs in Perth, Townsville, 
Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at 
$3520. Call!-800-878-3696.
Campus Representatives needed. Earn 
free trip and big commissions by selling 
Cancn, Mexico. .For more information 
call toll free at 800-755-7996 or in Con
necticut at 203-975-8833.
FOOLPROOF FUNDRAISING Raise $500 
... $1000 ... $1500 For your fraternity, 
sorority, team or other campus organiza
tion. Absolutely no investment required!,' 
Act now for the chance to win a Caribbean 
cruise and fabulous prizes! CALL 1-800- 
950-8472, ext. 50.
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$3.00 / wk
21-50 words......$5.00 / wk
50-100 words.....$8.00 / wk
Classifieds must be paid by 
cash or check before the first 
scheduled run date.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

YOURS: TOURS
YOU? FRANCE? OUI!
CARNEGIE MELLONS 
CENTRE DE TOURS
CHECK IT OUT
INFORMATION MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, 25 SEPTEMBER 
ADAMSON WING, BAKER HALL 
5:30 - 6:30 PM
WHATS NEDED TO GO?
GOOD ACADEMIC STANDING
LANGUAGE SKILLS EQUIVALENT TO ONE YEAR OF 
COLLEGE FRENCH 
SOPHOMORE STATUS (BUT FRESHMEN ARE
ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND SO THEY CAN PLAN 
FOR NEXT YEAR!)
NO APPLICATION FEE
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR NEXT SPRING : 
OCT. 15,1991
APPLICATION FORMS AVAILABLE IN THE 
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION
219 SMITH HALL

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

I am most interested in the work of risk-taking 
writers. They have the ability to cut to their mental cores. 
When authors lack this 1 feel it like cotton in the throat;
words ring false in its absence. These thoughts came to me
while 1 reviewed the material for this first issue. What struck
me about all of the pieces was that the writing was fresh; that 
the authors were not afraid to speak in unique voices, 
digging for some new passages in artistic truth.
One of my great hopes for this years Dossier is that 
writers from many departments will submit. I'd like to 
consider Dossier a school-wide open creative forum, but 
can only do so if 1 have the material in my hands.
Tamara Lebft
copyright  1991 THE TARTAN
r. v*.

---------------------------------------------------

e o
til SS<** 25$ fts O5 3 S
Sos^ 
'y"* ft o
* ft ^ <* ? Ef ** !-? *-l
>g|g 
 <S?2.3 3 
>sr2^i n crr? 
r*
*4

*** s^s-ft 
i??ii 
&osi?sio 
98jl fi8^ B2&s &S
So,/;?o **3 ts n g^rfci g>s|z^a
<OPLa I 
&5.ils
l!Tsw
^ 1 e, i sr** 01 a| . A c  *> ^
Hise
  ^S* ff
' r* a 3 . O 010 o 
S *?? o g I''9/193SH j
*18 SrrtS.i; o
g Um T1 O <*
& g> v
s&:*54> S*-i*< ^ K<jg 's'
Sfl o...
*-Sm
gs*8|%i1mr rl/1 
g*a ** H.a
Mis
*? sO t J rj 2.Z3 &5>* - ^3 o g*
?033> ***(&
& 
ps
ep
r+iB*
light & dark.
letters on a page are black and white,but do we 
see things in such a clear way? Or is it really in 
the shades of grey where we can find the meaning 
or context of the words? In reading and looking 
we see black and white simultaneously. Through 
this gaze our perceptions are creating the thrid 
element of grey where potentialities abound. It is 
the willingness to not only look but to actively 
respond to the contrasts and harmonies of light 
and dark that we must manifest in our lives.
Hans Wang
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Forgetting James Dean
words Kristin Pape
design Jennifer Farrell
Bigoted
words Paige Malerman
design Bill C. Sabram
Puttin on Pop
words Erika Gentry
design Meng Mantasoot
Bathtub
words Tripp Goldsberry
design Glenn Klaus
Shower Reflections
words Khristina Mayes
design Jana Paquette
I-,}' I! Sill

---------------------------------------------------

Forgetting James Dean
Kristin Pape
tjjrb
Bca and me were real hot for James Dean until we found 
out he was already dead. Bea said there was no sense dreaming 
over a man you had no chance even meeting, so we decided 
wed best just forget him and move on. We folded up all the 
black and while posters from the Wallmart  James leaning 
against a brick wall, James leaning against a lamp post in the 
fog, James leaning against an old-looking car  and laid them 
to rest at the bottom of a shoe box. We had a small funeral for 
him on Bcas front porch, because Bcas mom Rena said 
funerals arc the best way to help let go of somebody good.
Rena made lemonade and biscuits, and let us bury the shoe box 
under the porch, behind the flower garden. She even made a 
short speech about how he was a good actor, and probably a real 
nice person, too.
Rena is a very good mother, I think, because she doesnt 
ever yell at Bca, or make her wear dresses to school every day. 
She never mentions grades. She is tall and has long hair, like a 
TV star, and her facc is very nice, with no moles or anything. 
She always smells like cinnamon. I think of my own mother, 
small, mousy, always tired. She is a good mother, too, but she 
is not like Rena. She is not glamorous like Rena. She doesnt 
wear dresses or high heels, and her hair is cut short and close to 
her head. She doesnt like Rena; every morning, when I leave 
for Beas house, she presses her lips together and shakes her 
head.
Dont let that woman smoke where you can breath it, 
she always says. Which is unfair, because Rena only smokes 
cvciy once in a while, and even then only on the porch. Rena 
dccidcd lliat after the funeral would be a good time to catch up 
on our tanning. She said theres almost nothing as important as 
having nice-looking skin, so Bca and me put on our bathing 
suits and wet our hair down, and the three of us arranged 
ourselves on beach towels on the front porch. I lay on my 
stomach, my face resting against my arm on a thin sheet of 
sweat. Even with my eyes closed, I could see the bright glare of 
the sun. It was good to lie so still, like underwater, with no 
feeling or sound except Renas raspy breathing. We were all 
lying that way when there came a long, low whistle cutting into 
the silence.
I turned around to sec Taybor leaning with his back 
against one of the peeling while porch rails and his eyes all over 
Rena and Bca. He was wearing that grin he gels, his lips curling 
into a deep vcc; he looked more wild animal than person.
Taybor and Rena have been going together for as long as Bea 
and me have been friends  probably longer. Hes always 
pinching Bcas hind end and telling her hes her daddy, all the 
while with a big wide grin across his facc like hes positive we 
believe him. Renas never been married, and nobodys really 
sure exactly who Bcas daddy is. The truth is, sometimes I 
wonder if it isnt Taybor, even though Bca always laughs and 
flips her chin at him when he says it. They both have the same 
shiny black hair and long legs. And sometimes, when shes 
furious, 1 catch Bcas lips curling up just like Taybors, in that 
same vicious smile.
Aint this a picture and a half? Taybor said. He looked 
at me and winked, then let me sec his eyes wander down the 
straps of my bathing suit. I pulled my legs up against my chest 
and folded my arms over my knees, but Taybor just winked 
again.
This is private property, Rena said, but got up to kiss

---------------------------------------------------

him anyway. She was wearing a tiny blue bikini which showed 
off most of her hind end, and Taybor folded his arms around her 
waist and pulled her against him so hard she jumped.
Cut it out, Rena shouted, and smacked his arm.
Hands off the merchandise!
Bca rolled her eyes and nodded her head toward the porch 
door. We hate watching Rena and Taybor go at it. Theyre 
always grabbing and squeezing each other all over the place, not 
even caring whos watching. So Bea jumped up and headed for 
the porch door, slinging her beach towel over her arm.
Sweetheart, Taybor crooncd over Renas shoulder, you 
ever try kissing a older man? He was smiling when he said it, 
but I saw from his eyes he wasnt joking all that much. Bca just 
turned her nose up, flipped the towel over her shoulder like she 
didnt even hear him and let the screen door bang shut behind 
her. There was no way 1 wanted to stand up with dirty old 
Taybor standing right there and me in only a bathing suit two 
years loo small, so I just sat there. Rena and Taybor looked at 
me hugging my knees to my chcsl. Then they looked at each 
other, and Rena started laughing all over again. She thinks 
Taybor is just about the funniest person alive.
I stood up slowly, carefully covering everything I got with 
my beach towel, and moved as fast as I could to the door. 1 
didnt even turn around when I heard Taybors voice; 1 just 
scooted in the house and pushed the door closcd quick as 1 
could. Somewhere on the porch, Rena was laughing again, but 
the sound was tinny and small, like a liny silver bell at the cntl 
of a very long tunnel.
Bca? I said to the empty living room, being quiet 
enough so that Rena and Taybor couldnt hear. Bca didnt 
answer, and I noticed a faint noise that I figured was probably 
Bea in the shower. Bea doesnt like Taybor any more than I do, 
and she usually locks herself out of his way when he comes.
Bea says Taybor has a mean streak that takes up most of him, 
and even when he smiles he looks evil.
I figured Bea would take her time in tlic shower, at least 
until Taybor left, so I followed the leaning blue hallway to her 
bedroom. Just as I was pushing Bcas door open, I noticed 
Renas bedroom door cracked slightly, like an invitation. 1 
decided nobody would mind if I waited in Renas room, but 1 
checked over my shoulder just in ease. The room was cool and 
dark, and smelled like Rena. I left the lights off, enjoying the 
way the shadows made mysterious shapes of the clothes. Rena 
is very fashionable, and has more clothcs than probably anyone. 
I felt nervous and cxcitcd being around Renas empty shoes and 
outfits. I held a silky dress up to my chin and watchcd myself 
move in the mirror, dancing around to make the fabric flutter 
against my thighs. My wide fiat body seemed somehow soft 
and smooth through the silk, and 1 thought for a moment that 
maybe I was beautiful.
I pictured James Dean stepping out of the shadows behind 
me and propping himself up against the closet doorway in a 
cloud of gray fog, a cigarette dangling from between his lips.
His worn leather jacket was sligluly wet with rain, and his 
eyebrows were drawn up in a way that made his eyes look wise 
and sad. The silk dress whispered lightly as I swept across the 
room to where I imagined he was standing. He would take my 
facc in his hands and kiss me tenderly on the nose. He would 
pick me up and carry me back through the shadows to spend 
forever leaning against cars and alley walls in a mist of black 
and white fog.
"Liz," he was about to say, James,"! said, surprised at the 
sound of my own rusty voice. To James, it could be husky and 
sexy.
What arc you doing? Bca asked. She was standing just 
inside the doorway, wrapped tightly in a towel. Her skin 
seemed raw from the hot shower. I carefully laid the dress 
down on Renas bed and shook my head. Bca didnt ask me 
again, and instead brushed past me to pick up the dress. She
dropped her towel and slipped the silky dress over her raised 
arms, letting it slide iLs way down until it settled on her body in 
the most pcrfcct way. Bca is beautiful. She is glamorous like 
Rena, but more mysterious. The soft fabric made her look long 
and shimmering and fragile. I didnt want to move or touch her; 
I felt like one touch from me and she would crumble into fine 
silver dusL
I watchcd Bca gingerly slipping some of Renas gold 
bangles onto her wrists. She turned, eyes half closcd, and thrust 
her arm in my direction. I noticcd her fingers all gracefully 
curving downward, like long wilting petals.
Darling! she purred, and threw her head back.
She glided across the room to the dressing table and seated 
herself regally in the small wire chair. She opened the top 
drawer, which glistened with liny bottles and jars, and suddenly 
the room smelled of apples and flowers. I stood close behind 
Bca, watching over her shoulder as she tried on lipsticks and 
powders in the mirror.
Do you warn to try some? Bea asked, then rubbed her 
lips together lo adjust a bright pink lipstick. I didnt have the 
first idea as lo whal most of ihe creams and powders and 
shimmering liquids were for, and suddenly I felt large and 
clumsy. In ihe mirror, 1 saw myself standing behind Bea, my 
wide, plain face cclipscd by her more beautiful, angular one. I 
wanted to pul my hands on her shoulders, against the soft, 
falling silk of ihe dress, and feel how the bones moved 
underneath. I wantedlo learn how lo sit straight and move 
smoothly.
Im not sure how lo put it on, I said, but Bea was 
already bent over a second drawer. She sat up slowly, holding a 
pair of while lace panties dramatically above her head. I 
reached out to touch them, because I wanted to know what it 
was like lo touch something so nice, but the lace was rough and 
scratchy. I realized that ihe panties belonged to Rena, and drew 
my hand back quickly. I wondered if ihcy felt as 
awful to her when she wore them.
Those feel itchy.
Yes, Bca said, tossing her head and drawing out 
each of her words through tightened lips, like a rich lady. But 
they arc gorgeous. She laughed a little and held them out to 
me with two fingers.
They only ilch cause theyre cheap. Want to try them 
on? With the other hand she was already rooting through the 
drawer to find something for herself. I could not move or speak, 
my longue was heavy as a rock in my moulh. The panties 
looked sofl then, and slightly wom, like the skin of something I 
could climb into and become. My hands moved lo lake them 
from Bcas fingers, but she tossed them back in the drawer 
when she heard the bang of the screen door and the low hum of 
Taybors voice.
Two days after we buried James Dean, Bea tells me she is in 
love with Nally Parker. We sit on Beas yellow canopy bed 
caling apples. When she says this  that she is in love wilh 
Nally  my hands iwist into the matching yellow bedspread 
and my teeth lock against each other. Natly is small and mean, 
like a sharp-beaked bird. His eyes arc black and always 
squinting. He is a year older, already in junior high, and he 
smokes. When Bca and me were younger, Natly would stand 
on the roof of his house and ihrow rocks at us, laughing 
whenever they hit hard enough lo make us cry.
Nattys mean, I say.
Natiys older, Bca says, putting her apple aside.
She leans in closc to me so that I smell the apple on her breath, 
warm and swccl Besides, hes so fine. Bea squeezes my 
knee like I know whal she means.
Nally Parker is nol fine. He is thin and sharp, and his hands are 
always covcrcd wilh diri. He has a foul moulh like Taybor. 
Once I caught him stealing candy at the Seven Eleven. He was 
squalling between the rows of snacks at the back of the store,

---------------------------------------------------

shoving candy bars and packs of gum into his ratty old jeans 
jacket. When he looked up and saw me, he winked and 
puckered his lips in a kiss. He knew I wasnt going lo lell. 
Everyone knows he carries a switchblade as big as your arm. 
am just about to tell Bea all about Naity. I am just aboul lo lell 
her that he is no good. He is not good looking, or smart, or 
cool. But Taybor and Rena are calling from down the hall.
Bea, they yell almost together. We hear them 
laugh, and then Rena says You got some visitor!.
I know it is Natty by the way Beas hands fly up to chcck her 
hair.
Does it look all right? Bea says, and slides off the 
bed. Suddenly I feel my insides expanding, trying 10 push oui 
through my skin and into the air.
Fine, I tell Bea, but she is not listening to me. She 
is checking herself in the dark silver mirror near die door. She 
turns to leave, and suddenly her facc drops into a frown.
I forgot, Liz. Natty and me are going to a movie at 
the mall, she says, holding on to the door frame and iwisling 
around to half-face me. You can come if you want. 
Immediately looks like she wants lo take it back. I conccniraic 
on not crying in front of Bea, even though I can feel my lower 
lip begin to shake. I cannot go home tonight. I cannot be alone 
in the bare white rooms while my mother sleeps in the blue 
light of the television.
No, I say. Ill wait around with Rena till you get
back.
Suddenly she is gone. I hear the bang of the front door, so 
final, like a gun shot. And then nothing but the quiet humming 
of the house. I lean back against the hill of musty yellow 
pillows and think of James Dean and the sticky, cramped 
theater where Bea and me saw Rebel Without a Cause.
He is so fine,'" Bea had said, hunching down in the 
worn velvet seat until she was almost lying down. On the 
screen, James Dean was looking into the distance over our 
heads, like he was searching for someone to talk to. I wanted 
to step into the screen and live in that part of the world where 
everything is clean and easy, and boys like James were nicc to 
plain girls like me. Thai was when Bca and me decided we 
were in love with James Dean.
We had slopped at the Wallmari on the way home 
that night and spent our candy money on posters and key 
chains of James Dean. We combed through Renas magazines, 
looking for photos or news of new movies James was doing. 
We dreamed about maybe meeting him, or even marrying him 
someday. For weeks we were crazy with love.
Then one afternoon, Rena and Bca and me were all 
sitting on the front porch watching the cars on the Interstate and 
drinking sodas. Bea and me told Rena all about James Dean. 
We wanted to try to meet him, maybe at his ncxl film opening. 
Renas mouth twisted up funny, like she was trying to keep 
something from getting out, and then she smiled.
You know James Dean is dead, right?" she said 
after a while. She was very careful not to tease us or make fun 
of us about thinking he was still alive and all. Rena is a good 
person that way, because she always understands how we 
think.
I hear her laughing out on the porch. Taybor is still 
here, and so I decide to stay in Beas room until he leaves.
Then I will go out and sit with Rena. The two of us will watch 
the cars on the Interstate and drink soda until the sun dips down 
behind the road and the air gets too cool for tank lops. I will 
have to go home some time, but not tonight. Tonight I will 
stay here with Rena, and when Bea gels home, the three of us 
will paint each others nails and talk about Natly Parker and 
James Dean.
I think of James Dean to hold me over till Taybor leaves. He 
is near the door and the dark silver mirror, leaning against the 
wall and looking at me with sad eyes.
Its ok, I say to him. Everythings ok.
And it is true. Everything is ok tonight. Outside, the 
crickets are starling to make their rolling chirps. The warm 
smell of pot roast and ihe clinking of supper dishes seems to 
conic from everywhere at once. The street feels small and close 
and per feet. All the families breathe together. Like being 
underwater, like seaweed. Im slowly rocked by the soft 
breathing of all Hie families on Hayflower street.
I wake up lo the sound of the shower. The crickets 
have stopped, and the light from the windows is strange gray. 
For a minute, I do not know how long I have been asleep, 
whether it is early morning or evening. Bea is not back; her 
coal is still gone from the yellow wooden coat rack in the 
corncr. My legs arc shaky when I walk down the hall toward 
the darkened living room. Renas bikini hangs on the door to 
the bathroom. She is washing off the suntan oil from this 
afternoon. Ii is slill evening.
I pad to the front door and carefully pull the shade 
from the liny box window. Taybor is sitting on the front porch 
with a beer, his legs propped up on the rail like he owns it Hes 
got Randy Travis on ihe radio and he bobs his head in time to 
the music. Soon he will leave like he always does, in a puff of 
motorcycle dusL
I decidc lo wait for Rena in her room. I want to try 
out some of the lipsticks and powders in the bureau. I will learn 
to use them tonight, when no one is watching me in case I do it 
wrong. Bca is lucky to have Rena as a mother, I think, walking 
slowly back down the hallway. My own mother doesnt wear 
makeup, and wont even let me shave my legs or date boys yet. 
But Rena is different.
This time I turn on ihe lights in Renas room. It does 
not look as strange or interesting in the bright light. It reminds 
me of Bcas room, where everything matches. I sit in the small 
wire scat at the dressing table and look at myself in the round 
mirror. My face is wide and flat, like a moon hanging in the 
middle of ihe pcrfcci blue room behind me. I want to touch 
everything here. I get up from the wire seat and walk around 
Uic room slowly, letting my hands run over everything: dusty 
curtains, glass, pillows, cool silk dresses and polished wood.
I notice a large black folder tucked behind the 
headboard of the bed. It looks strangely out of place where 
everything else is blue or gold or wood. I pull it out and lay it 
on the bed. The covcr crumbles a little when I open it. Inside 
arc pictures of Rena in all different clothes and poses. She looks 
a little younger, a liule happier. Rena must have been a model, 
although she never told anything of it to Bea or me. Which is 
just like Rena. She never brags al all.
I lurn the pages slowly, looking carefully at each 
piclurc. On a page near the end, there is a picture of Rena 
leaning againsl a tree. She is laughing, and her head is lipped 
back jusi slightly. I study Rena to learn to look natural and 
comforiablc. I memorize the way she is standing, the way her 
head falls back againsl the tree. My muscles record the easy 
smile, the closcd eyes, the till of the chin. I promise myself to 
remember this picture, and turn the page.
Whal I sec slops my brealliing. Rena is wearing only a red 
striped bikini bottom and nothing else. She looks comfortable 
and happy, and slill very sophisticated, even without a Lop on. I 
feel ihe heal rise to my facc, and my hands start to shake, but I 
cant lurn the page or take my eyes off ihe piclurcs. Everything 
spins, wilh Rena and me in ihe middle, at the hub of the wheel.
Il is like a picture of me fallen back from the future, a reminder 
of what I am going lo be. Not as beautiful or perfect, but the 
piclurcs are almosl familiar.
Behind me, there is a small noise. Everything ends at once, 
everything shuts down and goes black. My hands move 
independently to close the folder. Inside me, my stomach turns 
and slides in sickly roller coaster motion. My head turns to see 
Taybor in the doorway. He is smiling that horrible smile,

---------------------------------------------------

leaning against the doorframe and watching me.
What you got there, Liz? he says, walking over lo 
me as slow as he can. His cowboy bools knock heavy on ihe 
floor as he comes. Whal you goi there?
He sits on the edge of the bed, puls his arm around my 
shoulders. He smells sour, like sweat and yeast. I want 10 
choke, or cry, or run, bul my body is failing me, going limp. He 
lakes the folder, flips to ihe page where Rena is loplcss. His 
arm tightens round my shoulders. His fingers press tiny blue 
circles into my arm.
Oh, he says, almost laughing. "Lizzie, is ill is what 
youre so hot about? He shakes me a little, like telling me a 
joke. You been lookin at these pictures all night, Lizzie?" 1 
close my eyes and wish he was dead. I can feel his facc so close 
to mine, his hoi, rotten breath sliding out through his lips and 
into my lungs. He is filling me up, and inside me everything is 
turning black.
You like looking at these piclurcs as much as 1 do? 
He wails for me lo say something, but I cant even open my 
eyes. He grabs my facc wilh his free hand, pinching my chin 
until my eyes flutter open. I see him through a haze of tears, a 
large dark shape and rows and rows of while icclh.
You know whal they call girls like you? Taybor 
says. His voice is slow and rough, like lircs on gravel. He leans 
againsl me hard, until my musclcs give and I fall back onto the 
bed. His chest pushes into my stomach every time he brcaihcs, 
pressing ihe air out of me. I am lightheaded and dizzy. His facc 
is close; I feel his sour breath on my lips. I try to turn my facc 
away, but his fingers dig like claws into my chin, his knees drill 
into my hips. I close my eyes and wait lo see whal he is going 
to do.
And suddenly he is gone, suuiding across the room by the 
bureau, laughing like a crazy man. He wipes his moulh wilh ihe 
back of his hand.
Fucking Iczzic, he says. Fucking Lizzie ihe
Lczzie.
I am up like a shot, and running out the door, down the chirk 
hallway lo ihe living room. Taybor is still laughing behind me 
and far away. The TV cord catchcs on my leg as I run through 
the living room; I hear the crash and splinicr when it falls, bul 1 
am already gone.
I pull ihe door closcd hard behind me, so tlial it shakes 
in its frame. The sky is almost black, the only lights go by fast 
on the Interstate. My lips arc dry and burning. I am leaving for 
good, leaving everything behind for Taybor and Rena and Bca.
I skid down the front steps, drop lo my knees, and squeeze 
under ihe porch. My hands search the ground for the fresh 
turned dirt, and my fingers push in, pulling the soil apart 
quickly. It is safe and dark here; Lhc sounds from outside arc 
muffled and distant. The low wood cciling is hard above me, 
pushing me deeper and deeper into the earth. I am searching for 
the shoe box where we buried James Dean. The dirt is cool and 
wet, calms my burning hands. I am working hard and 
desperately now to uncover whal I know is buried here.

---------------------------------------------------

klywsrb
You have to be born to this.
It isn't enough
to understand history, to think
you are part of some great continuum. You are
your heritage, and the suffering
is not distant, belonging to some other body.
It belongs to yours.
Think of it as a drill. If you are awakened in the night 
turn over without complaint 
to show the weals on your back,
twist your arm to show the numbers.
Your family wants to make sure
that the taste of almonds is always in your mouth.
There are side effects to everything.
And you may feel nothing.
when your own mother cries
over a story about the two Jewish boyswhose skulls were cracked,
jumped by a gang of fifteen-year-olds screaming kike.
And you may catch hell from your gentile friends
when you see a bumper sticker that says
"shiksas are for practice
and you cannot control your laughter.
words Paige Malerman

---------------------------------------------------

puttin down
JPop said he didn't want to be put in the 
ground by men that got they asses in church 
come Sunday mornin and be sittin up in 
the bar come Sunday night.
pOp
by Erika L. Gentry
So since it seemed to me that every man that 
come up to the house ofFerin to be a polebcarer 
had Jack Daniels on his breath and God Bless 
your Pop on his tongue, 1 tried talkin the family 
into cremation. I knew I was runnin a risk. They 
look at me like I was Satan come up to steal their 
mans soul. What I mean by burn up Pop? They 
like to sit my evil ass in the oven on slow cook for 
a while and sec how 1 like it. Anybody got a 
smidgeon of respect for the Lord knows cremation 
aint right in his eyes. It just aint natural, and 
what happen if Pops soul dont get out in time. 
They was already worried about whether or not 
Pop even had a soul, without me wanting to burn 
up what little bit of one he mighta had.
So I decided I wasnt goin to the funeral, which 
the family saw as sure proof of my soullessness. 
Grandma Pips got to stop on her slow journey 
from the kitchen to the funeral car and say, You 
aint got to explain nothin to us Diddie, but what 
you gon say to the Lord? Then Ma, with her 
hands on each big church sister hip, come up and 
throw a funeral program in my face. Nearly cut 
me in the eye with no apology. And she focus 
her one good eye on me and say something about 
her livin with an evil-spirited man for too long 
and I don't got to pick up where he left off.
Then Sister Boone send her little girl in who 
everybody claims got the black veil over her bubnd 
and she stare at me for a whole ten minutes til I 
fake like Im foamin at the mouth and turnin 
into some kinda mad dog. Who knows what she 
run back and tell her mammy. Couldnt be 
nothin Sister Boone and the rest of the 
community dont believe anyway.
They say Im the spittin image of my Pop. We 
both black as coal and evil as sin. Me and Pop 
didnt care a thing about what people said, cause
we knew thcys just jealous cause we so pretty.
We got skin as smooth and soft as a babys ass 
and big dark eyes that fix any fool to the spot. I 
seen Pop charm a lady so hard that shed be right 
there in our house, eatin Mas food, ready to grab 
Pop and hit Ma upside the head with a pot. And 
he never even had to say a word to the woman. 
Pop didnt even know any charming words. He 
didnt lie neither. Said his looks was the big 
reason why Ma married him choir practice. Even 
in the winter time when it was nippy and hed 
done all he could do in his garden til the next 
season, hed sit out on the back porch step and 
whitde away at a piece of wood. He hated the 
sound of their voices. He said each note was 
backed by a string of gossip. Hed just shake his 
head, whitde, and mumble, My people, my 
people.
And it makes me mad to think of Pop layin up in 
some church with folks he aint never liked 
blowin their noses and dabbin pretend tears away 
from their eyes. Men puttin my Pop in the 
ground who been callin him an evil son-of-abitch for years, feel in bad now just cause hes 
dead. Fcelin scared just anyway. Her and her 
little girlfriends sittin in the back of the church 
gigglin and blowin kisses at him. Callin him 
Black Jesus cause theyd rather be worshippen 
him than singin them church hymns.
Pop hadnt set foot in church past the day he 
married my Ma. He didnt have no qualms with 
the Lord, but he couldnt stand the Lords 
people. Big fat sisters that come to your house 
more interested in what you got in the frig than 
what the Lord got printed in their Bibles. Hed 
go out into the yard whenever Ma had them all 
over for cause they know it could be their bodies

---------------------------------------------------

layin there all stiff and cold. Knowin damn well 
that what they really wanna do is get back to the 
house after the funeral and cat and drink my 
family outa house and home.
And the family knows what people are all about, 
and they plan on feedin em anyway. Pop knew 
better. He would a had none of this. Im 
protcctin his rights. That's how come he loved 
me best anyhow, cause I been straight up since 
the day 1 was bom. Ma runnin around hollerin, 
Why the Lord give me this choleric baby. And 
my first one so sweet and calm and this one cant 
stop fussin for a second. But Pop say, She on 
the ball. She come out seein this big ugly world 
filled with phony people. And she just fussin 
mad about it." And thats how I roll. Thats 
how I am. And the only reason why Im keepin 
the food hot for the family is cause I aint stupid.
I know who bakes and butters my bread now. 
That dont mean that I got to be nice to people. 
Niceness is packed in a lot a bullshit, and like my 
Pop, I dont lie. For me, keepin my mouth shut 
completely is probably best since once the truth 
starts comin out, I aint got no control over it. I 
be just like them crazy people you cant shut-up 
on the bus, just ramblin and spillin out truths all 
over everybody.
So Im sittin in Pops step on the back porch 
hopin I can just keep my mouth shut for one day 
while the Lords people got control a my house, 
when Gappy comes through the back gate. And 
this aint fair at all, cause it seem like its written 
down somewhere that I got to treat Gappy like 
the simple-simon that he is. He thinks just cause 
I let him kiss and grind on me round the side a 
the house a little while back that now Im lookin 
for some more. Hes one of them high yella boys 
who thinks hes fine enough to wear pink. He 
knows and I know that Pop woulda had 
somethin to say about a pink shirt. Pop not even 
cold in his grave, and Gappy paradin down the 
walkway like its a new day. Outa respect for 
my Pop, Id a thought you would have retired 
that pink shit. He makes his lips look like a 
shrug and sits down next to me on the step.
Im sorry.
So why don V you take your sorry ass home 
and change?
Ah, why dont you give my sorry ass a 
break for the day? Sides, I aint sorry bout the 
shirt. Im sorry about your Pop.
"Dont be sorry nothin about my Pop, e I say, 
and I move over on the step cause high yella boys 
think they got the right to sit right up on you.
"Even dead, he better than everybody. "
Then he pulls a yellow envelope out his pants 
pocket and sits it there on the step between us. 
He dont look over at me or nothin. Just stares 
out towards the back alley like theres somethin
intrestin out there that I cant see.
"What you try in to pull?\ ask, Whats in 
this envelope?
Just open it, he says and tilts his head a 
little bit like the intrestin thing out in the alley 
has changed positions. I pick up the yellow 
envelope and see its got For Diddie written on 
the back. Sympathy cards should be addressed 
to the family, I say, but he still dont look over 
at me. I slip my fingernail across die top of the 
envelope and tear it open. Its a yellow and 
orange horizon type card with For My Friend at 
This Difficult Time printed at the top. Its full 
of comforting type bullshit like a shotilder to cry 
on, a body to walk with, or someone to just 
talk to,  cause youre my friend, and I love 
you."
"What, did you subscribe to this whole card 
series? v ask. Aside from it bein written on a 
little lower beat, this card is just like the one he 
brought me at New Years.
You dont like it? Hes lookin at me 
now. And I know hed been starin out into the 
alley just cause hes nervous. Now, hes so 
disappointed. Shit, I wish people didnt always 
want me to be happy with them.
It's alright, 1 say, changin my tone, but 
dont worry about it Gappy. You don't gotta say 
this stuff to me more than once a year. 
Well, this is kinda different Diddie. And 
he scoots over, like my tone change means get 
closer. I see bein nice to people just dont pay. 
Here I am almost halfway off the step, cause Id 
moved over real far to make a point the first time. 
When I heard you wasnt goin to the funeral, I 
thought you musta been real shook up.
"I look real shook up?" I ask.
Nah, you look just as fine as ever. And 
he looks down at me with that smile the girls at 
school be fightin over like fools. He got a set a 
the most perfect teeth I ever seen except for this 
little tiny gap tween his front two teeth. When 
we was younger it was bigger. Now its closin up. 
Too bad I cant say the same for that big gap 
between his ears.
Whats the word around town? I ask, They 
sayin Im real shook up?
Nah, they aint bein so nice. He stands 
up on the step and starts diggin down into his 
pants pocket. Cept for the pink shin, hes 
dressed to the t. He got an image to uphold, 
since half the girls on my block is dyin over his 
yella ass. Thats how come he comes to visit me 
anyway. Young boys is the simplest creatures on 
the face of the earth, and they always tryin to get 
the girl who dont want nothin to do with em. 
What Gappy think hes gon do with me? I aint 
never been pleasant to him a day in his life. He 
tells me I got that whip appeal, but I know 
better. He just wants some leg. And the only 
reaoson why he wants that is cause Im pretty and 
cause he know hes the onjy boy whoever got a
feel off a me. So now he thinks he got some 
kinda papers on my cherry. Boys is all about 
booty.
Hes got what he was diggin for in his pocket. 
Now hes standin there with this wooden figure 
in his hand. Its a rough carving, but I can see its 
a girl and a boy sittin on a step together. See, 
he says, this is you and me. He knows this step 
was my Pops seat. This where Pop used to 
screen all the boys that come into the yard to see 
me or my sister. This step is probly where most 
of the community still sees my Pop. They all 
probly at the funeral laughin deep inside about 
everything Revrand Heath got to say, cause they 
watchin my Pop whittlin wood on his step, a 
handkerchief in one hand wipin the beads a sweat 
away from his eyes. Drawin his feet up so that 
the flames dont catch his shoes on fire. Cause I 
know they all got him whittlin in hell. Gappy 
got him there too. Thats why he got this 
wooden figure of me and him sittin alone on my 
Pops step. But my Pops been dead for three 
days now, and I can tell that Gappys been 
whitdin this figure for a long time.
"You toas just waitin for him to keel over 
wasnt you? I stand up on the step and straighten 
out the dress that Ma made me put on. But Im 
not smoothin it down, Im beaten the damn 
thing down, cause its either my dress or Gappys 
perfect teeth.
What you angry at me for now? he says, 
so I grab his wooden figure to show him what 
Im so angry about. And I snap it in two so that 
me and him aint sittin nowhere near one another 
anymore.
"You just like everybody else, e I say, "Ya 11 just 
laughin deep inside cause hesgettin put in the 
ground today. But he ain t dead long as I'm here, 
and I hateyaUjust as much as he did. e And I 
throw the two pieces, so that one lands outside in 
the back alley and the other lands in Sister 
Palmers back yard. Then I try pushin Gappy off 
my step, cause hes sittin there starin up at me 
like hes watchin some horror show. I get him 
down to the bottom step before he starts grabbin 
my hands and bendin me backwards. And hes 
gettin the better of me til I get hold of his hand 
with my teeth and bite down real hard. And hes 
hollerin Bitch let go and Im still bitin til he 
beats me in the back of my head and knocks me 
down face forward on the concrete. Then he 
grabs the back of my hair and turns me over 
ready to crash me. Hes ready to put his fist in 
my face, but he hesitates and gives me just 
enough time to knee him in his little yella balls.
I stand up while hes layin on his back with his 
legs drawn up cuppin his balls. He sure is a 
pitiful sight. I almost feel sorry for him all 
crumpled up in his pink shirt, and I think how 
my Pop would be proud of me. I can take care of

---------------------------------------------------

myself. Nobodys walkin over me. And I cake 
my foot and kick Gappys yellow and orange 
horizon card into the yard.
I take up my seat back on the step, until I hear 
someone movin around inside the house. And 
the first thing I think of is someone comin out 
back seein me in my Pops seat with Gappy 
crumpled up on the ground. The family would 
do more than just send Sister Boones daughter 
with the black veil over to see me. Hell; theyd 
be gettin ready for an exorcism.
So, I reach down and pull Gappy up by his shirt 
collar. I get him all the way up to the second step 
with him still holdin his balls. And I get my arms 
around his shoulders just as I hear the screen 
door openin. Diddie, wheres the ... whats the 
matter with yall? Its Aunt Noreen standin with 
the door cracked. I forgot that Ma said she was 
comin to get the serving tables ready.
Nothind e I say, We both just missin Pop. e 
Just a litde fib. I look over my shoulder, and she 
got a yeah right expression on her face. But 
fortunately, shes not over here enough to know 
that Gappy bein upset over Pop is very unlikely. 
Well, wheres them table cloths your Ma wants 
on these tables? "Ill show you, p I say. And I get 
up and go in and find the tablecloths quickly, 
cause I dont want Gappy runnin away. What it 
look like if the boy Is just comfortin takes off 
like Evil Kaneval across the yard. When I come 
back ouc, hes standin at the bottom of the steps, 
facin the porch, lookin down at his hand which is 
lookin all red and puffy.
You hurt me, he says, like this is the first 
time. Like I aint been beaten him down with 
insults for the past year. Yous a crazy bitch. I 
oughta fuck you up.
"Shut-upI say, whispering, Thats my 
Aunt Noreen in there, and she don't wanna hear 
nothin about your fantasies. You shoulda hit me 
when you had the chance, but you didn 't, so now 
you got sore balls. Live with it. e He looks at me 
like he wants to hit me so hard my Popll feel it.
"Calm down, e I say, Im sorry. e Then hes 
lookin at me like I just asked him to marry me or 
somethin.
Did I hear you say you was sorry?
"Yeah, I said it. 
Run diat by me again." Hes really gettin 
me irratated. Simple-Simons got a way a workin 
me like that. And here Im tryin my damnedest 
to stay calm today, ks like the Lord set him here 
as some kinda test of my self-control.
Alright, e I say, Im sorry. e
You sorry for kneein me and bitin me? 
"Yeah, what did I sayse He got a 
smartelichy look on his (ace, like some light just 
come on in his puny little brain.
You know the best way to relieve achin 
balls? he asks.
"How bout I just keep kickin you there til 
your numb. e He laughs, holdin the hand that my 
teeth got a hold of.
What about my wood figure. How you 
gonna replace that.
"That piece a shit, e I say, Come with me, Ill 
show you some real art work 
We walk right past Aunt Noreen whos at the 
sink singin swing low, sweet chariot. Shes a 
stone-cold church sister. She aint never looked 
so comfortable in my house, and I know its 
cause she got Pop whittlin down in hell. We go 
up the steps into Ma and Pops bedroom. Its all 
made up nicely, with fresh comforters on each 
bed. Ma got the room made up like Pop is still 
here, or maybe it just dont make that much a 
difference to her chat hes gone.
Theres two beds in here, Gappy says. 
"Yeah, e I say, That seem strange to you?
I sit down on Pops bed, and he sits down on 
Mas.
Just strange cause my Ma and Pop sleep 
right up under each other. He says it all matter 
a fact like I really care where his Ma and Pop 
sleep.
What you tellin me for?
You asked!
"I aint asked iwthin about where your Ma 
and Pop sleep. e Hes sittin there not so fine as he 
was when he first come through my back gate. 
Half his shirt is out a his pants and theres dirt on 
his sleeves. Like he knows what Im thinkin, he 
stands and tucks in his shirt and rolls up his 
sleeves a little. He got this niceness about him 
that I just dont understand. Whys he so 
forgiving. What about this turn the other cheek 
shit? Why didnt he just crash me?
So wheres your Pop sleep when hes mad 
at your Ma?
"I dont know. They make up quick He 
likes sleeping with her. 
It aint about likin her. Its about fightin 
her. Hows he fight her if he always gotta be in 
the bed with her.
He comes over and sits down on the bed with me 
real nonchalent like.
You ever hear this headboard beatin 
against die wall when you sleepin?
"How am I supposed to hear it if Im sleepin? 
You know what I mean. You ever wake 
up and hear it.
You re sick, e I say, What tvould make you 
even think about workin up the nerve to ask me 
somethin like that?
Im just askin cause I was thinkin about 
how when my Ma and Pop fight, they end up 
thumpin the walls. Thats how they say to each 
other you did me wrong, now make it up to me. 
Sound like a good way co apologize. Donc it.
No, e I say. I cant even think of my Ma 
and Pop kissin without my stomach turnin. I 
dont think Ive ever even seen it, and Im glad 
for it. I like to think me and my sister are the 
original cabbage patch children.
"Out a respect for my Pop, e I say, get your 
mind off booty. Cause you ain V gettin none. Sides, 
I brought you up to show you some artwork.  I 
stand and go over to the mantlepiece where some 
of my Pops wooden people are sittcn. There arc 
hundreds of them. He got em sittin around the 
room too, and I know he goc some puc away in 
boxes. Come see, "I say co Gappy, whos scill 
sittin on the bed, buc he donc gee up. He just 
sits there, but I can tell hes lookin at them.
Looks like a little village up there. Anybody 
up there w know. e I pick up a figure that Pop said 
was me, and I take it over to Gappy. He stares 
down at it for a long time before he says, You 
look lonely. Then I grab it off a him cause 
instead a sayin something about my Pops artistic 
talents he got to say somethin about me lookin 
lonely. What that got to do with the price a tea 
in China? Damn is he simple!
Did I ask you that?
Ask me what?
Did I ask you how I look? Do I look like I 
care how you think I look?
I think you look good?
Not how w look now, e I say, how w look 
here. e And Im pointin at this little wooden 
figure that my Pop whittled.
Well, I think you look lonely there, he 
says, But that aint no different than the rest of 
them people on the mande. They all look lonely 
coo, even though chey scandin next co each other. 
As for right now, and how you look right now, I 
think you look good, cause you ready to hit me 
again. That means you angry, and if you look 
angy you cant look lonely. Anything but 
lonely."
You s simple, e I say, You know that. You s 
simple. 
I know ic. Who else you think would put 
up with you?" I got a mind to stick this lonely 
figure right up his nose. Then see how lonely she 
looks. But I wouldnt do that cause Pop 
whitded this litde figure of me, and he didnt 
whittle me lonely. Proves how much Gappy 
knows. Me and Pop werent ever lonely.
I hear people comin througth the door down
stairs, so I put the figure back up on the mande 
and check myself in che dresser mirror co make 
sure chac Simple Simon hasnc ripped nothin. 
Then we go downstairs.
But I had forgotten that most peoples head is in 
the gutter. They see me and Gappy walkin down 
the steps together and they think we been 
upstairs humpin. You can see it on each of their 
faces. They aint been but two seconds in the

---------------------------------------------------

door and got food stuffed in their faces and their 
eyes on me and Gappy comin down the steps. I 
dont say nothin to them. What could 1 say 
anyway. Hey, everybody, me and Gappy warn't 
humpin while you were at my Pop s funeral  1 
walk on back towards the kitchen, but Gappy,
Mr. Friendly, got to greet everybody. He got to 
hug and say his condolences. 1 never did ask him 
how come he didnt go to the funeral.
But Ma takes hold a my arm before I get to the 
kitchen, and she pulls me over into a corner and 
asks what I was doin upstairs with Sister Days 
son. I tell her that we was only up there for a 
second, but she got the exact time that Aunt 
Noreen looked out back and couldnt see us.
"That was about half an hour ago. " I wanna say 
that dont mean a damn thing since I hear it only 
takes a good ten, fifteen minutes anyhow, so if we 
was doin somethin we coulda been back 
downstairs a long time ago. But whats even 
worse is that we werent really up there half an 
hour, and though 1 been tryin real hard all day to 
stay in control, I just say it. Aunt Noreen too 
damn old and blind to tell time. e And its the 
truth. I could a said more. Ma looks at me hard 
with her one good eye, her glass one focused 
somewhere, everywhere, who knows where.
You been a holy terror all your life, Diddie 
Lynn. But this the day they buried my husband, 
and even though you gonna be a constant 
reminder of how evil he was, on this day, on just 
this day, Id like to remember the good things. 
Then she presses her finger nails into my arm real 
hard. And dont you forget that I still got one 
good eye. Who knows what you got up your 
nasty little sleeve, but you aint shot the other one 
out yet, and Im watchin you. Im always 
watchin you. She lets me go, and knocks me 
out a the way on her way to the kitchen. She 
really thinks I got the demon in me. But thats 
alright, cause maybe shes right. Pop told me 
that I just had somethin in me that made me 
point that bebe gun towards the kitchen window. 
How was I to know that Ma was at the sink 
snappin beans. Pop said people just dont have a 
sense of humor when it comes to losin their body 
parts.
I turn around and head back towards the living 
room, cause Ma and the other fat church sisters 
have taken over the kitchen. In the living room,
I find Gappy sittin on the couch arm talkin to 
my sister. And shes lovin it. Oh, shes lovin 
every minute of it. I wanna snatch her up by 
them corn rows in her head. Shes alway tellin 
me, Girl, you crazy. Id be on that boy. Now, 
she thinks she got the chance. But I hate to snap 
her back to reality, but painfully speak-ing, dont 
nobody want her ugly ass. Plus, shes gained ten 
pounds over the winter, and she was chunky 
anyway. So I get as close up to Gappy as I can
and glare down at her, til she asks, What you 
lookin at? Not much\ say. And she claims she 
aint at all in the mood to fight with me today, 
since some of us is mournin Pops death. Some 
of us just come from the funeral payin our proper 
respects. Some of us aint so trifflin.
Trifflin? v say.
Thats right trifflin. Cause you cant even 
pay your proper respects to the only person who 
ever loved you. Then she gets up and walks out 
the room, sayin Watch out Gappy And 
Gappy got this youre a real trip look on his 
face, so I say What?
What you got to act like that for?
Act lie what? I called myself rescuin you?
You rescuin somebody? Please. You got 
to care about the person before you can rescue 
em.
Fine, ev say and walk into the dining 
room. He follows behind me. Theres every 
kinda food in the dining room, which is why the 
living room is so empty. Everybodys in the 
dining room workin on their third and fourth 
helpings. Theres a big table in the middle of the 
room filled with meal food and a table against the 
side wall filled with desserts. These some eatin 
people. Plus, theres a whole table loaded with 
liquor in the back of the room. Me and Pop used 
to call that the Preacher table, cause thats where 
you was always likely to find Revrand Heath.
And show nough thats where he is. And I get 
mad cause Pop couldnt stand hypocrites. This 
the same kinda man he said he didnt want puttin 
him in the ground. I look over at Gappy whos 
fixin a plate. His Ma is standin in the back of the 
room. Shes wearin a tight biack pants suit that 
shows off her booty and tits. Shes a real pistol. 
Pop said she always had the hots for him.
Everybody in the room is sneakin glances at me. 
Aint nobody offered me their condolences side 
from Gappy. They all tryin to act like Im not 
here. Theyd probly leave the room if it wasnt 
for the food. Sister Macon got a plate piled high 
with turkey, chicken, ham, beans, greans, sweet 
potatos, and bread. But she still looks over the 
buffet she got on her lap and stares at me. Shes 
more obvious than everybody, so I make sure that 
shes the one I stare back at. She dont like that 
much, shes one of them scary old women. And 
shes sittin next to Sister Boone, whos daughter 
got the black veil over her eyes, so I know theyve 
talked some stories. I whisper to Gappy, What 
you think these old goats would do if my Pops ghost 
come up and sit next to one of em. 
Gappy got potato salad in his mouth, so he got to 
finish chewin. No offense Diddie, but as evil as 
your Pop was, they all be about ready to die.  I 
look around at all of em, stuffin their faces, and 
Im glad Im standin in the room. Im like a 
walkin memory of Pop. I think Id like to stand
in here all day. What make you think about 
that anyway? Gappy asks.
I don V know. You know you got potato 
salad on you lip? He grabs a napkin off the table.
You never did tell me how come you 
didnt go to the funeral, he says.
Maybe its none of your business.
Maybe so, but how come?
How come you didnt go?
Ah come on, me go to your Pops 
funeral. He hated my guts. Then I got a whole 
lot a new found respect for Gappy, and Im 
almost sorry that I left his orange and yellow 
horizon card out in the yard.
Andyou didn V like him neither. 
Nah, I couldnt stand him neither. From 
what I understand he was rough on your sisters 
boyfriends too.
You aint my boyfriend e Hes almost 
finished with his plate, so hes goin for the desert 
table. He comes back with apple pie, chocolate 
cake, and thumb print cookies. Hes the eatencst 
little skinny boy. You can put it away can tyou? 
I say. He nods.
Aint you eatin somethin?
Nah, e I say, Gotta tinkle. "And I head 
towards the stares. And all a sudden I gotta 
tinkle badly, so I hope aint nobody in the 
bathroom. But there is. I hear Sister Macon and 
Sister Boone in there talkin about the service. 
Aint this somethin, I gotta piss real bad, and 
theyre in there talkin about the service.
Beautiful service.
Just beautiful.
And didnt he look pleasant. Hate to say 
it, but I dont think the man ever looked so 
pleasant. Fredericks sure did a nice job on him. 
Who you kiddin, he look just as evil, if 
not eviler. You just thinkin he looked pleasant 
cause hes dead.
Ah Sister, he did look more pleasant.
All please, even Frederick cant work 
miracles. Im surprised he even got his mouth 
closeed. I hear he died bitchin.
To tell you the the truth, and Lord if this 
aint the truth strike me down, I always thought 
the man was too evil to die.
Sister if that aint the truth let the Lord 
strike me down with you. And'they in the 
bathroom just laughin and havin a good time til I 
pay em real good. I kick open the bathroom 
door and stand back in a doorway. You aint 
never heard silence fall so quickly. So I decide to 
really give em somethin to talk about, and I get 
my voice real deep and say, Yallget the hell out 
my toilet. e And then you aint never seen two fat 
church sisters run so fast. They knockin each 
others hats off and tearin down the steps. They 
dont sec me cause Im back in the darkness of 
the door way. But I can see them. They some 
terrified old fools. And I can hear them crashin 
down the steps. Sounds like they fall in over each 
other.

---------------------------------------------------

And then I get scared, cause I know Mas gon be 
flyin up the steps to see whats goin on, and I 
cant be no where around. So I run into my 
sisters bedroom cause theres a flower grate on 
the outside of her window. And 1 know that she 
used to climb down the grate when Pop had her 
on punishment. But I see that the roses arc in 
full bloom and Im gonna get scratched up pretty 
bad if I try it. But I hear crying sounds down
stairs and a whole lot a Lord Have Mercys, so I 
decide to take my chance. And I got my leg out 
the window and almost ready to put the other 
one through when I feel someone yank at the 
back of my head. And its Ma; she got me. She 
dont even ask any questions. She got a hold on 
my head that I cant break, chough Im kickin 
and screamin. Shes just yankin my head and 
knockin me out the door with them big church 
sister hips. And then shes pullin me down the 
steps by my hair, and Im cryin No Ma, Im 
sorry. They was talkin bad about Pop. e But she 
aint sayin nothin. Im on knees goin down the 
steps face forward. She wont even give me the 
chance to stand up.
Sister Macon and Sister Boone is sittin on the 
couch in the living room. Everybodys in the 
living room. Me gettin my ass beat is the only 
thing more intresting than food. And now Ma 
got me down on my knees in front a Sister 
Macon and Sister Boone, goin Say yous sorry. 
Say yous sorry to Sister Macon and Sister 
Boone. But I dont say nothin now, although 
shes whippin me hard with a wet dish towel, and 
Revrand Heath and some Sisters come and grab 
Ma. Then all I here is, Calm down Olcta.
Calm down. The Lordll take care a her. But I 
cant take this kinda humiliation. Who the hell 
they think they are. And I stand up and get my 
hair out a my face and holler at the top of my 
lungs, Kiss my black ass. Ma is up ready to grab 
me again, but the Revrand is holdin her back. 
"Andyou can kiss my Pop s black ass too. e And I 
look over all their faces. Revrand Heath. 
Grandma Pips. Sister Macon. Sister Boone.
Aunt Noreen. Sister Williams. Sister Jones. Ma. 
My sister. Sister Day with her arm around 
Gappy. And then theres a whole mess a others 
who Im too mixed up to name.
So I run down the hallway, straight through the 
kitchen, to the back porch. And I sit on my 
Pops step. This is where I belong. This is where 
Ill sit for the rest of my life if I have to, but Ill 
never go back inside with the Lords people there. 
If Pop could sec this. If Pop could sec this, hed 
throw them all right out on their fat asses. But 
then theres someone standin beside me. Some
one got the nerve to stand right on my Pops 
step. I look up and its Gappy with this sorry 
look on his face. He looks like he feels sorry for 
me, but I say, Get that Simple-Simon look off your
face. Dont be sorry for me. I'm still better than 
everybody anyway. 
Thats the real deal, he says, You just 
better than everybody. That was real cruel what 
you did to Sister Macon and Sister Boone. I 
look up at him all glowin in his pink shirt.
So what. I do what I like. Always have and 
always wilL You think this a new day or somethin. 
You think things is gon be different now that my 
Pop's in the ground But it ain't different. Its the 
same."
Look at you Diddie. You too evil to cry. 
You the only one really missin your Pop and you 
too evil even to cry. And youre wrong, cause 
things arc different. Things are gonna be real 
different for you. Not for anybody else, cause 
really your Pop didnt make that much difference 
in anybodys life but yours. He was a nasty mean 
old man. And you just like him.
Fuckyou, "I say, but he keeps goin on.
And you even worse off than he was, cause 
you all alone. You dont got nobody now. Who 
you got to be evil with now? And he pulls Pops 
wooden carving of me out of his pocket and 
holds it in my face.
"Whatyou doin with that?" I say. Didn 't 
nobody tell you to bring that down here?"
This you. All alone. You got nobody 
now. Then he throws the carving somewhere 
out in the back alley. I dont say nothin. He 
dont say nothin. We just stare at each other.
He got his mouth drawn up like a shrug, and 
then he turns around and goes on back into the 
house.
So I guess Gappy thinks hes self-righteous or 
somethin. Who he tryin to fool when all he was 
about was some booty in the first place? Like I 
dont know where him and the rest of the Lords 
people is comin from. Theys hypocrites one and 
all. Who needs em? I see Gappys orange and 
yellow horizon card layin under some turnip 
greens in Pops garden. Who asked for his 
friendship anyhow? So I just sit there on Pops 
step, hopin that the Lords people go home soon. 
They be leavin soon as the food and liquor is 
gone. All by myself. I dont need nobody. Just 
my step and memories of my Pop. Good 
memories too about how black and pretty we is. 
Even the sun goin down and the cold breeze 
blowin wont get me off Pops step. Even 
though I need to pea so bad and I got my legs 
pressed together so hard they feel like they gonna 
snap. All by myself until Gappy comes out on 
the porch again, and I run and pick up his orange 
and yellow horizon card before the shade and the 
end of the day buries it somewhere under Pops 
turnip greens.

---------------------------------------------------

A Bathtub
There are portraits of dead rock stars and deposed fascists passing late 
Saturdays. A shroud lies over them and ink drips, ink drips into cartoons
lying face down. Light falls in different colors, colors which revolve, colors 
that revolve to form pictures. Pictures of saints who discuss, discussing how
to question.
It is the mother who comes to relieve, the mother thought dead, the 
mother eternal. She looks and prays, prays artificially until the song in the 
other room, the song is no longer heard. She finds it functionally complete, 
complete for people to answer.
Pages of a novel fall on the floor, several, not too many, but enough 
that justice is served. An innocent is marred, marred by the rusted mirror,
the mirror that hangs crookedly, everything is reflected sideways. To find an 
old pen at the bottom, stare at the stone, then shake it, shake it so the beard
falls off,
revealing what goes on the page.
Sitting in it, with small walls and no heat, so that the dregs seek you, 
seek the low point, which is your low point. Never is a rise noticed, not a rise 
leaving verses bouncing on the page.
Tripp Goldsberry

---------------------------------------------------

the clog
that 
keeps 
lodging 
in the 
throat 
of this 
old pipe.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

23 September 1991The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaVolume 86, Issue 4
Health Services 
launches new
programs
By MARNI BLAKE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Until recently, Health Services may 
have seemed like a place to pick up our 
new cold packages and seek the occa
sional medical advice. Now Health Ser
vices wishes to expand its involvement 
with students by sponsoring health care 
programs on a monthly basis through
out the year.
According to Anita Barkin, the direc
tor of Health Services, a different aspect 
of health care will be highlighted each 
month with many different events to 
educate the campus community. One of 
the reasons the new health care pro
gram has been created is because the 
Health Services is dissatisfied with the 
level of outreach it has had in the past.
One year we just answered [students] 
health questions; another year we just 
ran health articles. The main goal this 
year was to develop a program that 
students could really benefit from, says 
Barkin.
In addition to the monthly programs, 
the Health Services has hired nutrition
ist Leslie Bonci, who will consult with 
students who want advice about dietary 
needs. Bonci will be available for consul
tation during the first health program.
The new programs will be kicked off 
this month with Heart Smart Week. 
Heart Smart Week will run from Sep
tember 23-27. Major events will include 
free cholesterol screenings and free nu
tritional and fitness consultations. These 
main events will take place in West 
Wing Resnick Hall TV Room from 10 am 
to 2 pm.
On Octoberl7, Health Services will 
offer flu shots followed by an informa
tive program on breast and testicular 
cancer for October 2125. Although it 
might seem that college students are 
immune to such diseases, they are, in 
reality, not.
Males attending college are the high
est risk group for testicular cancer, said
Barkin. She also stressed the importance 
of self-awareness. The program will teach 
students how to examine themselves for 
breast and testicular cancer.
The Great American Smokeout will 
take place on November 21. Health Ser
vices will offer help for people who want 
to quit smoking.
Well probably give out blow pops be
cause [sucking oncandy or chewing gum] 
is one of the tricks used to stop smoking, 
Barkin said.
The widespread AIDS problem will be 
addressed on campus from December
2-5. One possible event will be a condom 
demonstration.
Next semesters series of programs will 
be opened up with Eyecare Week on 
January 20-24. The program will in
clude vision screenings and discussions 
of such topics as contact lens care.
February 10-14 is dedicated to aware
ness of sexually transmitted diseases 
and rape.
These issues of passion were pur
posely planned to occur in conjuction 
with Valentines Day, said Barkin.
Skin Care Week occurs just in time 
for Spring Break, March 16-20. Barkin 
hopes this program will prevent at least 
a few students from getting burned to a 
crisp over spring break. Health Services 
will try to get Johnson & Johnson for 
students.
In April, Carnival month, the last pro
gram to be run and will feature drug and 
alcohol awareness events. The activities 
will take place April 6-8. One possible 
event is a nonalcoholic happy hour at 
Scotland Yard.
Barkin believes Health Services has 
been successful in planning the programs. 
They cover popular health concerns.
We tried to pick things that have im
plications for this age group [college stu
dents] and would be easy to run. These 
activities have really grown more than 
we thought they would and each student 
may personally benefit from each months 
programs and events.
On-campus nutrition consultant 
balances students dietary needs
How to keep the fun in eating right
With the growing threat of heart disease and the resulting large scale 
promotion of no fat, no cholesterol foods, Oreos, potato chips, and 
chocolate bars are slowly being edged out of our diets. Is it really necessary 
to eliminate our favorite foods from our diets and substitute them with 
tasteless items such as tofu burgers?
Fortunately, there are ways to cut down on fatty foods without numbing our 
tastebuds. Here are some simple rules to follow that won't cut all the fun out 
of your diet:
 Limit the amount of butter, salad dressing, mayonnaise, peanut butter, and 
gravy.
 Opt for lowfat or fat free dairy products like skim milk and frozen yogurt.
 Eliminate fried foods. This includes chicken, fish, and fried vegetables.
 Lower protein intake. Substitute proteins with vegetables and pasta.
 Substitute high fat snacks for lower ones. Munch on popcorn Instead of 
potato chips, nibble on graham crackers instead of chocolate chip cookies, 
and chew on licorice instead of chocolate.
For individual nutritional consultation and general information on healthy 
eating, contact Health Services at x2157.
KeNiDn' pn4hsn OelDs1 BNuisusels4u 
eY,shna A8 fCYs OeinI1 RCiuCl >Duslo gnCuNin4 Lasuei
By DEXTER T. KOBAYASHI
Tartan Contributing Editor
In addition to the new monthly 
health topic programs and extended 
hours, CMUs Health Services is add
ing one more service  an on-campus 
nutrition consultant. Health Services 
is contracting Leslie Bonci through 
the University of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center where she works as the head of 
the Nutritional Services at Falk Clinic.
Either Bonci or an out-patient dieti
cian from her staff will be on campus 
two Tuesday mornings every month.
Thats how were starting the pro
gram because its new, said Anita 
Barkin, Director of Health Services. 
We want to see the level of response 
it generates.
Bonci, a native of Pittsburgh, re
ceived an undergraduate degree in 
bio-psychology from Vassar College
and a masters degree in public health 
from the University of Pittsburgh. She 
is a registered dietician and has worked 
for the past ten years as a clinical 
dieticianthe last five of which were 
at the Pittsburgh Medical Center. 
Bonci is working on her doctorate in 
the field of cardiovascular epidemiol
ogy at the Graduate School of Public 
Health at the University of Pittsburgh.
She decided to study nutrition after 
graduating from Vassar because the 
field had intrigued her.
When I graduated from college, I 
entertained the notion of becoming a 
physician and decided against it, said 
Bonci. I have to credit my grand
mother who said, You would be great 
at this. Its one of the fields that is 
constantly changing and nutrition is 
one of the sciences that is greatly in
volved in prevention.
The CMU campus offers Bonci a
change of pace from the Pittsburgh 
Medical Center. Im very excited. Its 
different from working in a hospital 
environment because the emphasis 
here is starting with healthy people 
and keeping them healthy.
The idea of a campus nutritionist 
had come up in a conversation between 
Bonci and Barkin when they worked 
together at Falk Clinic.
We had done a few programs on 
nutrition on campus and I said, 
Wouldnt it be nice to do some more 
regular things, to have a staff dietician 
on campus? Anita put it in a proposal 
and here I am now, said Bonci.
After Bonci found that she would be 
CMUs nutrition consultant, she setup 
a meeting with Roger Heydt, director 
of Carnegie Mellon Dining Service to 
see what on-campus food options she 
could suggest to students.
bhnC4n 4nn B:R3/R/SB/KR1 ,Con pH
Fitness program gets into shape 
with Caber Club and step classes
TRUPTI PATEL
Tartan Staffwriter
Get in shape now! The Carnegie 
Mellon Athletic Department has 
pepped up its aerobics program with 
new step training classes and has kept 
old standards like The Caber Club in 
order to provide the best fitness pro
gram ever at the University.
Step training, developed by the 
Reebok Company two years ago, is one 
of the toughest and fastest-growing 
aerobic workouts available. This type 
of aerobics involves stepping up and 
down onto adjustable height platforms. 
The workout is low-impact, which sim
ply means that there is no jumping 
around involved; thus, the stress on 
the legs is minimal.
Donna Morosky, director of Fitness 
and Health at CMU and head instruc
tor of aerobics, says, When I teach the
class, Im totally exhausted. It takes 
more power and more energy than 
other workouts, and it burns more 
calories.
The energy expenditure during a 
step aerobics workout is equivalent to 
that spent on a 7-minute-per-mile run. 
However, the impact on the legs is 
equivalent to that of walking.
Even though step training is a tough 
workout, Morosky says, We have all 
levels of people taking it. There are 
young students and older staff mem
bers and there are beginners as well as 
advanced students.  Although it might 
seem difficult to coordinate movements 
in step training at first, Morosky main
tains that people should stick with it 
because it gets easier with a little 
practice.
The workout is a challenge on begin
ning, intermediate, or advanced levels 
because the step platform used can be
heightened depending on 
participants desire. For more advanced 
aerobicizers, blocks of 2 inches each 
can be added beneath the original step.
Morosky also emphasizes that the 
step classes are appealing to both men 
and women. She says, Not only women 
but also men love the class because its 
tough, its fun, and its not dance-y. 
Any CMU student, faculty, or staff 
member can take step classes at the 
gym during lunch time or in the 
evening. Right now, classes are be
tween 30 and 40 minutes, but Morosky 
says the classes will soon be length
ened to 40 and 60 minutes. She adds 
that the classes are a steal at 75 cents 
each since Pittsburgh clubs regularly 
charge about 8 dollars per class.
My goal was to get students in
volved in fitness. Weve succeeded in 
getting people into the gym. It works to 
bhnC4n 4nn g/RBLKK1 ,Con pH

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 September 1991
Zen supports toenail picking rituals
One day, while surrounded by 
his closest friends, American phi
losopher Alan Watts poised him
self prophetically and said, Zen 
does not confuse spirituality with 
thinking about God while peel
ing potatoes. Zen spirituality is 
just to peel the potatoes.
; Despite the onslaught of accu
sations which followed, Watts 
insisted that this statement was 
in no way biased by his wellknown passion for home fries.
 But if Im understanding it 
right, Watts Zen/spud analogy 
makes a hell of a lot of sense. Its 
;not a matter of Zen vs. religion, 
its just that I know from my own 
personal experience that some
WHATEVER HAPPENED TO 
PLATINUM BLONDES?
By Andrew Cosentino
of the most tranquil and focused 
moments of bliss have tran
spired while sitting on the edge 
of my bed picking at a toenail. 
And if questioned in private, 
dont tell me that all of you civi
lized folk out there who have 
experienced the soothing quali
ties of post-shower, soft toenail 
peeling would argue otherwise.
You too? And I thought I was 
the only one. Totally! After a 
bath its easier than peeling a 
naval orange. It can be our little 
secret... kay?
I really think this whole Zen 
spirituality thing can do won
ders for a college campus, too. 
For some reason, when you come 
to college and meet such a di
verse crowd, those trying ques
tions of life, death, God, and 
beer always turn into lengthy 
late-night discussions.
I remember my freshmen year 
when now and then at about two 
am, a discussion having to do
Besides peeling potatoes and toe
nails, I firmly hold that whipping stuff 
can be an out of body activity for a 
lot of people.
with pizza crust would miracu
lously segue into a long-winded 
debate in which the Jews and 
Gentiles of Donner Hall would 
chew the spiritual fat (schmaltz) 
throughout the night. Just think 
of all the sleep that could have 
been saved if as soon as the topic 
veered from pizza crust, a des
ignated official held up an em
ery board, signaling each stu
dent in the dorm room to close 
his mouth, take off a sock, and 
begin picking at a toenail in bliss
ful silence. Has Zen, or has Zen 
not done us all a great favor 
here?
Besides peeling potatoes and 
picking toenails, I firmly hold 
that whipping stuff can be an
out-of-body activity for a lot of 
people. And I think Zen, were he 
alive today, would back me up 
on this. Not necessarily think
ing about God when whipping 
stuff, but just picking something 
up and whippingit. If you havent 
whipped stuff in a while, give it 
a shot.
When the world seems to be 
crumbling around you, take a 
chicken leg out of the refrigera
tor, go outside with poultry in 
hand, and whip it into a wooded 
area. Whip it nice and high and 
far and listen to it tick through 
the branches on its descent.
After whipping your poultry, 
bhnC4n 4nn JLB1 ,Con p9
Simon proposes ways for creating public policies
By SHAZLA NAJMI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
' Herb Simon, a psychology proifessor at CMU, has roamed many 
halls of academia  in each one 
leaving his mark. On Thursday, 
{September 19, he left his mark 
pnce more in the Presidents Dis
tinguished Lecture series. Based 
on his experiences in a public 
policy committee in Washing
ton, D.C., Simon spoke about 
policy making and the environ
ment. The talk was entitled, 
Energy, environment and all 
that stuff  how policies are 
made.
The effect of industrialization 
and technology on the environ
ment has been a major issue in 
the United States for the latter 
half of this century. Policies con
cerning the environment have 
been made, reinstated, and car
ried out for perhaps longer. But 
increasingly, with the expansion
of technology, we have come to 
doubt the efficacy of the meth
ods by which public policies are 
made.
There are two traditional 
methods of making public policy: 
social experimentation and ad
versary proceedings. Social ex
perimentation, says Simon, is 
not a reliable method because 
the programs that are intro
duced into society are rarely 
evaluated. Furthermore, it is 
hard to determine what would 
have happened if the program 
was not put into action  there 
is no control condition.
Simon describes adversary 
proceedings in simple terms:
One way to make a policy is to 
find out whos on this side and 
whos on that side and let them 
argue. These adversary pro
ceedings are obviously moni
tored by government agencies 
and legislative bodies who later 
hold hearings to discuss the pre
sented issues. Each side will call 
on scientific specialists who will 
present the case in the best light 
for their sides. These groups of 
scientists come from different 
fields and different social back
grounds. This difference affects 
the objectivity of the informa
tion gathered in the hearings.
Simon also brought up the con
cept of the classification of sci
ences into hard or soft sciences 
and how this affects policy mak
ing. Hard sciences are gener
ally considered to be the natural 
sciences  physics, chemistry, 
and biology; while soft sciences 
are considered to be the social 
sciences. Simon disagreed with 
this classification, saying that a 
hard science should not be de. fined in terms of its strength, 
solidity and validity.
Does global warming exist? 
Hard science has no solid evi
dence to support (or negate) globhnC4n 4nn K/fSB1 ,Con p9
Hsin-I-Chow/Tartan Photographer 
6niA KsYel 4,eIn el RmNi4aC8 CAeNu 4Dsnlus4u4d sl-eh-nYnlu sl ,NAhsD ,ehsD8jYCIsloP
A Short Course on Business Organizations
(or "Why I might consider working for W. L. Gore & Associates, Inc.")
Chain of 
Command System
TOP
Lattice
System
TOP
Superman
Still Bigger 
Boss
Bigger Boss
Next Boss
Boss
Structure
Bureacracy
Rules
Stagnation
Hierarchy
Some businesses have a very 
structured approach to manage
ment some dont. Now you 
have to decide which is right for 
you  a decision which may 
shape your future.
This company is built on the 
principles of freedom, fairness, 
commitment and good judgment. 
At Gore we work in teams 
without titles or ranks. Every
one is an associate, communicat
ing directly with other associ
ates. We call this highly suc
cessful system the Lattice. The 
Lattice and the creative vision of 
associates have taken this com
pany from the basement of the 
founders home to the global 
market.
Gore teams make the highest 
quality electronic, medical, 
industrial and fabric products 
from GORE-TEX fabric in 
sportswear to GORE-TEX 
cardiovascular patches. Our 
products keep blood flowing to 
hearts and information moving 
through computers. They 
protect the environment from 
contaminants and astronauts 
from the extremes of space 
flight.
At Gore, youre free to pursue 
projects that make a difference, 
to explore opportunities across 
disciplines and, perhaps, to 
introduce the world to your 
dream come trueanother 
revolutionary Gore product.
BOTTOMTOP
W. L. Gore & Associates 
551 Paper Mill Road 
P.O. Box 9206 
Newark, DE 19714
If you have a technical back
ground and a desire for challenge, 
contact us directly or through the 
placement office.
Creative Technologies 
Worldwide

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 September 1991L3
Sra laotlpro vdolarooera sw trrn 
twsPswro Pab D,lt ,l2ra nryo
JLB1 cieY ,Con pv
listen to the silence for a 
minute and try to picture that 
very same chicken legthat was 
just in your hand, now resting 
motionless on a bed of wet 
leaves or the cool mud banks 
of a creek. No it doesnthave to 
be a chicken leg; it can also be 
a rock or fruit or an Eskimo 
pie.
Most encouraging is the 
prospect that Zen may be able 
to get us out of our economic
slump (if that is actually pos
sible). Every day companies 
throw away all kinds of money 
sendingtheir employees to semi
nars in California where body 
and soul are refreshed after a 
week of climbing thirty foot tele
phone poles and watching a 
steady diet of videotaped com
mercials for L. Ron Hubbard's 
Dianetics.
Instead of wasting money on 
places such as California, big 
businesses should simply put a
chicken leg on the desk of each 
executive in the morning and 
let him whip it out a window 
or down a corridor. Cause lets 
face it, our economy wont perk 
up until the major corpora
tions get bullish on whipping 
stuff... and occasional bigwig 
toenail picking.
Andrew Cosentino is a jun
ior professional writing major 
who peels off layers of his toe
nails after showering.
New nutritionist provides dietary 
information for individuai students
B:R3/R/SB/KR1 cieY ,Con p/
They [dining services] have 
just redone the menus over the 
summer. I am impressed by the 
changes that they have made in 
healthful food choices, said 
Bonci. I really think that there 
are a lot of acceptable options to 
choose from [on campus].
In order for CMU students to 
make an appointment with 
Bonci, they must first get refer
rals.
The referrals can come from 
two sources: nurses or the Coun
seling Center, said Barkin. At 
the Health Center, the students 
first come in and see a nurse. 
The students tell the nurse that 
 they want to see the nutritionist 
. and why. Then the nurse sets up 
an appointment with the nutri
tionist.
Some students may prefer to 
talk to counselors about diet 
deficiencies or eating disorders. 
In this case, the Counseling Cen
ter is able to set up appoint
ments with the nutritionist for 
students.
Walk-ins are not being ac
cepted now because a nutrition
ist will only be available two 
days each month. If the need 
continues to grow, then hope
fully we can expand the pro
gram, said Bonci.
Barkin feels that an on-campus nutritionist will fill a muchneeded position.
You always have to consider 
your resources, said Barkin. 
Before, we would give the stu
dents a packet of information 
[on nutrition] or send them off 
campus. The nutritionist is the 
expert in that area. So we felt 
that if we could add that service, 
we would not only benefit by 
that service, we would allow 
more time to deal with students 
with other problems.
Bonci plans to have various 
symposiums on fitness and nutrition throughout the year in 
concordance with the Health 
Servicesmonthly programs. She 
has already worked with Donna 
Morosky, director of Fitness and 
Health at CMU, on a discussion 
about nutrition.
Weve given a lecture to the 
drama classes. A lot of students 
were gaining weight or having 
other problems and were not able 
to eat right, said Bonci. I am 
also hoping to meet with the 
athletic coaches to discuss ap
propriate sports nutrition.
I will offer students counsel
ing about any nutrition related 
health concern. For instance: 
weight control, eating disorders, 
high blood pressure, if they have 
food allergies, or if theyre con
sidering becoming vegetarians. 
I encourage people to call me at 
Falk, Monday through Friday, 
nine to five, at 648-1836 if they 
have any questions.
Simon urges scientists to participate 
in making environmental policies
Exercise facilities and classes offer 
students invigorating workouts
g/RBLKK1 cieY ,Con pp
relieve stress and it helps people 
sleep better. It really works! 
exclaims Morosky.
In addition to new programs 
this year, the campus is still 
offering the services of The 
Caber Club, a fitness and train
ing center that has been on cam
pus for 9 years. The Caber Club 
is a place where one can get a 
physically challenging and well 
supervised workout.
Joe Colon, manager of The 
Caber Club, says, Fitness is a 
part of the education process at 
Carnegie Mellon. We provide 
an outlet for students. The fac
ulty do a great job with the aca
demic end of it. We provide the 
physical end of it. If I can ac
complish that, Im happy.
Located in the Margaret 
Morrison Plaza, the club offers 
a variety of different machines 
and equipment. The newest of 
these machines is the 
stairmaster. There are a num
ber of other machines the club 
maintains such as stationary 
bikes, the powermaster, and 
squat racks.
Colon says that one of the 
special things about The Caber 
Club is that it offers every mem
ber the opportunity to work with 
a personal trainer who can help 
develop and supervise a work
out routine for them. He 
adds,We cater only to the CMU 
community, so our schedule is 
pretty free. Our main interest is 
to get that personal touch. We 
spend a lot of time with people, 
and we feel its our duty to help 
people get a good workout.
Another thing which Colon 
emphasizes is that The Caber 
Club presents a very comfort
able atmosphere rather than the 
intimidating environment of
K/fSB1 cieY ,Con pv
bal warming, so is it really a 
hard science? Lets ask our
selves, is the available science 
hard or soft; more important - 
how hard, how soft and where 
are the soft spots and what do 
they matter? There is a growing 
involvement of soft science con
cerning environmental issues, 
said Simon.
Simon also stressed that sci
entists should not forget that 
they play the role of advisor in 
this environment policy mak
ing. They should not abuse that 
role to incorporate their values 
into the policy rather than those 
of the public. This becomes more 
and more popular as environ
mental studies become an ex
ceedingly soft science.
According to Simon, another 
thing that must be kept in mind 
when solving environmental 
problems is that through the 
solutions, may create more en
vironmental problems. We have 
to look at the problems in a 
worldly fashion  as a whole. 
Environment cannot be separate 
from energy, which is not sepa
rate from population; they are 
all intertwined.
Simon came to the following 
conclusion about adversary pro
ceedings:
Adversary proceedings are 
widely used in public policy pro
cess and that is probably desir
able for two reasons: first, there 
is a close intertwining of facts
394-5380
United Way of Allegheny County 
Volunteer Action Center
CMU GRADUATE STUDENT 
ORGANIZATION
presents
HAPPY HOUR
at
THE ARTERY
5847 Ellsworth Avenue 
(near the intersection of Ellsworth and College) 
in Shadyside
SPECIAL GSO DISCOUNT 
DELICIOUS APPETIZERS
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 
6 to 8 pm
Please Bring your CMU graduate ID
Sam Greenfield/Tartan Photographer
gieY hncu ue isomu' UnAAsn 3sDnjmis4YCl1 :ls-ni4su8 ec bsuu4ANiom 
oiCaNCun 4uNanlu( pn4hsn RsojfCl RCY1 XNlsei KeDsCh Cla UnDs4sel4 
KDsnlDn4 YCXei( Cla Kmisus 3CsumCumC1 4e,meYein Oseheo8 YCXei 
nloCon sl 4uinlNeN4 CnieAsD CDus-su8P
some weight rooms. Women 
make up 46 percent of the clubs 
members, which might put more 
women at ease and encourage 
them to join the club.
The Caber Club costs $7 per 
visit and the also has semester 
and academic year memberships 
available to the CMU commu
nity for less than $250. At these 
prices, The Caber Club is one of 
the best quality and cheapest 
fitness centers available. Al
though the facilities are not as
extensive as those seen at clubs 
such as Scandinavian or Jack 
Lalanne, the equipment is up to 
date and of good quality while 
the prices are much lower.
With both the new step train7 
ing classes and the continuing 
availability of The Caber Club, 
the Carnegie Mellon community 
has access to a rapidly expandr 
ing and high quality workout 
program. So grab those spandex, 
sweatpants, and sneakers and 
start your workout today.
and values. And secondly, the 
softness of science in so many 
regions that are relevant to pub
lic policy and the fact that with 
the softness comes an even more 
and even greater danger of in
tervening facts and values. The 
heart of the question lies in the 
justified confidence of people in 
the kinds of advice the scientists 
give.
Come join us... 
be a volunteer
THE BEST PIZZA IN TOWN?
Well, we really can't tell you that. We can 
tell you that our one size pizza (12 inch) is 
made with our fresh hand made, home made 
dough and sauce. We can also tell you that 
it is covered with a half-pound of our cheese 
blend, topped by the extras of your choice.
It is a very tasty and fresh product and we 
sell it at a reasonable price. But is it the 
best? You tell us.
FREE DELIVERY 
687-9106
TOPPing LESS
A PLAIN CHEESE PIZZA FOR ONLY
3.98 (+ tax)
NOT GOOD WITH OTHER COUPONS 
OFFER EXPIRES
NOT JUST PIZZA 
687-9106
ONE FOR LESS
A PIZZA WITH ONE TOPPING FOR ONLY
4.48 (+ tax)
NOT GOOD WITH OTHER COUPONS 
OFFER EXPIRES ________
NOT JUST PIZZA 
687-9106
TWO FOR NONE
BUY A PIZZA FOR THE REGULAR PRICE 
4.98 (+tax) & GET YOUR 1ST TWO TOPPINGS ON THE HOUSE 
NOT GOOD WITH OTHER COUPONS NOT JUST PIZZA
OFFER EXPIRES 687-9106
V

---------------------------------------------------

8U9ZB9 isod q6jnqsu!d aqj u| ajrneaj A||ep e si Ajnqsauooa
Calvin and Hobbes is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Press.
Qi/in
-OCT> 1/1

---------------------------------------------------

CL
I
The Far Side is adaily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
zo
o
o
5
26<

---------------------------------------------------

Why r Haby
AU wf NEED n 00 is\
bEND <MEOHe OVER Tb)_________
vj m p'rY'P* cm m ut m
^~7/--------- (HWMISWJNIiWt! MII ^. ne us.
WIW7? us?' wr CHicr/l Ta0mi*\ 
tn aS. eusr m ore pS mirm/f^y
/V / yhi! i Twir iwwisw /ft 
[/ ( MAftKi MERE SumsCD TV^ HW W/  ----<
fTi' T\T^  '<^>'*1
7?IE UH m rxouinr IN> [Uik, , m uc me me  m.cm me WSwMp of one my -me niter t' 
aim- - Jw\tt V? ftotA ^\WRHW,N'i THf >lume86 ,6Ies,
\ Vt\M
 Area>.w. y
THCV wr MUD OUH IN mT) VHuai-THtff if. lesiDfSM
m mi m m mi wmnct) w
WWIW> flW 7W meAi.sfflt 1
, l vJwsr  X TUTTI*li Vt
vs .1I1tv ^ 
uaap eI )( toun urn-<
>ufevifi.c
lasiCf
NWM?'rug.* m mnmVTb tmm mn m Mb on
Ive MODIFIED 7KM 71 N MU 
? SOMfK! T^--------LrR MCALLKTtf! <
, wm/u cK KfPOfrr TO rf ( 
pimenti mu K onci"
^AA ^
AHAWWA'.l___ JUST /I SuSTi-----
MISCALCULATION! W STILL 
m AZlE 1b tic O A Lf6,
--------- TH0U6H '
I HiHEHlCK THE 
last krSb jtu y 
'i^MOWWV sfaemtl!}
WHY THE WAN of= The 
HOUSE SHOULDN'T <5ET 
TO DO THE SHOfiftCICj
SHML k/J 60
CARKJE^IE MEU-ONJ'S MIK3\hALlST LOiJ - v/lSCOSHM ed.ommcl
^cu uJHcRi
a* ay
D v v larn
fy Cou^ff^SB
^iViuprg^TTVF^
PfP-klNr Lor.-THfiT 
Looks ilg ^ rtoToRcVcLt
UjCi-i-, ouelUwi
XT's. "^OiT -Sj/ncThl-' Vo^Kc ^oPPCSEii To SBt SxTuBTxe^ 
Llie tuts. XT SOSS so ITH PIc. HcPo'^'^VVr cCEBT. .I Pol R sTuefiL*r L-OT ' ' r T R- ?3X
1 HEW...___________
But has anybody 
___asked why?___
XTS -JoHM ue^rToKTt 
xreuu"/o^
THIS SHEE
is 3^ 4 .^3^  (J /s/O N 'l7T^
tmMhxOnp llms.^cUiiwe! 
S.WI LL Vo u M{pieflSE J|
1phcUhrb d I To yoUR 
ISEATJ 1
BANG
dissidents.
The Lemmings ot Norstrilia: Vol. 1 -- Andrew Plolkin

---------------------------------------------------

colle
giate
Edward Julius Collegiate CW79-1
ACROSS
1 Something found in 
Frisco (2 wds.)
9 Party man
13 Oetermine the de
gree of association
14  Stanley Gardner
15 Those who mesmerize
16 Hasn't ------ to
stand on
17 Peter Sellers char
acter, Henry ------
18 Conmits (2 wds.)
20 "The Organization
21 I ten for Willie 
Mosconi
23 Cousteau's ship
24 Chang's twin
25 Military training 
center (abbr.)
26 Sudsy quaff
27 "The ------ Tattoo
29 Cup handle
31 "Eyes have they, 
and ------'
36 '60s Secretary of 
the Interior
38 Detroit labor initials
40 Seat of Brigham 
Young University
41 He played Hud and
Harper______________
43 Shining example
45 Made a hole-in-one
46 32 grams of oxycen, 
e.g.
48 Fleur-de--------
50 Fort-------, Cal if.
51 Scenic miniature
55 Rachel Carson 
subject
56 Where Orr used to 
compete
57 Have mutual effect 
59 Exam taker
61 1975 Wimbledon 
champ
62 Sap
64 Exigency
65 Certain M.D.
66 Give it .------
67 Window sash
DOWN
1 Carpentry tool 
(2 wds.)
2 Composer Thomas
Augustine ------
3 Old TV western
4 Cos or iceberg
5 Mr. Whitney
6 Dramatis personae
7 Ancient Greek state 
or N.Y. prison
8 What a twist-off 
 Cap does
9 Kind of eyes
10 Ship's deck
11 Quite a few
12 Musical notation
13 ------ Bergerac"
15 Mazeroskis famous 
feat of '60 (2 wds. 
19 Coleridge's "gentle 
thing"
22 Biblical brother 
28 Common street name 
30 Inferior newspaper
32 Age
33 Legal plea (2 wds.)
34 Steam up, to excess
35 Went through.a 
stage of infancy
37 Col1ege in Beaumont 
Texas 
39 Work with metal 
42 Far from 
stay-at-home 
44 Concern for 
59-Across 
47 Gap or missing part 
49 Tristram Shandys 
creator
51 Hunt goddess
52 Map detail
53 Tryon's "The -------"
54 Tall and slender
58 Demolition supplies 
60 Tibia
63 Actress Frances 
8
I
1
 12345 .67
89
101112
1
H
15
171819
20212223
242526
27282930313233343b
3637383940
414243444b
46474849bU
5152535455bb
57585960
61
1
62
63
J64
6566
67_______1
 : .

---------------------------------------------------

Make sure your road trip proceeds without a hitch.
Ktsi'iiil
8Ji 00 670 J >0
Sometimes road trips can be a little more adventurous than you expect them to be. Which is why
you should always pack your AT&T Calling Card* ? Its all you need to make a call from almost anywhere to anywhere.
Its the least expensive way to call state-to-state on AT&T when you cant dial direct. And youll be connected to the reliable
service youve come to expect from AT&T. ? Plus, if you get your Catting Card no^y youll also get a free hours worth of
AT&T long distance calling.** And youll become a member of AT&T Student Saver Plus, a program of products and services
designed to save students time and money. ? The AT&T Calling Card. Its the best route to wherever youre going.
Get an AT&T Calling Card today. Call 1 800 654-0471 Ext. 4812. ^AT&T
In addition, campus residents may place direct-dialed calls using university and AT&T ACUS1 Service.
"Good lor one hour ol direct-dialed, coasttocoast, night and weekend calling, based on prices effective 2/16/91. Oder limited to one $8.25 AT&T Long Distance Certificale 
per student. Otter valid through June 30.1992.
1991 AT&T

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
DH 2210 wins hands down as best theater
By JASON MCDONALD
Tartan Sports Editor
Editors note: This is the third 
of a three-part series, in which 
local theaters are reviewed in 
search for the best theater in the 
Pittsburgh area.
When I was first cornered to 
write part three of this series, I 
wasnt quite sure how to pro
ceed. And when the Diversions 
Editor put a cigarette lighter to 
my lengthy dissertation about 
seeing Hot Lustful Honeys at 
the Garden, I was even more 
confused. However, I perse
vered, and Im here to present a 
more useful guide to the areas 
movie theaters.
Showcase Cinema North, 
9700 McKnight Road, McCandless, 935-5885. $3.50 for mati
nees before 6 pm; $6 evening 
price. Getting there is between 
Half and two-thirds the fan  
the trip out to 279 North and 
McKnight Road is pretty 
straightforward, but usually 
very crowded due to Ross Park 
Mall traffic. And the maze of 
exit ramps to the theater is 
where things really get complex
 your CMU education will be 
sorely tested.
However, once you get there, 
this is the same sort of cookiecutter theater that hides in 
Monroeville under the guise of 
Showcase Cinema East [The 
Cinema Explorer, Part One, 9/ 
9]. Changing the compass direc
tion doesnt make that much dif
ference. The screening rooms are 
comfortable, but are often not 
large enough because of the 
owners desire to squeeze as 
many screens in the theater as 
possible. Concessions are always 
plentiful, and theres plenty of 
video games in the lobby if you 
need them.
To this day, I still havent met 
anybody who bought any of the 
art hanging on the walls, but 
there is that one really nice Elvis 
print. One can always dream. 
Four stars (out of five); it would 
be higher, but its easier to get to 
the one in Monroeville.
Showcase Cinema West, 
Parkway West & Route 60, 
Robinson Township, 923-2760. 
Ditto the prices from above. For 
that matter, ditto the entire the
ater. As far as getting there goes,
take the Parkway West toward 
the airport. Get off at the Route 
60 exit (about a half-mile before 
you come to IKEA) and follow 
the neon optic assault the rest of 
the way. Ill give it four-and-ahalf stars; I docked it the last 
half-star because I have an un
pleasant memory of seeingiiome 
Alone there.
Regent Square Theatre, 
1035 S. Braddock Avenue, Edgewood, 241-2332. All shows are 
$3. Regent Square always holds 
special memories for me; being 
only three blocks from my house 
made it the place to go for a 
movie as a kid. The films used to 
be ultra-cheap (under $2), but 
came on a four-month lag from 
release date. As the price went 
up over the years, the lag dimin
ished Boyz N The Hood is the 
current movie playing  but $3
for a movie is still a bargain.
The theater itself is average; 
the seats arent as comfortable 
and the sound system isnt as 
strong as those of a cinema bun
ker, but it doesnt really matter. 
The theater has been and al
ways will be a one-screen 
moviehouse; ergo, the screen is 
nice and wide (unlike the walkin closets that masquerade as 
theaters at some places), and 
the acoustics have been tailored 
to make up for the lack of brute 
strength of the sound system.
The concession stand isnt as 
large as ones from other the
aters, but its not small enough 
to be a limiting factor for most 
people. Theyve got your stan
dard soda-popcom-candy spread 
(they added iced tea, which is a 
nice touch), so most people will 
be able to make it through.
If I were rating on an absolute 
level, Id give it three-and-a-half 
stars; however, my personal 
prejudice in favor of cost-effec
tiveness and nostalgia kicks it 
up to four-and-a-half.
Doherty Hall 2210, Doherty 
Hall, 268-3567 (FLMS). $1 ad
mission with CMU ID, $2 with
out ID. Dont let that 8:30 am 
physics lecture that you had in 
DH 2210 dissuade you; this is 
the best place around to see a 
film.
Its the only place, where you, 
the audience, get to assist in the 
running of the feature by yelling 
FOCUS! and SOUND! really 
loudly. Being helpful is its own
reward, isnt it?
The seating is comfortable, 
especially if you can stretch your 
feet over the row in front of you. 
The rising seats guarantee that 
you wont be looking at the back 
of anyones head (unless we have 
some 9' 6" freshmen registered). 
Concessions are rather limited, 
but the ability to bring your own 
food and drink (and believe me, 
many people do  either that or 
the beer elves are depositing 
Rolling Rock cans by magic) more
than makes up for the limited 
cuisine available. Combine all 
this with a selection of films that 
offers something for everyone, 
and you have a true five-star 
moviehouse.
Well, there you have it, the 
end of our celebration of the cin
ema. We hope this trilogy will be 
helpful as you decide not only 
what youre going to see, but 
where you want to see it. And if 
you want to hear about Hoi Lust
ful Honeys....
The Hostage captures opening night for CMU Drama
ByAMYPOTTHAST
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons Drama Depart
ment opens its 1991-92 season this 
Thursday with the rollicking Irish pro
duction of The Hostage by Brendan 
Behan. Inspired by the centuries-old 
Anglo-Irish conflict, the show combines 
the garrulous spirit of Irish tradition 
with a poignant message for peace and 
maturity. Directed by Associate Pro
fessor of Drama Barbara MacKenzieWood, and featuring senior Chadley 
Kelderman, the show is sure to be an 
exhilarating and thought-provoking 
artistic experience.
Set in a Dublin brothel, the play opens 
when an English soldier named Leslie 
is captured in Belfast by members of 
the Irish Republician Army, and held 
hostage in retaliation for previous vio
lence against them. Threatened with 
execution, the innocent soldier be
friends the whores of the household. As 
the play progresses, matters are com
plicated somewhat when the inhabit
ants of the brothel grow in sympathy 
and affection for their handsome young 
political prisoner.
The play, however, extends far be
yond a mere political saga set on stage.
 Theater Preview 
R6L 6SKR>qLP An English soldier is cap
tured by the IRA and held hostage. At the 
Kresge Theatre. Previews run from Thurs
day and Friday. Opening night is Saturday, 
with shows running until October 12. For 
ticket information, call the CFA Box Office 
at x2407.
The Irish passion soars in the seven
teen songs and Irish dances  includ
ing actor-audience sing-alongs, and 
dancing in the aisles. The fourth wall 
is gone. The audience has not been 
excluded, explained Kelderman, who 
plays the 70-year-old Monsewer, owner 
of the brothel. This play is definitely in 
the spirit of the Irish people. They were 
so oppressed, spirit was all they had. 
Of all the characters in the play, 
Keldermans Monsewer is probably one 
of the most interesting and most fun. 
Its my favorite role in the show, said 
Kelderman. The play is set in 1960, 
but my character is stuck in 1916. Hes 
in his own world  the only world he 
knows. He fought for Michael Collins 
on Bloody Sunday in the Easter Rising. 
Even though his father was British, 
Monsewer is committed to his [Irish]
mother and to Ireland. He goes around 
making plans for battles and has troop 
inspection [of the whores] once a week.
To better prepare themselves for such 
ideologically distant characters as those 
they are recreating, the cast members 
and director MacKenzie-Wood en
grossed themselves in Irish history, 
invited guests to speak on Ireland and 
the IRA, and visited Murphys Tavern, 
which hosts an Irish pub atmosphere 
every Sunday night. This deeper un
derstanding of the feel and legacy of the 
Irish will undoubtedly carry over into 
the performance, making it realistic 
even with its eccentricities.
According to MacKenzie-Wood, the 
auditions for The Hostage were held 
last spring, with rehearsals starting 
the first day back of this semester. 
Since the bulk of the cast are seniors, 
theyve been excused from afternoon 
classes through the opening of the show, 
allowing ample time to grow and de
velop their characters. Rehearsals have 
been every afternoon and every night. 
As rigorous as the schedule seems, 
Kelderman has enjoyed the extensive 
rehearsal time. It takes the pressure 
off, to have so much time [to get it 
right], he explains. And Barbara has 
a wonderful way of creating an atmo
sphere where you feel you can explore.
With the field research and the re
hearsal time, MacKenzie-Wood de
scribes the past four weeks as a real 
working experience. She adds, Im 
excited. I cant wait to see it all come 
together. The most important thing for 
me to remember as a director is to treat 
[the production] like itll never open. I 
have to keep the process as the primary 
focus.
The Hostage was first written in the 
late 1950s as a straight play, by 
Brendan Behan. Originally in Gaelic, 
Joan Littlewood encouraged Behan to 
translate the play into English. To
gether, the two helped the play explode 
into a Brechtian bonanza  adding 
music and dance, the presentational 
acting style, and a brilliant mixture of 
emotional highs and jolting intellec
tual realizations.
Through the plays reconstruction 
survived Behans most important mes
sage to his audience: war is futile. 
MacKenzie-Wood relates, Behan is 
sayingthat in this eye-for-an-eye, toothfor-a-tooth mentality, nothing can 
change. He encourages mankind to 
get past war, to get on with our lives. 
Innocent people are victims caught up 
in this ... dogmatic view of patriotism.
The Anglo-Irish conflict that Behan 
draws from is a perfect example for his 
argument. For almost a millennium, 
the Irish and English, Catholics and 
Protestants have clashed in bloody revo
lutions and violent disagreement, but 
little progress has been made to show 
for all the sacrifice. Kelderman puts 
the argument in more universal terms, 
saying Behans calling out for the world 
to stop. Behans play is a good parable 
for today as well. How many of todays 
kids want to go to war? Especially for 
causes they dont fully understand, 
asks Kelderman. And it is this more 
serious side of the play that makes it a 
must-see show.
Through Irish celebration and poli
tics, Behan draws out characteristic 
human hope and happiness, and the 
human need for healing the deep 
wounds caused by years and years of 
self-torment and war. Carnegie Mellons 
Drama Department has taken the piece 
to new heights, and has searched its 
deeper depths in the attempt to create 
art. Certainly they will succeed in their 
efforts.
Join the cast and crew of The Hostage 
at the Kresge this weekend to experi
ence the magic of this incredible show 
for yourself.
Soul music and Dublin make perfect harmony in The Commitments
By ANGELA KESLAR
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Director Alan Parker is very 
well known for being able to mold 
cinematic masterpieces out of 
raw talent, as was witnessed in 
the movies Fame, Midnight Ex
press, andBirdy. Parkers latest 
film, The Commitments, is a bril
liant addition to his repertoire.
With its cast of unknowns, all 
the Hollywood pretense is re
moved from this film. In turn, 
the audience can concentrate on 
Parkers presentation of the soulbuilding struggle of a band bring
ing soul music to their spiritu
ally dismal town of Dublin, 
rather than dealing with the 
stars egos.
The movie opens with Jimmy 
Rabbite (Robert Arkins) decid
ing that his hometown desper
ately needs some serious soul. 
So he places an ad in the local 
newspaper, headed: Have you 
got Soul? If so, then The Worlds 
Hardest Working Band is look
ing for you....  The result from 
this ad is quite humorous  
every type from Ozzy Osborne
 Movie Review 
))))R6L Sff/RfLBRKP The
story about a man who tries to 
bring soul music to Dublin. Star
ring Robert Arkins, Andrew Strong, 
Johnny Murphy, Michael Aherne, 
and Angellne Ball. Directed by Alan 
Parker.
disciples to Madonna wanna-be's 
show up at the audition, but no 
one with soul. So Jimmy ends up 
discovering the talent for his 
band rather fortuitously, find
ing people anywhere, from a 
wedding to a pawnbrokers shop.
As the band starts to take 
shape, Jimmy begins stressing 
that soul is the rhythm of sex, 
hoping to gear the group toward 
a communal feeling for soul. Al
though the members have their 
share of disagreements, they 
successfully crank out the gritty 
soul that Jimmy had been striv
ing for.
However, as the band starts to 
become popular, Jimmy gets lost 
in his dream of fame by pretend
ing that floods of famous talk 
show hosts are dying to inter
view him. He imagines the typi
cal question, So, Jimmy, tell 
me, did you ever dream the band 
would become this successful? 
Well, yes, Dick, I always had 
this dream and knew it would 
eventually come true. But 
Jimmys dream is never fulfilled, 
as the band inevitably breaks 
up and the various members go 
their own ways.
Everything in The Commit
ments works to its advantage 
from the lower-class setting to 
the thick Irish accents (which 
really add spice, once you catch 
on to their rhythm). The setting 
of working-class Dublin en
hances the gritty texture of the 
film. Its dinginess represents the 
obstacle which all dreams must 
overcome. Parkers refusal to a 
fairytale ending gives the audi
ence a jolting injection of stark 
reality.
These unknown Dublin actors 
doubly deserve the prestigious 
billing accorded to most famous 
American faces. They are thor
oughly convincing and project
David Appleby/1991 Beacon Communications Corp.
UnDe W>lainM Kuielo ,niceiY4 el
incredible amounts of infectious 
energy. Jimmy Rabbite is bril
liantly portrayed by newcomer 
Arkins. The headstrong lead 
singer, Deco (Andrew Strong), 
adds an especially gritty appeal. 
His sound is said to be reminis
cent of Joe Cocker, and rightly 
so  it grabs your soul and gets
4uCon sl The Commitments.
it groovin.
And finally comes the music, 
the heart and soul of this film. 
The Commitments crank out in
vigorating renditions of songs 
such as Mustang Sally, Hard 
to Handle, In the Midnight 
Hour, and Try a Little Tender
ness with so much power and
feeling that youll want to run 
out and buy the soundtrack the 
second after you see this film. 
With their throaty and sexy 
sound, these renditions rival the 
original versions.
Theres a lot to be said for raw 
talent and dreams and The Com
mitments says it all.i 1

---------------------------------------------------

L10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 September 1991
Joe Bob becomes addicted to Spencers Gifts
How many times has this hap
pened to you? Youre on the free. way, heading home from work, 
when all of a sudden you slap 
your forehead and realize that 
you forgot to go by Spencers 
Gifts before closing time and pick 
up all the stuff youll need for 
. the weekend.
I have to admit, its happened 
-to me. One day I broke my 
nekkid-lady back-scratcherit
- got these huge cracks across her 
upper thighs, like cellulite that 
registers on the Richter scale 
- and I didnt get to the mall to
 replace it for three days.
Or how about when one of your
 strobes goes out and you cant 
appreciate your black-light 
poster of Leonardo da Vinci 
standing on his head? This al
ways happens at mg7i/You cant 
exactly solve this problem at 
Seven-Eleven, can you? So what 
do you do?
Do what I do. Always buy seven 
or eight extra strobe lights ev
ery time you buy a new poster. 
Theres nothing worse than set' tling down to a round of drinks 
with friends, mixing up a Jack 
Daniels and Diet Dr. Pepper in 
one of those cocktail glasses 
where the stripper drops her top 
when you drink, flipping on a 
couple of lava lamps  and then 
having your strobe go dark right 
where you would normally be 
able to see the glistening surf on 
Christie Brinkleys scuba suit, if 
you know what I mean and I 
think you do.
It took me years to appreciate
- Spencers Gifts. For a long time 
I was like most people. I would 
spend 10,000 hours a year in 
that store, but I would never buy 
anything. In fact, I never saw 
anybody else buy anything, even 
though I stood around the Inte
rior Design department all day 
long waiting to find out who it is 
that buys those twisted Pepsi 
bottles and the posters of gay 
guys stuffing sausages down 
their pants.
But then one day I saw an 
item I couldnt resist: a baseball 
cap with seagull doo-doo on the 
brim. I mean, it wasnt real 
seagull doo-doo. They havent 
perfected the technology for that 
yet. It was this realistic artifi
cial seagull doo-doo, and on the 
front of the hat it said I Hate 
Seagulls. And I would have to 
say that that one hat has re
sulted in more conversations 
with strangers and lasting 
friendships than anything else 
in my life. Theres something 
about a man with doo-doo on his 
head that people just cant re
sist. Or, as we used to say in
JOE BOB GOES TO 
THE DRIVE-IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
West Texas, The whole world 
loves a Doo-doo Brain.
How about those books that 
illustrate all the sexual positions 
in cartoon form? After studying 
all those books, Ive had more 
than one woman say to me, 
Thats funny  Ive never seen 
that before.
And where else can you go to 
get really durable chattering 
teeth? The kind that wont stop 
chattering after you wind em 
up twice. The kind that you can 
put on your bosss desk, and three 
days later you can go in there 
and hell still be trying to catch 
the teeth and break em apart 
with a baseball bat.
In fact, I dont shop anywhere 
else anymore. As I was saying to 
Wanda Bodine the other day, 
Its the only store where you 
can buy a Nixon mask even when 
its not Halloween.
Wait till the Russian people 
find out about this.
Speaking of the greatest 
achievements of the seventies, 
Howling VI is out, just in time 
for you to realize that you havent 
seen Howling II, III, IV or V. 
You know, there are sequels and 
then there are sequels. Some 
people, like the creators of Fri
day the 13th, make the same 
movie over and over again. Oth
ers, like the Halloween people, 
have to keep inventing new rela
tives for Michael Meyers to come 
back and kill. But the two guys 
who own the rights to The Howl
ing just make up a whole new 
movie every time! Even if the last 
one was a complete turkey that 
bombed on four continents!
These are obviously my kind 
of guys. I wonder if they sit in a 
room somewhere going, I have 
this great idea for a movie. A 
Southern plantation owner falls 
in love with one of his black 
slaves. What will we call it? Of 
course! Why not? The Howling 
VI. In fact, I think all movies 
should have the word Howling 
somewhere in the title!
But now heres the even more 
amazing news: Howling VI is 
the best one theyve ever made!
You scoff. Maybe you saw the 
one they made in Australia, the 
one so boring people in the Phil
ippines wouldnt watch it. Or 
how about the one with Sybil 
Danning, where the scariest 
scene came when she kissed 
Christopher Lee on the Ups? Or 
the Agatha Christie-type Howl
ing which gathered together the 
worlds lamest actors in a Yugo
slavian castle.
But this time they finally score. 
A freak show rolls into a little 
California town where the or
chards are drying up and 
everythings falling apart, and 
about the same time Brendan 
Hughes straggles into town look
ing like a crackhead whos been 
trying to give himself a haircut.
Of course, we have a pretty 
good idea who the werewolves 
are in this picture: the guys with 
the British accents. While the 
freak show is settingup its tents, 
Brendan starts getting a little 
wolfy, but not before hes fallen 
in love with the preachers 
daughter and befriended a de
formed crater-face freak with a 
pet cat. The way he turns into a 
werewolf is a little different in 
every movie, and I didnt quite 
get it in this one, but evidently it 
has something to do with a full 
moon, a crystal, a family curse, 
and an ancient vampires devil 
chant.
Anyhow, its the old good 
werewolf/bad werewolf story, 
except in this case the evil freak 
show owner might be a vampire 
instead of a werewolf, Im not 
completely sure ... I really did 
watch this movie, I swear.
Seven dead bodies. One dead 
cat. No breasts. Mutants-in-ajar. Pickled giraffe-necked lady. 
Live chicken-neck chomping. 
Pickled penguin girl. Cat-throw
ing. Three werewolf transforma
tion scenes. Mutilated livestock. 
Steelspike torture. Pickled turtle 
boy. Sheriff-eating. Gratuitous 
gospel-music montage. Gratu
itous Carol Lynley (looking like 
she could scare a buzzard off a 
meat wagon). Fang Fu. Worm 
Fu. Demon Fu. Drive-In Acad
emy Award nominations for 
Bruce Martyn Payne, as Harker 
the freak show owner, for saying 
Youre the worst kind of freak, 
one who tries to control it and
EARN FREE SPRING BREAK VACATIONS
plus EXTRA CASH 
student representatives wanted 
VACATIONS AVAILABLE TOO 
Cancn - Daytona Beach 
Nassau - Puerta Vallarta
sZZtl-----
4Carng iMaoUvt
3ost Programs and Vacations Availabli
1 -BOO-222-MAJOR (6256)
6C-n 8eN leusDna meM1 C4 usYn oen4 el1 MninMeh-n4 heeI Yein Cla Yein hsIn rsY feiis4el7 mnDI eNu 
ums4 oN8 cieY The Howling VI.
Ladies and gentlemen, its time 
to meet the devil!; Sean Gre
gory Sullivan, as the Alligator 
Boy, for saying But I dont 
wanna look like this!; Deep Roy, 
as a three-armed midget; Chris
topher Morley, as a split-downthe-middle hermaphrodite; An
tonio Fargas, as the geek;
Brendan Hughes, as the sensi
tive, misunderstood werewolf, 
for saying You see, Sheriff, Im 
the new entertainment; Jered 
Barclay, as a dimwit preacher, 
for saying Satans work shall 
not go unpunished!; Michele 
Matheson, as the local girl who 
learns to love a werewolf, for
saying But hell kill you!; $Jid 
Hope Perello, the director,!for 
doing it the drive-in way. !"
Four stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only Drive-In movie critic from 
Grapevine, Texas.
HELP WANTED
1. Would you Ilk to woik (or 
youreolf?
1 2. Would you Ilk# to set your own 
hour?
3. Are you aelf-motivatid?
4. Ar# you a bit of an entrepreneur?
II you anewered YES to all of the above, 
you ar# just th# p#r#on w#'r# looking fori 
Ae an American Panag# Campus Repre*entatlv8, you will b# responsible for 
placing advertising on bulletin board#. 
You will aliohav# the opportunity to wo tfc 
on marketing program# for such client# 
os American Express,Ford, IBMandAT&T. 
There are no ale# invohr#d. Many of our 
rep# etay with u# long attar graduation. 
For more Information, call or writ# u# at 
the following address:
>fL3/>B b>KK>qL 
BLRxS3T
1-800-487-2434
The London
Theatre Program
of SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE and the 
BRITISH AMERICAN DRAMA ACADEMY
A unique opportunity for college students to study 
with Britains leading actors and directors. Acting study 
and performance, supplemented by academic work. Full 
academic credit is provided for either a semester or a year. 
For details and an application, write:
The London Theatre Program, Box 
Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, N. Y. 10708.
Carol Peluso 
Costumes
115 Meyran Ave. 
Oakland 
Formerly H & R Block
SALES
Costumes  Masks  Wigs  
Jewelry  Vintage Clothing 
 Makeup
* STUDENT DISCOUNT * 
The Philip Pglisi8 salons offer great savings 
to students. Get the internationally acclaimed 
Volumetric haircut and related services for just
 *. $16.95<1
W (Men and Women) ^
Every haircut appointment includes consultation, 
shampooing, conditioning, blow dry and styling. 
Present your student ID to receive your discount. Not 
valid with any other offer and does not include a 
haircut by Philip Peiusi or Saion Style Director. One 
Oxford Centre Salon offer valid Monday thru 
Saturday 2:00 to 4:00 and 7:00 to 9:00 P.M.
Squirrel Hill 521-1200 T Village Square Mall 833-6770 *
One Oxford Centre 261-6550 W Westmoreland Mall 836-6670 ?
Century III Mall 655-1940 Ross Park Mall 366-1555
felien-shhn fChh 9 F v j F G v yOperrEvening? and Sundays. (Not open Sunday Oxford Salon only). Appointments not always necessary.
leUhlOelReMl nluin F jyvyH
Sponsored by Student Health Service. Division of Student Affairs. Medchek Laboratories. Department of Athletics. Carnegie Mellon Dining Service
CALL 935-6100 IDEAL "DRY RUSH" PARTIES GROUPS OR INDIVIDUALS GAMES HELD EVERY WEEKEND Check out our new "Speedball Arena"
Be Smart! HeVPNUr He*rfr
I NEED A 
SURVIVAL 
GAME... 
BAD!
THREE
RIVERS
SURVIVAL
GAME'eat/*
FREE
Cholesterol Screening 
Consults with Nutritionist 
Consults with Fitness Instructor
for ALL undergraduate & graduate students
alt participants eligible for raffle prizes!
West Wing Resnik Hall, T. V. Room 
September 24, 1991 
10 am - 2 pm

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, September 26
The General
Those who enjoy movies from Hollywoods nos
talgic years will enjoy this 1927 film. The Generals 
plot revolves around the Civil War, but does not 
dramatize the war as in later movies, such as Gone 
With the Wind.
Buster Keaton stars as an engineer whose steam 
locomotive has been stolen. Keatons attempts at 
finding his locomotive are very Chaplinesque and 
overdone, making the Civil War look like a childs 
game in the background.
In addition to the well-written story and excep
tional directing by Keaton are the acrobatics per
formed by the main character. This old-fashioned 
Hollywood classic is definitely worth the dollar.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, September 27
The Silence of the LambsI --------
Dr. Hannibal Lechter is by far the creepiest 
monster to ever turn up in a movie. Freddy Kreuger 
and creatures of that ilk cant hold a candle to the 
one-time psychiatrist who would pass up any Julia 
Child creation for a hunk of human liver, extra 
rare.
Jodie Poster plays the unfortunate FBI agent 
recruited to help solve a string of murders. The FBI 
knows precious little about the killer they call 
Buffalo Bill, who has been killing and skinning 
women. However, Bill goes too far when he kidnaps 
a politicians daughter, causing the Bureau to take 
more radical action. So Foster is sent to pump 
Lechter for information about Bill. This sets the 
stage for a tense and eerie cat-and-mouse game 
between the FBI agent and the coolly demonic 
Lechter.
Foster does a bang up j ob as the rookie agent who 
 quickly learns to deal with Lechter better than 
anyone else. However, its Anthony Hopkins as the 
demented cannibal who makes the movie a heartstopping thriller. Despite the movies many morbid 
subjects, the filmmakers go easy on the graphic 
violence. However, the film still wont be easy for 
everyone to watch. The Silence of the Lambs is 
worth well over a dollar for those who can take it.
At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, September 28
Edward Scissorhands
What happens when a half-mechanical being 
with scissors as hands is integrated into a happily 
conformist American neighborhood? Find out this 
Friday night when DH 2210 brings Tim Burtons 
modern day fairy tale Edward Scissorhands to you. 
With an all-star cast in a pastel-painted suburbia, 
this film weaves a charming and realistic love story 
through the facade of concrete fantasy.
Watch love triumph over evil, materialism, and 
peer pressure. See the incredible makeup, artwork, 
and stunning visual effects. Witness beautiful 
Johnny Depp and cult queen Winona Ryder fall in 
love against all social odds. Check out this pic and 
youll be able to sleep Saturday night secure in the 
knowledge that your dollar was well spent.
At 6, 8,10,12
Sunday, September 29
Eddie and the Cruisers
Eddies dead  or is he? Thats the question 
Eddie and the Cruisers tries to answer.
Shown mostly in flashbacks, the movie tells the 
story of a small rock band in the early 1960s, 
focusing on the relationship between the bands 
hoodish lead singer and the bookish lyricist/key
board player. The film follows the bands success 
and the subsequent death/suicide of the lead singer. 
Theres also a mystery surrounding the location of 
the unreleased master tapes of the last album the 
band made that sets the plot in motion.
Even though the plot often seems to be a device 
to string together a lot of songs, the film does have 
a lot of great music in it. So if youre in the mood for 
some good old-fashioned rock n roll, then this 
movie is definitely worth your dollar.
At 6, 8,10,12
By MARNI BOREK, JENNIFER FORBES,
TERRI KASCH, AMY POTTHAST
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  23 September 1991Lll
Give the Bundys a chance
Let me start off by saying that 
I like television. A whole lot. I 
like a lot of different kinds of 
shows. I enjoy high-quality dra
mas; I revel in dumb sitcoms; 
Im fascinated by silly game 
shows. I like good shows; I like 
bad shows. I dont like every
thing, but Im willing to give 
everything a chance.
My taste in television is not 
exclusive and not terribly sensi
tive. I am used to the fact that 
not everyone shares my likes 
and dislikes, and I can even take 
a little criticism. Rarely do I feel 
the obligation to defend a show I 
like.
But Married... with Children 
needs defending.
This whole mess started when 
a female friend complimented 
me on my Full House article (in 
which, some of you may recall, I 
unleashed a scathing, highly 
personal, and probably largely 
undeserved attack on Bob Saget 
and his TV family) and asked 
me when I would launch a simi
lar missile on Married.
What could I say? Staring at 
the ground, I muttered quietly, 
Well, actually, I sort of, um, 
like Married ... with Children.
She was a little surprised at 
first, but after a bit of thought, 
she told me that my fondness for 
the show was understandable; 
After all, she pointed out, 
youre a guy.
Now, I am male. That is an 
undeniable biological truth that 
I cannot refute. But to be ac
cused of being stereotypically 
male is another thing entirely. I 
do not turn on the Bundys every 
Sunday to check out the 
bodacious babes. And while 
there is almost certainly a con
tingent of drooling heterosexual 
males tuning in to lust over 
Kelly, I believe that they make 
up a small minority of this shows 
audience.
I admit that Married ... with 
Children is sexist  incredibly 
so. Daughter Kelly is a stereo
typical dumb blonde bombshell, 
no holds barred. She is little 
more than a slow-witted sex ob
ject.
But tell me; is there a characTHE LAUGH TRACK
by A. Franklin Wheeler
ter on this program that is not 
stereotypical? That is not com
pletely pathetic? That is not 
meant to be an object of the 
audiences laughter and scorn?
Take A1 Bundy, the American 
anti-hero. A hopeless loser stuck 
in a low-paying job, he hates 
everything about his current life 
and yearns for the glory days of 
high school. His life consists of 
going to work, yelling at his fam
ily, giving them all his money, 
and sitting on the toilet (one of 
the few activities he truly en
joys). A1 hit rock-bottom long 
ago, but he still manages to find 
ways to sink lower.
His wife Peg is a lazy house
wife who does nothing but watch 
daytime TV and shop. She hates 
Al, putting up with him only 
because he brings home a pay
check and periodically provides 
an outlet for her sexual desires 
(much to Als dismay). She 
doesnt care about anyone but 
herself and isnt afraid to let 
anyone know that.
Teenage son Bud has become 
quite a raving sex maniac re
cently. With hormones in over
drive, he pursues any (unrelated) 
female that moves, usually to no 
avail. He is slowly gaining the 
senseless male bravado that de
stroyed his father, while losing 
any hope for success in adult 
life. He knows this, but doesnt 
seem to care.
Even the Bundys neighbors 
are pathetic. Marcy is a venge
ful, jealous woman who is con
stantly begging for attention and 
love. If, at any given moment, 
she is happy, you can guarantee 
that she will be emotionally de
stroyed in some fashion by the 
end of the episode. Her new hus
band is a shallow hunk who con
stantly ogles other women while
DELIVERY
DRIVERS
If you can provide friendly and reliable service. Pizza 
Hut wants you. We currently have full & part time 
openings for Delivery Drivers.
You'll enjoy:
 Earnings potential (Up to $8/hr. & Greater)
 Bonus for accident-free drivers
 Flexible hours
If you are 18 years of age, have a good driving record, a 
reliable car, and can document your insurance coverage, 
we would like to talk to you.
Call or visit the following delivery units in your area.
4710 Baum Rd. 
Oakland 
683-6300
4048 Beechwood Blvd. 2175 S. Highland 
Greenfield Shadyside
421-1111 361-4212
'Hut.
ranopn
1991 Pizza Hut, Inc.
YOU BELONG WITH THE BEST
Equal Opportunity Employer m/f/h
simultaneously professing his 
undying love to his believing 
wife.
Every character in this pro
gram is a loser, a hopeless 
shadow of a person, full of bit
terness and hate. They are all 
stuck in lives unimaginably 
bleak, with no hope for the fu
ture. Weighed down with selfpity, they turn on each other, 
exchanging venomous insults 
and horrible accusations.
And we laugh. We laugh at 
their twisted lives because we 
know that our lives could never 
be that bad. Thats the whole 
point: Married... with Children 
is a fantasy. There is no one in 
this world nearly as dumb as 
Kelly, as sex-crazed as Bud, as 
lazy as Peg, or as pathetic as Al.
Everyone on this program is a 
stereotype personified, a one
sided character extended to ri
diculous proportions. When we 
laugh, were not laughing at a 
person, but at an attitude, a way 
of thinking.
In a sense, were laughing at 
ourselves. Married... with Chil
dren takes our little irrational 
beliefs and biases and magnifies 
them, making them look com
pletely ridiculous. Yes, its sex
ist  and racist, and homophonic; its a hateful show. But these 
hatreds are so explicit, so large, 
so out in the open, that they end 
up looking ludicrous.
So, no, I do not enjoy Married 
... with Children because I am a 
guy. I enjoy it because it pokes 
fun at things that need to be 
laughed at, and ridicules things 
that need to be ridiculed.
I can already hear my critics 
retorts. Sure, sure, Married ... 
with Children is socially con
scious, and Penthouse has great 
articles. If that is really the case, 
why dont we see women flock
ing to the TV set? And where is 
the praise that should be cas
cading down upon this great 
program from all sides? 
Hmmm?
Please dont misunderstand. 
Im not saying that you should 
like the show; there are plenty of 
reasons not to like it. I know a lot 
of people, both male and female, 
who dislike the program (and 
several women who enjoy it, by 
the way).
Even I must admit that the 
constant put-downs and taste
less jokes get land of tedious, if 
not downright degrading, after 
a while. Its cheap, loud, and 
offensive, and it isnt too likely 
to go down in the annals of TV 
history as a classic.
All I ask is that you be honest 
about your dislike for it. If you 
hate it because it just isnt funny, 
thats fine. But if you hate it 
because its degrading to women 
(or degrading to men, for that 
matter), then youre missing the 
big picture. All that Im saying, 
is give Married a chance.
Tartan senior staffwriter A. 
Franklin Wheeler is a senior pro
fessional writing major.
FREE CATALOG
3S p319KIR9I6 o33m/
Send for your copy today!
Free Catalog
Box 37000 Washington DC 20013-7000
/
ENGINEERING
COMPUTER SCIENCE
iMm\MGEOSCIENCE
/
/
Please Note: Open to all
interested students. Your 
attendance at the Information 
Meeting is a prerequisite to your 
interviewing process. Please 
attend: Refreshments provided! 
Casual attire.
INFORMATION MEETING: 
Date: October 7, 1991 
Time: 6:30pm - 8:30pm 
Place: Skibo Rooms 105/106
INTERVIEWING:
Date: October 8, 1991 
Place: Check with Placement 
Office
Schlumberger Industries, Schlumberger 
Technologies and Schlumberger Oilfield 
Services are equal opportunity 
employers.
APPLIED SCIENCE
A;; Individual initiative has always 
% ' played a major role in
Schlumberger s growth and 
technological leadership. Today, 
Schlumberger employs 53,000 
people in 97 countries with annual 
revenues in excess of $5 billion.
Schlumberger is comprised of two 
main business groups: oilfield 
services, which offers a complete 
range of energy exploration and 
recovery services; and 
Measurement and Systems which 
produces everything from utility 
meters to CAD/CAM systems.
The Schlumberger Companies 
value individual initiative.
If you'd rather lead than follow, 
and enjoy the recognition that goes 
along with taking responsibility for 
the work you direct, contact us 
today. We'll give you the support, 
training and opportunity you need 
to meet the challenge.
Schlumberger
Founded On Innovation. 
Expanded Through Technology. 
Worldwide.
emu
When: Sat, Sept 28, 8pm-Midnight 
Where: Wherrett Room in Skibo 
Phone: Call x8794 for more information 
Price: $2 with CMU/Pitt ID, $3 without 
Music: By WRCT ^ *
> ^*7ITwT G
unP$AsCl4jqC84js4n5NCh4jcisnlhP$ xnhDeYn;ej4,el4eina A8 bsuu Osq>u>;gNlana A8 8eNi >Dus-susn4 c

---------------------------------------------------

UNI V ERS
D 1991 Orion Pictures Corporation 
hCisDn KuCihslo Wreasn ge4uni n5CYsln4 C Yeum sl The Silence of The Lambs, MmsDm 
Mshh ,hC8 sl U6 vvty el gisaC8 Cu k1 1ty1 Cla YsalsomuP
presented today through Thursday at 
the William Pitt Union Assembly Room 
from 11 am to 3:30 pm each day. Mon
day: Graduate and Professional Schools 
Fair; Tuesday: Careers in Government, 
Law, and Public Service; Wednesday: 
Careers in Health, Education, and So
cial Service; Thursday: Careers in Busi
ness, Management, and Communica
tions. A workshop entitled Getting 
Your Career in Gear: The Tools You 
Need to Find a Job You Like will be 
presented on Thursday from noon to 
1:30 pm in Dining Room A. The semi
nars are free and open to everyone. For 
more information, call 648-7930.
cmuOUT will holds its weekly busi
ness meeting tonight at 7 pm in BH 
254C.
The Chess Club meets every Monday 
and Thursday in Skibo 201 or 112 from
7-10 pm to play informal games and 
organize teams.
The Counseling Center is forming 
new groups for the 1991-92 school year. 
All meetings are in the New Dorm Tech 
Lounge at 5:30 pm. Mondays: Fresh 
Start, a stress reduction workshop; 
Tuesdays: International Stew, a sup
port group for students of various cul
tures; Wednesdays: Good Company, a 
support group focusing on relationships. 
Running Scared? is a support group for 
graduate students; the meeting time 
and place will be announced. For more 
information on how to join these groups, 
call Lynn at x2922.
Foreign Language Tables, in con
junction with the Modern Languages 
Department, will be held each week in 
the Morewood Gardens Caftria, ex
cept where noted. Tuesdays: II Circolo 
Italiano (Italian) from 11:30 am to 1 
pm; La Table Franaise (French) from 
11:30 am to 1 pm; La Mesa Espaola 
(Spanish) from 1-2 pm. Wednesdays: 
Russkii Chas (Russian) from noon to 
1:30 pm; Bentoo Lunch o nihongo de 
(Japanese) at noon in BH 228A. Please 
order lunch for the Jap anese table Tues
days in BH 160. Cost is $3. Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch (German) from 
11:30 am to 1 pm.
The Juggling Club meets every Tues
day and Saturday in Gray Matter from 
4:30-9:30 pm to teach and learn jug
gling and all related arts.
Student Pugwash will hold an intro
ductory meeting on Wednesday at 4:30 
pm in PH 125C to go over their goals for
Admission to all DH2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films is 
$3, unless otherwise specified.
Cross My Heart will play each night at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse through Oc
tober 2. All shows are at 7 and 9 pm and 
admission is $4.
Blowup will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse tonight at 7:30 and 9:40 pm.
Millers Crossing will play at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse on Tuesday at 7:30 
and 9:40 pm.
The Nasty Girl will play at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse on Wednesday at 7:30 
and 9:30 pm.
The General will play in DH 2210 on 
Thursday at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
Mr. and Mrs. Bridge will play at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse on Thursday at 
7:30 and 9:45 pm.
The Silence of The Lambs will play 
in DH 2210 on Friday at 6, 8,10, and 
midnight.
My Beautiful Laundrette will play 
on Friday at 7:30 pm in Baker 254C. 
Sponsored by cmuOUT.
The 23rd International Tournee of 
Animation will play each night at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse starting Friday 
through October 3. All shows are at 
7:30 and 9:30 pm; an additional show at 
11:30 pm will be held on Friday and 
Saturday. Admission is $4.
Edward Scissorhands will play in 
DH 2210 on Saturday at 6, 8, 10, and 
midnight.
Eddie and the Cruisers will play in 
DH 2210 on Sunday at 6, 8, 10, and 
midnight.
the semester. A slide show will be pre
sented by CMU student Jim Vierengel 
on his summer trip to Eastern Europe.
FRINGE will hold a general meeting 
on Wednesday at 9 pm in Skibo 201. 
For more information, call Julie Reker 
at x4443.
A Barbecue will be held in the Hillel 
sukkah on Thursday at 5 pm. The 
sukkah is located in the courtyard in 
front of the Jewish Student Associa
tion House, 131 Margaret Morrison 
Apartments. Cost is free for seniors; $3 
for everyone else.
Felafel Night will be held on Thurs
day at 5:30 pm in Skibo 201. Cost is $2; 
the event is sponsored by Chabad 
House, Hillel, and Masada. For more 
information, contact Fraydi Silverman 
at 683-7770 or 521-0770.
Voices United Gospel Choir holds 
weekly rehearsals every Friday from
5-7 pm in MM 210. All are welcome. 
For more information, call Tara 
Haughton at x4580.
Pittsburgh Singles Sixth Annual 
Benefit Dance for the American Can
cer Society will be held on Friday at the 
Greentree Holiday Inn from 8:30 pm to 
1:30 am. Sponsored by the Catholic 
Alumni Club of Pittsburgh, the dance 
is open to everyone and door prizes will 
be awarded. Tickets are $10 in advance 
or $12 at the door. For tickets or more 
information, call 486-4732 or 341-4070.
A Demonstration of LIS II will be 
held in the Media Classroom on the 
lower level of Hunt Library on Friday 
from noon to 1 pm and is open to the 
campus community.
The cmuOUT dance (cosponsored by 
Pitt BiGALA) will be held Saturday 
from 8 pm to midnight in the Wherrett 
Room. Music by WRCT. Admission is 
$2 with CMU or Pitt ID; $3 otherwise. 
For more information, call cmuOUT at 
x8794.
A Bagel Brunch will be held in the 
Hillel sukkah on Sunday at 12:30 pm. 
Cost is free for Hillel members and $1 
for non-members.
those who worship, serve, and fellow
ship there. They hold services on Sun
days with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a 
college class at 9:30 am, and morning 
worship at 11 am in their chapel lo
cated at the corner of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also 
held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more 
information, contact campus minister 
Hank Suhr at 621-4361.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors doeuvres) 
at 6 pm, services at 6:30 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
Carnegie Music Hall at 8 pm on Sun
day. Admission is $5; $2.50 with CMU 
student ID.
Theater
The Hostage, by Brendan Behan, will 
debut in the Kresge Theatre starting 
Thursday through October 12. Previews 
will be held this Thursday and Friday; 
matinees are September 28, October 5, 
and October 12. For ticket information, 
call x2407.
Re-Flux in Pittsburgh: An Art Tele
communications Event, a learning 
environment for decentralized inter
change, will continue in the Hewlett 
Gallery through Sunday. Studio for 
Creative Inquiry Fellow Artur Matuck 
will head an interchange with several 
cities around the world. Hours are 11:30 
am to 5 pm and 7:30-8:30 pm Tuesday 
through Friday; 14 pm and 7:30-8:30 
pm Saturday. A reception will be held 
on Friday from 7-9 pm.
Casual Classics Lecture Luncheon 
on Romeo and Juliet, sponsored by 
the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre, will be 
held at the PBT Studios in the Strip 
District on Thursday at 11:30 am. For 
more information, call 281-0360.
Romeo and Juliet will be performed 
by the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre at the 
Benedum Center in downtown Pitts
burgh from October 3-6. For ticket in
formation, call 456-6666.
Lectures
1991 Career Seminars, sponsored by 
the University of Pittsburgh, will be
Sukkot (Jewish Harvest Festival)
begins today and lasts until October 1. 
All are welcome to see and come inside 
the Hillel sukkah located in the court
yard in front of the Jewish Student 
Association House, 131 Margaret 
Morrison Apartments. Alulav and etrog 
will be available at the JSA House. Any 
students interested in eating their 
meals in the sukkah should contact 
Cindy Goodman-Leib at 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through 
Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated 
at 7 pm Saturday and at 10:30 am 
Sunday in the Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration auditorium. 
For more information, call the Oratory 
at 681-3181.
The Church of the Ascension (Epis
copal) welcomes all students to join
Room for Thought: Capacity Con
straints on Comprehension and 
Problem Solving will be presented 
by Dr. Marcel A. Just at noon on Thurs
day in the Adamson Wing of Baker 
Hall. Coffee will be served beforehand 
in the Psychology lounge in BH 336D. 
For more information, call x2781 or 
x2782. Sponsored by the Psychology 
Department Colloquium Series.
Sports
Cuarteto Latinoamericano will 
present a concert in the Mellon Insti
tute auditorium at 8 pm on Tuesday. 
Admission is $15.
Mikhail Yanavitsky, of the Gorell 
Young Artist Series, will perform on 
the piano in the Mellon Institute audi
torium at 8 pm on Wednesday. Admis
sion is $10.
The Pittsburgh Symphony, con
ducted by Lorin Maazel, will perform 
The Music of Mendelssohn and Herbert 
on Thursday evening. Assistant Con
ductor Barbara Yahr will present In
troduction to Music Series, a 45-minute 
pre-concert class on classical music. 
For more information, call 392-4900.
SPIC-MACAY (Society for the Promo
tion of Indian Classical Music and Cul
ture Amongst Youth) will present a 
free concert and demonstration featur
ing L. Subramaniam, Indian Classical 
Violin Virtuoso, accompanied by T.S. 
Subashchandran on the ghatam and 
vocals and V. Venkataraman on the 
mridangam in the Mellon Institute 
auditorium on Friday at 7 pm. For 
more information, call 361-5101 or 363- 
8420.
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic 
Orchestra, conducted by Juan Pablo 
Izquierdo, will present a concert at the
For more information on all sports 
events, call the Sports Information Di
rector at x3087.
The mens cross-country team hosts 
Geneva College on Saturday morning 
at 11 am.
The womens cross-country team 
travels to lower central PA to compete 
in the Dickinson College Invitational 
at noon on Saturday.
The football team plays against 
Duquesne University on Saturday 
at 7 pm.
The mens soccer team competes in 
Gesling Stadium against Brandeis Uni
versity on Friday at 7:30 pm and with 
the University of Rochester on Sunday 
at 1:30 pm.
The womens soccer teamhosts California University of PA on Saturday at 
7 pm.
The womens tennis team serves 
Waynesburg College today at 4 pm. 
They travel to Penn State-Behrend 
College on Saturday at 11 am and to 
Gannon University on Sunday at 11
The womens volleyball team trav
els a few blocks away from campus to 
compete against Carlow College and 
Seton Hill College today at 6 pm. They 
will then spend the weekend at Wash
ington University competing in the UAA 
Round Robin Tournament.
Please send a name, phone num
ber, and/or email address when 
submitting entries to Calendar for 
verification and questioning pur
poses. Also, please specify whether 
the event occurs weekly.
Hey Tom,
Did you get into a little of 
that Bonnie & Clyde action 
over the weekend?
Heh heh heh. Guess not if 
she can still walk.
 yfex-sra
wife
I miss you.
and you owe me dinner.
(hint hint hint) 
hubby
Okay, so it was brunch....
C.B.,
Youre right, Ill never guess. 
How about a hint?
Melissa
Hey Goober, is (it better to be 
NEGATIVE or'POSITIVE in 
this contest?
Jessica,
You back from Germany 
yet? I havent- seen' you any
where. Give me a call.
 Scott
Jaret and Josh...
Your A-tower admirers are 
jealous...What can you show 
us???
A-tower does it better than 
C-tower.
You wanna play rough?
Say hellb to my LITTLE friend.
THE BQUOTE OF THE WEEK:
, I could 'have made him so 
happy. Now Im going to make 
many men pretty happy.
Uh. Hold on. Can we start out 
with a review of derivatives first? 
Hey Uncle Jon, wanna go see 
Awakenings? 
Hey Wendy!
Its our pig pen, and we will 
wallow in it if we please....
 Jess
Yo, Todd 
Didch learn anything from 
that new TA or is she just like 
Julie?
just curious
PITT JOKE:
Q: Whyd the Pitt student cross 
the road?
A: For a grade.
... from one who knows 
*grin*
Gabrielle,
Forgive me.
Im an ass.
Arm and
Thanks guys, for naming your 
soccer team fter me. Go 
LOMBARDIS!
 Linda
Darren has the hots for Debbie 
anyway....
To all CMU newcomers:
WHAT THE HELL WERE 
YOU THINKING?!?!
Zeke, Kro, Rat or Donut ^(which
ever you prefer), Hoss, Swill, 
and Prez:
Nice Beaver!
Love,
The Stealth
HEY, SUMMER 1991 DLISTERS!
What? Now that the summers 
over, no one sends email any
more? Im lonely!
Revenge
Intramural coed naked soccer 
games are being held nightly in 
the 3rd floor hallway of Donner 
Hall. CaU John at X4084 for 
more information and sign-up 
sheets.
 The Lombardis
1. Can You Stop the Rain  
Peabo Bryson
2. Dont Want to Be A Fool  
Luther Vandross
3. Thats The Way Love Goes
 Young M.C.
To the TECHNO TERROR
ISTS Matt, Dave, and Sean: 
You guys are great DJs! 
The fiesta wouldnt have been 
the same without you. Thanks 
to you and WRCT.
 la casa espaola
Knla 8eNi ChnlaCi Cla e5 be,Nhs 
4NAYs44sel4 ue' ChnlaCi Lasuei1 Rmn 
RCiuCl1 KIsAe /lceiYCusel Un4IP 2eN 
DCl Ch4e aie, 4NAYs44sel4 -sC 
>,,hnKmCin sl umn ChnlaCi Cla e5 
be,Nhs aie, cehani4 el Rmn RCiuCl*4 
4ni-ni sl umn KIsAe .elnP bhnC4n hsYsu 
4NAYs44sel4 ue Gy Meia4 ei hn44P UnCa0
hsln s4 G ,Y RmNi4aC84( 4,CDn s4 hsYsuna 
Cla ,hCDnYnlu s4 leu oNCiClunnaP Sisos0
lCh 4NAYs44sel4 DClleu An inuNilnaP
