Inside
http://tartan.web.cmu.edu
Diversions
Filming on campus 
 see page L7
Features
Stop complaining! 
 see page LI
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Editor
Forum
Writer sees Red 
 see page 4THE TARTAN
Volume 93, Issue 15Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 19061 February 1999
Lecturer offers new perspective on Cold War tactics
Lilly Rouhani/Tartan Photo Staff 
Sergei Khrushchev speaks about the Cold War and his fathers policies.
GSIA offers new degree 
in electronic commerce
ByBECCAFREBUSH
Tartan Copy Manager
One might not expect many CMU stu
dents to voluntarily attend a history 
lecture on a sunny Friday afternoon. Yet 
when Sergei Khrushchev, son of former 
Soviet prime minister Nikita 
Khrushchev, came to campus last Fri
day, he drew a full house.
So many people attended, in fact, that 
the organizers had to move the lecture 
from the Singleton Room in Roberts Hall 
to the larger Porter Hall 100.
Even still, some of the roughly 300 
people who came had no choice but to 
cram into the aisles and the space in the 
back of the room.
Khrushchev, who is currently a 
senior fellow at Brown University, is a 
political scientist and engineer who par
ticipated in Soviet space and military 
programs during the Cold War. 
His speech, called War & Peace: 1953- 
1964 and presented by the History 
Departments Program for Cold 
War Science & Technology, used 
his personal experience and his perspec
tive on his fathers life to shed light
on Soviet military policies in the 
1950s and 60s.
History is a tricky thing, said 
Khrushchev at the beginning of his 
speech. From one side it is reflections of 
reality. From the other side, it is also 
stories, imaginations, misunderstand
ing. In presenting his Soviet perspec
tive on the Cold War to an audience 
whose members likely were exposed to a 
more American view, he provided a fresh 
look at some seemingly familiar history.
He drew a portrait of his father 
as a pragmatic reformer who simply 
wanted his nation to be considered the 
equal of the United States and who, 
bucking the Cold War obsession with 
military build-up on both sides, wanted 
to withdraw money from the military 
and put it into agriculture.
Khrushchevs insights challenged tra
ditional American viewpoints on many 
areas of Soviet-American interaction. 
For example, the 1960 Soviet shooting of 
an American U-2 spy plane flying over 
Soviet territory is sometimes portrayed 
as unprovoked. But Khrushchev argued 
that the discovery of evidence of Ameri
can intelligence flights was a personal
humiliation for his father and 
that, when U.S. president Dwight 
Eisenhower didnt meet his request for 
an apology, he felt he had no choice but 
to take action.
One of the iconic images of Nikita 
Khrushchev in the United States comes 
from one televised speech in which he 
told Americans that we will bury you, 
while he pounded his shoe on the table 
for emphasis. I can assure you that [the 
shoe] was not Russian. It was an Ameri
can shoe, said Sergei Khrushchev, elic
iting laughter from the audience.
He went on to explain how the popu
larity of this image was the result of 
another historical misunderstanding; his 
father had used the phrase once, in con
text, and the American media had exag
gerated it. The reality ofI will bury you 
is that it is the product of the American 
propaganda, he said.
After describing how his father and 
U.S. president John F. Kennedy had 
begun to make steps towards mutual 
understanding, Khrushchev reflected on 
how things might have gone differently. 
If Kennedy had not been assassinated in 
Please see LECTURE, page 3
By LISETTE MILLER-DIXON
Tartan Managing Editor
Changes in commerce have brought 
about new fields of interest as well as 
new fields of study at Carnegie Mellon 
University. Faced with the overwhelm
ing increase in Internet-related sales, a 
new degree, the Master of Science in 
Electronic Commerce (MSEC), is being 
offered through a joint effort from Carn
egie Mellons School of Computer Sci
ence (SCS) and Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration(GSIA).
The program, which is set to begin in 
May of this year, is believed to be the only 
degree in the subject offered in the United 
States. Other schools have offered con
centrations or minors in the subject, but 
none have created an entire degree. Car
negie Mellons reputation as a leading 
computer science school and its strong 
graduate business program have helped 
bring attention to the program.
This is a perfect example of leveraging 
the strengths of Carnegie Mellon 
University, said Douglas'Dunn, dean of 
GSIA. It brings together strengths 
ofboth the computer science and business 
schools. It addresses real market 
needs, and advances the research agenda 
of our faculty.
The program is designed to run over 
three consecutive semesters. The se
mesters are divides into a total of six 
mini-semesters with specially designed 
courses. Time is split between business 
and computer science to allow strong 
foundations to be formed in both. The 
last two mini-semesters are used for a 
Practicum, a team project that forces 
hands-on real world work that will even
tually be turned over to the project cli
ent for further development and imple
mentation. GSIA has had clients like 
this for over 25 years. Clients will come 
from contacts through the University 
and alumni. At the undergraduate leve,l 
students will pay a fee because there 
has been a high demand. According to 
Dker Baybars, senior deputy dean of 
academic affairs at GSIA, it is not clear 
whether or not there will be a fee for 
clients of these projects.
Students expected to enroll in the 
program are from both computer sci
ence and business programs. CMU 
expects that between 30-40 students 
will enroll for the first year, and that 
twice as many will enroll next year. 
The degree is attracting an equal num
ber of students from both technical 
and business backgrounds, said Vickie 
Motz, RAS coordinator for GSIA.
Dorm rooms will get high-tech locks
By SRINIVAS PULLELA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Students will throw away their lowtech keys for keycards beginning April 
1. Housing Services will oversee the 
implementation of a new electronic lock
ing system for all student rooms in CMUowned residence halls.
We are using state-of-the-art tech
nology to provide as secure an environ
ment as possible, said Tim Michael, 
director of Housing Services .
The new lock, called the Integra 3, 
features an electronic keycard entry sys
tem and a numbered keypad. To disen
gage the lock, a user must swipe a valid 
card into the reader and enter the cor
rect, user-specific personal identifica
tion number (PIN).
Housing Services began to seek an 
alternative to the current mechanically 
operated locks after the loss of at least 
one residence hall master key last Au
gust. We wanted to see how we could 
create a more permanent solution in the 
event of a lost master key, said Michael.
A staff advisory committee consisting 
of representatives from several adminis
trative branches was formed last Novem
ber to discuss possible solutions. After 
considering various options, the commit
tee eventually decided that electronic 
locks would provide the most permanent 
and efficient solution. Of the several locks
considered for implementation, Housing 
Services decided that the Integra 3, de
veloped by Tesa Entry Systems Inc., of
fered the most security and convenience.
Apart from the basic features, Tesas 
Integra 3 comes with additional capabili
ties that most other electronic locks do 
not yet offer. For example, the lock has a 
deadbolt that can be enabled from out
side, and a privacy mode that prevents 
entry while the deadbolt has been en
abled from the inside. Each lock is also 
equipped with a memory that can store 
information from the most recent 1,000 
transactions that took place, including 
the time of each attempt, the name of the 
person who attempted to enter, and the 
status of the lock at the time.
According to Michael, the new keycards 
are highly secure as well. Information is 
encoded on cards using a series of algo
rithms that are more complex than those 
used by credit cards today. It will also be 
easier to replace keycards and re-key 
electronic locks in the event of lost keys.
Under the existing system, if a stu
dent loses his or her key, a lock change 
typically occurs within 48 hours and the 
student incurs a charge of $50-75, said 
Michael. Once the electronic locks have 
been installed, however, the entire pro
cess of key replacement will be much 
quicker and less costly. A student who 
has lost his keycard will immediately be 
issued another one by Housing Services.
Your lock can be changed in the amount 
of time it takes for you to walk back to your 
room. The charge for a replacement 
keycard will be no more than $10, said 
Michael. When the student swipes the 
newly issued card through the lock, the 
reader will accept it and automatically 
invalidate the old, lost card. Furthermore, 
if in the meantime the students lost key is 
recovered by someone else, that person 
will not be able to open the door unless he 
has the correct PIN as well.
I think Ill feel safer knowing that if a 
key is misplaced, they can easily fix the 
problem, said first-year math major 
Brianna Blaser.
Similarly, if the master key to a resi
dence hall is lost, Housing Services can 
issue another master card and re-key all 
the locks within an hour at most, since 
each electronic lock can be re-keyed in 
the amount of time it takes to swipe a 
card into the reader.
When its been announced in the 
past that a master key was missing, and 
locks would be need to be re-keyed, there 
was probably anticipation on the part of 
the residents during that re-keying pro
cess. With this new system, the time lag 
to address the situation will be minimal 
in comparison, said James Gartner, risk 
manager for the University.
Lock installation is expected to start as 
early as April 1 and finish by August 1.
Please see LOCKS, page 3Provost unveils new Commencement ceremony
ByASEEM S. GUPTA
Tartan Acting Webmaster
For doctoral students who are 
usually given just a few minutes 
of attention at Commencement, 
the installation of a hooding cer
emony the day before is a chance 
to receive much-deserved recog
nition from the CMU community.
I think it will give a much 
richer experience for the 
candidates and I feel very strongly 
that this is an enhancement, 
said Maryann Moore, director of 
Special Events. Moore has been 
one of the primary architects of 
the event, which has included 
input from such people as 
the president, provost, deans 
of colleges and departments, 
graduate associate deans, and 
doctoral students.
All students, including doc
toral students, will still have their 
degrees conferred on Sunday, 
said Michael Murphy, dean of 
Student Affairs. This special 
event on Saturday should make 
the whole weekend a very special
time for students and their friends 
and families.
When we really started to look 
at what we had in the Commence
ment ceremony it became clear 
that we werent treating the can
didates properly. The recognition 
they were being given was being 
herded across the stage in 15 
or 20 minutes. Doctoral 
students estimate that the new 
ceremony will last about 
90 minutes.
The ceremony will take place 
on Saturday, May 15 at 7:30 in 
the evening. According to 
a preliminary outline provided 
by Moore, during the ceremony 
the candidates will enter the 
room along with advisors, faculty 
members, the president, provost, 
deans, and other members 
of the platform. After the proces
sional, the provost will 
make opening remarks to begin 
the ceremony. If candidates 
choose, a keynote speaker will 
follow the provost.
After the provost speaks, each 
candidate will be hooded by a
faculty member of his or 
her choosing. After the hooding, 
the president will make closing 
remarks. Students will be 
able to invite family members 
and guests to attend the hooding 
and for a reception to follow 
the formalities.
Doctoral degree candidates will 
attend the commencement 
ceremony at 11 am on Sunday, 
May 16 in Gesling Stadium. At 
this time they will be conferred 
with their degrees along with 
all bachelors and masters 
degree candidates.
As diplomas are not physically 
distributed during commence
ment} all candidates will go to 
their respective departments to 
receive their diplomas following 
the ceremony.
The doctoral degree is the high
est honor a university can be
stow, said Murphy. The cre
ation of knowledge upon which 
the degree is founded, and the 
lifelong commitment to the very 
central ideals of the university 
which the degree connotes, make
the hooding ceremony very spe
cial indeed.
Faculty members have asked 
about having a separate cer
emony, said Moore. We re
searched several other institu
tions such as Stanford, Case 
Western Reserve, MIT, and Yale. 
Many other universities already 
have separate ceremonies for 
their doctors.
The proposal to recognize 
doctors separately has been con
sidered for many years, but 
the idea was brought to the fore
front last year when the com
mencement ceremony was re
evaluated. We relocated 
the ceremony and tightened it 
up by shortening certain parts. 
We then began to think about 
the issue of doctors hooding, 
said Moore.
Planners are expecting a 
high attendance of approxi
mately 180 doctors at this years 
ceremonies. You can no longer 
call the commencement on 
Sunday the main ceremony, 
said Moore.
Time to get involved...
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff 
Students made their rounds at last Thursday's Activities Fair.

---------------------------------------------------

Jame asMosj n isMjer/e TettAj Ej/deMV/ol n u 9e3M,sMl uIII
Page 2...
Courts force release of 
Microsoft depositions
WASHINGTON (AP)  A federal 
appeals court reluctantly agreed Fri
day that an obscure 1913 law allows 
the public to see the entire videotape 
ofMicrosofts billionaire chairman, Bill 
Gates, struggling through three days 
of interviews by government lawyers.
The decision also opens roughly 100 
other depositi ons already taken in the 
governments high-profile antitrust 
case against Microsoft, including in
terviews with some of the high-tech 
industrys most powerful players, such 
as top executives of Intel Corp., IBM 
Corp., Apple Computer Corp., and 
Netscape Communications Corp.
And the ruling effectively ensures the 
public can attend any future interviews 
with executives related to the trial.
The appeals court called the 86-yearold law requiring open antitrust deposi
tions an anachronism,buttoldMicrosoft 
it found no reason to avoid enforcing it. 
The rarely used law says such deposi
tions shall be open to the public as freely 
as are trials in open court.
We do not disagree with Microsofts 
claim that the reason originally un
derlying the statute has for the most 
part vanished, the court said. Like 
Tithonus, to whom Zeus gave eternal 
life but not eternal youth, [the law] 
may well be with us longer than most 
anyone would wish.
Microsoft did not say whether it will 
appeal the ruling by the U.S. Circuit 
Court of Appeals for the District of 
Columbia, but the company said it 
wasnt surprised by the decision.
The case originally was brought by 
lawyers representing several media or
ganizations, including the Associated 
Press. Steve Geimann of the national 
Society of Professional Journalists called 
the ruling an overwhelming victory for 
the public, especially in view of the 
incredible cost and interest in what the 
government is doing with Microsoft.
The court ordered its clerks office 
not to release any video or transcripts 
until at least seven days after the 
company decides whether to appeal, 
which could take weeks.
It seems clear that the appeals court 
was sympathetic to our argument that 
this obscure 1913 law was obsolete, 
spokesman Mark Murray said.
Even once the court decides to re
lease videotapes, the material would 
likely be reviewed first by the judge or 
an appointee to remove references to 
trade secrets or other types of confi
dential information, which could de
lay the release weeks more.
Through 13 weeks of trial, the gov
ernment has already showed roughly 
eight of the 20 hours of Gates battling 
lawyers about his companys business 
practices. The government interviewed 
Gates over three days last summer at 
Microsofts headquarters near Seattle.
The tape proved highly embarrass
ingand occasionally entertaining 
as Gates, the worlds wealthiest man, 
with a net worth of more than $82 
billion, professed to forget key events 
and appeared to evade questions.
Gates himself bristled at the 
governments use of the videotape.
I answered every question, com
pletely, truthfully through many, 
many, many long days, Gates told the 
Associated Press in November. The 
fact that theyre taking snippets out of 
that and holding them up without 
having me there because they chose 
not to call me as a witness, I think, is 
quite novel.
Earlier in the trial, when Microsoft 
complained about use of the video, the 
judge admonished: I think the prob
lem is with your witness, not with the 
way in which his testimony is being 
presented. I think its evident to every 
spectator that Mr. Gates has not been 
particularly responsive.
Scientists create map of universe
LONDON (AP)  A team of astrono
mers has created a map of the cosmos that 
covers the largest area of the universe 
ever charted, news reports said Saturday.
The three dimensional map, charting 
15,500 galaxies, covers an area so large 
that it would take 500 million years for 
a light shone on one side to reach the 
other, The Guardian newspaper said.
Superclusters  gigantic structures 
made of clusters of galaxiesare charted, 
and the spaces between them, called voids, 
offer important information about the ex
pansion of the universe, the report said.
It allows us to make a long-term fore
cast on the fundamental questions affect
ing our universe, Professor Carlos Frenk 
of Furham University was quoted as say
ing in an interview with The Guardian.
Frenk is a member of the international 
research team that produced the map.
According to the Big Bang theory, grav
ity has kept the universe expanding 
since its creation. Scientists believe that 
to keep the universe expanding, more 
force is required than the gravitational 
power produced by the known galaxies, 
and that the extra force must come from 
invisible dark matter, the report said.
The new map gives researchers a way 
of calculating how much dark matter 
there is, and they have concluded there 
is sufficient gravitational force for 
expansion to continue forever, The 
Guardian said.Alaskan weather reaches new low
FAIRBANKS, Alaska (AP)  An out
break of bitterly cold air  even 
by Alaskan standards  has the 49th 
state shivering.
Sure, January is supposed to be cold in 
Alaska. But air temperatures have 
dropped to minus 70 degrees Fahren
heit in the states interior, with 
windchills plummeting to minus 100 in 
the coldest weather in a decade, the 
National Weather Service reports.
Every activity is a dangerous activity 
now in n orthem Alaska, said Lee Kelley, 
meteorologist in charge of the weather 
service office in Fairbanks. Whether we 
get a new record, well know in the next 
two days, he said.
Alaskas current low record is minus 
80, set at Prospect Creek on Jan. 23, 
1971. Kelley said typical winter lows in 
the state range from minus 30 to minus 
40: People will function fairly well in 
that type of temperature range.
Chandalar Lake, Alaska, reported a 
low of minus 71 on Thursday, and read
ings of minus 40 to minus 70 are ex
pected to persist through the weekend.
A blocking pattern in the atmosphere 
is causing frigid air from Siberia to spill 
into northern Alaska, Kelley explained, 
and as it spreads further to the South
east the cold will begin affecting more 
populated areas, such as Fairbanks, 
where lows are expected to reach be
tween minus 50 and minus 65.
Yes, were used to a lot of cold. How
ever, things start breaking at minus 40 
and below, Kelley explained in a tele
phone interview. The smaller aircraft 
that service the villages as a lifeline will 
be grounded by the cold, he said. All 
these places are already isolated, but 
they become totally cut off. That in
cludes medical flights.
He explained that the cold affects en
gine hoses on the planes, fuel flow, and 
other components. Larger planes, such 
as Boeing 737s and MD80s can fly at 
temperatures down to about minus 65, 
Kelley said, but one landing can create 
ice fog that closes an airport indefinitely.
Fuel oil begins to jell at minus 40 and 
that is the major heating fuel for interior 
Alaska, he went on. By minus 45 the 
fuel will be jelled and so operating diesel 
vehicles and heating buildings will be
come more and more difficult.Miami police nab Super Bowl star
MIAMI (AP)Atlanta Falcons safety 
Eugene Robinson was arrested on a sex 
solicitation charge Saturday night less 
than 24 hours before the start of the 
Super Bowl.
Robinson, 36, was arrested at 9 pm 
EST and charged with soliciting 
an undercover police officer for oral 
sex on Biscayne Boulevard, a busy 
street frequented by prostitutes and 
drug dealers.
We did arrest a Falcon player this 
evening, Eugene Robinson, for soliciting 
prostitution from one of our undercover 
officers, police spokesman Angel 
Calzadilla said.
Robinson was driving a car when 
he offered the officer $40 for oral 
sex, Calzadilla said. He was alone at 
the time.
Robinson was released from Miami 
Police headquarters around 11 pm to a 
Falcons team official. He promised to 
return for a court appearance, which is 
usually scheduled within 21 to 30 days.
Reached in his hotel room early Sun
day, Falcons general manager Harold 
Richardson said: Ive been asleep. Ill 
have to check on it in the morning.
Earlier in the day, Robinson lounged 
by the pool at the teams hotel with his 
wife, Gia, and their 9-year-old son, Bran
don. The couple also has an 11-year-old 
daughter, Brittany.
Robinson, who played in the last two 
Super Bowls with Green Bay, is the 
NFLs career active leader in intercep
tions with 53.Sony will release music by Internet
TOKYO (AP). Japans Sony Music 
Entertainment plans to start allowing 
Internet users to download music for a 
fee and record it onto minidiscs, accord
ing to a published report Friday.
Customers would be able to choose 
from music produced by Sony, and would 
be charged according to the number of 
songs downloaded or the playing time of 
the music, the Asahi newspaper re
ported. The newspaper did not say when 
the new program would be implemented.
The company declined to confirm 
the report.
Sony Music Entertainments parent 
company, Sony Corp., has been aggres
sively pursuing new recording technolo
gies including the minidisc.
NATO authorizes use of military action, barring autonomy in Kosovo
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP)  
NATO authorized its secretarygeneral on Saturday to launch 
military action in Yugoslavia if 
the warring parties do not nego
tiate an agreement for autonomy 
in Kosovo.
The United States and five Eu
ropean nations gave Yugoslav 
President Slobodan Milosevic 
and Kosovos ethnic Albanians a 
week to start negotiations and 
another two weeks to agree on 
substantial autonomy for the 
southern province of Serbia, the 
larger of Yugoslavias two re
maining republics. On Saturday 
they backed the demand with the 
threat of NATO force.
The Council has agreed today 
that I may authorize airstrikes 
against targets on Yugoslav terri
tory, NATO Secretary-General 
Javier Solana said in a statement 
to reporters. We rule out no option
to ensure full respect by both sides 
in Kosovo for the requirements of 
the international community.
British Foreign Secretary Robin 
Cook took that tough message to 
Belgrade on Saturday, where he 
met for half an hour with 
Milosevic. He later met with three 
ethnic Albanian leaders in neigh
boring Macedonia, all of whom 
have demanded independence.
Milosevic and an official from 
the Kosovo Liberation Army both 
told Cook they would consider 
the invitation and officially re
spond in a few days. Milosevic 
said he opposed NATOs proposal 
to hold talks outside Yugoslavia, 
but said he was committed to 
finding a peaceful solution. Only 
moderate ethnic Albanian leader 
Ibrahim Rugova accepted an in
vitation to talks unconditionally.
In Washington, Secretary of 
State Madeleine Albright said she
strongly supported NATOs deci
sion, arguing that diplomacy 
backed by the threat of force was 
the only way to halt the violence.
The choice is truly up to the 
leadership on both sides, espe
cially the authorities in 
Belgrade, she said. Either they 
cease fighting and agree upon a 
peaceful interim settlement, or 
they will face the consequences 
NATO has spelled out today.
The six-nation Contact Group 
the United States, Russia, Brit
ain, France, Germany, and Italy 
has drafted the framework of a 
settlement for Kosovo and wants 
a resolution to the conflict soon.
Ethnic Albanians, most of whom 
seek independence, make up 90 
percent ofthe population in Kosovo.
The Contact Group has sum
moned the ethnic Albanians 
and the Serbian authorities 
to Rambouillet, France, just
outside Paris, on February 6, 
under threat of military action.
I will take my decision (on 
airstrikes) in light of both par
ties compliance with interna
tional commitments and require
ments ... to avert a humanitarian 
catastrophe, Solana said.
Diplomatic sources said Solana 
was given decision-making re
sponsibility to reduce the time 
delay needed for consultations 
before ordering an operation.
The secretary-general said 
NATO would also take into ac
count the actions of the ethnic 
Albanian leadership, and take 
all appropriate measures in 
case of a failure by the Kosovar 
Albanian side to comply with 
the demands of the international 
community.
He said the alliance was study
ing measures to curb arms smug
gling into Kosovo.
Asked what might trigger 
airstrikes, Solana said a no show 
at Rambouillet or another mas
sacre of ethnic Albanian civilians 
would be the most likely trigger.
Two allied naval task forces 
have been dispatched to the 
Yugoslav region and hundreds of 
NATO warplanes are armed and 
ready at bases in northern Italy, 
waiting for a final go signal from 
NATOs political leadership.
National Security Advisor 
Sandy Berger told CNN that 
talk of U.S. involvement in an 
intervention force in Kosovo 
was premature.
If there was an implementa
tion force, it would be in the con
text of NATO, Berger said. I 
think the most important thing 
here is to bring the parties to
gether to reach an agreement and 
to understand that theyre oper
ating with a time constraint.
A NATO official said planning 
would now go ahead vigorously 
for an eventual dispatch of NATO 
ground forces to Kosovo to en
force a political settlement.
One of the options calls for as 
many as 30,000-40,000 troops, 
said the official, who spoke on 
condition he not be identified.
An estimated 2,000 people 
have died in Kosovo during 
seven months of fighting that 
began last February. Hundreds 
of thousands more were driven 
from their homes. An Ameri
can-mediated cease-fire was 
agreed to in October, but that 
was shaky from the start 
and began to deteriorate rap
idly in December.
Russia has thrown its full sup
port behind the diplomatic initia
tive of the Contact Group. But it 
strongly opposes the use of force 
against its old ally in Belgrade.
Four-Day Forecast
Tuesday
W7///AHi 54
WUh
Lo 40
WednesdayMostly cloudy 
Hi 52 
Lo 39
ThursdayRain/snow 
HI 47 
Lo 32
Carnegie Almanac
from National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, February 16, 
1949  Carnegie Techs athletic 
director announced that he had 
selected Dr. Eddie Baker to fill 
the head football coaching va
cancy. He succeeded Bill 
Donohoe, who had resigned his 
football and basketball coaching 
positions. An assistant coach was 
set to be named later.
25 YEARS AGO, February 5, 
1974 Four males of high school 
age toured the campus asking for 
marijuana and assaulting sev
eral students, including one 
woman.
At one point the group, while in 
a car, approached a student and 
asked, Do you have any weed? 
The student said yes and pro
duced a bag. The four grabbed 
the bag and drove away. The stu
dent got into his car and followed
them. The car chase ended when 
the first car stopped at a red light. 
The student got out of his car and 
asked for his weed back. The four 
struck him in the face with their 
fists and drove away. The stu
dent reported the theft to the 
Pittsburgh Police.
10 YEARS AGO,February 14, 
1989  Students and adminis
trators still had not decided where 
CFAs Beaux Arts Ball would be 
held. Because of a University 
policy passed in 1985, the only 
way the ball could be in CFA, 
where it traditionally had been 
held, would be if it were com
pletely dry.
An announcement from the 
Dean of Student Affairs nearly 
cancelled the ball. He called it 
an uncontrollable event and 
barred it from CFA because no
faculty member or administra
tor is willing to take the respon
sibility for the successful man
agement of alcohol.
Off-campus locations for the 
ball that were being considered 
were Metropol, Zacks Bar, Vics, 
the Wightman School, and Motor 
Square Garden.
FIVE YEARS AGO, January 
31, 1994  The 14-month battle 
of wills between Carnegie Mellon 
University and Service Employ
ees International Union escalated 
with both sides firing increas
ingly bitter volleys at each other. 
The union voted to reject the 
administrations latest proposal 
and authorize a strike. The union 
represents full-time workers in 
Dining Services, Physical Plant, 
and ABM. There were 140 work
ers at CMU in the union.
Had the workers gone on strike, 
certain areas of the University 
would have been crippled, a bar
gaining chip the union was count
ing on to assist them in negotia
tions. CMU and the union came 
to terms two weeks later.
ONE YEAR AGO, February 2, 
1998  Dr. Raj Reddy, dean of 
the School of Computer Science, 
announed his intentions to re
sign as dean and return to teach
ing and. research.
Reddy became acting dean of 
SCS in 1992. Two years later he 
was officially made dean for a term 
of five years. The faculty simply 
wanted him to do it, said Dr. 
Robert Thibadeau, senior re
searcher in the Robotics Institute.
Compiled by 
RYAN D. SCHILLING

---------------------------------------------------

ame asMosj n isMjer/e TettAj Ej/deMV/ol n u 9e3M,sMl uIII1
Crime and Incident Report
1/8 INDECENT EXPOSURE, 9:30 am 
A Campus Police officer was dispatched 
to the Mellon Institute loading dock to 
meet a research assistant. She said that 
on January 8, a white male pulled up to 
the dock in a dark green car. He asked, 
How do you go to Schenley Park? The 
victim-to-be gave the actor directions to 
the expansive city park.
The actor then asked something about 
a job fair. She said she didnt know, 
offeringthat some people inside the stock 
room might know. The actor didnt say a 
word, and the victim grew uneasy. I 
have to go, she said and then walked 
toward the card reader door. The victim 
said that she heard some noises behind 
her. When she looked back, the actor 
exposed his penis to her. She hurried 
into Mellon Institute; the car left.
The officer asked the victim if she 
wanted to talk with anyone from the 
Campus Police sexual assault squad, 
but she did not.
1/29 THEFT, 11:50 pm  While on a 
delivery run, a Pizza Outlet driver left his 
car unattended and unlocked, thinking 
that nothing could happen during such a 
short time. After delivering the pizza to a 
fraternity, however, he saw that someone 
had taken the remaining pizza from his 
car along with his insulated pizza bag.
He walked to a neighboring fraternity 
house and looked through the window 
into the lounge. He saw a group of frater
nity brothers devouring a fresh Pizza 
Outlet pizza. He knocked on the door, 
and one of the men inside said, Come in, 
the doors open. Upon entering the 
lounge, he said, Thats my pizza. One 
of the brothers picked up the pizza and 
went into another room, while another 
began to escort him out the door. He told 
the driver that they didnt have his pizza. 
As he left, the driver said hed call the 
police, which he did.
Five Campus Police officers responded 
to the fraternity. The house official de
nied that anyone took the pizza or the 
pizza bag. The officers searched the 
lounge and the room in question, but the 
officers found nothing that collaborated 
with his story. The officers advised the 
driver to lock his car doors when he 
makes deliveries.
1/31 DISORDERLY CONDUCT} 1:10 
pm  A Campus Police officer was on 
fraternity patrol. From the AlumniHouse, 
he saw a car parked in the fraternity lot. 
He observed a female in the passengers 
seat light a lighter close to her face, hold
ing it there for a few seconds. He then 
watched as she passed a shiny, silver 
object to the driver. She partook in the 
same manner as the first and passed the 
pipe to the passengers in the back seat.
The officer left the Alumni House with 
another officer to further investigate. 
They approached the vehicle and no
ticed that the cars windows were open; 
marijuana smoke was prevalent near 
the car. The officers identified them
selves and asked the female in the pas
senger seat what she was smoking. She 
produced the silver pipe that the officer 
had seen earlier. The officer told the 
occupants to exit the car. Three of the 
four occupants had no form of identifica
tion. The occupants provided names and 
addresses verbally. One of the occupants 
surrendered a small bag of marijuana to 
the officers and the pipe.
The officer then prepared a vehicle 
search consent form, which the driver 
signed. The officers searched the car and 
found a six-pack of beer. The beer was 
confiscated as well, since three of the 
four occupants were underage. All ad
mitted to smoking from the pipe, so all 
were issued Pennsylvania non-traffic 
citations for disorderly conduct. The male 
in the group was also given a citation for 
underage possession of alcohol.
 Campus Chief of Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tartan staff 
see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the 
News Editor, and the staffwriter typing 
the report.
 All personal names of complainants, 
victims, suspects, and fraternities are omit
ted from the printed report. Ethnic descrip
tions and other personal details are given 
only in the context of complete descriptions.
 Not every incident that occurs ap
pears in the report.
Compiled By 
RYAN D. SCHILLING
Student dorms get new lock system
LOCKS, from page 1
Locks in all campus-owned residence 
halls, including Doherty, Shirley, and 
Marybelle Apartments, will be replaced. 
They will not be changed in Cathedral 
Mansions, W ebster Hall, F airfax Apart
ments, or Amberson Apartments. Accordingto Michael, the installation time 
will be half an hour or less per door, and 
should not pose any interruption to 
residents. While the locks on all inte
rior doors will be replaced, exterior 
doors will not be changed.
According to Michael, the best secu
rity application for the Universitys 
external doors is an online system, not 
a stand-alone electronic system.
Students arriving back on campus 
next year can expect a speedier 
registration process. Student will 
each be issued keycards and dummy 
PINs, which they will be urged to 
change as soon as possible. Housing 
Services will not keep a record of the 
new PINs. In addition, students who
do not wish to carry around two 
cards will have the option of having 
their University identification cards 
encoded as keycards.
Michael emphasized Housing Services 
commitment to providing the most se
cure environment possible.
courtesy TESA Access Control 
Housing will introduce new locks by August.
We hope students will recognize 
that this a very important issue for us. 
Theres nothing more important than 
security, said Michael.
Student Dormitory Council Presi
dent and senior electrical and com
puter engineering major Rob Migliore 
is optimistic about the new lock sys
tem, and expects a positive response 
from the community.
I think its a step in the right 
direction. Its a great thing for the 
administration because they can provide 
better security at a long-term lower price, 
said Migliore.
Gartner and Michael expressed simi
lar enthusiasm about the new locks.
This involves a significant investment 
on the part of the university in the latest 
available technology, said Gartner.
We think its appropriate that Carn
egie Mellon University is on the cutting 
edge of residence hall security. This 
component of our security will become a 
model for other schools, said Michael.
Lecturer sheds light on Cold War politics
LECTURE, from page 1
1963 and if his father hadnt been forced 
out of office the next year, then perhaps 
the Cold War could have ended in the 
late 60s instead of the late 90s, 
Khruschev said.
In a press conference before the speech, 
Khrushchev turned from the past to the 
present, expressing dismay at the tur
moil thats engulfing Russia. He said of 
current Russian president Boris Yeltsin 
Hes interested in his personal power, 
not in the country, and was blunt in his 
criticism ofthe criminalsbehind Yeltsin.
The Cold War program runs a collo
quium in which it brings Friday speakers 
to campus for public lectures every few
weeks. Since Khrushchev.was so wellknown, the members ofthe project planned 
to turn this speech into a bigger event 
than most Colloquium-sponsored lectures, 
with increased publicity and a larger room. 
Because of his work in the Soviet space 
system and his notoriety as Nikita 
Khrushchevs son, we thought it would be 
a good idea, said history professor David 
Hounshell about why the Colloquium 
wanted to bring Khrushchev to campus.
Asif Siddiqi, a Ph.D. candidate in his
tory and a member of the Cold War 
program, first came up with the idea of 
inviting Khrushchev to speak. Siddiqi 
had gotten to know Khrushchev profes
sionally several years ago while research
ing a book on the Soviet space program. 
Drawing on this connection, he asked 
him about speaking on campus.
Organizers and attendees alike were 
enthusiastic about how the event turned 
out. I think [the speech] went really well. 
We were really surprised at how many 
people showed up, said Siddiqi. I was 
impressed by Dr. Khrushchevs openness 
and calm, pleasant manner of discussion, 
said Kevin Frederick, a sophomore elec
trical and computer engineering major.
I think it was very interesting to have 
a sort of perspective on the Cold War from 
someone who lived it and was so close to 
the source, said Cris Peterson, a junior 
English and social history major.
Corrections/Clarifications...
In last weeks issue. the story Student senate elects officers contains two erroneous facts. Robb Moskwitz is an 
information and decision systems major, not ah SDS major. In addition, the article should read that the next Senate 
Meeting, not the next ExComm meeting, will be on February 4,
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Kevin Babbitt at 
x8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
Magee-Womens HospitalWomancare
For a lifetime.DO YOU SKIP OR MISS YOUR 
MENSTRUAL PERIODS?
ARE YOU CONCERNED ABOUT YOUR OVERALL HEALTH OR INFERTILITY?
Researchers at Magee-Womens Hospital and the University of Pittsburgh arc conducting a research study. They arc testing a new treat
ment aimed at helping women who skip or miss their periods due the stress. You may. be compensated up to S900 for your participation.
If you answer yes to these questions, you may be able to participate:
 Do you have fewer than 6 menstrual cycles or no cycles per year?
 Are you 18-38 years old?
 Are you normal weight and a nonsmoker?
Women who have regular, monthly menstrual cycles are also needed. You may be compensated up to $270 for your participation.
For more information please call (412) 641-1602 or email us by visiting the Magee-Womens Hospital web page: http://www.magee.edu 
under Research at Magee, then participants for Research Study Needed. Our Research Nurse will contact you with details.
ms*95CC gCUvyC5S
Zltethzt. BAUM BLVD. (Oakland) 
(412) 87-9555
NejjVltdsj/s wAdeMjAMpV c0mAAt 
6AM ome c0/ej0eV FNwccb
Undergraduate summer employment at Carnegie Mellon University is available with the 
Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences. The PGSS is a five-week summer school 
for extremely talented high school students from Pennsylvania. Teaching 
Assistant/Counselor appointments are available in the areas of biology, chemistry, physics, 
computer science and mathematics.
Applicants should have finished their sophomore year by the start of the program. Preference 
will be given to applicants with outstanding academic records. You will be expected to serve 
as dormitory counselor, to live in the same dormitory as the PGSS students, see that the PGSS 
disciplinary rules are adhered to, provide tutorial help in the academic program, and conduct 
program and social activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $2,000 
Free room is provided as well as a $250 food allowance.
PGSS is in session from June 27 to July 31.
Counselor duties begin June 23, end July 31.
Applications are available in Mellon Institute 418 
at http://www-pgss.mcs.cmu.edu/home/other/99TAapplieation.pdf
Contact Gerry Rensko at 268-6669 
or e-mail rensko+@andrew.cmu.edu
Application Deadline: March 15, 1999
WUWh mGX m>.no
OPEN 7 DAYS  SUNDAY - THURSDAY 11 AM - 2 AM FRIDAY * SATURDAY 11 A
Close tbs Deal
Large PizzaUnlimited. Toppings i;

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University1 February 1999
Students must act 
to revive tradition
Most current students were 
probably still in high school the 
last time the Beaux Arts Ball 
took place in February of 1995. 
But as early as this semester, 
students may once again have 
the opportunity to participate 
in what has been a tradition at 
CMU since 1915. About 15 orga
nizers are attempting to bring 
back a tradition that they have 
never experienced, and while 15 
students is a start, they need 
the support of dedicated mem
bers of the student body if the 
Ball is to occur.
The Beaux Arts Ball is a mas
querade ball that took place once 
every two years. It gave stu
dents throughout CMU a chance 
to dress up in costume, dance, 
and socialize in a heavily deco
rated CFA. In the past, the event 
featured many different activi
ties, including bands and DJs, 
and lasted from 10 pm until 10 
am. Traditionally, there was a 
fully catered meal served around 
1 am.
While the Wats:On? Festival 
of the Arts has started up since 
the disappearance of Beaux Arts, 
this festival is open only to stu
dents in CFA, and does not serve 
to unite the campus community 
in the way the Beaux Arts Ball 
did. Beaux Arts was unique in 
that it was an arts festival for 
the entire campus community; 
its absence only serves to com
pound the perception many stu
dents have that CFA is an iso
lated part of CMU.
Like any event of its magni
tude, the Beaux Arts Ball re
quires a tremendous amount of 
work to organize  so much 
that it has overwhelmed those 
who have tried it in recent years. 
The current committee is off to 
a good start; they have divided 
into sub-committees, each of 
which will handle a different 
aspect of organization, such as 
finance, security, and decora
tions. They have created a pub
lic bboard and posted flyers 
across campus to foster 
student participation.
The current organizers, un
like those from the past, are 
encouraging students of all 
majors to help organize the 
event, rather than restricting it 
to CFA students. Tomorrow 
there will be a meeting for all 
who are interested in bringing 
back this long-standing tradi
tion; students need to show their 
support for the event by attend
ing this meeting.
Because the Ball last took place 
four years ago, there are only a 
handful of students left who re
member it. Because of this, it is 
in danger of being forgotten. The 
current committee has taken the 
first step; now it is up to stu
dents to show the dedication and 
commitment needed in order to 
preserve this important aspect 
of CMU culture.
CMU should expand 
ID card functionality
Last summer, Dining Services 
upgraded the system which man
ages students DineXpress and 
CampusXpress accounts via 
their ID cards. Around the same 
time, they announced plans to 
have a variety of local businesses 
be able to accept students 
DineXpress or CampusXpress. 
Currently, the target time for 
the introduction of this new pro
gram is the start of the fall 99 
semester. Because this new sys
tem will benefit students, local 
businesses, and the University, 
Dining Services must not 
let their current plans fall be
hind schedule.
Such a system would clearly 
benefit students living off cam
pus. Because these students 
spend less of their time on cam
pus, the Xpress programs do not 
presently suit their needs. Al
though the administration 
cannot possibly cater to all 
students every need, expand
ing the selection available 
for these programs would in
crease their attractiveness to 
all students.
The University of Pittsburghs 
Campus Funds program offers a 
clear example of how successful 
such a system could be. Their 
program functions much like 
CampusXpress, except that a 
number of local businesses, in
cluding Pamelas and 7-Eleven, 
accept Campus Funds as pay
ment. If the CampusXpress pro
gram had this flexibility, CMU 
students would be able to put
James Mojonnler/Tartan Art Editor
Red obscured Russias true colors
yvnrYishan Wong
One of the great tragedies of modern 
times has been the dismal failure of 
communism. It was really quite a nice 
ideology, espoused even by Jesus nearly 
2000 years ago and given to the type of 
glorious bloody revolutions that we 
Americans love. In this country, we do a
great job lauding our courageous rebel
lion against the British oppressors, 
emerging with heroes of the intellect as 
well as the heart, heroes who created a 
visionary new society.
Russia did that. It had heroes like 
Lenin and Trotsky, determined intellec
tuals who saw great injustice and carved 
out their vision for a better world. We 
like that here in America. If communism 
had worked out over there, maybe we 
could have had another American revomoney into their account and 
not have to worry about 
carrying cash, either on or 
off campus.
In order for the new system to 
be successful, the University 
must actively seek interested 
businesses. Three years ago, the 
Student Dormitory Council 
Food Committee conducted a 
survey of CMU students to find 
out which vendors they wanted 
to see in such a program. The 
resulting list of vendors is a 
good starting point, but once 
the program is established, the 
University should continue to 
increase the number of options 
available to students. Con
versely, as these options become 
available, students should make 
active use of them  if usage 
drops off, businesses will see no 
reason to continue their agree
ment with CMU and drop 
the program.
Dining Services is undertak
ing a worthy project. The deci
sion to upgrade the ID card sys
tem last year was a sound one, 
both technologically and 
practically, because it gives 
students retail options that 
were unfeasible before. The plan 
to equip local businesses to 
accept the CMU ID as payment 
should be pressed forward 
with all promptness, because 
doing so gives businesses better 
access to a prime consumer group, 
and it gives students increased 
buying power through their 
ID card.
Matt Blum/Tartan Art Staff
lution, throwing off the yoke of our capi
talist oppressors and creating yet an
other new society. Then, the bards of 
history book publishing companies would 
once again sing tales of American hero
ism and valiance in the face of tyrants. 
And about how we saved their asses in 
the next world war.
A lot of people think communism failed 
because it was fundamentally flawed, or 
that it went against human nature. They 
think perhaps its because people just 
got greedy and corrupt, or maybe the 
CIA did a really good job. Well, thats 
not true. Communism failed because it 
had the wrong colors.
Think about it. Communisms colors 
are predominantly red, maybe with little 
bits of yellow; the main impression the 
mind gets when it sees the flag of a 
communist country is red, lots of red. 
Now, its known that, of all colors, the 
main psychological effect of red is thatiit 
makes people agitated and irritated. 
Thats why communism failed  be
cause (Im pretty sure) all the offices of 
high communist officials were always 
draped with the communist flag, sur
rounding them with red whenever they 
had to make command decisions, 16 
hours a day. And we all know that were 
less likely to make prudent decisions 
affecting the lives of millions of people 
while were angry and upset.
Imagine: Stalins outside on the bal
cony, about to give a speech. For the 
past week, theres been insurrection in 
Estonia. Farm production has been be
low quota all year, and the new factories 
in the Ukraine have fallen behind sched
ule. Back home, the stove is still broken, 
so itll be another dinner of cold canned 
soup. A man like him shouldnt have to 
suffer for such wants. Below him on the 
wide plaza are thousands of people, 
straining for a glimpse of their leader, 
eager for his wisdom. Hes never been 
good at speeches; he was never the oraPlease see RED, page 5
Religion cannot dictate U.S. justice
Dave Liber
Last Thursday, after hear
ing an appeal from visiting 
Pope John Paul II, Missouri 
Governor Mel Carnahan com
muted the death sentence of a 
convicted murderer to life in 
prison. Carnahan, a supporter 
of the death penalty, stated 
that he commuted the sentence 
out of respect for the visiting 
pontiff, as he was moved by 
the Popes concern for this pris
oner. Carnahan also stated 
that his decision to commute 
the sentence was in no way a 
signal that he had changed his 
mind on the death penalty.
The very idea that the Ameri
can justice system can be 
placed on hold for a visiting 
religious figure is disgusting. 
Pope John Paul II, represent
ing what is perhaps the most 
persecuting and bigoted reli
gious body ever to exist, should 
have no right to weigh the fate
of a criminal in our system. 
Governor Carnahans deci
sion to commute the sentence 
comes in direct opposition to 
the idea that punishments 
such as the death penalty 
exist to preserve and protect 
the rights of victims of high
staggering to me. Our justice 
system should not be compro
mised to please any celebrity, 
much less a man who repre
sents an organization of such 
questionable historic ground
ing on such issues as the 
Catholic Church.
"The very idea that the American 
justice system can be placed on 
hold for a visiting religious figure 
is disgusting. 
crimes. Although extremely 
controversial, the death pen
alty does represent the final 
act of equal justice within our 
system of lawthe idea that 
a victims rights extend all 
the way to taking another 
persons life in his or her 
name. The thought that a gov
ernor of any state would com
mute the death sentence of a 
convicted criminal to life in 
prison on the Popes say-so is
The victim of this convicted 
criminal has rights as well  
rights which did not end with 
his death. One of our basic 
and fundamental rights is that 
of equal protection and pres
ervation under the law. By 
commuting this sentence, 
Governor Carnahan has vio
lated that right, keeping the 
victim and family from 
obtaining justice for this 
criminals actions.
However, there does exist a 
larger issue here  that of 
the state government of Mis
souri giving in to the pres
sures of a religious figure sim
ply because of the status he 
brings to the state by visiting 
and driving around in his 
little popemobile. Governor 
Carnahan should not have, 
commuted the death sentence 
simply because the Pope, or 
any other religious figure, 
asked him to. Instead, while 
the Pope was on his way 
back to Rome aboard a con
verted TWA jet, the Missouri 
department of corrections 
should have been strapping 
down a convicted murderer 
who already had his last ] 
snack and last sip of alcohol. 
But alas, there was nothing 
frying in Missouri on that j 
night, and that is what is truly 
a shame.
Dave Liber is a sophomore 
majoring in ethics, history, \ 
and public policy. He wel
comes all responsible replies 
to his column.

---------------------------------------------------

ame asMosj n isMjer/e TettAj Ej/deMV/ol n u 9e3M,sMl uIIIL
Senate denies citizens valuable information
Lorelei Laird
Our liberty cannot be guarded 
but by the freedom of the press, 
nor that be limited without dan
ger of losing it.
Thomas Jefferson to John 
Jay, 1786.
Every culture that has ever 
taken slaves knows that the best 
way to keep the slaves from re
volting is to keep them ignorant. 
We have the First Amendment 
because, as Thomas Jefferson 
said, The basis of our govern
ments being the opinion of the 
people, the very first object should 
be to keep that right [freedom of 
the press]. Thats why it shocked 
and sickened me to see that the 
Senate voted last week to close 
many of its pivotal sessions of 
debate on the impeachment trial 
to the media, and to severely pun
ish any Senator who leaked in
formation about the sessions. 
Such closings betray a disregard 
not only for the rights of their
constituents, but for the basic 
principles of our system of gov
ernment and the laws of our land.
My objections to closing these 
sessions are more ideological than 
practical. Im quite aware that 
Senate debates arent fascinat
ing. However, consider the mat
ter from a historical standpoint. 
Much of the reasoningbehind the 
First Amendment is thus: A wellinformed populace is necessary 
in order for that populace to be 
able to govern itself. Without ac
cess to information on what the 
government is doing, we are pow
erless to stop that government 
before it does things that we dont 
like. While the framers of the 
Constitution may have been 
wrong about the peoples enthu
siasm for seven-hour filibusters, 
the Senate decision leaves us no 
chance to prove otherwise. 
Democracy may be dying, but its 
not dead yet, and this effort to 
hurry it along flies in the face of 
the laissez-faire spirit that we 
as a nation are supposed to 
hold dear.
Then there are the practical 
objections. The proponents of clos
ing the sessions to the media claim 
that closing the sessions will 
make them go much more quickly.
Thats true, but so what? We 
arent paying our senators sixfigure salaries because the job is 
always easy or pleasant. Some
times, political debate is just bor
ing. If my senator cant bring 
herself to sacrifice a few hours of 
free time in exchange for better
beyond my understanding that 
the Senate would choose to set 
afcide the peoples right to follow 
their activities for the sake of 
simple expediency. Never mind 
the ACLU  Im surprised the 
Daughters of the American Revo
lution arent up in arms about
Such closings betray a disregard 
not only for the rights of their con
stituents, but for the basic principles 
of our system of government and the 
laws of our land. 
educating me about the most im
portant congressional action of 
the decade, well, maybe I dont 
need that senator representing 
me anymore.
Congressional sessions involv
ing such delicate matters as im
peachment have traditionally 
been closed to the media, accord
ing to the Washington Post. How
ever, tradition means little 
when the first and only other 
instance of that tradition was in 
1868, before the advent of radio 
and television. Furthermore, it is
this. Anyone who holds our sys
tem of government dear should 
be outraged to be denied the op
portunity to follow what is possi
bly the most important political 
trial of the century.
Most of the press feels the same 
way I do about this. Thats not too 
surprising; its their lead stories 
that the Senate ruined with these 
decisions. But surprisingly little 
has been heard from them about 
it after the initial uproar, and not 
even every member of the press 
was against the closings. To invoke one closed-session 
proponents metaphor, Some
times its better not to watch sau
sage being made. You get better 
sausage. And while he was right, 
if you care about your health at 
all, youd better know whats in 
the sausage. (Consult Upton 
Sinclairs The Jungle if you dont 
believe me.) If the press choose to 
bury its collective head in the 
sand about this, the public is dou
bly swindled  once by our own 
elected officials, and once by the 
media, our guardians of liberty. 
To dodge their responsibility to 
the people is to abdicate one of 
the most important duties of a 
free press.
If the American people never 
get a chance to see their elected 
officials in action, it doesnt mat
ter whether theyre fighting for 
the rule of law or the rule of 
Porky Pigwell never know the 
difference. A democratic govern
ment demands the scrutiny of its 
citizens, lest it be necessary for 
them to demand a new demo
cratic government.
Lorelei Laird is The Tartan 
ForumEditor. She prefers to think 
of herself as idealistic rather 
than naive.
Insects set good example for University social life
Editors Notebook
by James Mojonnier
Even bugs talk to each other when they 
walk around. Look at bees, for example. 
Okay, so maybe theyre just shaking their 
butts at each other, but theyre communi
cating. Theyre telling each other where in 
the garden the delicious flowers are found. 
Now move many notches up the evolution
ary scale to us humans. Shouldnt we at 
least be at the same social skill level as 
those pesky pollen pirates? Not so at 
Carnegie Mellon, it seems.
You know that game you play when youre 
walking across campus? Im talking about 
the last-minute hello game. The game 
begins when youre strolling along, say on 
your way to the UC from Porter Hall. You 
see someone whom you vaguely know 50 
feet away. As soon as you realize you only 
sort of know that guy or girl, you avert your 
eyes. Anything else but this person is inter
esting to look at. Ive actually stared at my 
pocket watch for 30 seconds straight during 
this part. Then, when youre about four feet 
away from them, you quickly make eye
contact, wave or nod, and then keep 
walking briskly by. If youre lucky, you 
sometimes even hear a mumbled greet
ing, which sounds more like Huh than 
Hi. It is by far the silliest of all social 
practices, yet we all do it.
I made a New Years resolution that I 
was no longer going to participate in 
such a ridiculous activity. If I think I 
know someone, why not call them by 
name and give them a great big Hello!? 
So for two weeks, it was Hi, Bob! and 
Hey, Jane! Other people seemed to 
like it. I know I would have brightened 
a bit, being recognized by name in the 
middle of a dreary Pittsburgh day.
Unfortunately, I made afew mistakes. 
I called people by the wrong names, 
sometimes only getting a few conso
nants out of place. I had no idea how 
embarrassing it would be to goof up 
someones name, but man, are people 
ever persnickety when it comes to 
names! I once was very harshly cor
rected after missing a name. I bet that 
when bees accidentally shake their 
rear ends the wrong way, no other bees 
sting them.
You may ask, So what if that guy 
Jimmy Friend-of-a-Friend passes me 
by, and I dont greet him? Consider this 
practicality: We live in a small campus 
community. The likelihood of having 
Jimmy as your lab partner or sitting 
next to him in McConomy is pretty high.
Saying hello to him once in a while 
will make this inevitable encounter al
together more comfortable. And who 
knows, maybe Jimmy is actually a 
really cool guy  but youll never know 
unless you strike up a greetinginduced conversation.
In the end, another New 
Years resolution frustratingly 
bites the dust. Everyone else 
apparently likes playing that 
game, so my ^fforts are all in 
vain. Were all much better off 
being social people, but the op
portunity cost of sociability has 
become too high. Unless of 
course, you are willing to give 
up the game and join the bees, 
metaphorically speaking. The 
next time you see Jimmy Friendof-a-Friend, give him a smile 
from 15 feet away, hold eye con
tact, and call him by name. And 
if someone gets your name 
wrong, just smile back and say,
Hey, thanks for trying. My 
name is... Anything less is just 
plain social laziness. At least 
Im trying to shake my butt.
P.S. Just two days ago, the 
person who snapped at me when 
I got her name wrong ap
proached me and apologized.
As it turns out, she made the 
same mistake later that same
day, and got stung. What goes around 
comes around.
James Mojonnier is The Tartan Art Edi
tor. He also draws Different Breed and is 
comfortable with his dormant third nipple.
his part. Then, when youre about four feet Jimmy as your lab partner or sitting As it turns out, she made the
iway from them, you quickly make eye next to him in McConomy is pretty high, same mistake later that same James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Editor
Fallen ideologys hue further proves Chinese superiority
?ED, from page 4 his desk he notes a recent report from What about the few communist coun- been used to it for hundreds of years. But for
;or that Lenin was. As the flunky who pref- the KGB chief, indicating that several tries today? Cuba, for instance, survives Russia and East Europe, the sudden influx
RED, from page 4
tor that Lenin was. As the flunky who pref
aces him yields the microphone, Stalin 
fumbles with the papers on which he has 
scrawled a few pleasantries. In front of him, 
the balcony is lavishly draped in the bright 
red of the Soviet flag. During his speech, he 
is interrupted by a top aide, bearing news 
that the Americans just completed a suc
cessful test of their first hydrogen bomb.
Afterwards, he returns to his red, red 
office, and the effects of the ubiquitous red 
flagbegin to exert their subtle influence. On
his desk he notes a recent report from 
the KGB chief, indicating that several 
minor officials have been found spend
ing too much time in the old library, one 
of the ones still unpurged of Lenins 
original writings and other revolution
ary literature. What does he do? Its 
been a long, trying day, and he has 
much more to do before he can go home. 
He picks up the red pen and scrawls out 
an order: Have the troublemakers qui
etly eliminated. Their families too, just 
to be sure.
What about the few communist coun
tries today? Cuba, for instance, survives 
despite the devastating embargo en
forced by the United States. Castro and 
his posse still wear those green army 
fatigues from the revolution days, and 
we can see from the Simpsons episode 
where Homer and Burns visit Castro 
that his office is mostly filled with tropi
cal plants. Not much red. As for China, 
red has long been a traditional color 
used widely in celebrations, so its no 
great change  everyone in China has
been used to it for hundreds of years. But for 
Russia and East Europe, the sudden influx 
of red coupled with the need for an emi
nently rational administration to run a radi
cal new society was simply too much.
So, if you ever intend to set up a new 
society whose regime needs smart handling 
and cool, level-headed officials, pick the right 
colors. That, or hire Chinese people.
Yishan Wong is willing to take any high 
government post in a world superpower on a 
temp-to-hire basis.
A PERSONS
We know weve just finished 
ringing in the new year, but 
with the government already 
planning for the Y2K bug, 
its time to plan ahead like 
good little Scouts. So we asked: 
James Moejni r/ ejTi tA TAE 
medV sA tVeo lrsm smV su93 
,EI15C
Compiled by 
Lorelei Laird & Anthony DAurla
Fred Zeleny 
Junior
Humanities and Arts
Maybe buying a computer.
Matthew Geyer 
Senior
Computer Science
None.I havent thought about it, but If its gonna happen, its 
my dad is planning on stocking gonna happen. 
up on food and buying a gun.
Nicole Takahashi 
First-year student 
Math
Anthony DAurla/Tartan Photo Staff 
Don Sheldon 
Sophomore 
Math
THE TARTAN
Carnoglo Mollons Studont Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief..................Kevin Babbitt
Managing Ed........Lisette Miller-Dixon
Business Mgr...Kristine Andreassen
News Editor....................Ish Harshawat
Forum Editor...........................Lorelei Laird
Sports Editor...............................Matt Brun
Features Editor...........................GregNofi
Acting Diversions Ed.......Rhys Conlon
Acting Calendar Ed......................Behnam
Farahpour
Dossier Design Editor................Lee-Anne
Stossell
Dossier Literary Editor.............Anne Ray
Art Editor....................James Mojonnier
Acting Photo Editor..........Anthony Chao
Production Mgr.......Derek Greentree
Advertising Mgr............Dinesh Parvani
Systems Manager..Jonathan Pearce.
Acting Webmaster...........Aseem Gupta
CopyManager.........Rebecca Fribush
Darkroom Manager Erica Yamacfa
Personnel Manager........Seth Mandel
Special Projects Mgr..........Brian Smith
Asst. Diversions Ed......Elaine Boland
Asst. Dossier Literary Ed.. .Alex Soini
Contributing Editors 
Kevin AuYoung, Ellen Beldner, 
Becky A. Cowser, Kevin Fine, Will
iam Holtz, Stephen Hsu, Ena Khan, 
Norman Mok, Tracy Odell, Ryan 
Schilling, Amit Sheth, Craig Soules
Staffwriters 
Abhay Agrawal, Wendy Buffett, Cliff 
Chien, Rob Cullen, Dave Elman, 
Clinton Field, Nick Fox-Gieg, Andrew 
Francis, Sriram Gollapalli, Rob 
Jefferson, Cynthia Kos, Katie Kowall, 
Emily Landes, David Liber, Katie 
Martinez, Melissa McMahon, 
Maureen McGranaghan, Reena 
Singhal, Asia Szrek, Christina Wong, 
Yishan Wong, Guido Zarrella
Art
Neil Babra, Matthew Blum, Cortland 
Shopper, Justin Suissa, Mohd 
Zekri Ismail
Comics 
Chris Rugen
Photo
Anthony DAuria, David Eyvazzadeh, 
LillyRouhani, Stacey Tetzlaff, 
EmilyZipfel
Darkroom 
Jimmy Clutter, Cassandra Knight, 
Susan Leu, William Long, David 
Oleszkiewicz, Diana Rutherford, Amy 
Solana
Production 
Jimmy Clutter, Andrea Okerholm, 
Rimas Svarcas
Copy
Stacey Becker, Christopher 
Dornfeld, David Elman, Claire 
Jauregui, Larissa Kasian, Matthew 
McHenry, Jennifer Terry
Junior Staff 
Karen Adams, Sara Amodio, 
Ahnya Chang, Kathleen A. 
Fischer, Stephen Gorbos, James 
Kenney, Srinivas Pullela, Adam 
Retchless, Brian Yeung
The Tartan is the student 
newspaper of Carnegie Mellon 
University. It is a weekly newspaper 
published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no 
cost to members of the University 
community. It is printed by Western 
Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. The 
editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section 
are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and 
political cartoons are the opinions 
of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are 
opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of 
the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writers 
address and phone number for 
verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests 
that letters be no longer than 350 
words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright  1999 by The 
Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit 
for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314 Phone: 412/ 
268-2111. Mailing address: The 
Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mellon 
University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities 
Fee. All rights reserved. Library of 
Congress ISSN#:0890- 
3107. The Tartan is a 
member of the 
Associated Press.

---------------------------------------------------

fame asMosj n isMjer/e TettAj Ej/deMV/ol n 1 9e3M,sMl uIII
bruaryg., 99P
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike 
Mastroianni x8-2214 
Assistant Intramural 
Director: Mike Grzywinski 
X8-2214
Intramural Secretary:
Amy Kiryk x8-2053 
Intramural President: Jeff 
. Poore x2-3913 
Womens President: An
drea Nellis x2-2611
Important Dates
Monday, February 1  
Floor hockey rules meet
ing, 4:30 pm in the Small 
Gym in Skibo Gym. 
Tuesday, February 2 
IM board meeting, noon in 
the gym Conference Room. 
Tuesday, February 2  
Floor Hockey Season 
begins.
Thursday, February 4  
Badminton (Team and CoRec) and Water Basketball 
rosters due in IM Office by 
4:30 pm.
Thursday, February 
25  3 on 3 Basketball 
Rosters due in the IM 
Office by 4:30 pm.
Sports in Season
Basketball  The games 
began last week. Sched
ules are available in the 
IM Office. Games are 
played Monday through 
Thursday evenings at the 
UC and Skibo as well as 
Sunday afternoons at the 
UC. We have 99 teams 
playing in our 4 leagues.
Faculty Grad Volleyball  
The rosters were due 
Thursday, January 21 at 
4:30 pm. Play is currently 
under way in Skibo Gym
nasium. Any questions 
rearding this league can be 
sent to kosak@cs.cmu.edu. 
He is the commissioner of 
this league.
Floor Hockey  There 
will be a rules meeting 
prior to the start of the 
season. It will take place 
on Monday, February 1 at 
4:30 pm in the Arena in 
Skibo Gym. Games will 
begin tomorrow night. 
Games are played Monday 
through Thursday eve
nings in the Hockey 
Arena.
Reminder: All email 
entries are due 24 
hours prior to the 
posted deadline. 
AP Basketball Rankings
Majors
1. White Trash
2. Frutee Guys
3. Bricklayers
Intermediate
1. Kappa Sig
2. SAE Job
3. Beta Buck Naked
Minors
1. Buttersville Bombers
2. Metros
3. Delt Scrubs A
4. Biguns
5. Hoopers
Women Only
1. Rainin Threes
2. Hoopers
3. TSA Bricklayers
Sports shorts.Swim contest draws crowds
Swimmers of all ages and 
backgrounds gathered in the 
University Center pool last 
Sunday for the third annual 
Masters of Swimming Chal
lenge. The event was hosted by 
the Carnegie Mellon swim 
teams and organized bjy 
CMU alum Jimmy Goldman 
(CFA, 60).
Participants were broken up 
into age groups ranging from 
19 to 84 years and each swam 
the mile, a 1650 yd. freestyle 
endurance event.
This is one of the only 1650 
yd. events in the nation for 
masters, said Goldman!; 
We get swimmers from all over 
the area.
All proceeds from the Chal
lenge. totaling around $800, 
went to the swim teams and 
many members of the team vol
unteered as timers and scorers.
Our goal with this Masters 
event was for people to get good 
times and more importantly feel 
good about themselves, said 
Goldman, who is a veteran of 
the Tartan swim team, a mem
ber of the CMU athletic advi
sory board, and architect of the 
University Center athletic space. 
All of these swimmers are ex
tremely dedicated  swimming 
anywhere from two to five days 
per week. I personally train for 
50 weeks out of the year.
Like this years Challenge, 
next years will be open to all 
Carnegie Mellon faculty, staff, 
and students, as well as anyone 
wishing to participate.
UAA honors CMU swimmer
Carnegie Mellon sophomore 
Melissa Schmelzer has been 
named University Athletic Asso
ciation (UAA) Swimmer of the 
Week for her performance in 
Carnegie Mellons 119-84 victory 
over Westminster College on 
January 16.
Schmelzer won the 100-yard 
butterfly in 1:01.52 and the 500- 
yard freestyle in 5:21.63. Both 
times were season bests. 
Schmelzer also swam a leg of the 
winning 400-yard medley relay 
team. The Tartans record is 5-3.
In 1998, Schmelzer participated 
in the NCAA Womens Swimming 
Championships and placed 11th 
in the 200-yard butterfly. She
owns three Carnegie Mellon in
dividual records: 1,000-yard 
freestyle (10:45.10); 100-yard 
butterfly (0:59.67); 200-yard 
butterfly (2:09.09).Crew invites new students
The Carnegie Mellon Row
ing Club will hold a general 
membership meeting for the 
spring 1999 semester on Tues
day, February 2. The meeting 
will be held in Doherty Hall 
2315 at 7 pm and is for new 
members and all those inter
ested in rowing or coxing. No 
experience is necessary.
For more information, email 
urOw@andrew.cmu.edu or go 
to the clubs web page at 
www.andrew.cmu.edu/-urOw.
Broncos cruise to Super Bowl win
By DAVID ELMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Another year, another champi
onship for the Denver Broncos. 
Last year, the team showed resil
iency by coming back to beat 
Green Bay. This year, Denver 
manhandled the Atlanta Dirty 
Birds for a 34-19 victory. Al
though the game was close early 
on, big plays by the Broncos and 
key mistakes by the Falcons 
opened a sizable Denver lead that 
Atlanta was unable to close. Again 
and again, Atlanta earned qual
ity scoring opportunities, only to 
give them away by making a criti
cal mistake.
The game started quickly for 
both teams. After Atlanta return 
specialist Tim Dwight took the 
opening kickoff to his own 37, 
running back Jamal Anderson 
crossed midfield on the first play 
from scrimmage. Several plays 
and a pass interference penalty
later, the Falcons had first and 
10 on the Denver 12. An 
incompletion and a sack, how
ever, forced them to settle for a 
32-yard Morten Andersen 
field goal.
On Denvers opening posses
sion, the Broncos used a couple of 
long bombs intermixed with short 
completions and Terrell Davis 
runs to move the ball downfield. 
The key plays of the drive were 
passes, one where wide receiver 
Rod Smith broke down the side
line for a 41-yard completion, and 
another to tight end Shannon 
Sharpe that moved the Broncos 
to the 1-yard line. Fullback 
Howard Griffith then punched 
the ball up the middle for a 7-3 
Denver lead.
Over the next few possessions, 
the tempo slowed as the defenses 
began to take control. Atlanta 
couldnt get a first down and had 
to punt, but two plays later a pass 
intended for Sharpe was tipped
and intercepted. Suddenly, At
lanta had another chance at the 
Denver 35, and Sharpes game 
had ended with a knee injury. 
Like the opening drive, though, 
this one would prove disappoint
ing for Atlanta, ending on a failed 
fourth-down run by Anderson.
Denver took advantage of this 
missed opportunity and a missed 
field goal on the Falcons subse
quent drive to open a 17-3 lead 
with a short field goal and an 80- 
yard touchdown strike from John 
El way to Smith.
Although Atlanta finally scored 
again to make it 176, the rest of 
the half was uneventful. 
Denver came out of the halftime 
break without missing a beat, 
incorporating Ed McCaffrey 
into the attack for the first time, 
and moving the ball to the At
lanta 20. The Broncos couldnt 
convert, however, with Elams 
37-yard attempt sailing 
wide right.
The mistakes would continue 
well into the fourth quarter. First 
was Darrius Johnsons intercep
tion of a Chandler pass. At the 
other end, Elam missed again, 
this time wide left from 48 yards. 
Nottobe outdone, Atlanta wasted 
a drive to the Denver 22 when a 
pass deflected by Keith Traylor 
was caught by cornerback 
Darrien Gordon and returned to 
Atlantas 24-yard line. After an
other Griffith score put the tally 
at 24-6, Gordon picked off Chan
dler again, this time at the Den
ver 4. A few plays later, Elway 
ran the ball in to give the Broncos 
a formidable 316 lead.
When the game ended, the re
sult was as many had expected. 
MVP Elway had 336 yards in 
what was perhaps his final game, 
Davis rushed for 102 yards, and 
the Falcons failed to become the 
first dome team to win a Super 
Bowl as the Broncos left Miami 
with a 34-19 win.
The School of Computer Science wishes to 
achievment of the following students who 
1998
publicly acknowledge the outstanding academic 
have been named to the Dean's List for the Fall, 
Semester.
Agrawal, AbhyudayaSophomoreFortes, FilipeSophomore
Albornoz, JordiSophomoreFrumkin, DmitryFreshman
Alonso, LuisSeniorFu, RodneySophomore
Bailey, BryanSophomoreFukuda, ShinsukeFreshman
Balestreire, ElenaSophomoreGallant, AndrewSenior
Bergou, AttilaFreshmanGauthier, DavidSenior
Bernstein, EvanSeniorGindikin, DanielJunior
Bialostocki, GuyJuniorGiuliani, JosephSophomore
Bingham, NathanSophomoreGodfrey, PhilipFreshman
Blau, FredJuniorGoldsmith, SimonSophomore
Bode, MichaelJuniorGoldstein, RachelJunior
Borrebach, NathanFreshmanGreentree, DerekSopltomore
Bruce, JamesJuniorGregorski, JohnJunior
Burlando, MichaelFreshmanGrove, MichaelJunior
Canfield, TimothyJuniorHack, StephenFreshman
Caprilian, RahulSophomoreHannum, DanielFreshman
Chalecki, JasonJuniorHeutchy, EricFreshman
Chan, Lap-WangSophomoreHorner, ChristyJunior
Chan, Shu KitSeniorIp, PaulFreshman
Chang, Bor-YuhFreshmanJacobowitz, DanielFreshman
Chang, JohnSeniorJong, NicholasFreshman
Chavier, JorgeFreshmanKadehjian, EricSophomore
Chen, NormanFreshmanKe, YanSophomore
Chung, MitchellSeniorKetchpaw, JohnFreshman
Church, AndrewSeniorKhoo, YikJunior
Corwin, SeanSophomoreKisiel, BryanSophomore
Crawford, JasonSophomoreKladnitsky, YelenaFreshman
Delapedraja, JaroslavSeniorKnepper, RossSenior
Dewan, ChristonFreshmanKoes, DavidSophomore
Dietrich, ErikFreshmanKraai, MatthewSenior
Doane, PatrickSeniorLee, Hyun-MinFreshman
Donohue, MichaelSophomoreLi, Tsz FungFreshman
Driver, DavidSeniorLo, EdsonSenior r.
Dunham, BlytheSeniorLo, Hiu YuFreshman y6
Evankovich, CarlSophomoreMa, KentSenior -%
Faulring, AndrewSeniorMarathe, AnandSophomore
Fearing, DougSeniorMartin, DavidSophomore
Fidanboylu, MehmetFreshmanMilans, KevinFreshman
kiileti, Joseph 
Murphy, Thomas 
Murray, Adam 
Nizhner, Alex 
Olson, Brian 
Opalinski, Pawel 
Park, Raymond 
Patel, Nishan 
Perret, Alexandre 
Phelps, Adam 
Plesko, Mark 
Pochon, Bastion 
Polyakov?i, Natalya 
Prevas, Konsti 
Protulipac,
Quek, Siong 
Rao, Vishal 
Reed, Jason 
Ren, Wei 
Renfrew, Robertm !Richmi
Riley, Pal
Romesberj
Rosenber;
Roy, Jarrod
Saiaja|t, Jeffrey
Schaffer,
Scherer,
Schohn, Gregory
Schumacher, Dean
Schuster, Brian
Segall, JPsht^pglgg
Sellner, Brennan
Shen, I
Shih, Ting-Chih 
s, Brian 
Sollitto, Christopher 
Song, Weiying
Senior 
Sophomore 
Freshman 
Sophomore 
Sophomore 
Freshman 
Sophomore 
Freshman 
Junior 
Senior 
Junior 
Junior 
Senior 
Freshman 
Freshman 
Junior 
Sophomore 
eshman 
iboiar 
Junior 
^fehman
Junior
omore 
.re
Freshman
JuntaJPF
Freshman
Junior
Senior
Sophomore
Sophomore
Sophomore
Junior
Sophomore
Freshman
Sotangkur, Sarit 
Soules, Craig 
Sox, Adrian 
Srivastava, Mohit 
Stephenson, Jeffrey 
Strain, Douglas 
Surana, Sonesh 
Tam, Shirwah 
Tang, Alex 
Tchou, Christopher 
Tennant, Daniel 
Teo, Leong 
ling, Daniel 
Tira-Thompson, Ethan 
Tran, Chanh-Duy 
Trask, Barrett 
Tremonte, Christopher 
Treeratpituk, Pucktada 
Tsue, Evan 
Tumanov, Ivan 
Verschell, Henry 
Walker, Sean 
Washburn, Geoffrey 
Wierman, Adam 
Wildstrom, Jonathan 
Williams, Cory 
Wilson, James 
Winter, Sarah 
Wong, Ming Fai 
Wong, PikkwanIIS
Zarrella, Jeffrey 
Zermatten, Stephane 
i Zhao, Xin
Sophomore
Junior
Freshman
Junior
Senior
Freshman
Sophomore
Junior
Freshman
Senior
Sophomore
Junior
Freshman
Freshman
Freshman
Senior
Freshman
Sophomore
Senior
Senior
Sertior
Sophomore
Sophomore
Senior
Freshman
Freshman
Freshman
Freshman
Freshman
Freshman
Senior
Sophomore
Junior
Freshman

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie MellonCWwvWCC5vWw
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYSteven M. GoodeMEGClarence C. MysenECERaymond T. ThngECE
PROUDLY ACKNOWLEDGES THE ACADEMICSriram G GopalanECEHerain OberoiECEGina M. VeneziaCHE
ACHIEVEMENT OF THE FOLLOWINGAlissaJ. GreenECEKevin F. O'BrienCEEMichael J. WallaceCHE
ENGINEERING UNDERGRADUATESKendra M. GromponeCEEKenn R OldhamMEGRobert GroschCHE
WHO HAVE BEEN NAMED TOPatrick L. O'MalleyCHE
THE DEAN'S LIST FOR THE
FALL SEMESTER 1998:SOPHOMORES
SENIORSHaitham Abu-SbaihECEMasaru FurukawaECEDaniel P. PostoianCEE
Gregory W. AlexanderECEChristopher J. GuerraECEJohn A. RamseyECE
Bader K. Al-EssaMEGJoseph G HuangECEUmar K. MunroeMEGColin A. AsheMSERobyn L HardenMSEMaayan RothECE
Andrew R. ArtzECEJeffrey D. HemphillCHEShane A. NagatoniECERobert A. BarryMSEWilliam F. HeinECEMikhail SandlerECE
Michael S. BakerMEGBenjamin E. HentyECEKyle A. OppenheimECERebecca M. BemgarttMSESamuel S. HongECETemsiri SapsamanMEG
Drew P. BerwagerMEGSamuel A. HoffmanMEGDavid E OrmsbyECEAndrew D. BoyerECEJefferson HuECEJonathan R Schwanbeck ECE
Michael F. BlackhurstCEEDiego L. IglesiasECEAndrew B. OxnardMEGWan-Yu R ChanCHEAaron G HulaMEGfflPMaria G SensiMEG
Peter W. BoettcherECEAdam Z. KlatzkinECEYun Kay A. PauECETom M. ChenECEMatthew D. JuhaszECEMark SinECE
David M. BottCEEBengliang KohECESimon M. PeffersECEJike ChongECENeil A. KapadiaCEEJared SmolensECE
Daniel J. BowersoxECEWesley M. KopackaCHEMatthew B. PhelpsECEBrian R ColonnaECEDavid KoganECERussell J. SnyderECE
Tracy E. BurtonMEGKristopher L. Kriechbaum MEGTimothy W. RichardsonECENicholas G. CrainMEGJason D. LawrenceECEDenise L. SohMEG
Todd W. CahillCEEJiyoung LeeCEECharles M SchroederCHEThomas V. CrimiECEMay LeeMEGChristian T. StidsenCEE
Matthew W. CarlsonMEGMichael G LeeMEGMichael K. SergiMEGKevin L. DaviesECEMichael W. LibbyECEChoon Hong TayECE
Rebecca A. CasslerCKh/HPP Cristina D. LeyCEEAkshat H. ShahECEVanessa L. DomCHEDaryl H. LieuECEYang WangECE
Ling CheungCEETze Bin LohECEAaron N. SiegelECETamer M. El-CalamawyECELiamLimCEESy Bor WangECE
Jason T. ChowECEMelissa J. LoweMEGHarmit SinghECEWilliam A. EmmerECEMichael T. LohmillerECEChih-Chi a WenECE
Thomas E. CurryCEE/EPP Adam D. MadiganCHEJason K. SmallECEBrenden P. EppsMEGGeorge F. LuECEAlyssa A. WerthmanCHE
Annemarie DevineCHELawrence K McCartinECEAmy P. SokalskiCEEFrancis J. FlemingECELaura S. MiyakawaECEChristopher J. WhiteECE
Timothy O. DrewsCHBEEP Tobin L. McDanielCHEHiroatsu SugimotoMEGAndrew J. FrancisMSEParag R PatelECEHeather J. WightmanMEG
Li-Ping FanCEEAdrienne M. MessengerCEEYoshiki ToriiCHEKevin M. FrederickECE/EPP Aaron D. PolitskyECEStephen M. WolfeMEG
Michael K FenwickCHEChris T. MesserCHESandi M. ToviasCEEMark A. FriedganECEStephanie D. PolliceMEGRichard G YamellECE
Amit FleischerECEJason H. MessingerECEMichael D. WagnerECEAdam L. FromECENiti YongvanichMSE
Merritt D. GileMEGTrevor C. MeyerowitzECETimothy J. WameckECEj
Matthew J. GiuniperoCEEJeremy J. MichalekMEGRebecca J. WehrerMSEFIRST YEAR
Marian D. GoebesCEERobert J. MiglioreECEStephen A. WetterCHE
Ilya E. GurevichMEGAndrew C MihalECEAfolabi WilliamsECE/EPPAditi BajoriaIan M. LawlerRohit U. Rao
Jeffrey M. HarperECEWilliam H. WongECEHoon Y. BangMatthew G, LeathermanJohn G. Rogers
David M. BubienMalcom W. LeungPeter O. Schmidt
TUNIORSDiane M. BudzikShing Tai LeungCarsten A. Schwicking
James G. CasazzaGregory M LiYashabh Sethi
Rachelle R AbatCHEWilliam J. HoltzECECharles T. OswaldECEYu Cheong ChanEe Thian LimAmy E. Solana
Imad M. AhmedECEEric F. HopperCHEVincent A. PaganoCHEKing Lun ChoiWilliam Y. LiuJason P. Soli
Kevin M. AlmirallECE/EPP Svend HoyerECEErnest J. PusateriECEJonathan M ChuRangan MajumderGene T. Soo
Christopher E. BatesMEGJonathan M. HsiehECEKireet M. ReddyECEJustin A. EraciJoshua K. McKinleyBenjamin W. Stolt
John M CafardiCHERaymond C. IpCHEAn and H. SadhwaniMEGEric L FongJoseph P. MontenaroWatcharapan Suwansantisuk
Michael S. CampieCEEKyle E. JenningsECEScott P. SannerECEPhilip W. FongStephen A. MuckleTerence M. Tan
Carmen E. CarrerasMEGCheiyl J. KaminskyCHEMichael D. ScottECEDennis Y.FimgHam Hua NgAtul Tantia
Matthew K Chamberlain MEGManoj KapaiCHEBeth A. SekowskiMEGJunichi FurukawaKim-Haw NgEno Thereska
Yue ChangECEBradley M. KeiyanECEMichael S. ShellCHEShaheen GandhiYik-King NgMatthew B. Thomas
Stephen E. CisarCHELars KuepferCHEDavid L SimonECEGautam GargFrances J. NingRoy S. Thompson
Earl N. CraneMEGCha Kun LeeCHEChristina SimoneMEGJames R GraceHenry A. PellerinNiraj Tolia
Leanne M. CrosbieMEGSumit LohiaECEMichael A. SlowikCHEAaron P. HurstRobert F. PierryAmeet N. Vaswani
Brett M. DiamondECECourtney E. MarrettMEGBrian R SmithMEGHarrison J. JacksonJames A. PistoleJames H. Wade
Samuel Ferraro-PollakMEGMichael B. McElroyCHEChristopher Steiling MEG/EPPI Thomas J. KlasenAndrew J. PomeranceHowe Chung Wan
Scott H. FroomMEGPaul A. MooreCHEMichael A. StolfiMSEAnthony J. KolbMartin Priego-WoodMatthew E. Wick
John P. GallagherMEGSupratik K. MoulikCHEStephanie A. SzobotaMEGKayoung Ky
j . '
Srinivas PullelaSurya Wijaya
Hpl ) LET 'rBES*aas$*
rvK)lU SS?) Ja
I Cil J . A k~*
APERSO
Clueckjwg Owf for Spr'wy Bveald
lil do ail +V\e dvwit^  FW+y erf room,
A-fWdMe - ill ev&r\ give 
io S+wdev\t kvoy&oqe, Car Mewbers, or 
10% off t-f you cAn staw we your -face cm a Student I.D.
1-f you wawt more. WSo, call we at |"&00"USAr"|^sAil 
600-S3S-2920 or W+ wy Web-SiTe at WMArmrK>cow\
Offer shown is for coach dass travel only and is subject to availability. Reservations are required. No multiple discounts.
Fares, schedules and restrictions are subject to change without notice. Blackout dates may apply. Not valid for Autotrain, peak Metroliner or Canadian portion of VaRaii.

---------------------------------------------------

20% DISCOUNT
WUUhmG X
' Vii put a lot of hard work into finding butter ingredients 
so you don 7 have to work hard to find a better rizza."
with intelligent and talented 
teammates?
tackling challenging java software 
projects?We Dont Just Promise You A Better Pizza. 
We Deliver.at a highly successful and respected 
startup in Silicon Valley, California?
NncR an mSkS ethSisS pSoonh btathl 
4643 Baum BoulevardInformational Meeting*
February 4
:30-7:30pm
Porter Hall, Room 226A
Better Ingredients Better Pizza.
FREE DELIVERY AND CARRYOUT
*- A gift will be given to the first five students 
to arrive.One Large 
One Topping
One Large One Topping & 
An Order of Breadsticks
Contact Information: 
iwanttowork@clti. com 
www. citi, com/college 
408.543.4400 
408.752.8460 FAX
Headquarters:
1252 Borregas Avenue 
Sunnyvale, CA 94089CHAIN LINK
TECHNOLOGIES INC.
; Not vain in combination with anyothor offers, coupons 
and special promotions Additional toppings extra 
' Customer pays an appicobto sates tax VaHd through 
V30/99 ovtf at Pnou join s Oakland location
Not valid in combmoton mesm any other offers cocpons 
ond special promotions Adtonal toppmgs extra. 
Customer pays o appicaWe soles tax Void through 
6/30/39 onfy at Papa John's Oakland location
Not valid in combination with any other offers, coupons 
and spedal promotions Adlnonai toppings extra 
Customer pays al applicable sales tax vaid tnrougn 
6/30/99 only at Papa John s OaWand location
G rettug lfi >grr 
usGy G sfug> iffX
For All
STUDENTS, FACULTY, & STAFF
Comprehensive 
Examinations 
Contact Lens Fittings 
Contact Lenses 
(Bifocal, Disposable, 
& Daily Wear)
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMCl/Pitt/Hospitals.
uMcmtDAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http://www.shadysideinn.com
Optometrists:
fE rnhtoR yslu. & fE Ytmst pnySaa
5824 Forbes Avenue Squirrel Hill *521-2100
Call for an appointment

---------------------------------------------------

' From 99I > 
Free Trips & 
Group Discounts
Houns OFpfSX &t,NKS 
Jamaica Cancn Florida 
South Padre Bahamas Barbados
Lowest Prices / Best Meals 
CALL TODAY! 1-800-426-7710
ame asMosj n isMjer/e TettAj Ej/deMV/ol n u 9e3M,sMl uIII
Swimmers look to continue recent success
SWIMMING, from page 10
ronment for most of the team and train
ing, as always, will be the most impor
tant aspect, and is an area where the 
team feels they have an edge.
Last year the Championships were 
here so they knew the environment, 
said Belowich. This year we will prob
ably have less distractions.
Its nice to be able to look toward 
UAAs, said Nickles. Now we realize 
that all the hard work since September 
will pay off. Im really going to focus on
what I do in the water and what coach 
wants us to do.
A crucial part of the teams success 
this year was the respect that 
every member of the team has 
for Belowich.
I think were more prepared this year, 
said Hildebrand. The team as a whole 
has confidence in [Belowich], which is 
especially important in tapering.
Im glad they have confidence in me, 
said Belowich. They know I have a plan 
for the next three weeks, and well
follow that plan. I have confidence 
in them.
In addition to UAAs, many of the Tar
tan swimmers are also looking to qualify 
for the NCAA Division III national meet. 
Diver and first-year student Brandon 
May qualified for the meet with a spec
tacular performance last Saturday in 
the meet against Westminster College, 
and many Tartan swimmers will rely on 
turning in season or even personal 
best times at UAAs to get into the na
tional meet.
Nationals are definitely a bigger goal 
this year than last, said Robinson.
[Nationals] are something where you 
have to believe you can do it, said 
Belowich. [Swimmers] have to be 
aware of what they need to do and trust 
in their hard work and training. It will 
be an agonizing wait, however, since 
the final cuts for the national meet 
are not released until March. Hopefully, 
the longer wait will make the news 
that much sweeter for those who do 
make it.
Regardless of the outcome at UAAs 
and anything that may happen for those  
who qualify for Nationals, the CMU 
swimmers can celebrate a successful year ' 
both in the water and as a team. The ^ 
men barely missed a perfect season, and 
the women equalled their best record1 
ever. Its been a lot of fun,said Belowich.  
Ive had a lot of teams over the year$~; 
that have accomplished a lot of good; 
things. This team has a marvelous work' 
ethic ... theyre exciting, fun to work.' 
with, and just really nice people.
Win streak eludes men
MEN, from page 10
of the shots, with the others coming from firstyears John Poling, Dean DuBois, and Jim Abel.
CMU was unable to pull away, however, setting 
up perhaps the most dramatic finish of the three 
games. With the Tartans leading 61-60 with 1:45 
to play, first-year forward Adam Hawkins grabbed 
the rebound of Abels missed shot and was fouled. 
Only one of the two free throws dropped, however, 
leaving CMU a slim two-point lead with just over 
a minute remaining. A Chicago field goal tied the 
game at 62 with just 55 seconds to play. Both teams 
had quality chances over the final minute, but the 
defenses were more than up to the challenge. 
Neither team could convert either of the two chances 
they had to win the game in the lastminute, and the 
game went into overtime. Chicago had the final 
shot of regulation, but the desperation heave fell 
harmlessly away from the basket.
Feeling a much-needed win slipping away from 
them, the Tartans stepped up their intensity to a
whole new level in the extra frame, not allowing 
another Chicago field goal. The only point 
Chicago could manage in the five minutes was a 
gift from the officials as Chicago converted one of 
two free throws after a phantom foul was 
called on Abel.
The Tartans, meanwhile,had no trouble scoring 
and put up 10 more points. Bowersox drove for an 
early lay-up and Abel hit yet another three-pointer 
as the Tartans sprinted out to an early five-point 
lead. Late free throws by Abel, DuBois, and senior 
center Dan Bowersox in the last minute sealed the 
gut-wrenching victory.
The win ended yet another losing streak by the 
young squad, fortunately before it grew too long. 
The Tartans will look to build on this win as their 
home stand continues with upcoming games against 
Washington University of St. Louis, New York 
University, and Brandeis University, all UAA ri
vals. The Tartans record now stands at 5-11 
overall, 2-5 in the UAA.
classified
Women come back to win
WOMEN, from page 10
game at 32 after five hard-fought minutes. Just 
when it looked as if the Tartans would take control 
of the game, however, Chicago stepped up the 
pressure once again, and quickly stretched their 
lead back to seven.
With time running out on another game, CMU 
refused to quit and slowly began to claw their way 
back a second time. Finally, with 1:45 remaining, 
a driving hook shot in the lane by Majemik leveled 
the score for a second time, this time at 52. On the 
ensuing Chicago possession, the Tartan defense 
swarmed around the ball and forced a turnover. 
The beneficiary of the Chicago turnover was junior 
pguard Sherry Cribbins who found herself wide 
open on the right wing. Receiving the quick outlet
pass, Cribbins calmly set herself and buried a 
three-point shot to give the Tartans their first lead 
of the game with just under a minute to play, 
55-52. The shot set off a wild reaction from both the 
fans and the bench, including Seidl. Theres 
no better feeling, she said. Sherrys been on and 
off with injuries, so that had to be just great 
for her.
After two free throws extended CMUs lead to 
57-52, Chicago answered with a quick field goal of 
their own to narrow the gap to just three. With time 
running out, Chicago was forced to foul Petruzzi 
immediately after she received the in-bound pass, 
and she hit one of two free throws to seal the 58-54 
victory with 10 seconds left. The Tartans record is 
now 8-9.
OPPORTUNITIES
Extra Income for '99. Earn $500 - 
$1000 weekly stuffing envelopes. For 
details  RUSH $1.00 with SASE to : 
Group Five, 6547 N. Academy Blvd., 
Dept. N, Colorado Springs, CO 80918.
PERSONALS
Flowers for romance, birthday, 
platonic, formals , and more. Make 
someone smile. Group Discount. Alex's 
Flowers. 687-4128. 687-ALEX. Call 
before noon for same-day delivery, 
www.alexsflowers.com.
REAL ESTATE
Ambassador Avenue Townhouse.
Location, location, location. Walk to 
work/school. Sunny home and private 
fenced front and back yards. Three 
bedrooms, two and one half baths. 
Hardwood floors. Finished lower level 
stunning cathedral ceiling master. Best 
townhome in Shadyside. Nancy 
Follansbee, Coldwell Banker, 781-8929.
Send your Valentine Friday, 2/12 and 
enter a drawing to win your order free.
Flowers for Greeks and rush. Alex's 
Flowers. 687-4128. 687-ALEX. 
www. a lexs flowers, com.
Editor-ESL Specialist. Knowledgable, 
experienced, patient. Graduate degrees 
in Linguistics. Professional Writing. 
Helps faculty/researchers finalize 
important documents. (412)422-4508. 
ndownes@worldnet. att.net.
TRAVEL
SERVICES
Flowers for Valentines Day. Alex's 
Flowers. 687-4128. 687-ALEX. Delivery. 
Credit Cards OK. www.alexsflowers.com.
Low Student and Faculty fares to 
International destinations. Good 
Domestic fares, AYH and Eurail Passes.
9-5 M-F, 4609 Winthrop St. Off S. Craig. 
Forum Travel 681 -4099 (800) 888-4099.
CANCN, BAHAMAS, PANAMA CITY.
Get FREE PARTIES AND DRINKS with USA 
Spring Break! Call (888) 777-4642 to 
book your trip today!
ACT NOW! Last chance to reserve your 
spot for Spring Break! Group discounts 
FOR 6+. Call Leisure Tours for South 
Padre, Cancn, Jamaica, and Florida. 
(800) 838-8024.
#1 Spring Break Specials! Cancn & 
Jamaica $399, Bahamas $459, Florida 
$129, Free "Spring Break Uncensored" 
video included!!! (800) 234-7007. 
www. endlesssummertours. com.
#1 Panama City vacations! Free Parties - 
No Cover. Best beachfront hotels from 
$129. Free "Spring Break Uncensored" 
video! (800) 234-7007. 
www. endlesssummertours. com.
Spring Break 99! Cancn, Nassau, 
Jamaica. Travel free and make lots of 
cash! Top reps are offered on-site staff 
jobs. All-inclusive deals, 32 hours free 
drinks. Special discounts up to $100 per 
person lowest price guaranteed. Call 
now for details! www.classtravel.com 
(800) 838-6411.
GET THE HELL OUT OF HERE! Mexico, 
the Caribbean, or Central America $199 
round trip. Europe $169 one way. Other 
worldwide destinations cheap. Book 
tickets on line www.alrtech.com or (212) 
219-7000.
Daytona and Orlando Florida. Bahamas 
Cruise! Prices available from $129 per 
week. Sell trips, earn cash. Local 
experienced agencyAMITY TRAVEL.
Call for information (800) 966-9464.
Classified Rates
1-20 words..............$10.00/wk
21-50 words............$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date 
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
Adoption services, inc.
 A licensed, non-profit agency
SAT TUTORS NEEDED 
Score! Prep
Math or Verbal 
Great pay, flexible hours 
Excellent scores, own transportation 
and reliability a must!
Call now to set up an interview 
1-800-PREP-182 
On campus interviews 
February 5**1!
SALE
$8 CD's & VIDEOS 
3 for$20
CD TRADER
New and Used 
Buy - Sell - Trade - Reserve
201 South Craig St.
5 minutes from CMU campus
412-687-6626
New Years Resolution:
Youve got to get away
N/ooV3,Mrm oA TeR/0A i/olh 19A vMA,jP oM/Kk Kt,V osR 
/ oA aA.lAG 
MA,jP oM/Kk Kt,V osR
DJI
N/ooV3,Mrm oA aA.lAhG
N/ooV3,Mrm oA -AO3slG
DuuuI MA,jP oM/Kk Kt,V osR 
N/ooV3,Mrm oA zAjAt,t,k zs's//G 
DfJI MA,jP oM/Kk 
Kt,V sjl s/MKAMo osReV 
UAV HjreteV oA clPjelG
DI4I MA,jP oM/Kk Kt,V osR 
ze' AM.2We'sM. oA UAjPAjG 
DJ7f MA,jP oM/Kk Kt,V osR
CouncilTravel,
Council on International 
Educational Exchange
118 Meyran Avenue Pittsburgh. PA 15213 Phone:412-683-1881
Theres a whole world 
out there!
Explore it with ContikiThe #I tour for 18-3S year olds
12-DAY TOUR OF 8 EUROPEAN COUNTRIES 
(visit England, Belgium, Holland, Germany, 
Austria, Italy, Switzerland and France). 
With airfare from Pittsburgh - $1470 
based on shared accommodations.
8-DAY TOUR OF 4 EUROPEAN COUNTRIES 
(England, Holland, Belgium and France). 
With Airfare from Pittsburgh - $990
22-DAY EUROPEAN TOUR INCLUDING 
11 COUNTRIES (England, France, 
Monaco, Italy, Vatican City, Austria, 
Germany, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, 
Holland and Belgium). With airfare 
from Pittsburgh - $1880.00
CouncilTravel
Council on International 
Educational Exchange 
I 18 Meyran Avenue Pittsburgh. PA 15213 Phone: 412-683-1881
INFORMATION NIGHT
BS/MS/Ph.D GRADUATES
Get down 
to
the Point!
enhlsRS bSshi t bna.S, 
psSla n lslaS sh a.S 
eta.nosu e.cu.E 
Ahfnmtasnh utoo 928-5884 
n NrPe@JchnEunm
!e listen & help!
yo obligationo
You have alls T P? _
the choices!
1o3hh-9W3-hWhhP4/wwwoadoptiohscrvicesoorg
Bring copies of your resume.
DATE: Tuesday, February 9, 1999
TIME: 6:30pm-8:30pm
LOCATION: Hammerschlag Hall, Room B131
DRESS: Casual
DISCIPLINES: Computer Engineer 
Computer Science 
Engineering 
MIS
Technical/General Sales
Ye r/de Me0ejo rMsP,soeV ome oAAtVk ome V,KKAMo 
sjP ome MeVA,M0eV omel jeeP oA eRKtAMe /PesV? 
YeBMe K,Vm/jr om/V 0AOKsjl oA ome Wom PerMee?
And you can take us there.
yvcva 'do/'?0l3M3t,?/3O?0AO
IBM is commuted to creating a diverse 
environment and proud lo be an equal 
opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

OT win snaps basketballs two-game slide
Tartan women take two 
of three from UAA rivals
By MATT BRUN
Tartan Sports Editor
game ... but we need to get stron
ger, Seidl said.
Having split the two games
After having their two-game away from home, the team fiwinning streak snapped nally returned to Skibo Gymnaagainst Johns Hopkins on sium last Friday, January 29 to 
January 17, the CMU womens play host to another UAA rival, 
basketball team hit the road the University of Chicago. Early 
looking to get back on track on, it looked as if Chicago would 
with a pair of UAA games 
at Brandeis Un
iversity and New
York University.
The first stop of the twogame road trip was 
Brandeis U. on Friday,
January 22. From the 
very start, it was obvious 
that the game would be a 
low-scoring, defensive 
battle as a seemingly end
less string of whistles 
slowed the game to a 
crawl and prevented ei
ther offense from per
forming at a high level.
The game tempo was 
high school-ish, head 
coach Gerri Seidl said.
It was just whistle, 
whistle, whistle.
The low scoring contin
ued for the remainder of 
the half, and the Tartans 
took a four-point lead into 
the locker room with a 
mere 21 points. Though 
the slow pace didnt con
tinue into the second half,
CMUs impressive play 
did. Led by sophomore 
guard Lauren Petruzzis 
12 points, the Tartans re
mained in control, and 
won the game 56-46. Jun
ior guard Lacey Perretta 
and junior forward Kara 
Coval also scored in the 
double digits for CMU.
The excitement of a 
well-earned road win 
wouldnt last long, how
ever, as New York Uni
down again. It would be an
other four and a half minutes 
before the Tartans would score 
again, as Chicago built up a 
14-4 lead. Showing incredible 
poise and control, CMU made 
the necessary adjustments, 
playing the rest of the first half 
very evenly matched. The Tar(,j/AM r,sMP z/tsMl zsMM/V omMA'V ,K 
im/0srA? ame oesO 'Aj s Ks/M A6 rsOeV
versity knocked the Tartans have their way with the Tartans, 
scoring the first six points of the 
game and using an aggressive 
full-court press to stifle the 
CMU offense.
After CMU finally got on the 
board with a lay-up from junior 
forward Amy Novak two minutes 
into the game, Chicago clamped
back down to earth, literally, 
on Sunday, January 24. NYU 
used their tremendous physi
cal advantage to muscle the 
Tartans around and won 66- 
40 despite junior forward 
Samantha Majerniks 22 
points. We played a very good
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff 
sj A66h3stsj0e VmAo srs/jVo 
srs/jVo EHH M/dstV?
tans couldnt erase the damage 
done early, though, and trailed 
by eight at the end of the 
half, 30-22.
The second half started 
slowly, but the Tartans kept 
fighting and chipping away at 
the Chicago lead, tying the 
Please see WOMEN, page 9
By BRIAN SMITH
Tartan Special Projects Manager
Were gonna whoop ass! The 
words of sophomore Julie Tseng 
summarized the mood of the Tar
tan swim teams going into the 
biggest meet of the season, the 
UAA Championships at Emory 
just three weeks away. With the
David Belowich. Its great be
cause that is what will carry us 
[at the UAA championships] 
in Atlanta.
I was really impressed, said 
junior Mike Robinson. Everyone 
was incredible.
The+Mens team had a rela
tively easy time with Allegheny, 
winning 186.5-113.5 and ending
The wear from a season of hard 
training began to show through 
versus Allegheny. It was our last 
week of hard training and we are 
pretty tired, said Hildebrand.
Theyve been working really 
hard, echoed Belowich. Theyre 
tired because were doing more 
sprinting in workouts. Its all a 
part of the tapering process. ...
mMomjmmn lanan rnuiu oian
ame 'AOej reo A66 oA s 0tesj VosMo srs/jVo Httermejl /j om/V edejok 3,o tAVo ome Oeeo?
regular season now under wraps, 
the Tartans are finally justified 
in focusing on the UAAs, some
thing they have been doing for 
the past couple of weeks.
Last Saturday, the teams 
passed their final milestone be
fore the UAAs, and the women 
faced some of their toughest com
petition of the season when they 
hosted Allegheny College in the 
University Center pool.
The meet was filled with per
sonal bests and even a pool record. 
The CMU relay team of first-year 
students Erin Andrew and Sara 
Schultzer, sophomore Becky 
Hildebrand, and Tseng set a team 
record in the 200-yard freestyle 
with a time of 1:42.83.
There was some real good rac
ing going on, said head coach
the regular season with four 
straight wins and a 9-1 record.
Everybody pretty much had a 
great meet top to bottom, said 
fifth-year senior Wayne Nickles.
Last Saturday represented the 
final meet for some swimmers, 
who wont be going to the UAAs, 
including sophomore Phil 
Costanzo. I went into the meet 
looking to break all of my season 
and lifetime best times, and I 
did, he said.
The fact that Phil and others 
were tapered and shaved for this 
meet and improved their times 
by five or six seconds helps the 
entire team psychologically, said 
Belowich. Now everyone else 
sees them and realizes where they 
will be in three weeks. That re
ally helps our confidence.
There are a number of things 
that were going to do in the next 
few weeks that make people feel 
weird or tired or whatever but 
they will help us swim fast
er at UAAs.
The women came away with a 
close 163.5-136.5 defeat to the 
nationally ranked Allegheny 
team, finishing the year 6-4 and 
tying last seasons record-setting 
finish. Our schedule was a little 
tougher this year, said Belowich. 
The fact that we finished just as 
well helps the confidence of every 
individual and team as a whole. 
With the regular season out of 
the way, the team now focuses 
100 percent of their efforts on 
preparation for the UAAs. At
lanta will be an unfamiliar enviPlease see SWIMMING, page 9
UAAs dominate focus of
Tartan swimming teams
By MATT BRUN
Tartan Sports Editor
With their four-game losing streak a 
thing of the past, the mens basketball 
team looked to continue their winning 
ways in a pair of tough road games 
against UAA ri
vals Brandeis 
University and 
New York Univer
sity. The games 
offered the Tar
tans a chance to 
make a late-season run in the 
UAA standings.
The first game 
of the two-game 
road trip was Fri
day, January 22 at 
Brandeis. The 
game was a close, 
hard-fought 
battle between 
two very evenly 
matched teams.
Neither could pull 
away during the 
game, setting up 
a dramatic final 
minute. With just 
over a minute to 
play, sophomore 
guard David 
Burns hit a threepoint shot to give 
the Tartans a fivepoint lead, 71-66.
The teams then 
traded free throws 
to make the score
72-68 with just 32 seconds remaining. 
Things looked to be well in hand for 
CMU, when a Brandeis guard singlehandedly crushed the Tartans hopes for 
a second straight win. The Tartans could 
only watch in bitter disappointment as 
Brandeis junior guard Josh Mahan put
uiba lainaua/ lanaii u/amiuum iviaiiagci
cej/AM 0ejoeM gsj -A'eMVAR 6/rmoV s im/0srA KtsleM 6AM s Me3A,jP?
on his own personal basketball clinic. 
Mahan scored eight points over the next 
29 seconds, including a pair of free throws 
with 3.8 seconds left to lift Brandeis to a 
76-75 win. The winning free throws 
came just six seconds after CMU had 
missed a pair of their own free throws 
that would have put the 
game out of reach. Senior 
guard Tommy Praesel and 
junior forward Brad 
McNutt had 21 and 18 
points, respectively, in the 
losing effort.
Fortunately for the Tar
tans, they didnthave time 
to dwell on the disappoint
ing loss as their road trip 
continued with a game at 
NYU on Sunday, January 
24. At the start of the con
test, it appeared the game 
was going to be another 
nail-biter, as neither team 
could gain an edge 
through the entire first 
half. At halftime, the score 
was deadlocked at 34. As 
the second half pro
gressed, however, disap
pointment again began to 
rear its ugly head as NYU 
began to pull away. The 
Tartans shot just 31 per
cent from the floor in the 
half and gave NYU 22 free 
throws (16 of which were 
successful) as they 
dropped their second 
straight game, 77-66.
Looking to turn things 
around before another los
ing streak developed, the Tar
tans returned to the friendly 
confines of Skibo Gymnasium 
last Friday to play host to the 
University of Chicago. Once 
again, the two teams were 
evenly matched, setting up 
yet another close game for 
CMU. With both teams play
ing very strong, physical 
games early on, Chicagos 
size advantage proved to be 
the only point separating the 
teams, and the Maroons took 
full advantage of it.
Hustle and determination 
by the Tartans neutralized 
Chicagos edge in rebound
ing, but with Chicago play
ers blocking shots left and 
right, the Tartans offense 
was forced outside. Unable 
to generate offense inside, the 
Tartans perimeter shooting 
suddenly went stone cold, and 
Chicago quickly took advan
tage, pulling out to a sevenpoint lead by pounding the 
ball inside against the 
smaller CMU forwards.
Having earned most of 
their first-half points on free 
throws, the Tartans were fac
ing the prospect of a large 
halftime deficit when firstyear guard Dom Ionadi caught fire. 
Ionadi hit a pair of three-pointers with 
30 seconds remaining to cut the Chicago 
lead to two. Another CMU field goal tied 
the game at 28 going into the break.
Another cold spell at the start of the 
second half let Chicago re-gain a five
Erica Yamada/iartan Darkroom Managercej/AM r,sMP aAOOl NMseVet tesjV /joA s VmAo 'm/te 
A3VoM,0oeP 3l ome im/0srK Pe6ejVe?
point edge when CMU suddenly broke 
out an incredible streak of clutch shoot
ing. Trailing 37-32, the Tartans hit 
three-pointers on their next six posses
sions to take a six-point lead, 50-44. The 
spurt was led by Praesel, who hit three 
Please see MEN, page 9

---------------------------------------------------

rabiliSsl
LI Uli Pa
Volume 93, Issue 15The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania1 February 1999
What's the problem?
v msoe N/ooV3,Mrm? u msoe Ol MAAOOsoe? v msoe ome 6AAP? v msoe Ol PAMO? v msoe Ol KMA6eVVAMV? v msoe Ol 
aHBV? v msoe KMArMsOO/jr? v msoe msd/jr jA OAjel? v msoe )17 0tsVVeV? v msoe I17 0tsVVeV? v msoe 
u717 0tsVVeV? v msoe VjA'? v msoe Ms/j? v msoe mAOe'AM.? v msoe Vo,Pl/jr? v msoe Ol Oest Ktsj? v 
msoe Ol 6M/ejPV? v msoe 3e/jr V/0.? v msoe TAjPslV? v msoe Kejj/eV? v msoe om/V 0A66ee? v msoe Ol 
3AVV? v msoe V/jr/jr? v msoe Ol 6tAAM? v msoe Ol tsjPtAMP? v msoe PsM.jeVV? v msoe 0mesK 3eeM? v msoe 
0AtP VmA'eMV? v msoe tA,P O,V/0? v msoe Osom? v msoe r,lV? v msoe r/MtV? v msoe OeVV/jeVV? v msoe K/?Complaining at CMU
/ msoe ts,jPMl? v msoe 'M/o/jr KsKeMV? v msoe 0AOK,oeMV? v msoe stthj/rmoeMV? v msoe s'.'sMP V/tej0eV? v 
msoe K,3t/0 P/VKtslV A6 s66e0o/Aj? v msoe O/jP rsOeV? v msoe msjrAdeMV? v msoe eMsVs3te /j. KejV? v
msoe 's./jr ,K s6oeM PsM.? v msoe 's./jr ,K 3e6AMe jAAj?
v msoe AKo/O/VoV? v msoe KeVV/O/VoV? v msoe Mest/VoV? v 
msoe /Pest/VoV? v msoe *,j. Os/t? v msoe 0t/O3/jr 
Vos/MV? 1 msoe VtA' etedsoAMV? v msoe Ol 
Os*AM? v msoe t/6e? v msoe VKAMoV? v 
msoe lA,? v msoe Oe? v msoe 
MAOsjo/0 0AOeP/eV? L msoe 
3e/jr tsoek / msoe KeAKte
Pet peeves plague daily routine
By WENDY BUFFETT
Tartan Staffwriter
I wake up in the morning to the 
sound of my roommates alarm clock 
blaring out Christian talk radio. I 
attempt to fall back asleep, but she 
decides to continuously crumple cel
lophane, step on every creaky floor
board, and drop most of what she 
owns. After she leaves, I enjoy five 
seconds of quiet before my alarm 
goes off.
I reach the bathroom door just as 
it is locked from the inside by my 
suitemate, who doesnt have class 
for three hours. She then showers 
for 15 minutes as I attempt to get 
dressed, pack my books, and feed my 
fish while dancing around frantical
ly. When she finally finishes, I 
sprint in and slam the door behind 
me. There is, of course, no more toi
let paper on the roll. However, a 
brand-new roll is sitting five feet 
away on the floor. Its a fact: I am 
the only one of five women who
knows how to change a roll of toilet 
paper correctly.
I run across Forbes at Morewood, 
avoiding beeping cars because of the 
idiot who hadnt pressed the walk 
signal and then prevented anyone 
else from doing so by leaning 
against the pole. I speed-walk to 
class until I get stuck behind a 
group of people who block the entire 
sidewalk while going astronomically 
slow. I step into five inches of mud to 
pass them and get to CFA at 8:59. 
Thirty-five of my fellow classmates
and I cram into the elevator and 
groan as it stops on the first floor to 
pick up an old man and an architec
ture student. The old man presses 
the Mezzanine level button; the stu
dent hits number two. The coffee 
pressed against my back seems to 
get hotter as I realize we will be 
stopping on every floor.
I cant print out my work because 
there is a class of five people in the 
CFA cluster whose teacher screams 
hysterically if you so much as open 
Please see DAY, page L2
Professors relate their woesStudents ponder crankiness
By KATHLEEN A. FISCHER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
If there is one thing that Carnegie Mellon stu
dents are good at, it is complaining. Since I 
entered CMU, I certainly have developed a pro
clivity towards whining. My dorm is too hot. My 
dorm is too cold. I have too much laundry. I have 
too much work. I am tired of the food. I am just 
plain tired. As it turns out, students are not the 
only ones; our professors have a few gripes of 
their own. But surprisingly, few faculty members 
complained a lot about their students.
One pet peeve of computer science professor 
Randal Bryant is one shared by many students: 
the lack of pluses and minuses on final grades.
When one student has an 89 average at the 
end of the semester and another student has a 
flat 80, it is frustrating to give both students 
the same grade, when clearly there is a big dif
ference between what the two students have 
accomplished during the semester, he said.
The biggest complaint from physics profes
sors Robert Suter and Thomas Ferguson was 
Weans strange interior. This is understand
able, as their offices are composed of cinder 
block walls with lighting similar to the fluores
cent illumination of a hospital room.
Suter also said he dislikes the floor of his 
office. [I have] the worlds ugliest carpet. I 
have tried to request a new one, but as long as 
it is in good condition, then I will have to keep 
it, he said.
The carpet is a 1970s reject of mustard yellow 
and olive green, and the observation that it is 
the worlds ugliest will likely go uncontested.
Several professors have wish lists for the 
classroom, including economics professor 
Kathryn Shaw. I did complain in front of my 
students that the blackboards in my classroom 
require that I stand on a stool to reach them, 
she said.
Peter Steams, Dean of Humanities and Social 
Sciences and history professor, pointed out the 
discrepancy between all of CMUs clocks. I do 
love CMUs inability to get campus clocks on the 
same time, he said. Its a nuisance sometimes 
in starting classes. But it does enchant me as a 
feature of a great technological university that 
cant quite get 19th-century technology rights.
Outside the classroom is a minor nightmare 
for any professor with a car: trying to locate a 
parking spot (preferably a legal one, but not 
necessarily). Along Margaret Morrison Street, 
cars bump each other as the drivers try to parallel-park station wagons in parking spots 
meant for scooters. Electrical and computer 
engineering professor JoAnn Paul pointed out 
that a parking permit in hand does not alleviate 
parking troubles.
[I feel sorry for] all the poor people who were 
all excited when they got Hamburg Hall 
parking permits this year for the first 
time, only to have the Hamburg 
spaces taken away for an indef
inite and seemingly infinite
By CYNTHIA KOS
Tartan Staffwriter
You can hear it in the halls of Doherty, in the 
common areas of the University Center, and 
even late at night in the clusters. Its the ever
present moan, sigh, or occasional scream of 
frustration, discontent, and disgust. Students 
here complain about a 
variety of issues, 
and now some are 
realizing just 
how many peo
ple complain and the degree to which it has 
affected the tone of the entire community.
Theres a general sentiment of apathy and 
non-caring, not only about the school, but about 
everything, said Andrew Mar, sophomore elec
trical and computer engineering major. It just 
especially reflects itself in the school.
I think that students are focused on what 
they want to do as far as their careers go, which 
makes everything they do that much more 
important, said Elise Selinger, a junior materi
als science and engineering major, who feels 
that students complaints usually rise from the 
trials of balancing classes, work, and sleep.
We like to complain about how the workload 
at CMU is so much greater than at other 
schools because it makes us feel smarter 
than students at other schools, said 
Stephanie Szobota, a junior mechanical 
engineering major.
Erin McLaughlin, a sophomore biology 
major, agrees that students direct their 
attention solely to their work, and that is 
what brings down their morale. People 
here cant even pretend to be nerds. All 
there is to do is work  even on the 
weekends, said McLaughlin.
But it is not only the sheer burden of 
the academic work that students feel 
causes the widespread discontent on 
campus, but the combination 
of work, and that there is nothing 
to do, as opposed to other schools. 
Most of my friends go to 
schools where they have decent 
sports teams and something to do 
every weekend. To them, the idea 
of doing work on a Friday night is 
frightening and starthng,where
as here it seems to be the norm, 
said McLaughlin.
Some students feel that the 
University itself is responsible 
for several of the issues that 
continue to instigate campuswide negativity.
Some of the complaints 
include lack of improvements 
to food services and athletic 
Art Editor Please see THEORIES, page L3

---------------------------------------------------

UJame asMosj n isMjer/e TettAj Ej/deMV/ol n u 9e3M,sMl uIIION CAMPUS
College Briefs I Black History Month features varied events
ef>>gGg fl 
ltyg Giur
The School of Art will be present
ing three month-long faculty exhi
bitions beginning in February at 
the Foreland Street Studio on the 
North Side. Various works by par
ticipating full-time faculty will 
include the full spectrum of con
temporary art-making. The exhibi
tion runs from February 6 to 27 
with an opening reception this 
Saturday at 6 pm.
eGiygGtg tyrutuug 
flugesyf>fGY
Pradeep Khosla, professor of elec
trical and computer engineering 
and robotics and director of the 
Institute for Complex Engineered 
Systems (ICES), has been named 
the first recipient of the Philip and 
Marsha Dowd Professorship of 
Engineering.
Khosla, who joined Carnegie 
Mellon as an assistant professor 13 
years ago and was promoted to pro
fessor in 1994, has become a major 
influence within the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology and 
Carnegie Mellon as well as a 
nationally recognized researcher.
GiGnGug resff> fl 
tynruitG> GnXtytruiGutfy
The next operations research 
seminar will take place this 
Wednesday in GSIA146 at 3:30 
pm. Professor John Hooker will 
present The Art of Relaxation. 
Two key techniques for solving 
most optimization problems are 
strengthening and relaxation. 
When minimizing, strengthenings 
provide upper bounds and relax
ations provide lower bounds. Even 
though both methods are essential 
it is much more obvious how to for
mulate and enumerate strengthen
ings than relaxations.
sXGytutgr & 
rfetG> retgyegr
This Thursday at 4:30 pm in the 
University Center McKenna Room, 
there will be a workshop to help 
students prepare for the upcoming 
H&SS Job Fair 99.
This fair is an opportunity for 
employers to mingle with students 
and recruit for summer internships 
and full-time positions. This years 
fair takes place on Tuesday, 
February 9 from 11 am until 4 pm 
in Rangos Ballroom in the 
University Center. Students from 
all colleges are invited.
Xg>>fy ef>>gGg 
fl retgyeg
The next Center for Non-linear 
Analysis (CNA) Seminar will be 
held this Tuesday in Physical Plant 
Building 300 at 1:30 pm. 
Mathematical Genomics: The
Next Step will be presented by 
Mark Perlin from the Computer 
Science Department.
Perlin will examine the sources of 
efficiency in the next generation of 
genome technology. He will exam
ine the mathematical approaches 
needed to optimize the acquistion 
of genome information.
resff> fl 
efXPugi retgyeg
Raymond Kurzweil, founder of 
Kurzweil Applied Intelligence and 
Kurzweil Educational Systems, will 
be presenting a Special SCS 
Seminar. The lecture will begin at 4 
pm in Wean 7500.
Kurzweils talk, called The Age 
of Spiritual Machines, is based on 
his book of the same name which 
was recently published. He will dis
cuss the history of computation and 
artificial intelligence along with 
making startling predictions for the 
future of technology.
By GREG NOFI
Tartan Features Editor
Seventy years ago, when high school 
teacher Carter Woodson realized that 
there were no schools that included 
African-American history in their cur
ricula, he established Negro History 
Week. This week would eventually 
evolve into Black History Month, an 
annual celebration, each February. 
Woodsons motto, It is never too late to 
learn, still holds true as various CMU 
organizations have planned activities 
aimed at educating the campus about 
the African-American heritage.
The month-long celebration kicks off 
right away with Keepers of the 
Dream: A Celebration of Significant 
Sistahs which begins today at 7 pm in 
McConomy Auditorium. The 
University of Pittsburghs Kuntu 
Repertory Theater, under the direction 
of CMU graduate Janelle Hammond, 
will perform the program, which is a 
historical portrait of African-American 
women. This production has been 
described as similar to the musical 
Bring in da Noise, Bring in da Funk! 
with estrogen.
The next event is a two-day affair put 
together by the Black Faculty and Staff 
Association. The 2nd Annual Vendor 
Fair will take place in Rangos Ballroom 
this Tuesday and Wednesday. Local 
merchants will be selling various 
African-American articles between 10 
am and 4 pm. Some of these 
items include clothing, art, jewelry, 
and food.
Tartan file photo
UsVo lesMk KMAoeVoAMV 0stteP 6AM ome 0sj0ettso/Aj A6 0tsVVeV Aj TsMo/j U,omeM x/jr gsl 
sV 'ett sV OAMe edejoV 0ete3Mso/jr -ts0. z/VoAMl TAjom?
We wanted to spotlight all the 
African-American vendors in the com
munity, said Carolyn Manley, the 
University Center (UC) coordinator of 
scheduling and organizer of the event. 
We also just want [an outlet] to offer 
their products to the campus.
On Thursday at 5 pm, an event in 
the Connan Room will provide an 
opportunity for African-American 
members of the community to congre
gate. The event, called Black Faculty, 
Staff, and Students Get Together, has 
a simple purpose, according to Zalenda 
Cyrille, sophomore mathematical sci
ences major and president of SPIRIT.
The goal is for the 250 black employ
ees of CMU to meet with the 150 black 
students, since the two worlds dont get 
to meet often, said Cyrille.
The following week, on Monday, 
February 8, over half a dozen organiza
tions are combining efforts to bring 
poet Nikki Giovanni to McConomy 
Auditorium. Her lecture is entitled, A 
Black American, a daughter, a mother, 
a professor of English. AB Political 
Speakers, SPIRIT, the Office of the 
President, the Office of the Dean of 
Student Affairs, the College of Fine
Arts, the English Department, 
CAUSE, the College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences, and the School of 
Drama are all sponsors for this event. 
This free event starts at 7 pm, and all 
students are invited to attend to hear 
Giovanni, a critically acclaimed poet 
who has had many books of poetry pub
lished over the last thirty years. She 
will speak about diversity on the col
lege campus and how to make a differ
ence instead of submitting to apathy.
The CMU chapter of Amnesty 
International will also be hosting a pre
sentation this month. On Friday, 
February 19, in the University Center 
Danforth Lounge, Black History and 
Current Issues will tackle human 
rights issues that presently affect the 
world. Everyone in the community is 
invited to attend this event, which 
begins at 8 pm.
These are only some of the celebra
tions that are taking place during 
February. The UC Information Desk 
has information about other activities.
All members of the community are 
encouraged by the organizers to attend 
these events regardless of their race. 
Manley believes, as Woodson did, that 
it is never too late for everyone to learn 
more about the African-American cul
ture around them.
I dont think everyone knows all the 
contributions of African-Americans, 
said Manley. I personally dont know 
the contributions of Polish-Americans 
or Irish-Americans, for instance. Thats 
why its important for students to take 
advantage of any opportunity like this.
January 28, 1986...
getos as, getos Ks/joeP ome 6ej0e Aj ome u1om sjj/deMVsMl A6 ome oMsr/0 imsttejreM eRKtAV/Ajk 'm/0m 0ts/OeP ome t/6e A6 iTE st,Ojs (,P/om 5eVj/.?
CMU culture creates unique complaints
DAY, from page LI
the door. I suppose I must brave the 
mysterious smell of West Wing. I 
would have printed it out in 
Morewood, but that printer (not to 
mention half of the computers) hasnt 
worked for three months.
At last, I can break for lunch. Shall I 
try the UC, where they take your 
money, wipe their nose, and then make 
your sandwich with ungloved hands? I 
definitely dont want to wait an hour 
and a half for my soup at Skibo while 
every number besides mine is called. 
No, it looks like lunch at Highlander.
Luckily, I dont hate a certain 
Highlander employee as much as 
everyone else does. I think its funny
when I walk in the -------------------------
right-hand door 
and she tells me to 
go back outside and 
come in the lefthand door. Inside, 
the pasta is loving
ly overcooked, the 
mashed potatoes 
are served with an 
appetizing splat 
from the ice-cream scooper, and the 
soda is flavored with extra seltzer. 
Upon leaving the Caf, the two cookies 
in my hand are confiscated by the pre
viously mentioned employee and
placed back on the dessert tray 
because Im not allowed to carry any 
items out of Highlander 
Now what? I could try exercising, 
which is always fun. Dressed in my 
worst clothes, I get to walk through 
dozens of people who are trying to eat 
without feeling guilty. Not to mention 
the lovely fish-bowl feeling of being 
watched by total strangers as you 
attempt to torture yourself with the 
utmost dignity. I remember that one 
time after exercise when I smelled to 
high heaven and looked like something 
out of a horror movie, I had to pass the 
table of the guy Ive had a crush on all 
year. Remind me to write a thank-you 
note to the genius that came up with
I could use the printer to print 
out 500 copies of my tax returns 
despite the fact that 20 frantic 
students need to print out 10 
sentences worth of homework. 
the idea of combining unhealthy food, 
body odor, and large glass walls.
Perhaps Ill head on over to the near
est cluster, where I can slow down my 
friends computer by saving humongous files to his server. Or, I could use 
the printer to print out 500 copies of 
my tax returns despite the fact that 20 
frantic students need to print out 10 
sentences worth of homework. Even 
better, I could go sit next to a broken 
computer and not tell the people who 
get on it that its broken. Well, not 
until after they have wasted 10 min
utes and have lost any opportunity to 
get on one that works, anyway.
Wait, its Friday! McConomy must be 
showing a bad movie. I can climb over 
twenty people to the only available 
seat, which is behind the five people 
who are standing up and looking into 
the audience for ... who, Elvis? 
Whoever it is, they never show up. 
Then the lights dim ... and come back 
on, and dim again ... and come back on 
again, and finally shut off, and the 
movie starts to play ... without sound. 
The audience cheers, and I hear the 
genius say, Hey, coming June 1998! 
That was last year! and hoot at some 
anorexic fourteen-year-old actress 
with no talent and a television series 
with low ratings.
On second thought, maybe Ill go back 
to my room. But its pledge week, so the 
frats will be chanting all night long to 
drive the girls in Morewood CD-Tower 
absolutely wild with desire. And I also 
cannot wait to hear the Beastie Boys
Anthony D'Auria/Tartan Photo Staff 
Neo Neede 1I CReM0/Ve MAAOV and 
6AAP 0A,Mo VmA,tP jAo rA oAreomeM?
and Ghetto Superstar played at full vol
ume 5000 times.
So, another day ends at CMU, with 
people honking wildly as they drive by, 
the students on the floor above clogging 
in platform shoes, and our possessed 
toilet flushing constantly. Ah, the good 
life. Thank goodness Im not at Pitt.

---------------------------------------------------

ame asMosj n isMjer/e TettAj Ej/deMV/ol n u 9e3M,sMl uIIIU1
Student body complaining 
causes increased concern
THEORIES, from page LI
facilities, for example, as well as 
lack of organization for events 
that would somehow liven up 
the campus a bit. Students are 
even more upset that their com
plaints are being ignored. They 
kind of listen to the complaints 
that come up, and then they 
improve campus the way they 
think it should be improved, 
said Mar.
It may take time for the com
plaints to cease, but in the 
meantime, some students just 
hope that people start making it 
better for themselves. People at 
CMU are not willing to go out 
and make things to do on their 
own. They expect fun to fall in 
their laps, said Bethany 
Matthews, a sophomore chem
istry major. When it doesnt, 
they complain that there is noth
ing to do.
I think people just waste their 
time sitting around thinking 
about how much work they have 
and how theyre not having fun, 
rather then just doing the work,
and spending the rest of the time 
on something they enjoy, said 
Rita Bosch, a junior business 
administration major.
Overall, many feel this is a 
problem that continues to sur
face and resurface each time 
someone complains. The com
plaints feed off of each other, 
and the community becomes 
crankier overall. Students hope
that something can be done to 
create a more positive atmos
phere, but in the meantime, 
they want the students to try 
their best to help themselves.
I dont think there is much 
the University can do about 
peoples attitudes about this 
place, said Bosch. It is up to 
us, the students, to change 
them ourselves.
Want A Challenge?
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL
Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force 
OfficerTraining School. There you will become a,commissioned 
officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, 
complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year, 
plus the opportunity to travel and 
AIM HIGH See the world. To discover how high
ftlft a career in the Air Force can take
"""fOftCEy you- caM 1-800-423-USAF, or visit
our website at www.airforce.comwww.airforce.com
THE TARTAN
Recruitment Meeting 99 
Wednesday, February 3 at 5:00 pm 
Baker Hall 136A (Adamson Wing)
All are welcome to come, 
find out about Carnegie 
Mellons student newspaper 
and eat free pizza,
If you are unable to attend this 
meeting and are interested in 
working for The Tartan, you can either 
call X8-2111 or e-mail smandel for 
more information about The Tartan.
Privacy debate causes columnist to grow uneasy
The Geek Beat
by Ellen Beldner
I am sick  gut-wrenching, proteindenaturating sick  of privacy.
In short, I am sick of the privacy wars 
that everyone in our Netted culture has 
to fight, because struggles to keep ones 
social security number private should
nt have to be fought in the first place.
But fight them we will: Washington 
University is testing a health-recordson-a-smartcard information retrieval 
system with groups of patients. Intel 
piously announced, in the name of the 
God-sacred e-commerce grail, that each 
instance of its forthcoming Pentium 
Ills will have a unique ID number  to 
be broadcast over the Net whenever the 
chips owner decides to dial in. (Luckily, 
Intel retreated under pressure from 
advocacy groups, making the ID fea
ture available on all chips, but only 
activated if the user says so.)
Most disturbingly, states are begin
ning to sell drivers license photos to 
Image Data LLC - a private databasebuilding firm that claims it is building 
a database to help cut down on fraudu
lent use of credit cards, checks, 
Blockbuster cards, and what-have-you. 
Now that the government is getting 
into the commercial act by selling pho
tos that citizens have no choice but to 
have taken, we are, frankly, screwed. 
Both South Carolina and Florida sold 
out their citizens to Image Data, trad
ing photos for about a penny each, 
ostensibly to let the local Piggly Wiggly 
clerk see if you really look like the 
72dpi 80-pixel by 80-pixel image dis
played on their cash register when they 
run your credit card.
As a Florida resident, this agitates 
me, to put it mildly. Not only did legis
lators ignore the fact that image selling 
might be illegal in a state with an 
explicit right-to-privacy clause in its 
constitution, but it was also done with
out my permission and notification.
For all I know, each time my younger 
sister steals my video rental card to 
check out NC-17 flicks, the squeakyvoiced Blockbuster clerks are pulling 
up the horrible chipmunk-cheeked 
photo that adorns my drivers license 
(although if the recent overdue notice I 
got from Blockbuster is any indication, 
they still dont care whether the person
in the photo looks like the person rent
ing the video). The problem is, though, 
that I dont know, and neither do any of 
the other 14 million Floridians whose 
images have been effectively stolen and 
resold to the highest bidder.
Unless such practices are prohibited, 
competing database services will soon 
sprout, each vying to provide retailers, 
marketers, snoops, 
and the like with 
more and more 
information about 
each of us. Credit 
rating? Got it. Social 
Security number?
Right over there, 
between the list 
of books recently 
purchased from 
Amazon.com and the name of your 
most frequently visited pizza parlor.
In a dream world, this problem 
would be easy to solve. All CEOs, tele
marketers, and petty bureaucrats
What we need, in addition to a 
healthy sense of paranoia and 128-bit 
encryption, is a reinvi^orated sense of 
utter apathetic indifference towards 
our fellow man. Picture the marketer 
receiving an online registration form 
for, say, Yahoo! email: Ah, so your 
annual income is $60,000 - $80,000 a 
year, you have a masters degree, and
"Rather than the default state of 
each individual retaining control 
over all information about him, 
the default has shifted to com
plete information dissemination. 
you work in drug smuggling? Well, we 
dont care - not even enough to waste a 
K of hard drive space on you! 
Obviously, this is a demented libertarian-anarcho fantasy, bred of too much 
working in the DMV would shut off Tim May paranoia on the cypher punks 
their computers and go sit in the mailing list. Its not going to happen;
woods. There, they would fast for a 
week  I am tempted to advise 
against all fluid intake during said 
time, just to see how thoroughly 
Darwinism would rid of us some of 
these prime human specimens  and 
meditate, repeating the phrase we do 
not care as their mantra.
we need the force of law on our side.
The horrible thing about the privacy 
wars is that the individual now bears 
the burden of proof in protecting his 
privacy. That is, rather than the 
default state of each individual retain
ing control over all information about 
him, the default has shifted to com
plete information dissemination, a sys
tem under which individuals have to 
go to great lengths to protect their 
packets. We have no way to even know 
what information exists about us and 
who can access it, much less how to 
correct errors or conceal things that we 
wish to.
Even though Sun Microsystems CEO 
Scott McNealy told us last Tuesday,to 
get over our privacy fixation, we have 
a right to demand that all personal 
information be under our direct con
trol. Minimally, we should legally be 
able to view  free of charge  any 
records maintained about us; we 
should legally have the right to change 
any erroneous information stored 
about us, also free of charge. And the 
government should in no way, shape, 
or form be allowed to distribute or sell 
any form of personal data about us, 
unless it has our explicit permission 
to do so. It is time for us to go to 
http:/www.house.gov/houserep/, get a 
mailing address, write our representa
tives, and complain.
Im sick of debating about privacy. As 
far as Im concerned, the issue isnt 
even up for debate.
Ellen Beldner is a junior professional 
writing major whose name isnt really 
Ellen Beldner and whose major isn't 
really professional writing.
b.S btath sl
Faculty share their gripes
FACULTY, from page LI
period of time, said Paul. 
When those folks take an 
extra long walk every morning, 
there really should be signs up 
along the way with the most 
recent projected date when 
they will get their space back. 
The University Center was 
also cause for some complaint. 
Susan Swan, English profes
sor, is tired of the distinctive 
yellow bricks, while German 
professor Anne Green complained about the current allo
cation of the UCs resources.
The fact that [it] is not used 
for classrooms really irks 
me.... I understand that the 
rooms are for events, meet
ings, and student organiza
tions  I use them myself for 
such things, said Green. But 
couldnt we teach in a few of 
the rooms on a regular basis?
From these few professors 
points of view, the biggest 
gripe seems to be not students
inability to arrive at class on 
time, or that students eat, . 
drink, and chew their gum in 
class, or when they come beg
ging and pleading for the high
er grades. Students complainenough to compensate for 
their professors lack thereof. 
On the contrary, it seems that 
professors are overall positive 
and complimentary of their 
students and CMU as a whole. 
Maybe students could try fol
lowing their example.
WhatYour
Details coming your way soon.

---------------------------------------------------

S
omeone needs to invent a person-friendly superglue. 
You know what I mean: some kind of instant adhesive, 
but one that can be dissolved quickly and doesnt contain 
any kind of toxic substances. Imagine it: no more photog
raphers having to cajole or otherwise capture the attention 
of wiggling infants; just slap some UberGlue on their butt, 
sit them down in the right place, and snap the picture 
before they start to cry. Think thats cruel? You havent seen 
what thev do to those poor little chimpanzees at the zoo!
mmm mm
by Scott /4dams
>l999MAmr.wtt> Iff IVIHoA.1 Cool! WoRM 6uTS.'UNTIE 
"TVAE NEIGHBORS 
kUD DO YOUR 
vAOtAEO^ORK
So I iMor/ Tot tAEe 
dV lu9sV39 ,dJJIV9 
uV1 5dCI JgI UdJJUI 
1vIIy u gIuJ uJJuSNw
pE pEcE 1m00Eitm6F 
IuJgvs,9 IN BloLoGY 
CLASS ToDAY, So I JMMb 
u yLVSg sf JgI dVVu19 
gs,I vdJg ,I 
dV u TUu9JdS vguJ
BAGGIE. FOR?
MAYBE 
I'LL COME 
BACK 
LATER.
ht pt: 
/arn: 
:n.: 
webcmudFi
J//
. . . AND ONE BOX OF 
THOSE BIG BINDER 
CLIPS... (----------------
SUPERGARGANTUAN 
MEGA ONE, 
AT LEAST.
oF COURSE, I 
arpat0 fMcFEt
THAT HES Ncrr A
UdJJUI /pEEWw
rr>
WHAT'S So 
FUNNY?
yISuL9I Mf 
JgI TuNdV5 
SLVSgR
I'M So ANGRY WHY?
THEY OPENED THAT BECAUSE 
CoFFEEBUCKS SMACK ITS 
IN THE MIDDLE oF So 
THE OLD ToWN SMTMuJIR
9joacE w n
rj Vro
8ECAUSE IT'LL HURT 
ALL THE MoM AND PoP 
COFFEE SHoPS?
WEiao0E mt30 i pM6/EcE/ 
cmFAt M6 tAE pAh Am0
RoDTE PETER TEETH WERE
TAKES HOME CHATTERING AIL 
FRoM SCHOOL. THROUGH DINNER.
I WAIT, LIKE A 1 
CHEETAH, FOR A 
CHANCE TO ASK  
HER FOR THE KEY 
TO THE SUPPLY - 
tr^"\CABINET. )
AS USUAL, CAROL IS 
ON THE PHONE 5 
YELLING AT HER j 
KIDS.
ARE
YOU
WAITING 
LIKE A 
CHEETAH?
m MO RE 
OF A 
PANDA.
EH. FoRGET 
I MEANT IT, THEN. 
SHOVELING |
LAST NIGHT'S ^
SNoW OFF f
TOE DRIVE- L-riP
pah fmc0tw \ f '-h
Vs 1Lgw 
fMcto6atErhP 
I HAVE A 
REAL PASSION 
FoR THE GAME.
YOU'RE 
LOOKING 
AT A 
FAIR 
AMOUNT 
I OF WORK.
OUT To THE 
WHERE ARE DRIVEWAY To 
You GOING? SH00T SoME
1
I figure with Michael 
Jordan Now retired, 
the NBA'S GOING To BE 
IN DiRE NEED oF A NEW 
SUPERSTAR To FilL THE 
V01D. HEY, WITH ENOUGH 
PRACTICE, iT COULD BE ME
HOW WAS YOUR^ 
FIRST WEEK OF 
IfAfAORT ALITY ?
fAY PLAN IS TO SPEND 
THE REST OF (AY LIFE 
IN AN OLD COFFEE 
CAN, EXPERIENCING 
NOTHING. HENCE,
\ | IMMORTALITY.
BOB, HAVE VOU EVER 
NOTICED THAT THE 
PEOPLE WITH THE MOST 
EXPERIENCE ARE THE 
X" \ ONES WHO DIE? ISO FAR, IT'S 
OVERRATED.
uSJLuUUKP d3, VMJmimV5 
MoRE YouR 9iAMMr PHoTo 
TAPED OVER HIS FACE.
ITS THE TEASER 
Poster For 
THE UPCOMING 
STAR WARS: 
EP1S0DE I." 
N I BOUGHT IT 
j ON THE 
2 WEB.
IT SHOWS THE YOUNG ANAKlN 
SKYWALKER, WHO, AS WE ALL 
KNOW, GROWS UP To BECoME 
THE CRUEL, UNF0R61V1NG 
SYMBOL oF EVIL THROUGH
OUT THE GALAXY. g
WHATS
THIS?BUT IT COILL ALL BE 
FOR. NOTHING IF 
YOU OON'T SEND IT 
\ OUT TODM.
I STAYED AlOAKE FOR 
TOO DAVS STRAIGHT 
TO FINISU THIS 
\R.FQ. bV THE 
DEADLINE.
I'LL POT IT IN THE 
fAIDDLE OF THIS 
STACK SO I WON'T 
------------\ FORGET IT.
Notice the 
F0REB0D1NG 
DARTHV VADER-ESQUE 
SHADOW HE 
^ CASTS.
A BoY 
CAN DREAM, 
CAN'T HE?
BY RuBBiNG I HEARD 
YouR THAT 8Y
CHEEKS?/ STIMULATING 
J THE SKIN AND
GETTING CIRCULATION 
GoiNG, IT HELPS THE 
Aamc kMrrmirE0 1M 
JgId JgdV5w
I, UM, HAVE AN 
ITCH ON MY HEAD, 
I SWEAR.
Son, when mother nature 
IS READY FOR You To GRoW 
SIDEBURNS, it'll happen. 
RUBBING YOUR CHEEKS 
To GRow HAiR IS ABouT 
THE SILLIEST THING I'VE \ 
EVER _ \ I
WHAT ARE
You DoiNG? TRYING 
I To 6R0W
r rSIDE8URNS.
I'M TAKING YOUR 
URGENT DOCUMENT TO 
THE OVERNIGHT DROP 
BOX, WITH NINE 
fAINUTES TO 
f[sPARE./~ "
THE BOX XS ONLY 
EIGHT MINUTES 
AWAY. I'LL STOP FOR 
COFFEE FIRST. 1---------'
DON'T WORRY. IF 
THE TRUCK IS PULLING 
AWAY FROIA THE BOX, 
I'LL WEDGE THIS IN THE 
BACK BUMPER. t~------'
dJ39 UmbE KsL guCI 
9MeE 9Mct Mf 
FE6Etmi m6aWmrmth 
Jo DRAW THINGS 
THAT AREN'T 
CUTE.
WHO'S THIS LITTLE You MEAN 
6uY WITH GLASSES THE ONE 
THAT YouR UNiCoRN SPURTiNG 
IS IMPALING? ALL THE 
\ CUTE
BL00D?
5mcr0 arpah0 /cap raeE.M
THINGS LIKE UNICORNS. 
NEVER TANKS OR ROCKETS
Mc /m6M0aoc kace0wP mt30 
G arpah0 yottEckrmE0 Mc 
D am6WMp0 Mc krMpEc0 
f vmtA UdJJUI guTTK fuSI9w
SO YOU'RE PROBABLY ^ 
GOING TO APOLOGIZE 
AND GIVE N\E A BONUS J
FOR MY (V------- =*FFFORT WHAT'S YOUR 
-ysrir SECOND GUESS?
THAT'S BECAUSE YOU 
SAID ALL OVERNIGHT 
KAIL MUST GO THROUGH 
YOUR EVIL AND LAZY 
SECRETARY, r------------
ALICE, tOE LOST OUR 
BIGGEST CUSTOMER 
BECAUSE YOU MISSED 
THE R.F.Q. DEADLINE.
YOU'RE WHAT'S THAT 
DRAWING SUPPOSED 
A UN1C0RN? Tb MEAN? 
EH, FIGURES. I
by Jim Meddick
I SMD I FEEL LIKE I'fA 
CCMNSWAN WITH THE 
fro-D COUsM -' CO^GHHACK
VWI. TO TO READ VOOR HOROSCOPE? IT SAYS/'IF YOUGOOUTTONISHT, A BRIEF CONVERSATION COULD LEAD 10soviE iowG,nar, Onemimght omgxptIN HIE 8EDRCONA. ;-----
tot) SOT \N0PE. NOT SINCE I GOT 
CC06tt6P\miJATUPAl.i 
ON &( \0RSANIC-, HOLISTIC 
SotAECWe I HEALTH MS.' 
vmttHE ritSf*-' 
FLU, Wt> \ rtVfe 
WRE ksjanWi
Nw Cisss ^ r
WE 6E&(J POUNDING ECHINKEAAMOeXKtJ SEAL... SEEKS ftESA 
POSING VITAMIN C AND I'VE SOT ZINC ISIENSES IN EVEPV ORIFICE 1  COULD TUlNK OF
W>lP6a aREKt'IFEEl 
VffiANT '. iFea.
'too wT Y get tot mm newTO FINISH 1 tE. HIPPIE Wfc 
OFF THE k OUTTA MY SiattV 
lcgos. I vr-astfiSi'
. TEA?- J  X XT
I'WSORW...
1 DIDN'T (lTIE 
CATCH TW,T...
SQUll, Nmmm
TONIGHT?

---------------------------------------------------

Lemon Insi . sTtkUHt w ) 
reo&g-ess. [----------------------------------------------
fflASI! OUU> te PL6ASEPMAXIMAN. 
AND EARL
James 1 
|4jomiie'
\ bop. rry hancSs aren4- )
. -^oo Colei -
I f-----/rnrnm.- no,
W (JP.S^PS ssht,
|<l4 1f, u)oulA j=u rob some. 
SUtlblocK ori meT? ,/
(part 2o of 11) 
by Xohd Zekri tsmail
rtV ; even u/e safest m i
IH 7HC kW? ddeDvsro iceer |
me cur. i iwe pw>vp vse^TO  IWSret Of/r-------1 tllHTtf&J !!
WjrwFTW^s^rwrmic 
Youfce rcALi-Y 'route/
owiA ter cacy Wfr# rr. /
A wof-P op 
Ai>vi, HtKTCVH.
^ifra-V ari. yo'J 
doing? Sfibri 
vs a der'w'! 
SheM\ b<ea*
l i/oor Vi9r+-
/v\aVcii, fee 'PememWerOi3,V arei S*\ abouV Sevyn-fw, doW V \\sten 
hrniShe'^ 
a hoHie'. Go/* 
-fcr "+/ /f 
NOT U>W. you UNpe*jE5pmATE
ny aw-A-iurv,/w/uw. 
W iw-PMcms me no cp 
IF fflev DON'T coMMecT. (
w cast nme  otecto, haiwv 
MXI-STSWM poes hot mt*l 
w Atf'r ee khock 
urttohtsaajs g /
poe5 we sipemcf 
Httfr to (we* y 
AS weu- ? /
OoVi! GtooA one! I'm s huf-V.1 
\'(l come. o\Jer -Hifif and y 
ipoA jour uia^efj ass/>/i'm ogp c sipewct !
>' 15 (WTNii.? y
ende*. wav, Mrew is 
 \rOzmip' os.'
awtH'H4pt29Fi7YitrzP aFE6t0 iMrrEit 
JgeiAtLiS u6mR S7SMlR JgI?aw kMB2 
TtH&lR. OVEESEEES .P-^WTHEVnAy 
ADJUST THE lje-TH aPlHt RED LljHTS.
PUSH 
ftUTTOW 
pbpWAV-V.
& I ts f^LTHV
DOSI'"1"
WMJT
YO'J
TO
b6Mp l. e'1'
Carb
SOTTO tJ
MeoK)'^exr  pip^r ftux)p
Wtk1'
SVTTeyJ
THE *\BG65 ASE ACTUALL.V alLLZAR> l,es>,wK USgtHG TALi-l&S 
TD GP TPAQc oP TMG 3Nva,uo3
(vvove^>JTs ftBoul JAE cines.
bVetOTJAU-Y^Slrt 9MyJrI STgP rmFAt
KMilPVLATlitfO, TH LIZA,RP^6b' w>U-t>UE r*AN NTCceAuS FoR-SL>.\je.V
To Ttf rA\GHTY "fn dUj()367zedLP 
9*xC BIM IN The 5ALT (w\INfe> -The Harder They Are The Farder They Chew
UZARB MAfi
Androgynous Axe Murdering Porn
by: James Kenney
menv
PSJ7&C* ?L5 fifrn^oR.
Trilobytes Incubatingby Karen Adams
Uv &99C'cok EdZk * yhhhhhhhhh
q 3qo /oBV s  &t 
l*oaU6 Vmsql?  : vlh
^ jTCeRvi \
-----------.Jae/(J (
i ) ^ itoMtM's 
Gkhhhhhhhhiggg cav99vcE? BhBy
HMM. OH, JV4T 
1capm6F u 
COHIC 3T1)P About us.
mvgutigu
\ t)0|M 
Now I'm 23, and I've been a model for 
Calvin Klein for over 2 years.
I go by the code name ''Calvin ReKleiner' 
I do 3,789,124 abdominal crunches daily. 
I decided to purchase an axe on tuesday.
At age 13,1 decided to "just be".
After spending most of my after school life 
just being a permanent fixture on the sofa, 
infusing my arm into a bag of fat free 
potato chips, I decided to "just be 2 for men/h/h me38S q SoMt
CXkLAPSTtCkl
CMtRt.i 
k VooRfe 
^ 60*N& To 
[flALT^ 
IstRvtCfeS.
 /fAMt) low 
lqMHHa,5H S
-77 Ib BfcLtfeV 
y/'WGCi" AMD 
A/ &utWuG efsK 
lA*wr rr'?<
(A TRltHTtN 1N&
\ BtNAbdlL- I \ iNCAiCt y CgoMaUcpmgs  [ViITH,A udvglrrFf
Calvin asked me to twist and writhe in agony 
one time too many, and I just beheaded him, 
it was a clean cut...no need to cauterize 
the wound. "There is definitely no risk 
of gangrene?", the doctor said, "but we will 
have to amputate his right arm just in case!"
Now I star in underground pornographic films, 
my code name still remains "Calvin ReKleiner". 
"Hey ladies, I ain't axing you nicely!
(thats my line). My premier film "Good Behead 
will premier, (no-one ever emailsijpkenney)
WEM?
Io UREver since Ive started reading TARTAN COMICS, 
the money has just been rolling in. Its 
changed my life. If it can happen to me, it can 
happen to you, too. Thank you, Comics Guy! 
 Sally, a faithful Comics Reader
UHM...
CooJSlDt
Nwpc06FFb
THEARNB
K^tAliD.
HMBE y<w*e 
JamesM MM& ,ZJ yI 
0mib mk t
i#CHao H
WWE6-i
WMEflE
KMoqcE
GX>.
ame asMosj n isMjer/e TettAj Ej/deMV/ol n u 9e3M,sMl uIII UL

---------------------------------------------------

BACHELOR OF HUMANITIES AND ARTS 
FALL 1998 DEAN'S LIST
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences and the College of Fine Arts congratulate our students for 
their outstanding academic performances during the Fall 1998
semester.
rgytfir
Kelly Bowles 
Yuki Kim 
Maureen McGranaghan 
Elizabeth Paddock 
Jessica Phillips-Silver 
Elana Solarz
Jytfir
Samina Akbari 
Megan Franke 
Danielle Pieratti
rfPsfXfigr
Joshua Anderson 
Michael Beuselinck 
Melissa Collinsworth 
Emily Crement 
David Johnson 
Ellen Johnston 
Maria Meza 
Angela Modzelewski 
Jennifer Petrini 
Margaret Wardle 
Sara Wilson 
Gabriella Zappia
ligrsXgy
Kelly Culbertson 
Annika Fasnacht 
Jacob Feige 
Marisa Manheim 
Melanie Morgan
I'"' ....." j
mhr.. a  
ftfii-i i 
HUMANITIES
------------------ and---------------------
SOCIAL SCIENCES 
n Carnegie Mellon sa
AnriEifiraN im&ss s1e*ms9 & 
TU SEMMES WITO TOILE 
MM UN H&SSs
Imagine that someone offered you $10,000 and 
from six months to a year to study something that 
has interested you for a long time, that excites 
you a lot, and that would require travel abroad in 
one or more cultures different from your own. 
Would that interest you, and what would you do?
An
@W-I
can make this possible for you.
b.S y&mm Aocmhs macRy/btkSo FSoonwl.sp lSSkl an ShtboS t btu.Son'l uthRs
RtaS nf chclcto pnmslS an ShitiS sh t ySt nf shRSpShRSha lacRy thR atkSo tbntR fno
onwshi itRctasnhE OhS FSoonw wsoo bS lSoSuaSR a.sl ySt, thR wsoo SuSskS t itha nf 
$10,000 fn atkSo thR lacRy tbntR Rcshi t pSsnR nf lsx mnha.l an t ySt fnoonwshi 
a.Ss unooSiS itRctasnhE b.sl fSoonwl.sp mty bS clSR an lcppoSmSha na.S fchRshi 
lncuSlE
EosisboS lacRShal shuocRS y&mm lShsnl, thR hnh-FA&mm lShsnl wsa. th FA&mm RncboS 
mtjnE Apposutasnhl RcS: FSbcty 26, 1999E ethRsRtaS shaSksSwl: Stoy ptu., 
1999E FSoonw lSoSuaSR: msR-ptu., 1999E
Additional information (including application materials): 
Available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161. 
Contact person: Dr. Joseph E. Devine, Associate Dean of H&SS.
TE6630 TcMkE00mM6ar ,a0tEc30 TcMFcae0
No longer does a Bachelor of Science guarantee obtaining the best jobs in 
this ever-changing universe of technology. So prepare yourself now in a Penn 
Professional Master's Program for a future without limits.
-/AOeP/0st Cjr/jeeM/jr???from designing products to managing projects 
'l6'?VesV?,Kejj?eP,2KMA6KMAr23/Aejr
-/Aoe0mjAtArl ! -/A/j6AMOso/0V?..for pharmaceutical-related industries 
'''?,Kejj?eP,23/Aoe0m
aete0AOO,j/0so/AjV ! Weo'AM./jr?..Internet applications, systems 
integration and consulting '''?VesV?,Kejj?eP,2KMA6KMAr2o0AO
Cte0oM/0st Cjr/jeeM/jr???combining a paid, industrial externship 
with challenging academic work '''?VesV?,Kejj?eP,2KMA6KMAr2ete0
ccaCTc Cjr/jeeM/jr?..providing interdisciplinary skills needed 
to work with today's complex systems 
'''?VesV?,Kejj?eP,2VlV2rMsPKMAV?moOt?
For moie information and to register for an open house, 0stt oAtth6MeeSh)$$hHcx NCWW? Visit the web sites for information and to apply online.

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
a
Neil Babra/Taitan Art taff
Directors look to CMU for film settings
By ROB CULLEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Wonder Boys is not the first movie to 
be filmed on our campus in recent years. 
Several other movies, including Night 
of the Living Dead, Creep Show, 
Lorenzos Oil, and Dogma all contain 
scenes that were filmed at CMU. And 
last semester, Inspector Gadget and 
The Temptations, a miniseries, were 
filmed at other Pittsburgh locations.
The most recent filming on campus 
was Dogma last spring. Dogma, which 
- has not been released yet, is the latest 
movie from Kevin Smith, the director of 
Clerks, Mallrats, and Chasing Amy. 
The movie focuses on two angels who 
have been cast out of heaven and at
tempt to make their way back home by 
by journeying to New Jersey to meet a 
priest who has set aside one day called 
the Great Forgiveness.
God has anotherangel, Meteron, who 
enlists a girl named Bethany. With 
help from Jay and Silent Bob, Bethany 
is supposed to stop the angels from 
reaching New Jersey. If they made it, 
it would paradoxically prove that God 
is wrong, and all life would unravel. 
The cast includes such names as Matt
Damon, Ben Affleck, George Carlin, 
Alan Rickman, Chris Rock, Janeane 
Garofalo, and Alanis Morrisette, as 
well as many other familiar faces from 
Kevin Smiths films.
On-campus shooting of Dogma took 
place in the SEI boardroom. They also 
filmed at other various locationsin the 
Pittsburgh area including a church on 
East Liberty St., a bus stop in 
McKeesport, New Kensington, and 
down around Pitt, even though the 
film was set in Chicago and other 
various towns between Chicago and 
New Jersey.
When they were not filming, various 
actors were seen popping up around 
Pittsburgh. Alan Rickman could be 
seen jogging on a regular basis. Jason 
Mewes (one half of the Jay and Silent 
Bob duo) was seen at Monroeville Mall, 
and Matt Damon and Ben Affleck be
came familiar faces at Laga.
One of the better movies to be filmed 
on campus, Lorenzos Oil, was filmed 
in 1992. Starring Nick Nolte and 
Susan Sarandon, it tells the story of 
two parents whose child develops se
vere behavioral problems when they 
return from working in the Comoro 
Islands. It is discovered that he has
ALD, which at the time 
was incurable. While 
the boy is slowly reduced 
to a bedridden state, un
able to speak, his par
ents desperately search 
for a cure.
The reason why Pitts
burgh and our campus 
have been the sites for 
numerous films is be
cause of the strong local 
Pittsburgh filmmaking 
institutions, which con
tinually produce talented 
crew members. Carnegie 
Mellons campus was 
most likely chosen for 
Wonder Boys because, 
unlike Duquesne Univer
sity or the University of 
Pittsburgh, the crews are 
able to move equipment 
in and out more effi
ciently. Due to the en
closed nature of the CMU 
campus, crew members 
are able to work with 
fewer distractions than 
they would experience at 
a more urban campus.
1330 rUA OCC1IUI lllgl II
5A3eMo gA'jel (M? VosMMeP /j uII)pV LlA fryon ejt  
fETg ze '/tt VosM /j ome ,K0AO/jr 6/tOk aAjtVy WATngNovel investigates Pittsburghs night life
By CLINTON FIELD
Tartan Staffwriter
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, city of 
mystery. City of character. City of lit
erary self-enlightenment.
While the average student 
at Carnegie Mellon might not 
describe Pittsburgh in quite 
these terms, Michael Chabon, 
University of Pittsburgh alum
nus, reveals another side ofthe 
city in his book Wonder Boys.
The story centers around 
Grady Tripp, a pot-smoking
 English professor who has 
allowed his life to fall apart.
Tripp has his own novel titled 
Wonder Boys, a massive, 
sprawling work without direc
tion or hope of ever being fin
ished. Tripps life changes 
when he meets James Lear, a 
dark, troubled student who 
is also working on a manu
script. The book describes their
adventures and misadventures 
through nighttime Pittsburgh as they 
search for literary redemption.
The book mirrors much of Chabons 
own life. After his first took, The Mys
teries of Pittsburgh, became a 
bestseller, critics praised the young 
Chabon, who was still a graduate studentin California. The character Grady 
Tripp is also a writing prodigy, but one 
who has grown to be bitter and selfish.
Tripp spends much of his time trying 
to escape from the shadow of his former 
potential by seducing his female stu
dents and getting stoned. While 
Chabon may not have fallen into such 
dissolution, he does know the symp
toms of the midnight disease that 
afflicts writers. Self-doubt and selfloathing, the disparity between the 
critics praise and expectations and 
the authors self-image all come to
gether to undermine a writer.
Chabon also knows about sprawl
ing, unfinished works. Before writing 
Wonder Boys , he had finished about 
800 pages of a novel titled Fountain 
City, a work that he finally abandoned. 
Again, this cannot compare to Tripps 
2,611-page monster, a product of five 
years of pot-fueled work.
The real focus of the book, however, 
is on the nightly travels of Tripp and 
Lear as they cruise through Pittsburgh 
in Tripps Ford Galaxie convertible. 
Pittsburgh may not be known for its 
night life, but the pair manages , to 
find humor and excitement anyway. For 
example, by the end of the book, Tripp 
has accumulated a dead dog, a dead 
snake, and a tuba in the trunk of 
his convertible.
The movie version from Paramount^ 
currently filming in Pittsburgh, pronLises to be interesting, to say the les 
Curtis Hanson, director of LA Confident 
tial, The River Wild, and The Hand Thai 
Rocks the Cradle, will be directing the 
film, and Michael Douglas, Robrt 
Downey Jr., and Frances McDormand 
will be starring.
The challenge for both Hanson and 
Steven Kloves, the screenwriter, willb 
to create a coherent film from a novel 
noted for its excellent use of metaphor 
and its lack of a single, driving plotC 
Please see NOVEL, page'LS
yAt,Oe I1k vVV,e uLame asMosjk isMjer/e TettAj Ej/deMV/olk N/ooV3,Mrmk NejjVltdsj/su 9e3M,sMl uIII
Stars among us?
Ethan Hawke, Holly Hunter, 
(your name goes here). Down 
in Baker Hall, extra
curricular activities await. 
Make some cash, 
maybe get famous.
By CLIFF CHIEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Two weeks ago, the Nancy Mosser Cast
ing Agency, which is in charge of hiring 
extras for Wonder Boys, walked around 
campus with prop designers to get a feel 
for what students on campus were wear
ing and what objects they tended to carry 
around. Workers on the film have been 
preppinginside and outside ofBaker Hall 
since last week in order to begin shooting 
this Tuesday.
CMU is a very creative place, and [the 
upcoming filming] is a great opportunity 
for students to see how a film is made and 
also have a chance to participate in its 
making, said Nancy Mosser.
A typical extras day consists of a 12 
14 hour work schedule in which he or she 
is paid at minimum wage, plus overtime 
after eight hours. Extras are also served 
a full-course lunch on their working 
days. The film producers contacted and 
interviewed Mosser in November of last 
year. In the following month, she started 
trying to get extras for the upcoming film. 
The advertising for finding extras is 
low-key, with a few flyers put up around 
campus, and occasional bboard postings 
on the CMU network.
To become an extra, just stop by the 
Nancy Mosser Casting Agencys down
town office. It takes ten minutes to sign 
up and to take a headshot. There is no fee 
to become an extra because the film 
company pays for everything. One can 
also send in a snapshot with pertinent 
information through the mail. Make sure 
to include basic information such as: 
name, age, address, height, weight, hair 
.and eye color, any acting, dancing, or 
musical skills, and what days you are free 
to shoot.
Hollywood invades Carnegie Mellon
ame aAjtVy WATn 0Me' 3ersj Veoo/jr ,K 
6AM VmAAo/jr tsVo YePjeVPsl?
The address is:
Nancy Mosser Casting Agency
239 Fourth Ave.
Suite 1217
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 434-1666
If you would like to stop by instead, the 
office is open Monday through Saturday 
from 10 am until 7 pm.
They are accepting extras until April, 
so there is still plenty of time if inter
ested. There are a few silent bit parts, but 
Mosser indicates that there might be a 
chance of people being upgraded 
to speaking parts. The producers of the 
film are looking for certain demograph
ics and ethnic groups to be represented in 
the film. They are especially in need 
of students of Asian descent. For more 
information on the Nancy Mosser Cast
ing Agency, the company website is at 
http://www.nmcasting.com.
University embraces movie producers
By KATIE KOWALL
Tartan Staffwriter
So you hear the rumor that a new 
movie by Paramount Pictures called 
Wonder Boys is going to be filmed right 
here on Carnegie Mellons campus in 
the next month. You rejoice in the fact 
that our campus, which the general 
public seems to be convinced consists of 
only two buildings off of Forbes, will 
now be seen in its entirety by the world.
You shiver at the thought of Michael 
Douglas, Frances McDormand, and 
Robert Downey Jr. actually walking 
through the same parts of campus that
you do on your way to class each day. 
Then you wake up out of your dream, 
and realize, hey, how is this thing 
going to affect me? While most stu
dents are excited about the filming on 
campus, they also hope that it will 
not interfere too much with their 
daily lives.
Carnegie Mellon is an old pro at this 
movie thing. Carnegie Mellon has been 
the site of many portions of movies in 
the past, including Creepshow, 
Flashdance, Lorenzos Oil, the yet-tobe-released Ben Affleck film Dogma, 
and many HBO and made-for-TVmov
ies. According to Don Hale, the vice
president for University Relations, 
Carnegie Mellon is looked at frequently 
by directors and producers as a pos
sible location for filming.
Carnegie Mellon works closely with 
the Pittsburgh Film Office in support 
of our regions interest in attracting 
film production to Pittsburgh, said 
Hale. Although the film will be an 
inconvenience, it seems that in the 
long run, the publicity that the univer
sity and the city will get outweighs the 
pesky drawbacks, he said.
Such pesky drawbacks will include 
the fact that filming will take place in 
Baker Hall and the College of Fine
Arts during the next few weeks, and! 
some classes will need to be relocated.! 
This is difficult because Paramount' 
changes what day they will be filming 
things based on how much they get done' 
in the days beforehand. Many classes! 
have been moved to the University Cen-! 
ter, and all classes that needed to be! 
relocated have found new homes.
One concern for students seems to be! 
parking. Parking Services said that the! 
filming of Wonder Boys will affect park-! 
ing on Frew Street because production 
trailers will be set up there off and on! 
throughout the filming. Starting FebPlease see WB, page L9
Neil Babra/Tartan Art Staff

---------------------------------------------------

ame asMosj n isMjer/e TettAj Ej/deMV/ol n u 9e3M,sMl uIII
Friendship keys CD
By KATIE KOWALL
Tartan Staffwriter
It has been a big week for those of us 
who currently hold residence in West
ern Pennsylvania and love The Dave 
Matthews Band. Last Tuesday, Dave 
; Matthews, lead singer of the band and 
obvious namesake, released a new acous; tic album with friend and guitar master 
Tim Reynolds. The album is titled Dave 
i Matthews and Tim Reynolds Live at 
Luther College, and the same day, the
 two performers began an acoustic tour 
' featuring small and mostly college town 
venues across the nation.
people, a far cry from the typical venues 
for Dave Matthews Band concerts which 
usually accommodate upwards of 15,000 
fans. From our seats, we could see Dave 
and Tims facial expressions and watch 
their guitar work. The set consisted of 
two tall chairs and an Oriental rug. The 
lighting was not flashy, and did not 
change once during the show. The mood 
was chatty and cozy.
The concert began with the song 
Granny, and then led into Crush, a 
song from Dave Matthews Bands new
est album, Before These Crowded Streets, 
that gets a great deal of airplay. One of 
the most memorable tunes was Dont
1999 BMG Entertainment
gsde Tsoome'V sjP a/O 5eljAtPV MetesVeP ome/M je' igk gsde Tsoome'V sjP a/O 
5eljAtPV U/de so U,omeM iAtterek; sjP 3ersj ome/M oA,M tsVo a,eVPslk (sj,sMl Jf?
i The new album, which is a double 
CD, features 23 songs by the duo. The 
tunes just about evenly represent all of 
Dave Matthews Bands older albums, 
with the most coming from Under 
The Table And Dreaming, the bands 
first studio album, which came out 
in 1994.
Four new tracks appear on the album. 
The Deed Is Done and Little Thing 
are new originals by Dave Matthews, 
while Stream is a solo instrumental 
piece by Tim Reynolds, and Granny is 
a Dave Matthews Band concert favorite 
which was recorded for the first time on 
this album. Highlights include chatty 
conversation by Dave Matthews, fre
quent shrieks from the audience, and 
some amazing guitar solos from 
Tim Reynolds.
In regards to the tour, true buffs were 
&ad to see that the closest the tour would 
jQome to Pittsburgh was Allegheny Col
lege, our neighbor to the north by about 
two hours. But even the long drive, tick
ets that were five dollars more expen
sive for us than they were for Allegheny 
students, and the prospect of having to 
watch the concert from our single seats 
strewn across the auditorium could not 
keep two friends and I from seeing Dave 
and Tim live. Last Sunday night, we 
.trekked up north, managed to find three 
jinoccupied seats together, and sat back 
,tp enjoy the concert. The Shafer Audito
rium is a venue that seats only 1,700
Drink The Water, another well-known 
tune from the latest album. What 
was amazing about Dave and Tims ren
dition of this song was that they per
formed the bulk of the tune without 
Dave ever singing the title words. 
Only at the very end did they break into 
the chorus.
Tim Reynolds did not add to the con
versation at all, but he did add to the 
music. Although both played acoustic 
guitars the whole time, Tim had a sev
eral different distortion devices attached 
to the pick-up that allowed him to use 
some pretty wild effects. Tim Reynolds 
played two songs alone, which demon
strated his amazing musical ability, but 
the audience talked and moved around 
during both of them. Tim Reynolds did 
not get the respect that he deserved 
from the audience which seemed more 
concerned with Dave Matthews and 
the bands music made popular on com
mercial radio than with Tim Reynolds 
and his groups lesser known music. 
But for devout fans, the concert was an 
amazing chance to discover the true 
beauty of the bands music in a small, 
informal setting.
So although Pittsburghers were 
slighted on this tour, they can still bask 
in the glory of Dave and Tims music via 
their new album. Either way, their mu
sical abilities are worth the 20 bucks 
or the 90 miles that it takes to 
enjoy them.
Heinz Hall features violinist
By ELAINE BOLAND
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orches
tra gave a stunning performance on 
Saturday night at Heinz Hall. While 
the orchestra played with tight preci
sion and fluidity, the highlight of the 
evening was the violinist Midori.
Known in Europe, North America, 
and the Far East for her musical tal
ents, Midori amazed the audience 
with a breathtaking performance of 
Dvoraks Concerto in A Minor for Vio
lin and Orchestra. With the first stroke 
of her bow, the violin seemed to cry 
above soft undertones of the clarinet 
and strings. She played with seamless 
fluidity, and the notes seemed to 
pour out of the instrument like water.
In the second movement, the Adagio 
ma non troppo, the flute beautifully 
complemented the virtuoso violin in a 
soft, flowing entrance. The French 
horns also displayed excellent facility 
near the end of the slow movement, 
while a strong, pulsated trumpet in
terlude provided a contrast to the soft 
violin finish.
In the final movement, the orches
tra produced an exquisitely full sound 
as it tackled difficult syncopation. Pe
riods of a strong, full orchestra sound 
echoing the soft violin melody high
lighted the movement. The fervent 
violin over the calm orchestra culmi
nated in a proud finish, well deserving 
of its standing ovation.
While Midori was the highlight of 
the performance, the pieces, Rouses 
The Infernal Machine and Berliozs 
Symphonie Fantastique, performed 
without her were beautiful works in 
their own right. The night opened with 
the modern orchestration of The Infer
nal Machine.
The piece began with hectic synco
pation, with the horns providing its 
strong focus. Through brilliant usage 
of dynamic and frequent surprise en
trances in almost every instrument, 
the piece came across as something
like a warped Nut
cracker. Pulsating 
undertones in the 
violins, mixed with 
strong bass lines 
and huge percus
sion, built up to a 
sudden mayhem of 
sound. The piece, 
which was without 
a doubt extremely 
difficult with its fre
quent syncopated 
rhythms and risky 
dissonance, finished 
with a huge sound 
coming from every 
instrument in the 
orchestra.
The Symphonie 
Fantastique, which 
culminated the sec
ond half of the pro
gram, was stunning 
in its breadth of 
sound from soft 
woodwinds to pow
erful horns. The 
symphony was in 
fact written for a 
woman named 
Harriet Smithson, 
for whom the 
composer had devel
oped an all-consuming obsession.
The symphony beautifully tells the 
tale of a young, lovesick musician who 
poisons himself with opium too weak to 
kill him, but strong enough to force him 
into a deep sleep filled with fanciful 
images and memories of his beloved.
The piece allowed the orchestra a wide 
range of musical outlets with periods of 
fervent chromatic passages followed by 
sudden silences. The harp entrance in 
the second movement gave way to a 
gorgeous waltz, which highlighted fluid 
retardandos and facile horns. The 
third movement brought a sorrowful 
English horn and oboe duo over hushed 
strings, then slowly crescendoing to a 
dynamic full sound.
Mohd Zerri Ismail/Tartan Art Staff
Repetitive percussion in the fourth 
movement gave the feeling of a proces
sion, with proud horns and trumpets 
contributing to the celebratory mood.
The piece finished with playful clari
net passages and the distinctive sound 
of bent notes in the woodwinds. The 
sound of church bells coupled with the! 
strong bass added an eerie feel to the 
movement. The piece concluded with an 
enormous burst of sound which filled 
every seat.
After Saturday nights performance 
at Heinz Hall, it is no wonder that; 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra! 
ranks among the top ten orchestras in 
the nation. The standing ovations speak' 
for themselves.
Novel examines relationship 
between students, professors
NOVEL, from page L7
Major Hollywood releases have tradi
tionally avoided such literary devices 
and have preferred straightforward, 
perhaps even formulaic stories. 
Considering Hansons directorial cred
its, however, Wonder Boys has the 
potential to be an excellent film. If 
the humor of the nighttime adven
tures can be brought out and woven 
into a well-considered thread, without 
losing the wit of the book, it 
should work.
Hanson also has the city of Pittsburgh to work with. The climate, land
scape, and people of Pittsburgh will be 
able to create a unique atmosphere. 
What better place to set dissolution, 
disillusion, and depression than in a 
decayed city with a steel-gray sky? Pitts
burgh has a distinct character, a mix 
between the East Coast, the Midwest, 
and the industrial cities of the north. 
Tripps character will have to be con
vincing for the movie to capture the 
essence of the book.
Of course, there is also the 
possibility of failure. Novels,
especially expository works, have 
been notoriously difficult to transfer 
onto film, just as a visually subtle 
film cannot always warrant a satisfac
tory novel.
After the financial and critical 
success of the book,Wonder Boys, 
Hanson and his cast will have a diffi
cult time fully satisfying Chabon . 
fans. But nevertheless, Hansons abil
ity to make intelligent filmmaking the : 
combined talent of his cast give the ! 
film the potential to match the success 1 
of the novel.
HUMANIT I E 8and-----------
SOCIAL aCHSNCES
Cumcgiu Mellon n
FALL 1998 DEANS LIST
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences congratulate the following students for their 
outstanding academic performances during the Fall 1998 semester.
SeniorsNicole McNeil*
Kathryn AllenNicholas Milasich
Jason Altman*Scott Mills
Teni ApelianMatthew Mutchler
Arthur Ardolino*Alexander Nagumey*
Yacov Arnopolin*Benjamin Northrop 
Tracy Odell*Michele Banko*
Evan Benoit*Joanne Pons
Brendan Bosworth*Nancy Ramsey 
Roland Reagan*Andrea Bttcher*
Scott BrickerJoel Santodomingo
Michelle Brown*Christopher Schmitt
Craig Brozinsky*Debra SchwartzEdward BruceSheng Sheen
Sarah Campen*Amy SheganAlfonso CardenasJung Shim
.Sabino Celaya-BarturenEmily Spencer 
Patrick StuartFiona Chamey
Joseph Chellman* 
Emily Chiodo
Michael Subelsky
Audwin Tang*
Chadd Cjccarelli*Amanda Tishkoff
Jonathan ColemanKarin Tuxen
Becky Cowser*Sharmila Venkatasubban
Teresa DietrichJeffrey Vitek*
Jessica DigrandiRobert Vitek*
Lisa Don*Mary Wall
Joshua DonnerHelen Wang
David Elman*Holly Weiss*
Jonathan FantazierNathalie Westervelt*Allyson FentonKristen Williams
Michael Fisher*Ashley Wilson
Greg Friedman*Julie Wilson*
Lauren Garcia*Nam Jae Yoon
Anne Garibaldi?Thomas Zahn
Daniel Greene* 
Eric Greenstein*
Denis Ziegler
Brian GustafsonJuniors
Janel Hanmer*Candice Amich
Donald Hoag*Nadia-Shazrin Asari*
David Howes*Ava Bai
Stacey JenkinsAmy Berger*
Maria Johnson*Natalia Beylis 
Lisa Bigelow*Andrew Jones
Melissa KaplanChristopher Bodmer
Nematullah Karimi*Daniel Commins*
Thaniyapom KccrccpartSusan CribbsHanjay KimKevin DailyAllison King*Dylan Das*
Lisa Kleinman*Sarah Dunn*
Jodi Kurtz*Joshua Feira
Jack LamElizabeth Ferrick*
Alonzo LeeTimothy Fife
Jennifer Lewis*Elisabeth Finch
Samuel Listopad*Rebecca Fribush*Anthony MaSarah Gross*
.Ross MacWhinneyFcigc Grundman 
Erin Hahn*Brian Magcrko
Ruth Mantcll*Teia Harper*
Benjamin Kartzman 
Can Kaufman*
GcolT Kaufman* 
Rachel Knapp*
Serene Koh 
Deborah Kruglak 
Diana Laughlin 
Elizabeth Legowski 
Jessica Levine 
Kelly Lynema 
William Marantz 
Melissa McIntyre 
Benjamin Messing 
Michael Monsilovich 
Matthew Moore* 
Scott Palermo 
Brandon Paluzzi 
Cris Peterson 
Nestor Ramos*
Roger Reed 
Ryan Schilling 
Georgia Seeley 
Kelly Sheridan 
Thomas Sweterlitsch* 
Daniel Szakallas 
James Tan 
Ann Terceira 
Erin Tocknell*
Fiona Tranquada* 
Laura Valenzeno* 
Joseph Valeri*
Jean Veitel*
Erica Vogel 
Terry Watt*
Jennifer White 
Bing Xu 
James Yang*
Jessica Young
Sophomores 
Kimberly Algcri 
Ncema Avasnia* 
Shyam Ayengar* 
Kevin Black 
Julie Bogart*
David Buftcr* 
Katherine Calver* 
Naci Can*
Lindsey Clark*
Amy Cyphcrt*
Season Dietrich*
Can Ding*
Tara Dwivcdi*
Shawn Feldman 
Kate Figiel*
, Jessica Glassberg 
Aartlii Gopal 
John Hursh
Joshua Kimball* 
Anthony Ko*
Charles Lan*
Emily Landes*
John Lee 
Anne Leete 
Nadine Leman*
Ann Lin*
William Long 
Brendan Lund*
Rebecca Maatta*
Seth Mandel* 
Constantinos Marinakis* 
Kathryn Martinez* 
Joshua McConnell 
Robert Moss*
Edward Murphy* 
Thinzar'Nyun 
Russell OLare*
Ping Pan 
Benjamin Pillet*
Brittany Powell* 
Amanda Pyles* 
Christopher Raubacher 
David Rice*
Daniel Shapiro 
Jonathan Sung 
Jennifer Terry 
Bonnie Thurston* 
Tzuan-Ta Wang 
Heidi Watt*
Kristin Weinzierl*
Rachel Whipple 
Brian Yeung
Freshmen 
Mehreen Akhtar*
Vincent Amen 
Erin Andrew*
Rudy Ash*
Daniel Belov*
Keith Beverly*
Cooper Blake*
Elaine Boland*
Christina Chong 
Derek Cicerone*
Faith Cole 
Siobhan Cooney 
Robert Cullen 
Brooke Cutler 
Sarah Cypher*
Gregor)1 Dcnsmorc 
Melanie Eberhard 
Chloe Evans*
Michelle Fahey 
Clinton Field 
Andrea Georgiana 
Brett Gordon*
Adam Grccnbaum 
Peter Gwinn*
Jennifer Habos 
Marika Haritos*
Margo Hofmann 
Huntington Howe* 
Olivia Hsu 
Amber Jackson* 
Clairesse Jauregui* 
Raina Jones*
Paul Katz 
Mohan Khurana 
Christina Koshzow* 
Peter Kreiier*
Heather Krogh 
Ruth Lee 
Ernest Lessenger* 
Andrew Li 
Jonathan Li*
Vanessa Lobue 
Jason Marlor*
Laura Martin 
Alina Mason 
Melissa McMahon* 
Ada Montague 
Luc Monzies 
Laura Morris 
Daniel Naylor*
Polly Ng 
Christine Oh*
Lindsey Overby*
Lara Panis*
Jennifer Pellecchia* 
Stephanie Pflaunt 
Prynt Phanichphani 
Justin Richard 
Kyle Schrivcr 
Stacy Scrapchansky* 
Nicholas Scdlock*
Mark Shcahen 
Robert Sinkewicz*
Kim Smaczniak* 
Sabrina Small*
Jay Snyder 
Eric Story*
Melissa Stupka 
Hannah Sypher* 
Katherine Travnicek* 
Elisa Trucco*
Ron Urwongsc 
Nina Vcrma 
Anna Wei 
Eric Wolfson 
Matthew Wood 
Sunny Yang 
* Deans List with High 
Honors
British film plays out sister 
rivalry among musicians
By AHNYA CHANG
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
When movie awards season 
rolls around, there are always a 
few nominees that Ive never 
heard of. Most of the time, these 
respected, albeit little-known 
films and actors fall into a cat
egory that I call British Drama. 
Included in this group are films 
like Metroland, The Boxer, and 
Prince of Jutland, and while they 
are all excellent, they sometimes 
fail to find an American audience.
I hope that Hilary and Jackie 
escapes that fate. It is the true 
story of the relationship between 
famous British cellist Jacqueline 
du Pre (Golden Globe nominee 
Emily Watson) and her sister Hi
lary (Rachel Griffiths). The two 
girls are extraordinarily close, and 
find any excuse to stay together 
at all times. They are trained by 
their mother to become dedicated 
musicians, with Hilary on the 
flute and Jackie on the cello.
Their talent brings them even 
closer until Jackie starts to draw 
critical praise for her music, 
sparking unfamiliar competition 
between them. They remain best 
friends despite this, and as 
Jackies star continues to rise, 
Hilary is her greatest admirer,
until Jackie makes her concert 
debut and is sent to Europe to 
tour, forcing the sisters to be 
physically separated for the 
first time.
It is this separation and Jackies 
ensuing career that prompt the 
girls to contemplate the differ
ences between being ordinary 
and extraordinary. Hilary mar
ries, has children, and moves to 
the country, while Jackies fastpaced touring schedule and mu
sical genius leaves her struggling 
to find an identity outside of mu
sic. In her pursuit of proof that 
she is loved as a person, she emo
tionally turns her back on her 
cello and tries to find a normal 
life through Hilary. It is not until 
she is diagnosed with a debilitat
ing disease that Jackie realizes 
her love for the cello, but by that 
time her career is on the decline, 
as she is physically unable to 
play. How she comes to terms 
with this, and her relationship 
with her sister, is heart-wrench
ing and almost childlike in its 
raw emotion.
The actors in the film are excel
lent, both individually, and as an 
ensemble. Watson and Griffiths 
portray perfectly the complex 
personalitites of the du Pre 
sisters, and every level of their
relationship, their camaraderie, 
resentment, and devotion to each 
other is evident in the scenes inj 
which they are shown together. 
The direction is also success-^ 
ful. Documentaran Anand; 
Tucker creates some unforget-! 
table scenes, particularly when 
the girls are shown as children.' 
Tucker decided to tell the middle 
part of the films story (Jackies 
touring phase) twice, first from 
Hilarys point of view, and then 
from Jackies.
Surprisingly, this technique 
does not create any sort of repeti-; 
tion, even though some scenes 
and dialogue are shown in both; 
portions. This helps us to under-; 
stand how the solidity of the girls; 
childhood relationship and their; 
different lives as adults brings; 
them together in the end.
I recommend this film as it is! 
an emotional ride full of wonder-! 
fill themes, music, and images. 
Hilary and Jackie is well-paced 
and extremely enjoyable from be
ginning to end. Its particularly 
powerful for people with siblings, 
because the du Pre sisters con
nection is fairly universal when 
it comes to sibling relationships, 
and its somewhat inspiring and 
gratifying to see it played out on
screen so wonderfully.

---------------------------------------------------

ame asMosj n isMjer/e TettAj Ej/deMV/ol n u 9e3M,sMl uIIIUI
DH 2210
min II mere
movies you may have seen before..
EMILY LANDES
Thursday, February 4
Akira Kurosawa Festival
For the last 40 years, Akira Kurosawa has been 
recognized as one of Japans foremost directors and 
screenwriters. His films deal with themes like 
honor, death, and human weakness. The three 
movies selected for this festival are some of the 
most famous in Kurosawas collection. Yojinbo is 
the story of a samurai who goes to a town divided 
by feuding gangs. Everyone is miserable, except for 
the town coffin maker, who is raking in the dough. 
The samurai uses his wit and fighting skills to turn 
the gangs against each other. In The Seven Samu
rai , a film with a similar storyline, a small town is 
beleaguered by bandits who arrive periodically. 
The bandits steal their crops and kill anyone who 
gets in their way. That is, until the seven samurai 
arrive. Dreams is perhaps the most personal of the 
three because the film is based on some of 
Kurosawas actual dreams. It consists of eight 
separate stories, each of which deals in some way 
with mans relationship with nature.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Friday, February 5
Ronin
Why, oh why, does Robert DeNiro want to be an 
action hero? Cant he just keep playing a gangster 
like Joe Pesci? Hes just so good at it. Its not that 
hes bad in this movie; in fact thats why Im 
concerned. We may be losing him to the world of 
Schwarzenegger. DeNiro plays a mysterious spy 
who has allegiance to no one and can be hired by the 
highest bidder. This time, that bidder is a hot Irish 
babe Who wants DeNiro to steal back a metal case. 
As Hitchcock would say, the case is a McGuffin 
(something that serves to move the plot along but 
has no significance itself), so we never see whats in 
it. But we do believe that its valuable. DeNiro and 
his cohorts chase the case down all over Europe, 
getting shot up, changing allegiances, swearing a 
whole bunch and.... well, I guess its not so different 
from a mobster movie after all.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Saturday, February 6
Rush Hour
Anyone who has seen Friday has been waiting for 
Chris Tucker to get his big break. His mouth just 
never stopped moving (quite a feat when hes hold
ing four joints in it); it was funny. Stardom may not 
have arrived in the form of Luc Bessons sci-fi bore 
The Fifth Element, but it did come through in this . 
cop-buddy comedy co-starring Jackie Chan. The 
plot is incidental, and the movie is merely a vehicle 
for its two stars, but here it goes. Tucker is a 
detective trying to get into the FBI. He thinks that 
hes got a chance when they call him in after a 
Chinese diplomats daughter is stolen. But really, 
the FBI just wants him to look after Chan, the 
detective who comes from China to search for the 
missing girl. Both men realize what has happened, 
but are determined to join the FBI by finding the 
girl themselves.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Sunday, February 7
Black Belt Jones
There are so many hilarious things about this 
movie that I just dont know where to start. First of 
all, there are the cheesy sound effects that accom
pany every move that Black Belt makes. Then 
there are the generic Mafia types whose total 
knowledge of Italian are the words Mamma Mia! 
Not to mention the final fight scene ... in a car 
wash. The funniest thing about this movie? It 
wasnt supposed to be funny.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Critical CornerUse as frisbee
"V'ir Less than average 
lrinr Buy it used
c'/OOeMSurreal  Maverick
There are some albums that 
forcibly pull the listener into the 
music and merit repeat listenings. 
On the other hand, there are discs 
that keep listeners at bay with 
the musics sheer repugnancy.
Swimmers disc Surreal falls 
into neither category. This al
bum is part of a growing trend of 
aggressively mediocre music in 
alternative rock. It doesnt strive 
to be quality music, nor does it 
manage to qualify to be smashed 
into bits. Instead, it winds up
sounding like a pale imitation of 
perfectly good influences.
Lead singer and guitarist Anday 
McCarron has a voice reminiscent 
of Bob Dylan. However, while 
Dylans voice was suited for his 
lyrics and instrumentation, 
McCarrons vocals are whiny and 
insipid. The backingmusic matches 
the unadulterated boredom of the 
situation: anemic guitars, stale 
bass, and percussion that could be 
better done on a toy drum.
The songs themselves are just as 
inane. Imagine a mixture of the 
worst parts of Radiohead, Bob 
Dylan, Guided by Voices, and My 
Bloody Valentine, minus even the
smallest iota oftalent. Finding high 
points was such a difficult process 
that doing so was not worth the 
effort. The song Dirty Word man
ages to achieve the level of impo
tent and static rage about the pit
falls in modem love. Its So Per
fect attempts to be a song about 
coping with the realities of abuse, 
but instead it comes across merely 
as self-pitying and whining.
This album will most likely 
receive a decent amount of alter
native airplay, since this is part 
of the current trend. However, 
its banality destroys any creativ
ity it could have had, and its 
homogenous lack of depth and
inspiration is unsettling. Never
theless, the disc does have one 
good thing going for it: The al
bum actually has an end.
ROB JEFFERSON
Exhibits beds interrupt slumber
By RHYS CONLON
Tartan Acting Diversions Editor
After uncovering the bed-re
lated installations, paintings, and 
prints in the Pittsburgh Center 
for the Arts new exhibition, Em
bedded Metaphor, one is certain 
to experience greater discomfort 
than comfort. Forget the fluff.
Even though expected themes 
such as sleep, dreams, love, and 
birth are not absent from the pre
sentation, each piece also demon
strates a modern political, social, 
or personal issue.
The eclectic group of artists who 
have contributed to the show and 
the various ways in which they 
have chosen to use the bed suc
cessfully put cliches to sleep. The 
differing media and subject mat
ter in the exhibit also creates 
unique juxtapositions due to the 
fact that there are multiple beds 
in the majority of the rooms.
Each artist brings his or her 
personal attitudes and/or experi
ences into their pieces, and even 
though the works rarely contra
dict one another, the executions 
provide the viewer with a wide 
range of interpretations.
A worn-out metal gurney and 
1,400 nails constitute Bob 
Flanagan and Sheree Roses bed, 
Gurney of Nails. The sculp
ture, which was triggered by 
Flanagans time spent in the hos
pital, is able to express human 
suffering without the use of an 
actual figure; 1,400 three-inch 
nails have been pounded upright 
into the single bed, enabhng view
ers to envision themselves lying 
on the surface.
As a work, Gurney of Nails, 
takes craftsmanship well into 
account. The nails are equally 
spaced, and the stark shadows 
which they cast form oblique lines 
that reach from one side of the 
gurney to the other. Even though 
the concept is its strength, the 
diagonal lines and the blurry ef
fect that the group of nails has on 
the viewers eyes make Gurney 
of Nails, visually intriguing.
In the same room, Mel 
Chins Jilava Prison Bed 
lies on the floor. Forming the 
shape of a cross, the brownstained mattress has been 
punctured by five large steel 
pegs and clearly alludes to 
the crucifix. The headboard 
resembles prison bars. In 
addition to pain, the piece is 
able to evoke feelings of con
straint due to its form; the 
sleeper would have to lie per
fectly still just to remain on 
the bed.
However, Chin is not point
ing to his own experience. As 
an artist involved with Am
nesty International, he was 
assigned to create a work that 
had to do with a Roman 
Catholic priest who had been 
sent to prison as a result of his 
public criticism of atheists. It is 
not uncommon for Chin to focus 
on political and social issues. 
Rather than make sculptures for 
personal or aesthetic reasons, he 
is most content when his art sends 
a message to his viewers 
via symbolism.
A pair of artists who also make 
a clear statement, use a twin bed. 
Catherine Saalfield and Zoe 
Leonards piece, Keep Your Laws 
Off My Body, is a mixed-media 
installation featuring ordinary 
furniture. However, they used 
sheets to convey the titles 
message. Layered with black 
prints of Constitutional articles, 
the work is meant to argue 
against the Christian right.
Sevenyears have passed since 
we made Keep Your Laws Off My 
Body, and it has only gotten worse 
out there, in here, around the 
world, Saalfield wrote for the 
exhibits catalog. The Theocratic 
Right sharpened its claws for 
battle and then declared one loud 
and clear. We (almost all) find 
ourselves the brunt of their bru
tality. They freely display racial 
fears and sexual insecurities 
by picking on immigrants, lesbi
ans, gays, and bisexuals, people 
of color, artists, welfare recipiAnthony D'Auria/Tartan Photo Staff 
xeeK A,M Us'V &66 Tl -APl; /V Aje A6 ome 'AM.V /j ome N/ooV3,Mrm 
iejoeM 6AM ome HMopV je' eRm/3/o/Aj ejo/oteP Rh,VttVt pVseMmAyg
ents, single moms, single 
women, and every other kind of 
woman, workers and anyone 
whos not their kind of Chris
tian,  she wrote.
Another artist who examines 
societal problems in his embed
ded metaphor is Perry Bard, who 
uses photography as his medium. 
Eight color cibachrome prints of 
homeless beds from different 
intersections in New York City 
hang side by side in his piece, 
which consists of eight titles. 
Each photos title reflects the 
street comer where the card
board boxes or tattered mat
tresses were found.
Even though each photo alone 
is powerful, together they form a 
documentary sequence which 
depicts the lives of the homeless 
by merely showing the beds that 
they sleep in. In Shelter III Cen
tre Street, New York City, No
vember 1989, a stack of card
board boxes lies on top of a park 
bench. The street is dirty and the 
bed is separated from the inter
section by a high fence. No one is 
in sight, but one can imagine the 
discomfort that the occupant 
must feel when he sleeps.
lems relevant to their culture, 
some decided to use the bed as a 
metaphor for their positive expe
riences. Childhood dreams are 
one theme that can be seen in 
viewing Dale Kistemakers His 
Bedroom. The artist uses an en
tire room and has set up a model 
of his childhood bedroom.
Lauren Leskos Coifed is a 
convincing piece in which the 
bed, covered in Mongolian lamb
skin, represents the daydreamer. 
She places the bed on a red silken 
pillow in order to convey the feel
ing of flight that one experi
ences through daydreaming.
Embedded Metaphor's greatest 
strength is its ability to point 
out the associations one has with 
the bed and the contradictions 
that these associations often bring: 
The bed is the usual place for both 
birth and death. It is a place where 
we rest, but it is also where we fall 
ill, and even though it is where we 
dream, our darkest nightmares 
take place on our beds.
In reterospect, the vieweV 
wonders if similar them6te 
would be able to stem from 
another piece of furniture or 
from an object that we would
Despite the fact that many of not ordinarily use to portray 
the artists chose to depict either societys most serious social, cubhuman suffering or other prob- tural, and economic issues.
Campus welcomes film companies
WB, from page L7
ruary 1, alternative parking will 
be available in the Morewood 
parking lot. Visitor parking 
passes will be available for $5. 
The CFA parking lot will be 
closed during Spring Break. 
At that time, parking will be 
moved to the East Campus Park
ing Garage.
Parking Services recommends 
regulary checking their bboard 
emu.parking-services.announce 
as the filming proceeds to 
find any last-minute updates.
Hale said that the celebrities 
will be visible on campus at times, 
but that there is not a security 
concern. Campus Police will be 
on site at the filming locations to 
help out during shooting, he said. 
However, we have never had a 
security incident involving any 
of the actors in any of the previ
ous productions that have 
filmed here.
He also said that some changes 
would be made to some of the 
buildings for the filming.
For instance, a banner will be 
put up across Frew Street for one 
of the scenes, some changes will 
be made to the CFA lobby, and
scaffolding will be put up on th 
outside of Baker Hall in orde} 
take shots from outside the buildjing looking in.
He also mentioned that CMU 
students can apply for positions 
as extras. As the University pre'r 
pares to step into the limelight;, 
you can also prepare for yours.'
SPRINGBREAK
Party wilh the best!
Canun Mexico km $429
Montego Bay Jamaica from $429 
Megrii Jamaica from $4 99 
Panama City Bdi, FL from $119 
Daytona Bell, FI from $ 169
.STUDENT J TRAVEL -SERVICES
Call today! Space is limited 
1 800648-4849
www.itstravcl.com
^XPLQRE TH-E ICO -FINO EXCITEITIENT
OF CUA551CHL TBfllNING IN ACTING
TcMFcae gmFArmFAt0
 A faculty of some of Britain's most distinguished 
actors and directors
 Master Classes
 Private tutorials with faculty
 Weekly trips to London stage productions
 Participation in staged productions
 Choice of semester or full-year programs
L7Fd Sc scmmFwF 
!IpatWR AND SENIORS 
IN GOOD flCROEIYllC STANDING
SM6tait
Office of International Programs 
Sarah Lawrence College 
t Mead Way 
Bronxville, New York 10708-5999 
(800) 873-4752 
E-mail: slcaway@mail.slc.edu
'Mil)>.no ret
F* -R ? C3 JFK -FI lYl 
OF
LHUIRENCE COLLEGE 
 N ? TH-E 
SR1T15H fimERlCRN 
?Rfimn fiCHDErriY

---------------------------------------------------

Akira Kurosawa Festival
will be playing on 
Thursday at 7:30 pm, lO.pm, 
and 12:30 am in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Ronln
will be playing on Friday at 8,10 
pm, and midnight in McConomy 
Auditorium;--.
Rush Hour
will be playing on Saturday at 8, 
10 pm, and midnight In 
McConomy Auditorium. -
Black Belt Jones
will be playing on . 
Sunday at 
8,10 pm, and midojght in 
McConomy Auditorium.
O The Butcher Boy
A film by Neil Jordan is part of 
 Contemporary Irish films, which 
m wil be shown Thursday and Sat* 
-p urday at 8:00 pqi.atfRe 
Carnegie Museum offit.
Mi Haramuya
A film by Orissa Toiire is a 
series of films in celebration of 
Mi African Fest that will be shown 
gl on Friday at 8:00 pm and-Sunday. 3:00 pm at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art. ,
For up-to-date campus movie 
times, call X8-FLMS.
7h  vmiiv CALENDAR
9e3M,sMl ukuIII9e3M,sMl $kuIII
The Last Groundhog Day of the Century
Groundhog Day or Candlemas Day will be this Tuesday, February 
2. This old tradition started in the seventeenth century in some of 
the European countries and is still celebrated today. Groundhog 
Day goes back to Candlemas Day, which commemorated the 
purification of the Virgin Mary. On this day, candles for sacred 
uses were blessed. If Candlemas Day is sunny and fair, that 
means winter is going to stay for six more weeks. An old Scot
tish proverb says if Candlemas Day is bright, there will be two 
winters in the year. If the weather is bad, spring is soon to 
arrive. Groundhog Day is based on the same idea; if the 
groundhog comes out of his hole after winter hibernation and 
sees his shadow (sunny weather with no clouds) winter will be 
longer, but if he does not see his shadow (meaning bad cloudy 
day) spring is very close. Groundhog Day has been recorded 
since 1887. Since then there have been 89 shadows, 13 no shad
ows and 9 times with no record. Only 39 percent of time the pre
diction has been accurate. Ever since there was a movie made 
ibout the day, the number of visitors to the towns with ground
hogs have increased. For example in Punxsutawney, Penn, there 
were 35,000 visitors on that day five times the population of 
the town. This Tuesday will be the last Groundhog Day of the 
century. Will we have a long winter, or is spring imminent?
oncampus
The Third Annual Fitness Challenge 
started Thursday, January 28, and goes 
through March 14. The object of the chal
lenge is to encourage students, staff, and 
faculty to exercise at least 20 minutes 
four times per week for seven consecutive 
weeks. For more information and regis
tration, visit the UC equipment desk.
Things that make you go Hmmmmmm is one of a series of discussions for 
students called the Community Round
table. This weeks discussion will be 
with Kelly Lie and Roxanne Zeisloft, 
Monday, February 2, 5:30-7 pm at the 
UC Peter Wright Room.
Keepers of the Dream: A Celebration 
of Significant Sistahs is a high-energy, 
musical, emotional/ spiritual, and 
historical portrait of African-American 
womens journey from Africa to the 
Americas. It will be on Monday, February 
1, 7 pm, at McConomy Auditorium, UC.
French Table will be in Skibo this 
Wednesday from 11:45 am to 1 pm 
and The French Cultural Informant
will be from 5 to 6 pm. For more informa
tion email rockmore@andrew.cmu.edu.
President Cohon has student 
office hours Wednesday, February 3, from 
4:30-5:30. Students wishing to make an 
appointment to meet with the President 
should contact Michael Murphy Dean of 
Student Affairs at 268-2075 or at 
mmlv@andrew.
Beaux Aris Ball Meeting is a planning 
meeting to bring back the Beaux 
Arts Ball. The meeting will be held on 
Tuesday, February 2, 9:30 pm, in the 
Danforth Lounge.
talks/lectures
Randomized Polya trees: Bayesian 
Nonparametrics for Exploration of 
Multidimensional Structures by Susan 
Paddock (Duke University) will be held 
on February 2, from 4-5 pm, in Wean 
Hall 5403.
Already Homeward bound: The Lega
cy of World War II is a talk will be givn 
by Edmund P. Russell (University of Vir
ginia) on February 5, 3:30-5:30 pm in 
Baker Hall 254A.
Interpersonal Attention in Face-toFace Interaction will be given by Deb
orah Tatar of Stanford University, on 
February 3, at noon, Porter Hall 223.
Brett Cook Dizney, an artist, will be 
speaking about his work. The lecture is 
part of a School of Art/Carnegie Museum 
of Art Lecture Series. The lecture will be 
on Thursday, February 4, at 5 pm in the 
McConomy Auditorium, UC.
Graduate Bible study will meet 
February 4 at 4:30 pm in the Pake Room 
of the UC to study acts 4 and 5. If you 
have any questions call David Laughlin 
at 268-2706.
The Pittsburgh Veritas Forum will 
take place on February 5 and 6 at the 
University of Pittsburgh. The keynote 
speaker is Dr. Guiness For more infor
mation, please see http://www.pitt.edu/ 
~mdmst5 7/Veritas, html.
aroundtown
Roman Catholic Mass takes place on 
Sundays at 10:30 am and 8 pm in Mellon 
Auditorium, Posner Hall. It also takes 
place daily at 12:30 pm in the UC Chapel. 
For more information, contact the Ryan 
Catholic Newman Center at 681-3181.
Pittsburgh Compline Choir Series, 
will be held at Heinz Chapel this Sunday 
evening, February 7, at 8:30 pm at 
Lutheran Campus Ministry, and this 
Sunday night with Dr. Ann Labounsky. 
For more information call 682-6886.
King O' The Moon  Over the Tavern 
Part II, sequel to the popular Over the 
Tavern, is being performed at the Pitts
burgh Public Theater through February 
7. Shows being performed between Tues
day and Saturday begin at 8 pm and Sun
day performances start at 7 pm. There 
will also be Sunday matinees at 2 pm 
along with two Saturday matinees on 
February 6. Tickets range from $15 to 
$38, or $10 for students with ID. For 
more information, call 321-9800.
The 1999 Orchid Exhibit: Orchids 
Through The Ages is now on display at 
Phipps Conservatory through March 7. 
The exhibit focuses on the growth and 
interest in orchids, progression of orchids, 
ways of judging, orchid hunters, and the 
origins of orchids. The gardens are open 
Tuesday through Sunday from 9 am to 5 
pm. Admission is $3.50 for students 
with ID and $5 for adults. For more infor
mation, call 622-6914.
Vanilla Festival and Dessert Recipe 
Contest. As part of the ongoing 
Orchid Exhibit, Phipps Conservatory pre
sents this festival on Saturday and Sun
day to showcase vanilla, which comes 
from orchids, in taste-testing 
displays and childrens activities. Tickets 
are $3.50 for students with ID and $5 oth
erwise. The recipe contest is on Sunday 
only. For more information, call 622-6914.
The Gertrude Gordon Writing Contest
will be held on Friday 1:00 pm, at J.V. 
Hopkins Auditorium, Point Park College. 
The contest is open to full-time college 
sophmores, juniors, and seniors.
museums
Andy WarhoVs TV. will be shown at the 
Andy Warhol Museum. Manhattan Cable 
(Episodes 7 and 8) and Madison Square 
Garden Network (Episodes 7, 8, and 9) 
will be shown from Wednesday, January 
27 through Sunday, January 31. For 
additional information and show times, 
call 237-8300 or visit their Web page at. 
http://www. warhol. org/warhol.
Brew House Artist Show is the current 
exhbition at the Brew House Space 101. 
The show features the work of current 
Brew House residents and members. For 
more information, call Hannah Niswonger at 381-7767 or visit their Web 
at http://www.brewhouse.org.
Making and Unmaking, the current 
exhibit at the Hewlett Gallery, features 
an installation by Margaret Wagner. The 
reception will be on February 4, 5-7 pm 
and the show will continue to February 
26. For more information, contact Robert 
Capaldi at x8-3877.
voxpopuli
Tony the Asian Quaker 
Natalia Imbruglia?
Crank the volume?
Wheres the 3rd street?
And why am 1 the designated 
driver?
aAosttl g,Pe?
Pookie!
Han wilt have those 
pants down. We have to 
give him more time!
Happy Birthday 
Glu Glee!
You can do itno more tnuggle muffins for you !
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus com
munity! To submit a vox, simply email'it to 
tartan@andmcmu.edu, send it to The Tartan, Box 17 
via campus mail, or drop it in the Vox Populi drop box on 
the ultraiuick Tartan Server.
Mr. Vbx P had a very tough week. There were emails 
sent to him which contained a stinkin socks. But then 
end of the week arrives and he checks his mail and finds 
a letter from one of his fans. He opens, reads, and 
smiles. He is in a much better mood now, thanks to his 
loyal fan. Fans can be FANATIC, though!
you can' move forward 
when your chicken's stapled 
to your donkey
www.whitehouse.com/no_feet
Don't look at 
me... Look 
over there. 
b.Beware
the
chicken
Nermal is a girl.
Its the Asian Shaker, you bitch.Onpl! A utppSR my pthal!
Nermal is for sure a guy.
Happy Happy Ena! 
Love, us.
You Can Do it!!!
Spring Musical Production: A Day in 
Hollywood, A Night in the Ukraine, 
will hold concerts from February 4-7 at 8 
pm in the Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets 
are $10. For more information and reser
vations call 268-2383.
GBH will be playing with Against all 
Authority and Billyclub on Tuesday, Feb
ruary 2, at Club Laga. The tickets are 
$12 and the show is open to all ages. !
Music on the Edge presents major new 
works by LeBaron, Moe, and Rosenblum. 
Music on the Edge is part of a series of 
performances at the University of Pitts
burgh devoted to new music. It will be 
this Tuesday, February 2, at 8:00 pm, in 
Bellefield Hall Auditorium. Tickets are 
$8 general and $5 students/seniors. For 
more information call 624-4125.
