Volume 85, Issue 2THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaIO September 1990
The Tartan moves 
to Monday
Starting with this issue, The Tartan will be available for you to read in class one day earlier. We've moved to Monday to provide more up- to-date coverage. Be sure to check our Sports section for the weekends scores from around the country.
Soccer christens Gesling with win
By JASON McDONALDTartan Assistant Sports Editor
Amidst the flood of hype for the 
upcoming football season, the 
Carnegie Mellon soccer team 
quietly became the first team to 
win a game at Gesling Stadium.
The Tartans opened their sea
son Wednesday by stomping
Hiram, 3-0. The victory served as 
a good first test for a young Tar
tan team with a newfound depth 
problem.
The Tartans depth will be 
tested this season by the loss of 
sophomore sweeper John Stivoric. 
Late in the pre-season, Stivoric 
suffered a broken bone in his right 
foot and will be gone for the vear.
Losing John is really bad luck 
for us, said coach Nick Gaudioso. 
John was on of the best sweepers 
in Division III. Theres no telling 
how good he could have been. 
Junior midfielder Alan Horn will 
play Stivorics role for the time 
being, but Gaudioso is concerned 
about his teams depth. Alan is a 
verv eood player, and he can fill
Johns role well, but then were 
losing a player from our offense. 
Gaudioso has less cause to be 
concerned after the Tartans win 
over Hiram. Although The Tar
tans dominated the game, they 
were assisted by luck early on. A 
Terrier defender headed the ball 
into his own net less than two 
minutes into the contest to give
the Tartans the lead.
There was no lwk involved with , 
the second goal, though. Sopho
more Terence Sibiya took a pass 
from senior Chris Kasabach, blew 
down the right side past the Hiram 
defense, and blasted the ball into 
the net to raise the Tartan lead to 
2-0. Sibiya was just one of the 
Please see SOCCER, page 12
DS shuts down 
IPH 217 cluster
By RACHEL HAASTartan Staffwriter
Citing rising costs, the administration 
Ihas decided to close the Porter Hall 217 
computer cluster, a move which has caused 
Isome concern among Information Decision 
Systems students, the main users of the 
(cluster.
"The decision was a shock to everybody. 
|It was a decision that could potentially 
I damage the [IDS] program," said summer 
cluster manager and senior IDS major 
I Susan Keim.
A major concern among IDS majors is 
V that the relocation of the PH 217 machines 
I to different clusters with different hours 
I will alter or decrease accessibility to the 
computers. The computers which were in 
PH 217 are equipped with Excelerator, a 
J special kind'of software used mainly by 
flDS majors.
"It was easy for IS students to go in and 
[ get help there," said Keim.
According to Gary Aulfinger, cluster 
I services.manager at Academic Computing 
( and Instructional Technology, however, I IDS majors will have the same reservation 
[ priority over the computers in other clusters as they did in PH 217.
We have gone to considerable lengths to 
keep the equipment and services from PH 
217 available, Aulfinger said.
Many students also protest that Academic 
Computing generated usage statistics of 
the Porter Hall cluster in July, when usage 
is at its lowest. Since no Information Sys
tems classes are offered in the summer, 
relatively few IS majors are on campus to 
utilize the facilities.
"When they made the decision to close it, 
it was without the input of the students 
who use it," said Keim.
Aulfinger does not feel that this is a valid 
protest, however.
We compared summer statistics against 
summer statistics  its all relative, he 
said. We also compared spring against 
spring and found the same patterns. The 
numbers I posted to the [academic.sds] 
bboard over the summer were simply the 
most recent information.
"As a student, I was upset that it was 
closed," said TA Nina Pinto. "I'd like to see 
it back open, especially since I'm a TAJ 
know a lot of the IS students needed that 
cluster pretty badly."
Please see CLUSTER, page 5
CMU drops in rating
By MICHAEL J. EWEDOSH
| Tai'tan Asst. Business Manager
The loss of a plus sign in Carnegie 
; Mellons listing in Barrons Profiles of 
; American Colleges is probably due to an 
increase in the percentage of applicants for 
admission accepted by the University, ac
cording to Director of Admissions Michael 
Steidel.
While Carnegie Mellon remains catego
rized in the Highly Competitive grouping, 
the plus distinction no longer accompa
nies its listing. According to Barrons, the 
plus is designed to provide finer distinc
tions within [the Highly Selective] admis
sions category.
Barrons identifies those schools receiv
ing a plus as colleges with median firstyear student scores of 615 or greater on the 
Scholastic Aptitude Test or scores of 27 or 
greater on the American College Test (de
pending on which test the college prefers), 
and colleges accepting less than 25 percent 
of their applicants.
Steidel says that, although he was not 
familiar with the change or with the guide, 
since median test scores had not changed 
for first year students, he suspected that a 
decrease in the number of applications  
which results in the University actually 
accepting a higher percentage of applicants 
is responsible for the university's change 
in standing.
Neighbor plans restructuring for Student Senate
By DAVID LADEKTartan Staffwriter
Junior math major Michael Gelman 
had a simple reason for running for 
Student Senate.
There was no one else running, he 
explained in reply to a question from 
Senate Chair Chris Neighbor.
Apathy from Gelman  and others 
like him  may have been the impetus 
behind Neighbors call for a full-scale
reorganization of Student Senate.
I want to make us a more effective 
group, said Neighbor. Right now, we 
are a forum for discussion. The Senate 
should also be a tool to get things done. 
Student Government President 
Kishore Rao agreed that Senate has lost 
most of its power for action.
It is a large, unwieldy, structured 
body, he said at last Tuesdays meeting. 
There is no sense of ownership or re
sponsibility from individual Senators. 
To help change this, I would call for
eliminating the secret ballot vote and 
making all votes roll call votes.
Neighbors plans for Senate include 
relegating more work to committees and 
placing a heavier burden on the shoulders 
of committee chairs. He also plans to 
meet with student organization leaders 
to find out what they want from Senate.
Recently, many. Senators and con
stituents alike have felt that the Senates 
function has become merely to distribute 
the Activities Fee. Senators, however, 
disagree as to whether or not this function is a proper one.
Senate would function best as a purely 
financial body, but at the same time, I 
dont think we should do that, said H&SS 
Senator Matt Ruben.
MCS Senator Seth Kadesh was not 
happy with the way Senate has handled 
the Activities Fee.
Currently, our fiscal responsibility is 
pretty bad, he said.
Senate as a financial body is really 
bad, agreed MCS Senator Rick 
Golembiewski. Having Senate as a
funding body is about the worst thing 
you could do.
Golembiewski criticized the budget 
procedure, suggesting that organizations 
who come before Senate for funding 
should deal with just one person, not a 
committee. He also said that there should 
be some miscellaneous category for 
organizations to budget funds for 
unforseen expenses.
Were not dealing with money in a 
way to promote activities, said CIT 
Please see SENATE, page 3
Are our parents losing touch 
with us because of the genera
tion gap?
See page 7.
The Carnegie Mellon football 
team starts its season with a 
35-21 win over Washington 
University.Inside See page 12.
Classifieds...........13 What can a person do at 3:00
Comics..............L6 in the morning?
Diversions............L9 See page LI.
Features..............LI
Forum................6  Computers and art meet face
Sports...............10 to face at Forbes Gallery.
University Calendar.....14 See page L9.
Vox Populi............14
Dan Holland/Tartan Staffwriter
The closing of the Homestead 
Mill affects several Carnegie 
Mellon professors. See the story 
on page L2.
Sniper standoff ends in death
By MICHAEL J. EWEDOSHTartan Asst. Business Manager
& RANDY L. UDAVCAKTartan Senior Staffwriter
After holding police at bay for 
five hours from the rooftop of a 
nearby retirement home last 
Friday, an Oakland man ended 
his life by pulling the trigger of a 
.25 caliber handgun pointed at 
his right temple. The man fell 
sixteen stories, leaving a team of 
police negotiators only ten feet 
from where he fired the shot.
Thirty-year-old Paul A. Fisher 
climbed to the top of Moorhead
County officials remove the sniper's 
body from the scene of the standoff.
Towers, 257 North Craig Street, 
and began firing randomly from 
his .22 caliber semi-automatic
rifle. Fisher fired one shot in the 
direction of an unmarked police 
car. No one was injured by the 
shots.
Pittsburgh Police immediately 
cordoned off streets in a five-block h 
radius from the building, result
ing in traffic snarls throughout 
Oakland.
An hour before Fisher fired the 
fatal shot, a police negotiating 
team including Pittsburgh Police 
Chief Mayer DeRoy, Sergeant 
Dan Quinlan of the citys sexual 
assault squad, narcotics Detective 
Vic Joseph, and Lieutenant WilPlease see SNIPER, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

olum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyi
THIS JUST IN
Paratrooper 
acquitted in 
Panamanian 
death
FORT BRAGG, N.C. (DJ)  A 
military jury acquitted a veteran 
paratrooper on charges that he 
unnecessarily lulled a Panama
nian during the 1989 invasion of 
the country.
The jurors deliberated nearly 
two hours before returning and 
clearing Master Sgt. Roberto 
Bryan. The verdict was greeted 
by- applause from other soldiers 
nrthe courtroom.
Bryan sighed with relief. He 
had no immediate comment, but 
a riews conference was scheduled 
for^ after the courtroom proceed
ings ended.
Souter gets 
boost
The American Bar Associations 
judicial selection panel rated 
David Souter, the Supreme Court 
nominee, well qualified, the le
gal organizations highest en
dorsement.
The ABAs Standing Commit
tee on the Federal Judiciary voted 
unanimously for the certification. 
Souter was nominated by Presi
dent Bush in July to fill the va
cancy created by the retirement 
of Justice William Brennan.
Souter received a similar wellqualified rating from the ABA 
earlier this year when he was 
nominated for a seat on the First 
U*S. Circuit Court of Appeals in 
Boston.
The senate is scheduled to be
gin hearings on Souters nomina
tion September 13.
Iraqi ship stopped 
in Persian Gulf
MANAMA (AP)A U.S. Navy and Coast Guard team left the 
Iraq-bound freighter Zanoobia after a 30-hour search of the ship 
and ordered it to turn back, a U.S. Navy spokesman reported.
The Iraqi-flagged Zanoobia was intercepted by a U.S. Navy 
warship early last Tuesday as part of the U.S.-led naval quaran
tine of Iraq to enforce United Nations sanctions in retaliation for 
its invasion of Kuwait August 2.
The freighter was boarded by the U.S. sailors in the Gulf of 
Oman as it was approaching the Strait of Hormuz, gateway to the 
Persian Gulf.
The 3,549-ton vessel was carrying a cargo of tea for Iraq that 
had been loaded at Colombo, Sri Lanka.
The captain refused to change course or return to its port of 
departure when the Zanoobia was intercepted.
The sailors left the freighter around 5 a.m. EDT Wednesday 
after the vessel received directions to proceed to a non-prohibited port in accordance with U.N. Security Council resolution 
661, the U.S. spokesman said.
The Zanoobia steamed off into international waters in the Gulf 
of Oman, with the Navy still monitoring its movements, the 
spokesman. He insisted he could not be named.
Shipping sources, also speaking on condition of anonymity, 
said the vessel headed for the Yemeni port of Aden after the Navy 
released it.
He confirmed reports that the Navy was also monitoring the 
movement of two Iraqi tankers off the Arabian Peninsula. But he 
did not give the location or name the vessels.
Congressional deficit talks 
hopeful for budget cuts
Egypt gets international help
PARIS (DJ) -t The U.S. is ur
gently seeking international sup
port in gathering more than $25 
billion to help Mideast states hurt 
by the Gulf crisis and to assist in 
funding the U.S.-led military ef
fort against Iraq, a senior admin
istration official suggested.
White House spokesman 
Fitzwater said President Bush 
had initiated a debt forgiveness 
proposal, and that it had not been 
requested by Egypt.
The impact on the U.S. federal 
budget deficit this year would be 
$750 million, as that is the amount
Egypt owes the U.S. this year, 
Fitzwater said.
He also said that the debt plan 
for Egypt would not set a prece
dent for other nations. Egypt is a 
special situation, he said.
Bush has proposed multina
tional help for Jordan, Turkey, 
and Egypt. Baker and Brady are 
holding discussions with other 
nations to provide economic aid 
from wealthier countries.
Fitzwater said the U.N. sanc
tions against Iraq are quite ef
fective, and said there is no 
reason to change them.
WASHINGTON (uJ)  White 
House spokesman Marlin 
Fitzwater said that despite the 
Persian Gulf crisis and a possible 
downturn in the economy, the 
Bush Administration still seeks 
to cut the federal budget deficit 
by $50 billion in fiscal 1991.
It is crucial to maintaining 
economic growth, Fitzwater said. 
And we are going to continue 
with this progress and dealing 
with this problem.
Fitzwater said that the longerterm goal of slashing $500 billion 
from the budget deficit over the 
next five years is also unchanged, 
despite suggestions by some law
makers that the targets be 
modified or extended to ease 
strain on the economy from higher 
oil prices.
At a White House briefing, 
Fitzwater said negotiations with 
Congress have been scheduled to 
begin Friday at a secluded loca
tion at Andrews Air Force Base. 
The date has been moved back a 
day since the talks were first 
announced last month.
Budget Director Richard 
Darman and House Majority 
Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., 
will meet with their respective 
delegations all day Friday and 
work through the night to Satur
day and possibly Sunday to
We are going to continue with this 
progress and dealing with this prob
lem
P Marlin Fitzwater
achieve a framework for a deal, 
the spokesman said. At that time, 
Bush will be meeting with Soviet 
leader Mikhail Gorbachev in 
Helsinki on the Middle East.
Fitzwater said that Bush will 
hopefully see enough progress 
made on the budget by the time 
he returns from the summit to be 
able to sit down... and hammer 
out a final budget package with 
Congressional leaders.
After meeting Gorbachev Sept.
9 in Helsinki, Bush may extend 
his trip to visit other locations, 
Fitzwater said.
Fitzwater said that more than 
$100 billion in across-the-board 
spending cuts will go into effect 
on Oct. 1 unless Congress and the 
Administration reach a budget 
deal.
Fitzwater said that Bush wont 
sign legislation changing the 
amount of the so-called seques
ter cuts or authorize a change in 
Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit 
reduction targets unless its part
of a comprehensive budget pack
age.
White House Budget Director 
Richard Darman said that if the 
economy were to slow to between 
zero and 1 pc growth, as a result 
of economic complications aris
ing from the Persian Gulf crisis, 
the fiscal 1991 budget deficit could 
be pushed to $250 billion.
Darman stressed that the administration has not changed its 
economic projections and does not 
foresee further economic slow
down but added that the Gulf 
crisis holds a threat of higher 
budget deficits. In August, the 
Bush administration projected 
the fiscal 1991 deficit will reach 
$232 billion, counting the mas- | 
sive costs of the savings and loan j 
cleanup.
In comments made to report
ers, Darman stressed the need to 
craft a budget agreement that cuts 
the deficit by $50 billion in fiscal 
1991 and $500 billion over five 
years.
Yeltsins plan threatens Gorbechevs 
power base in Soviet economy
IVIilken to stand trial next month
Federal prosecutors ignore plea bargain agreement
MOSCOW (AP)Boris Yeltsin, 
president of the Russian republic, 
has come up with a plan that 
would give the republics control 
of their economies and drastically 
reduce the power of the national 
government.
Russia gives the impulse for 
change to the country, Yeltsin
told his legislature. The center 
can no longer ignore this and 
discard everything done by us. 
If approved by the Russian 
republics legislature, the proposal 
would dramatically constrict the 
power of President Mikhail S. 
Gorbachev, Yeltsins rival. 
Gorbachevs national government
would control only a fraction of 
the planned transition from com
munism to a market economy.
Under it, Russia would legalize 
private ownership of land and give 
away huge numbers of stateowned apartments and residen
tial lots to try to solve critical 
shortages of food and housing.
NEW YORK (DJ)  Prosecu
tors will attempt to bring their 
full case against Michael Milken 
before a federal judge next month, 
even though the government 
agreed to accept a plea bargain in 
April.
Prosecutors say they plan to 
urge U.S. District Judge Kimba 
Wood to consider additional alle
gations against Milken when she 
sentences him.
These alleged crimes will be de
tailed in a sentencing memo that 
Wood is scheduled to receive on 
Monday in federal court here.
In the April agreement, Milken, 
the former head of Drexel 
Burnham Lambert Inc.s junkbond department, pleaded guilty 
to six felony counts related to 
unlawful trading. The govern
ment didnt agree to recommend 
any specific sentence, as Milkens
lawyers had hoped.
The government hopes that 
evidence of additional crimes, 
presented in the memo and in live 
testimony by Ivan Boesky and 
others, will induce Judge Wood to 
dole out a stiff sentence for the 
crimes to which Milkeri pleaded 
guilty. The maximum prison sen
tence for these counts is 28 years.
Sentencing is scheduled for 
October 1.
News briefs courtesy of 
Dow Jones, Inc.
Edited by 
T.S. Blass
Layout Assistant 
Christopher Thomas
PRESIDENTS
Distinguished Lecture Series
Judith Franz
Professor of Physics, West Virginia University and 
President of the American Association of Physics Teachers
Women in Science and Engineering
Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
3:30 p.m.
Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall
(A 6tudent/faculty panel discussion will follow the lecture. 
Bringing it All Back Home: The Carnegie Mellon Experience, 
co-sponsored by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute Under
graduate Biological Science Educational Initiative.)
The Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series is organized by 
Faculty Senate, chaired by History Professor John Modell and 
funded by the Office of the President.Free and open to the public

---------------------------------------------------

lum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyi
Oakland sniper suicides after 5-hour standoff
SNIPER, from page 1
liam Bell handed Fisher a Pepsi 
and a note  which he had asked 
forassuring him that no crimi- l nal charges would be filed against 
him if he surrendered, DeRoy 
j said.
Police thought they had gained 
the upper hand in the standoff 
I after Fisher handed over his rifle, 
said DeRoy. Fisher, however, had 
kept a .25 caliber handgun.
DeRoy said that when the ne[ gotiators asked Fisher to give 
himself up, the man asked for a 
few minutes alone to make the 
decision.
Fifteen minutes later, Fisher 
appeared on the last  and 
highest  parapet on the build
ing, giving him what DeRoy called 
a commanding position. He sat 
on the edge of the parapet quietly 
for nearly 45 minutes, his feet 
dangling toward the street.
Shortly after 5 pm, he raised 
the pistol from his lap to his 
temple and, amid protests from 
DeRoy and other negotiators, 
pulled the trigger.
Sixteen stories later, Fisher's 
handgun discharged a second 
time as the mans body struck the 
ground.
We couldnt rush him or get 
close to him because we were 
afraid he would either pull the 
trigger or jump, said DeRoy. He 
threatened to shoot us if we came 
up there. Im afraid it was a nowin situation.
DeRoy said that Fisher started 
firing shots into the air and ran
domly into the street to attract 
attention. He told police that he 
had spent a half-hour on the 
rooftop wearing a fluorescent 
orange hat and toting a rifle in 
hopes of attracting attention.
At press time, police had no 
leads on how Fisher was able to 
get into Moorhead Towers, which 
is a security building.
One of Fishers bullets struck 
the unmarked police car of 
Commander Ronald Freeman. 
DeRoy called the shot coinci
dence, claiming Fisher could not 
have known that the car was a 
police car.
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Contributing Editor
Pittsburgh police officers offer Fisher a note promising that criminal charges will not be brought against him. 
Fisher handed police his rifle, but remained in possession of a handgun which he used to commit suicide.
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette as a computer operator for Al- time in the Navy. He was re
reported Saturday that Fisher had legheny County four months ago, jected, however, on grounds that
become disgruntled with his job and had decided to enlist full- he was overweight and didnt
meet physical requirements. - 
Fisher was discharged from his 
position with a Navy Reserve unit 
adjacent to the Carnegie Mellon 
campus this summer for the sam 
reasons.
The Post-Gazette reported that 
Fisher was most likely disap
pointed after his efforts at self- , 
improvement failed.
The paper reported that Fish_er t 
spent the summer trying to lose - 
weight, curb his drinking habits, I 
and even alter his physical ap- / 
pearance by switching to contact : 
lenses and buying more flatter- r 
ing clothing. r
DeRoy said that Fishers mo- c 
tive for the sniping incident was. 
clearly suicide. ?
At one point, he asked us, Why e 
arent you shooting me now? Go 
ahead, shoot me.  T Th
DeRoy said that Fisher didnt/' 1 
give police any clues about what 5 
might have driven him to the i 
fatal decision. 
A suicide'note found in Fishers 
wallet, which he left atop the i 
parapet, read, I hope the police [ 
will kill me. t
New dorm residents to get cable
Histh-tech record
Thomas Nichols/Tartari Contributing Editor
ilaver?
Hunt Library's new LIS CD-ROM Information Retrieval System is now 
accessable by the campus network. Students can use the system to 
retrieve data in computer format faster and more effectively.
By NICOLE BROCKMANNTartan News Editor
Resnik House and West Wing residents 
may soon be able to receive cable televi
sion service in their suite living rooms, 
according to Director of Housing Tony 
Martin.
Martin said that he had been ap
proached about a petition which was cir
culating in the new residence halls. The 
petition, dated August 31, requested that 
the Housing Office allow individual stu
dents to contact a cable company for ser
vices.
The petition went on to say that the 
Housing Office denies us cable service be
cause allowing it would be unfair to other 
students not living in the New Halls. We 
urge the Housing Office to reconsider its 
position.
Thats just not true, said Martin, in 
response to the allegations of unfairness.
The authors of the petition stressed that 
they did not expect free cable services, but 
wanted to contract the cable company in
dependently.
The petition continued, Further, having 
all the cable wirings installed but not in 
use is ludicrous and also demeaning to the 
Carnegie Mellon University.
I dont believe that the building is ac
tually connected yet, said Martin. But as 
soon as it is connected, students will be 
able to get cable. The services will probably 
be available on the same basis as they are 
in the SDC TV rooms. Because of the semi
public nature of the living areas, the spe
cial movie channels will not be available to
Senators criticize Senates operation
SENATE, from page 1
Senator Doug Rubenstein.
In addition to the funding process,
; many Senators commented on the gen
eral way Senate is run.
Groups dont feel they can come to 
Senate and get our support, said 
Ruben. I dont think groups feel that 
were very receptive.
I dont feel that Senate is aware of 
the needs or interests of students, 
commented new H&SS Senator Hyun 
Shin at Tuesdays meeting.
Shin suggested conducting a large 
survey of campus to find out what 
students really want to happen.
Computer Club president John 
Heinlein agreed. Senate could grab on 
to a few large issues that affect a large 
percentage of people and actually come 
up with a solution or an idea. It would 
go a long way towards fighting apathy. 
Assistant Dean of Student Affairs 
Anne Witchner stressed that Senators 
need to have better interpersonal re
lation skills, both with each other and 
with outside groups.
You must remember to give respect 
to one another, she said. If you want 
respect from this campus, youd better 
start in this room.
Others focused their comments on 
Senates inner worldngs.
There is a void, a lack of leadership 
being shown by Senate, said Rao. 
There are a lot of groups out there 
doing good things and Im not sure Id 
want Senate getting in the way. Its not 
a defeatist attitude, its just based on 
past performance.
A lot of the people who have been 
[committee] chairs have been ineffec
tual because they didnt want to be 
chairs, said CIT Senator Mark 
Schaeffer.
I think we can improve in many 
ways. Our relations with other student 
groups is a big issue, commented 
Neighbor. This should be a place for 
anyone to come anytime.
This needs to be a forum for the 
students.... The Senate should feel free 
to go to any organization. They should 
also make organizations feel welcome 
to come air opinions, said AB president 
Chris Smith.
Rao thought a fresh start was a good 
idea. It works along with the restruc
turing goals I have for my adminis
tration. We have a new beginning here. 
[Carnegie Mellon President Robert] 
Mehrabian is very student-oriented, 
and I see the opportunity for student 
government to accomplish a lot. We 
need to seize the opportunity while we 
have it.
Rao also said that he was willing to 
help. Were all on the same side here. 
My thought is to give committees the 
resources to be effective, like a blank
The Housing Office denies us cable service be
cause allowing it would be b,heC8 to other stu
dents not living in the New Halls. We urge the 
Housing Office to reconsider its position. 
P excerpt from a petition 
circulated in the new halls
students.
Martin said that the cost of installing 
the cable services was included in the 
construction of the new halls.
Cable services will be provided by Pitts
burgh Telecommunications, Inc., the only, 
cable television company in the Pittsburgh 
area. The company has said that they are 
unwilling to deal directly with individual 
students, but that they will provide service 
to the University if the University is the 
customer.
The basic service available will cost $20 
per month for each outlet, or $180 for the 
year.
However, students who request service 
at the beginning of the year will not be 
eligible for a refund after service has be
gun.
It seems doubtful, however, that there 
will be a large problem with students 
wanting refunds.
I think its great, commented senior 
mechanical engineering major Todd 
Balbera, a resident of Resnik House.
Jonathan Lee, another Resnik House
resident, fives in a double which is not in a 3 
suite. Therefore, it is not possible for Lee to 
get cable service in his room. He did think :i 
that cable services were a good idea, though^ e 
especially since considering that all of these 
rooms have concrete ceilings, the reception i 
is really bad for regular TV. 1
Its a pretty good deal, commented jiffiS 3 
ior applied history/economics major Seafi 
McGoldrick, who is a resident assistant in L 
Resnik House. 0
Martin discounted the possibility that 1, 
students might find ways to "steal" cable 1 
services.
"This is the same type of cable service; 
available in the SDC TV rooms ... and my.c 
sense is that that's not been a problem. If 
students steal service, we would have toz 
take action, but I dont think that should! 
keep us from providing a service we cane 
provide."
Resnik and West Wing residents wishingt 
to order cable must submit a written re-i! 
quest including names and signatures ojfi 
students willing to share in the cost to th'e 
Housing Office by September 13. l \
There is a void, a lack of leadership being 
shown by Senate.
P Kishore RaoO 
Student Government President
check of support, and then be a resultsoriented group.
Witchner stressed her support of the 
new plans.
I believe that the people on Student 
Senate are a committed group, she 
said.  It takes time to get elected, an no 
one just does it for fun. Understand
ably, with new faces every semester, 
its hard to maintain consistency. It 
may be that they just need to market 
themselves better.
No one would say the Senate doesnt 
have some problems right now, said 
Neighbor. My push is going to be to 
action committees... that will get things 
done. It will be a hard semester while 
we turn things around. I think in
creased efficiency is a good way to say 
it. This is not necessarily a total reorga
nization, but a streamlining.
Rao also said that he wasnt fighting. 
Were all on the same side here. My 
thought is to give committees the re
sources to be effective and then be a 
results-oriented group. Other organi
zations need to be able to talk to us. We 
dont get a lot of respect right now; we 
probably dont deserve it. I want to 
change that.
Whats going on?
SEPTEMBER
1
?345678
9101112131415
16171819PO2122
23242526272829
Tell us  its free.
Submissions to University Calendar are a great way to let 
busy students know what your group has planned. The 
best part of all is, theyre completely free.
To make a submission to The Tartans University 
Calendar, just type up a 50-word-or-less blurb and send it 
via campus mail to The Tartan, Skibo Hall. Or drop it 
electronically into The Tartans AppleShare server in the 
Skibo zone.
Its as simple as that.THE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

Slum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyi
D. A. Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager
KGB members have fun in the sun with water balloons at a picnic on the Cut 
last Saturday.
Senate approves special budget packet
By D. A. HENDERSONTartan Darkroom Manager
The final phase of the revision of spring 
budgets went through last Thursday 
night when Student Senate passed the 
new spring budget packet in a special 
meeting. The budgets were reduced by 14 
percent due to the failure of the April 
referendum to raise the Activities Fee.
The new budget figure of $308,645 
leaves Senate with $28,028 in reserve 
and special allocation funds. The packet 
passed by a vote of 1611.
All of the budgets approved Thursday 
night were 14 percent less than their 
original amounts approved by Senate last 
spring. Two budgets, those of Mayur and 
the Korean Students Association, were 
frozen due to their presidents failure to 
appear at the hearing.
Other budgets showed significant re
ductions: Student Senate eliminated its
if we don't get the transmitter within 60 days 
of passing the current range, [the FCC] can basi
cally fine us whatever they feel like. 
P Hugh Moore, 
WRCT public relations director
own food and travel budget, the Student Union and the Computer Club did not re
ceive new computers, and AB Tech will not 
be able to purchase a new sound system. 
The Computer Club, WRCT, and the Student Union have already requested special allo
cation hearings in hopes of recovering lost 
funds.
Of the $14,000 in reserve funds set aside 
for special allocations, $8,000 will probably 
be set aside for WRCTs new transmitter. 
According to WRCTs director of public relations, Hugh Moore, Senate approved 
the money. After they approved the 
money, we applied for the transmitter, 
then Senate funds dried up. So, if we dont 
get the transmitter within 60 days of 
passing the current range, [the FCC] can 
basically fine us whatever they feel like.
The Thistle yearbook will also be apply
ing for a special allocation in hopes of 
producing an earlier book this year.
The special allocation hearing will be 
held tonight at 7:30 in the Senate office.
Crime and Incident Report
8/31 THEFT, 12:45 am. A po
lice scanner was stolen from the 
front seat of a Campus Police ve,hicle while the officers were in. vestigating a noise complaint in 
the East Campus area. The 
scanner is valued at $145.
8/31 VANDALISM, 11:52 am. 
A Carnegie Mellon staff member 
 reported that an unknown person
 smashed in the touchscreen on
* the Computer Information Kiosk 
1 in Grey Matter. The value of the 
damaged screen is not known at 
this time.
8/31 UNDERAGE POSSES
SION OF ALCOHOL, 9:24 pm. 
While on patrol, two Campus 
Police officers noticed a person 
carrying two cups of beer across 
Morewood Avenue from Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon fraternity to 
Morewood Gardens. Upon the 
officers approach, the individual
poured out the beers and ran be
hind Morewood Gardens, where, 
in view of another officer, he 
stashed the beer cups behind a 
dumpster and continued to flee. 
He was eventually apprehended 
in the 4900 block of Fifth Avenue. 
He was extremely uncooperative, 
used abusive language, and de
nied that he was a student. In 
addition to the public intoxica
tion charge, the student was is
sued internal citations for under
age drinking and outside alcohol.
9/1 HARASSMENT/DISOR
DERLY CONDUCT, 1:05 am. As 
officers were patrolling the fra
ternities, a member of Sigma Al
pha Epsilon fraternity directed 
verbal abuse towards them as they 
passed SAE. He was shouting 
Theres the cop who arrested me. 
Yeah, thats him, thats the one 
who took me to jail. The student
had previously been cited for un
derage possession of alcohol, 
public intoxication, and outside 
alcohol.
9/2 MEDICAL, 3:52 am. 
Campus Police responded to a call 
at Hamerschlag House and found 
a resident vomiting alcohol. The 
resident assistant for the floor 
was advised to contact Campus 
Police if there were any further 
problems.
9/2 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 3 
pm. A student reported that 
someone had unrolled a firehose 
on the first floor of Morewood CTower and had hosed down the 
hallway in that area. Some water 
had soaked into the basement via 
the elevator shaft, but soaked 
carpets were the only visible
9/2 HARASSMENT, 2:13 am. 
A resident of Hamerschlag House
received a letter via campus mail 
containing a message and a 
condom. Also, between the hours 
of 3:30 am and 11:30 am, a mes
sage was taped to his door, along 
with another condom. The stu
dent has also been receiving ha
rassing phone calls.
The student was advised to re
port all incoming calls and letters 
to the campus police. Investigator 
Kaiser will be made aware of the 
situation.
9/2 UNAUTHORIZED EN
TRY, 2:26 am. A resident of 
Morewood D-Tower reported that 
a white male, dark hair, 65 tall, 
190 lbs., wearing a white T-shirt 
and a white baseball cap with 
N.C. State written on it, walked 
into the residents room and sat 
down. The student was asked 
several times to leave but pro
ceeded to harass the resident,
saying you sounded a little 
lonely. The resident was forced 
to summon friends and a fight 
nearly broke out before the in
truder was persuaded to leave.
9/2 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 2:56 am. Campus Police 
broke up a possible fight between 
members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
and Alpha Tau Omega. The dis
pute started when an ATO brother 
was beaten by SAE brothers for 
openly urinating on the SAE 
dance floor.
9/3 THEFT, 3:37 pm. A green 
charcoal grill belonging to the 
Housing Office was removed from 
the court between Resnik and 
West Wing of the New Dorms. 
The grill was later found on the 
Skibo patio with no damage.
9/3 ACCIDENT, 6:13 PM. A 
black 1990 Mercedes collided with 
a bicycle while turning onto Tech
Street from Schenley Drive. The 
bicycle rider suffered a bruised 
elbow and several scrapes and 
bruises on both knees. .
9/5 HAZARDOUS MATE
RIAL, 2:54 pm. An ABM worker 
reported finding a bag marked 
Caution: Radioactive Material 
in a trash can in Mellon Institute. 
The room was secured and per
sonnel from Mellon Institute w^re 
notified.
9/6 VIOLATION OF 
POSTER POLICY, 3:37. Post
ers advertising the AB Coffee
house Comedy Show on Septem
ber 8 were found on numerous 
bulletin boards throughout the 
campus. These posters measured 
17x22, in violation of the bulle
tin board policy as stated on page 
31 of the Student Handbook.
Compiled by NATHAN 
FULLERTON
A VERY PERSONAL 
WELCOME BACK 
FROM DATA GENERAL
Data General is proud to announce a PC Program offering special 
discounts to the entire CARNEGIE MELLON community.
For sales and service on the complete line of D^ta General Personal 
Computers, offering only the most advanced technology.
Compare the features of these systems and decide on the one that 
will serve your computing needs for the Fall term...and beyond.
Sample System Configurations
DASHER 286-12J
12MHz 80286 Processor  1 MB RAM - 40MB Hard Disk Drive 
3.5" 1.44MB Diskette  5.25" 1.2MB Diskette  VGA Controller 
VGA 14" Color Monitor (.31 MM pitch)  101/102 Key Enhanced 
AT Compatible Keyboard  DOS 4.01 or DOS 3.3  GW-BASIC 
LIM 4.0 Driver
$1,600.60 
DASHER 386SX-16
16MHz 80386 Processor  2MB RAM  40MB Hard Disk 
3.5" 1.44MB Diskette Drive  VGA Controller 
VGA 14" Monitor (.31 MM pitch)  101/102 Key Enhanced AT 
Compatible Keyboard  DOS 4.01 or DOS 3.3  OEMM-386
$2,424.00 
DASHER 386-25 MHz
25 MHz 80386 Processor  4MB RAM  100MB Hard Disk 
3.5" 1.44MB Diskette Drive  VGA Controller  VGA 14" Color 
Monitor (.31 MM pitch)  Microsoft Mouse  101/102 Key 
Enhanced AT Compatible Keyboard  DOS 4.01 or DOS 3.3 
OEMM-386
$3,459.00
pn8 vn8m C,hn8ve5Cn, n, nb8 1nvUrm5m 9s rC,m0n8 5n 
n8Em8 RDd00Urmewm 1err HC1u 7C,2uev e5 yog0cSig hn8 
Lnb8 pHTT Ne5e fm,m8er 9s 9n1Am5 fbCEm3
Data General
Orientation 1990 Counselors
THANK YOU 
FOR ALL YOUR 
HARD WORK
Meeting Tonight 
Tuesday, September 11 8:00-9:00 
Doherty Hall 1112
Discussion about Fall Faculty Mentor Program
Contact Anne Witchner x2074

---------------------------------------------------

lum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyic
Carnegie Mellon in BriefSDS shuts down PH 217 cluster
Recycling program begins
On September 26, Carnegie Mellon will begin a new recycling 
program mandated by Pennsylvania Act 101. This law requires 
institutions and companies to recycle office paper, cardboard, 
aluminum cans, and leaf waste.
The university will appoint a recycling coordinator with primary 
responsibility for the recycling program and non-hazardous waste 
disposal. Each department will also designate its own recycling 
coordinator. Recycling programs already in existence on campus 
will continue to operate, provided that they do not hinder the 
campus-wide program. Paper and cardboard recyclables will be 
removed from office areas by custodial employees.
Aluminum cans will continue to be collected in all campus 
residence halls. Warner Hall, UCC, Hunt Library, Stores, Re
ceiving, and Physical Plant will begin paper/cardboard recycling.
There are no immediate plans for plastic recycling on campus, 
but the City of Pittsburgh will open a glass and plastic recycling 
center in the Frick Park Nature Center on September 26.
Gallery hosts new show
The Carnegie Mellon Art Gallery, 207 South Craig Street, 
Oakland, is now hosting the fourth annual Perspectives in 
Pennsylvania show, an exhibit of site-specific installations by 
Pennsylvania artists.
Three Pittsburgh artists were among the nine selected by the 
gallerys director, Elaine A. King, developer of the annual exhibit. 
The nine artists included in this exhibition span a spectrum of 
approaches and styles. Collectively, they touch on the many 
avenues explored over the past 25 years. What connects these 
artists and their spectrum of vision is their ability to enter a room 
and see it as raw potential, she said.
The featured artists are Michael Morrill and Michael Pestel, 
Pittsburgh; Marina Warren Nash, Sewickley; Mei-Ling Horn, 
Daniel Lowenstein, Eileen Neff, Richard Torchia, Philadelphia; 
Lucy Gans, Allentown; and Duane McDiarmid, Lancaster.
The show will run until October 21. Admission is free. For more 
information, call x3110.
Foreign Service offers exam
The once-a-year Foreign Service Written Examination will be 
held on October 27. Accordingto Ambassador Edward J. Perkins, 
director general of the Foreign Service and director of personnel 
for the Department of State, the test will be given in more than 
200 locations in the U.S. and at all U.S. embassies and consulates 
abroad.
Because Foreign Service officers must be available for world
wide service, during their careers they may be assigned to 
countries with politically unstable environments, harsh climates, 
or health or security hazards. People considering a career in the 
Foreign Service must have strong motivation and a firm dedication 
to advancing the national interests of the United States.
The written examination is the first step leading to appoint
ment as a career Foreign Service Officer with the Department of 
State, the United States Information Agency and the Foreign 
Commercial Service of the Department of Commerce. To be 
eligible to take the exam, applicants must be at least 20 years old 
on the date of the test, citizens of the United States, and available 
for worldwide assignment.
Although no specific educational level is required to take the 
exam, success in the written exam requires a broad knowledge of 
international and domestic affairs, U.S. and world history, gov
ernment and foreign policy, as well as political and cultural 
sensitivity. Virtually all successful candidates have at least a 
bachelors degree and many have advanced degrees interna
tional relations, economics, business administration, law, and 
journalism.
For more information or an application, write to the Department 
of State, Recruitment Division, P.O. Box 9317, Arlington, VA, 
22209, or call (703) 875-7490. The deadline for submitting com
pleted applications is September 21.
CLUSTER, from page 1
Social and Decisions Sciences Department 
Head Mark Kamlet originally tried seeking 
an alternative route to shutting down the 
cluster by approaching the College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences for financial 
assistance, but the college was unable to 
help.
And without SDS support, Academic 
Computing cant afford to run it either, said 
Aulfinger.
PH 217 was Carnegie Mellons smallest 
cluster, with less than half the computers of 
some clusters on campus.
However, the clusters small size did not go 
far towards lowering its necessary operating 
budget.
Even though its smaller, [PH 217] cost 
just as much to staff, just as much to main
tain, and just as much  in some ways, 
actually more  to manage, said Aulfinger..
To eliminate the costs of staffing, manag
ing, and maintaining the cluster, Aulfinger, 
Kamlet, and others from SDS and AC have 
relocated the PH 217 machines to five other 
clusters on campus. The three Macintosh IIs 
went to UCC and the IBM PC XTs with 
Excelerator to Baker Hall 140. Of the 4 
DECstations formerly at PH 217, two are 
now in the Resnik cluster, one is at UCC, and 
the other is at the Margaret Morrison Plaza 
cluster.
With the dollars saved from the shutdown,
As a student, I was upset that it was closed. Id 
like to see it back open, especially since Im a TA.
I know a lot of the IS students needed that cluster 
pretty badly.
P Nina Pinto, 
TA for Structured Analysis and Design
SDS and AC will install three additional 
IBM PC ATs for Excelerator use in Hunt 
Library.
By moving the equipment to other sites, 
and adding more equipment than ever be
fore, weve been able to improve computing 
access while saving tuition dollars, 
Aulfinger said.
Some IDS students, however, feel that 
breakingup the clusterthough financially 
beneficial  has also broken up the group 
unity that PH 217 promoted among them.
Others, such as Susan Wade, a senior IS 
student and former cluster manager of PH 
217, have other ideas for restoring the social 
ambience of the emptied cluster.
Why not turn it into a meeting place for 
the IS students? Kind of an IS lounge, she 
said. Granted, there wont be computers 
there, but it would help if the students knew
there was always a place where they could hav< 
a group meeting. If the phone were left in, i 
would help in that the TAs could hang out there 
and answer questions over the phone. There 
are also many things that can be done withou 
actually sitting in front of the computer..;
Others have raised the concern that the CGoni 
of the other clusters might not be able to answe: 
IDS-related questions.
According to Wade, however, the reasori&ia 
PH 217 CCons may have been particularly 
helpful to IDS majors in the past is that with s< 
many students asking questions, most of tht 
PH 217 CCons took the time to learn at leas 
the basics about the software.
There is no reason that the Baker, Hunt 
and UCC CCons cant do that, said Wade. Ii 
fact, there will most likely be classes of a sort t< 
teach any CCon who is interested about th< 
[Information Systems] software.
Volumeo85
,oIesumo5
2Caur5
H/SS & IM Graduating Seniors 
Wednesday, September 19,1990 
H/SS & IM Resume Books
Each book will be mailed to approximately 300 potential employers. 
One-page resumes must be submitted to the Career Center, Warner Hall 
19. If you need help with writing your resume, make an appointment to see 
Debbie Mall in the Center at x2064.
Outdoor Fun - Ohiopyle, Pa.
 White Water Rafting
 Bicycling
 Duckies
 Outdoor Crossfire
.C5u 'nb2uCn2um,L Db5hC55m8w 
Sgo0Joy0ScSy
10% OFF
10% off regular prices with this coupon
Coupon good for only one activity 
One coupon per person 
Coupon expires 10-21-90
Student Senate Minutes
Minutes of September 4, 1990
Meeting called to order at ap
proximately 7:04pm.
Senators present: Austen, 
Barnes, Blake, Dautermann, 
Dean, Gelman, Golembiewski, 
Kadesh, Kaufman, Lewis, Meek, 
Moran, Neighbor, Ruben, 
Rubinstein, Schaeffer, Shin, 
Spivack, Venable, Wyatt, Zucker.
Senators absent: Bucholtz, 
Handrinos, Hoffman, Loomis, 
Metz, Robe, Stocker.
Ex-Officios present: Ginsburg, Hamilton, Rao, Smith, Dean 
Witchner.
Activities Board: An Open 
House is in the planning stages.
Student Dormitory Council: 
SDC meetings are every 
Wednesday at 7:00 in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo. SDC acts 
as another governing body on 
campus through the Residence 
Hall System addressing concerns 
in Housing, Dining Facilities, and 
Properties, as well as sponsoring 
a variety of programs on campus.
Greek Council: CFP has 
changed its name to Intra-Fraternity Council. Basically, IFCs 
exist on other campuses while 
CFPs did not. The Greek Council 
has also added a system of by
laws to their structure.
President  Kishore Rao: 
Kishore has started to form some
committees to deal with various 
issues of concern on the CMU 
campus. Contact him if you are 
interested in serving on a com
mittee.
Student Senate Chair  
Chris Neighbor: There are two 
serious vacancies on the Student 
Senate: the Student Government 
Treasurer and the Rules Chair. 
These need to be filled immedi
ately.
The Senate Office will be moved 
to the Tartan Loft later this week. 
All officers should hand in their 
old keys to get new ones. Key 
cards will be handed out to all 
other senators.
General Discussion: Neigh
bor opened the floor to discussion 
stating that he felt Senate has not 
been very effective with its man
power.
What do other senators feel?
Senate should act as a repre
sentative between the students 
and the administration rather 
than a funding body.
Promote activities.
It would work better as just a 
financial body.
Senate needs a self-examina
tion.
The campus is not informed. 
Senate should disperse informa
tion about what is going on on 
campus.
 Senate is no longer a body of 
action like it once was. It is now 
just a vehicle for discussion that 
doesnt take enough responsibil
ity.
Others felt that there was a 
connection between people not 
having a good attitude about 
themselves and their college and 
this comes out in ways such as 
people not having the time or 
energy to get things accomplished.
What should be done about 
these problems?
A large survey should be con
ducted to see what the students 
here really think and feel.
Resources should be utilized 
more effectively.
All the presidents of all the 
organizations should get together 
to have a similar discussion to 
this one.
Groups do not feel that they 
can come to Senate; what kind of 
representation is that?
 CMU needs Student Trustees.
The focus should be on the
committees. Committee structure 
should change.
Senators should act as a liai
son to clubs and organizations.
The Senate is too large and 
cumbersome at times.
Committee Goals
Academic Affairs: Keep in close 
contact with Kishores academic
committee.
Perhaps devise the position o 
Student Trustees. Work on th 
Pass/Fail policy.
Campus Affairs: The state o 
buildings such as the College o 
Fine Arts and Architecture wor) 
rooms should be investigated 
This could be started by an in 
depth tour of campus. Vandalism 
the Shuttle Route, as well as in 
teraction with Greeks should als 
be looked into.
Funding and Recognition: Per 
haps the committee could be re 
structured.
Having a friendlier relationshi 
with other organizations ah 
committees is also a goal to kee 
in mind.
Public Relations: PR shoul 
make the campus aware -o 
Senates opinion on matters an 
issues instead of just advertisin 
events.
Write articles and opinio: 
pieces to both newspapers. A< 
quaint students with senators.
Rules: Rewrite and reorganiz 
the Constitution. Perhaps stud : 
other legislative groups at othe 
universities.
And Senate in general needs t 
commit to getting things don 
again and work together as th 
governing body it should be. !Submitted by M.J. Kell
STUDY SKILLS TUTORS NEEDED
Tutors work individually with students and conduct 
workshops. A good academic average and willingness to work 
with students from all subject areas is required. 
Training is required.
Flexible Hours $4.25 hr.
Call Leaning Services x6878
(jcmejdn us... we are ike United Ll)au
Unibed Wiay

---------------------------------------------------

FORI!
Senate just needs a strong push
Arts Center must open its doors to all
Student Senate is a body so 
riddled with problems that its 
time to trash the whole organiza
tion and start over  or so says 
Chair Chris Neighbor.
While Senates clearly got its 
share of problems, we dont think 
the full reorganization champi
oned by Neighbor will fix things.
Senates current problems were 
not brought on by its structure. 
Instead, theyve been brought on 
by a proliferation of attitudes like 
those of first-time Senator Michael 
Gelman, an MCS junior, who told 
Senate last week that he ran for a 
seat because no one else was 
running from his college.
To us, theres no question why 
Senate hasnt done anything ex
cept juggle money recently. Too 
many Senators have no reason for 
being there.
Desire for positive change and 
anger about University policies 
arent the motivating factors that 
bring Senators to the Wherrett 
Room on Tuesday nights. Instead, 
were left with representatives 
who chose their campus political 
careers with less thought than 
they give their dinner selections 
in the Highlander Cafe eachnight.
Theres nothing inherently 
wrong with Senates structure. 
Whats really needed in Senate is 
an agenda for action. Senate 
doesnt seem ready to generate 
one, however, so we thought wed 
try ourselves:
Campus Affairs
Senates Campus Affairs com
mittee is supposed to concern it
self with the campus life of the 
student body. In reality, it hasnt 
done much in over a year.
24-hour Campus. An idea 
thats been kicked around for some 
time, but never considered by 
Senate. The argument is that 
students stay up all night, so why 
shouldnt student support func
tions of the University, like Din
ing Service and Entropy, also stay 
up? Predictably, the administra
tion is unlikely to unilaterally 
extend service hours  it costs 
money, after all. Whats needed is 
student pressure  and Campus 
Affairs is just the group to do it.
Parking. For students with 
cars who cant get parking permits
 that is, for most students with 
cars  theres virtually no park
ing near campus. Its a difficult 
problem, one that Senate hasnt 
addressed. We need an advocacy
arm with the city and the neigh
borhood groups around campus.
Academic Affairs
The Academic Affairs commit
tee is the counterpart of Campus 
Affairs, charged with promoting 
students academic interests.
Smoking. Academic Affairs 
has been blowing smoke about 
designated smoking areas in 
academic buildings for some time 
now, to no effect. How about a 
firm commitment for real action 
this semester? Setting a goal to 
resolve the problem by November 
would be a good idea  that way, 
smokers wont have to stand in 
the snow again this winter.
Finals Policy. Ever see the 
fine print that says papers and 
lab reports cant be due during 
finals? Ever wonder if anyone else 
sees it? If the policy is unrealistic, 
lets make it useable; wed suggest 
a modification so that a professor 
could assign homework due dur
ing finals only if he or she was not 
giving an exam. Whatever the 
policy, it should be enforced  
theres no other way to protect the 
interests of students who are oth
erwise subject to intimidation.
Funding and Recognition
No agenda here; Funding and 
Recognition is the only committee 
with its hands already full. Re
cently, its been busy managing 
the budget crisis brought on by 
the failure of the Activities Fee 
referendum last semester, and 
doing a pretty good job of it, too.
Public Relations
Right now, Public Relations is 
the advertising arm of Senate  
and thats a problem. Members of 
this committee shouldnt forget 
that public relations should be a 
two-way process. How about 
gathering ideas from the student 
body for problems Senate should 
address and passing those ideas 
on to the appropriate committees?
Rules
All the Rules Committee does is 
recommend amendments to the 
Constitution from time to time, 
which is to say, it doesnt do much 
but hold meetings.
Our agenda for Rules: Draft an 
amendment abolishing itself. 
When the need for a constitutional 
amendment arises in the future, 
Senate should appoint an ad hoc 
committee to address it.
Editor:
This letter concerns 
the article Mellon 
pledges arts center" 
that ran in The Tartan 
last week [9/4],
Dean Burgess, if you want to at every 
level possible overcome the feelings that 
CFA is isolated from the rest of the 
university, assuming control of the pro
posed Performing Arts Center made pos
sible through the generosity of Paul 
Mellon is not the way to do it.
Unless I am mistaken, the $5 million 
contribution was not given to the College 
of Fine Arts. It was given to Carnegie 
Mellon University. It was therefore 
meant to be enjoyed, not by one part of 
the whole, but by the whole itself.
This is not to say that CPA does not 
have a desperate need for more perfor
mance space. It does. Nor is this to say 
that CFA does not deserve more space. It 
most definitely does. I have seen many 
performances in CFA in my three years 
here, both in drama and music, and while 
I havent liked everything I heard or saw, 
I have never been anything other than 
impressed by the quality of the work that 
I have seen.
However, CFAis not the only source of 
the arts on this campus. There are many 
organizations that exist for those stu
dents interested in the arts who have 
found the doors of CFA all but closed to 
them. These organizations, such as AB, 
Scotch N Soda, WRCT, the Kiltie Band, 
and the many groups of students who 
pursue their interests through classes in 
photography and at the Pittsburgh Film 
Makers, would give their collective right 
arms for even a small fraction of the
Editor:
Allan Bourdius re
cent celebration of the 
myth of John F. Letter tO 
Kennedy [JFK's ^ [I^itOr 
words prove more true 
30 years later, 9/4] offers the cartoonish 
cliches ofjunior high school history books 
in hopes if shedding light on U.S. rela
tions to a complex and dynamic geo
political landscape. In an editorial 
redolent ofEntertainment Tonight, Boys Life, and White House press releases, 
Mr. Bourdius actually fails to acknowl
edge the sordid history of American 
military and corporate intervention 
around the world.
Mr. Bourdius seems to think that the 
world is our playground, and that the 
U.S. government has a natural, unques
tioned entitlement to name the game, 
set the rules, and enforce them. Yet, 
what poses as paternal benevolence is, 
in fact, a thinly disguised global interMehrabian need
Editor:
It would seem that 
being a horse owner is 
a crime at Carnegie 
Mellon. At least thats 
the impression I got 
when I read Susan Abrams column in 
The Tartan last week [Mehrabians 
produced summer heat for frazzled stu
dent, 9/4]. She seemed to imply that Dr. 
Mehrabian was trying to underhandedly 
get CMU to finance his wifes outrageous 
hobby, and its only because it became 
public knowledge that these plans were
resources available to CFA. They must 
instead function with little or no storage 
space and with extremely limited capital 
resources. The fact that their budgets, 
small to begin with, face across-the-board 
reductions this year only compounds their 
problems.
Scotch N Soda, for example, is the 
only theatrical outlet available at this 
university to non-drama majors. For over 
80years this organization has showcased 
original workby all members ofthe CMU 
community. It counts students from all 
the colleges on this campus among its 
members. It has accomplished all of this 
without any theater space whatsoever. 
It produces its work in the far from 
favorable conditions of the Wherrett 
Room, the Ballroom, and occasionally 
Scotland Yard. Its members have to build 
their own stage and backstage area for 
every show. They have to do without 
such luxuries as fly space and fixed 
seating entirely. They have to rent almost 
all of the equipment they use from 
Duquesne, Pitt, and rental companies 
because they cant afford to purchase 
their own. Scotch N Soda members also 
have to wire their own sound and lights 
completely from scratch for each perfor
mance, which, considering the space 
problems facing this campus, usually 
means starting bright and early the 
morning of the show, as the rooms used 
are often completely booked, and just 
getting one for a day is difficult enough. 
The situation will only worsen when 
Skibo is torn down sometime in the next 
two years. What must also be kept in 
mind is that to these people, this is the
ater for theaters sake, not for a degree or 
to enlighten others. These students do
ventionism  a kinder, gentler imperi
alism whose roots lie in the expan d-orstagnate ideology typical in late 19th 
century U.S. foreign policy. Then (as 
now) the principle concern of the federal 
government centered on the viability of 
internal corporate interest. When con
fronted with the crisis of capitalist over
production, the administrations of 
Cleveland, Harrison, McKinley, and 
Roosevelt answered with increasingly 
aggressive military and political tactics 
designed to secure overseas consumer 
markets and productivity.
As the great racist-imperialist Henry 
Cabot Lodge once proudly boasted, We 
have a record of conquest, colonialization, 
and expansion unequalled by any people 
in the Nineteenth Century. We are not to 
be curbed now. Such surprisingly frank 
confessions of racial and cultural 
supremacism have their analogues in, 
for example, the barbaric slaughter of 
hundreds of thousands of Filipino farmnot apologize for
dropped.
Every time Ive read an article that 
talks about the Mehrabians horses, I get 
the impression that Dr. Mehrabian has 
to apologize for his wifes unusual hobby 
(which is perhaps not so unusual out 
West). People seem to think that owning 
horses is very expensive, and that horse 
owners are snobs.
I graduated from this university and 
currently work here, and I own three 
horses of my own, which I pay for out of 
my part-time salary.
Some other horse owners I know are
all of this and attend regular classes in 
their respective majors. Needless to say, 
it isnt easy.
Then why do they do it? They do it 
because they love the theater. They do it 
because they know, as you should know, 
Dean Burgess, that the best way to ex
perience the arts is to create them, to be 
involved in the creative process. They do 
it because just buying the tickets and 
attending the performances of CFA is 
not enough. To encounter art in all its 
forms, as you said, should be the goal of 
the new Center; students should have 
the opportunity to write, direct, design, 
produce, perform, sing, and dance 
themselves. Unless CFA is willing to 
open its productions to the entire cam
pus, which obviously is not a viable alter
native, the new Performing Arts Center, 
if only a portion of it, must be open to the 
whole campus community. If CFAs goal 
is truly to educate and enlighten, I should 
think you would want to foster and en
courage the pursuit of the arts by ev
eryone, not just by your own students.
Dean Burgess, it is time to put behind 
us the notion that This is my building/ 
facility, that is yours. It is time to stop 
thinking that only the professionals on 
this campus are capable of quality work, 
and are therefore deserving of quality 
facilities. It is time to start thinking of 
Carnegie Mellon as a university, rather 
than a loose group of colleges that only 
interact when they are competing for 
resources. Dean Burgess, it is time to 
start thinking of others needs as well as 
your own.
Jim OConnell 
Senior, IM/H&SS
ers and their families at the hands of 
U.S. troops in 1988. The dust had barely 
settled before business interests swooped 
in to collect the spoils; as usual, U.S. 
military aggression and occupation only 
served to mediate U.S. commercial ex
ploitation.
Mr. Bourdius flag-waving manifesto 
resonates with the self-righteous senti
ments of Cabot Lodge: We must move 
carefully, slowly, and most importantly, 
firmly.... Our job should be to direct the world.... In our quest, we must be firm 
and steadfast in our track. If necessary, 
we must apply our strength to stabilize 
and direct the world.... Here again, we 
find the wolf in sheeps clothing  the 
racist-imperialist posing as benevolent 
capitalist patriarch attempting to mor
ally justify for himself global domination. 
In actuality, history shows that the U.S. 
desires to manage and direct the des
tiny of the entire world has a baser purcontinued on page 8
wife's pasttime
bookkeepers and high school teachers. 
No high-paying professions there.
I know a lot of people who spend more 
money on their hobbies than I do on my 
horses (flying private planes, collecting 
stamps and coins, etc.). You are privileged 
to do as you wish with your own money, 
once you are earning it. Why dont we 
focus more on what Dr. Mehrabian does 
for our university, and not on his wifes 
hobby?
Mary Ann Pike, CIT 80 
Documentation Specialist, SEI
THE TARTAN
Editor-in-Chief........................Howdy Pierce
Managing Editor..............Michael T. Rose
Business Manager..................Frank DiVito
News Editor........................Nicole Brockmann
Asst. News Editor...........Rhonda Struminger
Forum Editor...........................Susan Abrams
Sports Editor.....................Katie Culbertson
Asst. Sports Editor..........Jason McDonald
Features Editor...........................Kevin Barney
Asst. Features Editors Dexter T. Kobayashi 
Trupti Patel
Diversions Editor Stephen Glicker
Asst. Diversions Editors ...Dawn Brosonskl 
Terri Kasch
Calendar Editor................Daniel DeGrandpre
Magazine Editor................Jennifer Kersteln
Asst. Magazine Editor................Alison Green
Dossier Literary Editor................Jack Silbert
Dossier Design Editor..............Chris Shields
..William C. Sabram
........Kristina Boinis
......Tad Dockstader
....Ignatius Sasmita
Art Editor................
Asst. Art Editor........
Photo Editor...........
Photo Staff Manager..
Darkroom Manager..............D.A. Henderson
Production Manager...................Beth Moses
Copy Manager......................Natalie Peterson
Asst. Business Mgr............Michael Ewedosh
Contributing Editors:
William Burky Grant Carmichael 
James B. Endres Dustin Frazier 
Nathan Fullerton Farron W. Levy 
Jonathan Levy Eric McAnallen 
Thomas Nichols Don Pickett
Carnegie Mellon Universitys student newspaper since 1906
Tho Tartan is the sludent newspaper of Carnegife Mellon Univer
sity. II is a weekly newspaper published by students during the fall 
and spring semesters, al no cost to members ol the University 
community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing,Inc. 
Subscriptions are available lor the somesteror academic year. The 
Editorials appearing at the beginning ol the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns are the 
opinions of individual authors. Letters to the Editor are opinions 
 of authors who are usually, but not necessarily members of the 
' University community. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan re
serves the right to condense or reject any letter or column. Copyright  1990 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves 
the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for pub
lication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 /
Carnegie Mellon University /
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Os
qm55m8 5n 
5um TEC5n8
JFK article suffers from historical amnesia
qm55m8 5n 
5um TEC5n8

---------------------------------------------------

lum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyiG
The generation gap proves to be more serious than we think
Don Pickett
I wrote a letter home recently, which, 
in itself, was a Herculean task. Last 
year, I mailed something like three let
ters all year, and those only after being 
begged by irate acquaintances who hadnt 
heard anything all year. This year, not 
'even ten days in the school year, I mailed 
my parents a three and a half page letter 
'written of my own volition  and 
mailed that sucker right away.
; The letter was, however, much more 
important than anything I sent lastyear. 
I was reintroducingmyselfto my parents. 
I Ya see, this summer I sorta fell out of 
'touch with my parents, through a vari
ety of reasons (all detailed exquisitely in the letter) which I dont want to run 
through here. Among other things, the 
problem was caused by the generation 
gap.
: I never thought I would use that phrase 
seriously. To my ears, it sounded like one
of the most overused clichs around, an 
all-encompasing excuse for a lack of com
munication between parents and their 
children, something that the parents 
could fall back on when they couldnt 
establish any real communication with 
their children.
But, I found, as I wrote home, there is 
a generation gap. It does indeed cause a 
lack of communication between parents 
and children. It is not, however, the all
purpose excuse that people have turned 
it into, the clichd family sit-com joke, 
the Brady Bunch plot twist.
Whatever totems.our parents steered 
by in their youth  hell, I dont know, I 
wasnt there. The closest I can come is to 
use images culled from the media, and 
what our culture has fed me. Our par
ents may have grown up with the abso
lute supremacy of the United States, the 
unquestionable evil of Communism, faith 
in elected officials, a sense that every 
normal family had two parents, what
ever. If these are anywhere near right, I 
would be surprised.
Our parents  or most of them, at 
least  cant understand a world where 
it is allowable, acceptable, and even nor
mal to go out every Friday and Saturday
night (and whenever else you can get 
away with it...) and get raging drunk 
to release tension, or just to have a 
good time. They cannot understand a 
world where the media has the ability 
to bring you every plane crash, every 
train wreck, every political scandal, 
and shove it in your face, all in full 
stereo. Our parents cant understand
a place where everything is faster, big
ger, and, it would seem, meaner; a world 
where rain is acid and sex is death. 
That my lists are correct is not that 
important  they were only examples, 
not an inclusive sample. The important 
thingisthattheideas which demarcated 
our parents world are gone, and exert 
very little immediate influence over our
present world. The influence of any old 
ideas comes from the fact that the people 
who run this country are in that group, 
and their minds are still, for the most 
part, delimited by those old ideals. We 
are ruled by people who are not fully in 
touch with us, with the present.
Bush is suddenly the environmental 
presidentat least in public speech  
because the people who elected him 
thought it was important. Dominos 
sales are hurting because many college 
students dont like its contributions to 
Operation Rescue. My parents are an
gry because Im only getting at 3.00, 
because I spend too much time being 
drunk, or talking, or playing Tetris in 
The Tartan office.
My parents generation may not un
derstand us, but they do try. This 
summer,Time ran a big front-page fea
ture called Twentysomethings  
thats us, brothers and sisters  and 
detailed how we are listless, shiftless, 
and without direction. They seemed 
rather underimpressed, annoyed at th e 
fact that we lacked their solid ideals 
and upbringing.
Those old folks seemed annoyed that 
Please see GENERATION on page 9
Its now time to bring out the environmentalist in everyone
Acid rain. Air pollution. The 
greenhouse effect. Water pollu
tion. Depletion of the ozone 
layer. Tropical deforestation. 
Hazardous waste. Desertifica
tion. Overcrowded landfills. All 
of these environmental prob
lems have three things in com
mon: All affect our everyday life; 
all are growing from bad to 
worse; and all can be remedied 
by the general public.
Yes, thats right. We, the gen
eral public, the voters and tax
payers of this nation, can solve 
these problems. We must solve
Jeffrey Woodford
these problems.
For it is because of us, indi
rectly, that we have these envi
ronmental dilemmas. We, as con
sumers, support the deforestation 
of the tropical rain forests by 
buyingtropical woods such as teak 
and mahogany. We encourage the
overflowing of landfills by throw
ing away our newspapers and our 
soda cans and our milk jugs in
stead of recycling them. We have 
radioactive waste because we 
consumers demand cheaper elec
tricity.
Of course we have no evil in
tention s toward this planet. There 
is no malice involved when we fill 
the skies with smoke. We look for 
the shortcuts, the short-term so
lutions to long term problems. 
The cheapest and easiest way to 
dispose of urban waste is to dump 
it into the ground. However, as
we now know, this method is not 
the best method.
What we need to do is to find the 
best method. We need to find the 
long-term solutions to the long
term problems, instead of always 
looking for the quick fix rem
edy. We need to place greater em
phasis on what is best for the 
environment instead of what is 
cheapest.
Unfortunately for us, though, 
long-term solutions usually take 
long-term commitments and (es
pecially in the case of environ
mentalism) money. A fluorescent
bulb costs more than an incandescentone; an incineration plant 
or a recycling plant costs more 
than a landfill; solar power costs 
more than oil- or coal-based power. 
But we need to do it. We need to 
make that commitment, for the 
betterment of all of humanity. We 
need to start our own personal 
recycling system;we need to turn 
out the light when we step out of 
the room; in short, we need to be 
more active when it comes to 
helping out the environment. If 
nothing else, we must write our 
Senators and Representatives in
Washington, D.C. to tell them 
how we feel about the environ
ment and to introduce legisla
tion in Congress to try to curtail 
these grave environmental 
probl em s. For th e past two h un - 
dred years, during the Indus
trial Revolution, we have been 
trashing our Earth, our common 
home.
Now it is time to clean our
Jeffrey Woodford is a freshman chemistry major. This is his first column for The Tartan.
HIGH HOLY DAY SERVICES
ROSH HASHANAH
Erev Rosli Hashanah Dinner Wednesday Sept 19,6:00 PM
Egalitarian Conservative Evening Service Wednesday Sept 18,8:00 PM
Egalitarian Conservative Morning Service Thursday Sept 20,9:00 AM
Worm Morning Service Thursday Sept 20,10:00 AM
Egalitarian Conservative Morning Service frlday Sept 21,9:00 AM
Biial B'rtth Hlllel 
Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Onion 
Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Onion 
Kurtzman Rm, Wm. Pitt Union 
Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union
Kiddush will follow the morning services.
All services are sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel and are open to all members of the university 
community. The services are held in the William Pitt Union located at the comer of Fifth Avenue 
and Bigelow Boulevard. Students will be meeting in front of Skibo 1/2 hour before services and 
walking over to the William Pitt Union. For additional information about home hospitality, 
schedule of services in local congregations, or to make a dinner reservation call 621-8875.
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL IS YOUR 
JEWISH CONNECTION ON CAMPUS
Optical
A New Discount
For CMU Students, Faculty, & Staff
The 23-Checkpoint Eye Exam:
Our computerized eye exam provides a detailed optometric profile. 
The result...confidence in vision for you.
In-House Laboratories:
One hour service is available from our in-house laboratories, and 
you get Dalmos assurance of the highest quality and accuracy in 
the industry
The New Vision - In Frames and Contacts:
Selection. Its the first thing that meets the eye at every Dalmo 
Optical Center. From bold colors and sophisticated profiles in 
frames to Extended Wear, Gas Permeable and Dispoable Contacts, 
Dalmo has it all!
Guaranteed Lowest Price:
The finest designs fromEurope...the best designs in 
America...Dalmo has them all for the guaranteed lowest price.
Dr. B.H. Grossman, 
Director
Squirrel Hill 
5824 Forbes 
Ave. 
521-2100

---------------------------------------------------

klum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyi
Meet the newest threat to world peace
With strong and solid support 
for George Bush during the Per
sian Gulf crisis  a nearly 80 
percent backing from Americans
 and an encouraging confirma
tion of support from the United 
Nations by way of economic 
sanctions and an embargo, plus a 
security council vote in support of 
military force to enforce the em
bargo, it seems that nothing 
should be able to deter President 
Bush from going forward with 
what most certainly should be 
done, and that is a powerful 
military offensive against Iraqs 
Saddam Hussein.
However, there is one enemy 
which can and will thwart any 
military action against Iraq  it 
isnt the Iraqi army either  and 
the answer is time. The invasion 
of Kuwait on August 2 and the 
mobilization of U.S. troops nearly
4 weeks later is, for all intents, 
already prolonged and bound to 
become more of a problem as time 
lags on. Simply put, the Arab 
world will not tolerate our pres
ence, not to mention the fact that 
our stay in Saudi Arabia will run 
into the billions, that is, without 
conflict. In addition, the aforeJ7
David Schwartz
mentioned 80 percent backing by 
the American people will most 
likely not hold 3-6 months down 
the road or, for that matter, sev
eral years.
11 i s n o w cl ear th at Ge orge Bush 
is coming to the crossroads of 
political do-or-die. On the one 
hand, once our capacity for an 
effective military strike against 
Iraqi forces is in place in Saudi 
Arabia, will George Bush do what 
is desperately needed, that is, 
eradicate Saddam Hussein? Or 
will we dawdle and expect an 
embargo to do the job? To be sure, 
we must realize that a diplo
matic answer or response is ut
terly nonsensical if not patheti
cally stupid in its naivete. Can 
the world expect Hussein to sim
ply pull outhis troops from Kuwait 
and return to Iraq in embarrass
ment? Hussein knows full well 
that by returning to Iraq is tan
tamount to retreat and that would 
definitely not sit well with mili
tant Palestinians, Yemenites, 
Jordanians, plus the PLO headed 
by Yasser Arafat, which, along 
with Libya voted in support of 
Hussein at the last emergency 
meeting of the Arab League. Of 
course this is not to mention the 
statement made by Hussein de
claring that historically Kuwait 
was a part of Iraq thus justifying 
his declared annexation of what 
was and legally still is the sover
eign nation of Kuwait.
But if Hussein does choose to 
pull out of Kuwait, are we going to 
accept an unjustified condition to 
bring about a settlement, namely 
the installation of Iraqi military 
bases in key islands and ports in 
the Persian Gulf area? I think 
not. Hussein, if in pursuing that 
option, will thus create a new 
status quo that in no way should 
be regarded as realistic, accept
able, or logical for the region or 
the rest of the world. So President 
Bush must act decisively in this 
hour of crisis.
Now what kind of individual 
are we dealing with in Iraq? How 
dangerous is Saddam Hussein? 
To be blunt, the answer is damn 
dangerous. If an individual as
invidious as Hussein can slaugh
ter thousands of members of the 
Kurdish minority by using 
chemical weapons, along with 
using chemical weapons against 
thousands of Iranians during its 
eight-year war with Iran, what is 
supposed to make the rest of the 
region feel safe? Hussein has al
ready pledged to scorch half of 
Israel with chemical weapons, and 
he does have the capability to do 
so since he has acquired Sovietmade SCUD medium-range mis
siles. Are we starting to feel a bit 
jittery? We should. Remember 
when Israel destroyed the Iraqi 
nuclear reactor in 1981? At that 
point, Iraq was on the verge of a 
veritable nuclear arsenal. Nine 
years later, experts predict that 
Iraq will once again near the 
completion of a nuclear reactor 
and hence, the capability of producingnuclear armaments. Bush 
must take the vanguard militar
ily or the world will pay dearly for 
its seemingly indifferent attitude 
toward the worlds newest men
ace, Saddam Hussein.
David Schwartz is a sophomore economics major.
'IF THE ENVIRONMENTALISTS GET THEIR WAY, 
THERE WON'T BE ANY TREES LEFT TO CUT'
uw*.jr. eart r*/r-DUYA7s*+
(Herblock is on vacation)
Overlooked factors produced an "historical amnesia" about JFK
continued from page 6
pose: to serve and protect the in
terests of major U.S. (now multi
national) corporations and their 
oligarchy of principle sharehold
ers. Such is the burden of the 
Great White West.
And such is the legacy embraced 
by John F. Kennedy who, at the 
time of his presidential election, 
had already established himself 
as a willing participant in the 
U.S. effort to achieve and sustain 
global political, military, and 
economic hegemony  a gesture 
revitalized in the Marshall Plans 
commitment to what former Sec
retary of State Dean Acheson 
called a policy of relief and re
construction [designed] chiefly as 
a matter of national self-inter
est.
By 1952, U.S. foreign aid had 
sky-rocketed, with more than $45 
billion going toward the build up 
of military power in non-socialist 
countries (only $5 billion was ear
marked for non-military aid). As 
Howard Zinn notes in Postwar America: 1945-1971, by the end 
of the 50s, the U.S. was spending 
nearly $40 billion dollars a year 
on weapon systems alone, twothirds of the money going to
twelve or fifteen industrial gi
ants. Nearly 85 percent of fed
eral defense contacts went to non
competitive single supplier ne
gotiators  mega-corporations 
in the production on the soaring 
defense budgets which specialized 
in the production of military 
hardware. (Such hardware in
cluded specialized military air
craft flown out of the Canal Zone 
during the60s by the U.S. for the 
purposes of dropping napalm on 
small villages in Eastern Guate
mala.)
Following in the bootsteps of 
his post-war predecessors,
Kennedy happily approved tens 
of millions of dollars in military 
aid to right-wing Latin American 
dictatorships  regimes that co
operated with the U.S. govern
ment in any way possible to 
thwart, destabilize, terrorize, 
imprison, and murder political 
opposition. Kennedy authorized 
continued CIA activities aimed at 
undermining the stability of 
countries and organizations 
which refused to play by U.S. 
rules. The launching of a secret 
invasion of Cuba through 
Kennedys approval represented 
a deliberate defiance of Article 15
of the Charter of the Organiza
tion of American States signed by 
the U.S. government in 1948. But 
the Bay of Pigs fiasco only made 
obvious what government offi
cials had long since agreed upon: 
a foreign policy predicated on 
preserving the influence and in
terests of U.S. corporate capital
ism.
So lets dispense with the 
simple-minded celebrations of old 
glory and JFK, and get on with 
the business of a more productive 
commitment to socio-political 
analysis. One would think that 
such analyses begin with a mar
ginal familiarity with the circum. 
stances and events that mark U.S 
history, their relations to effects 
upon other peoples, nations, eth 
nic groups, communities, and 
political movements around tty 
world.
Consequently, only by means o 
a self-serving historical amnesi: 
does it become possible to imig 
ine the utopian future Mr 
Bourdius so enthusiastically her 
aids.
Patryk Silver 
Graduate, Literary and Cul 
tural Theory
-------YOUNG --------
Fedralposcu
SEPTEMBER MEETING
September 11 - 6:30 pm, Rivers Club, One Oxford Centre
Guest Speaker:Dean Davis Bobrow, Graduate School of Public and International Affairs, University of 
Pittsburgh
Topic: Current Status of Affairs in the Middle East
I
An Invitation to Membership
with Young Republicans of Alleghany County  Joseph P. Waldholtz - Chairman
NAME:BIRTHDAY:
HOME ADDRESS:. 
CITY___________STATEZIP
BUSINESS ADDRESS:, 
CITY______________STATEZIP
HOME PHONE:. 
OCCUPATION
. BUSINESS PHONE: _
_SCHOOL (If student): _
1 VOTER REGISTRATION 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
(Township/Borough) (District) (Ward)
Current Republican Activities:
? GOP Committee ? Candidate Club ? Campaign Volunteer
? Campaign Staff ? Elected Official Staff O Other
Current Community Activities:_______________________________________________________
Young Republican Committees on which you would like to serve (or on which you 
would like information): ? Finance ? Public Relations ? Program ? Membership 
? Political ? Constitution ? Newsletter
Will you volunteer on political campaigns? ? Yes ? No
Do you wish to run for elected office? ? Yes 0 No ? Maybe
IfYes: Which Office____________________________________When____________
Do you have a regular commitment which would prevent you from attending our 
monthly meeting (first Tuesday of each month)? ? Yes ? No
How long is this commitment?_____________________
Suggested speakers for our Meetings:_______________________________________
Suggestions for YR Events, Functions: _
For further membership information, call the Young Republicans at 261-YRAC.
Young Republicans of Alleghany County 
Please mail application to: Box 115
Westin William Penn Hotel 
Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Signature: __Date_

---------------------------------------------------

lum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyiy
eftovers from construction can 
hurt those who live in the area
Susan Abrams
I think its time we did some
thing about the construction still 
ling on at CMU.
When I came here as a freshan last year, I expected the 
campus to be beautiful and in
viting. Instead, construction 
crews had just begun to break 
ground for the new dormitory, 
parking lot, and stadium, leaving i rather bad sight to visitors.
; And as of yet, not everything 
which was torn apart earlier has 
teen completely patched up. 
i This past year, I watched as the 
fiew dorm, parking lot, and sta
dium began as bits and pieces of 
(Just, and rose to the exemplary 
Structures they are now. I had a 
perfect view from the fourth floor 
fcif Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
pall, where I worked every after
noon in the Architecture Depart
ment this summer.
: The people I worked with all 
agi^ed that the new facilities did 
indged look better with each
passing day, but the only thing 
that hindered their beauty (and 
that of the campus as a whole) 
was the mess from the construc
tion companies behind both MargaretMorrison and Donner Halls.
Sure, I understand that con
struction had to be halted several 
times due to inclement weather
 thats one of the reasons why 
the new dorm was not completed 
lastyear, as we were told it would 
be. But when are they going to 
get it done, once and for all?
I think weve waited long 
enough.
I dont mind it all that much. It 
would be nice, however, if when 
my friends from home came to 
visit that they didnt have to see 
all the mess the construction 
people make.
Im afraid that someday one of 
a multitude of bad (or at least 
embarrassing) things could hap
pen to one of us because of the 
construction. For instance, you 
could trip over a wire or a piece of 
wood. Or you mightstep in what 
was once a mound of dirt, but, 
given the weather conditions here, 
it will most likely be mud.
Not a pretty sight, is it?
What about the driveway 
around the fountain behind 
Morewood Gardens? Does any
one intend to take responsibility 
for that? Theres a big pile of 
bricks right there, out in the 
open. Someone could throw one 
of the stray bricks through 
anybodys window. Or perhaps 
they may end up being used as a 
nabbing device by people who are 
out to harm others.
Its rather difficult explaining 
to unknowing people what num
ber four on the Top Ten Reasons 
To Go To CMU T-shirt means 
(which, by the way, says, Be
cause I like living in a hard hat 
area.). They just dont get it.
And frankly, I dont think I do, 
either.
But who in their right mind 
would want to live in a hard hat 
area? Its unsafe, unsanitary, and, 
in my opinion, unnecessary on 
this campus.
Susan Abrams is a sophomore professional writing major. She is sincerely concerned about everyones safety, especially those who are as helplessly clumsy as she is.
'WELCOME TO YOUR NEW JOBS 
WITH THE IRAQI DEFENSE DEPARTMENT1
r. Coins porr-Diifc-TcH
Generation 
gap hard 
to cross
GENERATION from page 7
we arent going to be yuppies, 
that we might hold opinions dif
ferent from theirs, and that 
maybe, justmaybe, we will change 
what they have worked so long 
and hard to build.
But, hey, the last generation or 
two never impressed me much 
either. The idea of money for 
moneys sake is not my idea of an 
all-embracing philosophy  I 
dont know. It seems to lack the 
ideals, the mental content, that 
many people remember from the 
sixties.
Personally, any generation that 
could see Ivan Boesky as a hero 
and insider trading as a legiti
mate pastime, doesnt impressme 
too much.
Sorry, old people, but the times 
they are a ... well, they have a 
changed.
Don Pickett is a sophomore creative writing major. He is always trying to vault the generation gap, or at least when asking his parents for a car.
National media enjoys Bush bashing
IT.S. Blass
TA'mini-controversy, of sorts, has 
arfs'en since the crisis in the 
Middle East began four weeks 
ago. The combatants, the press 
an d President Bush, seem to have 
finally broken their honeymoon.
The medias kid-gloves came off 
for good when the President said 
that tax revenue increases would 
be necessary in order to fight the 
budget deficit, so they are not 
pbeing kind.
The vital issue of remains: Why 
is President Bush on vacation 
when the Middle East is a pot 
foiling over with trouble?
The brouhaha has taken valu
able airwave time away from 
more pressing issues (remember 
the savings and loan scandal, the 
mdget battle, and the NASA fisco) over a ridiculous quibble 
rith the Presidents style of manigement.
The Presidents opponentshave 
seized the opportunity to begin a 
'bash-Bush campaign in order to 
lower the high approval rating 
The Bush presidency has care
fully and judiciously amassed. The 
media has focused its scorn on 
one of the men who has truly been 
a full participant in the foreign 
policy arena, even before the 
present situation arose.
I do not find that this sort of 
partisan politics should arrive into 
the living rooms of the American 
public each evening. The empha
sis appears to be wrongly focused 
on the President's vacation in 
this time of trouble instead of the 
grave state of affairs going on in 
our country and around the world.
I would much prefer hearing 
about the anniversary of the 
Tiennaman Square massacre to 
find out how the student popula
tion has reacted to the govern
ment crackdown. Instead, I hear 
late breakingne ws that theBush 
administration is suffering from 
a public relations problem with 
the American people. Find me a 
seat  that one was way too
Bush hardly has 
time to do those 
30-second blurbs 
of vacationing 
that show up on 
the news. 
shocking. Where are the in-depth 
reporters that Woodward and 
Bernstein could take pride in?
John Sununu, Bushs chief of 
staff, expressed his sympathy of 
this columnist when he retorted, 
This is a do-something adminis
tration and not a good PR firm.
Good show! Have we forgotten 
what kind of age we live in? 
Computers, cellular telephones, 
fax machines, telexes, cordless 
telephones, and conference calls 
are all symbols of the Informa
tion Age.
Being the President of the 
United States has certain re
sponsibilities, but it also has a 
great deal of advantages that
come along with the office.
Wherever he goes, Bush has a 
media center surrounding him, 
givingandreceivingmessages and 
communiques from world leaders 
as well as ambassadors abroad. 
Of course, this fact never finds its 
way on the television news. If the 
journalists would simply take a 
step back, he or she would see the 
situation with more clarity.
Not only would these journal
ists realize that Bush has con
stantly been in touch with world 
leaders, but they would also see 
that he really has had time for 
very little vacationing. What with 
daily press grillings, security 
meetings, and calls to foreign 
leaders, Bushhardly has time to 
be doing those 30-second blurbs 
of vacationing that show up on 
the news.
Lets hope the trend dies here 
and the media will finally tear 
itself away from this nonsense to 
report some intelligent news.
T.S. Blass is a sophomore 1M major. This is his first column for The Tartan.
MaaTH M9TsxqRent Now & Receive One Months Free Rent.
/X'i)What a Wise Move!
Eff. & 1-Bedroom Apts.
Fu rnished, Air Conditioned
Start at $375 
All Utils. Incl.
Located at 549 N. Neville
5 Min. Walk to Skibo Hall
w ~ 'V- Off-Street Parking Available
PLEASE CALL PRUDENTIAL REALITY COMPANY 
261-6500
Take Back 
The Earth!
WORK WITH
CLEAN WATER ACTION
Help Change the Course of Environmental Politics$7-$12 hour
Call: (412) 765-3053
Parking  University Center  Greeks  Student Involvment  Student Senate 
\thletic Facilities  Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health  Banking 
Politics  Funding  Football Field  Student Affairs  Constitution  Construction 
Dvercrowding  Contras  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Gymnasium  Dining 
Service  Environment  Recycling  Exercise  Congress  Middle East  Weathei 
Advising  Sex  Geeks # Alcohol  Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy 
iVood^Allen  The Muppets 0 Mail  Manure  Advertising  Disco  Crime  All 
^igh^B^rant's Sex Life * Ishtar II  Hair  Mousse  Human Relations  SEI 
Presii 
'/olu 
ousil 
Recycj___
ay
\llen^^undin^T5uudentTairs  Mayoruonstrucl 
ing  Constitution  Activities Board  Gymnasium  Housing  Sororities  Charities 
Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Congress  Club Sports  Middle East 
Weather  Advising  Crime  Sex  Geeks  Corruption  Violence  Alcohol  Drugs
Letters to the Editor  Deadline Friday 5 pm 
Skibo 50
Do your parents
MISS YOU?
Send 'em a subscription to one of 
the 
best college newspapers in the 
country!
Call Tartan Business Manager Frank DIVito 
at X2111 to arrange a subscription.
THE TARTAN
NORMAL VOLUNTEERS 
Male subjects in good health between ages 
18-45 are needed for a study testing a new 
eye medication.
Earn $150 
Conducted by The Eye & Ear Institute 
of Pittsburgh 
For more information call 647-7647
ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISE LINE IN HOUSE PRODUCTIONS
Auditions
FOR OUR OWN PRODUCTION REVUE SHOWS
Director, Lenore SanAngelo
 Strong Male and Female Singers 
who dance well
 Strong Male and Female 
Dancers who sing well
 Strong Male and Female 
Dancers
 Adagio Teams
September 17
PITTSBURGH
Point Part? College
201 Wood St.
Lawrence Hall 
Dance Studio 104 
12 Noon - Females
2 PM - Males
3 PM - Adagio Teams
We are looking for exceptionally talented performers 
for several casts.
All those auditioning must bring: dance clothes, photo, 
bio. and sheet music - one up tempo and one ballad 
Experienced professionals only.
Piano accompanist provided.
No variety acts, cabaret acts or musicians will be auditioned. 
Miami Rehearsals. Six month contracts.
Entertainment Dept.. 1007 North America Way. Miami. Fla. 33132 USA
^ROm CARIBBEAN
ALASKA  EUROPE  CARIBBEAN  MEXICO  BERMUDA
The latest looks for him and her. Soft and shaped. Updated. Now. Cuts that move with body and volume. Sophisticated style from our experts.
____________________237 Atwood St. 687-3500
Across the street from the Oakland Post Office
r  ""nnn I
EXPECTATIONS
GET WHAT YOU EXPECT
Mon-Fri 10-7 
Sat 9-6
$2.00 Off
I On a Precision Haircut I(complete with wash & style)
I Expires 9/30/90 I 
L ^US^HAVE COUPON. J
Free Hair Consultation 
Also Available:
 Perms  Frosting
 Conditioning  Coloring 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
I NEED A 
SURVIVAL 
GAME... 
BAD!
THREE 
RIVERS 
SURVIVAL 
GAME 
CALL 935-6100
 FRAT PARTIES
 BIRTHDAYS
 GIFT CERTIFICATES
Come join us... be a volunteer
United Way of Allegheny County
Volunteer Action Center 
394-5380

---------------------------------------------------

nsher takes f I .  m~ ' Volleyball enduresvolleyballs (a  - /  .top spot m I tough first week
rived on campus for the two-day 
Carnegie Mellon Tournament. 
The tournament began with poo] 
play to determine the top six 
teams to make the playoffs (out of 
a pool of four teams, the top t\yo 
teams make the playoffs). CMUs 
total game record finished at 2-5, 
not good enough to make the 
playoffs.
The first match was a lose 
contest against Westminster. 
According to Fisher, Carnegie 
Mellon was in control of the ma
jority of the first game, but lost 
concentration and lfet 
Westminster get close. But the 
Tartans outlasted Westminster 
in the end and won 1510.
The Tartans loss of concentra
tion continued and cost them the 
second game 10-15. The third 
and deciding game was"t'he 
tightest, with CMU coming-out 
on top 16-14. For Fisher7~ihe 
match was a nice match to win."
The next match was against 
Seton Hill, who eventually won 
the tournament. Carnegie Mellon 
lost in straight games: 7-15,10- 
15. Worse still, sophomore Lisa 
Leonardo, a starting middle hit
ter hurt her ankle at 9-13 in the 
second game. Leonardo will be 
out indefinitely.
Fisher described Leonardos in
jury, a second degree sprain as a 
Please see VOLLEYBALL, page 12
Duquesne 
disappoints 
womens 
tennis
By KATIE CULBERTSONTartan Sports Editor
Facing Duquesne University in 
its first match of the season, the 
womens tennis team found out it 
had a long season and a lot of 
work ahead of it.
Carnegie Mellon won only two 
matches Wednesday: number sjx 
singles player freshman Whitney 
Weber and the number three 
doubles team of Weber and junior 
Sylvia Candia pulled out CMUs 
two wins. Weber won 6-3, 62, 
and Weber and Candia won 10-6.
In singles action, the Tartans 
number one player, senior Mary 
Beth Ashbaugh suffered a 6-4,6-
2 loss to Duquesnes Lynne 
Kolback.
In doubles, Ashbaugh and part
ner senior Alice Garber were 
edged out by Salina Vargo and 
Val Feretti of Duquesne, 11-1;0, 
with a 7-5 tiebreaker score. And 
that was about as close as any of 
the matches ever came, as 
Duquesne breezed to a 7-2 vic
tory.
Wednesdays singles roster in
cluded Garber in the second po
sition, sophomore Laura Ahr -at 
the third spot, and junior Jenni 
Borque, Candia and Weber 
rounding out the finals three 
spots. Ahr and Borque teamed pp 
for number two doubles.
As if a shaky season start wasnt 
enough, the team must also ac
custom itself to a new coach. Pe
ter Moss was appointed by the 
athletic department to head the 
mens and womens teams at 
CMU.
Moss said that although the 
team is disappointed by the los, 
it is optimistic about future 
matches, particularly because o! 
the range of depth on the teamMoss was pleased with the turn
out of 14 women for the team.; J 
hope to keep them all together, 
he said.
Moss would like to concentrate 
now on assembling cohesive 
doubles teams who play well to
gether.
Please see TENNIS, page;!3
By ALIM RAYTartan Senior Staffwriter
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Contributing Editor 
Freshman Jennifer New takes it to the net Friday as the Tartans hosted 
12 teams in the Carnegie Mellon Tournament. CMU failed to make the 
tournaments playoff round on Saturday.
New womens volleyball head 
coach Charlotte Fisher had a 
much more trying week than she 
had wanted.
To start the week, a match 
scheduled against St. Vincent for 
Tuesday was reduced to a scrim
mage, her team lost two matches 
to Carlow and Waynesburg Col
leges on Wednesday, and CMU 
was eliminated in the first round 
of its own tournament Friday and 
Saturday.
The problems began Tuesday 
when St. Vincent College arrived 
in Thistle Hall without the proper 
uniforms. Believing that 
Tuesdays contest was just a 
scrimmage, St. Vincent showed 
up dressed to scrimmage.
The Lady Tartans, however, 
were prepared for their first match 
of the season. The confusion had 
arisen because the old CMU head 
coach and the St. Vincent head 
coach had agreed to make 
Tuesdays match a scrimmage, 
and somehow this information 
had not gotten to Fisher.
Things did not improve 
Wednesday when Carnegie 
Mellon lost both its matches 
against Carlow and Waynesburg 
colleges.
Friday afternoon, 12 teams arby Dan Erhard
Dont put money 
on the Bucs yet
Dont do it. I know you want 
to, but dont do it yet.
So what if Pittsburgh swept 
the Mets in three straight  
the season isnt over yet. So 
please dont rub it in to your 
neighborhood Met fan just yet.
How soon we forget when Ray 
Knight hit a sure ground out to 
Boston first baseman Bill 
Buckner to assure the Mets of a 
World Series loss just a few 
short years ago.
I was so intoxicated... with 
delight that the Mets  the 
abhorred, aggravating, annoy
ing, arrogant New York Mets 
were going to lose the 86 Series 
that I thought I was going to 
pass out.
And then I learned that 
happiness with the Mets failure 
is but a fleeting feeling.
Knights grounder rolled freely 
through Buckners legs and the 
rest of the Series was history.
But, for the Pirate faithful, I 
offer some good reasons why 
they will be NL East champi
ons.
Hitting: Jim Leylands 
Pirates are really hitting on all 
cylinders right now. After 
sweeping the Mets in a threegame series at home for the first 
time since 1978, they have the 
confidence and poise to main
tain their lead, and even build 
on it.
Pitching: Doug Drabek has 
been awesome. The National 
League Pitcher of the Month for 
August is now 18-5 with an , 
earned run average of 2.69, and 
has the inside track to the NL 
Cy Young award.
Since being acquired from the 
Montreal Expos, Zane Smith 
has been nothing short of 
excellent. He has a 40 record 
with an ERA of 1.85 as a Pirate, 
and the lefthander baffled the 
Mets with a one-hitter in the 
first game of their twi-night 
doubleheader. Said teammate 
Bob Kipper, Zane pitched the 
best game Ive ever seen.
Role players: Whether its 
Jeff King whacking the long ball 
against the Mets or Jay Bell 
laying down bunts at a record 
pace, they have been very 
consistent throughout the year.
Jose Lind: It doesnt matter 
that his stick has been dormant 
of late. He is the best second 
baseman in baseball hands 
down. Yeah, that includes Ryne 
Sandberg.
The Big Boys: Barry Bonds 
and Bobby Bonilla. These two 
guys have been swinging their 
sticks at MVP paces. They are 
by far the two best players in 
the NL, and I just hope that 
team president Carl Barger 
remembers that when it comes 
to negotiating contracts at the 
conclusion of this season.Jim Leyland: The Skipper 
has juggled his pitching staff 
remarkably. With injuries to 
former All-Star Bob Walk and 
lefty John Smiley, Leyland 
brought up minor leaguers like 
Randy Tomlin and Mike York 
and produced.
His confidence in Sid Bream 
after El Sid suffered through 
major knee operations last year 
has produced 58 RBIs and a 
possible Gold Glove at first 
base.
They will not lie down and let 
the Bucs run away with it. The 
Bucs have the defense to play 
the hard ball, they just have to 
have the aggressiveness to dig 
in at the box, brandish their 
sticks, and whack it.Dan Erhard is a sophomore professional writing student.
By KATIE CULBERTSONTartan Sports Editor
When last years head volley
ball coach resigned, the CMU 
athletic department had its work 
cut out for it. Already on its 
search list was a new mens bas
ketball coach and a mens and 
womens tennis coach.
Sue Flahertys departure to 
coach at Clarion University of 
Pennsylvania left a hole in the in 
coaching staff, which was soon 
filled by the arrival of Charlotte 
Fisher.
Fisher comes to CMU with a 
long history of volleyball behind 
her, as well as with a recommen
dation from former coach 
Flaherty.
A former assistant coach at 
Plum High School (1988) and 
Penn State-McKeesport (1989), 
Fisher is a 1981 graduate of 
Norwin High School, where she 
led her team to three WPIAL AAA 
and Pennsylvania State AAA 
Championships (79, 80, 81). As 
a senior, she was voted All-State.
According to Bruce Gerson, 
sports information director, 
Norwin High School has a rich 
volleyball tradition, as well as 
several state championships.
Fisher went on to Eastern Ken
tucky University on a volleyball
Please see FISHER, page 13
The completion of Gesling Stadium has brought CMU athletics back to campus.
kick off stadium
zdm hope the whole Carnegie Mellon 
community will join together on Sep
tember 15 to celebrate this achieve
ment and the first home game of the 
new football season. 
P Dave Maloney; VP for development
Football
By JASON McDONALDTartan Assistant Sports Editor
Even though the official open
ing ceremonies wont be held un
til the football teams home opener 
on September 15, Carnegie 
Mellons new stadium was offi
cially named last Thursday.
The Tartans home field was 
named Gesling Stadium, in honor 
of William J. Gesling, who donated 
$2 million to the construction of 
the new stadium. Gesling, a 1932 
mechanical engineering graduate 
of Carnegie Tech, will be present 
for the official opening along with 
more than 160 Carnegie Mellon 
and Carnegie Tech football 
alumni.
The commitment and support 
of Bill Gesling, along with many 
other Carnegie Mellon alumni, 
staff, volunteers, and friends,
game to
made the new stadium and the 
entire East Campus Project pos
sible, said David Maloney, 
Carnegie Mellons Carnegie 
Mellons Vice-President for De
velopment. We hope the whole 
Carnegie Mellon community will 
join together on September 15 to 
celebrate this achievement and 
the first home game of the new 
football season.
The new stadium was far from 
Geslings first philanthropic ef
fort. The Ohio-based Gesling 
company has helped to build over 
500 public schools and churches, 
and has also worked on buildings 
at numerous Ohio colleges and 
universities. Gesling is also the 
founder of the Trails End Foun
dation, an organization that pro
vides scholarships for hundreds 
of college students.
In addition to his enthusiasm
for football, Gesling was also the 
captain of the tennis team and 
student manager of the cross 
country squad during his time at 
Carnegie Tech.
The planned celebration also 
includes a concert by CMU stu
dent Billy Price and his band, as 
well as East Campus tours for 
football alumni, many of whom
made contributions to the locker 
rooms and other support facilities.
Despite the attempts of 
Carnegie Mellon officials to keep 
the name secret until the opening, 
the name was visible on the press 
box many times during the sum
mer. The resulting leak to the 
public made any further secrecy 
unnecessary.

---------------------------------------------------

lum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyigg
win/ i arcan >ian
junior Carolyn Lowe cruises to a first place finish in Saturday's run 
against Robert Morris College in Schenley Park.
By DAN HOLLANDTartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon mens 
cross country team won its 106th 
straight dual meet in Schenley 
Park against Duquesne in typical 
fashion. With a perfect score of 
15, the Tartans put nine runners 
in front of the first Duquesne 
runner.
The times improved substan
tially, too; the 4.9-mile race was 
led by junior John Frieder in
...we dont have the same talent or 
depth that we have had in the past. K 
P Coach Gary Meckley
26:27, a 20-second improvement 
over last weeks race. Frieder was 
also named the UAA athlete of 
the week for his victory last week
end.
I felt really strong and smooth
in this race, he said.
The cool and dry weather was a 
big factor as well. This was a 
good day for running, Frieder 
said after the race.
Following Frieder was freshThis semester, take some electives in communications.
Introducing AT&T 
Student Saver Plus.
This year itll be easier to get through college. Because AT&T has put together a 
program or products and services that can save you money. Whether you live on 
or off campus.
60 minutes of 
longdistance.
For free.
Movies. Videos.
And more.
For less.
Just by choosing any Student Saver Plus program, youll get up to 60 minutes of free long 
distance calls. Youll also get a free coupon booklet good for savings all 
around
Gabrielle Kreisler  Skidmore College * Class of 1991
'You dont need 
to wait till spring 
to get a break.
With the AT&T Reach Out9 America Plan', youll get savings 
24 hours a day 7 days a week. Including 25% off 
our already low evening prices
.. 
Call from 
anywhere to 
anywhere.
Well give you a free AT&T Calling Card, even if you dont have a phone. So youll be able to make a call from almost any phone and have it billed to you, wherever you live.
Keep your
roommates
inline.
Well separate your long distance 
calls from your roommates calls with AT&T Call Manager. 
And well do it for free
To enroll in the AT&T Student Saver 
Plus programs that are right for you, or to 
get the best value in long distance service, 
call us. They just might be the most 
profitable electives youll ever take.
1800 654-0471 Ext. 1230 
XI&T. Helping make 
college life a little easier.
AT&T
The right choice.
This service may not be available in residence halls on your campus. 
Discount applies to out-of-state calls direct-dialed 5-10 pm, Sunday-Friday. 1990 AI8T
man David White, posting an 
impressive 30-second improve
ment, finishing in 25:45. Senior 
Dan Holland, who improved his 
time by a 20-second margin, came 
in third in 26:55.
Senior Gary Harrison placed, 
fourth in 26:59, while freshman 
Ryan White completed the top 
five with a time of 27:03. Junior 
John Byrnes shaved over a min
ute off his previous time by run
ning 27:12 as he took sixth. So
phomore Scott Philips completed 
the top seven close behind with a 
time of 27:17, also a significant 
improvement.
Coach Gary Meckley was 
pleased with his runners per
formance. We have a team of 
hard workers, he said. That will 
be a trait that the team will need 
over the course of the season.
Next weeks meet at Allegheny 
College will be a challenge. I think 
we can do very well there, he said 
optimistically. Realistically, we 
dont have the same talent or 
depth that we have had in the 
past.
Meckley likes to eye the meets 
at the end of the year because 
those are the most important. At 
this point in time, we could hope 
to finish fifth at the regional meet, 
he added.
But Meckley knows that the 
season is long and his runners 
will continue to improve over the 
weeks. If today is an indication 
of how much we can improve over 
one week, Id like to see our team 
keep this up.
RESEARCH PAPERS
18,500 to choose from - nil subjects 
Order Cnialog Today with Visa/MC or COD
800-351-0222
In Calif. (213) .177-8226 
Or, rush $2.00 to: Research Assistance 
11322 Idaho Ave. 206-SN Los Angeles, CA 90025 
Custon research available- all levels
HELP WANTED
1. Would you like to work for yourself?
2. Would you like to set your own hours?
3. Arc you sclf-motivalcd?
4. Arc you a bit of an cnircpcncur?
If you answered YES to all of the above, you arc 
just the person were looking for! As an Ameri
can Passage Campus Representative, you will 
be responsible for placing advertising on bulletin 
boards. You will also have the opportunity to 
work on marketing programs for such clients as 
American Express, Ford, and Bosion University. 
There arc nosalcs involved. Many of our reps slay 
with us long after graduation. For more informa
tion, call or write us at the following address:
AMERICAN PASSAGE 
NETWORK 
1-800-727-6783
215 West Harrison___________
US. DEPARTMENT OF STATE 
US. INFORMATION AGENCY 
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Career Opportunity
THE FOREIGN SERVICE 
WRITTEN EXAMINATION
Saturday, October 27, 1990
Applications must be received by 
September 21, 1990
The Written Examination is tiic initial step 
in competing for a career as a Foreign 
Servicc Officcr.
Applicants for the examination must be:
 At least 20 years old on the date of 
the examination
 United States cilizcns
 Available for worldwide assignment
You may obtain further information and 
an application from your Campus 
Placement Officc or by calling area code 
(703) 875-7490. or by writing:
The Rccruitmcnt Division 
U.S. Department of State 
P.O. Box 9317 
, Arlington, Virginia 22209 
 An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Women edged by single point
By DAN HOLLANDTartan Staffwriter
The weather was cooler and the 
times were faster, but the 
Carnegie Mellon womens cross 
country team fell one point short 
of victory on Saturday in Schen
ley Park.
The times were overwhelmingly 
faster than last week as many 
runners improved by 30 seconds 
or more.
Junior Carolyn Lowe cruised 
into the finish line first as she did 
last week, but this week her time
was 15:50, a 14-second improve
ment over the 2.7-mile course. 
Lowe was named the UAA ath
lete of the week for her impres
sive victory last weekend against 
Robert Morris.
Following in second place, and 
nearly 30 seconds faster was se
nior Kristin Burgard, running a 
16:48. Sophomore Laura Sibley 
took sixth in 17:54, while senior 
Sue Sparks took eighth place in 
18:29.
Junior Emily Burke captured 
13th in 19:48; freshman Cynthia 
Kolanski took 17th, and sophomore Sheila Skaff finished 22nd.
One of the main reasons for the 
Tartans loss was the absence of 
two of their top runners, Lois 
Raska, who was out of town the 
day of the meet, and Megan Greig 
who was sick.
According to Sparks, that made 
all the difference. Wewouldhave 
won if one of our teammates was 
up in the top three or four. 
Indeed, this was a rare loss for 
the Tartans, but Duquesnes team 
emerged this year stronger than 
previous years.
Burgard cannot remember
when the team has lost to 
Duquesne in the five years since 
Carnegie Mellon has created a 
womens team.
Despite the loss, all the runners?, 
know that the big meets will come 
later in the season.
We will get our revenge on 
October 6, Burgard said, refer
ring to the All-City meet during 
Homecoming weekend.
Next week the Tartans face 
their stiffest competition yet when 
they travel to Meadville, Pa. for 
the Allegheny College Invita
tional.
Win streak continues for mens team

---------------------------------------------------

go
./ TU
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  10 September 1990
Tartan football opens season with 35-21 win over Wash. U.
By JUDY GROSSMANTartan Staffwriter
In the 1990 season opener, the 
Tartan football team took to the 
raod Saturday against Washing
ton University in St. Louis-. 
Carnegie Mellon won the match
up 35-21.
The last time these two teams 
met in a season opener was 1948, 
and the Bears prevailed, 14-6. 
But the Tartans lead the overall 
series with the Bears, 4-3, hav
ing won the last three games , 
including a decisive 45-7 win last 
season.
Carnegie Mellon is picked to 
win the UAA in 1990, while the 
Bears are picked to finish fourth. 
But when the Tartans and Bears 
faced off on Saturday, there was 
as much intensity as if the Divi
sion III Championship was on the 
line.
The Bears came into the game 
with a 1-0 record, having shut 
out Kentucky Wesleyan last week, 
17-0. The win extended the Bears 
win streak to four games, their 
longest since 1972.
They had won their last three 
games last season and they had a 
nice win last week, said Tartan 
Head Coach Rich Lackner. They 
were on a roll and they had some 
momentum and this was a game
of momentum.
The Tartans had the momen
tum early, but it was short-lived. 
Their first drive, highlighted by 
three consecutive first-down 
plays, ended with the Bears 
fourth interception of the season. 
Comerback Rod Shelton picked 
off a Billy Snyder pass at the 
Bears 10-yard line.
Interceptions always get high
lighted more than anything else, 
said Snyder. And its a shame 
because normally, Im not going 
to throwthat pass. I got a little too 
comfortable back there and let 
my elbow drop down.
For the next ten minutes, it was 
a defensive battle. The Tartans 
managed just 18 yards on their 
next two series. The Bears first 
three series netted 45 yards. On 
their third possession, they put 
together a 16-yard drive to the 
Tartans 28, but Jeff Crusciels 
45-yard field goal attempt fell 
short and the game remained 
scoreless.
But not for long. On the Tar
tans fourth possession, Scott 
Bamyak, the WRCT Player of the 
Game, scrambled 20 yards for a 
touchdown, capping off an im
pressive eight-play, 72-yard drive. 
Kicker Joe Schwerha converted 
on the point-after attempt and 
the Tartans led 7-0 after one
quarter.
Snyder was intercepted again 
on the Tartans first possession of 
the second quarter, this time by 
UAA Defensive Player of the Week 
Mike Lauber, who had three in
terceptions against Kentucky 
Wesleyan. But the Tartan defense 
held the Bears scoreless on the 
ensuing possession, and Snyder 
engineered al 0-play, 50- yard 
drive to the Bears four yardline. 
From there, fullback Fran 
Bellante took the ball straight up 
the middle for the Tartans second 
touchdown.
We got a great effort from all of 
our backs today, said Lackner. 
I was really pleased with the 
way we ran the football.
The Bears put together their 
most impressive drive of the half 
with just 1:36 remaining. 
Henderson connected with re
ceiver Chris Warlick for 33 yards 
to the CMU 42, and on the next 
play, completed a pass to halfback 
Mark Watson for 36 yards. But 
Watson was unable to get out of 
bounds before time expired, and 
the Tartans took their 14-0 lead 
into the half.
The Bears made it 14-7 early in 
the third quarter. Bear quarter
back Rusty Henderson, who com
pleted 16 of 29 passes for 283 
yards and two touchdowns in the
game, took the Bears 68 yards on 
eight plays. The crucial play of 
the drive came after Henderson 
completed a 23-yard pass to split 
end Steve McRae. McRae stepped 
out of bounds at the Tartan 18, 
but a late-hit-out-of-bounds pen
alty against the Tartans gave the 
Bears first-and-ten at the Tartan 
nine yardline. On the next play, 
Henderson and McRae connected 
again, this time for a touchdown.
You can give up the big play 
sometimes, Lackner said. Like 
that 23-yard completion. But you 
cant afford to tack on penalty 
yards on top of that twenty-three. 
Thats the kind of mistake we 
need to correct.
The Tartans came back with a 
score of their own. Bellante took 
the ball in from the Bears six for 
his second touchdown of the game, 
capping off a seven-play, 52-yard 
drive and putting the Tartans up 
21-7. The drive was highlighted 
by a 30-yard pass from Snyder to 
Bamyak on third-and-two. The 
completion put the Tartans in 
scoring position at the Washing
ton 14.
I try to do whatever I can to 
help the team move the ball, said 
Bamyak.
The Bears refused to give up, 
however, and came back with two 
touchdown drives to tie the score,
the first after Shelton recovered a 
Bamyak fumble on the Tartan 
six yardline. A pass interference 
call against the Tartans on first 
play from scrimmage moved the 
ball to the Carnegie Mellon one 
yardline. From there, Mark 
Watson, the UAA Offensive 
Player of the Week last week, 
took the ball up the middle and 
broke through the line to make 
the score 21-14.
Theyre a big-play team, said 
nose-tackle Jim Rose. As soon as 
they got a big play, theyd fire 
right up. It was a much better 
Wash U. team than weve ever 
seen before.
On their next possession, the 
Bears struck again, marching 56 
yards in five plays. The critical 
play of the drive was a 15-yard 
personal foul call against the 
Tartans.
Hendersons pass to Warlick 
was incomplete, but the penalty 
gave the Bears first-and-10 at the 
Tartan 38-yard line. Two plays 
later, Henderson hit Warlick for 
a 37-yard touchdown pass that 
tied the game at 21.
I think we made some critical 
mistakes in the third-quarter 
wherd we put ourselves into a 
very bad position, said Lackner.
We seemed to be in it for some 
plays and were able to shut them
down, said linebacker Matt 
Pielert. But theyd bust some long 
runs or passes and they managed 
to put together good drives.
The Tartans came back with two 
fourth-quarter touchdowns, the 
first on a 15-yard pass froin 
Snyder to Bamyak and the second 
on a seven yard scramble by 
Barnyak. The second touchdown 
drive ate up eight minutes off the 
clock, covering 77 yards and giv
ing the Tartan defense a fourteenpoint cushion.
When we needed to score, we 
scored, said Snyder. But ,we 
didnt execute as well as we needed 
to. Im just pleased that we won; 
and now well have to work on 
improving and correcting what 
we did wrong.
Tartan players and coaches' 
agree that the Bears are a muchimproved team.
I think theres a major differ
ence in the Wash U. football team; 
this year, said Lackner. This; 
year theyre a darn good football! 
team and theyre going to win
some games this year.?
The Tartan swill try to win their 
second game of the season this 
Saturday at 7:00 pm when they 
host UAA rival Chicago. The; 
University of Chicago Maroons; 
are 0-1 this season, after losing, 
their opener to Concordia, 14-13.!
:
CMU Soccer team remains unbeaten, 
2-0; Tartans defeat Hiram, New York
Jason Digman/Tartan Senior Darkroom Technician 
Freshman Min Chong juggles the ball away from a 
Hiram defender Wednesday in Gesling Stadium. The 
Tartans won the game 3-0.
SOCCER, from page 1
new Tartans who impressed Gaudioso.
Terence was a top-notch player against Hiram; 
he really hit his peak, he said. I also thought 
[freshman] Min [Chong] did a great job in Alans 
role of running the offense and [freshman] Jason 
Grebe did a great job on defense.
Late in the first half, Tartan aggressiveness 
lost out to a questionable call by the officials. The 
Tartans dropped a ball deep in Hirams end, and 
junior Rob Schaeffer outran a Hiram defender 
and headed the loose ball to Sibiya, who apparently 
scored on an unguarded net.
Unfortunately, the play was ruled offsides, and 
the Tartans lead stayed at 20 for the rest of the 
half.
In the second half, the pace slowed for both 
teams, mostly due to the heat and humidity. I 
think the weather helped us because we were in 
a lot better physical condition than they were, 
said Gaudioso. However, both teams slowed down 
considerably, and the second half produced only 
one more goal.
Late in the game, junior Young Kang was hauled 
down while going to the net, giving the Tartans a 
free ldck inside the goal area. Kang, who was also 
given credit for the first Tartan goal, scorched a 
shot past Hiram goal keeper Greg Graybill to ice 
the 3-0 win.
The defense played an equally solid game, an
chored by the play of junior George Gaughan. A 
fan favorite in his role as a backup player, 
Gaughan made his first career start and had a 
solid performance, cleaning up loose balls on 
both ends of the field.
George did a great job for us, said Gaudioso. 
Hes in great shape, hes quick, and he plays 
good defense.
The game also had an historical footnote as 
Kasabach assisted on all three Tartan goals, 
which tied Kevin Jungs single-game assist 
record.
The Tartans opened their UAA season yes
terday with a 10 win over New York Univer
sity. Having never seen the Violets, Gaudioso 
didnt know what to expect because big-city 
teams can go either way. You never know whats 
going to walk onto their campus.
The only goal of the afternoon was provided by 
Schaeffer, who scored on a pass from Sibiya. 
Chong scored late in the game, but the goal was 
nullified by an offsides call.Freshman goal keeper 
Dave Shapiro only faced five shots on his way to 
his second shutout of the season.
The Tartans will play University Athletic As
sociation rival Johns Hopkins University on 
Friday at 7:30 pm before facing Washington & 
Lee at 2 pm on Sunday. Both games will be held 
at Gesling Stadium.
Jason Digman/Tartan Senior Darkroom Technician 
May I have this dance?
Junior Rob Schaeffer and his Hiram opponent lose track 
of the ball in CMUs defeat of the Terriers Wednesday.
Volleyball eliminated in weekend tourney
VOLLEYBALL, from page 10
big loss in the middle. Sophomore Elizabeth 
Rowlandsfilled in for Leonardos position for the 
rest of the tournament. As for how Rowlands filled 
Leonardos shoes, Fisher said, she held her own.
The crucial game for CMU on Saturday, against 
Gettysburg, would decide if the Tartans would see 
playoff action.
It soon became apparent that they would not. 
Without Leonarado, the team lost some consis
tency, which showed in the beginning of the two 
games against Gettsyburg.
Fisher commented that the team waited too long 
to get our momentum going. The Tartans lost 9- 
15, 10-15 and were eliminated from the tourna
ment.
The team is still young this year with only seven 
returning players: senior captain Nicole Hanak, 
junior Lisa Devlin, and sophomores Joanna Downer, 
Kathy Iovine, Leonardo, Rowlands, and Heather
The Tartans competition this year will be more difficult 
than last year since the team has moved from the PAC to 
the UAA, which includess the number one ranked team in 
Division III, Washington University.
Thompson. Four freshmen, one new sophomore, 
and one new junior complete the roster.
In addition, the team is going through an adjust
ment period with Fisher.
This year two new setters, freshman Jennifer 
New and Devlin will start, since last years two 
setters have graduated. Last year, Devlin was an 
outside hitter and now she must adjust to the new 
position. According to Fisher, Devlin has lots of 
potential, she just needs some grooming.
The Tartans competition this year will be more
difficult than last year since the team has pioved 
from the Presidents Athletic Conference (PAC) to 
the University Athletic Association (UAA), which 
includes the number one ranked team in Division 
III, Washington University.
Other highly ranked teams will be in the eight 
tournaments (including the Carnegie Mellon tour
nament) that the Tartans have throughout the 
year.
The womens volleyball teams next game is home 
on Wednesday against University of Pa. - J ohnstown.
Fisher takes 
volleyball helm
FISHER, from page 10
scholarship after high school. While Fisherplayed at Eastern Kentucky, the team won four 
Ohio-Valley Conference championships.
After college graduation, Fisher traveled to 
Xativa, Spain where she played professional; 
volleyball for the Tormo Barbara Volleyball 
Club. She is currently a member of the United 
States Volleyball Association.
The team, although starting the season on a 
rough note, is looking forward to playing under 
Fisher.
Fisher describes the team as coming together 
piece by piece and getting better every game. 
They have the desire to win but have to get the 
skill.Reported by Senior Staffwriter Alim Ray.
Super Bowl predictions abound at dawn of NFL season
By DAVID MARTINTartan Staffwriter
August is gone, summer is coming to a 
close, the major league pennant races 
are coming to a dramatic end, and those 
cities fortunate enough to host profes
sional football teams await in anticipa
tion for a new season.
The National Football League arrives 
into its 71 st year of existence beleagured 
by a whole flock of juniors, floating free 
agents from Plans A to double Z, and 
inflating players salaries.Fines...
Paul Tagliabue, second year league
commissioner with his first start at the 
position, has seen fit in the last week to 
fine the San Francisco 49ers $500,000 
for using illegal funds to pay its players. 
It seems Eddie DeBartolo used corpo
rate funds to pay his exceedingly good 
players, explaining how he could afford 
to pay his aging quarterback Joe Mon
tana $4 million this year.Rule Changes...
Along with a new year usually come 
rule changes. The only major changes in 
the NFL this year that the audience may 
notice is that halftime has been cut from 
the standard 15 minutes to 13, limiting, 
if only a little, what broadcast networks
will be able to do during their regularly 
dull halftime reports.Final Cuts...
In the past week, the teams were forced 
to make the final cuts, from 60 to 47, 
taking many veteran players out of the 
game, even if only for a day. Among a 
rather strange number of productive 
veterans being cut was Joe Morris of the 
New York Giants, losing out to an aged 
but returning Otis Anderson.The Super Bowl...
The odds against last years world 
champions returning to the Super Bowl 
are 2 to 1. And last years Super Bowl 
loser? There are 4 to 1 odds on the
Denver Broncos returning, probably to 
be obliterated by the 49ers again.
My prediction? The 49ers are strong 
team, a well-funded team, but threepeat material, I doubt. Look for the Los 
Angeles Rams to be an NFC West con
tender, and quite possibly vying for the 
Super Bowl, while the temporarily-based 
Los Angeles-Oakland Raiders make a 
pass(or run, as it may be for Bo) for a 
playoff season.
Tonight, the 49ers should be victorious 
over the Saints of New Orleans.
Dave Martin is a freshman psychology major.
Mb,EeLBw pnn5terr M1n8mw
Cleveland 13, Pittsburgh 3 
Buffalo 26, Indianapolis 10 
Raiders 14, Denver 3 
Miami 27, New England 24 
Cincinnati 25, Jets 20 
Dallas 17, San Diego 14 
Washington 31, Phoenix 0 
Kansas City 24, Minnesota 21 
Green Bay 36, Rams 24 
Atlanta 47, Houston 27 
Tampa 38, Detroit 21 
Chicago 17, Seattle 0
Tonight: San Franslco and New 
Orleans battle at 9 pm on ABC.

---------------------------------------------------

lum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyigJ
IM News
Classifieds
Housing
Squirrel Hill - 1 Bedroom 
Apartment - Security Locks
 Security Deposits - 1st 
Month .Free - 1 Year Lease - 
828-1778.
AMBERSON PLAZA-5030 
Centie Avenue. Free park
ing, newly renovated, spa
cious 1 & 2 BRs. A.C./carpet 
/dishwasher. BEST VALUE 
IN TOWN. Models Open 7 
Days. Day & evening show
ings. 681-9870 or 931-4141.
Shadyside Inn Apartment 
Suites. Elegantly furnished, 
well-appointed, Studio 1 & 2 
bedroom suites, fully 
equipped kitchen. Includes 
free cable (HBO), phone, park
ing, linens. One block to 
Walnut St. shops. From $41 
per day. One month mini
mum. Daily & weekly rate 
available. 441-4444.
Apartment for Rent-three 
bedroom, Shadyside, 1 block 
off Walnut Street, $450/ 
month plus utilities. Call 367- 
1627.
Jobs
Activists -
Environmentalists: Work 
3 days a week, 1:30 - 10:30 
PM, and earn $ 165 - $200 per 
week. Clean Water Action, 
765-3053. Ask for Dion.
Research Study Controls
 healthy, non-smoking, av
erage weight women, age 20 
to 30 with regular (27 to 31 
day) menstrual cycles (with
out using birth control pills) 
wanted to participate in clini
cal research studies for 
Magee-Womens Hospital. 
Reimbursement provided. 
For more details contact Jan 
Markert, R.N. at 647-1175.
H&SS Academic Advisory 
Center Work Study Posi
tion: will aid permanent Of
fice Assistant in answering 
front office phone, fielding 
questions from incoming visitors, makingstudentappointments, filing, running er
rands, willingness to learn 
H&SS Core curriculum to an
swer general questions. Need 
someone to work on Mondays, 
Wednesdays, and Fridays 
during the lunch hour each 
day for a maximum of 6 hours 
a week. Contact Debby or 
Cathy at x2925. Must have 
workstudy allocation-$4.50/ 
hour.
Campus Representatives
needed - Earn free trip and 
bigcommissions by sellingvacation packages to Cancn, 
Mexico, Nassau/Paradise Is
land, Bahamas & Jamaica. 
For more information call toll 
free in or outside Connecticut 
at 800-283-8767.
Occasional Overnight Ba
bysitter needed for well-behaved 6-year-old, 6pm to 7am. 
366-8960.
Healthy Women - ages 18- 
37 (34 for smokers) needed 
for oral contraceptive study 
at Magee-Womens Hospital. 
One year commitment. Reim
bursement. For details call 
647-4259 ( Mon. - Fri.).
Club Leaders for Young 
Judaea. Responsible, re
sourceful, creative, likes 
working with children. Sep
tember  April employment, 
Sunday afternoon meetings. 
Salary + expenses. Call Y.J. 
Regional Office - 521-4877.
Easy Work! Excellent Pay! 
Assemble products at home. 
Callforinformation, 504-641- 
8003, ext. 636.
Fast Fundraising Pro
gram  $1000 in just one 
week. Earn up to $1000 for 
your campus organization. 
Plus a chance at $5000 more! 
This program works! No in
vestment needed. Call 1-800- 
932-0528, ext. 50.
Earn $500-$1500 part-time 
stuffing envelopes in your 
home. For free information, 
send a self-addressed,
stamped envelope to: P.O. Box 
81953, Albuquerque, NM 
87198.
Job: Recycling/Maintenance 
crew for the Housing Office 
(5-10hrs/wk.) Lookingfor two 
responsible people to primar
ily empty the can recycling 
bins in the residence halls ( 
about 5 hrs/wk). Also will have 
misc. maintenance tasks. Call 
Jeff R. at x2139 or email to 
recycling@andrew.
Services
Stunguns: legal, powerful 
protection - Teargas: at
tacker is rendered helpless - 
Guns - Martial Arts. Atten
tion: college students, young 
adults-Marys Shoppe. 835- 
2204.
Parties *** Parties *** Par
ties -Wehaveeverythingfor 
your party at Papermart - 
One Stop Party Shopping. 
Stroll down Morewood Ave
nue to Baum Boulevard. 
Theme decorations. Lots of 
fun doodads and fantastic lade-dah. Gag gifts and Fake 
vomit. Great greeting cards. 
681-8900.
***Low Student Fares *** 
AYH Passes *** EurailPasses *** TravelBooks *** All to be found at 
ForumTravel. Visitusat4608 
WinthropSt. (ofTSouth Craig) 
or call us at 681-4099.
For Sale
IS IT TRUE, Govt seized 
vehicles from $100 ? Call for 
immediate information. 504- 
649-5745 ext. 105-C.
IS IT TRUE ... Jeeps for $44 
through the U.S. govt ? Call 
for facts ! 504-649-5745 ext. 
S-636.
Please send Classifieds to The Tartan, Box 50, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Call 268- 2111 for more information.
IM Officers
The following is a list of IM 
officers for the upcoming year: 
PresidentBuddy Feitt, x3947 
Vice-President  Rich Romeo, 
*8335
VP/Secretary  Sujit Bhattacharya, x4084 
Womens President  Kris 
Pasqualin, x5978
SPORTS IN SEASON
Touch FootballCommissioners
Majors  Rich Romeo, x8335
Intermediate  Eric Pfefferle,
i4'l-7003
ffinors  Sujit Bhattacharya,
x4084
Women Only  Kris Pasqualin, 
x5978
Starting today, games will be 
played on Flagstaff Hill at 4:30 
pm. Equipment will be on the 
fields.
GolfCommissioner 
Garrey Long, x4125 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm. The E. J. Birdy Open will 
be played Sunday, September 23 
at the Schenley Park golf course. 
You can rent clubs at the club 
house; green fees are $6 for 18 
holes. You can play as a fourperson team or as an individual.
Tennis \Commissioner 
Todd Balbera, x8424 
Entry date is Thursday at 4:30 
pm. Matches will begin next 
Monday. Please check the IM 
bulletin board for playing dates; 
play two singles matches and one 
doubles match at the same time.
Co-rec VolleyballCommissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm. You must have three 
males and three females on the 
floor to start a game. Sign up in 
the IM office now, and be sure to 
note the league in which you would
NL EAST 
TEAM
Pittsburgh 
New York 
Montreal 
Chicago 
Philadelphia 
St. Louis
AL EAST 
TEAM
Boston
Toronto
Milwaukee
Detroit
Baltimore
Cleveland
New York
orLeague Baseball Standings
NL WEST
(as'Of 9/9)
wLPCT GBTEAMWLPCTGB
8257.590 Cincinnati7959.572
7860.565 3.5Los Angeles7366.5256.5
7266.522 9.5San Francisco7168.5118.5
6573.471 16.5San Diego6375.45716
6474.464 17.5Houston6376.45316.5
6376.453 19Atlanta 
AL WEST
5881.41721.5
WLPCT GBTEAMWLPCTGB
7860.565 Oakland8850.638
7366.525 5.5Chicago7958.5778.5
6672.478 12Texas7267.51816.5
6674.471 13California6970.49619.5
6275.453 15.5Seattle6871.48920.5
6178.439 17.5Kansas City6673.47522.5
5781.413 21Minnesota6575.46424
Mb,EeLBw aejn8 qme2bm 7ewmterr M1n8mw (not reflected in above standings)
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Baltimore 3, California 1 
Seattle 3, Boston 1 
Toronto 6, Chicago 1
Oakland 7, New York 3 
Cleveland 12, Minnesota 9 
Detroit 5, Milwaukee 0 
Texas 6, Kansas City 5
NATIONAL LAEGUE
Los Angeles 6, Cincinnati 4 
Montreal 9, Pittsburgh 5 
Phlladephla 6, New York 2
San Fransico 5, Houston 1 
San Diego 5, Atlanta 4* 
*11 innings
like to play.
Faculty-Staff TennisCommissioner 
E.J. Birdy, x2214 
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm. Games will be played at 
noon, Monday through Thursday.
Teams of doubles only can play 
in the major or intermediate 
leagues.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Entries due Thursday, Septem
ber 20, at 4:30 pm.
Cross Country 
Chess 
Water Polo
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Contributing Editor 
Members of Spirit play an informal game of football at the Spirit 
picnic Saturday in front of the CFA building.
Moss takes
TENNIS, from page 10
Moss is not a stranger to the 
Western Pennsylvania area. He 
graduated from Carnegie High 
School in 1969, where he was a 
WPIAL champion at number one 
doubles as a senior, and his team 
won the WPIAL championship 
that year.
Afterward, Moss attended Al
legheny College where he earned
over tennis
four varsity letters and the PAC 
number six singles title as a 
freshman. A member of the USTA, 
Moss has taught tennis in a camp 
in Maryland, as well as being an 
assistant pro at the Allegheny 
Country Club in Sewickley, Pa. 
and an instructor and coach of the 
team tennis program at the Mt. 
Lebanon Recreation Tennis Cen
ter.
KEEPING AN
EYE OUTFOR A GREATCONTACT LENSLE?
WAIT NO MORE!nn Oth Oerh
, REG. $79
With purchase of eye examcall us for an 
'appointment with Dr. William E. Sax, Optometrist.
N0W0NLY!
: New fittings onlyno other discounts apply.
SQUIRREL HILL EYETIQUE
2242 Murray Ave. 
422-5300

---------------------------------------------------

Without You Im Nothing will play at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse this week at 
7:30 pm. Admission is $4.
Cinema Paradiso will play at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse this week at 7 pm. 
Admission is $3.
Wild at Heart, winner at the Cannes 
Film Festival, will play this week at the 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers in the Fulton 
Annex, Downtown. Call 471-9700 for 
more information.
Abortion Denied: Shattering Young 
Womens Lives. This documentary 
shown by the Squirrel Hill division of 
N.O.W. will play at 7:30 pm tomorrow at 
the Sixth Presbyterian Church, Forbes 
and Murray Avenues. Call 421-4995 for 
more information.
Drugstore Cowboy will play in DH 
2210 on Thursday at 6, 8, and 10 pm. 
Admission is $1. Sponsored by AB.
9 1/2 Weeks will play in DH 2210 on 
Friday at 6,8,10, and 12 pm. Admission 
is $1. Sponsored by AB.
The Traveling Players will play at 
The Carnegie on Friday. The movie is 
the second in a series featuring the films 
of Greek director Theo Angelopoulos. 
Call 622-3131 for more information.
Driving Miss Daisy will play in DH 
2210 on Saturday at 6,8,10, and 12 prri. 
Admission is $1. Sponsored by SDC.
Return of the Jedi will play in DH 
2210 on Sunday at 7, 9:30, and 12 pm. 
Admission is $1. Sponsored by AB.
Uncle Moses will play Saturday and 
Sunday at The Carnegie as part of its 
Department of Film and Videos Fall 
Series. Call 622-3131 for more informa
tion.
Postcards from the Edge, starring 
Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine, 
opens Friday at local theatres.
Manhattan and The Stand will per
form at Metropol tomorrow. Call 261- 
4512 for more information.
Sandy Staley and Bobby Negri will 
perform tomorrow at the Shadyside 
B alcony on W alnut Street. Call 687-0110 
for more information.
Billy Idol: The Charmed Life Tour.
At the Star Lake Amphitheatre on 
Wednesday at 7:30 pm. For ticket infor
mation, call 333-SEAT.
Jimmy Ponder will perform Wednes
day at the Clearwater Restaurant and 
Bar on Walnut Street. Call 621-8881 for 
more information.
The Billy Price Band will perform on 
the Cut at 4 pm Saturday. (See Sports.)
James Taylor in concert. At the Star 
Lake Amphitheatre on Saturday at 7:30 
pm. For ticket information, call 333- 
SEAT.
Alabama with special guest Clint Black 
will perform at the Star Lake Am
phitheatre next Friday at 7:30 pm. For 
ticket information, call 333-SEAT.
Culture
River City Brass Band presents Pitts
burgh on Parade, now until Sunday at 8 
pm at Carson Middle School in McCandless. Jazz great Joe Negri headlines 
this celebration of Pittsburghs musical 
heritage. Also playing: favorites by Errol 
Garner, Fred Rogers, and Billy Strayhorn, Ethelberts Nevins Mighty Lak a 
Rose, and the music of Victor Herbert.
Billy Bragg will perform at Graffiti 
tomorrow at 7:30 pm. For ticket informa
tion, call 363-0500 or 682-4210.
Penguins training camp will be open 
to the public tomorrow from 1 pm to 4 pm 
and later from 6 pm to 9 pm. Admission 
is $5. At the Civic Arena.
The Tartan Soccer Team will compete 
Friday at 7:30 pm against Johns Hopkins 
University. On Gesling Field.
Womens Volleyball will play the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh in Johnstown at 6 
pm on Wednesday. At the Skibo Gym.
Womens Tennis will play Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania at 4 pm on 
Thursday. On the tennis courts.
Tartan football pre-game festivities
will begin at 4 pm Saturday with a free 
concert on the Cut by the Billy Price 
Band. A picnic buffet will be available for 
$5; students may pay by cash, campus 
charge, or Validine; faculty must pay by 
cash. In case of rain, the concert and 
picnic will he held in the Skibo Ballroom.
The Tartan Football Team vs. the 
University of Chicago. The first Car
negie Mellon Tartans home game of the 
1990 season will be held Saturday on the 
new Gesling Field. Opening night cere
monies will begin at 6:30 with the Kiltie 
Band, right after the pre-game festivi
ties on the Cut. The stadium dedication 
ceremony will take place at halftime. 
Free parking available in campus lots.
The Penguins vs. the Los Angeles 
Kings. Mario Lemieux and the Pens 
face off againstWayne Gretzky and the 
Kings Monday at 7:30 pm. Tickets range 
from $16 to $26. At the Civic Arena.
Dinosaurs Alive! An exhibit of ani
mated dinosaurs returns to the Carnegie 
Museum from now until October 28. 
Tickets: $6 for adults, $3 for students 
with IDs. For tickets, call 622-6500. Mu
seum hours: Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Saturday 10 am to 5 pm; 
Friday 10 am to 9 pm; Sunday 1 to 5 pm.
Hetzel to Parcell: Eighty Years of 
Pittsburgh Painters will be on display 
at the Carson Street Gallery now through 
September 29. Gallery hours: Monday to 
Saturday 10 am to 6 pm, Friday 10 am to
10 pm. Call 481-8880 for more informa
tion.
Thomas Reilands The Gift of 
Night, an exhibit of astrophotography, 
will be on display at Blatant Image 
Gallery on East Carson Street until Sep
tember 22. Call 431-1810 for more infor
mation.
The Pitt Fiction and Poetry Work
shop meets every Wednesday at 8 pm 
for readings. At the Cathedral of Learn
ing. Call 687-0379 for more information.
Sankai Juku will perform at 8 pm Fri
day at the Benedum Center for the Per
forming Arts. This troupe of Japanese 
Butoh dancers will perform their latest 
full-evening work, Unetsu.
Paint Your Heart Out Pittsburgh,
the annual City of Pittsburgh event where 
volunteers from the Pittsburgh area paint 
the exteriors of the houses of the elderly 
in local neighborhoods, will run through 
Saturday, starting at 9 am. Carnegie 
Mellons Greek community will be a maj or 
player in this event, although all CMU 
students are encouraged to participate. 
Call Paul Nagy at x5500 for details.
Fall Rush for the fraternities will begin 
Sunday at noon and will tentatively last 
until September 28.
will be held in Levinson Hall in the JCC 
building at the comer of Forbes and 
Murray in Squirrel Hill. Free admission.
Artist/Writer Joe Lewis will speak in 
Margaret Morrison Hall A-l 4 on Wednes
day at 5:30 pm as a part of the Carnegie 
Mellon Art Departments Fall 1990 Lec
ture Series. Free admission.
Samuel F. Pickering will speak 
Wednesday at Pittsburgh International 
Poetry Forums first meeting of its 25th 
season. Pickering was the teacher who 
inspired Tom Schulman to write the 
screenplay for Dead Poets Society, and is 
the source for Robin Williams character, 
John Keating.
Theatre
Lectures
Notices
Student Pugwash will hold its first' 
meeting of the semester tomorrow at 
4:30 pm in Porter Hall 125C.
Student Senate welcomes students to 
attend its weekly meetings Tuesdays at 
7 pm in Skibos Wherrett Room.
Womens Center Open House. Friday 
from 5 to 8 pm. Men and women wel
come. Find out what the Womens Cen
ter is all about. For more information, 
call x3595.
Picnic buffet on the Cut. Saturday at 
4 pm. (See Sports).
The Roman Catholic Oratory cele
brates Mass on campus every weekend:
7 pm Saturday night and 10:30 am 
Sunday morning in the Graduate School 
oflndustrialAdministrationAuditorium. 
A solemn Sunday Mass is celebrated at
12 noon Sundays in Heinz Chapel. Daily 
Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm in Carne
gie Mellons Chapel (Skibo 39). For more 
information, call The Oratory at 681- 
3181.
PAT bus schedules are available at the 
Skibo Information Desk. For more infor
mation on schedules, call 231-5707.
Your Teeth Were Meant to Last a 
Lifetime. Today at noon at the Healthplace on Fifth Avenue. Call 255-7391 for 
more information.
Ozone Depletion and Global Warm
ing, a workshop offered by the Allegheny 
Environmental Health Learning Cen
ter, will be held tomorrow from 8:30. At 
the Allegheny Tower on Stanwix Street. 
Call 237-2618 for more information.
Acid Rain: An Overview, a workshop 
also offered by the Allegheny Learning 
Center, will be held tomorrow at 1:30 to 
3:30 pm. At the Allegheny Tower.
The Citys Garbage Czar, Maribeth 
Rizzuto, will explain the Municipal Waste 
Planning, Recycling, and Waste Reduc
tion Act at the Jewish Community Cen
ter tomorrow from 7 to 9 pm. The lecture
Shakespeares Clowns, a one-man 
showby Rand Whipple, will be performed 
at 8 pm on Friday. At the Boyce Campus 
Theatre, North Side. Call 733-4343 for 
more information.
Bell, Book, and Candle, John van 
Drutens comedy of love and witchcraft, 
will be performed through Saturday at 8 
pm, except for Tuesdays performance, 
which will be held at 2 pm. At the Sher
wood Theatre in Murrysville. Call 733- 
8222 for more information.
The King and I, a musical by Rogers 
and Hammerstein, will be performed at
8 pm through Saturday. At the White 
Barn Theatre in North Huntingdon. Call 
523-3916 for more information.
Steel Magnolias will be performed 
Saturday at 8 pm and Sunday at 7 pm. At 
the Little Lake Theatre Company in Canonsburg. Call 745-6300 for more infor
mation.
Q>/
<>x>
5
Concerts, plays, Greek events, violin concertos, movies, jazz fes
tivals, lectures, truck pulls, musicals, announcements, political 
gatherings, sporting events, taste tests, presidential pardons; Uni
versity Calendar covers it all. Send your submissions to The Tartan 
by 3 pm the Friday before the next edition. Drop your submission 
in The Tartan office, Skibo 50, or electronically drop it in The 
Tartans Drop Folder in the Skibo zone on the AppleShare 
network. You can also mail them to: The Tartan, attn: Calendar, 
Box 50, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Raz,
Very innovative. What else can 
you do with duct tape?
M.E.
So whos still watching Cosby?
Blip, blip, blip, tick - add 
one.
R. Rutenbar
So - is he any good?
Photosow
JWB, PWB, MJA,
You were right! Debby IS a 
head case!!
Matt
After broccoli, cunnilingus is 
a close second.
G. Bush
Otis F.,
Get off the rag! Its a new se
mester. Chill for a change and 
quit pissing people off.
Iowa ... where you can hear a person.' 
the corn grow!
To Ophelia (or is that butter
cup),
I defend my country by serving 
on a Trident submarine, and I 
lose my chance at winning your 
love. Now I must go through life 
as a lonely man. I love you more 
than life itself, but, alas, you do 
not love me. Only one thing can 
ease my pain now. Give me the 
$38 you owe me, or perform oral 
sex on me. Yours in love forever, 
The Hollow Man, 
former Admiral now Jedi
The bitch aint worth the salt in 
my tears.
Yeah, I got questions. Now, 
lemme get this straight-you can 
get stoned if you fry an egg?
Average Guy
Hey Wallygator & Jeff,
What the F was that noise??
What the fuck is a Dingle? Is he
To my fellow Viking warriors 
from the Georgia:
Always wear your white teddies 
and Viking helmets, and remem
ber yo-hoooooo!
Rusty
I didnt chew on that end, I 
sucked on this end.
Ms. Power Hungry
To the woman of all my dreams: 
YOU ARE THE GREATEST!!! 
And I miss you TONS.
Your Rookie
Dear Sara,
I will love you forever.
Mort
Ms. Power Hungry
So two Jews, a nun, a black guy, 
an Italian, a gay person, and Dan 
Quayle go into a bar, right? And 
nothing at all happens, because 
these are everyday people, for 
Gods Sake, and they shouldnt 
be treated poorly in tasteless jokes 
by the public! Anyway, a white 
male of colonial descent goes into 
a young Republicans meeting ...
Well, what do you expect? I 
was shooting in the dark - give 
me a break.
Deputy Hugslut
Whip n Cream,
I just spent $38 to pay for one 
book. I cant believe I didnt give 
it to you. Now I really dread the 
other form of payment.
Ophelia
Party at Dingles pad. Be there at
10 or later. This is not a univer
sity-sponsored event.
You know youve had your eyes 
closed too long when you open 
them up and youre surprised to 
see your feet.
Photopig
I think the right phrase is get a 
lounge; or is that Im fired? I 
forget.
I have a hole. Several holes, ac
tually.
M.R.
(After reading G. Bushs thing)
H. - Whats cunnilingus?
D. - Ask Mike; hell show you.
And now, direct from Gages 
basement, comes Tilt the Band 
performing their number one hit, 
Sesame Street After Dark.
Don Pardo, right before 
the crowd goes wild
When its so late at night that 
its early in the morning, and 
you cant think, youre writ
ing Vox Populi.
Below Dingle
Non-useful phrases that you 
too can use in Japan: 
Sumimasen, anatano mimino 
nakani aoi banana 
haitemasuka? Excuse me, is 
there a blue banana in your 
ear?
Killer Bunny
Earth. Life. Man. Dingle.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 85, Issue 2The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania10 September 1990
It's 3 am  do you know whats open?
* Above: Chap Godbey, a junior math studies major, keeps others awake with his midnight to three am radio 
 show on WRCT.
 Right: Peter Everett, a sophomore design major, works on a project late at night, wondering when he will 
 get some sleep.
Below: Brad Stein, a senior IS major, does his laundry while everyone else sleeps.
photos by D.A. Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager
By SUZANNE BARTLETTTartan Staffwriter
Most of us have pulled the infamous 
all-nighter before, whether studying, 
writing a paper, hacking, or finishing a 
project. While you were downing that 
next cup of coffee, did you ever feel like 
you were the only person up? Or wonder 
who else on campus would be up at such 
a miserable hour?
Hardly anything is open 24 hours a 
day. However, there are a few places 
where someone can always be found, 
such as the reliable Carnegie Mellon 
Police Station in Baker Hall. And as CFA 
students can tell you, studios are avail
able for them any time.
According to Brian Hobbs, the UCC 
computer cluster never closes. Neither 
do the residence hall clusters or the 
Baker Hall 140 cluster, although the 
latter is reserved for CSW during the 
day.
The Margaret Morrison cluster is al
ways open, except on Friday and Sat
urday nights, according to CCon James 
Garrett, and Wean Hall is definitely 
open, says CCon Dan Appelquist.
For those interested in going off cam
pus in the dead of the night, the Escort 
Service takes over where the Shuttle 
leaves off, as the enthusiastic phone at
tendant confirms, Yeah, were here all
night. Sorry, dude.
For your listening enjoyment, WRCT 
will be operating 24 hours a day once the 
season begins.
Nocturnal students can get paid to 
stay up by working in one of the Dormi
tory service desks which are open for 24 
hours (dont forget to show I.D.). In ad
dition, study lounges in the dorms are 
there any time you need them, including 
the Reading Room in Morewood.
The news is rather disappointing for 
students who are looking for a place to 
play. Nothing is open perse, except for 
the recreational room in Donner (get 
equipment from the desk).
Also, one can always frolic on the cut 
or at the fence (within The Campus Po
lice definition of frolic). Sound excit
ing?
If youre hungry, the food situation is 
not much better. Neither The Tartan 
nor Scotland Yard are open all night, 
although The Yard comes close. En
tropy also has late hours during the 
week, but not for 24 hours.
Even though there are no other places 
where students can go 24 hours a day on 
campus, a semester here will prove that 
you are never alone, no matter what time 
of the day. There is comfort in knowing 
that the students are up, if no one else. 
Here at CMU, well leave the light on for 
ya!
Rape affects everyone
Where to get help
By MEGAN DIETZTartan Staffwriter
One in twelve college men 
says that he would force a 
woman to have sex with him if 
he knew he could get away with 
. it. This shocking statistic, 
reported by Pittsburgh Action 
Against Rape counselor Ellen 
Kurr, reflects one of many 
reasons why one third of all 
college women are raped before 
the end of their first year on 
campus, mostly by men they 
know.
According to Kurr, the biggest 
reason why rapes, especially 
acquaintance rapes, occur is 
that, Women arent brought up 
to be assertive and men arent
If a woman says no' its rape, even if 
she said yes' yesterday. 
P Nardi Obarski, CVVC representative
brought up to listen.
Although Kurrs statement 
may be considered a gross 
generalization by some, current 
rape statistics support it.
Disturbing and misguided 
attitudes toward rapists and 
their victims play important 
parts in the rape issue. Many 
people think that a woman who 
wears a tight skirt or teases 
provokes her own rape. In fact, 
a jury in Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida recently acquitted a 
rapist because the provacatively 
dressed plaintiff was said to 
have brought the action upon 
herself.
She was asking for it  
thats absolute nonsense, says 
Nardi Obarski, a representative 
of the Center for Victims of 
Violent Crime. No woman 
wants to be raped.
Another destructive attitude 
involves sex with regard to a
mans masculinity. As Obarski 
says, Its not manly to have to 
score, although many guys feel 
that it is.
Some men also think that 
when a woman says no, she 
really means yes or maybe. 
To that, Obarski says, If a 
woman says no, its rape, even 
if she said yes yesterday.
Although rape will never be 
eradicated until these attitudes 
are replaced by healthier ones, 
women can protect themselves.
There are several protective 
measures women can take.
First of all, avoid being alone 
with a man you may not know 
very well. Watch your drinking; 
alcohol and drugs may influence 
your decision-making and 
observation skills. Trust your 
instincts  if a situation feels 
uncomfortable, get out of it.
Perhaps the most important 
thing to remember is to be
assertive in letting your partner 
know exactly how you feel. 
Obarski presents the attitude 
women must take in this way: 
This is my body and I do with 
it what I choose.
But no set of precautions is a 
guarantee. Sometimes, even if 
you are careful, the unthinkable 
can happen and you can be 
raped.
If you are victimized, the 
important thing to remember is, 
as the CWC tells its clients, 
Were sorry it happened, it 
wasnt your fault, and youre 
safe now.
It is also vital that you get 
medical attention as soon as 
possible. You need to be tested 
for possible pregnancy or 
venereal disease, and you may 
need to be treated for injuries. 
And although it is not neces
sary, it is recommended that 
you seek some sort of profes
sional crisis intervention as 
well.
A Western Psychiatric Insti
tute and Clinic study shows 
that those rape victims who 
received some kind of counsel
ing recovered from the psycho
logical effects of the rape before
those who tried to deal with the 
trauma alone. There are many 
legal and personal decisions 
which have to be made, and 
crisis intervention can only 
help. The CWC says, Dont 
suffer in silence. Get help for 
yourself.
Rape causes such pain and 
suffering that it is difficult to 
understand'why it still hap
pens.
Women are separate human 
beings ... not just sexual ob
jects, says Obarski. Once that, 
is understood, the myths will 
fade away.
You can help by becoming a rape crisis volunteer.*Be a volunteer for a rape 
 crisis center. Soma training ' -is required.Call Pittsburgh Action Against Rape (682-0219) or Center for Victims of Violent (. rime P392-8582/ for more hi formation.

---------------------------------------------------

PITTSBURGH.,.
qo lum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyi
CMU professors 
examine the 
Homestead Mill
By DAN HOLLANDTartan Staffwriter
if you drive east on Carson Street from the 
south side, you will see a string of abandoned 
m^ll sites that stretch for miles along the 
Mbnongahela River.
Pne area which has undergone as much 
scrutiny as it has change is the town of Home
stead and its sprawling steel mill that closed in 
1086. To many, this seems like a rusting eyesore 
in a town of economic devastation.
But for CMU professors of English, history, 
design, and architecture, Homestead is a virtual 
gold mine of knowledge and ongoing activity.
History professor and anthropologist Judith 
Modell has coupled her research efforts with 
design professor Charlee Brodsky in a study of 
Homestead residents. Modell interviews people 
of Homestead while Brodsky captures the 
community in photographs.
Modell is interested in their responses to the 
changing community. I want to know how 
people understand their own community and 
how the mill affects their life, she says.
Modell says that the people of Homestead are 
critical of outsiders, which makes her work 
harder. There is a fear of uncertainty, says 
Modell.
But she and Brodsky feel that this type of 
project provides some insight into the towns 
future. Through the camera and interviews they 
vifew a community that is distressed but hopeful.
One question Modell intends to answer is why 
people have remained in a town befallen by 
horrible consequences. Modell explains that 
there are generations of workers who had 
worked in the mill prior to its final shutdown. I 
look for patterns of continuity over three gen
erations, she explains, and their loyalty to 
Homestead is a major factor. The locale and 
family support keeps people there.
History graduate students Lori Cole and John 
Hinshaw are looking at Homesteads earlier 
history. Cole is uncovering what happened to 
the 8,000 or more residents who had to relocate 
their families, businesses, and lives during the 
1941 war expansion project into West Home
stead.
It wasnt just a matter of picking up your 
tilings and moving to government subsidized 
housing, says Cole. The government housing 
in Homestead was for whites only and this was 
a mixed community. What happened to every
one else?
Hinshaw focuses primarily on bars from 1945 
to 1973 as a measure of race relationships in 
Homestead. He discovered that while Home- * 
stead was and still is an integrated city, there is 
a subtle racism within the town.
Many areas were integrated but whites 
excluded blacks from many'forms of everyday 
life like bars, he explains. If you cant have a 
drink with somebody, how can you live with 
him?
Henshaws studies have shown that segrega
tion was carried into the workplace. Each 
g^oup of mill workers  Poles, Italians, blacks, 
for instance  had their own section of work in 
the plant, he says. It is interesting to see how 
many of these same themes still exist in the 
town today.
For English professor David Demarest, the 
editor of Focus, and history professor Eugene 
Levy, exploring the riches of Homestead and the 
Mon Valley is less detailed than a doctoral 
dissertation.
We hiked around a lot, sayS Demarest.
Most of our projects involved exploring the 
landscape on foot. We wanted to experience the 
facility and its impact on us aesthetically. You 
begin to see it as an open air museum, and infer 
from the ruin what it was like. We experienced 
it from the bottom up.
Levy, who took most of the pictures, has seen 
the last days of Homestead. I had the chance to 
see OH5 working in 1979 right before it closed
down, he says. But now most of OH5 is gone, 
except for an empty corrugated metal shell.
The demolition of the Homestead plant is of 
particular interest to many because of its volatile 
history. Homestead became the site of a bloody 
battle during the strike of 1892. Strikebreaking 
Pinkerton detectives attempted to land on the 
mill site and engaged in battle with the towns
people, resulting in several deaths. Another 
strike in 1919 ended in violence as well.
By 1945, the Homestead Steel Works had 
become one of the largest capacity mills in the 
world, churning out ste'el plates for World War II 
battleships and creating record-breaking raw 
iron from its blast furnaces across the river at 
the Carrie Furnace site.
But after the war, Homesteads enormous 
output capacity could not accommodate a shrink
ing demand for steel and fell victim to the 
rampant plant closures of the early eighties. The 
Park Corporation, a Cleveland-based redevelop
ment and demolition firm, bought the site from 
US Steel and began to dismantle the plant.
Two years ago, the Steel Industry Heritage 
Task Force was formed with the intent to pre
serve parts of the plant as a museum-heritage 
park site. This includes Carrie furnaces No. 6 
and 7, built in 1907, and the Pinkerton Landing 
site.
Enter Steven Quick and Stefani Ledewitz, 
professors of architecture who consult for the 
Task Force and the Homestead Economic Revi
talization Corporation.
They created conceptual design studies of the 
Homestead and Carrie Furnace sites as projects 
for fourth and fifth-year architecture students as. 
Ledewitzs fifth-year class designed river-front 
housing for 130 acres on the Homestead side of 
the river. Quicks fourth-year class studied 
museum designs for the Carrie Furnace site.
To Quick, this project was more than just a 
class assignment. We are exploring an economi
cally viable way to redevelop the land, he says. 
He and the Task Force see Homestead as a 
mixed-use development area. If it is planned 
properly, with riverfront access, where industry, 
residential, and recreational uses can co-exist, it 
would be a tremendous asset to Pittsburgh. We 
want to show the people of Homestead how to 
take things into their own hands. Dont accept 
the past. Always look to the future.
Last Tuesday, a cooperative venture was 
signed between various government and commu
nity organizations to study and preserve the vital 
heritage of the Mon Valley. To Quick, this has 
tremendous potential for Homestead and 
Pittsburgh. And his sentiments are shared by 
many who will see the potential of such projects 
become reality.
Photos by Dan Holland/Tartan Staffwriter

---------------------------------------------------

lum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyiqJ
ToOaWand Forbes Ave
CMU
Forbes Ave
f<><n>
Beacon St
Pittsburgh 
Pro 
Bikes  2012 Murray 
Avenue
521-2453
Pittsburgh Pro Bikes
521-2453
$50-200 off
on Road Bikes
Helmets 
10% off
for CMU students only with Coupon
Have you changed?...
(Addresses, Phones, etc.)
The C-Book, Carnegie Mellon's student telephone directory, will be published in early 
October by A Phi O. If you have moved in the past month or you believe that the Registrar's 
data on ;you is incorrect, please fill out thyis form and return it to:
A Phi O office in Skibo 54 or to the Skibo Information Desk
Name:____________________________________________________________
Class: ______________
Major:______________
Fraternity/Sorority: 
Phone: _____________
Local Address:
Permanent Address:
"I
I
I
"
t
I
I
I
8
1
I
I
I
I
SI
8
1
I
I
8
I
I
i
IS
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Is
I
1
I
J
Telefact line tries to answer all
By MARNIBOREK
I Tartan Staffwriter
3 How does double strength 
I Mylanta II differ from Regular 
1 Strength Mylanta? How do scien;! tists know that the Afghanistan 
i yak produces four hundred eighty 
billion sperm? But wait  most 
importantly, how many cardigans 
| does Mister Rogers own? Only 
-1 the University of Pittsburghs new 
S fact hotline can answer these 
 conventional questions.
| Two operators sit at desks in 
1 the small student union room.
One munches on a chocolate bar, 
patiently awaiting the next phone 
call. The other searches franti
cally for the formula that will 
convert Celsius degrees into 
Fahrenheit  intermittently 
telling the caller to hold on. Sur
rounded by cookbooks, almanacs, 
encyclopedias, and statistic books, 
they are fully prepared for the 
unpredictable.
624-FACT was established Au
gust 29 to act as a central infor
mation source for the fifteen 
thousand students at Pitt. The 
service is not only equipped to
help the confused freshman find 
Langley Hall and inform the bi
ology major of the amoebas social 
behavior, but to even aid those 
who need their cars towed.
The system was set up by the 
student government after careful 
review of Ohio State Universitys 
fact line. As of now, the cost of the 
project is $37,000, taken from 
unused student activity funds.
Program coordinator Pam 
Gennaula, a senior business/ur
ban studies major, eventually 
hopes to get funding from the 
University. Were taking a 
chance on the student activity 
funds right now, but if we prove 
ourselves, well hopefully have the 
opportunity to get university 
funds for the program, she said.
The hotline shows promise in 
giving general information, but 
will easy access to answers have a 
negative impact on students?
Will they be asking the opera
tors about Utilitarianism for their 
philosophy classes ? Were not in 
the business of answering home
work questions, Gennaula said, 
Our operators are trained to 
know when these types of ques
tions are asked. The system was 
designed so students wouldnt 
have to go from department to 
department to have basic ques
tions answered  for example 
the phone number of a teacher.
So how does the future look for 
the program? The phone calls have 
more than doubled since 
Tuesdays one hundred and seven 
calls. Could Pitts telefact line be 
a help to all students? Will they 
succeed in answering even the 
most bizarre questions?
Well, Mister Rogers has sixteen 
cardigans.
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Contributing Editor 
Andrea Goodrich answers a question on the Pitt hotline. Most calls are 
for hours and phone numbers of offices or services.
Martial Arts Club kicks off 
Ultimate Force II next Sunday
instructor Curtis Smith demonstrates the correct form to one of the 
practice groups at a martial arts drilling session.
By DOUG SCOTTTartan Staffwriter
Ultimate Force II, a martial 
arts exhibition, will begin this 
Sunday. Curtis Smith, Martial 
Arts Club instructor for CMU 
and Pitt, will head up the event.
The event will include an open 
karate tournament, self-defense 
exhibitions, breaking, forms, 
sparring, and weight lifting.
Ultimate Force II will be held 
at Trees Hall across from Pitt 
stadium on Aliquippa Street. 
Proceeds will go to youth pro
gramming in Pittsburgh. Ad
mission is $5 for adults, $3 for 
children, and $1 for college stu
dents.
Registration for the all day 
self-defense extravaganza be
gins at 9 am. Spectators will be 
admitted around noon.
Weight lifting will be a major 
part of the exhibition as Jack 
Poindexter, of the masters su
per heavy weight division, will 
try to break a world weight lift
ing record.
Bodybuilders, including Mr. 
Pennsylvania, will also be on 
hand during the day to talk to 
spectators about weights and 
bodybuilding in general.
Competitors and spectators 
are welcome to join in on 
Sundays event to help out a 
good cause and see a good show 
in the process.
At CMU, Smith heads the 
martial arts club which is held 
on Mondays and Wednesdays 
at 6:30 pm in Thistle Hall off of
the main gym. Smith is a master 
instructor who not only teaches 
skills in Jujitsu, Karate, and an
cient weapons but is also a state 
police instructor.
Self-defense instructor Smith 
also just recently put out a book 
titled Buy Yourself a Minute. The 
book teaches more than just street 
fighting; it first teaches a person
how to be streetwise with les
sons on the psychology of walk
ing, observational skills, and, 
as a last resort, physical alter
cation.
To find out more about the Martial Arts Club or Ultimate Force II, contact Curtis Smith at 661-2244.
A Persons Opinion
Students often complain about various aspects of this campus.The complaints run from the serious to the trivial and they are about all areas of the school, ranging from academics to housing.However, most students feel powerless to do anything about their complaints in the face of the bureaucracy and red tape within the administration.Occasionally, a student will overcome these obstacles through hard work, perser- verance, and large sums of money. But most of the time, it isnt worth the effort.This week, we hypothetically granted unlimited power to five students. They were only limited by their imagination to change anything they wished about Carnegie Mellon.
in McKeen 
Sophomore, CFA
I would like the administraon to pay attention to the uni3rsity in general, to make it more 
ell-rounded. I think each de
partment should receive help and 
aid equally.
Clover Devaney Scott Torrey Rich Hu Rocio Goff
Freshman, CFA Sophomore, MCS Sophomore, CIT Senior, CFA
Im in the drama department 
and its so incredibly hectic and 
overworked. I would like them to 
lighten up on the coursework a 
little bit and give us more free 
time.
I dont like the fact that seniors 
get to pick where they live before 
everyone else. There should be a 
way to let more freshmen and 
sophomores into the new dorm.
I would change the girl to guy 
ratio.
I wish that the students had ,, 
more say in the design of new , 
buildings. We have a design and 
architecture department and. 
they werent even consulted for 
the construction of the new dorm 
or the restructuring of the din
ing facilities.
Brian Woods/Tartan Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

qSlum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyi
Counseling Center provides 
many services to students
By CINDY NEELAN
.. Tartan Staffwriter
Are you feeling the stress asso. ciated with acquiringyour degree 
at CMU? Is your overachieving, 
; unhygienic roommate gettingyou 
i down? Do you feel homesick, 
heartsick, spastic, or just plain 
confused?
..If so, before you make good on
that threat to perform a perfect 
swan dive from the top of 
HamerschlagHall, take a moment 
 to visit the Counseling and Stu
dent Development Center in 
Morewood Gardens. There you 
 will find sincere, caring, profes
sional individuals who will be glad 
to help ease whatever pressure 
you may be feeling.
.In Morewood Gardens, help is 
readily available for many of the 
problems you will face while at
tending this University. People 
come to the Counseling Center 
for many reasons, said Lorrie E.
- Rabin, Director of the Counseling 
and Student Development Center. 
Problems with friends, family,
or school, confusion about future 
goals, feelings of stress, low self
esteem, anxiety, depression and 
loneliness ... [are all addressed 
here].
In fact, over 540 students re
ceived individual counseling there 
last year, and many thousands of 
others have benefitted from at 
least one of the Centers 53 out
reach programs, such as the 
training provided for RAs and 
freshman counselors and the 
Adult Children of Alcoholics ther
apy group.
However, The greatest portion 
of our work is individual psycho
therapy, says Rabin. This ther
apy is handled in from one to 12 
confidential counseling sessions 
on a one-to-one basis with a 
qualified professional therapist. 
The number of sessions required 
is strictly up to the client, at no 
cost. Should more than 12 ses
sions be deemed necessary to re
solve any problems, the center 
will act as an intermediary refer
ral service, making certain that 
everyone who comes into the center gets all the support that they 
need and deserve.
Rabin is quick to assure that 
the strictest policy on personal 
privacy is followed in every in
stance. However, exceptions can 
be made if a counselor feels there 
exists a danger to the life of their 
client or another individual. 
Nevertheless, no one, including 
parents and faculty, is informed 
of any problems without the fore
knowledge of the client. The de
cision to include any outside indi
viduals [in the case of an extreme 
emergency] is always made with 
the student, as part of the treat
ment or therapy, said Rabin. In 
fact the center cannot legally in
form parents or the administra
tion of any problem unless there 
is permission granted by the 
student on a signed consent form, 
she said.
The Counseling Center is located on the first floor of Morewood Gardens E-Tower. A counseler is on call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at x2922.
Grits and bagels suffer culture clash
My roommate is from New York. 
Sometimes my pronunciation of 
certain words and my usage of 
alien phrases baffles her. I dont 
r'jQgally blame her for thinking me 
quite different, but then again, 
someone who doesnt order grits 
with her eggs seems quite differ' ent from me! Well, she is just as 
 unwilling to change as I am to eat 
bagels and kielbasa and to scream 
' at people just to say hello.
I usually consider myself an 
educated person who has received 
" the opportunity to drop the accent 
"native to my part of Tennessee.
' Now, having lived in Pittsburgh 
for nearly a month and a half, I 
am already suffering withdrawal 
' from the South. Its not the 
Southern Baptists that I miss, 
nor the gall of streetcorner 
3 preachers passing out antiCatholic literature. I am even be
ginning to learn how to live 
without grits. However 
Pittsburgh will never make up for 
the wonderful words and turns of 
phrases that only the South can 
have. I mean, where in the North 
will you ever hear the phrase 
cuter than a bugs butt, or such 
endearing double negatives as 
aint had no?
I was once put in my place for
SOUTHERN COMFORT
by Alison Carter
pollution of the language with 
northern pronunciation. It was 
by a man who sold ice cream and 
gigantic bags of pecans next to 
the interstate going south through 
Macon, Georgia. He would not 
sell me an ice cream cone until I 
said the word pecan in correct 
Georgian. The pronunciation, of 
course, was pee-can. After that I 
decided, ice cream cone in hand, 
that never again was I going to be 
put down for mispronunciation of 
slang. I attempted to drop any 
vestiges of the South in my lan
guage. I actually had little to drop, 
and it was easy to resolve never to 
speak in no double negatives, es
pecially since I never used none.
But (seriously) ignoring the 
native language of your home is 
like ignoring the most prevalent 
customs of your own culture. The 
language of the deep South is 
actually quite pleasant to hear. It
Fifth Ave.
S.
Filmorec
parkingYum
Wok
r
a
i
Forbes Ave.g
CMU
Voluom
CHINESE RESTAURANT
>
687-7777
400 South Craig Street  Oakland 
Mon. - Sat. 11:20 am -10:00 pm 
Sun. 4:30 pm -10:00 pm 
Carry out. Parking all hours. 
Nearby Free Parking after 5:00 pm 
and Weekends
I
I--:
(..I ftPi Ml
{f
dm [,w 
' ! S IK I'-" -te
1
Stephen Kang/Tartan Photographer
The Health Center is another Morewood facility devoted to the well-being of students. Pictured here is nurse 
Tracey Jennings examining a blood sample of a student.
usually lacks the loudness and 
roughness used more often up 
here and especially in New York. 
And, though it may seem prudish 
to say so, sometimes it is a relief 
to hear a soft drawl without 
harshness or obscenity. I can 
compare it to a Scottish or Welsh 
accent... the sound of a voice that 
is pleasing to hear.
I am still glad, however, that I 
was able to rid myself of the accent 
that I have, at times, unwittingly 
picked up. If I hadnt, almost ev
eryone that I come in contact with 
in Pittsburgh would say, You 
dont come from around here, do 
you? I still lapse sometimes, and 
people will ask me where I am 
from. Telling them that Im from 
Nashville is sometimes worse 
than telling them that Im from 
the South. Then they make the 
association with country music... 
God help me.
All it comes down to now is 
trying not to pick up my 
roommates New York accent. The 
only way I will willingly learn 
more of her speech is if she-hon
estly tries to learn from me how to 
eat grits with her breakfast.
Alison Carter is a freshman in CFA.
CERT advises on computers
By JILL DENESVICHTartan Staffwriter
In November of1988, a worm 
hit thousands of computers in 
the Internet system. The worm 
ended the trust of many com
puter users and opened their 
eyes to the need of an increase 
in computer security. Members 
of the Internet community cor
responded and worked together 
to help resolve the emergency 
situation. About ten days after 
the November 1988 incident 
Carnegie Mellons Software 
Engineering Institute became 
involved. Prompted by the worm 
incident, the Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency 
(DARPA) established the Com
puter Emergency Response 
Team Coordination Center 
(CERT/CC) based in SEI.
CERT/CC was formed to im
prove communication during 
emergencies. DARPA recog
nized that in such emergency 
situations, the electronic com
munity needed a central com
munication center. CERT/CC 
are the middlemen for corre
spondence in the Internet com
munity. Paul Holbrook, one of 
the six people who make up 
CERT/CC, stressed that the
team facilitates communications 
among members of the Internet 
community. Furthermore, CERT/ 
CCs main objectives, according 
to Holbrook, are to respond to 
emergency situations with advice, 
to transmit information between 
members of the community, and 
to inform users of preventive 
measures. Holbrook stated that 
over the past six months they 
have spent the majority of their 
time in prevention. It is impor
tant to stop the problem before it 
starts, Holbrook said Passwords 
and software are two areas where 
security problems can easily oc
cur. Holbrook also emphasized 
that passwords are the largest 
problem. Unfortunately, many 
people choose passwords which 
are in the dictionary. Passwords 
ofthis nature can easily be broken. 
His suggestions for choosing a 
password were: a mixture of lower 
and upper case letters, adding 
characters other than letters into 
a password, and having at least 6 
characters in a password.
CERT/CC not only works with 
users of the community, but also 
with technology producers. 
Holbrook stated that software 
becomes a security threat when 
computer users set up a system 
and do not update the software.
He said that once people get a 
system working they may run it 
with the same software for 
years. Like anything else soft
ware becomes old, problems are 
found, and updated new ver
sions are released. CERT/CC 
informs producers of problems 
that occur so they can provide 
their customers with necessary 
information.
Holbrook stressed that CERT/ 
CC is not a law enforcement 
agency, nor is it an investiga
tive team. It gives advice about 
intrusions, worms, viruses, and 
system vulnerabilities. CERT/ 
CC will help if users want? to 
contact law enforcement.* 
Holbrook considers CERT/CC a 
type of customer service orga
nization.
CERT/CC provides a reliable 
point of contact 24 hours a day, 
7 days a week. If a problem is 
reported CERT works with as
sociates, which number more 
than 600 hundred located in 
industry, government, and the 
research community.
In the event of a computer emergency, CERT/CC can be reached by e-mail at cert@cert.sei.cmu.edu or by telephone at x7090.
The Roman Catholic University Oratory 
of the Holy Spirit Parish
Masses on Campus:
Graduate School of Industrial Administration Auditorium (GSIA):
7:00 P.M. Saturday Mass with music. 
. 10:30 A.M. Sunday Mass with music (Coffee, donuts & fellowship follow Mass).
Heinz Memorial Chapel:
12:00 Noon Solemn Sunday Mass (With Latin chants, organ, and traditional 
hymns). 
Daily Masses: CMU Chapel (Skibo Room 39): 
12:30 P.M. Monday through Friday. 
Confessions: Fridays 1:00-1:30 P.M. or by appointment. 
You are chord "-ally Invited to come and join the oratory choir at Heinz Chapel 
under our new director Mark Lynn Milberger. Audition information call 683-6244.
For Additional Information, call:
THE ORATORY 
4040 Bigelow Boulevard 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
681-3181
Fkg0Jgkg

---------------------------------------------------

lum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyiqc
Technology has created problems since Thog and his wheel
One of the most overwhelming prob
lems facing us in the twentieth century, 
so they tell me, is that people feel that we 
have a problem with technology.
Some people say that this problem 
goes back to the dawn of the nuclear age, 
or even further back, to the industrial 
revolution. But then again, some people 
are liable to think a whole bunch of 
stupid things.
I agree that we do have a problem with 
technology. To say that the problem 
started, at the latest, in the late-eighteen hundreds shows such limited vision 
that it is almost laughable.
The real problem with technology goes 
back to day one, the day when Thog 
invented the wheel. (Ill bet you didnt 
know his name was Thog.) Do you know 
what happened when that neolithic en
gineer first invented the wheel? Some 
people will say that learning how to 
make the wheel was the first step in 
mankinds use of simple tools, which 
would eventually lead to building more
JASON SPEAKS
by Jason Lee Smith
complex weaponry, which would eventu
ally lead to the arms race.
These are the same people that said 
that America lost its soul when we 
dropped the first atomic bomb. These 
people are bores, and you should be wary 
about inviting them to your parties.
What really happened when the wheel 
was invented was nothing. Think about 
it. How much damage can a person do 
with one wheel? One wheel.
Unless hes a unicyclist with a ma
chine gun, not one heck of a lot.
The wheel was probably used in the
same fashion that all new inventions are 
used, as a toy. Think of it as the first 
product which Sharper Image ever sold.
All proceeded peacefully until one day 
the truly treacherous nature of all me
chanical things was revealed. Thog was 
rolling his wheel (there really wasnt too 
much else he could do with it) and it 
suddenly got away from him, ran over 
his toe, crashed into a rock, and broke.
The real tragedy of this mishap was 
not in the hurt toe, but in the fact that 
Thog had to wait around for a 
hundredmillion years until the first 
Firestone dealership was invented so he 
could get his wheel repaired.
This brings us to the whole problem 
concerning technology  it breaks. I 
dont care how advanced, expensive, or 
state-of-the-art it is, it will quickly break 
down, almost always when Im in the 
room, invariably when I need to use it.
This distresses me to no end. Not that 
machinery breaks down when I really 
need it. I always make sure that I can do
anything that a machine can do. Its very 
entertaining when our TV breaks down
 I do a great Uncle Miltie.
What annoys me is having to get things 
repaired.
I feel so helpless going into a repair 
shop. Im completely at the owners mercy, 
and the owner knows it. The first thing 
he or she does is stare at me coldly, and 
ask me what happened to the machine.
The owner never believes me. He or 
she glances over even my most logical 
explanations, as if I intentionally broke 
it myself, and am too ashamed to admit 
it.
Then theres the two day wait while I 
get the thing repaired. The two days 
multiply into twenty days, when they 
have to order a special part from the 
plant in Cleveland (always with the im
plication that they would not have had to 
do this, if I hadnt bought such an infe
rior model of machine).
These twenty days become two months 
when they have to send my machine to
the plant in Cleveland, because the part 
Cleveland sent didnt quite fit right. (I 
always think that the real reason is that 
someone at the repair shop is in the 
payoff of UPS.)
Then, they decide that its not worth 
the effort, so they destroy my machine 
and start building me a fresh1 one. It 
doesnt matter, though, because after 
the first week I bought a new machine.
So now you know what the problem 
with machinery is, or at least my prob
lem with machinery, and my problem 
with repair shops, and my problem with 
plants in Cleveland. I could tell you more 
about my experiences with machines, 
but Id better stop now: my word proces
sor has been acting a little strange lately, 
and Id better get it into the repair hop. 
After all, I wouldnt want the boys in 
Cleveland to start getting bored.
Jason Lee Smith is a sophomore inCIT whose word processor is taking a road trip to Cleveland.
Fast food corporation McRapes new cultures with grills and deep fryers
Food, folks, and fun. So says 
Patti Labelle as she pops her head 
out of the drive-thru window and 
hands a package to the two nice 
white boys in the Jeep.
I am sure that I am not the first 
person to be somewhat upset by 
the blatant insincerity of the 
McDonalds Corporation. Some
how the insincerity of the 
McDonalds has always been a 
given in America.
Even those who genuinely love 
a hamburger, as I do, know that 
in stepping through the Golden 
Arches they are compromising 
any shred of reality they may carry 
with them, down to the little tray 
liner which features a large pic
ture of the globe and pontificates 
on how McDonalds is doing its 
best to save the environment (We 
have made our styrofoam thin
ner!).
Ever since it regaled the world 
with its Oriental Chicken 
McNugget meals I have felt a deep 
sense of resentment toward 
McDonalds. But I dont mind so 
much that the company expects 
us to buy the concept that Chicken 
McNuggets could be even vaguely 
Oriental, even if they are served 
with chopsticks and soy sauce.
The resentment doesnt come 
as a result of the commercializa
tion, it doesnt even come as a 
reaction to the rape of another 
culture. That much seems inevi
table.
I have spent a long time prepar
ing myself for McDonalds to comf"1-----------------------------------
I
II
WHO IS JAVI?
by Javier Grillo-Marxuach
mit the rape of my culture, in 
which case Rita Moreno will pop 
out of the drive-thru window and 
hand a package of McCuchifritos 
and McMavi to the two nice white 
boys in the Jeep.
As much of an eyesore as the 
McDonaldization of my culture 
may turn out to be, it will only be 
a passing insult. I am sure that 
Puerto Rico will survive, just as 
China survived the Oriental 
McNuggets campaign.
These things are rather ex
pected of a company like 
McDonalds. One of my favorite 
pastimes has become watching 
for the many creative and some
times startling ways in which 
McDonalds continually reinvents 
itself as a perverse oversimplifi
cation of the American melting 
pot ideal.
There is something revoltingly 
amusing about watching 
McDonalds attempting to inter
nationalize its food without compromisingthe fact that everything 
it makes has to be prepared in the 
same way as a burger and french 
fries. Indeed, now McDonalds is 
planning to market a McPizza
and McPasta series of platters, 
once they figure out how thay can 
make either one of these items in 
the grill or the deep fryer.
This is not the slap-in-the-face 
I have been referring to. What 
disappoints me about McDonalds 
is the fact that it continues to hide 
itself behind a mask of benevo
lence. I am ready to have 
McDonalds reveal itself for what 
it really is.
America is ready. Is McDonalds 
afraid that its business will drop 
if it comes out with an ad cam
paign which quite proudly states 
WE USE 100% REAL 
STYROFOAM, SO GET USED 
TO IT, YOULL BE SEEING IT 
FOR A LONG, LONG TIME!?
I dont think so. The message is 
clear. Food, folks, and fun 
doesnt wash anymore. Over the 
course of the past twenty years 
McDonalds itself has done a great 
job of making us all jaded and 
cynical enough to understand ex
actly what it is that we are get
ting into everytime we bite into 
those two-all-beef-patties-specialsauce-lettuce-cheese-picklesonions-on-a-sesame-seed-bun.
If we have to look our own moral 
bankruptcy in the eye with each 
greasy swallow, perhaps 
McDonalds should make the 
same commitment to the truth 
that is forced upon us. I have and 
will continue to eat at McDonalds, 
and in the eyes of some, that 
makes me a rotten person, but I 
have learned to deal with it.
I have spent a long time preparing myself for McDonald's 
to commit the rape of my culture, in which case Rita 
Moreno will pop out of the drive-thru window and hand a 
package of a1sb1uCh8C5nw and a1aeWC to the two nice 
white boys in the Jeep.
Carnegie Tech Radio Club
i Thursday, Sept. 13  7:00 pm  Skibo 112
First Meeting of the Year 
***Everyone Welcome***
Come find out about the club:
 Anyone can become a ham - well talk about novice classes for 
anyone whos interested in getting a license.
 Find out what we do each year - the buggy safety net, packet radio, 
satellite communications, Field Day, and more.
Sponsored by Your Activits Fee
There are a lot of things I have 
had to learn to deal with. The fact 
that the 1980 remake of Flash Gordon is one of my favorite films, 
the fact that I love Frank Sinatra; 
these things may not make me 
the coolest kid in the block  but 
they make me the person I am  
and after selling over 40 billion, 
McDonalds had better have a 
good idea as to what it is.
Ive owned up, and Im only 
twenty years old. I want to see the 
same from all of those middleaged men who supposedly know 
me so well.
And while we are at it, I would 
like to take a hot poker to the sub
clowns who came up with the ad
age Sometimes, You Just Gotta 
Break the Rules.
Obviously, whenever I feel like 
undermining the present 
sociopolitical dogma I run to that 
motley, rag-tag bunch of ideologysmashing subversives known as 
Burger Ring.
Who do they think they are kid
ding? Perhaps Pillsbury, Burger 
Kings parent company, thought 
that its flour-white dough boy im
age simply had to be overturned 
in favor of the revolutionary lan 
inherent in being home of the 
Whopper.
Maybe it means that after 
spending so many years uphold
ing a member of the aristocracy 
as its symbol, the powers-that-be 
at Burger King finally came 
around to the wisdom that in or
der to sell burgers, they have to 
appeal to the same noble prin
ciples of revolution that made our 
country great.
At times I wonder what delusioned minds run fast food com
panies. Somewhere, somehow, 
someone has lost sight of the idea 
that the reason people buy fast 
food is because of those two words, 
fast and food. Some people want 
to eat a hamburger in under ten 
minutes.
It has nothing to do with the 
regularly cheerful demeanor of 
those who work behind fast food 
counters, it has nothing to do with 
the charming, old-world crafts
manship of the decor of the res
taurants, and it definitely has 
nothing to do with fun.
The only time I remember hav
ing had fun at a McDonalds 
was during high school, when a 
few friends of mine stole.,the 
welcome mat. Since they .are 
probably still looking for them on 
this, I wont give any more details.
One thing is for certain, the 
next time I want to rebel against 
the system, cross race and class 
barriers, and acquaint myself with 
a new culture, Ill commit an act 
of civil disobedience, take some 
time off and travel, or even go 
visit the United Nations.
Until then, Wendys sounds like 
a good idea.
I guess I promised last week 
that I would return to funny,- but 
my feet seem to have been nailed 
to the soap box. My editor assures 
me that with the help of the Of
ficial Tartan Crowbar and Flask 
of Iodine, this problem will be 
solved quickly and painfully. I 
mean it.Rimshot!
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is a senior English major, who prefers fast food to dog food.
ftwo 10 one 
^ item pizzas
$699
OOn,rL 
sN
(doublezz)
student special
10 pizza
with cheese
one coupon per order 
campus housing only
Si*"19 any 
oo pizza
I
one coupon per order  i 
campus housing only  '
o
, Q-one coupon per order j
campus housing onlyOexpires 9*24*90 >< expires 9*24*90 >< expires 9*24*90 CN O  1 p r,N O  I ^ CN-IL.
(doublezz)
Otwo 10 one 
Q item pizzas
$699
CO n,rL 
sNzoi olone coupon per order . 
campus housing only
expires 9*24*90 rc r.M O
II
II
H
O student special 
g 10 pizza
^ with cheese I
cb $299 11
OO on|y
CD= -|I
3Cial ilO (hjVloff9 any 
S pizza
sD
one coupon per order 
campus housing only
zoQ_
Z)
O
k'k'k'k
|l
o
one coupon per order  
campus housing only 
I 
I
!iexpires 9*24*90 >< _ expires 9*24*90 ^CN H CN

---------------------------------------------------

Db5re,E is a weekly feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
-metre's & cmp 
IH A RXUHb CHI IK
muto n see m M/omv smcs 
SARtoMi), OPUS'
ramkjoHfj
VolVumeT Mete fits we free sAtmms rniKKiHt* msr? -mew/up j PLMeroFW- ^ CWMep pet/m. C* 85m,Is22CarngiM,CU
rine com.'/^ uuMPtep mtONM Mv-weemBos , ofnmrpiATerr
cu/TM/n iniew..
%/tms**#-
r meeAPm Ptmef~^ or tmvntib veeemM 
<_ eco-pmiMSTS'X[ tsrra \) BARBARIAN L1 Htfbomwe wmmTiHes.L
WMRB \lsfttupi A
PCOTA \
course cou
vecMr u^tNwe 
nmov TVAicerrCHANGE.
The e85 ,Is2C
brCAiiy gsnubc
ItVe.FfiOM 
HIS DEATHBBD! IT'S UM~t 
THgpemY 
PMRTPI mc*~
COULD WU HELP 
ME OUT HERE? 
JUST FOCUS AND 
HfTTHB RED BUTTON... RBAPY? 
HERE GOBS...
I'M TAPING A FAREWELL. VIDEO FOR. MY MEMORIALSERVICE. I JUST CANT 
STAND WE THOUGHT OF . /s NOT BEING PART OF 
-fcj. THE ENTERTAINMENT!
FORiOHAT, 
ANDY?
rseClapYOU'RE
r,STlC
TlMEppp/Sh/yeah? What fa couple of y I <T*!lKcw/s! Ooce^ f when I was 
. running -ftra 
StreAof ,mploc a 
. I iVar^ifW over. j
(Hey! I nceV ^
/Stomped a rccfador 
'and +hen gored two 5 pictidors! Boyp you A 
neurr heard anyone l 
yell Ole ' +V\at dopy!r
/Well, T must( throwv "that matador
/fwenty -feet in-Hie .
air ..By the t-,me he..
HI, THERE, BEREAVED LOVED 
ONES! THIS IS THE FORMER 
ANDY UPPINCOTT SPEAKJNGi
T0 YOU FROM THE GREAT 
BEYOND, WHICH, BY THE 
. ^r^WAY. IS FULLY
I JUST WANTED TO SAY A 
FEW WORDS TO YOU ON MY BIG 
MY/ UNFORTUNATELY, I'M ALREADY ABOUT TO PASS 
OUT, SO LET ME 
HAND YOU OVER.TO MY WARM-/ ^UP ACT... f .
LETS GIVE ANDY... NO!
HER A HAND, I'M NOT...OKA Y, FOLKS ? MY HAIR...
C'MON, SHE'S NO! \
A LITTLE SHY!
^ Clap, / ((
<fiyr^CLAP/ \ A A
...MS.rOeClECAUCUS!TT'S ALL 
YOURS, 
JOANIE!
BullknittersThe untold ending to the fable, The Grasshopper 
and the Ant."
I PONT SEE HOW YOU CAN BE 
SO UGHJHEAR1EP ABOUTALUHIS! 
YOUVE BEEN SICK FORTWO YEARS 
NOW! WHY AREN'T YOU ANGRY? 
I'M ANGRY! WHYARENT YOU?
I DIDANGER. ANDY, YOU 
IT'S BORJNG. ARE WELL BESIDES, IT LOVED. YOUR 
MAKES OTHER FRIENDS WILL 
PEOPLE UNCOM- STANDBY YOU PORTABLE, ANP NO MATTER HOW 
I NEED OTHER YOU FEEL'
 \ PEOPLE. |
WHAT A FINISHf^^^ 
FROM HIS DEATHBED,
THIS IS ANDY UPPINCOTT 
SAYING. "DYING SUCKS!"
^ THAT'S MORE
LIKEIT! /
UJE'RE NO, I'M NOT 
BACK! READY TO 
REAPY SAY A FEU! TO SAY WORDS! ,
A FEW \ ^WORDS, H
rOeClE? fk
That does it, youn^ man! &o 
to the basement^ vtt in tV\e 
cV\a\r l'i\ be down shortly.'.. 
&uess M's time for one of, 
\c>ur appointments huH ?y
pfiFDAIORS
WHERE'VE YOU 
BEEN STAYING 
THIS VISIT, JOANIE-? 
NOT AT A HOTEL,I HOPE.
6INNYGOT
^NO, NO, I'VE 
BEEN STAYING 
WITH GINNY SLADE ANP HER HUSBAND *pYSHE / USEDTO
HANG LUHH?
GOOD GRAVY, HON! GEORGE 
WILLISRJGHT 
AGAIN!
The parenting advantages of dentistsWildlife day shifts
JOANIE, YOU WERE OVERTHERE ALL 
DAY HOW'S ANDY DOING?
YOU WANT 
TO TALK 
ABOUT IT, 
JOANIE?
TODAY UJAS ROUGH. IT ENTAILED LOTS 
OF... VIDEOTAPING.
LET ME GET 
YOU SOME MORE WINE.TALK 
ABOUT 
WHAT?FINE. INCRED
IBLE,HUH? HE'S DYING, BUT lM 
THE BASKET 
CASE!
I'VE GOT TO GET A 
ROUGH CUT 
TOGETHER 
FOR THE FUNERAL.
VIDEOTAPING? 
YES.
I TOLD HIM HE SHOULD BE 
ANGRY, DESPITE HI5 CHOICE 
NOTTOBE, AND NOW I KNOW 
HE'S ALL CONFUSED AS TO HOW 
HE SHOULD COPE ANP HOW HE 
SHOULD FEEL ABOUT DYING! AND ITS ^ 
ALL MY FAULT! fexpJj)
THE
DONUER WRTY MEM0R1AUMY PORSCHE BROKE I'M SORRY, DOWN. )0UALWAYS 
HJHATABOUT HAVE10T0PPEO- YOURBAD PIE, DON'T YOU, 
PAY? BLONPIE?
MAN, I HAD A 
BAP PAY TODAY!.ME, TOO. J DEODED TO 
PLAY AMATEUR THERAPIST 
WTTH ANDY, AND I PROB - 
ABLY SET HIM BACK MONTHS!
With Roger out of the way, it was Sidney's 
big chance.
lum pe8 MCEm is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.Nnn,mwtb8L is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette

---------------------------------------------------

w*tLa
1 I ^
Ye&st>
'* . *  . ;ir ?a
"TH&y wev 
OUTTWE yiwiDovJ
x MA4
LIKE
:HA^>vi&THE ^FeSKMAT 
ANc> AUTERWl <> THE- M'AME 
MqF6lq: TY5mLW5TTV33
'THAT dx:O
d*/qr 2n2giMU x+ 
l6T 97xax 0C8WWDTRlM 
IpTaYr/MlM3 xRs9 x":l 
699TM Dpp
WHEN VME SPOT A 
REALLY MICE.-L00K.IMG, 
FELLOW PACKJM<9 A 
B/GHQSS&CK,
WE'RE. ALWAYS PREPARED -Y25
a
'x
WE WHI P OUT 
OURBREATH MINTS /
'TMOl6M lR'3 (qDd0R0l6T NxHV Hx77l lHN fxHxRlTTM 'D 
(ax7 l6T aDMl HxNsxqq' s)DH30 
fTDM 7D6RVMTMQQQ++++++++++++++

---------------------------------------------------

/J .n+ V
5ee voy i
V'lafclg
V]V<H5 SpoTS 
(* arenai
on p.Te- /
iJ)ro9ix~l7asm-ss,
Joe, did it
o CCU<" f0 
yov TVioiT 
hT tioiT
be on 
Fooic - 
> f TV>e b^^ 
'A dot 5^+ 5o7
\U cwv-jT^inj af)01
(#
si-Stupir. Rt<*1ryen/ ^v/5T oci'-f \
^novi/ w(,er fo
0^.' C/.W'n-teTail'S
WV)0op.
lum xE :m, ln8mc iU
81/r J ever
bCc<^lr\T c\y 
Si/nj laSSe^.' 
HovO Coil id we 
have I qrWtJ
on tt>e wrono
PlanerR=r
Jt Ronnie Bob
iyy
CO)tLJ
i>D Vou KNtvJ Hovi seft o cu d
r***"s
colle
giate
cross
word
) Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-26
123456
7
t91011121314
15
i
16
171819
2021222324
25262728
2930313233
342a3637
383940
4142434445464748
49f505152
53
W
556
b/5860Hl
6263
1
646566
b/6869
70
I71
ACROSS
1 Fastened together 8 Periods of luck15 End of saying16 Snood (2 wds.)17 "----- a Clown"
18 Mop19 Judge20 Suffix for baby 
or child22 Stringent24 ----- palm25 Type of year27 Pillages28 Victory29 New York island31 French condiment32 Metal 1ic sound 34 Outcome36 Replenish a battery 
38 Jungle noise40 Litigation41 Careful45 West Point freshmen49 Foreigner50 Extinct bird52 Foolish53 Ailing
54 Slays
56 Pinball term57 Shoal59 Make beloved61 Illuminated62 Paid no attention to64 Scottish kiss66 Roman six'67 Every (2 wds.)68 Perform a surfing feat (2 wds .)
70 Thin71 Driving away
DOWN
1 Celebration2 By ----- (alone)3 Measure of intel1i gence4 Greek letters5 Pulls6 French states7 Actress Paget, et al.8 Metal restrainers9 Small pies10 Tease11 "----- go bragh"
12 Dovish13 Retaining14 Peculiar21 ----- nelson23 Cold drink 
26 14th president 30 Hold in contempt
32 Mexican food33 Hidden 35 Scottishpreposition 37 Golf hole 39 Aid to recollection41 Creameries42 Unlawful43 Golden quality44 "The Greatest StoryEver -----"46 Kettle handle47 Animate48 Background51 Hebrew letters54 N.H. resort city55 Vaughan or 
Bernhardt58 Dry wind (var.)60 Gambling resort 63 Reel's partner65 ----- trip69 Note of the scale
These are the 
answers to last 
issues's puzzle.
HOD mas 000000 000 0(3 OS SI 000O00 (900 0000 00013830000000000(3 0000 0000 0000 EHQ0O00 00Q00000 O0O00 00000 OHO HOOD 00000 0000 000 Q0Q00 00000 00000000 000O00 QO00 0000 &iiD iiiiiiiiJi (iDii7 iDii i!Ji ii!Jiii iiii iiJ 000000 0000 000
,,A

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Federman looks better in black
The comedian spars with hecklers 
and a lighting crew in the Ballroom
By* TERRI KASCH -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor When he found out that CMUs football team is
CMU students can be a tough crowd. called the Tartans, he asked what the word
Just ask comedian Wayne Federman tt. .  j. An. ... ,
who performed in Skibo ballroom last tartan meant. After getting a response he 
X&StJLi. O8K$9 said- It's a piece of cloth - so that intimidates the opponents.
little tongue-tied and introduced him as 
Fayne Wederman.
After taking the stage, Federman looked a blue mood spot as opposed to the white 
into the audience and claimed that they and green lights that were on him. After 
wefe all shooting him that TVTake me repeating the request and getting no 
lauh, Jew-boy look. change in the lights he asked them to
Then Federman tried to get to know the just, you know, try and make me look 
crowd a little better and asked a student good.
in tlie front row what his name was, a All of a sudden the lights faded to black, 
seemingly harmless question. The When the lights came back Federman 
students first name turned out to be conceded This is fine, you made your 
Gleb, and after eight or nine attempts to point.
pronounce that persons name correctly, Even with all of these obstacles to 
Federman made a desperate move and overcome, Federman managed to keep 
assigned the student a name. the crowd laughing for over an hour. His
And of course there were the hecklers, jokes ranged from one-liners that barely 
While every stand-up comic has to deal received a response to sets about the 
with his or her fair share of hecklers, heavy metal band Dokken, his skiing 
Federman faced an unusual dilemma, ability, and Carnegie Mellon that had the 
While reading the Persons Opinion ar- audience gasping for breath, 
tide in last weeks Tartan, Federman Perhaps his most popular jokes were 
asked what CIT stood for. One person those geared strictly for this school. When 
called out Carnegie Institute of Technol- he found out that CMUs football team is 
ogy followed by . a second student who called the Tartans, he asked what the 
deadpanned For a hundred dollars.... word tartan meant. After getting a reThe audience is heckling each other, sponse he said, Its a piece of cloth  so 
Federman pointed out. that intimidates the opponents.
At-the end of his act Federman took up He eventually unfolded an issue of The 
a ukelele and asked the lighting crew for Tartan and began reading: The question
is, so we went out and asked students 
what they thought of the new dining ser
vice I guess you revamped the service 
here... Is it better or worse than before? 
Lets see what Joy Jefferson, a sophomore, 
had to say. Is it better or worse? Its 
nice. 
Jefferson turned out to be in the audi
ence, so he spoke directly to her. Joy, is it 
better or worse. Two choices, better or 
worse. Its nice. What was your thought 
process, Joy? Were you misquoted? 
Continuing with Jeffersons response, 
Federman read,  Besides, its less crowded 
and more convenient if you live, and then 
they have in brackets, in the new dorm. 
Did you say that or did you just mime it? 
Finally he finished up by noting, This 
is something my mom would say: The 
new dishes are nice. Joy, hows the 
stemware? Thats the really important 
thing.
Moving on to Jim Thomas he continued, 
Is it better or worse? Its terrible. There 
are pillars in the middle of the line that 
you have to go around.  To which 
Please see FEDERMAN, page L13
Alex Patho Jr./Tartan Photographer 
Comedian Wayne Federman gets down and funky with his ukelele during his 
performance last Saturday night.
Without you shes nothing
Productions Inc.
Sandra Bernhard tries out her Coco Chanel look in the film Without You 
I m Nothing.
By TERRI KASCHTartan Asst. Diversions Editor
The comedy of Sandra Bernhard 
is an acquired taste and the come
dienne is the first one to admit it. 
She knows that she has offended 
some people with her humor and 
has beenmisunderstood by others. 
She makes this point clear with 
her latest film Without You Tm Nothing, now playing until Sep
tember 20 at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse.
Based on her one-woman, offBroadway show from the sum
mer of 1988 (which she calls her 
superstar summer), Without You Im Nothing chronicles 
Bernhards search to find her 
niche in the world of comedy. 
Much of the movie has her repeat
ing segments of her act from her 
off-Broadway show. Yet, the au
dience on screen that sits and 
watches each of her performances 
never laughs. Most often they 
seem to have forgotten shes in 
the room.
Bernhard has a motive for do
ing this. The thing that Ive al
ways objected to in concert films 
is. that you sit there and youre 
watching an audience respond to 
a performer, and I dont want to 
be told how to respond to mate
rial. Bernhard stresses that hers
 vty,I PIy,Iu 
??? WITHOUTYOU IM NOTHING.
The film version of comedienne 
Sandra Bernhards one-woman 
show in which she discusses every
thing from sex to Christmas. Star
ring Sandra Bernhard with special 
appearances by Steve Antin and 
John Doe. At the Pittsburgh Play
house until September 20.
is not a concert film and that the 
audience will hopefully feel free 
to respond according to what they 
think of the material.
While Bernhard has succeeded 
in producing much more than a 
concert film, it is almost danger
ous to laugh during this movie. 
Since there is no film audience for 
her to respond to, she keeps her. 
jokes coming at a much faster 
pace than the tape of her offBroadway show. She never al
lows time for actual laughter, so if 
you do laugh at all, youre probably 
going to miss the next joke.
The movie is often unclear in its 
message. Throughout the film one 
black woman is shown quietly 
observing the world around her. 
Who this woman is and what she 
represents is never specified.
Please see BERNHARD, page L10
Cinema is a masterpiece
By TERRI KASCHTartan Asst. Diversions Editor
For the next ten days the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse will also 
run the film masterpiece Cinema Paradiso. Director 
Giuseppe Tornatore gives us 
one of those all-too-rare films 
where, when youre not busy 
laughing, youll be on the verge 
of tears.
The story opens with a Sicil
ian woman calling France to 
try to reach her son Toto, a film 
director who hasnt returned to 
his hometown in over twenty 
years. During this time she has 
often tried to get Toto to visit 
her, but he has always refused. 
Today, though, she knows he 
will come back.
Over in Paris, Toto speaks to 
his mother over the phone and 
she tells him her news: Alfredo 
has died.
The rest of the film is a 
flashback of Totos childhood in 
Sicily and the experiences that 
brought him into his current 
profession. First he recalls 
sneaking into the movie house, 
called the Cinema Paradiso, to 
watch as Alfredo, the projec vty,I PIy,Iu 
**** CINEMA PARADISO. The
story of how a young boy in love 
with movies befriends an aging 
projectionist and eventually 
grows up to be a successful di
rector. Starring Philippe Noiret 
and Salvatore Cascio. Directed 
by Giuseppe Tornatore. At the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse until Sep
tember 20.
tionist, gives a private show
ing of each new movie for a 
local clergyman. When even the 
slightest sexual act is commit
ted, including a kiss, the priest 
rings a bell and Alfredo marks 
the film to be cut out before the 
movie is shown to the public.
Young Toto spends most of 
his time trying to convince 
Alfredo to let him work the 
projection camera, but Alfredo 
does as much as possible to 
keep him from following in his 
own footsteps. Alfredo tells him 
that running a projector is a 
job meant only for an idiot and 
that he should just forget about 
the idea altogether. In the end, 
Please see CINEMA, page Lit)
Ken Goldberg blends computers and art to produce an eccentric mix
% ALLISON DURAZZITartan Staffwriter
j At Carnegie Mellon it is easy to 
distinguish an artist from an en
gineer. But, one man feels, this 
distinction is made too easily.
! Acting, he says, as a friendly 
intermediary between these two 
spheres, Ken Goldberg opened his 
fW show, The Paintbrush Elecat Forbes Gallery last 
$Vednesday. The show, which 
filosed on Sunday, consisted of a 
es of thirteen pieces created 
?y the CMU alumnus with the 
aelp'of a robotic arm.
; At first sight, the paintings were 
rudimentary: angular strokes, 
Monochromatic themes, but then
Goldberg explained.
The images for this show were 
composed on a computer screen 
using a mouse. Each line seg
ment, or stroke, is defined by four 
numbers, he said. The list of 
numbers is then used to control 
an industrial robot with an at
tached paintbrush. When the 
paintbrush is dipped in ink, the 
path of the brush leaves a mark 
on the paper.
What continued to make this 
exhibit bizarre was the fact that 
Goldberg does not, as most ex
hibitors at Forbes or any other 
gallery, label himself as an artist. 
After completing six years of 
graduate study at the School of 
Computer Science, he states he is
a scientist first, and concedes 
that he is an untrained artist 
second. This made him tentative 
to display at Forbes, but after 
being on the CMU campus, he felt 
the need to show his work as an 
attempt to assuage the fears of 
both engineers and artists with 
respect to each other.
Many artists seem to be both 
contemptuous of and intimidated 
by technology, said Goldberg. 
With perhaps good reason, they 
scoff at so-called computer art 
with its flat, precise edges and 
unnatural colors. For these 
people, he says he attempts to 
demystify technology by linking 
The Paintbrush with The Ma
chine.
Im trying to make artists aware of 
the creative use of computers while 
showing engineers that computers 
can be used for more than realistic 
images.
P Ken Goldberg
At the same time, engineers 
have almost mirror images of art. 
Its not a tool for everyone, but Im 
trying to make artists aware of 
the creative use of computers 
while showing engineers that 
computers can be used for more
than realistic images.
The pieces began vntb.y=mx+b, 
the equation for a straight line. 
This painting laid the foundation 
for the rest of the exhibit, Goldberg 
explained, because all the im
ages ... are comprised of straight
line segments.Self Portrait was two portray
als of the same image, Goldberg 
at work at the computer. The first 
differs from the second in the col
ors he used. This also delivered a 
surprising effect to Goldberg. Al
though both were generated by 
the same robot program, one was 
angrier to the others compla
cency. On these paintings, and on 
others in the exhibit, were what 
he liked to call pockets of ran
domness  blotches of paint ac
cidentally dropped as the robot 
moved the brush from the paint 
to the paper after every thirty 
centimeters of movement.Fingerpainting deviated from 
Please see GOLDBERG, page L13

---------------------------------------------------

qDlum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyi
Witness a slice of 
life at Putt-Putt
Its true that they barred me 
from the Putt-Putt miniature golf 
course on Coit Road for putting a 
two-foot dent in a baby elephant, 
but it wasnt my fault. Mavis 
Hunley kept knocking her ball 
into the decorative concrete 
jungle-swamp water garden be
cause I like to take a good solid 
swat at it. And I told her not to do 
that. I told her, Mavis, they got 
three-year-old kids that can hit 
the ball hard enough to get it up to 
the hole.  But Mavis said the game 
is a good way to take out your 
aggressions, and so she pretty 
much smashed the yellow DayGlo paint off the ball every single 
time she hit it.
Every time we play miniature 
golf, I think its gonna be different. 
I think were gonna concentrate 
on the game, try to learn some
thing out there on the course, but 
then Mavis or Wanda Bodine or 
Rhett Beavers or somebody de
cides their personal honor is at 
stake.
Like, if you take Wanda to the 
golf course, she gets more and 
more hacked off every time you 
have to pass one of those seventeen-year-old girls in the bluejean 
mini-skirts. You know the ones 
Im talking about? The ones that 
are always playing miniature golf 
with guys named Shane that wear 
football jerseys that are cut in 
half across their chest?
These gals, as we all know, dont 
know how to play miniature golf. 
We all realize this. We all realize 
theyre gonna put their ball down 
on the mat and sweep it like a 
broom and then giggle. And then, 
when it goes too far and bounces 
off the back and comes all the way 
back down to where it started,
JOE BOB GOES TO THE 
DRIVE IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
theyre gonna giggle some more 
and jump up and down and hit it again before it stops rolling. I know 
this. You know this. Girls in 
bluejean mini-skirts have been 
doing this for years. Everybody 
who has played miniature golf 
knows this.
Wanda doesnt know this. 
What does she thinks shes 
doing? Wanda will say.
Ill try to explain. Shes jump
ing up and down so Shane will see 
her mini-skirt.
See her mini-skirt? See it? I 
think weve all seen enough of it. 
Its your turn.
What?
Its your turn to play, Wanda. 
Hit the goldurn ball.
And then, of course, Wanda will 
hit the ball off the back board and 
itll come all the way back down to 
where it started.
Or you take Mavis. Maviss 
problem is kids with purple hair 
or a lot of chains on their shirt. 
You know this group, dont you? 
The group of six, and none of them ever get their ball in the hole. 
Never, ever, not once. They just 
hit it and then hit it again and 
then hit it some more, and then 
they pick it up and start hitting it 
on the next hole. And when theyre
not hitting it, they act like theyre 
about to hit one another over the 
head with their clubs. And when 
theyre not doing that, they all hit 
their balls at the same time. And 
when theyre not doing that, they kick the balls?
Its punk golf, Mavis. Dont 
worry about it.
But she cant stand it.
Im gonna speak to the man
ager.
What good is that gonna do. 
They can play punk golf if they 
want to.
It says here, right on the 
scorecard, that only one person 
plays at a time.
Yeah, right, Mavis. Maybe well 
need the police.
Five-stroke maximum! Fivestroke maximum!
Mavis, they hit the goldurn 
balls so fast nobody can tell how 
many times they hit em anyway. 
I saw one guy hit his ball nine 
times on one hole.
Its your turn.
What?
Its your turn to play.
And thats when Mavis decides 
she has to take a good solid whack 
at the ball. And so last week, at 
the time in question, she took a 
full backswing, like she was in 
the U.S. Open or something, and 
she hit the ball so hard that it flew 
right off the end of the club, 
bounced off a replica of the 
Matterhorn, skimmed across a 
zebras back, and fell into two feet 
of water underneath a sprayingtrunk baby elephant. I didnt 
wanna say anything at the time, 
but it also missed a kid with or
ange hair by about nine inches.
Fortunately, the kid thought it 
was really cool.
A typical Ohio State Professor demonstrating a campus ROTC drill in Beyond Dream's Door.
I didnt want this situation to 
escalate, though, and so I plunged 
into the swamp and, in one grace
ful athletic movement, vaulted 
over the baby elephants back and 
kicked Maviss ball off the bottom 
with the side of my boot.
Unfortunately, it landed on the 
assistant night managers Adams 
apple.
Well, it didnt really land there. 
It kind of hit there and sprung 
backward, and when the ambu
lance came it was....
Well, all Ive got to say is we 
could have made $10,000 on America's Funniest Home Videos 
if wed just remembered to bring 
the camera.
I think its a little strict, though, 
to get barred just for one lousy 
dent in a baby elephant. I could 
have reached down in there and 
beat it back into shape. I used to 
work for Dekes Auto Body Re
pair.
Joe Bob, youve got to learn to 
stay out of other peoples busi
ness, Mavis said. That wasnt
your ball.
Thats right, Wanda added. 
Serves you right for meddling. 
Speaking of demons with weap
ons, Beyond Dreams Door is a 
grisly video release made in Co
lumbus, Ohio, for practically no 
money that is one of the strangest 
movies Ive ever seen. Since Ive 
seen Yvonne de Carlo eating hu
man toes, this is a very high 
compliment. Ive watched it twice 
and Im not sure I totally under
stand it, but Ill give it a shot: 
Ben is a college student who 
decides he needs a psychology 
class to figure out why a lasagnafaced toothy dinosaur-demon is 
trying to eat his head off in his 
dreams. Sometimes the demon 
acts like hes Bens adorable little 
brother Ricky  until Ben re
members that he doesnt have an 
adorable little brother Ricky. 
Sometimes the demon comes to 
him as a brunette in a Fredericks 
of Hollywood outfit. But Ben 
knows one thing for sure: The 
minds of Ohio State will have the
answers.
Unfortunately, the finest mind 
Ohio State has to offer is a psych 
professor who likes to stick igun 
in his eye to see what his students 
will do. The slime demon makes a 
Sunday brunch out of this guy 
pretty early in the second reel. 
But he doesnt just stop with psych 
professors and disturbed young 
undergrads. This demon is so evil I 
that he starts eating  oh no!" 
cant be!  the teaching assis
tants, too.
Now the demon is totally an 
control. Theres never anybody 
around to answer your questions.
And do you know why the demon 
does all this?
Because Ben doesnt remember 
any of his dreams from the time 
he was nine years old. And so that 
makes all the zombies of the un
derworld furious because... well,
I didnt quite get the because part 
... and also the demon has to de
stroy a page out of a psych book 
that tells about this guy 20 years 
Please see JOE BOB, page Lll
Without you shes nothing
BERNHARD, from page L9
But clarity has never been the point of 
Bernhards work. She tries to keep the 
audience guessing by smearing her own 
history, making references to her own 
sexual and political ambiguity so the 
audience is never quite sure what is 
truth and what is just part of the act.
Some of the references in her movie, 
however, are unmistakable. In the film, 
Bernhards act is followed on two occa
sions by the infinitely more popular 
Shoshanna who struts about the stage in 
bleached blonde hair, black lace and 
fishnet stockings, singing and stripping 
in an only slightly exaggerated spoof of 
Madonna.
If youve never heard of or seen
Bernhard it is difficult to determine 
whether youd have a good time at her 
film. But there are a few factors to keep 
in mind: If you are easily shocked by 
scenes or discussions of certain sexual 
practices, like homosexuality, then this 
is not the film for you. Likewise if youre 
expecting a comic who just delivers jokes. 
Sandra Bernhard takes on characters 
and makes unusual observations about 
religion, racism, andsexism among other, 
less serious issues. Not all of her jokes 
warrant a laugh, but all of them have a 
lot of insight and creativity to back them 
up.
For the devoted Bernhard fan, you 
cant lose with this film. Bernhard has 
included the best portions of her origi
nal, off-Broadway show, including her 
idea of what it would have been like to 
grow up as a gentile. Her new material 
also works well. In one scene she opens a 
nightclub act by brightly announcing 
All right! Were going to start off with 
some Israeli folk songs. She then begins 
to chant and encourges the audience to 
join in.
The comedienne and director John 
Boskovich have mixed classic Bernhard 
material with inspired camera work and 
a few fake interviews with real people 
like actor Steve Antin of the film The Accused. The result is unusual, but also 
lots of fun. Even in the unlikely event 
that you dont laugh once, Bernhard will 
at least get you to think.
Cinema triggers all emotions
CINEMA, from page L9
Toto gets his wish and takes over
Alfredos job.
The movie then jumps ahead to 
Totos adolescence and his first love. 
Then when he is forced to leave Sicily 
with the Italian military, he returns 
to find Alfredo has been committed to 
ahospital. It is during this period that 
he makes his painful decision to leave 
Sicily and never return.
All the actors in this film give firstrate performances, but Philippe Noiret 
shines as the noble but exhausted 
Alfredo and Salvatore Cascio will as
tound you as the tenacious, smart
mouthed fifth grader that Toto once 
was. The relationship between young
Toto and Alfredo is packed with 
touching and humorous moments. 
Alfredo may be nearly fifty years older 
than Toto, but the young boy quickly 
figures out how to manipulate his 
companion and undermine any au
thority Alfredo may have.
If youre lucky enough to under
stand Italian, then Cinema Paradiso 
should be the next film thatyou see. If 
not, dontlet thefact that if s subtitled 
prevent you from seeing one of the 
greatestfilm achievementsofthe past 
decade.The Pittsburgh Playhouse is located at 222 Craft Aue. Showtimes are at 7 pm and 9:15 pm every night until September 20.
PIZZA OUTLET
Welcomes New Students
190 N. Craig St. 
(across from Gulf) 
Hours: Sunday-Thursday 11am- lam 
Friday- Saturday 11am- 2am
687-9555
DAILY SPECIALS
2 Small PizzasCoupon
$5.99
Expires
22
MediumLarge11-15-90
PizzasPizzas
$7.99$9.99
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
0
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
L
Free Medium 
Cheese Pizza
w/purchase of a 
Large Trad. Style
Free Small Gar
lic 
Bread Pizza
w/ anypurchase of 
$5.00 or more
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
.J.
2 HUGE Italian 
Hoagies $7.95
not valid w/ any 
other offer- one 
coupon per order
Study Break 
Special
-Large Pizza 
-1 topping
- 2 cans of coke 
$7.50
* Our Dough is Made Fresh Daily

---------------------------------------------------

lum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyiggg
7t Place
Life at 
Putt-Putt
JOE BOB, from page L10
ago who had the same dreams 
Ben is having, because that 
would prove the demon ex
ists, and ... actually, I dont 
know what this movies about, 
but I watched it twice any
how.
Six breasts. Three dead 
bodies. She-demon. Headchomping. Brainsplitting. 
Slimy squid-leg attack. Footeating. Stickrammed through 
the hand. Head as lawn orna
ment. Assorted zombies. 
Three heads roll. Gratuitous 
voiceover poetry. Telephone 
Fu. Ohio State Fu. Drive-In 
Academy Award nominations 
for Nick Baldasare, as Ben, 
for saying Beyond dreams 
door is where horror lies; Su
san Pinsky, as Zombie T.A. 
Julie, for saying Whats 
wrong? You dont want me to 
drive?; Darby Vasbinder, as 
the nekkid nightmare witchwoman, for saying Youre not 
the first, youre not the last 
youre simply next; Norm 
Singer, as the goofy Professor 
Noxx, for saying Be good to 
your minds, and theyll be 
good to you; and Jay Woelfel, 
for writing, directing, com
posing the music, and mak
ing the first movie about killer 
zombies in purgatory trying 
to get revenge on people who 
dont remember their dreams 
like theyre supposed to. I 
think.
Three stars. Joe Bob says 
check it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and only Drive-In movie critic of Grapevine, Texas.
FINANCIAL
OPPORTUNITY
We are seeking talented students 
enrolled at Carnegie Mellon 
University for distribution 
positions of an exciting new 
patented product geared towards 
college students. EXCELLENT 
financial opportunity, with very 
flexible hours. Perfect for 
business minded students with 
related major. Must be 
outgoing, mature and 
responsible.
Contact: Robert J. Green, Jr, 
Regional Sales Manager, 
Lockman Products Company, 
Inc.
at (412) 683-3562
United States Department 
of State
CAREER OPPORTUNITY
INFORMATION SESSION
FOREIGN SERVICE 
IN THE 90's and the 
Foreign Service Exam 
Wednesday, 
September 12, 1990
Room 12 
Skibo Building
Speaker: Dr. Dennis Skocz 
Career Foreign Sevice Officer
Two Sessions
5:00 - 6:30 p.ni 
6:30- 8:00 p.m.
Info. - Placement Center, 
268-2064
An Equal Opportunity Employer
CASIO
The scientific way 
to go back to school
Curtain falls on Armchair Theater
By MIKE SHAPIROTartan Staffwriter
There now exists a cure for in
somnia: Armchair Theater, the 
newest album by Jeff Lynne.
Lynne was the founder, lead 
singer, and chief songwriter of 
Electric Lights Orchestra, an in
trepid, experimentalist product 
of the 1970s whose music unified 
zesty pop with melodically stal
wart classical themes.
After kicking about with ELO 
until the mid-eighties and then 
doing some production work for 
rock heavies like George Harrison 
and Tom Petty, he went on to 
become the member of the Trav
elling Willburys whom no one 
coidd quite recognize.
Now hes hit the studio and come 
out with an album of his own, and 
the result is such a dreary mass of 
unmelodic goo that one wonders 
'iftiis brain hasnt oozed out his 
'TSSf somewhere during his career.
Lynne has simply recycled a
courtesy Reprise Records
few weary musical archetypes, 
thrown in some hackneyed 
rhymes, and utterly failed to 
produce anything convincing. It 
is painful to hear such abject 
mediocrity from someone who 
has produced some extraordinary 
works in the past.
Lynne attempts a variety of 
techniques in order to guise the 
banality of his offerings, coating 
them in threadbare styles from 
past decades, but to no avail. 
Worse still, the chord patterns
 PIbthO PIy,Iu 
?? ARMCHAIR THEATER. By Jeff 
Lynne, Reprise Records.
sound like a detergent ad; any 
second, some Caucasian house
wife seems ready to float up from 
the ether and accuse him of har
boring ring around the collar.
This mournful affair opens 
with Every Little Thing, a rug
ged guitar-and-sax anthem that 
on several occasions manages to 
swell with a tension hinting at an 
explosive chorus, but then sadly 
dissipates under the high-pitched 
crooning vocals. Dont Let Go 
starts promisingly, with the tone 
of a good-natured, jumpy dance 
fling from the 50s, complete with 
slurring Elvis-like intonations. It 
features some sporadic lapses of 
quiet, after which gales of vocals 
slide in to heighten the sense of 
contrast. Its a cute trick, but the 
weak-bodied chorus makes the
song fall flat.
Nobody Home is graced with 
some interesting, head-bobbing 
percussion, but unsuccessfully 
tries to crossbreed Motown and 
blues with light overtones of funk 
the stylistic equivalent of some 
hideous generic experiment gone 
awry. Now Youre Gone is par
ticularly disappointing, as Lynne 
made such a stink in a recent 
interview about his inclusion of 
native Indian raga singers, and 
all we ever hear from them is the 
occasional dispirited yodel. The 
tone of the song vacillates from 
ominous to innocuous, leaving the 
listener with no firm impression 
except a desire to be listening to 
something else.
The album concludes with Save 
Me Now, an emaciated ballad 
with acoustic guitar that serves 
as the albums obligatory demon
stration of Social Consciousness, 
wherein the Earth gripes and 
moans about her mischievous 
tenants. The perseverant listener
will discover some whiny elec
tronic sound effects on the track 
thirty or so seconds after the song 
mercifully dies out. These are fol
lowed by a muddy, warbling voice
 presumably Lynnes  mut
tering what sounds like, You still 
can, you know, presumably 
meaning, return to National 
Music Mart and get your money 
back.Armchair Theater is an album 
that, if it must be purchased, 
should be purchased by someone 
else. Its a weary, bland effort 
that vainly tries to substitute at
mosphere for content. Lynne sim
ply has nothing to say, musically 
or philosophically.
A few of these songs might be 
forgivable on an otherwise su
perb album, but merely form a 
murky swamp of ineptitude. My 
advice is to forget about this, and 
instead go grab an old ELO great 
like Time and enjoy some Jeff 
Lynne actually worth listening 
to.
THE QUALITY YOU NEED, THE PRICE YOU WANT.
10.97
Db8 TWm8LEeL qn. 98C1m3 k0EC2C5 w1Cm,4
5ChC1 1er1bre5n8 features constant memo
ry, automatic shutoff, convenient user 
memory and fractional capability.
FX250
16.97
Db8 TWm8LEeL qn. 98C1m3 sewCn w1Cm,5ChC1 
wnre80Un.m8mE 1er1brern8 features 125 
functions, 10-digit display, one Indepen
dent memory/6 constant memories.
FX991
74.97
Db8 TWm8LEeL qn. 98C1m3 sewCn Giiif 
28eUuC1 w1Cm,5ChC1 1er1bre5n8 with 193 
functions, 422 program steps, graphic 
functions and 16-character, 8-line display,
FX7000G

---------------------------------------------------

Captain
The United States Marine 
Corps Officer 
Commissioning Programs 
Proudly Congratulates
Christian Bareford 
Allan Bourdius 
Michael Yates
.. .for completing training this past summer. They have thrown down the gauntlet now take the challenge. 
Contact your local Marine Corps Officer Team for more information.
Marine Corps Officer Selection
United States Marine Recruiting 
Officer Selection Office 
Wm S. Moorhead Federal Bldg.
Room 2001 
1000 Liberty Ave.
Pittsburgh, Pa 15222-4179 
Telephone: (412) 644-5817/6310/6359 
or 1-800-999-1775

---------------------------------------------------

lum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyiqgJ
Federman survives CMU
FEDERMAN, from page L9
i'ederman gasped and wondered 
How can you eat?
When discussing heavy metal 
concerts he noted, The dress code 
has changed for concerts. For 
guys, its always the same. Its 
jeans, T-shirt, sneakers. For some 
reason now at heavy metal con[ cierts for women it is nowdress as 
sjlutty as you possibly can imag
ine without regard for height or 
Weight. It doesnt matter. Its like 
everyones a lingerie model toI night.
Federman also told the crowd 
i about an unusual gift he received,
| a book of questions. To the comics 
[ 4ismay, this was not a book of 
| tfrvia questions but an actual book 
of questions with no answers. 
Federman said that what he re; ally needed was a book of an: swers, Where every page is an 
answer to something weve al
ways, always wanted to know. 
Like page one in the book of an
swers, The glass is half empty. 
Page two, The chicken came first. 
 He pretends to leaf through the 
book some more and comes to the 
answer, Of course it makes noise, 
its a fucking tree.
While Federman may have had 
a few rough moments here at 
CMU, he admitted that he had 
fun up on stage.
He also had a few words to say 
about the Highlander Cafe after 
the show. I think it would have 
worked out a lot better if they 
hadnt put pillars up for us to 
have to walk around. And, good 
news for those of you that missed 
him this time, Federman has 
vowed to return to CMU. Im 
going to start a bring down the 
pillars campaign. Ill be back in a 
couple months with posters and 
everything.
arIn8 2nn Restaurant
For take out call:
621-6199
m m
Daily Lunch Special
 one entree over rice 
 with chefs special soup 
 and served with tea 
 and fortune cookie 
 only  $3.79 
Wf.fkknt> Buffet 
All you can eat only-$6.95 
Friday & Saturday 5-9 pm 
Sunday 12-3 pm
4609 Centre Ave.,
N. Oakland/Shadyside Area 
(across from Giant Eagle)
\5ure smart enough to calculate the size of a Hydrogen atom.
aa~WMaL--s2-s Tm>e
_ &6Z 76 
dt - "
 <-V- -
 *0-057- 9/7 Inm
And youre still smoking?
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
Conquer distant worlds in Populous
I Merry Christmas everyone!
; What? You say its not Christ
mas? Well, youre right, sort of.
You see, I know its not Christ
mas, and you know its not 
Christmas, but it looks like some
one forgot to tell all the video 
game companies that its not 
Christmas. For as long as I can 
remember, whenever September 
rolls around all the video game 
companies start releasing their 
big games and new systems. Let 
me show you what I mean....
; Every week, like clockwork, I 
go down to the local mall and 
({heck out the video game store to 
ee whats new. So when this past 
Saturday came around, I hopped 
into my car, checked my cash 
supply, and proceeded directly to 
Ross Park Mall.
I didnt really have high hopes 
for this trip because this summer, 
like all summers before it, there 
\yas a huge drought in the video 
game world (all those little kids 
away at camp/1 suppose). I was 
expecting to find the usual one or 
two new games, feel mild disap
pointment, and then rush off to 
the nearby video arcade to drown 
my sorrows. Boy, was I taken by 
Surprise this week.
As soon as I walked into 
Babbages, new games were at
tacking me from every direction! Columns, Michael Jacksons Moonwalker, Afterburner II, Gyberball, and Super Monaco GP 
quickly jumped off the Genesis 
shelf, into my hands, and started
PRESS START
by Stephen Glicker
to scream, Buy me! Buy me!
I hurriedly threw them down, 
kicked them away, and quickly 
retreated from the Genesis shelf, 
only to find the TurboGrafx-16 
display looming over my head.'
Before I knew what hit me Devils Crush, Psychosis, Splatterhouse, Valis II, Dragons Curse, and Klax all jumped from 
the TurboGrafx-16 shelves, bur
rowed their fangs into my wallet, 
and tried to eat my money. I al
most panicked, but instead shook 
them loose and ran as fast as 
possible to the nearest employee.
Can I help you? a young 
woman asked me with a blank 
stare.
Yes! I shouted. Youve got to 
help me! These new games are 
attacking me from every direct... 
but I trailed off as I spied the new 
Gameboy releases eyeing me over 
her shoulder. I could see Balloon Kid, Gargoyles Quest, and Wizards and Warriors Xgiving me the 
evil eye. Next to them were F-l Race and Penguin Wars, poised 
and ready to pounce.
Ah, never mind, I said as
calmly as possible while taking 
small, even steps back towards 
the door. Ill find what Im look
ing for. She just shrugged her 
shoulders and went back to her 
work. I got out of that just in time, 
for had I stayed a second longer Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Double Dragon would surely have 
gotten me.
However, before I could leave, I 
still had one obstacle to overcome: 
Nintendo! On a normal day the 
Nintendo shelf is overpowering 
enough, stretching as high and 
wide as the eye can see. But today 
with the new games....
Ill spare you the grisly details 
of how I managed to get out of 
that fray, but lets just say that Pinball Quest, Dusty Diamonds All-Star Baseball, Puss N Boots, Pictionary, Mission: Impossible, Heavy Shreddin, Low G Man, Wizardry, Dick Tracy, Dungeon Magic, Rally Bike, Snake Rattle N Roll, Swords & Serpents, and Dr. Mario will all think twice 
before they try and attack me 
again. Anyhow, lets get on with it 
and talk about this weeks game....
The best way to describe Populous for the Genesis is to imagine Sim City, only in this version you 
get to play against a malicious 
opponent!
In Populous you are one of two 
gods trying to help your mortal 
followers dominate the world. You 
play the benevolent god, while 
the computer plays the evil god. 
As the god of the good people, you
Before I knew what hit me, they all 
jumped from the TurboGrafx-16 
shelves, burrowed their fangs into my 
wallet, and tried to eat my money.
can exercise various powers such 
as raising and lowering land, 
creating earthquakes, volcanoes, 
swamps, floods, and even Arma
geddon. Meanwhile, the evil god 
and his people are busy trying to 
do th same to you. Eventually 
there just isnt enough room in 
the world for the both of you, and 
someone has got to go.
In this game, the measure of 
your power is the number of fol
lowers you have. To gain follow
ers, you must create vast areas of 
flat land for your people to raise 
crops and settle upon. The more 
level land around a settlement, 
the larger and more sophisticated 
it can become. Your main goal is 
to try and create as many castles 
as possible, which have the stron
gest defense, the most sophisti
cated technology, and the biggest 
population.
Although you cant directly 
control the actions of your people, 
you can help them in various ways. 
For instance, you can create 
knights which attack and bum 
the evil settlements and leave 
charred, useless land in their 
wake. Or you can create bottom
less swamps which drown trav
elers, destroy crops, and submerge 
whole villages. Or, if worst comes 
to worst, you may choose Arma
geddon, in which all the people 
from both sides march towards 
the center of the world to fight 
one, huge, final battle.
To win a game, you must build 
your followers to such a strength 
that they can wipe out the evil 
dwellers from the face of the earth, 
only to move onto another, more 
difficult level. There are 500 lev
els in all, each featuring different 
terrain and hostile forces.
The graphics in Populous are 
fantastic, making full use of the
16-bit power found in the Genesis 
System  the 3-D effect of the 
land, chock full of settlements, 
wandering people, and burning 
villages is a sight to see. The only 
problem arises after youve been 
playing the game for an hour or 
so, when the game is really packed 
with people and castles, because 
the game has a tendency to slow 
down a little, but usually at this 
point someone wins fairly soon.
The sound effects are harder to 
get into, since there are only per
haps a dozen or so in total. How 
ever, each sound effect is we 
done, "such as the echoing gon 
sound when you create a knigh 
(it sounds almost digitized), 
the crisp burning sound whe 
your knight bums down a nearb 
castle, or the hilarious toile 
flushing sound created whe 
someone walks into a swamp 
There probably could have bee 
more sound effects if the pro 
grammers wanted to put them 
but this game doesnt rely on th 
sound, rather this game relies o 
its gameplay.
Let me warn all you hard-wor! 
ing college students right now 
this game is addictive. Wait, 
me elaborate. This game is very 
addictive. With 500 levels yo 
wont be winning any time soon 
And because each level is com 
pletely different, it doesnt ge 
boring. If you buy this game, ju 
remember the one simple rule tha 
I always follow: play after yo 
finish your work.
For the final evaluation, on 
scale of one to ten, I give th 
graphics an eight, the sound 
seven, and the playability a nin 
Overall I give Populous an eigh
Tune in next week for a revie 
of one of those new games I spok 
of earlier. I didnt escape com 
pletely unscathed from my battl
Tartan Diversions Edito Stephen Glicker deosnt believe Santa Claus, but he does believ in credit cards.
Goldberg links the paintbrush with the machine
Register With Selettive Servile.Its Qui*. H's Easy. And It's The law.
'Jason Digman/Tartan Senior Darkroom Technician 
CMU Alum Ken Goldberg explains his 
unusal painting techinque.
GOLDBERG, from page L9
the theme a little. It was the only paint
ing where Goldberg touched the surface
 a background of swirly red and yellow 
fingerpaints. He then held on to the 
robotic arm as it painted the program of 
a hand, using his fingernail to etch the 
image into the paint already there.Kasparov vs. Deep Thought was an 
important piece to CMU. It was com
prised of a series of three paintings all 
taken from New York Times photographs 
the day the world chess champion de
feated Deep Thought, a chess playing 
computer program developed here. The 
intensity of Kasparovs face studying the 
playing pieces combined with the knowl
edge of the outcome of that match echoes
much of the Goldbergs theme, simplify
ing computers to the advantage of the 
human.
His last piece, Homage to Marcel Duchamp, a crazy arrangement of bluelined polygons, strays from this skill. 
This composition, said Goldberg, was 
generated randomly.... Of fifty such com
positions, I selected this one for its bal
ance and suggestion of depth. This se
lection process is as much the art as the 
painting itself. The computer can paint 
it, but the human eye had to determine 
the merit.
While computers are still being 
scorned, Goldberg concurrently perceives 
a fear and mistrust [of them]. They 
threaten to replace workers and further
de-humanize a culture that is already 
uncentered. He addresses this concern 
through showing humbler elements of 
these machines.
Goldberg emphasized that once the 
line is down on the paper, it no longer 
retains its numerical perfection. Any 
straight line can be expressed math
ematically, but when a line is painted 
with a brush, it is no longer mathemati
cally precise; this inaccuracy is under
scored by the pockets of randomness 
and also the computers inability to draw 
an equilateral triangle.
In a piece aptly titled Equilateral Triangles, Goldberg explained that any 
equilateral triangle must have an irra
tional coordinate, such as the squareroot of three. A computer must round o 
that irrational number, making it in 
herently imprecise. All of this human 
izes the technological aspect of this d 
bated work and brings it closer to th 
artist, a point Goldberg stresses.
My position is that a robot is simply 
fancy paintbrush, said Goldberg. Tha 
is, both are tools controlled by a livin 
breathing artist who has something 
express. Take away the artist and ther 
is no art. A computer can near-accu 
rately duplicate images, but, Goldber 
feels, it will never have the ability 
express itself; it can only enhance th 
artists vision.Doug Brashear contributed to this a ticle.
BEFORE YOU CAN FOLLOW YOUR DREAMS, YOU'VE GOT 10 FOLLOW THE RULES.
Men who don't register with Selective 
Service aren't eligible for federal 
studentaid, job training, and most 
federal employment. So register at 
the post office within a month of 
your 18th birthday. It only takes five 
minutes to fill out a simple card.

---------------------------------------------------

qgSlum le85e, I se8,m2Cm amrrn, I gi MmU5mvtm8 gyyi
Thursday, September 13
Drugstore Cowboy
Very much like the sixties and seventies children, 
Drugstore Cowboys band of junkies depends on 
hallucinogenics and uppers to shun respectability. 
The Bonnie and Clyde quartet, consisting of Bob, 
Dian, Rick, and Nadine, steal morphine from friendly 
pharmacists and pillage Diaduad from local hospi
tals rather than buy drugs through dealers.
Bob narrates the film, exposing the bizarre adven
tures of the group and his own experiences of getting 
high. When Bob decides to rehabilitate himself, his 
friends show they are not only dependent on drugs, 
but on his leadership as well.
Dont bother searching the medicine cabinet for 
useful drug paraphernalia. Drugstore Cowboy will get 
you high.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, September 14
Driving Miss Daisy
Take a sentimental journey that spans three de
cades, from 1948 to 1973. Watch Miss Daisy (Jessica 
Tandy) back her new Chrysler into her neighbors 
garden. See her son Boolie (Dan Aykroyd) hire Hoke 
Colburn (Morgan Freeman) to be her chauffeur.
Proud Miss Daisy is hurt when she is forced to 
become dependent on her black chauffeur, but she 
grows fond of Hoke, and even teaches him how to 
read. Hoke teaches the Jewish southern matron 
about racism and civil rights. Finally, as her mind 
begins to fail, Miss Daisy realizes the man she has 
become dependent on is her best friend (sigh).
Expect many Kleenex moments. Dont be afraid to 
indulge; its worth it.
At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, September 15
9 1/2 Weeks
Always wanted to play master and servant? Em
barrassed to let your loved one know of your kinky 
desires? 9 1/2 Weeks will certainly give him or her 
the hint about your innermost sexual longings.
Mickey Rourke and Kim Basinger portray two 
people involved in an obsessive sexual relationship. 
Rourke manipulates Basingers already unstable 
position, forcing her to tie her wrists together or eat 
strange combinations of food, like red hot peppers 
and cherries. Basinger is not strong enough to walk 
away from Rourkes strange sexual preferences, es
pecially when he showers her with gifts (a great 
exchange  give her a watch and she will dress up 
like a man and drink a mixture of milk and orange 
juice).
The movie is well known for its controversial sex 
scenes, which were cut out before being shown to the 
American public. There are two ways to see this film: 
One, take your date (he or she will either think you 
are extremely frustrated or be relieved that you both 
think alike) or two, by yourself (with a mask over 
your face so you will not be labeled as the campus 
pervert).
At 6, 8,10,12
Sunday, Saturday 16
Return of the Jedi
At the lair of Jabba the Hut (that big, slobbering 
creature), Han Solo is encased in carbon freeze. 
Bikini-clad Prinoess Leia is chained to a throne, 
caught by Jabba in a rescue attempt. So where is that 
new Jedi, Luke Skywalker? Hes got a plan. Trust 
him. But he wont be around to help for long. Soon 
hell be on the planet Dagobah, listening to Yodas 
last words of advice before he faces Darth Vader, 
father or not.
In the last installment of the Star Wars trilogy, the 
Rebel Alliance sets out to destroy a new and improved 
Death Star by bumping off the reactor underneath 
(doesnt this sound familiar?). On this mission, 
Skywalker, Solo, and Leia meet up with the Muppets 
distant cousins  the Ewoks.
The movie displays familiar subplots seen in the 
preceding Empire Strikes Back and Star Wars, but 
still offers much suspense and action for the viewer. 
Ifyouve already seen the first two films, finish off the 
trilogy. You cant find many good sequels, like this 
nowadays.
At 7, 9:30,12
By MARNI BOREK
A summary of upcoming episodes of Carnegie Mellons favorite TV shows.
Regular Network Programs 
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Rebecca is bro
kenhearted, but Sam is thrilled when 
Robin is arrested for insider trading. 
(Part 2 of 2) (Repeat)
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
Doogie is now a third-year resident, 
but its getting in the way of his enjoy
ment of teenage life. Season premiere.
L.A. LAW. Not being shown due to 
the debut of Law and Order.
LAW AND ORDER. Thursday at 
10 pm, channel 11 (NBC). A new 
drama about crime and cops. In the 
opener, a hospital chief resident is 
held responsible for an ER fatality.
QUANTUM LEAP. Now Fridays 
at 8 pm, channel 11 (NBC). Sam is a 
detective in 1969, trying to keep a 
nurse from giving up on her MIA 
husband, who she believes died in 
Vietnam. (Repeat)
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 8 
pm, channel 53 (WPGH). Bart blows 
up Principal Skinners mom and 
single-handedly saves France. (Re
peat)
THIRTYSOMETHING. Not be
ing shown due to a news special on 
the Iraqi conflict.
TWIN PEAKS. Saturday at 10 pm, 
channel 4 (ABC). The investigation 
comes to a terrifying conclusion; Dr. 
Jacoby goes to his meeting with Laura 
Palmer; Catherine and Shelly are 
trapped. (Repeat)
THE * WONDER YEARS. 
Wednesday at8 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
Kevins dad is talking about selling 
the house, while Kevin has to deal 
with goodbyes on the last day of school. 
(Repeat)
Premieres / Previews 
BABES. Thursday at 8:30 pm, 
channel 53 (WPGH). A new comedy 
about the Gilbert sisters (Wendie Jo 
Sperber, Susan Peretz, and Leslie 
Boone), who share a cramped apart
ment in New York. In the opener, a 
night of romance for Charlene is in
terrupted by sisters Darlene and 
Marlene.
THE FAMILY MAN. Tuesday at 
8:30 pm, channel 2 (CBS). Gregory 
Harrison stars in this new comedy as 
Jack Taylor, a fireman and a recently 
widowed father of four, who must 
now deal with trying.to be a single 
parent and occasional visits from his
father-in-law. (Next week, the series 
moves to Saturday.)
THE FANELLI BOYS. Wednes
day at 9 pm, channel 11 (NBC). A new 
comedy from the writing team of The Golden Girls, about four brothers and 
their mother. In the opener, Uncle 
Angelo forces himself to stay out of 
family affairs, even if it means that 
trouble could start.
FERRIS BUELLER. Monday at 
8:30 pm, channel 11 (NBC). A pre
view of the spinoff from the hit film Ferris Buellers Day Off. Ferris be
gins his junior year of high school 
with one eye on a pretty transfer 
student and the other on Principal 
Rooney. Starring Charlie Schlatter.
FRESH PRINCE OF BEL AIR. 
Monday at 8 pm, channel 11 (NBC). 
Rap singer Will Smith plays himself 
in this new comedy about a youth 
sent to live with his rich relatives. In 
the opener, his relatives get a taste of 
his fresh, hip-hop behavior.
GABRIELS FIRE. Wednesday at 
10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). A new series 
preview starring James Earl Jones 
as Gabriel Bird, a man in his 20th 
year of a life sentence for killing his 
partner on the force. In the opener, 
Gabriel meets up with an attorney who works to free him, against Birds
wishes.
Special Programs
AMERICAS MOST WANTED.
Friday at 8 pm, channel 53 (WPGH). 
The popular show about catching the 
criminal is now in a new, one-hour 
format, where the viewer gets to see 
what happens after the criminal is 
caught.
JOSHUAS HEART. Monday at 9 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). A made-forTV movie about a little boy who is 
torn apart when the two people he 
loves most in the world, his father 
and his fathers girlfriend, end their 
relationship. Starring Melissa Gil
bert, Tim Matheson, and Matthew 
Lawrence.
NATIONAL TEST ON CRIME 
PREVENTION. Wednesday at 8 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). According to host 
Kevin Dobson, if circumstances do 
not change, four out of five Ameri
cans will be the target of a violent 
crime. This program is an hour of 
multiple choice, yes/no, and true/false 
questions centered around dramati
zations designed to lessen the chance 
that the viewer will be a victim.
Compiled by DAWN 
BROSONSKI
Before us lies a new day, 
and in the distance a new world, 
ours to create
by the strength of our faith.
Rodef Shalom Congregation invites 
all students to be our guests at worship 
services for the High Holy Days.
RODEF SHALOM
CONGREGATION
Fifth and Morewood Avenues 
Pittsburgh, ms PfhPy
Erev Rosh Hashana
Rosh Hashana Morning 
Erev Yom Kippur
S eptember 19 6:30 PM 
9:15 PM
September 20 10:00 AM
September 28 6:20 PM 
9:15 PM
Yom Kippur September 29 10:00 AM
(services continue throughout the day)
Please call or stop by for complementary tickets in advance, 
621-6566.
15% Off ALL 
REMNANTS
with this coupon
9X12 CARPET on,(douub
McClures 
Carpeting
1701 E. Carson St. 
Southside 381-5140
5 minutes from Oakland 
All styles, colors. 
Room size rugs, remnants
Move 10 years ahead of the class.
PRINT I/O 0DES MEMORY LIBRARY PRV
fMTH fpRG ^ CST ( [VAR ^ f A ^ Amid
UP HOME OEF RCl +Q *NUM GRAPH REVIEW SWAP
i * fsTO EVAL (< ff I ?ta c o p ' Q 
AS a ACOS S ATAN 2 X2 XW 10* LOG ex N
f sin icos [tan fir fyx [Vx$ . T U V W
EQUATION MATRIX EDIT VISIT 20 3D PURGE DROP CtR
 ENTER f*/- v fiix z (DEL
USR ENTRY SCH.VE PLOT ALGEBHA ( ) #
fa f 7 f 8 f 9 f-r
TIME STAT UNfTS C 3 _
fen f4 f 5 [ 6 fx
r- usr ----RAD POUR STACK ARC CMD MENU   rra rr iz (3 rcom off = ? >. *< ir A C>::
fst Fo r  fspc r+
mHEWLETTPACKARD
82211A
HP SOLVE EQUATION UERART
The new HP 48SX and 
a free library card can 
get you there.
With over 2100 built-in functions, our new HP 48SX Scientific Expandable calculator takes a quantum leap into the 21st century. Buy an HP 48SX between August 15 and October 15, 1990, and HP will send you a free HP Solve Equation Library card (a $99.95 retail value).
The plug-in application card alone contains more than 300.science and engineering equations, as well as the periodic table, a constants library, and a multi-equation solver. Its like having a stack of reference books right at your fingertips.
The HP 48SX calculator is so advanced, it will change the way you solve problems forever. It integrates graphics with calculus, lets you enter equations the way you write them, and does automatic unit management.
Check your campus bookstore or HP retailer for HPs range of calculators and special back-to-school offers. Then check out the calculators that are years ahead of their class.
There is a better way.
K
6TdqTll
9xsVxHN
