olume 85, Issue 4Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania24 September 1990
Campus
Police
arrest
student
By RHONDA STRUMINGER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
 Students of Associate Professor 
Cristina Bicchieris Ethical Theory 
ourse witnessed one of their class
mates being arrested Tuesday. An
drew Slusar, a 40-year-old student,
I was taken from class in custody of 
 Carnegie Mellon Campus Police for 
| defiant trespass.
According to Chief of Police James 
LaPaglia, The magistrates office 
for the Oakland area called us and 
inquired about a student. They had 
a warrant for his arrest and ex
pressed urgency that this studentbe 
arrested as soon as possible, as safely 
as possible.
W According to LaPaglia, the 
magistrates office had a record of an 
official complaint from Presbyterian 
University Hospital of defiant tres
pass against Slusar. The 
magistrates office said that Slusar 
had threatened harm to.the hospital 
President, to hospital security, and 
to the magistrate, Judge Diulus.
On September 3, Slusar was adsed by hospital security and Pitts
burgh police to leave the hospital 
grounds after he had been accused of 
harassing a nurse. He was again 
found on hospital property after the 
Earning and was issued a citation.
 According to LaPaglia, Slusar 
^rote a letter to the magistrates 
| office in response to the charges and 
apparently made reference to the 
amount of damage an M-16 assault 
rifle could do.
According to one of the students in 
the class, H&SS junior Dave 
Stitzenberg, The officers came and 
knocked on the door. They were 
Please see ARREST, page 5
CMU founds 
Japan office
By NICOLE BROCKMANN
Tartan News Editor
Carnegie Mellon will soon be
come a name known on both sides 
of the Pacific Ocean with the es
tablishment of an office of the 
university in Tokyo, Japan. The 
office will open its doors to the 
Japanese public one week from 
today.
According to Malcolm Woodall, 
director of corporate and founda
tion relations, the goals of the 
office include increasing the vis
ibility of Carnegie Mellon in Japan 
and providing a contact point for 
Japanese corporations who want 
to know more about the univer
sity. In addition, the office will 
help Carnegie Mellon with joint
research, alumni affairs, and 
fundraising in Japan.
There is an obvious need on 
the part of the University to have 
a physical presence in Tokyo, 
said Woodall. He cited MIT, the 
University of California at Ber
keley, and Boston University as 
universities which already 
maintain Tokyo offices.
According to Woodall, the idea 
for the development of the office 
had its roots in a February trip by 
the administration to Tokyo. The 
trip was arranged by Carnegie 
Mellon trustee Ed Lucente, who 
serves as the vice president of the 
IBM World Trade Asia Corpora
tion in Tokyo.
Plans for the establishment of 
Please see JAPAN, page 4
Men assault 
Pitt student
One singular sensation... 
D.A. Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager
Senior acting major Natalie Belcon performs in the Carnegie Mellon Drama Departments 
production of the 1975 musical A Chorus Line, the longest-running musicals in Broadway history. 
The Carnegie Mellon production opened last Saturday and will run in Kresge Theatre through 
October 6. See story on page L1.
CMOS releases survey results
"Care should be taken to minimize the amount of 
greasy food' offered at the outlet.
____________  CMOS survey report
By RACHEL HAAS
Tartan Staffwriter
, Plans for the proposed food court in the 
Jniversity Center may be shaped partially 
>y information gathered from the Carnegie 
lellon Dining Service customer survey, the 
suits of which have recently been tabujted. enthusiasm for the possible installation of a tects of the University Center project, said
The survey, designed by senior industrial national food chain, and include additional Gurley.
lanagement and applied mathematics and comments. According to SDC Food Committee chair
>perations research major Tony Lalli, with We want as much input from the CMU Erick Naka-Mizrahi, the survey is only the 
lelp from the Student Dormitory Council community as possible so that the food court first step in taking student, faculty, and staff 
?ood Committee, was distributed, between ends up being as well-received as possible, preferences into consideration. Naka-Mizrahi, 
ipnl 23 and May 1 of this year at various said Gurley. Lalli, and Gurley stress unanimously that
ampus dining facilities. Carnegie Mellon According to Lalli and Gurley, however, the they want and need further input from the 
Sirector of Dining Service Jim Gurley com- results of the survey are not the only effort campus community.
mssioned Lalli to design and implement the that has been made to take student sugges- For example, survey results indicate that
survey to find out what types of food and food tions for the proposed food court into account, the top ten possible food themes forthe upcomirvice students want to see in the proposed During this semester, the SDC Food ing food court, in terms of the total number 
iversity Center Food Court. Committee and Dining Service [want] to who chose each item and the average rank
Participants were asked to rank various further solicit ideas from Carnegie Mellon gained by each choice, are, in order: deli, 
food themes and services in order of prefer- students, faculty, and staff in an effort to gourmet grill, Chinese cuisine, Italian cuisine,
By RHONDA STRUMINGER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
A 24-year-old University of 
Pittsburgh student was sexually 
assaulted behind Mellon Insti
tute on Labor Day night.
The victim was sitting in the 
back of the Mellon Institute above 
the loading dock, at the base of 
the pillars, thinking, said Car
negie Mellon Police Chief James 
LaPaglia. After a long while, 
she decided to leave  but half
way home, she changed her mind 
and returned to her thinking 
spot. A short time after her re
turn, two white males ap
proached from the Dithridge side 
of the building. Uncomfortable, 
she got up to walk around to the 
Bellefield side. Her path was 
blocked by a third male who re
fused to let her by. All three 
grabbed her and [brought her] 
inside the row of pillars against 
the wall. The incident is esti
mated to have taken 40 min
utes.
It was not a rape in a tradi
tional sense  many degrading 
things occurred to the victim, 
said LaPaglia.
The victim reported the inci
dent on September 15. A Carn
egie Mellon lieutenant and 
criminal investigator were im
mediately assigned to the case 
full time.
LaPaglia said that it is impor
tant to alert the entire commu
nity that these events are con
tinuing.... It is possible that 
someone saw something that; 
night which they may not have 
thought was anything but could 
be helpful in the investigation.
I would like to point out the 
fact that society in general does 
not seem to be learning, said 
LaPaglia. Wereally wanttourge 
our students to not put themselvesinisolated areas, especially 
at night. Thats why we have the 
shuttle service. Most of these 
types of incidents can be avoided 
 dont be alone.
If you have information which 
may aid this investigation, please 
contact Campus Police at x2323.
pee, indicate on a scale of one to five their provide accurate design criteria to the archi-Please see SURVEY, page 3
Maglev names Cyert head
Former Carnegie Mellon 
President Richard Cyert has 
been named chair of Maglev, 
Inc., a joint venture between 
several Pittsburgh companies, 
public agencies, unions, and 
Carnegie Mellon.The company 
is involved in a two-year study 
of a regional magnetic levita
tion train system. The system 
uses an electrically generated 
field to lift and propel the train 
above the guide way. It may be 
used to link the city to the 
Greater Pittsburgh Interna
tional Airport.
Tartan file photo
Former Carnegie Mellon President 
Richard M. Cyert will chair 
Maglev, Inc.
Inside
; Classifieds..........................15
Comics................................L6
S Diversions........................Lll
f Features...........................LI
Forum...................................6
Sports..................................11
University Calendar......L16
vox Populi........................LI 6
A Student Government 
Presidential Committee pre
sents a pass/fail program.
See page 6.
Delta Gammas Anchor 
Clanker makes a splash for 
charities.
See page LI.
Pittsburgh Then and Now 
compares Pittsburghs past 
with its present for a startling 
effect.
See page L2.
Gene Wilders new comedy 
Funny about Love opens 
around the city.
See page L13.
Rick Antollc/Tartan Photographer 
CMU wide receiver Don DeCaro 
reaches forthe ball whileevading 
a Duquesne University defenseman in Saturdays home game. 
The Tartans defeated Duquesne 
by a score of 31-8. See page 11 
for coverage of the game.
Health dept inspects frats
By MATT ADLER
Tartan Staffwriter
The Allegheny County Depart
ment of Health made an unex
pected visit to Carnegie Mellon 
fraternity houses last Monday, 
surprising both Sigma Nu and Pi 
Lambda Phi.
Although CMU Fraternity 
Maintenance Supervisor Jon 
Humphrey said that there were 
no serious fines and no serious 
infractions, the inspectors, who 
concentrated on the dining fa
cilities, compiled a list of im
provements that must be made.
We were hit on a bad day."
 David Soltesz, 
___________Sigma Nu house manager
According to Director of Hous
ing Tony Martin, the Department 
of Health has given both frater
nities three weeks to make the 
physical changes or show theyve 
been scheduled."
David Soltesz, house manager 
of Sigma Nu, said the inspection 
was a total surprise. The in
spection took place after one of
this years biggest Rush week
ends, so the house was especially 
unprepared. Inspectors checked 
the dumpster, which had been 
well used during clean-up after 
the parties. A food order which 
had just arrived also contributed 
to the disorganization in the 
kitchen. We were hit on a bad 
Please see HEALTH, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 1990
THIS JUST IN...
Bush plans to continue sanctions, warns IraqisCourtsidestepsstatesappeals
SAN FRANCISCO (DJ)  
The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of 
Appeals ruled Wednesday 
that federal energy officials 
may pursue Nevada as a po
tential nuclear waste dump 
site, despite the opposition of 
Nevadas legislature.
The unanimous court deci
sion allows government offi
cials to proceed with a mas
sive environmental study of 
Nevadas Yucca Mountain, 
about one hundred miles 
northeast of Las Vegas, as a 
burial site for radioactive 
wastes. The state has 
mounted several legal chal
lenges to the federal plan since
1987, and the state legislature 
has passed hostile resolutions 
and refused to supply the 
government with necessary 
environmental permits.
The three-judge panel re
jected state arguments that 
the federal government was 
violating constitutional pro
tections of state rights, as well 
as provisions of the U.S. 
Nuclear Waste Policy Act.
In his decision, Federal 
Judge Arthur Alarcon as
serted that the U.S. energy 
secretary was correct in argu
ing that the U.S. Constit
utions 1 Oth amendment does 
not protect a state from being 
outvoted in Congress.
Nevada can appeal the de
cision to the U. S. Supreme 
Court or ask the appellate 
court for reconsideration. 
Nevada officials wouldnt 
comment on their plans.
Federal energy officials 
have said that their site veri
fication study would take 
about six to ten years to com
plete. So far, government re
searchers* attempts to pro
ceed have been stymied by 
the states opposition.
WASHINGTON (DJ)  Presi
dent Bush told reporters that 
economic sanctions will continue 
to be the major component of the 
U.S. strategy against Iraq. In re
marks to reporters at the White 
House Friday as he prepared to 
leave for Camp David for the 
weekend, Bush said that sanc
tions remain our strategy for re
solving the Persian Gulf crisis.
He also said Iraqi support for 
terrorism will have serious con
sequences.
The treatment of U.S. citizens 
is something that concerns me, 
Bush said.
He added that he was very 
much concerned about last 
weeks meeting in Jordan of what 
he called radicals, in which the 
use of terrorism against the U.S. 
was discussed. He called the 
meeting an outrageous confer
ence of radicals.
We will hold Saddam Hussein 
responsible if there is any use of 
terrorism against us, Bush said.
I dont intend to send a signal 
that Im shifting more toward the 
military as a means of ending 
the current conflict, he said.
Using a reporters metaphor in 
answering a question, he said the 
fundamental diplomatic arrow is
We will hold Saddam Hussein respon
sible if there is any use of terrorism 
against us.
 President George Bush
not fully in the air. He called 
economic sanctions the major 
thrust of our policy.
But he added that Im not 
making any commitments, one 
way or another about the use or 
lack of military force.
He said the U.S., France, and 
the United Kingdom would con
tinue to move troops into the area.
In response to a question con
cerning Congressional worries 
about the size of the admin
istrations proposed sale of arms 
to Saudi Arabia, Bush said he 
was willing to discuss details of 
the administration proposal.
Most feel that Congress and the 
White House should communi
cate, he said.
He also said that in meetings 
with legislators he stressed the 
unique importance of the Egyp
tian contribution to the effort in 
the Persian Gulf. He reiterated 
his support for forgiving some $6
billion that Egypt owes the U.S. 
for prior purchases of U.S. arms.
Concerning U.S. hostages held 
by Iraq, Bush said he had no new 
reports of their situation in the 
last few days. Interviews with 
refugees fleeing Iraq and Kuwait, 
however, invoke a sense of out
rage about Iraqi treatment of 
citizens.
President Bush said he told 
congressmen of his deep and 
growing concern over what Iraq 
is doing to Kuwait.
President Bush also refused to 
criticize what many have seen as 
a tilt by Iran toward Iraq, saying 
it appeared Iran was generally 
abiding by the United Nations 
sanctions against Iraq.
So far it appears to me Iran is 
doing what Iran said it would do, 
Bush said.
However, he added there was 
maybe some leakage allowing 
some trade between the nations.
U.S. seizes business 
operated as Iraqi front
CLEVELAND (AP)  A ma
chine tool company seized by 
authorities was a front for 
Saddam Hussein to disguise the 
flow of technology from this 
country to Iraq, a U.S. Customs 
official said Thursday.
Its an agent, a front, what
ever you want to call it. The 
thrust of its business does carry 
everything to Iraq, said 
Stephen Hartkop, a Customs 
official in Cleveland.
On Monday, federal agents 
seized Matrix Churchill Corpo
ration in Solon, a Cleveland
suburb. They sent its 12 work
ers home, closed its doors and 
froze its bank accounts.
The Cleveland Plain Dealer 
quoted Customs Commissioner 
Carol Hallett as saying the 
company was purchased by 
Iraqi interests for the specific 
purpose of illegally acquiring 
critical weapons technology.
U.S. Customs officials in 
Cleveland refused to confirm or 
deny the papers report, saying 
only that the company was the 
subject of a Customs investiga
tion.
Jordan wants U.S. pullout
WASHINGTON (AP)  
Jordans King Hussein warned 
Saturday that the U.S. must 
pull its troops out of Saudi 
Arabia as soon as possible to 
avert death, destruction, and 
misery.
The White House has not re
sponded to Husseins remarks,
which were broadcast on CNN 
Saturday afternoon. However, 
U. S. Representative Jim Leach, 
a senior member of the House 
Foreign Relations Committee, 
said that while he respects the 
Kings peace initiative in the 
region, his message must be 
questioned.
Bush refutes Dole on budget
WASHINGTON (DJ)  The White 
House, seeking to counter an attempt by 
Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole (RKan.) to shift the focus of budget talks 
away from the capital gains issue, said 
that the Bush Administration hasnt 
changed any ofits views onbudgetmatters.
In a terse statement, White House deputy 
press secretary Roman Popadiuk said that 
President Bushs position on entitlements, 
budget process reforms, taxes, and growth
incentives all remain unchanged.
The remarks appeared to be a response 
to Doles suggestion of a two-track legisla
tive 'Strategy to get around a months-long 
impasse in budget talks that hinges largely 
on Bushs demandfor alower capital gains 
tax. Under the plan the capital gains tax 
cut would be separate from any deficit 
reduction plan and combined into a 
package with Democratic spending initia
tives.
Recycle!
City starts mandatory program
U. N. officials consider air embargo 
to tighten sanctions against Iraq
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc.
UNITED NATIONS (AP)  Diplomats 
are discussing a proposed United Nations 
Security Council resolution which would 
impose an air embargo against Iraq, halt 
Iraqi ships, and freeze assets.
A tentative draft resolution has been re
ferred to the capitals of the five permanent 
members of the Security Council for comment 
and revision, diplomats said.
No meeting has been set for adoption, but
diplomats said they expect a high-level Se
curity Council meeting to be held this week
 probably Wednesday, when foreign min
isters will be in New York for the General 
Assembly.
The five permanent council members, the 
U.S., Britain, China, France, and the Soviet 
Union, all have agreed in principle on the 
need for an air embargo to tighten existing 
sanctions.
By JEFF ROSENBLUM
Special to The Tartan
Curbside recycling begins in the north 
and west sections of Pittsburgh today. 
Residents will place all recyclables into 
blue bags, which will be picked up at the 
curb on the same day as trash removal.
Pennsylvanias Act 101 mandates that 
municipalities with more than 10,000 
residents begin recycling by September 
26. Since Pittsburgh will not be recycling 
in all areas by the deadline, the City may 
face fines from the Commonwealths De
partment of Environmental Resources. 
However, a City official speaking on 
condition of anonymity said that the City 
and the DERhave reached an agreement 
that will prevent any fines from being 
levied.
All food and beverage cans, glass and 
plastic bottles, jugs, and jars are to be 
placed in blue plastic bags, which can be 
purchased at most grocery stores. These 
blue bags may not be used for ordinary
trash.
Mayor Sophie Masloff calls the sy. 
tem, economical, efficient, simple an 
neat. The program will cost the cit
 about $1 million per year. Opponents 
the program advocate separation attb 
home, which they claim would be 
cheaper system. However, Maribet 
Rizzuto feels that the flexibility of tb 
blue-bag program will save the Citi 
money in the long haul.
The eastern section of the City, incluo 
ing Shadyside and Squirrel Hill, willb 
phased into the curbside program ner 
April, while the central section, incluc 
ing Oakland, will come on-line in Jul; 
followed by the southern section in Oc 
tober 1991.
Voluntary drop-off centers will be ei 
tablished in areas where curbside recj 
cling is not available. Locally, blue bag 
full of recyclables can be taken to th 
Frick Nature Center at 2005 Beechwoot 
Boulevard from 9 am to 2 pm on Satur 
days.
Who
Student Affairs and Focal Point Killed Focal Point, the Asian Student Issues Collective
A film by Christine Choy and Renee Tajima W W   W introduction by
Presented by Division Of Eugene Levy Professor of History
  Informal Discussion by
Refreshments will be served
Vincent 
Chin?
Tuesday, 4-6 pm Adamson Wing, 
Baker Hall
C arnegiMl orUMvestyg, yPrMt tbe vMgoeg ri y ubhsemepCveghUys 
hs cdOSH nbhUb yttgyUteo sythrsyl veohy yttesthrsf ubhs nym PgMtyll, vMgoegeo yt y Betgrht Pyg 
P, lyhoprii yMtrnrgwegm nbr byo vhmtywes bhv ym Iyaysemef qbe vMgoeg agrDrwem UrsUegs yPrMt 
gyUhyl ageRMohUeH Ughvhsyl RMmthUeH IyayspCveghUy tgyoe tesmhrsmH yso mhval, y ohmtMgPhs! whllhs!f
September 25,1990

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 19903
Campus stores accumulate $1.5 M
The customers who put those funds 
in place should benefit from them. 
 Stephen Schillo, 
director of campus services
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Reserve funds for Carnegie 
Mellon campus stores  includ
ing the bookstore, the art store, 
laundry, the co-op, Entropy, and 
the Carnegie Shoppe  have 
grown to $1.5 million, adminis
trators say.
According to Stephen Schillo, 
director of campus services, these 
reserves have been in existence 
since the the stores were opened. 
Since the retail units  like the 
bookstore  have been in exist
ence longer than the convenience 
units, their reserve fundis larger.
There are no plans to use the 
retail stores reserves for the 
general university operations. 
These services are neither sup
ported by nor spin off income to 
the Universitys other budgets, 
said Schillo.
Each auxiliary service, ex
plained Schillo, sets aside part of 
its budget as a reserve. These 
reserves are earmarked for unan
ticipated operating or capital ex
penses which may be necessary.
At the end of each year, if the
reserve funds for an individual 
service have not been used, they 
are transferred into one of two 
master reserves, one for the con
venience stores and one for retail 
shops. The convenience master 
reserve, including reserves from
Entropy, the co-op, and laundry, 
is currently. about $200,000; the 
retail master reserve fund is now 
at the $1.3 million mark.
The customers who put those 
funds in place should benefit from 
them, said Schillo. Those funds
arent going anywhere but for 
those functions.
The funds could be used for 
some new items later on, though. 
This year, for instance, the Uni
versity is discussing a possible 
replacement for the Validine 
system. Schillo says that part of 
the funds will come from the 
capital contingency funds set 
aside in this years budgets by 
each organization.
Part of the funds are being held 
to equip the spaces for these units 
in the University Center, accord
ing to Schillo. All of the retail
stores will share space in the 
Center.
To the extent that the funds 
can make a contribution [to the 
University Center], I think that 
they should, he said.
This fiscal years reserve bud
get allocations for auxiliar ser
vices include a $16,000 operations 
reserve and a $50,000 capital re
serve for the bookstore; $16,000 
in operations and $75,000 in capi
tal reserves for the Carnegie 
Shoppe; and $1,100 in operations 
and $10,000 in capital reserves 
for the art store.
CMDS 
addresses 
concerns
By LAURIE WILKISON
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon Dining Service and 
the Student Dormitory Council Food 
Committee are now attempting to ad
dress students complaints ofinefficiency 
in the serving fines, high noise levels, 
and general disorganization of the 
Highlander Cafe.
One of the most common complaints 
among students is that the lines to get in 
and be served at the Highlander are 
often long and disorganized.
Erick Naka-Mizrahi, chair of the SDC 
Food Committee, responds that the 
number of students eating at the High
lander is disproportionately high at this 
time, most likely because the cafe is new 
and it is still the beginning of the year. 
Both Naka-Mizrahi and Gurley predict 
that attendance at different dining fa
cilities will even out as the year 
progresses.
Hopefully, Morewood will recapture 
the numbers they used to have when the 
weather gets worse, added Gurley.
Gurley attributes some of the confusion 
and disorganization of the lines to the 
fact that everyone, employees as well as 
students, are dealing with a situation 
that is new and unfamiliar. CMDS is 
also working on installing clearer and 
more strategically placed signs to help 
students find the lines they need to be in 
for particular foods.
Gurley explained that when designing 
the facility, the architects hoped to have 
a less formal and non-linear set-up to the 
new cafe to give it less of a standard 
cafeteria atmosphere.
CMDS releases 
survey results
D.A. Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Many students regularly experience long lines and overcrowding at the Highlander 
Cafe. CMDS Director James Gurley hopes that new signs will help solve the problem.
The ability to walk at random where 
you want to go was part of the design 
concept, said Gurley.
Gurley wants to try putting up new 
signs to direct and reduce traffic before 
implementing more formal measures, 
such as structured serving lines.
I want to get signs in place before 
starting anything like theatre ropes or 
more structured lines.... Its not uncom
mon this time of year to see lines at the 
all-you-can-eat facility even when they 
were linear like Kiltie.
We are serving numbers we projected 
we would have to.... There is no surprise 
to us at this time, said Director of CMDS 
James Gurley. His main focus now is to 
refine things and respond to little con
cerns.
According to Gurley, CMDS is also 
working on other aspects of improve
ment, including the amount of food pre
pared and kept on hand at meal times so 
that the cafeteria doesnt run out of more 
popular items.
In response to complaints that the 
dining room is overly noisy, Gurley said
that plans are in the works to put 
dampening boards on the walls to reduce 
the amount of reverberation. He cau
tioned, however, that this change may 
not be immediate.
CMDS is also working on plans for 
finishing the decor of the Highlander. He 
stressed that he is very open to ideas 
about the way Highlander should look.
We really need to put the finishing 
touch on aesthetics and I think thats 
something the students should be a part 
of, said Gurley.
The Food Committee and CMDS are 
aware of the major concerns students 
have regarding the Highlander because 
the committee meetings are a chance for 
students to voice their thoughts. We do 
our best to keep the communication 
open, said Naka-Mizrahi.
Students are encouraged to bring up 
comments or questions at the next Food 
Committee meeting or to contact Gurley 
or their SDC representative directly. The 
next SDC Food Committee meeting will 
be October 4 at 4:30 pm in Skibo room 
105.
SURVEY, from page 1
Mexican cuisine, salads, bakery prod
ucts, pizza, fast food, and frozen des
serts.
According to the survey, the preferred 
style of service is limited self-service, 
and most respondents are enthusiastic 
about the possible installation of a na
tional restaurant chain.
Even these tabulated preferences, 
however, are not set in stone, said 
Gurley. According to Gurley, surveyed 
preferences for the food court are subject 
to change  even years from now, after 
the University Center has been com
pleted.
We do encourage members of the Car
negie Mellon community to express their 
thoughts now, when the flexibility in the 
project design is greatest, Gurley said.
Naka-Mizrahi agreed that student in
put is very important to the develop
ment process.
We hope that once members of the 
campus community see the basic trend 
of preferences indicated by the survey, 
they will also see what it is about those 
trends they disagree with and contact 
either the SDC Food Committee or Din
ing Service with their own suggestions 
and ideas, he said.
According to Lallis Customer Survey 
Report, of 1011 surveys distributed, 682 
were returned and tabulated, a response 
rate which according to Lalli is fairly 
representative of those members of the 
campus community who regularly dine 
on campus.
One of Lallis recommendations for 
incorporating as many of the top ten food 
themes as possible into the approxi
mately five different outlets proposed 
for the food court is to designate one
outlet for the top choice deli and a 
second outlet for the second choice gour
met grill.
With the third, fourth, and fifth choices 
being Chinese, Italian, and Mexican food, 
respectively, Lalli suggested making a 
third outlet inclusive of all international 
cuisine and rotating the nationalities on 
a frequent, predictable schedule.... Japa
nese, Greek, and Indian cuisines were 
[also] suggested for inclusion.
Lalh also recommends that a fourth 
outlet be a near duplication of Salads 
Plus, including in addition vegetarian 
foods that respondents added to the 
other category of the surveys food theme 
list.
Lalli also suggested that the bakery be 
incorporated into the salad outlet.
The fifth outlet, according to the sur
vey results, [could be] either a pizza or a 
fast food outlet, Lalli said.
Some national franchises suggested 
in the questionnaire were Pizza Hut Ex
press, McDonalds, T.C.B.Y., Taco Bell, 
and Haagen-Dazs. According to the Sur
vey Report, nearly three-fourths (72%) 
of the survey respondents were either in 
favor of or indifferent to the opening of a 
franchise in the University Center. ;
According to the survey report, the 
fifth outlet could also be a fast food facility, 
although care should be taken to mini
mize the amount of greasy food offered 
at the outlet.
Overall, many respondents demanded 
healthier food. One student commented 
that salads should not be the sole extent 
of the universitys health food. Another 
requested, simply, Variety.
Anyone interested in submitting design 
ideas or suggestions for the food court 
should contact CMDS at x2128.
Undergraduate research 
directory available
The second edition of the Directory of Opportunities for 
Undergraduate Research and Creative Projects is now available 
to students, according to Barbara Lazarus, associate provost for 
academic projects. The newly updated version of the directory 
lists special programs and courses offered as well as each faculty 
member and departments research interests and focuses.
The directory is located on a Macintosh AppleShare server, 
allowing students and faculty to access it from nearly any Macin
tosh on the campus network. Hard copies of the directory are 
located in the offices of the deans of the colleges, the university 
libraries, the Academic Advisory Center, and the Skibo Informa
tion desk. Posters are also located around campus and in each 
department.
CFA renovations begin
Construction on the five niches on the facade of the College of 
Pine Arts is currently underway.
Originally designed to display the five eras of architecture, 
Greek, Roman, Gothic, Renaissance, and Moorish, the facade has 
remained unfinished since the early 1900s. Only one niche, that 
which exemplifies the Renaissance era, has been completed.
The main doors to CFA may be unusable at times while the 
construction progresses.
A Hewlett Gallery show features the plans of the first Dean of 
the College of Fine Arts, Henry Hombostel, for the facade, as 
well as plans envisioned during a 1987 study of the possibilities 
f completing the facade.
Senate to hold town meeting
Student Senate will hold the first of a series of student organi
zation town meetings today at 4 pm in Skibo room 12. Leaders 
f Student Senate have devised this set of meetings as an oppor
tunity for organizations to meet with student government
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
periodically to discuss problems and concerns.
The ultimate goal of the project, according to Student Senate 
Chair Chris Neighbor and Activities Board Chair Chris Smith, is 
to increase communication between Senate and student organi
zations. Todays meeting will deal with the organization of 
Student Senate and its role in on-campus and Activities Board
CMU re-examines H&SS 
core curriculum
Carnegie Mellon is one of 27 institutions chosen to participate 
in a project sponsored by the National Endowment for the 
Humanities called Engaging Cultural Legacies: Shaping Core 
Curricula in the Humanities.
Students in liberal arts offerings should be more able to see 
connections between literature, history, and languages than is 
now the case. Our goal is to encourage and enable key humani
ties disciplines to share overlapping issues and materials, said 
Associate Dean of H&SS Jay Devine.
Carnegie Mellon will look towards improving its H&SS core 
curriculum and developing new courses to help integrate re
search discoveries into history, literature, and language courses. 
Professors will build the new information into traditional hu
manities courses. Carnegie Mellon will work with Washington 
State University on this project.
Academic Computing offers 
statistics software courses
The department of Academic Computing and Instructional 
Technology has announced a new series of seven courses in 
statistical software packages. The courses are designed for 
persons who have a basic knowledge of statistics and whose work 
involves statistics and data analysis. Registration is available for 
single classes, a combination of classes, or all seven courses. All 
courses are offered free of charge to the campus community.
The courses will be held on Fridays from 2:30-3:30pm, begin
ning on September 21, in Baker Hall 355. To reserve a place, call 
Academic C omputing at x5630.
Student Affairs sponsors 
world issues programs
Student Affairs is sponsoring programs through which stu
dents and the campus community can explore local, national, and 
international issues. Titled The Gathering Storm, the series of 
programs take place from 4-6 pm on every other Tuesday.
The next program, which will take place on September 25, is ! 
the film Who Killed Vincent Chin? The film will be shown in th 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall. A discussion on Japanese-Ameri-' 
can relations, led by professor Eugene Levy, will follow the film: 
Refreshments will also be served.
For more information, contact the Division of Student Affairs ; 
at x2073.
Writers Bloc invites writers 
and editors to attend
All writers and editors from the Carnegie Mellon community are 
invited to the next Writers Bloc session.
The group will discuss the use of writing style guides in invita
tions, advertisements, feature articles, brochure copy, and inter
office correspondence, and the best formats and uses for these 
guides.
The meeting will be held Thursday, September 27, from l-2pm, in 
the ITC conference room on the second floor of the University 
Computing Center.
Correction ...
Sunday Mass is celebrated at noon Sundays in Heinz Chapel 
and Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm atCamegie Mellons 
chapel (Skibo 39).
In last weeks story, Students react to Gulf crisis, Karim 
Hussein should have been reported as a Carnegie Mellon 
junior.

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 1990
University opens Tokyo office
JAPAN, from page 1
the office wavered slightly when 
President Emeritus Richard M. 
Cyert left office at the end of June. 
His successor, Robert Mehrabian, 
however, made a quick decision 
to go ahead with the plans.
Administrators say the Tokyo 
office will help Carnegie Mellon 
by establishing a foothold for the 
university in Japan. It may also 
help in securing funds for research 
to be conducted here.
Forthe Japanese, this isaprime 
opportunity to access a worldclass university and gain a place 
in the Pittsburgh/Western Penn
sylvania market.Theres a lot of 
interest with the J apanese to move 
into the Pittsburgh area, said 
Woodall.
Those administrators who 
traveled to Tokyo in February 
witnessed the first meeting of the 
Japanese Alumni Association,
Theres a lot of interest with the 
Japanese to move into the Pittsburgh
area.
 Malcolm Woodall, 
director of corporate relations
made up of 92 Carnegie Mellon 
alumni. Carnegie Mellon Presi
dent Robert Mehrabian noted the 
assistance of the Japanese alumni 
in developing the office.
I think the office, if it goes well, 
will be a place where graduates 
[of Carnegie Mellon] can get in
formation about the University, 
said Woodall.
The alliance will enable many 
Japanese corporations to offer 
new research and education op
portunities to their employees.
Woodall said that many current 
GSIA students are also current 
employees of companies.
The office, which will be run by 
GSIA alumnus Fumio Frank 
Mitani, will only operate 20 hours 
a week for the first six months, 
after which an evaluation will be 
made to determine if additional 
support is needed.
Woodall, who will work with 
Mitani from the American side, 
also plans to work closely with 
the deans of the individual col
leges here at Carnegie Mellon in 
compiling information which may 
be needed in running the office.
Carnegie Mellon is fairly de
centralized in its information, 
he said. What will be involved is 
going to the colleges, sitting down 
with the deans, and asking a se
ries ,of questions about the 
colleges history and records of 
working with the Japanese.
This information will enable 
Woodalls office to compile a da
tabase containing a large pool of 
knowledge and records which 
would be available at one location 
and which many people could 
access.
Woodalls office is generally re
sponsible for developing relation
ships with corporations and 
foundations on a national basis. 
He estimates that the University 
has dealt with at least 350 cor
porations worldwide.
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor
Parlez-vous franca is?
Lara Ghorra and Peng Wa Ng converse at the International Spouses 
Organization welcoming dinner last Friday. The group is part of the 
Office of International Education, which opened in 1989.
Crime and Incident Report
9/14 MEDICAL ES
CORT, 8:29 pm. While 
studying at the library, a 
student placed a small piece 
of paper in his right ear to 
have complete silence. The 
student could not remove the piece of 
paper by himself and requested trans
portation to a medical facility.
9/14 THEFT, time unknown. On or 
about April 8, Deagan orchestra bells, a 
Musseler Kelon xylophone, and a Leedy 
snare drum were stolen from the College 
of Fine Arts. All have now been recov
ered and the Music Department plans to 
pursue criminal charges against the pro
fessed thief.
9/15 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 
2:09 am. A Campus Police officer on 
patrol on Forbes Avenue observed two 
men who were acting in a suspicious
manner by a car. One of the men was 
observed throwing two bottles from be
hind a car into the parking area, where 
they broke. The second man was in the 
process of pulling his zipper down when 
he was sighted by Campus Police. Upon 
seeing the officer, the men ducked beside 
a car and then began to flee. They were 
ordered to stop but continued to run 
away. They were eventually appre
hended and taken to Baker Hall, where 
they were issued internal citations for 
disorderly conduct.
9/15 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 
2:44 am. Campus Police, informed of a 
fight in the fraternity driveway behind 
Sigma Nu, found a group of Sigma Nu 
brothers squared off against a group of 
Pi Lambda Phi brothers. Both houses 
were screaming obscenities and threats 
at each other, but Campus Police did not
witness any actual punches being 
thrown. Both groups were ordered back 
into their respective houses without in
cident. Both houses will be forwarded 
citations through Student Affairs for 
disorderly conduct.
9/15 MEDICAL, 3:31 pm. A student 
injured his left shin when he ran into 
another student while running down the 
second floor hallway of Hamerschlag 
House. The other student had just 
stepped into the hallway and the first 
student did not see him.
9/15 MEDICAL, 8:53 pm. Two Alpha 
Tau Omega brothers were wrestling and 
one was thrown to the ground. He struck 
his face on the ground and suffered lac
erations to his forehead, nose and right 
cheek. The injured brother was taken to 
Presbyterian University Hospital for 
treatment.
9/17 THEFT, 9:20 pm. A student lost 
his student identification card at Delta 
Upsilon fraternity while on the water 
slide. He said that he had a second card 
and when he tried to use it, he discovered 
that he had $36.10 less in his campus 
account than he did before losing his ID 
card.
9/18 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 10:21 
am. A student reported that person(s) 
unknov^n shot a BB gun pellet through 
the left rear side, window of his 1985 Red 
Volkswagon. No other damage to the 
vehicle was found.
9/18 THEFT, 2:52 pm. A representa
tive from the Activities Board reported 
last weekend that $20 was stolen from 
the movie receipts for the three movie 
showings on Friday night and $60 was 
stolen from the receipts of Sundays 
movie. The Activities Board noticed that
the money was missing when the movie, 
receipt totals counted on the day of the! 
movie did not match the totals whenj 
counted the following day.
9/21 UNAUTHORIZED PERSON, 
1:41 am. Sigma Nu members phoned 
Campus Police and requested that a 
woman be removed from the fraternity 
house. The woman was not a Carnegie 
Mellon student and was intoxicated when 
the officers arrived. She said that she 
was with one of the brothers but had 
been banned from the fraternity due to 
an earlier incident. Her escort acknowl
edged that she was his invited guest to 
the house but said that she was now on 
her way home. Campus Police confiscated 
her keys because of her intoxicated state 
and drove her to her home.
Compiled by 
RHONDA STRUMENGER
SUBWAY'S
GRAND OPENING 
SALE!
Buy any footlong sub
and get your second
FREE
Subway has opened new 
doors and were celebrating. 
When you buy a footlong 
sub, well give you
61$01,2
415 S. Craig Street
Oakland, PA 15213 
(412) 687-6728
a second one - FREE! 
Now thats a deal you can 
really sink your teeth into.
No Coupons Necessary
OnSeptember 27th & 28th 1990
Second footlong sub must be of equal or lesser price *With purchase of a 22oz. soft drink.
HALF FOOT 
MEATBALL SUB 
for
99
with purchase of 
Medium Drink
OFFE EXPIRES
10/15/90
BUY ANY 
HALF FOOT 
SUB for
$1.99
with purchase of 
Medium Drink
OFFER EXPIRES 
10/15/90
r~
BUY ONE FOOTLONG 
and get another 
FOOTLONG for
99with purchase of 
22oz. Drink
SUB
OFFER EXPIRES 
10/15/90

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan k Carnegie Mellon  24 September 1990
Health dept 
inspects frats
HEALTH, from page 1
day, Soltesz said.
The inspectors were thor
ough, checkingthe kitchen, food 
storage areas, bathrooms and 
behind the bar, Soltesz said. No 
fines were issued; however, 
some of the necessary changes 
may be costly.
Responsibility for every re
pair or replacement does not 
fall solely on the shoulders of 
the fraternities. As per each 
houses lease agreement with 
the housing department, 
maintenance and repair of the 
built-in kitchen appliances are 
handled by the University.
The costs incurred by the 
University in implementing any 
of the recommendations will 
come from the fraternities lease 
payments.
All fraternities will get the 
service they require, although 
the expenses may vary from 
house to house, said Martin.
Jon Caron, vice-president and 
house manager of PiLam, said 
that most houses will probably 
need an entirely new hand
washing sink for the cooks; this 
was the case for both PiLam 
and Sigma Nu. Both fraterni
ties may also need new 
sanitizers.
Otherrecommendationswere 
less severe. At PiLam, some 
exposed wood needs to be 
painted and a refrigerator 
should be removed from the 
kitchen.
The inspections were not 
random. Carnegie Mellon was 
notifiedthis past December that 
all fraternities and sororities in 
the county were henceforth go
ing to be classified as boarding 
houses. The regulation which 
now pertains to fraternities and 
sororities requires each house 
to have a permit; in order to 
receive a permit the house must 
pass a state inspection.
This is a surprise to the stu
dents, said Martin. In addition 
to maintaining our require
ments, they are now obligated 
to meet requirements from a 
city agency.
The Department of Health 
will make two unannounced 
inspections per year. Every 
fraternity and sorority must 
give health officials access to 
the house whether or not they 
have been given notice that an 
inspection is imminent. In the 
future, fraternities should ex
pect at least one inspection per 
semester.
Sigma Nu had been notified 
over the summer of the upcom
ing inspections. We knew they 
were coming, we just didnt 
know When, said Soltesz.
Gary McMaster, president of 
PiLam, said that he was glad 
someone would be in to inspect 
the house. He feels the inspec
tions will motivate us to keep 
[the kitchen] clean as well as 
make the school maintain the 
equipment.
Caron and Sigma Alpha Ep
silon assistant house manager 
Gerard Zeller, claimed that oc
casionally they needed to submit 
more than one work order in 
order to receive service from the 
University.
There is a lackadaisical at
titude with Housing, said 
Zeller.
Campus Police arrest student
ARREST, from page 1
plain-clothed and called the teacher out 
into the hall. After a couple of minutes, 
Professor Bicchieri called the guy out into 
the hall. He got up and walked out. Later, 
another man came in and picked up the 
guys books and knapsack. That was all I 
saw ... but the teacher said that they took 
him away in handcuffs. She also said some
thing about him being dangerous.
CIT sophomore Julian Hollingshead was 
seated close to the door and could see the 
teacher out in the hall with the officers. 
Hollingshead said that the teacher explained 
that the reason they wanted to comer him 
in this class was because its a small class 
and because hes definitely dangerous. 
What we had was a constable out of 
Judge Diulus office with an arrest warThat was all I saw... but the teacher said that 
they took him away in handcuffs.
 Dave Stitzenberg, 
____________________________________H&SS junior
rant, said LaPaglia. Normal procedure is 
to have any outside agency wait while we go 
and make contact with the student.
In this particular case, we did not want 
to go into the classroom. So, we asked the 
teacher to call the student out into the hall. 
It was during class to avoid any possible 
conflict with student crowds in the halls. 
The student was very cooperative and there
were no problems at all; he had very little to say. 
However, he may have reacted differently if the 
arrest was in a crowded hallway in front of a lot 
of students.
Slusar was taken to the magistrates office' 
immediately after his arrest. He was placed un
der $10,000 bond at the Allegheny Jail and has - 
been ordered to undergo behavioural clinic 
evaluation.
Student Senate Minutes
Minutes of September 18,1990
Senators present: Austin, 
Barnes, Blake, Bucholtz, 
Dautermann, Dean, Gelman, 
Golembiewski (late), Kadesh 
(late), Kaufman, Lewis, Loomis, 
Meek, Neighbor, Rubinstein, 
Shaeffer, Shin, Stocker, Venable, 
Wyatt.
Senators absent: Handrinos, 
Hoffman, Metz, Moran, Robe, 
Ruben, Stocker.
Senators excused: Spivack, 
Zucker.
Ex-Officios present:
Ginsberg, Kelly, MacDonald, Rao, 
Smith, Dean Witchner.
Activities Board: The Gradu
ate Student Organization has 
agreed to fund a new sound sys
tem for DH 2210 where all of the 
weekend movies are shown.
Greek Council: Paint Your 
Heart Out was a big success. In
stead of just painting the one 
house, the group painted and 
reguttered two houses. Greek 
Council wishes to express its dis
satisfaction with Tartan cover
age of this event. It seems that 
The Tartan said it would cover 
the story in more detail than what 
actually occurred.
Student Affairs: Student Af
fairs is having a series of Funding 
Research Programs. Senators 
should attend these. Student Af
fairs is also working on various 
programs; look for advertising. 
Orientation is even still going on. 
Throughout the semester, coun
selors and first-year students will 
be meeting with 25 faculty mem
bers in hopes of improving the 
faculty/student relations.
Student Government Presi
dent  Kishore Rao: Lisa 
Mathis is heading the Fine Arts 
Group. They will meet and set an 
agenda. The Undergraduate 
Education Group, headed by Lisa 
Melenyzer, met last week and 
formed their agenda. The Uni
versity Center Group is headed 
by Michael Ewedosh. They are 
hoping to have students work
more with the development of the 
Center. And the Quality of Life 
Group will meet next week.
Funding and Recognition 
Sateria Venable: Fall Budget 
packets were distributed to orga
nizations. There will be a meet
ing on Monday at 8pm. Ultimate 
Frisbee is requesting a loan for 
$1,000.
Public Relations  Mark 
Shaeffer: Happy Hours will be 
scheduled for some time in Octo
ber and November.
New Business: The Ultimate 
Frisbee Team is requesting $1,000 
to cover the cost for printing some 
frisbees for sale. They sold over 
400 last year. The team just needs 
the capital to cover printing costs, 
and there will be no problem in 
paying back the money as they 
made $2,600 last year. A motion 
was made to accept by acclama
tion with no objections.
General Business: The fig
ures given to The Tartan were 
inaccurate. It is estimated that
Senate has approximately 
$18,000 to work with this semes
ter.
There was some discussion on 
PSAC. Perhaps this year it will be 
a smaller group of people who 
have wide representations. What 
are the goals of PSAC? There are 
plenty of different opinions on this 
topic. Perhaps it will be decided 
once the individuals are ap
pointed.
The question arose about hav
ing club sports supported by 
funding from the University."' 
Some potential solutions are be- ' 
ing tossed around. Neighbor has " 
hopes of looking seriously at this 
problem.
David Banks, the Faculty Sen
ate Student Affairs Committee 
chair, was introduced.
GSO offered to loan Senate 
$7,000 to then give to WRCT to" 
buy its transmitter. This will go 
through F&R in Mondays com
mittee meeting.
Submitted by M.J. Kelly
Gear Up This Fall 
with Clans Software.
. The academic race is on and Claris  software for the 
Macintosh is sure to put you ahead of the pack.
Powerful Word Processing
MacWrite  II software makes your writing assignments 
easier. Editing is a breeze with the advanced spelling 
checker, 220,000-word thesaurus, and footnote capability. 
Use custom fonts and styles, and multiple columns for 
attention getting papers and flyers.
So, whether you're writing a lab report or an economics 
paper - your work will look professional ,and take a 
lot less time.
Easy Graphics and Design
Use MacDraw  II software to complete the picture. You 
can create anything from simple graphics and charts to 
technical illustrations and architectural drawings. 
MacDraw II is the perfect partner for any project - from 
the fraternity newsletter to a new bike design for your 
engineering class.
The Hottest Combination
Together, MacWrite II and MacDraw II can help you to 
write, publish and design anything from a term paper, to 
a research project, to a resume that gets results - giving 
you the winning edge. No matter what the race, you'll 
finish ahead with Claris software.
Get on Track This Fall!
Ask for details on the special Claris Back-toSchool Offer 
on the popular software combination for your Macintosh - 
MacWrite II and MacDraw II.
Enter the Claris Sweepstakes to win a brand new 
TREK Mountain Bike absolutely free!
CMU Computer Store 
UCC Building 
Extension 2636
1990 Claris Corporation. All rights reserved. Claris, MacDraw and MacWrite are registered 
trademarks of Claris Corporation. Macintosh is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
TREK is a registered trademark of TREK Bicycle Corporation.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
University side-steps students
One step forward, two steps 
backward  its the Carnegie 
Mellon Shuffle, the unofficial 
campus dance  and were doing 
it again.
The issue is hours of operation 
for campus services, and the 
.question is why some areas im
prove while others regress.
Recently, Health Services took 
a major step forward by extending 
,: its evening hours and adding staff 
 to accommodate student sched""ules. This is a long-awaited, posi" 'tive development, and we appre
ciate it. The action stands as proof 
that the University is still willing 
to spend money on students.
Unfortunately, this step forward 
is accompanied by several steps 
^backward. Dining Service, a pe-rennial backtracker, has rolled 
'back MorePizzas closing time and 
eliminated weekend brunch hours 
at the Tartan Grill. (Dining Ser
vices did take a step forward when 
r.Morewood Gardens was opened 
to take up some of the Grills old 
' weekend brunch hours.)
Student Activities has joined 
Dining Service in the backwards 
^shuffle. With much of the old 
-dining space at its disposal, Stu' 'dent Activities has created a wellequipped game room and a large, 
spacious study lounge  which it 
insists on closing at 11 pm. The. 
nicest facilities in Pittsburgh dont 
do any good if theyre not available 
when students need them.
With Grey Matter closing at 2 
am and Hunt Library at 3, study 
and conference space begins to 
shrink rapidly during those hours 
when students do much of their 
work. Perhaps the Tartan Lounge 
could be the graceful lift from a 
depressing situation.
Other departments have left 
tracks all over campus from their 
moves in the 24-hour shuffle over 
the past few years  Academic 
Computings 24-hour clusters (a 
step forward); Scotland Yards 1:30 
am kitchen close and 2 am bar 
close (a step forward); Entropys 
rollback to a 10 pm weekend close 
(a step backward); and Security, 
Shuttle, and Escorts 24-hour 
service (several steps forward).
Many of these steps are positive, 
but theyre not the ones the Uni
versity is doing now. It seems that 
every time the University starts 
to dance, the music changes and 
so does the direction of progress. 
Lets stop the forwards-backwards 
shuffle and dance with students.
International offices make sense
As America finds itself in a glo
bal economy, Carnegie Mellon 
must build new relationships with 
foreign corporations. Such rela!tionships will ultimately become 
resources that we can draw upon 
in the future. And as traditional 
resources begin to dwindle, those 
new relationships will have even 
greater importance to us.
Next week, Carnegie Mellon will 
join the ranks of American insti
tutions that have established 
embassies abroad when it opens 
its first foreign office  in Tokyo.
Officials hope the office will give 
the Uni versity a foothold in Japan 
from which it can develop rela
tionships with Japanese firms and 
through which Carnegie Mellon 
students and graduates can es
tablish themselves overseas.
We applaud the insight of the 
Mehrabian administration in so 
quickly capitalizing on ground
work laid by President Cyert. .
American colleges and universi
ties have learned what their 
Japanese counterparts have 
known for some time  they are
no longer competing in arenas 
confined by political divisions. As 
the nation looks beyond its bor
ders and those of its closest 
neighbors, we Relieve that 
Carnegie Mellon must also look
 and listen and learn.
Research dollars  or yen or 
deutsche marks or pounds  
arent the only benefits that cor
porate relationships will yield. As 
CMUs reputation grows overseas, 
so will the opportunities afforded 
to its students and graduates to 
study and explore career oppor
tunities abroad. When students 
and alumni take advantage of 
those opportunities, foreign offices 
can help them stay in touch with 
CMU while helping them get 
started in their careers abroad.
Were convinced that this move 
isnt just an aberration. Develop
ments like the new office, the 
Software Engineering program in 
Japan, and the Carnegie Bosch 
Institute all testify to Carnegie 
Mellons strides toward center 
stage in the world arena. Thats 
momentum were glad to see.
THE TARTAN
Editor-in-chief........................Howdy Pierce
Managing Editor..............Michael T. Rose
Business Manager..................Frank DiVito
News Editor........................Nicole Brockmann
Asst. News Editors......Rhonda Struminger
David Ladek
Forum Editor..........................Susan Abrams
Sports Editor......................Katie Culbertson
Asst. Sports Editor...........Jason McDonald
Features Editor............Dexter T. Kobayashi
Asst. Features Editor..................Trupti Patel
Allison Durazzi
Diversions Editor..................Stephen Glicker
Asst. Diversions Editors ...Dawn Brosonski 
Terri Kasch
Calendar Editor................Daniel DeGrandpre
Magazine Editor................Jennifer Kerstein
Asst. Magazine Editor...............Alison Green
Dossier Literary Editor................Jack Silbert
Dossier Design Editor..............Chris Shields
Art Editor...........................William C. Sabram
Asst. Art Editor........................Kristina Boinis
Photo Editor.........................Tad Dockstader
Photo Staff Manager..........Ignatius Sasmita
Darkroom Manager...............D.A. Henderson
Production Manager..............Beth A. Moses
Copy Manager....................................Alim Ray
Asst. Business Mgr ....Michael J. Ewedosh
Contributing Editors:
Kevin Barney 
Grant Carmichael 
Dustin Frazier 
Farron W. Levy 
Eric McAnallen 
Natalie Peterson
William Burky 
James B. Endres 
Nathan Fullerton 
Jonathan Levy 
Thomas Nichols 
Don Pickett
Carnegie Mellon University's student newspaper since 1906
Tho Torton is tho student nevvspapor of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mombers of the University community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing,Inc. Subscriplionsaroavailableforthesemesteroracademicyear. The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are tho official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial board. Columns are tho opinions of individual authors. Letters to tho Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily members of tho University community. A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter or column.
Copyright  1990 by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 /
Carnegie Mellon University /
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
There's ho o+h*r firearm 
like it.
Presidential committee proposes P/F plan
Editor:
Student Govern
ment President 
Kishore Rao has Letter tW 
formed a committee g|0 Ed It IF 
on academic concerns 
to look at ways to improve Carnegie 
Mellon as a place of learning. One area 
the committee has identified is first-year 
stress. The following is a draft proposal 
for a retroactive first-year pass/fail sys
tem, in which students could assess their 
first year at a later date and decide if 
they wanted employers and graduate 
schools to see their grades from that
year.
The committee would appreciate input 
from students regarding the proposal. 
Students should take written comments 
to the Skibo Information Desk, do Stu
dent Government President.
I. Problem
Most courses of study at Carnegie 
Mellon produce high-pressure, highstress academic environments. For some 
first-year students, this environment can 
be an exciting challenge, but for others it 
presents an overwhelming emotional 
burden.
IE. Requirements for Solution
The presidential committee feels that] 
any solution to this problem must per
form three crucial functions:
1. Reduce feelings of inadequacy dur
ing the first year and feelings of shame or 
Im stuck with this mistake later 
when the student applies for a job or to 
graduate school;
2. Avoid penalizing those students who 
view their first year performance as a 
successfully-met challenge.
3. Continue to impress upon student; 
that the university takes the first year oi 
coursework as seriously as it does the
Please see PASS/FAIL, page 1(
Show your support on National Coming Out Day
Editor:
As you may be aware, 
National Coming Out 
Day is coming up on 
October 11. National 
Coming Out Day is a
Ketteg tr 
tbe Vohtrg
day set aside to acknowledge and cel
ebrate lesbian, gay, and bisexual people 
embracing their sexuality. This coming 
out process is often very difficult, in
volving feelings of self-doubt and selfhate brought on by many factors, includ
ing social prejudices, and the fear of 
rejection by family, friends, colleagues, 
and society. It is time that we move 
beyond these fears.
National Coming Out Day is also a day 
when people, lesbian, gay, and bisexual 
or not  come out to support the 
interests of lesbian, gay, and bisexual
people.
We are providing an opportunity for 
members of the campus community to do 
exactly that. We are sponsoring a onepage spread in The Tartan in the Octo
ber 8 issue consisting of a list of names of 
those who support the following state
ments:
I fully support National Coming Out 
Day. I acknowledge the difficulties les
bian, gay, and bisexual people may en
counter  as a result of social prejudice 
and intolerance  in embracing their 
sexuality. It is important that we insure 
the rights of all people without regard to 
their sexual orientation. We must work 
together to create a society free from 
prejudice and intolerance.
You are invited to put your name on 
this list. If you would like to do so, send
your name (signature and printed) along 
with your status (undergraduate, gradu
ate student, staff member, or faculty 
member) to cmuOUT, Skibo 59, do NC0D 
Ad by October 2. Or send computer mail 
to Vince Matsko, vmOh andrew (v-mzero-h).
If possible, include several names 
one list (or mail message) instead of 
several letters of one name each. 
Thank you for your support.
cmuOUT
The Housing Office
Michael Murphy, Dean of Student 
Affairs
Lorrie Rabin, Counseling Center
Take advantage of SURG program opportunities
Editor:
As the Small Under
graduate Research 
Grant program enters 
its second year on this 
campus, I would like to
Ketteg tr 
tbe Vohtrg
share some important information with 
the readers of The Tartan.
The SURG program funds small student-initiated research and creative 
projects with up to five-hundred dollars 
for use towards research costs or as stu
dent employment. Over twenty students 
have completed their projects so far, and 
there are currently more than a dozen 
undergraduates working in areas rang
ing from the study of a cholera epidemic 
in Ireland to digital integration in sound 
sampling.
Deadlines are fast approaching for 
Spring 1991 grants. Application forms
are available in Smith Hall 209 and are 
due by October 19,1990. The application 
includes detailed information on the pro
gram and is very easy to fill out. Stu
dents from all majors participating in 
independent research or creative projects 
are encouraged to apply.
There are many resources available on 
campus to aid students in locating re
search and creative project opportunities. 
One of these resources, the Directory of 
Opportunities for Undergraduate Re
search and Creative Projects, has nearly 
doubled in size since last year and con
tains a complete listing of faculty mem
bers and their research interests. The 
Directory also lists special programs and 
research courses offered by departments 
as well as research centers in the CMU 
community.
Hard copies of the Directory are avail
able in each library, at the Information 
Desk, all Deans and Department Heads' 
offices, the Academic Advisory Center, 
the Student Employment Office, and the 
office of the Associate, Provost for Aca
demic Projects. In addition, the Direc
tory is now online and can be reached 
from any Macintosh on the network 
Directions for getting onto the Mac serve: 
and reading the Directory may be found 
in all computer clusters and on posters 
throughout the campus.
I hope that students will take advan
tage of both the Directory and the SURG 
program. Conducting research can be 
extremely rewarding and satisfying ad
dition to your undergraduate career.
Barbara Lazarus 
Associate Provost for Academi 
Projects
'Paint Your Heart Pittsburgh succeeded for Greeks
Ketteg tr 
tbe Vohtrg
Editor:
On behalf of the 
Greek Council, I would 
like to thank the fol
lowing organizations 
and individuals who 
contributed to our highly successful 
Paint Your Heart Pittsburgh program 
on Saturday, September 15th. They in
clude Student Affairs for defraying the 
cost of transportation, The Tartan for its 
news coverage, Sam Mastromatteo for 
the time he took photographing the 
event, and to all the volunteers.
The program is organized annually by 
the Pittsburgh Clean City Committee 
and entails the upkeep of houses owned 
by elderly, disabled, and low-income 
families. This year the CMU Greek com
munity made a concerted effort to get 
people to volunteer their day to help our 
neighboring communities.
We were ecstatic to find 55 hard-work
ing volunteers come out to help us with 
our project. Due to our large number, we 
were able to paint our assigned house, 
the main goal of the program, and in 
addition do several more home improve
ments such as caulking window frames, 
weeding the lawn, and removing broken 
window panes. Even with the encom
passing tasks of our project, we finished 
earlier than expected and assisted an
other house where there was a smaller 
group of volunteers.
The turnout was very encouraging to 
the entire Greek Council, and we hope 
that we can continue to be able to accom
plish large community service projects 
throughout the year. One of our goals is 
to provide these programs for the entire 
campus and help promote relations be
tween the Greek system and the cam
pus community. We are concentrating
our energies on community service as 
opposed to fundraising on the idea that 
we want people to work together wit!' 
each other.
However, in order for the Greek Coun
cil to be a strong philanthropic group, we 
need a means to relate our aims to the 
campus to get greater participation 
our programs. Therefore, we were very 
disappointed that there was nothing more 
than photographic coverage of our event 
We feel that our event was more mean
ingful than, say, an area brewerys an
niversary, if only for the reason that 
campus students were involved. Hope
fully in the future, we, the Greek Coun
cil, and the schools newspapers can work 
better together to promote philanthropy 
at Carnegie Mellon.
Paul Nagy
Philanthropy, Greek Council

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 19907
Letters redemption of Hussein was unreasonable
o*
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
In readinglast weeks 
Tartan, I found the let
ter U.S. is implicated 
in threat to world 
peace [9/171, and was 
alarmed by the utterly unreasonable at
titude taken by the author. He sounds as 
if we are the villains who should bf 
blamed for Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. 
Either this, or maybe that the Kuwaiti 
government was at fault for the invasion 
due to the fact that it existed. What I 
wish to know is where does this indi
vidual get off on having such a warped 
opinion of world events? His ludicrous 
assertion about the illegitimacy of the 
Kuwaiti government shows a complete 
lack of understanding of the situation, or 
merely that his only news source is the 
Baghdad Daily News. This assertion 
completely disregards the fact that the 
Sheik of Kuwaits dynasty has been in 
power for around two hundred years.
Also, the author seems to imply that 
the people of Kuwait were dissatisfied
with the regime. I can safely assert after 
living in the Middle East for four years 
that I know a good bit more about the 
locals than this liberal intellectual, and 
I can safely tell you that the govern
ments in such countries as Kuwait, Saudi 
Arabia, Bahrain, and the U.A.E. were 
extremely popular with the people. The 
government of Kuwait spent a great deal 
of money on the improvement of its coun
try and its people. Billions were spent on 
schools, hospitals, and other public 
works. How could the author assert that 
the country with the highest per capita 
standard of living in the world could 
have a dissatisfied populace? In these 
countries, every citizen is well provided 
for with a job, nice house, car, free medical 
care, and a free education.
In any case, the citizens were probably 
a lot happier when they lived in a peaceful 
country not in Province 19, a mad
house of looting, raping, and killing. Now 
if our good friend Patryk Silver thinks 
that this is an improvement in the world 
order, why doesnt he just go and visit the
beautiful scene of liberated Kuwait?
The author is also trying to raise par
allels between the present situation in 
the Persian Gulf and the Vietnam War. 
Obviously, he must have serious prob
lems with seeing anything beyond the 
barest impression. This action by Iraq 
was a flagrant invasion of a sovereign 
state. If this is not apparent to the author, 
then he must be spending too much time 
in the land of fiction. About the mention 
of the fact the the U.S., in the past, has 
been condemned by the U.N. and that 
this invalidates that we are siding with 
a U.N. decision and are in the right at the 
moment, where does he get the impres
sion that if we are on the side of the cause 
it must be the wrong side? This is selfservingnonsense. He seems to have come 
to the conclusion that this is all a capi
talist plot for the betterment of industry.
Well, our friend must have been asleep 
for the last few years in which capitalism 
has proved, by the disintegration of the 
Eastern Bloc, to be the only effective 
economic system.
He ignores the fact that a country has 
been swallowed up through an act of 
unjustified aggression which, he believes 
is acceptable. I imagine he would be 
voting for Neville Chamberlain (the noted 
individual who gave half of Europe to 
Hitler to appease him, and I believe we 
all remember where this led, possibly 
even Mr. Silver) if he had the opportu
nity. What would Mr. Silver have us do, 
stand back and applaud Mr. Husseins 
initiative in removing this convenience 
to Western Imperialists? His assertion 
that opposition to Iraqi aggression is 
simple-minded cynicism that the people 
of the world cannot afford to maintain is 
absolutely ludicrous. What the world 
cannot afford to tolerate is countries ran
domly flailing out in acts of aggression 
towards their neighbors, not the defense 
of countries which have requested help, 
and the attempted liberation from an 
unjust takeover.
Janies Stepanek 
Senior, MEMS
Recycling success requires everyones cooperation
Editor; KI was very glad to 
learn of Carnegie 
Mellons plans to com- Letter tW 
ply with Pennsylvania the Edjt()r 
Act 101, requiring in
stitutions to initiate recycling programs 
[University launches recycling pro
gram, 9/171. It disappoints me, how
ever, that CMU apparently needed a law 
to serve as the catalyst for such a pro
gram.
Carnegie Mellon, a school that prides 
itself on its progressive 21st-century 
style, lags far behind many schools in its 
emphasis on recycling. As an incoming 
freshman, I was shocked at the gener
ally passive stance that this schools 
students and administrators alike took 
toward recycling efforts; bins for alumi
num cans in dormitory buildings are 
clearly not enough. Recycling can only
work with a positive attitude. Why does 
one get the impression that the very 
word recycling is shunned on this cam
pus? Why are students who have stacks 
of glass bottles on their desks looked 
down upon? Why doesnt this issue get 
discussed more, with real solutions of
fered? I wish I could answer those ques
tions, but I simply do not know how. I 
will, however, offer my suggestions for 
this campus and only hope that people 
are listening.
The easiest, most obvious thing you 
can do to curb the waste problem is to use 
less, and to be more selective about what 
you use. When you can, use both sides of 
a piece of paper to write less important 
documents. Dont pick up or buy things 
that truly dont interest you: reject flyers 
about fascinating careers in diesel me
chanics if thats not your true fascina
tion. Take your own cup or glass to all
those free food functions or clubsits 
not worth throwing out a styrofoam cup 
that will outlive your childrens children 
for the sake of one drink. Use electronic 
mail whenever possible. Avoid those 
horrid paper towels found in dorm bath
rooms  use your own towel. Re-use 
boxes for storage and shipping. Next 
time you go to the bookstore, take your 
own bag instead of accepting their plas
tic bags. Since recycling bins are cur
rently provided for aluminum cans, buy 
aluminum cans instead of plastic or glass 
bottles.
According to the Environmental Pro
tection Agency, Americans go through 
2.5 million plastic bottles per hour, and 
every two weeks we throw away enough 
glass bottles to fill the Twin Towers of 
New Yorks World Trade Center; in ad
dition, we throw away enough aluminum 
cans to completely rebuild our entire
commercial aircraft fleet every three 
months'. Thus, your direct participation 
in recycling efforts becomes crucial: re
turn aluminum cans to the bins, and 
check the garbage cans to make sure 
others arent needlessly throwing cans 
away. Return your glass bottles to the 
Physical Plant building. Everyone seems 
to forget that paper is recycled in com
puter clusters, so get a small box for your 
room in which to save waste paper and, 
when you have the time, simply drop it 
off.
Another critical way you can help recy
cling efforts is by buying recycled prod
ucts. Purchasing recycled products tells 
industries you are willing to buy re
cycled goods, something that industry 
seems not to believe at the present. 100 
percent recycled paper products are not 
expensive, nor are they of a sub-stanPlease see RECYCLING, page 10
Fraternities 
exploit fun 
and games
Editor: sIt angers me to 
read each week of 
the multiple ac- Letter tW 
counts of stupidity, fUg FHitOr 
belligerence, and 
brawling in The Tartans Crime and 
Incident Report. Does anyone be
sides me notice that a majority of 
these incidents are associated with 
fraternity members (4 out of 7 in the 
9/17 issue of The Tartan)? Does any
one else wonder how long other stu
dent organizations on campus would 
continue to exist if they frequently 
engaged in similar activities?
Am I wrong in thinking that public 
drunkenness, public urination, as
sault, theft (did anyone ever find the 
live spruce last Christmas that dis
appeared from a local yard and left a 
trail of pine needles leading to a 
fraternity house?), etc., do not con
stitute fun, brotherhood, char
ity, (give me a break) or whatever it 
is these groups of fine young men are 
supposed to stand for?
Does anyone else think that it is 
not a bright idea to approach an 
armed police officer and tell him, I 
can snort 46 lines of cocaine behind 
my closed door and you cant do any
thing about it?
Maybe we could dig George Orwell 
up and get him to write a book about 
a school where there were no frater
nities, where the students went there 
to get an education, and where all 
the drunken bozos went to Texas 
A&M.
Greg Wilson
Graduate Student, English
Debras gang stands the test of time
Editor:
Biko Hall 
stood on the triangularpatchof Letter tW
fiff?^ the Editor
weird clock, or nearby the flag
pole. Built by architect John Seitz 
before he joined the Peace Corps 
in October, 1986, Biko Hall was 
erected by the staff of the Student 
Union as a witness to the horror 
of institutionalized racism. 
Stephen Biko, the martyr after 
whom the hall was named, died 
for his work as a black conscious
ness leader in 1977. Occasion
ally, a candle still burns on the 
Cut where the shanty once stood.
The shanty was not a clubhouse; 
it was a live-in activities center 
for a few dozen students who were 
outraged and personally changed 
by the callousness of the Reagan 
era. The racism of America and 
the backsliding of those years left 
some of us feeling pained, angry, 
and guilty as the eyewitnesses to 
the incredible silence of so many 
around us. On the night when 
Dennis Brutus spoke, candles 
burned and hearts lifted towards 
the idea of racial reconciliation, 
and temporarily rose above the 
reality of violence. On the night 
when Lionel played the violin in
side, a sense of talent and chal
lenge cemented us to our per
sonal commitment  a commit
ment which said that we were 
going to work for change.
Debra Martin was nothing less 
than a leader. However, she would 
have shunned such a title for 
herself. Debra could not face the 
idea that students could simulta
neously know that the policies of 
the U.S. were mad and wrong, yet 
shy away from any meaningful 
confrontation with the expecta
tions of the power structure. At a 
time when CMU was rapidly 
militarizing, in cue to primal 
rantings of Americas Great White 
Fhrer, the squeamishness of her 
peers was maddening. She not 
only sustained the Student Union 
as a newspaper, but her reticent 
courage burned with the dim fire 
that burns in all which is eternal. 
Without falseness or persona, she 
was impossible to mock or cari
cature, which is why, confronta
tion after confrontation with the 
brats of the Objectivist Club, or 
the occasionally shallow Student 
Senate, Debra and the Student 
Union prevailed. When the Stu
dent Union lost its funding, it was 
restored. When accused, we en
dured.
The shanty is gone now, but not 
the memory of black conscious
ness. The Tartan is no longer the
official campus newspaper, and 
the Student Union exists, still 
flagrantly intact. But, above all, 
what the Student Union proved 
was this: consciousness of our ter
rible peril as a culture will not be 
frightened off, not by threats of 
censorship, nor acts of violence. 
What the Student Union did not 
prove, or has yet to prove, is that 
awareness of the deadly night into 
which the arms race has plunged 
humankind will lead to destruc
tion of both the paranoid super
structure we have inherited and 
the deconstruction of the militaryindustrial complex. At root, we 
all were working on it, in our 
various ways.
In politics, simple human 
weakness.is exploited, which is 
why politicians are both de-humanized and stupefied, while in
culcated with  resentment and 
fearful militarization. Bickering 
erupted over the use of failsafe, 
but insulting rhetoric. The stig
mata of hypocrisy leveled at the 
rockers by the homosexuals, at 
the feminists by the egalitarians, 
at the ladykillers by the Quietists, 
in short was the whole wild herd 
of humanity in a microcosm of its 
controversial best: Debras Gang.
Janies MacRayland Crary 
Employee, CMDS
Do your part during Non-Smoking Week
Editor:
The first week 
of October is 
coming up, and 
it is Non-Smok. ing Week! I
OS
Letter to 
the Editor
challenge everyone at CMU  
faculty, staff, students, visitors, 
and guests aliketo avoid smok
ing during that >veek.
The purpose of this week is to 
encourage peace and harmony in 
society. It began when some 
people realized that the laws of 
every country and the teachings 
of every religion are against 
smoking. The reason for that is 
simple: every country is against 
killing both yourself and other 
people for no reason, and the same 
is true of every religion.
Smoking is something that kills 
you and other people over a long
period of time, as opposed to some 
of the methods of poisoning avail
able that do so in a relatively 
short length of time. Therefore, 
smoking should be prohibited in 
every country since without it, its 
laws are contradictory (i.e., they 
are against killing, but they per
mit smoking even though it kills). 
The same goes for all religions. 
The purpose of Non-Smoking 
Week is to recognize these facts, 
and to make an effort to promote 
peace and harmony. Every 
persons effort to help counts. If 
you smoke, other smokers around 
you will do so, and the point of all 
this will be lost.
Even if you do not believe in 
what I have said, try to avoid 
smoking since that will at least 
help other people avoid smoking. 
Those people who would truly like
to do their partin promoting peace 
and harmony should avoid 
smoking anywhere. Try to request 
other people not to smoke for their 
own benefit, as well as for that of 
the people around them. You dont 
have to give up smoking. This will 
only test how addicted you are to 
smoking, and will give you an
 opportunity to see what it is like 
to not smoke. If you do give up 
smoking, that will be even better, 
but all I ask is that you dont 
smoke on any day from Monday, 
October 1 to Sunday, October 7.1 
hope you realize the importance 
of peace in a community and do 
your bit in promoting it at CMU 
during Non-Smoking Week.
By the way, I do not smoke.
Sanjay Khanna 
Sophomore, Comp E
A VERY PERSONAL 
"WELCOME BACK 
FROM DATA GENERAL
Data General is proud to announce a PC Program offering special discounts to the entire 
Carnegie Mellon community.
For sales and service on the complete line of Data General Personal Computers, offering 
only the most advanced technology.
Compare the features of these systems and decide on the one that will serve your 
computing needs for the Fall term.. .and beyond.
Sample System Configurations
DASHER 286-12j
12MHz 80286 Processor  1MB RAM 40MB Hard 
Disk Drive  3.5" 1.44MB Diskette 
5.25" 1.2MB Diskette m VGA Controller 
VGA 14" Color Monitor (.31MM pitch!
101/102 Key Enhanced AT Compatible Keyboard 
DOS 4.01 or DOS 3.3  GW-BAS1C  LIM 4 0 Driver 
$1,600.60
DASHER 386SX-16
16MHz 80386 Processer  2MB RAM 
40MB Hard Disk  3.5" 1.44MB Diskette Drive 
VGA Controller  VGA 14" Color 
Monitor (.31 MM pitch)
101/102 Key Enhanced AT Compatible Keyboard 
DOS 4.01 or DOS 3.3  QEMM-386
$2,424.00
DASHER 386-25MHZ
25MHz 80386 Processor 4MB RAM  100MB Hard Disk 
3.5" 1.44MB Diskette Drive  VGA Controller 
VGA 14 Color Monitor (.31 MM pitch)  Microsoft Mouse 
101/102 Key Enhanced AT Compatible Keyboard 
DOS'4.01 or DOS 3.3  QEMM-386
$3,459.00
For more information on our complete PC lineor to order NOW-please call 
Rich Bingham at 921-5401 for your FREE Data General PC Pocket Guide.
iw Data General

---------------------------------------------------

dayursday Friday Satury
Festering Schnitzel
with Ian
RocklFolk
Against the Grain
with Caleb and Mark 
Christian Rock
Pass the Peas
with Evan and John
BlueslReggaelJazzlRap
Afro-Caribbean Tunes
with Rash 
AfriamlReggaelBIm
MtjDojSlM
withStig
MitnlIfmlItil
It's Okay to Listen to Chap
with Chap 
Cindy
What's That Button Do?
With Elliott
Comedock
FunwithPowerTottls
will Dave 
Rod
Bend Over, Jesus of Nazareth
wilt Mike 
,, kUTrklCUni!
KmimlMl
withGlenn
M
Filet of Feedback
with Myke
Noise
Music For the Mind
with Marc
MAgelkz
Evil Honky Stomp
with Lisa 
Jazz/Blues11-OA
Air Grandma
with Lukey
RaplReggaelFunk
111 Twitch City
with Errata Stigmata 
HardcorelMetallGolhicllnduslrial
fhdian Music
with Vivek
Surprise DJs
iUttitCiiifiii!
ill!
lit*
Humanities III
with Mary and Harriett
Rock
The Aquarium
with Jack 
Rock
2:30pm., .  nifTT
1U1II
Licorice Pizza
with Hugh
RocklFolklNoise
olumem8m
with Russ
Broadway!Folk
2:45pm
1J11I1
Carnegie Mellon 
Tail FootballNew VoicesChickenfeet
with Kate
Rock
New Voices
iiUil Clnl lit
Music From CMU
tt/fL TUI L PI
4pm
Out of Athens
with Adam 
Music From Athens, GA
Tangled in the WEB
with DI Kenny C
HouselMIRap
Cyterpunk Utopia
with Simon
House, Industrial, Disco
ifctktt
IfMffiil
WarnerHall othfloor
with Dici C,
M/Mi
''"Fun With Mold
with Nate 
ProgmmlExperimentallGolhicIweattheKnittingFactory
Angst
with Dave 
Gothic/Dark Rock/Industrial
Rat Patrol in Iraq
with Kevin 
Rock/Reggae
FreeJazzwithEveryPurchase
ilifl
ilJIrffMiil
You're Not Supposed to 
Believe It's Not Butter
with Dug
Rock
hi-----------------------------
Pet Rock
with the Queen ofR.P.
Pop/Rock
Le Chat Jazz Caf
with Jen
JmlReffelTaiigos
I'm Off Guard
with Sean 
RocklMetallRapFugitive Pope UpdateJl,Sportsline
Devil in 
the Form of a Woman, 
As Usual,
with Missy and Elle
Toe Lint
with Doug
RocklPunklMetal
With Keren
Indie PoplRock
3 Down, 1 to Go
withStickboy 
That Punk Thing
Gropius and Me
with Murphy
M/fa
Unauthorized Broadcast
will Ml
taiffif
Funkin' D. S.
with Karl
Rock
Family Gradanza
with The Cat In The Hat 
Industrial/Dance
DieJralManGetsinleGroove
ill
kipmiilliiimiiMl
Dust
fill
krEUdUlipMallts
TheSize,WhoNeedsIt?
with Mrs. Elfenbein 
hMowlimlOpm
Radio for the People
with Ed and Andy, et. al. 
All
The Old and the New
with Alexei 
Rock
Garden Slug
with Brian
Rock
to
to
3pm
3pm
to
6pm
6pm
to
9pm
to
idht
East of
Live at the Knitting Factory: Tuesdays at 5pm WRCT News: Daily at Noon, 5pm and 11pm
Live performances from New York's
avant-garde jazz / rock scene New Voices: Mondays and Wednesdays at 3pm
News magazine with relevant issues
Fugitive Pope Update: Wednesdays at 8pm 
Live performances by local and national bands Sporlsiine: Thursdays ai 8:30pm
Music from CMU: Fridays at 2:30pm CW of oampas, local Md national sports
Music produced by CMUs Music Department
Request Lines: 
621-WRCT

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 19909
Student government president Rao welcomes students back
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I Id like to take 
this opportunity 
to welcome you 
all back to 
school. Id also 
like to offer a special welcome to 
our newest class, the class of 94, 
for whom this letter is especially
| written.
As we all know, the University 
has gone through some impor
tant changes over the summer. 
The obvious physical changes  
the new dorm, Gesling Stadium 
and the Kiltie Courtwere much 
needed and are important first 
steps towards solving some of the 
more glaring problems confront
ing Carnegie Mellon. The event 
that occurred this past summer 
that I am most excited and enthu
siastic about, however, is more
philosophical than physical: the 
arrival of Robert Mehrabian as 
our new President.
Throughout the 14-month 
Presidential Search last April, the 
student representatives (as well 
as the faculty members and 
trustees) on the committee re
peatedly asked candidates ques
tions about improving under
graduate education and the qual
ity of student life. Dr. Mehrabians 
past accomplishments and his 
ideas for the future were clearly 
the most impressive and promis
ing.
Dr. Mehrabians commitment 
to improving the quality of stu
dent life and undergraduate edu
cation presents us with the per
fect opportunity to take a direct 
role in truly impacting and im
proving Carnegie Mellon. I am
confident that you will find Presi
dent Mehrabian as sincere, as 
student-oriented, and as commit
ted as I have. I will be working 
closely with him and his admin
istration to address and resolve 
as many student issues as we 
possibly can.
Because there are many issues 
to be considered and ideas to be 
considered, I have formed four 
committees to facilitate the ac
complishment of our common 
goals. The committees are intent 
on developing proposals and ini
tiatives that are meaningful and 
that can be implemented. The 
committees will be more than 
merely forums for discussion; they 
will be forums for action. They 
include:
The Committee on Academic 
Concerns (LisaMelenyzer, chair);
The Quality of Life Student 
Task Force (Aru Deshmukh and 
Nicole Brockmann, co-chairs);
The University Center Stu
dent Action Committee (Mike 
Ewedosh, chair);
The College of Fine Arts & 
Performing Arts Center Student 
Panel (Lisa Mathis, chair).
In addition to working with the 
committees, I will also be person
ally exploring issues such as:
Retail (and Dining) Services 
Pricing Policies;
5th year scholarships for in
terdisciplinary education and 
leadership development;
 The search for the University's 
next Provost.
There will also be numerous 
other opportunities to get involved
and make a difference. One such 
opportunity for meaningful input 
is the Presidents Student Advi
sory Council (PSAC). PSAC is a 
group of students chosen to meet 
with the President three times a 
semester to discuss various is
sues of importance. (The agendas 
for these meetings are set at open 
meetings held 1 week prior to 
each meeting with the president.) 
To be considered for membership 
on PSAC, a student must be 
nominated by the chief executive 
officer of any recognized student 
organization or a senator from 
his/her home college. If you are 
interested in being considered, 
please contact me as soon as pos
sible as the deadline for nomina
tions is Thursday, October 4.
As I mentioned before, Presi
dent Mehrabian presents us with
a real opportunity to make a 
meaningful difference in the 
Carnegie Mellon experience. If 
you are interested in joining 
PSAC, any of the committees 
mentioned above, or have specific 
issues that you would like to see 
addressed, please feel free to con
tact me at x5498 or leave a note 
for me at the Skibo Information 
Desk. I hope to hear from many of 
you.
By the end of October, I will 
report back to you on the specific 
progress each of the committees 
has made. Until then, best of luck 
on a successful semester.
Thank you for your time.and 
cooperation.
Kishore D. Rao 
President, Student Govern
ment
An equal opportunity emftoyw. US dlizrmhip required for applicant and immediati family mottos
Learn to distinguish the dos and donts of recycling plastic items
;{ In my last column, I stressed the ur
gency to get rid of the growing plastic 
hordes. This week I hope to illustrate
I several simple things you can do to stop 
the mounds of plastic while shopping.
1 DONT...
I *Buy non-recycled plastic trash bags 
Buy squeezable condiments in 
plastic bottles 
Buy plastic milk jugs 
 Buy plastic detergent/softener bottles 
Buy soft-soap dispensers 
Buy toothpaste pumps 
Buy polystyrene plates or cups 
Buy polystyrene egg cartons
Jeffrey Woodford
DO...
Buy trash bags that use recycled 
plastic, or, better yet, use paper bags 
Buy glass or aluminum receptacles 
instead of plastic ones
 Buy powdered detergent which comes 
in cardboard boxes
Buy fabric softener sheets
Buy bar soap 
Buy tubes of toothpaste 
Buy paper cups or use ceramic/reus
able dishes 
Buy cardboard egg cartons 
However, sometimes it is impossible 
(or very, very impractical) to find a 
nonplastic substitute for a plastic item. 
For example, most eggs are packaged in 
styrofoam cases. It is hard to find card
board egg cartons. Therefore, before you 
purchase your plastic, look at the little 
number, usually on the bottom, enclosed 
in the recycling symbol (three arrows 
pointing head-to-tail in the shape of a
triangle). These numbers are a part of a 
voluntary labeling system to help people 
at recycling centers sort the plastic. Un
fortunately, though, since the system is 
voluntary, not every bottle or container 
will have a number.
Here are the numbers and their mean
ings:
1 - PETE (polyethylene terephthalate). 
Widely recycled.
2 - HDPE (high density polyethylene). 
Widely recycled.
3 - PVC (polyvinyl chloride). Recyclable, 
but the market for recycled PVC is lim
ited. It may be hard to find a recycling
center that accepts PVC.
4 - LDPE (low density polyethylene). 
Recyclable, but a limited market. Same 
deal as PVC.
5- PP (polypropylene). Not recyclable.
6 - PS (polystyrene). Not recyclable.
7 - Mixture of many plastics. Not recy
clable.
If you absolutely, positively have that 
sudden urge to buy oodles of plastic, be 
sure to buy recyclable plastic and recycle 
it!
Jeffrey Woodford is a freshman in MCS.
Lets admit our mistakes from the past and forgive those who have hurt us
Recently, one of my friends 
begged me to try her cooking be
cause French food was her spe
cialty. I reluctantly agreed, wary 
of what others had said of her socalled cooking. And yet no sooner 
had I stuck the first forkful of food 
into my mouth than the crepes of 
wrath began to get lodged in my 
throat, and the Heimlich Ma
neuver had to be performed.
I ask my mom almost every 
week to promise not to worry 
about me, and she calls the next
day to tell me that I sounded sick 
the day before and did I go to 
Health Services to get looked at 
or at least take, some medicine 
before it got worse and I died from 
a massive case of hepatitis or 
something like that. (Geez. I may 
forget to take a paper over to 
Financial Aid every once in a while 
which may jeopardize my chances 
of receiving aid for the next three 
years, but Im not that irrespon
sible.)
I cant help these incidents 
S) 
' Susan Abrams
they just happened by chance. 
Thus, I tend to forgive and forget.
I make plenty of mistakes too. 
Nearly all the time I really do 
regret them. I wish others would 
forgive and forget the things I do 
too. Nobodys perfect, and we all 
make mistakes, you know.
Greeks have a number of good qualities
Universities and colleges na
tionwide are experiencing a back
lash against one of the most col
legiate aspects of life on campus 
 the Greek system. Many 
schools have limited them or out
right banned their existence due 
to some abuses that have plagued 
these groups.
Whether you love them or hate 
them, there seems to be very little 
middle ground in attitudes to
wards fraternities and sororities. 
Many students forego joining one 
of these groups for various rea
sons, but those who do enter find 
it a rewarding experience to enjoy 
with other students in a social 
atmosphere.
Why are schools turning against 
Greeks? Simply put, they have a 
terrible image problem. Years of 
hell stories, including hazing, 
discrimination, and drinking, 
have all implanted a seed of dis
trust in administrators minds 
against these institutions.
In order to make the situation 
better, Greeks have been working 
on these common complaints to 
deal with the hedonistic and exi elusiveness aspects of the past 
which have caused them much 
ill-will. No, the problems have, 
not evaporated by any means, but 
an effort is being made to correct 
the unchecked abuses prevalent
ihofArn
7.S. Blass
Despite these signals of change, 
faculty, staff, and groups of stu
dents have joined together in a 
concerted movement to dismantle 
these unique organizations. One 
such situation has occurred at 
Colby College in Maine. Trustees 
gave the fraternities the heaveho and later suspended students 
who continued to hold on to their 
group off campus. Have we en
tered an age of the college admin
istrator as Big Brother?
Student response to the Colby 
decision has been mixed. Former 
fraternity member Eric DeCosta 
says, We had good times; well be 
friends for life.
On the opposite end, Jay 
Hermsen states that, When I talk 
to my friends who go to schools 
with fraternities, all I hear are 
hell stories. If you cant get into a 
fraternity, you have no social life. 
Obviously, a difference of opinion 
exists between these students.
Because many students want 
to be a part of Greek life, the 
question should be resolved. Any 
time we seek to suppress the right 
of free association, Americans 
have felt the heavy-handed enHe wants to do his taxes but he finds 
it too difficult to hold a pencil.
Without your help, he may not be able 
to do them.
Almost everybody has to file taxes, but not 
everyone can do it on their own. Volunteer and 
help make someone's taxes less taxing. Call 
1800424-1040.
AWKS..**.*
Yom Kippur is coming up this 
weekend. Im going to fast. Im 
going to pray. Im going to call my 
family and friends and say Im 
sorry. Im going to ask for for
giveness. Im going to be highly 
self-critical until I know that ev
eryone can trust me once more.
How often have you broken a 
promise? Hurt someone you liked/ 
loved? Lied through your teeth? 
Made someone believe you were 
someone you really are not?
People have done it to you plenty
of times. But you do it to them too. 
Most of the time you only want to 
be forgiven and not forgive the 
other person in return. But it just 
doesnt work that way.
Friendships are based on feel
ings of mutuality. This is a youscratch-my-back-Fll-scratchyours kind of world.
The Gulf crisis does not really 
seem to be getting any better. 
Israel may get too involved in it, 
perhaps leading to another Yom 
Kippur War. It would be so easy if
someone just said, Im sorry for 
all the trouble Ive caused. Please 
forgive me. I want to make peace. 
The chances of this happening, 
though, are small simply because 
no ones wants to admit their 
mistakes. But someone has to 
make the first move sometime.
Why not be the first one to 
scratch someones back today? 
Youll be glad you did.
Susan Abrams is a sophomore 
professional writing major.
croachment of privacy. By elimi
nating these groups from cam
puses, the administrators force 
students to go off campus to find 
what they seek. In the case of 
alcohol, students are more apt to 
drink and drive if they must leave 
the confines of the campus com
munity. Also, by keeping the or
ganizations on campus, universi
ties and colleges have more con
trol and can regulate these activi
ties to prevent serious conse
quences.
Students come to school to learn, 
but those who dont take time to 
unwind risk burnout and depres
sion. Any school can be a stressful 
environment to work and study 
in considering the demands placed 
on the student, but lets try not to 
ban Greek life as other universi
ties and colleges have opted.
Greeks may not be everyones 
cup of tea; people are free not to 
join. For those who find that these 
groups provide a release from the 
frustrations of school, we must 
preserve these peoples rights. If 
we do not acknowledge that 
Greeks have merits, then we are 
blinded by our personal preju
dices to the benefits it provides to 
the members it serves, as well as 
the university at large.
T.S. Blass is a sophomore IM 
major.
Dont let this happen to you. Sign up now for 
an interview with the National Security Agency. 
Were looking for Spring 91 and Fall 91 graduates 
interested in full-time employment. It could be the 
opportunity youve been looking for.
NSA is the Department of Defense agency 
charged with foreign Signals Intelligence, domestic 
Information Security, and overall Operations
Security for the U.S. Government.
Its an important, exciting mission that lends 
itself to some unique job opportunities.
So dont miss out National
on what could be the Security
chance of a lifetime. ) .
Meet with NSA. Were Agency
coming to campus. The Opportunities of a Lifetime
NSA INTERVIEW SCHEDULE
The National Security Agency will be on campus October 19th interviewing seniors 
majoring in electrical engineering, computer science and mathematics, 
Summer positions are also available for juniors.
i

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 1990
aPles AREST ,e Ple TepPl ,SRg PR RE5 Ale5JNleT
AMERICAN WAY OF LIFE'
_ ^ B&uiA&rr<P/T*fc> Ta ious ft>rr-DUfATenCommunication bridges the ethnie gaps
Focal Point, an organization 
which is devoted to promoting 
better awareness among ethnic 
groups, had its first general 
meeting last Thursday. It was 
very heartening to see Student 
Affairs taking an active role in 
helping promote better campus 
life through support for minority 
organizations. Because college life 
is a forum for both social and 
academic education, future de
velopments in this trend are wel
comed.
The purpose for such organiza
tions is more than promoting 
better awareness among all eth
nic groups, however. I hope that 
through such efforts, better un
derstanding and acceptance of 
others would result. The goal for 
any concerned American, regard
less of race and gender, is better 
race relations. Through discus
sions and repeated interaction, 
barriers for amiable race relations 
will disappear.
The decade of the 80s was 
marked by racial violence, hatred, 
and intolerance. The basis for such 
violence resided in the economic, 
social, and political gulf dividing
LLui Sieh
all ethnic groups. American soci
ety, particularly in the urban ar
eas, was characterized by separa
tion. We had returned to the days 
before Martin Luther King, Jr. 
where society was separate but 
equal. In response, minority 
groups acted to correct these re
verses by advocating ethnic 
awareness and ethnic pride to 
combat the growing racial polar
ity among ethnic groups.
Assimilation, defined as the 
process in which the indigenous 
culture or ethnic identity is di
luted, became a bad word. Whites 
needed to respect ethnic minori
ties through better understand
ing of their different ethnic cul
tures. In other words, better rela
tions were to come through edu
cation of these groups. Whites 
were blamed that they needed to 
learn" and correct the injustices 
they inherited from their ances
tors who not only created the Jim
Crow laws, but also established 
a white society in America that 
never fully respected the diversity 
of American society. In the pro
cess, these ethnic groups who were 
rightfully agitating for equality 
established a dangerous prece
dent.
Ethnic pride and awareness 
became the excuse for separatist 
tendencies. This unforseen and 
unfortunate by-product is 
threatening the very goals of 
equality and justice in American 
society as well as inhibiting ami
able race relations. The reasons 
for hatred and intolerance begins 
with separation.
By definition, such ethnic 
groups are exclusive in nature. 
Only those who share the same 
race, culture, or language, for 
example, are welcome. Human 
nature readily segregates. People 
who share similar race, culture, 
or language will associate and 
those who are different will go 
seek others like them. This 
natural behavior is exactly what 
we dont want to get in the way 
toward racial equality but often 
does.
Society ought not be defined 
along ethnic boundaries. It is too 
easy to remain in ones ethnic 
group and be safe.
Fostering communication and 
integration is the key toward a 
more equal society. Communication is a two-way street and all 
members of society must partici. 
pate fully. The most important 
purpose for the creation of ethnii 
groups is not to be self-congratu
latory but to force its members to 
establish a dialogue with other 
ethnic groups, to establish 
foothold in American society 
where one is a full-fledged mem
ber deserving of equal treatment 
and status, and to break down the 
very natural barriers of segrega
tion.
Ethnic groups which include 
whites must be conscious that by 
defining themselves through 
these organizations, separation 
and segregation becomes easy to 
occur. And if we are not careful 
enough, we will be sowing the 
seeds of hatred.
Lui Sieh is a senior applied his
tory major.
CMU has a long way to go in the recycling process
RECYCLE, from page 7
dard quality; new technologies make it 
quite difficult to distinguish recycled 
paper from virgin paper.
There is also an incredible diversity of 
recycled products that can currently be 
purchased, including basic paper sizes 
as well as looseleaf paper and paper for 
tractor-feed printers, envelopes, greeting 
cards, postcards, stationery, and wrap
ping paper.
Also relatively new to the market are 
cellulose food storage bags, a naturally 
degradable zip-loc-like bag thats just as 
good. Also, for those who insist on enve
lopes with plastic windows, a new de
gradable material called glassine is an 
excellent substitute.
Several people have been lost or con
fused as to where they can purchase 
recycled products. Some products, like 
greeting cards, are usually not hard to 
find. Other products, like tractor-feed 
printer paper, are more tricky. One out
standing source for recycled paper prod
ucts is a mail-order company called Earth 
Care paper, Inc. (P.O. Box 3335, Madison, 
WI53704, (608)-256-5522). This company 
publishes an excellent catalog that is a 
recyclers dream, with superb prices in
cluding quality discounts and fast de
livery. For more information about re
cycling efforts nationwide, call the Envi
ronmental Defense Fund at1-800-CALLEDF.
As a final note, Id like to see the 
administration take a firmer position on 
recycling. At the least, this would mean 
strict adherence to the stated goals of the 
phase-in of recycling programs. Beyond 
that, I would propose some limited form 
of mandatory education about recycling.
I am not suggesting a new course called 
Recycling Skills Workshop, but perhaps, 
for example, new freshmen could be in
troduced to recycling programs here 
during orientation week.
Furthermore, it would be nice to see
signs that dont merely say Please Re
cycle but also explain why. Why not fill 
the laserprinters in the clusters with 
recycled paper? Why not require teach
ers to double-side their handouts? A 
successful recycling program requires 
plenty of teamwork and belief in the 
cause.
For a college that is supposedly pre
paring tomorrows engineers, scientists, 
managers, and other disciplines to lead 
the world in a better direction, we have a 
long way to go.
David Wolpert 
Freshman, EM /H&SS
Alum mixed 
on Gesling 
dedication
Editor:
After attending 
the dedication of 
Gesling Stadium, Letter tW 
here is my annual the Editor 
scouting report:
Football team  good. Band  
sick.
Arthur R. Savitz 
E 40
Presidential committees pass/fail plan 
may soon become a reality for freshmen
PASS/FAIL, from page 6
other years.
IH. Solution  Concept
The presidential committee 
proposes the following solution, 
termed Retroactive First-Year 
Pass/Fail.
Any student, at any time after 
the entire first year had been re
corded on the transcript, could 
choose to have the entire first 
years grades converted to Ps and 
Fs on the transcript as follows:
A = P;B = P;C = P;D = P;R = F
IV. Solution  Qualifica
tions
1. This retroactive conversion 
process would apply only to the 
grades themselves on transcripts 
and other documents circulating 
outside the university. Class rank 
and the determination of college 
and university honors would still 
include the ABCDR grades from 
the first year, so as not to penalize
; students with excellent first year 
grades. Administrators, faculty, 
and anyone else within the uni
versity who now has access to
& students grades would retain 
access to the ABCDR grades from 
each students first year.
2. The student would be able to 
switch from ABCDR to P/F and 
back again whenever s/he so de; sired, i.e. each time s/he requested
; a transcript.
3. All grades from the first year 
would be recorded in the same 
manner. For example, no student 
could keep As and Bs while converting'Cs and Ds to Ps.
4. Os (audit), Ss (satisfactory), 
Is (incomplete), and Ws (late 
drop) would remain.
5. This conversion privilege 
would apply only to the first year
 of coursework.
V. Solution  Procedure
This conversion process would
be performed by the registrar.
1. The student, when request
ing a transcript, could check a box
' saying s/he wanted first-year 
grades converted to P/F.
2. The registrar, before copying 
the transcript, would convert the 
students first year grades to Ps 
and Fs, and would white-out the
 quality points and QPAs for each 
first-year semester.
3. The transcript would be cop
ied for the student with the con
verted grades affixed to it.
VI. Areas of Concern
The committee anticipates two 
main areas of concern over this 
proposed plan.
1. That a lassez-faire attitude 
toward first year grades will con
fuse employers and denigrate 
CMUs academic reputation.
The committee feels that, given 
first-year pass/fail policies at in
stitutions like MIT, this plan will 
not place an academic stigma on 
CMU.
Further, if an employer sees 
first year ABCDR grades on some 
CMU transcripts and P/F grades 
on others, the student with P/F 
grades, not CMU, will be ques
tioned. In fact, the committee sees 
the free market mechanism of 
job searching itself as a powerful 
incentive for the career-minded 
student to work hard during the 
first year and consider retaining 
ABCDR grades on the transcript 
later on. Additionally, while stu
dents may occasionally blow off 
a first year course, they will not 
be able to convert the grade 
without also converting grades 
for the rest of their first year.
The committee sees no reason 
why a thoughtful upperclass 
student should not be allowed to 
weigh the pros and cons of in
cluding or excluding first year 
grades on the transcript, and then 
make a decision that s/he feels 
will give him/her the best chance 
for future advancement.
Given the academic quality of 
CMU students and the high 
stakes, all-or-nothing nature of 
the proposed plan, the committee 
believes that Retroactive Pass/ 
Fail will be used only for the 
right reasonto keep a difficult 
first year from hanging like a 
millstone around a conscientious 
students neck.
2. That logistical concerns will 
make it difficult for the Registrar 
to implement this plan.
Currently, one-semester tran
script labels are printed out every 
semester and updated six weeks 
after the next semester begins. 
Changes made after the six-week
period are done by hand, with a 
typewriter and white-out. (Ac
cording to the registrar, the cor
rections are indistinguishable 
from the original type on the 
transcript.)
The committee recognizes the 
labor-intensity of this procedure, 
should a large portion of the en
tire senior class decide to have 
first year grades converted to P/ 
F. However, we view this labor 
intensity as temporary, because a 
registrar official has informed us 
that transcript production will 
become automated by the spring 
of 1991. (The committee realizes 
that similar projects, like com
puterized registration, have been 
late in coming, but we are in
formed that computerized tran
scripts are already behind sched
ule and thus have had their in
stitutional behind-schedule lag 
time.)
If transcripts are produced by 
computer, a simple program rou
tine could be written into the soft
ware so allowing the registrar to 
print out first-year grades with 
Ps, Fs, and no QPAs. Or the 
conversion could be done manu
ally on the screen with very little 
effort.
Until computerized transcripts 
become a reality, the committee 
recommends the following, in or
der of preference:
1. The service be provided, and 
the registrar hire a work-study 
student, if necessary, to do make 
up for the time that a staff member 
will take doing P/F corrections.
OR
2. The service be provided, at 
an additional transcript charge of 
one or two dollars, until the 
computerized process kicks in.
OR
3. The service be approved, but 
not implemented until transcripts 
are computerized.
The committee encourages in
put from students regarding this 
proposal.
Lisa Melenyzer, committee 
chair
Matthew Ruben, committee 
liaison for Pass/Fail proposal
High Holy 
Day Services
YOM KIPPUR
Pre Kol Nidre Dinner, Friday, Sept 28, 5:30 pm at Bnai Brith Hillel 
Kol Nidre Egalitarian Conservative Service, Friday, Sept 28, 7:30 pm at the 
Ballroom, Wm Pitt Union 
Reform Morning Service, Saturday, Sept 29,10 am at the Assembly Room, Wm Pitt 
Union 
Egalitarian Conservative Morning Service, Saturday, Sept 29, 9 am at the Assembly 
Room, Wm Pitt Union
Egalitarian Conservative Services resume, Saturday, Sept 29, 5 pm, at the Assembly 
Room, Wm Pitt Union
Break-the-Fast will follow Neilah at approximately 7:50 PM in the 
Assembly Room
All services are sponsored by Bnai Brith Hillel and are open to all members of the 
university community. The services are held in the William Pitt Union located at 
the corner of Fifth Avenue and Bigelow Boulevard. Students will be meeting in 
front of Skibo 1/2 hour before services and walking over to the William Pitt Union. 
For additional information about home hospitality, schedule of services in local 
congregations, or to make a dinner reservaation call 621-8875
Bnai Brith Hillel is your Jewish connection on campus.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
PRESS PASSby Dan Erhard
Bonds deserves 
MVP honor
Friday night, Barry Bonds 
became only the second player 
in baseball history to hit 30 
home runs and steal 50 bases in 
one season. The only other 
player to do so, Eric Davis of the 
Cincinnati Reds, could be a Hall 
of Famer if he could only stay 
healthy.
So far this season, Bonds has 
111 RBIs, 101 runs scored, 32 
home runs, and 50 stolen bases.- 
If he hits at least .300 this 
season (he is currently hitting 
.307), he will be the first player 
in the history of the game to 
combine that type of power with 
that type of speed and the type 
of consistency to put up those 
kinds of numbers. Not even his 
father has done that.
His father, Bobby Bonds, was 
a member of the 30-30 club (30 
home runs, 30 stolen bases) five 
different seasons. So many 
times, Barry was told of his 
potential and how he could be 
better than his father. The 
pressure on him has been 
phenomenal. For every single 
he hit, the fans believed, with 
his potential, it should have 
been a double. But now, if he 
maintains his .300 hitting pace, 
his accomplishments this year 
will be unparalleled, not only by 
his father, but by any other 
player.
For this reason, Barry Bonds 
should be, and will be, the 
National League Most Valuable 
Player, regardless of where the 
Pirates finish. His contributions 
to the team this year have been 
extraordinary. With his offen
sive prowess and his outstand
ing defense, Barry Bonds has 
been without peer in baseball 
this year.
Last year, Barry Bonds 
contract ended and he asked for 
a salary of over one million 
dollars a year. They declined to 
even negotiate a new contract 
and took Bonds and several 
other Pirates to arbitration. 
Bonds lost the battle, but he 
will win the war.
At the conclusion of this 
season, Barry Bonds is going to 
demand to have his contract 
renegotiated. If he does not get 
his wish, you will probably see 
him starting in left field next 
year for the Los Angeles Dodg
ers, and getting paid quite a bit. 
Pirate President Carl Barger is 
very hesitant to give out ex
tended multi-million dollar 
contracts, and when he has, he 
usually ends up swallowing a 
lot of pride, and losing a lot of 
money (see George Hendrick, 
Steve Kemp, Larry McWilliams, 
and Walt Terrell.)
But Carl, you gotta do it. With 
Andy Van Slyke, Bobby Bonilla 
(another player expecting a new 
contract), and Bonds, you have 
one of the best lineups in 
baseball. And if you havent 
noticed, your G.M., Larry 
Doughty, isnt about to get you 
another player like Bonds for 
zero money like Syd Thrift 
could. I dont care how well 
Steve Carter plays in Buffalo, 
you have to start shelling out 
your money to the players who 
deserve it.
The market will dictate what 
Bonds and Bonilla make next 
year; you have to determine 
where their paychecks come 
from. Please have a little 
foresight to see what talent you 
have there; otherwise, the 
Pirates organization will get the 
shaft in the end.
Dan Erhard is a sophomore 
majoring in professional writ
ing.
The University Rowing Club is gearing up to kick off its fall season this Saturday, when it takes on the fourth annual Head 
of the Ohio Regatta in Pittsburgh. Here, sophomore Rick Gibson practices with the team. The regatta, featuring individuals, 
schools, colleges, and clubs from Pittsburgh and around the Northeast, consists of a 2.5 mile sprint against the clock along 
the Allegheny River from the 31st Street Bridge to the Fort Duquesne Bridge. The times for the races of the CMU teams are 
as follows: two lightweight mens fours, a lightweight womens four at 2:10 pm; a mens and women's club four at 11:40 am; 
a mens and womens club eight at 8:40 am; and an Alden and Recreational Single rowed by-graduate student David Greene 
at 1:50 pm. Race day ceremonies start at 8:30 am Saturday at Roberto Clemente Park, and the days events end with an 
awards ceremony at 3 pm.
Men's CC 
team takes 
5th at SRU
By DAN HOLLAND
Tartan Staffwriter
The sun finally broke through the clouds on 
Saturday to shed a little light on the mens 
cross country team at the Slippery Rock Uni
versity Invitational. Patches of mud remained, 
but the Tartans pulled out an impressive fifth 
place among 18 teams, many of whom are 
Division II powerhouses. The team was led by 
junior Jonathan Frieder who finished the 5.4 
mile course ninth overall in a time of 28:53.
 Frieder was satisfied with his race, especially 
since the competition was the toughest he had: 
seen all season. I was real happy with my 
performance today because I ran against some 
of the top Divsion II competitors in the nation, 
he said.
Other top performers had excellent indi - 
Please see SRU, page let
Women fifth 
at Dickinson
By KATIE CULBERTSON
Tartan Sports Editor
When the Carnegie Mellon womens crosij 
country team left Carlisle, PA Saturday afte:  
competing in a seven-team meet hosted by 
Dickinson College, the team left as fifth-plac<; 
finishers.
But as far as they were concerned, the tean i 
really finished fourth.
With only 170 yards remaining in the course, 
three miles into the race, CMUs top runne  
Carolyn Lowe, inadvertently took a wronjf 
turn. She was followed by the then second an< I 
third place runners.
We ran the course beforehand, said Lowe. 
But I just got confused.
However, Lowes confusion cost her first 
place; she finished in 25th instead. She wa s 
way out front, said the teams coach Dario 
Donatelli. She was clearly [going to be] the 
winner.
It was obvious that I was going to win, said 
Please see WOMEN page 1:5
Tartans squander 2-0 lead in overtime loss
By JASON MCDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Coming into last week, the 
Carnegie Mellon soccer team held 
a perfect 4-0 record, allowing only 
one goal along the way. The Tar
tans win streak came to an abrupt 
halt as the Tartans dropped a 
pair of important University 
Athletic Association games, in
cluding Sundays 3-2 overtime 
loss to Emory University.
Although Emory was able to
move the ball better early in the 
game, CMU notched the first goal 
four minutes into the game on an 
Emory defensive breakdown. 
Sophomore Terence Sibiya stole a 
low goal kick from Emorys Philip 
Scarborough and sent the ball 
back past the startled goal keeper 
to give the Tartans an early 1-0 
lead.
Despite the goal, Emory main
tained a tight control over the 
game, but the Eagles couldnt get 
the tying score. Fifteen minutes
into the contest, a Tartan defen
sive breakdown left freshman goal 
keeper Dave Shapiro out of posi
tion, but the Emory shot rolled 
wide of the open net.
After Emory blew their chance 
to tie the game, the Tartans 
dominated the remainder of the 
first half. However, the Tartans 
came up empty on several big 
opportunities and the first half 
ended with the Tartans leading 
1-0.
CMU continued to dominate the
game as the second half began, 
but didnt score until almost 15 
minutes had elapsed. On a free 
kick, freshman Min Chong lofted 
a high pass to junior forward 
Young Kang, who precisely 
headed the ball into the top lefthand comer of the net for a 2-0 
Tartan lead.
The Tartans hopes for an upset 
win began to crumble as Emory 
increased their offensive pressure 
with 20 minutes left. Assisted by 
a favorable wind, the Eagles
struck for a pair of scores within 
15 minutes to tie the score. Senio r 
midfielder Jim Kehoe punched 
home a loose ball for the first 
Emory goal, and sophomore 
Dennis Jerkunica scored with 3:40 
left to deadlock the game and force 
overtime.
The overtime was an even battle 
for the first 10 minutes, but CMU 
received an important boost tha t 
seemed to turn the tide. Emorys 
Harry Arnett was given a red 
Please see SOCCER, page 13
Tartans avenge rival 
Dukes with 31-8 win
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartans took on their cross
town rivals, the Duqesne Dukes, 
Saturday at Gesling Stadium, and 
proved to be unkind hosts, beat
ing the Dukes 31-8 before a crowd 
of1,441.
Last season, the Dukes pulled 
out an 1110 win over the Tartans 
in the season opener. The loss left 
a bad taste in the mouths of Tartan 
players, as they tasted revenge 
for the 1990 season, when the two 
teams would meet again.
Last year there was a bad 
feeling after the game, said nose 
tackle Carlos Rodriguez. It felt 
good to win this time around. 
Theres a great rivalry between 
us and Duqesne, added wide re
ceiver Don DeCaro. Last year it 
was a tough, close game but we 
lost it. This year everyone, espe
cially the coaches, really wanted 
to win.
Although the final score was
lopsided, it was not an easy win 
for the Tartans. After scoring early 
in the first quarter, the Tartans 
failed to capitalize on numerous 
scoring opportunities. The 
Duquesne defense shut the Tar
tan offense down for the remain
der of the first half, allowing just 
126 yards of total offense in the 
half. The Dukes neutralized the 
Tartans potent running attack, 
limiting Tartan backs to 53 firsthalf yards on 28 carries. It wasnt 
until midway through the third 
quarter that the Tartan offense 
got back on track.
We were confused a little bit in 
the first half, said fullback Fran 
Bellante, who gained 70 yards on 
the day. We got a little too 
emotional because it was a big 
game and we didnt have out heads 
together.
The Tartans first possession 
yielded the only points of the first 
half. Quarterback Billy Snyder 
hit halfback Scott Bamyak for a 
nine-yard touchdown. The score
Tartan quarterback Billy Snyder prepares to snap the ball in Saturdays 31-8 win for CMU over the Duquesmu 
Dukes. Carnegie Mellons win this weekend upped its record to a perfect 3-0.
yardline and failed to score. The his way forward for five yards and 
drive was highlighted by an 18- another Tartan first down, 
yard pass from Snyder to Barnyak But Snyder slipped for a loss of
on third-and-seven that brought 
the ball to the Duke 24. Then, on 
third-and-inches, from the 
Duquesne 14, Bellante powered
capped off a 12-play, 48-yard drive 
and gave the Tartans momen
tum, and the lead, early.
The momentum was shortlivecl. On their next possession, 
which began at the Duquesne 45, 
the Tartans drove to the .nine
four yards on the first down. On 
second down, Barnyak wa5 
dropped for another loss of four, 
Please see FOOTBALL, page l*i

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 1990
Tartans and Dukes battle in Gesling to 31-8 CMU win
FOOTBALL, from page 11
and on third down, Snyder was 
sacked for a loss of seven yards, 
pushing the Tartans back to the 
Duquesne 24. Joe Schwerhas 41- 
yard field goal attempt failed and 
the score remained 7-0 with just 
20 seconds left in the first quar
ter.
The Dukes took over to start 
the second quarter. Quarterback 
Todd Cunningham found halfback 
Jason Briscoe for 17 yards and a 
first down at the Duquesne 40. 
After a 15-yard clipping penalty 
on the ensuing play that pushed 
the Dukes back to their own 33, 
Cunningham hit receiver Andy 
Gonzales for 33 yards and another 
Duke first down.
The Dukes were unable to 
capitalize on their good field po
sition as the Tartan defense 
yielded just five yards on the next 
three plays. Onfourth-and-seven, 
Todd Marinkovich came out to 
try a 42-yard field goal, but the 
Dukes were whistled for delay-ofgame and Marinkovich failed to 
convert on his 46-yard attempt.
The Tartans took over and 
brought the ball down to the 
Duquesne 20, but the drive 
stalled, and on fourth-and-eight, 
Joe Schwerha came out to attempt 
a field goal. A delay-of-game 
penalty before the snap pushed 
the ball back five yards, and 
Snyder came back on the field to 
try for a first down on fourth and
13 from the Duquesne 25. 
Gonzales, who played both re
ceiver and defensive back for the 
Dukes, intercepted Snyders pass 
and the Dukes took over at their 
awn 20.
The turning point for the Tar
tans came at the end of the first 
aalf, and it was the defense that 
:reated the spark. Duquesne 
started with the ball on their own 
28. A 17-yard Cunningham-to"The defense came out in the second 
half and did a great job. As much as 
we like our defense to get us the ball, 
we like to play them back by putting 
the ball in the endzone.
 Quarterback Billy Snyder
Briscoe pass put the Dukes at 
their own 45. Two plays later, 
Cunninghanm connected with his 
favorite target, Gonzales, for 37 
yards to move the Dukes into 
Tartan territory at the 22. 
Cunningham connected with 
Gonzales two plays later for a 21- 
yard touchdown, but an illegal 
motion penalty nullified the 
touchdown and moved the Dukes 
back to the Tartan 26.
Cunningham hit Gonzales 
again for a gain of 18 and another 
first down to the Tartan eight, 
but on the ensuing play, Jack 
OSavage stepped in front of 
Cunninghams pass for his third 
interception of the season. The 
interception squelched
Duquesnes drive and preserved 
the Tartans 70 lead.
Jack did a great job on that 
play, said Lackner.
The Tartan defense created the 
first big break of the second half. 
On the Dukes second possession 
of the third quarter, Cunningham 
threw his second interception of 
the game, right into the hands of 
linebacker Mike Hession, who 
returned the interception three 
yards to the Tartan 34.
We knew our offense would get 
going in the second half, said 
Hession. We just had to give them 
a break. If we got the ball back for 
the offense, theyd drive it down 
and score.
The defense came out in the 
second half and did a great job, 
said Snyder. As much as we like 
our defense to get us the ball, we 
like to play them back by putting 
the ball in the end zone.
A 15-yard unsportsmanlike 
conduct penalty against the 
Dukes moved the b 
all to the Tartan 49 and the 
offense took over. Snyder engi
neered a seven-play 42-yard drive 
to the Dukes eight. From there, 
Bellante took the ball in for the 
Tartans second touchdown. 
Schwerha added the extra point 
and the Tartans led 140.
The Dukes moved the ball on 
their next possession, but in the 
wrong direction. Schwerhas 
kickoff put the Dukes deep in their 
own territory at the four y ardline. 
Clark tried to run the ball around 
the dominant Tartan line, but was 
pushed back for a loss of three. 
Two plays later, new Dukes quar
terback Ron McDermott was 
sacked in the end zone by nose 
tackle Marvin Germany for a 
safety.
We really seemed to come up 
with the big plays when we needed 
them, said Rodriguez.
With more points on the board, 
the Tartan defense took over, 
shutting the Dukes down com
pletely for the remainder of the 
third quarter. On the Dukes final 
two possessions, they gained a
total of five yards.
The Tartans most exciting of
fensive play of the game came 
with just 40 seconds left in the 
third quarter. On first and ten 
from the Duquesne 25, the Tar
tans tried a new variation on what 
has become their signature play, 
the Joker Criss-Cross. Rather 
than running after the second 
hand-off, the ball was pitched back 
to Snyder in a flea-flicker. Snyder 
stayed in the pocket and lofted 
the ball 25 yards to DeCaro for a 
touchdown.
That play came after a turn
over and we wanted to jump on 
that, said Snyder. So we went 
for the end zone with a little trick 
play and it worked fine. You dont 
do that every game, but it was a 
good time to run it, when they 
werent expecting it.
The Tart ail s went for a twopoint conversion after the touch
down. This time Snyder, who 
threw for 109 yards and two 
touchdowns in the game, hit 
Bamyak out of the backfield and 
the Tartans led 24-0.
Duquesne managed to avoid a 
shutout when it scored early in 
the fourth quarter. McDermott 
and the Dukes took over at their 
own 35. Two consecutive pass 
completions, for 12 and 9 yards, 
moved the Dukes into Tartan 
territory at the 47, and two plays 
later, McDermott hit Gonzales for 
34 yards and a touchdown. 
Gonzales, the Dukes most potent 
offensive weapon, had seven 
catches on the day for 153 yards 
to set a new school record.
Andy Gonzales is a great ath
lete, said Lackner. I give credit 
where credit is due. He had a 
great game today and made some 
big catches for them.
The touchdown capped off an 
impressive five-play, 65-yard 
drive. Trailing by 18 with under a
Stephen Kang/Tartan Photographer 
Sophomore John Fratto meanders his way through the Duquesne 
defense Saturday. The Tartans pulled out a 31-8 victory.
quarter left to play, the Dukes 
went for the two-point conver
sion. Once again, McDermott was 
on target, this time finding Brad 
Yoder in the end zone to narrow 
the Tartan lead to 24-8.
We wanted the shutout, said 
Hession. It was like bend but 
dont break.
The Tartans put the game out 
of reach with 7:37 left. Seven con
secutive running plays, including
14 and 31-yard scrambles by 
Snyder, moved the ball from the 
CMU 27 to the Duke 8. On firstand-goal, Snyder kept the ball on
a bootleg and dove into the end 
zone for the Tartans fourth 
touchdown of the game.. The 
Scherwa extra point made it 31- 
8.
The Tartans are now 3-0 over
all, 2-0 against their UAA rivals. 
They look for their fourth win this 
Saturday as they travel to 
Michigan to take on the Bulldogs 
of Adrian College.
Adrians a good football team 
and Im sure its going to be a 
great game next week, said 
Lackner. Well be ready for 
them.
Freshmen
The Facuity Mentor Program begins 
this week. All Freshmen are invited 
to participate in meetings with 
Facuity Members and Orientation 
Counselors. If you have not received 
notification of your meeting, contact 
Student Affairs at x2074.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 199013
Mens CC team goes 
up against Division II
SRU, from page 13.
vidual races as well. The second 
Tartan was senior Tim Berger 
who took 23rd in the meet, with 
a time of29:40. Next was senior 
Dan Holland in 32nd place and 
a time of 30:06. Close behind in 
35th place and a time of 30:12 
was junior John Byrnes. Gary 
Harrison was 43rd place in 
30:35. Sophomore Scott Phillips 
finished in 30:39, andfreshman 
Jeff Stroh completed the muddy 
course in 31:02, to help the Tar
tans to a respectable race.
The first two teams in the 
race, Shippensburg, who took 
third in the Division II National 
Championship last year, and 
Slippery Rock, who won the 
Indiana University of Pennsyl
vania Invitational last week are 
battling for top places in this 
years Division II National 
Championships. In fact, CMU 
was the first Division ifl school 
in the entire meet, holding their 
ground despite injuries and
sicknesses which have plagued 
the Tartans for several weeks.
Absent from the race were 
top performers senior Todd 
Balbera to illness andfreshmen 
Dave White and Ryan 
Kammerer to injuries. Other 
runners will continue to fight 
sicknesses throughout the fol
lowing weeks. Coach Gary 
Meckley feels that the team has 
reached its low point for miss
ing runners. Weve had enough 
sickness and injury now that 
Im looking for something good 
to happen, he said. He does not 
have to look far.
At the beginning of the sea
son, Coach,Meckley predicted 
that the team would be at best, 
fifth at the Regional Champi
onships in November. Now his 
outlook is even better. This 
race was probably tougher than 
Regionals will be, he explained. 
It is a pretty good indicator of 
what we can do in the [Mideast] 
Region.
Women take fifth at Carlisle
WOMEN, from page 11
Lowe. I was leading by 15 sec
onds.
As well as suffering individu
ally, the Tartans fell a notch in 
the finals standings at the end 
of the meet. We refigured the 
scores, and figured that we 
would have been fourth, said 
Donatelli.
CMU finished fifth with 92 
points. Shippensburg won the 
meet with 44 points, Gettysburg 
had 55, Dickinson had 70, and 
Swarthmore had 86.
Individual results for 
Carnegie Mellon included 
Kristin Burgard in fifth, Laura
Sibley in 14th, Megan Greig in 
18th, Lowe in 25th, and Sue 
Sparks in 30th.
Donatelli, Lowe, and the team 
are not that disappointed with 
the days events, however. Ac
cording to Donatelli, CMU 
ranked quite well against 
Shippensburg and Gettysburg, 
who were in the top five in the 
region last year.
Donatelli is not worried about 
his number-one runner. 
Carolyn is in the top three in 
the UAA, he said. She has a 
chance of winning [the UAA].
As for Lowe, I just have to 
pay more attention, she said.
Tennis edges Grove City 5-4
Stephen Kang/Tartan Photographer 
Although junior Jenni Borque lost her singles 
match, the Tartans won their match against 
Grove City 5-4
By KATIE CULBERTSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Losing9-0 last week to Indi
ana University of Pennsylva
nia, things lookedbleakforthe 
womens tennis team.
But with nowhere to go but 
up, the team redeemed itself 
Saturday on the home courts, 
pulling out a close, down-tothe-wire, 5-4 victory over 
Grove City College. The women 
lost to Robert Morris yesterday, 
3-6.
The teams season record 
now stands at two wins and 
three losses.
Filling up the singles roster 
were Mary Beth Ashbaugh in 
the first spot, Alice Garber at 
second, and Laura Ahr at 
number three, followed by 
Jenni Borque, Silvina Candia, 
and Whitney Weber. 
Ashbaugh, Candia, and
Whitney won singles matches 
for CMU.
In number one singles, 
Ashbaugh took Grove Citys 
KarenScibettainstraightsets, 
although shehadalittle trouble 
in the first set, pulling out the 
win 7-6. The second set was 
much easier, as Ashbaugh won 
6-2.
Candia won her first set over 
Kristy Springman of Grove City
67, but Springman squeaked 
by in the second set 7-6. The 
deciding third set went to 
Candia, 6-1. Candia and 
Springman played for three 
hours before Candia finally 
pulled out the win.
Webers match also went to 
three sets: 63, 2-6, 62.
In doubles, Ashbaugh and 
Garber teamed up to handily 
defeat Scibetta and Caren Hiser 
of Grove City, in straight sets
7-5, 6-1.
Ahr and Borque were not as - 
lucky, as they lost their num--; 
ber two doubles match 3-6,3 - 
6, to Grove Citys Amy Ruth- ' 
and Amy Wherley.
With the match score now!1 
standing at 44, Candia and,: 
Weber had their work cut out' * 
for them, and they brought th e 
match down to the wire, fi-j-' 
nally winning 2-6, 7-6, 6-1. - 
Candia, already tired from her 
three-hour singles match with1 ' 
Springman, and Weberlostthe': 
first set, then won the second; 
only after an 11-9 tiebreaker.1 
Yesterday, both the mens ' 
and womens tennis teams' ' 
played at Robert Morris Col-' 
lege. While the women lost, 
the men won 63.
For the men, Andrew Lee(number one singles), Matt . 
Davis (two), Mike Beaudry  
(five), Allan Battle (six) won' 
Please see TENNIS, page 16 2
Juniata defeats 
field hockey 4-0
By KATIE CULBERTSON
Tartan Sports Editor
The womens varsity field hockey team opened the 
1990 season Friday at home against Juniata College. 
TheTartans, despite losing the game 4r-0, were pleased 
with their performance.
After only three practices on turf, senior Sue Moll 
said she was happy with the outcome. We never gave 
up. Juniata was ranked last year, so I think we did 
really well against them, she said. Were really 
small, and we played a real good game.
Yesterday, the Tartans crossed town to Chathar* 
where they won 6-2. CMU will play Chatham two 
more times this season, according to Moll.
Wednesday, the Tartans travel to Indiana, PA to 
face IUP. The only other game this season will be back 
on the home turf October 12 against Slippery Rock 
University.
Jason Irwin/Tartan Photographer
Despite a 4-0 loss to Juniata Friday in Gesling, the womens field hockey team is 
pleased with its performance.
This Week In Sports
Today
Womens Tennis 
At Waynesburg College. 2:30 
;pm.
Tuesday, September 25
No events scheduled
Wednesday, September 26
Mens soccer 
Home against Washington & 
Jefferson College. 7:30 pm at 
Gesling Stadium.
'Womens Field Hockey 
At Indiana University of Penn
sylvania. 4:30 pm.
CMU Baseball Club 
Home agains St. Vincent Col
lege. 3 pm at Mellon Field, at the 
intersection of Fifth and Penn
Avenues.
Thursday, September 27
Golf
Allegheny College Invitational. 
The time of the invitational has 
yet to be announced.
Friday, September 28
No events scheduled
Saturday, September 29
Football 
The Tartans are at Adrian 
College. 1:30 pm. The game will 
be carried on WRCT.
Mens Cross Country
Home against Geneva College.
11 am at Flagstaff Hill.
Womens Tennis
At Case Western Reserve Uni
versity. 1 pm.
Rugby
The rugby club travels to 
Juniata College to play Juniata 
and University of Pittsburgh at 
Johnstown.
Womens Volleyball 
Westminster Collge Tourna
ment. Time has yet to be an
nounced.
CMU Crew 
Head of the Ohio Regatta. 8:30 
am at Roberto Clemente Park.
Sunday, September 30
Mens soccer 
Home against Brandeis Uni
versity. 1:30 pm at Gesling Sta
dium.
To Oakland Forbes Ave
Pittsburgh 
Pro 
Bikes 2012 Murray 
Avenue
521-2453?
Forbes Ave
><(X)
Beacon St
Pittsburgh Pro Bikes
521-2453
$50-200 off
on Road Bikes
Helmets 
10% off
I for CMU students only with COUpOn
ATTENTION JUNIORS:
Are you...
- in the upper 1/3 of your class, with at 
least a 3.00 QPA?
- interested in a career in government or 
public service?
- a U.S. citizen or national?
Then you should find out more about the
Hannry S. Tramarn Sdtoolan
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation was established by Congress in 
1975 as the official federal memorial to honor the 33rd President of the United 
States. In particular, the Truman Foundation extols President Trumans high 
regard for public service, his understanding of government, and his desire to 
enhance educational opportunities for all Americans.
In this spirit, the Truman Foundation (through the Truman Scholarship 
competition) seeks to encourage and support students (83 per year) during their 
undergraduate careers who have outstanding potential for leadership in public 
service. Winners receive up to $30,000 for tuition, fees, books, and room/board 
($3000 for the senior year of undergraduate school, and up to $27,000 in 
graduate school spread over two or three years of graduate study).
Preliminary applications due: October 30, 1990. Candidate interviews: mid 
November, 1990. Nominee selection: Immediately after applicant interviews.
Additional information: Come to a special informational meeting on Tuesday, 
October 2,1990 at 4:30 pm, in Baker Hall 355. Information and preliminary 
application packets are also available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, 
Baker Hall 161. Contacts (members of the CMU Truman Scholarship Faculty 
Selection Committee):
-Dr. Joseph E. Devine, Associate Dean of H&SS Baker Hall ] 61
-Dr. Lynn Holden, Associate Dean of CFA CFA 100
-Dr. Claudia Kirkpatrick, Associate Head, Industrial Management Program GSIA 206
-Dr. Barbara Lazarus, Associate Provost for Academic Projects Smith Hall 209
-Dr. Harold Miller, Associate Dean, School of Urban and Public Affairs Hamburg Hall 1101

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 1990
Rugby opens fall season with 15-4 crushing of Pitt
By TOM ANFUSO
Special to the Tartan
Carnegie Mellons rugby club 
opened its fall season with a 15-4 
rout of University of Pittsburgh 
last Saturday afternoon at Frick 
Park.
Despite muddy field conditions, 
the game was largely an offensive 
battle as backs on both teams 
fought to gain crucial ground.
In the end, Carnegie Mellons 
backfield simply dazzled and out
ran the Pitt defenders in a show 
of well-executed plays and supe
rior speed.
Not to be outdone by their backs, 
the Carnegie Mellon scrum im
pressively won most of the scrumdowns and held off a fierce, 10- 
minute long Pitt try-line attack 
in the last period of play.
The first 20-minute period got 
off to a slow start, with both teams 
feeling each other out in scrumSPORTS IN SEASON
Touch Football
Commissioners
Majors  Rich Romeo, x8335
Intermediate  Eric Pfefferle,
441-7003
Minors  Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4084
Women Only  Kris Pasqualin, 
x5978
Standings are posted on the IM 
bulletin board. Please play all 
games as scheduled. The IM de
partment is still looking for touch 
football officials; callx2214orstop 
by the IM office for more infor
mation.
SCHEDULE OF MAKE-UP 
GAMES
(dates and times are final)
Tuesday, Sept. 25
8:30 pm, Gesling Stadium 
SAE vs. German Soldiers 
Muckrakers vs. USS Carnegie
Wednesday, Sept. 26
4:30 pm, Flagstaff Hill 
Carnegie In vs. Minions of the 
Cow
5:30 pm, Flagstaff Hill 
KDR vs. Pioneers 
Sig Tau vs. Phi Kap A
Tuesday, Oct. 2
8:30 pm, Gesling Stadium
Zoo A vs. Kappa Sig
Theta Xi vs. Hostile Takeovers
Tuesday, Oct. 9
dominated play.
Jim Harris, CMUs veteran 
hooker, was pivotal in coordinat
ing his teams defensive stance 
and directing penalty play strat
egy.
Near the end of the period, 
Carnegie Mellon fly-half John 
Lucena deftly fielded a bad pass 
and outran Pitt defenders to put 
his team on the scoreboard. Neil 
Talsania accurately booted the 
points-after kick to set the score 
at 6-0.
The games tempo picked up in 
the second period, when both 
teams gained confidence, repeat
edly sending the ball out to their 
backfields for risky attacks.
Using looping plays and rapid 
passing, -the CMU backfield 
managed to keep the ball in Pitts 
territory a majority of the time. 
However, the Carnegie Mellon 
scrum had difficulty in line-outs, 
repeatedly being out-jumped by
IM News
Were going to show some people a 
thing or two this season.... We have 
every intention of making the student 
body proud of CMU rugby and justify
ing our funding in their eyes. The 
rugby club is definitely going to be a 
winner this fall. 
 Chris Devlin, 
Rugby Club vice president
Pitt and losing the ball.
In a struggle to redeem them
selves, the scrummies retaliated 
by driving Pitt off the ball in 
scrum-downs, winning possession 
for their backfield. Around the 
middle of the second period, 
blindingly-fast CMU inside cen
ter Neil Talsania showed off some 
of the footwork that has made 
him legendary in the Allegheny 
Rugby Union, as he easily ripped 
through a bewildered Pitt defense 
to set the score at 10-0. Sure
footed Gerry Stocker split the 
uprights to add another two points
for CMU. Shortly thereafter, 
Stocker scored again on a difficult 
penalty kick, upping Carnegie 
Mellons score another three 
points. An over-confident CMU 
squad, however, resorted to sloppy 
tackling and a Pitt scrummie 
banged through defenders to score 
on the last play of the period. Pitt 
missed the points-after kick, and 
the score remained 15-4.
Convinced that they could hold 
off a Pitt comeback, CMU substi
tuted some of its newer players in 
the third period. Offensive play 
was stagnant, as both teams 
scrummies slugged it out in a 
struggle to maintain field posi
tion.
Pitt managed to keep the ball 
deep in Carnegie Mellon territory 
and probably would have scored 
were it not for desperation runs 
and kicks from Kevin Lucas, 
CMUs outside center back. Fi
nally the whistle blew, and
Carnegie Mellon left the field exhausted but victorious, the score 
still 15-4.
Next Saturday, the rugby club 
heads to Juniata College, where 
they will play Juniata and PittJohnstown in a three team tour
nament. Both teams are tradi. 
tionally strong opponents, with 
heavy school backing and daily 
practices year-round. CMU beat 
Pitt-Johnstown last season, but 
lost to Juniata.
Were going to show some 
people a thing or two this season,1 
said rugby club vice president 
Chris Devlin. Maybe the 
admininstration doesnt give a 
damn about club sports, but were 
funded by the student activities 
fee. We have every intention of 
making the student body proud of 
CMU rugby and justifying our 
funding in their eyes. The rugby 
club is definitely going to be 
winner this fall.
Teams of 70s strong in 1990
8:30 pm, Gesling Stadium 
ECE D. Rams vs. Black Rain 
Blood & Glory vs. Phi Kap B
Tennis
Commissioner 
Todd Balbera, x8424 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. Please 
play 2 singles and one doubles 
match at the same time.
Eachmatch will be one six-game 
set. The team that wins two of 
three games wins the match. 
Please turn scores in to the IM 
office or the commissioner within 
24 hours.
Co-rec Volleyball
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. You 
must have three men and three 
women on the court to start the 
game.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Cross country
Commissioner 
Mark Pogozelski, x7549 
The meet is scheduled for 
Wednesday, October 3. Run as a 
team or as an individual. The 
course will be 1.9 miles and will 
be run in Schenley Park. A spe
cial heat will be run for women 
only.
Chess
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm.
Water Polo
Commissioner 
Tom Fabian, x8371 
Certified lifeguards will be on 
duty during all scheduled 
matches. Practice times will be 
posted this week.
Soccer
Commissioners
Majors  Scott Mills, x5308
Intermediate:JohnSupp,x8423
Minors  Sujit Bhattacharya,
x4084
Women Only  Kris Pasqualin, 
x5978
Entries are due October 11.
Six-Person Volleyball
Commissioners
Majors, Intermediate, Minors  
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Women Only  Kris Pasqualin, 
x5978
Entries are due October 4.
Bowling
Commissioner 
Kris Pasqualin, x5978 
Entries are due October 4. 
Games will be bowled Saturday 
mornings at Forward Lanes.
Racquetball
Commissioner 
Sujit Bhattacharya, x4084 
Entries are due October 4.
Compiled by 
JASON McDONALD
As if only to ruin my first major 
pick, the Denver Broncos with one 
minute left on the clock, drove 83 
yards, 49 of which came on a 4thand-10 play, to kick the gamewinning field goal, triumphing 
over the upstart Kansas City 
Chiefs 24-23.
The Chiefs trailed through most 
of the Monday Night match-up, 
but managed to take command in 
the last eight minutes of the game, 
scoring two touchdowns, one on a 
rare 83-yard pass reception, giv
ing Kansas City the lead, only to 
lose it and the game on a field goal 
by Denvers Treadwell with four 
seconds left in the game.
Sunday night, the Pittsburgh 
Steelers offense continued to 
sputter, giving it the dubious rec
ognition of being the worst of
fense in the league, but defen
sively dominated the confused 
Houston Oilers, winning 20-9. 
Pittsburghs scores came on a 26- 
yard interception return for a 
touchdown and a 52-yard punt 
return for six points. The Oilers 
were intercepted four times, and 
struggled against the Steelers 
defense with a new offense of their 
own, sliding to 02 going into 
yesterdays game with India
napolis.
After only two weeks, the Na
tional Football Leagues most 
dominant teams appear to be re
turning. The Raiders, Dolphins 
and Bears were undefeated head
ing into Sundays games, hoping 
that these two-game streaks 
would last a while longer. But 
remember, the Bears went
NFL NEWS
by David Martin
undefeated through last years 
first four weeks, before stumbling 
into a 2-10 slide for the rest of the 
year. And the Dolphins and Raid
ers showed promise last year, and 
continue to wreak havoc on oppo
nents thus far.
In legal matters, the fourth 
player ever to receive the death 
penalty from the commissioner 
was named last Thursday. Terry 
Taylor, comerback from Detroit, 
tested positive for drugs for the 
third time. Upon the test results, 
Taylor was banned for life from 
football, with, of course, the choice 
to apply for reinstatement in a 
year. The other three players to 
be banned for life: Tony Collins in
1988, who never returned; Dexter 
Manley of. the Washington 
Redskins, whose reinstatement 
deadline is approaching, and 
Frank Warren, banned during the 
off-season.
This week, the AFC East takes 
center stage on Monday. Night 
Football, pitting the Buffalo Bills 
against the New York Jets ajthe 
Meadowlands in New Jersey. The 
Jets surprised the nation, and 
Cleveland, Sunday when they 
held on to a half time lead to defeat
the Browns, 2421. The Bills 
suffered a catastrophic loss to Mi
ami, 30-7, and must win tonight 
to regain stature in a conference 
whose history is weak, but this 
year could prove to be a little 
more demanding. Buffalo 31, N.Y. 
Jets 17.
Highlight game for next weeks 
predictions: Green Bay versus 
Detroit. Both teams must win to 
retain a competitive edge in the 
NFC Central, after Detroits week 
one loss to Tampa, and the Pack
ers destruction at the hands 
the Bears last week. With Don 
Majikowskis inevitable return, 
the Packers offense hopes to be 
back on track. Detroit suffer; 
from the dreaded starting quar
terback controversy, though 
Rodney Peete will probably get 
the starting nod. Take the Pack
ers, 28-24, in the Silver dome.
Other predictions: The Giants 
should dominate Dallas, high
flying Denver over Buffalo, the 
Raiders over Chicago, Kansas 
City in a tussle against Marty 
Schottenheimers old team, 
Cleveland, San Diego at home 
against Houston, Philadelphia to 
beat on Indianapolis, the Jets in 
pick-em against New England, 
Washington again over Phoenix, 
continuing the job they did in 
week one, Minnesota over Tampi 
in the Metrodome, and lastly the 
Dolphins over the offensively 
weak Steelers here in Pittsburgh. 
Dont look for a blowout, though
Dave Martin is a freshman is 
H&SS majoring in psychology.
flours are:
10-8 (Mon tfim 
Sat
11-8 on SundaySA.L1COS
Lunch 
Deliveries 
Mon tfiru fri 
llam-2pm
MKD'DL'E ELS'T'E- g'RJE'ElC (D'ELI
Party Trays-serves 15 $26.50 
10% Off Takeout Menu With This Coupon
Fall ClassesModern 
Ballet 
Jazz 
Tai Chi
Big Band Social Dance
for children and adults, 
beginners to advanced students 
Classes Begin September 15
at the Carnegie 
4400 Forbes Avenue 
Call 621-6670
r0
US
*o.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling and 
Student Development 
Center 
268-2922
Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30 am - 
5 pm. For after Hours emergencies when 
the office is closed, call the Center..
An answering service operator will reach a 
counselor on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh 
782-4023
24- hour telephone counseling, crisis 
intervention, and supportive listening.
Drug Connection 
854-0700
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline. 5-9pm.
Counseling and Student Development Center, 
a Division of Student Affairs
Graduating Engineers / Technical Majors
Want a Real Job?
Start your search at theCorporate Exposition
Wednesday, September 26 
10:00 am to 4:00 pm 
University of Pittsburgh William Pitt Union Assembly Room
(Orange brick building across the street from the Cathedral of Learning)
Over 30 companies will be in attendance looking for graduating seniors to discuss career 
opportunities as well as co-op opportunities and summer internships for sophomores 
and juniors. Dont start the job search without attending this informative event!
Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh Engineering Student Council

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 199015
Bonds catapults to lead in MVP race
The Pittsburgh Pirates left 
fielder Barry Bonds has done what 
has been done only once before. 
He has joined two groups of elite 
players in the history of baseball.
With his first home run 
Wednesdayin Chicago, hebecame 
the 15th member of the 30/30 
club. Membership is limited to 
players who hit at least 30 home 
runs and steal at least 30 bases in 
a season. And with his stolen base 
in the fourth inning Friday 
against St. Louis in frotit of30,000 
home fans, he joined Eric Davis of 
the Reds as the only the second 
member of the 30/50 club. Barry 
now has hit 32 home runs and 
stolen 50 bases. He is also batting 
.308 and battling for the National 
League MVP award.
Bobby Bonds, Barrys father,
achieved 30/30 status five times 
throughout his carrer, including 
his first full season in the majors. 
Bobby was also nearly the .char
ter member of the 40/40 club, 
which Oaklands Jose Canseco is 
the only member of. The Bonds 
are also the only father/son com
bination to accomplish the feat.
Before this season, the junior 
Bonds had displayed great po
tential. He led all rookies in home 
runs, RBIs and stolen bases in 
1986 as well as becoming only the 
second Pirate to join the 20/20 
club in only his second season. 
His numbers throughout his first 
four years in the major leagues, 
all with Pittsburgh, were well 
above average. He entered the 
season with a .256 batting aver
age and averaging 21 home runs
Egg
THE MAJOR LEAGUES
by Caleb Cohen
and 29 stolen bases. His previous 
highs for home runs and stolen 
bases were 25 and 36.
Bonds is battlingteammate and 
friend Bobby Bonilla for the MVP 
award. Bonilla has hit 31 home 
runs and has 112 RBIs, but is 
batting only .281.
Bonds teammate pitcher Doug 
Drabek is also in consideraton for 
the MVP as well as the Cy Young,
TOUCH FOOTBALL
MAJORS
Beta
Crunch Bunch 
GSIA A-Team 
AT0
Capitalist Pigs 
Pika A
INTERMEDIATE
DIVISION A 
Spirit 
Zoo A 
Kappa Sig 
Theta Xi
Hostile Takeovers
DIVISION B 
IMP Completions 
Gini Pips 
ATO
The Untouchables 
Delta Upsilon
MINORS
DIVISION A 
Sig Tau 
Phi Kap A 
The Weasles 
Pioneers 
KDR
The Burglars
DIVISION C 
Pika C
Delta Upsilon B 
SAEC 
Theta Xi B 
Schlags 
Scobell 4
DIVISION D 
DTD A
Copies
Before
School
When you have a deadline to 
meet, depend on Kinko's, the 
open early" copy center.
kinko*s
the copy center
3710 Forbes 
3945 Forbes 
Ave.
IM Scoreboard
DIVISION C
SAE A 10
Pi Alpha Delta 1  0
USS Carnegie 1 1
The German Soldiers 0 1
Muckrakers 0 1
DIVISION B
SAE B 2 0
Black Rain 2 0
ECE D. Rams 1 0
Chess Club 0 0
Doherty Destroyers 0 2
Trojans 0 3
(ECE D. Rams tied the Chess 
Club.)
USS Mellon 
Blood & Glory 
Phi Kap B 
Carnegie In... 
Minions of the Cow
DIVISION E 
KSA 
Zoo B 
3D
Mr. Softees 
Tudor Roaches
DIVISION F 
Theta Xi A 
Green Aces 
Manie...
Doherty Dinosaurs 
Pilam
DIVISION D 
Marvelous Misfits 
USS Carnegie 
Wombats 
Networkers
WOMENS LEAGUE
Theta 1
Delta Gamma 0
AWFF 0
Kappa Alpha Omega 0
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
MAJORS
SCS Networkers 
Barcrawlers 
Slugs 
Spycho
INTERMEDIATE
DIVISION A 
Robotics A 
ASA A-Team 
Hedgehogs II 
Theta Xi A 
Jolly Ranchers
DIVISION B
KSA II 1
The Committed 1
Barcrawlers Plus 0
Kalvin and the Hobs 0 
Robotics B 0
0 MINORS
0
2 DIVISION A
1 Pi Alpha Delta
1 Jack D. Gralps
Pioneers 
Phi Kap
0 Henderson 
0
1 DIVISION B
1 Don't Call Me Shirley
2 Green Aces 
Morewood 1 
Zoo
0 Jigsaw
0
0 DIVISION C
1 Phi Upsilon 
Mathletes 
ASA B-Team 
Psychos
Doherty Dinosaurs
0
0 DIVISION D
1 Pioneers A
1 Morewood 2
Miasma
Tilt, the VB Team 
The Donner Force
0
1 DIVISION E
1 Pioneers
1 ASA C-Team
1 Welch Wonder
Desert Vultures 
Big Kahuna
0
0 DIVISION F
0 The Contenders
1 Rabid Penguins _
1 Sig Tau B
CIA
DIVISION C 
KSA I 
ECE Kids 
GSIA I 
Fringe A 
Hedgehogs 1
DIVISION 6 
Fringe B 
Sig Tau A 
Pioneers C 
Theta Xi B
The latest looks for 
him and her. Soft 
and shaped. Up
dated. Now. Cuts 
^ \ " that move with body
and volume. Sophis
ticated style from 
our experts.
EXPECTATIONS
GET WHAT YOU EXPECT
237 AtwoocTSt. 687-3500
Across the street from the Oakland Post Office
Mon-Fri 10-7 Sat 9-6
$2.00 Off
I On a Precision Haircut |(complete with wash & style)
I Expires 9/30/90 IL J
Free Hair Consultation 
Also Available:
 Perms
 Conditioning
 Frosting
 Coloring
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
with a 20-6 record and 2.87 ERA.
He also faces stiff competition 
from the Cubs Ryne Sandberg, 
who has compiled 37 home runs 
and has stolen 31 bases and is 
batting .310. Darryl Strawberry 
of the Mets is also making a run 
at the award with 36 home runs 
and 106 RBI. Strawberry is hit
ting an uncharastically high bat
ting average of .286.
Unless David Justice of Atlanta 
can supplement his current home 
run total of 26 in less than 90 
games in his rookie season, Barry 
Bonds seems to have a lock on the 
trophy. His accomplishment in 
joining the 30/50 club is in itself 
enough to warrent the crown of 
MVP in any league.
Caleb Cohen is a sophomore 
math / computer science major.
Soccer blows lead In overtime to Emory
SOCCER, from page 11
card for deliberately lacking 
CMUs George Gaughan. The 
man advantage, combined with 
the wind advantage, seemed to 
shift the game back to CMU.
Unfortunately, Emory gotone 
last chance and made good. 
Junior defenseman Scott Kelly 
scored on a well-executed comer 
kick with only 3:20 to play in 
the contest; the Tartans couldnt 
get their offense going again 
and fell to the Eagles, 3-2.
Theyre a very seasoned 
team, said head coach Nick 
Gaudioso. Theyve got seven 
seniors starting, and they 
played really well. Theyre al
ways a power in this conference.
In the weeks other action, 
the Tartans dropped their first 
road game of the year against 
the University of Rochester on 
Friday night. The Tartans lost
21, with the winning goal 
coming with only ten minutes 
left in the game. Kang notched 
the only Tartan score in the 
losing effort.
The Tartans hope to get back 
on the winning track this week 
with a pair of home games. The 
Tartans host former PAC rival 
Washington & Jefferson 
Wednesday before returning to 
UAA action with a Sunday af
ternoon game against Brandeis 
University.__________________
Volleyball loses at Ohio tournament
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Copy Manager
The Carnegie Mellon womens 
volleyball team played in two 
different gears last week. The 
Tartans were in first when they 
defeated Washington and 
Jefferson (6-15, 16-14, 15-13) 
and played tough against Carlow 
(11-15, 9-15).
The weekend saw a different 
gear as the Tartans lost their three 
pool play matches in the Ohio 
Northern tournament and did not 
qualify for the playoffs.
On Tuesday night, Carnegie 
Mellon had another nail-biting 
match, this time against Wash
ington and Jefferson, followed by 
an impressive performance 
against a good Carlow team. Head 
coach Charolette Fisher was 
pleased with Tuesdays events. 
The team played as a unit and 
didnt roll over and die against 
Carlow, said Fisher.
We were a little rattled when we got 
there.
 senior captain Nicole Hanak
Friday and Saturday during the 
Ohio Northern Tournament, the 
Tartans won only a single game 
against three teams  Ohio 
Northern (215,015), College of 
Wooster (10-15, 8-15), and Au
rora (0-15, 18-6, 10-15). We 
should have been at least the 
number two team in our pool, 
said Fisher. We waited until the 
last match of the day to play well. 
According to Fisher, when the 
Tartans do play well in matches 
and gain a lead, we have a real 
hard time holding on to it.
In order to try and spark CMUs 
staling offense, Fisher switched 
from a 6-2 offense (with two set
ters) to a 51 offense (with one
setter). Lisa Devlin, the lone set
ter in the 5-1 for the Tartans, 
adjusted well to the system.
We were a little rattled when 
we got there, said senior captain 
Nicole Hanak, because the bus 
arrived with only 20 minutes be
fore the matches on Friday and 
Saturday, and consequently our 
heads never made it to the gym. 
Hanak believes that Carlow was 
a much better team than any they 
played in the tournament this 
weekend.
Our communication kind of 
broke down...[but] we definitely 
had the skills to beat the teams 
we played, said sophomore 
Elizabeth Rowlands.
Classifieds
Housing
Roommate Wanted- 1BR, Sq. Hill 
on Darlington. Newly refurbished. 
Share $425/month & electric. Call 
421-0651.
Short Term- Shadyside Inn 
Apartment Suites. Elegantly 
furnished, well appointed, Studio 1 
& 2 bedroom suites, fully equipped 
kitchen. Includes free cable (HBO), 
phone, parking, linens. One block to 
Walnut St. shops. From $41 per day. 
Daily & Weekly rate available. 441- 
4444.
Jobs
Activists-Environmentalists:
Work 3 days a week, 1:30-10:30 PM, 
andearn$165-$200perweek. Clean 
Water Action, 765-3053. Ask for 
Dion.
Spring Break/Christmas Break 
Tours- Individuals or student 
organizations needed to promote our 
Ski/Sun Tours. Earn Money an d Free 
Trips to Cancn, Daytona, Vermont, 
Montreal. Call HI-LIFE 1-800-263- 
5604.
Earn Easy $$$ by participating in 
a psychology experiment at CMU. 
Takes about an hour. Earn $5.00 
per hour. Contact Victoria or Rory 
at 268-5210.
Travel Free!! Sun Splash Tours 
offers the most exciting and 
affordable Spring Break packages to 
Jamaica and Cancn!!! The easiest 
and fastest way to earn free travel 
and extra $$$ ! Become a
representative-call 1-800-426-7710.
Healthy Women-ages 18-37 (34for 
smokers) needed for oral 
contraceptive study at MageeWomens Hospital. One year 
commitment. Reimbursement. For 
details call 647-4259 ( Mon. - Fri.).
Attention: Fraternities, Sororities, 
Clubs, and Individuals. Trip 
organizers wanted for fantastic Ski 
and Sun Tours. Earn cash 
commissions and/or go for free. Call 
the #1 company in college travel, 
Moguls Skin and Sun Tours, Inc., 1- 
800-666-4857.
Earn $500-$1500 part-time 
stuffing envelopes in your home. For 
free information, send a selfaddressed, stamped envelope to: 
P.O. Box 81953, Albuquerque, NM 
87198.
Progressive retailer looking for 
student to aid in window displays 
and signage. Salary negotiable. Call 
281-3005 Mondays between 5:00 
and 9:00 pm.
Earn $ While you Learn $
Attention: Grad students and young 
entrepreneurs. I can teach you to 
build a business with unlimited 
income before you graduate. 
Projected salesin excess of $1 billion 
annually. Soon to be Fortune 500. 
Get ahead start! 24hr/ans 565-0158.
Services
Stunguns: legal, powerful
protection - Teargas: attacker is 
rendered helpless *Gun Martial 
Arts. Attention: college students, 
young adults - Marys Shoppe. 835- 
2204.
Bodyguard: Earpiercing, hand 
held, electronic alarm system for a 
total of only $20.81. Call Consumer 
Marketing Network at (412) 741- 
8054. Protect yourself or get one for 
a loved one.
Collegiate Express Connection
offers roundtrip charter bus 
transportation September 27-30. 
Yom Kippur and pre-midterm break. 
Harrisburg, Reading, King of 
Prussia/Morristown, Philadelphia, 
Cherry Hill, NJ. Call Collegiate 
Express Connection at 687-7488 now 
for reservations.
Is it true... Jeeps for $44 through 
the U.S. govt? Call for facts! 504- 
649-5745 ext. S-636.
Miscellaneous
Individual seeking to purchase 
sketches, paintings, & sculptures. If 
you have work youd like to sell call 
281-3005, Mondays 5:00 to 9:00 pm 
and ask for Esther.
Private Adoption is a
compassionate and perfectly legal 
way to show your love for your child. 
This choice offers you paid medical 
and legal expenses, no foster care or 
agency hassles, and a cozy place to 
live while pregnant.
We will be a milk and cookies Mom 
and a little league Dad, and we 
promise a full and happy life for a 
child.
We are easy to talk with and care 
about your needs. If you would like 
tomeet with us, or simply talk, please 
call us collect (412) 836-4754.
Parties *** Parties *** Parties - 
We have everything for your party 
at Papermart - One Stop Party \"Ea Scilc 
Shopping. Stroll down Morewood 
Avenue to Baum Boulevard. Theme 
decorations. Lots of fun doodads and 
fantastic la-de-dah. Gag gifts and 
Fake vomit. Great greeting cards.
681-8900.
Oak computer desk with hutch, 
printer stand, and computer chair. 
$200.00 Call 242-3897.
SpringBreak SailingBahamas45ft Captained Yachts. Groups of 6 
to 8. Sven days barefoot in the 
Bahamas. $488.00 each including 
accommodation & meals. SPRING 
BREAK HOTLINE - 1-800-999- 
7245, 10am to 8pm.
***Low Student Fares *** AYH 
Passes *** EurailPasses *** 
TravelBooks *** All to be found at 
Forum Travel. Visit us at 4608 
Winthrop St. (off South Craig) or call 
us at 681-4099.
Airline ticket- One way
Pittsburgh toSan Francisco, October 
13. $250.00. Call (614) 262-5193 to 
leave a message.
Please send Classifieds to The Tar
tan, Box 50, Carnegie Mellon Uni
versity, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Call 
268-2111 for more information.

---------------------------------------------------

16The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 1990
National Scoreboard
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Minnesota 6, Texas 4 
Toronto 5, Cleveland 4 
New York 5, Boston 4 
Baltimore 2, Milwaukee 1 
Kansas City 4, Califonia 0
NATIONAL LEAGUE
 Pittsburgh 7, St, Louis 2 
New York 7, Chicago 3
Atlanta 3, Houston 0
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE
Houston 24, Indianapolis 10 
San Diego 24, Cleveland 14 
NY Giants 20, Miami 3 
Kansas City 17, Green Bay 3 
Chicago 19, Minnesota 16 
New Orleans 28, Phoenix 7 
Cincinnati 41, New England 7 
Washington 19, Dallas 15
Womens slide past 
Grove City; men win
TENNIS, from page 13
their matches while the number two duobles team of Davis and Mike 
Ference and number three team of Beaudry and Batlle won their 
matches. The mens record stands at 1-0.
Yesterday, the womens winners were Candia and Weber in singles 
and their number three doubles team.
The womens team has a chance to even its record at 500 tonight, 
as it travels to Waynesburg College. Later in the week, the Tartans 
are on the road again, facing Case Western Reserve University in 
Cleveland on Friday.
The Tartans are not back home until next week, when they go up 
against next-door-neighbors Pitt next Wednesday.
swimming wrestling golf intramurals hockey basketball lacrosse 
crew football field hockey soccer track and field cross country 
baseball ultimate frisbee swimming wrestling golf intramurals 
hockey basketball lacrosse crew football field hockey soccer track 
and field cross country baseball ultimate frisbee swimming wres
tling golfintrfunurals hockey bask&hp-ll lacrosserrew football field 
hockey socceif^t^f^fc%f^^% ultimate
frisbee swimming wrestling golf iniKimurals hockey basketball 
lacrosse crew football field hockey soccer track and field cross 
country baseball ultimate frisbee swimming wrestling golf 
intramurals hockey basketball lacrosse crew football field hockey 
soccer track and field cross country baseball ultimate frisbee 
swimming wrestling golf intramurals hockey basketball lacrosse
Stop by Skibo 50 or call x2111 and ask for Katie or Jason to write.
Over twenty years ago,
ARCO Chemical Company 
envisioned themselves as a world tech
nology and market leader. Today, we are one of 
the world's leading manufacturers and marketers of 
propylene oxide, tertiary butyl alcohol, styrene monomer 
and related intermediate and specialty chemicals used in a 
broad spectrum of products.
Turning vision into reality doesn't happen all by itself. It requires a plan of 
action, sufficient financial resources to pursue global opportunities, and most im
portantly, the brightest and best people preparing to enter the workforce as 
tomorrow's leaders.
ARCO Chemical representatives will be on campus on October 18, 1990 to 
conduct interviews with Chemical Engineers (BS/MS/PhD) and Chemists 
(PhD).
These are exciting and rewarding times at ARCO Chemical Company and 
considerable opportunities await the talented individuals who will help shape our 
future. Sign up today for your personal interview with ARCO Chemical. Because 
anywhere else is yesterday.
ARCO Chemical ir
"Seeking the Leaders of Tomorrow"
Corner the Business Job Market
Computer Science and other Engineering graduates
Combine your computer experience and knowledge with your interest in business: The Real Estate Department of Goldman, Sachs & Co. is looking for Financial Systems Analysts.
Who is Goldman Sachs?Goldman, Sachs & Co. is a full-service investment banking and securities firm serving corporations, institutions, governments and individuals worldwide. Established in 1869, we are one of the oldest, largest and most strongly capitalized firms in our industry.
The Real Estate Department is involved in arranging sales and financings of real estate assets, mortgage transactions, mergers & aquisitions, and portfolio restructurings for clients around the world. For example, we arranged the $850 million financing of the tallest building in the world, the Sears Tower in Chicago.
What is a Financial Systems Analyst?Financial Systems Analysts develop and maintain the department's software and hardware systems. We use computers for diverse tasks from valuating Real Estate assets to keeping track of investors and clients. Analysts also become involved in the valuation of properties and the execution of transactions.
If you are interested in a fast-paced environment, working with the latest technology to solve business and finance problems, networks, databases and communication with users, we would like to hear from you.
Who: December Bachelors graduates in:Computer Science Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Other engineering and technical fields When: Monday, November 5, 1990Where: Carnegie Mellon Career CenterHow: 1 ) Turn your resume in for our prescreening interview byFriday, September 282) Sign up at the Career Center from Monday, October 22 through Thursday, November 13) Send your resume by November 1 to:Kraig DanielsonGoldman, Sachs & Co.85 Broad Street, 17th floor New York, NY 10004
New York London Tokyo Boston Chicago Dal lu Detroit Hong Kong Houston Los Angeles Memphis Miami Montreal Philadelphia San Francisco Singapore Sydney Toronto Zurich
oldman
An oqual opportunity omptoyor
CalabriasItalian Restaurant
can 362-3446
4911 Penn Ave. 
Bloomfield - Garfield
50 OFF 
ANY 
CALZONE
Coupon Expires 12-30-90On* coupon pf purchee*. Mention coupon whan I ordering. Prent Coupon upon deltmy or ptefc-up.
Fast & Free Delivery! ttzZSsZsI No Checks
Free Delivery To Most Paris Of: Bloomfield, Garfield, Shadyside, Oakland,
Lawrenceville, Morningside, Stanton Heights,
*5 Minimum Most Areas East Liberty, Highland Park, Squirrel Hill
Monday - Thursday: 11 am to 1 1 pm 
Friday: 1 1 am to 12 midnight
Saturday: 4 pm to 12 midnightSaturday: 4 pm to 12 midnight
Now Open Sunday 4 pm to 11 pm
We Deliver All Items on Our MenuWe Deliver All Items 011 Our Menu
Note: Last order taken for delivery 1 hour before closing time each day
? O uMt 2h55y 1 ?
I with any 3 toppings I
1 plus 2 liter tall
| bottle of^  
Pepsi*6.99!
I Additional Toppings *1.25 1 Coupon Expires 12-30-90j One coupon per purcteee. Mention coupon hen ,  ordering. Prosjnt coupon upon drtwy of pick-up.9
r *1.00 OFF i LARGE STROMBOLI
. Coupon Expires 12-30-90
PIZZA
PLAIN
1 ITEM
2 ITEMS
3 ITEMS
4 ITEMS 
DELUXE 
SUPER DELUXE
*795
S945
$1095
.75
S JOO 
$125
$1245 $150 
$1395 $175
$1450 
$1795
TOPPINGS : Pepperoni, mushrooms, sausage, onions, green peppers, hot peppers, black 
olives, green olives, extra cheese, meatballs, anchovies, shrimp, ham 
Note : Shrimp counted as 2 items.
; -.t- - 
I Plus 2 Liter Pepsi aKv 
I $10"
12 Large 12 cut Pizzas
I  ~
I 
I
I Coupon Expires 12-30-90I
Ons coupon per purchM. Hanbon coupon tien ordering. Present coupon upon de* wry or pki-up.
(Additional Toppings *139 covers toppings lor both pizzas)PEP
9
HALF WHOLE
1.) Italian. . . ... ______>2 *4 11.)
2.) Hot Sausage........................*25 425 12.)
3.) Meatball.........................25 *425 13.)
4.) Cheese-Steak........................25 s4= 14.)
5.) Vfel Parmigiana...............250 *495 15.)
6.) Chicken Parmigiana. .250 *495 16.)
7.) Eggplant Parmigiana. 250 425 17.)
8.) Ham & Cheese.................*2= s425 18.)
9.) Capicolla & Cheese. . .'2* 425 19.)
10.) Turkey Club....................25 4 20.)
HOAGIES"
HALF WHOLi
Salami & Cheese : . . .*2M >4
Pizza Sub............... . .!25 !395
Cheese Sub. ..... . :>2S s395
Tuna Fish...........................25 l425
Fish. . ....................................*250 *450
Ham Bar B-Q..................*25 425
Hamburger........................2s0 39!
Cheeseburger..................*250 l450
Roast Beef...........................250 *4S0
Italian Hot Dog...............I50
2MgUbyme Cs, 
BhssegH 0et Cs, Thoe Wgoeg krg cAS 
2ghUe Wg kgee 
Khteg Wi 2eamh
Coupon Expires 12-30-90
^^rttSg^'pTiStri^^o^upon detveiyoT|*=k-up. _____I
2Y'uGCTV N 
B?EEV'TH 0Vq 
LqG B?EEV'FREE
Coupon Expires 12-30-90On coupon par purfe ManBon coupon whan ordering. 5,II coupon upon tWKtrf or pick-up. 
DINNERS
All Dinners come with Bread or Garlic Bread^
Spaghetti with plain sauce................. s450
Spaghetti with meat sauce................. s495
Spaghetti with meatballs or sausage . s575
Linguini with plain sauce.................... s450
Linguini with meat sauce.................... s495
Linguini with meatballs or sausage . s575
Gnocchi with plain sauce.................... s450
Gnocchi with meat sauce.................... s495
Gnocchi with meatballs or sausage .. s575
Ziti with plain sauce............................ s450
Ziti with meat sauce............................ s495
Ziti with meatballs-or sausage.......... s575
Tortellini with plain sauce................. s495
Tortellini with meat sauce................. s550
Tortellini with meatballs or sausage . s595
Linguini with white or
red clam sauce........................................ s595
Baked Ziti ............................................... S595
Fettuccini Alfredo................................. s695
Tortellini Alfredo................................... 5595
Eggplant Parmigiana with Spaghetti . s595
Chicken Parmigiana with Spaghetti . sg95
Veal Parmigiana with Spaghetti .... S750
Lasagna meat or cheese........................ S525
Rigatoni with plain sauce...................$450
Rigatoni with meat salice................... S495
Rigatoni with meatballs or sausage . 5575
Manicotti.......................................................S495
Meat Ravioli........................................... S495
Cheese Ravioli................................. S495
Stuffed Shells...............................................S495
Shrimp Scampi with Linguini............ sg9s
Bar-B-Q Ribs.......................................... S595
12 Cut Pizza
with any one topping 
plus 2 liter 
bottle ofpepsi $"y og
Additional Toppings s1.25 
Coupon Expires 12-30-90On coupon per pit I Me Mian coupon afteri'
A
tFR
-SALADS
Tossed Salad......*l9s
Antipasto...........*295
Tuna Salad........*295
Steak Salad.........*475
Shrimp Salad.....*475
Chef Salad.........*475
Dressing: Italian, 
Creamy Italian,
Lo Cai Italian, 
French, Ranch, 
Thousand Island, 
Bleu Cheese
SOUP.
Chicken
Wedding
Vegetable
Minestrone
$169
 CALZONES ----
Regular 
(Ham, Capicolla, Salami, 
Ricotta, Mozzarella & 
Sauce $425
Steak
(Steak, Ricotta, s425 
Mozzarella, Sauce)
Meatball $395
(Meatball, Ricotta, 
Mozzarella, Sauce)
Plain........... s295
ricotta, mozzarella & sauce. 
with Pizza Toppings. .'50' 
additional charge)
I Purchase 3
Whole Hoagies 
FRReceive 4th FREE
I OR 2 Liter Bottle 
I of Pepsi
I Coupon Expires 12-30-90& PSP ImOne oeupon per pweftaee. KwOoa Mtpea nfcenI i**(.NirtoeMii*Nni>Hi*
-SIDE ORDERS
Pizza by the slice.......75'
(Extras)............................25 Chili.....................................1.99
French Fries..............99 Provolone Stix...............................2.50
Cheese Fries............*1.50 Chicken Nuggets........5/!1.75 or 10/!2.75
Italian Pretzels.....3/*1.75 Spicy Chicken Nuggets.5/l.75 or 10C2.75
Breaded Zucchini....*1.95 Chkken Wings.............3/M.95 or 6/2.95
Onion Rings.............*1.95 hrimp.& Fries..............................*3.99
Breaded Mushrooms..'1.95
- STROMBOLIS 
Ham, capicolla, salami, 
mozzarella, provolone, 
sauce & spices 
Rolled in fresh Homemade dough.
Small 395 
Large 695

---------------------------------------------------

dossier
literature mm design
Vol. 12 No.l
just
when
you
thought 
it was 
safe

---------------------------------------------------

Welcome to Dossier. I'll be the first to admit that the name Is a little difficult. Just be thankful it's 
not Fahrvergnugen. Once a month, when you open The Tartan, Doss/erwill fall Into your lap. We 
assume no liability for papercuts. Dossier is a literary magazine devoted to student writing - short 
stories, poems, essays, one-act plays, and if theres room, recipes and legal advice. My name is Jack, 
and I'm the literary editor. I decide what gets published in these pages. I am also responsible for 
proofreading the Fence.
A word of warning: don't confuse Doss/erwlth similar-looking campus publications. Here's a handy 
chart you can clip and save to help you tell us apart:
Name Type of Publication How to Distinguish it from Dossier
kar-neg'-e Tartan's monthly magazine Name is even more baffling than Dossier
Student Union alternative campus paper Uses the word "bourgeois more often
Im glad that Dossier is a part of The Tartan. There's a little something for everyone in The Tartan. 
Some people read the sports, some read the comics, and Ive even heard there's a guy In Mudge who 
reads Vox Populi. I think theres something for everyone in Dossier, as well.
Our featured topic for this month is cruelty to animals, which plays a part in two of our three 
selections. Dossier in no way endorses the unethical treatment of any living creature. But it sure is 
fun to read about.
I'm sorry that this Issue is a bit on the skimpy side. We're still getting our act together here at 
Dossier headquarters. So just think of this as a trial size." Well be back next month with a much 
larger issue, Including works by Javier Grillo-Marxuach and Sean Kracklauer, originally slated for this 
issue.
There are a lot of very good and very diverse writers on this campus. Their work deserves to be 
read outside of the classroom once In awhile. Ill try to feature as many of these writers as possible in 
Dossier osier the course of the year. Chris Shields, our design editor, will be working with the best 
design students on campus to make the writers' words look good on the page.
Writing can be a very personal thing. Our contributors are willing to share their thoughts and 
feelings with you. That takes some courage. If you can take a little time to look at their work, I'd 
appreciate It. And I know youll enjoy It.
Jack Silbert
English Department Update:
Frank Nepa reports that Gary Waller's Absences and Silences convention, scheduled for last week, was 
canceled. Evidently, no one showed up, and even if they had, they wouldn't have said anything.
Dossier wants to publish your work! Send your short stories, poems, essays, and 
plays to Dossier, c/o The Tartan, Room 50, Skibo. All submissions must be 
accompanied by name, address, and phone number. The submission deadline for 
our next issue is Monday, October 8.

---------------------------------------------------

"Bringing up Cats
Poem by Ronald K. Lee 
Designed by Andrew Mllntoe
"Jump"
Short Story by Jennifer Bannan 
Designed by Kelley Albert
"Apd the 91/2 Weeks Poster Came Down Around Us" 
Poem by Elizabeth Cronlse 
Designed by Chris Shields

---------------------------------------------------

Ronald K. Lee 
Bringing up Cats
During dinner one nighl
my father said that cats
were once used not only to catch
mice, but rats, the bigs ones
that needed traps about the size
of large shoe boxes. When he was young
and living in Burma, the War
had made people, rats, and cats
close neighbors. They found bomb
shelter in the same cool, musty
cellars underneath their crumbled
homes, where light only shone
on spots no human or animal
would sit. Sometimes they even fed
on each other. It was a real
symbiotic relationship.
When the world above them 
seemed to have stopped rumbling, 
my father crawled out of his hole 
and usually tried to corner 
a rat alone and unaware 
against the houses surrounded 
by their own rubble, then told
his brother to fetch a stray
cat from somewhere. Theyd watch
the two tear at each others flesh
in a cloud of dust and hair. Furry bodies
stained white, exchanging saliva foam,
they ground their teeth in shrills and snarls
while fresh blood seeped through grains
of smoked dirt, clumping together
into little red mud balls
they wished they could have tasted.
Occasionally shells whistled
past them and crashed thunderously
on more buildings, crushing the tiniest
of skulls, blackening skin and sky,
springing insides loose like a dropped
basket of snakes, not far
from the battle taken place
in the small arena of brick
crumbs. The cat usually won,
my father said, and afterwards
theyd bury the corpse in the stone
piles among others who werent meant
to be buried there.

---------------------------------------------------

JUMP
Jennifer B annan
The first time she saw Jake he was spinning in circles. He was 
swinging around a string with a fat green and purple june bug tied to the 
other end by one hairy little foot.
Tammy climbed down the side of the swamp buggy and brushed 
the dirt off of her knees. She looked at him through her hair. Two little 
dirty-faced kids jumped up and down beside him, just out of the circle of 
the flying bug. She could hear the buzzing from across the camp, a loud 
and frantic sound, but soothing all the same.
He stopped spinning and the bug hit the ground. One of the kids 
started screaming for the string and Jake handed it over. Just hold your 
arm out straight in front of you and start spinning. Hell take off." The 
kid started around and around and die poor june bug was off and buzzing 
again.
Jake sauntered up to the buggy, looking right at her in a way that 
made her nervous. She whipped around and called to her dog Winston. 
The old hound jumped down and trotted over to her. She scratched 
behind his soft black ears, then turned back slowly to look at Jake.
Tammys dad was up.in the back of the buggy already, throwing 
rubber boots down on the muddy ground. Come on girl, gimme some 
help, he said to Tammy.
Ill give ya a hand, Ted, Jake offered. He reached up for the 
box of tools Tammys dad was handing over the side. She admired his 
smooth muscular arms, and the way his rear end looked in his worn 
Levis. He turned around and caught her looking. A boyish grin spread 
over his face as he trudged to the cookhouse.
There was a nice cool breeze sighing through the tall pines. 
Tammy watched as Winston made his rounds about the camp. He moved 
around the cookhouse, marking off each corner of the small building. He 
trotted over to the bunkhouse and disappeared behind it. She heard him 
rustling around in a palm frond.
The little cabins were small and peaceful looking. Their green 
walls made them fit right in with the surroundings, as if theyd always 
been there. Tammy had been coming out to the Everglades since she was 
six years old, about ten years ago. Sometimes Tammy wondered how the 
cabins had ever gotten built, remembering the late nights when her father 
and his friends would get to drinking heavily. Theyd sit around the 
campfire and sing bluegrass tunes as loud as they wanted; there wasnt a 
soul to hear them. Tammy would lay there in her sleeping bag hoping 
they would forget about her and it would seem as if they had, until 
someone would inevitably yell, Hey, aint we got no kids to swing over 
the fire? Theyd laugh and then come over to where she was, zip the bag 
up around her head and pick it up from each ench Then theyd move to 
the fire, and she would pray that they werent too daink and that they 
wouldnt let go. Theyd start swinging her wildly; she could feel the 
warmth of the fire every time she went flying past it.
A lot of her dads friends got too old or busy to keep coming out 
to the woods, but their sons- kept coming, and her dad didnt seem to 
mind as long as they kept the place neat and he didnt catch them doing 
any drugs. Tammy had heard her dad talk about Jake before, and she 
didnt think he liked him much. Hed said, That Kelly boy is too big for 
his britches, and that kind of thing.

---------------------------------------------------

Tammy reached up for bags from her father. Well, 1 guess 
someone your age is going to be here this weekend, he said. Dont do 
any drugs.
She turned to see if Jake had heard that. He was just walking up 
to die buggy again. He smiled real big and said, Gee, Ted, I hope you 
dont mind my coming up with the Lomans this weekend. I had off work, 
and since they were coming, I thought I would.
No, always room if youre willing to do some down home eating 
and drinking. Where are the Lomans anyway?"
The Mr. and Mrs. went out for some firewood, and they left the 
two little Lomanses here, Jake gestured over his shoulder to the kids.
They were dizzy and giggling.
Jake, one cried, this bug wont go no more. He wont buzz.
Well, then hes probably dead, Jake called. He turned to 
Tammy and her father, smiling. Can I get you a beer, Ted?
Aw, thats all right. Tammyll do it. Right lion?
She nodded and went into the cookhouse. She reached into the 
giant cooler and pulled out a cold Budweiser. When she came out of the 
cabin, the kids were looking at her suspiciously from where they were 
sitting. She walked over to them and knelt down to look at the june bug. 
The little boy was scratching at a bite on his ankle, and the girl, who was 
smaller, was biting her lip. Tammy picked up the bug. It was dead. Its 
legs were curled in, except for the one attached to the string, which was 
outstretched provocatively.
Is he sick? the little girl asked.
Naw, hes dead. You spun him around too many times. He 
probably had a heart attack. Howd you like it if somebody tied you to 
the back of their bicycle and made you run and run forever?
That night they were sitting by the fire and her father told stories 
about Cypress Wolves. Shed heard diese stories a million times and 
knew that there wasnt any such thing as a Cypress Wolf, but Mrs. Loman 
and her children had never heard them before, so Tammys father couldnt 
resist.
His face was spooky, all lit up orange in the fire light, big circles 
of black around his eyes.
So one night old Carl Perry was sitting up drinking by himself. 
The rest of us was tired and we went to the bunk house to get some 
sleep. I swear I didnt hear a damn thing all night. Slept like a baby.
And the next morning we woke up, and I came out to the fire, and there 
was nothing left of Carl but an old boot and that corn-cob pipe he used to 
smoke. We looked for him for days. Those few nights after he 
disappeared we heard howling all around us, sounded like they was in 
those bushes right over there. It was like they was telling us it was them 
that got Carl.
They dont come around no more though, kids," Mrs. Loman 
said, scared to death herself. Do they, Ted? She looked fiercely at 
Tammys father. He just shrugged his shoulders.
Mama, I gotta pee, said the little girl.
Come with us, Sam, Mrs. Loman pleaded with her husband.
You scared, woman? You go on. We wont let nothing hurt ya.
She gave her husband a dirty look and started with her daughter 
down the potty trail. The men started giggling and Jake went around 
gathering rocks and pine cones. The little boys face lit up; hed been let 
in on the joke. Jake put all his weight into throwing the rock in the 
direction of the trail. Just as always, the rock hit a palm frond and made
the most terrifying racket anyone out in the middle of the dark woods has 
ever heard. Mrs. Loman and her daughter came tearing down the trail, 
screaming.
They were all sitting around the campfire as they had been 
before, but the little Loman boy was grinning and that was all Mrs. Loman 
needed.
That is not funny. Not one bit funny at all.
She picked up her girl and soothed her. She was mad, and went 
right to bed, taking the boy along with her. Mr. Loman felt bad and after 
a bit of chuckling he went in to her.
Soon the Lomans stopped talking inside the bunkhouse and the 
camp got quiet, with just the crackling of the fire. Well, dont stay up too 
late, kids, Tammys father said. He leaned over and kissed her on the 
cheek.
Tammy and Jake sat for a long while, watching the fire. But she 
was getting nervous; it was a little too intimate, just sitting and not saying 
anything to each other. So she spoke up. You work?
He looked at her blankly.
You said you got off work. What do ya do?
Aw, I fix cars for people. Mostly old Mustangs.
Oh, die real pretty ones?
Thats what all women call em.
She swallowed. Did she look like a woman to him?

---------------------------------------------------

How oldre you? she asked.
Seventeen.
Seventeen. Only a year older. He looked so much older than 
that, more like a man than the kids she went to school with.
You go to school?
Naw, he shook his head and smiled. Then he looked over at 
her and just kept looking. His eyes were more hypnotic than the fire.
She felt dreamy and delicious just thinking about kissing him. She'd been 
thinking a lot about kissing lately, but shed never thought it at the same 
time as when she was looking some boy in the eyes.
Youre pretty, Tammy, he said.
Usually she would laugh at something like that, it always seemed 
so fake or silly. But the way he was looking at her, still looking, she 
couldnt do anything but believe it.
He looked away and let out a long, whistling breath. His chin 
was resting on his chest, his arms crossed over his stomach. He was 
watching the fire, and it seemed hed forgotten about her when he said, 
Wanna get high?
She felt the cold of adrenaline pumping through her veins. Did 
she want to get high? Shed never been high. Her friends wouldnt let 
up, always telling her she was such a prude, that shed be the only 
straight virgin to ever graduate from Palmetto High. But if her father ever 
caught her doing drugs, he would kill her, he might even kick her out of 
the house.
Sure, she said, and gasped at her own gall.
He didnt seem to notice how nervous she was. He just got up 
and started walking down behind the cookhouse. She followed him; she 
had to jog to catch up.
They sat down on some stumps left over from when her father 
had cut down trees to clear the area for the shooting range. There were 
riddled grapefruit and tomato juice cans around their feet. She watched 
Jake roll a joint in the moonlight. Her heart was beating, and she had to 
keep licking her lips, they were so dry.
He held it up to her. Pretty good, huh?
She nodded. Jake lit the joint and it glowed bright orange in the 
night. He took the longest drag shed ever seen anyone take. She hoped 
it would go on forever, but then he was handing it over to her. She took 
a breath of the fresh damp air, trying to memorize what it felt like to be 
dnig-free. Then she put the joint to her lips and took a long hit herself. It 
burned her throat, but she didnt cough. She had smoked cigarettes 
before, so she knew how to smoke without coughing.
So she thought. The next drag had her coughing like mad, her 
stomach was cramping up as she tried to muffle it. If her father heard her 
hed be outside looking for them any minute. Jake reached over and 
patted her back. He was smiling at her and she didnt know whether to 
be angiy or glad. It was a strange smile. He leaned over into her face.
He was so close and she already felt herself getting high.
You smoked before, right? he asked.
Yeah, she said, nodding and coughing.
They finished the joint and didnt say anything for a minute or 
two. There was a noise in the bushes and she was overcome with panic. 
Whats that? she whispered.
I think its your dog.
She whistled softly.
Winston came out from under a palm frond. He stood in front of 
[hem and wagged his tail. You seen his trick? Tammy asked.
Jake shook his head.
Do your trick, Winston, she said.
Winstons tail stopped wagging. He looked at them intently for a 
minute, crouched as if he were about to sit down, and then he sprung up 
in the air, about six feet, all four of his paws parallel to the ground. It 
was a fabulous sight, not a leap or a jump, but a springing motion. Jake 
looked at Tammy, amazed, and then started to laugh. She was trying to 
keep him quiet but he just kept laughing, and then she was laughing.
Jake fell sideways off of his stump, clutching his sides and rolling around. 
She crouched down next to him and kept telling him to be quiet before 
he woke everybody up. Winston meandered off, not interested anymore. 
Thats the craziest damn dog I ever seen, Jake said.
Tammy thought she heard something again and looked around in 
the dark. Jake pulled on a big lock of her hair and she looked at him, 
alarmed. "Come here, he said, pulling her toward him.
She was so clumsy. She tried to arrange herself into a sitting 
position but her ankles were so weak that she just fell on top of him. She 
felt his hand on the back of her neck as he pulled her face to his. They 
were kissing. Her first kiss and she was stoned.
He eased his grip on her neck and the kiss ended. He smiled. 
Youre just a little girl, arent you?
She nodded, and hoped he would be easy on her. They kissed 
again and then he said, Come on, little girl, lets take a flower walk.
He rolled her off of him and stood up. She was feeling so weak, 
she didnt want to go anywhere, but she held her hand up to him. As he 
pulled her up she said, We wont find no flowers at night.
But he started walking and she just followed. The walk was long 
but beautiful. It seemed more fresh away from the camp and maybe a bit 
more chilly. They didnt talk much; he pointed out an owl or raccoon 
now and then. She thought of asking where they were going but decided 
it would be a wonderful place, maybe a gator pond or a hummingbirds 
nest. All of the sudden she knew where they were. The trees thinned out 
and they were gazing at the prairie. It was beautiful, the grass was silver 
in the moonlight and moving in waves. They stopped and looked,- 
breathless.
"River of grass, she said.
He smiled and took a deep breath.
Ill race you to the middle, he said, and was off and running.
She chased after him, exhilarated and scared to death. It would be easy 
to lose him, the grass got very tall, and she was pretty short. She was 
right behind him, breathing evenly and keeping him in sight, and as the 
grass got taller, rising above her shoulders, she just kept her eyes on the 
flattened down path he had made and followed that.

---------------------------------------------------

But he wouldnt stop. She was getting tired and the grass was 
already above her head. The blades were sharp, too; she felt them 
scratching at her legs. Then she lost his path and was terrified. She 
called frantically for him but all she heard in return was the echo of her 
own voice. She stood there and yelled for about five minutes. She started 
to think how she might get back, but realized that she hadnt been paying 
attention. She had heard horror stories about people getting lost out in 
the Everglades. They die quickly because the water isnt good to drink 
and there isnt much food to be found.
She remembered her father telling her how hed gotten lost for an 
hour once. Hed cried like a baby. She tried to picture her father crying, 
just sitting on the ground with tears streaking down his wind-burned face. 
Then Tammy was crying. Loud, uncontrollable sobs that made her feel 
like her insides were collapsing.
She heard something pushing through the grass toward her. She 
knew it was probably Jake but it was terrible not knowing for sure. He 
finally pushed through the blades and was standing in front of her.
You goddamnyou piece ofyou suck, Jake!" She slapped at 
his chest as hard as she could. She had never wanted to hurt anyone so 
badly before.
Im sorry, he was smiling, I didnt know Id lost ya. I thought 
you were right behind me.
Didnt ya hear me yelling?
Sure, but not until after I stopped running and then I was way 
ahead of ya.
Well, why didnt ya yell back? To tell me you were coming.
He shrugged.
Didnt you trust me, Tammy? Didnt you know Id be back?
She didnt know what to say to that. She felt ashamed of herself 
for showing how frightened she was. She was wiping her eyes when he 
took her in his arms.
I didnt mean to scare ya, he said. She didnt want to be hugged 
by him but he was the only one there and she needed to be hugged. He 
brushed her hair away from her face and started kissing her again. Then 
he slipped his arm around her and they were walking together. They 
came to an area where the grass was matted down.
This is where an animal sleeps, he said.
I know, she spat at him. My dad probably told ya that.
He sat on the ground and pulled her down next to him. Dont 
be mad, Tammy. I really like you. Im sorry.
You are not, she pouted.
Yeah. I am, he reassured her.
She pushed a stick around in the dirt and thought about what she 
should do about Jake. She was still angry and frightened, but if she kept 
on making a big deal about this hed think she was a real baby. Shed
been coming out here longer than he had. She shouldnt have let him see 
her so scared.
So when he leaned over to kiss her, she let him. When he pulled 
at her T-shirt, she let him take it off. She felt funny sitting there in the 
middle of the prairie without a top on, but who was going to see them? 
Soon he was peeling off the rest of her clothes. She was scared to death, 
but shed already acted like a sap. She wanted to prove that she could 
handle something. Just go with it, she told herself. He eased her onto 
her back, and the grass felt soft, probably because an animal had been 
using it for awhile. She breathed in the air and stared at the Milky Way 
over his shoulder as he moved in between her legs and unzipped his 
jeans. She could make out the Litde Dipper, Orions belt, the Seven 
Sisters and Oh Geez that Hurts the Big Dipper and back to Orion because 
she couldnt remember what else to look for. She traced Orions 
shoulders and his little pin head, followed his sword and long legs. Jakes 
breathing was getting heavier and he was saying oh, God almighty over 
and over again. She thought he should be finished by now, but she really 
wasnt sure how long this was supposed to last. She hadnt realized how 
painful it would be either. She wished Jake would say something to her, 
but he just groaned.
Jake, she said finally.
What? He looked annoyed, like she was bothering him.
Are you enjoying this?
Arent you?
Yeah, J just didnt know it would take so long.
Yeah, it always takes a long time when Im high.
He turned his head away from her and continued. Tammy 
wondered if it might not be better if she were just in her bunk back at 
camp, snuggling under a heavy Army blanket, straight and a virgin.
Jake, please stop. It hurts. I cant stand it anymore. Please dont 
do this anymore, she begged.
Shhh, he was saying, just relax. Im almost finished.
She tried to pretend that he wasnt there at all, and that she was 
alone in bed, but it was hard to ignore the pain.
Finally, Jake groaned long and loud and then rolled off of her.
She sat up and began pulling on her clothes. Are ya done? she asked.
Yeah, Im done, he said. He stood up and zipped his jeans and 
just started walking away.
She didnt have all her clothes on yet. She tried to hold him up 
by saying, Hey, what if Im pregnant?
Youre not, he said and kept walking.

---------------------------------------------------

She had trouble keeping up. He was about ten feet ahead of her 
the entire walk home. After they had cleared the prairie he walked 
confidently over stumps and rocks that Tammy ended up tripping over. 
She felt humiliated. This was more her place than his. And yet, he looked 
better out here, like he belonged here. She hated him for a minute. He 
was making her feel like a guest in a place she considered a home.
They reached the path that led straight into camp and Jake sped 
up. She let him go ahead without protesting, because she knew where 
she was and wasnt frightened on the outskirts of camp. She came to the 
clearing and saw that there was nothing left of the fire but glowing coals. 
Winston walked up to her, wagging his tail and whining. She told him to 
go back to sleep.
She moved quietly into the bunkhouse and climbed into bed.
She rolled over on her side and looked out the screen window at the 
smoke from the fire. She thought about crying but then decided that it 
wouldn't do her any good. The smoke drifted up and then settled. It 
hung in the air all around the camp, as if they were all sleeping in a 
cloud.
Tammy was the first one up the next morning. There was an 
obnoxious crow that came screaming through the camp every morning at 
about seven. While most people slept through him, Tammy could never 
get back to sleep after hed been there.
She went to the cookhouse and washed up at the pump, put the 
coffee on and went outside to build the fire. When she was finished she 
sat down in a lawn chair and Winston came over to her. He stretched 
and settled down by her feet.
Jake came out of the bunkhouse and stretched dramatically. He 
sauntered up to her chair and stood next to her for a minute.
Come on, lets go get high before everybody wakes up, he said. 
Naw, I dont much feel like it.
Sure ya do. Come on, girl.
She shot Jake a look, but he just smiled at her. Winston, do your 
trick," she said. Winston got up, looked at her in that funny way he 
always did when he did his trick, and then sprung up in the air.
Jake chuckled. Come on, Tammy, well bring your dog.
Jake, my dadll be up in a while. It isnt a good idea.
Jesus, you scared of your old man? Well get back before they 
wake up. Keep me company.
She looked up at him and was frustrated because his expression 
was so disarming, so friendly, and yet she felt like if she didnt do what he 
wanted, something bad would happen.
Come on, Jake said, and yanked her out of her chair. She 
whistled for Winston and he followed. They were walking down the 
firing range again. They sat down on the same two stumps as the night 
before.
So, Jake said, pulling a bag of weed from out of his back pocket 
and rolling a joint, hows it feel to be deflowered?
Im sore.
Yeah, I always take a long time when I'm high.
Yeah, you told me. She sat brooding for a minute, wondering if 
she should tell him what she really thought. Somehow she got up the 
neive. You shouldnt have done any of that, Jake. You got me high and 
then you scared me to death and then you forced yourself on me. That 
wasnt fair.
I didn't force myself on you, Tammy.
Whatever.
Just never had a woman say no to me, virgin or not, that's all. 
How many girls you been with, Jake? Youre only seventeen 
years old.
Aw, at least fifty, I guess.
She felt sick. How stupid could she be, to sleep with such a 
sleaze? She felt like she would cry right there.
Aw, I'm only kidding, Tammy. I only been with three girls in my 
whole life. And they were all nice girls.
"I was the third? Tammy asked.
Yeah, and the best.
Her whole body relaxed. She was so relieved. He held the 
burning joint up to her lips and she took a long drag. She felt it hit her 
almost right away.
But, she said, letting go of the smoke, I think I want to lay off 
of sex for awhile.
Jake nodded and held the joint up to her lips again. She inhaled 
and wondered why she was doing this. She had just said that she didnt 
want to.
They talked for awhile about school. Jake had quit the year 
before because he was making good money restoring Mustangs. He 
asked if she liked school and even though she didnt mind it much, she 
said she hated it, and couldn't wait to get out. Jake showed her scars 
from when he'd gotten into fights at school. He had one long crooked 
one all the way up his side. He said a pretty tough Cuban guy named 
Jose had sliced him up in a gang fight. He had several smaller stab 
wounds on his arms and legs. He seemed proud of them, and she 
thought they were impressive, too.
He moistened his fingers, closed them around the joint and then 
put it in his back pocket. Tammy felt pretty stoned.
So, lets take a flower walk, Jake said.
No, I know what you mean by a flower walk. My dadll be 
looking for us if we go off. Hell be up in a minute. Tammy hoped he 
wouldn't press the issue. She didn't need to be playing his games now. 
Well, if we go now, well be back before they wake up. Come
on.
No Jake. I just said I wanted to lay off sex for awhile.
"Who said anything about sex, Tammy? Cant 1 just walk with ya? 
Do your trick, Winston," she said. The dog got up from his place 
at her feet, crouched and sprung up obediently.
Would you lay off the clog?
I'll bet you cant get him to do it, she said.
Jake got up and tugged her arm and they were walking again, 
through the deeper brush. Winston followed them.
They came to a little clearing with a small puddle and a spot of 
soft ground covered with pine needles. Jake sat down and pulled Tammy 
down next to him. He tried to kiss her.
Try and get Winston to do his trick, she insisted.
Do your trick, Winston, Jake said. He seemed exasperated. 
Winston just kept nosing around in the pine needles.
See? He won't do it for anybody but me, Tammy cried.
Yeah, well, you won't do it for anybody but me, said Jake. He 
pulled her chin around to plant a sloppy kiss on her mouth.
Stop it, Jake.
"Tammy, I want you. Why does that bother you? You're so
pretty.

---------------------------------------------------

She was confused. She'd never heard a boy say those things to 
her. She liked Jake but she figured he just wanted sex anyway, and she 
knew that she couldn't bear that again.
You're so beautiful. I need you. He was kissing her shoulders, 
moving up to her neck. She was getting angry.
Please stop, Jake. 1 cant do that again.
"You just have to take it easy, Tammy. Go with it. He put his 
hands on her shoulders, tiying to force her down. She scooted away from 
him.
"Winston," she called. The dog looked up from the puddle where 
he had been about to take a drink. Do your trick. Her voice sounded 
harsh.
Dammit, come here. Ya lost your virginity. Its no big deal 
now. Jake was pulling on her waist while Winston sprung a full six feet 
up. One of his better jumps.
"Do your trick," she yelled, just as the hounds paws hit the earth. 
He jumped again. Do your trick!
Winston jumped again and fell back into his crouching position. 
His eyes were sad.
Leave him alone, Tammy.
Do your trick.
The dog jumped, not as high or as impressive; his back feet were 
dragging in the air. He came down and whined. Tammy could feel Jake 
looking at her funny.
Do your trick, Winston.
Winston jumped again, but when he came down his foot slipped 
in the mud and he fell. He was a big dog, the position looked painfully 
awkward. He got up slowly. He was whining loudly now.
"Tammy, whats wrong with you? Thats an old dog.
She looked at Jake. His face was urgent. Then he smiled and 
said, "Youre crazy. His face loomed closer and she thought she would 
scream. If she kissed him willingly, theyd be having sex in no time. She 
wanted to kiss him, but she didnt want to have sex. She hated herself for 
even wanting to kiss him. She looked away from Jake at her dog, 
struggling to get up. She felt Jake looking at her. His presence was so 
overwhelming. She didnt have any time to think. He reached for'her 
chin, tried to pull it around.
Do your trick," she yelled.
Winston tried, but his leg was hurting. He got into the position 
but he was keeping all his weight balanced on the three good legs. He 
leapt, but it was a sideways leap. He jerked in the air, came down too 
hard on the bad foot, and yelped loudly. The dog collapsed onto his side. 
Tammy watched his body heaving for a minute and then jumped up.
She ran through the bushes back to the camp and stood looking 
at the back of the cookhouse. She could hear pots and pans from inside, 
and sleepy voices that hadnt had any coffee to perk them up yet.
She walked casually around to the campfire and sat down. The 
two little Loman kids were holding a june bug down on the ground by 
one foot, tiying to tie a string around it.
Tammy, you tie this for us?"
They looked at her hopefully.
No. No, I won't.
Tammys dad came out by the fire and sat next to her. He asked 
where shed been and she told him she was on a flower hunt but hadnt 
found any flowers. He looked at her sort of disappointed and she 
wondered if hed noticed that she and Jake had wandered off the night 
before.
"So, wheres Jake?
I dont know, dad.
Mmm. Well, I better go help Mrs. Loman with the Spam and 
onions. You like Spam and onions, right?
She nodded.
Right then Jake came around the cookhouse. He was holding 
Winston. He set the poor dog next to the fire. Winston looked up at 
Tammy and he actually wagged his tail.
Well, Ted, I believe this ole hound broke his leg, Jake said to 
Tammys father. Probably got stuck in a snake hole just the right way. Or 
wrong way I guess.
Tammys dad knelt next to Winston. He cussed under his breath. 
He looked up at Tammy and said, It might just be sprained or something. 
We might be able to fix it.
She nodded and looked away. It was too hard to talk.
Later that morning Tammy was lying in the bunkhouse, staring at 
die ceiling, and she heard Jake asking the Lomans if he could borrow 
their ATV. He said he was going on a joy ride. She heard him starting it 
up and just before he took off down the trail she sat up and looked out 
the screen window at him. She only got a glimpse of his blue work shirt. 
The sound of the cycle stayed with the camp for about another three 
minutes and then it was gone.
Soon it was afternoon and Mr. Loman was walking around cussing 
and yelling about that bastard Kelly boy. Tammys father went out on the 
buggy looking for him. Tammy sat and watched the kids spin june bugs.
Her dad got home in time for steaks. He said he had gone all the 
way to the road and the ATV was parked at Monroe Stadon. He said he 
figured that Jake had hitched a ride home. Guess we just werent 
excidng enough.
They sat at the table in the cookhouse and the grown-ups talked 
about die youth today.
Tammy figured Jake left because he just thought she was plain 
crazy after what she did to her own dog. Winston didnt seem to mind 
lying around for the rest of the weekend. He ate a lot and Tammy 
bandaged up his foot.
You dont think Jake hurt Winston do ya? Running him too hard 
or something? her father asked her. He looked at her seriously. Jake 
can be a rowdy sort, and Winstons a pretty old dog."
I dont know, Dad. I don't think Jake would hurt Winston, 
though, Tammy said.
Poor dog. Even if his leg heals I bet hell never jump that way 
again. That was something to see.

---------------------------------------------------

And the 91/2 Weeks Poster Came 
Down Around Us
as we were sliding down the wall, my legs
wrapped around you, giddy as we heard
the tearing paper, the pins
pulling out of the wall. You asked
me if I cared, I said no,
you pulled it
all the way
down
And I thought for a second of how I have lived it,
I've slept with eyes looking down on me 
in dark approval, Ive tended to the bite marks 
on my shoulders, the scratches on my hips 
I thought would scar. I've worn the black and white 
because I couldnt see all the shades of gray. In the middle 
of the night I have rolled over, put my face 
to the pillow, licked my bitten lips and tasted sacrifice 
in my bitter blood.
And I laid there with you, watching 
all of these fantastic myths falling down, 
knowing I'd wake up in the morning, 
my skin still a soft ivory white, 
my past as it should be, 
folded under my feet.
Elizabeth Cronise

---------------------------------------------------

taui
fi9riw
UOYMguorlt
8BW ti

---------------------------------------------------

LIVLI
Volume 85, issue 4The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania24 September 139G 1
Freshmen avoid stress any way they can
Anchors clank, 
people laugh, 
charity wins
By SUZANNE BARTLETT
Tartan Staffwriter
SPLAT!!
People cheered as whipped cream flew 
everywhere. This is fun! the student 
said, and then moved out of the way to 
let another student have a try.
Fun was the key word Saturday as 
students gathered at Skibo, throwing 
pies at each other, scarfing down bowls 
of Jello, getting pictures taken by a 
photographer, and eating free popcorn.
Delta Gamma held the first Anchor 
Clanker Week this week. The Clanker 
started Monday with a kick-off barbecue 
and ended Saturday with the Anything 
Goes contests.
The event consisted of 28 teams of five 
who participated in a series of contests 
during the week, including the Beautiful 
Eyes contest held Wednesday through 
Saturday, the Hungry Mate, Anchor 
Relay, Sailor Up, and Hannah Bullseye contests, all held Saturday.
The fee for the event was $25 per team 
and proceeds benefit Big Brothers and 
Big Sisters, and The Pittsburgh Foun
dation for the Blind.
Various students put together teams, 
including fraternities, ROTC, and groups 
of friends. Big Brothers and Big Sisters 
also had a team consisting of three Bigs 
and three Littles. We had a great time! 
said CMU student Randy Wilson and 
his match Bryan Helwich.
Each team received matching Anchor 
Clanker tee-shirts and a coach. The 
coach was a DG who helped her team the 
day of the events. This is the first year 
DGs have done this at Carnegie Mellon. 
It seems to be working out well, said 
coach Erica Weiner earlier this week.
In the Beautiful Eyes contest, repre
sentatives from each team had pictures 
of their eyes put up in front of Doherty 
and the students could vote on their 
favorite by putting money in that teams 
cup. The winning team had points added 
to their final score.
The Hungry Mate, or jello-eating 
contest, was amusing to watch. After 
inhaling four bowls of red jello, sopho
more Molly Counihan gave the expected 
response, I feel nauseated, and wobbled 
off with her encouraging teammates.
In the Sailor Up competition, a blindPhotographer 
CFA sophomore Chris Fria races to put 
on his pants while blindfolded.
folded team member tried to get dressed, 
after being turned around in circles. 
The crowd laughed as the Navy ROTC 
team yelled, About face! Forward, 
march! at their teammate, in an at
tempt to guide him in the right direction.
The coordinated teams did well in the 
Anchor Relay which required that the 
student do the crab-walk and pass an 
anchor to the next person with their 
mouth. One girl told her teammate, 
Try not to slobber on the stick. The 
coaches had rubbing alcohol on the scene 
for that very reason.
Hannah Bulls-eye was by far the 
most popular contest with the partici
pants, but not with the DG-s who served 
as targets. When asked what it was like 
to have a pie thrown in her face, DG 
Kris Pasqualin replied, It was sticky. I 
just kept my eyes shut the whole time. 
But it was for a good cause. By the end 
of the day, many of the participants 
who stayed for the awards ceremony 
were covered with whipped cream.
The entire event was run by DG Kim 
Kalista. According to Kalista, the 
Clanker was a take-off from a Na
tional Delta Gamma event called An
chor Splash, which involved a pool. 
Carnegie Mellon could not accommoPlease see ANCHOR CLANKER, page L3
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Staffwriter
As the novelty of college life 
begins to wear off and first 
exams are returned with less 
than savory grades, something 
strange seems to be happening 
to the freshmen. Once-hyper 
patrons of frat parties and 
midnight movies can now be 
seen pulling their hair out at 2 
am in Wean 5419.
The delightfully fresh new 
faces who were once so im
pressed by their ability to do 
laundry, with or without turn
ing everything pink, now shuffle 
through life muttering the first 
one times the derivative of the 
second one plus the second one 
times the derivative of the first 
one and using their fingers to 
count how many steps are left 
in the decision-making process.
The jolly, happy-go-lucky 
freshman now seems .to be an 
endangered species. The cul
prit? You guessed it  stress.
Although freshmen said that 
they had been warned, they 
never thought it could happen 
to them  theyd always been 
tops in high school and fully 
e*pected to be the same here. 
fiut the brand of stress we have 
here at CMU is indiscriminate 
to choosing its victims. It 
doesnt care if you got straight
Stress? Theres no stress. I just 
make sure I drink lots of coffee and 
Jolt...and then Im so keyed up that 
Im bouncing off the walls and Im 
worried about cracking my skull on a 
light fixture rather than the Calculus 
test on Monday. 
 Mark Stemm, Freshman MCS
fives on your AP exams or if you 
graduated first in your class. It 
seems that no one is safe.
The freshmen interviewed 
expressed quite different 
attitudes toward the existence 
and effects of stress. Mark 
Stemm, an MCS freshman, 
said, Stress? Theres no stress. 
I just make sure I drink lots of 
coffee and Jolt and eat lots of 
Skittles and chocolate and then 
Im so keyed up that Im bounc
ing off the walls and Im wor
ried about cracking my skull on 
a light fixture rather than the 
Calculus test on Monday.
Others take a slightly more 
Zen approach to stress. Its 
only stressful if you make it 
that way, says MCS freshman 
Alan Ferrency.
Kevin Bronke, a freshman in 
CIT said, I certainly hope
theres stress. Thats what Im 
paying for.
Dawn Nebelkopf, a freshman 
in H&SS, told The Tartan, I 
really dont want to say any
thing about stress in H&SS 
because all of the CIT people 
will laugh at me.
CFA freshman Aimee Beal 
says, For me, stress is mostly 
an internal thing. Im pushing 
myself to be better, but Im not 
stressed about my classes. Im 
sure it will be worse when it 
gets closer to performances. 
Since no study of stress would 
be complete without quoting one 
of its primary targets, architec
ture student Jody Sherman has 
the following to say about 
stress: Stress is cool. Its what 
keeps you going.
Most freshmen seem to be 
coping at least marginally well
Jason Irwin/Tartan Photographer 
Delta Gamma sister Kim Loughran, a sophomore in H&SS, waits for the next pie to be thrown at her.
Alex Patho Jr./Tartan Photographer 
Junior August Manfredo prepares himself to do battle 
with jello.
Some even watch Return of the 
Jedi two or three times before 
the midnight show with the 
express intent of working out 
plans of obnoxious but witty 
things to say during the course 
of the movie (a quick example ... 
Darth Vader to Emperor: What
CIT sophomore Rachanee Royer and CFA sophomore Eileen Canepari, pass 
the anchor in the Anchor Relay contest for the KKG team.
with stress, although the 
manners in which they do it 
range from the only slightly 
ridiculous to the sublime.
Some relieve stress through 
IM sports or other activities like 
ballroom dancing. Others go out 
and act really stupid at parties.
is thy bidding, my master? 
Audience members: Bend 
over!).
But no matter what they 
decide to do, freshmen are 
sometimes silly, often clever, 
and always creative in relieving 
stress.
t

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 1990
Pittsburgh rises from its smoky depths
Smith ends his dramatic photographic-essay wfth 
these two photos. The mansion (left) existed on 
Penn Avenue around 1905. Today Jake's Bar (above) 
is located on this site.
 Photos courtesy of Arthur G. Smith 
By DAN HOLLAND
Tartan Staffwriter
Remember when Pittsburgh was a smoky, 
littered, polluted industrial wasteland of endless 
steel mills, foundries and specialty manufacturing?
dont either. But Arthur G. Smiths book, Pitts\ burgh, Then and Now, does not forget this citys 
; past.
 Then and Now is a remarkable photo essay in 
; which sets of pictures compare landmarks as they 
I were between the late nineteenth century and the 
1950s with the way they are now. It truly shows 
' how the city has changed, from the minute details of 
the North Side to the Golden Triangle. In fact, the 
subjects of many photos have changed so drastically 
I through the years that it is amazing that Smith, a 
history professor at Chatham College, managed to 
tfmd the same location. Each photograph reflects the 
I care taken and the years of research done by the 
^photographer  every angle is right, every shadow 
is perfect.
While Smith shows how Pittsburgh has 
changed, he also points out its constants. His theme 
;throughout the book is continuity and change,
J; words which reflect the two qualities inherent in 
any city. What distinguishes Pittsburgh from other 
cities is its great acceptance of change coupled with 
!its preservation of tradition. Despite Pittsburghs 
apparent lack of concern for its history, Smiths 
?book illustrates how the city has indeed managed to 
preserve many of its legacies.
He shows the aspects of Pittsburgh which have 
; changed the most: the bridges, the river banks, and 
; downtown. The bridges especially have changed 
; dramatically, mainly due to better architectural 
; styles and construction methods, although the 
Smithfield Street Bridge has managed to survive 
' since 1882 and remains the citys oldest span.
Smith highlights one of Pittsburghs clearly 
;more dramatic changes within the downtown area. 
The new skyline of Pittsburgh is adorned by the 
towering USX building (1971), One Oxford Center 
(1983), and the Pittsburgh Plate Glass (PPG) 
building (1984), the citys Gothic skyscraper of 
! mirrored plate glass. These buildings, part of 
Pittsburghs renaissance movements, have become
symbolic of an enormously changed city.
Smith shows the true pride of Pittsburgh in 
Point State Park. Prior to the 1940s, the Point was 
dominated by a terminal for the Pennsylvania 
Railroad and exhibit halls for industrial products. 
Under the guidance of then-Mayor David Lawrence, 
the effort to rejuvenate the meeting place of two 
rivers began in the early 50s and became the 
centerpiece of Renaissance One, and possibly a hint 
of a new city for the future.
Pittsburghs changed river banks are remark
ably revealed by Smiths keen eye for the citys 
unique geography. From a point on the 
Monongahela River side, the old Man Warf of 1929 
is shown with rows of parked cars. Even Smiths 
photo of 1986 is outdated. Now it is seldom if any 
car ventures down to the vacant lot.
To describe former inclines, he uses the citys 
rocky embankments and cliffs as a guide to uncover 
a startling transformation. He explains how the 
citys once great claim to twenty inclines has 
dwindled to two. In one photo, Smith uses an old 
photo to reveal a former incline on the Allegheny 
River side where there is presently no trace of such 
a structure.
The images of continuity are also striking. Many 
streets and street comers have somehow remained 
unchanged, as if Smiths photos have no date. There 
are a few new paved roads and some new cars, but 
for the most part, the inner city communities, such 
as the South Side, have retained their original 
character.
Smith brings out nostalgic sentiments of Pitts
burgh by exposing its old grandeur and cultural 
legacies. Some of the transitions that have occurred 
are, in one sense,, saddening. In another sense, 
though, this city is no longer hell with the lid taken 
off.
In the end, Smiths book leaves a chilling sense 
of the gravest of all transformations: the lost lega
cies of mansions. He illuminates the seemingly 
merciless destruction of eloquently designed homes 
of millionaires  people who made the city which 
made them  only to be replaced by a condominium 
or a bar. Today these new buildings can be accepted 
as a constant of change. Pittsburgh, Then and Now 
enlightens me to a time when the city thrived on
careful craftsmanship, unique architecture, and a 
genuine sense of design.
With the current demolition of steel mills as the 
greatest symbol of change, Smith shows the legacy 
that this city has forged for itself along while 
showing that it is time to move on. He leaves the 
reader with one last sobering thought, How sad to 
be judged obsolete/ When once the pride of the 
elite.
Pittsburgh, Then and Now, published by the 
University of Pittsburgh Press, is available at the 
CMU bookstore for $35.
These two photos (above: 1906, below: 1987) are of the Fort Pitt Foundry from Union Station. The 
greatest changes over the 80 years can be seen near the mills.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 1990
Charity wins
ANCHOR CLANKER, from page U
date this kind of event for various reasons. As 
a result, for the last two years, Delta Gamma 
has been working on this similar program 
instead.
It takes that long to do the paperwork. We 
actually started planning and getting spon
sors last semester, Kalista said. Aside from 
the tee-shirts, the $25 fee also includes a five 
page program about The Anchor Clanker, 
Big Brothers and Big Sisters, and The Blind 
Foundation.
'We are a very philanthropic sorority and 
we do a lot of work with the blind, said 
Kalista. Also, this was good for Big Brothers 
and Big Sisters because it increased the 
awareness of CMUs campus program.
Phillip D Antonio, the new case worker for 
CMUs Big Brothers and Big Sisters chapter, 
was at the awards ceremony Saturday after
noon, handing out free Big Brothers teeshirts.
I am very pleased, Kalista said after the 
event. I think it went really well for the first 
year. If it is successful, I would like to see the 
Clanker become an annual event.
Apparently, many of the teams would like 
the same. John Murphy, a member of Delta 
Upsilons team, said, We had a great time, 
and for a good cause, too.
Incidentally, DU won second place (Sub
way gift certificates) in the all around compe
tition, and The Beautiful Eyes Contest win
ner was on the DU team. Ate am named True 
Blue won first place (three Dominos pizzas) 
and third place went to NROTC, each of 
whom received a twelve pack of Coke. Also, 
many teams won raffle prizes, such as dinner 
for two at Bagel Nosh and gift certificates to 
the 0.
CIT freshman Nick Alexander and H&SS freshman Christie,Moore rehearse Scotch an Sodas next play, Don't Let The Bedbugs Bite. Written by H&SS junior Mick 
Sutter, the play looks at one man's nightmares. The play will be performed this Sunday night in the Whenett Room at 7 and 8:30 pm; admission Is free.
A Persons Opinion
Of the hundreds of courses 
offered at Carnegie Mellon, few, 
if any, are designed specifically 
by students. If there is one great 
equalizer for Carnegie Mellon 
students, its a desire to create 
the ideal course.
Maybe it would be one with no 
homework and no attendance, 
or maybe a 12-unit course on 
spelling the word it.
Or how about a class that pays 
back some of that 20 Grand you 
shell out every year... the Dis
cover Card of classes?
The Tartan, in its ongoing 
quest for truth, justice, and the
betterment of Carnegie Mellon I wish that they had some sort 
University, ventured to ask stu- of environmental awareness class 
dents this week, If you could  like how different materials 
design any class for Carnegie affect the environment, how to 
Mellon students, what would recycle, etc. 
that class be?
Sacha Backes 
Freshman, MCS
Katie Glicksberg 
Junior, CFA
I would like an experimental 
photography/film class.
David Foster 
Freshman, CIT
Terrence Ryan 
Freshman, CFA
Vivek Gupta/Tartan Photographer
Stan Musial 
Senior, H&SS
I would design something on Id want a three hour studio ^ dass would be a 
film appreciation some sort of class on time-management called unit> four.semester sequence, 
cinematography class. How to get more sleep during the once.a-week, afternoon class''
week- that has nothing to do with
feminism, Marxism, racism, or 
socialism.
Graduating Engineers / Technical Majors
Want a Real Job?
Start your search at theCorporate Exposition
Wednesday, September 26 
10:00 am to 4:00 pm 
University of Pittsburgh William Pitt Union Assembly Room
(Orange brick building across the street from the Cathedral of Learning)
Over 30 companies will be in attendance looking for graduating seniors to discuss career 
opportunities as well as co-op opportunities and summer internships for sophomores 
and juniors. Dont start the job search without attending this informative event!
Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh Engineering Student Council
A Unique Consulting Firm
Hewitt Associates
is visiting Carnegie Mellon
Hewitt Associates is an international firm of consultants and 
actuaries specializing in the design, financing, communication, 
and administration of employee benefit and compensation 
programs. We are included in the publications The 100 Best 
Companies to Work for in America and The Best Companies 
for Women.
We are interested in students with the following majors:
Economics 
Applied Mathematics 
or other 
Quantitative Majors
We look for people-who are adaptable, creative, analytical, and 
intelligent; people who work well together. Our challenge is to 
identity and develop those people who can respond to the 
opportunities of today and tomorrow.
Hewitt Associates
Rowayton, CT  Boston, MA  Bed minster. NJ 
Lincolnshire. IL  Santa Ana. CA  W&lnut Creek. CA 
Atlanta GA  Las Colinas, TX  The Woodlands. TX
PROMINENCE
In 1890, Price Waterhouse opened its first U.S. office. 
Already recognized overseas for innovative account
ing and business services?our goal was to introduce 
these new strategies to the American market. The 
response was phenomenal. Before long, we were one 
of the nations most respected and fastest-growing 
firms. Today, we face a new century  not only as a 
respected worldwide public accounting firm, but also 
as a premier consulting firm offering the full range of 
quality technical and business services.
The Office of Government Services (OGS) in 
Washington, D.C. is a vital part of our nationwide 
information systems consulting practice. Our clients 
include Federal, state, and local civilian government 
agencies, as well as select private sector clients. Our 
engagements typically involve the development of 
financial, human resource, and manufacturing man
agement information systems and information sys
tems auditing. While the majority of our staff 
members are based in the Washington, D.C. area, our 
engagements are nationwide; subsequently, all staff 
must be willing to travel. Wherever and whatever 
your initial assignment may be, be assured you will 
be designing and implementing systems using such 
powerful tools and technologies as:
 DB2, Oracle, UNIX or C
 Structured Methodologies
 CASE tools
If a strong academic record in a technical major (e.g., 
MIS, Systems Engineering, etc.), consultant-level 
communication skills, and career plans in a 
dynamic information systems consulting environ 
ment are part of your credentials, your future may 
well be with Price Waterhouse as we begin our next 
100 years.
WspuyvaMm ?stegDhenm 
ErDevPeg d
To be considered for an interview with Price Water
houses Office of Government Services, drop your 
resume at the Career Center by September 28,1990.
Price Waterhouse
Office of Government Services
Ms. Caryn Perrelli
Recruiting Manager
1801 K Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20006
An Equal Opportunity Employer. U.S. citizenship may 
be required for some positions.
Price Waterhouse
,s48eI2S,8s
SHARING
November 1st 
6:30 p.m.
Skibo Room 12
ONCAMPUSINTERVIEWS
November 2nd
Register by 
submitting your 
resume to the 
Placement Office.

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 1990
Finding the forgotten scoop of Americana at Dairy Queen
Dont look now, but its that 
eerie time of year when play comes 
to a screeching halt and the 
massive gears of the CMU work 
machine begin to grind. With each 
passing day there are fewer and 
fewer students happily frolicking 
on the cut. The come join our 
group barbecues, known for 
reeling in those especially car
nivorous freshmen with the scent 
of harred meat have, upon serv
ing their solicitous purposes, 
vanished until the coming of the 
new crop next fall. Even those 
gleaming faces, so eager to say 
hello during the last few days of 
August, have soured like old milk 
into the all too familiar scowls of 
September.
All right, so people have a hell 
of a lot of work to do around here 
and waving good-bye to the first 
few laid-back weeks of class is 
never easy. But its not as if there 
isnt a Dairy Queen right up the 
road! I visited Her Majesty of SoftServe on Thursday and learned 
that it is absolutely impossible to
WHATEVER HAPPENED TO 
PLATINUM BLONDES?
by Andrew Cosentino
think about work while eating 
soft ice cream with little kids, old 
men, and pigeons.
On the way to DQ, located on 
Center Avenue (just east of 
Morewood), I began to consider 
what a fine establishment it has 
been over the years. Who could 
forget those first trips to Dedry 
Queen, when after inhaling a 
sizable dipped cone and going 
through a few reams of napkins 
(which came at a steady rate from 
Mom, the napkin junkie), there 
would still be ice cream all over 
your t-shirt, and camper shorts, 
and chin, and coming out of your 
nose, and on the very tips of your
sneakers.
Upon arrival, I was overjoyed 
to see that in a world where its 
getting harder and harder to find 
a Warner Brothers cartoon on 
Saturday morning television, 
Dairy Queen continues to stand 
tall as a classic piece of Ameri
cana. A person can still get a cone 
with some pocket change, the 
place is open from 11 am to 11 pm, 
including holidays and Sundays, 
and the customer gets all the ad
vantages of fine dining without 
the wait!
Craving for something with a 
little more substance than ice 
cream? No problem. Dairy Queen 
has an outstandingly meaty 
lineup of entrees, all for under 
$1.39, a price that cant be touched 
by competitors in the restaurant 
business. The DQ Hounder, for 
starters, is a quarter pound (yes, 
you heard right) of succulent pork 
and beef hot dog slapped on a 
fiber-filled bun with your choice 
of topping. The Barbecue Sand
wich, taking a close second, drips
... "Polish Sausage,  a virtual log of 
meat...
with so much Old West flavor, 
that after eating it youll be 
peering into the back of the tiny 
store in search of a cow turning 
slowly on a spit. Finally, the no
torious Polish Sausage, a 
virtual log of meat, is a hefty 
enough portion to make taut the 
most abyss-like of bellies.
Behind the window on this 
particular day was a young entre
preneur named Mike who takes 
pride in his job. Mike agrees 
wholeheartedly that Dairy Queen 
is one of the few American insti
tutions left which still takes the 
time to care about quality and the 
importance of catering to the cus
tomer. You make everything 
fresh here, its not like its on an 
assembly lineatruism. I didnt 
know it at that moment, but I was 
talking to a man who was in the 
process of living out one of the
most moving stories that could 
ever come about as a result of a 
trip to Dairy Queen.
Upon telling Mike that I go to 
CMU, he informed me that he is 
enrolled at Point Park College 
but has a girlfriend at CMU. 
Where did Mike meet his sweet
heart? Yes, Dairy Queen. But it 
gets better. You see, Mike met his 
girlfriend at a Dairy Queen about
15 miles away from the one at 
which he currently works, but he 
transferred to Center Avenue to 
be closer to his beloved. But wait, 
it gets better. Just as Mike is 
wrapping up his story, I ask him 
if I could speak with the woman 
working in the back of the store, 
and as if I hadnt heard enough 
Dairy Queen happy endings for 
one day, Mike says, Sure, thats 
my Mom! Its a family affair.
Mikes mom Laurel, a bubbling
woman with a fixed smile, told me 
all about how she used to bring 
Mike to Dairy Queen when he 
was a kid after baseball games. 
By now I was on the verge of tears 
and had to change the topic be
fore I broke down. I asked Laurel 
if she thought the Japanese, with') 
all their technology, could ever! 
produce a restaurant which sur
passes the fine tradition of Dairy 
Queen. Laurel, without hesita
tion, replied They cant compare 
to this. An answer plain and 
simple, but one which tugs at the 
heartstrings of all Americans.
Before my departure I thanked 
Mike and Laurel for their time 
and on the way back to campus 
there was no doubt in my mind as 
to why Dairy Queen has been 
such a long-lasting American tra
dition. I guess Mike summed it up 
best when he said, just look at 
our slogan, were treating you 
right!
Andrew Cosentino is a sopho
more in H&SS.
Atlanta gets fired up for the 1996 Summer Olympics
I hope the committees which 
chose Atlanta for the Olympics 
also meant to choose its summer 
thunderstorms or else the guy 
who runs and carries the Olympic 
torch will be very surprised when 
he finds it fizzling out three miles 
before he hits Atlanta.
But then, obviously the com
mittees thought that Atlanta 
provided the best cultural and 
geographic environment for the 
1996 summer games.
Not that I mean to criticize their 
choice, but I cant really help it. 
For one thing, the physical and 
cultural geographies will be a bit 
of a shock to anybody coming to 
Atlanta. Unless, of course, the 
committees assumed that by 1996 
the mountains would be flat, all > 
the rattlesnakes dead, and the 
Rebel Flag outlawed in public 
display.
Atlanta. What a boost of ego for 
the South. Next thing we know, 
after the Olympics theyll be so 
rich and complacent that they will 
secede again, and we will have to 
send all the warships in the Gulf 
back to Fort Sumter. They will set 
up new and ridiculous laws like 
the ones they set up in 1860, but 
moderated for modern times.
For one thing, they would inte
grate church and state immedi
ately, automatically canceling out 
wpmens suffrage and the outlaw
ing of prayer in the schools, and 
they would stick bible classes 
where the biology classes used to 
be.
Blacks will not be re-enslaved* 
but the Southerners who feel un
comfortable about voting them 
into public office will rejoice be
cause they wont be called racists 
anymore if they dont. CrossSOUTHERN COMFORT
by Alison Carter
burning will become legal as a 
means of religious expression.
I can already see the cultural 
differences that would set Geor
gia apart in 1996. The US will, of 
course, cover it up for the sake of 
the Olympics being in our coun
try.
However, there will be plenty of 
undercover servicemen pulling 
down the signs Welcome to the 
Nation of Georgia, Where the Men 
are Men and Youd Better Not 
Touch Our Women, A lot of Net
work security divisions will no 
doubt order the cameramen to 
film only the places where the 
KKK cant start a parade.
Im not predicting another Jesse 
Owens reaction like what hap
pened in Berlin in 1936, but I 
wouldnt be surprised.
Maybe the world is celebrating 
the 60th anniversary of holding 
the Olympic Games in a fascist 
state. But then, maybe Im only 
satirizing the entire culture and 
situation.
I actually have no doubt in my 
mind that Georgia will be just as 
appropriate to host the games as 
any other city would. The most 
that those who attend the games 
will experience will doubtless be 
only the sparkly Georgia Peaches 
in their cheerleading outfits and 
the traffic (thats bad enough!!) 
surrounding the city for fifty miles
Carol Peluso Costume Shop #3 
115 Meyran Avenue 
683-981 1
Masks. Wi^s & Costumes 
Novelties and Make-up!
Lowest Prices!!!
Mon thru Friday: 10 to 5 pm 
Sat: 10 to 2
I NEED A 
SURVIVAL 
GAME... 
BAD!
THREE 
RIVERS 
SURVIVAL 
GAME 
CALL 935-6100
 FRAT PARTIES
 BIRTHDAYS
 GIFT CERTIFICATES
NORMAL VOLUNTEERS
Male Subjects in good health between ages 18-45 are 
needed for a study testing a new eye medication.
Earn $150AwConducted by The Eye & Ear Institute of Pittsburgh 
For more information call 647-7647
in all directions.
There will be the occasional 
dedicated fanatical weirdos who 
will demand attention, like the 
Ku Klux Klan, or fans of Georgia 
Tech. But most people in Georgia 
are pretty levelheaded folks. (Ex
cept on Sundays. But then, they
need a little brimstone craziness 
to justify their hospitality and 
restraint.)
The risk of cultural contamina
tion for those going to the Olym
pics in 96 is pretty small. I only 
have one small bit of advice for 
those driving to Atlanta: If you
make a pit stop at a gas station in 
Podunk, Georgia and notice that 
the whites only signs are still on 
the bathroom doors and water 
fountains, dont panic.
It only means that the station 
couldnt afford to change the doors 
since 1963. It also shows how
much the impoverished state of 
Georgia needs an economic boost.
Heaven knows, Georgia has' 
been in the economic Dark Ages 
for long enough.
Alison Carter is a freshman in 
CFA.
$1.69
Country Chicken 
Sandwich
Offer ends 10/27/90-Limit 2
Please present coupon before ordering. One coupon per person per visit. Not valid in combination with any other oiler. Oiler good at participating Rax Restaurants only.f&X
$1.69
ANY HALF SUB
Offer ends 10/27/90 - Limit 2
Please present coupon before ordering. One coupon per person per visit. Not valid in combination with any other offer. Offpr good at _ participating Rax Restaurants only.Rax
FREE 
16oz. Soft Drink 
With purchase of 
990
Grilled Chicken 
Soft Taco
Rax
Please present coupon before ordering. One coupon per person per visit. Not valid in combination with any other offer. Offer good at participating Rax Restaurants only.
Offer ends 10/27/90 - Limit 2
$2.69 Reg. RAX, 
Reg. Twisty Fries 
and
16oz. Soft Drink
Offer ends 10/27/90-Limit 2
TOCAN 
LEARN 
ALOT 
ABOUT 
ECddUCS 
BY
COTTO
Just cut out the coupons and bring them 
over to Rax, and save on mouthwatering grilled chicken sandwiches, grilled 
chicken salads and grilled chicken soft 
tacos. Student aid never tasted so good.
Please present coupon before ordering. One coupon per person per visit. Not valid in combination with any other oiler. Offer good at . participating Rax Restaurants only.
NOBODYSTAXUPTO
Rax
 1990 Rax Restaurants, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  24 September 1990
Societys
Some say that necessity is the 
mother of invention. I do not sub
scribe to this belief. In my book, 
paranoia is the mother of inven
tion. How else can one explain the 
recent arrival of the kiddie bullet
proof vest?
Apparently, five hundred dol
lars will buy the average child a 
Levis jean jacket lined with 
Kevlar plates guaranteed to stop 
the average salvo of gunfire from 
the 9mm Israeli submachinegun 
now carried by the standard 
neighborhood bully.
It would be redundant for me to 
say that we live in paranoid times. 
Fifty percent of paranoia is 
awareness. It is impossible to be 
afraid of something one is un
aware of. Consider tartar. Five 
rears ago no one was afraid of 
tartar.
For most, the threat of tartar 
had more to do with those crazy 
barbarian hordes from the early 
middle ages than with the ongo
ing war inside the mouths of most 
Americans. But, one fateful day, 
slowly, quietly without anybody 
noticing, a magazine ad asked 
the question, How Much Do You 
Know About Tartar?
For the next five years, the war 
on tartar would be waged ardu
ously. Millions of Americans who 
would have previously lived, re
produced two point five times and 
died, took up the struggle. I am 
proud to say that the struggle has 
been won, but at what cost?
The cost, I am afraid to say has 
been the loss of all that previous 
public awareness of the dread 
problem of gingivitis. Now that 
tartar has been defeated, we must 
concentrate on gingivitis. Possibly 
at the expense of all of the 
awareness we have cultivated for 
the dread problem of tartar, but 
well worry about that later.
Paranoia is the grinding maWHO IS JAVI?
by Javier Grillo-Marxuach
chine which keeps society in line. 
Paranoia is the great civilizer.
People who worry about armpit 
odor do not go out and vandalize 
public property. People who dread 
being asked the question Are you 
wearing a pad? do not ask impo
lite things of one another.
People who stay at home won
dering if they are using the right 
bleach do not melt in the acid 
rain.
People who live in fear of not 
being able to seal ziploc bags 
properly if not equipped with a 
color guide do not get shot in the 
streets. People who fear getting 
shot in the streets buy their chil
dren bulletproof vests.
It doesnt end there. Escalation 
seldom does. The other fifty per
cent of paranoia lies in escalation. 
It may begin with teeth and 
armpits, but it ends with com
munism and nuclear annihilation.
For forty years we were all 
paranoid about nuclear annihila
tion. That and the possibility of 
Hitler worshippers cloning and 
army of fuhrers in order to farther 
their own evil deeds.
For fifty years, America bought 
bomb shelters and ducked-andcovered because of the possibility 
of the communists waging nuclear 
war against us.
For fifty years Americans be
lieved that Nuclear War would 
cause dinosaurs longlain dormant 
in the bottom of the oceans to 
awaken from their primordial 
sleep and destroy our cities with
their radioactive breath.
For fifty years, people believed 
that mutant radioactive crab 
monsters would come to rape their 
women.
Communist, mutant radioac
tive crab monsters.
Now that we are friends with 
Russia we cant be paranoid about 
nuclear war. We cant be fright
ened of communism either. Now 
that they have opened a Pizza 
Hut and McDonalds in Red 
Square, the once-communists are 
going to be much too busy wor
rying about their cholesterol 
counts to wage nuclear war on us, 
and our crabs.
So we have switched back to the 
pre-war standby of Chemical 
Warfare. Like nuclear war, 
chemical warfare is the perfect 
bugaboo to carry us into the next 
generation of fear. Our grand
parents were afraid of chemical 
warfare, giving the whole affair a 
sense of history.
Hell, chemical warfare was 
partially responsible for Hitlers 
having survived the First World 
War (Hitler was burned with 
mustard gas and taken to a hos
pital before he could be killed on 
the front as he should have). Does 
it come as a surprise that most 
newscasters pronounce Saddam 
as Sodom? Of course not.
During that middle period in 
which Gorbachev had been re
vealed to be a nice guy and the 
threat of nuclear war was collaps
ing, the powers-that-be tried to 
get us to fear the Latin American 
drug lords! The invasion-of 
Grenada mixed fear of commu
nism and fear of Latin people in 
one fell swoop.
Unfortunately, with the Latin 
population of the United States 
growing to an expected 20% by 
the year 2000 we have to be careful 
about getting too worked up over
Now that we are friends with Russia we cant be paranoid 
about nuclear war. We cant be frightened of communism 
either. Now that they have opened a Pizza Hut and 
McDonalds in Red Square, the once-communists are go
ing to be much too busy worrying about their cholesterol 
counts to wage nuclear war on us, and our crabs.
Latin people. Besides, we have 
won the war on drugs, and the 
communists are probably busy 
searching for the right antiperspirant.
I worry about what it is that we 
will be worrying about once 
chemical warfare anxiety has run 
its course. We cant be afraid of 
Iraqi Nerve Gas forever, but 
paranoia is cyclical. The past 
continually returns to frighten us, 
hence the arrival of The Exorcist
III was inevitable. Assuming a 
speedy end to Chemical Warfare 
Paranoia, well soon be scared of 
Indians coming into our homes 
and stealing our crabs, again.
Even though chemical warfare 
covers the international field very 
well, I fear that short of going 
back into believing in the Zionist 
Occupational Government or the 
nefarious drug ring run by the 
Demon Triumvirate of Queen 
Elizabeth, Henry Kissinger and 
Julio Iglesias, we will have no one 
to fear in the home-front. The 
home front is an important sphere 
of paranoia.
Eventually, escalation will 
bring us all, even Latin Ameri
cans, to fearing ourselves. Not 
that this has not already come 
true. We fear our own bodily flu
ids, detergents are made with 
protein in order to remove protein. 
Blood is a stain to be removed by 
a thing called ERA, which also
stands for equal rights amend
ment. Diapers are made to contain 
infant residue. Infant residue 
must be stopped. If it were not for 
consumer products, our own 
bodily fluids would have been the 
end of us years ago.
The fear du jour is the-,fear of 
the other generation. Children 
and parents have been at odds 
with one another from the mo
ment that the first baby spewed 
forth its first effusion of infant 
residue. Parents fear that the 
children they have created from 
their own bodily fluids can be 
reprogrammed into armed an
droids by the demon pentagon of 
Donny, Jordan, Joe, John and 
Darrny.
The children, in turn, fear that 
they will someday like the things 
their parents once enjoyed, and 
anybody who has ever seen a pic
ture of Jimmy Page circa 1974 
can understand this fear. Those 
of us in the middle fear that we 
will soon be banished to the same 
oblivion which has already 
claimed Boy George, the Rubiks 
Cube and all of the other mem
bers of ELO.
The younger generation 
threatens the dominance of the 
older generation, which fears be
ing consigned to the same place to 
which they have consigned the 
generation which came before 
them.
The younger generation fears 
the consumer products used by 
the older generation, having be
come aware of the fact that 
someday, even the hardiest of ' 
twenty year olds will have to be- ' 
come acquainted with the words  
Preparation H.
The younger generation fears 
the political climate which has ,, 
caused the older generation to., 
buy bulletproof jean jackets for -, 
the younger generation.
The older generation will soon 
buy gas masks for the younger 
generation, but not for the older 
generation, and they will then 
fear the younger generation for 
refusing to wear the gas masks as 
a sign of revolt, which is what 
they had been fearing all along.
Consumer products will be de
veloped, bought, sold, discarded, 
recycled, discarded, and ulti-. 
mately our own fear of destroying,, 
our environment will secure a >. 
peaceful planet based on the fear - 
that our bodily fluids might stain 
the carpet. I often take comfort in 
the thought that the fear of weak 
detergents will keep us in line, 
but sometimes the thought 
frightens me.
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is a 
Senior writing major who wakes 
up every morning to find that his 
worst nightmares have already 
come true.
Local band winds up crowds 
with talent at Allegheny County
By COLLEEN KANE
Tartan Staffwriter
Pittsburghs top country band, 
Unwound, played at the Commu
nity College of Allegheny County 
last Wednesday afternoon as part 
of CCACs student activities fair.
The colleges original intent was 
to have Unwound play outside 
Beyers Hall in order to draw stu
dents inside to the fair. Although 
rain forced the band to play its 
two sets in the gym, the turn out 
was better than expected.
Unwound began in 1988, and 
has been on a rapid rise to the top
ever since. It won Pittsburghs 
Battle of the Country Bands that 
same year; in 1989 it placed first 
in the regional finals of the 1989 
Marlboro Country Music RoundUp; it finished third in the nation 
in the same contest.
With Curtis Finney (lead 
rhythm, acoustic guitar, har
monica, and vocals), John 
Parrendo (fiddle and vocals), 
Vaugh Loftstead (lead guitar and 
vocals), David Taylor (drums and 
vocals), and Mike Evans (bass 
and vocals), Unwound is ex
tremely well liked in Pittsburgh. 
It already has a regular spot al
ternating weekends at a local 
Howard Johnson's, and it plays 
several other area clubs.
The band has played with many 
famous country acts. As part of 
the Marlboro Country Music 
Round-up prize, it not only won a 
largess, it won a spot as the 
opening act for the Marlboro 
Concert, which featured Alabama, 
George Straight, Ricky Van 
Shelton, and Restless Heart at 
the Pittsburgh Civic Arena. Un
wound has also appeared with 
Emmylou Harris, the Judds, the 
Desert Rose Band, James House, 
and the Kentucky Headhunters.
 ALTOONA PA944-1211726.723 FOURTH AVE ASHTABULA WG
ONE 10PEPPERONI PIZZA!
DELIVERED!
$
only
TWO 140NE ITEM PIZZAS & 4 $4AQR 
FREE CANS OF COKE OR PEPSIoptbbr 190 1ByrRH9ON DAT U HM9b GEdn5fRcEdn5f
> BECKLEY WV253-9696JM N. EISENHOWER DR> BRIDGEPORT OH635-2400SOI MAIN STREET> BUTLER PA *283-33833M WEST WAYNE ST. CARLISLE PA243-0006598 WEST HIGH ST.
 FRANKLIN PA432-7700.902 LIBERTY ST. HAQERSTOWH MD *739-838070 WEST FRANKLIN ST. OIL CITY PA876-5800204 EAST SECOND ST.
' MEADVILLE PA724-4242660 TERRACE ST McKEES ROCKS PA771-5554836 CHARTIERS AVE> WASHINGTON PA *223-0111860 JEFFERSON AVE ZANESVILLE N OH *452-9300 1250 MAPLE AVE> ZANESVILLE S OH * 452-9444153 MAYSVILLE AVE
FOUR SUR' 
PIZZA
Fast FREE 
Delivery
 * WITHIN 30 MINUTES4740 BAUM BLVD *
'ASK ABOUT OUR 12 MINUTE GUARANTEE!
LUNCH TIME SPECIAL!INCLUDES ANY 10"ONE ITEM PIZZA ,$ 
PLUS A12 OZ CAN OF COKE OR PEPSI 0N
I Two 14 One Item"' I 
I Pizzas (Doublezz) I24 SLICES I
*$
I
I mini 
~ i
ma cmtsa na ob  COUPON! 
Family Special ] Pizza & Sub Combo" f" Pepparonl Forever"!' UiCLUOES A LARGE PIZZA WITH YOUfl CMOCt
PLUS FOB FREE CAKS Of COKE OR PEPSII GET ANOTHER FOR ONLT MOO UOAE11049l51395is10"i 8" i
mu
! Two 14 One Item ' ! Family Special
 Pizzas (Doublezz) 
! $I Onlyi,
PLUS FOUB FREE CAW OF CO Ofl PEPSI.
. I . 1___Xaa cam am coupon loanoili
I
I $
 Only
I'coupon a urn m c|q sa n coufoni na m ea g
! Pizza I Sub Combo' [ a the game'1  
! ! Footbal1 Special j,UL.1JL1] ______________ I OfTOWOOCE I TWO 14-ONE ITEM PIZZAS 
1049i*1395i*10"i *91? :I I  I VALIO FRIDAYS 10PM UMiDI  ____I *** _^tn. I
cacan COUPON a an e=n Jkz cn m i COUPON MBiaiJ
DICEASRE ENGLER 
PRESENTS
Gene
Loves also starring
Jezebel
Concrete
Blond
at the
with special guest
ANDY PRIEBOY
on Sunday, October 14 
Syria Mosque Ballroom
Tickets available at:
Skibo Information Desk 
$14.00 per ticket
Valid CMU I.D. required
Brought to you by-.
CONCERTS
Funded by your Student Activity Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Calvin and Hobbes by Bill WatersonDoonesbury by G. B. Trudeau
'MORNING, IFSOLDAI ISN'T THE COM- / PANY FLORJST! YOU BEEN AS~ SIGNET? YET,ft? rf 'MOMRNOIGI
THAT'S ANOTHER WING I REMEMBER FROM THE NAM LOTS OF STING AROUND! YOU WANT TO KNOW WHATTHE REAL wENEMY IS HERB?...
HI, GUYS! BOY, BOREDOM! VEMA&A BOREPOfA LOT OF NEU ANPLONE- FRIENDS LINE55/ HERB!
LET'S START AT TUE BEfilNNlNG. 
WmtUW SOMETHING, VQU 
IHCRE/SE WHAT 10U HAVE. VOU
COMBINE. _/----------
s._____y 1 DONT WANT
TO \m THIS ! 
I r ~X ITS COMPIETELI
f-Qv IRRELEVANT TO
w LIFE / rt^
I DONT/
I CAN GET 
AlONG F IKE WITHOUT MATH:
IMIS ISHT 
IRREIEVANT. 
EVERYONE NEEDS Tb 
KNOW THIS.
CWVEAH? WHAT 
D0100 WANT TO BE WHEN VOU 
GRCW UP? EVEW 
JOB REQUIRES 
SOME MATH. /
TUATS NOT 
REAU.V A 
^ JOB. .
NOPE. VEBEEN SITTING AROUND EVER SINCE WE ARFJVED... \
A CAVEMAN/ VEAU/HMtHi f1H 
eaAE 0yy PO tmmm tCm
WERE, MMBE THIS WIU. MAKE 
MCRE SEHSE. I HAVE EIGHT PENNIES, r ASK 'fOU FDR .
FOUR MORE./---------------<S,_______I SAV FORGET
\ IT. VOORE THE
rf -T ONE WITH .S (J.y K STEADV \th 0 2wgA.mmNO, JUST 
HERE ON 
THE TABLE.
JUST GIVE ME \FOUR PENNIES. \
GOOD. HOW MUCH I______
MONEV DO E S " HAVE NOW? ( IKVESTMEHTS 
j, \ AND All?
NO. EIGHT 
PLUS FCUR 
IS TWELVE. 
SEE? COJHT 
THEM UP. ,
TO FEND OFF HEAT DISORDER, YOU GOTTA HYDRATE! SIX. GALLONS A DAYTHAT'S 24 OF THESE BOTTLES!
THAT BREAKS DOWN TO 96 EIGHT-OUNCE GLASSES A DAY, OR ONE GLASS EVERY TEN MINUTES FORlb HOURS _____
, A DAY! y<'f73~>'
BETTER UM...WHAT ILL GET IF WE'RE COVER STARTED. ATTACKED7 YOU / \ WHILEr7-------- \ YOU4--^fiWTR| s \ PRINK.
OKAY. GENTLEMEN, HERE'S THE IRRIGATION PR/LL...
EIGHT
CENTSBUT THOSE 
FOUR ARE 
MINE/ .
if WATER I
W32an|
[ I WATER 1I
WWS THE \ PRETT GCOD. 
MATH LESSON I THINK 
GOING f 1 CALVIN SEES 
y. _______ THE IDEA NOW.
I TOOK PENNIES AND SHOWED 
HCW ADDING AND SUBTRACTING 
TUE HT CHANGED HOW MUCH 
MONEV HE HAO. ITS NOT SO ABSTRACT TUAT WAV .
GOOD. MAVBE 
HEIL DO BETTER 
IN CLASS NOW.
NOW GIVE ME WAIT A
ANOTHER FIVE MINUTE
CENTS AND 1
LET'S SEE WHAT 
I HAVE.' . JT ^
I THINK HE 
Will. HE WAS HAVING FUN WITH IF BV 
THE END.
WITHOUT CONSTANT UJATER INFUSION, YOU'RE DEAD MEAT-YOU PEHPRATE INA BUNK! WATER IS EVERYTHING HERE, /TS THE _ PIFFEFENCE BETWEEN LIFE tZ ANPPEATH! GET 1% SOLDIER
SIX GALLONSOF WATER A PAYf THAT CAN'T BE RJGHT...
YOU GET IT, COLONEL?DAMNWEEKENDWARRIORS.
BOV, L FEEL SHARP/ I 
KNOW THIS MATH STUFF COLO: 
I'M READV FOR. ANYTHING/
0 M15O HMO HOtpMOb pt9i 
8s IA- i M8A , kAS S8 
Of1BiHbtHO t 5b1PyOf 
tH HMO P1tb- 0oyy 
0f5bOii OhObi1BO%3yfk! som/,OneMBsmte.m,u5* swav...
s/xattfws?yarissuw5/X 6AL10N5 BV5K DA'/?
WUNVS
THIS?CDUIVBB THE PRESYS n 57npy ONLY GETS ONE JHERE GALLON... i
HA/ WHO NEEDS 
lOVk ANSWERS?: 
ILL BET I GET A BETTER 
SCORE THAN 
VOJ DO.
4epED SePN
DCUB\ IF 
AND MAKE 
\F 55* CENTS
I'LL BET SOU 
25 CENTS I 
GET A HIGHER 
GRADE.
VOU MIGHT AS WELL 
GIVE WE THE QUARTER 
NOW AND SAVE VORSELF THE 
WM\L\AT10N LATER!
MAVBE VOU'D ^ 
LIKE TO INCROSE THE WAGER, 
MR.BIGMOUTH. .
DONT TRV 
COPV MV 
ANSWERS 
THIS TIME, 
CALVIN, OR 
ILL TELL.
PETER, I'M SOMEWHERE IN THE MIDEAST, TALKING TO ARMY CAPTAIN EP LATOUR. CAPTAIN,WHATLEEEObE FROM THE fn rii GRENADA AND PANAMA [ U INVASIONS HAVE YOUBEEN ABLE TO APPLY U_,ssff-SartnAsisN
WE FOUND THAT WE CAN CONTROL THE PRESS POOL, GIVE THEM BASICALLY SQUAT, ANP THERE ISN'T A DAMN THING THEY CAN PO ABOUT rr! gU
VOUREUM... I SEE. YES, BUTANY OTHER ,LESSONS? CLASSIFIED.
MAN, THIS IS GOING TO BE 
GREAT/ NOT ONLX AtA L GOING TO ACE TU\S QU17L, 
BUT IM GOING TO WIN A 
QUARTER FROM SJSIE WHEN 
I GET A BETTER SCORE 
THAN SUE DOES /
OK./ TUE FIRST PROBLEM 
IS G*5. OU.EASV/ THE 
w ANSWER. \S...UM... >
HIS SPACECRAFT 
GWIETLI HUHMING, THE INCRQMBLE 
I SPACEMAN SPIFF APPROACHES THE 
I SIXTH PLANET 
 OF THE MVSTER10 
L SVSTEM/ -
...ANP IF OUR BOYS DO GO ON THE OFFENSIVE, IT WILL-BE THROUGH HARSH, UNFORGIVING P6SERT TERRAIN UKE THIS THAT THEY WILL HAVE TDAPVAHCE !
NO, PETER, I'M C'MON,/VRAIPI CAN'T JUST THE GIVE YOU THAT REGION... INFORMATION. 4
FROM ROLAND, WE UNDER-SOMEUJHERE STAND THE NEEP IN THEM IP- FORSEJRJTY, BUT EAST,THIS COULPYOUTELLUS IS ROLAND WHAT GENERAL HEDLEY! AREA YOU'RE \ REPORT.RHHHHndnJHnd.NO, REALLY, I SEE.I'M LOST. WELL, GOODLUCK, ROLAND!
uylDhs yso GrPPem is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Press. BrrsemPMg, is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
The Far Side by Gary Larson
Comics
qbe kyg Thoe is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.OK, this time Rex and Zeke will be the wolves, 
Fifi and Muffin will be the coyotes, and ... Listen!. 
Here comes the deer!

---------------------------------------------------

WMtlyso is a weekly feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
iSJ
4
T*pB
C.0OMT Dr.kc.uua t*\6 AnwseMENT W^V;.
HOUSE A MIRRORS
1%\
yy
c>n
sU
Ov
]/\] (."fWrspocvN Aiscovef ed rcl*fivi-hj firs-t.  
8u+ alas, Uc cojIc| Mot 'proved'.
CFtx Blpe-^PutVT
SMinCMQU UlclSilUl
PJOT" _ 's4*yg[ J'
1

---------------------------------------------------

X
2n

---------------------------------------------------

Draw Comics!
Look at all the cool comics The Tartan is getting! Jump on the bandwagon! If 
you can only draw, find someone who can write. If you're just funny, find 
yourself an artist. And if you can write and draw, what are you waiting for? Get 
your work published in The Tartan. Deadline for submissions is kghoy,  
vhosh!btf Questions? Call Art Editor Bill Sabram @ x2111.

---------------------------------------------------

.AMV'RESehLAMCe KX-.CUJFLe AtY^ w ^ m ' Liv,tJ& L OTRSRuMtf, \s TOtAuy uAOiirrFJTloo4-w- /M+Y&ff.
Carrne
fjifllt
cross
) Edward Julius Collegiate CK83-28
1234
14
17
20
i*
24S
i323334
3/
40
43
H46
515253
56
60
63
[28
10111213
!
19
35
ACROSSL$ BgM! rgoeg
.c q,ae ri yggys!evest
cN Wse/m aygtseg 
Sc etths! Urs
c Ttrgy!e sMhmysUe.L Vs!grmmeomhoegythrs
. byt maelMswegm.. 2rethU tegvSN KMvhsrMm UhgUle
e3alrge.$ qesshm tegvS. Bhsem
c6 Ttyte ilrneg ri. Vyt yny,S$ Tvyll Prttlem
Ytyb.d C!yhsSd TtMvPle
cL pppppppp Uroe$6 ErthrsN6 krro ihmb
c. ly5hs!$c pppppppp !ervetg,Nc hPlhUyl DhUthv
c$ geyw pppppppp$S :-rMg vyRemt,:NS KrUweg grrv f
c pppppppp mUgees$N Cnyht oeUhmhrsmrrtbeg
cO )evrgysoy$L kygv mtgMUtMgemNN 2rtarMggh
cd CUtMyl
S6 TrUw aygt
$. uhUytgh3NL Th!s
N. pppppppp ri Uyll
Sc Cgrvy
SS krgth iheo nhseDOWNNO Ee!lh!est
Nd Kes!tb Mshtm
SL 2ghvhthDec )eohteggyseysLc BMvP pppppppp
S CaaesohmlysoLS uylesoyg yPPgeDh
SO Gegrhse hs :KyS GMsteg hs ymtgrsrv,ythrs
qgyDhyty:N elheiLL qyPle ri irro
NS 2ly,m y brgs 
N. ubhUr/m hsmtgMvest
L 2ymm tbe ppppppppL. qnrpirrteo yshvylm
. kgyswL pppppppp nyDe
N$ pppppppp srmem6 pppppppp yso bhmLO CgUbhteUtMgyl
N Brsythrsmvrse,fffrgoeg
NO Bgy! rDeg tbe pppppppp CgUbhteUtMgylLd pppppppp PMiiy
Nd Ttrr!e Kygg, ppppppppoeUrgythrs xS nomf8.6 )rge geUest
HL6 0rli Pyll armhthrs8 eirge.c )gf hlmrs
Lc rgwm nhtb mrUwmd Thtths!m ri UrMgt.S Wge oearmht
LS klrneg aygtc6 YstgrMPleo.N 7htUbes htev
LN CmmrUhytemcc Ct ys, thve.O kgesUb whs!
L. ulymmgrrv UrstemtcS V4Mhavest.d Cshvyl ri iyPle
These are the answers to last issues's puzzle.
?0000 000 
530000 0000 000000000 000000000 
EE3U 13ES 130 000000 00000013 00000 amo 0030001362611 
0HBI00 0EB00 0E30 0000 00000 ????
000 Q0000 0000EI H00B0000 OQH 
0B000 0BI0EJ0I0E!000000 0000 000000000000 000000000 0B00 0000030 0000 00000ml

---------------------------------------------------

Making a Successful Graduate School Application: 
The Nuts and Bolts of Applying
 H&SS and IM majorsMonday October 1 at 4:30 pm Baker Hall 355
CIT and MCS majors Monday October 1 at 4:30 pm Adamson Wing, Baker Hall
These academic colleges and the Career Center are sponsoring programs for students who want to explore graduate school opportunities. You will learn:
Why to consider graduate school
How to develop a successful application for admission 
Scholarship, fellowship, and financial aid information
TmevytepieJpl/p?phmhmtvptJphs Carana e giMli
ADAPT Tfc
UtMMsM-WtoWJtis o hvD.Cfc, JlDSTim, i.'?
LXs ffi&fcL'to
3*feHs^*-hjWcSi.l*To ft0
tir*3Uttfc\ ZLtitZtifi***otzOTttoo
U.S.A. -t i j~ Washington D.C.
90.11.10(SAT) 11 (SUN)
TOKYOiz 5 j~
90.12.27(THU)
 U.S.A. &*/rj30tt. TOKYO Hit-/tf}50
*sa Lit
*}& :*#* 6^2; Ti:^(Bachelor IU<7)
wmm tte&ik
 Tt7>aaf^*=2ii*(i U.S.A. **-/
500 TOKYO t-i--/l2fll50iai:S^I
E5ni.^X^A!l99l%lil(7)^(i500 K^i T= I2EI4BUtfiiZ'M
s%If IKq 275PH 
SiciTc ??>-. ffy U 
; i-tA,
U.S.A. *-# /lOE 8B(ti)
TOKYO -trS^-/MSl2B(fl)
LftfittftlfSt.. X-T^JDT7Txc7)iJ05-SL
Tc
 Jlb-ti i&tTti, tt-cntifflgiJT-SlOT^-t S-f- fcflWiL 
Tl'Tc
^^335 New York, Los Angeles 11E 1rrB]7-SiSM/'m  t=i  sis (samt)
New York 9/22()23( B ). Boston 9/25(*)26(*) 
Chicago 9/28(). San Francisco 9/29()30( B ) 
i/im  fffl  :m  |*Ui  f* (3S-**)
h (*Sc*tt) PffitttHtSI 
TEL. 1-800-537-2186 Jfct 03-234-5071 
(-B9:00ifl-6:00pn B^5W)
m /ttis  ffi  isw  oj  me
-feJU*- h U.S.A. New York Office 
TEL. 1-800-344-7241 tzlt 212-985-5520 
(B9:00iB~5:00oa NY Time)iIS/;UIL
HERE'S WHY 
THE SMART MONEY AT 
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSE 
IS GOING WITH TIAA-CREF 
AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDED ONE
Because it does. Smart investors 
know that your future depends on 
how well your retirement system 
performs. TIAA-CREF has been the 
premier retirement system for people 
in education and research for over 70 
years. We have enabled ovfer 200,000 
people like you to enjoy a comfortable 
retirement. And over 1,000,000 more 
are now planning for the future with 
TIAA-CREF.
SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY, 
GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR 
RETIREMENT SAVINGS. 
Securityso the resources are there 
when it is time to retire. Growthso 
youll have enough income for the 
kind of retirement you want. And 
diversityto help protect you against 
market volatility and to let you benefit 
from several types of investments.
THATS EXACTLY WHAT YOU GET 
WITH TIAA-CREF.
TIAA offers you the safety of a 
traditional annuity that guarantees 
your principal plus a specified rate of 
interest, and provides for additional
growth through dividends. CREFs 
variable annuity offers opportunities 
for growth through four different 
investment accounts, each managed 
with the long-term perspective essen
tial to sound retirement planning:
The CREF Stock Account 
The CREF Money Market Account 
The CREF Bond Market Account* 
The CREF Social Choice Account*
CALL 1-800-842-2776 
TO FIND OUT MORE 
Our experienced retirement counselors 
will be happy to answer your questions 
and tell you more about retirement 
annuities from TIAA-CREF.
Experience. Performance. Strength. 
Your future is protected by the largest 
private retirement system in the world. 
We have done so well, for so many, for 
so long, that we currently manage 
some $85 billion in assets.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it."
* The CREF Bond Market and Social Choice Accounts may not be available under all institutional retirement plans, but are available for all Supplemental Retirement Annuity plans.
For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call 1 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a 
prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money.
In Che last three months
we found and signed 11
new models to major N.Y.
modeling agencies
including Wilhelmina,
Metropolitan, Mode, PosterFell, Paulines, and others.
You could be next.
Top New York fashion
photographers will be
testing in this area for one
week only. Together with
N.Y. hair and make-up
artists, we turn average
faces into cover girls. If
you've got that special
look, we'll take you to New
York - all expenses paid.
We're Fashionique, Inc. - the 
largest model photography 
company in N.Y. and the best 
independent modeling scouts in 
the world. We discover new stars 
the right way  by watching them 
work with the top professionals in 
the business.
We are on tour with the very 
same photographers and make-up 
artists used by every major 
modeling agency in New York. 
This year's photographers include 
such well-known names as Barry 
Yee, Michael Keel, Steve 
Ragland, Harvey Butts, Victor 
Vitug, Frank Mar si, Blair Kruse, 
Greg Vandenberg, and Bruce 
Caines.
Because top agencies pay us 
generous finders fees when we 
discover new talent, we can 
afford to test new models for 
prices unmatched in the industry. 
Have your look changed twice by 
top hair and make-up artists. Test 
with two different leading New 
York fashion photographers (36 
poses with each - total of 72 
poses) and you own all the film 
and negatives.
Try it yourself or give it as a 
gifto someone special.
FflSHIONIQU, INC.
Limited Registration
For further information, call:
212-274-9505
ONLY $195

---------------------------------------------------

Kresges A Chorus Line is
second best to none
One singular 
sensation
Bobby (Jack Plotnick), Bebe (Pamela Gutteridge), Judy (Beth Zuman), and Richie (W. Ellis Porter), line up 
to hand over their picture and resume.
The members of the company each try to get the directors attention during the audition.
Above: Cassie (Natascia Diaz) takes the stage alone 
to plead for the chance to dance for Zach (Mark 
Brettschneider) during the song The Music and the 
Mirror.
Top Left: Al (GregStuhr) coaches his slightly neurotic 
wife Kristine (Ashley Cruz) through the number Sing.
Bottom Left: Twenty-year-old Mark (Steven Prince) 
promises that if he gets the part hell work really 
hard.
By TERRI KASCH
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
The seventies is not exactly the 
most glorious period in our his
tory/With the ridiculous clothes, 
the disco music, and fads like mood 
rings and pet rocks, few people 
seem to miss it.
But not everything that came 
out of the seventies is dead and 
buried. Right over on Kresge stage 
the seventies are alive and well 
and looking pretty good.
Director/Choreographer John 
DeLuca and Musical Director 
Jerry D antry have resurrected the 
seventies with the musical A 
Chorus Line. Yes, the music does 
have a distinctly seventies sound 
and bell bottom pants make a few 
appearances. But dont go 
screaming to the nearest hiding 
place yet.
A Chorus Line was a landmark 
production back when it opened 
fifteen years ago. It was the first 
musical to expose members of the 
chorus as people with interesting 
stories to tell and important con
tributions to make. The plot is 
simple: Director Zach (Mark 
Brettschneider) has been holding 
auditions for the chorus of a big
down to fifteen people. However, 
he only needs eight. But although 
he has every dancers picture and 
resume, Zach wants them to tell 
a little about themselves before 
making his choice.
The stories start out tame, as 
Mike (Jeffrey Kubiatawicz) tells 
how he first began dancing with 
the upbeat song I Can Do That. 
Soon the accounts get much more 
personal as the audience discov
ers that two of the dancers are 
homosexual, about half had mis
erable home lives, and one, Cassie 
(Natascia Diaz), had a stormy past 
with Zach.
The shows cast and crew have 
put together a wonderful pro
duction filled with shining mo
ments. First-rate performances 
were turned out by all, but there 
are several especially notable 
performances by the following 
seniors.
Natalie Belcon gives a hilari
ously sophisticated performance 
as icy Sheila, the oldest dancer in 
the group who takes her time and 
does what she wants with little 
concern for what others think of 
her. She also does her best to give 
Zach a hard time. When Zach 
says that he wants four boys,
quips, Do you want any women?
Val, played by Lisa Mathis, also 
has a smart mouth. Mathis does a 
wonderful rendition of the infa
mous Dance Ten, Looks Three, 
probably better known as Tits 
and Ass. Here Mathis struts 
about the stage, proudly display
ing the secret to her success.
W. Ellis Porter has one of the 
smaller roles in the show, but he 
is still a stand-out. His spectacular 
dancing and unforgettable voice 
dont allow him to be any other 
way. As Richie, Porter wows the 
audience during the ensemble's 
song Hello Twelve, Hello Thir
teen as he explains his realiza
tion that, although he got a schol
arship to college, no one was go
ing to hand over a scholarship to 
life.
Although Ty Taylor is a fabulous 
dancer and singer, he is not able 
to simply rely on these talents 
when playing Paul. He delivers 
the most wrenching monologue 
in the show, the story of his youth 
and his first job in show business. 
Taylor pulls this off remarkably, 
delivering a convincing, under
stated speech in which he doesnt 
allow his character to wallow in 
self-pity.

---------------------------------------------------

KcS qbe qygtys * uygse!he )ellrs * SL TeatevPeg cdd6
Dreams come alive in the Tournee of Animation
By ALLISON DURAZZI
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Like a really strange dream that is not 
possible to describe, the animation art
ists highlighted in The XXII Interna
tional Tournee Of Animation have used 
their skills and imagination to acquire 
these impossible images.
Kakania, the opening film by Karen 
Aqua, is a strong visual piece with per
sistent drumbeat music. The characters
 wily figures with oversized colorful 
heads and masks  dance to this music. 
Aquas use of more-than-vibrant colors 
hold the audience through this jubilation. 
Aqua won first place with Kakania at 
the New York Film and Video Expo.
Letting his creativity work overtime, 
Jim Richardson gives us Cat & Rat. 
Richardson shows the entire process of 
his animation, from the first pencil sketch 
to ink, color, and even live action, while 
the characters, the cat and the rat, 
whimsically antagonize each other. He 
draws them the same size at first, and 
the cat chases the rat. Then the mouse is 
redrawn to seven times the size of the 
cat, and back and forth until the twist 
ending.
The Arnold Waltz by Craig Bartlett 
is a short film for anyone who has ever 
been a victim of a boring class. Arnold, a 
humdrum elementary school student, 
loses track of his teachers as he falls into 
his daydreams. Bartlett brilliantly de
picts these dream sequences from a childs 
point of view, making Arnold an acces
sible character. The best thing about
 Movie Review 
? ??THE XXII INTERNATIONAL TOURNEE 
OF ANIMATION. Brand new compilation of 
18 animations from around the world. At 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse until September 
30.
Arnold is the way he handles being rep
rimanded for daydreaming. In one se
quence, he is brought back to class by a 
teacher asking him to step down from a 
chair he inadvertently climbed during 
his fantasy; Arnold just says, What? 
Oh. and steps down. Moments later, the 
screen above his head is filled with an
other wild, popping delusion.
Gisele Kerozene by French animator 
Jan Kounen is the only film in The 
Tournee to use human figures exclu
sively. Humans is actually not the best 
way to describe these fiends. Their witch
like noses and black pointed fingernails 
are only the beginning of their extrater
restrial villainy; they never speak, of
fering only guttural mumbles as they fly 
on brooms and mops. They destroy vir
tually everything in their paths, but the 
humor lies in their actions that are always 
one step beyond the believable, and they 
are too bizarre for any word in the English 
(or other) language.
Interspersed among the eighteen 
award-winning short films are cartoons 
by George Plimpton. One of the funniest 
offered, titled The Mafia: The Early
Days, is a man on a horse; he kicks the 
horse (as in giddyup), pauses for three 
seconds, then explodes.
Not all the films are pointed toward 
humor. Soviet animator Alexander 
Petrovs The Cow is a compelling ac
count of a familys cow and its calf, told 
by a son in the family. The story and the 
visual themes weave in and out of each 
other to produce a somber but complete 
work regarding the cow's loss of its calf.
Another Soviet animator featured is 
Gerri Bardin. His piece, Vykrutasy, is 
done with a wire coil. A man is created 
from the coil and immediately begins 
using the rest of the wire to create his 
environment. He starts with trees, then 
bushes, and even a sown garden. After 
the trees grow, they are vandalized (these 
bandits as well as the others in the film 
are never seen). So he makes a dog, and 
in a lighthearted moment teaches it to 
bark by barking at it. Again and again, 
any progress the man makes is undone. 
As his garden is ground into the dirt, he 
becomes intensively obsessed with 
fighting these Uncontrollable forces. 
Bardin complements well the humor of 
this situation with the gravity of the wire 
mans self-perpetuated demise.
The Bedroom by Maarten Koopman 
is his animated recreation of the famous 
painting by Van Gogh ofhis own bedroom. 
In it, Koopman builds the room and its 
furniture step by meticulous step until it 
is exactly aligned with the painting, 
showing Koopmans delicate skill with 
claymation.
Undisputably, the best piece in The
1990 Expanded Entertainment
An Academy Award Nominee for Best Animated Short, Balance explores the nature 
of greed among five brothers.
Tournee is Balance, an Academy Award 
Nominee by Cristoph and Wolfgang 
Lauenstein. The title, and theme, are 
tightly maintained throughout the 
storyline. Several men standing on a 
suspended platform work together to 
maintain the balance of the platform 
while one of them fishes out a box from 
the ocean. As they try to figure out
what was in the box, they maneuver 
themselves so that no one or the box fall 
off an edge. The tension of their solidar
ity and curiosity leads them into greed, 
and they each take turns listening to the 
box, taking shocking steps to upset the 
balance. The animators show this con
flict with gripping focus until its chilling 
end.
The consequences of reality
I remember a few years ago 
when people were becoming con
scious of the fact that comic books 
werent just coloring books with 
tacky sound affects. A common 
statement made by comic book 
readers was that theyre more 
realistic now.
Did you hear that? More real
istic.
I dont want to make glittering 
generalities, but on the whole, 
when people said more realistic 
they essentially meant that com
ics had learned to integrate the 
concept of death into storylines.
It was a novel concept at the 
time, because all of a sudden it 
gave the characters a mortality 
that they never possessed before. 
But as the comic buying populace 
became jaded to the idea that 
characters could die, storylines 
had to establish new baselines for 
novelty. All of a sudden the new 
standard for reality in comicbooks 
was not just an occasional death 
to spice things up, but a massive 
dose of violence. The more violent 
a book was, the more realistic, the 
more adult it was, and if you 
werent reading books like that,
COMIC RELIEF
by Waseem Hussain
well gosh, you just didnt have 
any taste!
The result of such a reality 
mentality is what we see today in 
many books. Im not protesting 
the use of violence  after all, if 
you dont like it just dont buy it. 
The best way to protest is to put 
your dollar (or two) somewhere 
else. The real tragedy of the 
situation lies in what it has done 
to some of the most dynamic and 
creative minds behind comics.
Once upon a time there was a 
man named Frank Miller who 
used to write and draw some of 
the most gripping, emotionally 
involving, truly realistic books to 
ever grace the medium. Of course, 
he used violence and death in his 
stories, but they were always tools
in creating a larger, more complex 
reality for his characters to deal 
with.
The end result were stories high 
in characterization that made his 
characters seem as vivid and 
tragic as real people. But then, at 
the height of his career, he mys
teriously disappeared from com
ics and ended up in Hollywood.
When you lose the ability to 
communicate with people, you end 
up going for the lowest common 
denominator. This usually finds 
form in our reality by way of small 
talk, which is a relatively unin
teresting albeit benign form of 
communication. In art though, if 
there is nothing of substance to be 
said, then it is better left unsaid 
or else it could turn ugly real fast.
Poor Frank Miller. Somewhere 
underneath all of the dull, vio
lence was an attempt at social 
satire in his Hollywood endeavor 
Robocop 2.1 wonder if Mr. Miller 
thinks that violence is directly 
proportional to realism in art. He 
hasnt done anything to dispel 
that notion with his latest comic 
book work, Hard Boiled.
Once again, as in his movie, he
is attempting in vain to create a 
satire on societys morals. But 
Hard Boiled suffers from the same 
disease as Millers script for 
Robocop 2: the mental perception 
that somehow reality is equal to 
violence.
The artwork, however, is ex
ceptional. Geof Darrow is strong 
in establishing scenes and has a 
terrific grasp of expressions. But 
even the art cannot warrant the 
$4.95 price tag for thirty some
thing pages of meaningless vio
lence.
Its a real tragedy, and I cant 
shake the feeling Im writing a 
eulogy for one of the great minds 
of comics. Still there is some hope 
for Miller  his other recent 
work Give Me Liberty seems to 
have a sense of direction that could 
mark his reemergence. Who 
knows? Maybe all of this is just a 
phase hes going through. Lets 
hope so.
All comics are courtesy of Phan
tom of the Attic.
Waseem Hussain is a junior bi
ology major whose column was 
printed only because we had space 
we needed to fill.
And you thought Dirty Harry was tough? A typical scene from Frank 
Millers new comic Hard Boiled.
In the Comic Book World (just like in Real Life) one major factor is a true 
indicator of a person's character.. .their hairstyle!
...What do these hairstyles reveal?...StressedOut?
Stress Reduction Workshop
Are daily stressors adding up? Are you 
becoming stressed out? If you would 
like to learn more about stress and how to 
handle it, the Stress Reduction Workshop 
may be for you.
Kent Ferris from the Housing Office and 
Cindy Valley from the Counseling Center 
will be presenting the first part of the three 
part workshop on Thursday, October 4th, 
at 4:30 p.m. If you would like to attend, 
please call x2139 and reserve a spot. 
The workshop will be limited to twelve 
people for the first offering.
Insane Genius
...or these?
CIMINI
HAIR DESIGN 
406 S. CRAIG STREET
$10.00!
621-HAIR 
ALL STUDENTS CUTS 
WITH STUDENT ID
PHANTOM OF THE ATTIC
COMICS AND GAMING 
214 S. CRAIG STREET 621-1210
25% OFF! ALL GRAPHIC NOVELS
? WITH COUPON
AT 
"CIMINI 
HAIR DESIGN" 
WE CAN GIVE 
YOU THE 
LOOK 
THAT'S BEST 
FOR YOU!...GOOD COMICS & GOOD GROOMING 
ITS WHAT LIFE IS ALL ABOUT!
AT
"PHANTOM OF 
THE ATTIC' 
WE CAN SHOW 
YOU WHY 
THIS IS SO 
IMPORTANT!

---------------------------------------------------

qbe qygtys * uygse!he )ellrs * SL TeatevPeg cdd6KcN
VZZId lUdVO VZZId lUdVO
g Daily Special <
 Our Famous 
| Large IB" Pizza |
I $5.99 tax 1
S FREE I
I PEPSI i
B with any |
0 large, X-large, 
% or buster pizza, ft5 CL
1 681-2202 I
CAPRI PIZZA CAPRI PIZZA
 Movie Review 
???? POSTCARDS FROM THE 
EDGE. A story of a young actress 
and her aging starlet mother com
ing to grips with their drug addic
tions as well as each other. Starring 
Meryl Streep, Shirley MacLaine, 
Dennis Quaid, Richard Dreyfuss, 
and Gene Hackman.
pharmacy of drugs racing through 
her veins. She is dropped off at 
the hospital by one-night-stand 
man J ack Falkner (Dennis Quaid) 
after overdosing on Percodan, and 
begins a rehabilitation program. 
After her rehabilitation is com
plete, she is forced to move in 
with her mother in order to keep 
the part she has just landed in a 
new movie.
Thats when the fireworks be
gin.
Doris Mann is a Hollywood leg
end and all too aware of it. When
she throws a welcome-home party 
for her daughter, she talks a re
luctant Suzy into singing for her 
guests with the transparent pur
pose of being asked to perform 
herself.
Doris is an alcoholic, but not 
ready to admit it. She overshad
ows her daughter in every way in 
order to compensate for the feel
ings of worthlessness passed on 
to her by her mother, and the 
movie is as much about her emo
tional struggle as it is about 
Suzys.
Both of the lead actresses are 
absolutely fantastic. Streep and 
MacLaine not only act their roles 
suberbly; they are also both strong 
in their respective musical num
bers. Streeps final scene perfor
mance of Checking Out of This 
Heartbreak Hotel seems to be 
almost a vindication of her earlier 
misery.
Other cast members shine as 
well. Richard Dreyfuss is the doc
tor who pumps Suzys stomachy, 
after her overdose and asks hertgj' 
out on a date after her recovery/>& 
Dennis Quaid is the womanizing;^ 
movie producer Jack Falkner.ftv 
Gene Hackman is Suzys former 
director who gives her strongs 
doses of both realism and self-;-.: 
esteem. Although the cast can 
certainly be called all-star, the_-^ 
stars show their true power byj/;. 
playing their roles with simplicity and grace, not flamboyancy or Ji 
glitz. ffci
Postcards also boasts a wonder
ful screenplay. Fisher brings tcul, . 
her writing a sincerity rare iniK 
movies this genuinely funny. Al- -( 
though the script is very witty, -jj 
even hilarious at times, it main-tfj! 
tains an underlying honesty ,/ 
which communicates clearly the-'; 
emotional intensity involved. it 
Postcards from the Edge is, puW 
simply, perfectly written and su-ws 
perbly acted. I recommend it with 
the highest praise.
Graduating Engineers / Technical Majors
Want a Real Job?
Start your search at the
Corporate Exposition
Wednesday, September 26 
10:00 am to 4:00 pm 
University of Pittsburgh William Pitt Union Assembly Room
(Orange brick building across the street from the Cathedral of Learning)
Over 30 companies will be in attendance looking for graduating seniors to discuss career 
opportunities as well as co-op opportunities and summer internships for sophomores 
and juniors. Dont start the job search without attending this informative event!
Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh Engineering Student Council
Pizza Outlet
Free Delivery
190 N. Craifi 687!
fik    (Across from 
9 W W W Gulf Station)
OPEN 7 DAYS Sun-Thurs llam-lam Fri & Sat llam-2am
2 PIZZAS $5.99
4% Medium Aft 
^ Pizzas ^
No Coupon Necessary2S $9-99
For Limited Time Only
OUR DOUGH IS MADE FRESH DAILY
Wilders latest film 
misses the mark
Duffy Bergman (Gene Wilder) admires the billboard for his latest musical in Funny About Love. .jo
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Tartan Staffwriter
Normally, when a sitcom 
storyline is gracelessly smeared 
across an hour and a half and 
released as a feature motion pic
ture, its easy to take offense. 
There is an exception this fall  
behold Paramounts upcoming 
Gene Wilder comedy, Funny 
About Love.
One is skeptical at the films 
lukewarm outset, and justifiably 
so. Yes, this is Gene Wilder from 
Blazing Saddles and Young 
Frankenstein, but this is also Gene 
Wilder from See No Evil, Hear No 
Evil, and the prospect of him 
discarding his trademark demure 
eccentricity and taking on the role 
of a flippant political cartoonist 
more tailored to a Robin Williams 
persona evokes a certain tense 
caution in the moviegoer.
More sobering still is the fact 
that the films plot revolves 
around the inherently droll topic 
of sexual dysfunction. Despite
 Movie Review 
??V:2 FUNNY ABOUT LOVE. A
successful New York cartoonist and 
playwright attempts to combat his 
biological clock and have a baby 
before it goes off. Starring Gene 
Wilder, Christine Lahti, and Mary 
Stuart Masterson. Directed by 
Leonard Nimoy.
this, it somehow works, owing 
more to the direction and scat
tered gems of witty remarks than 
the storyline.
The movie has us endure a rou
tine multiple-relationship docu
mentary, something like The Ac
cidental Tourist drained of sub
stance and tossed into a Manhat
tan context. As a compensatory 
bonus, we get some bona fide 
drama about the inability of pro
tagonist Duffy Bergman (Wilder) 
and his spouse to bear offspring. 
He descends into turbulent anxi
ety, drives off his wife, toys with a 
second relationship, comes to
terms with his feelings of inad
equacy, reunites with his wife, 
and inadvertently lives happily 
ever after. Standard stuff.
It is attention to detail and ex
cellence of direction that makes 
the movie viably humorous. Tick
lish amusement is weaved into 
nearly every aspect of a trying 
existence, from Duffys attempts 
to seek medical help for his wife, 
to the death of his mother under a 
falling crate. (Which gives rise to 
one of the best lines in the movie, 
which I shall now ruin for you all: 
in response to his fathers funeral 
comment that his mother died as 
she lived, Duffy responds, Yeah, 
like Wile E. Coyote.) There isnt 
any one aspect of this movie that 
warrants your attention, let alone 
your money, but the combined 
effect of dozens of delightful trifles 
send you home with a dim glow of 
amused contentedness.
The acting is also unduly highquality. Wilder, as said, assimi
lates his role well, and Christine 
Lahti is equally convincing as his
lamenting wife. The Oscar, how
ever, goes to Mary Stuart 
Masterson, whose portrayal of 
Duffys pecky young fling so reeks 
of authentic New York quirkiness
that one is compelled to glance at 
her bio on the press release and 
discover that its genuine.
Funny About Love is middle
weight drama laced with warm
wit, but bereft of any purpose or';;: 
motivation. This is a good movier" 
to see when you need a pretext for, ^ 
a social outgoing, but is otherwise'^ 
strictly VCR fare.
Postcards delivers  first-class
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Postcards from the Edge may be 
the best movie of the year so far. 
Although many factors contrib
ute to its success, it benefits most 
from a witty and insightful 
screenplay by Carrie Fisher based 
on her semi-autobiographical 
novel of the same name and a 
talented cast of big name actors 
and actresses who play cameo 
roles with the same degree of ac
curacy required of the leads.
The story involves a rocky lovehate relationship between a 
young, second generation Holly
wood actress, Suzanne Vale 
(played by Meryl Streep), and her 
mother, aging Hollywood sweet
heart Doris Mann (portrayed by 
Shirley MacLaine). Although 
Streep is a tad old to be cast in her 
role, she plays the part with such 
poignancy that her age seems to 
matter not nearly as much as 
Suzannes plight.
At the start of the movie, Suzy 
is working on a film with a virtual
RESEARCH PAPERS18^00 to chooie from - all subjects Order Catalog Today with Visa/MC or COD
In Calif. (213) 477-8226 Or, rush 52.00 to: Research Assistance 11322 Idaho Avc. W206-SN Leo Angclc, CA 90025 Custcn research available- all level
CHORUS LINE, from page Lll? Greg Stuhr and Ashley Cruz 
are adorable as the shows only 
marrieds. Cruz hams it up to 
; great effect as the chronically 
1. nervous Kristine, while Stuhr, as 
I Al, also brings on laughs as he 
* tries to get his wife through this 
traumatic afternoon. The duo 
have one song together in which 
!. they warn Zach that Kristine is 
not even tolerable as a singer. 
Cruz also has a hysterical scene 
in which she tries to take Zachs 
advice and just relax while she 
tap dances.
Perhaps the biggest surprise in 
this show is Tami Tappan as 
Diana. After singing a terrific 
rendition of Nothing, Dianas 
tale of a useless acting class she 
once had, she returns to bring 
down the house by singing What 
I Did For Love, backed by the 
i company.
The entire cast has to be cred
ited for their endurance. This is 
definitely one of the most aerobic 
musicals around. Not only do the 
actors have to constantly run 
around the stage performing 
various dance combinations and 
switching places at Zach's de-^ 
mand, but often they have to keep 
n singing while doing it. Some 
actors have specific stunts they 
nave to perform, like the cart
wheel and back flip executed by 
Kubiatawicz.
DeLuca has created a superb 
Production within the confines of 
Kresge. Both the choreography
and the direction were inspired 
and fun. Set Designer Anthony 
Dawson-Ellis came up with a cre
ative set design so that the back 
walls rotate to be either a long 
mirror, a plain wall, or a glittery 
collage for the finale. Giant mir
rors are also lowered from the 
ceiling for the number The Mu
sic and the Mirror.
Now that A Chorus Line has 
closed on Broadway, the only way 
to see it is through touring com
panies and local productions. You 
couldnt ask for a better opportu
nity to see this show than having 
the convenience of Kresge com
bined with the limitless talents of 
these actors.
You can forgive the seventies 
for its long side-bums and earth 
shoes; A Chorus Line proves that 
at times, even the seventies could 
be tasteful.
A Chorus Line will run until 
October 6. The show plays Tues
days to Saturdays at 8 pm plus a 
Saturday matinee at 2 pm. For 
ticket information call the box of
fice at 268-2407.
It brings out the best inallofusi
1990 Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc. 
Suzanne Vale (Meryl Streep) belts out a tune in Postcards.
A Chorus Line lives on 
in the Kresge Theatre

---------------------------------------------------

LI 4
 g------qbe qygtys * uygse!he )ellrs * SL TeatevPeg cdd6
Man-eating baboons 
assault the Drive-In
The Japaheenio geniuses at
- Mitsubishi invented a doohickey 
to put on your VCR so that every 
time a commercial comes on, the 
tape stops recording. Do you belieye this?
Its true. It has some kind of 
bullstuff detector on there, a tiny 
microchip home-video brain, that 
goes Whoa! Hold on there! AquaVelva this, how about it! and then 
. it zaps the commercial into eter
nal darkness. Any time it hears 
the voice of Wilford Brimley 
, talking about oat bran, the special 
. Windbag Indicator goes off the 
scale, and the tape jolts to a stop. 
If Richard Simmons starts slap-' ping his thighs together while a
1 Neal Sedaka song is playing, the 
" special Weasel-Voiced 800- 
" Number Alarm screams into ac' tion, and the tapejerks to Pause. 
You can use this thing to tape 
an NFL football game, only to 
discover that NFL games are only 
45 minutes long. The other three 
' hours is. John Madden growing 
,r fatter by the second in an Ace 
Hardware store.
, ? Only one problem, though: This 
r, thing doesnt have a snowballs 
' chance in hell of ever being sold in 
the Newnited States, and you 
know why?
\ Because, as soon as they introJOE BOB GOES TO THE 
DRIVE IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
duced it in Japan, the TV net
works started zapping their own 
signals with electronic fuzz to 
confuse the machine. They would 
send weird electronic messages, 
down at the double sub-woofer 
level, that told the machine things 
like, Hey, this may sound like a 
Subaru commercial, but its re
ally Laurence Olivier doing 
Hamlet. And so the machine 
doesnt shut off. It was an espio
nage thing, like in Nazi Germany, 
when they jammed our radio sig
nals all night long.
Because the machine was too 
honest.
Because the machine revealed 
what everybody knows except 
people in the TV businessthat 
we all hate commercials.
We dont care if theyre cute. We 
dont care if theyre funny. We
Diversions 
needs you!
Tonight, 8:30, The Tartan 
Office, Be there!
dont care if Michael Jordan is in 
em. Even when we like the com
mercial, its sorta like appreciat
ing a turkey dinner when youre 
in prison. If you had a choice, you 
wouldnt be eating it, but as long 
as you have to eat it, then you cheer 
when its a little bit better than a 
Spam dinner.
Youre not supposed to admit 
this. Thats why they dont use 
the word commercial on TV 
anymore. During football games, 
they have an official timeout or 
a timeout on the field. These are 
both lies. An official timeout is 
called by the official. These 
timeouts are called by the pro
ducer of the TV show. And a 
timeout on the field is called on the 
field. These are called from the 
truck, the portable bunker where 
the producer is sitting. Why do 
they keep saying this? Why dont 
they say a TV timeout?
Because theydon't wanna be 
responsible. They know theyre 
getting away with something, but 
they cant quite bring themselves 
to admit it.
When you watch a cop show on 
TV, you ever notice how, right 
before the first commercial, the 
star of the show always gets shot 
at or chased or tied up or drugged 
or introduced to his long-lost or
phan son? You ever think about 
why this is?
Its because its too early in the 
story to have a commercial. If 
they were telling the story in a 
normal way, you would need five 
or ten more minutes to set up all 
the characters and situations. But 
the commercial determines what 
the story is. Because, if you dont 
have something dramatic happen 
before youre hooked, then as 
soon as the commercial comes on,
Graduating Engineers / Technical Majors
Want a Real Job?
Start your search at the
Corporate Exposition
Wednesday, September 26 
10:00 am to 4:00 pm 
University of Pittsburgh William Pitt Union Assembly Room
(Orange brick building across the street from the Cathedral of Learning)
Over 30 companies will be in attendance looking for graduating seniors to discuss career 
opportunities as well as co-op opportunities and summer internships for sophomores 
and juniors. Dont start the job search without attending this informative event!
Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh Engineering Student Council
The world is waiting. 
Be an exchange student
Step into an adventure filled with opportunities and chal
lenges. As part of International Youth Exchange, a Presidential 
Initiative for peace, you live abroad with your new host family. 
Learn new skills. Go to new schools. Make new friends.
Ifoung people from all segments of American society are 
being selected. If youd like to be one of them, write for more 
information on programs, costs and financial aid.
Help bring the world together, one friendship at a time.
!A message from The Advertising Council and The International Youth Exchange.
Killer attack baboon, shown here pouncing on Its deadliest enemy, the Panavislon camera, in Shakma.
youll switch to the other network.
They know this. They just dont 
admit this. Even to themselves. 
The producers dont admit it. The 
writers dont admit it. The sportscasters, weenies among weenies, 
sure dont admit it. Its the great 
secret that all of us already know, 
but they apparently think we do 
not know.
Are you following this?
Commercial zapper on your 
VCR? Dream on.
Theyll send machine-gun 
squads to your house first.
Speaking of hairy-ape behav
ior, Shakma is this weeks movie, 
and for a good reason: millions of 
people have written in to ask, 
Joe Bob, when are you gonna 
have another killer-baboonflick? 
There hasnt really been a decent 
one since In the Shadow of 
Kilimanjaro, starring Timothy 
Bottoms, the first movie to actu
ally reveal, in closeup, Timothys 
bottom  but Im getting off the
subject. In the Shadow of 
Kilimanjaro was a multiple-baboon flick. They had baboon 
stampedes in that movie. The ba
boons would wait by the side of 
the road and attack passing 
pickup trucks. But Shakma is the 
story of one baboon, acting alone. 
Thats what makes it special.
Professor Roddy McDowall 
juices up a baboon with brain 
serum so hell be calmer, but  
whoops!  he makes a mistake 
andinsteadofinjectingthe calm 
serum, he injects the serum that 
turns him into a raging maniac 
throat-chewing Jason Baboon. 
And all the rest of the movie is the 
story of Shakma the Baboon eat
ing all the occupants of an office 
building. Sometimes they use a 
special Baboon-Cam, where you 
get to see the frightened victims 
as a baboon sees them right be
fore he rips their throats out. But 
there was something even more 
disgusting than that:
The baboon fails to eat Chris
topher Atkins.
This is sort of Gorillas in the Mist 
in reverse.
No breasts. Six dead bodies. 
Open-brain surgery. Baboon fur
niture-bashing. Syringe-on-astick. Throat-ripping. Roddy 
McDowall baboon dinner. Hydro
chloric acid Fu. Drive-In Acad
emy Award nominations for 
Amanda Wyss, for the screamy 
trembly Jamie Lee Curtis-type 
gal, for saying You are sooooo 
male; Christopher Atkins, for 
being attacked by the baboon and 
wrestling around on the floor with 
a giant ragmop; and Typhoon the 
Baboon, in the title role, for being 
a better actor than Jason.
Two and a half stars. Joe Bob 
says check it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only movie critic of Grapevine, 
Texas and loves killer-baboon 
flicks.
WANTED: COMPUTER WHIZ
junior...senior...or group of programmers supreme 
GOAL: TO START FROM GROUND ZERO AND PUT IN 
PLACE PROGRAMMING TO MAKE OUR CONCEPTS WORK
YOUR CHOICE: create new programming.. .adapt existing software.. .or a 
combination of the two to implement our concepts 
locally and then on a national level
WHO ARE WE? We are singles with an exciting new philosophy and dynamic 
concepts for meeting and searching for the right one."
CALL: Charley at 364-4764 of Christine at 364-5812
21st Century
INTRODUCTIONS & EXPERIENCES
P.O. Box 708  Ingomar, Pennsylvania 15127
We bring you tomorrow..................today!
Walk - in TiriorhK*
Sund^ through Thursday 8-llpm
CalculusWeH5403
PhysicsWeH5427
ChemistiyWeH5205
Academic WritingWeH5205
Intro to ComputingWeH5415
llic Right Place To Turn

---------------------------------------------------

qbe qygtys * uygse!he )ellrs * SL TeatevPeg cdd6Kc.
Thursday, September 27
And Now For Something 
Completely Different
A compilation of sketches from Monty Pythons 
Flying Circus, restaged, filmed and edited so as to 
purge them of all of the spark which made them 
great. Anyone who feels even the slightest fondness 
for the television show should avoid this film like a 
dose of clap. The sketches lack the rough, manic 
energy from their television counterparts and the 
cartoons which link them look flat and uninspired. 
Watching Arad Now For Something Completely Dif
ferent is like hearing a good joke told badly. Rent the 
videotapes of the show instead.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, September 28
The Little Mermaidi
Sure, its a recycled Hans Christian Andersen 
yarn, but its Disney and will therefore deluge your 
eyes with tears and send your pulse into a staccato 
drumroll. The story is about a red-haired mermaid 
who swoons for a landlubber and subsequently nego
tiates with an evil witch for permanent shore leave, 
much to the ire of her father, who happens to be a 
minor sea deity. The music ranges from sappy to 
uplifting, but always has a wry undertow of humor. 
The animation alone is worth your dollar. See it!
At 6, 8,10,12
i-------r
1989 Tri-Star Pictures, Inc.
Matthew Broderick leads his men through murderous artillery fire 
as the 54th Regiment spearheads the attack against the 
Confederate-held Fort Wagner in Glory.
Saturday, September 29
Glory
Filled with powerful images, spectacular music, 
and great acting, Glory is by far one of the best Civil 
War movies ever made  and one of the best movies 
of all time.
The story centers around Matthew Broderick as 
Colonel Robert Gould Shaw, and the men he com
mands, the 54th Regiment of Massachusetts Volun
teer Infantry, the first black fighting unit to be 
raised in the North during the Civil War. In addition 
to the horrors of war, Broderick and his men have to 
endure the weights of prejudice and discrimination. 
However, the 54th rises far above these obstacles 
and proves itself to be one of the most respected, and 
deadly, fighting units in the Norths arsenal.
Even if you failed history and couldnt care less 
about the Civil War, go see this movie.
At 6, 8:30,12
Sunday, September 30
Psycho
Dear Norman,
Please set out some clean towels and sheets for the 
guests and dont forget to tell those nice kiddies at 
CMU about Psycho, Alfred Hitchcocks classic tale of 
a lovely young lady embezzler who finds her way to 
the Bates Motel, where the guests check in but they 
dont check out. Itll be the perfect start to the 
Sunday night horror flicks for the weeks ahead.
Oh, and stop talking to yourself!
Love, Mother.
At 6, 8,10,12
By STEPHEN GLICKER, JAVIER GRILLOMARXUACH, MICHAEL SCHWARTZ, and MffiE SHAPIRO
A summary of upcoming episodes 
of Carnegie Mellons favorite TV 
shows.
Regular Network Programs
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Sam convinces 
Kevin McHale to play in the annual 
basketball game against Gary's 
Tavern  as long as the winnings 
go to charity.
DOCTOR, DOCTOR. Wednes
day at 8:30 pm, channel 2 (CBS). A 
mystery novel turns into a real-life 
murder, and Mike may be an ac
complice.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Doogie becomes famous 
when he agrees to do some publicservice spots on the music channel.
LA. LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC).Notbeingshown 
this week due to the airing of The 
Tonight Shows' 28th Anniversary 
Special.
MURPHY BROWN. Monday at 
9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). Murphy has 
problems keeping calm while inter
viewing sexist shock-comic Tony 
Rocket.
QUANTUM LEAP. Friday at 8 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). In the thirdseason opener, Sam is an Indiana 
farm boy who must do something to 
change the sad fate of his family.
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 
8 pm, channel 53 (Fox). Krusty the 
Clown, Barts favorite TV person
ality, commits a robbery  and 
Homer sees the whole thing. (Re
peat)
THIRTYSOMETHING. Tues
day at 10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). The 
fourth season begins with a new 
arrival in the Steadman family and 
a new boyfriend for Michaels 
mother.
TWIN PEAKS. Saturday at 10 
pm, channel 4 (ABC). Not being 
shown this week due to Cop Rock.
THE WONDER YEARS.
Wednesday at, 8 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Kevin enters ninth grade 
with head held high  until real
ity, in the form of shop class, sets in.
New Shows
COP ROCK. Saturday at 10 pm, 
channel 4 (ABC). Stephen Bochco 
extends the barriers of primetime 
with this musical/police drama 
which has been described as Hill 
Street Blues meets West Side Story. 
Barbara Bosson and Ronny Cox 
star.
THE FLASH. Thursday at 8:30 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). Barry must 
become the Flash to fight a killer 
that is murdering and disfiguring 
the citys homeless.
MY TALK SHOW. MondayFriday at 12 midnight, channel 53 
(WPGH). Cynthia Stevenson plays 
Jennifer Bass, whose local Wiscon
sin talk show has suddenly and 
unexplainably gone national. A 
parody of celebrity talk shows, but 
with real celebrities (reminiscent 
of Martin Mulls Fernwood 2Night).
SUPER FORCE. Wednesday at
8 pm, channel 22 (WPTT). Set in 
the future, this adventure follows 
Zachary Stone (Ken Olandt), a na
tional hero who decides to join the 
police and help rid the Earth of 
crime.
TINY TOON ADVENTURES.
Monday-Friday at 4:30 pm, chan
nel 53 (WPGH). New Warner Bros, 
cartoons (produced by Steven 
Spielberg) featuring the young 
relatives of the old Looney Toons 
heroes. Characters include Buster 
and Babs Bunny, Plucky Duck, 
Hamton J. Pig, and Montana Max.
THE TRIALS OF ROSIE 
ONEILL. Monday at 10 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). Rosie defends a 
rapist that faces acquittal when it 
is discovered that prosecution evi
dence may have been planted by
the police. Starring Sharon Gless of 
Cagney and Lacey fame.
Special Programs 
CASEYS GIFT: FOR LOVE OF 
A CHILD. Monday at 9 pm, chan
nel 11 (NBC). The friendship be
tween two families is jeopardized 
when the son of one family drowns 
in the swimming pool of the other. 
Starring Michael Tucker and Kevin 
Dobson.
CBS NEWS SPECIAL: MIKE 
WALLACE, THEN & NOW.
Wednesday at 10 pm, channel 2 
(CBS). A retrospective look at the 
60 Minutes newsmans 40-year ca
reer. Highlights include interviews 
with Golda Meir, Anwar Sadat, 
Yasir Arafat, the shah of Iran, and 
Malcolm X.
GOOD NIGHT, SWEET WIFE: 
A MURDER IN BOSTON. Tues
day at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). You 
knew it was coming: a dramatiza
tion of the bizarre Stuart murder 
case in Boston and the racial ten
sion that arose from it. Starring 
Ken Olin, Margaret Colin, and 
Annabella Price.
MURPHYS ROMANCE. Tues
day at 8 pm, channel 53 (WPGH). A 
small-town romance between a 
pharmacist and a divorcee. Star
ring James Gamer, Sally Field, 
Corey Haim, and Bobby Kerwin.
TONIGHT SHOWS 28TH AN
NIVERSARY. Thursday at 9:30 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). Johnny, Ed, 
and the gang look at the past 
twenty-eight years with mucho 
highlights, including chats with 
Don Rickies, Bob Newhart, Ma
donna, Dana Carvey, and Deborah 
Norville.
Gable Programs
ANATOMY OF A MURDER.
Monday at 5 pm and Thursday at 
12:30 pm, HBO. Story of an Army 
officer on trial for a small-town
murder. Starring James Stewart, 
Lee Remick, Ben Gazzara, Arthur 
OConnell, and George C. Scott.
MIRACLE MILE. Thursday at
9 pm on Cinemax. Two lovers es
cape to Antartica when nuclear ho
locaust threatens. Starring An
thony Edwards and Mare 
Winningham.
MOONLIGHTING. Wednesday 
at 4 pm on Lifetime. The original 2- 
hour premiere movie of the suc
cessful series. An ex-fashion model 
teams up with a smart-aleck de
tective who cant get clients. To
gether they keep the Blue Moon 
Detective Agency alive  but not 
always busy. Starring Cybill Shep
herd and Bruce Willis.
PERMANENT RECORD. Wed
nesday at 8 am on HBO. The friends 
of a musically gifted high school 
student must come to terms with 
his suicide. Starring Alan Boyce 
and Keanu Reeves.
PHYSICAL EVIDENCE. Mon
day at 8 pm on HBO. A lawyer 
defends a policeman for a murder 
charge and becomes too involved in 
the case  so much so it becomes 
life-threatening. Starring Burt 
Reynolds and Theresa Russell.
STIR CRAZY. Wednesday at 8 
pm on Cinemax. A 1980 comedy 
starring Gene Wilder and Richard 
Pryor as two New Yorkers sen
tenced to life in prison for a crime 
they didnt commit. They spend 
their time attempting to cope while 
they plan to escape.
SUMMER SCHOOL. Saturday 
at 7 pm on The Movie Channel. A 
high school gym instructor (Mark-, 
Harmon) forced into working dur
ing the summer uses a wide variety 
of bizarre teaching methods to al
leviate the boredom.,
Compiled by 
ANDY WHEELER
& DAWN BROSONSKI
- 
! .i ltf?
%
People bring our 
world together.
Applied Materials is the worlds largest indepen
dent supplier of wafer fabrication equipment and related 
products, with offices spanning from Narita, Japan to 
Santa Clara, California. Our enormous success is due to 
sound business decisions, leading edge technology, and 
quality people.
Join us for our company presentation or on-campus 
interviews. Opportunities are available for students 
graduating with a degree in one of the following majors: 
Chemical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Materials 
Science or Mechanical Engineering.
Be sure to check the dates and times listed below. 
No matter what your area of interest, you can be assured 
youll get the most out of your career by joining a grow
ing, global company.
Presentations will be held on:
Thursday, October 4,1990 
7:00 - 9:00 P.M.
Skibo Room #13
On-Campus Interview Dates:
Friday, October 5 1990 
8:30 A.M.-4:30 P.M.
Career Placement Center
If you are unable to attend the presentation or inter
view session, send your resume to College Relations, 
Applied Materials, Inc., 3050 Bowers Ave., Santa Clara, 
CA 95054-3299. We are an equal opportunity employer.
APPLIED MATERIALS

---------------------------------------------------

/NER
m
[ Theatre
dor, will be on display at the Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers Gallery in Oakland through 
Friday. Call 681-5449 for more informa
tion.
Black Southern Visionary Art, a colPsycho will play Sunday at 6,8,10, and 
midnight in DH 2210. Admission is $1. 
Sponsored by AB.
The Magic Flute, the Ingmar Bergman 
film version of a romantic Swedish opera
Scotch NT Soda presents its first fall 
play, Don't Let the Bed Bugs Bite, this 
Sunday at 7 and 8:30 pm in the Wherrett 
Room. Free admission.
Lanford Wilsons Rimers of Eldritch
will be performed by the Acting Com
pany of LHRT at 8 pm this week through 
Saturday and at 4 pm Sunday. Tickets 
are $7, or $5 for students and senior 
citizens. In Lawrenceville at 91 
McCandless Avenue. Call 781-9198 for 
ticket information.
Damn Yankees will be performed by 
the McKeesport Little Theatre at 8 pm 
from now until October 7 Fridays through 
Sundays. Call 673-1100 for more infor
mation.
Son of Forbidden Pittsburgh will be 
performed at the Green Tree Marriotts 
Theatre on the Green from now until 
October 6, Thursdays through Satur
days. The show begins at 8:30 pm. Call 
922-8400 for more information.
The Night of the Iguana, a Tennessee 
Williams classic, will be performed at 
the Pittsburgh Public Theatre from 
Thursday until November 4 in Allegheny 
Square, Northside. Call 321-9800 for 
showtimes and ticket information.
lection of highly colorful and non-traditional work, will be on display through 
Sunday at the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts at Fifth and Shady Avenues, Tues
day through Saturday 10 am to 5 pm, 
Sunday 1 to 5 pm.
Dinosaurs Alive! An exhibit of ani
mated dinosaurs returns to the Carnegie 
Museum from now until October 28. 
Tickets: $6 for adults, $3 for students 
with IDs. For tickets, call 622-6500. 
Museum hours: Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Saturday 10 am to 5 pm; 
Friday 10 am to 9 pm; Sunday 1 to 5 pm.
Hetzel to Parcell: Eighty Years of 
Pittsburgh Painters will be on display 
at the Carson Street Gallery now through 
Saturday. Gallery hours: Monday to Sat
urday 10 am to 6 pm, Friday 10 am to 10 
pm. Call 481-8880 for more information.
Architectural Brochures: History, 
Hype, and Graphic Design, an exhibit 
of architectural promotional materials 
from the Pittsburgh region, will be dis
played from now until November. This 
display, dating from the 1890s to the 
present, will be on the 4th floor of the 
Hunt Library.
Shared Histories/Common Ground,
a collection of contemporary petroglyphs 
from the Canal National Heritage CorriChamber Music at Rodef Shalom 
Temple. Dvoraks Viola Quintet in Eflat Major will be played by Stephen 
Starkman and friends today. Call 621- 
6556 for more information.
The Shady side Balcony on Walnut 
Street presents the best of Pittsburgh 
jazz: the Balcony Big Band will perform 
tonight, the Claudia Recchio Trio tomor
row, and the Billy Price Band on 
Wednesday. Call 687-0110 for more in
formation.
The Katydids will perform at Metropol 
tomorrow for a special benefit perfor
mance; the $3 admission charge will go 
to the Big Brothers and Sisters of Penn
sylvania. The door opens at 8 pm, and 
the show starts at 8:30. Call 261-4512 for 
more information.
The Circle Jerks and The Weirdos
will perform at Graffiti tomorrow. Call 
682-8296 for more information.
2 Live Crew is coming to Pittsburgh 
this Thursday for two shows at 7:30 and
10 pm. At Illusions, the Fulton Building, 
Downtown. Call 338-0100 for ticket in
formation.
A.T.S. will perform Saturday at 10 pm in 
the Evergreen Hotel in North Hills, at 
the comer of Babcock Boulevard and 
Evergreen Road.
Joyce Moon Strobel, organist at St. 
Stephen Lutheran Church, Scott Town
ship, will play Johann Sebastian Bachs 
Dorian Prelude and Fugue Sunday at 
9:30 pm in the Lutheran University Cen
ter on Forbes Avenue. Call 682-6886 for 
more information.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orches
tra will perform Brahms Serenade No. 
2 and Rachmaninovs Piano Concerto 
No. 3 Thursday and Saturday at 8 pm 
and Sunday at 2:30 pm in Heinz Hall. 
Tickets range from $12.65 to $34.10. To 
charge tickets by phone, call 392-4900.
Vixen, with special guest The Electric 
Boys, will perform at Metropol next 
Tuesday at 7:30 pm.
The 22nd International Tournee of 
Animation, a brand-new compilation of 
18 animations from around the world, 
plays at the Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 
and 9:15 pm all this week, with addi
tional 11:30 pm showings Friday and 
Saturday. The tournee includes Bal
ance, the 1989 winner of the Academy 
Award for Best Animated Short. Ad
mission is $4.
Attack of the Killer Tomatoes, a
horror flick in which tomatoes invade 
San Diego, plays at the Pittsburgh Play
house tonight at 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Ad
mission is $3.
The Dybbuk, part of the Yiddish Film 
Classics series, plays at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art Theatre in Oakland to
night at 8 pm. Call 622-3212 for more 
information.
Danton, a film about the last days of the 
French Revolution, will play at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse tomorrow at 7:30 and 
9:50 pm. Admission is $3.
Rebel Without a Cause, a movie about 
a troubled teen (James Dean) who rebels 
against his middle-class environment, 
will play at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Wednesday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Also 
starring Natalie Wood. Admission is $3.
And Now for Something Completely 
Different will play Thursday at 6, 8, 
and 10 pm in DH 2210. Admission is $1. 
Sponsored by AB.
East of Eden, an adaptation of 
Steinbecks novel about two brothers 
rivalry for their fathers love, will play at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse Thursday at 
7:30 and 9:30 pm. Admission is $3.
The Little Mermaid will play Friday at
6, 8,10, and midnight in DH 2210. Ad
mission is $1. Sponsored by AB.
Gremlins 2: The New Batch, where the 
Gremlins terrorize Trump Tower, will 
play at the Pittsburgh Playhouse Friday 
at 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Admission is $3.
Glory will play Saturday at 6,8:30, and 
midnight in DH 2210. Admission is $1. 
Sponsored by SDC.
Dead Poets Society, starring Robin 
Williams as a flamboyant English teacher 
in a conservative boys school in 1959, 
will play at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Saturday at 7:30 and 9:40 pm. Admis
sion is $3.
May Fools will be shown through 
Thursday at the Pittsburgh Filmmak
ers, Downtown. Call 471-9700 for more 
information.
written by Mozart, will play at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse Sunday at 7:30. Ad
mission is $3.
The Pittsburgh Pirates vs. the Chi
cago Cubs. Watch the Bucs race for the 
pennant tomorrow, Wednesday, and 
Thursday at 7:35 pm. Call 321-BUCS or 
1-800-BUY-BUCS for ticket information.
Mens Soccer will compete against 
Washington & Jefferson College 
Wednesday at 7:30 pm and Brandeis 
University Sunday at 1:30 pm. On 
Gesling Field.
Mens Cross Country takes on Geneva 
College Saturday at 11 am. In Schenley 
Park.
The School of Computer Sciences 
25th Anniversary Open House will be 
held all day Thursday. The event will 
celebrate the silver anniversary of the 
founding of the Computer Science De
partment in 1965. The lectures and dem
onstrations are open to the public and 
the department welcomes the participa
tion of CMU students and faculty. For 
more information, call Jim Tomayko at 
x6806.
Surviving and Thriving as a Woman 
or Minority at CMU, part two of the 
1990-91 Graduate Student Luncheon 
Seminar Series, will be held today at 
12:30 pm in Hamburg Hall 1001. Register 
by email to jh5j@andrew or call x3356.
Reverend Norbert Gaughan, Bishop 
of Gary, Indiana, will speak on John 
Henry Cardinal Newman and the Laity 
at 7:30 pm on Wednesday in Heinz 
Chapel. Sponsored by the Roman Catho
lic Oratory. For more information, call 
681-3181.
The CMU Crew Team will be compet- Lea Tsemel will speak on The Gulf 
ing in the Head of the Ohio Regatta this Crisis and The Question of Palestine: 
Saturday on the Allegheny River near An Israeli Point of View Thursday at 8 
the Point. CMU students wishing to cheer pm in the Wherrett Room. Sponsored by 
the crew should watch from the banks of the Political Speakers Forum Board, 
the river in Roberto Clemente Park.
The Pittsburgh Steelers vs. the Mi
ami Dolphins. Sunday at 1 pm in Three 
Rivers Stadium. Game will be shown on 
NBC, Channel 11.
Pittsburghs Great 10 Kilometer 
Race starts this Sunday at 9 am in 
Highland Park and finishes at the Point.
Womens Volleyball will play Grove 
City College next Monday at 6 pm. In the 
Skibo Gym.
Eucharist, at 11:15 am Sunday in the 
Lutheran University Center. Contact 
Ruth Degenkolb at 682-6886 for more 
information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory cel
ebrates Mass on campus every, weekend,
7 pm Saturday night and 10:30 am 
Sunday morning in the GSIA Audito
rium. A solemn Sunday Mass is cel
ebrated at noon Sundays in Heinz 
Chapel. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 
pm in Carnegie Mellons Chapel (Skibo 
39). For more information, call The 
Oratory at 681-3181.
Casino Night at Alpha Epsilon Pi to
night at 8 pm. In Margaret Morrison 
Apartments 131, behind the sororities.
Find out about Occupational 
Therapy, a career that rewards you by 
helping others and allows you to be cre
ative and have fun. To learn more, at
tend a gathering in the lower lobby of the 
William Pitt Student Union next Friday, 
October 5, from 10 am to 2 pm. Contact 
Maria Monaco at 481-9347 for more in
formation.
Walk-in tutoring will be available for 
students needing help in physics, calcu
lus, chemistry, academic writing, or in
troductory computing from now until 
the beginning of finals. Call x2922 for 
more information.
.ifW.W.F. Championship Wrestling.
Friday at 8 pm in the Civic Arena. High
lights include Big Boss Man vs. Earth
quake, Jakee the Snake Roberts vs. Bad 
News Brown, Dusty Rhodes vs. the Mil
lion Dollar Man, the Bushwhackers vs. 
the Orient Express, and more. Tickets 
are $9, $10, or $13.
Vox Populi is limited, in space, 
so please make sure that your 
submissions are less than fifty 
words. The Tartan reserves 
the right to edit or withhold 
entries, and difficult or spacewasting formats will be 
altered. Thanks.
Su-naa-gu-ru-baa-ni,
Donata deska? Oshiete 
kurasai.
Not De-bi-do kun
Hey -1 hear they have a 
really good womens 
basketball team here.
I have a little Devil, I am a 
little Scrooge, and Im stupid.
Whats your number?
Desperate
Joe must go!!!!
Ray and Ed
Hawk,
So did you show everyone 
what a fuck Mr. Stress is?
Admiral Rusty
Westley,
I nose you will be smiling 
when you read this.
What do you think the heat 
transfer flux over the surface 
of this bread is?
Always remember, go for the 
wall!
rYn
would you like to play a game? 
Sean,
When the damn Pumpkin Girl 
says, humph, just kick her.
Love gallons, your lover.
Do not fear the Mech E. Happy 
Hour!
bondo
John,
I can smell your feet from here.
Your roommate.
Ive got something shocking I 
can show you (said in an evil 
laboratory assistants voice)!
M.R.
Yes, Master.
It just doesnt matter ... I just 
dont understand ... (and 
now???)
B,
YUP!
B.W.
Jim, who are the ...
Their bodies pressed tight, flesh 
against flesh, and there was a soft 
wet sound as he slid his menudo 
into her frajata.
Hey Jef & Wally - 
Whats NEB spelled back
wards?
There are sure a lot of pathetic 
people at this school who are 
jd really insecure about their 
sexuality. All you have to do is 
read VOX POPULI. All losers.
Yo ... whats that noise?
Ed
Hey Kool-Aid!
Oh yeah!
Oh Shit!!!
Hey guys, lets just make sexual 
innuendoes about oral sex and 
anal sex. Now lets be idiots and 
send it to VOX POPULI. Yeah, 
dude, cool. You guys dont 
know anything about sex; 
actually, you probably dont 
know anything about life.
Pit,
How about another helping of 
those hush-puppies?
Tongue
Beerhead,
I have another bag of M&Ms 
for you, only theres one catch 
... theyre all tan.
Tongue
Cmon, Dan, hold it in, hold it 
in ...
Photosow to Dingle
Ed,
Happy 21st Birthday. Now 
you can TILT one and buy 
one.
Felice
Yo geeks!
Russell Clay Smith was born 9/ 
9/90 at 11:13 am. He weighed 8 
lbs, 7 oz, was 20.5 long, and 
does not want a cousin (yet)!
Its not my personality, its just 
the way I am. SAVE THE 
BRIDGE! (Cease the day!) Love 
yall!
That happening chick from Rice 
Justin,
So when was the date for Chick 
Corea again?
TCTBNL
Nick,
The world wouldnt have been 
as bad a place if them evange
lists hadnt forced them 
homosexuals to spread to 
Hawaii, New York, and 
Arizona.
Rusty
Sweet,
Major brownie points.
Clip
Will you make passionate love to 
me while Im chained to a stone 
wall?
Baron de Vries
So Mary B. and Smelly E.: What 
were you doing on that bunk 
bed when it fell?
Everyone has their niche and 
mine just happens to be the front 
page.
Ms. Power Hungry
Were seniors. Its Saturday 
night and were defrosting the 
freezer. It dont get any better 
than this.
Bam Bam, Stinky ... Mooch
Roach. Roach. Roach. Roach. 
Smash. Ant. The roach went 
under the toilet.
Gage, the drunken 
exterminator
The cans! Theyre after the 
cans! They hate the cans!
Navin Johnson
Wake up, hairy man.
Rabbit killer
Hell, even I think my party 
sucked.
Dingle
So where is the First Place 
Design trophy anyway...?
RitiVuti is back better than ever! 
Featuring: Gen on trumpet, Rob 
on alto sax, Paul on tenor sax, 
Karen on trombone, Jeff on 
guitar, Pete on bass, P.J. on 
piano, and Charlie on drums. 
Coming soon to a club near 
you?
To the CFA elevator graffiti 
artists:
You think youre such hot shit 
on a silver platter. Well, youre 
not. Youre just luke-warm 
diarrhea in a Dixie cup. Keep 
your lame-ass opinions to 
yourself and do something 
productive with your paint.
Ah, so you think your karate 
is pretty good? But still...
Buuuurrrrrrrrppppppp
Don!!!!
Pat,
Why do you put up with so 
much when there are so 
many of us whod kill to be 
in her place?
Happy Birthday, Heather.
Nicole
The only thing worse than 
living nearly three thousand 
miles away from your 
girlfriend is getting a long
distance collect call from her 
at three in the morning before 
the day of your first 8:30 
exam of the year to hear her 
say, Lets just be friends.
Killer Bunny
Ill put it in if Im desperate. 
Dingle to Photosow
Dingle. The other white meat.
