Volume 91, Issue 22Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190614 April 1997
Inside
Calendar...........................................................16
Classified..........................................................15
Comics................................................................10
Diversions...........................................................L8
Living..................................................................L2
Forum....................................................................6
Sports..................................................................13
Forum
Writer fights racism 
 see page 6
Living
Watch Carnival 97 reruns 
 see page LI
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Contributing Editor
THE TARTAN
Maria Glmenez/Tartan Photo Staff Andrew lYicuermott/1 artan contriDuting taitor
Carnival had exciting events like the African dance and theater (left), mud sliding (top), and the buggy races (bottom).
Academic Council 
rejects Senate plan
Must-see TV.
By MAUREEN McGRANAGHAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Student Senate submitted a proposal 
to the Academic Deans Council on April 
4 to give priority to double majors and 
minors in a standardized system of reg
istration. After reviewing the proposal, 
the Council decided last Friday to reject 
Senates recommendation in favor of the 
current plan, which suspends priority 
for double majors in all departments, 
starting in the spring of 1998.
Right now, we want to go with a 
system that gives priority to class and 
primary major because the data we have 
suggests that such a system will work, 
said Eric Grotzinger, associate dean of 
the Mellon College of Science. He em
phasized the School of Computer Sci
ence as a key example; SCS does not 
offer double majors priority in registra
tion, yet, as Grotzinger points out, all 
students who have declared a double 
major in computer science have been 
able to complete it.
He also notes that, according to the 
statistics from Spring 1997, only 11 per
cent of the student population has a 
double major, and of that 11 percent, the
majority are majoring in two closely 
related fields that have overlapping re
quirements. For instance, 44 electrical 
and computer engineering majors have 
declared a double major in computer 
science, and 42 engineering students 
are double majoring in engineering and 
public policy.
Students, however, have expressed 
concern over the changes in registra
tion, leading Student Body President 
Bryon Krug to draft the resolution that 
the Council considered. It became very 
apparent that students werent happy 
with the proposed changes, Krug said.
The proposal, which Krug submitted 
to the Senate for review and revision, 
supports the status quo, in which each 
department determines who receives 
priority. However, Student Senate also 
suggests their own priority system for 
the University because the new on-line 
registration requires some sort of stan
dardized method.
Their proposal gives double majors of 
any year second priority after all pri
mary majors. Minors would receive pri
ority within their class. We wanted to 
show that we understand the rationale 
Please see MAJORS, page 3
THE ARANRca demiC doc unColoAr
GSA members consider administrative intervention
By JAYA SAXENA
Tartan Staffwriter
Student Senate rejected a proposal to 
establish the Graduate Student Assem
bly (GSA) as the principal representa
tive body for CMU graduate students 
on April 3. The Proposal for a New
GSA the official governing body for 
graduates.
GSA supporters, unhappy with the 
proposals rejection, are now consider
ing administrative intervention as a 
means to attain autonomy. This would 
force Senate to resolve the conflict, how
ever it threatens student sovereignty.
"The option of administrative intervention is 
a very viable option. We will proceed with 
that if we really need to."
 Jay Shankavaram, GSA President
System of Graduate Student Represen
tation would have made Senate the 
official representative for undergradu
ates rather than for all students, and
The proposals failure to pass Senate 
after GSA unanimously approved it on 
April 2, has stirred dissatisfaction 
among committee members and repre
sentatives. I have heard a significant 
amount of disappointment over the reso
lution not being passed, said Michael 
Murphy, dean of Student Affairs.
We were shocked and surprised af
ter so much hard work, time, and com
mitment. We thought this decision was 
counterproductive, said Jay 
Shankavaram, GSA president and a 
PhD student in the Department of Ar
chitecture.
The proposal could be reconsidered 
on April 15 but if it fails a second time, 
it would not be brought up for about 
another two to three weeks when the 
next Senate session begins its term.
The topic of graduate and under
graduate shared or distinct governance 
has been an issue on the campus for 
many years. The most recent proposal 
was the result of an extensive bipartiPlease see GSA, page 3
HCnjRlCa cRtRsRSC Hph
By ENA KHAN
Tartan News Editor
Final ballot counts from the Stu
dent Senate elections held this past 
weekend indicate that Bryon Krug, a 
junior electrical and computer engiAnthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Bryon Krug has been re-elected as the 
student body president.
neering and engineering and public 
policy major, has been re-elected for 
another term as student body president. 
Avinash Jain, a sophomore business ad
ministration major, is the newly elected 
Senate Treasurer. Senate representa
tives for CIT, H&SS, MCS, SIA, CFA, 
and the Heinz school of Policy and Man
agement have also been elected. The 
elections must be approved by the cur
rent Senators by next Sunday to be rec
ognized officially.
Presidential powers include vetoing 
legislative proposals, creating commit
tees, and calling special meetings. Krug 
has called a special meeting for all sena'r 
tors this upcoming Tuesday to resolv 
budget issues, fill vacancies, and ap
prove new Student Affairs policies be
fore the current senators are no longer 
in power. According to Krug, new and 
inexperienced senators would not be able 
to effectively deal with the current isisues. This will allow time to approve th 
Please see ELECTIONS, page 5
HCnjRlC bela viulRs ubucj
By SHEILA FLANNAGAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Senior art major, Erin Salzer 
won the grand prize of $1000 for 
her re-design of the Chanel N5 
bottle, as part of the In the 21st 
Century competition. Students 
were asked to submit their ideas 
for a new concept for the popular 
perfume bottle.
The competition, which was 
sponsored by Chanel, 
Kaufmanns, and the Andy 
Warhol Museum, the largest 
single-artist museum in the 
world, was held in recognition of 
the 75th anniversary of the fra
grance Chanel N 5. Contestants 
were judged by a panel of judges 
consisting of Thomas Sokolowski, 
the director of the Andy Warhol 
Museum, and various executives 
from Kaufmanns and Chanel.
The competition was open to 
students who are currently in a 
college art program in regions in 
which Kaufmanns Department 
Store operates, namely New York, 
Ohio, and Pennsylvania.
Salzer was drawn to this com
petition when she saw fliers ad
vertising it around the mailboxes
in the art department.
I love Chanel and I 
love Warhol so thats 
why I decided to do 
this project, said 
Salzer. She found out 
about the competition 
about a week and a 
half before the dead
line and worked for 
three days before she 
was satisfied with her 
design. My design 
was done in 
Photoshop, and I 
made millions of de
signs before I found 
the right one, Salzer 
said. Her design, Liq
uid Chanel is multi
colored with the col
ors pink and yellow 
predominating. After 
she completed her de
sign in Photoshop, she 
got an 11 x 17 color 
printout from the 
color copy center and then used artist. Because I did this on the 
prisma colors and silver leafs to side, it hasnt really affected my
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
Erin Salzer is a senior art student that won a 
contest for redesigning the Chanel bottle.
create what she refers to as a 
liquidy image.
Salzer said that the project did 
not have a great effect on her as an
art. But I really enjoyed [the con
test], especially since it involved 
artistic vision rather than conPlease see AWARD, page 5
HinCCsR ycofejRa dcRR cejRa
By JIM CARNEY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Express, a 
shuttle service providing free 
transportation to various offcampus locations, has been 
sponsored by the Office of Stu
dent Affairs for three week
ends this semester.
The shuttle took students 
to Squirrel Hill, Edgewood 
Town Center, and Monroeville 
Mall from campus on April 5 
and will provide the service 
again on April 19 and April 26. 
Should the program be suc
cessful this semester, Carnegie 
Express will be available to 
students in the fall.
We hope to provide a mecha
nism for students to get out 
and about in the Pittsburgh 
area, said Jennifer Church, 
assistant to the Dean of Stu
dent Affairs and coordinator 
of the Carnegie Express.
Several students had sug
gested to the Dean of Student 
Affairs, Michael Murphy, that 
a chartered bus would be a 
useful service. I think stu
dents had a good idea, and I
am glad we were able to make it 
happen, said Murphy.
Brenden Mielke, a junior in
dustrial management major who 
assisted in coordinating the 
project, said, I think that it 
meets a need that students have 
expressed for some time. Trans
portation to surrounding areas 
is sometimes difficult/costly.
The shuttle, which runs from
took 46 students to the surround
ing areas in Pittsburgh. Its a 
good free transport to places of 
interest, said Michael Roke, a 
freshman mathematics major 
and one of the first students to 
ride the Carnegie Express.
Mielke and Church are collect
ing data to determine if students 
are using the shuttle. They are 
assessing which times and loca"We hope to provide a mechanism 
for students to get out and about in 
the Pittsburgh area.
 Jennifer Church, Assistant 
to the Dean of Student Affairs
10 am to 8 pm, costs approxi
mately $250 per day to charter. 
Murphy decided that Student 
Affairs would sponsor and fund 
the service.
We were not very keen on 
charging, and Jennifer Church 
was able to develop a plan that 
was cost-effective, so we went 
for it, he said.
On its first run, the shuttle
tions are frequently used by stu
dents. Students sign in on a log 
each time they use the shuttle 
service. Were anticipating 
[Carnegie Express] to continue, 
said Church.
The initial feedback has been 
very positive. Many of the sug
gestions are similar and are 
workable. We are looking to proPlease see EXPRESS, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

i
J.iR .ucCul F vuclRmeR wRssol glefRcaeCr F PI Eyces P--,
  
5SRula jeaSofRcRj 
ol CiR Aool 3ncoyu
PASADENA, Calif. (AP)  Mindblowing pictures of large icebergs on 
the surface of Jupiters frozen moon 
Europa are tantalizing scientists with 
the possibility theyve found evidence 
of a dynamic ocean, which could have 
spawned life at some point. The closeup 
pictures taken by the unmanned 
Galileo spacecraft during a Feb. 20 
flyby have scientists more eager than 
ever to explore the icy moons interior. 
Their enthusiasm was palpable 
Wednesday as those images, includ
ing an animated video, were released 
at NASAs Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
It looks as though we found the 
smoking gun that points at this sub
surface ocean, said Michael Carr, a 
geologist with the U.S. Geological 
Survey. These are really mind-blowing pictures, said Richard Terrile, 
an astronomer at the JPL. How of
ten is an ocean discovered? ... There 
is very strong evidence that there is 
an ocean here.
The pictures of icy chunks scattered 
like pottery shards provide the 
clearest evidence to date there is liq
uid water and melting close to the 
surface of Europa, said Torrence 
Johnson, the Galileo project scientist 
at JPL, but we have no evidence di
rectly bearing on life.
Carr said the icy blocks, 
each about two to four miles 
across and resembling ice
bergs seen at the poles here 
on Earth, appeared to have 
drifted apart. You can 
push them back together 
to reconstruct the original 
pattern, he said. Their 
movement adds weight to 
scientists notion that a 
relatively warm watery or 
slushy layer underlies a 
frozen crust that could be 
anywhere from one to 60 
miles thick.
In the 20-mile-by-25-mile 
Europa snapshot, the ice 
probably is slightly more 
than a mile thick, said Paul Geissler, 
a University of Arizona planetary sci
entist. The ice surface is also rela
tively young, at about one million 
years, said Clark Chapman, a plan
etary scientist with the Southwest Re
search Institute in Boulder, Colo.
Oceanographer John Delaney of 
the University of Washington said 
the water on Europa is probably rich 
in salt and other dissolved chemi
cals from millennia of interaction 
with rocks and was spiked by incom
ing comets with the organic mol
ecules necessary for life.
Asked if the watery soup could hold 
life, Terrile said, The waters prob
ably bouillon, but we dont know if its 
chicken soup.
During the news conference, an in
ternational group of scientists was 
meeting across town to discuss a pro
posed ice-penetrating robotic craft that 
might be able to explore Europa. They 
plan to test the cryobot first at Lake 
Vostok, a freshwater lake beneath the 
ice of Antarctica. The 4.5-foot-long, 6- 
inch-diameter probe would carry a 
small, tethered submersible vessel that 
would emerge when it sensed water 
and could radio back a chemical analy
sis of what it found.
Delaney, who looks at life near seafloor volcanoes, was enthusiastic about 
such a mission. Asked if the latest 
pictures were enough to convince him 
theres life on Europa, Delaney gave
Scientists 
under the
courtesy of Reuters 
believe that there may be an ocean 
icy surface of the Jovian moon.
two answers. Speaking as a scientist, 
he said NASA and oceanographers 
could design experiments to answer 
the question. Then, speaking from his 
heart, he said, Im sure theres life.
Microsoft plans to 
purchase WebTV
LAS VEGAS (AP)  Microsoft Corp. 
is betting that its $425 million planned 
purchase ofWebTV Networks Inc., whose 
devices let people cruise the Internet 
from their TV sets, will spur the merg
ing of personal computers and televi
sions. Through their efforts ... we hope 
to dramatically accelerate the merger of 
the Internet and television, said 
Microsofts senior vice president, Craig 
Mundie, announcing the deal Sunday at 
the National Association of Broadcast
ers convention.
Microsoft, which already has a $5 mil
lion stake in the Palo Alto, Calif., com
pany, intends to operate it as a separate 
subsidiary, Mundie said. You can ex
pect some Microsoft technologies to show 
up in the future of WebTV, he added in 
an interview. Microsofts announcement 
comes as the computer industry and 
existing TV set makers race to define 
what the next generation of digital TV 
sets will look like.
The prize: $150 billion in spending 
needed to replace the existing 220 mil
lion analog TV sets in the United States.
Microsoft, Intel Corp., and Compaq 
Computer Corp., which have jointly de
veloped technical specifications for digi
tal PC-TVs, are at the NAB convention 
trying to woo broadcasters.
The companies executives predict that 
by next year there will be PC-TVs on the 
market, capable of receiving digital tele
vision, which will not be much more 
expensive than existing personal com
puters.
Joe Flaherty, senior vice president of 
science and technology for CBS, said TV 
stations will each have to spend from $1 
million to $2.5 million for new equip
ment to provide digital television, in
cluding high definition.If you dont do 
it, youll go out of business, he claimed.
Last week, the Federal Communica
tions Commission cleared the way for 
broadcasters to begin offering moviequality digital television to the Ameri
can public. Most importantly, the ac
tion means that after 2006, the exist
ing analog system of broadcasting dies. 
That means people will either have to 
go out and buy expensive digital TV 
sets or converters for existing analog 
sets to work.
Because it is more efficient than exist
ing analog technology, digital gives 
broadcasters the ability to cram more 
services in their same-sized slice of the
airwavesfor instance, a pay-per-view 
sports channel or stock quotes to laptop 
computers. That is the route Microsoft, 
Intel, and Compaq are pushing TV sta
tions to take. Digital TV has got to be 
more than pretty pictures, Mundie said. 
But stations that provide the next step 
up, high definition, will not' have as 
msich extra space. , , -Space station 
delayed until 98
WASHINGTON (AP)  NASA told 
the U.S. Congress Wednesday that 
Russias failure to meet its commitment 
to build a vital component of the inter
national space station will delay the 
start of construction by about 11 months. 
The first construction flight, scheduled 
for November, will be no later than Oc
tober 1998, station boss Wilbur C. 
Trafton told a House subcommittee.
I have spent the last four years 
hoping that I would not have to utter 
the words I told you so, but I think 
that day has finally come, said Rep. 
F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., chair
man of the House Science Committee. 
The participation of Russia in the sta
tion program, he said, has resulted in 
empty promise after empty promise, 
broken pledge after broken pledge, de
lay after delay. Russia is a partner in 
the space station program along with 
the United States, the European Space 
Agency, Japan, and Canada.
With U.S. funding, Russia built a space 
tug that was to have been the first ele
ment of the station. That module is ready 
to go, as is the second module built by 
the United States. But the third ele
ment, a service module that was to house 
crews and provide steering capability, 
has not been started.
Russia has missed a number of devel
opment milestones for their contribu
tions to the international space station 
due to funding shortfalls, Trafton said. 
Delivery of the service ihodule has teen 
delayed from April to December 1998. 
The delay has been predicted for 
months, but this was the first official 
announcement that the construction 
start was being delayed. The station 
was to have been completed and perma
nently manned by 2002, but that comple
tion date obviously will slip, too.
And the United States is modifying an 
existing system built by the U.S. Naval 
Research Laboratory that will provide 
command and steering functions, as well 
as the ability to raise the station to 
higher orbit.
Trafton said NASA will ask Congress
for permission to divert $200 million 
from the space shuttle program to the 
revisions. That way, he said, the United 
States can move ahead with reduced 
reliance on the Russians.
Sensenbrenner, who spoke before 
Trafton, added, Plainly put, NASA and 
the White House seem prepared to pay 
any price to keep the Russians in the 
program. The program is falling apart 
because of the Russians. I am angry that 
NASA and the White House seem pre
pared to whistle past the graveyard.
Mobutu plans to 
meet rebel leader
KINSHASA, Zaire  Under pressure 
from Western allies and eastern rebels, 
President Mobutu Sese Seko indicated 
for the first time Saturday he would be 
willing to meet face to face with rebel 
leader Laurent Kabila. Such a meeting 
has been one of the key demands of 
Kabilas rebels, who have captured 
nearly half of Zaire in their seven-month 
rebellion to overthrow Mobutus nearly 
32-year dictatorship. Recently,however, 
they have indicated they will only be 
satisfied with Mobutus resignation.
Mobutu was also stung this week by 
the abandonment by traditional West
ern allies, which no longer need him to 
thwart Soviet expansionism and are in
creasingly embarrassed by the corrup
tion of his regime. Belgium and the 
United States have intensified pressure 
on hiin to resign. But he said today he 
wont go into exile. On Friday, even 
Franceperhaps Mobutus most stead
fast Western supportersuggested the 
president meet with Kabila. It was the 
closest France has come to suggesting 
Mobutus days are numbered.
Earlier this week, Mobutu named 
Likulia Bolongo, a four-star general, his 
prime minister in the hopes that its not 
too late to rehabilitate the tattered army. 
Likulia,"Zaires third-prime minister in 
two weeks, named a new Cabinet on 
Friday, promising to rebuild the army 
and bring back order and discipline to a 
government under rebel siege.
There have been few real concessions 
to Western demands for greater human 
rights. Mobutu has declared a state of 
emergency, banning demonstrations and 
promising a crackdown on a disloyal 
press. Likulia says he wants to restore 
order. He said Saturday there would be 
no more street demonstrations.
Mobutu dismissed Western criticism 
of his authoritarian rule, saying, I am 
not a Western colony.
Further violence erupts in Hebron following funeral of Arab youth
 HEBRON, West Bank (AP)  In the 
West Banks worst violence in months, 
Jewish seminary students shot and killed 
a Palestinian, sparking fierce riots in 
which Israeli troops killed two Palestin
ians and injured dozens in Hebron, where 
500 Jewish settlers live in uneasy coex
istence with 130,000 Palestinians.
< The rioting in Hebron raged for more 
tkan five hours Tuesday, with hundreds 
of protesters hurling stones and fire
bombs at the Israelis, who fired back 
tear gas and rubber bullets.
 In Jerusalem, Prime Minister Ben
jamin Netanyahu called for Israeli secu
rity forces and Palestinian police to co
operate in restoring calm and warned 
that one more major terrorist attack 
could scuttle the peace process.
Palestinian police tried to prevent the 
protests from spilling over from the Palestinian-controlled part of the city into 
the enclave still held by Israel, where 
the shooting occurredonly to be pelted 
with stones by their own people.
Although Tuesdays fighting was the 
bloodiest, Palestinians and Israeli sol
diers have battled in the streets of the 
West Bank almost daily since Israel 
broke ground March 18 for a housing
project in east Jerusalem, the sector 
Palestinians want as their capital.
Yacoub Julani, 16, died in surgery 
with the metal kernel of a rubber bullet 
lodged in his brain. Later, 3,000 people 
attended his funeral, some crying out 
Rebel! and God is great.
A 24-year-old man wounded in the 
clashes died after hours in a coma, also 
from a rubber bullet that pierced his eye 
and brain, hospital workers said.
The crowds of angry protesters dis
banded late Tuesday afternoon. Spo
radic stone-throwing continued into 
the evening, when more than 700
people marched in the fu
neral procession of the first 
shooting victim.
The body, wrapped in a Pal
estinian flag, was carried to 
the grave by uniformed Pales
tinian police, who fired a 21- 
gun salute. The mourners 
waved Palestinian flags and 
banners, and shouted down 
Palestinian Transportation 
Minister Ali Qawasmeh when 
he tried to speak. They yelled, 
Let the olive branch fall  
and the gun rise!
Courtesy of Reuters
Palestinian and Israeli troops face-off in the streets 
of Hebron, where conflict has arisen over settlers.
Four-Day Forecast Ca.rn6|i6 lmiic
TuesdaySunny.
Hi 53 Lo 33
WednesdayScattered
Showers.
Hi 54 Lo 35
ThursdayScattered
Showers.
Hi 49 Lo 36
FridayScattered
Showers.
Hi 54 Lo 35
50 YEARS AGO, April 15, 
1947  Scotch N Soda returned 
after a war-enforced five year ab
sence with Rock nRiot. The show 
was an original musical comedy 
written and produced by Carnegie 
Tech undergraduates. Seats then 
cost only $1.20 per person, and 
the show sold out on the first day 
of ticket availability.
25 YEARS AGO, April 18, 
1972  Presidential hopeful 
Edmund Muskie kicked off his 
Pennsylvania primary drive by 
officially opening his Pittsburgh 
campaign headquarters. Several 
hundred supporters were on the 
scene at the Fourth Street head
quarters to be a part of the bustle.
People toted signs with such 
catchy phrases as, Only Muskie 
can beat Nixon and sported but
tons reading, succintly, Muskie.
Muskie never got the chance 
to run against Nixon, as George 
McGovern eventually became 
the Democratic candidate arid 
was defeated at the polls by 
Nixon by one of the largest 
margins recorded.
TEN YEARS AGO, April 14, 
1987  Excessive crowds and 
numerous fights forced Sgt. Sima 
of campus security to close Mid
way half an hour early. Most of 
the incidents were mere punch
ing matches, but others were re
ally nasty.
A black female not affiliated 
with CMU was attacked with a 
ten-inch butcher knife by a group 
of other black females.
In another incident, a group of 
fraternity men harrassed and 
then fought with another group 
of men, leading to a brawl. One
student received a broken nose, 
and several arrests were made 
afterward. Contrastingly, the 
next night, a Saturday, went well. 
All told there were nine arrests 
made during the 1987 Carnival.
FIVE YEARS AGO, April 13, 
1992  Carnival featured con
troversy due to an explicit frater
nity party poster featured on 
Sigma Alpha Epsilons booth. A 
group of female Chatham Col
lege students gathered in front of 
the booth to protest the poster 
which read Thar She Blows! 
and implied that the woman on 
the poster was giving a whale in 
a bathtub fellatio.
The women wore tape over their 
mouths and remained silent. In
stead, they let their t-shirts and 
signs, which read, This is offen
sive to women. We will not toler
ate it and Why do we have brains 
if we can only use our tongues? 
do the talking. One of the protest
ors said that they had taped their 
mouths shut to symbolize the sen
timent that, if were too busy 
performing fellatio, we cant 
speak our intelligent minds.
ONE YEAR AGO, April 15, 
1996  The campus mourned 
the unexpected loss of Senior Vice 
President Edward R. Schatz who 
died at the age of 74.
Schatz, who had been teaching 
a class on the History of CMU 
and managing the construction 
of the University Center, in the 
words of Stecen L. Calvert, origi
nally came to the University as a 
freshman in 1939 and never left.
Compiled by 
RYAN SCHILLING
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources

---------------------------------------------------

.iR .ucCul F vuclRmeR wRssol glefRcaeCr F PI Eyces P--,L
Senate faces GSA controversy
GSA, from page 1
san effort over the past year, said 
Murphy. My sense is that the princi
pal concern of undergraduate and 
graduate students is the same, notably 
to be fairly represented by their peers.
Senate has tended to be most involved 
in issues of concern to undergraduate 
students, deferring to GSA to deal with 
issues dominantly of concern to gradu
ate students, he said.
Graduate students, for a while, have 
been unhappy with the way they think 
they are represented in Senate. They 
feel Senate does not serve the needs of 
graduate students, said Catherine 
Senderling, Senate chair and a second 
year masters student in H. John Heinz 
III School of Public Policy and Manage
ment. The Senate does not work as a 
representative for both undergraduates 
and graduates. The spirit of the pro
posal should be that we are separate 
entities who have a lot of similarities 
and differences and where we are simi
lar, we can work together, she said.
If we have two voices that are better 
informed and they say the same mes
sage, the administration would get 
much stronger. If you divide govern
ment effectively, you can strengthen 
it, said Rob Rumpf, a junior electrical 
and chemical engineering major and a 
Senate representative on the commit
tee, who originally opposed the pro
posal. When the discussion about the 
needs of GSA was brought up, I doubted 
the efficiency of GSA as an adequate 
representive body. But when I watched 
how [GSA] operated, they seemed to 
have their act together and I began to 
question why I objected to graduates 
having a separate government, he said.
The committee has been working on 
amendments and changes for the pro
posal since early December. A forum 
was also held in February for Senate 
representatives to voice their views and 
suggestions regarding the proposed 
changes.
People at the forum never said any
thing and then they didnt pass [the 
proposal], Senderling said.
There was consensus and tacit ap
proval by Senate and GSA. There were 
no major objections, said 
Shankavaram. The lack of voiced oppo
sition to the proposal has led Senate 
representatives to speculate about why 
the proposal was turned down.
Senderling suggested that two main 
points of the proposal, fair representa
tion of graduate students in campus 
affairs and funding for both organiza
tions, may have contributed to its fail
ure to pass Senate.
The proposal recognizes GSA as the 
body of governance for graduate stu
dents and establishes the Joint Fund
ing Committee, composed of under
graduates and graduates, who would 
work together to determine how to allo
cate the Activities Fee. In addition, the 
proposal outlines a new role similar to 
the student body president, only this 
individual would preside over the gradu
ate student population.
Two or three people had philosophi
cal reasons for rejecting the proposal. 
They thought GSA should make an ef
fort to be a part of Senate. I think part 
of it was also the fact that the proposal 
was complicated and when things are 
more complicated, people tend to take 
the safer route, Rumpf said.
GSA is considering administrative 
intervention in order to resolve the is
sue. The option of administrative in
tervention is a very viable option. We 
will proceed with that if we really need 
to, Shankavaram said. We will not 
accept no as answer. Either [Senate] 
goes through the formal process to re
consider or we seek administrative in
tervention, he said.
Many students, however, have ex
pressed mixed emotions towards this 
possibility. The benefit of administra
tive intervention is that it would force 
Senate to recognize the needs of gradu
ates but the liability is that it threatens 
student sovereignty, Rumpf said.
I think having the administration 
intervene with student government is
sues sets a dangerous precedent. We, 
as students, should be able to work 
things out without administrative in
tervention. Thats our responsibility.
Sometimes, however, the administra
tion feels a responsibility to intervene 
in matters where one group does not 
feel it is being represented fairly by the 
current system, said Bryon Krug, stu
dent body president and a double major 
in electrical and chemical engineering 
and engineering and public policy.
I will be seeking more formally the 
input of student leaders and others to 
determine what action I may need to 
take in response to the concerns of the 
students involved, Murphy said.
Administrative intervention would 
be embarrassing. It would be taking 
student power away. We should be able 
to solve our problems, Senderling said. 
I understand where [GSA] is coming 
from. I do not want the administration 
to step in but I understand why GSA 
would ask them to.
Administrative intervention could be 
carried out in various ways. One way 
the administration could step in is by 
forcing a campus-wide referendum from 
graduate students and making that 
binding on Student Senate, Senderling 
said. If the administration uses an 
arbitration technique, that might not 
be too bad; however, if they just came 
up with a solution, that could be disas
trous, Rumpf said.
Although the possibility of adminis
trative intervention exists, administra
tion and committee members remain 
optimistic. My sense is that the stu
dents who forged this compromise reso
lution feel very positively about it and 
are still hopeful it might receive Senate 
support, Murphy said.
GSA representatives and Senators 
have put a lot of time and effort in the 
development of this proposal, and I 
think it would be really tragic if Senate 
does not approve it. The proposed gov
ernance structure offers an excellent 
opportunity for Senate and GSA to work 
closely in cooperation.
Senators now have the power to af
fect this change in a positive way, and 
that is why it is very important for the 
Senators to reconsider this decision and 
vote in favor of the proposal, 
Shankavaram said.
Administration rejects 
Senate registration plan
MAJORS, from page 1
behind the proposed changes, but we 
think the arguments in favor of the 
Senate plan are much stronger, Krug 
said.
The administration will implement 
the Academic Councils changes in the 
fall, perhaps along with on-line regis
tration, despite the Senates proposal.
According to John Papinchak, co
director of enrollment services, the 
administration has left the matter of 
priority up to the deans. What weve 
asked the deans to do is come up with 
a standard registration process, 
Papinchak stated. Weve been feed
ing them information about what we 
can code and what we cant code and 
waiting to see what they say.
The Academic and Associate Deans 
Councils have been working on the 
proposal since the 1995-96 academic 
year, at which point student and fac
ulty input suggested that people were
in favor of the Councils proposed 
changes. Were just trying to level 
the playing field for everyone, 
Grotzinger said. Thats what students 
asked us to do.
He also emphasizes, however, that 
exceptions can and will be made in the 
new system. We do want to accom
modate students who declare double 
majors, and we feel that through ex
ception handling and the registration 
system itself well be able to do that,  
he said.
The new system will also allow the 
University to collect more demand 
data than ever before, possibly lead
ing to an increase in the number of 
instructors and sections for courses 
that fill quickly.
I really believe this is going to 
work, Grotzinger said. If it doesnt 
work, then well make changes. What 
Im really pleading is give the system 
a chance.
Get out and about...
Student Affairs provides 
transportation off campus
SHUTTLE, from page 1
vide better information about what is 
available at each stop. Also, we are 
asking what the reason for use was to 
better identify the market and possible 
changes to the routes or times, said 
Mielke.
According to Church, locations with 
various shopping venues, such as the 
Monroeville Mall and the Giant Eagle 
in Squirrel Hill as a response to student 
need.
The Edgewood Town Center stop has 
been less popular than the other stops. 
A lot of people didnt know what was 
up there, said Church.
Mielke, in charge of publicity for the
service, posted on a multitude of bulle
tin boards and posted flyers around 
campus. Also, in an attempt to find a 
better name for the service, the depart
ment of Student Affairs is sponsoring a 
contest for students to enter sugges
tions for a new name.
The grand prize, a $100 gift certifi
cate to Lazarus, will be given to the 
student that comes up with the win
ning name.
The shuttle, since it is a new service, 
is still unknown to many students. Pub
licity was not great. [We] will rework 
[the publicity] before the second week
end. Hopefully, word of mouth will work 
well, said Mielke.
Crime and Incident Report
THEFT/RECOVERY, 3/22 
12:46 am  A security guard 
radioed Campus Police to stop at 
Margaret Morrison Plaza, where 
he had accosted two male CMU 
students carrying pool cues. They 
explained that they had taken 
. the sticks from Hamerschlag 
Houses lounge as a fraternity 
prank. Initially, they said they 
had been told to procure the sticks 
but later denied this. The indi
viduals were issued internal cita
tions for theft.
THEFT/RECOVERY, 3/17 
5:21 pm  Campus Police re
ceived a call from the delivery 
route person for USA Today, re
porting that the paper box from 
Resnik Hall had been removed.
Later, the police received a call 
from a man who stated that he 
believed he had found the miss
ing paper box in the Donner Hall 
basement, west laundry room. 
The delivery person was con
tacted, and he determined that 
the coin box mechanism had been 
damaged. He said that he would 
not be able to pick it up until later 
that week. Attempts to locate a 
secure area failed due to the lack 
of available space and the fact 
that the box was so heavy it 
needed two people to carry it. The 
delivery person was advised that 
Campus Police could not guaran
tee the box would still be there 
when he came to pick it up.
To this day the box still resides 
in the Donner laundry room.
UNDERAGE POSSESSION,
3/14 10:46 pm  A CMU Donner 
Hall desk attendant contacted 
Campus Police requesting assis
tance for an RA. The RA had 
observed several individuals car
rying in a few cases of beer. Offic
ers came to the room that the 
indiviuals had entered. The occu
pants admitted to carrying in the 
five cases of beer but said they
were storing it for a St. Patricks 
Day party. The beer, including 
four open cans, was disposed of.
THEFT, 3/19 3:49 pm  CMU 
police received a call reporting that 
the foosball table from the 
Morewood Gardens Recreation 
Room had been stolen. The wire 
cable that attached the table to the 
floor had been cut. Later, police 
received an anonymous tip that 
the foosball table was somewhere 
in a fraternity house. Officers went 
to the house and gave the resi
dents five minutes to produce the 
table or else a search warrant 
would be secured to search the 
house. The residents went down to 
the basement and, a few minutes 
later, returned with the table. The 
fraternity was issued a citation for 
theft.
PERSONAL INJURY, 3/31 
4:52 am  An officer responded 
to Morewood Gardens for a per
son with a cut arm. Upon arrival, 
the officer found the student with 
a four-inch laceration on his arm. 
The student stated that he and a 
friend were horsing around in 
the room with a butter knife with 
a serrated edge when he got cut.
CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 4/3
5:30 amA complaint was called 
into Campus Police. When the 
officer arrived at the Mudge 
House room, he found it flooded 
with water. The occupants of the 
room had opened the door that 
morning to see a 55 gallon plastic 
trash can filled with water pour 
into their room. Some unknown(s) 
had propped it against the door 
during the night.
THEFT, 4/3 10:31 am  An 
officer was dispatched to the Pret
zel Works in the University Cen
ter. In the second report of the 
week from the establishment, it 
was stated that a gallon of lemon
ade was again taken from the 
countertop container. There were 
no signs of forced entry despite 
the area being locked nightly. The 
lemonade was valued at $20.
OBNOXIOUS ODOR, 3/17 
7:02 pm  A student in Mudge 
House contacted Campus Police 
notifying them of a foul odor ema
nating from his neighborsrooms. 
An officer was dispatched to take 
a whiff, and reported that it was 
coming from the common area 
inside the door leading to the 
rooms and smelled something like 
a sour pile of wet clothes sitting 
for a long time.
USED CONDOMS, 3/1912:10 
pm  An officer was dispatched 
to the Pittsburgh Technology 
Center due to reports of used 
condoms sitting on the floor of 
the first floor mens room. The 
night custodian noticed them 
there originally and turned them 
over to her supervisor, who sub
sequently turned them over to 
the officer who arrived on the 
scene. After some discussion it 
was decided that the condoms be 
placed in the trash can. The plan 
was then implemented.
 Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of com
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
 Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RYAN SCHILLING
Corrections/Clarifications...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of facts. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-In-Chief 
Sharmila Venkatasubban at tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
0',0<OAKLAND/ 
SHADYSIDE
4740 Baum Boulevard687-9555
Free Delivery  Open 7 Days a Week
Sunday-Thursday 11 am-2 am  Friday & Saturday 11 am-3 am
THE UNBELIEVABLE, UNBEATABLE, ALMOST-TQO-GOOD-TO-BE-TRUE 
DORM DELIVERY DEAL!
pg4 E 9E6T3 h3hh365GO hOKKE AT THE REGULAR PRICE AND RECEIVE A LARGE h3hh365GO hOKKE
VALID AT THE OAKLAND PIZZA OUTLET ONLY
Not valid with any other offer. Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires May 31, 1997

---------------------------------------------------

[Council
118 Meyran Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA
Tel : 412-683-1881
^CE PARTY,
. . . I SEE A LOT 
wOF FAMILIAR
Carni lifts:
lind out atcounci
UNDER 25? 
FULL-TIME STUDENT? 
AT THE PUBLIC, YOU'LL PAY ONLY*10!
(CALL (412) 321-9800 FOR DETAILS)
Point Perfect. 
With Our Student/Faculty Rate.
The Pittsburgh Hilton and Towers is set on the Point of the three rivers and popu
lar Point State Park is our front yard. Three Rivers Stadium, the Carnegie 
Science Center and shopping are all within walking distance. And if 
you dine with us at Sterlings, we can arrange a limousine to the sym
phony, the opera, the theater, or an event at the arena. For reservations, call your 
professional travel agent, I-800-H1LTONS or the Pittsburgh Hilton at 412-391-4600.
Please join us for The Buhl Lecture sponsored by Carnegie Mellon Universitys Department of Physics when
Tuesday, April 15,1997, at 4:30 p.m.
Mellon Institute Auditorium, Second Floor
4400 Filth fluenue
Reception follows at 5:30 p.m.
Free and open to the public
The lecture will trace the emergence of 
our present universe from the primordial 
soup of the Big Bang.
Edward W. Kolb (known to most as Rocky) is a member of the NASA/ 
Fermilab Astrophysics Group at Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in 
Illinois, where he served for ten years as the first head of Astrophysics. He 
also is a professor of astronomy and astrophysics, a professor in the college 
and a member of the Enrico Fermi Institute of The University of Chicago.
He has traveled the world, if not yet the universe, giving scientific and public 
lectures. Dr. Kolb has appeared in several television productions; most 
recently in a BBC special. "Cosmology on Trial." He is presently in produc
tion of a six part series on cosmology for the "Great Teachers" video series. 
He can also be seen in the new IMAX film "The Cosmic Voyage."
Call 1-800-GO-RYDER
Live in 
New York City 
This Summer
NYU Summer Housing 
May f8August 9, 1997
Living in an NYU residence hall offers a 
safe and convenient home base while you 
are working, taking classes, or doing 
an internship.
 Minutes from New Yorks business 
and cultural centers.
 Apartment-style and traditional 
residences; single and double occupancy.
 Outstanding sports-recneation facility.
0 Over 1,000 day and evening courses.
 Apply early to secure a space.
For more information, call toll free
I -800-771-4NYU, ext. 912
)akTand Dont
/ifra'pe"' forget!!
Secure that fall 
apartment before 
school ends!
?1 & 2 bedroom apartments 
?Charming 2 bedroomhouse 
?One block from Forbes 
?One mile two campus 
?Clean, well maintained 
?24 hr. emergency service 
CALL TODAY 
683-1200 
258 ATWOOD ST.
Astrophysicist Edward Rocky Kolb
rtrattiai- %trattini *trmiit: hrtraiti#/fm/ti> %-mtiaBi %raiiia- %rmiafo ftrnufab '^rmik^-.
Long before the emergence of people, 
planets or even stars, the universe con
sisted of a primordial soup of elementary 
particles. Encoded in this formless, shape
less universe were seeds that over billions 
of years would develop into the beautiful 
and complex universe we see around us.
from DOR
PRIMORDIAL sow
JO PITTSBURGH
.uDR The EasyWay 5nC 5d vossRmR/
"A BRILLIANT NEW IRISH PUY!"
...A GREAT PLAY, LIKE A GREAT PUNCH, IS SOMETIMES HARD TO SEE 
COMING, BUT YOU KNOW WHEN YOU'VE BEEN HIT."
 THE NEW YORKER
Tom Atkins
in
Gateway Center 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
412-391-4600
Pittsburgh
and Towers
| http://www.hilton.coml Kids 18 and under stay free in parents' or grandparents' room. Offer valid Thursday-Sunday from 3/17/97 through 9/8/97. Limited 
availability. Advance reservations required. Rate does not include tax or gratuities and does not apply to meetings, conventions or other promotional offers 
and is subject to change without notice. The Hilton logo and logotype are a registered trademarks of Hilton Hotels Corporation. 1997 Hilton Hotels.
!----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
10% Off Boxes & Supplies
Wonlroln4 bows. Oishpucks. Tape. Bubble wrap. You 11 ante it. weluivi 
v^/7. You'll nei /scolmi prices antI we'll even buy baci; any boxes yon
tirili 7 lise. Wlilch ineims you'llsave more riun lime ami iroublc. you II 
save money tool Cali Ryder TRS toclay tinti (,'</ oli tlie movihf siipplies you 
necci. Now lluil's a smart move.
RYDER TRS
BY SEBASTIAN BARRYBayer 4-
NOW THROUGH MAY 2STH K&X'tiSo
(412) 321-9800lllstranjh J)osl-6atfllr 
1= US AIRWAYS
Tliis Ite ture is fundid under .th nuspiees ufllie Bulli ProlVssorship in Thenretieal IMiysies. wliieh was estnhlished at C arnegie Mellon in 1%! In The Bulli Foundation in suppuri of un ouislanding llieorelieal sminisi who
would hot li impali theoretieal resemeli imi lielp estahlish direetions lor experimenlal imestigalions.

---------------------------------------------------

.iR .ucCul F vuclRmeR wRssol glefRcaeCr F PI Eyces P--,3
Students vote for Senate representatives at elections
ELECTIONS, from page 1
elections at the regularly scheduled 
Thursday Senate meeting.
Krug will be working with Matthew 
Phelps, a sophomore electrical and com
puter engineering major, as the new vice 
president of Senate. Phelps has worked 
on various Senate projects with Krug 
and served as  senator last Spring. 
Matt and I have a strong working rela
tionship together, said Krug.
Katie Hart, the previous vice presi
dent, will be studying in New York city 
next semester and was unable to run
with Krug.
Krug has various projects lined up for 
his next term such as working with 
business services to expand the use of 
campus express to off campus locations. 
Krug also plans on working with ad
ministration to have classes canceled 
on Martin Luther King Jr. Day. Noth
ing has happened so far. Im going to 
continue to push for no school on MLK 
Day, said Krug.
Krug is attempting to improve the 
link between Student Senate and the 
administration by adding student rep
resentatives to the administrative com
mittees. Better links between Senate 
and student organizations is also on 
Krugs agenda.
Jain, formerly the Funding and Rec
ognition Chair, is now the Senate Trea
surer.
His primary duties include keeping 
track of the student organization bud
gets and monitoring the activities fee. 
I think he will be very valuable, said 
Krug.
During his term as treasurer, Jain 
plans on making a recommendation to
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Man has seizure 
on Carnival ride
Griffen Taft, a man not affiliated with 
CMU, had a seizure while getting off the 
Sea Ray ride last Saturday during Car
nival.
The man fell on the exit ramp. He was 
conscious but not responding. Pittsburgh 
police, Campus Police, EMS, and an 
ambulance arrived at the scene at ap
proximately 6:40 pm.
EMS officials found a medic alert card 
indicating that the man has a history of 
seizures. Accordingto Jason Pickett, the 
on-duty EMS supervisor, the paramed
ics treated the man in the ambulance to 
stabilize his condition. He was then taken 
to Mercy Hospital.
The Sea Ray remained in operation 
for the rest of Carnival. Sergeant Ricci 
from Campus Police attributed the sei
zure to the motion on the ride. A label on
the ride warns people with medical prob
lems such as seizures to abstain from 
riding the Sea Ray.
CS head earns 
esteemed award
Head of the Computer Science De
partment James H. Morris has been 
awarded the Simon Chair of HumanComputer Interaction. The award is the 
first endowded chair in the Universitys 
Human-Computer Interaction Institute 
(HCII). Key projects for the institue in
clude information visualization, wear
able computers, collaborative hardware 
and software, and Internet use in the 
home. Morris and his colleagues have 
recently developed a tool to facilitate 
collaborative writing, which is being used 
around the country as well as in Carnegie 
Mellon English classes. He was the act
ing director of the institute since it was 
established in 1994 until 1996. Moms
increase the Activities Fee. Id like to 
help campus life become better. Increas
ing the Activities Fee would allow us to 
allocate more money to student organi
zations, said Jain.
Only five percent of the student body 
voted in the elections, a slight decrease 
from 7 percent last year. I wish a lot 
more people would have voted. Five 
percent is pretty disturbing, said Krug. 
According to Krug, better publicity 
about the elections would have encour
aged a better response.
I think a lot of students dont know
the candidates. They dont know who is 
running, said Dan Tilkin, a sophomore 
double majoring in mathematics and 
computer science and the Elections 
Board chair.
Krug said, As long as people dont 
realize that Senate is doing things that 
affect them, they have no reason to 
vote. Krug has attempted to diminish 
this problem by sending out a newslet-; 
ter that explains the projects that Sen
ate is involved. Krug plans on main
taining this newsletter through his 
next term.
was instrumental in developing the 
Universitys Andrew system. He was a 
CMU graduate in mathematics and has 
been a professor since 1982.
Program fosters 
female retention
The School of Computer Science (SCS) 
is hosting a summer program on campus 
for computer science teachers. The pro
gram is geared toward teaching the C++ 
programming language and developing 
skills to recruit and retain female stu
dents in computer science. Currently 
only 18 percent of CS majors at top 
universities are women. The Intel foun
dation and the National Science Foun
dation have given CMU a $650,000 grant 
to facilitate the program. Allan Fischer, 
the SCS associate dean for undergradu
ate education, is the program manager. 
The program will be offered in July of
1998 and 1999.
Student wins Chanel contest
AWARD, from page 1
cept/ which is what many of the projects 
in the art department involve, said 
Salzer. While Salzer is unsure of her 
specific plans as an artist following 
graduation, she knows that she will 
definitely pursue graduate studies in 
some field of art.
Salzer was presented with her award 
at a fundraising event called A Scent 
of A Good Time, which was held on 
Friday, April 11 at the Andy Warhol 
Museum. Accordingto Colleen Russell 
ofMedia Relations at The Andy Warhol 
Museum, Sokolowski as well as the 
presidents of Chanel and Kaufmanns 
presented awards to Salzer and the 
two runners-up: AndrewLewandowski, 
a student at Cazenovia College, 
Cazenovia, New York, and John 
DeMarco, a student at SUNY at Buf
falo, Buffalo, New York.
The fundraiser also featured Chanel 
images created by Andy Warhol in
1985 th at were on display for the first 
time; works by artists Julian Schnabel, 
Margaret Curtis, and Donald Baechler, 
which will be featured in Interview 
magazines celebration of the 75th an
niversary of Chanel N 5 in the May 
issue; a new exhibition by artist 
Francesco Clemente, entitled 
Francesco Clemente: Portraits; and 
never-exhibited photographs from the 
new Death in America: Photographs 
from the Andy Warhol Archives.
The event was held at a cost of $75 
per person and was followed by a Late 
Night Party which featured Johnny 
Dynell, famed New York City under
ground nightlife personality and 
DeeJay, and Richard Move, an ac
claimed New York City nightclub per
formance producer and choreogra
pher, who presented Martha at 
Mother, a dance program satire based 
on Pittsburgh-born dance legend 
Martha Graham.
Student Senate Minutes
approved by hand vote.
Proposed Substitution 
Amendments to Bylaws Revi
sion Proposal:
Motion objecting to consider
ation approved by hand vote.
(Brian Bluth): See bboard.
Treasurer (Brian Mueller): 
See bboard.
President (Bryon Krug): See 
bboard.
Committee Reports: All ex
cept Funding and Recognition 
postponed due to lack of quorum. 
Please see bboard for relevant 
postings and be in touch with 
committee chairs.
Funding and Recognition
(Avinash Jain)  Budgets are
taking longer than we had 
hoped, but we are planning to 
distribute them with ample time 
before the full Senate hearing 
on Thursday, April 17. You will 
need to notify me 24 hours in 
advance (by 5 pm on Wednes
day) if you will be contesting
any budget on that date. 
Meeting adjourned at 7:20 pm
Submitted By 
CATHERINE 
SENDERLING 
Edited By 
RYAN SCHILLING
Roll was taken at 5:05 pm. 
Meeting was called to order at 
5:07 pm.
Senators Present: Babb 
(CFA), Bumb (CIT), Bembenick 
(HSS), Braden (SIA-SAL), But
ler (CIT), Cox (CIT), Chang 
(MCS), Go (SLA), Goodrich (HSS), 
Gross (HSS), Guzy (HSS), 
Sorwitz (SCS), Jain (SLA), Jones 
(CFA), Keleher (CIT), Kenny 
(MCS), Klein (CIT), Langer 
(CFA), Lentz (MCS), Lipshutz 
(CIT),McCartin(CIT), Messinger 
(CIT), Mingo (SLA), Muir (HSS), 
Ng (CIT), Pinkston (CIT), 
Prattipati (SCS), Robles (MCS), 
Rosenthal (SCS), Rubin (SCS), 
Rumpf (CIT), Senderling (HNZ), 
Sheby (SCS-SAL), Stanton (CITSAL), Schwartz (HSS-SAL), 
Swehla (SIA), Szudarek (HSS), 
Thomas (StA), Tsatsoulis (HSSSAL).
Senators Absent: Amin 
(HSS), Fay (MIS), Harbi (MCSSAL), Hong (SIA), Kwalik (SIA), 
Reilly (HSS-SAL), Stovall (MCS).
Approval of the Minutes:
Minutes from March 20,1997, 
were approved by acclamation.
Amendments:
SDC Dormitory fee is now 
raised to $12 per semester Krug 
Amendment to New Issue Peti
tion was amended to remove SDC 
reference. Name misspellings.
Special Orders:
New Issue Petition: Brought 
up from table. Krug Amendment 
to proposal substituted for origi
nal petition, approved by hand 
vote. Final approval given by 
hand vote.
Bylaws Revision Proposal 
Amendments:
1. Motion to strike Gradu
ate Student Organization refer
ences and replace with Graduate 
Student Assembly, approved by 
acclamation.
2. Motion to insert exemp
tion from fiscal policy for Senate, 
GSA, and graduate departments,
Final Vote on Proposed Stu
dent Body Constitution and 
Student Government Bylaws:
Failed, 15 nays and 7 yeas, by 
roll call: Bembenick (N), Butler 
(N), Chang (N), Go (N), Gross (N), 
Jain (N), Jones (Y), Keleher (N), 
Klein (N), Lentz (Y), Lipshutz 
(N), McCartin (N), Messinger (N), 
Mingo (N), Muir (Y), Pinkston 
(Y), Prattipatti (Y), Rosenthal (N), 
Rumpf (Y), Swehla (N), Szudarek 
(Y), Thomas (N).
New Business From Com
mittee:
Election Board  Approved by 
acclamation
Resolution on Finals Policy  
Approved by voice vote
Resolution on Priority Regis
tration Approved by voice vote
New Business From the 
Floor:
First Readings of proposed 
CMU rule changes:
1. Community Standards
2. University Disciplinary 
Committee makeup
3. Free Speech policy
Ex-Officio Reports: Meeting 
adjourned due to impending lack 
of quorum before reports given in 
person. Please see bboard 
postings for important announce
ments.
Activities Board (Jill 
Goodall): See bboard.
Graduate Student Organi
zation (Jay Shankavaram): See 
bboard.
Greek Council (Adele 
Chiodo): May 11, 1997 is the 
Greek Awards.
Faculty Senate (Barbara 
Preyost): Senate is meeting on 
Wednesday, April 9.
Division of Student Affairs
(Barbara Prevost): Introduction 
of possible changes to commu
nity standards. (See bboard.)
Student Dormitory Council
STUDENT SENATE 
Meeting of 3 April 1997
STUDENT
SENATE
No More Academics
D.H. Brown Associates, Inc. wants you to identify 
critical issues in the real world.
If you enter the world of competitive analysis at DHBA as Research Assistant, you will research a 
wide range of topics in the computer industry to identify critical issues and assess the viability 
of products. If you give DHBA a two year commitment, we will teach you the analytical skills nec
essary to develop technical expertise in the computer hardware and software industry. It's like 
graduate school  only you get paid!
Your work will revolve around reading current literature and discussing Issues with hardware and 
software end-users and developers, helping to unravel the Implications of advanced technologies. 
The Ideal candidate will have an engineering or science-major and excellent writing skills. An inter
est in computer graphics, parallel computing, systems management , or systems software is a plus.
D.H. Brown Associates, Inc. publishes research on technology, with a current emphasis on design, 
manufacturing, and open computing systems. Interested applicants, please send your resume, tran
script, and a sample of both your technical and non-technical writing to: College Recruiter, D.H. 
Brown Associates, Inc., 222Grace Church Street, Port Chester, NY 10573; Fax #: (914) 937- 
2485; E-mail: bjgibbs@dhbrown.coui.
m
D. H. BROWN
 J S I C I l I [ I, I I c

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University14 Aprii 1997
EjAeleaCcuCeol ycoAoCRa 
cRsuYuCeol beCi ainCCsR
On a campus that is consumed 
with heavy and unyielding 
workloads, students need encour
agement to take time to relax and 
get away from the stresses 
ofacademic life.
Last weekend the administra
tion offered students an opportu
nity to get off campus with free 
trips to neighboring areas such as 
Edgewood and Monroeville. 
Carnegie Express drives students 
to shopping areas so they can have 
a change of pace, even if for only a 
few hours, to take some time off 
from problems sets amd term pa
pers.
Despite its urban location, 
CMU is an isolated campus. Stu
dents tend define their param
eters by the limits of how far 
their feet can take them (from 
Craig Street to Shadyside) and 
forget that Pittsburgh offers 
many cultural venues and rec
reational activities. By offering 
students a chance to explore the 
fcity, the administration sends 
out the message that there is 
more to an education than tests 
and required readings.
Although the shuttle only 
takes students to grocery stores 
and shopping malls right now, 
the Office of the Dean of Student 
Affairs, which sponsored the ser
vice, is planning on expanding 
to meet continued student in
put. Future destinations of 
Carnegie Express should include 
Pittsburgh highlights such as 
the Andy Warhol museum, Pitts
burgh Pirate games, Kennywood 
Theme Park, and the Buhl Plan
etarium of Science. CMU stu
dents chose to study in a bus
tling city, but often forget that 
one exists around them. If the 
shuttle includes such places on 
its itinerary, students would 
have no excuse for graduating 
with no idea of what Pittsburgh 
has to offer.
Administrators should keep in 
mind the importance of publicity 
 the shuttle will miss its mark 
and prove to be a failed effort, 
despite any intentions, if students 
dont know about it.
If Carnegie Express is success
ful, students should begin to think 
of the shuttle as they do movies 
shown in McConomy Auditorium 
or Doherty Hall. Whats playing 
in Doherty? could be replaced 
with, Wheres the shuttle going 
tonight?
Students often feel tha the ad
ministration is .not concerned 
with the social development of 
students, but by offering such a 
service the administration dis
putes this stereotype. The Of
fice of the Dean of Student Af
fairs should be commended for 
its efforts to meet the needs of 
students and for initiating pro
grams that stress the importance 
of relaxation.
Especially at CMU, where stu
dents often have a one-track mind 
when it comes to education, stu
dents need to be distracted from 
schoolwork once in a while.
vUE aionsj ycRaRcfR 
CcujeCeola
A schools individual flavor is 
mostly a result of the unique ac
tivities its students engage in. 
Events like Booth and Buggy, 
Spring Carnival, and Mobot Races 
are important because they rep
resent who and what makes up 
CMU. Beaux Arts Ball is one of 
the Universitys defining student 
traditions. This is especially true 
because we pride ourselves in 
being one of the only technical/ 
research universities in the coun
try with a first-rate fine arts col
lege too. Beaux Arts has always 
been a great way to promote CFA 
and its students, and to celebrate 
the fact that CMU has such as 
(strong artistic vein.
CFAs decision to cancel Beaux 
Arts Ball constitutes a serious 
blow to one of Carnegie Mellons 
few time-honored traditions. The 
ball has been a bi-annual fixture 
on this campus for decades, 
stretching back to Carnegie Tech 
years; this will be the first time 
the ball has been canceled for any 
reason other than war.
This makes it all the more 
dissappointing that the campus 
has been denied one of its most 
lively events simply because poor 
planning and lack of communica
tion between the Beaux Arts Ball 
committee members and admin
istrators. The campus was robbed 
of an important tradition and for 
some students their only oppor
tunity to ever experience it.
Ryan Donovan/Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
Letters to the Editor
Cart manager 
responds to story
letterato the Editor 
Student Center Room 1
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I am writing in 
response to your 
recent article 
about the vendor 
Sreevardhan (of 
Srees Foods), and his altercation with 
CMUs Dining Services (Officials re
move campus vendor, 3/10/97).
In your article, Sreevardhan made 
several allegations regarding Frank 
Fulmer. These false statements included 
accusations of physical violence, accep
tance of bribes (including the acceptance 
of alcoholic beverages), and the use of 
profanity.
I have worked with Frank for six years, 
in both Dining Services and currently as 
manager of LaPrima Espresso Carts.
I have never seen him lose his temper 
or use profanities in this time, regard
less of numerous stressful situations.
I have been in his company at social 
situations and never seen him touch a 
drop of alcohol. For him to take a bribe of 
expensive champagne is so far out of 
character as to be absurd.
All vendors on campus experience lo
gistical difficulties when beginning their 
ventures. Frank does his best to smooth 
these out and work towards solutions 
beneficial to both parties.
LaPrima has had complete satisfac
tion with both locations on campus, 
through Franks assistance.
I consider Frank Fulmer to be extremely 
good-natured and hard- working and have 
never seen him act in any other manner 
than absolute professionalism.
Linda Gregory 
Manager
LaPrima Espresso Co.
Student supports 
Psych testing
Editor:
Id like to take a 
second to respond to 
Alex Lewins com
plaint of being forced 
to participate in psyLetter to 
the Editor
chology experiments in introductory Psy
chology courses.
Apparently, Mr. Lewin doesnt like 
this idea because it isnt factored into 
the average workload for units. (Nine
units = nine hours per week.) While 
reading this, one thought came to mind.
Grow up.
Does Mr. Lewin actually believe that 
all CMU courses follow the hours-perweek rate when assigning units to 
courses?
I suggest that he go talk to a CS 
major taking Operating Systems or an 
ECE major who has to spend extra 
time in lab because he or she couldnt 
get their circuit to work.
I know I spend more time than the 
units say in some courses, and less in 
others.
In the end, it works out. (Sometimes 
not; thats true as well. Take a good 
look at midsemester week some time.)
So Mr. Lewin felt like a fool while 
doing this experiment.
Good.
Now when he runs one, hell have an 
idea about how his subjects feel.
Thats the difference between real 
life and the classroom, and he should 
appreciate that the professors require 
their students to go out and experience 
it.
Charlie Anthe 
Sophomore .
ECE
Heavens Gate image captures campus
The importance of Beaux Arts is 
not limited just to CFA students. 
The last ball was open to all stu
dents and represented a great 
opportunity for CMU students to 
get together and have a good time 
such events are, currently, very 
limited in number. CFAs plan 
for future Beaux Arts balls in
clude making it a less extrava
gant affair and slotting it in with 
a proposed bi-annual Jill Watson 
festival. Not only would this lump 
the maj or art-celebrations into one 
weekend every two years, but it 
would make Beaux Arts exclu
sive to CFA students again.
If the decision is justified, even 
if only in part, by CFA 
administrations fear of behav
ior at the ball and lack of proper 
security measures, then it pro
ceeds on the assumption that 
CMU students are incapable of 
mixing fun and responsibility. 
CFA administration should 
know by now that the best way 
to teach students how to mix fun 
and responsibility is to challenge 
them to do so.
Beaux Arts Ball should be re
instated as soon as possible, if 
not this semester, then certainly 
in the next one. Otherwise, there 
will be no one left who actually 
remembers what a real Beaux 
Arts Ball was like to revive it, 
keeping intact the connotations 
it now holds. Lets not let this 
tradition die.
Rebecca Fribush
When I heard about the Heavens Gate 
cultists, with their New-Agey, sciencefictional casserole of beliefs, their exper
tise in the ways of the Internet, and their 
complete lack of sex lives, my first 
thought was this: What were all these 
CMU students doing in a sunny Califor
nia mansion during spring break, and
how come I wasnt invited?
Its rather disconcerting if you think 
about it. The post-Waco image of a cult 
has been that of a bunch of crazies holed 
up in a compound somewhere stockpil
ing weapons to stave off doomsday or the 
federal governmentwhichever comes 
first. In other words, they resemble no 
one most of us are likely to meet in our 
lifetimes.
However, the cult at Rancho Santa Fe 
were nice, gentle people earning a re
sponsible living through the World Wide 
Web  the crazies next door. Theyre
like people you might meet on campus, 
only several hundred times more so.
Frightening, isnt it? It almost makes 
you wonder whether something like that 
could happen here.
Yes, CMU students would presum
ably have enough common sense to real
ize that no aliens are waiting to swoop 
down behind a comet and whisk us away 
to another dimension, and that even if 
they were, such supposedly advanced 
creatures would surely figure out a way 
to do it without us going through the 
Please see CULTS, page 76ussr aioba na iob cuSeaA cRAuela
Cameron Dezen
only when the big bad wolf crawls out from under a rock so 
we can all shake our fists at him. In other words, its very 
easy to feel righteous when the enemy is in your face.
But I know thats not where racism is at its most 
dangerous. Its in everybodys everyday lives, so ingrained 
that we dont even see it.
A friend of mine at the rally said Is it 1955 or 1997? This
Though my faith 
in humankind is of
ten tested, I guess I 
still think folks are 
basically good.
Though I, like everyone, have been
disappointed at times, I dont quite fall into the category of is what my parents generation was supposed to take care 
cynic, one so popular for people of my generation. of. I kind of smiled and nodded in sheepish agreement,
Most major media stories would have people think folks my but at the time I couldnt quite figure out why I felt so 
age are apathetic and dont seem to care about things like uneasy about that idea, until it struck me last week, 
eradicating racism. But it was proven that we do last week- Racism is not static, it changes over time  it has 
end, when hundreds (per
haps thousands) turned 
out to protest the tactless 
Ku Klux Klan on the steps 
of the county courthouse.
Though the thought of 
being faced by ignorant 
bed-sheeted individuals 
shouting hate slogans 
didnt exactly turn me on,
I felt an obligation to attend the rally, and I was excited because it seemed like a lot 
of my peers felt the same.
What I was met with last Saturday was unnerving at best 
and nauseating at worst.
I couldnt figure out why I felt so uneasy, but for the entire 
time I was wedged between groups of protestors, I couldnt 
help but think this: Folks are worrying about this one day a 
year, scrambling to insult a group of easily insultable hate 
mongers, when they should turn themselves around and look 
at their own lives.
We should be dealing with this shit all day every day, not
Folks are worrying about this one 
day a year; scrambling to insult a 
group of easily insultable hate mon
gers, when they should turn around 
and look at their own lives. 
to.
How could racism do its 
job, which is to enforce a 
societys economic and so
cial hierarchies, if it 
doesnt change with the 
times?
It has to take forms that 
are less obvious for us to 
lose track of it. We think 
weve solved the problem, 
and we leave rallies like the one last Saturday congratulat
ing ourselves all the way home to our all-white or all-black 
neighborhoods and eat dinner with our mostly white or 
mostly black friends and forget that right there, in our 
homes and schools, is the problem.
We are still divided, and until we can come to see racism 
for what it is and deal with it everyday, fools in white bed 
sheets are going to pop up every so often to remind us.
Cameron Dezen is a senior English major. She welcomes 
any responsible replies to her column.

---------------------------------------------------

.iR .ucCul F vuclRmeR wRssol glefRcaeCr F PI Eyces P--,,
HCnjRlCa deC SnsC jRaSceyCeol
CULTS, from page 6
trouble of killing ourselves.
Im sure many males here 
would complain that the gender 
ratio makes castration redun
dant. And we could never match 
Heavens Gates irritatingly 
Spartan diet.
It cant be natural for anyone 
involved with computers to work 
like that without the benefit of 
24-hour pizza places.
But if we consider those at 
Rancho Santa Fe as some kind of 
epitome of cultliness, CMU cer
tainly seems to have what it 
takes to sprout its own equally 
unusual and non-violent cult. It 
would be a great way to distin
guish CMU from other campuses 
in the minds of those picky pro
spective students  You can 
get a high-quality education at 
any number of places, but only 
at CMU can you join your very 
own cult!
I dont know; maybe we can 
expect people here to pledge al
legiance to whoever developed 
UNIX or something. While 
Heavens Gate preached about 
moving qn to the Level Beyond 
Human, CMU cultists can talk 
about spirituality system up
grades. Or take the Star Wars 
Trilogy as their Bible. Oh, wait, 
they already do.
Naturally, you need a little 
more than a liking for The XFiles and the ability to design a 
good web page to subscribe to 
one of these cults. A little insan
ity probably helps.
I mean, who were these cult
ists? People who smile when they 
talk of their castrations? People 
who prepare for their imminent 
deaths by loading themselves 
with lip balm and pocket change? 
(Dont tell me they expected vend
ing machines where they thought 
they were going. And if leaving 
your body for a higher form of 
existence cant stop chapped lips, 
I dont know what can.)
People who willingly sub
mit to denial of their indi
viduality in order to stake 
their hopes on some kind of 
alien rescue mission?
Of course, I may not be the best 
person to ask about cults. My 
experience with cults has been 
limited to being in junior high.
I seem to remember something 
about how Id be cast to the devil 
if I didnt have exact duplicates of 
the Champion sweatshirts and 
Guess jeans worn by all the other
advertising campaign an inter
esting twist: Nike  the shoes 
that will take you into a whole 
new dimension!)
Had enough with the weird and 
wacky world of cults? Or did the 
news about Heavens Gate only 
whet your appetite for crazies with 
Messiah complexes?
Either way, get ready for a 
whole bunch of cult stories in 
the next couple of years. As the
little seventh-graders.
We went for uniform haircuts 
then too, although instead of the 
shaved heads of the Heavens 
Gatists, we favored the long and 
hairsprayed look.
The conformity practiced by 
the Heavens Gate people sur
passed even junior high levels. 
From their identical purple 
shrouds to their identical new 
Nike sneakers, everything was 
exactly the same. (At least this 
whole thing will give Nikes next
Neil Babra/Tartan Art Staff 
new millennium nears, Im sure 
that more and more people will 
decide that death by dippy reli
gion beats any of the other al
ternatives. Like I said: fright
ening, isnt it?
Becca Fribush is a freshman 
history major. She plans to start 
her own cult based on the wor
ship of pigs sometime in the 
near future. It will hold Babe to 
be the Supreme Porcinity, with 
Miss Piggy not far behind.
Alex Lewin
Writer hates efficiency
Talk of telephone reg
istration has been circu
lating. Other universi
ties have used such a 
system for years. I re
member four years ago 
watching my brother stand in our kitchen with the speaker
phone on, registering for classes at UCLA with the touch of a few 
buttons. The system was simple, efficient, fast, and it saved a lot 
of people a lot of work.
I think its a bad idea.
I only came to this opinion recently, when I was on jury duty 
in January. I was lucky enough not to have been assigned to a 
case in the ten days I was scheduled to be on call. (Yes, I know 
its hard to believe  Im from L.A. and there was no trial for me 
to participate in.) The court had a new system where you called 
in twice a day, entered your group number, and a telephone 
message told you whether you were supposed to show up at court 
the following day.
This struck me as one more step towards complete automa
tion. Pretty soon, you wont have to leave your home to serve on 
jury duty. Can you imagine? Just call 777-JURY.
Hello and welcome to J uryphone! If you know the name of the 
defendant on whose trial you are serving, press one. To choose 
from a list of current defendants, press two.
If you have questions about a book contract or obtaining a 
literary agent, press three. 1.
Please enter the first three letters of the defendants last 
name, then press Pound. 6-3-6.
You have selected Ly/e Menendez and Erik Menendez. To hear 
highlights of todays testimony, press one. Or, to skip right to 
touch-tone deliberations, press two. 2.
Press one for guilty, two for not guilty, or three if you need 
time to deliberate.
Now, it might be easier for jurors to remain in their homes for 
jury duty. But, as you can see, this telephone automation would 
hardly be fair to the defendant. The same goes for telephone 
registration. Now, I agree that its a pain in the ass to wander 
around campus and get signatures from every department. But I 
enjoy it. Call me old-fashioned, but I look forward every semester 
to visiting the History office, where Naum Kats forcefully tries to 
convince me that I should be a history major because my creative 
writing major will take me nowhere. I look forward to visiting the 
H&SS lounge on pre-registration day, where a few lucky members 
of the English staff greet you with a look of supreme exhaustion 
and wait for you to bombard them with your inevitable barrage of 
questions and RAD forms.Yes, its a lot of paperwork, and its all 
rather confusing. But college without massive amounts of paper is 
like orange juice without oranges! Apple pie without apples! 
OFries without grease! In a world where automation is taking 
over, we must hold on to our traditions, our old ways.
In order to ensure this, I say we should all trade in those stupid 
touch-tone things for rotary phones.
Alex Lewin is the Forum Co-Editor. He harbors a secret longing 
for the day when he can edit his section over the phone.
Greek involvement should earn them campus funding
r James Stepanek
Theres an interesting subject thats been 
on peoples minds lately, that is especially 
relevant to Spring Carnival. Student Sen
ate has recently been debating whether or 
not to allow Greek organizations to receive 
funded status, and thus a portion of the 
Activity Fee. Some feel that this is wrong. 
Id have to differ. Most people on the Greek 
side say that they deserve the money be
cause of what they do for campus. Id say 
theyre wrong, too.
It is easily arguable that Spring Carni
val and the general social life of campus 
would be a barren wasteland without the 
Greeks. Of the 14 buggy organizations, 10 
are Greek. Around half of the Booth entries 
are Greek. The best parties to be found 
during Carnival (and the rest of the year) 
are all on the quad. This does not even get 
into the issue of whether or not most of the 
activities :are sustainable without Greek 
participation.
Buggy, for instance, requires quite a 
bit of manpower just to occur. There 
must be sweepers, flaggers, and a multi
tude of other details must be attended to 
for the event and its practice runs to 
happen. Without a fairly large number of 
buggy organizations, the time commit
ment from each organizations members 
would be much greater. With only the 
four remaining independent organiza
tions, there wouldnt be Buggy at all.
But, to be realistic, if the Greeks were 
removed from the scene, some equilib
rium would be attained. Maybe more 
booth and buggy organizations would 
spring up. Maybe the vacuum would be 
filled  then again maybe it would not. 
Ive noticed that independent loyalty in 
buggy tends to be a bit shallower than 
that of the fraternities. This is not to say 
that every organization doesnt have its 
fanatics, but one can notice that the 
independents wax and wane in size de
pending on their success each year. Re
member CIA? I doubt many will, since 
they died a few years ago after fading out 
in Buggy. What happened to their sup
port? They went to Spirit, Pioneers, and 
SDC. The simple truth is that indepen
dent buggy organizations are few in num
ber because there is a limited pool with 
the depth of commitment needed. The 
fraternities exist for other reasons, and 
thus are continual competitors.
So I suppose it is pretty clear that the 
subtraction of the Greeks from CMU 
would alter Carnival, but does that jus
tify Senate funding? Well, no it doesnt. 
However, there is a reason that they 
should be funded. More correctly, if any
one should be funded, they should be 
funded as well. It is simply unfair to 
make some organizations fund their com
petitors. Greeks fund their booths and 
buggies out of their own pocket, while 
independents receive Activity Fee money 
from everyones pocket.You can argue 
that anyone can join an independent or
ganization, but in an activity as competi
tive and shrouded in secrecy as Buggy, 
everyone knows thats a load of bunk. If a 
PiKA mechanic tried to join Spirit and 
see everything about their buggies, hed 
be laughed out the door. Sure, they may
let him be some form of member, but full 
membership is not an option. In a com
petitive endeavor, granting some exclu
sive organizations funding while denying 
it to others is patently unfair.
You might argue that the PiKA me
chanic is an extreme case. OK, I suppose 
it is, but what if you do join, say, Fringe 
and you rub everyone there the wrong 
way? Dont even try to lie and say that 
they wouldnt find a way to make you 
leave. Fraternities are just more honest 
and tell you outright that you cant join if 
you dont fit in. Other clubs will make you 
learn this over time. Anyone who believes 
that every independent organization will 
accept anyone is heavily medicated.
To put it simply, the only fair way to do 
this would be have either all competing 
organizations be funded, or none of them. 
Im more inclined to the latter myself, but 
if the former is more amenable to people, 
I could accept it.
James Stepanek is a PhD candidate in 
materials science engineering. He welcomes 
any responsible replies to his column.
A PERSONSS.
We know that Carnival is 
the one weekend when CMU 
is at rare form: it is lots of fun. 
To determine just how much 
fun Carnival can bring, we 
asked students: Which is
the best booth to fool 
around in?
P.J. Paparelli
Senior
Drama
 T Dream Of Jeannie be
cause I like lots of puffy 
pillows!
Compiled by Anthony Chao and Brooke Goldner
Mike Natale
Junior
Undecided
Well, I Dream of Jeannie 
would be the most comfortable, 
but our booth (Twilight Zone) 
is the darkest  and we have 
black lights!
Kathryn Mcelroy 
Freshman 
Chem E
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
Brent Haick 
Freshman 
Mech E
 Speed Racer because its cool The back seat of the Dukes of 
and its fast! Hazzard car!
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper*Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief..................Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Managing Editor...............1-Ping Li
Business Manager.....Amit Sheth
News Editor....................Ena Khan
Forum Co-Editors.............Jennifer
Garcia de Osuna, Alex Lewin
Sports Editor...........Chris Cannon
Features Editor.. Becky A, Cowser
Diversions Editor...........Tracy Odell
Calendar Editor.....Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Co-Editors ... Laura 
Varrachl, Paulina Berczynskl, 
Dossier Literary Co-Editors.... Kelly,
Bowles, Kevin Meehan
Art Editor.....................Julee White
Photo Editor..........Anthony Chao
Production Manager Kevin Babbitt 
Advertising Manager... Steven Hsu 
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules
Copy Manager........Victor Ortega
Asst. Features Editor.....Anne Ray
Asst. Diversions Editor.........Ryan
Donovan
Asst. Art Editor. Rebecca Madden
Asst. Production Mgr........William
Holtz
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Mgr.....Diana Bartolotta
Personnel Manager... Paul Boothe
Contributing Editors 
John Biggs, Amit Kar, Kenneth 
Kraemer, Andrew McDermott, 
Jay Miolla, Elizabeth Neuman,  
Chlntan Shah, Jim Snyder, 
Gabrien Symons
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Matt Ball, Jessica Strelitz, Susan
Watson
Staffwriters 
Chris Adukaitls, Andre Archie, Nell 
Babra, Melissa Batt, Vineet 
Chander, Steve Charnoubi, Max 
Chlttister, Matt Cuccaro, Jul L. Dai, 
Dave Eiman, Sheila Flanagan, 
Rebecca Fribush, Shannon Gibney, 
DanGoldwasser, Tom Harper, Adam 
Klivans, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Tom 
Lin, Simona Lo, Greg Marcks, Trevor 
Meyerowitz, Mlki Muchhala, Dizzy 
Murphy, Ken Namkung, Jon Orris, 
Danielle Pierrattl, Dan Rosenberg, 
Jaya Saxena, Ryan Schilling, An
drew Seymour, Betty Shea, Reena 
Singhal, Ronak Singhal, Michael 
Sperger, Matthew Solitro, Nathan 
Steinweld, James Stepanek, LeeAnne Stossell, Meena Vagnier, An
drew Wang, Tony Yu, Bradley 
Zimmerman
Comics
Nick Casclato Jr., Chuck Fryman, 
Hiromi Hasegawa, Jim McCann, 
Dave Newell, Jackson Tam, Dave 
White, David Wingrove, Mike Yeh
Photo
Lisette Miller-Dixon, Maria 
Gimenez, Brian Smith
Darkroom 
Ava Bal, Eva Bal, Amy Cristomo, 
Elias Fallon, Colleen Manning, Paul 
Moore
Production 
Rahul Bhargava, Tammy Manskl, 
Diana Rutherford, Pragnesh Surtl
Copy
Mimi Cheng, David Elman, Rebecca 
Fribush, Elayne Foster, Maria 
Gimenez, Helena McGahagan, Matt 
McHenry, Megan Parke, Reena 
Singhal, Stanley Tran, Andrew Th
ompson, Joanne Wei
Business 
Michael Averbuch, GauravDudhoria, 
Patricia DiGluseppi, Chris Hong, 
Avinash Jain
Junior Staff 
Mark Adato, Neil Babra, Douglas 
Beeferman, Amy Berger, Brendan 
Bosworth, David Bazelon, Thomas 
Birdsey, James Carney, Susie 
Cribbs, Connie Dieghan, Jonathan 
Fantazler, Joy Ferguson, Rhonda 
Gillespie, Rob Godek, Pratish 
Haladay, Eric Holowka, Will 
Isenhour, Carrie Jones-McGuire, 
Kevin Kroen, Ken Kwalik, Masha 
Kovarsky, Lilian Lee, Carey 
Lefkowitz, Maureen McGranaghan, 
Diado Mack, Vy Ty Mai, Josh Merry, 
Jessica Rhodes, Benjamin Roberts, 
Nia Rodgers, Jason Scharfman, 
Scott Shell, Joshua Walstrom, Julie 
Wilson, Seldon Yuan
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students duringthe fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the University community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of
number for verification. Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright  1997 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: University Center Room 314 Phone: 412/ 268-2111Mailing address: . .._____Mellon university/Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890 Funded In part by your Activities Fee. All rights reserved. Library of Congress ISSN#:0890 3107. Thefartan is a member of the Associated Press.

---------------------------------------------------

THEARNc aNRde miCoRuuHoEiun lrr CEdmHuE 
jtsSptTht bvyy hfTTthJSfTs.
Effective wur P-BP--,B all current network connections 
for students in on-campus housing will be disconnected.
Students can prevent a disruption in their networking services by pre-registering their next data outlet activation. On April 
24 and 25, 1997, between the hours of 9:00 and 4:30, by the Connan Room in the University Center, the Network Group 
will have a staff member with a computer ready to assist students in completing network pre-registrations for summer and 
fall data outlet activations. Pre-registering your next network connection assures you that an outlet activation will be ready 
and waiting in your new room when you return to campus.
C - :
VM5
NEEDS TO PRE-REGISTER?
Any student who wants an active network connection:
 After May 19
 For a summer session
 For Fall semester
Volu me9 1,,I ue
THEA
TO PRE-REGISTER.
Volu s2 C
Q5G1.
PRE-REGISTER?
 The building and room you will be living in next
 The phone number in that room
 What area in the room the outlet you want is located
 Information about your computer
If you cant make it April 24 and 25, there are two other ways to pre-register:
 You can use a WWW page to both obtain data outlet numbers 
and submit your pre-registration electronically. The URL is:
http://www.net.cmu.edu/reg/student.html ---- -   ~~~[
Or you can submit a paper Pre-Registration form as found in the 
Help Center, Cyert Hall A50. Only completed forms will be processed.
 Pre-registration is not mandatory; its just a good idea 
that can save students from waiting for an outlet activa
tion during the busiest time of the year. The Network 
Group received over 1200 activation requests last 
fall, sometimes at a rate of 300 per week. This can 
lead to a significant delay to process a network 
activation. Network Group can keep that delay to 
a minimum by making connections before stu 
dents arrive, and have an active outlet waiting 
for you if you pre-register.
Starting the week of MAY 19,1997, 
the Network Group will begin to activate summer pre-registrations.
aer ner,
EHHOH.EGv38
General information about campus networking issues can be found by:
 Looking at the Network Group WWW page at http://www.net.cmu.edu
 Calling the Network Group (Data Communications) Help Desk at x8-2635
 Sending mail to dc0m@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

D.E. Shaw is the most tech
nologically sophisticated firm 
on the Street.
 Fortune
D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P. is a 
small (around 400 employ
ees), highly capitalized (over 
800 million dollars in equity 
capital), very successful Wall 
Street firm specializing in 
various aspects of the inter
section between technology 
and finance. We are now 
aggressively seeking excep
tional candidates in a variety 
of fields for positions in our 
offices in New York, Boston, 
London, Tokyo, and 
Hyderabad, and are prepared 
to compensate highly talent
ed individuals at a level 
exceeding that of the market.
D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P. is an 
equal opportunity employer.
We're recruiting 
at CMU:
Please direct all inquiries or sub
mit resumes, along with GPA and 
SAT scores, as follows: 
oncampus@deshaw.com 
or
(212) 403-8499
(facsimile)
CLOS SIZZLING 97 SUMMER SEASON!
PNC BANK, 
i US AIRWAYSw^-ks)
CLO STUDENT COUPONS
5 Tickets for $30!Student Coupon Order Form  Mail Order Only!*
* Sunday- T nahr as ra1m 
y21-u2 ID am ra1m dTy2 m-ham2
________________________________________________________ nTm Tu T $30 nF-ni am &au-r
am-m &T- hTrTtd- 2a 2F- 3VAVn 
LVIF2 Dh-mTH ETVd 2aO
CLO-S21-u2 3a1hauK
NF- P-u-1& 3-u2-mK
719 LVt-m2r ZA-u1-K
UV22yt1mIFH PA 15222.
For TV2VauTd Vusam&T2Vau nTddK 
(412)281-2822. ETVdam-m 
audrK ua YTdF5VuyK hd-Ty-K Su
_ SCHOOL _
When you receive your 5 vouchers, they may be redeemed individually or in any combina
tion for single tickets at the Benedum Center Box Office beginning May 1st. lust present 
your voucher and ID or report card at the Box Office for the best seats available in the 
Second Tier Applicable for all performances, this represents a savings of up to $70! Limit 
One Set of Vouchers Per Student. Deadline to purchase vouchers: June 15th.
V; :y r-.;/t s X;- fr?  
Antht oy44 7nt 0BBaum le7yvy7ytr dtt 68-t9r Ay44 58E
Each year, Student Senate allocates over a half million dollars to student organizations and activities.In the Spring, the majority
of this money is budgeted for the following academic year. On April 18, Senate passed the budget package listed below.
Organization1997-8 Proposed Subsidy 1997-8 Proposed BudgetOrganization1997-8 Proposed Subsidy 1997-8 Proposed Budget
AB Coffeehouse$10,800$11,800IRO$330$4,330
AB Comedy$14,000$14,500ISU$950$3,490
AB Concerts$32,500$32,500Katapirang Pilipino$365$755
AB Films$37,930$67,930Kilite Band$7,246$7,646
AB Lectures$22,500$22,500KSA$1,020$2,720
AB Main$10,000$18,000Lacrosse$2,000$4,000
AB Political$17,500$17,500Mayur$2,380$4,885
AB Spec. Events$17,550$17,550Oakland Review$5,476$7,326
AB Tech$24,410$27,210Pioneers$1,950$5,450
Activities Fair$3,750$3,750Pre-Law$0$0
Allies$260$380Pugwash$1,500$6,800
Amnesty Int'l$675$950Robotics$945$1,145
ASA$956$2,656Rugby$1,430$3,655
Astronomy$45$65Rowing$26,315$57,700
Ballroom Dance$1,900$16,900Scotch N Soda$5,990$10,990
Baseball$4,250$6,250SEDS$470$620
Bowling$1,010$7,260Soc. of Auto Eng.$0$0
Camarilla$120$310Spic Macay$2,960$5,950
Circle K$470$820Spirit$2,850$15,090
cmuOUT$1,018$2,118Student Body Pres.$2,175$2,175
College Bowl$1,717$3,167Student Body Trea.$1,125.$1,125
Cycling Club$400$700Student Senate$6,310$6,310
Dancers' Symp.$1,700$2,100Student Union$0$0
Docs of Carnegie$0$0TSA$890$4,290
East End Tutoring$500$3,385Tartan$24,500$147,650
Explorers Club$2,243$4,743Thistle$26,725$51,725
Fencing Club$1,655$3,255Ultimate Frisbee$1,415$8,815
Field Hockey$345$945Varsity Club$3,945$5,920
Filmmaking Club$2,450$4,150Vermillion$84$384
Forbes Gallery$5,000$5,500W3VC Radio Club$1,745$2,080
Fringe$2,885$5,535Womens' Center$5,750$6,950
Creek Council$565$1,265WRCT$37,263$37,293
HelSA$155$555Zugzwang$445$675
HKSA;$250$3,185
Ice Hockey$11,000$19,700Totals$408,938$718,956
Inline Club$240$440

---------------------------------------------------

COMICSbecause sometimes, thats the way it goes
| \ oe, a deer (a female deer); ray, a drop of 
golden sun; me, a name I call myself; far, a 
long, long way to run; sew, a needle pulling 
thread; la, a note to follow so; tea, a drink with jam 
and bread (jam and bread), which will bring us 
back to doe (dont ask me, I only work here).
Dilbert
by Scott Adams
MICE., YOUR PERFORMANCE 
IS GOOD, BUT YOU MUST 
LEARN TO DEAL WITH 
AMBIGUITY.
DID I TOST GET 
BLAMED FOR YOUR 
INDECISIVE LEADER
SHIP?
HERE'S THE NEU ORG 
CHART. I HAD TO 
REARRANGE THE LAYOUT 
TO MAKE IT FIT.
WHY IS MY BOX LOUER 
THAN ALICE ANO WALLY'
IT MEANS 
NOTHING... 
NOTHING 
AT ALL.
y
THE NEW ORG CHART HAS 
MY NAME LOWER THAN 
YOURS, BUT IT DOESN'T 
MEAN ANYTHING.
SEE? IT WOULDN'T 
ALL FIT ACROSS THE 
PAGE. IT'S JUST A 
GRAPHICAL LAYOUT 
THING, THAT'S ALL.
I'M NOT INDECISIVE', 
I'M FLEXIBLE.
THAT WOULD 
EXPLAIN HOW 
YOUR HEAD 
GOT WHERE. 
IT IS.
OKAY, WHO TOLD YOU 
THAT EVERY YEAR I FISH 
YOUR SECRETARIES'DAY 
CARD OUT OF YOUR TRASH 
AND SAVE IT FOR NEXT 
JlttE? j-----
HEY, DIL-BOY, PUT A | 
HEAD ON THIS AND I
PERHAPS. BUT YOUR 
BOX SEEMS SMALLISH. 
AND YOUR REPORTING 
LINE BRUSHES AGAINST 
MY BOX.
I DON'T CARE WHAT IT 
LOOKS" LIKE ON THE 
ORG CHART/ YOU'RE AN 
INTERN, NOT MY BOSS'
CAROL, I DONT MEAN 
TO BE CRITICAL ABOUT 
THE DEPARTMENT 
PHONE LIST YOU PUT 
TOGETHER...
I
I JUST SAW THE NEW 
ORG CHART. CONGRAT
ULATIONS ON YOUR 
PROMOTION, ASOK!
NO, I'M SURE THIS 
MEANS I'M YOUR 
NEW BOSS.
Calendr. 16 1s
KILLED SOMEONEj 
>IN A PREVIOUS) 
(LIFE.)
LET'S GO
"ABR IL"R NTPUY SO ~'i 
STRATEGIES ! LOUD. THE 
AND PRETEND | LO-S-E-R
BUT IT'S TRADITIONAL 
TO LIST PEOPLE 
ALPHABETICALLY, NOT 
SORTED BY PHONE 
NUMBER.
I
BECAUSE
WHAT
POSSIBLE
USE...?
INCOMING 
CALL FROM... 
LET'S SEE... 
IT'S WALLY... I 
CAN IGNORE 
IT.
Leold(leold@javanet.com) 
by Roger and Salem Satloom oiw6
My mom's been raising 
me all by herself. She doesn't 
have much money. Sometimes 
she's so busy. She bought me a 
whole bunch of new dollies.
She left them on my bed on 
Friday afternoon.
I really appreciated it so I 
left her a note on the kitchen 
table before I went camping for 
the weekend.
" Thanks for everything.
Goodbye."
She thought it was a suicide 
note and went crazy crying all 
over the neighborhood, and 
calling everyone on Ihephone.
Me and my friends 
thought it was funny.
Sometimes she is so funny.
sowwegiate srossword
1i34:67891011l213
14!16
1/19
2022
23
24
28293031
U.m343b
36m37jyJU
40
414243
44m
45
4b4/48,49SQ5152
bJ54ST
bb
K
5/58by6061
Edward Julius Collegiate CW8830
ACROSS
1 Shave off 
5 Miss Bara 
10 Pretense
14 ------ Steven
15 Desert spot
16 Wife of Zeus
17 Movie musical 
(4 wds.)
20 Peculiar
21 To laugh: Fr.
22 ----- play
23 Well-known magazine
25 Type of silk
26 Fraternity 
initiation
28 Metal restrainers
32 Fairies
33 Kills
34 Beer
35 Bert Lahr role
36 Eschews
37 Competent
38 French coin
39 ------ and a
prayer
40 Bent
41 Young bird
43 Sings like Crosby
44 Pro football team
45 Sci-fi thriller
46 Plays a guitar
49 Soft drinks
50 Onassis, for short 
53 Movie musical
(4 wds.)
56 ------ of Eden
57 Bungling
58 Treaty group
59 Intellectual 
powers
60 Omar's output
61 Vigor
DOWN
1 Mazatlan money
2 Enthusiastic
3 Romantic meeting
4 Famous Siamese 
twin
5 Changing the 
sound quality
6 Hirsute
7 Anglo-Saxon slave
8 Surnamed: Fr.
9 Receptacles for 
smokers
10 Dwindle
11 Pile
12 Seed covering
13 Part of a 
horse
18 Golf clubs
19 Sevareid, et al.
24 Tres ------
25 Brother of 4-Down
26 Miss Reddy
27 Mrs. Kramden
28 Hurled
29 Formed by the lips 
and the nose
30 Actress Vera-------
31 Ovules
33 Leg parts
36 Bikini
37 Bitter drug
39 "Remember the ------"
40 Optical device
42 Has faith in
43 Kirk Douglas 
features
45 Take into one's 
family
46 Worry
47 Siamese
48 Repose
49 Gulf of ------
51 Miss Hayworth
52 Religious image
54 Compass point
55 French number
Gary Trudeaus Doonesbury 
will return next week.
(Hey, stuff happens - 
life is hard but we all 
get over it.)
 Comics Guy
The infallible 
Comics Survey
We want to know what you want to be 
splitting your side about in the comics 
section. So this is your chance! Send this 
handy-dandy clip-out survey to us via 
campus mail and let us know.
1. Which comics do you read regularly? 
(circle em)
Dilbert
Doonesbury
Graniteville
Ilios
Japanese Beetle 
Leold
Non Sequitur 
Over the Hedge 
Peds
Robotman 
The Killer Cheek 
Twisted Pete 
Umbilical Cord Fred
2. What.comics would you like to be read
ing regularly?
3. Are you a sheep? (circle one)
Yes
No
4. How can we make you laugh?
5. Did you do the Crossword Puzzle? 
Yes 
No
send to:
Comics Guy
The Tartan 
Box 17

---------------------------------------------------

.iR .ucCul F vuclRmeR wRssol glefRcaeCr F PI Eyces P--,PP
gwpO9OvE9tv56h U63hNICK CKSUATO#&~7 @1117 MtCH<U4SgASCI*TO,Tre.
1Stud PEAS? THAT'S ALU 
I (VET? THIS plET/5
klLUN6- ME 1 YESTERDAY
en asbmipbu ' SToPffp
CrR.ovi-trs;(j- ANC7 stak.tp 
YELLING- At me!
SEE WHAT X MEAN ?
1rd olhA 
JEA'5,7ArKASS,
JACKASS I
gar 6o/ pRePA&AVtu
? /=tfg THIS, ANPPFW'J OWW 
SclfWTK7y Ke4fJlM47P A 
 SBV&&D tfuMtJ CHBEt,
U/Hicu, WTtt FLoSP the r 
VldlLA^T^ HfrS KlseU I
AcSrAlVZT-HlW. ^
3?rue Ti/Mr (MS ar n>
^ g~L_ OP THE
^ Kf LLER CHE-F/ J
Trie S7tfy rtfc^ F4/?...
As- F AW ^V/i- ATTEMPT
To TAKE OMtTR Tt\S WOULp, 
AFS COSVM.FP se\/EkAL 
i-iuMMs w create a frail 
(CAL4 C1 2)A3--
pRcM. wmcR TS MLE.
AT CAST IHAl/f Y^, 
You MneMBCE 
Tartan TSfSrawie
iAAM/M
X A*\ FLoYO
(STOP MB5WG WITH MY 8^1! j
]/ /HEY, I'M NOT 1 
'.  ( WEARING ANYTHING VTHEK ;fj
Mr/ SO BACK UPSTAIRS Mi PUT SOMETHIN DECENT ON.1 YOU'RE NAKED!1. /'SO^T'
WELL,THIS COMIC- 5TKIP 
ONLY PRINTS DECENT 
NON-OFFENDING MATERIAL 
ALTHOUGH IM NAKED,I'M 
BEING PRINTED, SO THEREFORE 
I MUST BE DECENT. AND 
Thus, it MUST BE DECENT 
VjO BE /WKED! j
(omimE 'an
Tciir IT OUT." I'M WEARIN&T^'M BUND! I'M LINP!' )
A# 5 
ttjyo1 Hasps!
WELL, UM... OK! MAYBE we .SHOULD DO SOMETHING 
more drasticl hey plume,come om here!
I'M GOING TO KILL YOU AND TURN YOU INTO 
RABBIT STEW! THAT'LL REALLY SHOW THOSE 
CENSORSHIP GUY'S HW'5 BOSS! J '
" y /ishoulTbT^
> I LEAVING NOW...
IN OBJECTION TO THIS COMIC STRIPS OUTRAHOUS 
CENSORSHIP POLICY, WETHE CHARACTERS OF PEDS 
STAND IN UNANIMOUS PROTEST! ISN'T WAT RIGHT?!
NsEEEd m, hey, Sarah, come
OVER HERE. TM MING TO 
KISS YOU... THAT'LL SHOW 
THEM! /EWWW...NOWAY1 
\r~1 YOU SMELL LIKE 
\\ \ SQUID. I'M NOT
 1 XgOINGTOHISSYOU!
Due to growing concerns over 
obscenity and indeccncy in 
this comic strip, PEDS will now 
take effective measures to 
ensure decency at all costs 
so that readers might not be 
offended.
oJJueJRaaaaaddckJ 
7 ujw
I PONT KNOW! ) I THINK
c DDsCS4 ghvvmyljz
CENSORSHIP BUSINESS IS 
H v-------, TOO MUCH!!
FfilS IS RIDICULOUS!
HOV ARE WE 3UPWSE To DO 
ANYTHING FUNNY IF-READERS 
tm EVEN SEE US?.'.'____.
In response to the 
characters complaints 
concerning black-outs 
used for censorship 
purposes on the facial, 
genitalia and pectoral 
regions, this comic 
strip has decided upon 
using a more "natural'' 
looking type- of 
censorship.
ON ITGT?
IKY TAKING OFF YOUR LOTHES
I IS STAN ALRIGHT? )AT LEAST WE &0T RID OF 
THOSE FULL BODY BLACK-OUTS , 
7r AAtKMTm'SA
BUNCH OF FEMALE MEK
11 with urge mm 
rZ^\cmi THIS WAY/
MAN,THIS JUSTcornu WE ALL. HAVE THE 
.SAME PROBLEM AS YOU. ACT 
?-C\ LIKE A MAN STAN! ^
lriif5o amc0 DeDrno c
1SH I WAS A MAN!!!Please disregard any 
abnormal physical 
attributes of our 
characters. They 
are part of our 
on-going censorship 
policies.
With new awareness 
over concerns of 
indecency, PEDS 
remains firm in its 
new censorship policy.
U MW/
1=0R SNSrriVE READERS'- NO SEXIST CONNOTATIONS INTENDEb
MUTT, NORMALLY YOU WEAK, 
SUNGLASSES . EVEN IF YOU 
HAD THOSE BLACK-OUTS 
REMOVED, YOU WOULDN'T 
BE ABLE TO SEE THOSE 
THINGS.
WEIL, MAYBE IF THEY COUib 
REMOVE THAT BUCK-OUT 
POWN HERE, I COULD
THEN PEE.'! ^-------
'AAR&Hii SET THESE 
STUPID BLACK-OUTS OFF 
MY EYES!!
MAN, X WANNA SEETHE 
SUN SHINE! 1 WANNA 
SEE THE GREEN GRASS 
GROW... THE BUTTERFLIES, 
THE AZURE BLUE SKY!
i l5nn5 0rr avicL0f
DANDELIONS... RAINBOWS!!!
amr.r8 nel c meLr omg
DISPELS ANY CONFUSION 
JffAtEHS MIGHT HAVE!,
AFTER LONG NEGOTIATIONS, THE 
EDITORS AND CHARACTERS OF PEtS 
HAVE COHE TO AN AGREEMENT 
CONCERNING FUTURE )
CENSORSHIP OF THIS 
COMIC STRIP.
WE KWE DECIDED TO BANISH 
CENSORSHIP AND OPT FOR A 
MORE UNOBTRUSIVE METHOC OF 
WARNING READERS ABOUT 
THE OFFENSIVE NATURE OF 
PEDS MATERIAL: THE 
V WARNING LAm!VV ,v_y
uN&m
9)80FOR)0

---------------------------------------------------

PJ.iR .ucCul F vuclRmeR wRssol glefRcaeCr F PI Eyces P--,
by Jim Meddick
ITS AN OPEN CASKETT...I DON'T THINK I CAN LOOK WITHOUT BRSMN6 PoWM VANPS069INS UKE A TUE BABY. ^
TRY ID BE STROMS g&jlNWNTY WOULD'VE J4o) 'S?. VJ&KTED IT 1HAT/ 2? \ ;I ss?
HE HAP ATHEOpif ATHAT'S SO BEAUTIFUL! TOST IH HEAMEN J Hu, HW, HUH, HUH
THERS>P BE V- _________-
UNLISTED CABLE \ , %J/ 
WnH THE POSSIBLE tEXCEPTION OF THE hfffW v PLAYBOY ^ Jy LJ/^
2m5nnriF jAwyi|t,
Ht LCKS...SO AT PENCE ..SORT... 
UN\... WHAT'S W,T |M HIS HAND?.
IT'S k \ 
UNIVERSAL \ REMOTE.wovny
SPECIFICALLY 
REQUESTED i 
ONE IN HIS I 
WILL... M
I HAVEN'T FULLY COfo&TO TERMS WITH 
htoNTY'S CEfiTH VET...I KEEP F6ELINS 
HIS PRESENCE... AWT) EXPECTIN6 HIM TO 
SHOW UP AT ANY MOMENT, EVEM THOUSH I KNOW TW JUST... J----------------------------
XPr^r 
1 KIAYBE IT'S BEST You PUT \ 
AWAY YOUR CAPDBOVRQ /" ^
CUTOUT OF Pg-VUe& (WHY?
, HESIAAM UNTIL AFTF. V 
\ THE PERIOD OF /7' 
; M0URNJIN&... j "
NWV?elfsz
ISTWFT..?I UNDERCTM TUE SERVICE 
HERE 15 
QUITE 
COMPREHENSIVE.
\VI1=K
WOW. DEATH IS-iUSF UKe EUERYONE 
SAYS IT IS...XT'S LIKE MOMS TUNNEL,! 
AND THERE'S ABR\SKT\NHITE LIGHT 
MHOTHER6UP-te^
AMI \NOTEXAWMISISA V W \P0DSAFAM0R. 
IN PLACE WHERE PEOPLE^SCHEDULED\ WHENYOU GO 
ftEMW WHO DIE Go, SET REIMS,) T0B60N BA, ASK THE
s------.KTHEN 60 ON TALK SHOWS./'RICKI LAKE. NEXT PERSON
Bp ----ur~ NEXT / UP P 6RIN6Baffe;* <" V /^JESPAt'/A vp.slw,
UoW To TELL 
WE'VE BECoME Too 
!UPMESPEO HGU.' 
IRDCVRIYRR",,,
WEREWHERE
^J-GME
I
VI1=K
AS YOU CAN S66 BY OUR CARTKM LDN66UIT/ 
CHART, YOU'RE NOT AS HEALTHY AS SOWS. EUT 
THANKS TO THE LOYAL READERS OFTHEMJBWE 
DAILY 6AiEriE,YOU'RE STTLLAUMEAND KICKINS
blAFlApsw
Sf4FSApsSlf
YESTERDAY
WHATS THAT ONE THAT STARTS IN THE 
MESOZOIC ERA* AWP EXTENDS OUT 
riLL THE END OF TIME?
s ^V^Vc?.'
SO IP THIS ISN'T HEAMEN,POES 
THAT WEAN M NOT TOTALLY 
T'S CHECK x 
i^MlT I YOUR CHART...,
CORPORATE
INSPIRATION
TODAY...SURVIVE
THEDAY
-DmWEffmAw
Vll=/
1997 Wiley Miller 1st. by Waihlngfor Post Writers froup WES SITE: www.waihinatonpoit.cow/wiley E-wail: WileytOOneaol.com
ITS Am'S 8RWN.IU \<SCCS> UM>,W\U ! 
PLANNING TO CLOUE \ ARE YCN INHUMAN? 
MONTY'S1 BODY FROM PNA HAiYOU NOSENSt 
I FOUND IN AN OLD TOENAIL) OF RESPECT?'CUPPINGjTHEN REIMPLANT A-__HIS BRAIN AND BRING /
.Hitt BACK TO UFS... / i jA-s'
XCW MEAN \ HO. RESPECT FOR THE FACT THAT
htrwte7 W8h . 78 tKorb -8o y eK- ervyr7
THE NATURAL. \ BARELY FINISH M SECONP 
ORDER OF I HELPING OF fAACAROUl ANP
LIFE AND K-r CUEESf! t**---------'*?
DEATH .ND / *.
GOP AND / x |lV naan? y >5 "L -s
UH-UH-UH-.HOLPON. 
NOT SO FAS.T..WHATRE 
MOU HIDING THERE?
THE NEW, IMPROVED 
TAXPAYER-FRIENDLY 
INTERNAL REVENUE 
SERVICE...
\vii=y
WIlsKVJHERE...WHERE YOU'RE IN A JiR IN Af* I? urdaDs981 IAB ...BUT DON'T , S01N60N? /W0RRi...mCU3NIH6 ^----lr----A YOU r1Rljo,,,
< see... I'VE 93T Your
CLONEINABKWHERMAL 
TANK WITH A SALINE 
NUTRIENT FEEP ANP 
\ AN ENHANCED 
\SSOWm-HORMOUEN. RESULATOR-vx
So \M4KT IF IT'S 
UTTERLY USELESS? 
JUST DRAPE A 
BUSTY YoUNG 
A8(K- 8vth y7k
PEOPLE WILL THINK 
IT'LL MAKE TUEM 
SEXY IF TUEY 
OWN ONE, AND,
VOILKWE'RE MILLIONAIRES
HP
WHAT'S
THIS
TO?...
s8vthr
YWJR
GROIN.
TUE DMNN OF 
M5VERT15IN& WON
1997 Wiley Miller dlit. by Waihlngton Foit Writers (roepWEf SITE: www.washiBQtonpoit.cow/wiley E-mail: Wileytooneaol.com
by M/chael Fry & T. Lewis
AFTER A HARD PAY'S NI&HT SPRSAPING 
FILTH ...CHECK INTO YOUR NEW FOUR-STAR 
DIGS OVERLOOKING EL RANCHO CAMELOTS SCENIC LANDflLL.
I COOL..BUT... i HEY/...
I THERES NO
ff CHECK-OUTf TIME/
ITS THIS KIND OF APATHY THAT'S TEARM THE 
COUNTRY APART/
HEY/ FUR-FACE/ WHAT ABOUT US 
BUGS?... WHERE CO WE GET TO k UVE?
V OH, WE HAVE A LOVELY RETIREMENT RESORT JUST 
v FOR YOU/ .
ROOM SERVICE/...NIGHTLY TURN- POWN/...STICKY... ..I VitAW MAGIC FINGERS/...
^ISN'T  THERE A MEETING TONIGHT?
...ANP A COUPLE OF Y ALL THOSE IN FAVOR DOZEN TO MAKE A / OF TRASH RECEPTACLES NOT BIG DIFFERENCE. EXCEEDING THE UNIFORM \ HEIGHT OF * INCHES ^-------------SAY YOm >
LOOKS N LIKE NO ONE SHO'rO.60TTA BE 
A TYPO.
YET, ALL IT 
TAKES MONE PERSON TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE/
WHAT IF THEY CALLED A HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION MEETING AND NO PEOPLE SHOWED UP?___________________________
I'M TRULY UPLIFTED BY THIS SPIRIT OF 
COOPERATION.NOT LIKE THE HUMANS AT ALL.
GOOD IDEA, NORM...I APPOINT YOU SECRETARY 
. OF THE INTERIOR.
1 RJ..WHY DO THE 
WEASELS GET PREFERRED TEE- TIMESON ALTERNATE \ TUESDAYS?
DOESN'T THIS ALL SEEM A TAD HARSH?
NO, YOU GET AN OFFICIAL 
POLAROID.
...VERNE, IT WAS A FAIR 
LOTTERY.
YA DON'T MESS WITH 
THE TOP BUNK..
/^..AND X 
/ ANOTHER \ f THING...YOU PROMISED//ff* THE HANCOCK TWINS' TOP . 
\ BUNK/ J
...IT SEEMS TO ME THIS WHOLE IDEA OF INTERIOR 
ACCESS NEEDS FURTHER DISCUSSION.
Y AU IN FAVOR Of HALOGEN NIGHT-LIGHTS I /d>P/ IN THE KITCHENS SAY (K  AYE/ >>-  ^
of DO I GET kCAR?...t\1' 
gl STAFF?... AN OFFICIAL -N. PORTRAIT? ,
I sHftp/^r^-
^ HEY!.. WHO DID GET THE TOP BUNK?
CcrtToHSAU/S
tHE MINUTE WILL SHOWwo reo PL e
WVW? UP FOR THE. 
HOMEOWNERS' A460M10H KEETIN6...uoumR".
AS YOU CAN SEE, IN CUR NEW 
ZONING PLAM...
I DON'T SEE \ 
ANY.. .UH.. FACILITIES ) ...FOR THE HUM ANS..  J
'Vt^WE DE3TI y^~\ 
( BUSHES HERE, HERE I I AND HERE...
HOW ELSE ARE WE GOING FA YF TO AFFORD TO BUILD THE 
FITNESS CENTER?
*SI6HZ...^ FOR A SECOND THERE, WE ALL ^ FORMED A COMMUNITY THAT FORGED A 
COVENANT TO CREATE k SPECIAL v PLACE WHERE WE COULD UVE IN . 
X. HARMONY.
f YEAH...K1NDA LIKE THAT 
TIME ON GREENACRES WHEN ARNOLD THE PIG RAN FOR MAYOR;,_____ >
V-------(^EXACTLY..
FOR ONE BRIEF, SHINING MOMENT IT WAS... .p ...AND THE HUMANS WILL BE 
ZONED HERE..HAMELOT.FROM NOW ON, ANIMALS WILL 
RESIDE HERE...
WHATD YOU THINK?...SQUASH COURTS GROW ON 
TREES?
ARNCX.0 WAS C>AT THEaims. Agfif/

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 91, Issue 22 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania14 April 1997
Sports: Up and Coming...
Track & Field 
At Robert Morris, April 16 
IUP Invite, April 19 
Rugby 
Versus Greensburg, April 19 
Tennis 
Home, April 14-15 
Ultimate Frisbee 
Sectionals; Princeton, NJ, April 26-27
Send sporting event information to cc8p@andrew.cmu.edu
Play time...
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor
Track team tunes
up for UAAs at IUP
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Contributing Editor
The earliest runners wore no clothes. 
Thank Zeus for Nike shorts, because the 
earliest runners wouldnt have made it 
in the harsh 20 degree conditions that 
faced the CMU track team at the Indi
ana University of Pennsylvania meet 
last Saturday.
[The meet] was all in a driving rain; it 
didnt let up at all, said Coach Dario 
Donatelli. I was happy [with the teams 
performance.]
My whole bag and everything in it 
was soaked after ten minutes outside,
winning height was 13 feet 6 inches, a 
height Rikowski can normally clear.
However, senior Ron Polcawich gave 
an able performance in the difficult 
steeplechase, placing third in 10:00 min
utes.
Sophomore Maureen McGranaghan 
won the 3,000-meter rim with a time of 
10:44. Junior Yumiko Yamada placed 
first in the high jump at five feet.
[This] was another tune-up meet, 
getting ready for conference champion
ships, said Donatelli. CMU will host 
UAA championships on the weekend of 
April 26-27.
The team also made thunderous
[The meet] was all in a driving rain; it 
didnt let up at all. 
 Coach Dario Donatelli
Crew hits water, women to open at Capitol Classics
JBy PAUL BOOTHE
[Tartan Personnel Manager
1 Despite poor water-conditions, 
^.the CMU Crew team has been 
| preparing for the spring sprint 
\ season with rigorous indoor train| ing and an intense spring break 
training session. Yesterday sigj naled the beginning of this sea| son, as the team competed against 
;Duquesne University, John 
Carroll University, Case West; em Reserve University, andhostj ing school University of Pitts
burgh. CMU fielded a mens Var
sity-Four, Novice-Four, and Nov
ice-Eight squad. Coach Cassa 
Hadley said, Were really proud 
to be fielding a Novice MensEight this season  [it is] the 
first one in awhile.
The weather was really bad, 
said Hadley. According to the 
coach, the meet was supposed to 
feature 2,500-meter sprints in the 
river, but the weather forced meet 
organizers to run 1,000-meter 
sprints in a channel. The chan
nel only allows two boats across, 
which would affect the outcomes, 
said Hadley. Varsity-Four was 
, third with 3:02, but the two teams
ahead of them  who finished in 
2:54 and 2:57had the opportu
nity to race against each other. 
The Novice-Four was also third 
at 3:04. The mens Novice-Eight 
was part of an exciting race with 
Pitt. [They were] well in the lead, 
but someone lost their seat, said 
Hadley. The team came in sec
ond, by half a second, to Pitt in 
2:54.
The Varsity-Four boat is 
coxswained by sophomore A1 
Klein, with rowers senior Ben 
Fry, junior Klaus Moser, junior 
JefFWiley, and senior Peter Moore 
filling the position of the injured 
sophomore Julian Kinal. The 
Novice-Four is coxswained by 
sophomore Amy Ng, with rowers 
sophomore Brendan Howell, 
freshman Jeff Beene, sophomore 
Darius Rad, and freshman Greg 
Niejadlik. The Novice-Eight 
squad has the same five novices, 
along with freshman Adam 
DiCaprio, sophomore Martin 
Richards, freshman Tim 
Machuga, and sophomore cox
swain Joanne Wei.
Besides being the start of the 
season, this scrimmage was im
portant because it gave the team
a sense of where they stood 
against the local competition.
The spring races are 2,000- 
meter sprints where teams line 
up six across and race for the 
finish line  whoevers bow 
crosses the finish line first wins. 
This is a big difference from the 
fall head races, which are 5,000- 
meter endurance runs where 
teams race against the clock for
the fastest time. Spring races can 
be intense, as they typically last 
six to eight minutes depending 
on the crew and water conditions, 
and the team can see where the 
competition is at all times.
Although the team was not able 
to get on the water at all from 
Thanksgiving to spring break, the 
team was still busy preparing for 
the season. Its been a pretty 
basic winter, said Hadley. Weve
put in all of the basic components 
to be able to win races in the 
spring. The rowers do a lot of 
weight-training and cross-train
ing to keep in shape and build 
muscle. A huge part of the winter 
training is working on the indoor 
rowing machines, or erg ma
chines. This gets hard on the en
tire team, however, because by 
the end of the winter, the rowers
start to get sick of the indoor 
training, and the coaches begin 
to run out of activities to have 
them do. By the end, Hadley says, 
it [gets] to the point where 
everyones real itchy to get back 
on the water. At the end of the 
winter training, Hadley said ev
eryone had made some real 
progress in strength and condi
tioning, but really needed to work 
on moving a boat in the water.
The crew team finally got their 
chance to hit the water over spring 
break, when they held approxi
mately five days of six to eight 
hours of rowing a day in a whirl
wind training session. There they 
concentrated on re-acclimating 
themselves to the water and ac
tually rowing, and then they 
moved on to working on tech
nique and racing strategies. 
Hadley said, We were set up to 
start the season when spring 
break was over.
The team has been fortunate 
this year to have a focused novice 
group that started with the team 
in the winter, which Hadley says 
takes a lot of dedication. This will 
lead to a strong Novice squad 
next semester because they can 
learn how to row now so that they 
will be ready to compete from day 
one next semester, said Hadley. 
We are really happy with the 
way that they are up-and-com
ing.
With this scrimmage, the team 
has kicked off the short spring 
season. April 20 will be the 
womens season opener as both 
teams compete in the Capitol 
Classics in Washington, D.C.,
hosted by Catholic University. 
This will be a new race for the 
team, but expectations are high. 
We should fare pretty well there, 
Im anticipating, said Hadley. 
Its a race geared for smaller 
programs like ours. On Satur
day, April 26, the crew squads 
will travel to the Governors Cup 
in Charleston, West Virginia, fol
lowed by the Mid-Atlantic Cham
pionship on the Occoquan in Vir
ginia on the following weekend. 
Hadley said, This is the race we 
look to hit our stride at. All of the 
squads will compete at this race, 
and it will mark the end of the 
season for many of the teams.
The best crews will finish the 
season at the Dad Vail in Phila
delphia from May 8-10. Hadley 
calls this race the most presti
gious race we go to all year. 
There, they will compete against 
some of the strongest schools 
within their level of competition
 schools like Temple, Michi
gan, Drexel, Army, and 
Georgetown. Approximately 150 
schools will be sending their best 
squads to this race. Hadley said, 
This race is what everyone has 
been building to all season.
We should fare pretty well there, Im 
anticipating... its a race geared for 
smaller programs like ours. 
 Crew Coach Cassa Hadley
HCuc SrSseaC aSocRa doc lRb vwg SsnN
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Editor-In-Chief
Cyclists looking for some competition 
can break out the spandex and aerody
namic helmets  the CMU Cycling Club 
competed for the first time at the 
. National Collegiate Cycling Con
ference (NCCC) last Saturday at 
Bucknell University with cyclist 
. John Murray, a sophomore civil 
land environmental engineering 
major placing first in the 2-3 mile
road race. The race is a huge loop _____
on which cyclists average 20 miles  
per hour.
It was my first ever road race  I was 
happy with it, said Murray. I found a 
path over a hill and managed to pull away 
from the rest of the people and stay ahead.
He went to a lot of trouble to organize
the trip [to the race], and once he;got there 
he did a great job, said club president 
Kyle Oppenheim, a senior civil and envi
ronmental engineering major. Hopefully, 
if [Murray] keeps winning, we can pull up 
and become competitive.
This was the race that counted 
the most. 
 Kyle Oppenheim 
Cycling Club President
Murray also competed in the 25 lap 
critrium race with less success  he fell 
over another rider during the course of 
the race.
Murray competed and won in the pres
tige race  teams receive twice as many
points for placing as in other NCCC races. 
Murray received 23 points for the road 
race. He was the only one who got any 
points from CMU, said Oppenheim. This 
was the race that counted the most. 
We were happy to move up on the list, 
said Newcomb.
Oppenheim said that 50 riders 
from 50 different schools com
peted in the race.
Most of the funding we get 
goes towards things like new 
outlets in the tool room [where
______ students can fix there bikes], so a
trip to a race comes out of our 
own pockets, said senior computer sci
ence major Matthew Newcomb who placed 
13th in the road race.
For this first race, Murray, Oppenheim 
and Newcomb were the only members of 
Please see CYCLIST, page 15
Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor
Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor
timate Frisbee team competes at tournaments 
skend. However, the Lacrosse Club looks to play again after having 
two games canceled last week. The Track Team has three meets in the next 
two weeks. CMUs Rugby Club will scrum again this weekend after almost 
a month off.said junior Rick Rikowski. Despite the 
rain, both the mens and womens teams 
generally fared well at the meet.
Junior Nathan Gill placed second in 
400-meter intermediate hurdles at the 
meet with a time of 58.7 seconds. It 
wasnt too bad actually, it was just harder 
to warm up, said Gill. Some people just 
ran in circles in the gym.
According to the hurdler, although it 
was raining, the weather in general 
was better than the teams Wednesday 
meet at Bethany, West Virginia. The 
rain seemed to create problems for some 
field events, especially the pole 
vault.The weather definitely affected 
them, said Gill.
It slowed down the bus ride, said 
Rikowski, who no-heighted for the sec
ond consecutive meet. Well, we got there 
at 11:55, the pole vault started at 12, so 
that was that. The pole vaulter takes 
an abnormally long amount of time to 
warm up, usually about 45 minutes. The
dashes in the 5,000-meter run. Sopho
more Kristo Kriechbaum (15:35), fresh
man Kenn Oldham (15:37), and senior 
Seb Zeisler (15:48) placed third, fourth, 
and fifth respectively in the mens 5K. 
Senior Becky Buchheit rolled, fully 
clothed, into first place with a time of 
19:07 in the womens 5,000-meters.
Grave misfortune has also stuck the 
team: freshman Dave Shafer injured his 
foot. Also, junior Peter Hunt came down 
with a nefarious bug and was unable to 
compete in the high jump. Donatelli 
doubts that Shafer will be able to com
pete in the upcoming meets on Wednes
day at Robert Morris or next week, 
again at IUP. I know that [Shafer] 
has begun to run again, said Donatelli. 
Hunts condition is unknown.
The team did well, considering the con
ditions. They kept warm and maintained 
high speeds. Imagine, if you will, the wind 
chill if they had all gone in the buff. Its a 
striking and forlorn picture.

---------------------------------------------------

PI.iR .ucCul F vuclRmeR wRssol glefRcaeCr F PI Eyces P--,
John Henry Cardinal Newman Lecture Series
The Pittsburgh Oratory
Tosd ycojemr Vooja 
iua RrR od CiR .emRc
Life's a Sport
By Chris Cannon
This weekend, Tiger Woods made 
history in stylish fashion; becoming 
the first African-American, the first 
Asian-American, and youngest player 
ever to win the Masters. On top of 
that, he did i t with style, with a record 
breaking 12 stroke margin of victory 
and a shooting a 270 four-day- total on 
the course, another record. Earlier in
that mostly he just stole stuff from 
him that may one-day (like next week) 
be price-less collectables. When I re
alized how corrupt and shallow he 
was, I stooped to insults. Mostly I 
reminded him of how much money 
Tiger is going to eventually donate to 
the school after the guy graduates.
After you tire of this, I challenged 
him to a game of basketball, just so I 
could say I played against a Division I 
athlete (even if it wasnt in his scholar
ship sport). The 5 foot 9 inch Asian 
golfer with love-handles that plays 
with his glasses on fared surprisingly 
well. Mostly I pondered whether Tiger 
would be any better at hoops.
What sort of athlete is Tiger Woods 
anyway? Recently, prominent report
ers on ESPN compared his accom
plishments to the young Mike Tyson, 
Magic Johnson, and even Lew 
Alcindor. They used superlatives such
"So whats its like to talk to someone 
who played with Tiger Woods?
the semester, I had the rare priviledge, 
not of talking with Woods himself, but 
with one of his former golf-mates at 
Stanford University.
So instead of the usual drivel where 
a column is a tertiary rant on pro
sports or world-famous athletes, this 
will actually be a secondary source. I 
talked to a guy who played with the 
Tiger! (The players name is with-held 
to protect the guilty.)
So whats its like to talk to someone 
who played with Tiger Woods? Mostly 
its boring. Thrilling at first, like the 
beginning of The English Patient, but 
(like the rest of The English Patient) 
very, very boring. You may be inter
ested to know that Tiger Woods never 
hit a hole-in-one in college.
You find out things, like the fact that 
this guy never beat Tiger, not once and
as prodigy, (a title usually reserved 
for violinist) master, (a compliment 
typically given to a few chess-players 
in the world) and even lauded him as 
possibly the Michael Jordan of the 
21st century (a mantle almost exclu
sively placed on basketball players).
The one question I wanted to ask 
the guy who played the links with the 
Tiger is: Who is Tiger Woods?
The anti-christ to the good-ol* boys 
game of golf, the sports messiah, or 
just some guy who had his first club 
before his first birthday and can ac
curately drive a golf-ball over 335 
yards, on average? Oh, I never really 
got toknow him, said my source. And 
I dont think we ever will.
Chris Cannon is a junior CS major 
in need of sporting assistance.
Hockey needs a hip-check rule
On the Net
By Chris Adukaitis
There has been much debate around 
the NHL recently regarding the hipcheck. For those of you not familiar 
with hockey terminology, a hip-check 
occurs when a defenseman uses his hip 
or rear-end to check an opposing player 
between his waist and his knees. The 
manuveur bears a similarity to methods 
used in football, notably to the chopblock utilized by offensive linemen and 
the technique that defenders  
especially the smaller ones  
use to tackle. Although it is dif
ficult to execute, the hip-check 
is a very effective way of stop
ping the opposing player, 
especially when near the 
boards.
The problem that some play 
ers and coaches have with 
the hip-check is that 
defensemen are more fre
quently aiming for the 
knees of forwards, some
times dropping to their 
knees or all fours to trip 
up the opponent. This can 
be very dangerous  
sending the forward 
head-over-heels, taking 
his legs out, or (much the same 
as in football) blowing out a 
knee.
Proponents of the hip-check claim 
that it is a necessary weapon to defend 
against todays bigger, stronger players. 
Its much easier to take out someone of 
Eric Lindross stature if you hit him low 
and dont stand up. Ask any football 
coach; you gotta aim low. I agree, but 
not the knees.
Another factor for keeping the
hip-check is that it has been in the game 
for as long as anyone can remember. 
Proponents will tell you that if you take 
it out, you might as well stop the fight
ing. They may well both be large parts of 
hockey, but rarely does someone suffer 
an injury that is season-ending (much 
less one that 
ends a ca
reer) from a 
fight.
Which 
leads to the 
reason the 
hip-check 
should be
Its much easier to take out 
someone of Eric Lindross 
stature if you hit him low and 
dont stand up.
NHL playoffs were finalized.
This years Stanley Cup champions 
will come from the Eastern Conference, 
so hereg a quick preview:
Eastern Conference:
The New Jersey Devils (1) will domi nate, as in! 
Dominali 
Hasek, the: 
Montreal' 
Canadiens 
(8) who 
havent! 
shown much' 
life all seaj
outlawed: intent to injure. The intent to 
injure is why the NFL has outlawed 
chop-blocks from behind and levies fines 
against deliberate shots at the knees. 
That is what it basically comes down to 
when guys like Ulf 
Samuellsson and Darius 
Kasparaitis pin a players 
legs against the boards or 
knock his feet out from unhim. They are
part in 
sport.
any
/S
son. Buffalo (2) should have no trouble 
with newcomers Ottawa (7). If its not a 
sweep, the Senators will be lucky. At 
least they finally made it into the play
offs.
The Philadelphia Flyers (3) and Pitts
burgh Penguins (6) should be a greatij 
series. The problem is, contrary to t 
mid-season hype following rookie Patrick! 
Lalime, the Penguins dont have any! 
defense or a goalie. When Hextall isi 
trying to take playing stupid, the Flyers arent much!! 
that player off better off, but at least they have some; 
the ice, perma- blue-liners. Philly will win in six or seven 
nently. And games. The Florida Panthers (4) meeti 
that brand of the New York Rangers (5) for the first' 
play has no time ever in the playoffs. Johfli 
Vanbiesbrouck and the trapping Pani> 
thers will try and stop Gretzky, Messier,j 
and Leetch from lighting the lamp. De^ 
fense wins championships, as well as! 
playoff series, so Im gonna have to goi 
with the Panthers on this one.
Playoff
predictions:
After this 
weekends 
games, the 
match
ups for 
this 
years
The Stanley Cup Finals:
The Devils will survive the Panthers' 
and the Flyers will up-end the Sabres!' 
So what really matters is that Philly will 
have to face Jersey in the Finals for thq1 
chance to dethrone the Avalanche.
Chris Adukaitis is a senior civil 
and environmental engineering 
major who cant believe the NHL 
suspended Lindros to protect ihe\ 
likes of Ulfie and Shane Churla. 
Bring on the Pens. Sorry Mario, 
its been a great ride, but the links 
are calling.
"Conflict As Graced Opportunity"
Susan Stangl, Ph.D.
Adjunct Professor, St. Vincent Seminary 
Retreat Director, St. Paul's Retreat Center
Conflict is experienced at some time 
and to some degree in the life of 
every person. It is a fact of life. 
This evening's presentation will focus 
on conflict in the workplace 
as a graced opportunity for growth in 
both spiritual and professional life. 
Consideration will be given to the 
crisis of meaning and the opening to 
creative possibility which working-life 
conflict occasions, depending upon 
the perspective one brings.
Friday, April 18, 1997,
7:30 P.M. to 8:30 P.M. 
at The Oratory, Ryan Catholic Newman Center
R.S.V.P. to 681-3181 by Wednesday, April 16, 1997
Discussion and light refreshments will follow.
Join us. We look forward to your participation.
The Pittsburgh Oratory
4450 Bayard Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (Oakland)
http://www.hugo.com

---------------------------------------------------

.iR .ucCul F vuclRmeR wRssol glefRcaeCr F PI Eyces P--,P:
Swim teams earn honors
The CMU mens and womens swim 
teams received Academic All-America 
honors from the College Swimming 
Coaches Association of America 
(CSCAA) for their classroom perfor
mance during the 1996 fall semester.
To earn Academic All-America hon
ors, a team must earn a combined gradepoint average of 2.8 (on a 4.0 scale) or 
better. The men had a 3.10 grade-point 
average, which ranked 11th in NCAA 
Division III. The womens team earned 
a 2.93 to rank 42nd.
De la Hoya outpoints Whitaker
Oscar de la Hoya used a methodical 
attack and displayed many of the skills 
that make him what many regard as 
boxings best fighter to easily outpoint 
Pemell Whitaker and capture the 
World Boxing Council welterweight 
title tonight at Las Vegas.
De la Hoya remained unbeaten, im
proving to 24-0, and while he didnt 
rely on his trademark power punches 
to hurt Whitaker, he did enough to 
win all three judges scorecards.
Judge Chuck Giampa had the bout 
115-111, while Dalby Shirley and 
Jerry Roth scored it, 116-110.
Tiger Woods wins by 12 strokes
Tiger Woods became the first African-American to win a major champi
onship and the youngest to capture the 
Masters, walking away with a recordsetting 12-stroke victory at the Augusta 
National Golf Club in Georgia.
Woods 18-under-par 270 set a 72- 
hole course record and completed his 
devastating mastery of fabled Augusta 
National, which has tormented play
ers twice his age with 20 times his 
experience. The 12-stroke victory mar
gin is the largest ever at the Masters, 
shattering the previous record of 9, 
setin 1965 by JackNicklaus, the player 
whose legacy Woods seems ready to 
inherit. Tom Kite was second for the 
third time at Augusta, carding a 2- 
under 70 today to finish 6-under.
Cubs tie mark for losses
A miserable start for the Chicago 
Cubs reached landmark proportions in 
against the Atlanta Braves at Wrigley 
Field. The Cubs tied the modem Na
tional League record for losses to start 
a season with a 6-4 loss to the Atlanta 
Braves Sunday.
The Cubs are 0-10, tying the NL 
modem day record set by the Braves in 
1988. The all-time league mark is 0-11, 
set by the Detroit Wolverines in 1884. 
The major league record of 0-21 was set 
by the Baltimore Orioles in 1988.
Painkillers used widely in NFL
At least 10 percent of National Foot
ball League players reportedly are 
addicted to painkillers.
The New York Times reported that 
the use of painkillers is so widespread 
that some players hoard hundreds of 
pills and even trade tickets to NFL 
games with pharmaceutical workers to 
get their share ofthe drugs. Some spend 
weeks or months in the off-season get
ting rid of their dependency and deal
ing with withdrawal symptoms.
The game is played with pain, Jim 
Kelly, theformer Buffalo Bills quarter
back who announced his retirement in 
February, told the newspaper. If you 
cant play in pain you should be playing 
golf, like Im doing a lot of now. I think 
thats the mentality of players.
hsurRca aScuANsR doc GpE ioloca
The Alley Oop
By Chris Cannon
Heres a season awards column with a 
theme: anagrams. See if you can un
scramble the letters before you figure 
out the star.
MVP: Rich ale jam don.
This guy not only creates his own shot, 
he assists his teammates and sets up his 
teammates for assists. Tim Hardaway 
has been the one mainstay in Miami, 
Karl Malone has done it against little 
opposition in the West, but the NBAs 
main man is Michael Jordan.
Most Improved: Ken-ran Veg-tit.
A whole host of Miami players have 
stepped up, but this years winner in
creased his scoring average (17.1 up 
from 10.4), rebounds per game (7.9 from 
4.0), assists (3.0 from 1.8), blocks (2.2 
from 1.6), steals, shot, and free-throw 
percentage: Kevin Gamett.
Sixth Man: Kadeem Hardison.
Just kidding, Rise Gal-thing. Toni 
Kukoc and John Starks are stars on 
talented teams, but we have to reward 
the effort of Chris Gatling.
Rookie of the Year: On All Ever-sin. 
In the past four games, the number one 
draft pick has given the voters 178 
(points) reasons why hes the number 
one rookie: Allen Iverson.
First Team All-NBA: In addition to 
Rich ale jam don, John-Ennis Kov (best 
point guard not playing point guard), Hi 
L.L. Rant G (triple-double machine), 
Lame OK Narl (who puts the power in 
power forward), andMoo-leek Jawa-hun
(famous for his Dream-shake) led 
teams that this year would otherwise 
struggle to reach the post-season. (Kevin 
Johnson, Grant Hill, Karl Malone, and 
Hakeem Olajuwon respectively) 
Second Team: Honst Not-jock is still 
the best pure point. Glen Rice and Mitch 
Richmond put up gaudier numbers, but 
Lap-well Re-trells has the complete game. 
Scottie Pippen has slipped, but Sony ant 
Ham-on turned on his game after being 
traded. Lots of forwards put up big num
bers, but Sir R. Ebb Chew wins on talent 
alone. Shaq has game when healthy, 
but former Georgetown center 
Diet-mom Kum-be-bo is the de
fensive stopper with a develop
ing offense. (John Stock
ton, Latrell 
Sprewell,
Anthony 
Mason,
Chris
Webber, and 
Dikembe Mutombo)
Offensive Player 
of the year (small):
Nicer Gel. He hits from 
outside, and often too:
Glen Rice.
Offensive Player 
of the year (big):
Sir Clint Ant ate 
her. On a team 
with defensive 
stoppers, he 
provides the 
points and the 
matchup prob
lems. The wind be
neath the wings of the 
Hawks: Christian Laettner.
Defensive Player of the Year
(small): Yar-yat Pong. Mookie Blaylock 
leads in steals, but the glove is the real 
deal: Gary Payton.
Defensive Player of the Year (big): 
Hey lads, Brawn. Diet-mom Kum-be-bo 
is a force, but this winner is gaining 
respect after cutting Charles Barkley 
with a bony knee: Shawn Bradley 
Best Dribbler: The NVE (not very 
exciting) ass. Mugsey Bogues and Tim 
Hardaway have their own step, but this 
award goes to a Canadian. If only he 
didnt have two point guards 
playing in front of him: Steve 
Nash.
Most Spirited: Bap hit
sore RR. Another seven-: 
foot Chicago Bull win
ner this year. Do they 
sign these guys to 
keep them off Social 
Security? Robert 
Parish.
Most Likely to 
Succeed: Jane, a 
mere lion. Like 
last years winner, 
another high schooler, 
but not the one that first comes to 
mind. But is there room on 
Portlands talent-laden team? 
Jermaine ONeal.
Coach of the year: Le Rat Yip. 
From Showtime to Broadway to the 
beach, this guy runs a tight ship. Other 
guys have more wins, 
but nobody can 
squeeze them out 
like Pat Riley.
Chris Cannon is 
a junior CS ma
jor. His real AllNBA team would 
consist of four for
wards and Jor
dan, but nobody 
would even believe 
that, so he gave you 
expected blurb.
ADMINISTRATION
Director  Mike Mastroianni 
x8-2214; Assistant Director  
Mike Grzywinski x8-2214; Intra
mural Secretary  Michelle 
Mattax8-2053; Intramural Presi
dent Matt Wilhams 621-8987; 
Womens PresidentPia Soriano 
681-4031
Important Dates
April 15  IM board meeting 
11:30 am gym conference room.
April 17  IM swim meet 4:30 
pm UC Pool.
April 21-22IM fencing tour
nament.
April30IMtrackmeet6:30pm.
May 3  Co-rec kickball and 
ultimate frisbee tournament.
Sports In Season
Softball
The games began on Tuesday, 
April 1. Games will be played on 
Monday through Thursday nights 
and Sunday afternoons. Rainpiits will be determined at the 
fields. The complete list of make 
up games is posted outside the 
JM Office in the gym.
| Squash
The Intramural Department 
squash matches will be played at 
the UC court C. The teams are 
reminded to report the scores to 
she IM office. They may be phoned 
in or emailed. All scores not re
ceived will be considered double 
forfeits.
Indoor Soccer
The indoor soccer season bejan on Wednesday, April 2 in 
Jkibo Gym. Teams playing the 
jrst game are reminded to help 
)ut out the nets, and the last
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S
NATIONAL PARKS
SUMMEB/SUSOMJU/F-T 
Discover how to work in National Parks, Forests, and Wildlife Preserves. 
Excellent benefits &I bonuses! Ask us how today!
teams are to help put the goals 
away.
Call Pool, Table Tennis, and 
Euchre
All schedules are available in 
the IM office. Please play all 
games as scheduled and report 
scores to the IM office. All scores 
not reported will be considered 
double forfeits.
Water Basketball
The finals are tonight at 9 pm at 
the UC pool. The DU word team 
will play SAE Aku for the title.
Floor Hockey
The playoffs are under way and 
will continue tonight with the 
minors quarterfinals. Games are 
played in Thistle Hall. The finals 
will take place on Wednesday 
April 23.
Sports Upcoming
Track
The 1997 IM track meet will 
take place at Gesling Stadium on 
Wedneday, April 30 at 6:30 pm. 
Keep an eye on this column for a 
list of events.
Swim Meet
The IM swim meet will take 
place at the UC pool at 4:30 pm 
this Thursday, April 17. The fol
lowing events will be held. The 
50 free, 100 medley, 50 fly, 100 
free, 50 back, 50 breast, 200 free 
as well as the 200 free and med
ley relays.
Fencing
The IM fencing meet will take 
place in Thistle Hall on Mon
day and Tuesday, April 21-22. 
Contact the IM office for more 
details.
Ultimate Frisbee & Co-Rec 
Kickball
The frisbee and kickball tour
naments will take place on Sat
urday May 3 at the Stadium and 
IM fields. The due date has been 
pushed back to April 17. Brack
ets will be posted by April 25.
All Sports Update (through 
Badminton)
MENS
1. BETA 2592
2. SAE 2200
3. TSA 1625
4. TX 1492
5. TODDS TEAM 1300
WOMENS
1. TARTAN HOOPERS 1341
2. FLYING OS 750
3. PIONEERS 567
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKI
Cyclists make a splash at first 
competition, place first in race
CYCLING, from page 13 team. Right now we dont re- fore, this was Newcombs first
the cycling club to compete but ally bike together as an orga- competition. Newcomb bikes an 
they hope to bring more people nized group, said Newcomb. average of 150-200 hours a
to the next com
petition which 
will be at Cornell 
University next 
Saturday.
The cycling club 
has 35 active 
members, most of 
whom bike mainly for recre
ational purposes. Oppenheim 
said members are beginning to 
show interest in racing as a
...a trip like this comes out of 
our own pockets
 Matthew Newcomb, cyclist
Both Newcomb and Murray 
have been biking recreationally 
for five or six years.
While Murray has raced beweek, depend
ing on the 
weather. For 
me, its more 
like Im bored 
today, lets go 
for a ride, said 
Newcomb. 
Murray has participated in 
two-day rides from Seattle to 
Portland this was his first inter
collegiate race.
classified
Celebrate Tradition
With a
Balfour 
Class Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime, when 
theyre preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. 
Sports, academics, degrees, years of gradua
tion, and custom school designs can all be 
captured in your Balfour Class Ring ... a 
tradition of excellence since 1913!
The University Shoppe 
Monday & Tuesday 
April 21 & 22 
10 am-4 pm 
$35.00 Deposit
Sunday- .No one remembers in so many ways.
ADOPTION JOBS
Pregnant? Caring professional married 
couple hoping to accept healthy baby.
Willing to pay medical expenses. Call toll 
free (888) 921-BABY.
pOR SALE
Seized cars from 5175. Porsches, 
Cadillacs, Chevys, BMWs, Corvettes. Also, 
jeeps, 4wds. Your area. Toll free (800) 
218-9000 ext A-7862 for current listings.
Bay Networks software available: 
Optivity Internetwork 6.1, (one package), 
Optivity Design and Analysis 6.0, (two 
packages), new, unused gift. Compre
hensive network monitoring, control, di
agnostics, configuration and analysis, with 
RMON tools. $2000 each. Optivity LAN 
6.1 for UNIX -$1450. Descriptive info at 
HTTP://www.baynetworks.com. (Inex
pensive upgrade path). (412) 241-3512.
HOUSING
Need a place to live this summer? Great 
house on Beeler St. searching for summer 
subletters. Partially furnished, 3 bedrooms, 
dishwasher, washer dryer, 2 full bath
rooms, huge living room, garage, and 
basement. Convenient location that is 
ideal for 4-5 people. $1400/month. Con
tact Harriet at 862-2931 or 
hmk@andrew.cmu.edu.
$1000's Possible typing. Part time. At 
home. Toll free (800) 218-9000 ext. T7862 for listings.
$1000's Possible reading books. Part 
time. At home. Toll free (800) 218-9000 
ext. R-7862 for listings.
NOW! Summer Interns needed for busy 
interactive/web design house in New York 
City. Clients include PolyGram Records, 
McGraw-Hill Publishing, and the NBA. 
Should have graphic design background, 
HTML and Java knowledge a plus. Must 
like dogs! Please contact Monica Hsu at 
Lead Dog Design, (212) 462-4066 or email to Monica@LDD.com.
'The Frame" art space is now hiring 
interns for the 97-98 school year. Posi
tions available are: 2 co-directors, PR di
rector, and business director. Applicants 
must turn in a resume and a one page 
statement of intent (PR directors must 
alsosubmita portfolio). Materials must be 
turned in to CFA rm. 312 by 5pm on April 
18.
Europe $169 OW & world wide destina
tions cheap!! Mexico/Caribbean $189 RT. 
If you can beat these prices, start your 
own damn airline. Air-Tech, Ltd. (212) 
219-7000. info@aerotech.com. http:// 
campus.net/aerotech.
Rafting rapid fun. Exciting springtime 
rafting in WV. Students save $. Socials and 
retreats. Spring specials end May 16. Call 
Mary (800) 419-1442 for info. Employ
ment opportunities available.
Europe $175. Within USA $79-$129. 
Caribb./Mexico $199 r/t. Cheap fares 
worldwide, http://www.airhitch.org. 
Airhitch (800) 326-2009._____________
JRAVEL
Low student and faculty fares to interna
tional destinations. Good domestic fares, 
AYH, and Eurail passes. 9-5 M-F, 10- 
Noon Saturday. 4608 Winthrop Street. 
Off South Craig. Forum Travel 681 -4099.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.............$10.00/wk
21-50 words............$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
V

---------------------------------------------------

at the Midway Stage last Friday.
Brazil
will play at 7:30,10 pm, and
12:30 am on Thursday in
McConomy Auditorium.
Madame Satan
will play at 8 pm onfThursday and
Mtk2:30 pm on Friday al Ihe Carnegie
Museum of Art.
ilEvita
will play at 5,7:30.10 pm, and
12:30 am on Friday in
DH 2210.
Thousand Cranes
Awill play at 8 pm on Friday and
1:30 pm on Saturday
m
at the Carnegie Museum of Art.
A Few Good Men
Nwill play at 7:30,10 pm, and
12:30 am on Saturday in

DH 2210.
w
La Nouba des femmes
titfedu Mont Chenoua
will play at 3:30 pm'on Saturday at
the Carnegie Museum of Art.
Army of Darkness
will play at 8,10 pm, and
midnight on Sunday in
DH 2210.
Battle of Algiers
will play at 8 pm on Sunday at the

Carnegie Museinvof Art.
Rangeela 97 will be taking place in: 
Rangos Hall on Friday at 7 pm. It is a cel-; 
ebration being sp6nsored by Mayur thati 
will include dance performances, comedy: 
skits, music, a full-course meal, and lots 
more. For more information, contact 
Nikhil Kanodia at x2-2554 or email 
nk2g+@andrew.cmu.edu.
American Dream: On April 26, young 
adults can come together to discuss their 
ideas on the American Dream and what 
it means, at a non-partisan conference to 
be held in Hamburg Hall from 10 am to 2 
pm. The discussion is one of many being 
held across the country to mark the first 
annual National Day of Deliberation, 
sponsored by Philadelphias Foundation 
for Individual Responsibility and Social 
Trust that hopes to help people find com
mon ground. Everyone aged 18-35 is in
vited to attend. Anyone interested in par
ticipating or helping to organize the event 
can contact Cathy Senderling at 362-9781 
or email cs2+@andrew.cmu.edu.
mm

University CALENDAR
oncampus
Take Our Daughters To Work Day
takes place on April 24. The theme of the 
day is Five Years Of Work Tbwards A Life
time of Confidence. The Ms. Foundation 
for Women has created this theme to em
phasize the lifelong benefits girls receive 
by accompanying adults to work for a day. 
The program will include a luncheon with 
keynote speaker Molly Stahlman, 
Pittsburghs trolley entrepreneur and 
CMU graduate, and an afternoon of learn
ing opportunities, site visits, and presen
tations across campus. More information; 
about this event will be available on the 
official.cmu-news bboard. Registration 
packets will be available after April 1, 
1997 at the locations listed below:
 University Center Information Desk
 SEI Human Resources Office
 Mellon Institute Library
 PTC  First Floor Lobby
 Whitfield Hall Reception Area
If you are interested in volunteering, con
tact Mary L. Pretz-Lawson at x8-2642 or 
at mlpl+@andrew.cmu.edu.
April 14,1997April 20, 1997
You can advertise for 
free in The Tartan!
If you know of an event on or off campus 
that has relevance to the campus commu
nity, email auyoung@andrew.cmu.edu or mail 
it to The Tartan, Box 17 in the Carnegie 
Mellon University Center by the Wednesday 
before the date of the event.
Vox Populi Is a forum open to the entire 
campus communityl To submit a vox, sim
ply email It to auyoung@andrew.cmu.edu, 
send it to The Tartan, Box 17 via campus 
mail, or drop it in the Vox Populi drop box on 
the infamous Tartan Server.
Vox Populi is being sponsored this week 
by the National Council for Violence in TV, 
the fifth dentist, the number jt, the Fuschia 
Power Ranger, and my pinky toe.
Last Friday night at Carnival, students enjoyed themselves at the Brownie Mary concert.
aroundtown
Global Business and the Rule of Law
is the title of this years World Federalist 
Association of Pittsburgh Annual Spring 
Dinner. It will be taking place on May 6 
with the reception at 6:15 pm and dinner 
at 6:45 pm at the William Pitt Union Ball
room at the University of Pittsburgh. Ri
chard L. Fischer, executive vice president 
of the Aluminum Company of America, will 
be speaking. It will cost $35 for dinner and 
$5 for the lecture only. For more informa
tion, call Sohini Sinha at 471-7852.
Ukrainian Studies is looking for volun
teers for public demonstrations in defense 
of the freedom of speech. For more infor
mation, write to:
Ukrainian Studies 
PO Box 156 
Indiana, PA 15701
lectures&talks
Visiting Writers Series welcomes critically-acclaimed writer Mary Morris on 
Friday at 8 pm in the Adamson Wing of 
Baker Hall. The lecture is free of charge, 
and the public is invited to attend. Mor
ris, described by the New York Daily News 
as a superb stylist, is the author of nine 
books, including four novels, three collec
tions of short stories, and two travel mem
oirs. Her most recent novel, House Arrest, 
was published in May 1996 by Doubleday. 
A previous novel, A Mothers Love, was 
critically acclaimed by, among others, the 
Los Angeles Times Book Review as an ex
ample of the contemporary American novel 
at its best. Her numerous short stories 
and travel essays have appeared in such 
venues as The Paris Review, The New York 
Times, and Vogue. Morris has won a 
Guggenheim Award and the Rome Prize 
in Literature. For more information, con
tact Lisa Ritter at x8-5765.
Geological Architecture will be the topic 
of a lecture given by Stanley Saitowitz on 
Wednesday at 6 pm at the Carnegie Mu
seum of Art Theater. This will be the final 
lecture sponsored by the Department of Ar
chitecture for the spring semester. The lec
ture is free of charge and open to the pub
lic. For more information, call David 
Lionetti at x8-1541.
From the Primordial Soup to Pitts
burgh will be the topic of Astrophysicist 
Edward Rocky Kolbs lecture on April 15 
at 4:30 pm in the Mellon Institute second 
floor auditorium. Kolb, author of Blind 
Watchers in the Sky, will focus on the mo
ments leading to the Big Bang and what 
the universe may have looked like when it 
was a primordial soup of elementary par
ticles. Admission is free to the public. For 
more information, contact Teresa Thomas 
at x8-3580.
museums
Color Objects is a site-specific installa
tion by internationally-acclaimed German 
visiting artist Iso Wagner, which will be 
on display at the Hewlett Gallery until 
April 25. Wagner will transform the 
Hewletts space by an arrangement of very 
clearly shaped monochrome multi-part 
structures that will create dynamic ten
sions between the observer and the origiSafaraceheldStudents learn African dance
TSo it goes." Poo-teeweet? Vonnegut, baby, 
Vonnegut.
love, A 
Kevin: I like your haircut. 
Mike. Stop messing 
with my brain.
Juice is better than rum 
EG4 QE42 
Congrats Photo and 
Darkroom, you dont 
know how much of an 
awesome job youve 
done.
Tony 
Fetch this Kermit.
Martinez
Singin' oldies ai Hooters 
while finishing 50 threemile wings. Damn.
Look kids, BIG BEN!
Excuse me, Lori, but, has 
this ever been done before?"
That Hockey booth is 
ghetto
Yumi, Yumi, Yumi, 
what's in MY tummy?
pcobleR wucr ea UOG3/
VP Quayle 
passes safety.
see it, but 
you cant get 
to it!
NADS!!
CMU Womens Festival will be taking 
place on Saturday from noon until mid
night. The festival, being sponsored by the 
Womens Center, is a celebration of 
womens art, music, poetry, and history. 
Rebecca Walker will speak on the third 
wave of feminism at noon, workshops and 
lectures will take place during the after
noon, and a concert will finish off the 
evening. For more information, contact 
the Womens Center at X8-3595 or email 
women@andrew.cmu.edumusic______
Pitt Percussion Ensemble will give a 
concert tonight at 8:30 pm in Bellefield 
Hall Auditorium. The group will perform 
works by Harrison, Hovhanass, 
Duckworth, Beyer, and Wolman. Admis
sion is free. For more information, call 
Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
Music on the Edge will conclude with a 
concert by pianist Donald Berman on 
Wednesday at 8 pm in the Frick Fine Arts 
Auditorium. Tickets at the door are $8, $5 
for students and seniors. Berman will play 
works by Charles Ives, Scott Wheeler, as 
well as several others. For more informa
tion, contact Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
nal longitudinal gallery space. Admission 
to the gallery is free. For more informa
tion, call Petra Fallaux at x8-3877.
Silver Eye Center for Photography: The
deadline for the 11th Annual Photo-Oppor
tunity competition call for entries is Fri
day. The Center offers this opportunity for 
photographers to exhibit five to ten of thenmost recent photo-based works. The ex
hibit will run from June 27 through Au
gust 16. Entry is free for members at the. 
$60 level or higher. For more information, 
contact Jody Guy at 431-1810.
readingseries
Common Grounds Coffeehouse: Spring 
1997 poetry reading series will feature 
Toeknee Bailey and Jane McCreery on 
Tuesday, April 22. Open poetry readings 
will take place at 8 pm and scheduled read
ings at 8:30 pm. For more information, call 
Common Grounds at 362-1190.
Beehive Reading Series: A Graduate 
Reading will be featured on Thursday. All 
readings are held upstairs at the Beehive 
Coffeehouse, 3807 Forbes Avenue. It will 
be open mike at 8 pm, readers at 8:30 pm. 
For more information, call 441-2859.
The Pittsburgh Camerata will celebrate 
the 1997 anniversaries associated with 
Schubert, Brahms, Mendelssohn, and 
Okeghem with a choral concert 1997: 
Anniversary Acclaim on April 19 at St. 
Andrews Episcopal Church at Highland 
Park at 8 pm. Tickets range from $6 to $12. 
For more information, contact Sue Ruben 
at 687-9291.
Lisette Mlller-Dlxon/Tartan Photo 

---------------------------------------------------

SPRING
CARNIVAL
1997

---------------------------------------------------

.iR .ucCul F vuclRmeR wRssol glefRcaeCr F PI Eyces P--,
SWEEPSTAKES
an Contributing EditorAndrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor
pirit A claims victory, rolls over
By DAWN PAPUGA
'.Tartan Staffwriter
| Late nights, early mornings, and tons 
of hard work were the prelude to the 
Sweepstakes events. Unfortunately the 
rainy weather decided not to hold off for 
ithe finals on Saturday morning, leaving 
'many of the organizations wondering 
'who really was the best. This is not to 
Isay that the day of preliminary races 
was without excitement; there were drop.'outs and upsets across the board. In the 
! end, Spirit ended PiKAs three year reign 
as champions and returned to the top for 
their seventh championship in 11 years. 
! The first heat started the excitement 
when only one of the contenders actually 
showed up at the starting line. SDC D 
,and Sigma Nu C were to get the compe
tition underway, but at the sound of the 
gun only Sigma Nu C left the start line. 
They rolled unchallenged and crossed 
-the finish line at 2:36.10.
The second heat brought the first com
petitive race with Kappa Sig A, Fringe 
B, and Phi Kap B. The times recorded 
-were not the fastest, but they provided a
tight race for first and second place in 
the heat. Phi Kap B won with 2:25.09 
and Kappa Sig was close behind at 
2:28.88. Fringe B came in last with an 
almost 15-second difference from first 
place at 2:39.26.
The third heat featured only two bug
gies: PiKA B and SDC B. This race 
proved that rankings of the push teams 
can be deceiving. PiKA B finished with 
the fastest time at that point of the 
competition at 2:17.15. SDC B finished 
almost 15 seconds behind PiKAs C team 
at 2:30.80. Both teams had strong starts, 
but its the finish that makes the differ
ence.
The fourth heat featured KDRB, Spirit 
C, and Phi Kap C. This was an even race, 
with the buggies in line all the way 
through the race. Spirit C finished with 
2:24.09, enough to put them in second 
place for the time being. Phi Kap C came 
in at 2:29.19, about five seconds in front 
of KDR B, who finished with 2:34.34. 
Phi Kap C was disqualified, however, 
because of an interference issue. Awheel 
cover of their buggy fell off during the 
race and hit KDRs buggy windshield.
Andrew Mcuermott/ lartan uontnouting taitor 
; Racing up Hill 2 of the Sweepstakes course are (I to r): KDR B, Spirit C, and Phi Kap C.
The fact that the cover 
came off would not have 
disqualified them, but 
because it interfered with 
the race of another team, 
the Phi Kap team was dis
qualified.
Heat 5 was a close race 
for second and third 
place. Sig Tau A, Sigma 
Nu A, and Beta C had a 
great race. Sigma Nu A 
came in unchallenged 
with 2:17.16. The real 
race in this heat was for 
second place. Betas C 
team beat Sig Taus A 
team by less than a sec
ond. Beta C finished with 
2:32.50, and Sig Tau fin
ished at 2:33.00. Sigma 
Nu A moved into second
place one second behind ^ _vlhhr hd ex Tyrone Rouse,PiKA B. Tight races are 3 1
what make buggy competition so in
tense, and this one was exactly that.
Pioneers A, DTD A, and Kappa Sig B 
made up heat 6. Pioneers A won this race, 
coming in at 2:18.94. DTD A 
was second with 2:29.80, and 
Kap Sig B was last with 
2:41.80. This race was afairly 
predictable one once the gun 
went off. The buggies were 
evenly spaced through the 
whole race. Pioneers As time 
was fast enough to put them 
in the number three spottemporarily. DTDs A team was 
disqualified after the race for 
failing the brake test. All of 
the buggies were required to 
pass this brake test after the 
race for their times to count.
AEPi A, PiKA B, and SDC 
Akicked off the seventhheat. 
SDC A finished first with 
2:19.83 and made sure not to 
miss the pushbar at the finSam Greenfield/Special to The Tartan 
Spirit A pusher on Hill 2, gives Haraka a final push toward the finish line.
ish line again this year. This was enough 
to put them in the top four. PiKA B 
ended with.2:27.44, andAEPi was blown 
away when they crossed the finish line 
with the second slowest time of the morn
ing: 2:49.29.
The eighth heat consisted of Sig Tau 
B, Fringe A, and Spirit B. Not surpris
ingly, Spirits B team took an early lead 
and kept it throughout the race. They 
dominated the heat, and at that point, 
the contention, with 2:15.21. Fringe A 
followed in at 2:25.43, and Sig Tau B at 
2:34.06.
The last four heats held the teams 
that were picked to finish in the top 
spots, and most of the races proved to be 
tension builders for the organizations, 
as well as the fans. The first place win
ners crossed the finish line much earlier 
than the other competitors in their heat. 
The finishing times were extremely close, 
and the leading teams did everything 
but douse their rivals. The last four 
races were a battle for first place, and
provided the most excitement for the 
morning.
Heat 9 was anything but a close race 
between Phi Kap A, Pioneers B, and DU 
A. Phi Kap A took the heat easily cross
ing the finish line with a new leading 
time of 2:14.46, proving themselves wor
thy contenders. About 15 seconds later, 
Pioneers B crossed the line at 2:31.12. 
DU A followed with 2:44.38.
Sigma Nu B, Beta A, and SDC C raced 
in the 10th heat. After spinning last 
year, everyone was anxious to see just 
how fast Betas new buggy really was. 
Beta A dominated the heat with the 
fastest time up Hill 1, and the fastest 
time of the race day at the time, finish
ing at 2:14.12 and holding first place. 
Sigma Nu B followed with 2:24.82, and 
SDC C crawled in with the slowest time 
of the day 2:53.68.
Heat 11 proved to be just as exciting 
with the former champions racing to 
keep their title. Spirit D, PiKA A, and 
Please see SWEEPSTAKES, page L3
HyeceC E boARl 
CuDR ioAR Ccoyir
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Friday was a slow day as 
buggy races normally go. But 
free hot chocolate and the stillsmoldering remains of an ex
ploded course check car on the 
back of the track seemed to at
tract more crowds than usual to 
the start (and end) of womens 
Sweepstakes 97. The women, 
despite the freezing temps, had 
somethingto proveand Spirit 
A ended up being the team to do 
it, clinching their third straight 
Sweepstakes victory.
The cold affected everyone 
from the buggies to the pushers 
that were huddledin sweatpants 
and under blankets. The 
womens teams were off of the 
record mark set by Spirit in 1995 
of 2:33.03 by at least four sec
onds. The qualifying times for 
the potential next day of races 
hovered around 3 minutes. As 
everyones eyes turned skyward, 
they wondered if there would be 
another chance tomorrow. 
Would PiKA A be able to shave 
off the seven seconds it needed 
to catch the fleet-footed Spirit 
women? Would Beta women be 
able to make their best Sweep
stakes showing in history?
The forecast was not good: 100 
percent chance of precipitation. 
Sure enough, Saturday at 7am,
30 minutes before the scheduled 
start of races, the sky opened 
up. Horribly, second chances
started to wash away. For the 
top six teams that had advanced, 
the emotional hunt for hard
ware mixed rain with tears of 
frustration.
It was too wet Saturday morn
ing for a mechanic to light a 
cigarette. In the rule book, 
Sweepstakes prepares for a pos
sible rainout of races. Their rule: 
if races are canceled the second 
day, prelims count.
In the downpour, buggies and 
drivers stayed under wraps in 
the trucks to stay warm and 
dry. Pushers from all organiza
tions stuffed themselves into 
Margaret Morrison, laying 
along the walls and waiting. 
When the Sweepstakes commit
tee finally called off the races at
9 am, the womens top three 
standings were as they had been 
coming into final day: Spirit A 
2:37, PiKA A 2:44.73, Sig Nu A 
2:47.42. Beta A, SDC A, and 
Pioneers A also made the finals 
races. They were joined by 
PhiKap A, Spirit B, and KDR A 
who were awarded rerolls. 
Spirit B had the fourth fastest 
time on prelim day.
The six heats of 17 womens 
teams rolled without major ac
cidents occurring. In spite of 
some close races, all ofthe teams 
made it through the chute with
out spinning.
But neither rain nor lost 
chances could deter the positive 
nature of the pushers from all 
Please see WOMEN, page L3
Ceremony showcases champions
By CARRIE JONES-McGUIRE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
So the weather didnt hold. A 
number of booths sustained 
enough water damage to shut 
down many of the games on Sat
urday. But spirits and tensions 
ran high in the SDC tent on Sat
urday evening as the winners of 
buggy and booth awards were 
announced.
Buggy design awards were an
nounced first. The Peoples Choice 
went to Sigma Nu, as did the 
third place award. SDCs Rage 
was awarded second place. Spirit 
began their evenings sweep with 
first place for Demani.
In womens buggy, Spirit A took 
first place and also received a 
plaque in honor of their victory 
last year. They were followed by 
Pi Kappa Alpha (PiKA) A in sec
ond, and Sigma Nu A in third. 
The Beta crowd shouted Fuck 
you, PiKA during the announce
ment of these awards, and Beta, 
youre full of class, was PiKAs 
buggy chairs response while ac
cepting their award.
In mens buggy, only first place 
through sixth place were awarded 
prizes because of the rain. PiKA 
B took sixth place. Spirit contin
ued their winning streak with 
their B team placing fifth. Phi 
Kap A placed fourth. PiKA A 
placed third. Boos greeted Beta 
As second place finish. Spirit took 
home its fourth trophy for their A 
teams first place finish.
Spirit members were proud and 
happy. Its exciting because we 
worked hard all last year, and it 
didnt come through, said Wole
Oyenuga, a sophomore in me
chanical engineering and indus
trial management. We worked 
really hard this year. We pushed 
ourselves. Were going to try to 
make this a habit.
nior industrial management ma
jor. Next year, its ours.
Booth awards mixed the usual 
suspects with a few surprises. 
Delta Gamma won the award for 
best t-shirt. The Asian Students
In the sorority category, Zeta 
Psi Sigma took third with their 
booth depicting the trolley from 
Mr. Rogers Neighborhood. 
Kappa Alpha Theta placed second 
with their Love Boat booth. In
Beta buggy chair Jared Simpson and Beta buggy driver Ellen Lalumere
Im happy we won [womens 
buggy], said Laura Seejattan, a 
senior in industrial management 
and member of Spirit. All I have to 
say is, watch out for us next year. 
Beta brothers were also pleased 
with their achievement. Betas 
back. Were a force to be reckoned 
with, said Jared Simpson, a se
Associations (ASA) Sesame 
Street booth took first in the 
independent category, followed 
by Pioneers Fraggle Rock booth 
in second, and Student Dormi
tory Councils (SDC) Home Im
provement booth in third . ASA 
also received a plaque for their 
first-place finish last year.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff 
rejoice at the Awards Ceremony.
first place was Delta Delta Deltas 
bottle from I Dream of Jeannie. 
Were very excited, said 
Michelle Brown, a policy and man
agement sophomore and Tridelt 
sister. Everyone worked really 
hard, and it really paid off.
The Chairmans Choice award 
Please see CEREMONY, page L3

---------------------------------------------------

Mgnfi
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  14 April 1997
SWEEPSTAKES
Sam Greenfield/Special to The Tartan
Spirit pushes past competitionSpirit women claim 
third sweepstakes
SWEEPSTAKES, from page L2
KDR A were to go head-to-head. PiKAA, 
the champs from last year, came in at an 
impressive time of 2:14.18, but it was 
not fast enough to take first place. KDR 
Acrossedthe line at 2:22.59, and Spirits 
D team came in last at 2:32.59. PiKAs 
undefeated streak had come to an end.
The final heat of the day had DTD B, 
Beta B, and Spirit A. The overall favorite 
of the morning, Spirit A flew through the 
Chute and ripped through the finish line 
at 2:11.90, producing the fastest time of 
the day and enough to secure an overall 
win. Beta B crossed the line at 2:24.70, 
and DTD B finally crossed at 2:37.27.
Without a doubt, the top ten teams 
were looking forward to the finals races 
Saturday morning, but unfortunately 
the rain forced a cancelation of the sec
ond day. This meant that the times for 
prelims counted as the finals. The times 
for the top contenders were very close 
and the finals would have been an inter
esting race, but the winners were deter
mined from the times that the teams 
rolled on Friday morning. The top ten 
places were:
WOMEN, from page L2 Saturday night, Spirit was pumped
organizations. Freshman Ashley by their dual wins, as well as the 
Kinsey, pusher for PiKA A said about strong showing by both mens and 
Fridays races, It was cool and excit- womens B teams. Amidst chants of 5 
ing. PiKA takes us as serious as their out of 7  referring to their monumensteam. mental performance in buggy since
Freshman and PiKA A pusher the mid 90s, they showed a different 
Missy Brodine said They (PiKA) are spirit, the spirit of champions, 
really concerned about how WZ Tpff ^ p J]
we are feeling and how we 
are running. Brodine, who ^ -   -
spent all of Friday after races ^ r
in bed with food poisoning, nE
was ready to race again on 
Saturday if things had gone p$i
off. At least being sick helps j
keep me from being nervous.
I was not not nervous at all
yesterday, just the entire f  '3l
week before.
ior Kerry Riley, pusherfor Beta 
A team, who was named Queen 
of Hill 1 after Fridays races.
Her Hill 1 time of 21.36 sec
onds was the fastest of the day.
It was the first time that she 
had run the hill full-out and
she knew that she could go ..... -
even faster. Thats why today 
I wanted to go so badly, she
lamented about the cancella- Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor
tion of the second day of races. Pioneers A Hill 2 pusher takes off over the top 
At the awards ceremony on of the hill in preparation for her shove.
Sam Greenfield/Special to The Tartan 
Sig Tau prepares to launch their buggy down the freeroll portion of the course.
The day wasnt without controversy finish time and place was restored, 
though; there were protests after the There were also claims that Beta 
races. Sigma Nu was, at one point, As Hill 4 pusher was outside of the 
actually disqualified because certain exchange zone when he released 
push team members from their A and B the buggy and had that been the 
teams were not on the list of fraternity case they would have been disqualimembers. This implied that they were fied. But the judges reviewed the 
not actually members of the fraternitiy tapes from the lead truck and the
 a penalty of immediate disqualifica- follow truck and decided that there 
tion. Because of this, Sigma Nu lost was no fault.
their one place in the top ten. But after Fortunately, there were no major accideliberations and investigation, the dents and the races proved to be a show 
teams were readmitted because the of what the push teams, drivers, and 
fraternitys list had not been updated, mechanicscouldreally do. Itwasntaday 
The members in question were in fact of chances, and unfortunately the win: 
registered members and Sigma Nus ners were determined by only one race.
1) Spirit A
2) Beta A
3) PiKAA
4) Phi Kap A
5) Spirit B
6) PiKAB
7) Sigma Nu A
8) Pioneers A
9) SDC A
10) KDR A
VellRca CuDR ioAR CcoyieRa
CEREMONY, from page L2
went to Kappa Delta Rho for their ver
sion of The Twilight Zone. It was a 
great booth, they were good to work with, 
and they showed great spirit, said Jenna 
.Yerger, Midway chair.
Fraternity booth awards came last. 
Delta Tau Delta (DTD) took third for 
Pee Wees Playhouse.
Im so used to sharing trophies with 
other places, its nice to have one of our 
own, said DTDs booth chair.
Delta Upsilon received second place for 
their elaborate Indiana Jones booth, and 
also received a plaque for their victory 
last year. Phi Kap reclaimed the top spot 
this year with their rendition of Sherlock 
Holmes Baker Street residence.
Way to go, Tri-Delt, for a big improve
ment over last year, said Neeraj Bansar, 
a senior in electrical and computer engi
neering. Way to go, everybody, for work
ing so hard. Its a bummer it rained. 
Its great that Pioneers won [second 
place], said James Grobe, who gradu
ated from CMU in 89. Its great to 
come back and see that everythings 
still going on.
ujs.
, .si-sssas\ a*"1\ NC-*- ^
Brian Smlth/Tartan Photo Staff 
Tri-Delt sisters accept their award forfirst place in Sorority booth.an*1,1
PHOTO CAPTIONS 
FROM PAGE L1
1. Tri-Delts I Dream of Jeannie" booth used 
an innovative design that won them first place 
in the Sorority category.
SPRING
CARNIVAL
1997
81011
121314
2. Students let loose at Letters to Cleo, this 
year's headlining band.
3. Bagpipers heralded the opening of Spring 
Carnival 1997.
4. DTD recreated Pee Wees Playhouse for 
their third place finish in the Fraternities 
booth category.
5. Letters to Cleo mesmerized CMU fans.
6. Midway lights burned bright at Carnival.
7. Spirit B Team pushed their way to the finish 
and a fifth place position on the score card.
8. Women's Sweepstakes racers pushed their way up Hill 1 during Fridays preliminaries.
9. Safarace members gave African dance lessons to the Carnival crowd on Midway.
10. Brownie Marys lead singer mugged for the camera.
11. ASA's Sesame Street booth wowed little kids and won them first place In the Independent category.
12. The Kiltie Band kicked off Carnival with a first-rate concert.
13. Fraternity brothers and the campus community took part in the traditional post-Sweepstakes 
mudslide.
14. Carnival goers enjoyed the rocking adventure of the Sea-Ray pirate ship ride.
F
. or Inst relief from the nagging ache of taxes, we 
recommend T1AA-CRI-I* SRAs. SRAs are taxdeferred annuities designed to help bllild additional assets 
 monev that can help make the dllVercni-e between 
living and living ir.7/ al ter your working years ire over.
Instant tax savings.
Contributions to your SRAs are deducted from your 
salary on a pretax basis, so you pay less in taxes now. And 
since earnings on vour SRAs are also tax deferred until 
you receive them as retirement income, the money you 
dont send to Washington can work even harder for you.
Loans and more.
Whttt else do SRAs offer? A valuable loan 
option, plus a full range of investment choices and 
the financial expertise of T!AA-CRICF- America's 
largest retirement organization.0
The sooner you act, 
the sooner relief begins.
To lincl out more, stop by your benefits ollice or 
give us a rail al 1 800 8-J2-2888. We'll show you how 
SRAs can lower.your taxes.
Do it today. Ii couldn't hurt.
Visit us on the Internet at www.liaa-crel.org
Iff
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it."
* Based on uuii unilcr management.
CRBF certificale are distributed by TIAA-CRKF Individual and lnsiitiinon.il Service. Inc. l or inurr complete information, including charge, and expentr 
call I 800 8-12-2733. ext. fi5(W. l'or a currenr CRKF prospecto. Hr.itI the prospectus carefully More you iiml monrv I >atr of lirst u*e: 2/97.

---------------------------------------------------

R8vtE c8(K-etE 
68-t9E )ieetrrE
ASK ASTROLOGERS
? Personal ? Private ? One-On-One ?I -900-476-3100E,,t7
$2.99/min. Avg. call 12min. Avg. cost per call $36 
Must be over 18  Touch Tone phone required 
Cust. Serv., Strauss Comm., Carmel, CA (408J-625-1910
9I .iR .ucCul F vuclRmeR wRssol glefRcaeCr F PI Eyces P--,
Junior Staff
Booth builders hammer out television shows
BOOTH
By REENA SINGHAL
Tartan Staffwriter
Pee-Wees Playhouse, Dukes of Hazzard, and Speed Racer. 
CMU students and the Pittsburgh community got to reminisce about 
these favorite shows of the past, as they walked through the booths on 
Midway at this years Carnival. This years creative and intricate 
booths pertaining to the theme Television Shows represented the 
dedication and hardwork that CMU students possess.
This booth ranks up with the great Phi Kap booths of the past, 
said alumnus Omar Sharief, a chemical engineering major from the 
Class of 1996. The judges must have agreed with Sharief, as Phi 
Kappa Theta took first place in the fraternity category for their 
Sherlock Holmes booth replicating the detectives Baker Street 
home. The two-story booth was fully furnished with wallpapering, 
carpeting, and hardwood floors. A fireplace was made using real 
bricks, and stained glass windows were all made by students to 
decorate the exterior of the house.
It took about 7 1/2 tons of wood. [The booth is] built by hand, 
except for the chandeliers, [and] all the wiring was done by people 
in the house, said Ali Ardalan, a freshman electrical engineering 
and industrial management major.
The Asian Student Associations (ASA) Sesame Street booth won 
first place in the Independent category. Kids entered with their 
mouths opened wide as they were greeted by an eight-foot Big Bird, 
which was handmade by members of the organization, using yellow 
felt and chicken wire around a wooden frame. The organization also 
handmade Elmo, Cookie Monster, Ernie, Bert, and other well-known 
Sesame Street characters.
[The kids] are generally pretty excited because they can recognize 
everything, said Patrick Conlin, a junior creative writing major and 
co-booth chair for the organization. Inside the Sesame Street booth, 
kids won Sesame Street magnets and balloons as they played 
Ouch the Grouch by throwing foil balls into Oscar the Grouchs 
famous trashcan while the lid moved up and down.
Most booth builders agreed that building booths unites their 
organizations. The whole six hours we were raising the roof to
gether really brought the house together. It was a common goal and 
we all achieved it, said Pamela Brann, a sophomore electrical and 
computer engineering major and sister in Delta Delta Delta. Their 
I Dream of Jeannie booth, which was shaped like the inside of 
Jeannies bottle, won first place in the sorority category, as visitors 
were greeted by a fully-costumed Jeannie.
Booth builders also agreed almost unanimously that the satisfac
tion of building the booths comes from the reactions of children who
Brian Smlth/Tartan Photo Staff 
The CMU Hockey Team delighted Its fans with their interactive hockey booth.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
Members of Phi Kappa Theta raise their trophy in triumph. Their Sherlock Holmes booth won first place in the Fraternities category.
enter and play the games. Delta Upsilon (DU) recre
ated a lost cave that Young Indiana Jones stumbled 
upon in their booth, The Young Indiana Jones 
Chronicles, which won second place in the fraternity 
category. The booth was completely made by hand 
using sanded and painted Styrofoam on a wooden 
frame. We didnt want to just go out and buy a lot of 
pre-made stuff, so we put our minds together and tried 
to come up with the most creative booth we could, 
said Doug Dandridge, a sophomore psychology major.
Inside the cave is a statue that Young 
Indiana Jones sees, and players used 
a slingshot to try and hit the statues 
idol. The fun of it is when you see the 
kids take their three shots with the 
slingshot, said Dandridge. The 
statues moving hand lowered a candy 
prize when the idol was hit.
Delta Tau Deltas (DTD) creative 
Pee-Wees Playhouse booth was fullyequipped with familiar objects of the 
playhouse, such as Chairy, Conky, the 
Genie, and the Puppet Band, which 
were all handmade. Dancing flowers 
in the window sill and Mr. Window 
could be seen on the outside of this 
booth. It really reflects us because we 
like to do a booth thats like this, not 
straightforward  crazy and off-the.wall, said Bret Ioli, a senior creative
writing major, as the theme song of the show played Fraggles cave. Student Dormitory Council (SDC) won second 
in the background. According to Ioli and Jason Ermer, place in the independent category with their Home Improvea senior computer science major, the fraternity ment booth. The booth was modeled after the Taylors house on 
watched several Pee-Wee videos to get ideas, but the show, and it included a game where players used a joystick 
they also pointed out that they had a lot of difficulty to control a mechanical arm to push as many toy tools over a 
finding Pee-Wee items now, such as a Pee-Wee doll, specified line as possible. Booth chair Matt Henson, a junior 
Yet, DTD overcame these obstacles as they won third electrical and computer engineering major, said, At CMU, we 
place in the fraternity category. learn a lot of theory and how things work, but we never really get
Kappa Alpha Theta won second place in the sorority to work on practical application of that theory; booth helps us do 
category, for their Love Boat booth. Players of their that, and plus it is fun.
game got to toss rings from the boat onto fish targets These thoughts were also expressed by Brian Boulston, a freshto win sunglasses and Swedish fish candy. Zeta Psi man computer science major, and Hitesh Soneji, a senior electriSigma recreated Mr. Rogers Neighborhood inside cal and computer engineering major, who worked on the intricate 
their booth shaped like the Trolley, which won third game for Kappa Delta Rhos The Twilight Zone booth. According 
place in the sorority category. Inside the Trolley, the to Boulston and Soneji, creating the game took at least 150 man 
Neighborhood of Make-Belief was recreated, includ- hours. The idea for their game came from the Monsters are Due 
ingThe Castle and Lady Elaines Museum, and play- on Maple Street episode of the show where aliens took over the 
ers threw quarters at various targets to win Mr. electricity in the town. In their game, players tried to catch these 
Rogers postcards, cups, posters, and t-shirts. aliens, by pressing a button to hit the target house while lights
The third place award in the independent category went to are flashing throughout the houses. The Chairmans Choice 
Pioneers for their Fraggle Rock booth, which recreated the Award went to this booth which also included sound effects and
strobe lighting.
Even though this was their first year competing in the booth 
competition, the Taiwanese Student Association attracted several 
kids to their Cat in the Hat booth, which was shaped like the Cats 
famous red and white striped hat. This is our first year. We have 
limited funding and limited experience. It will hopefully get bet
ter, said Greg Wang, a senior biology major. Thus, as this years 
Carnival comes to an end, booth builders are ready for next year. 
CMUs hockey team will most likely bring back their popular 
shootout booth where kids can win candy and hockey t-shirts, and 
ASAs booth co-chair Steven Yu, a junior architecture major, is 
clearly ready for winning first place three years in a row, as he said, 
Look for us again next year.
-
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
Delta Delta Delta's I Dream of Jeannie booth attracted many curious Carnival goers.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  14 April 1997L5
By JONATHAN FANTAZIER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Have you ever wanted to gripe 
and swear a lot? Sure.
But have you ever expected to 
get applause for griping and 
swearing? If youve stretched your 
imagination that far, how about 
getting $100 for griping and 
swearing? Well, it is possible, but 
unless you were in Fridays Po
etry Slam, you may have missed 
your shot.
The Poetry Slam was held at 
1:30 pm on Friday at the Midway 
side tent in the Morewood park
ing lot. Both CMU and Pitt stu
dents participated by reading 
pieces of their work on stage.
Third place went to Jessica 
Prusakowski, an H&SS fresh
man, Second place went to a Pitt 
student who entered the contest 
as Secret Agent X-9 and would 
not give his real name. First place 
and $100 was awarded to Hillary 
Bergman, a Pitt student.
A panel of five judges gave 
scores for each reader in a diving 
competition style where each 
judge writes a number from one
to ten on a sheet of paper and 
displays it. According to co-coor
dinators Brandy Humphrey of the 
Oakland Review and a junior En
glish major at CMU, and Pitt 
student Sam Williamson of the 
Three Rivers Review, the judges 
were selected from Pitt and CMU 
faculty and from the local artistic 
community.
The judges panel consisted of 
CMU English professor Gerald 
Costanzo, Karl Mullen of the 
musical group Plowmans Lunch, 
poet Jan Beatty, Micki Myers of 
the Beehive Reading Series, and 
Arthur Erbe of Pitts English de
partment. The- Oakland Review 
and the Three Rivers Review 
sponsored the Slam, which was 
promoted by the Beehive.
The event had a fun, relaxed 
atmosphere. Sign up now or 
forever hold your peace. You 
can hold your piece while 
reading, too. We wont object, 
said Myers.
A Poetry Slam features poetry 
that is delivered in an emotional 
manner, similar to performance 
poetry. The audience encouraged 
the artists by reacting positively
to the vivid readers. This guys 
got it! said Humphrey of contes
tant Donovan Chases poetry. A 
good deal of the performers criti
cized pretentiousness in the art 
world and in American culture.
Contestants entered by paying
a $1 entry fee and coming on 
stage. About 20 students tookpart 
in the three-part competition. Ten 
advanced to the second stage and 
five of those ten to the third stage. 
Some of the participants did not 
expect this elimination style and
nearly ran out of things to read.
The Master of Ceremonies for 
the event was Terrance Hayes. 
Hayes is a Master of Fine Arts 
student at Pitt and takes part in 
several reading series including 
the Beehive Reading Series. Dur
ing an intermission, Hayes read 
a work of his own entitled I Wish 
I Was Fat.
Around 100 people gathered for 
the Poetry Slam. The audience,- 
participants, and judges all 
seemed to enjoy the event.
ElCiolr viuo*.ucCul hioCo 3jeCoc 
Secret Agent X-9 delivers his original work at Fridays Poetry Slam.
Stay cool!
Be a UCLA Bruin this summer!
UCLA Summer Sessions offers:
Q Easy registration. No need to send any records or transcripts. 
Just complete a one-page form that can be mailed or faxed.
O More than 500 courses, including lower division, 
upper division and graduate level study.
O Three convenient 6-week sessions and special 8-and 10-week 
sessions, designed to give you plenty of time for vacation fun 
before or after your summer classes.
O Smaller class sizes.
O Classes that are not canceled because of low enrollment.
0 Full laboratory courses in Physics, Biology and Chemistry.
O Compressed study time. Complete 4 or 8 quarter units in 
just six weeks.
O On-campus parking, housing and the use of all campus 
recreation facilities.
Call or stop by for a free catalog,
UCLA Summer Sessions
Monday-Friday, 9 am-5 pm
1147 Murphy Hall
Phone: (310) 794-8333
Fax: (310) 794-8160
E-mail: summer@uch.edu
WWW http://www.saonet.ucla.edu/summer
Session A: June 23-August 1 
Session B: July 14-August 22 
Session C: August 4-September 12
O Language intensives allowing completion of a full years study
in a compressed period of time.
Registration fee (covers all three sessions): $260.
Course fee: S90 per unit for most courses. Some are higher.
EVENTS
Rain doesnt dampen Carnival Within A Carnival
By ANNE RAY
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Two contenders balance on padded 
pedestals on a red and yellow inflatable 
mat. Adorned with protective helmets 
and clutching weapons that resemble 
oars with pillows on each end, they 
swing and poke to try and knock each 
other off the pedestal. One participant 
delivers a well-timed jab, and the other 
loses his own balance and takes his 
opponent with him in his fall onto the 
springy air bag.
This entertaining, if not somewhat 
comic, pastime, is called the joust, and 
was just one of the unusual activities at 
this years Carnival Within A Carnival.
Because of the rainy Saturday weather, 
the afternoons activities had to be moved 
into the University Center gym. There 
were several other audience-participa
tion-oriented games, including the 
bungee run, human bowling, and sumo 
wrestling. CMU Catering provided a 100- 
foot submarine sandwich for the event.
Despite the rainy weather outside, the 
music, food, and games transformed the 
UC gym into another carnival to compli
ment the full-scale Midway.
One participant in the joust, junior 
computer science major John 
Crisostomo, had a string of wins early in 
the afternoon. You cant get them [the 
other contestant] off by swinging the 
[jousting stick]its not heavy eno ugh, 
said Crisostomo.  You have to poke at 
the right time. [The Carnival Within A 
Carnival] is great because you dont have 
to pay, and itslots of fun. [The rides] are 
fun, but being on a ride is so passive. Im 
going to try everything today.
Another activity that Crisostomo tried 
was sumo wrestling. For this game, par
ticipants wear sumo suits, which are meant 
to simulate the weight and built of a real 
sumo wrestler. The competitors then try 
to push each other out of a ring drawn on 
a padded mat.
Senior Brian Long, a German and 
chemistry double major, tried the sumo 
wrestling against senior computer sci
9saRCCR weeeRctQeYol*s ucCul MioCo HCucC 
Inflatable alleys allowed friends to test their bungee cord skills in a race.
Competitors donned masks and pretended to be American Gladiators for the joust.
ence major Tony Rippy.
You have to stay low and try to knock 
him off-balance, said Long. Ive never 
tried [sumo wrestling] before. Were just 
keeping our shoes off and going from 
game to game.
Senior material science engineering 
major Tom Gilbert, the Saturday Event 
chair for Carnival, said that the weather 
was a problem at first, but the use of the 
UC gym still made the event possible.
We were initially going to try to split 
the activities between [the UC gym] and 
the SDC tent, said Gilbert. We knew 
that the weather was going to be a factor. 
We tried to be as flexible as we could this 
morning. The gym is very accessible to 
the outside, and it allows us to have 
Carnival indoors.... The idea behind this 
event was that we wanted something to 
bridge the gap between the [buggy] races 
and the Midway.
Halfway into the afternoon, the set-up 
crew began to assemble a new attraction 
for Carnival Within A Carnival. A large 
sheet of plastic was brought in from the
outside with the help of several 
bystanders, unrolled, and spread 
out in the empty space in the 
center of the gym. The plastic 
was hooked up to an air blower, 
and an indoor laser tag arena 
rose out of the black plastic on 
the floor. The Lazer Arena was 
by far the most popular activity 
of the afternoon. As soon as the Human 
game was set up inside, a line 
stretching out the gym doors had formed.
For this game of laser tag, teams of four 
were sent into the arena, an open space lit 
only by black light. The team with the 
most cumulative hits within the fiveminute period was declared the winner.
Other activities included human bowl
ing, where a person is strapped into a 
chair in a round metal cage which serves 
as the ball, and then rolled by two people 
down an alley into padded pins.
The last game of Carnival Within A 
Carnival was the bungee run. In this 
game, an inflated mat has two alleys 
divided by a barrier with velcro on top.
9eaRCCR wessRctQeYol*.ucCul hioCo HCuddB 
bowling was a popular rainy day game.
Participants start at the back of the alley 
with bungee cords attached to harnesses 
on their backs, and then have to run to 
grab markers stuck to the velcro before 
the bungee cords send them bouncing 
back to the beginning.
With all of the interesting games to 
avert their attention from the disap
pointing rainy weather, Carnival Within 
A Carnival was a hit with students.
It doesnt matter whether its out
side, said Long. It would be fun either 
way. Its good to have this on a rainy day. 
It gives everyone something to do for 
Carnival while the Midway is all wet.Poetry Slam offers forum for artists to express themselves

---------------------------------------------------

Art: Gabrien Symons/Tartan Contributing Editor
Layout: 1-Ping Li/Tartan Managing Editor and 
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
1. THEAR Ncacdem guitarist gets down and funky.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
2. A crowd-surfer makes his wayto the stage duringthe 
Brownie Mary concert.
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
3. A stilt-walker towers over the crowd on carnival's 
midway.
Lisette Miiler-Dixon/Tartan Photo Staff
4. iCooCAm ou naCuem drummer goes nuts during their 
hour set in the old gymnasium.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
5. The pirate ship and the sky diver were two rides that 
thrilled Carnival goers.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
6. The hypnotist's Influence makes a student stick a straw 
up his nose.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
7. Spirit shows off their shiny new trophy for winning 
Sweepstakes in the men's division.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
8. Bagpipers led the way to Midway during the opening 
ceremonies of Carnival.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
9. A little Carnival participant checks out Midway. Anthony 
Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
10. Buggy Crash Zone: This sign was put up on 
race day in the Chute.
Sam Greenfield/Special to The Tartan
11. Buggy pushers hand off their buggies during 
the race at the top of Hill 1.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor
12. SDC's women's team pushes hard to the 
flnishllne.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor
13. Sig Nu's Womens A Team buggy and pusher 
reach the top of Hill 1.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor
14. Student Body President Bryon Krug cuts the 
ribbon to officially open Carnival.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff
:

---------------------------------------------------

jfMss/ss-sv

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  14 April 1997
MUSIC
pceul HAeCi*.ucCul hioCo HCudd
Letters to Cleo prove their worth as main band
By BRADLEY ZIMMERMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
So the rain didnt cause a total 
wash-out. Granted, it wasnt 
thrilling waiting in line in a semi
downpour for half an hour, but 
Letters to Cleo and Angry Salad 
surpassed all expectations on 
Carnival Saturday.
First of all, why the hell didnt 
the committee use a large tent for 
the show? Skibo Gymnasium, 
where the concert was resched
uled from the Cut, is a massive 
industrial structure of concrete 
and steel which creates an aural 
environment approximatly 
equivalent to sticking your head 
in a metal bucket and banging it 
with a lead pipe. Reverb and echo 
out the wazoo. Not to place us in 
better company, but this is the 
reason shows at hockey arenas 
are so unbearable.
Starting only about 25 minutes 
late (as opposed to last years 
ludicrous hour and 15 minute 
wait), Angry Salad took the stage. 
An amiable bunch of longhairs, 
the Boston four-piece got as warm 
a welcome as can be expected 
from CMUs notoriously apathetic 
population. I really dont get the 
comparisons between them and 
The Cure  Angry Salad hit me 
as more of a cross between a looser 
Blues Traveler and the Dave 
Matthews Band  real bluesy 
roots-rock with a bit of Grateful 
Dead noodling tossed in and a 
funky beat you can bug out to. As 
expected, their cover of 99 Red 
Balloons got everyone moving 
and set the rooms energy level 
high enough to carry them 
through the rest of their set.
Vocalist/guitarist Bob Whelan 
punctuated the between-song 
lulls with amusing stories of failed 
relationships in which girlfriends 
decided they were lesbians, e.g.
switching teams, leaving me to 
play shortstop (alluding to the 
set of songs they refer to as the 
lesbian trilogy) and an impres
sion of Grover having sex. Its a 
cool party trick to say the least.
After a liberal smattering of 
songs from their two CDs, The 
Guinea Pig EP and Bizarre Gar
dening Accident, they closed out 
their day being as funky as four 
goofy-looking white guys can be 
with their cover of the Jackson 
5s I Want You Back. Angry 
Salad gets mucho props for a fun 
show, and I hope to see them 
back soon  any band who can 
get CMXFs collective booty shak
ing without programmed drums 
is mondo kewlie-o.
According to the annual Ricci 
Report (I always hit up Sergeant 
William Ricci of CMU Police for 
the securitys view of the Carni
val bands), the attendance hit a 
high of 700 people by Letters to 
Cleos second song. Not bad at all 
really, considering the conditions.
Letters to Cleo? Well, shoe 
leather tastes horrible. This is 
the part where I make a public 
apology to the band  they 
rocked with attitude. Not alsorans in the least, Letters to Cleo 
are easily one of the better bands 
to appear at Carnival in recent 
memory. Opening with Demon 
Rock off their gritty Wh olesale 
Meats and Fish album, I was 
struck dumb with how powerful 
Kay Hanleys voice was. Were 
talking strong, full-bodied, and 
at times piercing kind of strong
 kinda like Murphys Irish 
Stout  and she swaggered 
across the stage with the kind of 
sex appeal that makes a worldclass lead vocalist. I began to 
understand Jan Endlichs line of 
thinking when he said he was 
going to jump on stage to kiss her. 
Probably a good thing he didnt,
since she probably 
wouldve clocked him 
with the water bottle 
she was taking lib
eral swigs from.
The entire band 
was rather ani
mated  a stark 
contrast to Angry 
Salads groovin-inplace presence  
from a hyper-active 
bouncing bassist, to 
indie-str angling 
guitarists, to the 
new drummer who 
kept a smile even 
though he didnt 
know the bands 
whole catalogue 
quite yet. Pulling 
through a set domi
nated by material 
from Wholesale...,
Letters to Cleo 
somehow kept the 
pop melodies shim
mering brightly over 
a grating, semi
punk instrumenta
tion worlds ahead of 
common radio fod
der, especially on 
the beefed-up Big 
Star and Fast 
Way. Yeah, I was 
bummed the faster 
Pizza Cutter and 
You Dirty Rat 
were absent, but the 
Pumpkins-esque 
downerLaudanum 
was a breakneck 
turn into mellow
ness which showed 
a diversity and conviction which 
many other bands lack.
Their infamous radio hit Here 
and Now, from Aurora Gory 
Alice, was greeted as if it were the 
greatest thing since falling RAM 
prices, or maybe its because its
pceul HAeCi*.ucCul hioCo HCudd
aw
ElCiolr viuo*.ucCul hioCo wulumRc 
Letters to Cleo (above and top right) played with Angry Salad (bottom 
right) in Skibo Gymnasium for over 700 enthusiastic fans.
also on the Melrose Place 
Soundtrack. I guess people at this 
school dont get out much, be
cause they started leaving after 
that even though the band played 
two more songs. Letters to Cleo 
put in a great performance and
people didnt even stick around 
for the end of it.
And so ends another year of 
speculation, backstabbing, and 
second-guessing in the Carnival 
entertainment department. Let
ters to Cleo came out on top even
ElCiolr viuo*.ucCul hioCo wulumRc
after a bit of adversity and a lacka
daisical crowd, and they get my 
respect. But hey, theres no time 
to waste  we have just under 
340 days until we get to sling 
some more mud! See ya on the 
front lines....
Brownie Mary gets crowd psychedThe Clarks draw
massive crowd
By SUSIE CRIBBS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Judging by the line extending 
from the SDC tent last Friday 
night, one would have thought 
that the Activities Board had 
brought in a world-famous rock 
group. Forty-five minutes before 
the show even started, security 
volunteers were blocking the en
trance to the tent to keep people 
out. What group could possibly 
be drawing such a crowd on the 
CMU campus? No Doubt? Bush? 
Jewel? No, in fact, it was a local 
Pittsburgh group that just re
cently received their first national 
record contract with MCA/Way 
Cool Records. The line in front of 
the SDC tent was because of The 
Clarks, a group of four down-toearth guys who have the ability 
to woo and charm audiences with 
their high-energy performances.
From the beginning strains of 
Rain until the final chords of 
Cigarette, The Clarks rocked 
the carnival crowd with their 
original blend of a classic, 70s 
rock sound with their own origi
nality in lyrics and a somewhat 
folksy guitar sound. The tal
ents of drummer Dave Minarik, 
guitarist and vocalist Robert 
James, bass guitarist Greg Jo
seph, and the clear, energetic 
lyrics pouring forth from the 
mouth of lead vocalist Scott 
Blasey all combined to produce
the success of the concert.
Veteran Clarks fans were de
lighted by live versions of favor
ites like Penny on the Floor, 
Courtney, Now and Then, and 
Stop! The group pulled a few 
surprises out of their musical bag, 
however, by performing new ad
ditions to the old Clarks favor
ites, like Help Me Out, God 
Save the Snowman, and 
Mothers Only Son. This combi
nation of old and new provided a 
sense of anticipation at the be
ginning of each song for both vet
eran and converted Clarkies.
The most amazing feature of 
the concert was the audience. As 
the band took the stage, everyone 
jumped out of their seats and 
flocked to the stage. There was 
excitement in the fans  some
thing missing in CMU students 
much of the time. On the more 
popular songs (Penny on the 
Floor and Cigarette), the audi
ence was audible over the band.
The Clarks show was the high
light of the entire Carnival week
end. The talent of the band, the 
lyrics, and the attitude of the 
crowd all contributed to a show 
that was unequaled, even by 
Brownie Mary. All the audience 
needed was Scott Blasey, Greg 
Joseph, Robert James,Dave 
Minarik, a few guitars, some 
drums and microphones, and a 
Cigarette or two to make the 
night a huge success.
By DAVE ELMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
It should come as no surprise 
that at a school as demanding as 
CMU, when the time comes to let 
it all loose, its done in the biggest 
way possible. Hell, we even in
vent new ways for people to have 
fun, like shooting them downhills 
in buggies inches from the ground. 
Perhaps nowhere was fun more 
evident than in the SDC tent Fri
day night, where Brownie Mary 
played to a sizable crowd. Stylis
tically, the band tried to keep 
things varied with changing vo
cal and musical styles, although 
the music stayed upbeat through
out.
Brownie Mary opened with 
Take Yer Time (Ill Be Around), 
bff of their Thats Me album, a 
nice happy number accentuated 
by a guitar solo in the middle and
Kelsey Barbers clear vocals. Af
ter this came a more mellow song 
followed by one that picked up 
the pace, setting the theme for 
the night. By now, the crowd was 
fully into the music and joined 
the band in jumping all around. 
People could be seen crowd surf
ing towards the front of the tent, 
obviously enjoying themselves.
The catchy Water ran into a 
song, Great, that the band 
stated would be on the next al
bum to be released this fall. It 
was somewhere around this point 
that Campus Police tried to get 
people to move away from the 
stage, but no one seemed to care
 they were having too much 
fun. The show continued onward 
with the wary police watching 
the stage, but not interrupting 
the vibe.
Toward the end when we 
thought we had seen all Brownie
Mary had to offer, it broke out the 
infectious Kool Kat which got 
everyone moving. Shortly after
wards, another new song, Blind 
Obsession, was debuted. A few 
tracks later, the band ended their 
set with the crowd still hungry 
for more.
Due to the positive reaction, as 
an added bonus, the band re
turned to perform a two-song 
encore. By this point we really 
had seen everything from the 
band, from purely pop alterna
tive to a slightly harder sound
with obligatory guitar solos. 
Wisely, most people sought 
shelter to prepare for the next 
day.
As evidenced in their hourlong set, Brownie Mary proved 
they were just what Carnival 
needed. The vibrant perfor
mance pleased old fans, gained 
them some new ones, and had 
everyone moving. All in all, the 
event proved to be a worthy 
preamble to Saturdays festivi
ties, and nothing could spoil 
the mood.
ElCiolr viuo*.ucCul hioCo 3jeCoc 
The crowd carries a fan toward the stage at the concert on Friday.
ElCiolr viuo*.ucCul hioCo wulumRc 
The lead singer of Brownie Mary reaches out to the crowd.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  14 April 1997
ElCiolr viuo*.ucCul hioCo HCudd
Kiltie Band opens Carnival
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Personnel Manager
Immediately after the opening ceremonies for Carnival, a crowd of people 
followed the sound of the Kiltie Bands march across campus to the SDC tent 
on Midway to listen to the bands season-ending Spring Carnival perfor
mance. After the entire band was set up and crammed onto the stage, they 
leaped into their opening number, a concert march entitled The Maestro, by 
Eric 0. Steling. This was followed by the overture from the French opera The 
Dragoons of Villars, composed by L. Aime Maillart. The Kilties then contin
ued in the cultural theme with a medley of pieces from the musical Camelot 
by Frederick Loewe. The.band then presented a challenging piece by William 
Francis McBeth called Masque.
At the halfway point of the program, the Kiltie Band played Symphonic 
Variations on Amazing Grace, arranged by Claude T. Smith. This piece took 
the traditional melody of Amazing Grace and presented it in as many 
musical styles as possible  throughout the variations, the tune was carried 
by every instrument from the flute to the tuba. The next selection was 
Florentiner March, a grand Italian march by Julius Fucik. The Kilties 
wound down the concert with a tribute to jazz legend Duke Ellington with An 
Ellington Portrait, a compilation of his great works, including It Dont Mean 
A Thing (If It Aint Got That Swing).
After having the departing seniors stand to be acknowledged, the band 
concluded the concert with Black Horse Troop by John Philip Sousa and a 
piece entitled Whip & Spur. Toward the end of the concert, the Kiltie Band 
found themselves competing with the sounds of power tools from booth 
construction and another concert on the Midway stage, but the Kilties proved 
once again that they have the power to drown out nearly anything. As is their 
tradition, the band closed their concert by singing Dear Old Tech and The 
Skibo Song.
9eaRCCR wsssRctQeYol*.ucCul hioCo HCudd 
The Kiltie Band helped open the Carnival festivities on Thursday afternoon.
Bands channel diverse sounds at Carnival
Marlows Steamboat features local youth
By AMY BERGER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The extremely low turnout for 
Marlows Steamboat in the SDC tent on 
Friday is yet another big hint about 
something we already know  CMU 
students are intelligent. Really intelli
gent  so smart that most of them knew 
to stay away from this performance.
At first, I felt bad for the band when 
there werent more than 25 people in the 
audience. But after a few songs, I had 
heard more than enough.
So did most others, who I 
saw leaving quickly and 
without guilt.
The band might as well 
not have done a sound 
check, unless they were 
aiming for that everybody 
screaming but no one can 
understand a single word 
were saying type of sound.
The only words I under
stood through the entire 
show were when the vocal
ist said, Hi, were 
Marlows Steamboat and 
were gonna play for about 
an hour. I dont know why 
the songs even had lyrics.
It wasnt like anyone could 
understand them or any
thing. Why write words 
when theyre not going to 
be heard? They really 
should have paid more at
tention to the volume of the guitars in 
relation to that of the singer. And were 
three mics just for the drums absolutely 
necessary?
If they had been an instrumental 
group, they would have been better. It 
was obvious they had musical talent. 
The drummer played some great fills, 
and the bassist had an impressive solo, 
but it seemed like they were more inter
ested in showing off their individual 
talent rather than paying attention to 
balance. Its not that the singer was bad
Paul woocR*.ucCul !nleoc HCudd 
Marlows Steamboat left concert goers reaching for Aspirin.
 he was actually pretty decent, but 
that really didnt mean a whole lot when 
I had no clue what he was singing about.
I found the performance very unprofes
sional. I heard the music described as alter
native jazz. This music was definitely an 
alternative, but had nothing to do with jazz. 
Maybe it was an alternative to music for the 
planet Earth. All I know is that it sounded 
like a bunch of kids fooling around with 
amps and yelling unintelligibly in their ga
rage or basement.
Marlows Steamboat should have bet
ter assessed the size of 
the tent. They were play
ing at a volume that 
wouldve been appropri
ate for a stadium, not a 
space of a few hundred 
yards. They were way 
too loud, and my head 
was pounding when I left 
the show. I find it hard 
to respect a band that 
doesnt respect its audi
ence. I didnt see them 
pushing any Marlows 
Steamboat merchan
dise, but I think they 
wouldve made a little 
money if they had a 
stand where I could 
have bought Advil or 
something to make me 
feel better. And I could 
have used the cotton 
from the pill bottle to 
stuff my ears.The Buffalo Boys play with folk influence
By TOM LIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Buffalo Boys, a band made up of 
CMU students, may be a familiar name 
to you if youve listened to their show on 
WRCT. The group played Friday as part 
of the festivities of Spring Carnival, 
bringing with them lots of guitars and 
lots of enthusiasm.
There are six members in The Buffalo 
Boys. Jordan Anderson, a senior indus
trial management major, plays the banjo; 
John Biggs, a senior information sys
tems major, handles the acoustic guitar
and is the bands lead singer; Josh Curtin, 
a senior industrial management major, 
plays electric guitar, as does Amit Kar, 
also a senior in industrial manage
ment; Jay Miolla, a junior design ma
jor, beats the drums; and Matt Solitro, 
a senior chemistry major, is the groups 
bass player.
The band played about 10 songs, and 
though their performance was adver
tised as country and folk covers, few of 
these songs were played. Instead, there 
seemed to be more of a focus on rock 
songs, and the Buffalo Boys played 
selections from Green Day, The Cure,
Van Morrison, and Tom Petty, though 
they played a bit of folk and country.
The vocals were okay considering 
the band was playing without moni
tors; the instrumentals were quite 
strong.
In particular, the sharp banjo-play
ing skills of Jordan Anderson gave the 
Buffalo Boys a quirky and muchneeded lift, since through much of the 
performance the volumes on the vari
ous instruments and microphones were 
set at conflicting levels. However, the 
Buffalo Boys put on an entertaining 
and enjoyable performance.
Orchestra Tropical plays with Latin influence
By JENNY GARCIADE OSUNA
Tartan Forum Co-Editor
On the first night of Carnival, 
the area around the Midway stage 
was empty. Then Orchestra 
Tropical, a local Latino band, be
gan to play their first song: a 
salsa jumping with rhythm and 
passion. By the time the song 
ended, the area around the stage 
had about 50 people gathered. By 
their second song, the place was
full of people dancing, tapping 
their feet to the beat, or simply 
enjoying the music.
I think having [Orchestra 
Tropical] is a great thing. Their 
beat is very, festive  a complex 
kind of music, said John Arroyo, 
junior electrical and computer 
engineering major. The other al
ternative bands [playing at Car
nival] are all right, but its all the 
same thing; its the same chords 
over and over again. This is a
9eaRCCR wessRctQeYol*.ucCul hioCo HCudd 
Orchestra Tropical kept the crowd dancing to their Latin beats.
great change.
The bands festive feel was a 
hit. The ten members of the band 
danced around to their music, 
which really fired up the crowd. 
Though it seemed a great mix of 
the CMU community attended, 
the crowd was largely made up of 
the members from the Ballroom 
Dance club.
Hands off, this is a Ballroom 
Dance thing, said John 
Crisostomo, sophomore CS ma
jor. Regardless, I do think the 
band is great. There are a lot of 
things going on [during Carni
val], and these are the activi
ties that really make it fun. 
Orchesta Tropical played for 
about an hour, with an ener
getic mix of salsa, merengue, 
mambo, and rumba music. The 
band plays regularly in clubs 
around Pittsburgh such as 
Cozumel and Metropol, and 
played on campus during this 
years International Festival.
Ive heard them quite of
ten; theyre really good, said 
Annie Garibaldi, sophomore 
modern languages major and 
member of the Ballroom 
Dance club. This music is 
great for the ballroom danc
ers and, of course, for the rest 
of the campus as well.
The Beelzebubs give a-capella performance
By MAX CHITTISTER
Tartan Staffwriter
They looked like 12 guys on 
their way to their high school 
graduation, wearing suits with 
funky ties and their hair 
messed up by the rain and 
wind. And then they gathered 
around the microphones, 
screwed their faces up into 
truly hideous-looking contor
tions, and from somewhere in 
that mass of funny-looking 
guys, music came out.
The Beelzebubs, an all-male 
a-cappella band from Tufts 
University, performed in the 
SDC Tent on Saturday after
noon as part of Carnival. De
spite the rain, a fairly large 
crowd was on hand, both sit
ting and standing.
Their playlist was extensive, 
including arrangements of clas
sic rock, ballads, and pop. The 
show also included a number of 
short comedy bits.
I cant stand Del Amitri, but 
when they sang Roll To Me, I 
almost enjoyed it  thats the 
highest compliment I can give. 
Keeping with their pattern of 
including Peter Gabriel in ev
erything, they performed 
Sledgehammer. They sang
some ballads that you might ex
pect would lend themselves to acappella. With or Without 
You? I could see that. Every
body Hurts? Sounds good.
But... Walk This Way? Wel
come to the Jungle? Bel Biv 
DeVoes Poison? These guys will 
never be accused of not taking a 
chance. For the most part, the 
chances paid off; the songs were 
very enjoyable. Maybe they 
werent note-perfect on these; 
maybe it was a little hard to hear 
the lead singer sometimes. But 
their enthusiasm more than made 
up for it. Ive never seen 12 guys 
have so much fun on stage before.
Theres no doubt in my mind 
that the highlights of the show 
were the Beatles covers: A Day 
in the Life and I Am The Wal
rus. I should have expected this 
from a band name Beelzebub, 
but they managed to find and 
bring out the devil in each of 
these songs. Literally. They 
chanted The devil the devil the 
devil, made scary faces, and 
danced around the stage in a gro
tesque show of Satan worship. Or 
something.
Their comedy, while not as good 
as the music, was pretty fair. A 
one-minute sketch called Crosby, 
Stills, Nash, and Chung made
no sense. A set of self-help in
structions taught us that all you 
have to do as a successful pick
pocket is say Hey, youre Jack 
Maynard, arent you? Youre a 
pretty good-looking guy. Can I 
have your wallet? They mocked 
Star Wars in a sketch about digi
tally remastering your life. This 
was aided by the unexpected-uninvited-but-entirely-appropriate 
horn from The Dukes ofHazzard-.
No doubt, the comedy high
light was Romeo and Mickey, 
the lost first draft of Romeo and 
Juliet. Who would have guessed 
that Romeos first line would be 
O Mickey, youre so fine, youre 
so fine you blow my mind, hey 
Mickey! The rest of the show 
was bad 80s lyrics, strung to-* 
gether to make a show eerily 
similar to Romeo and Juliet.
After the show, CDs were avail
able for sale. Gilding and House 
are both fantastic albums.
The Bubs sound great, both 
in person and on CD. But if you 
want the full effect, youve got 
to track them down live. If were 
lucky, we can con them into 
coming back. Ill just say Hey, 
Jack Maynard, youre a good 
looking guy. Come back to Car
nival again. And heres your 
wallet back.

---------------------------------------------------

L10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  14 April 1997
8i*.ucCul hioCo HCudd
Hypnotist mesmerizes 
Carnival participants
By SCOTT SHELL
Tartan Staffwriter
Thursday nights Carnival activi
ties were topped offby something quite 
mesmerizing. And that is no hyper
bole. Mark Pittman, performing hypactually made it into hypnosis. Those 
for whom it did not work returned to 
their seats, while a few unsuspecting 
audience members for whom it did work 
came on stage. Then the fun started.
Pittman set up a few scenarios for 
the group: a trip aboard the Intrepid
notist, gave a show that left the audi- space shuttle where the cabin heated
ence in both laughter and awe. But 
what marked his unique performance 
was that students did the entertain
ing, albeit unknowingly.
Before calling on volunteers, though, 
Pittman put to rest some myths about 
hypnosis. He explained that it is a 
natural state of focus and relaxation, 
and that it doesnt involve one persons 
will overpowering and controlling 
anothers. With that in mind, he asked 
for volunteers eager to be hypnotized, 
as it would not work with someone 
resistant to it.
Twenty-one Carnegie Mellon stu
dents were chosen, and about 16 or so
pceul HAsCi*.ucCul hioCo HCudd 
Students were under the spell of the hypnotist.
up to 105 degrees and then cooled to 25 
in the course of its orbit; experimenta
tion with plastic straws that yielded 
laughing gas from one end and tear 
gas from the other; and sudden floods 
of wonderful fragrances and horrible 
stenches. The groups reactions were a 
feast of humor for the audience.
There were also individual sugges
tions. One subject was told to forget 
the number four, and was dumb
founded when she counted out loud 
her 11 fingers. Another became the 
first male to experience pregnancy and 
childbirth. And at the end of the show, 
one student was distraught over her 
lost shirt which, at the 
command of Pittman, 
had become invisible to 
her.
So whats it like to be 
hypnotized? Two of the 
participants, Huan 
Chang and Marcin 
Krieger, both freshmen 
in computer science, 
seemed impressed. Its 
cool, said Chang. He 
really knows what hes 
doing. More taken by be
wilderment, Kriegers re
sponse reveals the shows 
wackiness. He said, I 
dont know what hap
pened. People are being 
nice to me and I have a 
straw. Looks like hes in 
for as much of a surprise 
as the audience was.
Comic keeps crowd laughing
By GREG MARCKS
Tartan Staffwriter
I admit I was skeptical. There are so 
many bad comics that the chances of 
getting a good one were slim. But AB 
Entertainment picked us a winner.
Marc Moran is not only an excellent 
comic, but he also seems like a really cool 
guy. His topics are the usual stand-up 
fare (the differences between men and 
women being the most obvious), but they 
are delivered with such an innocence 
that they seemed fresh. He adds new 
twists to old models, in which the stan
dard household cat and dog become an 
aardvark and a mongoose, and also is 
the first to admit that a few of his jokes, 
like the vacuum cleaner headlight rou
tine, have been done before.
I honestly felt Marc was having as 
much fun as the audience, and this put 
everyone at ease. While talking about
Walmart, Subway, and people in Ala
bama, he would continually stop and 
shake his head before continuing, but 
not disruptively like many comedians 
who laugh at their own jokes. Instead of 
ignoring camera flashes like most per
formers, he always pointed them out 
and incorporated them into his act.
Marc relayed several personal anec
dotes, the last of which had a genuine 
message: he hopes that everyone in the 
audience finds real love, because it is the 
most important thing in life, more im
portant than money or a career. After 
delivering this solemn monologue, he 
then went on to explain how his exgirlfriend (lets call her Michelle from 
New Jersey) messed up his life, inter
jecting that he has a really great job.
In addition to exposing human foibles, 
Marc also made funny noises and flailed 
his limbs. (At one point, he collapsed to 
the ground, injuring his hand in the
process. Now thats a team player!) One 
of the most impressive aspects of Marcs 
performance was his ability to use the 
only props at a comics disposal, a micro
phone, a mike stand, and a stool. Marc 
executed the standard move-the-stoolaround technique with expertise, but he 
also turned it into a toilet and a checkr 
out counter, climbing on top of it while 
grunting on both occasions. His micro: 
phone became a convincing tlphon 
and Snoopy fishing pole, and he achieved 
great sound effects by hitting the mike 
on both the stool and himself. The mike 
stand became not only the usual pointer 
stick but a pole on which to stick Michael 
Boltons severed head.
Marc Moran was recently voted Best 
Campus Comedian of 1997, and every: 
one in the tent on Saturday night now 
knows why. This was the second time he 
has performed here this year, so if you 
missed him, you missed out.
Ventriloquist sounds like a dummy
By RYAN SCHILLING
Tartan Assistant News Editor
I usually dont like ventriloquists. In 
fact, the only ventriloquist Ive ever seen 
that Ive enjoyed was this guy that I saw 
on TV with quite a few different puppets 
including a jalepeno on a steeeck. Con
sequently, I wasnt too excited about 
going to see Dan Horn in the tent on 
Saturday night.
Horn began with a Toy-Yoda (notice 
the play on words, one that I, for one, 
had always noticed during Toyota com
mercials back when I was a young lad). 
Yoda could do two things: nod and... uh, 
ask someone who was there. It was pretty 
funny. It destroyed all my childhood 
exaltations of Yoda forever. Ill never be 
able to look at the little green guy again.
Another puppet to come on stage was 
the old geezer, Orson. I didnt really like 
Orson except during his song when Horn
showed some of his more amazing tal
ents by changing loudness according to 
how close Orson was to the microphone.
Orson was really obnoxious through
out, though, mainly because of his pin
ing for a young woman named Jenny in 
the audience (who was later turned into 
a display of mockery when Horn trans
formed her into a puppet herself). I did 
like the old mans voice, though. It was 
similar to Homers dad on The Simpsons.
But it was the end of the show that put 
me over the edge. He brought out 
Cassandra who looked like the girl dolly 
on the Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer 
Claymation Christmas special. She, too, 
found an audience member to gawk at, 
and then began to sing a song.
When it got too graphic, Horn at
tempted to put her away, shaming her. 
She refused, and then came an Exorcist 
take-off where Cassandras voice changed 
(for the better if you ask me) and head
spun around. The only thing he missed 
was the pea soup.
But then after a little while longer, he 
was going to put her in her suitcase 
when her hair fell off. Horn started laugh
ing so hard that it had to have been an 
accident. It was great, and the audience 
was in hysterics.
Then came one of the best displays of 
impromptu Ive ever seen. He continued 
by removing her eyes and putting them 
in random places on her head.
When her head was blank, it looked 
somewhat like a phallus, and Horn duly 
noted this to the amusement of the audi
ence. But like I said, this was all improvisation on his part, and it made me 
laugh all the harder and respect Horn 
more.
It was a good show especially consid
ering my prejudice against ventriloquists, and hopefully Ill catch it again 
sometime in the future.
T hrss1m 2F imhh 
1&Tt T &1mi F3
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMG/Pitt/Hospitals.
VTsiAL ImmDiAL 3t1&iA FT1mh
5405 Fifth Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15232HEOKN EEOPEEEE
http://Pittsburgh.net/Shadysidelnn/
Comedian retells stock jokes
By BECCA FRIBUSH
Tartan Staffwriter
Jonathan Brandt, the standup comedian who performed on 
Thursday night, did not send 
anyone rolling in the aisles with 
great guffaws of laughter. In all 
likelihood, he didnt say anything 
anyone is going to remember a 
year, a month, or even a week 
from now. All he did was to tell a 
whole bunch of moderately funny 
jokes. He held our attention for 
an hour. We laughed. Then we 
walked off into Carnival and for
got all about his act.
Dont get me wrong  Brandt, 
a former writer for Comedy Cen
tral, was certainly entertaining. 
Listening to him was a decent 
way to kill an hour on Thursday 
evening. Hes just not going to 
win any points for originality. 
Just like any other comedian who 
wants to keep a tentful of college 
students amused, he mainly dealt 
out alcohol jokes, sex jokes, and 
summer job jokes, with a sprin
kling of toilet humor. Nothing 
any student hadnt heard mil
lions of times before. He did 
handle these subjects well, or as 
well as can be expected when 
your opening joke requires you to 
demonstrate the proper position 
for urinating on your front lawn 
in the middle of the night. While
Qeulu pucCosoCCu*.ucCul QucDcooA wulumRc 
Jonathan Brandt gave a forgettable appearance at Carnival.
drunk, no less.
Once we got past that appetiz;- 
ing little scene, Brandt served up 
moderately funny routines about 
revenge tactics for when your 
summer job just doesnt go well 
(fax your employer a roll of paper 
towels  itll keep the fax ma
chine occupied for hours) andNe: 
anderthal college roommates^ 
among other things. His long, 
elastic face and physical stage 
presence helped make the differ
ence between comedy that leaves 
the audience snoozing in their 
seats and comedy that at least 
guarantees that their eyes are 
open and theyre making some 
kind of response.
Brandt also has an extremely 
versatile voice. I mean, this guy 
can imitate two different types of 
ambulance sirens, grunt like the 
aforementioned Neanderthal 
roommate, and do a pretty re
spectable impersonation of Alvin 
the chipmunk. Alvin came into 
play during Brandts rendition of 
every comedians favorite staple, 
the painfully and endearingly shy 
with the opposite sex routine. Like 
most of his bits, this was a cliche, 
but an entertaining one.
I may not remember anything 
he said in a few days time, but I 
wasnt disappointed. No one ex
pects penetrating insights or 
heaping chunks of creativity from 
a comedian hired to play for col
lege students as they begin a 
three-day-long party. They ex
pect to be amused. They expect to 
have fun. I was amused. I had 
fun. So why ask for more?
COMEDY

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  14 April 1997
DANCE & DRAMA
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
pceul HAeCi*.ucCul hioCo HCudd
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SEMESTER ABROAD
 London
 Hong Kong
 Madrid
Field study, internships 
& study tours
Business & liberal arts courses 
taught in English
Language at all levels 
in Madrid and Hong Kong
Generous tuition grants 
and academic scholarships
Summer business programs 
in Asia and Europe
Play amuses audience
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
Ever wonder what the Bible 
would be like if the Kids in the 
Hall decided to do a reenactment? 
Well wonder no longer, Scotch N 
Sodas production of Godspell has 
the answer.
The play, based on the gospel 
according to Matthew and di
rected by Robyn Nace, revolves 
around a group of 13 strangers, 
one of whom represents Jesus. 
They learn about how to be a good 
person in the eyes of God, retell
ing a few familiar parables, and 
having some musical numbers 
along the way. Its broken into 
two acts, the first being mostly 
parables, the second being the 
last supper and the crucifixion.
The one word that describes 
this production best is wacky. 
The directors touch is highly ap
parent in this version of the play. 
It almost seems like a series of 
skits, instead of a traditionally 
styled play  the first act more 
so than the second. In these skits, 
the 13 people act out parables in 
very contemporary and funny 
ways. Its full of references to 
movies (like the tax collector who 
talks like Forrest Gump and says, 
Humble is as humble does) and 
contemporary culture (like the 
goat who calls a group of sheep a 
bunch of clones).
The humor definitely put a nicer
touch on the words of the gospel 
and made it easier to watch. The 
play was never preachy, as a pro
duction entirely based on the bible 
is prone to do. Granted, there 
wasnt much in the way of char
acter development, except 
maybe for Jesus (played by 
Dana Steer), but that wasnt 
the point in this production. It 
was more of having a good time 
and maybe even learning some
thing (or maybe not).
Occasionally, though, the 
wackiness of the whole produc
tion got in the way of the stories. 
At times, it was difficult to make 
out what the actors were saying 
because they were using some 
exceedingly wacky voices. Some 
of the additions were just plain 
goofy and not very funny.
The second act had far fewer 
goofy lines in it, as it was on a 
more serious subject. This part of 
the play was very well done, and 
was more in the vein of a traditionally-styled play. The actors 
pulled off a very emotional sec
ond half, with the director show
ing some well-placed restraint on 
the wacky moments of the act.
Another of the defining points 
of this play was the action. The 
actors were all over the place, 
running, diving, and falling. Ev
ery other minute someone would 
be dropped or pushed off a ledge 
or fall on their own. All this fall
ing down was done very humor
ously, kind of like a Three Stooges 
slapstick routine. Some of the 
actors went so far as to wear 
kneepads to protect themselves 
from crippling injuries.
The musical numbers were very 
tightly played; both the band and 
the actors worked in perfect har
mony. And the music itself was 
good. There was a huge range of 
music within the play. Numbers 
like Turn Back O Man sounded 
a little bluesy, like something one 
would see in a nightclub in New 
York. Other numbers, like Day 
by Day, were more subdued and 
passionate  slower but by no 
means lesser, songs. It was this 
combination of jumping show 
tunes and intimate melodies that 
made the music great.
There were a few parts that 
went a little long, adding to the 
plays running time of two-and-ahalf hours. Several times during 
the production, the actors began 
to play ball on the stage. At the 
end of intermission, they were 
engaged in a beach ball volleyball 
game, and it wasnt clear if this 
was part of the play or just the 
actors killing time before the sec
ond act. Also, a couple of the 
musical numbers dragged on, 
wallowing in a pit of redundancy.
The play was good. I laughed, I 
cried, it was better than Cats. 
Robyn Nace did a good job in 
giving old stories a modern and 
humorous slant.
Dance group shows soul
By NIA RODGERS Arms and hands waved though the air and pressed
Tartan Staffwriter away from brilliantly costumed chests. Their feet
stomped along with the rhythm of the drums and
Safarace: the Sounds of Africa Dance & The- then kicked out into the air while their bodies 
atre Company offered one of several ethnic turned and swayed. One by one, the dancers 
performances during Carnival. Blending West exited the stage, leaving the drummers to close 
African dancing techniques with enthusiastic the memorable performance with a zealous throbdrumming, Safarace not only entertained the bing rhythm, 
crowd but got them moving 
despite overcast skies and cool 
temperatures.
The performance began with 
an introduction by Nadiyah Lo, 
one of the companies instruc
tors, who described the groups 
mission to expose our audi
ence to the culture of Africa 
through music, dance, drum
ming, lectures and workshops.
As Lo spoke, the drummers, 
dressed in orange and black 
traditional African costumes, 
began to warm up, beginning 
the drum call. The drums rolled, 
and as the sound grew more 
intense, a stilt dancer appeared 
above the crowd. Dressed in 
bright pink, green, and white, 
his waist girded by long white
fringes, and wearing an ornate 9eaRCCR wsssRctQsYol*.ucCul hioCo HCudd
mask, the stilt dancer strode __ ,  , ,, ,, 
through the clearing in front of Members of the Company taught the audience African dances.
the stage and danced over the 
seated crowd.
He grooved through those 
standing, and with perfect bal
ance, danced on one leg. Pull
ing participants from the crowd, 
the other dancers in the com
pany formed a dance line that 
wove through the stilt dancers 
legs and around the clearing.
The crowd cheered- as the stilt 
dancer disappeared behind the 
booths and the next .part of the 
performance began.
Again Lo spoke to the crowd 
pulling more volunteers onto 
the stage. Once the 20 or so 
were assembled, Lo demon
strated dance movements and 
then led the volunteers in a 
rousing routine. The crowd, im
pressed by the sight of their 
peers, friends, and family mem
bers dancing on stage, clapped 
and shrieked in encourage
ment. Inhibitions swept aside, 
the dancers expressed the true 
spontaneity and fun of the mo
ment through their body lan
guage in their individual dances 
and their smiles and laughter.
The Company took the stage 
for the closing piece and wowed 
the audience with their ener
getic and graceful movements. The stilt dancer danced over and around audience members.
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY  119 Euclid Avenue  Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472  suabroad@syr.edu  http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipaQeulu pucCosoCCu*.ucCul QucDcooA wulumRc 
Cast members of Godspell reenact and sing parables with a touch of wackiness.

---------------------------------------------------

0osnAR -PB OaanR JJPI Eyces P--,
Md
EcC8 TuNceRl HrAola*.ucCul volCceNnCelm 3jeCoc 
9uronC8 WRfel puNNeCC*.ucCul hcojnSCeol wulumRc
P/ Qeulu pucCosoCCu*.ucCul QucDcooA wulumRc
J/ ElCiolr viuo*.ucCul hioCo 3jeCoc
L/ Qeulu pucCosoCCu*.ucCul QucDcooA wulumRc
I/ !uaol HeRmRljocd *.ucCul hioCo HCudd wulumRc
:/ ElCiolr viuo*.ucCul hioCo 3jeCoc
/ !uaol HeRmRljocd*.ucCul hioCo HCudd wulumRc
,/ EljcRb wSQRcAoCC*.ucCul volCceNnCelm 3jeCoc
[/ HuA TcRRldeRsj*HyRSeus Co .iR .ucCul
-/ wuceu TsARlR7*.ucCul hioCo HCudd
P/ ElCiolr viuo*.ucCul hioCo 3jeCoc
PP/ huns woocR*.ucCul !nleoc HCudd
PJ/ Qeulu pucCosoCCu*.ucCul QucDcooA wulumRc
PL/ wuceu TeARlR7*.ucCul hioCo HCudd
PI/ !uaol HeRmRljocd*.ucCul hioCo HCudd wulumRc
