Students react to offensive 
comments.
See pages 6 and 7.
The Tartan football team ends 
its season with its first loss.
See page 11.
UAA honors Mike Hession as 
Defensive Player of the Year.
See page LI.
...16 ,Predator 2 provides fun for the
k whole family.
Lll See page LI 1....LI
....6
...11 
.LI 6 
,L15
There will not be an issue of 
The Tartan next week because 
of the Thanksgiving holiday.
THE TARTN
Dean leaves Student Affairs
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan Assistant News Editor
As of last Monday, Assistant Dean 
of Student Affairs Ron Campana is 
out of the office and back to the 
courtroom.
I am an attorney, and over the 
past few years Ive dabbled, but only 
part time, said Campana. I felt 
that it was time to go back and con
tinue that. Its something that I en
joy doing.
In addition to his duties as assis
tant dean, Campana chaired meet
ings of the University Disciplinary 
Committee, set up to provide an in
ternal judicial system for the Uni
versity. He also served as advisogto 
the Greek community at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Personally, I really liked him'r.a 
lot, said Gary McMasters, presi
dent of Pi Lambda Phi. Im really 
sorry to see him go. The way he dealt 
with fraternities, hell be hard-to 
replace.
Alpha Epsilon Pi president Evan 
Indianer had similar comments. 
When people approached him, he 
was always willing to help. He ac
complished a lot of things while he 
was here. He was always willing to 
give direction and advice and always 
came through.
Its tough to make a decision that 
Please see CAMPANA, page 5Visiting committees review departments
}y MICHAEL J. EWEDOSH
Tartan Asst. Business Manager
Carnegie Mellons academic 
epartments will be hearing more 
rom members of the Board of 
Trustees in the near future. As 
?art of a program unveiled at last 
Mondays meeting of the Board of 
Trustees, visiting committees, 
jonsisting oftrustees, alumni, and 
utside experts, will be establshed for academic as well as 
ome non-academic departments.
"This is not an adversarial process. 
 John Fetkovich, 
special assistant to the president
As an arm of the Board of 
Trustees, the principle purpose of 
the committees is for members of 
the board to become more deeply 
knowledgeable about the univer
sity, said John Fetkovich, spe
cial assistant to the president for 
academic affairs. Another major 
function is to assist academic de
partments in evaluating their 
current status and direction, and 
to assist them in achieving goals
and attaining greater levels of 
excellence.
Under the plan, academic de
partments as well as some nonacademic departments, like the 
Carnegie Mellon Research Insti
tute and the Software Engineer
ing Institute, will be visited at 
least once every two years by a 
committee of 10 to 15 people. Ac
cording to Fetkovich, who is also 
a professor in the physics de
partment, the committees mem
bers will include one or two
trustees, alumni, and other ex
perts. Members of the Board of 
Trustees will chair or co-chair 
most committees.
According to Fetkovich, mem
bers of the visiting committee 
would receive a written descrip
tion of that departments opera
tion and procedures from the de
partment head about a month 
prior to their visit. The committee 
would spend one or two days on 
campus, talking with the depart
ment head and faculty members
of the department.
Before leaving campus, the 
committee would meet with the 
president and give a preliminary 
oral report on its findings. About 
a month after the visit, the com
mittee chair would send a written 
report to the president, who would 
distribute it to trustees, the collage 
dean, the department, and the 
provost.
The program is similar to qjfe 
which was created in 1961 by 
Please see COMMITTEES, page 4
The City of Pittsburgh heralded the official openingof the Christmas season Friday with its annual Light-Up Night. Even the cold, rairiy weather couldn't spoil the enjoyment 
of those who gathered to see the store windows decked with boughs of holly, as weil as to watch the magnificent fireworks display over Three Rivers Stadium.
2MU study abroad program takes off for Tours
Musicians bid Europe adieu
CMU Philharmonic tour dies due to illness
By MARNI BOREK
Tartan Staffwriter
Some students of the Carnegie 
Mellon- Philharmonic had their 
wildest hopes first raised, then 
shattered this week, when a pro
posed January tour of Moscow 
and Milan fell through due to the 
unexpected illness of the conduc
tor, Vladimir Delman.
Twenty-eight current Carnegie 
Mellon students who participated 
in the RAI international orches
tra project last year, as well as
seven alumni, were notified last 
Monday that they had been se
lected to perform in Europe this 
coming January.
Not only wotild they have the 
chance to perform with talented 
musicians from the Soviet Union 
and Italy, but they would once 
again be able to work with 
Delman, who had conducted the 
original project in February.
Unfortunately, the trip was 
cancelled by the Music Depart
ment Friday upon learning of 
Delmans ailing health.
In the spring of 1988, Music 
Department Head Marilyn Taft 
Thomas submitted a tape of the 
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic 
Orchestra to be considered for a 
film series, Le Magnifiche Six, 
about the music of Peter Ilyich 
Tchaikovsky and about the workput into preparing an orchestra 
for a concert. The project was'or
ganized by RAI, the premiere 
Italian television network.
Delman chose three youth or
chestras  one from the Soviet 
Please see EUROPE, page LL4
!y ALLISON DURAZZI pus to promote and clarify the program
fartan Features Editor  for interested students. Doubinsky was
^ LAURIE WILKISON the director of the program at^. Stanford
'artan Staffwriter for thirty years.
The program can accommodate from 
Come next March, applications will be 20 to 55 people. Students will eventually 
me for the Carnegie Mellon Centre de need to be proficient in French, but this 
[ours, a study abroad program recently should not deter interested students from 
^ken over by the University from applying.
tanford University. 5I: think, Doubinsky said, tl^e only
; ^ast Tuesday through Thursday, Proi academic criterion will be that (students] 
gssor Claude Doubinsky, the Centres have the equivalent of one year college'esident director in France, was on.cam- level French.... If a student doesnt have
"Tours offers an exposure to real France that 
Paris does not.
 Claude Doubinsky, 
____________resident director of Centre de Tours
that, [it is likely that there will be] inten- ' Although )the core of the Stanford prosive French classes for those students gram- will remain, CMUs ifritial budget 
going to France.... Its a question of get- only allows- it to take over about half of 
ting students interested in the program. the program' in material terms.
The Centre also offers a wide variety of 
courses in addition to mandatory lan
guage classes. The aim of the program is 
to allow participating students to spend 
a semester abroad without a loss of credits 
which would put them behind and delay 
graduation.
However, it is not certain now whether 
students from every department will be 
able to study in the Centre and still meet 
the specific requirements of their de
partment.
Please see FRANCE, page 3
ffs Christmas time in the citv...
Inside
i; Classifieds
i Comics.....................
J Diversions............
 Features....................
< prum.....................
 Sports..............
; University Calendar 
: vox Populi.................
Ben Glass/1990 Orion Pictures
Kevin Costner rides with a Union 
flag in Dances With Wolves. See 
review on page Lll.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990
THIS JUST INMl
Business leaders, Bush discuss economy
WASHINGTON (AP)  Thursday, 
President Bush met with leaders of 
some of the nations largest corporations 
and banks as part of a series of private 
sessions to help him gauge whether the 
economy is in a recession.
The presidentis tryingto decide what 
steps he might be able to take to help 
soften the impact of the current slow
down, said a White House official.
The official, speaking on the condition 
of anonymity, said todays meeting fol
lows a Wednesday meeting between 
President Bush and bank regulators 
and the administrations economic offi
cials.
Its an opportunity for the president 
to hear them (the business leaders). 
These are listening sessions, an official 
said.
The sessions are an outgrowth of a 
meeting Bush had last weekend at the 
presidential retreat at Camp David, 
Md., with Treasury Secretary Nicholas 
Brady, chief White House economist 
Michael Boskin, Budget Director Ri
chard Darman, and Vice President Dan
Quayle.
The president, at a news conference last 
Thursday, said he was concerned about 
an economic slowdown in the economy.
Friday, business leaders told President 
Bush today that the economy is bordering 
on, or is already in a recession, but at least 
one top banker said there is little the 
government can do about it.
Bush met with approximately eight 
leaders from banking, industry, and re
tailing at the White House in discussions 
aimed at seeking new stimulants for eco
nomic growth, a White House official said, 
but he declined to identify who the ex
ecutives were. Also attending the meet
ings .were Treasury Secretary Nicholas 
Brady, and Budget Director Richard 
Darman.
I think theres probably a view (among 
the business leaders) that we may have 
slipped into a recession, said JohnMedlin, 
President and Chief Executive of First 
Wachovia Corp. of Winston-Salem, N.C. 
who attended the meeting. I think that 
would be a center of gravity.
Some say [the economy entered a re
cession] as early as last summer.
Some say in the third quarter, Medlin 
said. There was not much argument 
that we were somewhere in that area 
between a little growth and a little de
cline which Medlin described as an eco
nomic twilight zone.
Everyone generally agreed that hous
ing and real estate was a problem area, 
a very weak area, probably one of the 
weakest in the whole economy, Medlin 
said. But, he added, there was a hint of 
optimism. I think there was pleasure 
that interest rates seem to be coming 
down, he said.
There was a consensus that the 
economy is either in a recession or on the 
verge of one, said Dick Morrow, Chair
man and CEO of Amoco.
The assessment is in line with the 
opinion of virtually all the executives 
from industry, finance and service busi
nesses with whom the president has met 
since promising to hold wide-ranging 
consultations on the economy late last 
week.
Bushs meeting with ten top execu
tives was the fourth such session with 
economic advisers from both inside and 
outside his administration since last Fri
day. Throughout each session, the 
president has heard essentially the same 
message: the economy is headed for 
trouble.
In an interview with CNN Thursday, 
Bush conceded that the economy was in 
a downturn, but stopped short of say
ing it was in a recession. He also sug
gested that if a recession occurred, it 
would be shallow and last only six 
months.
The president ... used the term 
downturn,[in the CNN interview], said 
White House Budget Director Richard 
Darman at a separate Washington 
speaking engagement. Thats certainly 
the opinion given him by all the outsid
ers who have talked with him on the 
subject and indeed his own inside ad
visers. And I think thats the conventional 
wisdom at the moment.
But Darman said Bush will likely wait 
until the third week of Decemberafter 
he completes a series of trips abroad to
the Middle East, Europe, and SouM 
America  before making any signift 
cant decisions about what to do to help 
the economy.
Another group of business leaders ii 
vited to the White House for consult# 
tions told President Bush the economy\ 
headed for difficult times.
Most of any action he takes to spur the 
economy will likely occur in conjunction 
with his plans for the fiscal 1992 budget 
to be presented to Congress in January 
Darman said.
Attending the White House meeting 
Friday were Carl Reichardt, Chairman 
of Wells Fargo Bank; Harold Poling 
Chairman of Ford Motor Co.; Hugh 
McColl of NCNB; Dick Morrow, Chairman and CEA of Amoco; Donald Breni 
Chairman of the Irvine Co.; Josep} 
Albritton, Chairman of Riggs National 
Bank; Norm Brenker, Chairman ; 
CEO of Chilis Inc.; Robert Pritzker 
President and CEO of Marmon Groilp 
John Mcgillicuddy, Chairman and; 
President of Manufacturers Hanovec 
Trust.
Lab transistors made of 
high-temp superconductors
; ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.  
Scientists at Sandia National 
Laboratories here said they 
fabricated the first transistors 
made entirely from new liightemperature superconductors.
Collaborating with research
ers at the University of Wis
consin, the Sandia team said it 
incorporated the prototype 
transistors in several kinds of 
electronic circuits used in com
munications.
The researchers made the socalled superconducting flux flow 
transistors, or SFFTs, from thallium-containing compounds that 
conduct electricity without resis
tance when cooled with liquid ni
trogen. Superconductors promise 
a number of electronic advances, 
including devices that handle data 
at much higher speeds than con
ventional silicon-based circuits 
can.
However, several hurdles remain to commercializing 
SFFTs, including developing 
economically practical manu
facturing processes, cautioned 
Paul Peercy, a Sandia research 
manager.
Still, the SFFT has out
standing promise, Peercy said. 
Even in prototype form, it works 
faster and uses much less power 
than most silicon devices. AU.S. 
patent application has been filed 
for the transistor, he added.
Bush talks turkey with 
American troops in Gulf
Pentagon sends In Ml tanks
WASHINGTON (DJ)  Wednesday, the Penta
gon announced an increase in the authority to call 
up reserve forces for Operation Desert Shield in 
Saudi Arabia.
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney gave permission 
for involuntary call-ups of72,500 more members of 
the National Guard and military reserves.
The new authority raises the call-up ceiling to
80.000 for the Army, 20,000 for the Air Force and
15.000 for the Marine Corps. The Navy was granted 
a call-up ceiling of 10,000 Tuesday.
Under new authorization granted by Congress, 
the Pentagon can retain the reserves on active duty 
for up to a year. To date, 35,562 members of the 
reserves have been called to active duty since Aug.
23, when Cheney first gave authority to the ser
vices to call up reserves.
On Wednesday night, the first of several hundred 
khaki-colored Ml A1 Abrams tanks, to be repainted 
in desert camouflage, rolled off a ship in Saudi 
Arabia. The tanks will replace Ml tanks in all 
front-line Army units in the country, with better 
protection from chemical and biological warfare, a 
larger gun and thicker armor. They will face Iraqs 
Soviet-made tanks.
The Ml is better than anything the Iraqis have, 
said Army spokesman Major Douglas Bidle, 38, of 
Arlington Heights, 111. I'he Ml gave us an edge. 
This is a better tank, so obviously this is an even 
better edge.
WASHINGTON (AP)  Presi
dent Bush left Friday on an eightday trip to Europe and the Middle 
East. Hell sign an historic EastWest arms control agreement in 
Paris and become the first presi
dent to visit front-line troops 
since Lyndon Johnson in Viet
nam.
Aides said Bush would seek to 
coordinate his Gulf policies when 
he meets with leaders of the So
viet Union, Britain, and France 
at the three-day Paris gather
ing.
In particular, officials said, 
Bush plans to sound out these 
and other members of the 15- 
member U.N. Security Council 
on wording of a proposed resolu
tion to authorize force to drive 
Iraq from Kuwait.
The purpose of the summit^ 
however, is to begin building a 
new European order. This effort 
is being overshadowed by Soviet 
woes at home and the U.S. wor
ries in the Persian Gulf.
At the planned summit meet
ing starting Monday, President 
Bush, Soviet President Mikhail 
Gorbachev and 33 other leaders 
will take historic steps that ef
fectively will cement in place 
changes that began sweeping 
Europe months ago.
Th two military alliances led 
by the U.S. and Soviet Union will 
sign a treaty cutting conventional 
arms in Europe, their first con
ventional arms deal. The alliances 
also will sign a nonaggression 
declaration that Secretary of State 
James Baker says will bury the 
Cold War hatchet. And all the 
nations represented in Paris will 
agree on a plan to make the Con
ference on Security and Coopera
tion in Europe, their once sleepy 
informal grouping, into a stabi
lizing force with a permanent 
headquarters, a conflict-prevention center, and a unit for moni
toring elections in the new Eu
rope.
Historic as those changes are, 
though, they arent being greeted 
with the satisfaction that would 
have been felt just a few months 
ago. Gorbachevs daunting prob
lems at home, including the rapid 
deterioration of the Soviet 
economy and growing social and 
ethnic unrest, hav taken the 
shine off the meeting and created 
pressure on him to translate for
eign-policy achievements quick]# 
into  more tangible benefits foij 
the beleaguered Soviet populace; 
As a result, his focus has been on 
efforts to sweep up economic 
credits in Western European 
countries.
Andrei Kozyrev, a 39-year-old 
diplomat who was appointed for-, 
eign minister of the Russian re
public, says the Soviet public-is 
anxious to feel the effects of the 
somewhat abstract notions t 
have characterized Gorbachevs 
policies. Yet Soviet officials d 
expect the Paris meeting .to 
translate into much, if any, im
mediate aid for their nation.
President Bush, meanwhile 
will be using the gathering J 
world leaders as much to coordj; 
nate policy in the confrontati$ 
with Iraq as to discuss the futijij 
of Europe.
News Briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc. 
Layout by 
Rhonda Struminger 
Daniel D. de Grandpre
Carnegie Mellon
'BW
DINNER MENU
Sparkling Apple Cider 
Heart}/ Winter Salad 
Roast Top Round of Beef 
with Madiera Wine Sauce 
Broccoli and 
Cauliflower Florettes 
Parslied Red Potatoes 
Sour Dough & 
Pumpernickel Breads 
with whipped butter 
Cherries /iibilee 
Choice of Beverage
ENTERTAINMENT
Provided by CMU Drama and 
Music Students and Friends; 
Jugglers, Belly dancers, Brass 
Players, and more ... .
INFORMATION ...
CALL 268-2109
Medieval Dress is encouraged!
TICKETS
Purchase at
Skibo Information desk; 
Monday, November 12 to 
Wednesday, December 5 
9:00 am - 5:00 pm
IWrigal jfetB
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7 
AND SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8
RECEPTION
6:00 pm Scotland Yard/Wherrett Room
DINNER
7:00 pm Skibo Ballroom
PRICE
$10.00 CMU students 
$20.00 non CMU students 
$7.00 children under 10
Presented by the Division of Student Affairs, Student Activities, Alumni Relations, and Activities Board

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 19903
EH releases teaching report
L DAVID LADEK
'artan Assistant News Editor
need for colleges and uniffeties to reward teaching as 
-ell as research is only one of the 
eins in a report recently released 
the National Endowment for 
Humanities aimed at exposjgthe problems in the American 
luxation system and what should 
'dfjne about them.
"The report, Tyrannical Malijies: A Report on Educational 
ractices Gone Wrong and Our 
Hopes for Setting Then Right, 
ates that the road to success  
,gVen to survival  in the acatfiic world is through publishSome professors teach under 
ve'hours a week, and frequently 
atinguish between teaching 
id what they often call, signifiintly, my. own work, or reiarch, states the report. 
Carnegie Mellon is much betr-than many other schools across 
ie country, said Ted Fenton, co
rector of the University TeachgCenter. We have some courses 
iught by graduate students, but 
ot so many as [the University of 
ajifornia at] Berkley. The 
aduate students that do teach
are screened very well. Were bet
ter than most, but we still have a 
long way to go.
I would have to agree that that 
has been a trend, said Carnegie 
Mellon Director of Admissions 
Michael Steidel. Not so much 
here at Carnegie Mellon, but na
tionwide, yes. Carnegie Mellons 
policy has always been to be both 
a creator of information and a 
teacher ofthat information. Some 
schools are all teaching and no 
research, some are mostly research-oriented. Carnegie Mellon 
wants to do both well.
The report says that the term 
tyrannical machines, used in the 
title, is attributed to philosopher 
William James. As James de
scribed it, ways of doing things 
that are well justified in the be
ginning tend, when established 
widely, to become tyrannical 
machines. According to the re
port, this applies to several edu
cational practices.
The way we prepare teachers 
may well keep many bright people 
from entering the profession, the 
report states. Having to take 
courses that are intellectually 
demeaning no doubt helps dis
courage academically talented 
students from wanting to become
teachers. The report says that 
teachers find many of the re
quirements to be able to teach 
arbitrary and unjustified, and 
analysts have agreed.
I think that its important for 
teachers to learn how to teach, 
said Steidel. If teachers think 
that these courses are demeaning, 
then we should change them. But 
good teachers want to learn how 
to keep current in their field and 
teach better  good courses will 
help in those areas.
Fenton said, In several de
partments, we have set up pro
grams that are run by professors 
iii the departments themselves. 
Many people hired as teachers 
and professors are actually 
trained in a research-oriented 
environment. In these depart
ments, such as Civil Engineering, 
Math, and Computer Science, 
there are programs that help 
people learn to be a TA, and then 
to be a teacher.
Another point mentioned in the 
report is that parents should be 
able to choose where their child 
goes to school. [Free choice] en
courages schools to work to attract 
students  and the funding that 
goes along with them, says the 
report. Having parents choose
their childs school would spur 
schools to improve the programs 
that they offer.
There is some merit to choos
ing a school, says Steidel. Cities 
with magnet programssuch as 
Pittsburgh  sort of have that 
idea implemented. As long as one 
students choice doesnt hurt an
other, I think that that is good.
The report also criticizes a part 
of education that has been criti
cized more than once before  
the Scholastic Aptitude Test. The 
United States alone ... has at the 
center of its educational system a 
test that tries assiduously to be 
curriculum free, states the re
port. Teachers teach for the SAT, 
the report says, and neglect more 
important aspects of education.
The SAT tries to avoid what 
students lave learned about his
tory, literature, and other sub
jects, says the report.
Steidel said that both high 
schools and colleges must stop 
teaching to tests.
We should instead, teach how 
to learn, how to solve problems 
and think creatively. The lifelong 
process of learning doesnt stop 
after high school or college  but 
we seem to say that it does, said 
Steidel.
Students seek 
scholarships
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Four Carnegie Mellon stu
dents are applying for this years 
Rhodes scholarships, which are 
among the most honored of all 
graduate scholarships. Winners 
are sent to graduate school at 
Oxford University in England.
Robert OToole, a senior me
chanical engineeringmajor, said 
that if he won, he would use the 
time to simply learn even more. 
My plans would be to either 
continue in my study of engi
neering in some aspect, or pos
sibly try for a graduate degree in 
physiology, as a step toward 
entering medical school, he said. 
Right now, Im not sure what I 
want to do.
Although OToole wasnt sure 
whether or not he would go to 
graduate school if he didnt win 
the scholarship, he would still 
take every advantage that hes 
given. It seems like at Carnegie 
Mellon, you have to have a reasonfor doing something like this. 
Right now, I dont know why I
am trying for this scholarship. 
My reason for applying for this 
scholarship was not goal ori
ented  except for the sake of 
furthering my education.
I might not have the chance 
to do this again  take two 
years and just study. If I get a 
job, then things get caught up, 
and bills begin, and I probably 
wont have the chance. This 
would be a new, different ex
perience, and I would take 
advantage of it as much as I 
could.
Besides being captain of the 
football team, OToole has a 
4.0 QPA and is a brother and 
one-time president of Beta 
Theta Pi.
I can only go as far as the 
committee would like, said 
applicant Ellen Barry. A second-year graduate student in 
the School of Urban and Pub
lic Affairs, Barry says she 
would study psychology, phi
losophy, and physiology with 
a scholarship.
My ultimate goal is to do 
Please see RHODES, page 5
%
cite aiiuucuua uuaL u.u ucaui oi/uucuuo uum yycujlULLig ucwmc i cpui o. u.avmg pa.1 uvciuci. -*w   , - '    -j ~ ricoac acc nnui/u, [Jdgt
MU study abroad program sets course for Tours
:E, from page 1 Students are offered the possibility of autonomy and yet allow students to [visit color, that makes a community of cul- a working program with experiencANCE, from page 1
Doubinsky stressed that through disssions with department heads in both 
aces, the administration hopes to be 
)Ie' to arrange specific programs for 
lnifie students so they wont lose credit, 
iftoill try to work around the need for 
lalized courses, he said, 
tlire are classes from other local uniiisfties in business and art, for exuple, that could be utilized as part of 
'program. Like Stanford, Carnegie 
lon will probably send a faculty 
eitiber over each semester to teach a 
i^cific CMU course.
[n the lectures held at Scaife Auditolm, Doubinsky stressed that the Cen-, 
does everything possible to give stuints contact with the French culture, 
iudents are housed with French fami^s.1 These families have been chosen for 
eir genuine interest in making contact 
th1 foreign students and not just for 
btfomic reasons.
Students are offered the possibility of 
teaching English classes in local high 
schools. There are also peer groups called 
English Clubs which are eager for 
American students to join. We never 
remain passive in encouraging integra
tion, Doubinsky said. The Centre also 
encourages participation in other stu
dent organizations as well as sporting 
activities.
The center also provides guidebooks 
and assistance to help students travel 
intelligently on the weekends, to other 
parts of France and to other countries.
Doubinsky made strong points for 
studying in Tours as opposed to other 
programs that study in more touristattractive cities, like Paris. Tours is 
both close to Paris and far enough; far 
enough to have its own cultural, histori
cal, and intellectual [identity], he said. 
It has an active theater in which CMU 
drama students could participate. So, 
its far enough to have its own cultural
autonomy and yet allow students to [visit 
Paris] for the weekend, or even for a free 
day. The new high speed train, the TJV, 
puts Tours within under an hour away 
from Paris.
Tours offers an exposure to real France 
that Paris does not... [Paris] is a myth of 
a city, and deservedly so, but it does not 
give students a feel for what the reality 
of French culture any more than New 
York would.... Tours is much closer to 
grassroots France, he said, describing it 
as a lively little city ... [which is] 
heartening and cheery.
Doubinsky also elaborated on the ben
efits of study abroad, not solely academi
cally, but culturally as well. Getting to 
know others leads [students] to not only 
learn to face the challenge of adjustingto 
... an unfamiliar culture, but also to look 
at themselves, at their own culture, their 
own language in a different light, he 
said. They discover that ... it is not a 
community of ethnic background, or of
color, that makes a community of cul
ture. They discover their own Americanness.
These benefits are long-lasting, said 
Doubinsky.
Stanford University has conducted 
several surveys of all its former stu
dents, asking them which was the most 
formative aspect of their four years at 
Stanford, and [approximately] ninety 
percent stated their study abroad was 
the single most formative experience in 
their education, said Doubinsky.
Although Tours was chosen mainly for 
its history and location, an added ad
vantage is that the university there is 
much like Carnegie Mellon. It seems 
that more and more of the concerns of 
Carnegie Mellon correspond with the 
concerns of Tours, Doubinsky said. I 
think it was chosen at first because 
Carnegie Mellon wanted to have a good 
program in France, and the opportunity 
has just arisen recently for a take over of
a working program with experience.
The lifestyle of Tours is another plus 
according to Doubinsky.
Tours is a great minor city, he said. 
Its rich, dynamic in terms of industrial 
development ... also in a historical and-- 
cultural past, and in trying to make thebest of both strengths, and I think weve^ 
succeeded. The city has everything you1  
could need, excellent medical facilities;1 
its own university, and efficient admin
istrative services for any problems with 
visas all in a compact surface. People are 
nice and extremely welcoming to 
strangers.
Certain details are as yet undefined, 
but by the proposed March application 
deadline they should be finalized within 
the departments as far as maintaining 
credits and required courses for gradua
tion.
The program is guaranteed by the 
administration to work out to the same 
price as a semester at Carnegie Mellon.
Tl awards Cyert medal
former University President Richard M. Cyert has been 
warded the Willard F. Rockwell Jr. medal by the International 
ichnology Institute (ITI). The Rockwell medal, awarded for 
ntributions to furthering advances in technology, is the highest 
yard given by ITI. He received the medal on November 8 at the 
11990 International Congress on Technology and Technology 
^change.
Dr. Cyert made a unique combination of contributions in the 
eas of technology, economics and education. This combination 
tyhere [he] really shone, said Dr. I.S. Tuba, one of the 
tiiders of ITI.
-yert was also this years only inductee into the World-Wide 
ul of Fame for Engineering, Science and Technology, 
unong many other noteworthy achievements, Cyert was 
tnimental in the establishment of the Andrew network on 
pus, and was also responsible for the foundation of the 
Jotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon.
vyert is currently involved in the development of the UniverI Ideology of Economics, which emphasizes human-generated 
ources such as knowledge and technology. His work in this 
ea f economics was another achievement which was recog-ed by ITI.
>DC fathers Sex Week
'fext Sunday through Saturday will be hailed as Sex Week, 
cording to the Student Dormitory Council, which will sponsor 
fts during that week to increase sexual awareness and Ucation.
Jjext Monday evening at 7 pm, condom decorating contests will 
, eld in Mudge, Morewood, Donner, and Hamerschlag. Resints affix the decorated condoms to their RAs door and the 
)st creatively decorated door will win a prize, which is yet to be
II ed. Also that evening, at 8 pm, SDC will hold a Sex Bowl in 
)nner Mudge, Morewood, and the West Wing. Teams of five
 fers will compete in answering sexual trivia questions. 
ext Tuesday night, in Morewood at 8 pm, Sex Week will 
j* mue with Sex in the Lobby. People will have the chance to 
; Members of the opposite sex about anything which they have 
Jays been curious.
5peakers from Planned Parenthood will talk about safe sex and 
P anned pregnancy in the Wherrett Room at 9 pm next 
'Puesday, November 28.
ext Thursday, a woman with the AIDS virus will speak at the
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Womens Center.
The Sex Bowl championship will be held on Friday at 7 pm, 
and SDC will close Sex Week with the Suitcase Dance at 10 pm 
in the Skibo Ballroom. Everyone attending the dance should 
bring a packed suitcase. At the end of the night, the final door 
prize will be given away; someone will win a limo-driven trip for 
two to a hotel downtown where they will spend the night. The 
winner may pick his or her partner.
SUPA dean follows clues 
to criminology
Alfred Blumstein, dean of Carnegie Mellons School of Urban 
and Public Affairs, (SUPA), has been named president-elect of 
the American Society of Criminology.
Blumstein was inaugurated on November 9 at the societys 
annual meeting in Baltimore. His term as president-elect lasts 
until next November, when he will become the organizations 
president.
Blumstein has been involved with criminology since 1965, 
when he was working at the Institute for Defense Analyses and 
was recruited to direct the Task Force on Science and Technology 
for President Johnsons Commission on Law Enforcement and 
Administration of Justice.
Since then, he has been involved with addressing many com
plex issues related to crime-control policy. The National Academy 
of Sciences has recruited him to chair a number of panels estab
lished to address research questions related to crime control, 
sentencing and criminal careers.
Blumstein has served as dean of SUPA for the past four and a 
half years and has been a SUPA faculty member since 1969.
Students, government unite 
with drug, alcohol pamphlet
Carnegie Mellon industrial management majors Walt Schearer 
and Hyun Shin are working with the Division of Student Affairs 
and the Department of Legal Affairs to distribute an informa
tional pamphlet on drugs and alcohol, as required by a new 
federal law.
The new law requires all universities and colleges to certify 
they will distribute pamphlets describing their drug and alcohol 
policy. Failure to do so will result in the loss of all government
funding to the institution.
The final regulation about the content of the pamphlet was 
instituted on August 16. The pamphlet is required to contain all 
federal and state laws and punishments pertaining to alcohol 
and drugs. The pamphlet must also contain the Universitys 
alcohol and drug policies.
The pamphlet addresses how University policies affect all the ^ 
different employees, said Alvin Brannick, senior vice-president 
for legal affairs. There is a faculty and staff section, a student _ 
section and a section describing the federal and state laws 
common to all. It was a very big job.
Schearer and Shin took on the distribution of the pamphlet as 
a project. [They] are putting together the Universitys battle 
plan, said Brannick.
The pamphlets are currently scheduled for distribution on 
March 1,1991. Carnegie Mellon is required to distribute the 
pamphlet every year.
Departments sponsor 
learning workshop
The Departments of Philosophy, Economics, and Social and 
Decision Sciences will sponsor a learning workshop on December 
1 and 2.
On December 1, Ehud Kalai, from Northwestern University, 
will speak at 1 pm on Bayesian Learning and Nash Equilib
rium.
Lectures will continue on December 2 at 10 am with Jay 
McClelland, from the CMU Department of Psychology, who will 
speak on Graded State Machines: Learning. John Miller, from 
the Social and Decision Sciences Department, will speak on 
Genetic Algorithms, at 11:30 am.
All lectures will be held in Baker Hall 355. For information 
about these and other lectures, contact Peter Spirtes at x8571.
Compiled by MATT ADLER
Correction...
In the photo on page 1 (Club sports may win funding, 11/
12), Tom Anfusos name was misspelled.
In County donates Hombostel architectural drawings (11/
5, page 1), the drawings were donated to the architecture 
archives, not to the University archives.

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990
Professors argue 
death penalty
By ROBERT WYNER
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon played host to 
a debate between Professor Wil
liam Donohue of La Roche College 
and Professor Bruce Ledewitz of 
the Duquesne University School 
of Law concerning capital pun
ishment on Tuesday.
Donohue, representing the procapital-punishment argument, 
began the debate by pointing out 
the growing rate of crime in the 
United States and the inefficiency 
of our criminal justice system.
Donohue attributed the weak
ness of our criminal justice sys
tem to the governments reluc
tance to punish. Donohue said 
people in the US would rather 
rehabilitate criminals than pun
ish them and all evidence sug
gests that rehabilitation does not 
work.
Donohue believes that capital 
punishment will make our soci
ety a safer place by acting as a 
deterrent for those who would 
murder and by keeping prison 
guards safe from murderers who
have nothing to lose. According to 
Donohue, capital punishment is 
desirable for the one reason that 
it is justice. Donohue claimed 
that capital punishment promotes 
the pricelessness of human life by 
showing that society is willing to 
kill in order to save lives.
Ledewitzs responded by insist
ing that it is wrong to kill and that 
people do not have the right to 
take anothers life. On Donohues 
claim that capital punishment 
promotes the value of human life, 
he said that if you want to teach 
the value of human life, you dont 
kill, you refrain from killing.
In response to Donohues point 
that 80 percent of the American 
people support it, Ledewitz said 
that it is desired because of our 
instinct to kill, not for justice. He 
refuted his opponents claim that 
capital punishment would act as 
a deterrent by saying that the 
fear of execution is not sufficiently 
worse than the fear of life in prison 
to stop a murderer from killing.
Ledewitz also said that while in 
prison, these murderers have not 
posed a threat to guards security.
Student Senate Minutes
Minutes of November 13, 1990
Meeting called to order at 7:05 
pm.
Senators Present: Austin, 
Barnes, Blake, Dautermann, 
Dean, Gelman, Golembiewski, 
Huang, Kaufman, Loomis, Meek, 
Moran, Neighbor, Shin, Spivack 
(late), Venable, Wyatt, Zucker.
Senators Absent: Bucholtz, 
Crehan, Kadesh (exc), Lewis, 
Rubinstein, Schaeffer.
Ex-Officios Present: 
Ginsburg, Mac Donald, Dean 
Murphy, Dean Witchner.
Corrections of last weeks 
minutes:
Seth Kaufmans absence was 
excused. Abuse was spelled 
wrong. Surveys were not to be 
handed out to friends so that a 
random sample of students could 
be found. Only some people liked 
the tables closer.
Student Dormitory Council 
 Courtney MacDonald: No
vember 26-30 is Sex Week.
Greek Council  Otis 
Ginsburg: Greek Council met 
with President Mehrabian. There 
will be a summary report at the 
end of the week. Mr. Fraternity 
sold out (about 500 people).
President  Kishore Rao: 
Rao is taking PSAC and VPSAC 
agenda items. They are already 
dealing with club sports, retail 
stores pricing, the University 
Center, and the performing arts 
center. Rao is still pursuing the 
fifth year free plan. His proposal 
places equal weight on academic 
and extracurricular. [Vice Presi
dent for Enrollment William] 
Elliotts interpretation is differ
ent. See Rao for more information.
Student Senate Chair  
Chris Neighbor: Those Sena
tors whose seats are up in the 
November elections are: Crehan, 
Dean, Golembiewski, Huang, 
Kadesh, Kaufman, Lewis, 
Rubinstein, Schaeffer, Venable, 
Zucker.
Academic Affairs  Mike 
Austin: Discussing a new model 
for Disciplinary Action.
Campus AffairsBill Lewis: 
Please return surveys to Shin by 
Wednesday. The letter to improve 
CFA is still in working stages.
Funding and Recognition 
Sateria Venable: All budgets 
have been heard. November 27 is 
the meeting to hear and approve 
all budgets. Be there.
Public Relations  Mark 
Schaeffer: Happy Hour set for 
December 3. Pizza and Coca-Cola 
will be served. The president, all 
vice presidents, all deans, and all 
assistant deans will be invited. It 
was suggested that invitations be 
sent to all club presidents. Ads 
will be placed in all campus' pa
pers.
Old Business:
A Chair Pro Temp was not voted 
for in the beginning of the year. 
Neighbor foresees the need for 
one in the future. This person 
takes over if the chair is absent. 
Rubinstein and Schaeffer were 
nominated, and Rubinstein was 
elected.
New Business:
FundedRecognition: Water polo 
club.
General Discussion:
The question came up to see if it 
was possible to send people to the 
playoffs to cheer on the football 
team.
Amount of money in the special 
allocation fund is approximately 
$7000.
Announcements:
Orientation 1991 applications 
will be ready on Monday, No
vember 19. Interest sessions will 
be held. See Dean Witchner.
Senate meetings will possibly 
be held on Wednesdays at 8 pm 
next semester.
No meeting the week of 
Thanksgiving. The next meeting 
is on November 27.
Meeting adjourned at 7:40 pm.
RESEARCH ASSOCIATE POSITION
The Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public 
Health, University of Pittsburgh invites applications for a 
Research Associate position as a statistician. The position 
requires an advanced degree in statistics or 
information/computer science, knowledge of computer 
languages, systems analysis and statistical methods, and 
experience in data analysis and management of large medical 
data sets related to diabetes. The successful candidate will be 
responsible for maintaining database and computing systems, 
conducting statistical and data analyses, preparing reports on 
methodologies, interpretation of results, teaching students on a 
individual basis and supervision of staff. Salary will be 
commensurate with experience. Send letter of intent, curriculum 
vitae, and the names of three references to: Administrator, 
Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public 
Health, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15261.
THE UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH IS AN EQUAL 
OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION EMPLOYER.
Visitors to review departments
COMMITTEES, from page 1
then-Carnegie Mellon President John 
Warner. Those committees agendas and 
schedules were set by individual depart
ments, said Fetkovich, which caused a lack 
of uniformity among committees across 
the university. Most of those committees 
died out by the early 1970s under the 
Cyert administration, said Fetkovich, 
probably due to financial constraints.
Fetkovich examined other programs be
fore devising this plan. In addition to 
speaking with faculty members who serve 
on committees for other institutions, he 
looked at programs at MIT, Harvard, and 
Case Western Reserve.
Deans and department heads are recep
tive to the idea of visiting committees, 
according to Fetkovich. Initially, he said, 
there were some who were concerned. 
Part of the job I had to do was to understand 
the concerns and design the system so no 
serious problems would arise.
One of the biggest concerns, he said, was 
that the new system would harm existing 
committees. We are trying very hard to 
design the system so that it will not dam
age any existing systems, he said. At the 
same time, they will serve the purpose that 
the board wants.
The hazard that Im concerned about, 
said H&SS Dean Stephen Fienberg, is 
that because there will be so many, com
mittees that there will be a need to juggle 
them, and scheduling problems might not 
allow us to get the number of people we 
want. Fienberg has coordinated visiting 
committees that were significantly smaller 
 usually three or four people  within 
the college of Humanities and Social Sci
ences for the past three years and said that 
they are difficult to schedule.
In terms of how the new system will work 
compared to the system H&SS has used for
"How are we going to get the kind of advice we 
got before in addition to achieving the other objec
tives the University has set? I think were going to 
see if we can, and if we cant, well see how we 
can adapt the system. 
 John Fetkovich, 
special assistant to the president
the last three years, Fienberg said he is keep
ing an open mind. Were going to try it out 
this spring, although there is a question^et as 
to which H&SS department will be reviewed, 
he said. The committee has multiple objec
tives. How are we going to get the kind of 
advice we got before in addition to achieving 
the other objectives the University has set? I 
think were going to see if we can, and if we 
cant, well see how we can adapt the system. 
Concerns about the. frequency of visits also 
exists, Fetkovich said. Some claim every two 
years is too often, he said. Even more have 
told me that its not enough  that they 
should meet yearly.
Deans and department heads dont view 
this as interference either from the adminis
tration or the trustees, Fetkovich said. This 
is not an adversarial process, he said. We 
want a group that will join forces with depart
ments and assist them in achieving their 
goals and help them decide what their best 
directions are. Assessment of status and cur
rent plans is part of that, but its a part that 
departments should be doing anyway.
I think it is a wonderful idea, said Marilyn 
Taft Thomas, head of the Music Department. 
In the Music Department, I am most anxious 
to increase our visibility among people on the
committee. Its good to step back and look at 
things from a different vantage point.  
Thomas said that the additional expfc' 
sure to the Board of Trustees would also 1$ 
helpful. I look forward to additional visibil'-' 
ity on the Board of Trustees, she said. We 
have several trustees who are very inter
ested and very caring about the Music De*; 
partment already.
Fetkovich envisions a rotation in which' 
seven or eight committees will visit depart 
ments each semester. He said plans for next 
semester only call for visits of four to six 
departments, including those of Chemical' 
Engineering, Chemistry, Design, and tfifl 
Carnegie Mellon Research Institute.' 
Chemical Engineering was already in the1 
process of establishing a committee before' 
the program was announced, said Fetkovich,"' 
while CMRI and Design have committees 
already in operation. Chemistry had n'ocommittee and was not in the process of; 
building one, he said.
In other news, the Board of Trustees: 
considered a proposal to rename the^ 
College of Fine Arts Hornbostel Hall 
approved the fiscal 1990-91 budget 
heard a proposal for a tuition-free fiftii 
year plan.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
If you think you've come far in the past four years, you won't believe how far you could go in the next five.
If you've spent the past four years 
developing a solid technical background, we 
have an extraordinary opportunity for you: 
The Travelers Telecommunications Technology 
Management Program (TTMP).
The most comprehensive training pro
gram of its kind in the financial services indus
try, TTMP is a five-year introduction to a 
state-of-the-art telecommunications environ
ment. Through a variety of rotational assign
mentsand supplemental classroom study 
TTMP is singly focused on developing the man
agers who will keep us on the cutting edge.
TTMP is not easy and it's not for every
one. But, if you're looking to develop the full 
range of skills needed to manage the most 
sophisticated telecommunications technology 
available, there's simply no better place to 
begin your career.
Find out more. Come to The Travelers' 
Information Session on Thursday, November 
29th, at 4:00 PM, SkiboHall, Room 45-where 
you'll also be able to sign up for an interview. 
Casual dress. Refreshments will be served.
TheTravelers^
You're better off under the Umbrella
TheTravelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183.An Equal Opportunity Employer.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 19905
four CMU students vie for Rhodes scholarships
ODES, from page 3
ild advocacy law when I get out 
school, said Barry. The comnation of those three subjects 
,uld be good for me, because 
ey all fit in with the career that 
vant to pursue. You cant, as a 
yyer, resolve a conflict with 
meone who you arent in contact 
th^-this program allows me to 
come more in contact with the 
ildren."
Barry also said that if she 
esnt go to Oxford with the 
iodes, she would like to do some 
aduate school or perhaps find 
jnternship. I want to study 
road, though, she said. You 
learn so much in different 
ays abroad.
About her chances, Barry was 
timistic. I have such varied 
terests. My undergraduate mawas violin, Im now in SUPA 
a grad student, and I rowed 
th the crew team. Im happy 
th what Ive done [in college], 
e done it well, and I just have to 
my best.
Kim Keeton, another Rhodes 
holarship applicant, is a corn
ier engineering and engineer
ed public policy double maIf I dont get this scholarship, 
still definitely be going to grad
Sasmita/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Senior Robert OToole.
school, I just have no idea where, 
said Keeton. If I get to go to 
Oxford, Id like to enter the engi
neering economics, policy, and 
management area of study. She 
said that that would give her more 
of a broader base in her area of 
expertise.
Im trying to resolve the conflict 
between the technical fields of 
engineering and my extracur
ricular and leadership activities, 
she said. I dont know how much 
of each that I want in my job later 
in the future. The wide range of 
activities in that field of study 
give me a base no matter what I
Kishor Rao/Tartan Photographer 
Graduate student Ellen Barry.
do.
Keeton also wants to use her 
time in school to help develop her 
leadership potential more. I dont 
even know if I have a chance [at 
winning], she said. I think Ive 
been active enough, and my in
terests are varied, but you never 
know.
Senior economics major Marc 
Roston was interested in studying 
several interrelated topics at 
Oxford. My major fields of study 
would probably be philosophy, 
politics, and economics, said 
Roston. He explained that the 
three are combined into one cur
Kishor Rao/Tartan Photographer 
Senior Kim Keeton.
riculum at Oxford because, in 
many ways, they are indivisible. 
What happens to one often de
termines what happens to the 
other.
That course of study would 
prepare me for my future as an 
economist, said Roston. When 
asked what he thought of his 
chances, he said, I dont think I 
have a great chancethe chance 
is there, but its small.
Roston said that no matter what 
happened, he would be in gradu
ate school this fall. The Massa
chusetts Institute of Technology 
and the University of Chicago are
Kishor Rao/Tartan Photographer 
Senior Marc Roston.
two very distinct possibilities, he 
said. All I do know is that I will 
be going to grad school some
where, though.
Roston also has been with the 
University Rowing Club for sev
eral years, as well as participat
ing in the Presidential Search 
Committee and doing academic 
research.
Founded in 1899 from the will 
of the late Cecil Rhodes, the 
scholarships cover living expenses 
and tuition for two years for the 
winners to attend Oxford Uni
versity. Rhodes had originally 
hoped to establish close ties
among the Anglo-Saxon elite. Af
ter the two years, the scholar
ships may be extended to cover a ' 
third year of graduate study.
Of the 71 scholarships awarded 
annually, 32 are awarded in the 
United States, with the rest in 
Britain and former British colo
nies worldwide.
The application process for the 
scholarship consists of the first 
application, which includes a 
transcript of work, letters of rec
ommendation, and a personal 
essay.
The scholarship committee then 
interviews the best candidates in 
each state. From those interviews, 
the best 12 candidates from each 
state go to one of eight regional 
interviews.
The most qualified students go 
on to the national selection pro
cess, where the final interviews 
are held. Four recipients from 
each region are then awarded the 
coveted scholarships.
They look for a person who will 
add something to Oxford as well, 
said Barry. The 4.0 QPA alone 
wont hack it. They want athletic 
people, people with extracurricu
lar activities and other events. 
They stress a total person  not 
just academically, but socially as 
well.
Crime and Incident Report
,1/9 BURGLARY, 8:04 
i. A student called Cams Police about three men
10 had somehow gotten
0 the Kappa Alpha Theta 
ority house, which was 
ked at the time, while she was there 
ne. The offenders appeared to be drunk 
dtwo were carrying plastic bags. The 
n told the student that they were 
eta Xi pledges and refused to tell the 
ident how they got into the sorority 
ise, or what they were doing in the 
ms. The student demanded that they 
ip the bags and leave. Finally, one of 
mdid drop the bag he was holding
1 all three ran out of the house through 
back door. The bag was filled with 
sonal female items: bras, slips, etc.
ie student said that she realized that 
iiffiident may have only been a fratery ifi'ank, but she was concerned that 
authorized persons had a key to the 
[ski After a police inquiry, Phi Kappa 
3ta- fraternity was found to be the 
ise of the incident but did not admit to 
ring a key.
140 ASSAULT/MEDICAL, 1:06 am. 
itudent notified Campus Police that 
had been assaulted on Morewood 
enue. According to the student, he 
friend had been walking along 
rewood at Fifth Avenue and were
calling out to some friends that were in a 
car which had stopped at the red light. 
After the light turned green, the car 
behind their friends car proceeded south 
on Morewood and then turned around to 
confront the victim and his friend. Words 
were exchanged and the victim was 
punched in the nose before the assail
ants fled the scene. The car that the 
assailants were in was possibly;a Nissan 
Stanza with a beaded necklace hanging 
on the rear view mirror. The victim suf
fered from a cut on the bridge of his nose 
and a bloody nose; he was transported by 
Campus Police to Presbyterian Hospital.
11/10 TRESPASS AND AGGRA
VATED ASSAULT, 4:22 am. Carnegie 
Mellon Police received a call that there 
was an unwanted man in the Phi Kappa 
Theta fraternity house and that he 
needed to be removed. The man left when 
he was told that the police were coming. 
He was then discovered in the Pi Kappa 
Alpha fraternity house sitting in the 
living room eating a sandwich. The 
brothers of this fraternity were prepar
ing to physically remove the man from 
their house when Campus Police arrived. 
The officers asked the man to come out
side as he was being verbally identified; 
at this point, the man became argu
mentative and physical. The trespasser 
was handcuffed and was later trans
ported to a city police station.
11/10 THEFT, 6:06 am. An Escort 
driver notified Campus Police that per
sons unknown had stolen the keys to the 
Escort van while it was running. The van 
was left running due to a bad battery 
when the complainant went into Skibo 
for a few minutes.
11/10 SAFETY, 2:13 pm. Campus 
Police noted that persons unknown had 
removed a circular grate from the floor in 
the_A30.0 corridor of Doherty Hall. The 
grate covered a two-foot-deep opening. 
The exterior stairwells which lead to this 
area are also completely dark, due to a 
broken lighting system.
11/11 OPEN LEWDNESS, 5:32 am. 
A guard reported seeing five to seven 
naked men run across Forbes Avenue 
from the fraternity area. The men were 
later observed near the Fence and were 
followed into the Delta Tau Delta frater
nity house. The house received an in
ternal citation for open lewdness.
11/13 THEFT, 9:35 pm. A student 
reported to Campus Police that her li
cense plate was taken from her 1987 red 
Ford Mustang, which was parked at the 
Morewood parking meters.
11/14 UNAUTHORIZED USE, 11:01 
am. Campus Police were notified of an 
unauthorized person using a computer 
in GSIA room 19. The person was not a
CMU student and was using the account 
of a non-GSIA student; he had gained 
access to numerous file servers that are 
protected. The cluster is reserved for 
GSIA students only and it is not legal for 
anyone to use another persons pass
word or account. The unauthorized per
son had these rules explained to him and 
said that he understood the policies and 
would not use the Universitys equipment 
or cluster. He was found later, however, 
in Baker Hall room 140. He was operating 
a computer to which he had connected 
his personal, external hard drive. He 
said that he required information from 
the CMU computers to power his sys
tem. He was a juvenile and his parents 
were notified. They were informed that 
the minor was not permitted to use the 
computer system unless in the company 
of a person affiliated with CMU and that 
no external devices were permissible. 
His actions constituted theft of services 
and the external hard drive was confis
cated until it is determined whether any 
university computer systems informa
tion had been copied.
11/15 THEFT, 6:13 pm. A student 
reported to Campus Police that his bi
cycle had been stolen from the Skibo bike 
rack sometime between November 9 and 
November 14. The bicycle was a 21 -speed 
Specialized Hard Rock Mountain Bike,
black with yellow writing, and was valued at $319.
11/15 THEFT, 7:15 pm. A student 
notified Campus Police that while she , 
was away from her study desk at Hunt 
Library, her brown leather coat was 
stolen. Her temporary ID card and drivers 
license were in the coat. A suspect was a 
woman of approximately thirty years of 
age with short brown hair and glasses. 
She was seen leaving the area just prior 
to the victim finding her coat missing but 
was not actually seen taking the coat.
11/15 THEFT, 7:42 pm. A student 
reported to Campus Police that she had 
left her backpack in the Hunt Library 
media classroom at 2 pm. When she went 
to retrieve it at 7:42 pm, it was missing. 
The bag was leather and was valued at 
$100. The contents included a credit card, 
drivers license, MAC card, a personal 
check, and $5 in cash.
11/16 OPEN LEWDNESS, 2:12 am. 
A security guard observed streakers run 
from the cut near Warner Hall toward 
and into Alpha Tau Omega house. 
Campus Police responded and one officer 
observed a man wearing a purple jacket 
and glasses pull his pants down and 
show his buttocks. He was later issued a 
CMU citation for open lewdness.
Compiled by 
RHONDA STRUMINGER
ampana leaves University
MPANA, from page 1
u can be happy with, and one 
at is also good for yourself and  
u family, Campana said. I 
1 miss the people here, but 
urphy] has my phone number, 
Ive told him that wherever I 
if he ever needs anything, to 
1 me. Im more than willing to 
consulted if I can be helpful.
It will be tough to leave some of 
the people here  I liked the 
people here, especially the stu
dents that I worked with. How
ever, [Dean of Student Affairs] 
Mike Murphy and I came to a 
mutual understanding that it was 
time for me to leave. I felt that 
this was a good choice for me and 
my family.
Obviously, [Murphy] told me 
what its all about, and Im in 
agreement with him, said Vice 
President for Enrollment William 
F. Elliott.
Elliott refused to comment 
further on Campanas decision to 
leave the University.
Murphy was unavailable for 
comment.
University
Calendar
&
University Calendar is a useful alternative to paid advertisements for 
Publicizing events open to the campus community. Vox Populi is a way 
to mouth off in a publication for free. As always, send Calendar or Vox 
PPuli submissions to: The Tartan, Attn. Calendar, Box 17, Carnegie 
Mellon U., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send campus mail to Calendar 
Editor, The Tartan, Skibo Info Desk. You can also drop subs via 
AppleShare in the drop folders on the Tartans server, Skibo zone. Please 
limit submissions to fifty words or less. Deadline is 5 pm the Thursday 
before the next issue. Space is limited and placement is not guaranteed.
WINTER VACATION
Come To ISRAEL
ON A NEW EXCITING VENTURE
FLY WITH
THEARN_f St sf_EI
3 WEEK PROGRAM 
Work-Culture Project 
FREE Room and Board  KOSHER MEALS 
Flights for DECEMBER 26 & DEC. 31 from N.Y. 
Airfare From $499 Round-Trip for Students 18-26
ISRAELSS FOR WURSaf.
Contact:
VOLUNTEERS FOR ISRAEL 
330 West 42nd Street 
Room 1318 
New York, NY 10036 
Tel.: (212) 643-4848

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Tartans: Veni, Vidi, Touchdown!
The Carnegie Mellon football 
season came to a close Saturday 
with a 17-7 loss to Lycoming 
College. The loss was the only 
stain on an otherwise perfect 
record; it is a disappointment, but 
its not the end of the world.
Think about it. The Tartaiis had 
an undefeated regular season  
an honor that only a few teams in 
the entire country, and only one 
team in Carnegie Mellon history, 
can claim. They won the inaugu
ral University Athletic Associa
tion championship hands down. 
They were, at times, absolutely 
devastating. Ask anyone from the
University of Chicago football 
team if you need proof.
It wasnt done on team strength 
alone, though; a few individuals 
also made key contributions. Most 
notable are senior running back 
Scott Barnyak, who shatteredjust 
about every CMU record in the 
books this year, and senior quar
terback Billy Snyder, who added 
his name to Division III history by 
completing a perfect 17-for-17 
passing day against Wooster.
The Tartans came up short in 
their playoff run, but we shouldnt 
forget the ten wins that started it 
all. Congratulations, men.
Dining Service forgets its name
Carnegie Mellon Dining Service 
made a number of changes over 
the summer  the Highlander 
Cafe, the Kiltie Food Court, the 
hours at MorePizza, and price 
increases.
Students are not satisfied with 
the service they are receiving from 
CMDS. In particular, the follow
ing are some of the problems we 
have noted.
First and foremost, the High
lander Cafe is wrought with inef
ficiency. No less than twice in the 
last week the Highlander has run 
out of one of its main entrees; on 
neither occasion did managers 
; bother to post the fact that their 
cupboards were bare.
Once students enter Highlander, 
they are committed to eating there; 
their meal is gone, and they have 
to eat what the Highlander pro
vides, good or bad. CMDS should 
see that theres enough food for 
everyone. Barring that, the least 
it should do is post the fact that 
its out of a given item.
Furthermore, the Highlander 
also seems to have a difficult time
keeping track of its glasses and 
plates. The salad bar is almost 
always out of plates, and there 
have been many occasions where 
people have had to wait upwards 
of 15 minutes to get glasses. Is it 
too much to ask to keep a good 
supply of plates and glasses avail
able?
Our next gripe is with 
MorePizza: Its hours are too short. 
Last year, when MorePizza was 
open until midnight, it was a great 
place for people to go and unwind 
after a few hours of studying; from 
11 to 12 the place was always 
busy. CMDS says that it is closing 
earlier because it cant find people 
to work the extra hours.
But Pizza Hut, the O, EatnPark, 
and Scotland Yard are all open 
until at least midnight. If they can 
find people to work, so can CMDS. 
Scheduling is a management 
problem. Deal with it.
All we are asking is a little 
thought from CMDS. Even if we 
are a captive audience, we are 
customersand we deserve good 
service and decent food.
Give some thought to teaching
Weve all heard the educational 
horror stories: Americas kids 
cannot read, write, solve math 
problems, or identify basic facts 
about our system of government.
Meanwhile, Americas problems
 homelessness and drug addic
tion, to name just two  are 
mounting. And our high school 
graduates are unable to keep pace 
with their peers around the world 
in simple algebra, much less come 
up with solutions older genera
tions are unable to solve.
Whats worse, our educational 
system is inequitable, with our 
worst schools sei'ving our poorest 
children. That kind of unfairness 
only serves to solidify class dis
tinctions and widen the chasm 
separating the privileged from the 
not-privileged in America.
The facts are clear: Americas 
public schools are a mess.
Its easy to identify at least one 
reason for the education problem. 
Instead of attracting our best and 
brightest college graduates to 
teaching careers, were attracting 
our worst and dimmest.
The average education major, 
with an SAT score of950, wouldnt 
stand a chance of getting into a 
school like Carnegie Mellonand 
this is the same person that were 
going to count on to teach basic 
science, math, reading, and writ
ing to our own children when we 
become parents.
As we Carnegie Mellon students 
look forward to our own future, 
pursuing a career in teaching 
seems particularly unattractive:
low pay, long hours, and no recog
nition. But a young, energetic 
program modelled after the Peace 
Corps hopes to change our ideas 
about teaching.
Teach For America hopes to re
cruit 1000 members of the class of 
91 from across the country to serve 
as teachers for two years in innercity and rural school systems.
By attracting college seniors who 
are getting the most job offers, 
Teach For America hopes to give 
the failing educational system a 
much-needed infusion of energy, 
subject-matter knowledge, and 
general problem-solving ability.
After a summer crash course on 
education, recruits will be placed 
directly into classrooms next fall. 
For their efforts they will receive 
the same starting salary as other 
teachers in their school districts
 an average of $25,000.
No, its not a lot of money. But it 
is a hell of a challenge and a hell of 
a responsibility  and only a twoyear commitment.
Give it a thought. Teach For 
America has targeted CMU as one 
of 171 schools nationwide that it 
thinks have graduating seniors 
good enough to meet its high 
standards. Applications, available 
from the Career Center, are due 
on January 4.
Senior Dan Davis, the 
organizations campus rep, has 
more information. He can be 
reached at x2116 or 422-2356.
Our society needs us today  
and our kids are going to need us 
tomorrow.
Bookstore cheats students of monei
Editor: ^ Oi
I recently purchased 
an HP calculator from 
CMU Bookstore for Letter to 
$75.1 was proud of my the Editor 
purchase for a while.
However, I went to the Book Center 
down at the University of Pittsburgh 
and I saw the same calculator for $56. 
Needless to say I was very upset. Well, 
no problem, right? Just get a refund on 
the HP and use $56 of the money to get
the calculator at Pitt. Well, its not that 
easy. When I went for the refund, I was 
told at the window that the store had 
(conveniently, might I add) just recently 
changed its policy on calculator refunds. 
I was, however, shown no such policy 
change. I feel as though the Bookstore 
has gotten the better of me. I was only 
allowed store credit which I accepted.
The Bookstore here is (as I was told) 
supposed to be a non-profit organization. 
Like my African-American ancestors
used to say, Theres something rotteni 
the cotton. 
I dont enjoy paying $21,000 a year I 
come here and get swindled out of wfy 
little money I have left. Maybe soi 
students can afford to pay the outraged 
overhead but as for me, I cannot. I 
disgusted at this blatant disregard fi 
students wallets.
Benjamin Tett 
Freshman, CIT
ROTC augments the campus community
Editor: OH!
I do solemnly swear sSiCT1"
that I will support and ---------------------
defend the Constitu- Letter to 
tion of the United the Editor 
States against all en
emies, foreign and domestic; that I will 
bear true faith and allegiance to the 
same; and that I will obey the orders of 
the President of the United States and 
the officers appointed over me, accord
ing to regulations and the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice, so help me God.
This is what every ROTC member must 
affirm upon entering ROTC, as well as 
anyone enlisting or entering any officer 
commissioning program of the armed 
forces. This is why I feel I must take issue 
with the letter written by Dr. Wolfenstein 
in last weeks Tartan [ROTC monitors
CARNEGIE MELLONin n
ROTC, Wolfenstein states, is to train 
officers who will obey the orders of their 
commanders and the President. Had 
Professor Wolfenstein done his home
work, he would have noted that the above 
affirmation is a precondition on joining 
the military. Its part of the job.
With that in mind, lets dispel any 
doubt; service in the armed forces is a job 
 a job which has direct bearing on the 
lives too closely, 11/12]. The goal of security of our nation. Like all jobs, it has
qualifications which ensure the job tv 
be done capably. Physical standards iVii 
be met, and yes, certain ideologies mfi 
not be embraced. Certainly, anyone \vl 
at heart believes communism is 'rig 
has a conflict of interest when his or fi 
duty is to protect the Constitution of!) 
United States. Its all a part of maintai 
ing a military which is strong and effe 
tive.
So, when Wolfenstein states, Just! 
the military does not want sexual n 
conformists, it clearly would not wa 
left-wing radicals or those who quest 
such military actions as the U.S. attai 
on Panama... he is partially corret 
However, when he says, A recent artic 
in Focus noted that ROTC meiriBej&fl 
not feel free to discuss the Persian'Gu 
crisis, he misleads us. While it is tn 
Please see ROTC, p
Americanism aggravates minority problem;
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
Alan Bourdius, The 
Tartans self-proclaimed editorial Ar
cher, has fired and 
missed again. In last 
weeks column [Judging by minority 
rather than individualism instigates 
discrimination, 11/12/90], he proposes 
a sure-fire way to eliminate discrimina
tion in this country: minority groups 
should be conceived purely in terms of a 
national, American identity. I would 
suggest that Mr. Bourdius solution rests
on a number of confusions and elisions 
that will only serve to perpetuate the 
state of affairs he argues against. His 
espousal of Americanist individualism 
implicitly requires that we ignore the 
objective economic, social, and historical 
determinations that elicit political 
struggles in the first place.
Mr. Bourdius notion of minority as
sumes group origins in either some illdefined sense of regional/cultural tradi
tion (Afro-Americans [sic], AsianAmericans), or in shared programmatic 
investments (feminist-Americans). At
the same time, he argues that identif 
ing people with minority groups . 
creases the level of discrimination." 1 
this formulation, minorities have t 
status outside of consciousness; theyai 
conceived purely in terms of a discrii 
nating stroke of cognitive will. HeHt 
the instant certain people stop sepafi 
ing us all into different... groups,'-^ 
crimination will disappear, and s(H 
minorities.
In a bizarre collusion of Emerscmi 
idealism and Orwellian logic, d: 
Please see MINORITY, p
Vegetarian ideology sprouts on Meatless Da$
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
The Sadhu Vaswani 
Mission, in Pune, In
dia, has initiated a 
worldwide campaign 
establishing Novem
ber 25 as a Meatless Day.
I was chosen by the Ramanashram, 
from Sao Paulo, Brazil, my native land, 
to help the propagation of the ideals of 
vegetarianism and compassion towards 
animals here in Pittsburgh.
I would like to ask everyone of the
Carnegie Mellon community to observe 
Novembei; 25 as a Meatless Day, making 
a pledge not to eat any flesh on that day. 
If you can, enjoy the opportunity to be
come a vegetarian for good.
Now I would like to share with you the 
wise wprds of Vaswani describing the 
true vegetarian. As you read, listen to 
your heart.
The true vegetarian is filled through 
and through with reverence for life. He 
reveres ljfe as a Gift of God which no man 
can bestow, therefore, may not destroy.
Such a one has the following markj 
1. His heart is a flowing river of c* 
passion and love. The basis of true co 
passion is a feeling of unity, of onenj 
with all creatures that have the brea 
of life. I and that tiny winged creai 
that hovers round yon lamp areJ 
Men and animals and birds, fisM 
fowl, moth and mosquitoes, all, aj 
one,in the One without whom ptfjj 
no other.
To the true vegetarian, therefore^ 
Please see VEGETARIANISM, P
Santos letter spewed forth hypocritical remarks
OS
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
In his letter to the 
editor [Racist, sexist 
comments add fuel to 
the fire, 11/12], Mr.
Santos states that as a 
writer, he observes closely. After 
reading the letter in its entirety, we 
suggest he strongly consider switching 
to another major.
First, we believe that all persons have 
the right to voice their views and opin
ions. However, with this right comes a 
certain responsibility. When discussing 
the ideas of others, people should be very
careful to neither misinterpret nor mis
use the statements of others. Mr. Santos 
made reference to our letter [Not all 
white heterosexual males embrace the 
same beliefs, 10/8] when he asked what 
crusade would we be leading against 
racial stereotypes when we ourselves 
are stereotyped as sexual hurricanes.
We mentioned nothing about the im
ages and perceptions concerning our 
sexual ability in our letter. When the 
letter is read in its entirety, the idea we 
presented dealt with sexist attitudes 
which m^ny people think we hold. Al
though Mr. Santos seems obsessed with
the so-called sort of gay comple>i 
himself makes several references tilpenis-length-is-a-measurement-i
masculinity concept.
At this point, we would care to 
issue with Mr. Santos perception of| 
Mellon College of Science. You see.'! 
Santos, this idea of diversity isj? 
give and take. It is hypocritical to ctv 
that you are stereotyped while you m 
broad, sweeping generalizations ^ 
MCS. You may take offense aW 
Callihans views but you really slg 
not stoop to the level of using $0 
Please see REMARKS, I

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 19907
Fresh homemade dough spun right before your eyes..,
16 CHEESE PIZZA
$2.99
Offer good Sunday thru Thursday until December 15,1990.
Original Hotdog Shop 
3901 Forbes Ave. Oakland
Phone 621-0453 Offer not good for delivery
Now available Friday and Saturday  
Two 16 Pizzas only $8.88
THE TARTN
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief..................Howdy Pierce
Managing Editor...........Michael T. Rose
Business Manager..............Frank DiVfto
News Editor.................Nicole Brockmann
Forum Editor........................Susan Abrams
Sports Editor...................Katie Culbertson
Features Editor.......................Allison Durazzi
Diversions Editor................Stephen Glicker
Calendar Editor...........Daniel de Grandpre
Magazine Editor................Jennifer Kerstein
Dossier Literary Editor............Jack Sllbert
Dossier Design Editor............Chris Sields
Art Editor.......................William C. Sabram
Photo Editor.........................Tad Dockstader
Photo Staff Manager.....Ignatius Sasmita
Darkroom Manager............D.A. Henderson
Production Manager............Beth A. Moses
Copy Manager................................Alim Ray
Asst. Managing Editor ...Nathan Fullerton 
Asst. Business Mgr. . Michael J. Ewedosh 
Asst. News Editors ....Rhonda Struminger 
David B. Ladek 
Asst. Forum Ed. ...Samantha A. Kossman
Asst. Sports Editor............Jason McDonald
Asst. Features Editors...........Trupti Patel
Dexter T. Kobayashi
Asst. Diversions Eds..........Dawn Brosonski
Terr! Kasch
Asst. Magazine Editor.............Alison Green
Asst. Art Editor.......................Kristina Boinis
Contributing Editors 
Kevin Barney, William Burky, Grant 
Carmichael, James B. Endres (Tokyo), 
Dustin Frazier, Farron W. Levy (London), 
Jonathan Levy, Eric McAnallen, Thomas 
Nichols, Natalie Peterson, Don Pickett
Senior Staff 
Staffwriters: Dan Holland, Waseem Hussain, 
Javier Grillo-Marxuach, Randy Udavcak. 
Darkroom: Jason Digman.
Staffwriters 
Laura Adams, Matt Adler, Suzanne Bartlett, 
Russ Bedeil, T.S. Blass, Mami Borek, Allan 
Bourdius, Alison Carter, Caleb Cohen, 
Andrew Cosentino, Jill Denesvich, Megan 
Dietz, Dan Erhard, Dan Ferrell, Natalie 
Gesmond, Francis M. Goldsberry, Judy 
Grossman, Rachel Haas, Sarah Hamilton, 
Colleen Kane, Georgina Koon, Richard 
Kwiatkowski, Dave Martin, Daniel Martinez, 
Brendan McFeely, Chin Oh, Rich Robinson, 
Mark Roces, Doug Scott, David Schwartz, 
Mike Shapiro, Lui Sieh, Alan Sloan, Jason 
Lee Smith, Kelly Sterling, Tina Urso, A. 
Franklin Wheeler, Laurie Wilkison, Jeffrey 
Woodford, Robert Wyner
Art
Sunita Cherian, Brandon Chin, Eric Davis, 
Ken Flickstein, Damien Miller, Jen Nelson, 
Chin Oh, Jeff Oplinger, Dave Pagani, Paulette 
Pan, Naomi Pearson, Jason Peltz, Kate 
Rollenhagen, Cesar Sanchez
Comics
GregBaimal, Andi Briggs, FlintCrumpacher, 
Eric Davis, Danny Fahs, Chris Fria, Dan 
Gallagher, Dave Kapla, Andre Khromov, 
Doug Lamperski, John Un, Neil McCarthy, 
Craig Mrusek, Paul Reed, RJ. Runas, 
ChariesSabatos,MikeShapiro,JackSilbert, 
Clifford Snider, Ray Strobel, K. Michael 
Thomas, Nick Wardigo
Photography/Darkroom 
Rick Antolic, David Docktor, Dan Frey, 
Michael Fuson, Vivek Gupta, Asif Ikram, 
Jason Irwin, Hillary Kahn, Stephen Kang, 
Augustine Kuo, Doug Luce, Sam 
Mastromatteo, Jessica Miller, Thomas 
Mullaney, Guy Paquette, Pauietta Pan, 
Alex Patho Jr., Steve Peters, Kishor Rao, 
Stanley Wong, Buddy Wells, Brian Woods, 
Gwokang Yang
Production/Layout 
Rachel Bourn, Anne Campbell, Jennifer 
Forbes, Heather Knopf, Manish Modh, 
Pankaj S. Mody, Kishor K. Rao, Derek 
Rubinoff, Jen Sherer
Copy
Heather Broud, Marybeth A. Griffin, Heidi 
Hoover, Sean Kracklauer, Lenna Kydes, 
Daniel Martinez, Erika Olson, Christine 
Rahiml-Assa, Christian R. Williams
Business 
James Kim, Mary Kaye Rodgers
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the University community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing,Inc. Subscriptions are availableforthesemesteroracademic year. The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are (he official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns are the opinions of individual authors. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily members of the University community. A letter intended for publication mustbe signed and include the writers address and phone numberforverification. Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter or column. Copyright 1990 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegie MellonUniversity/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890Funded in part by the Activities Fee.All rights reserved.Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Vulgarity and Santos offended student
Editor:
'\ wish to 
jarify the 
point I at
tempted to 
across to
Letter to 
the Editor
readers of my letter to the edi
tor [Graffiti on windows needs 
warning label, 10/29]. In this 
letter, I proposed a question 
concerning the use of profane 
language in a message painted 
boldly on the window of the 
CMU Womens Center. I sim
ply wanted to express the fact 
'that at least one person on this 
campus is offended by such a 
display of vulgarity.
I dont believe the phrases 
painted on the window are in 
any way an asset to CMU. The 
.University is constantly work
ing to maintain and improve 
the beauty of the campus. For 
example, one cannot help but 
notice the countless Physical 
Plant personnel collecting the 
leaves this fall. I feel that lewd 
compositions such as those 
which were on the Womens 
Center mar this beauty.
My opinion, however, is mine 
and mine alone. Steven Santos, 
author of Racist, sexist com
ments add fuel to the fire in the 
November 12 issue of The Tar
tan, seems to feel differently. 
Mr. Santos appears to believe 
that my opinion is shared by 
the entire Mellon College of 
Science. In his letter, Mr. Santos 
claims to observe closely. He 
obviously didnt observe the 
meaning of one opinion very 
closely at all. Mr. Santos also 
cites from two other letters. No 
one can stereotype the beliefs of 
an entire college on the basis of 
a few opinions.
Mr. Santos also took the lib
erty of declaring that it scares 
[me] that these words come from 
women. The fact that the pro
fane messages were painted on 
the Womens Center had noth
ing to do with the issue. The 
messages could have been 
painted on the front of Donner 
Hall, and I still wouldhave made 
the same remarks. It does scare 
me, however, that people abuse 
the right to freedom of speech 
as they do. And it was this fear 
that caused me to write my let
ter in the first place.
Tony DeRoss 
Freshman, MCS
Santos hurled unfounded insults
Editor:
For the past 
several weeks, 
I have loosely 
followed the 
heated debates
Letter to 
the Editor
!on minority and homosexual is
sues and found myself impressed 
.with the form, if not the content, 
of the majority of the letters. 
Though viewpoints were ex
pressed that I strongly disagreed 
With, they were usually reason
able, thought out, and well writ
ten. This was not the case, how
ever, with a letter in the Novem
ber 12 issue. In reading Racist, 
sexist comments add fuel to the 
fire by Steven Santos, I found 
myself wondering which was 
worse: that a college-level student 
could have been responsible for 
such a biased, paranoid, and, 
frankly, poorly written letter, or 
that a responsible newspaper 
would justify such a letter by 
printing it.
Mr. Santos attempts to condemn 
attitudes of ignorance and preju
dice. Yet throughout his letter, he 
displays these exact same atti
tudes. He begins by accusing the 
duthor of an earlier letter [Michael 
Callihan of Gay issues received 
too much coverage, 10/29] of hav
ing all the symptoms of a classic 
homophobic. What exactly are
these symptoms? What exactly is 
a classic homophobic? If Steven 
perceives an unjust or dangerous 
attitude, perhaps he should offer 
solutions to that attitude instead 
of just hurling unfounded insults 
and moving on to another topic, 
as he did in his letter.
He then accuses a vague group 
consisting of the most educated 
people of stereotyping Hispanics 
and righteously accuses them of 
being stunned that some of 
[them] know English! Who ex
actly is he accusing? Are they 
the same people who belong to 
such a diverse community known 
for its gay-bashing? Or are they 
the white males with the gay 
complex? Perhaps they are in 
league with the MCS students 
who are more concerned with 
facts and figures rather than get
ting an education in the real 
world. Of course, this could all be 
a plot of the white campus fra
ternity majority. For someone so 
paranoid about unjust stereotyp
ing, he certainly proves he is as 
capable of ignorant pigeonholing 
as those he accuses.
Steven, since your own source 
of advice is somewhat inane 
(Some advice: Grow the fuck up 
and you wont look as stupid as 
you do.), perhaps you should lis
ten to someone else. Until you can
deal with your own prejudice and 
ignorance, you will be ineffective 
in trying to remedy these short
comings in others.
For The Tartan, I also have 
some advice. There are better 
ways to focus attention on issues 
that need it rather than publish
ing ill-informed letters that pro
voke angry, rather than thought
ful, reaction. If no letters are fit to 
print, skip them and expand the 
Forum section. Hell, even some of 
the comic strips do a better job at 
addressing problems than 
Stevens letter did.
Sean OMullan 
Freshman, CIT
Editors note: Although
OMullan is welcome to disagree, 
it is our belief that the Forum 
section should present as wide a 
variety of opinions as possible. To 
that end, we attempt to publish all 
letters to the editor we receive.
antos misinterpreted students points throughout his letter
Letter to 
the Editor
iditor:
1 am writing to re
pond to comments 
mde in the November
2 issue of the The Taran in a letter by Steven 
aritos [Racist, sexist comments add fuel
the fire].
To begin, I would like to restate my claim 
lat I am not homophobic as Mr. Santos 
as insinuated. I clearly explained in my 
ist letter why I reject homosexuality and 
that explanation were closely observed, 
ae .would see that it has nothing to do 
ith fear.
I must clarify a misconce|ption in refer
ence to N other minorities in my original 
letter. The issue is not a matter of anyone 
except the editors of The Tartan granting 
press to minorities. That is absurd. The 
whole point was that not so much floor 
time has been given to any other minority 
on campus so far this year. Granted, I have 
not been a Tartan reader for very long, so 
that observation may have been some
what unfair to The Tartan.
Mr. Santos questioned in his letter the 
significance of the GSIA ranking with respect to the student body..urely he does
not believe a potential employer in business will look not at the ranking of your 
graduate school relative to the rest of 
academia, but whether or not your schools 
homosexual community had its point of 
view heard. Which of us is truly living in 
the real world?
Furthermore, it is not a matter of me 
being afraid to hear their opinions; it is a 
matter of being tired of hearing them. 
Indulgence in anything tends to be detri
mental, including press coverage of a single 
topic. So, you see, it is not a matter of the 
gay community being heard. As a member 
of the larger community here, they have 
that right. But why should they receive
more attention than any other group? Mr. 
Santos himself stated it rather well: Sure, 
of course, you all have the right to disagree 
with the gay community ... I personally 
dont care what they do. Thats exactly 
how I feel, I just simply dont appreciate 
being overwhelmed with their opinions.
To conclude, I hope I have clarified my 
point of view here. As for Mr. Santos, I am 
sorry he had to resort to incoherent argu
ments, degrading insults, and four-letter 
words to get his point across.
Michael T. Callihan 
Freshman, MCS
SUMMER SPECIAL
RENT NOW 
WHAT A WISE MOVE!
Eff. & 1-Bedroom Apts. 
Furnished, Air Conditioned 
fWriW rW galj 
Eee RWtetWtB swSeLFBF 
IOSrWBF rW jUM V BnteeB 
5 Minute Walk to Skibo Hall
Off-Street Parking Available
PLEASE CALL PRUDENTIAL REALTY COMPANY
261-6500
LIVE IN JAPAN
Individuals with professional experience in business, 
education, engineering, languages or related fields with a 
university degree(s) interested in teaching English in Japan 
for one year to employees of major corporations and 
governmental agencies should send a comprehensive 
in-depth resume to :
IES
Shin-Taiso Building, 10-7 Dogenzaka 2-chome 
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150 JAPAN 
Tel: (03) 463-5396, FAX: (03) 463-7089

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990
mux ICOUIPNT SWAUOW ANfffflERTHINi"Minority problems persist with Americanism
MINORITY, from page 6
ences in race, class, and gender 
simply vanish as soon as we 
imagine (or dream) they dont 
exist. Apparently, a disbelief in 
gravity really is proof against 
drowning.
In fact, to speak of minority 
groups is to recognize the his
torical emergence of real, concrete 
differences in access to power, 
influence, and avenues of com
munal and self-determination 
within a dominant social forma
tion. Minorities are not produced 
in the crucible of consciousness, 
but rather are effects of and re
sponses to the social, political, 
and economic forces operative 
within and across boundaries of 
nationality. Such forces routinely 
function in the interests of some, 
and at the expense and exclusion 
of others; they dont go away if 
you choose not to believe in them.
What Mr. Bourdius calls dis
crimination characterizes one 
(and only one!) of the effects of the 
dominant mode of social life on 
relations among certain groups. 
As such, discrimination often 
follows from structural determi
nations which are not necessarily 
reducible to personal feelings of 
animosity or disinterest, and 
therefore cannot be ameliorated 
solely through impassioned ap
peals to individual civic hygiene.
How then are we to understand
the avowal of an American na
tional identity as a pretext for 
eliminating discrimination? We 
can begin by recognizing that 
when Mr. Bourdius asserts, I am 
a native American, first and fore
most, he echoes the point of view 
most natural to the position of 
privilege in this countrywhite, 
male, middle-class, young, and 
educated. It is precisely his reluc
tance to conceive of the position of
since the mid-70s; that since the 
early 70s, average earnings for 
young African-American men fell 
by 50 percent; and that black 
families suffer inordinately from 
recent declines in affordable 
housing and health care, federal 
cuts in numerous social programs, 
disintegrating urban and subur
ban infrastructures, a rising con
sumer price index, under-staffed 
and under-equipped public
compassing rubric of a seani 
less (masculinist) nationalism-i 
all we recognize of each other i 
our Americanism [sic] then ^ 
anybody could say of each othe 
is, Hes an American... (my Gni 
phasis). This prescription utter] 
levels all existing material dj 
ferences, thereby excludin
subjectivities crucial to th 
struggles for political power an 
social justice. In a self-complacen
the other (including the real schools, and the lack of affordable fantasy of white male privileg,
Native Americans) that blinds 
him to the obvious contradictions 
a national identity poses for many 
people living in the United States.
For African-Americans, to 
speak of America is to talk of a 
society historically predicated on 
slavery, systematic exploitation, 
and the degradation of black dig
nity and intelligence. It is to re
alize that as we approach the end 
of the 20th century, white 
households now total a net wealth 
over ten times that of blacks; that 
close to 65 percent of all single 
women of colour, and one out of 
two black children, live at or be
low the line of poverty; that capi
tal flight has effected unemploy
ment for black men as high as 40 
percent in some urban areas, and 
that a meager 35 percent of black 
males aged 18-29 enjoy full-time, 
year-round employment; that 
black enrollment in colleges and 
universities has declined steadily
daycare.
To speak of America is to rec
ognize a dominant social forma
tion that always has and still con
tinues to function in the interests 
of a white, male ruling class  
whose Commander-in-Chief 
recirculates the reactionary, rac
ist myth of the black rapist in 
order to achieve a cheap political 
advantage; a ruling elite currently 
debating whether or not AfricanAmerican women and men should 
risk getting blown to pieces in a 
war that promises to preserve a 
way of life inextricably linked 
with black poverty, despair, eco
nomic disempowerment, and so
cial disenfranchisment.
For African-Americans to con
ceive of themselves as black and 
as American is to confront a stag
gering contradictionone which 
Mr. Bourdius eliminates by 
subsuming the concrete determi
nations of race under the all-en
real existing disparities and con 
tradictions  indeed, history 
self magically melt away befor 
the righteous flame of a unifiei 
purified national essence 
Amerika uber alles. 
Nationality does not subsunt 
the complex field of socio-hij 
torical differences, but rathe 
exists within it; nationality nami 
only one dimension of subjectivit 
and defines only one set of sociL 
relations. To lose sight of th 
crucial fact is to risk immersij] 
ones identity into nationality 
the extent that it becomes virti 
ally impossible to think relation! 
and accountablities to other hu 
man beings in any other terms. I 
its more pronounced form, thi 
propensity has a name  jg 
called fascism.
Patryk Silver 
Graduate Student, Literarj 
and Cultural Theory
Meatless Day sprouts vegetarian idealism
VEGETARIANISM, from page 6
life unit is as dear and precious as his 
own life. To him every dumb creature of 
God is his own self wearing another 
body. And so the true vegetarian will be 
no party to any movement for humane 
slaughter. On his banner are inscribed 
the words in letters of fire: Stop all 
slaughter!
2. The true vegetarian is a man of self 
discipline. So many there be who do not 
eat flesh but, alas! They easily succumb 
to the flesh. They cannot resist the temp
tations of the flesh. They are soft: they 
have not put out the fire of passion. The 
true vegetarian is unswayed by passion,
unruffled by anger, unmoved by greed or 
gold.
3. The true vegetarian is a man of 
humility. Deep in his heart he knows 
that he is not free from the sin of killing. 
For to breathe is to kill the germs that 
are in the air around us. To talk is to kill; 
to walk is to kill. Indeed, to live is to kill.
4. Living in such a world, the true 
vegetarian becomes a worshipper, a man 
of prayer. He sees cruelty all around him. 
How many hearts can he touch? How 
many lives can he save? And so he turns 
to Him who is the One Saviour of all. The 
true vegetarian prays alike for the killer 
and the killed; and he prays that he may
become an instrument of Gods love in 
this world of agony and pain.
5. The true vegetarian is a man of 
indomitable faith. He believes profoundly 
that life is entirely a gift of God. In 
periods of crisis, in times of famine and 
flood, his mind wavers not! He prefers 
starvation to eating fish or flesh. On his 
sick-bed he is not lured into eatingimpure 
food.
So remember: November 25 is Meat
less Day  a new beginning.
Artur Matuck
Studio for Creative Inquiry
Marking  University Center  Greeks  Student lnvoivment  Student Senate  Athletic facilities 
Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health  Banking  Politics  Funding  Football Field 
Student Affairs  Constitution  Construction  Overcrowding  Contras  Housing  Sororities 
Charities  Gypinasium  Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Exercise  Congress  Midd 
Sast  Weather  Advising  Sex  Geeks  Alcohol  Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Wooi 
Manure  Advertising  Disco  Crime  All-Nighters  Grant's Sex Li 
Human Relations  SEI  Presidential Search  WRCT  DECStatioi
 Mail\llen  The Mu]
Ishtar II 
Computers 
Construction 
Postages *Vie 
Gay Rights
\ctivities Boa^^^ymnasium  Housing  Sonorities'
Recycling  Congress  Club Sports  Middle East  Weather  Advising 
lorruption  Violence  Alcohol  Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy 
Student Affairs  Construction  Overcrowding  Housing  Racial Issues 
Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Congress  Middle East  Gay Rights  Weather  Adv 
Sex  Geeks  Alcohol  Drugs  Blacks  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Television  Construct 
Track Field  Overcrowding  Contras  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Gymnasium  Dinii
Letters to the Editor  Deadline Friday 5 pm 
Skibo 50
^ing  Student Affai 
Environment 
Geeks  Alcoh 
iSteves selfishness 
^Constitution 
Iervice"w'Environment 
Crime  Sex  Geeks 
Woody Allen  Fundii 
Sororities  Charities
More Hum Copies
Floppy Disks 
FAX Service 
Resumes
Collating & Binding
Laser Typesetting 
Instant Passport Photos 
Pick-Up & Delivery 
Office Supplies
do yU pdR_f u
3710 Forbes 
Ave.(next to 
McDonalds) 
* 3945 Forbes 
Ave.kinko's
the copy center
The latest looks for him and her. Soft and shaped. Updated. Now. Cuts that move with body and volume. Sophisticated style from our experts.
EXPECTATIONS
GET WHAT YOU EXPECT
237 Atwood St. 687-3500 
Across the street from the Oakland Post Office
Mon-Fri 10-7 
Sat 9-6
I On a Precision Haircutaompiete with wash & styte)
I Expires 11/30/90
_ _MUSJ_HAVE COUPON^ J
Free Hair Consultation 
1 Also Available:
 Perms  Frosting
I  Conditioning  Coloring
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
American Management Systems, Inc. 
seeks LIBERAL ARTS majors for careers in 
Information Systems Consulting as a 
Business Systems Analyst.
Qualifications:
 Superior analytical, communication and interpersonal skills' Initiative, self-motivation, good judgement and commitment to teamwork
 Exceptional academic performance in undergraduate studies
AMS will be interviewing on campus for 
Business Systems Analysts on 
February 6, 1991
Interested students should submit their resumes to the career center by December 10,1990, or mail to: Eric S. Schlesinger, AMS, 1777 North Kent Street, Arlington, VA 22209
AMS is one of the nation s leading firms in applying information systems 
technology to solve complex management problems of large organizations.
Washington, D.C. New York Chicago Denver Houston 
Los Angeles San Francisco Sarasotaams
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 19909
apital punishment now kills aesthetically I message to Tarsress
Michael J. Ewedosh
Pennsylvanias 117 death row 
Inmates may soon find they no 
|onger have to worry about the 
jlectric chair. The PA legislature 
sed a bill Wednesday that, 
mid it become law, would man
date execution by lethal injection.
The bills sponsor, Sen. Stewart 
Greenleaf (R-Montgomery 
County), told The Pittsburgh Press 
important for technical ad
vances to be included in societys
iethod of capital punishment. 
After all, he quips, we dont stone 
e to death anymore.
Maybe we should stone people 
death.
Imagine a crowd of people gath
ering downtown in Market Square 
carry out a death sentence. 
Proponents of capital punishment 
[out capital punishment as a de^errentfor violent crime: certainly 
Stoning a person to death in 
Vlarket Square is a better deter
rent than any execution at a state 
prison.
We dont stone people today 
jecause there would be a public
outcry. Americans have demon
strated time and time again that 
death is a fact of life that they 
choose to either sensationalize 
as in the case of Hollywood  or 
view clinically. Television news 
programs that have shown people 
actually dying have come under 
fire from both the community and 
their professional colleagues.
Stoning people in Market 
Square would cause public outcry 
because people wouldnt want to 
see it. It would force the populace 
to come to grips with the fact that
 through their inaction  they 
are condoning state-sponsored 
murder and veiling it as justice.
Society has gone through great 
pains to uphold the value of hu
man life. The law prohibits not 
only cold-blooded killing, but also 
mercy killings  ending the life 
of a loved one because the killer 
believes that person is better off 
dead than alive in his or her cur
rent condition.
Pennsylvanias move from the 
electric chair to the needle is just 
another move in the attempt to 
make capital punishment more 
aesthetically acceptable.
Historically, execution was a 
public affair. Stonings and hang
ings were immediate responses 
to crimes committed in the com
"After all... we dont stone people to 
death anymore.
munity. Execution was clearly a 
public decision.
Today, government takes care 
of all the dirty work. Execution 
takes place deep inside the heart 
of a prison, and the average per
son only knows it happened be
cause they saw a thirty-second 
blurb on the evening news.
Its neat and its clean. People 
know a convicted murderer was 
killed in the electric chair, or by 
lethal injection. There is no sense 
that a man or woman was killed.
Government officials are able 
to appease people who are right
fully angered by unjust killings 
when they pledge to ask for the 
death penalty. Justice will be 
served, they say.
Is killing again a response that 
serves justice to murder? To whom 
is justice served? The original 
victim is still dead.
There is no conclusive evidence 
that capital punishment does 
anything positive except appease 
angry mobs. If someone has found 
proof that it deters others from 
committing violent crimes, he or
she is keeping it a secret.
On the negative side, capital 
punishment distracts people from 
the real issue: the lack of a true 
correctional system. We have no 
way of making people who commit 
violent crimes against others 
understand why what they did 
was unacceptable. Incarceration 
instead is sort of paying a price 
for actions in the past. No number 
of years spent in prison can re
claim a life that has been wasted. 
Neither can another death.
I dont have an answer for the 
woes of a criminal justice system 
that relies on punishment and 
deterrence to stop crime. One 
thing Im sure of is that its not 
working. The answer society 
needs is a system that reforms 
criminals rather than simply 
making them do their time or 
become examples for other wouldbe killers. What frightens me is 
that nobody seems to be looking 
for that answer.
Michael J. Ewedosh is a junior 
IM major.
Those who were hurt by hypocritical words deserve an apology
REMARKS, from page 6
youre a science/engineering 
major so you dont know any
thing but numbers argument. 
Are we to understand that sim
ply because we are taught to 
solve problems in a systematic 
manner, we are socially inept in 
comparison to someone as wellinformed as yourself? Did you 
stop to think how gay and His
panic people in MCS might view 
your attitude toward their ed
ge?
Finally,- we feel strongly 
compelled to deal with Mr. 
Santos blatant, outright big
oted generalization of all the 
fraternities. We wish to en
lighten Mr. Santos. How can 
the Greek system, which is only 
33 percent of the CMU campus 
(including women), maintain its 
standard as the white campus 
fraternity majority?
Were you thinking of only the 
Caucasian members of these 
fraternities? Obviously, the mi
norities who are members of
the Greek system could not 
possibly maintain any racist or 
sexist views. We truly think that 
you owe all the members of all 
fraternities a sincere apology.
Being a freshman does not 
excuse your biased, pig-headed, 
downright discriminatory com
ments directed to those who 
simply disagree with you. We 
suggest thatyow are the one who 
should grow up.
This isnt high school; its col
lege. When your reasoning, 
writing, and arguing abilities 
are on par with the rest of the 
campus community, then 
maybe, just maybe, someone 
will listen seriously to what you 
have to say. Of course, when 
this event occurs, we doubt that 
you will hold any of these atti
tudes.
Christian M. Restifo 
Sophomore, Chem E
Henry J. McGrath III 
Sophomore, Mech E
ROTC contributes to CMU campus community
ROTC, from page 6
that ROTC members are told not to express 
their opinions as members of ROTC (that is, 
as representing the views of the organization 
of which they are a member), they are per
fectly free to express their views as indi
viduals.
The gist of Dr. Wolfensteins entire letter is 
, that ROTC espouses conformity. Its purpose 
is to program robots which will obey orders 
mindlessly. Certainly, willingness to obey 
orders is a part of the job. It is a necessity. It 
does not, however, mean that members of 
ROTC are conformists or lack individualism. 
Contrary to Dr. Wolfensteins statement, the 
goal of ROTC is to train leaders of men and 
women, to prepare students to be effective 
officers in their respective services.
The military does not need officers with 
remote controls as brains. It needs bright, 
capable men and women; motivated people 
who can get the job done.
Dr. Wolfensteins call to move ROTC off 
campus is not based on any lack of merit by 
ROTC or its members. He is questioning the 
entire hierarchical, disciplined structure of 
the military, characteristics which are basic
CARNEGIE MELLONni n
organizational necessities for getting its jobs 
done quickly and effectively.
Dr. Wolfenstein claims that the goals of 
ROTC are in conflict with the fundamental 
role of the University as providing opportu
nity for learning and inquiry in a free and 
open environment. He fails to note that a 
basic cornerstone of ROTC programs is their 
ability to provide officer training in environ
ments of great academic and social diversity; 
as opposed to, for instance, West Point or the 
U.S. Naval Academy.
Granted, the military is nbt without flaw. A 
real examination of a man br womans sexual 
orientations effect on performance or quality 
of the work environment is a serious issue.
And certainly other issues must be examined 
as well. But if changes must be made, they 
must be made from the top. Removing ROTC 
from campus does hurt the Pentagon, but it 
hurts students of ROTC and the campus 
community in general even more.
If people like Dr. Wolfenstein would look 
past the haircuts and uniforms and drill, they 
might realize that ROTC members arent 
robots or conformists any more than anyone 
else at Carnegie Mellon. They can think for 
themselves at least as well as the student 
body (and faculty) in general.
ROTC members are active, contributing 
members of the campus community. They are 
students who are columnists, Mr. Fraterni
ties, cheerleaders, varsity athletes, student 
senators, tour guides, resident assistants, 
and orientation counselors. And they are stu
dents who have made serious commitments 
to the service of our nation. They are students 
who, without doubt, belong here at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Jonathan Burroughs
Sophomore, Comp E and Cognitive Sci_fE_Dp oEo_f
18,500 to chuosc from - all subjects Order Catalog Today with Visa/MC or CODmsmmm
800-351-0222
In Calif. (213) 477-8226 Or. rush S2.00 to: Research Assistance 11322 Idaho Ave. 206-SN Los Angeles, CA 90025 -Custon research available- all levels
Unibed Wy
It brings out the best in all of us.
Win 
Everytime
i WithmVeryfine
Look for specially marked cans at^amott Vending 
locations around campus and you could win:
 Ski Vacations
 Learn-to-Ski Packages
 LiSt Tickets
 Rossignol Skis
 Sports Bottles/undayriver
November 23 thru December 19
yj^l^y^CHASE NECESSARY. For fu rules in the VeryfineCanGame and a free c 
oneri
WWUCI1I3. uaiwnichever occurs first
to win, send
$tWh fcBStreem kriPBF DrwV
Come to the TARTAN LOUNGE on 
December 3rd at 7:00 pm and get...
FREE 
PIZZA!!
COWABUNGA, DUDE ! BUT WHY!?!
This is everyones chance to meet their 
Student Senators. 
WILD ! AND GET FREE PIZZA! 
Just show up !

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990
Our world lives in both togetherness and separation
The Alternative
Lu Sieh
A paradox is beginning to take 
shape in the world as the 
tumultous year 1990 draws to 
an end  two conflicting move
ments are shaping our world. 
On one hand there is a move
ment toward unity; at the same 
time, there is less unity.
The formation of the Euro
pean Economic Community, the 
reunification of Germany, and 
the soon-to-be-realization of the 
Chunnel (a tunnel joining 
France and Great Britain at 
the English Channel) are real 
examples of people and nations 
joining together.
However, the opposite and 
malevolent force of nationalism 
is raising its head and chal
lenging the forces of interna
tionalism in several recent up
risings. One is in India where 
Hindus and the Muslims have 
clashed over a holy shrine in 
Ayodhya. Another is the ongo
ing struggle of Arabs and Pal
estinians against Israel. Still 
another is that of the ethnic 
strife between the Hungarians 
and the Romanians. And then 
there is the recent declaration 
of Kazakh-stan to be a sover
eign state within the Soviet 
Union whose name itself is be
coming a misnomer.
These revolts are merely the
beginnings of what appears to 
be result of the destabilization 
of the bi-polar world. Earlier, 
nations and nationalism were 
controlled by either America 
and its various allies or the 
USSR with its client states. Now 
that the Cold War is over, re
sulting in the disintegration of 
the Soviet bloc, the dam that 
held these latent nationalistic 
movements in check broke to 
release all the pent-up emo
tions. It seems that people dont 
care about their neighborsor 
at least the pretense that they 
cared is no longer there.
We will most likely look for
ward to the new decade and the 
new century as a return to the 
days of multipolarity. We will 
be living in a world in which 
various ethnic, nationalistic 
forces will surge in strength to 
establish a niche for themselves 
in the new world created by the 
end of the Cold War.
Which do you think is better
 the threat of nuclear war 
which kept the peace or a world 
dominated by many wars? This 
is the problem faced by policy 
makers today , and it is not easy 
to solve. No solution appears on 
the horizon yet, but perhaps 
the Hussein test will help lay 
the foundations for a new be
ginning. In the meantime, 
however, many people will 
probably yearn for the halcyon 
days of the Cold War with its 
uneasy peace.
Lui Sieh is a senior applied 
history major.
Thanksgiving Turkeys gobble up no praise
I was really tempted to take the 
easy way out this week. After all, 
its three days before Thanksgiv
ing and all I would have had to do 
is write a column listing'all the 
things I have to be thankful for.
I could have listed my family 
and my dog and all those good 
Norman Rockwell things and sent 
everybody off to their Thanks
giving dinners warm and fuzzy 
inside.
But thats no fun. Everybody is 
nice and friendly this time of year, 
especially those people who think 
Christmas runs from Halloween 
to Valentines Day.
It seemed like it would be more 
fun to try to ruin some Thanks
giving dinners. It's not that Im a 
coldhearted grinch who gets his 
jollies out of ruining holidays. 
Most of the country deserves to 
take a day or two off, stuff their 
faces, and enjoy the football 
games.
But there are those few folks 
out there who, because of their 
own malice or stupidity, deserve 
to be publicly humiliated before
When you don't know 
where to turn...
HELP** LINE255-1155
A service of the United Way 
of Allegheny County
Jonathan Levy
they sit down to their turkey din
ners. I would be honored to be the 
one to serve up their collective 
indigestion.
The following is my 1990 
Thanksgiving Turkeys list:
Both sides in the state of Ari
zona vs. NFL dispute. For those 
who have not heard, two weeks 
ago the voters in Arizona voted 
down two referenda which would 
have made Martin Luther King 
J r.s birthday a holiday in Arizona 
as it is in virtually every other 
state. In response, the NFL is 
probably going to carry through 
on its threat to move the 1993 
Superbowl, which was to have 
been played in Phoenix.
It is clear why Arizona should 
be cursed with cold turkey this 
year, but the NFL should also be
limited to eatingits own pigskins. 
Right or wrong, the voters of Ari
zona have the right to decide who 
or what they want to honor with 
state holidays without interfer
ence from the NFL or anybody 
else.
Also, the NFLjust plain screwed 
up. The referenda were appar
ently well on their way to passing 
before the NFL intervened. Po
litical analysts theorize that they 
failed because of a backlash 
against the NFL interference.
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
gets listed for two separate of
fenses. First, the staff gets a 
pumpkin pie in the face for run
ning a correction a week ago 
Saturday and then having to 
correct the correction two days 
later.
Second, the papers crossword 
puzzle uses the same clues over 
and over, making the puzzles 
nearly trivial after a few weeks.
Next is another case of there 
being two sides to every issue and 
both of them wrong. CNN should 
go hungry for broadcasting the
Noriega tapes for the sole pur. 
poses of jacking up its ratings and 
provoking a fight. Similarly, the 
Florida judge who ordered the 
network not to broadcast the taj 
should have to engrave the First 
Amendment on a sweet potato 
before being allowed to come to 
the table. Freedom of the press is 
not restricted to the honorable.
Finally, almost 850 residents 
of Fairfield, California should be 
required to read that sweet potato. According to a recent postingonthe org.supa bulletin board,
a high school class in that city did 
a door-to-door survey to get opin. 
ions on what it said was a possible 
Constitutional amendment. Only 
a third of the people surveyed 
supported the idea and only eight 
percent realized that the proposal 
was a verbatim copy of the First 
Amendment.
Jonathan Levy is a second year 
S UP A masters student and a 19% 
biology department alumnus. He 
wishes almost everybody a happy 
Thanksgiving.'
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling and 
Student Development 
Center 
268-2922
CONTACT Pittsburgh 
782-4023
Drug Connection 
854-0700
Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30 am - 
5 pm. For after hours emergencies when 
the office is closed, call the center.
An answering service operator will reach a 
counselor on call.
24-hour telephone counseling, crisis 
intervention, and supportive listening.
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline. 5-9 pm.
Counseling and Student Development Center, 
a Division of Student Affairs
In observance of WORLD AIDS DAYDecember 1  
you are cordially invited to attend the following 
planned events:
Wednesday, November 28 
4:30 p.m. "U.S. AIDS Policy: 
The Triumph of Primitive 
Thinking over Research and 
Rationality," presented by 
Robyn Dawes. Professor Dawes 
is a member of the National Re
search Council and contributor 
to AIDS: Sexual Behavior and 
Intravenous Drug Use and AIDS: 
The Second Decade.
Doherty Hall 1112.
A reception will fol
low the program.
6 p.m. Show
ing of "Long
time Compan
ion," (1990) 
which won the 
Audience Award 
at this year's 
United States Film 
Festival. The film has 
received much critical acclaim 
for its humorous and heartbreak
ing portrayal of a group of 
friends as they first learn of an 
unknown illness in 1981 and 
progress throughout the 80s to 
understanding the scope of that 
illness, AIDS. Doherty Hall 1112. 
A short discussion for those inter
ested will follow the screening.
9 p.m. "Longtime Compan
ion," Doherty Hall 2210.
Thursday, November 29 
4:30 p.m. "Perspectives from 
a Woman with HIV," Women's 
Center, 105 Margaret Morrison 
Street.
8 p.m. Showing of "Longtime 
Companion," Porter Hall 100. A 
short discussion zvill follow 
the film.
1 O p.m.
"Longtime Com
panion," Porter 
Hall 100.
World AIDS 
Day, established 
in 1988 by the 
World Health Or
ganization, is an an
nual day of observance de
signed to expand and 
strengthen the worldwide effort 
to halt AIDS. It is a day to 
open channels of communica
tion, strengthen the exchange of 
information and experience, 
and forge a spirit of social tol
erance.
Sponsored by the Division of Student Affairs. For more information, please call x2073.
2MUs 2U 2tsuUd y atbUUb 
2ruM oMU opg msrk efTuUC 
oUtCP 2U aMpTU eahi
UKRV MICHELSrsilient anil O,Jauniler. SOII'liiiernh-ijf ritintili. Stia if l'Ji2
Sepag $0A$eSrK/
uden sracoDEAN HERE(nuTRu Teek Chtst iff IMS
MIKE FATNOUEOil I Wi . M </ I'AV
fi IK itoau;rc s6n Duffi'ciit# nf iw
These computer professionals are working on some of the 
most challenging, rewarding, and influential UNIX 
System development being done in the world today.
But it wasnt too long ago that each of them was just like 
you, wrapping up a lot of hard years studying computer 
science, and looking for an opportunity to turn that effort 
into a career of working in the best professional and 
environmental situation possible.
And when that opportunity reached out from The Santa 
Cruz Operation, Inc., they chose SCO hands down.
If you're ready to join them in Santa Cruzplaying with 
the top UNIX System team in the businesswe're ready to 
talk with you.
You're invited to an Information Session hosted by members 
of our Technical Staff so that you can find out more about 
working with the company that has put more UNIX Systems 
on more computers worldwide than anyone elseSCO. 
DATE: Thursday, January 24 
TIME: 7:00 - 9:00pm 
PLACE: Skibo Rm 12
To discuss career opportunities at SCO, sign up at your 
Career Placement Office for an appointment with an SCO 
recruiter who will be at your campus on Friday, January 25. 
Were looking for engineers in die following areas:
? Software Development
? Quality Assurance
? Technical Support
? MIS
Qualifications:
B.S./M.S. in Computer Science or equivalent 
Excellent communication skills 
If you are unable to meet with us while were on campus, 
please send your resume to:
SCO
 College Relations 
The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc. 
400 Encinal StreetTHE SANTA CRUZ OPERATION pQ ox vm..
"T EQUAL oppomjNm hisnotha Santa Cruz, CA 95061 
or call 800-SCO-UNIX (726-8469) Ext. 5600
SCO and the SCO logo arc registered trademarks of The Santa Cmz Operation. Inc. in die U.S.A. and other countries. UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX Systems laboratories in the U SA. and other countries.e 1990 The Sana Cnc Operation. Inc All Rights Reserwl ( vfv.

---------------------------------------------------

drive stalls, 17-7
Loss to Lycoming taintsPRESS PASS
by Jason McDonald ~J~d rtclHS  perfect season
If turkeys only 
[had ears...
A couple of days from now, 
(Carnegie Mellon will turn into a 
t town as thousands of 
I,students head somewhere for 
I Thanksgiving. Along those 
I lines, Id like to present the 
sports worlds version of Who 
[.Should Be Thankful For What 
land Why.
Carnegie Mellon soccer coach 
[.Nick Gaudioso and the soccer 
I team should be thankful for the 
I timely completion of Gesling 
I Stadium. The soccer team had 
I one of its best seasons this year
- a season that probably 
wouldnt have been possible if 
(the team had to play its home 
(games out in Sewickley again.
Ditto for Rich.Lackner and 
I the football Tartans. Mount 
Lebanon High Schools field
I isnt bad, but theres really no
 place like home.
Lackner should also be giving 
|thanks for the incredible season 
his team has had this year. The 
defense was solid this season, 
but the offense was just amaz
ingIn that vein, the Tartan 
[offense  quarterback Billy 
|Snyder and running back Scott 
Barnyak in particular  should 
make sure to give a collective 
bat on the back to the Tartans 
offensive line. Coming into the 
Reason, the line seemed to be 
;he Tartans biggest question 
nark, but they came together to 
form a solid unit, as the statis
tics show.
Carnegie Mellons basketball 
[program has to be thankful for 
[the new chance offered by the 
entrance of mens coach Tony 
(Vingen. Without commenting 
[on the coaching ability of former 
:oach Larry Anderson, I noticed 
ithat the Tartans had been 
losing, and worse still, they 
seemed to be pretty apathetic 
about it. Now theyll have a 
ghance to start on the road to 
recovery.
j As a diehard Penguins fan, I 
an only begin to explain how 
ucky the Pens are to have the 
Jeam come together without 
[superstar Mario Lemieux. It 
jvould have been so easy for the 
fens to roll over and let the rest 
of the National Hockey League 
plk all over them; instead, the 
Pens hung tight as a team and 
Ve still in the Patrick Division 
|ght. Now how about getting - 
femieux back in playing shape? 
| Staying with the local profes
sional teams, the Steelers are 
fortunate to have the rest of the 
Rational Football League go 
ft0 an aggregate coma this 
|ear. To tell the truth, the 
Ijteelers havent played like a 
frst-place team, but theyre 
fitting pretty atop the AFC 
fentral. Games against stiffs 
the Falcons, Chargers, and 
Jpms (explain why they fell 
Bpart like they did) certainly 
rayed a part.
Finally, Id also like to include 
Kuanapolis Colts quarterback
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
WILLIAMSPORT, Penn. The 
Tartans dream season ended 
Saturday, as they lost to Lycoming 
177 in the first round of the 
Division III South Region play
offs.
Both teams entered the game 
with unblemished records  the 
Tartans 10-0, ranked third in the 
South, andLycoming9-0, ranked 
second. Saturdays game was the 
first meeting between the two 
teams.
This was the fifth playoff appearancefortheTartans, buttheir 
first since 1985. It was also their 
first undefeated season since 85, 
when they went 8-0. The War
riors have advanced to post-season play three of the last five 
years, including last year when 
they lost to Ferrum in the second 
round.
Statistically, things did not go 
the Tartans way. Lycomings 
defense, ranked fourth in Division 
III, held CMU to 248 yards total 
offense while the Warriors offense 
racked up 425 total yards. The 
usually prolific Tartan rushing 
game, ranked tenth in Division
III (297.9 yards per game), managedjust 168 yards on the ground.
Tartan quarterback Bill Snyder 
completed 10 of 20 passes for 80 
yards and threw two intercep
tions. I picked a bad game to 
have a bad game, said Snyder. 
Although if Id had a bad game 
any earlier, we wouldnt even be
at this situation.
Warrior quarterback Ed 
Dougherty completed 21 of 40 
passes for 261 yards. Snyder was 
sacked three times while 
Dougherty, as slippery as the rainsoaked field, eluded a relentless 
Tartan pass rush all afternoon.
I wish we could have gotten 
some sacks, said sophomore 
linebacker Matt Pielert. I think 
the game might have turned out
I picked a bad 
game to have a 
bad game."
 Senior QB 
Billy Snyder
different if we had.
We were trying to get in there 
and it seemed like nothing we 
were doing was working, said 
senior nose tackle Marvin Ger
many. He was rolling out the 
opposite way that we were going. 
We would slant left, hed roll right. 
It was frustrating.
But as significant as these sta
tistics are, they do not tell the 
whole tale. The game was not 
won or lost on paper. It was won 
by Lycoming on turnovers con
verted to points. It was lost by the 
Tartans by the length of the 
chains.
The most disappointing thing 
isnt the loss, said Snyder. Its 
that we lost the game. To only
, Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Photo Staff 
Senior quarterback Billy Snyder hands the ball off to senior running back Scott Barnyak.
come up with seven pointslets 
just put it this way, I dont think 
the best team won today.
As one might expect, it was a 
hard-fought game. And thanks to 
the Never-Say-Die Tartans it was 
a close game that came right down 
to the final minute.
I think we did Carnegie Mellon 
proud with our effort today, said 
head coach Rich Lackner. Im
pleased. We never gave up, we 
never threw in the towel. Our 
kids played hard and tough and I 
admire them for it.
Slick field conditions made both 
clean transitions and good foot
ing as difficult as finding a yellow 
flag when you needed one. Over
night rains turned College Fields 
natural grass surface into a slipand-slide, as the Tartans found
out early in the game.
The turf was really bad, said 
Snyder. Our team is spoiled be
cause were practicing constantly 
on turf and were used to cutting 
one way and not having a prob
lem. r
Lycoming took a 7-0 lead on a 
one yard run by Dougherty in the 
first quarter following a fumbled 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 3J6
Westminster relays launch Tartans swim season
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Copy Manager
The Carnegie Mellon mens and 
womens swimming teams had 
very strong performances in their 
first competitions of the season in 
Fridays Westminster Relays.
The men finished third with 78 
points and the women finished 
fourth with 48 points. A total of 
six schools attended, with 
Edinboro winning the mens and
womens meet with scores of 168 
and 142, respectively.
I was really pleased with the 
way we swam, commented Head 
Coach Bruce Bronsdon. We had 
certain goals [for this meet]... I 
think we accomplished. Almost 
every relay team for Carnegie 
Mellon swam faster than last 
years Westminster Relays and 
some swimmers came close to 
personal records set last year in 
the University Athletic Associa7 was really pleased with the way we
swam.
 Head Coach Bruce Bronsdon
tion championship meet.
Since the meet did not have 
individual events, Bronsdon 
evaluated the teams perfor
mances himself. We swam really 
solid, he said. You just want a
place to start with and thats what 
we got.
Looking ahead to the upcoming 
season, both teams have many 
strong individuals, including AllAmerican juniors Jo
George on my little list; hes 
enough to still be alive. 
ow boneheaded does a team 
pVe to be to trade half of its 
ensive line for a quarterback
10 s as mobile as a tree? While 
quarterbacks are being
11 Peanuts to do their jobs, 
^ge gets paid millions of
1 ars to watch games from flat lhis back.
^ that s not something him to 
^ankful for, I dont knowhat is.
^a>'tcLn Assistant Sports Editor
l0n ^Donald is a junior IM aJor.
juouii uigniun/ i pi icji l u&iiiui uainiuum i 00111 nwitJi i
Sophomore Steve Bowser of USS Carnegie heads the ball toward the Trojan goal in Sundays IM soccer minors championships.
Wollschlaeger and Brian 
Zimmerman. Senior captains 
Paul Moran, Michelle McHaffey, 
Tom Musial, and senior Leslie 
Mcgill are also important assets.
The new freshman swimmers 
are very talented and help to make 
this years team deeper than last 
years. This depth will give 
Bronsdon more flexibility with hjis 
top swimmers, allowing them |;o 
compete in fewer races and gt 
better times.
IM soccer 
wraps up
Theta Xi wins \
By KATIE CULBERTSON ;
Tartan Sports Editor
IM soccer action is wrapping ujp 
for the season. Majors, minor&, 
and womens competition reache'd 
their finales Thursday night in 
Gesling Stadium.
The Intermediate finals will be 
played today.
Thursday, Theta Xi defeated 
Real Mellon for the majors title.
In minors action, the Navy teanji 
of USS Carnegie toppled the Tro'- 
jans 2-1 for the title yesterda 
afternoon. USS Carnegie made it 
to the finals by the skin of its 
teeth, defeating the Governors in 
sudden death overtime.
The womens championship be{ 
tween Phi Kappa Theta ancj 
Kappa Alpha Theta was a clos<3 
one. The game was tied 2-2, unti^ 
Theta scored in sudden death! 
overtime to make the final 32. !
Intermediate competition 
comes to a close this afternoon as 
the GSIA team takes on Alphai 
Tau Omega at 4:30 in Gesling 
Stadium. ATO m ade it to the finals ; 
by virtue of its 5-2 win over Delta ; 
Upsilon. GSIA defeated Phi Kap! 
3-2 in the semi-final round! 
Thursday night.
Phi Kap led the first half, but j 
surrendered two GSIA goals in j 
the second half.

---------------------------------------------------

AB CONCERTS PRESENTS
THURSDAY 
NOV. 29
ftVt
PLUS
THE NIXON CLOCKS
WITH MC MARK EDDIE
7:30 pm SKIBO BALLROOM
TICKETS - $1 WITH CMU ID 
AVAILABLE AT SKIBO INFO DESK
AB CONCERTS PRESENTS
OVER-THE-EDGE AVANT-GARDE MUSIC SERIES CONCERT #2 
FEATURING TWO MULTI-MEDIA ELECTRONIC AND COMPUTER 
MUSIC GROUPS FROM SWEDEN
PHAUSSKARKOWSKI 
BILTING
FRIDAY 
NOVEMBER 30
AND LEGENDARY EXPERIMENTAL GROUP FROM ENGLAND
HAFLER TRIO
8:00 pm MELLON INSTITUTE AUDITORIUM 
$7 GENERAL ADMISSION, $5 STUDENTS, $2 CMU ID
AB COFFEEHOUSE PRESENTS
SATURDAY 
DECEMBER 1
ACOUSTIC GUITARIST
WILLIE PORTER
8:00 pm WHERRETT ROOM 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE PROVIDED
All of the above are funded by your Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990131
Tartans surrender 80-53 
to F&M in tournament
National Scoreboard
gy JASON McDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
LANCASTER, Penn.  The Carnegie Mellon 
^omen's basketball team started its 1990 season 
jys weekend with a 11 performance in the Franklin 
jj Marshall college tournament. The Tartans 
)reezed past Immaculata to reach the finals, but 
ost, 80-53, to a tough host team.
I dont want this team to lose confidence, said 
lead Coach Gerri Seidl. Were a good team, but 
hey [Franklin & Marshall] are an excellent team. 
Tieyll-probably be ranked in our region.
F&M got out to a fast start, going on a 164 run 
iver the first five minutes. F&M widened its lead to 
25-4 after a CMU timeout, but CMU then began to 
law its way back.
The Tartans moved within 25-15 and proceeded 
;o stay within 10 or 11 until the half. The Tartans 
yent to the locker room trailing 41-30.
We just came out cold, said Seidl. We made 
ome turnovers that they capitalized on.
The second half went much like the first, but 
ieidl emphasized that the score wasnt indicative 
3f the game. There were times when we were down 
iy 15 or 20, and there were other times when we 
ilayed right along with them.
Rebounding was a problem; the Tartans lost the 
lattle of the boards by a 62-33 margin. However, 
he Tartans managed to shut down F&Ms inside 
scoring. F&M'had Tina Breithaupt, a 64 fresh
man, playing center, but junior Amy Buxbaum 
managed to hold her to four points on the afternoon. 
Franklin and Marshalls guards, on the other 
hand, had a great day  Carol Flinchbauch, the 
teams leading scorer, had 29 points including a 
perfect four of four from three point territory, and 
two other F&M guards reached double digits.
They were a very aggressive, very physical team, 
said Seidl. They capitalized on every turnover. 
Junior guard Heather ODonnell led the Tartans 
with 14 points; junior guard Fahey added 11 more. 
Buxbaum had nine points and also had 12 rebounds. 
Amy had a nice game inside, said Seidl.
In Saturdays opening round game, Carnegie 
Mellon got a chance to dish out a beating, breezing 
>ast Immaculata, 85-53. Six Tartan players reached 
louble figures in scoring as the Tartans rolled to
I dont want this team to 
lose confidence. Were a 
good team, but they 
[Franklin & Marshall] are an 
excellent team. Theyll prob
ably be ranked in our re
gion. 
 Head Coach Gerri Seidl
the season-opening victory.
The first half of the game was a lot closer than the 
second half, but the whole game was pretty lop
sided. The Tartans came into halftime leading by 
13; furthermore, 10 of the 11 Tartans had seen 
action before the half. According to Seidl, it took a 
little while to get in sync. In the second half, we 
relaxed and shot better.
Seidls only major criticism of the Tartans first 
effort was directed at rebounding. They got most of 
their first-half points on second-effort shots, and 
that didnt make me too happy, she said, but we 
adjusted in the second half and started changing 
defenses more often, which seemed to help a lot. 
Sophomore forward Chandra Buist led the Tar
tans with 16 points and 12 rebounds. Three players 
 sophomore guard Kelly Sterling, freshman for
ward Jeanine Megahan, and Fahey  scored 13 
points apiece; in addition, Fahey also led the Tar
tans with five steals. ODonnell and Amy Buxbaum 
were the other double-digit scorers with 10 points 
and six rebounds each.
The Tartans will begin University Athletic As
sociation play with their home opener against Case 
Western Reserve University tomorrow night. Last 
season, Case finished last in the UAA with a winless 
0-8 record, the Tartans won 71-39 in their head-tohead matchup.
If we play the type of game were capable of 
playing, we should be able to handle them, said 
Seidl.
Tomorrows game begins at 6 pm.
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE
San Francisco 31, Tampa Bay 7 
Chicago 16, Denver 13*
Green Bay 24, Phoenix 21 
Indianapolis 17, NY Jets 14 
Minnesota 24, Seattle 21
Philadelphia 24, Atlanta 23 
Washington 31, New Orleans 17 
Kansas City 27, San Diego 10 
Houston 35, Cleveland 23 
Buffalo 14, New Eng;and 0 
NY Giants 20, Detroit 0
?overtime
Tonight: The Los Angeles Raiders 
play the Miami Dolphins at 9 pm 
on ABC.
Scores courtesy WRCT AP wire.
NHL Standings
PATRICK DIVISIONWLTPTSNORRIS DIVISION
NY Rangers156232Chicago156232
Philadelphia129125St. Louis144129
New Jersey119123Detroit89319
Pittsburgh108222Minnesota413412
Washington1012020Toronto41719
NY Islanders811016
ADAMS DIVISION
SMYTHE DIVISIONBoston116426
Los Angeles144129Montreal109323
Calgary128226Hartford89319
Vancouver1010020Buffalo78519
Winnipeg712216Quebec31639
Edmonton411210
FREE CATALOGOF GOVERNMENT BOOKS
The I S. Government Printing 
Office has a free catalog of new 
and popular hooks sold by the 
Government. Books about 
agriculture, energy, children, 
space, health, history, business, 
vacations, and much more. Find 
out what Government books arc
all about. Send for your free, 
catalog.
Free Catalog
P.O. Box 37000 Washington. DC 20013-7000
ATTENTION
H&SS Students and IM/ECON Majors
Application Deadline 
for
CMU/Keio University
Exchange Program in Japan 
is 
NOVEMBER 30, 1990
Only 2 Spaces Available
Prior training in Japanese is desirable 
but not necessary
FINAL Information Meeting to be held
Monday, November 26, 1990, at 5:30 pm
in the
Office of International Education 
219 Smith Hall (x7595)
ATTENTION
CIT & MCS Sophomores 
Architecture Majors (3rd Year)
Application Deadline 
for
CMU/Ecole Polytechnique
Exchange Program in Switzerland 
is 
NOVEMBER 30, 1990
Only 12 Spaces Available 
Prior training in French is desirable 
but not necessary
FINAL Information Meeting to be held
Monday, November 26, 1990, at 5:30 pm
in the
Office of International Education 
219 Smith Hall (x7595)

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990
Mens team tunes up with Cardinai-White game
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
TJie mens basketball team concluded 
its preseason this Saturday with the 
Cardinal and White intrasquad game. 
TheCardinal team overcame an 11-point 
half'time deficit to win 70-66.
The red team came out with a lot of 
intensity in the second half, and that, I 
think, was the story, said Head Coach 
Tony Wingen.
Wingen did not coach in the game; 
assistant coach Mike Mastroianni 
coached the victorious Cardinal squad 
while assistant coach Rich Nerone ran 
the White.
Wingen remained active in the game, 
though. My role was to kind of oversee 
everything, he said. I flip-flopped be
tween both benches. I did offer [sugges
tions] on occasion, though.
We sat down with the staff and de
vised a general game plan as to what we 
were going to follow, and both coaches 
did a good job getting their teams into 
what we wanted to do.
The White team had a great first half, 
going to the locker room with a 42-31 
lead. The first half was even, but White 
pulled away late in the period.
Sophomore Dan Erhard and freshman 
Steve Rennekamp led the White with 10 
points apiece. Freshman Matt Reiprish
led the Cardinal team, tallying 10 points 
of his own, and Cardinal freshman De
rek Dragisich had a strong first half with 
10 rebounds.
The White team went ice-cold in the 
early part of the second half, going score
less for the first 5:32 of the second half. 
Senior guard Lewis Jackson, who scored 
13 of his 15 points in the second half, led 
the Cardinal comeback.
They were a little flat in the first half, 
said Wingen. They werent playing as 
aggressively as wed like them to, but 
Mike got them cranked up at halftime, 
they picked up the intensity, and it was 
good.
Back-to-back three-pointers by fresh
man Michael Hosni temporarily halted 
the Cardinal explosion, but Cardinal soon 
got back on track, eventually widening 
its lead to as much as eight points, 66 
58.
The White team made it close coming 
into the closing minutes, but werent 
able to get the ball back as the Cardinal 
team avoided White foul attempts long 
enough to severely drain the remaining 
clock.
In the second half, the White team was 
also hindered by the loss of junior Chris 
Dobbs. According to Wingen, Dobbs fell 
in the first half, and sat out the second 
half, complaining about numbness in 
the elbow. However, Dobbs should be
ready for tomorrows season opener 
against Case Western.
The leading Cardinal scorers were 
Reiprish (16 points), Jackson (15), 
sophomore Chris Benec (14), and 
Dragisich (10). Jackson and Dragisich 
tied for the team rebound lead with 11 
each.
White was led by Hosni (17 points, 
including 3 three-pointers), Erhard (16 
points), and Rennekamp, with 14 points 
and a game-high 12 rebounds.
Wingen saw many promising signs in 
Saturdays game. I was very pleased 
with our offensive rebounding, he said. 
Conversely, our defensive rebounding 
was not so good, or not as good as wed 
like it to be.
I felt like we moved the ball up the 
floor pretty well, Wingen continued. We 
got into our fast-breaking style of play, 
and we didnt shoot the ball that badly, 
either.
The Tartans open their regular season 
tomorrow with a University Athletic 
Association contest against Case West
ern Reserve University.
Case has excellent guards, said 
Wingen. Ed Saxon was an all-league 
performer for them last year; he aver
aged about 21 a game. Hes a very quick, 
very explosive player.
Tomorrows game will start at 7 pm in 
Skibo Gym.
Jason Digman/Tartan Senior Darkroom Technician 
Freshman Derek Dragisich (red) and sophomore Danny Erhard battle under the basket.
Mitchell sees QB duty as Eagles ravage injury-plagued Skins
NFL NEWS
by Dave Martin
Contrary to my beliefs, the 
Eagles whipped on the Redskins, 
dominating an injury-laden 
Washington team, in the process 
reducing their quarterback situ
ation to Brian Mitchell, a rookie 
running back who apparently ran 
the wishbone offense in the college 
ranks (he had that signature 
wishbone pass). Even though he 
wa}5 against the Eagles prevent 
defense, he did manage to score a 
toiichdown toward the end of the 
game.
Rypien was back yesterday 
against the Saints, and hopefully 
will be able to play for the Skins 
the rest of the year. If not, theres 
always Mitchell.
Nothing has really changed in 
the NFL since last I wrote; no 
major shifts in division play be
fore Sunday, that is. Yesterdays 
games will have major implica
tions on the AFC West, one half of
the AFC Central will be decided 
with the next half to be decided 
December 2.
More on the Arizona ordeal.... 
My statement last week was very 
one-sided, and if you wanted to 
look at it beyond the surface, it 
could have been construed as 
racist.
But all I wrote was all I thought. 
I didnt care  and really still 
dontabout the racial ramifica
tions my statement m ay have had; 
none were intended. My point is 
merely that the state has its own 
politics, the NFL has its. The two 
should not intermingle on any 
terms, except where money is 
concerned, because money keeps 
the NFL alive.
If a pull-out were to be blamed 
solely on the fact that Phoenix 
was proven to be an unprofitable 
place to play, ignoring totally that 
Martin Luther King Day didnt 
exist in Arizona, then it would be 
acceptable. But the specification 
that Super Bowl XXVII wouldnt 
be played in Phoenix without 
Kings day eliminates the slight
est chance that a pull-out would 
occur for entirely economic rea
sons.
The only way a pull-out would 
be acceptable for me is if the ma
jority of players were to say that if
they were to play in the Super 
Bowl in Arizona, they would be 
offended by the lack of a holiday 
for Martin Luther King Jr., and 
would refuse to play there on that 
basis. Otherwise, play in Phoenix.
Eight games are played there 
every year by the Cardinals. Why 
dont the visiting teams complain? 
The NFL is merely using its 
money-making clout to bully the 
state for the federal government, 
because the federal administra
tion doesnt have a weapon to use 
against Arizona to force Kings 
day on it. But thats an argument 
for another day, another place, 
another paper....
Tonights game between the 
Raiders and Dolphins should be a 
defensive struggle between two 
returning titans in the NFLs past. 
The Dolphins have provided the 
AFC East with some parity thats 
been missing the last few years, 
just as the Raiders have proven 
that even bad quarterbacks have 
good years. Take the Dolphins by 
10, and when you think Super 
Bowl, dont forget about Miami, 
as I have lately. If they take this 
victory, theyre definitely in the 
hunt.
As with any Thanksgiving Day, 
the days festivities cannot be 
complete without a couple of foot
The Dolphins have provided the AFC 
East with some parity thats been 
missing the last few years, just as the 
Raiders have proven that even bad 
quarterbacks have good years.
ball games. Unfortunately, the 
two games this year will probably 
put you to sleep faster than eat
ing ten pounds of turkey, unless 
youre a fan of one of the four 
teams involved.
Denver travels to Detroit, the 
traditional Thanksgiving team. 
If the Lions win, theyll have a lot 
for which to be thankful. So will 
Denver, though. Take the Lions 
behind Gagliano by a slim margin. 
Lions 34, Broncos 31. If there were 
only one game this year that the 
Broncos would win, though, it 
would be this one.
The other Thanksgiving game 
should prove to be a little more 
interesting, depending on 
Washingtons quarterback situa
tion. But not too interesting. 
Skins 21, Cowboys 10.
Sunday, the Falcons fly into the 
Superdome to take on the Saints.
Quite possibly the battle for sec
ond place in the NFC West, and a 
must win for the Falcons to have 
an outside shot at a wild card bid. 
I take the Saints without a quar
terback (Walsh doesnt impress 
me, maybe with time) 3427. Chi
cago takes on the Minnesota Vi
kings, who before yesterdays 
game had a two game win streak 
going. The Bears will vanquish 
any thoughts of winning fairly 
early against the offenseless 
Vikes. 24-6.
Cincinnati hosts the Colts in a 
must-win game for the Bengals. 
The Colts are merely trying to 
hang on. Bengals 24, Colts 13. 
The San Francisco 49ers host the 
second of two teams to beat them 
last year, the Los Angeles Rams. 
The Niners are looking forward 
to a December 3 matchup with 
the Rams, but not too much to
beat the Rams, 31-17. Miami 
takes on Cleveland in what should 
be a fairly easy win, 35-7. Phoe
nix would like to show off at home 
and win over New England, 27- 
14.
In an interesting NFC East 
game, the Giants travel to Veter 
ans Stadium to play a rebounding 
Eagles team. Could the Giantsbt 
looking forward to San Francisco 
Upset of the week and 
the game of the week.
Giants 23. The Pittsburgh 
Steelers are looking forward to 
the playoffs, should easily defeat] 
the Jets, 3113. Green Bays 
Majik is at work, Packers over] 
the Buccaneers by 14. San Diego] 
prays for a playoff spot, and the) 
need to beat Seattle to do it| 
Chargers 28, Seahawks 23.
Finally, the game of the weelj 
(actually one of two) should got 
Kansas City and the L.A. Raid; 
ers. The winner here will prot> 
ably, though not necessarily, 
the division. The Chiefs won the 
first game in a low-scoring defen
sive struggle 9-7. Last timj 
around, I picked the Raiders. II] 
do it again  I guess because I*nj 
stupid  Raiders 24, Chiefs 21
Dave Martin is a freshman psy
chology major.
Champs
on Forward A sports bar
5832 Forward Ave (Squirrel Hill) 
only minutes from campus
Monday 
10 cent Peel & Eat Shrimp 
Tuesday  Mexican Nite 
$1 Nachos  Mex Drink Specials 
Wednesday  Ladies Nite 
Special Discounts for Ladies
Thursday  Wing Nite 
25 cents Each  Pittsburgh's 
biggest, meatiest, and tastiest 
wings
An upscale saloon for an upscale university
Wissmans Forward Lanes
5844 Forward Avenue (Squirrel Hill) 422-5844 
only minutes from campus
Thursday CMU Night 
9:30pm- 12:30am
Free rental shoes and bowling discounts 
with CMU I.D. 
Call for special group rates and all nite parties.
One 14 One Item Pizza
only
$5.99
FOUR STAR 
PIZZA
Fast Free Delivery
10 Minute Pick Up Service
PRICES SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE SALES TAX683-0400
4740 BAUM BLVD. -OAKLAND

---------------------------------------------------

L
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 199015':
SPORTS IN SEASON
,ter Polo
jjuflissioner 
pabian, x8371 
jfipus Champions: 
jorsThe Sperm Whales play 
Sudsuckers tonight for the 
[lie 10 Feet Undernors
ccer
nmissioners
ijors  Scott Mills, x5308 
mediateJohn Supp, x8423 
nors  Sujit Bhattacharya, 
4084
men Only  Kris Pasqualin,
x5978 
Campus Champions:
Majors  Theta Xi 
Intermediate  ATO and GSIA 
play tonight.
MinorsUSS Carnegie beat the 
Trojans 
Women Only  Theta
Six-Person Volleyball
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Campus Champions:
Majors  Networkers 
Intermediate  Volleyball Club 
Minors  DTD A 
MVP  John Cheng of the 
Networkers
Bowling
Commissioner 
Kris Pasqualin, x5978 
Matches will be held Saturday 
mornings at Forward Lanes in 
Squirrel Hill. Please turn in 
bowling fees and scores to the 
commissioner.
Chess
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the Intramural office. 
Play all matches as scheduled and 
report all scores to the commis
sioner.
Bridge
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Please pick up schedules in the 
Intramural office and please re
port winning scores to the com
missioner.
Racquetball
Commissioner 
Tom Murphy, x8424
Backgammon
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office.
Team Table Tennis
Commissioner 
Jon Wei, x8354 
Pick up league schedules in the 
IM office and report scores to the 
commissioner.
Darts
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Pick up league schedules in the 
IM office and.report scores to the 
commissioner or to the IM office.
Three-Person Volleyball
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office.
Please play all matches as. , 
scheduled; there will be no sched- . 
ule changes made.
Standings are posted on the IM^ 
bulletin board.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Basketball
Commissioners have not yet been, 
assigned.
Entries are due January 24. 
Register now in one of four, . 
leagues; majors, intermediate,^ 
minors, or women only.
IM Scoreboard
lUUngUbTps cp..UfBt..
JjORS
5 IONA
fast Nemesis 
juttplugs 
ISCS Deans
ISION B
games played. 
ISION C
en & A Volleyball 
; Networkers
ISION D 
james played.
RMEDIATE
SION A 
Spiking Line 
ies
Irthe Net Gang 
jgeSpikes
SION B 
;e A 
;a Tazewell 
ta Xi T
me
Littleton 
i Death 2 
Is
l/OND
taXiS
)ar
ta Airborne
B/ON E 
sen Aces 2 
I
Waller
ISION F 
Sj Carnegie 
|os Posse
Ixix
ack by popular demand 
SHAY DUFFIN
n two hit shows: The 
importance of Being Irish and 
endan Behan's Confessions of 
Irish Rebel Nov. 20- Dec. 2 
fe're reaping the benefits; hes rific. - Ed Blank, Pgh. Press >9/85 *
pial Thanksgiving Dinner 
now- Thurs., Nov. 22 - 6:30 m
Ment Discount $7.50 with I.D. rd^omcySlancT^esiaurani 
30 GRANT AVE., ETNA 
(412)781-1666
Write 
for 
tartan 
?ports. 
Please.
N semester, the sports staff 
nee^ writers to cover tenn? golf, track, baseball, laT*'crew- IM sports, and a IB ore. If you are interested 
| nting for Tartan Sports 
.neaer. please stop by 
|o 50 or call x2111 and ask 
or Jason.
DIVISION G 
DU A
Brilliant Pebbles 
Pika Bradford
DIVISION H 
Phi Kap 
Smash Hits 
Damp Bowlers
MINORS
DIVISION A 
DTD All Who 
Phi Kap A 
KDR Random
DIVISION B 
Melting Pot II 
Theta Xi Beer 
Big Kahuna
DIVISION C 
Pi Alpha Delta 
DTD Oppose 
T Chapter Mes
DIVISION D 
Not Bills 
DTD Us 
Pioneers B
DIVISION E 
Doherty Dinosaurs 
Theta Xi X 
Kappa Sigs
DIVISION F 
Sig Tau Nice Guys 
Jolly Rogers 
The Chiefs
DIVISION G 
Fringe B 
Theta Xi A 
Pilam A
DIVISION H 
18'7" and 450 lbs. 
Theta Xi T 
KGB Eggplants
DIVISION I
0 
0
1
Melting Pot I 
Beta Triple Fudge 
Pilam B
DIVISION J 
No games played.
DIVISION K 
PUB 250 
Green Aces 
Phi Kap B
DIVISION L 
Sig Tau Associates 
MC Squared 
Aaargh
1 O
0 -0
O 1
DIVISION M 
Bump & Grind 
Beta Bouncers 
A-Team 
Incognito
DIVISION N 
No games played.
WOMEN ONLY
Delta Gamma A 
AWF Fringe 
Pioneers 
Delta Gamma B
CHESS
Trojans B 2 0
Phi Kap A 0 0
Trojans A O O
Theta Xi 0 0
Pilam A 0 0
Pilam B 0 0
USS Carnegie - 0 1
McGill 2 0 1
TEAM TABLE TENNIS
MAJORS
Phi Kap 2 0
Slug & the Fishheads 0 0
Ping Panthers 0 1
Dragon Balls WTHM 0 1
MINORS
DIVISION A 
The Dogs 
Green Aces 
Sig Tau
DIVISION B 
No games played.
DIVISION C 
Theta Xi 
Slammers 
Phi Kap
DIVISION D 
No games played.
0... 
1 
1
0
0
1
THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE UGLY
Are these behaviors OK, inappropriate, wrong or something else? 
Think about it.
1. Hawkeye and Hotlips have been dating for several years and 
have had sexual intercourse. She is asleep when he arrives. She 
awakens when he tries to penetrate her.
Acceptable Abuse
2. Maddy told David to leave and slapped him twice. He took her 
in his arms and kissed her. Then they had sex. v
Acceptable Abuse
3. On Jack and Jills first date they went back to his room and had 
a few drinks. She said no to fooling around but didnt stop him. He 
wouldnt take no for an answer. Then they had sex.
Acceptable Abuse
FORUM
Co-sponsored by
and
Dining Service
Open to Students, Faculty & Staff
Tuesday, November 27,1990 at 7:00PM 
in the Faculty Dining Room
Issues:
 University Center Food court menu concepts
 1991 - 1992 Meal Plan Revision
old a piece of tape up to your eyes, j 
dim the lights and try to fill out your 
taxes.
Now you're seeing things from her 
point of view.
Almost everybody has to file taxes, but not 
everyone can do it on their own. Vblunteer and 
help make someone's taxes less taxing. Call 
1800424-10-10.
schistosomiasis | schoolhouse
Schlumberger
(shlum  bur. zha)
n. 1. a 5 billion dollar international 
measurement and systems and oilfield 
services company noted for recruiting the 
brightest engineering and scientific 
minds from all over the world. 2. 50,000 
self-motivated, enterprising achievers 
totally committed to excellence. 3. A 
place for self-starters in virtually every 
scientific and engineering discipline to 
launch exceptional careers.
ENGINEERING 
GEOSCIENCES 
APPLIED SCIENCES
PLEASE NOTE: Open to all interested students. 
Your attendance at the Information Meeting is a 
prerequisite to our interviewing process. Please 
attend. Casual attire.
INFORMATION MEETING:
Date: November 29, 1990 
Time: 7 pm  9 pm 
Place: Skibo, Room 12
INTERVIEWING:
Date: November 30, 1990 
Place: Check with Placement Office
Schlumberger Industries, Schlumberger Technologies and Schlumberger Oilfield Services are equal opportunity employers.
Exceptional People. Exceptional Technology. Worldwide.

---------------------------------------------------

16The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990
Tartans ousted from Division III playoff;
FOOTBALL, from page 11
exchange between Snyder and 
center Craig Caputo. The fumble 
came on the Tartans first play 
from scrimmage at their own 30 
yardline.
The Tartans put together an 
impressive drive following the 
kickoff. Key third and fourthdown conversions kept the chains 
moving and moved the Tartans 
(down to the Lycoming 16 yard 
line. But on third-and-nine, de
fensive back Rick Bealer picked 
off a Snyder pass in the end zone.
We were running pretty well, 
said Barnyak, whose 82 yards led 
all Tartan rushers. But we didnt 
get the ball in the end zone when 
we needed to. Wed move the ball 
well and then self-destruct.
Bealer came back to haunt the 
Tartans minutes later as he 
nabbed his second interception of 
the game. Bill was getting pres
sured all day, said senior wide 
receiver Don DeCaro. It wasnt 
really his fault. He was getting
We went 10-0.... Thats something 
no other team in CMU history has 
done.... We had a remarkable season 
and iveVe got nothing to hang our 
heads about.
 Head Coach Rich Lackner
hit and a lot of times when he was 
throwing the ball and that has an 
effect on the pass.
They pressured me, probably 
better than any team weve faced 
this year, said Snyder. They shut 
off the center-field, which is 
something that no teams really 
been able to do.
This time, Lycoming put the 
ball in the end zone to take a 14 
0 lead into halftime. On secondand-seven, Dougherty hit receiver 
Joe DeSimoney streaking down 
the sideline for a 33-yard touch
down. Dougherty hooked up with 
his favorite target, Paul 
Holloman, earler in the drive for 
completions of 14 and 20.
The Tartans, who have 
outscored opponents 17076 in 
the final two quarters, put them
selves back in the game on their 
first drive of the second half. 
Snyder took the ball in from one 
yard out to narrow the Lycoming 
lead to 14-7. The 56-yard drive 
began after a 30-yard kickoff re
turn by Barnyak to the Carengie 
Mellon 44.
Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan-Photo Staff Manager 
Senior linebacker Bob O'Toole takes down a Lycoming opponnent in Saturdays playoff game. The Tartans 
were not able to hold on, however, and lost the game 17-7.
SPheSflHic,
O/Tj/77^.
Jum0
lQres
?nt t0u'UrS
!m<
i
'0/1/
&
F,Orfonare
'^0^rnerfii
'em
The key play of the drive came 
on a second-down carry by 
Barnyak. He picked up five yards 
to the Lycoming 25, but a 
facemask penalty on the tackle 
gave CMU first down at the 13. 
Junior halfback Drew Pizzurro 
scrambled around end for 12 yards 
on the next play, setting up 
Snyders QB sneak.
Clutch defense by both teams 
characterized the rest ofthe game. 
The Tartans bookends, senior 
linebacker Chris Balouris and 
Pielert, knocked down three 
Dougherty passes. Balouris also 
came up with a big interception to 
stop a Warrior drive late in the 
third quarter.
Lycomings first possession of 
the final period stalled at the CMU 
22 as Dougherty was unable to 
find his receivers. After an 
incompletion on fourth-andseven, the Tartans took over and 
began their suspense-filled bid to 
tie the game at 14.
Tartan receivers saved the 
game on more than one occasion. 
On third-and-nine from the CMU 
23, Snyder hit senior receiver 
Wayne Carson for eleven yards. 
Three plays later, faced with a 
third-and-seven from the 37, 
Snyder found senior receiver Don 
DeCaro for eight yards.
Snyder plunged ahead for three 
yards on fourth-and-one from the 
Lycoming 35, keeping the Tartan 
drive going. But on what could be 
considered the biggest defensive 
play of the game, Joe Emrick 
dropped Snyder for a loss of five 
on third down from the 21. With 
fourteen yards to go for a first 
down, Lycomings defense held 
and the Warriors took possession 
with 4:19 left to play.
Wehad third and long-distance 
a lot in that last drive, said 
DeCaro. We came up and made 
them up to that point where we 
had fourth-and-14 and we just 
didnt capitalize.
They out-executed us at that 
point, said Lackner. Their de
fense rose to the occasion and you 
have to give them a lot of credit. 
They did a hell of a job.
The Warriors added a field goal 
with under a minute to go to make 
the final score 17-7. After taking 
over at their own 26, Dougherty 
hit Holloman for 21 yards to
Ignatius Sasmita/Tartari Photo Staff Man! 
Senior quarterback Billy Snyder takes matters into his own hands | 
rushes the ball for some yardage Saturday at Lycoming.
midfield. The completion not only scoring in 175 consecutive g 
gave Lycoming a first down, but it The offense set team single-M 
kept the clock running. son records for total yards v
The key play of the drive was a 4,363, rushing yards with 5:
37-yard run by Cory Sheridan fol
lowing Hollomans reception. 
Sheridan cut to the outside and 
sprinted down the sideline before 
finally being brought down at the 
Tartan 13. Five plays later, John 
Phillips pulled the game out of 
reach as his chip shot field goal 
gave Lycoming a 10-point lead 
with 25 seconds left.
The loss disappointed Tartan 
players and coaches, but nothing 
could diminish the Tartans ac
complishments. The teams 13- 
game winning streak, dating back 
to last season, is the third-longest 
in Division III, second only to 
Daytop. and Williams (21).
All-tblled, the Tartans set 17 
records this season, including the 
NCAA Division III record for
rushing touchdowns with 4( 
first downs with 237. The de 
set team single-season recor 
fewest rushing attempts b 
opponent with' 326, and p 
with 341.
The most impressive recori 
long list of impressive ones 
the teams 10-0 record.
We went 10-0, undefea 
said Lackner. Thats somel 
no other team in Carnegie-Mi 
history has done and it saysj 
about this football team. We 
a remarkable season and? 
got nothing to hang our b 
about.
It was a fantastic season, 
senior defensive lineman Ci 
Rodriguez. Its pretty satisl 
to go out 10-0.
.Classifieds
Housing
Short Term Shady side Inn 
Apartment Suites. Elegantly 
furnished, well appointed, Studio 1 
& 2 bedroom suites, fully 
equipped kitchen. Includes free 
cable (HBO), phone, parking, 
linens. One block to Walnut St. 
shops. From $41 per day, monthly 
basis. Daily, weekly, & monthly 
rates available. 441-4444.
Jobs
Activists, Environmentalists:
Work 3 days a week, 1:30-10:30 
pm, and earn $165-$200 per week. 
Clean Water Action, 765-3053. 
Ask for Dion.
Fast Fundraising Program
$1000 in just one week. Earn up to 
$1000 for your campus organiza
tion. Plus a chance at $5000 more! 
This program works! No invest
ment needed. Call 1-800-932- 
0528, ext. 50.
Club leaders for Young Judaea. 
Responsible, resourceful, creative, 
like working with children. 
September to April employment, 
Sunday afternoon meetings. Salary 
& expenses. Call YJ. Regional 
Office 521-4877.
Fortino & Associates, Inc. 
announces a unique marketing 
research internship opportunity. 
This internship will expand upon 
startling lifestyle statistics for
merly published in Newsweek. 
Premiere. Business Week. USA 
Today, and highlighted on The
Tonight Show and all three national 
news networks. Interested students 
are urged to attend the next meeting 
on Wednesday, November 21st, from 
5 pm to 6 pm in room 110 of Mervis 
Hall (University of Pittsburgh 
campus).
Student interns will help in survey 
design, observation, analysis, and 
interviewing of corporate directors.
In addition to substantial experience, 
interns will receive a highly impres
sive portfolio piece and highlight to 
their resumes. College credit may 
also be awarded. For more informa
tion contact Lynn Cassella at 344- 
8805 or 682-3955.
Healthy Women - ages 18  37 (34 
for smokers) needed for oral contra
ceptive study at Magee-Womens 
Hospital. One year commitment. 
Reimbursement. For details call 647- 
4259 (Mon  Fri).
Services
Wake n Bake!! Spring Break in 
Jamaica/Cancun from $429.00!! 
Organize group travel free!! Early 
birds get free T-shirt! 1-800-426- 
7710.
Parties *** Parties *** Parties 
We have everything for your party at 
Papermart  One Stop Party 
Shopping. Stroll down Morewood 
Avenue to Baum Boulevard. Theme 
decorations. Lots of fun doodads and 
fantastic la-de-dah. Gag gifts and 
Fake vomit. Great greeting cards. 
681-8900.
***Low Student Fares***AYH 
Passes***EuiailPasses***TravelBooks***
All to be found at Forum Trave 
Visit us at 4608 Winthrop St. (o 
South Craig) or call us at 681 
4099.
Miscellaneous
Adoption  Mamed profes
sional couple (shes CMU grad) 
want baby to love. Counseling, 
expenses available. Legal, 
confidential. Call collect: 
(412)885-2470.
Having a baby? ... or know 
someone who is? Maybe they re 
not ready for parenthood right 
now. Private adoption can offer 
an intimate and personal alterna 
tive. It gives the birth mother M 
chance to meet and know us. a 
happily married couple looking 
forword to hot chocolate, bedn 
stories, good night kisses, and 
trips to the zoo.
We can offer emotional 
support and a cozy place to sta) 
needed. We can legally pay 
medical expenses. Were friend 
and easy to talk with, so call 
collect anytime (412)421-895
For Sale
Neon beer signs 
$100.00 and up. Call
__new and o'
422-9360
Please send Classifieds to 7
Tartan, Box 17, Carnegie
Mellon University, Pittsbvft 
PA 15213. Call 268-21UI1 
more information.

---------------------------------------------------

literature fi / design
Vol. 12 No.3
r
T her 
wielnro

---------------------------------------------------

Now that election day is long gone, the truth can finally be told. I was offered the 
nomination for governor, but I turned it down. Don't get me wrong  I would have been 
proud to serve the people of the great Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. When they said I 
would have to miss my last semester of school, it didnt bother me. I didnt even mind 
when they said I'd have to move to Harrisburg. But when they told me I'd have to stop 
editing Dossier, that's where I drew the line. Jesse Helms even volunteered to replace 
me, but I could not be swayed. This job means more to me than any amount of money, 
fame, or political clout. Maybe it's corny, but I love each and every one of you readers, 
and I would never betray your faith. Im here for the long haul.
Speaking of recent elections, I wanted to congratulate our design editor, Chris 
Shields, on winning the Ugliest Man on Campus contest. Needless to say, were all very 
proud of him. You know, a lot of literary magazines settle for less. Their design editors 
are kind of plain-looking, or if youre lucky, a bit on the homely side. But that's not good 
enough for Dossier. We wanted not only the ugliest design major, but the ugliest guy 
around. Hands down. Its just part of our commitment to excellence.
I know a lot of you are going home for Thanksgiving, and I wanted to pass along a 
suggestion for a new holiday tradition. Why not sit around with your family, and take turns 
reading aloud from Doss/e/? Imagine the glow on little Billys face as he hears his very 
first experimental poetry. But that's not all you can do with Dossier over the holiday 
season. It makes a fine gift for all ages. And Its also good for kindling.
In all seriousness, 1 couldn't pick a finer issue for you to share with your family. 
This time around, we've got adultery, murder, alcohol abuse, and a Notary Public. Our 
featured topic this month is death-crazed weasels, so I hope you've all had your shots.
This is our last issue of the semester, so I want to take this opportunity to wish 
all of you the happiest of holidays. I hope your winter breaks are all relaxing, fun, and 
memorable. So thanks for reading, and well see you In a couple of months. And remem
ber, 1991 is not just a new year it's a palindrome.
Jack Silbert
If you have any short stories, don't send them to us. We'll be gone for awhile. But I do 
encourage you to enter Playboys College Fiction Contest. First prize is $3000, and 
publication of your story in the October, 1991 Playboy. Submit an original, unpublished 
story, maximum length 25 typed pages (double spaced). The contest Is open to all 
college students, regardless of age. Send your manuscripts and a 3" x 5 card with your 
name, address, telephone number, and college affiliation to Playboy, College Fiction 
Contest, 680 N. Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, IL 60611. Deadline is January 1, 1991.
To our friend Todd: Good luck in the Middle East. We'll be thinking about you, big fella.
Literary Editor: Jack Silbert 
Design Editor: Chris Shields
 1990 The Tartan. All rights reserved. Dont blame me or Jack, we didn't do it.

---------------------------------------------------

October 7thr1990
words: John Vresilovic 
image: Joe LaRoche
Overhaul
words: Kathy Massucci 
image: Hans Wang
Stick Figure Killer
words: Christopher Thomas 
image: Penny Yao
On Dancing for a Blind Man with Somebody Else's Boyfriend (a sonnet)
words: Jan Ruocco 
image: Melissa Kingman
Angelo's
words: Frank Nepa 
image: Christopher Shields
The City of Three and a Half People
words: Michael Woodring 
image: Patricia Hood
How to Rent an Office, an Address, a Secretary Around the World
words: Chuck Ludinsky 
image: Gerard Zeller

---------------------------------------------------

October 7th, 1990
I woke up naked, seeing things in a haze
even after I found my glasses, a sour taste in my throat
blood pounding in my head, making it throb like a siren.
Joe called to tell me what a great time I had this morning, 
after midnight, after I showed the bartender my drivers license 
and he bought me a drink
after another, and another, and another
after my memory shut down, leaving only blackness
w'here eight hours should have been.
He said I called a waitress Morticia
and tried to kiss her arm like Gomez. He told me I sang
the Addams Family song as they forced us out.
He told me we drove out to the boonies 
and drank most of a fifth hed bought earlier 
toasting each other, singing, bitching
Fuck dormitories, fuck meal plans, fuck midterms!
laughing, promising to do this every weekend we both were home.
He laughed telling it all again, and I laughed too, forgetting
how 1 felt. But when I went downstairs my mother was waiting
to jar my memory. She showed me the black scar
of vomit on the living room carpet, the stinking heap of clothes
the sparkling pile of emeralds that used to be a vase.
Then, with that siren wailing in my head, those green shards 
of glass cutting into my eyesthen 1 could remember
driving to a bar to pick up my father when I was seventeen 
sitting on a stool next to him while he finished his beer 
listening to him bitch about the coal mines. Then I could remember
looking at the green and amber bottles on a shelf behind the bar 
thinking they looked like the towers of some fantastic city 
promising myself I would never join him there.
John Vresilovic

---------------------------------------------------

overhaul
Kathy Massucci
My mother is having an affair with Mr. 
Levinson, our next door neighbor. From 
where I'm sitting, in my nightgown, on the 
window seat in front of the new dining room 
windows, I can see him out on his lawn 
mower. He rides aimlessly, cutting back and 
forth over the lanes of already trimmed 
grass. In contrast, our lawn looks like a 
bullseye; concentric circles of inch high grass 
ripple out from the birdbath in the center of 
the yard. My father is also out working in the 
yard. He is down in our vegetable bed, 
weeding and swearing at the hedgehogs and 
rabbits who are getting fat on our zucchini.
To him, and to the Carduccis in the garden 
on the other side of Mr. Levinson's badly 
shorn lawn, Mr. Levinson must look pitifully 
distracted, a man who has just lost his wife. 
To me, he looks drunk.
Mrs. Levinson left a week and a half ago, 
sunglasses on, a schnauzer under each arm.
I came home from my boyfriend, Max's 
house at nine that night, to find Mr. Levinson 
embracing my mother in the kitchen. They 
parted when I came in, and Mr. Levinson put 
a big white hanky up to his face.
"What's up?" I asked, suspiciously. I didn't 
like the look of it.
"Mrs. Levinson's gone, Kristen/' my mother 
said. She looked at him with concern and 
put her hand on his shoulder.
"Yeah," I said, confused, "we saw her go." 
We'd watched her through the new kitchen 
bay window while we ate dinner. By the 
time Teddy and I started clearing off the 
.table, she had finished packing her Mercedes 
with tan leather suitcases. We'd all thought 
she was headed for their condo in Florida. I 
wondered why she had Daisy and Dixie with 
her; Dixie was toothless, Daisy had bowel 
troubles. I wouldn't take them anywhere, but 
then, I hate schnauzers, Daisy and Dixie in 
particular.
"No, Kristen, I mean, gone," my mother said 
meaningfully. Mr. Levinson's shoulders 
shuddered.
"Oh," I tried to sounfl like I understood.
"I'm sorry." I started to take plastic off one 
of the new barstools to sit down, but Mom 
jerked her thumb at the door, telling me to 
please clear out. I raised my eyebrows at her 
and went to find my father.
I .expected him to be lying down in their 
bedroom. He'd.been doing a lot of that 
lately, tired from the endless remodeling.
We were all pretty tired of the remodeling. 
The house had been a complete disaster area
for months. Dad had been threatening for 
years to take time off from work and redo this 
or that make the ceilings higher, the rooms 
larger, the house bigger. This particular 
spring he finally went ahead and gave the 
house a complete overhaul, knocking down 
and punching through walls. Lucky me, I 
chose to spend the summer at home instead 
of at school in Philadelphia where all I'd have 
to worry about is coming up with rent money 
and not getting mugged. Here, the ceiling 
could fall in on my head or I could asphyxiate 
in my sleep.
Everybody's put out about it. For instance, 
Ted, my brother, who is sixteen and a year 
younger than me, is allergic to paint fumes. 
They make his acne flare up. My room got a 
skylight, so for two weeks I slept on the couch 
in the game room because of all the rubble, 
not to mention the big hole in the middle of 
my ceiling, with nothing but a sheet of clear 
plastic keeping out the rain and the mosqui
toes. My mother is allergic to everything, 
especially dust, so she's been using "her 
money" to stay in a motel and is never 
around. All the major changes are complete, 
though. Just a little paint here and there, 
some new slipcovers, blinds for all the new 
windows, and maybe we'll be back to normal.
My father was right where I expected him to 
bein the bedroom watching an old John 
Wayne movie. He was sitting with his back 
against the headboard of the bed, wearing a 
sweatshirt and sweatpants and slippers.
Dad's really cool. He's my stepfather, but he 
and my Mom have been married since Teddy 
and I were little. My real father lives two 
hundred miles away in Connecticut. He 
sends me rent money now and then, and 
cards on our birthdays. You can't really count 
on it, he only does it when he feels paternal.
"Mr. Levinson's in the kitchen" I said, 
looking at the T.V. I never get to watch T.V. 
at school. John Wayne had some woman by 
the shoulders. He picked her up and threw 
her into a wagon. "What's this?" I asked.
"John Wayne, The Quiet Man."
"Who's that?" I asked, indicating the woman. 
"What's he doing to her?"
"Are you going to start that again? No. Go 
away." He folded his arms. I have this bad 
habit of showing up in the middle of 
the plot and asking a lot of questions, 
demanding a summary. Everybody hates it.
"Manny Levinson's in the kitchen," I began 
again.
"Oh, yeah? What's he want?"
I took off my jacket and put the car keys on 
their bureau. I flopped down on the corner 
of the bed. "Julia's'gone.'" I matched 
Mom's emphasis on "gone."
My father made a face and waved the subject 
away.
"I'm not kidding," I said. "Gone."
He looked at me quizzically. "What do you 
mean, dead?"
"I don't know. I was hoping you knew." I 
made myself comfortable and looked at the 
T.V. The movie was on again. "So who's 
that woman? Why's he so mad?"
"No," my father said. "Go away. Go find 
out what's going on." He pushed me in the 
back with his foot.
"Aw, Dad." I hauled myself up.
I went into the kitchen again. It was begin
ning to get dark, but through the storm door 
I could see my mother and Mr. Levinson out 
on the porch. I watched them embrace and 
part. She said something to him and he 
nodded at her. I walked over and flipped on 
the porch spotlights. They grimaced and 
shielded their eyes at the sudden burst of 
light.
"Whoa, sorry," I said, opening the storm 
door a crack. "Didn't see you."
They parted and Mr. Levinson trudged 
across the side yard to his property. He 
went across his patio and flopped down in a 
lawn chair. He buried his head in his hands.
My mother came inside.
"What's going on?" I demanded.
"Isn't it sad? They'd been married for thirty 
five years, almost."
"Is she dead?" I asked.
My mother looked at me like I was a com
plete idiot.
"She isn't dead, then?"
"Kristen. Honestly," she said 
disapprovingly, and changed the subject. 
"What do you think of the barstools?" she 
asked, beginning to take the plastic off the 
seats. The barstools were that nice light 
wood with green seats. The whole kitchenthe whole house, practically-was absolutely 
pristine, all white with brass fixtures and that 
light wood here and there for knobs and 
handles and hooks and things like that.
"Is the kitchen done?" I asked.
"All but accessories." She looked around. It 
was gargantuan. My father had knocked out 
the wall between the kitchen and dining 
room to make a bar/ counter type thing. She 
set the barstool down in front of the counter. 
"Do you like the ivy, or should we try that 
nice blush?"
The problem with my mother and all the 
remodeling was that, to her, nothing was 
green or yellow or pink or blue anymore. It 
was ivy and saffron and blush and lake.
"Green is fine. W^hat's going on with Mr. 
Levinson?" I asked, sitting on the barstool.

---------------------------------------------------

"I'm not kidding, did she just leave him or is 
she dead or what?"
"She left him. She wants a divorce."
"Wow. No kidding. That's wild."
"Wild?" She looked at me disapprovingly. 
"It's very sad, Kristen. I don't want you 
mentioning it to him. Manny's very upset."
I couldn't imagine Manny and Julia Levinson 
fighting. First off, they were absolutely 
loaded. Money grew out of their pine trees. 
They had about a million grandchildren, all 
smiling from silver frames from every corner 
of the house. The Levinsons had big parties 
out in the yard: weddings, anniversaries, 
celebrations for people in Mr. Levinson's 
company, all with a lot of dancing and 
singing, lawn torches and little white lights in 
the trees, a whole mess of little kids to trip 
over. The/d have big trucks come in the day 
after and take away all the debris and then 
they'd bring all the leftover food over to us. 
Mrs. Levinson spent a gold mine on clothes, 
and she gave us a lot of things. I got a prom 
gown from her, a couple of sequined sweat
ers, stuff not quite my taste, but stuff I knew 
was really expensive. I liked her. The only 
thing I couldn't stand were her precious 
Daisy and Dixie, the moron schnauzers that 
barked at anything-fog, the hose, falling 
leaves, cars passing on the street.
"Why? I mean, what did it? Wh/d she take 
off?" I picked at the tile on the counter top.
"I don't know that, honey, and I don't think 
it's my place to ask. Don't pick."
"He was all over you just now," I said 
sternly, and then in a much lower tone, "you 
tell him to watch it."
She rolled her eyes at me. My mother is still 
pretty young looking, even for forty. She 
puts a rinse over her grey and uses a lot of 
Este^ Lauder face creams to keep her skin 
from wrinkling. It seems to be working so 
far. Men seem to think Mom's good looking, 
but as far as Manny Levinson's looks go, 
well, let's just say he might have been hot 
stuff at one time. Years ago.
She began fixing the coffee pot for the next 
morning. "Kristen, when do you plan to get 
your hair cut? It looks terrible."
I scowled. I was trying to let my hair grow to 
my waist. It had barely cleared my 
shoulderblades. You'd think I was a guy the 
way my mother always harped about my 
hair being too long or my clothes being too 
sloppy.
"I'm supposed to have long hair. I'm a girl."
"Well, at least get the rest of that old perm 
cut off. That's the ugliest hairstyle I've ever 
seen. 1 don't know why you insist on looking 
like you just crawled out of bed. Why don't 
you get a nice smooth bob like mine?"
I looked at her nice smooth bob. "It's too 
cute."
She pointed her finger at my nose. "I want 
you to get a haircut tomorrow."
"Tough. I don't have any money."
She looked shocked. "What happened to all 
the money your father sent you for the 
summer? Don't you dare tell me that it's all 
gone." Her voice was getting louder and 
louder. My mother never shouts, she 
reasons.
"He didn't send any. Again." I thought that 
emphasizing the "again" would allow us 
some camaraderie and take the heat off me; 
my mother gets really mad at my father's 
unreliability.
Mom's voice dropped and she looked 
surprised. "He didn't? That's strange."
"Strange? Try'typical.' He didn't send Ted 
any, either."
Mom looked at me long and hard. "All right. 
I'll give you some money. But you better get 
your hair cut."
I pulled all my hair over one shoulder. It had 
turned a lighter shade of blonde in places 
from the sun. The ends were all splitting. 
"I'm not promising."
"You get some new shoes, too. Where's 
Ted?"
"I think he's at that Michelle's house."
She made a face. "When's he going to date 
a sixteen year old who looks like she's 
sixteen? This Michelle looks like she's thirtyfive."
Ted walked into the kitchen just then, looking 
mad. "Why do you keep calling her 'this 
Michelle' and 'that Michelle?"'
Mom put the coffee away and headed for her 
bedroom. "Because we didn't know you 
could hear us." She went into her bedroom 
and closed the door. She was sleeping at 
home again now that the remodeling was 
finished.
I told Ted about the Levinsons. He wasn't 
too surprised.
"It's those stupid dogs." He got milk from 
the fridge and poured himself a huge 
glassful. "But I'm psyched," he said, "lean 
come in after midnight now without waking 
up Mom and Dad and everybody else in the 
neighborhood. Wait. Where the hell is the 
fridge? I just had it a second ago." He 
opened up the new spice cupboard. We'd 
gotten one of those cool refrigerators that 
looks like the other cabinets.
I pointed. "It's just weird, Ted. He and Mom 
were, like, holding each other."
"You're kidding," he said. He put away the
milk and looked like he was going to tell me I 
was full of it. But then he stopped and said 
thoughtfully, "You know what's even 
weirder?" He lowered his voice. "I think Mr. 
Levinson followed me to the motel last time I 
drove Mom over."
I gave him a who-are-you-trying-to-kid look.
"No, I'm serious," he said dramatically. He 
took a sip of his milk and leaned on the 
counter. "That was the night Dad had 
painted the trim in the hallway, so she let me 
stay with her." He sat on the barstool next to 
me. "I'm driving and I see this car behind 
me in the rear view mirror, and I don't really 
think much of it until I turn off Pine Hollow 
and onto Silver Lane. It turns, too. So I start 
watching it. It follows me all the way out to 
route sixty. So I keep an eye on it and we go 
all the way out to the Red Roof and it goes 
next door and parks at Denny's. Me and 
Mom get out and I watch the car and I notice 
that it's the Levinsons' BMW. He sits there 
for a minute waiting for me to leave, and 
then when I don't and I just stand there, he 
takes off. What do you think about that?"
I wanted to tell Ted he was full of crap, that 
Mr. Levinson was probably after a snack at 
Denny's and found it closed, but somehow I 
could see it. It was weird, ludicrous, the idea 
that Mr. Levinson and my Mom...but fasci
nating, all the same.
The next couple of days were even more 
unusual. One afternoon, I heard Mom 
fighting on the phone with somebody. Max 
and I were going to a picnic that evening and 
I was in the laundry room washing out my 
linen shorts. Dad and Ted weren't home 
from work yet and I think she thought I had 
already gone out.
"No, I can't meet you, I'm not around here 
enough as it 8. People are going to start to 
talk." Her voice was unsteady.
I stopped swishing my shorts around the 
laundry tub.
"I can't. What will Kristen and Ted think?"
I stuck my head out the door and looked into 
the game room. My mother was on the 
other side of the room, near the stairs, her 
back to me.
"I'm sorry. No. Look, there's too much 
confusion around here as it is. Now that the 
house is done, I can't justify all the running 
around anymore."
No way, I thought. Listen to her. She's 
really screwing Mr. Levinson. I had a sudden 
vivid image of Mr. Levinson running his 
fingers through my mother's nice, smooth 
bob. Gross, just gross. I suddenly worried 
about myself. I didn't want to get caught 
eavesdropping.
"Mom?" I hollered. "Is that you?"
"Oh, God," she said. "Kristen's in the other 
room."

---------------------------------------------------

"What?" I yelled, "Mom?"
"Yes, honey! It's me!" She hung up.
She walked into the laundry room. She was 
wearing a red suit and big sunglasses.
"Hi, Mom. I thought I heard somebody out 
there, but I thought it might be the T.V. I 
thought you were at work."
"No, it's me." She leaned over and kissed 
me on the cheek. She looked into the 
laundry tub. "What did you do to your good 
shorts?"
"I fell and got a big grass stain on my butt. 
I'm really mad."
She put her hands on her hips and sighed as 
though 1 were absolutely pathetic. "Can't 
you keep anything clean?"
I scowled hard. "I guess not. I guess I really 
can't be trusted with anything."
She looked sad. She took off her sunglasses 
and shook her head. "I'mI'm sorry,
Kristen, I don't want a fight. I don't want to 
fight with you." She put a cautious hand on 
my shoulder. We blinked at each other.
"You okay?" I asked, hesitantly.
Tm...much better." She blinked, turned to 
leave the room. "Now that the house is just 
about done, I mean."
Ted heard her on the phone again the next 
night. Mom and Dad had been downtown at 
some big dinner thing for his company, and I 
was at a party with Max. Ted and Michelle 
had been at the house watching T.V., but 
Michelle had to be home at eleven. Ted 
drove her home, and when he returned,
Mom was in the kitchen on th phone. He 
tried to be very quiet, and he heard her say 
that she was alone for a little while, but that 
everybody would be home soon and that she 
couldn't do anything that night.
"I should punch his face in." Teddy would 
punch the whole world's face in if he could. 
"That old fart. Make me sick."
"I don't get it," I said. The lights were off 
and Ted was lying next to me on my bed.
The moon came in through the new skylight.
I rolled over and looked at him. "Why 
wouldn't she just go next door and talk to 
him?"
"She's smart. I'd know for sure something 
was up if I saw her walking back from next 
door."
"Well, where was Dad? What does he think 
of all this?"
"He doesn't know. She left him downtown. 
She said she felt sick so she took a cab 
home."
"Why didn't she just call Mr. Levinson?" I 
asked bitterly. "He could have come down
and picked her up in his BMW."
"The pervert."
"Thesick-o."
The next day, I told Max about it. I needed 
his opinion. We sat out on the patio and I 
confided in him. While we talked, Mr. 
Levinson came outside and began watering 
his garden rather absently.
"Your mom?" Max laughed. "You're 
kidding."
"Maxi No," I said coldly. "I'm not kidding."
"Who would want to screw around with your 
mom?" He laughed harder.
"Well, my dad for one. I don't think it's very 
funny, Max. What should I do? I mean-1 
don't want to do anything, but I feel like I 
should do something."
He settled down a little after he noticed my 
expression. "Why don't you ask her? Come 
right out and ask for details."
"Oh, good," I said sarcastically. "How? 'So 
tell me. Mom, how's Mr. Levinson in the 
sack? He as good as he looks?'" We both 
looked down the yard at balding Mr. 
Levinson. He was wearing a white T-shirt, 
Bermuda shorts, navy dress socks, and golf 
shoes. His belly hung over the waistband of 
his shorts. Max laughed and laughed until he 
choked. I had to pound him on the back.
Anyhow, Mom took lemonade over to him 
yesterday and Ted timed her. She was over 
there for three hours. When she finally got 
back we couldn't confront her because then 
it was dinnertime and Dad was around. It 
was a Friday and Ted was mad because it 
was his day off and Mom made him cut the 
grass. He went out on the riding mower 
without a shirt and got sunburn all over his 
face and neck and back.
"That's it," Ted said, storming into the 
kitchen, all red.
"What'sit?" I was mad, too. While Ted was 
mowing the lawn, I was washing the zillion 
new windows.
"There I am, slaving over the lawn, and she 
takes him lemonade."
"You're getting sunburned."
"Thanks, Einstein," he paced around the 
kitchen, waving his arms, "I look like a fire 
engine, any idiot could see I'm getting 
sunburn. And where's Mom? Where's 
'you're gonna get skin cancer, put sunscreen 
on, you forgot a hat, poor baby, come inside 
we'll get you some of that aloe?' I'll tell you. 
She's out doinking the neighbors."
I raised my eyebrows at him.
"You see this?" He pointed at his back. "Did 
she notice? No, she's too busy making 
lemonade for her boyfriend, she can't take
out the time to see if her son needs first aid.
I didn't put on any sunscreen on purpose to 
see if she'd remind me, and did she? No. 
Hero I am, out there-it takes, like, four hours 
to cut that lawn, did you know that? Do 1-get 
any lemonade? Does she bring out one of 
those stupid plant leaves full of goo to smear 
all over me? No, she runs next door-"
"You are a complete dork," I told him. "Just 
because you forgot to wear a shirt does not 
mean Mom has forgotten all about you. As a 
matter of fact, she came in here and told me 
that if you were still stupid enough to go 
running around without sunscreen after all 
the times you've gotten sunburn, she was 
not going to feel sorry for you." I dragged 
him to Mom's sprawling aloe plant in the 
living room and smeared aloe all over his 
back. "At least the sun will clear up your 
zits," I told him.
"Go to hell, Kristen."
So now it's Saturday. We decided to 
confront her today, but she's out shopping. 
She's been 'out shopping' every other day, 
and she never seems to have any packages 
when she gets back. I think she's meeting 
him somewhere else, maybe some other 
motel, one you get by the hour.
But then again, she can't be meeting him 
today, he's out there on the mower. It would 
be a real trick, she'd have to be under the 
steering wheel, all curled up in a ball. I try to 
picture this. It doesn't seem too absurd an 
idea. After days of carrying.around the 
disgusting image of Mom in bed with old Mr. 
Levinson, I could believe anything, I think.
Ted got his senior picture taken this morn
ing. It was a nightmare getting him ready. 
Mom wasn't around and he was being really 
pissy about what he wanted to wear and 
how he Wanted to look. His hair didn't want  
to stay right and we had to use Mom's coverup to even out the sunburn on his face. I 
ironed a couple of shirts for him and tried to 
pick out nice ties, until finally I got fed up and 
sent him off on his own.
"If you see Mom," Ted snarled, starting to 
sweat in his dress shirt, "tell her I said 
'thanks for nothing.'"
Neither of us are comfortable with her 
anymore. I mean, I was never too comfort
able with her, anyway. She's too vain and 
she only talks to me so she can complain 
about how I look.
She explained away the three hours at Mr. 
Levinson's. He was showing her pictures, 
she said, pictures of Julia as a young 
woman. "For three hours?" mouthed Ted to 
me. He rolled his eyes. We both looked at 
her pityingly. Who did she think she was 
fooling? She looked hot and rumpled when 
she came home. It made me want to gag, 
thinking about it. Ew.
I look around the room. I can't get over how 
huge it looks. Everything's really white, now.

---------------------------------------------------

Almost stark. I pull my knees up to my chest 
and look out into the yard. A rabbit shoots 
out of the vegetable bed and my dad heaves 
the rake after it. I laugh. I love him very 
much right this minute. I have the urge to 
trot down to the garden and ask him to hug 
me. He looks very friendly, very sunny and 
smart I want to tell him about Mom, let him 
know what she's doing, explain that Teddy 
and I love him and that we'll stay with him 
even if he wants to send Mom to live next 
door-TII even stay home from .school and 
cook for them. At the same time, I want to 
protect him from this knowledge, because I 
think he's above such senseless and childish, 
not to mention completely tasteless, behav
ior.
"Kristen?" My mother is home. I know I'm 
going to get chewed out because it's after 
one and I'm not dressed. I turn away from 
the window to watch her. She puts two 
brown bags down on the new counter.
"What are youare you picking your nose?"
My mouth falls open. "No, I am not picking 
my nose. What kind of a question is that?
I'm biting my nails." I don't know why I am 
surprised by such an outrageous question.
"Oh." She begins unloading the bag of 
groceries. "Well, you looked like you were 
picking your nose. Are you ever going to get 
dressed? It's almost two." She's wearing a 
pretty white sundress which makes her look 
very tan and she has her hair up in a bun. I 
imagine her picking out the sundress, 
knowing he will see her in it and then take it 
off of her.
"I'm going to right now." I realize how sour I 
sound. "I was on my way."
She points to the bathroom and then goes 
back into her bedroom. I go to mine. I swear 
at Teddy. Where the hell is he? With that 
Michelle-girl, probably. I go into my parents' 
bathroom and examine all of mother's 
bottles and tubes in the medicine cabinet. I 
only use her things when I'm mad at her. I 
take a long shower, foaming my body clean 
with perfumed bath gel, sloughing off my 
.dead skin with a paste from one of the jars 
on the side of the big new tub. I shave my 
legs, slather on cream from a gold bottle, 
and then, realizing that my mother's big soft 
robe isn't hanging on its hook, I wrap myself 
in a towel and run down the hall.
Ted is walking up the hall carrying his suit.
He has no shirt on. His back is 5n even 
angrier red than it was yesterday.
"Haw'd it go?" I ask, stopping outside my 
bedroom door. Water runs in streams from 
my hair. "Did you break the lens?"
He glares at me. "Where is she?" he asks, 
walking into my room and putting his suit 
down on my bed. "I've been thinking about 
it more and more," he says, "and the more I 
think about it the madder I get."
"She's in her room. Let me put some clothes 
on, huh?" He picks up his suit and goes into
the other room. I pull on a big loose shirt 
and pair of shorts and go into his room with 
the towel around my head. "You're ready to 
talk?" I ask. I hope he is. I don't know if I
am.
He hesitates for a minute and then nods.
"Mom," I call, giving a knock on her door. 
There's no answer. We enter.
She isn't there and I feel enormous relief.
We look around the bedroom.
"She was just here about fifteen minutes 
ago." I look at the top of her dresser where 
she keeps all of her makeup and notice that it 
seems pretty empty.
We walk to the kitchen and look out into the 
yard. Dad and Mr. Levinson are standing 
together. Mom is nowhere in sight. Dad is 
making wide, sweeping gestures at the lawn.
I figure he must be telling Mr. Levinson his 
dreams of building a waterfall and fish pond 
someday now that his house is finished.
"Is her car in the garage?" I ask Ted.
Ted nods. "It was when I came in. That's it. 
I'm going to go ask Dad where she is right in 
front of Levinson." He runs down the stairs.
I watch from the window as Mr. Levinson 
pats my Dad on the back and then heads 
back over to his yard just as Ted reaches 
them.
I go back to the bedroom. Her Chanel No. 5 
is missing from the dresser. I open up the 
dresser and look into the drawer where she 
keeps her underwear, shut it, and look into 
herclo8et. Both are almost empty. I walk 
back out to the kitchen but Ted and my Dad 
have disappeared.
I go into my room to dry my hair while I wait 
for Ted. There, on my desk, shoved between 
the bristles of my hairbrush, is a note. It says 
"Kristen" on it in tiny, neat letters. I pick it 
up and look at it, and then unfold it, heart 
pounding. 1 know it's from my mother, but I 
can't understand why she'd leave me, of all 
people, a note.
Kristen, it say8, I'm going away for a littlo 
while. I don't want you to mention this to 
Teddy or to your Dad. Dad thinks I've gone 
to Erie with Aunt Rose.
"Goddamn it," Ted says, walking past my 
room. "She told Dad she went to Aunt 
Rose's. PfftI I just bet."
I stick the note in the waistband of my shorts. 
"Really? Do you believe that?" I ask.
Ted throws his hands up. "Are you kidding? 
She's hiding because she knows we'ro going 
to nail her. Well, forget it," he says, "I don't 
care. Let her do whatever the hell she wants. 
She can go over and doink all fourteen of the 
Carducis for all I care. I'm going to 
Michelle's."
I stand in the doorway until he goes
down to the garage, then 1 look at the note 
again.
I've gone off for a couple of days with your 
dad. Impossible, I think, he's right outside. 
He'd have mentioned it. I read further.
Not your stepdad, your real dad. I gasp. 
Impossible.
We bumped into each other downtown and, 
well, we've been meeting each other at the 
hotel. I need some time to make up my 
mind about what to do. Don't worry, I'll be 
back in a few days. I'm only telling you this 
so someone will know where to reach me in 
case something should happen. If there is an 
emergency, I wrote his phone number in 
your address book. Take care of Dad and 
Teddy. Call me if you like, but please reverse 
the charges, I don't want anyone to know. I 
love you, sweetheart. We'll talk.
-Mom.
I study her handwriting for a couple of 
minutes. They say handwriting tells a lot 
about a person, and I wish that I knew how 
to decode the little swirls and swoops of her 
letters. 1 put the note in the top drawer of my 
desk and pull out my address book. Under 
"W" my mother has written "T. Wick," and 
the phone number. The "T" is for 
"Theodore," my father.
I tell myself that I expected something like 
this, we should have ail expected something 
like this. You can't just take a house and turn 
it upside down and not have something-fall 
out of it.
I walk out into the hallway and look out the 
living room windows. Ted is in the driveway 
arguing with Dad. Dad is holding the hose 
and I suspect he'd rather have Teddy wash 
the car than drive it. In about two weeks, I'll 
be heading back to school. I wonder if my 
mother will come back by then and what Ted 
and Dad will do if she doesn't-if Dad will 
bury his head in his hands and go next door 
to Mrs. Carducci for consolation. I wonder if 
I should stay and take care of them until 
things calm down.
I think about the list of things that 
need to be done today, all the finishing 
touches to the house, the vertical blinds 
ready to be hung in the game room, the 
shelves of the linen closet waiting to be lined 
with nice-smelling paper. I would rather go 
sit out on the patio and watch Mr. Levinson 
mow his lawn in drunken loops. For the first 
time since Julia left, I can understand his 
grief. But then, everybody seems to be 
having a big overhaul in their lives these 
days. We're all a little tired from the remod
eling.

---------------------------------------------------

Stick Figure Killer
Why did I draw a stick man 
waving a bloody knife?
I feel hot from the brimstone 
in his pinpointed eyes.
His frown, so simply 
thin
and cruel 
and unwrinkled,
that I know he's serious
Christopher Thomas
::

---------------------------------------------------

* fi i'Sf-K'u  w 
fi >V .!".! '%
%< ,,v;
* '' >'W vivi tmss&i

---------------------------------------------------

We were at the Sands in Atlantic City, 1958, my father begins. 
"It's three a.m. Me, Louie, and Jimmy Orsinl  remember Jimmy 
Orsini? were in the elevator going to our rooms. We had had a few.
The men on their stools hang on'my father's every word as if they 
are hearing the story for.the very first time.
Jimmy passes out cold, right there in the elevator. Me and Louie 
are too drunk to do him much good so we go to our rooms to sleep it 
off. We leave Jimmy right there on the floor of the elevator.
Right there on the floor of the elevator," seconds Louie, seated at 
the far end of the bar.
So the next morning, we see Jimmy down in the coffee shop, 
looking pretty much the same as the night before. I say to him, Hey 
Jimmy, howd you sleep last night? He says, 'Boy, that room of mine. 
People keptgoin in and out, in and out, all night long.'"
The men at the bar roar with laughter. My father beams. He slaps 
me on the back. We are standing behind the bar, his bar. I spend my 
days like this, pouring drinks, listening to old men tell old stories.
My father is a great storyteller, but most of his stories are set 
before the Kennedy Administration. Sometimes I swore I lived in a 
time warp. I wasnt even thirty yet. I was a college graduate. I found 
it very troubling that I was spending my life cooped up in this bar with 
guys who would often fondly reminisce about their Packards. I needed 
to live a.little with people my own age.
I had reported for work one evening when a call went out for one of 
my fathers old standbys.
Hey, Angelo, Louie shouted, tell the one about the first day you 
opened the joint. My father, never one to let a captive audience 
down, began the story  It was May 1941"  when I Interrupted. 
Dad, Ill bet everyone In this bar has heard this story at least five 
times."
1 think theres a guy over there who hasn't heard it. He pointed 
to a middle-aged man sitting'at one of the small tables outside the 
bar. Excuse me, sir, but have you heard the story of the day I opened 
this place? The man said that he had not, so my father waved him 
over to the bar and began the story again.
May 15, 1941. Im only twenty years old and I open my very own 
bar. I was playin' it up real big, had a jacket and tie on, gladhandin' 
with everybody who walked in. A few hours after I open, in walks this 
girl, sixteen years old, and about the prettiest girl I ever did see.
Thats one thing about me: I can tell a pretty girl when I see one."
That trait was probabiy the only one passed down from father to son. 
She sits right there, he said, pointing to a stool, the whole evening, 
and when I close, we go out and celebrate, if you know what I mean. 
And at the end of the night, I asked that girl to marry me.
Get outta here, said the man hearing the story for the first time.
Its true," my father said, and we were married in a week.
The man looked around. Numerous nodding heads vouched for the 
story's credibility. Thats a great story, said the man. "Did the 
marriage last?
The men who knew the story looked away from my father. The 
ticking of the Seagram's clock above the bar became apparent. My 
father said nothing for a while but finally was able to tell the man that 
his wife had died about a year ago. My father then put a weak smile 
on his face and offered meekly, We had forty-nine years."
Angelos
l> Frank Nepa
"Well, that's terrific, said the man, trying to change the somber 
mood that he had helped to create. And soon you'll have the fiftieth 
anniversary of the bar, right?"
That's right," my father said absently. "What a great day that will 
be."
She walked up to me and she asked me If 1 wanted to dance. 
Actually, she walked up to me and asked me if I knew anything about 
cars. Her car had just broken down outside of the bar, and she had 
managed to drift it into the parking lot. If this were fifty years ago 
maybe she would have sat at my bar stool all evening and we would 
have lived happily ever after, but in reality, she just came In and asked 
the bartender if he could help her fix her car. I know about as much 
about cars as I do about feminine hygiene products.
Sure, I'll help you fix it," I said.
She was the kind of girl whose any request I would have answered 
affirmatively.
We walked out to the parking lot and I took the keys from her, 
intending to try to start the car.
"It's not going to start," she said.
I figured as much, but I was just buying time, planning my next 
move, pooling my knowledge of motor vehicles. I put the key In the 
ignition and turned it. Nothing.
Its not going to start," I said.
I got out of the car and slid underneath it. I stayed under there for 
maybe five seconds, then came out.
It's the alternator," I told her. One of the guys at the bar had 
been saying that he was having trouble with his alternator.
"Don't you need a flashlight or somehing? she said, a reasonable 
suggestion since it was well past midnight.
No. It's definitely the alternator, 1 said, hoping at least that a 
cars alternator was visible from the underside. I'll tell you what.
Your cars safe here. Let me drive you home and somebody can look 
at it in the morning."
If it's no troubleJust let me tell my dad to lock up the place." 1 ran Into the bar.
We walked over to my Jeep and I opened the passenger door for 
her and tucked her coat in so that it would not get caught in the door.
I knew this wasnt an official date but 1 take my rendezvous with 
beautiful women where I can get them. I shut her door and walked 
around to my side. She told me her address and I began the drive, 
enjoying the cool of the evening.
I'm Pam."
"What?
My name. It's Pam. She extended her hand.
"Oh. HI. I shook her hand. "Im Perry."
"Will my car be all right back there?
"Oh, sure."
It's quite an expensive car, you know.
"Really? What kind is it?"
You mean you didn't notice?"
No, not really. I think it was red, though," I said. She smiled. 
"Wasn't it red?"
I like you, Perry.
She liked me because I didn't know what kind of car she had. In 
my defense, it was dark and I had other things on my mind, like not 
embarrassing myself. I am usually not a very observant person 
anyway. I knew it would come In handy.
The next morning Pam called a garage to pick up her Porsche. She 
phoned me to thank me for driving her home.
No problem," I said wittily.
"We should go out sometime," Pam suggested casually.

---------------------------------------------------

I had to pause for a few seconds to allow that to register. "You 
mean me and you?"
Well, If you'd rather not-"
No, no," I interrupted. I wiped my face with a cocktail napkin. I 
mean, yes, yes . . . Lets see ... I work here most of the time ...
We could go to lunch somewhere. You pick the place."
I picked the place. I bet youve never had lunch at the racetrack 
before."
I cant say that I have."
The night before my father's friend, Carmen, had whispered to me, 
"Bebop Deluxe In the fifth, right before he went face down In the 
pretzels, so I decided to take Pam to lunch at the track. A hamburger 
and a Coke for under eight dollars was not bad when considering the 
ambience of the place. We sat down to eat after the results of the 
fifth race were posted. My horse was still running.
I've never been to the horse races before," Pam said. This is 
exciting. I especially like the part when you rip up the little tickets and 
throw them up in the air.
I learned many things from Pam over lunch. I learned that she 
could afford a Porsche because her father owned a chain of steak 
houses along the East Coast. I learned that her mother was a descen
dant of George Washington and that Pam was the youngest of seven 
children. I learned that I had a piece of meat stuck between my teeth.
You're easy to talk to, Pam told me.
Good thing Im a bartender."
"It's your turn to tell me about yourself now."
We bartenders aren't too good at talking, just listening." I had 
never been one to tell people about myself. That could have been 
because most of the people I came Into contact with were hard of 
hearing. I had a trifecta going off In the next race and strained to see 
the monitor. I had no real Intention of telling my life story to Pam no 
matter how pretty she was. Let's watch this race.
You own that bar where you work, dont you?"
Yeah. My father made me a co-owner last year.
What about your mother?"
No, she doesn't own It."
What about your brothers and sisters? Do you have any?"
I walked closer to the monitor partially to see my trifecta come 
home and partially to evade Pam's questioning. The race was fin
ished; the winners posted. I nearly hit the trifecta, except I got three 
of the horses wrong. I ripped up my ticket and sat back down at the 
table. Pam giggled at my reaction to losing the race. I guess she 
never learned that serious gamblers hate to be giggled at.
Well, theres another two dollars I'll never see again, I said trying 
to be seripus. Pam giggled again. I laughed myself.
A few minutes after the question had been asked, I told Pam that I 
had a brother. I doubt Pam even remembered asking the question, but 
for some reason I answered it. Does he live around here? Pam 
asked.
 No. He's a model out in California."
"Your brother's a model?"
Yeah, a male model. Can you believe that? At least the last I 
heard he was a model. He was never one to come around here much. 
The old man hasn't heard from him in five years. Not one word.
Does that make him mad?
It makes me mad. My father cant take care of himself, you know; 
he needs help. I'm the only one around here to do it."
"Well, I'm sure he appreciates it."
"Yeah, well." Some first date, I thought to myself, burdening Pam 
with all of my family problems. It felt good having someone to talk to, 
though. I tried to lighten the mood a bit. "My brother, he got the looks 
in the family. I laughed.
"What did you get?" Pam asked, awaiting the punchline.
I got the Jeep. I smiled and told her that we should be going 
because I had to get to work. I also told her that she was rather easy 
to talk to herself.
It was nine oclock on a Saturday. The regular crowd shuffled In. 
Jitters, the bookie, was trying to drum up some action on the next 
days football games. Boo Boo Williams was trying to drum up some 
action with the two ladles at the end of the bar. Tommy Pasettl limped 
in on his one good leg. I had his Rolling Rock ready for him before he 
finished his struggle with the bar stool. We exchanged hellos as he 
began to read his newspaper.
You see this here, Perry?" he asked me. It says here in the 
paper that some guy broke into a bunch of houses and stole over two 
hundred television sets.
Boy, I said, talk about your couch potatoes."
Tommy must not have heard my feeble attempt at humor or maybe 
he just didnt care for it because he didn't respond, becoming en
grossed In his newspaper. Many of the other customers  as well as 
my father  were watching the Pitt football game on the television set. 
I watched for a couple of minutes but I wasn't much Interested. My 
eyes passed from the TV, around the room, finally settling onto a 
picture on the wall of my father with his arm around Billy Conn, who 
visited the bar many years ago. Conn once fought Joe Louis for the 
heavyweight championship of the world and was ahead on all three 
judges' scorecards until Louis knocked him out in the thirteenth round. 
Despite the loss, Conn was my fathers idol; my father often said that, 
pound for pound, there never lived a better fighter than Sweet William, 
the Flower of the Monongahela. The story goes that when Conn visited 
the bar, he patted me on the head and said that one day I would be 
"champeen" of the world. I was four when this happened and have no 
recollection of It. I never even saw Billy Conn fight. When the subject 
of boxing comes up, I always tell my father that it is doubtful that Billy 
Conn could last five seconds with Mike Tyson. My father invariably 
gets mad, then calmly says, I think youre wrong, and walks away.
"Well, Perry, thanks for the beer. I best be going. Gotta get up for 
church tomorrow.
"Oh." Tommy startled me out of my reverie. "See ya, Tom."
With much effort, Tommy made his way off the stool and out the 
door. Tommy was once a construction worker but injured himself in a 
fall and began collecting disability. His financial troubles had kept him 
from paying his bar bill in quite some time. He knew it, so when he 
stopped by the bar he drank only one or two beers so as not to take 
advantage of my father's generosity. When Tommy left, I called my 
father over.
Im trying to watch this game. I got twenty bones ridln on it. 
Whats so important?
"I just wanted to tell you that Tommy's bill is up over a hundred 
dollars."
"So?"
So? We can't afford all of these freeloader friends of yours.
Were not takin' in that much money as is."
Hey, Tommy's not been dealt the best of hands. He's good for 
the money.
Well, why don't you tell him to stop coming In here until he can 
pay up?"
Why don't I tell him? The guy's been coming in here thirty years. 
All of us guys here are like his family. This is kinda a home to him. 
Why don't you tell him? I don't think you could look that man In the 
eye and tell him to find someplace else to go.
I think I could.
I think you're wrong." He walked away.

---------------------------------------------------

I began to see more of Pam. I began to see all of Pam. A few 
months after we started dating, Pam's parents invited us to their home
for dinner. I had never met her parents before but was not really 
nervous about the encounter. I Was not intimidated when I saw their 
palatial estate, nor was' I intimidated when I saw the fleet of cars in 
their driveway. I was not intimidated until I saw their dining room 
table. I had never seen quite so many forks before. I rarely ate with a 
fork. I rarely ate sitting down. I thought maybe I was In over my head.
"So, Perry, Pam's father said during dinner, we understand that 
you tend bar for a living."
"Actually, I own a bar with my father.
From what I know, saloons can be quite a lucrative business.
Yes they can. We have a bar though.
Pam's father laughed a little louder than I thought was necessary.
I take it that your father never got rich from his work."
No. Just old.
Pam's father laughed again. I was on a roll. That's funny. Pam, 
why didn't you tell me that this boy was funny?
Pam put her arm around me and said, Well, there must be some 
reason that I continue to go out with him.
Did you ever think of doing anything else with your life, Perry?" 
Pam's-mother wanted to know. Pam shot a nasty glance toward her 
mother.
I majored in history in college.
I didn't know you went to college, the three said, almost in 
unison.
Yeah. Notre Dame.
What do you do with a history degree? Pams father asked.
I wanted to be a teacher.
But you never did, he said.
No, I never did.
Why not?
Someone had to stick around and help the old man."
Throughout my life, whenever anyone asked me, in some form or 
another, how a guy with a college degree could pour beers for a living, 
my standard reply was that no matter how much I wanted to get out 
from behind that bar, I could not leave my father to run the place 
himself. When I got out of college, he was sixty-five, my mother had 
been sick for quite a few years, my brother never came around.
Playing the part of the noble son, I gave up my career plans and went 
to work for my dad.
Why not get him to sell, I was often asked. I guess I could have 
tried to convince him to sell the place, but I knew he would never go 
for it. Angelo's was his life. Almost everything that happened to him, 
happened to him because of that bar. I could not Imagine him without 
It.
I told all of these things to Pam's father when, a few weeks after 
our first meeting, he made me an offer to buy the bar. He liked the 
locatlcn and wished to build another of his restaurants there. My 
father wouldn't sell, I told him. The bar's fiftieth anniversary was only 
a few months away, I said. He convinced me to run the idea past him. 
On the drive over to tell my father, I weighed the offer in my mind. 
Selling the place, I decided, would be best for everyone concerned. I 
would be able to pursue a career in teaching, and my father would be 
set financially, no longer having to worry about old cronies who couldn't 
settle their bar tabs. I would not try to force him to sell, but I would 
suggest It. I knew he wouldnt sell.
I think we should sell, my father said.
What?"
Yeah, I've been at this too long. It's time for me to get out."
You don't even know If Its a good offer or not.
Is It a good offer?

---------------------------------------------------

"Yeah, its a pretty good offer.
"I think we should sell."
I was stunned by my fathers cavalier attitude toward selling the 
place. What about all the good times he had here? I wanted to know. 
What about all his old friends who came in here every day? Where 
would they go? What happened to this idea of family?
We can all get together somewhere else, he said. "Perry, Im 
gonna be seventy years old soon. Its too hard for me to go to work 
every day. 
How can you close down all these memories?" I asked. You met 
Mom right over there." I pointed to the stool he always pointed to. 
What would she say about all this?"
You know," he said, your mother always had a good head for 
business. She knew a good deal when she saw one. I think shed 
back me on this one."
I could not believe what I was hearing. I started to grasp for 
anything.
What about Billy Conn? I shouted. Hed be crushed to hear you 
were selling."
"What the hell are you talking about?
"You know how youre always telling people about when Billy Conn 
came in here. I remember. He patted me on the head and said 1 was 
going to be champion of the world."
Boy, that was nearly twenty-five years ago. Billy Conn don't know 
me from Adam."
But you're always telling anyone who will listen how you know 
him."
Ah, that's just bar talk.
Bar talk. My whole life had been bar talk. At this bar. My bar. The 
kind of place where the loser of a championship fight could get a 
hero's welcome, and where two people could look at each other and 
just know they would be married within the week. Who was I kidding?
I was no teacher; I was a listener. I called Pams father and told him 
we would not sell.
I convinced my father that the decision not to sell was the right 
thing to do. I said that I would take over more of the responsibility of 
running the bar, allowing him to work only when he pleased. I con
ferred on him the title of bartender emeritus; he said that he didn't 
know what that meant but It sounded good to him. I told him of the 
plans I had for the fiftieth anniversary of Angelos, plans that, If the 
truth be told, I had been working on for quite some time.
What other changes do you have mind for my bar? he asked.
Well, I have these pictures of Mike Tyson. .
Tommy Pasetti hobbled In one afternoon, newspaper under one 
arm. I poured him a beer that he wouldn't have the money to pay for. 
Hey, Tommy, whaddaya got there?
I got me the Weekly World News here. You should see some of 
these stories, Perry. Like this one here: "Siamese Twins Hate Each 
Others Guts."
"Geez, Tommy, I said, "they actually have each others guts, don't 
they?"
Tommy didn't answer me. He wasn't listening. As I watched him 
bury himself In his newspaper, I realized that my father had been right. 
In the end, 1 dont think I could look Tommy in the eye and tell him to 
find someplace else to go. I couldnt tell myself that either. I winked 
at Pam who was sitting on a bar stool, maybe for the rest of the 
evening.

---------------------------------------------------

The City of Three and a Half People
Michael Woodring
The policeman pulls the tip 
of his greasy mustache 
and tries to burn holes 
through the teen-aged couple. 
He eyes the girls plaid 
skirt, the purple scars 
of rouge on her cheeks.
Her man is Italian 
and bleary-eyed. He is a red 
Brooklyn t-shirt and a thin chain 
necklace that was bought 
from Weiss Discount.
A Marlboro Light smolders 
between his thick lips.
In this scene
they do not have enough
eyes to notice
the Notary Public
at the corner of Staton
and M Street
or the man who is dressed 
in cold fish flesh.
He is walking towards them.

---------------------------------------------------

Chuck Ludinsky
HOW TO RENT AN OFFICE, AN ADDRESS, A SECRETARY 
AROUND THE WORLD
Mexico: The usual 10% to 15% is expected at restaurants. 
Give gas station attendants, theater ushers, and 
valets the current price of a beer; give tour 
guides, hairdressers, and manicurists the current price 
of two beers. Leave taxi drivers any small change.
Uruguay: April 19 Landing of the 33 Patriots
Barbados: Ronald Reagan has vacationed there.
Anti-Jet Lag Diet: On the first of four days, have a high protein 
breakfast and lunch, and a high carbohydrate 
dinner. On the second of four days, have only salads, 
light soups, fruits and fruit juices. Repeat the cycle.
Austria: Austria is a land-locked nation in the heart 
of Europe.
New Zealand: January 2 Second Day in January
The Arab World: Hold the cup with your right hand; the left 
is considered unclean. If your host wants you to stay 
longer, he will repeatedly urge you to remain.
Congo: The government struggles with a lack of capital.
Thailand: May 5 Royal Ploughing Ceremony
Japan: In a recent poll, a group of Japanese had 
been asked what had given them the most happiness 
in life. More than half of them had answered: 
"Disneyland."
China: It's easy to get looped on mai-tai, and this is when 
business may be brought up. If youre in no condition 
to talk shop, beg off. Chinese usually won't press.
Bhutan: November 11-13 Birthday of His Majesty 
King Wangchuck
8AREAD0S
JAPAN
MEXICO
URUt
AUSTRIA
NEW ZEALAND
CONGO
rTHAILAND
BHUTAN

---------------------------------------------------

Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
- ,#The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania19 November 199C |
Dedicated parents show diehard spirit
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Staffwriter
For some Carnegie Mellon parents, 
Saturday means much mofe than relax
ing liter a hard week of workit means 
driving, sometimes hundreds of miles, to 
watch their sons play football. Billy 
Snyder, a senior IDS major, and the 
Tartans starting quarterback, and Don 
D'fiCaro, also an IDS senior and a Tartan 
wide receiver, have both been fortunate 
feiiough to have their parents attend all 
ofthe teams games this year, both home 
and away.
J The Snyders, who live over 300 miles 
away in Phillipsburg, New Jersey, have 
! attended all of Billys games for the past 
t jwo years,and all the home games since 
his freshman year but this year was 
Undoubtedly the best. Said Mr. Snyder, 
.Weve had a lot of laughs, and this year 
f everything has been positive, so there 
just havent been too many downsides. 
The Snyders most exciting moments 
this year came when the team completed 
its undefeated regular season and when 
Billy set the Division III national record 
for the most consecutive pass comple; tions in a single game. Hes put a lot of 
| time and effort into his football, and to 
I see him achieve something that gained 
\ him national recognition had to be the 
[ highlight of the year, said Mr. Snyder.I
 Sports have been an important part of 
lyder family life. Billys brothers and 
sters participated in many sports, and 
r. and Mrs. Snyder have made it a 
lint to attend all of their games. As a 
mily, sports gave the kids a good sense 
competition, but they kept it in periective, said Mrs. Snyder. They all 
lew that sports are only a part of the 
(whole.
The Tartans success this year was 
incredible, but the Snyders were not sur
prised by it. It just goes to show you that 
when 50 or 100 boys were out there 
ooking after each other and picking up 
vhen someone makes a mistake, this is 
he kind of reward you get, said Mr. 
Snyder.
Their family atmosphere, the team 
pint, is why theyre where they are 
low, said Mrs. Snyder. Usually every
one is looking out for number one. Its 
: jiice to see them help each other, en:ourage each other, and support each 
)ther. There are no stars. Everyone is 
I ust pulling his own weight.
Travelingto all of CMUs football games 
las also helped the Snyders meet other Please see PARENTS, page L5
Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Parents and other fans look on to the field at the game against Case Western Reserve last week.
Hession taclkes UAA honor
Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Quarterback, Bill Snyder, completes a pass.
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Senior Applied History major 
Mike Hession was asleep in his 
room last week when his roommate 
woke him up with the news that 
someone else got the University 
Athletic Association Defensive 
Player of the Week award.
So I asked him, Whyd you wake 
me up to tell me that? So then he 
told me I got it, and I made him 
show me the article, and when he 
did I just started laughing, 
Hession said. It was great.
Hessions award was for the 
CMU/Case Western Reserve game 
which CMU won 421 n T-rAoc,,^
had twelve tackles that game, nine of 
which were unassisted.
However, Hession places the teams 
play-off berth higher than his award. 
I was more worried about making 
the play-offs ... this is the first time in 
five years we made it, and thats the 
important thing. Were a team, he 
said.
A football player since fourth grade, 
Hession said, Ive never really 
thought about why. It just seems 
natural that every fall you look 
forward to playing football.
He broke his foot last January 
playing intramural basketball, and, 
although doctors thought it was 
healed by football season, it snappednrrnirt rfin'inrr tArtfkn II nomn Th Accirvn
had an operation and was out for the 
season. Im afraid it will break 
again, so I just dont think about it, 
he said.
Because of his missed season, 
Hession has one more year of 
playing eligibility should he choose 
to use it. I might use it if I go on to 
SUPA, but well just have to wait 
and see how that goes, he said.
He also feels that the team this 
year was exceptional; they havent 
just been winning because of their 
schedule. I think our team this year 
was really good, said Hession.
The Tartans, who won the UAA 
championship, are one of four teams 
in the South region which made the
nl nir r\rrc>
Tartans reminisce on seasons games
By ALLISON DURAZZI
[ 'Tartan Features Editor
While most of us were 
holed up in a study carrel 
or catching up on sleep, the 
pMU football team xloded on the fields of the 
new University Athletic 
Association and wrote 
themselves a page in the 
UAA history book.
The Tartans took the 
^UAAs first championship 
;iwith an undefeated regular 
Season and, to everyones 
.surprise, made a bid for
 national Division III 
championships.
We came together as a 
^am, said H&SS senior 
Bill Snyder. Teamwork has 
jjbeen the keyword for the 
Payers. With small numbe,,s in the stands, the 
Players became self-reliant.
We pretty much play for 
ourselves, said CIT senior 
Brian Lippert. Its not a 
glamorous Division I 
school. You dont get any 
Jglory, so that leaves your
self, your team.... Most gays 
Play because they like to 
Play, he said. Another spect of the game is the camaraderie. A bunch of 
uys working together and 
seeing the'results is really 
ratifying, said Lippert.
Senior running back Scott Barnyak leads his team members down the line.
ignauus sasmita/ lartan rnoio ataiT manager 
The sportsmans-like Tartans shake hands with the Case Western Spartans.
We pretty much play for ourselves. CMU isnt 
a glamorous Division I team. There isnt much 
glory, and that leaves yourselfyour team...
 Brian Lippert 
senior defensive back
Marvin Germany, an 
H&SS senior, agreed. I 
never played on a team 
where everyone liked each 
other. Ive learned a lot 
about myself, and how to 
make goals, he said. Ger
many credits the coaches 
for much of the teams out
look. We have a great 
group of coaches, he said.
Not only are they good 
coaches, but they are fine 
people, too.
As far as attendance, 
MCS freshman Andrew 
Van Sprang noticed a dif
ference from his high school 
team. We had a lot of 
people show up to all the 
games, he said. When I 
got here, I expected, espe
cially because of the new 
field, the same thing.... But 
the people you really care 
about come.
Attendance is an issue 
with many. Snyder, who 
comes from a high school 
team with what he called 
a great tradition, is used 
to evening games with six 
to seven thousand specta
tors.
Coming to CMU was a 
shock at first. You play 
the first game, and you see 
how many people are in the 
stands, and you try to not 
let it get to you. And for the 
most part it really doesnt, 
said Snyder. Once you get 
into the game, youre really 
concentrated....
H&SS senior Don 
DeCaro also felt the team 
spirit through his four years 
on the team. The main 
reason for our success is 
thatwe played like a team, 
he said. There are no indi
viduals on the team, every- Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
one did his part contribut- Coach Rich Lackner barks instructions to the team. Players credit 
ing to the team. their coaches with fostering the teams camarederie.

---------------------------------------------------

PITTSBURGH...History engineers view of city for visitors
By WILLIAM BURKY
Tartan Contributing Editor
For most newcomers to Pittsburgh, a 
must-see tourist attraction is one of 
the inclines on Mt. Washington. A 
typical evening would include eating 
and shopping at Station Square, then 
taking a ride up the Duquesne Heights
 Incline to the top of Mt. Washington. 
There, one can enjoy a spectacular 
view of downtown Pittsburgh from one 
of several overlooks.
The inclines are each composed of a 
pair of tracks going up the hillside 
with a station at each end. Each track 
has'a car, with seating on a platform 
leVfil with the ground below. While one 
car is being pulled up the track, the 
other is let down.
For people who do not regularly use 
the Duquesne Heights Incline, the ride 
will usually begin at the bottom. Free 
parking is provided there by Station 
Sqtiare for passengers, except during 
special event nights, when there is a 
charge. At the bottom station is the 
conductor, who is responsible for 
collecting the fare, which is $1 each 
way for adults.
After paying, one simply walks into 
the car, if its there, or waits a few 
minutes for it to arrive. The conductor 
sertds a signal to the operator at the 
top when the car is ready, then the 
door closes automatically and the 
ascent begins. Upon leaving the 
station, you immediately have a great 
view of the city and of Three Rivers 
Stadium across the Ohio.
The ride itself is only a few minutes, 
so >e sure to take in as much as 
possible. At the top, the car comes to a 
comfortable stop at the upper station. 
The doors reopen, the passengers exit 
into a beautifully restored building, 
filled with antique decorations and 
pictures from all over Pittsburgh.
For souvenir hunters, there is a 
corner of the lobby where you can buy 
such items as shirts, sweatshirts, pens, 
mugs, and various drawings and 
photographs of the inclines and other 
Pittsburgh landmarks.
A few steps up from the lobby floor is 
the operators booth. It sits directly at 
the end of the track, so the operator 
has a very clear view of the cars. The 
operator has just a small control panel 
which allows him to control the pull 
cables and the brakes on the cable 
pulling equipment.
One of the operators people might 
see at the Duquesne Incline is Jim 
Donovan. Hes in his retirement and 
works as an operator two days a week. 
Theres not much to the job, because 
th<* cars are reliable and the controls 
ar< simple, he says. The thing that 
ha the greatest affect on the operation 
of the incline is lightning.
If theres a bad storm, the power 
will almost always go out for a while.
It is then necessary to switch over to 
the diesel generator, a process that 
takes 5 or 6 minutes. Usually, the 
operator will make the switch early on 
in a storm, so that a power outage will 
not inconvenience the riders.
The cable drum and the main drive 
gear are located at the upper station. 
These major machinery components
have been in use since the inclines 
first opening in 1877. They are simply 
driven by electricity now, instead of 
steam.
Both cars are connected by their pull 
cables to the same cable drum, which 
is 12 feet diameter. This drum is 
grooved such that when it turns, one 
car is pulled up its track, while the 
other is let down. Thus, the cars 
always move simultaneously, and 
passengers can count on passing the 
other car in the middle of your trip.
If something were to happen to 
either the drive cable or the coupling of 
the cable to the car, all motion would 
stop, and a safety line, which connects 
the cars together, would make each car 
hold the other in place.
The track itself is two-way, with a 
car on each track. Up the middle is a 
row of wooden slats that a person can 
use to traverse the track in case of 
emergency. The Duquesne Inclines 
track is 800 feet long and covers a 
vertical distance of 400 feet. This puts 
the track at a 30 angle to the ground.
Tha cars are the refurbished origi
nals from 1877. They are single level 
cars, with the platform parallel to the 
ground, hot the track. They are outfit
ted with hand-carved cherry panels 
with maple trim, amber glass tran
soms, and old wrought-iron hardware.
The Duquesne Incline exists today 
thanks to the Society for the Preserva
tion of the Duquesne Heights Incline. 
In November 1962, the incline had to 
close for repairs. The owners felt that 
due to declining ridership, they could 
not afford to make the repairs, and 
instead shut down the incline.
The hilltop communities of 
Duquesne Heights and Mt. Washing
ton got together, though, and raised 
the $15,000 needed to repair the 
incline and get it back in service. Since 
then the society has been responsible 
for the upkeep and refurbishing of the 
incline, using money obtained from 
both fares and donations.
The other incline still in service is 
the Monongahela Inclined Plane, 
which is located about a mile up the 
road from the Duquesne Incline. Its 
setup is a little different. There is no 
conductor at the bottom. Instead, all 
the fares are taken at the top, and the 
operator at the top has security cam
eras monitoring the lower platform.
The cars are a bit different, too. They 
have three tiers. The lower two of 
which are enclosed, while the upper 
tier is covered but open to the air.
These two inclines are the only two 
remaining of the 15 that once existed 
around Pittsburgh. The Monongahela 
was actually the first incline to be built 
in Pittsburgh. It was built in 1870, and 
it still serves as an important connec
tion between Carson Street at the 
Smithfield Street Bridge and the east 
end of Grandview Avenue.
The inclines were a very important 
means of both freight and passenger 
transportation before many of the 
roadways of today were developed. For 
instance, the Penn incline was built to 
handle 20-ton coal cars, as well as 
passenger cars. Built in 1883, this 
incline was vital for the supplying of 
coal to the communities on the bluff.
A view of the terminal at the inclines as the car reaches the top.
Though most of the inclines were 
just straight up and down the hill
sides, two of Pittsburghs inclines 
actually had curves in them, and 
several had more than one grade.
Today, the need for the inclines is 
obviously much less than it once was, 
but there is still a fair amount of 
traffic on them. The Duquesne 
Incline gets between 500 and 800 
passengers on a weekday and about
1400 on a Saturday. The ridership 
reaches a peak during special events 
like Light Up Night or the Fourth of 
July. Fridays Light Up Night brought 
about 2000 riders to the Duquesne 
Incline.
One time this summer, a couple even 
got married on the Duquesne Incline. 
Donovan remembers. It was a Jewish 
couple, and part of the ceremony de
manded the couple to smash glasses at
William Burky/Tartan Contributing Editor
their feet. To avoid making a mess of 
the car, they brought along plastic 
bags to break the glasses in.
The inclines of Pittsburgh are much 
like the cable cars of San Francisco. 
While no longer being essential as a 
means of transportation, they are an 
important piece of Pittsburghs history 
 and they provide Pittsburghs resi
dents with a nostalgic look back to the 
way things once were.
L2 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990
A ride to the top of the inclines offers some unusual perspectives.An expansive view of the Pittsburgh city skyline from atop the inclines.
...-j---------- .. .. -------------------jjiAA.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990L3
gyJJOWDY PIERCE
pMn Editor-in-Chief
:SLast year, Holy Cross senior 
Paul Chattergy decided he did 
not want to enter the corporate
world.I couldnt see myself doing 
omething really interesting in 
ose entry-level positions, he
says-Instead, Chattergy, an eco
nomics major, decided to teach 
fourth grade.
Now, just six months out of 
cllege hes running a bilingual 
classroom with 31 students at 
^ayo Elementary School in 
(jompton, California, one of the 
niostunderprivileged areas in Los 
Angeles.
hattergy is one of 505 charter 
embers of a private-sector iniliative called Teach For America, 
loosely modeled on the Peace 
io^ps, the program aims to im
prove the quality and size of
Teach For America challenges college graduates
Americas teaching force by at
tracting graduating seniors who 
did not major in education.
Now in its second year, Teach 
For America has targeted 171 
colleges, including Carnegie 
Mellon, for active recruiting. The 
organization says it is looking for 
seniors who demonstrate persis
tence, sensitivity, leadership, 
communication ability, and com
mitment.
We are a national teacher corps 
of talented, dedicated individu
als, said Wendy Kopp, the 1988 
Princeton alumna who designed 
the program for her senior honors 
thesis and has been working since 
graduating to implement it. 
Were fighting persistent teacher 
shortages across the country.
Corps members agree to serve 
as teachers for two years after 
graduation. After undertaking an 
eight-week crash course in edu
cation over the summer, Teach 
For America places graduates in
disadvantaged school districts in 
rural and urban settings in the 
fall.
Graduates are employees of the 
school districts they work for, so 
they receive standard starting 
salaries for teachers in their dis
tricts. This year, their salaries 
range from $18,000 to $29,000.
The programs participants are 
impressive. Nationally, education 
majors entering teaching aver
aged 950 on the SAT; Teach For 
Americas charter class averaged 
1251. On average, last years corps 
also outperformed education 
majors in each of the seven cat
egories on the national teachers 
exam.
Teach For America has a long 
and competitive application pro
cess because it depends on its 
selectivity to sell itself. In the 
first stage, applicants submit re
sponses to two essay questions, a 
letter of interest, a transcript, and 
three recommendations. After
applications are received, candi
dates undergo a sample teaching 
session and two interviews before 
being accepted into the program.
Kopp says her organization re
ceived over 2600 applications last 
year, from which it selected 505 
teachers. This year, she and other 
organizers are aiming for 5000 
applicants and 1000 teachers.
Its smart to get the application 
now, she says, because we re
quire three recommendations. 
Applications are available in 
Carnegie Mellons Career Center 
and must be postmarked by 
January 4.
According to the organizations 
brochure, part of the idea behind 
Teach For America is to allow 
students to pursue teaching for a 
short time without limiting their 
other career options, hence the 
short two-year commitment.
Public service always looks 
good on a resume, says John 
Michalenko of the Career Center.
Corporations always look at that 
pretty highly.
If a prospective employee shows 
promise as a senior, theres 
nothing to say that we wouldnt 
be interested in that same person 
two years later, if theyre good, 
says technical recruiter Beth 
Davis of Microsoft, considered one 
of the most competitive corpora
tions in the job market.
However, Davis says, two years 
away from programming could 
hurt people who hope to land a job 
with Microsoft, because they will 
then be competing with other 
applicants who have experience 
in the computer software indus
try, not with other recent college 
graduates.
Nonetheless, Teach For 
America offers a temporary al
ternative to graduate school and 
the corporate world that many 
students find attractive. Over half 
of the members of Chattergys 
class plan to leave teaching after
their two-year stint with Teach 
For America is up.
Although Chattergy himself 
plans to go on to graduate school 
in law, public policy, or interna
tional relations, he says hell re
turn to teaching afterwards. Ive! 
always considered teaching to be 
in my blood, he says. Ill be backsomeday.
Chattergys inability to explain 
his dedication mirrors Kopp, whor 
cannot quite justify her own de
votion. Returning her phone calls 
at 9 pm after a full day of lobbying 
in Washington, she says, I just 
feel that education is fundamen
tal to everything. Im pretty con
victed in that belief for some rea-; 
son. IZJ
Speaking from the front lines*," 
Chattergy has a different perT 
spective. I love the kids, he says. 
with a sense of awe. Theyre - 
great. They do cute things some:; 
times, and theyre innocent - they, 
always want the good guy to win. i
Lecturer harmonizes contemporary music with earlier styles
ByMARNI BOREK
TaHan Staffturiter
usic audiences in the future will be 
toltl about musicians such as Elvis, the 
S'upremes, the Beatles, and the Rolling 
Stones, but how can society relay the 
history of twentieth century composers 
whfen many people are unfamiliar with 
this group of artists? In her lecture, 20th 
Century. American History: An Oral 
Historians Viewpoint, Vivian Perlis, 
director of oral history studies at the 
Yale University School of Music, gave 
conventional audiences a perspective in 
the style and quality of music written by 
contemporary composers 
According to Perlis, dramatic change 
occurred in the composition of music at 
t|ie turn of the century. The major char
acteristic in the music of tho Baroque, 
Romantic, and Classical periods was 
what Perlis called repetition in accel
erating change. Modem day composi
tions cannot be placed in a specific cat
egory because the music of e&ch decade 
has a distinctive, but overlapping style.
So what were the dramatic changes in 
the music of the twentieth century? 
There was violent upheaval in the teens 
andl920s, explained Perlis. Traditional 
values were questioned and composers 
had the freedom to exercise free will.
In the field of music, rebelling against 
common values meant going against 
conservatism. The new music of our 
century was exciting and original. There 
was no more push for tonality  mean
ing what sounded musically correct  
each note flowing perfectly into the next
one; there was no more emphasis on 
repetition  meaning no more replicat
ing of the same theme throughout a 
piece. This type of repetition is most 
easily seen in the works of composers 
such as Vivaldi. Finally, there would be 
no more reverence of composers  
meaning that young aspiring composers 
would no longer model themselves after 
Mozart and Bach.
At the turn of the century, two new and 
important ideas were introduced in 
musical composition. These were atonal 
qualities and the twelve tone row. In 
music using these two ideas there was no 
tonal or basic melodic center  all notes 
wouldbe used in a random order. Famous 
conductors such as Stravinsky exhibited 
these fresh new ideas in his music.
Americans did not play a major role in
the music revolution until World War I. 
As Perlis put it, Americans were poised 
and ready to take flight. During this 
time period, the United States produced 
fine composers like Charles Ives and 
Aaron Copeland, who were the center of 
Perlis discussion.
The next major period in musical 
composition is the 50s and 60s. Music of 
this era is not very well known by music 
appreciators. Zen Buddhism was quite 
an influence in many instances. Com
posers took on very permissive attitudes. 
This is very much seen in a composition 
called The Silent Piece, which raises 
consciousness about the interpretation 
of music. Performance of the piece entails 
a musician sitting in front of a piano with 
a score, but there is no playing involved.
During the 70s there was a new rest
lessness. Composers were tired of using' 
the atonal ideas and a new romanticism 
was born, once again introducing tonal^' 
ity. This new romanticism crossed over 
into other styles of music, namely in the; 
works of artists such as Frank Zappa.
The composers of today are a bit hesi
tant in their style of music. Composers, 
do not know if there will be a future. 
There is not the same confidence, Perlis. 
stated at the end of her lecture.
Ultimately it is up to the public to 
decide whether or not there will be a 
future in musical composition. Perhaps, 
the current generation will be able tpt 
look back in time to the days of fervent 
nationalism and pride and express this 
feeling once again in music. It is better to 
use musical notes to. express hope and 
optimism rather than to express despair.
STUDENT SENATE ELECTIONS
WHAT: Election for fall seats on Student Senate
WHEN: 9:00 am - 4:30 pm (next week)
Tuesday and Wednesday Nov. 27, 28
WHERE: In front of Doherty Hall
MAKE A DIFFERENCE ... VOTE!

---------------------------------------------------

PRESIDENTS
Distinguished Lecture Series
Mark your calendars now for the
remaining presentations for the
Presidents Distinguished Lecture
Series. |
 .I
' - _ K . 'Mqj
Hugo Thiemann
Director, IICS (Industrial Innovations and Cooperative Systems)
: /iff]
Geneva, Switzerland ri7 _ 'u.ti;
Industrialization at a Turning Point
Monday, November 26
3:30 p.m., Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall J
Mas sad Avoob i :
Director, Lethal Force Institute 7]
Concord, New Hampshire v |
Guns, Death and Ethics: The Police View of Gun Control
Monday, December 3
3:30 p.m., Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall
The Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series is organized by 
Faculty Senate, chaired by History Professor John Modell and 
funded by the Office of the President.
All lectures are free and open to the public. For more 
information contact the Special Events office at 268-5052.
Carnegie
Mellon

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990L5
Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Jim OConnell, left, and Michael Patrick Walker in a rehearsal for Getting Even  An 
Evening with Woody Allen.
Parents unite for sons
Scotch N Soda 
closes season 
by Getting Even
jjy RUSSELL 7T7hh
Tartan Staffwriter
Scotch N Soda, CMUs theater group 
r non-drama majors, is getting even 
^ith Woody Allen on November 30 at 7 
and 9 Pm *n Skibos Wherrett Room.
The student theater groups third and 
final show of the fall semester will be a 
collection of adaptations from Woody 
glens book Getting Even. Directed by 
sophomore Jennifer Adams and senior 
Michael T. Rose, the show includes an 
ensemble cast of eight Scotch N Soda 
actors and actresses.
With only three weeks to rehearse, all 
involved have been working hard to put 
together the one-hour-and-twentyjninute show.
1 Its really been an experiment on the 
Organizations part, said Adams. Scotch 
|l Soda usually presents pieces written 
jy CMU students. However, Mick 
gutter's and Javier Grillo-Marxuachs 
idea to adapt stories from Woody Allens 
book won quick approval from the Scotch 
fll1 Soda board. Adams notes that it was 
a collective adaptation.. Likewise, 
Scotch n Soda chair Michael Patrick 
lalker points out that despite the fact 
that we didnt write [the stories], were in 
bhthe creative process. Nowin its eightyfcjiird year, Scotch n Soda provides stu
dents outside of the drama department 
who are interested in theater an oppor
tunity to act, direct, and become involved 
in other aspects of production, 
j! For Getting Even, Scotch n Soda is 
putting on a longer show than others 
one earlier in the _ season. The first 
production, Dont Let The Bedbugs Bite, 
jyritten by Sutter and directed by Walker, 
jvas performed on September 30. Next 
jame Scotch n Soda Double Shots, a
longer presentation of two back-to-back 
plays: Particle Flow, written by GrilloMarxuach and directed by Neil Thornton; 
and The Atheist, written by Nicholas 
Wardigo and directed by GrilloMarxuach.
The octet of actors for Getting Even  
An Evening With Woody Allen includes 
Grillo-Marxuach, Heidi Hoover, Bob Igo, 
Christian Matyi, Christy Moore, Jim 
OConnell, Sutter, and Walker.
These are eight very talented people, 
said Adams. The show, begun less than 
four days after the last production fin
ished, is cooperatively directed by two 
people, an occurrence not often seen in 
the Scotch N Soda organization.
Rose, managing editor of The Tartan, 
has had experience in directing young 
performers, but this will be his first time 
directing a Scotch N Soda production. 
He says he is pleased that Jenny 
[Adams] and I bring different things to 
directing. Adams, another first-time 
Scotch {N Soda director, agrees: [Our] 
different strengths work out well.
The play is framed by a chess-playing 
sketchinthe book entitledThe GossageVardebedian Papers. The rest of the
playconsists of four other humorous story 
adaptations: Death Knocks, Count 
Dracula, Viva Vargas!Excerpts from 
the Diary of a Revolutionary, and Mr. 
Big. The eight actors and actresses each 
play at least three different roles 
throughout the show. Both Adams and 
Rose are impressed with the casts work 
so far.
Although Getting Even An Evening 
With Woody Allen is the last perfor
mance this semester from ScotchN Soda, 
there will be more to come in the spring.
The full-length musical done by the 
group every spring has already been 
chosen. DArtegan, written by students 
Michael Cuccaro, Christopher Thomas, 
and K. Michael Thomas, will be per
formed at least four or five times during 
Spring Carnival. Auditions will be held 
when students return from the winter 
break in January.
Scotch N Soda hopes to continue to 
get people on stage. Stage Manager Steve 
Simon feels that the greatest thing about 
Scotch N Soda is that were always 
welcoming new people. Interested stu
dents can visit the office at Skibo Room 
60 or call x3522.
PARENTS, from page LI
parents doing the same. We formed a 
really great support system which I think 
well have for the rest of our lives. I hope 
we all stay in touch, said Mrs. Snyder. 
Weve met some great people.
One of the families which the Snyders 
have come to know is that of Don DeCaro. 
His parents have also traveled to all of 
the Tartans games, both home and away. 
Hes my son, said Mr. DeCaro. Weve 
always followed him. I think sometimes 
he looks to us for support.
Mr. DeCaros most exciting moment 
was the Senior Parents Day game 
against Geneva College. It was pretty 
exciting being there, watching every
thing culminate.... My son had a clutch 
catch, he said.
Like the Snyders, the DeCaros have
enjoyed the interaction with the other 
parents. Its half the fun, said Mr. 
DeCaro. Weve gone out to eat together 
and taken the boys out, and just had a 
really good time. Weve made a lot of 
friends. Mrs. DeCaro even sent out flyers 
to many of the other football parents 
inviting them to their home in 
Greensburg, Pennsylvania before some 
games. Its been pickingup,Mr. DeCaro - 
said.  [At the Case Western game] there  
were almost as many of us as there were 
fans for the home team.
While many CMU students see their 
families on a limited basis, Don and Billy 
got to see theirs almost every weekend of 
the fall semester because of their parents 
dedication.
But it is no sacrifice for them. Were so  
proud of the boys and their accomplish- ;
Sam Mastromatteo/Tartan PhotographerI want you!
Ron Paul, the 1988 libertarian presidential candidate, addresses students and 
members of the Pittsburgh community in the Skibo Ballroom Thursday. Paul 
endorses a small government, a return to the gold standard, legalization of drugs, 
no foreign intervention, and elimination of welfare.
A PERSON'S
Elizabeth Crawford 
Senior, CFA
I havent used Andrew in three 
years, but I did go away for a 
year.
David Krall 
Graduate Student,
GSIA
I use it for accessing files in 
GSIA and for reading bulletin 
boards.
Bridget Eperthener 
Junior, H&SS
I use Andrew for Minitab - its 
for Statistics.
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photographer
Aaron Schultz 
Sophomore, CIT
I use Andrew for writing es
says, programs, and doing labs 
for physics and engineering.
No matter what college, all Mike Damon 
\tudents are required to take Junior CIT 
Computer Skills Workshop, a 
course that familiarizes students 
with Andrew as well as the
Macintoshes we can use in the * ^on * use Andrew. 
clusters. This week, The Tartan 
asked, How often do you use 
the Andrew System?
How satisfied are you with your current career?
1 Do you have as much control over your own schedule as you would like? ? Yes ONo
2 Does harder work and better performance automatically result in greater income for you?
3 Is your earning potential for any given year basically unlimited?
? Yes ? No
? Yes ? No
4 Do you get out of your office or work area as much as youd like? ? Yes ? No
5. Do you feel that your work puts you in enough contact with other people? ? Yes ? No
If you answered "no" to one or more of these questions, 
we invite you to come to The Prudentials
FREE CAREER 
SEMINAR
See how you can go into 
business for yourself.. .with us!
II you were in business with The Prudential, youd probably answer "yes" to all these questions. Because when you become a Prudential Representative, you get what most 9-to-5 jobs can't give you. Like unlimited earning potential. Flexible hours. The chance to work outside your office. Rewarding contact with people.Want to know more? Then come to our FREE Seminar and find out how you can have a part of The Prudential's billion-dollar business in insurance and other financial services.If you've ever dreamed of going into your own business, this is the career for you. Because the Prudential Representative ' enjoys the entrepreneur's money-making potential and the backing of a solid, billion- dollar company. Specifically. The Prudential offers its representatives:
 A complete training program
 A competitive starting income
 Unlimited potential for growth
The Prudential gives you support that's "above and beyond." But you too must go "above and beyond" if you are to succeed. Because this career demands a great deal of energy, ambition, and business smarts, not everyone has what it takes. If you think you do, don't miss our seminar.Remember, this seminar entails no cost and no obligation! So. call now to make your reservation! i---------------------------------------1
The Prudential 
i On-Campus Interviews 
I Friday, November 30, 1990 i 
! 9:00 am - 4:30 pmCareer Services and Placement Center' Carnegie Mellon University I19 Warner Hall Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (412) 268-2061 '
j Register for a Personal ! 
Interview Today
Walk - hi Tutoring
Sundey through Thursday 8-11p.m.
CalculusWeil5403
PhysicsWell5427
ChemistryWell5205
Academic WritingWell5205
Intro to ComputingWeH5409
The Prudential tThe Right Place Tl Tawr
ABOVE AND BEYOND

---------------------------------------------------

TH
Doonesbury by G. B. TrudeauCalvin and Hobbes by Bill Waterson
Hl.lACEY.ITSJOANIE. HAVEYOU GIVEN HELLOf ANY M0RETWU5HT \ JOBBING A WRJT5- \ IN CANDIDATE?
WELL, YES, I ^HAV5.PeAR.I9JP- AND P05E IF THER&S NO IFOTHER CANDIDfTB.lTD ELECTED, BE IRRESPONSIBLE YOU'LLTD RULE \fSERVE? VOUT...y~~~^J /
WUAT WOULD 10U DO \F '{OVJ COULD STA'f HOVAE THIS WORKING ?
YWAT A WKSTE TO BE GOIUG TO SCHOOL OH A MORNING UKE TMIS. ^
ANOTHER GORGEOUS BR\Sfc FALL DM. ^7 MIGHT HAVE TO RESIGN AGAIN. OVERTAXES.
YES, BUT WITH ONE PROVISO.
WHATS THAT?SLEEP RIGHT THROUGH IT.
IT ad1.LI, happened Bf ACCIDENT/ ___BOTH UNANNOUNCED AND UNOPPOSED, MRS. DAVENPORT RECEIVED 38,000 VOTES, AN EXTRAORDINARY FEAT THAT HAS STUNNED ^r=^THE IOCALPOLWCAL ^ESTABLISHMENT!
NftKA WUQJsK
. WPo/>
LACEY DAVENPORT,THE REPUBLICAN CON5RE66- WOMAN WHO RESIGNED LAST SUMMER OVER THE SSL CRISIS, HAS BEEN SWEPT BACK INTO OFFICE IN A WRITE-IN CAMPAIGN-.
MY REACTION? IN TIGHT! TO WHAT, IN TIGHT!DEAR* SHE'S STM.ten1 A VIRGIN1
i AND IN CALIFORNIA, A REMARKABLE ELECTION PAY DEVELOPMENT...
IS IT TRUE WON? YOU PEAR* I ' MVEOVER
*$S? ^VOTESI\ / AND STILL-\ I COUNTING'.
WHATS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A GARDEN SLOG AMO A TWO-INCH-LONG,- LW1NG BCOGER? ^
INSTENO, DO 10U WANT TO HEAR A R\00l I MADE UPDOW S\T NEXT RELAY. 1 TO WE, CALVIN. WON'T TALK I DOUT WANT N80JT LUHCU TO HEAR AHI V AT Ml.DISGUSTING COMMENTS ABOUT J \ k. LUNCH. ,__y
YOU CANT BE SERIOUS! 138,000 PEOPLE WROTE MY NAME IN?
jSg MHO CARES! THEIR PEN- FDR PFTF', MANSHIP? w^ACEY, \ / BREAKOUT\ / THE SHERRY!
I CANT TVAlMVC OF A DIFFERENCE V EITHER.
GRACIOUS..
A R\DDLE OK.
HEAVENS'. WHAT A RUCKUS!
I-DONT KNOW HOW MANY T/ME IN OUR HISTORY A WRJlE-IN CANDIDATE HAS BEEN SENT TO CONGRESS, , BUT, IM JUST THRJUEP BEYOND WORDS \TO BE ONE OF THEM1
I MUST HAVE THE MOST LOYAL FRIENDS ON EARTH: DO YOU KNOW WHAT ALL OF YOU ARE? DO YOU?
\TS HARO TO BE RELIGIOUS WUEN CERTAIN PEOPLE ARE NEVER. INCINERATED BOLTS OF UGHTNlNG.
FORGET IT.tAOE. 
WAIT 'tOURTURN.
SINCE SHE NEVER CAMPAIGNED, MRS. DAVENPORT IS NOW IN THE UNUSUAL POSITION OF HAVING TO FIND CUT WHAT'S ON VOTERS ' MINDS AFTER THE ELECTION1.
...ANDHOUJ MANY THINK WE SHOULD INVADE KUWAIT?
IN THE STREETS OF SAN FRANCISCO TONIGHT, THERE IS MUCH JOY OVER. THE RE-ELECTION OF LAC5Y DAVENPORT...
HER UNEXPECTED RETURN TO OFFICE, HOWEVER, HAS CREATED SOME UNIQUE PROBLEMS FOR. THE CONGRESSWOMAN...
THERES NO POINT IN SAVING '(OUR LUNCH BAGS IF MoU CANT KEEP THEM cleaner -__THAN THIS ^
A SHOW OF HANDS, PLEASE!
THATS WHAT you TH\NK.
YOU'VE ALL ONE LASTBEEN VERY QUESTION,SWEST. BUT MRS.D!I MUST WHAT NOW?RUN NOW... \
WELL, FIRST, ILL BE CATCHING MY BREATH AT. AN ARIZONA SPA UJTTH SOME OLD COLLEGE k CHUMS. THEN rTS BACK ' TO WASHINGTON... /
I TOLD 'fCU \ SECHH, HE THAT CHIL\ SPEWED \T SAVJCE WAS I AU. CRCSS HOrZ-X THE TABLE!
SUDDENLY, WITH A GROJND- SHWUG RUMBVE, HE BLOHS SKH HIGH/ HE'S A LWE VOLCANO / _
...WHERE THE FIRST ORDER OF BUSINESS WILL BE TO MEET UJTTH THE PRESIDENT. TVS TIME WE REPUBLICANS GOT TOGETHER TO OFFER PRINCIPLED, FOCUSED, DYNAMIC LEADERSHIP! THE^ COJNTRTPEMAHPSL-------1IT!
blwUlAU Mk HMrDlP ryYy U1AyH 6PDM Dpl 7L7I,f.TRANQUIL tAT. CALVINEXCUSEME, SIR. BO DEREK ON UNE TWO.
LLBE WO BUSY, RIGHT. JOHN?
Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.Calvin and Hobbes is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Press.
The Far Side by Gary Larson
The Far Side is a daily feature In the Pittsburgh Post Gazette."Well, if theres a bone stuck in your throat, you deserve it!... Do you see anyone else around here stupid enough to order fish?"
As the small band of hunter-gatherers sat around cleaning their weapons, one made the mistake of looking at his club straight on.
(c#oit arr*ad">sPa,'e
"Its just a miracle you pulled through, George. . Why, it was only a few hours ago the whole family was deliberating on whether or not to wring your neck."
The class was quietly doing its lesson when Russell, suffering from problems at home, prepared to employ an attention-getting device.
"We must be careful, Cisco!... Thees could be the eenfamous Queek Sand Beds of Chihuahua.

---------------------------------------------------

by JacK Si Leri
tef^ p PCK^F t?

---------------------------------------------------

The, A)Vtoti/re5 
of
'"in A 5"Llords or lessne-a.fP
fiTTBAff/o'v
foY Uif ^WO
u/eejC?, Creole- /is k.e.n\gfruijglinp wT'fK in-S' /ttcK of
eyes. tAs- u/ee-Kj we. pmesCtj ft yfto-' CvftovS
ruur, * '/ 
"<?>?<* 1W *>' We.bet*)*; \/&-SlO*C iVuf cov/rf hojn. cLycyeareJ oh yout-con'cs/>ajt lavi- of 'Cause. #e/Ve V///.
flefSpec-nVc, P^oel)
J X ->^5* ^eCcd.'JT 
.0 ^:n"1(0er)T . fJeort^Ji'gcon^
/Vov^ y
one fVn3 J ar'f 'r-5 5of(Jcrs iy/^J 6onJ 
aVj-tn'pp^ of Their uniFobf farNo j>J-ficOlaC CeAfon. Camt or>j f^ f------V Snocpie.' Xn y* *>-
1*1110 sl
7CoC^or yo. loco.
wcr'3vr(I Vir* >/
l^tyl Ukhdo T lk f'&t 
c, tow,-? 7to ituff lI'f^<W f/-V Sct-oJtk'mf my cl16 vp\Yum I ft boUsI 5 fatili Sajacjj 
P>~- - ThtxxKiQvkfI / 1 ^ Tot- frcy
M______ VisfXLsiSZhG-o Aem& A &*t tut-fay-UV/ -HutiK of Sot*.'itene.
m fee spito i X (TvJegs_____
^Oofr -5 zexftQ. $Ai6D QY 
A 0& Juo THU>KS H 
A M /> I (. M fi_uJ- 5B fmVEDmDDmK
9 \ 04IAAU
c6SR y C
0.. . wVat -o-CC 
oC T hzmVvScl'WlwWooF.?
^=*7/1 cw\jf--r-J'SCtfTx //Ti CUfiQEj \ 
Y I'U. HAVE ruf 
ONLV p/it>fLf
p pop.fror gg
  y^- 
WG-Vt4tH-J
WK-ul &ft ^oYm'A ,o iajIvVx
a\.V -tV\\s \(tb'ief~ footA Ti7
w'^ 00 5r MI5 DOU-' PAPDt,x&* ,(si6/nur4o zw ?/Mif *

---------------------------------------------------

AHW... THfc PEftCtfUl. 6APOW '
ijG la Hls
AS. A 6AG6ft&. 
MA(VJO>i_.Q. MOUV WAS 
BHaj UAib -re, Prato
Ev. Sa, |||j| Onusto 
T< 2-AR.K a UTTL.Q 
vta Hoe:^ e y
ffTRXtc>sl v'to 
B=iRA. 'h&SIiOT 
Uji 'lcwsepies op 
WH a,s- e m C
RAsnac.
60HAT
tiw COMVC- QQCSio'x ftPRSN>T THt PSWCHoC-OaV kg-PT.
colle
giate
crossword
[Edward Julius Collegiate CW8825
ACROSS49 Maid of Indialb Chaperonebl Lifts weights22 Ex-cager Unseld1Poker handsb3 Footnote abbrevi24 Organization for6---- materationTrapper John.10Police alertsb7 Bit of sarcasm26 VIP in haute:i4 Trifl ingb8 Perfectly fittingcuis me16 Arequipa's country60 One's partner27 1942 Crosby movie11Roll garnish61 On the average(2 wds.).18City in Oklahoma62 Wad components28 Unyielding19 Formerly63 Bread and whiskey29 Like good bacon20Words of confidence64 Allocates, wi th out31 In harmony21 Highways (abbr.)(2 wds.)2---- and flutterDOWN34 Activist23Mr. Gershwin38 Ci ty on the Danube2bEnding for leg1 Calumet39 Nuclear ----26Imaginery monster2 Love, in Spain40 Sea inlet3UFootball great3 Mischief makers41 Vine supporter32 Best policy4 Entranced42 Discovers (2 wds.)33Ground one's teethb Piggery43 Rater of mpg3bZeno of ----6 Basement access46-Myope of cartoons36 Bread spread7 Legal claimbO Attention-getters3/Wall or ceiling8 "Far from the ----b2 Fair featureattachmentCrowd"b3 ---- Nagy,41Pay through ----9 Finisher up theHungarian hero44Sir Arthur Conan,trackb4 Enticementand family10 Imitatorbb "As ---- as a4b Aging agent11 Olympic eventpainted ship..."46 Uglify12 Dairy product fromb6 Actress Susan,47 Wrest!ing mediumFrance (2 wds.)and family48Zeta's neighbor13 Like root beer69 30-Across, in 1977
These are the 
answers to last 
issue's puzzle.
EiaaQaman3EM3
QEflfHOBQQ1E9I3BQfilEl
?EiEiaa?0(300SEillIlIi
WllvPIL A I|T,T Rm\NJ,JgJ_L_AjiLE_|S |EN
LiANgOFScs! P Asv EDDMrJ_IIo! E TAloISiERjHiv_AN! R 0SM.Qr0RsTiLi;S: K IKIBe?guTjICAmRJJTI!EM]:IHMimLkJ1.1ECEmR
??QBE!HEMSEEE330
yhif
ass
ia@a
?qq mHG3QUO

---------------------------------------------------

Don't miss our 
Jam Session!
!sr
If you're about to graduate with a degree in CS, EE or Computer 
Engineering the words cutting-edge technology are probably 
music to your ears. That's what you'll find at Cadence, a leader in 
design automation technology. And you can find out all about our 
opportunities at our upcoming Jam Session:
Holiday Inn University Center 
100 Lytton Avenue 
Tuesday, December 4,1990 
6p.m.  7:30p.m.
So get to know the score about the opportunities at Cadence. If 
you're unable to attend our Jam Session, send your resume to: 
Cadence Design Systems, Inc., 555 River Oaks Parkway, San Jose, 
CA 95134. We are an equal opportunity employer.
CADENCE
Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Send a message 
to someone you love 
stationed in the Gulf 
For free.
Desert Fax5 service can help you reach 
U.S. Military Personnel in the Gulf.*
A quick note. A silly doodle. A clipping from the local newspaper. 
They may not seem like much, but to someone far away from home, they 
can mean a lot. And now theres a fast, easy way to send these heartfelt 
messages to a loved one stationed in the Gulf. For free.
Its called Desert Fax. It stores messages electronically and transmits 
them at high speed using Enhanced FAX service, which is available 
internationally. So you can fax a message to any U.S. military personnel 
overseas** involved in Operation Desert Shield.
Just go to your nearest AT&T Phone Center to pick up an official 
Desert Fax form. Put your personal message in the space provided! Fill in 
the necessary information including social security number and 
APO/FPO. An employee will fax it for you. And the person in the Gulf 
should receive your message within a few days.
Desert Fax messages can only be sent from the U.S. to the Gulf using 
the official forms available at all AT&T Phone Centers. To find out where 
the one nearest to you is located, and its hours, consult your white pages. 
Or call 1 800 555-8111, Ext. 36, Mon-Fri 8am-6pm, Sat 8am-4pm.
Because staying connected is something thats important to all of us.
Desert Fax is a public service brought to you by AT&T. 
This space is donated by this publication.
'This service will remain in effcct until modified or withdrawn by AT&T Active Duty and Reservists +Blue or black ballpoint pen recommended
CITIBANK
Cordially Invites
JUNIOR, SENIOR & GRADUATE
Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Information Systems, & Other Computer-related Majors to a Reception to Discuss
TECHNOLOGY & CAREERS WITH CITIBANK
Sv'*'SN
MONDAY, DECEMBER 3,1990 
5:30 - 7:30 PM
at
Holiday Inn-University Center 
100 Lytton Avenue 
Schenley Ballroom
To make a reservation, call Annmarie Belfield at (212) 559-8545 
before November 23, 1990
THIS PRESENTATION WILL:
Provide information on technology, career opportunities and internships within Citibanks diverse and innovative 
computer technology areas.
Give you an opportunity to talk with representatives from Citibank and learn about our Technical Associate Program. 
The Center for Career Services has additional information.
Citibank will recruit on campus on February 11,1991 and on February 22,1991 for Summer Associates.

---------------------------------------------------

Dances With Wolves captivates the viewed
Ben GIass/1990 Orion Pictures 
Lt. John Dunbar (Kevin Costner) surveys the frontier he calls home in Dances With Wolves.
It. John Dunbar (Kevin Costner) and the Sioux people leave their village in search of buffalo.
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Over the next couple of weeks, 
youre bound to hear two major 
things about Kevin Costners di
rectorial debut, Dances With 
Wolves  its three hours long, 
and its one of the most amazing 
films ever made.
Lets look at the first point. It is 
three hours long, but theres not a 
wasted frame in this movie. 
Dances With Wolves could have 
been a five-hour film and still 
beenjust as strong, if not stronger. 
A friend of mine said he could sit 
through ten hours; that may be 
taking it a bit too far, but you get 
the point.
Now, on to the film. The elabo
rate story  begins with Kevin 
Costner playing Lieutenant John 
J. Dunbar, a- Civil War hero who 
decides he wants to see the fron
tier before its gone. Dunbar is 
assigned to Fort Sedgewick, a post
 Movie Review 
? ???? DANCES WITH WOLVES.
A Union soldier becomes trapped 
between two worlds as he is slowly 
drawn into the loving and honorable 
fold of a Sioux tribe. Starring Kevin 
Costner, Mary McDonnell, Graham 
Greene, and Rodney A. Grant.
far beyond the furthest reaches of 
American civilization. However, 
when Dunbar arrives he finds the 
outpost deserted, with no trace of 
the former garrison.
At this point, Costner begins to 
etch his mark on the film through 
the use of incredibly scenic cam
era shots. The landscape shots 
are absolutely breathtaking  
sunsets and sunrises splash the 
screen with thousands upon 
thousands of colors and give the 
film an absolutely stunning look. 
With scenes like these expect to
see some awards handed out when 
Oscar time rolls around.
As the film progresses Dunbar 
discovers that hes not all alon^. 
As it turns out, Fort Sedgewick i 
not too far away from a Siou}t 
village. At first, theres somj* 
conflict between Dunbar and thj* 
Sioux tribe. However, after th 
Sioux make a few unsuccessful 
attempts to steal his horse 
Dunbar decides hes tired of bein 
a sitting duck and decides to pa 
a visit to the Sioux.
On the way to the village, 
Dunbar runs across an injured 
Indian woman, Stands With A 
Fist (Mary McDonnell), and 
quickly helps her. Dunbar carrie 5 
Stands With A Fist to the Sioux 
village, which both saves her life 
and convinces the Sioux people 
that they might want to give him 
a chance.
At this point, Id like to mention 
how good a job McDonnell die}.
Please see WOLVES, page Lift
Three Men and A Little Lady has a heart but no soul
'By KATIE CULBERTSON
Tartan Sports Editor
If the holidays are the season for sap, 
then Three Men and a Little Lady is out 
right on time. In fact, Hollywoods latest 
sequel is chock full of enough fluff to last 
;audiences until next Christmas.
Fortunately, the movies cast is stocked 
with enough talent to make the predict
ability bearably cute, and even funny 
once in a while.
Three Men and a Little Lady greets the 
theaters on the heels of the 1987 success,
|Three Men and a Baby, in which three 
wen living together stumble upon fa
therhood. After denials and protests of 
their fatherly instincts, they finally fall 
in love with Mary (the baby) and decide 
to keep her.
Five years later, the three dads, Mary, 
and Marys mom Sylvia (Nancy Travis) 
are sharing a cozy Manhattan brownstone. The family setting is unique, but
 Movie Review 
? ?? THREE MEN AND A LITTLE LADY.
The three dads are back and have a whole 
new mess of problems to deal with. Star
ring Tom Selleck, Steve Guttenberg, Robin 
Weisman, Nancy Travis and Ted Danson.
everyone is happy  the dads dote on 
Mary, and Sylvia, despite failed attempts 
at cooking, keeps up her maternal end of 
th bargain.
Enter Edward, the English play di
rector turned homewrecker. Sylvia, on 
the lookout for a husband, hastily accepts 
his marriage proposal. They go to En
gland, take Mary with them, and break 
the dads hearts.
At first, the guys look on the bright 
side. Living with Mary and Sylvia 
cramped their style  no overnight 
guests in the house allowed  and now
they have regained their bachelorhood, 
so they throw a party. But they find out 
that the fast lane isnt their style any
more, so they hop on a plane to England.
Peter, played by Tom Selleck, discov
ers in England that Edward is really a 
rat, and prepared to send Mary to board
ing school soon after the wedding. Peter 
then dons his shiny armor and is off to 
save Sylvia from marrying Edward.
The rest of the movie is a dragged-out, 
clumsy string of scenes that eventually 
culminates in a finale spotted a mile 
ahead. The cookie-cutter script leaves 
nothing up to the imagination. Face it 
this movie is not a shocker, but it does 
have its moments.
Most of those moments stem from the 
talents of Tom Selleck, Steve Guttenberg, 
and Ted Danson, who make up the corps 
of fathers. Their on-screen presence and 
ability to save a near-dead script is the 
backbone of the movie.
Please see LITTLE LADY, page L14
Gene Trindal/ Touchstone 
Ted Danson, Tom Selleck, Steve Guttenberg, and Nancy Travis have a discussion 
little Mary, Robin Weisman, plays with toys in Three Men and a Little Lady.
Gather the family together for the holiday treat Predator
fiy KEVIN BARNEY 
& xtIg FyAH?Fpylr
artan Contributing Editors
On Thanksgiving Day, people 
will be sitting at their dinner 
aMes eating turkey, stuffing, 
Potatoes, and cranberry sauce, 
jnner will end and the older 
lks will start discussing their 
atest digestive ailments. So, why 
nt you, as a member of the 
j^unger generation, suggest to 
e rest of your family a nice, 
^Ulet, family movie?
Then take them to see Predator 2.
We, being investigative reportfollowed an average family, 
e Wutchinsons, to the premiere
 Movie Review 
???? PREDATOR 2. The invisible 
alien is back, except this time its 
battlefield is in the urban jungle of 
Los Angeles. Starring Danny Glover, 
GaryBusey, Maria Conchita Alonso, 
and Ruben Blades.
showing of Predator 2. Here are 
their comments after seeing the 
film. This should help you con
vince the rest of the family that it 
is a movie worth seeing.
Tartan: What did you think of 
the movie, Father Hutchinson?
Father Hutchinson: I was re
ally into the plot of the story. It
was great. In the first Predator 
there were so many characters 
and they started dying one at a 
time until Arnold kicked the 
predators butt. This time, the 
predator is in a city of almost six 
million, and he has essentially no 
limit to his killing. What I espe
cially enjoyed....
Tartan: Be careful, now dont 
give away the plot.
Father: I wasnt going to. I was 
going to tell the folks how the 
movie wasnt a typical sequel 
mimicking its predecessor. This 
one took the story and concept of 
The Predator and expanded on it. 
The first movie was a body 
countdown, much like The Thing 
or Friday the 13th.
Mother Hutchinson: Well, ac
tually more like the Ten Little 
Indians.
Father: Yeah, thats right, 
Honey. Well, the predator is more 
interesting in this movie. We got 
a closer look at his motives and 
culture. Hes no longer seen as an 
invisible sinister force of evil but 
a creature of opportunity that 
seeks out challenge and game in 
our wars and conflicts. I especially 
like how the predator just dropped 
into the unfolding story of a L.A. 
drug war in 1997. That situation 
had its own sub-plots, like media 
exploitation (headed by Morton 
Downey Jr.), shake-up of police 
hierarchy and a gang power 
struggle, all of which culminated
into a cohesive and entertaining 
thriller of alien intervention. 
Mother: I also liked the story, 
but I disliked the number of 
characters that were disposed of 
early on.
Tartan: Again, try not to give 
away any of the plot.
Mother: I wont. Some of the 
characters werent killed, they 
were undeveloped. And these 
characters had good actors behind 
them  Ruben Blades (The Two 
Jakes), Robert Davi (.Die Hard, 
License to Kill), and Bill Paxton 
(Aliens, The Last of the Finest). 
These characters could have been 
so much more, but the writers 
concentrated on other things. 
Tartan: Thanks, Mother
Hutchinson. Grandma, how 
you feel about the movie? 
Grandma: The action 
quences were kick ass. The 
scene was great. A couple 
wounded men, a shootout betwee 
cops and drug dealers, and lots 
guns, lots of big guns. I love 
guns.
Grandpa: Thats for sure. 
Tartan: Could we get back 
the movie?
Please see PREDATOR, page
What the stars mean
***** Masterpiece 
**** Excellent 
*** Good 
** Fair 
* Poor
John Dunbar (Kevin Costner) and Stands With A Fist 
(Mary McDonnell) take a stroll through the woods.
Tribal holy man Kicking Bird (Graham Greene) ponders 
the motives of the tribe's new visitor.

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990
Joe Bob becomes one with the Big Apple
The latest thing in New York 
City is to buy grass.
Course, people in New York 
have been buying Arkansas Polio 
Weed for years, but Im talking 
serious grass. Im talking Ber
muda. Im talking Saint Augustirfe. Im talking about the stuff 
you'waste with a Lawn Boy.
They go to a flower shop and 
buy,- like, three square feet of it, 
and they take it home like a pet. 
They put it in a wooden box and 
water it, put a little Japaheeno 
tea house on it, hose it down once 
'day. They probly work it over 
With a Barbie-doll lawn mower 
once or twice a month. And this 
itiakes people feel like theyre in 
touch with nature.
And this is a trend. This is 
fashionable. Grass.
And the price of this grass, at 
your better garden shops, is fifty 
bucks for a seven-by-18-inch box. 
In other words, its more expensive 
than Arkansas Polio Weed.
You think Im making this up, 
don?t you? I can never tell these 
stories about New York, because 
everybody thinks Im lying.
They buy grass clods and put 
em in their living room like 
sculptures!
. Now. It would be easy to make 
fun of this, wouldnt it? Thats 
probly what you think Im gonna 
dp, isnt it? After all, its like a 
national right to pick on New 
Yorkers anytime we feel like it. 
Its in the Constitution or some
thing.
. But I decided that, just this one
JOE BOB GOES TO THE 
DRIVE IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
time, I would try to establish a 
cultural link with New York. I 
would try to show some sensitiv
ity to foreign customs. And so I 
called up one of my yahoo buddies 
that moved up to New York for 
my career, and I said, Lester, I 
want you to do me a favor. I want 
you to send me some New York 
grass that I can put on display in 
my trailer house.
And he did it. He and a couple 
other guys went down to Central 
Park and carved three square feet 
out of it, just enough to fill up a 
Goodyear tire, and they shipped 
it to me, and ever since then Ive 
kept it in my living room, like a 
sculpture.
And heres the interesting thing. 
The longer its been sitting on top 
of my TV set, the more my trailer 
has started to feel like New York 
City. The first thing that hap
pened, of course, is that the weight 
of the tire cracked my TV screen. 
That reminded me of New York 
right there. But the grass itself, 
this little plot of the Big Apple 
living and breathing down here
in Grapevine, finally started to 
have an effect on me.
I can now say I love it. Its a part 
of my life. When I come home at 
night, I have to stop by the TV set 
and sniff the fragrance. Its 
beautiful to me. Its a deep deep 
brown, except for the parts that 
are covered in Mexican beer cans. 
And every time I take a garden 
hose to it, I learn something new. 
Last week I found a Marine-issue 
survival knife buried two inches 
below the surface. I didnt disturb 
it, of course. It was covered with 
one of those Italian-ice wrappers 
and the little red plastic stick. 
Further down was an elastic, 
rubbery piece of ... I better not 
talk about that... and a crumpled 
piece of paper that says Ameri
cans Out of Iraq! Its like a daily 
archeology lesson. The more I sift, 
the more I learn. The more I smell, 
the more I ... well ... the more I 
smell. Yesterday I found a subway 
token that had been filed down 
into the shape of Mayor Fiorello 
La Guardia. No telling what an
cient civilization produced this. 
And if you go deep into the tire, 
almost to the very bottom, you 
can sometimes find little green 
slivers of some living substance
 soft and slick when you touch 
it, growing in bunches, and the 
green comes off on your hand. I 
try to keep its growth to a mini
mum with DDT, but you cant 
have everything.
And speaking of giant flesheating rats, Gravevard Shift is the 
19th Big Steve King story to be
made into a movie, and its one of 
the more decent ones, even though 
the gigantic mutant-slime octopus 
monster that lives in the basement 
doesnt really ever appear on 
screen where you can get a good 
look at him. But we do see some 
extremely groady pus-infested 
rats, and the only man who can 
get rid of em is ... Brad Dourif, of 
course. The Bruce Dem of the 
nineties. These are not as good as 
the giant exploding rats in Food 
of the Gods, and there arent as 
many of em as in Deadly Eyes (in 
my opinion, the finest rat flick 
ever made, even better than 
Willard or Ben)  but they are 
huge, they are hairy, and they 
have long slimy tails.
And oh yeah. One more thing. 
Theyre real mad.
Everybody who works the 
graveyard shift at this old textile 
mill in Maine gets mysteriously 
pierced with a tentacle, the blood 
squeezed out of em, and ground 
up in a cotton sifter.
The explanation of the foreman?
Must be one of those, you know, 
industrial accidents. They werent 
union guys anyway, so who cares?
But the foreman has some kind 
of reason for wanting these guys 
to keep going down into the 
basement of the plant (I never 
figured out what it was), and so 
he pays double overtime for any
one who will volunteer for the 
cleanup crew. Unfortunately, 
when he says clean the place up, 
hes talking about a basement that 
hasnt seen daylight since 1634.
They never can keep the camera straight on Big Steves movies.
There are entire bowling teams 
buried down there. And its kind 
of like AZzce in Wonderland, where 
the deeper down they go, the 
deeper down it grows, like the 
whole cast is descending into hell.
Fairly interesting flick.
Nine dead bodies. Rat-on-aplate. Human arm and leg eaten 
by rat. Knife to the gut. Bloodlicking. Kung Fu. Rat Fu. Fire 
hose Fu. Sledgehammer Fu. Diet 
Pepsi Fu. Drive-In Academy 
Award nominations for Brad 
Dourif, the exterminator who
witnessed Viet Congrats chew up1 
American soldiers, for saying T 
dont mind telling you, this place, 
is infested; Ilona Margolis, as 
the bimbo who says Thisll teach 
you to fire me! right before shes 
eaten alive by rats; and Stephen 
Macht, the guy from Cagney and 
Lacey, as the devil.
Three stars. Joe Bob says check 
it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only Drive-In movie critic from 
Grapevine Texas.
Antigone takes a fresh look at a classic tragedy
By TERRI KASCH
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
' If you go to see the Kresge pro
duction of Antigone dont be sur
prised if it seems like youve 
stumbled into a dress rehearsal.
1 First, youll notice the con
spicuous lack of any scenery. All 
youll see is an empty stage, a 
back wall without any decor, and 
n iron ladder leading up to the 
cjatwalk. When the actors walk 
dut onstage, they bring their own 
props.
; A few stagehands lay down some 
tape, sectioning off a portion of 
the stage where the action of the 
play will take place. When out
side this taped area, the actors sit 
in chairs and watch the play, al
though they have the worst seats 
in the house, behind the actors.
The actors also dont seem like 
theyre dressed for a play, espe
cially not a Greek tragedy. They 
wear regular clothes: jeans Tshirts, sweaters; apparently 
anything they could find in their 
closets that morning. When they 
are about to enter the play, they 
take simple costumes off a rack of 
clothes and put them on over their 
outfits. Even as they speak their 
lines, their modern outfits peek 
out from underneath their heavy 
coats. After saying their lines, 
they step outside the taped area 
and take off the pieces of their 
costumes.
 Theatre Review 
ANTIGONE. The strong-willed 
daughter of the late King Oedipus 
battles her uncle, King of Thebes, 
over her right to bury her brother. 
Starring Lisa Mathis, Greg Stuhr, 
and W. Ellis Porter. Performances 
until December 8. Call x2407 for 
tickets.
While watching the play, the 
cast acts like regular audience 
members. They sit, relaxed, 
maybe drinking a glass of water, 
but moving as little as possible 
and never talking. Even those 
actors whose characters die do 
not leave the stage, but go right 
back to their seats.
It seems that director Yossi 
Yzraely wanted to focus every last 
bit of attention on the words and 
story of the play. There is nothing 
in the theater to look at except the 
play, nothing to distract your 
thoughts from the scenes in front 
of you.
But what scenes they are. The 
play begins with senior Lisa 
Mathis, as stoic Antigone, vowing 
to bury her brother Polyneices 
even though she will inevitably 
face death for doing so. Her sister 
Ismene (senior Sharon Rosen) 
chooses the safer route and does 
not help her sister with the burial.
Mathis fully brings out the true
courage in Antigone, as well as 
her fatigue and despair. Antigone 
chooses to bury her brother, and 
in doing so, chooses death. She 
explains that it will be easier for 
her to die than to live her life 
because My life is a sea of pain. 
Mathis brilliantly shows 
Antigones inner strength with
out succumbing to melodrama. 
She is like the eye of a hurricane, 
unnervingly calm in the center of 
a stormy life.
The blame for her untimely de
mise falls on Creon, King of 
Thebes. Senior Greg Stuhr takfes 
on the complex role of a man un
able to admit his own wrong or 
take anyone elses advice until 
its too late. Stuhr creates the 
only significant character change 
in the play. Most of the roles un
dergo little alteration, but Creon 
goes from a dangerously proud 
dictator to a staggering, wailing, 
moaning despot with hardly an 
echo of his former self. Stuhrs 
achievement is remarkable. In the 
final scenes the audience all but 
forgets the old Creon, instead, 
they see his broken remains. 
Stuhrs portrayal of Creons 
downfall forces the audience to 
feel for him, especially because 
the outcome of his life was his 
own fault.
Senior W. Ellis Porter has the 
role ofthe chorus, which Sophocles 
meant to represent the people of 
Thebes. Most of Porters lines are
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Sr. Photographer 
Lisa Mathis stars as the noble 
Antigone who mourns the death of 
her brother and Creons unjust laws.
sung, which hardly makes this 
large role any easier. The haunt
ing melody, often sounding ap
propriately like a funeral march, 
has Porters beautiful voice soar
ing all over the scales. Just as the 
play is becoming unbearably de
pressing, Porter steps in and 
sings. Although what he sings is 
hardly cheery, the sound of his 
voice can lift the heaviest of spirits.
Porter has more stage time 
than any other cast member. 
While all the actors are on stage
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Sr. Photographer 
A soldier (Jeff Kubiatowicz) 
hesitantly tells Creon (Greg Stuhr) 
how he found Polyneices buried.
through the whole play, once Por
ter enters the taped area, he does 
not leave. Instead he sits onstage, 
in a chair just like those the au
dience sits in, but operates as 
both a spectator and a player, for 
everything Creon decides also af
fects the people of Thebes. Porter 
must watch and react to each ac
tion and successive consequence, 
always showing remorse for Creon 
and the state that he has brought 
Thebes and his own life to.
If this play can be said to have
such a thing as comic relief, se
nior Jeff Kubiatowicz supplies it. j 
He plays the young soldier saddled 
with the responsibility of telling 
Creon that Polyneices has been 
buried. But before he tells Creon,, 
he makes sure that the King un
derstands that he is not at fault.' 
When Antigone is later caught,' 
the soldier admits that he feels' 
sorry for her, but Ive saved my' 
own skin. Thats what matters.
Senior Ty Taylors performance  
must be seen to be appreciated.. 
He plays the messenger, a part 
which on paper appears to consist1 
solely of someone delivering a few! 
tragic speeches. But Taylor re-' 
enacts the tragedies that he de
scribes, in horrifying, wrenching 
detail.
After the final lines are spoken 
and the stagehands have taken 
the last bits of tape off the stage, 
the actors leave. As the audience 
applauds, they might be able to; 
see a few of the performers slip
ping out the side door of the the- j 
ater. There is no curtain call, no j 
line of smiling actors walking to  
the front of the stage to receive \ 
recognition for their work. Noth-; 
ing at all breaks the somber mood J 
of the play.
The actors leave the stage in! 
the same state as when they ar-, 
rived, with no hint that they ever | 
were there, but the cast cant es- \ 
cape leaving their mark on the j 
audience.
WALTER ZANGER, NOTED ISRAELI JOURNALIST COMES TO CAMPUS 
NOVEMBER 26 - 27, 1990
B'nai B'rith Hillel welcomes you to the following events:
CRISIS IN ISRAELI POLITICS TODAY
VIDEO AND DISCUSSION 
TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 27, 1990 
7:30 pm
FORBES QUADRANGLE ROOM 2K56 
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
CO-SPONSORED BY 
MASADA/STUDENTS FOR ISRAEL
Pizza Outlet
190 N. Craig
Free Delivery
687-9555
(Across from 
Gulf Station)
OPEN 7 DAYS Sun-Thurs llam-lam Fri & Sat llam-2am
VIEW TOWARD PEACE DIALOGUE
MONDAY NOVEMBER 26. 1990 4:00 pm
WILLIAM PITT UNION, 7TH FLOOR LOUNGE 
FIFTH AVENUE AND BIGELOW BLVD 
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
LUNCH WITH RABBI ZANGER
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 27, 1990 12:00 pm
JEWISH CULTURAL CENTER 
131 MARGARET MORRISON APT. CMU 
PLEASE RSVP, 621-8875
Walter Zanger was educated at Amherst College and the Hebrew Union College - Jewish Institute of 
Religion. One of Israels foremost writers, columnist, and creator of film and video programs, Rabbi 
Zangers extensive experience as a guide and lecturer have enabled him to offer unique and 
thought-provoking insights into Israels political struggle. Rabbi Zanger has appeared on a number 
of American and Israeli television and radio talkshows and has written for Israel Scene Magazine, 
and Bible Times Quarterly Magazine.
For more information contact Bnai Brith Hillel, 621-8875.
2 PIZZAS $5.99
2 p'r $7.99
No Coupon Necessary2 2, $9.99
For Limited Time Only
OUR DOUGH IS MADE FRESH DAILY

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990L13
Explore the deranged world of Foolkiller
Ivlarvel Comics has usually been 
I jyiown for conventional superhero 
fare. But over the years, the 
[ traditional comic book company 
[ has come up with a handful of 
eccentric, offbeat books that have 
redefined the superhero. Marvel 
Comics presentation of the 
[ Foolkiller is one such book. So sit 
[back, dear reader, and listen to 
the macabre story of the man 
known only as Foolkiller.
Once upon a time I knew a man 
! who had long hair and worked at 
a hamburger store. He used to fry 
hamburgers and come home to 
his apartment in Queens with 
raw meat underneath his finger1 nails and oil stains on his trousers. 
He had stubble on his chin and 
[poor posture. He was a craterI eyed, sick-looking puppy who was 
[ desperately holding onto what| ever little dignity he still had. He 
| told me his wife left him a long 
time ago, and that he was fired 
| from his job a few months back.
Things werent going well at all 
I for the ugly man. Something had 
to change for him or else he would 
[be strangled by the living nightCOMIC RELIEF
by Waseem Hussain
mare that was his sorry life.
One night he was watching TV, 
some sort of talk show. On it was 
a man, very sophisticated looking, 
in prisoners clothing. Yet when 
the ugly man looked into the 
prisoners stone grey eyes, he 
seemed to be freer than anybody 
that he had ever seen.
He was a man free of lies and 
societys conventional rules of sit
com morality. This was a man 
totally at ease with himself, for he 
had no conscience, and the ugly 
man envied him. The charismatic 
prisoner on TV was what we would 
call a serial killer  he called 
himself a fool killer.
Seems hed been in therapy 
since he was caught and sentenced
to life in an insane asylum. There 
he was on national TV, this 
Foolkiller, sending out an 
alarming message that rang 
frighteningly true ... the world is 
an ugly place, where apathy and 
greed runs rampant.
A world where anything can be 
made true simply by saying it 
over and over enough times. Class
- differences, social injustice, drugs, 
corruption, racism its an ugly 
world out there, filled with fools.
This was the Foolkillers mes
sage to the world, and the ugly 
man was listening.
Finally, said the ugly man to 
himself, someone who under
stands. And thus began his jour
ney down the road to damnation.
Within the month, the ugly man 
began a personal correspondence 
with the Foolkiller. It started off 
small, a letter here, a letter there, 
but soon it became a vigorous 
relationship.
Help me, cried the ugly man, 
and the Foolkiller acknowledged 
his request. It was at this point 
that the ugly man died, and with 
the help of the former serial killer,
he was reborn as the new 
Foolkiller.
After that, I was too afraid to go 
near him, and I never knew ex
actly what happened to him. I 
just knew when that guy who 
beat on old Mrs. Hoskins turned 
up as a pile of ashes, and that 
sweaty bruiser Leroy disap
peared, that the Foolkiller had 
made his rounds.
Seems a comic book company 
on Park Avenue found out about 
this Foolkiller guy and made a 
comic book about him. Pretty good, 
from what Ive seen so far. This 
writer they got, Steve Gerber, 
knows what hes doing. His writ
ing is so realistic, so personal, 
that it makes me wonder some
times if this Gerber guy isnt the 
Foolkiller himself.
The art isnt nothing to shake a 
sawed-off shotgun at either. Art
ist J. J. Birch (formerly known as 
Joe Brosowski) draws a filthy 
world, in which all the characters 
are ugly. There arent any 
muscleboundfolk running around 
in the pages ofFoolkiller, nope, its 
just normal folks like you and me,
1990 Marvel Entertainment Group 
The Foolkiller prepares for some 
serious annihilation.
just trying to get by.
Its the eerie realism of the book 
which really makes it stand out. 
The dialogue is terrific and the 
characters are believable.
All the labels that we would 
stick onto a psychopaths psyche 
disappear since the story is told 
from the Foolkillers point of view.
All of his actions seems frighten
ingly rational, and in a perverted 
sort of way, you just might find,' 
yourself rooting for this extremely 
unstable ugly man. avjiii
If youre hating the world righ^T 
now I wouldnt recommend tliisji 
Youre liable to read it, pick upr.^ 
gun, and kill somebody you ha>te.* 
The story develops very naturally^ 
kind of gets under your skin.#fld 
simmers for awhile. Its unp^e^' 
dictable and successfully avoids^ 
lot of clich traps that othtfT 
vigilante comics often fall iato*/
The comic book people are plan 
ning to tell Foolkillers chilling 
story in ten parts. If you run do\Viyv 
to your comic store now, you migfc^ 
be able to catch the fourth, Q&4 
youre lucky, the third part 
quirky psychological drama. Dont 
be a fool by missing out on hisx 
surprising gem or else!. , r 
Foolkiller and all other cornici
are courtesy of Phantom of.'ttlQ 
Attic. UoH*
Tartan, Senior Staffwriier 
Waseem Hussam is a junior biol 
ogy major. no*g
The Dancers Symposium steps into the spotlight
By DAWN BROSONSKI
I Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
For the student at CMU who 
Iwasinterestedin dance but wasnt 
I majoring in it, the only outlet on 
I campus available in the past was 
1 a class for non-majors with a very 
I limited number of students.
Things are different this seI mester, thanks to a new organiJ zation created by students. The 
I Dancers Symposium provides 
I students with an opportunity to 
I pursue the art of dance by atI tending performances and lecI tures in Pittsburgh and by perI forming themselves.
This is the first time anything 
I like this has been done at CMU, 
Isays H&SS sophomore Lauren 
I Daniluk, who, along with H&SS 
[sophomore Jennifer Hastings, 
J created the Dancers Symposium.
Dance is not really recognized 
I on this campus for non-majors, 
Isays Daniluk. This organization 
I is an outlet for people who arent 
I dance majors but want to experijence dance or perform. Theres a 
[lot of talent on this campus.
We thought a lot about this 
Ilast year, says Hastings. We
 were at the Activities Fair this 
year and we put up a lot of signs 
I around campus. We found a lot of
I interest in this.
One part of the Activities Fair 
Jprocess was getting students to 
up for auditions. Daniluk
and Hastings planned to bring 
student dancers and choreogra
phers together to produce works 
that could be shown on campus;
We had two different types of 
auditions, one for choreographers, 
one for dancers, says Daniluk..
We tried to find choreographers 
who already had works in mind; 
who had music selected, and who 
had a feel for the style of the 
piece, added Hastings.
We chose six students, and we 
have a CMU dance instructor, 
Daria Ward, who is also choreo
graphing for us. The choreogra
phers were then allowed to choose 
the student dancers they wanted 
from the auditions.
Their efforts have proven fruit
ful. The Dancers Symposium has 
put together a show of seven dance 
pieces that will be shown on No
vember 30 and December 1 in the 
Womens Gym.
Its a unique conglomeration
of different types of workmod
ern, ballet, jazz, says Daniluk.
It was a very strong intention 
to mix different types of dance. It 
would be great if in the future we 
could work with people who would 
r offer a huge variety of styles, 
offered Hastings.
Performance is not the only 
feature offered to members. A 
large part of the organizations 
f activities involves attending per
formances in the city.
The organization got subscrip: tions to' the Pittsburgh Dance 
' Council this year, says Daniluk.
; We attended some lectures con
cerning dance. We also saw David 
Gordon, a modern dance chorev ographer, on tour. And we saw 
X Sankai Juku^.a dance company.of 
. five men from Japan.
In addition, Daniluk and 
Hastings provide members with 
information concerning dance 
classes in Pittsburgh. We went 
' to various dance schools, says 
Hastings. We found out prices, 
class times, and so on. We give 
that information to members, and 
they take it from there.
The schools we like, the ones 
we mainly try to affiliate people 
with, are the Oakland School of 
the Performing Arts, the Frick 
School, The Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre, and the Dance Alloy. 
Next year, adds Daniluk, 
were hoping to have some guest 
speakers on campus as well. And
Welcome back CMU students!
COLLEGE SKATING PARTY
Schenley Park Ice Skating Rink
Free admission for CMU students with a valid student ID.
Monday, November 26  9:30 -11:30 p.m.
Season Skating Passes will be available for sale at the rink on this night 
and or at the Skibo Desk. $7.00 buys up to sixty free admissions. 
Sponsored by Citiparks and CMU Student Affairs. For more information 
call: 422-6523 or 6547.
"Its cool to skate!!!
QtipaAg
were hoping to put out a newslet
ter for members.
After the upcoming show, 
Daniluk and Hastings will be 
preparing for next semester. The 
spring will bring once again au
ditions for new dancers and fresh 
ideas.
Anyone who is interested in 
becoming a part of this organiza
tion-, whether it be by dancing or 
appreciating dance, is encouraged 
to call now.
If someone loves dance and is 
prepared to devote two to three 
hours a week to rehearsal, and is
willing to dedicate themselves, 
then we want them. It will be a 
wonderful experience. No one has 
to be an expert dancer to join, but 
we really need people with pro
fessional attitudes, says Daniluk.
You have to be prepared, says 
Hastings. A lot of people had 
trouble committing themselves to 
this. We had people sign up who 
were involved in mime and Afri
can dance and we never heard 
from them again.
We want this variety in our 
organization, but we need dedi
cated people to do it.
It was a good beginningthis 
semester. We started out sihdll? 
but the interest in the Danc^W 
Symposium is growing. Wecai 
only go up from here. . '
The Dancers Symposium 'WiiD' 
be performing in the Womens OyhV 
on November 30 at 8 pm, andin 
December 1, with two shows^t 4 
pm and 8 pm. Tickets, are on^Ue 
at the Skibo Information Des^fck 
$3. They will also be sold at the 
door. For information on the ory 
ganization, please contact Lauren* 
Daniluk at 268-4808.
ATTENTION 
FOREIGN STUDENTS
the Pittsburgh Council 
for International Visitors 
(PCIV)
is arranging
Christmas Day dinners 
with American families
Application Forms are available in 
the Office of International Education 
219 Smith Hall
These forms must be returned to PCIV by 
DECEMBER 7, 1990
11 iKjfJ 
ip f):
mJi 
i Pi Jin
90 
yt tri
?f
! bn
If you plan to travel abroad during the Holidays, 
make sure your I-20 or IAP-66 is properly endorsed. 
If you need a new endorsement, 
DO NOT 
wait until the last minute to visit OIE.

---------------------------------------------------

L14The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990
CMU Philharmonic tour dies due to illness
EUROPE, from page 1
Union, one from Italy, and Carn
egie Mellon  to each perform 
two of the six Tchaikovsky sym
phonies. The Carnegie Mellon 
Philharmonic was chosen as the 
musical representative of the 
United States.
After three intense weeks of 
rehearsal with Delman, the CMU 
Philharmonic gave a magnificent 
performance in Pittsburghs 
Carnegie Music Iiall. Upon 
completion of the project, students 
were told that thirty-five musi
cians from each of the three or
chestras, once again under the 
leadership of Maestro Delman, 
would form an international or
chestra which would tour the 
Soviet Union, Italy, and the 
United States.
Up until this past week, no 
member of the Carnegie Mellon 
Philharmonic had heard anything 
more of the plans.
According to the new plans, the 
international program would in
clude a week of rehearsal time in 
Pittsburgh with Delman, and then 
two and a half weeks of rehearsal 
and concerts in Europe. There
Wolves 
grips the 
viewer
WOLVES, from page Lll
Over the years McDonnell hasnt 
done a lot of work in film; her 
experience lies more in stage 
work. The transition probably 
wasnt easy to make, but 
McDonnell did it effortlessly. She 
speaks the Sioux dialect fluently 
and does a very good job convey
ing broken English as well. Most 
of all, though, the chemistry be
tween McDonnell and Costner is 
magnificent. There couldnt have 
been a better casting.
As time goes on, Dunbar slowly 
begins to win over the Sioux, but 
is 1 seriously hampered by the 
coinmunication problem. How
ever, Dunbar gets help from 
Stands With A Fist as an inter
preter  it turns out she was a 
wliite settler who was adopted by 
the Sioux when her family was 
slaughtered by Indians. Through 
her, Dunbar begins to win the 
trijst of the tribe, a trust which is 
ensured when Dunbar leads the 
Si6ux to a herd of buffalo.
The buffalo hunt is one of the 
films most spectacular scenes, 
and one which no doubt contrib
uted to the $2 million gap be
tween the films budget and its 
actual expenditures. It is inter
esting to note that Costner for
feited almost half of his salary for 
Dances With Wolves in order to 
make up the budget difference,
would be two performances in 
each nation.
The chosen members could not 
contain their surprise and ex
citement.
It was totally surprising. I 
didnt even know if it was going to 
happen. They [the music depart
ment] told us maybe there will be 
a project. I said to myself this 
cannot work anymore in Novem
ber. Im very excited ... and en
thusiastic, said second year 
graduate cellist Lourdes Lecuona.
Its going to be a great oppor
tunity. Im really looking forward 
to the trip and interested in 
finding out about the different 
levels of musicianship, said jun
ior Larry Lucas, a trumpet player.
When the whole thing hap
pened so fast, I thought it was 
going to fall through. But when I 
got the letter, I thought wow, this 
really happened, said Lynn 
Johnson, a first year graduate 
bassoon player.
In the excitement, all problems 
with the project that may have 
surfaced were overlooked. The 
congratulatory letter stated that 
there was still a slight chance
that it may not be possible to 
resolve all the difficulties.
What may have been least ex
pected occurred. Four days after 
the trip was announced, it came 
to an abrupt end.
In a Music Department meeting 
Friday and in a memo sent out to 
students, Thomas announced that 
the international orchestra 
project had to be cancelled  
Delman had fallen seriously ill.
On October 26, Delman col
lapsed at a concert and was placed 
in the hospital for ten days. Un
der doctors orders, he will not be 
able to conduct until the end of 
January. The project could not be 
rescheduled for a new time frame 
because of date conflicts with the 
halls in which the RAI concerts 
would be held in Milan and Mos
cow.
We couldnt reschedule the tour 
because of coordination with the 
conservatories in Moscow and 
Milan, and our schedule was im
possible. January was the only 
time we could do it, stated Tho
mas.
The question arose about 
whether Delman could be replaced
Ben Glass/1990 Orion Pictures 
Lt. John Dunbar (Kevin Costner) returns the injured Stand With A Fist 
(Mary McDonnell) to her camp.
showing his true devotion to see 
this film through.
The title of th e film comes about 
while Dunbar is assimilated into 
the tribe. Hes given the new name 
Dances With Wolves during a 
scene in which the Sioux catch 
him playing with his pet wolf 
Two Socks. It is at this point in 
which Dunbar proceeds to leave 
his former life behind and become 
a part of the Sioux village, but not 
without some hardships and 
struggles ahead.
Costner does a great job of rec
reating the look of the Old West, 
both in terms of the American 
and Indian cultures. He uses authe picture an even stronger feel 
of authenticity. Graham Greene 
and Rodney A. Grant are espe
cially noteworthy in the fire-andice roles of Kicking Bird and Wind 
In His Hair. Kicking Bird, the 
tribal holy man, is the thinker, 
while Wind In His Hair is the 
tribes best warrior.
Matter of fact, I cant think of a 
single thing that was wrong with 
this film. Costner has truly set a 
precedent to which future movies 
will be compared for a long time 
to come.
Dances With Wolves is the one 
film everyone should make time 
to see on the big screen. For that
thentic Sioux language (with matter, see it three or four times.
subtitles), and consulted experts 
extensively when recreating the 
Sioux culture. The portrayal is so 
realistic that Costner was adopted 
by the Sioux in honor of his efforts.
Superb performances by the 
Indian characters in the film gave
Dances With Wolves features 
great story, incredible acting all 
around, and an amazing recre
ation of the American frontier. 
Dont let the length scare you away 
 youll come out wishing there 
was more.
Predator 2 provides family fun
PREDATOR, from page Lll
Grandma: Im sorry. Anyway, 
in ;the opening scene, there is this 
excellent car flip. Watch for it. 
Other good action scenes include 
a chase scene that is very remi
niscent of Die Hard with the el
evator and the climbing all over 
the place. I was disappointed in 
on;e scene that they copied from 
Alfens. The predator was in this 
warehouse and these dudes didnt 
set him. Another guy in the con
trol room didnt have the guts to 
pull them out, so the good guy 
went in after them. It was a stolen 
scene. Very unprofessional. 
(Tartan: Thats good. What did 
yo;u think of the rest of the movie? 
There had to be more than just 
action.
Grandma: The sex scene was 
good. Nice zoom.
Tartan: What about the movie 
as a whole?
Grandma: The atmosphere of 
the movie was awesome. You 
could tell Joel Silver had his hand 
in; there.
^Tartan: Joel Silver? 
grandma: He produced Comtnfrfido, 48 Hours, both Lethal 
Weapons, both Die Hards, and 
now both Predators. His style is 
unmistakable. The whole thing is
very industrial, high-voltage, gutwrenching. You know, with the 
steam issuing forth from random 
pipes, flashing strobe lights, the 
whole bit. Theres another great 
action sequence in a subway with 
flashing lights. Unmistakably 
Silver.
Tartan: What about the other 
production people? Any big 
names?
Grandma: Lawrence G. Pauli 
was the production designer. Hes 
good. He was nominated for an 
Oscar for his work on Blade 
Runner. The original writers, Jim 
& John Thomas, are back, and 
Silvers two co-producers from 
Predator are back  Lawrence 
Gordon (48 Hours, Field of 
Dreams) and John A. Davis {Li
cense to Drive, The Last of the 
Finest).
Tartan: Grandpa, what did you 
think of the movie?
Grandpa: I missed most of it 
because of my trips to the bath
room, but I enjoyed what I saw. 
Tartan: Aunt Bessie, what did 
you think of the movie?
Aunt Bessie: It sucked. Arnold 
wasnt in it. I really wanted to see 
his sweaty naked torso. His bulg
ing biceps, his....
Tartan: Thank you, Aunt
Thomas announced that the interna
tional orchestra project had to be 
cancelled  Delman had fallen seri
ously ill.
with another conductor, but this 
would be against best judgement.
We thought about trying to find 
a substitute conductor, but 
Delman was really the link be
tween all the orchestras, said 
Thomas.
Losing the opportunities to see 
the culturally different Europe, 
to musically intermesh with the 
Italian and Russian string, brass, 
and woodwind players, and to 
work with Delman again, was a 
dismaying experience. Although 
many students did not like 
Delmans technique of teaching 
the orchestra, they could not deny 
that he was a great conductor 
who had taught them much about 
music.
Delman was very enthusiastic 
... very emotional. It was a good 
experience to work on the music
with him. The work was so in
tense, said Christine Page, a 
junior flute player.
Delman was truly an amazing 
man. He had a lot to offer. He is a 
Tschaikovsky expert. He brought 
out the best in everyone, said 
Lucas.
Delman was really demand
ing. When he tried to adjust a 
rehearsal, he wasnt really good, 
because he could hurt people with 
the way he said things. On the 
other hand he had the joyness to 
work with young people and he 
knew perfectly how to get the best 
out of all of us. Sometimes we are 
kind of lazy when we play and we 
need enthusiasm in the music. 
Things he told us to do were a new 
world, said Lecuona.
According to Thomas there is a 
possibility that another tour will
be organized for next year, but 
not much will be said about it j 
the near future.
The Milan conservatory ha 
suggested that we reschedule f0r; 
next year. We are considering it a; 
cancellation because we don't 
want to build up students h( 
and dash them again. It is possible 
that  if everything goes well 
the project will be started again1 
next year, said Thomas.
Although the trip plans were! 
short-lived, it is important for A 
participants to know that therein 
hope for reorganization of the 
project and that they should be. 
proud of their previous involve, 
ment in the international project'.
We are always looking for jn. 
temational opportunities and will 
continue to do so. Success in this 
one portion will make it more 
likely that well be tapped for 
others. Delman is extremely dis^ 
appointed, but he told us that the 
two productions our students 
completed are extraordinary  
and he is quite picky. The success 
of the United States portion ofthe 
project is a real tribute to our 
students, said Thomas.
Little Lady is no Baby
LITTLE LADY, from page Lll
Mary is a cute fixture in the 
movie, providing some of her own 
moments. Especially humorous 
is the scene when Mary announces 
quite loudly in a restaurant her 
new-found knowledge of sex, and 
the subsequent looks of panic on 
the dads faces.
For a sequel, Three Men and a 
Little Lady is not bad. But like 
always, its not nearly as good as 
the first one. If you enjoyed Three 
Men and a Baby, youll still like 
this one, but youll miss the fresh
ness and originality from the first 
time around.
Fortunately, the movie does not 
try to capitalize too much on the 
successes of the first one. A couple 
of times, however, lines that 
worked in Three Men and a Baby 
now go over like dead weight.
Another problem is the focus of 
the movie. Mary, Michael, and 
Jack (Guttenberg and Danson) 
are more minor characters. The 
movie would have been more 
properly titled, Peter and Sylvia 
and Peters Two Friends and
Sylvias Daughter. I would, have 
been happy to see more of a con
centration on the relationship 
between the dads and,Mary. In
stead, it chronicles the budding 
relationship between Peter 
Sylvia.
So, it is the holidays, and if you 
feel your life is too serious and 
realistic and you need a gooddos; 
age of fluff to tide you over until 
next year, go ahead and see Three 
Men and a Little Lady. And while 
youre there, you might get a few 
genuine laughs.
((THE BEST AMERICAN MOVIE THIS YEAR!
FUNNY, TOUCHING AND VITAL!
-Peler Travers, ROLLING STONE Magazine
ONE OF THE MOST POWERFUL FILMS IVE SEEN THIS YEAR!
Joel Siegel, ABC-TV
WONDERFULLY FUNNY AND HEARTBREAKING.
IT'S O.K. TO LAUGH, AND, AT THE END, ITS O.K. TO CRY."
-Richard Corliss, TIME Magazine
Bessie. Billy, what did you think? 
Billy: I thought it was reeeal 
cool! Stan Winston is back! 
Tartan: Stan Winston?
Billy: Hes the man! He cre
ated the make-up effects for for 
this movie and the original, you 
know, like the predators head, 
the stiffs n stuff. He won an 
academy award for his creature 
designs in the movie Aliens. The 
special effects were cool too! When 
the predator used his cloaking 
device it was a real convincing 
effect similar to the first movie, it 
was used a lot. This movie wasnt, 
like, a special effects orgasm or 
anything, but....
Mother: BILLY!
Billy: ....I mean they didnt 
overdo it with the effects. 
Tartan: Thank you all for your 
time and comments. 
Unfortunately, on the way 
home, the Hutchinsons stopped 
at a Dunkin Donuts and they 
were all lulled in a bizarre pastry 
accident. We would like to extend 
our sympathies to the relatives of 
the Hutchinson family and give 
Predator 2 four stars.
Not that were putting it on the 
same level as Gone With the Wind, 
but we do feel that it deserves 
four stars.
REMARKABLE!
David Ansen, NEWSWEEK Magazine
BRILLIANT!
Rex Reed
????!FreCatloCg,S! roPEaB!
David Patrick Stearns, USA TODAY
TWO THUMBS UP!
Siskel & Ebert
????!
AN EXCEPTIONAL MOVIE.
-Marshall Fine, GANNETT NEWSPAPERS
THE SAMUEL GOLDWYN COMPANY... AMERICAN PLAYHOUSE' THEAIRICAL FILMS......."LONGTIME COMPANION"
SIEPHEN CAFFRFV PAIHICK CASSIDY BRIAN COUSINS BRUCE DAVISON JOHN OOSSEIT 
MARK IAMDS OEHMOI MULRONEY MABY-LOUISE PARKER MICHAEL SCHDEFfLING CAMPBELL SC01I
r.Ci'SlOHY JANNEELI u.u KATHERINE WENNING i,  .....LYDIA DEAN PILCHER i;;;!:1.! LINDSAY LAW
...... CRAIG LUCAS....NORMAN RENII SIAN WIODKOWSKI
Wednesday, Nov. 28: 6 pm - DH 1112
9 pm - DH 2210
Thursday, Nov. 29: 8 and 10 pm - Porter
Hall 100
Sponsored by Division of Student Affairs and 
Activities Board

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  19 November 1990L15
Il Itati If ISf
Thursday, November 29
Swimming to Cambodia
Written and starred in by little-known actor 
Spalding Gray, Swimming to Cambodia is more like 
listening to a radio show than watching a movie. 
The idea is simple  for just under two hours, we 
ivatch Gray sit behind a desk, with only a glass of 
water and a microphone, and relate his experiences 
while shooting The Killing Fields. Although Gray 
played only a minor role in that film, in this one hes 
the whole show  and the effect is tremendous. 
Director and producer Jonathan Demme had the 
d sense to stay out of the way of Grays 
storytelling; as a result, Swimming to Cambodia 
has an essentially human feeling Gray could be
neighbor relating what he witnessed and heard.
Set the VCR to record Cheers and go spend a dollar 
on this flick.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, November 30
Young Guns II
A product of Hollywoods most recent sequel 
spree, Young Guns II has something in it to disgust 
everybody. If you haye taste in music, youll be 
turned off by Jon Bon Jovis soundtrack filled with 
nothing but major chords. If you have a sense of 
tradition, youll be disturbed by the very idea of 
setting a Western to a driving rock beat. If youre 
looking for an exciting plot, youll fall asleep. And if 
you want characterization or meaning, forget it. 
About the only thing you will find here is self-aggrandizement for stars Emilio Estevez, Kiefer 
Sutherland, Lou Diamond Phillips, et al. (Charlie 
Sheen is the only actor in the original to escape this 
banal film  he was lucky enough to be killed off 
before the sequel.)
Even if you have nothing better to do, stay at 
home and brush your hair  youll deriv a much 
greater feeling of satisfaction.
' At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, December 1
Hard to Kill
This film takes its title very seriously. The movie 
begins with a bunch of bad guys pumping lots of 
lead into martial arts master Steven Seagal and his 
onscreen wife. They obliterate her and wound him. 
Seven years later, Seagal snaps out of that darn 
coma hes been in all this time, well-rested and 
ready to seek his revenge. With the help of a friend 
and his lusty nurse (Seagals real wife, Kelly 
LeBrock), he hunts down the pack that tried to kill him.
The next hour or so consists of your basic action/ 
lamgfu/adventure fare. Lots of blood, cracked skulls, 
gunplay, flying limbs, broken glass, high pitched 
screams your basic stuff.
Hard to Kill doesnt have all that much in the plot 
department, but in a film like this, what more do you need?
At 6, 8,10,12
Sunday, December 2
Silverado
The classic Western comes back to a generation 
who could only view it before on the television, 
awrence Kasdan, writer oiRaiders of the Lost Ark, 
directs this shoot -em-up western, which stars such 
names as Kevin Costner, Danny Glover, Kevin Hein, and Scott Glenn.
. These four hombres go to the small town of 
Silverado, each in search of a place to settle down. 
f>ut what they get is a town run by a crooked sheriff, 
?nd terrorized by a vicious group of desperados. So 
0ur fur heros, guided by a sense of right and a ?nioking gun, do what they can to bring a little law 
^nd order to their part of the West.
Go see Silverado  their adventure will keep you 
 the edge of your seat, like a rattler ready to
strike.
At 7. 9:30,12
B fc
^ TERRI KASCH, HOWDY PIERCE, &
tebabsufl
TV BREAK
A summary of upcoming episodes 
of Carnegie Mellons favorite TV 
shows.
Regular Network Programs
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Woody stars in a 
commercial for anew vegetable drink, 
while Cliffs self-esteem is crushed 
when the popularity of the bars new 
trivia napkins gets out of hand.
DOCTOR, DOCTOR. Thursday at 
9:30 pm, channel 2 (CBS). Matt dis
covers that Grants dating the offices 
new young receptionist, and he sud
denly decides that shes just not 
working out.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
Not being shown due to Crocodile 
Dundee.
THE FLASH. Thursday at 8:30 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). A drug lord and 
his henchmen are behind Barrys 
mysterious blackouts, which happen 
to coincide with odd disturbances in a 
local neighborhood where residents 
dont discount superstitious beliefs.
FRESH PRINCE OF BEL-AIR. 
Monday at 8 pm, channel 11 (NBC). A 
holiday visit from Wills cost-conscious 
mother puts the kibosh on conspicu
ous consumption and puts the family 
to work like never before.
L.A. LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Kelseys case seeks 
to punish the parents of a skinhead 
who killed a black youth'; a drug 
addicts father pressures Abby to put 
his-son behind bars; a frog-jumping 
demonstration in the courtroom dis
plays the qualifications of an over
sized entrant; and Benny tries to sell 
his baseball-card collection. (Repeat)
MURPHY BROWN. Monday at 9 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). Murphy be
comes the little reporter who cried 
wolf when shes kidnapped by a 
bumbling band of eco-terrorists in 
faux sheeps clothing.
QUANTUM LEAP. Friday at 8
pm, channel 11 (NBC). Not being 
shown due to Penn & Teller.
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 8 
pm, channel 53 (WPGH). Bart runs 
away from home on Thanksgiving 
Day after accidentally destroying 
Lisas historical centerpiece.
STAR TREK: THE NEXT GEN
ERATION. Sunday at 6 pm, channel 
22 (WPTT). In honor of Wesleys ac
ceptance into the Starfleet Academy, 
Picard asks him to come on a mission 
to Pentarus Five, but theyre forced 
to make an emergency landing on a 
lifeless moon, where Picard is criti
cally injured.
THIRTYSOME THING. Tuesday 
at 10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). Not being 
shown due to Stephen Kings It.
TWIN PEAKS. Saturday at 10 pm, 
channel 4 (ABC). Not being shown 
due to College Football.
THE WONDER YEARS. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
Not being shown due to Crocodile 
Dundee.
Special Programs
BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE 
CHINA. Tuesday at 8 pm, channel 
53 (WPGH). Director John Carpenter 
attempts to blend comedy, martial 
arts, adventure, and horror into a 
comic-book tale of intrigue in San 
Franciscos Chinatown. Starring Kurt 
Russell, Kim Cattrall, Dennis Dun, 
James Hong, and Victor Wong.
CIRCUS OF THE STARS. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). 
Whoopi Goldberg, Robert Urich, Joan 
Van Ark, and Ricard Crenna are the 
ringmaster for the 15th annual edi
tion, where you can see Richard 
Simmons spin plates, Linda Blair 
walk barefoot over broken glass, and 
Bill Kirchenbauer assist jugglers. A 
nail-biter of an evening if there ever 
was one.
CROCODILE DUNDEE.
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
Gday, mate! Check out the big hit
from Down Under where a swampsmart Aussie (Paul Hogan) teams up 
with a streetwise Yank (Linda 
Kozlowski) for adventures in the 
outback and New York City.
ESCAPE FROM ALCATRAZ. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 22 
(WPTT). Clint Eastwood in an out
standing prison film based on a 1962 
incident at the maximum-security 
institution. Starring Patrick 
McGoohan, Robert Blossom, and Jack 
Thibeau.
HAIRSRAY. Monday at 8 pm, 
channel 53 (WPGH). A comedy about 
a plump teen who becomes a sensa
tion on a 1960s dance show. Starring 
Ricki Lake, Divine, Sonny Bono, 
Debbie Harry, and Pia Zadora. Di
rected by John Waters.
MUPPETS CELEBRATE JIM 
HENSON. Wednesday at 8 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). A saluting to the 
late muppeteer that includes Ray 
Charles rendition of Bein Green 
and excerpts from letters written by 
Henson- admirers. Youll probably 
need to break out the Kleenex for this 
one.
AN OFFICER AND A GENTLE
MAN. Monday at 8 pm, channel 22 
(WPTT). Richard Gere, Debra Winger, 
and Louis Gossett Jr. star in the boxoffice hit about the basic training of a 
Navy pilot.
PEE-WEES BIG ADVENTURE. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 53 
(WPGH). Pee-wee Herman (A.K.A. 
Paul Reubens) travels the country in 
search for his missing bike. Starring 
Elizabeth Daily and Mark Holton.
PENN & TELLER. Friday at 8 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Everyones favor
ite bad boys of magic are back. In
cluded are Penns fake body ex
ploding as his partner pelts him with 
marshmallows; Jane Curtin per
forming the Infected Ear Trick; 
Victorja Jackson watching as Penn 
tries to drive a truck loaded with 
concrete over Tellers chest; Teller
attempting to remove the bait from a- r 
variety of animal traps; and a young 
woman joins Penn in a romantic dis-. 
play of fire-eating.
PERRYMASON: THE CASE pF"  
THE MUSCIAL MURDER. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 11 '
(NBC). Mason (Raymond Burr) must 'r'' 
this time unravel the mystery behind 
a backstage whodunit centering on : > 
the slaying of a director. A1989 TVmovie repeat. Starring Debbie 
Reynolds, Jerry Orbach, Philip Ster
ling, William R. Moses.
PLANES, TRAINS AND 
AUTOMOBLLES. Tuesday at 9 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). John Hughes1987 
travesty of travel where an odd couple 
of travelers (Steve Martin and John . 
Candy) try  against every contriv- \ 
ance Hughes can come up with  to 
get to their respective homes for - 
Thanksgiving.
SERPICO. Tuesday at 8 pm, 
channel 22 (WPTT). Al Pacino stars 
as undercover policeman Frank 
Serpico, the man who exposed wide- . 
spread graft in the New York City--. 
Police Department in 1971.
STEPHEN KINGS IT.Tuesday, ' 
at 9 pm, channel 4 (ABC). It concludes, 
tonight when the members of the 
lucky seven join forces back in their 
home town to combat the evil  
Pennywise. Starring Tim Curry, Ri-' 
chard Thomas, Annette OToole , John ~ 
Ritter, Tim Reid, Harry Anderson, 
Dennis Christopher, Olivia Hussey; 
Michael Cole, and Ricard Masur.
THANKSGIVING DAY PA
RADE. Thursday at 9 am, channel . ' 
11 (NBC). One of the Nations mosfc..o 
enduring holiday traditions steps off-,/' 
for the 64th time. Bart Simpson gets .... 
the big-balloon treatment this year, 
along with perennial favorites ,  
Snoopy, Bugs Bunny, and Kermit the / 
Frog.
Compiled by 
STEPHEN GLICKER
Conversation with Evil, 
parts 4 to 6 ...
Boop: What is you 
purpose in life?
Evil: I just fuck and take 
up space ...
Boop: What is your ideal 
girl?
Evil: A girl with three 
tits and legs seven feet 
long.
Boop: Hey, what do you 
think of that cute blond? 
Evil: Dont worry ... 
Boop: Huh?
Oinky,
Happy ONE month!! (In 
our opinion, that is)
Love ya
I miss you TOILET.
See you on Sunday.
Part 2: The Qualities of a 
Good Man
3. Has good sense of 
humor
4. Good communication 
skills (oral)
5. Good communication 
skills (physical)
6. Does not already have 
girlfriend
7. Trusts me
8. Other women are hot 
for him, but...
9. He remains faithful 
... more to come ...
Blaq Katt,
Who are you? Am I the 
invisible woman? Why 
am I invisible?
B.
Love (Indian),- 
Why is the grass greener 
on the other side (espe
cially when its plenty 
green in your own yard)? 
Confused and idiotic
Fart... to coin a phrase.
Giardina,
Leave M. alone!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Sjoy,
2 months, 1 day, and 
approximately 12 hours 
when you read this. You 
are awesome.
Scaredy-cat
Meg,
Willst du mir heiraten?
POSITIVE POSITIVE 
POSITIVE.
(In and out of the house) 
 brought to you by your 
PMS chair (didnt expect 
to see me here, did you?)
If Betty Finns fairy 
godmother made her cool, 
do you think shed still 
hang out with her 
dweebette friends? Uh^-uh. 
No way. Michelob Dry, 
cheese puffs, and The 
Sucks Family. Thanks, 
guys. Youre great.
Neil,
The rugburn on your 
knees is nothing compared 
to what youll experience 
next time. And I do only 
bite people I like.
Katie went with Steve to 
see a movie. What the fuck 
is happening?
Iso,
Ive been thinking about 
you way too much lately. I 
miss you  give me a call. 
PLEASE!!!
My real life version of a 
miniature wobbly toy,
A date sounds great! I 
want to figure out your 
wobble factor.
your favorite SENIOR 
Mech E
Life. Love. See-through un
derwear.
My love has gone behind 
my sun.
Since you left the darkness 
has begun.
The smile that used to shine 
on me \
is nothing more than a 
memory.
I see her face, I hear her 
voice;
She made a move, I had no 
choice.
And the clouds hang low 
and the flower that used to 
grow
in my heart is dying now.
... dying now ...
... dying now ...
B.A.
Hey, I understand. I saw 
Fiddler on the Roof.
J,
So I guess M is your big 
secret. Why didnt you 
tell us?
your friends.
Orange.
M,
TOOT-TOOT!!!
Like, Choo-Choo
Women,
Talking to the canoe 
driver aint all its cracked 
up to be.
Hoss & P.D.
Hey, you Iotas! Stop 
reading Vox Populi and 
get your signatures and 
tasks done! Im serious!
A concerned Iota prez.
In the immortal words of 
Socrates ... I drank 
what?
The girl who received my 
message over broadcast, 
Look BABE (not), I 
seriously doubt that I am 
actually trying to pick up 
a girl over the computer. 
Im not desperate. There 
are plenty of Pitt chicks 
just down the road. And 
just remember rules 37, 
37a, &37b.
Vinny(for those in the 
know) 
The Hottest guy in 
Schlag (for everyone else)
Yeah, I heard about the 3 
to 1 male to female ratio. 
The quantity is here, so 
wheres the quality?
Hey FlyCrap pledges, 
Quit whining ... you got 
to keep the fence.
Becky,
Just thought you should 
know, I find you ex
tremely attractive ...
CREHAN...
Beautiful female ChemE 
major in Margaret 
Morrison who wont 
respond to my broadcast 
messages,
You cant ignore me any 
longer. I love your liberal 
views and I think I love 
you. I want to give you a 
present of my affection. 
Your Broadcast Man
Dear Men and Women on 
the nih. floor of 
Morewood,
Thank you for your 
donations. The founda
tion is looking into an 
electronic mussle which 
will send shocks to 
Giardinias Balls when
ever he mutters a sound.
If you have any other 
ideas, post them to the 
Vox.
ImageMaster
Welcome to the Vox 
Populi intermission. 
Simply turn on your 
radio and enjoy comfort
ing music for 30 seconds, 
turn it off, and continue 
your reading. Have a nice 
day.
Beautiful,
Frankly my dear, I do 
give a damn! Happy 
Anniversary!
Love, Obsession
N: I finally did it!
J: You finally got laid?
N: No stupid ... I got a 
NeXT! I could get laid 
anytime ...
Hey Bagelmeister,
Why dont you ever bring 
over bagels? We have 
plenty of cream cheese ...
Once, just once, I wish I 
could read Vox Populi 
without suffering through 
the complaints of the 
mechanical engineers on 
campus. The rest of us have 
just as much work. We grin 
and bear it. Why cant you 
do the same??
Defend yourself against the 
worries,
Try to have fun.
Party on until your 
numbers picked,
But beware cause the fight 
is fixed.
It was them but you could 
be next.
Paranoia saves lives,
So if you wanna exist,
Get your head round this 
... Thats how it is.
Aztec Camera
Dean (a.k.a. the guy in 
physics),
You can leave your hat on
Paul,
Ringo.
George
LJ
Yo Wozzle Masters!
New words, eh? How 
about derenack? Or better 
yet, DereNACK? Moo.
Cow & Co. 
Ray D.,
They couldn't have done it 
without you!
the reporter

---------------------------------------------------

BBS
Theatre
Music
6 2MM1 BWBiem -te04TtFBO swSV 
Metropolitan, Whit Stillman's witty film about a group of New York preppies and debs 
who discuss life and love in the '90s, plays at the Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 and 
9:30 pm from now until December 6. Admission is $4.
Films
Admission for all DH 2210 films is $1 with 
CMU ID, $2 without.
Swimming to Cambodia, a film about a 
actor whose thoughts span the globe in a 
dizzying odyssey, will play in DH 2210 
Thursday, November 29, at 6, 8, and 10 pm. 
Directed by Jonathan Demme.
Young Guns II, a Western action-adventure, will play in DH 2210 Friday, November 
30, at 6, 8, 10, and midnight. Stars Emilio 
Estevez, Kiefer Sutherland, Lou Diamond 
Phillips, and Christian Slater.
Hard to Kill, a movie filled with plenty of 
good-natured gunplay and death, will play in 
DH 2210 Saturday, December 1, at 6, 8,10, 
and midnight. Stars Steven Segal.
Silverado, a Western about men who clean 
up a frontier town, will play in DH 2210 
Sunday, December 2, at 7, 9:30, and mid
night. Stars Kevin Kline, Scott Glenn, Kevin 
Costner, and John Cleese.
Guns, Death, and Ethics: The Police 
View of Gun Control, a lecture by Massad 
Ayoob, director of the Lethal Force Institute, 
will be given Monday, December 3, at 3:30 pm 
in the Wherrett Room. Part of the Presidents 
Distinguished Lecture Series.
VPI-5: The First Molecular Sieve with 
Pores Larger than 10A, a lecture by Mark 
E. Davis of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute 
and State University, will be given Tuesday, 
December 4, at 10:45 am in Doherty Hall 
1112. Part of the Department of Chemical 
Engineerings Fall 1990 Seminar Program.
Unconscious Influences: Conscious 
Control as a Different Score,a lecture by 
Larry Jacoby of McMaster University, will be 
given Thursday, December 6, at 4 pm in 
Baker Hall 336-D. Part of the Department of 
Psychologys Colloquium Series.
LecturesCulture
Womens Basketball. The womens team 
will play Case Western Reserve University 
tomorrow at 6 pm. The team will also play the 
Thanksgiving Tournament Saturday and 
Sunday afternoons against Hiram, PomonaPitzer, and Swarthmore. Next week, the team 
will play NYU Friday, November 30, at 6 pm. 
All games will be played in the gym.
Mens Basketball. The mens team will play 
Case Western Reserve University tomorrow 
at 8 pm, Pomona-Pitzer College Friday at 2 
pm, Thiel College Tuesday, November 27, at 
7:30 pm, and New York University Friday, 
November 30, at 8 pm. All games will be 
played in the gym.
The Pittsburgh Steelers visit New York 
Sunday to play the Jets at 4 pm. Next week, 
the Steelers will battle the Cincinnati Bengals 
for the last time this season in an AFC Cen
tral showdown Sunday, December 2, at 1 pm 
in Three Rivers Stadium. All games will be 
shown on NBC-affiliate WPXI, Channel 11.
NHL action with the Pittsburgh Pen
guins. The Pens will play the Philadelphia 
Flyers Wednesday. Also, the Pens will face 
off against the Washington Capitals Satur
day, the Edmonton Oilers Tuesday, Novem
ber 27, and the Hartford Whalers Thursday, 
November 29. All games are at 7:35 pm in the 
Civic Arena. Tickets range from $16 to $26. 
Call 333-SEAT for ticket information.
W.W.F. Wrestling. The Ultimate Warrior 
will pretend to fight Macho King Randy Sav
age Saturday at 1:30 pm in the Civic Arena. 
Tickets range from $9 to $13. Call 333-SEAT 
for more information.
Managing Time will be given today at 
12:30 pm in Hamburg Hall 1001. Partici
pants must register at x3356. A Graduate 
Student Luncheon Seminar.
Why Cant Students Influence Environ
mental Policy? This round table discus
sion led by Greg McRae on how university 
students can have an impact on the U.S. 
environmental policy-making process will be 
held today at 4:30 pm in Porter Hall 125B. 
Sponsored by Student Pugwash.
Industrialization at a Turning Point: 
Organizing Economic Innovation in the 
New Europe, a lecture by Hugo Thiemann, 
director of Industrial Innovations and Coop
erative Systems, will be given Monday, No
vember 26, at 3:30 pm in the Wherrett Room. 
Part of the Presidents Distinguished Lec
ture Series.
Different Trains and Beyond, a lecture 
by Steve Reich, will be given Monday, No
vember 26, at 7:30 pm in the Carnegie Lec
ture Hall. This lecture is the third part of the 
Department of Arts Robert Lepper Distin
guished Lectures in Creative Inquiry.
The Magneplane Concept: Five Times 
the Traffic at Four Times the Speed, a
lecture by Henry Kolm, former director of 
MITs Francis Bitter National Magnet Labo
ratory, will be given Tuesday, November 27, 
at 4 pm in the Adamson Wing of Baker Hall. 
A joint EPP/SUPA seminar.
Hypersonic Computational Fluid Dy
namics in Propulsion, a lecture by Meng' Sing Liou of the Internal Fluid Mechanics 
Division of the NAS A-Lewis Research Center, 
will be given Wednesday, November 28, at 
3:15 pm in the Scaife Hall Auditorium. Part 
of the Department of Mechanical 
Engineerings Guest Lecture Series.
Edith Balas, art historian and CMU faculty 
member, will speak Wednesday, November 
28, at 5:30 pm in Margaret Morrison A14. 
Part of the Art Departments Fall 1990 Lec
ture .Series.
Newman: The Thinker and the Writer,
a lecture by Reverend Ian Ker of Oxford 
University, will be given Wednesday, No
vember 28, at 7:30 pm in the William Pitt 
Union Assembly Room. Part of the Cardinal 
John Henry Newman Lecture Series.
Architectural Brochures: History, Hype, 
and Graphic Design, an exhibit of archi
tectural promotional materials from the 
Pittsburgh region dating from the 1890s to 
the present, has been surfaced from the ar
chives of CMUs Architecture Department 
and will be displayed until Friday, November 
30. The materials will'be displayed on the 
fourth floor of the Hunt Library.
The Annual Parade of Trees. This sea
sonal display of over 35 trees decorated for 
local charities will be shown until January 4 
at the Sheraton Inn, Greensburg. Call 836- 
6060 for more information.
Take a tour on the U.S.S. Requin, a sub
marine docked on the Ohio, until Sunday, 
December 2. The 20 to 30 minute tours run 
from 10 am to 5 pm daily at the Carnegie 
Science Center on the north shore. Admis
sion is $3 for adults, $2 for children ages 3 to 
18. Call 237-3321 for more information.
Next week at The Forbes Gallery: The
works of Jessica Buben, Lizzy Mogel, Paige 
Clark, and Bob Kollar will be exhibited start
ing Tuesday, November 27, and lasting until 
Sunday, December 2. Receptions are held 
Friday evenings from 7 to 9. Call x2081 for 
more information.
A CMU Ballroom Dance Club meeting
will be held Wednesday, November 28, from 
6:30 to 9:30 pm in Thistle Hall in the gym.
The Dancers Symposium will hold its first 
dance concert on Friday, November 30, at 8 
pm and Saturday, December 1, at 4 and 8 pm 
in the Womens Gym. Tickets are on sale at 
the Skibo Information Desk for $3 each.
Spirit Night at the Apollo! This Spiritsponsored talent show will be performed Fri
day, November 30, in the CMU Ballroom. 
Call x8941 for time and ticket price.
Kwanzaa, a Spirit/BGSO-sponsored cultural 
event involving dramatic, musical, and dance 
presentations, will be held Saturday, Decem
ber 1, at 4:30 pm in Wean Hall 7500. The 
event is open to the entire campus community 
and is free. Call Deidre Ferron at x8581 for 
more information.
Attend the Modem Language Progran 
language tables weekly any time 1 
11:30 and 1 pm (unless otherwise noted) 
the Morewood Dining Room. Ranchi 0Nik 
Go De on Mondays, Circolo Italiano Monda 
at noon, Russkaya Beseda Tuesdays atnoi 
La Mesa Espaola Wednesdays, Deutsc. 
Stammtisch Thursdays, and La Ta 
Franaise Fridays.
Scotch *N* Soda needs writers 
for its fall series of writer workshops, 
next meeting will be held in Skibo 60 at 6 
on Thursday, November 29. Call x3522 
more information.
Anonymous HTV testing is available 
appointment in the Student Health Cen 
for $20. Flu shots are also being offered. 
x2157 for more information.
Help at critical times is available at 
Counseling and Student Development^ 
ter in Morewood Gardens E-Tower. Make 
appointment at x2922. After hours em. 
gency service is available.
Walk-in tutoring will be available fors 
dentsneeding help until the beginning 
finals next month. Call the Counseling 
Student Development Center at x2922 
more information.
The Student Advisory Council (SAC 
the Art Department, the forum for art i 
design students, meets today and every ot 
Monday at 4:30 pm in the Student Loiin 
room 404 in CFA.
Religion
Eucharist, at 11:15 am Sunday in 
Lutheran University Center on Forbes 
enue. Contact Ruth Degenkolb at 682-6S 
for more information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory celebra 
Mass on campus every weekend, Saturt 
nights at 7 and Sunday mornings at 10:30 
the Graduate School of Industrial Admit 
tration Auditorium. A solemn Sunday M 
is celebrated at noon Sundays in Hs 
Chapel. Daily Mass is celebrated atl2:30| 
in Carnegie Mellons Chapel (Skibo 39). C 
681-3181 for more information.
Notices
,Home is Where? This Underground Rail
way Theatre production about homelessness 
will be performed tonight at 8 in the Stephen 
Foster Memorial Theatre. Call 261-1130 for 
more information.
Le Bourgeois Avant-Garde, a play by 
Charles Ludiam, will be performed until 
December 16 at the City Theatre. Call 624- 
PLAY for ticket information.
The Nutcracker, Tchaikovskys Christmas
time favorite, will be performed by the Play
house Dance Theatre Thursday, November
29, to Sunday, December 2. Showtimes are 8 
pm for the Thursday, Friday, and Saturday 
performances and 2 and 7 pm on Sunday. 
Tickets are $8 or $10. Call 621-4445 for ticket 
information.
Getting Even, an evening of Woody Allen 
sketches, will be performed by Scotch N 
Soda Friday, November 30, in the Wherrett 
Room. Call x3522 for showtimes.
Pilar Rioja will perform Friday, November
30, and Saturday, December 1, at 8 pm in the 
Stephen Foster Theatre. Enter the Golden 
Age of Spain with fiery Spanish Flemenco 
dancing. Sponsored by the Pittsburgh Dance 
Council. Call 355-0330 for more information.
The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe 
will be performed by the Playhouse Childrens 
Theatre starting Saturday, December 1, and 
lasting until February 3 at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse. Tickets are $5. Call 621-4445 for 
; ticket information.
Holiday Food Drive. The National Socie 
of Black Engineers will locate boxes labe]] 
NSBE in dormitories and department 
fices across campus. Please donate non-p^ 
ishables only. All items will be forwarded 
the Rainbow Kitchen.
Thanksgiving! Take a break from class 
Wednesday through Friday and pig out u 
zip your fly, watch football, and get drunk 
were talking tradition.
NhO0r tShOe5NriWrw fBwtOi ohOWO3irchBi
Lisa Mathis, Sharon Rosen, and Greg Stuhr star in Antigone, Sophocles' classic tale detailing the struggle between the will of 
humanity and the will of God. The play is being performed today and tomorrow at 8 pm and will continue after Thanksgiving from 
November 27 to December 8. Curtain times from Tuesdays to Saturdays are at 8 pm, and Saturday matinees will be performed 
at 2 pm. All shows are in Kresge Theatre. Call x2407 for ticket information.
Gateway Clipper Fleet Thanksgivji 
Day Dinner Cruise. Thanksgiving Day 
the Station Square dock starting at 2 
Call 355-7980 for more information.
The Annual Christmas Kick-Off c 
ebration will take place at PPG Place1 
downtown Friday at 1 and 2:30 pm. Call 4< 
1900 for more information.
Student Affairs presents its Fiscal Mai 
agement Workshop Wednesday, Novemb 
28, from 4 to 5:30 pm in Skibo 112. T 
workshop is primarily for chief officers'; 
student organizations.
President Mehrabian will have an opt 
office hour for students from 3 to 4 pm 
Friday, November 30. Please call RobynC 
at x6382 to make an appointment.
Because of the large size of University Calendar this 
\yeek, Vox Populi has been moved to page L15.
An Evening with Fleetwood Mac. To
night at 7:30 in the Civic Arena. Tickets are 
$18.75. Call 333-SEAT to charge by phone.
Bruce Hornsby & the Range. Wednesday 
at 7:30 pm in the Syria Mosque. Call 682- 
2200 to charge by phone.
New Kids on the Block. If your pre-pubescent hormones are all a-thunder, watch 
the Kids lip synch their greatest hits Friday 
at 7:30 pm in the Civic Arena. Tickets are 
$27. Call 333-SEAT to charge by phone.
Prayer at the Close of the Day will be 
sung Sunday at 9:30 pm in Heinz Chapel, 
Oakland, by the Pittsburgh Compline Choir. 
Call 682-6886 for more information.
The Pittsburgh Symphony will perform 
The Music of Beethoven and Debussy this 
Friday and Sunday. On Thursday, November 
29, and Friday, November 30, the symphony 
will perform The Music of Martinu, SaintSans, and Falla. Friday performances will 
be held at 8:30 pm and Thursday perfor
mances will be at 8 pm, all in Heinz Hall. Call 
392-4891 to charge by phone.
Billy Joel: The Storm Front Tour.
Wednesday, December 12, at the Civic Arena. 
Tickets are sold out, so look for them on the 
cmu.market bboard.
II
