Inside
Ins indebuttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttGGo
rkua ua \kC bma\ uaaeC 
nc rkC rmB\mh cnB \kC 
Gll.SlpDCmBt myC m 
dbCmamh\ ae::CBH
Features
Pn bnhTM PgubnH  aCC 
dmTC LI
Sports
rBmcg \Cm: TnCa \n 
\neBhCD  aCC dmTC l)P
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo EditorJ

THE TARTAN
Inbe:C 88M IaaeC opCmBhCTuC MCbbnh UhuyCBau\Da P\edCh\ NCwadmdCB PuhcC Gl06
iu\\abeBTk inbucC Bmud bncmb \myCBh
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor
Jim Snydime r/TT/a tyy /y P/ehmo EVmyAm ano engwmw hl SgddohAepi 
S/Tgm gy ny nvvnemyd mss/ed d/ enu w/ay /y Aywmenpm wegyugypc
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffwriter
& ERIC SALZMAN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
A normal evening at the Pan
ther Hollow Inn (PHI) turned into 
chaos last Thursday night, April 
22, when Pittsburgh Police raided 
the popular pub at approximately 
1:30 am.
According to David Weiner, a 
freshman French major, police 
did not enter the back door of PHI 
until someone attempted to leave. 
Four police cars arrived outside 
of PHI along with a police van. 
The police began to surround the 
entire building and entered 
through the front door.
When the first person opened 
the back door, a police officer ap
peared in the doorway with a 
raised nightstick. Once the pa
tron opened the door in an at
tempt to get out, police swarmed 
in, joining those who had already
entered through the front.
Everyone inside PHI, most of 
whom were CMU students, re
acted with what Weiner described 
as total panic.
After police entered the build
ing they instructed all persons 
with identification to leave. As 
they exited, police checked their 
IDs at the front door and in some 
cases, quizzed the bearer about 
information that appeared on the 
card in an attempt to catch any 
invalid identifications.
Persons without proof of legal 
drinkingage were told to sit down 
and wait, said Weiner. Police 
then took down their names, ad
dresses, telephone numbers, 
birthdates, and social security 
numbers.
Police went from table to table 
checking IDs and after all the 
information was given to the po
lice, people were escorted out. 
Approximately 38 underage 
drinkers were retained inside
PHI. During the proceedings, 
Weiner said you couldve cut the 
tension with a knife.
It is still unclear as to why the 
police were in PHI Thursday. 
Melissa Bower, a freshman cre
ative writing major, said that it 
was due to the fights that were 
going on outside and inside PHI. 
Bower said that they raided the 
place, and that she and the oth
ers who remained inside sat for 
about 30-^45 minutes.
CMU student Tanner Bruce 
says that he helped break up a 
fight involving both CMU and 
Pitt students. All but one of those 
involved in the fight were re
moved from the bar. When the 
final person involved went out
side to check on the situation, 
fighting continued in the parking 
lot of the Exxon station on Forbes 
Avenue near the bar.
According to Bruce, one of the 
Pitt students involved in the fight 
pulled out a gun. Bruce says that
he tackled the gunbearer into 
some bushes and that when they 
sat up, the gun was cocked and 
pointed at his chest. Bruce says 
that the gun was not pointed at 
him as a threat and that the 
bearer readily put it away.
Most of the persons involved in 
the fight were gone by this point, 
so those left went back inside the 
bar.
A waitress asked bouncer Mike 
Monico, a sophomore H&SS stu
dent, to escort the students in
volved in the fight outside of the 
bar.
Bruce says that one of the Pitt 
students kicked out told Monico 
that there were underage drink
ers in PHI. He says the Pitt studentmay have been angry enough 
to call the police and report the 
underaged drinking, thus insti
gating the raid.
Sergeant Richard Sima of Cam
pus Police says that PHI is out of 
STmnom omm .Etb vnpm HVent blaze clears Porter
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Fire erupted in a ventilator outside an 
industrial design shop Thursday, filling 
Baker and Porter Halls with smoke and 
causing the evacuation of the buildings.
The fire started in a dust collection 
system that serves Porter Hall A27. It 
was reported to Campus Police at 11:15 
am by the students in the room after 
efforts to put out the flames with hand
held extinguishers were unsuccessful.
Three Pittsburgh fire companies re
sponded to the scene, and the fire was 
under control within 20 minutes.
Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia said that the building was 
evacuated as a precautionary measure.
There was a lot of smoke throughout 
the area, and that' caused the concern 
[for the safety of the occupants, he said. 
The smoke [was] being drawn back into 
the building by the vents.
The evacuation caused the disruption 
and cancellation of many classes, as 
students milled around on Frew Street 
and the Mall awaiting further instruc
tions and watching the commotion. 
When they returned, some complained 
of the odor of smoke that lingered in 
parts of the building.
The smell will be throughout the
building for a while, said LaPaglia.
The cause of the fire is unknown at 
this time, said Bob Anderegg of Envi
ronmental Health and Safety.
Theres still a lot of speculation as to 
the cause of the fire, said Anderegg. 
But there are a number of theories.
One theory that he said was quickly 
disproven was that the belt drive for the 
motor on the dust collection unit had 
malfunctioned and overheated, igniting 
something inside the unit. Anderegg 
said that further investigation revealed 
that the belts and motor were intact.
Vandalism has also been ruled out. 
We believe this was an accidental situ
ation, he said.
Smoke damage to the building was 
not as bad as it might have been because 
of the nature of the fire. The spray 
booth area [in the room] was contami
nated with smoke, said Anderegg, but 
the ventilation unit for the spray booth, 
which includes a roof vent, exhausted 
much of the smoke.
The University called a disaster resto
ration company on Thursday afternoon 
to begin cleaning the room, in order to 
keep the room available as deadlines for 
final projects approach. The room was 
reopened, but further work will need to 
be done after the end of the semester, 
said Anderegg.
The unit is used to draw dust out of 
the air in the room. It takes out all the 
sawdust and deposits it in barrels for 
removal, he said.
The fire was centered in that unit, 
though, not in the barrels. The people 
from that design shop just emptied that 
unit two or three days before, so [the 
barrels] were not all that full, said 
Anderegg. The fire was not in the bar
rels, it was in the unit itself.
He said that people in the room said 
that the unit had been acting strangely 
before the fire. The unit consists of a 
motor to draw air out of the room, filter 
bags to catch the dust, and barrels that 
the dust is deposited in. There are also 
shakers that are activated when the 
unit is shut off, designed to shake out 
any sawdust remaining in the system.
On Thursday, though, the shakers 
started to move before the motor was 
turned off, said Anderegg. It is unclear 
at this time whether this incident and 
the fire are related.
Engineers are examining the unit to 
see if any electrical or mechanical prob
lems caused the fire. We want to look 
at it to try to determine how recur
rences can be avoided, he said.
The value of the damaged dust collec
tion unit and the cost of the restoration 
work was unavailable at presstime.
Vineet Agrawal/Tartan Photographer
8m seen in Pittsburgh!
QNtf myC/lmw Tnod ammuFo pemnd amndimeb hAd gd a/yFd Tnodc Jim &ndg/ynT Nmndime 
kmeVgm ongw dind T/Awl ougmo nyw diAywmeoi/ameo nem mUvmdmw d/ emdAey d/ dim 
nemn /y JAmownl nyw Tgypme die/Api dim myw /s dim ammuc
Grads apathetic about vote
People tend to vote when an issue concerns them.
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan Staffwriter
There was reportedly some confusion during 
the Student Government elections held over 
Carnival weekend, as graduate students at
tempted to and were not permitted to vote on the 
the plus/minus grading referendum.
Simply put, said Tim Mallo, president of the 
Graduate Student Organization (GSO), The 
resolution was only for undergraduates. The 
GSO had already passed a resolution concerning 
plus/minus grading. In the graduate schools, it 
is done by department since each department 
has a different grading system.
A few years ago the University decided to take 
a stance on the idea of plus/minus grading. The 
associate provost asked students for their opin
ion on the topic. Student Senate was to handle 
the concept with undergraduates and GSO would 
take it up with the graduate students. It was 
never within Senates jurisdiction to represent 
graduate students on this issue, said Lara 
Wolfson, a student senator and former GSO 
president.
Information was collected from the depart
ments and it was found that some departments 
had plus/minus grading, others didnt and others 
didnt have letter grades at all. This information 
was sent to GSO representatives who polled 
their departments. They all said either yes we 
like it, others didnt care, said Wolfson, There 
were no nosthat I can recall. The recommenda
tion sent to the Provosts office was in favor of the 
plus/minus grading system.
When Wolfson approached Senate with the 
idea, it was discovered that no effort had been 
made to find out from undergraduates if they 
favored them or not. I proposed the referen
dum. said Wolfson. This referendum would only 
apply to undergraduates. It was defeated in a 
landslide vote of 615 to 121 against plus/minus 
grading.
Something that haunts every election is the 
low turnout of graduate students who vote. I 
would say around 40 [graduate students voted] 
said Joe Demasi, Student Senate PR chair. There 
has been a variety of reasons that people specu
late to the low turnout. People tend to vote when 
an issue concerns them, said Wolfson.
James Landay, a CS senator, gives three reaSTmnom omm Y$JIb vnpm H
CFA plans cause some concern...
Trees to be lost to terrace
By MONEET SINGH
Special to The Tartan
The University is currently con
sidering proposals for the reno
vation of the terrace area in front 
of the College of Fine Arts, and 
one aspect has caused concern 
among some students.
The schemes developed by 
CMUs Architecture Design Prac
tice Center (ADPC) in conjunc
tion with GWSM, a local land
scape architecture firm, call for 
some repaving and the removal 
ofcertaintreesontheCFA lawn. 
Some people are upset that the 
latter change will spoil the char
acter of the lawn in front of the 
building.
The ADPC is coordinated by 
Bruce Lindsey and Paul 
Rosenblatt, both professors in the 
Architecture Department. The 
ADPC, which has students work
ing under Lindsey and Rosen
blatt, developed a set of schemes 
for the redevelopment of this ter
race during the course of the last 
semester. GWSM Landscape Ar
chitects are the actual architects 
of record, with the ADPC coordi
nators acting as designers.
Lindsey said that the trees were 
not in the original plans for the 
campus and that the trees are 
diseased.
According to Lindsey, the trees 
were added in the early 1970s by 
grounds and maintenance per
sonnel to supplement the gradu
ation ceremonies. Rosenblatt de
clined to comment.
We havent come to a final 
decision, said Paul Tellers, Uni
versity architect, for years weve 
been thinking about taking them 
down because they are seriously 
deteriorating. Tellers referred to 
the smaller trees directly in front 
of the newly carved niches, and 
not the larger trees at the cor
ners.
Tellers says that since the trees 
were not part of architect Henry 
Hombostels original design for
the campus, there are no plans to 
replace them.
In the 1920s, the CFA lawn 
was a level area of grass extend
ing out from a brick patio in front 
of the building down to a road 
that ran perpendicular to the 
Fence and then parallel down to 
Margaret Morrision Street.
The new schemes were posted 
in the College of Fine Arts to 
solicit student response. Fourthyear architecture student Jason 
Roth said that a surprisingly high 
number of comments were made 
by students about the removal of 
the trees. The fact that the trees 
were not in the original plans 
doesnt mean that they are not a 
positive feature, said Roth.
Patrick McKieman, another 
fourth-year architecture major, 
is concerned that these plans will 
reduce the number of people out 
in the space because of the lack of 
shade.
Other student comments writSTmnom omm J.IIkb vnpm ,

---------------------------------------------------

oIns Iideib u tidbsGos rskkab \ Cm cBdok hll.
THIS JUST IN
Nixon dies at 81
PARK RIDGE, N.J., 
April 23  Richard M. 
Nixon, 37th President 
of the United States, 
died after suffering a 
stroke at his home 
here. He was 81.
He gave of himself 
with intelligence and 
devotion to duty, and 
his country owes him a 
debt of gratitude for 
that service, said 
President Bill Clinton.
Nixon began his po
litical career in 1946 
as a member of the
photo courtesy the Pittsburgh
He joined a New York 
law firm in 1963 and 
stayed in the back
ground, quietly raising 
money and campaigningforGOP candidates. 
He set his sights on the 
White House again and 
handily beat Hubert 
Humphrey in 1968.
Nixons first term 
was marked by his ef
forts to withdraw U.S. 
troops from Vietnam 
and demonstrations by 
Post-Gazette groupsthatthoughthis 
administration wasnt
California delegation to the House of movingfastenoughtoaccomplishthat.
Representatives. He would rise to the 
nations most powerful office in 1968 
and became the first President to re
sign in 1974.
Born to a Quaker father and Meth
odist mother in January 1913 in Yorba 
Linda, California, Nixon had a repu
tation as a bookish young man. He 
graduated from Whitter College be
fore enrolling in the Duke University 
Law School.
Nixon served in the Navy during 
World War II and returned home to 
run for Congress. He would serve on 
the House Un-American Activities 
Committee and gain a reputation as a 
zealous pursurer of alleged Commu
nists working in important positions. 
His most famous case involved the 
campaign against former State De
partment official Alger Hiss, whom he 
accused of passing secrets to the So
viet Union.
Buoyed by his rising popularity, he 
ran for the U.S. Senate against Helen 
Gahagan Douglas. He branded her 
the Pink Lady for being what he 
called soft on Communism, and the 
attacks helped him win the seat by
700,000 votes. The Senate contest 
brought him national fame  some 
would say notoriety. His hard work for 
Dwight Eisenhowers presidential 
campaign combined with his name 
recognition earned him the 1952 VicePresidential nomination.
Nixon served two terms as VicePresident before becoming the Repub
lican candidate for president in 1960. 
He would lose narrowly to John F. 
Kennedy, a defeat that was attributed 
to Nixons performance in three tele
vised debates. Nixon then lost the 1962 
California gubernatorial election to 
Edmund G. Brown, a loss that some 
thought was the end of his career.
Nixon deplored the protests, calling 
them a sign ofpermissiveness. Nixon 
also tackled the countrys growing eco
nomic problems, resulting from in
creased social defense spending under 
Lyndon Johnson.
He made trips to China and the 
Soviet Union in 1972, and his second 
term was marked by an increased 
emphasis on foriegn policy and better 
relations with the Communist world. 
He was able to cool off relations with 
the USSR and reopen communications 
with China. Nixon also received a 
heros welcome in Egypt as part of a 
tour of the Middle East in 1974.
Unfortunately, his second term was 
marred by a series of scandals that 
would rock the nations faith in gov
ernment. First his Vice-President, 
Spiro Agnew, resigned in disgrace.
Then The Washington Post uncov
ered links between a 1972 break-in at 
Democratic headquarters in the 
Watergate Apartments in Washing
ton and the White House. Nixon was 
implicated in the resulting cover-up. 
The aides that had served him so well 
were forced from office one by one and 
finally, as calls for his impeachment 
grew stronger, Nixon resigned from 
office on August 9,1974.
The scandal would color his public 
image forever. Over time, though, he 
established a reputation as a confi
dant of world leaders and would gain 
new respect as a diplomat and elder 
statesman.
Nixons funeral will be held Wednes
day at 4 pm at the Nixon Library in 
Yorba Linda. He will be interred next 
to his late wife, Thelma Pat Nixon, 
who died last June. Eulogies will be 
delivered by Clinton, Senator Bob Dole 
(R.-Kan.), and California Governor 
Pete Wilson.
1 1 III
Alcoa to build new HQ in city
PITTSBURGH, April 22 (DJ)  Alu
minum Company of America (Alcoa) has 
agreed to purchase a site on Pittsburghs 
North Shore to construct a new corpo
rate headquarters building.
The two-acre site is being acquired 
from the Urban Redevelopment Author
ity. The date for construction to begin 
will be announced at a later time, the 
company said in a press release. Finan
cial terms of the sale werent disclosed.
The building, which will take two years 
to build, is expected to be five stories and 
contain more than 250,000 square feet 
of office space over a two-level garage 
with 400 parking spaces, Alcoa said.
Alcoas current home is the companys 
landmark aluminum-sheathed sky
scraper in Pittsburghs Golden Triangle. 
The building, built in 1954, has become 
inadequate for the companys needs. City 
officials were worried that the company 
would move outside of Pittsburgh, but 
Alcoa officials say that the citys central 
location and accessibility made it ideal 
for the company. Alcoa says that it will 
move its operations to the upper floors of 
the Alcoa building and attempt to find 
other firms to lease the lower floors.
New policy on Haiti formulated
WASHINGTON, April 22 (DJ)  
President Bill Clinton is acknowledging 
the failure of his policy toward Haiti and 
will seek United Nations support for a 
broad trade embargo against the Carib
bean nation, an official says.
After six members of Congress were 
arrested yesterday for illegally protest
ing Clintons policy on the White House 
sidewalk, a White House official dis
closed that the President will ask the 
U.N. to back an embargo on all but food 
and humanitarian aid going to Haiti. 
The move could come as early as next 
week, said the official, who spoke on 
condition of anonymity.
The President has understood that 
the policy has not been successful and it 
was time to change the strategy, the 
White House official said. U.S. policy is 
aimed at returning exiled President 
Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power and 
restoring the democratic system that 
elected him.
A spokesman and adviser to Aristide, 
former Representative Mike Barnes, to
day called the change a step toward 
what weve been advocating, but said 
stronger measures are needed, includ
ing a full embargo by the U.S., reversal 
of the repatriation strategy and a cle'ar 
message to the Haitian army.
Clinton has come under increasing 
pressure from Congress to take tougher 
steps against Haitis military regime, 
with legislation introduced in both the 
House and Senate calling for a full em
bargo and other steps.
Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said 
today the President decided that tight
ening sanctions is the best next step 
because there has been an increase in 
violence, and the political process has 
stalemated.
Myers said that the sanctions pain 
Haitis poorest residents, but added: The 
most vulnerable people are already suf
fering. This is an effort to put pressure 
on the people on the top, people who are 
making the decisions.
Clinton chooses 
top economists
WASHINGTON, April 22 (DJ)  
Chairman of the National Economic 
Council Robert Rubin said that 
PresidentBill Clinton will announce two 
appointments to the Federal Reserve 
Board later today.
Rubin made the statement during a 
speech to a world economic forum spon
sored by the International Herald Tri
bune. He said he might have to break off 
his speech early in order to attend an 
Oval Office ceremony with Clinton to 
announce the appointments.
University of California at Berkeley 
economist Janet Yellen and Council of 
Economic Advisors and former Princeton 
University economist Alan Blinder are 
widely expected to be the picks.
First lady holds Q&A session
WASHINGTON, April 22 (DJ)  A 
guarantee of health care coverage for all 
Americans without new taxes is the bot
tom line in health care reform, said 
First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton.
This really is the bottom line, Clinton 
said during a press conference concern
ing the Whitewater scandal and her 
commodities trading.
Clinton, who oversaw the development 
of the Presidents health reform pro
posal, also said she and her husband 
believe that asking employers and em
ployees to pay for health care coverage 
is the way to go towards achieving 
universal health care coverage.
The Clinton plan contains a mandate 
that would force employers to pay 80 
percent of health care coverage for em
ployees.
But Clinton indicated that she and 
her husband will consider alternative 
methods to achieve universal coverage. 
If Congress can do it another way, were 
certainly going to look at that, she said.
Critics of the Clinton plan have said ' 
that the so-called employer mandate\ 
could could be too burdensome for small ? 
businesses.
Another priority in health care reform I 
is the proposed health care alliances, I 
which would feature community rating I 
to help set the cost of health insurance 
premiums, the First Lady said. She and j 
her husband want to make sure com-\ 
munity rating is in place.
Congress works on fighting crime
WASHINGTON, April 22 (D J)  Re-| 
spending to rising public fears about; 
crime, the House approved broad legis
lation expanding the scope of the death 
penalty and authorizing billions of dol- i 
lars for more crime prevention.
The crime bill, which passed by a 285- 
141 vote, now goes to a conference com
mittee to negotiate differences with the 
Senate-passed version. House leaders! 
say theyll accept the Senates proposal 
to create a $22 billion trust fund dedi-. 
cated to anticrime programs, which 
would fully finance President Bill 
Clintons campaign pledge to putlOO,000 
additional police on American streets. 
Sponsors hope to complete action and 
send the bill to Clinton for his signature1 
sometime next month.
At a time of heightened national at
tention to violent crime, the debate over 
the measure became an election year 
platform for tough talk. It would make 
more than 60 additional federal crimes, I 
from homicide to fatal carjacking, sub
ject to the death penalty.
In the process, Republicans succeeded 
in stripping provisions that would have ; 
expanded rights of appeal for deathrow 
inmates in some cases, and in permit
ting drug offenses to be used as the: 
third strike assuring a life sentence for 
people convictedofrepeatedfederal drug : 
or violent crimes. Another successful 
GOP amendment ordered the removal 
of weight-lifting equipment from federal 
prisons on grounds that the equipment 
makes some inmates more dangerous.
But by handing some crucial victories 
to liberals, Democratic leaders managed 
to preserve their partys coalition and 
claim victory on the politically volatile ! 
subject. Democratshaverecapturedthis; 
issue, said Representative Charles { 
Schumer (D.-N.Y.), a principal sponsor, 
who described the bill as both tough on ; 
punishment andsmartonprevention. i
News Briefs Courtesy 
Bow Joses
Layout By 
Eric J. Salzman
THANK YOU PATRICK MOONEY
FOR YOUR COURAGEOUS WITNESS ON BEHALF OF THE CHURCH
Catholic
Action
League
"Blest are you when they insult you and persecute you and utter every kind of slander against 
you because of me. Be glad and rejoice, for your reward is great in heaven; they persecuted 
the prophets before you in the very same way." 
Matthew 5: 11-12
VThis is a paid advertisement.

---------------------------------------------------

Ins Iideib u tidbsGos rskkab u Cm cBdok hll.S
GBmda bmBTCbD mbaCh\ cBn: CbCc\unh yn\uhT
Y$JIb se/G vnpm 8
sons for the low turnout. One is that there were no issues 
concerning graduate students, another was the two candidates 
up for Senate President were not graduates and did not cam
paign to graduates. A third reason that Landay states, which 
Wolfson agrees with, was the fact that the elections were held at 
Carnival. No graduate students go to Carnival. said Landay.
Kami White, an H&SS senator, felt that the turnout was 
normal: Historically, graduates dont usually vote. She went 
on to add that in the February elections, more voted because the 
election concerned GSO.
City police raid Panther Hollow Inn
Underage students may face penalties after last Thursdays sting
Correction...
In the photo of the PiKA A buggy on page L2 of last weeks 
issue, the caption was incorrect. PIKA A did not crash.
In a page L7 photo caption. Spirits buggy was misidentified as 
PiKAs. '
In the article Wind doesnt ruin festivities, a factual error 
was made. The comer stage was the responsibility of the Carni
val committee.
The graphics at the top of page 1 were the work of Gabrien 
Symons.
The Tartan regrets the errors.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact If you know of such 
an error, contact Tartan Editor-in-chief Andrew Sprouleat268- 
2111, or write kim in care of The Tartan, Box 17, CarnegieMellon 
University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
.Etb se/G vnpm 8
our jurisdiction, but that Pitts: 
burgh Police may have been 
tipped off. According to Campus 
Police, the city does not usually 
bother with underage drinking 
unless they receive a complaint 
or when state troops ask for city 
help. In this case, someone may 
have been inside PHI and made 
the call to Pittsburgh Police.
Pittsburgh Police refused to 
comment on the incident. A 
spokesperson for Zone Six said 
that no report was available since 
no legal action has taken place. 
The public relations officer for 
Pittsburgh Police was not avail
able for comment.
No charges were pressed 
against anyone at PHI, but fines 
could be on the way. All those 
who didnt have ID could face a 
$300 fine.
PHI may be in for even more 
trouble. The bar could face a pen
alty of $2,000 for every underage 
drinker that was in the bar, and 
$1,000 for every person in the bar 
who was over 21, but did not have
ID on them.
Bower also said that police 
asked PHI to take their Occu
pancy Permit and their State Li
quor License off the wall. Bower 
is unclear as to whether police 
confiscated the documents or 
were just inspecting them.
Elizabeth Perez, a freshman 
design major who was inside the 
bar, said that the police were 
really cool about it.
One female police officer even 
made jokes with the crowd say
ing she remembered being caught 
as an underage drinker, said 
Perez.
Perez said that the police then 
announced that they didnt feel 
like writing citations for each of 
these people. Therefore, general 
information was taken from each 
person. Perez said her theory is 
that they really just wanted to 
talk to the people at the bar. 
PHI management refused com
ment on the incident or what their 
plans for the future are. But ac
cording to one bartender who was 
working Thursday night, all the
bar can do is wait to see what the 
police decide to do.
When Perez and her friend en
tered PHI, they had come in at 
the tail end of a fight that had 
broken out inside. People were 
being thrown out of the bar and 
Perez and her friend were able to 
slip in without anyone checking 
for ID. After the parties involved 
in the fight were outside of the 
bar, the doors were locked.
One of the biggest controver
sies of the night rose out of the 
handcuffing of Monico. Monico 
said his job is to keep the peace 
down there.
The controversy arose because 
some thought that Monico locked 
the door initially to prevent the 
police from entering PHI. How
ever, Monico explained that it 
was locked because we were 
closed at 1:30 [last call]. At last 
call the door gets locked.
Police did not understand why 
they were not allowed in immedi
ately and the confusion lead them 
to restrain Monico and place him 
in the police van for about 45 
minutes.
Once the head bartender ex
plained to police why the door 
had been locked, Monico was re
leased. No charges were brought 
against him.
By 2:15 am, the lights were out 
at PHI and no one remained in
side. Pittsburgh Police have the 
option of doing nothing about the 
incident, turning the case over to 
the Pennsylvania Liquor Control 
Board, or issuing warnings or ci
tations to the underage persons 
caught.
Bower said that police told them 
that they would receive citations 
in the mail.
In the meantime, PHI may be 
closely monitored.
Want to lose weight? 
Want to be more active?
The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center is offering a 
new research program to help men and women increase 
exercise, lower dietary fat intake, and lose weight. If you are age 
25 to 55 and 20 to 70 pounds overweight, you may be eligible 
to participate in this free study.
For more information, please call the Behavioral Medicine 
program at 624-4879.
University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center
DietAid 3000
AS SEEN ON T. V. *SPRAY AWAY THE POUNDS
DietAid 3000 is the only breath spray which acts as an appetite 
suppressant, relieving hunger pangs and the mental desire to eat. 
This spray has a pleasant peppermint flavor.
 100% NATURAL
 Use With Current Diet  No Calories Per Serving
 Vitamin C  Easy To Use
 Convenient  Discreet
**ORDER TODAY**
Money Back Guarantee! Please allow 2-4 weeks for delivery 
ONLY $19.95 FOR A 3 MONTH SUPPLY 
(includes shipping & handling). Send cash, check or money order to; 
HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS 
3330 HILCROFT, STE. D-411 
HOUSTON, TX 77057
Spend Your $ IN Europe, Not Getting There
Yne aknebd bC adChduhT DneB ymcm\unh dnbbmBa nh \kC Tnnd a\ecc H 
AIRIrC kma kCbdCd \kneamhda nc a\edCh\a "CsdCBuChcC" \kC 
wnhdCBa nc EeBndC nyCB \kC bma\ G0 DCmBat
AIRIrC ua \kC aneBcC cnB a\edCh\ \BmyCbCBat
can 800-326-2009
cnB DneB pD dBnTBm: dCacBud\unh
RCcn::ChdCd bD LC\a GnM Cnhae:CB RCdnB\aM rkC WmakuhT\nh ina\M RnbbuhT P\nhCttt
Personalized Graduation 
Announcements by Balfour
Your name, degree and CMU Personalized
major printed on each Announcements
announcement. whito only 1750Pkg. of 25 /Li
<fi' o
*****
is
5VH
*****
 MttS
ByA NGELAMOA YyRIIA
SKIBO HALL
Orders Taken on: rabyi:H cBdok CmH endaPGn 
pdoyi:H cBdok Cl
Time: 8:00 am to 5:00 pm
or call 1 -800-899-8205 to order by phone.
i*'
LOOKING FOR AN APARTMENT?
E.S. MANAGEMENT CURRENTLY HAS APARTMENTS AVAILABLE IN 
BOTH THE NORTH OAKLAND AND SHADYSIDE AREAS. IF YOU ARE 
LOOKING FOR QUALITY HOUSING IN A WELL-MAINTAINED BUILDING, 
PLEASE GIVE US A CALL.
NEED STORAGE SPACE?
795-5845
NORTH OAKLAND
218-222 NORTH CRAIG STREET 
1-BEDROOM APARTMENTS (SUITABLE 
FOR TWO PEOPLE). RENOVATED, NEW 
WINDOWS, NEW KITCHENS, NEW 
BATHROOMS, CENTRAL AIR, NEW 
APPLIANCES, BUZZ-IN ENTRYWAY, 
LAUNDRY IN BUILDING, OFF-STREET 
PARKING AVAILABLE. SOME 
AVAILABLE FOR MAY AND SOME FOR 
THE FALL.
$525-550 PER MONTH + UTILITIES.
4-BEDROOM APARTMENTS. LARGE 
RENOVATED 4 BEDROOM UNITS, ALL 
THE-SAME AMENITIES AS ABOVE. 
$1,100 PER MONTH + UTILITIES.
SHADYSIDE AREA
BELLEFONTE AND ELMER STREET
BEAUTIFULLY RENOVATED 2-BEDROOM 
APARTMENTS. JUST FINISHED REHAB., ALL 
NEW KITCHENS, INCLUDING DISHWASHERS 
AND G/D, NEW WINDOWS, STEEL DOORS, 
CENTRAL AIR, JUST ONE BLOCK FROM 
WALNUT, LAUNDRY IN BUILDING.
$795 + UTILITIES.
5752 ELLSWORTH AVENUE
HUGE (1500 SQ. FT.) 3-BEDROOM, 2 BATH, 
NEWLY RENOVATED, CENTRALAIR, NEW 
KITCHEN, BUZZ-IN ENTRYWAY, LAUNDRY IN 
BUILDING, FORMAL DINING ROOM.
$1,100 + UTILITIES.
LARGE 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS WITH THE 
SAME AMENITIES AS ABOVE. $795 + UTILITIES.
MANY OTHER APARTMENTS AVAILABLE. CALL WITH YOUR NEEDS. 795-5845.
G
ITmde/yg omAegdl s/e 
mni od/enpm e//G
0- i/Aeo s/e ovegyuTme 
nyw omAegdl olodmGo
CGSS 683-5650
OAKLAND
750 S. MILLVALE AVE.
Q/GvTmdm Tgym /s f3rnAT 
deAuo nVngTnhTm

J"L
?_L
kd/enpm ovnm nVngTnhTm agdi2 
nge geATndg/yb imndb T/a iAGgwgdl
Inss 441-5983
SHADYSIDE
5873 CENTRE AVE.
zz:
One Month Free Rent!
Pay 3 months in advance, get 4th month free. Valid with coupon only. Not valid with any other offer.

---------------------------------------------------

You may even get paid for
reading it  After all, this book from
MasterCard offers lots of useful tips on finding a real 
job, and its written for students by students. To order 
your copy for $9.95, call 1-800-JOB-8894. MasterCard 
Its more than a credit card. Its smart money;
RACEFORTHECURE
Did yon know that 1 in 8 women will contract breast cancer in their lifetime?
That more money is spent on prostate cancer research than on breast cancer research?
Do your part to find a cure lor breast cancer!
Run in the Race for the Cure!
Food, beverages, a t-shlrt, and more will be given to each entrant, as well as a chance to win draw prizes. Prizes wll be awarded to the fastest runners.
Entry forms are available at the Sklbo
Sunday - Mother's Day - May 8,1994 8:30 am Schenley Park - Pittsburgh
rkua md adnhanBCd bD P\edCh\ PChm\C \kBneTk \kC P\edCh\ Ac\uyu\uCa FCCt

---------------------------------------------------

Ins Iideib u tidbsGos rskkab u Cm cBdok hll.m
rBCCa :mD bC bna\ \n CFA \CBBmcC
J.IIkb se/G vnpm 8
ten on sheets next to plans ranged 
from Dont tear down the trees! 
to The best part of the terrace is 
being able to relax under shade 
trees in summer.
Not all responses were nega
tive however, including a com
ment that one renovation scheme 
might encourage a path across 
the lawn.
Tellers said that there wasnt 
any consensus from students re
garding the replacement of the 
trees.
Roth disagreed, saying that the 
committee called for student in
put, but evidently thats had no 
value.
Roth said that at an open meet
ing, the committee glossed over 
the issue of the trees. 
Samantha Ciotti, president of
CMUs chapter of the American 
Institute of Architecture Stu
dents, also disagreed with Tell
ers assertion about the lack of a 
student consensus, saying ev
eryone Ive talked to thinks that 
the trees add more to the space 
and should be there.
Why not just leave that space 
as grass, or leave the trees and 
make it more of a patio and less of 
a slab? asked Ciotti.
McKieman recalls a similar ar
gument of disease made about 
the trees that used to line the 
sidewalk between the CFA park
ing lot and the tennis courts. 
They havent provided us with 
proof that these trees are dis
eased, said McKiernan, and 
even so, why not plant them over? 
Roth said that if the trees were 
replaced with other shade trees
of the locust variety, they would 
take only a few years to grow to 
full height.
Fred Bellidin, a fourth-year ar
chitecture major, is much more 
adamant, arguing that the cur
rent plans show the typical in
sensitivity on the part of the ar
chitects, tearing down trees that 
have been there longer than they 
have, for an exercise in laying 
brick.
The design review committee 
will be meeting later this week to 
make a final decision. Professor 
David Lewis, a member of the 
review committee, declined to 
comment.
Tellers points out that none of 
the current schemes being dis
cussed contain proposals to re
place the trees. I think they 
should be removed, said Lindsey.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Robotics Club, SAE gear up for contest
The Robotics Club and the CMU chapter of the 
Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) will be 
participating in the annual SAE Robotics Decath
lon this year.
Partcipants include universities around the 
United States and Canada. The event is held to 
promote research and development of walking 
machines, stimulate interest in new design con
cepts, and create a more competitive atmosphere 
between universities outside of sports, said Robot
ics Club member William Ouyang, a junior me
chanical engineering major.
The Decathlon was first held in 1992, and CMU 
has participated since the inception. In1993, CMUs 
entry placed second overall and won first place in 
the design category.
The first robot entered by CMU was a six-legged 
walking robot named Moose. Moose had three 
degrees of motion, and was designed by thenjunior Matt Arnold. Last years entry, Electronics,
was designed by MechE Frank Alderenth and later 
modified by James Miller, a sophomore electrical 
and computer engineering major.
This year, SAE and the Robotics Club has de
signed an entirely new entry, as yet unnamed, that 
incorporates both pnuematics and electronics.
The CMU team is made up of three groups, a 
mechanism group, headed by Ouyang, an electron
ics group, headed by ECE junior Alexander Sharf, 
and a controls group, headed by ECE sophomore 
James Miller. The teams advisor is mechanical 
engineering professor John Wiss.
NRC finally named
The former Naval Reserve Center (NRC) on 
Forbes Avenue has been named The Student Cen
ter, University President Robert Mehrabian an
nounced Thursday. In other news, student organi
zations currently housed in Skibo began moving 
last week. Skibo facilities and meeting space will 
be available until May 15.
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYER
WARNER BROPM c 
A PiRING CREEK iR\cOrCrU IN AN AIEK REPJIGPGLI FILM G0EiEPCI BRaDAN FRAPER t 
MbMKEUY urUKMDK JQMMU 'OrI ONORP"GOREYIKL 
urRjBm IE0NStW0 ^BuPABE MGLRW tpPD Gt PUC BROWN p.tP JOX iErERP m:u iErER GI BER 
rtPILIPI MUMKE "WU EKPEuN P>D AtM ROBINPON :* 
d^TBTmTTj ""ALER REPUMIAN ttttttttttttttyjDI,.*!,*,....-} UM ~T~~!
Starts Friday, April 29
The Office of Student Affairs 
announces several new student positions
1994-95 
Paid Internships
The Office of Student Affairs has created several 
new intern positions for the coming year. Each 
intern will focus on a significant aspect of student 
life on the campus. Focus areas include such is
sues as personal development, leadership devel
opment, multi-cultural issues, community service, 
publications, academic support services, gender 
issues, parent and family programs, creating pub
lications and publicity, and engaging in other re
lated administrative and programmatic functions.
Interns will work approximately 15 hours per week 
and will complete a fall training program and on
going professional development activities. Both 
undergraduate and graduate students are encour
aged to apply.
Applications are available in the Office of the Dean 
of Student Affairs, Warner Hall 301. For more in
formation, contact Harriet Schwartz, Assistant to 
the Dean of Student Affairs, 268-2075. Priority will 
be given to applications received this semester.
Buying or selling? The best way to reach 
Carnegie Mellon is through an ad in
THETARTAN
For information, call 268-2111'
JOEPESCI
If you want 
a degree 
go to Harvard.
If you want 
an education 
go to 
Simon Wilder.
BRENDANFRASERMOIRAKELLY PATRICK
DEMPSEY JOSH
HAMILTON
When it's time to pack up 
and go home......
Leave it to the
We specialize in packing & shipping small loads.
Please call ahead to make special arrangements 833*9665
 UPS Shipping
 Insurance to $50,000
 Packing supplies - boxes, tape, foam
 Custom packing - computers, stereos, small furniture
Look for our van in the parking lot in 
Sront oS Skibo Hall 
on
Tues. May 3rd 10:00 am - 2:00 pm
Wed. May 4th 10:00 am - 2:00 pm

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
rkua\bCa mhd rknBha
Thistles and Thorns are 
givenby the Tartan editorial 
board to commend or condemn 
people, events, and organizations.
The first group of Thistles and 
Thoms go to the administration 
for the destruction of Skibo. They 
get a Thistle because it looks like 
the wretched building may actu
ally come down within a few 
months, but they also get a bucket 
of Thoms for taking so long to 
tear the building down. Its hard 
to believe that the building will 
come down this year after many 
years of broken promises. We also 
see a few Thoms growing for the 
future  we are pretty sure that 
the administrations claims of a 
new university center in two years 
will not pan out. We would like to 
give Thistles to Bonnie Gorman, 
Director of Student Activities, Ed 
Hydzik, and Kevin Lamb, Direc
tor of Planning Services, for try
ing to make the New Student 
Center usable. While not every 
student will be satisfied, these 
people made it possible for stu
dent organizations to use the 
former Naval Reserve Center.
The administration also gets a 
Thorn and a Thistle for the new 
lights outside of Warner Hall. 
They deserve the Thistle for put
ting in new lights, but also de
serve a Thom  the only reason 
the lights were installed was due 
to construction, not in order to 
make campus safer. The school 
also receives a Thom for not let
ting Shuttle and Escort service 
expand. Fully combining our ser
vices with the University of Pitts
burgh and Chatham would help 
all members of the campus com
munity by giving them greater 
access the surrounding areas. 
Shuttle and Escort gets another 
Thorn because the vehicles are 
frequently broken. However, the 
they do get a Thistle for buying 
two new buses and a van.
Carnival and the people who 
made it happen get Thistles for 
bringing in more entertainment 
this year. On the other hand, 
Sweepstakes gets a Thom for not 
giving the Phi Kap womens A 
team a reroll. PiKA gets a Thistle 
for winning both mens and 
womens buggy. We would like to 
give Student Senate a Thistle for 
allocating Carnival more money 
this year. However, they also get 
a Thom for inconsistent funding 
policies. It is ridiculous that allo
cations costing thousands of dol
lars get passed with relatively 
little debate while it takes hours 
to allocate a few hundred dollars. 
WRCT gets two Thistles: one for 
not blasting the Midway during 
Carnival, and one for the presi
dential debates they were able to 
hold on such short notice. A new 
group on campus, CMU Hemp, 
gets a Thistle for doing a good job 
of informing the campus commu
nity about hemp.
Housing gets Thistles for clos
ing Carol and Tudor, reducing 
the number of occupants in 
Doherty apartments, and leasingrooms in Cathedral Mansions. 
But they get a Thorn because 
there is not enough housing on 
campus. They also get a Thom 
for not having any housing for 
graduate students.
We wanted to send a carload of 
Thistles to the school for parking 
on campus, but since we couldnt 
find a place to park, we had to 
mail them Thoms instead. With 
the destruction of Skibo, there 
will even be fewer parking spaces
on campus and the University 
gets a Thorn for not preparing 
alternatives.
Student Government President 
Dave Wolperts committee on 
government reform gets a Thom 
for being nothing more than an 
Activities Fee committee. We 
thought about giving the Stu
dent Body a Thom for apathy, 
but didnt get around to it. Pro
gramming on campus gets a 
bunch of Thistles. Allen 
Ginsberg, brought in by the His
tory department, was a huge 
success. The folks who run the 
movies in DH2210, AB and SDC, 
get a full-color first-release mo
tion picture of a Thistle for the 
great movies we have had at great 
prices.
The University gets a Thom 
for not providing the Yard with 
space after Skibos destruction. 
Marriott gets a Thom for not 
providing eating facilities in 
Morewood. This made the other 
areas on campus much more 
crowded. The GSO Coffeehouse 
gets a Thistle for providing good 
food and entertainment at rea
sonable prices.
The University gets a Thistle 
for fixing the rotunda outside of 
Margaret Morrison. However, 
they get a big Thom for not ad
dressing the issue of the sexist 
inscription which appears on it. 
The walkways and broken bricks 
in between Wean and Porter re
ceive Thoms for being danger
ous. Physical Plant receives a 
Thom for not providing a perma
nent fix to this continual prob
lem. The University also receives 
Thoms for decreasing student 
services in general, but specifi
cally Computing Services gets 
one for not having enough com
puters on campus for student 
use and the library receives a 
Thom for trying to close before 
midnight. The Carnegie Shoppe 
gets a Thom for high prices. They 
also get a Thom for every dollar 
they make off of crew merchan
dise  none of which goes to the 
rowing club. These Thorns are 
shared by the Athletic Depart
ment, who refuses to fund crew 
as a varsity sport, even though 
the women recently won a gold 
in the Head of Ohio, and a silver 
in the Head of Occoquan, and the 
men won a silver in those same 
two events.
The Staff Council receives 
Thistles for working on getting 
domestic partners benefits. The 
people at the Skibo Info Desk get 
a Thistle for the basket of candy 
they have there, as does the front 
desk of Student Affairs andMary 
Jo Rudman in Student Activi
ties. The fraternities get a keg of 
Thistles for trying to implement 
BYOB. This should make par
ties safer by cutting off the free 
flow of alcohol.
Our last Thorn goes to the 
weather this past year. From 
record cold weather to ridiculous 
amounts ofrain, the weather has 
left much to be desired. Our final 
Thistles go to our graduating staff 
members without whom this 
years paper would not have been 
possible: Matt Adler, Kymberly 
M. Bartlo, Aimee Beal, Allan 
Bourdius, Kevin Chen, Tony 
deFigio, Jennifer Forbes, 
Germain DeSeve VIII, Daniel 
Frey, David Hunt, Keegan Folk, 
Micki Kochanskyj, Janice 
McClure, Brendan McFeely, 
Ryan J. McGinness, Rhonda 
Struminger, and Tina L. Urso.
Letters to the Editor
Buggy article angers reader
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
On Monday after 
Carnival I grabbed a 
Tartan to check the 
stories about this 
years Sweepstakes, 
only to be disgusted by the pathetic 
coverage of the womens races [Contro
versy mars womens buggy, 4/18]. While 
an entire page was devoted to a virtual 
race-by-race recap of the mens heats, 
only a small article on the second page, 
written by Eric Strauss, mentioned any
thing at all about the womens heats. 
No, the only thing that marred womens 
buggy was The Tartans complete igno
rance of it.
One measly sentence mentioned that 
Pi Kappa Alphas womens team won the 
first place trophy. No mention of the fact 
that they won it for the second year in a 
row, or even any of the names of the 
pushers. A few paltry sentences men
tioned the times of the next four placing 
teams, but most of the article gave only 
negative details about Phi Kap and 
Spirits crash. And you didnt even get 
that right  one picture shows PiKA 
crossing the finish line with a completely 
false caption reading, PiKA A pushing 
for a win before the crash that sidelined 
their hopes. Sorry, but we didn't crash 
and we did win. There was no mention of 
both Spirit and Phi Kaps achievements 
of having two womens teams in the top 
six, or how close all the womens times 
were on both Friday and Saturday, or 
who the Queens of the Hills were.
I know that the writer of the article 
didnt even see the womens races and 
that the article was written late Sunday 
night, so why was he chosen to write it? 
Carnival is the biggest event on campus. 
How can The Tartan call itself CMUs 
student newspaper if it cant do a decent 
job on the easiest story of the year? A 
Tartan staff member called me Sunday 
afternoon to identify one of our pushers 
in a photo  which I appreciate her for 
following up  but why didnt anyone 
ask any questions about the races them
selves, since they obviously didnt have 
a clue?
Well, since The Tartan cant do its job 
capably, let me take this time to con
gratulate all of the womens teams for 
their performance last weekend. I hope 
you all had fun, and we look forward to 
some more good competition in years to 
come!
Julie Paul
Senior, Architecture
PiKA womens push team captain
WRCT raceday coverage failed
times given, to yelling frantically at the 
top of Hill Two: Here they come! Here 
they come! (I recall having a similar 
reaction as a 10-year-old.) This was in 
addition to the usual feedback, back
ground conversations, and overwhelm
ing wind noise from the microphone on 
the lead truck.
In the closing comments, WRCT didnt 
even run down the standings. A phone 
call to the station seeking information 
on the mens preliminary standings 
yielded this response: Our results are 
unofficial, and we really cant give out 
any information until we receive it from 
the Sweepstakes committee. I was flab
bergasted! Are they worried about get
ting sued? Is the Sweepstakes commit
tee really controlling information to the 
point of non-disclosure of even unofficial 
results? Is the Sweepstakes committee 
aware of WRCTs position, and does it 
endorse it?
During the one weekend when WRCT 
'likely gamers its largest listening audi
ence, one would think that they would 
make an effort to stand out as a source of 
information and entertainment. Unfor
tunately that does not appear to be the
Mark D. Wilkins 
(E 86)
Catholic readers voice concerns
Editor:
The Catholic com
munity on campus is 
upset about the 
events regarding Pat 
Mooney and the
OS
Letter to 
the Editor
on
ltur ta io Editer
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
As an alumnus 
who was unable to 
attend the Sweep
stakes 94 prelimi
nary races on Fri
day, April 15, I tuned in to WRCT at 
work to hear what was going on. What I 
heard was disappointing. There were 
several announcers at different points 
on the course, all of whom knew surpris
ingly little. Their commentary ranged 
from and PiKA wins the heat with no
cmuOUT poster. We would like to men
tion several of our concerns. When the 
poster initially appeared, many of us felt 
personally attacked for our religious 
beliefs. Not only were we offended by the 
headline which read Stop the Church, 
but also by the fact that Cardinal 
OConnor was attacked for the same 
views that we as Catholics share.
This poster presented several serious 
issues. First, the event and poster were 
clearly political in nature; Donna Riley, 
the posters creator, characterized it as 
making a political statement. Accord
ing to Senate bylaws, A funded organi
zation ... may not use the funds provided 
by Student Senate for political, religious, 
or academic purposes. The poster indi
cated that the event was Senate funded; 
the policy was clearly violated. Second, 
the poster was misleading as to who 
sponsored the event, which also put it in 
violation of the poster policy.
We are also upset about the case in
volving Mooney. When the initial news 
came out, we were disturbed. Was 
Mooney being charged with harassment 
because he tried to explain the teach
ings of the Church? Although we did not 
have the information needed to make 
this judgment, we were still worried. We 
are concerned that Mooney may have 
been treated unfairly.
Possibly the press is responsible for 
this matter exploding so wildly. We do 
not condemn Mooney for discussing the 
case since we cannot find rules in our 
Student Handbook forbidding him to do 
so. The handbook does impose restric
tions on the university, but the intent is 
clearly to protect the privacy of the ac
cused. Nor do we condemn professor
Tim Satemows contact with The Tar
tan. We are concerned that Satemow 
feels he is being harassed, and we are 
upset that the case is causing such po
larization in the community. We desire ; 
the Catholic community to be tolerant, 
understanding, and compassionate.
Whose side are we on? We support 
Mooney in that he is courageous enough 
to discuss his convictions when many 
Catholics are afraid of ridicule. When 
The Tartan prints letters criticizing our 
faith, we are often afraid of discussing 
our beliefs for fear of the prejudice that 
some members of the university com
munity have toward Catholics.
We still havent made a decision as to 
who was right in the harassment case. 
We do not condone discrimination i 
attacks on a person for their beliefs, of. 
which Satemow believes he has been a 
victim. It is difficult to determine what 
actually happened; all we really know is 
that Mooney was acquitted of the ha
rassment charge.
Finally, we have mixed feelings con
cerning the right to poster. We did not 
agree with the poster, but admittedly, 
that does not give us license to remove it. 
However, the poster did not adhere to ; 
poster guidelines, and we feel that some 
action should have been taken by the 
administration or Student Senate.
We are seeking fair treatment and an 
open atmosphere between students. The 
same respect and freedom granted to 
one group of students should be given to 
all students. What is needed is coopera
tion and communication between all 
those involved. Furthermore, we hope 
and pray that the publicity concerning 
this case does not create further divi
sion. With these attitudes, we hope for a 
positive solution to these conflicts.
John Ettinger
Senior, Computer Engineering 
Daniel Cheong
Freshman, Chemical Engineering
[Editor's note: This letter was also 
signed by 20 other people.]
Two parties spoke to media
on
Lcilcr to the EditorEditor:
This letter is in ref
erence to a Tartan 
article [Professor LGttGF tO 
blasts media, 4/11]. pwjSftoB'
Patrick Mooney was Xfie ta,Ior 
found guilty of tearing down a poster 
which he found to be offensive but was 
found innocent of harassing the profes
sor. This finding of guilt in one matter 
and innocence in another came about 
through the University Disciplinary 
Committee, working with the system.
In The Tartan article and in our local 
media, the professor still insists he was 
harassed by Mooney, despite Mooney's 
being found innocent by the system. In 
addition, Mooney is criticized for tear
ing down the poster, because that showed 
that Mooney was not willing to work 
within the system to resolve disputes. 
So it appears as if both Mooney and the 
professor are going outside the system 
to bring attention to their respective 
plights.
Ray Mialki 
(E 81)

---------------------------------------------------

Ins Iideib u tidbsGos rskkab u Cm cBdok hll.T
Columnist bids farewell to University
David Hunt
This is the last column that I will write 
i:r The Tartan. Why? Because Ive decided 
jj leave CMU. After some deep soul searchig, I have decided to postpone my PhD for 
while so I can go out into the world and 
et some more work experience. Also, itll 
e nice to have a real income!
During my three years here Ive taken 
some very good classes and have done 
iiiite a bit of research. Ive debated people 
:n topical issues. Ive certainly gotten a lot 
jore aggressive in my ability to stand up 
jjr what I believe, and my beliefs have 
hanged. When I arrived I would have 
enthusiastically voted for a country-wide 
tun ban  now Im an NRA member and 
'jave started to snarl, The/ll get my gun 
then they pry it from my cold, dead fin[ers!
I have become a fan of being responsible 
&r yourself. You cant claim to be a func
tioning member of society when you pass 
the blame for your own actions and stupid
ity onto someone else. If you lie out in the 
niddle of the road, duplicating the infaaous scene in The Program, expect to get 
iurt or killed. Life is not risk free.
Im lucky to have made some great 
friends here. I think that first among them
is my advisor, who I view as both a 
mentor and a friend. Weve had our 
occasional disagreements, and I know 
that there are times when each of us was 
frustrated with the other, but all in all 
its been a pleasure and honor working 
as his grad slave ... I mean student.
Most of the people I know are in my 
department, and I regret not having 
made a better effort at really meeting 
people outside my field. Not just in other 
engineering disciplines, but in the hu
manities. I believe that theres a real 
split in this school between the technical 
and other fields, at least at the graduate 
level.
I will miss the campus. I will miss 
going to work in jeans and a T-shirt. I 
will miss my friends. And I will defi
nitely miss email and the bboards, with 
the access to many people and topics. I 
hope to get commercial access as soon as 
I can. Still, the break in the connection 
. will be hard for me.
I think the main thing I will not miss 
about CMU is the apathy. The vast ma
jority of the students on this campus 
couldnt care less about the events of the 
real world that are happening as we 
bury our collective heads in textbooks.
This past week President Clinton was 
on MTV in a question and answer ses
sion. During the show he brought up the 
Chicago public housing sweeps. For those 
who dont know, the President has been
pushing for public housing residents to 
have a clause in their leases allowing war
rantless searches of their apartments at 
any time. Since people generally dont live 
in public housing by choice, this is tanta
mount to coercion to sign away the Consti
tutional right against unreasonable search 
and seizure. While the government has 
said that refusal to sign that clause will 
not result in denial of housing, Im cynical 
enough to foresee that those who refuse 
will have a much more difficult time in 
getting housing.
President Clinton also said When per
sonal freedoms being abused, you have to 
move to limit it. Thats what we did in the 
announcement I made last weekend on 
the public housing projects, about how 
were going to have weapon sweeps and 
more things like that to try to make people 
safer in their communities.
More things like that? What else is in 
the works? In effect, he claims the govern
ment can limit freedoms when they arent 
used responsibly. Who defines responsi
bly? The government? How can we trust 
a government when they start openly talk
ing about curtailing the freedoms of all 
citizens when some few act criminally? 
Ive written about the power of words, but 
if we try to limit speech it always back
fires. How soon, I wonder, will the govern
ment decide that certain things cannot be 
said? The desire has been openly stated.
Ive written about the importance of
retaining the right to keep firearms. There 
are over 200 million guns in this country, 
the tiniest fraction of which are used crimi
nally, and most of those are obtained ille
gally. Yet the government wants to take 
them all away, knowing full well that crimi
nals wont be affected.
The Constitution guarantees the right to 
be secure from unreasonable search and 
seizure, yet in the War on Crime your 
rights are being eroded. From the clipper 
wiretap chip, to the relaxing of probable 
cause, to the civil seizure laws allowing the 
government to take your property without 
warrant or charge, your right to privacy 
and due process is vanishing. How long 
before curfews are enacted? What about 
tattooing felons foreheads, or fingerprint
ing to get a drivers license? What other 
freedoms will we be told are necessary to 
sacrifice in the War on Crime?
While you study and prepare for the 
future, look to the now. What happens in 
the country and the world affects you re
gardless of whether or not you notice it. If 
you ignore the news and the politics of the 
moment, and fail to take action, the real 
world to which you return could be very 
different from the one you left.
*Necessity is the excuse for every infringe
ment of freedom. It is the argument of the 
tyrant and the creed of the slave. Will
iam Pitt, 1763. David Hunt is a mechanical 
engineering graduate student.
CMU professors often neglect teaching
Eric J. Salzman
Youd think that when you get 
to the college level you are guar
anteed a certain quality of teach
ing. The truth is that in first 
grade you probably had a more 
qualified teacher than youll ever 
have in college. This is not to say 
that all professors are poor teach
ers; many are excellent. But to 
teach at the college level, profes
sors need certified expertise in 
their fields but absolutely no 
training in how to get that infor
mation across to students.
If Carnegie Mellon students 
want to teach at any level from 
kindergarten to high school, they
With Skibos destruction 
only months away, a build
ing full ofmemories will soon 
become a memory itself. If 
you could keep anything 
from Skibo, what would 
it be, and why?
can get a teaching certificate at 
Chatham college. The program 
consists of a minimum of five 
teaching classes, weekly obser
vational visits to a school, and 
twelve weeks of student teach
ing. All of the elements of this 
program are designed to make 
the students good teachers, ca
pable of conveyinginformation to 
pupils, regardless of the subject 
they teach.
So isnt there a bit of irony in 
the fact that at the university 
level, professors dont need a 
single hour of instruction on how 
to teach? This leads to problems 
for students. For example, when 
students in a professors class do 
poorly on an exam, often the pro
fessor refuses to acknowledge the 
possibility that he or she may not
George Kao
Senior
Math/CS
Absolutely nothing. Im 
happy its going away.
have taught the information well 
enough to provide students with 
the knowledge to perform suc
cessfully on the exam. In this 
case, an entire class suffers for 
the professors inadequacies.
Still, students do not have the 
right to blame academic failure 
on their professors. They must 
take their classes seriously and 
put in enough work to do well and 
make the class interesting.
Faculty/Course Evaluations 
(FCEs) are the students chance 
to inform the administration 
about poor teaching, so students 
must begin to take them seri
ously and make sure their feel
ings get across on the FCE. On 
the fourth floor of Warner Hall is 
a place called the teaching cen
ter. Its purpose is to show profesCristina Wagner
Sophomore
Music
The coffeehouse.
sors how to teach. The center 
holds programs and often video
tapes lectures to show professors 
ways to improve their style. If 
professors need to make use of 
this facility, make sure the FCE 
indicates that fact.
Students can also take advan
tage of Student Affairs. Feel free 
to inform the department of prob
lems you have with a professor. 
Make sure your complaints are 
grounded, but dont deny your 
right to the quality education that 
you pay for. It is the duty of Stu
dent Affairs to look after the best 
interests of the students, so use 
it.
Professors should care about 
their classes or at least pretend 
to. When professors give the im
pression that teaching- is just a
Talia Sofer
Freshman
CS
Grey Matter, because of its 
central location.
nuisance they must take care of 
in order to be allowed to do their 
research, students have a hard 
time getting themselves inter
ested.
There is a need for greater ef
forts on both the parts of the 
professors and the students for 
the quality of education at this 
university to improve. Before stu
dents can expect more from their 
professors, they must be willing 
to do the work and to make enough 
noise when there is a problem. 
Professors can help by using the 
teaching center to improve their 
abilities to teach and to put in the 
time to show they are interested 
in the education of their students.
Eric Jay Salzman is a fresh
man majoring in philosophy.
Mezuo Nwuneli
Junior
IM
The graduate coffeehouse.
THE TARTAN
Camegle Mellons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Iwgd/e3ty3QigmscccccccEywema kve/ATm
6nynpgyp IwccccccknGAmT 9emmysgmTw
5Aogymoo 6peccccccccccccKnAemy rmgyB
&mao Iwgd/eccccccccccccccccOno/y J/plme
P/eAG Iwgd/ecccccccccccccccEhhl kigss
kv/edo Iwgd/ecccccccccccccccIeg kdenAoo
Edgyp PmndAemo Iwc ccPenyu 6gimTo 
gVmeog/yo Q/3Iwgd/eo cccO/iy 5gppo 
Jnen Lnym
QnTmywne Iwgd/eccccccc5enumdd r/Gm
/oogme Kgdmenel Q/3Iwoc ETGmm 5mnT 
9meGngy Ic mkmVm Yttt 
/oogme opyc Iwc c.c Oc 69Tyymoo
Eed Q/3Iwgd/eocccccccccccccc6neu Ippmed
.nGoml r/yp
Si/d/ Iwgd/ecccccccccccccccccccOgG kylwme
Se/wAdg/y 6peccccccccccc:ndgm kanyp/
Q/vl 6nynpmeccccccccccccIgTmmy $Rkimn
klodmGo 6peccccccccccQinw 6nygmT
Eoodc &mao Iwgd/ecccccIeg knTBGny
Eoodc P/eAG Iwcccccccccccc:ego rTyeTio
Eoodc kv/edo Q/3IwoccccccEyAO 9Avdn
Qne/Tly kunenwn 
Eoodc gVmeog/yo Iwc :nemy 9eggyhmep 
Eoodc Se/wAdg/y 6pec memu NniTTn
Si/d/ kdnss 6nynpmeccccnVgw Smeel
neue//G 6nynpme ccccOmyygsme feo/
Q/ydeghAdgyp Iwgd/eo 
:mmpny P/Tub KnAen 6QTAemb 
5emywny 6PmmTlb Jgyn Kc feo/b 
:ndiTmmy Negpid
kmyg/e kdnss 
J/yl wmPTpT/b nVgw rAydb 6Tug 
:/inyoulCb Onygm 6QTAemb mTny 
6QATTnpi
kdnssaegdmeo 
6ndd EwTmeb Ono/y Eywenugb 6ndd 
5nTTb Omyygsme 5neuTyb :lGhmeTl 6c 
5nedT/b nVgw 5nBmT/yb ETTny 5/AewgAob 
6niAn Addnb Omoogn Pnypb EywT 
PenyT/yTb kinyy/y 9Thymlb ny 
9/Twanoomeb J/G rnevmeb Iwanew 
rnlmob Ono/y rmTyTmgyb OAodgy 
KnGbEypmTn 6/TT/lb 6nddima 
6mooymeb Omoom &gmb ./ynukgypinTb 
Ono/y kvmTnywb .i/ywn kdeAGgypmeb 
5mdinyl kAdd/yb Omyygsme JAeymeb 
6gum NnTumeb O/iy Nmhme
Eed
Gabrien Symons
Q/Ggo
Omssm 5/ndmob OAodgy Qnee/TTb &gu 
QnoTnd/ Oecb 6ndd 9/Twhmepb 6neu 
:nyde/aTdBb mUdme :/hnlnoiTb nVgw 
Nigdm
Si/d/
YgymmdEpneanTb :mVTyQimyb 5noomG 
I 83noimeb Eywema PT/emob Eywema 
6meG/ddb Snd SenonypoTdb 6neTn 
YnTmydg
neue//G 
O/y Q/ysmeb nygmT Pemlb J/G 9gThmedb 
6nepnemd kdnTTgypo
Se/wAdg/y 
5mul ITe/lb :my :enmGmeb :ndil 
KgAb Ono/y 6nb Qneegm 6/y/Apib 
ITgBnhmdi &mAGnyb Ieg SmddAob Omyyn 
kamdmeTTdoi
Q/vl
./oiyT 5inudnb Omyygsme P/ehmob 
6nwinV 9inydnb c .mymm rngeod/yb 
Kgon :eApTnub Iw kTnVgoinub Kmyyl 
1/Aypb ITgBnhmdi LnGhmTTg
5Aogymoo 
Qiegodn 5/ameb QiTydny kini
OAyg/e kdnss 
Ogy 5nmb ./hmed 5eAyougTTb Qinywen 
5ATodb 6TGT Qimypb :egodmy Q/yymTTb 
kmdi Ec Q/VrBb knGnydin 9meTib 
EGl rnAvTb ./y :AedTb 5Au &mmTb 
Qigy $ib 5mn kdnTTgypob nygmTTn 
J/v/Tb nay NnTTinAomyb YgVgmy 
Nmgoob 5egny 1/Ayp
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspa
per published by students during the fall and 
spring semesters, at no cost to members of 
the University community. It Is printed by West
ern Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions 
are available for the semester or academic 
year. The editorials appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section are the official opinion of 
The Tartan editorial board. Columns and politi
cal cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
Intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone num
ber for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that letters 
be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright  1994 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Violence spreads throughout our society
Featu
^MattBaU
Is violence good or bad? Given the crime 
in our country and the slaughter in B osnia 
and elsewhere, it seems as though this is 
an nonsensical question. Yet this has been 
the debate on these pages lately, with 
those who speak against violence being 
called names such as insecure, bizarre, 
illogical, and absurd.
Although name calling may appear to be 
a useful forensic technique, most people 
still profess the belief that violence is a bad 
thing. Though it may be unfortunately 
true that there are extreme cases when 
the threat of violence is deterred only by 
the threat of retaliation, these exceptions 
do not mean that violence is ever anything 
more than the lesser of two evils. Yet some 
people write-off violence as human na
ture and thus unalterable, concluding 
that wars and violent crime are immu
table. They conclude that the best path 
is wider access to greater firepower, in 
contradiction of Einstein, who said that, 
You cannot simultaneously prevent and 
prepare for war.
The use of violence as a solution has 
been accepted by todays society. The 
Menendez brothers were not being at
tacked with no other option but to retali
ate. However, their solution of holding 
shotguns to their defenseless parents 
heads (including their mother as she 
tried to crawl away) and firing pointblank is accepted. Are death sentences 
to be dispensed at anyones discretion?
Lorena Bobbitt was not expected to 
exercise her free will and leave but rather 
was allowed to inflict violence against a 
sleeping person. Yet does proving that 
she can be more violent than John Wayne 
Bobbitt promote justice or create peace 
between people? An eye for an eye leaves
us spiraling to the blind justice of mutual 
mutilation.
If I cant have respect, the feminists 
T-shirt announces, Ill settle for fear. Is 
this sentiment meant to gamer respect for 
the person wearing the shirt? Is this threat 
of violence anything other than simple 
terrorism? Are we left to live in singlegender and race-pure enclaves to protect 
us from one another ... from ourselves?
Instead of arming ourselves with more 
lethal sticks, there is a great deal each of 
us can do in our everyday lives to work 
against the acceptance and prevalence of 
violence. If we are to have any hope for 
peace, we must work for justice in every 
aspect of our lives.
George Bernard Shaw said, While we 
ourselves are the living graves of mur
dered beasts, how can we expect any ideal 
conditions on this earth? The violence we 
commit against other animals is not be
nign. Killing and eating animals is the 
most overt manifestation of humanitys
violence and cruelties. Noble Laureate 
Isaac Bashevis Singer wrote, In the way 
we treat animals, we are all Nazis.
Violence is not merely a problem of crimi
nals to be solved by more jails. Nor is 
violence an unalterable and inescapable 
consequence of human nature. Rather, we 
each make the choice to accept violence as 
a given, or to endorse non-violence as the 
ideal to be pursued.
If we want to live in armed enclaves, we 
can continue to support the NRA, our 
corpse-based diet, and the notion of vio
lence as human nature. But if we want to 
work for a better world, for a society not 
filled with fear, we must accept that vio
lence in all its forms is something that 
must be denounced and minimized by each 
of us. We must challenge and change not 
only our judgment of others but our actions 
as well.
Matt Ball is a PhD student in engineer
ing and public policy.
A PERSONS
OPINION
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

DALMG) p ) i c P J
THE CLEAR CHOICE
SAVE 
o0%
c Mg DIStOUMI pOD 
trU SIUDMISH pctULIY S SIcpp
IH CS-tHtKPOIMI Y Xcr:
OUD tOrPUIDIZD Y Xcr PDOVIDS c DIcILD 
OPIOrIDIt PDOpIL. IH DSULI...tOMpIDMt IM VISIOM pOD YOU.
IH Mg VISIOM - 
IM pDcrS cMD tOMIctIS:
SLtIIOM. II S IH pIDSI IHIMG IHcI rIS IH Y cI VDY 
DcLrO OPIItcL tMID. pDOr BOLD tOLODS cMD SOPHISIItcID 
PDOpILS IM pDcrS IO XIMDD gcD. GcS PDrcBL cMD 
DISPOScBL tOMIctIS. DcLrO HcS II cLL!
DR. R.T. GREENBERG, OPTOMETRIST
5824 FORBES AVENUE 
SQUIRREL HILL 
PHONE 521-2100
Celebrate Tradition
wi) a Balfour Class Ring
College memories can last a lifetime when they're 
preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. Sports, academics, 
degrees, years of graduation, and custom school 
designs can all be captured in your Balfour Class 
Ring... a tradition of excellence since 1931.
We will be on campus, Monday and Tuesday, April 
25 and 26, from 10 am - 4 pm, in Baker Hall.
No one remembers in so //my ways.
HODT  6UITE
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 
1 OR 2 BEDROOM 
APARTMENT SUITES
Only a few steps from fashionable Walnut street 
shops and restaurants. From $49 per day (on a 
monthly basis.) PLEASE CALL FOR SPECIAL UNI
VERSITY RATES. Includes free calls, cable TV, VCR, 
all linen completely equipped kitchen and parking.
(412)441-4444
5405 Fifth Avenue, Pittburgh, PA 15232 Toll Free 1-800-767-8483
MnhdmDMmD oGG:00 m:S6:.0 d:DnhhCB LnehTC
reCadmDMmD .GG:00 m:S6:.0 d:MnBCwnnd RCc Rnn:
WCdhCadmDMmD pGG:00 m:S6:.0 d:DnhhCB LnehTC
rkeBadmDMmD 5GG:00 m:S6:.0 d:MnBCwnnd RCc Rnn:
FBudmDMmD 6GG:00 m:S6:.0 d:DnhhCB LnehTC
Pm\eBdmDMmD 7GG:00 m:S.:00 d:MnBCwnnd RCc Rnn:
<D
01
MnhdmDMmD lGG:00 m:S6:.0 d:DnhhCB LnehTC
reCadmDMmD G0GG:00 m:S6:.0 d:MnBCwnnd RCc Rnn:
WCdhCadmDMmD GGGG:00 m:S6:.0 d:DnhhCB LnehTC
rkeBadmDMmD GoGG:00 m:S6:.0 d:MnBCwnnd RCc Rnn:
FBudmDMmD G.GG:00 m:S6:.0 d:DnhhCB LnehTC
Pm\eBdmDMmD GpGG:00 m:S.:00 d:MnBCwnnd RCc Rnn:
s
s
(ft
-O
The CMU Post Office Can Help!
Beginning Monday, May 2,1994 we will be 
selling boxes, packing tape and bubble wrap 
at two locations on campus.
We will send your packages home by United Parcel 
service after you have packed and sealed them.

---------------------------------------------------

ru\bC kndCa kuhTC nh mddChdus
SPORTS_______
Track competes at UAAs
The Puck Stops Here
by Allan Bourdius
The Montreal Canadiens play
off hopes for a Stanley Cup re
peat were dealt a serious blow 
this week when goaltender 
Patrick Roy  a three-time 
Vezina Trophy winner as the 
leagues best goalie and two-time 
Conn Smythe Trophy recipient 
as MVP of the playoffsentered 
a Montreal hospital with appen
dicitis. Roy played Saturday night 
and won, but his condition is not 
certain. Doctors have been treat
ing him with antibiotics in the 
hope of avoiding surgery, at least 
for now.
If Roy doesnt need to be put 
under the knife, he would prob
ably be able to play in game five 
of the Canadiens series with the 
Boston Bruins on Monday. If sur
gery is required, Roy would be 
lost to the Habs for at least 10-14 
days, meaning that he would be 
unable to return until the second 
round of the playoffs  if the 
Canadiens even make it there. 
With Roy laid up and backup Ron 
Tugnutt in goal, the Canadiens 
lost 63 to Boston on Thursday; 
the Bruins led the series, 21.
Both the New York Rangers 
and the Dallas Stars had the op
portunity to sweep their respec
tive series against the New York 
Islanders and the St. Louis Blues 
on Sunday. Through three games, 
the Rangers had outscored the 
Islanders 171, turning the Battle 
of New York into a bonafide rout. 
No wonder they call the Nassau 
Veterans Memorial Coliseum the 
Mausoleum.
St. Louis has somewhat of a 
better excuse, since theyve manSTmnom omm SKE1$PPkb vnpm 84
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The 1993-94 track and field 
season came to an end this week
end when the Carnegie Mellon 
track team competed in the UAA 
Championships held at Emory 
University in Atlanta.
The CMU mens team finished 
fifth in the UAA with 67 total 
points. First place was captured 
by Case Western Reserve Uni
versity with 131 points, followed 
by the University of Rochester, 
127; Emory University, 111; and 
Washington University of Mis
souri, 96. The teams trailing be
hind CMU in the mens competi
tion were New York University, 
38 points; the University of Chi
cago, 30; and Brandeis Univer
sity, 26.
In the womens competition, 
there were several individual 
highlights. CMU sophomore 
Missy Baustert was an NCAA 
Division III automatic qualifier 
and set a school-record time of 
1:03.06 in the 400-meter hurdles.
Baustert qualified for the com
petition coming up May 25-28 at 
North Central College in Naper
ville, Illinois. This was the sec
ond year in a row that she won 
theUAA crown in the 400-meter 
hurdles. Freshman teammate 
Penny Summerville, who quali
fied for the NCAA meet in javelin 
at the CMU Invitational, will also
be representing CMU in Naper
ville.
Baustert also placed third in 
the 400-meter run with another 
school-record time of 59.26.
Freshman Leslie Brown took 
second in the discus, throwing in 
excess of 115.
The womens 1600-meter relay 
team finished third, setting a 
school record with a time of 
4:07.69. Members of the relay 
team were freshman Saratu 
Mohammad, Baustert, sopho
more Stephanie Stine, and fresh
man Vonquitra Bebee.
Overall, CMU womens team 
finished sixth in the UAA with 61 
total points. Emory University 
and Washington University tied 
for first place with 100 points 
each. Brandeis University placed 
in a close second with 97 points, 
followed by Case Western Reserve 
University, 82; and New York 
University, 81. Finishing after 
CMU were the University of Chi
cago, 43; and finally the Univer
sity of Rochester, 25.
Due to travel conflicts, no more 
results were available at press 
time.
The team has two more meets 
before the NCAA championships. 
On Saturday, they travel to the 
Baldwin-Wallace College Invita
tional. The following Saturday, 
they travel across Oakland to 
compete in the University of Pitts
burgh Invitational.
/S'"
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-EditorGnbc ChjnDa NCw EhTbmhd \Bud
By ANUJ GUPTA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon mens golf 
team continued to warmup for 
the upcoming end of the season 
UAA tournament by participat
ing in two recent tournaments  
the Engineers Cup and the 
Greater Boston Invitational.
April 18th, the Tartan men 
squared off in the Engineers Cup
at Eagle Cress Golf Club in Troy, 
New York. The Tartans, with a 
score of334, dominated the tour
nament as sophomore Rick 
Rothrauff led them to their sec
ond consecutive Engineers Cup 
title. CMU was followed in the 
scoring by Massachusetts Insti
tute of Technology with 357, 
Rensselear Polytechnic Institute 
with a 376, New Jersey Institute 
of Technology with a 387 and
Worcester Polytechnic Institute 
which compiled a score of 388.
Rothrauff led the way for the 
Tartans by earning medalist hon
ors by compiling an 18-hole score 
of 83. Tartan senior Ryan Elliot 
finished in second place with an
18-hole score of 83. .
The Tartans then traveled to 
Cape Cod, Massachusetts to par
ticipate in the Greater Boston 
Invitational on April 19. The Tar
tans were not quite as successful 
as they were at previous tourna
ment  they finished sixth at the 
Quahnet Valley Country Club.
Boston College led the way with 
a score of 414 and was followed by 
Babson University with a 454, 
Harvard (455), Northeastern 
(461), Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology (467), Carnegie 
Mellon (472), Brandeis (476), 
Bently College (485), Tufts Uni
versity (488), and Boston Univer
sity with a score of 514. The star 
of the tournament was Bob 
Gorczynski of Boston College who 
was the medalist with a 78.
On April 25-26 the Tartan men 
will travel to the Sleepy Hollow 
Country Club in Tarreytown, 
New York to participate in the 
University Athletic Association 
Championships which will be 
hosted by New York University.Frisbee club Yuks it up on way to nationals
By CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The weekend before Carnival, the 
CMU Ultimate Frisbee team, Mr. Yuk, 
traveled back from the prestigious Ivies 
Plus Invitational victoriously. Unde
feated after winning the six games they 
played, they earned the Yale Cup. Un
fortunately, the Cornell Buds, winners 
of the Yale Cup in 1992, failed to return 
| the trophy.
The 11 Yuk players who made the 
| trip didnt seem to mind returning home 
empty-handed, though, graduate stu
dent Matt Weiss said. We beat Cornell 
15-13 in a rain-soaked semi-final match. 
It was our toughest game of the week| end.
Winning the Ivies Invitational, which 
included the best college teams in the 
Northeast region of the country, was a 
giant step for Mr. Yuk.
This year is our best shot to go to 
Nationals, Weiss said. After this year, 
we will be rebuilding. Id like to see some 
of the guys whove been around for five 
years go to Nationals.
Mr. Yuk is currently ranked fourth in 
the nation, according to the Ultimate 
Players Association (UPA) national col
legiate ranking system. Teams are 
ranked according to their record of wins 
and losses. The quality of the opposition 
is also considered during a power rat
ing in order to rank teams most accu
rately.
The UPA currently ranks CMU slightly 
behind Stanford, Eastern California Uni
versity (ECU), and the University of 
California at Santa Barbara (UCSB) and 
Was equal to the Cornell Buds. How
ever, after Yuks performance at the 
Ivies Invitational, they are favored over 
the Cornell Buds.
Mr. Yuks ultimate goal is to get to 
nationals, as they did in 1988. To attain 
this goal, they will have to play well at
the Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Delaware-West Virginia sectional tourna
ment this weekend in Princeton. They 
also need to place either first or second 
at the Mid-Atlantic Regional tourna
ment in Annapolis, Maryland, the fol
lowing week. The team to beat is the 
defending national 
collegiate champs, the 
.University of North 
Carolina at Wilm
ington, or ECU, the 
second best team in 
the country.
Mr. Yuk is now look
ing forward to regionals.
We dont know 
where theyre being 
held at this time, but 
we may have to drive
10-13 hours the week 
before finals. And well 
do it, Weiss said, re
ferring to Yuks dedi
cation.
The teams suc
cesses began in 1993 
at College Sectionals 
when the now legendary Nuprin Nine, 
playing with only two 
substitutes, cameagonizingly close to de
feating Rutgers in a 
semi-final game,
Weiss said.
Although Mr. Yuk finished fourth and 
was forced to forfeit the consolation game 
to Princeton due to the long trip back, 
opponents were impressed with CMUs 
competitiveness.
Over the Internet ultimate bboard, 
opponents wrote, CMU, playing with 
only nine, most of them injured in some 
way, gave Penn and Rutgers extremely 
tough games and would probably have 
won the section if they had had more
legs.
Mr. Yuk has maintained a 16-0 record 
in the spring season against college op
ponents. Junior third-year Yukster 
Dylan Sawyer-Villers smiled when he 
said, Over the past few years weve 
been compiling a long list of vendettas,
and it seems like since the fall, weve 
been checking them off one by one. 
Whats the key to Mr. Yuks success? 
Weve built up a core of strong players, 
and the new graduates have filled in key 
spots, fifth-year senior David Lionetti 
said. Probably the best addition to the 
team is graduate student Damon 
Schanle, whose disc-handling skills, ag
gressive blocks, and catches have been 
an asset to Mr. Yuk. Schanle went to
nationals twice with Carleton College 
and he brought his experience heire when 
he joined Mr. Yuk. Another strong addi
tion to Mr. Yuk is 6'3" graduate student 
Chris Andrews. Graduate student Josh 
Silverman, a veteran from the West 
Coast, has proved to be extremely fast 
with steady throws.
Lionetti will be re
turning in the fall. 
Eligibility is five 
years after you first 
j oin the UPA The idea 
is to keep college ranks 
at a slightly lower 
level, Lionetti said. I 
started playing the 
summer of92 when I 
met Matt. He taught 
me how to play.
As for a coach, Mr. 
Yuk is on its own, but 
junior captain Dave 
Williams tends to lead 
the team.
Lionetti said, Dave 
leads by example. 
Since were a club, we 
cant have mandatory 
practices, and the 
team isnt structured 
like a varsity sport. 
The good thing, 
though, is that every
one who comes out to 
play plays.
Veteran Mr. Yuk 
member and grad student Andrew 
Tomkins often joins up with Williams to 
create spontaneous plays.
Much of the teams success in running 
various plays is attributed to their nick
names.
Nicknames serve a dual purpose for 
Ultimate Frisbee. When you want to call 
a play, there are multiple names you can 
use for your teammates so the other 
team isnt able to anticipate anything,
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
Weiss explained.
One of the most interesting aspects 
about Ultimate Frisbee is that there are 
no referees. Weiss said, Even at the 
highest levels there arent any referees. 
This started out of necessity and devel
oped by design.
Lionetti added, Player control of the 
game is very important. This is good 
because then you have no excuses to 
blame a bad call on, but its sometimes 
bad because players tend to get caught 
up in the intensity and fail to make 
objective calls.
Not only has Mr. Yuk made progress 
on the field during tournament play, 
they really are coming together as good 
friends.
Tomkins, the five-year member, said, 
I just cant believe how much fun we are 
having as a team. In the past Yuk has 
felt to me like a bunch of people with 
whom I played ultimate, some of whom 
I liked, some of whom I didnt. This year 
we enjoy each others company; we re
ally are a team.
Weiss described what keeps them go
ing, The heart and soul of college Ulti
mate is playing in tournaments. Wed 
drive 8-9 hours to compete in a high 
caliber tournament if we had to, and its 
always worth it.
Early on I said that I dont think our 
season will be a failure if we dont make 
nationals, but it will be a failure if we 
dont give it a damned good try. Theres 
still a lot of work to do before the team 
can say it has given its best.
We have to play like a bunch of hun
gry sharks in a feeding frenzy; we have 
to want nationals more than we want to 
eatwhich is saying something for me! 
Right now I think Mr. Yuk looks hungry. 
Well find out if its eyes are too big for its 
stomach at sectionals on April 23.
For more information about Mr. Yuk 
or summer leagues, contact Lionetti at 
681-4623.

---------------------------------------------------

G0Ins Iideib u tidbsGos rskkab u Cm cBdok hll.
Devils, Sabres netminders stand tall
SKE1$PPkb se/G vnpm ?
aged to score some goals, but they still 
cant play defense.
The series between New Jersey and 
Buffalo has shaped up to be a true defen
sive classic. Over three games, both 
teams had allowed just four goals apiece. 
After getting shut out in game one 2-0, 
the Devils have rebounded with back-toback 2-1 wins. Through the three games, 
Buffalos likely Vezina recipient Dominik
Hasek has compiled a 1.33 goals against 
average. New Jerseys Martin Brodeurs 
mark stands at just 1.00.
The Pittsburgh Penguins have found 
themselves struggling against Jim 
Schoenfelds Washington Capitals. Pens 
coach Eddie Johnston is supposed to be 
a power play wizard, but his team went 
just one for 17 with the advantage 
through three games. This is somewhat 
of a curiosity, given Pittsburghs fire
power, but the Caps tight checking style 
has given the Pittsburgh stars fits. Caps 
defenseman Kevin Hatcher has really 
picked up his play under coach 
Schoenfeld.
After the victorious team hoists the 
Stanley Cup in early June, there will 
still be more hockey to watch in Pitts
burgh! For all you hockey fans out there 
who plan on spendingyour summer right 
here, youll probably want to check out
the Pittsburgh Phantoms, an expansion 
team in the youthful Roller Hockey In
ternational League (RHIL). The RH3L 
plays on rollerblades with no bluelines, 
hence no offsides plays and much quicker 
action.
Plenty of third and fourth-string NHL 
players will be featured and some top 
minor-leaguers as well. This is a great 
opportunity to see some of the best pros
pects in hockey today. Among other play
ers, female goaltenders Erin Whitte 
and Manon Rheaume have both signed 
with RHIL teams. Tickets figure to be 
dirt cheap. One advertised special for 
season tickets for all 25 home games at 
the Civic Arena cost just $75. This hockey 
guru says, Check it out!
Allan Bourdius is a fifth-year senior 
double majoring in applied history ana 
industrial management.
Former Philly closer tries to save career
The Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
I have been a Philadelphia 
Phillies fan ever since I was a 
child. I suffered through years of 
anguish as poor management and 
even worse draft selections added 
up to losing teams year after year. 
So when Joe Carter hit that fate
ful pitch from reliever Mitch Wil
liams into the left field seats to 
end the 1993 World Series, one 
can only imagine the despair that 
I felt, have felt since, and will 
continue to feel for years to come.
But recently when I heard a 
friend and fellow Phillies fan re
mark that they were glad to see 
the new Houston Astro come close 
to blowing a save in a game 
against the Chicago Cubs, I could 
not have been more disgusted.
Like it or not, Philly fans, Mitch 
Williams is a class act. Not only 
did he sit down for about an hour
after Game Six and answer every 
question that was thrown his way, 
but he has also managed to come 
out unscathed from a situation 
that in the past has driven many 
people to do unthinkable things.
Lets think back a bit to 1986. It 
was a cool October afternoon in 
Anaheim, California, and the 
California Angels were one strike 
away from attending the first 
World Series in Angels history. 
Ace reliever Donnie Moore was 
brought in with a man on first to 
close the game, but wound up 
giving up a game-winning home 
run to Boston Red Sox outfielder 
Dave Henderson. The Red Sox 
would go on to win the next game 
to win the pennant. A year after 
that pitch, Moores life had taken 
such a harsh downturn that he 
committed suicide.
Another example of how one 
simple mistake can drastically 
affect ones life came from the 
same year. One does not need to 
be 'reminded that the Red Sox 
would have won the 1986 World 
Series had the ball not gone 
through Bill Buckners legs, but 
does anybody remember how the 
career of one of the greatest hit
ters of that era took a turn for the
worse come the 1987 season? 
Buckner never did regain his .300 
batting average form, and as re
cently as a year ago was forced to 
sell the memorabilia he had at
tained from that World Series, so 
that he could finally have some 
peace.
Meanwhile, not 
only has Williams 
retained his compo
sure, but he appar
ently has also re
gained the 95 milesper-hour fastball, as 
well as the nasty 
slider and slurve 
which helped him 
become the fourth 
youngest reliever in 
the history of the 
game to reach 100 saves, and 
helped the Philadelphia Phillies 
win the National League East 
last year.
The game of baseball is a game 
of extremes  one minute one 
can bask in ones own glory, and 
the next minute one may be 
shipped out of town like a con
victed felon.
Williams has survived the 
toughest of tests that the base
ball gods can throw his way, and
may much success come his way 
in the future.
Its prime time: Reasons for 
the dominating start by the At
lanta Braves are numerous. But 
one of the main reasons is the 
sensational start by none other 
than outfielder Prime Time
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
Deion Sanders. By the time this 
season is over, Lenny Dykstra 
may lose his distinction as the 
best leadoff hitter in the National 
League. Not only is Sanders the 
fastest man in the National 
League, but he also has Rickey 
Henderson-type power potential. 
Although we cannot expect him 
to hit at a .350 clip for the rest of 
the year, leading the league in 
runs scored and stolen bases is no 
fluke.
Sanders is a pure athlete and, 
much like Bo Jackson in his 
prime, can excel at anything he 
puts his mind to. So now that he 
has decided to put in a full seasons 
effort into baseball, the rest of 
the National League should be 
warned; Prime Time is no re
run: he is the real thing.
Those amazin Mets: Okay, 
the Mets are in second place. 
Whats the joke? Actually the joke 
is being played on us, the fans, for 
General Manager Joe Mclllvaines rebuilding job is going 
much faster than anticipated.
Of course second place is a bit 
of a reach especially since one 
cannot expect the Expos, Phillies 
and Marlins to all remain at a 
.500 winning percentage for the 
rest of the year. But it is safe to 
say that the Mets will not hold 
the distinction as the worst team 
in the majors this year.
Mclllvaine has done one heck 
of a job of instilling some life into 
a team that as recently as last 
October was six feet under.
It appears that centerfielder 
Ryan Thompson is finally coming 
to realize his long-known poten
tial, and players such as David 
Segui and Jose Vizcaino are fi
nally getting chances to play ev
ery day, thus showing the talenti 
that were hidden for several years 
behind better players on othei 
teams. And is there anybody ii 
the league right now who cart 
pitch to Jeff Kent? Although hi 
home run pace probably won' 
keep up (eight homers in the firsl 
three weeks of the season), he 
has established himself as an of
fensive force to be dealt with 
Catcher Kelly Stinnett who was' 
a Rule V pick from Cleveland has 
also done a solid job, stealing the 
job from incumbent Todc 
Hundley, and established play
ers such as Jeromy Bumitz and 
B obby Bonilla havent even found 
their rhythms yet.
Another pleasant surprise has 
been the continued progress 
pitching prospect Bobby Jones. 
He has gone eight innings-plus 
twice already this year and 
an earned run average just above 
3.00. Star Bret Saberhagen has 
also regained his form, and closer 
John Franco is on pace for at 
least a 25-save season.
Anuj Gupta, Tartan assistant 
Sports editor, is a sophomore 
chemical engineering major.
ATTENTION PRESIDENTS!
Please Tell Your Housemates 
About the Many Services that Mail Boxes Etc. 
Offers Students Moving Home!
? Moving Boxes ? Bubble Wrap
? Packaging Tape ? Mailing Labels
? Foam Peanuts
Thank You 
For Your Help!
ci 1993 Mail Bores Etc.
MAIL BOXES ETC
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
(NEAR FORBES AVE S CARNEGIE MUSEUM) 
PITTSBURGH PA 15213
(412) 687-6100
Franchises Independently Owned & Operated.
AOO
Alpha Phi Omega 
National Service Fraternity 
Is now accepting applications for the 
Kent D. Schaffer Memorial Scholarship 
The scholarship is for four hundred dollars
Competition for the Scholarship is open to any un
dergraduate who is neither a pledge nor a brother 
of the Kappa chapter, Alpha Phi Omega nor a past 
winner of the Kent D. Schaffer Memorial Schol
arship.
This scholarship is awarded annually to the appli
cant whose activities and involvement best exem
plify the ideals of Alpha Phi Omega: Leadership, 
Friendship, and Service. The award is not related 
to financial need nor academic standing.
Please pick up an application from the Skibo In
formation desk. Applications are due Saturday, 
May 7th.
For more information, please contact 
aphio+@ andrew.cmu.edu or call William Frank at 
521-0326.

---------------------------------------------------

Ins Iideib u tidbsGos rskkab u Cm cBdok hll.GG
IM News
Student / Faculty 
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
classified
JOBS
Greeks and Clubs: Earn $50 - $250 for 
yourself plus up to $500 for your club! 
This fundraiser costs nothing and lasts 
one week. Call now and receive a free 
gift. 1-800-932-0528 ext.65
Free money for school... well almost! 
Scholarships guaranteed  risk free.
; Appointments only: Battista's Educa1 tional Endowment Fund Find (BEEFF) 
i 531-6862.
Hotel Maintenance 2 full time summer 
jobs In Shadyside. Landscape, paint, 
vacuum, clean. $5/hr. start, raise in 30 
days + bonus and part time in fall 
available .to summer help. 682-2300
HOUSING
Shadyside home for sale: five bed
rooms; two bathrooms; painted 1994;
I third floor completely renovated 1990; 
central air 1990; high efficiency furnace 
1994; hot water heater 1993; security 
system; stained glass; oak and marble; 
woodburning fireplaces; large rooms; 
huge walk-in closets; large front porch; 2 
off-street parking; close to PAT and EBA; 
5162,000; call 362-1389
Try us again in August!
North Oakland(Melwood Avenue) Large 
2 BR apartment available. May through 
August. Furnished, balcony, rent 
negotiable. Call Yindra @ 683-3557.
MISC
Townsend Booksellers. We buy 
thousands of worthwhile books in all 
scholarly and technical subjects and the 
arts. Best prices paid or generous trade 
credit. Visit us for out-of-print, used, and 
rare books. Open daily: Monday - 
Saturday, 1 lam-6 pm, Sunday l-5pm. 
Near campus at 4612 Henry St. (off S. 
Craig) 682-8030.
In Search of Architectural "ingrid." The 
palace of good food is being built, but a 
temple without a goddess is just another 
Pizza Hut. I want to be your milkman in 
the morning and your ice cream man 
when your day is through. And I hope 
that you'll be be right there beside me. 
Let Steve know at P:0. Box 81925 Pgh. 17.
ENGINEERING & ARCHITECTURAL 
STUDENTS: Enhance your skills and 
employment opportunities by learning 
computer-aided drafting & design 
(CADD) at Pittsburgh Technical Institute. 
Short-term (6 weeks) evening classes 
start monthly. For information contact 
Carmen Sporio at 232-3940.
CbmaaucuCd Rm\Ca
1-20 words..........$5.00 / wk
21-50 words.......$8.00 / wk
51-100 words....$10.00 / wk
Classifieds must be paid in 
cash or by check before the 
first-scheduled run date.
On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication.
TRAVEL
SPRING BREAK 1994 Cancn, Bahamas, 
Jamaica, Florida St Padre! 110% Lowest 
Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends 
and your trip is free! TAKE A BREAK 
STUDENT TRAVEL (800) 328-7283
Student Summer Storage. Forbes Ave. 
location. Pick up available. Call Shanahan 
Moving and Storage 488-3111.
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEYBALL
Commissioner. Chris Paredis, x8-7121 
The finals will be played May 1.
FLOOR HOCKEY
Commissioners:
Majors: Dave Ekem, x2-3922; Minors: 
Jim Saxon, x2-3872 and Pat Leach, x2- 
538; Women Only: Trish Williams, x2- 
;609
Beta Babl won the Majors champion
ship, Phi Kap won the Women Only 
dtle, and the Snowdogs were crowned 
ihampions of the Minor league.
WATER BASKETBALL
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2-3922 
Schedules can be picked up in the IM 
Office. The IM department requests that
baskets be kept away from the pool door. 
The certified lifeguard is Denise 
Fenwick, x2-2581.
FENCING
Commissioner: Thibaut de Barros 
Conti, x2-3350
The last finals will be held Tuesday.
SgIrrIMG
Commissioner: Amy Watchorn, x2- 
3104
Eighteen swimmers and five teams 
competed. The swim team and Denise 
Fenwick served as officials. The Fluid 
Mechanics, SAE, and Phi Kap all per
formed well in the open races. The Fluid 
Mechanics also claimed the Women Only 
title.
SOFTBALL
Commissioners:
Majors: Dave Ekem, x2-3922; Inter
mediate: Pat Leach, x2-2538; Minors: 
Jim Saxon, x2-3872; Women Only: Trish 
Williams, x2-2609
Softball playoffs will begin Tuesday, 
and brackets will be posted after 4 pm on 
Monday. It is important that all teams 
call Assistant IM Director Mike 
Mastroianni (x8-2193) or the IM Office 
(x8-2214) for their schedules.
FRISBEE GOLF
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2-3922
The matches will be played on Satur
day at the Schenley Park course. For 
more information, contact the commis
sioner or the IM Office.
ULTIMATE FRISBEE
Commissioner: Jim Saxon, x2-3872 
All matches will be held on Saturday.
E3CKBALL
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2-3922 
All matches will be played on the foot
ball field. The tournament will be held 
Saturday. The sport is co-rec: five males 
and five females per team.
TRACK & FIELD
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2-3922 
The meet will be held tonight begin
ning at 6:30 pm on the CMU track. The 
list of events is posted on the IM bulletin 
board. There will be special heats for 
women only and a number of field events 
in addition to the running.
BUSINESS
The annual IM banquet will be held 
Tuesday, May 3, in the Presidents Din
ing Room. Ribs will be served at 5 pm 
and dinner will begin at 6 pm. Officers 
for next year were elected: Jim Saxon 
will be the president, and Amy Watchom 
will be the womens president. Dave 
Ekem, Pat Leach, Trish Williams, and 
Jim Saxon were nominated for the IM 
Person of the Year award. All IM sports 
should be finished by Mayl. The next IM 
board meeting will be held Wednesday, 
May 4, at 5 pm in the Presidents Dining 
Room in Skibo Hall.
Compiled by 
ERIC STRAUSSplayoffs near, awards predictions abound
In Your Face
by Seth A. Covitz
All right! With this being the 
last week of classes, the last week 
if The Tartan, and the just-fin
ished last week of the NBA regu
lar season, I think its time /all 
got excited about something. 
Summer? No. No more Tartan? 
No. The NBA Playoffs? Yes, the 
NBA playoffs. You know who is 
in (both the Miami Heat and the 
Orlando Magic), you know who is 
not in (Michael Jordan), and you 
know who will win it all (Seattle), 
so the only thing left is for me to 
wrap up this years In Your Face 
with some awards.
Celtics. Ask Hakeem The Wet 
Dream Olajuwon what hap
pened when they lost to Dallas 
also last weekend. Does this 
sound like tuning up to you?
NBA Coach Of The Year:
Lenny Wilkens  The outstand
ing coach of the Atlanta Hawks 
needs only one year to become 
the winningest coach in NBA his
tory. Wilkens has led the uncoachables to the top spot in the 
Central Division in his first year 
as their coach, a place the Hawks 
havent been since 1986, when 
another Wilkins, Dominique, held 
court. Now, if he can do a little 
better in the playoffs than he did 
in Cleveland...
Most Improved Player:
Hubert DavisThis secondyear 
player has improved so much  
talk about a fifth stringer!  he 
even earned a starting role with 
the Atlantic Division Champ New
York Knicks. This former firstround pick, who opened the sea
son behind John Starks, Rolando 
Blackman, Tony Campbell, and
perhaps even Bo Kimble, has hit 
clutch shots in clutch situations, 
and has given the Knicks hope 
when every guard to take the job
has ended up sidelined (a.k.a. 
Starks and Doc Eivers).
NBA Rookie Of The Year:
Chris Webber  He is the man. 
He has been just as exciting play
ing for Golden State as he was for 
Michigan. He has given instruc
tion to Barkley and to many oth
ers in his rookie season. With 
Golden State stars Tim 
Hardaway and Sarunas Marciulionis out for the year, and Chris 
Mullin subpar due to injuries, 
Webber has led the Warriors, in 
spite of playing out of position at 
center. Yeah, Anfemee Hard
away is very, very good, but 
Webber has become a focus for 
his team, where Hardaway still 
has to play second fiddle to 
Shaquille (Im too bad for Oc
tane) Diesel ONeal. Uh, what
ever, Shaq...
NBA Most Disappointing 
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art CoEditor Team: Charlotte Hornets-One
hopes that Larry Johnson and 
Alonzo Mourning can stay 
healthy enough for them to meet 
their potential next season. Also, 
now that Charlotte is eligible for 
the NBAs draft lottery, maybe 
the Hornets luck will continue 
and they can get their hands on 
Jason Kidd, Glenn Robinson, or 
Grant Hill. Hmm ...
NBA Most Pathetic Team:
Philadelphia 76ers  In the last 
week of the season, their average 
loss was by more than 40 points. 
Their hope of the future, Shawn 
Bradley, missed almost half the 
season. Enough said ... maybe 
theyll move to Pittsburgh!
Most Exciting Playoffs Ever:
This years should be the great
est. Anyone can win. Anyone but 
Chicago, that is.
Seth A. Covitz is a sophomore 
computer science major.
NBA Most Valuable Player:
David Robinson  The Admi
ral has more than deserved his 
rank this year. True, he has Den
nis Rodman to take his focus away 
from rebounding, but Rodman 
has also instilled in Robinson the 
fire that he needed to achieve. 
Ask Scottie Pippen what hap
pened to his fire in last weekends 
double-overtime loss to the
IMMIGRANT VISA 
LOTTERY
55,000 Permanent Resident Visas
Available In Upcoming Lottery
For more information contact: 
VENTRESCA & VENTRESCA 
Attorneys at Law
(412) 261-5366
Take advantage of your summer and make 
"The Smart Choice": get a head start on your next 
semester.
Whether you want to improve a grade or lighten 
your next course load, CCAC is the place to do it. 
Pittsburgh's CCAC offers a wide variety of summer 
courses guaranteed to transfer to other colleges and 
universities. You can do it with four, six, eight
or ten week sessions.
As Pennsylvania's largest community college, 
CCAC helped over 109,000 students last year to 
get an eage in today's labor market.
This summer, get more than a ton from your 
vacation. Make "Tne Smart Choice" and call your 
nearest CCAC campus today for complete 
enrollment information.
 Business  Computers  Sciences  English  Sociology  Psychology  Engineering  Drafting & Design  Mathematics  Speech
COMMUNIrY COLLEGE OF ALLEGENY COUNrY
AbbCTkChD Cm:dea BnDcC Cn:dea NnB\k Cm:dea Pne\k Cm:dea
NnB\k PudCM MnhBnCyubbC NnB\k ubba WCa\ Muccbuh
iu\\abeBTk pGoSo.7So5GG pGoS.7GS865G pGoS.66S7000 pGoSp6lSGG00

---------------------------------------------------

PIZZA OUTLET
687-9555
Pizzas  Gourmet Pizzas  Hoagies  Calzones  Salads  Breadsticks
LARGE G6CEEPE iIZZA
TOPPINGS EXTRA. ONE COUPON PER ORDER. PLEASE 
MENTION COUPON WHEN ORDERING. NOT VALID 
WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. EXPIRES 5/15/94.

---------------------------------------------------

dossier
DEPIGN LIrERARY RAG
InsiId ebbut
i

---------------------------------------------------

dossier
DESIGN Q LITERARY RAG
Loesdid: yoeadH Aimee Beai 
Loesdid: yoeadH Gerry DeSeve
DssoGb yoeadH Ryan J. McGinness
THIS IS the sensational, startling, sagacious, significantly superb SENIOR Issue! Never saccharine, sappy or soporific! 
Thanks, seniors, for contributing, and just remember: you may never be published again! Ha, ha, ha... (Evil laughter)
No, actually, I think there are some fantastic writers graduating this year. I cant wait to see a few first books. And of course 
thanks to all of the writers who have helped make Dossier happen this year. Youre super!Aimee Beal
Seniors: it is your right and it is your privilege. Immediately following commencement, 
take a blowtorch to Skibo. Your heart will be in the work.Gerry DeSeve
The plan to prepare the public for eventual confrontation with an alien race is in full force. The public is being bombarded 
with movies, radio, advertising, television,... depicting almost every aspect of the true nature of the alien presence.
This includes the good and the bad. Look around and pay attention. The aliens are planning to make their presence known, 
and the government is preparing you for it so that there will be no panic.Ryan J. McGinness

---------------------------------------------------

CONrENrP?
ON DAYS
gadys: Pam Greca
DssoGb: Melanie Radulescu-Semerad
PEOPLE
DssoGb: Naomi Pearson3 #NOT TITLED
gadys: Gerry DeSeve 
DssoGb: Jon Lyness
4
5 
NECESSARY THINGS
gadys: Micki Kochanskyj
DssoGb: Clint Golden
PIANIST
gadys: Eugene Kuo 
DssoGb: Ryan J. McGinness
8
lO
NO TRESPASSING
gadys: Kymberely Bartlo 
DssoGb: Tony DeFigio
PEZ
 12DAD PEED
gadys: Tim Williams 
DssoGb: Jeremy Epstein
WOODCUTS
DssoGb: Janice McClure
7BAREFOOT
gadys: Tracy Perneta 
DssoGb: Ryan J. McGinness
9*WINGS
gadys: Jeanne Bauer
DssoGb: WillGajJy
11DINNERS READY
gadys: Jeanne Bauer 
DssoGb: Ryan J. McGinness
13SIGNAGE
DssoGb: Ryan J. McGinness

---------------------------------------------------

On Days
I wear my hair wound tight behind my head,
I forge myself delicate, lithe, muted
like water-color ballerinas bending at the barre.
And I have an excuse 
for my neck
to be long, 
and my arms
to be long, 
and my legs
to be long.
And I walk with the wind 
pushing my eyes shut 
so I only see the person 
I feel I am.
The one you begged 
closer, closer, 
kissed her shoulder; 
and called the perfect girl.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

[not titled]
GCBBD DCPCyC

---------------------------------------------------

r: fiensd \nng :C \n :D cuBa\ bnhcuBC wkCh 
H wma CuTk\t H ghCw \kC u:dnB\mhcC nc \kC CyCh\t 
rkC nbdCB TeDa wkn kmd TnhC amud \km\ u\ kmd 
\eBhCd k: uh\n :Ch be\ \kCD wnebdh\ amD mhD
\kuhT CbaCt GnuhT :Cmh\ \km\ Dne wCBC \Bea\Cd uh 
iBnc\CB Cneh\Dt Yne wCBC hn bnhTCB m bnD wkn 
wnebd \eBh \mubM nB nhC wkn TmyC mwmD aCcBC\a \n 
\knaC wkn wCBCh'\ \kCBCt
WC debbCd uh\n buhC bCkuhd \kC n\kCB ducgeda 
mhd cubCd uh\n GubbCB\ cuCbd m\ deagt MD cm\kCB kmd 
\nbd :C \km\ \kuhTa a\mB\Cd mc\CB u\ Tn\ dmBgt Uh\ub 
\kChM u'd kmyC \n wmu\t I wma aeddnaCd \n mc\ bugC kC 
dudt KCCd qeuC\ mhd bCkmyCM I BC:C:bCB ku: amD
uhTM Dne'BC dbmDuhT uh m duccCBCh\ bCmTeC hnwt
Mn: kmd dmcgCd ea m cnbd ckucgCh duhhCB 
mhd an:C dndt I debbCd dnwh \kC BCmB Tm\C nc neB 
\BecgM cm\kCB bBneTk\ \kC :Cmb bmcgt WC m\C mhd I 
gucgCd :D \nCa bmcg mhd cnB\k eh\ub \kCD a\ecg uh 
\kC TBnehdt MCh wnebd dmaa bD mhd amD kCbbn \n eaM 
mag uc wC wmh\Cd :nBC cnnd nB an:C duCt MD cm\kCB 
mbwmDa dCcbuhCdt rkCaC mBC Tnnd dCndbCM kC amud \n 
:Ct
gnsb ws wsds yabsH m: fiensd ksfe iby wsbe 
obea ens cib wnoks I niy i caakos iby wiecnsy 
svsd:abs GseeobG dsiy:. cfesd i fsw mamsbesH rd. 
BsbsyoceH m: esicnsd cims PB iby isksy naw I 
wisH I eaky nom h wis fobs. Hs sioy enie oe wis i 
Gaay boGneH enie ens bdsszs wisb'e eaa biy. I 
iGdssy woen nom. r: fiensd cims bick idaPby iby 
sioy nskka iby isksy naw I wis yaobG ob scnaak. rd. 
Bsbsyoce sioy enie svsd:enobG wis GaobG wskkH bPe I 
wis i koeeks eodsy ob ens madbobG. Inos wis edPsH I'y 
bssb GseeobG PB sidk: fad i wnoks ea nskB fiensd ob 
ens :idyH iby h niy edaPbks sei:obG iwiksH
I jPse wibe ea miks sPds enie nss cksid
nsiysy sbaPGn fad ens PksyGs. Inies ib omBadeibe 
Bide af ens yi:H sioy rd. BsbsyoceH I'kk sss :aP ie 
ens codcksH" Insds wis ib ayy kaak af Bdoys ob nos
CDCat
MD cm\kCB amud Tnnd bDC \n ku: \kCh 
TBmbbCd \kC bmcg nc :D hCcgt
"Lua\Ch \n :CM bnDM I dnh'\ cmBC uc Dne'BC 
mbne\ \n duCM be\ cn:C MnhdmD :nBhuhT I wmh\ Dne 
m\ \kC cBnh\ nc \kC cbmaa amDuhT DneB ibCdTC nc 
AbbCTumhcC bnedCB \kmh mhDnhCt Dn Dne ehdCB
a\mhd?"
I kCau\m\Cd cnB m :n:mmut C debM :D cmcC 
uh\n bua mhd I cnebd a:Cbb awCC\ mbcnknbt Dn Dne?
YCa auBM"
Gnnd \kChM C BCbCmaCd :Ct "PmD u\ hnwM
G a\nnd aubCh\bD mhd awmbbnwCdM u\ cm:C uh\n 
:D :uhd mhd I bCTmh \n adCmgt WkCh I BCmckCd \n 
\kC cbmTM :D cm\kCB abmddCd :D kmhd nh\n :D 
ckCaut
rkm\ wma cuhCM buC amud wkCh I kmd cuh
uakCdM Dn u\ jea\ bugC \km\M" G amw m cm:dcuBC 
BCcbCc\uhT uh kua CDCaM
Dud Dne aCC MmDnB rkn:danha cmB? rkC 
nhC I aknwCd Dne nB; ike wmD uh?" I amud DCaM "Yne 
Tn cuhd u\ mhd a\mD \kCBC wu\k \kC BCa\ nc \kC bnDat"
I wmbgCd \kBneTk \kC cmBa duzzDM ehmbbC \n 
TC\ :D bCmBuhTat MCh wCBC :nyuhT mBnehd qeucgbDM 
mhd \kC buTk\ wma TnhCt I amw \kC buT CkBDabCBM be\ 
MmDnB rkn:danh wmah\ wu\k u\t Pn:C bnDa wCBC 
\kCBCM nhCa I kmd aCCh bCcnBCM be\ dudh'\ ghnwt 
WkCh I cm:C ed \n \kC:M \kCD wCBC dBuhguhT bCCBt 
FnB m cCw :n:Ch\a I knyCBCd hCmB \kC BCmB \uBCM 
mynuduhT \kCuB qeCa\unhat
OhC nc wmbgCd ed \n :CM Yne'BC DnehTM 
muh\ Dne? I cBnzCM PeddChbD I cCb\ DnehTM CyCh 
\kneTk I hCyCB \kneTk\ nc :DaCbc \km\ wmD bCcnBCt 
MnBC bnDa a\mB\Cd \n wmbg mBnehd \n wkCBC wC 
wCBCt rkCBC wma m bnng uh \kCuB CDCa wkuck :mdC 
:C ehaeBC nc wkD G wma bCuhT magCd mbne\ :D mTCM
I \nbd \kC: G wma CuTk\M bCcmeaC I kmd hn\kuhT CbaC 
\n amDt
Pku\M kC'a wmD \nn DnehTt rkC bnDa 
aCC:Cd \n mTBCCt rkCD cbnaCd uh nyCB :C mhd I cCb\ 
m cuhTCB dBuyC uh\n :D aknebdCBt MD bmcg wCh\ uh\n 
\kC cmB dnnBM mhd \kC kmhdbC ku\ :D hCcgM
BnDaM wkm\'a TnuhT e;i?
Nn\kuhTM dmdM" nhC amudM
WCbbM Tnndt C dmeaCdM auzCd ea edt Yne 
mbb mBC wkm\a cmbbCd hCndkD\Cat rkm\ :Cmha DnehT 
:ChM I: TnuhT \n mag Dne \n buhC ed mhd de\ \kCaC 
bbuhdcnbda nht WkCh DneBC dnhCM \eBh \n DneB BuTk\ 
mhd de\ DneB BuTk\ mB: nh \kC aknebdCB nc \kC hCn
dkD\C uh cBnh\ nc Dnet Ic kC a\mB\a wmbguhTM Dne wmbg 
\nnM ngmD?
WC hnddCdt C TmyC ea a\mBckD bmhdmhhma 
wkuck wC \uCd mBnehd neB kCmdat A :mh cm:C bD 
mhd debbCd \kC: \uTk\M
I dnh'\ BC:C:bCB wmbguhT \kBneTk \kC cuCbdM 
nB knw wC Tn\ nh\n \kC dbm\cnB:t Be\ I cmh a:Cbb 
\kC kCmyD cCB\ubuzCB mhd bnhcuBC TmanbuhCt rkCBC 
wCBC wnBda amud bD MmDnB rkn:danh wkuck wC 
BCdCm\Cd mhd \kCh awnBC wC wnebd hCyCB amD \kC: 
munedt WkCh \kua wma dnhCM neB bbuhdcnbda wCBC 
\mgCh ncc mhd neB kCmda kCbdM CDCa cnBwmBdt
G amw m cBnaa BmTuhT wu\k cuBCM cuc\D cCC\ kuTkM 
beBhuhT uh\n :D BC\uhmaM I \BuCd \eBhuhT mwmDM be\ 
cm\kCB'a BneTk kmhda gCd\ :C bnnguhT a\BmuTk\t rkC 
cBnaa kuaaCd mhd dBnddCd cbm:C dnwh \n \kC 
TBnehdt rkCBC wCBC :Ch uh wku\C BnbCaM an:C nh 
knBaCaM wm\ckuhT eat I wma CbCc\Buc wu\k cCmBM u 
a\BeTTbCd \n TC\ mwmDM cnhyuhcCd I :uTk\ bC awCd\ 
ed uh\n \kC cBnaaM beBhCd mbuyCt
MD cm\kCB kCbd :C \uTk\M duhhuhT :C wu\k kua 
ghCCa mhd Cbbnwat I cCb\ dBCaaeBC CyCBDwkCBC nh :D 
bmcg mhd \kuTkat WkCh I a\nddCd BCaua\uhTM kC bC\ 
:C TnM I a\nnd bD :DaCbc mhd wm\ckCd \kC cBnaa 
debaC wu\k cuBCt C adeh :C mBnehd mhd kCbd :C 
kmBdt I keTTCd ku: bmcg wu\kne\ ghnwuhT wkDt

---------------------------------------------------

Necessary Things
Packing for camp in the summer, my mother 
always said, "Include everything you want 
to bring; then leave behind two-thirds."
We took only the necessary things, the 
flashlight, the penknives, the favorite 
worn-out bunny hidden in a rolled up sock.
In the vast and empty loneliness that was 
a cabin after dark, the familiar thing could 
be closely held, to ward off hostile missiles from 
alien craft  sneakers, spitballs, stale rolls 
left over from dinner the night before.
In the top bunk late at night
the thought of food brought tears to one's eyes,
food made to be savored, not thrown about.
And in the hush and barely concealed crackle
of unfolding gum and candy wrappers,
we watched breathless and uncomprehending
as man stepped onto the moon.
In their tiny capsule, human suitcase, 
they'd packed all they wanted, everything 
they thought they'd need; until someone 
made them take the crucial two-thirds out. 
Left to fend for themselves in space, they 
mourned not having the familiar thing, 
clutched in their equally sweaty hands 
steely cans of Shark Repellent 
to their lonesome hearts instead.

---------------------------------------------------

t>.  V t fe.** *t 

---------------------------------------------------

I hare "beer, told to turn pages for C-orodin, 
the aging concert pianist, although I cannot 
read music, I sit next to him at the grand 
piano, looking past his-neck at'the audience.
He nods, and I turn the page. I<o one knows 
the difference, although I am not looking at 
the music. I used to play piano, until the 
black dots started to swarm around my head 
like gnats. C-orodin used to memorize the music, 
although age has now kept him from remembering 
most of the time. I wish I could forget, to 
maybe plav again. I try not to remember the
orodin
although I
music memorized. . 
the piano until, 
G-orodin nod again 
music is not ther
I reach to turn -the page, but *th< 
G-orodin r.ods again, now staring 
iast the sheet of music in front
of his eves. I reach up to turn the page but instead 
grab the notes in my hand, stretching them, from the 
page until I am tangled in the strands of the stares. 
The music refuses to surrender its notes, and it 
falls from the piano, fluttering to the ground at my 
feet. G-orodin fails asleep, his head crashing a 
meaningless chord on the keyboard. The audience 
laughs, then applauds. I rise, bow, and leave Gorodin 
to jsleep. He needs his rest. j j
SjTrrtl

---------------------------------------------------

My baby toe fell off last night not just the nail from being crushed in a door, the entire toe, gone.
I wonder if he noticed you were gone when he was inside me.Did he ever feel your ten week old form moving?Did he notice your absence?
I walk with a limp
hands on my water-bloated bellykeep it from expandingfrom reminding me of you,your subtle weight
and its subtle loss.
v- I wonder if I noticed
your absence the same way he -:.^iiptices my missing toe. 'Probably not.

---------------------------------------------------

Y
ou wake up to the feel of swamp bugs feasting on your 
flesh. You quickly pull your legs back into the car, and 
roll up the window. Cramping your body into a new 
position, you try to fall back asleep. You've been driving since 
seven the evening before, and youre tired.
But you can't sleep; its too hot. The Georgia sun has been 
baking your flesh, basting you with your own sweat. No wonder 
the bugs were attracted. So you sit up behind your steering 
wheel and decide that a two hour nap was plenty. Road time is 
an entirely different dimension than regular time. You wonder 
what its like to be a truck driver.
Stepping out of the car, you simultaneously see the swamp 
water shimmer in the heat and smell the diesel trucks pulling 
out. You came here around ten this morning into the truck stop, 
and while you were trying to find a spot to park and snooze, you 
saw the half-hidden gravel road leading into trees, next to a 
swamp. The grass and trees seemed much more inviting than 
the unshaded pavement, so you drove your car past the "No 
Trespassing sign and parked in the grass, under the shade of 
cool trees.
The truck sounds are muted by the trees, the smell is the 
only connection you have to the rest of the world. To the road, 
which for the last couple of days has become your world. You 
remember why youre driving in the first place, down to Orlando 
which is where the telegram was sent from, but no, never mind. 
Stretch instead, feel the grass between your toes, open up the 
trunk and unzip your suitcase. It's time to take off your cold 
weather jeans and sweater and put on a airy dress. Even though 
you know youre alone, you duck behind the car as you change.
You have to pee, and though you could rough it and hit the 
bushes, you decide not to give the mosquitoes another, more 
tender opportunity to eat. Its safe to leave your car, the 
windows rolled down but the doors locked, and you follow the 
gravel road to the gas station and cheap motel that justify the 
truck stops existence. Or is it the other way around?
Walking along the gravel road, you enjoy the feel of your 
dress swishing against your calves. You feel a little sticky, a little 
sexy. Free. You feel like a sweet Georgia peach, and skip to the 
bend in the road. Eight now all that exists is the sun, your body, 
the greenness surrounding you. No road, no endless miles with 
lazy masturbation breaking up the monotony, no yellow slip of 
paper delicately crackling in your glove compartment.
You reach the parking lot outside the motel and cross it to 
the gas station. You had been carrying your shoes in your hand 
but now you put them on again. Twenty-five years old and you 
still remember what your mother said about the awful diseases 
you can catch in public restrooms. You push open the door and 
bells jingle. Do you have a bathroom , you ask. Over there, the 
man behind the counter says and points behind you. You thank 
him and brush up against a man standing closely behind you. 
Excuse me. No problem. You see his eyes dip down into the gap 
between your breasts, cotton stretched taut across them. Maybe 
you should have worn a bra.
The restroom is fairly clean but you still dont sit on the 
toilet seat. You run your face and wrists under the cold tap water, 
then dry off with three sheets of rough brown paper towels. 
Stepping back out into the gas station, you immediately notice; 
the peeking man is gone. You are relieved. Just buying gas, 
getting cheap thrills. You're glad you're not one of those women 
who get paranoid at the slightest provocation. Some of your f 
friends wouldnt even consider making a drive this long without 
another person along. Preferably male, too, and you smile 
condescendingly. You know how to take care of yourself. You 
know youll be making the return trip alone too. You'll be 
making a lot of trips alone.
A Dairy Queen is about a hundred yards to your right. You 
hadn't noticed it earlier. Subconsciously, though, you knew, 
that's why you picked this stop over the hundreds of others - 
dotting Highway 76. You order a soft serve cone, twist. You walk 
back to your car, licking around the edges of the cone to stop the 
drips and opening your mouth over the top, wanting to keep the 
peak the cream swirls up to. A red jalopy is in front of you; 
youve almost walked into it. Pay attention. Its beat up, clumps ; 
of southern mud dried on like concrete and dents so old yet so 
comfortable on the doors and rear end that they were built in. 
Optional dents, $500.
A big dog is sitting in the back, looking equally used. He

---------------------------------------------------

seems old and friendly, and even though you smile at him, you 
keep your distance. You never know with dogs. Your best friend 
in seventh grade had a scar across her upper lip from a playful" 
jumping up and biting her. The ice cream cone is finished; the 
last pieces are crunched between your teeth. As you step onto 
the gravel road again from the hot pavement, you look back to 
make sure no one is watching. You know youre not supposed to 
be parked back here.
The red jalopy catches your eye: the dog in the back and the 
man in the front, who you hadnt noticed before. The dog is 
sitting with his back to you, head turned to the side, sloppy pink 
tongue lolling from his mouth. The man is turned around 
backwards, and he is watching you. Your contacts always make 
your eyes dry out after you sleep in them, and things stay blurry 
for a while, but you know hes watching you. Theres nothing 
else there.
Youre not worried, though; you take your time walking 
back to your once white now gray Toyota with a growing rattle of 
broken exhaust pipes. Youre not intimidated.
But maybe you've had enough trees and grass and swamp 
and seclusion; time to hit the road again. You repack your 
suitcase, reorganize your trunk. You didnt bring much; you 
dont have much. When you slam the trunk closed, you get the 
tip of your finger caught, and you curse at yourself for being so 
careless.
Check the cooler in the back seat, see how much is ice and 
how much is water. Your chicken sandwiches, peeled carrots, 
cans of Mello Yello, cherry juice boxes, and peanut butter and 
raisin celery stalks look a little waterlogged. You are draining the 
water from the cooler when you see a man and a dog on a leash 
come around the bend in the gravel road.
You refuse to be scared; just remember that you are very 
alone. You keep your eyes on the stream of water draining but 
use your downward head to glance up enough to see him 
without him noticing. You hope he keeps going. Of course he 
doesnt. He is closer and you are suddenly more concerned with 
the dog's leash than the dog. It has a thick brown leather handle 
worn smooth and oily. The rest is a chain, heavy metal links 
shining into your eyes. Choke chain.
Hi there, he says, youre not supposed to be back here are 
you. You hear his accent, remember his jeep, and decide that 
northern feminist snootiness is a bad idea.
lust about ready to move out, you say. The cooler, incred
ibly, is still draining but you cant stop now before it's done, hell 
know you're scared. And you are.
Need a hand with anything. Maybe me and Jimbo can help.
Oh, Ive got it all taken care of. Nice dog.
Hes part black lab, part Doberman. I trained him myself. 
The cooler is trickling now. You tilt it further, trying to hurry it 
up. You realize that as you are bent over, your dress has lifted in
the back and dropped in the front but you cant put the cooler 
down. Nice day, he says.
Sure, you say. Don't avoid eye contact; dont let him think 
youre scared.
That looks might heavy, let me give you a hand. He reaches 
toward you and you reflexively jump back. That's okay you say 
quickly and even smile a little but it's too late. He knows and he 
smiles back slowly, pulls the chain inks of the leash into his 
hand until Jimbo has been dragged up next to him. He slips the 
chain over Jimbos head, releasing him.
No need to be so jumpy, just trying to help. He takes the 
cooler from your hands, turns it vertical and shakes. One drop 
and nothing more.
I can handle it, you say but you dont reach for the cooler. 
You walk around to the other side of the car, trying to keep 
distance. Ill finish up over here. If you could just put that back 
in the car, I'd appreciate it.
He does put it back in the car, shuts the door. He steps 
around to your side of the car, where you are busily rearranging 
nothing. My names Jim. You dont want to laugh; you wish Jim 
was as harmless as Jimbo who is sniffing bushes by the water.
You shut the door, hiding your trembling hands. He notices 
anyway. Diesel trucks sound in the distance, rumbling onto the 
road. No one could possibly hear you. Ill be going, you say, nice 
meeting you.
His hand is suddenly squeezing your arm. Oh my God I 
dont want to die. You always thought youd rather be killed than 
raped but you were a fool. You want to live but the big paw with 
brown half moon circles under the nails and deep lined crusty 
calluses gripping your winter skin doesnt care what you want. 
You cant look into his face and read your future there even 
though his eyes bum holes in your head.
A noise breaks the silence. You both look towards the 
source: another man, driving a tractor on the gravel road. Trash 
cans are dragged along with him; you hadnt noticed the 
dumpsters at the dead end of the road, further down from where 
you stopped. The man next to you, breathing foul air onto you, 
grips tighter, it hurts: nothing of pain to come.
He senses your impulse to yell or break free before you can 
act on it, pulls you up close to his body and it doesn't matter, 
you are already dead. You wait, the two of you together, watch 
for the garbage man to drive on by without noticing or to stop 
and ask questions.
You stand there, your body pressed against the aged workclothes with smears of dark brown, jeans and t-shirt with a 
USMC printed in the top left corner; the body with height and 
weight probably double your own; and the hand on your arm 
that will haunt your nightmares for years to come, and you wait 
for the tractor driving trash man to turn his head and notice.

---------------------------------------------------

Wings
in a unified movement,
finches are donating______
their little feathers 
to hair replacement clinics.
The scalp shine is deceiving. Eggs.
The birds try to sit on bare heads like nests. 
IVIen swat and run,
threaten to eat the brown angels._______
But there is nothing worse than rejection
Qnd finches would gladly have their wings sewn 
to men's heads if it stopped false alarms.
Now, moths had a similar idea.
The glare was a siren flood light.
But moths had nothing to give________
Since all they are is wings and maybe less.
They're fed up with bald men and babies.
Jeanne Bauer

---------------------------------------------------

JI&S*,.
41
' V4'  -Y , V .*
- . -V,* .-V.-, s-\r '
,: .v? :;
- \-jj? .v .;v?v.\-.-

>: :!
" AV.> '
 y / \ \ % ^ ! :. : \c >v
VC\ s77>-*^LL . f"v*i.v*.X .'  .:-?/ -&v; .
*
X. v- oc * '<> *  ;-N  -  -vr'V^ l
liMM .\r--/<-*  ->- .vi
--,y- ......... .. ---------------------------,, >. ;.*;#' y'*; 'i ?'*{':
HtM
7 BM a SS / y^SJ ;I>'S ;?  < * *> <'I%* I/ t y-yy i g' GtIaS ?>'t 7F ')yI '
>\II I* /S I G* * S *
IS  /Gork a \ C/>yI '"' G / A
xa*
\ :< '-<

---------------------------------------------------

Melinda stood 
over the 
counter slicing 
a tomato. She 
tried cutting 
the tomato 
from different 
sides but 
wasn't satisfied 
with the num
ber of angles 
she had used to 
destroy the 
fruit. She 
wasn't satisfied 
with the shapes 
of the tomato 
chunks either. 
Her experiment 
had only pro
duced a pile of 
red blobs. She 
was daydream
ing that she 
might discover 
a new way. a 
better way, a 
more beautiful 
way to cut to
matoes. She 
tried to imag
ine herself eas
ily slicing 
shapes much 
more exciting 
than stars and 
triangles. She 
wanted her to
mato chunks to 
look like bunny 
rabbits or con
tinents or even 
more exciting, 
profiles of 
American 
presidents! Af
ter all, presi
dential profiles 
would impress 
Gary, her boy
friend, or at 
least make him 
laugh. Either 
way he would 
appreciate the 
carved toma
toes not be
cause he was 
much of an his
torian but 
ratherbecause 
he was a 
painter. Gary's 
notoriety came 
from only 
painting on 
canvas 
stretched on 
frames in the
shape of presi
dential profiles.
Melinda began 
chopping a new 
tomato and 
started a new 
approach. She 
tried starting 
the knife from 
the bottomside of the to
mato. By this 
tomato though, 
she was sloppy. 
Or rather, she 
was much slop
pier than she 
had been. She 
knew that hold
ing the blade 
towards her left 
hand holding a 
wedge of to
mato she would 
cut her hand 
and she did. 
She skinned 
the inside-side 
of her thumb. 
At first though, 
she thought 
that she had 
skinned her 
palm as well. 
Black blood 
covered her 
hand and kept 
her from seeing 
where she had 
been cut.
All along, she 
was surprised 
she was not in 
pain. She
thought that 
she had forgot
ten to be in 
pain. By the 
time she actu
ally cut herself, 
she was al
ready hying to 
figure out .ow 
she would ex
plain cutting 
herself to Gaiy. 
She felt silly 
making dinner 
for him at all, 
much less how 
silly she felt for 
clumsily and 
even stupidly 
wounding her
self. After all, 
he always 
made dinner
for her. She 
knew nothing 
about cooking 
except for what 
she had 
learned from 
occasionally 
helping Gary 
and he would 
give continu
ous instruc
tions on how to 
chop or seed or 
heat this or 
that. ButGaiy 
was taking a 
nap, catching 
up on sleep he 
had missed 
working on new 
paintings late 
into the night 
for days. Cer
tainly, she 
didn't just 
make dinner 
because she 
was hungry or 
expecting he 
would be hun
gry. She 
thought she 
could be nice to 
Gary, perhaps 
to compensate 
for her chronic 
grumpiness. 
She definitely 
thought Gary 
was too good to 
her. Hisshowing-all-histeeth-even-inhis-sleep smile 
made her feel 
guilty for her 
haphazard half 
grin and pouti n g
She washed 
her hand, 
wrapped it in 
paper towels 
and held it 
above her head. 
She tried fin
ishing the rest 
of dinner one 
handed, refus
ingher impulse 
to wake Gary 
and have him 
complete din
ner. She didnt 
want her night
mares to come 
true. Once a 
week, she
would dream 
that he would 
finish a project 
for her. That 
morning she 
woke having 
dreamt that 
she decided to 
build a castle 
for him. When 
she went to the 
hardware store 
to buy the 
marble stones 
and plumbing, 
she forgot her 
list and only 
bought blue 
Venetian 
blinds. Gary 
saw the blinds 
and knewwhat 
she had tried to 
do. The next 
day, he had 
built the castle 
and skipped 
town. Gary 
leaves her at 
the end of each 
nightmare and 
each time she 
wakes up sure 
that her dream 
came true.
These dreams, 
though, 
shouldn't make 
any sense to 
her. He tells 
her he loves her 
and that he 
daydreams 
about her. But 
more impor
tantly, he 
makes up 
songs about 
her ugliest 
parts as if they 
were miracu
lous inven
tions. The 
corns of her feet 
are the cho
ruses of bal
lads. The
mushy mole on 
her back
rhymes with 
I'm so in love, 
I'm having a 
heart attack! 
in a rap. She 
has had so 
many night
mares that she 
is sure Gary
will leave her 
one day.
Since Melinda 
didn't panic 
over her hand, 
she opted to 
panic over ajar 
of artichoke 
hearts she 
couldn't open. 
The oily jar slid 
in her armpit 
grip and her 
good hand 
slipped around 
the lid. As if 
she had forgot
ten the out
come of her 
nightmares, 
she woke Gary 
to help her.
Gary, Gary," 
Melinda whis
pered to him. I 
didn't mean to 
wake you but I 
figured I should 
give you a 
minute to get 
ready for din
ner. When his 
eyes opened, 
she handed 
him the jar. 
She didn't wait 
for him to sit 
up on the bed. 
Can you open 
this for me? 
The jar is wet 
oroilyorsomething."
Oh, dinner's 
ready. That's 
great. He 
opened the jar. 
You made dinn e r ? 
She laughed, 
Don't be so 
surprised!  
She was stand
ing in front of 
him, holding 
her handi
capped hand at 
her hip where 
she thought he 
might notice it. 
She held the 
paper towel 
around her 
hand so that 
the gory stain
faced him.
What are you 
just standing 
there for? Lean 
down here and 
kiss me." Gary 
tried to grab 
her hands to 
pull her to
wards him.
Ow, ow, be 
careful! She 
waited for Gary 
to give her sym
pathy. Shehad 
waited long 
enoughtoshow 
him her 
wound.
"What's 
wrong? Gary 
looked her 
over.
My hand. I cut 
it when I was 
cutting toma
toes." She held 
out her hand 
and he in
spected her 
hand, softlyrotating it.
You o.k.?"
Sure, it didnt 
hurt. I mean it 
just feels 
bruised. I 
thought I had 
cut my whole 
hand."
You should 
put a Band-Aid 
on that. He 
was still hold
ing her ailing 
hand.
Melinda took 
her hand back, 
tucked it next 
to her as if it 
were her wing. 
Oh no, I hate 
Band-Aids. 
They smell 
weird. I'll be 
o.k. It could 
have been a lot 
worse  that 
blade was ser
rated and 
sharp. I could

---------------------------------------------------

have lost my 
thumb."
But you're
o.k., right? 
Gary smiled.
Yes."
Then smooch 
me! She gave 
him a kiss even 
though she 
wanted to talk 
about her 
hand. Herpoor 
hand. I was 
dreaming 
about you, 
Melinda.
Perhaps that 1 
was missing a 
thumb?
No way. I 
dreamt we were 
cotton balls. 
Two cotton 
balls in a plas
tic bag. And I 
remember 
thinking that I 
wouldn't want 
to be a Q-tip or 
a toothpick for 
anything. 
A plastic bag? 
You think Im 
suffocating 
you, dont 
you?" Melinda 
looked at her 
wrapped hand.
Ohno. The air 
in the bag 
smelled like 
garlic. I think I 
was salivating."
Im sure you 
just smelled 
the garlic and 
onions from the 
kitchen. I had 
to cut them us
ing one hand. 
I'm surprised 
that I even fin
ished putting 
together din
ner. She was 
still looking at 
her hand.
Give me a 
minute. I'll set
the table and 
help set out the 
food, o.k.?
Melinda 
watched Gary 
roll off the bed 
to the floor. He 
was wearing 
red soccer 
shorts. On the 
ground, he 
reached for his 
favorite sweatband and legwarmers 
tucked in his 
tennis shoes. 
He dressed on 
the mg then 
stood up to say, 
I'm ready. 
Let's eat!"
Gaiy walked as 
if his legs were 
scissors right 
into the 
kitchen. Before 
Melinda had 
made it back to 
the kitchen, he 
had already set 
out the plates 
and forks. He 
was pouring 
grapejuice for 
himself and 
water for 
Melinda. 
Melinda used 
her good hand 
to carry the 
casserole dish 
to the table.
What did you 
make?" Gary 
asked.
Potato salad, 
potato and leek 
casserole, and 
pasta salad. 
Melinda added 
the artichokes 
to her pasta 
salad.
Potatoes and 
pasta  deli
cious!" Gaiy 
looked over the 
food. The po
tato salad looks 
very creamy. 
Can you put 
some on my 
plate?
Melinda lifted a 
spoonful of po
tato salad on 
his plate. He 
took one bite 
and another 
then he started 
to spread the 
salad over his 
plate. 
Melinda, this 
is mayonnaise. 
There are no 
potatoes in the 
potato salad.
I know. I ran 
out of potatoes 
after making 
the casserole." 
Melinda 
thought she 
had two 
chances left  
the casserole 
and the pasta 
salad. Try 
some of the 
casserole." She 
sliced and 
served two 
brick shaped 
pieces for each 
of them.
Melinda. 
Please don't 
take this
wrong, but did 
you bake the 
casserole? 
These potatoes 
are raw. Were 
you supposed 
to bake it?
Melinda went 
over to the 
cookbook. 
Bakeat400'for 
an hour.
"Don't worry 
about it. The 
pasta salad's 
good.
No it isn't. I 
used spaghetti 
instead of those 
curly noodles 
or the shells.
It's good anyway.
And all the 
noodles stuck 
together.
Melinda sat 
down. She 
didn't think 
that dinner 
would be such 
a disaster. "Let 
me try again.
O.k.
Are you sure 
you can wait 
another hour to 
eat?"
Listen, why 
dontyouletme 
help you?" Gaiy 
started cleaning 
up the dishes.
No. I want to 
do it by myself. 
You do every
thing around 
here and I want 
to do some 
stuffl Melinda 
voice got higher. 
She was getting 
angry.
Gary stayed 
calm. I just 
wanted to help 
you out. You 
dont want to try 
making dinner 
again with your 
hand hurt like 
it is. Why dont 
you try tomor
row or in a 
couple of days?"
No.no. You al
ways make din
ner for me and 
you do all the 
chores! You do 
everything for 
me. Let me just 
do this! 
Melinda 
screamed.
Make dinner 
then." Gary was 
still calm. Ill 
go paint." As he 
was leaving the 
room, he added, 
I don't know 
why youre so 
mad at me.
Melinda stayed 
in the kitchen 
for not just an
hourbuthours 
staring at cook
books and cutout recipes 
from maga
zines. She was 
sure she would 
fail at making 
every recipe 
she looked at: 
trout 
amandine, 
chicken 
m a r s a 1 a , 
cornbread, 
even mac and 
cheese. She 
thought about 
asking Gary to 
make dinner. 
She also
thought about 
ordering food or 
going out to eat 
She felt foolish 
for getting so 
angry. And 
then she felt 
her hand.
Gary, she 
walked into his 
studio. He was 
standing in 
front of a paint
ing of her 
knees, rockets 
were flying out 
ofthelmeepits. 
From seeing 
pennies, she 
recognized Lin
coln as the 
shape of the 
canvas. Im 
not going to be 
able to make 
dinner tonight."
That'so.k. He 
was still wear
ing a headband 
and leg-warme r s
My hands 
been hurting. 
I'm sorry for 
yelling at you." 
She held her 
hurt hand, 
which didnt 
hurtatall.with 
her good hand. 
I think I got a 
little excited 
overcuttingmy 
hand."
Does it still 
hurt?" Gary 
asked.
Yeah. I just 
didn't want to 
say anything. I 
didn't want you 
to worry about 
me or take care 
of me.
Gary smiled. 
Then come 
with me to the 
kitchen and Ill 
make burritos. 
I've been crav
ing burritos all 
night. And I'll 
wrap up your 
hand the right 
way." Gary 
grabbed 
Melinda's good 
hand and pulled 
her with him 
into the kitchen.
In minutes, 
Melinda had a 
Band-Aid 
around her 
thumb and din
ner was being 
started again. 
Youdon'tmind 
making dinner 
so late, do you?" 
Melinda asked. 
She was happy 
to see Gary bus
tling around the 
kitchen. She 
didn't even com
plain about the 
smell of the 
Band-Aid.
No way. I love 
making dinner 
for you. When
ever. Don't you 
know I love 
you? Gary tied 
on his roller 
skates and 
rolled from 
counter to re
frigerator to 
stove in figure 
eights. He blew 
kisses at her 
from around the 
room. Melinda 
was sure that 
this is how din
ner should be 
made.

---------------------------------------------------

z:e
I

ia
u
ftt
<ly dod peed
m u'b/fcKporeb 
b^fcr V* we&i SjecP
rm ar&uqfi j * 
piKmTh^r ^\#ju '
Ieep 'yeY^vw in ihf *
he
 &HS
H$\afpt4+Vi 9r&V*,
HfWift ^Aifiden 
uvv-i.eK V'?.
Vw+
-Clppe^
'H\fv ; : CH V\ftW*  h lf< f f 
4h aif*  VMfv\ li^Mhn^i

---------------------------------------------------

Grub
Do Not Place 
Head Outside 
Window

---------------------------------------------------

professional?
NETWORKING
Why are you
extra
Why not follow
 to serve?Do^smhave anything to ^ 
 Listenlto your client!
ff>^"<r.,.fessional th
wr, (j i v e them what ,-------,
Wantanonymous
Where going?
You know what is best forThcTVl
BEING A MIDDLEMAN IS
NOTHING TO BE ASHAMED OF!
design do-gooders
HELP PEOPLE
Bo aware of what i:
111AY 111 : * : I Kl : a : 11 11 BY
Jim gives you
m
permission?
How do you know it's
We need someone who knows Pagemaker
graphic.Learn the ' 1 idevices that
 communicate
_______d e s i g n
Design will always pay tho bills!
is a skill!NetworkingBuild your rsum!
What is'design?MOg!
someoneteam
s s / e dDESIGN
Ask questions later!
dossier
DEPIGN 0 LIrERARY RAG
FIN.

---------------------------------------------------

 TITTGT/M
IDnDDHSODDDL1V11U
GOODBYE

SKI
DieDfMttmriIBO!
Razing of original Skibo remembered
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Acting Features Editor
The new Skibo will answer a need long felt on the Carnegie 
Tech Campus; one building in which all student activities can 
be conducted. It will serve more than 3,400 full time and 
almost 2,000 part time students, in addition to the faculty and 
staff.
Welcome to December 1960. The new student activities 
center will finally open, answering the need for long-awaited 
space for student organizations and activities. The highlight 
of Skibo is the Ballroom on the first floor. Accommodating 400 
couples, the Ballroom can be used for banquets, dances, plays, 
and movies.
Also on the first floor is a lounge, a snack bar for refresh
ments, and an all-purpose room called the Wherrett Room. 
The Wherrett Room can accommodate about 200 people for 
dinner, dances, and other social activities.
The ground floor contains eagerly awaited offices for stu
dent organizations, dressing rooms and showers for commut
ers, and the Bureau of Placement (later renamed the Career 
Center).
But we know all this. We have used Skibo sometime, 
whether it was for an organizational meeting or an AB event 
or dinner. But very little people know about Skibos long, 
interesting history.
From Scotland to Pittsburgh
Skibo was named after our Universitys founder Andrew 
Carnegies 19,448-acre summer estate in the Scottish High
lands. However, the influence of the Skibo castle did not 
appear with the first administration of the then Carnegie 
Technical Schools. In fact, Skibo was first introduced by 
students in the mid- 1910s.
Two architecture students from the Class of 1917, William 
Armstrong and John Kilbum, needed money to finance their 
class. They were entrepreneurs; they knew that the new male 
dormitories in 1915, Boss and McGill Halls, would produce a 
demand for midnight snacks and refreshments.
With their own hands, they built a 20' x 20' booth that was 
soon afterward called the Skibo Inn. The Skibo Inn offered 
sandwiches and coffee and maybe an occasional delicacy such 
as a hot dog. Soon afterward, the Skibo Inn expanded with a 
sales crew, patios on each side, and even private ownership of 
the land the refreshment stand sat on.
Carnegie Techs administration, after many unsuccessful 
attempts, obtained the title to the Skibo Inn in 1942, after
Please see SKIBO, page L2
rkua a\muhCd Tbmaa uhauThum nh \kC Ema\ audC nc Pgubn 
wma dCyCbndCd mhd :mdC bD TBmdkuc dCauThCB mhd 
dBncCaanB ABhnbd Bmhgt
Pcn\bmhd YmBdM \kC hnhSmbcnknbuc a\edCh\ debM ndChCd 
uh NnyC:bCB Gl85 uh wkm\ eaCd \n bC \kC Tm:C Bnn:t 
Pcn\bmhd YmBda ce\eBCM ehcnB\ehm\CbDM ua ehghnwht
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor
rkC cbnBmb mBBmhTC:Ch\ uh cBnh\ nc Pgubn kma bCCh :muh\muhCd cnB \kC bma\ 
.0 DCmBat rkC DuhuhT OccucC mhd aCyCBmb a\edCh\ nBTmhuzm\unhaM aeck ma 
Pcn\ck h Pndm mhd Abdkm iku O:CTmM cmcC \kC dmBguhT bn\t
rkua :mD bC \kC bma\ mCBumb yuCw nc Pgubn bCcnBC u\a dCa\Bec\unht Pgubn mhd u\a dmBguhT bn\ wubb bC dC:nbuakCd cnB cnha\Bec\unh nc \kC hCw UhuyCBau\D CCh\CBt rkua DCmB :mBgCd \kC 
bma\ PdBuhT CmBhuymb uh \kC Pgubn imBguhT Ln\  hn\ucC \kC rCh\ uh cBnh\ nc Pgubnt NCs\ DCmBM PdBuhT CmBhuymb wubb bC kCbd uh dmB\ nc \kC MnBCwnnd GmBdCha dmBguhT bn\t

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon * 25 April 1994
d/e Iasi pick up-safe s coflee
Revive with VIVARIN
Uso only as directed. Contains caffeine equivalent to 2 cups of coffee.1993 SmrthKllne Beecham.\\Y
Skfbos past remembered
History of Skibo reflects demands for student space
SKIBO, from page LI
which it was used as a barber 
shop, laundromat, and dry clean
ing agency for soldiers.
Skibo Inn was destroyed in 
1945, but Presi
dent Robert 
Doherty soon af
terward renamed 
the Langley Labo
ratory simply 
Skibo. The Lan
gley Laboratory of 
Aeronautics, lo
cated where Hunt 
Library now 
stands, was built 
in 1918 to furnish 
airplane mechan
ics for military ser
vice.
After the war, 
the Langley Labo
ratory housed the 
mens cafeteria as 
well as other vari
ous functions, such 
as a gymnasium, 
lecture hall, art studio, ROTC 
arsenal, dance hall, and theater.
In the meantime, student orga
nizations found office space at 
the renovated Schiller residence 
at 5075 Forbes Avenue, in re
sponse to a student outcry for a 
new student union. Doherty origi
nally planned to renovate the 
existing gymnasium and build a 
new one, but World War II pre
vented that effort. Schiller House 
remained as the 
student union 
until 1960.
Students 
Celebrate the 
Demise of 
Skibo was the 
front-page 
headline of The 
Carnegie Tar
tan on Novem
ber 4, 1959. As 
many as 1500 
students 
turned out for a 
big farewell 
party to make 
way for the new 
Hunt Library as 
the Skibo as we 
know it today
Todays Skibo 
from Yesterday
Not soon after Skibo was open,
14 architecture students provided
in Skibo was renovated with 
$40,000, and 16 organizations 
received new or expanded office 
space.
In April 1975, a proposal was 
recommended to 
renovate Skibo and 
turn the Tartan 
Grill (then located 
in the now Tartan 
Lounge) into a 500- 
seat movie theater. 
Obviously, that
financial difficulties in raising the 
$41 million complex. The Uni
versity Center is intended to be
come the center of campus life 
outside the classroom  inte
grating meeting, dining, social, 
and recreational activities. The 
Center will house student orga
nizations, dining areas, meeting 
rooms, offices, a new multi-pur
pose gymnasium, a 50-meter 
swimming pool, an 1/8 mile track, 
an exercise room, and squash and
proposal failed, but racquetball courts.
Jim onyuer/ laiidii rnuiu cunur
The basement of Skibo contains the power supply and generator. 
So much power is generated that you can feel the floor shake.
another proposal to 
move the art sec
tion of the book
store into Skibo 
and expand En
tropy was imple
mented the follow
ing year. Entropy 
had opened in late 
1974.
In 1976, the 
Highlander Room, 
the room next to the 
Wherrett Room
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor 
AB Tech personnel leave their 
mark In the elevator between 
the ground and first floors.
their comments on the structure 
of Skibo. In a letter printed in 
The Carnegie Tartan, January 
18,1961, they said that the new 
Skibo is a bad building. It is 
badly sited, badly oriented, badly 
planned, and badly detailed. 
After Skibo was completed, 
Scaife Hall, Warner Hall, and 
Mudge B-Tower soon followed. 
Skibo, which was being used for 
non-student purposes, quickly 
outgrew its func
tion, and required 
an additional 
100,000 square 
feet. The planning 
never got beyond 
the preliminary 
stage.
The original 
plan for Skibo 
placed the Bureau 
of Placements 
where the Art 
Store and Cater
ing is today. The 
Bureau of Place
ments was respon
sible with helping 
students prepare 
resumes and inter
views with perIn 1992, the Graduate Student 
Organization acquired the former 
Staff Dining Room next to the 
Kiltie Court to open a studentrun coffeehouse, later named The 
Tilted Square. The coffeehouse is 
known for its variety of 
cappuchino and coffee.
Finally, after a three-year de
lay, construction for the Univer
sity Center begins this summer. 
Currently, student organizations 
are moving to the Student Cen
ter, formally the Naval Reserve
that stored the pinball games and Center (NRC). 
recreational equipment, would be The University Center has been
turned into a lounge with a stage, deemed the biggest improvement 
The games were moved to the to CMU. The University Center 
Tartan Grill. is expected to be completed in the
In 1985, plans were underway fall of 1996.
Freshman H&SS student Michele Mellott greets customers with a 
smile at Entropy, Sklbos convenience store.
was started on a level site east of spective employers. Student orthe Cut.
Skibo added 93,000 square feet 
of space and cost just over three 
million dollars. It was completed 
late in 1960; dedication ceremo
nies took place on November 22. 
The long felt need for more space 
for student activities was no more. 
Skibo opened January 4, 1961, 
for 5,400 students.
ganizations and activities needed 
more space, and Student Senate 
passed a resolution to get Place
ments out of Skibo. Placements 
needed additional space anyway 
to provide a greater resource for 
career counseling and planning, 
so in January 1973, Placements 
moved to the basement ofWamer 
Hall and later became the Career 
Center. The newly-opened area
for an innovative campus pub to 
be located either in the High
lander Room or at a CMU owned 
house behind Kappa Sigma fra
ternity  the Bramer House. 
Scotland Yard announced its 
grand opening in the Highlander 
Room onNovemberl6,1985. Stu
dents sampled non-alcoholic 
drinks and platters from Scot
land Yards menu. The decor fea
tured two massive gazebos for 
booth seating, mood lighting, and 
a number of historical photo
graphs and memorabilia.
The year 1990 promised the 
construction of a new University 
Center, but it faced consistent
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St. 
(off S. Craig In Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
Ceb\ CsdCB\ adngC nh Wmcn uhcudCh\
By BETHANY SUTTON
Tartan Staffwriter
Do you believe someone you know or love is involved in a dangerous 
cult? According to Richard Ross, deprogrammer and nationally 
recognized expert on cults, who spoke Monday evening at the 
university, the chances that you do are greater than youd expect. 
Cults have been around since the beginning of time, maintained 
Ross, as institutions in which people are put under some sort of 
mind-control, and are increasing in size and number every day; 
many today are tired of too many choices with an ambiguous 
solution. In turn, they join a cult, giving up their ability to critically 
think as they become highly dependent on their leader to think for 
them.
If you think it could never happen to you, think again. Ross cited 
examples from the Marine Corps to Weight Watchers  programs 
which attempt, in varying degrees, to control the bodies, minds, and 
actions of its members. He made a clear distinction, however, 
between groups who are benign and those who are dangerous and 
exploit their members.
Ross works mainly with Bible-based groups whose leaders have 
manipulated the Bible to fulfill their own selfish desires for power 
and control. Its a big business, said Ross. He also emphasized his 
conviction that he deals with people hurting people, not God [or 
religion] hurting people. These people are deceptively recruited; 
they are hit hard at their lowest point of vulnerability and never 
clearly understand exactly what they are getting into. I dont know 
whats a bigger violation of peoples civil rights than to be brain
washed, said Ross.
Ross began his lecture Monday, entitled Armed and Dangerous, 
with several news clips featuring his involvement in the wellpublicized crisis at the Branch Davidian compound in Waco, Texas. 
Called in by the FBI as a special expert on cults, Ross involvement 
with the sect began as early as 1988, when he was involved in 
deprogramming two Branch Davidians in conflict with another 
Davidian sect. He maintains he repeatedly warned the FBI of their 
aggressive stand  a stand which allowed David Koresh to gather 
his followers about him and his beliefs more tightly. He also criti
cized the Bureaus refusal to let families talk personally with loved 
ones inside the compound, and the gross misuse of loudspeakers to 
frighten Koresh into coming out or giving up. The issue was control 
and power, says Ross, the loss of which Koresh feared above all else.
Please see CULTS, page L3
Software Engineers
Join our experienced and successful Ami Pro software 
development team at Lotus Word Processing Division in 
beautiful Atlanta for hard-core development of the next 
generation of Ami Pro, our top-rated award-winning word 
processor for Microsoft Windows, Motif, OS/2 PM, and new 
environments. Learn cross-platform OOD in C++.
Recent Graduate Positions Require
 May, June, or September 1994 graduate, BS in computer 
science, solid grades 
 US citizen or permanent resident 
B Strong interest in a software development career 
 Excellent verbal communication skills 
<* Strong work ethic and the ability to work with a team 
 Successful course work in compilers, operating systems, 
graphics, languages, C, C++ very helpful 
Benefits
Include 2 weeks vacation to start, 3 weeks vacation after first 
year, 12 holidays, stock purchase, retirement and 
profit-sharing, medical, dental, vision, disability, profit sharing, 
401 (k) with matching, and a stimulating, focused small-group 
environment with big-company industry leadership, no 
bureaucracy, and lots of opportunity for initiative.
Write Today 
R&D Manager,
Department C494 
Lotus Word Processing 
Division Suite 1700 
1000 Abernathy Road 
Atlanta GA 30328.
An equal opportunity employer.Lotus,
The Tartan Lounge 
was originally the 
Snack Bar, selling 
refreshments. The 
Snack Bar was 
later converted to 
the Tartan Grill, 
and even later, a 
gaming room.
Jim snyaer/iarxan moto tailor
PITTSBURGH 
HARRISBURG PHILADELPHIA 
NEW YORK CITY
TORONTO. CANADA
BUFFALO. NY fo- _ ROCHESTER. NY^SYRACUSE. NY
CORTLAND. NYCORNING. NY
BINGHAMTON, NY NEWENGLANDELMIRA. NY
TOWANDA
'JEW YORK
WILKESBARREiWILLIAMSPORT
5UNBURYOPOTTSVILLE HERSHEY y 
HARRISBURG
ALLENTOWN  WILLOW GROVE
^-'LANCASTER 
BALTIMORE. MD
WASHINGTON. DC 
TO ALL POINTS SOUTH
'HILADELPHIA KING OF PRUSSIA
1-800-444-2877
Looks like a Vivarin night.
It's 10 PM. You've crammed for finals 
all week. Took two today. And 
now you've got to pack an entire 
semester's worth of Philosophy into 
one take-home exam, in one night. 
But how do you stay awake when 
you're totally wiped? Revive 
with Vivarin. Safe as coffee, 
Vivarin helps keep you awake 
and mentally alert for hours.
So when you ha.ve pen in 
hand, but sleep on the brain, 
make it a Vivarin night!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 April 1994L3
Oakland shopping 
causes headaches
Horror Stories
by Tom Harper
Sometimes I think about just how amazing the 
most mundane parts of my life turn out sometimes
 especially when something that isnt mundane 
at all encourages a normally mundane act. It was 
really amazing a couple weeks ago when I got very 
sick over the weekend being out in the field with 
ROTC. It ended up being a lung infection.
When I got home and got a half-decent rest my 
number one priority was to get two prescriptions 
filled and get some other stuff, like Kleenex, chicken 
noodle soup, and things like that. My mom gave me 
advice over the phone  Drink plenty of liquids
general vicinity of what they want. This, of course, 
blocks offmostof the aisle and you have to squeeze 
around their frickin cart. If you so much as nudge 
the cart the tiniest bit, their sixth sense takes over 
and theyll almost get whiplash turning around 
and giving you such a mean look. And theyre not 
about to move themselves or the cart either until 
they read the entire ingredients list, net weight, 
nutritional facts, and things like that. Then they 
walk ever so slowly the nine inches between them 
and the cart, put the thing in, and start moving 
again.
I pushed one of those peoples carts out of the way 
because I was overloaded with pizza and chicken 
noodle soup (hot foods!) and a gallon of chocolate 
milk (plenty of liquids!). She came so close to 
screaming bloody murder, it was so hilarious to 
look at.
Then I got to the Express line. Note that Ex
press is in quotes, for a very important reason. 
The only thing going fast in this lane was the 
cashiers mouth, constantly threatening to walk 
off. And I swear she distrusted this newfangled 
scanner technology. There I was, getting a very 
good isometric workout holding all this pizza, soup, 
Kleenex, chocolate milk, and the Weekly Worldand Eat lots of hot food. With these words in my 
head along with the ringing in my ears, I set off News while all the cashier could do is bitch. When 
down Forbes Avenue to get my prescriptions filled she finally was done checking out this persons
Then I got to the Express line.... 
The only thing going fast in this 
lane was the cashier's mouth, con
stantly threatening to walk off.
and procure the 
necessary goodies.
Aside from al
most tripping over 
those uneven sec
tions in the side
walk, the walk to 
Thrift Drug was a
little uneventful __________________________
unless you count 
the headache that
spontaneously formed and the fact that my being 
out there was not recommended at all. I passed the
0 and a lot of other places before ducking into 
Thrift Drug.
I went in and found the pharmacy. I presented 
my prescriptions and my American Express card 
(which they were more than happy to accept, 
somethings gotta be up there). It was a 20 minute 
wait to get the prescriptions filled. So I sat down 
and pondered getting a Super Soaker pen but with 
my limited cash flow, which was reserved for 
Campbells soup and things like that, I decided 
against it. (And I couldve used that during the last 
physics test, too! But Dr. Widom wouldnt take too 
kindly to getting sprayed over problem #3.)
After getting my medicine I headed over to the 
nearby Giant Eagle. I thought I wouldnt be getting 
that much, so I bypassed the carts and blindingly 
orange baskets.
While there I must have inconvenienced about 
10 people who acted as if they owned the damn 
place  you ever see them? When they see some
thing they need, theyll leave their cart right in the 
middle of the aisle and theyll turn it toward the
ENGINEERING STUDENTS
Will you be in Pittsburgh this summer?
Are you interested in taking courses?
Then you should consider the
School of Engineering 
at the University of Pittsburgh.
Pitt is offering a number of ABET accredited courses, 
taught by full-time faculty, 
beginning May 9 through August 15, 1994.
For information please contact:
Chemical Engineering: Robert Enick, 624-9649 
Civil Engineering: Attila Sooky, 624-9869 
Electrical Engineering: Ronald Hoelzeman, 624-9676 
Industrial Engineering: Jayant Rajgopal, 624-9840 
Materials Science: Henry Andrejasik, 624-9723 
Mechanical Engineering: Gene Geiger, 624-9796 
Freshman Program Director: Sandra Bishop, 624-9825
or write:
Summer Courses, Associate Dean's Office, 323 Benedum Hall, School of Engineering. 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh. PA 15261 
FAX: (412) 624-1108
Register now through May 9,1994
University of Pittsburgh
CULTS, from page L2
The horrible culmination of events, however, 
ultimately was the decision of Koresh, he went 
on to say.
How can you tell if you or someone you love is 
involved in a dangerous cult? Ross cited a land
mark book on thought reform by R. J. Lifton, and 
the eight criteria or determining characteristics 
of cults which he outlined: milieu control, in 
which the environment, access to information, 
and associations of members are strictly con
trolled; mystical manipulation, during which the 
seemingly spontaneous faith healing of leaders 
is pre-planned; the demand! for purity; confes
sion, during which members :are required to tell
everything about their personal life; the idea that 
the cult is a sacred science and non-believers 
are fools to be ridiculed or made fun of; the process 
of loading the language with thought-terminat
ing clichs; the importance of doctrine over per
son; and, finally, the dispensing of existence, 
dringwhichnn-believersbecomenon-persons. 
Ross added one more characteristic to this list  
the idea of phobic indoctrination, which instills 
the fear in its members that if they leave the cult, 
they will die, their families and lives will be 
destroyed, and their souls will be subject to eter
nal damnation. In citing these 'characteristics, 
Ross maintained that the strong presence of even 
a few is reason to suspect the activities of a cult.
Columnist corrects 
English stereotypes
items, it suddenly 
occurred to this 
lady three places 
in line in front of 
me that she had 
to pay for it! So 
she started dig
ging in through 
her purse. MeanHMBWgiBWBBMWBBMBMMBI while, my arms 
are almost giving 
out due to the gravitational pull of all these goodies 
Im holding, and then she gets out her checkbook. 
And no other lines were open for the next five 
minuteswhen one finally did open I came really 
close to collapsing from my headache and the 
relentless pull of gravity.
So I was out of that place and started heading 
back up Forbes to campus. I had to stop at 
McDonalds so I could eat lunch, set all my stuff 
down, and recover from the slight nausea that had 
set in. I had two Big Macs (relatively hot) and a 
large Coke (plenty of liquid). I wouldve fallen 
asleep in there but I had to get back before Id have 
to be quarantined.
And so, when I finally reached my room, I put all 
my stuff away and slept for about two straight 
days. If only the damned microwave in the Donner 
basement wouldve gotten fixed, I couldve gone 
back to classes earlier and not be as deep in make 
up work as I am now.
Tom Harper, often unseenphysics /computer sci
ence major, will still welcome any get well messages 
at th2n.
Alien in Residence
by Micki Kochanskyj
I cant believe there is only one 
week left of my undergraduate 
career. It came as quite a shock
 Id been buried in work to the 
extent that not only did I have no 
clue as to the actual date, but I 
was even vague about the actual 
decade I was in. Those 20-hour 
days really sock it to you. That 
caffeine-only diet worked won
ders too  I stepped onto the 
scales in Skibo yesterday to find 
Ive lost 10 pounds.
This is the answer to the Fresh
man Fifteen, folks  what you 
gain at the outset of this monu
mental journey, you lose in the 
race to the finish. And it is a race 
to the finish  the urgency of 
completingfinal papers, when you 
know theyre the last ones youll 
ever have to write, is acute.
Not quite as acute as hanging 
out with your friends, however. 
Papers only become acute when 
youve spent all evening engag
ing in all the activities you are 
going to miss once youve gradu
ated. Entering the real world is a 
scary thing. Having to wear ap
propriate clothing to interviews 
is alarming. Looking in the mir
ror, I dont recognize myself. I 
look like an adult. Ill be teaching 
next semester  I have become
the enemy. How depressing.
You have probably realized by 
now that this column has no spe
cific point. You may be forgiven 
for coming to this conclusion. It is 
a perfectly valid one given the 
lack of substance I have provided 
you with so far. However; this is 
my point exactlyyou see, writ
ing anything at this juncture of 
ones final year is going to be a 
struggle. Why, in the space of a 
whopping three paragraphs, I 
have gone outside to play Frisbee 
twice, popped up to Squirrel Hill 
for lunch, and discussed the finer 
points of a movie I have never 
seen but would like to see in the 
near future. Lets face it; my con
centration is shot.
So if your senior friends have 
been acting strange latelystar
ing off into the distance during 
conversation, laughing out loud 
for no particular reason, or even 
forgetting their names  dont 
worry. Theyve got other things 
on their minds, such as loan pay
ments and jobs and moving back 
home (aaargh!!).
I, myself, have become quite 
shameless in my pursuit of sum
mer employment. Normally shy 
about these things, I now have no 
trouble approaching important 
people at functions and begging 
for a job. I figure they appreciate 
enthusiasm as a compensatory 
quality.
At least, I hope so. What I ought 
to do, seeing as this is my last 
column for The Tartan, is clear 
up some of those stubborn cul
tural stereotypes I havent tack
led to date. OK. The Royal Fam
ily consists of a Queen and her
husband, the Duke of 
Edinborough, whos not a King. 
Only Kings can have Queens, not 
vice-versa. Not that hes from 
Edinborough, hes actually a 
Greek Prince. The Queen Mother 
is the person who used to be Queen 
before her husband, the King, 
died. Prince Charles is the Prince 
of Wales, not that hes actually 
from Wales, which is, in fact, a 
separate country from England 
but still a part of Great Britain. 
His brother is the Duke of York, 
even though hes not actually from 
York. You get the idea.
Yes, English people drink tea 
all the time. No, I dont like tea. 
Yes, it rains in England fre
quently. No, everyone does not 
wear bowler hats and carry walk
ing sticks. We cant understand 
Liverpudlian accents either. Only 
Americans ever go to Ireland. En
glish people get sunburned really 
easily. Understanding the rules 
of cricket is a genetic phenom
enon. Yes, we still have a daily 
newspaper that features a top
less woman on page three.
I think that just about ties it 
up. I think its about time I got on 
with some of that acute home
work I mentioned earlier. Or 
maybe Ill just go out for one more 
round of Frisbee ... heck, 
summers nearly upon us, and 
Ive nothing better to do.
Micki Kochanskyj, senior 
staffwriter and creative writing 
major, is pleased to announce that 
when she teaches freshmen at Pitt 
next semester, she plans to do so 
in a sweatshirt with CMU writ
ten on it really, really big.
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Sunday
T

---------------------------------------------------

THE HISAcVENTVftK OFCMU;
FINALLY
HEWze/'l-A^D.
BY RAMPEY ON0S OuLAur  AiRIL IPlM
"That's really funny. Ha ha ha ha. That's really 
really funny. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. I mean, 
that's really really funny. Ha ha ha ha. Hey, read 
this, it's really funny. Ha ha. I can't believe how 
funny this is. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
ha ha ha ha ha ha. Funny. Funny. Ha ha. That's 
the funniest thing I've read today."
-Anonymous Reader
71 WAS n. 
( WONDERING 
WHEN YOU'D , 
^G-ETHERE./
YeS.its. \ 
over. JimSmm n
Kaput.Lets 
\Qo cj
dnIne ccb':KrE PALMONP 
 mcBt YEr?wCbb/CycY ICwn*ut
EMERi WHERE X WBO "tUt.
People were 50 eriendls * Tutut
WERE CuR.MM.tOUS VA10MEN OrNO SOCIABLE 
KEt4. There vajere mo 8Kt> 
SWELLS, &N0 "THE Eooi WAS A-LLGOUR*AET FRENCH, SERNED
MOOEUi VIM SKmP-l 
/ WM.TR.ES5 WEAR.
Open Season tAd330Pr
la; \T WASN'T C.'SC.'EftM PrFTEe. ALL. 
THvi VS \T  CMO, &AROEt^ Of SiVENOae 
LAN<> Q? CONTENTMEUT, AttCHnECtVRAL 
GO.ACE , foNO EXQUISITE CUISINE1. 'iES1
-----------\ CtAO, COLLECrE ,-----
/F/L.VJV X - = THtGOPs'. y
f T \<uc.uo Ft wi^ a d V,
W... T'tA TVWNVtxHG- MWt...
VT WASH! A T>fc^.AM. THAI
X. PLACE. VS feVftR HBR . /--
m)RtAWTTW^ur^vS ?>E&UT\PJUGii^SSi P\.ftE.. Tat SVC.H 'AJA.b pECTL.S AMD A COOLyujfrs Btooj\NG-. Anor wifttALLTHG3t PR\5?IN. WWlft wnu
CcuUHNS f>rNt> STQi^E-^e?).' VU'tBE. THOSE: \ UPsWH t WBLLAOJviVT^D 9l. 
APS- QAG-HT
A 'Nwi\
m al eno
SWAMtEST
I t>RAM.yder / T/r 
mr / sun a/Te 
tP /Th o/mEV
"XRUN TUN'S
PA/agn whE
SEEM TIRED, 
(JO TO BED AND  GET SOME 
REST."
( Th^m X 3U00&NLH REALIZED .TMPa TH\b VMi^b I 
hs cou.e&.', y?
GO BACK 
TO
by Mark Kantrowltz
In a laddergram, the object 
is to transform the word 
on the top rung into the 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
the other letters. For 
example, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
three steps: LEAD, LOAD, 
GOAD, GOLD.
wkttt rktrp'; corn ok \jour pl-te, 
<XH<i *fOU <Acvi+ ntli cl da.'tel
You* 6ELCH >S =* SUSINE<5
FIRST Un&i&LlCAL CHUftCH
Copyright 0 1994 
by Mark Kantrowitz. 
All rights reserved,
Yne SPORT rE COKi AWP  ,viE'LL KEEi Inw cuREij
Solution(s) to this weeks laddergram: 
S93D S0do p9do pads pnds jnds jnos jno-j.
THIS IS AWFUL IF WE STEP OUT OF UNE ONCE TOHtSWT, ROSALYN m. K\IL US, AND THEN MOM AMD OAO W\U- WU-v-__US AGAW \m\TO GET UOV\E.
CALVIK, '(OVJ WANT TO 
PLA'i ROJGH, VMW? J____^
OF WEPTUKE! 
^ MvJsr _\yj!\SUPER POWERS 
i \ TCO/____?
YOVJWE GOT TJfO I Ort NO/ SECONDS 10 ET THE EVIL foR CAPED BUTT AHAloH IS \N BED, OR. ILL US|HG SOWE PUT \T THERE PSKUo-BEAM FOR GOOD/ TO WEAKEM STUPEHr^-v_ ^ 1X305 WLL:
TMIKGS MAS LOOK 
GRIM FOR t/S, 
BUT NOTHING IS 
GRIW FOR...
1IA COUMTIKGQNNNNE.
.snfcmtHis ) rw coinsMAN. CHMAmn TO SET IN 
OF LbBERru / BED bW 
FOE OF AND A'JOID
rIRANNb' IE ROPUt
iMTl'TTPl
wm?/ADMIT DEFEM-? NEVERIN A lERMILLloN FLASH, 
STUPENDOUS 
MAN IS IK THE AIR/
A ftiLT OF FlERS CRIMSON STREAKS ACROSS THE SVCi / ITS STUPENDOUS MAN/
THE FIENDISH BABY SITTER GIRL HAS A LOCAL HOUSEHOLD IN HER IRON GR\P OF TERROR.' THE MAN OF-MEGA-MIGHT ZOOMS TO THE RESCUE!
YOUR PARENTS TOLD YOO TO BEHAVE TONIGHT, REMEMBER?/ THETRE HOT GOING TO BE HAPPY WHEN TO HEAR ABOUT TheM
I'M IN LUCK/ BAB1 SITTER GIRL IS MOMENTARILY DISTRACTED.1 ^
I hare"b,t old eudr"npg s,rat bfC u-,e rl la, "oli, Cupdl,efd auid, rcrbpg aCCm put rhlir""s a,fd x,,p ke,lls chu' .H<wyz.g s,rat---- t CAHT BEUEVE \T. .
AIL R\GHT, CALVIN/ VIHERED YOU GO?/ I KNOW YOJ'RE CUT HERE/
SEE, \F WE HAD HONEY. WEBOJGUT A DOG CAME HEREINSTEAD, L\K TO RELAX.
I WANTED, WE LETS TALXCOULD GO OUT ABOJTLIKE THIS ALL SOMETHING s_ THE TIME. A ELSE.
WITH STUPENDOUS SPEED, 
STUPENDOUS MAN IS OUT _ THE DOOR/ r__r
SPewhdI justice am hwk 
rmil QVERTfRW 
w\ smER girl/
ANYWAY CHARLIE, I'M 9DRRY WE QDULONT GO OUT TONIGHT, BUT 1H\5 UTTLE CREEPS PARENTS ARE SO DESPERATE 10 6ET AWAY FROM W\U\ ONCE IN A WHILE THAT THEY...
OF COURPEt' I 
MADE A PrUiENDOUP 
DAP AP PMN AP 
ROPALPN WENr 
AROJND rE OUPE! 
PUE STILL DOEPN'r 
KNOW WERE I MCALV\N, YOU'RE IN B\E> TROUBLE \F VO) DONT CCAAE OUT/_____
GET OFF ME, 
CALVIN, YOU 
PEST/ OW/ 
LET GO/ 
QUIT \T /
STUPENDOUS /MY HAS THE STRENGTH OF A MILLION MORTAL MEN/ GIVE UP/ O
LISTEN CHARUE, Y WTH 
I'M GO\NG TO HAVE / HUSOES OF 
TO CALL YCW BACK/ MAGHlTVDE. 
YOU WOULDN'T STUPENDOUS 
BELIEVE WHAT >iW FIGHTS 
THIS CRETIN IS WITH HEROIC 
s. WEARING. X V RESOLVE.'
THERE IS NO WAY 11A GETT1HG PA\D ENOUGH FOR THIS KIND OF AGGRAVATION. HOW COULD A KID WITH SUCH UTILE LEGS GO SO FAST?/ Jt
SECURE IN MS SECRET FORTRESS. STJPEN POOS MAN PLANS HIS STRATEGY/ BA8Y SITTER GIRL IS NO MATCH R5R. STUPENDOUS MANS STUPENDOUS INTELLECT/ f

---------------------------------------------------

Lei 'S 50 18 our hidden 
(camera <*rd See how GoroK^ 
is doing. - Remember, -folk's, n 
^ order id win, he has h -folk 
his way.into Me house --
> difficult for any monster
but Gorok is a\so dressed [as an insurance Salesman'
Monster game showsAt the Dog Museum
FAR
TH ISJUSN75
fcwfi vvai'm " 1 1 I /
515253
57
to
ACROSSDOWN1. Cup holder1. Vigor5. Arachnid creations2. Melody 8. Mimics3. Lucky streak -j,12. Dancer Flynn4. Bombarded
13. Plural of os5. Poorest14. Spheres6. Before15. Farm feature7. Nemesis16. Stimpys pal8. Large artery17. Vestment9. Money winner18. Avian claws10. Declining period20. Consume11. Compass direction i22. Spot19. Neither23. Ziti, e.g.21. Able27. Papyrus descendant24. Sprinkle30. Small bed2.5. Show, in racing32. Doctorate26. Love33. Among27. Heathen34. Combat28. Organic compound 35. River29. 15th century ship ;36. Card game30. Walking aid37. Single31. Raw mineral38. Common surname34. Sorrow39. Working insect38. Roque40. Golf apparatus40. Your41. X-Men: Kitty41. Luau treat42. Under43. Buy for44. Caucasian (slang)44. Sightless45. Dark bread46. Deciduous trees47. Booze48. Former country51. Deceased49. Garfield's friend54. Honolulu neckwear50. Disgusting56. Dairy organization51. Musical notes57. Opera solo52. Actor Carney58. Take control of'53. Spanish aunt59. 90 degree phase55. Watershift of sine?
60. Now, doctor!
61. Soap bubble
62. Journey
HSEH9 ana nassa Kiiiaa mala ddbeiUHSE USB BE3Q53 ?aaanB 0.ML
By GARY LARSON
7,
Graffiti in hellWell, Red Cloud, it just so happens I did go ask the 
chief!... A bear claw necklace is a symbol of honor  
a Grizzly Adams fingernail necklace is not!
So, Professor Sadowsky, youre saying that your 
fellow researcher, Professor Lazzell, knowing full well 
that baboons consider eye contact to be threatening, 
handed you this hat on that fateful day you emerged 
from your Serengeti campsite.
V

---------------------------------------------------

Whats a Wendell?by Matt Goldberg
"TW quy just- WOn 'f
k.fcp juiet. l+'S 
vibrocHru^ tkewoJIs, 
forajooiries^ Salce/,
KNOCK Ir
OFF ALREADY?.
Hasn't he got 
<u\y Courtesy? 
Xf's three, m rKe 
morniioq//
hlcc.
/rs APKIL ASM-Kemw&z- youk 
UTTl PUP Hfl5 5F&CIAL- etmtML veeps/&T OFF'Off//t/L 
^ orm&,
<g\SW/rs
..way MAY 36
ourrz p/FtmeMT from YM?9.Mrr-.No...
f^rmy/(VO/
MU 
TartnSf
viscmae with cm. utm pup's 
sea-zTsm /5 Fmtte.t% FIRM... &TABU5H CMROLTf?y TO 56Tm ROATlONSHtP 
FROM HIS eY6.
WE'RE BACK WITH OUR 
OLPFRJENPPR. PAN ASHER. POP SHRINK 
ANP LEAPING GURU FOR 
THE RECOVERED MEMORY MOVEMENT, 
RJ6HT, POC?
THATS RIGHT, MARK. IH RECENT 
YEARS, Mi PATIENTS HAVE MATE 
TREMENPCU5 PROGRESS BY RE
CALLING REPRESSED CHILD HOOP 
TRAUMA THROUGH HYPNOSIS!
ANT? YOU'LL HAVE A CHANCE TO 
HEAR PAN IN ACTION WHEN HE 
PUTS YOURS TRULY UNPER-R/GHT 
HEREON LIVERAPIO! THAT 
ANP MORE WHEN WE RETURN!
SOMEONE QUIETLY STEPS 
FROM THE SHAP0W5...
N PO YOU SEE HIM, MARK ?
ANP WHO IS IT, MARK? 
WHO'S STAND
ING BESIPE
IT'S... IT'SLYNPON
JOHNSON/
SO, PANHOLU'S 
THE 
FAMILY?
NOT SO 
GOOD I HAP TO 
SUE MOM.
NO, NO, ITSJOHHIT'S YOUR SON, I 
FATHER. TELL YOU/ 
WHAT'S HE HE'S COME 
WEARING? TO...TO 
/ DRAFT
IT'S MANY YEARS AGO...YOU'RE IN 
YOUR OWN BED... 
IT'S LATE AT. 
NIGHT... \ /
I DO...ISEE HIM IN THE 
MOONLIGHT!
THANKS, MARK! 
WHAT I'LL BE 
PO/NG ISHYPNO
TIZING YOU IN 
ORPERTO RECOVER 
L0N6-REPRES6EP y 
MEMORIES... 6
OKAY, CAMPERS, 
HERE WE GO! OUR 
OL'FRJENP PR. PAN 
ASHER IS ABOUT TO 
PUT YOURS TRULY 
UNPER! TAKE IT,
PAN!
IT'S A 
VEHICLE, 
ISNTIT? 
SOMESORT OF SPACE 
VEHICLE?
YOU'RE BEING TELEPORTED! 
ISNT THAT 
RJ6HT, MARK? 
YOU'RE BEING TBIBPORJBP?
IMUSTCAUTJON 
YOU, IT COULD GET U6LY. 
WE'LL BE ACCESSING ALL. 
SOKT5 OF EXPERIENCES 
ANP IMAGES YOU'VE A
LON6F0R6OTTBN, f
OKAY? J
YES! I 
START 
SHAKING! 
I'M...I'M...
FINE. HEY, rLI SEE
COULP YOU WHAT I
FINPMYKEYS? CAN PO. 
I CANT REMEM- I 
BERWHEREI 
PUT THEM.
POSSIBLY! GOTTA
WE'LL MYTHE
FINPOUT BIUE. I
AFTERTHESE HEAR
BRJEFMES- YOU. \
SAGES! /fei
NOW I 
SEE A...A 
BLINPIN6 
LIGHT...
I... I SUDDENLY CANT TELL. YOU FEEL A
IT HAS STRANGE
NEVAPA SENSATION,
PLATES... RIGHT?
'AN-AIR. REPRESSEP-MEMORYHYPN0SI5 THERAPY...THEN IT'S 
YOUR MOTHER! 
SHE'S HOLDINO A KNIFE, 
ISNT-SHE?
YOUSEE 
SOMETHING, 
PONT YOU? 
ITS AN 
AUEN, RIGHT?
I'M...I'M 
STAMPING 
OUTSIPE...ON A 
DESOLATE 
COUNTRY 
ROAD...
50, DR. 
PAN-FINP 
ANYTHING 
INTERESTING BURJEP/N 
MYSUBCONSCJOUS?
OKAY, WERE 
BACK-ANP NO L0N6ER UNPER 
APOCTORS 
CARS!
AS A MATTER 
OF FACT, I 
PIP MARK. 
BUT ITS OF 
APR/VATE 
NATURE.
ALU, WHATTHE HELL- WELL, IT 
NO ONE'S TURNS OUT 
LISTENING VOU'REfAY. 
TO THIS
SHOW ANY- ~
WAY!
SHOOT! /
WHERE AREYOU 
NOW,MARK? 
CAN YOU 
TELLME?
UM-1 
PONT 
THINK 
SO...
THENWHY 
IS IT REPRESSED? CLASSIC 
PENIAL!
CORRECTION: 
I'M OPENLY 
S GAY ^YOU FEEL RELAXED... 
YOU FEEL COMPLETELY 
RELAXED NOW,
PONT )W, MARK?

---------------------------------------------------

6^06HiNO
LIFE (M H6LU
KILLER BOOM1/ LIES IMMOgLC AS 
MS' &e<0 AHiLLlri fREMOjOif,0fj
SHAILS! M Mu/aj^ xJ'Yoad.s
OF 5zOaz5/ Ywry'Rr wnie&AeAsN 
fO 'Pl^mDe-r OUR ,f^fk
?L A A)-f ! ____ Y^Jfip
1 HAPPeO TO KAVB A 
copy or <<XHi*f poft.
ilOO TO SlGrt, OUA tci*3G.
VJHATS THE. DEALwtTH rviigt aioc?
JfcFF?.' Aft.ETHEy 
MU)ElfctV oe U)HAT?
hSOO PO THE. Sl^P OrOS ? 
-----------\ WOW 1 /---------r
X HATE. 
THE SiMPS*f.
r coxv-o >.*0 DftAu) \ K6 A fUTU*6
OP Stfoop'j?
VOouJ ! IT MUST BE 
WltP 6EM& MflRRieo 
cv uiNOft 6new. .
ahPHw yoO rv^O wviI() 
we A PltTUfiE 0FME66 
SlMPSofS NAKEDIWIW'T 
SEu_ it. IT's Foe M9 rr 
PftWATE COLLeC-TIOiO.y V
I jo Hc +vXilddoe&cuuv 
Me. COPPOLA. I---------rrWAfJ'OB.TRftcE OftllrJAl. AftX,MW 6E6j IR
riCAfijouiLk, ow iiu 5pA<:c
VREPAUE rUFWASS) 
n^rnUcf/o/O VAY'yCOfAtOtf, MA0. ALUV3E 
NEtP IS 4-9,000 
PIGS AftE &OMMA fclCfetfS 
OOT of OuC-COHMUfOe^
3o0 60TCA OftA\AJ Kt A 
PvctORE OF Bart oro A 
HAetty. holp/ngupthe 
SEVE.C.EP HEAP OF My 6ilFItO(?. SHELL r-|
LOVE /r'----------
I,tv\iJooR_8l66EST FArJ 
IKTHE Uioeuo. rvt&oT AU^THE SlMPfOrJ? CocxfCTD' 
PuATES. i  -r
Vifc. fcAay DlOrJT 
APPRGCVAT& 3ou_ 
CAeroorJ s-tavp enie 
iro?ouTtt? Piee.ar06.
^'THAHteS A loT"? Y?
THATS THE Xleop aou
VCW Po??/.
HBj. LOOK EVeWBOC*)!!
Us Poi' FRe a.O'av<a
udc sTiyh,p2tb /rr
X totss X'D LVfeE-boue. (\iK06baph BJEri though 
yoO SOLC? OUT TO HoU-4 wood.
UOULD ^00 MllOP IF 
XJUST FOUUWED 
yoo AftoufOi? foe. . 
A UTTIS. UjHILt? y
UX3S PET M>1 TATTOO, MA>0 
1' 'J0OC.816G6T FAiOf
ftlEV'Kcr AOUf 
< <0 ,0kSmJ0H u rG
<wB MotiCftiKfOlO!
KiJJPEUXO
EdoCseFf
MEI/CR 
x ast
Goo4 Me!Htfve ctHeippy
sSppoF* f TUki. *1lu'*r*im\IUr \
UOGB LOW 0/J fitALbjEVGRVOtJe! I KUOk) lyM &0/MA USED ifl
I I'm ricH sAurf^Riu/M 
' A (JO I'w eufJWIIJC' F-oR
V seufrrg... .
VHft't OtJt , ot1 TrteSf
'TAk5s.c KP--oPe^slL
Ice \
, cP~eb^ C| 
/f}^ ( ^> lv\V^!O- )
q E cb Km EVRCs. R
I HAVE THe'^e tr^opry
Uj (TH M>f AjA/IaE" OiJ 
v;-,. HftVt A^r:
'Tu CiT'/S 
(JCo (0 OW-V COKJ 
-Tl Mw.es To 
\ CRu rt 6z-:
IT LooK5> L\ KG SoM.c j 
OF ThG -3^ AT TH& L 
fMuu B>e Sby&0)J~
-:-~ij------------------------------^
r^V Rich SftiJi-TA^tUM  
>,s veu- OM1 His
"To prlAcau m
^ se^ATsr f-A|Ct. J
[ bogjytff. (P ^fc.
1y( oMciOte 
P6:30.Dc> 6R_ U/ooycfvJ
VAR tracts,, .
srejM^te,,, i
Cftio T.5 fs,^ 
H'^ TH0U6HTS
4suAt'-Y w6x\ 
L\Kf T&
Trt SerA5fgRwnv. A Cc\ff^Afl6^; 8wT 
^L'v- ydg l06>Sf 
Plo T" UrOeS
Sger^ To 6i; 
Ti^O U.P.,,.
I &ue^>s e
01^7
3 WsHIbpt DAnie
| rii (Z- A 
^CUPrftAM6g^7 
ju51 N. 
i Dwrvf2t y
1 . .hpn TBaouJ
i UP A 
0> ]T '/o^
fi To v'tTC 
' lv ?=>p- rnc ! /
OK, D(P 1 Hgfj - 
TwjiJ I'M. TU^- 
^/-iLirJG -rD p^io/o 
'~7^:r\ 5^Tt
ut^PD ^'eyT
\-'-0/4 sie^-
( hmm^s
u'bc etC uc C'aS Euaieb. uw A am^/y\^
C)^\n3o-aO 44-0ky fc ^aiflf k/ 3S7jni.w3d 5W3V 4.bbl-ll'

---------------------------------------------------

We invite 
you to the 
following 
graduation 
celebrations, 
in your honorGn^
sponsored 
by the 
Alumni 
Association!
^//axVio'
^\ass
We are 
proud to 
welcome 
you to the 
Carnegie 
Mellon 
Alumni 
Association!
Grad Gift i__/ Zero Year Reunion
Wednesday - Saturday Moving Right Along
May 11-14, 1994 Friday, May 13, 1994
11a.m.-6 p.m.
Tent on the Mall 
Stop by the Alumni House (,48) Forbes Ave) 4-7 p.m. 
to pick up your free gift. Chat with Alumni
and enjoy refreshments. Co-sponsored by SARC
and the Alumni Association
Sponsored by the Alumni Association
First Reunion - Fall 1994
Saturday October 1, 1994 
Post-Game Party 
Mudge Lounge
Call Shelley 26S-S451 
for more information
YaP caPky dsbe ib: edick. 
Insb iGiobH :aP caPkyvs Gabs ea ib: scnaak.
There are thousands of colleges out there. Fortunately, you made a good choice. 
Now make the right choice when you leave. Rent a truck from Ryder.
Ryder makes your move easy. With a convenient toll-free reservation number. 
Clean, reliable vehicles that are easy to load and drive. Fast processing to speed up check
in and check-out. And a 24-hour Roadside Assistance Line for help along the way.
So put your education to good use and call 1-800-G0-RYDER (1-800-467-9337) 
or call your local Ryder dealer for special student rates:
iftVPEB
Were there when you need us?
4621 Forbes Avenue 
412-682-1947
4764 Baum Boulevard 
412-687-9005
7535 Penn Avenue 
412-241-3003

---------------------------------------------------

By NICOLE ALLEN
& TRINETTE CHANDLER
fartan Staffwriters
As we entered historic Heinz Hall, we 
could feel the heavy sense of anticipa
tion for Maya Angelou, prized poet, play
wright, author, and humanitarian. The 
lights dimmed when an extremely ar
ticulate presence appeared on stage, 
joised with a red scarf wrapped around 
i conservative suit. Before she could 
utter one syllable, she was welcomed 
with a five-minute bout of applause, and 
when it was over, it was apparent that 
Angelou was ready to give a sparkling 
performance.
Born in the back country of Arkansas, 
Angelou was raised by her grandmother 
after the death of both parents. As a
child, she endured the hardships faced 
by many Americans during the early 
half of this century. At the tender age of 
seven, she was raped by an uncle who 
was later found mysteriously kicked to 
death. The trauma from this rape and 
from feeling that her uncles death was 
her fault caused Angelou to stop speak
ing for many years afterwards. It was 
during this time that she became ac
quainted with a teacher who took inter
est in her and introduced her to poetry. 
She read poetry in an encyclopedia. She 
began with authors whose last name 
began with A and finally read to the end 
of the alphabet. She became well versed 
in poetry and used it as a means of 
survival and respite in her harsh envi
ronment. Poetry helped transform 
Angelou from a shy, unspeaking little
girl into a voice that had to be heard. At 
the age of 14, Angelou broke the sevenyear silence.
As she carefully studied the audience, 
she seemed to let us in on a little secret 
when she said, Poetry put starch in my 
backbone. The audience sat captive to 
every word that fell with lyrical ease 
from Angelous lips as she explored the 
romantic poetry of various AfricanAmerican authors  all of whom she 
called her favorites. According to 
Angelou, blacks did not write the same 
poetry as classical poets like Keats and 
Poe.
She insisted that blacks had a story to 
tell about struggles and happiness and 
love that somehow differed from these 
poets, but that the common vein of great 
writing was shared by all. Her reading
was enjoyed by many, even the hearing 
impaired, since there were two sign lin
guists to interpret everything Angelou 
said and did, from a sigh to a light 
chuckle. After she made love to the 
hearts of the audience with poetry from 
Paul Dunbar, Langston Hughes, and 
Gwendolyn Brooks, Angelou was hum
bly offered praise and adulation from an 
ecstatic audience.
As Angelou captured our senses and 
stimulated our minds, she took care to 
remind students of all races to utilize 
libraries more and to explore the realm 
of poets other than the usual white poets 
we read about every day. There is a 
world of difference between being taught 
and being trained, she said as she let 
each word caress the conscience of each 
member of the audience.
As we left, many were moved by the 
fact that they had learned something 
from this prominent figure in American 
poetry.
Angelou gently assuaged our minds 
and souls with the prolific poetry of 
known and unknown black writers. As 
we slowly filtered out of Heinz Hall, it 
seemed as if each of us was reluctant to 
leave the warm aura Angelous presence 
provided.
For a tiny moment on Tuesday, April
12, race or gender didnt matter to the 
multicultural crowd. The fact that she 
had cancelled the previous reading didnt 
seem to matter either. The only thing 
that mattered was the thread of good 
poetry that she spun around our hearts, 
lending us a deeper understanding of 
why the caged bird sings.
Cu\D rkCm\CB Ch\CB\muha nhcC mTmuh
By JOHN BIGGS
Diversions Co-Editor
Once again, I was not disap
pointed with City Theaters lat
est production, From the Missis
sippi Delta. Written by Dr. 
Sndesha I.M. Howard, From the 
Mississippi Delta is a comical, 
varm, and poignant description 
if the authors life and trials as 
she moved from an impoverished 
Mississippi town to Minnesota. 
The cast of three women, Chrystal 
Bates, Elva Branson, and Etta 
Cox, play numerous roles in the 
play. These versatile women, di
rected by Seattles Jacqueline 
Diane Moscou, play ancient men
tors, young girls, quiet men, and 
swaggering schoolboys. Through
out the play, they sing and dance 
the beat of the Mississippi 
Delta.
The set is sparse, and through
out the production, a swift and 
powerful harmonica is played by 
music director David Dunn to 
accentuate the action. The three 
women act out an approximation 
of Dr. Hollands early life, and 
through the use of narration and 
dialogue, the stories are fleshed 
out and made powerfully mov
ing. At points, the women holler 
blues calls or whisper sweet gos
pel tunes to fit the action on stage. 
Bates, Bransons, and Coxs work 
is seamless and ener
getic, making the play 
very enjoyable.
Howard, a professor at 
the State University of 
New York, wrote this 
play to show the truth 
and horrors of racism 
and to shed light on her 
sordid and painful past.
The play is split into 
separate stories, rang
ing from humorously in
nocent to disturbingly 
shocking. From the story 
of an old woman who 
wants people to keep off 
her water meter to the 
description of a girl try
ing to work in a carnival 
as a dancer, the work 
gives the audience a 
sense of peace and recol- ^
lection, sweetened by memory 
and time.
While it is not a very hard
hitting look at prejudice, the play 
tries to make the trials of the 
characters universal and there
by break down the barriers of
stereotypes. The cast sing and 
act with a rhythm and gentleness 
that correlate perfectly with the 
plays themes. All in all, City
are Tuesday through Sunday at 8 
pm. Special rates are available
15 minutes before performances, 
as well as with a student ID.
Photo courtesy of City Theater 
Bates In her audition for City Theaters From the Mississippi Delta.
Theatres From the Mississippi 
Delta is an admirable production, 
both enjoyable and meaningful 
and at all times, full of the pas
sion of life.
From the Mississippi Delta will 
close on May 15. Performances
From The Mlssislppl Delta 
receives 3 out of 4 masks
PnhdkCu: yncmb 
\Bube\C u:dBCaaCa
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
On Tuesday, April 19,1 had the joy of attending one of the best 
vocal concerts I have ever heard. The junior cocal performance 
majors dedicated their performance, Stephen Sondheim: A Celebra
tion of Music!, to The Pittsburgh AIDS Task Force.
The Alumni Concert Hall in CFA was packed to the gills. All 
present were eagerly awaiting what would be a spectacular recital 
full of mirth and magic featuring Sondheims wide variety of music.
Beginning with  Comedy Tonight from A Funny Thing Happened 
on the Way to the Forum, I could see that the night would be filled 
with great music and great singers. Although I personally would 
have chosen a different selection of songs from Sondheims plays, the 
pieces they performed opened my ears to the other works that 
Sondheim has written.
I only recognized songs from the plays Merrily We Roll Along and 
Sweeney Todd. Brenda Bush did a rousing performance as she sang 
Everybody Loves Louie from Sunday In The Park With George, 
Sondheims Pulitzer Prize-winning play.
In one of the most hysterical musical pieces I have seen to date, 
Noelle Banks, Joe Domencic, and Linh Kauffman performed Get
ting Married Today, from Company. Other singers included Manu 
Narayan, James Lynn, Robin Korsin, Colleen Cosgrove, Jason 
Poole, and Brian Deutsch.
I commend Pro
ducer/Director/Singer 
Brian Deutsch for 
making the evening 
possible and putting on 
a great show that I will 
never forget.
Stephen Sondheim: A Celebration of Music 
receives 4 out of 4 masks
Fluid rave comingLast Scotch n Soda play of year to premiere
DIVF,USIONS
Angelou reading captivates eager audience
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Business Manage
their legacies, both inspirational and deadly, are 
passed among the women. They share both a 
frightening sickness and the ability to conceal 
Fight! Focus! This is for the audience! You fear through love, protection, passion, and dancneed to be strongstronger'? The commands ing. The element of dancing is integral to the 
bellow through the practice room in Margaret play, as it serves as a source of inspiration, life, 
Morrison as sophomore directing major and unity for the three women. Other parts are 
Daniella Topol leads a cast of five. Yet for all played by Justin Caroll as the Father and Steve 
her audacity, the actors are surprisingly com- Dunlap as the Man.
placent; her intensity is somehow understood. Silverman and Topol have contacted local
It soon becomes apparent ________________________ womens hospithat something more than i *'a^s an(^ breast
a rehearsal is going on here . i cancer groups to
 these students are promote support
sweating. within the
That something is the mKmfc \ greater coramuaura which surrounds nity. The exciteDancingintheFootstepsof BhESk mentandencourmy Grandmother's Ghost, 1? agement has
a play written by sopho- iiiw*  been tremenmore director Leigh |||tiilili Bw. dous, says
Silverman. What started Silverman. The
out last year as a poem in Bfe annual Race for
her playwrighting class ' IKi the Cure, a
about National Breast | I ^ IHH marathon deCancer Awareness Week  " Is signed to raise
evolved into a working money for breast
script by last December. ^cancer research,
After many revisions it was ^ is scheduled for
read at the Beehive Cof-  Saturday
feehouse as part of their y--~ momingofoneof
New Voices Seriesand was Dancing's perfortlien proposed to Scotch n SI' mances.
Soda for production. Obvi-  - Were hoping
ously, that proposal was to turn the weekaffirmed. / ~ Wt end intsort fThe play is about breast Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer an event, says
cancerliving with a dis- Christy Moore, Mlcki Paley, Heather Arnet, and Silverman. We
ease. It is a photo album Steve Dunlap rehearse for Dancing.... want to provoke
told in a variety of flash- thought and
backs, memories, and snapshots which span raise awareness about the disease. No play has 
three generations and move forward in a non- been written about breast cancer, but this deals 
linear sequence of time. exclusively with it.
It is a generational piece centering around Topol and Silverman were also lucky to work 
a Grandmother (sophomore Heather Amet), with artist/photographerMatouschka, a woman 
Mother (senior Christy Moore) and Daughter with breast cancer who is not afraid to keep 
(sophomore Micki Paley) who use their strong presenting her body image and who works to 
relationships and memories as weapons make people see the beauty of her body  to 
againstanomnipresentfear.Thewomengoon influence those who feel they should be afraid 
parallel journeys throughout the script, and and conceal it. She is very inspirational, says
Topol.
In just three weeks of rehearsal the play has 
taken shape and the cast and crew alike have 
worked collectively hard. Its been scary and 
exciting all at once. The play changes every day. 
says Topol. Theres a breakthrough at every 
rehearsal... theyre [the cast] taking their intel
lectual understanding of the play to their gut  
to their heart. Because the director and Dlav- wright are so close, Topol has easily grasped 
Silvermans intent.
Its amazing to see my ideas and words that 
Ive given to Daniella and the designers come to 
life, says Silverman. And thats no small feat. 
These women have created and are now prepar
ing to perform something which they have pro
duced on their own time.
One dollar tickets for Dancing In the Footsteps 
of My Grandmothers Ghost, Scotch n Sodas last 
play of the year, go on sale May 2 at the Skibo 
Information Desk. Shows are May 6 at 8 pm, May
7 at 2 and 8 pm, and May 8 at 8 pm.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer 
Daniella Topol and Leigh Silverman discuss the 
script.Fluid will occur this Friday In the Ballroom.
By TARA ZANE
Diversions Co-Editor
On Friday, April 29, the Carnegie Mellon community 
will have the chance to flow into the future under the 
starry sky at the Wean Hall Patio. Whats this about, you 
ask? Planetcore, a student promotion group, and SDC are 
presenting a rave on campus. This is Planetcores third 
rave at CMU. Last year, they threw two successful raves, 
each of which had a whopping attendance of 600  700 
people. Both raves had admission fees, but this year, 
thanks to SDC funding, the only admission fee required 
for the Fluid rave is a positive vibe and a massive smile.
Planetcores aim is to provide CMU students with a 
chance to take part in the global rave scene from Pitts
burgh. Originating out of the acid house movement which 
began in Chicago in 1987, the rave scene, according to 
Planetcore co-promoters Aden Ikram and Eric Davis, is 
about the music (techno) and the idea of unitybringing 
together people from all different backgrounds.
Fluid boasts an impressive line-up of deejays, including 
Mass Zenergy (a techno club in the Strip District) Deadly 
Buda and top Cleveland d.j. from Psychoactive Records, 
Steve Sinch. Student Mike Minnach will also be mixing 
the tunes, as will be RECYCLEDs Matt Drown. In 
addition, there will be a live performance by one8seven 
techno recording artist Joe Lesesne.
Planetcore will enhance Fluid even further by using a 
massive 12,000 watt sound system composed of four 
subwoofers and six speakers. Unless the rave is rained 
out and has to relocate to Skibo Ballroom, the Wean Hall 
patio should be an unusual, yet unique location for Fluid. 
The rave begins at 10 pm and runs until 1 am. Look for 
Fluids full-color flyers around campus and get psyched!

---------------------------------------------------

Student Organizational Information Activits Fair 1994
Cbu:a mhd OBTmhuzm\unha: ibCmaC dBnyudC ea wub\ DneB ae::CB mddBCaa mhd dknhC he:bCB an \km\ wC cmh cnBBCadnhd wu\k Dne deBuhT \kC ae::CBt rkC Ac\uyu\uCa FmuB wubb kC kCbd rkeBadmDM PCd\C:bCB GM cBn: p S 7 dt
Name:________________________________________
Organiztion:______________________________________
Summer Address:________________________________________
Summer Phone Number:________________________________________
Please return to Anne R. Witchner, Director of Student Activities, Skibo Infnrmaflon Dusk, by Mny p. Thank yuu.
One of these high-speed, high-performance 
machines can be yours for low monthly payments. 
The other one is just here for looks.
Lamborghini Diablo VI' with leather interior, cool wheels 
and a really, really, really fast engine.Power Macintosh 6100/60 8/160 with an Apple' Color 
Plus 14"Display, an Apple Extended Keyboard It and mouse.
Right now, when you qualify for the Apple Computer Loan, you could pay as little 
as $33' a month for a Power Macintosh It!s one of the 
fastest, most powerful personal computers ever. Which 
means youll have the ability to run high-performance programs like statistical
inwCB Mmcuh\nak cnB $.. m :nh\kt
analysis, simulations, video editing and much more. Without wasting time. If youd 
like further information on Power Macintosh, visit
your Apple Campus Reseller. Youre
sure to find a dream machine thats well within your budget.AddbCM
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store
or
Monthly payments an estimate faged on nit Apple Computer loan of $2,122 for the Pouer Macintosh 6100/60 S/160 sbouv above. hice andloanamountsarebasedonApplesesliniateof higher education prices as of Febniarf 199^tomputer system prices, monthlytaymenls and loan amounts may vary. See jour Apple Campus Resellerfor current prices. A 55% loan origination jee will be cukkdto the 
requested loan amount. Tic interest rate is variable, basal on tbe commercial paper rate plus535%. For the montb ofFebruary-, 1994, the interest rale was 854%, u-itb an AIR of 10.14%. 8-yvarloan term u-itb no prepayment penalty. The monthly payment sboun assumes no deferment ofprincipal or interest (deferment unll change your monthly payments). The Apple Computer Loan is subject to credit approval.
1994Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Power Macintosh is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 April 1994
PedCB:mh BC:m\ck a\mB\a a\BnhT
Easily the most memorable event in 
comic history during my lifetime has 
been Supermans death at the hands of 
Doomsday about a year and a half ago. 
Naturally, the rematch between these 
two titans (although they both died in 
their battle) is pretty climactic, as well, 
so it will be a fitting topic for my last 
installment of Comic Book Chronicles. 
Apparently DC thought this rematch 
was special too, since rather than havng this story told in the Superman com
ics like their original battle, theyre put
ting out a three-part, prestige format 
limited series titled Superman I Dooms
day: Hunter /Prey. By the way, its $4.95 
an issue, which is kind of steep, but at 
least it doesnt have a gimmick cover.
Well, with all the hype surrounding 
this book, I guess I was expecting too 
much. Hunter I Prey was somewhat of a 
disappointment after the classic Death 
of Superman, Funeral For a Friend, 
and The Reign of the Supermen. Well, 
I guess they are pretty hard acts to 
follow. Plus this is only the first out of 
three books, so I wont pass too harsh a 
judgement yet. First of all, the cover is 
pretty cheesy. Im not sure what I dont 
like about it, but the cover is way too 
plain and boring for such a momentous 
occasion as Superman getting a second 
shot at the creature who killed him. 
However, for all the cheesiness of the
Comic Book Chronicles 
Jason Andrackl
exterior, Dan Jurgens and Brett Breed
ing combine for some breathtaking art 
in the interior. The unique panel layouts 
and the glossy paper make this a great 
book to look at.
While the art on this book is pheno
menal, Jurgens story has its ups and 
downs. It starts out really strong (Im 
just a sucker for comic book dream se
quences), gets weak in the middle, but 
ends on an extremely high point. 
Supermans self doubt and, dare I say it, 
fear, have me counting down the days 
until the second book hits the stands. I 
dont want to sound too pessimistic 
though, because there were some other 
good points, too. Its always nice to see 
Jack Kirbys Darkseid and Desaad and I 
enjoyed seeing Oberon from the Justice 
League of America in a brief cameo. 
Although I enjoyed these guest appear
ances, I wasnt jumping for joy to see the 
return of the Cyborg who masqueraded 
as easily the most annoying of the four 
would-be Supermen. The explanation 
for his return has more holes than Swiss
cheese. One thing I must commend is 
Jurgens ability to build action up to a 
boiling point which he did with Super
man and Doomsdays inevitable clash. 
Actually we have to wait till next month 
for their battle, since Superman only got 
within a few feet of his killer before he 
disappeared into a boom tube on the 
last page of the book.
Overall, this was an enjoyable book 
and I will definitely pick up the other 
two issues regardless of the price. Al
though I liked this book, there was somethingthat disturbedme about it. It seems 
that Jurgens and Breeding were ignor
ing the Comics Code when they increased 
the gore and bloodshed with this book. 
In the handful of pages in which Dooms
day appeared, he cut someone in half at 
the torso, decapitated another person, 
and impaled a couple others.
Im not one to complain about violence 
(hey, I love a good impaling as much as 
the next guy), but I was shocked to see 
these images in a book that I know a lot 
of younger readers will be buying. Oh 
well, thats my public service message 
for the year.
Id like to remind everybody about the 
Pittsburgh Comicon happening on April 
29, 30, and May 1. Its $6 (or $15 for all 
three days). What better way to cel
ebrate the end of classes than by spend
ing a lot of money on comics?
mmkiffl
Thursday, April 28
The Man Who Fell to Earth
A cult classic starring David Bowie as an alien who is trapped 
on our planet. Directed by Nicolas Roeg, this movie is a moody, 
bizzare masterpiece.
At 5:45, 8, 10:15 pm, and 12:30 am.
Friday, April 29
Mrs. Doubtfire
Robin Williams stars as a woman in this moody, bizzare 
comedy. Williams shines in this story of a man who loses custody 
in a divorce battle and wants to get closer to his children. In order 
to do this, he dresses up as a nanny, Mrs. Doubtfire. Logic abounds 
in this quirky comedy.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, April 30
The Piano
CMU alum and Oscar award-winner Holly Hunter stars in this 
erotic and experimental tale of a deaf woman, her daughter, and 
a piano.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
Alum produces computer music
By JENNIFER URSO
Tartan Darkroom Manager
If you dont want to lose your hearing, then you 
probably shouldnt listen to the first two tracks of 
Christopher K Koenigsbergs CD, Brains. This 
experimental, computer-generated sound ar
rangement lacks much originality, but has its 
moments in some pieces.
The opening music is a bunch of random sounds, 
which is fine, considering hes an experimental 
artist, but I fail to see how hes put the sounds he 
has discovered to any use. Im pleased that 
Koenigsberg is fascinated with something that 
sounds like someone trying to build their own 
radio, but technically speaking, it only seems like 
hes pressing different buttons on an old synthe
sizer. Theyre neat sounds"; but he" doesnt do 
anything with them, and by his use of them, he 
seems a bit too proud of his discovery.
The Free Spirit, the third track, is a lot more 
interesting because its simple, but haunting. 
One sound is drawn out for 18 minutes, but 
changes slightly if you listen closely. Voices lurk 
underneath an unearthly, consistent echo and 
rise and fall in easing waves. Its like listening to 
a Philip Glass piece if you have the patience, 
which I do. Of all the tracks on this CD, this one 
the strongest. I like the idea of layering simplici
ties.
The next few tracks provide interesting sound 
layering, but fail to withstand on that alone for 
long. They seem to go on for a bit too long without 
enough variation, but are stimulating nonethe
less. None of them are very alike, which provides 
the variation that isnt always found within the 
pieces themselves.
The last several tracks disappointed me. I 
thought that possibly Koenigsberg was getting
on to something that was displaying his interest and 
discovery in the sounds he was finding, but these 
tracks ended up being snippets with little bits of 
cheesy drum beats thrown in. I understand the rush 
to finish putting out a CD, but maybe if he had 
waited a little longer, he could have come up with 
something that didnt sound so last minute.
Regardless of what seems like a bad review, I 
enjoyed listening to Brains overall. Tracks such as 
The Free Spirit, Brains, and LCM for 12 Piano 
Sample made the experience worthwhile. The pieces 
are not technologically difficult. Im not a disc-head, 
but I could figure out how he made a lot of his sounds 
(mainly because Ive made the same ones but with 
different samples).
I think for electronic or computer music to be 
completely successful, the listener has to try not to 
think about the fact that theyre listening to elec
tronically generated music. Older electronic music 
had no choice because they were working on main
frames. Maybe now more insight into the sounds 
should provide a more insightful overall music. 
Koenigsberg accomplishes this in the aforemen
tioned tracks, but seems to fall away from it in the 
fascination of the discovery of the sound. What the 
hell, give him a lis
ten. After all, hes 
from CMU.
courtesy of Christopher Koenigsberg 
The CD cover of Brains.
II
Brains 
rates 21/2 out 
of 4 notes
682-7272
>
_ LARGE iIZZA WIr 
ONE rOiiING
+ TAX
LARGE
ONE I0iiING EAC
CALL US FOR LARGE ORDERS FOR YOUR GROUP OR ORGANIZATION. WE CAN HANDLE 
ANY SIZE ORDER AND DELIVER IT TO YOUR MEETING PLACE. ORDER FOUR OR MORE LARGE ONE TOPPING PIZZAS AND GET THEM FOR ONLY $5.00 EACH PLUS TAX.
CONGRHTULRTIONS! I
to the members of the Class of '94 who will begin 
their careers with the leaders in business 
integration consulting:
Leslie Anderson 
Mary Duncan 
Asheesh Gupta 
Michael Lim 
Frank Lin 
Steve Maaseide
Matthew Newman 
Arun Prasad 
Hollis Schuler 
David Shapiro 
Laurence Silverman 
Rebecca Tonsetic
They will join over 70 other Carnegie Mellon 
alumni throughout the world bringing integrated 
business solutions to Andersen Consulting clients.
Andersen Consulting welcomes these students 
and looks forward to hiring even more of 
Carnegie Mellon's best ana brightest next year.
Enjoy your Summer and look for us and these 
new alumni at our information session next Fall.
rEevoershrotApmru
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO, S.C.
BOTTLE CAPS + SEAT BELT CLASPS t INNER TUBE TIRErE CREEN BELrr yV^ ' ? yys_m
;
BOTTLE CAPSI
X
INNER TUBE TIRE
SEAT BELT CLASPS
NOW YOU CAN HAVE FASHION AND FUNCTION 
WITH A CONSCIENCE IN A PRICE RANGE THAT EVEN 
LEONA WOULD JUMP AT; INTRODUCING,
THE GREEN BELT
BY BANKP & BLAND
TO ORDER CALL 1-800-2-EC0L0CY
326465
OR SEND CHECK OR MONEYORDER
TO: THE GREEN BELT 
P.O. BOX #10207 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15232
--------------------BE SURE TO INDICATE SIZE------------------
XS SM M L XL XXL
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
QUANTITY PRICE POSTAGE TOTAL PRICE
X I $19-98 I + I $2-50

---------------------------------------------------

Sherri Johnson and Don Alexander have 
works on display at the Forbes Gallery through 
Sunday. Call 268-2081 for gallery hours or infor
mation. The reception will be Friday at 7 pm. 
Terrence Ryan, Ryan Kirk, and Clinton Golden 
will have works on display May 3-8.
Uncovering Pittsburgh: Architectural Dia
logues, an exhibition by Jacek Dominiczak and 
Laura Lee, will be on display at the Hewlett 
Gallery until May 15. Call Petra Fallaux at x8- 
3877 for more information and gallery hours.
FILMS
The Man Who Fell to Earth will be playing at 
DH 2210 this Thursday at 5:45, 8,10:15 pm and 
12:30 am.
Mrs. Doubtfire will play in DH 2210 Friday. 
Showtimes aie 6,8,10 pm, and midnight.
MEETINGS
Come repair, revise, and revitalize your for
eign language skills at the international lan
guage tables held daily over lunch. Sponsored by 
the Modern Languages Department, all language 
tables are held in the Graduate Student Coffee
house, with the exception of the Russian Lan
guage table, held in the Faculty Dining Room. 
Times are as follows: Tuesdays: Russkii Chas and 
La Table Franaise at 12:30 pm; Wednesdays: La 
Mesa Espaola atll:30am; Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch at 11:30 am; and Fridays: Bentoo 
Lunch o nihongo de at 12:30 pm.
The Hypnosis Research Group is sponsoring 
Learn Hypnosis and Change Your Life!, an 
ongoing workshop to learn hypnosis, relaxation, 
and meditation techniques in a group setting, on 
Mondays at 7 pm at 4836 Ellsworth Avenue. A $1 
donation is requested. Call Bill King for more 
information at 276-1768.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club holds its 
meetings Tuesdays at 6 pm in the Tartan loft. For 
more information, email db74 or jt3y.
Traditional Irish Set dancing classes take 
place every Sunday night from 7-9 pm in the 
Bellefield Building at University of Pittsburgh. 
Call 363-8686 for more information.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Wednesdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A and 
Sundays at 2 pm in Activity Room B. For more 
information, email cd2b or call x8-2151.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-denominational student study group, provides a 
weekly forum for students inquiring into the mean
ing and purpose of life. Regular meetings are held 
Tuesdays at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning, 
room 236. For more information, call 343-1907.
The Womens Center Collective holds meet
ings every Sunday at . pm in the CMU Womens 
Center. If your group is interested in using the 
center for meetings, call X8S.5l5t
Fear public speaking? Join the Whiskey Rebel
lion Toastmasters Club every first and third 
Wednesday at the Carnegie Library in Oakland 
from 7-8:30 pm. For more information, call 422- 
5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is held on 
Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the Israel room (337) at 
the Cathedral of Learning and on Thursdays in 
Skibo 201 at 8 pm. Call Rabbi Samuel Weinstein 
at 683-7770 for more information.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop, sponsored 
by the University of Pittsburgh, meets every 
Wednesday at 7 pm in the first floor conference 
room ofthe Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writers-to-be and 
includes Pitt and CMU students and alumni. For 
more information, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holdsmeetings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett 
Room. For more information, call x8-2114.
A Rational Recovery support group for those 
with alcohol or drug problems meets every Friday 
at 7:30 pm. Meetings are free and held in Room 
205 of the Wightman Community Center Build
ing in Squirrel Hill. For information on this and 
other RR meetings in the Pittsburgh area, phone 
261-5363.
The Student Environmental Action Coali
tion meets every Sunday at 4:30 at the Pennsyl
vania Environmental Resource Center located at 
the comer of Forbes and Crig, third floor. SEAC 
is composed of activists and organizers who fight 
for a greater awareness of the current state of the 
environment and for the preservation of this deli
cately balanced ecosystem. Call 681-8300for more 
information.
If you need to walk across campus late at 
night, let a trained student escort team accom
pany you. Call SafeWalk between 10 pm and 2 am 
seven nights a week at 268-SAFE (x8-7233). For 
more information, contact Ray Tseng at 682- 
3068.
Welsh language classes sponsored by the 
Celtic Society will be held in Porter Hall A19A 
on Wednesday evenings; beginners at 7:15 pm 
and advanced beginners at 8:30 pm. Call 521- 
6722 to enroll.
Women in Science meets every Wednesday at 
6:30 pm in the Womens Center. Contact Tara at 
x8-8010 or email thin with questions.
Student Alumni Relations Council meets ev
ery Wednesday at 5 pm in the Alumni House 
Conference Room, 50G7 Forbes Avenue. For more 
information, contact Kyra Salakas at XoS.067t
May 8 at 3 pm in the J. Laughlin Music Center, 
Chatham College. Joined by guest violinist Rob
ert Mealy, the ensemble will perform Italian con
certos and sonatas of the High Baroque. For 
information, call 381-9321.
Compline, Prayer at the Close of the Day, is
sung every Sunday at 9:30 pm atthe Heinz Chapel. 
For more information, call 682-6886.
NOTICES
.MUSIC
The South Hills Chorale, directed by Henry 
D. Monsch Jr. and accompianed by Helen S. 
Akers, will present a concert on Friday, May 6 and 
Saturday, May 7 at Mount Lebanon Presbyterian 
Church at 7:30 pm. General admission is $8 at the 
door. For more information, call 429-9501.
Mass Zenergy boldly goes where no club has 
gone before on Sundays at 9 pm. For more 
information and directions to the club, call 734- 
5549.
A.T.S., a rock/funk band will perform at the 
Artery in Shadyside on Saturday at 10:30 pm. 
For more information on the concert, call Kevin 
Forsythe at 241-0704. For a copy of their new 
album, Blood Drive, call (718) 768-2424.
The Pittsburgh Early Music Ensemble per
forms on Friday, May 6 at 8 pm and on Sunday,
An Eating Disorders Informational Group
has been organized in the Counseling and Devel
opment Center. Call x8-2922 for details.
Origami Fantastique, an origami exhibit by
the. members of the Origami Club of Pittsburgh' 
and the university chapter will be on display on 
the fourth floor of Hunt Library until May 31.
The International Student Organization is
having a picnic on Friday at noon between Baker 
Hall and Hunt Library.
CES, Inc. will donate $10 to Carnegie Mellon
for each student, staff, or faculty member who 
signs up for cellular phone service. Call the Alumni 
Office for more information at x8-1604.
Novelist Jamaica Kincaid will be the featured 
guest at the Carnegie Mellon Adamson Awards 
for Excellence in Writing Ceremony to be held 
Friday at 8 pm in the Adamson Wing in Baker 
Hall. Kincaid is a writer for the New Yorker and 
author of three highly acclaimed novels. The event 
is free and open to the public. Contact Lisa Lightner 
for more information at x8-3580.
Almost Midnight Breakfast, sponsored by 
the Junior Class Round Table, will be held on 
Tuesday, May 3 at 10 pm in the Tartan Grill. Free 
food will be served to students by faculty and staff.
Jewish Ethics and Economic Life will be 
presented by Dr. Meir Tamari on Sunday at 2 pm 
at Temple Sinai on Forbes Avenue. Tamari founded 
the Jerusalem Institute for Ethics, is director of 
the Center for Business Ethics of the Jerusalem 
College of Technology and is author of three books. 
A panel discussion following will feature Carn
egie Samuel Calian, PhD, President and profes* 
sor oftheology at the Pittsburgh Theological Semi
nary, the Honorable Rochelle S. Friedman, Judge 
of the Commonwealth Court of PA, and H. J. 
Zoffer, PhD., Dean of the Joseph M. Katz Gradu
ate School of Business at the University of 
Pittsburgh.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39, 
Monday through Friday. Weekend Masses are 
celebrated at 10:30 am and 8 pm every Sunday in 
the GSIA Cooper Auditorium. For more informa
tion, call the Newman Oratory Center at 681- 
3181.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday with a 
happy half hour (hors doeuvres) at 5:30 pm, 
services at 6 pm, and dinner following. RSVP by 
calling 621-8875.
Prayer at the Close of the Day, sponsored by 
the Lutheran Campus Ministry,, is held Sundays 
at 9:30 pm in the Heinz Chapel. For more informa
tion, call 682-6886.
The Church of the Ascension (Episcopal)
welcomes all students to services on Sundays 
with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college class at 9:30 
am, and morning worship at 11 am in the chapel, 
located on the comer of Ellsworth and Neville. A 
Eucharist is also held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For 
more information, contact campus minister Brian | 
VanderWel at 621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church holds wor
ship service Sundays at 11 am and college class at 
9:45 am. Shadyside College Fellowship is on Fri
days at 6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette 
Ediger at 682-4300.
SPORTS
The mens tennis team will host its last match 
tomorrow against Grove City College at 3 pm on 
the courts by Margaret Morrison.
The Catholic Alumni Club of Pittsburgh is 
sponsoring singles volleyball every Wednes
day at 8 pm at St. Edmunds Academy. Enjoy a 
rousing evening of volleyball and meet others for 
only $3. Call 766-6574 or 341-4070 for more infor
mation.
The men's and women's track teams will 
compete in the Baldwin-Wallace College Invita
tional on Saturday at 10 pm, in the University of 
Pittsburgh Invitational on May 7 at 10 am, and in 
the NCAA Championships at North Central Col
lege May 25-^28.
THEATER
RELIGION
Ecumenical Holy Communion, sponsored by 
the Episcopal and Lutheran Campus Ministries, 
is held Wednesdays at 5 pm in the Heinz Chapel.
New Hope Christian Community Church
invites all students to services on Sundays at 11 
am in the Central Christian Church located at 
134 N. Dithridge. For more information, call 621- 
6760.
Tech House hosts a weekly Bible Study at 7
pm on Thursdays. For more information, call x2- 
2484.
Flying Pig Theater is pleased to announce the 
addition of new faces to its improvisational com
pany, Reality Optional. The group will perform at 
the Artery on Saturday at 8 pm.
The City Theater presents From the Missis
sippi Delta, an autobiographical play starring 
jazz soloist and actress Etta Cox. The show will 
run through May 1. Call Sara Durkacs at 431- 
4400 for show times, tickets, and more informa
tion.
The Playhouse Junior Childrens Theatre 
Company will produce an encore production of 
Charlottes Web at Point Park Colleges Play
house beginning April 30. For more information, 
show times or to reserve a ticket, call Judith at the 
box office at 621-4445.
