Volume 90, Issue 11Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 190620 November 1995THE TARTAN
Inside
Calendar......................................L12C'assified..............................................L10
Comics....................................................L5Diversions.......................................17Forum.............................................4
Living...................................................................LISports..........................................10
Sports
Women's CC finishes 11th in 
nation  see page 10
Forum
Petting zoo now! 
 see page 5
The Tartan will not 
publish next week 
because of the 
Thanksgiving holiday.
Marriott leaving; 
CMU takes over
Pittsburgh merchants kicked off the citys holiday shopping season with Light-Up Night last Friday.
By ANGELA MOLLOY 
& YOSEF BIRNBOIM
Tartan Staffwriters
For unknown reasons, Marriott Cor
poration, CMUs primary dining con
tractor, has broken its contract with 
CMU, and by January, will no longer be 
involved in food service on campus. The 
contract was due to expire on June 30, 
2000.
They made the decision to leave and 
informed us last week, said Michael 
Murphy, dean of Student Affairs. I 
would not venture to speak to their rea
sons, although I trust they felt it was in 
the best interests of their company.
Representatives of Business Services 
and Dining Services had no comment, 
instead directing all questions to 
Murphy.
Most students wont notice any imme
diate changes next semester as CMUs 
Dining Services takes over Marriotts 
operations. During spring semester, 
prices, hours of operation, and menus 
will remain the same. We will continue 
to purchase the vast majority of our food 
and supplies from local vendors, many 
of who will remain unchanged through
this management shift, said Murphy.
No Dining Services employees will be 
replaced, although seven managers em
ploy ed by Marriott will likely be leaving.
The move by Marriott comes as Dining 
Services, facing a substantial deficit, 
works to cut costs. Murphy said this 
deficit will be paid off. Theres no need 
to attempt to eliminate the cumulative 
deficit with great haste, as modest con
tributions over the years ... will solve 
this problem without any appreciable 
impact on Dining Services, he said.
Students have voiced concerns this 
year in particular about Dining Services 
because of changes in the meal plan 
system. But Dining Services has also 
been trying to work with students in 
order to give them more for their money. 
Food carts around campus like Vie de 
France, La Prima, Wok n Roll and the 
new CKs Pretzel Works, have given 
students more options for dining.
Michael Rosenthal, head of Student 
Dormitory Councils dining committee, 
said the committee has been meeting 
with CMDS every week for the past twoand-a-halfyears. He said that currently, 
we are helping to advise on the new 
Please see MARRIOTT, page 3
Policys revision 
sparks debate
ByAMITKAR
Tartan Business Manager
CMUs Committee on Sexual 
Harassment Policy and Proce
dure is pressing ahead with 
plans to implement a revised 
sexual harassment policy by 
January, despite criticism about 
the policys application and purose.
The Universitys policy on 
sexual harassment has been 
undergoing review since Univer
sity President Robert Mehrabian 
released a new policy in Sep
tember of 1994.
The review came after the 
questions were raised about the 
policys legality and the ambi
guity of the language it was writ
ten in.
The revised policy would 
hnplicity accept the federal gov
ernments definition, and specify 
which steps supervisors and 
administrators would take to
stop harassment and discipline 
harassers.
The biggest change is the cre
ation of a fact-finding group 
made up of faculty, students, 
and staff, which would investi
gate alleged incidents of harass
ment. The committees recom
mendations would be non-binding.
Opposition to the proposed 
policy has come from several 
sources. In particular, the Na
tional Writers Union, a national 
labor union representing free
lance writers, has stated that it 
finds the policy to be prohibitive 
of free speech.
In a letter to The Tartan, Bob 
Chatelle, the unions political 
issues chair, referred to the pro
posed policy as one which, if 
enacted, would have a decided 
chilling effect on freedom of 
speech at your university. 
Chatelle did not elaborate on 
Please see REVISIONS, page 3
Trustees vote to retain president
Board lauds MehrabiarVs tenure, recommends changes
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor
The trustees voted to retain CMU president 
Robert Mehrabian, shown at Homecoming.
By GIL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
After several months of evaluation, the 
Board of Trustees voted last Monday to re
new University President Robert Mehrabians contract.
In a statement released by the boards 
Review Committee, the trustees said, The 
past five years have been positive ones for 
Carnegie Mellon, and we believe that Dr. 
Mehrabians next years with the University 
will be equally productive.
The evaluation began this year to examine 
Mehrabians last five years as CMU presi
dent. Thomas A. McConomy, chairman of 
the Board of Trustees, said that the evalua
tion wasnt unusual.
The presidential review that was con
ducted this year is not new to CMU, said 
McConomy, adding that three such reviews 
were carried out during Richard Cyerts ten
ure as president.
In fact, the evaluation was a part of the 
letter of agreement between the University 
and Dr. Mehrabian written near the begin
ning of his presidency.
This was a condition that Dr. Mehrabian 
set, as well as being the practice at Carnegie 
Mellon, because it was felt that after five 
years, a review of the presidents perfor
mance and the direction of the University 
would be in order, said McConomy.
A committee of trustees was created to set 
the criteria for the evaluation between Feb
ruary and May by studying how other uni
versities did presidential reviews. McConomy 
said the committee particularly relied on the 
guidelines provided by the Association of 
Governing Boards, an organization of col
leges and universities across the country.
In May, a seven-member review commit
tee, chaired by trustee Douglas Danforth (a 
former chairman of the Board of Trustees), 
was set up to carry out the evaluation.
While the review committee went about its 
evaluation, a parallel committee was set up 
by Faculty Senate, headed by philosophy 
professor Teddy Seidenfeld and Heinz School 
professor Patrick Larkey. The two commit
tees met on several occasions to discuss their 
results.
The trustees committee met not only with 
Please see PRESIDENT, page 3
Portrayal of African-Americans...
Panel discusses media coverage, stereotypes
By SHANNON GIBNEY
Tartan Features Editor
A panel of black radio, television, 
and newspaper journalists, and a CMU 
history professor, discussed the 
media's depiction of African-Ameri
cans last Wednesday in Hamerschlag 
Hall.
Panelists included Andrew Barnes, 
associate professor of history; Edwina 
Kaikai, metropolitan editor of the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette; Chris Moore, 
a producer at WQED-TV; Debbie 
Norrell, news anchor and talk-show 
host for WAMO-FM and WYJZ-AM; 
and Ruth Boykin, formerly associate 
director of career services for the Heinz 
School.
The issues raised during the debate 
sponsored by the BFASA (Black
Faculty and Staff Association)  fo
cused on the nature of the medias 
responsibility to inform the public and 
its role in influencing popular percep
tion.
What the media is about is manu
facturing images in peoples heads. So 
its easy for them to fall into the habit 
of relying on stereotypes. It is our duty 
as black people to say, No, this is not 
acceptable,  said Barnes.
At the Post-Gazette, I do my part to 
ensure that the news we are present
ing is as accurate as possible, said 
Kaikai. I realize that a lot of what 
people know about [African-Ameri
cans] is presented by the media. There 
is more to us than that. It is my job to 
bring that to the newsroom.
I think the media has a responsibilPlease see MEDIA, page 3
Dems battle to save direct lending
WASHINGTON, D.C., Nov. 17 (AP) 
U.S. Sen. Bill Bradley and U.S. Rep. Rob 
Andrews, two New Jersey Democratic 
supporters of a government direct lend
ing program for college students, are 
counting on President 
Clinton to preserve the sys
tem.
The Education Depart
ment says students in 48 
New Jersey colleges will 
have 73,918 direct loans by 
the end of this school year.
Direct lending is a 
Clinton-initiated student 
loan program. Under the 2- 
year-old program, students 
get their loans straight from 
the federal government.
Under the old system, a bank makes the 
loan, and the federal government merely 
guarantees repayment.
But as part of the Republican balanced-budget plan that passed the House 
on Friday and is expected to clear the 
Senate on Saturday, GOP lawmakers
fci*sr
The House had originally wanted to 
kill the program and the Senate to cap it 
at 20 percent of all student loans, but 
they compromised at a 10 percent cap. 
Direct loans now account for about 40 
percent of all volume.
Republicans say their 
proposal would save $1.6 
billion over seven years, 
and that students could 
still get guaranteed stu
dent loans through banks 
and other lenders.
Rep. Marge Roukema, RN.J., wants to phase out 
the program.
Roukema said Friday 
that it creates a new bu
reaucracy that is much 
costlier than the private sector.
Where do you get the capital base in 
the direct loan program that is set up in 
the Education Department, said 
Roukema, chairwoman of the House Fi
nancial Institutions Subcommittee. 
How do you expect the Department of
would cap the program at 10 percent of Education to work as a bank? 
all student loan volume. RoukemasaidthelOpercentcapwould
effectively lead to the elimination of the 
program.
Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, R-Kan., said 
Congress needs to cap direct lending to 
gauge a program she said would make 
the Education Department the thirdlargest consumer lender in the country.
Democrats counter that direct lending 
gets rid of the middlemen, saving money 
for students without costing taxpayers. 
They said the proposal would force out 
36 of the 48 New Jersey schools, and cost 
direct loans for 55,438 students.
Andrews, who sponsored the program 
on the House side, said the GOP pro
posal represents bankers trying to re
gain control of loans that benefit them. 
Andrews, D-Haddon Heights, said the 
old program acts as a welfare subsidy 
for banks.
Andrews and Bradley said Clinton will 
veto the latest seven-year balanced bud
get plan, also known as reconciliation.
I have no doubt the president will 
veto this bill, and the deal we get prob
ably will leave it alone, Andrews said.
Were outraged. Were apoplectic, 
Please see LENDING, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

20No 0vemvb r 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn,
Page 2...
Work, work, work..No end in sight to shutdown
WASHINGTON, D.C., Nov. 18 (AP)
 Republicans sent a new offer to the 
White House Saturday for ending the 
partial federal shutdown as a nervous 
House rebelled against GOP leaders 
and voted against taking a day off 
during the crisis.
Work, work, work, Democrats 
chanted, after they spearheaded an 
embarrassing 361-32 rejection of an 
effort by GOP leaders to formally ad
journ the chamber until Monday.
Angry Republicans who command 
the House later decided to put the 
chamber into recess until Monday 
anyway, something the majority can 
do unilaterally.
But the roll call, taken during a 
rare, raucous Saturday session, viv
idly displayed how nervous members 
of both parties are about the publics 
reaction to the five-day-old closing of 
large swaths of government. It also 
represented a Democratic attempt to 
paint Republicans as indifferent to 
the shutdown and its consequences 
for civil servants and people needing 
federal services.
Amid the tumult in the House, Re
publicans transmitted a new offer to 
the White House for ending the shut
down that beginning Tuesday idled
800,000 federal workers. President 
Clinton would have to commit to seek
ing a balanced budget in seven years 
as measured by the Congressional 
Budget Office, after thorough consultation and review by White House 
and other government and private 
experts.
That represented slight movement 
from the long-time GOP demand for a 
seven-year balanced budget using CBO 
estimates, without any outside input. 
Clinton has said he wants a longer 
timetable that uses the admin
istrations more optimistic economic 
assumptions, which would allow 
smaller spending cuts than Republi
cans want.
GOP leaders said they would dis
cuss the offer with administration of
ficials on Sunday, and agencies could 
reopen Monday if it is accepted. But 
asked whether the administration was 
likely to accept the proposal, Senate 
Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., 
said: I doubt it. Its a good offer.
White House spokesman Mike 
McCurry said administration officials 
would consider the offer overnight.
In an earlier interview with NBC 
News, Clinton said he was trying to 
figure out a way to return federal 
workers to their jobs on Monday, if I 
can find a legal way to get them back 
to work.
He also tried to drive a wedge be
tween congressional Republicans, 
blaming the crisis on the most intran
sigent members of the House and 
sayingthat Senate Republicans would 
resolve this on honorable terms if 
they were free to do it.
Utah reps husband surrenders
WASHINGTON, D.C., Nov. 18 (AP)
 After six days on the lam, the es
tranged husband of Rep. Enid Greene 
Waldholtz turned himself in for ques
tioning in what the FBI alleges is a 
$1.7 million check-kiting scheme.
Joe Waldholtzs father, Harvey, a 
dentist in Monroeville, rej oiced at news 
of his sons surrender to federal au
thorities on Friday.
But Waldholtzs wife, a first-term 
Utah Republican, accused him of fraud 
and deception. I have every confi
dence that the Department of Justice 
will get to the bottom of the fraud and 
deception he has perpetrated on me, 
my family, his family, friends and 
others, Rep. Waldholtz, 37, said in a 
statement. I know that they all share 
my hurt and sadness as we try to 
comprehend what Joe has done.
She filed for divorce Tuesday, say
ing her husband of two years was 
guilty of an incredible level of decep
tion and saying she wanted her 
maiden name back.
Waldholtz, 32, of Squirrel Hill,
walked into the U.S. attorneys office 
in Washington with his lawyer in re
sponse to a federal warrant seeking 
his arrest as a material witness in a 
grand jurys bank fraud investigation.
Waldholtz had been missing since 
last Saturday, when he left behind his 
brother-in-law and his car at Wash
ington National Airport. He was re
leased to the custody of an acquain
tance in Philadelphia.
In an affidavit, the FBI alleged 
Waldholtz was involved in the checkkiting scheme and manipulated ac
counts at two banks.
The congresswoman told authori
ties her husband may have had access 
to about $2 million when he disap
peared. Rep. Waldholtz now claims to 
have no idea where the funds are lo
cated, the affidavit said.
Sullivan ordered Waldholtz to re
turn for a hearing Wednesday to de
termine whether he will testify before 
the grand jury convening that day or 
will invoke his Fifth Amendment right 
against self-incrimination.
Pittsburgh mayor offers travel tip
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 17 (AP)Mayor 
Tom Murphy has gone a long way to save 
a buck 129 miles, in fact.
The mayor saved taxpayers $492 by 
driving to Clevelands Hopkins Interna
tional Airport and flying to Tampa Thurs
day instead of flying out of Pittsburgh 
International Airport.
The Pittsburgh airport is less than 30 
minutes away from the mayors office.
Murphys round-trip, Cleveland-toTampa fare on USAir was $286; the 
Pittsburgh fare was $778.
The mayor could have gotten a cheaper 
Pittsburgh fare if he opted to return 
Saturday, but he needed to return Fri
day for celebrations to mark the start of 
the Christmas shopping season. He was 
in Tampa for a convention regarding 
new uses for railroads rights-of-way.
Dan Onorato, chairman of City 
Councils budget committee, praised 
Murphys thriftiness.
If he went up there to save taxpayers 
money, thats fine with me. Maybe that 
will send a strong signal to USAir that 
we want some competition in this re
gion, Onorato said. The tragedy ofitis, 
to get the best deal, you have to drive two 
hours.
USAir controls nine-tenths of the gates 
at the Pittsburgh airport, its primary 
hub.
The U.S. Transportation Department 
said air fares in Pittsburgh were 30 
percent higher than those in Cleveland 
in the first three months of 1995.Polands Walesa faces tight race
WARSAW, Poland, Nov. 17 (AP)  
Ending a bitter campaign, Lech Walesa 
and his ex-Communist challenger were 
running neck and neck in final opinion 
polls Friday, two days before presiden
tial elections.
The last week of campaigning deterio
rated into a mudslinging match that 
analysts say could discourage many from 
voting and might help Walesa fight off 
Aleksander Kwasniewski.
The campaign turned sour just before 
its Nov. 5 first round, in which 
Kwasniewski barely outpolled the former 
Solidarity leader, when newspaper re
ports revealed questionable investments 
by Kwasniewskis wife.
Kwasniewski, 41, failed to report 
Jolanta Kwasniewskis shares in the 
Polisa insurance company, whose in
vestments include public funds.
In two nationally televised debates 
this week, Kwasniewski accused Walesa, 
whose Solidarity party toppled Commu
nist rule in 1989, of having an antiCommunist obsession.
Walesa, 52, pounded away at 
Kwasniewskis reconstituted party, mak
ing repeated references to the Commu
nists murders of political opponents dur
ing their 45-year rule.
A survey released Friday showed 42 
percent of Poles believe the ex-Communists in Kwasniewskis camp  which 
has dominated parliament since 1993 
are involved in financial improprieties. 
Almost three in five of the 1,311 people 
questioned in the survey by the Polish 
national television network believed the 
issue will diminish Kwasniewskis 
chances of winning on Sunday.Stadium rebuild could cost $75M
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 16 (AP)  A 
Three Rivers Stadium renovation that 
would convert fourth-level seating to 
premium lounge seats could generate 
an extra $16 million a year for the Pitts
burgh Steelers.
Stadium Authority officials said 
Thursday that construction on the first 
stage of the new luxury seats could be
gin this spring, with the first 1,000 ex
pected to be ready for the Steelers first 
exhibition game in August.
The luxury lounge boxes probably 
would sell for more than $100 per seat. 
Similar seats in Jacksonvilles newly 
renovated stadium cost $160 and gener
ate nearly as much income as the rest of 
the seats combined.
Steelers president Dan Rooney said 
last month the team doesnt necessarily 
want a new stadium and would be satis
fied with $75 million in renovations to 
Three Rivers.
Many of the boxes would be in the 
outfield area for baseball, so the lounge 
boxes would be more of a revenue source 
to the Steelers than the Pirates. To add 
higher-priced luxury seats for the Pi
rates, the Stadium Authority may build 
new field level boxes adjoining dugouts.
Three Rivers Stadium also may get 
new artificial turf and nearly 60,000 
' new seats next year. Most of the seats 
have been in place since .the stadium 
opened in 1970.
However, the Steelers probably would 
install grass if a baseball-only stadium 
is built and they are left as Three Rivers 
only occupant. The city then would likely 
turn over control of the stadium to the 
Steelers, thereby freeing the city of costly 
annual maintenance and upkeep.
With the Pirates no longer taking up 
most of the prime summertime booking 
dates, the Steelers would likely increase 
the number of non-sports events, such 
as concerts, circuses and conventions.
Smithing thrives at Illinois college
CARBONDALE, 111., Nov. 17 (AP)  
Ten applicants for a recent opening, and 
the promise of many hours of hot, sweaty, 
dirty work.
Still, there seems to be no problem 
getting students into the graduate pro
gram in blacksmithing at Southern Uli. 
nois University at Carbondale, reputed 
to be the only one of its kind in the 
country.
Right now, iron work is an up amj 
coming thing, says Arthur Johns of 
Detroit, who is pursuing a master of fine 
arts degree in blacksmithing.
Art and design professor Brent Kington 
started the program in 1975. Class size 
is limited to four students, and the num- y 
ber of applicants has doubled in 10 years, 
he said. The average age of students is 
about 35.
Ornamental and recreational 
blacksmithing is becoming immensely 
popular, said James Holman of the 
National Blacksmiths and Welders As
sociation.
And there is money to be found in the| 
red-hot glow of the seven forges that; 
make up SIUs cavernous smithy.
Kington said most of his graduates go' 
into business for themselves either mat; 
ing wrought-iron furniture, ornamental 
gates and other things or choosing tq' 
focus on sculptures, which are becoir 
popular.
Other grads specialize in restoration; 
work for museums or even the govern-; 
ment. One alumnus made $145,000 in,' 
one year, and the going rate for commis-j 
sions is about $40 an hour, Kington said.;
One trend that Kington and others; 
have noticed is that more architects are 
hiring blacksmiths to spice up their build-; 
ings. Also, more women are getting in
volved: three have gone through SIUs 
program.
On a typical day in the SIU smithy; 
several grimy men pound away at glow
ing pieces of fiery metal theyve slapped 
on huge anvils. Some students slip their 
work under one of two pneumatic ham
mers that punch away like drills.
Its tough work. Most blacksmiths 
wouldnt have it any other way.
You start with this rigid) cold mate
rial, Kington said. You then mold it; 
move it and make it into anything you 
can conceive. Thats pretty mystical and 
very powerful. I think thats part of what 
people respond to.McClatchy seals Pirates purchase
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 16 (AP)Kevin 
McClatchy finally has an agreement t(> 
buy the Pittsburgh Pirates, and he could 
be approved as the new owner by mid 
January. McClatchy, of Sacramento/ 
Calif., already has a signed agreement 
with the city requiring financing for the 
ballpark to be in place by Nov. 1,1998. If 
the funding isnt finalized, and the club 
has lost $15 million, he would be free to. 
move it elsewhere. McClatchy still must 
be approved by major league club own' 
ers, probably at their January meetings.)
Unless last-minute problems develop] 
ratification became a near-certaint)j 
when he was approved by the eightj 
member ownership committee last week
Four-Day Forecast
MondayWarmer and partly 
cloudy. Daytime high 
In the upper 40s, 
evening lows near 
the freezing mark.
TuesdayHigh in the mid-30s, 
low in the upper 20s. 
Forty percent chance 
of snow showers 
throughout the day.
WednesdayPartly cloudy, snow 
flurries likely. High In 
the upper 30s, low 
near 25.
Thursday
Partly cloudy; low in 
the upper 20s, high 
in the mld-30s.
Carnegie Almanac
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, Nov. 20,1945: 
Break out the Kiltie Band and 
strike up the opening bars of 
Fight for the glory of Carnegie, 
for here is that official announce
ment you rah-rah collegians have 
dreamed about, said The Car
negie Tartan. The Athletic Board 
of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology has definitely decided to 
resume Varsity Football in 1946.
Football was discontinued dur
ing the war because of a shortage 
of players and resources. But with 
the surrender of Japan, Tech was 
eager to get back to its winning 
ways.
Not everything was beer and 
skittles, though. Sadness comes 
from the release of the statement 
that the Tartans will not play 
Pitt next year, continued the 
article. It is quite probable that 
some time will elapse before Beat 
Pitt again becomes the campus 
watchword.
25 YEARS AGO, Nov. 19,1970: 
Canadian journalist Douglas 
Mason Fisher, on campus to speak 
to a group of C-MU students, 
called the state of Canada rather 
frightening. Fishers talk cen
tered primarily on the move by 
Quebec separatists to gain their 
independence.
Canada historically has had 
two constant concerns, said 
Fisher, reported The Tartan. 
First what to do about America 
 how to keep from being domi
nated by her in trade and in cul
ture. And second, what to do about 
French Canadians.
If they want to separate peace
fully and through legislation, we 
wont put up a fuss, said Fisher. 
We wont stop them.
10 YEARS AGO, Nov. 19,1985: 
Standing room and idle bartend
ers were both hard to find when 
CMUs student pub, Scotland 
Yard, opened this weekend, 
wrote Tartan News Editor Karen 
Gray. Students sampled non-alcoholic drinks and platters from 
Scotland Yards menu, and for 
the most part, commented favor
ably on the decor, which features 
two massive Scottish gazebos for 
booth seating and a number of 
historical photographs.
You dont feel like youre in 
Skibo anymore, said grad stu
dent Adam Stoller.
Live entertainment included a 
jazz trio, a juggler, and a magiFIVE YEARS AGO, Nov. I9j 
1990: The CMU Philharmoniij 
was forced to cancel a trip t<| 
Europe when conductor Yladmiij 
Delman fell ill.
The 28 students and sever 
alumni in the orchestra had then 
hopes dashed when the Music 
Department announced that 
Delmans doctors had told him. 
that he was too sick to make the 
trip.
If everything goes well, sail 
department head Marilyn Taf 
Thomas, the project will be 
started again next year.
Compiled by;
JASON TOGYER
The Tartan will celebrate its 90th anniversary in 1996. Here's the paper's 1969 flag.

---------------------------------------------------

0No 0vemvb r 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn,c
President gets trustees thumbs up
PRESIDENT, from page 1
faculty, but also with other trustees, with 
major donors, alumni, civic leaders in the 
Pittsburgh area, [and] members of the 
faculty or administration that have left 
the University in the past year, said 
McConomy. They met with all of the 
administrative officers of the University 
and met with each of the deans.
In all, the trustees committee inter
viewed more than 80 people.
In addition to the interviews, the comjnittee used quantitative criteria as well. 
These included attrition rate (drop-out), 
student selectivity, endowment perfor
mance, and University ranking.
The attrition rate dropped from 15.5 
percent for the class of 1994 to 10.3 per
cent for the class of 1997.
Average SAT scores rose from 1205 in 
1990 to 1237 in 1995. Application also 
rose during this period, allowing for 
greater admissions selectivity.
The endowment also grew by over 50 
percent from 1990 until today  from 
$299 million in 1990 to $454 million. 
The increase, said McConomy, came 
despite substantial withdrawals from 
the endowment to fund the ongoing op
eration of the University.
The University is ranked, [and] con
tinues to be ranked, among the top 25 
undergraduate universities in the coun
try, he said, [and] particular schools 
and departments were ranked very high 
in their special areas of focus.
The committee also praised the fact 
that a number of new buildings have 
been completed in the last five years 
and several more are under construc
tion.
While giving a stamp of approval for 
Mehrabians policies and achievements, 
the committee did have some recom
mendations.
McConomy said that one of these rec
ommendations was to increase staffing 
within the administration to free some 
of Dr. Mehrabians time and some of the 
provosts time.
The committee felt this would free up 
the presidents time for more informal 
contacts within the University.
It was felt that it was particularly 
important that some of his time be freed 
up now, because the University is about 
to begin the Campaign for Carnegie 
Mellon, said McConomy.
The Campaign, a major development 
effort for the endowment, is expected to 
occupy much of Mehrabians time.
As to a future presidential evaluation, 
McConomy said, This is a kind of once 
every five years event, which would put 
the next review sometime around the 
year 2000.
Mehrabian was out of town, and could 
not be reached for comment before press 
time.
After this semester...
Marriott drops CMU
MARRIOTT, from page 1
system. Rosenthal said that in the 
long run, there will be a much better 
dining plan for everyone on campus. 
... The administration is responding 
to-student needs and requests.
I think that it is unfortunate that 
Marriott has to leave so suddenly, 
said Student Government President 
Gina Schuyler. She said that several 
problems, including the large debt, 
have made it a reasonable decision. 
As for food availability, Murphy s aid 
the winter break schedule has not 
been determined.
For Thanksgiving, students who are 
staying on campus will have several 
options. Wok n Roll and other dining
cart locations (except La Prima in CFA 
and Wean) will be open on Wednes
day. All other dining areas on campus 
will be closed Wednesday throughSaturday.
Annette Allison, director of CMU 
Contracted Services, and Allison Riley, 
assistant director of Residence Life, 
proposed an idea to help students get 
through the break.
[Students] can stop in the contract 
card office and get a temporary card 
showing that they have an express 
balance, said Murphy.
The temporary cards will be accepted 
at both the Yum Wok location on Craig 
Street and at the Vie de France loca
tion on Forbes Avenue in Squirrel Hill.
In budget battle...
Clinton lending 
plan under fire
LENDING, from page 1
Bradley spokeswoman Vicki Streitfeld said of 
the proposed cap. He really thinks its going to 
be one of Clintons highest priorities when it 
comes to reconciliation.
Stephen Rouff, associate director of financial 
aid at Rutgers University, said direct lending 
has made student loans more efficient. He said 
before joining direct lending, Rutgers dealt 
with 282 banks and 34 state loan guarantors.
Everything can be handled by one office, 
said Eric Glass, a Rutgers senior. Under the 
old program, the money was always late and 
the check-signing process was arduous. The 
lines of students waiting to have checks pro
cessed were ridiculous.
Panel focuses on media coverage of African-Americans
MEDIA, from page 1
ity in its portrayal of anyone: women, minorities, 
gays  [members of] any community. Media con
sumers have to be responsible too. Theres a lot of 
power in the images. We as consumers have the 
responsibility to search for the truth, said Moore.
Talk shows are the worst. I hear more misinfor
mation from them than from anywhere else. You 
have to be well-read and knowledgeable. You have 
to know that the electronic media is probably going 
to be incorrect because of the pressure to get the 
information out as soon as possible, whether they 
have the whole story or not.
Panel members fielded questions concerning how 
the media chooses which events are news-worthy.
I do stories that are very specific to the demo
graphics of the people that are listening, said 
WAMOs Norrell. News for us is sometimes not 
news to other people. Its news that you wont hear 
anywhere else than WAMO  its news that you 
need to know.
Uppermost is conveying information that we 
feel that you, the reader, needs to know, said 
Kaikai, who listed news about education, health, 
welfare, and government programs and services, 
and if the public trust is being violated in some 
way, as topics that you need to know.
The audience, made up of members of the CMU 
community, journalists, and Pittsburgh residents, 
also asked panelists if they believed that the media 
is slanted or biased in their reporting.
We all have our opinions, but as news journal
ists our opinions should not be in the piece, said 
Kaikai. A good ... journalist will get information 
from a variety of sources to get the whole picture. 
...We dont always get the whole truth, but the 
people on the other side dont always want to talk 
to us. Were working with a deadline, and weve got 
to print what we know.
I cant think of a time when the media hasnt 
been slanted, said CMUs Barnes. To ask that 
question is to ignore the way it is. What you can do 
is say I dont find this slant acceptable. But you
cant change it, thats the nature of the beast. 
One of the most charged issues speakers ad
dressed was the medias role in creating and per
petuating racial stereotypes.
Weve all dealt with the condition of being an 
exception, Barnes said. But youve got to break 
the stereotypes. This is not an easy process. Youve 
got to start thinking in the broader picture ofhow 
is this story fitting into the broader picture in 
which these people are a part of?
Thats where the real tension is occurring. The 
real challenge is to stop being exceptions and start 
being the rule.
WQEDs Moore said that the media can be an 
agent of change by mirroring whats happening in 
the community more accurately.
Black folks are not the only group that we need 
to focus on, he said. Its not going to happen 
overnight, just as these perceptions were not cre
ated overnight.
Barnes said that similar discussions are planned 
for the future.Faculty Senate set to debate changes to CMUs sexual harassment policy
REVISIONS, from page 1
what parts of the policy would affect 
freedom of speech.
In response, mathematics professor 
Juan Schaffer, chair of the committee 
that has been working on the revisions, 
says that the University has adopted 
the federal Equal Employment Oppor
tunities Commissions (EEOC) defini
tion of sexual harassment and is there
fore, bound by its language.
Schaffer admitted that some of the 
language in the EEOCs definition is 
questionable but added that the juris
prudence of what constitutes sexual ha
rassment is in full flight in the federal 
courts.
Schaffer said that the University has 
not and will not expand on the EEOC 
definition, so that the campus commu
nity will be bound by the federal laniage.
This opinion was repeated by Donna 
Riley, an EPP graduate student and a
member of the committee.
A lot of people on this campus are 
under the misconception that we have 
changed the definition of sexual harass
ment, said Riley, contending that the 
only real changes are to the details of the 
formal procedures for dealing with alle
gations of sexual harassment.
Riley said that since, in her estima
tion, 95 percent of the cases will be dealt 
with informally, this isnt a cause for 
concern.
However, Erik Altmann, a CS gradu
ate student, said this fact is a cause for 
concern, especially for potential victims 
of false, frivolous or malicious allega
tions. Altmann declined to be inter
viewed, but said that his position was 
explained on his World Wide Web page.
In his on-line analysis of CMUs pro
posed policy, Altmann likened the fact
finding committee to the quasi-autonomous legal bodies known as Star Cham
bers which became notorious in 17th
Century Britain as suppressive tools of 
the ruling families. He said the name 
Star Chamber has become synonymous 
with secret, irresponsible court proceed
ings.
In this concern, Altmann, who had a 
University Disciplinary Committee ha
rassment charge against him thrown 
out, is joined by Chatelle, who Wrote 
that he finds the institution of inquisi
tors, witch hunters, star chambers, and 
kangaroo courts most alarming.
This person [Altmann] had some kind 
of ax to grind, plus he wasnt really 
aware of the history of this process, said 
Schaffer.
Schaffer said that new versions of the 
policy give the fact-finding committee 
less of a say in the final evaluation of an 
allegation of sexual harassment.
Schaffer said 
that many of the 
policys opponents 
may have been vic
tims of poorly-written sexual harass
ment policies in the past.
If you have been the object of an 
accusation and the matter has not been 
resolved in a reasonable manner, you 
have every right to suspect that that 
would continue, he said. I am not say
ing that there isnt a point there. In fact, 
I invited these people to provide us with 
language that would address that. 
Schaffer also said that he considered 
CMUs commitment to protecting the 
rights of the accused as contractual 
and actionable.
He said that the fairness of any inves
tigation of sexual harassment needs to 
be treated carefully within the context 
of the balance of intimidation.
The sociological fact of the matter is 
that the intimidation [from the accused]
is much greater on the accusers, said 
Schaffer.
Both Altmann and Schaffer agree that 
the question of whether or not sexual 
harassment deserves special treatment 
is a legitimate one. In his on-line analy
sis, Altmann asks, Is sexual harass
ment so large a problem here, and so 
categorically different from all other 
kinds of social problems that we need 
such a system?
One of the problems with ... federal 
intrusion is that sexual harassment is 
not ... sticking out as a much more 
heinous behavior than so many others 
for which we do not employ policies, 
said Schaffer.
The revised policy will be debated at 
the next Faculty Senate meeting on Nov. 
30. The meeting is open to the public.

1%
Exams, shopping and holiday 
parties...what a crazy time of the 
year! Keep it all together with a 
w pager from Metrocall.
Pacing# include*.
A new Motorola Renegade numeric paer, available in Blaclc and Clear. 
Three months of reliable local pacing service with wide area coverage. 
Three months of Metromessage Voice Messaging with notification.412-920-2800METCOGML
America s Wireless Massaging Network
The right placefor you.
D
eradyne is the right place for people 
like Regan Mills. Its a stimulating 
environment that challenges people every 
day. Youre free to do the things you think 
need to be done, with a minimum of 
rules, regulations, and bureaucracy. We 
want people who don't need to be led by 
the hand. We want talented, bright people 
with new ideas and the initiative to give 
those ideas a shot
Youll have plenty of opportunity at 
Teradyne. We're an $800 million electron
ics company that competes in the global 
market, working with the world's largest 
companies. Our technology is unmatched," 
and our commitment to Total Quality 
Management is unwavering. In other 
words, were big... but not too big!
If you want to learn more about your 
place at Teradyne, visit your Career 
Services Office or check out our home 
page on the Internets World Wide Web at 
http://www.teradyne.com
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University20 November 1995
Faculty evaluations 
need follow-through
Its the last five minutes of your 
class, and your professor has left 
the room because youre filling 
out mid-semester evaluations. We 
all look at them; some of us take 
them seriously, others toss them 
in the trash. Those that fill them 
out feel an obligation to either 
give the professor honest input on 
his or her teaching, or they take 
the opportunity to tell their pro
fessor (anonymously) what a joke 
their class is. But to what avail is 
all of this done?
Members of every department 
reassure students each term that 
filling out the mid-semester evalu
ations provides positive feedback 
for the professor and teaching 
assistants in their ability to ad
minister the class. But do profes
sors actually look at the reviews? 
The answer is not as simple as yes 
or no.
It seems as though certain de
partments do take the evalua
tions seriously. The physics de
partment, for instance, has insti
tuted team teaching for an intro
ductory course as a result of the 
scores individual professors have 
received. In this situation, a 
younger professor is teamed with 
an older professor who has taught 
the course before; they provide 
feedback not only on the class in 
general, but on each others teach
ing methods.
Other departments dont seem 
to respond to the input of stu
dents. The computer science de
partment has continued to hire 
the same instructor for one of its 
introductory courses for the last 
few semesters. This course hap
pens to be mandatory for many 
students across a variety of ma
jors. Although the scores for this 
course are consistently low se
mester after semester, the same 
professor is re-appointed.
Many students dont know 
that the results from mid-se
mester evaluations are posted 
on the Internet. After logging 
into UNIX, all you have to do is 
type fee [faculty course evalu
ation] to view many semesters 
of student assessments, and in 
some cases, years worth. Per
haps these evaluations should 
be posted in other locations as 
well so that students may see 
how others have rated particu
lar professors.
While a few departments seem 
to be stacking their introduc
tory courses with new styles of 
teaching or new professors, the 
majority are not. With one of 
the lowest retention rates in the 
country amid schools of our class 
and caliber, Carnegie Mellon 
cant afford not to listen to its 
students on this issue. Some 
students may fail out of the col
lege because of lack of effort; 
but, it only seems to follow that 
some ofthem may have acquired 
laziness because of poor profes
sors.
Faculty Course Evaluations 
are a valuable service to both 
students and professor in that 
they provide academic feedback, 
both positive and negative. How
ever, they are not functioning at 
an evaluative level.
We challenge this University 
to design a better method of 
taking students input into con
sideration when scheduling pro
fessors for the next academic 
year.
Students require more 
non-major choices
By the end of our senior years in 
high school, we probably all had 
finished the twenty-questions 
game thats required in choosing 
a college that matches our aca
demic and social tendencies. 
These' are two seemingly diver
gent ideas, but are connected in 
many ways. When we figured out 
who we were incollege,we wanted 
a place that would help us find 
out how to become what we were. 
However, most of us werent cliqu
ish, intellectually focused malcon
tents. But the school we chose 
seems to want us to be.
Ideally you chose your major, 
take your classes, do well, and 
leave a better person. But all work 
and no intellectual expansion 
makes Jack or Jill a dull person. 
We need to be able to take classes 
outside of our majors. Creative 
writers should take design classes 
in order to learn how to layout 
their work. Science majors should 
take philosophy and ethics classes 
to know just when to stop making 
many-headed salamanders. 
Drama students should take com
puter courses just so they know 
what those shiny boxes on their 
agents desk can really do. But 
our Carnegie Mellon does not con
cur.
For example, few design classes 
are offered for non-majors this 
Spring semester. And, when they
PLSE DffcSlT 
EVALUATIONS 
UCKE =>
Letters to the Editor
Reader offended 
by coarse story
Editor:
First off, let me just 
say that as fresh as 
anything with the
Student Centtr Room 10
words ass trigger in Ltt T tO
it would seem to be, the Editor 
we have a few con
cerns as to the validity of its message 
and usefulness inThe Tartan.
We well begin with problems of taste. 
When one is still using slang picked up 
in junior high school to discuss an event 
containing sexual incidents, chances are 
that that person is probably not the 
chosen one for journalistic ventures.
Dont get me wrong, Im up for a good 
laugh anytime, I dont quite think this 
column by Douglas Howe (Expatriate 
relates tale of sorrow, woe,11/13/95) 
falls into that realm of fun or any
time.
I dont care what you eat, but I like to 
keep my menu private, and so should
the writer of this story. While appropri
ate between friends, this story had dubi
ous merit on the Forum page.
The tale of a young mans first sexual 
experience gone awry is a classic rite-ofpassage legend. Sexual mishaps must 
be laughed at. How else do you handle 
it? Look at the some of the stories con
tained in Chaucers Canterbury Tales.
This ribald classic was funny, but 
please note that when Chaucer wanted 
to be tasteful, he was able to draw on a 
vocabulary that enabled him to tell a 
story like an adult. Compare Chaucers 
poetry to Douglas Howes story and you 
will see a great difference.
If, in this authors best attempt to not 
be graphic yet, you say someone wants 
it up the rear and call a story The Ass 
Trigger, one may want to reconsider 
ones use of language.
If that is what he wishes to say and 
how he wishes to say it, please dont let 
us believe it is his best attempt to be 
tactful. We were not offended by his 
story, but only surprised at its crass 
nature.
We just want me make it clear that 
when graphically tell a story of anal 
intercourse resulting in a purging of 
emotions, as well as everything else, 
telling us the moral that Mr. Howe con
cluded with is rather unnecessary. It is 
like telling a story of a man who shoots 
himself in the head and saying the moral 
is that if you shoot yourself in the head, 
you may experience a high dry cleaning 
bill.
I think we could have inferred that 
much, but I dont want to speak for 
everyone.
All in all we can argue that The Ass 
Trigger was a special story.
However, printing it in a newspaper 
is kind of like putting an elevator in an 
outhouse: it gets you nowhere fast.
Lou Bojarski 
Junior 
CivE
Will Newton 
Senior 
History
were offered in other semesters, 
they met at a period from 9 am 
toll am, a time that most other 
students are taking their core 
classes. While it is understood 
that the administration cannot 
please all of the people all of the 
time, it can, at least, consider 
that people want to move out
side of their majors.
As in nature, cross-pollination 
is an important concept. With
out bees to carry pollen from 
plant to plant, diversification 
cannot occur. And, concurrently, 
varied classes allow students to 
become fuller scholars. We dont 
need a bunch of engineers who 
cant'write a sonnet. We dont 
need history majors who cant 
use a database. While we are 
learning to be who we are, we 
are not all rigid automatons con
suming our allotted classes like 
candy. We are choosy consum
ers, and deserve to be treated as 
such.
Departments should provide 
more courses for non-majors so 
that each of us can get a more 
balanced, rounded education. 
This may be the sole chance 
many of us have to take courses 
that relate to our majors and 
fields ofwork.Instead of setting 
a narrow focus on our academic 
coursework, lets diversify and 
complement what we learn here.
Affirmative Action good in spirit, poor in actuality, says columnist
S'.
James Stepanek
Okay, last week I gave the back
ground of that current villain of race 
relations, Affirmative Action.
Now this week Im going to explain 
its insidious nature.
Affirmative Action, as Ive said be
fore, is merely a negative reaction. It is 
an attempt to make two wrongs into a 
right.
The concept that discriminating in a 
positive way will help society is at 
its heart, along with the assumption 
that racism is the cause of all wrongs 
to certain groups.
What Affirmative Action really manunderstand the problem. Affirmative Ac
tion is simply a combination of mildlydisguised racism on the part of white 
liberals (blacks need help, they cant 
succeed without it), and a blatantly 
accepted means of revenge for past 
wrongs embraced by minority groups.
The insult inherent in Affirmative Ac
tion was clearly demonstrated in a speech 
by former Rutgers President Francis 
Lawrence, a rigorous proponent of the 
program.
He explained that entrance quotas 
were necessary because blacks had ge
netic disadvantages which prevent them 
from being effective scholars.
The second justification is demon
strated in the words of federal judge 
Marilyn Patel, addressing white male 
fire fighters who were denied promo
tions  Others have suffered, so you 
must suffer. Dont both of these sound 
like rather infantile justifications forages to say is that certain groups need
a handout. It blames this on racism, of such a wide-reaching program? 
course, but since the laws which allow One of the cores of Affirmative Action 
for prosecution of racism and discrimi- is disparate impact, 
nation are quite explicit,
this justification falls 
rather flat.
What it really amounts 
to is a case in which cer
tain groups essentially 
accede to stereotypes of 
inferiority to lay claim 
to goodies provided by 
government mandate.
It is truly a demean
ing program for all of ^ 
those involved, both the recipients and 
the trustees.
How about this quote People are 
competing very well on their own with
out preferred programs, and that car
ries the burden of people saying they 
got there by preference. It is time that 
we allow those people to walk with 
dignity.
"There would be this horde of blue
skinned people who couldnt read, add, 
or even employ rudimentary reasoning 
skills, and yet they would be consid
ered a valid choice for a given postion... 
hiring nad admissions.
Companies would be required to 
hire a certain percentage of these 
blue-skinned folks to compensate for 
past disparities and to bring repre
sentation up to the levels found in the 
general populace.
The government would essentially 
be encouraging a disregard for educa
tion and standards. They would be 
treating these people as if they faced 
no consequences of their actions, as 
dire as they might be.
Now what if someone dared to com
ment on this situation?
Pointing out how the system both 
hurt the economic well-being of soci
ety by virtue of making the hiring of 
unqualified workers a requirement 
and perpetuated the disparities be
tween groups by not encouraging edu
cation on the part of the group is not 
looked upon kindly by most people. 
This person would be told he or she 
was discriminating against this blue 
minority. He would be labeled a bigot 
and a racist.
This is exactly 
what happens in 
todays world. Any
one who dares to 
question the tenets 
of Affirmative Ac
tion is tarred with 
the racist brush, no 
matter how unrea
sonable this label is. 
^m Affirmative Ac
tion is not even particularly useful to 
those who would most use it.
This, as I explained last column, is the 
notion that any criterion in hiring which 
can have a bad effect on a minority It doesnt really do diddly for the 
group, even if there is no racist intent in needy of the inner cities. It mostly 
the requirement, is discriminatory. just affects middle class individuals 
If, for example, a group of blue-skinned from minority groups.
people centrally believed that school is a 
useless concept and that everything you 
need to know you learned in kindergarThis was from Ward Connely, one of ten (wasnt that a book?), Affirmative
the Regents of the University of Cali
fornia, a successful businessman, and 
a black man.
Try another one  Affirmative Ac
tion is demeaning in many ways, and 
even those who support it would find it 
insulting if told that the reason they 
have a job is because of Affirmative 
Action.
This was from Walter Williams, a
Action would prohibit employers from 
ever requiring an education as a condi
tion for employment since this would 
have a disparate impact on these people.
There would be a horde of blue
skinned people who couldnt write, read, 
add, or even employ rudimentary rea
soning skills.
However, these same blue-skinned
people would be considered just as valid 
popular columnist and professor of a choice for a given position as people 
economics at George Mason Univer- with a proper education, 
sity, who also happens to be black. To apply Affirmative Action even furThese are both notable men who ther, they would be given preferences in
Isa wealthy African-American more 
in need of a hiring preference than 
some poor white man from an innercity slum?
Is a son of a hispanic doctor more 
worthy of a slot at a good college than 
the son of Korean immigrant shop
keepers?
Only a truly cynical individual 
would make the case that the pro
tected groups in the above categories 
are more deserving.
James Stepanek is a graduate stu
dent in MSE. The blue people he men
tions do not exist, except in comic 
books. He welcomes any responsible 
replies to his columns.

---------------------------------------------------

0No 0vemvb r 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn,,
Writer calls for quality in national newspapers
^IVIaureej^lcGranagf^
Personally, I find the crucial 
role that journalists play in our 
everyday lives easy to forget. 
Apathy, of course, is partly the 
cause: If I made it a priority each 
morning or evening to find out 
exactly what is happening in the 
world (or my own backyard), I 
would not overlook the press. I 
would not question its purpose 
and value in society.
However, daily indifference 
aside, I have noticed that jour
nalism has some very negative 
connotations, which affect my 
regard for the media.
To begin with, I find that the 
press, a phrase referring simply 
to the network of people who make 
their living bringing us our news, 
immediately calls to mind the 
image of a mob harassing an ap
parently vulnerable person.
Though such a scene may have 
originated in television and mov
ies, it has found its own reality 
for me along with the idea that 
insensitivity and audacity char
acterizes most reporters. In addi
tion, I have somehow developed 
the notion that these same zeal
ous journalists, in their quest to
keep the public informed, often 
force people to answer questions 
and give statements only to twist 
their words in print or over the 
air waves.
The press will have a field day 
with that, I have heard people 
say, a phrase implying various 
acrobatics that go beyond honest 
reporting.
Besides the image of the re
porter, however, I also have some 
disturbing ideas regarding those 
in powerful positions (the people 
responsible for sending the obtake it with a grain of salt.
If those at the top made it there 
by questionable means, can we 
expect them to change now that 
they have arrived?
Finally, in addition to these ex
tremes, personal experience has 
made me aware of a yet third 
problem in journalism today.
Everyone must start some
where, and on a paper with sev
eral specialized sections (but 
without several specialized re
porters), aspiring writers, future 
editors, and so on often begin by
The press will have a field day with 
that,' I have heard people say, a phrase 
implying various acrobatics that go be
yond honest reporting."
noxious reporters out to badger 
and cajole the target of the week). 
Though I have a hard time be
lieving in widespread corruption, 
life itself indicates that the road 
to the top inevitably takes one 
through the muck.
In journalism that means bi
ased reporting, slanted stories, 
and downright dishonesty in re
covering unfamiliar subjects. 
Though these special interest sec
tions constitute only a small part 
of the publication, the people who 
take an interest or participate in 
them naturally wish to see them 
covered as accurately and com
pletely as possible.
Unfortunately, few reporters, 
especially novices, have adequate
laying information to millions of experience (or interest) to really 
people. Aside from disgust, such do them justice. For many, a short 
a possibility frightens me and column on local events may repgives new meaning to the phrase resent only a step towards a
higher position. Moreover, the 
lack of knowledge extends beyond 
the beginners; reporters cannot 
gain expertise in all the fields 
they will probably write about in 
the course of their careers, and 
the time constraints involved in 
publication make research diffi
cult if not impossible.
Thus, we receive inadequate 
and often uninteresting report
ing on many subjects.
I know that I cannot expect 
perfection from any human en
deavor. However, considering the 
importance of communica
tion and information, I think 
the media need to make cer
tain changes in order to in
crease the honesty and ef
fectiveness of that commu
nication.
Ambitious journalists 
== must remember that they 
do have a basic responsibil
ity to inform that supersedes their 
prerogative to sell the most pa
pers or evoke response. I, too, 
want to read interesting articles 
but not at the expense of truth. 
Also, their responsibility to the 
public does not, in my opinion, 
justify obnoxious and insensitive 
behavior. Though necessary to 
some extent, aggressiveness 
yields few results beyond a cer
tain point and tends to give a 
negative impression of both the 
press and their quest to the
very people they are attempting 
to inform.
Last, but not least, I would en
courage journalists to research 
any topic on which they write; in 
addition to the facts, one might 
want to read a short account or 
interview someone who has had a 
personal experience and ask for 
that individualized input. Such 
activities do not consume much 
time, and they add a whole new 
dimension to a piece on any sub
ject.
I do not recall the phrase just 
the facts ever being the motto of 
journalists. With these changes, I 
personally think the public will 
not only pay more attention to the 
news in its various forms but will 
recognize the value of the media 
in this country and in their every
day lives.
After all, as John Donne once 
said, No man is an island, and 
though I may forget or ignore them 
in frustration, I need those pa
pers and programs chronicling the 
events on the continent of which I 
am a part.
Our nations media, like its for
ests and wildlife, is an important 
resource that is now becoming 
polluted.
Maureen McGranaghan is a 
freshman creative writing major. 
She welcomes any responsible re
plies to her column.
Overwrought students require campus petting zoo
Editors Notebook
We dont need more computers.
We dont need more police officers. We 
dont need faster, better, or shinier ABM 
Mules.
What we need, gentle reader, is a petting 
zoo. Now hear me out, here: we are all on 
the verge of nervous breakdowns and ul
cers. Why drop over that brink into the 
briny deep?
Consider the average student on this 
campus: When not in their apartment or 
dorm room, working on a project or his or 
her buzz, said student is worried about 
something or other, wandering on the cut 
in a daze, and wondering where they left 
their gloves.
This must be remedied in some manner. 
The average student must be abolished. We 
need shiny happy people, here.
People who accept the hardships of life 
and the injustices doled out by
the fates and Mechanical Engi- ------------
neering professors. People would 
stop whining then, and we would 
have much less offensive graffiti.
That is why we need a petting 
zoo in the new University Cen
ter.
We need an oasis of natural 
beauty in an otherwise bleak and 
muddy place.
We need goats, little sheep, 
some chickens that wont bite us, Ca 
a funny horse that chews lots of 
hay and wears a straw hat, a nice rabbit, a 
nicer guinea pig (in a pen), and two ducks. 
We need a box of baby chicks that will grow 
to be pleasent pea hens that will wander
free in Schenley Park. We need students, 
assigned at random, to come in at 6 am 
every morning and milk the cows.
You might say, after reading my sug
gestion, that I am a dreamer, a fool lost in 
a world pastoral pleasures.
Im not.
I do as much work as you do. I get as 
stressed as you, and stay up as late as you. 
I however, would like to have a nicer time 
here. That is why we need a petting zoo.
In an earlier time, the agrarian lifestyle 
afforded fresh air, exercise, and hard work 
to the hearty farmer or farmette. In ages 
past, our ancestors kept themselves fed 
by the work of their own hands. Im not 
saying we should all become farmers. No. 
Im saying go outside occassionally. Take 
a break. Breathe in the cold air. Exercise. 
You have time, and if you dont think you 
do, set it aside. This is important.
The agrarian lifestyle is now lost to us, 
and our bodies are slowly turning to mush 
as we sit in our chairs or our floors, trying 
desperately to pass a class or the bong.
Our minds are being dulled by 
flourescents and higher learning. We are
"What we need, gentle reader, is a pet
ting zoo. Now hear me out, here: we are all 
on the verge of nervous breakdowns and 
ulcers. Why drop over that brink into the 
briny deep?
afraid of the cold, ashamed of our bodies, 
and tired all the time. You and I, gentle 
reader, are a mess.
Lets get to the heart of my suggestion.
I dont really want a petting zoo, but we 
need something like it.
We need something that will remind us 
to go outside,
----------------------------------- that what we
are all working 
for is contained 
in the beauty of 
nature and the 
spirit of the 
kindly moose.
We are all 
working to 
make the world
________________________ a better and
safer place.
However, if 
we are all convinced we will die if we dont 
do well in Calculus, this goal is lost. So 
dont pen up squirrels. Go outside and 
take a look at them. Dont go to the zoo to
Amit Kar/Tartan Business Manager 
see a tiger. Just remember that chemistry 
experiment you are working on shouldnt 
harm the tiger or anything else, for that 
matter.
When youre sitting in front of a com
puter, think of a dog you could be petting 
or a cat you could be scratching. Think of 
the fish and frogs you could be feeding. 
Think of the nature youre missing. Think 
about taking a walk.
We need to remember we are all ani
mals, and know that we are losing sight of 
our natures. So go outside for a while.
See the petting zoo that is our wild and 
wooly world. Watch a pigeon. Itll do you 
some good.
John Biggs is the Tartan Forum editor. 
He goes outside a few times a week and pets 
squirrels, even though they are skittish 
and tend to bite, not unlike some students.
A PERSONS
OPINION
3
Sure, a pool is all right, 
and there will be more din
ing facilities. But what will 
the University Center be lack
ing that the student body re
ally wants? We asked: If you 
could have anything you 
wanted in the University 
Center, what would it be?
Jim Snyder/Darkroom Manager
Michel Reid
Junior
MechE
Im torn between Six Flags 
overCMU and a big skate park.
Mina Kho
Miklane Fedorowich
Freshmen
Undecided
A Brueggers Bagels and a 
wave pool.
Subir Sinha 
Graduate Student 
Statistics
Arestaurant with good, cheap 
food. 
Snowperson
Senior
Meteorology
A walk-in freezer.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager.........Amit Kar
News Editor............Jason Togyer
Forum Editor..............John Biggs
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe
............................Matthew Solitro
Features Editor. Shannon Gibney 
Diversions Editor.... Eric Salzman
Calendar Editor..............Sharmila
Venkatasubban 
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Brockett Horne
..............................Jennifer Zieserl
Dossier Lit. Eds. Adriane Seibert
..................................Kevin Meehan
Art Co-Eds. ... Francine Gemperle
..............................Gabrien Symons
Photo Ed......Andrew McDermott
Production Mgr..............Kathy Liu
Systems Manager...........1-Ping Li
Copy Manager.............Eric Strauss
Asst. Features Ed. Jiliian Watkins 
Asst. Diversions Ed.... Ena Khan 
Asst. Prod. Mgr. ..Shantanu Rana 
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder 
Personnel Mgr......Brian Curfman
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Matt Ball, Darren Chiappetta,
Chintan Shah
Staffwriters 
Yosef Birnboim, Chris Cannon, 
Steve Charnoubi, CareyClevenger, 
Tricia Davis, Shiv Dewan, Neil 
Donnely, Gretel Gaal, Dan 
Goldwasser. Anuj Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Heinlein, David Ko
ran, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Alex 
Lewin, April C. Moate, Angela 
Molloy, Jonmichael L.T. Moy, 
Suzanne Paddock, Sudhir Reddy, 
Rick Rikoski, Rick Simmons, 
James Stepanek, Jessica Strelitz, 
Paul Tabachneck, Bill Vandeimaik, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Andrew Wang, 
Susan Watson, Bradley 
Zimmerman, Heather Zindle
Art
Mark Eggert, Karri Plotkin, Ryan 
Rhoades, Damon Wong
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Hiromi 
Hasegawa, Robert Slater, Dave 
White, Daniel Yauger, Mike Yeh, 
S. Hyun Yim
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Jaroslav 
Delapedraja, Josh Freeman, 
Michael Howard, Sandy Lii, 
Gustavo Sganzerla, Maria Valenti, 
Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Elias Fallon, Scott Hess, Helen 
Huang, Carla Sereny
Production 
Jennifer Li, Lester Manzano, Eliza
beth Neuman
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee Cardelli, Mimi 
Cheng, Ivor Clarke, Madhav 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Win
ter Mason, Helena McGahagan, 
Victor Ortega, Catherine 
Senderling, M. J. Wilson, Elizabeth 
Zambelli
Business 
Lin Dai, Patricia DiGiuseppi, 
Stephen Hsu
Junior Staff 
Rahul Aggarwal, Kaori Aoyama, 
Diana Bartolotta, Lome Colon, 
Annemarie Devine, Ryan Donovan, 
F. Colt Foutz, Alexandra 
Grundeman, Anukul Kapoor, Hanjay 
Kim, Jay Miolla, Dizzy Murphy, Ken
neth Nainkung, Dan Rosenberg, 
Raghuram Selvaraju, Minh Tran, 
Aaron Weisberg
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie McUon Unr,ersity. It Is a weeWy newspaper published by students during mo fall and spring scmesters.at no cost to members of the University community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing. Inc. Subscriptions are waUaMo for tno semester or academic year. Tho editorial appearing at tho beginning of tho opinion section are tno official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are tho opinions of indrdcual creators. The Tartan reserves tho right to reject or ccndensc any column or political cartoon. Lotters to tha Editor arc opinions of authors who are usually, but not recossa/Uy. members of me Unhersty community. A letter Intended for publication must bo signed and Includo tho writer's address and pnone numbcf for verification, names may be withheld upon request. Tha Tartan requests that letters bo no longer rnai 500 words. Th Tartan resents the right to condense or reject any letter. Copjrlgnt 01995 by Th Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves tho right to withhold from publication any copy It deems unfit for publication. Office: Student Center Room 104 Phono: 412/268-2111Maiir.g aJd/ess: The Tartan/Bat 17/Carncge Mellon University/Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890 Funded In part by you Activities Fee.All tights reserved.Library of Congress ISSN *: 0890-3107.The Tartan is a member of the Associated Press.Ap

---------------------------------------------------

BloombergFINANCIAL MARKETS WCOMMODITIES NEWS
Were Looking for 
Tomorrows Innovators.
THE FIRM
Bloomberg L.P. is a leading financial information firm, 
providing sophisticated data and analysis to investment 
professionals and major companies around the world.
THE POSITION
Software Developers/Financial Analysts/System Programmers 
for entry-level positions in New York City and Princeton, NJ.
REQUIREMENTS
Technically oriented, BS or MS in finance, economics, computer 
science, engineering and/or mathematics background, at least 
two semesters or equivalent programming coursework and 
knowledge of C, Pascal, Fortran or similar language.
INTERESTED?
We will be recruiting at Carnegie Melon on February 1,1996. 
Contact the Career Services Office if you are interested 
in more information or would like to interview for the 
above position.
Equal Employment Opportunity Employer
HUMANITIES
----------- and------------
SOCIAL SCIENCES 
u Carnegie Mellon m 
ATTENTION: STUDENTS WHO HAVE TAKEN 
ONE OR MORE COURSES WITH AN 
H&SS FACULTY MEMBER
The H&SS Deans Office invites you to suggest names of H&SS faculty 
members for the Colleges 1995-1996 Elliott Dunlap Smith Award for 
Distinguished Teaching and Educational Service. Past winners of this 
award include:
1995 John Miller, Social and Decision Sciences 
1994 Michael West, Modern Languages 
1993 Richard Young, English 
1992 Peter Steams, History 
1991 Ann Hayes, English
1990 Margaret Clark, Psychology (1990 University Ryan Award Co-Winner) 
1989 Richard Smith, Social and Decision Sciences 
1988 Richard Schoenwald, History (1989 University Ryan Award Winner) 
1987 Joel Greenhouse, Statistics (1987 University RyanAward Winner)
1986 Ludwig Schaefer, History (1986 University RyanAward Co-Winner)
1985 Lois Fowler, English
1984 Steven Klepper, Social and Decision Sciences 
1983 Preston Covey, Philosophy
1982 Michael Weber, History (1983 University Ryan Award Winner)
1981 John R. Hayes, Psychology
1980 Granville Jones, English (1980 University RyanAward Winner)
Nominations should consist of a letter (2 pages, maximum), signed by any 
three faculty or students, submitted to Dr. Joseph Devine, Associate Dean of 
H&SS, Baker Hall 161 (e-mail address: jdOx). Nomination deadline: 
January 31,1996 . Finalists will be selected in early February 1996, and 
nominators instructed to submit full nomination packets (for which guidelines 
will be provided) by April 1,1996. A detailed description of the award criteria 
is available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center (Baker Hall 161).
Thats right, starting 
Tuesday, November 
28th, Corner Oven 
Pizza will re-open to 
give you more late 
night dining options.
Dont forget 
to check and 
see if youre 
a winner!
CMU DINING SERVICES
o T FALL
The winner of the CMDS Fall 
Sweepstakes will be posted at the 
opening of the Corner Oven - Tuesday 
November 28th in Morewood Gardens.
The Corner Oven will be open Monday through Saturday 8:00 
p.m. to Midnight and Sundays from 5:00 p.m. to Midnight.

---------------------------------------------------

FRIENDS DONT LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK.
0No 0vemvb r 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn, gDw
D^iv-erin^ The, Pe-r-fj&ct Pizza /
We accept VISA and MASTERCARD.
One 16" Extra 
Large One Topping
$7
95
I
| Additional toppings $1.00 each 
. Not valid with any other coupon 
I Valid only at participating stores
Two 14" Large 
One Topping
T
I"T
10"0ne Topping 
& 2 Cokes
$11! $5! $7
One 14" Large 
! One Topping & An 
Order of Breadsticks 99
+ Tax
I I
Additional toppings $1.00 each I (Mon. - Thurs. 11 om-4pm, 9pm-clovo) I i, , ,
Not valid with any other coupon . Additional toppings $.70 each 1'SJjP PPin9s 51.00 each
Valid only at participating stores I Not valid with any other coupon | v/^!ja 7 w arY. r coupon 
Valid only at participating storesj^ Valld on|y a* Porl'cipat.ng storesJ
{ Four CMU soccer players were named to the 
All-UAA teams last Tuesday. Senior forward 
Nicole Poisson and sophomore forward Kim 
Umeda made the womens All-UAA first team, 
land senior midfielder Jeff McJunkin and freshman forward Harry Ulrich earned positions on 
'the mens All-UAA second team.
! This is Poissons second consecutive year 
; receiving first-team honors. She was the Tartan's 
second leading scorer with 22 points (nine 
'goals, four assists). Umeda is the only sophomore named to the All-UAA squad, and she led 
the Tartan's scoring with 30 points (14 goals 
and two assists). Umeda holds the second 
highest goal total in the UAA.
\ This is McJunkins second honor, having 
been named to the All-UAA second team as a 
junior in 1993. McJunkin was out all last sea- j son due to injury. He is among the associations 
j 'leading defenders, and he tallied six points 
(one goal and four assists). Ulrich is one of the 
two freshmen who were named to the squad. 
He was the third leading goal scorer in the UAA 
with 25 points (11 goals, three assists).
; PITTSBURGH (AP)  Its not the Orange 
'Bowl, but nobody at Duquesne is complaining, 
j Duquesne (9-1) played its first postseason 
; !football game since the 1937 Orange Bowl 
when it opposed Wagner (8-1) on Saturday in 
'the ECAC Division l-AA Bowl for non-scholarship 
teams.
! College football has changed considerably 
since the Dukes defeated Mississippi. State 
13-12 in the Orange Bowl, but coach Greg 
Gattuso said it still is an exciting time for the 
Dukes.
, This bowl fits in with any big game Ive ever 
been involved with, said Gattuso, a former AllEastnose guard who played in fourwinning bowl 
games for Penn State. "This is the Sugar Bowl 
for us.
; Duquesnes basketball team is full-scholarjship and plays in the Atlantic 10 Conference, 
but its football program is strictly non-scholarship. Five of the Dukes' starters have played for 
Gattuso for seven years, starting when he 
Icoached at Seton-LaSalle High in suburban 
Pittsburgh.
j I feltthis team had the talent required to win 
the conference title, even though nobody else 
;believed us, Gattuso said of the Dukes, who 
were chosen only fifth in the Metro Atlantic 
AthleticConference preason coaches poll. "The 
key is that we believed in ourselves. '
The Rouse Family 
Arthur, Sabrina, Bobbi Lyn, 
Kari Ann, and Bret. 
Lived together; loved together. 
Killed together:
August 20,1991 
Gansevoort, NY
U J. Department o Traniportohon
Oakland/Shadyside 
443 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
Now hiring. 
Experienced pizza makers needed.
682-7272
PAPA
Columnists review sports news around globe
World Wide Sports
by Raghuram Selvaraju & 
Rahul Aggarwal
Soccer Highlights
It was an important week for Euro
pean soccer, as teams tried to qualify 
for next years European Champion
ship, to be held in England. The pri
mary games involved Holland and 
the Republic of Ireland.
Holland 3, Norway 0
Holland left the win until late in the 
game against Norway to sustain their 
chances of qualifying for Euro96. 
Clarence Seedorf put Holland ahead 
in the 49th minute after a clearance 
off the Norwegian goal line rebounded 
off him and went into the net.
Despite a few anxious moments in 
the Dutch penalty area, Youri Mulder 
and Marc Overmars ended Norways 
Euro96 qualifying campaign with 
3 in the last two minutes of the
game.
Holland will meet the Republic of 
Ireland in a playoff at Anfield, En
gland on December 13.
Portugal 3, Republic of Ireland 0 
The Republic was celebrating a place 
in the playoff, despite losing to a classier 
Portugal side  all thanks to Northern 
Irelands victory over Austria, leaving 
the Republic second in Group Six. Rui 
Costa, Helder, and Cadete scored for 
Portugal.
The following teams have qualified for 
Euro96: England (host), Romania,
France, Spain, Denmark, Sweden, Tur
key, Croatia, Italy, Czech Republic, Por
tugal, Germany, Bulgaria, Russia and 
Scotland. The Republic of Ireland and 
Holland compete for the remainingberth. 
International Friendly  England 3, 
Switzerland 1 
Terry Venables England continued 
their preparation for Euro96 with a 
good win over Switzerland. England 
fought back after conceding a goal by 
Adrian Knup. An own goal by Swiss, 
Yvan Quentin, and strikes by Teddy 
Sheringham and Steve Stone sealed the 
game.
The bookies may make England favor
ites for Euro96, but if Venables contin
ues to chop and change the squad and 
strategy as he has done during his oneyear reign, England will struggle to com
pete with the best next summer.
Cricket 
India vs. New Zealand 
India won the Three Test Series 1-0, 
with the last two rain-affected Tests 
resulting in draws. New Zealand won 
the first of the six-match, one-day series 
with a resounding eight wicket victory.
India collapsed from 159/2 to 236a/o 
(Manoj Prabhakar 83). New Zealands 
Martin Crowe, dropped four times, made 
107n.o., and he was ably assisted by 
Matthew Fleming (78n.o.). Despite this 
initial setback, expect India to win the 
series comfortably. If Sachin Tendulkar 
regains his sparkling touch and the In
dian fielders learn how to catch again, I 
cannot see New Zealand building sig
nificantly on their 1-0 lead.
Australia vs. Pakistan 
Pakistan suffered a humiliating in
nings defeat at the hands of the Austra
lians. Steve Waugh made 112n.o. out of 
Australias 463. In reply Pakistan 
crumbled to 97a/o with legspinner, Shane 
Wame, known as the Wizard of Oz, 
taking 7/23. In their second innings, 
Pakistan could only manage 240a/o 
(Aamir Sohail 99). Wame finished with 
match figures of 11/77.
Amit Kar/Tartan Business Manager
Boxing
The WBC reiterated its decision ear-' 
lier this week for its current champion 
Frank Bruno to fight Mike Tyson ii-? 
March. Former champion Lennox Lewisr. 
who lost his title to Oliver McCall, 
claiming the right to fight Bruno befor'Ci 
Tyson. He brought his case to an Amercan court, having had it dismissed iSI< 
Britain.
Tennis: ATP World Championshig?;-
Thomas Muster failed to dislodge Petef  
Sampras from the top of the ATP mens-; - 
tennis rankings on Thursday, after los
ing to Jim Courier, 6-4, 4-6, 6-4. After;' 
two losses in the round-robin stage 
the tournament, Muster, who needed tc'; 
win in Frankfurt to become number on. 
has no chance of reaching the semiff 
nals. Sampras will now remain top foi;~ 
the third consecutive year, equaling IvaK 
Lendls feat of 1987. He successfully.-- 
disposed of his main threat, Boris-* 
Becker, on Wednesday, 6-2, 7-6, 7-3>*--
Top seed Steffi Graf plays Mary Joef-^ 
Fernandez in the quarterfinals of the 
million WTA womens tennis champion^ 
ships in New York City. Kimiko DatgTc' 
plays Anke Huber in the second: 
quarterfinal. Natalia Zvereva, surprise, 
winner over Arantxa Sanchez Vicaricnlalso advanced along with ConchitaT' . 
Martinez and Gabriela Sabatini.
Raghuram Selvaraju intends to mo*-*- 
jorin biochemistry, and Rahul Aggarwajr-- 
is a junior, exchange student from UKj~- 
majoring in IM.
Panthers, Mighty Ducks shocking NHL opponents!
EXPANSION, from page 8
say that his lack of size would hinder his ability to 
make an impact in the league.
Last year, the Ducks sold out all 24 of its home 
games and this year seems to be no exception to the 
rule. With the first quarter of the season passed, the 
Ducks are in contention to make the playoffs within 
the Pacific Division, and if they continue to play the 
way they have, they will finally make it to the playoffs 
for the first time since the franchise was been estab
lished three years ago.
Talk about your modem day Cinderella story. The 
Ducks have shown that an expansion team can 
eventually thrive once it establishes itself with 
talented young players from their farm system and 
the lottery draft. These Ducks will be a team to 
watch not only now, but in future years to come.
The Ottawa Senators got to a surprising start in 
the beginning of the season, but are now struggling. 
You would think a team who has drafted some of the 
most talented young centers in Alexei Yashin, 
Alexandre Diagle, and Radek Bonk, would have no
problems scoring goals in the future.
The San Jose Sharks have struggled this year, haV^t;: 
ing only one victory notched under their belts, but tfti;; 
offensive potential is there.
The Tampa Bay Lightning are still struggling to find"; 
their identity and waiting for both Chris Gratton ancf.'L' 
Roman Hamrlik to develop.
So other hockey teams should beware. These expand 
sion teams are no longer playing like expansion teams?-*-
Jonmichael Moy is an IM/Econ double major. -
If you dont stop someone from driving drunk, whowill? Dowhatever it takes.

---------------------------------------------------

0No 0vemvb r 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn,
Browns move hurts fans, city, league
Courts evaluate move
, CLEVELAND (AP)  The 
45,000 people holding tickets 
'for the remaining Cleveland 
Browns home games will not
 receive refunds for now, but a
 judge did not rule out the possi; bility.
; A law firm representing the 
; ticketholders had not yet met 
 the technical requirement of
 proving it could administer the 
: case, Cuyahoga County ComI mon Pleas Judge Kenneth 
: Callahan ruled on Friday.
 Were disappointed, no ques: tion about it, but the fact of the 
; matter is he didnt shut the 
; door, so well keep pushing,
 said Josh Cohen, a lawyer for
fans who sued.
; Cohen said he was confident 
i the requirement would be met 
! shortly.
 In other developments:
.  An unhappy fan has moved 
 to expand the citys case to in' elude the National Football
 League and Maryland officials.
;  Lawyers for the state and a 
; Cleveland bank filed court docu ments supporting the citys law: suit against the Browns.
;  Mayor Michael R. White 
' urged fans to continue support: ing the team at remaining 
I games.
'  City officials filed a lawsuit
 asking that the name Browns
 be declared a community asset 
; that must be held in trust in 
j the city.
Callahan heard arguments 
from attorneys representing 
Daniel Roether, a Cleveland 
man who wants to expand the 
citys lawsuit to owner Art 
Modell, the NFL and the Mary
land Stadium Authority.
Roethers motion would force 
the city to add the defendants 
and raise the issue of 
Marylands alleged interference 
in a contract  the tarns lease 
at Cleveland Stadium. The mo
tion also would set damages at 
$1.9 billion.
Lawyers for the city and for the 
Browns opposed the motion.
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello 
said he was unaware of the mo
tion and could not comment. 
Maryland Stadium Authority of
fices were closed Friday evening.
Callahan said he would rule by 
November 24.
Also on Friday, Ohio Attorney 
General Betty Montgomery and 
lawyers for Ohio Savings Bank 
filed briefs to support the city 
lawsuit. Both cited a New York 
judges 1983 ruling which blocked 
plans to play several New York 
Yankees home games in Denver. .
Earlier Friday, the mayor said 
the citys efforts to prevent the 
Browns from moving could be 
hindered if fans failed to turn out 
for Sundays game.
Angry fans brought banners 
denouncing Modell to the last 
game on November 5, and fights 
broke out in the stands.
White said extra security would 
be in place, and urged fans to 
support the team.
The absolute worst thing we 
could do would be to engage in 
any action that would in any way 
have a negative impact on our 
community and our effort to save 
the Browns, White said.
The Save Our Browns com
mittee plans to distribute 70,000 
orange armbands and 70,000 
placards at a rally at downtowns 
Huntington Park two hours be
fore the game.
We ask everybody to go to the 
game to continue to show the 
NFL were the fans who count, 
said Duane Sails, co-chairman of 
the committee.
The question of the Browns 
name also continues to cause dis
agreement. City officials filed a 
lawsuit in federal court to ask 
that the name Browns be de
clared a community asset.
Browns spokesman Kevin 
Byrne said Thursday that the 
National Football League owns 
the team name. Modell has said 
that he wants to keep the name.
Gridiron Grapevine
by Steve Charnoubi
The city of Cleveland has lob
bied NFL owners, state and fed
eral lawmakers, and a judge to 
prevent the Cleveland Browns 
fropi moving to Baltimore.
Last week, owner Art Modell 
announced that he will move 
the team after this season. The 
city has filed a lawsuit to block 
the move and has asked the NFL
and support is a factor that is 
considered in the evaluation of a 
proposed team relocation.
Modell said he accepted 
Baltimores offer of a new sta
dium because his team had lost 
$21 million in the past two years. 
He said Cleveland had not re
sponded to his demand that cityowned Cleveland Stadium be 
renovated by the end of his lease 
in 1998.
White, at the petition news 
conference, said $175 million 
was committed to a renovation, 
including money from extension 
of an alcohol and cigarette tax, 
which voters approved one day 
after Modell announced the 
teams move on November 6.
Theyre going to other mayors 
and saying, We want your tax
payers money. Give us the 
money. Were going to leave 
here. Well go there. Then in a 
couple more years, were going 
to leave your city and go some
place else. 
In the past week, the Hous
ton Oilers signed an agreement 
to move to Nashville, and a 
group of northwestern Indiana 
businessmen unveiled a pro
posal to lure the Bears out of 
Chicago and into nearby Gary, 
Indiana.
The NFL is entering a new 
era of franchise free agency. No 
team is safe. Teams like the 
Chicago Bears and Cleveland
to withhold its approval of the 
deal. The city hopes at least two 
million fans will sign the peti
tion pleading to keep the team 
in the only hometown it has 
known.
The petition drive started with 
the blue-collar crowd that has 
formed the backbone of the 
Browns support since the team 
was founded in Cleveland in 
1946 and named for its first 
coach, Paul Brown.
Everyone you talk to, from 
the NFL, from the owners, from 
other cities, always say that 
Cleveland is the bedrock of foot
ball and has some of the very, 
very best fans in the entire coun
try, Mayor Michael R. White 
said.
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello 
said the extent of fan loyalty
Two state lawmakers are pre
paring legislation to block the 
teams move. However, the Leg
islature has ended its yearly ses
sion, and it would take a special 
session to consider the idea. The 
possibility of a special session is 
remote, though.
Right now it looks like theres 
not too much else Cleveland can 
do to hold on to its precious 
Browns. The city filed a suit in 
federal court contending the 
Browns name has been associ
ated with Cleveland longer than 
with its current owners, and 
cant be transferred.
White has tried appealing to 
other mayors about football 
teams relocating to new cities. 
Theyre threatening mayors, 
Chicago Mayor Richard M. Daley 
said Friday about NFL owners.
Amit Kar/Tartan Business Manager 
Browns, which have been a part 
of football as long as anybody 
can remember, are being relo
cated to the highest bidder. If 
this continues, many more 
teams will either move or 
threaten to move to a city with 
a brand-new state-of-the-art 
stadium.
This move is a tragedy for the 
citizens of Cleveland. The move 
is ripping out the heart and 
soul of the city. If the move goes 
through and the Cleveland goes 
without a football team, I would 
mark this period as the end of a 
great era in football and the 
beginning of a new era in the 
NFL.
Steve Charnoubi would sign 
any petition to keep the Browns 
in Cleveland.
Smaller CMU squad outskates Pitt in important win
jHOCKEY, from page 10
jshots on goal for the first 15 minutes. The 
panthers hadnt give up on their rough 
ways, throwing an amazingly resilient se
nior Sean Odell into the boards time and 
time again. The crowd and the bench forced 
Odell to rise and take the puck to the zone 
after every time, frustrating Pitts crash 
iline. Pitt was pounding the boards in the 
second half of the third when Garrett took 
a major slash to the chin. The crowd 
'grumbled ominously, the CMU bench was 
on its feet, but Garrett played with the 
bloody wound, a marked man, literally. 
Later, he proudly went to the EMT for 
!seven stitches.
This was heads up, smart and strong 
hockey from the Tartan squad. They 
didnt let themselves get outplayed and 
they were backed by flawless goaltending. 
In the last 11 seconds, Pitt was down by 
two players and pulled their goalie. The 
Tartans controlled the puck in their own 
zone and sent it up towards the empty 
Pitt net. Maddalena found Buck all alone 
and Buck finished off the game with a 
wrister and the goal.
Arms raised in victory, the first line 
skated into the open arms of their team
mates, ecstatic and very satisfied. The 
game ended right there. With nine sec
onds left, there was large scrum on down
by the goal involving several Pitt players 
and the officials, resulting in Pitt skat
ing off of the ice before the game was 
officially ended and a disqualification for 
one of their players. The crowd went 
nuts, seeing their team, the underdogs, 
polish off their stellar first half of the 
season with a crucial win. Kliegman 
ended up with 24 saves, Maddalena with 
two assists, Buck with a goal and an 
assist. Pitt is always CMUs roughest, 
toughest opponent, and they will face 
them again in February.
The Tartan hockey squad will be on 
break until January 19 when they face 
New York University away at New York,
and the next evening they will play at 
home against Edinboro at 8:30pm.
The CMU Hockey Club is selling raffle 
tickets for an autographed stick signed by 
the 1995-96Pittsburgh Penguins. Tickets 
are two dollars and go to support the 
teams expenses. The drawing will be held 
on December 12. They can be purchased 
from any team member or by posting to 
their bboard, emu.student.hockey. For 
more information call President / Captain 
Maddalena at 621-2218. Also, any stu
dent interested in playing in the spring 
may post or call for more information on 
club hockey activities.
College football proves more entertaining than pros
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
 More than a half century ago, a 
football team picked up and 
moved more than 60 miles. Actu
ally the entire Wake Forest cam
pus got up and went.
; This rare but shocking example 
Js now commonplace in the NFL. 
This game of musical chairs that 
NFL franchises play across 
America is just one reason that, 
for the fan at least, college foot
ball is better than the pros.
; Next year, the Cleveland 
Browns will become Baltimores. 
[Moving just like the Rams and 
Raiders did last year in leaving 
Los Angeles, like the Cardinals 
did in 1986 and the Colts did in 
1982. Houston could give their 
fans something new to boo about
when they try for Tennessee in 
98. Whats the point of getting 
season tickets when it might turn 
out to be a 200-mile commute to 
the stadium?
At Pitt stadium, and many uni
versities around the nation, you 
can get a pretty good seat for $15. 
Throw in a couple of hotdogs, 
cokes, souvenirs, and you spent 
about $30 bucks. One-hundred 
twenty dollars for a family of four. 
The average amount that a fourperson family spends at an NFL 
game is just over $200.
In college there is no free 
agency. Besides disgruntled sec
ond-string quarterbacks, football 
transfers are rare. If Jimmy is 
your favorite player and Jimmy 
is on the team this year, gradua
tion pending, Jimmy is going to 
be knocking heads for U. of State 
next year.
College players dont complain 
about fans booing them or con
tract disputes. Um coach, Im 
holding out of Spring Practice 
until I get a meal plan to go with 
my scholarship. No way, uh-uh,
The college rivalry is much 
stronger than any professional 
version. When Auburn and Ala
bama play, they play once and 
the winner gets to brag about it 
all year long. When next year 
comes around, the loser is always 
out for revenge.
College teams have bands and 
fight songs. When Notre Dame 
scores a touchdown, you hear the 
Notre Dame fight song. When 
Dallas scores a touchdown, you 
get a Chevy commercial.
During a 20-minute-long col
lege halftime, Stanfords band 
might give some social commen
tary, practicaljokes, or they might 
just play marching music. Or if 
youre watching at home you get 
highlights and updates. When 
NBC goes on their 12 minute halftime, Greg Gumbel reads off the 
scores as you watch them on the 
screen.
The dream undefeated season 
is still a reality in college. If you 
lose a game in college, say goodbye 
to your national title hopes. In 
the NFL, the best teams basi
cally throw their last game by
benching all-stars. The bottom 
teams in the NFL seem to lose on 
purpose toward the end of the 
season, racing toward that high 
draft pick. In college, the best 
upcoming players get to play for 
the top teams.
On top of all this, actually 
watching a college football game 
is more exciting. The backup 
quarterbacks for Florida and 
Colorado averaged over 450 yards 
passing and broke school records 
in their debut wins. When Troy 
Aikman or John Elway goes down, 
the backup gets booed and it be
comes a moot point as to whos 
going to win.
The players are more exciting 
on the college level. I cant even 
remember the last time a run
ning back ran for 300 yards like 
Eddie George. When pro quarter
backs run for a touchdown, its an 
accident, a fluke, or an unsatisfy
ing one yard sneak up the middle. 
Tommie Frazier has 14 rushing 
touchdowns this year.
In fact, many of the college play
ers are better than the ones in the 
NFL. Ohio States Orlando Pace
is a 320-pound freshman line
man that doesnt let anything 
get by him, including daylight.
The Jacksonville Jaguars 
quarterback gets sacked over 
four times a game and their 
quarterback is their leading 
rusher. Think they could use 
him? Illinois linebacker Kevin 
Hardy plays pass coverage, in
tercepts balls (ran one for a 
touchdown), sacks quarter
backs and uses his 240-pound 
bulk like a hammer to lead the 
team in tackles. Any defensive 
coordinator in the NFL would 
be happy to have him.
And everybody knows that the 
best quarterback in New York 
played his best ball in college 
and hasnt taken a pro snap. 
Its not Dave Brown of the Gi
ants. Its not Boomer Esiason of 
the Jets'. Try the Knicks Charlie 
Ward.
Chris Cannon is a sophomore 
computer science major who can 
be found watching his favorite 
teams on Saturday, but never 
on Sunday, no way.
Expansion teams shake up standings
When you look at all the profes
sional sports industries these 
days, the one fad that youll no
tice is expansion teams. The NHL 
started this trend four years ago 
with the introduction of the San 
Jose Sharks, the Tampa Bay 
Lightning, and the Ottawa Sena
tors.
Two of its more recent expan
sion teams, the Florida Panthers 
and the Mighty Ducks of 
Aneheim, have silenced many 
hockey critics this year, showing 
that expansion teams can be ex
tremely successful in a relatively 
short period of time with a low 
team payroll.
When was the last time you 
looked at the NHL standings? If 
you havent, go see which team is 
leading the Atlantic Division. 
Heres a hint. Its not the Phila
delphia Flyers with their famed 
Legion of Doom line, nor is it the 
New York Rangers with their high 
payroll of superstars, nor is it the 
defending Stanley Cup New Jer
sey Devils with Jacque Lemaires 
neutral-zone trap. Believe it or 
not, its the Florida Panthers wifch 
14 victories and 29 points as'of 
last Sunday.
After two years of just barely 
missing the playoffs, the Pan
thers seem more focused th&n 
ever to make sure that you dont 
watch the playoffs this year bn 
television. The reason for most of 
Floridas success has been due to 
all-star goaltender John 
Vanbiesbrouk, who many are al
ready considering as league MVP. 
The Beezer has provided the 
outstanding goaltending neces
sary to keep Floridas relatively 
weak offense in most of the gam,es 
this season thus far. Floridas of
fense is centered around the 
teams first pick in the 1993 entry 
draft, Rob Niedermayer, along 
with Scott Mellanby and Stu 
Barnes. The teams first round 
draft pick last year, defenseman 
Ed Jovanovski, is starting to de
velop by supplying the Panthers 
with their much-needed tough
ness on the blueline.
How could anyone seriously i 
consider a hockey team whose 
home ice was named The Pond? 
Never mind that the team name 
and logo was inspired by a Disney 
movie about a pee-wee hockey 
team who go from being losers to 
heroes within one season. The 
very idea of having Disney own-, 
ing a hockey team was exciting 
from a marketing prospective, 
while making hockey fans wary 
of whether Disney had any knowl
edge. of producing a competitive 
hockey team on the ice.
Playing in its third season :in 
the National Hockey League, the 
Mighty Ducks have shown that it 
is a team ready to be taken seri- i 
ously, similar to on-screen prede
cessors, and adhering to the 
Disney philosophy that dreams 
do come true. Aneheim head 
coach Ron Wilson has received 
much criticism and pressure fropi 
fans the past year who have ques-' 
tioned his coaching staffs abili
ties. But the fruits of his labor ai*e 
beginning to show this year, aM 
Aneheim fans are finally seeing 
the light at the end of the tunnel 
The Ducks recent success has 
been due largely to the ernqr' 
gence of their last ye ar first round 
draft pick Paul Kariya, who has 
been labeled by many scouts j*s 
the next Wayne Gretzky. Ev^1 
The Great One himself h&s 
complimented the former Maifle 
standout, and predicted that 
Kariya will probably be one of tye 
next superstars in the future 
years to come. The 1993 Hobf)' 
Baker winner for best collegia*6 
hockey player, Kariya is current!) 
among the top 10 in league scdiing and is silencing critics wji 
Please see EXPANSION, page7

---------------------------------------------------

1 800 CALL ATT always costs less than i-soo-collect.
Always works from any phone. And always gets you the reliable AI&T Network.
Use it whenever you're off campus.
Administration
r< 
IM Director Mike Mastroianni x8- 
2214; Asst. Director Mike Grzywinski 
683-2938; IM Secretary  Michelle 
.Matta X8-2053; IM Co-Presidents  
Mike Monico and Sean Keane x2-2900; 
IM Women's President  Patty Bruno.
Important Dates
: November 28  IM Soccer Playoffs 
.jcontinue.
IM Board Meeting at 12:30 pm in the 
Gym Conference Room.
Soccer
The 1995 Soccer Playoffs have been 
rescheduled to Tuesday, November 28. 
All teams should check the IM Office 
; bulletin board orcall the IM Office atx8- 
. 2214 for updated playoff dates. If the 
weather conditions continue, teams 
are reminded to check with the IM 
Department on a day-to-day basis.
'' Here is the updated IM Soccer play' off schedule:
Minors
Tuesday, November 28 
SAE Hat Trick vs TX Malito (7:30, B)
' Hamerschlag B-l vs PiLam (4:30, B) 
DU-1 vs PKT Chaos (4:30, A)
 Wednesday, November 29 
' Deportivo vs Kappa Sigma (5:30, A)
; Melayu vs winner of SAE Hat Trick/TX 
Malito (6:30, A)
-Bleeding Suck vs winner of 
Hammerschlag B-l/PiLam (5:30, B) 
.Matharoonies vs winner of DU-l/PKT 
.' Chaos (5:30, B)
Majors
'. Tuesday, November 28 
. .Real Mellon A vs Real Mellon B
- {7:30, A)
' FC Schlitz vs GSIA (6:30, B)
Intermediate10 :  >
' 'Tuesday, November 28 
- Navy Blue vs Pika Renegades (6:30, A) 
-Dragons vs PKT Brazil (5:30, A)
:-Pelt Scrubs vs SigTau (5:30, B)
Wednesday, November 29 
SAE Strikers vs winner of Delt Scrubs/ 
igTau (8:30, A)
. Women
Wednesday; November 29 ; Kappa Alpha Theta vs DG (7:30, B) 
Tartan Hoopers vs Flying Os (8:30, B)
Racquetball
Congratulations to the 1995 IM Rac' quetball Champions:
Majors: Mexico 
Minors: TX Sujan
Six-Person Volleyball
Congratulations to the 1995 IM Vol
leyball Champions:S
1 Majors: Rude Dogs 
Intermediate: PKT Nucks 
ir Minors: SigTau 
Womens: Tartan Hoopers
Officials
Basketball and Floor Hockey officials 
are needed for next semesters IM 
activities. If you are interested and 
'looking for a campus job, call IM Direc1 tor Mike Mastroianni at X8-2214.
Submitted by 
Michelle Matta
Methodists
0No 0vemvb r 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn,
Tartans outswim Case Western on their way to a UAA victory
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
SWIMMING, from page 10
womens team has also consistently per
formed well. Despite the heavy odds 
against them, the teams still look forward 
to swimming against them.
Moe said, We like to swim against them 
because we know a lot of people on their 
team and because they have good compe
tition for us. We really look forward to 
having good races.
Head Coach Jim Cutrone feels good
about the season so far, but his main 
concern is the UAA championships held 
at the end of the season. During the : 
season I dont really care about the score , 
in dual meets, I care more about how ! 
they perform in the UAAs. Cutrone I 
also feels that this is one of the better I 
teams he has ever had here at CMU. ! 
Once the freshman mature in their swim
ming skills, he feels the teams have a 
very bright future.
You are Yl () I a mooch. But when 
a hole in your pocket renders you changeless,
you reluctantly call the folks collect.
You dial 1 800 CALL ATT.
Your pangs of guilt are VVli VII YVl Cl I.
 For interstate calls. Promotions excluded 
I-8OO-COLLECT is a registered trademark of MCL
AT&T
Your True Choice

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 90, Issue 11The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania20 October 1995
Womens cross country team 
places 11th at national meet
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
In its first-ever trip to the NCAA Division II 
National Chamionship Meet, which was held 
this past Saturday at Wisconsin-LaCrosse, 
the womens cross country team displayed
exceptional speed as they finished 11 th in the 
nation.
Head coach Dario Donatelli was very 
pleased with his teams performance, and he 
said, They did very well for the first time 
going to Nationals. They did a tremendous 
job.
Tartan File Photo
Senior Melissa Baustert, freshman Maureen McGranaghan, and junior Beckey Buchheit helped 
make Carnegie Mellon one of the best teams in the nation.
Freshman Maureen McGranaghan led the 
Tartans, finishing 63rd overall with her fast
est time ever, 18:47. The team then brought 
in a tight pack of runners: Senior Missy 
Baustert finished 75th with 18:57, junior 
Becky Buchheit finished 77th with 18:57, 
and freshman Melissa Lott placed 79th with 
18:58. CMU rounded out its scoring with 
Margaret Powers 144th place finish in 19:34.
Donatelli said, Three out of the five [team 
members] ran their fastest times of the year 
 they did a great job. He also added that 
the team had done far better than he could 
have hoped. Every race this year, they have 
exceeded my expectations. They have con
tinually improved ... getting a little better 
each time. They have been very consistent all 
year. My top five have remained my top five 
all season. None of them were injured or 
sick.
Baustert agreed, saying, I think we had a 
really good season  the best ever for the 
womens team. Im pleased with how our 
team ran.
Lott said, As a team, I think we did about 
as well as we expected. Its a lot different kind 
of race. They go out real fast and basically 
dont slow down all that much. The teams 
that did well had experience in this kind of 
race. Lott also thought that so many people 
had fast times because of the course. Its a 
fast course, she said, Its fairly straight, 
theres not too many hills. that plus lots of 
competition makes for a fast race.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Junior guard Penny Summerville passes to junior forward Kristen 
Kupfer, who was voted MVP in the CMU Tip-Off Tournament.
Lady Tartans win 
opening tourney
Tartans edge out local rivals in Classic
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
The Tartan hoopsters showed who 
was king of local Division III colleges 
tliis past weekend as they schooled 
Grove City College, Washington and 
Jefferson College in the West Penn 
Classic.
CMU opened up its 1995-96 season 
with an excitinghome matchup against 
the Presidents of W&J on Friday 
evening. The crowd in Skibo Gymna
sium was held on the edge of their 
seats all the way until the closing 
minute of the game. Throughout the 
fourth quarter, the Presidents chipped 
away at the Tartans 12 point lead 
until only one field gaol separated the 
teams. However the Tartans held fast 
in the home stretch and sank the pres
sure free throws to win 70-62.
Senior forward Kevin Byrne led the 
Tartans with 21 points and 11 re
bounds. Senior center Jon Blanciak
also picked up a double-double with 11 
points and 16 rebounds. Junior guard Rich 
Bodnar tallied 13 points and 6 rebounds in 
the win.
For their second matchup in the tourna
ment, Carnegie Mellon traveled north to 
Grove City College. Byrne again led the 
Tartans in another close win as they edged 
out Grove City, 68-64. Byrnes 23 points 
and 11 rebounds helped earn him MVP 
honors for the Classic. Blanciaks addi
tional five rebounds and two points placed 
him on the West Penn Classic first team. 
Senior forward Steve Hartman also had an 
excellent game, picking up 13 points and 
five rebounds. Bodnar tallied eight points 
amd six points in the contest.
The Tartans now stand at 2-0 on th 
season. They will take on Case Western 
Reserve University on Tuesday at home. 
CMU was ranked third in a preseason poll 
of UAA basketball coaches. CMU will be 
hosting a tournament over Thanksgiving 
break. John Carroll, Keuka, and Washing
ton & Lee will be participating.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Senior forward Gregg Lassan defends against W&J in the 
Tartans' 70-62 win last Friday evening.
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
Sometimes you blow out 
teams; other times, youjust edge 
them out in the closing moments 
of the game. The Lady Tartans 
did a little of both this weekend 
in the CMU Tip-Off Tourna
ment.
CMU started out its season 
with a bang, blowing out cross
town Chatham College in their 
first round game. The Tartans 
put on a clinic as they cmsfiifl 
Chatham in their inaugural sea
son, 97-18. Junior guard/for
ward Kristen Kupfer led the 
onslaught with 19 points and. 
17 rebounds. Sophomore for
ward Katie OLeary also picked 
up a double-double with 16 re
bounds and 18 points. Sopho
more forward contributed to the 
total with 12 points. Junior cen
ter Rebecca McCadney crashed 
the boards for nine rebounds 
and scored 10 points for the 
Tartans.
The victory on Saturday 
earned CMU a spot in the 
tournaments championship
game the next day. They faced up 
.^against Virginia Wesleyan, who 
had Squeaked past LaRoche Col
lege in their first round matchup, 
58-57. Virginia Wesleyan was in 
for another close game against 
the Lady Tartans. Shooting .667 
from three-point land in the sec
ond half, Virginia made things 
interesting in the second half, 
but CMU prevailed with a 45-41 
win and the Championship tro
phy. Again, Kupfer led her team
mates with 14 points and 10 re
bounds. Her superb performance 
in both games over the weekend 
earned her MVP honors. 
OLearys 12 rebounds and eight 
; points earned her a spot on the 
All-Tournament team. Sophoniore Marcelle Steele also had an 
Excellent game, tallying eight 
points and two rebounds.
'ihe Lady Tartans stand at 2-0 
on tfre season. They will host Case 
Western Reserve University on 
Tuesjiay evening at 8 pm. 
Carnegie Mellon was picked to 
finish in eighth place in a pre
season poll of UAA coaches.
CMU ^Il'al^p host Thiel Col
lege on E%cember 1 at 6 pm.
Swim teams defeat Case for seasons first UAA win
By SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens and womens swim teams 
won their first conference victory of 
the season this Saturday against Case 
Western Reserve University. Swim
ming in their first home meet of the 
season, the teams were looking to 
avenge a loss to Case last season.
As expected, the mens team domi
nated the event. Despite a slow start 
in the first race, the 400-yard medley 
relay, the swimmers quickly regrouped 
to outscore Case in seven straight 
events. CMU placed first in all seven of 
those events. First place finishers were: 
senior Geoff Waller in the 1,000-yard 
freestyle and200-yard butterfly; sopho
more Jake McGuire in the 200-yard 
freestyle and 200-yard backstroke; 
sophomore Mike Foster in the 50-yard 
freestyle and 100-yard freestyle; and 
senior Matt Moe in the 200-yard indi
vidual medley. Moe attributed the suc
cess of the team to the enthusiastic 
atmosphere surrounding the squad.
The team as a whole got together 
and accomplished their goals, he said.
The final mens score was 106-77.
The womens team was in a much 
closer meet but was able to prevail 
with key victories. Paced by an excel
lent start in the 400-yard medley re
lay, the team managed to place first in 
seven events. First place finishers 
were: senior Rebecca Fruehan in the 
1,000-yard freestyle, 50-yard freestyle
and 100-yard freestyle; freshman Jen
nifer Skuly in the 200-yard freestyle 
and 200-yard backstroke; and Jenni
fer Supancic in the 200-yard breast
stroke. Despite having both teams dis
qualified in the 400-yard freestyle re
lay, the womens team still had enough 
points for the victory.
Carly Cenedella said, It was an 
excellent meet. We swam really well 
and our relay teams were really to
gether.
The womens final score was 101 
95.
As important as the first place fin
ishers are, numerous other swimmers 
paced the team to victory. Their sec
ond and third place finishes were very 
important in accumulating points for 
the total victory. W aller said that with
out them, the team would not have as 
much success as it has enjoyed.
The teams next event is the 
Intersquad Classic held on December 
2 and 3. During the meet, the teams 
will split and swim against each other. 
According to the team, the purpose is 
to get in some fast times before they go 
away to Florida for the Hall of Fame 
Classic during the winter break. Fol
lowing that event, the team is looking 
to swim against Johns Hopkins at 
West Palm, Florida. The Johns 
Hopkins mens team won the confer
ence title last season and has domi
nated swim meets in the champion
ships for the past 15 years. Their 
Please see SWIMMING, page 9
Hockey Club defeats Pitt in rough game
for one which slid just to his left and into 
the net. The score stood at 11 as both 
teams skated off of the ice at the end of 
the period. The battle still hadnt begun.
After the break, the Tartans returned 
to the ice with renewed intensity. The 
first line went out hitting, and they 
werent alone. Officials were busy with a
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon was well prepared 
for their confrontation with Pitt on Sat
urday night at Neville Arena on the 
South Side. They knew who their de
fense had to shadow. They knew that 
Pitts center, Bill Elliot, was twice the 
size of their center, Roger Maddalena.
They also knew that things 
could get chippy. Very chippy.
This, added to the fact that 
Carnegie Mellon was the only 
thorn in Pitts side on their drive 
to the championship last sea
son, was enough to get CMU 
pumped for the game. The Tar
tans had beaten Pitt twice in 
regular season last year, some
thing no other team was able to 
do. Now they were out to do it 
again. Carnegie Mellon wanted 
to maintain their divisional 
record at a perfect 4-0, on top of 
the standings. They did it, by 
beating Pitt with style, 3-1.
CMU scored first coming into 
the first period, a quick release 
from freshman winger Keith Jo5h Freeman/Tartan Photographer
Garrett with an assist from Senior Captain Roger Maddalena takes the face-off against Pitt 
linemate, junior Relja In CMU's 3-1 victory over the Panthers.
Pitt took the 2-1 score in favor of CMU 
as a red light to make some major hits.
Their targets were the play makers. 
Center Maddalena got his neck sat on by 
Elliot, and the unfairness of the play 
infuriated him.
When Maddalena stood up and 
dropped his gloves, the whistle blew
Ivanovich. This momentum spread 
through the team as the crowd, filled 
with a busload of fans from CMU, ex
ploded in jubilation. The noise of the 
crowd seemed to cause movement on the 
Tartan bench, something that had been 
lacking all season. The Pitt players
total game penalty minute count of over immediately and he was out to cool off 
44 minutes between the two teams. for 10 minutes, and to have his neck
looked at. Elliot had slashed 
him with a high stick be
fore the scuffle, but only
received a two-minute mi
nor for the infraction. 
Kliegman was a stone wall 
in net, stopping all five 
shots, so Pitt rushed the 
net and charged him a few 
times. Knowing the sever
ity of the game at hand, 
CMU ran five defensemen 
the entire game.
Even though they played 
practically every other 
shift, graduate students 
Blair Echols and Toni 
Sullivan and sophomores 
Paul Voulgaris and Brian 
Campo showed no sign of 
fatigue. Junior defenseman 
Chris Adukaitis threw off 
Pitt players and controlled the puck while 
moving it into the opposing zone, skills 
that the .team has been practicing all 
year. Carnegie Mellon held the lead go
ing into the third. It would all come 
down to those 17 minutes.
Maddalena returned to the ice for the 
final period, but Pitt was still effective in 
tying up CMU, holding them to only five 
Please see HOCKEY, page 8
It was like you could do anything 
within 15 feet of the net, a player com
mented about the officiating. It was ev
ery man for himself. But some major 
sparring went on, causing the crowd to 
go wild and the CMU players to teem 
with electricity. Finally, that energy hit
skated on, bombarding starting junior Anthony Pauls stick, as he scored 
goaltender Jon Kliegman with 12 shots on a feed from junior Jim Buck and 
on goal. He gobbled them all up, except captain Maddalena.

---------------------------------------------------

T XTTT* T AQDIIDQQDPDQ
LlVliW
Volume 90. Issue 11The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania20 November 1995
Food for 
Thought
Diet affects personal performance
Many turn to vegetarianism for health, political reasons
By ANDREW WANG
Tartan Staffwriter
I live a vegan / cruelty-free lifestyle, 
which is very difficult here at CMU. 
Many of my friends are either vegetar
ian or vegan. At CMU, I have already 
circled petitions and have had many 
conversations with Dining Services and 
Student Affairs persons. I was promised 
changesmonths ago. Since coming to 
CMU as a freshman this year, I have lost 
22 pounds," said Nathan Martin, a fresh
man art major.
Nathan, like a large handful of other 
CMU students, is a vegetarian, and spe
cifically, hes a vegan, meaning that not 
nly does he not eat any meat products, 
but he doesnt eat any dairy products, 
eggs, or any other animal products.
Q: So what do vegans and vegetarians eat?
A: Besides for the stereotypical veg
etarian diet of fresh fruits and veg
etables, there are many varied dishes of 
S^ins, pastas, breads, potatoes, beans, 
nce, nut butters, seeds, dried fruit, tofu 
and other soybean products.
What I eat varies. As far as what I 
can eat, there is a variety of fare, from 
Vegetarian burgers, sausage, etc., to 
Soups, grains, and pasta, to ethnic fare 
such as Indian, Asian (Chinese, Thai, 
e^c*), Middle Eastern, Mexican, etc.
However, in my day-to-day life, I tend to 
stick with simple foods, such as rice, 
beans, pasta, and potatoes, said Mat
thew Ball, a long-time vegan and the 
defacto head of CMU Vegetarians.
Vegetarians at CMU have had a. wide 
variety of experiences, affected by 
whether they live on or off campus, how 
strict their diets are, and their reasons 
for becoming vegetarian.
Im ovo-lacto-veggie [vegetarian who 
also eats dairy products and eggs] ... 
have been for almost exactly a year. I 
have no real intention to go vegan or 
anything at this point, because then Id 
have to give up pizza (at least normal 
pizza) and ice cream and various other 
essentials, said an anonymous junior 
ECE major.
Maybe someday though ... I happily 
ate meat until I got a place with a kitchen 
last year, and for the first time cooked it 
regularly. Dealing with meat, both while 
its raw and while cooking, is really freak
ing disgusting. Basically, I just lost my 
taste for it, he added.
He felt that it was not difficult to be a 
vegetarian at CMU. Its not hard at all
 of course, I live off-campus and never 
eat anything produced by Dining Ser
vices. Its cheaper and much tastier to 
cook for myself.
He enjoys Subways veggies and cheese 
subs for good inexpensive food, as well 
as most Indian restaurants in the area 
for their excellent vegetarian selections.
Specifically, CMU is not Berkeley 
[where there are vegan options at every 
dormmeal]. Unfortunately, many people 
seem to think that they need to have 
some elaborate spread of vegetarian/ 
vegan fare to survive, while other people 
eat only chunks of fat, cholesterol, ani
mal protein, and white flour. It has been 
my experience that once people are re
ally aware of what goes on in the produc
tion of their flesh-based diets, they tend 
to realize that being vegetarian at CMU 
is less difficult than facing yourself as a 
carnivore and contributing to suffering 
and death, said Ball.
Ball feels that being vegan is a very 
compelling statement to make for non
violence and justice on behalf of himself, 
the planet, and the other animals within 
the world.
It has become a lot easier to be a 
vegan here at CMU this year 
[compared with last year], 
now that they are mak
ing an effort at 
Highlander to 
offer vegetar
ian food. I 
usually eat a 
lot of beans 
and rice and 
salads, and 
Wok NRoll 
provides a 
needed diver
sion every once
in a while. The woks at Highlander 
are also good to cook your own food. I 
also order a lot of vegetarian subs 
with no cheese and extra mustard 
from Dominos, and eat at Sitos in 
Oakland whenever possible, said 
Patrick Conlin, a sophomore English 
major, who became a vegan in sup
port for his animal-rights beliefs.
Im a vegetarian. I suppose Im 
probably not a very healthy one... not 
enough protein and all. Its hard to 
eat healthy here [at CMU]. Im a 
vegetarian because its better for you 
... no cholesterol. I do not eat dairy 
products, and I pretty much stay 
away from plain old eggs, said Erica 
Brusselars, a sophomore in math
ematics.
Please see VEGGIES, page L4
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
The nutritional value of what youre eating is 
probably not the most pertinent thing on a your 
mind at CMU, but is definitely a topic that should 
be considered. After all, nutrition plays a major 
partin a persons performance, well-being, state of 
mind, and endurance, and we know that all of 
these things are necessary to survive in a college 
environment.
Knowing this, here are some helpful tips and 
facts to help you get the most nutrition your money 
can buy on campus.
According to Anita Barkin, director of Health 
Services, food is divided into four groups: milk, 
meat, fruit and vegetable, and grain.
The average person needs two servings a day 
from the milk group, two servings a day from the 
meat or vegetable substitute group (which con
sists of beans, dried peas, lentils, and nuts), four 
servings a day from the fruit and vegetable group; 
and four servings a day from the grain group.
Each group provides essential nutrients and 
vitamins. The milk group contains calcium, phos
phorus, protein, riboflavin, Vitamin A, Vitamin 
B12, and Vitamin D.
The meat group or vegetable substitute group 
fortifies the body with protein, Vitamin B, Vita
min B complex, and iron.
The fruit and vegetable group supplies many 
vitamins such as Vitamin A, Vitamin C, Vitamin 
E, Vitamin K, and Vitamin B complex except for 12 
as well as fiber.
The grain group is a source of protein, Vitamin 
B complex, and fiber.
Barkin said, Tour body needs three types of 
food. The first is carbohydrates, which should be 
the bulk of your diet. The second is protein, and the 
third is fat. Carbohydrates are low in fat and 
calories. Proteins are body builders. They supply 
the body with essential amino acids, and fats are 
for the absorption of soluble vitamins.
Fats are a source of energy but they should not 
be the primary source, she added.
Barkin feels that it is possible for a student to get 
the recommended servings of the four basic food 
groups in the dining facilities throughout campus. 
She said, You can meet the four basic food group 
needs even if you want to avoid prepared food 
entirely. There are fresh fruits in the cafeterias
and milk, cereal, bagels, and grains are available 
as well.
However, many students have reason to argue. 
Derek Fung, a senior IS major said, The food here 
has some nutritional value. I mean I have to admit, 
it used to be really bad, and it has gotten better this 
year. The way I see it is, they dont care how bad the 
food is because people have to go there anyway. 
When theres a blizzard out, students have no 
other alternative.
Pedro Manautou, a sophomore MechE major, 
agrees with Fung. He said, They claim that they 
are more competent than other places to eat like in 
Oakland, but it is not true. Something that hap
pens to me once a week is that I have to grab a 
hamburger or a chicken sandwich, and the meat is 
actually raw. So then, I have to go switch it. I can 
only eat in the cafeteria once a day. For my healths 
sake, I cant eat there two times a day.
When Julie Balch, a freshman music and biology 
major, was asked to describe the nutritional ele
ment she was getting out of her meal of Com Pops 
and pizza, her response was representative of the 
feelings of many students at CMU. She said, You 
call this food?
While Jeanne Martin, a freshman music major, 
has qualms about the preparation of food, particularly.the spaghetti marinara and chicken parmesan 
that was staring her in the face. She said, One 
word  grease.
Sean Kelly, a sophomore music major, dreads 
those few times when he must succumb to eating in 
the on-campus dining facilities. He said, Its a 
gastronomical nightmare. Im only eating cause I 
have nothing better to do, and Im waiting for the 
shuttle. This is the second time Ive eaten here [oncampus]this year.
It is evident that a great number of students are 
cynical in terms of the nutritional value of on 
campus food. So why do they eat on campus?
Barkin said, A big problem is when youre busy, 
you want a meal thats fast and easy. Students 
dont have time to shop for and prepare food. 
However, they must realize that nutritious foods 
are available.
She added, My suggestion is to eat fresh fruit, 
cereal, bagels, and foods that are not subject to 
preparation. Also, the various eating establish
ments throughout campus such as GSIA provide 
nicely displayed and healthy food choices. Stu
dents need to take advantage of these places.
II graphics on this page by Mark Eggert/Tartn Artist
Students 
love to cook
BYSHARMELA
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Calendar Editor
This Thanksgiving, Eric 
Schonthal, a senior En
glish major, plans to serve his 
guest something a little different be
sides the traditional stuffed turkey. 
Hes trying his hand at a sweet and 
sour turkey from a recipe sent to him 
by a friend.
Im also thinking of a potato and 
onion pie, he said with a gleam in his 
eye.
Like many students at CMU, 
Schonthal has found it necessary to 
develop good cooking skills due to the 
capricious nature of the college dining 
experience. I love to eat. So the most 
practical way for me to eat is to cook 
the things I like to eat by myself, he 
said.
Schonthal first started cooking with 
his roommate from last semester who 
comes from a family of nine kids. All 
through his life they had to cook for 
each other, so hes quite a cook, said 
Schonthal.
As opposed to students who live on 
campus, Schonthal finds that youre 
forced to fend for yourself food- wise 
when living in an apartment or house 
off campus. While everyone com
plains about the state of campus din
ing services, youre even less likely to 
eat there if its not so accessible, he 
said.
For Schonthal, the secret to being 
competent in the kitchen is practice 
and a willingness to make mistakes. 
After you have a few basic concepts 
down, its good to experiment and try 
things out for yourself. You learn from 
your mistakes, he said.
Learning to cook is also a good way 
to cut down on college costs, according 
to Schonthal, and makes chores like 
grocery shopping all the more inter
esting.
He said, When money gets tight, 
its easier to turn to your refrigerator 
rather than going out to eat, if you 
know what youre doing in a kitchen. 
Half the planning of a meal and the 
majority of decisions are made in the 
grocery store, so if you shop well, you 
-iaJ- well.
While SchonthiJ claims to try ev
erything once, his specialty is Italian 
cooking, and finds that creating a 
tomato sauce from scratch is one of 
the most interesting recipes around.
My favorite recipe is veal parmesan, 
although its not very P.C. these days. 
The easiest way to learn how to cook 
is to enjoy what youre doing. Its im
portant to pay attention to details, 
he said. Another student who devel
oped cooking skills during college is 
junior industrial design major Somya 
Gutshall. I like to Mexicanize every
thing: salsa, cheese, beans; they can 
make any meal, she said.
Gutshall lives in a house off-campus with four vegetarians and finds 
that beans are a major staple in their 
diet. Beans are greatthey come in 
many varieties and can be manipu
lated in many ways, she said. My 
parents were separated and I lived 
with my dad, so we had to learn to 
cook for each other. Thats made a big 
difference in my eating habits now, 
she added.
Please see COOKING, page L4

---------------------------------------------------

0No 0vemvb r 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn,
BeRRiesROCTCS
lenndrn . Ld12Dir vs2od721n 
FiDu2m 4e12 42imn
ujioye
STUDENT 
CENTER^ 
DEC. 4 
&. DEC. 5
vge12 I2S2r2Dp . vg2Drd1t 
vge12 42imn i1m LeD2
ITESMSistemalTESM
INSTITUTO TECNOLOGICO Y DE ESTUDIOS SUPERIORES DE MONTERREY
Faculty Positions for January 1996
Visiting Professor Full Time Professor
* Ph D degree in one of the 
following areas:
* Electronic Engineering
* Computer Science
* Industrial Engineering
* Systems Engineering
* Candidates must come in 
his/her sabbatical year 
(ideally) injanuary 1996 or
I August 1996
* Master or Ph D degrees in 
one of the following areas:
* Business Administration 
Marketing, Finance 
International Business
* Systems Engineering
* Library Science
* Computer Science
* Industrial Engineering
* Mechanical Engineering
 Available for January 1996
 Fluent in SpanishTo Apply:
Applicants who wish to be considered send resume, copies of the 
transcript and diploma before December 7,1995 to:
Lie. Claudia Ferrer
Phones in Mexico: (528) 358-9600 / 358-4141
Fax: (528) 328-4199
E-mail: cferrer@qm.mty.itesm.mx
Approved 
Auto Repair
J MISS PENNSYLVANIA USASM PAGEANT
t Official ffifahmmcuty
$ jfik& USA'fflayeanb
NO PERFORMING TALENT REQUIRED
If you are an applicant who 
qualifies and are between the ages of 
18 and 27 by February 1,1997, never 
married and at least a six month resi
dent of Pennsylvania, thus college 
dorm students are eligible, you could 
be Pennsylvania's representative at 
the CBS-nationally televised Miss 
USA Pageant* in February 1997 to 
compete for over $200,000 in cash 
and prizes. The Miss Pennsylvania 
USA Pageant for 1997 will be pre
sented at the Palace Inn, Monroeville, 
Pennsylvania, March 2 & 3, 1996. 
The new Miss Pennsylvania USA, along 
with her expense paid trip to compete in the CBS-nationally televised Miss 
USA Pageant, will receive over $2,000 in cash among her many prizes. All 
ladies interested in competing for the title must respond by mail. Letters 
must include a recent snapshot, a brief biography, 
address and a phone number. WRITE TO:
TBi HISS PENNSYLVANIA USA PAGEANT
c/o Tri-State Headquarters - Dept CA 'A Carvem Production';
1* LMJ 347 Locust Avenue, Washington, PA 15301 CejAaS*. ' ~
Tri State HeadqjarteiS Ptone is (412) 225-5343
T*
*
*
*



*
*


*


SUSAN BARNETT
Miss Pennsylvania USA
20)OAO(
hioitoMtkirwpMe" INISNT
Application Deadline is December 16, 1995 Miss USA* Pageant is pari of the Madison Square Garden family. Miss Pennsylvania USA* Pageant is A Carvem Production
AAA APPROVED  ASE CERTIFIED 
VISA MASTERCARD DISCOVER ACCEPTED
Since 1959*
BASTONE AUTO SERVICE
235 1/2 CARRON ST. 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15206 
(412) 362-3548 
(412) 361-3554
Will you be driving 
home for Thanksgiving?
Handbook, CMU services provide valuable resources for worn
By ANNEMAREE DEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
Educating Ourselves: The College
Womans Handbook combines advice 
from your mother, sister, best friend, 
RA, high school health teacher, aca
demic advisor, and counselor into one 
book. Authors Rachel Dobkin and Shana 
Sippy, recent graduates of Barnard Col
lege, have put all of their college experi
ences, good and bad, and ways of dealing 
with them into this book. Topics include 
safer sex, financial aid, stress, and activ
ism, and many, many others.
The book covers issues that are spe
cific to women, as well as those that 
apply to all college students, but all are 
presented from a womans viewpoint. 
The helpful hints in the chapters on 
academics apply to anyone, but the 
sidebars highlight issues specific to 
women. The chapters on sexual and
Tartan File Photo
Womens Center members gather for a weekly collective meeting.
reproductive matters include informa
tion on condoms and how to use them 
properly, something seemingly male ori
ented.
However, the book also stresses that 
women are responsible, too, and gives 
other tips for women, including examples 
of comebacks to use when your partner 
refuses to wear a condom.
One of the best examples is Im too big 
for a condom. Then youre certainly too 
big for me.
One reccurring feature of the book is 
the interesting fact, statistic, or anec
dote at the bottom of each page. Some 
examples are: Every $1 spent to subsi
dize contraception and abortion costs for 
poor women saves $4.40 in medical and 
welfare costs for an unwanted child. 
Women over 35 are now the most rap
idly increasing population of college stu
dents, and A Dr. Condom invented his 
namesake contraceptive at the behest of 
King Charles 
II, who 
wanted to 
limit his num
ber of illegiti
mate chil
dren.
The other 
running 
theme of the 
handbook is 
getting in
volved. Each 
chapter ends 
with a section 
on activism 
and suggested 
activities and 
a list of re
lated re
sources. CMU already has many of these 
suggestions in place, including the 
Womens Center and many administra
tive programs focusing on women.
The Special Projects Office of the As
sociate Provost for Academic Projects
UCATINGi 20Novemvo
C Rachel Dobkin ' Shana Si
 Workman Publishing
runs seminars focused on the concerns 
of women. Retaining women in techni
cal fields is the purpose of the Women in 
Science and Engineering Dinner held in 
March.
Women faculty, staff, and students 
in CIT, MCS, CS, and technical H&SS 
fields gather to reaffirm the fact that we 
have faith and believe in [the female 
students], said organizer Kathleen
Minadeo Johnson. Other 
programs, including 
monthly Words of Wisdom 
lunches, support female 
graduate students in their 
academic careers.
The [five-yearold] Womens Cen
ter could be a place 
for all women. Its 
also a place for 
men. Everyone can 
benefit from the 
books that are 
there and the 
speakers we bring 
in, said Kara 
Weeks, a senior 
drama major in
volved at the cen
ter.
The center re
cently expanded 
its library and has. 
many books on 
topics from 
womens health to 
lesbian and gay issues to womens 
history that the library doesnt 
have. It brings in many speak
ers, and co-sponsors events with 
related organizations.
The space at the Womens Cen
ter in MMP is also made available to 
other organizations for meetings. Vol
unteers are working on a Web page and 
a link to LIS so everyone can know what 
resources are available.
These are not the only organizations 
on campus that have womens issues in 
mind.
There is not one administrator in 
charge of womens concerns, and Dean
Tartan File Photo
of Student Affairs Anne Witchner likes 
it that way. Its better that as many of 
us be sensitive, be concerned, and listen 
as possible, she said.
Like the reccurring theme of the book, 
many at CMU encourage people to get 
involved. Weeks said, [At the Womens 
Center], were looking for people who 
have a lot of ideas about improving the 
status of women on campus and educat
ing men and women about anything and 
want to get them done.
There are a lot of caring people here, 
you just have to find them, said Johnson.
If you really have a need, theres an 
opportunity.
Columnist believes that Cleveland Browns should change their name
Life Through A Half Full Glass
by F. Colt Foutz
There is a special bond between my 
brother and me these days and it con
sists of two words: foot and ball.
Okay, so maybe thats really one word, 
but to hear some of my uncles say it, 
peanuts and popcorn streaming out of 
'their mouths, well, you just wouldnt 
know. At any rate football is something 
we can get together on, a war cry we can 
rally behind. Of course, it doesnt hurt 
that it goes great with potato chips, 
swiss cheese, and beer.
Maybe when were 21 well find out 
just why thats so great. But until then, 
weve got Tecmo Super Bowl III for that 
beacon of family warmth and together
ness, the Sega Genesis machine.
Tecmo Super Bowl III is not to be 
"confused with Tecmo Super Bowl for the 
Nintendo, and especially not with Tecmo 
Bowl.
Tecmo Bowl originated in the stone 
ages, specifically 1988, and mainly con
sists of a few blobs moving across the 
screen.
Different colored blobs stood for dif
ferent colored teams, and the closer you 
got to one giant multi-colored blob 
which represented the end zone, 
the closer you were getting to a 
touchdown.
It was a high-tech game in its 
day, but that day is gone. Its 
1995, video game buffs, and that 
means three control buttons. As 
opposed to two. See? High tech!
My brother and I spent hours 
guiding our respective teams 
through 19 games in a season to 
win the Super Bowl.
We even wrote down the stats 
of our players, and one miracle 
season I got career back up quar
terback Mike Pagel to throw for
4,000 yards, 50 touchdowns, and 
take the Browns to a Super Bowl 
championship.
This is no small feat considering 
hes probably not thrown for 4,000 
yards in his career.
So, for much of high school and when
ever I go home from college Ive pretty 
much been deluded into this fantasy 
football world of unending success and 
Mike Pagel tossing up 90 yard bombs.
Its no small surprise then that I was
jarred painfully to reality when my home 
town Browns announced that they were 
moving to Baltimore two weeks ago.
Ever since I can remember the men in 
my family lived and breathed Browns 
football on Sundays.
mom i^gcik/ i email niuoi
Heck, my dog even got an extra 
Milkbone biscuit whenever the Browns 
won, the same brand of choice that the 
rabid fans in Cleveland Stadiums Dawg 
Pound munched on game days. My 
dad, brother, and I huddled on the living 
room couch and watched it all.
1986. The year the Broncos beat us 
with a field goal in the AFC champion
ship after the Drive to send the game 
into overtime. 1987. The Broncos keep
ing us out of the big dance once more, 
augmented by Earnest Byners 
fumble in the end zone. I can still 
hear the optimistic strains of 
the parody sung to the tune of 
Louie, Louie, Bernie, 
Beraie, Oh Lord, how he can 
throw! Bemie, Bernie, Oh 
Lord, Super Bowl.
The last Battle for Ohio 
against the Bengals looms 
darkly ahead on December
17, and the Cleveland-Pittsburgh rivalry will mutate 
into Baltimore-Pittsburgh 
after November 26.
It seems like those days 
are now gone forever, stolen 
by an owner who chose to 
move the franchise for $50 
million rather than keep it in 
a city that loves the Browns.
What is wrong with this picture?
A wise old proverb once stated 
that 70,000 screaming fans cant be 
wrong.
Well, maybe not, but Im trying to pull 
out all the stops for my beloved team. 
This is not Los Angeles, where people 
would much rather stay at home and 
practice their lines than go to a Rams or
Raiders game. This is Cleveland, home 
of the Kardiac Kids and the comeback 
city. I just cant envision the Baltimore 
Browns.
Augh! The name rolls off my tongue 
like a dead salamander. I cant say for 
sure what that actually feels like, but 
trust me on this one, it hurts.
Next year would have marked the 50th 
anniversary of the Browns in Cleveland. 
God, that sounds weird. The Browns in 
Cleveland. Where else do they belong? 
That is why I propose that Baltimore 
just drop this beloved name entirely. 
Paul Brown never coached in Baltimore. 
Name your team Belichick for all I care 
and dress them in mauve and lime, but 
let the Browns die in Cleveland if indeed 
they must die. Then at least Ill have a 
new team to play with in Tecmo Super 
Bowl.
But when technology takes another 
step forward and they have an owner
ship mode, dont bet against me on 
movingthe Baltimore Belichicks back to 
Cleveland.
Heck, I wouldnt be too surprised if I 
saw Mike Pagel quarterbacking them to 
another ersatz Super Bowl either.
Colt Foutz is a freshman in H&SS. He is 
itching to give his new football game a 
try, if only CMU would cancel classes for 
the remainder of the year and allow him 
to.
Make sure your car is ready to go too. 
Come to Bastone Auto Service for all 
of your automotive servicing needs.

---------------------------------------------------

0No 0vemvb r 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn,Upc
Ballroom club dances through competition, snowstorm
By F. COLT FOUTZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
They partied. And when it was over, 
they partied some more. Fifty-six mem
bers of CMUs Ballroom Dance Club 
competed at the Eastern Regional Dance 
Sport Festival in Washington D.C. on 
November 11, waltzing and tangoing 
their way through a crowded competi
tion, a snowstorm, and a blackout. But 
these distractions could do nothing to 
dampen their spirits. If you want to be 
in any situation where the lights go out, 
this would have to be it, said Stephanie 
Behrens, a sophomore CivE major. Ev
eryone was just so pumped!
The competition was CMU Ballrooms 
third this semester, and was easily the 
largest. Last years version of the festi
val boasted 50 couples, and this year 
was only expected to have 80 or so. 
However, when 150 couples registered 
for the event, organizers had to move the 
competition to the gym.
When a winter storm swept through 
the midwest two Saturdays ago, it 
knocked out the power in parts of Wash
ington, and at the Catholic University of 
America, where the festival was held. 
Judges were forced to cancel 
the rest of the competition 
shortly after the outage, but 
the dancers hung out in the 
dark gym and bonded, burst
ing into song when the music 
stopped, frozen in their tango 
poses and hoping the competi
tion could go on.
When the evenings dancing 
came to an early close, they 
stuck around for a flashlightlit awards ceremony. Though 
much of the team competition 
stage of the festival could not 
be completed, the 300 dancers 
in attendance did not go away 
empty handed. It was an expe
rience to remember.
We were all disappointed 
because there was no closure 
of the competition, but we all 
had a great time, said Michael 
Posner, a graduate student in 
statistics. One of the things 
about competitions is that
youre not competing against other 
people, but with other people, he added.
Tartan File Photo
Ballroom dance club members practice turns.
As it turned out, even the gym was not 
big enough to get all of the 204 dancers 
signed up for the events largest dance 
on the floor at once. They had to run two 
separate preliminary rounds. Even in 
the midst of such a crowd, especially in 
the midst of such a crowd, the dancers 
from CMU flourished.
My goal is not going to see how many 
firsts I can get, said Behrens, who was 
dancing in her fifth competition. I just 
go to have a good time, and if I get some 
ribbons, hey! Thats an added bonus!
The individual matches had all been 
completed, and the team matches were 
underway, when the power went out. 
Up to that point the competition had 
gone more slowly than expected, but 
with a few surprises.
The CMU ballroom club brought the 
largest number of dancers to the event, 
half of them first timers, and continued 
a tradition of winning consistently in 
the International style dances, while 
also making a strong showing in the 
American style part of the competition. 
Due to the blackout, full results from the 
festival have not yet been tabulated or
sent to the. club, but will be made avail
able on the ballroom competition web 
page, at http://www.contrib.andrew. 
cmu.edu/~mp6r/complist.html. Still, for 
most it wasnt the results that counted, 
it was the fun.
One of the highlights for veteran mem
bers of the club was seeing the newcom
ers enthusiastically getting involved. The 
largest club on campus is always looking 
for new members. Ballroom classes are 
held Wednesday evenings from 7-11 and 
Fridays beginning at 6:15 pm at the 
Student Center Drill Deck, and are open 
to anyone that wants to dance, regard
less of skill level. Partners are not neces
sary to get into the action; you just need 
to show up.
Upcoming Ballroom events for 1995-96 
include a Dance-a-thon fundraiser De
cember 2, a year-end party at the Drill 
Deck on December 8, CMUs own dance 
competition, the Spring Fling, on March 
9, and a massive inter-collegiate social 
dance organized by club president Drew 
Shefman, tentatively scheduled for La
bor Day, 1996.
Columnist examines nature, depth of dormitory relationships
In the Spotlight
by Dan Rosenberg
When Chris Scott, a freshman in both 
CIT and H&SS, celebrated his 19th birth
day last September, he received a case of 
fuel (Mountain Dew) and a copy of 
Diner, his favorite movie. Gifts from his 
parents or relatives? No. Perhaps they 
were courtesy of an old friend? Wrong 
again. These tokens of affection was 
presented to him by several of his 
floormates whom Chris had met just two 
weeks before.
This gesture made me realize that 
these people care ... it was a really posi
tive feeling. [The people from the floor] 
are a lot closer than I expected, he said.
It is this closeness that most of the 31 
residents of Mudge 2C say is their 
favorite aspect of residence life, and, to 
some, the best part of their college expe
riences to date.
This closeness is most prevalent in the 
way the residents interact with one an
other. Freshman IDS major Ivor Clarke 
said, I love the general camaraderie of 
the floor. Were a group of people that get 
along really well.
We have a floor bond no other floor 
has, said freshman Shan Ablak, an eco
nomics major. This union can best be 
illustrated by the number of activities 
the residents do together. They often eat 
as a group, both on and off-campus. 
They went ice skating recently, and they 
also go to movies together occasionally. 
They initiated an exciting snowball fight 
last week, and they also played in the 
puddles left by a thunderstorm a few 
months ago.
Sidney Chang, a freshman in H&SS, 
said, I like the fact that everybody has 
their own uniqueness. This uniqueness 
can best be illustrated in the variety of 
ways the residents spend their free time. 
While most cite being with friends as an 
excellent activity in which to engage, 
the remainder of interests range from 
athletic activities such as volleyball, 
skiing, ice skating, football, and karate 
to music-related activities (i.e. playing 
the piano, trumpet, or violin, composing 
music, or trying out for an a cappella 
group) to reading, whether it be comic 
books, magazines, or novels.
Like Chang, freshman IM major Rob 
Harwer appreciates the diversity of the 
floor. He said, [Mudge] 2C is very color
ful ... a broad mixture of backgrounds 
and personalities. This variety is due in 
part to the fact that 2C is a coed floor 
with residents ranging from first years 
to fifth-years.
The fifth-year senior is Aaron Kozbelt, 
a psychology major described by many 
underclassmen as a big brother who 
provides not only advice, but also friend
ship. Kozbelts room is often the center 
of discussions on a variety of topics, 
ranging from classical music and art to 
daily events in the residents lives.
It is tougher to im agine a better group 
of students ... [they] know how to enjoy 
themselves and have good conversa
tions, said Kozbelt.
The respect Kozbelt feels for his 
floormates is certainly reciprocated. 
Mike Subelsky, a freshman psychology 
major with a passion for writing, said 
Aaron inspires me.
Kozbelt is the guy we 
all respect ... the 
smartest one [on the 
floor].
Like Kozbelt, resi
dent assistant Lester 
Manzano also serves 
as a big brother to sev
eral of the residents 
on the predominantly 
freshman floor.
Manzano, a junior psy
chology major, loves 
his job. It is way of 
life ... I cant imagine 
not being an RA.
Allen Go certainly 
appreciates his RAs 
dedication, citing 
Manzano as the best 
part of living on the Justin Mingo and 
floor. Lester takes 
care of a lot of things, commented the 
freshman IM major.
Recently, Manzano instigated I Like, 
an activity in which the 2C residents
were invited to describe the people, 
places, and things they liked. The pur
pose of the exercise was to encourage 
self-evaluation and personal develop
ment ... to express the good things in 
their lives, said Manzano.
While the strongest bonds seem to 
have developed among the freshmen, 
the upperclassmen also express a fond
ness for the sense of community that has 
developed on the floor. Like Kozbelt and 
Manzano, sophomore Jim Foraker, a
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Alan Charness, residents of Mudge 2C, chill in the hall.
While nearly all of the residents view 
their floor in a positive light, they are 
also willing to admit that 2C is not 
perfect. Some of the freshmen need to 
learn better group living skills, which 
they will in time, said an upperclass
man.
A few individuals complained of the 
noise that extends into the early morn
ing hours. Jason Martin, a freshman in 
H&SS, loves how social his floor is, but 
said, You cant really study here. He 
suggested that if a lounge 
were on the floor, the hall
ways and the residents. 
rooms would be less con
gested. In fact, the primary 
concern expressed by most 
residents was the fact that 
the ground floor is not con
ducive to studying. How
ever, freshman biology ma
jor Elad Kaufman said, 
The students themselves 
share a common goal of 
learning and are not 
ashamed of it.
In short, the residents of 
2C are happy with them
selves and their floormates. 
[Mudge] 2C is like a book 
of short stories ... open up 
to any chapter and youll be 
entertained, said Alan 
Charness, a freshman who
physics major, said, This floor is char- plans to major in economics, 
acterized by the number of freshmen on
it... 2C residents are a group of people Dan Rosenberg is a freshman in the 
[that] are very close knit. University Choice program.
Object oriented modern programming provides many benefits
Focused on the 
Internet
by Kenton Shaver
Readers have undoubtedly 
heard the catch phrase Object 
Oriented (OO) used in reference 
to modern programming. This 
technique, through the employI ment of its encapsulation, poly| morphism, information-hiding, 
j and inheritance, delivers to the 
I programmer the ability to reuse 
I code as often as possible, thereby j saving time, making debugging 
| more comprehensive, and makI ing more complex projects posI sible, in addition to many other 
I benefits.
One such reuse-encouraging 
I 00 technology is IBMs System 
Object Model (SOM).
This week, FI [Focused on the 
I Internet] had the opportunity to 
I talk to Roger Sessions, the former 
| lead of the SOM development efI fort at Big Blue, who now runs 
I his own company, 
I ObjectWatch(tm), about SOM 
I and SOM-related issues.
Sessions encourages interested 
I readers to subscribe to his email 
| newsletter on SOM and Distrib| uted Objects. Write to him at
roger@fc.net to request a sub
scription. Only a fragment of the 
interview can run in The Tartan. 
Look for the rest on the WWW: 
http://www.club.cc.cmu.edu/ 
-kenton/interviews.html
SOM is a packaging software 
technology that helps the user 
leverage the benefits of 00 cod
ing techniques. Browse http:// 
www.mfi.com/os2dev/ 
sessions.html for a complete in
troduction.
Bindings are fundamental to 
the programmer taking advan
tage of SOM, enabling the lan
guage, such as C or C++ or 
Smalltalk, that these bindings 
are designed for to SOM-empower 
itself, rendering it fit to utilize 
SOM facilities. I asked Sessions 
about them.
FI: What is involved in IBM 
creating SOM bindings, or its 
users creating the for languages 
that have CORBAIDL bindings, 
but no SOM bindings? What is 
the relationship between the two?
RS: CORBA specifies an inter
face, but doesnt specify any 
implementation. So companies 
are free to implement any way 
they want. SOM has its own idea 
of a runtime, where classes are 
registered, and which knows how 
to invoke methods on objects.
The native interface to the SOM 
runtime is through a procedural 
library. This is a nasty interface 
to use. Rather than expect our 
users to call the SOM runtime
directly, we have language bind
ings which allow the runtime to 
be called in a way as natural as 
possible to a language user.
For example, for a C user, a 
method call looks a lot like a pro
cedure call [because of SOM com
piler syntax compensations]. ... 
For example, suppose I have a 
class dog which defines a bark 
method, and a [derived class] 
littledog that overrides the bark. 
Then a C programmer instanti
ates toto as a littledog, using 
toto = littledogNewO; and thus 
asks toto to bark: bark(toto).
This looks like a procedure to 
Dorothy, a C programmer, but is 
actually a method call. You can 
tell it is a method call because it 
is dynamically linked through 
standard polymorphism mecha
nisms. On the other hand, a C++ 
programmer would invoke a 
method on toto with: toto>bark();
So it doesnt matter which lan
guage the method is implemented 
in. This is another advantage of 
SOM, it supports language inde
pendence. This means dog can be 
written in C, littledog can be 
written in C++ and override dog 
methods, and Dorothy can instan
tiate objects in any language she 
chooses as long as it supports 
SOM.
FI: ...And the actual dog it
self can be written in any lan
guage so long as the code is regis
tered with the SOM runtime?
RS: Right. We can have dog 
written in one language, 
littledog which is derived from 
dog and overrides dog meth
ods written in a second language 
... [while the final program can 
be] written in yet another lan
guage. The only requirement is 
that all three languages have 
SOM bindings.
FI: This seems part of IBMs 
Internet strategy, SOM technol
ogy. Microsofts COM hasnt been 
released. What is CORBAs posi
tion in relation to IBM and MS 
right now?
RS: The OMG is defining gate
ways to allow CORBA implementations to interact with 
[Microsofts] COM and OLE com
ponents. As far as IBMs Internet 
strategy, I would say that SOM is 
critical to IBMs distributed ar
chitecture. There will soon be
versions of Distributed SOM 
(DSOM) running on all the IBM 
platforms. But these will run over 
many networks besides the 
Internet.
FI: Are you still involved with 
the development of SOM at IBM? 
Ive heard rumors of a SOM3. 
Have you?
RS: I am doing a book on SOM 
3.0, and I work closely with IBM 
on that. However, I have left IBM, 
and I am now a civilian.
Kenton Shaver is a senior Enr 
glish major who plans to enjoy 
SOM when it is available.
v2nnde1 0P v2nnde1 00P
FINA C L FIMR KE TSSW 
FIMR S L OIDI/6 SETSSW
The oldest American University in Europe offers:
More than 75 courses from the University's curriculum 
for credit or audit from a wide range of disciplines *+ 
French Immersion  3-week Program ** Weekend 
Excursions and Day Trips to Historic Regions of Europe 
** Special College Preview" High School Program in Paris 
For complete program information, call or write:
The American University of Paris Summer Programs
Box 22, 31, av. Bosquet, 75343 Paris Cedex 07
Tel. (33/1) 40 62 06 00 Fax (33/1) 47 05 33 49
New York office: Tel. (212) 677-4870
Web site - http://www.aup.fr E-mail - Summer@aup.fr
AUP. The American University of Paris.
from PITTSBURGH
Fares are STUDENT fares, each 
way based on a round trip purchase 
and are subject to change. International 
Student ID may be required. Taxes & 
surcharges are NOT included.
One1ne 4"La One1ne4rgg 4!Ta
opipop& "LA dpif& Bs tgck !/A
ROME 249 CANCN 239
ATHENS 299 TEL AVIV 365
Cm f tin A FREE "Stimmt Travosmauixt!CouncilTravel
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange
On the Web: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
118 Meyran Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
683-1881

---------------------------------------------------

U0No 0vemvb r 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn,
Rape not acknowledged on campus
Cracking the Myth
by Amber Benezra
Last Tuesday, I attended the 
Breaking Silence Seminar. It 
was organized to address the 
questions: What is sexual as
sault? And, how can we help those 
who have been affected by sexual 
assault?
This incredibly valuable pro
gram was divided into two parts: 
looking at the myths and facts of 
rape and the effects on victims, 
and focusing on listening skills 
and how to help those who have 
been assaulted. There were lots 
of people there, and the sexual 
assault advisors who attended 
and ran the seminar were knowl
edgeable and well-organized.
However, an issue that came 
up during a question and answer 
period made me question the gen
der politics on this campus and 
how the University deals with 
the violence of rape.
The first shocking fact is that 
as far as Carnegie Mellon is con
cerned, there has never been a
rape on this campus. Everyone 
knows that this is a total lie. 
Personally, I know two women 
here who have been raped in fra
ternities, and my freshman year, 
two people (one woman and one 
man) were raped on Frew Street. 
Technically, Frew Street is not 
considered university property, 
so the crime statistics remain low, 
and admission information re
ports zero rapes at CMU.
Incoming freshman women get 
distorted facts and a false sense 
of security. Rapes of CMU stu
dents in off-campus housing, 
rapes that occur in Oakland, 
Squirrel Hill, and Shadyside have 
no significance: a rape has to hap
pen on campus to count.
The second shocking fact is that 
in order for a rape to make it into 
those statistics, there has to be a 
conviction. For Carnegie Mellon, 
the rapist must be apprehended, 
tried, and convicted for a real 
rape to have occurred.
Unfortunately, less than half 
of all rapes are ever reported, and 
only 3% of all rapes ever lead to 
conviction.
Even more unfortunate for rape 
victims here is the fact that Penn
sylvania law requires that there 
to be physical evidence (bodily 
harm such as bruises, cuts, etc.) 
to prove a rape occurred.
So what is CMU telling vic
tims of violent crime? That the 
terrifying violation, powerlessCMU does not offer 
adequate veggie fare
VEGGIES, from page LI
Martin felt that Dining Ser
vices was not providing him ad
equate meals to maintain his 
health, and has been working to 
have Dining Services either sup
port a vegan diet or to let fresh
man vegans be excused from be
ing required to purchase a meal 
plan.
He said, What is provided at 
the Highlander Veg-Out is in no 
way adequate. What is served 
mainly is disgustingly old, dry, 
dead hummus and uncooked rice. 
By law, this school must provide 
those of us that live a vegan 
lifestyle with adequate meals. As 
a freshman, my meal plan is re
quired. During the week of orien
tation, I met with Dining Ser
vices where I was told that I could 
not be let off my plan because it is 
not a religious or a physical need.
What is happening to me at 
CMU is inhumane and illegal. If 
it continues to occur, I will be 
forced to seek legal help. This is 
wrong, he added.
Some students are vegetarian
because of religious or spiri
tual beliefs.
Well, I am a veggie by the 
right of life. Religion has taught 
me that importance of life. I 
am a Jian, the preachers of 
ahimsa or, in plain English, 
non-violence. I have been very 
much disappointed by the at
mosphere CMU provides for 
vegetarians. The dining ser
vice is one very big disaster. 
All they can provide is hummus 
and mixed beans (sometimes 
there is semi-cooked rice and 
raw pasta). Maybe a chemical 
analysis of the hummus would 
bring them to their senses, 
said an anonymous freshman 
vegetarian.
For further information about 
vegetarianism at CMU, sub
scribe to the as80cs.cmu-vegetarians bboard. If you would 
like to support Nathan Martin 
in his quest for recognition of 
vegan / vegetarian lifestyles, he 
can be reached through email 
at nmm+andrew.cmu.edu.
ness, and pain they have sur
vived doesnt count?
To prevent bad publicity, 
Carnegie Mellon refuses to rec
ognize the experiences of people 
who have been raped, and ulti
mately denies that sexual vio
lence against women (and some
times men) is a frightening and 
prevalent force on this campus. 
In the foreword of Fraternity 
Gang Rape, Judge Lois G. Forer 
comments on a similar force that 
is ignored by universities across 
the U.S. At present, American 
colleges are failing to meet their 
obligations to the students and to 
their parents. They do not pro
vide a safe, secure environment. 
So long as any university toler
ates crime, vicious behavior, and 
dubious ethical standards, it be
trays the students and the entire 
nation. ,
The third shocking fact is that 
if a rape occurs on CMU campus, 
the CMU Police, not the Pitts
burgh Police, have jurisdiction. 
Not that I dont have faith in our 
private police force, but this is 
symptomatic of the universities 
trying to keep violent crimes qui
etly contained in campus com
munities.
If the victim chooses, they can 
go to a university disciplinary 
board rather than the police. This 
is a really bad choice that rape 
victims are often encouraged to 
make. Forer remarks, Even
those most familiar with campus 
crime continue to view it as an inhouse problem that can be solved 
within the college. A naively be
nign solution, frequently ex
pressed, proposes building com
munity among students and en
couraging them to report inci
dents of violence and rape.
Such steps are necessary, but 
all too often universities do little, 
if anything, to discipline the of
fending students, and hardly ever 
are the criminal offenses handed 
over to the police for criminal 
prosecution.
I havent even broached other 
central themes that should come 
up during a rape discussion. Such 
themes include: what rape is, how 
it is incorrectly portrayed as a 
sexual rather than violent crime, 
and how 85 percent of the time, 
women are raped by someone they 
know, how it reflects skewed 
power relations between men and 
women on campus.
With Carnegie Mellons policy 
of denial, refusal to acknowledge 
that rapes happen here, and mis
leading statistics, programs like 
Breaking Silence will never 
have the full effect they should. 
Although the seminar provides 
an important service (and I ap
plaud the organizers), it still func
tions within a system of silence.
Amber Benezra is a senior Enmajor.
Chefs abound at CMU
COOKING, from page LI
Sophomore CS major Pablo 
Mayrgundter doesnt believe that 
anyone learns to cook or that reci
pes are important in preparing a 
meal.
He said, If you want to cook, 
you use your intuition and thats 
all you need.
Famous for his own concoctions 
(in his mind), if one were to put 
his recipes down on paper, a 
maj or ingredient would have 
to be a confident attitude in 
the kitchen.
Many students find 
that eating together is 
an important part of 
social interaction, 
for everyMark Eggert/Tartan Artist
one, especially for residents off 
campus.
I love to eat with other people, 
but I hate cooking with more than 
one other person. Its frustrating 
with more than one cook in the 
kitchen. I get a really good feel
ing when I make someone a din
ner, Mayrgundter said.
While Gutshall finds that she 
doesnt have 
time to sit 
down and 
cook a whole 
meal for her
self, let alone 
others, dinner 
parties are a fun 
way to get to
gether.
We [she and 
her friends] have 
a potluck dinner ev
ery Saturday night, 
she said. Cooking is one 
of the most important skills 
Ive picked up in college, said 
Schonthal. Im not too sure about 
my plans in the future, but I do 
know that having a family is im
portant to me, and cooking will 
be something that I will be doing 
for a long time.
World news reported
By RAHUL AGGARWAL
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
 NIGERIA  Nigerias 
military government showed no 
signs of giving in to world pow
ers in the row sparked off by 
the hanging of nine minority 
activists, including author Ken 
Saro-Wiwa. Nigerias ambas
sadors were recalled from 
abroad in response to similar 
action taken by over 12 coun
tries, including the USA and 
Britain.
 ISRAEL  Acting Prime 
Minister Shimon Peres, hop
ing to form a new government 
within a week, said it would 
take five years for Israel to 
reach peace with its Arab neigh
bors, including Syria and Leba
non. He also vowed to fulfill 
Yitzhak Rabins legacy by prom
ising that Israel would meet 
the deadlines for handing over 
West Bank lands to Palestin
ian self-rule.
 SYRIAPresident Hafez 
al-Assad met with Egyptian 
Foreign Minister, Amr Moussa, 
to discuss peace talks with Is
rael.
 SAUDI ARABIA  On
Monday, a suspected car bomb 
exploded in the security-conscious capital, Riyadh, ripping 
through a military training 
center run by the US. Six for
eigners were killed, including 5 
Americans. The person respon
sible for the bomb blast has not 
yet been identified.
 SRI LANKA_  In wartorn northern Sri Lanka, two 
Tamil Tiger suicide bombers 
blew themselves up in Colombo, 
killing at least 15 other people. 
Akila, the military commander 
of the rebel Tigers female wing, 
was killed in a fierce govern
ment offensive against the 
Tamil stronghold of Jaffha. She 
was allegedly involved in the 
assassination of Indian Prime 
Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, in 
1991. The government claims 
that the month-long offensive 
has claimed the lives of at least 
319 soldiers and 1,459 guerril
las. Around 400,000 civilians 
have fled their homes.
 NEPAL  49 people were 
killed in one of Nepals worst 
avalanches. Sixteen of these 
were members of a Japanese 
trekking party.
 ALGERIAFormer gen
eral of Algerias powerful mili
tary, Liamine Zeroual, seemed 
set to become Algerias elected 
head of state for the next five 
years, according to early poll
ing results in Thursdays presi
dential election. Provisional 
results from most of the 48 
states showed him leading with 
about 58% of the poll.
 POLAND  As the elec
tion entered its last day, Polish 
President Lech Walesa 
launched a strong attack on 
his ex-communist opponent, 
telling the left-leaning govern
ment that it should resign if he
 AZHERBAIJANPresi
dent Haydar Aliyev seems cer
tain to secure Baku, a 
Transcaucasian state of 
Azherbaijan, in a parliamen
tary election on Sunday, which 
his party is more or less guar
anteed to win.
0 BOSNIA  The four year 
war in Bosnia finally appears 
to be coming to an end. If 
progress continues, the 
planned NATO implementa
tion force, including up to
20,000 Americans, may start 
deploying in Bosnia in the next 
few weeks. The deal will allow 
over 100,000 Croatian refu
gees, who fled the fighting in 
1991, to return. The peace deal 
is expected to come this week.
 IRELAND  Gerry 
Adams, head of the IRAs po
litical wing, Sinn Fein, warned 
Britain that the deadlocked 
Northern Ireland peace pro
cess may lead to renewed vio
lence, if something isnt done 
soon.
AUSTRIA  A deadline 
for the final implementation of 
a European arms reduction 
treaty passed with negotiators 
looking for a compromise deal 
between Moscow and NATO 
over weapons limits on Russias 
borders.
Source: Reuters Clari World 
Briefs and the Electronic Tele
graph .
[Ed Note: The above article 
is presented by the IS U [Inter
national Student Union]. The 
views expressed here are not 
necessarily those of the ISU. The 
ISU is a student group that 
works to increase international 
awareness and cultural under
standing at CMU. It is open to 
all students, regardless of their 
nationality.
br11ov 9 5vTusou
-------You THE TAREN AE
ttttttttttttttttttB1N asdv
Choose a dentist you can count on for life. Call the office of Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D. Youll 
meet a dentist who combines the latest in dental technology with something that cant be measured 
by a test or a machinea dedication to treating you as a human being, not just a set of teeth.
BOARD CERTIFIED-PAIN MANAGEMENT
Fellow-Academy of General Dentistry 
Diplomate-American Academy of Pain Management 
Master-Academy of General Dentistry 
Fellow-Intemational College of Craniomandibular Orthopedics 
Fellow-Academy of Dentistry International 
Fellow-Pierre Fauchard Academy
MICHAEL S. MELNICK
D.M.D., M.A.G.D.
AND ASSOCIATES 
The Park Plaza Suite 207 
128 North Craig Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 688-9000 OR (412) 687-8888 
(800) 732-7645
GENERAL DENTISTRY
 T.M.J. (Temporomandibular Joint) Disorders 
 Porcelain and Gold Crowns and Bridges 
 Orthodontics for Adults and Children 
 Endodontic (Root Canal) Treatment 
 Periodontal (Gum) Therapy 
I.V. Sedation/Anesthesia 
Cosmetic Dentistry 
 Pediatric Dentistry 
 Oral Surgery
 An Outpatient Comprehensive 
Multidisciplinary Pain Treatment Center 
Accredited by the American Academy of 
Pain Management
 Highest Standards for Infection Control 
& SterilizationOffice Inspected Thru 
Voluntary OSHA Compliance Program
 Nitrous Oxide Sedation
 I.V. Conscious Sedation Under Personal 
Supervision of a Hospital Trained 
Anesthesiologist
 Medical StaffShadyside Hospital
A Carnegie Mellon Graduate with a Tradition of Excellence
Mastercard, Visa, Discover, Novus, American Express Accepted. Interest-free payment plans available.
Day and Evening Hours by Appointment
 Security Building  Indoor Valet Parking
 Most Insurance Plans Accepted
Pholo by Jonas  1995 Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D

---------------------------------------------------

BRRR. ITS FREEZING OUT 
THERE / I DONT WANT TO 
LEAVE W NICE WARM BED. 
-
ON DAMS L\K THIS. I WISH 
MOM WOULD CONE IN, LAN 
AN EXTRA BLANKET O/ER WE. 
PAT MS UEAD, AND AS I 
SINK INTO THE PIU.OW UNOtR 
THE WEIGHT OF TUE CQNERS,
------------.SHE'D SAM...
a leis as it/'
THIS IS -WE-miEP TIMErvE au w deegnb
GDt^-Tt >A\SSTMtJS.' 
LEft
NEE! m iHTCSTiHES 
oust burst tupsush
J4XSTOWKH WMJ./
I 5H0ULD GET SOWE MORE 
AMD SEE IF I CAN GET 
OJT Of MNTH CLASS.
Hi#
\
\\\ p
THE PACE OF MODERN LIFE 
IS ALL WRONG. IT MAKES 
EVERX m AH ORDEAL. 
EVEWBOOfS EXHAUSTED, 
STK035ED OUT.
IS NT IT WEIRD THAT ONES 
OWN PAST CAN SEEM 
UNREAL? THIS \S L\
SAS. A SLOBBERING NUDIST 
WITH LESS L\VCE LINK 
SAUSAGES.
DILBERT  by Scott Adams
OUR GOAL 15 TO WRITE 
BUG-FREE SOFTWARE. 
I'LL PAV A TEN-DOLLAR 
BONUS FOR EVERY BUG 
YOU FIND AND FIX.a
THE COMPANY PAYS /AEI WANT \0U TO DO
TEN DOLLARS FOR EVERYVOUR LITTLE RAT DANCE
BUG I FIX IN fAYON /AY KEYBOARD 50
CODE, RATBERT.I'LL HAVE L0T5 OF BUGS
TO FIX.j 
jv / I 11 fyxih
il \ 11+ rCm
/AY ACCOttPLISH/AENT THIS 
WEEK IS THAT IVE 
BECO/AE AN AGENT OF 
CHANGE.
0 lhvckf yw fk-yfw 
cUhvk 4kUyN0hfv cUyc 
oe1gDda,g2 ch y 
FMcMfk hl ckyL-hfJb
MOT 50 GOOD. 
YOU TUST 
AUTHORED A 
WEB BROWSER.;
I'VE BECOME SLIGHTLY I 
/AORE CYNICAL. j
KEEP UP 
THE GOOD 
WORK, 
BUDDY.
I USED TO WRITE 
PROGRAMS USING 
PUNCH CARDS... 
BUT I'D RATHER 
BE FISHING...
LOOK, YOU BEARDED 
ROAD APPLE, IF YOU 
ANSWER ONE /AORE OF 
/AY QUESTIONS WITH 
AN IRRELEVANT STORY I'LL 1 
SNAP YOU INTO 
t NEXT WEEK!!r<x
SO/AETI/^E NEXT WEEK...
LOOKS LIKE 
Oi A HOLE IN
(ml E SPACE' J/I^A gdT2
dl CONTINUUfA
DID YOU 
HEAR A 
SNAPT 1

---------------------------------------------------

y
i3EMPER E^I DEL-15 
EPISODE 10 
DANIEL YAUGER
"DEATH IS NOT THE WORST; 
RATHER, IN VAIN TO WISH 
FOR DEATH, AND NOT TO 
COMPASS IT." 
-SOPHOCLES. "ELECTRA"
I' 'rgjP >'
HE HAD BEEN AT THE CHURCH BEFORE. 
HOCKING OUR FAITH WITH HIS PRESENCE. 
I DIDNT PAY ANY ATTENTION TO HIM 
UNTIL THAT NIGHT.
k\. . -i V-ifc- ~T ,
r*u&R
UMBILICAL-CORP FRE.P
A&)
c
by NICHOLAS CASCIftTO ,TR.
SoKKf- the fiml lEorAK^ir'/CATEO-OKY IS "AiMiRlcAN HOUPAYS.
I ARE row F6LIAS REA7T? RCMErtSEfc,, 
\ LOSER C-&T5 SE HEAPEP ANP 
V^THKOWN IN THE OVEN I
"T OM d/wrWt-3,ooo.oo|i-l,ioo.oo 1-1,100.00
iqss
By *\Art 
GRoEMIfJG
rHtAotti' FCC. A N.
BeHEAWtO'? OOH, > , 6<XH? RHaME.' WHftT I A boo Afte., /

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Volume 90, Issue 11The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania20 November 1995
Ryan Rhoades/Tartan Artist
By SHARMELA VENKATAS UBBAN
Tartan Calendar Editor
I try to wear clothes that reflect my personal
ity, said Andy Seymour, a junior psychology ma
jor. Clothing is an immediate reflection of ones 
personality, and considering the diversity of the 
student body at CMU, a wealth of different styles 
are expressed. For some, fashion is unheard of; 
clothing is a mere necessity. For others who never 
leave the house looking less than immaculate, 
style is imperative. Those people, however, are a 
minority on this campus. For many, a walk down 
the Cut provides ample evidence that fashion is 
simply not CMUs forte.
There are some interesting trends around here, 
but on the whole this isnt a fashion-conscious 
environment, said Allie King, a sophomore mod
em languages major. When I wake up in the 
morning, my main concern is that my entire body 
is covered, she said.
I see a lot of potential  students here like 
clothes and are interested in their appearance but 
just dont want to admit it. I think they want to 
dress cool, they just dont know how, said Scott 
Zawitz, a senior IM major who works as a manager 
for Gap Kids. But perhaps the problem isnt en
tirely that people dont know how to dress well; it 
may be more a matter of time and priorities. Most 
would rather finish a problem set than plan an 
outfit for the next day. The pressures of school 
simply dont leave much time for style. Some 
people in MCS and CIT should be arrested by the 
fashion police, said Seymour.
I think style is important, said Freddy Anzures,
CMUstylin 
with its own 
funky fashion
_rrr
Hey, at least we're dressed
a sophomore industrial design major.  The way I 
dress is representative of many things about me, 
including the way I was brought up, he added. 
From a Catholic school background, Anzures has 
always had a clean-cut image, but he finds that his 
tastes in clothing are widespread.
I try not to come off as too grungy or alternative
 I iron my clothes everyday, said Anzures. My 
favorite places to shop in town are the Gap or 
Banana Republic.
present sense of fashion, according to Zawitz, The 
90s characterize a return to the classics, he said. 
People are happy with a pair of khakis and a 
denim shirt. Of course, you have the retro thermals 
as well, but I think the main concern is comfort in 
style, he said. Do CMU students know how to 
dress? People at CMU need to wake up a half hour 
earlier and get themselves together, Zawitz said.
In many cases, students choose their battles, 
opting not to worry about whats hot and trendy.
I see a lot of potential  students here like clothes and 
are interested in their appearance but just dont want to 
admit it I think they want to dress cool, they just dont 
know how.
 Scott Zawitz, Gap Kids manager
Not everyone shares his enthusiasm to be a 
trendy Gap kid. Hafeez Raji, a senior Industrial 
Design major, tends to avoid those very places. He 
is not a big fan of fashion trends or shopping in 
general, despite whatever impressions his apparel 
might give away. I go shopping once a year. I dont 
have a fashion image, regardless of what people 
think, he added.
I like free clothes  I go that way, Raji said. 
When I do shop, I really like that store Gabriels in 
the South Side.
If stores like the Gap seem popular with students 
these days, its because such stores cater to our
My shopping extravaganzas arent very extrava
gant, said Denise Delagado, a sophomore in the 
BHA program, who traipses around in a blue 
swede jacket that surely must have come right out 
of the Versace fall collection. I actually got it at St. 
Vincent DePaul, a local thrift store, she said.
Fashion can be glamorous and fun, but on the 
whole its damaging, said Delagado.
One of the more fashionably correct students on 
campus, Jessica Wang, a senior psychology and 
industrial management major, feels that a few 
tidbits here and there would help the average 
CMU students wardrobe immensely. A good pair
of jeans, tailored pants, neutral colors, she said.
As far as shopping in town, Wang heads to the 
mall or to Saks. I usually get the majority of my 
clothes from Hong Kong or L.A., she said.
Wang couldnt deny that she definitely projected 
a certain image through her clothing, from her 
clunky black shoes to the leather jacket she sported, 
which she bought in Paris. Comfort is important 
but being the head of an organization [Asian Stu
dent Association], its a good idea to not dress like 
a slob, she added.
Image is important to everyone, but not every
one portrays it through their clothing, said Somya 
Gutshall, a junior industrial designer. I cant say 
that fashion is all that important to me, but what 
you wear does affect the way people perceive you. 
According to Gutshall, fashion in Pittsburgh is 
not as advanced as in other big cities. You can 
definitely get away with more in New York or LA, 
she said. If I wear the same things here, people 
wondering what the hell youre doing.
To avoid such problems, senior physics major 
Rudolfo Goetz-Blohm wears clothing that his 
mother buys and numerically labels to simplify his 
fashion dilemmas. When I wake up, I have a list of 
combinations to choose from, he said. For in
stance, I can wear pants number two with shirt 
number five, shoes number six and underwear 
number 92,  he added.
Everyone has their own unique image here, 
said junior mechanical engineer Anat Gal-Or, who 
is potentially the poster girl for the pull-on-sweatsIm late-to-class cult look.
No, CMU isnt very trendy, she said, but we all 
definitely have a certain look about us.

---------------------------------------------------

WinterFest
cember
Go ice skating at Schenley, take a riverboat casino cruise in the gym, 
chow down on gingerbread, admire the ice sculptures, ... 
and just relax and have fun! Sponsored by Student Activities, SDC, 
the Crew Team, the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs and AB. 
Paid for in part by your student activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

0No 0vemvb P 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn,Un
Musician gobbles 
slice of humble pie
By PAUL TABACHNECK
'Vartan Staffwriter
Meeting Ben Harper is like 
approaching a book thats already 
Jjpen, and whose chapters youve 
already read.
Despite the critical acclaim for 
jiis last two ingenious albums, 
Welcome to the Cruel World and 
Fight for Your Mind, Harper 
seems to have eaten humble pie 
jfor breakfast, lunch, and dinner 
tjach day for the last two years, as 
he puts his hand out, manages a 
wan smile, and says, simply, Im 
Pen.
When complimented on his 
jiumility, he said, You have to be 
humble. In music, you must be 
humble, because music is a gift, 
and you have to treat that with 
respect.
! That respect for music seems to 
flow throughout Harpers backup
 j)and; the three-piece rhythm sec
tion (dubbed the Innocent Crimihals) displays extreme skill withjut swollen heads.
Bens in the middle; its Bens 
Show.
And they get their time to shine 
jas well; Ben works in breaks that 
serve as forums for the band mem
bers to show off their chops, in:luding an incredible solo by bassst Juan Nelson, and an unbe
lievable face-off between Oliver 
Charles, the primary drummer, 
'and percussionist Leon Mobley. 
Harpers sound is influenced
asses in the studio.
While it sounds like Bens ego 
is popping out a bit, its not unjus
tified; the sound on his albums 
(both of which were co-produced 
by Harper and Plenier) is flaw
less, andincredible in its density. 
It should sound good; hes ex
tremely selective with his amps 
and slide guitars (his new CD 
even has a credit for Ben Elder, 
his slide guitar detective).
He uses breaks in the action to 
his advantage; Silence is a magic 
note, he said. All music is crafted 
around silence.
His writing style is best de
scribed as free-for-all. No rules, 
he said. Music comes first, fine. 
If the lyrics come first, fine. Some
times they come together. You 
cant put limits on that.... Ive got 
about 20 songs right now that Im 
just not done with.
But would he say that hes got 
a definite style? Oh, sometimes 
Ill start writing something, and 
say, Well, this doesnt sound like 
me, but I just keep writing, and 
itll come out all right.
He relates the craft to chairmaking: You go into the studio 
of a chairmaker, and some will be 
waiting for their finish, some will 
be drying, some are just being 
started.
Theyll all come out at one point 
or another, but thats where 
theyre at right now.
Ben confesses that Cruel World 
was not his true debut: Me and a
You have to be humble. In music, 
you must be humble, because music 
is a gift, and you have to treat that 
pith respect. 
 Ben Harper, musician
leavily by rock and roll  Jimi 
Hendrix, Otis Redding, and many 
others have been stated as influ
ences  but what really distin
guishes him is his ability on the 
aptop slide guitar, an instrument 
;hat in these times has been tragi:ally reduced to a novelty in popuar music. Its hardly a novelty in 
Pens sound, however; in fact, it 
seems to be his primary instru
ment.
You have to find what makes 
N)u whole in music. The slide 
guitar made me feel whole, 
Harper said about why with rock 
[n roll influences he decided to 
up the slide guitar. He also 
Said that he owes that influence 
\o the Delta blues.
Since the release of Fight for 
Your Mind, Harper has been tour
ing exhaustively, opening for acts 
inch as John Lee Hooker and 
Luscious Jackson. However, topight he is the primary guest, 
uid hes got a large crowd; call it 
he power of WYEP 91.3/FM, the 
ocal listener-sponsored radio staion that has been playing both 
2Ds flat.
Its a wearying schedule, and 
3en claims himself to be as tired 
^ a racehorse.
_ He mentions his affinity for 
skateboards  the video for his 
atest single, Ground on Down, is 
ull of great skating footage mixed 
rith shots of Ben playing his 
aPtop and singing in the middle 
a skate bowland his wish to 
tod some old gear that no one 
ses, and I slap my forehead; I 
ted a crappy Z-Board that I 
vanted to give him. I promise to 
>ive it to his record label reprelentative to give to him, and we 
Qove on to the next subject: his 
ttoducing collaborator, J.P. 
lenier.
J-P. and I have known each 
)ther for 10 years, and weve been 
vrking together for about five. 
Nobody comes with a contract; 
^ was my homeboy, he was from 
inland empire [of San Fran
co], which is where Im from, 
^d he said T want to work with 
,0U- And were the shit in the 
itudio.
Man, we kick ass. Im not even 
>nna mention any names, but 
ye d kick a lot of these weak fucks
friend who played acoustic gui
tar recorded one time to a directto-disc machine, like, wed play, 
and it would immediately be on a 
record.
Included amongthe tracks were 
Pleasure and Pain and Mom
mas Got a Girlfriend Now, both 
of which can be found on Cruel 
World. There are only 2,000 cop
ies, though, so the search for a 
copy would be difficult.
The time comes for Ben to go 
back to his hotel and get some 
rest (I think he fell asleep in the 
middle of one of his answers) be
fore the 9 pm show; my peer re
porter and I are satisfied that a 
good conversation was had by all, 
and go down to Primanti Bros, 
buzzing with the excitement of 
having spoken to someone so well 
placed in his position.
Later that night, after a phe
nomenal opening act out of Mil
waukee called Citizen King, I 
have the almost religious experi
ence that is Ben Harpers show. 
He knocked down fantastic ren
ditions of Bum One Down,  
Whipping Boy, Gold To Me, 
Fight For Your Mind, Ground 
on Down, Excuse Me Mr., and 
a fantastic finale with Like a 
King, which segues into his mu
sical rendition of Maya Angelous 
Ill Rise.
For the latter, Ben stands up, 
singing with one fist in the air, 
and after the first verse, he walks 
away from the microphone, sing
ing out to the now-silent Pitts
burgh bar crowd, his voice bounc
ing off the back wall and seeping 
right into his audiences souls.
He ends the song in a rousing 
gospel tempo, clapping in rhythm 
with the audience, who had been 
sucked into his grasp.
Harper won a lot of apprecia
tion that night, and he deserved 
it.
I stood in the back of the line for 
autographs that night, and when 
I reached him, I told him to go get 
some sleep; he had earned it. He 
thanked me with a genuine em
brace, and began to pack up and
go-I only hope he got that rest; 
although Im sure it wouldnt have 
affected his next performance in 
the least.
CD ROM game show tests knowledge
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
An unlit On the Air sign 
appears against a white back
ground. Then, in the back
ground, the general hubbub of 
a television studio is audible. 
After the contestants give their 
names, the stage manager gives 
insrtuctions. Then, the show be
gins.
But this isnt any regular old 
game show. This is a CD-ROM, 
and its playing on my computer. 
And its not just any old com
puter trivia game. This one 
blows them all away. Its called 
You Dont Know Jack, and it 
proves that I certainly dont. A 
game that focuses on your ears 
more than your eyes, YDKJ will 
make you laugh. I guarantee it. 
From the witty, sarcastic host 
to the bizarre commercials, I 
had a very hard time not smil
ing.
The game play is something 
like this. In Rounds 1 and 2, you 
get to choose a category. An 
example might be Anthropol
ogy 101: Brady Culture or In
diana Jones and Temple Bnai 
Brith. After choosing your cat
egory, you get your question. 
(Everything is being read to you 
by your hostwith a few interjections!) The question willmost 
likely be something based on
the category. Go figure. But given 
the categories, you can just imag
ine what the questions are like! 
Anyway, if you answer it right, 
you get money.
If you answer it wrong, you lose 
money. Rather straightforward. 
Oh yeah. Each player has a 
screw. And if you know that 
your opponent doesnt have a clue 
as to the answer, 
you can screw him.
That forces him to 
answer the ques
tion. Of course, if 
he gets it right, then 
you get screwed and 
lose money.
Within these first 
two rounds, there 
might be the occa
sional Gibberish 
Question. Instead 
of a conventional 
(ha!) multiplechoice question, you 
are posed with a 
common phrase, in 
gibberish form.
For example, from the category 
Sayings That Have Annoyed 
America, you might get Quelp, 
jive gollen, man pie rant smet 
pup!
If you know the answer, you 
have to buzz in and type it in. 
Dont worry too much about spell
ing thoughthis program has a 
great parser. In this case, the
answer would be Help, Ive 
fallen, and I cant get up!
The third and final round is 
called The Jack Attack. Basi
cally, its the matching game, 
and its in a lightning-round form. 
So, as words go by on the screen, 
if they match (in relation to the 
category you chose) you buzz in. 
If its a correct match, you gain
 Jellyvision
$2,000. If youre wrong, you lose 
$2,000. This round can send the 
winners into the ground. It can 
also be the best chance for a 
comeback by the losers. There 
are random things spread 
throughout the game, but Im 
not going to tell you about them. 
Youll just have to buy it!
As a game, its pretty fun. The
audio keeps you interested, and 
the questions keep you on your 
toes.
You can pick up to three play
ers at a time, and choose either 
the seven or the 21 question 
game. With more than 800 ques
tions, theres a lot of variety.
But youll find that while you 
wont get a repeating category 
within a single game, if you 
play multiple games youre 
bound to run into a category 
youve already seen. And that 
can lead to an unfair advan
tage.
Just ask my friends. And if 
you do happen to hit all 800 
questions, dont worry; there are 
already plans for a second vol
ume of the game. The game has 
been recommended for those 
of age 18 or older. Yes, there is 
a lot of innuendo and mature 
content. But it makes it all the 
more fun!
You Dont Know Jack is put 
out by Berkeley Systems, the 
same people who brought us 
the zillion varieties of Afterdark screen savers. Practically 
everyone can enjoy this game, 
because its available for both 
Mac and Windows.
The list price is something 
like $29.99, but you might be 
able to get it cheaper through 
mail order. I suggest you look 
into getting it.
1 like the fact that QUALCOMM is run by technical people like 9r. if
Andy Cox, BSEE Brown 
University 85, knows a 
superstar when he sees one. % I 
learned about Dr. Jacobs from one of 
my professors, he recalls, then later 
about Dr. Viterbi, the man who invented 
the Viterbi Decoder. Turns out they 
started their own company in San ^5*- 
Diego. m After nearly six years, Andy 
has seen QUALCOMM grow from 100 
employees to more than 2,500. # QUALCOMM 
products and systems include the highly successful OmniTRACS 
satellite-based mobile communications system, CDMA-based cellular 
phones, Personal Communications Systems (PCS), low earth orbit (LEO) 
satellite communication system and much more. # If your major is 
Electrical/Electronics Engineering, Computer Science or Computer 
Engineering, visit our website at http://www.qualcomm.com/ You may 
also mail/fax your resume (include transcripts) to College Relations, P.O. 
Box 919013, San Diego, CA 92191-9013, fax (619) 658-2110 or E-mail:
Resumes@qualcomm.com , . .
Attend a special previewQualcomrn is an Equal  . ___
of the QUALCOMM storyOpportunity Employer.
at 7:00pm, November 28th, 
Student Center, Room 206
Qualcomm
IMCORPORATED

---------------------------------------------------

Uyf0No 0vemvb r 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn,
Coffee offers strongest entertainment at art exhibit
By BRADLEY W. ZIMMERMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Well, the coffee was good...
Like a brilliantly dazzling prom queen, 
the 1995 Carnegie International blinds 
the public with exotic flash, hoping the 
 onlookers will not realize the lack of 
substance and individuality under the 
media-blitz skin. The anticipation for
 this lackluster show hit fall stride dur
ing the festivities for the Carnegies Cen
tennial earlier this year, an event which 
arguably was more culturally and so
cially fulfilling. In fact, parallels can be 
drawn to the past two Whitney Bienni
als  works which continued to cham
pion the myth of post-modernism and 
the separatist attitudes which fester on 
its underbelly. In the city that is home to 
artistic watersheds like the Andy Warhol 
Museum and the experimental Mattress
 Factory, such an exposition is disheart
ening in its mediocrity and redundancy.
Its not that there is nothing good at 
the show, but the overabundance of subpar and retro-this and retro-that, hell, 
just unoriginal work, overshadows the 
better stuff to such an extent that the 
visitor is left with the impartial feeling 
of Gee, I am at an art exhibition. Art is 
supposed to evoke some sort of reaction, 
be it shock or melancholy, and this is 
precisely where the International fails.
Firstly, the opening reception for uni
versity students and faculty was a har
binger of sorts. Combine learned instruc- these examples almost made me 
tors with a bunch of loudmouth football change my mind. Hmmm, we have half 
players from WVU and the usual assort- recognizable figures painted with a 
ment of people who heeded the call of substance resembling sheep dip, typical 
free food at the Carnegie, and an atmo- metaphorical train crashes, and the work 
sphere rife with moronic comments and of Agnes Martin, whose affiliation with 
random acts of unadulterated 
ignorance is inevitable. Heres a 
smattering of the Einsteinian 
chatter:
Wow, this person cant paint 
worth shit. Wait a minute, I think 
I see a tit...
Oh, this girl is African. I guess 
this piece has a concept.
And of course the old standby:
This would go excellent with 
my living room set.
Now back to the actual art.
The trademark of the show, and 
the opening piece, is Robert Therriens Under the Table, a 
hyperscale table and chairs 
which are approximately three 
times the size of the audience.
These things are sturdy as any
thing, but ah-ah-ah ... you have 
to suppress the urge to climb on 
them, as they were meant for.
The security staff will only allow 
you to feel the texture. Bril
liant. It feels like a chair...
In the next room, the downhill slide 
begins with the first series of paintings.
I dont believe the fashionable concep
tion that painting is a dead art form, but
Mr. Originality to give em the boot.
There are some rather disturbing pho
tos by Cindy Sherman, seemingly Barbie 
dolls in various states of torture and 
dismemberment with real features su
perimposed over them. Multi-media art
ist Tony Oursler submitted a se
ries of figures with balloon heads 
and footage of interviews with 
psychiatric patients projected 
upon them.
His stuff blew me away, but 
unfortunately while viewing 
Guilty (the figure of a woman 
trapped under a bed with a sexu
ally teasing interview projection) 
some typically black-clad female 
ahhhh-tist from the Pittsburgh 
Art Institute pondered it for all 
of 30 seconds and then pro
nounced I just love art thats 
about blow-jobs. I left immedi
ately.
Also falling into the mediocre 
category is the Franz West sun
dae explosion exhibition, which 
has so much pink it is revolting, 
Graphic courtesy Carnegie Internation 1995 and Marlene Dumass sink 
Robert Therrien stands with his mammoth work Under washes, whose only saving grace
the Table  a really big table and set of chairs.
the color-field school of Rothko and 
Barnett Newman results in, well, pale 
blue window blinds. The kindest thing I 
can say is that she is about 50 years too 
late for this style. Modem painting needs
is that one of the portraits looks 
like Perry Farrell. Oh hell, shes 
foreign, so there must be a concept...
Gary Hills sensory overload room was 
so disturbing that Im only now recover
ing. That is worth the price of admis
sion. By the way, any of you who missed
his on-campus lecture are blithe: 
neederheads; you should all be taking 
advantage of these things.
One of the questionable aspects ofthe 
International is the inclusion of Rikriti, 
piece. In it, two helpers (I was a volun. 
teer for this) prepare free curry for any. 
one who would like some. I fail to seethe 
meaning of this work, not to mention tlie 
fact that this is the third or fourth tirrje 
hes presented it in the last three years 
Once again, how about some original;, 
ity?
What else? Blocky woodcut portrait^ 
an ambiguous steel piece, some poorfy 
placed multi-hued resin blocks, a 
cramped, rusty cloth and wood cubby, 
hole unit, and a fixation with packaging 
furniture. Ho hum.
The 1995 Carnegie International fails 
on many fronts  be it the heinous lack 
of originality, poor placement of the art; 
or paranoia on the part of the stuffy 
security guards.
True, the challenge of how marij 
things can we touch before we get tossedi 
was an interesting game for five mini 
utes or so, but I dont think anyone is 
going to try to swipe a 50 lb. puce resin 
block, so please, dont follow me arountj 
like a mall guard. The good stuff is realty 
good, but I personally am not up f# 
another round of find the diamond iff 
this here desert. Do yourself a favor. Gti 
to the Mattress Factory and see some 
real art.
Comic book #20 makes magical moment
Comic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
Ive always been a fan of the under
dogs. My favorite hockey player is Clark 
Gillies, who is unknown to even the avid 
hockey fan. Comic books are the same. 
Books of Magic is my favorite book on 
the stands now, and its quietly the best 
all-around book in my opinion. The back 
issues are cheap, it never sells out, Tori 
Amos doesnt mention it in one of her 
whiny songs (although there is an im
plied Amos concert that two characters 
attend. Nikki  Can my hair be red 
when I grow up? Khara  Sure. Why 
not? You want to learn to play piano 
too?), and you dont see scores of people 
wearing t-shirts of it, so Id say that' it 
can be classified as underrated.
Books of Magic #20 came out last week. 
This issue was the epilogue to the five 
part Playgrounds storyline. With books 
that have such well-defined storylines, I 
prefer to read the entire cycle in one 
sitting. That means Ive gone half a year 
without reading my favorite book. Id 
still buy it every month, but I just flip 
through it and bury in my box until the
conclusion. It was torture waiting.
If you arent familiar with Books of 
Magic, its the coming of age tale of a 
young magician, Timothy Hunter (not 
TimHunter, right wing oftheVancouver 
Canucks), who was introduced in the 
Books of Magic limited series. If you 
havent read this series, then save up 
$20 and buy the trade paperback. Its 
Neil Gaimans best work outside of Sand
man, andit has beautiful painting by the 
likes of Charles Vess and John Bolton. 
Even if magic turns you off, you can still 
enjoy this book. If you experienced grow
ing up, having a crush, a first kiss, fear 
of losing someone, then theres some
thing in the book for you. I think the 
main reason this book is labeled Sug
gested for Mature Readers is that kids 
wouldnt appreciate it as much as older 
readers who can look back nostalgically 
on their fives.
Playgrounds neatly wraps up a lot of 
subplots that John Ney Rieber has been 
weaving for over a year and a half. I 
wouldnt recommend starting here be
cause theres a lot of the plot you wouldnt 
understand. We still want to see Tim to 
solidify his relationship with his sweet
heart Molly and the reunion of Araquel 
with Khara and Nikki.
If that sounds too mushy for you, dont 
worry. Four out of the six issues take 
place in Hell, so it isnt all hugs and 
kisses. For the most part the book is 
serious, yet once in a while Rieber gets a 
little crazy, especially when it concerns
evil. One of the Dukes of Hell, Barbatos, 
has a junk food addiction and plans to 
recruit souls for Satan with a new snack, 
Happy Crisps. Not very frightening is 
it? The funniest characters in this story 
line are demons that bear a striking 
resemblance to a certain purple dino
saur whose popularity has waned. Al
though I think Barney is a good role 
model for kids in a socialist sort of way, 
I dont mind Rieber poking a little fun at 
him.
In a bo ok that has such strong writing, 
it is easy to overlook the art. Peter Gross 
and Peter Snejbjerg have been alternat
ing on the art chores since the beginning 
of the series. Their styles are so similar 
that I cant tell when they switch. They 
remind me of Alan Davis (Excalibur) 
with a little bit of Art Adams 
{Monkeyman and OBrian) without 
seeming like rip-offs. The style suits this 
book very well. Another artist, John 
Ridgeway, provides the art for the Play
grounds epilogue. Ill follow the old ad
age, If you dont have something nice to 
say, dont say anything at all.
Thanksgiving is coming up, so I rec
ommend picking up the run of Books of 
Magic. Most issues should be available 
at cover price or even lower. Hey, treat 
yourself before your start spending 
money on presents for everyone else.
Jason Andracki is a junior professional 
writing major. Maybe next week hell 
review a comic without book in the title.
New band tries too much
By JAY MIOLLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Plastique (pla-steek) noun. 1. A 
band that can be best described as 
Soundgarden, meets Stone Temple Pi
lots, meets Cutty Ranks, meets Alice 
in Chains, meets KRS-One.
Who: Plastique
What: Front Towards Enemy
Label: Rawkus Entertainment
The Plastique sound is original but 
unoriginal. Its original because I cant 
think of any other band that has even 
attempted to mix so many types of 
music together, 
yet every type of 
music that they 
mesh is so ge
neric. Dont get 
me wrong, its a 
pretty decent 
sound. The part 
that I cant stom
ach is the two 
singers. They 
have one guy 
singing some me
diocre head-banging bullshit 
straight off of an old Anthrax record, 
and then they throw in this guy sing
ing with a fake Jamaican accent. Its a 
little excessive.
On the whole, it is a pretty decent 
album. There are parts that I like very 
much. The disc has a few points when 
the sound really comes together, and 
it is pretty exciting. My favorite cut on 
the album is track one. The name of 
the song is Touch Someone. It has a 
nice smooth little rhythm with a acid 
jazz influence, along with a heavy 
lead guitar. It hits the spot, if you 
know what I mean.
All in all, it is an okay disc. I think it 
lacks consistency. It seems to me that 
they were trying to do too many things 
on one disc. Some of the songs lack the 
depth needed to pull off the type of 
music that they are trying to do. Some 
other bands to check 
out would be Sugar 
Ray, a relatively new 
band that does some 
really awesome stuff, 
or Phunk Junkees, 
also a relatively new 
band who has some 
good solid stuff as well. 
Plastique is a young 
band, and in a few 
more albums Ill bet 
they can get their shit 
together, and turn out 
some high quality 
stuff. And I quote Derrick Smalls when 
I say, Its kind of like going to a 
wildlife reserve when they preserve 
the moose.
Rawkus Entertainment
classified
pOR SALE
Top-quality Me Candless townhouse 
available. Three bedroom with loft 
and family room. Leaded glass, 
marble and oak throughout. Huge 
spa, deck, and patio. Adjacent to 
North Park: swimming, jogging and 
nature trails. Owner retiring. 
$169,000. Phone 366-5186.
JJOUSING
North Oakland  Renovated large 1 
br, suitable for 2, new appliances, 
wall to wall carpet, central a/c, 
laundry in building, parking 
available, walk to university & 
hospital, intercom entry. $525 & 
$550. Call 795-5845.
North Oakland  Large 4 bedroom, 
completely renovated, all new 
kitchen and bathroom, new appli
ances, central a/c, laundry in 
building, parking available, walk to 
campus. $1100+. 795-5845.
Brooklyn, New York 11230.
Wanted! Individual, student organi
zations to promote Spring Break. Earn 
money and free trips. Call InterCampus Programs, at (800)-327-6013 
or http://www.icpt.com.
Computer operator: Major Wall Street 
firm, Sophomores or Juniors, Parttime, flexible hours. $6/hr, great 
upside potential. Call 566-6732.
Internship: Major Wall Street firm, 
volunteer, 15 flexible hours a week, 
excellent opportunity, advancement. 
Call 566-6732.
RESUME SERVICES
Finishing Touches Complete word 
processing services: Transcription 
reports, term papers, thesis, resumes - 
quick, convenient, professional. For 
more information call Terri at 242- 
7628.
TRAVEL
Spring Break 1996. Travel Free!! 
Jamaica, Cancn, Bahamas, Panama 
City, Daytona, Padre. Great low, low 
prices. Free trip on only 15 sales.
Call for a free information packet! 
Sun Splash Tours 1-800-426-7710.
Spring Break '96 Sell trips, earn 
cash & go free!! Student Travel 
Services is now hiring campus 
representatives. Cancn from $399,. 
Jamaica from $439, Florida from $99. 
Call 1-800-648-4849.
JOBSSERVICES
Excellent extra income now. Enve
lope stuffing $600-$800 every 
week. Free details: SASE to Interna
tional Inc. 1375 Coney Island Ave.
Money for College!!! Hundreds & 
thousands of grants available to all 
students. Immediate qualification. 
Call 1-800-270-2744.
Classified Rates
1-20 words..............$8.00/wk
21-50 words...........510.00/wk
51-100 words......$13.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxl 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date.
On-campus departments and organiza
tions may pay by journal transfer.
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.
ISO: A 
HOLIDAY GIFT 
IDEA?
Custom design 
your oum Full-Color
CALENDAR
OR
PLACEMAT
Bring your favorite 
Photos, 
Personal Artwork 
or
Child's Drawings
to the 
COPY CAT,
and we'll transform 
them into that 
ifseide.eL1f0 o1dm 
your loved ones will 
fscs5 di5osmP
University of Pittsburgh
3945 Forbes Ave. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
412/624-0553THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

0No 0vemvb r 1vebo95o Touusb tb5Boea5md r 2l MsBohioe Vnn,VVV
DH 2210
M 1 I I 1 I 1 M I I !
movies you may have seen before...,
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, November 30
Buckaroo Banzai
From what I remember about this, I think its 
about some guy who can go really fast in a car and 
he unleashes demons or something. It stars the guy 
from Robocop and this guy with this thing on his 
head. Then there is this alien attack, I think. Scott 
owns it, so youll want to ask him. "Big Butay is in 
it, says Scott, so it has to be good.
Anyway, this is a really neat movie, from what I 
remember. I was probably 12 when I saw it, so I was 
busy looking at Playboys and walking my dog, so I 
have bigger fish to fry than this piddling movie. See 
it with Scott.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, December 1
Apollo 13
Tom Im still number gump! Hanks and some 
other guys star in a movie about going into space in 
a big rocket. There are no aliens or evil eggs in the 
movie, or creatures with tails that can cut off your 
head with their tongues. Also, there is no cleavage 
or boobies at all, because its about the space 
program, and we all know girls cant be astronauts, 
because then they would be astro-aunts.
Anyway, this is about the Apollo 13 disaster in 
which a rocket goes into space and only a few, if 
any, people come back. See it because its like 
Forrest Gump, even though there is no scene where 
Tom Hanks has a little accident on Jennys bed.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Saturday, December 2
Waterworld
Kevin Costner stars in this, the most expensive 
movie in the whole wide world. In fact, it cost more 
to make than it did to build all of New York, Paris, 
Spain, and the Russian Tea Room. In fact, it was so 
expensive, you can fit E. T., Star Wars, that movie 
about the dragon and the live-action boy, the movie 
with the mermaid and the Indian, the James Bond 
series, and a few Army V.D. movies, all inside it.
This was so expensive to make that they rented 
Hawaii, including the place where they make the 
punch, just to hold the cast party. It cost over $10 
million, each time Kevin Costner got wet! There are 
rust-spots on the sets that cost more than your 
coat, bucko! See this. They have to make it back, 
somehow.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, December 3
Angry Red Planet
Guess what this is about. Yep, you guessed it. 
Youre pretty slick.
Anyway, its about an angry red planet. Pretty 
straight forward: Anger. Red. Planet. Three words, 
one hell of a movie. See it with Scott. He needs to get 
out more.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
to meet country-rockBand fails
By NEIL DONNELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
Taking The World By Donkey is 
the name of the third release from 
the San Diego band, The 
Rugburns, purportedly because, 
as the bands publicist claims, it 
has taken [them] centuries to get 
to where they are today.
Who: The Rugburns 
What: Taking The World By Donkey 
Label: Priority Records
This theory immediately begs 
two questions: first, where ex
actly is this hideous place, and 
second, who let them get this far?
The Rugburns are a band with 
a potentially entertaining vision: 
acoustic-based, humorous country-rock. Trouble is, when this 
possibly successful concept falls 
into their remarkably incapable 
hands, everything goes to hell. 
Shiny, uninnovative drivel is 
what results from this unholy 
union, completely dashing all 
hope of an enjoyable experience.
The album opens with Til the 
Next Day Comes, which is fall of 
spiffed-up distorted guitar, pro
cessed attitude, and a minor-key 
melody straight out of some main
stream-alternative radio night
mare. War is lyrically muddled; 
it jumps topically from Middle 
East politics to a romantic expe
rience behind a 7-11. A few forced 
obscenities and a nasty-yet-polite guitar sound are thrown in; 
not too much rudeness, but just 
enough to make the yuppie crowd 
that will buy this blather feel 
young. Lines like he was as burnt 
out as a building from the riots
litter The Ballad of Tommy & 
Marla, a limp country tune that 
is hill of simulated twang and 
contrived guitar solos.
The records worst moment, al
though its a tough call, is quite 
possibly Nows Not the Right 
Time for Love. This is a pathetic 
excuse for a love song, full of 
sugar-coated vocal harmonies 
and toned-down acoustic guitars. 
Every potential songwriter 
should be forced to listen to this 
song so that no one ever commits 
a crime this heinous 
again. Youre so Busy 
(la la la) is no more 
than easy-listening 
punk with moronic 
similes (Youre so 
busy, youre so busy/ 
like a single parent in 
a nuclear winter.) 
Surprisingly, there 
are some pleasant vo
cal harmonies on Bet
ter be Careful, but 
thats really only be
cause lead singer 
Steve Poltzs mock 
southern twang is 
drowned out by a more 
pleasant female voice.
Lines like I wanna 
prune your bush, 
however, dont help to 
negate the idiocy factor on this 
one. The repetitive, staccato drone 
of Old Lovers House is com
pletely devoid of creativity; brain
less lyrics like my bellys full but 
my heart is not achieve heights 
of tackiness that were previously 
thought to be unattainable.
The only shining light, while 
nonetheless dim, is Tree 
Hugger, which consists simply 
of an acoustic guitar and vocals.
Actual, real-live humor is put to 
use on this stab at environmen
talism and political correctness 
(On Earth Day I was going to 
plant some trees but I planted my 
ass on the couch).
But any indications of talent 
and creativity are immediately 
dashed by The Girl with the 
Wandering Eye, a song that 
musically is almost a note-fornote rip-off of Eric Claptons 
Wonderful Tonight, but with
out the emotion. Mama, with
its baritone vocals and bouncy 
acoustic guitar, brings to mind a 
poor-mans Crash Test Dummies, 
who are themselves essentially a 
poor-mans version of a talented 
band (but thats another story).
The press sheet describes 
Lockjaw as tender, but with 
such bargain-basement lyrics as 
got lockjaw, cant tell you that I 
love you, tender-headed seems 
much more appropriate. Suburstandards
bia sounds like the Charlie 
Daniels Band, but without the 
furious musicianship that made 
Devil Went Down To Georgia so 
worthwhile. The negative effects 
of alcohol are celebrated on Pile 
on the Hangover, which sounds 
like nothing more than a typical, 
over-produced country-radio hit. 
Two trite power chords comprise 
the bulk of Dirty, which sounds 
as if it was taken directly from 
some 15-year-old rock n-roll text
book.
Someone finally came 
to their senses and pulled 
these guys out of the re
cording studio immedi
ately after the soulless 
Morning Song, or at 
least it seemed. A 
dreaded hidden track ap
pears a few moments 
later, merely reinforcing 
the fact that these guys 
dont know when to quit.
Taking The World By 
Donkey is a pathetic ex
cuse for good songwriting. The Rugburns are 
perhaps the worst band 
ever to attempt the style 
of country-rock. There 
are many other bands, 
such as Wilco and the 
Jayhawks, who are ex
ponentially more skilled in this 
field, and who deserve the atten
tion that theyre getting.
Avoid the Rugburns at all costs, 
unless of course you see this 
record in the bargain bin next 
month.
In that case, pick it up and 
marvel at the depths that uncreative hacks can reach when they 
are allowed access to musical in
struments.
 Priority Records
Windows to Paris provides refreshing change
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
A selection from the Pittsburgh 
Film Festival, Art for Teachers 
of Children was a wild and wooly 
romp through the problems of 
kiddie-porn.
What: Art for Teachers of Children
Director: Jennifer Montgomery 
Company: Zeitgeist Films
I dont want to sound flippant, 
and I in no way condone the 
moral injustices posed by child 
pornography, but this film was a 
poor attempt at bringing those 
injustices to light.
Written and directed by Jenni
fer Montgomery, this semi-autobiographical piece follows a highschool freshman named Jenni
fer as she becomes entranced by 
her dorm advisor at her private 
girls school. The advisor, a door
man named John who likes pho
tography and Russian novelists 
(played with little feeling by 
Dunce Hannah) is a guy who
likes to take nude photos. He 
spends most of the movie in bed 
with Jennifer, or else taking her 
pictures in compromising posi
tions. He brings his young pupil 
out of her adolescent shell and, in 
the process, loses his wife and 
gets investigated by the FBI. 
Jennifer, played by Caitlin Grace
John talks of the nobility of art. 
He goes on about Nabokov and 
Mappelthorpe. Then, with little 
surprise, he shows Jennifer, and 
the audience, just how wide-angle 
his lens can get. The message of 
this movie, as I understand it, is 
that any judgment made must be 
relative when looking at the re
vii .eiigcoi miiis
Characters John and Jennifer talk as John holds a tripod.
McDonnell, is shy and withdrawn 
when she first meets John, but 
soon becomes his apt girlfriend, 
posing for him regularly and hav
ing sex with great fervency.
lationships the characters are 
part of. Is statutory rape the same 
to Jennifer as it is to the FBI 
men? Is it wrong that Jennifer, 
15, is sleeping with a 20-something man? Was she used and 
abused, or was their relationship 
mutual and loving? All of these 
questions can be asked about this 
film, but none of them can be 
answered, even when the closing 
credits begin to roll.
This is an art film. It is in black 
and white, has a low budget, and 
was acted by real people, a.k.a. 
amateurs. The script was a major 
stumbling block for this films 
message, as it was stiff and overly 
formal. The actors, while not good; 
were passable, but what they 
were forced to say made them 
automatons. In a film like this, it 
is message that matters, and even 
that, as mentioned above, was 
sorely lacking.
Jennifer Montgomery lived the 
events in this movie, and there
fore was very close to them. Due 
to this, there is a certain honesty 
in this film that might be lacking 
in another directors vision. How
ever, this honesty was not por
trayed realistically, or even in a 
way that kept the audiences in
terest. The ideas were there, but 
the quality simply wasnt.
ByALEXLEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
My friend Sarah hadnever seen 
a foreign film before we caught 
Diabolique at the Carnegie last 
September.
What: Windows to Paris 
Director: Yuri Mamin 
Company: Sony Pictures
She now says of foreign films in 
general, Theyre awesome. Id 
have to agree. Forgive the gener
alization, but foreign movies tend 
to be quite a bit better than the 
products of Hollywood (or the 
Industry, as they so appropri
ately call it back home) that we
 Sony Pictures Entertainment 
A couple checks for proper flossing.
Americans are so used to.
Yuri Mamins Window to Paris 
is a comic fantasy about a group 
of Russians living in St. Peters
burg, who open their closet one 
day to find, in place of the usual 
brick wall, a gateway to Paris. 
Its a surrealist touch that at first 
seems out of place, yet it works to 
bring the two opposite worlds to
gether. St. Petersburg, we see, is 
a filthy, poverty-stricken slum of 
a place. Paris, on the other hand, 
is frenetic, beautiful, wealthy, and 
fun. Upon finding the window, 
the characters partake in Pari
sian wealth and materialism, 
while at the same time freely 
exposingthemselves as Russians, 
and feeling proud to do so.
The film depicts 
modern Russians as 
identifying strongly 
with their roots and 
trying to hold on to 
the days of Russian 
glory, long since dis
sipated. Yet these 
characters, when 
they see their oppor
tunity, immediately 
milk Paris for all 
that its worth, ob
taining all the money and mate
rial goods that they can take back 
to Russia with them before the 
window closes  theyll be rich 
by Russian standards. At one 
point, the head of the household, 
Gorokhov (Victor Michailov) con
demns a French couple in a res
taurant for stuffing their faces, 
and reminisces about a day when 
he and his family sat with a bottle 
of vodka and a pickle and talked 
about God, life, and the future of 
Russia. He then proceeds to stuff 
his face. They are at once fiercely 
ideological and inescapably ma
terialistic. Leaving the theatre, I 
wondered whether or not this ap
parent contradiction had been 
reconciled. I decided that, al
though the film comes to a satis
factory resolution, the contradic
tion was left lingering, and that 
was exactly the point.
While the film seeks to hold on 
to Russian glory and patriotism, 
it also points to the extreme pov
erty pervading modern Russia. 
Window to Paris is not a fantasy 
just because the characters have 
a magical transporting portal in 
their closet. Its a fantasy because 
they find a way out of destitution
 an impossibility in todays 
Russia.
Above the nationalist and po
litical undertones, Window to 
Paris is a terrific comedy, center
ing on Nikolai (Serguei Dontsov), 
a music teacher who finds Paris 
much more liberal and accepting 
of his passion and talent than St. 
Petersburg. This grows into a 
moral question for him: once the 
window closesand it only opens 
once every 20 years  should he 
stay in Paris or go back to Rus
sia?
He is forced to confront the con
flict in a charming scene in which 
his students, whom he has 
brought through the window for 
a brief visit to Paris, all protest 
that they dont want to go back 
home.
What makes Window to Paris 
so enjoyable is that it deals with 
these political and economic is
sues on a perfectly subtle level, 
never taking away from the comic. 
situations. In a film-going milieu 
that smothers us with Water-, 
worlds and Congos and hordes of 
other assembly-line, formula 
movies, Window to Paris is a beau
tiful refreshment.
Artsy flick from Film Festival lets down critic

---------------------------------------------------

Kappa Sigma SLAUGHTERS Sig 
Ep in a muddy football game.. .The 
Score- Kappa Sig 44- Sig Ep 0!
Hes graceful 
yet masculim 
so its ok for | 
me to enjoy | 
this.
To Sonia H.- 
smiles, hugs, 
and kisses 
from me. 
-Dr.
Bearriver
The Cowboys? 
Ha ha ha!
.The 49ers rock!
Oh my God! My 
grey parrot has 
fallen outof my 
pocket.
-Lucky
QiJBOQOQHDElVS
Buckaroo Bonzai will play in DH 2210 No
vember 30 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Apollo 13 will take place in DH 2210 Decem
ber 1 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Waterworld will show in DH 2210 December
2 at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Angry Red Planet will show in DH 2210 
December 3 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Tom, Tom, The Piper*8 Son will play at the 
Andy Warhol Museum Theater this Friday at 
7:30 pm. For more information call 237-8300.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts presents 
Paintings by OddNordrum, an exhibition of his 
recent allerigorical paintings. The show will run 
through December 31. For more information call 
361-0873.
The Andy Warhol Museum hosts Arena 
where would I have been if I had been 
intelligent! from October 11 to February 25. The 
show exhibits work by German artist Joseph Beuys, 
featuring 264 photographs encased in 100 alumi
num frames and three panels of handmade glass 
encircling a mixed media sculpture. For more 
information call 622-6509.
The Forbes Gallery will hold a Holiday Art Sale 
this Monday and Tuesday from 10 am to 9 pm. 
Come buy your gifts early this year. The next 
show, Feast of Five, will begin November 28. For 
more information call 268-2081.
The Carnegie Museum of Art is pleased to 
announce the onset of 1995 Carnegie Interna
tional show November 5 through February 18. The 
exhibit was organized by the museums curator of 
contemporary art, Richard Armstrong, and repre
sents a confluence of the best of the moment in 
contemporary art worldwide.
Brew House SPACE 101 and independent 
curator Vicky A. Clark presentR.E.S.P.E.C.T., 
a group exhibition featuring the recent develop
ments of eight women artists. All artists address 
the human figure through two-dimensional, threedimensional and installation works. The show will 
run from November 10 through December 9. For 
more information call 268-2081.
Students who have taken the GREs will be 
able to find out their test scores a week or more 
earlier than usual by dialing an 800 number start
ing in mid-November. Those examinees who took 
the test on October 14 in the U.S., Puerto Rico or 
Canada may use the Scores-By-Phone option by 
dialing 1 (800) GRE-5056. The fee for the service is 
$10. Call 734-5050.
The Pittsburgh Jewish Community Center is
pleased to announce the Larry Sadja Second An
nual 3-on-3 Basketball Tournament which will 
take place on this Friday and Saturday at the 
Jewish Community Center of Pittsburgh. Proceeds 
from the event will benefit the Larry Sadja Endow
ment Fund. For more information call 301-986- 
7800.
Crossing Limits is considering artwork
for the book cover of an upcoming poetry 
anthology. Art work may also be used for promo
tional posters, T-shirts, or flyers. Send photos or 
slides of original unpublished work to: Crossing 
Limits, P.O. Box P, 300 South Craig Street, 
Pittsburgh, PA, 15213. For more information call 
421-1695.
Kaplan Educational Center announces 
LSAT Extra Help hosted by Bob Verini, 
National LSAT Advisor and a long-time 
teacher. The session will focus on PrepTest XVI. 
For more information call Ann Messa at 492-5903.
The Carnegie Museum of Art presents Inter
national Artists Round Table: Richard 
Artschwager, Stan Douglas, Louise Fishman, 
and Doris Salcedo, a discussion held in the 
Lecture Hall January 20 from 1-4 pm. The discus
sion will be moderated by Richard Armstrong. For 
more information call 622-6509.
Pittsburgh Magazine is looking for editorial 
interns. Duties would include: fact checking, re
search, writing, and proofreading. Send cover 
letters, resumes, and/or writing portfolios to : Georgia Bouzob,Pittsburgh Magazine, 4802 Fifth Ave., 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, or call for more informa
tion at 622-6424.
The Pennsylvania Brewing Company debuts 
St. Nikolaus Bock Beer in bottles for 
the Holiday season. The beer will be available 
at area restaurants, bars and beer distributors by 
December 1995. For more information call 237- 
5732.
The University of Pittsburgh Department of 
Music presents the Christmas Concert December 
1 at 8 pm in the Heinz Chapel Choir with director 
John Goldsmith. Admission to the concert is $5 for 
adults, $3 for senior citzens. Call 624-4125.
The Cathedral Organ Series, with the famous 
Bechrath Organ of Saint Paul Cathedral pre
sents A Festival of Lessons and Carols by the Saint 
Paul Cathedral Choir, December 17 at 3 pm. The 
Cathedral is located at the comer of North Craig 
Street and Fifth Avenue in Oakland. For more 
information call 687-2261.
The University of Pittsburgh Department of 
Music presents A Concert of Solo and En
semble Guitar Music on November 28 at 8 pm in 
the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. Admission is free. 
For more information call 361-4038.
The University of Pittsburgh Mens Glee Club
wishes to announce its 106th annual fall concert. 
The event takes place on December 2 at 3 pm in the 
Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. Admission is free and 
onen t,n t.hp mi hi in Fnr mnrp infnrtnat-inn rail
7871.
The University of Pittsburgh Department of 
Music presents Joseph Murphy on the saxophone 
December 3 at 8 pm in Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. 
For more information call 624-4126.
The University of Pittsburgh Department of 
Music presents Thai Music and Dance on Decem
ber 6 at 8 pm. Place TBA. The professional troupe 
will bring the splendor and drama of Thai music to 
Pittsburgh for its second appearance. For more 
information call 624-4126.
1990 she has devoted her time to educating young 
people on issues related to HIV/AIDS. The lecture 
will take place November 30 at 7 pm in Porter Hall 
100. Admission to the lecture is free. For more' 
information contact Jill Goodall at 
jgoodall@cmu.edu.
The Jewish University Center will sponsor a 
Seminar in Jewish Thought with Dr. Abbj 
Mendelson this Monday from 7:30-8:30 pm at the 
Jewish University Center at the comer of Forbes 
Avenue and Craig Street.
The Three Rivers Arts Festival and the Andy 
Warhol Museum present Artists as Activists,
a discussion featuring critics and artists, on January 19, from 6-9 pm. For more information call 
237-8338.
The womens basketball team will be I 
Case Western Reserve University at 8 pm on Tues
day. They will also host Thiel College at 6 pm o 
December 1.
The mens basketball team will be hosting Cast 
Western Reserve University at 6 pm on Tuesday. 
They will also host the Carnegie Mellon Invita
tional on Saturday and Sunday.
The Upstairs Theatre presents My Night With 
Reg by Kevin Elyot, which will run from Novem
ber 29 through December 17, Wednesday through 
Saturday at 8 pm and Sunday at 3 and 7 pm. 
Tickets are $10-$18. Visa, Mastercharge, and 
American Express are accepted. For more infor
mation call 361-5443.
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents Summer 
and Smoke, by Tennessee Williams directed by 
Gregory Lehane. The show will preview on Decem
ber 1 and open December 2 at 8 pm. It will run 
December 5-9 at 8 pm and on December 9 at 2 pm. 
For more information call 268-2900.
The Carnegie Mellon Master of Fine Arts 
Department presents The Crucible by Arthur 
Miller, directed by Elizabeth Orion, December 6-
9. The show will run in the intimate Studio Theatre 
adjacent to the College of Fine Arts. For more 
information call 268-5765.
Saltworks Theatre Company presents the 1995- 
96 season with You Cant Take It With You at the 
Eddy Theatre at Chatham College November 30 
through December 3, December 8-10 and 1517 at 
7:30 pm; matinees on Saturday at 2:30 pm. For 
more information call 687-8884.
The CMU Department of Architecture pre
sents a lecture for an architectural position by 
Swati Chattopadhyay, from the University of Cali
fornia at Berkeley on November 30 at 3 pm in 
Margaret Morrison 103 (Breed Hall). For more 
information call 268-2354.
AB Lectures is proud to present a lecture 
AIDS Awareness: The Legacy of Ryan White
presentedby Jeanne White-Ginder, Ryans mother. 
Jeanne will be discussing the problems she and 
Ryan encountered when he contracted AIDS from 
a blood transfusion in 1984. Since Ryans death in
Java Jeffs Coffee House at 2301 Murray Ave. 
has poetry readings every second and fourth Mon: 
day of every month at 8:30 pm. Music nights are 
every Thursday and Friday at 8:30. No cover 
charge. Call 421-JAVA for details.
Crossing Limits cordially invites po
ets, friends, and families to a multi
cultural poetry reading at the Carnegie 
Library, November 22 at 7 pm. Admission is free, 
For more information call 421-1695.
Please submit Calendar and Vox Populi announcements. Deadline is November 30 
by 5 pm. Announcements should be 20 words or less. Drop them off at The Tartan 
office in Student Center Room 104, mail toThe Tartan Box 17, or email sv2f.
All graphics by Francine Gemperie / Tartan Art Co-Editor
