CRASH
LOCATION
Conway
Economi
Above left: Federico pens. Secretary 
and-Cad Vogfr, NTSB board mmfesr  the crash site. Above right: AS Department of Maintenance truck Garden Plaza with emergency suppi
Baden
G Frankl 
Park
Corapo!ili:
Volume 89, Issue 2Carnegie Mellon University's Student Nevvspape12 September 1994
Flight 427 goes down
Last words: Oh god ... traffic emergency
jy JASON TOGYER
gfartan News Editor
The investigation by federal, 
tate, and local authorities into the 
easons behind the crash of USAir 
light 427 is underway, as experts 
from around the country continue 
;o remove the remains of the vicams from the site and examine the 
wreckage to determine what went 
prong.
The ill-fated plane, a Boeing 737- 
J00 headed from Chicago to West 
aim Beach, Florida, crashed on 
Thursday night in Hopewell Townhip, Beaver County .All 132 people 
board were killed.
Lieutenant Governor Mark 
ingel, head of the states Emer
gency Management Agency, called 
the scene one of utter destruction... 
[and] complete carnage. This is not 
the kind of site that you want to 
iee. The plane was absolutely 
[ecimated... [the site] is strewn with 
agments from the plane and huan remains.
The investigation is being coordilated by the National Transporta
tion Safety Board (NTSB), with 
assistance from a myriad of other 
agencies, including the Pennsylva
nia State Police; the Federal Bu
reau of Investigation; the Allegh
eny County Coroners Office, Po
lice, and Department of Aviation; 
h local emergency medical services 
and volunteer fire departments; and 
| the Pennsylvania National Guard, 
Please see CRASH, page 2Illustration: Derek Wahlla/Tartjan Assistant Production Manager; Photos: Jason Togyer/Tartan News Editor
Pitt, CMU merge
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan Assistant News Co-Editor
Carnegie Mellon and the University 
of Pittsburgh have combined shuttle 
services thiB year to accommodate both 
Pitt and CMU students by allowing 
them to ride for free on each 
universitys shuttle. The plan is de
signed to make traveling around 
Pittsburgh easier for students.
Combining services with Pitt will 
allow students greater access to areas 
around campus. [Pitts shuttles] cover
a much larger physical area than we 
do, said James LaPaglia, Chief of 
Campus Police and the man in charge 
of CMLFs service. They go to areas 
where we dont go, where you are 
most likely to see students living. 
Declan McCullagh, student body 
president agreed. It will give stu
dents living in Shadyside a way to get 
homeinthe late evenings, McCullagh 
said.
The plan will also be beneficial to 
Pitt students as well according to 
Please see SHUTTLES, page 3
Small plane 
strikes White 
House Lawn
President unhurt
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
& SAMUEL GREENFIELD
Tartan Managing Editor
At 1:49 am this morning, a small one engine plane crashed 
on the South West grounds of the White House. The lone male 
pilot was pronounced dead at the scene.
President Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton were not staying
"77ie President is aware and he 
and Hillary were not in the White 
House
 White House Spokesperson
at the White House at the time of the crash. Due to renova
tions at the White House, they were staying in the Blair 
House across Pennsylvania Avenue. They were scheduled to 
move into the White House today; however, those plans 
remain unclear because of the crash. A spokesperson at the 
White House said, The President is aware [of the plane 
crash], and he and Hillary were not in the White House. 
While initial reports indicated the aircraft bounced off the 
White House itself, the aircraft did not strike the Presidents 
residence. Bomb squads have been at the scene, and so far 
there seems to be no danger involved. A source at the Wash
ington, DC Metropolitan Police said, There is, so far, no signs 
of an actual attack on the President.
The cause of the crash is so far undetermined, but it is not 
clear if it is accidental. As of press time, the identity of the 
pilot is unknown.
Coffeehouse voted down
By DAWN WALLHAUSEN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
In a meeting of the Graduate Student 
Organization on Wednesday, Septem
ber 7, representatives voted 15-4 in fa
vor of closing the doors of the Tilted 
Square graduate coffeehouse forever.
According to Tim --------------------------
Mallo, GSO Presi
dent, the decision 
was based on sev
eral factors, the 
greatest being fi
nances. Mallo said,
GSO would need 
to come up with at 
least $10,000 up
front. --------------------------
An additional 
$30,000for renovations would come from 
Senate, Dean [of Student Affairs 
Michael] Murphys office, and Univer
sity Planning, he said.
Mallo said that the money involved in 
reopeningthe coffeehouse would cut into
funds for other graduate activities and 
organizations. Furthermore, there is no 
guarantee thatthe business wouldmake 
enough money to break even.
GSO representative Howard Read 
said, In the past year, we did make 
money some months and had we stayed 
in Skibo, I have no doubt the coffeehouse
[The GSO Coffeehouse] was a great service 
to students. Most representatives were sad
dened by this move. 
 GSO VP Doug 
Cunningham
would have broken even this year or 
next.
However, Read also said that the move 
to the temporary Student Center (the 
former Naval Reserve Center), which 
would have been required to keep the
operation running, would definitely hurt 
the coffeehouses business. The new 
space offered is only 900 square feet; 
compared to 2,100 square feet in the old 
spot in Skibo. There would only be seat
ing for 30 if the GSO opened the coffee-: 
house in the Student Center.
In addition, the future of the coffee-------------------------- house would re
main uncertain. 
GSO
dent Doug 
ning-ham 
even if it [the 
feehouse] ran 
two years, a 
for us in the new 
University Center
_________________ was not guaranHHHHI teed.
Cunningham added that the decision, 
although disappointing, was not a sur
prise to him. [The GSO coffeehouse] 
was a great service to students. Most 
representatives were saddened by this 
move.
Aid process returns to roots
Financial aid allocation still evolving, says Elliott
This week...
Generation X is a misnomer  see 
page 5
Want to see some bad movies?  
see page Lll
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Assistant News Co-Editor
[Editor's Note: Part two in a series.]
I have no doubt in my mind that students and 
families make their college choices based on 
finances, said Bill Elliott, Vice President of 
Enrollment at CMU. What we should do as an 
institution is have the very highest quality aca
demic and artistic programs that students want 
and then provide opportunities for students to 
finance [it], said Elliott.
The decision to move towards a more predomi
nantly merit-based allocation system for financial aid is not 
a new idea. In fact, Elliott describes the move as a return to 
the roots operation.
CMU has not begun to radically change any financial aid 
policy, but Elliott says there has been more deliberate 
discussion in the last ten years about moving towards a 
merit-based system.
'
FINANCIALAID
universities in order to help students pay for 
tuition. The government then introduced the 
Financial Aid Form, and the PCS (Parents Con
fidential Statement) to evaluate a familys abil
ity to pay for college. Then came the introduction 
of the Pell Grant, and finally the federally sup
ported Stafford Loan (formerly known as the 
Guaranteed Student Loan).
In recent years, federal and state government 
have found other priorities and begun to withr 
draw money for financial aid. College costs have
__________ steadily increased, and theres less money to go
around. As Elliott said, Right now the biggest 
stakeholder in the financial aid program at this institution... 
is the University itself.
The questions that then surface for a prospective family are 
difficult. CMU then starts to think about tuition in regards to 
access and choice, two words that Elliott thinks are crucial in 
the process. People gain access to institutions based on their 
academic and artistic abilities, Elliott said. Therefore, he 
said, the new merit^based allocation system is a case of reallyTo show where the issue has evolved, look at the history of 
the development of financial aid. Prior to 1957, financial aid not changing, its a sort-of step function to continue to kind of 
was not an issue. It was then that the federal government evolve.
decided that federal money should start being allocated to Please see AID, page 3
Additional USAIr coverage:
 Alumnus among victims
 New information may 
shed light on cause
 Accident is second in 
airports history
Please see Page 2
Inside
Calendar....................................................L14
Classified.....................................................11
Comics.....................................................................5
Diversions...................................................L9
Features.....................................................LI
Forum..................................................................4
Sports...........................................................7
Vox populi..................................................L14

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan < Carnegie Mellon  12 September 1994
Crash investigation continues in Hopewell
Alumnus was among crashs victims
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Edward T. Ryan, a senior develop
mental chemist for PPG Industries, was 
among the victims of the crash of USAir 
flight 427. Aresident of Cheswick, north 
of Pittsburgh, Ryan received a masters 
degree in chemistry from Carnegie Mel
lon in 1984.
His wife, Linda Ryan, described him 
as a loving husband and an adoring 
father. The two were married on Janu
ary 22 of this year. Ryan had two daugh
ters, Kelly Lynn, 6, and Allison Marie, 
10, from a previous marriage.
After receiving a bachelors degree in 
chemistry from the University of 
Pittsburgh in 1980, Ryan went to work 
for PPG. During that time he began 
work on his masters degree at CMU. At 
the time of his death, Ryan was working 
for the Coatings and Resin Research 
Center in Springdale, Pennsylvania.
Linda Ryan described her late hus
band as a outdoorsman. We went camp
ing, kayaking and bike riding all the 
time. He loved the outdoors, she said.
Ryan was also a karate enthusiast. A 
black belt, he had been studying karate 
since he was thirteen years old.
He loved working with kids and teach
ing karate. Allison shared his enthusi
asm and recently got her green belt, 
said Linda Ryan.
In a prepared statement released to 
the Valley News-Dispatch ofTarentum, 
PPG called Ryan a well-respected chem
ist and said that his loss would be missed.
Tragedy is airports second
The crash at Hopewell Township last Thursday evening marks only the 
second fatal commercial airline accident in western Pennsylvania and 
the worst ever in the states history.
Shortly after the now-closed Greater Pittsburgh International Airport 
opened in 1953, a Trans World Airlines twin-engine Martin went down 
just after takeoff killing 22 of 36 people. The crash occured on April 1, 
1956, Easter weekend. The plane was headed to Newark, New Jersey.
 Andrew Sproule
Crews sift through wreckage to find clues to planes last moments
CRASH, from page 1
among others.
Events of evening
Flight 427 left Chicagos OHare 
Airport at about 5 pm Thursday 
evening. The fully-loaded plane 
was expected to arrive in 
Pittsburgh at 7:09 pm.
A* 6:56 pm, Pilot Peter 
Germano radioed the control 
tower at Pittsburgh International 
Airport for instructions as he be
gan his final approach to the air
port. His flight path was to take
state Route 60 and Green Gar
den Road in Hopewell Township, 
west of Aliquippa, reported hear
ing a popping noise from the jet.
According to sometimes sketchy 
eyewitness accounts, the plane 
was losing altitude. After briefly 
leveling out, it turned to its right 
side, then did two barrel rolls to 
the left before nose-diving at an 
80-degree angle into a hillside 
about one-quarter mile from the 
shopping center.
At that point, ambulances, fire 
departments, and police from all 
over Allegheny, Butler, and Bea
ver Counties were mobi
lized. State Police closed 
Route 60 at the Interstate 
79 interchange at 8 pm to 
ease access to the site. A 
half-hour later, traffic 
would be backed up on the 
Parkway West all the way 
to Pittsburgh. Police closed 
the road at the Fort Pitt 
Tunnels to all traffic ex
cept emergency crews.
Volunteers and rescue 
personnel searched in vain 
for survivors. The smol
dering wreckage was 
spread over an area theJason Togyer/Tartan News Editorsize of two football fields, 
Lt. Gov. Mark Singel, Hopewell Twp. mgr. and included small fires, 
Jim Eichenlaub, and Beaver County piecesoftheaircraft, seats, 
Coroner Wayne Tatlovich address and bodies, 
reporters at Green Garden Plaza. As the more than 998
people who eventually rehim down the Ohio River to the sponded to the crash arrived, a 
Golden Triangle, where he was to command center was set up in 
turn the airplane around and the parking lot of Green Garden 
approach Runway 28 Right from Plaza, where the investigating
the south. What exactly happened 
next that prevented Germano and 
the planes crew from continuing 
oh that path may never be known.
' At 6,000 feet, about seven miles
teams are now based. The hill
side around the accident was 
sealed off by the State Police to 
prevent looters and the curious 
from removing or disturbing the
north of the airport, the plane debris at the site. Four people 
disappeared from the control were arrested for entering the 
towers radar screens. After sev- area and charged with trespasseral unsuccessful attempts to con- ing and interfering with emertact the plane, Pittsburgh called gency response.
STAT Medevac, a medical heli- Salvage efforts were called off 
copter transport company based after darkness fell because there 
in Coraopolis, to search for the were no survivors to transport 
missing plane. out, and the terrain was too rugAt 7:15 pm, witnesses at the ged to begin the investigation at 
Green Garden Plaza shopping night. The only access to the site, 
center near the intersection of before heavy equipment was
brought in, was via old logging 
roads, said Jim Eichenlaub, 
Hopewell Township manager.
Recovery of debris, human 
remains
Allegheny County Deputy Coro
ner Michael Silver said that 
search teams are combing the 
rugged terrain around the crash 
area in small groups. Each mem
ber of the team is selected for 
their area of expertise; for ex
ample, teams include a crime 
photographer to document the lo
cation and position of any debris 
found and forensic pathologists 
to examine any human remains.
Silver said that after a spot is 
marked, the debris there will be 
bagged. Then, the location of each 
will be marked on a large overlay 
of the site. Scientists will then 
use this information to find the 
pattern, if any, of the wreckage.
It will take several days to a 
week to complete depending on 
the situation, he said.
Silver said that human remains 
are being taken to a temporary 
morgue being set up in a hangar 
at the Pennsylvania Air National 
Guards base near Pittsburgh 
International Airport.
We plan to set up an orderly 
flow of remains from station to 
station, he said, they will be 
fingerprinted, photographed, and 
catalogued. They will then be 
identified, if possible, using den
tal and skeletal x-rays being sent 
to Pittsburgh from around the 
country.
Search teams also include mem
bers of the Allegheny County 
Hazardous Materials Team, be
cause the corpses at the site pose 
a biological hazard to unprotected 
rescue workers. Workers were 
given inoculations for infectious 
diseases like tetanus and hepati
tis, and were smearing creams 
like Noxema and VicksVapoRub 
under their noses to avoid smell
ing the decaying remains.
Investigation of cause
The rest of the operation is foAfter briefly leveling then did two barrel rolls
out, it turned to its to the left
right side .
737-300 Dimensions:
Wing Span94ft 9in (28.88m)
Overall Length109ft 7in (33.40m)
Overall Height36ft 6in (11.13m)
Wheelbase40ft lOin (12.45m)
before nosediving at an 
80-degree angle into a 
hillside.
Derek Wahlla/Tartan Assistant Production Manager
Jason Togyer/Tartan News Editor
Rescue teams leave the command center at Green Garden Plaza shopping center, about one quarter mile 
from the crash site. The point of impact was on the hillside in the right background of the photo.
cused on the last few minutes 
before the crash, including the 
information from the flight data 
and cockpit voice recorders (the 
so-called black box), the planeto-tower communications, weath
er reports, and eyewitness ac
counts of the disaster.
The recorders were recovered 
Thursday night from the tail of 
the plane, the only relatively in
tact section, and sent under 
armed guard to the NTSB in 
Washington for analysis.
An unauthorized copy of the 
Federal Aviation Administration 
(FAA) transcript of the voice re
cording was leaked to the Cable 
News Network (CNN) Friday 
evening by NTSB sources.
According to the information 
obtained by CNN, the pilot or co
pilots last words to the Pittsburgh 
control tower were Oh, 
God...traffic emergency, oh, 
shit...ahh ahh ahh, and did not 
respond to the towers calls after 
that.
Carl Vogt, a NTSB board mem
ber and the leader ofthe agencys 
efforts here, refused to confirm 
CNNs transcript, and said that 
even if the information were cor
rect, it contributed little to the 
investigation. Rumors have run 
rampant about the causes of the 
accident; eyewitness accounts 
have contained conflicting and 
often erroneous information 
about the planes last moments. 
Vogt said rumors were not useful 
and that he wouldnt speculate 
on the cause.
Speculation about possible 
sabotage or a catastrophic en
gine failure have been discounted 
by officials. USAir has no reason 
to start, confirm, or continue ru
mors, said Seth Schofield, the 
airlines president. [The analy
sis] will have to be done very
thoughtfully. Regarding the sto
ries of sabotage, Schofield said 
that while the industry receives 
threats on a daily basis, there 
were no threats whatsoever 
against this flight or USAir.
A reliable workhorse
One of the most mystifying as
pects of the crash is the involve
ment of the B oeing737. The plane 
is known as one of the most de
pendable, respected, and easiest 
to fly commercial aircraft ever 
built. Since the designs intro
duction in 1968,2,641 have been 
built. The 737-300 was introduced 
in the 1980s.
Aviation experts say that while 
there have been seven fatal acci
dents in the United States in
volving the 737, there has been 
no pattern indicating that the 
airplane has some inherent weak
ness.
However, there are eerie paral
lels between flight 427s crash 
and the March 3,1991 crash of a 
United Airlines 737 in Colorado 
Springs. In both cases, witnesses 
reporting seeing the planes sud
denly rolling over and plunging 
to the ground nose-first.
The NTSBs report in that case 
said that violent winds in the 
area and problems with the 
airplanes control systems were 
contributing factors in the crash. 
However, the agency said that it 
could not be certain what caused 
the crash. Twenty-two people died 
in that incident.
USAir has 444 aircraft in its 
fleet, 155 of which are 737-300s. 
The plane in question was young 
by the standards of commercial 
aircraft  built in October of 
1987, it had flown just 14,000 
cycles, or take-offs and land
ings. According to the Federal
Aviation Administration, all! 
regular maintenance had been 
performed well within existing 
limits, and the plane had a clean 
service record, except for a minor^ 
incident in 1991 when it was! i 
forced to make an unscheduled h 
landing because of wind-buffet- j 
ing problems.
US Airs safety in question h
The crash is the fifth for USAir 
in five years, and thats causing 
some observers to question the 
airlines safety and maintenance 
procedures.
It comes just as the NTSB is 
closing its investigation of a July 
2 crash of a USAir McDonnellDouglas DC-9 at Charlotte-Dou
glas International Airport in 
North Carolina.
Schofield said that the recent 
string of accidents does not mean 
that the airline is unsafe. While 
we are certainly sensitive to [the 
safety] issue, there does not ap
pear to be any thread that ties 
them together, he said.
Federico Pena, U.S. Secretary 
of Transportation, said that while 
his department has been investi
gating the airlines safety prac
tices for some time, it does not 
necessarily mean that the airline 
is guilty of wrong-doing.
If there is any question about 
an airline, we step up our inves
tigation, he said. USAir denied 
charges that the companys mas
sive debt has resulted in deferred gT 
or shoddy maintenance on its 
planes. The airline expects to lose 
in excess of $350 million this year, 
Schofield said. He said that there 
has been no talk of filing for bank
ruptcy at USAir, and he expects 
the negative publicity of the lat
est crash to have little adverse 
financial effect on the airline.
Thrust reverser may have been contributing factor
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
National Transportation Safety Board 
member Carl Vogt said yesterday that a 
device called a reverser acuator may 
have been a contributing factor in the 
crash of USAir flight 427 last Thursday.
Vogt, who is coordinating the investi
gation, said that an acuator from the 
right engine was found in the extended 
position, which could indicate that the 
plane was losing thrust when it crashed. 
The device is used to slow the plane 
quickly during landings.
If youre flying along with two en
gines and one suddenly reverses, you 
can imagine the consequences it would 
have, Vogt said.
However, Vogt said that it was un
clear at this time whether the acuator 
was extended during the crash or while 
the plane was in flight.
Rumors that the plane hit migrating 
geese or was buffeted from turbulence 
from another plane are not substanti
ated at this time, Vogt said.
However, the recently retired chief 
scientist of the Federal Aviation Admin
istration (FAA), Robert Machol, said that 
the device could not have caused the 
crash. He referred to the crash three
years ago of a larger, more powerful 767- 
300 in Thailand.
In that case, Machol said, the thrust 
reverser engaged. The tremendous 
thrust that was pushing the engine back
ward on that engine went forward and 
the engine went out of control, he said.
In that case, the plane was climbing 
at nearly full power, Machol said. In 
this case, the plane was coming down
hill at much less power. If the engine 
had reversed, if the thrust reverser had 
engaged, it would not have caused an 
uncontrollable situation.
Machol made his remarks on NBCTVs Today Show.
IF YOU S NEWS...
phone (answers 24 hours): 268-2111 
email: tartan+@andrew.cmu.edu
The Tartan is your newspaper, but 
it only works if you get involved. If 
you see something youd like us to 
cover, please contact us. All news 
tips may be kept confidential.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  12 September 1994
Pitt, CMU experiment with cooperative shuttle service
SHUTTLES, from page 1 The Pitt shuttles can be picked up at the
LaPaglia. [It will] provide Pitt students with an intersections of Fifth and Morewood and Forbes 
opportunity to ride from areas where their ser- and Morewood. The service is free to both stuvice doesnt run, he said. One of the areas not dents and the administration, said McCullagh. 
serviced by CMU shuttles is Squirrel Hill. With Students are required to show their ID.
the new cooperative service, that problem will be 
alleviated. [The shuttle] goes up Forbes Avenue
McCullagh still has concerns about some as
pects of the service, though. Right now were
towards Squirrel Hill and the shopping district, getting [the service] for free, but it cant continue
Right now were getting [the ser
vice] for free, but it cant continue 
for free.
 Declan McCullagh, 
Student Government President
said McCullagh.
Talks between 
Pitt and CMU 
started in the fall 
of1993. Shuttles 
werent the only 
items discussed, 
though. Parking 
was also a major 
topic of the meet
ings. The shuttie service was
the easiest to get started, said LaPaglia, and 
cooperative shuttle scheduling and advertising 
began over the summer. According to LaPaglia 
there were under 40 Pitt students who rode 
CMU shuttles and 400 to 500 CMU students who 
rode Pitt shuttles. LaPaglia said Pitt had more 
accurate numbers. JohnMorgan, director ofPitts 
Parking and Transportation Department, re
fused to comment.
The service was successful, although LaPaglia 
admits, that it was not a fair test considering the 
few students on campus during the summer. The 
program was started during the fall semester, 
with limitations. The service will be combined on 
the weekday between 7 pm until the final Pitt 
shuttle rim and day and night on weekends. We 
want to be careful not to overload each others 
system, said LaPaglia.
to free, he 
said. Pitt 
may consider 
the disprop ortional 
rider statis
tics and de
cide to charge 
CMU for the 
privilege of 
riding their 
shuttles.
Right now many people have not heard about 
the service, so its too early to tell if it will be 
successful or not. Of the students and staff using 
the service, most seem to have a favorable im
pression. I have been receiving positive com
ments from students, said McCullagh. For now 
the service is only experimental. LaPaglia said 
the universities have designated September 28 
and 29 as survey days. They will pass out sur
veys to all the riders on the shuttles, so that 
students can provide feedback.
Throughout the summer the plan seemed to 
work and is picking up similar momentum this 
semester. We hope it has a positive affect [on 
the students], said LaPaglia. Only time will tell 
if the service will continue or not. According to 
McCullagh, The setup we have is not the final 
solution, [but] it is a good start.
Aid goes back to basics
CMU attempts to help talented, needy students
AID, from page 1
Many students have questioned 
how this system will affect 
needy people. There will be no 
new money coming in to the CMU 
distribution pool, but instead, a 
re-allocation of the same re
sources. But Elliott said, Were 
not going to cut anybody out based 
on the fact that they need money.
Elliott illustrated this with a 
hypothetical situation. Two stu
dents of comparable academic 
achievement in high school have 
both been accepted to CMU and 
both are applying for financial 
aid. One is labeled middle-income and the other is from a 
single-income household without 
many resources. Who gets what 
financial aid?
Youre going to admit them 
both and youre going to provide 
assistance for them both, said 
Elliott. Were talking about an 
allocation model. Both students 
will be getting aid, but in possibly 
two different forms. The middleincome student may receive a 
university grant while the other 
students may have a package that 
consists of grant, loans, and workstudy.
A merit-based grant given out 
by the University would pose 
some questions for the financial 
aid office. What are the stan
dards, said Elliott, and what 
are the academic requirements 
to try and evolve this stuff to try
to be fair and consistent? CMU 
wants to strive hard to pursue 
academic and artistically talented 
students and, as Elliott said, 
were going to make it possible 
for them to come.
In looking at the issue of choice. 
It would be great for a student to 
have the finances to choose to go 
to an institution, said Elliott. 
But some students are forced to 
go someplace else. There are a 
number of reasons students dont 
come to this University. Number 
one they cant afford it, and [num
ber two] they decide that they 
dont want to afford it.
Carnegie Mellon operates on a 
need-blind admission basis. The 
University is not looking at the 
students ability to pay when'they 
look through their application; 
rather, it is continuing to try and 
develop strategies to finance the 
expense of going to college.
Other private institutions are 
also looking into the issue and 
there have been several talks 
going on between CMU and these 
other schools to develop new 
ideas.
One initiative that students 
have taken is looking for outside 
scholarships. Several large com
panies and industries offer schol
arships to high school students 
as well as to students currently 
enrolled in a university. But at 
CMU, an outside scholarship is 
subtracted in full from a students
calculated need. Some other 
schools, like M.I.T, for example,' 
will only subtract part of the schol-. 
arship. A Career Services Task 
Force submitted a proposal over 
the summer about ideas in re
gards to outside scholarships and: 
financial aid at CMU. If CMU 
decided not to cut 100 percent of; 
the amount of an outside scholar
ship from the students aid, it 
may provide students with more 
incentive to strive academically 
and seek out an outside scholar
ship.
CMU students have a low rate 
of application to outside scholar
ships. The Churchill Scholarship, 
that offers no financial benefits. 
but pays for study in England 
has had only one or two appli
cants in recent years. The Truman 
scholarship, another prestigious 
award, has had less than five, 
applicants each year with no win
ners. The report will be evalu
ated by Elliott, Provost Paul 
Christiano, and others.
Merit-based may be the newtrend in financial allocation of 
funds, but it will not keep stu
dents out of CMU. Elliott said 
with the continuing changes in 
enrollment patterns, pricing pattems, and decision patterns, the 
University is trying to attract and ! 
maintain the most academically 
and artistically talented students 
and make it possible for them to ! 
attend.
Carnegie AlmanacStage, screen star Tandy dead at 85
^ This weeks events in history on campus to conduct an investigation into college 
as reported by The Tartan: health services in Pittsburgh.
H 50 YEARS AGO, September 12,1944: 
[ The Athletics Board discontinued 
intercollegiate football at Carnegie Tech 
for the 1944 season. The sport was 
t ^discontinued due to alack of manpower, 
reported The Tartan. Carnegie was 
forced to discontinue the sport during 
l the last war, but carried on in 1943 
under great difficulties. The Tartans 
had planned six games for 1944, 
including against West Virginia 
University, Lehigh, Pitt, and Case.
25 YEARS AGO, September 9,1969: 
3amegie-Mellon President H. Guyford 
Stever, in an open letter to the student 
body, addressed the concerns of students, 
faculty, and staff about protests on 
campus.
September 12,1969: The CMU Birth 
Control Committee announced its plans
10 YEARS AGO, September 11,1984: 
CMU President Richard Cyert 
announced a proposal that would bring 
a $103 million Software Engineering 
Institute to the University.... Zeta Beta 
Tau regained its recognition as a 
fraternity on campus. ZBT had its 
University recognition revoked the 
previous year because of serious 
incidents involving alcohol.
5 YEARS AGO, September 12,1989: 
PATransit moved to increase bus fares 
and discontinue student rates .... CMU 
leased nineteen units in the thenunfinished luxury Centre Plaza 
Apartments.... Tuition was raised 7.7% 
to $14,000 a year.... SEI protestor Vince 
Eirene was arrested in front of Doherty 
Hall on an outstanding warrant for 
defiant trespass.
Correction...
Last weeks article, Fair gets warm response, contained a factual inaccu
racy. The Graduate Student Organization first exhibited at the Activities Fair 
in 1991.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, 
lease contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Andrew Sproule at 268-2111, or write 
to him in care of The Tartan, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
15213-3890.
courtesy of Universal City Studios
Oscar and Tony-award winning actress Jessica Tandy, star of the 
1947 play A Streetcar Named Desire and the film Driving Miss 
Daisy, passed away this weekend at the age of 85.
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan Assistant News Co-Editor
Broadway and Hollywood are mourning the loss of Britishborn actress Jessica Tandy, who died Sunday at the age of 85. 
Her incredible career started when she was 16 and spanned 
six decades. Tandy spent most of her career on the stage 
when she captivated audiences as Blanche du Bois in the 
1947 debut ofTennesee'WiUiamsA Streetcar Named Desire; 
She played opposite Marlon Brando.
Her greatest fame came in her 80s, when a new generation 
of filmgoers discovered her talents. She had a featured role 
in the science-fiction film Cocoon, and her performance as 
Daisy Werthan, the southern matron, inDriving Miss Daisy, 
earned her an Oscar. In Daisy, Tandy played a crusty 
Atlanta widow who establishes a close friendship with her 
chauffeur, played by Morgan Freeman, over 25 years prior to 
the dawn of the civil rights movement.
Until that pivotal moment, Tandy had not been very, 
successful on the big screen. Her reputation came from her 
many theater performances which earned her three Tony 
awards, election into the Theater Hall of Fame in 1979 and 
honors from the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in 
1988.
Tandys second marriage in 1942 to actor Hume Cronyn 
was one of Hollywoods most enduring romances.Film, tele-; 
vision and stage audiences alike were enthralled by her vivid, 
and energetic performances that included a broad range of 
characters, including Jewish mothers, obedient daughters, 
and fierce matrons.
I dont construct characters based on my own life, she 
told an interviewer in 1989. The author very carefully, over 
months, constructs a character, and sometimes a character 
will take over and run away and construct itself. But then its 
my job to put flesh and bones on it, to get the very best out of 
it, not to make it different. Its not a creative process, its an 
interpretive process.
Four-Day Forecast
r 8/26 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
9:17 pm. A male managed to get 
on the roof of Wean Hall on the 
fast end and turn off the power to 
j the satellite dish.
\ 8/27 ASSAULT, 3:07 am. A 
; campus police officer responded 
to a call that a female had been 
assaulted in the area outside of 
Morewood E-Tower. When police 
arrived the victim had blood over 
\> her face and shirt and was cry! tog. The victim said she received 
a call from a friend to meet her 
I there. When she got there she 
as assaulted by five females.
8/27 OBSTRUCTION OF
'FIC, 4:04 am. A CMU of
ficer was traveling west on Forbes 
Ave. when he encountered a person lying in the middle of the 
road. When the officer walked 
towards the man, he got up and 
, ran off the road. He admitted to 
being drunk and was given an 
internal citation for obstruction 
f traffic.
9/3 MEDICAL CALL, 1:25 am.
Two Campus Police officers were 
patrolling the Fraternity Quad 
and were told of a male who looked 
ill.
When police arrived they found 
the person ready to pass out. He 
had vomited all over the ground. 
One witness said that the victim 
had been thrown out of a number 
of fraternity houses for grabbing 
and licking women.
The victim said that was un
true. He said he was thrown to 
the ground by a fraternity mem
ber. Neither story was followed 
up.
9/3 LIQUOR LAW VIOLA
TION, 2:42 am. Two campus po
lice officers were patrolling the 
fraternity quad when they saw 
two men standing outside the 
open door of a fraternity. One of 
the men was holding an open 
container of beer. When he saw 
the officers he dropped the can 
and went inside.The second man 
said he didnt know anything
about the other. The house was 
given an internal citation for the 
open container violation.
9/6 MEDICAL ESCORT, 7:52 
pm. An officer responded to a 
medical call at the Highlander 
Cafe for someone who splashed 
grease cleaner in their eye. Aline 
server said that after mixing 
water with a product called 
Grease Strip, she poured the so
lution on the grill and some 
splashed in her eye. She was 
transported to Presbyterian-University Hospital.
9/9 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 3:26 am. A Campus Po
lice officer and a security guard 
were passing a fraternity when 
they saw two women and a man 
fighting. One of the women was 
swinging a soda fountain syrup 
can at the man.
The women claimed that the 
man had been harassing them. 
During questioning, the man be
came loud and obnoxious. He was
using profanity and the officer 
smelled alcohol on his breath. He 
was cited for disorderly conduct.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report under 
the following guidelines:
 Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all Campus 
Police reports prior to release to 
The Tartan.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief, theNews Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
 Reports are printed at The 
Tartan Editor-in-Chiefs discre
tion.
 All personal names of com
plainants, victims, suspects and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic de
scriptions and other personal de
tails are given only in the context 
of a complete description.
 Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
EDWARD HAYES
Tuesday
Mostly sunny. 
High temper
ature in the mld80s.
Wednesday
Partly sunny; 
low temperature 
55, high 75.
Thursday
Partly sunny. 
Low 55; high 
temperature 80.
Friday
Partly sunny. 
Low in the upper 
50s; high In the 
lower 80s.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Student groups must 
resist conscription
In trying to do his job, the 
chair of Student Senate, Burt 
Holzman, set out to draft mem
bers for the election board. Natu
rally, we applaud any effort that 
will help facilitate the election 
process. However, please notice 
our use of the word draft.
In a letter to be sent out to 
student organizations today, 
Holzman has requested two vol
unteers from each student or
ganization to work on the elec
tions board. We find the word 
volunteer unusual when the 
letter goes on to say, I need to 
have these names by Septemberl8 ....Ifyou do not comply by 
September 18, both Emma 
Gosden, the Student Govern
ment Treasurer, and Merle 
Atkinson, the Senate F&R 
Chair, will freeze your budget 
until the names are received. 
Excuse me? Did we miss some
thing here? See, we were under 
the impression that the 
governments job was to govern 
and not force student organiza
tions to do their bidding with 
threats and blackmail.
Have we missed something in 
the bylaws? When did it become 
the right of the government to 
coerce its constituents into ser
vice? Is it a time of war?
Holzman said we at The Tar
tan are to be exempt from the 
draft, because of a supposed con
flict of interest. That is not fair. 
Any group that receives money 
from the Activities fee has an 
inherent conflict of interest.
Why wasnt this letter an
nounced at the Senate meeting? 
Was this an oversight, or was it 
intentional?
At the end of the letter, 
Holzman writes, ... without an 
elections board, we could not 
have a Senate, and without Sen
ate, you would not get allocated 
money out of the Activities Fee.  
Obviously, this is false. Senate 
would not end without an elec
tions board and we are certain 
that someone or something 
would fill the gap in allocating 
$500,000 ofthe studentsmoney. 
It is this sort of baseless threat 
that undermines our and the 
student bodys faith in Student 
Government.
After talking to Holzman, we 
realize that his intentions are 
good. However, no matter how 
good the intentions are, it seems 
that little thought was put into 
this action and that student or
ganizations may suffer.
Dining Services fails 
to serve student body
Dining services is trying to 
ensure what is already a practi
cal monopoly. Roger Heydt, head 
of dining services, has limited 
Carnegie Mellons affiliation 
with Dominos Pizza, which 
means that students will no 
longer be able to use DineXpress 
to pay for Dominos. Heydtsjustification for this action is that 
campus dining services can pro
vide the same quality of food 
and service. He also complained 
that the affiliation with 
Dominos was costing the school 
too much money.
Well, Heydt, maybe if dining 
services concentrated more on 
quality than on efficiency, you 
wouldnt be losing your custom
ers to a pizza joint. Maybe a 
little competition is just what 
dining services needs in order to 
bring about some improve
ments.
Though it may have seemed 
an impossible scenario, the food 
and service quality actually 
seems to have gone down since 
the Kiltie Court moved to 
Morewood Gardens. How do the 
head honchos at dining services 
think they will be able to match 
the service and quality of 
Dominos if they can hardly 
manage the facilities currently 
under operation?
Take two of Dominos stron
gest features: they deliver, and 
theyre open until two oclock in 
the morning. If dining services 
expects to match the service of 
Dominos they are going to have 
to stay open until 2 am and 
deliver to students dormitories 
and other buildings on campus. 
This is not likely to happen.
Aside from convenient service, 
in order to match Dominos, din
ing services will also have to 
make better food. Somehow, the
staff at Carnegie Mellon can 
take food from Marriott, a na
tional food supplier, and make 
it into something it was never 
meanttobe. Other universities, 
such as Wittenberg, outside of 
Columbus, Ohio, serve excellent 
Marriot food, but for some rea
son, dining services at Carnegie 
Mellon is unable to reach stan
dards set elsewhere.
In fact, CMU has demon
strated in the past that it is not 
able to maintain even low stan
dards.
Students still around from the 
days that Taco Bell existed on 
campus complain that the one 
place here did not match up to 
the not so unobtainable Taco 
Bell standards established 
across the country.
We would like to recommend 
that not only should dining ser
vices reestablish relations with 
Dominos, but that it should also 
make arrangements for other 
establishments in the area to 
take the CMU meal plan. This 
would give students more 
choices and help remedy the lim
ited food choices on campus. In 
order to cover expenses, it would 
be possible for dining services to 
charge a percentage fee when 
the meal plan is used off cam
pus.
Dining services is a part of the 
CMU community which is sup
posed to be more of a home for 
the students than a business 
trying to make a buck off of 
them. By allowingthe meal plan 
to be used off campus, dining 
services could cut back on staff, 
expenses, and crowds in on-campus dining establishments. 
Also, and most importantly, stu
dents would benefit by having 
easier access to more dining 
options of higher quality.
Letters to the Editor
Movie reviewer 
lacked insight
o%
Letter to the Editor
Letter to the Editor
Editor:
I read the last Tar
tan, and the review of 
Natural Bora Kill
ers by Kathy Wright 
[Stone flick contami
nates soul, 9/6] really disgusted me.
After films like Platoon, JFK, and 
Bom on the 4th of July, I thought one 
would be able to learn to look past the 
screen when watching a film by Oliver 
Stone. Amplification of violence was his 
goal. Didnt Wright notice the audience 
laughing at the most gruesome and vio
lent scenes? Stone was laughing at us as 
we were laughing at the scenes. He
proved that what we really want is vio
lence. Cops, Highway Patrol, and 
Rescue 911 are the daily shows on 
FOX, NBC and other major networks. 
We are bored with our daily lives, no 
adventure, no excitement (M&M 
[Mickey and Malory] is the best thing 
that happened to mass murders since 
Manson is the quote from the film, 
remember?).
Stone wanted and delivered an ugly 
and pornographic piece of cinematogra
phy for us. The Demon of violence will 
always live  that was the Demon that 
Stone showed, the Demon that the old 
Indian saw before his death, the Demon 
that Mickey was talking about before 
his electrocution. That Demon surfaced 
in TV persona later in the movie, as he 
joined M & M on the shoot-em -up in the
end of the film.
But, Wright left the presence of the 
silver screen to the rest of the audience 
and departed before the finale. To re
view a film one has to see it in its en
tirety, Ms. Wright. What you did was 
look at three-fourths of the painting. 
This film was made to force us to think 
about the glorification of violence in 
America. I guess you did not want to do 
that; after all, thinking is not the pro
cess for you, you can just snap your 
fingers and come up with the truth, I 
suppose.
God has given us two eyes so we can 
have the perception of depth. Wright, 
open your other eye.
Mikhail Rutman 
Sophomore, Computer Science
Guns protect innocent, prevent crime
The right to keep and bear arms is one of your fundamental [* 
rights. It is inherent in your right to self defense. What could 
be more fundamental than the right to protect your own life?
I dont mean to upset anyone, but the police are not iresponJames Stepanek sible for protecting you. If something happens to you, you 
cannot find the police liable for failing to protect you. The 
police are there as a deterrent. They are there to insureAs a friend of David Hunt (former Tartan columnist)I feel 
it is my responsibility to note his departure to the real world punishment, not to prevent things. The American system of 
(poor guy), and to inform any of you folks who had assumed justice (or what it once was) has always been based on the
his departure meant that it was safe to read Forum again 
without all of the pro-gun rights stuff: sorry, no dice.
Dave often told me how just a few years ago that if someone 
had said he was going to be in the NRA and own a gun, he 
would have replied that they were crazy. He is now in the 
NRA, and with his job has been able to afford a gun. This 
shows what a little persuasion and a bunch of facts can do. 
You may have thought that his positions were a little ex
treme.
premise of innocent until proven guilty. This means that the 
police must wait until a crime is committed before they act. 
The problem is that its rather unlikely that the criminal is 
going to conveniently act while there is a police officer around.
One sentiment which is often expressed is that a society is 
barbaric if it has lots of guns, with the presence of guns 
obviously leading to lots of crime. This is a particularly 
popular sentiment with Europeans, who often allude to the 
notion that much of Europe is crime free (relatively) because
Well, Im the one who introduced Dave to the importance of it is gun free. They seem to imply that if guns were introduced 
the right to keep and bear arms and took him shooting for the to their countries then rampant crime would erupt. How 
first time, so dont expect any moderation from me. Not all of could you possibly define a nation as civilized if all that was
these columns will be about gun ownership rights; I also 
intend comment on other things, but they shall remain a 
staple.
Im going to start here by addressing some large misconcep
tions. How about the traditional ________________________
Guns lead to crime  how do 
people get convinced of this?
Guns are not mind control de
vices. If somebody can convince 
me that they are, then I must 
have gotten one hell of a bargain 
on them. I thought my guns fired 
bullets; if they do both thats 
quite a set of abilities for an
The use of firearms is the saf
est way to protect yourself. 
Firearms are the only rational 
means of self defense.
required for mass chaos was the availability of a tool? This 
doesnt sound like they have a civilization, but rather a bunch 
of barbarians who have been cowed by a government.
I will exempt the Swiss from this since they are probably the 
only nation in the world which 
has a better armed populace than 
the U.S., not to mention a pro
gun lobby which makes the NRA 
look like a bunch of pikers. They 
also have basically no crime.
Just to show that guns are 
simply not the problem, lets look 
at Florida vs. Washington DC. 
In Florida they passed a law
inanimate object. Of course the fact that Ive been around few years back saying that if you wanted a concealed carry 
guns all my life and they havent taken me over (other than license you could get one by passing a background check and 
acting as a fiscal drain of no small size on my wallet) must passing a certified (by the NRA) test. This could not be 
mean Im immune, so theyre especially worthwhile to me. interfered with by local police unless they had a valid legal 
How about the maxim that guns are no good for self reason to deny the permit, 
defense? This is pure nonsense. A number of studies have The media decried this as a death knell for law and order 
been done on this subject. Guns are used for self defense in and predicted mass shootings in the streets once the citizen 
this country in between 600,000 and 2.4 million cases a year gun owners were out.
(the bounds set by various studies, the more modern ones What really happened? Violent crime dropped by 20 pergiving the latter number). An analysis of different ways of cent. Sounds like the news people hit that nail right on the 
resisting a crime by the FBI reveals that the use of firearms head. Total amount of incidents of people abusing their carry 
is the safest way to protect yourself. Firearms are the only permits was well under one percent of all permit holders. Id 
rational means of self defense. How else is a 90-pound woman say that speaks pretty well for the average gun owner,
going to defend herself from a 280-pound man? Pepper spray? 
Thats a good laugh. There are firearm courses out there 
which by themselves prove pepper spray ineffective. People 
taking the course submit to being sprayed in the face with one 
of the commercial pepper sprays, and then fire at the target 
(immediately). Most ofthe people score just fine. (This is done 
to provide the trainee with an argument of why he used a gun 
instead of such sprays if theyre ever in court.) Id bet that a 
determined attacker is only likely to be even more angry and 
determined. Some of you may advocate those stun guns, but 
I can assure you that they are little more than a bad practical 
joke device. Friends and I used to zap each other with one of 
these for fun and all that was elicited was a retaliatory punch.
wouldnt you?
Please see GUN, page 5
Parking * University Center  Greeks  Student Involvment  Stude' 
Senate  Athletic Facilities ? Womens Issues * Enrollment * Stude# 
Health  Banking  Politics ? Funding  Football Field  Student Main- * 
ConstitutiGjjJ^flnstructian Overcrowding * Contras * Housing 0 Sorori
ties CharitM^ Gymnasium ? Dining Service * Environment * Recyclini
Presidential Search  WRCT C Computers  Classified Research  DC-l^j 
Howdys Volume * Bill's Hair  Funding  Student AiMrs * Construction 
Overcrowding  Housing  Sororities 0 Charities * Dining Service ' 
Environment Hostages  Recycling  Congress R Middle East

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  12 September 19945
'Generation X excludes most of usTHETARTANHJMRonak Singhal
The apparent angst of our generation 
has turned Kurt Cobain from a heroin 
addict to the voice of a generation. The 
apparent anger of our generation has 
created what some people see as a war 
between generations. And the apparent 
nature of our generation has earned us 
!he label of Generation X. These stereo
types of people our age seem to be there 
niore through the work of the media than 
i for any actual reason.
For example, look at Kurt Cobain. 
Seven months ago, he was the lead singer 
ofNirvana, one ofthe most popular groups 
of the decade. Still, most Americans had 
jrobably never heard of him. Seven 
months later, this former heroin addict 
ias become a martyr whose death sup
posedly symbolizes the hopelessness that 
we feel.
Cobain was a good musician and I did
like his music, but to say that he is the voice 
of our generation is just as absurd as calling 
Bill Clinton the voice of Vietnam veterans. 
Cobains music was not widely popular; it 
was only well-received by a small portion of 
the overall population. Cobains music did 
not ask people to examine themselves; in
stead it began the stereotypes about our 
generation that continue to linger. Finally,
are angry at those bom before us. Suppos
edly we feel this way because we are dis
traught at the current state of affairs in 
this country and we fear that our standard 
of living will be lower than that of our 
parents. But the majority of people that I 
know are excited about their future. It is 
true that there are not an excess number of 
jobs available, but for those work hard and
The term Generation X has become a moniker 
used by the media to describe us ... If I'm a 
member of this supposed group, I'd like to can
cel my membership.
the majority of all this hype surrounding 
Cobain is the result of one song, Smells 
Like Teen Spirit, not from a large compen
dium of works.
Labeling Cobain as our voice does us a 
great disservice, because to those who do 
not know us, their ideas of what we feel and 
believe are being shaped into false forms. 
Another myth of our generation is that we
are motivated, the opportunities for us seem 
endless. We are the first people to grow up 
with the computer. We have become the 
pioneers of the information superhighway 
and we possess greater technological knowl
edge than any previous generation. This 
supposed hopelessness has become part of 
our supposed persona because of movies 
like Singles and Reality Bites that show
us what we are supposed to be acting 
like.
Furthermore, we are supposed to be 
the most open-minded generation. While 
it is true we are probably more tolerant 
than any other generation, just remem
ber what William Bennett, former Sec
retary of Education, once said: An open 
mind is a good thing to have, just dont 
let it be so open that your brain falls 
out. Our generation is no different than 
any other; we have many people of many 
different schools of thought. To lump us 
together into one school of thought that 
supposedly loves Bill Clinton, the great 
spotted owl, and hates guns is clearly 
wrong.
The term GenerationX has become a 
moniker used by the media to describe 
us, and, in doing so, they have created a 
stereotype of a typical person of our 
generation that is completely false. If 
Im a member of this supposed groujp, Id 
like to cancel my membership.
Ronak Singhal is a sophomore ECE 
major who vows never to sit in the trunk 
of a car again.
The issue of drug legaliza
tion has been hotly debated 
in recent years. Many theo
rize that decriminalizing 
hard drugs would halt the 
profitable and violent illegal 
drug trade. Others favor the 
legalization ofrecreational 
drugs such as marijuana, 
reasoning that these drugs 
are no more harmful than 
alcohol and tobacco. We 
asked students: Should 
drugs be legalized? Why 
or why not?
Galel Sanchez 
Sophomore
Mechanical Engineering
Certain drugs should be le
galized, like marijuana. Its not 
as bad as alcohol and should be 
treated more like a social drug. 
The more you prohibit some
thing, the more people are going 
to find ways to get it.
No, its not good for peoples 
health and it makes people do 
crazy things.
Yes, they should legalize 
drugs. Lifes already going to 
hell. Why should we suffer any
more? It helps us escape from 
places like CMU.
Gun freedom makes sense
GUN, from page 4
Lets look at the contrary ex
ampleWashingtonD.C., where 
the tightest gun control in the 
country exists. In D.C. you cant 
own a handgun at all and even 
hunting rifles must be kept dis
assembled (unless you are a U.S. 
Senator like Jay Rockefeller (D) 
who owns an AR-15, and keeps it 
with him in D.C. and who voted 
to ban them). Well, how about 
that, the tightest gun control and 
the highest crime rate?
Now, Im not going to fall for 
the traditional fallacy of the gun 
control types and say correlation 
implies causation, but Id cer
tainly say it does disprove things. 
It disproves the notion that gun 
control will work against crime. I 
will admit some control is neces
sary. We already have it: it is 
illegal for a felon or an individual 
with a history of mental illness to 
buy a gun.
To use an old maxim from my 
side of the issue, when guns are 
outlawed, only criminals will have 
guns. Yep, its a clich, and ex
tremely timeworn, but its true.
Say Im a wanted felon and I 
have multiple murder charges 
which Im facing. Do you actually 
think Im going to give a damn 
about any minor felony charge 
that comes from carrying some 
gun which I cant legally own? 
Criminals generally have more 
to gain, and much less to lose 
from ignoring gun laws.
James Stepanek is a PhD stu
dent in materials science engi
neering who has been here a 
bloody long time.
Camegle Mellons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief....Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed. .Samuel Greenfield
News Editor............Jason Togyer
Forum Editor...............Abby Schiff
Sports Editor.............Eric Strauss
Features Editor.......Eric Salzman
Diversions Editor ....Kathy Wright 
Calendar Editor... Brockett Horne 
Dossier Literary Ed. Lauren Heinz
Art Co-Editors..........Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong ,
Photo Editor...............Jim Snyder
Production Mgr......Katie Swango
Systems Mgr.......Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Editors Angela Molloy 
Edward Hayes
Asst. Forum Ed........Kris Hlnrichs ,
Asst. Sports Eds.CarolynSkarada 
Asst. Diversions Ed. ...John Biggs
Asst. Prod. Mgr......Derek Wahila
Photo Staff Manager. David Perry
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, Declan McCullagh
Staffwriters 
Jason Andracki, Jennifer Barkln, 
David Bazelon, Mahua Dutta, Jes
sica Fang, Andl Francionl, Shan
non Gibney, Dan Goldwasser, AnuJ 
Gupta, Tom Harper, Jason Helnlein, 
Justin Lam, Matthew Messner, 
Jesse Nice, Ronak Singhal, Jason 
Specland, Bethany Sutton, Jenni
fer Turner, Mike Walker, John 
Weber
Art
Justin Carroll, Gabrlen Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Nick Casciato Jr., 
Matt Goldberg, Mark Kantrowltz, 
David White
Photo
VIneet Agarwal, Bassem El-Dasher, 
Andrew Flores, Andrew 
McDermott, Pat Prasangsit, Maria 
Valenti, Cheryl Viaud
Darkroom 
Jon Confer, Tom Gilbert, Evan 
Shechter, Margaret Stallings
Production 
Ken Kraemer, Kathy Liu, Jason 
Ma, Carrie McDonough, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Eric Pettus
Copy
Roshnl Bhakta, Madhav Ghanta, 
D. Renee Hairston, Lisa Kruglak, 
Ed Slavlshak
Business 
Christa Bower, Chlntan Shah
Junior Staff 
Jin Bae, Robert Brunsklll, Chandra 
Buist, Mlml Cheng, Manfrled Chua, 
Carey Clevenger, Kristen Connell, 
Seth A. Covitz, Tushar Dubey, 
Christina A. Farrell, Samantha 
Gerlch, Amy Haupl, Ron Kurtl, 
Vladimir Labelkovsky, Jonmlchael 
Lltman, Taw Moy, Buck Neel, 
Chrlstoper Nelson, Chin Oh, Jason 
Seigendorf, Matthew J. Solitro, 
Becca Stallings, James Stepanek, 
JacksonTam, Danlella Topol, Dawn 
Wallhausen, Vivien Weiss, Natalie 
Wochele, Brian Young
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at nocostto 
members ofthe University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
Inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. 'Hie editorials 
appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section are the official opinion of The Tar
tan editorial board. Columns and political 
cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions 
of authors who are usually, but not neces
sarily, members of the University commu
nity. A letter Intended for publication must 
be signed and Include the writer's address 
and phone numberfor verification. Names 
may be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
requests that letters be no longerthan 500 
words. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter. Copyright  
1994 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ 
Camegle Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890
Funded In part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reseived.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Welfare reform starts with attitude
* Matt Ball
In our society, rights have 
become aridiculous self-parody, 
expanded to include anything 
we want. The right to equality 
of opportunity has been super
seded by the right to a good 
job, to total health care, to 
higher education, etc. It has 
become so absurd that a friend 
of mine (who has no health in
surance) recently suggested he 
might as well start pursuing 
Huxleys vision of the right to 
sex on demand.
The absurdities and destruc
tive nature of our incessant 
clamoring for more rights is 
nowhere more apparent than 
in the debate over welfare re
form.
As the welfare system is cur
rently set up, women who have 
more children while on welfare 
receive more money from oth
ers via the government. This 
extra money is considered to be 
a right  on a national talk 
show, a woman on welfare with 
seven children and pregnant 
with the eighth said that it was 
her right to have as many 
children as she wanted, and 
that it was the governments 
obligation to pay for her chil
dren.
A few states have recently 
tried to enact welfare reform
whereby women do not receive 
extra money for having more 
children. By most measures - 
namely the number of children 
bom to welfare mothers - these 
programs have met with some 
success.
But by the reactions of some, 
one would think thatthese states 
were lining up women and chil
dren for the firing squad. Many 
people decry the discrimina
tion against these women. By
Bringing a child into the 
world while on welfare not only 
decreases the chances of the 
mother leaving the circle of pov
erty and hardship, but con
demns de facto the child to the 
same life. In most cases, a child 
bom into the welfare system 
will not ever leave, thus facing 
a life of inner-city destitution, 
surrounded by crime and 
drugs.
A system that perpetuates
Receiving payments from others 
must be viewed as a contract... 
one of the stipulations would be 
not to have children while depen
dent upon others' money.
not giving these women more 
money (taken from other citi
zens), the states are denying 
these women their fundamen
tal right to reproduce.
It is easy for an upper-middle 
class white male to sit back and 
complain about the misuse of 
his tax dollars. It is also true 
that, in the face ofthe waste and 
fraud in the defense budget and 
agricultural subsidies, welfare 
is a relatively small problem 
fiscally.
However, there is something 
far more insidious going on, and 
to deal with it without punish
ing innocent children requires 
significantly more extreme meathis cycle and condemns chil
dren to this life couldindeed 
should  be seen as immoral. 
Fixing the system requires an 
understanding of what is at 
stake  the lives of innocent 
children.
People applying for welfare 
are saying that they cannot 
care for themselves, and thus 
need other people to pay their 
bills. Obviously, if a person 
cannot care for herself, she 
cannot care for another per
son, especially a if that person 
is a child. As a society, we do 
not allow someone on welfare 
to adopt an already-existing 
child.
Instead of being a right, re
ceiving payments from others 
must be viewed as a contract; in 
order not to perpetuate this cycle 
of poverty, one ofthe stipulations 
of this contract would have to be 
not to have children while depen
dent upon others money.
This can be done by supplying 
welfare applicants (men and 
women) with Norplant or the 
equivalent as the condition of the 
welfare contract. While todays 
welfare reform tends to punish 
children bom to welfare moth
ers, requiring the use of contra
ception would minimize this situ
ation.
This would not be fascism, for it 
would not infringe on any rights 
the person on welfare is under 
no obligation to enter into the 
contract. However, it is not a right 
to take money from others; if 
people taking public assistance 
wanted to have children, they 
would be able to once they found 
a job and were able to support 
themselves. This would also not 
be, as some have termed it, geno
cide, but instead would help to 
break the cycle of poverty that 
creates the violence that kills so 
many today.
Instead of being barbaric, this 
system would be humane in that 
it would free children from lives 
in the ghetto, and would allow 
more children to be valued and 
cared for as the important re
sponsibility they are. This would 
be right.
Matt Ball is a father and a PhD 
student in engineering and pub
lic policy.
Cherry Wang 
Freshman
Chemical Engineering
John Rosenberg
Sophomore
Architecture
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Doug Hudson
Sophomore
IM/IS/Russian
I think that its a hot topic 
and one that needs to be dis
cussed. We are losing the war on 
drugs and we need to take dras
tic measures, especially on le
galizing marijuana. It depends 
on the person.

---------------------------------------------------

A N \ O V X C 1 N G T W O X K \V C R E F A CCO L X T S
YOURE LOOKING AT TWO COMPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. 
________WE RECOMMEND BOTH.________
Introducing the CREF Growth Account and the CREF Equity Index Account.
W
hether you want a fund that 
selects specific stocks or one that 
covers the market, were on the same page. 
Our new CREF Growth and CREF 
Equity Index Accounts use two distinct 
strategies for investing in the stock mar
ket, but both aim to provide what every 
smart investor looks for: long-term 
growth that outpaces inflation?'
The CREF Growth Account searches 
for individual companies that are 
poised For superior growth. In contrast, 
the Equity Index Account looks for more 
diversification, with a portfolio encom
passing almost the entire range of U.S. 
stock investments. It will invest in stocks
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.9
in the Russell 3000** a broad index of 
U.S. stocks.
Like our CREF Stock Account, which 
combines active, indexed, and foreign 
investing, and our Global Equities 
Account, which actively seeks opportuni
ties worldwide, the new funds are managed 
by experienced investment professionals. 
Theyre the same experts who have helped 
make TIAA-CREF the largest pension 
system in the U.S., managing over $130 
billion in assets.
To find out more about our new stock 
funds, and building your portfolio with 
TIAA-CREF, just call 1 800-842-2776.
And take your pick.
ailable lor Retirement Annulliti iubed lo the icrmi of your inilitutiona plan. They arr available for all Supplemental Retirement Annuitici, 
tertd trademark of the Frank Runell Company. Runell ii not a ipomor of the CREF Equity Inde Account and it not affiliated with it in any way. 
n. including charge and penici- call I 800-842-2753. et. 5509 for a CREF proipectui. Read the proipectui carefully before you inveii or tend money. 
CRKF certificale, are diitribuled by TIAA-CREF Individual and Inilitutional Service!, Inc.
The BA II PLUS has unique display 
prompts that guide you through 
problems. It offers basic business 
functions like time-value-of-money. 
Plus, it delivers cash flow analysis 
for internal rate of return (IRR). 
Net present value (NPV). Bond 
calculations. Depreciation. 
Advanced statistics.
Management, marketing, finance or accounting major? You 
know dollars and cents. Get a BA II PLUS Calculator from Texas 
Instruments. Its designed for students and professionals and 
recommended by professors. Or try the BA-35, our most affordable 
model for time-value-of-money and one-variable statistics.
If youre in the financial fast lane, TI Business Calculators 
make the most sense. Try one at your local TI retailer today, or 
for more information, call 1-800-TI-CARES.
EXTENDING YOUR REACH"
*TexasInstruments
e-mail: ti-cares @ Iobby.ti.comIn Canada, call 1-800-661-2007. 01994 Tl. IH000181
Each year graduate and under
graduate members of the univer
sity community are selected to 
participate as decision-makers in 
the UDC process. On a regular 
basis, four members (2 faculty/ 
staff and 2 students) of the com
mittee review facts related to al
leged violations of university 
policy in order to determine an ap
propriate response. The Office of 
Student Affairs is now accepting 
applications for the 1994-95 board 
members.
To become a part of the UDC 
process or to learn more about op
portunities in university gover
nance, contact Kevin Hughes, As
sistant to the Dean of Student Af
fairs (x8-2074, kh42). Applica
tions are available in the Office of 
Student Affairs in Warner Hall.
You can set the standard!
Apply to join the University Committee on Discipline 
1 of 13 standing University Committees
As a member of a UDC you will:
 Increase your awareness of the issues that face 
our campus community
 Respond to the way in which university policy 
reflects the standard of the university
 Directly influence definitions of community 
standards for Carnegie Mellon
 Educate and respond to individuals who alleg
edly violate university standards
 Work with peers and members of the faculty 
and staff in order to make sound decisions
 Be challenged to think critically, to ask ques
tions, and to think about your own views
A

---------------------------------------------------

'omens soccer stops Case for first time
Team also shuts out Waynesburg to improve to 2-1
iy MATTHEW J. SOLITRO
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon womens 
rarsity soccer team had a very 
Successful week. They recorded 
?two shutouts and brought their 
ecord to two wins and one loss. 
Saturday afternoon, the Tar&ns battled the Spartans of Case 
Western Reserve University in 
;heir home opener. CMU showed 
lot of promise in its first UAA 
;ame of the season, winning 2-0. 
From the start of the game, the 
'artans were playing aggreslively and really going to the ball, 
'hey won a lot of 50-50 balls, 
laid head coach Julie Shackford. 
Their first goal came early in 
the first half when sophomore 
Mae Hogan sent a comer kick 
into a mass of CMU jerseys right 
in front of the net. Junior Nicole 
gPoisson used her head to find the 
back of the net and put CMU up 
1-0.
Thats something that were 
working on, is just getting some
body to step up and win the balls 
that are totally 50-50 in the box, 
Shackford said. We also wanted 
to be stronger in finishing on cor
ners; thats also one of our goals. 
The goal, Poissons fourth of 
the season, really sparked the 
Tartans, who dominated the re
mainder of the half.
In the second half, the Tartans 
continued to play aggressively 
and keep the ball in the offensive 
half. Poisson and seniors Chris/ tina Isaly and Julie Paul were 
really causing problems for the 
Case defenders, but the Tartans 
were not able to score again until 
sophomore Alyssa Newman sent 
a high, arching shot over the 
goalies head and into the net. 
Case made no serious threats 
until the closing minutes of the 
game, but they were still unable 
to score.
Stong defense 
was the key to
day, said Shack
ford. I dont mean 
just the defenders 
 everyone de
fended well.
Solid defense 
helped sophomore 
goalie Jill Weber 
record her second 
shutout of the 
week.
Shackford was 
really pleased 
with the way her 
team played.
They totally 
dominated. They 
won 50-50 balls 
and their defen
sive clearances 
were tremen
dous.
The coaches 
pre-season poll 
had placed Case ahead of CMU.
This is only our fourth year as 
a [varsity] program and only our 
third year in the conference, said 
Shackford. Weve never beaten 
Case, so thats a big milestone for 
our program. Were a year stron
ger. Theyre starting to talk more. 
Theyre starting to get more com
fortable with each other.
The players seem to agree. We 
really started to come together as
Natalie Wochele/Tartan photographer
Senior soccer player Julie Paul dribbles through the Case Western Reserve University defense In Carnegie Mellons 2-0 win on Saturday.
a team, said Hogan.
Tuesday afternoon, the team 
traveled to Waynesburg College 
and defeated them by a whop
ping score of 6-0. The Tartans 
overwhelmed Waynesburg with 
persistent offensive attack and 
unforgiving defense.
Leading the attack with three 
goals was Poisson. Goals also 
came from Newman, who scored 
two, and junior Maria Casella, 
who had one.
The Tartans 
travel to rival Al
legheny College on 
Wednesday and 
then host UAA op
ponent Washing
ton University of 
St. Louis on Satur
day. They then play 
three games in four 
days, first against 
Hiram, at Witten
berg, and Seton 
Hill.
Natalie Wochele/Tartan photographer 
Sophomore Mae Hogan (#20) assisted on the 
winning goal against Case.
Natalie Wochele/Tartan photographer 
Senior Julie Paul takes aim on the ball during Carnegie Mellons 2-0 whitewash of Case Western.
Mens soccer downs W&J, Case, remains unbeaten
By MATTHEW J. SOLITRO
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
j This past week, the mens varsity soc
cer team battled through a number of 
injuries and continued their undefeated 
streak. Were still beat up pretty good, 
but were trying, said head coach Nick 
I Gaudioso.
1 Saturday afternoon, the Tartans 
hosted their first UAA opponent of the 
| season, Case Western Reserve Univer18ity. An added bonus to the team was the 
return of senior Jeff McJunkin, who 
missed the teams first two games due to 
injury. Jeffs still hurt. Hes playing, 
Ljbut hes still hurt, said Gaudioso. 
McJunkin got off to a rough start when 
a cross by Case deflected off his leg and 
into his own net in the first minute of the 
game. However, the Tartans recovered 
j quickly and came storming back to tie 
the game at one apiece off a corner kick.
Senior Alex Amezquita headed the ball 
towards the net and senior Mike 
Brazinski put it away. The Tartans were 
working the ball well and really control
ling the game for the remainder of the 
half. Senior Chuck Kuba put CMU ahead 
with a header off a cross from the right 
side. The Tartans got another goal be
fore the end of the half when a Case 
defender deflected a free kick by senior 
Vince Russell into his own net.
CMU played most of the second half 
without two of its starters, Amezquita 
and junior Alan Levin. We get one guy 
on the field that was hurt, and then we 
get another hurt, said Gaudioso. The 
second half was a little more even with 
action going back and forth. After a 
number of threatening shots, Case was 
finally able to score after an errant clear 
by the Tartans. After the goal, Case 
started to play really rough. Brazinski 
was sandwiched by the goalie and a
Case defender on a fast break, but no 
foul was called. A short time later, a 
Case player received his second yellow 
card of the game and was ejected. Case 
finished the game a man down, but the
As hurt as we are, we're 
playing okay. 
 Nick Gaudioso
Tartans were not able to score again  
holding on to win by a final score of 3-2.
As hurt as we are, were playing okay, 
said Gaud-ioso. Were still 3-0 and thats 
whats important right now. Even 
though he is still injured, McJunkin 
definitely made a difference in the back. 
Hes playing the ball to peoples feet. 
Hes playing at a slow pace but just
controlling a little more, said Gaudioso. 
McJunkin added, Im still pretty sore, 
but it was the first conference game. I 
didnt want to sit out. I wanted to play. 
We have a lot of guys hurting. To get this
-_______ first conference win was
important.
The Tartans opened up 
their home schedule 
against Washington & 
Jefferson on Wednesday
___________ evening. The Tartans
showed tremendous skill 
and speed while control
ling the ball (despite McJunkins ab
sence). Meanwhile, Washington & 
Jefferson had to resort to blasting the 
ball and chasing after it. However, it 
was W&J who scored first when a cross 
from the right side deflected straight to 
an open W&J player directly in front of 
the net. CMU came right back with a
flurry of shots. W&J was in the process
of clearing out a corner kick when senior 
Pat Lucignani stepped up and blasted a 
shot right past the goalie from 30 yards 
out. At halftime, the score was tied at 
one a piece.
In the second half, the Tartans picked 
up where they left off in the first half. 
They continued to maintain possession 
of the ball and create numerous oppor
tunities for goals. The Tartans totally 
shut down W&Js offense. Sophomore 
Neil Armstrong, who was playing in 
place of the injured McJunkin, showed 
great poise when he stopped a W&J fast 
break. CMUs second goal came from 
freshman Jason Buelow, who collected a 
pass from Lucignani at the top of the 
penalty box, set up, and planted one in 
the back of the net. W&J made a late 
surge but senior goalkeeper made a num
ber of key saves off corner kicks. 
Brazinski continued to pressure the W&J 
Please see UNBEATEN, page 11
Football team cant take advantage of Allegheny errors
By JOHN WEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
On a beautiful afternoon at Al
legheny College in Meadville, the 
Tartans found themselves in an 
Uphill battle against one of the 
top teams in Division III. The 
Tartans kept the score close until 
the fourth quarter, when Allegh
eny pulled away for good. The 
final score was Allegheny 37, 
Carnegie Mellon 22.
This loss broke the Tartans 
six-game winning streak dating 
back to last fall. Midway through 
the first quarter, Allegheny also 
broke the Tartans shutout streak 
with a 25-yard field goal. And 
then the dam burst, as the Gators 
Went on to score 37 points and 
roll up 508 total yards on the 
Carnegie Mellon defense.
The Tartans started the game 
with the ball and soon had to
punt it away, but on the punt 
return Alleghenys Andy 
McKenzie fumbled the ball right 
back into the Tartans hands. 
However, the Tartan offense con
tinued to sputter, and the Tar
tans soon found themselves punt
ing again.
Senior quarterback Chris Dee 
said that the Tartans werent 
flat at the start of the game, but 
instead Alleghenys defense did 
a couple things we werent ex
pecting them to do. He also said 
that the Allegheny offense came 
out the first quarter, and they 
took it to us on the first two pos
sessions.
The Gators, led by quarterback 
Paul Bell, drove 72 yards and 
kicked a field goal to take a 3-0 
lead. Then, after the Tartans 
punted again, Allegheny drove to 
the Carnegie Mellon 13-yard line, 
where Bell hit P. J. Foley for a
Gator touchdown.
Late in the first quarter, trail
ing 10-0, Dee ended another Tar
tan drive by throwing an inter
ception, putting the ball in 
Allegheny's hands on the Tar
tans 38 yard line. Things were 
looking bleak until running back 
Chuck Bremer coughed the ball 
up to the Tartans at the 13 yard 
line.
This fumble seemed to spark 
the Tartan offense. After a few 
short runs, senior Jason Grusky 
got loose on the right side and 
took off for a 23-yard pick up to 
midfield. Then, a few minutes 
later, the Tartans gambled on 
4th down and 10 with a pass to 
the end zone and it worked. Dee 
found freshman Ricardo Parrish 
streaking down the sideline for a 
26-yard touchdown to make the 
score 10-7.
But the Gators scored on their
next possession, a six minute, 
nine second drive covering 65 
yards, on a 6-yard Bell touch
down pass. However, the Tar
tans roared right back down the 
field.
The Tartan possession of
fense, which features a variety of 
runs and short passes, took the 
Tartans to the Allegheny 23 yard 
line. Then on third down and two, 
Dee found junior Mike Mathias 
in the end zone for the score to 
make it 17-14 in favor of Allegh
eny.
Finally, the Tartans got a break 
late in the half when a 53-yard 
touchdown pass by Bell was called 
back for holding, which kept the 
score 17-14 at the half.
The second half began with 
Allegheny driving 80 yards in just 
over 10 minutes to increase the 
Gator lead to 10. But the game 
was still in reach. After a Tartan
punt, Allegheny again fumbled 
the ball away at midfield, but the 
Tartans were unable to capital
ize.
After the game, Dee agreed that 
Allegheny made some mistakes, 
and we werent able to convert on 
them. The end of the third and 
beginning of the fourth quarters 
didnt have any scoring and were 
played evenly on both sides.
But with under eight minutes 
remaining, Bell finished off a 
Gator drive with a quarterback 
sneak to make the score 30-14. 
At this point the game was just 
about out of reach, but when Bell 
ran in from the 7-yard line with 
less than three minutes left, the 
game was definitely over.
However, the Tartans put to
gether one last drive and scored 
on a Dee pass to Parrish with 28 
seconds remaining. The final 
score was Allegheny 37-22.
The Allegheny offense finished 
the game with 32 first downs, 318 
yards rushing and possessed the 
ball for 31 minutes and 51 sec
onds. Bell had a great day for the 
Gators, tying a school record with 
19 completions and picking up 
190 yards passing, 73 yards rush
ing and four touchdowns (two 
rushing, two passing). Later, Dee 
complemented the quarterback 
by saying Bell has a strong arm 
and he stands strong in the 
pocket. Also, Bremer rushed for 
127 yards for the Gators.
Dee didnt have a bad game 
himself, passing for 161 yards 
and three touchdowns with one 
interception. Grusky led the Tar
tans with 98 yards on the ground.
Next week the Tartans will 
travel to Memphis, Tennessee, to 
play Rhodes College before open
ing their home schedule against 
Juniata College on September 24.

---------------------------------------------------

I need the FR66d.0lH
to call wherever I 
want, whenever i want.
I need to spend timeTaLkinG with people
who matter to me without
spending my life savings.
I need customer 
that keeps the same
hours I do.
Thats why X need the 
convenience and 
of my ACUS Service and the
crisp clear quality of AT&T.
Campus Residents call 1*800*445*6063 Its all part of the AT&T Campus Advantage*.1"

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  12 September 19949
alias 'dynasty eclipsed by San Francisco
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
The question on everyones 
lind as we start the 1994 foottll season is, Can the Cowboys 
the first team to win three 
uper Bowls in a row? The an
swer  Probably not. 
j Despite free agency, the Cowjoys have been able to keep their 
offense almost entirely intact: 
Troy Aikman at the helm, Emmitt 
Smith in the backfield, and Alvin 
larper and Michael Irvin at wide 
receiver. However, they lost line
backer Ken Norton Jr. to San 
Francisco. They have also lost 
depth along the defensive line so 
fceon Lett, Russell Maryland and 
Charles Haley are going to have 
to play a lot more. In addition, the 
lowboys lost their heart and soul, 
boach Jimmy Johnson.
Now I know there are some of
you out there saying: Come on, 
the Cowboys trounced the 
Steelers last week 26-9; how can 
he be saying this. However, the 
Steelers5 offense wont play as 
poorly as it did last week, every 
week (at least I hope it wont) and 
the Cowboys offense isnt going 
to play as well as it did last week 
every week. Aikman was throw
ing the ball to Irvin with Darren 
Woodson draped all over him and 
Irvin was still coming up with the 
ball. This isnt going to happen 
all year for the Cowboys.
Dont get me wrong, Im going 
to give the Cowboys the NFC East 
title, but come playoff time, the 
Cowboys will begin to realize their 
problems on defense, and it could 
be too late.
The rest of the NFC East is 
tricky. Second place could be a 
toss-up between the Giants and 
Cardinals. Both teams have a 
solid defense, but are lacking in 
offense. The Cardinals defense 
includes Clyde Simmons, Seth 
Joyner, Wilbur Marshall and big 
Eric Swann. However, Buddy 
Ryan has a tendency to neglect 
his offense, which could cost him 
a playoff spot. The Giants must
rely on a very young quarter
back, Dave Brown, to survive the 
season and take them to the play
offs. With Dan Reeves at coach 
anything could happen, but dont 
hold your breath. The Eagles 
could finish anywhere from sec
ond to fourth in the East. They 
will probably be fourth, but you 
never know. Randall Cunn
ingham is the upset artist, so 
expect plenty of upsets from the 
Eagles this year. In last place sit 
the Redskins. Washington has a 
good young quarterback in Heath 
Shuler, but not much to go with 
him. The Redskins are headed in 
the right direction, but dont ex
pect much this season.
The NFC Central will be (as 
usual) the wildest division ofthem 
all. No one ever seams to want to 
win this division. However, this 
year I think the Packers have the 
best chance. Sterling Sharpe will 
have a normal season (100 or so 
catches) and with Reggie White 
and Sean Jones on the defensive 
line, the Packers will have one 
heck of a pass rush. However, the 
Packers are still young and still 
dont have a running game, so the 
Super Bowl could be out of the
question.
The Lions will be quarterbacked by Scott Mitchell this sea
son and will once again have allpro Barry Sanders in the 
backfield. Also, the Lions have 
acquired wide receiver Anthony 
Carter. The Lions offense looks 
good, but their defense is still 
only average. Give the Lions eight 
or nine wins. The Vikings are 
expecting big things from War
ren Moon, but Im not too sure. 
First, Moon is used to Houstons 
run and shoot, second he is get
ting old, and third the Vikings 
are not able to protect him as well 
as Houston did. Expect a tough 
season for the Vikings. The Bears 
now have Erik Kramer at quar
terback, but not much else. The 
Bears always-solid defense will 
win them a few games, but the 
28th-rated offense from a year 
ago wont improve much. Finally 
the Buccaneers: Tampa Bay con
tinues to build without ever seem
ing to put together a winner. Dont 
expect anything different this 
year.
The San Francisco 49ers will 
win the NFC West decisively, with 
a good chance they will go to the
Super Bowl. On offense, the same 
old veterans return: Jerry Rice, 
Steve Young, John Taylor, with 
young Ricky Watters at running 
back. On defense, the 49ers now 
have Norton, Gary Plummer, Ri
chard Dent, Tim McDonald and 
1993 Rookie of the Year Dana 
Stubblefield. Barringinjuries, the 
49ers are the favorite to win it all.
The rest of the division doesnt 
look too promising. A long-time 
49er rival, the New Orleans 
Saints, has a new offense featur
ing Jim Everett and Michael 
Haynes, but the Saints have been 
losing their star linebackers one 
by one to free agency. The At
lanta Falcons have acquired quar
terback Jeff George and comerback D.J. Johnson, but they lost 
Haynes. The Los Angeles Rams 
picked up quarterback Chris 
Miller and will still have running 
back Jerome Bettis, but really 
not too much else.
John Webers Top Five 
Picks for Week 3
1. N.Y. Jets at Miami
The Jets are off to a decent 
start, and they seem to be able to
beat Miami when it counts. Ex
pect the Jets to get the victory. 
Jets 28-20.
2. Buffalo at Houston
Last year the Bills embarrassed 
the Oilers on Monday Night Foot
ball. This year, expect a closer 
score. Oilers 24-20.
3. Minnesota at Chicago
The Bears defense will punish 
the struggling Viking offense. 
Take the Bears in a squeaker. 
Bears 10-6.
4. L.A. Raiders at Denver
Both of these teams have very 
good offenses, but poor defenses. 
This could be one of the highest 
scoring games in history. Raiders 
49-36.
5. Green Bay at Philly
Last year the Packers lost to 
the Eagles early in the season, so 
the Packers are looking for re
venge. However, take the Eagles 
at home in a close one. Eagles 15-
13.
John Weber is a senior civil 
engineering major.
ADMINISTRATION
Intramural Director: Mike Mastlianni, x8-2214
Assistant Director: Mike Grzywinski, 
X8-2214; 683-2938 
President: Jim Saxon, x2-3872 
Intramural Secretary: Michelle Matta, 
Lx8-2053
IMPORTANT DATES
IMCo-Rec Volleyball begins: Tuesday, 
September 13
IM Tennis begins: Wednesday, Sep
tember 14 
Water Polo entries (we: Thursday, Sep
tember 1, 4:30, IM Office 
Chess entries due: Thursday, Septem
ber 1, 4:30, IM Office 
IM Board Meeting: Thursday, Sep
tember 20,4:30, Gym Conference Room
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Intramural Co-Rec Volleyball games 
will begin on Tuesday evening, Septem
ber 13. Games will take place Monday 
through Thursday evenings from 6:45-
9:45 in the main gym and small gym 
(when needed).
Teams should pick up their schedules 
in the IM Office Monday afternoon, Sep
tember 12.
TENNIS
The 1994 Intramural Tennis season 
will start on Wednesday evening, Sep
tember 14. Games will be played Mon
day through Thursday evenings from 
6:45-10:45. All teams are reminded to 
pick up team schedules by Tuesday, Sep
tember 13. Winning teams must turn in first games of the season, 
results to the IM Office the next day or Teams that were rained out on Tuesgames will be considered a double forfeit day, September 6, should call the IM 
loss. Office for make-up game times.
FOOTBALL
The 1994 Intramural Touch Football 
season started play last week with 51 
teams battling for the IM Champion
ship.
Starting next week, the Intramural 
Departments weekly football rankings 
will appear, as teams complete their
SOCCER OFFICIALS
Any interested in officiating Intramu
ral soccer games should call the IM Of
fice. There are a limited amount of these 
paying positions available.
SUBMITTED BY 
Michelle Z. Matta
Tk) of the most popular bundles on campus tnis year.
A distinctively fragrant assortment of wool, denim, rayon and poly-cotton biends.
Now you can really clean up when you buy a select Macintosh' Performa.' For 
a limited time, it comes bundled with a unique new student software set available only 
from Apple. Its all the software youre likely to need in college. Youll get software that 
takes you through every aspect of writing papers, the only personal organizer/calendar 
created for your student lifestyle and the Internet Companion to help you tap into on-line
research resources. Plus ClarisWorks, an intuitive, integrated package with a spreadsheet, 
word processor, database and more. Buy a select Performa with CD-ROM, and youll 
also get a multimedia library of essential reference tools. And now, with an Apple ^ 
Computer Loan, you can own a Macintosh for less than a dollar a A ^1  
day* Its the power every student needs. The power to be your best: r\UUIt! Wwthrough it.
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
Offer expires October 17,1994; amiable only ubile supplies last. 1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Performa aid 'The power lo be your best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc AppleDcsign is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. OarisWorh is a registered trademark of Claris Corporation. An 
estinmte based on an Apple Computer Loan of $1,549 15for be Performa 636, and f1,882.59for the Performa 636 with CD-ROM system shown uboiv. Prices and lean amounts are subject to change without notice. See your Apple Campus Reseller or representativefor current system prices. A 5-5% loan origination fee will be tulded to the ra/uestal loan 
amount. The interest rale is variable, based on the commentai paper rate plus 5-35% For the monlb ofAugust 1994, the interest rate w<is 10.10%, with an APR of 11.36%. 8-year loan term with no prepayment penalty. The monthly payment shown assumes no deferment ofprincipal or interest. Students may defer principal payments up to 4 years, or until
graduation. Deferment will change your monthly payments. The Apple Computer loan is subject to credit approval.

---------------------------------------------------

NO annual FEE,
nationwide ACCEPTANCE 
and LOW rates.
Because this is a ONCE in a lifetime trip.jy JAS OSNT GYE RED<sfcr REW
MEMBER itrna NETWORK 1994 Greenwood Trust Company, Member PDIC

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  12 September 199411
Volleyball wins first of season
gyANUJ GUPTA
1artan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon womens 
olleyball team has spent the last 
ew weeks warming up for their 
994 season.
They started the season in fine 
orm as well. Last Wednes[ay they faced local oppojent Point Park College, 
vhom they beat three 
rames to two. The Tartan 
ffomen won the first two 
ames, by scores of 16-14 
nd 15-12. They then lost 
he next two, both by 
cores of 8-15, and won 
he final game 15-12.
Standout performances 
f the day included the 
Kork turned in by freshlan Koshi Delany-Carell, 
unior Patty Bruno, senior 
i-captains Molly Brenian and Carolyn Skarada, 
nd senior Wendy Burton.
The Thursday previous to that, 
he Tartans opened their season
was far from disappointed, 
though, saying, In general, as 
our first match, everyone played 
well. It helped me identify what 
we need to work on. Hollands 
was also impressed by the teams 
effort from the start as she said, 
We have a history of starting
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor 
Senior Wendy Burton practices as sophomore 
Sarah Pacocha and coach Heather Hollands watch.
to a great start. We have a lot of 
enthusiasm and athletic people. 
The team will have eight people 
returning, plus three new fresh
men and one new sophomore. 
They also did not suffer many 
losses in terms of graduates only 
losing one senior.
Hollands is enthusias
tic about this years fresh
man class. She said, The 
new freshman class is 
very athletic and it fits in 
very well with what we 
are trying to accomplish. 
According to Hollands, 
the team is looking for an 
all-out effort from every
body. In order to survive 
the grueling tournament 
schedule, which includes 
the two UAA Conference 
tournaments (in the 
middle and end of the sea
son), everyone will have 
to contribute.
The Tartans will play 
their first UAA tournament at 
Emory University in Atlanta in
overcomes injury
UNBEATEN, from page 7
'defenders with a number of ex
cellent shots and breakaways. 
On one fast break,. Brazinski 
blew by the final W&J defender 
hut was grabbed from behind. 
The player from W&J was 
ejected, and CMU played the 
final few minutes of the game
with a one-man advantage, going 
on to win by a final score of 2-1.
Even though theycontrolled the 
ball for the majority ofthe game, 
the players were a little frus
trated with the lack of goals. We 
controlled the ball well, but the 
intensity wasn't what it should 
be, said Brazinski. We need to
turn it up another notch. 
Even with a number of key 
players hurt, the Tartans are 
continuing to improve. Were 
building game to game, said 
Brazinski. The Tartans should 
give Pitt quite a game when 
they travel down to Oakland 
this Wednesday evening.
slow in the match and play catch
up, but we came out strong that 
y losing to another local oppo- day. It showed a lot of character the middle ofthe season, and will 
ent, Carlow College, who de- on the players part. then finish the season with anated Carnegie Mellon by a three Hollands also appears very op- other UAA tournament in St.
ame to one margin. timistic about the rest ofthe sea- Louis, Missouri, at the campus of
Head coach Heather Hollands son. She stated, I think were off Washington University.
classified
IOBS
hoose from 3 different fundraisers 
sting either 3 or 7 days. No investlent. Earn $$$ for your group plus 
ersonal cash bonuses for yourself. Call 
.800-932-0528, Ext. 65
tented!! America's fastest growing 
avel company is now seeking individus to promote our super spring break 
ips to Jamaica, Cancn, Bahamas, 
orida, South Padre and Barbados, 
mtastic free travel benefits and the 
est commissions. Call Sun Splash 
jurs today for your free information 
acket. 1-800-426-7710
iring, "energetic" nanny for twin boys 
je 4. 35-40 hour week, Monday 
rough Friday, no evenings. Additional 
eekend hours available, not necessary, 
easant surroundings, Shadyside. 
pportunity for caring individual to play 
jnifigant role in toddlers lives. No 
:avy housework. Non-smoker. Own 
ansportation, with car. References, 
all evenings, 681 -3385
lub Leaders for Young Judaea, 
esponsible, creative, must like children, 
idaic background required. Sunday 
leetings. September-April employment. Salary plus expenses. Licensed. 
driver. Call Young Judaea Regional 
Office, 521-4877.
HOUSING
Shadyside- Luxury 2 Bedroom apt. 
located one block from Walnut St. Just 
completely renovated, gas fireplace, sun 
porch, all new aplliances including 
dishwasher+garbage disposal, central AC, 
laundry, entry interom. $895+ Call ES 
Mgnt 795-5845
Shadyside- Huge 2 bedroom apt. Over 
1,300 sq ft, dining room, pantry, den, 2 
decorative firplaces, central AC, all new 
applicances, windows & bathroom, 
intercom entry, laundry, hardwood floors 
throughout. 5850 call E.S. Mgnt 795- 
5845
Friendship-1 bedroom apt, gas fireplace, 
dishwasher, new windows, convenient 
to busway, laundry. S425+ Call E.S. 
Mngt 795-5845
Friendship- Large 2 bedroom plus den, 
equipped kitchen, convenient to busway. 
5495+ Call E.S. Mngt 795-5845
Test Yourself 
For The Most 
Interesting Work... 
In The World.
It's work that enables 
you to serve your country.
Play a role in 
history-making events.
Take on challenging 
responsibility.
Experience diverse cultures. 
Make a difference.
Represent U.S. interests abroad in the 
Foreign Service. Register by October 
1 4th for the Foreign Service Officer Written 
Exam offered worldwide on November 
19th. Pick up your application at the 
campus career center.
Register Now For 
The Foreign Service 
Officer Exam.
jAtNTqo
Classified Rates
1-20 words........55.00/wk
21-50 words......S8.00/wk
51-100 words....SlO.OO/wk
Classifieds must be paldincash 
or by check before the firstscheduled run date.
Otvcampus departments and 
organizations may pay by 
Joumaltransferwlthavalid 
account number.
Due by 5pmthe Thursday
TheTartan Business Office is 
looking for some studentsto 
helpsolkttadvertisementsin 
the local area. Workers wll be 
paid on commission. Ifyou are 
interested please callAndrew 
Sproule at TheTartan Office, 
x8-2111.
THETARTAN
268-2111
Mellon
College
of
Science
Deans 
List 
Springl994
The faculty and 
staff of the 
Mellon College 
of Science 
congratulate 
our students 
for their 
outstanding 
academic 
performances 
during the 
spring semester.
Biological
Sciences
Bhaumik, Apala 
Cerrone, Richelle 
Culp, Sandra 
Fox, Stephen 
Groetsch, Stefan 
Heinzer, Ann 
Jayakumar, Arun 
Keen, Jennifer 
Komenda, Lisa 
Lacenere, Christopher 
Levy, Jodi
Maneckshana, Bejon 
Mariano, Dean 
Myers, Cena 
Odell, Sean 
Park, Jung 
Pizzurro, Mark 
Rathbun, Kristen 
Shereck, Evan 
Singh, Amoolya 
Sokac, Anna 
Stabler, Stacy 
Stevenson, Todd 
Straud, Sarah 
Thompson, Barbara 
Vibhakar, Neel 
Wightman, Jenifer
Chemistry
Claus, Brian 
Ebcioglu, Zeynep 
Hackney, David 
Kukura, Stephanie 
Leychkis, Yan 
Neal, Everett 
Petruska, Melissa 
Rail, Christina 
Snyder, James 
Solilro, Matthew 
Urban, Jeffrey 
Zeiszler, Lee
Mathematics
Ambrose, David 
Capsambelis, Mark 
Checker, Stephen 
Cushman, Matthew 
Hsu, Katy 
Myers, Daniel 
Ng, Chie
Physics
Anna, Shelley 
Blecksmith, Sarah 
Humensky, T. Brian 
Kersting, Nicholas 
Miller, Kurt 
Ng, Fong Lui 
Shevach, Seth 
Smith, Benjamin 
Soha, Aron 
Tableman, Adam 
Tanaka, Clifford 
Williams, David
 WordPerfect
I
Quattro^5BtaDeaL
WordPerfect B.0 DOS and Dictionary
The most powerful DOS 
application ever!
Wxdftffei
SPECIAL LIMITED-TIME 
OFFER: WordPerfect 6.0 for 
Windows, Quattro Pro 5.0 for 
Windows, and Random House 
Websters Electronic Dictionary 
and Thesaurus, College Edition.
See your local campus reseller for 
more information.
ms49
Wonftrfect Presentations Z.0 tor Windows or DOS
The ultimate tool for graph
ics and presentations!
it nn Mackitosti Student" WSIH Essentialswpmucj.o.
electmnic dictionary, 
golf gante, and more!
SHLOTILNIoA is 3 registered trademark ol Novell, Ina All other brand or product names are registered trademarks ol their respective companies.  19 Novell. Inc.1 WordPerfect
Novell Applications Group

---------------------------------------------------

a hip/hapening litfra
magazi
Uniike leading brands, new 
Dossier ets you wom|t
give yoBr litera^ 
look of their own
Don't sMISfnose creative 
masterpieces. Send us your 
poems, Iprose, or short 
fiction today and Dossier 
will have your work in print 
tomorrow!
Order a 
largew IIP" Crunchy 
k Thin Crust Pizza 
H with 2 toppings at 
If regular price and 
S get a medium 
1-topping pizza,
MRUS EXPRESS 
ACCEPTED!
CALL US! 681-1700 315 N. CRAIG STREET 
HOURS: 11AM-2AM SUN-THURS 11AM-3AM FRI-SATSend copy via email to Ih2w
KKtor drop it off at the Taipn,ONE LARGE 
ONE TOPPING 
PIZZA 
AND 4 COKES
$11.99
Super Sub Deal! 
Choose Any 2
Pilly Cheesesteak 
Zesty Italian 
Ham & Cheese 
Turkey & Cheese 
Meatball & Cheese 
Bacon Club 
Vegetarian
expires 10/16/94
in the Dossier Editors
mailbox
expires 10/16/94
Coupon not valid wttti any other offer. 
Offer valid with coupon only. Valid at partici
pating stores only. Prices may vary. Cus
tomer pays sales tax whsre applicable. Our 
drivers carry less than $20.00. Cash value 
1/20. 1994 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
Coupon not valid with any other offer.
Offer valid with coupon only. Valid at partici
pating stores only. Prices may vary. Cus
tomer pays sales tax where applicable. Our 
drivers carry less than $20.00. Cash value 
1/20. 1994 Domino's Pizza, Inc.Deadline for si
01994 DOMINO S PIZZA. INC. UMITED TIME ONLY. OFFER MAY VARY. PARTICIPATING STORES ONLY. PURCHASE REQUIRED.

---------------------------------------------------

T TT TT% T r\ESQDKaiaip spasa
L1V111VJ
The Tartan Cannes; Weflon U-iversiti.
Fair offers entertainment, opportunities
y NATALIE WOCHELE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
. It dawned on me as I approached the green 
,jawn that there was a familiarity among the 
all, lively crowd that grouped themselves 
ibout the tent. It wasnt the commotion of 
iew faces that one experienced during orienition weekj/instead there was very little 
lovement..
The only people to be seen were a few 
tadents svho, like myself, drew themselves 
iround the desks to gather information about 
he fifteen participating organizations at the 
Community Service Fair, held Thursday, Sepember 8.
When Martin Luther King, Jr. said everyine can be great because everyone can serve, 
ie touched on the idea that community serrice is one ideal that not only improves the 
ives of others, but changes your own life as 
yell.
Different organizations set up tables in the 
nt on the mall. The goal of each organiza
tion present was to recruit people to serve 
and to reach out to the local community.
As Mary Francis McLaughlin, Program Asistant for Community Service, said, There 
is not really one set program that people 
belong to to do service. They join different 
organizations, like S.E.A.C., Best Buddies, 
id other organizations off campus. It is kind 
if an individual thing... a conglomeration of 
different programs.
Hai-Son Nguyen, the 1994 National Youth 
Service award winner, said, My first two 
years here at CMU, I found myself only tak. ing, and being depressed about my selfish less. It was not until I started working with 
e East End Tutoring Program that I started 
feel a sense of belonging, that there are 
ithers that feel as I do.
Nguyen is not the only student who has 
found a sense of belonging;" other students 
ike Sheila Woodard and Natalie Lee have 
[one services before and have found it to be a 
experience. They emphasize the idea 
that some people arent given the same 
chances of life that has been granted to many 
MU students.
Even the live band booked to perform at the 
air prior to the International Festival, 
'loughmans Lunch, has been doing benefit 
ihows throughout thecountry and other parts 
[of the world.
Playing their Celtic music, and living ac:ording to their name, meaning down-toearth, the bands lead singer Karl Mullen 
said that community service shouldnt be 
recommended, it should be part of the curf. riculum.
Many people would have disagreed with 
this philosophy, because the idea of commu
nity service is not to force people to volunteer. 
Those who are truly interested in giving back 
to the community would probably not be
1 ^pleased with having to deal with those who 
are only giving of their time to fill a certain 
number of credits in order to graduate. Still, 
Mullen said, It is surely the function of the 
University. The University function is to be a
community service.
Ploughmans Lunchs lead singer contin
ues to reinforce that he believes that artists, 
musicians, and individuals in general should 
be involved in services, stressing the role 
artists should play.
I have always striven with music and 
visual arts to be part of the community 
because it provides us with a living and with 
an audience, he said.
One of the organizations represented at 
the fair, Habitat for Humanity, was founded 
in 1976 by Linda Millard Fuller. Its main 
objective is to eliminate poverty housing 
from the world by making decent shelters. 
Poorvi Shah, a first year student at CMU, 
who participated in Habitat during Reach 
Out day, said The experience gave me a 
chance to help a family in a way that wouldnt 
be possible had it not been for Habitat.
Another growing organization is the Stu
dent Environmental Action Coalition 
(S.E.A.C.). It was founded three years ago, 
but is not yet a very popular program due to 
problems with leadership and organiza
tion, said senior Maurice Badges.
Even though it has its problems, S.E.A.C. 
has participated in local events such as 
WTI, Schenley Park Clean Up, recycling 
program and national events like the tele
scope project in Arizona which happened to 
be on the sacred land of the Apache tribe.
S.E.A.C. also lobbies Congress in efforts to 
maintain those programs that help pre
serve the environment.
Both of these organizations, as well as the 
others mentioned above, havei many inter
esting projects with which students can 
become involved.
Student awamess about possible involve
ment in services has been enhanced by 
Alpha Phi Omega. APhiO has been geared 
towardsleadership, friendship, andfor years 
on this campus.
As William Frank, A Phi 0 pledge master, 
said, In general, we do a lot of projects 
through the community, getting people in
volved in community service. I would have 
never been involved in community service 
type things, had I not joined A Phi 0.
As a broad and varied program, these 
services enable the community to virtually 
reach out to itself.
The vast amount of organizations 
eminating from both on and off-campus 
aimed toward helping create the lattice 
based on virtue that we ought to aim toward 
as a society.
As Mother Teresa said, Love cannot re
main by itself  it has no meaning. Love 
has to be put into action and that action is 
service.
As love would have no meaning without 
action, action has no meaning without love. 
These two aspects, action and love, lie hand 
in hand, and allow for both the satisfaction 
and the justification of becoming involved 
in anything aimed toward helping society.
Community services are a prime way to 
express love through action, and help avoid 
indifference in society at the same time.
Students and organ
izations gather(left) 
at the Community 
Services Fair as 
people focus a little 
bit on giving back to 
the community.
Dale Newfleld (right) 
sports a sandwich 
poster In an attempt to 
attract people to the 
fair
Angela Kline, Autumn 
Phillips, and Andrew 
Hay- den volunteer 
their help to Habitat 
for Humanity.
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor
Greek community makes preparations for week of rush
By DEENA NEWSOM
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Well, its rush time once again, a time 
during the semester for fraternities and 
sororities to open their doors to prospective new members and allow them to 
sample Greek life firsthand. Although 
rush is a well-publicized event, few 
people outside of the Greek system re
ally understand how it works.
Sorority rush began Wednesday, Sep
tember 7, with Round Robin, an event at 
which the rushees meet their rush coun
selors, representatives from each soror
ity who advise and encourage the rush
ees throughoutthe process. These coun
selors must keep their house affiliation 
I anonymous until after the rush events,
! held in accordance with the National 
, Panhellenic Conference Regulations, 
have been completed. The Round Robin 
was followed by four days of sorority 
parties, organized in the spirit of mutual 
selection. The houses began to select 
those rushees to whom they would offer
bids, or a formal invitation to pledge, 
and the rushees began to select the house 
with which they most identified. Soror
ity rush ended this past Sunday with the 
distribution of bids and receptions held 
at each house for the sisters and bid 
recipients.
With sorority rush completed, the at
tention is now focused on the fraterni
ties. Fraternity rush officially begins on 
Monday, September 12, and will run 
through September 23. During this time, 
in accordance with the rush regulations 
of each houses chapter and the Interfratemity Council at CMU, no alcohol will 
be served at rush events. Houses can 
hold events every night of the week if 
they so choose. The specific events held 
at each house vary, and can include free 
dinners, watching football games or 
movies, and other social events. These 
events are designed to allow the rushees 
and brothers of each house to get to 
know one another. Each house has a 
rush chair and a rush committee who 
will ultimately bear the responsibility of
handing out bids. The 
identity of the brothers 
that hold such positions are 
kept anonymous, however, 
until the rush process is 
complete.
Bids for the fraternities 
will be passed out by Sep
tember 21, and a dinner for 
the brothers and bid re
cipients will be held that 
night at each house. This 
will then be followed by a 
Hands Off Day, during 
which the brothers of a fra
ternity may not initiate con
tact with the bidees, in or
der to allow them time to 
make an uninfluenced de
cision as to which house 
they will pledge. The final 
rush event, Pledge Night, 
will be held on September 
23. On Pledge Night, bidees 
will formally accept the bid 
Please see RUSH, page L2Sigma Alpha Epsilon built a volcano for their final pre-rush party
. ... . ._____DIULURIUWIIUI I

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  12 September 1994
Dorm veteran lends recipes to students Yard lives on in
Morewood dorm
Old Man Donner
by Jason Roth
Welcome back to Old Man 
Donners Kitchen. I hear that 
many of you enjoyed last weeks 
column and, well, gosh  I 
couldnt be more flattered.
But I did some checking around, 
and I still saw people in High
lander (through the windows, of 
course)obviously I havent done 
enough. So here are some more 
recipes, from simple to complex, 
but always delicious.
Fried Shredded Potatoes 
or Hash Browns
Microwaved Baked Potato (see 
last weeks column; or, get re
prints for only $5 each)
Optional: cheese, parsley, onions, etc.
Not Optional: pepper
This is another simple but vi
tal (and fast) one. Take your 
MBP (see above; Im going for 
that hip, KFC, JFK, NBK feel 
here) and slice it in half; combine 
it with a medium grater (a very 
important, very cheap tool) until 
you have a pile of shredded po
tato and two skins.
Heres where the options come 
in: mix whatever you like in with 
the pile. The list above should 
get you started, but its really up 
to you. Personally, I like at the 
least parsley and parmesan.
Once youre all mixed up, throw 
the pile into the flying pany ouve 
already heated (med-hi, maybe a 
little more) with butter or oil (I 
sure hope you guys read through 
at least once before you cook; you 
can trust my food, but never trust 
my sentence order).
Use a spatula (more vital than 
the grater) to flatten the pile into 
a patty, or just keep it loose with 
constant stirring and flipping.
Now you play with the skins 
(remember the skins?).
Obviously you can just fly 'em 
up, but its so much yummier to 
put lots of cheese (especially Ched
dar) on top and fry until it melts
 crunchy-good!
By now you should have flipped 
the pile-cum-patty, depending on 
whether you prefer golden-brown 
or extra crunchy. This makes a 
great breakfast (ham & eggs, any
one?), lunch or dinner; try top
ping with apple sauce or sour 
cream.
Now wasnt that simple? Sure 
it was  it just takes me 300 
words to write simple. The next 
ones even more basic, but won
derful :
Open-Faced Grilled 
Cheese
What, so now this jerk thinks 
we cant even make a bloody 
grilled cheese sandwich!? Well, 
not so fast, Pecos  you havent 
tried this yet.
Two thick slices of bread 
(Italians best)
Cheddar, or provolone/mozza
rella
sliced tomato, parmesan 
oregano, basil.
This one works best in a toaster 
oven (the most important secret
 and itd better be secret  of 
surviving four years in Donner), 
but a broiler on an oven would 
also work.
First toast the bread lightly; 
while this is happening, slice your 
main cheese of choice thickly, and 
put it on the bread once its 
toasted. Put this in the oven on 
broil; when it begins to melt, add 
the parm. and spices (pepper goes 
without saying at this point; Ill 
tell you if a recipe doesnt involve 
pepper).
Now let it continue until the 
cheese starts bubbling  then 
its done, and ready to be topped 
with that icy-cool slice of tomato.
An excellent study snack. In 
absence of tomato, Ive substi
tuted onion, and a big slice o 
Vidalia would rock. As always, 
play around. And sorry if I was a 
little defensive back thereyou 
know how cooks get.
Now that this column has 
seemed to garner nothing but 
praise from the general public. I 
guess it will continue as a new 
institution on campus (not un
like Skibo).
So look forward to the forward 
to the following in upcoming 
weeks: 1) basic cooking tools, 2) 
how to throw a feast for 15 of your 
closest friends, and 3) as always, 
more potatoes.
Jason Roth has vowed never to 
return to Donner Hall.
By SHANNON GTBNEY
Tartan Staffwriter
Chocolate 
death cake is back, 
and so is Scotland 
yard, said Stu
dent Body Presi
dent Declan McCullagh. For bet
ter or for worse, 
the restaurant is 
slated to open on 
October 10 in the 
Morewood rec 
room. This an
nouncement has 
elicited both en
thusiasm and con
cern among mem
bers of the campus 
community. Many 
students and fac
ulty members are 
eagerly anticipating the return 
of the popular caf. However, oth
ers are concerned that the condi
tions and qualities which defined 
the eatery cannot be retained in 
Scotland Yards new home.
Scotland Yard was created in 
1986 by a group of students who 
recognized the need for a non
alcoholic pub on campus. It is 
alternative dining service, one 
that offers music, poetry, and
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photograph 
The former Morewood rec room will now serve as 
Scotland Yard and the faculty dining room.
mood in addition to a distinctive 
menu. Lisa Zamperini, 
alumna, was the manager of the 
caf until Dining Services took 
over last year.
Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy said that the 
new Scotland Yard will be a 
Fligl gll ht427 iol es
Lack of women at CMU causes problems for both sexes
By LAURA McCLUKE
Tartan Contributing Editor 
and ALLTE KING
Tartan Asst. Features Co-Editor
With some dorm halls consisting of 26 
men and three women, any resident can 
see first hand how the ratio affects stu
dents personal lives, academic paths  
and ultimately  career goals. Because 
the three are inextricably bound, how a 
student interacts within his academic 
community is directly linked to how well 
he does academically. For a campus that 
is 70% male, there are definitely conse
quences.
Such a skewed ratio literally has an 
impact on the quality of life at CMU,
says senior mechanical engineering ma
jor Nick Narisaranukul. First year stu
dents  both men and women  must 
adjust to a ratio possibly very different 
from their high school environment. 
Dating becomes more difficult. Women 
find they have fewer same-sex friends. 
And what about classes?
When a student at Carnegie Mellon 
declares his major, he decides on more 
than a field of study. He declares himself 
to be a part of that departments unwrit
ten culture  one that includes outside 
interests, sleep patterns, and even dress. 
True, these may be trivial details, but 
they form the tip of a much larger ice
berg: what if you are inherently not a 
part of that culture? For example, what
if youre a woman in the overwhelmingly 
male Computer Science department? 
Says Shari Morgan, senior ChemE, I
diwn Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
know women who started in the CS/ 
math department and later dropped out 
because they felt intimidated. Similar
sentiments were expressed by many of 
the women we spoke with. Senior chemi
cal Engineering major Shukti Ghosh 
said that she sometimes felt uncomfort
able in her classes, and that shed defi
nitely rather have more women in the 
department. Still, there is support out
side of the classroom for women in s 
technical major facing similar challenges 
of being a woman in a technical field 
The sorority system also offers a tradi
tionally strong support network for 
women.
Not that everyone needs that. My 
friends are mostly guys anyway, s 
senior psychology major Colleen 
Sherman, a persons sex doesnt matFligl gll 4t".7 Ciol ms
Fraternity rush to finish next week
fraternity will help me find 
my own clique. Bradley Zim
merman, a freshman art ma
jor says, When I first came up 
here, rushing was not on my 
mind. I had too many miscon
ceptions about Animal House 
and the whole Neanderthal 
conception. When I started
RUSH, from page LI
given to them by a fraternity.
The time spent as a pledge is 
used to learn about the 
fraternitys traditions and the 
Greek system. It is also a pre
requisite work towards becom
ing an active member of their 
chosen house.
So, why do people 
rush? Considering 
the heavy workload 
and number of re
sponsibilities that 
dominate the life of 
the average Carn
egie Mellon student, 
you might wonder 
how they could find 
time to pursue Greek 
life. However, a 
number of students Jack80n Tam/Tartan Photographer
feel that becoming Greg Gordon prepaers for Delta Upsllon's 
an active member in last big party before rush 
the Greek commu
nity could be as rewarding as it 
might be demanding.
We spoke to a few rushees to 
find out just why they are par
ticipating in rush at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Due to the shortage of female 
students on campus, many of 
the women who are rushing 
look to the sororities as places 
where they can interact with 
other women.
Sharon Bansal, a sophomore, 
participated in rush last week. 
She chose to rush because, It 
sounded like it was a lot of fun, 
as well as a great chance to 
meet other women.
Dana Heath, a freshman, 
said, I want to meet other 
women. CMU lacks women in 
too many areas.
So what about the male point 
of view? Arthur Wojnarowski, 
a sophomore, is rushing simply
hanging out at [a house] 
though, I saw they were just a 
bunch of guys into hanging 
out and having a good time.
From the outside, rush can 
seem like a complex system 
shrouded in the traditional se
crecy of the Greek community. 
In fact, this is not the case at 
all.
It is a time for breaking down 
the same stereotypes and mis
conceptions that might pre
vent someone from giving 
Greek life a chance.
Approximately 90 women 
participated in sorority rush 
last week, and several men 
already plan to partake in the 
fraternity rush events in these 
weeks to come.
Whatever the reason, 
whether it be free food or a 
need to find their niche, 
Carnegie Mellon students of 
all kinds have found some-to give the Greek system a try.
I never have had a set group of thing that piques their inter
friends. In a way, joining a est in rush.
Salomon Brothers___________
Quantitative Research Analyst
Salomon Brothers is an international investment banking firm that makes 
markets in securities and provides a broad range of underwriting, financial 
advisory and research services to governments, corporations, and institutional 
investors.______________________________________________________________\
The BOND PORTFOLIO and EQUITY PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS GROUPS work with Sales, 
Trading and Investment Banking to help Salomon Brothers' clients quantify and implement investment, 
capital raising, hedging, and asset allocation strategies. This work includes the development of new 
theoretical models for securities valuation, statistical analysis of data, and the development of 
customized client presentations.
Quantitative Analysts often act as generalists for up to two. years, after which they specialize in one or 
more of the following areas:
 Modeling financial products such as mortgage-backed securities and options
 Portfolio structuring and/or asset allocation
 Analysis integrated with Sales, Trading, or Investment Banking activities
 Analysis of stock and bond market returns and yields
 Analytical systems development.
Qualified candidates will have a B.S. in a quantitative field such as Computer Science, Engineering, 
Finance, Mathematics, Operations Research, or Statistics. Good analytical and computer skills 
(C/Unix preferable) are required. Because so much of the analyst's work involves direct interaction 
with the Firm's clients, strong interpersonal, writing and speaking skills are also important. While a 
background in finance or economics is helpful, we believe that an analyst with exceptionally strong 
quantitative skills can come to a deep understanding of the financial markets.
Training for quantitative analysts includes:
 An introduction to securities analytics
 A period of internship in different quantitative groups
 Immediate hands-on training with professionals working on various projects
 Licensing with the securities industry regulators
 Additional technical training as needed to handle newly assigned tasks.
The Quantitative Research Department will be interviewing 
on Campus November 10,1994
Resumes should be submitted to:
Joan Dolph 
Salomon Brothers 
Research Department 
Seven World Trade Center, 37th Floor 
New York, NY 10048 
Fax # (212) 783-4615/4616

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  12 September 1994L3
Scotland Yard in Morewood gets 
mixed reviews from students
YARD, from page 12
scaled down version of the old 
[Scotland Yard ... It will be a lim
ited menu... It will serve mostly 
coffee and pastries, but itll be a 
nice place to gather in the
Services), Nial Benstock (Direc
tor of Business Services), Kevin 
Lamb (Director of Planning and 
Budget), and the members of SDC 
(Student Dormitory Council) got 
together and came up with a
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer 
The new location for Scotland Yard will be in the old Morewood rec room. Some 
students have expressed concern that the Yard's ambience will be lost.
evening.
Murphy explained that the caf 
will accommodate only 50, due to 
the spatial constraints of the 
. Morewood rec room. This seat
ing difference will certainly be 
felt, as Scotland Yard enjoyed a 
.capacity of 100 in its previous 
location in Skibo.
In addition, the Morewood rec 
room will become the faculty din
ing room by day, Scotland Yard 
, by night. Its hours are not official 
.yet, but are tentatively sched,uled as 5 pm to 12:30 am. Scot. land Yard will take DineXpress.
. When [Skibo] was coming 
down, we really anticipated Scot
land Yard being on hiatus for two 
years ... the staff there was fully 
prepared... but Declan McCullaugh (Student Body President), 
Rodger Heydt (Director of Dining
plan, said Murphy.
In many students eyes, this 
plan does not seem to be very 
effective. Senior Lisa Morales, a 
former Scotland, Yard employee 
said,
I dont think theres going to 
be enough room, or that its gonna 
have the same ambiance. Its not 
going to have the bar section or 
the gazebos. Its just going to be a 
glorified cafeteria.
I think its an inconvenience to 
the students. Morewood rec room 
cant possibly hold the same num
ber of people, and its just not the 
same feel as before,  said Gerald 
Simmons, a sophomore H&SS 
student. Other students voiced 
similar fears about the pubs de
centralized location, and small 
seating capacity.
However, other students were
both surprised and pleased to 
hear that the restaurant would 
be reopening.
Its good that it exists period, 
said Leslie Clague, a sophomore 
Art major, All the art students 
want Scot
land Yard to 
be open be
cause were 
always here 
(on campus) 
working late, 
and we like 
hot food.
I would 
like it (to re
open) be
cause its a 
nice place to 
go if you want 
to go some
where thats 
sorta like a 
restaurant 
but not as ex
pensive. And 
its on cam
pus, said 
Jessica 
Render, a 
sophomore 
BHA stu
dent.
Rodger 
Heydt, Di
rector of Dining Services, views 
Scotland Yard as an interesting 
problem.
Heydt said that the main issue 
is defining what type of dining
services the campus community 
wants.
Scotland Yard was successful 
because of the menu, student ser
vices, decor, program... Its not a 
question of can we capture this? 
Its a question ofat what cost? I 
really view the dining rooms as a 
student space.
Heydt said that the space for 
Scotland Yard should be made 
available, so that the dining ser
vices can evaluate whether or not 
people will accept it.
I want to be sure we under
stand what the students want 
before we identify a solution, he 
said.
Once we know the students 
requirements we can design the 
space and the facility to meet 
them ...We want people to tell us 
what they want without saying 
Scotland Yard, because Scotland 
Yard is a solution.
In other words, Heydt urges 
students to describe the qualities 
that will create the dining expe
rience they desire, rather than 
merely state that they want a 
space entitled Scotland Yard. 
Students can offer feedback 
about Scotland Yard, or any other 
campus dining services by join
ing focus groups, participating in 
surveys, and filling out comment 
cards at various eateries.
In addition, an assocs.- 
scotlandyard bboard is being cre
ated, and Heydt encourages stu
dents to write him at rh7b.
GAME POWER
nwaybvaelwef
We buy, sell, 
and trade 
video games.
WEST COAST VIDEO
1900 Murray Ave. Squirrel Hill
422-9211
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK. 10AM-MIDNIGHT
RENT 1, GET 
1 FREE.
Rent any video game at regular 
price and receive a second 
rental of equal or lesser value 
free. Proper ID. Cannot combine 
specials. Squirrel Hill Store only.
Healthy Males Wanted for
Semen Donor Program at
Magee Womens 
Hospital
 screening required
 fee paid for donor 
specimens
 if interested please 
call 641-1174 after 
5 pm only
1994 Fall Triathlon
September 18,9:00 am
SWIM  1 /4 mile - 500 yds. 
BIKE  10 miles 
RUN  3.1 miles
Prizes in Categories All-Male, All-Female, and Co-Ed Teams and 
Individual Categories
Applications available from the athletic de
partment & the Student Info Desk 
Deadline September 13
Funded by the Student Activities Fee and Athletics
Ratio skewed towards men
RATIO, from page L2
ter. Morgan agrees. Its al
most a big brother/little sister 
relationship, she says.
Of the students we spoke 
with, most felt that the ratio 
was due at least in part to 
Carnegie Mellons image as a 
highly competetive university. 
Although the male/female ra
tio approaches 50/50 in the 
college of Humanities and So
cial Sciences, as well as in the 
College of Fine Arts, potential 
first-year students may be in
timidated by a near 80/20 ra
tio in some technical majors. 
There just arent that many 
women applying into Com
puter Scienc-anywhere.
In an overview of the ratios 
at universities across the coun
try, there is a pattern of large 
gaps in the male/female popu
lations, seemingly typical to 
universities and colleges 
known as technical institu
tions.
According to data from 1989, 
CMUs largely unbalanced 
male/female ratio of 68/32 per
cent was comparable only to 
M.I.T., CalTech, andCase West
ern Reserve; all of which are 
technically centered institu
tions.
The only school with a ratio of 
men to women more extreme 
than Carnegie Mellons was Cal 
Tech which had an 84 to 16 
percent male to female ratio.
If university life is a micro
cosm of society, which it should 
be, the ratios at schools like 
CMU subtly hint at something 
which brews perhaps viciously 
at the base of our society.
Perhaps the question to be 
asked is not only how we feel 
about the ratio, but how we feel 
about this seemingly innate ten
dency for such imbalances to 
occur in universities like CMU. 
The problem does not only lie in 
the results, but in the cause of 
an unequal environment.
INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD 
BUTLER UNIVERSITY
UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN
AUSTRALIA 
NEW ZEALAND
Fully integrated study at 
New Zealand and Australian universities 
FALL OR SPRING SEMESTER  FULL YEAR 
 INTERNSHIPS
Study Abroad Information Session
Representatives:
Date:
Location:
Nick Hanson 
Faith Salter 
Tues. Sept. 13 
4:00 pm 
Student Center 
Room 205
For further information please contact: your study 
abroad office on campus or the Institute for Study 
Abroad, Butler University, 4600 Sunset Avenue, 
Indiananpolis, IN 46208, Tel: 317/283-9336 or 
1/800-368-6852 Ext. 9336.
Get your teams and mark your calendars! Don't 
Have a Team? We'll try and mate you! 
Call 268-8140
J

---------------------------------------------------

THESE CMU STUDENTS ARE SPENDING A SEMESTER OR MORE 
ABROAD....
NAMEMAJORYEARLOCATION
Kate AbergerBiologyJRGermany
Teresa AbernathyChemistryJRSwitzerland
Brandy AuldArtSRItaly
Talivaldis BauerCivil EngineeringJRSwitzerland
Amber BenezraEnglishJRIreland
David BennettEconomics/GermanSRAustria
Carisa BlackArtJRItaly
Michael CarnevaleDesignSRItaly
Andre DelpreeChemical EngineeringJRSwitzerland
John DoanCivil Engineering/EPPJRSwitzerland
Jodi FinkelDramaSRIsrael
Jeffrey FinnMath/CSJRAustralia
Eduardo GarzaIMJRGermany
Liz GoodenoughPolitical Science/FrenchJRFrance
Carole HaggertyHistoryJRIreland
Andrea HarleyBHA-ArtJRItaly
Ellen HasenkampChemical Engineering/EPPJRSwitzerland
Leonard HuntArtSRItaly
Jenny HwangHistoryJRRussia
Su Jin KimChemistryJRKorea
Jan KlingelinbergIMJREngland
Karen KnepperArchitectureSRSwitzerland
Javier KohnMechanical EngineeringSRMexico
Wes KrsulCivil EngineeringSRMexico
Kenneth LambertECESRGermany
Eytan LeviIMJREngland
Irene LoArt/European StudiesJRFrance
Sindu MaliakalArchitectureSRIndia
Larry MathersChemical EngineeringSRMexico
John MatoneyChemical Engineering/EPPSRMexico
Paul McElweeArchitectureSREngland
Geoffrey MeierArchitectureSRDenmark
Syaraff MohseinIMSOWorldwide
Andrew J. Nau IIIArtJRGermany
Kimberly NolanPsychologyJRAustralia
Toshi OkiArchitectureSRItaly
Amy OlasinArchitecture/FrenchSRSwitzerland
Michael ParrisArchitectureSRScotland
Ostap RudakevychArchitectureSREngland
James SaisakornArchitectureSRSwitzerland
Ramy ShahinUndeclaredJREngland
Debra TomsonArtSRThe Netherlands
Raymond TsengECEJRT aiwan
Youssef TumaECEJRFrance
Jennifer UrsoArtJRAustralia
Robert WeissArtSRItaly
Michi YanagashitaArchitectureSRScotland
Wenche YangArchitectureSRItaly
Elizabeth ZambelliArtJRFinland
Jennifer ZieserlDesignSRSwitzerland
SO CAN YOU!! Start planning for your semester or year abroad. 
Call for an appointment with the interim study abroad advisor, Eva Mergner, X8-4969. The Office of 
International Education is now located in 219 Warner Hall. For additional information, check our 
bboard academic.abroad.official for up-to-date news on programs and deadlines.

---------------------------------------------------

Calvin and Hobbes
tl.CMMIH.' AREHT tX) feCITED 5tl. CMIHC . C'AMMR ? LOOK AT Ml TUBE BEAT SCHOOL SUPPLIES I got.' I UWE HAWS NEW HItSSS ANO STOFF/
(4L 5t Gor To SM iS m'RE HOT MAMS l \m ANS FOREIGN LANGUAGES.' IF ENGUSW Is SX ENCUGU FOR l. TUEH S( GCUX ITS GOC EJO0A FcR TOE REST OF THE WBIO!^ y
ipi^Timfir^- -RS*
EVEWoUE SUOULD SPEAK ENGSU OR JUST 5UUT UP,mrs. mr / hei n
vest aio byfgsd 
icw LEAD THE 
CLASS THE 
PLEDGE OF 
^LLEGIANCE?
WUtf DID THE SUPREME COURT DECIDE ABOUT mT? IS TU\S A PRA1ER? ET UAVETfc READ WE MH RIGUTS ? I DOUT KEEP VIP V\\TU MS STUFF -' HA JUST MUD'
I'M ONU WERE BECAUSE MX PARENTS MAKE ME <00 / I DONT YlfrNT TO BE A TESY CASE.'  DONT EVEN KNOW VMM CORt DISTRICT IM IN.' CAU- ON SOMEONE ELSE.
Whats a Wendell?by Matt Goldberg
/ArtWJetiieiY"X'
by Bill Watterson
The Adventures ofJobMan in the 200th Decade *i Christopher P. Nelson
Hey, Sam! How do you spell stupendous?
...WVo^R
COM!. c& II
ike Ar-l Co - 
Editor at 
V0-2UI Sooi||M
LIE |K 
HEUmPORTAWTUESTIOWJfcBOUTCKRTOOHING
ey wiuu
p1? terr
GCoesiihj G
f 30 W <=ET PA1cT\ 
( Money TO DRAW C 
\&JfOW\ES?? J
RASHL OO LOT INonwa y ME AS A SUWtOy J
\ ALL THE _____b
\T
Xtl. tOHyA
VOtJNiES??/
)EMfAe DeD?fL 
OF THE WOe.Lt?
I ?OK guwioies??/
"4


if
!
LL
uu
rr
rr
hr
UHrtj-.SuiE. 
HPtP oN,T'/J 
B. RIGHT 
BACKI !
.

cb*
'
I
j;rr
oLL
'C_wS>9"Tm
i

---------------------------------------------------

HJMSeyou ThniMi Uith TAe.SWdr'&lESJacftsoh Tam
>
vHRv eRl vHf 
LAST'FloWfR! Hte eHRvb:: 1 Do 7
CRASHLLOTINT onLwaL
IS BARNEY BULLETPROOF?
ARE AHV REAL ANIMALS HARMEf 
To HAKF SPAM? P PET ROCKJ 
THINK7 PoES 'T REAUyTAKE 
3 0/Tf5 To GfT To CFMTfR 
iFA WrVfMU P*P? Pofs 
hr Potato HFAP ha mul-t.- 
peroM alitv' J|
plfNUPO GoMe FKy o
&ooo? ARE' /ou #
6CTT/N& P/ZZY? it I
WHAT RFf dOT 
STftRllJt 
Rvr
YeP 
NOPE
I lus
UBK
l,cuuu
CRASHL OT INon A 
dimmer
/H?YI WHAT WAS THAT FoR?
1 ^---------ry~r~=r:
// SoVA\ ._______X 1 THOUGHT
TARTAN-CROSS
By JEFFE BOATS _________
THOUGHTi 
<) YoU WERE 
(_50MFONE ELSE '
QUICK I I WHITf HOUSE 
INVITATION
Fl WITH IT SHP 
THINKS You'Re 
A GEEK. BY'
AW^H J ybb
V-I^^vee/*
Qy-^'hg/f
{ANorHE^floUM!
t:aFnSa drif H/un Yt'm
Laddergrams
by Mark Kantrowitz
.in a laddergram, the object 
 is to transform the word 
on the top rung Into the 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
the other letters. For 
example, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
three steps: LEAD, LOAD, 
GOAD, GOLD.
Copyright 0 1994 
by Mark Kantrowitz. 
All rights reserved.
Doonesbury
TUB KJPS WHO HAVE TO TAKE 
THEM FEEL. STIGMATIZED. TH5 
RBMEPfAL LABEL MAKES THEM 
FEEL BAP ABOUT THEMSELVES...
V
A dit donalaUnS AI dl rcveg :Psni2l NmP2 DAnN:cgvrNc:MD 
rcv:tlty :l2lgAieln,vtmb Ic: 
JhWw-OJb BHGOR 1JCHwJ emjw 
101. ANPENGUSH101THEN BE -
YES, CAMPBELL. 
PEANRUMPLEMEYER 
WAS JUSTINHERE. SHEHJAMTS TOPESTI6MATIZETHBREMEPIAL COURSES BY CALLING THEM "INTRO 
WEIL, SIR, THEY PRACTICALLY 
ALREADY ARBINTROPUCJORY 
COURSEZ. ALMOST TUX) THIRDS OF THE INCOMING FRESHMEN 
ARB TAKING THEM...
mm?
/ ADMISSIONS SAYS 
/ TVS 6BTTIN6 HARDER 
ANPHARDERTOAT- ' TRACT KIPS WO ARB 
' PREPARED. YOU SHOULD 60 TO THE FRESHMAN 
MEET'N'GREETTOPAY. 
, nSARBALBYBfuAWELCOME THANK YOU. TO WALDEN, SIR.600P 
SON! TO BE
HERB! j*
I ^
PICKEP YES, SIR! 1M IN  
YOUR REMEDIAL MATH;
MuRSeS PEMBPiAL HISTORY,>7-7 REMEP/AL BIOLOGY,
/ ' ANP PRE-PEMED/AL
, ENGLISH'
10^ WELL,
H, 600? LUCK THANK
/ ID YOU, SON. YOU. SIR!
J> / YOU, TOO!C
(39'1'uxj c$.
ACROSS
I. Organized business
corporation
4. Sharpen backwards?
5. Egyptian landmark 
8. Take the conn
10. Soul (French)
II. Twirling sticks
13. Hindu god
14. Healing plant
15. Musical notes
17. High mountain
18. Inquire
19. Be in debt 
21. Check
23. Sweet potato
24. Top of head
25. Sn
27. Gave a speech
29. Weep
30. Solo
31. Headlight genre
33. Old text
34. Terminate
DOWN
1. Once____Lifetime
2. Desert wanderer
3. Grafted plant
4. Gaffe
5. Stylus
6. Jon Anderson group
7. Lay waste
8. Handheld timepiece
9. Tarsal extremity
11. Sheep bleat
12. Metallic mixture 
.16. Raja ocellata
20. Jurisdiction of an 
Arabian prince 
22. Bunk, Water, e.g.
24. Greek god of woods
26. A synthetic fabric
27. Bravo!
28. Masculine name 
30. Gain in years 
32. British band who
sang "If You Leave"
i on on : h- Q j n LLJ: on co
id cRFFd vFpsfRp
SOUJHAT WELL, I 
> MADEYOU WANTED 
 CHOOSE UML- A QUALITY 
PEN, SON? EDUCATION,
I WENT TO A SELF-ESTEEM 
ACAPBMYIN CALIFORNIA, 
ANP FRANKLY, IU/ASA 
Lime UNDEPCHALLEN6ED...
-\
IFI6URED ITKJAS TIME TO 
PUSH MYSELF, FIND AN EUm, . 
HI6HLY COMPETITIVE COLLEGE 
WHERE I COULD REALLY PUR
SUE MY ACADEMIC INTERESTS!
YOU KNOW, MR. PRESIDENT, THAT THING YOU SAIP 
ABOUT PUNNING A HI6H 
SCHOOL STRUCK A _
CHORD WITH ME... (V
WALDEN 15 6BTTING KILLED IN 
THE MARKETPLACE. THE LOWER 
WE'VE SET THE BAR TO ATTRACT 
STUPENTS, THE MORE OUR REP
UTATION HAS SUFFERED!Vfi )
yn/j YES, SIR. INSTEAD OF
HAVE A TRYING TO HOLD ON
CYw!k TO OUR FADING IPENTITYA5A COLLEGE, WHYDONTWEPEPOSh . TION OURSELVES AS 
I A DEMANDING HIGH | 
ITS FINALLY _irr/1HAPPENED- BUTA
I'M RUNNING A PAMN FINEHIGH SCHOOL ONE, SIR'
THINK OF IT, SIR.NO, CAMP
INSTEAD OF BEINGBELL, 1M
A SO SO COLLEGE,NOT REAP/
WECOUIPBECOMBTO GIVE UP
THE FINEST HIGHON THIS
SCHOOL IN THE rPLACE
COUNTRY!{JUSTYET...
I'VE TALKED TO SOME OF THESE 
KJDS-THEt'PE SMART! THEIR 
ONLY PROBLEM ISTHAT THEIR EDUCATIONS LEFT THEMI6N0RANT!
BBS

---------------------------------------------------

THi-s Si-re Ueh exceu&JT I (F \
Ptaeg- VJ, 'evefe
7X" / wegP T stw5>/ nUe^e
trrrai on: pi^KecTo5 
lsj >3fAT' ^ A STWit..
(T'-l. > i/aey j 
Co\Meu\eij[( L
)9Vos -TMB Crry ^A<e5 A-/ impotefrjf 
Cnkii^tM-rtoh To rwr w/V- Bfi^ii-f 
, -J 14 free !
iCrr^ (,ouis
\ ujAPfte  !   _<
axshunnews
VVJWrluJE, AT 
pjJ0tHE(l- |>Arf-T F TKe PcAjx,..
(C75 UrvW Tube  P. j>. MATIOW1'1- WORKS PlamT oPRce^>
to (TU THl> U/oyeiLlH,
U^VIL Hi-/------------------------
rlcHamp iP*y,+*t'
CpAaAAiTMCfc/y
-ro C >CT)
-v" j/
De -rue \
's-rgEL rwA vjxujL'i ! / f I ) V
OFF|CE
ii liccpIsiA.ht M*
hi boD -'THE'f N C/EiO SffAu Tut 
Flo o(Z_ t iLe, I
H6^EFUU,y
427r wrtx7 psev
U/ 4-
The iNmoMirriN WHfJwB/VJV H\ ru*
HUMBBRiis/O
' Ken. C7od news/
I've apthe
ffomwor/ >
jgBgZ
u)e.l\, */an+ +z> go 
5oyv>e(jhere. tV\eni
Jnece to, though?Ieste movie'
r A roman+'cVroU on -tfte
sv
MrAwm-'AGu/ 
cx\\i)Ourvi -So
IW//V
7r ^ caul i otcM^ '~'''\ 
home and 0e+ c-vAbuihed biy yoof c*ft.V\-e.r\<.rr\L]y
ig ua naverzorg i ng
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON
Were nof going to the mountains, so shut up and lets 
go!... Most kids would count their lucky stars that 
every vacation their folks took em to the beach!"
Throughout their songwriting careers, the 
Gershwins rarely discussed their younger brother, 1 
Nathan, who played gutbucket.
f*>SfcVTS ft e-IEP
HvstoPy *f
Its no good, Dawson! Were being sucked in by 
the suns gravitational field and theres nothing 
we can do!... And let me add those are my 
sunglasses youre wearinni
Bootsy!... Booooooootsy! ...We are calling you 
from the world of the living!... Are you there, 
Bootsy? Give us a sign, Bootsy! Give us a sign!
I P ukt To /ulieoOute0/& OF-POLI-XI^\AN^ UMO MAn>fc er HAPPEN. Ta^>^
7>//r r/j/i77W *
"Whoa whoa whoa!... Youll have to go 
back and walk through again."
QmCLeMctZ
my- \
l'o L.\iee to
U-CLColUC 
YU Auw TO
Tue <$&**> P
L
of- -tH" 
we<j -y I
gM^Yec- /
I
MILL H<#/ 
1^/ -TU&C / 
CITY' /

---------------------------------------------------

The Pittsburgh Symphony
Musical
l'un, relaxing, 
t'Lfl'L'sh i 11 LT
Rl'SLTVL'd Sealing 
for each concert
In ease of .1 
schedule conflict  
two Student 
Exchange Certificates 
for each fi-pack 
purchased
Other ft, 12,18 or 24 
packs available!
No nastv aftertaste!
^^nrvcetts' Sunday B2 Series "Music to Remember"
Concerts begin at 2:30 pm
October 2 March 19
Lorin Maazel, conductor Leonard Slatkin, conductor 
George Vosburgh, trumpet Jeffrey Siegel, piano
Works by Davis, Shchedrin, Works by Purcell 
Tchaikovsky & Roussel Rachmaninov & Corigliano
for 6
TOOKDKR 
ANO I'OK 
MORh INK) 
C AI I 
(-112) .'W2-4t)l)ll 
or complete 
the order lorni
helnw
December 4
Kirk Muspratt, conductor 
Richard Stoltzman, clarinet 
Works by Piston,
Copland & Dvofdk 
December 18 
James Conlon, conductor 
Leon Fleisher, piano
Works by Singleton 
Ravel &Mussorgsky
April 30
Lorin Maazel, conductor 
Midori Nohara, piano 
Works by Bolcom, 
Prokofiev & Tchaikovsky 
May 14
Lorin Maazel, conductor 
William Caballero, horn 
Works by Tchaikovsky, 
Strauss & Gershwin
HlEPmMlSWffllONYIIlL(MN THEAR N T._D I_UADLWUKAUFMANNS
SIX-PACK ORDER FORM
____________________ Series A7_____ X $45 = _
City/State/Zip
Phone (day)
School Name
# of seats
+ Handling Fee S2.5Q
Grand Total_______
Method of Payment
O Check (To: Pittsburgh Symphony) 
O AMEX O Discover
O Mastercard O Visa
Student I.D. Number
Mail to: Six-Packs
Pittsburgh Symphony 
600 Penn Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222-3259
Exp. date
Name as it appears on card
Signature
A genius figured it out 
HP built it in.
E=MC
^
 HEWLETT 
PACKARD 48G
SFPRCEi flND ENERSVgCentripetal Force 
Hooka's Lat-iflass-Energy Re lati onID Elastic CollisionsDrag ForceLaw of Gravitation
ABc?EF
RAD POLARCHARSMODESMEMORYSTACKPREV MENU
MTH
GPRG
HCST
I'VAR
J' AkWh/
KL
UP HOMEDEF RCL 4NUM UNDOPICTURE*VIEWSWAP
1
M'STO
NEVAL0' Ap' T' ?QR
ASIN dACOS SATAN 2.xJ x<10* LOGexLN
knTW
SCOS
rj/AW
ufx'
VVVxWX
EQUATIONMATRIXEDIT CMD 1PURG ARGCLEARDROP
ENTER+/-Y
Puuh
z
kduc' 
USER ENTRYSOLVE
/ 7
PLOT SYMBOLIC
' 8 '9
( ) #
TIMESTAT UNITSf ] _
 r ARV
 The HP 48G has built-in 
equations, functions, 
and menus to guide you 
through complex 
calculations.
 Access over 300 built-in equations.
 Push a button, choose from a pull
down menu, and fill in the blanks. 
Entering data is that easy.
 View 3-D graphs.
 Perform algebra and calculus 
operations on equations before 
entering values.
 Enter and see equations like they 
appear on paper.
 Work with different units of measure. 
The HP 48G will convert them for you. 
So, enter inches, centimeters, yards, and 
feet, together in one equation  itll 
convert them.
 Youll quickly learn to 
operate it!
Pull-down menus guide you through 
problem-solving smoothly and quickly. 
Push a button, select an entry from the 
pull-down menu, and fill in the blanks.
 Check it out at your 
college bookstore.
The HP 48G graphic calculator gives 
you a whole lot more for a whole lot 
less than you think. Compare  the 
HP 48G fits your budget.
m
HEWLETT
PACKARD
PIZZA OUTLETTailored to your hometown taste
FREE DELIVERY_______ 687-9555_______
PIZZA OUTLET
LARGE 16" CHEESE PIZZA$499Delivered
i
Not Valid with any other offer. One coupon per order. Please mention coupon when ordering. Coupon expires 9/30/94.
4T

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
rarhol revealed at museum on North Side
[By BETHANY SUTTON
Partan Staffwriter
forced concrete staircase, openly visible 
light fixtures, and overhead support 
beams. According to Gluckman, the in* I jumped at the opportunity to write terior design of the musuem purpose* lout The Andy Warhol Museum. Even fully resonates a clean, modernist, iniough I had seen numerous prints of dustrial aesthetic reminiscent of the 
ich works as his Campbells Soup Can artists working space, although a con,d depictions of Marilyn, Jackie and scious effort was made not to overemIXvis, I was not 
ry familiar with 
,uch else he did. 
taking advane of the past 
loliday weekend, 
h caught a cab 
[owntown to learn 
Kittle more about 
a man who helped 
shape and reflect 
many of ourh
cietys ideals.
Officially open 
to the public on 
May 16, The Andy 
Warhol Musuem 
currently displays 
yer 500 original 
-orks, in addition 
to containing nu
merous drawings, 
sculptures, photo
scripts, 
video and audio
tapes and source 
materials; this 
makes it by far the 
most extensive 
single-artist musuem in the nation. It 
was designed by New York based archi
tect Richard Gluckman, well respected 
among the artistic community for his 
design and partial restoration of such 
design spaces as the Dia Center for the 
Arts, the Whitney Musuem of American 
Art (both in New York) and The Musuem 
of Fine Arts in Boston.
Gluckman chose the former Frick & 
Lindsay Building to house the musuem, 
in obvious homage to the Factory, 
Warhols legendary aluminum foil and 
3ilver paint-covered studio. Originally
The Andy Warhol Museum is a seven-story 
industrial building.
phasize his 
art in the de
sign of the 
building. We 
could have 
said we
wanted cow 
wallpaper on 
the stairs or 
camouflage 
paint on
the facade. 
Instead... 
things like 
the tinted 
plaster and 
the alumi
num lead ceil
ing came in as 
references. 
Upon enter
ing the mus
uem, I went 
through a fun
nel-like pas
sage into the 
lobby, which 
was designed, 
in Gluckmans words, to create a forced perspec
tive, the focal point of which is an enor
mous self-portrait by Warhol.
Ostensibly visible from the street 
throughlarge glass and aluminum doors, 
his Self Portrait (1986) depicts his fa
mous crop of white hair emblazoned in 
canary yellow and set harshly against a 
black canvas. His expression is that of a 
mad genius, with piercing eyes which 
seemed to challenge the purpose of my 
mere existence in his musuem.
Through this intriguing piece, in com
bination with a series of other self-porAccordingly, the theme of this first 
floor is Heritage; it contains a trio of 
vignette panels detailing his CarpathoRusyn background, artistic training at 
Carnegie Tech (now CMU), and the con
tinual influence of his mother, Julie 
Zavacky Warhola, with whom he had an 
especially close relationship. Also promi
nent on this floor is a gallery of commis
sioned portraits of such celebrities as 
Liza Minelli and Mick Jagger, as well as 
the Theater.
Warhol prided himself on his role as 
filmmaker. Upon his introduction to di
rector Jonas Mekas and purchase of a 
16mm Bolex camera, he proceeded to 
amass thousands of rolls of footage for 
his first work, Sleep: five hours of poet 
John Giomo lying in bed.
Throughout the sixties, he slowly in
creased his production of films, and upon 
his move to the Factory in 1963, friends 
who spent time in his studio (Edie 
Sedgwick, Ultra Violet, Ingrid Superstar, Joe Dallesandro, and Candy Dar
ling) began to appear regularly as cast 
members. This group also included The 
Velvet Underground, a rock group which 
he later produced as part of a multime
dia show called the Exploding Plastic 
Inevitable.
The top floor, Fame, Fortune, and 
Fashion, gives an overview of Andys
themes lent his work a superficial qual
ity. The floor contains several works 
which Armstrong considers to be 
Warhols most artistically ambitious and
Coca-Cola (1960) is typical of Warhols 
pop art.
deserving of critical attention. A large, 
skylit gallery containing a series of 56 
works arranged side-by-side on all four 
walls of the room, entitled Shadows, 
was one of his latest works, as well as 
one for which many feel he deserves the 
most recognition.
On long-term loan from the Dia Cen
ter for the Arts, Shadows is an abstract 
representation of the phenomenon of 
light. It 
brings up a 
problem in the 
way people 
perceive 
Andys work, 
maintains 
Armstrong. 
His art is so 
immediate, so 
satisfying, 
that peopleThe Last Supper (1986) resides in the fourth floor gallery. tendnotto ask
why* or how. So the intellectual con
tent of his work is often neglected, be
cause his work doesnt look intellectu* constructed in 1911 for the production traits on the walls of the entry gallery, I 
and distribution of supplies for oil wells, felt I was given a very personal first look 
steel mills, and mines, I was made con- at the artist most well-known for often 
stantly aware of the buildings very impersonal representations of comarchitectual history by its gray rein- mercialization and celebrity.
role as a cultural icon, via three panels 
describing his relationships with Vogue 
editor Diana Vreeland, business man
ager Fred Hughes, and acclaimed fash
ion designer Halston.
Through these texts, the importance 
of celebrity, wealth, and style in his life 
were made undoubtedly clear; however, 
perhaps in dispute of those critics who 
contend Warhols fascination with these
ally challenging. And yet, in a way, its 
more challenging intellectually than vi
sually. Shadows raises that issue, so 
perhaps it deepens the theme ofFame, 
Fortune, and Fashion.It tells you, Andy 
wasnt just a celebrity preoccupied with 
success.... [He was] a painter, a sculp
tor, a graphic artist, a filmmaker, a 
music producer, an author, a publisher. 
The scope of his creative activity was 
extraordinary  and it touched on the 
entire range of the eras popular cul
ture.
The sixth floor, aptly titled, Success: 
1950s, Early Pop, is devoted to the 
artists entry into the world of art; it 
contains commercial work, sketchbooks, 
and celebrity portraits. Upon his gradu
ation as a pictorial design major from 
the College of Fine Arts of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, Warhol found 
immediate employment in New York as 
a commercial artist, working for The 
New Yorker, Harpers Bazaar, Bergdorf 
Goodman, and Bonwit Teller.
By the mid-fifties, his work had been 
exhibited in numerous solo shows, he 
had completed a world tour, and had 
incorporated himself as Andy Warhol 
Enterprises. Influenced by avantgardists Jasper Johns and Robery 
Rauschenberg, he made his first true 
Pop-Art paintings in 1960 based on 
comic-strip characters, which he exhib
ited in the background of a window dis
play for Bonwit Teller.
According to art historian Robert 
Rosenblum, despite the rise of other 
artists working similarly within the 
realm of Pop culture, Warhol quickly 
emerged as a leader, choosing the gritti
est, tackiest, and most commonplace 
facts of visual pollution in America that 
would make the aesthetes and 
mythmakers of the fifties cringe in their 
ivory towers.
With such works as Brillo Box (Soap 
Pads), Close Cover Before Striking (Pepsi 
Cola), and Campbells Soup Cans, in 
addition to his famed representations of 
Liz Taylor, Marilyn Monroe, and Elvis 
Presley, W arhol ironically reflected mass 
culture as serious art, a move much 
more readily acclaimed abroad than in 
the United States.
While the cultural hierarchy here 
found it difficult to accept Pop Art, the 
European artistic community readily 
recognized its purpose: the exaltation of 
a very specific ideological structure 
whose global influence was rapidly ex
panding. With infinitely more speed 
Please see WARHOL, page L13
Explore the Burgh, go to brunch
Cruisin the Burgh
> by Christina Farrell
ru
Despite the toilsome work 
ethic for which CMU has be
come notorious, it is my firm 
belief that it is necessary to 
balance study-time with lei: sure-time.
Pittsburgh is full 
of great opportuni
ties for everything 
from study breaks 
to lull day expedi\ tions.
Every week I will, 
be acquaintingyou 
with some of the 
best spots to hit in 
the Burgh and the 
A easiest ways to get 
there.
The first stop on 
my great tour of 
Pittsburgh is 
Sunday branch at 
The Grand Con
course in Station 
Square.
Although the 
fine food is incen
tive enough to ven
ture from campus, 
it is the overall 
experience that 
makes it a not-tomiss place.
The building 
was built in 1901 as the Pitts
burgh and Lake Erie Railroad 
Terminal.
By now the benches and ticket 
counters havedisappeared, but 
the marble pillars and intri
cate detailing of the ceiling and 
windows remain to create a stun
ning first impression. But, more 
importantly, it is the way in which 
the elegance of the decor com
bines with the atmosphere of the 
old train station that makes it 
distinctive. At one time everyone 
from the wealthy elite to the steel 
workers would merge in the mag
nificent waiting area.
Seventy years later, the last of 
the passenger trains had come 
through, but people from all walks 
of life still gather in the same 
room. As I waited to be seated,
What
Brunch at The Grand Concourse
Where
Station Square
' 1 When
10 am to 2:30 pm on Sunday
Cost
$16 per person
How to Get There
Take the 61A, B, or C bus to Market 
Square (Forbes and Ross). Catch the T at 
the station located just north on Ross to 
Station Square.
For More Information
Grand Concourse: (412) 261-1717 
Station Square: (412) 471-5808
business, college students in 
jeans and tourists adorned with 
cameras and shopping bags.
Just like the old days, each 
party was issued a boarding 
pass which indicated the num
ber of passengers and their 
arrival time.
Passengers could either wait 
in the Gandy Dancer Saloon 
(formerly the baggage room) to 
get a drink and watch TV, or in 
the outdoor cafe to listen to a 
live quartet authentically cos
tumed in lederhosen.
Once our number came up, 
we were ushered 
past the five plen
tiful buffet tables 
and seated in the 
River Room  ap
propriately named 
for its view of the 
Monongahela re
flecting the Pitts
burgh skyline.
Although those 
sitting in the main 
dining area did not 
have the benefit of 
the great view, 
they were enter
tained by a live pi
ano and guitar.
After brunch, 
you may want to 
go shopping in the 
100+stores in Sta
tion Square or 
check out some of 
the other historic 
railroad buildings 
and artifacts lo
cated nearby.
I was surrounded by fans in 
Steelers paraphernalia who 
would later be heading to Three 
Rivers Stadium for the opening 
of the football season. There were 
also people in suits discussing
Christina 
Farrell is a sophomore music 
major. If you have any ques
tions or suggestions about what 
to do in Pittsburgh, send 
e-mail to cf2s or contact The 
Tartan.
Velvet Crush holds its own
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
produces this album, and one can see his handi
work in almost every song  especially track 10, 
Weird Summer, which I thought was REM actuTeenage Symphonies to God by Velvet Crush is ally playing. Easter, who plays on the album as 
truly an album worth buying. The bands mixture well, plans on joining Crush on the European leg of 
of 60s and 70s pop rock perfection and harmony is their tour, 
so likable that Im
surprised no one 
has ever heard of 
them before. Ac
tually, there are 
probably people 
that have heard 
of Velvet Crush 
before  theyre 
probably just 
much cooler than 
I will ever be. Yes,
I know, even I 
have to admit 
that I am going to 
start doubting my 
own credibility.
Here it is my sec
ond review of an 
album this se
mester and its 
positive.Aside
from that, as I------------------------------------ SonyTexas
have often said T(|e pQp sou| of Ve|vet crush stands alone. The bands Teenage 
rcclTand roll rests s>Phon'es to God album Is an album worth buying.
in its simplicity. I guess if there is another maxim critical mass of sappiness.
I dont mean 
to suggest that 
the album is 
perfect. Perfect, 
absolute pop al
bums, to me at 
least, suggest 
people along the 
lines of Barry 
Manilow, Jon 
Bon Jovi and Ri
chard Marx. 
Those bands 
make me crave 
a mixture of 
saccharine and 
molasses to cut 
the sticky sweet 
taste left in my 
mouth. The 
kind of pop rock 
I like always 
has that little 
imperfection 
that keeps it 
from reaching a
to rock and roll, it is that a band must pay homage 
to those that came before them. Anyone listening 
to The Beatles cant deny that they borrowed from 
Buddy Holly, Chuck Berry, The Supremes, and 
even from Hank Williams and Woody Guthrie. 
Sure there is such a thing as overkill, but some of 
the best rock and roll bands managed to borrow 
from the past and make that sound something that 
is completely their own. Velvet Crush does that 
perfectly.
I could draw on many comparisons between 
Velvet Crush and The Beatles, The Byrds, the
What is that imperfection? Im not sure. Maybe 
its the occasional fuzziness of guitar or the occa
sional missed chord change. Whatever it is, Velvet 
Crush does it so well that its songs invariably 
spend a lot of time in my head whether the CD is 
playing or not.
The song, Blank Pages, sounds like a song 
directly off of a Matthew Sweet album. Quite ironic 
considering that they do a song by Sweet, 
Somethings Gotta Give, and their own song 
sounds more Sweet than Sweet.
Whatever kind of pop rock youre looking for, I
Rasberries, Big Star, REM, Teenage Fanclub and think you can find it on Symphonies to God. The
harmonies ring and affect, while their lyrical and 
musical hooks grab and take you for a really fun 
ride. Youll find the album nothing more than 
sweet.
Actually, I just wanted to see if I could fit the 
word sweet just one more time into the review. I 
could, and I did.
Matthew Sweet, but I dont think that is necessary. 
The music on this album has a pop soul all its own. 
The only band to even come close to such pop 
craftsmanship in recent memory is The Connells.
Its not surprising that Velvet Crush carries this 
particular sound so well. Mitch Easter, who is 
probably best known as the producer of early REM,

---------------------------------------------------

IvENlL 
ILLNESS
AWARENESS
WEEK
-oAHVIL g,Bm h
Its a matter of fact: Intru mf the 
UtSt pmpelatamn mver rn wall xeffer a 
mental mr xebxtanse abexe daxmrder 
an any mne yeart Severe mental 
allnexxex affest Itnu mf the adelt 
pmpelatamn, mr apprmxamately 5 mal
lamn adeltxt
Mental illnesses are more than 
what you think. They are treatable 
medasal allnexxext Tmm few pemple 
and tmm few health anxeranse planx 
resmgnaze thax fast, and mallamnx gm 
entreatedt
Silence is no treatment. Bet mnly 
mne perxmn an fmer xeekx and re
seavex apprmpraate treatmentt
Spread the words. Pxyshaatras treat
mentx are effestave and, an xmme 
saxex, are xagnafasantly mmre xm than 
Dtherwell knmwn medasal treatmentxt
Treatment SDMNu
This is your boss, Tom.
Tom Marsan, Vice President of Cardmember Services
Hes an amicable fellow and he knows his stuff. So if it 
feels like he ripped apart the presentation youre making to 
senior staff later this week, remember, thats why you have 
Tom (did you notice we go by first names around here?).
As a member of our mentor program, Tom is here to 
encourage you to produce your optimal work.
At First USA, we foster progressive thinking that you might 
not expect from a bank. And in the dynamic, fast-paced 
credit card industry, either you innovate or lose customers. 
We have nearly seven million card holders to attest to our 
success in developing better ways to do business. Ways that 
make us a leader.
Were looking for creative thinkers - people driven to 
discover the best solutions and who have the skills to find 
them. Individuals with:
 Bachelors degree candidacy
(with an emphasis on quantitative analysis)
 3.25 or better GPA
 Leadership ability, initiative, team-orientation
 Superior verbal, written and presentation skills.
The Career Center will be accepting resumes 9119 through 
9/30 on behalf of First USA Bank for interviews which 
will be held on campus Wednesday, 11/2. If youd like to 
spend some time with one of our representatives on this 
date, please submit your resume to the Career Center. We 
are an equal opportunity employer who is proud of the 
achievements of each individual and team.
ma;hr-k.u
First in Quality. First in Service.
H&
and 
SOCIAL SCIENCES
 Carnegie Mellon 
The College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences congratulates the 
following H&SS undergraduates 
for their academic achievement 
and commitment to excellence 
that has earned for them the 
honor of being named to the 
Spring 1994 H&SS Deans List.
m;BhUtBi
Michael Ayoob* Sandra Banks'John Berg 
Vittorio Bernardino' Laura Billet'Kathleen Braun 
Christy Callahan* Michael Carlip* 
Justin Carroll'Derek Davison Katherine Dyreyes Beth Franklin'Alisa Gabbe Diane Hairston' 
Conal Ho 
Bret loli Hester Kamin'Lisa Kiclelinski Donald Krepps' Larissa Longnecker' Anna Lorch'Regis Paul Marcelin' Peter Moore Ian Murphy'Wallace Neel Andrew Presby Anthony Pyro' Norltoshi Sano Yantifl Shaykin Nicole Shechtman 
Joline Slkaitis' Douglas Smith' Zuleikha Spencer Nathan Stark 
Russell Steele'Anuj Vaidya'Kamela White Joshua Wisch' Eun-Hyuck Yi'
kfcUftf;Bh
Darlene Ailing Thomas Bender Amber Benezra Sonya Brady'Jill Goodall*
Michael Grafton Karen Grunberg Michelle Hall*
Lawenda Jones'Lesley Kay Richard Koprivnak* 
Anthony Lamanna 
Alyssa McCunney' Heather Miles'
William Moran'
Ismail Nasir*Kimberly Nolan' 
Suzanne Paddock Aidan Palmer*Scott Pitkin*Margaret Puskar*Gina Schuyler Eugene Shen Edward Slavishak*Eric Strauss Jason Streitfeld Calvin Swartzentruber* Jason Togyer'Gary Wilson*Steven Woyicki Carter Yang Tara Zane
3giaf;h
Eric Applewhite* Michael Bahe* Sara Barton*Troy Benowitz Fiona ChanGus Chkalban 
Jason Heinlein* Gordon Jackson* 
Aaron Kozbelt* 
Christina Kranich* Jeffrey Kunlns* Naomi Langer* 
Michael Matthew* John Nimpfer 
Rhonda Payne* Amy Potthast" Martin Riker* 
Cheri Rogers' Michelle Rozzi Abby Schiff*Peter Simonyi Carolyn Skarada 
Christa Sober* Craig Stiver* Justin Sullivan Lillian Wasvary* 
David Wyse Leslie Zubaty*
kBiaf;h
Kymberly Bartlo 
Jeanne Bauer* Kristen Beveridge* Rhodi Chambliss Germain De Seve Jason Di Martini* Bobbie Dofflemyer* 
Marisa Fisher* Keegan Folk 
Kendra Gilds'Seth Halvaksz*Micki Kochanskyj* Kathleen Kramer* 
Michael Kunsmann* 
Eugene Kuo*Steven Nicholson 
Mark Sanders' Daniel Schanbacher
ma,rU lBe;
Richard Seeger
"Dean's List High Honors
BtaDeL MfLi
Carneg iAl

---------------------------------------------------

"cl "iw5i, A biw,loal dlFFk, A 12 plC5lyjlw eUUva,
l-movies often fail miserably, but occassionally entertain
ight 42g7otte
I lived, anyway).
After we boogie the credits away, we 
are magically whisked away to what 
must have been somewhere in Califor
nia. We can assume that they did not go 
onlocationforthisfilm. Why? Because if 
they had, then they either wouldnt have 
been able to get tickets to go there, or
Where I got it: I found this hot little 
number at a video store back home, but 
Ive seenit in countless other video stores 
since then. Look in the action or war 
section. I also caught a little bit of it 
(albeit in a heavily edited form) on late 
night TV.
The Exterminator, on the other hand, 
is definitely the good guy. We know this 
because hes a victim. He doesnt have a 
job, and he only has one friend. He falls 
in love with a dancer at the local bar, but 
her dancing career is brought to an end 
in a Harding/Kerrigan-esque park epi
sode, involving X s gang (who must be 
sd wn7td wht"tet7 they would have realized that its Plot Synopsis: .Cot7mgenoc7  is your just about the only criminals in New 
IstaNbul, and not IstaMbul (or basic vigilante vendetta film, with a
Hello, and welcome to the first intallment of File 13.
To officially christen this as a new 
ilumn to the Tartan, I feel it only fitting 
|hat we start off with a true master of 
te form; a lone icon who never seems to 
t us down. I am talking, of course, 
iout Robert Ginty, bad action film star 
;raodinaire. So prepare to bite the 
ullet for this double feature with extra
Title: 52got ig7t
ltar: Robert (Out on Bail) Ginty
lere I got it: I originally found this 
ilm at a video store back home, in the 
Paction section. However, much to my 
liorror, I have seen it in several other 
action sections. Check at older, lowerjality video stores for a shot at this
Plot Synopsis: 52got ig7t is, in my 
bpinion, one of the worst movies I have 
ever seen (If not THE worst).
I The action (?) starts out with a flash
back scene, filmed on really bad film 
stock. In this flashback, we see two young 
twin children (one male and one female) 
and their parents. Suddenly their par
ents are blown away in front of them for 
no apparent reason.
| Then we are treated to what is prob
ably the highlight of the film: the disco 
theme song. Although the back of the 
video said that the film was copyrighted 
in 1986, Im sure that was the date of the
Constantinople either, but thats another 
story), and they would have spelled the 
subtitle correctly.
I dont remember too much about the 
film, quite frankly, after this point be
cause I completely lost interest in it. I 
do, however, remember that Ginty res
cues his sister from the clutches of the 
bad guys (who are held up on a yacht), 
and then cuts some people up with a 
chainsaw that a dock worker is conve
niently operating close by. Then they 
escape in a jeep. Oh, and one of the bad 
guys bums his hands on White Fire (its 
the worlds largest diamond). Im not 
sure exactly why he was burned on it, 
but Im sure that a pair of oven mitts 
would have prevented this injury.
I stopped watching the movie about 
fifteen minutes into it, but I already 
have a feeling I know what happened: 
either Ginty and his sister retrieve the 
diamond, unscathed, or Ginty and his 
sister are unscathed as the diamond 
spells doom for the the bad guys, de
stroying itself in the process.
Memorable scene or dialogue: The
disco theme song is embarassingly 
catchy. The chainsaw scene, featured on 
the video box, is memorably graphic, but 
too short for its own good.
Title: .Cot7mgenoc7 
Stars: Robert (Vietnam, Texas) Ginty, 
Mario (Posse ) van Peebles, the roller
York, except for the Mafia, from whom 
they buy drugs). We of course know that 
its only a matter of time before X s 
gang somehow manages to mess with 
his veteran friend, but no one in the 
movie has this suspicion.
The Exterminator decides thatits time 
to strike back, so he does so through 
what could only be described as an ATeam Plot Device; he converts his 
friends garbage truck into a machinegunning battle tank. I expected Mr. T to 
pop up at any minute to help them out.
Basically, a lot of people get killed 
(some actually just get shot, if you can 
believe it) and the Exterminator tri
umphs in the end (as if this is really 
giving away too much of the plot  he 
has a flamethrower after all). But we are 
left asking ourselves: at what price vic
tory? Has he really won? And did I just 
waste an hour and a half watching this 
dreck?
Sneak Preview: Next week, well look 
at what some directors refer to as a 
musical. Thats all for now.
wn7td wht"tet7 g, n Abegc7 a7tnog"t 
k7goge mnAc7p nho2cb2 2t 2n, dto oc yghh 
cbo o2t j7cjt7 jnjt7kc7Uv rg, yn"c7got 
yghm Dg7taoc7, n7t rnh rn7ohtdp 1n"gD 
fdea2p neD 3nm ungmgv
really grisly twist. It was released by 
Cannon films and produced by GolanGlobus (remember this equation: Can
non + Golan + Globus = Stupid action 
film): the same folks responsible for 
:g,,ge ge Maogcep 1thon ic7atp and the 
Death Wish films.
Robert Ginty is a Vietnam veteran 
who fights crime in New York City with 
a souvenir of his militaty service.
Amachine gun? you think. Or maybe 
an automatic rifle? No, sorry, wrong on 
both counts. The Exterminator is New 
Yorks yhnmto27ckt7 vigilante.
The funniest thing about this movie is 
the general premise (obviously). It isnt 
like a flamethrower is something that 
you can carry aroundinyour back pocket, 
and this guy doesnt have a car! So basi
cally, he carries this flamethrower 
around New York City, and no one ever 
seems to notice. I know that you can 
overlook some things, but this is ridicu
lous.
When the Exterminator breaks up an 
armed robbery and bakes up two of the 
three assailants, he arouses the atten
tion of X, a really ruthless (and athletic Ratings: In accordance with Newtons 
 watch for his acrobatics off the top of laws of gravity (What goes up, must
Memorable scene or dialogue: This.. . 
Exterminator. Goes around... burning 
people up with a flamethrower.
the crashed armored car) gang lord 
(played by Mario van Peebles). We know 
that X is the bad guy, because he likes 
to tie people to subway tracks and kid
nap people off the street to make sure 
that the cocaine he s buying is good 
quality stuff.
But hes not a criminal without a heart; 
and when his brother is (literally) hickory
come down), and with the knowledge 
that infinity is inifinite on both positive 
AND negative axes, I have devised a 
negative rating system. In other words, 
the more bombs it gets, the worse it is.
52got ig7t Five bombs. More effective 
than Nyquil.
.Cot7mgenoc7  Three bombs. Itll be
'video release: people just didnt wear skating guy in Michael Jacksons Bad smoked by the Exterminator, he fights hard to convince yourselfthat Mario van 
thatmuch polyester inl986 (or not where video back. Peebles still has a career after this one.
Grell and Gold stick together
; One thing that really bothers me 
about a lot of rating systems is that 
they generally have a scale from 1-5, 
and all of the bad movies instantly 
get ones. That would have you be
lieve that all bad movies are equally 
bad. This is just not so. Some movies 
are worse than others, and yon 
shouldn't assume that all movies with 
a one are equally bad. So, I. have 
devised a negative point system. A 
movie like 52got ig7t (see above) 
would receive five bombs, deeming it 
almost unwatchable. A really stupid 
but likeable film would receive only 
one bomb. And a classic film such as 
wn,nshnean wouldnt receive any 
bombs at all; in fact, you could say 
that it would receive negative bombs.
This is the general breakdown:
5 bombs Almost completely un
watchable. Not only in
sipid, but boring.
4 bombs Incredibly stupid, but not 
too bad in small
3 bombs Pretty bad, but likeable 
for some bizarre reason.
2 bombs Morefuntolaughatthan 
to laugh with.
1 bomb In terms of bad movies, 
this one would be fairly 
decent.
Sables arch-enemy Maggie the 
Cat. Also going along with the 
never say never philosophy, 
Gold revealed that they both 
wouldliketo continue theShado 
storyline from W7tte M77ck even 
though they no longer work for 
DC.
Anyone slightly familiar with 
sd &n,ce MeD7naUg Grells work, with books like 
W7tte M77ckp 5n7hc7D, and most
wcmga lccU 
w27cegaht,
pearing as the Trickster), and 
Jon Sable had a brief stint off the 
page and onto the small screen, I 
wishfully asked if there were any 
movies or television in the works.
Although there is some inter
est in both 32nmteJ, 4tn7, and 
3nsht, Gold is a bit jaded with 
movies [since it takes] too much 
time to actually hit the screen.
He explained that first the
Part two of a two-part limited obviously 32nmteJ, 4tn7,p cant movie is optioned, you hire pubseries; this time my victims are help but notice his fascination licity, then, especially if comic 
Mike Grell and Mike Gold. with Native American culture, related, you hire a toy manufacThey are writer and editor re- Also by looking at him with a turer, and then  three years 
spectively of, most recently, feather in his pony tail, and Na- later  the movie is made. That
32nmteJ, 4tn7, (from Im
age, then Axis although no 
issue was released, and now 
back with Image), plus some 
older gems like W7tte M7T
7ckp W7tte M77ckv42t 
fcesck rbeot7, (DC), and 
&ce 3nsht i7tthneatv
: At the time of this inter
view  last spring at the 
Pittsburgh Comicon  
32nmteJ, 4tn7,p after being 
dropped by Image after is
sue 2, was scheduled to reime production at Todd 
; Johnson and Larry 
| Stromans Y47gstI Axis Com
ics. However, during the 
8iunmer, Axis Comics dis
banded and 32nmteJ, 4tn7, 
r^as since returned to 
piage.Just from the above
is if youre lucky.
Gold also stated that the 
X-Men have been optioned 
for a movie for well over a 
decade, and nothing con
crete has come of that. Re
gretfully well have to wait 
for a while before we see any 
Grell/Gold creations live on 
screen.
That about concludes a 
brief break from my regular 
column format. I cant say 
enough how much I enjoyed 
doing this interview. Of 
course I was intimidated at 
first but the relaxed manner 
of Mike Grell and Mike Gold, 
plus the great humor, put 
me at ease right away.
Before I go I have to add 
that the Grell and Gold table
list you can tell that Grell Mike Grell and Mike Golds first issue of 5MI clearly was the best at the 
and Gold have quite a long H'ARE'T X)AfIeD. which launched the Current entire Pittsburgh Comicon. 
partnership. ?eIIA Lee'T series, premiered in 1987. There was a large display of
According to Gold, jok4gly, We began working to
gether in 1976 and have been 
together since then because ev
erybody hates us. Personally I 
it hard to believe that anyart from past projects as well 
as most of the art from 32nmteJ, 
4tn7, #3, an authentic Native 
American headdress, free feath
ers (like the one in Grells pony 
tail), plus ashcans (small black 
and white copies of comics) and
tive American jewelry, he is eas
ily mistaken for a Native Ameri
can himself.
The only Indian blood in my 
body is from a pocket knife and a 
ne hates these guys since I had bottle of whiskey, Grell said, 
trouble conducting this interview Growing up in Colorado near a high quality photocopies of origibecause I was laughing rather reservation, most of his friends nal art for sale, 
than writing most of the time, were Native Americans so, in They also had a limited edition
| Both Grell and Gold began their the good old days before A.I.D.S hologram cover version of 
comics careers in a different me- we became blood brothers. He 32nmteJ, 4tn7, #1, but I had to 
dium  comic strips  then also said, Native American phiended up together at DC. losophy has always appealed to
: Oddly enough, while talking me. We cant own the earth...
about leaving Image and joining that makes sense to me. We have
; Axis, Grell and Gold said they to take care of what we got.
riever say never when asked Since Mike Gold worked on the __________________________... ______
about future work with Image, ill-fated, yet very entertaining geot7"gtk, oc 7tanjv rt g, 7tnhhd 
IS^ture projects in addition to ihn,2 television show (featuring D7tnDge onUge n s7tnU y7cm 2g, 
v RN32nmteJ, 4tn7, include a revival Mark Hamills only memorable t,,teognh S2d,ga, kc7U ge c7Dt7 oc 
Pf &ce 3nsht and a series for role since Luke Skywalker, ap- 7tnD ,cmt etk acmga, oc 7t"gtkv
kk
be content to just drool over it 
since it was a bit pricey.
&n,ce MeD7naUgp n ,cj2cmc7t 
S7cyt,,gcenh 57goge mnAc7p g, 
Dtj7t,,tD o2no 2t 2n, ec mc7t
YOUR ASSIGNMENT:
TO EXPAND YOUR UNDERSTANDING OF ASIA.
Each year the Henry Luce Foundation selects a group of outstanding young Americans to 
live, work and study in Asia for one year. For twenty-one years the Luce Scholars program 
has aimed to create Asia-aware professionals who will assume leading roles in American 
society.
Luce Scholars Program
Who is Eligible?
 Current CMU seniors (expecting to graduate before September 1995), graduate students, 
alumni and junior faculty.
 U.S. citizens no older than twenty-nine years of age by September 1, 1995 who have had 
little exposure to Asian culture or Asian studies.
 Individuals who have a record of the highest academic achievement, outstanding leadership 
qualities, and a clearly defined career interest. Personal characteristics that typify successful 
candidates include creativity, maturity, self-confidence, initiative, enthusiasm, breadth of 
interest, and sensitivity.
About the Program
The Luce Scholars Program offers grants to individuals in a wide range of professional 
fields for participation in internships and job placements in Asia. The program is aimed at 
recent college graduates who are not Asian specialists and would not otherwise have the 
opportunity or incentive during the course of their careers to come to know Asia or their 
Asian colleagues.
Specific placements have included the ateliers of several leading Japanese architects; 
English-language newspapers and magazines in Hong Kong, Singapore, and Bangkok; a 
family planning center in Taiwan; the Olympic organizing committee in Seoul; a pediatric 
hospital in Bangkok; a forestry project in Indonesia; and a number of local governmental 
agencies through East and Southeast Asia.
Application Information
Applications and more detailed information about the Luce Scholars Program are available 
from Barbara Lockley in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, BH 161 (email: bl2t; 
phone: x81080). Preliminary application deadline: October 17,1994. The selection 
committee will invite candidates to interview in late October and November and will submit 
two candidates for nomination to the Henry Luce Foundation by early December.

---------------------------------------------------

O 7ENx>. \ : \ * m
fMI OIKIEeUfUID 'B UffDE)eRM DM'Seyetique....
:
: eyetique E
: phiiique... :
eyegiigRg?
liarniStiique,
 :m*m
As a student, or member of the faculty or 
staff, you and your immediate family are entitled to 
20% off at Pittsburgh's most unique optical store. 
Squirrel Hill Eyetique!
Youve seen the celebrities ads in 
Sgoo,sb72 :nngetp e Sgoo,sb72p and elsewhere. 
Now you can shop Eyetique - and save!
Just bring in the coupon and youll 
receive 20% off everything in the store 
including:
Eyeglasses* (adults and children) 
Sunglasses
Contact lenses (except Acuvues)
Hearing aids
Supplies
Eye exams by an Optometrist 
Hearing exams by an Audjologist
*OUver Peoples & Jean-Paul Gaultier lenses only 
No other discounts or special offers apply
Eyetique hours:
Monday thru Thursday 9:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. 
Friday & Saturday 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
Directions from C.M.U.
Follow Forbes Avenue to Murray Avenue. Turn 
right on Murray. Eyetique will be just past the 
5th light (Phillips).
Must present coupon at time of purchase for discount.
Must present coupon 
for 20% discount
This coupon entitles bearer to 20% oft any product or service at 
Squirrel Hill Eyetique. No other discounts or special offers may be 
used. Other restrictions may apply.
SQUIRREL HILL EYETIQUE
2242 Murray Ave.  422-5300
Pittsburghs finest collection of unique fashion eyewear Complete vision and hearing testing/bearing aids.
i:Fr]M
(i ual3a5 3n =^aor proura,
a1 saiteirg ffirma IMIaite,, Klawacala.. terlhi ir P
Are you...
- in the upper 1/3 of your class, with at least a 3.00 QPA ?
- interested in a career in government or public service?
- a U.S. citizen or national?
Then you should find out more about the
IJtoi^ So
TortyiEraaiiii
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation was established by Congress in 1975 as the official federal memorial to honor the 33rd President of the 
United States. In particular, the Truman Foundation extols President Truman's high regard for public service, his understanding of government, 
and his desire to enhance educational opportunities for all Americans.
In this spirit, the Truman Foundation (through the Truman Scholarship competition) seeks to encourage and support students (about 90 per year) 
who have outstanding potential for leadership In public service. Winners receive up to $30,000 for tuition, fees, books, and room/board ($3,000 for the 
senior year of undergraduate school, and up to $27,000 in graduate school [(spread over two or three years of graduate study]).
Preliminary applications due: October 10,1994.
Additional information: Information and preliminary application packets are 
available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161.
Interested students may also contact the Carnegie Mellon Truman Scholarship liaison: Dr. Joseph Devine. Associate Dean of H&SS. Baker 
Hall 161 (E-mail is the best method for contact and arranging to meet. E- mail address: jd0x@Andrew; phone: x8-6117)
MfigEf Carnegie MellonIENGINEERING
Carnegie Institute Of Technology Proudly Acknowledges The 
Academic Achievement Of The Following Engineering 
Undergraduates Who Have Been Named To The Dean's List 
For The Spring Semester 1994:
FRESHMEN
Edward T. CheungECEChatchai KhunpitiluckECEBohuslav RychlikECE
Benson L. ChowECETimothy J. KnivetonECETimothy ShannonCHE
Andrew M. CuneoECEAnne-Claire KoppMEGAseem SharmaECE
Drew A. DavidsonMEGJoseph KuECEDana C. SilerECE
Rahul DeyECESum Yim S. RungECERonak SinghalECE
Bradley DietrichECEAlbert Y. KurlandECEMark O. StahlsmithECE
John G. DorseyECEHorace H. LauECEMichael T. StangerC1T
Brendan H. DunhamECEWee Tee LimECEMohsi E. SuECE
John W. FaistlECEWay Yin LiuECEPaul J. TracyECE
James C. FeldermanECESteven J. MeyersCHEChetan TrikhaECE
Andrew J. FloresMEGMichael S. MontemerloECENicholas M. VallidisMSE
Jason M. FungECEBrian H. MuellerECEBenjamin L. WangCHE
Jin Lung FungECEMatthew J. MyersECEChristopher E. WhiteCIV
Anat Gal-orMEGJon P. NedelECEAndrew G. WillisECE
Samuel J. GersteinECEGerald NgECEAlice WongCHE
Paul HatalaECEIroro F. OrifeECERong-Huei J. WuECE
Jason P. HeymECEPadmanabhan PillaiECEErena YamaguchiECE
Wesley L. HornerECEJeffrey M. PolegaECEJon T. YardECE
Brian D. HutsellECEStephanie PostalECERudolph W. YeungECE
Tomasz JaraczECEBrian L. PraskyECEJeremy M. ZelsnackECE
Gautam R. KharkarECEKanda RunapongsaECESebastian H. ZieslerECE
SOPHOMORES
Rahul BafnaMEGDavid R. DropCHEJeff X. MinkIMEG
Noemi BarabasCHEDaniel E. GiammarcrvAaron B. NealCIV
Talivaldis, S. BauerECEMichael A. GibsonECEShih Chun NgiamMEG
Arijit BiswasECERichard A. GordonECETodd R. OkimotoMEG
David A. BylerCIVLori J. GregorMEGAllon E. RauerECE
Sianhin R. ChuaECEBrian D. GuzziMEGAmy M. RochECE
June Z. ChungMEGSabeena JindalCHEMatthew P. RubaiMEG
Scott M. CochenourMEGFrancis JohnsonMSEGeorge C. ScottCHE
Jason N. CohencrvAnshika KaramchandaniECEAndrew T. ShefmanMEG
Chanakya C. DamarlaECEJohn H. KimMEGBecky L. SheridanCHE
Matthew J. DevosECERichard E. KingMEGJeffrey D. SilveyECE
Shiv DewanCIVOzge H. KoymenECEAngela L. SnyderECE
Keith T. DickersonCIVManu S. KumarECEKevin J. StanleyMSE
Colleen M. DillonMEGBrandon P. LaiECEStephanie S. StineCHE
Kyle B. DriscollMEGConnie LewMSEEric B. WheelerECE
JUNIORS
John C. AldenMEGAgatyhe HodacECEEricJ. PaulCHE
Jason S. BertschiECEPradeep KatikaneniECEChristian D. RavottaCIV
Carl J. BlakeECEKarsten M. KochCIVAlan D. SchinaziMEG
David C. CalvoMEGPasan KulvanitMEGChan H. ShinMEG
Luis Cascao-GustavoCHEYu Cong LamECEKian T. SohECE
Hui Fen ChanECEKencheong LimECEDavid J. StagerECE
Luei-Che ChengECEMichael R. MaloneECEBrian M. StewartECE
Jonathan L. ConferMSELarry J. MathersCHEArak SutivongECE
Jerry S. FriesCIVDavid W. MatheyMEGMandana V. FarahaniECE
Eric M. FrstCHEAlexandre MeierCHECory E. WeberECE
Matthew A. GoldbergECEHasan MetlaECELori WeissCHE
Gary J. GroznikMEGJohn A. MillerECENicholas D. WhartonCIV
Jacob J. HallMEGMichael J. MolnarCHEJesse P. WhittemoreECE
William D. HanleyCHEAmy M. MontanelliCHECorey W. ZinnMSE
Jason M. HarmanMSENarintr NarisaranukulMEG
SENIORS
Gaurav BabbarECEAsheesh B. GuptaMEGHenri SutiosoECE
Christopher J. BecekMEGAmy E. JohnsonCHEEric C. TaborCHE
John CarboneMEGPatricia Y. KuoCHEEdward S. TamECE
Samuel L. CarsonMEGStephen J. LudwickMEGChristopher J. TeslukMEG
Lawrence W. ChanECEFrancis S. MolfettaCIVMin J. YoonCHE
Alongkrit T. ChutinanECEShankar RamanECEChad O. YoshikawaECE
Michael L. CohenCIVGeorge F. SegedaECERachad YoussefECE
David S. FosterMEGRichard L. SmithMSE

---------------------------------------------------

_
"cl "iw5i, A biw,loal dlFFk, A er plC5lyjlw eUUvmes
Drink beer, play games, lose lunch
Thursday, September 15
Sammy and Rosie Get Laid
Everyone loves those crazy British with 
their sexual farces. From Monty Python to Win
ston Churchill, the English mind is full of witty 
and topical stories relating to sex. And Sammy 
and Rosie Get Laid is one of them.
Set in east London, this film directed by 
Stephen Frears details the hves of a newlywed 
couple and the stolid politician in-law who is 
staying with them. Wackiness ensues as the 
couple begins to reacquaint themselves with their 
uninhibited, artsy friends. Shashi Kapoor, 
Frances Barber and some other unknowns on this 
side of the pond play the farcical story with an 
outrageous flair.
At 6, 8,10pm and midnight.
Friday, September 16
Whats Eating Gilbert Grape
Everyone loves those crazy small town 
residents and their deep, meaningful relation
ships with artsy, uninhibited strangers. From 
Deliverence to Winesburg, OH, the small towners 
are always trying to fight the encroaching tech
nology and battle the boredom inherent in their 
environment. And Whats Eating Gilbert Grape 
shows this quite nicely.
Starring Johnny Depp as the deep, morose 
teenager, and Julliette Lewis as the bra-only-onSundays kind of girl, this movie tells the story of 
the hardships of young Gilbert Grape (Depp). 
Gilbert has an overweight mother. Gilbert has a 
mentally retarded brother (admirably played by 
Leonardo DiCapprio). Gilbert is followed by a 
horny housewife. Gilbert has problems.
How he succeeds at combating these prob
lems is the crux of the story. Its a pleasant movie 
with just enough cheese to make it digestible. 
While not a wonderful film, itll do for a Friday 
night.
At 5, 7:30,10pm, and 12:30am
Saturday, September 17
The Paper
This wonderful documentary moves the 
viewer through time in an exhaustive search for 
the origins of paper as we know it. From papyrus 
on the Nile to the graceful folds of Origami, The 
Paper shows us the majesty and wonder of mans 
greatest creation.
Actually, The Paper is an almost-life-like 
portayal of exactly one day in the life of a news
paper. Theres humor and stress as reporters 
battle it out to see who will get the front page 
with the largest headline. Michael Keaton does a 
good job in this one. This is a must see for every
one, especially if you are interested in ever work
ing on a newspaper.
6, 8,10 pm, and midnight
Sunday, September 18
Blood of Dracula
Everyone loves those wacky vampires and 
the uninhibited, bohemian girls they chain to 
walls. From Bram Stoker to Tom Cruise, those 
crazy vampires are always trying to have a good 
time.
This movie, starring (for some reason)
John Carradine, powerfully describes the role of a 
vampire in modern-day society. The symbolism 
and style are similar to that of the French. Any
way, this is a movie about vampires. Thats about 
it. Theres Dracula and he has some blood and 
there you have it: Blood of Dracula.
At 6, 8,10pm and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
By DAN GOLDWASSER
4n7one 3onyyk7got7
If you were to ask anyone who 
knows me, they would say that I 
am not a drinker.
It has nothing to do with the 
legal issue, its just that I dont 
like the taste of beer.
So, it was more out of curiosity 
than out of the divine search for 
the ultimate way to get plastered 
that I decided to read 42t wcmT
jhtot lccU cy ltt7 17geUge 
Wnmt, by Griscom, Rand, and 
Johnston.
Let me start by saying that it 
was most intriguing. Games rang
ing from Beer 99 (a devious 
card game) to Beer Hunter (a 
form of Russian Roulette) fill this 
144-page book, and the laughs  
although not constantdo exist 
within the book.
Mixed into the pages are anec
dotes, how to lists, and humor
ous commentary regarding beer 
and its appeal in society.
Most striking is the first page, 
which shows a photograph of the 
interior of a car wreck, with a 
bold headline Dont be stupid, 
and warns against driving drunk.
Putting that sobering message 
aside (by turning the page) one 
can get on with the book and, if 
they so choose, get soused, plas
tered, corked, lit-up, scuppered, 
bent out of shape, trashed,
plowed, wiped out or just plain 
drunk.
The book has a section on PresiFord through Clinton downing a 
beer. Famous quotations relat
ing to beer are spattered among
5MI P'gSKIfI o''W 'B oIIe NeKAWKARUD funny whether or not you drink. 
It's a good resource for drinking games.
dents, and has conveniently got the pages. Whether its from 
photos of all the presidents from Shakespeare or Washington Irv
ing, youre bound to find a quote 
that you will want to put in your 
plan file.
Another section, disguised as a 
series of classes one would take 
in school (Sociology 125 ltt7 o2t 
3cagnh fbs7ganeoI talks about the 
dos and donts of beer drinking 
life.
Of course, the inevitable topic 
 vomiting  does spew forth 
every now and then.
The games in the book are split 
up by Boot Factor.
Boot One is where you have the 
lowest potential for tossing your 
cookies. Boot Five will inevitably 
result in your lunch reappearing 
in front of you.
Adhesively attached to the in
side back cover is an Official 
Boot Five Game Accessory  a 
barf bag.
But, no need to worry. Even if 
you are not a drinker (such as 
myself) you will find this book 
amusing, although the $8.95 re
tail price may seem a bit steep.
After making a lot of phone 
calls, I was a bit dissapointed to 
find out that 42t wcmjhtot lccU 
cy ltt7 17geUge Wnmt, is not 
available at a bookstore in the 
CMU area.
If you really want to get the 
book, you can send $8.95 plus 
$2.00 postage to Mustang Pub
lishing, P.O. Box 3004, Memphis, 
TN 38173.
Independent cinema makes a successful comeback
By VLADIMIR LABEEKOVSKY
4n7one &begc7 3onyyk7got7
Although for some it may seem far-fetched to talk about something 
called American cinema (...but there is no such thing!), in recent 
years an interesting movement has come to the surface. Apart from 
the cynic genre pose of a Tarantino and the affectionate genre pose 
of the Coen brothers, a new kind of independent cinema is being 
made. Although they can probably be traced as far back as the 60s, 
Mmt7ganen films are (like Disco, but less tragically) making a 
comeback.
These are films that can only be set in the States, they examine 
and question values and aesthetics characteristic of the American 
culture, quite a few of them are constructed around the road-film 
narrative and again quite a few of them can strike a chord that is 
really close to home. Some of the newest directors participating in 
this movement are Allison Anders (Gas, iccD fcDge), Michael 
Steinberg (lcDgt,p ut,o P :cogce), Richard Linklater (3hnaUt7) and, 
more recently, David Russell (3jneUge o2t :ceUtd being his first 
feature). They could actually be making the New American Cinema 
(forgive my optimism), of course, nobody else is noticing being busy 
as they are making and watching mediocre 90-minute videoclips 
(but thats another story).
3jneUge o2t :ceUtd deals with the problematic encounters Ray 
(Jeremy Davies) has while forced to stay at home over his summer 
vacation. Hes a brilliant pre-med student at MIT whose traits 
include being sexually frustrated and indulging now and then in the
old art of self-gratification (hence the title). Instead of going to a 
prestigious internship at the surgeon generals office, he gets to take 
care of the house and his bedridden mother while his father goes on 
a um ... business trip. Unable to unleash his ever-increasing libido 
with young neighbor Nicky, he eventually goes Oedipal and from 
then on traumatic mayhem begins.
The real accomplishment of this film is taking a story like this and 
making it a fun and (oh, gosh!) sensitive coming-of-age tale without 
being either overly dark, exploitative or cheesy (believe me, thats an 
accomplishment). Its hard to find a director capable of infusing just 
the right amount of cynicism into a story, and Russell did just that. 
Even though the movie at some points suffers from the unnecessary 
angles and overdone motifs typical of most film debuts, Russell 
shows a keen ability at directing actors and (and even rarer thing) 
an intelligent observant eye for character situations.
As the troubled Ray, Jeremy Davies is definitively a find; he gets 
every flinch and intonation of his character just right. You can 
clearly see that you know this guy; you have seen him before walking 
through your neighborhood. Davies delivers the most difficult char
acter in the movie with almost suspicious ease. He is certainly one 
to watch.
3jneUge o2t :ceUtd ends by saying that deliverance lies within 
yourself (then again this could be a totally off reading), a statement 
common of this kind of film. Its a shame that Americas subtlest 
dissectors get only limited release.
3jneUge o2t :ceUtd kghh st jhndge no Sgoo,sb72 ighmmnUt7, no 
o2t ibhoce o2tnot7p Dckeocke o27cb2 3tjotmst7 QKv
Museum depicts Warhols life through his art, paintings
WARHOL, from page L9
and wallop than a complete run 
of the tk Bc7U 4gmt, on micro
film, [his] work provides an in
stantly intelligible chronicle of 
what mattered most to people, 
from the suicide of Marilyn Mon
roe to the ascendency of Red 
China.
The fifth floor, aptly titled, Sil
ver Factory, 1960s, marks 
Warhols entry into the psyche
delic sixties. The walls of the 
entryway between the two main 
galleries lined with his multi-col
ored wck wallpaper, I immedi
ately felt as if I had entered a 
time zone 30 years past.
Imagine my shock upon enter
ing the first gallery and being hit 
on the head with a bunch of flying 
silver balloons. However, with the 
help of a small newspaper pro
vided by the Pittsburgh Dance 
Council, I soon learned that the 
balloons were all part of the 
Rainforest Exhibit. On temporary 
display until October 30, 1994 
the exhibit is a collaboration of 
Merce Cunning-hams choreog
raphy, David Tudors music, Jas
per Johns costumes, and Andy 
Warhols 3gh"t7 whcbD,v
The presentation consists of a 
continuously running videotape 
of the original 1968 dance perfor
mance, as well as a small gallery 
devoted to the 3gh"t7 whcbD, en
vironment  a collection of he
lium-filled mylar pillows, pro
pelled by a small circular fan lo
cated near the ceiling of the 
entryway, which float about the 
room to the tape-recorded sounds 
of a natural rainforest.
Also present on this floor are 
his 1g,n,ot7,p probably the most
pyschologically disturbing of his 
works. These paintings, in which 
he reproduced newspaper photo
graphs of subjects ranging from 
car wrecks and suicides to a pub
lic execution, reflect both his im
mense fascination and concern 
with death.
The fourth floor, called Enter
prise: The 1970s, presents some 
of the more artistically ambitious 
paintings of his career; in his 
:nc,p 3Ubhh, and fn,o 3bjjt7p 
he demonstrates varied political 
and religious opinions.
To my surprise, I learned from 
one of the panels that 
Catholocism held a 
heavy influence in 
Warhols life, due at 
least in part to the influ
ence of his mother; for 
much of his life, he at
tended his neighbor
hood church, St. Vincent 
Ferrer, daily and con
tinued to make chari
table contributions 
through the Church of 
Heavenly Rest.
The third floor con
tains a wall on which is 
mounted covers from 
eot7"gtk, a magazine 
which Warhol founded in 1969; it 
contains unedited conversations 
with film celebrities.
This floor is primarily dedi
cated, however, to the Archives 
Study Center, the core of which is 
devoted to his time capsules; a 
collection of over 600 boxes in 
which the artist collected every
thing from junk mail and gallery 
announcements to diaries and 
taped telephone conversations.
The last gallery floor has been
named Legacy, 1980s. It con
tains collaborations with other 
artists (including his mother), late 
Abstract paintings, neD1gnmceD 
1b,o 32ct,, a series of silkscreen 
paintings to which he added a 
fine layer of actual diamond dust. 
Finally, this floor contains his 
MD,p paintings based on an as
sortment of newspaper and maga
zine advertisements.
Bearing a striking resemblance 
to his work of the early fifties, 
this return to the material which 
brought him both the most suc
cess and harshest criticism lends
I F/OWUI. 1964, has become very popular 
since her death this past year.
an intriguing twist to Warhols 
role as both celebrity and artist. 
Noted Armstrong, To some ex
tent, Andys work is a closed circle 
 which is rather eerie.
The lower level, entitled The 
Underground, holds a coffee shop, 
photo booth, and the Mellon Bank 
Education Resource Center.
According to Armstrong, the 
Education Center should be con
sidered a central part of the 
musuem. Our education pro
grams will be concerned with chil
dren, particularly young people 
on the North Side .... Andy came 
out of a very similar environment, 
where he was able to learn about 
art, in part, because of free Sat
urday classes offered through our 
parent institution, the Carnegie 
Institute.... [We hope to] give 
them a sense of what it is to make 
art, to be industrious, creative, 
and disciplined like Andy.
More than any other figure of 
his time, Andy Warhol challenged 
our way of thinking about art. In 
a way that was daring and yet 
instantly accessible, he reflected 
the contemporary culture of the 
United States, and therefore of a 
world culture that was coming 
more and more under the Ameri
can influence.
Beyond that, by creating art
works that looked indistinguish
able from consumer products such 
as Heinz boxes, Warhol presented 
us with genuine philosophical 
challengeswhich, remarkably 
enough, everybody understood.
M achhnsc7nog"t j7cAtao cy o2t 
wn7etgt e,ogobotp o2t 1gn wteT
ot7 yc7 o2t M7o,p neD 42t MeDd 
5n72ch icbeDnogce yc7 o2t FgT
,bnh M7o,p eavp o2t MeDd 5n72ch 
:b,btm g, hcanotD no __G 
3neDb,Ud 3o7tto ce o2t c7o2 3gDt 
cy Sgoo,sb72v o g, cjte 5tDet,T
Dnd neD 3beDnd y7cm __ nm oc q 
jmp 42b7,Dndp i7gDndp neD 3noT
b7Dnd y7cm __ nm oc H jmp neD g, 
ahc,tD :ceDnd neD 4bt,Dndv WteT
t7nh nDmg,,gce g, X8 yc7 nDbho,p Xyc7 ,tegc7 agogte,p neD X9 yc7 ,obT
Dteo, neD a2ghD7te beDt7 nt 
o27ttv MDmg,,gce g, y7tt oc mtmT
st7, cy o2t wn7etgt e,ogobotv

---------------------------------------------------

............................................................-----------......- - ....-..---..- - 
 .......................................n
phmtm smertexy mf Unaverxal Pasterex  r994 
The Paper, starring Michael Keaton and Robert Duvall, Is showing on Saturday In Doherty Hall 2210.
FILMS
Sammy and Rosie Get Laid will be 
playing in Doherty Hall 2210 this Thurs
day at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Whats Eating Gilbert Grape will play 
Friday in Doherty Hall 2210 at 5, 7:30,10 
pm, and 12:30 am.
The Paper will be shown this Saturday at
6, 8,10 pm, and midnight in Doherty Hall 
2210.
Blood ofDracula is playing Sunday in 
Doherty Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and 
midnight in Doherty Hall 2210.
provides a weekly forum for inquiring into 
the meaning and purpose of life. Regular 
meetings are held Tuesdays at 7 pm in 
room 236 of the Cathedral of Learning. Call 
Dave Weiner at 431 4047 for more informa
tion.
The Eenpo Karate Club meets on Mon
days and Thursdays at 9 pm in Activity 
Room A in the gym. For more information, 
email cd2b, call 862-2151, or subscribe to 
assocs.KenpoJKarate.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in Doherty Hall 1212. For more informa
tion, call 268-2114.
MEETINGSMUSIC
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a nondenominational student study group,
Lucianos is sponsoring instruction in 
cajun and zydeco dancing each first and 
third Monday at 8:30 pm. For more infor
mation, call 281-6877.
River City Brass Band presents Pops- in 
Brass! this Tuesday at Mount Lebanon 
High School, Thursday at Gateway High 
School, and Saturday at Palace Theater.
All shows are at 8 pm. For more informa
tion, call 322-RCBB.
RELIGION
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy cel
ebrates Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm 
in room 224 of the Student Center, Monday 
through Friday. Weekend Masses are 
celebrated at 10:30 am, and 8 pm every 
Sunday in Posner Hall. For more informa
tion, call the Newman Oratory Center at 
681-3181.
Hillels Jewish University Center, 4551 
Forbes Avenue, atop Cafe Arabica, cel
ebrates Shabbat with good food, good 
friends, and good times at 6 pm. Call 621- 
8875 for more information or email hc89.
SPORTS
The women's soccer team will compete 
in an away match against Allegheny Col
lege on Wednesday at 5 pm and in a home 
match against Washington University on 
Saturday at 5:30 pm.
The men's soccer team will play an away 
match with University of Pittsburgh 
Wednesday at 7:15 pm and at home Satur
day at 3 pm against Washington Univer
sity.
The men's and women's cross country 
teams have an away meet against Indiana 
University of Pa on Saturday at 11 am.
The football team has an away game on 
Saturday against Rhodes College at 1:30 
pm.
The women's volleyball team will play 
at University of Pittsburgh-Johnstown on 
Tuesday at 7:30 pm and in the Marietta 
College Tournament Friday and Saturday.
The women's tennis team has away 
matches on Saturday against Gannon 
University at 9 am and Mercyhurst College 
at 3 pm.
The men's tennis team will play in an 
away match on Friday against Allegheny 
College at 10 am and on Saturday against 
Gannon University at 10 am and 
Mercyhurst College at 3 pm.
NOTICES
The Visiting Writer Series presents 
Nahid Rachlin, and Iranian novelist and 
short story writer, on Friday at 8pm in the 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall. For more 
information, call Hilary Masters at 268- 
6643.
CRY OUT! ACT UP, a lesbian, gay, and 
bisexual action group, will meet at 7:30 pm 
next Wednesday, September 21, at First , 
Unitarian Church, Morewood and 
Ellsworth.
Student Environmental Action Coali
tion and the Political Speakers Forum 
Board are sponsoring a lecture by Captain 
Paul Watson, founder of the Sea Shepherd 
Conservation Society, on Tuesday, 9/ 27, at 
8 pm in Doherty Hall 2210.
Pittsburgh Space is sponsoring a NASA 
Film Showing tentatively scheduled for 
Saturday, Septmeber 17 at 1 pm in room 
207 of the Student Center. Please call 421- 
6336 to receive the confirmed information.
See samples and learn tips from local 
clothiers at Dress for Success programs in 
room 210 of the Student Center tonight, 
women from 4:30-5:15 pm and men from 
5:30-6:15 pm.
Submit Calendar and Vox Populi 
announcements! Email to gh27, 
call the Tartan at 268-2111, or 
mail to: The Tartan, Box 17, 
Carnegie Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Deadline 
for submissions is Wednesday 
at 5 pm.
To that wild curly-haired guy, Why are you cutting your locks? They drive me wild.
Hey, Hubba Hubba, You're my one and only 
Snuggleuffagus.
Neiberg, suck back on that. Go blue!
From, Chick on the ball.
To all those Jyhad players: you guys are sweet.
You know, you look just like that mouse from 
that cartoon thing...
Thanks to Rho Chis, Janine, Lisa, Lori, Loretta 
for an awesome Rush!
G. Physics nothing  I think I'm in love.
No, really, I mean it.
Well, that may be too strong, but you know, I 
mean, well, never mind. I'm too shy, dammit.
Lawrenceville is the shit. Density rocks.
JMR&ABF
Don't hate me because I'm beautiful...
(there are other reasons to hate me).
Chris,
Follow your heart!
Gosh I really love you and your butterfly ...
Vox Populi
Voice of the people
SUMMER'S OVER.
Thank goodness there's Advil. Advanced medicine for pain'."
Advil contains ibuprofen. Use only as directed. 01994 Whitehall Laboratories, Madison.NJ.
Pain reliever/Fever reducer 
INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief of
m,r|or aches and pains associated with tne 
common cold, headache, toothache, mus 
aches, backache, for the minor paw 
oj arthritis, for the pain of menstrual 
arnPs, and for reduction of fever.H
