THE TARTAN
Volume 87, Issue 5Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania28 September 1992
Stroke! Stroke! Stroke!
ter/ Tartan Photographer
CMU Crew Mens Lightweight boat 4 A with coxswain rows into ninth place in the Head of the Ohio 
Regatta last Saturday. CMU Crew entered eight boats and competed with 13 other schools.
Smoking resolution passes
Volumo eo87,eumo, loI e7s7m, 5l ,s5Coa,
By BETH MacDONALD
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Last week Student Senate passed an amended form of the recently proposed smoking resolution. In the hope of being fair to non-smokers and smokers alike, the revised proposal now contains three main points. The first section bans smoking from student organization offices. The second section permits smoking at indoor activities sponsored by the student organizations that receive funding from the Student Activities Fee, but only if everyone consents, and only if the smoke will not affect any designated smoke free locations. The last section recommends that Campus Police be required to fine all smoking policy violators a minimum of $10.; The differences between this amended resolution and the original resolution, proposed by H&SS Senator Josh Knauer on September 8, are subtle. The first version of the bill prohibited smoking from indoor student organizations, without exception. The bill also recommended that Campus Police be empowered to levy a $50 fine against all violators of the smoking policy. More controversially, the resolution also originally recommended that the University ban smoking in all campus buildings, including academic buildings, dining areas, and all other indoor areas that are used by students. This last recommendation was dropped entirely from the amended resolution before it was passed.Paragraph three of CMUs official Policy on Smoking reads: Any enclosed workarea (i.e. work area with floor to ceiling walls) occupied by more than one person may be designated as a smok
ing area by the occupants only if such an area is occupied exclusively by smokers and provided that it is feasible to do so without affecting other smoke-free locations in the immediate area or in connected areas.Before the new resolution by Senate, smoking had been tolerated in student office space and meeting space under paragraph three of CMUs smoking policy, if all of the students sharing the space at that particular time agreed. The Senate resolution now prohibits any and all smoking in such spaces.Senator Erik Altmann (SCS), who authored the amendments, said ofthe resolution, One ofthe specific problems that this was meant to address was that we had guys lighting up, like in the Senate office when no one was around, which they were entitled to do then, but when someone else comes in an hour later, you have all this smoke hanging around and its ugly. Applications of the second part of the resolution, prohibiting smoking from indoor events sponsored by Senate-funded organizations unless everybody agrees to permit smoke, has a few gray areas. For instance, if a club decides to rent Panther Hollow Inn for a night, then there could conceivably be no smoking permitted in the bar. In another case, a student organization may have a band come to play music at Scotland Yard. If that organization receives any money from the Activities Fee, and not everyone agrees to permit smoking, then it is automatically a nonsmoking event. Not only do the members of the club or organization have to unanimously permit smoking at their event, but that is also true for any guest that
Inside
^lassineds................Comics..........................................15..................L6Diversions................................Lll..................LIForum..............................................6Sports............................................11Calendar......................................14VoxPopuli...................................14
 Columnist has been posessed by the demons of the right.
See page 10.
0 Did mens soccer win or lose? Only we know for sure.
See page 11.
 Everything you wanted to know about campus sports (but were afraid to ask).
See page 11.
 Confused by campus bureaucracy? All your questions will be answered.
See page LI.
 Wonder what President Mehrabian thinks?
See page L5.
 A review of Billy Crystals new Mr. Saturday Night.
See page L13.
Ruth Rasmussen/ 
Tartan Asst. Forum Editor 
Harpers Bazaar presents fashion 
and photography in an exhibition 
celebratingthe magazines 125th 
anniversary. Story on page Lll
Senate approves 
Intl Festival funding
might show up at the event.The recommendation to Campus Police requiring them to issue fines to those people who violate the smoking policy could do the most to protect the rights of non-smokers. Altmann said, Enforcement is the biggest problem on campus. The signs already posted around campus that promise a $50 fine are supposed to be enforced by the Pittsburgh Police and not Campus Police. His reasons for recommending that this power, accompanied by a lower fine, be given to Campus Police are to make enforcement more realistic and plausible.Altmann said, If the city of Pittsburgh wants to come in and issue $50 fees then thats fine, but theyre never going to, and so the question is how we can enforce this.Altmann opposed the first draft of the resolution because it set a $50 fine, rather than the $10 fine it now includes. The wording of the resolution has also been changed, from Campus Police being empowered to being required to issue fines. Altmann said Senate wanted to get it so that CMU police actually feel comfortable assigning fees to people, and also we wanted to keep the minimum fine fairly low and realistic. This recommendation may or may not be acted upon by Campus Polce. Michael Murphy, dean of Student Affairs, did tell Senate that he would give us a progress report on whatever they negotiate with the police about the situation, according to Altmann.The original statement banning smoking from all campus buildings was not included in the final draft of the resolution. However, the fight to make dining halls 
Please see SMOKING, page 4
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Student Senate approved the Office of Student Affairs request for $3,000 in funding for this years International Festival by a vote of 9-1-8 in last Tuesdays meeting. Aliya Khan, coordinator of the International Festival, was denied the original request for $5,000 because Senates Funding & Recognition Committee voted to deny the request of $2,000 in printing costs, as the material printed for last years Asian Festival was ... wasted and just generally not wisely utilized, according to Senator Michael Tomblyn(MCS).Khan proposed the remaining $3,000 to help fund a speech given by the Secretary Gendecision of Senate.According to Murphy, the total cost of the International Festival is about $75,000, of which $50,000 is funded directly from President Robert Mehrabians budget. The balance is covered by organizations such as Student Senate, the Graduate Student Organization, Activities Board, Scotland Yard, Dining Service, and even the University of Pittsburgh. Khan said last year, the International Festival did not ... get as many student organizations [involved] because planning wasstarted in lateStudent Senate is supportive of the 
Latin American Festival... but this 
does not mean Senate should rob 
money from student groups to help 
the administration pay for [it].
r GSIA Senator Michael Loomis
eral of the Organization of the American States in addition to a concert.Last year, Student Senate had explicitly stated that it did not want Senate funding of the International Festival to be a trend. The return of this issue has angered some Senators. Senator Erik Altmann (SCS), who voted no in the funding vote, said the Student Activities Fee is an enabling fee, in which $3,000 could fund six new [student] groups ... These groups would not have any other place to go.Senator Michael Loomis (GSIA) said, Student Senate is supportive of the Latin American Festival and wishes to do what it can to make it a success, but this does not mean Student Senate should rob money from student groups to help the administration pay for [it]. Every student should understand that when Student Senate contributes a dollar towards an administrations activity, that is a dollar less for Senate to give to student groups. Michael Murphy, dean of Student Affairs, said his major concern was the Student Senates endorsement, and not necessarily funding. He affirms that not getting funding from Student Senate would be fine. He said Student Affairs will always go to student organizations like the Graduate Student Organization and the Activities Board for more co-sponsorship. Well always respect the
March. Organization and planning for this years festival started as far back as last October.Khan has made some important changes to tho festival since last year to got more studentsactive in multi-cultural awaronoss. Forty-seven countries will bo represented in this years Caribbean and Latin American Festival, ranging from Argentina to the Windward Islands. Also, a major change for the students benefit is loss lectures, more activities, such as dances and a pifiata- making contest. Most events will start at 4 pm instead of last years 11 am to make thoso activities more available to the Carnegie Mellon community.Throughout the International Festival, participants can attend personal journeys, which are defined as an informal talk given by a student, faculty, staff, or community member on an [international] topic of his/her choice. According to Khan, Students will get the opportunity to talk to somebody from other countries.Kelly Walter, a senior art major and student coordinator of the International Festival, has engendered more student interest by forming two committees. The decoration/publicity committee designs posters and signs and also gets the word out to the CMU community. The information committee consists of a representative from each of the 47 Caribbean and Latin American countries, who will participate in the Information Fair on October 22. There students can visit each booth and talk to international students about the countries they 
Please see INTERNATIONAL, page 5Vmngolm uim7M7,s oli5nau8og 
um olM7a5lsolmue Uao,olmum75l
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
Tartan Staffwriter
This semester, with the November 3 election just a few weeks away, Carnegie Mellon has been hard hit by the latest trend on campus  political and environmental activists trying to persuade students to just get involved.But is this just a passing fad?Not according to Denis Hayes, the founder of Earth Day. While speaking on campus last Tuesday, he advised his audience to join the growing numbers of students involved in politics if they are to have any hope of influencing the future of their country.In a talk organized by the Heinz School, Student Pugwash, and The Political Speakers Forum Board, the internationally recognized environmentalist stressed that most major environmental decisions made in your lifetime will be made in the next 1 Oyears. In order to influence these decisions, he said, students must become politically active.While he was at Harvard, Hayes planned the first Earth Day with an eye to attracting students and middle-class Americans, particularly those who dont customarily attend political or environmental events. We mobilized a constituency that until then was untapped, said Hayes.As a result of this outreach attempt, over 20 million people around the country came to the
first Earth Day on April 22,1970, making it a phenomenal success that politicians had no choice but to notice.With the momentum from Earth Day, the environmental movement unseated seven of the most powerful anti-environmental congressmen whom the environmentalists called the Dirty Dozen.^In terms of numbers, the environmental movement was unstoppable, said Hayes.Hayes thinks that the success of the first Earth Day can be repeated if more students work for incremental, not revolutionary, environmental and political change.The renowned activist advised his audience to get involved. Get organized ... The election isnt the end; its the beginning. As a student, you have more discretionary time at your disposal than at any other time in your life ... Youre a huge potential resource. Not just your votes, but what you can do. Its incredible.However, Carnegie Mellon political science professor Patrick Stroh thinks that most students are still uninterested in politics.Generationally, students are one ofthe most cynical groups.... They dont know the issues; they dont know how to influence the system, so they just forget it, Stroh said.In general, said Stroh, Students are apathetic, not registered to vote, and have competing demands on their time.The Times Mirror Center for the People and Press, a media group, seconds Strohs evaluation, criticizing todays youth as a generation that knows less, cares less, votes less and is less critical of its leaders and institutions than young people in the past.Census Bureau data seem to bear out this analysis. Not only does the 1990 census show overall voter participation dropping precipitously since 1972, the numbers reveal that the decrease is most marked among voters aged 18 to 24.A report released last year by People for the American Way appears to substantiate this trend. It stated that there is a citizenship crisis in which Americas youth are alarmingly ill-prepared to keep democracy alive. Some student political activists disagree. Julie Harris, a Columbia University student who worked on Michael Dukakis 1988 presidential campaign and was a delegate at the Democratic National Convention in July, believes that students are becoming more active, although often in local ways.According to Harris, Political systems respond to young people with energy to spare.... Students can sometimes relate better to a local issue than a more abstract national idea. If you pursue a local issue, you can see the effect 
Please see ACTIVISM, page 4

---------------------------------------------------

2vto vuamul y Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosSoa p11h
Volumo 5Cu9, loI muwo,
WASHINGTON, September 25 (DJ)  The Senate, on a 59-34 vote, stood behind two taxes on the wealthy that are opposed by President Bush.The measures phase out the ability of wealthy individuals to take advantage of the personal exemption and the itemized deductions. Current law calls for those provisions to sunset in 1997 and 1995, respectively.The $32.5 billion tax bill pending in the Senate would instead make them permanent. Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole (R-Kan.) said Bush will veto any bill that includes the permanent extension of those taxes.Its a very sensitive issue for the President of the United States, particularly with some sixty days before the election, Dole said.The phase out of the personal exemption applies to joint filers making $160,000 annually. For itemized deductions, the phase out is $105,000 for joint filers. Dole had proposed to strike the provisions from the bill, as well as scale back a planned expansion of the Individual Retirement Account.
Regulation emerges as campaign issue
WASHINGTON, September 25 (DJ)  When President George Bush campaigned in Michigan recently, he warned that Bill Clintons plans for environmental regulation would cripple the auto industry and maim small businesses. Put a freeze on unnecessary federal regulation, the President shouted to cheering supporters. Were regulating ourselves to death!But when Democrat A1 Gore spoke at a similar rally, he said the problem with regulation today is the way the Bush administration drafts rules in secret to unfairly help business fat cats. Big business has a back door into the White House, Clintons running mate declared. It is a technique to allow the biggest polluters in this country to hotwire the regulatory process.As the heated rhetoric suggests, the stodgy subject of regulation has emerged as a sharp-edged campaign issue, and for ample reason, The Wall 
Street Journal reported. There are clear differences between the way Bush and Clinton administrations would operate the governments vast regulatory apparatus, which touches every home and workplace and costs the American economy tens of billions a year by some calculations. Those differences are made even sharper by the vice presidential candidates: Gore, who has written a book
P5l8ao,, uUUa5Mo, loI 
n,,7ul u7g UuiCu8o
calling the environment mankinds greatest challenge, and Dan Quayle, who has called regulation one of the countrys greatest enemies.Moreover, with a giant budget deficit limiting any Presidents ability to launch new programs, regulation could be one of the most important differences between a Clinton and a Bush presidency. With Democrats promising a more activist government, even moderate Democrats agree there would be more health and environmental regulation under a President Clinton. The Arkansas governor also promises, though, some new twists to lighten the burden on business. And he would radically reshape Quayles regulation-thwarting White House Council on Competitiveness. Bush, meanwhile, promises an all-out assault on regulation by extending his moratorium on new rules for one year and beginning a review to weed out old regulations. Bush aides are planning to introduce sunset procedures, under which many regulations would automatically die after a time. And Bush is currently allowing the Competitiveness Council to grow in power and stature.Some forces at work after the election will water down the stark differences now suggested by campaign rhetoric. N otwithstanding Bushs tough talk, regulation would almost surely grow in a second
Bush term, as it did in the first, according to some analyses. Thats because a large number of the costly provisions of the Clean Air Actpushed by Bush  are scheduled to kick in, and rolling back regulations takes nearly as much time and paperwork as creating new ones. And its wrong to simply assume that either candidate would govern the way he campaigns. Bush, despite his current rhetoric and a deregulatory role he held in the Reagan administration, launched some ofthe most costly regulatory programs in U.S. history during the first two years of his term, reversing a downward trend in regulatory costs that had begun under President Carter. Besides the Clean Air Act, he pushed through new health-care regulations, laws guaranteeing access for the disabled to public facilities, and some tougher financial rules on the heels of the savings-and-loan mess.Clinton, who promotes a host of new programs to toughen environmental standards, bowed to the poultry and timber industries in Arkansas when they objected to rules they said would cost jobs. Then again, as President, Clinton might feel the strongest pressure from the opposite direction: union and environmental advocates within his party eager to see their agendas enacted after 12 years out of the White House.
| WASHINGTON, September 25 (DJ)  A House-Senate conference committee approved compromise Russian aid legislation that would implement the U.S. share of a broader $24 billion aid plan backed by the Group ;of Seven major industrial nations.; Significantly, the panel agreed ;to put the proposed $12 billion ;U.S. contribution to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) ;on a two-track legislative process. But committee members did not indicate any concern that the two-track processfavored by Sen. Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.) 
i would endanger final congressional approval of the long- sought increase in IMF resources.This is really the basic blueprint for how we will deal with the republics of the Commonwealth of Independent States, said Sen. Richard Lugar (R-Ind.), Absent this, we really are silent on the relationship."Among other things, the package would endorse U.S. participation in a ruble stabilization fund, clear nwuy Cold War-ora legislative burriors that impede government lending to the republics, authorize extension of agricultural credits, and expand
the use of American assistance in disarming Russia and other republics. U.S. officials consider the measure essential as a political statement of support for Russian President Boris Yeltsin, who directly appealed to Congress for help.The package contains restrictions on the Bush administration that generally hinge aid on a sustained Russian commitment to democracy, human rights, and weapons non-proliferation. It also includes language requiring the President to certify that significant progress is being made in withdrawing the 120,000 troops located in the Baltic states.Any administration tries to fight against any restrictions," said Ambassador Richard Armitage, who is coordinating the State Departments aid to the commonwealth. But all in all, were pleased.Lawmakers said they expect the House and Senate to vote on the package next week.Before the IMF funds are given final approval, however, both the House and Senate will have to approve the foreign operations spending bill, which includes the actual appropriation ofthe quota
LoI S55C aoloI, 4aulP5lmau ueeo8um75l,
WASHINGTON, September 25 (DJ)  A newly published account of the Iran-Contra affair suggests that President Bush became an important advocate for resuming the sale of U.S. arms to Iran at a crucial juncture in the operation in the summer of 1986, The 
Wall Street Journal reported.Written by former Air Force Major General Richard Secord, the book draws on Secords conversations with an Israeli governmentofficial who briefed Bush -------------------------that July in Jerusalem regarding the initiative. Frustrated by Tehrans performance, the U.S. hadadopted an all-or-nothing stance on future hostage transactions.Israel, meanwhile, hoped to persuade the White Houseto relax its standard and ________________pursue sales linking the re- lease of specific hostages to reciprocal shipments.Written notes from the Jerusalem meeting show that the then-vice president made no commitments at the time. But Secord quotes Amiram Nir, the Israeli official, as saying, Things couldnt have turned out better ... Bush was very attentive, very interested. In fact, immediately after the vice president returned to Washington to meet with President Ronald Reagan, the White House altered its position, and further sales were pursued. Since the President had been so adamant before, Secord writes, Nirs briefing must have been a doozy, moving Bush from note taker to advocate. Secords account is detailed in his book, Honored and
Betrayed, covering his long military career and subsequent role in carrying out the secret weapon sales and supplying arms to U.S.-backed insurgents in Nicaragua. Both operations were run from the White House and though Bush has denied knowing of the covert dealings with the Nicaraguan Contras at the time, Secord said he believed the vice presidents staff was more aware of the operation than has been admitted.
"The euphoria over [86 hostage releases], 
coupled with the Israeli briefing, caused 
Reagan to jump back on the lets-free-thehostages  bandwagon. 
r Major General Richard Secord
Nir, who was reported killed in a plane crash in Mexico in 1989, had been an adviser on counterterrorism to Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres. And he emerges in the Iran-Contra affair as an important intermediary between Jerusalem and the White House.Secord describes himself as having been on friendly terms with the Israeli and Secord said they continued to meet secretly in Europe after the operation became public in late-1986. He said that Nir described to him detailed notes and tapes recording elements of the affair and the general criticized the Israeli government for stonewalling and failing to make this evidence public.A White House spokesman called the
charges outrageous and said they were designed merely to sell more books.Though he described himself as supporting Bush in his re-election campaign, Secords account raises potential problems for th President. Bush has sought to distance himself from the Iran-Contra affair, but notes uncovered since 1988 appear to contradict the Presidents claim that he wasnt aware that Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger and Secretary of State George Shultz were vigorously opposed to the Iran initiative. Indeed, the Secord book suggests the vice president was used by th Israelis to encourage the sales.The July 1986 brief- ingtookplacejustdays after the release of Lawrence Jenco, a Catholic priest who had been captured the previous year.The euphoria over that, coupled with the Israeli briefing, caused Reagan to jump back on the lets-free-the-hostages bandwagon, Secord said in an interview yesterday. Nothing in the book contradicts Bushs claim that he didnt know that profits from the sales were being used to circumvent a ban on U.S. funding for the Contras.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc.Layout by 
Kendrick Chua
,,7oa
f A cax
7, l5I uiioUm7l8 ,nSs7,,75l,
drop off at the tartan office, skibo 50 
in care of michael gabriel
fiction, non-fiction, poetry
submissions should include title, authors name, 
and phone number

---------------------------------------------------

vto vuamul y Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosoSoa p11hHVmngolm Volumo b7lnmo,
STUDENT
SENATE
Minutes of 22 September 1992Roll was taken at 7:05 pm. Meeting called to order at 7:15 pm.
Senators Present: Albert (CFA), Altmann (CS), DeRoss (MCS), Dean (IM), Engel (CIT), Evans (CIT), Halvaksz (HSS), Haverkamp (CIT), Holzman (CIT), Kline (MCS), Knauer (HSS), Knight (MCS), Loomis (GSIA), McGarvey (IM), Martin (HSS), Potthast (HSS), Robe (GSIA), Shah (M.at L.), Singh (CFA), Tomblyn (MCS), Wall- hauser (M. at L.).
Senators Absent: Ely (SCS), Gaspari (CFA), Hummel (CIT), Kraje (Heinz), Moore (MCS), Spaulding (CFA), Sung (GSIA), Trudwig (MCS), Way (Heinz).
Ex-Officios Present: Papa (AB), Potthast (SDC), Bareford (Greek Council), Dean Murphy, Laefer (Treasurer).
Ex-Officios Absent: Larson (GSO), Gesmond (President), Assistant to the Dean Tim Foster (Student Affairs).
Approval of the Minutes:Minutes accepted.
Special Business:
Special Allocation: Latin American Festival, $3000.Purpose: $1500 to bring speaker, $1500 for live music.Motion to table passed by acclamation. Vote to table fails (7 9-2).Vote for allocation passed (9 1-8).
Audience Participation:None.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Mike 
Tomblyn): No report.
Campus Affairs (Eric 
Altmann): Food for Thought last week was successful. An ad in next weeks Tartan will list all of the suggestions made. Letters were sent to all departments about which suggestions were made. Improvements to the poster policy are being worked on.
Funding and Recognition 
(Michael Loomis): Sample constitutions for funded and nonfunded groups are now being written. Voices United Gospel Choir violated Senate bylaws against funding of religious groups; they will become nonfunded soon. Budget Planning Session meetings will be held October 1 and 5; any organizations which would like to be considered should send a representative. Budget hearings run from October 7 until November 5.
Human Resources (Moneet 
Singh): Everyone is encouraged to sign up for the Skills for Leadership workshop on October 3.
Public Relations (Shawn 
Knight): Campus Affairs is commended for doing a great job on Food for Thought. All suggestions made will be in this weeks Tartan. Thanks to Erik Larson for the Joint Executive Branch ad in The Tartan. The vacant Senate seats will be advertised in next weeks Tartan.
Rules (Greg Haverkamp): Meetings are held every Thursday at 8 pm in the Senate office in the Tartan loft.
Ex-Officios Reports:
AB (Brian Papa): Around 1000 people attended De La Soul concert on Friday. The Amazing Jonathan will be playing in the Ballroom on Friday, September 25 at 9 pm; $2 with CMU ID. Sarah Weddington will speak on Friday, October 2 in the Ball
room about Roe us Wade; free. Sarah Weddington will also be speaking at the Leadership seminar on October 3 about leadership. This weeks film are: The 
400 Blows, Thursday 6, 8, 10; 
Waynes World, Friday 5,7,9,11, 1; Angry Red Planet, Saturday 6, 8,10,12.
SDC (Amy Potthast): SDCs budget this year is $66,800. The Housing Committee is talking with Computing about the state of the dorm clusters. Homecoming tickets are on sale October 1; the dance will be Octoberl7 on the Clippership. Kitchens in the dorms are being checked by Housing. There is a new television in Welch.
Greek Council (Christian 
Bareford): 195 units of blood was collected from the Greek- sponsored blood drive from both Greeks and independents. Fraternity Rush ends this Friday with pledging. Rush was up from last year. Delta Gamma sponsors Anchor Clanker on Saturday. Beautiful Eyes contest in this week in front of Doherty Hall. If any organization would like to do a philanthropic event with the Greeks, Emma Gosden is planning a Greek-wide philanthropic event; contact her for details. Members of fraternities will be helping out at the Childrens Hospital Halloween festival.
GSO (Lara Wolison): No report.
Faculty Senate (Dean 
Murphy): The first University Student Affairs Council meeting will be this Thursday at 8 pm.
Student Affairs: Skills for Leadership workshop will be held on October 3. Pittsburgh Horizons is sponsoring a trip to the Pirates game on Sunday at 1:30 pm. Orientation counselor applications are now being taken; they will be accepted through the year on a rolling acceptance basis. The Space Allocation Committee needs people to serve on it.
Correction...
The Tartan corrects 
all known errors of 
fact. If you know of 
such an error, contact 
Tartan Editor-inChief Heidi Hoover at 
x2111, or write her in 
care of The Tartan, 
Skibo 50.
The London Theatre Program
V SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE and the 
BRITISH AMERICAN DRAMA ACADEMY--------------------------------------------------------
A unique opportunity for college students to study 
with Britains leading actors and directors. Acting study 
and performance, supplemented, by academic work. Full 
academic credit is provided for either a semester or a year. 
For details and an application, write:
The London Theatre Program, Box BCMU 
Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, N. Y. pdfd2.
FORbES AVENUE 
below The Attic & Upstage4LOR.3RLB
EST. 1979 13 YEARS STRONG
tt er/Tan/P hogpRaPg urRsamgP
Apgg .gaFsTP
ETrapdrPTgpP
ialgRSRngP
MOdKngTg iORIgpOOd ArRanaTagP 
NKgm GK / 9 00AM -7 00PM S-SN /
VzEP4R3 
VvDBELv OGGE
* BACK-TO-SCHOOL SAVINGS *
'k 
-fckd- OGG 0
^ ik *; 'fc k 'fe 'k *
HURRY!
LIMITED TIME OFFER PR33 vOBRY ~2Hd1dd
President (Natalie Ges
mond): There will be a meeting Wednesday at 5 pm in the Tartan Loft area (outside the student government office) for all people interested in being involved with Student Government Project and Advisory Committees. I encourage anyone interested to come
by-Treasurer (Jay Laefer): $31,000 was spent in allocation last year. So far this year, we have spent $3000.
Chair (MattMcGarvey): Resignation of Senator J. Gaspari (CFA).
Old Business:Amendment of the smoking policy: [please see sidebar on 
page 4]
New Business:Senator Holzman moved to change the status of Voices United Gospel Choir from funded to nonfunded.Senator Tomblyn moved to postpone discussion of the status ofthe United Voices Gospel Choir until next week. This passed by acclamation.Senator Tomblyn moved to make Yamam Fadl a member at large from MCS. This motion to accept was passed by acclamation.
Points of Discussion:Discussion at this weeks meeting included the status of the United Voices Gospel Choir; the number of abstentions on Senate votes; election board for fall elections; the poster policy; posting of the minutes on electronic and manual bulletin boards.
Announcements:Elections will be held November 9 and 10. The election board
will form by the end ofthe month.Amnesty International will have a petition table outside of Doherty Hall on Wednesday.The SDC movie this week is 
Medicine Man on Saturday night.Campus Affairs meetings are held at 6:30 pm on Tuesdays in the Tartan Loft.Academic Affairs meetings are held Thursdays at 9 pm in the Senate office.Public Relations/Human Resources meetings are held Tuesdays at 6:30 pm in the Tartan Loll.There are four new vacancies (in addition to the vacancies announced last week) on Student Senate: 1 MCS, 1 Heinz, 2 CFAi Petitions for these positions will be collected until October 5.The meeting adjourned at 9:05 pm.
Submitted by 
NAOMI BERNER 
Edited by 
BRENDAN McFEELY
i n11 $3.99 Large 1$2.00 off$5.99 Large i
j Plain PizzaAny LargePlain Pizza1 Everyday with coupon |Gourmet PizzaEveryday with coupon ,
Pick-up onlyPick-up or Deliver)'Delivery or Pick-up
$1.50 offAny Two Whole Hoagies
I
I
Delivery or Pick-up |
Large Plain + ~! 1/2 Italian Hoagie & 2 Cokes I
$9.95 plus tax
$1.50 offany Large Pizza
Delivery or Pick-up
$5.99 Large
Pepperoni Pizza
Delivery Only
2 MedPizzas + 1 topping on eacii for $10.50plus lax
Hawaiian Pizza 
Special
I
il.n plus lax . Delivery or Pick-up i _______Delivery_____1 ;__________________'____I _
$8.95 plus tax 
Delivery
Buy one Pizza get the same size Pizza FREE
Toppings Extra Pick-up only
I Sm White Pizza I & Tossed Salad
J Only $4.99
I Delivery or Pick-up
Free Topping
on any large pizza 
Delivery or Pick-up
f--Please mention coupons upon ordering, 
All coupons expire May 15,1992. 
Coupons not valid with any other offer.Free Delivery
PIZZA OUTLET
687-9555190 N. Craig St.
Class of 93
Sometimes
YouCcm
Believe EMoa9mt7l 
You Hear
AMDP
The Prudentials Advanced Management Development Program has earned a reputation as one of the most challenging and supportive programs for developing business leaders at an accelerated pace. Its a reputation thats well deserved.
Were looking for graduates with a Liberal Arts or Business Information Systems background. If youre a highly motivated exceptional student, we invite you to learn more about us. An equal opportunity employer.
Information Session 
Monday, October 5th at 7:00 P.M.
Hearth Dining Room, College Club 
143 Craig Street
ThePrudential lmh

---------------------------------------------------

kvto vuamul y Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosSoa p11h
Senate passes revised 
smoking resolutionStudent government 
elections approachSMOKING, from page 1and common areas designated smoke free still remains an issue. Altmann said, At some point, I think we will do something about the Tartan [Lounge] because I think the complaints of non- smokers are legitimate, like having to wait in smoke filled checkout lines, and the poor ventilation, or circulation, of air.Altmann expressed his reluctance to let any bill pass that just prohibits smoking in areas like the Kiltie Court without having checked into other options that might be available. Altmann said, The problem is that the Tartan [Grill] is the only indoor, centrally located place where smoking is permitted, and smokers should have that kind of access; and until we can figure out a way people can smoke in that type of situation, I dont think its fair to pass an outright ban on smoking there. He said, We dont want to be fascist about where you can and cant smoke. Many students agree. H&SS sophomore Evie Remaley, when asked about the possibility of a smoking ban in the Kiltie Court, said, I think its an infringement on a persons rights and until they make smoking illegal in this country, then you cant ban smoking in public places.One solution to this is to install a better system of air ventilation and circulation in places like the Kiltie Court, so that the smoke from the smoking section will not spread throughout the entire cafeteria. Concerning ventilation, Altmann said, I think thats one of the main problems, and I dont
know how tough it would be, but if we could figure out how to ventilate ... the [Kiltie Court] better, then I think that would solve a lot of the problems ... that would be the best solution.Altmann said that he wants to wait until Physical Plant and the administration in Warner Hall are consulted about the feasibility of installing a better air system before we pass the resolution, and then we can draft the resolution fairly specifically and actually have some luck of its being implemented. Until then, Altmann does not think that a good solution is necessarily to pack all smokers into some crowded room where smoke doesnt circulate and makes it extra, extra unhealthy.Student sentiment on this resolution has been fairly mixed. Junior art major Terrence Ryan, when asked how he feels about the resolution, said simply, It sucks.Junior acting major Will Penick doubts that Campus Police will be able to enforce the policy. He said, Ive smoked in just about every building on campus, and I never even see Security. Graphic communications sophomore Deena Grinbaum said, I dont smoke so I dont really care, but I dont think that its fair to ban smoking from Skibo because, especially in the winter, there isnt anywhere inside to go and be able to smoke. The resolution does not bother sophomore IM major Ed Meier much either. He said, I smoke, but even now, if someone Im with asks me not to smoke around them, I wont; I respect their rights.
By STEPH STINE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
This semesters Student Senate elections will be held on November 9 and 10.Petitions for both one-semester and two-semes- ter seats will be accepted until late October. Anyone who wants to run for one of these positions can get a petition at the student government office in the Tartan Lounge. Senator Amy Potthast (H&SS) also recommends that these hopefuls should, before even turning in a petition, come to Senate meetings... and speak to Senators currently serving on the committees.As with any Student Senate election, voter participation is a concern. In previous elections, the percentage of eligible voters who actually vote has generally been low. Last falls voter turnout was 8.4 percent. Even the hotly-debated Resolution against Discrimination by ROTC referendum drew only 22.7 percent of the eligible voters at CMU last spring. Consequently, Student Senate is searching for ways to get more CMU students to vote in the elections. Shawn Knight (MCS), Senates Public Relations chair, said, I -will consider my term ... a great success if we can get a much higher percentage of the student body to contribute to elections.Senator Brian S. Engel (CIT) also expressed his concern about the lack of voter turnout. It frustrates me that people can go through anything for four years and not care enough to do the small things to change it. A great way to make a difference, here, is to be on Student Senate. That route is not feasible for all people, but at the very least
you should not only vote, but talk to your Senators about the problems on campus that affect you, said Engel. Senator Josh Knauer (H&SS) agrees, having said, I feel that it is very important for students to get out and express their views on campus issues, whether that be running for a Senate seat or just getting out to vote.Although this semesters Student Senate elections will proceed as usual for the voters, the election framework will be altered; this semesters election board will not be comprised of volunteers but paid employees of Student Senate.Because Student Senates constitution provides that Senate members may not handle election results, an election board was instituted to monitor elections, count votes, and verify that those elected are eligible for the positions for which they were elected.In the past, A Phi O governed Student Senate elections. However, last spring the fraternity announced that it would no longer assume the duties of the elections board.For last springs Student Senate elections, Student Senate found individual volunteers to fill the elections board. Student Senate Chair. Matt McGarvey expressed gratitude to A Phi O and these volunteers assistance, but he and the other members of the Executive Committee feel that voting results could be determined more expediently if the elections board members were given an incentive. Therefore, the committee unanimously approved the decision to pay this year's elections board. Anyone interested in working as a member of the elections board should see the posting on the cmu.misc.jobs bulletin board.
vto mowm 5c mto Volumo ao,5enm75l 5l ,s5C7l8/
,gPOn/TaOm ROmRgpmamF Tsg Mu4 LOnaRS Om EdOIamF 
LrPPg5 tt EgKTgdCgpV ckkt
.sgpgrP MrpmgFag ugnnOm 4ma-gpPaTS ET/5gmT EgmrTg pgROFmafgP Tsg mgg5 TO rRROddO5rTg Tsg 
KpglgpgmRgP Ol PdOIgpP rm5 mOm1PdOIgpPV Cg aT 
,gPOn-g5 TsrT lpOd TsaP 5rTg lOp2rp5V PdOIamF 2aTsam rmS PT/5gmT OpFrmafrTaOm9P OllaRg PKrRg 
Op am5OOp dggTamF PKrRg aP KpOsaCaTg5b rm5 Cg aT 
A/pTsgp pgPOn-g5 TsrT KrprFprKs Tspgg Ol Tsg MrpmgFag ugnnOm LOnaRS Om EdOIamF yc 7/nS ck::0 
rKKnS TO rnn am5OOp rRTa-aTagP PKOmPOpg5 CS r PT/5gmT OpFrmafrTaOm KrpTnS Op TOTrnnS l/m5g5 CS Tsg 
ET/5gmT 6RTa-aTagP Aggb rm5 Cg aT 
,gROddgm5g5 TsrT Tsg MrpmgFag ugnnOm LOnaRg Cg pg(/apg5 TO ng-S r damad/d lamg Ol Ucv 
rFramPT rnn -aOnrTOpP Ol Tsg LOnaRS Om EdOIamFB
Environmentalist speaks in Skibo
ACTIVISM, from page 1you have.Environmental writer A.R. Hogan concurs, saying, Students cant turn a blind eye to the problems of our political system.... Change must come from both the outside and the inside. As a college student, youre in a position
to make that happen, no matter where you stand on issues. Hogan said, Also, join in voter registration drives. Theyre a great non-partisan way to get involved in politics. In the past week, student groups on campus have been active in getting out the vote. Last Friday, the Col
lege Republicans gave out voter registration cards on campus. The Student Environmental Action Coalition (SEAC) organized the Campus Green Vote Conference last Monday and Thursday. This group handed out voter registration cards, encouraging registration and voting.
FALL SCHEDULE
for
FALL BUDGETS
vto cnlg7l8 F aoi58l7m75l Ua5io,, c5a 5a8ul7(um75l, 
aoio7M7l8 Sng8om, mt7, cuee I7ee So87l lowm IooCA 
4c 95n aoio7Mo 95na Sng8om mt7, cuee) 95n sn,m ummolg 5lo 5c mto 
mI5 soom7l8, Itoao mto Sng8om UuiCom, I7ee So tulgog 5nm/
vtna,gu9) Oim5Soa pf2 Us vuamul 35nl8o
b5lgu9) Oim5Soa Tf2 Us vuamul 35nl8o
joua7l8, I7ee muCo Ueuio SomIool Oim5Soa f ulg L5MosSoa HA
The actual Senate Budget Hearing will take place on Tuesday, November 17.
If you have any questions, please contact Michael Loomis, Funding & Recognition Chair or Anne Witchner at x8704.

---------------------------------------------------

vto vuamul y Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosoSoa p11hT
Crime and Incident Report
9/18 HARASSMENT, 2 pm. Astudent said he was leaving a bar at closing time along with eight of his friends. His friends asked for a ride home, but the student said he would drive only himself because he did not want that many people crammed in his car, and the walk to campus was very short. His intoxicated friends retaliated by jumping all over his car. The student was upset by their behavior and said he hit the horn and wanted to drive away. Eventually, the victims friends moved on. The vehicle sustained no damage.
9/18 MEDICAL ESCORT,5:51 pm. Campus Police received a call from a student stating that he had twisted his ankle and wanted to be taken to the hospital. The responding officer found out that the victim and some friends had been wrestling around in the victims room when one of the friends accidentally fell on the victims ankle, which made a popping sound.
9/18 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL,7:03 pm. Campus Police received a complaint of loud noise coming from a fraternity patio. The responding officer was approaching the fraternity when he observed several individuals on the second floor balcony with bottles in their hands. The individuals, upon seeing the officer, stepped back out of his view. The officer also observed a large number of bottles sitting on the patio wall.: Upon entering the house, the officer was escorted to the second floor by the vice president. The officer found that all of the bottles were missing from the wall and none of the individuals seen with bottles were present. The house was issued a citation for outside alcohol.
9/19 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNICATION, 2:14 am. A student reported that for the past five days he had been getting harassing phone calls. All the caller did was moan. When the call is picked up by the answering machine, all the caller said was Turkey, turkey, turkey.
9/19 THEFT, 2:48 am. While on routine patrol, a campus police officer observed two students cross the fraternities driveway onto the patio of a fraternity. One student was in possession of a orange and white construction barricade with blinking lights. The student said that the barricade had been taken from somewhere on Walnut Street. Both students were issued internal citations. Upon being advised that he would receive a citation, one student told the officer not to worry about it because he knew someone in Student Affairs.
9/19 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL,3:56 pm. Two students were cited at a football game for having outside alcohol. Both people were on the dorm side of the field and were carrying beer in cups.
9/20 FIRE ALARM, 12:34 pm. Fraternity members who were cooking failed to turn on the exhaust hood in their kitchen. The smoke build-up activated the fire alarm, though no fire existed.
9/20 THEFT, 4:29 pm. A CMU student reported that, between 2 and 6 pm or 11 pm and 3 am the previousday, a VCR was removed from his suite in Resnik dorm. The door to the suite had been left unlocked, though in the latter time period a suitemate was present. The VCR belonged to a friend of the victim and was sup- posedtobe returned to the owner the next week.
9/20 MEDICAL CALL, 7:22 pm. A student said that she had bad allergies caused by dust and pollen. She had developed a rash and was experiencing swelling in her face and mouth. The student was transported to Presbyterian Hospitals emergency room.
9/20 THEFT, 8:52 pm. A CMU student said that within the past two weeks someone had removed $300 from her dresser. When she went to retrieve the money, she found only $8. The money was the only thing missing. The victim said that she and her roommate always lock the door when they arent there, but sometimes leave it unlocked when sleeping. She was advised to keep her door locked when asleep.
9/21 SUSPICIOUS PERSON,12:38 am. Residents of Carol Apartments called Campus Police to report that there was an unknown man on the fire escape outside their third floor apartment. Upon arrival, an officer asked the man to come down. The man identified himself as a CMU student and descended the fire escape as requested.He told the officers that he had climbed out of the window of his basement apartment because it was hot. He said the fire escape ladder was already down and, thinking he heard people speaking to him, he decided to climb up to find out what they were saying.The residents of the third floor apartment said they heard the fire escape ladder being pulled
down and called out to ask who of back spasms, was down there. They later realized someone was outside their apartment. The student was advised to stay off fire escapes and was issued an internal citation.
9/21 PYROTECHNICS VIOLATION, 2:20 am. While on routine patrol, a campus police officer heard fireworks coming from the direction of the tennis courts. Two people were observed lighting and tossing firecrackers from a balcony to the area of the Childrens School playground. Two officers responded to the area and approached the students as they climbed through the window from the balcony. The remaining contraband fireworks were confiscated and the students were issued internal citations.
9/21 MEDICAL ASSIST,10:17 am. Campus Police were notified that a female in pain was outside the womens restroom near BH 132.The responding officers found that the victim could only speak with great difficulty and was showing signs of severe abdominal pain.Pittsburgh Medics and CMU EMS were summoned.
9/23 MEDICAL ESCORT,8:50 pm. Two soccer players collided during a game and both sustained facial cuts that possibly needed stitches.Prior to the officers arrival, both victims had had gauze and ice applied to their wounds. Transportation was provided to Presbyterian Hospital.
9/23 MEDICAL CALL, 6:26 pm. Campus Police were informed that a person had pulled a muscle on the tennis courts and needed help. The responding officers found the injured person on his back with his legs elevated by a chair. He said that whenever he tried to get up, his breathing would be restricted. He was transported to Presbyterian Hospital Emergency Room for treatment
9/24 MEDICAL CALL, 9:50 pm. A CMU student said that, while playingintramural football, another player had hit her in the knee. She said that the same knee had been operated on seven years ago and that she was now experiencing the same type of pain. Medical transport was provided to Shadyside Hospital.
9/25 MEDICAL ESCORT,1:37 am. A CMU student entered the Campus Police Office stating that she cut her right thumb while working on a project in the CFA architecture studio. The victim was transported to Presbyterian Hospital after tape and pads were applied to the injury.
9/25 VANDALISM, 3:21 am. Campus Police were informed that the water fountain near the A-Tower elevator on the first floor of Morewood had been pulled from the wall.The officers responding to the call found that the front of the water fountain was partially pulled off from the frame. The handle of the water fountain was held down, causing water to run on the floor. The water fountain still operates.
9/26 MEDICAL CALL, 2:06 am. Campus Police received a report that a student was experiencing the symptoms of a heart attack, including stomach pain which became chest pain and numbness in her left arm. The student was transported to the Pitt Medical Center Emergency Room.
Compiled By KEEGAN FOLK
SHORT & SUITE
SHORT TERM LEASES 
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 
1 OR 2 BEDROOM 
APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From $47 per day (on a monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering machine too!), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCR, all linens, completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and concierge services available.
I'oll I ree 800-767-K-48:'(412) 441-4444 5405, Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, lA 15232
Phot
Exhibition Datesograph
GMt7&9
t7m7llSept. 29 -Oct. 4mwl7D444D4p
Opening ReceptionGallery HoursF O R B ES
October 2Tuesday - SundayG A L L E RY
7:00 - 9:00 PM12:00-6:005200 (orbes a' d
Refreshments andThursdayp 1 1 U b u r o h . pa 15h p H
Live Entertainment12:00-9:00k p hAh ~ 2Ah da i
Closed Mondaycarneglo melo n
Mehrabian supports International Festival
INTERNATIONAL, from page 1represent.Mehrabian said the International Festival is not just for international students; it is for all studonts. He said, When our current students enter the job market, they will be entering a very worldly environment. They will be working for global companies and ... competing in a global economy. To teach Carnegie Mellon students how to be effective in this worldly environment, Mehrabian formed the International Awareness Committee, which has been concentrating on expanding campus involvement in programs and activities of a global nature, according to Peter Stearns, dean of H&SS and chair of the International Awareness Committee.Mehrabian adds that the International Festival is something in which everybody can participate, so that students can gain the experience and knowledge of being exposed to other cultures. He has taken this idea beyond the festival and started an Office of International Education, which he has since staffed with new faculty that helped him start the Centre de Tours French exchange program; increase agreements, awareness, and understanding with students about foreign exchange; and connect CMU with other programs in such countries as Mexico, Japan, and Germany. He said, The overall direction ... is [toward] our responsibility to educating our students.Both students and faculty are looking forward to the International Festival. Mehrabian [feels] good about it. There are good volunteers involved, [and] you cant get this help with just money. Khan said that over the next few years, the increasing level of activity through the Activities Board, the Concert Series, and the Lecture Series will provide an international flavor... not just a few days but throughout the year. Loomis said, The Latin American [Festival] probably benefits student life on the CMU campus more than any other programs by Warner Hall.This year, Carnegie Mellon studonts and staff get a taste of the Caribbean and Latin America; next year, African cultures become the International Festivals focus.
PR33 QELBRL O .ELB4P./ whppp
G3D VjOvV
Friday, October 2, 1992 
8:30 am - 4:30 pm 
Skibo Room 12
Thursday, October 15, 1992 
8:30 am - 4 pm 
Morewood Gardens Rec Room
Recommended for:
1. Individuals 55 years of age and older.
2. Individuals with chronic lung or heart problems 
including asthma.
3. Individuals who have required regular medical 
follow-up or hospitalization during the preceding year 
because of diseases including diabetes, severe kidney 
problems, or problems with the immune system.
4. Individuals who are taking medications that 
surpress the immune system.
5. Teenagers, up to and including 18 years of age, on 
long term aspirin therapy.
4vV GEE
Sponsored by the Student Health Services and Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Vmngolm s5lo9 ,t5neg 
l5m cnlg 4lme Go,m7Mue
weGQVe You YourAllowance uastyearjL.ohokQy^Tust Dont Po it Again... THav?- ""sure."
Letters to the Editor
The International Festival, ini
tiated as a regular event last 
year, is returning to campus in 
October.
As students, we have to ask 
why a Warner Hall project, un
der the auspices of the Office of 
the President, is being partially 
paid for by the Student Activi
ties Fee. Why is it that the Ad
ministration needs to come to 
Student Senate asking for 
money to help support this 
event?
This happened last year, when 
the International Festival asked 
Senate for $5000 and got it. 
Thats ten times the amount a 
new student organizations first 
budget can be. Aliya Khan, who 
coordinates the festival, prom
ised Senate that she wouldnt be 
back for more msney this year. 
However, Khan returned this 
year asking, yet again, for $5000. 
It would seem that the Interna
tional Festival people didnt do 
as good a job as was expected in 
planning and budgeting.
Some Senators wanted to 
refuse funding altogether, but 
Senate ended up giving in and 
handing over $3000 for the Fes
tival. This is still six times the 
amount allowed a new 
organizations budget.
When asked, Michael Murphy, 
dean of Student Affairs, said 
that the International Festival
Student Senate currently has 
ten vacancies. This represents 
approximately one third of Sen
ate. Many of these vacancies 
have been caused by resigna
tions, and they have not been 
filled because of student apa
thy.
When a Senator is elected or 
appointed, he or she has an ob
ligation to serve for an entire 
term. There are some legitimate 
reasons for resigning, such as 
class conflicts. Senators should 
not resign just because they no 
longer feel like working on Sen
ate, or because they decide they 
like another activity better. A 
seat on Senate is both a privi
lege and an obligation. Sena
tors should not take a seat in 
the first place if they know they 
will not have the time. If they 
have personality conflicts with 
other Senators they should deal 
with them. Resigning from a 
leadership position in any orga
nization without a legitimate 
reason is irresponsible; resign
ing from Student Senate, the 
organization which represents 
the entire student body, is inex
cusable.
Students should take respon
sibility for governing the Uni
versity. Student government is 
the active voice of the students 
in policy making. If youve ever 
thought about joining Senate, 
nows the time to do it; if you 
havent, nows the time to think 
about it. Dont let the vacancies 
stand, leaving you unrepre
sented.
Any member of the Student 
Body can become a member of 
Student Senate if there is a va
cancy in his or her college. If you
didnt really need the Activities 
Fee money, but that it would be 
nice for Senate to co-sponsor 
the event.
While Murphy is correct, and 
this is a very nice idea, there is 
little reason for it to become 
reality, considering that Sen
ate already runs low on Activi
ties Fee cash every year. Also, 
if asking Senate for money was 
the plan, it would have been 
better for the administration to 
approach Senate before any of 
the printing had been com
pleted, so that the literature 
could have read funded in part 
by the Activities Fee and co
sponsored by Student Senate. 
Of course, the already-printed 
literature says no such thing, 
which is hardly appropriate if 
Activities Fee funds are going 
to be involved.
Besides, if the Office of Stu
dent Affairs doesnt need stu
dent money, there is absolutely 
no reason that it should ask for 
student money. This is an un
acceptable state of affairs. Sen
ate should not have even briefly 
considered the administrations 
request, and shouldve clearly 
remembered the promise made 
by Khan not to return with her 
hand out. Senate should not 
have funded the International 
Festival once, let alone twice, 
anditmustneverhappen again.
would like to fill one of the va
cancies in Senate, we strongly 
suggest you first attend some 
Senate meetings to see what 
its like. If you decide you would 
like to be a Senator, you need to 
pick up a petition from the Stu
dent Senate office in the Tartan 
Loft or the Skibo Information 
Desk and get 25 signatures from 
students in your college. Then, 
at the next meeting of Senate, 
you must be approved by a 2/3 
vote of Senate.
The following colleges have 
one seat open in Senate: MCS, 
GSIA, H&SS, SCS, and CIT. 
Heinz and CFA both have two 
open seats. Since the Heinz 
School has only two seats in 
Senate, Heinz students are cur
rently not represented at all. 
One other open seat is the mis
cellaneous students seat. This 
Senator represents all students 
who are not in any other col
leges, such as students in the 
Information and Networking 
Institute and the Robotics In
stitute. Students in these col
leges are also without any rep
resentation in Senate right now. 
The only college which pres
ently has full representation in 
Senate is IM.
Student Senate could be called 
the most important organiza
tion on campus. It distributes 
the Activities Fee, it makes de
cisions about what organiza
tions on campus can do, and 
most importantly, it represents 
the student body of Carnegie 
Mellon. We call upon Senators 
holding office to do their j obs for 
their entire term, and we call 
upon the student body to fill the 
vacancies in Senate.
Grad students not given 
attention on campus
Editor: s=*How is it that, after iStt!i,"iurA VC7S5 s7e ~dsix weeks of operation,--------------------------
The Tartan has yet to Letter towrite a story about the the Edjt()r Graduate Coffeehouse?Perhaps there are more newsworthy issues elsewhere. Or, more likely, this lack of coverage is one more example of the continued marginal treatment of graduate students on this campus.The Graduate Coffeehouse is both a powerful political statement by graduate students and a wonderful contribution to the social atmosphere at Carnegie Mellon. The Coffeehouse has a history, founding members, and a message, and has changed this University. Its story deserves to be told.
Jennifer Trost 
Graduate Student, History
Volleyball team upset 
with Tartan coverage
Editor:For the past four years, the volleyball team has put up with incredible articles by The Tartan  articles which are negative in perspective, articles in which the writer creates a match which they did not see from the scores they were given, articles written by someone who not only wasnt at the match, but quite possibly has never even seen one. Our absence from The Tartan for the previous two issues was the last straw, and we finally decided to take matters into our own hands.Several members of the team complained to the editors about the lack of coverage, and they were assured that the problem would be solved. However, since no one on the team was contacted for quotes or for information on our schedule, we decided to write our own article to give us the positive coverage we have deserved for the past four years and certainly deserve now that we have a winning season, which is very hard to do when you play as many matches against as many different teams as we do. We are 10-6 and damn proud of it.Joanna Downer volunteered to write an article for last weeks Tartan to catch CMU up with more than two weeks of
our season. The article was written Sunday morning and taken to The Tartan office and submitted for printing.Since we are quite used to being misquoted, we were interested to see what would be done with the article. It was intentionally long so that it could be edited without changing the perspective, because it was not known how much room was available.Monday certainly brought us a surprise, as the sports editor claimed the byline, which had been Val E. Baul in an effort not to show that we wrote the article ourselves. In addition to this, changes were made to the article and title unnecessarily which are obvious because of their negative attitude, incorrectness (there is a big difference between winning eight of 10 games and eight of 10 matches, which is what we did), and the omission of direct quotes from players, who were the only people actually there.As sports editor, Josh Linder should know the difference between editing and plagiarising. If he doesnt, maybe he should get a new job.The bottom line is that we shouldnt have to write our own articles in order to get fair, positive coverage. If we do, because we are the only members of the campus at most of our matches, then the integrity of the article should be respected. The Sports section of The Tartan needs to work on providing positive, equal coverage of all sports, even womens.
Joanna B. Downer,
Heather D. Thompson,
Lisa A. Leonardo,
Wendy Burton,
Molly Brennan,
Jennifer Goetz,
Danielle Walter,
Ann Feng,
J. Elizabeth Rowlands,
Courtney Booker,
Jennifer J. New,
Carolyn Skarada,
Lisa Devlin, 
and Patricia Bruno 
Members of the volleyball team
[Editors Note: The Tartan will never 
print anonymous submissions (includ
ing those signed with fictious names). 
Even if the name is withheld upon pub
lication, the editor-in-chief must know 
the identity of the author. As a rule, The 
Tartan does not accept unsolicited ar
ticles.]
Education far more 
Important than ranking
Editor:I read with great interest the cover story about CMUs rank among the top educational institutions in the country. I cant be proud of the rankings, however, simply because they are not worth the paper they are printed on. During my career, I have been a student at three well-regarded universits and was closely associated with a fourth. I have also visited numerous other universits. Based on my personal experiences, I can tell you that the rankings are meaningless. Let me be somewhat more specific. My undergrad school, RPI, and CMU both suffer froir the problem of a low graduation rate. J. this a problem that should reflect upon the schools national rank? Certainly not! I claim that the low graduation rate is a tribute to the difficulty of obtaining a quality undergraduate education and the quality of the students who do succeed in graduating. As a counter example, I offer Brown University (which almost certainly ranked ahead of CMU). In 1983, to get a degree from Brown, one simply took 28 courses. Period. How can they not fail to have a high graduation rate with a setup like that? Does that make Brown a superior school to CMU or RPI? Certainly not! I recall having conversations with EE majors there who had only taken two or three more courses in EE than I did, but I was an MechE! The article also seems to indicate that the ranking was based primarily on the quality of the undergraduate education received, and not the research done at the university. I can accept this. But, if CMU is interested in advancing in this ranking, why have several of the very best teachers in CIT been denied tenure? I know it is heresy to suggest this, but shouldnt those faculty who have proven to be gifted teachers be allowed to continue doing so, even if they dont generate as many research dollars as their colleagues? CMU is a far better school than reflected in the USN&WR survey. Should the adminstration make changes that will improve our ranking in this meaningless poll, it will probably have a negative impact on the quality of the education received here.
Gerry Roston 
Staff, Roboticswarfare rampant on campusChemical
Volluom V. e87,7I8
Ive had a couple of very strange nightmares lately, and I wonder if you might help me psychoanalyze myself.In the first dream, which Ive had several times, I enter a mall through one of its anchor department stores  a Penneys or Homes, for example. To get to the central part of the mall, I have to
pass through the perfume department. Just before I am out of the store, a Perfume Person approaches me and says, You really must try this scent today, and sprays some on my neck. Puzzled, I walk out of the store and into the center of the mall.Instead of a variety of storefronts, there are only entrances to other department stores, and these entrances are all perfume departments. I walk toward the next store, and I see a Perfume Person standing at the entrance. I notice, though, that the Perfume Person is dividing, like
an amoeba, into two Perfume People. By the time I get to the front of this store, the two Perfume People spray me. I move quickly toward the next store, where four Perfume People are waiting.To get out of the mall, I have to go back through a perfume department. Panicing, I try to crash a line of Perfume People. I fail, and they grab me and carry me to a counter that they have filled with perfume. They throw me into the perfume bath and hold my head under so that I cant breathe.Then I wake up.The other dream is shorter
 Im riding an elevator in a building that I think is part of Morewood Gardens. A couple gets on. The man, for some reason, has decided to use his years supply of cologne in one day. The woman, determined that her hair not move an inch, has used her years supply of hair spray. The elevator malfunctions, and we become stuck between floors.I realize that I will soon lose consciouness and suffocate, so I take off my shoes, rub my wool socks on the carpeted floor, and touch Mr. Macho- Studley and Ms. Hair Queen 
Please see PERFUME, page 10
vuCo ao,U5l,7S7e7m9 
ulg c7ee Volumo ,oum,
3amDa D 4t5 Eg7m5a Vo vuamul jCeS5eD44FO
Letter to 
the Editor
033o7 poa m5 7t5 Eg7m5a
Letter to 
the Editor

---------------------------------------------------

vto vuamul y Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosSoa p11hf
Students dont realize how good CMU is
es55,o Csllaormou
Today I am experiencing something that I will probably never be able to feel again  a sort of history in the making. As I walk around the campus of CMU, through the halls, cafeterias, and even on the Cut, I see more than just the many different faces mingling with one anotherI see all the cultural and social backgrounds that make up each individual. This is the one place where I can honestly say that it does not matter who you are, whetheryou are bl ack or white or Asian, and it does not even matter if you are from a different state or a different country and getting your first taste of America; everyone is welcome at CMU. There are no ethnic boundaries keeping different people from becoming friends, for it is this very difference that makes the friendships sospecial. Whetheritbeawoman
from India having lunch with a skater dude, or a group of foreign students and Americans playing football, it is a pleasant reassurance to see that such interaction and boundary-crossing is possible. Even though the United States was developed as the melting pot of the world, reaUty shows us the harsh truth that different is not always welcome. Such is not the case at Carnegie Mellon. While other universities are separated by ethnic and social barriers, CMU is, in itself, the world united in a common goal  to achieve.Now that I have been here for a couple of weeks, I realize that it is not only the students that make such a difference at CMU, it is also the faculty and administration. Although many of us as students do not like to admit when faculty members are doing something good, and we especially focus on the problems with the administration, if you are a freshman or if Carnegie Mellon is the first college you have attended, you do not realize how much worse it could be. I just want to take this opportunity to tell you how
lucky you really are as students at CMU. When I first began corresponding with the University during the summer, it came as such a shock to me when my advisor actually remembered who I was since the last time I had talked to her. At the community college where I transferred
ests I wanted to pursue. I also did not realize what an acUustment it would be to come from a community college to a university like Carnegie Mellon.Again, it was quite a shock to my system to find the faculty and administration more than willing to work with me on an indiI knew CMU had to be something 
special when I would call my advisor 
after a month or so and find that she 
would still remember my name, what 
majors I applied for...
from, which was a lot smaller than Carnegie Mellon, the counselors and administrators could not remember my gender when they sent me mail, let alone my name. I knew CMU had to be something special when I would call my advisor after a month or so and find that she would still remember my name, what majors I applied for, and what intervidual basis to meet my specific needs. Many of the faculty members I have met seem to really take an interest in their students what a unique concept for a school!Part of what makes Carnegie Mellon so different for me are the many organizations around campus. There is something for everyone and a number of opportu
nities to meet new people. Some of the classes are not very invigorating, but in others where you are being taught by some of the best in the business and have opportunities to work side by side with the professionals, it is an exciting experience. No, the food is not the greatest and the computer clusters are really a pain, but if you look beyond the little annoyances, we are in the ultimate environment for learning and growing as independent individuals.Even though Carnegie Mellon is traditionally a technical school, there is such a diverse group of people that blend together here that it is just as easy to focus on the variety of individuals as it is to emphasize the schools noted fields. I think experiencing the campus atmosphere is just as important as the classes offered at CMU. Both are a part of a growing experience that you could not get anywhere else .
Bobbie Dofflemyer is a junior 
creative writing major with a 
double major in information sys
tems.
Planning will preserve American Dream
ngCg iM,UU
According to some of the media and some of the politicians, the American Dream is dying or dead, with blame often attributed to a failing government. The government, however, is not responsible for how we make use of our individual economic resources. We should question what role the American people play in sustaining their own economic prosperity and that of future generations.If our generation is not expected to do as well as our parents, then the reasons and solutions can be found in individual choices. The outlook of how economic prosperity is achieved needs to be examined.The ultimate economic success in America is often considered the purchase of a home. Because real estate prices dramatically increased during the 80s, that standard can no longer be achieved in the same ways. Those who still look to purchase a house in their twenties or early thirties are looking towards a goal that is not necessarily achievable.With life expectancy as long as it is now, we need to shift our expectations of financial goals. Saving to buy a house may take longer than before, but the enjoyment of that luxury will last far longer than it previously had. Achieving goals, such as buying a house, takes long term planning and sacrifice.The low saving rate of Americans certainly does not point to long term planning by most people. The blame for the lack of saving is that many Americans are having to live from pay check to pay check, but what are people doing with those pay checks?
Many people are paying off consumer debts  at interest rates of 18 percent. Americans love to buy the newest and best products available. Credit cards are the means to pay for these products. The influx of consumer electronics is an example of an area where people of all economic levels spend money on items that once did not exist, but now seem to be essential. Like electronics, fashion is another area that consumers spend a lot of money. Buying a $100 pair of sneakers may impress your
security for twenty years after retirement. We need to change our habits instead of expecting some magic economy to shower us with dollar bills.Middle class blue collar workers and their families are being used by the media as the examples of the death of the American Dream. The previous blue collar generation got ahead through strong union jobs, and now their children dont have a chance because the good paying union jobs are gone or disappearing quickly, or at
Investment is needed for the future. Consumers 
cannot stop spending all together but... more 
planning would ensure a fighting chance at the 
future. Sacrifice when you are in your twenties 
might make the difference fifty years later...
friends, but certainly does not help long term prosperity.Investment is needed for the future. Consumers can not stop spending all together, but a little more planning would ensure a fighting chance at the future. Some sacrifice when you are in your twenties might make the difference fifty years later, yet how many people think beyond the next pay check? Beyond savingfor items such as a house, there are financial responsibilities such as childrens educations and retirement.When people start working, the furthest thing from their mind is retirement. However, if the same amount of money is saved every year until retirement the compound- inginterestmakes nearly half of the amount at retirement from the first ten years of savings. That type of long range outlook is not easy, but neither is living on social
least that is the impression the media and politicians give. The problem is that the current generation of blue collar workers is trying to achieve success the same way their parents did, and that just is not possible any more.As technology develops, blue collar jobs will disappear. Companies will be able to break unions as the number of positions decrease but the number of workers remains the same. Those left without jobs will need education for other types of work, either through college or some other type of education. Why isnt that happening?In 1988, a Time article profiled a typical working class American family. The father has achieved the American Dream (i.e. bought a house, supported his family, etc:), but his children are not doing nearly as well as he had. Despite the fathers success, his children struggle in low pay
ing jobs without much hope. The problem is that his success occurred without a college education, it was assumed that the same was possible f6r his children.The father was able to give his son money for a down payment on a small house. If they planned better for the future, the money could have been better used if he had paid college tuition for his son instead, giving him a better chance for sustained economic success.Although the article in Time is specific to one family, it points out the general failure of some parts of our parents generation to prepare many of us for a changing economy. Although a private university education is out of reach for many families, a college education in general is not.Many state and community colleges cost less than $5000 dollars a year, and some a lot less. If someone right out of high school lived at home and worked part time, some type of education is definitely possible. Certainly someone trying to get through school while working is not going to get the same education that we are privileged to get at CMU, but they wont be making $10,000 dollars a year because they couldnt get a scarce union job. A college education does not guarantee a large income, but in general, college graduates earn considerably more money than non-college graduates.It would be great to say there is some single solution to ensuring economic success for every American, but the reality is that conscious planning and sacrifice are needed to prepare ourselves and the next generation for a changing economy and society. The American Dream is not dead, but how we achieve it does need to change.
R.D. Quinn is a senior civil engineering 
major.
P5eeo8o oUnSe7iul, g7,in,, 7sU5amulm 7,,no,
vtu,7I,8U yg no7I,ls
Until last week,Ihadjust about had it with the students of Carnegie Mellon. Nothing controversial like last years resolution was happening in Student Senate, only a few of my friends were actually interested in the current political campaigns, and there was a definite lack ofintellectual discourse. In short, no one discussed anything of value.Given the nature of the workload here at CMU, this really shouldn't have surprised me. After all, there are times when even the most worldly and up-to- date person succumbs to exam pressure and ends up a little clueless as to whats going on here at CMU, not to mention Bosnia-Herzegovina.Salvation soon shone on the Cut, however. Ready to tackle the important issues and stimu
late thought-provoking, eye-opening debate, the College Republicans took it upon themselves to conduct a detailed examination of the platforms of George Bush and Bill Clinton. Yes, well armed
it, leftist writings such as Bush + Qualye = Recession, Clinton + Gore = Recovery, and Equal Rights for Gays + Lesbians desecrated the fence.Response was quick and deciDavid Byler, a freshman in CIT, 
proposed action by a/dvocating going 
to the play advertised on the other 
side of the fence to "boo the fag 
actors.
with facts and theories, they proceeded to educate the campus community about the real issues, the ones to which the media and the voters havent paid enough attention.Apparently, members of the College Republicans painted the fence during the weekend. Daring to confuse the issues, some liberals painted over the fence. Because someone failed to guard
sive. Stephen Gordon, a freshman in MCS, posted on the assocs.collegerepublicans bboard that he wondered if anyone would get mad at gas the queers written on the fence. He said that it probably wasnt a good idea. But think about it. When youre mad and such things pollute our campus, you need strong responses.The members werent about to beat around the bush (no pun
intended) when it came to discussing the important things. David Byler, a freshman in CIT, advocated a direct approach with clear and concise language, refreshingly free of political rhetoric, that would stand up to the limp-wristed, democrat, CFAers. He even proposed action by advocating going to the play advertised on the other side of the fence to boo the fag actors.So, through a night of cold rain, they painted the fence. When morning broke, their messages were there, ready to enlighten the ignorant, and to dispell the double-speak, to bring about progress through open and honest discussion.If one approached close enough to read the yellow on white writing, several memorable and moving quotes were to be read. The reader was forced to question the issue of honesty in fulfilling campaign promises with Clinton lies ... in other womens beds.Closer to Doherty Hall, the College Republicans examined military spendingissues with ROTC NOT FEMINAZI. Unfortunately, most of the other writings were incomprehensible. I wish otherwise, as I love stimulating viewpoints.Even though I have only slight disagreements with the College Republicans on some of these important issues, Im glad they took the first step in opening the debate. As Patrick Gallagher, a freshman in MCS, put it, at least they didnt blindly swallow empty rhetoric by giving in to such people as communists, liberals, homosexuals, Fine Art majors, feminazis, peace mongers, and vegetarians.Luckily for those interested, however, the debate didnt stop there. Patrick Gallagher tackled the issue of women in politics by deconstructing the beliefs of Hillary Clinton.He did quite an extensive job. Noticably lacking in his argument were the typical code-word sound 
Please see REPUBLICANS, page 10
vjEvRvRL
Cnrnogio Mollon's Student Nowspapor 
Slnco 1906
Editor-in-Chlof................Hoidl Hoover
Managing Editor............M.K. Rodgers
Business Mgr...........Timothy S. Blnss
News Editor.............Brendan McFeely
Forum Editor..................Aaron Jenkins
Sports Editor......................Josh Linder
Features Editor..............IVlegan Dietz
Diversions Editors ....Barbara Reyes 
Tara M. Seman 
Calendar Editor ...Ellen Hendrickson
Magazine Editors...........Marni Borek
Daniel Frey
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed......Glen Hoffman
Art Editor......................Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor.................Josh Freeman
Production Mgr.................Tina L. Urso
Personnel Mgr........Ignatius Sasmita
Copy Manager...........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr..............Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Editor ....Kendrick Chua
Asst. Forum Ed......Ruth Rasmussen
Asst. Sports Ed. ...Andy Glendinning 
Asst. Features Editors ...Laura McClure 
Laura PaJanker
Asst. Art Editor.........Samuel Greenfield
Asst. Production Mgrs......Katie Swango
Derek Wahlla 
Darkroom Manager ..Cesar Sanchez 
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Tad Dookstador, D.A. 
Henderson, Mark Hilllor, Doxtor 
Kobayashl, Richard Quinn
Senior Staff 
Davo Martin, Christian Rostlfo, Mlko 
Shapiro
Staffwritors 
Nlcolo Allon, Joff Baslstn, Trlnotto 
Chandler, Bob Dixon, Dan Gnllnghor, 
Erin Grunzko, David Hunt, Lubomlr 
KochanskylJ, Chris Maplos, Doclan 
McCullagh, Corrl Motz, Frank 
Michels, Truptl Patol, Abby Schlff, 
Andrew Sproulo, Kolly Storllng, Ja
son Togyor, Jason Wyso, Losllo 
Zubaty
Art
Jeff Dorsey, Roy Huang
Comics
Michael Beard, Christian Borlo, Matt 
Goldberg, Drow Olbrich, Elliott Schlff, 
Jen Thorson
Design 
Matt Adler
Photo
Debbie Bauer, Kevin Chen, Diane 
Keen, Seth Redmore 
Darkroom 
Augustine Kuo 
Production 
Kuo Chiang, Tony "Stlrig" deFiglo, 
Becky Elroy, Michael Gibson, Otis 
Greene, Michael Peck, Drew 
Shefman
Copy
Erin Bailey, Roshni Bhakta, Madhav 
Ghanta, Yerin Kay, Lenna Kydes, Anne 
Lopez, Catherine Marquis, Jon 
Stevenson, Patricia Williams 
Junior Staff 
Laura Bentrem, Eric Davis, Bobbie 
Dofflemyer, Nathan Dohm, Keegan 
Folk, Andrea Francioni, Marybeth Grif
fin, Karen Grunberg, Kerry Hagan, 
Cheryl Harris, Michael Harris, Reid 
Hecker, Lauren Heinz, Mike Hofsass, 
Brockett Horne, Alexandra Hunter, 
Arun Jayakumar, Lesley Kay, Mike 
Keating, Ellen Lalumere, Meron 
Langsner, Sung Lee, Monica Leeke, 
Nina Liang, Beth MacDonald, Jackie 
Maher, Paolo Malabuyo, Tanya 
Maynlgo, Amy McGovern, Mac 
Mlrchandanl, Jenifer Mul, Dizzy 
Murphy, Paul Platosh, Tonya Rado, 
Olivia Raharja, Melissa Reaves, Syd 
Rodriguez, Ben Shelton, Ed Slavishak, 
Jon Slenk, Andrew Sproule, Steph 
Stine, Eric Strauss, lllr Toska, Jen 
Urso, Andy Vaughan, Lisa Vitalbo, 
Mike Walker, Gary Wilson
Ttio Tartan Is tho 6tudcnt newspaper of Carneglo 
Mellon University. It Is a weekly newspaper pub
lished by students during the fall and spring somostors, at no cost to mombors of the University, 
community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for tho 
semester or academic year, Tho editorials appear
ing at tho beginning of tho opinion section arc tho 
official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial board. Col
umns and political cartoons aro the opinions of 
Individual creators. Tho Tartan rosorves the right to 
reject or condenso any column or politico! cartoon. 
Lottors to tho Editor are opinions of authors who 
aro usually, but not necossarlly, mombors of tho 
University community. A lottor intended for publica
tion must be signed and include tho writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names will bo 
withhold upon request. Tho Tartan requests that 
letters bo no longer than 350 words. Tho Tartan 
reserves tho right to condenso or reject any lottor. 
Copyright  1992 by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan odltorial board reserves tho right to withhold from publi
cation any copy it deems unfit for publication. 
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: Tho Tartan/Box 17/Carncglo 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
17 percent funded by your Actlvltlos Fee,
All rights reserved,
Ubraryof Congress ISSN tte 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

POLICY
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of 
final examinations for undergraduate courses:
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for 
exam purposes of any kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam so 
that people can leave earlier.
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given 
finals day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving 
conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of the 
students choosing during the final exam period;
8. any student shall be permitted to see his/her corrected, graded final 
exam in the presence of an instructor, provided the exam is not in 
the students possession;
9. all final exams shall be returned to students, or be kept available 
to students for a period of not less than one year;
10. in the event that a teaching assistant is unable to fulfill part 8 or 
part 9, the responsibility shall rest with the course instructor;
11. in the event that an instructor is unable to fulfill part 8, 9, or 
10, the responsibility shall rest with the department in which the 
course was offered;
12. it is assumed that instructors will return all work assigned before 
the final exam period. Thus, instructors are not responsible for 
retaining unclaimed coursework.
NOTE: COMPLAINTS ABOUT VIOLATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION POLICY OR ALTERATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO THE APPROPRIATE DEPARTMENT HEAD.
THIS FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE IS ALSO FOUND ON THE VAX BBOARD SYSTEM UNDER OFFICIAL-REGISTRAR-INFO AND ON THE ANDREW BBOARD SYSTEM UNDER OFFICIAL.REGISTRAR-INFO.
Final Exam Schedule
sundaymondaytuesdayWednesdaythursdayfridaySaturday
6f
exam
day
8
exam
day
1
reading
day
pd
exam
day
pp
exam
day
ph
pHpk
exam
day
pT
exam
day
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03121 MODERN BIOLOGY MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM PH 100, WEH 7500 03130 BIOLOGY OF ORGANISM MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM MM 103 03240 CELL BIOLOGY THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 7500 03330 GENETICS THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM MM 10303360 BIOLOGY OF THE BRAIN TUE DEC 8 1:00-4:00PM WEH 5403 03439 INTRO TO BIOPHYSICS MON DEC 7 5:30-8:30PM CFA 212 03609 FERMENTATN TCHNLGY THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM DH 2122
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06100 INTRO TO CHEM ENGR THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM WEH 7500 06151 THERMODYNAMICS TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM MM A14 06201 PRINCTRANS PROC II TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM DH 1112 06205 CONTROLS FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM DH 111206301 CHEM ENGR KINETICS MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM DH 111206302 PROC ENGR & SYNTH FRI DEC 11 1:00- 4:00PM MM A14 06703 ADV FLUID DYNAMICS FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM DH 2105 06713 MATH TECH CHEM ENGR MON DEC 14 5:30-8:30PM DH 2122 06717 FERMENTATN TCHNLGY THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM DH 2122
CHEMISTRY
09103 ATOMS MOL CHEM CHNG FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM DH 121209105 MODERN CHEMISTRY I FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM DH 2210, DH 2315, WEH 750009106 MODERN CHEMISTRY II MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 7500 09117 ORGANIC CHEMISTRY I MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM DH 231509206 PHYS PRIN ANALY CHEM TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM DH 1112, DH1212 09245 PIIYS CHEMISTRY I THU DEC 10 1:00-4:00PM DH 1112, DH 1212 09248 INORGANIC CHEMISTRY TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 5427
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12101 INNOV & DES CIV ENGR THU DEC 10 1:00-4:00PM MM AI4 12207 STATICS TUE DEC 15 1:00- 4:00PM PH 10012241 1NTR CMPTR APP C E MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM PH I25C 12320 STRUCTURAL MECH I MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM PH 125C 12330 FLUID MECHANICS 1 TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM PH 125C 12607 PROJ MGT FOR CNSTRCT MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM PH 100 12609 TRAFFIC FLOW THEO OP FRI DEC II 1:00-4:00PM ADAMSON 12623 STRUCTURAL DESIGN MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM PH 126A 12636 ENVR ENGR AIR POLLU THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM PH 125C 12702 1NFRASTRUCT MGMNT MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM PH I26A 12704 PR EST MTHD ENG SYS TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM PH A18A 12720 WATER RESOURCE CHEM MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM PH 126B 12725 ORG COMP AQUATIC SYS THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM PH 126A 12732 ENVR ENGR AIR POLLU THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM PH 125C12740 CAE TOOL TUE DEC 15 1:00- 4:00PM PH 125C12741 ADV PROG CNCPTS CAE FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM PH 126A 12755 FINITE ELEM MECH I MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM PH 126A
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15211 FUNDSTRUCCMPSCI MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM PH 10015212 FUND STRC CMP SC II MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM DH 2210 15312 PROG LANG DES PROC FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM ADAMSON 15381 ARTFL INT RP PR SLV MON DEC 14 5:30-8:30PM PH 10015412 OPERATING SYSTEMS THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM PH 10015413 SOFTWARE ENGINEERNG FRI DEC 11 1:00-4:00PM WEH 5427 15451 ALGORITHMS MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM HH B13115462 COMPUTER GRAPHICS MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 7500 15499 SP TPCS CMPTR SCI THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 5205
ROBOTICS
16761 INTRO MOBILE ROBOTS TUE DEC 8 1:00-4:00PM WEH 6423
ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING
18100 INTRO ELEC COMP ENGR MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM DH 2210 18201 ENGR ELECTROMAG I FRI DEC 11 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 7500 18217 SIGNALS & SYSTMS I TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM SH 125 18220 FUND OF ELEC ENGR FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM PH 100 18222 AN DES DIG INT CIRC MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM PH 100 18240 FUND OF COMPUT ENGR FRI DEC 11 1:00-4:00PM PH 100 18247 INTRO COMPUTER ARCH THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 7500 18301 FNDMNTLS OF CONTROL THU DEC 10 1:00-4:00PM SH 206 18334 SEMICNDCT DEVICES I THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM WEH 5205 18384 ROBOTIC SYSTEMS THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM DH 1212 18402 TELEC TECH POL MGT MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM PH 226C 18443 LOGIC PROC DES PRNC MON DEC 7 8:30-ll:30AM DH 1212 18701 ELECTRMG FLD THEORY MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM SH 212 18751 APPL STOCH PROCESS MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 5427 18756 CIR SWTCH PACKT SWTC MON DEC 7 5:30-8:30PM MM A14 18791 DGTL SIGNAL PROC I TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM HH B131 18812 MWAVE & OPTCL MAGNTC MON DEC 14 5:30-8:30PM SH 212
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POLICY
19101 INTRO ENGR & PUB POL MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM DH 1112 19319 LAW & THE ENGINEER THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM SH 125 19402 TELEC TECH POL MGT MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM PH 226C 19712 TELEC TECH POL MGT MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM PH 226C
MATHEMATICS
21111 2.1112 21121
21122211272113121228212292123621241212572125921260 21269 213012135521356 21373 21441 21476 21484 21600 21621 21660 21800
2410124121242082421324223242422424524258
271002720127233273012731127357274412753127552277672777827779
3310633107 3311533121331223312333124 33127 33130 33435 33437 33441 33445 334533346333464 33755 33757 33759 33761 33769 33779 33783
CALCULUS I TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM SH 125, HH B103, HH B131CALCULUS II MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM DH 1212CALCULUS MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM DH 2315, WEH 7500,DH 1112, SH 125, MM 103,PH 125C, WEH 5427,ADAMSON CALCULUS W LIN ALG TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM DH 2210, DH 2315 INTRO TO MDRN MATH THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM DH 2210, DH 2315 ANALYSIS I TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 5403DISCRETE MATH THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM PH 100 SET THEORY MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 6423 MATHMTCL STUDIES II TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 8427 LINEAR ALGEBRA I TUE DEC 15 1:00- 4:00PM DH 2210, WEH 7500 OPTMZTN FOR SOC SCI MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM DH 2210 CALCULUS IN 3-D MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM DH 2210, DH 2315, WEH 7500 DIFFRENTL EQUATIONS FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM DH 2210, WEH 7500 ANALYSIS III FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 6423COMBINATORIAL ANALY THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 6423 ADVANCED CALCULUS I MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM WEH 8427 ADVANCED CALCULUS II TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 6423 ALGEBRAIC STRUCTURES TUE DEC 8 1:00-4:00PM WEH 7500 NUMBER THEORY MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM WEH 6423 ORD DIFF EQUATIONS FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM WEH 5403 APPL GRAPH THEORY THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 5403 MATH LOGIC I FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM WEH 6423 INT LEBESGUEINTEGR MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 5427 INTRO NMRCL ANALY I MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM WEH 5403 ADV TPCS IN LOGIC MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM WEH 6423
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
FUND OF MECH ENGR FRI DEC 11 1:00- 4:00PM PH 125C, PH 225C THERMODYNAMICS I MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM HH B103, HH B131 MANUFACTUR SCIENCES THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM HH B103, HH B131 VISCOUS FLOW MON DEC 7 8:30-ll:30AM SH 220 THERMODYNAMICS II MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM HH B103, HH B131 ENGR VIBRATIONS FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM HH B103, HH B131 DYNAMICS PHYSCL SYS FRI DEC 11 1:00- 4:00PM HH B103, HH B131 NUMERICAL METHODS TUE DEC 8 1:00-4:00PM SH 125, HH B103
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
MATERIALS IN ENGR TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM DH 1112 MATERIALS I MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM DH 1112 INTRO TO SOL ST PHYS THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 8427 MSE LABORATORY II MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM DH A317 PHASE RELATIONS TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM DH A317 INTRO TO MATLS SELEC MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM DH A317 DEFORM/FRAC OF MTRLS MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 5403 SEMICND & DEVICES I THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM DH A317 CERAMICS & GLASSES FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM DH A317 SOLID SURFACES THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM DH A317 MATHEMATICAL METHODS THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM DH A317 BOND/CRYSTLS/DEFECTS TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM DH A317
PHYSICSPHYSICS ENGR STUD I TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM DH 2210, DH 2315PHYSICS ENGR STUD II TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM DH 2210INTRODUCT PHYSICS TUE DEC 15 1:00- 4:00PM DH 2315PHYSICS SCI STUD I FRI DEC 11 1:00-4:00PM DH 2210, DH 2315, DH 1212PHYSICS SCI STUD II TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM WEH 5427PHY SC ST III EL MAG TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM DH 1212QU PHY STRUC MATTER MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM SH 125PHYS III HNR EL MAG MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM WEH 5427PHYSCL MECHANICS I FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM SH 125QUANTUM PHYSICS II FRI DEC 11 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 7316INTRMD ELEC & MAG I MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 5403THERMODYNAMICS MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM WEH 5403MTHMTCL MTHDS PHYS TUE DEC 8 6:30-11:30AM WEH 5427INTERMEDIATE OPTICS THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM WEH 5403SPECIAL RELATIVITY TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 5405INTRO TO ASTROPHYS FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM WEH 8427QUANTUM MECHANICS 1 MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 8427CLASSICAL MECHANICS TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 7316INTRO THEO PHYS I FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 7316CLASSCL ELCTRODYN I MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 5403QUANTUM MECHNCS III MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 73161NTR NUC PRTCL PHYS TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 6325THEORY OF SOLIDS I THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 7316

---------------------------------------------------

STATISTICSENGLISH
36101 STAT CNCPTS CMP APP TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM PH 225C 36209 PRB APP STA MG SS I TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM DH 2315, PH 100 36211 PRB APP ST PH S&E I TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM ADAMSON 36217 PROB THEO RNDM PROC TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM PH 100, PH 125C 36225 INTRO PROB & STAT I TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM HH B103, HH BI31 36309 EX DES BEHA SOC SCI FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM PH 225C 36325 PROB & MATH STAT I TUE DEC 8 8:30- II :30AM PH 226C 36401 ADV DATA ANALYSIS I MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM PH 225C 36744 EX DES BEHA SOC SCI FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM PH 225C
CIT INTERDISCIPLINARY
39801 COLL POLY SUR LAB I MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM DH 2105
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
42100 BIOMED ENGR SEMINAR THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM DH 2105 42500 PHYSIOLOGY THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM DH 1112 42609 FERMENTATN TCHNLGY THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM DH 2122 42636 ENVR ENGR AIR POLLU THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM PH 125C 42677 REHABILITATION ENGR FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM DH 2200 42695 SENS PR PERC PSYCHO TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM DH 2200 42777 REHABILITATION ENGR FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM DH 2200 42795 SENS PR PERC PSYCHO TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM DH 2200
ARCHITECTURE
48210 STATICS THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM MM 10348261 18TH C EUROPEAN ARCH MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM DH 1112 48300 DESIGN STUDIO III TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM MM 103 48310 MATERIALS & ASSEMBLY FRI DEC 11 1:00-4:00PM MM 103 48320 DECISION MKNG & ARCH MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM HH B103 48410 TOTAL BLDG PERFORM THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM MM A14 48420 DESIGN ECONOMICS MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM MM 103 48440 BASIC CONCPTS ARCH MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM PH 126A 48520 PROFESSNL PRACTI THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM SH 125
76230 BBLCL MYTH BKGR LIT THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM PH 226C 76260 STUDY OF FORMS F1CTN THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM SH 224 76271 INTR PROF TECH WRITA MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM ADAMSON 76291 DISCOURSE & HIST CHG FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM PH 125C 76322 RDG BUILT LANDSCAPE TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM BH 235B 76334 I9TH LIT/CULT ST VIC THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM BH 237B76347 AMERICAN INNOCENCE TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM BH 231A76348 AMER FICTN 1920/1930 MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM BH 237B76374 ARGUMENT FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM PH 125C76431 CUL CRIT AGE CHAUCER FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM BH 235A 76443 ONEILL/MILLER/WILLMS MON DEC 7 1:00-4:00PM BH 23IA 76722 RDG BUILT LANDSCAPE TUE DEC 8 1:00-4:00PM BH 235B 76734 I9TH LIT/CULT ST VIC THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM BH 237B76747 AMERICAN INNOCENCE TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM BH 231A76748 AMER FICTN 1920/1930 MON DEC 14 1:00-4:00PM BH 237B76774 ARGUMENT FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM PH 125C76784 PROBLEMS MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM BH 237B76789 GRAMMAR ST WRIT ENG THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM PH A18B 76831 CUL CRIT AGE CHAUCER FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM BH 235A 76843 ONEILL/MILLER/WILLMS MON DEC 7 1:00-4:00PM BH 231A
HISTORY
79102 SHAPING WSTRN CIV TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM PH 100 79104 INTRO TO WORLD HIST TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM DH 2210, DH 2315, WEH 750079120 DEV OF AMER SOCIETY MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM PH 225C 79124 INDUSTRIAL AMERICA THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM PH 225C 79226 TCHNLGY WSTRN CIV THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM PH 225C 79231 RUS HST 1ST-LSTTSAR FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM BH 237B 79238 EARLY CHRISTIANITY TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM PH 225B 79275 HSTRY OF MOD WARFARE TUE DEC 15 1:00- 4:00PM PH 225C 79421 EUROPE IN TRANSITION MON DEC 14 1:00-4:00PM BH 235A
PHILOSOPHY
DESIGN
51160 HISTORY VISUAL ARTS TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM MM A14 51300 DES PRNCPLS:PLANNING TUE DEC 15 1:00-4:00PM MM A14 51340 PRODUCTION METHODS TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM MM All
MUSIC
80101 FRESHMAN SEMINAR MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM PII I26A 80200 KNOWLEDGE AND TRUTH MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM PH I25B 80210 INTRO LOGIC SLF PACE TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM PH 225C 80213 ARGUMENTS & INQUIRY MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM PI I I26C 80310 LOGIC COMPUTBLTY I THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM PH A18A 80710 LOGIC COMPUTBLTY I THU DEC 10 1:00-4:00PM PH A ISA 80713 ARGUMENTS & INQUIRY MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM PII I26C
57151 THEORY IA,B MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM CFA Ml57, CFA Ml60 C MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM MM 127 57173 SURVEY WEST MUS HIST TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM CFA M160, CFA M157 57204 18TH & 19TH C MUSIC THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM CFA Ml60 57223 THEORY III MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM CFA M160 57240 ACTING I THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM MM 11957332 INTRO TO CONDUCTING THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM CFA M157 57356 MUSIC IN SEC SCHOOLS MON DEC 7 5:30-8:30PM CFA M157 57360 BRASS METHODS MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM CFA M157 57459 SC RDG KYBD HARM I TUE DEC 8 1:00- 4:00PM CFA M16057843 PERF PR AC CONTROVERS MON DEC 7 1:00-4:00PM CFA Ml 5757844 WAGNER FRI DEC 11 1:00- 4:00PM CFA M16057856 MUSIC IN SEC SCHOOLS MON DEC 7 5:30-8:30PM CFA M157 57860 BRASS METHODS MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM CFA M157 57893 INTRO TO CONDUCTING THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM CFA Ml57
ART
60610 ARTS TIME WRLD CIV I MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM MM 103 60622 ART FROM 1965-PRES THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM DH 1112 60645 CRIT THEORY 1968-90 MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM PH A18A60660 ART HISTORY TOPIC MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM PH 125B60661 ART HISTORY TOPIC MON DEC 7 5:30-8:30PM PH A18A
H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARY 
66301 SCIENCE & CHRISTIAN MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM PH 126B
MODERN LANGUAGES
82101 ELEMENTARY FRENCH I FRI DEC 11 1:00-4:00PM PI I A18C82102 ELEMENTARY FRENCH II MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM PH A18B82103 SELF-PACED FRENCH MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM PH 225C82121 ELEMENTARY GERMAN I TUE DEC 15 1:00- 4:00PM ADAMSON82122 ELEMENTARY GERMAN II TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM PH 226C82123 SELF-PACED GERMAN MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM PH I26C82141 ELEMENTARY SPANISH I TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM P1I AI8B82142 ELEM SPANISH II MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM PH 226B82143 SELF-PACED SPANISH FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM PH AI8C 82161 ELEMENTARY ITALIAN I MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM PH A19 82191 ELEM RUSSIAN I TUE DEC 15 1:00-4:00PM BH 231A82201 INTERMED FRENCH I FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM PH 225C82202 INTERMED FRENCH II THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM PH 226B 82221 INTERMED GERMAN I FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM PH 226B 82241 INTERMED SPANISH I THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM PH 225C 82261 INTERMED ITALIAN I FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM PH 226C 82271 INTERMED JAPANESE I THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM PH 226B 82291 INTERMEDIATE RUSSIAN MON DEC 7 1:00-4:00PM PH A19 82301 ADVANCED FRENCH I TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM PI I A18A 82341 ADVANCED SPANISH I TUE DEC 15 1:00- 4:00PM PH 226C 82371 3RD YEAR JAPANESE THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM PH 226C 82429 GERMAN LIT 19TH C FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM BH 255A 82442 CNTMP SPOKEN SPANISH MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM BH 255A 82455 ST SPAN LAT AM LIT MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM BH 255A 82471 4TH YEAR JAPANESE MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM PH 226C 82582 SP TPC MOD LANG MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM PH 226C
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENTPSYCHOLOGY
TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM PH 100 THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM PH 125C70121 FINANC ACCOUNTING 70160 INTR GRA CMNCTNS I70311 ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR IA,B MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM MM A14 C MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM DH 120970312 ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR II MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM PH A18C 70332 GOVRNMNT & BUSINESS TUE DEC 8 1:00-4:00PM PH 125C 70335 BUSINESS AND LABOR MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM PH A18C70340 BUSINESS COMMUNCTNS C FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM ADAMSON 70361 FOUNDATIONS OF LAW MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM PH 125C 70363 LAW MDRN AMER SOC FRI DEC 11 1:00- 4:00PM WEH 5403 70365 INT TRADE & INT LAW TUE DEC 15 1:00- 4:00PM PH A18A 70371 PRODUCTION I MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM DH 2315 70381 MARKETING IA THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM ADAMSON B THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM PH 125C 70422 COST ACCOUNTINGA FRI DEC 11 1:00- 4:00PM SH 125 B FRI DEC 11 1:00- 4:00PM DH 1112 70451 MGMNTINFORMATN SYS FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM MM 103 70471 PRODUCTION II MON DEC 7 5:30- 8:30PM PH 125B 70481 MARKETING II MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM PH A18C 70491 FINANCE II THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM PH A18A 70493 DERIVATIV SECURITIES MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM PH A18B
ECONOMICS
73100 PRINC OF ECONOMICS THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM DH 2210, DH 2315, PH 100 73250 INTERMED MICROECONA,C MON DEC 14 1:00-4:00PM DH 2210B,D MON DEC 14 1:00-4:00PM DH 2315 73300 INTERMED MACRECONA TUE DEC 8 5:30-8:30PM PH A18B B,C TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM WEH 7500 73356 POL ECO PUBLIC INST THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM PH A18C 73360 ECONOMETRICSA TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM PH 126CB,C TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM WEH 7500 73372 INTNL MONEY/FINANCE TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM PH 125C 73420 MONETAR THEO POLICYB MON DEC 7 8:30-11:30AM PH A18B 73458 MONEY AND BANKINGB MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM PH 125C 73476 AMER ECONOMIC HSTRY THU DEC 10 5:30- 8:30PM BH 235B
85100 COG PROC THEO PRAC THU DEC 10 1:00- 4:00PM DH 2210, Dll 2315, ADAMSON85120 GENERAL PROGRAMMING MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM PH 225C 85211 COGNTV PSYCHOLOGY FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM PH 100 85218 NEUROPSYCHOLOGY MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM PH A18A 85221 PRINC CHILD DVLPMNT TUE DEC 15 1:00-4:00PM SI I 125 85241 SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM ADAMSON 85261 ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGY MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM PH 100 85310 RSCH MTHDS COG PSY TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM PH 225B 85320 RSCH MTHD DEV PSYCH MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM PH 225B 85340 RSCH MTHDS SOC PSY MON DEC 14 5:30- 8:30PM PH 225B 85380 HIST DEV EXP PSYCH TUE DEC 8 5:30- 8:30PM PH I25B 85390 HUMAN LEARN & MEMORY MON DEC 14 1:00- 4:00PM PH 225B 85411 COG PROC PROB SOLV MON DEC 14 5:30-8:30PM ADAMSON 85421 LANGUAGE & THOUGHT FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM PH 226C
SOCIAL AND DECISION SCIENCES
88104 DEC PROC AM POL INSA,C MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM DH 2315B,D MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM DH 221088200 STRUCT ANALY & DES MON DEC 7 1:00- 4:00PM ADAMSON 88220 POLICY ANALYSIS I THU DEC 10 8:30-11:30AM ADAMSON 88240 EMPIRCL RSCH METH I TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM PI I 225C 88260 ORGANIZATIONS TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM ADAMSON 88302 BEHAV DECSN MAKING TUE DEC 15 1:00- 4:00PM PH A21'88321 CAMPAIGNS/ELECTIONS FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM SH 422 88323 LEGISLATIVE PROCESS MON DEC 7 1:00-4:00PM PH 226C 88331 EUROPE IN TRANSITION MON DEC 14 1:00-4:00PM BH 235A 88342 MKT ORG BUS BEHAV FRI DEC 11 5:30- 8:30PM PH I25B 88721 CAMPAIGNS/ELECTIONS FRI DEC 11 8:30-11:30AM SH 422

---------------------------------------------------

10vto vuamul & Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosSoa p11h
Collateral damage caused by perfume
Continued from PERFUME, page 6
at the same time. The resulting static electricity sparks cause the flammable couple to explode, incinerating them and blowing a hole in the top of the elevator. I am miraculously unharmed, and I climb out through the hole to safety.Do these dreams reveal some irrational fear of perfume, cologne, and hairspray?Im pretty sure that they do, but I think I know whats been triggering them. In the past few weeks, Ive had a few too many instances of being caught in on-the-way-to-class crowds at 8:25 am and having trouble breathing because someone ahead of me got a little carried away with some personal care chemical.The perfume/cologne users probably just want to smell nice, but some of them
turn into overzealous commandos in a War of Scents. This war exacts a heavy price in collateral damage to the lungs and noses of people around them. They underestimate the strikingrange oftheir weapons. The victims of campus chemical warfare tend not to complain, since most of the warriors arent trying to cause harm, and the victims hate to offend them.The chemical warfare comparison seems more accurate when were talking about hairsprays, many of which smell surprisingly similar to certain variants of the insecticide Raid.When people douse their hair in bugspray, people like myself empathize with the insects in the TV commercials, who constantly live in fear of being gassed.When something as horrific as chemi
cal warfare is happening right here on campus, Im sure you can understand why I have nightmares. Maybe you have them, too. If you do, maybe you can think of a solution to the problem of chemical excess. Suggest it to your Student Senator.I cant think of many good solutions. Maybe if we had nice powder rooms in all of the academic buildings, people would be less inclined to go heavy on perfume and cologne at the beginning of the day. Maybe if more people had short, straight hair, the hairspray problem would evaporate.In the meantime, Ill just walk around campus wearing a gas mask.
Jeff Basista, a graduate student in 
English, is discussing his dreams with a 
qualified mental health professional.
oUnSe7iul, goSumo 7,,no,
Continued from REPUBLICANS, page 7bites that have made elections nothing more than marketing games. With depth and accuracy, he noted that Hillary Clinton was a radical feminist and therefore a destroyer of the family and family values.It is indeed unfortunate that many members of the campus community did not have the opportunity to see the fence. The very next day, those sorority girls, as David Hanekamp referred to them, painted a birthday wish on it. While I cant find any proof as of yet, Im sure that they used the birthday advertisement as a cover for their feminist, liberal, homosexual, secular humanist tactics of suppressing conservative speech.I, for one, am willing to stand up to
these promoters of moral depravity and congratulate the College Republicans for their courage and resolve. With witiness, grace, and determination, they have brought to light the important problems that this country must deal with if it is to regain its former glory.Some people proposed the idea of painting the fence red, white, and blue. Gentlemen, Im glad to see youre tackling the tough issues.
Christian M. Restifo is a senior 
chemical engineering major who will 
vote for Arlen Specter ... and he isnt 
kidding about this one. He recom
mends that anyone who takes this 
column seriously should join the Col
lege Republicans.
A PERSONS
OPINION
The campus computer 
clusters are one of the things 
that is really good about 
CMU. This is one of the only 
campuses around that has 
several, full-blown clusters. 
How do you feel about the 
campus computer clus
ters?
Larry Williams 
Graduate Student 
PublicPolicyandManagement
Its fine  Ive had no problems in the past with the campus computer clusters.
Colleen Riley
Sophomore
Art
CCONs are usually students who pay more attention to their friends than to their jobs.
Rita Vinod
Senior
Biology
CCONs areobnoxiousthey expect us to know everything, and if we dont, they laugh at us. I dont think theyre willing to help.
Adam Miller 
Senior
Computer Science
I think that there are entirely too many nerds in the clusters.
Ruth Rasmussen/Assistant Forum Editor
Albert Hong
JuniorIDS
I feel that the school admisistrators should aid the students by hiring more CCONs.
Opinionated? 
Hurt? Angry? 
Full of rage?
Send a Letter 
to the Editor.
Hi-Tech Careers Close to the Art.
When Adobe gave the world the PostScript" page-description language, we ushered in a new age of communication. This founding technology, which uniquely fused the artistry of typography with the genius of computer technology, solidified Adobe's position as the industry leader.
In addition, our application products for graphics professionals, including Adobe PhotoShop' and Adobe Illustrator'", continue to build market share. Today, we've begun to commit significant resources to the pursuit of technology and products that will enable people to exchange completely formatted documents, intact, across computer platforms, in short, Adobe has its finger on the pulse of tomorrow.
bEbQE OG vjE vEPjL4PR3 VvRGGDevelop microcode and software for a high performance outline font graphics coprocessor. Development will be done in a mixture of "C" language software and application- specific microcode running on a custom ASIC which scales and rasterizes outline fonts at very high performance levels (the Adobe*Type 1 Coprocessor). Requires BSCS/UK,MSCS/UK preferred. Familiarity with graphics software technology preferred.
bEbQEOGvjE vEPjL4PR3 VvRGGDesign, implement, debug, integrate, deliver, document and support a variety of functional elements of PostScript- l.evel-2 software for imagesetting environments. Degree in CS or Computer Kngineerlng or KK with significant software-oriented work; or in Mathematics with significant CS work. Advanced degree a plus.
Coursework and laboratory work in as many of the following areas as possible: Graphical
processing and rasterization for printed output of fonts, geometric forms or scanned images, graphic arts image processing, especially for color-separated output, communication protocols, real-time operating environment, embedded control systems, device drivers, porting, PostScript language programming, C programming language, AT&T UNIX development environment, software subsystem integration and assurance; systems analysis and troubleshooting at the integrated level and performance analysis/tuning.
In addition to summer inter-term or co-op style work experience with a commercial concern or entreprenurial work emphasizing software and systems is a plus. Key participation in realizing a commitment or in. producing a deliverable product with a small team of self-starters and the ability to work with a variety of groups and/or organizations are equally important.
PLEASE SION UPTO MEET WITH US ON
bOLBRY) OPvOQE T)p11hAdobe offers an outstanding compensation package. If you miss us, please send resume or letter to: Adobe Systems Incorporated, P.O. Box 7900,Mountain View, CA 94039.We are an Kqual Opportunity Kmployer.
Adobe SystemsIncorporated
Qa5ugIu9 um mto
November 17 thru November 22,1992
January 5 thru January 10,1993
Gnem5l
7, QuiC
Of
Je! Siegei Stro
mMh
T0DAY'S MUSICAL
events.)
7cN,*a
Subscribe Now by Calling: kT~h~fd jQWe
L March 9 thru  March 14,1993
For groups of 20 or more call: 471-6930.Spomured by Mtlti Inc. Foundation
Broadway al the Fulton, sponsored by Miles Inc. Foundation, is presented by the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust & ACE Theatrical G;oup li=.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
bol:, ,5iioa a5ee7l8
5sol:, ,5iioa cuee, m5 
Pue7c5al7u Dl7Moa,7m9
PRESS PASS
by Paul Platosh
vto mano
cul,
Standing on the comer of Forbes and Smithfield, I waited to catch the 54C back to school. It was a particularly cold evening last December, and I made a mental note to get back to campus and check the score in the Penguins - Capitals game.Rubbing my hands together, I looked across the street at a local watering hole, that seemed to be having a convention. Apparently the Daughters of the American Revolution were holding their monthly meeting, and through the windows, I caught a glimpse of the game on the TV above the bar. The Pens had lost 6-4.While I was rubbing my hands with glee and thinking of the many possible ways I could add insult to injury, the doors to the bar were flung open and two old women bedecked in Penguins paraphenalia teetered unsteadily in the threshold of the doorway. Ah, I thought to myself, two Pens superfans.This ought to be good. Climbing down the stairs, the two gripped each others arms to keep from falling down.Mildred, this road is soooo crooked, one of the ladies said.I swear her name was Mildred. She was in rare form. Liquored up like a true hockey fan, the Penguins pins that covered her jersey clinked together as the pair navigated the road crossing.
Margaret, I cant see ... I need my glasses, the other crooned. So Mildred had hit the punch bowl too. I didnt think that her glasses would have helped her now.Mildreds jersey was just as worn as Margarets. Some old players name written in gold letters faded to a kind of sickly yellow was stitched to the back.I had never heard of him, and hes probably already dead.Finally the two made it 
across the street, and stood wobbling next to me at the bus stop.
Stevens played very well tonight.... Hes such a nice boy, Mildred spoke with a kind of glazed look in her eye.Yes these were true hockey superfans. Two old women with not much else but hockey in their veins (and a little Southern Comfort). I felt humbled in their presence, the kind of feeling youd get when you look at the Mona Lisa. These were fans that followed the Penguins before Stanley Cup glory came to the Steel City. They were probably fans of the original Pittsburgh Hockey Club, before the Penguins.
And you can tell right off the bat if a fan is a true fan or if they followed the team because the players are now all wearing Stanley Cup rings. And its always these pseudo-fans who go nuts when you criticize their team. Real fans bear themselves with quiet dignity, through good times and bad times. They dont feel the need to defend the teams actions. After all, Theyre all such nice boys.
I decided to keep my mouth shut. Mildred and Margaret, I salute you.
Tartan Junior Staff writer Paul 
Platosh is a sophomore profes
sional and creative writing ma
jor.
By ERIC STRAUSSTartan Staffwriter
Once we scored the first goal, the game was over, coach Nick Gaudioso said of the Tartan Mens Soccer Teams 3-0 victory over a fledgling Point Park College team last Wednesday.The Tartans dominated the game everywhere but on the scoreboard in the first half, and when sophomore Pat Lucignani tallied his second career goal with 16 minutes remaining in the half, the game was indeed over.I think the problem with those kind of games is that youre worried about just getting one goal at first, Gaudioso said.We were missing shots, missing goals, and they were getting confident. I was getting a little frustrated, but once we scored, they werent going to score.Gaudioso explained his teams early nervousness, which caused them to capitalize on only three of 23 shots.No doubt they were looking past them. Of course they were. Its hard not to. Its a new program, and they played the right way.They played for one goal, and had they got that, who knows what might have happened.In this kind of situation [with CMU the overwhelming favorite] you [the coach] want to get that one goal, and once you get that one goal, everything settles down. No doubt I was pushing them [the Tartans] so the hype came from me. I knew eventually they [Point Park] would give in.Point Park played a very defensive game, with coach Richard Albarano utilizing the time honored underdog strategy  try to shut out the other team, and
hope you get lucky on offense.It didnt work.Point Park managed only a pair of sustained offensive attacks, and managed to get off only one shot on goal, and CMU junior goalkeepers Dave Shapiro and D an Warren did not have to make a save the entire game. ^However, Point Park did stay in the game for quite a while, as CMU had a difficult time converting on their shooting opportunities. Five minutes after Lucignani scored, senior John Stivoric tallied a goal, and 10 minutes into the second half, sophomore Alex Amezquita sealed the game.Lucignani scored after a
scramble in the penalty area, when Amezquita won the ball and dished it into the center, where Lucignani slammed the ball off a Point Park defender and into the goal, with the deflection wrong-footing Pioneer goalie Paul Zeise.Amezquita racked up his second assist when he sent a long pass from the corner in front of the goal, where Stivoric headed it past a diving Zeise.Sophomore Vince Russell returned the favor for Amezquita, hanging a corner kick in the zone, where Amezquita outjumped a defender and headed the ball into the net.
By Gary Wilson
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The girls soccer team dropped another close game this week.They were defeated 3-1 in overtime by California University. According to coach Julie Shackford, It was a well fought game on both ends.The Tartans opened up the scoring by capitalizing on a free luck.The goalie got a piece of the ball, sending it off the crossbar. The rebound came out to freshman Christina Isaly who knocked it in for the 1-0 lead.With seven minutes remaining in the half, California took a corner kick. The Tartan defense left a girl open, resulting in a goal and a 1-1 game at the half.The second half went the same way with chances at both ends.The few chances we did have, we didnt convert on, commented Shackford. After fourty-five minutes of play, the scored remained tied.Shackford attributed some of the defenses success to senior defenseman Sonya Chmielnicki.She was given the assignment of covering Californias leading scorer, Kim Kottmeier.Also, it was Chmielnickis first full game back from an injury,Though she was still not at 100 sively.
percent, she did a fine job of shutting down Kottmeier.The game went into overtime and the referee began to play his whistle like french horn, calling everything in sight. 8:25 intoO.T., this rampage of fouls cost the Tartans the game. California scored on a free kick, giving them the lead. From that point on, the team broke down and fell apart. Later in overtime, California added another goal on a free kick to end the scoring at 3-1.The team has a tough schedule ahead, as it prepares to face Seton Hill College on Wednesday. Seton Hill is ranked nationally in the NAIA. Last season, the Tartans lost a defensive battle to Seton Hill, 1-0. They are looking to play the same kind of game this timp as well. The Tartans are also looking at a difficult road trip next weekend, facing two of the sections toughest teams. On Frij* day they face Brandeis before going against first place Rochesr ter on Sunday.Though the team has facod a difficult season thus far, it is stay? ing optimistic. Says Shackford! Weve had our chances, wo just havent gotten a lucky bronk.f She continues, The girls are hanging in there and doing wolli We just need to tighten up dofon*
5sol:, ia5,, i5nlma9 
owUoa7olio, nU, ulg g5Il,
Mens soccer players at work in their 3-0 victoryAnne Lopez/Tartan Photographer
By ALIZA HILDEBRAND and 
ANDY GLENDINNING
Special to the Tartan and 
Assistant Sports Editor
The womens cross country team returned victorious from the University of Pittsburgh- Johnstown Invitational, where they met against Fairmont State University, University of Pitt.- Johnstown and a few girls from Washington and Jefferson. The other teams finished in that order.Freshman Missy Baustert finished first in 21:03 and junior Aliza Hildebrand took second in 21:17. Coming in fourth was senior Wendy Evans (22:00), sixth was junior Cynthia Kolanowski
(22:25), 10th was junior Jodi Pic-r colo (23:14), while senior Colleen Barkley sprinted to the finish at a time of23:33 taking 11th place;All six girls received t-shirts ad awards, and were very happy wii li the results of the meet.However, the Tartans didnt do as well at the Dickinson College Invitational on Saturday. The team came in fourth in a field of' six teams with a score of 103; losing to Getteysburgh: whofinished with a score of 35. ;Individually, Aliza Hildebrand, finished 10th with a time of20:04.; Missy Baustert came in 16th; (20:43), Wendy Evans 22nd, (21:06), Cynthia Kolanowski 24th! (21:18), and Colleen Barkley 33st (22:05)
PbD iaoI sugo 855g ,t5I7l8ff um joug 5c mto Ot75 o8ummu
By SARAH GIBBY
Special to the Tartan
On Saturday Pittsburgh hosted its annual Head of the Ohio Regatta, opening the start of the 1992 fall season of rowing races. Among the schools in attendance were: Carnegie MellonUniversity, Cornell, MIT, Brown, Notre Dame, Ohio State, University of Pittsburgh, Michigan State, Mercyhurst College, Loyola College, Dowling College, University of Tennessee at Chatanooga, Grand Valley College, Brock College, (a Canadian crew) and several crew clubs, including the Three Rivers Rowing Association.Carnegie Mellon entered eight boats and had over 42 different people rowing for the team which, as Coach Liz Winter said, is a good start to the season. Commenting further she added, taking ino consideration that we a third division school and rowed against some first dicision crew sxuch as Brown, Cornell and MIT, we made a good showing. If fact, iw would be like CMUs football team playing a first division school such as Penn State.Of the eight boats entered, the Mens Club eight boat medaled withabronze at a time of12:03.73, just a mere five seconds behind Duquesne, who won the race in a time of 11:58.63. The Rowers were graduate students Glenn Pasecwicz, Chris McConnell, and John Cosek, CMU staff members Randy Simmons and Chris Fet
ter, sophomores Soren Roth and 
John Pasecwicz, and alumnus Bill Posega, with coxswain Senior Opal Perry.In the womans division the Open Eight placed seventh our of eleven at a time of 13:46.76 with Cornell taking first. Coach Winter remarked, An excellent performance. It was the first time that we rowed a crew up in the Open divison, as opposed to the club division. A very promising transition for us. Rowers for the boat were Perry,alumni, Dorie Martin, Susan Engleert, Anna Loney, Ann Caretto, Lui^i Grauel, Martha Moran, graduate student Julia Evans, with coxswain Molly Johnson.The mens lightweight A boat palced fifth at a time of 12:19.90 against Cornell who won the race. Of them, Winter replied, they had an excellent row. Rowers were, Fetter, sophomore Kevin Luczkow, senior Dave Shin, senior Tom Cillogly, freshman Howard Meisner, alumnus Eugene Zilberstein, alumnus Bill Posega, and Simmons, with Perry as coxswain.A Womens Club eight was entered and finished eight out of ten at a time of 14:18.35 with MIT winning the race. As our B boat theydid just fine considering it was our second boat and carrying the CMU banner, responded Coach Winter. Rowers were, senior Sarah Gibby, graduate student Jennifer Braun, sophomore Kersten Buttler, junior Katarina Midelfort, graduate
student Lara Wolfson, sophomore 
Amy Lefkowitz, and sophomore Julia Kuo, with senior Asha Puttaiah as coxswain.As for the boats with four rowers in them, known as fours in rowing terminology, coach Winter classified them as non-prior- ity boats, for they had never practiced together as crews.The mens lightweight four A boat finished in ninth place at a time of 14:00.96 in a race that Cornell took first place in. Rowing in the boat were Posega, Simmons, Shin, and alumnus Darryl Kauric.The mens lightweight four B boat came in at a time of14:35.05. Its rowers were Zilberstein, freshman Jeff Ku, graduate student Tse-Sung Wu, and alumnus Arthur Mcnair with King as coxswain. The womens club four A boat clocked in at a time of 16:10.58 and placed 16th. Rowers were: Gibby, Kuo, Wolfson, and sophomore Karen Knepper with Puttaiah a coxswain.The womens club four B boat placed 14th at a time of 15:43.27 while Three Rivers Rowing team won the race overall. Rowers were Braun, King, Midelfort, and senior Beth Ward with Puttaiah as coxswain.Coach Winter summed up the results of the Head of Ohio by saying, We rowed against some third division crews who we see at the Dadvail in the Spring. We made a good showing and it is definitely a good start to the season.
Sarah Gibby/Special to the Tartan 
Mens lightweight eight rows into fifth place on Saturday

---------------------------------------------------

RQQOvv 3RQORvO4EV
bR.E YOD 
bO'E Rv RQQOvv
bulu8osolm 
BoMoe5Usolm za58aus
Abbott Laboratories is looking for some of the best students on campus. We're a 
Fortune 100 corporation dedicated to the discovery, development, manufacture, 
sale, and distribution of diverse healthcare products and services worldwide. 
Soon we will be holding interviews for our Management Development Program - 
one of the finest ways to learn and advance within Abbott.
Abbott Will Make 
A Program Presentation On:PRODUCT MANAGEMENT IN THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY
Date: Wednesday, Sept. 30,1992 
Time: 12:30pm - 1:30pm 
Place: GSIA Simon Auditorium 
We Will Be Recruiting On Campus: 
Tuesday, Oct. 27,1992
P5lmuim 95na zeuiosolm Occ7io c5a gomu7e,A
We are located 30 miles north of Chicago. If unable to attend, please send your 
resume and transcript to: Corporate Staffing, Dept. SCS, Abbott Laboratories, 
One Abbott Park Rd., Abbott Park, IL 60064. Abbott is an Affirmative Action 
Employer/Smoke-Free Environment.
ABBOTT LABORATORIES
jouemt Puao 
5aegI7go
p222p11h
6nue7m9

---------------------------------------------------

vto vuamul y Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosSoa p11hpH
SPORTS IN SEASON
TOUCH FOOTBALL
CommissionersMajors  Buddy Feitt, x5371Intermediate  Kerry Skolkin,x5302Minors  Jim Saxon, x5482 Women Only  Molly McDermott, 682-3529 Standings are posted on the IM bulletin board. Please be sure to play all games as scheduled. More officials are still needed.
TENNIS
Commissioner Jon Ferris, x5502 Please play two singles matches and one doubles match at the same time. Report your winning scores to the commissioner.
GOLF
Commissioner Dave Ekem, x5354 The 1992 E. J. Birdy Open IM Golf Tournament was held on September 20. All scores must be turned in to the IM Office by 4:30 pm on October 1.
CHESS
Commissioner Buddy Feitt, x5371 Entries were due on September 17. Check the IM bulletin board for your match schedule. Report your match scores to the commissioner.
WATER POLO
Commissioners
IM News
Mike Kappus, x5302 Joanne Kievan, x5900 Entries were due on September 24. Check the IM bulletin board for match schedules and practice times. The IM Department would like to start a co-rec water polo league. Any interested teams should sign up in the IM Office. Entries are due on Thursday.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALLCommissioners Majors  Ed Pyo, x5515 Minors  Jim Saxon, x5482 Schedules and rules can be picked up in the IM Office. Please play all games as scheduled. Remember if the ball is hit more than once on your side of the net, a female must play the ball before it crosses the net.The co-rec volleyball playoffs will begin on Thursday. Check the Intramural bulletin board or contact the IM Office at x2193 or x2214.
UPCOMING SPORTS
CROSS COUNTRY
Commissioner Buddy Feitt, x5371 The 1992 Carnegie Mellon IM Cross Country meet will be held on October 14 starting on Flagstaff Hill at 4:30 pm. The course is 1.9 miles long. You may run as a five-person team or as an individual. There will be a special heat for women only (four-person teams or individuals). Everyone
is welcome.
SOCCER
CommissionersMajors  Buddy Feitt, x5371Intermediate  Dave Ekern,x5354Minors  John Stack, 361-0274 Women Only - Molly McDermott, 682-3529 Entries are due at 4:30pm on October 8. All teams must attend the soccer rules clinic at 4:30 pm on October 8 in the small gym. Anyone interested in officiating for IM soccer should call Assistant IM Director Mike Mastroian- ni at x2193 for more information.
BOWLING
Commissioner Buddy Feitt, x5371 Matches will be rolled on the Forward Lanes on Forward Avenue in Squirrel Hill.
VOLLEYBALL
CommissionersMajors  Buddy Feitt, x5371Intermediate  Dave Ekern,x5354Entries for six-person teams are due at 4:30 pm on October 8.
BUSINESS
The next Intramural Board meeting will be held this Thursday at 12:30 pm in the IM Office.
Compiled by 
ANDY GLENDINNING
Now Forming:
ObELV
EVv34LN
P3DQ
y G5a Roa5S7i 5aC5nm 
y.ooU Q5g9 v5log
0 3oual VoecBocol,o
SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS WHO NEED
bOLEY GO PO33ENEEvery student is eligible for some type of financial aid regardless of grades or parental income.
PObzEjELV4'E BRvRQRVE/ Ona gumu Su,o 5c 5Moa hdd)ddd e7,m7l8, 5c ,it5eua,t7U, ulg 
8aulm, aoUao,olm 5Moa pd S7ee75l 4l Ua7Mumo ,oim5a c7luli7ue u7gA
bRLY RRBV/ Vit5eua,t7U, uao uMu7euSeo m5 ,mngolm, Su,og 5l mto7a iuaooa Ueul,) cus7e9 
toa7mu8o ulg uiugos7i 7lmoao,m,A
DL46DE EVERPj/ Ona ao,ouait goUuamsolm tu, e5iumog sul9 ,it5eua,t7U, 
7lieng7l8 uIcag, c5a loI,UuUoa iuaa7oa,/ 8a5ioa9 ieoaC,) itooaeougoa, ulg l5l,s5Coa,A IRJESUO-TS QUAWANTEED.nai  ANYTIME FOR A FREE BROCHURE
2dd^ h2H2~ddS' IH
y buCo Ewmau b5lo9
vauMoe m5 Omtoa PenS,) EwUol,o, zu7g 
y 7l Pu,t za7(o,
PR33 GO 4LGObRv4OL
~1T2hTT
V'UA.
Save

 
c=^r-T-T....
I - !", H
Apple Macintosh PowerBook' 145 4/40 Apple Macintosh Classic IIApple Macintosh I.C IIApple Macintosh'lisi
Qn9 5lo 5c mto,oA
|C0RRECTEARNSSNR
ResumWriter
'f
Calendar
Creator
Nom uee 5c mto,oA
Get over f400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the aid like this is only available through October IS, 1992 - and 
Apple' Macintosh' computers shown above at our best prices ever. only at your authorized Apple campus reseller.
And if vou are interested in financing options, be sure to ask for ^ K . . . , ,
details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student vto buPe7emOVt VmDP7o7em RePe zuiCu8oA 
For more information visit the Carnegie Mellon Computer Store or call 268-2636

---------------------------------------------------

/
J^5 4 cuCo vRo fticrob/olo89 of Potentially i 
zum.58olKi Qoc,-Hemolytic VmaoUm5i5ii7A 
Oa vto F M5 4 W\75l 5c mto c7mnumK5l P?sog9A 
B5 4 aouee9 Iut\ m5 e7Mo I7\t |ng9 mto 
loum caouC87t4 iul\ SoeKoMo 4'o 
85m Dt\7e b5lgu9 m0 goi7go 7c 4s u Q75e589 
5a u vtoumao aluW5aA juMo p P5sUeomoe9 e5,m 
7m  7ee 4 oMoa So uSeo to suCo H goi77K5l) 
u8u7l 'KuKY H iwhute, WnKc 9oKcoagu9WIu7 
uSeo \5 pick u Ut5lo i5sUul9 I7mt 
uS,5enmoe9 l5 Ua5SeosAAAJ5)mtoao 7> t5Uo
ith AT&T, choosing a phone company is easy 
Because when you sign up for AT&T Student Saver 
Plus, you can pick from a complete line of products 
and services designed specifically to fit your needs while youre 
in college. Whatever they may be.
Our Reach Out Plans can save you money on AT&T Long Distance, 
no matter where and when you call. Call Manager will separate your
/+uden+ JaverpK 
for off-Campu/ 
. r/TanP/h
AT&T Long Distance calls from the ones your roommates make. 
And the AT&T Calling Card makes it easy to call from almost 
anywhere to anywhere. Also, when you sign up for AT&T, your 
first call is free*
And with AT&T, youll get the most reliable long distance service. 
AT&T Student Saver Plus. Its the one college decision thats easy 
to make.
If youre an off-campus student, sign up for 
mr Student Saver Plus by calling 1800 654-0471 Ext. 851.RvFv
Pb Ab4vA bSnee slo 4^ RvFv 3B Poam7c7qm iql 5c g7aim gnA us7 e5 iune) leWc77 7lg I7lM7 iuee7l8 m5s7 5l anl icelmI ~ flfll jn uneg 8om so|3 Occoa e7smmig 10 inm is7c57i Uoa b7

---------------------------------------------------

vto vuamul & Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosSoa p11hpT
Officials dont deserve union
NFL FOOTBALL
by Dave Martin
. I really hate the Dallas i Cowboys, and the Miami Dol- 'phins, for that matter. I have always hated them. I used to hate the Oakland/Los Angeles Raiders. Im learning to dislike the Washington Redskins, but all this negative feeling towards sports Iteams is inconsequential. When ;two teams take the field, theres ireally only one group I really despise, and thats the officials.Im sure if you bother watching ;any sport with teams, youve learned that there are teams you like, teams you dislike, and then there are the officials, whom you !root for to get demolished by some giantlineman, or whom you laugh at when a running back jukes right into the poor guy standing on the sideline. When you think about it, the treatment of NFL officials is pretty cruel. Theyre respected, at least somewhat, but Im sure they get insulted more regularly than most people. And in this light, maybe it makes sense to create an NFL officials union.These guys get to go out on the football field every week and risk life and limb and personal security every time they make a bad call. So, for reasons that havent really been stated here thus far, they are trying to pull 
one over on the NFL owners and create an organization that will ;makelifeeasierforthem. Nomore ;two day trips for people who live ,in Tampa Bay to preside over a 'game in Green Bay between the Packers and the Colts, or some such nonsense.One good point to the possible formation of an NFL officials union is that they might go out of
their way to get injured, or create an injury on the field. (One can imagine that one of the benefits to getting hit on the field might be a couple weeks at home, paid for by the National Football League.) This would make for some rather amusing scenes during a game. I can see my least favorite referee, Jerry Markbreit, watching Tim Harris about to crush Bobby Hebert, and decide that he hasnt spent enough time at home and rush to Heberts rescue, pushing Hebert away at the last moment, only to be picked up and slammed to the surface at Candlestick Park. Of course, the Saints would score on this play, but at least Jerry wouldnt be out there screwing things up and making a nuisance of himself.In a related vein, NFL viewers may have noticed that there is no instant replay this year. (There is a God!) Need I say that Im overjoyed by this fact. Okay, Im overjoyed by this fact. I believe human error keeps the hatred of the vile officials alive, and that the testing of such a thing as instant replay is a foolish idea. Mistakes made by the officials rarely swing seasons. But one could imagine that it could. Say the Cowboys are two wins away from the play-offs with only two games left in the regular season and one of their receivers catches a pass in the end zone, but the officials dont see it that way. They lose the game. But its just that little twinge of Darwinian luck that makes life interesting, especially in sports.Philadelphia probably would have done very well, challenged the Redskins even, if Randall Cunningham hadnt been injured in the first game of last season. And this year, the Eagles were again expected to rise to the occasion and be a contender, but life left one of their premier defensive linemen, Jerome Brown. They may still do extremely well. But their chances would be just a wee bit higher had Brown not.
been killed. And it is this same chance of error that gives some teams wins and some teams losses. The officials are often the form of that error. That error had left for a while, but now its back and I embrace it.Speaking of error, I looked back at my first week of predictions, which was on the second week of NFL action, and I found that I did quite well. Id chalk it up to chance and happenstance, but I think Id prefer to call it skill and a very analytic mind that led me to the choices I made. Of the first 14 games I made predictions for, I got 12 of them right. I guess that will happen more often as the season goes on, and I lose track of whats going on.As for this weeks predictions, however, well see. Take Buffalo over Miami. Denver over Kansas City in a tough game at Mile High Stadium. Tampa behind Coach Wyche over the hapless Colts.The Raiders are having quarterback problems. The Giants are having coaching trouble, and theyre getting old. Take the Giants anyway. Take the Jets over the Patriots. Neither San Diego or Seattle is playing well. Take the Chargers, they have more potential.Atlanta should beat an ailing Packers team. Chicago over division rival Minnesota (the Bears have got to pull one out for me eventually). Detroit in the Silverdome over New Orleans. San Francisco over the Rams at Candlestick. The Redskins shouldnt have a problem with the Cardinals.And tonights game is one of those uncertain games. The Rams are struggling early under new head coach Chuck Knox while the Chiefs are still adapting to the new year. Take the Chiefs at home, 24-20.Thats it for this week. Be sure to yell at an official this weekend, even if theyve made the right call.
PRINCIPLES of SOUND RETIREMENT INVESTING
IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF THROUGH RETIREMENT.
Think about supporting yourself for 
twenty-five, thirty years or longer 
in retirement. It might be the greatest 
financial test youll ever face. Fortunately, 
you have one valuable asset in your 
favor. Time.
Time to take advantage of tax-deferral. 
Time for your money to grow.
But starting early is key. Consider this: 
ifyou begin saving just $100 a month at 
age thirty, you can accumulate $192,539* 
by the time you reach age sixty-five.
Wait tenyears and youd need to set aside 
S2127 a month to reach the same goal.
At TIAA-CREF) we not only under
stand the value of starting early, we 
can help make it possiblewith flexible 
retirement and tax-deferred annuity 
plans, a diverse portfolio of investment 
choices, nd a record of personal 
service that spans 75 years.
Over a million people in education 
and research are already enrolled in 
Americas largest retirement system. 
Find out how easy it is to join them. Call 
today and learn how simple it is to put 
yourself through retirement when you 
have time and TIAA-CREF on your side.
Start planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it!M
Ajjumin ainte reit rate of 7.5% credited to TIA A Retirement Annuities Tbi< rale is wed solely to show the power and effect of compounding. Lower produce i 'cry different results. CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services.
Club Fencing
CMU sophomores Randy Bruno, Nina Liang, and Brian Ondrey along with freshman Mike Lin competed in an unrated USFA foil tournament at Pine Richland High School on September 19. First place was awarded to Bogdan Haiko (unattached), second place to Randy Bruno (CMU Fencing Club), and third place to Bob Gourmley (Engarde Fencing Club). The final fence off of direct eliminations was Bruno 5-3, Haiko 5-3, Haiko 6-4. Haiko received an E-rating in the USFA for his first place victory.Volleyball
CMU senior Lisa Leonardo was named to the Washing ton & Lee University All-Tournament team for her performance on September 18 and 19. Leonardo, who recorded 44 kills in the two-day tournament, led the Tartans to a second place finish. Carnegie
Sports Shorts
Mellon defeatod Maryville College, Goucher Colloge, Washington & Jefferson College, and the University of the South, finishing with a 4-2 record in the tournament The Tartans were defeated by Washington & Leo and the University of the South in the championship match.More recently, the Tartans fell to Grove City College on Tuesday by a score of 3-0. The individual game scores were 15-17, 2-15, and 11-15.Mens crosscountry
The Tartans did well at the Dickinson College Invitational on Saturday, finishing second with a score of 34 on a 8000 meter track. CMU junior Jim Langer, who was named UAA mens cross country athlete of the week, finished first with a time of 26:08. Other finishers were freshman Matt Beam (sixth place, 26:55), senior Scott Phillips (seventh
Mens soccer
The Tartan men's soccer team ran its record to 'wc on the soason by rolling to a big H1v win over Franklin & Marshall on Saturday, as sophomore Alex Amezquita continued his hot shootingby tallying a pairofgoals. Fellow CMU sophomore Pat Lucignani scored the other goal to back junior Dave Shapiros shutout.The game started real slow because it was really wet, junior Min Chong said, but after about10 minutes, we started to just dominate them. It was really a domination. We played exactly how we wanted to play.Although F&M is a non-league opponent, the victory is an important one for possible playoff rankings, as F&M is an Eastern Region team like the Tartans.
NEEDED IMMEDIATEL Y : 
STUDY SKILLS TUTORS
Undergraduate students are needed to provide individual and small group study 
skills tutoring to other CMU undergraduates. Topics include time management, 
lecture note-taking, reducing test anxiety, and test-taking skills. Hours are 
flexible. Some evening and weekend hours necessary. You musl have a good 
academic record and be willing to share your knowledge of effective study 
practices with students in all colleges. Training will be provided. To apply, call 
Marcia or Kim at X6878 or send e-mail to mw2v @ andrew.
classified
JOBSSERVICES
$200-5500 weekly. Assemble products 
at home. Easy! No selling. You're paid 
direct. Fully guaranteed. Free Informa
tion-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2900. 
Copyright # PA11KDH.
Earn $1,500 weekly mailing our 
circulars!... Begin now! ... Free packet! 
SEYS, Dept. 256, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 
38018-4000.
Greenpeace. The future is how! We are 
training women and men to build public  
support in Arizona. Learn and implement 
effective activist strategies. Excellent 
work environment, benefits, medical 
insurance and great advancement 
opportunities. Earn $190-$250/week, 
full-time, part-time, flexible scheduling. 
Call Tony, 421-7344.
Technical consultant needed for local 
growing software firm. Responsibilties 
include providing technical support to 
clients using our psychology experimentgenerator software package. Require
ments include working knowledge of 
psychology and DOS. Research and 
programming experience a plus. Parttime position with potential for full-time. 
Recent graduates and soon-to-be 
graduates encouraged to apply. 
Transportation required. Send resume 
and cover letter detailing psychology 
and computer experience to:
Psycholoogy Software Tools, 511 
Bevington Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15221.
QN CAMPUS JOBS
Campus reps wanted. Heatwave 
vacations. Spring break 1993. The best 
rates & the biggest commissions. For 
more information, call 800-395-wave.
QOURSE INFO
Dissertation group, ongoing, to add 
members in October. To facilitate 
productivity and creativity, discuss the 
subjective aspects of this process. Private, 
low-fee. For info, interview, call 421 - 
3715, Dr. Singh.
Work group forming in October, to 
facilitate productivity and creativity on 
large projects undertaken after graduate 
school. Modelled after Dissertation 
Group that I have run for a number of 
years. For info, interview, call 421-3715, 
Dr. Singh.
Oakland, 1 block from the "O", 1 BR, 
LR, DR, storage, laundry, immediate, 
$412 +electric, 6820023.
Partys - Formals - Birthdays - Love. 
Alex's flowers - 687-4128 - Group 
Discounts - Delivery - Corsages start at 
$3.00 - Corner Craig and Bayard - 687- 
Alex. 687-Alex.
TRAVEL
Low student and faculty fares to 
international destinations. **Good fares 
within the USA. **AYH & Eurail passes.** 
Experienced, friendly service. Hours 9-5 
pm Monday-Friday/10 am-noon 
Saturday. Convenient location: 4608 
Winthrop St. off South Craig St. Call 
Forum Travel 681-4099.
Spring break '93-sell trips, earn cash & 
go free!!! Student Travel Services is now 
hiring campus representatives. Ski 
packages also available. Call 1-800-648- 
4849.
Travel free!! Sell the most reliable spring 
break packages! Jamaica, Cancn, 
Bahamas, Florida! Best commissions/ 
service! Sun Splash Tours 1-800-426- 
7710.
VOLUNTEER
Attention female students and staff. 
Researchers at the University of Pitts
burgh and Magee Women's Hospital are 
conducting a study of how a women's 
hormones influence their responses to 
stress. Blood pressure, heart rate and 
blood samples will be taken at several 
visits over 8 months. Non-smoking 
caucasian women, ages 20-35 years old 
with regular menstrual cycles and not 
taking oral contraceptives are needed to 
participate in this study. Participants will 
receive important health information and 
monetary compensation. For more 
information, please call Leslie at 624- 
7423.
Classified Policy
Deadline
Jgr5namg lOp P/CdaPPaOm Ol 
RnrPPalag5P TO Dsg DrpTrm aP z 
Kd Tsg Ds/pP5rS CglOpg K/CW
naRrTaOmB
Rates
c1tv 2Op5PBBBBBBBBBBBBUzBvv Kgp
2ggI
tc1zv 2Op5PBBBBBBBBBBU:Bvv Kgp
2ggI
zv1cvv 2Op5PBBBBBUcvBvv Kgp
2ggI
xMnrPPalag5P d/PT Cg Kra5 
CS RrPs Op RsgRI CglOpg Tsg 
lapPT PRsg5/ng5 p/m 5rTgB
xNm1RrdK/P 5gKrpTdgmTP 
rm5 OpFrmafrTaOmP drS KrS 
CS QO/pmrn TprmPlgp 2aTs r 
-rna5 rRRO/mT m/dCgpB
xMnrPPalag5P rpg mOT P/CQgRT TO 
5aPRO/mTP rKKnaRrCng TO 
5aPKnrS r5PB
xMnrPPalag5P pgrRs r 2a5g 
r/5agmRgB
Egm5 SO/p r5 2aTs 
KrSdgmT TO5rSB 
Egg SO/p r5 am 
KpamT mgoT 2ggI
The Tartan Publishing Schedule
October 5 
October 19 
October 26 
November 2 
November 9 
November 16 
November 23
All submisions for publica
tion must be received the 
Thursday before publication 
along with payment.
Compiled by 
ANDY GLENDINNING j 
and ERIC STRAUSS
vjEvRvRL 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

(ft
v5na, 
Gaulio
EgKTgdCgp tHV ckkt
Rl 5Uol eommoa m5 PbD ,mngolm,/
6 PKgRarn PgRTaOm Ol ZeD,NJ4MDZNe DN u6Dh,Z6iE EMZheMh yt"1cHc0
2ann Cg Tr/FsT am DO/pPV AprmRg am Tsg PKpamF Ol ckkHB
Dsg RrTrnOF 5gPRpaKTaOm Ol t"1cHc aP 2paTTgm am PTrm5rp5 MZD KpOPgV rm5 TO drmS PT/5gmTP 
d/PT nOOI naIg rmOTsgp 5/nnV Fp/mT rm5 Fpam5 gmFamggpamF RO/pPgB EOdg Ol Tsg cvv Op PO gmFamggpP 
2sO TrIg aT g-gpS PgdgPTgp mO 5O/CT TsamI aT aPB yZ sr-g AMh ROddgmTP 2sgpg aT 2O/n5 Cg srp5 TO 
daPP TsaP -ag20B Nm Tsg OTsgp srm5V drmS OTsgpP rpg amTpaF/g5 CgRr/Pg Ol Tsg pOng drTgparnP KnrS am 
O/p na-gPB Z sr-g Cggm Fa-amF ROmPa5gprCng TsO/FsT rP TO sO2 TO FgT mOm1gmFamggpPV 2sO rpg naIgnS TO 
Cg 5OdamrmT am DO/pPV TO 5aPRO-gp Tsg lrPRamrTaOm Ol drTgparnPB
Z Knrm TO lOR/P Om Tsg saPTOpS Ol drTgparnP 2saRs srP ROmTpOnng5 am nrpFg KrpT Yr5-rmRgPq ylOp 
FOO5 Op g-an0 am Ra-anafrTaOm rP mg2 KpO5/RTPV KpORgPPgP Op lrRanaTagP CgROdg r-ranrCngB Dsg ETOmg 
6FgV Tsg pOmfg 6FgV Tsg ZpOm 6FgV rm5 y2aTs dO5gd ROdd/maRrTaOmP0 Tsg EanaROm 6Fg pgPKOm5g5 
am nrpFg KrpT TO Tsg OKKOpT/maTagP dr5g KOPPaCng CS Tsgap 5OdamrmT drTgparnB LramTamF rm5 OTsgp 
lamg rpTP 5gKgm5 Om drTgparnP 2saRs rpg rgPTsgTaRrnnS KngrPamF C/T rnPO KgpdrmgmT O-gp Tsg 
RgmT/pagPB .ann 7rRIPOm LOnnORIjP rpT PTrS rpO/m5 rm5 al mOTV 2sS mOT! 6pRsaTgRTP rpg rn2rSP 
nOOIamF lOp drTgparnP 2saRs rnnO2 Tsgd TO 5gPaFm C/an5amFP 2saRs 2ann Cg dOpg Tsrm YCOogPBq .srT 
TOOnP 5O dO5gpm drTgparnP Ollgp Tsgd! Z d/PT r5daT Z sr-g Cggm TsamIamF sO2 TO TranOp Tsg RO/pPg 
TO hmFnaPs drQOpP TOO C/T sr-g PO lrp 5pr2m r CnrmIB urSCg POdgOmg Rrm sgnK dgB
Dsg RnrPP 2ann Cg amsgpgmTnS Pdrnn am m/dCgpP rm5 5a-gpPg am CrRIFpO/m5PB Ds/P Z KpOKOPg TO 
p/m aT dOpg rP r PgdamrpGKpOQgRT RO/pPg 2aTs lagn5 TpaKP prTsgp Tsrm r Tspgg1TadgP1r12ggI lOpdrn 
ngRT/pgB .sgm O/p RnrPP 5OgP dggTV Z goKgRT Tsg daoT/pg Ol rpTaPTPV s/drmaPTPV PRagmTaPTP rm5 
gmFamggpP TO KpO-a5g amTgpgPTamF 5aPR/PPaOmP rP 2g goKnOpg Tsg /Pg Ol drTgparnP am Tsg Rr-gP rm5 
RrPTngP Ol Tsg Cgr/Tal/n iOapg -rnngSB .srT SO/ ngrpm aP /K TO SO/ 2aTs dg rP r daoT/pg Ol r5-aPOp 
rm5 RO1PT/5gmTB
Zl SO/ 2aPs TO TrnI rCO/T TsaPV Pgg dg am .g3 HHcz Op Rrnn tk'"B
LpOlB 3rpOn5 LroTOmV uEh 
MgmTpg 5g DO/pP )aPaTamF LpOlgPPOpV EKpamF ckkH
7Oam JpB LroTOm TsaP PKpamF PgdgPTgp rT Tsg MrpmgFag ugnnOm MgmTpg 5g DO/pPB 
AOp dOpg amlOpdrTaOm Om OTsgp RO/pPgP Op OTsgp PT/5S rCpOr5 OKTaOmPV ROdg CS Tsg 
NllaRg Ol ZmTgpmrTaOmrn h5/RrTaOm rT tck EdaTs 3rnn 
Op Rrnn hdanS armRsama rT o'k8kB
Application deadline for Spring 93 is October 16.
Dont pass up your chance to spend a semester in France!

---------------------------------------------------

VBP muiCeo, Ua5Seos, 7l g5as,
By BOB DIXON
Tartan Staffwriter
Do you have roaches in your basement dorm room? Do you want to push buggy but not be Greek? Do you want to tell Dining Services to not be so chintzy with the sour cream on your taco supreme? If the answer to any of these questions is 'Yes, then maybe you should consider the one organization that addresses all of these issues.The Student Dormitory Council (SDC) is an organization of residents of Carnegie Mellons residence halls comprised of six standing committees  Properties, Programming, Public Relations, Food, Housing, and Films  and three Carnival committees  Booth, Buggy,
and Tent. Each of the six standing committees serves a specialized function in serving as a liaison between CMU students and administrative offices, while the three Carnival Committees enhance the quality of student involvement with Spring Carnival.
Properties CommitteeSDCs Properties Committee office is located in Hamerschlag House. This office oversees the use of all recreational equipment in the residence halls. The organization owns and maintains all of the televisions in residence halls as well as the pool tables and ping-pong tables in residence hall recreation rooms and microwave ovens in dormitory kitchens. The Properties Committee also keeps supporting equipment like pool cues,
pool balls, and ping-pong balls in stock and available for student use.
Programming CommitteeSDCs Programming Committee is involved with organizing and running recreational and educational activities for CMU students. SDC works in conjunction with resident assistants in University Housing to organize little things, like ice skating in Schenley or [hunting for] Easter eggs, said Matt Willard, sophomore materials science major and SDC vice president. Willard also mentioned SDCs larger endeavors like Sex Week, always a big thing, in January and the Homecoming Clip- pership Dance in October. The Programming Committee is interested in 
Please see SDC, page L3
Administration family tree
President ~
VP Development
 Alumni VP Business Affairs/
Relations University Planning /
 Annual  Business Provost
Giving Affairs  VP
 Develop-  Campus Academic
ment/ Fund Services , Services
Raising (business and (computing,
 Planned dining, libraries)
Giving environmental,  Vice
 Records and Physical Plant) Provost for
Research  Treasurer Education
 Finance (colleges,
 Planning/ special
Budget educatjonal
 Human projects)
Resources
VP University Relations 
Enrollment  Public
 Financial Relations
Resources  Carnegie.
 Student Mellon
Recruitment Magazine
 Student  Special
Systems Events
(Registrar,  University
Summer Printing &
Programs) Publications, '
 Quality of Life Copy Center 
(Athletics,
CMAP, inter
national Ed
ucation, Student 
Affairs, Security)
' wmmm
PusUn,Groups keep the University machine running
N5M:m 87Mo, 
,mngolm, u ,u9
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Staffwriter 
& MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Features Editor
Most students view CMUs student government as something that is just there: an entity without any real purpose. What a lot of students dont seem to understand is that without student government, the administration would run the students lives, and hell might seem like a fun place in comparison.The setup of student government, consisting of two parts, is pretty simplo. First, there are two governing bodies  Student Senate, including an executive branch, and the Graduate Student Organization (GSO).The executive branch of Student Senate has the offices of president, treasurer, and public relations officer. The legislative branch is made up of Student Senate chair, heads of the various committees, and Senators. It [the two- branch setup] is a version of checks and balances, says junior ECE major Greg Haverkamp, Rules Committee head. The president has veto power and the Senate can choose to override the veto with a two-thirds majority. Hence, no one branch can get resolutions passed without answering to the other.Senior IM major Matthew McGarvey serves as Student Senate chair this year and describes his duties as, running the meetings of Senate.... I do most of the administrative work.Natalie Gesmond, a senior political science and psychology major and president of student government, said, Traditionally, the president was just someone who got a budget and went off and did his/her own thing  without any real relationship to the legislative branch. Gesmond now wishes to change that by working with the legislative branch instead of separate from it. She is also trying to depoliticize the
process by which action occurs by hear- ; ing students concerns and getting those concerns passed on to the ad- ! ministration. Working with her is senior math/CS major Jay Laefer, trea- ' surer, and senior English major Bob Dixon, public relations officer. Laefer jteeps track of finances for student , government and also works closely with the Funding and Recognition Committee in the legislative branch. Dixon publicizes student government events.The legislative branch, or Senate, helps givo the students somo power over what happens within their onvi- ronmentby makingrocoinmondations to the University administration, and, more importantly, distributing the Student Activitos Feo which every student pays each semester.Senate doesnt have much power except for controlling the purse strings, says CS doctoral student Erik Altmann, head of the Campus Affairs Committee. Activities Fee money is used to fund various student activities and student groups.For other issues not directly connected to the use of the Activities Fee, Senate can make suggestions but it is up to the administration to actually implement them  Senate has no tangible power in this area. Handling the money is no small task; as Altmann said, A half-million bucks gives students a bit of power over their environment. Not only is that a good experience, its a good thing [to have and use that power].The legislature has many committees that are used to make resolutions to pass on to the University administration, which actually implements (or doesnt implement) the plans.A good example would be the bike racks we are accustomed to having all over campus. The Campus Affairs 
Please see GOVERNMENT, page L3
Office of Admission does more than read essays
By BOBBIE DOFFLEMYER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
All students at Carnegie Mellon deal with one administrative j department or another, but the one we all have in common is the Office of Admission. All of us at j CMU have gone through the ad- mission process, and, as explained jby Associate Director Michael i White, it is not a quick and easy 
thing.
Five stages mark the road to CMU. The first and most difficult to negotiate is the pre-inquiry stage. White sa3's, We do not
know who is interested and who by alumni and admissions offic- is when students are actually en- is not  its our job to find out ers, and high shool counselors couraged to apply, and recruiterswho is. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------The PSAT,ouait co do not know who is interested and who is 
its our job to find out who is.
 Michael White, 
Associate Director of Admission
programs n()t one or the tools used to access individuals. Over-----------1 5 0,0 0 0 ^ names are provided from these and teachers serve as contacts programs, and the University between the University and stu- sends literature to prospective dents.students. Visits to high schools The inquiry stage lasts from and college nights are coordinated about August to February. This
are on the search for CMU hopefuls. Our biggest strategy is direct mail that points to the students specific interests, says White. White adds that personal
contact is the key to the entire admission process: We want them to contact staff and current CMU students to find out about the benefits CMU offers. To keep the students interested in CMU, the Office of Admission sends them all kinds of literature that asks them to do something, whether it is to return a card, call, or visit the campus. It is very imporant to get them on campus, says White, emphasizing the influence of actually seeing, rather than just hearing, what the University offers. The admission counselors encourage
interviewing and touringthe campus, as well as attending one of the three Sleeping Bag Weekends provided for inquiries.Around 60 regional programs about the University and over 50 hometown interviews comprise a major outreach recruiting program. We cover every comer of the country, as far west as Seattle and San Diego, and as far east as Maine and Miami. It is in this stage that students, as White says, turn into hard-core applicants.In the applicant stage, about 
Please see ADMISSIONS, page L3

---------------------------------------------------

,uaut Iogg7l8m5l
oUao,olmog |A 5o 7l p1fH VnUaoso P5nam ma7ue
"IMPLICATIONS OF THE CURRENT 
ABORTION CONTROVERSY ON ROE vs. WADE"
ca7gu9) 5im5Soa h 
f/Hd Us 
,C7S5 Sueea55s

---------------------------------------------------

vto vuamul y Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosSoa p11h3H
Reid Hecker/Tartan Photographer
Marching to their own beat..
Steel drummers performed last week on the Cut as part of a preview for the International Festival, which this year 
concentrates on Latin America and the Caribbean, and Is scheduled to occur October 21 through 24.
Govt handles 
students power
SENATE, from page LI
Committee badgered the administration until they got the newer bike racks in place. The Rules Committee, headed by Haverkamp, is busy rewriting the constitution bylaws. We are trying to strengthen the government by rewriting the bylaws... making them more cohesive, he says. The Funding and Recognition Committee, headed by GSIA student Michael Loomis, reviews funding requests before the requests go before the full Senate.The Academic Affairs Committee, headed by senior biology major Mike Tomblyn, deals with academic affairs for the students, rather than letting the administration do everything without getting input from the student body.GSO is separate from Student Senate, but serves a similar purpose. GSO receives 33 percent of the Activities Fees contributed by graduate students, and distributes that money among graduate departments for departmental events, other graduate student organizations, and capital expenditures which support the graduate student community, such as the new GSO Coffeehouse. GSO also retains a portion of the money for sponsoring its own events.According to Treasurer Howard Read, a doctoral ECE student, GSO started out more as a place to receive funding, but is becoming more and more politically representative of graduate students needs. Groups which are currently funded by GSO include the Black Graduate Student Organization, and Women in Non-Traditional Graduate Studies (WINGS).Each department sends representatives to GSO depending on the number of graduates students in the department. These are the voting members of GSO.GSO and Senate each have representatives in the other organization, but the committees, rules, and policies remain separate. However, Read says that, Were currently working with the Senate Funding and Recognition Committee to align our policies to a certain extent.Student government is a bureaucracy, in every sense of the word. However, that is not always a bad thing  it exists for the purpose of making sure that students get a say in what goes on around them.
SDC works for resident issues
SDC, from page LIbecoming involved with larger activities in the residence halls; residents of the West Wing went on a white water rafting trip which the SDC helped to fund, .buffering the cost for students. Were looking to help out with more of these, Willard said.
Public RelationsEvents like ice skating in Schenley Park and Sex Week are advertised by the organizations Public Relations Committee, which handles all poster advertising for activities as well as for Saturday Films run by the SDC Films Committee.
Food Committee -----------------------------The SDCs committees | impact campus life beyond providing activities and fa- ' cilities. The Food and Housing Committees are the most influential on campus, Willard said. The Food Committee meets weekly with dining service V representatives who take suggestions on changes and try to effect them. Dining  ^, Services, Willard said, is ^ the administrative structure on campus most likely to change. Willard also said that the SDC Food Committee was consulted on the changes in meal plans that took effect this year; SDC was also given copies of all materials sent to students about the new meal plan systems.
Housing CommitteeThe Housing Committee deals with the residence halls in general. The big one [issue] has been [the time] when the garbage men come, Willard said. There has been a lot of discussion with Housing concerning its contract with the I trash removal company. The Housing Committee also had extensive discussions with Academic Computing and Media when the Mudge Computer | Cluster was closed, a move which made many
students unhappy. Its a way students can voice opinions to different administrations, said Willard.Aside from its standing committees, SDC also has three Spring Carnival Committees: Booth, Buggy, and Tent.
Booth and Buggy Committees The Booth and Buggy Committees are for students who want to be active [in Carnival] but havent joined other organizations; its a great opportunity to get involved said Willard, citing very successful past Booth and Buggy teams. Anyone living in University Housing has the opportunity to participate in the Carnival Committees.
------------------------------------Tent CommitteeThe Carnival Tent Committee makes the contracts with many of the performers in tihe main tent as well as the tent itself. Most of the SDCs tent budget goes toward supplying the main Spring Carnival tent.
Membership Every student living in University Housing
"Committees are where a 
lot of the fun is; you can 
see the product when 
youre done.
r Matt Willard, 
SDC Vice President
is already a non-voting member of the Student Dormitory Council and welcome to attend both general and committee meetings. To become a voting member of the SDC, a student must turn in, at a SDC meeting, a petition form with 25 signatures, of students living in University Housing, usually from people living on the same floor. To become a committee member after obtaining voting privileges, a student merely needs to contact the committee chair. Said Willard, Committees are where a lot of the fun is; you can see the product when youre done.Everyone [in SDC] is always looking for new people with new ideas, Willard said. If you want to get involved on campus and make a difference, SDC is a great way of doing it.
Admission recruits 
applicants, freshmen
ADMISSION, from page LI8.200 students apply for admission to CMU. The University accepts about 62 percent of the total applicants, and of these, between 1,150 and1.200 are enrolled. About 59 percent of those enrolled come from the mid-Eastern states, but in general, Carnegie Mellon applicants cover a broad geographic range. Personal contact is still a continuing factor in the process as students and admission counselors take care of any last- minute details regarding academic departments and financial aid procedures.The fourth segment of this process involves the admitted group. Carnegie Mellon admits by colleges. In some departments, the admittance rate is tighter than others because of space availability, says White. Colleges usually look for students in the top ten percent of their high school classes. Standardized test scores figure into the equation as well: most colleges prefer students who have an average SAT score of 550 verbal and 650 math. These test scores, however, depend on the college and major the student plans to enter, and they do not weigh as heavily as the students high school record and grades.Specific colleges have different requirements. MCS and CIT look for an overall strong high school record of courses and grades with a heavy emphasis on math and science. H&SS and IM also look for a strong overall profile, but with less emphasis on math and science. CFA is the only college that accepts students based on a departmental review of talent, coupled with an academic review by admissions, according to the admission literature. The largest,college is CIT,
followed by MCS and CFA.The final stage involves the depositor. The Office of Admission continues to maintain student interest in CMU over the summer by giving them information from The Word and allowing students to submit AP credits. We do not want anyone changing their minds at the last minute, says White, and this is why the strategy of personal contact is so crucial in getting and keeping student interest.Transfer students and foreign national students go through a similar admissions process as far as the kinds of courses taken, grades achieved, and tests taken. The only difference for foreign national students is the required Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Admission relies heavily on the TOEFL, looking for scores over 600, to determine the students command of the English language both written and spoken.Transfer student's have a harder time being accepted because of the lack of available space. According to White, This is affected by the number of freshman enrolled. We try to keep the numbers close to what the faculty can handle.... This calls for tighter competition between transfer students. We do look at their high school records to see if they would have been accepted as freshmen if they would have applied then.The long, involved admission procedure is a way of determining which students can be successful at CMU, and then making sure they get here. The Office of Admission looks for the students with the highest potential for success in the University, as an individual, and in the job market.
COMING SOON
bvhTHE WORLD'S BEST TV COMMERCIALS
R Qaulg LoI P5eeoim75l 5c 
1k Rg, ca5s Ra5nlg mto 5aeg
Ah -??
Cra'1~'~~dp

---------------------------------------------------

MARITHE FRANOISGIRBAUD
.RDGbRLLV
N4QRDB
NERv bO'EbELv 
EXvR'RNRLZR
OPvOQE h) p11h 
f/dd zb  p/Hd Rb
bEvOzO3) p~dd VbR33bRL VvEEv
1 ST 200 RECEIVE A GIRBAUD GIFT BAG (25.00 VALUE) 
FREE ADMISSION FROM 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM 
AND COMPLIMENTARY HOT & COLD HORS D'OEUVRES 
MUST BE AT LEAST 21 YEARS OF AGE.
R3VO |O4L DV GO vjE jOvvEVv 
GR33 GRVj4OLV) N4'ERRYV RLB 
BR4LNVA
|O4L vjE bO'EbELv

---------------------------------------------------

vto vuamul y Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosSoa p11h3T
WHicrn
COLLEGE 
STUDENTS 
MAJORING IN
Allied Health 
Professions
Discover a challenging, rewarding future that puts you in touch with your skills. Todays Air Force offers ongoing opportunities for professional development with great pay and benefits, normal working hours, complete medical and dental care, and 30 days vacation with pay per year. Learn how to qualify as an Air Force health professional. Call
USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS COLLECT (412) 687-7313
President Mehrabian discusses new projects
ments and additions to several buildings on campus and has several new ones in the planning stage. Every year for the past several years, the administration has spent $200,000 upgrading classrooms, and this past summer, spent $2 million to renovate some of the fraternities. The latest addition  to the Graduate School of Industrial Administration  will be complete on time (Dec. 1992) and on budget ($13.7 million), according to Mehrabian, and teaching there will start promptly next semester. Its not just an extension of the business school, but also provides facilities for our students in the undergraduate Industrial Management program, says Mehrabian. For the first time in a very long time, all undergraduate Industrial Management main core courses will be taught by tenured faculty in the business school.The Electronic Materials Technology Building, to be built behind Hamerschlag Hall and scaled down the hill, will be four or five stories tall and connect to the existing building. We have $10.5 of $15 million and have authorized architectural planning and design of the building, says Mehrabian. Well raise the rest of the funds this year and hope to start construction sometime next summer.
jo:, mto S788o,m mt7l8 m5 t7m |uUul 
,7lio N5g(7eeuA
ate do graduate, says Mehrabian. We have to do a much better job of student advising and strengthen our tutorial program. All in all, Mehrabian says, Im very happy with the 19  on the other hand, I cant say that thats where Id like to be. I want to be much higher than that.And among all these endeavors, Mehrabian still finds time to have fun. His favorites? Freshman Orientation  I had a good time getting up and talking to parents. Another time is Carnival.... Its a time when the campus comes alive.And in his free time? Theres not a whole lot of free time, he says. If I have time, Ill ride a horse.... My wife has horses.... She breaks them in and when
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
Since 1990, when he was inaugurated as Carnegie Mellons seventh president, Robert Mehrabian has been involved in much change on campus. Under his administration, several dormitory and academic buildings have been renovated, the long- neglected niche project on the College of Fine Arts building is finally being completed, the GSIA addition is almost finished, and the Carnegie Mellon Centre 
de Tours program in Tours, France, is in full swing.Since his graduation from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1960, Mehrabian has earned his bachelors and PhD in metallurgy and material sciences from MIT and has held professorships at MIT, University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign, and the University of California at San-ta Barbara.He has published more than 140 technical papers, has edited six books, and holds eight patents. He doesnt seem to be slowing down any since his tenure began on July 1, 1990, either. Academically, structurally, culturally, and extra-curricularly, Mehrabian has made many improvements to CMU.He has made available opportunities for faculty and students in all disciplines. He created the position of Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education, presently held by Erwin Steinberg, who was the first dean of H&SS.He created 34 advisory boards, each chaired by a member of the Board of Trustees and includ- ing experts from around the country and around the world. I wanted to have some outside advice on how well we were doing, says Mehrabian. These advisory boards, which meet every two years, each examine a specific aspect of the University, such as computing, athletics, or an academic department, and evaluate it, making suggestions for improvement.He initiated the Centre de 
Tours program in Tours, France, where students spend a semester living with a French family and going to school there. He also worked closely with former Student Government President Kishor Rao (M/CS, 92) to enact the Fifth Year Scholars program, in which five to ten students are selected each year to spend a fifth year on campus, tuition free, to sample courses outside the department their majors were in. I wanted to do something to recognize undergraduates who had tremendous achievements in their careers here, says Mehrabian. He approved $50,000 in funding for undergraduate research grants, and says, I feel strongly that undergraduates should be involved in research.Structurally, Mehrabian has funded and supported improveIts very important that you have 
an awareness of cultures.... I feel 
very strongly we should introduce 
a sequence of experiences for our 
undergraduate and training pro
grams that address the issue of 
internationalization. 
r President Mehrabian
The Performing Arts Center, which has been promised to the College of Fine Arts for some 30 years, is still being planned. When I came, that building was slated to be approximately $12 million.... The most recent cost estimate was $18 million, says Mehrabian. We have approximately $5 million already.... Were working on one major donor, whom we want to name the building after, and if we get that donor, well move on that building very quickly.Regarding the University Center, Mehrabian says, The highest priority right now in my plans is the University Center. The architectural designs were finished three months ago, and $10 million of the building's $41 million dollar cost has been raised. We have one primary donor that were hoping will donate half the cost, says Mehrabian. I expect to find out about that one way or another very soon. If we get that primary donor to commit, Im going to take a chance [that I can raise the last $10 million] and start building.To improve cultural relations on campus, Mehrabian has instituted and improved many international aspects of our campus community. It is my strong be
lief that when you graduate and go into the work force... its going to require not just for you to have the ability to solve problems and the ability to have continuing education capabilitiesits very important that you have an awareness of cultures, hopefully some foreign language experience.... I feel very strongly we should introduce a sequence of experiences for our undergraduate and training programs that address the issue of internationalization.CMU has increased the number of agreements for exchange programs it has with other universities in different countries. The number of courses available for language students has been greatly increased, and by next fall, the Modern Languages Departments budget will have tripled. The Task Force on Cultural Diversity has also prepared two minicourses being offered this semester  Introduction to Cultural Analysis and Asian- American Cultures.When I came, CMAP didnt have a base budget. We immediately gave them $250,000 as an annual base budget and have increased that ever since. A $15,000 allocation has also been added to the budget of the Associate Provost for Academic Projects to support the Committee on Mi- norities and Women in Science and Engineering. Mehrabian also introduced an international office and expanded the Office of International Education. We also started International Week. I felt that we needed something akin to
courtesy CMU Public Relations
President Mehrabian speaks with football Head Coach Rich Lackner and several players in Highlander Caf.
U.S. News and World Report's Top 25 Colleges and Universities list.Among the factors Mehrabian lists as contributing to this rise in standing are the resource additions made to instructional activities and the aggressive recruiting efforts made by the Office of Admission. Our applications have gone up about 32 percent in two years, says Mehrabian. One area where Mehrabian is disappointed with our ratingis student satisfaction, measured by the percent of entering freshmen who graduate after 5 years. (CMUs is about 70 percent). I think Steinberg has put it very accuratelyour function here is to make sure that those students thatshould gradutheyre very safe and sound, I get on them. I read a lot of time management books, and autobiographies  Im just working my way through Truman now. I also read some spy novels that these guys [Steinberg and Dean of Student Affairs Michael Murphy] sneak to mo.On a more serious note, ho says, I think that... the foundation of this Universityhow it started, and our motto ofMy heart is in the work has carried us through the last 92 yearB.I just have a very strong feeling and devotion to preserving that heritage. Institutions like ours are precious  they are really the jewels left in our country.
Spring Carnival, says Mehrabian. This year well have our International Festival concentrate on Latin America and the Caribbean  well have dances, music, food, costume, poetry, lectures and movies.Mehrabian has also made many improvements in campus extracurricular life. He helped with the Graduate Student Coffeehouse in Skibo so that graduate and commuter students could have a place to relax, socialize, and study during the academic day. He also approved funding for the extension of the womens soccer program, as well as its move to varsity status. He provided support and funding for the Last Lecture Series, Gathering Storr, Take 30, Student Affairs Leadership Series, and special class projects. In addition, hes approved funding for several special initiatives, such as Greek leadership retreats, Black History Month, and Kiltie Band jafck- ets.One of the fruits of Mehrab- ians efforts is CMUs recent jump from 24th to 19th in this year's
One 74Jwct (s<x.
'Limited Number of Free Passes* *Come to The Tartan, Skibo 50*
First Come, First Serve* *One Pass Per Person*
*Special Advance Screening*
Wednesday, September 30 at 7:30 PM at Showcase Cinema East
\V\
<2> Handkmt Wool & Alpaca 
Sweaters from Ecuador & Peru 
(100s to Choose from')
@ Jewelry - Handmade by 
Latin American ArtisansA Socially Responsible Bus
rt4\\-5iOCTliZwl IU* OCT 22,23,2*#Outside Vendor <" Pi Forbes & Bigelow * Mon.-Fn Noon lo 6:00
Slrip District Saturday Only 21st & Penn Phone 1412,921-7208

---------------------------------------------------

A PA95I0NATB P5FENPER OF THE ENVIRONMENT... SENATOR AL GOREIS NOW CONVINCED THAT THE ENGINES OF HUMAN CIVILIZATION HAVE BROUGHT US TO THE BRJNK OF CAm^OPHBjy^Wj
 7HIS ILLUMINATING ANP DEEPLY PERSONAL BCCK IS REQUIRED REAPING RDR. AIL
LIM TEDOEFRE IE ADPEL 9550 NB HV.9S NGH HWVNC HWUZ J9Km HW^W9U5jy
U N PREPARATION FCR THE BiG Dtme, PAVO CRACKS A BOOK FINISHED!PRETTYSHORT BOOK.PANNY? HAVE YOU STARTEP GORE'S BOOK YET */ t['MON IT! -^r I'M ON IT! fe*
DANNY, THAT WAS THE JACKET COPY.
SNAP/
Bo BETTER KNOW HIS ENEMY, PANO PULLS AN ALENIGHTER.AU/RJGHT!A PICTURE !BOY, THAT WAS A LONG PAGE...PAMN.. 
IT'S A GRAPH..
HAVB YOU PICKED THE SOOKAMKTYET? v
PANNY*"THE SLOWNESS mWHW OCEANS REGPONPdUILPSA WE LAG, BUT AS TEMPERATURES INCREASE, THE JX5M5 MAY ABSORB l&S 6V2."
1 JUST WANT T SAS THAT 
EDUCATION  OUR MOST 
IMPORTANT INVESTMENT \N 
TUE FUTURE, AND ITS 
SCANDALOUS HOW LITTLE 
OJR EDUCATORS E PAID/
1JU STWAN HE
WHO ELSE
didnt DO THE 
HOMEWORK 
FOR TODAS ?
ACTUAU-S, 
tt> LIKE TO 
SEE MORE 
TEACHER 
OUT ON THE 
5TREETS.
D1C STIO T  R1MO 1P TQUESTION, j STATEMENT,
CALVIN P / REALLS
r * SUfWO 39NVWD hO/HV HUM XMJ3HL /d!N9W HDIHM sdoon xDveas&miusod'M) \siim05LWMM dsimsrmi jsaam/aoddsi/OMdt&tM I -i&LNIdO NCN3W0N3Hd SIHL.
LET'S SEE. ..IF I READ WO RAGES AN HOUR. ANP I REAP FOR ONE HOUR, THAT MEANS J WOULP REAP... UM... a
PANNY! GETTO IT!OKAY, OKAY..
WHAT? WHAT?
this is just Sour clumss 
WAS OF coping WITH THE 
FACT THAT I'M A GENIUS 
AND YOU'RE SI ILL STRUGGLING 
WITU TUE CONCEPT OF 
^ WALKING ERECT.----------\------------
THE TRUTH WILL SET
D1VM \OO\S PMOO E
"THEFATEFUL PECISION TO RELY ALMOST EXCLUSIVELY ON A SINGLE FOOD CROP-POTATOES FOR SUBSISTENCE SET THE STAGE FOR THE HORRIBLE TRAGEPY KNOWN AS THE GREAT POTATO FAMINE..." A
"BETWEEN 1779ANP 1841 THE POPULATION INCREASED PY 1727c, MAKING IRELAND, BY PISRAELI'S ESTIMATE, THE MOST PENSELY POPULATED AREA OF EUROPE..."
I PIPNT REALIZE HE WAS GOING TO GET SO PERSONAL .UJHAT IS IT?HONEY!
SEE? THAT'S WHY YOU HAVE TO BE READY./
J HATE SCHOOL.' IIA HOT GOING TO SCHOOL EVER AGAIN.' I REFUSE.
I TMIKVC mV\ LETTERED 
IN SHOT PUT HER 
JUNIOR SEAR.
I'VE GOT AN/PEA. GORE MENTIONS WHAT FRANCIS BACON NOW? A LOT IN HIS / BOOK...\ A
IF HE BRINGS HIM UP IN THE PEBATE, I'LL JUST SAY, "J KNEW FRANCIS BACON, FRANCIS BACON WAS A FRJENP OF MINE, ANP BELIEVE ME YOU'RE NO FRAN OS BACON." WOULD THAT BE A ZINGER OR WHAT?
BUT YOU SURE. BUTGORt DIDN'T WON T KNOWKNOW THAT! WHO IS FRANCIS HE ANYWAY, BACON. SOME ACTOR?
HEY, HONEY!
I HATE GOING TO 
SCHOOL. I WISH I WAS A TIGER 
TIGERS PONT NEED 
TO KNOW ANYTHING.
ATTACKING RUNNING ANIMALS INVOLVES 
A LOT OF PUSSICS. THERES VELOCITY, 
GR/WITS AND LAWS OF MOTION, NOT TO 
MENTION ALL THE BlOLOGS WE HAVE 
TO KNOW. THEN THERES THE ARTISTIC
EXPRESSION OF IT ___________________^
AIL. AND A LOT J 
MORE.'
GOSH. 1 
NEVER REALIZED
JF,,FWL TN
SO GRcuNDED 
IN THE 
LIBERAL ARTS.
tAS DISSERTATION 
ON ETHICS WAS 
VERY WEU, RECEIVED.
[ [AMO FORMS AN OPINION, j
INNER ECOLOGY"! "HOUSM7 "CODBPENPENCY"! "PYSFVNC- TIONAL THINKING"! GORE MUST HAVE WRITTEN 7HIS THING INA HOT TUB! TALK. ABOUT C02 EMISSIONS !
THE MANS OVER 40 YEARS OLD, AND HE ONLY JUST FOUND HIS LIFE'S CENTRAL ORGANIZING PURPOSE r 
AND THEY CALL ME CALLOW, WHATEVER THAT MEANS!
GOLF!WHAT?} WHY I NOT?
NEVERADMITTHAT,PANNY.
I MEAN, MY LIFE'S ALWAYS HAD A
CENTRAL ORGANIZING PURPOSE... \
I FIGURED OUT IlOW I CAN 
ACHIEVE SUCCESS WITHOUT 
_____ - . HARD WORK,
I'LL FIND A 
PROFESSION 
HUERE EVERSONE 
IN IT \S WORSE 
THAN ME! v
THAT MIGHT TAKE 
HARD WORK. _
Doonesbury is a daily feature of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette is not a daily feature of Pittsburgh. 
Whats a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
> euoftrt^ojK!
1"Kat enough ?!
Witen^s+Lt teqaoo sWiny
/('^ou ^''-ve - Pf^jiSv ie*o/Sr
Develop o,rt UodarsT^nJ,^..."Infey"* contcpts 4 fecU^ocs..'.
'Obtain i>ASit kno->|?dae..."
YZQLiJW
Im not-a+t/ncias muck as I should sOu+ oP +K15 course- y
ACTCASUAL
Comics from the Mailbag.
Stuff they send us that we get to print for free,
IHU wiiks Jim's Journal.By Jim
The1) t>oih wanted 5so U5U tnam0 
r jo.'Jt
Col |v Qoi tu 
$teveavii To^ wer-e wA4cViivn5 
\Hinfrey o\ 
TV- _wv,_
+Uewi awd oj>vAed 
Op Y*1 pof +wK
The v*) 'io.'f Kome 
frsvYN +oJ^
v S5n*'\' {5Io 
?o p +\<Ts.H<L 1053,
Ho^flneyo> 
Toofty? A
tMrnih^ I <jot 
op Corly fo study 
for  t$t.
&wm oR y I'Ufi I LIA I IKotX J;dw'+ -feel like i X
WlA'VcVvcJ TV.
Aftr o.got up <*i WnIc.l'fJ TV too.
HcasWeJ *\e if t'<iVMiVMl turwi>l9 tke ie*M\oe m5 CrteJ aam5al79 RI\a>i

---------------------------------------------------

Sg$6uK,g ter/TtAKCANC SLAV6Rav A>ICHACL SCARP
L UK ANP JPfrtEEL ARE G-ooQ MEM
OuT THX Po A/(XT ke!TanJuif /}\y AtfSSlON.
9u6rO, D3lElR zcD6u D4QNlNAi1E Ai?F peepFR TK4/U r rHou&HT?
On-r I BymokH iToR ngresm lrutp
3u7lRB 364#v. Z #jQT2g1l# . 
TO32pT y .g1 v&eee&tv't /dmu.a$ i PiHf CP 't"& mr2d3 A W(A&- Mc89$NarT -lep-t p
At4C? UMt*> *"-.............................. &LTibWO j V\ J
7ce~D
CNpCGHU'fct AlU Ze9D4g 3a$pTppQ+u$V TC7 UpixU^ ~T-T 
'-*RD<g1 L$lV6$R1 $g1uK1$>n Kggw 
lTl@ u6497g1
L1F$RD a36$puT
ifCCpAQ TC Pit- uv\ Wj t^Ua^T t A 'A'c-WtySL- Of'p(U?pvT(?d&h 
9jD6BLnu 9Lu-Ra
cu. a& j -*a$ VAlu-f TpAlvA'M^ 
uM V e 3a3D Kl1 ^ 
TFi/!/ 
M36DgRO
'@T'M!4 
u &C@6Tt3 $
 4MD ZT6 -G6'B
Z 3C $ MQ5!64 .aD4n3
??????????Z L$&&u x. 
77ezE|7AbmQ| nKco )0RDa =zdb vcm c0vRGc <0&00 p
vc$c
!Gu61m1
8,OO$au@
CAILIN6 ALL COOL KIDS!
8hD N4, 6iZhe6DhJ 4DDE JN.e DNAkbar & Jeffs
Tattoo Hut
FORbEb S AVNNUve rni^cy rVO ydaadO you wd idtE eEVhb 
ckREJOST FOUR. OF OOR.CORR6oupn yVhdEUwbN|
LuwdfTHh coynmrTdn 8ouT TATTOOSQ: Does it hurt y To 6 ET TATT006-91 L. A*. NO MORE THAN ATHOOSaNDTIN^  FISHHOOKS BRIEFLY.RfkHrdI you INISUCCESSION).O'. UJHAT IF I &TSbmRTy -Toyn dhNdf, m.TmTTyvmzOsi WS Booy ANCUit ftEAVc uP?V. THAT JO ST IS MOT poSSvLE. IMPOHTftoT :
Hty M0M ANO OAP 1 LOOK VJRAT X SPENT Nvy Dorm Monea on1
ez)M 
CASTZPlTlDM
kNdh yoO F wo THE F,HmNo CPq$1 0u;,dh 4.^ THIS ___ PICTURE-?
OUR GUARANTEE
" yOU PROBABLE WONT FEEL LIKE
A &yRH loyeARSJUST BECAUSE i)OUgNaJy N HEAvyMETAL AfOOi LO60 ONi yoop. BoTT"
ASK AO-GD 002 SPECIAL** QES16k) ForMENTAUX iLL
Lh,AN|u6TlMh y (\PX\CTS\
you VSAR HL WR ELWAR NC y LWOA GEGB IGR RGG Bfctcbui; TMNDL y GSO YWOLIRAB WrGoWadw yWAT lV TWtY
mTllRlEmSEbb
ffitRWi
'H un SFFtED UP
D_2lpp.feN CHVS flippy/SA little 
Tfe*7te" oF 5WF^ 
EoZTll3 .IMG ..O$
L 7vKuA
lD LhGZe4D 8vDN,; 
DDhii
. A BEAOTifutiV LVtlC
Z , Z)lKgTO 3Os
E/Rr 3huppDN$1T$a$$ 
MuHBEES As -fe Bulr/ 
^0*6 IR Hosca. ovtSroj 
Vny,oH H(N,tj)Tfey HAf 
fe Af/te. ff/ Mi>tpyu>M>t>y,/
.Q -msi D0u3@gB EgterheFlIunB ,A kAy-TRtV^
rp p^py Doq uniqeoprrr"s j$t,T Lo n dattr P
S MspaPTarm Opng
MNCJfJC, TOK6-rs w>mR''
mtvrimi. ,mvpwnow < 
MU WesiHfN6l/
\
-mefetv&icMs mrb f-menx/m**/.'' 
WlfcHT/ A lueu ^ ,w8$-te?**ss'-s
#22p
6TTe$
)
Jetz'/
egvv Eee75vv 7&, SM Vit7cc
rTg rm5 r Rsrmmgn PsOpT
No complete cartoon avalable> Vo' 2>No- 5
oKgpagmRdF
echnical
ifficulties...
e Stand By...

---------------------------------------------------

/^?Tertog /pRp usmA -e .gFEEdAil
avj oIw|7b7& Summ7S tu, witP jODe<Xz K0
I /SMOKKp j^T
I HP- T*^
RA mEbbRev vXQK/.INKIK GnGIS | ,n4p/S,S .- O__________/
KKmAjz Oe OP.avbo7 zv'K F0jv0 *
(jp vjhat ILR5gIILnC Havb- putter? 
am V/Cck cKIKRuusGMS. RS5-S !
ter/Ta *PMi' PxunwLF^ 
(Jp. r PP/-nvr-i;o pA-icC- rz><& I 
rnP cupmm-Y eMs^p mL^r'C M To iif.tefilW't' WEUTAI&I. __(-r.. 5/S <o> -p'^ >iTuTm^>.. ^
'E3DbV 8b
hogpRu oME
^ypLUSMMpN
By GARY LARSON
vuetlcly -fen.-W< lu "12.-eA.ii4y, li it w&n +. houJ T&TSK you fee holim*____ 1_______________________~~ sssssssssssssssssssssr dour i-Q
WASH/W6TS/0 ToW. AA//> yo^
ftiRWS FE.A1 1H' 
i\ ME^Etj6ijL.
Slife
I'D UKe -T6. 5P/i^ To COU 
6RESSM*J
2E01 TTA /^-K^a^T^
z4Vv.|Pv
?zz4PEmAh.FF g/Em3bO b  0nz.O'RN Hwhtrt inconsistency Is / 
lfI/ 4 K/y of ///V *
//s n /Inm144uR/ElpV
Over 5 mil/ion ftorcc/-
M-flU
I'M MIH.IE O'KOURlif, HEP- v 
0VAGtf'S ?eR.SOf0AL SEcV. 
IS THR.E" A PRoBi^
I CfiLLBp HIS UASH/*l6TPN DFWi
cQJ7 ,R7U Io lume mc88iK
... c,orv\r 
0MB 5I6WSM PAY I 
CHECKS (J
Tensions mount on the Lewis and Clark expedition.
'CANW && A I 
Ll-nt eCET,Y'iSgPB yuMLL -To E"L611DO 
__ Cotob&JSCStoAM.
li-TS faO I WTO N"/ OP pi Cf.
NJEKT WEFK: lUMEM&tRiMk A 6RfAT STATSMA*J. BET % can't WAIT/
THf? if NO <f SC/iP/
THE APVEA/TURFS op
OK, maam, you said you warned your husband 
to put the newspaper down or youd blow 
him away------Did he respond?
VJa\t1 Vou Can't do ytS! i'm allergic T (jrimS"TDfie K J \rn.<se o-y 
(JoCtaCJ 29c9Iu
0 Do. sl po po Oe Ox.
faTulati^yT^ 
? Youre Ti-ie 
uint^nPi_5oc/
prepay
 |5o
one G 
to be
abRPPnaS
yoO uJin This 
fabulous pci^e
Shot ar 
V f-edimp^0
TWi5 Seem5A
CoVnciient
'^\\  h^T' 1
\jH,
'R7oA 301:5W y
fo
ofF^e
Giraffe limousines

---------------------------------------------------

lt/yd i
hy Jon SlohlfBENN'l 15 A HERMIT CRABHIS SHELL 15 HIS HOME.
8,;rP$$uxP 1L8,5MxrU Mw:E(,fmiNfy PIE.C&5
a.,afosa
peHrAL'CMXH A cjilMPsE Te RyN-rmi
B&NN^ OT^REU HIS OLD 
HOME  NEEDS A NEW OKJE.
BENNW DECIDES TO MAKE A 
BOLD FASHION STATEMENT
$AS HIS NEO HOHE CHOOSES...
THE LXF5. Of- TH PARTY
iSlW- , ' X
A REAL HERMIT
87,IsI
bDBEO OLbRICti
,l Pbk-nD) p' $9.SlS5csAflkiut ZwEttrr.ifatvi37 Duo  *vv
OlDyou rtP)R f>/
j ERaDT1l.$d-7jMlaO2C
xVw_NRV,N enTi*;^. 5Hc.(<'? you. WEfiE. 
~~^V- A HIT. fAPi M I
LAST WEEK; A &WMT MT/Nfc LIZARD CKrS
UPptfOUR MUs?EOTlN/r HEW/____________________
wMm
ff/ HIBKiQ SufJFlMuettf,, V&J, / r H/)tX A/j> JQPIOTl-t RoftRoF rH6 C.H6UJP. MeWj>ci>E [ 
S?^-| PEACE- ANI i-ol/e - 
/yfT lm\PVER.VWHG^E. J
S. iJt'wiHjoe, vJrtfVT sp<i you. gtone J.IK., ft REU^Ui* rfc*.-ToFTVte fw>?
WHEW
He),pups, the Hybrid 2uwfoh/ers 
i>OMf J>IS0?W(/vrtT. k/e. J>o*jr < 
' CKt, KE., WflT YUft ^ 7 6-iow \s. xts AU-Cool. 
With (AS. ,,,<-v. - _
WHAT ABOUT mr setyfa
DUDE5 WITH ySA7:Iuhp
f SoMEHoul I-Thiwk xh\ feem^ir
itJ d y HtAD /- l A6A> . r~~r-SBUCK &ELT 
Iri TW i0 w 
VsURP WM,
V w Sd)itpBt
By GARY LARSONBy GARY LARSON
Suddenly, the cops stepped into the clearing, 
and the Spamshiners knew they were busted.
The Far Side is The Far Side is The Far Side is The Far Side.  Gertrude Stein
In the early cfays, living in their squalid apartment, 
all three shared dreams of success. In the end, 
however, Bob the Spoon and Ernie the Fork 
wound up in an old silverware drawer and 
only Mac went on to fame and fortune.

---------------------------------------------------

V5so tuMo ,u7g mtum Volumo g5o,lm e7,mol m5 7lg7M7gnue
,mngolm, 5U7l75l,A
vto9 Ioao Ia5l8A
Vmngolm Volumo aoiolme9 toeg G55g c5a vt5n8tm) u 
iusUn, 5U7l75l oMolmA joao, every single ,n88o,m75l
Io 85m/
Ban all indoor smoking (suggested 15 times)
Senate is mistreating Voices United Gospel Choir 
(11)
Campus food needs improvement (10)
Permit smoking in designated areas (10)
Less bias in determining funding allocations (6)
More ball courts (5)
More school spirit (5)
Need more/better available computers (5)
Housing maintenance/Physical Plant should be faster 
(4)
More hours for Dining Services facilities (4)
Permit smoking everywhere (4)
Better gym facilities (3)
Free Hershey Kisses/Food (3)
Hamerschlag House needs refurbished now (3)
Retail services (Entropy etc.) too expensive (3)
Give independent organizations funding on par with 
Greeks in competitive affairs (2)
Impeach Josh Knauer (2)
More events like Food for Thought (2)
More lights on campus after dark (2)
Not enough/inadequate campus housing (2)
Pressure to get the University Center built now (2) 
Senate needs more publicity (2)
Tear down Skibo (2)
Too much homework; theres no life (2)
I poster/board if the event is not open to all activities 
fee-paying students
Academic services improvements are not proportional 
to tuition increases
Administration needs to do more about rape on 
campus
Air conditioning in all campus buildings 
All years (not just freshmen) in picbook 
Allow microwaves in dorm rooms 
At least one cigarette machine per building 
Ban fags (verbatim quote)
Better copiers available to students
Better fire alarms
Better music selection in jukebox
Better place for musicians than the Ballroom
Better surveying and representation of student opinions
Better surveying/reviewing of instructors
Better water fountain in Morewood 2B
Bike racks should be better publicized or moved
Build a theater instead of Porter and Doherty
Buy Dave Martin an inflatable woman
Cable TV in Housing
Co-Ed apartments on campus
Cycling Club gets too much money
Dave Martin should dance nude on the tables
Do not build on the Cut
Doherty Apartments needs better plumbing
Exclusion of gays from ROTC/etc. is good
Explain Tomblyns idea of Perotian Democracy
Faculty should not smoke during office hours
Find out why Financial Aid Office is rude as hell
Food for Thought sign was stupid
Force Admissions to especially recruit female students
Fraternity Housing is not well-built
Funding and Recognition is too hostile to student groups
Get rid of booth cops
Give groups more time to handle change in fiscal policy
Glass recycling campus-wide
Graduate Coffeehouse is overpriced
Have happy hours for faculty/students to interact
Have program to meet candidates for student elections
Instructors need to speak better English
Lack of student employment positions
Library should be open 24 hours during finals
Longer add-drop period for courses
Make DineXpress valid at Co-Op/Entropy
Make resolutions/records more available to students
Make the sanitation people come later in the day - no
more waking me up
Male/female ratio makes campus community sexist 
Mass impeachment 
Mass resignations
More campus phones in public areas
More clocks in classrooms
More encouragement from instructors
More ethnic foods
More funding for non-standard sports like ultimate 
and lacrosse
More guest parking at Morewood
More money for Explorers Club
More space for Kiltie Court
New floor for MM119 Dance Studio
No acid-washed jeans
No cover sheets on printouts by default
No reasonably-priced vegetarian options in CMDS
On-line information desk 24 hours
Printer and CCon in Morewood
Put Allan Bourdius on Senate
Request faculty to eat in Dining Service twice a week 
Senate needs a list of valuable suggestions 
Senate needs an official color 
Senate needs to be more of a liaison with administra
tion
Senate needs to carefully consider smoking options 
Senate never does anything that interests me 
Senate should avoid politics and stick to CMU affairs 
Senate sucks
Send resolutions to Tartan before they are imple
mented
Senior Happy Hour on Fridays: 1 keg/week for 
Seniors to socialize 
Shuttle service to Squirrel Hill 
Snazzier Committee names 
Some fraternity posters are demeaning and sexist 
Sponsor Naked Women Beer 
Student Government needs to be more accountable 
Student Government needs to speed up insurance 
payments for organizations 
Studio space for all art students (not merely upper
classmen)
Too many partisan groups (such as Spirit) 
Transfer/dropout rate is far too high 
We need Direct Democracy
oao 857l8 m5 So uim7l8 m5 7sUeosolm ,5so 5c mto,o 
,n88o,m75l,AAnd you can become part of the implementation process! For Student Senate is looking for responsible and interested students to become Student Senators. Seats currently available: 1 MCS, 1 GSIA, 1 H&SS, 1 SCS, 1 CIT, 1 Miscellaneous Students, 2 Heinz School, and 2 CFA. Petitions for these seats are available at the Skibo Info Desk. Petitions for CFA, Heinz, MCS, and Misc seats are due by October 5. Other petitions are due by September 28 (previously announced).
Or maybe you'd like to be part of the Elections Board, responsible for overseeing Senate Elections this fall? If interested, please contact Shawn Knight, Senate's Public Relations Chair, by E-Mail at sk4p@andrew.cmu.edu or by phone at x3930. Although we recommend E-Mail!
Gnlgog S9 mto Vmngolm Rim7M7m7o, GooA

---------------------------------------------------

Warper's CaCmdarAlso occurring simultaneous with Harper's festivities are trunk shows and fashion fall previews from famous retailers such as Mondi, Polo. Ann Taylor, H. Baskin, La Pomponnee Hair Salon and Day Spa, and more. 
Sunday, September 27 2:00 p.m.. 5:00 p.m. Harper's Bazaar "'Ttic cjfaimmrousfears Preview Pal'ty and Reception Sponsored by Chatham College to benefit the Scholarship Fund 
Monday, September 28Alt Day " 125 fears of'fashion ExhibitHarper's Bazaar photo retrospective 
Tuesday, September 29Noon Harper's Bazaar Fall AccessorySeminar and Box Luncheon
Wednesday, September 3.0 6:00 p.in.-9:00 p.m. 'You on the cover of'Razaar With a professional fashion photographer and makeovers Cost: $5
Thursday. October 1Harper's Bazaar" ijfamourousSeason Cocktail Party 
A ijfai/iounw Season" Fall Fashion Show with presenter, Colleen Adams of Harper's Bazaar Tickets: $25 Call 561 -4000 for reservations
Saturday, October 3 Noon 4:00 p.m. Harper's Bazaar Informal Modeling '92 Fall looks from Galleria shops
By BARBARA REYES
Tartan Diversions Co-Editor
Ruth Rasmussen/Tartan Asst. Forum Editor
The original Harper's Bazaar logo, represented at the top, has 
been altered in the '90s, at the bottom.
Ruth Rasmussen/Tartan Asst. Forum Editor 
Each original hat adds to the impact at the exhibition.dations of the magazine by chronicling the trends of fashion while catapulting it into a new dimension, where the trends were established by the public.Tilberis now implements global perspective in the world of fashion, beauty, and art. She will continue to serve the publics needs and interests throughout the 90s.As we have done for the last 125 years, Bazaar will continue to celebrate, chronicle, and document the changing American woman every month and for centuries to come, claims the last poster in the exhibit.
Harpers Bazaar has ultimately proven itself as a representative, leader, and influence of the fashion world. Happy 125th Anniversary, Harpers Bazaar.
This article is written with the utmost gratitude to Harpers Bazaar 
and Junko Nakada, Marketing Director of the Galleria.____________
Ruth Rasmussen/Tartan Asst. Forum Editor
Vintage dresses have a beautiful, flowing quality.
DIVERSIONS
Harpers Bazaar enters an Era of Elegance
6 Kpg-ag2 Ol Tsg rnngpar gosaCaT RgngCprTamF ctz SgrpP Ol 3rpKgpjP rfrrp ????????????????

---------------------------------------------------

LL2vto vuamul y Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosSoa p11h
Recycled Productions raves CFA on Friday
By MARNI BOREK
Tartan Co-Magazine Editor
Lets finally face the dismal factsdisco and top 40 club days 
4re gone. To replace these days are the raves  industrial and techno music trips onto a dance floor lit by psychedelic lights, surrounded by projected images, and enveloped by megawatts of sound you never thought todays technology would allow for.You can find raves these days in all the major cities  New York, Los Angeles, Washington D.C. and believe it or not... Pittsburgh. And to continue this tradition a group called Recycled Productions has decided to put
Mini Music
Sa5Col
nine Inch Hails
After nearly three years, Trent Reznor, the man behind popular industrial group Nine Inch Nails has returned to the music scene. Though Reznors fans have been thrown a bone here and there in the form of songs hes remixed for other bands, and his appearance 
on Gub, the album from the industrial supergroup Pigface, its really the return of NIN that has been sorely awaited. Well, wait no. longer, because a new EP, bro
ken, has just been released.In some ways, broken is a very big disappointment. After such a long hiatus for NIN in the studio, one expects more of an effort than 33 minutes of music, though that S3 minutes is very satisfying.; The EP starts off slow, with the instrumental pinion feeding the listener with some heavily distorted guitar riffs, but quicldy picks up speed with wish, a pounding, screaming song that reaches right into the ear and pulls out the brain in a quivering pulpy mass. Or at least thats what it seemed like to me. The j-est of the EP continues in the Same vein, with three more songs hnd an instrumental rounding out the time.Reznors lyrics continue in the sqmo vein as those from his immensely successful Pretty Hate 
Machine, bemoaning the loss of loVe (and the fact that he got Screwed by his old record label) in his well-known plaintive whine though that whine is much more of a guttural scream this time around.
; Though it is not obvious at all from the packaging and track listing, there are two more songs on the EP, hidden in various ways. The version of the CD that I have includes a CD-3 with the two extra tracks. Another version of the CD simply has 99 tracks, of which Only the first six and the last two Actually have music. The cassette release has an entire side that seems blank, but has the two songs hidden somewhere near the end. These two bonus tracks seem to me to have been tacked on so that the EP is not as short &s it seems at first.However, it was a pretty good idea, since one of the extra tracks is; a NIN-ian cover of the Adam Ant song Physical (Youre too), and Trents own version of Suck, the song he co-wrote and sang for Pigface. If youre familiar with Pigface and have heard that version of Suck, youre in for a \irprise, as Trent has done Strange things to the tune.1 ;Its obvious to me that Reznor hfis been spending a lot of the last iefw years hanging out with A1 J<)urgenson of Ministry. The hpavy, almost metallic, guitars of 
broken practically scream out Ministry on their own, but when combined with grungier song production and intense distortion of Rfeznors singing voice, its even hlore apparent. If broken was to b0 compared to Ministry albums, it; would fall somewhere between 
The Land of Rape and Honey and
on a rave right on the CMU campus in the CFA foyer this coming Friday from 10 pm to 4 am.With the great music, the popular DJs, and the phenomenal acoustics in the foyer, the party is bound to be happening.Five DJs will be spinning this Friday night. First theres WRCTs own Techno Terrorists who will be playing the mainstream techno that many of us have become familiar with over the past year with the popularity of such songs as LA Styles James Brown is Dead.WRCTs Simon and DJ Guile will also be spinning techno, but with a slightly harder beat.A D J from Pitt radio, dieselBoy,
the somewhat more metallic The 
Mind is a Terrible Thing to Taste.My main problems with this disc are its length, and its packaging. The CD comes packaged in the allegedly more ecologically sound eco-pak, which was intended to replace the longbox. Of course, the eco-pak is then packaged inside a longbox, thereby using up about twice the amount of cardboard as either type of packaging would alone.This EP is definitely worth picking up, unless you are a NIN fan who does not also appreciate harder industrial, like Ministry. If so, listen to somebody elses copy of the disc before getting it. Otherwise, go out and pick it up soon  but dont pay exorbitant prices for it. (i.e., dont get it at Oasis Records in Oakland. They charge too much.) Brendan McFeely
SWEET OBLIVION
Screaming Trees
Screaming Trees is one band that has  and I say this with all sincerity  earned its flannel. Longtime forgotten sons of the Seattle scene, they have finally come into their own with their latest effort, Sweet. Oblivion.From the first, this album brings to mind images of large men in lumberjack attire swinging axes behind some little wood shack on the edge of a huge forest under a dull iron-gray sky. Not the cheeriest of ways to spend your time, but definitely worthwhile. The bass pulsates and resounds, the guitar grinds with a metallic sound, the drums bang and beat more than pound, and the vocals are gritty and seductive. In short, this album is more the essence ofthe Northwest than just Seattle  the sound is less
will be spinning the break beats, which is techno with very fast beats that start up and cut off abruptly to produce a funky fluttering rhythm.D J dieselBoy has worked at local raves like the ones thrown at Metropol and also has his own line of rave clothing which can be described as hip hoppish-skate- boarder fashion. (This type of clothing first started making waves in LA.)Last, but surely not forgotten is Dr. Suess who will be spinning at Metropol every Sunday night when the club introduces raves for all ages. He helped organize this past summers Gatorave at Metropol as well. Hell get the
urban, refined, and calculatingly grungy. Its man against the wilderness, camp fires that you need to keep warm, and, well, flannel  at its most utilitarian.
Sweet Oblivion opens up with the dark Shadow of the Season, and moves on to Nearly Lost You, a cool, hummable track which also shows up on the 
Singles soundtrack. For most of the album, Mark Lanegans vocals soar over the rhythmic strumming of the other instruments, sweeping strongmelodies and harmonies into the mix. On a few songs, most notably For Celebrations Past, (a CD bonus track) the effect is almost that of a combination of The Doors and Soundgarden, with a dash oftree bark thrown in for good measure. The Secret Kind is a head- banger of the highest order, and Winter Song is the kind of song that you can listen to 20 times in a row if youre in the right kind of self-contemplative mood. The band really goesoffanddoes some cool stuff on Julie Paradise, the last track (which unfortunately cuts off in the middle if you dub the CD onto one side of a 90- minute tape).This album sounds old and new, reminds me of winters in Little 
House on the Prairie books without any of the hot cocoa from Ma. But it somehow escapes being completely desolate. I cant call it hope, but theres some sort of undercurrent of good in the music. Maybe its the vastness of the vocals or maybe its something else. But it must be something, because right now Im listening to it for the fifth time since I got it this morning. Megan Dietz
4 LEEB R 
VD'4'R3 
NRbEAAA 
QRB
THREE 
RIVERS 
SURVIVAL 
GAME 
CALL 935-6100
 FRAT PARTIES
 BIRTHDAYS
 GIFT CERTIFICATES
Air Force ROTC Units 
Filled to Capacity
NOT!
Don! believe everything you hear. The Air Force continues to seek outstanding students to fill future officer requirements. See yourself becoming a leader, graduating from college as an Air Force officer with fully developed qualities of character and managerial ability. Notice, too, the opportunities. Like eligibility for scholarship programs that can pay tuition, textbooks, fees... even $100 in tax-free income each academic month.
Visualize a crisp uniform that reflects pride in yourself and your ability to accept challenge. Get the picture? Now make a call!
268-8747 
6Zu 3Z316Z, AN,Mh
crowds stomping on Friday night with hardcore techno which has fast beats with no breaks and very fast bass.Music on the cutting edge and a great space to dance in should be enough reason to check out the rave in CFA this weekend.The more people who show up means a greater chance for an even bigger and better experience the second time around. And there will be a second time around.Cover charge for the night is $3, and ifyou have any questions about the production, call the raveline at 734-8330.Show up ... bust out.
00/r
Asif Ikram/Special to The Tartan
Gu7mt L5 b5ao Se5I, oua gans, m5s5aa5I
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Features Editor
Tomorrow night Metropol will rock with the hard-hitting sounds of Helmet and Faith No More. This double-ear-plug show promises to be Pittsburghs indoor rock n roll event of the year.New York Citys Helmet, the opening act, is called The Next Nirvana by music industry bigwigs, but thats a load. Helmets structured, discordant, teeth-grinding sound has more in common with a car factory than Nirvana. This bandmay ormaynotbedestinedfor commercial greatness, but that really isnt the point. The point is the music, and Meantime (their major label debut after an industry-wide courtship that landed them a million-dollar contract with Interscope) kicks hard but clean. These guys play fairfrom their boarding-school haircuts to their honest, though complex, song constructions to their refreshing lack of schtick. Helmet is definitely a band to check out, but be warned  they play REALLY loud.Faith No More is a brilliant band who absolutely rules the roost of rock n roll (or at least they come close). Im not kidding. This group is undoubtedly among the best the world has to offer.You might remember these guys from 1989s
The Real Thing  the track Epic got a lot of radio airplay and was all over MTV for the entire summer of 1990 (you know, the video with the flopping goldfish). This summer, Faith No More struck again with Angel Dust, an incredible-to- the-point-of-peerlessness trip through lands that might be nice to visit, but.... Even the cover art is unsettling  one side has a beautiful snowy white bird against a midnight blue sky, but the other side has a cows head hanging in a meat locker. The band works in contrasts  hard and soft, angry and smart, beautiful and terrible.Faith No More has existed in one form or another since 1982. Its members have often fallen prey to the angry-young-man stereotype, but they are more mature and aware than that. Sure, they mean what they say  you can tell that much from the intensity with which they say it but they also have their tongues somewhere near their cheeks throughout the whole process. RV, a track from Angel Dust, is a prime example  Backside melts into the sofa/ My world, my TV, andmyfood/Besides listeningto my belly gurgle/ Aint much else to do.Fresh from opening for the Guns N Roses/ Metallica stadium tour this summer, Faith No More should be ready to get down and get off in a bit of a smaller venue tomorrow night. This incredible two-for-the-price-of-one deal should not be missed.SPORTS!SPORTS!SPORTS!
WRCT SPORTS STAFF needs people for:
y PbD G55mSuee F Qu,ComSuee Nuso, 
y Qn889 P5Moau8o 
y VU5ame7lo vueC Vt5I
VODLB 4LvEEVv4LN PR33
|u,5l b7eeomoa9 ~hphTkd
|u,5l j7goeC ~hpkd1p
u9lo Vitnua( ~hpkd1p

---------------------------------------------------

vto vuamul y Pualo87o boee5l y h2 VoUmosSoa p11h
Thursday, October 1
jouam, 5c BuaClo,,
Hearts of Darkness is a documentary, which 
details the filming of Francis Ford Coppolas Apoca
lypse Now.
Apocalypse Now was filmed in the jungles of the 
Philippines, which stood in for the jungles of Viet
nam. Director Francis Ford Coppola had many 
difficulties during the filming
One of his stars, Martin Sheen, had a heart 
attack on location. Coppola also had no inkling 
about how the film would end. The film went over 
budget; plus there was a revolution while they were 
on location.
If you liked Apocalypse Now or Heart ofDarkness 
by Joseph Conrad (the book that Apocalypse Now 
was based on), you might want to check this film 
out. It offers a behind-the-scenes look at location 
filming.
At 6, 8,10 pm.
Friday, October 2
vto zeu9oa
Robert Altmans The Player is an oddity in Holly
wood. As a film that satirizes, lampoons, and gener
ally rips to shreds the popular idea of how movies 
get made, its surprising that The Player ever got 
made.
Tim Robbins (now seen in Bob Roberts) plays a 
greedy, sadistic, arrogant studio executive who ac
cidentally murders a screenwriter and then spends 
the rest of the movie trying to cover up the incident.
Co-star Greta Scacchi plays the beautiful live-in 
girlfriend of the dead screenwriter, who is romanced 
and stolen away by Robbins.
The real fun of this movie comes with the many, 
many cameo appearances by actors, actresses, and 
directors sending themselves up.
Fun cameos include Anjelica Huston, Nick Nolte, 
Bruce Willis, and Julia Roberts. Also watch out for 
Whoopi Goldberg as a sly cop from Pasadena.
All in all, when you combine the fun of the cameos 
with the cutting satire of the script, you get a movie 
that is not only worth the buck, its worth the full 
price you wouldve had to pay in a real theater.
At 5, 7:15, 9:30 pm, midnight.
Saturday, October 3
Ga7og Naool v5sum5o,
Fried Green Tomatoes, starring Jessica Tandy 
and Kathy Bates, Mary-Louise Parker, and Mary 
Stuart Masterson, charms the movie-goer just as 
Ninny (Tandy) enthralls Evelyn (Bates) with tales 
from the 1940s deep south.
Idyllic flashbacks to rustic Alabama are soon 
tainted with tragic childhood death. Soon after, a 
heart-rending emotional bond begins to form be
tween Ruth (Parker) and Idgie (Masterson).
Before all is said and done, they will go to long 
lengths to stay together and keep each other from 
harm, including kidnapping and murder.
A good mix of tenderness and humor give this 
movie depth without sappiness. Hopeless roman
tics must see this film.
At 7, 9:30 pm, midnight.
Sunday, October 4
N7sso Vtoemoa
Gimme Shelteris another documentary-style film. 
Starring the Rolling Stones, Jefferson Airplane, 
and Melvin Belli, it documents the Rolling Stones 
and their free concert at Altamont Speedway.
For those of you who dont know, the concert at 
Altamont Speedway resulted in chaos and murder. 
Directors David Maysles, Albert Maysles, and Char
lotte Zwerin capture the events at Altamont in a 
chilling fashion.
The Rolling Stones perform some of their best 
songs: Satisfaction, Sympathy for the Devil, 
Brown Sugar, and Under My Thumb.
Get your share of sex, drugs, and rock n roll with 
a little bit of murder and mayhem thrown in for 
good measure.
At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
BY ELLEN HENDRICKSON, BRENDAN 
McFEELY, & TARA M. SEMAN
Mr. Saturday Nights l5m uee eun8t,
By AARON JENKINS
Tartan Forum Editor
Billy Crystals latest movie, Mr. Satur
day Night, is about an aging comic named Buddy Young, Jr. who wants to get back onto the stage and reclaim the glory of his youth. Crystal co-wrote, produced, directed, and starred in this film, which is not a comedy  dont go expecting to laugh.The movie has Buddy in the present, as an elderly man whose comic efforts are collapsing around him. The first half of the movie has a flash card effect to it, jumping back to Buddy and his family and friends in the 40s and 50s, then forward to these same people as they appear now. As the movie progresses, it becomes clear that Buddy is the one character who remains the same, and that he is the root of all of everyones (including his own) problems. Unfortunately, the set-up of this takes far too long  and there is no plot or story obviously being established. As such, it is very hard to sit through the first hour.In the second half, the pieces that have been dumped in the viewers lap suddenly start to make sense. Buddys relationship with his wife, brother, and daughter all become clear, and suddenly very touching. The story flows along very smoothly and very well from this point on, with the only good humor occurring in the last hour. The only happy times in the movie also occur in the final hour but are offset by a number of bad times. Luckily, the movie does end on a happy note, which wraps it up without being weepy or clich6d.
Mr. Saturday Night is not really a movie about a comicits a movie about relationships. Buddys relation to his family is bad, but its nothing compared to his relations with everyone else. Buddy is a overbearing, bitingly sarcastic old man who has been overbearing and bitingly sarcastic all his
 1992 Castle Rock Entertainment
Buddy Young, Jr. (Billy Crystal) and his manager/brother, Stan Yankelman (David Paymer) 
resolve rivalries in Crystals directorial debut, Mr. Saturday Night.
life. His personality made him a hit on the stage but a failure in his personal life, and the movies main focus is on his attempts to fix this.Buddys brother, Stan Yankelman, is played by David Paymer. Stan is Buddys manager, and has been with Buddy for the last fifty years. Theirs is the most complex relationship in the film, with barely concealed fraternal competition (and eventually brought out in cruel ways) throughout the film.Mary Mara (The Hard Way) plays Buddys estranged-since-childhood daughter, Susan, a former drug addict who is slowly gotting her life together. Unlike Stan, Susan and Buddys difficulties are presented in bas-relief they fight bitterly every time they are together. The situation is made worse because it is obvious to the viewer that they both regret everything that has brought them to this point, but neither can successfully make the first step to bring them back together.
Mr. Saturday Night is Crystals director rial debut (Crystal already having starred in the comedy City Slickers), and its a great; start. Crystal knows the character of Buddy Young, Jr. very well, having created him in 1984 and been developing him ever since. This intimate knowledge of the character certainly contributes to the smoothness of the entire movie. Also, the sense of time works very well  all of the flashbacks to the 40s and 50s arc excellent, with the right cars, clothes, furniture, haircut^/ and so on; the presentation is superb.I can wholeheartedly rocommond thlK' films acting, scenery, and boliovabilitiy.' But what I cant got by is the prosontati'oiv of the first half of the movie. All of tl'io information is necessary, but its far too slow. The viewer needs too much patience for the seven bucks that they paid too M6 it. But if you can make it through the firHi, half, this is a wonderful and touching mov|fi
1.ELLIOT SHARP/CARBON-TocSin
2.EIGHT SONGS FOR GREG SAGE
& THE WIPERS COMPILATION 
3.SONIC YOUTH-Dirty
4.SALT CHUNK MARY-Holiday 
HamTip 7"
5.CYNICS-Right Here With You 7"
6.ZENI GEVA-Nai-Ha
7.PRAXIS-TranBinutation
8.DEAD TECH 3 COMPILATION 
CD
9. JAWBREAKER- Chesterfield King
10.MEAT BEAT
MANIFESTO-Edge of No Control
11.GUY KLUCEVSEK-Manhatten 
Cascade
12.HELMET-Meantime
13.PRODIGY-Charly 12"
14.MINISTRY-Psalm 69
15.CYPRESS HILL-Latin Lingo 12"
16.ENTOMBED-Stranger Aeons 
17.SUN RA-Mayan Temples 
18.BRAND NEW HEAVIESHeavy Rhyme Experience vol.l 
19.SOME VELVET SIDE WALKAvalanche
20.GIRL TROUBLE-Playa 
Four Elvis Tunes
Submitted by Music Director 
STEVE SYNDER
n
'Q
cv
n
X
K)
u
c
5H
|bV QDV4LEVV bRPj4LEV
POzY bRPj4LEV
Hundreds to choose from 
new, repossessed, or end of lease models
NO REASONABLE OFFER REFUSED;
P.O. Box 393 
I Main Street 
Slovan, PA 15078
947-2679
Ask for Dick or Henry
SELL FUNDRAISING CANDY
LOWEST PRICES-NO RISK-TOP 
IIHANDS.REESE, M&M, HERSHEY,
AND MORE.......
CALI. FOR DETAILS Sc BROCHUREMcKeesport candy co 673-4406
*EARN EXTRA INCOME*
Earn $200-$500 weekly 
mailing travel brochures. For 
information send a stamped 
addressed envelope to: 
Travel INC., P.O. Box 2530, 
Miami, FI 33161
ACTIVISTS
PART TIME FIELDWORK
Talk to people IN PERSON and 
get them involved in petition 
signing, letter writing, elections, 
and fund-raising. Make a 
difference in environmental 
politics. Hours 5-10 pm. 
765-3053 Ask for DION
vta5n8t mto 3ougoa,t7U
Emmanuel Tillman
BoMoe5Usolm za58aus) L5amtoal
MBA/Production Supervisor
voeoi5s ga7Mo, 95n m5 7l7m7umo
Morrissville Customer Service Center
ulg ,maol8mtol itul8o 
mta5n8t5nm mto Sn,7lo,,Kf
Al Northern Telecom, our vision of the future is to be ihe world's leading supplier of telecommunications. We're exploring the potential of today's most exciting technologies. To find oul more about career opportunities, contact your placement office or call 1-8OO NORTHERN (Press Option 6) (TDD/1 -214-684-3188). An Equal Opportunity Employer.
MBA Company Presentation:
Thursday, October 1
nt
nurthcrntalacum
Technology the world calls on.

---------------------------------------------------

DL4 'EV4
Admission to all DH2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse fdms, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
The 4th Animation Celebrationshows at the Pittsburgh Playhouse nightly at 7:30 and 9:30 pm through Thursday.
Howards End plays at the Pittsburgh Playhouse nightly at 7 pm through Wednesday, September 30.
The Cannes Festival of Humour  
Part II (Worlds Funniest TV Commercials) premieres at the Pittsburgh Playhouse on Friday, October 2 and runs through October 7. Showing at 7:30 and 9:30 pm nightly.
Hearts of Darkness plays at DH 2210 on Thursday. Shows are at 6,8, and 10 pm.
The Player shows at DH 2210 on Friday. Shows are at 5, 7:15, 9:30, and midnight.
Fried Green Tomatoes plays on Saturday in DH 2210 at 7, 9:30, and midnight.
Gimme Shelter plays at DH 2210 on Sunday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Delicatessen plays at Filmmakers at the Fulton (101 Sixth Street) through Wednesday, September 30. Call 471- 9700 for show times.
Ay, Carmelal, the 1991 hit by Carlos Saura, plays Friday at 7 pm in PH 100. Sponsored by the Modern Languages Program, admission is free of charge.
Foreign language tables sponsored by the Modern Language Program will bo held each week of the Fall semester. Mondays: Hebrew Language Table (sponsored by I-Iillel) 11:30-1 pm in Morewood Cafeteria, except Sept. 28, Oct. 12, and Oct. 19; Bcntoo Lunch o 
nihongo de (Japanese Brown Bag" Lunch) at 12 pm in BII160; Tuesdays: 
Rusekil Chao (Russian) 12-1:30 pm in Morewood Cafeteria; Wednesdays: La 
Tabic Francaise (French) 11:30-1:15 pm in Morewood Cafeteria; La Mesa 
Espaola (Spanish) 11:30-1 pm in Morewood Cafotoria; Thursdays: DeutscherStammtisch(German)ll:30- 12:45 pm in Morewood Cafeteria.
cmuOUT will hold its weekly business meeting tonight at 7 pm in BH 254C.
SAE MiniBaja meeting will be Wednesday at 4:30 pm in the basement of Scaife Hall.
The Robotics Club will meet Wednesday at9 pm atthe FieldRobotics Center.
GCMSO elections will be held at the next meeting on Monday at 4:30 pm in Skibo. Contact Beth Moses at x4705.
The Association for Life will be hold- ingits biweekly meeting, open to everyone, today at 7:30 pm in Skibo 201.
The Womens Center Collectivemeeting will be held Tuesday at 4:30 pm. Meet a representative of Lynn Yeakel and register to vote.
The Legal Affairs Department, HBH1507, will have open office hours for students from 2-3 pm each Tuesday and Friday until December 15. During these times, a staff member is available to discuss logal problems, such as security deposits and leases, that are related to Univorsity life. They will not provide legal assistance for personal legal matters but can make referrals to attorneys in private practice.
Falafel Night, sponsored by Chabad House, offers good food and conversation on Tuesday at 5:30 pm in Skibo 201. The cost is $3. Call 683-7770.
1991 Universal City Studios, Inc.
Slght-laced Ruth (Mary-Loulse Parker) and Idgie (Mary Stuart Masterson), a young 
maverick, share a deep bond of friendship In Fried Green Tomatoes, showing in DH 
2210 on Saturday at 7, 9:30, and midnight.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, anon-denominational student study group for those seeking insights into who they are, a change of being, and a livable philosophy, holds regular meetings on Tuesdays at 7 pm at the Cathedral of Learning room G-13 (basement). For more information, call 343-1907.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 pm in Activity Room B of the CMU Gymnasium. Learn traditional Okinawan Karate. Beginners are welcome.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm in the first floor conference room of the Oakland Carnegie Library. The group is an open forum for writers and writ- ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU students and alumni. For more information, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett Room. For more information, call x2114.
Senior Career Goals: Learn how to clarify goals for job search or graduate school application process. Particularly useful in writing a career objective for a resum. Wednesday from 4:30 to 5:30 pm in Skibo 12.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have fun while getting involved in business activities at CMU. We offer BOC and opportunities for business contacts. All mtyors are welcome. Questions? Call Aurora at x8310.
Questioning? Positively sure? Como to the CMU Lesbian/Bisexual Womens Discussion Group for friendly talk and fun. Meetings are held on Saturdays at7 pm in the CMU Womens Center.
Carnegie Mellon Action Project 
(CMAP) is lookingto hire tutors for the following classes: 06-151 Thermodynamics, 06-201 Transport II, 09245 Physical Chemistry, 15-123 Intro to Programming & Applications (H&SS), 18-133 Intro to Digital Systems, 24 101 Intro to Mechanical Engineering, 24121 Thermodynamics I, 24141 Statics and Dynamics, 73-100 Principles of Economics, 79-104 Intro to World History, 85-100 Cognitive Processes, and 88103 Decision Making. CMAP tutoring takes place Sunday through Thursday from 6-9 pm in 220 Smith Hall. Call x2150 for more information.
official.career-center is a bboard in its second year of operation on which you can access occupational outlook data, workshop information, new Career Library book notices, campus interview postings, andjob leads for school year/off campus, summer and professional employment. All majors and class levels are encouraged to subscribe.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshop meetings every Monday at Friends Meeting House. Cost is $3. Call 276-1768 for information.
WRCT CareerLine hosted by the Career Center airs Mondays after the 5 pm news. Topic for Monday: Campus Interviewing Tips and Procedures.
The Volunteer Babysitting Net
work is looking for student/parents in
financial need of free childcare and students, staff, and faculty interested helping student/parents through babysitting. For more information, call or write David Pegher at x4840, Box 1107, or email dp31.
The East End Food Co-op presents Using Herbs as part of its Fall Workshop Series on Monday at 7 pm. Cost is $25. Call 242-3598 for information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House invite all students to a Bible Study at Tech House every Tuesday from 5-6 pm. Tech House will also host a movie night on Friday at 8:30 pm. For more information or direction, call x4391.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincycelebrates mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39. Weekend masses are celebrated at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday in the GSIA auditorium. Call The Oratory at 681-3181.
The Rite of Christian Initiation of 
Adults is held on Mondays at 7:30 pm at The Oratory, 4040 Bigelow Blvd. Anyone wishing to inquire into the Roman Catholic faith is welcome to attend Contact Sr. Bernadette Young at 681-3181.
Shabbat Shalom! For your Shabbat plans, call Chabad House at 683-7770.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday with a happy half hour (hors doeuvres) at 6 pm, services at 6:30 pm, and dinner following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
Hillel study break on Thursday at 8 pm for sundaes, ping pong, and shirt painting.Call 621-8975 forinformation.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join other young adults in contemporary, casual, and uplifting services on Sundays at 11 am in the Central Christian Church located at the comer of Fifth and Dithridge. For more information, call 621-6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Epis
copal) welcomes all students to join those who worship, serve, and fellowship there. They hold services on Sundays with a Eucharist at 8:15 am, a college class at 9:30 am, and morning worship at 11 am in their church located on the comer of Ellsworth and Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more information, call campus minister Brian Vanderwel at 621-4361.
Journey of Soul, a discussion of a book by Sri Harold Klemp, spiritual leader of ECKANKAR, will be held tonight at 7:30 pm at the Peters Township Community Center. For more information, call 348-7005 or 941- 7395.For a free spiritual information packet, call 271-4972.
Wanted to Know about Family Values.. .but were afraid to ask Saturday at 7 pm.
Hewlett Gallery presents a group show ofVisiting Art Faculty from Tuesday through Wednesday, October 7. The artists whose work is being shown are Jessica Gondek, Luis Valdovino, and Samuel Walker. For more information, call x3618.
The Pittsburgh Ballet opens their 1992-93 season with Kiss Me Kate. Performances begin on Thursday and run through Sunday at the Benedum Center. Call 456-6666 for ticket information. For more information, contact Alison Cordray at 281-0360.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers Gallery will display the works of James Abbott through October 24. For more information, call 681-5449.
The Associated Artists Gallery, located in the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, will display the works of Michael Campbell through Sunday, October 11. For more information, call 361-4235.
The National Gallery, located in the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, will display / Want To Feel The Way You Do, 
All The Time by Hiro Fukawa through Sunday, October 25. For more information, call 361-4235.
The Special Projects Gallery, located in the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, will display Illusion Within the 
Object by Mary Collins through Sunday, October 25. For more information, call 361-4235.
The Center Gallery, located in the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, will display Recent Works On Paper by Lotenero, Odom, Stem, andVanDusen through Sunday, October 25. For more information, call 361-4235.
The Main Gallery, located in the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, will display 
Rethinking Columbus by the Associated Artists of Pittsburgh through Sunday, October 11. For more information, call 361-4235.
The Center Shop, located in the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, will display 
Still Lifes by Barbara Volas through Sunday, October 11. For more information, call 361-4235.
Phipps Conservatory presents its annual Fall Flower Show entitled On the Horizon through Sunday, October11 from 9 am to 5 pm daily. For more information, call 622-6915.
Music
Jazz at Emmanuel features Pittsburgh musicians and vocalist at Emmanual Church, 957 W. North Ave. in the Northside starting at 5 pm. Free to the public. Information is availble; call 231-0454.
Jazz Ensemble performs on Saturday in the Alumni Concert Hall at 6:30 pm.
Compline Prayer at the End of the
Day is sung every Sunday night at 9:30 pm at the Heinz Chapel.
The Damaged Pies perform at The Artery Sunday at 9 pm.
Pop Art: Thirty Years Later will be presented by Jan van der Marck, Chief Curator at the Detroit Institute of Arts, as part of the Art Department Fall Lecture Series on Tuesday at 5 pm in DH 2315. Lectures are free and open to all. For more information, call x24.09
The East End Food Co-op presents Wholistic Health with Deborah Barr as part of its Fall Lecture Series on Wednesday at 7 pm free of charge. Call 242-3598 for more information.
Act One will be hosting an Audience Participation Murder Mystery at Jacquelines Restaurant in Oakland on Friday at 8 pm. Food, crime, suspicion, and mystery against an elegant backdrop of fine dining. Reservations required. Call 567-ACT1 or 683-4525.
For more information on all sports 
events, call Bruce Gerson, the Sports 
Information Director, at x3087.
The football team travels to Allegheny College on Saturday, game at 1:30 pm.
The womens soccer team plays at Brandeis University on Friday at 1 pm and at University of Rochester on Sunday at noon.
The mens soccer team hosts Waynesburg College on Tuesday at 7:30 pm and plays Brandeis University on Friday at 3 pm.
The mens cross country team competes at the Frostburg State University Invitational on Saturday at 11 am.
The volleyball team plays at Carlow College with Fairmont State College on Tuesday at 6 pm.
The womens tennis team plays Westminster College on Tuesday at 3 pm.
The mens tennis team competes in the Rolex Tournament at Swarthmore College Thursday through Sunday. Times to be announced.
The Womens Center Popular Cul
ture Series presents Everything You
Dear PG,Im not much of a feminist. And Im not homosexual, but thanks for the compliment. Erik
We cant call Sam Mom.
Marry me. Im Puerto Rican.
To the worthy master,The composite is in good hands. Signed,The worthy keepers
Its in her eyes, she wants me. Chris in a Freudian slip
Now I know what a poodle looks like when it gets back from the groomers.
I would have to say that my political outlook has changed not because of whom I know but because it gave me testicular jollies.
Casper,Go drink some milk. It does a body good (so does the sun). Crazy eights
Ya know, if hed quit calling every day, this would all be much easier.
Junior Mech Es do it in the library.
There are only three things in life that you can count on: death, taxes, and the fucking speed of light.
