Volume 87, Issue 14
Student assaulted
By KENDRICK K. CHUA
Tartan News Editor
At 1:40 am Sunday morning, a female CMU student 
was the victim of a rape, according to preliminary Cam
pus Police reports.
While walking alone on Frew Street towards Baker 
Hall, the student was assaulted by three unidentified 
men who were walking in the opposite direction. The 
student was taken forcibly by the men, one of whom 
wielded a butterfly knife, into Schenley Park. There she 
was raped by two of the men while the third acted as a 
lookout.
The student reported the incident at approximately 4 
am to Campus Police, whereupon she was trasnported to 
Magee Womens Hospital for treatment of injuries.
In a statement, Chief of Campus Police James LaPaglia 
said, This incident certainly points out that no matter 
how safe we think our campus is, there is always the 
possibility of being a victim of a crime. We [Campus 
Police] would urge people not to walk alone at night.
LaPaglia said that nightly patrols were being increased 
as a result of the incident. Plans were previously under
way to establish a student escort service across campus. 
This latter plan was introduced by Student Government 
President Natalie Gesmond at the last Student Senate 
meeting.
Dean Michael Murphy, while declining to comment on 
particular details of the incident, expressed his agree
ment with LaPaglias concerns, and said he encouraged 
students to take advantage of Campus Police services.
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Six Student Senators resign
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Student Senate started the spring semester with only two 
vacancies. However, by the meeting this Tuesday, there will 
be eight vacant Senate seats. At last Tuesdays Senate meet
ing, five Senators officially resigned and one Senator an
nounced his imminent resignation from their elected offices, 
mostly because of unforeseen conflicts and time constraints.
A major loss comes from the resignation of CFA Senator 
Moneet Singh, who served on Student Senate for three 
semesters. Singh said, There are certain organizations that 
are critical to life on campus. Those organizations that have 
a big impact get a big return. But for now, Student Senate is 
not one of those organizations. It is difficult to put so much 
into it without getting a big return.
Singhs last contribution to Student Senate was his pro
posal for a separate Human Resources Committee, which 
passed by a vote of 212-0. On the subject of human resources, 
Singh said, Senate shouldnt be about three or four individu
als, but about 30 people who decide on issues to benefit the 
campus.
CIT Senator Jonathan Kline also had to resign from Stu
dent Senate but for academic reasons. I had to prioritize 
between Naval ROTC, swimming, academics, and Senate, 
said Kline. Senate was at the bottom. He said that in the 
freshmen year of a typical Senator, Senate is not bad, but by 
the sophomore and junior year, there is too much work to 
spend time on Student Senate." Kline described Student 
Senates mcgor problem as not being representative of the 
student body but of the three percent who [vote]. However, 
Kline said of CIT Senator Greg Haverlcamp, chair of Student 
Senate, Hell do a good job running meetings and keeping 
order ... but with CMU being academically intensive, the 
Please see RESIGNATIONS, page 5
ry 1993
Tartan Rio Photo
Pleaas REeSIG NAeElT OT,IEsa,sATa pONlTG gO5 lea lr 5Et RsAnles RleOslT5 gIl 
OeelAe,an sIaET Ta5ESeOsElei
nose?goldSo whos this guv with the_________
Eric RoEhacG O KvOSSaTGC ,le5A/s5 sIa fPj uerlTpOsEle ,le5l/a Ee BTac POssaT OrsaT O 
as O oOTs lr sIa R/aaoEeS kOS JaaHaenG O Ta,TAEsEeS ahaes 5ole5lTan vc sIa Ynp/Rw
______________________________
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
y 'Ia glT/ndrOplA5 Yu.R WAE/s u5 le nE5o/Oc Os sIa bEss5vATSI fEsc
Classifieds 13 Theater' please see our story on Pa6e L9-
Comics..................................L4  CMU people volunteer their  Record-breaking CMU
Diversions............................L9 services (between classes any- swimmer wins award.
Features................................LI way).
Forum....................................6 See page LI See page 9
Sports.......................................9
Calendar...........................L12 Schlags Nose and Neurotic  What is the Mad Forest! Only
VoxPopuli........................LI 2 Living debut in Features we will know for sure unless
today! you ...
See page L2 See page L2
CMU Administration plans destruction of Skibo
By KENDRICK K. CHUA
Tartan News Editor
Skibo is coming down....
Maybe.
According to Edward Schatz, project manager 
for the University Center, the next step in the 
construction of the new build
ing after the completion of 
the new tennis courts is the 
tearing down of the Skibo 
building, which is scheduled 
to disappear before the fall 
93 semester begins. If the 
funding is in place, which it 
is not totally at this time,
Skibo will probably begin to 
come down in the month of 
June, said Schatz, who said 
Skibo would remain for an
other school year if funding 
is not available. Schatz said 
that information on funding 
would be more definite by 
February.
Presently the schedule for 
the University Center consists of 30 months of 
construction from June 1, 1993, according to 
Schatz. He estimated that student organizations
would be able to move into their new offices by 
the fall of 1995.
In the interim period, Schatz confirmed that 
most student organizations would be housed in 
the Naval building between the University Com
puting Center and the Heinz School building. If 
the destruction of Skibo remains as scheduled, 
the move to the Naval center 
would happen over the summer. 
Schatz said that the process for 
gettingtheNaval buildingis un
der way. Schatz also said that 
computer networking would be 
installed in the building but gave 
no date.
Tennis court construction is 
scheduled to end by July 1. 
Schatz said that the six courts 
would be located slightly south 
of the original position between 
two retaining walls whose pur
pose would be to support large 
amounts of soil.
Also, the walkway along the 
south edge of Resnik and West 
Wing residence halls would be 
extended in a straight line all the way to the cut. 
The courts are being put on a new foundation 
with new lighting and improved drainage.
Senate creates separate 
Human Resources committee
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Assistant News Editor
At Tuesdays Student Senate 
meeting, an amendment to the 
Student Body Bylaws separating 
the Public Relations/Human Re
sources Committee (PR/HR) into 
two independent committees was 
passed by a vote of 21-2-0. H&SS 
Senator Ann Kopchik was elected 
as chair of the new Human Re
sources Committee andappointed 
CFA Senator Jim Albert as vice 
chair. The amendment, proposed 
by former CFA Senator Moneet 
Singh, added the Human Re
sources Committee as a separate 
committee and explicitly defined 
its duties.
The Human Resources Com
mittee has two basic responsi
bilities, accordingto Singh. First, 
recordkeeping and maintenance 
refers to the Human Resource 
Committees responsibility to 
take records of Student Senate 
proposals, which include expla
nations as to what and why deci
sions were made, said Singh. He 
said that the records would there
fore assist in mak
ing related deci
sions in future Stu
dent Senate meet
ings as well as mak
ing these records 
easily accessible.
Second, person
nel management is 
a critical responsi
bility that encom
passes training,
Roberts Rules of Or
der, and the Bylaws.
This [duty] allows 
Senators to interact 
in a non-confrontational way, said 
Singh.
PR chair Shawn 
Knight belie ves that 
the amendment cre
ates a lesser bur
den on the Public 
Relations chair by 
promoting better re
lationships in Senate and be
tween Senate and the student 
body. Before, accordingto Knight, 
the duties of hunfan resources 
were his responsibility, but pubKovfn Chen/Tartan Photographer 
mVRR RaeOslT Yee ?lo,IEH gO5 a/a,san ,IOET 
lr sIa eag/c ,TaOsan mApOe a5lAT,a5 flppEssaai RsAnaes RaeOsa hlsan sl 5aoOTOsa sIE5 
eag ,lppEssaa rTlp sIa bAv/E, a/OsEle5 
flppEssaai
lie relations took priority. A lot 
of stuff kept me busy with adver
tising, posting to the electronic 
bulletin boards, and informing 
Please see SENATE, page 5
THE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 January 1993
William J. Clinton sworn in as 42nd President of U.S.
' WASHINGTON, January 20 
(AP)  President Bill Clinton 
summoned the nation to help a 
rlew generation ofleadership face 
hard truths and take strong 
stepB.... We will not shrink from 
the challenges nor fail to seize 
the opportunities.
Clinton made his inaugural re
marks juBt minutes after his 
wearing in as the U.S.s 42nd 
president.
Let us begin with energy and 
hope, with faith and discipline, 
and let us work until our work is 
done, Clinton said in the pre
pared text of his address. It was a 
flowery, flourishing speech that 
repeated his successful campaign 
themes, but as is traditional, con
tained no new initiatives.
' The new President pledged to 
uphold the U.S.s global commit
ments, having said When our 
vital interests are challenged, or 
the will and conscience of the 
ihternational community defied,
we will actwith peaceful diplo
macy when possible, with force 
when necessary. The brave 
Americans serving our nation in 
the Persian Gulf, in Somalia, and 
wherever else they stand are tes
tament to our resolve.
The 46-year-old Bon of Hope, 
Arkansas, paid tribute to his pre
decessor, George Bush, for a halfLet us begin with energy 
and hope, with faith and 
discipline, and let us work 
until our work is done.
 President Bill Clinton
century of public service. In a line 
reminiBcentof JohnF. Kennedys 
1961 inaugural, Clinton said it 
was time for a new generation to 
accept the mantle of U.S. and 
global leadership.
Today a generation raised in 
the shadows of the Cold War as
sumes new responsibilities in a 
world warmed bythesunBhineof 
freedom but threatened still by 
ancient hatreds and new 
plagues, said Clinton.
The newly elected President 
commented on the current status 
of global crises and said that the
______________ U.S. economy
wouldbe his first 
priority.
The first 
Democrat elect
ed President in 
12 years, Clin
ton said that the 
Presidency and 
Congress should 
give this capi
tal back to the people to whom it 
belongs, referring to the voters 
who elected him. Clinton also 
Bpoke on problems such as soar
ing budget deficits and health 
care costs, a fragile economy, glo
bal competition, and even voter 
cynicism about their govern
ment, which are seen by political 
analysts as obstacles to the suc
cess of the Presidency.
To renew America, we must 
be bold, Clinton said. We must 
do what no generation has had to 
do before. We must invest more 
in our own people and in our own 
future and at the same time, cut 
our massive debt. And we must 
dosoinaworldin which we must 
compete for every opportunity. 
In a direct appeal for sacrifice, 
he said, Let us put aside per
sonal advantage so that we can 
feel the pain and see the promise 
of America.
It is time to break the bad 
habit of expecting something for 
nothing, from our government or 
from each other. Let us take more 
responsibility, not only for our
selves and our families but for 
our communities and our coun
try, said Clinton.
Iraq accuses U.S. of falsifying information
BAGHDAD, January 22 (AP)  Iraqi officials said the latest 
air incident in northern Iraq was fabricated because there 
were no air defense batteries east of Mosul, the Iraqi News 
Agency reported.
As reported earlier by news services, the U.S. said the Iraqi 
surface-to-air missile radar had attempted to track a U.S. F-4G 
fighter and an F-16 flying over the northern no-fly zone near 
the city of Mosul.
The F-4G fired one missile, U.S. officials said.
It was the second such incident in two days following the cease
fire declaration by President Saddam Husseins government 
late Tuesday in a show of goodwill to the new administration 
of President Bill Clinton.
Iraqi Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed Al-Sahhaf sum
moned foreign ambassadors and told them that Iraq had not 
provoked yesterdays attack and had not violated the cease-fire.
He said the attack yesterday was an attempt by some Ameri
can circles who do not want the Iraqi initiative to succeed, 
according to an evening news broadcast.
Despite the provocative incident, Iraq will continue to ob
serve the cease-fire in order to allow the new American President 
to reconsider his countrys position toward Iraq, he was quoted 
as saying.
An unnamed Foreign Ministry spokesman said U.S. cluster 
bombs had set ablaze a fertilizer storage area and damaged 
crops, but there were no casualties suffered by Iraqi civilians in 
yes-terdays air attack.
Some foreign diplomats said they doubted that Baghdad 
authorities would deliberately undermine Iraqs position by 
provoking allied attack and said that Saddams government 
appeared sincerely interested in better relations with the U.S.
THIS JUST IN
Former Chief Justice dies
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Assistant News Editor
At 2 pm yesterday, former Chief Justice Thurgood Marshall, the 
first black member of the Supreme Court, died of heart failure at 
Bethsda Naval Medical Center in suburban Maryland, according to 
the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. He was 84 years old.
Thurgood Marshall was bom on July 2, 1908, in Baltimore, 
Maryland. He graduated from Lincoln University in 1930 and 
received hiB law degree from Harvard Law School in 1933, where he 
graduate at the top of his class. Remaining in Baltimore, he 
practiced law privately until 1940, when he became chief of the 
legal-defense section of the National Association for the Advance
ment of Colored People (NAACP).
In 1954, Marshall argued for and won his most famous case. Brown 
vs. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas overturned the sixty-year 
doctrine of separate but equal, with which the court justified school 
segregation.
President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed Marshall as solicitor 
general of the United States in July 1965, and in June 1967, he 
nominated him to the Supreme Court.
On June 27,1991, Marshall quietly retired after 25 years on the 
Supreme Court.
News briefs courtesy of 
Dow Jones, Inc.
Layout by 
Kendrick K. Chua
John Holnleln/Special to the Tartan
bTa5Enaes kE// Marra5Tle f/Eesle Oen IE5 gEra mE//OTc lnpOe 
f/Eesle gOhan sl OAnEae,a papvaT5 O5 sIac /ars sIa 
u/plA5/easTO/eOssIa/eOASATOs/leleJandea5nOcG MOeAOTc 
L$i f/Eesle gO5 5glTe ue O5 sIa DLen bTa5Enaes lr sIa 
jeEsan RsOsa5i
FOOTBALLWRCT SPORTS"Live a Dream"
You know you've always wanted to do it. 
Work on a broadcast team. 
Voice your opinions about your favorite team on the radio.
We, the members of the WRCT SPORTS staff, are living out a dream. 
So what's the big deal about WRCT SPORTS? Well. . . 
Once again, we will be presenting Sportsline, our weekly call-in talk show covering 
the hottest topics in campus, local, and national sports. 
WRCT SPORTS is also the official voice of your Carnegie Mellon Tartans. Our 
coverage includes all Tartan football games along with several basketball games. 
WRCT SPORTS is also first in providing complete coverage for that most hallowed 
of sports, Sweepstakes. 
All this and its lots of fun too. . . You'd never believe it. . .
BASKETBALL
SPORTSLINE
INTERESTED? Call Jason at x2883BUGGY

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 January 19933
Desert Flower protests return of H&SS professor
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Staffwriter
Desert Flower, a group of peace activ
ists led by Vince Eirene and Glenn 
Grodin, held a press conference on Janu
ary 18 at the Hewlett Galleiy in the CFA 
building, protesting the return of pro fessor Stephen Fienberg to the Univer
sity. Eirene called Fienberg a mission
ary for CMU, the military, and military 
contractors.
The group claims that Fienberg left 
his position as dean of the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences to de
velop what it calls a base for American 
military contractors at York University 
in Toronto.
Peter Stearns, H&SS dean, finds the 
accusations leveled at Fienberg fairly 
insulting.
I didnt always agree with what he 
did as dean, although I thought he did a 
good job, said Steams. I view the press 
reports coming out ofYork as scurrilous. 
He is not a darling of the Defense De
partment. I hope that the press reports 
that surfaced in Toronto wont gain much 
ground here. It doesnt reflect all the 
work hes done.
Desert Flower has repeatedly pro
tested what it calls the Software Engi
neering Institutes (SEIs) seemingly 
endless pursuit of more and more mili
tary contracts and alleges that Fienberg 
was recruited by York to establish a 
space/military lab similar to CMUs SEI.
I would assume that there will not be 
a change [when Fienberg returns], said 
Eirene, and that he will continue to 
encourage military contractors at CMU 
and SEI.
It became clear to us that he was 
going to encourage the construction of a 
space-military lab up there, saidEirene.
It is a persistent, malicious campaign 
against me simply because I happen to 
disagree with what they believe in, said 
Fienberg in a telephone interview from 
California.
Fienberg was Yorks vice-president of 
academic affairs. He says his job was 
similar to that of provost and that he 
was responsible for overseeing approxi
mately two-thirds of Yorks budget.
I left CMU in order to be vice-presi
dent for academic affairs in my home 
city and to help a university that sought 
me out, said Fienberg, who was bom 
and raised in Toronto.
He resigned from York after only one 
year there amid controversy over his 
management style and his plans for the 
university. Critics charged he had a 
highly intrusive management style and 
that he was recruited from CMU for the 
conversion ofYork from a humanitiesoriented undergraduate school into an 
industry-oriented campus with a strong 
emphasis on contract research...[and] 
industrial technology. Yorks student 
newspaper,Ba:caZ/6ur,quotedYorkFederation of Students president Nikki 
Gershbain as saying Feinberg showed 
little interest in consulting with stu
dents. From my understanding, he was 
a hardline manager with a focus on the 
bottom line, she said.
Fienberg said that he was in frequent 
contact with the student body at York. I 
lived for a year in a graduate student 
residence, he said. I spent a lot of time 
with students because I believe in qual
ity undergraduate education.
I was [the history department] head 
while he was dean, and I didnt find him 
intrusive, Stearns said.
Fienberg was a member of the advi
sory board to SEIs Software Process 
Program from 1988 until his departure 
in the summer of 1991. I was involved 
with the improvement of software, said 
Fienberg, and that software was pro
mulgated widely ... to corporations and 
to other universities.
In September of 1991, it was an
nounced that York University had en
tered a bid to become the home of the 
International Space University (ISU), a 
space-research program which had its 
origin in a summer technology session 
at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology in 1986. ISU had held summer 
sessions at a number of cities, but had no 
permanent home. ISUs proponents say 
that it would be a degree-granting insti
tution, devoted to activities involving 
peaceful space exploration. Its detrac
tors charge that it is merely a tool of 
American defense contractors intended 
to conduct top-secret military research.
I have been a supporter of ISU, 
Fienberg said, it is an institution devotedto the peaceful exploration of space. 
This is part of its charter, and added 
that Yorks faculty senate overwhelm
ing endorsed bringing ISU to Toronto.
In an interview with Torontos Now 
Magazine, Phillip Lapp, a member of 
the board of directors at York, said [ISU] 
doesnt do any research at the moment. 
I dont think its likely there will be any. 
And it certainly isnt our intention to 
introduce any kind of military compo
nent ... with peace breaking out every
where.
In fact, to get themselves started, 
they will take contracts from everyone, 
Eirene said, including military contrac
tors.
Fienberg's detractors woro galvanized 
in early 1992 when it was announced 
that he was one of threo finalists being 
considered for the job of Yorks presi
dent. Opposition to his appointment to 
the office came to a head in April when 
Excalibur published an investigative 
report about his background. The article 
charged that Fienbergs goal was a 
money making big-business York[in
volving] a major military and arms in
dustry presence on campus... and in the 
balance sheets.
The article, titled Stephen Fienbergs 
Corporate York, claimed that Fienbergs 
goal was to turn the university into a 
private, profit-making corporation, like 
its U.S. counterparts, a training cen
ter for multinational [corporations].
I have never done classified military 
research. I have never had or applied for 
a security clearance, and the allegations 
that I attempted to bring military re
search to York is patently false, said 
Fienberg. There is basic research fund
ing from the Department of Defense 
that is as clean and unsullied as any 
other research money.
Even if thats true, said Eirene, he 
went to another country, to another uni
versity, singing the praises of SEI.
The Excalibur article quoted uniden
tified sources at CMU as saying that 
Fienberg had a heartless approach to 
budgeting and that he prefered con
tract research over teaching and advo
cated budget cuts based on the costeffectiveness of departments and close
ties with the business community. 
[CMU was] restructured and transi 
formedinto an efficient, profit-maximiz? 
ing corporation," tho article read in part. 
This meant tho elimination of unprofit
able departments like Fino Arts and the 
trimming of faculty and swelling of class 
sizes in other non-revenue producing 
areas.
I liko to joke that the article in 
Excalibur had two things correct: the 
spelling of my namo and the fact that I 
was associated with Carnegie Mellon,? 
Fienberg said. I no longer give inter
views to Excalibur because what I say 
has no effect on what they print.
Some of these self-righteous, 
proclaimers of truth at York have never, 
checked the facts.
I have heard no examples of heartless, 
budgeting, Steams said, In fact, he 
allowed an increase in graduate stipends 
in the History Department.
York was $10 million in deficit when. 
I arrived, said Fienberg. We balanced 
the budget last year.
Opposition was led by a group ofYork 
professors called Faculty Concerned 
About Yorks Future, which viewed ISU 
as a turning point for York which would 
change the university from a diverse, 
balanced academic institution into one 
where private sector researchers would 
hold sway.
Steams said that Fienberg is techni
cally a member of the faculty, but is not 
on the payroll. When he returns this 
summer, he will be a chaired professor 
in the Statistics Department.
I left CMU reluctantly, said Fienberg. 
Im looking forward to coming back... I 
think its a terrific university."
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT
SENATE
Meeting of 19 January 1993
Roll was taken at 7:05 pm. 
Meeting was called to order at 
7:15 pm.
Senators Present: Albert 
(CFA), Bhattacharya (GSIA), 
Blankley (IM), DeRoss (MCS), 
Engel (CIT), Evans (CIT), Fadl 
(MCS), Goller (CIT), Haverkamp 
(CIT), Holzman (CIT), Jaiswal 
(GSIA), Knauer (HSS), Knight 
(MCS), Kopchik (HSS), Leventhal 
(CIT), Loomis (GSIA), Martin 
(HSS), Ortega (CIT), Potthast 
(HSS), Robe (GSIA), Singh(CFA), 
Sollimo (CFA), Spaulding (CFA), 
Tomblyn (MCS),Wallhausen 
(HSS).
Senators Absent: Morrow 
(CFA), ORorke (Heinz), Thomas
(SCS).
Audience Participation:
Aliya Khan and Dick 
Rainesberger from the Calendar 
Committee spoke about some 
problems the Committee was 
having placing Spring Break,
, Spring Carnival, and Registrationforthe 1994-5 academicyear.
Brendan McFeeley, Editor-inChief of The Tartan, introduced 
himself to Senate and made it 
known that he is the official voice 
of The Tartan.
Approval of the Minutes:
The minutes were accepted.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Brian Papa): AB Coffee 
; house presents hypnotist Chuck 
Milligan, Saturday, January 30 
, in the Skibo Ballroom, $2. Films 
; this week: Thursday, January 21, 
I A Clockwork Orange at 6, 8, 10 
' Pm, 12 am; Friday, January 22, 
! Glengarry Glen Ross at 6, 8, 10 
Pm, 12 am; Sunday, January 24, 
The Abominable Dr. Phibes at 6, 
8> 10 pm, 12 am.
GSO (Lara Wolfson): GSO
met on Wednesday, January 13; 
the next meeting is Wednesday, 
February 3. There is a Blood Drive 
n February 8 in the Morewood 
Rec Room. New hours for the 
Tilted Square are as follows: 
Monday, 11:30 am  5:30 pm; 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thurdsay 
11:30 am - 8 pm; Friday, 11:30 
1111 -12 am; Saturday 7 pm 12
am. Concert schedule for Janu
ary is posted in the cafe. New 
printed menus are coming soon. 
A GSO newsletter will be coming 
out this semester. Nominations 
are open for all executive officer 
positions.
Greek Council (Christian 
Bareford): No report.
Faculty Senate (Dean 
Murphy): No report.
Student Affairs (Tim Fos
ter): Welcome back, it was quiet 
while you were on break. Ann 
Witchner spoke about a Leader
ship W orkshop which will be Sat
urday, January 30 from 1  
4:30pm in the Wherrett Room.
SDC (Amy Potthast): SDC is
working on Tent for Carnival. 
SDC meets in the Wherret Room 
Wednesday at 7 pm. Feel free to 
drop by if you are interested in 
participating. RA applications for 
1993-4 are available at the 
Morewood and Donner Desks and 
the Housing Office. Highlander 
will play this Saturday at 6,8,10 
pm, 12 am.
President (Natalie Gesmond): Welcome back! I would 
like to announce a project that I 
was working onlast semesterthat 
will begin in February. A student 
Security Task Force has been 
developed to ensure faster, safer 
transportation on campus. I have 
worked with Police Chief LaPaglia to develop this concept 
further. Students will be equipped 
with police radios and official se
curity sweat shirts and identifi
cation and will be placed strate
gically on campus to escort stu
dents from building to building. 
The selection process will begin 
by sending out a letter to all cam
pus organizations to solicit inter
est. Interested students will be 
interviewed and trained by 
CMUs crime prevention team. 
The Security Task Force team 
will also serve as an advisory 
board for Campus Police which 
will meet throughout the school 
year to offer input and sugges
tions. If interested, I can be con
tacted by calling x4935 or the 
Student Government office at 
x2115 or by email to ngOn. I look 
forward to working with you this 
semester.
Treasurer: There is presently 
no treasurer.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Yaman 
Fadl): There will be a meeting 
tonight following Senate. The 
vice-chair is Dawn Wallhausen. 
Well be talking about reducing 
the amount of work profs give at 
Carnival.
Campus Affairs (Burt Holz
man): The first meeting was at 6 
pm tonight. We talked about 
smoking in dining areas, poster 
policy, cover sheets on printouts, 
bike racks, shuttle escort service, 
and the physical plant. The next 
meeting will be Tuesday at 6 pm 
in the Senate office.
Funding and Recognition 
(Dave Martin): Im passing out 
a schedule of the Spring 1993 
F&R budget process which is not 
flexible. F&R meets Sunday at 3 
pm in the Senate office.
Public Relations/Human 
Resources (Shawn Knight):
There will be a brief meeting af
ter tonights meeting to finalize 
the time of tomorrows meeting. 
Jim Albert is the vice-chair.
Chair (Greg Haverkamp):
There are many vacancies on 
Senate as of tonight: two CIT, one 
CS, one Heinz, one CFA, one IM, 
one Misc. Petitions are at the 
Skibo Info Desk. Tonight there 
were resignations from Byler, 
Holden, Kline, and Singh.
There will be a Senate meeting 
on Tuesday, March 9 and Thurs
day, March 11. We have to elect 
representatives for PSFB by Feb
ruary 23. All legislation will be 
delayed one week from time of 
introduction to time of consider
ation. We will be numbering leg
islation this semester. The Sen
ate office was broken into during 
finals week but nothing was 
taken. I want to try to make Sen
ate an efficient body this semes
ter.
Old Business:
Amend Article IV, Section III 
of the Bylaws to include:
8. Duties of the Human Re
sources Committee
a. Be responsible for the plan
ning and coordination of educa
tional workshops and seminars 
for Student Senate and its stand
ing internal committees.
b. Be responsible for maintain
ing records of Student Senate 
transactions over the course of 
each session.
c. Ensure that each Student 
Senator isprovidedwiththemost 
up-to-date version of these By
laws.
d. Ensure that the Student Sen
ate office is maintained in a clean 
and orderly condition.
e. Take responsibility for any 
business charged to it by Student 
Senate.
Also, replace Public Relations 
and Human Resources with the 
separate committees, separate 
the chairs of these committees 
where needed, and add the chair 
of HR as #3 in Section VI in line 
of Presidential Succession and 
move Chair of PR to #4.
Roll call vote was taken:
Albert (yes), Bhattacharya 
(yes), Blankley (yes), DeRoss 
(yes), Engel (yes), Evans (no), Fadl 
(no), Goller (yes), Holzman (yes), 
Jaiswal (yes), Knauer (yes), 
Knight (yes), Kopchik (yes), 
Leventhal (yes), Loomis (yes), 
Martin (yes), Ortega (yes), 
Potthast (yes), Robe (yes), Singh 
(yes), Sollimo (yes), Spaulding 
(yes), Tomblyn (yes), Wallhausen 
(yes).
The amendment passed by a
vote of 21-2-0.
New Business:
1. Elect Chair of Human Re
sources:
JamesAlbert and Ann Kopchik 
were nominated. By a vote of 11- 
10, Ann Kopchik is the new Chair.
2. Eight amendments to the 
bylaws will go to Ex-Comm for 
consideration.
Points of Discussion:
Issues discussed included 
poster policy, Singhs resignation 
and vacancies on Senate.
Announcements:
 Orientation '93 still has a fow; 
spots left. Getapplicationsin Stu-1! 
dent Affairs or call Tony at x4649.
Tom Murphy, a candidate for; 
Mayor, is accepting proposals; 
from students about how tho city] 
should be run.
ExComm will meet Thursday; 
at 6 pm.
Meeting adjourned at 9:45 pm.J
Submitted by; 
NAOMI ByKEyKN
Edited by! 
KENDRICK K. CHUA
Correction...
In last weeks story Class of '96 gets reoriented", the 
amount of money spent by Student Affairs was given errone
ously. Student Affairs spent $3,500 on the reorientation 
program.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of 
suchanerror,contactTartanEditor-in-ChiefBrendanMcFeely 
at 2111, or write him in care of The Tartan, Skibo 50.
imported groceries 
party trays 
office lunches 
lunch deliveries 
Come in and see our new sit-down addition!
flafil sandwich 
gyro sandwich 
greek salad
$2.50
$2.95
$2.35
Ookste firm
PleasReES I PGGNATO,ps 
gO5ORsrs I tNAsOR 
nlErERs
DRIC .HUCR AFK
Lunches from $350 Dinners from $595
At1: 40a mStuntdn:
y0ori M-F 11:30-2:00 guoo:, M-Sat 5:00-9:00 
fnel:C M0oCtU
256 N. Craig St. . 681-9883

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 January 1993
Student organizations participate in Roe vs. Wade anniversary events
By MIKE KEATING
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Two campus organizations, the 
Association for Life and the Cam
pus Association for Reproductive 
Rights (CARR), participated in 
events observing the twentieth 
anniversary of Roe vs. Wade on 
Friday, January 22. While nei
ther group dem onstrated publicly 
on campus, neither let the day go 
unnoticed. A group of 10 mem
bers of the Association for Life 
traveled to Washington, D.C., to 
take part in the 19th annual 
March for Life. They will also 
attend various pro-life confer
ences in the area.
CARR has plans of a more local 
nature for observing the anniver
sary. While some members par
ticipated in a rally at the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, the primary 
activity planned is the showing of 
an HBO documentary Abortion: 
Desperate Decisions. The show
ing will be open to the whole 
campus, and is projected for two 
weeks from now.
The .Roe vs. Wade decision, and 
its potential for ambiguity, split 
concerned citizens into the pro
life and pro-choice factions. Over 
the past 20 years many groups 
have been drawn into the debate, 
including religious denomina
tions, political parties, and 
smaller local groups such as 
CMUs Association for Life and 
feARR.
 The Association for Life, led by 
do-chairs Aileen Connolly, senior
biology and psychology miy or, and 
Mark Sanders, junior psychology 
and applied history major, is a 
group of aboutl5 active members 
and as many as 40 associate mem
bers. Founded three years ago, 
the organization has had a rough 
time on a campus that both pro
life and pro-choice groups de
scribe as largely pro-choice.
A lot of the campus is either 
apathetic or pro-abortion. Its like 
its not cool to be pro-life, said 
Sanders, adding that If theyre 
not with us, theyre against us. 
To be against the pro-life move
ment is to be pro-abortion. 
Weve had quite some opposi
tion, said Connolly. She claims 
that the group has also had to 
work against some problems con
cerning coverage. The coverage 
is improving, though. We appre
ciate being covered.
Sanders has participated in a 
march on Washington once be
fore. The place was just packed. 
There must have been 100,000 at 
least. Various news sources have 
estimated that this years march
ers numbered nearly 75,000. The 
following will give you an idea of 
how biased the media is against 
the pro-life movement, says 
Connolly. In this mornings Post 
Gazette, the sponsors ofthe March 
for Life were quoted as saying 
there were approximately 
250,000 people there, the largest 
turnout in 20 years. The National 
Park Service grossly underesti
mated the number of people at
tending the march when they
claimed 75,000 were there.
CARR is coordinated by junior 
Rebecca Livingston. Operating 
out of the Womens Center, mem
bers participate in a variety of 
activities, such as conducting 
fund-raisers for the Clara Bell 
Duvall foundation and escorting 
women at abortion clinics. 
Livingston acknowledges that the 
campus is largely pro-choice, call
ing it moderate to liberal. Most 
people are pro-choice, but pro
lifers and conservatives are very 
outspoken.
Livingston is outspoken as 
well. She describes the pro-life 
movement as somewhat femi
nist, butnotentirely... The move
ment is made up of people who 
want the government out of our 
lives. She also says that the pro
life movement starts with young 
girls, poor women. They take 
away their rights. By the time 
other womens rights are in dan
ger, it will be too late to stop it. 
[The pro-life movement] is slowly 
chipping away at our power.
With the new Clinton adminis
tration, both groups are antici
pating changes. On Friday, 
Clinton made several controver
sial decisions: lifting the bans on 
counseling about abortion in federally-funded clinics, on the RU486 abortion pill, and on the use 
of aborted fetal tissue for re
search.
Understandably, the two cam
pus groups hold very different 
opinions of the upcoming admin
istration. The Reagan-Bush
years were very goodfor us, said 
Sanders. Clinton could wipe out 
12 years of work in a few days.... 
If there are pro-lifers out there, 
now is the time to stand up for 
what you believe. In a few years 
who knows what can happen? 
Connolly echoed this, saying, I 
hope that the pro-lifers come out 
and support us. Join in our fight.
Livingston is optimistic. I 
think [the abortion issue] is the 
one thing hes not going to back 
down on. I expect him to fulfill all 
of his promises in four years. We 
cant lose. I do expect more pro
life groups to become more vio
lent and aggressive. I think its 
going to get more sickening.
In 1973, the Supreme Court 
handed down a 6-3decision which 
declared thatthe rightofa woman 
to have an abortion was protected 
constitutionally.
This decision was not without 
its restrictions. The state could 
interfere with an abortion for 
moral reasons, to protect the 
womans health, or to protect po
tential life. Also, the decision set 
up regulations that changed with 
each trimester of a womans preg
nancy. During the first trimes
ter, the state could not legally 
interfere in any way with an abor
tion. Duringthe second, the state 
had the power to interfere only to 
protect the womans health. Dur
ing the third trimester (the time, 
said the court, at which the fetus 
was capable of independent life), 
the state had the power to re
strict abortions altogether.
Senate creates new committee
SENATE from page 1
the campus media, sol assigned 
[Singh] to work on the work
shops and Senator relation
ships.... Now, the Human Re
sources Committee [is respon
sible for] the planning of work
shops and the improving of 
Senator relationships.
MCS Senator Michael Tomblyn, vice-chair of Student Sen
ate, describes the Human Re
lations Committee as a great 
new committee [that is] really 
necessary.
At the Senate meeting, he 
said he was pleased to see that 
Senators have kept an open 
mind on the issue. I was very 
glad that a few members [of 
Senate] changed their votes 
after listening to fellow Sena
tors. Im glad they had an open 
mind enough to change their 
votes, he said.
CIT Senator Burt Holzman, 
chair of Campus Affairs, was 
one of the Senators who 
changed his vote from no to 
yes. He said that when he 
heard about the separation for 
the first time, it sounded to him 
like a waste of resources. 
After the discussion, 
Holzman said, several impor
tant points changed my mind. 
Human Resources wouldintroduce new Senators during the 
transition, since I have seen 
the confusion ofnew Senators.... 
I kept an open mind. 
However, one of the two nega
tive votes came from MCS 
Senator Yamam Fadl, chair of 
Academic Affairs. She said, At 
first, I thought it wasnt bad at 
all. But what about Student 
Senate in the future? There is 
a strong interest in Human 
Resources now, but Senators 
in the long run may find it not 
reliable.
Fadl also said that she would 
want it to remain as one com
mittee with Public Relations. 
We need more people who are 
willing to work for it.
CIT Senator Rob Evans cast 
the other vote against the Hu
man Resources Committee 
amendment but could not be 
reached for comment.
As for the success of the new 
Human Resources Committee, 
according to Tomblyn, The 
next two semesters will dic
tate what the committee does 
and what its identity is. Well 
see it as one of the most impor
tant parts ofStudent Senate.... 
We feel that it wont only ben
efit Student Senate but the 
campus community as a 
whole.
Knight agrees that the Hu
man Resources Committee will 
work. There is no doubt that 
under [Kopchik and Spauld
ing], Human Resources will get 
off to a good start. It will be a 
respected committee, and there 
will be Senators who will want 
to join it, said Knight. People 
will be glad it exists.
CMU establishes commission to investigate minorities
By HEIDI HOOVER
!Tartan Contributing Editor
 A Commission on the Status of 
tJnderrepresented Minorities at 
Carnegie Mellon, which formed last 
spring, hopes to complete a final report 
by next fall, according to co-chairs 
Everett Tademy, director of equal op
portunity programs, and Joe Trotter, 
professor of history. The commission is 
Studying the situation of four minority 
groups at CMU  Blacks, Hispanics, 
Asians, and Native Americans.
\ Provost Paul Christiano and Univer
sity President Robert Mehrabian gave 
the commission its charge: to update 
nd assoss information on the status of 
Underrepresented minorities at CMU, 
Examine to what extent the needs of 
linorities arc being met or are not being 
met, develop plans for attracting minor
ity students to CMU, and develop rec
ommendations for implementing the 
plans.
 The commissions scope is limited to
racial minorities because the issues fac
ing these groups are complicated enough 
without trying to cover groups such as 
gays, lesbians, and bisexuals or reli
gious minorities like Jews, said the co
chairs. It will, however, address the is
sues facing these groups within the con
text of its charge. We dont exclude any 
issues, such as sexual orientation or 
anti-Semitism, said Trotter, but look 
at them within the framework of [their 
effect on racial minorities].
For example, said Tademy, the prob
lems faced by a gay black man are differ
ent than those faced by a heterosexual 
black man, and the commission wants to 
examine both situations. Some find
ings, I think, will be transferable in the 
sense of valuing differences as well, he 
said. Spxual orientation, he believes, is a 
subject for a future commission.
The commission was first set up last 
spring by Mehrabian and Christiano. 
The president and the provost have 
said, This is something we want to see 
happen, so we feel like theyre really
behind it, said Trotter. He said the 
commission currently comprises about 
24 members who represent faculty, staff, 
and students. Members of the minori
ties being studied are included, but mem
bers of the majority also sit on the com
mission, and there is a good mix of men 
and women, he said.
We want to see an expansion of own
ership of this issue in the campus com
munity climate, said Tademy. This 
shouldnt be just a minority issue.
Last spring Tademy and Trotter gath
ered data to pick out trends in minority 
enrollment at CMU. They found that in 
the late 1960s and early 1970s there was 
a strong upturn in minority recruitment 
and a higher minority presence on cam
pus. In the 1980s, however, there was a 
downturn.
Tademy and Trotter arent sure why 
this trend occurred, whether economic 
changes in the U.S., the campus atmo
sphere, or other factors caused it. Tademy 
emphasized, however, that the entire 
University was behind the importance
of issues involving minorities in the 
1960s.
Complicating the issue farther is the 
fact that changes in minority status have 
varied in degree and effect for the differ
ent minorities, and also for the different 
populations  staff, faculty, and stu
dents.
Three subcommittees formed and be
gan to collect information. Each sub
committee is examining a different popu
lation  one focuses on faculty, one on 
staff, and one on students. They have 
been collecting statistics from the testi
mony of members of the campus commu
nity who come forward confidentially.
Each subcommittee studies the mi
nority presence in its assigned popula
tion, the roles members of minorities 
play in professional and academic cam
pus activities, and the ways members of 
minorities are assigned and promoted 
at Carnegie Mellon.
The commission originally projected 
last December as the completion date 
for the subcommittee reports, but the
subcommittees have been inundated 
with information, and need more time to 
analyze the raw data. As we go through 
the process, said Tademy, each action 
we take opens more questions and en
genders more action.
Otto Davis, the W.W. Cooper Univer
sity Professor of Economics and Public 
Policy, co-chairs the staff subcommit
tee. Davis is pleased with the response 
to a questionnaire the subcommittee sent 
out to all University staff members. 
About 21 percent of the 2082 question
naires have been returned so far, and 
people thought very carefully about 
what they were saying, said Davis.
Tademy and Trotter now expect the 
subcommittee reports to be finished by 
May, and hope to complete the final 
report over the summer.
Any member of the Carnegie Mellon 
community may comment about the sta
tus of minorities or offer testimony by 
sending email to Joe Trotter and Everett 
Tademy at minorities+@andrew or cam
pus mail c/o Tademy, WH 403.
PENNSYLVANIA GOVERNOR'S 
SCHOOL FOR THE SCIENCESGeorge Coates
Artistic Director
Undergraduate summer employment at CMU will be available with the 
Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences. The PGSS is a five-week 
summer school for very talented high school students from Pennsylvania. 
Teaching Assistant/Counselor appointments will be available for biology, 
chemistry, and physics laboratories, as well as tutorial duties in computer 
science and mathematics.
Preference will be given to upper level scholastically sound applicants. 
You will be expected to simultaneously serve as dormitory counselors and to 
live in the same dormitory as the PGSS students, see that the PGSS disciplinary 
rules are adhered to, provide tutorial help in the academic program, and con
duct social activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $1000-$1400 
(Depending on experience)
Free room and board.
School is in session from June 27 to July 31.
Counselor duties begin June 24, end July 31.
Applications for an interview are available in DI I 2201. 
For further information, contact Gerry Rensko, Ext. 6669.
Science Meets the Arts
l
4:30 pm 
Tuesday, January 26,1993 
Ballroom, Skibo Hall
O ii the frontiers of technology and art. director George Coates has combined the two 
to dazzle his audiences when they enter his world of virtual reality.
Creating a group called SMARTS - "Science Meets the Arts. Coates has connected 
artists w ith high-tech engineers and entrepreneurs. His productions enable audiences 
to interact with his mixture of live performers and special effects. While computer 
graphics arc widely used in film and video, Coates says, This is the first time that 
computer-generated visions have been used in theater, mixed with live performance 
in real time. The idea is to immerse you in a total environment, mixing live actors 
with 3-D imagery created with stereo-optic photography.
Free and open to I he public.
The President's Distinguished Lecture Series is organized by Faculty Senate, chaired by Associate 
Professor Richard Florida of the 11. John I icinz tit School of Public Policy and Management and 
funded hv die Office of the President.
Application Deadline: March 4,1993.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 January 1993
New Development VP presents ideas at Faculty Senate meeting
By STEPH STINE
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Thursday afternoon at the Faculty Senate 
meeting, Eric Johnson presented his goals as 
Carnegie Mellons new Development Vice Presi
dent. After briefly introducing himself and his 
background in fundraising, Johnson spoke on his 
views on his role in the development of CMU.
Specifically, Johnson plans to work closely with 
the individual colleges on development issues. 
Development is not just a Warner Hall enter
prise, Johnson emphasized.
Johnson intends to increase his staff, particu
larly by establishing new director of development 
positions. These directors will work in conjunction 
with the deans and department heads in each 
college to coordinate fundraising projects.
Other organizational priorities disclosed by 
Johnson at Thursdays meeting include the in
crease of corporate financial support for CMU and 
the improvement of communications and general 
relations with CMU alumni. Johnson emphatij cally stated his desire for CMU to attain the best 
stewardship possible.
Elaborating on his plans to gain wider support of 
I CMU alumni, Johnson stated the necessity of build
ing class infrastructure. More frequent class re[ unions would be vital to this improvement. It was 
also pointed out that CMU alumni need to be made 
aware of changes made within the university.
Johnson plans to pursue a number of funding
priorities, especially the completion of the many 
building projects such as the new University Cen
ter. However, upon questioning, Johnson stated 
that the status of New Skibo still depends on 
that one major gift. He did not elaborate on what 
that gift was. The building project priority tops his 
list, followed by the analysis of the resources of 
CMUs undergraduate program. Ultimately, 
Johnson wishes to make it possible for the program 
to move into the top ten in the nation.
Johnson spent the past 20 years specializing in 
fundraising at MIT. As a result, he developed an 
expertise in acquiring corporate support. In addi
tion, Johnson spent seven years in industry.
Earlier in the Faculty Senate meeting, Jay 
Kadane announced the resolution of the faculty 
executive meeting with the executive committee of 
trustees on January 18. The ability of undergradu
ates to enroll in courses outside their majors was 
the main topic of discussion at the meeting. Al
though this university prioritizes the training of 
undergraduates for their careers, Kadane expressed 
a desire to give undergraduates every available 
opportunity to diversify their knowledge. As a 
result, the difficulties some students who wish to 
take courses outside their majors are currently 
facing should be countered.
At the next Faculty Senate meeting on February 
18, Charles Lowry, the new University librarian, 
will be the keynote speaker. Other topics of discus
sion will concern the alumni relations group and 
the undergraduate flow between colleges at CMU.
Senate seats emptied by 
resignations
RESIGNATIONS, from pogo 1
impact of Student Senate is barely felt.
Heinz Senator Jo Ann Holden also resigned 
because of time constraints. I didnt feel that I 
had the time to devote to Student Senate, said 
Holden. She said that she did not think nega
tively about Student Senate, though she also 
said that people should know that Student Sen
ate is involved with other student activities. She 
said that academically, she is overly committed, 
especially with internships.
SCS Senator Court Demas, who left CMU 
temporarily for the spring semester, was forced 
to resign. His only statement was that he did not 
have enough experience on Student Senate. 
CIT Senator David Byler also resigned, but he 
could not be reached for comment. Finally, CFA 
Senator Matt Morrow will officially resign this 
Tuesday due to an evening class conflict. Cur
rently, the number of definite vacancies are as 
follows: two CIT, one CFA, one Heinz, one IM, 
one Miscellaneous, and one SCS. According to 
Haverkamp, petitions are now being accepted to 
fill these vacancies. The petition must contain 
the name, college, address, and phone number of 
the candidate, along with 25 signatures from 
members of the candidates college.
Write For
NEWS
Crime and Incident Report  
Student Senate Minutes  
Investigative Reporting  
Construction Update  This 
Just In  Carnegie Mellon in 
Brief  Inside
Call Kendrick or 
Frank at x2111
i.N
3
.,'1
ifr
Do you.
have difficulty discerning what is most 
important as you read a textbook chapter?
finish reading a textbook chapter and find 
that you dont remember much of what you 
have read?
have trouble making connections between 
what you read in your textbooks and what 
you are learning in class?
read too slowly?
find that you are always behind in reading 
assignments?
If you answered yes to any of these questions or if you are 
just interested in improving your reading skills, the Critical 
Reading Workshop can help you. This non-credit workshop 
for undergraduate students begins on Tuesday, February 2, 
1993 and will meet every Tuesday from 4:00 pm to 5:00 pm 
for six weeks. The workshop will present an overview of 
reading comprehension strategies for course materials. 
Registration is required and the workshop is limited to 20 
students. A text ($25.00) is required for the workshop.
For more information and/or to register, call Marcia Wratcher or Kim Reed at 268-6878.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Resignations damage 
Senates credibility
At last Tuesdays Senate meet
ing, Senate Chair Gregory Haverkamp announced the resig
nation of fi ve Senators. These 
resignations bring the total 
number of vacancies in Senate 
to seven, and Haverkamp has 
hinted that more people may 
resign. ThelossofeffectiveSenators such as Moneet Singh, 
among others, is frustrating. 
Such sudden changes in Stu
dent Senate are unacceptable 
and, more importantly, avoid
able. They create a leadership 
vacuum that is difficult to fill.
Several Senators cited heavy 
course loads as a prime reason 
for resigning. This demonstrates 
no consideration for their con
stituents. When considering 
running for an elected position, 
a person must take into account 
the responsibilities of a Sena
tor. These duties include more 
than spending a few hours de
bating every Tuesday night. 
Senators must spend time work
ing on one of several commit
tees. Aspiring Senators must 
realize that their most impor
tant responsibility is represent
ing their constituents.
For these reasons, Senators 
cannot simply call it quits. They 
must plan ahead, to avoid con
flicts. Senators and Senatorselect must make sure the re
quired work will not be a bur
den beyond what they are will
ing to take on. If they decide 
that they will not be able to 
carry out their duties, they 
should resign. However, they
must inform Senate in advance, 
so as to give ample time to fill 
the vacancy.
Of course, students who feel 
they have time and dedication 
should consider running for Sen
ate. Student apathy is rampant 
on this campus, and an honest 
attempt by anyone to get in
volved and make a difference 
would be welcome. Before doing 
so, however, a person should 
know if he or she can afford the 
time and the commitment. Be
ing on Senate is more than an 
extra-curricular activity with 
which to pad ones resume. It is 
a major responsibility, and even 
the most motivated Senators 
contribute little to Student Gov
ernment if they suddenly resign 
at the beginning or in the middle 
of the semester.
Senate itself can help this situ
ation. With its creation last 
Tuesday of an independent Hu
man Resources committee to 
deed with internal problems and 
help Senators relate to one an
other, Senate has also created 
an organ that can aid new Sena
tors in determining exactly how 
much of a time commitment 
Senate will be.
Those Senators who resigned 
probably had good reasons for 
doing so. The shock of these sud
den resignations could have 
been minimized if the Senators 
had planned ahead. Leaving 
abruptly is more than just quit
ting Senate  its quitting on 
the constituents who elected 
them in the first place.Forum: an arena for 
many opinions, ideals
Newspapers are relatively pre
dictable  theres the news, the 
sports, the comics, and the liv
ing and entertainment sections. 
Often, there is very little oppor
tunity to respond to what we see 
in print. At The Tartan, we find 
value in the exchange and clash 
of ideas. The Forum pages are 
our way of fostering this ex
change, so we try to provide a 
spectrum of opinions to allow 
you to be the judges. To that 
end, youll find the following 
types of pieces in this section:
 Editorials always appear in 
the leftmost columns of the first 
Forum page. They are unsigned 
.because they represent a con
sensus opinion of The Tartans 
Editorial Board.
' While we believe our editori
als offer sensible, accurate com
mentary, please feel free to dis'agree with uswe dont have a 
monopoly on the truth. We 
would love to know what you 
think of what we think. An ex
cellent means to do this is to 
write a letter to the editor.
 Letters to the Editor may be 
submitted by anybody, although 
when space gets tight we will 
favor letters from members of 
the University community. You 
should realize that opinions rep
resented in a letter are those of 
the author and not of The Tar tan. All letters are subject to 
editing for size  letters cant 
be more than 350 words  and 
grammar. But we never edit a 
letter for content.
Letters to the Editor
Oi
Thistle commended for 
yearbook supplement
Editor:
I would like to 
thank The Thistle 
yearbook for the 
pleasant surprise i Letter to 
found in my mailbox Editor
when I returned home 
for the holidays: the 199192 Thistle 
Yearbook Supplement. The supplement 
nicely rounds out the 91-92 yearbook, 
leavingthe Class of 92 with fond memo
ries of the events of our last year at 
Carnegie Mellon.
I am sure that the rest of the Class of 
92 joins me in thanking The Thistle for 
this final reminder of our days at 
Carnegie Mellon.
Ross Comer 
Class of 1992
Israel unfairly criticized 
by columnist
We reserve the right to reject 
letters we feel are libelous, ob
scene,.or incoherent. But well 
be glad to discuss any letter 
with the author and see if we 
can reach a compromise. In or
der to discuss this, we need to 
know who you are. We are will
ing to withhold the authors 
name from a letter to the editor, 
but our editor-in-chief needs to 
know who wrote it. Please, dont 
send us anonymous letters  it 
just frustrates us because we 
have no way to contact you, and 
it annoys you because your let
ter doesnt get published.
 Persons Opinion is just that
 the opinions of randomly 
polled persons, usually students 
at CMU, on a different question 
weekly. The people in Persons 
Opinion have no affiliation with 
The Tartan. Their opinions are 
not related to The Tartan.
 Columns are regularly ap
pearing opinion pieces pre
sented by individuals who are 
usually members of the CMU 
community. Unsolicited col
umns generally cannot be used, 
though if you feel the desire to 
contribute regularly, contact the 
Forum editor. Opinions in these 
columns are those of the colum
nist and not of The Tartan. 
Again, feel free to disagree with 
them and to let them know, 
through a Letter to the Editor.
We hope Forum makes for 
some interesting reading, and 
we are always open to sugges
tions for ways to improve it.
Letter to 
the Editor
OEditor:
I agree with David 
Hunt [America Sup
ports Human Rights 
Abuse, 1/18] that de
portations of people 
are terrible. Witness what is currently 
happening to the people of Yugoslavia, 
or what happened a year ago to the 
Gypsies who were living in Germany 
and were forced back to Rumania, or to 
the Palestinians who had lived in Ku
wait before the Iraq invasion.
However, from all that I have studied 
I conclude that while Hunts article is 
laden with emotion, it is absent fact. So 
let me cite a few facts:
1. The Palestinians who were deported 
were members of an organization called 
Hamas (which was mentioned once in 
passingin the article). Through its writ
ten material and through its spokespeople, Hamas has consistently called 
for the destruction of Israel and the 
killing of all Israelis.
2. Unlike even the P.L.O., Hamas has 
stated it will never seek to talk peace 
with Israel.
3. Hamas has murdered hundreds of 
fellow Palestinians because those Pales
tinians did not think correctly or act 
correctly" in accordance with Hamas 
fundamentalism. So, it doesnt matter 
whether members of Hamas are profes
sors, students, or laborers. What mat
ters is their goal of violence. I contend 
that should such a group exist in the 
United States we would be as worried as 
the Israelis are, and we would take ac
tion too.
I would also like to remind Hunt that 
Israel not only wants to conclude peace 
treaties with her neighbors but has pur
sued this goal for four decades. Need I 
remind him that only Egypt has a peace 
treaty with Israel. No one else has yet 
signed, but at least everyone is now 
talking with Israel.
Finally, because we so often neglect it 
and forget it, it is important to remem
ber that, yes, Israel is the only demo
cratic country in the Middle East. That 
is why Hunt and all of us have access to 
so much information. That is why the 
press and television crews are there while 
they cannot cover events in Syria or 
Saudi Arabia. That is why there are 
political parties and parliamentary de
bates and free expression in Israel. You 
cant find these in Kuwait, Iraq, or 
Yemen.
So I say stop beating up on Israel. 
Read and study a bit more and ask some 
hard questions. Maybe we dont agree 
with Israeli policies on some issues, but 
I believe that as responsible and learned 
adults we are obligated to support Israe
lis and their quest to live their lives in 
peace.
Jennifer Meyers 
Senior, Art
Friends important In 
order to cope at CMU
Editor:
I would like to con
gratulate The Tartan 
on an excellent edito
rial last week about 
intervention
more than hint at the fact that he or she 
has a problem. As friends, we should 
always be looking out for these small 
hints because many times these small 
hints are actually cries for help.
Unfortunately, there are many people 
here that have no one to talk with. There 
are many people who get up in the morn
ing, go to class, come home, go to dinner, 
and go back home without ever having a 
person to say hi to. It is very surprising 
how much a simple Hello or a warm 
smile could mean to a person who is 
depressed and has nobody to turn to. 
There are just so many small things that 
one can do to brighten up somebody 
elses life.
It is very difficult to write about a 
subject as important as this while being 
so limited in space. So in just a sentence 
what I am trying to say is watch out for 
your friends, be there when they need 
you, and be friendly to as many people as 
you possibly can. Even though you may 
not realize it, you could be doing a world 
of good for somebody who desperately 
needs it.
Amit Shah 
Sophomore, Math/CS
Condolences to Theta XI
on
Letter to the Editor
Letter to 
.. the Editorcrises intervention 
and the availability of counseling re
sources on campus. The editorial stressed 
a very important point in that students 
should always talk with someone when 
they have a problem.
As the editorial said, Human beings 
rely on one another for support and 
understanding and there is nothing 
wrong with asking someone to listen. 
This is absolutely the best advice that 
one could possibly give.
There is nothing wrong in going to 
others for help. The only problem is that 
in a place like CMU, the pressure to 
compete and be at the top is so great, 
that it is often difficult to go to friends 
and acquaintances for help.
As friends, we should always be look
ing out for one another. It is very easy for 
us not to notice that one of our good 
friends is having problems or that he or 
she is acting differently. It is even easier 
to ignore these changes in our friends. 
This, however, is something that we can 
never do. In a crisis situation, it is un
likely that a person will do anything
Editor:
The Executive Com
mittee of Student Sen
ate wishes to express 
its condolences to the 
brothers and associ
ates of Theta Xi upon the death of their 
associate brother, Ian Gardner. 
ExComm recognizes Ians service to the 
campus community as a respected mem
ber of both the Escort Service and the 
Emergency Medical Service, and we rec
ognize that the loss is not merely a loss 
to Theta Xi but to Carnegie Mellon as a 
whole.
Greg Haverkamp 
Chair, Student Senate
Yamam Fadl
Chair, Academic Affairs Committee 
Burt Holzman
Chair, Campus Affairs Committee
Shawn C. Knight
Chair, Public Relations Committee
Ann Kopchik
Chair, Human Resources
Committee
Dave Martin
Chair, Funding and Recognition 
CommitteeFirst Lady poses national threat
Christian M. Restifo
Hes running down the hall, knowing 
that no matter how fast he runs, he cant 
get away from it. The walls twist and 
distort themselves into weird geometric 
shapes. The lights flicker on and off, 
giving all motion that snapshot effect 
you get from strobe lights. It comes closer.
He turns a comer and sees a door. 
There, he thinks, is my way out. All I 
have to do is make it there, and Ill be 
safe. But no matter how hard he tries, 
no matter how fast he runs, the door 
doesnt come closer. As the beast ap
proaches, he can hear the scraping of its 
hideous, blood-drenched claws on the 
floor. He turns around, shaking with 
fright, determined to see what it is that 
hunts him.
Greeting him is the broad smile of 
Hillary Rodham Clinton.
At this point, Rush Limbaugh wakes 
up, screaming and drenched in sweat. 
At least thats how I imagine it. Actu
ally, I imagine a few million men and 
women doing the same. Yes, the time of 
a First Lady who does something big has 
come. For some, its a new era for the job. 
For others, its the beginning of the pe
riod in time that will be known to our 
grandchildren as The Year the Femi
nists Began Destroying the Moral Fabric 
of Western Civilization.
Please see ROLE, pae 7

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 January 19937
Choosing the dreaded science elective
Abby Schiff
Something that everyone at Carnegie 
Mellon is justified in complaining about is 
the requirement that we take a certain 
number of courses outside our home col
lege. Nobody really knows how this got 
started. It certainly wasnt designed for 
the sole purpose of enrichment or well
roundedness, since these values are usu
ally frowned upon here.
I think it all began when someone sug
gested that everyone complete a writing 
requirement, for the purpose of employ
ment letters and corporate memos and the 
tiresome business of written communica
tion in general. At this point the engineers 
and scientists got mad and pointed out 
that if they had to suffer through writing, 
then by golly humanities students should 
have to take a class in Soil Mechanics. 
Finally, the two parties grudgingly reached 
a compromise consisting of a two-semes ter science requirementmainly because 
they both needed sleep and didnt want to 
sit around arguing for days on end.
So which science class should I take? a 
happy-go-lucky H&SS sophomore might 
inquire.. Well, the first thing I would sug
gest in this situation is to regard such a 
student with suspicion; there are no happygo-lucky CMU students left by the time 
sophomore year rolls around. Send this 
impostor over to Financial Aid until he 
shapes up and lets get on with the impor
tant business of choosing a science elec
tive.
Perhaps past experience will provide us
with a clue. I took loads of science classes 
in high school, which may explain the 
nightmares Ive been having ever since. 
The administrators at the school thought 
that forcing hapless teenagers to learn 
about science would help us to expand our 
minds. Either that or they actually thought 
a great majority of us would need to know 
exactly how mitosis works in order to lead 
fulfilling lives or at least become respect
able taxpaying citizens. Terrifying weekly 
laboratory exercises, designed to improve 
our scientific aptitude even further, only 
worsened the situation. They made gym 
class seem fun by comparison, which was
tion by conducting experiments as though 
we were toddlers and the Bunsen burners 
and volatile chemicals were nothing more 
than a glorified Play-Doh Fun Factory. 
The only people who actually paid any 
attention in chemistry were those stu
dents who saw the potential for a reward
ing and high-paying career in the field. 
Unfortunately for them, our teacher never 
did teach us how to make LSD or plastic 
explosives. I emerged from the experience 
secure in the knowledge that if you con
nect enough Cs, H's, and Os together in 
the shape of a tomato, you get something 
really important. Really.
Newton's hypothesis that an object in motion 
tends to stay in motion helps us explain some 
of the universes more mysterious phenomena, 
such as Macaulay Culkin's career.
probably no accident.
Biology was definitely the scariest. We 
had to find out our blood types through the 
complex scientific method of pricking our 
index fingers with a barbed pin, letting the 
blood dribble out onto specially treated 
glass slides, and passing out. This doesnt 
necessarily mean that the exercise failed 
to enrich our scientific aptitude. I, for one, 
wont soon forget my first glimpse of a 
panicked Assistantus Principalius speci
men asking us kids lying sprawled on the 
floor of the classroom if any of our parents 
were lawyers.
Chemistry wasnt much fun either, but 
at least the labs didnt involve in-depth 
examination of bodily fluids that most 
people, or at least those of us with weak 
stomachs, would just as soon not know 
about. Instead, we risked severe mutilaPhysics was my favorite science, mainly 
because the labs did not involve fetal pigs, 
formaldehyde, or noxious gases (so long as 
the crusty old substitute gym teacher 
stayed a good distance away from the 
room.) Physics tells us that if you let go of 
an object in mid-air  say, a valuable 
antique vaseit will fall to the earth with 
a thundering crash. Physics doesnt go 
into how you explain to the insurance 
adjuster that you used a Ming vase to 
prove something that any moron on the 
street already knows. Yet many of the 
fundamental rules of science are known to 
us today because physicists were persis
tent in their search for knowledge even 
when they couldnt afford insurance poli
cies. Boyles Law, for instance, tells us 
that a watched pot never boyles. And 
Newtons hypothesis that an object in
motion tends to stay in motion helps us 
explain some of the universes more mys
terious phenomena, such as Macaulay 
Culkins career.
The only other science classes I dared 
tako after surviving the previous throe 
were geology and nutritional chomistry. 
In geology, we learned that if you sit 
around listening to someono discussing 
rocks for more than 10 minutes, you will 
probably fall asleep. Nutritional chemis
try was much more interesting, mainly 
because the teacher was a health food 
enthusiast whose plan for healthy living 
involved choking down vitamin pills the 
size of horse tranquilizers several times a 
day. He told us that large doses of vita
mins would slow aging, prevent cancer, 
and improve our sex lives measurably. He 
also insisted that there was a conspiracy 
to keep this information from the general 
public, one involving the American Medi
cal Association, the CIA, and possibly 
Florence Henderson. Nutritional chemis
try didnt make much sense, but it sure 
was entertaining.
All this brings us no closer to the funda
mental question at hand, which is how to 
fulfill the H&SS science requirement with
out years of remedial tutoring. Theres no 
way around it, and I suppose the technical 
majors met their side of the bargain fresh
man year when they suffered through 
thousands of pages on the subject of lit
eracy, or alternately, bulimia. Come to 
think of it, maybe science courses arent 
all that bad. If I could only remomber 
which vitamins Im supposed to tako for... 
er, extending my life span, this scientific 
stuff just might prove worthwhile.
Abby Scliiff is a sophomore in H&SS 
who never won a prize in the science fairs 
of her youth.Role of First Lady evolving dramatically
Continued from ROLE, page 6
Personally, I dont see what the 
big hoopla is. During the cam
paign, Clintons team jokingly 
adopted a vote for one, get one 
free attitude. That is, until people 
got a little uncomfortable with 
the idea of, God forbid, the 
Presidents wife advising him. 
With the campaign over, how
ever, and the need to tone down 
her image gone, Im glad Hillarys 
going to get involved in the gov
ernment.
A few conservatives, though, 
are afraid. Whos going to wield 
the power of the Presidency, Bill 
Clinton or her? Who will really 
decide policy? Just how much in
fluence will the Presidents wife 
have? The answer is, who cares? 
Clinton is the President, and all 
authority for executive decisions 
rest with him. Likewise, so does 
the responsibility.
All these unfounded worries 
arise from the fact that Hillary 
Clinton doesnt fit the mold that 
people demand of the Presidents
wife. She isnt the homemaker 
who takes on her own special 
social cause. She doesnt appear 
to be the person who doesnt 
really get involved in politics.
Face it, Hillary Clinton is scar
ing people. Shes taking on 
health care, an area she dealt 
with when she worked with 
the Childrens Defense Fund. 
Wow, something Clinton pushed 
during his campaign. Imagine 
that!
At this point, a certain num
ber of people are going to start 
accusing me of several things. 
Theyre going to call me and all 
those who support Hillary 
Clinton a bunch of feminists. 
Well, Im not one  not by a 
longshot.
Theyre also going to accuse 
me of sayingthatthe job of home
maker is not a noble one and 
that Im arguing against 
womens nature. Nothing could 
be further from the truth. I think 
Barbara Bush was a great First 
Lady. She did what she wanted.
Hillary Clinton should be given 
the same opportunity.
No doubt, there are those who 
believe she should have nothing 
to do with national policy, foreign 
affairs, etc. The fact of the mat
ter, however, remains that 
Clinton can consult with whom
ever he chooses. If he wishes to 
obtain his wifes opinion on the
that one, Bill. I have to check the 
alignment of the stars for an an
swer.
One good thing that has come 
of this debate is the revival of 
interest in the role of First Lady. 
In just about every story covering 
this issue, you read something 
about Woodrow Wilsons wife, 
who handled a great amount of
At least Hillary, a lawyer with a good 
amount of experience, isn't saying, 
Let me get back to you on that one, 
Bill. I have to check the alignment of 
the stars for an answer. 
Israeli deportation, so be it. As 
long as he gives it as much cre
dence as advice from other advi
sors and experts, he is merely 
examining different viewpoints. 
At least Hillary, a lawyer with a 
good amount of experience, isnt 
saying, Let me get back to you on
work after his stroke. You also 
learn about other famous First 
Ladies. In short, it becomes very 
evident that they have always 
had influence on their husbands.
By looking at the structure of 
their relationship, one may dis
cover that Clinton will still be the
A PERSONS
OPINION
Each semester, Carnegie Chanakya Damarla
Mellon students trek over to 
the bookstore to purchase 
books. The rising cost of these 
textbooks can be a strain on 
many students'budgets. How 
much did you spend on 
books this semester, and 
how do you feel about it?
Freshman
Electrical Engineering
I spent about $250. I think 
the prices are really ridiculous; 
one book cost $80.
Teresa Leonardo
Freshman
Biology
I spent around $100, and that 
was fine. I was surprised it was 
that little.
Stanley Wong
Freshman
Physics
I spent about $150.1 bought 
a lot of used books from other 
people, because they tend to sell 
it cheaper than the bookstore.
Jennifer Urso/Tartan Photo Editor 
Cesar Sanchez/Contributing Editor
Jared Stein 
Sophomore 
Drama
I havent spent a dime on 
books this semester because I 
just dont care about school. 
Carnegie Mellon is ridiculous.
Parking* University Center  Greeks  Student Involvment  Student Senate  Athletic Facilities  Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health  Banking  Politics  Funding  Football 
Field  Student Affairs  Constitution  Construction  Overcrowding  Contras  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Gymnasium  Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Exercise
Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Woody Allen  The Muppets  Mail  Manure  Advertising  Disco
WRCT  Computers  Classified Research  DC-10s  Howdy's Volume 
ce  Environment  Hostages  Recycling  Congress  Middle East 
ag  Woody Allen  Funding  Student Affairs  Mayor  Construction 
ig Service  Environment  Recycling  Congress  Club Sports 
 omedy  Woody Allen  Funding  Student Affairs  Construction
* Overcrowding  Housing  Racial Issues  Sororities  Charities  Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Congress  Middle East  Gay Rights  Weather  Advising  Sex  Geeks
* Alcohol  Drugs  Blacks  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Television  Construction  Track Field  OverWoody Allen  The Muppets  Mail  Manure  Advertising  Disco  Crime 
' All-Nighters  Grant's Sex Life  Ishtar II  Hair  Mousse  Human Relations  SEI  Presidential Search  WRCT  Computers  Classified Research  DC-10s  Howdy's-Volume  Bills 
jair  Funding * Student Affairs  Construction * Overcrowding  Housing * Sororities * Music ? Mighty Mouse  Comedy * Woody Allen * The Muppets * Mail * Manure * Advertising
* Congress  Middle East  Weather  Advising  Sex  Geeks  All
* Crime  All-Nighters  Grant's Sex Life  Ishtar II  Hair  Mousse^
* Bill's Hair  Funding  Student Affairs  Construction  Overcrow
* Weather  Advising  Sex  Geeks  Alcohol  Gay Rights  Drugs 
* Track Field  Overcrowding  Constitution  Activities Board 
Middle East  Weather  Advising  Crime  Sex  Geeks  Corruptio:
THE TARTAN
one calling the shots and signing 
the bills. When asked by a re
porter about arguments between 
the two, Clinton once said that he 
would say, Youre wrong, and 
Hillary would later say, I told 
you so. They have a respect for 
each other, and that respect 
shows that they can disagree and 
still do their jobs. I doubt Clinton 
will back off on a position he holds 
just to avoid a spat with his wife.
Hillary Rodham Clinton has 
received more bad press than she 
deserves. Shes been labeled as a 
radical feminist who will hold 
absolute control as the real 
President. As to the first accusa
tion, its a rather odd position 
held by insecure people. And as 
for the second, lets wait until 
shes elected to start calling her 
Ms. President.
Christian M. Restifo is a senior 
chemical major who thinks 
Hillary Clinton is OK, even if she 
did wear a really, really ugly hat 
to the Inauguration.
Cornoglo Mellon's Studont Nowspnpor 
Slnco 1906
Editor-In-Chief......Brondnn McFeoly
Managing Editor .Snmuol Groonflold 
Business Mgr..........Mlchnol Harris
News Editor..Kondrlck Korwln Chun 
Acting Forum Editor... Richard Quinn 
Sports Ed. ..Lubomlr W. KochnnskyJ
Features Editor........Laura Palnnkor
Diversions Editor...........Tina L. Urso
Calendar Editor..........Laura M'Clure
Magazine Editors..........Marnl Borek
Barbara Reyes 
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed.....Glen Hoffman
Art Editor..................Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor................Jennifer Urso
Acting Production Mgr. Katie Swango
Personnel Mgr..............Keegan Folk
Copy Manager.........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr...........Chad MDanlel
Asst. News Ed.............Frank Michels
Asst. Forum Ed.............Abby Schiff
Asst. Sports Ed.............Eric Strauss
Asst. Features Editor....AndrewSproule
Asst Art Editor..........  Edward Pak
Asst Production Mgr.........Derek Wahlla
Darkroom Manager.......Nathan Hauser
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Timothy Blass, Megan 
Dietz, Daniel Frey, D.A. Henderson, 
Ellen Hondrlckson, Mark HllJIor, Holdl 
Hoover, Aaron Jenkins, Doxter 
Kobayashl, Christian Restifo, M.K. 
Rodgers, Cosnr Sanchoz, Ignatius 
Sasmlto, Tara Soman
Senior Staff 
Bob Dixon, Mlko Shapiro
Staffwrlters 
Matt Adlor, Nlcolo Allon, Joff Baslsta, 
KrlstonBovorl(lgo,TrlnottoChnndlor, 
Bobblo Dofflomoyor, Dan Gallaghor, 
Andy Glondlnnlng, Erin Grunzko, 
Lauren Holnz, David Hunt, Jason Irwin, 
Josh Llndor, Both Macdonald, Chris 
Maplos, Declan MeCullagh, Truptl 
Patel, Paul Platosh, Kolly Sterling, 
Steph Stlno, Jason Togyor, Mlko 
Walker, Gary Wilson, Jason Wyso, 
Leslie Zubaty
Art
Andre Khromov
Comics
Matt Goldberg, Elliot C. Evans, Paolo 
Malabuyo,Jenifer Mulo, Elliott Schiff, 
Jon Slenk, Jen Thorson
Photo
Kevin Chen, Kerry Hagan, Reid Hecker
Darkroom 
Mac Mirchandanl, Gary Wilson
Production 
Susan Abdalla, Tony deFlglo, Shiv 
Dewan, Becky Elroy, Michael Gibson, 
Otis Greene, Alexandra Hector, 
Brockett Horne, Janice McClure
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Nathan Dohm, 
Madhav Ghanta, Yerln Kay, Lenna 
Kydes, Anne Lopez, Catherine Mar
quis, Tonya Rado, Ed Slavishak, Jon 
Stevenson
Business 
Olivia Raharja
Junior Staff 
Laura Bentrem, Andrea Franclonl, 
Jessica Fang, Graham Gibby, 
Marybeth Griffin, Karen Grunberg, 
Megan Gurgon, Cheryl Harris, Mike 
Hofsass, Jenny Hsleh, Hsin-Tzu Huang, 
Philip Joyce, Lesley Kay, Mike 
Keating, John Kunichlka, Ellen 
Lalumere, Thomas Lee, Sung Lee, 
Monica Leeke, Nina Liang, Ylng Uang, 
Jackie Maher, Tanya Maynlgo, Amy 
McGovern, J. Ralne Pickett, Astrid 
Rapp, Melissa Reaves, AJ. Robinson, 
Syd Rodriguez, Ben Shelton, Narls 
Slamwalla, Zong-JIng Shen, Jason 
Streltfield, Lisa Vltalbo, Annie Wang, 
Adrian Ylu
Tho Tartan Is liio student newspaper of Camoglo 
Mollon University. Itlsowooklyncwspoporpubllahcd by 
students during tho foil and spring scmostera, at no 
cost to members of tho University community. It Is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscrip
tions aro avallablo for tho semester or acodomlc year. 
Tho editorials appearing at tho beginning of tho opinion 
section are tho official opinion of Tho Torton editorial 
board. Columns and political cartoons aro tho opinions 
of Individual creators. Tho Tartan rosorves tho right to 
reject or condonso ony column or political cartoon. 
Lottors to tho Editor aro opinions of authors who ore 
usually, but not necossnrily, members of tho University 
community. A lottor Intended for publication must bo 
signed and Includo tho writer's address and phono 
number for verification. Names will bo withhold upon 
request. Tho Tarton requests that lottors bo no longor 
than 350 words. Tho Torton reserves the right to 
condonso or reject ony letter. Copyright  1993 by Tho 
Torton. Tho Tartan editorial board rosorves tho right to 
withhold from publication any copy It deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Sklbo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing oddress: Tho Tartan/Box 17/Camegie 
Mellon Unlvcr3lty/Plttsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded In part by your Activities Feo.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN PPl 0890-3107.
i

---------------------------------------------------

Telecommunications
in compliance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act,now has a
TEXT 
TELEPHONE
(for the hearing impaired) 
available for campus 
l and public use.
This telephone 
is located 
in UCC 108.
Text Telephone 
and this ad 
funded by the 
EEO/AA Office.
Hours of operation are 
from 8:30am - 5:00pm 
with assistance from the 
campus telephone 
operators.
For further information, 
please call 268-4980.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
W.
PRESS PASS
by Paul Platosh
Pair of freshmen lead swim team
Record-breaker wins UAA award while teammate leads rout of Bethany
Lemieux, 
Penguins face 
adversity 
again
It was quiet this weekend, like 
the calm before the storm. It 
seems like nothing of note really 
happened, except for an eerie 
hush, that spread slowly across 
the country, a reverent silence 
that I recognized was the same 
silence that people exhibit when 
theyre in a church, when words 
somehow seem irreverent and 
impotent. Some may have felt 
less of it, others more, but it was 
there. All eyes uneasily searched 
the horizon, in anticipation of the 
BIG day. January 31st. Super 
Bowl Sunday.
But in Pittsburgh, things were 
different. The Steelers have been 
eliminated, and I guess that loss 
has been stored on the shelf right 
beside the Pirates miserable 
1992 playoff defeat. However, a 
different kind of silent pall has 
settled over the Steel City. The 
city mourns because its number 
one son, Mario Lemieux, has 
cancer.
Yes, folks, dont kid yourselves. 
Hodgkins Disease is cancer of 
the lymph system. Mario is going 
to get radiation treatment, and 
let me tell you that any time free 
electrons with more energy than 
you could shake a stick at are set 
loose to party down into your 
body, its bad news. Sure, you 
might get the cancer to go into 
remission, but side effects are 
always lurking around the 
comer, kind of like a hangover.
Even if all of General Manager 
Craig Patricks horses and all of 
his men manage to put Mario 
back together again, it doesnt 
mean that he will be cured of the 
disease. It means that the cancer 
will go into remission, a kind of 
dormancy, but it could recur at 
any time.
Its time to look at the situa
tion realistically. They say Mario 
will recover, that his athletic 
sportsmanship will pull him 
through. I say Bull-ony. Pipe 
dream. What will pull him 
through is treatment and luck. 
The Penguins need to stop 
putting all their eggs in 
Lemieuxs overstuffed basket.
The team needs to play with the 
attitude that Mario may not 
return, that this situation is not 
simply a case of holding the 
fort until the cavalry arrives.
Mario is a key to the Penguins 
success. Deny that, and you live 
in Candyland. Sure, center Ron 
Francis can, and has, stepped up 
! to be counted on more offen
sively. His trademark two-way 
game becomes increasingly one
way. But Ron does not have 
Marios hands. Jaromir Jagr 
i does; too bad hes a snot-nosed 
punk who has little or no concept 
f what team leadership means. 
Hes quick, hes good, hes 
spoiled.
This Penguins team needs to 
have Francis and Jagr work 
Oore efficiently together. Francis 
Deeds to set up the plays while 
Jagr puts the puck in the net.
Ron has the ability to do that, 
but hell have to work harder 
than he ever did before. As for 
^agr, I think Rick Tocchet had 
the right solution: beat the kid 
wto the fetal position at least 
twice a day, and soon, youll have 
him eating right out of the palm 
fyour hand.
Paul Platosh is asophomore creatve and professional writing
major.
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon swim 
team capped a week which saw 
one of its members named UAA 
Athlete of the Week by sweeping 
a decisive victory over Bethany 
College on Saturday.
The mens team ran its record 
to 5-1 overall with a 79-54 win, 
while the womens team won its 
second dual meet in a row, 8479, 
to pull its record to 2-4 on the 
season.
Meanwhile, the UAA an
nounced that freshman Rebecca 
Fruehan was the winner of the 
Athlete of the Week award in the 
Swimming and Diving  Women 
category for the week of January 
11.
During that week, Fruehan set 
a CMU school record in the 200-
yard freestyle event with a time 
of 1:59.01, breaking the mark 
set by CMU alum Francesca 
Crannell in 1990. The time also 
set a Washington & Jefferson 
pool record. She was also a three
time winner against Hiram Col
lege, winning the 50-yard 
freestyle, the 100- yard butter
fly and swimming as part of the 
victorious 400- yard medley re
lay team.
[Being named Athlete of the 
Week] shows Ive accomplished 
something, Fruehan said. It 
shows all the pain and effort 
was worth it. All the hard work 
weve done [as a team] has paid 
off.
Shes been doing great, coach 
Jim Cutrone said. She came in 
oneofthetop swimmers in Penn
sylvania, but while she was a 
very strong swimmer, she was
technically weak. Shes worked 
real hard all season, and shes 
just been doing great.
Against Bethany, Fruehan 
broke another school record, in 
the 100 yard backstroke, finish
ing with a time ofl:03.65.Theold 
record of1:06.20 was set by CMU 
alum Leslie McGill in 1990. 
Fruehan also won the 200 yard 
individual medley in 2:23.40 and 
was part of the winning 200 yard 
medley relay team along with 
sophomores Caroline Kanet and 
Sarah Broadley and freshman 
Lynn Babyak.
The wins continued showing 
that the transition for Fruehan is 
not that difficult. As a freshman, 
the change was not too bad, she 
said. The program is very simi
lar to my high school, and I really 
like the team and the coach.
I actually started doing well
after our trip to Florida [a trainingsession over winter vacation]. 
That definitely put things in per
spective for me  that really 
helped. Im excited to see how I do 
at the UAA meet (February 11- 
13).
As for the meet with Bethany, 
Cutrone said the meet was not as 
close as the score seemed.
We totally dominated, he 
said. Bethany is a small school, 
but they like swimming us. We 
swam a lot of exhibition events, 
where we scored no points. It 
looks better, and its a courtesy to 
them. In a meet like this, you 
want to avoid running up the 
score.
Freshman mainstay Geoff 
Waller was the big winner for the 
men on the day, picking up three 
victories: the 200- yard (1:50.20) 
and 100 -yard freestyle (1:05.00)
events and the 100- yard back
stroke (0:59.80). Meanwhile, 
freshman Anuj Gupta set a per
sonal best time in the 100- yard 
backstroke, finishing third in 
1:05.70.
The other womens highlight, 
outside of Fruehans record, was 
freshman Holley Anstats first col
legiate win, a 2:21.03 perfor
mance in the 200- yard freestyle.
The team has one dual meet 
left, on Saturday, when the Tar
tans host the Slippery Rock Rock
ets at 1:00 p.m. Cutrone is satis
fied with the teams performance 
as the UAA meet approaches.
Were basically right where we 
should be, he said. Im pleased 
with the results.
After the Slippery Rock meet, 
the team will be off for two weeks 
before the UAA championshipsat 
Washington University.
Womens basketball team loses in overtime
Team drops heartbreaking contest
By GARY WILSON
Tartan Staffwriter
In what was probably the most exciting 
game of the season thus far, the womens 
basketball team fell in overtime to Wash
ington University 81-75. The loss was their 
third straight, after a five game winning 
streak. Head coach Gerri Seidl was im
pressed with the teams effort. I thought 
our kids played a really tough, hard-nosed 
game.
The contest opened with Tartans leading 
scorer junior Jeanine Megahan and sopho
more Meredith McKnight taking turns at 
scoring. Within the first five minutes of the 
game, CMU had built up a 12-4 lead. De
spite missing a number of shots, the team 
seemed to be in total control.
Halfway through the first half, Megahan 
appeared to be trying out for the Harlem 
Globetrotters as she pulled off an incred
ible play. There was a scramble on the floor 
before Megahan grabbed the ball while 
lying on her back. She then sat up and 
tossed the ball high over two defenders to a 
waiting McKnight who set up sophomore 
Jenny Gretz for the hoop.
Slowly, the Bears battled back and built 
up a 22-18 lead with nine minutes left in 
the half. Junior Chandra Buist took control 
of the game, scoring eight points in three 
minutes to give the lead back to CMU 28- 
22. Coming into the game, Buists season 
high for a game was six points.
We knew what she was capable of all 
along, said Seidl, Shes starting to come
around again. The Tartans finished the 
first half leading 37-31, thanks in part to 
shooting 52 percent from the field.
The second half remained close with 
Megahan and McKnight staying hot from 
the field. They scored seven of the first eight 
baskets for the Tartans. Senior team cap
tain Kelly Sterling picked off a stray pass 
and walked in alone to give CMU their 
largest lead of the game at nine.
The Bears then went on a 13-1 tear to 
take a 60-57 lead, thanks in part to a num
ber of Tartans turnovers and lack of re
bounding. This set up the last five minutes 
of play, an exciting see-saw battle.
The teams exchanged baskets four times 
before Gretz drove the ball upcourt and 
passed off to Megahan who was fouled on a 
shot attempt. Megahan knocked down both 
foul shot attempts to tie the score at 67.
With under one minute to play, Megahan 
stole the ball but missed a layup. Washing
ton missed a foul shot attempt, and Gretz 
was fouled grabbing the rebound. She con
verted two foul shots and CMU led 71-68 
with 26 seconds remaining.
Washingtons Stacy Leeds hit a three 
pointer with seven seconds left to tie the 
game. She was also fouled on the play but 
was unable to hit the game winning foul 
shot. The game went into overtime where 
the Bears pulled away with the victory 81 
75.
Seidl assessed the Tartans effort. At first, 
we were concentrating on their guards and 
the girls were executingreal well. They kept 
b/aO5a 5aa JFP1:G oOSa 33
Cesar Sanchez/Tartan Contributing Editor 
PaTanEsI P,?eESIs IO5 OhaTOSan ,/l5a sl sgaesc olEes5 ue sIa /O5s 5Et SOpa5iMens basketball team continues slide in UAA
Tartans clawed by Washington University Bears 76-62 for third straight league defeat
By GARY WILSON
Tartan Staffwriter
After getting off to their best start ever, 
the Carnegie Mellon mens basketball 
team has fallen on hard times. The team 
opened the season with a 9-1 record, but 
following the teams lost to Washington 
University on Friday night, they have 
lossed three straight. Washington de
feated the Tartans 76-62 in a game that 
was far closer than the score showed. 
According to coach Tony Wingen, Were 
not pushing any panic buttons. Were 
going to come back and were going to win 
some games.
Junior forward Derek Dragisich opened 
the scoring with a fifteen-footer. Shortly 
after that, Dragisich and Washingtons 
Brent Dalrymple were up for a rebound 
when Dalrymple hauled him down, slam
ming him to the floor. Tempers began to 
rise, setting the tempo for the rest of the 
game.
The Tartans seemed to gain control 
early as they slowly built up a nine- point 
lead. Washington had a short rally, scor
ing seven straight points. At 10:15, CMU 
once again took control with four differ
ent players scoring to increase the lead 
to 23-13.
Between the six and the two minute 
mark, CMU was held without a point, 
allowing the Bears to battle back and tie
the score by halftime.
We cant have those kinds of lapses, 
said Wingen, Thats something to im
prove on. We were the better team for 
thirty minutes. That was the difference 
in the game
Dragisich ended the first half with 12 
points and junior center Charlie 
Connors was a perfect three for three 
from the field for 6 points.
The CMU defense did their job by 
limiting Washingtons big gun, Charlie 
Borsheim, to two hoops on six attempts. 
The Tartans only committed three turn
overs in comparison to eleven by the 
Bears.
The second half proved to be less 
promising. Washington opened the scor
ing 19:07 in, and both teams exchanged 
five baskets. At 14:43, senior guard 
Todd Jenkins and junior forward Mike 
Hosni came down on a two-on-one. 
Jenkins made the perfect pass and 
Hosni finished to bring the Tartans 
within one at 39-38. However, this 
would be the closest CMU would get.
Coach Wingen commented on the play 
of Jenkins, one of the teams captains. 
The guy that has really given us everythingis Todd Jenkins. Hes been a leader 
on and off the court. He has done every
thing that we would hope he would do.
Missed opportunities soon began to 
haunt the CMU offense, and bit by bit,
the Bears began to pull away. It was 
ours for the takingwe just didnt take 
it, said Jenkins. We missed shots that 
we normally make. It really deflated us. 
At 12:03, Washingtons Gene Nolan 
personally took control and started sink
ing every shot he took. With five and one 
half minutes in the game, Nolan had 
helped the Bears take a commanding 18 
point lead. The Tartans kept up with 
Washington, slowly chipping away at 
the lead, but were unable to close the
gap.
Junior guard Rony Johns led the Tar
tans with 13 points on the night. Hosni 
pulled down five rebounds to lead the 
team. Connors summed up the teams 
effort. I dont think we were playing 
aggressive on defense. We didnt attack 
them enough.
The loss was the fourth for the Tar
tans, and they have all come in league 
play. While posting a 7-0 record outside 
the University Athletic Association, the 
team needs to win more when it counts.
It is not going to be easy in the UAA. 
According to Wingen, The UAA is a very 
balanced conference this year. Every 
game is a big game.
With the outstanding start, and now 
the recent setback, opinions on the play 
of this team are varied.
Senior co-captain Chris Benec gave 
his impressions. People think that were
playing better than expected, but we are not 
playing as well as we expected. We havent 
reached our potential. I believe all the guys 
believe that.
With the importance of winning every game, 
every advantage that the guys can get will 
help greatly. This is where crowd support at 
home games could come into play. Although 
fan support is increasing, the players would 
appreciate seeing more people come out for 
their games.
Co-captain Todd Jenkins appreciates a lot 
of fans in Skibo gym. I like playing in front of 
a crowd. I understand that everyone has work 
to do, but its only two hours, and were fun to 
watch play.
Wingen said that at the last two home 
games we have had good crowds. They were 
real vocal and rowdy. That helps you as a 
player, as an athlete, as a coach. The more 
motivated we are, the better we play. 
Increased fan support could possibly be the 
one element needed to assure the success of 
the team.
Come out to the mens next game this 
Wednesday at 7:30 pm when the Tartans take 
on the Presidents of Washington and Jefferson 
College.
When these two teams met earlier in No
vember the Tartans pulled out a last second 
66-64 victory.
Both mens and womens games against the 
University of Chicago yesterday took place 
too late to appear in this issue.

---------------------------------------------------

JOIN US IN THE FUTURE
Tomorrows 
technology today.
If urn waul in Ple Inn the lullin' of 
Icchnoloft' holds, come la K-Svsiems.
The projects we're working on right now 
ill chaii}>t* entire induslries tomorrow.
To net a head slart on the lullin', talk 10 
your placement advisor or see our, lincanipus recruiler.
Information Session,
February l6lh.
On-Campus Interviews,
February 17th.
 E-SYSTEMS
The science of systems^
Kqiiiil Opportunity l-mployer
Rit Your
Ideas To
WorkAt
Huiajes
Netti-ork
SysteinsS
S<
Campus Intel
diedule your 
view Today!
Hughes Network Systems (HNS) is 
a global leader in satellite and digital 
technologies, supplying nearly 70% of 
the domestic and international mar
kets for private, interactive Ku-band 
and C-band satellite networks. HNS 
designs, manufactures, and installs 
advanced networking solutions for 
businesses and governments world
wide and is credited with many of the 
multiprotocol network technologies 
in use today.
So bring us your best ideas along 
with a sound academic record in 
Computer Science, Communica
tions Engineering, or Electrical 
Engineering. We have outstanding 
career opportunities for individuals 
interested in:
 Real-time microprocessor soft
ware design and development
 Minicomputer database/software 
engineering
 Software quality assurance testing
 Networking theory and 
engineering
 Digital logic design
 Analog circuit design
 Digital signal processing
Well put you to work in an environ
ment that welcomes ingenuity, and 
offers the opportunity you need for 
rapid advancement. Whats more, 
youll have your choice of two work 
locations, both offering lifestyles as 
exciting as your workstvles.
Hughes Network Systems headquar
ters is located in Germantown, Mary
land, a suburb ofWashington, D.C. 
Youll be close to the outstanding 
educational, historical and cultural 
attractions that have made the nations 
capital famous. In our San Diego 
office, youll find yourself surrounded 
by the Pacific beauty that has earned 
San Diego the reputation as one of 
Americas most livable locations. The 
choice is yours. Two fantastic loca
tions  one outstanding career. 
Hughes Network Systems will be 
interviewing on-campus on March 
16  sign up in the Career Center 
February 1-3 for consideration.
If you are unable to meet with us, 
please write to us at:
Hughes Network Systems, Inc.
Attn: Mark Balzer 
11717 Exploration Lane 
Germantown, MD 20876 
An equal opportunity employer.
HUGHES
NETWORK SYSTEMS
Subsidiary of 
Hughes Aircraft Company
The Computer Science 
Retake 
for 15-12x
will be offered 
January 30 at 9:00am
To sign up, contact Becky Clark 
3503 Wean Hall 268-6737

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 January 199311
Indoor track breaks ice at 
Robert Morris invitational
: By ERIC STRAUSS
| Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon indoor 
track team warmed up the Ice! breaker Invitational at Robert 
Morris College, their first meet of 
the season. Because early invita
tional meets stress individual 
| competition, no team scores were 
kept, but mens coach Gary 
iMeckley said the mens team 
I probably would have come in sec! ond to Ohios Youngstown State.
Weve basically only practiced 
for a week or so, Meckley said. 
Against mostly Division I 
I schools, I thought we did well. 
We made some mistakes which 
I cost us, but overall, our perfor
mance was very good. Of all the 
teams there, Youngstown State
was the only team that probably 
would have beaten us.
No men picked up individual 
wins, but six members of the team 
posted top three finishes.
A pair of sophomores, Kevin 
Keir and Phil Joyce, finished sec
ond and third respectively in the 
35-pound weight throw, while 
four track runners took second 
place finishes: junior Derron 
Haley (55-meter hurdles); junior 
Jarrod Siket (400-meter run); 
senior Sean McDowell (800- 
meter run); and freshman Mike 
Ray (1,500-meter run).
Meanwhile, the womens per
formance was headlined by fresh
man Missy Baustert, who set a 
school record of 2:25.6 with her 
third place finish in the 800 meter 
run. The other top three finishers
Women lose to Bears
WOMEN, from page 9
changing things up and we had 
to change to adjust. A lot of the 
problem is inexperience. They 
did adjust, which is good. We 
are seeing growth in our team. 
Were are definitely growing.
The Tartans dominated the 
majority of the game, but 
couldnt pull out a victory in the 
end.
They were better in rebound
ing (50-40), field goal shooting 
(43% -42%), and free throw 
shooting (83%47%).
McKnight led the team with 
23 points. She has been the 
player to watch recently, scor
ing 118 points (19.7 points per 
game) in the last six games. 
McKnight also leads the team 
in rebounds, averaging 11 a 
game.
Earlier in the week, the Tar
tans dropped a 56-44 decision 
at Grove City in a non-league 
match. Gretz and McKnight led 
the Tartans with 15 and 14 
points, respectively.
The Tartans looked to reverse 
ttheir fortunes on Sunday at 
the University of Chicago, but 
the game was too late for re
sults to appear in this issue.
Look for all the late results in 
next weeks issue of The Tar
tan, which is coming out Febru
ary 1.
The women will next travel to 
upstate New York to take on 
the University of Rochester 
Yellowjackets on Friday, before 
headingnortheast to Massachu
setts to tangle with the Judges 
of Brandeis University on Sun
day.
Reid Hecker/ Tartan PhotographerAnother two points..
Junior ,aesaT fIOT/Ea fleelT5 nTEha5 past sgl naraenaT5 rlT sgl 
points ue a Ta,aes jYY pOs,IAoi
were juniors Aliza Hildebrand, 
who finished second in the 3,000- 
meter run, and Ersula Cosby, 
second in the triple jump.
We had some very good perfor
mances, especially Missys, coach 
Dario Donatelli said. I was very 
surprised and pleased with Aliza 
and Missys performance. Other 
performances were a sign of 
where we have to go from here. 
We got offto a good start with the 
meet, and we have six to go, but 
we know what we hope to do.
The Tartans run again this Sat
urday atRobert Morris. All ofthe 
teams meets this year will be 
held at the Robert Morris cam
pus. This is due in large part to 
the fact that there is no indoor 
track facilities at Carnegie Mellon 
University.
Jennifer Urso/Tartan Photo EditorWild, wet, and winning again ...
'Ia fOTeaSEa Pa//le jeEhaT5Esc 5gEp saOp u5 r/cEeS slgOTn5 sIa jYY ,IOpoEle5IEo5 ue 0avTAOTci
Club sports gear up for spring action
By JOSH LINDER
Tartan Staffwriter
Fencing
(x8672)
The fencing club has just be
gun practicing for the spring 
season. Limited by the athletic 
department to one home meet 
per semester, the club will be 
away a number of times this sea
son. They regularly practice ev
ery Sunday at 12:30 pm and ev
ery Tuesday at 6:30 pm. The first 
meet is scheduled for Saturday, 
January 30, at the Northway 
Mall, then the club will travel to 
the University of Buffalo on the 
weekend of F ebruary 6. Thehighlight of the fencing season, how
ever, will come on February 27, 
when CMU will host a fencing 
team open. Unlike the last tour
nament that was held in the 
Thistle Gym, the tournament 
hopes to see more than 80 people 
attend from 13 colleges and local 
high schools. The open will have 
everyone from beginners to pro
fessionals. Anyone is welcome to 
contact the club, and they offer 
lessons to beginners.
Baseball  Joe Mauro 
(x5344), Satoru Guch 
Yamaguchi (x5434)
The baseball club, hoping to 
soon become a varsity team, will 
be hosting yet another exciting 
season. The club will be starting 
practices shortly so all of the 
scheduled games can be played. 
Home games will be played at 
Forbes Field. Anyone is welcome 
to come out for the team, and 
one-time pitchers are especially 
encouraged to try to get their old 
arm into shape.
Hockey  Mike Gallin (683- 
7465), Tom Sullivan (682-5627)
The hockey club has already 
begun its second season, and is 
in full swing. The practices are 
held every Tuesday at the Nevil 
Ice Rink on the South Side, and 
the games are played at Golden 
Mile in Monroeville. On Febru
ary 5, the club will be hosting the 
University of Pittsburgh (4 pm at 
Golden Mile) for yet another wild
match. On the following week
end, the club will face Allegheny 
on Saturday (4 pm at GoldenMile) 
Randy Bruno and then Penn State West on 
Sunday at 8 pm. Anyone is still 
welcome to join the club, and the 
season runs through the end of 
February.
Mens Lacrosse  Bayard 
Johnson (421-8629), Danielle 
Proctor (x4890).
The mens lacrosse team will 
start their season March 6 with a 
home game vs. Washington and 
Jefferson College. The season 
runs until mid-May when CMU 
hoststheall-stargame. Theteam 
practices every Friday night at 
8:30 pm at the GSIA Simon Audi
torium and Skibo gymnasium.
Womens Lacrosse
Thomasina Choi (x5627), 
Danielle Proctor (x4890).
The womens lacrosse club, 
which begins its season in early 
April, is looking for players. Any
one is encouraged to join, with all 
ability levels. The club has equip
ment and time to train new play
ers, and help out the old. Prac
tices, which will be held on Sun
days, will begin when the tem
perature becomes slightly 
warmer. The tourneys will see 
CMU face such schools as Vir
ginia, Pitt, and others, and CMU
will be playing in one of Pitts 
tournaments. If you are inter
ested, please call Tomasina.
Rugby  Bill Lucier (x4652)
The Rugby team season starts 
on February 27 at Juniata Col
lege. First team practice will be 
on February 13 at 1 pm by The 
Clock. The team will be compet
ing in the Blood Tournament at 
Pitt-Johnstown this season, and 
also at Alleghony Colloge
Mens Ultimate Frisbee  
Albert Robertson (x4118)
The mens club, ready for their 
spring season, is practicing every 
Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, 
and Sunday to get in shape for 
their upcoming matches. On Feb
ruary 6, they will be in Cincin
nati at a tourney which will high
light teams that they will not see 
later in the season. The United 
States is divided into five re
gions.
Penn State, University of 
Pennsylvania, Haverford, East 
Carolina, Navy, Princeton, UNCCharlotte, Lafayette, and 
Rutgers are all CMUs counter
parts.
The season runs through a 
week after classes ond, and al
though new players are discour
aged from coming onto the toam 
in the spring, anyono is wolcomo 
to try out.
Womons Ultimate Frisbee
 Jean Camp (363-0761), 
Phoebe Sengers (363-9356).
The spring schedule will be 
decided on this week. Practices 
will be on Sundays on the 1M 
field, and twice during the week.
WE NEED SPORTS 
WRITERS :mt,
CALL LOUIE, ERIC  
OR KEEGAN AT
X2111
Hockey club splits two games
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon Ice 
Hockey Club split a pair of exhi
bition games to open the second 
half of their season, falling to 
Duquesne University, 4-3, in 
overtime and then coming back 
cruise past Community Col*ege of Allegheny County 
(CCAC), 12-4.
The Duquesne contest showed 
a little rust on the Tartans 
states, as they held a one-goal 
kad three times, eventually lostog each one.
We were a little rusty, coach 
ave Collins said. We played a 
good game but got tired and out
of playing shape late in the game. 
That took a big toll.
Sophomore defenseman Greg 
Jessop, in his first game back 
after breaking his thumb in the 
teams opening game, scored one 
goal, while graduate student 
Dave Umland and freshman 
Roger Maddalena had the other 
two goals. Scott Berry minded 
the net and took the loss.
In the CCAC game, the team 
turned everything around. 
Umland scored an incredible 
seven goals as the squads first 
line tallied all 12 goals.
Berry, playing on left wing, 
racked up a hat trick of his own 
with four goals, and graduate stu
dent Scott Sarbacker had the
other tally.
The club is now 2-2 in exhibi
tion games, and opens the sec
ond half ofits West Penn College 
Hockey Association season on 
Saturday against the Allegheny 
College team at the Meadville 
Ice Arena.
The team follows that with a 
game at Kirk Nevin Arena in 
Greensburg against Indiana 
University ofPennsylvania, then 
hosts the University of Pitts
burgh, Allegheny College, and 
Penn State West.
The team then returns to the 
road, taking on West Virginia 
University in Morgantown be
fore finishing the regular season 
hosting Slippery Rock.
what it takes
After your education comes action. As a new grad you're 
out to change the world. At Mentor Graphics, you can. As 
the pacesetter in Electronic Design Automation, we've got 
what it takes to give the brightest college grads outstan
ding opportunities to utilize their talents to the fullest.?
T
?
we've
got
it*
BSEE/CSand
MSEE/CSCandidates
We have continuing openings for 
Software Development 
Engineers, who play a leading 
role In the design, development, 
specification and maintenance of 
a wide variety of applications for 
EDA tools. Projects utilize C and 
C++ and may involve schematic 
entry, digital and analog circuit 
simulation, fault and timing sim
ulation and physical layout of 
software. Candidates should 
have UNIX, HP, Sun and DEC 
experience. If you've got what it 
takes, we're up to the challenge.
We also have openings in our 1C 
Technology Center in Tokyo, 
lapan for 1C Design Engineers.
COMPANYPRESENTATION
Monday, February 8 
7-9pm, Check the 
Placement Office 
for location
ON-CAMPUSINTERVIEWS
Tuesday, February 9
To schedule an Interview, contact 
your Career Planning and Place
ment Office. If you are unable to 
attend, send your resume to: 
Corporate Staffing, Dept. E-4, 
MentorGraphics Corporation, 
8005 SW Boeckman Road, 
Wilsonville, OR 97070-7777. An 
equal opportunity/affirmative 
action employer m/f/d/v

---------------------------------------------------

yTEED/MfS 
SI vvs
Vintage Clothing
RslTa mlAT5 
Plei d ROsi
12 Oipi d 5 oipi
f/l5an Jan5i
1405 1i fOT5le Rsi 
RlAsI REna 
bSIiG bY 15203 
bIlea 431-1712
SAVE 25%
ON ALL HAIRCARE, SKINCARE, 
NAIL AND MAKEUP PRODUCTS
LEWIS' Hair Salon
813 S. Aiken Avenue, Shadyside 
682-4063
We Carry:
Paul Mitchell  Aveda 
Nexxus  Matrix  Redken 
Sebastian  Tri  Image 
Goldwell  Sukesha 
Trucco Makeup  OPI Nail Polish 
Matrix Skincare
SALE JAN. 17th to FEB. 20th
TALENTED, 
T I VI Nd, ASPIRINO, FRIEND LY,
YOU CAN 
BENEFIT BOTH 
PERSONALLY 
AND
PROFESSIONALLY 
FROM A 
POSITION AS
AN...
DESIRING A JOB WHICH 
OFFERS FLEXIBLE HOURS 
AND THE OPPORTUNITY 
TO LEARN VALUABLE 
SKILLS?
Applications and information packets are available at the Housing Office, Skibo and Donner Desks.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 
FRIDAY, JAN. 29TH
St udenas Ss lixo r geoe2exsThCeM5J
THEN THIS IS JUST A WATCH.
Its time we set the record straight. Oracle created the 
worlds first commercially available relational data
base. Just as Seiko created the worlds first quartz watch 
without a battery.* Both remarkable feats. But our 
technology didnt stop with database software, any 
more than theirs stopped with telling the time.
Today, Oracle provides total systems solutions 
through database, tools, applications, and services. Our 
products run on more than 100 computer platforms and 
are currently offered in 92 countries around the world. 
Imagine applying your skills 
in advanced networking,
CASE, application develop
ment, office automation, 
development tools, multimedia, massively parallel 
technology, and more.
So when youre ready to transform your education 
into an exciting career, dont just settle for any software 
company - choose Oracle.
We are interested in individuals with technical 
degrees for positions in Software Development, Techni
cal Support, Consulting and Product Management.
Send your resume to Larry Lynn or Lindsay Quin
tero at Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 
659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94Q65. Phone (415)506- 
5060. Fax: (415) 506-1073. E-mail: lslynn@ us. oracle; com.
Oracle will be On Campus
January 28-29,1993
Contact the Placement Office for details.
Oracle is an equal opportu
nity employer and is proud 
of its workforce diversity.
ORACLE
Make your vision tomorrow's technology.s
Depicted, Seiko Sport Tech Advanced flight Computer  the world's first alarm chronograph that records elapsed time up to 31 days, 23 hours 59 minutes, 59 seconds. Orbital rule till 
dial Indicates relationship between height/velocity and period of revolution of a passing satellite.
NewsTalk 88.3WRCT???
Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
WRCT News at 5:00
< B
70
gOTQ n SP 
8 ^E SB
- 2
5 5.
cr 
c Cd
CJ* o 
h-. <tC/3ftoo
rt>
hS'
iti
p 
Rcn
X H
O 2 
o
o> 
p 
3 
OCD
$ P
i ELop ZT
a & 2 
o -
s*
Vo
i-tC/3
in
c
cr
O*
ST
rD
3
I>pC/Dao
3a
T/1**
rD
CDc/5( 3c/5
a.
-
3o
2,
ac/T
n
IS I
rD O- Rp ^ QTQ
n = rD 
% i-i 
1/3 C/5
GO
P3
CD
8

9?
2 h-  o oH*CD

CD
CD
CO
ro
CZ5
*0rD
o
<1rD
o
o
in
Htr
rD
^ p5 ET
5*3 a
t2-HT
WRCT Call-in Talk Shows, every day 5 to 6 PM!! Call and get your views and opinions on the air! Also listen to "The WRCT News Week in Review" 
Sundays at 4 PM, "The Lecture O' the Week" Sundays at 6 PM, "The Tartan on the Air" Mondays at 5:45 PM, and "The Carnegie Mellon Campus Report"
w/ Ed Delaney Fridays at 5:50 PM. (Schedule subject to occational changes) Funded by your Activities Fee_______________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 January 199313
SPORTS IN SEASON
BOWLING
Commissioner: 
puddy Feitt, x5371 
| Matches are rolled on the For
ward Lanes on Forward Avenue 
n Squirrel Hill, 422-5844 on Sat
urday mornings. Please pay all 
fees and report team scores to the 
commissioner.
pO-REC WATER POLO
Commissioners:
Mike Kappus, x5302 
Joanne Kievan, x5900 
Co-rec water polo was put on 
jiold for this year.
BACKGAMMON & BRIDGE
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Please play all matches as 
scheduled and report your scores 
to ;your commissioner or the IM 
bffice.
UPCOMING SPORTS
BASKETBALL
tammissioners:
Majors  Buddy Feitt, x5371 
intermediates  Dave Ekem, 
5354
IM News
Minors  Jim Saxon, x5482 
Women Only  Trish Williams, 
x5973
Entries for IM basketball were 
due last Thursday. There are a 
record 108 teams this year. A 
rules clinic was held last Wednes
day. Games begin on Tuesday. 
Check the IM bulletin board for 
team schedules.
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEY
BALL
Commissioner:
Dave Ward (421-3632)
Entries for faculty/grad volley
ball are due on Thursday. Games 
will be played on Sunday nights 
in the main gym starting Febru
ary 7. Check the IM bulletin board 
for team schedules.
FLOOR HOCKEY
Commissioners:
Majors  Dave Ekem, x5354 
Minors  Jim Saxon, x5482 
Entries for floor hockey are due 
on Thursday by 4:30 pm.
Practices will be held from Feb
ruary 1 through February 4 from 
7:00 pm to 10:00 pm.
Games are pick-up with your 
own equipment. There are no res
ervations.
PINOCHLE
Entries are due on February 4.
WRESTLING
Entries are due on February 
18.
WATER BASKETBALL
Entries are due on February 
18.
BUSINESS
The IM Department is still look
ing for officials for IM basketball 
and floor hockey.
To sign up, contact the Assis
tant IM Director, Mike 
Mastroianni at x2193 or x2214.
Organizations will now get five 
points for each IM Board meeting 
attended.
Trish Williams has been elected 
Womens President of the IM 
Board.
She is replacing Molly 
McDermott who graduated last 
semester.
The next IM Board Meeting 
will be on February 3 at 12:30 pm 
in the IM Office.
Compiled by 
ANDY GLENDINNING
Pitt Bulls begin fourth indoor lacrosse season
ByLUBOMIRKOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Sports Editor
Looking for something differ
ent to do on a Saturday night? 
How about an indoor lacrosse 
game at the Civic Arena.
ThePittsburgh Bulls have just 
begun their fourth season in the 
Major Indoor Lacrosse League 
(MILL).
There are three more home 
games scheduled for the season: 
against the Detroit Turbos on 
January 30; against the New 
York Saints on February 13; and 
against the Baltimore Thunder 
on February 27.
The Bulls have gotten off to an 
0-2 start with losses to the Buf
falo Bandits 17-10 and the New 
York Saints 11-10 in overtime.
The Detroit Turbos, reigning 
National Division champs, are 
in town this Saturday.
The Bulls are looking to avenge 
two losses sufferedlast season at 
the hands of the Turbos.
Both forwards Mark Gold and
Jeff Wills lead the team with 
three goals and throe assists for 
six points.
Gold was asked about the im
portance of the upcoming game 
against Detroit.
This may be our biggest game 
of the year. We need to dictate 
the nature of the game."
The Turbos will be lead by the 
Gait brothers, Paul and Gary , 
who have lead the MILL in goals, 
assists, and points for the past 
two seasons.
Since lacrosse is not as widely 
known as some other sports, a 
recent MILL press release listed 
some interesting facts:
Lacrosse is North Americas 
oldest sport, with origins dating 
before the 1400s.
Indoor lacrosse began in 
Canada, played on iceless ice 
rinks in the summer.
Lacrosse is currently enjoyed 
by over 750,000 people across 
the United States.
The average salary of players 
in the MILL is $250 a game.
Most players como from the rich 
collogo lacrosse programs in 
Maryland.
Carnegie Mellon has both 
mens and women's lacrosse club 
teams.
For moro information on join
ing please call Bayard Johnson 
at 421-8629 and x3771.
Danielle Proctoris manager of 
both the mens and womens 
teams. She can be reached at 
x4890.
You can also contact Thomasina 
Choi, x5927 or Astrid Rapp 422- 
1606 for the womens team.
For more information on the 
Pittsburgh Bulls and tickets call 
333-SEAT. Tickets are $16 and 
$10.25 and can also be purchased 
at the Civic Arena box office.
FREE CATALOG
of Government Books
Send for your copy today!
Free CatalogBox .moo
Wuhingcon DC 2001.1-7000
Basketball tournament benefits Pittsburgh Cancer Institute
By LUBOMIR KOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Sports Editor
On January 30, Carnegie Mellon Universitys 
chapter ofBetaTheta Pi social fraternity will be 
sponsoring a charity basketball tournament.
The event runs all day Saturday, beginning at 
10am in Skibo gymnasium All proceeds go to the 
Pittsburgh Cancer Institute in Oakland.
Five-person teams, split into two divisions, 
will compete in a double elimination tourna
ment. Entry fee is $15 per team, and there will 
be prizes for the winning team.
Sign up sheet is in the intramurals office. 
Deadline is Friday, January 29.
For more information, call Andy Helms at 
x5340. The tournament kicks off the start of IM 
basketball.
$3.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with coupon 
Pick-up only
$2.00 off
Any Large 
Gourmet Pizza
Pick-up or Delivery
$5.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with coupon 
Delivery or Pick-up
$1.50 off
Any Two 
Whole Hoagies
Delivery or Pick-up
$1.50 off
any Large Pizza
Delivery or Pick-up
$5.99 Large
Pepperoni Pizza
Delivery Only
Large Plain + 
1/2 Italian 
Hoagie 
& 2 Cokes
$9.95 plus tax 
Delivery
r
2 MedPizzas + 1 
topping on each 
for $10.50
plus tax
Delivery or Pick-up
Hawaiian Pizza
Special
$8.95 plus tax 
Delivery
l_
Buy one Pizza 
get the same size 
Pizza FREE
Toppings Extra 
Pick-up only
Sm White Pizza 
& Tossed Salad
Only $4.99
Delivery or Pick-up
Free Topping
on any large pizza 
Delivery or Pick-up
Free DeliveryFIZZ A OUTLET
687-9555
190 N. Craig St.
classified
ADOPTION
Adoption- Loving Mom (a school 
teacher), professional Dad yearn to share 
our lives with newborn. Family picnics, 
home baked cookies but most impor
tantly a warm and loving family await 
your infant. Expenses paid. Call Joan and 
Bob collect so we can talk. (212) 772- 
9254.
Pregnant? Infertile married couple 
wants to start a family through 
adoption. We will give the baby a loving 
start in life and can help you through this 
difficult time. Please call collect anytime. 
(412) 771-4532.
International Employment  Make 
money teaching English abroad. Japan 
and Taiwan. Many provide room & 
board + other benefits! Make $2,000- 
54,000+ per month. No previous training 
or teaching certificate required. For 
employment program call: (206) 632- 
1146 ext. J5236.
SERVICES
A humanist chaplain is now available
for non-theistic personalized weddings 
and other ceremonies, and for discus
sions. Phone: 781-7205.
Dissertation group, ongoing, to add 
members in October. To facilitate 
productivity and creativity, discuss the 
subjective aspects of this process.
Private, low-fee. For info, interview, call 
421-3715, Dr. Singh.
QN CAMPUS JOBS
Greeks fit Clubs: $1,000 an hour. Each 
member of your frat, sorority, team, 
club, etc. pitches in just one hour and 
your group can raise $1,000 in just a few 
days. Plus a chance to earn $1,000 for 
yourseifl No cost. No obligation. 1-800- 
932-0528.
COURSE INFO
Money for college! Scholarships and 
grants available. Free details. Write ESN2959 Berkshire Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 
15226. Or call (412)563-4104.
JRAVEL
Low student and faculty fares to 
international destinations. **Good fares 
within the USA**AYH and Eurorail 
passes*Experienced friendly service. 
Hours 9-5 Monday  Friday, 10 AMNoon Saturday. Convenient location: 
4608 Winthrop St. off South Craig St. 
Call Forum Travel 681-4099.
Spring Break '93 Blowout Sale! 100% 
guaranteed! Cancn, Jamaica, & Florida 
packages still available from America's 
student travel leader. Travel free 
organize a small group. Call STS <3> 800- 
648-4849.
Classified Policy
Rates
1-20 words.........$5 per week
21-50 words.......$8 per week
51-100 words.....$10 per week
 Classifieds must be paid by 
cash or check before the first 
scheduled run date.
 On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by 
journal transfer with a valid 
account number.
 Classifieds are not subject to 
discounts applicable to display 
ads.
 Classifieds reach a wide 
audience.
Please mention coupons upon ordering. 
Coupons not valid with any other offer.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

VWaV Iukpav 1horSt>M t\t>X1 SaTdrpki Sunpk^
s RE
I AM
3 AM
4 A*A
b A*
(o AM
f^ricolli
^<6+ Sw MdM
vj| -+VCka.irrvM 
wiA N/vdniUra/idtW Spc>6
on
7 am
& AM
lb AM
II AM
MOON
3 TM
S IE
Bin
W ih( Zmmi 
<t\\fi - nek.
U*fP'| fon GRss
W| \>\ftV(AS
Ao-nCt rbxt__________
Cwr?^
w/ 'pencil ^ J
(L\0^h^
QrAeV ** Cefl+vol 
w 1J mite*
*
?
non+rA^ifi6A*| 
noli>e ^ne^lt> 
OjnAioi\ ncarAs
 *&
* *
* * 
**
S^"\ivM / /
 *" ill
k1 Wflt h> be. A 
SubWitrito-e- W1
SkrrH 
jcaz .. blu
Tan^ liif i n +^ 
WPi wvH'
DJ (2^ ... gflyfyfo's
w
SW'M U'f, Sw^CwuV^ P*+6 
jg.zz..bl^Ya<!to
^obaWVc^A>^,ntul+vrt W/ peH v c>-
"[lie
pA^+t^ WiHi
T<U
ex peri wtrtta-lambientindWriiU
^oSeAifiw
-yiWaA'
rv\A NAsAP
Saul
Of cmmtt'fo "to:
Us-fcoer rvwulba^ 
J, wiT 'fW* 
SbZO Fofbes 
pi&bug^PA 
1C 2^>3
tWwfyfW\/y\M
l {Vffll foftQl'
yri'Vl'N'tXM'l 
^(xZ-Z-. blues
ol+ver
VVi* ,}<m 
fccW m***'*
('A'Q'T+A-^ ^luWf .W1-
6>iu-Als w i-Hi 'Peai. fce**"A
ja.-2.z-- blocs.  
. |-.ic> 
S-fc-O- wito'C V)<,5t>VT?flLiUoAH
el basa 
wi-H'i javj
* lO'.-bv 1 nt-erna-H oh a),
SH wl*
Con<,{-a*\b H6 inftyn^KimaJ
I. <J*Vll00L<iA YcW
'O erekUiin
Sluhnv| 1U w|
TUsHc'Rv**1
MW VJAV6
MI WKVj1?Hflwiiy* M ii {Y\*
Mvsi ooci 
fcnmjn byP 
1in>\ &-
cWiskwYYWUCA Show 
friOj A*Um* 
ovA
\jOJf i tfK's
(J/ounil Z^o 
w/ JftNj A<Ws
fh-t los^ h>H 
 +V gos
T5>* \%
V>p
'V
,
V' ^
or\ /^^~> *-, 
z-S^ ' r^C' > .
n y-A'O.
Pocbv 0rtotd 
w| iKi+evnEiiiftf
ivn^Y ndi
Klifh 'P<^rv 
-ex p i-er^urvivi-fzil 
am bi^JoT
lumVe 
Ac\A v^i^1
cvi<> ? ^
-teclono
87,I6 ^ &r'<:' 
'i r\ ios-hoal
mtUI
\,VjU. msu1u4
AA,
'R'5r(:sV. Ie'po35il5'l|+'s 
w>-H^ ^ UJ
blu-e^
Eftt Some pdSk 
w| SV&ve S.
f 0C^
pisewifcowckii oll'era.I fOcise.
V| S-teVi -Bv 'Roiik
V'iaq d M U*zz mg+al
lii-e An<j)e.
w/ fk"t ^ 0*1^7
g; c l< 6+i t s
fWiorv-j w tru1?. 
w\+V\
I \KvA.+i o^>
Volts^^^0w \-VVv
C-hiJl's
fun w/ 
aR. rocii, -eicp^A-Z-TU/fave <5 -t+ie.
weey^
5 PtA
InViiyvitws wiH> 
wlews K*oi tcVftflP
Tw WorUfc Ai 
i^iiWv jfcsrv'
Corrmui^etm's (_prner 
w| arr\ OHiers
7or,h'(s in Persp<tiv
1*0oc* Mi cole
g n i i ^ V\tw nr>ev) t- s 
wl[
Wide fK/ a
_r_________________ A
7 PM
 ?M
'Raiii'o for -ikiL
PfopU \^| E'iil 
nDiZ-eWiftin'h<5|
8m2Z Wlf^
Car41n ^fllph 
^T,T-  tlu^
ii>n\Wl<1in^ Rlrj-Hitu
Simno 
+ (>1106 +rdH 
4rib^l hcTK'6d'
V\>frr\A uy? ^us 
of si|\e w/VOt*
To'j ^Tow n w/
"D^ Uv'^^
4'<tho6 +r cmcc 
brta.Uo*A*
Cerultoun Spoon 
Vsi[ "TowrAy 
lolutt yr^hd 
&T'\____
WRxT N^wi VJ.<k\la V\fiW
9 PM
\Wi! imusici &6h'5n! 
loiuU banM
^linnijoty, (jknn^fliy
10 vmmm- kh'VU <A\ike QwMtrbcHC) I wt+^ ^wes+ huu.'S-e , . Y ,
I, ~ '""f l,. I ratnu MrtjZTTDSr w|M<hJMk11 yM fp,WW.rodL | e< pt L"r" pUiiil/Djter .MW, -Df^Mtfal 1
VJ^CT* ^e4u<,5't' [iffc  /2b>8 2&&5
Oil. X/TT- . 'D.^.y*,.
Vm Wi+th Wlii'ppir
stwhvc del Sdtfffc 
w|'6U(kAct\w'iim
r 4o Co Si 4 Beat
Spor4^ Ue
U \)k\Ue Ink 
wi+b luikliWi 
'^tUM'gjaiS wi
. . ravfc -tretWub
dM**-
hcu-'S-c , ,
11 of rtf-fal
|6iiinApVcrurylf
WI'H' EKi^"5
n yvvoiJi sV ^n 
o.l+dvnA.+i ^ "
/
(vVe+iilM6rpV'i c
/^^pW^xiA'+i^
Mct^l Mavk
Aptu wP.Wln k
^ock- r' 12 H
\p/]iu -ToM 
^ollinq fecic
Vb'ol 1C A(Gu^ "pr WjT^S :
UWiiiwS y^NwilSV6 WM^hJP 
^UvAirAtiL tnCulWfc wi'Ha ftfe
TUo kMre& wi'^ SDE
(!,rrv,Ccrner
IhL^kLMk ^ ^ ^ ^
v\2-tT fta- C/^rru-^ie 0\i\/W4'+1f
Lc+nye 6 4W 
l^LIDi,nt ^ ^
lo6<a b<uu( 9^, ljyt\miilo>\ Knvuliw/ nljl/vts
a+ feurmA^hA.ve- /
Sp^5:a? 1 ^>\A- '^.ocUes\eA'
6 1pm Wisl^il^irKV U^i^M'll
y31 @ iprw. Graniti*
%  'r w^ei4
W Q
\ y
-fUtte^ V7 (9 4^
?W^vt ac-tiri-HeS ($!? ^ SW-Hhu-S Scibjict Vo c^n^i wHWit s* sUy

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 87, Issue 14The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
A salute to those who give a hoot  volunteers!
Alpha Phi Omega pledges leadership, friendship, serviceSmart seniors find time 
to help out community
By BOB DIXON
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Sophomore chemical engineer Karen Yun found out about Alpha Phi Omega through a 
friend, and began meeting brothers of the national co-educational service fraternity in social 
situations. In the fall of1992 Yun pledged A Phi 0 because she wanted to help people both on 
and off campus. I joined A Phi 0 because it is a service fraternity, Yun said, I wanted to help 
other people than on campus  I wanted to help the community.
The fraternity Yun pledged is a national organization with three cardinal principles: 
leadership, friendship, and service. For brothers of A Phi 0, these principles are enacted 
specifically in four places, the four Cs: campus, community, country, and 
chapter. On campus, service projects include producing the CBook, operating the Book Exchange at the beginning of each 
semester, running the Airport Shuttle and Magic Bus at 
Thanksgiving and Spring Break, and manning conces
sion stands at football games and during Spring Carni
val. Community projects include activities with the Bra
dley Centera center for disadvantaged childrenthe 
Boy Scouts of America, and the United Way, and fund
raisers including the Ugliest Mug on Campus Contest.
Alpha Phi Omega services the campus and community in 
ways that go beyond weekly and seasonal activities. A 
bulletin board-sized calendar in the A Phi 0 office is covered 
with phrases like Service hours ... Donate prizes  VOL
UNTEER! ... Scout First Aid Meet ... WQEX [Alpha Phi 
Omega answers telephones for WQEX during fundraising 
drives].... KDS [A Phi O annually gives a scholarship in 
memory of Kent D. Shaffer, former group advisor noted 
for his extensive community service, to a CMU stu
dent not affiliated with A Phi 0 who exemplifies 
fraternity values].
Mixed in with community service reminders 
are notices demonstrating the friendship as
pect of the fraternity  birthday notices 
and social announcements. A lot of close 
friendships have come out of A Phi 0, 
said Connie Wai, senior industrial 
managementmajor. There are lots 
of fun people to do things with, 
said Jeff Brown (senior, SDS). I 
like to have an immediate effect on the 
community.
For computer science major Dale 
Newfield, who pledged the fraternity in 
the fall of1990, What A Phi 0 embodies 
and my ideas, ideals, and values are 
very identical.  These ideals began with 
Carnegie Mellons Kappa Chapter on 
April 29, 1929, four years after the 
first chapter (December 16, 1925) was founded at
Lafayette College in Easton, Pennsylvania. The fraternity was begun at Lafayette 
by Frank Reed Horton, a navy ensign looking for a way to maintain high standards
Please see ALPHA PHI OMEGA, page L3Center for University Outreach offers 30+ community service programs
By ELLEN HENDRICKSON
Tartan Contributing Editor
Many people naturally want to help those in need, but most of us feel like we 
cant make a difference by ourselves. Mortar Board Honor Society recently 
gave members of the campus community an excellent opportunity to band 
together for a good cause, and it will soon give us another chance to be 
of service.
In November, the members of Mortar Board put boxes 
in all the dorms and academic buildings and some 
administrative buildings for folks to fill with un
wanted clothing. The call for aid did not go unan
swered. The campus community collectively do
nated around 14 boxes of clothing. The turnout 
surprised us, said senior industrial manage
ment major and co-president of Mortar Board 
Matt Gile. We didnt expect so much." Thats 
enough clothes to fill about the same number of 
large recycling bins, and in a way these clothes 
will be recycled. Mortar Board is donating them to 
the Light of Life Rescue Mission, a homeless shel
ter in the North Side. Wo choso Light of Life 
because its nearby, and evoryone whos seen tl)e 
beggars in Oakland can rolute to homclessnoss, said 
president Meryom Tangoron, a sonior in industrial 
design. Mortar Board is pleased with the results. The 
people on campus are roally very genorous, said Mortar 
Board advisor Katie Stannard, assistant to tho Doan bf 
Student Affairs. It was a nice way to clean out your closet 
and donate to a good cause at the same time.
Mortar Board is an honor society for fourth year stu
dents, with tho first requirement for membership u QPA 
of 3.5 or higher. The group is Belf-dependont  it doesnt 
get funding from Student Senate or National Mortar 
Board. Unfortunately, with an honor society liko this, 
people think, I worked hard to get in. I dont have to do 
anything. Its an easy thing to put on a rtSsumfi, said 
Tangoren. We want to make it so that people will look forward 
to becoming a member, feel pride in being a member. People 
who maintain their grades should be recognized, and people 
willing to donate time to service should be further recognize^, 
said Soma Agarwal, vice president and a senior in computer 
science. Agarwal said, We would like to become a more social 
service organization. She and Gile agree that Mortar Board pro
vides its members a way to mingle with people in other colleges arjd 
disciplines. Mortar Board can make doing community service easier 
for the campus, said Agarwal.
Tangoren says that its Mortar Boards purpose to make community 
service easier for the campus to participate in, but its hard to get people 
involved when they dont know about the organization. A Phi 0 gets 
recognized for things it always does, such as the C-Book. Thats the koy 
to becoming well-known on campus, according to Tangoren. An organizaPleaso see MORTAR BOARD, page L3
By A J. ROBINSON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
I challenge a new generation of young 
Americans to a season of serviceto act 
on your idealism by helping troubled 
children, keeping company with those 
in need, reconnecting our torn commu
nities. There is so much to be done  
enough indeed for millions of others who 
are still young in spirit to give of them
selves in service, too, said President 
Bill Clinton in his inaugural address 
last Wednesday.
CMUs Center for Univer
sity Outreach has long been 
committed to sharing the 
universitys resources with 
the Pittsburgh community.
President RobertMehrabian 
created the center to act as a 
liaison between the univer8>ty community and local 
neighborhoods.
The center, headed by Dr.
Edwin Fenton, coordinates 
mre than 30 projects to that 
end. Most of the projects were initiated 
y CMU students, staff and faculty. 
Fenton says, The University is fully 
committed to these programs and to 
Provide 12,000 hours of tutoring a year
readings, attend a few meetings, keep a 
journal, and write a paper at the end of 
the semester, says project coordinator 
Harriet Schwartz, assistant to the Dean 
of Student Affairs. Whereas some pub
lic service projects have little training, 
the training for tutors is extensive. 
Therefore, no tutors are thrown into a 
situation that they cant handle and the 
experience is much more rewarding.
Another active project in the Center 
for University Outreach is the Role Mod
els program, founded by Elaine Atkinson, 
a secretary in the Psychology DepartThe University is fully committed 
to these program and to provide 
12,000 hours of active tutoring a 
year to the Pittsburgh area"
 Dr. Edwin Fenton, 
University Outreach
ment. This program is also designed to 
involve third through fifth graders but 
is centered, for the present, at Hill Dis
trict students. The goal of the project is 
to expose inner city kids to successful 
 the Pittsburgh area. The programs college students who provide positive 
Wrrently active offer a wide range of examples and inspiration to set high 
comtnunity-service activities. These goals for themselves. Education is a 
Projects provide an excellent opportu- means out of poverty, says Atkinson, 
nity to give something back to the com- This program isnt a pullout program 
rnunity, even if it is ours for just four where contact is made for a brief time.... 
*ears. Role Models maintain contact with the
The East End Project is a program children over the years and become imesigned to tutor third, fourth, and fifth portant contacts in the business world. 
Srade students one day a week, and An important difference from the East 
Squires only a two hour a week commit- End Project is that students who particient. Students may also earn six units pate as Role Models receive an hourly 
f credit if they do additional assigned wage but must be willing to commit to
attendingsessions Monday, Wednesday, 
and Friday afternoons. This program is 
made possible by contributions from 
CMU, the Pittsburgh Housing Author
ity, the Grable Foundation, the Henry 
C. Frick Educational Commission, and 
numerous private contributors.
There are also several programs geared 
toward area elementary and high school 
students in the fine arts. Architecture 
for Children invites third through eighth 
grade children to learn basic principles 
of design and architecture, particularly 
in urban settings. The Pre-College Art 
Program is an intensive stu
dio and lecture course aimed 
at area high school students. 
The Music Department offers 
a preparatory school in ad
vanced training for students 
as young as five years old, 
through lessons and courses.
Student groups may also 
participate in community ser
vice through a program called 
Partners in Service, organized 
by Schwartz. In the program, 
members of student groups invite fac
ulty, staff, and administration members 
to join them in a day-long project of their 
choice. Greeks may become involved 
within their own house or within the 
Panhellenic or Inter-fratemity Council. 
In the past, Greeks have been respon
sible for planning fund-raising ventures 
for causes such as Muscular Dystrophy, 
Multiple Sclerosis, and the Juvenile Dia
betes Foundation. Such popular events 
include Delta Gammas Anchor Clanker, 
Kappa Alpha Thetas Mr. Fraternity, 
Alpha Epsilon Pis Wingathon and the 
councils Greek Sing. For more informa
tion on community service, contact the 
Center for University Outreach at x7801 
or Harriet Schwartz at x2075.
:----------tig Brothers/Big Sisters 
interest, not enthusiasm
By JESSICA FANG
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
CMU is phasing out its current Big 
Brothers/Big Sisters program due to 
lack of funds from Student Senate. 
Senate isnt being unnecessarily per
nicious. However, membership has 
shrunk and it is difficult to justify 
funding when there is little student 
involvement. The membership of fif
teen dropped to ten, said Big Broth
ers/Big Sisters president Suzanne 
Bartlett, and most of those are gradu
ating.
As a result, the organization is now 
in the process of organizing a new 
program with Reizenstein Middle 
School. Students at Reizenstein will 
be able to come to CMU to spend about 
four hours a week with their Big (the 
programs lingo for a Big Brother or 
Sister) to get a feel for the college 
campus and to get a taste of what 
college life is really like. The applica
tion process is lengthy, and with good 
reason. Its important that the Bigs 
are screened carefully, consideringthe 
influence they can have on an impres
sionable adolescent. The basic require
ments for being a Big are that you be 
a college student, that you like chil
dren and that you have access to a car. 
(This, again, is as a result of a lack bf 
funds for transportation.)
Getting involved requires filling out 
an inquiry form with name, address, 
and other information. Additional 
papers are sent to the headquarters of 
the applicants state to check for a 
criminal record. The case worker as
signed will then take a look at where 
the potential Big lives and the types of 
people he or she lives with. Next comes
the interview, where the applicant is 
asked about his or her interests, so 
that the case worker can get a feel for 
compatibility with a little brother or 
sister.
All this takes time, since the case 
workers want to make sure they find 
a perfect match between a Big and 
aLittle. Bartlett said, Although the 
entire process can take close to a year 
to finalize, the end result is worth it. 
The process takes so long because the 
social workers need to make sure that 
the people volunteering are going to 
be right for the program. It might take 
a while to get approved; however, it is 
worth the wait.
When one first begins the program, 
the case worker in tho area willkeep 
tabs on the Big, calling once a week to 
see how well the two are getting along, 
and to talk about any other problems 
which might have been encountered. 
Annual meetings are held so that ev
ery pair of siblings can voice their 
opinion on the program and suggest 
possible improvements and changes. 
There are also holiday parties held, 
such as Halloween and Christmas, 
where athletes from tho Pittsburgh 
area somotimes make guest appear
ances and the children can get auto
graphs and have pictures taken.! 
People who have knowledge of the 
program generally do what they can ! 
to help," says Bartlett.
If you think this program sounds 
worthwhile, and you would like to 
participate, or if you would like more 
information, contact Suzanne Bartlett 
at x3969 or call the Big Brothers and 
Big Sisters organization for the 
Shadyside/Oakland/Squirrel Hill area 
at 621-6100.

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 January 1993Theres nothing wrong with America that a better hairstyle couldnt fix
Neurotic Living
by Andrew Sproule
Dont stop thinking about to
morrow... itll soon be here. Im a 
little tired. I just got back from 
the Inaugural ballB in D.C. I ran 
into Bill  thats Mr. President 
to youwhile he was campaign
ing in Pittsburgh and he said, 
Andrew, I want the next four 
years to be a time of change; not 
only politically and economically 
but also, hair care wise. And 
frankly, I think you could really 
use some help. He was right; Ive 
been meaning to get some profes
sional advice about my hair.
I received an invitation to the 
inauguration and to a private 
session with Bill, after the balls, 
bn hair styling tips  for that
Un
lu
all the time. Its the story of my 
life. Im not hurt or bitter about 
not being invited; granted, I might 
have been if I wasnt so used to it.
The reason that I mentioned 
just-before-a-tent-revival look Clinton giving me hair tipB is
athe seemsto exemplify. While that I am starting to believe that
was there, I ran into BabBMs. the reason I am excluded from an
itreisand to youand honestly, activity or from being extremely
er nails were like butter. Also, successful is that I never have
Mike The King of Pop Jackson the right hair style. Clintons hair in case youd like time for quality
stopped me and begged me to Fd perfect; hence, I believe, he gift ideas). My hair definitely
---------------- needs working on.
Now that I look 
back over my life, I 
think the pattern of 
me not being invited
trim his own hair and ended up 
looking like a man on death row. 
After getting married, his wife 
made him get a nice hair style 
and now he has a masters decree 
and is on track to becoming suc
cessful in his career. Me, Im 
twenty-six, still an undergradu
ate and have trouble remember
ing my own birth date (April 21,
4udition for a 
art playing 
Him as a young 
boy in an up
coming movie. 
Apparently, he 
was torn be
tween myself, 
Gary Coleman, 
and in what I 
took as a sur
prise, Chelsea
I received an invitation to ... a pri
vate session with Bill, after the 
balls, on hair styling tips  for that ^inactivitiesandgroups because ofjust-before-a-tent-revival look that my hair was set
, . ... forth when I was ahe seems to exemplify. child and I tried to
....... ...............................join the Cub Scouts.
I was rejected by the
(which, of course, would be yes, I 
do prefer it). I signed up to join, 
and a few weeks later, we re
ceived a letter in the mail saying 
that there had not been enough
Clinton. Chelsea and I do bear a became President. I am not just Boy Scouts of America and not 
slight resemblance to each other, making this up. My personal ex- because of sexual preference 
tiut it would take a lot of makeup perience forces me into this befbr us to look like little Mikey. lief.
I Well, okay, I wasnt exactly at My brother, Dave, has perfect 
die ball, and maybe I didnt run hair, and he is the only one of my
into Michael Jackson, Barbara siblings that, in the normal ______________________________
Streisand, nor, as far as it goes, amount of time, has gone on and interest to start a Cub Scout group 
Bill Clinton. I wasnt invited at become successful and happy in in that particular area. Thats 
all. Im caught, Ive been found his career. My brother, Robert, what they said, but Im pretty 
out. Once again, I'm trying to had awful hair for the longest sure they meant that they didnt 
-appear cool and be accepted by time, and he never knew how to want me to join, because I had 
the in crowd. Iguessljustwant style it. He once tried, without bad hair care habits, 
to be hip. Thats okay, it happens the proper professional help, to The National Honor Society in
Columnist invites you to bother him with any or all questions, answers, memoirs
high school never asked me to 
join. Many of my friends were 
members. Yes, I will admit that 
my friends had decent grade point 
averages and that mine tended to 
resemble the grade point of a stu
dent who Bpent most of his time 
drinking flammable liquids 
(which has never been proven, 
despite the rumors). I now sus
pect my hair may have been the 
wrong shade of brown.
Because of this theory of mine, 
I like to think that someday Ill be 
asked to join an event or organi
zation, because I did not have 
proper hair care techniques. I re
alize that this is mere fantasy; 
however, I think thatthere should 
be some studies done on the cor
relation between good and bad 
hair and success in life.
I would do my part to raise 
federal funding. The way I see it 
happening is that I get invited to 
the first presidential press con
ference and the President calls 
on me... Yes, Mr. Clinton, I know 
your stance on aerosols and I was 
wondering just what hair control 
product do you find works best, 
mousse or gel?
Andrew Sproule is a junior psy
chology major who has fashion 
problems a lot worse than his 
hairstyle and insists that he is not 
going bald.
Schlag's Nose
by Graham Gibby
Whats the deal with the plaque 
of Arthur Hammerschlag in the 
front of Baker Hall? Do people 
really rub his nose for good luck? 
This and other questions like it 
are the purpose of this column. 
To wit, the Questions You Al
ways Had, but Didnt Know Who 
To Ask.
On Schlags noseno one has 
ever seen gnomes or the like pol
ishing the thing. There is photo
graphic evidence of Rubbing for 
Luck, however, though the sub
ject of the shot wishes not to be 
revealed. What? Id look like a 
geek! Besides, its a bad picture.
As you walk about campus, do 
questions come up, things that 
make you scratch your head, won
der aloud to the person next to 
you? Well, hero is your chance to 
get the answer  ask me. Some
times Ill know the answer from 
my Great Bag of Wisdom (GBW), 
fallible as it may be, which allows 
me to report without attributing 
my sources. The GBW is really 
just my almost-three-years of ex
perience and exploring on cam
pus. Im not sure why I spent 
those late hours walking through 
buildings, but I did. Various class 
projects have put me in contact 
with other aspects of the Univer
sity, and Ive picked up some 
things along the way.
A good bit of the column will be 
stories, like the time Jennifer 
Sorenson and some friends were 
riding Kiltie trays down the side
walk where the GSIA addition is 
now. She was the first one down 
the icy sidewalk and managed to 
smack the back of her head into 
the fire hydrant at the bottom. 
There was talk of brain damage 
and concern over the fact that 
she was unconscious. She revived, 
however, and a lesson was
when the space now holding the 
Tartan Grill and Salads Plus was 
the Kiltie Cafe. Im not going to 
try to talk about Buggy or Carni
val as Unknowns, but hopefully, 
Ill get some good stories. Thats 
where the readers come in. If you 
want to be remembered in these 
pages, or at least be able to say 
Hey! Thats me! give me a call 
at x5460, or email to gglb. We'll 
talk, Ill take some notes, more 
people will read because you told 
them to. Everybody wins. But, to 
get to the fun part of the column:
... traying... is one of those CMU 
Things that we tell our relatives and 
friends ... along with the Gravity Feed 
Assembly Line explanation for the 
Baker/Porter hallway downgrade.
learned. For the rest of the after
noon, someone had to be hydrant 
guard and look out for people.
But how is that story perti
nent to 'Schlags Nose? the engi
neer in the back asks. Well, 
traying (always an awkward 
term) is one of those CMU 
Things that we tell our relatives 
and friends about when they come 
to visit, along with the Gravity 
Feed Assembly Line explanation 
for the Baker/Porter hallway 
downgrade. Tour guide stuff, to 
be sure, but Im going to cover 
more than that. This space will 
be for seniors to reminisce about 
things, like when the football 
team practiced out on the Cut, or
A look in the mailbag reveals 
 nothing, so Ill have to go to 
the next beBt thing, the Person 
On The Street or, rather, The 
Sidewalk. The first question  
What's up with the tennis courts?
According to Jeff Bolton, vice 
president for University Plan
ning, all those earth movers are 
actually evidence of the Univer
sity Center project. The side
walk along the side of the new 
dorm is goingto continue straight 
out and across the Cut. In order 
to do that, the earth bank must 
be built up to put the sidewalk 
on. So, the side toward CFA 
must be removed in order to build 
up the bank nearest Skibo. Once
that part is accomplished, the 
tennis courts will be rebuilt so 
that they are aligned with the 
sidewalk. Hopefully, it will be a 
while before they begin to re
semble a dried up cracked stream 
bed.
Next up is a good one  Can 
one get to the top of Hamerschlag 
Hall? Up there where those stairs 
go? From my experience, thats a 
yes and no question. Yes, it is 
possible to get up there  I have 
an eyewitness on that. But, no, 
you, the civilian, cant get up 
there. The CMU Radio club has 
their antennas up there, so they 
have access for maintenance, but 
there isnt a lot of safety equip
ment, so climbing around the 
stack probably isnt a real bright 
idea.By the way, Hamerschlag 
Hall uBed to house the boiler plant 
for the steam heat to campus, 
and the smokestack was deco
rated to resemble a Greek revival 
piece. There is rumored to be a 
walkway around the top of the 
stack  thats what my eyewit
ness says, but having never been 
up there, I cant say.
So thats it for this week. If you 
know of errors of fact, attribu
tion, geography, or physics in this 
column, please let me know by 
the above mentioned channels or 
drop a line by The Tartan office 
 Laura, the Features Editor 
will let me have it, Im sure. Take 
care and happy trails!
Graham Gibby is a senior pro
fessional writing major who 
thinks he knows everything be
cause hes from Texas. Think you 
can prove him wrong?
Nobel Prizewinner Herbert Simon speaks
By JASON STREITFIELD
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Nobel Prize-winning profes
sor Herbert Simon spoke at the 
first meeting of the philosophy 
club on Wednesday night at 7 
pm. Approximately 40 people 
crowded Porter Hall 125C in an 
effort to hear him. Simon is fa
mous for his work in the field of 
cognitive science and artificial 
intelligence; however, this lec
ture was dedicated to philoso
phy.
Simons lecture was titled, 
Is philosophy useful, ormerely 
necessary in life and science? 
In the course of the lecture, 
Simon made clear his view that 
philosophy and science are 
closely connected subjects  
they both seek answers to ques
tions. Simon gave his definition 
of philosophy as what philoso
phers do and narrowed down 
his definition further by defin
ing philosophers as people who 
prefer questions to answers. 
Simon made it clear that as a 
scientist, he is a seeker of an
swers, thus driving the point 
home that his is the same job 
that philosophers have.
With the title of the lecture 
that Simon gave, one would ex
pect that he would delve deeply 
into the use and practicality of 
philosophy in science and, for 
that matter, in life. On the con
trary, Simon quickly made it 
understood that his title bore 
no fundamental relation to his 
lecture.
Keeping in touch with the 
tradition of philosophy, Simon 
did not pretend to have all of the
answers. His lecture was in
tended to raise questions 
about the role of philosophy in 
questioning every aspect of 
life, from ethics to politics. 
Simon even refered back to 
Descartesego cogito ergo sum 
(I think therefore I am), ask
ing the fundamental question, 
How can man know reality?
Simon ended his lecture 
with a discussion of the MindBody problem, which is a 
philosophical issue regarding 
how a physical entity, the 
brain, can have mental func
tions, a mind.
Simon used his studies in 
human cognition to facilitate 
this discussion. In particular, 
he spoke about his recent com
puter project, BACON, which 
is a program that is able to 
derive fundamental formulas, 
or truths, from given data. 
Simon conveyed his faith in 
artificial intelligence. Al
though he did not profess to be 
able to prove the validity of 
his view, itis difficult to argue 
with a man of such experience 
and stature.
This lecture on the value of 
philosophy by a leading scien
tist in cognitive science and 
artificial intelligence was any
thing but predictable. While 
not actually answering any of 
philosophys big questions, 
Simon provided an evening 
filled with thought and in
sight.
After the hour lecture was 
over, one easily understood 
that philosophy has as much 
importance in real life as sci
ence does.
Jennifer Urso/Tartan Photo Editor 
:lva/ bTE2a gEeeEeS bTlra55lT maTvaTs REple 5oaOH5 about 5,Eae,a 
Oen oIE/l5loIc Os sIa pl5s Ta,aes lr sIa bTa5Enaesy5 .E5sEeSAE5Ian 
9a,sATa RaTEa5 /O5s Janea5nOci
z#1P^\
o
Io
B B reHebm
ORGANIC AND NATURAL FOODS 
MARKET 
VEGETARIAN CAF 
ORGANICS... OUR SPECIALTY
Produce  Grains  Cheese 
Cereals  Peanut Butter  Juices 
Cookies  Chips  Soy Products 
and much more!
WE SUPPORT
 local and organic farmers 
 ecological shopping 
 community ownership 
 healthy lifestyles
EVERYONE WELCOME! 
242-3598
In "The Factory"  Penn & Braddock Ave. 
Mon.-Fri. 10am -8pm
Sat. 10am -6pm
Sun. Noon-5pm

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 January 1993L3
n. 1. a 6 billion dollar culturally diverse international enterprise 
noted for recruiting the brightest engineering and scientific minds 
from all over the world. 2. 53,000 self-motivated, enterprising 
achievers in over 100 countries, totally committed to excellence. 3. 
A place for self-starters in virtually every scientific and 
engineering discipline to launch exceptional careers.
ENGINEERING 
COMPUTER SCIENCES 
GEOSCIENCES 
APPLIED SCIENCES
Schli/mbur/jer tiiduHtriax, Seliluinberffr Tech unioni un unti Sv/iltiinlwrwr Oil/ii'ltl 
Serein's am equal, opportunity employers.
PLEASE NO'I'Ii: Open to all interested students. Your attendance at 
the Information Meeting in a prerequisite to our iilterviewiiitf praam,
Pleune attend. Refreshments provided! Casual attire.
W
INFORMATION MEETING:
Date: February X, 1993 
Time: 6:30pm-8:30pm 
Place: Skibo 105/106
(hiINTERVIEWING: m
Date: February 2, 1993 ^
Place: Check with Placement Officenx
tn
.H 
ASchiumberger
Slice Of Life brings together alumni, 
students for practical insight on life
Director George Coates 
presents Virtual Reality
By MIKE WALKER
Tartan Staffwriter
V j
The world of virtual reality returns to the CMU campus on J 
January 26 with Artistic Director George Coates, the next" 
speaker in the Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series. Coate^ .j 
production, entitled Invisible Site: A Virtual Show/ combines'! 
art and technology with music and text adapted from sources 
such as Arthur Rimbaud and William Shakespeare to create a 
three-dimensional demonstration which immerses the audi
ence in a virtual world of live performers, computer-aided-, 
imagery, and film.
During the course of the performance, which takes place in a 
fictional chain of virtual reality franchises called the Invisible 
Site, characters are entered into a virtual world via the use of 
sensors worn as helmeted eye goggles and gloves. Participants ' 
are on-line with each other and can play against or with each 
other. Pterodactyl encounter allows the player to fight against , 
dinosaurs in an imaginary prehistoric world. To duplicate the; 
feeling of being on-line for the audience, 3-D glasses will be' 
distributed. It looked like a lot of fun, said sophomore computer science major and Tartan Editorial Board member Chad"* 
McDaniel, who watched the last performance.
There is no charge for the performance, which will be held on'  
Tuesday, January 26 at 4:30 pm in the Skibo Ballroom.
ALPHA PHI OMEGA, from page LI
manhood. The original group 
of men at Lafayette were mem
bers of the Boy Scouts of 
America who took the prin
ciples of scouting to the newly 
formed Alpha Phi Omega. Ini
tially, only Eagle Scouts were 
allowed to pledge the frater
nity. Eventually, this require
ment was dropped; the frater
nity decided that there were 
others beside Scouts who 
should be able to perform acts 
of service.
This same ideology drove the 
move for the national organi
zation to become co-ed in 1976; 
individual chapters were given 
the choice of accepting women 
without the option of returning 
to single sex status or remain
ing exclusively male with the 
option to become co-ed at a later
date. Many chapters included 
women before pledge require
ments were officially changed, 
registering women with the na
tional organization using the 
first initials or masculinized 
versions of their names. Al
though A Phi O is a co-educational organization, it is still 
designated as a fraternity and 
uses the term brother to de
scribe its members. A Phi O 
chooses the term brother be
cause it does not distinguish 
between members on the basis 
of sex.
A Phi O initiates pledge 
classes in both the fall and 
spring semesters. And al
though, as Karen Yun said, the 
fraternity takes a lot of time, 
she loved them [service activi
ties] all, in some way helping 
someone.
MORTAR BOARD, from page LI
tion needs to do things well and 
consistently. It helps if its events 
occur every year. People are more 
likely to take note of things that 
happen more them once.
To gain recognition on cam
pus, the society is planning to 
take advantage of National Mor
tar Board Week February 1420, 
a celebration of Mortar Boards 
75th anniversary. The week be
fore Valentines Day, members 
will be selling carnations to be 
delivered with a message. All 
proceeds will go to the Light of 
Life Rescue Mission.
Also to celebrate the anniver
sary, the members of Mortar 
Board plan to paint the fence 
with their name, motto, and ran
dom graffiti. The group will also 
plant a tree with a plaque to com
memorate the chapters involve
ment in the 7 5th anniversary cel
ebration.
Mortar Board is also co-spon
soring the Last Lecture Series 
this semester. On February 23, a 
local transplant surgeon, Dr. Os
car Bronsther, will give his last 
lecture. During March, Bishop 
Donald Wuerhl, of the archdio
cese of Pittsburgh, will speak. 
Secretary Laura Harkcom, a se
nior creative writing major, hopes 
that next years members will 
continue their involvement in 
planning lecture series.
The upcoming seniors that are 
acccepted into Mortar Board will 
be indoctrinated into service in 
the Jubilee Soup Kitchen for the 
homeless. The executive board 
hopes that by working together 
with the new members, they can 
help motivate them to carry on 
the work of leadership, scholar
ship, and service, Mortar Boards 
motto.
SHORT TERM LEASES 
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 
1 OR 2 BEDROOM 
APARTMENT SUITES
A few .steps from fashionable Walnut Street .shops and 
restaurants. From S47 per day (on a monthly basis). 
Beautifully Acccssorizcd-Everythlng Included!
5405 Fifth Avenue, PUtsbur^li, PA 15232 Toll Free 800-767-8483
CAMPUS CUSTOMER COUPON 
f  l'-i
510.00 off your next stayL
at Shadyside Inn I
r.1 tojKn u toj < :*/ accrvii - cii nr~ti. nn E
Somuol Groonflold/Tartan Managing EdltojRsAnaes5 oOTsE,EoOsan ue O zETsAO/ aO/Esc oTa5aesOsEle /O5s rO// ue 
RHEvl kO//Tllpi 'Ia ahaes 5l/n lAs ue MA5s O rag IlAT5i T"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------4U.
(shlm  bur  zh)
A Phi O going strongMortar Board volunteers
e wants to do his taxes 
but he finds it too difficult to 
hold a pencil.
Ta:,otn ,:S:o0: l:,Sur: rtxtujo 
o:Tlt:, AD NO. IRS-91-1756-2 COL. x 5.25
Volunteer Agency: McCann-Erickson
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Features Editor
The fourth annual A Slice of 
Life program, developed by 
alumni to share with students 
some of the experiences they have 
had since graduating from 
Carnegie Mellon, will kick off 
Career Week 1993 on February 
6. Sponsoredby Alumni Relations 
and organized by junior voice/ 
history major Kristin Carbone, 
the program is geared toward 
juniors and seniors, although all 
members of the campus commu
nity are welcome. The idea of the 
program was to bring students 
and alumni together, said 
Carbone. Alumni are a great re
source." Sessions in the program 
are offered on every subject from 
basic tax preparation to dual ca
reer couples. The program has 
only been slightly modified from 
past years. This year, Total Qual
ity Management and How to 
Survive Your First Year on the 
Job sessions have been added. 
The only negative comment re
ceived in last years evaluations 
of the programWe want more 
time for lunch  has been fixed. 
Youll have over an hour to fill 
your tummy. Youll also get your 
fill of questions and answers with 
six and a quarter hours of ses
sions to choose from.
Assertiveness and Communi
cation, one of the most popular 
sessions, teaches the prospective 
employee how to be a good com
municator of his ideas without 
being overbearing. Comments on 
last years session included, Very 
dynamic! Energetic! Thank you, 
thank you, thank you! from one 
enthusiastic attendant.
Dual Career Couples centers 
on couples who, married or un
married, are living together while 
managing separate careers. 
Couples share their trials and 
tribulations in such a situation 
and offer insight into the rewards 
and compromises that result. 
Good, down-to-earth session! 
said one student.
the list of praises this session 
received.
Budding entrepreneurs and 
economists may also consider at
tending the Investing for Begin
ners and Money Management 
workshops. The investing session 
teaches basic investment lingo
Entrepreneurship focuses on 
the necessities and problems that 
occur for new business owners. 
Successful businessmen share 
their experiences with everything 
from financial to personnel mat
ters. Awesome! Good stuff! 
and Dynamic and fun! topped
and how to use it, as well as how 
to choose a stockbroker and read 
stock listings. Money Manage
ment teaches personal budget
ing, obtaining credit, and insur
ance and mortgage tips. Hailed 
as useful, informative, and 
just what I needed, the sessions
are a must-attend" for those 
money-grubbers among us.
Leam to look your best at the 
Marketing Yourself session, 
which is renowned for its lifesaving tips on risumis, interviews, 
and high-fashion neckwear. Com
ments on the session ranged from 
practical and animated to the 
heartwarming thanks for keep
ing me awake. Marketing Yourseir is another all-time favorite 
of Slice of Life attendants.
For information we all need to 
know, Taxes covers the basics 
of preparing the 1040 form and 
offers other tax tips. Good hints, 
very helpful, and concise, com
plete, and easy to understand 
describe this necessary session 
for every citizen of the union.
Women (and men) seeking em
ployment in todays work force 
may also want to check out Is
sues for the Working Woman. A 
panel of professional women talks 
about issues one might encoun
ter when she starts her first job, 
such as maintaining a profes
sional image, being a working 
mother, and seeking employment 
benefits. This session was great 
because we made the session what 
we wanted, one participant said. 
Very insightful. Thanks! said 
another.
All in all, the day promises to 
be helpful and entertaining for 
all involved. Students need 
someone to tell them whats re
ally out there, said Carbone. 
"There are a lot of things they 
dont teach you in class."
For more information or to reg
ister for programs, call Kristin 
Carbone at Alumni Relation, 
x2060. Please register by Friday 
of this week to allow time for 
planning.
For this man it's arthritis. For 
someone else it might be poor eyesight 
or maybe they just can't cope. The fact 
is, last year 4 million Americans got the 
help they needed from IRS Volunteer 
Assistance Programs.
If you have the desire to help and a 
basic aptitude for math, you couid 
become a pari of the IRS Volunteer 
Assistance Programs. So volunteer and 
please call 1800 829-1040.
Volunteer and make someone's 
taxes less taxing.
Without your help, he may not 
be able to do them.

---------------------------------------------------

V*
tM
c===i2l
r
Sin1Ul/l c(SI
e*
1 si ^
ssi
25 r
'Ski.
OlI o > ,
if
e 5vl5u u.
V. *
3?
 vz 
Se 5
t-a V\Oo^
^ S .i
} 1
<5
THE FAR SIDEBy GARY LARSON
Nosavi xavo aaais dVJ y19
1HJ,
A tragedy occurs oft the coast 
of a land called Honah-Lee.

---------------------------------------------------

! ?rsm& 41 f=- rr~
C/3COIx
CJ
fl


---------------------------------------------------

THE FAR SIDEBy GARY LARSON
Nosavi xavo xa
Moses parting his hair t many jealous ears, and that night, as he stumbled 
Impolite as they were, the other bears could never from the bar, he was etherized by an unknown 
help staring at Larry's enormous deer gut. assailant and "relieved" of his trophy.

---------------------------------------------------

liVfi
THE FAR SIDEBy GARY LARSON
logs$n~ mgCuieMUvtJL F<uL wtIr1
Nosavi xavo xa

---------------------------------------------------

rt>X$ int> 
c%o *0X&90g
Stuff they send us that 
we get to print for free.lofi
z O in
<O
wa
7i
oc
<
X DWf MVE HUM HOP foK 
duHit- my Mrs t\>X eur 
M t weur to ms 
ADD&SS W A LAW. JT M)D 
UP P&M AfJ XtVim 
til Mr u/6.
/5UX SU/TS
yul tosuy uy 
hMkitJ'T LOOK 
I/#/Xf/Mri -.
>
n
w5
o>70-<
oZ
Scenes that make a crow smileScene from "Insurance Salesman of the Opera.'Youre darn lucky, Saunders.... If that rhino had 
really respected you as an enemy, he'd have done 
a heck of a lot more than just slap your face.

---------------------------------------------------

Help define 
the future.1MyuM,
CHINESE RESTAURANT
Voted Best Value, 
Fast Lunch
fEsc bEss5vATSI bOoaTG
The BEST of 
Pittsburgh 1992
Dine In, 
carry Out,
1 ' * and Catering
Newly Added Adventure Menu
Oakland
400 S. Craig St.
(Near Cathedral of Learning)
687-7777
Fax:681-3333
Mon. - Sun. 11-10 pm 
Carry-out Parking all Hours.
Noarby Freo Parking after 
5 pm 8t Weekends.
Apartments Unlimited
Efficiency, one-bedroom, 
two-bedroom. 
Shadyside & Squirrel Hill. 
Available December and 
January. 
Negotiable terms. 
521-7838 
24 hour answering service.
atCIMINI
walk-ins welcome 
406 S. Craig St.
1 BLOCK AWAY 
(OFF FORBES AVE.)
621-4247
SELL FUNDRAISING CANDY
LOWEST PRICES NO 
RISK TOP BRANDS  
REESE'S, M&M, 
HERSHEY, AND MORE. .
Call for details'and brochure
McKeesport Candy Co. 
673-4406
ofGovernmentbooks
Take advantage of 
the wealth of Knowledge 
available from your 
Government. The 
Superintendent of 
Documents produces a 
catalog that tells you 
about new and popular 
books sold by the
Government---
hundreds of books on 
agriculture, business, 
children, energy, health, 
history, space, and 
much, much more. For a 
free copy of this 
catalog, write 
Free Catalog
P.O. Box 37000 
Washington DC 
20013-7000
(iovimnwnt 
1h>oUs IU11KC 
ReccccRccc 'eat is*
Downtown
124 Sixth St.
(Near Heinz Hall)
765-2222
Fax: 681-3333
Mon. - Sat. 11-8 pm
Parking Garago Avallablo 
Abovo Restaurant.
AUDITIONS
Paramount Parks, formerly Kings Productions, is holding 
auditions for our 1993 season at Paramount's Kings Island in 
Cincinnati, Ohio. A variety of positions are available including 
singers, dancers, comic actors, instrumentalists, technicians, and 
specialty acts of all types! Come join the fun!
COLUMBUS, OH
Friday, February 5, 1993 
Ohio State University, Hughes 013 
6-8 p.m. Singers, Actors, Instrumentalists,
Specialty Acts, Technicians
CINCINNATI, OH
Saturday and Sunday, February 6 
and 7, 1993 
Paramount's Kings Island,
American Heritage Music Hall 
11 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Singers, Actors,
Specialty Acts, Technicians 
1-2 p.m. Dancers 
1:30-3 p.m. Instrumentalists
For additional dates and information call: 
Paramount's Kings Island 1-513-398-5600 
Paramount Parks 1 -800-544-5464PMGSISIAND
PARAMOUNT'S CAROWINDS 
PARAMOUNT'S KINGS DOMINION
PARAMOUNT'S GREAT AMERICA 
PARAMOUNT'S KINGS ISLAND
Our mission is to develop the next generation, portable, object-oriented 
operating system. Apple and IBM set us on our course, but doing 
something so new takes more than effort, it takes passion and commit
ment. Fresh thinking and original ideas. Which is why we present these 
exciting opportunities to graduating engineershelp us define this new 
technology. In the process, you will create the future of computing. And a 
future for yourself!
Computer Science/ 
Computer Engineering Grads
We have openings for new grads with a BS/MS/PhD in Computer 
Engineering or Computer Science. Sign up with your Career Planning and 
Placement Center for our on-campus interviews on:
January 28,1993
If you are unable to attend, please send your resume to College Relations, 
Taligent, Inc., 10725 N. De Anza Blvd., Cupertino, CA 95014-2000. We 
are proud to offer equal opportunity and a culturally diverse workplace 
to everyone.
 1993 Taligent, Inc. Taligent and the Taligent logo arc trademarks of Taligent, Inc.
'w**,
atwf4:
y*.-
.vC\ *
 ------
ddOengaOs'.rfsI inkitd 
i evento from neo-PsychejJry to T 
arWiJ. *
sr: ti n~ 7u fecora ls as an'1
 5) to receive more informai0*'-
With the widest dynamic range 
and the lowest distortion, its no wonder 
that when you record your music on TDK tape 
it gives you CD-quality sound.
GET SERIOUS&TDK
 1992 TDK ELECTRONICS CORP. RELEASED ASP 
DISTRIBUTED BY CAROLINE RECORDS
Offer void outside the UniteJ M "1' 
Allow 6-8 week f"r delivery.
Offer limited while >upplic> l.i-t.

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Mad Forest brings Romanian revolution to life
By TINA L. URSO
I Tartan Diversions Editor 
& chad McDaniel
Tartan Systems Manager
On December 21, 1989, the 
I people of Romania joined forces 
with the revolutionary Front 
organization, flooding the streets 
of Bucharest with shouts of 
Down with Ceausescu, their 
Communist dictator of over 20 
years. After four days of chaos 
and confusion in the streets, 
Nicolae Ceausescu and his much[ hated wife Elena were executed 
by the revolutionary forces on 
Christmas Day. Five months later 
I theFrontscandidate,IonIliescu, 
a former high-ranking official un| der Ceausescu, was elected by 
the Romanian people in a land
slide victory. In the ensuing 
months much doubt was raised 
as to the legitimacy of Iliescus 
election, Ceausescus execution, 
and even the revolution itself.
Pittsburgh Public Theaters 
presentation of Mad Forest, which 
is playing now through February 
: 7 in the North Side, offers the 
audience an engaging interpreN tation of these events. This play 
I was written by British playwright 
j Caryl Churchill and directed by 
I Mark Wing-Davey (well-known 
1 for his portrayal of Zaphod 
jBeeblebrox in the BBCs 
{Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy 
1 series). The Pittsburgh producI tion, a joint venture with the BerI keley Repertory Theatre, is the
I sixth since its summer 1990 open|ingin London.
Upon entering the theatre, it
was obvious that Romanian de- rier, even though the play is in ken egg off the floor so that they 
signer Marina Draghici (who also English: each ofthe scenes in this can use it. This first scene is concreated the set and costumes of act begins with a character ap- veyed with no speaking except 
the Obie award-winning New pearing in the theatre reading for the sound of a Romanian song 
York production) took full advan- from a book. They slowly pro- on the radio. Another family, the 
tage of the intimate, three-quar- nounce a phrase describing the Antonescus, are better off; they 
ters stage. Her use of the spaces next scene in Romanian, say it in are only mildly irritated by a 
aboveandaroundtheseatingarea English, and then confidently power failure. The two families 
helped make the audience feel as recite the phrase in Romanian as are tied together by Fiorina 
though they are 
truly within the 
environment of 
the play.
The play is in 
three acts  cor
responding to the 
events before, 
during, and after 
the revolution  
and Churchill 
uses different 
styles for each.
The first act has 
minimal dialogue 
and short scenes 
with quick tran
sitions. The sec
ond act is one long 
scene consisting 
solely of dialogue.
The third act fol
lows a more stan
dard structure.
The minimal 
dialogue of the 
first act conveys 
the oppression 
that the charac
ters feel under 
Ceausescu. Their 
relations are developed and their 
problems revealed instead 
through their actions and expres
sions. A clever technique is used 
to acknowledge the language barcourtosy of Pittsburgh Public Theaterue K.a,apvaTGx Mad Forest ,O5s olTsTOc ,IOTO,saT5 ato/OEeEeS sl sIa OAnEae,a gIaTa sIac gaTa nATEeS 
sIa ahaes5 lr sIa 3 Tahl/AsElei
if they had just learned it.
We are introduced to the Vladu 
family, who treasure their Ameri
can cigarettes and, because of 
their poverty, must scrape a broVladu, a nurse, and Radu 
Antonescu, an art student, who 
are engaged to be married.
There is a drastic change with 
the second act as the house lights
are turned on, exposing the audi
ence to the actors (now a new 
group of thick-accented Roma
nians), who proceed to give, di
rectly to the audience members, 
their testimonials about their 
actions duringthe revolution. The 
mood is quite like that of watch
ing a documentary. The tension 
of this act 
builds up as 
the actors 
paint a vivid 
picture ofthe 
confusing 
and violent 
events surroundingthe 
revolution 
and Ceaus
escus execu
tion. One 
particularly 
moving performance 
during this 
sceneis seen 
in Andrew 
Mutnicks 
portrayal of 
a student 
who joined 
in the fight
ing.
The act 
ends with 
this diverse 
group of Rom a ni an s 
joining to
gether in singing an old national
istic song that had been forbid
den during Ceausescus reign. 
The result proves to be very in
spiring, allowing the audience to
share in tho feelings of triumph 
these people must have felt after 
Ceausescu's fall.
During the intermission, tele
visions set up in the lobby show
ing actual news footage from the 
December 1989 Revolution 
heighten the experience of the 
second act, grounding the play in', 
the reality it was based upon.
The third act returns to the 
characters presented in the first 
act, but this time uses more in
volved dialogue and elaborate, 
lively scenes. The act opens with 
a very unusual scene in which a - 
naked man on all fours plays a - 
stray dog, who has a conversa-. 
tion with a vampire. Although 
this scene doesnt seem to ad
vance the plot ofthe Vladu family 
story at all, it holds deep symbol
ism when taken in the context of 
the Dracula legend which origi
nated in Romania.
Another very interesting, but 
seemingly incongruent scene is 
Rodica Has a Nightmare, in 
which Rodica, a member of the 
Vladu family, dreams she is a 
queen who is about to be executed. 
The lighting, sound, and rapidly 
Bwirling sot combine to create a 
very surreal scene.
Aside from these two scenos, 
the restofthis act follows a mostly 
traditional, plot-driven sequence. 
The divisions betweon tho Roma
nian people and the questions 
that they had about the motiva
tions of the revolution were seen 
as the characters were left won
dering if they were really bettor 
off than before Ceausescus execuPloase see MAD FOREST, page LH
Baltimore Waltz brings AIDS quilt to City Theatre
|By TARA M. SEMAN 
fTartan Contributing Editor
If you doubt that scraps of fabric sewn together 
lean evoke strong emotions, then youve never seen 
|the NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt.
Though the portion of the quilt that is currently 
Ion display in the lobby of the City Theatre on the 
South Side is only a small part of the entire quilt, 
lit is very powerful for its size. The 16 panels on 
display are a tiny portion of the 22,128 panels that 
make up the entire quilt, enough to cover 13 footI ball fields.
The display in the lobby of the City Theatre is 
[very simple. Two sections of eight panels hang 
from the wall. In front of the sections is a table set 
with a flower arrangement, a picture of the entire 
[quilt spread out, one bowl of the red ribbons that 
have come to represent AIDS awareness, a box of 
tissues, and another bowl for donations. Off to the 
|side, there is another table with more information 
boutAIDS.HTV, and the quilt project. Each panel 
s a work of art and love. Six of the panels are for 
people from Pennsylvania, mostly from Pittsburgh. 
Some of the panels are very simple while others 
very ornate and complex. The panel for a 
lerson named Rikk depicts a tropical scene com
plete with volcano and palm trees; it also includes 
he dates, 1959-1987. Allen James panel is in
scribed with the dates, 1958-1988, and features 
lorful birds in flight. A turquoise background 
fithblackletteringthatreads Ray Sprankle 8/25/ 
-10/29/86 Tyrone, PA and three torches make 
up the panel for one of the people from PennsylvaGold letters and an artificial rose on a beige 
ftckground make up the panel for Skipp, along 
*ith the inscription, Skipp  my first friend, you
rose-tinted my world, ill remember...  Patrick. 
All That Chaz within a flower border with the 
dates, 3/29/49-7/4/89, is the theme of the panel for 
Charles T. Harper. The panel for Leonard Harris,
m
 hEag lr O// 37 oOea/5 lr sIa nE5o/Oci
1eC s panel is a ramuy enon.
which features his name in black letters on a white 
background with a border of hearts and a birds in 
flight design sewn in white against the white 
background, is eloquent inits simplicity. The panel 
for Pittsburgh native, Rob, looks like it was a 
family effort. It features the inscription, Beloved 
son 2/15/57-5/14/89. The panel depicts a scene in 
a park complete with stick figures flying kites. The 
sun has Mom & Dad" sewn on it; the balloons held 
by the stick people spell uncle; and the flowers spell 
brother.
A large Grease logo and the statement, Tim 
received a Tony nomination for creating the role of 
Kenickie in Broadways Grease are prominent in 
the panel for Tim Meyers. Meyers panel also 
features the dates, 1945-1989 and written mes
sages from friends and 
family. The panel for 
Bill H. Callahan, 
M.S.W., is comprised of 
a bar of music complete 
with colorful notes, the 
words One Day At A 
Time, the dates 12/3/ 
47-6/28/88, and a pink 
triangle in the corner.
Among the more un
usual panels are the 
panels for David Lutz, 
Barry D. Hall, Keith W. 
Aurand, Patrick 
OHara, and Karl Gier. 
A painted portrait 
against the white back
ground is the focal point 
of the panel for Lutz, 
12/24/55-10/9/88. Halls 
panel is done in the tra
ditional patchwork de
sign with his name and 
thg dates, 1957-1986,in
pastel patchwork against a darker patchwork 
background. Afavoritejacketfrom ButlerTrucking Co. with an ID bracelet around one of the 
sleeves and a baseball cap with the slogan, 
GMC Diesel Power, 
sewn to a blue flannel 
background make up the 
panel for Aurand. A 
drawing of a man leaning 
against his motorcycle 
against a bright pink 
backgroundisdepictedin 
the panel for OHara of 
Pittsburgh.
Atouchinginscription, 
Out of the darkness of 
our sorrow we light this 
flame in affirmation of 
the brave and loving 
spirit of Karl. We have 
felt the courage with 
which Karl struggled to defeat and then to en
dure his illness. We have seen Karls many 
generous and kind-hearted deeds. We have heard 
the words of understanding and compassion 
that he offered to others. There is warmth in the 
light we kindle, the warmth of Karls love and 
caring. There is radiance in the light we kindle, 
the radiance of Karls courage and resolution, 
describes Gier, 3/19/59-9/22/87, in his panel, 
b/aO5a see 6ju9'G page 9//
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
NAMES Quilt Facts
flAesTEa5 ,lesTEvAsEeS oOea/5U YA5sTO/EOG 
ka/SEApG kTO2E/G fOeOnOG fIE/aG fAvOG .lpEeE,Oe aoAv/E,G BaTpOecG BTaOs kTEsOEeG BAOsapO/OG uTa/OenG u5TOa/G usO/cG MOoOeG PatE,lG 
'Ia :asIaT/Oen5G :ag QaO/OenG :lTgOcG bl/OenG A55EOG gOenOG RaeaSO/G RlAsI YrTE,OG 
RoOEeG RATEeOpaG RganaeG RgEs2aT/OenG 
jSOenOG jeEsan RsOsa5
a,lSeE2Ov/a :Opa5U PE,IOa/ kaeeassG nETa,slT,IlTalSTOoIaT( YTsIAT kTa55OeG MTiG 
rE/ppOHaT( .Oe 1E,Il/s2G ,OTslleE5s( PE,Ia/ 
0lA,OA/sG oIE/l5loIaT( mO/5sleG rO5IEle na5ESeaT( l,H mAn5leG O,slT( lvaTs 
POoo/asIlToaG oIlslSTOoIaT( RsagOTs 
P,?EeeacG jiRi fleSTa55pOeG Zdf'( 0TannEa 
PaT,ATcG /aOn 5EeSaT lr Tl,H STlAo 6Aaae( 
POt lvEe5leG Ykf eag5 Oe,IlT( MaTTc RpEsIG 
JO5IEeSsle an5HEe( .Ti 'lp JOnna//G F/cpoE, OsI/asa( cOe JIEsaG Yu.R O,sEhE5s( E,Hc 
JE/5leG SAEsOTE5s gEsI sIa kdqLy5i
'Ia 6AE/s TaoTa5aes5 3 oaT,aes lr O// jiRi 
Yu.R naOsI5 Oen L oaT,aes lr Yu.R naOsI5 
glT/ngEnai
 from The NAMES Project Fact Sheet 
(November 10,1992)
On the Mark plays 
at Tilted Square
By JENNIFER URSO
Tartan Photo Editor
On the Mark, a folk music group consisting 
mostly of CMU graduate students and alumni 
performed at the Tilted Square on Friday, Janu
ary 22 at 8 pm.
For all of you who wanted to have a quiet evening '. 
with some friends, the Tilted Square was the place 
to be. Although most of the audience was older, 
consisting of graduate students and their friends, 
and they sang a song that expressed their misunderstanding of the young people today, their mu
sic was, on the whole, enjoyable for people of all
Jennifer Ureo/Tartan Photo Editor 
Fe sIa POTH oaTrlTp5 rlT ,lrraaIlA5a ,Tlgni
ages who appreciate folk music.
On The Mark has a wide variety of instrumental 
talents, including the hammer dulcimer, guitar, 
recorder, flute, and numerous types of percussion. 
They handled these instruments very well, with 
each member switching back and forth between 
instruments and vocals.
The pieces that were mainly acoustic were the 
best of the bunch and sounded a lot like authentic 
Irish folk music. Its a shame, though, that their 
singing voices didnt live up to their playing abil
ity. The instrumental music performed was very 
relaxing and harmonic, but their voices just werent 
at the same level.
The group is comprised of Marion Kee (philoso
phy), Kathy Van Stone (CS PhD candidate), Monica ; 
Cellio (psychology/CS staff), Andrea Gansley (staff, 
EDRC), and non-student Robert Smith.
On The Mark, despite their vocal shortcomings, 
manage to pull something off very well. They 
manage to preserve a type of music that gets 
somewhat lost in all the labels of music nowadays. 
Folk music was big in the 60s, then came acid rock, 
disco, the unfortunate 80s, and finally all of the 
different, hard-to-define categories of today. Folk 
music has remained easily definable and On The 
Mark has managed to keep this music what it is 
without cheesing out and giving in to the publics 
demands for dissimilar types of music.

---------------------------------------------------

L10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 January 1993
CINEMA SCORE
Cinema Scope Is a new
 feature that describes mov
ies that are playing around 
the local area this week 
(Monday through Sunday).
' It Is not a complete listing. 
Call the Individual theatres 
' listed to find out exact dates 
. and playing times.
Beehive 
(Forbes Ave., 687-WHAT)
..Chaplin
The story of Chaplin's life 
.".and work, based on his My 
-' Autobiography and David 
r Robinson's Chaplin: His Life 
' and Art, starring Robert 
_'Downey Jr. as Chaplin. Di' greeted by Richard 
^Attenborough.
i.r,The Bodyguard
- n Kevin Costner plays a
 bodyguard hired by a super":'star actress/slnger (Whitney 
1 ' Houston) to protect her from 
;'an obsessive fan in this ro' mantic thriller.
y-Jhe Muppet Christmas Carol
Narrated by The Great 
Gonzo, Disney's musical ad
aptation of the classic 
Dickens' tale stars Kermlt 
oi;the Frog as Bob Cratchit, Miss 
'/Piggy as his wife Emily, Robin 
as Tiny Tim, and Michael 
Caine as Scrooge. Directed 
by Brian Henson.
Filmmakers at the Fulton 
(101 Sixth St., Downtown, 
471-9700)
' "'London Kills Me
Written and directed by 
Hanlf Kureshl (My Beautiful 
Laundretteand Sammy and 
Rosie Get Laid). Tells the story 
of Clint, a degenerate from 
the streets of London, who 
decldesto turn his life around 
.. by getting a job, which he Is 
promised  on the condi
tion that he gets a decent 
pair of shoes. This prompts 
him to go on a holy grall-llke 
;questfor them.
Ears, Arms, Legs, and Lobes: 
The Queer Body Course
A mix of short films and 
videos ranging from slapstick 
sexual puns to AIDS activists 
chaining themselves to 
White house gates. It was 
originally screened at the 
1992 New York Lesbian and 
Gay Experimental Film Festi
val.
Swoon
This film explores the story 
of Nathan Leopold, Jr. and 
Richard Loeb, two Jewish in
tellectuals made famous for 
the 1924 kidnapping and 
murdering of a 13 year-old 
boy. Unlike Hitchcock's Rope 
and Welles' Compulsion, 
which explore the same 
story, this movie focuses on 
the way, in the public's eye, 
this crime reinforced the cul
tural stereotypes against ho
mosexuality, Judaism, and 
intellectuallsm.
The Manor
(Murray Ave., 422-7729)
Scent of a Woman
Starring Al Pacino as an 
ex-Army lieutenant who 
spends Thanksgiving week
end with a young scholar
ship student (Chris 
O'Donnell).
Lorenzo's Oil
This movie, filmed almost 
entirely in Pittsburgh, tells 
the true story of Agusto and 
Michaela Odor.e, who 
battled to save their five 
year-old son, who was 
infected with a rare and 
mysterious disease. Stars 
Nick Nolte and Susan 
Sarandon as the child's 
parents. Makuda Steady, 
senior drama student at 
CMU, plays a family friend.
Alive
Adapted from Piers Paul 
Read's non-fiction best
seller, this film documents 
the story of a Uraguayan 
rugby team's survival 
struggle during the ten 
weeks after their plane 
crashes Into the Andes 
Mountains.
Aladdin
The Disney animated 
musical adaptation of the 
famous tale, starring the 
voice of Robin Williams.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse 
(222 Craft Ave., 621-6601)
La Femme Nikita
Award-winning French 
thriller about a female crimi
nal who is given a second 
chance by the authorities,
who program her into being 
a government assasln.
Heathers
Interesting, funny, and al
most psycho-thriller about 
how a new kid in town de
cides to deal with the crowd 
of "Heathers" who think they 
control life at their high 
school. Stars Christian Slater, 
Winona Ryder, and Shannen 
Doherty.
This Is Spinal Tap
Mock rockumentary 
about fictional British rock 
group Spinal Tap. Follows 
them on an imaginary tour in 
U.S. that promotes their al
bum.
School Ties
Film about a young Jewish 
man (Chris O'Donnell) In a 
New England prep school 
who tries to hide his being
Jewish. Eventually his religion 
is revealed, forcing both him 
and his schoolmates to deal 
with their prejudices.
Enchanted April
Two women rent a medi
eval castle on the Italian 
coast for a month to get 
away from their stifling mar
riages.
Glengarry Glen Ross
Film version of Mamet's 
play about corrupt real es
tate agents. Stars Al Pacino, 
Jack Lemmon, Kevin Spacey, 
Alec Baldwin, and Alan Arkin.
The Lavender Hill Mob
Oscar award-winning 
comedy about a shy bank 
teller who devises a way to 
rob his bank. Stars Alec 
Guinness, Stanley Holloway, 
Sidney James, and Alfie Bass.
Coming soon...
Career Week '93
OPEN YOUR MIND TO THE POSSIBILITIES
February 6 through February 12
Sponsored by numerous campus deparlments and organizations. Mejloci
Coordinated by the Career Center, Warner Hall, Room 19
AUDI-TI-0NS
DANCERS, MUSICAL THEATRE PERFORMERS, 
SINGERS WHO DANCE, SINGERS WHO MOVE WELL, 
CHORAL SINGERS
Walt Disney World Co., near Orlando, Florida will audition performers with expertise in 
the above talent categories for annual contracts beginning May dirough August 19V3. 
To qualify, you must be at least IS by May 1,1993. Bring current, non-returnable resume 
and photo. Singers who dance/move well and musical theatre performers prepare two 
vocal selections (one ballad, one uptempo); choral singers prepare two short selections 
diat best display vocal range, style and versatility. All singers bring vocal sheet music in 
your key; accompanist provided, no tapes. Singers may be asked to learn at least one 
movement combination. Bring dance attire. Dancers arc taught dance combinations. 
Candidates for die summer Disney Entertainment Work Experience Program will also 
be seen during this audition. Each year, twelve dancers who sing arc selected to participate 
in a program designed to enhance professional talents. Those chosen perform four to five 
times daily. Approximately ten hours a week arc devoted to classes and workshops led 
by Disney professionals and master instructors. Program participants receive a weekly 
stipend and share fu rnished apartments provided by the Company. This is a fourteen week 
summer program. May 30 - August 28, 1993.
If you have questions, call Walt Disney World Audition Information at 
407/345-5701, Monday Friday, 10am - 1pm and 2pm - 5pm Eastern Time (except holidays i 
Audition times arc scheduled for eligible performers anil open cull, for explanation ofelijiible 
performer" cull Actor's Equity Association at (212) 869-8530, ext. 308.
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Point Park College 
Lawrence Hall, Boulevard of die Allies and Wood Street 
Sunday, January 31 
Eligible Choral Singers, Singers WIjo Dance/Move Well lptn 
Eligible Musical Theatre Performers lpm 
Open Call Choral Singers, Singers Who Dance/Move Well 2pm 
Open Call Musical 'Iheatre Petformcrs 2pm 
Eligible Dancers 5pm  Open Call Dancers 5pm
CALLBACK SAME DAY
All full-time catena iners employed by Walt Disney World Co. are covered under the terms anil 
conditions of it collective bargaining agreement with Actors' Equity Association. Salaries are inbjui 
_________________________________________to change._____________________________________
<>U)c Walt Disney Company
ASzp World Co.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
POPPERS AMYL
a4Pv4Ubh4vab 4Pr9
THIS THICK LJ(pUI0... 
ANP WHEN itTU SNIFF IT, 
10U BKPLOPE,BflBy... /AND 
THE BARTENDER SflXS 
YWR WIFE'S ft WHORE,
erv you're TOO
STUPID TO FI6URE 
IT OUT.
in
UteraW
Carnegie Mellon Universitys
-SSMs
\s
u[o]
,ce9y

r',v i? m^ S> S
% Jo
&
ry
*
Q/rt
vO
0
E
Cc
w
o
-C
3
- <D
a>CO
0
X-C-4'
co
0-Orj
soe
0
00C
0
c
O
(/)fl

-O
3CO
x>
c
cti
uT
)
X2

3C
<D
Co.c
a

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  25 January 1993Lll
V&MkMM
Thursday, January 28
The Bicycle Thief
Bored with LA Law? The Bicycle Thief may be 
just the film for you. Director Vittorio De Sica 
(Indiscretion of an American Wife; The Gold of 
Naples; Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow) crafts 
what critics consider to be an all-time black and 
white classic.
Its the story of the search for the bicycle that 
is vital to a bill poster and his sons livelihood. 
The theft is reported to the police, who do noth
ing. So the bill poster and his son take matters 
into their own hands and scour Rome looking for 
the missing bicycle and its thief.
Starring Lamberto Maggiorani, Lianella 
Camell, and Enzo Stalola, The Bicycle Thief is in 
Italian with English subtitles.
At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
Friday, January 29
Raging Bull
Director Martin Scorsese (Color of Money, The 
Last Temptation of Christ, Taxi Driver) scores 
with Raging Bull. It stars Robert De Niro as prize 
fighter Jake La Motta. For this role, De Niro 
gained 60 pounds to transform himself into La 
Motta from his twenties to middle age. De Niro 
doesnt play La Motta; he becomes La Motta.
The film is based on the life of La Motta, who 
came from the slums of the Bronx and became a 
middleweight boxing champion in the 1940s, 
who made and squandered millions of dollars, 
became a pathetic stand-up comedian, and spent 
time in prison for corrupting the morals of an 
underage girl.
It also stars Cathy Moriarty (Soapdish), Joe 
Pesci (My Cousin Vinny, Home Alone), Theresa 
Saldana (of TVs The Commish), Nicholas 
Colasanto (Fat City, Mad Bull), and Frank 
Vincent.
Filmed in black and white to add to the gritti
ness, dont pass this film up.
At 5:45, 8,10:15 pm, 12:30 am.
Saturday, January 30
Under Siege
Under Siege is the latest action flick starring 
Steven Seagal (of Hard To Kill fame). This non
stop action fest pits Seagal against Tommy Lee 
Jones (JFK, Black Moon Rising, Coal Miners 
Daughter).
A group of terrorists led by Jones capture the 
U.S. battleship Missouri in order to obtain the 
nuclear warheads the ship carries. Seagal mi
raculously escapes being drugged like the rest of 
the crew and becomes the only man aboard who 
can save the day.
If youre up for lots of action, Under Siege is the 
film for you. I doubt Saturday night TV can 
promise such violence.
At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
Sunday, January 31
The Beat Generation
Steve Cochran stars as a police detective hunt
ing a rapist in this 1959 Carl Haas film. The 
rapist, a wealthy young man known as the 
Aspirin Kid, considers himself mentally supe
rior and above the law.
To prove this, the kid picks the detectives wife, 
Fay Spain (of Dragstrip Girl) as his next victim. 
Mamie Van Doren has a bit part as a would be 
victim. Jackie Coogan, playing Cochrans part
ner, appears in drag while staking out lovers 
lane.
Vampira (of late night TV and Plan 9 from 
Outer Space fame) plays a poetess, and Louis 
Armstrong and his band perform on screen.
The Beat Generation is coffeehouse fun for all 
with plenty of wacky beatniks, bad poetry, bad 
art, and, no doubt, bad acting.
At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
By BRYAN LASLEY & TARA M. SEMAN
Hexed surpasses expectations
By JENNIFER TURNER
Tartan Staffwriter
A billboard of a really ugly 
woman. The eyes open as the 
camera backs up. They close 
again. This is the opening of the 
movie Hexed.
Does it sound bad so far? Well, 
it gets better. Much better, in 
fact. Hexed is a hysterical movie, 
though some of the jokes are of 
the sort that are only fanny once. 
When you see it, youll know what 
I mean. And if you want a good 
laugh, youll see it.The openingis 
stupid, and the premise predict
able, but the overall result ends 
up being neither.
Ive told you about the opening. 
The basic premise: Matthew 
(Arye Gross) is a hotel clerk with 
a small bank account, a great 
imagination, and an even bigger 
obsession with the world-famous 
model, Hexina (Claudia Chris
tian). He even goes so far as to 
doctor a picture (albeit badly) to 
convince his co-worker Gloria 
(Adrian Shelley) that he knows
Hexina.
His wildest dreams come true 
when the hotel manager informs 
him that Hexina will bo coming 
to stay at the hotel. When she 
arrives, he uses his imperson
ation skills to convince her that 
he is the man she is supposed to 
meet that evening.
At this point, you may be think
ing to yourself, Yeah, yeah, yeah, 
seen it hundreds of times before. 
He meets Hexina. They have a 
great time. And then....
But this is the point where the 
script diverges from the formula 
(for the most part, anyway) and 
the real fan begins.
After they have incredible sex, 
Hexina tries to kill Matthew. It 
seems the guy he was imperson
ating was a blackmailing scum
bag. From this point on, the movie 
defies convention and begins op
erating under a new premise. 
Hexina is a total psycho, and 
Matthew is lucky to get away 
from her with his life.
Complicating the story are 
Matthews co-worker, Gloria, and 
his supervisor, Simon (Michael 
Knight). In the one predictable 
plot thread, Gloria pines after 
Matthew and wonders why he 
insists on living in a dream world.
Simon, who spends most of the 
movie trying to figure out what 
his next move will be to rid him
self of Matthew and his pre
tentions, affects the plot in unex
pected ways and londs to the over
all humor of the movie without 
seeming stereotypical. This can 
mostly be attributed to the acting 
of Knight. His impeccablo timing 
and facial expressions give life to 
an otherwise two-dimensional 
character.
Gross and Christian both give 
good performances and have a 
chemistry that is undeniable. 
Christian sizzles in the love 
scenes, and her voice is remark
ably similar to KathleenTumers.
Norman Fell (the hotel man
ager, Herschel Levine) makes 
several plot-advancing appear
ances providing moviegoers with 
more laughs.
The ending of the movie turns 
out to be predictable, but the ride 
there is a series of ups and downs, 
starts and stops and hilariously 
funny. Its a satire in some spots, 
a parody in others, but always 
funny in a dark sort of way.
Well, maybe not always. But 
often enough to make me think 
that this movie is worth seeing. 
So go ahead.
Spend six bucks, or three-fifty 
(if you can get up that early on a 
Saturday). Either way, youll have 
fun and spend a little time off 
campus. Arent you a little tired 
of DH 2210?
AIDS quilt comes to town
QUILT, from L9
which features a torch against a 
bluo-greon background.
PanolB can be used to com
memorate more than ono per
son. A panel with a pink border 
and names embroidered on jean 
patchos has about 20 names on 
it. Another panel, which has a 
quote from W.B. Yeats, Mur
mur a little sadly how love fled... 
And hid his face amid a crowd of 
stars, comes from the Persad 
Center, alocal agency that offers 
counseling and other services to 
people touched by AIDS. A sil
houette of the Pittsburgh sky
line and names within about 25 
stars comprise this panel which 
is dated June 1989. The Persad 
Center has pamplets about their 
services on a nearby table.
The display of the NAMES 
Project AIDS Memorial Quilt 
continues through Wednesday, 
January 27. It is located in the 
lobby of the City Theatre on the 
South Side (57 South 13th Street
 the comer of the 13th and 
Bingham). The display is open 
daily from 10 am to 2 pm and one 
hour before and ono hour after 
the nightly performance of The 
Baltimore Waltz. You can get 
more information from the City 
Thoatre Box Office at 431-4900.
Revolution at The Public
MAD FOREST from L9
tion. This was most clearly ex
pressed by a man, presumed to be 
mad by the others, whose shouts 
of Who was shooting on the 
22nd?! (the date the army sup
posedly joined the revolution) 
prompted members of the Vladu 
family to admit their own misgiv
ings about the event.
The tension of the Romanian 
people culminates with a fight at 
Radu and Fiorinas wedding re
ception.
Mad Forest transforms the de
tached headlines of the Roma
nian revolution into a powerful, 
personal experience that the en
tire audience can share in.
The American actors convinc
ingly portray the feelings of the 
Romanian people through their
performances. This combined 
with Wing-Davey's expert direct
ing and Draghicis design make 
Mad Forest a play that is bound 
to be one of the best of the year.
The Public will be runningAiad 
Forest now through Sunday, Feb
ruary 7. Performances are at 8 
pm Tuesday through Saturday 
and at 7 pm Sunday, with mati
nees on January 30 and Febru
ary 4 at 2 pm.
Ticketprices range from $23.50 
to $32.50, but if you show up a 
half an hour before the show with 
a valid student ID, tickets can be 
purchased at half price.
You can get to The Public by 
taking the 54C bus on Craig 
Street.
For more information, call The 
Public at 321-9800.
ClNI MA SC :OPI (( ON I cl)
Squirrel Hill Cinema World (Forward Ave 421-7729) 
Used People
Jessica Tandy, Shirley MacLalne, Kathy Bates, Marcello 
Mastrolannl, and Marsha Gay Harden star In this film about 
middle-aged romance.
Body of Evidence
Madonna Is accused of killing her rich, elderly lover 
through kinky sex. William Dafoe plays the lawyer who 
defends her.
A Few Good Men
Two Marines are court-martialed for murder In this Rob 
Reiner adaptation of the Andrew Sorkln Broadway play. 
Stars Tom Cruise, Demi Moore, and Jack Nicholson.
By TINA L. URSO
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
HEALTHY MALES WANTED FORSEMEN DONOR PROGRAM ATMAGEE WOMENS HOSPITAL
screening required 
fee paid for donor specimens 
if interested please call: 
647-1174 after 5pm only
msimj
Tm PlTlSIUUU.II MUkGkk4 N kD4ck]  t mzu I  Ml l1 gu1urue1
Irilh i/Kll ( >illtr.ll>.l<>iinii ( Jllllill Jitlh-S ITCillls Ifl.'X I'C If,I- <<>
t'lill.'iiiiil inm 'lit mining //.< Ilitslmrih Symphony:
"l grew lip in IVnn 11 i I Is 
and I wenr ro Carnegie Tech. '{
I was resigned ro rlie her 
that rlie odds of getting 
inro a major symphony 
orchestra were next ro 
nothing. I was all ser 
ro go reach school.
So when I got the job
I really Felt lucky to get 
inro my own hometown 
orchestra!
This weekend hear your 
hometown orchestra 
perform one of the most 
intriitiinu concerts of the season.
Thursday. Jan. 28. 7:30 p.m. Friday. Jan. 29, 8:00 p.m.
Saturday. Jan. 30. 8:00 p.m.
JERZY SEMK0W, conductor 
DANIEL H0EXTER. piano 
EWA P0DLEi>, mezzo soprano 
MENDELSSOHN CHOIR 
OF PITTSBURGH 
Robert Page, director
BRAHMS Rhapsody tor Alto. Male Choir. and 
Orcheslra. 0p. 53 
BRAHMS Shicksalslied ("Song ol estmy") lor 
Chorus and Orcheslra. 0p 54 
STRAUSS, R. Burleske in 0 minor lor Piano 
and Orchestra 
TCHAIK0VSKY Francesca da Rimmi. 0p. 32
Thursday. 6:45 p m inside llie Music, musical discussion with Resident Slalf 
Conduclor Kirk Musprall. Irom llie Hem? Hall stage 
Saturday. Post-concert: "Symphony and Swing." Big Band dancing In Heinz Hall Lobby
can 392-4900
Or visit the Heinz Hall Box Office
Tickets: $17-$35
Student and Senior Rush: S10 
one hour prior to performance, with I D
USAir .s the official airline of the Pittsburgh Symphony Guest artist transportation provided bv 
Mercedes-Benz ol North America. Inc W0ED-FM'89 3 is the Voiced the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Thursday is Dollar Bank Night and Saturday is Anstccn Chemical Corporation Night at the Symphony
Student Rush Tickets Available!Only $10
Bring your student ID to the Heinz Hall Box Office ONE HOUR before 
the concert and get a regularly priced ticket for just ten bucks.
(seals subject to availability)
*1

---------------------------------------------------

/M
\jt\
Are you a vegetarian or interested in 
learning more about vegetarianism? 
CMU. Vegetarians has a variety of in
formative literature and cookbooks 
available on reserve in Hunt Library.
Student Senate meetings are every 
Tuesdayin the Wherrett Room at7pm. 
All members of the campuB community 
are welcome to attend and speak dur
ing audience participation.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x2114.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have 
fun while getting involved in business 
activities at CMU. All majors are wel
come. Question? Call Aurora at x8310.
The CMU Lesbian/Bisexual 
Womens Discussion Group meets 
Tuesdays at 7:30 pm in the CMU 
Womens Center. Questioning? Posi
tively sure? Come to the discussion 
group for friendly talk and fun.
The Womens Center Collective 
holds meetings every Tuesday at 4:30 
pm in the CMU Womens Center. Con
tact Shel Strictland at x3595 for infor
mation.
The Christian Science Organiza
tion at CMU meets every Tuesday at 8 
pm in Skibo 13. If you are a Christian 
Scientist, or are interested in learning 
more about Christian Science, please 
stop by and find out what were all 
about.
Carnegie Mellon Action Project 
(CMAP) is looking to hire tutors for the 
following classes: 06-151 Thermody
namics, 06-201 Transport II, 09-245 
Physical Chemistry, 15-123 Intro to 
Programming & Applications (H&SS), 
18-133 Intro to Digital Systems, 24-101 
Intro to Mechanical Engineering, 24- 
121 Thermodynamics 1,24-141 Statics 
and Dynamics, 73-100 Principles of 
Economics, 79-104 Intro to World His
tory, and 88-103 Decision Making. Call 
jc2150 for more information.
A Rational Recovery support group 
for those with alcohol or drug problems 
meets every Friday at 7:30 pm. Meet
ings are free and are in room 205 of the 
Wightman Community Center Build
ing in Squirrel Hill. For information on 
this and other RR meetings in the Pitts
burgh area phone 261-5363.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club
holds its meetings Tuesdays at 5 pm in 
the Tartan loft. For more information, 
email db74 or jt3y.
The Career Center Library is open 
Mondays and Thursdays from 5 - 7 pm, 
in addition to regular weekday office 
hours.
official.career-center is a bboard in 
its second year of operation on which 
you can access occupational outlook 
data, workshop information, Career 
Library book notices, campus interview 
postings, and job leads for school year/ 
off campus summer and professional 
employment. All majors and class lev
els are encouraged to subscribe.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 
pm in Activity Room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Learn Okinawan Karate. 
Beginners are welcome.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on 
Tuesdays from 7-9 pm in Activity Room 
A and Sundays from 2-4 pm. For more 
information email cd2b or call x4179.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a
non-denominational student study 
group for those seeking insights into 
who they are, a change of being, and a 
livable philosophy, holds regular meet
ings on Tuesdays at 7 pm at the Cathe
dral ofLearningin room 236. For more 
information, call 343-1907.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is
held Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the 
Israel room (337) at The Cathedral
Learning. Call Shmuel 
Weinstein at 683-7770 for 
more information.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis 
Research Group holds 
workshop meetings every 
Monday at 7 pm at the 
Friends Meeting House. Do
nation of $1 accepted. For 
more information, call Bill 
King at 276-1768.
The Poetry and Fiction 
Workshop, sponsored by 
the University of Pittsburgh, 
meets every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the first floor confer
ence room of the Oakland 
Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers 
and writers-to-be and in
cludes Pitt and CMU stu
dents and alumni. For more 
information, call 421-8140.
The CMU Volunteer 
Babysitting Network is
looking for student parents 
in financial need of free 
childcare, and for students, 
staff, and faculty interested 
in babysitting. For more in
formation, call or write 
David Pegher at x4840, Box 
1107, or email dp31.
Dancers Symposium will 
hold dancer auditions for the 
upcoming spring perfor
mance on Sunday at 4 pm in 
the womens gym.
 Warner Brothers, Inc. 1991. 
lvaTs .a:ETl o/Oc5 O pEnn/agaESIs vltEeS ,IOpo ue sIa 3D$5 
5sc/a rE/pG Raging Bull. 4lA ,Oe 5aa IEp 0TEnOc eESIsG Os 5:45, 8, 
3$U3q opG Oen 3LU$ Opi
The Legal Affairs Department in
Hamburg Hall, Room 1507, will have 
open office hours for students each 
Thursday from 2-4 pm until May 13. 
During these times a staff member will 
be available to discuss legal problems, 
such as security deposits and leases, 
that are related to university life. They 
will not provide legal assistance for 
personal legal matters such as automo
bile accidents, traffic citations, etc., but 
can make referrals to attorneys in pri
vate practice.
C&arteto Latinamericano is the wellchosen title for tomorrows Latin con
cert which begins at 8 pm in the Mellon 
Institute Auditorium. Tickets are $12 
for CMU students, faculty, and staff, 
and can be purchased at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
WQED-FM, 89.3, Pittsburghs first 
and only classical radio station,
celebrates its twentieth anniversary 
today. A week-long celebration is 
planned, including selections of classi
cal music played in Pittsburgh that 
week 20 years ago, and historical facts 
pertaining to January 25,1973.
New Hope Christian 
Community Church
invites all students to 
join other youth on Sun
days at 11 am in the 
Central Christian 
Church located at the 
corner of Fifth and 
Dithridge (134 N. 
Dithridge). For more in
formation, call 621-6760.
The Church of the As
cension (Episcopal)
welcomes all students to 
join those who worship, 
serve, and fellowship 
there. They hold services 
on Sundays with a Eu
charist at 8:30 am, a col
lege class at 9:30 am, and 
morning worship at 
11:30 am in the chapel 
located on the comer of 
Ellsworth and Ne ville in 
Oakland. A Eucharist is 
also held on Wednesdays 
at 7 am. For more infor
mation, contact campus 
minister Hank Suhr at 
621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyte
rian Church holds wor
ship service Sundays at
11 am, with an addi
tional college class at 
9:45 am. Shadyside Col
lege Fellowship is on 
Friday nightsat6:30 pm. 
Contact Dan Moss or Annette Ediger at 
682-4300.
Free Spiritual Information Packet
on ECKANKAR, Religion of the Light 
and Sound of God. Call 271-4972.
PCORI
Admission to all DH2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
Solaris, the science fiction cult classic 
by Andrey Tarkovsky, plays in its origi
nal version on Wednesday at 7 pm in 
PH 100. Free admission. The movie is 
in Russian with English subtitles.
Let it Begin Here, a worthwhile film 
for all those interested in Peace Corps 
Service, will be shown at 2 pm on Sat
urday at the Beehive in Oakland. The 
matinee is free, and will be followed by 
an open discussion in the lounge with 
former volunteers.
The Bicycle Thief plays in DH 2210 
on Thursday. Showings are at 6,8,10 
pm, and midnight.
Raging Bull plays Friday inDH 2210. 
Times are 5:45, 8, 10:15 pm, and 
12:30am.
Under Seige plays on Saturday in DH 
2210. Showings are at 6,8,10 pm, and 
midnight.
The Beat Generation shows in DH 
2210 on Sunday. Times are at 6, 8,10, 
and midnight.
Sybil Berrys Public Images, Pri
vate Lives, directed by Aaliyah Eaves, 
will perform Friday at 7 pm, Saturday 
at 2 and 8 pm, and Monday, February 1, 
at 7 and 9 pm. Admission is FREE at 
the Studio Theatre.
The Voices United Gospel Choir
will perform Brahms Song of Fate at 
Heinz Hall this Saturday at 8 pm. For 
more information call x7523.
CMUs Jass Ensemble plans to crank 
it up in the Alumni Concert Hall at 6:30 
pm on Saturday. For more information 
call the concert manager at x2383.
Shabbat Candlelit Dinner is held at 
the Chabad House every Friday evening 
at sundown, and on Saturdays at 2 pm. 
All students are welcome to attend! 
Contact Sara Weinstein at683-7770 for 
more information.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors doeuvres) 
at 5:30 pm, with services at 6 pm and 
dinner following. For information and 
to RSVP, call 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House invites all students to 
explore the meaning of stress from a 
Biblical standpoint on Thursdays from
7-8 pm. For more information or direc
tions, call x4391.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House invites students to join 
them at 8 pm on Friday for a movie 
night of refreshments and socializing. 
The movie, Monty Python and the Holy 
Grail, will be shown at 9 pm.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through 
Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated 
at 7 pm Saturday andl0:30 am Sunday 
in the GSIA main auditorium. For in
formation, call The Oratory at681-3181.
row from 7-8 pm on birds, endangered 
and common. For directions and regis. 
tration information, call the Frick Na
ture Center at 422-6538.
Architect Frank Gehrys bentwood 
collection reflects a new approach in 
the material and structure of furniture 
design. Furniture by Frank Gehry will 
be displayed until March 15 at the One 
Mellon Bank Center Gallery downtown.
Tickets for the Beaux Arts Ball will
be on sale through Friday.
Lectures
Time Management is the topic of this 
Wednesdays segment of the Graduate 
Student Seminar Series. The GSSS 
have been moved from the coffeehouse 
to Skibo 105 & 106 and will last from 
noon to 1:30 pm.
Dr. Carl Johnson, co-author of Be
yond Self-Esteem: Developing a 
Genuine Sense of Human Value, 
will speak tonight to parents of young 
children about childrens development 
of self-esteem. Sponsored by the CMU 
Child Care Center, this parent educa-. 
tion seminar is free and open to the 
public. It begins at 7:30 pm in the 
Morewood Recreation Room.
Artises John Sokol, David Lewis, 
and Steve Mendelson explain the 
psychological meaning behind their 
works. The event begins at 2 pm Sun
day in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium 
in Oakland. To register, call 682-8172.
Inspirations, an art exhibition in 
honor of the Beaux Arts Ball, will open 
Thursday in CFAs Hewlett Gallery 
with a masked reception from 5-7 pm. 
The exhibition will close the night of 
the ball, February 6.
Six Personal Documents, a presen
tation made by six Pittsburgh Film
makers photography students work
ing in documentary style, is being dis
played at Borders Book Shop, Norman 
Centre II, 1775 N. Highland Road in 
Mt. Lebanon through January 29.
Behind the Scenes at The Carnegie: 
Photographs of Richard Hurst will 
reveal the behind the sceneB mystery of 
the Carnegie Museum of Natural His
tory to the public eye. The exhibit will 
run until March 7 in the Changing 
Exhibits Gallery.
The CMU Computer Club will spon
sor a presentation of NewTeksVideo 
Toaster Tuesday at7:00PMinDoherty 
Hall. All students, faculty, and staff are 
welcome to attend.
Earl Schriver, a local ornithologist, 
will present a wildlife program tomorSports
For more information on all sports 
events, call Bruce Gerson, the Sports 
Information Director, at x3087.
The mens basketball team will play 
Washington and Jefferson College f 
7:30 pm on Wednesday.
The mens basketball team plays the 
University of Rochester on Friday at 8 
pm.
The mens basketball team plays 
Brandeis University in the away game 
Sunday at 3 prn.
The womens basketball team plays 
at the University of Rochester, Friday 
at 6 pm.
The womens basketball team will 
play Brandeis University at 1 pm on 
Sunday.
Start off the IM basketball season 
with Sundays charity basketball tour
nament sponsored by Beta Theta Pi. 
Proceeds go to the Pittsburgh Cancer 
Institute.
Mens and womens indoor track 
will compete in a 10 am meet this Sat
urday at the Robert Morris Invitational.
The swimming team will compete in 
a home meet Saturday against Slip
pery Rock University at 1 pm.
Grab your chips and get ready for 
Superbowl Sunday! For all you sports 
illiterates, its the Buffalo BUls vs. the 
Dallas Cowboys, and it shows on NBC 
at 6:18 pm.
The Pittsburgh Penguins play the 
Washington Capitols on Tuesday at 
7:30 pm in the Civic Arena.
Why do they always have such good 
food at the Highlander on Sleeping 
Bag Weekends?
A
Rob, are you gaining weight?
Jen
to the butt-king, the boofer, my oneand-only, you really are the coolest! 
(surprise!)
Weigle,
A.KA Martin C., 7 years of 
college down the drain man. Can we 
have another Microwave or are you 
leaving now?
AB
Dearest Beta Theta Pi,
PHI CHI, CHI WOOGIE.
