THE TARTAN
Volume 8G, Issue 21Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania6 April 1992
Classifieds...............................11 Morality legislators threaten  Compubookie returns withComics......................................L5 freedom of press. another years predictions.Diversions...........................Lll See page 7 See page L2
Features..................................LISports...........................................9 The University of Pittsburgh  The CMU orchestra particiUniversity Calendar...LI6 wins the Pittsburgh Lacrosse pates in an internationalVoxPopuli...........................LI6 Shootout. cable project.
See page 9 See page Lll
CMU honors deceased Pennsylvania Senator
Ten years of promises
st
(jdl ft CfttC&i i 
By NATHAN FULLERTON
Tartan Contributing Editor
In 1982, the University Center was just an idea. In 1992, the University Center is already two years late.In 1982, Student Senate passed a Statement of Needs, compiled by a committee of students, administrators, and representatives from Student Affairs, that would let the administration know what students needed and expected from the new student union.In 1986 the administration announced that the University Center was their number one priority.Real progress was made in 1987 when Dennis,
Clark & Associates were chosen to design the new University Center. Their design, which had more than triple the floor space available in Skibo, included a post office, a bookstore, a 600-seat cafeteria, an increased number of offices for stur dent activities, and athletic facilities including a 50-meter pool, a gymnasium, and an indoor track at a projected cost of $30 million. At that time, administration officials announced that the Capital Campaign to raise funds for the University Master Plan had reached the halfway mark, $100 million. The University Center and the East Campus Project are central parts of that plan.In 1988, the administration announced that the University Centers construction could begin as soon as 1990. However, 4 months later, the University Center's construction was delayed indefinitely due to a lack of donors for the needed money. By that time, in February, 1989, the Capital Campaign had raised $130 million, but many of the donors had earmarked their funds for other projects.
Voluml mll e8G,Is 2u1l C
Insidearn giMUlmviu u22luim ty uy Gyvliyuvtgyuo Pb m2lMtuoh
SU PA renamed
By BRENDAN MCFEELY
Tartan News Editor
The School of Urban and Public Affairs will be renamed in honor of the late Senator H. John Heinz of Pennsylvania. The new name of the school will be the H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management, according to a University press release.Heinz was a seven-year member of the SUPA Board of Visitors, a relationship that SUPA Dean Alfred Blumstein says was a beneficial one. SUPA had received generous contributions from Heinz, his father, H.J. Heinz II, from the Howard Heinz and Vera
Heinz endowments, and the H.J. Heinz Company.When asked why Heinz was chosen as the recipient of this honor, which is expected to take effect on July 1,1992, Blumstein replied that he thought Heinz a terrific role model, and espoused Heinzs rational and effective approach to public policy. Blumstein says that the school will follow the John Heinz tradition with full concern for the important obligations that implies. According to Blumstein, this includes avoiding taking a partisan political stance, and trying to remain moderate in the schools ideology.Though SUPA is currently well
known among its peers, it suffers from not being well known in the public eye. Blumstein expects the renaming to contribute to the schools visibility in the public sec-. tor. There are a number of other schools named after distinguished public figures, says Blumstein, including the Kennedy School at Harvard.This increase in recognition may boost the qualifications of the applicant pool, giving the school a broader range of students to choose from for admission, though no significant increase in class size is expected.Heinzs family expressed pleasure at the delivery of the honor.
Buggy rules changed
By AARON JENKINS
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
Buggy is going through some changes this year. Old items are being pinned down, pass tests are not mandatory, harness width requirements have changed, and on and on. However, there is one rule change that everyone is talking about  the changes to the drivers roll requirements.Last year, the rules required drivers to go down the hill 10 times. This year, a distinction isbeing made between ex- ________perienced and inexperienced drivers. Experienced drivers need 10 rolls, 5 in their race day buggy, while inexperienced drivers now need 15 rolls, 10 in their race day buggy.The reason for therules changes is simple, ________according to Matt Adler, HHI MEMS junior and safety chair of the Sweepstakes Committee. Last year, a lot of the [organizations] came out at the very last minute and were able to qualify, but we didnt feel [that the buggies! were safe. So, we stiffened the rules, hoping that this would make the organizations come out earlier.The problem caused by the raising of the roll requirements is that some drivers are not able to qualify in time for Sweepstakes. Jennifer Kerstein (senior, technical writing), co-chair of buggy for Delta Tau Delta, says that the rules are not to blame. The rules themselves are set up to be guidelines for safety, she says. These are the requirements that should make a buggy safe to roll. If the driver has gone down the hill [the
required number of times] in the buggy, you know shes safe to roll. The problems being caused by the rule changes are not due to the new rules, .but to the weather. Buggy rolls have been canceled due to weather for most of the spring semester. There have been problems with rain in previous years; last year there was bad weather during much of the spring roll time. The problem this year is that there has been consistently bad weather very close to Carnival  traditionally the time when most organizaWhy should we reward those 
organizations who haven't made 
as much of a commitment [by 
giving them exceptions]?
 Matt Adler
tions scramble to complete their roll requirements.A change that occurred in the unwritten rules is the case-by- case examination of possible exceptions to the roll requirements. In past years, the Sweepstakes Committee has reviewed every case that came before it individually, in order to determine if an organization that didnt have the number of rolls needed was still safe to race. This year, no exceptions to the rules are being made.The organizations that do not need the exceptions are those who came out pretty consistently, who had their new buggies ready early, who were [capability tested] early, and who were ready to go, says Adler. On the days when we could roll, they did, and they have [qualified] or will. These organizations
have made a huge commitment, so why should we reward those organizations who havent made as much of a commitment [by giving them exceptions]?Adler admits that the no-exception rule is harsh, because not all organizations need exceptions solely because of a lack of commitment. He contends that once an exception is made for one organization, another organization wants a bigger one, and so on  a situation which Adler finds unacceptable.
____________ Another changein the rules pertains to the buggies themselves; due to the weather, roll requirements for new buggies were lowered from 10 rolls to seven.We figured that____________ we needed toI [adapt] to the weather [conditions], and this seemed a good place to do it, Adler says. The weather affects everyone universally  everyone has the same handicap.Karl Lentz (senior, mechanical engineering), co-chair of Spirit buggy, agrees with Adler. I think it was a good thing to do, because a lot of the teams that are competitive every year made new buggies, and they had them done early in the semester, but were unable to roll them soon because of the rain..However, Lentz adds, I think, that the problem will be that a lot of teams will not be able to put the [experienced] driver... in the buggy they want. I think that the roll requirements should be lowered more because of this  keeping [requirements] high doesnt make race day safer; it makes it worse.
Hsln-I Chow/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
Hey! J thoMUtwas jimngr
eae .iu6Auvl evA6lyv Pgimvly pl22ly9lo6 Hum MuA1Uv -w mAi2itml um u mA66ly mygHmvgi/ 
Mguvl6 vUl aAv 6Aity1 ouMigmml 2iuMvtMlh
Controversial Senate budget hearings 
cause minor disputes
By GREG LEVREAULT
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Student Senate presented their budget allocations for Springl9921ast Tuesday, and quite a few groups received some surprises, not all pleasant. After nearly seven hours of deliberation, some organizations found _______________themselves givenlessthan requested. In particular,
The Thistle and the Korean Student ________________Association found their budgets zeroed overnight.The budget hearing Tuesday is a standard procedure. When an organization requests a subsidy from Student Senate, its officers fill out several forms for Senate Funding and Recognition Committe (F&R) perusal, and take part in individual budget hearings in front of F&R. When the budget is accounted for, it is presented at a to the full Senate,
where the distribution of money is discussed, and any information is used as Senate sees fit to revise the budget allocations.
The Thistle expected a $20,000 subsidy but was left with a zeroed budget. Senate cited their lack of a constitution, whichhadbeenrequested
7 think its going to be okay now.  
 Kathryn Coonrod 
Editor-in-Chief, The Thistle 1992
last semester. Kathryn Coonrod, (senior, English), Editor-in-Chief of the 1992 issue of The Thistle, opined that the zeroing of the yearbooks budget was planned, but withheld until the day of the budget hearing, behavior which Coonrod termed unprofessional.The Korean Student Association was also denied funding. Senate discussed concern
of KSAs overspending. However, no representatives of KSA were at Tuesdays meeting; in fact, as of yesterday, the KSA was still unaware of their budget situation.On Thursday, F&R attempted to reach a compromise with disappointed groups, including Big Broth-__________________ ers/BigSisters and the Scuba Club. The 
Th is tie presented__________________ a new con-9SHSBBH8 stitution, for Senateapproval.F&R Co-chair Amy Blake feels that Senate is partially responsible for the disorganization. Although each group received word of the hearing before spring break, there was no contact made after spring break. Coonrod thought that Senate might be paranoid in its budget-slashing, but added,  I think its going to be okay now.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 1992THIS JUST IN...
Apple sues Microsoft, HP
SAN FRANCISCO, April 1 The judge presiding over Apple Computers copyright infringement suit against Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard set three hearings that could be a prelude to a trial of the closely watched case beginning as early as June.The hearings are to decide18 pretrial motions that the companies filed in recent weeks that get at the crux of the four-year-old case. As reported, Apple is seeking up to $5.5 billion in damages, claiming its two rivals used the look and feel of the Macintosh computer in competing software products, including the MS-Windows program that has become a fixture on millions of personal computers. The defendants say they are protected under a 1985 license agreement withApple and because the Macintosh includes a number of unorigi
nal or utilitarian traits.Microsoft is a software company and Hewlett-Packard produces hardware. On April 13, U.S. District Judge Vaughn Walker will address the scope of copyright protection of the Macintosh and other Apple works, according to an order the judge issued yesterday. On May 12, the judge will sort out all questions of similarity affecting the products involved in the dispute, and on June 9, the scope of damages that Apple might be able to recover.The suit is considered a bellwether in companies use of the courts to vindicate allegedly wrongful takings of intellectual property. Most observers believe it is unlikely that the case will be resolved short of a trial. Last December, Judge Walker indicated a jury trial might begin as soon as June or July.
THEA RNenyeE ars ofNNfpm fm EHRRpiB pu glc
WASHINGTON, April 1 (DJ) President Bush, citing a defining moment in history, announced the U.S. will provide funds for a $6 billion international fund to stabilize the ruble.At a press conference, Bush, Secretary of State James Baker, and Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady unveiled a $24 billion package to support Russias move toward a market economy.The initiative is also designed to garner Congressional support for a $12 billion U.S. contribution to the International Monetary Fund (IMF).Bush also announced an extra $1.1 billion in Commodity Credit Corporation guarantees for the purchase of U.S. agriculture products by Russia and other former Soviet republics.Of the total $24 billion package being offered by the major Western nations, about $18 billion is financial support to help stabilize and restructure the economies of Russia and the
other former Soviet republics, now known as the Commonwealth Of Independent States.Bush said that the bulk of the funding will be funneled through the international financial institutions of the IMF and World Bank. Therefore, Bush said, theres not a lot of new money involved in terms of outlays by the U.S. government.BushsaidtheU.S. stake would amount to about 20 percent of the full package.German Chancellor Helmut Kohl said in Bonn that the Western industrialized nations known as the Group of Seven had agreed on the package to aid the former Soviet republics.The legislation would also repeal cold war laws that currently prevent U.S. companies from doing business in the former Soviet Union. It also includes programs to permit U.S. businessmen and experts to go to the commonwealth to help form market-based institutions.
It further broadens a $500 million fund for helping destroy nuclear missiles to also include reactor safety, nuclear waste clean-up, and other technology concerns.Bush said that the package aims to provide all of the aid sometime in 1992 if it passes in Congress.Bush said he had sounded opinions on Capitol Hill about the intiative in meetings with Congressional leaders.Bush said that in speeches he will simply make the case that to do nothing would be irresponsible. We have a personal stake every American in assuring the success of Russian economic reforms. The risks, according to Bush, are far greater if nothing is done to aid the CIS.Baker indicated that the $6 billion stabilization fund will be funneled through the IMFs general agreements to borrow and therefore wont require an extra appropriation by Congress that
would affect the U.S. budget deficit.Similarly, the bulk of the rest of the $18 billion included in the economic support package also wont require an extra congressional appropriations, except for part of the $2 billion that is the U.S. share, Baker said. A large part of that amount is a $600 million grain credit for Russia, which wont require an appropriation, he said.Although the U.S. is prepared as of now only to contribute to a $6 billion stabilization fund for Russia, the legislation proposed by Bush envisions an eventual $3 billion U.S. total contribution to stabilization funds for Russia and the other former Soviet states.On other topics, President Bush said that it is in the U.S.s interest to strongly support Russian PresidentBoris Yeltsin.Bush also said that it is important for U.S. troops to remain involved in Europe.
Students fair poorly in science
I WASHINGTON, March 27  Na- tional test results show that most American middle and high school students have a basic understanding of scientific facts and principles but that few are able to analyze, interpret, or apply the knowledge, 
Th e Wall Street Journal reported.| At a time when U.S. businesses are struggling in the global market to retain their pre-eminence in science and technology, the future implications are grave, j The test, administered by the National Assessment for Educational Progress, a federal student monitoring project, was given to more than 19,000 students in the fourth, eighth, and twelfth grades across the country in the spring of 1990.Students were rated on four levels. The lowest level indicated a basic understanding of simple scientific principles, while the highest showed an ability to integrate specialized information to solve problems.The average score of the fourth graders fell between the first two levels; while the average score of the eighth graders fell between the second and third. The average score of the twelfth graders fell just short of
the third level, which is supposed to indicate an ability to analyze scientific procedures and data. A sample question at the third level asked students to show on a diagram ofthe sun and the Earth where the moon would be during a solar eclipse.At a news conference to release the test results, Education Secretary Lamar Alexander urged schools to place more importance on science. Weve put more priority on English and math, and weve seen results. We do not have a priority on science in this country, he said.White students significantly outperformed black and Hispanic students on the test, and Hispanic students consistently did better than blacks. Moreover, students at parochial and other private schools scored better than public school students at all grades. And boys performed better than girls in the eighth and twelfth grades after matching them in the fourth grade.Alexander blamed our cultural attitudes for the declining scientific achievement by girls as they got older. Weve gotten in the habit of not expecting girls to learn science, he said. Weve got to get over that.
hdcd r7 pBAei mtBfpmE emupie meC 
mHNeti pMRpmemB e1RpiB ieEBifBfpmE
WASHINGTON, April 3The U.S. and 26 other countries, including five from the former Soviet bloc, agreed to extend multilateral export controls to scores of civilian products that could be used to make nuclear bombs, The Wall 
Street Journal reported.The historic accord forged this week in Warsaw indicates the start of broader East-West cooperation to prevent developing countries from acquiring the technology and the goods needed to construct such weapons.The Nuclear Suppliers Group, which now consists of these 27 countries, has been controlling shipments of materials directly associated with bomb-mak- ing since the 1970s, and the Soviet Union was an early member of the group. However, this is the first time the group has agreed to apply similar controls to a wider list of such dual- use items as machine tools, industrial furnaces, andlaboratory testing equipment. Dual-use goods are designed mainly for civilian uses but may also have some weapons-making utility.This may be the most significant international export-control initiative since CoCom, said a senior U.S. official. The U.S. and its allies established the Coordinating Committee on Multi
lateral Export Controls, or CoCom, in 1949 to deny the Soviet block access to dual-use products. Now Russia, Poland, Hungary, Romania, and Czechoslovakia are joining the U.S. in policing the trade in such goods.The agreement also means that U.S. exporters will no longer be at a competitive disadvantage through unilateral U.S. controls. Before the Warsaw agreement, the U.S. alone required export licenses for dual-use items on nonproliferation grounds. Under the licensing system, an exportermust identify the buyer of specified products and describe how the products will be used. Nowthe other Nuclear Suppliers Group members will adopt a similar system.The Warsaw accord covers 60 dual- use goods  five short of the 65 on the U.S. list. The U.S. failed to persuade the other members to include computers. However, the U.S. and Japan have a separate agreement to control the export of supercomputers, and the U.S. is urging some Western European nations to join this arrangement.The suppliers groups list includes industrial equipment such as electron- beam furnaces, vibration-test equipment and spin-forming machines, as well as certain materials such as highstrength aluminum, beryllium, enriched boron, lithium, and titanium alloys. The list also covers laser amplifiers and other equipment that can be used to separate uranium isotopes.At a meeting of the suppliers group in Switzerland this year, the U.S. persuaded the other members to add electromagnetic separation equipment to the list because a United Nations inspection team had found such gear in Iraqs nuclear facilities.The Nuclear Suppliers Group, however, still lacks a permanent secretariat along the line of CoComs. Paul Freedenberg, a former U.S. export administrator, said its effectiveness will depend on how well its members can communicate with each other and trade relevantintelligence as CoCom has done for years. Well have to see if it can acquire some teeth, he said.U.S. officials said the Nuclear Suppliers Groups members will adopt the list today but gave no details about how each member will enforce the controls.
News Briefs courtesy of Dow Jones, Inc.Layout by Brian Stewart
92GGI SSr
REGISTRATION WEEK
T,Sefd IN cSRR $550 anee ePSPne3
GRADUATES4TH/5TH YR 
SENIORS
JUNIORSSOPHOMORESALL OTHERS
rINdS* 
SV)GR 0O
rINdS* 
SV)GR 0O
PnfedS* 
SV)GR 0$
DfdNfedS* 
SV)GR 00
c)GdS* 
SV)GR 0C
All ludinti should register during Registration Wssk It thsy wish to snroll for Fsll 1992. It you won't b rsturnlng (tor reasons other than grsduatlon), submit an Application for Wlthdrswsl or Lsave of Absence (msrksd "Fait 1992") to ths Rsglstrar's Office, Wsrnsr Hsll 201.
Ail currently-enrolled students will first receive s Biographic Update Sheet and a letter explaining the reglatratlon proceaa; review the Bio Updsts Shsst, make corrections snd submit ths form to ths Rsglstrar's Offlcs (If there are no changea, keep the form). A Reglstratlon/Add/Dropform Is snclosed In each Fall 1092 Sch.dul. of C/aasee, available at the Sklbo Information Daak, outside the CFA Dean's Office and Inaldethe main entrances to Baker Hall and Doherty Hall.
HQW.TQ REGISTER
1. Pick up a Fall 1992 Schadul of Claaaaa with Raglatratlon/Add/Drop form Inside.
2. Plan coursa selections and alternatives with your advisor, and obtain your advisor's approval on tha RAD. Many advisors will extend office hours during Reglatratlon; contact yours for specific Information. RAD forms without adviaor approval will not be processed.
3. Go to the departments teaching the course(s) In which you wish to register on your raglatratlon day (or attar), between 9:30 AM and 4:00 PM. The department will enter the course(s) directly Into your schedule on the Student Information System and sign approval on ths RAD. Remember that if you are on a "wait list" for s course, you are not registered for the course; you must add the course later (if approved).
4. Return the completed, signed Reglstratlon/Add/Drop form to your department. The goldenrod copy la yours to keep.
P.S. Approxlmataly ona waak attar Raglatratlon Waak you will racalva confirmation of your couraa acadula In tha mall.
P.P.S. Your dapartmant may conduct a "'pre-registration" prior to Raglatratlon Waak. Thay'll aand you Inatructlona If nacaaaary.
.i!-

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 19923
Student Senate MinutesCarnegie Mellon in Brief
STUDENT B<'imiiBHBu.il, -iJiijjjjjJjUJj
SENATE W.
Minutes of 31 March 1992 Roll was taken at 7:05 pm, Meeting called to order at 7:15 pm.Senators Present: Albert (CFA), Altmann (CS), Blake (CFA), Brown (M.atL.), DeRoss (M.atL.), Earhart (MCS), Hal- vaksz (H&SS), Haverkamp (CIT), Hernandez (CIT), Holz- man (CIT), Knauer (H&SS), Knight (MCS), Kraje (SUPA), Kroos (H&SS), Laefer(CS), Lawrence (M.atL.) (9:10), Loomis (GSIA), McGarvey (IM), Moore (MCS), Nightwine (CIT), Pott- hast (H&SS), Schmick (CIT), Shah (M.atL.), Shevach (CIT), Singh (CFA), Strong (M.atL.), Tomblyn (MCS), Trudwig (M.atL.), Was (H&SS), Wood- head (IM).Senators Absent: Lightfoot (CIT), Neighbor (CFA).Ex-Officios Present: Nightwine (AB), Potthast (SDC), Shin (President), Dean Witchner.Ex-Officios Absent: Wolfson (GSO).Special Business:Motion to officially accept the election results; motion was accepted by acclamation.The followingletterfrom Senator Larson was read:Dear Student Senate:Over the past two years I have accumulated many memories
while serving my constituents as one of their representatives in this body.I will not soon forget them.In the past this group has had a great impact on the quality of life for students on this campus. I believe much has been done here to improve our community.With the newly elected administration taking office, I submit this letter of resignation tonight so that I can use my time to pursue an opportunity within the executive branch of Carnegie Mellon Student Government. The potential of this opportunity outweighs what good I can do as Public Relations and Human Resources chair of Student Senate.Sincerely,Erik LarsonAudience Participation:Sanjay Khana spoke about supporting different organizations on campus.AEPi: Shocking Story of the Syrian Jews speaker Dr. Saul Friedman spoke on this topic today at 2 pm at the William Pitt Union; look for more programs on this topic.Special Business:Motion to move into committee as whole; motion was accepted by acclamation.Budget Hearings:Final Budget packet for 92  93: [includes Organization Subsidy and Total Income] [edited to include only changed budgets]
Big Brothers /Big Sisters subsidy :$5,029; income:$5,529
Focal Point subsidy: $ 965; income:$l,265 
Korean Student Association* subsidy: $0; income: $0 
MAYUR subsidy: $1,072; income: $2,907 
Student Senate subsidy:$14,450; income:$14,450 
Thistle* * subsidy: $0; income: $0* The budget to come up later as a special allocation.** The budget to come up later as a special allocation after The Thistle"s constitution is done and reviewed.
Italic type indicates changes were made during the meeting.Motion to accept all the amendments on the changed budgets, vote: (18-2-1).Motion to override the Fiscal Policy, vote: (17  2  2).Motion to accept the budget as a whole as amended, vote: (20 -0-1).Announcements:One CFA seat is vacant as of tonight.PR meetings are at 6:30 pm on Tuesdays.F&R is meeting on Thursday about clubs that requested computers.They Might Be Giants will perform on the Cut on Saturday, April 11.Meeting adjournedatl :28 am.
Submitted by NILOOFAR SOBHANI Edited by BRENDAN McFEELY
Crime and Incident Report
3/17 DEFIANT TRESPASS,9:44 pm. A student called Campus Police and said that she had just had an argument with her former boyfriend and that he was on his way to campus to do her and himself bodily harm. The responding officers arrived at Morewood Gardens just as a friend of the victim called Campus Police and said that the person was in the building and harassing the victims roommate. The victim was hiding in the friends room, and the officers searched E-Tower. The actor was located on the.first floor of B- Tower. He admitted that he gained entry to Morewood by showing the victims freshman orientation meal card. After surrendering the meal card, he was handcuffed and transported to the Campus Police office where he was issued a state citation for Defiant Trespass.
3/18 DEMONSTRATION, 11am to 1:30 pm. A demonstration was held outside Warner Hall. Approximately 10 to 15 people protested the CIAs presence on campus for recruitment purposes. The demonstration was peaceful and no acts of civil disobedience were reported.
3/18 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 10:23 pm and 11 pm. Campus Police received an anonymous call concerning a disorderly party in Morewood Gardens. The caller also said that the participants were smoking marijuana. The responding officers found the party to be quite noisy, but could find no evidence of marijuana use. The participants agreed to quiet down. At 11 pm, Campus Police received another call that the party had gotten noisy. The ofP I Z Z A
ficers spoke to one of the residents of the room, who said that they were hosting the party as a celebration for a friend. He was informed that as the police had to respond twice, the party was over. The resident refused to cooperate, and the rest of the on- duty officers were summoned. The officers threatened to issue internal citations to all non-residents present before the participants decided to leave. The resident insisted that police intervention was pure bullshit, and was issued an internal citation for hosting a disorderly party on a school night.
3/26 THEFT, 4:13 pm. An unknown person or persons stole a Macintosh Powerbook from an office in Hamburg Hall. There were no signs of forced entry. That office and another directly in sight were opened earlier that morning by the department secretary for a workstudy student. The student was working in the other office, in full view of the scne, but reported seeing nothing unusual. The complainant stated that the workstudy did not know the department had purchased a computer. The computer was described as very small and light, and could easily be concealed and carried away without difficulty.
Stearns appointed to National Professional 
Teaching Standards Committee
History Department Head Peter N. Stearns has been selected to serve on the adolescence and young adult committee of the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS). The NBPTS was established in 1987 to improve student learning in American schools and operates nationally to assess and certify grade school teachers. Steams committee will establish standards for high school, history teachers.Stearns, a Heinz professor, has taught at Carnegie Mellon since 1974. His work focuses on European and world history as well as the role of youth in society. His research on the history of emotion gave him international acclaim. He is the editor of two history journals, has served on the boards of several history associations, and is active on several college boards initiatives.
Senior biology lecturer wins Ryan Award
Senior biology lecturer Linda R. Kauffman has been awarded the Frances S. Ryan Award for, Meritorious Teaching for 1992. The award was established in 1961 to honor those who have demonstrated devotion and effectiveness in teaching undergraduates. It is the Universitys highest, teaching award.Kauffman has been a faculty member since 1978. Her most recent contribution to the University was changing a year-long biology course into a continually-evolving laboratory. She is involved with several outside activities including tutorial programs, computer prep classes for high school teachers, and the Pennsylvania Governors School for the Sciences.
Compiled by SUSAN ABRAMS
Corrections...
In last issues article, Greek Sing wows audience with colorful performances, information aboutTridelta was incorrect. In last years Greek Sing, they won first overall.
The Tartan corrects all errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Heidi Hoover at x2111,or write to her in care of The Tartan.
a bench inside the main entrance to Baker Hall, talking loudly to himself. The man said that he was homeless, had no money, had not eaten for several days, and had been entering CMU buildings in order to keep warm. The man also said that he had left a state hospital two weeks before. An officer called the hospital and after several phone calls found that the court order confining the man to the hospital had expired. Due to the mans history and a suicide statement he made, he was transported to Western Psychiatric Institute and was committed for examination and observation.
3/31 SIMPLE ASSAULT,11:50 pm. A CMU student was walking home on Fifth Avenue when he was approached by two men on the corner of Fifth and Aiken. One man began punching the victim in the face and when the victim fell to the ground, began to kick him. The two assailants then ran down Aiken, got into a silver Chevette and drove away. The victim refused to go to the hospital and was transported to his home.
Compiled by M. K. RODGERS
Undergraduate Research Symposium
MAY 2,1992 9 am-5 pm ; Adamson Wing, Baker Half
A symposium for Carnegie Mellon undergraduates to present oral reports on their original research in - science and engineering s Prizes Awarded 
1st $500. Cl asif
3rd *28)
Co-sponorcd by PPG Industries, Inc.; lBM; Unilcd 
Technologies/iisElevilpcMilcs Laboratories;
AT&f.The Proctor  Gamble Company
10% OFF
for Non-Members with this advertisement 
< expires 5/1/92 >
ORGANIC AND natural grocery store QwNED AND OPERATED By The PEOPLE Of PITTSBURGH
Studenau MuisnCur Members Receive 10% DiscountWe Support:
1 local and organic farmers 
 community ownership
 ecological shopping
 healthy lifestyles
1 educational forums
Delivery Available:242-3598
Take 67 F, J, L or 71C Bus to Penn and Braddock Avenues
Store Hours: 10-8 M-F 10-6 Sat. 12-5 Sun.
3/29 INVOLUNTARY COMMITMENT, 5:56 pm. Two offic- ers encountered a man lying on
Tlje Brainis wider than the Sky.
Erailv Dickinson
Spectacular pies for onel Each one a singular 
sensation. Pizza Provencal, White, Taco, 
B-8-Q Chicken, Grilled Chicken . Pesto, 
Seafood V Blanco.
1922 Mutry Avtnut  Squlntl HUI 
521-8222 
opon III midnight  Fri. & Sil. -UI I a.m.
AdoptionWe can make this difficult time easier for you.
We are a white, 
professional couple 
whose deepest wish is 
for a baby to love and 
make happy. We will 
pay your expenses. All 
very legal and very 
confidential. Our female 
attorney shares our 
dream of placing your 
child with us. Please 
call her now for a free 
consultation.
(412) 563-6660
Take an intensive course in math, lanpage, or science and earn a fall years credit in eight weeks.
Call 1-800-FINDS NU for a catalog today. Northwestern University Summer Session 92

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 1992
Bleachcra
Traili and PLivira Fieldi
Article, Mnr. 15,1983, p. 5
Carnegie
pen'cn,b? sluatnlC
sa;: 3.
pife c
WANTED
SOFTWARE ENGINEERS
Customer Potential Management Corporation (CPM) is a high technology, database marketing company and advertising agency. CPM also develops and markets software products nationally and internationally.
Computing Environment
CPIvTs Sun 490 Sparcserver with an ethemet network is connected to IBM PC compatibles and a Sparcstation. Software environment includes NFS, PC NFS, DOS, Windows, C++, and a variety of other software packages.
Job Description
This job includes the development of marketing software and databases from a variety of sources. Tasks include: Data conversion  Filtering  Standardization  Householding  Creation of tapes that are used to transfer data to our in-house electronic imaging facilities Development of custom reports  Design, implementation, and quality assurance of new software systems  Maintenance of existing software, technical support, and training
Job Skills
This is an exciting opportunity for growth! Competitive salary, benefits and a chance to make a difference await the right person.
 Bachelor of Science degree, but a Master of Science degree is preferred Proficiency and programming experience in the C and C++ languages, MSD and Unix
 Experience in the design, development and implementation of software applications Professional references will be requested
The selected candidate must demonstrate leadership, time management and self-actualization. Also, this candidate will attend national trade shows and be in contact with executives from leading companies. The ability to work as a team player in a small company is expected.
If you arc interested, please send your resume and salary requirements to:
John Ilallick, President 
CPM Corporation
2500 North Main Street, East Peoria, EL 61611 
Phone: (800) 332-263103^
CORPORATION
CPM will be on campus at Carnegie Mellon University on March 31, between 9:00 am and 4:30 pm. Contact the Placement Office or call CPM at the number above for more information.
After ten years of promises, Skibo still stands
THEARN NeRnya aHrrRaseofa poE TsHyRfs mfeof
olu Artide, Apr. 15,198i,p. 15Artide, Apr. 15,19M, p. ,5  Ug Q gOl
h'eĒ^!ity Center Nu,nber Priority TfUSlCCS . ^ Certer
Make the University Center number one priority
,latest Master Plan Revisions
Architects Unve.l Latestremittee's report steady 
Proposed struct p0gress on University Center
Phote courlesy of Pul
Existing structun 
YV. Warner Hall. 
U.Univ Gomp Ce
1. Ballroom am2. Gymnasium.7, Theater
  . . me8__=;
29.A991
Teh Fiaia
Samuel Greenfield/ Tartan Asst. Art Editor
gpNpiuHN AfEBpiO pu BAe 
hmfWeiEfBO gemBei
e8G,Is 9ig/ 2u1l $
In March of 1989, students protesting the delay of the University Center presented a petition signed by over 2000 students, faculty, and staff demanding that the University Center be made top priority.In November of 1989, the Board of Trustees made a firm :ommitment to a $41 million University Center that would provide double the floor space of Skibo. With a $1 million private donation by CMU alumnus Thomas McConomy, the Capital
Campaign funds earmarked for the University Center reached $9 million.By May of1990, $27 million of the needed $41 million had been raised.In January of 1991, it was announced that the University Center would be completed in the fall of 1993. Construction was to begin with Skibos destruction in November of 1991.But in 1992, with Skibo still standing, the Center was once again, and remains, delayed by a lack of donors.
Vuiv vHg g9 PUl PuivuyEm mlitlm gy vUl 9givUMg/ty1 
nytzlimtvw alyvli Htoo 6lvuto vUl uiMUtvlMvAiuo lzgoAvtgy g9 
vUl alyvliEm 6lmt1yh 
Vuiv vUill Htoo -l uy A26uvl gy vUl MAiilyv mvuvAm g9 vUl 
nytzlimtvw alyvli uy6 vUl gzliuoo nytzlimtvw rumvli Vouyh
TOSHIBA
T2200SX
40/80 MB hard disk 
2 MB RAM. 5.5 lbs 
3.5" 1.44 MB floppy 
386SX/20 processor
Special Bndle OHers with University ID
T2000SX/40 & Carry Case 1 
+ WordPerfect 5.1 S2049 - 
AND
T2000SX/60 & Carry Case  
 WordPerfect 5.1 S2299 
Buy a T2200SX and get a Megahertz Pocket Fax/Modem for just $99* ($379 SRP) Limited time only!UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS
on all TOSHIBA models and other hardware...Call for our catalogue. 
MOST POPULAR SOFTWARE available at guaranteed LOWEST PRICES!DSR, Inc. 800-875-0037tsr" VISA, Mastercard & American Express Accepted Authorized TOSHIBA Warrantee & Repair Service
There are hundreds 
of questions on the 
GMAT, GRE and LSAT. 
This checklist will help 
you answer ail of them.
Kaplan makes test prep convenient.With 150 centers ana thousands of class schedules, the odds are we'll be ready to teach when and where you need us to be there.
Kaplan helps you manage your time.Diagnostic tests and personalized counseling help you recognize stumbling blocks early on, before they hurt your performance.
Kaplan offers the best value.Our courses are competitively priced and offer the complete preparation that has helped more students get into the school of their choice than anyone else.
Kaplan is the industry leader.53 years of experience and 2 million graduates prove weve got the expertise and resources it takes to help students succeed.
Kaplan Test Prep 
E The Answer
1992 Stanley H. Kaplan Educational Center Ltd.

---------------------------------------------------

?e 1992 Summer Sessions
Undergraduate & Graduate Courses for Summer Sessions:
(1) Offered Summer Session One May 18- June 26,1992
(1&2) Offered Summer Session All May 18-August 14,1992
(2) Offered Summer Session Two June 29 - August 7,1992
* Graduate Course Number
CourseNumberSessions
DeoartmentNumberCourse Titleof unitsOffered
Art60-374Individual Problems9 units(1)(2)
60-380Contemporary Art9 units(1)
60-381Contemporary Issues in Art History9 units(1)
Architecture48-300Architectural Design Studio18 units(1&2)
48-400Architectural Design Studio18 units(1&2)
Biomedical42-500Physiology9 units(1)Engineering42-560Undergraduate Projects9 units(1)(2)
*42-735Physiology9 units(1)
Chemical06-300Undergraduate Projects9 units(1)Engineering
Chemistry09-103Fundamentals of Gen. Chemistry9 units(1)
09-105Modern Chemistry I10 units(1)
09-106Modern Chemistry II10 units(1)
Design51-210Beginning Photography9 units(1)
51-371Junior Independent Study9 units(1)(2)
51-471Senior Independent Study9 units(1)(2)
Economics73-100Principles of Economics9 units(1)(2)
73-250Intermediate Microeconomics9 units(1)(2)
73-300Intermediate Macroeconomics9 units(2)
73-360Econometrics9 units(1)
English76-100Intro. English Studies-Argument9 units("0(2)
76-101Intro. English Studies-lnterpretation9 units(1)(2)
76-170Advanced Exposition9 units(2)
76-238American Popular Music9 units(1)
76-243Contemporary Womens Fiction9 units(1)
76-244American Sports Cultures9 units(2)
76-265Survey of Forms: Poetry9 units(1)
76-290Discursive Practices9 units(1)
76-301Internship9 units(1)(2)
76-339Japanese Cinema 1945-Present9 units(2)
*76-739Japanese Cinema 1945-Present9 units(2)
*76-901Internship3 units(1)(2)
History79-102Western Civilization9 units(1)
79-120Development of American Society9 units(2)
79-124Industrial America9 units(1)(2)
79-215Dynamics of European Society9 units(1)
79-220Contemporary America in Film9 units(1)
79-221Urban History9 units(2)
79-222History of Advertising9 units(2)
79-262Women in the West9 units(1)
79-265Immigration&Ethnicity/Amer. History 9 units(2)
79-271Medicine and Society9 units(1)
79-275History and Modern Warfare9 units(2)
79-277Contemporary China9 units(2)
79-291Vietnam: Americas Lost War9 units(2)
Industrial70-121Financial Accounting9 units(1)Management70-311Organizational Behavior I9 units(1)
70-340Business Communications9 units(1)
70-371Production I9 units(1)
70-381Marketing I9 units(2)
70-391Finance I9 units(1)
70-422Cost Accounting9 units(2)
70-451Management Information Systems9 units(2)
70-491Finance II9 units(2)
Mathematics21-111Calculus I (H&SS)10 units(1)
21-112Calculus II (H&SS)10 units(1)(2)
21-121Calculus I10 units(1)(2)
21-122Calculus and Linear Algebra10 units(1)(2)
21-127Introduction to Modern Mathematics 9 units(1)(2)
21-228Discrete Mathematics9 units(1)(2)
21-241Linear Algebra9 units(1)
21-257Optimization for the Social Sciences 9 units(1)
21-259Calculus in Three Dimensions9 units(1)(2)
21-260Differential Equations9 units(1)(2)
21-484Applied Graph Theory9 units(1)
21-599Undergrad. Reading &Research9 units(1)
*21-620Real Analysis6 units(1)
*21-625Topics in Analysis: Numerical Anal.9 units(1)
Metallurgical27-312Materials III9 units(1&2)
Engineering27-322Processing I12 units(1&2)
and Materials27-350Industrial Projects Seminar9 units(1&2)
Science27-390Industrial Internship9 units(1&2)
CourseNumberSessions
DepartmentNumberCourse Titleof unitsOffered
Mechanical24-112Fluid Mechanics I10 units(1)Engineering24-121Thermodynamics I9 units(1)
Modern82-101/2 Elementary French I/ll12 units(1)Languages82-121/2 Elementary German I/ll12 units(1)
82-141/2 Elementary Spanish I/ll12 units(1)
82-161/2Elementary Italian I/ll12 units(1)
82-181Fundamental Latin I12 units(1)
82-191Elementary Russian I/ll12 units(1)
82-201Intermediate French I9 units(1)
82-202Intermediate French II9 units(1)
82-221Intermediate German I9 units(1)
82-222Intermediate German II9 units(1)
82-241Intermediate Spanish I9 units(1)
82-242Intermediate Spanish II9 units(1)
82-291Intermediate Russian I9 units(1)
82-301Adv. French Conversation & Comp.9 units(1)
82-415Studies in French Literature9 units(1)
82-435Studies in German Literature:9 units(1)
Deutsche Ledermacher
Philosophy80-100Philosophic Methods & Morals9 units(1)(2)
80-180Nature of Language9 units(1)
80-210Intro, to Logic (self-paced)9 units(1)(2)
80-242Conflict, Culture & Dispute Resol.9 units(1)
80-595Independent Study9 units(1)
Physics33-121Physics I: Mechanics10 units(1)(2)
33-122Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics10 units(1)(2)
33-123Physics III: Electricity & Magnetism 10 units(1)(2)
(All Physics courses are self-paced)1
Psychology85-101General Psychology (self-paced)9 units(1)
85-480Research Intern, in Clinical Psych.18 units:(1)(2)
Social and88-210C Programming Laboratory9 units(1)Decision Sciences;
School of*90-783Data Communications & Networks12 units(1&2)
Urban and*90-800Organizational Mgt: Theory/Practice 12 units(1&2)
Public Affairs*90-801Data Analysis for Managers12 units(1&2)
Masters of*90-802Computer Appl. for Public Mgrs.12 units(1&2)
Public*90-803Economic Prin. of Policy Analysis12 units(1&2)
Mangement*90-804Financial Analysis for Managers12 units(1&2)
*90-805Accounting Foundations6 units(1)
*90-806Computer Foundations6 units(1)
*90-810Leadership6 units(2)
*90-818Strategic Marketing I12 units(1&2)
*90-820Strategic Planning12 units(1&2)
*90-822Personnel Administration12 units(1&2)
*90-827Adv. Organizational Mgt.12 units(1&2)
*90-828Ethical issues in Management6 units(1)
*90-830Fin. Mgt. of Health Systems12 units(1&2)
*90-835Health Policy6 units(1)
*90-837Health Project Planning & Mgt.6 units(2)
*90-845Adv. Topics in Leadership6 units(2)
*90-846Adv. Topics in Ethics6 units(2)
*90-852Investment Analysis for Managers6 units(2)
*90-873Mgt. of Computers and Info. Systems12 units (1&2)
Statistics36-101Statistical Concepts9 units(1)(2)
with Computer Applications
36-209Probability and Applied Statistics9 units(1)(2)
for Management and Social Sciences I
36-210Probability and Applied Statistics9 units(1)(2)
for Management and Social Sciences II
36-211Probability and Applied Statistics9 units(1)(2)
for Physical Sciences and Engineering I
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics9 units(1)(2)
for Physical Sciences and Engineering II
36-217Prob. Theory & Random Process9 units(1)(2)
36-220Engineering Stats. & Quality Control 9 units(1)(2)
36-225Intro, to Probability and Statistics I9 units(1)(2)
36-226Intro, to Probability and Statistics II9 units(1)(2)
36-309Experimental Design for9 units(1)(2)
Behavioral and Social Sciences
36-325Probability & Mathematical Stats. I9 units(1)<2)
36-326Probability & Mathematical Stats. II9 units(1)(2)
PUl MgAiml mMUl6Aolm 9gi vUl u-gzl otmvl6 MgAimlm uil Mgyvutyl6 ty vUl $550 eA//li nytzliW
mtvw eMUl6Aol g9 agAimlmh PUl 6uvlm g9 vUl eA//li elmmtgym uil otmvl6 u-gzlh ny6li1iu6Auvl 
vAtvtgy tm B$QkAytv TQ Aytvm  $ Mil6tv3h PUl agAiml eMUl6Aol uomg Mgyvutym il1tmviuvtgy /uvlitW
uom uy6 9AivUli ty9gi/uvtgyh
PUl eA//li nytzlimtvw auvuog1 Htoo -l uzutou-ol gy S2ito $O uv gyl g9 mlzliuo ogMuvtgym gy 
Mu/2Am gAvmt6l g9 Duiyli ;uoo $$$s vUl )l1tmviui:m I99tMl TD; 0O$3s vUl eA//li evA6tlm 
I99tMl TD; $O3s gi Muoo 770Oh agAiml otmvty1m uil uzutou-ol 9ig/ vUl eA//li evA6tlm I99tMlh
Vil4)l1tmviuvtgy duw 9gi fyigoo/lyv -w ruot tm S2ito $Ch Soo Muy6t6uvlm /Amv il1tmvli 9gi mA/W
/li MgAimlHgi( Amty1 vUl $550 )l1tmviuvogyS66dig2 cgi/h NIPf )l1tmviuvtgy /uvlituom 9gi 
MgAimlm vu(ty1 2ouMl 6Aity1 eA//li elmmtgym Iyl uy6 Sto uil 6Al ty vUl eA//li evA6tlm 
I99tMl ruw 7s$550h PUl g99lity1 g9 mA//li MgAimlHgi( Gm 6l2ly6lyv A2gy mA99tMtlyv MgAiml 
lyigoo/lyvmh Iyow )l1tmviuvtgy cgi/m ilMltzl6 -w vUl il1tmviuvtgy 6lu6otyl Htoo -l MgAyvl6h

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Budgetary confusion 
smacks of unconcern
Last Tuesdays Student Sen
ate budget hearings, where Sen
ate decided on Activities Fee al
locations to student groups, were 
disastrous. Organizations were 
confused by the proceedings and 
offended by some Senators com
ments. Senate was generally 
adversarial in response to com
ments from the audience. The 
body was particularly harsh to
ward organizations who were 
not present to defend their bud
gets. The hearings exemplified 
the difficulties Senate has with 
constructive criticism and prob
lem solving.
Apparently, few student 
groups have a complete under
standing of the budget hearings 
or of how to prepare an initial 
budget. Senate needs to realize 
that organizations arent neces
sarily aware of their funding 
status, or how it concerns their 
budgets. The Funding and Rec
ognition committee (F&R) needs 
to guide organizations through 
the process and give them more 
help than a few office hours held 
the afternoon of the meeting.
The lack of representation at 
the meetingindicates that orga
nizations were unaware either 
of the meeting or its purpose, 
not necessarily that they didnt 
care, as many Senators as
sumed. We doubt groups would 
have skipped the meetingif they 
had known its importance. The 
ad in The Tartan concerning the 
budgets was not eye-catching 
and didnt make the date or time 
of the meeting prominent. It also 
didnt stress that groups should 
send a representative.
Particularly, people may not 
have been aware that the bud
gets presented by F&R were not 
final; Senate, as a whole, must 
vote on the budget package, and 
it inevitably changes some of 
the budgets  with or without 
input from the organizations 
affected.
To mitigate the confusion, F&R 
should send letters out to the 
organizations approximately a 
week before the full Senate bud
get hearing to remind them of 
the purpose and importance of 
the meeting. Senate cannot rely 
on text-heavy ads in The Tartan 
or memories of a notice sent two 
months in advance.
The letter should include a 
copy of the organizations bud
get as it will be presented to 
Senate, reasons for any changes, 
and a clear statement that the 
budget can be further adjusted 
during the hearing. Senate 
should require each group to 
send a representative who 
knows the details of its budget, 
and must stress the possible 
implications of the hearings to 
each organization.
Most groups seem to have poor 
relationships with F&R. Groups 
go into the hearings fighting for 
money; F&R gives the impres
sion that its looking for as many 
reasons as possible not to give it 
to them. Obviously funding must 
be limited so that there is enough 
money to go around, but F&R 
needs to back up its decisions 
with policy, precedence, and 
numbers.
Some Senators behaved atro
ciously during the meeting, and
their actions prove that Senate 
needs to review itself, its ethics, 
its goals, and its methods of 
reaching them.
When reviewing its own bud
get, Senate discussed retreats 
at length. Notably, there was an 
absence of discussion about the 
fact that Senate itself subsidizes 
its entire budget. Despite the 
fact that many Senators were 
harping all night about how or
ganizations need to raise some 
money and not rely solely on the 
Activities Fee, no Senators even 
asked if Senate should raise 
some of its own funds.
The response Senator Joshua 
Knauer (H&SS) gave when a 
member of the audience asked 
why Senate does no fundraising, 
that Senate could just raise the 
Activities Fee because thats 
where Senate gets its money, 
did not answer the question 
posed, was rude, and only served 
to make Senate look more ri
diculous. Contrary to what 
Knauer seems to believe, the 
Activities Fee is not Senates 
money, but the students; Sen
ate is merely the instrument by 
which the Fee is distributed to 
serve the needs of the student 
body.
The lack of effective checks 
and balances on Student Senate 
is troublesome, and was evident 
as Senate alone reviewed its own 
budget. StudentBody President
elect Natalie Gesmond, in her 
plans to reconstruct Student 
Government, must add checks 
and balances on Senate, and 
exercise the one check that ex
ists  the presidents veto 
power. As the situation stands, 
Senate does whatever it wants, 
and no one can do anything about 
it.
A case in point is the comment 
Senator Michael Loomis (GSIA) 
made that Senate can refuse to 
fund a group for having the 
letter Q in its name. Even 
though Loomis was making a 
point, his flippant comment did 
nothing to lend credence to his 
opinion. Loomis made Senate 
once again seem arbitrary and 
unresponsive to the student 
body.
Knauer and Loomiss displays 
are examples of a general atti
tude that seems to pervade Sen
ate. As a body, Senate does not 
display concern or consideration 
for individual students.
When audience members 
speak to criticize Senate, some 
Senators roll their eyes. Such a 
lack of professionalism has no 
place in a governing body. Sena
tors must stop giving the im
pression that they dont give a 
damn about what students want 
from government.
Senate has to realize that its 
prime responsibility is to the 
students of CMU. We do not 
elect our Senators to sit at their 
tables and make snide com
ments when we ask for consid
eration.
Senate must be more recep
tive to criticism and more ap
proachable, less antagonistic. 
Senators: dont forget your re
sponsibility to serve the stu
dents. Any government that does 
not meet the needs of its con
stituents is pointless.
Pro-life supporter argues 
with columinsts logic
Editor:In response to Rich Robinsons column [TV ads mislead viewers on adoption,3/16], I would like to explain the underlyinglogic behind the pro-life movement. For starters, our logic is not based on a religious conviction, rather it incorporates what science has taught us about human life and what history has taught us about the needs of a nation to survive.Robinson states, Science has proven that it [abortion] is not killing. This inaccuracy is prevalent among the proabortion movement. Science is system- ized knowledge derived from observation. Observations of the sperm and the egg tell us that a dramatic change occurs when the two unite to form a complete human cell. After this point there is no other defining change to this tiny human being. The babys life is now in a continuum with only oxygen and nutrition being added by the babys mother. However, if Robinson would care to enlighten the scientific community by providing new scientific evidence which proves that human life begins at another point (two months, eight months, or one year after birth), I ask him to present it now.Robinson further states that the baby in the first trimester is nothing but a bundle of cells. This materialistic outlook rejects that human life is a continuum. Using his argument, we can assign an arbitrary date at which we should begin to recognize human life. For example, I could easily say that babies under two are nothing but worthless bundles of cells. Wouldnt it be easier to dispose of defective babies once we have seen them behave for a while?Robinson should remember that both blacks and Jews were not considered human beings at one point in history. He should realize that the argument for abortion makes the same mistake.
Pat Mooney Sophomore, H&SS
Anti-abortion supporter 
clarifies movement views
Editor:Since Rich Robinson has now allied himself with the proabortion movement by helping to spread the numerous falsehoods told about the pro-life movement [TV ads mislead viewers on adoption, 3/16], perhaps he would care to learn the real arguments against abortion. The intent of this letter is to expose one of the true horrors of abortion, a side Robinson failed to mention in his article, the effects on the mother.Abortion is more than the killing of a baby, it is the rejection of nature, motherhood and fatherhood, and the family. There can be no doubt that many mothers who have aborted have suffered an untold amount of emotional trauma after having an abortion.An interview in the August 3, 1983 edition of The Washington Times with
Nancyjo Mann, the founder of Women Exploited By Abortion (WEBA), details the other numerous after effects of abortion. The article states, One psychological effect we see almost all the time is guilt. Others are suicidal impulses, a sense of loss, of unful- fillment. Mourning, regret and remorse. Withdrawal, loss of confidence in deci- sion-making capabilities.... Lowering of self esteem. Preoccupation with death. Hostilities, self destructive behavior, anger and rage. You can lose your temper very quickly. A despair, helplessness, desire to remember the death date.... You remember these dates very strongly.The article continues with more psychological effects, Lack of desire to enter into a relationship with a partner, loss of interest in sex, an inability to forgive self, feeling of dehumanization, nightmares, seizures and tremors, frustrations, feelings of being exploited. And child abuse. We see a lot of child abuse.Perhaps Robinson should reconsider his statement that, If pregnant women are not given the choice to have an abortion, they are faced with the disintegration of their lives. It is clear that abortion disintegrates the lives of the baby and the mother. Adoption enhances the lives of the baby, the adoptive parents, and the birth mother.
Scott White Freshman, CIT
Student makes observa
tions on voting actions
Editor:The recent Student Senate resolution calling for the removal of ROTC from CMU has provoked a strong debate about democracy on this campus, and some people worry whether or not Student Senate has listened to the student bodys opinion in the referendum. A few of the people who wanted to banish flag burning on this campus two years ago are now crying about dictatorship and oppression; apparently the irony doesnt bother them.Apparently, only 8 percent of all students voted last fall in Student Senate elections. In the recent referendum, 22.7 percent voted. Most of the students who made up this 22.7 percent obviously did not vote in the Student Senate elections; evidently they gave up their right to be represented by Student Senate and did not care to influence who sits on Senate. Successful politicians will heed the ideas of those who actually vote in elections and pay less attention to those who dont vote. Most of the 22.7 percent who turned down the resolution have shown a pattern of not voting.Of course, this issue could have a durable effect on the 22.7 percent who voted in the referendum. Perhaps they will start taking an interest in campus politics and begin voting in elections, and they certainly may remove the senators who support the resolution. If that happens, then the students of CMU will have begun a participation in democracy not seen in years on this campus. Either way, democracy will pre
vail and Senate will be filled by those with a long-lasting commitment to participation in democracy. To cry dictatorship when elections are held regularly and quite often (I think every year) is a spurious argument.Ideally, Senatemade an opinion based on what policy would reduce the number of those discriminated against in the long run. Perhaps if nobody on campus in America could get a ROTC scholarship for a few years, then the DoD will be spurred to admit gays years before they would have otherwise. If the DoD opened up to homosexuals quickly enough, the net result would be fewer people wrongly denied ROTC scholarships. Or perhaps not. This issue will not die for some time. Those who care that thousands of Americans are denied from patriotically serving their country on a full time basis should decide on the best method to remove discrimination from our armed forces, and then press forward with their goals.
Don Kardos Senior, Mathematics
Sorority member takes is
sue with Sing coverage
Editor:I have a serious concern and believe that this is the only way to try to remedy it. This letter is in response to the Greek Sing reviews that appeared in the March 16 Tartan [Greek Sing wows audience with colorful performances,4/16], Specifically, I am referring to Chi Omegas review.Greek Sing is a charity event, and Greeks participate in it because its fun and makes us feel good to be doing something for the community. Putting on a Broadway show is not the purpose of it. All of the organizations work very hard and put a lot of effort into performing a good show. Besides the fun, the spirit of competition drives us to take our performance seriously.Sure, we didnt place, but we put on a good show. We were well received by the audience, and I felt good about what I had done  until I read the review. There was a very negative tone to the review that appeared to be purposefully degrading. Who gives you the right to cause me to change the opinion I hold of myself?The other reviews were simply that reviews. There was no mention of errors that were made simply because of human error, and no personal slams were made, other than in ours. In one review The Tartan even contributed the lack of projection to nervousness. Why didnt we receive the same benefit of the doubt? I was proud of our performance and feel slighted by the attack made by The Tartan. What wasnt The Tartans purpose when they conducted such a malicious attack on our house? People who were not able to attend assumed that The Tartan accurately reported the show. Therefore, this review misrepresented our performance.I was very disturbed and hurt by what I read and the fact that The Tartan sees what they wrote as simply a review upsets me even further. Was the reviewer looking at our show objecVoluml mll RfPPf)es 2u1l &
- O:
Letter to the Editor
Letter to the Editor
Oi
Letter to l)u Editor
Letter to the Editor
Letter to the Editor
on
Letter to the Editer
Letter to the Editor

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 19927
Strike leaves pets as transportation
' iBaof uglofBny
Before the recent PAT bus strike, buses were always evil things to me.They were the things I always got stuck behind while driving to campus. On the occasional day I had to actually make use of public transit, they were overcrowded with the most unusual people on the face of the earth. That, and they religiously showed up late.Hard to believe Id ever miss them, but I do. As one of the few, the proud, the commuters, Ive watched my existence become increasingly muddled in the last three weeks. I find myself burn
ing random household objects as offerings to the Gods of Mass Transit, hoping it will appease them and get buses back on the road.I wish I could pretend I was concerned about my academic slippage  after all, the bus strike has caused me to miss three or four complete days of classbut lets be serious. With only a month left in my academic career, skipping classes has become standard operating procedure.The problem is more with the Achilles heel this strike has revealed.Wheneverthe car wasnt available, I used to have the safety net of public transit. Now when Im strapped for transportation, I have to beg and plead just like everyone else. Im up to my ears in favors to other people with
cars, and its probably going to get worse.But why am I having such trouble getting that broken- down car?Its all because of the McDonald Brothers War of the Car. Fueled by the urgency of the bus strike, my older sibling and I have started a truly cut-throat battle for vehicular superiority.My brother and I have always had an adversarial relationship when it came to sharing the car. Standard brotherly loveincluded running the gas tank as low as possible so that the other one would have to pay to refill it, depleting the supply of parking meter change, and swiping all the good tapes. But that was kid stuff compared to our strike-time tactics.Now the really dirty pool starts. Since our schedules dont
mesh very well, every day becomes a winner-take-all race to see who can make it out of the house first.The winner is mobile for the day, while the loser gets to stay home and watch bad television. Being a rather sound sleeper, I usually end up losing this particular game.Even on the few days that Jon and I call truce and schedule in advance, things are hectic. Usually one or the other of us ends up waiting for a couple of hours while the other goes to class. While it was still snowing, I even considered hooking our dog, Sam, up to a sled to get to campus. Unfortunately, I doubt that cocker spaniels get very good mileage.All this trouble just because of a bus strike. Being megaloma- niacal at heart, I dont care about
the right and wrong of the situation; I just want my 61B back.The worst thing about all of this is that, when the bus drivers do go back to work, PAT fares will almost surely be higher.A friend of the family who works for the city told me that unions almost always get what they want when they go to third- party arbitration.This means a pay raise, which will no doubt mean yet another rate hike.Hmm. No buses at all, or buses that cost so much that youd rather walk. Maybe I will hook Sam up to the sled.
Jason McDonald is a senior 
IM major who is considering 
driving a bus for a living so he 
can someday hold the city hos
tage, too.Freedom of press endangered by many forces
lBAey cHfs
It is often said that knowledge is power. But there is a growing trend in this country  a war to censor the spread of some types of knowledge.One of the prime movers in this war is the religious right  people who are trying to legislate morality. Several years ago, Reverend Donald Wildmon was quite disgusted by what he saw on TV. Instead of shrugging his shoulders and turning the TV off, he decided to campaign against the offending programs. Some of the programs he dislikes areALF, Cheers, High
way to Heaven, 60 Minutes, LA Law, 
Golden Girls, Mr. Belvedere, and Father 
Dowling Mysteries. He claims these shows are offensive, some obscene, and that they will corrupt our youth into who- knows-what perversity.The scary part is how successful hes been at gaining attention. He claims to be advocating family values, but in reality hes campaigning to impose his morality on you. And there are many others like him, some acting in the government.The National Obscenity Enforcement Unit (NOEU) harassed a Connecticut- based movie distributor which sold X- rated movies. The firm was actively threatened with enormous legal defense
fees unless it capitulated. During non- search-warranted raids, employees were harassed and questioned without an attorney present  they were told they could not refuse these questionings. Desks and purses were opened, and personal materials were seized. In pressing the case, NOEU used the fact that people in Virginia, North Carolina, and Alabama (places where the firm had sold movies) found the films to violate their local community standards.Yet a North Carolina jury acquitted the firm in five minutes, showing how ludicrous the charges actually were.This still sets a dangerous precedent. It means that the most repressive community standards can be used in the most liberal of places.If a film offends in Salt Lake City, then by God, shut it down in Pittsburgh! If this persecution happens now, what will happen if S. 1521, the Pornography Victims Compensation Act, is passed?This bill would allow victims to sue the authors, publishers, and distributors of any material deemed to have provoked a criminal offenders actions. Beyond the legal culpability problems of removing the perpetrators responsibility by turning him or her into a pomography-ma- nipulated robot, there is the hidden aim of closing down the sources of these materials by threatening their pocketbooks. This is the real intent of the law  to shut down these expressions which some
deem morally offensive.Nobody is immune. Library copies of 
Playboy have been protested by many religious righters. Catcher in the Rye, the archetypical defiance-of-authority story, is often the number one book on hit lists  along with 1984, The Color Purple, and many other books which these censors believe to promote whatever evil they are obsessed with. Remember the furor over the Mapplethorpe photographs? The pressure on artists to conform is still there.There is also economic censorship which investigative reporters are now feeling. As reported in the Fall 1990 
Investigative Reporters and Editors Jour
nal, Stories are being killed... watered- down ... [and] not even attempted because ... theyll never make it on the air.For example, real estate advertising accounts for 18.5 percent of all newspaper classified ads, yet rarely will a paper assign a tough reporter to this beat. A 
Washington Journalism Review survey of 42 real estate editors found that al
most half had their superiors prohibit critical coverage for fear of offending advertisers!This is especially frightening since housing is the average familys biggest investment.Or consider the Gannett newspaper chain. It sent a memo to its editors suggesting that they emphasize coverage of trends and sales, while lessening coverage of local government, so as to boost circulation and, one presumes, advertising revenue.What of Newsweek, whose February 1988 cover story What You Should Know About Heart Attacks had no references to smoking hazards.Or the Time representative who said, Time... has a lot of cigarette advertising. Do you carry material thats insulting to your advertiser? What about The New 
Republic editor who killed a story on the ill effects of smoking fearing massive losses of advertising revenue. These are journalistic ethics violations of the first magnitude.There are many people who want to censor your access to informationsome because they want to impose their morality on you, others for more mundane, financially manipulative reasons.Take action, speak up, or before you know it everything you read, every movie you see, and every song you hear will be sanitized.The examples Ive given are the tip of the iceberg, and come from magazines like Playboy, Free Inquiry, and In These 
Times.If the censors had their way just five years ago, I wouldnt even have had the knowledge to write this. And that should frighten you all.
David Hunt is a graduate student in 
mechanical engineering.
Letters to the Editor
RfPPf)es 9ig/ 2u1l 6tively, or was it just the cool thing to do to give Chi Omega a hard time? Is being treated the same as the rest of the Greek population too much to ask for from our school paper that strongly influences the campus views? I think not.
Carla Fix Junior, IMH
Review of Greek Sing 
attracts criticism
Tax loopholes offer 
answer to deficit
Editor:Budget deficits, increases in taxes, cuts in spending, read my lips
on
Letter to the Editor
onEditor:I am very disappointed 
in The Tartan Letter tO
GrVeeekgseingf fS Editor
The entire article is unnecessarily critical and unfair to almost everyone who participated. Comments like, couldnt they have looked a little less thrown together, a nice change of pace from the often tuneless voices wed been subjected to ..., the sets ... were not too special ... the sisters and pledges tried hard ... but were not particularly impressive, and better luck next year, do not reflect the spirit of Greek Sing and are completely unnecessary. Greek sing is a charity event (an important fact The Tartan failed to include), not a Broadway show. Everyone involved put forth a tremendous effort and deserves a lot of credit for making this years Greek Sing better than ever.
Heather Rae Rippman Sophomore, H&SS
(broken promises), are the maxi slogans of the day. Meanwhile the hard decisions are not being made! Those running for President and Congress are holding America hostage while the diatribe continues.Defining the formula for restoring economic sanity to our system is not all that difficult. The apparent impossible task is implementation due to a gross lack of leadership and true sense of caring by Congress that has disappeared.Consider this: The federal government borrows one dollar in every four that it spends. The interest alone on the federal debt represents 15 percent of all federal spending, and nearly 50 percent of the GNP.We are speaking of debt service only. Not one cent of that payment goes toward reducing the debt.The current federal tax code covers more than 4000 pages, and includes some 200 major personal and business loopholes resulting in over $350 billion in lost revenue annually. There are over 90,000 profitable businesses not now paying income taxes due to these loopholes.Compare the lost revenue ($350 billion) with the yearly deficit ($400 billion). Kind of says it all!
The ideal taxing system would have six principles:1. Taxes would produce only that revenue which is necessary for the government to function efficiently and effectively;2. Treats all in a fair manner;3. Offers the least discomfort for the greatest number of taxpayers;4. Offers the least amount of complications;5. Encourages savings and development of equity in the private market;6. Promotes economic growth and encourages business decisions to be based on economics, not tax gimmicks. Our present system fails in all of the above categories.Targeting tax and spending reforms over the next 3 years with, say, a ratio of 25 percent of the deficit being resolved by spending cuts, and 75 percent from new revenue (not tax rate increases) from the erosion of loopholes gradually phased out would send the proper signals that we are serious of winning the war for economic recovery. New revenue should be dedicated to reducing the deficit and national debt, and not a penny for new spending.Erstwhile opponents will come to realize, in the long run, this kind of reform movement will build a stronger and expanding economy where all will benefit, and not just a few as has been the case.Let the candidates hear your voice.
R. Dan Ritchie Riverdale, MD
Public works remedy 
economic woes
onEditor:Marylands Governor,wiiiiam Don- Letter toaid Schaefer, has done it Ithe Editor
again!He has plotted three noble goals with a single stroke of a pen. To wit: Addressing our deteriorated inner-structure (roads and bridges); putting people back to work; and fueling the engines for economic recovery in Maryland.He has done this by mandating the acceleration of contracts for public works already appropriated  over $80 million  and seeking necessary local legislation to qualify for matching funds over the next six years  over $2 billion  from the recently passed federal legislation, the Inter-modal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act.The Inter-modal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act could provide over $150 billion to all the states, resulting in over 600,000 new jobs this year, and over 4 million during the life of the bill.Maryland and our nation have billions of dollars worth of long overdue public works needs plus the need for new schools and hospitals have yet to be addressed.When people go back to work, they up-grade their standard of living (by spending for) new apartments, home ownership, autos, trucks, clothes, etc.Home building and the automotive industries are the bedrock of our nations economy.Consider just a few of the industries that support housing and autos: lumber, cement, masonry, steel, glass, rubber, plastics, heavy equipment, copper, sheet-metal, die casting, aluminum, furniture, trucking, auto repair shops and heating, air- conditioning, plumbing, and electrical manufacturers and vendors.Thousands of small and medium size businesses make up this support base.Now consider the millions of more unemployed that can go back to work due to the indirect impact.Many contractors that have remained apart from public works in the past might well consider diversifying into this growing market.There are many experienced mechanics, laborers, superintendants, and project managers now out of work that, when brought on board, can bring instant experience to an otherwise unqualified company.The other states should follow Schaefers example of matching available local dollars with the federal program and cutting through the red tape to accelerate getting people back to work ... now!We need someone at the helm in Washington that understands the needs of labor and coordinates the proper mix of economic revitalization with regional, state, and local needs.
R. Dan Ritchie Riverdale, MD
THETARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief................Heidi Hoover
Managing Editor............M.K. Rodgers
Business Mgr...........Timothy S. Blass
News Editor.............Brendan M'Feely
Sports Editor.................Tracy Hayes
Features Editor..............Amy Potthast
Diversions Editor..........Marni Borek
Calendar Editor.......Tara M. Seman
Magazine Editor.....Stephen Glicker
Dossier Literary Ed. .Tamara Liebert 
Dossier Design Editor ...Hans Wang
Art Editor............................Daniel Frey
Photo Editor....................Josh Freeman
Production Mgr...................Tina L. Urso
Copy Manager..........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr.............Chad McDaniel
Asst. Business Mgr.Sharyn Rotunno 
Asst. News Editor...Jason McDonald 
Asst. Forum Editor ....Richard Quinn 
Asst. Sports Editor ....Robby Findler
Asst Features Editor........Laura Palanker
Asst Diversions Ed.............Aaron Jenkins
Asst Art Editors...........Samuel Greenfield
Barbara Reyes
Photo Staff Manager..........Hsin-I Chow
Asst Production Mgrs......Katie Swango
Derek Wahila 
Darkroom Manager ..Cesar Sanchez
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Megan Dietz, Tad 
Dockstader, Nathan Fullerton, Ellen 
Hendrickson, Mark Hillier, Dexter 
Kobayashi, Thomas Nichols, Alim Ray, 
Ignatius Sasmita, Rhonda Struminger
Senior Staff 
Waseem Hussain, Rich Robinson, 
Mike Shapiro, Randy Udavcak, A. 
Franklin Wheeler
Staffwriters 
Nicole Allen, Sara Barton, Jeff Basista, 
Marni Blake, Matt Bushey, Alison 
Carter, Chris Cenkner, Trinette Chan
dler, Michael Colaianne, Andrew 
Cosentino, Daryl Davis, Bob Dixon, 
Dan Gallagher, Sean Goller, Erin 
Grunzke, David Hunt, Lubomlr 
Kochanskyij, Mike Kunsmann, Farron 
Levy, Chris Maples, Dave Martin, Corri 
Metz, Trupti Patel, Abby Schiff, Kelly 
Sterling, Wendy Tuggle, Christian 
Restifo, Tricia Williams, Jason Wyse, 
Mary Yee, Leslie Zubaty 
Art
Jeff Dorsey, Ramsey Hong, Roy H uang
Comics
Michael Beard, Julian Hollingshead, 
Matt Goldberg, Jonathan Lyness, Seth 
Magnum, Craig Mrusek, Drew Olbrich, 
Scott Pakin, Andrew Plotkin, Elliott 
Schiff, Patrick Soo Hoo, Ken Tanaka, 
Jen Thorson, Nick Wardigo
Photo
Debbie Bauer, Kevin Chen, David 
Docktor, Diane Keen, Seth 
Redmore
Darkroom 
Augustine Kuo, Jessica Miller, Erik 
Ogan
Production 
Kishor K. Rao
Design 
Matt Adler, Brian StewartCopy
Erin Bailey, Susan R. Baker, Molly 
Dalkiewicz, Benjamin Griffin, Angela 
Keslar, Katherine Lestock, Bill Lucier, 
Larkin Rogers, Chanda Sanders, 
Patricia Williams
Business
Edward Bella
Junior Staff 
Mark Alberts, J. Anthony, Tom 
Bunyavanich, Elizabeth Chambers, 
Franklin Chang, Veronica Connolly, 
Tony DeRosa, Germain DeSeve, John 
Funge, Albert Hong, John Jantos, 
Jeannie Kim, Tracy Kroop, Kristin 
Lepage, Paolo V. Malabuyo, Shari 
Morgan, Paul Platosh, Chris Reddick, 
Cathy Saum, Kayt Sukel, Oliver Wil
liams, Usa Wilson
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper pub
lished by students during the fall and spring semes
ters, at no cost to members of the University 
community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. The editorials appear
ing at the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Col
umns and political cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for publica
tion mustbe signed and include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. Tho Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 350 words. Tho Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. 
Copyright  1992 by The Tartan. The Tartan edito
rial board reserves the right to withhold from publi
cation any copy it deems unfit for publication. 
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
17 percent funded by the Activities Fee 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 1992
A PERSONS
OPINION
Spring Carnival is only a 
few days away. There are 
many activities that go on 
during Carnival like booth, 
buggy, and various other 
types of entertainment. Be
sides the planned events, 
many people have Carnival 
rituals and activities of their 
own. What are you look
ing forward to doing dur
ing Spring Carnival this 
year?
Roger WalburnFreshmanCIT
Im looking forward to seeing They Might Be Giants.
Ulysses Wu SeniorIM/Economics
I am looking forward to relaxing. I used to push buggy, but I sort of retired. Im a senior, so Im done with that. I just want to relax. Im tired of this year. Im almost done.
Allan B ourdius JuniorApplied History
Looking forward to just taking it easy during Carnival because Im going to be spending a lot of time building booth basically ... Take it easy, have a good time, relax, sleep, and go to the buggy race.
Adam CardoneFreshmanDrama
During Carnival weekend, Ill see the band They Might Be Giants, smoke a few Js, and go see them. Thatll be fun ... and ride the rides.
Hs!n-I Chow/Photo Staff Manager
Dawn Nebelkopf Sophomore Political Science
Tm gonna be in the show [Scotch N Soda] the whole time, so the only thing Im looking forward to is getting out of the ballroom. I want you to come see the show.
Justice reforms alter appeal process
hdEeaseBf u 7Rasepo
The justice system of the United States is a prime example of Newtons second law of motion. Objects at rest tend to stay at rest, and objects in motion tend to keep moving. What I mean by this is the following. First, the justice system is a slow monolith, often endlessly crushing and grinding people in its attempt to deal with the millions of cases without the resources to do it. Second, change comes to the justice system only with a great deal of litigation, debate, and endless strife.For these reasons, I used to hate people who appealed every decision, for even the smallest technicality. While you do have the right to an appeal, appealing for a mistrial because a cop got a little excited and twisted your arm a little too much is a waste of time and resources. In short, it is an abuse of the system. I would often read about criminals making these appeals, and my blood would boil. They are going to abuse the system so much, I used to think, that theres going to be a backlash and innocent people are going to be jailed or even sentenced to death.Well, my forboding proved true. I had read the reports about the Supreme Court making appeals more difficult,
and I was glad. Sort of. I was glad until I read the current edition of Newsweek and found out how the system is literally playing life and death with a man who may very well be innocent.Ten years ago, Roger Coleman was convicted of the murder of Wendy McCoy in Grundy, Virginia. She was raped, her throat was slit, and she was stabbed in the chest. After a three-day trial, Coleman was convicted and sentenced to death. He tried to appeal through the state but lost. He was denied a federal court appeal, because his lawyers were one day late in filing. In other words, a man sentenced to death 
was denied an appeal because his law
yers, not he, filed 24 hours late.The denial is a frightening situation in and of itself. Whats worse, however, is that recent Supreme Court rulings have made appeals based on new evidence much harder to acquire. The high court did agree to hear the case of Leonel Herrera, convicted of killing two police officers, but the Justices were one vote short of the number needed for a stay of execution. In other words, you can get an appeal, but if your execution date is before the appeal date, you might still be put to death. Luckily, a Texas state court had the wisdom and common sense to grant a stay of execution. However, things are not that great for Herrera. Hes set to be executed in April when his court date is in October. He claims there is evidence that his brother, who died in 1984, confessed to
the killings.Of course, I would have little sympathy for Coleman if his appeal were based on some obscure technicality. However, there is a good deal of new evidence that casts more than a reasonable doubt on his guilt. Last year, Teresa Horn came forward with an affidavit stating that another man, Donney Ramey, confessed to her that
he was the one who killed McCoy. She also said that Ramey attempted to rape her four years earlier. Horn participated in an interview, but was later found dead due to drug overdose. Authorities dont believe there was foul play, but I find the timing of it all hard to swallow.Regardless of the fact that Horns affidavit may not be admissible in court because she cannot be cross-examined, the conviction of Coleman itself rests on sh,aky evidence. According to 
Newsweek, Colemans three-inch knife was supposedly the murder weapon, but there were two four-inch-deep stab wounds in McCoys body. There was no forced entry, but how does this explain the fact that there was a pry mark on
McCoys front door? Coleman was a likely suspect, because he was the only person who could get into the house.Coleman was linked to McCoy via blood samples taken from her body, but a good number of people in Grundy have the same blood type as Coleman. The semen of two different men was found in McCoys vagina, and an informant confessed that he made up
Colemans confession to him that Coleman was responsible for McCoys death.I dont know about you, but all this sounds like a great deal like circumstantial evidence. Even if a case could be made that no appeal should be allowed because of the nature of the evidence, the fact that someone might have known who the real killer is should be grounds for a retrial. Meanwhile, Coleman is waiting. His date of execution is May 20, and so far, no one has granted any stay of execution. In a little over a month, its possible that an innocent man may be sent to his death.Although I support the death penalty, I think the Supreme Court is playing a dangerous game with the lives of
people. First, the admission of new evidence that may exonerate a convicted person or prove previous evidence wrong must be grounds for an appeal  without exception. Convicts must be allowed an appeal even if their lawyers file late. Although there exists the possibility that some people may use this idea to abuse the system, we cannot punish convicts or deny them their rights simply because their lawyers failed to perform their duties.Lastly, we must do away with things like the Virginia state law that says new evidence for an appeal must be brought forward within 21 days of conviction. Statutes of limitation should exist for prosecutions, not appeals. I should not have to go to jail or my death, because an appeal was denied on the account of someone elses being afraid to speak up within a short period of time.There is an old adage that says it is better that ten guilty men go free than for one innocent man to go to jail. While you can at least attempt to compensate someone for years spent in jail for a wrong conviction, it is impossible to bring back the dead. The Supreme Court should realize that its current set of decisions is setting the scene for the death of innocent people. Sooner or later, it will be called to answer for its actions.
Christian M. Restifo is a junior chemi
cal engineering major.
...it is better that ten guilty men go free 
than for one innocent man to go to jail... 
[and the] current set of decisions is setting 
the scene for the death of innocent people.
Celebrate Tradition
a paifourClass Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime, when 
theyre preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. 
Sports, academics, degrees, years of graduation 
and custom school designs can all be captured in 
your Balfour Class Ring.. .a tradition of 
excellence since 1931!
Order yours on:
HHk / Balfour*
Thursday, April 9 10 am to 4 pm Baker Hall
Friday, April 10 10 am to 4 pm Carnegie Shop
No one remembersinso many ways.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Shootout brings competition
PRESS PASS
by Jason McDonald
Dont touch 
that dial
Spring break was just awful this year. Not only did my plan to go to Penn State fall through, but I ended up getting sick. With no means of leaving the house, I amused myself in the only way possible ... televised sports.There were, of course, some bright spots on the dial. The NCAA tournament (mens and womens) and spring training baseball provided several hours of pleasant diversion. Until the NHL strike, I was enjoying the fact that my cable company finally rolled over and gave us access to SportsChannel, which owns the rights to NHL games. But the rest....First of all, Wrestlemania VIII is upon us. I know this is the loosest application of the word sport, but the amount of hype for the event made it stick in my head as much as any real sport. Not that we ever needed the first seven Wrestlemanias, but some morons are willing to pay for this stuff. I guess P.T. Bamum was right.Equally fascinating, if only slightly more legitimate, is the lumbeijack contest. Some smart exec at ESPN said, Ive got a great idea for a sport!Lets take twenty guys with chain saws and flannel shirts, and let them do their thing for money. Not only was this character not fired, but was probably promoted to vice- president on the spot.I also watched my first televised game of pool. It was refreshing because I never thought any sport could be rendered in more boring fashion than bowling and golf.I was wrong  pool on TV is about as exciting as watching paint dry. Sorry, but two lethargic fat men in bad suits dont make for high drama unless theyre armed with pistols.There was also sailing galore. Sailing isnt that bad a sport; they just need a lot more camera angles. Either youre going to be seeing the on-boat view or the overhead shot.Also, theres no crowd shots to break the action.If you were having fun in the sun somewhere, you also missed Australian rules football, a staple in the early days of ESPN. For those who have never seen the sport, its like someone asked humans to simulate a pit bull attack. You get the feeling the ball was just put in the game by accident.At least mildly related to sports, HBO offered up its annual Making of the Sports 
Illustrated Swimsuit Issue show, where they force-feed us shots of Kathy Ireland reading Kierkegaard (while in swimsuit, of course) to show the depth of her soul. Inevitably, the only thing HBO proves is that they have as much good taste as bread mold. Especially the night they made it their 8 pm prime-time feature.There was more to see, but most of it didnt leave much an impression. Im just going to make sure I have plenty of baseball videotaped so I dont have to watch any pool next time Im home sick.
Tartan Assistant News 
Editor Jason McDonald is a 
senior IM major.
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Staff Writer
Carnegie Mellon University played hosttonine other lacrosse teams for the second annual Pittsburgh Lacrosse Shootout last weekend. The field of competition came from all over. CMU, the University of Pittsburgh, and the Pittsburgh Lacrosse Club (PLC) were the local teams at the tournament. Also present were the University of Michigan, the University of Buffalo, Fordham University, Bowling Green, Ohio State University, Virginia Tech, and John Carroll University. The Pittsburgh Lacrosse Club won the Shootout last year and were looking to repeat. But, Buffalo and Pitt werent there just to sit and watch.The tournament began at Pitt Stadium Friday evening, with co-host Pitt taking on John Carroll. Pitt took the game easily, 11-2. Two games followed at Pitt Stadium. Bowling Greenlost to the Pittsburgh Lacrosse Club 9-1 and Fordham proved their worth by overpowering Virginia Tech 12-3.At the Gesling Stadium tournament opener, CMU hosted the University of Michigan in cold and breezy weather. The game was tight throughout the first half. The first quarter ended with Michigan up 1-0. In the second quarter, with less than two minutes before halflime, Chris Flynn made a pass to senior Todd Bred- benner, who scored the tying goal.The third quarter, however, belonged to Michigan. The Wolverines scored four goals before the quarters end, and added one more early in the fourth for a 6 1 victory.Buffalo took on Ohio State afelytgim ;A6mgy Pt99uyw uy6 evlzl
terward, and won handily 16-6.The games began again early Saturday morning at Gesling, with PLC beating John Carroll 14-1. Buffalo smashed Bowling Green 18-1. CMU encountered Fordham in the third Gesling game. CMU jumped ahead early with a goal from John Seekings, but Fordham countered and took a 21 lead going into the second quarter. Seekings showed his face again with an assist to graduate student Bayard Johnson for the tying goal. But Fordham countered the single CMU goal with a pair of their own, taking a 4-2 lead into half- time.Early in the third quarter, Fordham scored another goal for a 52 lead. Johnson scored another goal, with an assist from Bredbenner to end the third quarter. Fordham put another one in the net to start the fourth.
)u/lw 6l9ly6 u1utymv rtMUt1uy ty
Then CMUs defense kicked in, creating groundballs that they recovered. Bredbenner found the goal with an assist from freshman Travis Warren with four minutes to play in the game. With just under two minutes left, Warren had another assist, this one to Flynn to close the score to a one-point spread. The CMU offense fired every shot they could at the goal, and with 15 seconds remaining went to a one man advantage. Despite the advantage, they were unable to score, and lost 6-5.Following the CMU game, Michigan beat Virginia Tech, 9- 4. Pitt pounded Ohio State, 11- 2. Michigan took the field again just two hours later against tough and hungry Fordham. Michigan handled Fordham for three and a half quarters. Fordham came back from a 3- point deficit to tie the game with
David Doktor /Tartan Photographer 
wlmvli6uwm vgAiyu/lyv
10 seconds left. Into double overtime, the game looked as if it would be called a tie. Fordham would not settle for that. With 15 seconds to play in the game, Fordham won the most exciting game of the tournament to that point.CMU took the field again; this time their opponent was winless Ohio State. Warren scored first for CMU in the first quarter, but Ohio State came back to steal the lead.The second quarter belonged to Carnegie Mellon. Warren scored again to tie the game at two. Ohio State scored back-to- back goals to take a 4-2 lead. Flynn scored off the assist from Warren. Sophomore Daniel Afirick scored the tying goal with the assist from Bredbenner. As time ran out in the half, Bredbenner scored to bring CMU ahead with an assist from senior
Steve Ramey. But, Ohio State  scored four unanswered goals in j the second half to win 8-5. At Pitt Stadium, Buffalo trounced ; John Carroll 19-2. Pitt beat 1 Bowling Green 13-2, and PLC ' lost to Virginia Tech 87 to end ] Saturdays deluge of lacrosse. Early Sunday morning, the : games began again, with the j lower bracket semifinal games ! taking place.The top four point-scoring ! teams were placedinto a bracket, , and the second four were put \ into a playoff bracket, leaving ; two teams, John Carroll and : Bowling Green, out. At Gesling, fifth-ranked Michigan took on an injured and benchless CMU, and beat them 9-0. Meanwhile > at Pitt, Virginia Tech beat eighth-ranked Ohio State 14-5. : Virginia Tech and Michigan faced one another for a second ; time. This time the secondary ; trophy was in question. The ; score, 94, was the same as their first game, but the outcome was quite different, as Virginia went home with the B bracket trophy.In the A bracket, first place Buffalo pounded PLC 16-1 at Gesling, while Pitt beat Fordham at Pitt 10-6. And so, the only teams to go through the tournament without losing any quarters faced off at Gesling for the winnerstrophy. In a struggle between the two giants,Pitt won the tournament trophybeating Buffalo in overtime 10-9.On the tournament, coordinator and Carnegie Mellon senior captain Peter Vonderlieth said, We went into the tournament missing a lot of guys. There were 10 players who couldnt play. Our performance overall wasnt very good, but we played well - defensively throughout the tournament; we just didnt have the players to score the points.
Crews row for the gold in Baltimore
By TRACY HAYES
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon Crew club traveled to Baltimore, MD last Saturday to compete in the Johns Hopkins Regatta. CMU sent nine crews to their first meet of the season: a mens and a womens varsity pair, a mens lightweight four with a coxswain, two womens varsity fours with coxswains, a mens varsity four with a coxswain, a mens varsity eight with a coxswain, and a womens and a mens novice four with coxswains.There were 18 teams at the regatta. Carnegie Mellon competed against some local teams like Pitt, Duquesne, and Carlow College, as well as teams from Washington College, Johns Hopkins, Maritime, Stockton, La Salle, Lehigh, Mary Washington, Charleston, George Washington, Loyola, Old Dominion, St. Johns, Susquehana, and Catholic University.The competition started at 8 am. The
weather was chilly, but for the most part the water was cooperative, said junior Sarah Gibby. Races were planned to be 2000-meter sprints.Senior Anna Loney and junior Opal Perry rowed the 2000 meters in 10:22 and won a gold in the womens varsity pairs competition.The mens varsity pair, senior Shawn Omler and sophomore Mark Vanan- twerp, took second place in the competition with a time of 8:10.Carnegie Mellon entered two crews in the womens varsity fours competition. Carnegie Mellon graduates Dori Martin, Susan Englert, and Carla Isenberg rowed with freshman Amy Lefkowitz as Team B. With coxswain sophomore Ruth Rasmussen, Team B finished eighth out of 11 with a time of 9:23.06.Team As coxswain, junior Kim McCormick, led Loney, Perry, Gibby, and fifth year senior Lisa Johnson to a seventh-place finish out of 11 teams. Team A rowed the 2000-meter sprint in
9:10.15Omler, Vanantwerp, and Carnegie Mellon graduates Randy Simmons and Chris Fetter competed in the mens varsity fours race with coxswain junior Dexter Kobayashi. With a time of 8:05.4, the crew beat out seven other teams to take sixth place.With Perry as coxswain, the mens varsity eight crew finished the race in 7:40.12, coming in last. The crew consisted of CMU graduates Simmons, Fetter, DarrellKauric, and Cory Kosak along with freshmen John Pasewicz, Matt Jezyk, Chris Maples, and Kevin Luczkow.Luczkow, Jezyk, Pasewicz, and Maples also raced in the mens novice fours competition. Led by coxswain freshman Corky Kamei, they finished last in 10:31.By the time the womens novice four and mens lightweight four competitions rolled around, the water has become so rocky, and the boats so unstable, that the original 2000-meter sprint was cut in half.
The womens novice four crew consisted of Johnson, Gibby, junior Beth Ward, and freshman Karen Knepper.Perry coxed the novice four team to a seventh-place finish, beating four other teams in the 1000-meter sprint with a time of just over six minutes.Seniors Peter Blossey, Dan Fiore, and Dave Shin, with fifth year scholar Chuck Hachten, rowed the 1000 meters as a mens lightweight four crew. Coxed by McCormick, they finished second with a time of 4:37.8.Travelingbackfrom Baltimore, the team was stuck in a snow storm, but, Gibby  said, a good time was had by all.I think that racing in our first regatta 1 of the Spring season allowed us to see ( where we stand overall and what im- ; provements we might each make in order  to be more competitive in the upcoming j regattas, Gibby said.Next weekend the crew team will be j traveling to Charleston, W.Va. to compete j in the Governors Cup Regatta.
Swim team places twelfth at nationals
By DARYL DAVIS
Tartan Staffwriter
Representatives from the Carnegie Mellon mens swim team traveled to New York to compete in the NCAA Mens Championships, March 20-22. While Carnegie Mellon itself was closed down for spring break, the Tartan swimmers were earning a 12th place finish in the nationals. The swimmers earned 19 individual All-American certificates, awarded to the top 16 finishers in each event, as they swam one of the best national meets in Carnegie Mellon history.Senior Brian Zimmerman and junior Jamie Millar were co-cap- tains of the team that attended the competition. Junior Ted Beatty, sophomore Todd Vandall, and freshman Jason Burkey were the other team members who had qualified for the nationals earlier in the season. Individually, each member earned at least two All American certificates.Three of these members had earned the right to compete in individual events. Zimmerman had the highest finish at Nationals. He finished 3rd in the the 200-yard freestyle with the time of 1:41.49. He also had a strong showing in the 500-yard freestyle, as he swam a 4:39.30 to take seventh place. He finished 17th in the 1650-yard freestyle with a time of16:22.24.Other individual results include Millar setting a school record in the 200-yard individual medley as he placed 33rd with a time of 1:58.14. Millar also swam
the 200-yard breaststroke and the 100-yard breaststroke, finishing 31 st with a time of 2:12.26 and 34th with a time of 1:00.07, respectively. Burkey earned an All-American certificate as he swam the 200-yard freestyle in 1:43.36 to finish 16th. He placed 33rd in the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 47:00.00, and he swam the 50-yard freestyle in 22:00.00 to place 31st.The Tartans had also qualified for several relay events, where they broke three school records. Every performance in the relay events earned the participants All American certificates.The team of Burkey, Vandall, Millar, and Zimmerman broke a school record as they captured seventh place in the 800-yard freestyle with an impressive
time of6:56.09. Burkey, Vandall, Beatty and Zimmerman comprised the relay team placed eighth in the 400-yard relay with a time of 3:07.27 and broke the school record.The third school record was set by the team of Burkey, Millar, Vandall, and Beatty. They placed 14th with a time of 3:33.86. The final relay the Tartans had qualified for was the 200-yard freestyle, which the team of Burkey, Vandall, Beatty, and Zimmerman swam in 1:25.88 to grab a 14th place finish.Coach Jim Cutrone was very excited and proud of the teams performance. Vandall and Beatty had exceptional meets, Cutrone said. Vandall stated, This was my second time going and Im extremely happy with
how I performed.There are high expectations '< for the swim team next year. I Zimmerman is the only member I that will be lost to graduation.The results from the mens I nationals and sophomore Denise Fenwicks performance at the womens Nationals the week i before, combine to make one of ! the most successful seasons ever * for the Tartan swim teams.The womens team will be los- ' ing three seniors: Glynis Frost,  Anna Lesko, and Debbie Mad- ' sen.Cutrone, just finishing his first ( year as swim coach at Carnegie 1 Mellon, has high expectations ; for the womens team next year. ; He said, With the returning ; members and the recruits, we  should get into relays [at the j womens nationals].

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 1992
IM News
SPORTS IN SEASON
Bridge
Commissioner Buddy Feitt, x5371 Please report the scores of your matches to Buddy.
Faculty/Grad Volleyball
CommissionerGregory Silvus, 421-8546/x3271
Intramural Supervisor Maureen Shea, 683-3050 Matches are on schedule.
Pinochle
Commissioner Pat Brame, x5326 Please play all games as scheduled and report your scores to Pat.
Water Basketball
Commissioner Mike Kappus, x5302 The certificate lifeguard is Bridget Epertheimer, 683-2658. Playoffs will be this week.
Softball
CommissionersMajors  Buddy Feitt, x5371Intermediate  Dave Ekern,x4676Minors  Mike G., 361-6613 Women Only & Co-Rec  Molly McDermott, 682-3529
Weight Lifting
Commissioner Keith Gorse, x2222You can still sign up for weightlifting. Call Mr. Gorse to arrange lifting times.
Indoor Soccer
CommissionersMajorsMike G., 361-6613Intermediates  Dave Ekem,x4676MinorsMolly McDermot, 682- 3529.
Women Only  Anh Nguyen, 681-1914 Games started last Monday.
Call Pool
Commissioner Steve Kolecki, x4848
Fencing
Commissioner Randy Bruno, x8665
Ultimate Frisbee
Commissioner Jeff Hrkach, not listed
Frisbee Golf
Commissioner Jeff Hrkach, not listed
UPCOMING SPORTS
IM Track MeetAll students, faculty and staff are invited to run. Women Only heats will be held in all events. Post entries will be accepted in the following events: 4x400 relay, 100-meter dash, one-mile run, 400-, 200-, 800-meter runs, 4x100 relay, shot put, longjump, high jump.
IM Swim MeetEveryone is welcome to swim. Women only heats will be held in all events. Post entries will be accepted in the following events: 200-yard medley relay, 50-yard freeestyle, 100-yard individual medley, 50-yard butterfly, 100- yard freestyle, 50-yard backstroke, 50-yard breaststroke, 200-yard free-style.
IM TriathlonThe 1992 Triathlon will be held May 22. Please sign up in the IM Office.
Compiled By TRACY HAYES
Cycling club tears up road race
CMU cyclists compete in first intercollegiate race at Slippery Rock
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons cycling club organized and participated in its first intercollegiate road race on Sunday, March 29. Of four different categories, CMU cycling club had entries in three and had finishers in all three categories.The race was originally planned to take place in Pittsburgh, but the twelve colleges gathered at Slippery Rock, PA, for the first conference race of the season. The twelve competing teams were: the University of Pennsylvania, Slippery Rock University, Edinboro University, Dickinson College, Clarion University, Mercyhurst College and Penn State University at Behrend, Bucknell University, University of Wisconsin, and State University of New York at Buffalo. Despite the diverse talent, the first-year racing team from CMU made a great showing, taking second place for the day.
In the beginner racers level, CMU had four team members racing in an 18-member field on
Exercise and eat jplnoccoll or watch TV and eat 
jplnoccoll. This fresh green pizza Is good for you. 
Topped with Cheddar, ricotta, mozzarella, fresh 
broccoli, spinach and tomata The nirvana of plzzal
1922 Murray Avenu*  Squirrel HUI 
521-8222open til midnight  Fri. I Sat. til I a.m.
FORBES GALLERY
52OOFORBESAVEFITTSBURGHPA
(412)2682081
1992 WINTER/SPRING SCHEDULE
JANUARY 21ST  26TH 
ERIC CORR JOHN TRIVELLI STEPHAN WOOD
JANUARY 28TH - FEBRUARY 2ND 
TELECORPS
FEBRUARY 4TH - 9TH 
TOM BERGER RICK KIGGINS TAM WILLIS
FEBRUARY I1TH - 16TH 
FRED BAXTER MATTHEW HOLLAN 
MIKE RODGERS DANA MARTINELLI
FEBRUARY I8TH - 23RD 
SARAH MARSHALL RACHEL POPOWCER K SHANTI SPURLOCK
FEBRUARY 25TH - MARCH 1ST 
MICHELLE ILLUMINATO HOPE JOHNSON ELISE SOROKA
MARCH 3RD - 8TH 
BEN HOFFMAN ELIZABETH MEADOWS RAVEN
MARCH 10TH - 15TH 
JESSICA BUBEN PAIGE CLARK ELIZABETH MOGEL
MARCH I7TH - 22ND 
CHRISTINE FLEMING ALICIA MASSIMO DEB MILLISON
MARCH 31ST - APRIL 5TH 
TODD CALVERT KATIE GRINNAN DAVE PAGANI
APRIL 7TH - 12TH 
CHARLIE CASTANEDA MALIK JOHNSON BRODY REIMAN
APRIL 14TH - 19TH 
BARBARA LEE ANNA LONEY BOB KOLLAR
APRIL 21ST  26TH 
JENNIFER ARSCOTT MARIE BUKOWSKI ALISON COLMAN
APRIL 28TH - MAY 3RD 
EMMY DEMUSIS EMILY MALESON LAUREN SCHLOSSBERG
OPENING RECEPTIONS ARE THE FIRST FRIDAY OF EACH 
EXHIBITION 
7:00 to 9:00 PM
a 12-mile course. Three placed in the top five. Freshman Matt Patton finished fifth in the race, just behind senior Randy Walter, both finishing with times just
how to ride with people, but I dont think this is how its done. In the womens category, of eight racing, CMU had two bikes, both finishing in the top four on
"Going in I thought I'd have to push 
myself, but it turned out to be a 
calm race. [It was a] good pace until 
the last sprint, and then we just tore 
it up."
 Amy Thompson
over 31 minutes. In first place freshman Eric Lobeck, competing in his first road race ever, beat the second place finisher by over a minute, with a time of 30:34. About his huge lead throughout the race, Lobeck said, Td been hoping to learn
the 12-mile course. Sophomore Jessie Miller finished fourth behind fellow teammate, sophomore Amy Thompson, who, like Lobeck, was racing for the first time. Thompson finished with a time of36:25. Goingm I thought Id have to push myself, Thomp
son said, but it turned out to be a calm race. [It was a] good pace until the last sprint, and then we just tore it up.CMU also competed in the A category, the field for more advanced racers. In a field of 26, CMUs team consisted of five riders. Only one managed to break the top five on the 24-mile course. Sophomore Chris McGee took a huge lead near the end of the fourth and final lap. As he came around the final turn, his lead diminished, as did some of his momentum. McGee led the sprint to the finish line, but two other racers closed in quickly.During the last 30 feet of the race, the two other racers, one from IUP, the other an Olympian in training from Edinboro, overtook the weary McGee.I should have won, said McGee of his third-place finish with a time of 59:58. Breaking away three times during the race was probably a mistake. But it was fun.
Counseling & Student Development Center
Morewood Gardens-E Tower 
268-2922
Crisis Intervention Individual Psychotherapy Sexual Orientation Counseling Referrals from Health Services
Consultation ACOA Counseling Assessment & Referral Sexual Assault Counseling
Groups: Therapy Groups for Relationships, Date Rape/Violence, Graduate Students; Support Groups for Stress, Making Friends, and also Gay and Lesbian Students
Hours by Appointment Weekday Walk-in Crisis Hours After-hours Emergency Services
Division of Student Affairs
ANNOUNCING A NEW COURSE AT CMU...
^(^IFItiQOIiOIL U1FGio(L Ogi) dO iS) 
A 8EIL(F-PAGlglB,
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF PHILOSOPHY AND THE CENTER FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF APPLIED ETHICS
9 units
80-241 or 80-741
No prerequisites 
Fall 1992
"Ethical Issues in Professional Life" is designed to provide both 
graduate and undergraduate students with an understanding of and 
a framework for analyzing the many complex ethical issues, 
problems and dilemmas facing contemporary professionals in 
business and accounting, engineering, science, journalism and media, 
public administration, medicine, law and social work.
The course uses an integrated set of 14-one-half hour videos, 
an accompanying workbook and audio tapes. One video segment per 
week will be viewed in Instructional Technology. On a course 
specific bulletin board, students will discuss the weekly issues raised 
in that video and in the corresponding workbook chapter and audio 
tapes. There will be three plenary class sessions: an orientation, 
mid-term and final session. As so designed, the course allows for 
ample flexibility in a student's schedule.
T he workbook serves as a course text with self-paced study 
questions and assignments to be submitted to the instructor via 
campus mail. Edited and condensed transcripts of the videos are also 
included in the workbook as well as suggestions for additional 
readings. The instructor, Peter Madsen, executive director of the 
Center for the Advancement of Applied Ethics, will meet with 
students by appointment for individual tutorials as necessary.
The course showcases nationally known professionals and 
ethicists including: Hon. Lawton Chiles, Governor of Florida; Roger
Boisjoly, Shuttle Challenger whistleblower; Talbot D'Alemberte, 
President, American Bar Association; Lisa Newton, Director, Program 
in Applied Ethics, Fairfield University and project consultant for the 
PBS series "Ethics in America" and Manuel Velasquez, Director, Center 
for Applied Ethics, Santa Clara University and author of Business 
Ethics: Concepts and Cases.
PRE-REGISTER IN APRIL FOR "PROFESSIONAL ETHICS" 
ORIENTATION SESSION ON AUGUST 25, 1:30, ROOM A18C, PORTER HALL
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT PETER MADSEN, 2/0yjuy6ilH
x5703

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 199211
CMU loses opening game
By PAUL PLATOSH
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon womens Lacrosse Team played their first game of the season last Saturday with a concerted effort against the University of Pittsburgh.Although the Tartans lost 7- 8, the team felt that it played a solid game. I was impressed by the way we played. This was our first game, and Im very proud of everyone, considering that Pitt is a very good team, said freshman forward Lillian Elias.The Tartans fared poorly in
the first half, not generating enough defensive pressure, and suffering from a general lack of communication. Because of this, Pitt was able to carry a two-goal lead into halffcime.One redeeming factor was the gutsy play of freshman scoring sensation Elias, who kept the Tartans in the game with her crafty moves andblisteringback- hand shot.Senior captain Inge Swenson remarked, We were shaky in the first half but we came alive in the second. And come alive they did, completely shutting down Pitts offensive pressure
for long periods of time.The Tartans took advantage of their opponents disorganization by quickly chalking up three unanswered goals to take the lead.However, near the end of the game, the superior Pitt passing converted into a one goal lead for the Panthers, who managed to hold on to the lead despite tremendous offensive pressure generated by the Tartans.We have a great future, said sophomore Emanuelle Lafer. The Carnegie Mellon womens lacrosse team meets Pitt again next Friday at Pitt.
G,Is2,1IGC,1V arnns2 agiCCV G, sgC,CnGga MUUM 
29 June-7 August
The London School of Economics and Political Sdcncc
'LSE'* outstanding acadcmic programme, coupled with the excitement of the City of London, 
will add a wonderful dimension to my undergraduate experience.*
Intensive, high quality programme taught by senior members of 
LSE Economics faculty and distinguished visiting professors 
from Yale and the London Business SchooL 
Recognized by the Graduate School at LSE and by other 
leading graduate programmes.
Tuition Fees:
1 session 625
2 sessions Cl 125
First Session 29 June-L7JoIy 
Introductory Macroeconomia 
Growth of tbc Industrial World Economy 
Principles of Accounting 
Intermediate Macroeconomics 
Introduction to Econometrics 
Economic Perspectives on Society 
Business Strategy 
Development Economics
Second Session 20 JoIy-7 August 
Introductory Microeconomics 
Mathematics for Economists 
Intermediate Microeconomics 
Economics of Transition in 
Eastern Europe 
Advanced Economic Theory 
Finance
Economics of European Integration
All course* offer 50 contact hours and are examined and certificated
Accommodation; available in LSE residences in prestigious Docklands locations
Further Details from; Susan Laverick, International Summer School in Economics, 
London School of Economics, Houghton Street London WC2A2AE. Tel: 44 (0) 71 955 7554 
Fax 44(0)71 8311840
GOgs
PCE<
x2111
RESEARCH NTORMATION
Largest Library ol information in U.S. 
all subjects
Order Caia.uy Today wiin Visa'MC or COD
800-351 0222
Onrush S2 00 io Research Information
'.Of * tbs Angers CA ?0C?5
Student/FacultyDISCOUNTAIRFARES
TOEUROPE
ztu ,itvtmU StiHuwm
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
ASIAN
PERSPECTIVE
Be the one to tell. 
Become a counselor for the 
Freshman Orientation from the 
Asian Perspective.
Asian Perspective is a supplementary 
component in the overall Freshman 
Orientation. It is not a rush event for all 
Asian organizations, nor is it an Asian 
socializing party. It IS a series of programs 
designed by student counselors to help 
Freshmen who have a background with 
Asian families or communities. It is NOT 
about telling Freshmen how to act or what to 
do as an Asian. It IS a forum for them to 
familiarize them with the diversity of Asian 
students on campus and the issues they will 
face. Issues can range anywhere from racial 
discrimination to the dating scene on 
campus.
For anyone interested in Asian Perspective, 
more information and applications to become 
counselors are available at the Skibo Info 
Desk. Deadline for entry of applications is 
April 17,1992. Get your application now!
Funded by your Student Activities Fee
Swimmer ends career 
as 15-time All-American
Senior Brian Zimmerman ended his collegiate swimming career the weekend of March 20-22 at the NCAA Division III championships at the University of Buffalo. He earned five All-America citations at the meet.Zimmermans most recent All-America honors were a result of a third-place finish in the 200- yard individual freestyle (1:41.49), a seventh- place finish in the 500-yard freestyle (4:39.30), a seventh-place finish in the 800-yard freestyle relay (6:56.90), an eighth-place finish in the 400- yard freestyle relay (3:08.05), and a 14th-place finish in the 200-yard freestyle relay (1:25.88). The Tartans times in the 400- and 200-yard relays were school records. Zimmermans performance led CMU to a school-best 12th-place finish in the national standings.Last year, Zimmermans career was highlighted when he was named NCAA Division III Swimmer of the Year, and became Carnegie Mellons first national champion by winning NCAA Division III titles in the 200- and 500-yard freestyles.Zimmerman is a three-time UAA Most Valuable Performer, has won 11 individual UAA titles, and has been a member of three relay teams that won league crowns. He holds individual school records in the 200-, 500-, 1000-, and 1,650-yard freestyles. He is also a member of relay teams holding records for the 200-yard freestyle, the 400-yard medley, 400-yard freestyle, and 800-
yard freestyle. He holds UAA records in the 200- and 500-yard freestyles, and is a member of the UAA record-holding 400- and 800-yard freestyle relay teams.
BBall player wins award
Senior center Amy Buxbaum of the CMU womens basketball team was named a recipient of the Charles T. Stoner Scholarship Award. The award is presented annually by the Womens Basketball Coaches Association (WBCA). It is given to a senior basketball player who plans to pursue a career in law.Buxbaum is one of two recipients. She received the $500 award at the Rawlings Awards Breakfast at the WBCA National Convention in Los Angeles yesterday.Buxbaum, a four-year letter-winner and two- year co-captain, led the Tartans in scoring and rebounding, in field goal percentage, and in blocked shots.She ranked first in the University Athletic Association (UAA) in blocked shots, second in rebounding and field goal percentage, and tenth in scoring. She finished her career with 1,019 points, 933 rebounds, and 189 blocked shots.Buxbaum is a public policy and management major with a 3.5 QPA, and was voted to the District II Academic All-America team by the College Sports Information Directors of America this year.Compiled By Tracy Hayes
Win a Mountain Bike!
Sponsored By Mott's Juice & Retail Services
Special Carnival Special!
Mott's 10 oz. Juice 
2 for $1.20 
Or $.60 Each!
Raffle Will Occur At Spring Carnival on April 11 at 3 pm
Pick Up Entry Blanks at Entropy or the Co-Op and Drop Them Off At Either Location
*No Purchase Necessary
classified
ADOPTION
Loving, secure, married, Caucasian couple 
wants very much to give your newborn a 
warm and happy home. Expenses paid. 
For more information call collect after 6pm 
(814) 833-8215.
HOUSING
SHADYSIDE: Short Sc Suite. Elegantly 
furnished Sc Accessorized Studio, 1 or 2 
Bedroom Apartment Suite, Equipped 
Kitchen (Service for Four), All linens, Free 
Cable, Telephone, Reserved Parking. 2 
Blocks from Shops Sc Restaurants on Wal
nut St. From S44 Per Day (Monthly Basis). 
Located on Fifth Ave. Bus at Door. Monthly 
Rates. 441-4444.
Frick-Park-Park Place. Three Bedrooms, 
w-to-w carpet, equipped kitchen, deck, 
garage available, 475 + utilities. 241- 
2963.
See St Decide for Yourself. Check the 
facts about this beautiful, huge (2500 sq. 
ft.) apartment with: 5 cheerful bedrooms/
2 large livingrms (22 ft. x 17 ft.) Sc (35ft. x 
14 ft.)/ 2 full baths/ dining rm/ kitchen/ 
sun porch/office/garage/washer 6c dryer nrmrr^rr 
(free)/grass cut. Fantastic location!! About vs2tGgsa
200 steps from C.M.U. Very responsible 
landlords. Available May 16. $1675 + C.
Sc E. Summer sublet allowed. Call 521 - 
9441 evenings.
Models wanted forhaircoloring seminars 
at Dean of Shadyside Salon. Call 661 -9192 
between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. Tuesday 
through Friday.
Northeastern Ohio is looking for quali
fied and motivated individuals to join tech
nical and/or development teams working 
with high-end desktop publishing tech
nology. Multiple positions open forspring 
placement. Individual should have strong 
Macintosh skills in application develop
ment, system and desktop applications 
(QuarkXPress, Illustrator, Photoshop, etc.) 
Communication skills and ability to handle 
large, complex responsibilities and projects 
a must. Don't miss this once in a lifetime 
opportunity to join a company that will 
helpyou maximize your capabilities. Send 
resumes, including references, to: Person
nel Director, Publishing Solutions, Inc., 80
S. Summit St., Akron, OH 44308.
Summer Jobs To Save The Environment. 
Earn $2500-3500. National campaign 
positions to promote comprehensive recy
cling, pesticide reform, and curb global 
warming. Avail in Pittsburgh, 29 states and 
D.C. Campus interviews 4/7. Call Jamie 
toll free: 1-800-75-EARTH.
J7AVEL
Study Abroad in Australia. - Information 
on semester, year, graduate, summer and 
internship, programs in Perth, Townsville, 
Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at 
$3520. Call 1-800-878-3696.
Hostel Europe 1992! Pittsburgh AYH has 
Eurail Passes, Student I.D. Cards and inex
pensive Hostel Membership cards. Call 
422-2282 for information.
Heading for Europe this summer? Jet 
there anytimefor only $169 with AIRHITCH! 
(reported in Let's Go Sc NY Times.) Also, 
super low rountrip fares East to West coast. 
AIRHITCH.MISC
JOBS
AUTHORITY TYPING SERVICE. Resumes, 
spreadsheets, dissertations, theses, term 
papers. HPIII LaserJet used for highest 
quality output. Reasonable rates. Ann 
687-6267.
Alaska Summer Employment - fisheries. 
Earn $5,000+/month. Free Transporta
tion! Room & Board! MALE or FEMALE. For 
employment program call 1 -206-545-4155 
ext. 248.
Computer training in your home or of
fice. PC or MAC. Word processing, spread
sheets, databases. Call for free brochure. 
741-4792 CTA.
Classified Rates1-20 Hgi6m............$3.00 / H(21-50 Hgi6m.........$5.00 / H(50-100 Hgi6m.......$8.00 / H(
Faoummt9tl6m /Amv -l 2ut6 -w 
MumU gi MUlM( -l9gil vUl 9timv 
mMUl6Aol6 iAy 6uvlh
Let the Classifieds work for you! 
Send your ad with payment today!
Ify IouIoa 
268-2111
Fund Raising Candy. Guaranteed lo .'est 
prices. McKeesport Candy Co. 673-44J6. 
High Profits/No Risk.
Scholarships, grants, financial aid avail
able! Regardless of grades or finances. 
Guaranteed Results! Call 24-hour recorded 
message for free information: 1-800-535- 
0204.

---------------------------------------------------

SO WHY DON'T YOU WANT TO GO TO FRANCE????
IT'S EASY AND YOU HAVE TO REGISTER ANYWAY,
WHY NOT CMU COURSES AT THE CENTRE DE TOURS?????
IT'S AFFORDABLE ($8950 FOR TUITION, ROOM, AND BOARD)
FINANCIAL AID GOES WITH YOU.
IT'S ONLY 55 MINUTES FROM PARIS.
YOU CAN TAKE CREATIVE WRITING IN THE FALL AND MATERIALS SCIENCE IN THE SPRING (ALONG WITH MANY OTHER COURSES IN ENGLISH AND FRENCH).
YOU CAN TRAVEL. YOU CAN EXPERIENCE A REAL OKTOBERFEST, THE WORLD'S FAIR IN SPAIN, ETC:...
WHAT MORE DO YOU WANT???!!!!??
PICK UP YOUR COURSE LIST AND AN APPLICATION AT THE OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL 
EDUCATION, 219 SMITH HALL (BEHIND HAMBURG) OR CALL EMILY BIANCHINI AT X4969.
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS APRIL 17 DO IT NOW!!!!

---------------------------------------------------

ffl&g lfDIOHB
Volume 86. Issue 21The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania6 April 1992
Organizations construct this years legends
By TRUPTI PATEL
Tartan Staffuiriter
Bad weather and bad timing are the two primary factors that are causing problems for the construction of booth this year. Many organizations are finding it difficult to build in the rainy, and often snowy, weather conditions that have persisted throughout February and March.In addition, Carnival is one week earlier this year than it has been in the past; thus, booth chairs are finding themselves hard pressed to squeeze in an extra week of building before Carnival. Despite the problems that have plagued booth this year, organizations are enthusiastic as well as optimistic about the upcoming Carnival.Phi Kappa Theta booth chair Craig Robinson says, I think our building process is actually going really well. But its a last-second kind of thing because weve got a lot of detailing to do. If we get our booth done completely, well be really strong.Phi Kaps plans for booth this year include building a 25-foot tall structure and using about 2200 square feet of foam in order to construct the Tower of Babel. Robinson believes that Phi Kap will, as in the past, make a strong showing in the booth competition this year.Pioneers booth chair Paul Welding says that they also plan to make a tremendous effort to do as well in booth this year as they have done in the past. Pioneers, which is building a booth around the theme of The Legend of Old St. Nick, intends to integrate the Santa Claus theme into its game this year by having people build toys in order to win prizes.Welding says, Our booth is pretty huge; its about 16 feet high. And the game is really cool because theres a complicated pulley system were using. According to Welding, the booth is not as colorful as last years Dr. Seuss booth, but its much more integrated and much larger.As far as other independent organizations are concerned, Welding says, I heard FRINGES designs were incredible. I havent seen or heard much from SDC, which kind of worries me.FRINGE assistant booth chair Randy Walter says the organizations goal is to place in the top three of the independent division, but that they
are not speculating about anything else. This year, FRINGE is using the theme Aladdin and the Magic Lamp.Walter says, We are usinga versionofAladdins Palace as our model, and well be using a lot of Middle Eastern type of architecture to do it. Although Walter says that FRINGE has been busy building since February, it has been hurt by the weather just like everyone else.The weather is killing everybody. We just have to pray for good weather in the next week, he says.Chris OKeefe, who is Delta Tau Deltas booth chair this year, says it has fallen behind schedule in its building. We only started building recently, and its been going kind of slow. I dont think we can get as much done as we originally expected to complete. We reduced what we originally aimed at.DTDs booth theme is Lord of the Rings from J.R.R. Tolkiens popular fantasy tale. It plans to build the Lonely Mountain, which is the home of the character Smog the Dragon.OKeefe says, I think we should have something that looks really cool. There will be something there that everyone likes. We dont expect to winwere just out there having fun. My goal is just to have something that looks nice. Kappa Alpha Thetas theme this year is ThetaWood Forest, a variation of the legend of Robin Hood. Kelly Walter, a Theta booth co-chair, says that the outside of the booth will be an old English cottage, while the inside of the booth will be the forest. Walter says that, compared to last year, were a lot more organized this year. Were using the Walt Disney model of Robin Hood... trying to appeal to the kid in all of us. Diaim Deal, also a Theta booth co-chair, says that our goal is really to have all of our chapter participate and have fun doing it.Even though the weather has been bad, it appears that the Carnival booth competition among all the divisions will be just as heated as it has been in the past.People arent letting the weather or the early timing get them down. The CMU campus community can still expect to see a stunning Midway on Thursday.Phi Kappa Theta works on their booth this week.
CESAR SANCHEZ/Tartan Darkroom ManagerTHyyO BetME EBtiB BAefi emyfmeE yeB ietnO upi cCeeREBtKeE
By JENNIFER FORBES
Tartan Copy Manager
Bad weather was once again the curse of freerolls. Three weekends of rolls were cancelled in March because of snow or rain. Many buggy teams have not been able to get the amount of practice they would like, and most buggy chairs agree that 
this will make race day less predictable than usual.Seventeen teams will be competing in Sweepstakes 1992. Beta Theta Pi will not be competing this year. ASA will be exhibiting their new experimental feet-first buggy. The teams are presented in the order of their best mens finishes in 1991. 
Spirit 
Changes: According to Chad Darby, Spirit buggy chair, We went back to basics. 
Predictions: While Darby thinks Spirit will win, he suggests that everyone just show up on race day and see what happens. He feels that race day will be very random since free rolls did not go well this year. 
Buggies: Shaka Zulu (92),
Vicious Flow (90),Tachyon (89),Quantum Leap (87)
Pi Kappa Alpha
Changes'. PiKA has a new buggy, Cyclone, this year.
Predictions'. I think well do pretty well. We have a lot of fast pledges, says Pika buggy chair, Tom Ambrose. Ambrose predicts that theyll have two or three buggies in the top 10. He sees their biggest competition coming from Spirit and Sigma Nu. He also says that free rolls have been difficult this year with the bad weather.
Buggies'. Cyclone (92), Ren
egade (91), Desperado (90), 
Predator (88)
SDC
Changes: SDC revamped theirCteam buggy,
Bonzai.According to chair Joe Bailey theyve made minor improve
ments to the buggies and major improvements to their push teams.
Predictions: Bailey predicts that the team will do well this year. Since 1990, weve built a strong foundation and we seem to get better and better every year, and this year is no different. He thinks that no team can be discounted, but feels that the winner will be either PiKA or Spirit. Bailey is worried about the number of accidents in free rolls this year.
Buggies: Escargot (91), Ter
rapin (90), Bonzai (86) 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Changes: We are requiring our drivers be sober during practices and rolls, says chair Erik Gropp
fine and were hoping to beat last years time, says Gropp. He predicts that Kappa Sig A will win this year.
Buggies: Tachooie (91), 
Quasimoto (89)
Delta Tau Delta 
Changes: This year DTD has a female co-chair for buggy, Jennifer Kerstein. Says co-chair Rick Romero, She knows the driver stuff and handles that aspect.
Predictions: Romero feels that Sigma Nu is their biggest competition, but is unsure of how well his team will do because there havent been enough free rolls. He predicts that PiKA will win on race day.
Buggies:
Perception (90), Deception (90)
 Sigma Nu 
Changes: According to chair Jim Wiley, Sigma Nu is better organized this year.
Predictions: Wed like to finish in the top three, says Wiley. He sees PiKA and Spirit as their competition and predicts that one of them will win. Wiley complains of the bad weather during free rolls, but doesnt think it will be a problem on race day.
Buggies: KosD419 (92), Jama (90), Jerboa (86), Colugo (84) 
Pioneers 
Changes: Pioneers will be introducing a new buggy this year. 
Predictions: Our A team is shooting for the top 10, says buggy chair Pete Harlee. We are al
ways trying to do better thanj last year. Harlee feels that they; will have a lot of competition; from groups like Theta Xi,; FRINGE, and Phi Kap, but feels | that the winner will be eitherJ PiKA or Spirit. Freerolls have; gone well when it was possible! to have them, according to; Harlee.
Buggies: Tsunami (92), Tur-\ 
moil (91), EDGE (89)
Theta Xi
Changes: Theta Xi has refined! their program, according to chair i Doug Jotzke.
Predictions: Our womens; team should do well. The mens; team should be competitive.; Were looking for a trophy, says J Jotzke. He thinks Spirit will win| because they get the choice of| the track people. Because of the j lack of good weather, Jotzkes! says, The place to be on race! day is in the chute.
Buggies: Kurgen (91), NemA

---------------------------------------------------

J-2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 1992
Talking with some folks who make it happen...Carnival Chairs
ffl
Meg Veily, chair of Carnival
How did you get involved in Carnival?When I was a sophomore, I was asked to be the assistant to the midway chair. Then I spent two years as the midway chair and then, this year, as a fifth year senior, I was elected chair.
Whats your favorite part of Carnival?As midway chair, you have to stay near the midway. This year, Im looking forward to seeing shows and going on rides. The booths are always really impressive, too.
Jennifer Gaspari, Entertainment chair 
Whats new in Carnival entertainment this year?This year the big concert will be on Saturday rather than Sunday to give everyone all of Sunday to clean up without being distracted by other events. I also think this year is really student-oriented... For example, the only people who can sell arts and crafts are faculty, students, and staff. Also, I really encouraged students to perform, as well as the outside performers.
1 Phil (Goose) Marino, Midway co-chair
Whats new on the Midway this year?We have a new rule that mandates that booths that use projectiles use some sort of screen to keep the projectiles in the booths  theyll be fined if they dont comply.
Whats your favorite part of Carnival?I like to watch the people building their booths. Its fun to see how a pile of wood turns into some of those creations.
Mark Yeek, Power and Safety chair
What do you think will be the best aspect of Carnival this year? The concert will be really cool this year. The booths are always good, too. And, of course, the WRCT truck.
Why do you think people should get involved in Carnival?Its neat to have all of the different organizations on campus working together on the same thing. Its a lot of fun. We get free jackets. We get to carry around radios, too.
Stephanie Horwitz, Publicity co-chair
How did you get involved in Carnival?I was working at Skibo Info Desk last year when I overheard Bonnie Gorman talking about the committee and said I was interested. 
Why do you think people should get involved in Carnival? [Carnival] gives you a lot of experience for organizing things. Its a really nice team feeling, toothe camaraderie is great. It gives you a way to get involved different from booth or buggy.
Meri Tyler, Recycling chair
How did you get involved in Carnival Recycling?Since Im a CivE/EPP double major and have studied waste management, I became the recycling chair when they created the position. 
Whats new in recycling this year?Were making recycling more visible and making it more attractive to Carnival-goers. Were giving an award to the booth thats the most recyclable.
Stephanie Chrisp, SDC Tent chair
Whats new in SDC Tent this year?This year we arent going to have a dance because were having many more acts this year. Weve also moved the tent closer to the sidewalk so people dont have to walk on the grass to get to it.
How did you get involved in Carnival?Im a full-petitioned member of SDC in my sixth semester. I helped with tent last year and moved up to chair this year.
Lance Wyatt, Security chair
How did you get involved in Carnival? I knew someone who was on the committee last year and so I got the position of security assistant last year  now Im security chair. Why do you think people should get involved in Carnival?Its a good way to get away from the rigmarole of everyday CMUlife. Its a scheduled chance to let you hair down. If you dont take advantage of that, youre missing out.
The Alpha Kappa Chapter of Alpha Epsilon Pi 
Congratulates 
Its New Brothers For The 1991-92 Academic Year
rtMUulo S6oli 
ruvvUlH .go6-li1 
Ruiiw .go69ty1li 
aUuiotl .go6mvlty 
rtMUulo ;uo2lity
,Aiv ;goJ/uy 
rligy Ruy1myli 
evlzl etigvJ(w 
)tMUui6 e/goly
Compubookie speaks again
Editors note: Compubookies 
contributions are an annual tra
dition submitted anonymously.The biggest story in buggy this year, as often happens, is the weather. With six consecutive days of freerolls rained or snowed out, many organizations are left scrambling for raceday plans. With permits increasingly difficult to acquire, the number of rolls before raceday this year has reached an all-time low.Organizations who have missed any of the days of rolls have to worry about qualifying new drivers and new buggies. This should set the stage for a large amount of buggy carnage come April 10 and 11. The success of Buggy 92 hinges upon getting two clear days, which this year has been no safe bet.The Spirit-PiKA competition continues as it did raceday 91 when Spirit was able to regain its mens title. The rain-soaked coarse provided much slower times on Day 2 as Spirit A rolled a 2:10.63, while PiKA A could only manage a 2:11.04. These compare to the Day 1 times of 2:07.22 and 2:08.94 for Spirit
and PiKA, respectively. The win puts Spirit back on top of the Buggy world, having won four of the last five Sweepstakes competitions. With the loss of guru/ chair Terence Yarde, Spirit will have to work much harder to keep the trophy.Spirits main adversaries will again be the pushers of Pi Kappa Alpha. The 90 champions will have the best shot at dethroning Spirit, but Compubookie doesnt see it happening this year. The 1992 prediction will have to be Spirit A first, PiKA A second, and a surprising SDC A third. SDCs fourth place finish last year is another notch in its rise to prominence that should continue this year.Surprises for the top 10 include Pioneers reaching a little higher and making it to Day 2. Perennial power house Beta Theta Pi seems to have fallen on rough times and will have to rely on its pushers to even make the top 10.Sigma Nus efforts, valiant as usual, will probably not land them higher than 6th. That is if its Hill 5 pusher can avoid the
DQ.On the womens side, PiKAs A team suffered greatly from graduation losses, while the early Spring Carnival should allow Spirits women to prevent PiKA from winning three consecutive womens championships. ThetaXis depth on pushers propels it to second place.The buggy technology race continues to be a heated one. New buggies from Sigma Nu, CIA, KDR, PiKA, Fringe, DU, and even ASA should all be rolling faster than ever. ASAs luge/ skateboard wins the wed even lose to Limo award for the year. Hopefully, all of these buggies make it to raceday because Compubookie loves to watch the show.With raceday rapidly .approaching, Sweepstakes should prove to be more interesting than ever. The Midway can wait  the races are the place to be. Grab your umbrella, scope out a viewing spot, and watch closely; You will see some great buggy action and maybe out of the corner of your eye, even a glimpse of Compubookie.
Compubookie takes a look at Busevl992....
aGS  Its new buggy is probably the only one its chair doesn't fit into.
c)GN.f  Would have better luck entering a demolition derby.
SeS  Has anyone seen Compubookie's skateboard?
eda  Its hard to keep calling these folks a fluke.
Vtgyllim May just camp out in the top 10.
8u22u eo1  "Mom, I drive a buggy called rolling death trap'.
8d)  Two less pushbars wont do much good.
VG Ru/  Legend ... more like a fairy tale.
Vt(u  If the drivers dont take the shortcut through the conservatory.
dPd  Too much cake turns drivers into chairs
,lvu  The only thing flying raceday '91 was the bird  Undertaker appears to be dead and buried. 
eSf  Takoohi... gesundheit!
SPI  If only DTD and Spirit could push for them on raceday.
et1/u NA  It's too bad that pushers are needed to win the race.
eo1 PuA  Emergency ejector system will probably be needed on raceday.
PUlvu "G  Nadz would roll down the hill faster than one of its buggies.
VUt 8u2  A picture is worth a thousand words.
e2titv  If Terence could still push instead of just helping out, Spirit would be a lot better off.
The VfiitosopFiy CtuS is (BACK and foCding it 's annuaC:
PHILOSOPHY CLUB PIZZA PARTY!!!
DAY: THURSDAY, APRIL 9THTIME: 4:30 PM PLACE: BAKER HALL 135J
JWD you SV%E HtyiyE'D!
Attend and give your input on upcoming events and speakers 
dealing with Artificial Intelligence, Ethics, Computational 
Linguistics and many other Philosophical issues!
_________Please R.S.V.P. by Wednesday, April 8th by 2:00 pm at x8568.______
EXPLORER'S
Meetings 
Every Thursday 6:30 pm 
Porter Hall 126A
Special Meeting : On Thursday, April 9, Dr. 
Ivan Jirak, a prominent world explorer, wil 
be giving a slide show presentation on his 
experiences rock climbing.
Funded by your Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon * 6 Aprii 1992L3
Talking with some folks who make it happen...CamivaC Chairs
Mike Schwartz, Special Events chair
Whats new in Special Events this year?Basically, there are two things sponsored by Special Events this year: miniature golf and the Go For A Spin frisbee group. 
How did you get involved in Carnival?I started as an SDC representative, then went to programming chair, then to tent co-chair, then to tent chair last year. Now, as a graduate student, Ive taken on Special Events.
Brian Papa, Technical chair
What do you think will be the best aspect of Carnival this year?The band will be good. Its at a much better time and its a much better band. The entertainment is really well coordinated this year.
Why do you think people should get involved in Carnival?I dont think Id have a lot of fun if I were just attending Carnival. Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday-Thursday construction is just as fun for me as Carnival itself.
Alexis dePlanque, Sweepstakes chair
Whats your favorite part of Carnival?"Getting to sit on the lead truck. Youre gonna have your Spirit and your PiKA, but theres gonna be a lot of surprises, too.
Why do you think people should get involved in Carnival?You get to see a whole lot of what goes on behind the scenes  like in buggy mechanics and how different groups ran buggy and stuff. What else would get people out of bed at three oclo ck on a Saturday morning? I think its noble. It shows a lot of dedication.
ag/2tol6 -w RuAiu Vuouy(lih VUgvgm -w eu/Alo .illy9tlo6h
SUPA to honor Heinz
THyyO BetME ieW HR Bp ipNN
cig/ ,n..*s 2u1l RG
new lighter, faster buggy that it will be racing this year.
Predictions: According to chair Rick Baker, Well be pretty good, probably pushing in the top 10. iJaker predicts that PiKA and Spirit will dominate the top 5 positions. Baker feels that the bad weather has hurt a lot of teams and that there will probably be more spin-outs than usual on race day.
Buggies: Conquest (92), 
Eclipse (91), Spectre (84)
0 Alpha Tau Omega
Changes: None
Predictions: Were hoping for the top 10, says chair Dorian LaPaglia. Theres no reason why we cant make it. The bad weather has made it close in qualifying for race day, according to LaPaglia.
Buggies: Probation (91), Rebel 
Yell (86)
Kappa Delta Rho
Changes: According to chair Rob Wright, KDR. has made a little tweak here and a little tweak there.
Predictions: Wright feels that his teams chances depends on the push team, but, like many other organizations, thinks his own organization can make a top 10 finish. He calls the whole race a toss-up.
Buggies: Prometheus (89). KDR is uncertain as to which other buggies they will be running.
FRINGE
Changes: FRINGE will be entering a new buggy in Sweep
stakes 1992. Also, according to chair Debra Perry, We have a lot of new members and an enthusiastic team.
Predictions: Perry expects their team to be better than last year, but says, Its hard to call because of the weather. She feels that PiKA will win, but considers Spirit to be very competitive as well.
Buggies: Atthis time, FRINGE is unsure of which buggies they will be running.
Delta Upsilon 
Changes: DU has made organizational changes and has a new buggy this year.
Predictions: Well do much better than last year or than weve traditionally done. We had mechanical problems last year and we are confident that we wont have them this year, says Allan Tear, chair. He feels that their biggest competition is from Theta Xi, DTD, and SAE. He thinks that Spirit will win overall.
Buggies: Merganser (92),Teal 
Whistler (91), Gargeny (90) 
Kappa Sigma 
Changes: Kappa Sighas added a womens team this year. According to chair Kirk Lenga, Our main goal is to have fun, but weve tried to put a more competitive edge on it this year and put more effort into buggy. 
Predictions: Lenga hopes that their team will finish in the top 25. He says, We keep having bizarre mishaps everytime, but this year we think well look okay. He thinks that the race is
O')
S
3
CD
26T6HISH JSUNH.IU10
Summering in Pittsburgh?
DUQUESNE'S 1992 SUMMER SCHEDULE OFFERS:
* TRANSFERABLE COURSES *
* ACCELERATED SESSIONS *
* START DATES MAY THRU JULY *
Ask about our wide variety of Science Courses, Language Courses and Trips!
Registration is EASY - 
by FAX, phone, mail, or in person
INTERESTED?CALL 1-800-283-3853
for your complete 
SUMMER 1992 INFORMATION PACKAGE
wide open this year because PiKA and Spirit dont have the push teams that they normally do. Because of the weather the groups who get a lot of practice havent gotten the amount of practice that they feel comfortable with, says Lenga.
Buggies: Recycler (91) 
Sigma Tau Gamma 
Changes: None 
Predictions: Were lookingfor a top 20 or 25 finish, says Sig Tau chair John Heyel, Were out to establish a basis. Heyel predicts that PiKA will win this year. He says that the freerolls that they had have been good.
Buggies: Vindicator (90)
Pi Lambda Phi 
Changes: None 
Predictions: Buggy chair Bill Ommert predicts that PiLam will do better than last year. At this point, the biggest competition is ourselves. Were just trying to do better than what we did last year. He thinks that Spirit will win Sweepstakes 1992.
Buggies: Legend (84)
Phi Kappa Theta 
Changes: None 
Predictions: Were lookingfor a top 10 finish because we have areal fast push team, says chair Cyril ONeal. ONeal feels that PiKA will win this year. He says that the biggest problem this year has been the weather.
Buggies: Secretariat (90), Cen
tennial (89)
By MARNI BLAKE
Tartan Staffwriter
The School of Urban and Public Affairs (SUPA) will present a symposium on today and tomorrow to honor the late Senator H. John Heinz III. The theme of the symposium is Continuing the Vision. The event will focus on issues that were close to John Heinzs heart, explains Angela Burrows, SUPAs director of public relations.For this symposium, we have chosen two of the many issues we shared with the Senator: environment and international trade policy, said Dean of SUPA Alfred Blumstein.Since SUPAs beginning, Heinz was an advisor to the school, and he was a member of the SUPABoard ofVisitors when the board began in 1984.Heinzs death was a shock, says Blumstein. Rather than a passive memorial, we wanted a living memorial to the work of John Heinz. SUPA sought the help of the Heinz family to find speakers who would offer competing academic perspectives on the symposiums issues.Senator A1 Gore (D-Tenn) and
Teresa Heinz, wife of the late senator, will open the symposium, which will begin at 7:45 pm this evening at Carnegie Music Hall. Gore will speak on Continuing the Vision of John Heinz, and Heinz will speak on the Window on the Future. Harris Wofford, Sophie Masloff, and Fred Rogers are also expected to attend.The schedule for tomorrow will include panels focusing on the environment and international trade policy. Robert Stavins of the Kennedy School of Harvard University will be the keynote speaker for the first panel, Stimulating Environmental Responsibility Through Economic Incentives: The Next Steps. Stavins worked on Project 88 with Heinz, developing ways to use economic incentives to preserve the environment.Participants in this panel will include Lester Lave of Carnegie Mellon; Daniel Dudek, senior economist with the Environmental Defense Fund; Robert Hahn of the American Enterprise Institute and adjunct professor of economics, Carnegie Mellon University; Philip Masciantonio,
vice president for environmental affairs, USX Corporations U.S. Steel Group; and Edward Rubin, director of Carnegie Mellons Environmental Institute.The panel will run from 8:45 to 10:45 am in the lecture hall of The Carnegie.Robert Reich, also of Harvards Kennedy School, will be the keynote speaker for the second panel, American Competitiveness, Industrial Policy, and the End of the World.Other participants in this panel include William A. Reinsch, who served on the staff of Senator Heinz and is currently a legislative assistant to U.S. Senator John D. Rockefeller (D- W Va), Richard Simmons, chairman of the board of Allegheny Ludlum Corporations, and Carnegie Mellon faculty members Bennett Harrison, Richard Florida, and Allan Meltzer.This second panel will run from 11 am to 1 pm in The Carnegies lecture hall.Anyone may attend the symposium. Reservations are required and may be made by calling 268-2162.
STUFFED
The godfather of pi//d lives <u Giittili/j'. Chicago style, stuffed with 3 cheeses and spices, lopped 
with chunky sauce -md MOKE cheesel Plus, "stulfers" lo ml*, match or build your own.
sss*conPut
Have a blast every time you use your Macintosh. Try out MacFunware, an innovative software distribution service designed exclusively for Apple Mac users. Each month, youll receive a floppy diskette chock-filled with the latest in entertaining shareware and freeware. For this months copy, send two first-class postage stamps and a Mac disk (preferrably not blank) to:
RDA'BOpalS644
xluyylvvl
Make the Smart Move
)lyv u viAM( 9ig/ ;livJ Vlym(l 
uy6 1lv u 10 6tmMgAyv gy wgAi ylv 6uoow gi gyL Huw viAM( ilyvuos
K>
Hertz
PtFNSKEK>
DISCOUNT DISCOUNTTruck Renta!
S99gi6u-ols ylHs Moluy viAM(m 
uv Mgyzlytlyv ogMuvtgym
Free Unlimited Mileage for One Way Rentals
Convenient Coast-to-Coast Locations
Top Maintained New Models
A/C and Automatic Transmission
Hours:
Mon. thru Frl. 7 AM - 5:30 PM 
Saturday 8:00 AM -1:00 PM 
Sunday by Appointment Only
JOHN STUCKERT 
412/621-0103
Hertz
PBNSKf
ThsJci anc^j
3200 Fifth Avenue 
Vtvvm-Ai1Uh VS $k0$Q
SHORT & SUITE
SHORT TERM LEASES 
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 
1 OR 2 BEDROOM 
APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From $47 per day (on a monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering machine too!), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCR, all linens, completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and concierge services available.
(^luulyi>0hm
(412) 441-4444 5405 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232 Toll Free 800-767-8483
SummerHousinginNewYork
City
;gAmty1 uzutou-ol 
ruw 0C4SA1Amv $k
For more information 
and an application, 
call toll free
1-800-282-4NYU 
Ext. 776
New York University is an affirmative 
action/equal opportunity employer.
Will you be working, doing an internship, or 
enjoying a summer in New York? You can 
live in the heart of Greenwich Village as an 
NYU Associate or take a course in our exciting 
summer sessions if you wish.
 Minutes from New Yorks business and 
cultural centers
 Apartment-style and traditional residences; 
single and double occupancy
 Outstanding sports-recreation facility
 Includes the New York Experience, an 
enjoyable noncredit program exploring 
careers and culture in New York City
 Over 1,000 undergraduate, graduate, and 
professional
courses offered Fo 
day and evening di
New
York
University
N*n eA//li ;gAmty1
3-5 Washington Place 
New York, N.Y. 10003
NYU >''92 SUMMER

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 1992
How do CMU men measure up?
Here at Carnegie Mellon, we are often told that we are the 
creme de la creme. We represent "Hi1ie best and brightest of the people our age. Countless times, fchave heard a visiting guest to a group function or ceremony speak of the great things that you and I will do. In short, the speaker will say, \ve represent the future leaders and inventors of tomorrow.Of course such thoughts usually send others screaming madly into the night as they realize with blatant clarity just who we are and of what we are capable. But none of this junk means anything in the day-to- day experiences we all have. In short, those of us who were fed the lie that we are the best, feel ourselves just struggling to keep up with everyone else here at CMU.But for you men out there, Ive got something to show you. Tired of feeling average? Fed up with being normal? Well then, everyday average Joe, lets see how you compare to the normal man. Mens Health did some research by surveying men and observing some things we take for granted and came up with the following profile of the average American man.The average man is married and 1.8 years older than his spouse. Considering the male/ female ratios at this school, we are far from average.The average man has not completed college ... gulp! What is the attrition rate here again?$28,605 is the salary of the average Joe. Since CMU graduates typically earn around
THE WIZARD OF R.A.
by Christian Restifo
$30,000, we men of CMU are really better than the rest on this one. Of course dramats and fine arts majors, whose work doesnt become valuable until after they die, are excluded from this mean salary.How often do you cry? The typical male cries once a month, compared to four times for women. I guess some of us are just manly men.Has anybody out there been in love? Of course we all have. The average man falls in love six times during his life. Going by this standard, Im half way there right now. If we use the meaning of lust instead, the average CMU guy falls in love six times a week.I personally take comfort in knowing that Im average because I cant whistle by putting my fingers in my mouth. Something tells me, however, that members of the Juggling Club could do it.Hey, Joe, the next time youre in the bathroom, take a look at the toilet paper. The typical guy prefers that the paper roll out over the tube rather than under it. I dont know why, but Im really anal about this one. I will take the time to reorient the roll
to this position even if Im in a public bathroom. At least I can take comfort in knowing that Im making life better for someone else.Feeling kind of aroused? The stereotypical male has sex 2.55 times a week. Dont ask me what the other .55 times represents. I think its either when the man or his partner falls asleep, or its the thing responsible for the .4 in the average 2.4 children that families have. Concerning Joe CMU, however, we merely have to go back to the ratios here for a general idea of how he stacks up.Well, think you can guess what the everyday Steve daydreams about? Yep, sex. Then again, what else is there to dream about....Sorry, I was daydreaming. Where was I? Oh, heres one for all those people looking for Mr. Right. Do you believe modesty is a good trait? The average man thinks so, and this is apparent in the fact that most think they look just fine when they are naked. Then again, the average guy is not a Netreker.Now, on this next point, I will admit that I dont stand out from the crowd. The typical male will not stop to ask for directions when lost. I once read somewhere that men have a better sense of direction than women, but I doubt they have better common sense. Spend two hours in a car with a guy saying, Wait, this area looks familiar to me, as you proceed into the lower part of Mozambique and youll know what I mean.
Esquire also took a poll, ask
Money.
Experience.College Students Just Don't Get A Summer Job Like This
Join Americas Fastest Growing College Marketing Firm.
 Earn $3000 to $5000 this summer. Gain Sales, Advertising, & Marketing experience. Receive exceptional training.
Presentation: March 19, 7 pm, Skibo Room 13 
Interviewing: March 20, Career Center
/o'Campus 
Concepts
312 ri. Charles St. 
Baltimore, MD 21201 
1-410-625-0044 
1-800-743-2220
ing men who they would prefer to be if given the choice. More men would rather be Kevin Costner than General Colin Powell. All I can say is that Powell didnt have a stand-in butt take his place for the briefings during the Persian Gulf War. Given the option of being either Prince Charles or Prince, most men decided on real royalty. Dressing like Prince, rather than being married to Princess Di, is to me the lesser of two horrendous evils. Dont his cheeks ever get cold with those freaky pants?Feminists should note that the average man still has some pretty outdated views. The average guy is still worried about
being macho, and hes still sexist. 70 percent of men would rather be Clint Eastwood than Woody Allen (27percent). Woodys a wimp, anyway. Additionally, when asked how rich they would be if they got a dollar for every sexist thought they had in the past year, men earned an average of $139.50.Something tells me that the average CMU guy could easily pay off his tuition bill if this were really the case. Maybe Financial Aid should start a new program.
Christian Restifo is a junior 
chemical engineering major 
whos content with the average 
parts of himself
MMTE PIZZA
The great white pizza. Created from 
outrageous quantities of ricotta, mozzarella, 
provolone and parmesan cheeses, plus garlic 
and spice, topped with fresh tomato slices.
1922 Murray Avenue  Squirrel Hill 
521-8222 open til midnight - Fri. & Sat. til la.
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER 
SCIENCE 
Early Registration
Wean Hall 4102
Math/CS majors should 
pre-register April 6th to 17th.
(Math, ECE, etc....) 
Any other undergrads registering 
for a CS course should pre-register 
April 13th to 17th.
Questions, Maria at ext. 3040 or 3286
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE IN NORTH & SOUTH OAKLAND
1, 2 & 3 Bedroom Apartments Furnished Laundry Facilities W/W Carpeting Security BuildingH&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7 am-5 pm, Monday thru Saturday

---------------------------------------------------

(DicfQ Im looking 
forward to 
Carnival. 
'Emma: Diek9 you 
can push my 
buggy anytime.
AM I GETTING THE SKILLS I'LL TO EfEOfWEU COMPETE \N A TOUGH, GIOBAL ECDUOW ? I WANT K U\GU- f PANING JOB WHEN I GET OUT I Of WERE/ I WAHTOPWRUHVTi.'
IN THAT CASE, MOUNG MAN, 
I SUGGEST '(OVJ START 
WORWNG HARDER, WUAT MOO 
GET OUT Of SCUCOL DEPENDS 
IN mt you THA CSAI CAE
WUATCUA^ DAO WANTS TO DOING ? I MOW THE LAWN, Wvl SO HES MAKMG ME PICK UPv V STICVCS- J.
HE SMD I MIGHT LEARN SOMETHING ABOUT THE SATISFACTION THAT COMES FROM A TORguii lnau
kmJ'J 
11 JW
Tms ARTICLE SMS THAT B1 AGE 5W, MOST CHILDREN HAVE WATCHES) SOOO HOURS OF TV - A QUARTER OF THE\R
& HAVEHT WATCULD THAT HVJCHi THINK OF AIL THE. GREAT SHOWS I'VE MISSED/ I'VE BEEN , DEPRWED OF CULTURAL. f REFERENCES/ IM IGNORANT 3 OF COUNTLESS AMAZING PRODUCTS/
I THINK OUR NEWSPAPER HEEDS A NEW ADVICE COLVJMMST, So I'M APPLYING FOR THE JOB.
Calvin und llobbeH is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Press.
THEY'RE THE OPPOSWON RESEARCH SPEOALIST5 ~"OPO" FOR SHORT-A CRACK TEAM OF DATABASE COMMANDOS CHARGED WITH DIGGING UP DIRT ON THE PROBABLE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE!
OPERATING OUT OF THE WHITE: HOUSE, THESE ATTACK MONKS HAVE BEEN GENERATING RAW DATA FOR NEGATIVE ADS FOR OVER A YEAR! yLOCATED IN THE ABANDONED JACKPOT/DOMESTIC POUCY TALKING OFF!CBS... BIMBO ONI_ LINE TWO!
MEET TAD UlANA- JEI/'OMF MAKER., CHIEF OF
opoamRCAMPAIGNS ELTTE npCPFRA- CORPS OF ATTACK
THIS IS WHER5A NEGATIVE CAMPAIGN BE&NS -WHH UIHAT EE ATWATER ONCE CALLED THE 35 EXCELLENT NERDS?! THESE PEOPIB \ ARE THEWHAT WE GENERATE HERB IS RAM DATA, INFORMATION ON EVERY SINGLE ASPECT OF THE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE UVES OF ONE BILL CLINTON!UJE'RE NOT SURE YET. WE THINKWHEW... l0ESTfr TTS FROM HIS 5jL- FIRST TERM.
BASICALLY, UJERE TALKING TO OURTEAM BUSH CAMPAIGN IS MISSIONED "OPC CHIEF TAD TORESEARCH UANAMAKER... THEOPPOSh \VON...
IF THERE'S ANYTHING EmOITABIB IN THE CLINTON RECORD, THESE BOVS WILL FIND TT, JUST THE WAY THEY FOUND mUE HORION, SCHOOL PRAYER AND BOSTON HARBOR IN 1988...
THIS IS ED ZIMMER, HEAD OF PERSONAL , ANOMALIES, ANEW SECTION WEADDED ' JUST THIS YEAR.,.
jr I /
GIRLS, RIGHT, CHIEF!GIRLS, SEE, WE'YE PLACEDGIRLS! A 6RJD CNER THE RJ6HT, STATE OF ARKANSAS... ED?
THE WHITE HOUSE- 'OPOUNIT. AN ELITE UNIT OF RESEARCH NERDS WHOSE MISSION IS TO FERRET OUT NEGATIVE INFORMA- WNON BILL CLINTON...
ED ZIMMER IS THAT'S RIGHT, OPO'S INFIDELTTY ROLAND. BASIC- SPECJAUST, ALLY, MY JOBRIGHT, ED ? IS TO IDENTIFY---BIMBONIC LIABIL... AND THIS SECTION IS OUR WST HEAVILY STAFFED. WE HAVE SIX SQUADS WORKING  ON ACCESSING AND DUPLICATING ^EVEZY PUBUC RECORD jFORTHESTATE I OF ARKANSAS IFORTHELAST . 13 YEARS! 5I
ASTONISHING! QUITE AN OPERA - HON! IMAGINE IF YOU PUT THIS KIND OF ENERGY AND bANPOWER INTO DEVELOPING A POSITIVE PROGRAM FORTHE PRESIDENT TO PUT FORWARD FOR HIS SECOND TERM.
f ANY ) [ LUCK?)\NOTYET, BUT } IT'S HOUSE - I TO-HOUSE.
CXI (3 UJUI
MR. PRESIDENT? YES. TADWANAMAKER COME FROM OPO. YOU IN, WANTED TO EEG TA~ ME? \ /_
I'M GETTING SICK ANDT1RED OF THIS CARPING L/TTIE GU/CDMJNG OUT OF ARKANSAS, HAD ENOUGH i OF HIM. WHAT DO UB HAVE ONAFRAID SO. SIR. HE MADE A STATEMENT BACKING THE GULF WAR AT THEHMM... THETECHNOL- CANTBE OGYEXJSTS, TWISTED3. YES, SIR.
' _ J -
ebury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Cazette.
Whats a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
^Wow! ^Y*pi CameSent you a Jin +^Dcr ^ndell, feajjuj are cutest- knooJ. UU-}- 
o, aft* nos.. J 
N^ftnd So ont
All RlHT/ Pes if reallu.Excellent / Lcr me see. rhrfs Mt^/ /A f s~\ SKt Akln'-rJ San you|{ )\ had a.IswL.. nose. St,cid? So
Ask her- to The. v7 dftric 
--SiO' W3 11 uJ
Dear V/endcl/:T'lis 'S a. chain lc.tfen tlnke ten copies Wse! to ten friends witKiri fen flays and you will hcne ^ood luck- Do (net' break tVie cKain-.-4/1

---------------------------------------------------

it's a cookbook! It's a cookbook!
ed. 1Mortyghon mvq8tol <gl eA99lim ar The. hands 
Of UKe rtoxio\iS ilouvtzlms (So 
to 52lutM<x e'Sewhem plans are. 
beini yPbhb.P86M - A A
u,,^ a.\nuT cl
u c-.'r7 __'
RSt< *In <lmt'30 MA tener :'1g.7 
5enJ it 1" JOE LOGO coHT&ST 
5?5o iCp1ubI .98 #3__________________P/1 IC3J7
Wo; my evil VillaiYi Jumper
intern- in jvch cases /+ 'i 
more eFPectite T repeal r*y 
plor via a. ContT'-vet) dhloji/e.
, i^ith a- Subordinate.  --y
7 (Gh^rTjof^L^ r
gate, } 6iad I ^J&M J. aSKCi) .- / ^*7
with my ftoflaWe \ 
rrans Ffm sri zer, JHgzt6 qusstl <y"lSelf laaK.
Ii<e Joe n^ 3eT '"y 
rMoneyy'
Hg-wa/PuwPHll
PiT^r we rovsr ger nV Joe. 
This S your FVGT 
i7o6Wri. jrep on 7>ie device j 
and J'n roaKe cl circle. 
Inpi'ITToTt The parYv, an<* l'Je 
 ir > tvm Joe. /nTo a_n y 
~ZiS^~I/\ eggplanT.
\4i; Joe / '''ano*-
5+ep 71115 / 
riyi-ftriads / de v'ree? /PL^SM " A-5KET
CbtlLDI?V's HOrtB JATTOOltJCj
jo now Came yo\jTe Tli iig/lM/.1
^eSTRPAl...1rsl pubkyhhnwcLp 5kDv 
'STB'ftl'fouvOoul.DNt deuewt ,1 Tue SpRlHG 6ftftK IV6.HP6 ! )FLORlDft Wfts6flB>Tj ir------'-yBy GARY LARSONBy GARY LARSON
Sjtfty, CokneL X'"e 
ToPTn #e entire SbfP y
/vgy 2KDy1yqeK
VoiiRtwo StevenuRv^ooCwfiTH'., 
' ^ 7 ~~rP (x^EtcSuSf
yU\3jZ^>( P>i.ftU.SI w I V irnfPcwecNouilV, X J \ ftSiuTEHESS.f
WH(iT D|t>')uowm+ STEVE
-^?7toMifenKTffi
A ^ -NST^y/v'K ACf-iKG THE. C4T.
( SPwNCrL/
7P^?oin^ov*3T WVSsS^K"IWK OFCLfiSSS^.   jX TusT FiNiiHEi) V0U<1
IPHHS\C5 PROeLEMi.. . r
$0, ffow LOfJG- 7 C-ftM 'I ou STfrjWell, here we are, my little chickadee.Custers recurrent nightmare
DAGZI
MTOFC
RU 8 K Q w
0?wr.lfl,fI.Ot.T
Hiu.D ** to
(4weuu
LOVE SECQETlilb: Bl=oCe besikJ^iOG am ARGufAE^T, lowers should agj36 o>J 
THEA RNenyarn snoEf fn THpT snTH mpiTBuigl
chd B6 SgTISPlEP.______________
gI THlOfc ice SHOOUO SA3 V QtERftiQtV HrPin.THld65i //ft J^aT WE'LL mr*g QeoBCrJ
l\ ^5, r 1 u smovlp tl, [\ fA\ v/'T oTHta.wuTii. uE'Ce dk, \/ ^ \6cm< CQMPiCTttM H0B. Y
a;SVvllh y
Voluome
8G,I
TEMPoBAB1! Rtutf PoRTMt UoKa-JTnail># ToftMlioso
LovE MAfcE OOCAZ'i KJOfWAPPy. ---------------I----
I I / ( just aecAs. 'N 
I / N 0U FEEL LO^ELy, )\ I I 0kJHAPP^} heart-\ I / BftOfcOo, An3o OePBtSStD\ / f OO6OT MEfl*l dO E /\ -1 A LOSEA. I-----
YouRe SO AFfiAtV? OF LOSING LOWE that ijoo rOEOEft 6T STAftrt AT AUL. I I /
a00 PLONGE ItOTo EOe'i 7l1l5oryed SpSFCI9 TUe expeciwct 
GfcTfctMt t6eer.DUtol zuMuvtgyty1 ty S9itMus VtygMMUtg Uum Utm 
4 ogy1vt/l HtmU vg -l u iluo -gw mA66lyow uy6 
Ayl2lMvl6ow 1iuyvl6h
YIUs vUtm tm Hgy6li9Aos rih .iAly9lo6 Z
GEzl gyow mlly tv u MgA2ol g9 vt/lmh *gA Uuzl Mgiyluo 
MgiiA2vtgy44444fzto lwls rih .iAly9lo6s lzto lwlhI SAlp,10 ;SPepe*.
UJMAT UJAs THE I $ #DO)hP& !QOO <9v!7.c99R$ pcH$$ 
50H 3 oSP bc S-.o 
*R o-)9 MOwDEoH9l(Ta y&>^\~ \\\ rao0 e ft,6nrA\l II \(l ft LQSCR \
zWBB 0*0u4 60 OUT WITH PoAl 
WMC? AE Qka0 ITA81E /cyrcC8
\ \ \ f aouSEE.THESPoE.o'^ 
\\ \ V0u)L S JU5T A s2u1oGC
\\ \ Cf0B- UJH0U6. J-----S
\ mexos^ste^t^ py^
arln giMoUvtG,y )-t-=~ \
you FiJO SoMETXiJG weorOG HtvU .\JetmQwy. ___A
\ I I (JalSa&etiieo
\ / / gC f mi Tc -^r
V/ / 7 jtx COLtEcTIOiJ1 ! y
aoo ALWAYS GET DUMPtO JOsf AS TH0G? ARE STAftTifOG TO (ber ItOTEESTi)^__________
/O \ \ ) G /that U)flS THEZ D rIeP t9IM,f2t9oRX 
] ^ MS EX OF MTiEy
2tZ?Gn Sc+SoV , 
THIS REiAnfenrmP 
IS 0UE. r-^WRSt-qulmh+8Pt Volume8 JUfT AfifO1] ^ UJOt^b -1 OuT^=^0KTm sorry,Ted, bA tonghtX have to wr;+e my favorire dererymT company and fell mem how much I 1
_________ G9Sbc HoPb9 9.9w1fG9H8bft. LOOEfi. u)0*' r MAli A 
COMMITMENT, AJDi)0OCE Too 
5CAEP TO ?o AJyTHIJG ASbc-Tit.
7t chClM Bp1E h inBB9TBE2T,lMuAml wgA /t1Uv se rSvMqMs
A koiftLE oBfmIBsurr
yoo OKjLy oEsie, ed. P.- M6 POOT PESICE 3o0.
DInRI^InMS+l G, 
. 0A1CE ? .
H Av/E aou EVE 
sToo6ht Aoirr T MAftBiAGEf n
; I M LOrJEU1) n: ) 
. ftofcto -HbC LOOtfclEf 
ano PRurre.AT6P8or1 
7 its nor so 8ac za ToIHfqP;fllM 
* \Jo< EfMidG 600P ; -<?444oI(oh4ZJ NOT ' +fSAabhLOot^ 
A Nfn3 
SCAMIC-, ugg8aPIf;duvl ilxlMvtgy otylmPuyvgi -Aiym A2 gy $45O

---------------------------------------------------

Any- WJmH n'K&J vtmici mu nmu Wiemo'Vi- -W~
KlLLiPNE)UW^')'
I JUST C-0T 
A
EH NAME'S Sep a _ ,TRACV! I' V<Tl/Vj( 5TIU. SHOCKED- z/ *&y Df^rinT gL29lstT
B O/ LMM C; T Triis
.vrftoisifr. you n'/iiJr he 
TO VOUWMHILY 4T 
.STRAPPED iNro TNI) 
METfflLL/C CAiE 4NP 
/.IWTtE DMtl A Hiu, 
.MCE DOk/pJ, W >1 PR-v MISCWHWSA HS tmxnui
-~J5 A 8UMCH OF fcofte
l" 1^ m/m ulaw#/.?
POitW,P bIhG.6bbbbbbbbb
kWe. ?la+o <jp&cm\lockedWAS* MATTV WnM tl HUSSAVW evySyDVe
[iUDOENLY...feff^ vS~
m99669-----""CTTrj Sf XALSOAN1.
toioasW0' " 'SgP&mw
Coo^e's oovn 
OoWM\ )
cR MpAY2SR, 21 pfA 9S-r 
21 bnCS 'BACK TO fSAE - X f^GAt-L.'f 'Ol t> - 
(f{6NV^S! V*oW VOvYj
''PUT X JUST STf\9.T\NG 
BA&aUNG, X WAS NERVOUS-"
/'i'OA QEEAT! HEY, 'V'KWOUJ THOSt
STUDENBA (4122)5B 63-6 we aset
I TO GET7 HOW X
I COULfe OUW F'T WOOMWjl
T\<^.e in wfZ 
AS.-n=f~!Jy
VMEU, Guess WHAT7~\^ THE'f STMCTEb MAKES' -mN\ SwftLLER NOUJt 
! CAN FIT THREE ,J 
or. P'* enouiH HWFFlNS lw 
TOASTER 
M10!
ffi.Nl>, HOT ONLY THOT^ 
SoRi-VN 
He^/ 1<ve t 6r to go
^JLX- CAUU^ 
'fOU 500*^1 OKAV? y
% 1 BUw IT, U6WIS. \ 5ne u/alk&p ftu/nv, r feel. 
e.xjlBND6- 1 JWT CJ'N'rBEUEVE .Ht'S LEFT M6, I IA6AN
...How IN LOVE we WERE... AWt> HOVM MUCH 
GL.aF.lft PID FOR h/\E. SHE ALWAfi THOUGHT 
OF tVeRYTHINO..."
'Jve cur vp thp right arm. of 
op YOi/ie SHIR-TS, AWP 
Vfi-CRO STKflPi "A/ j 
ARM P/ECESWoW YOU CAA/ PRmJ 
YoMSSGLF EAS/LY,Vi?lT THE rortiTVejl

---------------------------------------------------

u*m kt a ji>% yuvil IVUMI
r\*-S-B
ifi irvi michaal Board.
episopE. 2.IV- ZF Fxr wpore stxG... 0Y K&J TOAORO
Dicfc So, Emma, what 
was the answer to 
the GWOP trivia 
question?
Emma: DrauGhtWOmanshiP, silly.
trAnsif workers, stirt/m 
"the it* SPP7 of HoPb9 .H9b7P 
o6tT 9w.yP aJcaI SbHo the NHL.
\j-----------^
Second Sports /Minute
In Cross' Country tuition 
91b.bwu$ C 19wP 4bH nPffcw 
H9bP. Hc *1fwrbw (c.bHbcw 
5R 91b.bwR H0bHbcw by &buc 
Hc V 9PTc9y 6Mg$BjBF 
CanjwieMillion
TV<H>~ Second Sports Minute
The Jockey plAyers will dn'v busses And the bus 
drivers will pixy hockty.
In wc Hb*P$ 5cH o ^roi/pj 
will u/Aflt HoPb9 cfy 4c5. fN1T78
----------:----------V---------:
Second Sports Minute
Finally, is entering a
0ffP; licctP9 bw Hob. 
RP19l. race. GHl. Et19 
ufwHPPy to nuke a clean aJP(8 ...And tlwtS .(c9H.8 Necjs fit 11.A
TV!"A WEEK LATf ND A 
CHAWNfL SH0r

---------------------------------------------------

SWEEPSTAKES
FUNDED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEERDS CEREMONY SATURDAY NIGHT
PROMISES FOR AN EXCITING YEAR
BUGGY DESIGN COMPETITION
THURSDAY, APRIL 9 
THE MAIN GYM 
9 AM UNTIL 3 PM
BUGGY RACES
PRELIMINARIES  FRIDAY, APRIL 10 
7:30 AM TO 2:00 PM
FINALS  SATURDAY, APRIL 11 
7:30 AM TO 11:00 AM
It cant do laundry or find you a date, 
but it can help you find more time for both.
, The new Apple' Macintosh* Classic II 
computer makes it easier for you to juggle 
classes, activities, projects, and term papers 
and still find time for what makes college . 
life real life.
Its a complete and affordable Macintosh 
Classic system thats ready to help you get 
your work finished fast. Its a snap to set up 
and use. It has a powerful 68030 micro
processor, which means you can run even 
the most sophisticated applications with ease. 
And its internal Apple SuperDrive disk 
drive reads from and writes to Macintosh and 
MS-DOS formatted disksallowing you to 
exchange information easily with , ^ t, 
almost any other kind of computer. /L_L
And indeed thewillbe
ttlfcWWWWJJ b.UUUUttl'V
In addition to its built-in capabilities, the 
Macintosh Classic II can be equipped with up 
to 10 megabytes of RAM, so youll be able to 
run several applications at once and work 
with large amounts of data.
If you already own a Macintosh Classic, 
and want the speed and flexibility of a 
Macintosh Classic II, ask us about an 
upgradeit can be installed in just minutes 
and its affordable.
To put more time on your side, consider 
putting a Macintosh Classic II on your desk. 
See us for a demonstration today, and while 
youre in, be sure to ask us for details 
about the Apple Computer Loan. 
Itll be time well spent.
Introducing the Macintosh Classic II
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks and SuperDrive is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. Classic is a registered trademark used under license by Apple Computer, Inc. This ad was created using Macintosh computers.

---------------------------------------------------

C)ri
SCOTLAND
ISUAfZP
Ify IruIoa c oi ntes 1000 des,p ni lme qs:niJh Ik PkniC MsRR E2111
WANT TO STUDY ABROAD NEXT SEMESTER?
WANT TO TRANSFER THE CREDIT BACK TO CMU?
(GOOD IDEA!)
YOU MUST USE THIS FORM TO REGISTER FOR THE SEMESTER. 
THE FORMS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL
EDUCATION.
219 SMITH HALL
Iob. uc9* b. wcH -((fbT-5fP Hc HoP gPwH9c yP Ic09. (9cE9-*8 aPP HoP CuubTP cu GwHP9w-Hbcw-f sy0T-Hbcw uc9 Ic09. -((fbT-Hbcw.8
r.P cwP (P9*b..bcw uc9* (P9 .P*P.HP9 -59c-y b8 P8 cwP uc9* uc9 /-ff Tc09.P.$ cwP uc9 a(9bwE$ PHT8D
"fP-.P (9ctbyP -ff bwuc9*-Hbcw -wy -HH-To .0((c9HbwE ycT0*PwH.$ Tc09.P yP.T9b(Hbcw. -wy Px(f-w-Hbcw cu T9PybHh0wbH L0bt-fPwH 
READ INSTRUCTIONS ON BACK AND PROVIDE A MAILING ADDRESS FOR YOUR COPY OF THE COMPLETED FORM.
STUDY ABROAD TRANSFER CREDIT PERMISSION FORM
STUDENT INFORMATION 
NameSSNDate
Home Dept.Major
Additional MalorAdditional Minor
INSTITUTION; INFORMATION
Program sponsor . ^
Name of insftutioru.
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION REVIEW 
Signature _______________________________ Date_______
TRANSFER CREDIT INFORMATION Which semester Is thla transfer credit request (or? Spring Summer Fall 199(Ckrd* me ippropriit* Mmwtar nd provWo lh* yMf)
Student: transfer credit Is awarded upon receipt of an official transcript and only for courses In which a grade of "C" or better has been received. Please have official transcripts sent to the Office of International Education, Smith Hall 219. Your department will notify you of 
awarded transfer credit.
Courses you wish to take at 
outside institution (attach 
course descriptions)
Carnegie Mellon course equivalents, 
or courses for which transfer credit 
may be applied
APPROVALS
(Check with your home department to determine whose signatures you need.)
ADVISOR APROVALS  ... .H oourses taken abroad will count towards youc.major. - - 8q<.. Hajor Advisor Approval_
If courses taken abroad will oount towarif .ypurfhlnon Minor Advisor Approval_____________
Jf ooursestaken abroad wil count towards your addttionaJ major: -Additional Major Advisor Approval
Student aignature
Win: Offco ol IntomaonaJ Education
Date Home Department Approval
Yfcw: Home Dopartmoni Pink: Home Doan
The home department distributes all copies ot the completed farm to the appropriate ottices.
Date
GokJenrod: Smdent
Note: Students attending our Centre de Tours do NOT use this form. Centre 
de Tours courses receive CMU creditnot transfer credit.

---------------------------------------------------

SPOTLIGHT: MUSIC
SPOTLIGHT: MUSICSPOTLIGHT: DESIGN
CMU orchestra goes international
By AARON JENKINS
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editorwith help from their professors. The students received credit (9 units) for participating in the project, were paid for Saturday rehearsals, and received reimbursement for wages lost because of rehearsal time.For the concert, the 76-member Carnegie Mellon orchestra had to be increased in size to make the three orchestras (Moscow, Milan, and Carnegie Mellon) all the same size. Additional players  mostly string players - were drawn from the ranks of recent graduates.The actual concert filming took place in Carnegie Music Hall on February 16. Upon the reverberation of the last note, the audience gave the Carnegie Mellon students a standing ovation.The full house didnt merely applaud, but roared and cheered, says Thomas.The Magnificent Six has yet to be aired. RAI spent two years editing the performances, using the hundreds of hours of film shot, and has just recently finished the process. The premiere show was presented in New York on March 13,1992 showing the orchestra performing Symphony No. 3  which was the one piece not edited musically. There was a Pittsburgh screening three days later in Heinz Hall.[The videotapes] are very well done, and the performances are beautiful. We were very proud of the level of performance of our students, Thomas says with enthusiasm, and everything we have heard indicates that they really were extraordinary.
all the more difficult]. In addition, any educational program requires a lot of implementation, and we still ran our normal education program, since [the RAI project] didnt involve the singers and the producers and the conductors and so on. And to run the normal program, in addition to the [RAI project] was certainly an organizational
nightmare.Rehearsal for the concert took place from January 29 to February 16 in 1990. All of the rehearsals were recorded and filmed by RAI, who funded the entire project and brought two vans of technical equipment with them. The Alumni Concert Hall was used for the rehearsals, and the stage was manipulated in order
to accommodate the filming. The stage was later rebuilt.Students rehearsed for six hours a day, five days a week for the entire three week period and were excused from classes during that time. They kept up in their classwork by working with tutors, obtaining notes from classmates, working independently on course material, and
Jerrys Girls e1fBeE tHnfemeEExhibit presents designers of future
By TINA URSO
Tartan Production ManagerAct II was a medley of songs from La Cage Aux Folles, where Jerrys girls stepped aside to let the men strut their stuff. The costumes for these pieces were absolutely gaudy, fluffy and full of frills. The red spotlights made everything even more ridiculous. Although all of the men performed well in all the pieces, junior Larry Streets performance of I Am What I Am was by far the most engaging, and made a suitable ending piece.The finale, which brought all of the cast on stage in their various costumes from earlier pieces and involved an excellent solo by Balach, brought warm applause and ended the musical in grand Broadway style.Overall, the cast seemed to be very pleased with both the turnout and the performances, and felt the show was definitely a positive experience for both the audience and themselves. Balach felt the audience was really responsive and got a lot out of [the show]. According to cast members, everyone worked well together. No one performer saw him or herself above the others - it was truly an ensemble cast, said Quill. Everyone pulled their own weight and, as Gates felt, did a good job. But Quill was also quick to emphasize that a lot of credit was owed to Irwin, Thompson, and Jones, for the hard work they put into the show.The cast of Jerrys Girls proved themselves to be diversely talented, not only on an individual level, but at an ensemble level as well; and as Josephs said of the musical, and as it was echoed in the minds of the cast and anyone who was lucky enough to catch this outstanding performance, it truly was a great experience that should not have been missed. Be there the next time this group performs.
By BARBARA REYES
Tartan Asst. Art Editor 
& MARNI BOREK
Tartan Diversions Editor
from pencil-perfect hand renderings to human factor inventions. The designs were functional, ranging from a hairdo helmet which created hair styles such as the beehive or long tresses like Chers, to a glove which had a built-in toothbrush and toothpaste tube (now there is no reason for mom to tell you to take your fingers out of your mouth).Freshman Garland Lyn displayed a logo for Eureka fashions. His elements of design, such as the five fashion models and the randomly placed text, worked symbiotically. Other works included sophomore Michele Sarkos intermeshing structure of blocks and circle drawing.Sophomore John Ferris design piece was equally interesting. Working in a small cubicle space he used different layers of color to create an aesthetically pleasing scene that resembled a sunset. Each layer of paper used was cut differently.The display has followed in the footsteps of the other shows that have been at the Hewlett Gallery this year; it leaves the audience with a very positive impression of the people involved. The works displayed certainly foreshadow what can be expected of CMITs design students in the near future. And who knows.... One day you may pick up a product rendered by one of those in- IdividuWhile most of the rest of  us were on the beach or home B catching up on sleep over H spring break, the CMU cast B and crew of Jerrys Girls, a g 1986 Tony-nominated musi-1| cal revue of songwriter Jerry  Hermans work, were hard at V work preparing for their per- 1 formance which debuted this I past Thursday and ran I through Saturday at the I Alumni Concert Hall. Their performance  produced and directed by Christopher Josephs, choreographed by | 
Buddy Thompson, and musically directed by Roseanna Lee Irwin  proved that their sacrifice and hard work were well worth the effort.After dimming the lights for the beautiful solo and complementary choreography of It Only Takes A Moment, sung by junior Amanda Raines, the show turned to a more comic tone, with senior Erin Quill singing an excellent rendition of Wherever He Aint. These two vocalists* later solos were also phenomenal and showed true professionalism.Vaudeville Medley was a particularly upbeat collection of tunes that helped showcase the diverse talents of the cast and, for the first time in the show, allowed the choreography and costume design to truly shine in full splendor. Especially notable was the humorous duet of Quill and junior Margaret Gates, adorned in red flapper dresses. The outstanding interaction between Quill and Gates seemed truly genuine, allowing the audience to feel apart ofthe comic antics.Hello Dolly was a fitting piece for the first act of the i musical revue. The excellent H choreography, costume de- I sign, and ensemble performance of the cast on this piece came together to give a true Broadway
Absolut Vodka ads, Sony Walkmans, Coke cans, bicycles, and CD covers. Without design elements, these items would be non-existent. The future creators of these type of items are the graphic and industrial design majors at CMU. Last week, visitors at the Hewlett Gallery had the opportunity to sample some of the refreshing and innovative pieces students have produced. In addition, other students could observe the interaction between a teacher, designer, and peers during class critiques. In other words, itVas an allowance for outsiders to acquire a general feel about the design class structure.The front foyer of the gallery was separated into two parts. On the right-hand-wall colorful visually-striking graphic design projects were exhibited. Some students experimented with CD covers for such musicians as Louis Armstrong and Cecil Taylor. Elements of jazz were incorporated into the works of some by giving the impression of rapid movements of music lines. Others altered the typical calendar by blowing the stereotype out of context.In some instances, the number of the days were strategically placed within the text on the calendars. For example, one calendar piece moved away from the usual typographical placement of days of the month by squeezn g the
mid days of the week between the 1 arger r epres entations of the first and last days.The other displays in the front foyer were dedicated to industrial design pieces. Junior Sean Pempels cellular phones moved away from the usual box-like formations. It seemed as if his streamlined models were specifically designed to contour to the hand. The phone could easily be cradled in ones palm. Junior Youngmihn Kim had three kid cameras on display. The purpose of the design was to create a camera that was colorful enough to attract a childs attention and allow him or her to recognize the different parts of a camera.The main gallery held the larger part of the exhibit. It housed the works of freshman to senior design students. During many of the gallerys hours, students presented their ideas for projects and finished works. They proposed such thought- provoking creations as electronic sinks.Displayed on the ^wall of the main room were art pieces' varyn g
musical feel. The comical additions, like the audience singing along and the introduction of male vocalists, juniors James Flick and Stephen Neely and senior Kevin Quigley, in Chippendale vests and bow ties helped pull the audience into the act.The next act carried much of the same energy, opening with a cast of women dressed in colorfully contrasting and sexy- looking dresses, which really added to the playfulness of the act. Junior Theo Frieds entrance at the end as an aging, not-so-sexy stripper prima donna was hilarious and well- performed, showing that she too would be another one to definitely watch for the rest of the show.The performances in Act II were equally as enchanting and actually continued and surpassed the stage lighting effects found in the first act. There was a grand performance of Mame, which included a full cast supporting Fried as the intoxicated Mame.One of the most interesting lighting effects was found in the Movies Medley, which opened up with a very to-I
gether, beautifully balanced, and well harmonized chorus of juniors Nancy Balach, Gates, Valerie Komar, Suzanne Sacco, and Valerie Stadler. A very inter- esting strobe light ef- feet was used on the cast to simulate old picture movies, which ended up working really well.
" The last piece in
DIVERSIONS

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 1992
Marvels Cage rises to power once again
; Marvels seventies revival continues full force this spring with the rebirth of Marvels hottest action hero Lucas Cage. 
Cpgeooh, the very name sends tremors down my spine, is bul- lert proof, super strong, and politically correct too! Hero of the iijner city! Role model for lost yQuth! Lucas Cage rises once again from the ashes of his long defunct buddy comic Powerman 
atyd Ironfist to bust heads for tl|e American dream. Ah, but ypu better not call him Power- mjan anymore or hes liable to grimace and yell DONT CALL M(E THAT as chains explode abound his neck.; Its easy to understand why tfyis man is so tortured with hate aijid resentment. Framed for a cijime he didnt commit as a youngster, our pal Lucas Cage (v(rhose real name is shrouded in iriystery!) was sent to the Big House. There he was offered a
COMIC RELIEF
by Waseem Hussain
chance at an early parole, if he accepted the mad scientists offer to use him as a guinea pig in their diabolical experiment. Soon after, the 98 pound weakling found himself transformed into Cagel He busted out, cleared his name, and started his own business called Heroes for Hire with his kung fu pal, Iron Fist.When his buddy comic got cancelled a few years ago, Iron Fist supposedly died and again he was framed for his murder. He had lost everything!
f
f,
f 'Lm 
W
Ji
m'
Cage mUgHm g99 HUuv u otvvol Hgi(ty1 gAv Muy 6gh
courtesy Marvel Comics
But thank God his name was cleared once again, and he has risen from the ashes. In his new title, hes still a raging hero for hire when hes approached by an upstart Chicago newspaper.The newspaper forms a partnership with him. He gives them exclusive story rights to his action-packed misadventures and he gets paid a lot of dough, thus setting the premise for the book.The first storyline deals with some mob guy and his vicious diamond-studded bodyguard (whom Cage fights again and again). Yawn. Sometimes you just have to deal with the conventional.There are some highlights, however. The creative team on the book is very young and inexperienced, which is a good thing. Dwayne Turner turns in very sharp, slick artwork.Though the writing is painfully trite, scribe Marc McLaurin
is young and has introduced a large supporting cast for our" bruisin hero. Indeed, if the book were to turn into a character study, it could be very interesting and novel. But Marvels got its priorities to maintain, after all, Cage is Marvels HOTTEST action hero! If you enjoy that kind of thing, this book is perfect... for you!
All comics are courtesy of Mar
vel Comics.
Tartan Senior Staffwriter 
Waseem Hussain is a senior bi
ology major who hates to be 
called Powerman too. Grrrr! ,
Government Books & More!Send for your free catalog
Free CatalogBox 37000 
Whshingfon DC 20013-7000
.eAtEAen fnetE tie puBem Mpie em!pOtoNe BAtm meC -3 EfBpME
The spring slate of new network series is upon us. It started several weeks ago, with less- than-watchable entries like 
Scorch and Fish Police, and improved a bit with the over-hyped (and under-viewed) Young Indi
ana Jones Chronicles.Lost in the endless promotions were the premieres of two appealing comedies. One, ThePowers That Be, attempts to bring back political farce  with limited success. The other, Room 
for Two, sticks to the tried-and- true, but still manages to entertain.Last summer, legendary producer Norman Lear flopped big- time with his super-slow Sun
day Dinner. He seems to be getting back on track with The Powefe That Be though. Focusing on sl>w-witted Senator William F. Powers and his mostly hateful family, this satire is always outrageous and sometimes funny.Powers, portrayed by Dynasty a^um John Forsythe, is basically a nice guy with high ideals who lets others run his political (and personal) life. The woman behind the man is nasty wife Margaret, played to the hilt by Holland Taylor. Alternately sdreaming, bawling, or silently conniving, Margaret always manages to get her way. The similarities of this couple to a certain pair of ex-White House dwellers is too obvious to even mention here.'.The two elder Powers seem relatively tame next to the supporting cast. Spoiled daughter
THE LAUGH TRACK
by A. Franklin Wheeler
Caitlin is basically Stephanie Vanderkellen with no ego. Yes, its as frightening as it sounds. Her husband, Theodore, is a miserable shadow of a man who makes half-hearted suicide attempts at every opportunity.Bradley and Jordan, Powers assistants, are image junkies who always have portable phones at their sides. They hope to succeed by using Powers, in more ways than one  Jordan is having a not-too-secret affair with the Senator.In the premiere, New Yorker Sophie Lipkin shows up at the Powers house, claiming to be the Senators illegitimate daughter. Possessing the tact and social grace of a walrus, Sophie is shunned by everyone except the Senator, who appreciates how real and honest Sophie is. Her presence in the house provides yet another source of tension for family members.There are moments of inspired lunacy. Margarets sadistic treatment of meek maid Charlotte is so ridiculous that its funny, and Theodores inane attempts to end his life offer up a couple of good guilt-ridden
laughs per show. In a recent episode, Theodore accidently shoots the Senator while fondling a gun. Everyone frantically tries to come up with a good story for the press, completely ignoring the bleeding Senator on the couch.Unfortunately, such situations as the one shown above are far and few between; they are surrounded by spurts of uninspired dialogue and uncalled for overacting.
The Powers That Be has all the ingredients for success, but so far it has failed. This is a show that doesnt know what it wants to be. Combining the wide-open slapstick of Soap with the political humor of All in the Family seems an impossible, and not very desirable, task.Lear wants each of his shows to have a lesson. On his 70s sitcoms this worked. We laughed at Archie Bunkers ignorance and learned something at the same time.But The Powers That Be is different. It is a farce. The comedy is obvious, the situations are outlandish, and the characters are nothing more than caricatures. To succeed, this show needs to concentrate on the comedy and leave its conscience behind.While The Powers That Be offers viewers something a little different, Room for Two doesnt promise any surprises. This is another in a long line of standard sitcoms with well-worn plots and almost identical char
acters. Still, that doesnt make it bad by far.Linda Lavin stars as widowed Edie Kurland, who in the opener visits her daughter, Jill, in New York City and ends up getting a job on the morning news show that Jill produces. Its been a while since Alice, but Lavin hasnt lost the independent flair that made that program so enjoyable.Edie is a woman who is finally
bit well. Needless to say, Jill is concerned that her mother will end up taking over her new 1 i fe in the big city. The tension between the two is just as obvious as their love for each other. Edie claims shell find her own place, but the title (and the rules of Sitcomland) implies something else.The secret to any successful sitcom is a strong ensemble cast, and Room for Two boasts a zany
beginning to live for herself. She gets the job by criticizing (from the audience) a fashion designer for ignoring what women really look like. When the designer tries to give Edie a makeover, the horrendous results only prove her point: the clothes he designs are unfit for most women.As Jill, Patricia Heaton seems rather nondescript next to Lavins outspoken Edie, but she does the exasperated daughter
crew. Bonnie Bartlett (an old favorite from St. Elsewhere) stands out as the morning shows dry-witted, no-nonsense executive producer. The shows anchor is a swelled-head Ted Baxter type whose ignorance is sure to account for a number of one-liners.There is nothing spectacular about this show. Admittedly, its nothing new weve seen similar situations on programs like 
Coach, Major Dad, Evening
Shade, The Golden Girls, Empty 
Nest, and just about every ensemble sitcom since The Dick 
Van Dyke Show.But Room for Two doesnt claim to be new or different. Traditional doesnt necessarily mean bad.What it boils down to is this: 
Room for Two is an entertaining program. The actors are good, the characters are likable, and the writing is top-notch. Who cares if weve seen it before? If- we laugh, then its done its job.Id really like to like The Pow
ers That Be. At its best, it could deliver laughs at the velocity bf' 
Soap and bring farce back to the forefront. Right now, though, its just something different a strange mixture of ribald humor, preachiness, and general confusion. For an offbeat show to succeed, it has to be pretty fantastic. Powers just isnt there yet.
Room for Two, on the other hand, has already succeeded. It provides a solid (if predictable) half-hour, with stock characters, familiar situations  and funny lines.
Powers cant deliver what it promises; Room promises little and delivers a lot. For now, Id rather spend an evening with Edie and Jill: theyre less inventive, but a lot more entertaining.
Senior staffwriter A. Franklin 
Wheeler is a senior professional 
writing major who is searching 
for TVs new Laveme & Shirley.
It is with great pleasure that the Housing Office staff announces the 1992- 
1993 Residence Life staff:
Resident Assistant Staff Members
Michael BeardVishant Bhatia*Travis Bish*Jennifer Bjurling*Mandy Brown*Trinette ChandlerGhim-Sim Chua*Mayuri Chhotu*Aaron Coday*Michele ComJessie Cutting*Miriam Dameron*Peter Dauterman*Mark Denny*John DiCosolaEugene Gan*Jennifer GaspariSarah GibbyBeatrice GuilleuxAsheesh GuptaSara Hayutin*Kathleen Hollendonner*Lisa HossainiNathan Houser*Roy HuangSheree HutterChris KimLisa Komenda*James Kuo*Lenna Kydes*Chris LacenereSanjay LallErik LarsonJenni LeeKristen Lepage*Octavio LubranoAlex MacdonaldCourtney MacdonaldLarry Mathers*John Matoney*John McGoldrickColleen McGrathLaurie Modell*Pankaj Mody*Amy Montanelli*Sharon Morgan*Mike MullerStephen NeelySean OBrienAmy Potthast*Jeffrey PeirceBilal RashidAlbert Robertson*Suzanne Rothfeld*Courtney SchlissermanMitch SebringGeorge SegedaDolly ShenMark Smith*John StevenTodd SwansonKara Teklinski*Chris TeslukJeremy Toeman*Pragya TravediColmar Tucker*Nick Tuli*Cami Van Dyke*Karthik Vasudevan*Satyan WadhwaEvan Wahl*Jon WalshMatt Willard*
Program Assistants
Michael EwedoshNatalie GesmondGeoffrey SouserAymerik Renard
Community Advisors
The Community Advisor is a new position for the 1992-93 year. CAs will coordinate the 
efforts of small groups of 4 to 6 RAs in an effort to provide increased contact and supports 
service to area residents.
Charles Beyer
Brenda Burke Emily Leon
Fernando DeGuia Rosemary Green Cory Jacques
Desk Managers
Terrel Dean Kristy Demek Matt KelleyKurt Schlegel
^Indicates a new member of the Residence Life Staff.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 1992L13
More hole than bagel at Schwartzs
EXPLORING PITTSBURGH
eoU&icte
By MARNIBOREK
Tartan Diversions Editor
Being from New York and all, Im choosy about a lot of culinary treats here in Pittsburgh, namely pizza, Chinese food, and bagelsespecially bagels. New York bagel shops are some of the mo^e interesting places to visit. Theyre always small, crowded, and overheated. But no matter how poor of an atmosphere this may seem, customers are always assured hot bagels with a crust thick enough to enjoy, but not so thick as to prevent getting at the soft inside easily.Pittsburghs most recently opened bagel bakery in Oakland, Schwartzs Bagels, takes a completely different approach in serving up its bagels. Although the-eater/s idea of a sit-down bagel place might seem appealing to those who have had a busy day shopping in Oakland or elsewhere nearby, the product isnt worth the atmosphere. Maybe Im .just spoiled, but Im accustomed to more selection and larger bagels.Schwartzs has the typical variety of bagelsplain, pumpernickel, poppy seed, sesame seed, gayjic, etc.  but where are the egg, the Russian, the bran? When bagels are your main selling, item you have to appeal to customers by offering a mid to large selection. Also, the bagels, made on the premises, are some- w^t smaller than the ordinary
Dunkin Donut. I could get a package of Lenders Bagels from my supermarkets freezer if I wanted bagels that could easily be plopped into a small cereal bowl. The bagel is supposed to get stuck on top of the bowl!Plain, the bagels arent very tasty, but Ill give Schwartzs credit for knowing how to put a little meat onto their bagels. Customers have choices of toppings ranging from the conventional cream cheese to hummus. For those who want a little taste
butter which has more butter than bread is not worth the threat to your cholesterol level. I had to use the Meg Ryan tactic from the movie When Harry Met 
Sally and ask for the butter on the side in order to assuage my fears of clogging my arteries farther.This is not the place to order your usual type of bagel sandwich. Your taste buds will not sing with excitement from them. If you are going to spend the money, get the hummus or the tuna.Perhaps after establishing themselves a little bit more,
Hsin-I Chow/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Schwartzs serves up a small selection in Oakland.
of deli, theres the roast beef or turkey bagel sandwich. The most delicious bagel embellisher is the white fish salad, which is neither too salty or too smoked.The prices are about average at Schwartzs, but one expects more for what they are paying. Seventy cents for a bagel with
Schwartzs will concentrate a little more on making bagels and a little less on seeing how many tables can fit into their large bakery. If Im in the mood for a bagel, Ill go down there just to satisfy my needs, but otherwise, Ill wait till I get back to good ol New York.
Premiere showing at the Showcase East 
Wednesday, April 15 at 7:30 pm. 
Stop by The Tartan for free tickets
BASIC INSTINCT
(plot)^^
The controversy surrounding 
Basic Instinct is well deserved. All the villains and potential villains are lesbian or bisexual, and all the good guys are heterosexual. It also happens that none of the good guys are women ... hmm. I dont want to go into all the social implications of the movie, though, so Ill just say a few words about the picture.
As whodunits go, Basic In
stinct isnt bad. The big problem with it is that it doesnt conclusively tell you who did it. The last scene is gratuitous, existing only to confuse the audience. The movie should really end earlier, when the person all the evidence points to is killed. The script could use some work, too. Lines like, Shes evil! Shes brilliant! just didnt make it Even with its problems, this is one sexy movie. In the Broadway musical City of Angels, one character says about a titillating movie scene, There wont be a dry seat in the house!  thats what Basic Instinct is like.
STUMPED?
Theres lots of flirtation, seduction, nudity, sex, and sado-masochism. I have to admit, I enjoyed it. Heidi Hoover
FRIED GREEN 
TOMATOES
. ????
The film Fried Green Toma
toes is a simple but classy film, examining the friendship of two women, Idgy and Ruth (played by Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary Louse Parker), in postwar Whistle Stop, Alabama.The film celebrates the strength of women in an era when women werent known to be strong, and cherishes the strength women find from each other. From combatting a husbands physical and mental abuse, to battling racism against the abominable Alabaman Ku Klux Klan, the movies protagonists prove victorious against the most harrowing odds, and run their own restaurant all the while.Surrounding the inner tale is the story of another blossoming friendship  between Jessica Tandy, the aged Idgy, and the younger Kathy Bates, whose character is a frustrated woman strugglingwith questions of self- respect, and searching for answers to what seems a cold, topsy-turvy world.
Fried Green Tomatoes captures the robust earthiness of the South and touchingly portrays the lives of a few of its natives, with commendable performances by the films stars and director.
Amy Potthast
Are you having trouble deciding what classes to take next 
semester?
Would you like to have more variety in your schedule?
-aGSyuToN AGLI-uyT m S FoIyufOuTy"HGaayUoa2AGaUf-5 AxHyEeyP 
SP ouIf-u fGNNyu mT 1Ofa UOO30oa 5yNN8 f-T DIfy uouyx IuG oNSouo3O 
7u-Ly 7OXNyGIayu DyN0yu 7yuaTIyGa 7fNN HGaayUoa FoNIyu LO7NyaZ T!1Ofa H-TLO
fGNNyu o -aGSyuToN uyNyoTy
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbA l A e AppA 9H62-8sw/ V6TS sT9f6dsN 6cVR $5 UMT,T0ut,
1991 SBK Records ing to say is beyond me.After listening to the CD, I figured out the meaning of the covers imagerythe compilation of songs has an instrumental background reminiscent of The Doors.Most of the songs are structured very similarily; if youre into that, youll love it. The drum line seemed erratic at times, but somehow still worked with other elements to make a rhythmic tune. The song en-, titled Theres No Other Way is an example of this style. It casts a mellow undertone with a different kind of dance beat.All in all, the music of Blur grows on you, in a fuzzy way. If not, you can always program repeat for Theres No Other. Way. Barbara Reyes
BECOME A PHILOSOPHER !
BLUR
Leisure
???
My first impression of this CD was ambivalent. The cover is unique; its a portrait of a woman from the 30s wearing a swimming cap. But what allegorical message the band is tryVisit the Department located at Baker Hall 135 (x8568), to discuss PHILOSOPHY!
The Philosophy Department is offering a diverse selection of courses in ETHICS, LOGIC AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, and 
COMPUTATIONAL LINGUISTICS
ETHICS LOGIC COMPUTATIONALLINGUISTICS
80-241/741 Professional Ethics
80-235/735 Seminar onPolitical Philosophy
80-200 Knowledge & Truth
8.0.-203Minds,Machines & Knowledge
80-180 Nature of Language
New Ma ior BS/MS 5 YR. Program
SJL- 33 Q 80-210Ethics: Self-Paced LogicAn Introduction
SJL-.3UArguments and Inquiry
80-310 Logic and Computability I

---------------------------------------------------

Saturday 4/11 Friday 4/10 Thursday 4/9
Spring Carnival 1992!
Event
Buggy Design 
T-Shirt Design Contest 
Opening Ceremonies 
Bagpipers 
Kiltie Band
Ballroom dance exhibition Anacrusis, jazz band 
Lacrosse, CMU vs. WVU 
Mark Nizer, juggler & comedian 
Scotch n Soda, Jack!
AB Movie: Repo Man Big Daddy, rhythm and blues 
Rides close 
Midway closes
Time
9am - 3pm
11am
4:30pm
4:30pm
5:30pm
6:30pm
6:30pm
7pm
8pm - 9pm 
8pm
7pm, 9pm 
10pm -12am 
11:30pm 
12am
Place (Rain Location)
Gym
Tent
Midway
Midway
Tent
Tent
Comer Stage
Stadium
Tent
Skibo Ballroom 
DH 2210 
Tent
Preliminary Sweepstakes Races7am - 11amTech & Frew Sts.
Midway opensnoon
Arts and Crafts Fairnoon - 5pmCut
Sharon Davison, hand writing analysisnoon - 6pmMidwayHeavy Cats, bandnoonComer Stage
AB presents: The Clarks, band1pmTent
Travis Bish, juggler & magician1pm - 4pmMidway
Mike Messer, musician1:30pmCorner Stage
Minigolf1:30pm - 5:30pmCut (Gym)Vastly Untapped, band2pmCorner Stage
Matthew Ireland, magician3pmCorner Stage
CMU Juggling Troupe4pmCorner Stage
Ballroom dance exhibition4pmTent
Jeff Kunins, musician5pmComer Stage
Dancers Symposium5pmTent
CMU Jazz Ensemble5:30pmComer Stage
Mike Rayburn, guitarist, comedian6:30pm - 7:45pmTent
AB Movie: Warner Bros. Cartoons7pm, 9pmDH 2210
AB Coffeehouse: Tom Acousti, musician8pmTent
AB Coffeehouse: Dom Irrera, comedian8:15pmTent
Scotch n Soda, Jack!8pmSkibo Ballroom
Reality Optional, improvisation group10pm - 11pmTent
Travis Bish, juggler & magician11pmTent
Rides Close11:30pm
Midway Closes12am
Final Sweepstakes7am - 11amTech & Frew Sts.
Midway OpensnoonDrinking Bone, bandnoonComer Stage
Sharon Davison, hand writing analysisnoon - 2:30pmMidway
Arts and Crafts Fairnoon - 5pmCut
SDC Bingo12:30pm - 2:30pmTent
Ballroom dance exhibitionnoonTent
Steve Trash, magician1pm - 4pmMidwayBumpy Toast, band1pmCorner StageBoxxtrotters, band2pmComer Stage
Go For A Spin, free style frisbee2pm - 4pmStadium (Thistle Gym)
Panda the Clown2pmWarner Lot (Skibo lobby)
Sharon Davison, musician3pmCorner Stage
A Phi O Charitable Chairs3pmWarner lawn
Hand to FJand: Signed Songs3:30pmCorner Stage
AB Concerts: They Might Be Giants, band4:00pmCut (Gym)
Spanky, comedian6:30pm - 7:30pmTent
SDC comic: Felicia Michaels8pmTent
Scotch n Soda, Jack!8pmSkibo Ballroom
Rides close9pm
Midway closes9:30pm
Closing Ceremonies10pmCut (Tent)
The Spring Carnival Committee recognizes that this week is significant for a number of religions. Schedule information 
for services is available at the Skibo Information Desk. Spring Carnival is sponsored by your Student Activities and 
Dormitory fees.
NOTE: If you are interested in picking up some FREE WOOD on Sunday April 12th after Carnival, send email to scOv (preferred) or call x2110 for details

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  6 April 1992L15
Thursday, April 9Repo Man
If youre in the mood for an offbeat way to start 
carnival, this movie is for you.
Emilio Estevez plays a wild youngman who gets 
into the repossession business. Harry Dean Stanton 
plays Yoda to Estevezs Luke Skywalker by teach
ing him the ways of stealing cars from people who 
havent kept up their payments. For those of you 
out there who have had cars repossessed, bank 
accounts frozen, or collections agency problems, 
this movie gives you a humorous look at a nolaughing-matter situation.
This movie isnt for everyone, but it is unusual 
entertainment for a buck.
At 7, 9.
Friday, April 10Warner Brothers Cartoons
The perfect movie to appease the hidden child in 
you, and we know that Carnival brings out the 
child in all of us.
Relive those Saturday mornings when you would 
get up before anyone else in the house just to watch 
cartoons. This time, however, you dont even have 
to get up early (but you can wear your pajamas, if 
you really want to). What more could you ask for?
Spending one dollar to become a kid again  
even poor college students like us can afford that.
At 7, 9.
Sunday, April 12Trading Places
Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy interchange
able  preposterous, right? Well, this movie may 
make a believer out of you yet.
Eddie Murphy plays a professional money scam
mer. He places himself in a box on a street claim
ing to be not only an amputee victim, but blind as 
well. When Don Ameche and Ralph Bellamy cross 
paths with him, they bet each other that Murphy 
could never survive in a wealthy environment. As 
a consequence of this bet, their fellow broker, 
played by Dan Akroyd, is put out on the street  
penniless. Aahh ... the games of the rich and 
privileged.
Aykroyds uptight Philadelphia broker brings 
on the laughter when he trades places with 
Murphys dynamic street hustler. Ameche and 
Bellamy are perfect as the snobby know-it-all 
brokers whove never had a taste of their own 
medicine, and Jamie Lee Curtis is hilarious as a 
prostitute.
Who knows ... spending a dollar on this movie 
might even make that Carnival hangover a little 
more bearable.
At 7, 9:30, midnight.
By TARA SEMAN
WRCT 7OP 10
1.UNSANE
2. GODBULLIES
3. UNREST
4. ROLLINS BAND
5. LAWNMOWER DETH
6. SHADOWY MEN ON A SHADOWY PLANET
7. INterJVUX
8. VARIOUS ARTISTS
9. VARIOUS ARTISTS
10. MY BLOODY VALENTINE
stA'SVCM
UNSANE
WAR ON EVERYBODY
BAVARIAN MODS AND OTHER HITS
END OF SILENCE
O CRIKEY... ITS LAWNMOWER DETH
SAVVYSHOW STOPPERS
INter.MIX
DOPE GUNS AND FUCKING IN THE STREETS
LEVER COMPILATION 
LOVELESS
While all of this was occurring, they also created their Dial- A-Song service, which is still in operation today. A regular call to (718)963-6962 in Brooklyn will offer you a new song spe- ; cially recorded for their phone line every day or two. Linnell described a problem with the phone line in the recent press release: A lot of sounds just cant be heard over the phone, and of course if you hit that sustained note which sounds like a beep, the machine ends the song right there.Now, youre wondering what to expect at the concert Saturday at 4 pm on the Cut. According to Flansburghs statement in the release:Most rock shows are very schematic  theyre about bigness. By comparison, our show probably seems very stripped ! down. We wear our street clothes on stage, and we talk to the ! audience. We play a few different instruments to keep things moving along, but we try to keep ! it simple. Wed rather the people notice the words than the laser show. I know Im looking for- 1 ward to this concert. Oh, and I dont forget eveiybody wants prosthetic foreheads on their real ! heads.
OTHER MUSICAL 
GROUPS TO PERFORM AT 
CARNIVAL: 
Anacrusis 
Big Daddy 
Heavy Cats 
The Clarks 
Vastly Untapped 
CMU Jazz Ensemble 
Drinking Bone 
Bumpy Toast 
Boxxtrotters 
Tom Acousti
cpBA 4F0cpnt AHmBE EeiftN KfNNei fm Jack!
By COLMAR TUCKER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
They Might Be Giants to tower over audience at CarnivaB
This Spring Carnival, Scotch N Soda presents Jack!a tale of mystery about death at the hands of a serial killer who preys on prostitutes. This presentation has a modern day Jack the Ripper plot which is just as interesting as the real life mysterious killings that took place over a century ago in Great Britain.The show is a jazz musical written by alumnus Jim Lane and directed by first-year direct- ingmajor Kristieanne Reed. The story plays on the strange mixture of fear and fascination people experience when they face horror.At the onset of the play, audiences will discover that two women have become the next victims of a serial killing. The people of the Red Light District are in a panic about the stalker who wanders the streets in search of a victim. Philip McNeil, portrayed by junior CS major Michael Walker, is a sharp, ruthless journalist for the Daily Re
porter, who coins the nickname of this homicidal serial killer, Jack. The public is fascinated by the circumstances and is eating up the publicity. The police, led by homicide detective Joanna Brogan, played by sophomore H&SS student Beth Chambers, and police chief, Dan Harris, portrayed by sophomore ECE major Jared Oberhaus, desperately search for a suspect. The detective and the police chief are left with no clues as to who this night stalker is.By the end of the musical, the body count has nearly tripled and the lives of the characters are irreversibly altered. On an intellectual echelon, Jack! makes a statement on power and its use as a mechanism of good or evil.The writer, alumnus Jim Lane, was inspired to write this play mainly to make a statement about how the media constantly portrays a partial depiction of news events. He wanted
By DEREK WAHILA
Tartan Asst. Production Mgr.
Who (or what) are They Might Be Giants (TMBG)? We know they are the big band performing during Carnival this year, but what else? Well, they might be rain, they might be heat, they might be frying up a stalk of wheat, they might be brain, they might be washed, they might be Dr. Spocks back-up band, (from the song They Might Be Giants from the album Flood). They might be John Flansburgh and John Linnell (and they are). If that doesnt clear it up for you, then maybe their new album 
Apollo 18 will help.This exciting new album produced solely by the band features some extreme song arrangements, from Dig My Grave, with the vocals recorded through a guitar fuzz box, to The Guitar (The Lion Sleeps Tonight), an alternative cover of a song by the same name from the 60s. On the track, I Palindrome I, they have created palindromes as the lyrics, but the palindromes are composed of individual words (rather than the letters) which are symmetric. An entire verse reads the same forward and backwards (as does the title.) The space theme is carried along by the track See The Constellation, a song about a guy made of dots and lines, and Space Suit, an instrumental piece which closes this incredible album on a more serious note.TMBG have agreed with NASA to be the Musical Spokes- people for International Space Year (ISY). This year has been dedicated by Congress to the celebration of space as an international frontier. TMBG have dedicated their tour to ISY and will be promoting its message of
PUlw rt1Uv ,l .tuyvm uvvl/2v vg
peaceful discovery throughout their concerts.Before the release of Apollo 
18, a CD with four songs was released entitled The Statue Got 
Me High. These included Which Describes How Youre Feeling, a different version than is found on Apollo 18, and an otherwise unreleased track Im Def from their 1985 demo-tap e. Apollo 18 is one of the first CDs to take full advantage of the random feature found on most CD players today. The song Fingertips is divided among twenty-one tracks, and each track is a different refrain from two to seven seconds long. When the CD player randomizes the playing order, the listener is provided with an ever-changing musical collage.In a recent press release sent out by the bands record company, Flansburgh summed up the bands style.
MgyMluo vUlti Ult1Uvh
Essentially were a cultural U.F.O. We dont fit into a trend, and the people who like us like us for a wide variety of reasons. Were definitely pro-melody... We want to take melody back from the forces of evil.Looking back to the 70s, you would find Linnell and Flansburgh as high school friends working on the school paper and recording some songs together. After graduation, they moved to different states playing in a few hobby bands, but in 1981 they both returned to Brooklyn and moved into an apartment together. They began making recordings in their apartment with whatever equipment they could find. By the mid-eighties, the Lower East Side club scene was heating up again, and they began playing with avant-garde musicians and other types of artists who influenced their
Ignatius Sasmlta/ Tartan Contributing Editor 
PUl Mumv g9 eMgvMU ?N: eg6u:m Jack! ilUluiml 9gi vUl 2ig6AMvtgyh
to play on this bias of the media. Lane has had much experience as an actor, but has discovered that his talent lies more behind the scenes as a playwright. Lane is suave, outspoken, and personable. He comes from a theatrically inclined background  his sister is an actress and many of his close friends are from the theater. Especially impressive is that Lane wrote the music for the production, as well as the lines. For Lane, the production is a great learning experience. One must follow his dreams to truly be happy, he says. That is what Lane has done. He has followed his dream and is beginning to see the results.Director Kristianne Reed is an organized, motivated, and energetic person who brings a passion to the stage. She has an encompassing smile and happiness that makes her an easy person to talk to. Reed brings a brutal reality to the musical.
She does not hide the thought provoking message of power and its use. Reed brings to the production an acting experience mainly in musical theater. When she first auditioned to direct this production, she brought with her some reservations as being the only woman to audition. However, she proved herself to be competent and talented when she was granted the position.Freshman directing major Kelleigh Greenberg has stepped into her dancing shoes as choreographer of this production. Before I interviewed her, she was busy perfecting a jazz step. Her choreography is smooth, precise, and energetic. Her professionalism, like Reeds, is reflected in her energy and attention to detail.Greenberg has been stepping, strutting, and tapping her way into her audiences hearts for the past eight years. We might just see her choreographing
other productions in the future  because she has done a hell of a job here. Greenberg enjoys the stage and will be someone to watch for in the future.The cast of 25 actors, a pit orchestra, and an even larger production staff are sure to please. After all, last years 
dArtegan:a requiem was a great success. Jack!is ScotchN Sodas largest undertaking in many years. One of the things that has given this show so much poten- ; tial is the way the cast has got- ; ten to know each other over the ; past three months.Everyone knows each other now. Everyones got their back- ; stage jokes. Its a friendly atmo- : sphere, says Chambers, one of the shows leads.So come one and all to this murderous tale of death and ' deception premiering in the ball- room Thursday, April 9, and clos-  ing Sunday, April 12. Dont miss ' this opportunity.

---------------------------------------------------

/M
numv
Rims
Admission to all DH 2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
Europa, Europa will play each night through Thursday, April 23 at the Pittsburgh Playhouse. It is shown at 7 pm only. Call the Playhouse at 621-6601 for the 9 pm movie.
Repo Man will play at DH 2210 on Thursday. Shows are at 7 and 9 pm.
Warner Brothers Cartoons will play at DH 2210 on Friday. Shows are at 7 and 9 pm.
Trading Places will play at DH 2210 on Sunday. Shows are at 7, 9:30, and midnight.
f
tisiNotices
Foreign Language Tables, in conjunction with the Modem Languages Department, will be held each week in the Morewood Gardens Cafeteria, except where noted. Mondays: La Table 
Franaise (French) from 12:30 to 1:30 pm. Tuesdays: Russkii Chas (Russian) from noon to 1:30 pm. Wednesdays: La 
Mesa Espaola (Spanish) from 11:30 to 1 pm.BentooLunchonihongode(Ja'pa- nese) at noon in BH 160. Please order for the Japanese table Tuesdays in BH 160. Cost is $3. Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch (German) from 11:30 am to 1 pm.
The Legal Affairs Department, HBH157, will have open office hours for students from 2-3 pm each Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from April 6 to May 8. During these times, a staffmem- ber is available to discuss legal problems, such as security deposits and leases, that are related to University life. They will not provide legal assistance for personal legal matters but can make referrals to attorneys in private practice.
CMU Fencing invites you to jointhem, even if youve never picked up a sword before. Equipment and instruction provided for beginners. Stop by the Fencing Room in the Gym on Monday (5:30 pm) or Wednesday (6:30 pm) nights.
The Chess Club meets every Monday and Thursday in Skibo 201 (or ask at the Information Desk) from 7-10 pm. Leam to play or practice your skills with informal games.
cmuOUT will hold its weekly business meeting tonight at 7 pm in BH 254C.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research Group holds workshop meetings every Monday at the Friends Meeting House, and the cost is $3. For more information, call 276-1768 in the evenings.
GCMSO General Meeting will be on Tuesday at 4:30 pm in the Morewood TV Room. For more information, contact Rachel Bourn at x8410 or Beth Moses at x4705.
The Math Student Advisory Council will be on hand to answer questions about schedules on Tuesday from 5 to 6:30 pm on WeH 5409.
The Filmmaking Club holds weekly meetings every Tuesday evening at 8 pm in PH A18B. All are welcome.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 pm in Activity Room B of the CMU Gymnasium. Learn traditional Okinawan Karate. Beginners are welcome.
The Juggling Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday in Grey Matter from 4:30-10 pm. Leam to juggle or try new stuff. Unicycling, diablo, and devil sticks are also available.
The Psychology Club will be discuss- ingschedulinginformation on Wednesday from 5 to 6:30 pm in BH 340A.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm in the first floor conference room of the Oakland Carnegie Library. The group is an open forum for writers, writers-to- be, Pitt and CMU students and alumni. For more information, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett Room. For more information, call x2114.
AIMEs general meetings will be held every Thursday at 4:30 pm in Skibo 13. All majors are welcome. Contact Aurora at x4939 or through email ac3e, if you have questions.
Voices United Gospel Choir holds rehearsals every Friday from 57 pm in MM 210. All are welcome to attend. For more information, contact Tara Haughton at x4580.
Charitable Chairs, musical chairs to raisemoneyfor the American RedCross, will be held on the Cut from 3 to 4 pm on Saturday. Sponsored by APhiO.
Questioning? Positively sure? Come to the CMU Lesbian/Bisexual Womens Discussion Group for friendly talk and fun. Meetings will now be held on Saturdays at 7 pm in the CMU Womens Center.
First Annual GCM Alumni Social Brunch will be held on Sunday from11-1 pm in the West Wing Recreation Room. RSVP by Tuesday, April 6. Contact Rachel Bourn at x8410 or Beth Moses atx4705.
The Cycling Club meets every Sunday at 8 pm in PH 225C. All are welcome.
Alpha Phi Omega (A Phi O), the coed service fraternity, holds meetings every Sunday at 7:30 pm in Breed Hall (MM 103). All members of the campus community are invited to attend.
Sponsoring an alumni event? PLEASE notify Student Alumni Relations Council president Stephanie Horwitz at x8440. SARC will be providing the event information to alumni at its booth on the midway. Look for the Alumni Associations tent at Sweepstakes. Theywillbeservingfreedough- nuts and coffee and will also have a free raffle.
Religion
Culture
The Forbes Gallery Exhibition Schedule for Tuesday through Sunday includes work done by students Charlie Castaneda, Malik Johnson, and Brody Reiman.
Censorship: A Continuing Threat,an exhibit of examples of censorship
and book banning throughout the past 150 years, on display at Engineering and Mellon Institute Libraries through spring.
Books of the Niches exhibit, an exhibit of the architectural books that are serving as sources for the carving of the niches of the College of Fine Arts Building, will be on display on the 4th floor of Hunt Library through Friday, May 22. For more information, call x2451.
Shabbat Shalom! For your Shabbat plans, call Chabad House at 683-7770.
Shabbat at Hillelis held every Friday with a happy half hour (hors doeuvres) at 6 pm, services at 6:30 pm, and dinner following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincycelebrates mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through Friday. Stations of the Cross will be prayed on Fridays of Lent at 12 pm in Skibo 39. Palm Sunday masses are at 7 pm on Saturday and 10:30 am on Sunday in the GSIA main auditorium. Chism mass on Holy Thursday will be celebrated at 10 am at St. Paul Cathedral, and Mass of the Lords Supper and The Mandatum and Procession of the Blessed Sacrament will begin at 7 pm at Heinz Chapel. On Good Friday, the Stations of the Cross will begin at noon, followed by The Reading of the Passion, Veneration of the Cross, and Holy Communion at 12:30 pm in the Wherrett Room. Easter Vigil Mass will be held at 9 pm on Holy Saturday in Heinz Chapel. On Easter Sunday, the 10:30 am mass will be in the GSIA main auditorium and the noon mass will be held at Heinz Chapel. For more information, call The Oratory at 681-3181.
New Hope Christian Community Church invites all students to join other young adults in contemporary, casual, and uplifting services on Sundays at 11 am in the Central Christian Church located at the comer of Fifth and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For more information, call 621-6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Episcopal) welcomes all students to join those who worship, serve, and fellowship there. They hold services on Sundays with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college class at 9:30 am, and morning worship at 11:30 am in their chapel located on the comer of Ellsworth and Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more information, contact campus minister Hank Suhr at 621-4361.
Music
Reality Optional, the Flying Pig Theatres improvisational group, will perform at Spring Carnival on Friday at 10 pm in the main tent.
Lectures
The Magic of Hypnosis will be presented by A1 Fitzpatrick on Thursday at 7:30 pm at Soldiers and Sailors Memorial (comer of Fifth and N. Bigelow). Donations are requested. For more information, call Bill King at 276-1768.
The United Nations and a Just World Order will be presented by Richard Falk, the Albert G. Milbank professor of International Law and Practice at Princeton University, on Thursday at 8 pm in the Teplitz Memorial Courtroom at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law (Forbes Ave. and Bouquet St.).
Carnegie Mellon Trio will perform tonight at 8 pm in the Mellon Institute Auditorium. Tickets are $15 for the general public and $7.50 with a CMU ID.
Bagpipe major Jon D. Fiat will perform and talk about his unorthodox major on Tuesday at 7:30 pm at the Borders Book Shop in the South Hills. For more information, call 854-BOOK
Cuarteto Latinamericano will perform on Tuesday at 8 pm in the Mellon Institute Auditorium. Tickets are $15 for the general public and $7.50 with a CMU ID.
Sports
Support CMU sports by attending the 
home games! For more information on 
all sports events, call the Sports Infor
mation Director at x3087.
The womens tennis team finishes; the season at Duquesne University on Wednesday. Call x3087 for the time.
The mens tennis team competes at Duquesne University on Wednesday at 3 pm and at home against Westminster College on Thursday at 3 pm.
The golf team hosts the Pittsburgh Collegiate Championships on Thursday at Longue Vue Country Club. Call x3087 for the time.
The mens outdoor track team competes in the Carnegie Mellon Invitational on Sunday at 10 am.
The womens outdoor track teamcompetes in the Carnegie Mellon Invitational on Sunday at 10 am.
Bruce Carter, printmaker and professor of Art at Carnegie Mellon, will present his lecture, as part of the Art Department Lecture Series, on Tuesday at 5 pm in PH 100.
The Re-Finding of the Spirit will be presented by Dr. Edward W. Hogan, professor of psychology, on Wednesday at 3 pm in the John V. Hopkins Auditorium in Thayer Hall at Point Park College.
Legal Issues for Women: The Whole Truth and Nothing But ...will take place on Wednesday at 6:45 pm and will feature keynote speaker Miriam L. Gafhi, Esq. The fee is $7; call 421-8919 or 421-8981 for more information.
How to be Happily Published will be presented by Lester Lave, the James J. Higgins professor of economics at GSIA and Peter N. Stearns, Heinz professor and head of history, onThurs- day from noon to 1:30 pm in Skibo 100. Open to all CMU graduate students  free lunch included. To register, call x3356 or hinshaw@andrew and leave your name, department, and email address. Sponsored by The Graduate Student Luncheon Seminar Series.
Dare To Believe 
Let the Legends Live P Spring Carnival 1992 Carnegie Mellon
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submis
sions to: The Tartan, Attn. Calen
dar, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon U., 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send cam
pus mail to Calendar Editor, The 
Tartan, Skibo Info Desk. You can also 
drop submissions via AppleShare in 
the drop folders in the Tartans 
server, Skibo zone. Please limit sub
missions to fifty words or less. 
Deadline is 5 pm the Thursday be
fore the next issue. Placement is not 
guaranteed. Original Vox Populi and 
Calendar entries cannot be returned.
Hey, Phi Kap:How big is the bribe to get this years lame booth into first place? Maybe you should take some of that money and put it into buggy...
Why do those ABM people make so much noise when youre having sex on a Saturday afternoon?
DU We look forward to seeing you in Sing next year TX
Colorado  2 days
WCWYa you know me
Dont let the past remind us of what we are not now.
Yeah, you were right  there was one in here for you...
Jenn,Me and my average sized penis will be on the other side of the bed if you want to talk to us. Chris
T: I am the Production Goddess! You are my Love Slave!C: Uh-oh! Sorry, didnt know you were busy.P: Oh, you had to come back NOW?!?!
PCQ I am still trying to get the dagger out of my back. I guess the Q really is dead. ex-PCS
STBAPWDKWSTBYSF Fizz
To The SU:Tell me baby are you gonna make any other claim, tell me baby are you gonna take any of the blame?How can you expect to be taken seriously? The Pet Shop Boys
You haven't been on the other side of the bed yet.
1. Save The Best For Last  Vanessa Williams 2.1 Believe (When I Fall In Love It Will Be Forever)  George Michael3. Tears In Heaven  Eric Clapton
When I walk down the streets, people will say there goes Roy Hobbs, the best there ever was.
Try this one grandpa.
G.A.M.,Hey roomie, Im a handwriting expert; bring anyone by for me to analyze them (no matter how old they are). Shelley
To the person in E-Tower playing the TV theme songs:You are the last of the studs. Keep it up, and Ill come over and beat you senseless. We hate that crap so TURN IT DOWN!
Flip-Top,You can find me a prince any day (even the REAL Prince will do). Ruprecht
Flip-Top and Hah,Come summer itll be time to pack away your turtlenecks and wipe off the top of the bar. G.A.M.
Roomie,Was he homy?Was he drunk?Was he serious? Chester!
Heather BGood luck on raceday. PH
Spirit,If you look as sorry on raceday asyouhave during freerolls...you dont have a chance... c-ya raceday
WE ARE HUNGRY FOR THE RECORD  tribe from the hills SB
Shari May will be ending soon but our life together will just be beginning. I love you! SAMROBB
Chris Youre getting good at this Walk of Shame stuff. Jenn
In response to charges that Student Senate should raise their own money for food and travel expenses: Senate can raise money. We can raise the activity fee. .
The Condom Fairy and the Condom Elf say you're welcome.
Dont Call It a Comeback Weve been here for years
