Volume 87, Issue 17Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania15 February 1992
Students propose SafeWalk program
Service proposed in response to Schenley Park assault
By FRANK MICHELS
Voluom eSSrSuomu vicS psrudl
In response to the rape on Frew Street on January 
31, David Wolpert, a junior applied history major, and 
Kevin Bronke, a junior mechanical engineering major, 
ent to Scotland Yard to discuss the problems of 
pus crime. At that informal meeting, Wolpert and 
ironke developed SafeWalk, a program which enances the safety of Carnegie Mellon students by 
iroviding escorts for those walking across campus 
luring evening and late-night hours, according to 
heir proposal outline given to Student Senate on 
ruesday.
SafeWalk will provide a male and female escorter for 
every person who needs to walk on campus in three 
minutes or less, according to Wolpert. There will be 
io fee for using this service, said Wolpert, adding that 
SafeWalk will walk anybody anywhere thats on the 
map  from Mudge to the Hill.
Dean of Student Affairs Michael Murphy said, I am 
proponent of the [SafeWalk] program. The caring of 
for the welfare of other students is tremen
dous. It is critically important that our students are 
safe on this campus.
Wolpert said, Weve seen women carrying mace and 
whistles. Women just cant walk alone at CMU, and 
something needed to be done. Thats why we decided on 
developing SafeWalk. Wolpert said that after the 
meeting in Scotland Yard, they talked to Campus 
Police Officer Raymond Mialki, who was assigned to 
deal with the issue of sexual assault, and Student 
Government President Natalie Gesmond, who was 
already planning a program similar to SafeWalk. 
Wolpert said, [Gesmond] was very enthusiastic and 
excited about the program, and offered her support. 
Wolpert, Bronke, and Gesmond said that they hope 
to get the SafeWalk program started by next month. 
Gesmond said, We want this program to start before 
the beginning of March. That means the beginning of 
recruitment. We want to have this program begin as 
soon as possible.... Now is the time for action, as far as 
this project is concerned. On February 1, Wolpert, 
Bronke, and Gesmond met to further develop the 
SafeWalk program. Bronke said, Thats how the ball 
got rolling, and Tuesday, [Wolpert and Bronke] ap
peared in [Gesmonds] place at Student Senate.
[SafeWalk is intended] to deter crimes for which 
students are frequently targeted at night, specifically 
robbery, assault, rape, and harassment, according to 
the mission statement in the SafeWalk proposal. 
SafeWalk will operate from dusk until 4 am, providing 
every person who needs to be escorted with a team of 
two escorters  one male and one female. [Escorters] 
are not allowed to separate unless an emergency situ
ation necessitates so, according to the SafeWalk pro
posal.
Wolpert said that there are three reasons for having 
two escorters for every one person: comfort, liability, 
and safety. Wolpert said that a situation can occur in 
which an escorter sexually assaults the person he is 
escorting, or vice versa. He said, Having a man and a 
womajywould make such a story less credible. There is 
safetyin numbers. Wolpert also said that somebody is 
less likely to attack a trio of people than a pair of people.
The SafeWalk program will have a central dispatcher 
at a campus extension to which requests for an escort 
can be made. According to Wolpert, the central dis
please see SAFEWALK, page 3
U.S.News publishes rankings
By KENDRICK K. CHUA
Voluom vicS psrudl
ntht vicS oms ydlPs aikdlu 
released its 1993 College Guide, 
re-printing the 25 best national 
colleges from its 1991 survey. CMU 
was ranked 19th out of all na
tional schools, up from 24th the 
previous year.
CMU has an academic reputa
tion score of 20, with a score of one 
going to Harvard University, the 
highest ranking national univer
sity.
CMU was also mentioned in an 
article on the growing noed for 
computer technology on colloge 
campuses ontitled College of To
morrow.
The UnivorBity of Pittsburgh, 
main campus, was also ranked 
among tho top 50 porcont of na
tional schools, with an acadomic 
roputation score of 53.
As roportod in Tho Tartan last 
somostor [CMU climbs to 19th In 
national ranking,", 8/21], CMU 
had suporior studont-to-faculty 
ratios and had one of tho highest 
monotary faculty rosourcoa avail
able, as compared to other univorsitios.
However, CMU had tho socond 
lowest studont satisfaction gcoro 
among tho top twonty-fivo schools, 
os well as tho socond lowoBt soloctivity scoro.
Schools were rankod and dividod 
according to guidelines established 
by the Carnogio Foundation for 
the Advancement of Teaching.
Drama ambassador ElizabethKimberly, 92, dies of heart failure
By JASON TOGYER
Voluom huoBBclruil
Elizabeth Kimberly, longtime friend 
of the Drama Department and retired 
head of the costume shop, passed away 
on February 5 of heart failure at Forbes 
Center for Gerontology. She was 92.
Kimberly, known affectionately as 
Bes, began her association with 
Carnegie Tech in 1926 as a student. She 
joined the department in 1928 and over 
the next 40 years supervised the cos
tuming of more than 500 plays. After 
retiring in 1968, she volunteered as a 
special assistant in the alumni office. 
Kimberly edited the Drama Alumni 
Newsletter, and became widely known 
for her annual Christmas cocktail par
ties for the Drama Clans at Sardis in 
New York.
Bes Kimberly founded the Drama 
Alumni Clans. I think that is of major 
importance, said Jerry Adler, head of 
the West Coast Drama Clan and a mem
ber of the alumni associa- ---------
tion executive board. The 
drama graduates are a 
unique group, as you know.
Bob Finkel, a 1940 gradu
ate of the Drama Depart
ment, said that the Drama 
Clans were important for 
keeping department alumniintouchwith the Univer
sity.
She instigated the Drama Clans be
cause the drama students would not 
participate in alumni affairs in other 
cities since they weren't interested in 
associating with graduates of other de
partments like engineering and archi
tecture, said Finkel.
Tammy Hale, director of alumni rela
tions at Robert Morris College and former 
associate director of alumni relations at 
Carnegie Mellon called her the drama 
ambassador to drama alumni.
Her files were really incredible. She 
kept large index cards on every gradu
ate she had a relationship with, said 
Hale. It was really amazing. Those files 
started the drama newsletter.
Finkel said that the newsletter hadits 
origins in letters sent to drama gradu
ates who were overseas in the armed ser
vices during World War II. Her newsletter 
became almost tho bible out here [for 
alumni], said Finkel.
Adler called the Drama Alumni Organiza
tion one of Kimberlys legacies. [It] is one 
of the great testimonies to Bes importance 
to the community. It really created a spirit 
and a sense ofbelonging among drama gradu
ates that wouldnt happen in the normal 
course of things.
Kimberly was one of the driving forces 
behind the creation of Scotch n Soda, using 
her position as head of the costume shop to 
influepce the Dean of the Drama Depart
ment.
My class, the war babies, was an un
usual group, said Finkel. We had many 
students that broke away from traditional 
drama curricula and disciplines. We were 
interested in musical theater and stand-up 
comedy, which was strictly against depart
ment policy.
Bes, for some reason or other, took us in 
hand, and helped us to express ourselves in
There is no other woman like [Kim
berly], I never have run into another 
personality like hers that generated 
such warmth.
 Bob Finkel, class of 1940
these various activities. She fronted for us 
in the Deans Office. She was only the head 
ofthe costume shop, but she had standing....
Her persistence allowed us to produce the 
first Scotch n Soda production in 1938.
You always asked about her. Youd say,
Hows Bes? Did you see Bes when you were 
in Pittsburgh? "said Adler. She didnt have 
any children of her own, which I rather 
selfishly think was just as well, since she 
had more love to give us.
The amount of love and respect people 
had for her was unuBual. Everyone likes to 
think that theyre loved by hundreds and 
hundreds of people, but very few of us are.
I took her her Christmas cards one year 
from the alumni office, and she had 350 
Christmas cards, said Hale. She truly was gone, you say, They had a full life. 
loved by everyone. She w^is so sweet that And she did.
you never heard her say a cruel word 
about anyone.
She was a real lady. Theres no 
other way to say it. She wbb a real 
lady, said Hale.
She was a dear, unusual person, 
said Finkel. There is no other woman 
like her. I never have run into an
other personality like hers that gen
erated such warmth.
Hale was particularly close to Kim
berly. I would take her to get her 
hair done or downtown to Kaufmanns for speciSl occasions. We or
ganized birthday parties for her. 
Kimberly met her husband George 
at Carnegie Tech, and they were 
married for eight years before his 
untimely death. She told wonderful 
stories about him. He was in light
ing, and she was known for using 
really bold colors in her costumes. 
Hed yell down, Bes, do you really 
want to use that color?' and shed 
yell up, Yes, I do!, said Hale. She 
missed him dearly. 
Adler said that if Kim
berly hadnt given me 
the most generous C mi
nus on my senior thesis, 
I never would have 
graduated.
I spent my senior year 
(1953) in Scotch n Soda, 
and I obviously neglected 
my school work quite a 
bit.... She recognized that was a 
learning experience.
Kimberly was the author of His
tory ofthe Drama Department 1914 
81, received the Universitys Dis
tinguished Service Award in 1973, 
and the West Coast Drama Clan 
Award in 1980. In 1979 the depart
ment staged a celebration of her ca
reer called An Evening for Bes, 
bringing friends and former students 
back to the University from across 
North America, and she was awarded 
a doctor of fine arts degree by the 
University in 1982.
Well miss her, said Finkel. A 
few people in your life, after theyre
CMDS employee diesof asthma
By KENDRICK K. CHUA
: Voluom vicS psrudl
Hugh Wallington, a CMDS counter 
worker, died in McKeesport Hospital 
on February 9, according to the 
McKeesport ForPR vicSt He was 24 
years old.
According to Dennis Stanhoff, asso
ciate director of Dining Services, it is 
believed that Wallington died of 
asthma complications. An official 
cause of death has not been issued by 
: the hospital.
Wallington was hired on August 
14,1989. Previously assigned to vari, ousjobsatMorewoodandKiltieCourt,
problems
Wallingtons last job was in the High
lander Cafe.
Wallington was dependable and well 
liked, said Stanhoff. Everybody will 
miss him. All of dining services ex
tends sympathies to his family.
Roger Heydt, director of Dining Ser
vices, could not be reached fori com
ment.
Survived by parents, a grandfather, 
and a large extended family, Wall
ingtons memorial service was held last 
Friday in the Newman-Winston Me
morial Chapel and the Payne Chapel 
AME Church.
Wallingtons funeral was held on 
Saturday.
 Will VAi huNsimu nmrdm continue its 
existence at CMU?
hii koKi 7
 New columnist says that liberal 
expansion of rights isnt really 
expansion of rights.
hii koKi 7
 Womens basketball wins big.
hii koKi M
I CMU junior wins Heinz award to 
study abroad.
hii koKi CH
 CMU student, alumnus, and staff 
appear in the Pittsburgh Savoyarts 
production of ErLosdt
hii koKi wJ
 So what do you really think of 
Valentines Day?
hii koKi w,
fi3 Actor Lara Flynn Boyle plays Kris Bolin, a 
^ temporary secretary who dedicates herself to 
 climbing the corporate ladder In The Temp, a 
I movie directed by Tom Holland. Please see our 
 review on page L8.
Classifieds...........................................13
Comics....................................................3
Diversions...................................L7
features......................................LI
forum...........................................6
Sports...........................................9
Calendar...................................L10
Vox Populi................................L10

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  15 February 1993
THIS JUST IN...
President Clinton cuts Space Station spending by 40 percent
WASHINGTON, February 12 
(AP)  President Bill Clinton 
will slash spending for Space Sta
tion Freedom by 40 percent, forc- ing National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration (NASA) to 
design a facility far different and 
less capable than the one being 
planned, congressional sources 
. said today.
The administration wasnt say
ing, but reports swirled around 
Capitol Hill that Clinton will pro. t pose $1.35 billion in spending for 
the station next year, down from 
I the $2.25 billion on which the 
space agency had been counting.
The reports also indicated that 
, the administration would hold 
, future space station spending, 
which had been due to rise in 
each of the next few years, to
similar amounts.
White House spokesman 
George Stephanopoulos said he 
had no specifics on what Clinton 
would propose but said the Presi
dent wants to do what we can to 
stop any cost overruns and 
achieve the best management 
possible, but he will not cancel 
the space station.
A staffer on a House committee 
that oversees the project said 
NASA Administrator Daniel S. 
Goldin had told the White House 
he can deliver a space station for 
$1.3 billion.
The staffer, who asked not to be 
identified, said, That wont be 
this station. Estimates of the 
space stations construction cost 
range from $30 billion to $40 bil
lion, plus another $100 billion for
operating it for 30 years.
He said that simply canceling 
existing contracts could cost any
where from $500 million to $1 
billion.
More than $8 billion already 
has been spent on the space sta
tion program since President 
Reagan proposed it in 1984. There 
have been a number of major re
visions and there is substantial 
sentiment in Congress for can
celing it.
White House officials declined 
to comment, but VAi yoSArmKudm 
DdSu quoted one unidentified 
Democratic lawmaker as saying 
Clinton told congressional lead
ers that he was troubled by large 
cost overruns in the project and 
would have a very difficult time 
asking for more money.
Pell Grant debts rise
Congress told deficit over $2 billion
WASHINGTON, February 5 (National Stu
dent News Service)  Last month Department 
of Education Secretary Lamar Alexander told 
Congress that the Pell Grant program suffers 
from a much larger deficit than had been ex
pected.
Not coincidentally, the announcement came 
on Alexanders last day in the post under the 
Bush administration.
Pell Grant deficit spending is now more than 
$2 billion, up from the $1.5 billion mark that 
Education Department officials had predicted in 
1992.
That debt is having disastrous effects on both 
the Department of Education and the student 
community.
In the reauthorized Higher Education Act of
1992, Congress slashed Pell funds to single or 
financially dependent students in order to increase available funds for the neediest appli
cants. But a departmental review concluded 
that the cuts did not have to be made after all, 
and the policy was reversed.
That change haB been criticized by some key 
education leaders, including the presidents of 
the American Council on Education and' the 
American Association of State Colleges andUniversities.
We fear that the targeted students represent 
the wrong groups to disenfranchise -the needi
est, the emerging majority of nontraditional 
students, those who geek to work rather than to 
borrow, and minorities, the presidents wrote in 
a joint statement released in late January.
Japan continues efforts to expand domestic demand
WASHINGTON, February 11 (DJ)- 
Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi 
Miyazawa has pledged to continue ef
forts to expand domestic demand and 
implement structural adjustment mea
sures in a message to President Bill 
Clinton, a Japanese foreign ministry 
spokesman said.
Miyazawas four-point message was 
delivered to Clinton by Foreign Minister 
Yoshiro Watanabe during a 35-minute 
meeting with the U.S. President.
According to Deputy Foreign Ministry 
Spokesman Sadaaki Numata, the mes
sage also touched on Japans concerns 
over the possible implementation of 
tougher trade enforcement measures by 
the U.S.
Miyazawas message didnt elaborate 
on specific efforts that the Japanese gov
ernment may implement to boost do
mestic demand or to tear down struc
tural barriers to trade with the U.S. His 
message, however, was aimed at send
ing a signal to Clinton that Japan hopes 
economic relations with the U.S. can be 
maintained on an even keel.
The formor Bush administration has 
been pushing Japan to adopt measures 
designed to improvo domoBtic demand, 
which they argue will go a long way 
toward addressing trade imbalances, 
particularly during recessionary poriods that tond to lead to aggressive ex
port pushes by Japanese industry.
Numata, briefing reporters on Watanabos meeting with Clinton, said the 
Japanese prime ministers message also 
noted that Japan is studying measures 
to recycle the government's budget sur
plus to fund aid and financial support to 
developing nationB.
In addition, the message enforced 
Miyazawas wish that the July summit 
of the group of seven industrialized na
tions, of which the U.S. and Japan are 
members, be business-like without too 
much formality, Numata said.
Numata said Clinton briefly discussed 
trade relations with Japan, saying that 
he was aware of Japans concerns over 
Super 301, a measure that would re
quire the Office of the U.S. Trade Repre
sentative to identify trade barriers and 
to take retaliatory action.
The measure, which had been used by 
theReagan administration, expiredduring Bushs tenure in office. Attempts by 
Congress to reauthorize the measure 
were blocked by the past administra
tion, although are now embraced by 
Clinton.
Numata said Clinton informed 
Watanabe thatSuper 301 wouldbeused 
rarely. But Clinton also noted that the 
measure's importance depended upon a 
nations trade policies.
The Japanese foreign ministry spokes
man said that talks between Clinton 
and Watanabe on the whole were gen
eral in nature and didnt touch on spe
cific trade issues between the U.S. and 
Japan.
Numata added that specific trade is
sues, including details of structural trade 
problems, are more likely to be discussed 
Friday during a luncheon with U.S. Sec
retary of State Warren Christopher and 
U.S. Trade Representative Mickey 
Kantor.
Committee probes Russian farm credits
WASHINGTON, February 12 (AP) 
House Banking Committee Chairman 
Henry Gonzalez vowed to investigate 
the U.S. Commodity Credit Corp. 
(CCC)s $4.2 billion in farm credits to 
Russia, a portion that are now in de
fault.
Gonzalez, a Texas Democrat and key 
Capitol Hill critic of the Agriculture 
Departments farm creditguarantee pro
gram, said that we must tighten up the 
credit standards of the CCC program 
in the wake on nearly $260 million in 
loan defaults by Russia.
Russia began defaulting in November 
on portions of $4.2 billion in CCC cred
its issued to it and the former Soviet 
Union. As a result, the Agriculture Department was forced to suspend Russia 
from its farm credit program, effectively 
choking off U.S. agriculture exports to 
the former Soviet republic.
Gonzalez, who has been investigating 
the circumstances surrounding the 
CCCs $2 billion in loan guarantees to 
Iraq, which fell in default as result of 
the Gulf War, noted the Russian and 
Iraqi credits are prime examples of 
the agencys bad-loan problems.
Gonzalez, who votedlastyear against 
a multi-billion-dollar U.S. aid package 
to Russia, which included farm credit 
guarantees, said he is concerned about 
taxpayer liability and the exposure of 
the underwriting banks, as well as the 
use of foreign banks in this country to
foster unwise programs and policies.
Only two U.S. banks are among the 10 
that had CCC guarantees against cred
its to Russia, although the National 
Bank for Cooperatives in Denver, a farm 
credit institution, is the single largest 
holder of CCC-backed credits 'to the 
former Soviet republic.
However, Frances Banque Indosuez 
was the first institution to call in its 
CCC guarantees after Russia defaulted, 
which in part prompted Gonzalez to 
level criticism of foreign bank participa
tion in the program.
The bulk of CCCs credit guarantees 
to Iraq had backed loans from the Atlanta-branch of Italys BancaNazionale 
de Lavoro. C
General Colin Powell plans to step down
WASHINGTON, February 10 (AP) - 
General Colin Powell said today he 
wants to step down as chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff before his term 
ends but denied that he was in any way 
unhappy, disgruntled with President 
Bill Clintons policies.
Powell, appearing on morning net
work talk shows, also denied a pub
lished report that he wants to resign 
because of impending cuts in the Penta
gon budget and Clintons move to lift 
the ban on homosexuals in the military.
VAi vic WdlL VrjiSg citing unidenti
fied associates of the 55-year-old gen
eral, said Powell preferred to resign 
rather than defend the administrations 
budget cuts, which could range to as 
high as $10.5 billion in fiscal 1994.
Theres nobody over here in a blue 
funk, thinking the whole world has
dropped on us, Powell, wearing his 
Army uniform, said from the Pentagon 
during an interview on ABCs Ydds 
EdlmrmK ejilrbot
Appearing on NBCs VdsoR show, 
Powell said reports of his plan to resign 
apparently stemmed from a conversa
tion he had last year with then-Defense 
Secretary Dick Cheney.
We looked at the calendar for the 
coming year and I said, Well, my term 
expires on [September 30], I might want 
to leave a month or so early in order to 
get my family resettled, and if I do that, 
I will go all through the congressional 
(defense budget) testimony season. I 
will do all the international meetings....
Thats still my plan, Powell told 
NBC. But I serve at the pleasure of the 
President, and I am not in any way 
unhappy, disgruntled, ordoinganything
other than support the President in the 
execution of his policies.
There is no unhappiness or disap
pointment, he said.
VAi vic WdlL VrjiS quotedifnends 
and associates as saying PoweUiidesire 
to leave was reinforced by disagree
ments between the Joint Chiefs and 
Clinton over such issues as homosexu
als in the military and troop reductions.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc.
Layout by 
Frank Michels
Come See In 93
6th Annual
Health & Fitness Fair
February 17, 1993
Testing
body fat percentage 
EKG
blood pressure
cholesterol
hearing
heart risk assessment 
vision
grip strength
Skibo Ballroom 10 am - 4 pm
Consultation
weight control 
fitness 
wellness 
nutrition 
massage
Demonstrations
vegetarian cooking recipies & information 
funk aerobic moves 
tae kwan doo (martial art form) 
shotokan 
dance club 
dancer's symposium
sponsored by Student Activities Fee and the Athletic Department 
Carnegie Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  15 February 19933
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT 
SENATE
Nil
Meeting of 9 February 1993
'Boll taken at 7:05 pm.
Meeting called to order at 7:17 pm.
Senators Present: Albert (CFA), Bhattacharya (GSIA), Blankley (IM), DeRoss 
(MCS), Engel (CIT), Evans (CIT), Fadl (MCS), 
IGoller (CIT), Haverkamp (CIT), Holzman 
(CIT), Jaiswal (GSIA), Knauer (HSS), Knight 
! (MCS), Kopchik (HSS), Leventhal (CIT), 
[ Leomis (GSIA), Martin (HSS), Ortega (CIT), 
f Potthast (HSS), Robe (GSIA), Sollimo (CFA), 
Sfhulding (CFA), Wallhausen (HSS).
^Senators Absent: Tomblyn (MCS).
f
Approval of the Minutes: Put proposed 
poster policy in its entirety in last weeks 
f minutes. Minutes were then accepted.
Audience Participation: None.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Brian Papa): Movies this week are: 
Thursday, February 11, YdPij at 6 pm,.oNSu 
at 8 pmgvdSBilouN at 10 pm; Friday,February 12, FlobNPo 5:45, 8,10:15 pm, 12:30 am; 
Sunday, February 14, Eollris o EdmSuil 
Bldj -Nuil hkobi 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
GSO (Lara Wolfson): Next meeting will 
beiMarch 3 at 5:30 pm in the Tilted Square. 
GSO follows very similar funding policies to 
Student Senate. Wolfson clarified the Coffee
house policy.
Greek Council (Christian Bareford):
No report.
Faculty Senate (Dean Murphy): No re
port.
Student Affairs (Tim Foster): Foster 
gave out a list of different religious obser
vances that may affect student life. There is 
no strict policy regarding scheduling exams 
on holidays, this is usually left to the discre
tion of the professor.
SDC (Scott Curtin): The midsemester 
sKtrip will be March 1. Sex Week is March 
348.' Dr. Ruth will be in the Ballroom on 
March 8. Special Interest housing application'deadline is February 12. There will be a 
blood drive tomorrow 12-6 pm in the Resnik 
TV Room. woSu dB uAi EdArbomS will play this 
Saturday at 5:45,8,10 pm, midnight. SDC is 
against the proposed poster policy.
President (Natalie Gesmond): David 
Wolpert and Kevin Bronke presented the 
SafeWalk proposal outline to Senate.
Treasurer: There is presently none.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Yaman Fadl): There
will be a brief meeting tonight after the. 
regular meeting.
Campus Affairs (Burt Holzman): We
met and discussed student activism. We are 
working on campus lighting and parking.
Funding and Recognition (Dave Mar
tin): Tonight we will be voting on two 
nonfunded recognitions and a loan. Budget 
Hearings start in one week.
Human Resources (AnnKopchik): The
retreat will be February 20 from 10 am-2 
pm in the Resnik rec room. Pizza will be 
served for lunch.
Public Relations (Shawn Knight): No
report.
Chair (Greg Ha verkamp): We now have
10 vacancies on Senate. We received one 
petition for CIT. There was a change to the 
Statement of Assurance. The word activi
ties was added.
Special Business:
Ct vdmBNmsis aibdKmrurdm  En aorPT
ldos PNt
Accepted by acclamation.
,t vdmBNmsis aibdKmrurdmFioui PN
Passed in the eyes of the Chair.
Ht wdom  [,] ud UdbLiR PN
Passed in the eyes of the Chair.
Old Business:
The poster policy introduced last week 
was discussed and amended. The amend
ments were as follows:
Motion to change organization to event 
in line 3  passed by acclamation.
Motion to fill blank in to read to take 
effect on March 9,1993 passed in the eyes 
of the Chair.
Motion to amend office of Student Activi
ties to Human Resources Committee of 
Senate fails in the eyes of the Chair.
Motion to amend Office of Student Activi
ties to Campus Affairs Committee of the 
Student Senate passes 13-7-1.
Amended poster policy as amended passed 
19-2-1, and reads as follows:
1 93S-11 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Poster Policy 
to take effect on March 9,1993
In order to more effectively communicate 
when events and programs are happening 
on campus, the following poster policy has 
been established. The intent of this policy is 
to curtail abuse and ensure that everyone 
has equal access to the bulletin board loca
tions.
An active poster is defined as a poster that 
either lists an event which has not yet oc
curred, or with no effective event date.
A bulletin board location is defined as any 
bulletin board or set of adjacent bulletin 
boards.
The postering guidelines are as follows:
1. Notices posted on bulletin board loca
tions shall not exceed 11 x l7 inches in size.
2. The name of the sponsoring organiza
tion must be clearly indicated on the poster.
3. Only one active poster per event per 
bulletin board location is permitted.
4. Postering is allowed only on bulletin 
board locations and designated postering ar
eas. Posters hanging randomly on walls and 
windows are not permitted.
5. Postering over other active posters is not 
permitted.
6. Active posters hung by other organiza
tions shall not be removed.
7. Those who want their poster to appear on 
the bulletin board location in Skibo Grey 
Matter shall submit two posters per event to 
the Information Desk. This board is main
tained by Student Activities and only posters 
submitted to the Desk will be displayed; all 
others will be removed.
8. Banners hung outside of buildings shall 
be removed within 48 hours after the an
nounced event.
9. Banners and other posters shall not be 
posted on the glass above the main entrances 
to Doherty and Baker Halls.
A monthly purge of the bulletin board loca
tions on the first of every month will remove 
any posters whose dates have passed, any 
active posters with no effective event date, 
and any posters that advertise events more 
than one month in advance.
Any exception to these guidelines will be 
made solely by the Campus Affairs Commit
tee of Student Senate. Failure to comply with 
these guidelines will result in a minimum $10 
fine for each poster or banner improperly 
posted. In addition, if banners are not re
moved, organizations will be charged with 
removal costs. If fines are not paid within 30 
days the organization will not be permitted to 
use the bulletin board locations for the follow
ing academic semester. Any fines collected 
will be used to offset the cost of this program.
Should you have any questions about this 
policy please contact the Office of Student 
Activities, x2110.
New Business:
Chris Morrow (CIT) submitted petition to 
Student Senate and was accepted by accla
mation as a new Senator.
Mike Szudarek came before Senate to be
come a member at large and was accepted by 
acclamation.
Points of Discussion:
Issues discussed included poster policy.
Announcements:
 Ortegas office hours: Friday 3-5 pm.
 The Health Fair will be in the Ballroom on 
February 17.
 Amnesty International meets February 
15 at 8 pm.
 Holzmans office hours: Thursday 7-9 pm.
 Knights office hours: Thursday 7:30-9:30 
pm.
 ALLIES meets February 18 at 8 pm in the 
Morewood TV room.
 Budget Hearings begin February 12.
Meeting adjourned at 8:30 pm.
Submitted by 
NAOMI BERNER 
Edited by 
KENDRICK KERWIN CHUA
Students propose SafeWalk program
SAFEWALK, from pngo 1
patcher will tell the person on line an exact time, who will be 
escorting that person, where they will be meeting, and when they 
will meet. The [central dispatcher] will keep an accurate log of all 
information on escorts and times, said Wolpert.
Wolpert said that the rules are going to be very strict on escorters. 
We require them to be on active call, said Wolpert. Bronke said, 
We require that escorters do not do anything that would shorten 
their attention span. Bronke said that escorters will not be able to 
eat, play video games, or smoke while on active duty. Escorters 
must take their job very seriously. They must be alert, responsible, 
prompt, and courteous, said Wolpert.
According to the SafeWalk proposal, escorters will wear a highly 
visible uniform and carry a radio and a flashlight. The proposal says, 
[Escorters] will use their radios for several functions: to receive 
instructions from the [central dispatcher]; to call in suspicious 
characters or problems the [escorters] may observe that warrants 
notifying Campus Security; and to report threats to their own safety 
that may arise.
Candidates who want to become escorters must have been a CMU 
student for at least three semesters, in good academic standing, and 
in adequate physical condition. After the interview, candidates will 
work on three shifts with three different escorters. Then, they will 
be familiarized with the routes, trained in proper radio protocol, 
and subjected to case situations, according to Wolpert. After the 
training, the three escorts who trained the candidate will jointly 
decide if that person can become an escorter.
If one of the three escorters believes that further training is 
necessary for a candidate, then the trainee will be sent out on call 
repeatedly until his/her training is deemed adequate by all 
[escorters], according to SafeWalk proposal. If... at least two of 
three escorters strongly feels that the trainee should not be raised to 
[escortor] status and/or is not competent for this position for any 
legitimate reason, the traineo will be expelled from service. The 
SafeWalk proposal says that the trainee may appeal the decision to 
tho director of the service.
Currently, Wolpert, Bronke, and Gosmond are working on defin
ing the smaller details in the SafeWalk program. The only other 
issue were making sure were cleared on is the liability issue. Tho 
liability is loss for the University as a wholo by implementing this 
program. It works as a doterront to crime and a doterront to assault.
Wolpert and Bronke are also planning to start a major publicity 
campaign for SafeWalk within tho noxt two weeks. According to 
Wolpert, With the assistance of [Student Senato Public Relations 
Chair] Shawn Knight, we will be placing ads in The Tartan, postering 
around campus, sending organizations email, and giving posters to 
[Housing] for the RAs mailboxes.
If [students] want to get involved or want moro information, they 
can call me or [Bronke] or send email," Wolpert said. Gesmond said, 
Make an approach to the campus community. If you want to 
participate or have any suggestions, contact us. David Wolperts 
phone number is 621-7145, and hia email account is dw38. Kevin 
Bronke can be reached at 422-1439, and email for him can be sent to 
kb3e. Natalie Gesmonds extension is x4935 and her account is ngOn.
Correction...
In last weeks Beaux Arts Ball photo spread on page LI, the 
students in the photo in the lower right comer were misidenitified. 
They were (L-R) Jim Nix, staff at the English as a Second 
Language center, John Trivelli, design major, and Erik Gorr, 
senior art major.
In last weeks story, Track runs in Robert Morris Invite, Jim 
Langers class was misstated. Langer is a junior history major.
VAi Voluom bdllibuS oPP Lmdcm illdlS dB Bobut B RdN Lmdc dB 
SNbA om illdlg bdmuobu Voluom psrudlOrmOAriB xlimsom Eb.iiPR 
ou G,CCCg dl clrui Arj rm boli dB VAi Voluomg hLrd ]t
You want to write forNEWS
Inside  Crime and 
Incident  Student 
Senate Minutes  
This Just In...  
Investigative Reporting 
 Carnegie Mellon in 
Brief  Construction 
Update
Call 
Kendrick 
x 2111 
Skibo 
Room 50
2STSUDT UE NA7ST
Summer Programs 1993
Intersession : May 24 - June 11 
Summer Session : June 14 - July 23
 More than 50 regular offerings from the University's liberal arts curriculum.
 A three-week French-language Immersion program, featuring 
cultural walking tours and conversation classes.
 Weekend excursions : Normandy, Champagne, Loire Valley chteaux, 
Burgundy,Giverny and Chartres.
* Seminar tours with the University of Texas, the University of 
New Hampshire and the University of California at Berkeley.
Also, two new French Immersion Sessions:I Summer '94 in Biarritz  Winter '94 in Paris Send for our 1993 Summer Programs Brochure :
TTie American University of Paris 
Summer Programs / U.S. Office
Does your life lack excitement? 
Then get involved!
~  
. -
jjS. It's better tfian butter. 
Cali Keegan g x2111,______
JUNIORS AND SENIORS
INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDY IN PUBLIC POLICY AND MANAGEMENT?
THE H. JOHN HEINZ III SCHOOL OF PUBLIC POLICY 
AND MANAGEMENT INVITES YOU TO
SPRING VISITATION 1993
MARCH 5-6 
HAMBURG HALL
RSVPHEINZ SCHOOL ADMISSIONS 
26&-2164

---------------------------------------------------

Northwestern University
The Institute for the
Follow the leader! Andersen Consulting is offering a 
unique opportunity to earn a Master's degree in 
Computer Science at Northwestern Universitys, Institute 
for the Learning Sciences (ILS) and join one of the 
premier firms in international management and 
technology consultancy.
Full tuition, a graduate stipend, and employment with 
Andersen Consulting are included in this two-year ILS 
program. The program emphasizes innovative approaches 
to training using artificial intelligence, case-based 
reasoning, and other state-of-the-art technologies as well 
as the implementation of applications for Andersen 
Consulting and its clients.
Andersen Consulting will be on campus to interview 
candidates for this program on March 4, 1993.
To be considered for an on campus interview, send your 
resume as soon as possible to: Richard Jeffers
69 West Washington 
Chicago, Illinois 
60602
Carve Your Career 
Path While Earning 
A Graduate Degree
Studendt aMtnisCltK
ARTHUR ANDERSEN * CO, &C
EOEM/F/V/H

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  15 February 19935
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
1/30 INSTITUTIONAL VAN
DALISM, 12:50 am. While on 
routine patrol in the Fine Arts 
Building, Campus Police found 
an elevator inoperable. After 
checking all floors, the elevator 
was located on the third floor 
with the doors closed and people 
inside. The occupants would not 
respond to the officers request to 
open the door. The door was later 
manually opened and Campus 
Police found three students paint
ing. Internal citations were is
sued.
1/31 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 3:09 am. Campus Police 
were dispatched to a fraternity 
for a fight in progress. Upon ar
rival, two students were found in
i shouting match, but no fight 
was in progress. One student was 
under the influence of alcohol and 
refused to cooperate with Cam
pus Police. When told by Campus 
Police that he would receive a 
citation, he said, Go ahead and 
give me a citation; Im not going 
to pay it anyhow.
He received a citation for disor
derly conduct but refused to sign 
it. Instead, he crumpled it up and 
threw it on the floor. The frater
nity was told that any further 
actions would result in an arrest.
1/31 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
4:37 am. While entering Skibos 
game room, Campus Police no
ticed that the front panel of 
Street Fighter II was forced 
open. It was unknown at the time 
if anything was missing. The 
owner of the machine was noti
fied. None of the other machines 
appeared to be tampered with.
2/5 MEDICAL CALL, 6:19 pm. 
A fraternity called Campus Po
lice, stating that a student was 
sick and may have become victim 
to alcohol poisoning. Campus 
Police found the student in the 
process of vomiting. The student 
never lost consciousness but could 
not speak intelligibly. He was 
transported to Presbyterian Hos
pital.
2/5 VIOLATION OFLIQUOR
LAWS, 9:29 pm. Campus Police 
observed about a dozen frater
nity members on their patio shak
ing bottles and spraying each 
other with openedbottles of cham
pagne. The fraternity president 
accepted a citation for the inci
dent.
2/5 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 9:29 pm. On patrol, Cam
pus Police observed a fraternity 
discharging a fire extinguisher 
off its side patio.
The fraternity president was
issued a citation.
2/6 UNDERAGE DRINK
ING, 1:34 am. Campus Police ob
served a student kicking a ve
hicle and rolling over the hood. 
The student would not stop when 
asked. The student had to be re
moved from the hood of the truck 
and helped into his dormitory by 
two friends due to the students 
intoxicated state. Two officers re
sponded, encountered the stu
dent, and asked him to produce 
an ID. An internal citation was 
issued to the student for under
age drinking, which the student 
refused to sign.
2/7 MEDICAL CALL, 1:29 am.
A report came into Campus Po
lice stating that a student was 
found unconscious. Upon arrival, 
Campus Police found the student 
unconscious and unresponsive on 
the bed.
The students pupils were con
stricted, thepulsewasveryweak, 
and respirations were eight per 
minute. Two friends who were 
with the student earlier said that 
the student had gotten drunk on 
rum and coke prior to the Beaux 
Arts Ball, but they were not with 
her.
She was transported to Presby
terian Hospital.
2/7 ASSAULT/DOMESTIC 
DISPUTE, 3:25 am. A call came 
into Campus Police that there 
was a domestic dispute in 
progress at a fraternity. Upon 
arrival, Campus Police observed 
a male student running towards 
Forbes Avenue in only his boxer 
shorts. Upon seeing Campus Po
lice, the student retreated back 
into the fraternity and could not 
be found.
Another Campus Police officer 
observed a female student walk
ing at a rapid pace up Forbes 
Avenue towards Beeler Street. 
After asking for ID, the officer 
said that she fit a description of a 
student involved in a domestic 
dispute.
She had a small nick on the 
bridge of her nose which bled 
slightly and a red mark on the 
side of her face. She said that she 
did not want to file charges and 
refused to seek medical atten
tion. She was transported to her 
residence at Chatham College, 
where she was later taken to 
Shadyside Hospital.
No arrests were made because 
the male student could not be 
found.
2/9 ODOR OF GAS, 1:42 pm. 
A gas leak was reported in Mellon 
Institute. The third floor stair
well fire alarm was activated and
the building was evacuated. The 
source of the odor was later found 
to be sewer gas. The building was 
pronounced safe to enter at 2:20 
pm. The fire alarm system was 
reset and placed back in service.
2/9 INDECENT EXPOSURE,
2:10 pm. A student walked into 
Campus Security and said that 
an individual was being filmed 
totally nude outside Doherty Hall. 
Campus Police responded to find 
a student sitting on a bench to
tally nude as people were walk
ing by. Another student was film
ing the reactions of the people 
passing by. The nude student was 
issued an internal citation.
2/9 CONTROLLED SUB
STANCE, 2:58 pm. While check
ing through the lost and found, 
Campus Police found a wallet 
containing marijuana. The wal
let had been turned in two days 
earlier. It contained no identifi
cation but did contain $11.85, 
along with a baggie containing a 
green vegetable substance. The 
sample was tested with a field 
test kit, and it tested positive for 
marijuana. The rest of the con
tents have been placed in evi
dence.
2/9 UNUSUAL ODOR, 4:34 
pm. Childrens School personnel 
reported an odor that smelled of 
burning plastic in the kindergar
ten area. Upon arrival, Campus 
Police found the odor still present 
and smelling similar to a burned 
out ballast. However, no fixture 
appeared to have burned out.
The odor was pronounced to be 
coming from a large vent on the 
left wall. Physical Plant was no
tified to check the ventilation sys
tem.
2/9 HARASSMENT BY COM
MUNICATION, 11:49 pm. Astudent contacted Campus Police 
and stated that he received a 
phone call from a female student 
who stated that she obtained his 
number from Housing to ask him 
questions pertaining to sex, Sex 
Week, or the Sex Bowl. The caller 
asked if he preferred men or 
women, if he looked at porno
graphic pictures, and which type 
of women he found the most sen
sual. At this point, the caller 
laughed and hung up.
2/10 THEFT/RECOVERY,
2:30 pm. A wooden Schenley 
Park sign found in a fraternity 
on January 28 was turned over to 
Pittsburgh City Parks and Rec
reation. They confirmed that the 
sign was stolen from one of the 
park entrances, but was not sure 
of when. The fraternity was is
$3.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with coupon 
Pick-up only
I$2.00 off
Any Large 
Gourmet Pizza
Pick-up or Delivery
$5.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with coupon 
Delivery or Pick-up
-1--
$1.50 off
Any Two 
Whole Hoagies
Delivery or Pick-up
$1.50 off
any Large Pizza
Delivery or Pick-up
$5.99 Large
Pepperoni Pizza
Delivery Only
Large Plain + 
1/2 Italian 
Hoagie 
& 2 Cokes
$9.95 plus tax 
______Delivery___
Buy one Pizza 
get the same size 
Pizza FREE
Toppings Extra 
Pick-up only
'T
I
 -I--
2 MedPizzas +1 
topping on each 
for $10.50
plus tax
Delivery or Pick-up
Hawaiian Pizza
Special
$8.95 plus tax 
Delivery
-USm White Pizza 
& Tossed Salad
Only $4.99
Delivery or Pick-up
Free Topping
on any large pizza 
Delivery or Pick-up
Please mention coupons upon ordering. 
Coupons not valid with any other offer.
Free DeliveryPIZZA OUTLET
687-9555
190 N. Craig St.
sued an internal citation for re
ceiving stolen property.
2/10 MEDICAL CALL, 4:12 
pm. While lifting a case of pizza 
sauce, an employee of the 
Morewood Gardens Kitchen in
jured his lower back. He was 
transported to West Penn Hospi
tal.
2/11 FIRE ALARM, 1:29 am. 
A fire alarm was set off on .the 
fourth floor of Morewood Gar
dens E-Tower. Campus police 
found the area to be free of smoke 
or fire, though an odor of some 
type of aerosol and burnt plastic 
was detected briefly. The fire 
alarm system was reset and 
placed back into service.
2/11 FIRE ALARM, 4:07 pm. 
A fire alarm was received from 
the basement of Scobell Hall. A 
check of the basement proved 
negative for smoke or fire, but 
there was a distinct odor of ciga
rette smoke in the area.
Compiled by 
FRANK MICHELS
GSO creates new awards
The Graduate Student Organization (GSO) announced in a press 
release two new awards for high achieving graduate students.
The Graduate Student Teaching Award nominations are open to 
all graduate students at CMU. GSO encourages undergraduate 
students to submit nominations describing why their graduate 
student teaching assistant should recieve the award.
The award committee consists of various students and faculty. An 
engraved silver tray and a monetary honorarium will be awarded to 
the student.
The Graduate Student Service Award is for graduate students who 
have advanced the quality of life for graduate student on the CMU 
campus, according to the press release. The award and the commit
tee are similar to the teaching award.
Nominations can be submitted to Anne Witchner, assistant dean 
of Student Affairs. Further information can be obtained from GSO, 
at gso+@andrew.cmu.edu.
Childrens school head retires
Ann Taylor, founder of the Carnegie Mellon Childrens School, will 
resign after this semester to work at the Center for University 
Outreach. Serving as director for 25 years, Taylor is being replaced 
by Sharon Carver of the University of Rochester. Carver received her 
PhD in psychology from CMU, and previously worked as a develop
mental psychologist in Rochester.
Compiled by 
KENDRICK K. CHUA
Middle Eastern and Greek Food 
4705 Centre Ave.  621-8110
flafil sandwich 
gyro sandwich 
greek sandwich
$2.50 + tax 
$2.95 + tax 
$2.35 + tax
 Imported Groceries  Party Trays  Office Lunches  
 Lunch Deliveries 
\X>'
%
c*<vv
,cP
So you passed CSW 
<Zzzz... >
Now what?
Learn all the things they didnt teach you. 
Learn all the things you slept through. 
Learn all the things you need to know. 
Learn all the things you want to know.
Surviving Andrew
Lecture and Help Session
Wean 7500
Tuesday, Feb. 16
Pizza and refreshments provided.legie
jappjoMDpp
Funded by the Fee

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
SafeWalk plan starts strong, needs tuning
Student Government Presi
dent Natalie Gesmond with the 
help of junior history major 
David Wolpert and junior me
chanical engineering major 
Kevin Bronke, the program co
ordinators, introduced the 
SafeWalk program to Student 
Senate last week. This program 
will have student volunteers sta
tioned around campus to walk 
people to and from various points 
on campus. We applaud this ef
fort to help ensure students 
safety on campus.
Its amazing that the program 
has come about so quickly. 
Gesmond first mentioned a po
tential program to Senate only 
a month ago. Wolpert and 
Bronke have done extensive re
search into similar programs at 
other universities and currently 
have a detailed plan to impleinent SafeWalk. They are hop
ing to get it up and running by 
next month.
' Its also wonderful to see some 
action from a Student Govern
ment President. Even though 
phere have been some ideas 
Which have been implemented, 
like the student mentor program 
hnd the Fifth Year Scholar pro
gram, far too often ideas of the 
president are not acted upon.
! This is also an unprecedented 
(collaboration between Student 
Affairs, Campus Police, and Stu
dent Government. Its nice to 
bee administration and students 
working together and without 
hostility instead of against each 
pther.
I While the program looks good, 
we have a few suggestions for 
improvement. First, the volun
teers should have some self-defense training. They will be car
rying radios and flashlights and 
have the option to carry mace, 
whistles, or air horns. They 
should also be prepared to de
fend themselves.
Also, the volunteers should be 
trained in dealing with other 
situations that might occur. 
They should know how to handle 
someone who has been drinking 
and the correct ways of dealing 
with a crime victim, especially 
rape victims. While the volun
teers wont normally encounter 
these problems, its best if tiiey 
are prepared for any possibility.
The SafeWalk coordinators 
should look into creating a link 
with CMU-EMS. EMS could of
fer the volunteers some first aid 
training. And the volunteers 
should know how to call for the 
EMS person on duty if they en
counter any serious medical 
problems.
Another problem the coordi
nators have to consider is a lack 
of volunteers. They intend to 
have a male and female in every 
patrol. It is quite possible that 
they will not have an equal num
ber of volunteers of each sex. 
They need to consider the vi
ability of two men or two women 
working together and how this 
would affect the SafeWalk pro
gram.
Finally, we think that the 
SafeWalk coordinators should 
consider integrating SafeWalk 
with the existingEscort service. 
If they were integrated, they 
would only need one dispatcher 
who would be in a centralized 
location.
We encourage anyone inter
ested to contact Gesmond for 
more information. While the 
training may seem extensive, 
this can become a valuable cam
pus service, and it will need as 
many volunteers as it can get. 
Also, once SafeWalk is imple
mented, people should take ad
vantage of it. There will no 
longer be a reason to walk alone 
on campus. Hopefully, SafeWalk 
will help to make this campus a 
safer place.CMU mourns loss of drama ambassador
With the death of Elizabeth 
Bes Schrader Kimberly on 
February 5, the University lost 
one of its most amazing alumni. 
While many outside of the 
Drama Department might not 
have known Kimberly, students 
and alumni of the department 
recognized and appreciated her 
outstanding devotion. Kimberly 
is mourned by the Drama De
partment, and she will be missed 
by the entire University.
Kimberlys association with 
Carnegie Mellon  Carnegie 
Tech when she came here in 
1926 as a studentdid not just 
?iffect the Drama Department.
Her position as head of the 
costume shop gave her the in
fluence to support the roots of 
Scotch n Soda, a contribution 
that has impacted hundreds of 
Students in all majors with an 
interest in performance.
In addition, Kimberlys work 
Vvith. drama alumni kept gradu
ates in touch. From her parties 
at Sardis in New York to the 
development of a newsletter for 
t;he department, she made the 
Drama Clans, the association of 
drama alumni, a shining exGreen businesses poised for big future
David Hunt
In the past decade, environmental con
cerns have grown in the publics eye. 
There have been discussions on the mer
its of recycling and the now-infamous 
Owls vs. Jobs debates. But being 
green goes far beyond collecting beer 
bottles and old phone books. And many 
economic futurists feel that environmen
tally-related businesses will form the 
worlds next large growth industry.
Recycling is the most visible effect of 
the environmental movement. Many 
communities now recycle aluminum, 
glass, plastics, and newspaper. Steel 
scrap has a long his
tory of being re
cycled into new 
steel, and other ma
terials are increas
ingly joining the 
flow. One of the 
main benefits has 
been a reduction of BdB 1R1B three hOUTS.
the waBte flow into -------------------------------
landfills, which are
ample of how the Carnegie 
Mellon experience can last past 
graduation. Her contributions 
as a friend of the University 
were countless, and will hope
fully last for years to come.
While the Drama Department 
 and the entire University  
mourns Kimberlys loss, we of
fer our condolences. She will 
never be forgotten, and the good 
memories will hopefully soon 
replace the pain. We urge the 
faculty, students, and alumni to 
maintain the projects she sup
ported and to carry on her legacy. 
Contributing to the Elizabeth 
Schrader Kimberly Scholarship 
Fund, started by two former stu
dents, is one possible way to 
honor her memory. Working to 
maintain the strength of the 
Drama Clans is another.
Every once in a great while a 
person comes along whose im
pact on a community strength
ens it past his or her physical 
presence.
Bes Kimberly was such a per
son. No one can replace her, but 
perhaps someone will soon take 
up her spirit and carry on in her 
memory.
approaching capacity in numerous parts 
of the country.
But recycling has other benefits. Re
cycling aluminum, for example, saves 
95 percent of the energy required to 
produce aluminum from ore. Recycling 
one beer can save enough energy to light 
a 100-watt bulb for over three hours. 
Cumulatively, the aluminum industry 
saves enough energy in a year to light all 
the homes in Pittsburgh for over SrG 
RiolSt Over 40,000 new jobs have been 
created by aluminum recycling alone.
These savings are not limited to alu
minum. Glass-making is an energy in
tensive process as is cracking bauxite 
(aluminum ore).
The same is true for steel and many 
other metals. Recycling also conserves 
resources and has global economic and 
strategic aspects  reduced ore imports 
means cutting our aggregate trade defi
cit and reducing our dependence on for
eign material sources.
Plastics are also recyclable. Until re- themselves commercially viabletheir 
cently, plastics degraded when shred- process is doubly-profitable! 
ded and reused, thus limiting applica- Greener manufacturing processes 
tions for recycled resins. A recently de- can also be cost-reducing. A new method 
veloped process recycles plastics into ofmanufacturingprinted-circuitboards 
near-virgin material. This process also is currently being tested. This process 
removes mechanical separation require- uses water instead of other chemicids. 
ments, and the inventors estimate that Health-care costs are reduced due to 
at full-scale operation, the recycled ma- lowered risks, waste treatment costs are 
terials would cost 40 percent PiSS than reduced or eliminated, and large 
first-time-use materials. They even an- amounts of safety equipment are no 
ticipate profitably mining landfills for longer needed. All these contribute to 
old plastics! lower costs and higher profits.
Plastics can save energy while in use. Electric or hybrid cars are, in general,
Using the equivalent of a gallon of gaso- more efficient in their use of energy than 
line to manufacture a plastic replace- standard internal-combustion engines, 
ment for a metal automotive component Solar cell collectors are reaching iftto 
will, over the cars lifetime, save irKAu efficiency ranges that are competitive in 
gallons of gasoline. And this component some areas of the country. Better public 
can now be recycled to form other prod- transportation can reduce gridlock arid 
ucts. save energy while creating both manu
facturing and ser
vice jobs.
Rain forests, 
whose diversity'of 
life is nothing sh6rt 
of phenomenal, 
may have astro
nomical profits and 
human benefits in 
the chemical and 
genetic richness
Recycling aluminum, for example, saves 95 
percent of the energy required to produce 
aluminum from ore. Recycling one beer can 
save enough energy to light a 100-watt bulb
Paper recycling is also advancing. 
Until recently, paper products degraded 
when recycled. White office paper had to 
be scrapped into cardboard. A new pro
cess can now economically recycle white 
office paper back into white office paper! 
Glossy paper, formerly the bane of recy
clers, can now be recycled as well.
currently being burned and stripped.
The world is poised for a green revo
lution as decades of pollution await 
cleanup. Without pressing the environ
ment at home, we cannot convince the 
third world to do the same, nor will we 
continue to develop the technologies 
which will be a key in maintaining our
But recycling is only the tip of the world status. In order to provide indusiceberg. Many industries create and use 
a wide variety of toxic chemicals such as 
dioxins, which are very hard to treat. 
There are a myriad of toxic waste dumps 
whose contaminants are not easily sepa
rable or treatable. There are also some
trialization and economic growth to these 
countries, while protecting our global 
environment, we need stricter standards 
worldwide.
The benefits of being green go far 
beyond profits and jobs. Less waste
industries that require toxic chemicals means cities and roads are cleaner, the
to make their products, and there al
ways will be.
A company from my hometown is test
ing a new method of hazardous waste 
disposal. Not only does their technique 
reduce toxic chemicals to inert elements,
air fresher, and the oceans clearer. And 
as a camper, SCUBA diver, and long
time nature-lover, I look forward to,#- 
So pick up those cans and recycle!
Foqrs UNmu rS o KlosNoui jibAomrboP
thus providing a potentially high-value imKrmiilrmK jo4dl cAd AdkiS ArS siSbimO 
service, but the reduced by-products are somuS crPP imiBru Bldj ArS iBBdluSt
Small changes can improve quality of life
The dead of winter is upon us, rendering the campus 
lifeless. In these dark, gray days here are 10 small, rather 
inexpensive things the University could deal with to make life 
just a tiny bit better.
10. .rG uAi .imbi  Its rather sad to see this symbol of the 
University in such sorry shape. The Fence has been fixed 
before, and Im sure it can be fixed again. But I hope Physical 
Plant fixes it soon, because before you know it, we will be in 
the thick of the manure season, and there will be no time for 
anything but freshening the campus.
9. UNmu wrlolR VArls .PddlThis is the designated Quiet 
Study Floor. Yet there can never be complete silence as long 
as those damn microfilm machines are there. If youve never 
studied there, picture finals week. You have a calculus test in 
one hour. Youre trying to figure out these Taylor Series 
things. Suddenly, an epiphany! Youve almost figured it out 
and then ... Waaaaagh. The sound of those stupid machines. 
This problem has been compounded by the fact that most of 
the machines are broken and cause the people using them to 
revert to childhood experiences. Their sudden reactions to 
broken machines mirror the temper tantrum of a child who
has just discovered that his Playdoh has dried up and cant be 
used. These tantrums add even more noise to the Not-SoQuiet Study Floor.
8. hbduPoms Wols:S vdjosrb hjdLrmK hiburdm  I like 
Scotland Yard as much as the next person, but when the next 
person is a smoker, it kinda casts this gray tint on my whole 
dining experience. If there is a smoking section, it seems to 
rove throughout the place. Maybe this is all just the paranoia 
of a non-smoker, but my triple chocolate cake would be 
infinitely better if my nose didnt have to pick up the scent of 
Camel Lights. Please just designate a non-smoking section 
and enforce it.
7. PoSS hr3i  addj hr3i  Every semester it seems the 
Registrar has this game. Its called How to Fit 100 People 
Into a Room That Holds Only 50. This is probably not the 
Registrars fault. But for simplicity, and the fact that they are 
located in Warner Hall, lets assume it is. It seems every 
semester I have at least one class where Im so close to the 
people around me that I can taste what they had for lunch. 
You would think that with the opening of the new GSIA 
building there would be more classroom space. I suspect that 
the real root of this problem lies in the general size of classes, 
but thats another column.
6. DlrbiS  There are many injustices in our society, but 
none is as great as the price of a piece of fruit on this campusFifty-five cents for a piece of fruit that costs 10 cents at Giant 
Eagle is outrageous. Now I might go along with the 550 
Please see IMPROVEMENTS, page ^

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  15 February 19937
Expansion of rights actually restricts them
______________Erik Witte
President Bill Clintons most 
infamous campaign pledge, at 
least to this point, was his prom
ise fo lift the ban on gays in the 
military. His position was re
cently given some apparentbacking from a federal judge in Cali
fornia, who ruled that the gay 
ban was unconstitutional, say
ing that gays had a right to be in 
the military.
While the issue of whether gays 
should be allowed in the military 
or not is indeed interesting, I 
would prefer to instead focus on 
thsSwider implications of this 
ju"dSs ruling. He gave all AmericariS the right to military service. 
The^question that then needs to 
be asked is, is such a thing as 
miSary service a right?
Military service is not a right. 
Nowhere in the Constitution is it 
guaranteed to anyone. In fact, 
maliy of the rights we feel we 
have today come not from the 
Constitution but from judges who 
want to expand and essentially
devalue the whole concept of what 
a right is.
Most Americans would agree 
that we have the right to life, 
liberty, and property. But most of 
these rights dont fall under any 
of these categories, nor are they 
even remotely related to any of 
them. The whole ideas of welfare 
and unemployment compensa
tion are absurd. What gives any
one the right to other peoples 
money? If I decide that I want to 
give my money to some sort of 
charitable organization, that 
should be my decision and my 
decision alone. Where, why, or 
better yet, how did it become the 
governments role to reallocate 
my money?
Most people reading this news
paper are college students. We 
all like to think we will get jobs 
when we get out of here. We like 
to think that we have a right to a 
job. The fact is, though, we dont. 
Nowhere is it written that any
body has the right to a job.
If you want a job, there are two 
ways you can get one. The first 
way is to make your own job, but 
that takes tim e and a lot of effort, 
so most people are unwilling to 
do that. The second way is to 
convince someone else to give you
a job, and to do that, you have to 
convince them that you are the 
best person for the job. If the 
employer has any kind of a brain, 
he or she will hire you. Itseemsto 
me thatthe only people who want 
to guarantee themselves a job or 
give themselves a better chance 
of getting one through some type
to health care would be not to 
heal those who are sick or in
jured, but to infect and injure 
everyone else. The only truly fair 
solution is to let people do what 
they want as long as they dont 
infringe upon other peoples 
rights.
It is disturbing to me the way
It is disturbing to me the way rights 
seem to evolve in our country, yet 
some of the most basic rights 
contained in the Bill of Rights are 
constantly being diminished.
of affirmative action program are 
those who dont feel confident 
enough in their ability to get a job 
on their own merits. The fact is, if 
you cant get a job on your own 
merits, you dont deserve one.
The only thing that our govern
ment should guarantee is equal 
opportunity. And the only way it 
can do that is to do absolutely 
nothing, because any time the 
government steps in to help some
one, it usually only winds up help
ing them by hurting everyone 
else. The governments approach
rights seem to evolve in ourtiountry, yet some of the most basic 
rights contained in the Bill of 
Rights are constantly being di
minished. Clintons cabinet con
tains the wonderful Donna 
Shalala, (in)famous for her speech 
codes in the University of Wis
consin (UW) school system. Her 
speech code served in effect to 
prevent people from saying what 
they want to say. Students dont 
have the right to say anything 
offensive to other students. 1 prob
ably wouldnt be able to write
this column ifl had joined about 
a half of my high school class in 
attending a UW school.
And while were breaking the 
first amendment, why not men
tion the separation of church and 
state? Can you find it in the 
Constitution? The only thing 
youll find is the establishment 
clause, and the two are by no 
means the same. Your first 
amendment rights aren't the only 
ones being dissolved. Whatever 
happened to the second amend
ment? How about forfeiture, or 
more generally, most of the taxes 
we pay now? Or, in a different 
direction, how much of your free
dom are you willing to give up to 
fight the drug war?
We have a decision facing us, 
and we have to decide what people 
deserve. Expanding rights to the 
point that Clinton would like de
values them to the extent that 
they probably wont be worth 
having  and well all sit and 
wonder what happened to our 
freedom.
plrL yruui rS o BliSAjom bdjkNuil Sbrimbi jo4dl cAd9S cdmT
silrmK cAR Ai SurPP AoS urji ud 
clrui oms kPoR oSLiuoPP dNuSrsi 
dB C]O,CCtSimple things will make life better at CMU
IMPROVEMENTS, from page 6
percent markup if Dining Service hired 
Greek Gods/Goddesses to place the pieces 
of fruit in the customers mouth while 
fanning him or her with huge palm fronds. 
But I doubt Dining Service even rinses the 
fruit off. Break the monopoly, dont buy 
fruit from CMDS.
5. DU C FiSLS  Im not asking for 
major renovations to this 17th century 
classroom even though there is a seven 
second delay between when the professor 
says something and when it actually 
re^es your ears. It would be bearable if 
thg,<jesks were self-supporting. There have 
been countless times when I have propped 
up the desk-table to write on. The moment 
that I decide to rest my elbow upon it, 
boom, I just fractured my knee from the 
impact of the desk falling. I am resigned to 
taking notes on my lap and hobbling to my 
next class.
4 tVlomSblrku .iiSI hate to pick on the 
Registrars office twice in one column, but
$4 for a transcript is insane. If you want it week off for midsemester in addition to a 
rushed, its $20. For that price, I think an spring break. Thisgripeis probably unre
employee of the Registrars office should alistic, but in my current hell, otherwise 
come to an interview with you and explain known as February, it seems a day off 
why that history class isnt a reflection of would do everyone good.
There are many injustices in our society, but 
none is as great as the price of a piece of fruit 
on this campus. Fifty-five cents for a piece of 
fruit that costs 10 cents at Giant Eagle is 
outrageous.
your true abilities. Sure, these transcripts 
are printed on nice paper, but theyre not 
chiseled in stone. And the official seal is 
a nice touch, but unless someone is actu
ally drawing it on there, Im not impressed.
3. hbAisNPi  Would it be so bad if we 
were to get one more day off for 
midsemester break? A lot of schools get a
2. Udu youil  While cold showers are 
recommended for some, most on-campus 
students dont think icicles hanging off 
their various body parts make a particu
larly good fashion statement. Do everyone 
a favor and inform residents when turning 
the hot water off.
1. xom ejilrbom pGkliSS .ldj uAi
olmiKri EiPPdm ojkNS  Apparently 
tho marketing geniuses at Amorican Ex
press had this idea that if young, attrac
tive females who were thoroughly trained 
at the tanning salon were to yoll nt stu
dents, they would increase card member
ships. Guess againl I will not become an
other victim of their trap. First, theyre 
nice. They lure you over to the table. You 
have no intentions of signing up, but youll 
politely refuse. This is usually followed by 
WHAT, YOU DONT WANT TO SAVE 
MONEY!" (At this point I recognize her 
voice as the woman from MCI that called 
my house using the same line). Its best 
just to say, No, I dont want to savemonoy. 
Then leave the table, although be pre
pared for a look from her that says, 'You 
are just mdu cool. Please get these people 
off our campus.
xlrom hjruA rS o SdkAdjdli E jo4dl 
cAd cdNPs PrLi ud lijrms iqilRdmi uAou uAi 
-PRjkrbS srsm9u uoLi ejilrbom pGkliSStLoss of Student Union would limit viewpoints
The Editors Notebook
psrudl9S vduiddL rS o BiouNli 
cArbA KrqiS jijilS dB VAi 
Voluom9S psrudlroP xdols uAi dkT
kdluNmruR ud iGkliSS uAirl rmsrT
qrsNoP dkrmrdmSt psrudl9S vduiT
ddL kliSimuS uAi dkrmrdmS dB uAi 
rmsrqrsNor oNuAdl only, mdu mibT
iSSolrPR uAi dkrmrdmS dB VAi VolT
uom:2l dB uAi psrudlroP xdolst
This is my fourth year at CMU, 
so Ive been reading VAi huNsimu 
nmrdm for a while. When I picked
up the latest issue, I was inter
ested to see a piece called The 
Student Union is dead (Vol. 8, 
no. 8). According to this piece, 
signed by the collective, VAi huNT
simu nmrdm is in danger of fading 
away due to lack of interest in 
running it.
I dont know how the nmrdm got 
to this point, but its unfortunate. 
The nmrdm fills a niche that no 
other campus publication fills. 
The Tartan exists to inform the 
campus about whats happening, 
and though the Forum section 
gives members of the campus 
community the opportunity to 
express their opinions, theres not 
room for long, reallyin-depth com
mentary there.
The nmrdmg which is essentially
a political magazine, provides a bers of the collective, the fact re
place for that kind of opinion mains that a quality alternative 
writing. Ive never seen the two periodical certainly has a place 
publications as being in competi- at CMU. Of course, the key 
tion with one another  they word is 5NoPruRg and it cer/ know there are students at CMU 
with strong opinions and the skill to 
write about them, who don't feel The 
Tartan is the right place for them. 
Maybe the Union is.________________
serve different needs and have 
different purposes.
Though I often disagree with 
the ethicsofandmethodsusedby 
some current and former memtainly isnt easy to put to
gether a really good publica
tion.
I know there are students at 
CMU with strong opinions and
the skill to write about them, 
who dont feel The Tartan is 
the right place for them. 
Maybe the nmrdm is. I hope 
some people with drive and 
ambition do come forward to 
help provide leadership and 
organization for a sinking 
ship, as the piece in last 
weeks nmrdm asks.
However, if there is no one 
available with the dedication 
needed to make the nmrdm a 
dynamic political journal, per
haps it would be best if it died 
gracefully.
I wouldnt want that to hap
pen but would rather see that 
than a shoddy publication run 
by people who dont care.
 Uirsr Uddqil
aibimuPRg uAi nmrqilSruR 
srSbrkPrmi djjruuii siuilT
jrmis uAou uAi eV- BlouilO 
mruR crPP PdSi ruS AdNSrmK ou 
uAi ims dB uAi SklrmK SijiST
uilt yAou sd RdN uArmL dB 
eV- PdSrmK nmrqilSruR 
UdNSrmK0
Lenore Waldron
Sophomore
Civil Engineering/EPP
I feel bad for the brothers 
because this has been their home 
for many years, and theyre as 
much a part of this campus com
munity as anyone else. They 
deserve another chance.
Jason Herman 
Senior
Information Systems
Theyve just been in trouble 
since I was a freshman, and I'm 
amazed that it didnt happen 
sooner. Its an unfortunate blow 
to the Greek community. I hope 
things will be resolved peace
fully.
Roberta Draper 
Senior
Modern Languages
Ive had friends who've had 
trouble at ATOfemale friends. 
I dont have a problem with them 
being kicked off campus.
Kovln Chen/Tartan Photographer
Peter Chang 
Fifth-year Senior 
Economics/IM
Im not sure they deserve to 
be kicked off. If they wanted to 
discipline ATO, they couldve 
chosen some other measure. I 
think it was rather drastic.
Cnmogle Motion's Studont Nowspnpor 
Slnco 1906
Edltor-ln-Chlof........Brondan MFeoly
Managing Editor .Samuol Groonflold 
Business Mgr.............Michael Harris
THE TARTAN
News Editor..Kondrlck Korwln Chua 
Acting Forum Ed. ..Christian Rostifo 
Sports Ed. ..Lubomlr W. Kochanskyj
Features Editor.........Laura Palanker
Diversions Editor...............Tina L. Urso
Calendar Editor.........Laura M'Clure
Magazine Editors.............Maml Borek
Barbara Reyes 
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed......Glen Hoffman'
Art Editor......................Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor....................Jennifer Ursa
Production Mgr................Katie Swango
Personnel Mgr..................Keegan Folk
Copy Manager...........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr..............Chad M'Danlel
Asst. News Ed..................Frank Michels
Asst. Forum Ed.................Abby Schlff >
Asst. Sports Ed................Eric Strauss,
Asst. Features Editor....Andrew Sproule
Asst. Art Editor...................Edward Pak
Asst. Production Mgr...........Derek WahUa
Darkroom Manager..........Nathan Houser
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Timothy Blnss, Megan 
Dietz, Daniel Frey, D.A. Henderson, 
Ellon Hondrlckson, Mark Hllller, Held] 
Hoovor, Aaron Jonkln9, Dexter' 
Kobayoshi, R.D. Quinn, M.K. Rodgers, 
Cosar Sanchez, Ignatius Sasmlta, 
Tara M. Soman
Senior Staff 
Bob Dixon, Mlko Shapiro
Staffwrlters 
Matt Adlor, Nlcolo Allon, Joff Baslsta, 
Kristen Bovorldgo, Trlnotto Chandlor, 
Bobblo Dofflemoyor, Andl Franclonl, 
Dan Gallagher, Graham Glbby, Andy 
Glondlnnlng, Lauron Holnz, David 
Hunt, Jason Irwin, Both Macdonaldi 
Declan MCullagh, Truptl Patol, Paul 
Platosh, Kolly Sterling, Stoph Stlno, 
Jennifer Tumor, Jason Togyor, Gary
Art , i
Andre Khromov 
Comics
Matt Goldberg, Elliot C. Evans, Paolo 
Malabuyo, Jenifer Mul6, Elliott Schlff, 
Jon Slenk, Jen Thorson
Photo
Kevin Chon, Kerry Hagan, Reid Hecker
Darkroom 
Mac Mlrchandani, Gary Wilson
Production 
Susan Abdalla, Tony deFlglo, Shiv 
Dewan, Becky Elroy, Michael Gibson, 
Otis Greene, Alexandra Hector,, 
Brockett Home, Janice M'Clure
Copy
Roshnl Bhakta, Nathan Dohm, 
Madhav Ghanta, Karen Grunberg, 
Yerln Kay, Lenna Kydes, Anne Lopez, 
Catherine Marquis, Tonya Rado, Ed 
Slavlshak, Jon Stevenson
Business 
Olivia Raharja
Junior Staff 
Darren Chlappetta, Ming Chng, Alexis 
DePlanque, Jessica Fang, Rob Glaser, 
Brian Goldberg, Chris Graefe,' 
Marybeth Griffin, Jason Helnleln, 
Philip Joyce, Mike Keating, Ellen 
Lalumere, Bryan Lasley, Monica 
Leeke, Ylng Liang, Rich Lubell, J. 
Ralne Pickett, Mark Plzzurro, Astrld 
Rapp, Melissa Reaves, A.J. Robinson, 
Syd Rodriguez, Narls Slamwalla, Amy 
Sims, Brian D. Smith, Jason 
Streltfleld, Annie Wang, Eric Witte
Tlio Tortan Is tho student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon 
University. It is a weekly newspaper published by stu - 
dents during tho foil end spring somostors, ot no cost to 
mombors of tho University community. It Is printed byWostom Ponnsylvonlo Printing. Inc. Subscriptions uro 
avalleblo for tho somostor or ocodomlc yoor. The odlto-' 
rials appearing ot tho beginning of tho opinion soctlop 
uro tho official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial boord. 
Columns and political cartoon* are tho opinions dB 
Individual crootors. Tin Tartan roson/os tho right to 
rcjcct or condenso ony column or political cartoon, j 
Lottor# to the Editor oro opinions of authors who uro 
usuolly, but not nocossorlly, members of tho Unlvoralt/  
community. A lottor Intondod for publlcotlon must bo 
signed ond includo tho writer's oddross ond phone 
number for verification. Names will bo withhold upon. 
request. Tho Tortan roquostu that lettors bo no longoi1 
tiion 350 words. Tho Tortan rosorvos tho right to, 
condenso or rojoct ony lottor. Copyright  1093 by Tho 
Tartan. Tho Tartan editorial boord rosorvos tho right to 
withhold from publlcotlon ony copy It dooms unfit for 
publication. 1 "
Office: Sklbo 50 (412) 268-2111
Moiling oddross: Tho Tartan/Box 17/Comoglo Mollon ,
University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Funded in port by your Activities Fco.
All righto reserved.
Library of Congross ISSN U8 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

ATTENTION: COMPUTER MAJORS
ARE YOU STUDYING TO BE A 
TOP COMPUTER PROFESSIONAL?
Join BIX and find out why our overage member 
makes over $55,COO per year!
BIX is the online service for people who know computers. Our member 
list reads like a who's-who of the computing industry. On BIX, you will 
meet people who have made the transition from student to high-paid 
professional. Developers, software engineers, consultants...they all call 
BIX home. Join over 200 discussion areas and file libraries full of expert 
help and source code.
 GET ANSWERS TO TOUGH CODING PROBLEMS FROM THE EXPERTS 
. THE QUALITY OF INTERNET NEWSGROUPS WITHOUT THE NOISE
 GET SOURCE CODE FOR COMPILERS AND UTILITIES
 BUILD CONTACTS WITH SOFTWARE & HARDWARE COMPANIES
G et online with BIX's special Academic Program
A one year subscription with UNLIMITED access via the Internet 
during the day* for only $99 per year!
Or, pay-as-you-go for just $10 a month.
Access BIX directly from your school's computer - you may not 
even need a modem.
To take advantage of this limited time offer:
Log on to your school's computer and enter: telnet x25.bix.c
At the Name? prompt enter: bix.sp93cmu
Have your credit card ready to gain immediate access.
Questions? Call 1 -800-695-4775 (voice)
Internet mail: bix@genvid.com
 Hours for unlimited access are 2:00 am through 7:00 pm, Eastern Time. 7 days a week 
Telnet access only. Full details available during free registration.
EIX
BIX is a service of General Vidotex Corporation 
1030 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02138

---------------------------------------------------

Womens hoops splits with Juniata, Rochester
Team hits the .500 mark at 10-10 with victory over Yellowjackets; McKnight continues to shine
By GARY WILSON
Voluom huoBBclruil
The Carnegie Mellon womens bas
ketball team has gotten into the habit 
of starting slowly this season, which
Rob Glaser/Tartan Photographer 
Senior Captain Kelly Sterling dribbles past a Rochester defender.
Rob Glaser/Tartan Photographer 
The Tartans get ready to run a play against Rochester.
means they often have to play catch
up. On February 5, they were able to 
come back from a deficit to upset Washington University 59-53, in a dra
matic league game. However, last 
Friday night, the Tartans were unable 
to make up 
lost ground, 
as they faced 
the Yell
owjackets of 
the Univer
sity of Roch
ester. They 
got off to a 
dismal start, 
surrender
ing the first 
eight points 
of the game 
to Roches
ter. At the 
15:12 mark, 
senior guard 
Kelly Ster
ling got the 
teams first 
hoop from 
just inside 
three-point 
range. Roch
ester started 
to pull away 
a little more 
over the next
10 minutes. 
At 5:52, 
freshman 
guard 
Allison 
Yahn gave 
Rochester a 
23-11 lead 
on a threepoint bas
ket. Up to 
this point, 
Sterling and 
sophomore 
Jenny Gretz 
had com
bined for all
11 Tartan 
points.
With five 
and half 
minutes in 
the half, jun
ior forward
Mary Moore hit a layup to start a small 
rally. With just under four minutes left, 
junior forward Jeanine Megahan hit 
two free throws to pull the team within 
three.
At 3:14, Rochesters Yahn was fouled 
and went to the line to shoot two. How
ever, she had to be removed from the 
game, as she had lost a contact lens on 
the play. Senior Trish Kokoszka took 
her place and hit one of two.
Junior Tracey Buettgens closed out 
the first half scoring at 26-20 with an 
easy layup a few seconds later.
The remaining three minutes of the 
half were played scoreless.
Twelve seconds into the second half, 
McKnight hit two free throws to start 
an incredible 30-8 rim on the part of the 
Tartans.
At 15:18, Moore took a pass from 
Megahan and drove hard to the net to 
tie up the score for the first time. Yahn 
took back the lead with 15 minutes left, 
only to see sophomore forward Christa 
Sober tie it back up shortly after.
There was a stop in play for a few 
minutes after the basket to try and 
recover yet another lost contact lens, 
this one belonging to Sober.
At the 13:04 mark, Gretz hit a shot to 
give the Tartans their one and only lead 
of the game.
Over the next six minutes, Gretz and 
Sterling led the Tartans on a massive 
22-4 tear. With under seven minutes 
remaining, CMU lead 50-34.
The team hit a dry spell over the next 
four minutes, as they surrendered eight 
straight points.
The lead was enough to force the 
Yellowjackets into fouling. Gretz hit 
four additional foul shots to better her 
career-high point total of 17, set earlier 
in the week. Gretz finished the game 
with 22 points, including four threepoint baskets.
The game ended with CMU well 
ahead, 55-46. Sterling finished the game 
with 14 points.
This same inability to play catchup 
hurt the Tartans against Mid-Atlantic 
powerhouse Juniata College last 
Wednesday, when the team fell 82-64 
in the non-conference game.
In that game, Gretz came off the bench 
to score a career-high 17 points. 
McKnight led the team with 20 points 
and 15 rebounds.
courtesy of 1992-93 Tartan Basketball Program 
Soph. Jenny Gretz scored 39 points in two games.
Rob Glaser/Tartan Photographer 
Junior Jeanine Megahan launches a free throw.
The monster 
mash arrives
Good boys play with toy 
trucks ... Bad boys play with 
real trucks! At least, thats 
what the television ad said 
about the truck and tractor 
trailer pull coming to Civic 
Arena. Yes folks, theyre back, 
and this time, theyre going to 
deliver far more ear-piercing 
power than you and your 
mortal mind can handle. Youll 
see flames, explosions, and 
scantily clad women all 
wrapped up in a flag-waving, 
patriotic extravaganza that 
would make even the staunch
est of those pinko commie Rooslaes jealous of the Good Ole 
U.S. of A.
Flipping off the television set, 
in more ways than one, I sat in 
my recliner pondering what 
exactly had been portrayed in 
those 30 seconds. I saw power, 
fear of communism, and patrio
tism skillfully blended together 
with just enough sex to keep 
people interested. What a 
uniquely cultural event! Im not 
sure if I know of any sporting 
event as strangely American as 
a tractor pull. This dainty slice 
of the proverbial American Pie 
has its roots founded in the 
very bulwarks of our democracy 
 the right to show how strong 
we are, show how much beer we 
can drink before vomiting, and 
show how much noise we can 
make while exercising the other 
two rights.
Last semester, I had the 
opportunity to attend one of 
these events at the Civic Arena, 
and as I drove down there, I 
couldnt help but think that I 
was going to the Roman Coli
seum. The very hallowed ice 
upon which the Pens play, our 
esteemed knights-in-shiny 
hockey gear, was defiled by 
what must have amounted to 
over two feet of mud and dirt.
At any time, I expected to see a 
few Christians run out from the 
players bench, to be chased 
down by hungry lions from the 
Zamboni entrance.
Opening my program, I read 
over the event schedule, and 
was saddened to see that 
Zorion, the half-man, half
beast, car-crushing, skullsplitting, robot, would not be 
making an appearance. Must 
have had a sniffle. At that time 
I was going to put in my ear
plugs, but a fat man behind me 
wearing a faded HarleyDavidson tee shirt laughed 
from his beer, making sure that 
his beer gut wiggled appropri
ately. He was right. Im an 
American! Ill bust my ear 
drums if I damn well please! 
Bring out the Christians ... er... 
trucks!
One by one they came, 
through the entrance with 
much noise and fanfare, re
minding me of an invasion of 
rabid Huns. Those trucks 
jumped, soared, burned, wailed, 
destroyed, and razed, and the 
People, now quite drunk, 
cheered and fought opposing
actions. Ford men hated Chevy 
nen. Chevy hated GMC, GMC
ated Dodge. Of course, every
one hated Toyota.
The highlight of the evening 
J|as the stellar performance of 
dynamite Lady. This buxom
alf-naked woman willingly 
trapped dynamite to herself, 
^d blew herself up. Ahh, the 
American Way.
You know, I think I am a
etter man for the experience.
Paul Platosh is a sophomore pro
fessional and creative writing 
major.
Tartan men lose to Rochester, beat Brandis
By GARY WILSON
Voluom huoBBclruil
The Yellowjackets of Roches
ter University came to Carnegie 
Mellon a desperate team, in the 
midst of a seven-game losing 
streak. They had already lost the 
first meeting of the season to the 
Tartans, 64-52. However, the 
Yellowjackets were swarming in 
Skibo Gymnasium Friday night, 
as they came out and dominated 
two-thirds of the game, en route 
to a modest 5447 victory.
The Tartans seemed to have 
fate against them in the first pe
riod. They had the same number 
of opportunities as Rochester, but 
the shots just didnt seem to fall 
in their favor. The Yellowjackets 
stormed out to a 10-2 lead early 
in the half. A pair of layups around 
the 13-minute mark by junior for
ward Charlie Connors and junior 
guard Rony Johns, cut the lead to 
four. Rochester then went on a 
16-4 run, including three threepointers. Rochesters three-point 
shooting was a key factor in giv
ing them the first half advan
tage. The Yellowjackets shot five 
for 10, while the Tartans missed 
all four of their attempts.
With 2:19 left in the half, junior 
forward Derek Dragisich decided 
to prove once again the offensive 
powerhouse he can be. Dragisich, 
who was named UAA Player-ofthe-Week last Monday after av
eraging 17 points and 7.5 re
bounds per game in two contests, 
had been held scoreless up to this 
point in the game. He canned his 
first of two free throws. The re
bound of his second shot popped 
out to junior forward Matt 
Reiprish who immediately fin
ished the play and drew another 
foul. The four-point flurry started 
a 15 minute wave of CMU domi
nation. With 1:10 left in the pe
riod, Dragisich closed out the 
scoring at 28-18.
The Tartans picked up where 
they left off to start the second, 
with Dragisich sinking two more 
free throws. The Tartans run of 
12 straight points was inter
rupted by a free throw by RochDragisich up for a basket and a 
foul, giving the Tartans their first, 
and only, lead of the game, at 33- 
31.
At that point, I felt good. 
Things were starting to go our 
way. I thought that that would 
get the ball rolling, said 
Dragisich.
Dragisichs prediction made 
sense, given that the Tartans 
were playing at home, in front of
Freshman Kevin Byrne drives into a hoard of Rochester defenders.
ester center David Beck. How
ever, Connors made sure to let 
everyone know that the Tartans 
were still in control when he 
took a pass from Reiprish and 
slammed it home, bringing the 
crowd at Skibo Gymnasium to 
life.
At 14:49, junior forward Mike 
Hosni and Connors marched side 
by side, all alone into Rochester 
territory, after capturing a loose 
ball. Hosni hit the layup, bring
ing the team within one. With 13 
minutes remaining, Reiprish set
a lively crowd, against a strug
gling team, and had just battled 
back from a 16 point deficit to 
take the lead. It looked like things 
were about to get easy.
However, something went 
wrong. Suddenly, it was Roches
ter who were hitting every shot, 
and the Tartans who could do 
nothing but watch. Rochester hit 
10 straight points, to give them 
an intimidating 41-33 lead. We 
battled back for 17 points, so it 
wasnt a lack of effort. We just 
went cold and shot poorly, says
Hosni. Dragisich also commented 
on the teams dry spell. We just 
hit a cold spot. That really hurt 
us. We had two cold spots in the 
game, one in each half. We played 
pretty well defensively, we just 
didnt respond on our offense.
Despite the letdown, Carnegie 
Mellon once again came back to 
tie at 6:25 on baskets by Hosni, 
Reiprish, and Connors. For the 
next six minutes, the teams 
played evenly.
With 21 sec
onds remain
ing, the rally
ing Tartans 
found them
selves down by 
two, and were 
forced to start 
fouling. Roch
ester proved to 
be consistent 
from the foul 
line, hitting 
five of six tries 
in the remain
ing seconds of 
the game. The 
score ended at 
54-47.
Dragisich 
lead the Tar
tans once again 
with 11 points.
He also pulled in 
seven boards.
Connors lead 
the team in that 
department, 
with eight
boards. He and 
Reiprish both 
knocked down 
10 points on the 
night. Hosni 
was next on the 
team with
seven.
After the sluggish, defensive 
struggle Friday night, the Tar
tans were expecting a high-scor
ing affair with Brandeis on Sun
day. Last night was a slow game 
and this one is going to be run 
and gun, said Hosni between 
games. Its going to be a fastmoving, high-scoring game, said 
Dragisich.
Please see MEN, page 10

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  15 February 1993
By PAUL PLATOSH
Voluom huoBBclruil
The CMU hockey team had a busy schedule 
last weekend as they squared off against Indi
ana University of Pennsylvania (IUP) at Nevin 
Arena on Saturday and the University of Pitts
burgh on Sunday. In two fast and high scoring 
games, the Tartans came away witli one win and 
one loss.
Saturdays game against IUP was like a rollercoastor. IUP drow first blood by scoring twice 
early in the first pe
riod.
CMU edged in on 
their lead with a 
power play goal by 
sophomore P. J. Mann.
At the close of the 
first period, both 
teams scored again 
with CMU again tak
ing advantage of the 
power play, which was 
three for seven that 
evening. Both teams 
played impressively.
IUP goalie Kyle 
Schaffer made some
Peter Noble/Speclal to The Tartan 
Grad student Dave Umland fires away for CMU.
textbook saves, facing 14 shots from the Tartans 
that period.
The second period started off well for the 
Tartans, with CMU tallying a pair of unan
swered goals. But the rest of the period was 
owned by IUP as they marked up three 
goals to close the period.
CMU again put tremendous pres
sure on Schaffer, but he retained his 
composure stopping 15 of 17 shots.
The third period was less hectic as 
CMU scored again only to be answered 
eight minutes later by IUP. An out
standing effort was displayed by gradu
ate student Dave Umland as he tallied 
a hat trick for the game, but it was not 
enough as IUP skated away with the 
win, 7-5.
Bearing that loss, the Tartans met 
the University of Pittsburgh at Golden 
Mile on Sunday, vowing to avenge their 
reputation. And they did.
With an astronomical 50 shots on 
goal, Pitt goalie Mark DAmico must 
have felt like he had a bulls-eye painted 
on his chest.
The first period demonstrated some excellent 
defensive hockey as both teams allowed one goal 
a piece.
Scoring for CMU came from Umland with an 
assist from graduate student Scott Sarbacker.
Sarbacker did not dress for Saturdays game 
and was eager to rejoin the fight against Pitt.
The tie was extended in the second period as 
both teams scored a pair of goals.
Doctoral student Scott Berry faced 12 shots 
in goal and played well, holding Pitt to two 
goals. Both Tartan goals were netted by Umland, 
who earned a well-deserved hat trick, and was 
credited with the game-winning goal. He topped 
the evening off with a picture-perfect short 
handed lamplighter.
At the start of the third period, the Tartans 
decided that they had 
had enough.
CMU scored four un
answered goals to bury 
the rivals down the road 
under an avalanche of 
offensive pressure, tak
ing 15 shots in that pe
riod alone.
Umland scored again, 
his fourth of the game, 
along with Sarbacker, 
freshman Roger 
Maddalena, and sopho
more John Cardillo.
The last two goals 
were on the power play, 
which was two for eight that night. The final 
score of the game was CMU 7, Pitt 3.
The team has two regular season games re
maining.
Games this coming week include a matchup
Petor Noble/Special to The Tartan 
Graduate student Dave Umland skates In a recent game.
against the Mountaineers of West Virginia Uni
versity on Saturday, February 20, and the Rock
ets of Slippery Rock University on Sunday, 
February 21.
The playoffs take place at theGolden Mile Ice 
Center the following week on February 26-28.
Men pick up win 
over Brandeis U.
continued from page 9
Well, they got just that, as both teams 
came out smoking in the first half. The 
teams combined for 70 first period points. 
Brandeis scored the first basket of the 
game and had the lead two minutes in. 
At 17:17, Dragisich and Reiprish com
bined to take the lead at 54. From this 
point on CMU had control of the lead. 
The remainder of the first half saw the 
Tartans build up to a height of a 15 point 
lead. The half ended with CMU ahead 
39-31.
The second half opened a little shakily 
for the Tartans. They coughed up the 
ball twice in the first minute, but made 
up for it on defense, with two blocked 
shots. The high-paced scoring continued 
in the second half, with Brandeis getting 
the better of the play. Three times they 
managed to pull within four points, but 
never came closer than that. With nine 
minutes remaining, Brandeis leading 
scorer, Derk Schwieger, fouled out of the 
game.
With 3:42 remaining, the scoreboard 
showed Carnegie Mellon up 69-65. 
Brandeis then went on a fouling frenzy. 
The Tartans canned nine of 14 freethrows 
to finish up the scoring at 78-72.
Dragisich once again led the team in 
scoring, with 17 points. He also pulled 
downseven boards. Hosni lead the team 
with 11 rebounds. Hosni, Connors, 
Jenkins, and Reiprish all finished the 
game with over 10 points apiece. De
spite shooting a dismal 42 percent from 
the foul line, the Tartans were hot from 
3-point land, where they hit 57 percent.
The victory brings the Tartans record 
to 14-6 overall, and 6-5 in conference 
play. Brandeis drops to 3-8 in the UAA.
The Tartans play their final home 
game this Wednesday night against 
Denison University at 7:30. They then 
will be traveling to New York and Emory 
this weekend to close out the season.
We have a few games left. Weve been 
down and we need to bounce back and 
play like were capable of playing, says 
Dragisich.
By ERIC STRAUSS
Voluom eSSrSuomu hkdluS psrudl
The Carnegie Mellon mens swim team 
finished second at the UAA Champion
ship meet for the teams best finish ever. 
The meet, which took place Thursday 
through Saturday at Washington Uni
versity, left the Tartans without any 
qualifiers for the national champion
ship meet, but two swimmers made sec
ondary times, leaving them waiting to 
find out if they will be going to the 
national meet.
The womens team finished seventh 
overall with 271 points, but freshman 
Rebecca Fruehan provided the meets 
biggest individual highlight for the Tar
tans, winning the 200-yard freestyle 
with a time of 1:56.43, a UAA Champi
onship meet record, and a Millstone 
Pool record.
Unfortunately, the time only placed 
Fruehan in the B qualifier category.
The B qualifying time is akin to a 
wait-list. To qualify for the national 
meet, a swimmer must meet a certain 
qualifying time to make the A list and 
assure a place at the national meet.
A swimmer does not have to win to 
make the time, and a winning time, like 
Fruehans, does not guarantee a spot in
the meet.
The B time means the swimmer may 
qualify for nationals, depending on the 
number of A times made in champion
ship meetB across the nation.
Fruehan also qualified for a B time 
in the 50-yard freestyle, where she fin
ished second.
Fruehan picked up another secondplace finish in the 100-yard freestyle, 
again qualifying with a B time.
One mens swimmer, senior Jamie 
Millar, also made the B qualifying time. 
He finished second in the 100-yard 
breaststroke.
I was pleased overall with the way 
things went," coach Jim Cutrone said. I 
would have liked to have had more na
tional qualifiers, but the standards are 
very, very hard.
We were very happy. General word is 
that quite a few of the B qualifiers will 
go to the national meet.
Millar also finished third in the 200- 
yard breaststroke but did not qualify for 
nationals.
The other mens individual place-winners were a pair of freshmen, Matt Moe 
and Geoff Waller, who finished second 
and third, respectively, in the 400-yard 
individual medley. Neither qualified for 
nationals.
Chris Graefe/Tartan Artist
Waller also placed third in the 200- 
yard butterfly.
Four mens relay teams placed at the 
meet, but none qualified for nationals.
The 400-yard freestyle relay team won 
its event but failed to qualify for nation
als. The team of Waller, freshman Mike 
Berty, junior Todd Vandall, and senior 
Ted Beatty finished the race in 3:11.
The 200-yard freestyle relay team and 
the 800-yard freestyle relay team, com
posed of the same swimmers (Waller, 
Beatty, Berty, and Vandall) both fin
ished third.
Meanwhile, the 400-yard medley re
lay team (Millar, Vandall, Beatty, and 
junior Jonathan Kline) finished third as 
well. None qualified for the national 
meet.
Johns Hopkins University won the 
mens meet, finishing with 984.5 points,
379.5 points aheadofthe Tartans, while 
Emory University won the women's meet 
with a total of 811.5 points.
The national championships are the 
weekend of March 13 for the women, 
and the weekend of March 17 for the 
men.
Cutrone said Millar and Fruehan will 
know whether or not they will go to the 
meet 10 days before each ones respec
tive meet.
Ail-UAA players 
of the week
Sophomore center Meredith
McKnight scored 23 points and 14 
rebounds in a game against Wash
ington University.
Junior forward Derek Dragisich
Dragisich averaged 17 points and
7.5 rebounds while shooting 79 per
cent from the floor in two games 
against Washington University and 
Haverford College.
Swimmers find mixed success at UAAs
Men finish second, swimmers on hold for national meet
Hockey club splits two gamesDALMO
OPTICAL
SAVE 20%
A NEW DISCOUNT
FOR CMU STUDENTS, FACULTY O STAFF
CHEiS
The 23-Checkpoint Eye Exam:Our computerized eye exam provides a detailed optometric 
protile. The result... confidence in vision Sor you.
In-House Laboratories:
One hour service is available from our in-house laboratories, 
and you get Dalmos assurance of the highest quality and 
accuracy in the industry.
The New Vision  In Frames and Contacts:
Selection. Its the first thing that meets the eye at every Dalmo Optical Center. From bold colors and sophisticated 
profiles in frames to Extended Wear, Gas Permeable and 
Disposable Contacts, Dalmo has it all!
Guaranteed Lowest Price:
The finest designs from Europe ... the best designs in America 
... Dalmo has them all for the guaranteed lowest price.
Dr. B.H. Grossman, 
Director
SQUIRREL HILL 
5824 FORBES AVE. 
521*2100
I

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  15 February 199311
Indoor 
track 
shatters 
records
By ERIC STRAUSS
Voluom eSSrSuomu hkdluS psrudl
Four members of the Carnegie 
Mellon indoor track team setnew 
school records at the Robert 
Morris College Invitational on 
Friday.
The team has been settingindividual records all season, and two 
of the record-setters broke their 
own records set earlier this sea
son.
Forthemensteam, sophomore 
Jason Grusky broke the shot put 
mark he set earlier in the season 
I with a winning throw of 4610, 
1.5 better than his previous 
mark.
It Junior Deron Haley set a record 
in the 55-meter hurdles. He fin
ished second with a time of :07.60, 
V breaking sophomore' teammate 
Jim Damatos mark of :07.70, set 
; last year.
ii Sophomore Jim Filicko set a
record in 55-meter dash, with a 
time of :06.37. His third-place 
, finish broke alum Jeff IlUans 
j 1991 record by .08 seconds.
For the womens team, fresh
man Melissa Baustert set the 55- 
meter hurdles, racing to victory 
in :08.90 seconds.
This is the second consecutive 
week Baustert has set the record, 
tumingin a :09.10 time last week, 
which broke alum Julia Wrights 
record of :09.90 set in 1988.
Baustert also finished second 
in the 400-meter dash.
Other winners included junior 
Jim Langer, who won the mens 
5,000-meter run, and junior 
Ersula Cosby, who won the 
womens triple jump.
Senior Scott Phillips finished 
third behind Langer in the 5,000- 
meter run.
Senior Wendy Evans took sec
ond in the 3,000-meter run, and 
junior Jarrod Siket finished third 
in the 200-meter dash and fifth in 
the 55-meter dash, as the other 
individual place winners.
Team results were not kept in 
the meet.
The team is off this weekend, 
and returns to action on Friday, 
February 26, its last regular meet.
Pitt Bulls slashed by New York
By HOWARD HAN
Voluom /Nmrdl huoBBclruil
Stolid. Grim. Impartial. Those 
were the faces of the media, 
assembled around my three 
friends and I, assembled in the 
Civic Arena press box at 
Saturdays Major Indoor Lacrosse 
League(MILL) game between the 
Pittsburgh Bulls and the New 
York Saints. Much to 
some reporters dis
may, the four ofus were 
feeling a bit partisan 
and rambunctious and 
rightly so. The Bulls 
came into the game 
with a record of 0-4 
and were securely en
trenched in last place 
in the MILL National 
Division. The New 
York Saints came into 
the game with a record 
of 2-1 and were in sec
ond place in the Ameri
can Division. Pitts
burgh vs. New York 
again. It seems that 
any athletic contest be
tween the two cities is 
always intense and 
passion driven, and 
Saturday was no dif
ferent.
The first and second 
quarters of the game 
provided little cause for 
Pittsburgh fans to ju
bilate, except perhaps 
for the free Bulls baseball caps that were dis
tributed to the 5,600 
spectators. It was 4-0 
Saints at the end of the
first quarter and 7-0 Saints by 
half time. Seven different Saints 
scored on Bulls goalkeeper Kevin 
Bilger while on the other side of 
the field Saints goalie Sal 
LoCascio stoned the triggerhappy Bulls, stopping all the 34 
shots on goal rm uAi BrlSu AoPB 
oPdmit Bulls coach Dennis Wey 
must have had his team riled up 
for the second half, for they came
out storming into the third pe
riod. Bulls forward Derek Moffat 
instigated a fight with ucd Saints 
players, who interestingly enough 
are both brothers (Stove and 
Vinnie Sombretto).
Using the resulting power play 
to their advantage, the Bulls capi
talized, scoring three goals.
However, the Saints scored next 
at 8:45, and the Bulls replaced
Bilger with Ron Pearl for the romaindor of the third quarter. 
Pearl responded by shutting out 
the Saints, allowing the Bulls to 
crawl back into contention when 
the Bulls leading scorer Lindsay 
Dixon scored twice, making it 8- 
5 at the end of three. (A goal by 
the Bulls Brian Nikula was dis
allowed when it was ruled he 
shot the ball with no time recourtosy of the Pittsburgh Bulls
The Pitt Bulls fly Into action In the Major Indoor Lacrosse League. The last Bulls home game Is Feb. 27 at the Civic Arena.
maining. The crowd expressed 
their delight of the ruling by 
throwing their free Bulls hats 
and garbage at the referees.) The 
few remaining faithful fans were 
rocking the Arena at the begin
ning of the fourth quarter after 
the BullsJeffWills scored to bring 
the deficit down to two. Could the 
Bulls pull off an amazing comefrom-behind win, or would they 
come close, only to 
break hearts in the 
end?
As Ive learnedby fol
lowing the Bulls for the 
past few seasons, ex
pect the worst. I was 
caught up in the frenzy 
stirred up in the arean 
when JeffWills scored 
his third goal of the 
game at 9:52 of the 
fourth quarter to make 
it 10-9 Saints when 
alas, the Bulls lost their 
offensive momentum 
and broke down defen1 
sively.
The Saints sealed the 
game with two quick 
goals, and won with the 
score of 12-10. Next 
Saturday, the Bulls 
play their final home 
game of the 92 season 
against the Baltimore 
Thunder, and though 
it may not have boon a 
good season for a Pitts
burgh Bulls fan, that 
gamo should provide 
redemption for those of 
us deprived of seeing 
what a lacrosse win can 
look like.
Women break .500 with win against Brandeis
Tartans achieve 11-10 record with Sunday victory
By DARREN CHIAPETTA
Voluom /Nmrdl huoBBclruil
The Carnegie Mellon womens 
basketball team defeated the 
Brandeis Judges on Sunday by a 
score of 59-51.
The victory placed the Tartans 
over the .500 mark for the sea
son, with a record of 11-10, and 
75 in the University Athletic 
Association (UAA).
Brandeis dropped to 9-11,4-8 
in the UAA.
The game looked to be a romp
early, with the Tartans, behind 
sophomore Meridith McKnights 
six consecutive points to start the 
ballgame, took a 12-2 lead.
The Tartans tough defense, 
combined with the poor shooting 
of the Judges, who shot only 15 
percent from the floor in the first 
half, led to a halftime lead of 27-
12 for Carnegie Mellon.
McKnight was perfect in the 
half, shooting 44 from the floor, 
and 2-2 from the free throw line, 
for 10 points.
ShaynaAdelsonhad8 first half
rebounds for Brandeis.
As the second half began, it 
looked like more of the same, as 
the Tartans continued to pour it 
on the Judges, stretching their 
lead to 21, 40-19, on a drive by 
sophomore Jenny Gretz with fif
teen minutes to play.
Brandeis then began to toughen 
up on defense, holding the Tar
tans to only 12 points over the 
next 13 and a half minutes.
With a minute and a half left, 
Judges guard Amy Sullivan 
scored on a drive to the hoop to
make the score 5144, Tartans.
With 40 seconds to go, Adelson 
hit a shot from the paint to cut 
the lead to 55-51, but the Tar
tans made four free throws to 
account for the final margin.
McKnight was the star for the 
Tartans, scoring 15 points, grab
bing 12 rebounds, and making 
three steals.
Gretz scored 14 points, includ
ing six-for-six from the foul line.
Junior Jeanine Megahan also 
played well for the winners, scor
ing 10 points and leading the
Tartans in assists before fouling 
out late in the game.
For the Judges, Adelson was 
the leading scorer with 14 points. 
She also collected 12 rebounds.
The Tartans now have four 
games remaining. Wednesdays 
contest against Allegheny Col
lege is the final home game. 
They then travel to New York 
University on February 19 and 
Thiel College on February 24 be
fore finishing their season in At
lanta against Emory University 
on February 27.Hockey All-star game gives Penguins chance to shine
By GARY WILSON
Voluom huoBBclruil
Two teams, five captains, six goalies, 22 goals, 90 
hots, and 105.1 miles-per-hour all add up to one 
action-packed NHL All-Star weekend.
With injuries plaguing several of the leagues top 
players, a few of their teammates were given an 
Wortunity to participate in last weekends Allitar activities.
As it turned out, it was the replacements who 
stole the show. Rangers forward Mike Gartner led 
he Wales Conference to a whopping 16-6 victory, 
coring four goals and one assist.
The Penguins Rick Tocchet and Kelly Kisio of 
he San Jose Sharks combined for three more 
oals. These three players accounted for seven 
oals that never should have been.
Not that seven goals would have made a differ-r
Qce in this game.
Gartner locked up his claim to the car (the prize 
swarded to the games Most Valuable Player), on 
is very first shift. Gartner deflected a shot by 
teammate and fellow replacement, Kevin Lowe, for 
e first goal of the game.
Shortly thereafter, Campbell goaltender, Ed 
ielfour, dispelled any myths that he actually deierved to start for the team.
Belfour came out to play the puck and let it slip 
>ght through his legs. Gartner used his gift of 
peed to skate by and knocked in the open net tally.h
partner had won the speed skating competition 
e night before and with three more points on the 
^k home MVP honors.
he game broke all logical standards of hockey, 
teams combined for a staggering 90 shots on
Perhaps Tom Barrasso and Kirk McLean, two 
.oalies who rightfully should have been present, 
uld be thankful they werent subjected to the 
nurous exposure of an All-Star game.
_ e ^ams also set a new record for goals in a 
lame with 22. This is incredible, considering the 
g age game sees about 5-7 goals scored.
I >th the All-Star game scoring getting more and 
: fe ridiculous every season, there are those in 
; e hockey world who are looking to return the
game to the old style. This would involve having 
the reigning Stanley Cup Champions play a team 
of all-stars from the rest of the league. This seems 
fine for us in Pittsburgh, because either way, well 
be seeing at least four or five Penguins on hand; 
however, with only one team of all-stars, many less 
talented teams would be left in the cold.
There is nothing wrong with the present style of 
the game. Perhaps a score of 16-6 is not the best 
indication of what hockey is all about, but do the 
majority of fans really care about coming to see a 
well-played, fundamentally sound, defensive 
battle?
The fans want to see scoring, and it seems as 
though they are getting what they want now.
With such a variety of talents on both rosters, 
there were bound to be some interesting lineups for 
the coaches to put together. Despite scoring only 
two goals between them, Buffalo Sabres stars, Pat 
LaFontaine and Alexander Mogilny, provided the 
most exciting matchup.
The two have been working together and have 
been tearing up the league since LaFontaines 
arrival last winter.
On the Campbell side, Wayne Gretzky was once 
again paired up with scoring great Brett Hull.
Last year, Gretzky helped Hull earn MVP with 
four points; however, the twosome were shut out by 
the Wales Conference goaltending of the Montreal 
Canadiens Patrick Roy, the New Jersey Devils 
Craig Billington, and the Ottawa Senators Peter 
Sidorkiewicz.
Perhaps the most interesting line featured Kevin 
Stevens working with past and present linemates, 
Mark Recchi and Rich Tocchet.
The invaluable Recchi was sent to the Philadel
phia Flyers last season for Tocchet. This lineup 
gave Stevens a chance to work with both linemates 
simultaneously forthefirst time. Itseemedtowork 
well as all three players contributed to the 
scoresheet.
Recchi, who is personally keeping the Flyers 
from falling flat on their faces this season, totaled 
one goal and three assists on the game. Tocchet 
finished third in voting for wingers, but was origi
nally not chosen to appear in the game. He was 
awarded the opportunity after Mario Lemieux fell
victim to Hodgkins Disease and was unable to 
participate. Prior to the start of the game, Lemieux 
was honored with a captain jersey and standing 
ovation by the crowd at the Montreal Forum.
Friday night featured the skills competition. The 
rules were changed this year so that we could see 
really fast skaters that nobody has ever heard of 
compete for the speed skating title.
Washington Capitals A1 Iafrate surprised no 
one by once again winning the prize for hardest 
slapshot, clocked at a humble 105.1 miles-perhour. The Boston Bruins Ray Bourque was perfect 
once again on the accuracy shooting. He hit four 
plates on four shots.
Brad Marsh of the Senators gave the crowd a 
good chuckle as he shot 0 for 10.
However, it was Marsh who left for home on 
Saturday with a smile on his face. Marsh, one of the 
few remaining helmetless players, scored his first 
All-Star goal late in the game on a great pass from 
Stevens.
The skills competition also saw hometown favor
ite Patrick Roy stop a measly six shots on 15 
attempts.
Roy turned things around on Saturday, as he 
went unBcored upon for his period of play, stopping
11 shots.
courtesy of the Pittsburgh Penguins 
Kevin Stevens was a Penguin All-Star In 1993.
courtesy of the Pittsburgh Penguins 
JaromlrJagr was an All-Star despite recent struggles.
courtesy of the Pittsburgh Penguins 
Rick Tocchet came In a trade from Philadelphia.

---------------------------------------------------

d
C!z
1=
'{ i- tir: 
6['
I
vcl-v'S
, O
Tjco
i'f < 
-i c
 /
:$<
/i
iKl"B
iS
Attention all Ksidftnt Students! AleriionraH Resident Students! Attention al Resident Sludentsl
Attention all 
Resident 
Students!
This is just another reminder that the Room 
Reservation Process for the 1993-94 school 
year is almost upon us.
Don't forget that all students who wish to be 
considered for university housing for the 
1993-94 academic year must pay a $100 
deposit before February 25,1993. The deposit 
should be paid at the Cashier's office in 
Warner Hall. It is important that you save your 
receipt for the deposit because you must show 
it in order to participate in the room 
reservation process.
Now is the also the time to begin thinking 
about where you would like to live next year 
and who you would like to live with. If you do 
not yet know who you are going to live with 
and would like to know of other students who 
have not selected roommates, you may come 
by the Housing Office and put your name on 
the Roommate Matching List. Students 
looking for roommates will have access to this 
list and may contact those on it to arrange 
roommate match-ups. Remember, however, 
that you do not have to have a roommate to 
participate in room retention or selection.
If you have any questions, please feel free to 
contact the Housing Office at x2139.

>sf
Attention II Botidenl Studanfrl Attention all Resident Student*! Attention all Resident Studenti!
Carnegie Metton (Drama presents
By Modre
directed 6y MCaden iseCov
Previews 
February 18 & 19 at 8:00 pm
February 20 at 2:00 pm
Special Offer
for CMU students, faculty, and staff*
BuyTWO (PreviewTicl^ets,
Tartuffe opens February 20 
and continues through March 6
* validated CMU IT) required
VVThe Chilly Climate for Women in 
Colleges and Universities
sponsored by:
Volum eVSrvi ci lSipsdntchcSiny udntPnhv mhPtcvakB
is a video which was produced at the University of Western Ontario. It features women 
from that University -- faculty, graduate students, and staff-- talking on camera about their 
isolation and/or marginalization. For example, do you ever feel like you have an interview 
where the focus is on what you can't do. rather than on what you can? Are you ever asked 
to go to lunch with the "guys" because they need a "woman's point of view"? Do you ever 
feel like you're being harassed by the males in your class?
The video will be shown:
Monday, February 22, 7:00-8:30 pm at the Tilted 
Square Cafe (GSO Coffeehouse)
Also, watch for The Gender Gap, a talk by Dr. Karen Dajani, Associate Professor 
and Chair of the Communications Department at Chatam College, co-sponspred by 
WINGS, GSO, and the Office of the Associate Provost for Academic Affairs, coming 
MARCH 11, Thursday 4:00pm in the Skibo Ballroom.
FRAFRmNKRlsm VoMM IR mRFCRH Es EMM KRRsolumL
Eyy wnJPyh,B ahPtvihaB nit ahnww DvyJSrv hS nhhvitL
WINGS is a GSO Funded Organization: Your Graduate Student Activities Fees in Action!
DA LMOsTe Ds Just A DOtObOsepublishe
THEN THIS IS JUST A WATCH.
Its time we set the record straight. Oracle created the 
worlds first commercially available relational data
base. Just as Seiko created the worlds first quartz watch 
without a battery.* Both remarkable feats. But our 
technology didnt stop with database software, any 
more than theirs stopped with telling the time.
Today, Oracle provides total systems solutions 
through database, tools, applications, and services. Our 
products run on more than 100 computer platforms and 
are currently offered ih 92 countries around the world. 
Imagine applying your skills 
in advanced networking,
CASE, application develop
ment, office automation, 
development tools, multimedia, massively parallel 
technology, and more.
So when youre ready to transform your education 
into an exciting career, dont just settle for anysoftware 
company - choose Oracle.
We are interested in individuals with technical 
degrees for positions in^Software Development, Techni
cal Support, Consulting*and Product Management.
Send your resume to Larry Lynn or Lindsay Quin
tero at Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 
659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. Phone (415)506- 
5060. Fax: (415) 506-1073. E-mail: lslynn@ us. oracle, com.
Oracle will be On Campus
January 28-29,1993
Contact the Placement Offi .e for details.
Oracle is an equal opportu
nity employer and is proud 
I of its workforce diversity.
ORACLG
EoLi RdNl qrSrdm udjdlldc:S uibAmdPdKRt 
Depicted. Seiko Sport Tech Advanced Flight Computer - the nvrld't first alarm chronograph that recordselapsed time up to 31 days. 23 hours 5V minutes. 59 seconds. Orbital rule on 
dial indicates relationship between heighi'velocity and period of resolution of a passing satellite.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  15 February 199313
IM News
SPORTS IN SEASON
BOWLING
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Matches are rolled on the Forward Lanes on 
Forward Avenue in Squirrel Hill, 422-5844 on 
Saturday mornings. Please pay all fees and report 
team scores to the commissioner.
BACKGAMMON & BRIDGE
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Please play all matches as scheduled and report 
your scores to your commissioner or the IM Office.
BASKETBALL
Commissioners:
Majors  Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Intermediates  Dave Ekem, x5354 
Minors  Jim Saxon, x5482 
Women Only  Trish Williams, x5973 
Play all games as scheduled and please do not 
request a schedule change. Check the IM bulletin 
board for team schedules and standings.
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEYBALL
Commissioner:
Dave Warol
Games started February 7 and are played on 
Sunday nights in the main gym starting this Sun
day. Check with the commissioner for team sched
ules.
FLOOR HOCKEY
djjrSSrdmilS8
Majors  Dave Ekem, x5354 
Minors  Jim Saxon, x6482 
Women Only  Trish Williams, x5973 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the IM 
Office. The first matches were held last Monday.
UPCOMING SPORTS
PINOCHLE
djjrSSrdmil8
Buddy Feitt, x5371
WATER BASKETBALL
djjrSSrdmilS8
Mike Kappus, x5302 
Joanne Kievan, x5900 
The certified lifeguard at all matches will be 
Denise Fenwick. Entries are due on Thursday by 
4:30 pm. Check the IM bullettin board for practice 
and play schedules.
BUSINESS
The IM Department is still looking for officials 
for IM basketball and floor hockey. To sign up, 
contact the Assistant IM Director, Mike 
Mastroianni at x2193 or x2214. The next IM Board 
Meeting will be this Wednesday in the IM Office.
Compiled by 
ANDY GLENDINNING
Dont cry for maligned Bills
Buffalo fans, your team should stand proud
AAFROTC takes part in military 
hoops tournament at Notre Dame
ByLUBOMIRKOCHANSKYJ
Voluom hkdluS psrudl
The Carnegie Mellon Univer
sity and University of Pittsburgh 
Air Force Reserve Officers Train
ing Corps (ROTC) joint unit par
ticipated in a basketball tourna
ment at Notre Dame University 
in South Bend, Indiana two weeks 
ago.
During the weekend of January 29,11 cadets from the CMU/ 
Pitt joint unit, detachment 730, 
participated in the annual Fly
ing Irish Basketball Tournament 
for the first time.
The tournament was well-represented by Air Force, Navy and 
Army ROTC units from across 
the nation.
Colleges in the states of Indi
ana, Ohio, Tennessee, Minnesota, 
Pennsylvania, South Dakota, and
even far-away Hawaii sent teams 
to South Bend for the tourna
ment.
The CMU/Pitt squad pulled out 
a victory over the Notre Dame 
Navy squad and played solidly in 
their other games.
Despite the good play, the team 
lost to their other three oppo
nents, South Dakota State Uni
versity, Whitewater College, and 
the University of Miami (OH).
If you were writing for 
SPORTS, then we probably 
could have filled this space.
From here, we could go on to 
discuss the mysteries of Conan 
Doyle, the moons of Jupiter, or 
even the influence of Aquinas 
on Modern philosophy; but 
gee, look how much space 
weve wasted already!
Call Lou or Eric at ext.2111 for 
more information. Please.
By MARK PIZZURO
Voluom /Nmrdl huoBBclruil
Lets play a game of Seinfeld 
word association. You soy, Dal
las Cowboys. I say, Whats the 
deal with these guys? Four years 
ago, they were 1-15 and were 
almost as big a joke as Admiral 
Stockdale, and now theyre NFL 
champs. And whats the deal with 
coach Jimmy Johnsons hair? I 
mean, what hairspray does he 
use?
Now, you say, Buffalo Bills. I 
say, I mean, come on! Whats the 
deal with these Super Bowls? I 
have a better chance of winning 
with four quarters and a slot ma
chine than they do with 12 quar
ters in the Super Bowl. And whats 
the deal with their helmets? 
Theyre either missing or are too 
big for the players. Nine turn
overs ... ?
The list could go on like an epic 
poem; well just stop here. Its so 
easy to bash them after losing 
three Super Bowls.
Hey, wait a minute!
Lets go back to Super Bowl 
XXV when they took on the New 
York Giants. Most definitely one 
of the greatest Super Bowls of 
them all. The Bills lose on a 
missed field goal. Both teams 
played an excellent game, but the 
Giants controlled the gamo and 
ate up the clock.
Super Bowl XXVI pits the Bills 
versus the Washington Redskins. 
For the second year in a row, tho 
Bills had scorched a path through 
the playoffs.
The final score was Redskins 
37  Bills 24. Rough riding for 
Buffalo!
Then this year, the Bills did not 
quite resemble the Bills of old, 
losing games to the New York
Jets, Indianapolis Colts, getting 
blown out by the Miami Dolphins, 
and then by the Houston Oilers 
in the season finalo. The playoffs 
begin and they find themselves 
matched against the red-hot Oil
ers again. Down 35-3 in the third 
quarter with Oilers quarterback 
Warren Moon outshining the sun 
and ploying without Jim Kelly, 
Thurman Thomas, and Cornelius 
Bennett, the Bills were all but 
dead. Thenit happened. No, coach 
Marv Levy didnt show signs of 
having a personality. Backup 
quarterback Frank Reich led the 
Bills to the greatest comeback in 
NFL history.
With an unprecedented display 
of courage and fortitude, the Bills 
beat the Pittsburgh Steelers and 
crushed the Dolphins to give them 
another shot at the Super Bowl.
This was a new team. Never 
had their defense been so good 
and never had the players per
formed so much like a team. It 
wasnt the Kelly and Thomas 
show, but it was the Buffalo Bills 
show. The dream ended here as 
the Cowboys put on their own 
version of the ViGoS AormSoc 
EoSSobli at the Rose Bowl.
Beaten in three consecutive 
Super Bowls, tho Bills are goats 
at first glance. However, you can
not just look at their Super Bowl 
performances. They are a sensa
tional team which has shown 
more consistency from soason to 
season than any other team in 
tho NFL.
Furthermore, in the 1992 sea
son, the Bills wero 4-0 against 
NFC opponents, including wins 
over the San Francisco 49ers and 
the New Orleans Saints. The vic
tory over the 49ers was big be
cause they had the best regular 
season record in the NFL and
classified
JJOUSINGTRAVEL
Apartment Shadyside, third-floor 
studio, large separate kitchen, bath, large 
livingroom-bedroom, 5390/month 
including utilities and cable, 1 person, 
661-0787.
JOBS
Cruise ships now hiring Earn 
52,000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, 
Mexico, the Carribean, etc.) Holiday, 
Summer and Career employment 
available. No experience necessary. For 
employment program call 1-206-634- 
0468 ext. C5236.
Earn $500+ weekly stuffing envelopes at 
home. Send long SASE: Country Uving 
Shoppers, Dept. C22, 14415-E 
Greenwell Springs Rd, Suite 318, 
Greenwell Springs, LA 70739.
PERSONALS
Tammy at Carnegie Mellon. I met you 
at the Pittsburgh Airport on Wednesday, 
lanuary 27th. You were returning from 
an interview with XEROX in Rochester. I 
didn't get your number. My loss. Jim. 
(716)359-0522.
QN CAMPUS JOBS
Greeks & Clubs. Raise a cool 51,000.00 
in just one weekl Plus 51,000 for the 
member who calls! And a free head
phone radio just for calling 1-800-950- 
1037, Ext. 25.
Greeks & Clubs: $1,000 an hour. Each 
member of your frat, sorority, team, club, 
etc. pitches in just one hour and your 
group can raise $1,000 In just a few days. 
Plus a chance to earn 51,000 for yourselfl 
No cost. No obligation. 1-800-932-0528
COURSE INFO
Money for college! Scholarships and 
grants available. Free details. Write ESN-2 
959 Berkshire Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15226. 
Or call (412) 563-4104
See it in 
writing!
The classifieds are 
an excellent tool to 
reach the entire 
Carnegie Mellon
community.
Deadline
sWv tvntyciv wSd 
aPjrcaacSi Sw Jynaacwcvt 
ntgvdhcavrviha ca Y br 
hWv sWPdatn, jvwSdv 
bPjycJnhcSif
Something to Sell? Something you 
Want?
Let people know in the Classifieds. 
Send your ad today!
were knocked out of the playoffs 
by the Cowboys. Kelly did not 
have his best year but mado the 
Pro Bowl and hung tough despite 
injuries. Thomas led the NFL in 
total yards from scrimmage for 
the fourth consecutive year and 
also played with injuries.
The defense, led by end Bruce 
Smith, had their best season yet. 
The problem seems to be that (he 
Bills come apart during the two 
week layoff prior to Super Sun
day. Also, the NFC teams play k 
more challenging schedule which 
keeps them on their toes through
out the 17-week season and play
offs.
It will take time before we can 
tell if the Bills are going to be 
contenders again. Perhaps age 
and the shadow of three consecu
tive Super Bowl losses will catch 
up with them. Chances are that 
they will still be good. The stum
bling block will be the improve
ment of their AFC competition.
In the east, Miami now has a 
defense to match its offense while 
the Colts have good young talent 
that will help the team to grow 
into a contender.
In the Central division, Pitts
burgh broke through this year 
and has provod to be one tho bost 
teams in tho NFL.
In tho wost, the San Diogo 
Chargers surprised evoryonolas 
defensivo coordinator fiill 
Arnspargors dofonso dominated 
oppononts.
With young, talont-ladep 
toams, tho AFC will soon brook 
its nine year championship dry 
spell and hoist its own NFL cham
pion.
Until thon, bofore you mock the 
Bills, just remomber what they 
have accomplished instead of 
what they havent.
Free travel information! Call AYH for 
Eurall passes, student ID cards, or 
international hostel passes, Issued over 
the counter! 422-2282.
Low student and faculty fares to 
International destinations. Good fares 
within the USA**AYH and Eurorall 
passes*"Experienced friendly service. 
Hours 9-5 Monday - Friday, 10 AM-Noon 
Saturday. Convenient location: 4608 
Wlnthrop St. off South Craig St. Call 
Forum Travel 681-4099.
Spring Break: Cancn, Nassau from 
S299. Organize a small group for free 
trip. Call 1 (800) CET-SUN-1.
Classified
Policy
Rates
1-20 words.............$5
per week
21-50 words..........$8
per week
51-100 words.......$10
per week
 Classifieds must be 
paid by cash or check 
before the first sched
uled run date.
 On-campus depart
ments and organiza-; 
tions may pay by  
journal transfer with & 
valid account num
ber.
 Classifieds are not 
subject to discounts 
applicable to display 
ads.
 Classifieds reach a 
wide audience.
 The Tartan is pub
lished on the follow
ing Mondays: 2/22, 
3/8, 3/15, 4/5, 4/12, 
4/19, and 4/26.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

C X)Attention CFA majors, H&SS majors with CFA 
minors and ALL students who love the arts....
INTRODUCING THE SUMMER 1993
CFA LANGUAGES OF THE- ARTS
PROGRAM AT THE
CARNEGIE MELLON CENTRE DE TOURS 
bo TOURS, FRANCE
During this 6 week program (May 21 to July 2), you will explore the history, 
language and ways of life that provide an inspiring cultural context for the arts. 
Joining you in this unique educational experience are six 
CMU faculty members:
CINDY LIMAURO - Drama 
MARK MENTZER - Design 
LAURA NETTLETON - Architecture 
CHANNA NEWMAN - French 
HERB OLDS-Art 
FRANCO SCIANNAMEO - Music
The program is unlike any experience here on campus  emphasis will be placed on 
learning through real life, hands-on experiences which bring together performing and visual 
arts in a historical context.
Learn to see and communicate in several disciplines. Learn the languages of other arts 
and how they relate to your area of study. You will receive French language instruction 
focusing on the cultural context of the program. Weekly excursions are planned to visit 
chateaux, cathedrals and museums around the Loire Valley and in Paris.
There are no prerequisites, however acceptance will be selective. Students will receive 18 
units of credit. The cost is $3750 and includes tuition, housing with French families, all 
meals, museum entrance fees and transportation for all required field trips.
Enrollment is limited. Apply early!
If we have applications by Feb. 26, we can arrange discount group airfares. 
For an application, please see Patti Pavlus, CFA Deans Office, CFA 100, x7173
or
Come by the Office of International Education, 219 Smith Hall and talk to Emily
Bianchini, Study Abroad Advisor, x4969.

---------------------------------------------------

e 87, Issue 17The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania15 February 1992
junior wins Heinz award 
to spend summer abroad
jBy LAUREN HEINZ
:oluom huoBBclruil
This past Wednesday, Julie 
Paul, a junior architecture stu
dent, was notified that she was 
the 1993 recipient of the Vira I. 
Heinz Endowment, a $3500 grant 
given to any female student wish
ing to study abroad during the 
summer between her junior and 
senior year. The 
scholarship,
i'whichis awarded 
to women at 11 
local colleges, has 
been a Pittsburgh
tradition since 
Vira I. Heinz es
tablished the pro
gram in 1956.
The endow
ment was designedinhopesof 
enriching a stu
dents academic 
program as well
as providing an ------------
opportunity to 
travel abroad in a foreign coun
try. The program is also intended 
to improve national understand
ing and awareness through con
tacts maintained throughout 
ones senior year.
Paul had been planning to 
travel abroad during the sum
mer of her junior year for several 
months and originally had her 
heart set on visiting Italy. But 
when her department announced 
it would be offering a trip to 
Vienna, Austria from June 6 to 
July 16, Paul was immediately 
interested. I wanted to see as 
much as possible while I was in 
Europe, but I knew I didnt want 
to stay in just one place, Paul 
said. A trip to Vienna would 
allow me to travel around a lot, 
even to Italy.
However, the departmental 
trip would cost around $5500  
a sum she would have to provide
herself. But toward the end of 
last semester, Julie received a 
card in her mailbox from Student 
Affairs advertising the Vira I. 
Heinz Scholarship.
It was funny because I received 
the card at about the same time I 
heard about the trip. It was per
fect timing. The scholarship 
seemed like a terrific opportu
nity to find funding but I never
"The scholarship seemed like a ter
rific opportunity.... I wanted to go 
for basically two reasons ... to see 
all of the architecture in that area 
and ...to trace some of my family 
roots. 
 Julie Paul 
Heinz Scholarship Winner
expected Id get it, she says.
For the endowment, Paul had 
to supply three reference letters 
and an essay describing her rea
sons for wanting to travel and 
study abroad.
I wanted to go for basically 
two reasons, she says. First to 
see all of the architecture in that 
area and secondly to trace some 
of my family roots. After submittingthe application, each stu
dent was personally interviewed 
and then waited for a response 
from Student Affairs.
Paul was quite surprised the 
day she found out she had won 
the endowment. I hadbeen work
ing long hours all week and got to 
my mailbox really late, says 
Paul.
Once I saw where the enve
lope was from, I prepared myself 
for it to be a rejection letter  I 
thought they would have called
whoever had won. But Julie 
was the top recipient. Other 
applicants included first alter
nate Tina Benko, a junior 
drama major and second alter
nate Shannon Artera, an in
dustrial design major.
I didnt realize there was a 
scholarship for just junior 
women who wanted to travel 
abroad during their summer
----------- break. This
grant helps me 
out tremen
dously. Its so 
wonderful that 
Vira Heinz left 
this endow
ment. Its hard 
to come up with 
tuition money 
these days, let 
alone money to 
travel abroad ... 
its such a 
supplement to 
an education.
----------- This is such a
great opportu
nity, she says.
Pauls nearly six-week stay 
in Vienna will be full of diver
sity and personal freedom. 
Fourteen students and a couple 
of professors are also making 
the trip. The coursework will 
be equivalent to two full-class 
units and a studio credit as 
well.
During their stay, the group 
will have opportunities to at
tend history lectures at the 
school in Vienna, sketchingvisits to nearby cities, tours of 
architecture firms, and daytrips to other cities. Our week
ends will be free, though, and I 
plan to buy a train pass. It is 
structured so that we are not 
locked in a room for six weeks 
studying architecture, says 
Paul. They want us to do things 
we wouldnt be able to do in 
Pittsburgh.
Sexual harassment case 
argued in mock trial
By JASON HEINLEIN
Voluom /Nmrdl huoBBclruil
During the last weekend in 
January, two teams of CMU stu
dents traveled to the University 
of Maryland to participate in a 
mock sexual harassment trial. 
The purpose of the trial was to 
give students who are interested 
in law an opportunity to partici
pate in a realistic trial simula
tion.
Each team had 
six student mem
bers. In any par
ticular round of 
the competition, 
three ofthe mem
bers would play 
the part of attor
neys, and three 
would play the 
role of the wit
nesses. In subse
quent rounds, 
the roles of each 
could be reversed 
so that each par
ticipant played a 
variety of parts.
The jury was 
actually made up 
of three judges 
who scored each 
team on their 
skills of argumentation, 
knowledge of 
court procedure, and under
standing of the facts of the case.
The lawyers on each team were 
given sworn affidavits from each 
of the witnesses and could ques
tion the witnesses on various 
controversial points in their 
statements. Since the case was 
intentionally organized by the 
American Mock Trial Associa
tion to be inconclusive as to the 
guilt or innocence of the defen
dant, the courtroom argumen
tation was of paramount impor
tance.
The lawyers took advantage
of all relevant material, and re- ever, the CMU teams decided to 
searched the case for hours each not dwell on complaints, and 
day in the weeks preceding the instead focus on what they have 
competition. The CMU teams learned from the competition, 
werenotasinterestedinwinning Trupti Patel, a senior social and 
as they were in learning about decision sciences major, said that 
the legal field and gaining expe- the tournament was a good thing 
rience in it. Jill Denesvich, a se- to become involved in, despite all 
nior mechanical engineering the problems that weve had. 
major and member of one of the The CMU teams were very sucCMU teams said that the expe- cessful in the tournament and 
rience and not the awards was were invited to the Gold Flight
and Silver Flight 
national compe
titions. However, 
due to the finan
cial costs as well 
as the time con
straints on the 
CMU students, 
they have de
cided not to com
pete on the na
tional level. In 
the future, 
Devine would 
like to organize 
a regional tour
nament with 
Pittsburgh at the 
contor. By re
ducing the dis
tance of uny oompoting schools, 
such a tourna
ment would 
make the event 
loss expensive as 
woll as less dotimportant. Associate Dean of rimental to other aspects of the 
Humanities and Social Sciences students academic careors. 
Joseph Devine said that the stu- The coach of Carnegio Mellons 
dents wanted the experience of teams waB Mark Knapp, who 
working together, and that they holds a law degree from the Unidid a terrific job. versity of Pittsburgh and is curAs in any competition, there rently working towards his PhD 
were teams who, in the opinion of in history at Carnegie Mellon. 
Denesvich, were not playing by Together with assistant coach 
the rules. This, along with the Mary Jo Miller, Knapp successRamsoy Hong/Tortort Art Editor
financial and time costs, are the 
main reasons why CMU will not 
be returning to the competition 
next year.
To certain teams, winning is 
everything, said Devine. Howfully prepared the teams for the 
competition. Denesvich was very 
impressed by the coaches com
mitment. She said, It was great 
to have coaches who are inter
ested.Adamson Fund brings 
writers on campus
By ANDREW SPROULE
Voluom eSSut .iouNliS psrudl
Valentines Day is a time when 
people give to those that they love. 
However, it can also be a day when 
there are those who arent able to give 
to those they love. Fortunately, there 
are groups and people who are will
ing to pitch in and give to those that 
dont have. CMU is such 
a place. Two groups on 
campus have taken the 
time to use Valentines 
Day to raise money for 
charity.
The Association for In
dustrial Management 
and Engineers (AIME) 
along with Heart of CMU, 
a new group on campus, 
decided to send candy for 
the donation of one dollar  
to raise money for The 
Whales Tale youth and 
iamily counseling center.
Math/CS senior Betty 
Wu,a member of AIME 
and the person who is try
ing to start Heart of CMU,
Wa8 behind this fund
raising project. Were 
giving people the option 
^ sending the candy to a 
friend or to a youth, said 
R u. The dollar donation 
ls to cover costs and raise money. A 
lot of people have chosen to make the 
donation and send the candy to a 
child, said Wu.
This makes the contribution have 
double the impact because not only
people
_____
La
Plum, 
ters in
By BOB DIXON
Voluom himrdl huoBBclruil
The Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers 
Series will begin for the spring semester 
on Wednesday, February 17 at 8 pm in 
the Adamson Wing with author Lore 
Segal. Her latest publication is a novel, 
Uil .rlSu ejilrbomt Segal has also writ
ten a childrens book VAi hudlR ElSt 
wdqiclrKAu oms DNllPiSS Uil oug and 
two translations from the Bible, VAi 
hudlR dB esoj ud EdSiS and VAi xddL dB 
?rmK hoNP oms ?rmK Foqrst She teaches 
at the Univer
sity of Ohio.
Following 
Segal on 
March 10 will 
be author 
Annie Dawid, 
assistant pro
fessor of En
glish at Lewis 
and Clark Col
lege in Port
land, Oregon.
Dawids first 
novel, WdlL 
.illRg traces 
the lives of Kay 
Pinny and her 
children for 20 
years after 
Kays husband 
runs off, look
ing for a lost
love. Dawid has won many awards for 
her work including second prize rm ejilT
rbom .rburdm for The Settlement and a 
Pushcart special mention for Mourning 
Dove.
On April 14, poet Dorothy Barresi will 
read her work. Barresis first book of 
poems, ePP dB uAi edqig published in 
1991 by Eeacon Press, won the 1990 
Barnard College New Women Poets 
Prize. Her work has appeared in numer
ous literary magazines including 
lo3RAdlSig DolmoSSNSg and DPdNKAT
SAoliSt Barresi is an associate professor 
of English at California State Univer
sity, Northridge.
The last readerin the Visiting Writers 
Series, poet James Tate, will appear at 
the annual 
Adamson 
Awards, a cer
emony funded 
by the Pauline . 
Adamson 
Fund which 
recognizes tal
ented stu
dents in all 
areas of writ
ing, on April 
30. Tate won 
the Yale Se
ries of Youn
ger Poets 
Award in 1966 
for his first 
collection, VAi 
wdSu DrPdut 
Tate's other 
collections in
clude VAi 
-Prqrdm UoO 
Uog eSimbiSg and dmSuomu FiBimsilt
All Visiting Writers Series Readings 
are held in the Adamson Wing at 8 pm 
and funded by the Pauline Adamson 
Fund.
Romsoy Hong/Tartan Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, February 18,1993 
4:30pm - 6:00pm 
Skibo Faculty Lounge
Carnegie Tech co-ed highly recommended by fraternity as Playmate
DPoRdRt
The librarian disappeared into 
the back room and returned with 
a box labeled 1958. He started in, 
searchingforthe CMU girl, with
out knowing her name or what
paging through the 1959 issues. 
In January, DPoRdR:S Playmate 
review showed a picture of Miss 
September 1958 that assured him 
that he was on the right track. It 
was Hope sitting on a desk with a
month she appeared. Finally, on CamegieTechbannerinthebackJUncfl hissecondscanning,inJulyl958, 
 s /VOSe he g0t hi8 fir8t lead. A letter from 
R YloAoj YrR Stan Harris, then president of 
Beta Sigma Rho at Carnegie Tech: 
The Zeta Chapter of Beta 
Sigma Rho Fraternity recently 
held its annual formal here at
VArS ciiL 9PP i PddLrmK ou o 
BiouNli uAou okkiolis rm uAi FiT
bijil g CMJJ rSSNi dB VAi VolT
uom Siburdm .dPrdt arbA ?crouO 
LdcSLrg o Simrdl pmKPrSA jo4dl 
oms Dr wojso DAr lduAil 
ldNKAu ru ud jit  Aos oSLis Arj 
odNu uAi YliiL hrmK SudlRg oms 
cArPi PddLrmK uAldNKA ArS BrPiS Ai 
BdNms uArS SudlRt Dr woj Suoluis 
oS o PdboP BlouilmruR mojis xiuo 
hrKjo aAdg oms uArS SudlR oPP 
Suoluis cruA uAijt vdcg kPioSi 
sdm:u uArmL dBuPrrSoS ^VAi Voluom 
sNlrmK SciikS ciiLg! iboNSi  
sdm9u rmuims ru uAou coRt e Pdu AoS 
Aokkimis ou En uAou rS mduiT
cdluAR  uAi ulormrmK dB SdPsrilS 
Bdl ydlPs yol Vcdg 
uAi siBiou dB vduli 
Fojig oms mdcg klddB 
uAou Druu oms y(n 
olim9u uAi dmPR bdPPiKiS 
uAou Aoqi iim likliT
Simuis rm uAi koKiS dB 
Playboy.
Ten Hope appeared 
in DPoRdR magazine 
in September 1958.
Most of our parents were in high 
school and perhaps some of them 
saw that issue. Now you, too, can 
learn of Hope as she appeared 
when she was a Carnegie Tech 
sophomore.
An alum named Dave Kaufman 
told of a co-ed classmate of his 
who posed for DPoRdRt Jeff 
Zaslow, editor of Folio, decided to 
look into the story for a possible 
feature spread. The librarian at 
Hunt directed him to the Carnegie 
Library because they have al
most everything and we have al
most nothing. At the Carnegie 
Library, the librarian obnoxiously 
asked me why he wanted DPoRT
dRt He told her,
My mother was a conterfold 
in 1958, and I want to see what 
she looked like in hor prime. The 
librarian looked at him with an 
eyebrow raised and then told him 
that the Carnegie Library has no 
collection of DPoRdRt His next 
stop was the University of Pitts
burgh and Hillman Library. At 
the Special Collections room he 
registered his name and gave the 
real reason he wanted to read
ground. So, she Aos been a 
centerfold.
The only problem was that the 
September issue was nowhere to 
be found. The librarian at Pitt 
told him that there wasnt a li
brary within 100 miles that held
Carnegie Tech and this year we DPoRdRS back that far. He wrote 
used DPoRdR as our theme. The a letter to DPoRdR and received 
fraternity house was elaborately and answer that said, Sorry, but 
decoratcdwith...Playmatesfrom 19 years ago is a long time. He 
DPoRdRg and over 80 couples, in- even called every book dealer in 
eluding faculty members, at- Pittsburgh, 
tended. The brothers submitted Finally, he got a call from a 
the names of their dates for our used book and magazine dealer 
Beta Sigma Rho Playmate Con- downtown who said I have it. 
test and the winner was cute But its an old issue. Good condiCamegie sophomore Teri Hope. 
Teri is a nineteen-year-old blue
eyed blonde  a petite 52" tall, 
measuring 36-22-35 in the vital
tion. It wont be too cheap. Thatll 
be 15 dollars.
Hope was on the cover, not big 
and daring like today but just a
statistics department. Is there snapshot tucked in a business 
any possibility you might be in- shirt pocket, with the caption
Collegiate Play
mate. She was 
pretty and sexy and 
she was described as 
A student of Drama 
at Carnegie Tech. 
There wasnt much of 
a story with the photo 
spread, so he decided 
that it was his duty 
to learn all the events 
culminated in Hopes
As there any possibility you 
might be interested in Teri as a 
real Playmate of the Month? 
 Stan Harris, 
Beta Sigma Rho Fraternity
terested in Teri as a real Play
mate of the Month in Playboy? 
Stan Harris 
Beta Sigma Rho
The response from Playboy was 
that Hope could indeed expect a 
call from their representative.
vdcg uAi bAombiS dB omR KldNk 
dm bojkNS sdrmK uAi Soji uArmK 
uAiSi soRS rS SPrj ud mdmig oms mdu 
4NSu iboNSi dB irmK kdPrurboPPR 
bdllibu oms oPP uAou  uAi joKoT
3rmi AoS bAomKis 5Nrui o ru Srmbi 
uAimt VAi krbudlroP dB Udki Aos 
dmPR Brqi kAdudSg BdNl dB cArbA 
SAdcis Ail BNPPR bPduAisg oms rm 
uAi bimuilBdPsg cAim SAi srs SAdc 
Sdji SLrmg Ail mrkkPiS cili 
orllNSAis dNu) wddLrmK ou uAi 
dlrKrmoP olurbPi rm VAi Voluom 
olbArqi libdlsSg SAi lioPPR rS om 
ouuloburqi cdjomg omst uAi kdSiS 
oli oPjdSu klNsrSA Bdl udsoRt
So, the letter showed that there 
was some element of truth to the
that culminated in 
centerfolding. He went straight 
to the Alumni Office.
We havent heard from her 
since 1967. She never graduated 
from here. We dont know why 
she left, but she wasnt here in 
1959. The last address we have 
for her is in Beverly Hills, Cali
fornia. As far as we know shes 
still single, but 1967 was 10years 
ago. Alot can happen in 10 years.
Looking at the meager file, her 
real name was Natalie Hope 
Reisberg. She probably changed 
it to Teri Hope for her career. She 
gave her occupation as actressfreelance. There was nothing else 
the Alumni Office could provide, 
so moved on to research else
where.
He called Stan Harris, the man 
who wrote the letter. His wife 
answered the phone, and when 
she put him on, he didnt seem too
odNu likilbNSSrdmS:0  KNiSS uAou 
ArS crBi Aosm9u iim ou uAi BdljoP 
ou xiuo hrKt VAi Bobu uAou uAi 
lduAilS srs uAou rm uAi BrlSu kPobi 
SurPP PdcS ji ocoRt yili uAi 
cdjim rmqruis iboNSi uAiR srsm9u 
boli odNu cAou Playboy Sudds 
Bdlg dl coS ru 4NSu uAou uAi likNuoT
urdm dB uAi joKo3rmi Aosm9u 
sldkkis sdcm ud cAili ru rS udT
soR0
Zaslow then got a list of Beta 
Sig brothers and contacted sev
eral, all of whom were helpful 
and added pieces to the puzzle 
surrounding this woman. They 
remembered the incident, but 
noted that it had been 19 years 
and things became fuzzy after 
that long.
Jim Miller told his version, giv
ing some background: At the 
time, DPoRdR didnt have a 
straight reputation, and they 
were trying to get some prestige 
events going, having these par
ties on college campuses. The mer
chandise head at Kaufmans was 
a Beta Sig alum and arranged for
a display window ofDPoR dR fash
ions. It was all arranged through 
the chapter, so the magazine of
fered us a champagne dinner. 
Carnegie Tech wouldnt give ap
proval, but we had it anyway.
Evidently, the school lioPPR 
didnt approve of Hopes posing, 
and several Beta Sigs were repri
manded for the event. Miller 
guessed that even if Hope had 
returned, she wouldnt have been 
around long. Alan Duchan, an
other Beta Sig alum, had heard 
that the school objected to their 
name being used without per
mission, but he thought that it 
was a pretty thin charge.
vdcg SNkkdSi Sdjidmi Bldj 
olmiKri EiPPdm kdSis oN mouNliP 
udsoRg joPi dl BijoPig oms cili 
rsimurBris oS En SuNsimuS0 
yAou cdNPs Aokkim0 dNPs uAi 
SbAddP LrbL uAij dNu0 yAou lioT
SdmS bdNPs uAiR NSi0 dkRlrKAu 
cdNPs i o rK dmi rB uAi urPuis 
S5Noli coS SAdcrmKg Nu cAou rB 
ru coSm9u0 9s iu uAou o slojo 
jo4dl cdNPs Bobi jdli likilbNST
SrdmSg klrjolrPR Bldj uAi sikoluT
jimug Nu cAou odNu om imKrT
miil0 //Playgirl comuis ud SAdc o 
NmbA dB joPi EibAp9S rm uAirl 
x(F9Sg cdNPs uAi sikolujimu 
Aios Bldcmg dl jimurdm ru uAi V 
joKo3rmi0
Thats all Zaslow could find out 
about Hope. He couldnt find her 
parents and no address existed 
that was younger than 10 years. 
From later issues of Folio, it 
doesnt appear that anything else 
surfaced about her. If anybody 
out there has a clue, please let me 
know  Ill do what I can to talk 
to Hope and find out more.
Next week, Ill be talking to 
professor Edwin Fenton about the 
Morewood Apartment building, 
juicy details on the Piano Massa
cre, and more tidbits that You 
Didnt Know You Wanted To 
Know.
YloAoj YrR rS o Simrdl kldT
BiSSrdmoP clruil cAd mdc LmdcS 
Adc ud ucdOSuik oms Prmi sombi ud 
udsoR9S AduuiSu bdNmulR AruSt
iPaau 
hook
A good way to unwind! 
Stop by, chat with your friends,
meet the faculty!
story, but there was no hint as to pleased to hear from Zaslow. All 
the month she appeared or if, in Harris had to say was that he 
fact she coS invited to pose, knew Hope and that he had sent 
Zaslow soon discovered that Pitt the letter, and good-bye. 
was missing DPoRdR for the VArS coS CM RiolS oBuil uAi iqimug
month of September, so he started oms SurPP uAi jom coS cdllris
Coordinated 
by the
Student Advisory 
Committe and the 
departments oS Industrial 
Management and Economics.
FOOD!
Non-alcoholic,
EVERYONEWELCOME!
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  15 February 1993
Neuroses flare up at thought of past Valentines
viNldurb wrqrmK
R emslic hkldNPi
Okay, I think everybody is in 
agreement. Valentines Day is 
nothing more than a corporate 
ploy to get weepy sentimentalists 
to cough up some dough, lest they 
feel the wrath of their loved ones. 
The problem is that most of us 
have bought into it. Oh sure, we 
wear the mask and play up our 
trained cynicism, butfor the most 
part, people celebrate the day in 
some shape or form. I personally 
believe that this day was designed 
specifically to yank on the chain 
of my many insecurities.
Elementary school was always 
hell when Valentines Day came 
along. I was not the most social of 
kids. I was the one in the comer 
who looked like he had just been 
fed a handful ofValiummostly . 
because I was hyperactive and 
the medicine they gave me really 
mellowed me out. I was either 
bouncing off the walls or drugged 
to the gills. Hence, I tended to 
hang out with the outcast kids 
who were not known for giving 
greeting cards.
It was pretty lucky if we re
membered our own birthdays, let 
alone a fabricated holiday. Sure,
we remembered Valentines Day 
when the popular kids were try
ing to arrange for a trucking com
pany to come to the school to lug 
their ton of cards and candies 
home. Ive gotten overmostofthe 
bittemesB. I no longer wish for 
the glorious day of the revolution 
when the popular kids would be 
the first with their backs againBt 
the wall. Now I just, wish them 
bad sex.
It was on Valentines Day in 
eighth, maybe ninth, grade that I 
experienced my very first real 
kiss. Apparently, this wasnt her 
first kiss, because she knew what 
she was doing, and Im sure that 
I kissed like a dying dachshund. 
MoBt people would just enjoy this 
situation. I, on the other hand, 
could donothingbut sit andthink 
that God was watching and was 
starting to put me on the hell 
express list. I realize it was just 
a kiss, but it felt like I was danc
ing naked with a crew of airline 
stewardesses.
Valentines Day, although it is 
just a made-up holiday, is closely 
associated with the word  hold 
on, Im going to say it  love. 
That word has already inspired 
writers, good and bad, to write 
gooey stuff that makes most 
people need insulin injections if 
exposed to it. Its a natural topic 
because ofits nature. Its the only 
non-drug induced state where 
people can live in both fantasy 
and reality. The person you love 
could be an ax murderer, burying 
bodies in your basement, and you 
tell people, He never gets angry
with me. I think it has something 
to do with his hobbies. Not lying 
but certainly not grasping the 
fact that this might not be the 
healthiest situation.
I promise not to start waxing 
rhapsodic about love and how 
great it is, but I would like to tell 
you some genuine love stories 
that make me know I would never 
be able to write romance novels 
that feature Fabio on the cover. 
These actually happened and 
make me hope that love will not 
always inspire me to squirm in a 
pool of spit and palm sweat. They 
also show that, in love, fact and 
fantasy can become one.
He was working at a youth hos
tel in Arizona, and she, from En
gland, was traveling across the 
States and had stopped at this 
particular hostel to stay a day or 
two. They spent the day hiking 
mountain trails together and then 
went out to dinner and a movie. 
The next day she left and said she 
would be back in a few days. 
When she came back, he said to 
her, I love you, and I know if you 
leave and Im not with you, I 
wont ever see you again.
She was not as confident, but 
they drove across the country to-_ 
gether, and when they got to New 
York, she called her mother and 
told her she was bringing him 
home with her. They lived in 
England for a few years and now 
live in the StateB, happily mar
ried.
A man in England fell in love. 
He had never met the woman but 
had read about her and started
writing letters to her in Verona, 
Italy. His letters told of his love 
and the pain that life and love 
brought. Her name was Juliet 
Capulet. Obviously, he never got 
a reply, but he kept writing. Ap
parently, the post office felt bad 
for him and never returned the 
letters as undeliverable.
If it had been me in either situ
ation, I can only imagine a much 
worse outcome. The woman from 
England probably wouldve said, 
Guess we wont ever see each 
other again. And although im
possible, some freak of nature 
and science would have enabled 
a fictional character to write me a 
rejection letter. Then again, 
maybe not.
I enjoy my neuroses and the 
cynicism that comes with it. But, 
as of late, its been failing me. I 
have always believed in finding 
Ms. Right; however, I was pretty 
sure she knew who I was and that 
she was exerting most of her time 
and energy avoiding me. I dont 
worry as much anymore. Im not 
ready for marriage and kids 
the thought of it makes me want 
to crawl into a comer and whim
per. But, we are in love, and its 
not that bad. I still worry that I 
might kiss like a dying dachs
hund. Happy Valentines Day.
eSSrSuomu .iouNliS psrudl emt 
slic hkldNPi crSAiS ud oSSNli 
omRdmi uAou coS kPommrmK dm LrSST
rmK Arj uAou Ai rS jdli uAom crPPT
rmK ud kloburbi NmurP Ai KiuS rP 
lrKAut Ui uArmLS FomriPPi SAdNPs 
Lmdc SAi rS Pdqis R jomR uArS 
rS Bdl Ailt

---------------------------------------------------

 Al* m ftnmm
SUMMER STUDY ABROAD 
LANGUAGE, CULTURE AND THE ARTS
Receive 18/24 CMU units, room/board and supplemental excursions
FRANCE 
June 12-July 15
Two options of French for credit in Southern France. In Aix-en-Provence, study intensive elementary or 
intermediate French or combine French with courses in literature, civilization, art history, music, international 
relations, and business (taught in English). Participate in Aixs Music Festival. In Avignon, study Advanced 
French literature, culture, art history (in French) and be part of the Avignon Drama Festival. Fee of $3150 
includes tuition for two courses (18 units), lodging and most meals with a French family, excursions (e.g 
museums, Provence, and the French Riveria), films, lectures on art history and politics, and health 
insurance.
GERMANY 
July 5-July 30
At the Goethe Institute in the romantic, medieval walled city of Rothenburg located in the scenic Tauber 
Valley of northern Bavaria 24 hours of class per week allow ample free time for recreation and touring. Classes 
offered at all levels. Housing/full room and board in German nomes helps you get to know the local people. 
Tuition of $2430 for 18 units of credit.
SPAIN 
June 28-August 6
Study Spanish in Madrid in Puerto de Santa Maria at the Estudio Internacional Sampere. Choose either a four 
or six week program. Enjoy time in both the capital and Southern Spain. 24 hours of class per week Several 
recreational excursions are included in the tuition. Classes are offered at all levels . Housing/full room & board 
with Spanish families is included. Tuition of $2430 for 18 units and $3240 for 24 units.
Information also available on 
summer language programs in Russia and Japan.
Information Meeting: Wednesday, February 17
4:30-5:30 in Baker Hall 160 
For more information call Modern Languages (x5669)
Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller: 
a lot of Macintosh for an affordable price.
The best investments 
start with inside informata
Buill-in video support lets 
you aikl up lo a 6"Apple display 
with 256 colors.
II runs over 4,000 Macintosh 
programs, which all work in the same, 
consistent, intuitive way.
A screaming 25 MHz 68030 
microprocessor helps the Macintosh 
LC III computer run up to 50% faster 
than its best-selling predecessor.
Its internal disk drive comes in 
three big sizes: 40MB. 80MB or 160MB. 
So you can store lols of papers, 
letters, notes, ideas.
A burniti SuperDrlve' disk drive 
read's from and writes to Mucin tosh- and 
MS-DOS-formalled disks.
Add up lo seven external hard disk 
drives, scunners or other devices through 
the SCSI pori.
"Ex dB ^?h/S Suomsolst 
P8dl bdjkPiG KlokArbS dl imKrmiilrmK 
kldKlojSg qdm bom iqim iGkomu7 
RdNl C Nk ud HxO
The new Apple Macintosh LC III._____
When you know what weve built into the new Macintosh LC III sharing and more. See the new Macintosh LC III today by visiting your
computer, its low price tag looks even better. Its the successor to Apples Apple Campus Reseller. Where youll get special student pricing, as well as
top-selling personal computer-the Macintosh LC II. And it has even service during college? And discover the power of Macintosh.The mjm
more speed, power and flexibility. Plus built-in networking, built-in file power more college students choose. The power to be your best, w
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store or call 268-2636
6, W* *>   Vf*'- '''''' "/

---------------------------------------------------

ol umeSr viicps v dvn pvthyPakB
Sol FcRFlsl PAl o pvNhKlMNNk 
meIK BUT W W*T on I 1/
TWO TH I ?*><>
By GARY LARSON A MW6R IhlVESTNltNT IN STEEL MAKWisN 
IN LAUREL CouUTV. I
1(3) a seat For labor on the VV at directors, -------
CMHEEEEEEEE EEEEE EEEEEELoAvPd m
zr)/ ("sir  rr^ i at--1 v 'Wr > o ; iVw^v, vou 
/ /s, >^ BuwJJtyKS
EYCfc'j ' M'. i r^iL.7,J^NoTE, it>K 
EyftMPuE, ,wI 
olvPVD hPpWjh 
MV S jAIR-T IsKKK,ygy FwJyY r,y uwJbteyf .wgc-KDy CATrtOUC MI6H School" MjI> 
.PlAjVl -lPA SHM-ONv ACAOEMV" 
MA.R cH INO BAWt)S, MAMNG THEI. t*T 
RPPEAR*>JcE TOGETHER ..  j^5T~
BPP,iBPwIPPrWTEr[u]JJdUOPh] YPymgsy
U6ERT-/VIU.E IS rtEKE, THROWIWG Cftwt>y TO 
I THE xtsh WR r,y Cltowb... ---------''
Don't touch it, honey ... its just a face in the crowd.
.. MJt> THE HIAMGARIANMXI*MCE |* N 
THRoviW(> (ClELBASSA * STMFFET)
B7j-----VQftBA&t RouS To THE
CRP^P" .
APPARENTL-f, RUT10WS BETwEEnKjEU. NOW, THAT WAS" 
THE Tt^o 6roPS ARE wot/! CE[*TAIM,V -y
ENTIRELY COWMAI VET..)
...AMt> WERE CONES THE 
STEELWoRltERs union 
FLOAT, Fou-ou>et> BV 
the uwited TMBE S PIPE
F[cK V. I. P. s...
' b .://ft---
Xu're from fiance7 \Voi 
:$$$ RdN AoqOi PdqiPR iRiStC
OV_mvp LEU Hi s/
jGP,lP1uM MSuAl. 
Houi'S *SouT fv NEW 
CoKtatTtofcwT To SofVt 
l^PEAL hPwptlBMUK B
Amp THUS, AWoTHER hVduuR GRWK n A H*<-T. NEXT WEEK-- Vyp search for a Plot/^ Hey, everyone'. 
yi:li odfmo C DolrS )
Be a virus, see the world.
illw--mt, l|re\mm's \ 
mrm/Ms \ mzuccmms
OUT 0FY0UKN0S, 
^HONe/.T-r-y-"
-SU jNt xrj7-nh7 W-n ?v-uE
mrntxeswHeu
H6ersNM0US
cjNSt 
.mru/ni 
H&tm 7WK Tf
'He's mm.' 
mirm/ tttciiqvd ArS 
vPBP vOweyhO: 
$Erji 7 
M.Y/ /
i meipep 
; jmb?o7l 
' jt*r mm muse i Amae, L 
-.yahx: E
::E h-hmm.
U-miHb!,jSiB
smmMLPSON's 
4. Ujluibi7 /ujEhEhV 
e cjNiSSg 
5U/&B6KINC?
i mmwoF
I [\wmeD'
I
lili-Ow
7 DeDDW 9h f -- : ErSjiv V ; "
UE .-a e ^
u\mK-coBdm.
oh wmrrcAM 
BiU- cunirviJ 
D-hhxwW THINK OFVnx .?ihDhvl 
uBuEVuP-uE7
'No, roally, Mom  who do you like best?'
,r> wl1^ o- OC''f>'i!oci I ini-raA/cnV.
; r^oi^fy
TKi3 <
Jo or if
i\\S, fe'"5>
iricome. I
poiaoS of
,-j bicorni^
T-Vvree. )
v 1
j-y
-\-vir
ro-tor
you K3 
5or^eo^e
gots cv^ei'-Te S T^e reason, 
vje V,J Tonfili -p^t Tvy
8u) H^'J ',ou
-lo if creale f

---------------------------------------------------

By GARY LARSONXOTA 
ALARM CLOZX ^I'TH e sUOOZZ SU77aO.
q4akmAc:fUDiep?HEY, CAO r BORR0 YuGE OUCUMTOR?
towcLr
VWUEAJTOC'5 J>/V'hUZ SdciVUlVddt
OtJDV STUFPHCU FF8U &fto<AP Of 
Bet-TCwABU: Dlt
.KBUT WWM.V. I
OaA-Y BoTTtCS 
UtTH NO C^ST>5. NO LABELS, NO
jypiHitf-JnaipF.
1993 
2>y MAff"60WiN(6,fou neIS ruEuNu .bpp- me-'. y-"
Well, kid, ya beat me  and now every punk packin 
a paddle and tryin to make a name for himself will 
. come lookin for you!... Welcome to hell, kid."
'wWEK1EV6R I RA1S\ ft Dip pi co ut subject; 
booR. Response is to . 
v LEAVE THE RooM_/
Carararavr aearY
NmsilSuoms 0 ems R BANmsi7Rb 
iuuil i jollris iBdli RdN eve 
dB bNPu/mb4 Ail Aios dBB7ArOMt- T"* 5vic<n
jS ,*** ,ryoj TMMwt uw"1,10/ cw^00r srAKtr?'.L nife WM
Henry VIII on tho dating sconoaoo'ce ftVGKT ouPt h 
AP0L06*2. PuEASt TELL
ME UlHAT'S Wai JOU 
WHtObOO'ftE FlMlSHeo,
TH6WS SoKfeTHioG Staioos 1 u)ISH TO PllCWCr/----------
Whats a Wendell?by Matt Goldberg
Vett) You LOOK PRTrr AwuA
VtTy m pATHeric. ftewYmgKKK KI T WHY TH6 HECKU.SNew s Car SSSn giNM 616t
o Got>D <2.-Caso*J \^wny Xsh&qlq -Qt stuck o^ 
7^1 FiifSsowes/
r w ENoepup 
Dotw6 AN 87,Isu 
7e1 Car1 II 
n1gi R.if)TSToes;' s o(UaD wCm p.d 
(jiTTiMS CHAS.O
kiount) sv m
3q92ve50a
A2M oyefyVVS 
Uow'o THE 
iwttnvtevi ao?
TERRIBLE;/
)/ I.hWuH'. itK. iDiMnliulcil fl4 llm.fi-.jl Iirv. SwdCJIt
Drive, George, drive! This one's got a coathanger!'
h-n apewwW xe?p WnDeV Eea/neve xa-n/vO wpehV xh .-a eDh DeO DD nvVwjjg -avpww0  w-hV
olumeSrvi
xnV -. -nahp V:]wO]vJ wpYewt xnV v-V V- jrl UpwD hn..pavY Dp- OwpYew0 Dp y-nwD xp EE-aewt h-EpVEph W-n Ue(p V- evhypa Fe UYUpa  ( ''wey) 
ulto aPoshpm ref ndcvwgdj .eOI Cv' IC .vrIe{ .frwcInB {vvyM rvv{j dwd
&mQD0 -Uttt h-aaWt /x hnhX ?-hUpa)/ 1n-0 -vOx--?F)
cvpps r dmnt r jdj lmeEpev V- xaeYg Ue(pg Eevt xy:(p ewyeWh VUeV:h yUeV ev]ypapD V- EeDpEpe UYUpa wen/t VUv? -.W-n) f
whVpv nDg weDphP
hevuu jd v-wn Ueh Uh (paW -yv h-ew hpnaVW vnExpa) yuPak tBFRBA .
jrVPw EW xexWhVVvY xnDDp] Upea VUp vpyh) v- -vp:h Y-vY V- xpwp(p V)n/UeV0
(paWt whVpvg _-v?g  Y-VVe eh? W-n h-EpVUvYt
+EaD:h Y-VVpv ea-nvFg h- Dp-Dwp /nhV eww Ep yUpv VUpW hVeaV VUpa UpE- O _ / VUpaeDWttg
x--Dhp WpeUg VE -nV heD v VUp -Dpv v-y)EYUV -vOx--?) 7.vDW-n xW VUp f D-n/v vnExpah) vTUpapttt --wg 7UnU0 7m
p(paW .a De W vY?Vg  Ee?p e .aphU xeVU . xa-yvphg nV VUpE nDg yaeD VUpE evD Dpw) (pat ypE V- e)Dh ^ DeVpEV] v VUp)Dtf -yv U-Epht
VUev?h txnV :E -v DnV7t  -nwF w-hp EW h-ew hpnaVWt g
HOW'S YOUR. 
DISTRIBUTION 
SYSTEM WORK, 
CORNELL?
DapVVWhEDwpgapewwWttt
D-U:V WpeUg yUeV W-n D- W-n D-O y-aaW wpe(p :pEex-nV v VUp eDh Da/(pEW0 --Vph0 7
VV v(-w(ph Eea/nevegtnEtttv-tyUW0
-avpww) yUeV:h nD DnDp0hU--Vg Eev )
NSvpmmKPnh'@\'CpYaehi
MPImeuICKerBV H ELwJ,D 
WWjgDEsi
eDp W-n ae_W 0evD W-n  VUh p(paW ypp?0
:ww .@ Vpe yeV e EvO.-a VUp YnWhg nVp) W-n EeWxp hUeDp peV VUp e xa-yvpttt xa-yvphg^ I V--0
h- evWyeWg  Ee?p EW a-nvDhg Da-DDvY -.. Eea/neve xa-yvphg nhnewwW hVeWvY V- Vew?t
yUeV:h :VUp v-g v-t VUp xY Dpewg _0 U-wphVpa-w) e wVVwp (nh hv:V VUpYaehh :] evWE-apg, vp(pattt -a vpw)
p(paW ypp?  Ee?p e xY xeVU yVU xpVVW a-?pa xa-yvp E@tt xnV wehV ypp? EW hnDDwpa Y-VxnhVpDt  VU-nYUV EeWxp W-n EYUV ?v-y h-Ep-vp ^eusa.
UM...OCCA
SIONALLY. 
TOBE 
SOCIABLE.
 xe?p VVV- xa-yvph .-a hp(papwW ww ePDh.BBVpuBVht VUp Eea/neve UpwDh xP? VUp hDp p..pVh -. UpE-VUpaeDWt
nEttt ypwwg _-v?gVaWwpV:h hppt V- hVeWU-y ex-nV yVU EptDnvevUvph0 VUh h-aD7nhxnaW0 ED-aVevVt

---------------------------------------------------

COMICS
s/urn
OH LOVE UH SH0V4BM.L, 
PAiLKED W\TH CM!E, 
5MACK ^ UEM) THKT'S 
UNfkWMlE /
TUE DWMAICS OF INTESBlBisR 
m c6yooav (aPFbu 
1C DICK AHD JME . owC 8
IN PSKWK. TRM^SReUTOWL-fl
ACA.Dt'f^l

---------------------------------------------------

MU talent performs off campus in The Mikado
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Volrj himrdl huoBBclruil
If one followed a theatrical di
ng rod that was honed for 
juberant musical charm but 
repulsed by plausible storylines, 
me would unquestionably end 
up seeing something by Gilbert 
and Sullivan. The twin masters 
of Victorian musical farce have 
,ed a place in theatergoers 
larts with their whimsical tales 
idjoyous, ramblingsongs about 
ithing in particular.
While VAi ErLosd isnt the 
iost spectacular of their works, 
e Pittsburgh Savoyards do 
ough justice to the show to 
,ake it enjoyable.
The Pittsburgh Savoyards are
a 54-year-old troupe indigenous 
to Pittsburgh, whose theatrical 
tradition concentrates primarily 
on Gilbert and Sullivan and their 
contemporaries. The production 
of VAi ErLosd has been playing 
for several weeks in the Pitts
burgh region  presently in 
Squirrel Hill. Their production 
includes a highly talented cast of 
locals including Kristin Carbone 
(junior, voice and history), 
Tamara Hale (alumna, CFA 84), 
and Christopher Fox (staff, 
Alumni Relations)as well as a 
modest orchestral ensemble.
The musical is set in the feudal 
Japanese town of Titipu, which 
has barely scraped its way above 
village status  and even then, 
only by appointing all the re
quired posi
tions in the 
civil service 
to one man. 
Nan-ki-Poo, 
an imperial 
scion guised 
as a wan
dering min
strel, re
turns to 
Titipu to 
pursue the 
beautiful 
maiden.
The re
sulting tu
mult is typi
cal Gilbert 
and Sul
livan satire.
Ko-Ko promises Yum-Yums hand 
in marriage in exchange for 
Nanki-Poos head on the block in 
a month. Yum-Yum discovers 
that her husbands death would 
require her 
subsequent 
live burial 
and breaksoff 
the engage
ment. After 
Nanki-Poo 
feigns his 
death as a so
lution to the 
quandry, the 
emperor ar
rives, de
manding to 
see his miss
ing son.
The curves 
of the sto
ryline serve 
above all to 
provide tan
gential trajec
tories for gay 
musical out
bursts, which
however, was tragically marred 
by the poor acoustics of the Taylor-Allderdice auditorium, and 
much of the singing was blurred 
or drowned out completely.
lusting hilt.
The only complaint one could 
have with the production itself is 
the irritating insertion of 
metatextual or anachronistic
card as a prop. Most atrocious 
was a complete break in the per
formance wherein VAi ErLosd 
made some brief complaint about 
the script of the play. Far from 
being entertaining, these diver
sions served only to briefly shat
ter the rich atmosphere of the 
work.
Despite these flaws, the 
Savoyards ErLosd is a thor
oughly worthwhile event for those 
with a taste for the delightfulbut-silly. Tickets and informa
tion can be obtained by calling 
the Savoyards at 471-3436.
courtesy of The Pittsburgh Savoyards
Yum-Yum (Kristin Carbone) celebrates freedom from school with her 
sisters Plttl-SIng (Michelle Katz) and Peep-Bo (Laura Butler).
courtesy of The Pittsburgh Savoyards
constitute the bulk of the show.
The music, sometimes advanc
ing the plot and sometimes pro
viding only incidental amuse
ment, is cheerful, though its or
nate extravagance can get irri
tating.
The Savoyards production of 
VAi ErLosd is solid and involv
ing, and recaptures the wry elo
quence thats immortalized the 
musical. The Squirrel Hill show,
Distinguishing performances jokes, includfrom the cast include John ing referShulicks hearty portrayal of the ences to 
stuffy symbol of bureaucratic Sophie 
madness, Pooh-Bah; Ken Davies Masloff and 
rendition of the scheming Ko-Ko; Greenfield, 
and the part of Carbone as the disparaging 
delicate,yearningYum-Yum. But digs made at 
the show was heartily stolen by members of 
James Critchfield, who played the the orcheswild,gleaming-eyedemperor(the tra, and the 
titular Mikado) to the attention- useofacredit
courtosy of The Pittsburgh Savoyards 
Junior voice and history double major Kristin Carbono 
makes her dobut with the Savoyards In VAd EPL>rzPdt
This week at Forbes Gallery...
Senior art student Mia Brownell and junior art student Ken Tator 
exhibited their work this past week at the Forbes Gallery. A 
reception was held on Friday evening, inviting the public to 
appreciate their works.
Northern Exposure warned not to break too much tension
commmteitainnient*canunOTtertamnMntconmientertamnient 
By TARA M. SEMAN
Voluom dmulrNurmK psrudl
If youve been watching any television on CBS this past 
^weekend, then youve probably seen the latest vdluAilm pGkdT
SNli promo. If youre a diehard vdluAilm pGkdSNli fan, do not 
miss tonights episode. Youre probably asking yourself why. 
According to the February 12 issue of pmuiluormjimu yiiLPRg 
Maggie (Janine Turner) and Joel (Rob Morrow) are finally going 
to have their roll in the hay.
When an ill wind blows through Cicely, the strangest, most 
incredible things are going to happen. Tuesday morning, every
one is going to be talking about what happened on vdluAilm 
pGkdSNlit Make sure youre one of them, declares CBSs promo. 
The clips in the promo show Maggie hitting Joel (twice); a bunch 
of sheep; Joel and Maggie rolling in the hay; Joel aiding Maggie 
in the removal of her sweater; and ends with Maggie and Joel 
reading menus at the Brick, where Joel says, Youre blushing, 
and Maggie responds, I cant help it.
Okay, so weve all been expecting this to happen for quite some 
time. Dont bother denying it. We all remember the sexual 
tension between Sam (Ted Danson) and Diane (Shelley Long) in 
the early days of AiilSg the love-hate relationship between 
Maddie (Cybill Shepard) and Dave (Bruce Willis) on EddmPrKAuT
rmKg and the angst over the mutual attraction that plagued 
Hannah (Jamie Lee Curtis) and Marty (Richard Lewis) on 
emRuArmK xNu wdNit
Im sure we all remember what happened after these pairs 
broke that sexual tension. The storylines got boring. And the 
shows fizzled.
After Sam and Diane of AiilS slept together, the tension was 
gone and the storylines involving their characters became 
stupid. It seemed like they were alternating between planning 
their wedding or breaking up every other week. Viewers found 
this tedious, and Kirstie Alley was brought in to play Rebecca 
and create new sexual tension with Sam.
The witty sparring that was the trademark of Maddio and 
Daves tempestuous relationship went flat. Each EddmPrKAurmK 
episode became a new way to showcase the characters in bed. 
There were no more slapstick twists on classic stories like The 
Taming of the Shrew and The Veiled Woman episodes. How 
could the clich of Maddie and Dave fighting but ending up in 
bed compare with the hilarity of four people (including both 
Maddie and Dave) dressed in the same outfit complete with 
veiled hat sliding on freshly shampooed carpet? It simply 
couldnt. After emRuArmK xNu wdNi9o Hannah and Marty tumbled 
into bed, Richard Lewis multitudinous (and hysterical) neuro
ses were wasted by being used to create conflict that was 
resolved in bed. The comic interplay of the characters was 
destroyed. And the show was no more.
Im keeping my fingers crossed that this fate doesnt befall 
vdluAilm pGkdSNlit I hope that this roll in the hay isnt the first 
step to the happily-ever-after ending for Maggie and Joel. Those 
endings are fine, but theyre also boring. Conflict is what will 
keep us watching. I hope CBS remembers that.
$" One of Mia Brown
ells pieces at the 
Forbes Gallery exhibit 
last week.
Amy Slms/Tartan Photographer
And at the Hewlett Gallery in CFA ...
Shlgehiko Hongo, currently a fellow and artist In residence at CFA's Studio for 
Creative Inquiry, brings part of his Ponko (water pump) series of works (Ponko 
101-115) to the Hewlett Gallery, now through Saturday, February 27. His 
- nteractlve exhibits attempt to create communication between the object and the 
viewer. Call the Hewlett Gallery at X3877 for gallery hours.
One of Shigehiko Hongos pieces now currently on display at the Hewlett Gallery. ?
A Freshman art student Alexa Brennon looks at one of 
Mia Brownells works, Of Saying, during Friday 
evenings reception.
Jennifer Urso/Tartan Photo Editor
? One of Ken Tator's untitled pieces.

---------------------------------------------------

L8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  15 February 1993
LVIS COSTELLOHE JULIET LETTER^
THC BRODSKY QUARTCT
courtesy of Warner Brothers Records, Inc.
MINI REVIEWS  MINI REVIEWS  MINI REVIEWS
Elvis Costello, 
The Juliet Letters
Elvis Costello, one of the origi
nal bad boys of punk rock, has 
taken off in quite a different di
rection with his new album, VAi 
/NPriu wiuuilSt This is a concept 
album. He and his wife, former 
Pogues bassist Cait ORiordan, 
read a story about an Italian pro
fessor who had found a crate of 
letters that were written, seri
ously, to Juliet Capulet of adjid 
oms /NPriu fame anfl wrote a col
lection of songs built around the
idea.
Usually, Costello songs are 
filled with reminders of other 
artists such as Van Morrison, The 
Beatles, Johnny Cash, and Roy 
Orbison. Where he varied from 
these was in the bite of his com
mentary. Do not expect this from 
this album. Some of the bite and 
anguish 8 still there, but it has 
none of the guitar or keyboards 
that dominate most of his work. 
It is arranged for a string quartet 
and follows a particular theme 
throughout, much like a musical 
drama.
Assisting Costello is The 
Brodsky Quartet. This young 
group of musicians have been 
playing together for 20 years and 
all of the members are still in 
their early 30s. Hence, they bring 
both youth and great experience 
to Costellos new musical voice. 
Members of the quartet helped 
write both music and lyrics on 
the album. According to adPPrmK 
hudmi EoKo3rmig Costello, just 
having taught himself to read 
and write music, didnt want to 
limit the music. He thought their 
experience could only add depth 
to the project.
Costello wrote songs that are 
supposed to be letters and con
versations between those in
volved  the man writing to 
Juliet, his wife, the children, and 
Juliet. The album opens up with 
an overture titled Deliver Us, 
and is followed with the opening 
letter, For Other Eyes. The 
opening letter is from the mans 
wife to a friend about her pain at 
losingher husband to Juliet. Then 
Costello takes us through the 
trouble being experienced by the 
family of the man and those of 
the Capulets. With the song, 
"Taking My Life In Your Hands, 
we are shown the mans obses
sion with Juliet and how it leads 
to him divorcing his wife. I wont 
give away the ending. The whole 
album paints a picture of pain 
and obsession while maintaining 
asenBeof compassion for the char
acters.
It is hard to describe the or
chestral music, mostly because I
dont know enough about it. How
ever, the music seems, to me, to 
be a blend of Stephen Sondheim 
and Lehmer and Lowe. I have 
never heard such a good combi
nation oflyrics and music. Melody 
and emotion meet in a rich tex
ture.
Someone said to me that I 
wouldnt be able to write an ob
jective review because of how 
taken I was with the concept. But 
the amount of pitfalls that could 
be involved here made me very 
wary of how well this project 
would come off.
Costello did it. He was able to 
take an idea that was no easy feat 
and turn it into a beautiful piece 
of art.
If you arent an Elvis or, for 
that matter, a rock and roll fan, 
this album is still worth getting. 
And if you are, VAi /NPriu wiuuilS 
might be a nice introduction to 
something different.
 Andrew Sproule
The Temp
Picture this. A serene scene in 
Portland, Oregon. A small family-owned baked goods company 
by the name of Mrs. Applebees. 
This cozy setting may seem like 
yrPPR ydmLo oms uAi AdbdPoui 
.obudlRg butfordirectorTim Hol
land it spells murder and may
hem. Holland, whose films in
clude ArPs9S DPoR and .lrKAu 
vrKAug brings chaos and turmoil 
to Mrs. Applebees executives in 
the new film by Paramount, VAi 
Vijkt
VAi Vijk first seems to depict
Mrs. Applebees as a quiet, small
town business, but this picture 
all changes after a hostile take
over by a New York firm. Sud
denly, the small-town company 
is now one of getting ahead, power 
plays, and hardball. The film is a 
grim reflection of competitve 
workplaces. VAi Vijk is brought 
to life by a brilliant cast of char
acters exploring the potential 
danger of personal involvements 
on the job. It stars Timothy 
Hutton, Laura Flynn Boyle, and 
Faye Dunaway.
Academy Award-winner Hut
ton plays the starring role as Pe
ter Dems. Known most for his 
roles in 1 Z e and VokSg Hutton 
plays a different from most of his 
past roles. Peter Derhs has a list 
of problems that range from be
ing a paranoid delusionist to hav
ing mortgage troubles. With his 
career in jeopardy because of the 
takeover, Peter sees his new 
temp, Kris Bolin (played by Boyle) 
as a dream come true. He gives 
her complete access to his private 
and business life and soon re
grets it, realizing this dream is 
really a nightmare.
Boyle assumes the role of Kris 
Bolin, the overexuberant secre
tary who aims to please, by any 
means necessary, serving the 
boss, in the best, most efficient 
way possible. Most will remem
ber Boyle from her role of Donna 
Hayward in the television series 
Vcrm DioLSt No stranger to weird 
plots, Boyle fitB this character 
like a glove. Not only is Kris Bolin 
intelligent and good looking, the 
far-away look that Boyle puts in 
her eye keeps you wondering what 
she is thinking.
Other familiar faces are Steven 
Weber from the hit sitcom yrmKS 
and Dwight Schultz who is best 
known for his role as Howling 
Mad Murdock from the televi
sion series VAieOViojt The most
familiar face to all should be 
Dunaway who plays the charac
ter ofCharleneTowne. Dunaway, 
an Academy Award and Golden 
Globe winner, and Oscar nomi
nee, takes on the role of a strong 
woman as president of Mrs. 
Applebees. Similar to her work 
in the film Edjjri FioliSug she 
has a wicked look that makes you 
see that she, too, is ruthless. She 
is the old regime and she wants to 
stay on.
VAi Vijk is a contemporary 
thriller set in the corporate jungle. 
However, the physical small town 
setting offers some breathtaking 
footage. The scenes of Portland, 
Oregon highlight the beauty of 
the town. Most who believe Port
land is a rainy town may now 
think differently. The cliff-hanger 
scenes are filmed just as well as 
the office scenes. Even the back
ground scenes look authentic.
With the combination of good 
actors and great settings this fi]m 
is, all in all, above average. Al
though it at times has you won
dering where it is going or how it 
will end, it finally does end with 
a pitfall. Many scenes may be 
predictable for a horror film, but 
they are handled with prolonged 
suspense, which ends up making 
the predictability not so notice
able.
VAi Vijk is a combination of 
.ouoP euuloburdm and DSRbAd on 
yoPP huliiug all rolled into one. At 
the end you may find yourself 
wondering what actually hap
pened.
One thing that you will not 
wonder about is the decision to 
hire a secretary. Temporarily or 
not.
 Nicole Allen
courtesy
Timothy Hutton and Lara Flynn Boyle star In The Temp, a psychological 
thriller about a temp secretary gone bad.
Unibed Wy
CANCN Nassau, Paradise Island
c/>
Spring Break Vacation
*rom $299I
cnOrganlz* a mall group for fro* trip2cCall 1 (800) GET-SUN-1CEParadise Island BAHAMASV
ATTENTION
MAY GRADS
A highly successful investment firm 
with unlimited opportunities for 
bright, ambitious students is seeking
computer science, finance, 
and economics majors.
Sign up for consideration on our 
interview schedule (#3987) no 
later than February 19, in the 
Career Center.
sVrvess OBB%i 
v <5
Im 
.-i*-. -
Would
like to earn valuable job
experience in your free time as a 
part of THE TARTAN? For more informa
tion call Mike or Keegan at x2111.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  15 February 1993L9
CINEMA SCOPE
Thursday, February 18
Blue Velvet
Long before Twin Peaks ever came into exist
ence, there was David Lynchs critically acclaimed 
BlueVelvet. Starring Kyle MacLachlan (Dune, Twin 
Peaks), Dennis Hopper (Rebel Without a Cause, 
Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2), and Lancome model 
Isabella Rossellini, this film explores the sordid 
underside life of a seemingly picture-perfect small 
town.
MacLachlan plays Jeffrey, a clean-cut college 
student who comes back to his hometown of 
Lumberton to look after his father, who has re
cently fallen ill. Walking home through a field, 
Jeffrey discovers a severed human ear lying in the 
grass.
His curiosity to solve the mystery behind this ear 
pulls him into a fateful triangle consisting of Dor
othy (Rossellini), a night club singer with a deadly 
secret; Frank Booth (Hopper), the psychotic drug 
dealer who has kidnapped her husband and son 
and forces Dorothy to submit to his sadistic sexual 
habits; and Sandy (Laura Dern), the sweet and 
clean daughter of a police detective.
Lynchs vision of the conflict between good and 
evil is seen through Jeffreys love for both Dorothy 
and Sandy.
If youre ready for an evening full of bizarre 
Lynch nightmares, go see this movie.
At 6, 8:30, and 11 pm.
Friday, February 19
Bob Roberts
Written, directed by, and starring Tim Robbins 
(The Player), this film takes a darkly humorous and 
satirical look at the world of politics. Robbins plays 
Bob Roberts, a folk-singing Senatorial candidate 
who masks a fascist heart.
This film pokes fun at self-righteous right-wing 
political candidates who hide behind the flag pub
licly while slandering their opponents, and the 
ratings hungry media who let them get away with 
it.
Gore Vidal plays Roberts maligned opponent. 
Appearances are made by other stars, including 
John Cusack, Susan Sarandon, Alan Rickman, and 
James Spader.
At 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Saturday, February 20
School Ties
Brendan Fraser (Encino Man) stars as David 
Greene, a young man who is recruited from his 
hometown in Scranton, Pennsylvania to be the star 
quarterback at an elite New England boys prep 
school.
Pretty standard movie idea, right? Boy goes to 
prep school, does male bonding things, becomes a 
man, and all that, right? Well, this story offers an 
interesting twist; Greene is Jewish, something 
that doesnt always go over so well in elite New 
England boarding schools.
David tries to hide his being Jewish, and this 
works for a little while. But inevitably his friends 
find out, and both he and they are forced to confront 
their prejudices and find a way to resolve them.
At 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Sunday, February 21
The Brain From 
Planet Arous
In this immensely enjoyable 1958 film, a large 
hamburger-like floating brain, Gor, takes over 
nuclear physicist John Agar. Equipped with his 
new, shiny, black, alien controlled eyes, Agar de
stroys an airplane by staring at it, laughing mania
cally at a job well done. Soon, a rival alien brain, 
Vol, arrives and takes over Agars dog. Agar and the 
dog battle, controlled by the alien brains, until the 
exciting climax when Agars girlfriend, Joyce Mead
ows, attacks the bad brain with an axe. The direc
tor, Nathan Juran, who had previously directed 
Attack of the 50-foot Woman and Hellcats of the 
Navy, with Ron and Nancy Reagan, directed this 
film under the pseudonym Nathan Hertz.
At 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
By BRYAN LASLEY and TINA L. URSO
IvvWcgv 
ASdjva Egvf
National Lampoon's 
Loaded Weapon I
(Monday through Wednes
day, 8, 10 pm; Thursday, 8, 10 
pm, midnight)
The National Lampoon folks 
are back yet again, with an
other sure-to-be-silly spoof 
film.
m.Pcddvy Ncyy civrn 
VSdyt 
ASdDndt Egvf
Homeward Bound
(Monday, 12:45,2:25,4:05, 
5:45, 7:25, 9:10 pm; Tuesday 
through Thursday, 5:45, 7:25, 
9:10 pm)
Disney studios bring us the 
story of Shadow, Chance, and 
Sassy, two dogs and a cat, who 
are separated from their human 
family and have to travel back 
home.
What ensues is a animal ad
venture of classic Disney style.
As they Journey through the 
wild, they offer their thoughts to 
the audience via voice-overs. 
Animals' voices provided by 
Michael J. Fox, Sally Field, and 
Don Ameche.
The Vanishing
(Monday, 1,3:10,5:15,7:35, 
9:45 pm; Tuesday through Thu rsday, 5:15, 7:25, 9:35 pm)
Jeff Harriman is driven to find 
the answer to his former 
girlfriends mysterious disap
pearance three years ago.
Stars Jeff Bridges, Kiefer 
Sutherland, and Nancy Travis.
A Few Good Men
(Monday, 1:50, 4:30, 7:15, 
9:55 pm; Tuesday and Thursday, 
4:30, 7:15,9:55 pm)
Two Marines are courtmartialed fof murder in this Rob 
Reiner adaptation of the Andrew 
Sorkin Broadway play. StarsTom 
Cruise, Demi Moore, and Jack 
Nicholson.
sWv KniSd 
KPddn, EgvB
(full listing was not avail
able at time of printing, please 
contact theatre for complete 
listing of times)
Directed by and starring Aime. 
Roberto Benignl, this film has 
become Italys largest box-offlce hit since Cinema Paradlso.
Benlgni plays dual roles as 
Johnny, the mobster, and Dante, 
the nerdy school bus driver.
Wings of Desire
(Wednesday, 7:30,9:45 pm)
Sommersby
Set in the Civil War, follows 
the story of Jack Sommersby (Ri
chard Gere) as he returns home 
severalyears after he ispresumed 
dead.
Although he is able to bring 
his town back to prosperity and 
turn his previously bitter mar
riage into a passionate romance, 
doubts begin to arise that he 
may not be the man he claims to 
be.
Scent of a Woman
Starring Al Pacino as an exArmy lieutenant who spends 
Thanksgiving weekend with a 
youngscholarship student (Chris 
ODonnell).
Acyrrn-vda nh 
hWv APyhSi 
T mchW mhfB HSDihSDi
Johnny Stecchlno
(Monday through Thursday,
8 pm)
1991: The Year 
Punk Broke
Offbeat documentary of Sonic 
Youths 1991 European tour. In
cludes concert footage and be
hind the scenes interviews with 
the band, in addition to perfor
mances and backstage inter
views with Nirvana, Dinosaur Jr., 
The Ramones, Gumball, and 
Babes In Toyland.
sWv chhajPd[W yn,]
WSPav 
 dnwh Egvf
The Shining
(Monday, 7:30 pm)
Stanley Kubrick's film adap
tation of the eponymous Stephen 
King novel. Jack Nicholson stars 
in his classic role as the off-sea
son caretaker of an isolated re
sort hotel who begins to lose his 
mind. Also stars Shelley Duvall 
and Danny Lloyd.
La Dolce Vita
(Tuesday, 7:30 pm)
Fellini film starring Marcello 
Mastrolannl as a tabloid reporter 
who feels that his life In shallow 
Rome society Is worthless but 
cantseem to change it. Also star
ring Anita Ekberg and Anouk
1988 German film from di
rector Wlm Wenders about a 
pair of angels who wander 
through the streets of West Ber
lin, wondering what it would be 
like to be human. Inspired In part 
by some Rainer Maria Rilke po
ems.
Without You 
I'm Nothing
(Thursday, 7:30, 9:30 pm)
Film adaptation of Sandra 
Bernhards wild, off-the-wall, 
one-woman off-Broadway show 
(starring Bernhard herself), where 
she examines American pop 
culture by doing parodies of pop 
stars.
Indochlne
(Friday and Saturday, 7,9:40 
pm; Sunday, 7 pm)
Catherine Deneuve stars In 
this film about Frances slipping 
hold on French Indochina (now 
Vietnam) In the '30s and 40s.
Further complicating the 
storyline is the relationship be
tween Camille, her adopted 
mother, and a French naval of
ficer whom they both love. The 
National Film Board of Reviews 
choice for 1992 Best Foreign Film, 
and Official French entry for the 
1992 Acadamy Awards.
By TINA L. URSO
HAIR CUTS 
EVERY DAY$10 
CIMINI
^ walk-ins welcome 
406 S. Craig St.
1 BLOCK AWAY (OFF FORBES AVE.)621-4247
SELL FUNDRAISING CANDY
LOWEST PRICES NO 
RISK TOP BRANDS  
REESE'S, M&M, 
HERSHEY, AND MORE..
Call for detailsand brochure
McKeesport Candy Co. 673-4406
Want to lose weight? 
Want to be more active?
T
he University of Pittsburgh Medical Center is offering a new 
research weight loss program. Participation could help you 
lose weight and will increase your activity level.
If you are age 25 to 55, are 20 to HO pounds overweight, and live 
or work within 30 minutes of the Oakland section of Pittsburgh, 
you may be eligible to participate in this free, six-month study.
For more information, please call (412) 624-4879.
nmrqilSruR dB DruuSNlKA E#srboP imuil
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRPARKS 
TO EIJROPK
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
Come to the Pride of Texas..
SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics, a leading semiconductor manu
facturer, has immediate needs for:
Design Engineers - SRAM
?am liroc a BSEE in Engineering with knowledge of DIGITAL and 
SRAMdetign desfgn tools for logic/analog simulation, schemata 
capture layout and design verification. A strong semiconductor orien
tation is also required.
Wo nffr an excellent compensation and benefits package. For
^medate consideration, Qualified candidates please FAX your
rTsume to: (214) 466-7196 or send your resume to.
SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics
Attn: Technical Recruiter
M.S. 776, Dept. COL
1310 Electronics Drive
Carrollton, TX 75006
No phone calls please.
a.SGS-THOMSON
Equal Opportunity Employer
SHORT TERM LEASES 
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 
1 OR 2 BEDROOM 
APARTMENT SUITES
A few steps from fashionable Walnut Street shops and 
restaurants. From S47 per day (on a monthly basil). 
Beautifully Accessori/ed-EvcrythiiiK Included!
5-405 Fifth Avenue, PlHlburRli, I'A IS232Toll Free HU-767-H4H3
r
CAMPUS CUSTOMER COUPON
i jf e Q Vi i
L
$10.00 off your ncxi May 
At Shady&ide InnJ
Now forming for all CMU students:
Eating Disorder Support Group
meets every Tuesday in the Mudge Lounge at 
3:00pm - 4:00pm
For more information, call 268-2922

---------------------------------------------------

/N
UNI VERSI
Ui
esjrSSrdm ud oPP FU,,C BrPjS rS[P Bdl 
SuNsimuS cruA F> [, duAilcrSit esjrST
Srdm ud oPP DruuSNlKA DPoRAdNSi BrPjSg 
Pdbouis ou ,,, loBu eqimNig rS ["t
The Shining plays tonight at 7:30 pm 
at the Playhouse.
Blue Velvet plays Thursday in DH 
2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Bob Roberts shows Friday night in 
DH 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Money Man, a documentary about the 
controversial artist, J. S. G. Boggs, a 
CMU fellow of Art and Ethics, will be 
held at 6:30 pm on Saturday at Fulton 
Theater, 101 Sixth Street, downtown. 
For more information, call 431-3940.
School Ties can be seen Saturday in 
DH 2210. Showtimes are 6, 8, 10 pm, 
and midnight.
Brain from the Planet Arous plays 
in DH 2210 on Sunday. Showtimes are 
at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Indochine, a Pittsburgh premiere, 
shows Friday through Sunday at the 
Playhouse. Showtimes are at 7 and 
9:30 pm Friday and Saturday nights, 
and 7 pm (only) on Sunday.
Shadyside College Fellowship is on 
Fridays at 6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss 
or Annette Ediger at 682-4300.
Lectures
Copyright1992 Paramount Pictures 
David Greene (Brendan Frazer, center) defends his decision to attend an elite New England prep school against the 
prejudice of his hometown.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds meetings every Monday 
at 7 pm at the Friends Meeting House. 
Donations of $1 accepted. For more 
information, call Bill King at 276-1768.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club
holds its meetings Tuesdays at 5 pm in 
the Tartan loft. For more information, 
email db74 or jt3y.
The CMU Lesbian/Bisexual 
Womens Discussion Group meets 
Tuesdays at 7:30 pm in the CMU 
Womons Center. Questioning? Posi
tively sure? Come to the discussion 
group for friendly talk and fun.
CMU Shorin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 
pm in Activity Room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Beginners are welcome.
Discover ways to personalize your 
Andrew accountl The CMU Computer 
Club will toach Andrew survival skills 
this Tuesday at 7 pm in Wean Hall 
7500. Pizza and pop will be provided.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on 
Tuesdays from 8:30-10:30 pm and 
Thursdays from 8-10 pm in Activity 
room B, and Sundays from 24 pm in 
Activity room A. For more information 
email cd2b or call x4179.
Student Senate meetings are every 
Tuesday in the Wherrett Room at 7 pm. 
All members of the campus community 
are welcome to attend and speak dur
ing audience participation.
An aerobics superclass, taught in
terval training style, will be held in the 
gym Wednesday from 5-6:30 pm as 
part of the sixth Annual Health Fair.
Fear Public Speaking? Every first 
and third Wednesday the Toastmas
ters Club sponsors a speech communi
cation workshop at the Carnegie Li
brary in Oakland, from 7-8:30 pm. For 
more information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is
held on Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the 
Israel room (337) of the Cathedral of 
Learning. Call Rabbi Shmuel Weinstein 
at 683-7770 for more information.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts
burgh, meets Wednesdays at 7 pm in 
the first floor conference room of the 
Carnegie Library. The group is an open 
forum for writers and writers-to-be. 
Call 421-8140 to learn more.
The Sixth Annual Health and Fitness Fair will be held Wednesday from 
11-4 pm in the Skibo Ballroom.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x2114.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have 
fun while getting involved in business 
activities at CMU. All majors are wel
come. Questions? Call Jeff at x4693.
Fifth Year Scholars program infor
mation sessions will be held Thursday 
at 4:30 pm in the Ballroom. Applica
tions are now available in the Office of 
the Dean of Student Affairs, Warner 
Hall 206, and are due Monday, March 
15 at 5 pm. Questions about the pro
gram may be directed to Katie 
Stannard, assistant to the dean of Stu
dent Affairs at x2073.
A public demonstration of Aikido,
a Japanese martial art, will be held 
Saturday in the gym from 12-2:30 pm.
A Rational Recovery support group 
for those with alcohol or drug problems 
meets every Friday at 7:30 pm. Meet
ings are free and held in Room 205 of 
the Wightman Community Center 
Building in Squirrel Hill. For informa
tion on this and other RR meetings in 
the Pittsburgh area, phone 261-5363.
The Fencing Club holds practices in 
the Fencing Room of the Gymnasium 
Sunday afternoons at 12:30 pm and 
Tuesday evenings at 6:30 pm. All levels 
of talent are welcome.
Student Environmental Action 
Coalition meets every Sunday at 4:30 
pm in Gray Matter. SEACs job is to 
motivate students to become actively 
involved in working towards protect
ing our environment. For more infor
mation, call Josh Knauer at 4949.
Campus Affairs Chair Burt 
Holzman is looking for volunteers to 
help enforce the new poster policy. If 
interested, call x4729.
Theres only one week left in the 
Spring Carnival Silver Screen Logo 
Contest! All logos must be turned in to 
the Skibo Information Desk by next 
Monday at 5 pm. The grand prize is 
$100 cash and two free t-shirts! Rules 
are posted in Grey Matter.
The Volunteer Babysitting Net
work is looking for student parents in 
financial need of free childcare and 
students, staff, and faculty interested 
in babysitting. For more information, 
call or write David Pegher at x4840, 
Box 1107, or email dp31.
Showtimes are 8 pm Tuesday through 
Saturday, and 2 pm Sunday. Perfor
mances run through February 28. For 
more information, call 624-0933.
The Secret Garden will be performed 
Friday at 7 pm and Saturday at 11 am 
and 2 pm. Performances will be held in 
the Moon Township Performance Hall 
of Robert Morris College. For informa
tion, call the box office at 262-8336.
Dandelion, the award winning 
childrens musical, will be presented at 
Second Stage in Apollo on Saturday 
and Sunday at 4 pm. Tickets are $3. For 
additional information, call 478-2629.
Hall, 125 N. Craig Street in Oakland. 
Student tickets are $5. For more infor
mation, call 682-7262.
Celebrate African American heri
tage by attending the Voices United 
Gospel Choir concert to be given Sun
day at 5 pm. The concert will be held at 
Bethany Baptist Church, 7724 Tioga 
Street, Homewood.
Compline Prayer at the End of the
Day is sung every Sunday night at 9:30 
pm at the Heinz Chapel. For more in
formation, call 682-6886.
Author Lore Segal, best known for 
her autobiographical memoir -uAil 
DidkPiS9 UdNSiSg will read and discuss 
her works Wednesday, at 8 pm in the 
Adamson Wing.
The Steel Industry in the 1990s and 
Beyond is the title of this Wednesdays 
segment of the Japan Business Lecture 
Series. The lecture will be held from 6* 
8 pm in GSIAs Mellon Auditorium.
The Self-Knowledge Symposium 
presents philosopher Richard Rose, 
author of VAi ePrKim DokilSg in his 
dynamic self-inquiry VAi wibuNli dB 
1NiSurdmSt The lecture will take place 
Thursday at 7:30 pm in the Cathedral 
of Learning, rm 324.
Thursdays Grants for the Arts 
Workshop will feature representatives 
from the Arts Council and the New 
Forms Program to explain the applica
tion selection process. The workshop 
will be held in CFArm 314, from 5-8:30; 
pm. Admission is free, but you must1 
register by calling x3451.
Economic conversion expert Ann 
Markusen will speak Friday at the 
Soldiers and Sailors Auditorium on dismantlingthe Cold War economy. Spon
sored by the World Federalist Associa
tion of Pittsburgh, this lecture will start 
at 8 pm. To register, call 471-7852.
Sports
Explore the similarities between 
the Vietnam and Afghanistan wars
at tomorrows opening display of com
bat photography. A video will follow 
the 6:30-8:30 pm opening. This event 
will take place at the Soldiers and Sail
ors Memorial Hall in Oakland. For more 
information, call 391-8443.
Pittsburgh Collects presents a sur
vey of privately and publicly held ex
amples from area collections. This ex
hibit opens Saturday and will be on 
display through April 25.
Music
The comedy-drama A Month in the 
Country will have its opening night 
performance Wednesday at the Stephen 
Foster Memorial Theatre in Oakland.
KevynLettau performs tomorrow at 9 
pm as part of the ongoing Bud Light 
Jazz Series at Rosebuds. Admission is 
$3 at the door. For more information or 
directions, call 341-7900.
ATS will perform Friday at the Unitar
ian Church at Morewood and Ellsworth 
as part of the Pastors for Peace benefit 
concert. The concert begins at 7 pm, 
and proceeds will go towards medical 
supplies for El Salvador. For more in
formation, call 521-7383.
Love through the ages is the Valen
tine theme for the Pittsburgh Sym
phony Concert taking place this Friday 
through Sunday at 8 pm. Ticket infor
mation can be obtained by calling the 
Heinz Hall Box Office at 392-4800.
Local bands Monkey House and 
Emily Britain will perform Thursday 
at the Electric Banana on Bigelow Blvd. 
in Oakland. The show starts at 9:30. 
Tickets are available in advance for $2 
(by calling x7116) or $3 at the door.
The Jewish Community Center Or
chestra will perform in concert Sun
day at 3 pm in Rodef Shaloms Levy 
Hall, located at 4905 Fifth Avenue. 
Student tickets are $3. For additional 
information, call 321-8010, x250.
The Renaissance and Baroque So
ciety will present VAlii DoluS nkdm o 
YldNms Saturday at 8 pm in Synod
Shabbat Candlelit Dinner is held at 
the Chabad House on Friday evenings 
at sundown and on Saturdays at 2 pm. 
Contact Sara Weinstein at 683-7770 
for more information.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors doeuvres) 
at 5:30 pm, services at 6 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House invites all students to 
explore the meaning of stress from a 
Biblical standpoint Thursdays from 7- 
8 pm. For more information or direc
tions, call x4391.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through 
Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated 
at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday 
in the GSIAmain auditorium. For more 
information, call The Oratory at 681- 
3181.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites you to attend contem
porary services Sun
days at 11 am in the 
Central Christian 
Church located at 134 
N. Dithridge. For in
formation, call 621- 
6760.
.dl jdli rmBdljourdmg boPP xlNbi YilSdm 
ou GHJt
The mens basketball team plays 
Denison University Wednesday at 7:30 
pm in the gym.
The womens basketball team plays 
Allegheny College at 5:30 pm, Wednes
day in the gym.
The mens and womens basketball 
teams play at New York University 
Friday at 8 pm.
Mens and womens indoor track 
competes Saturday at the Robert Morris 
College Invitational, time TBA.
The CMU hockey club plays West 
Virginia University Saturday at the 
Morgantown Ice Rink at 4:15 pm.
The mens basketball team plays at 
Emory University Sunday at 3 pm.
The CMU hockey club plays Slippery 
Rock University this Sunday at the 
Golden Mile Ice Arena in Monroeville 
from 6-8:30 pm.
The Church of the 
Ascension (Episco
pal) welcomes all stu
dents to join those who 
worship, serve, andfellowship there. They 
hold services on Sun
days with a Eucharist 
at 8:30 am, a college 
class at 9:30 am, and 
morning worship at 
11:30 am in the chapel 
located on the corner 
of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. 
For more information, 
contact Hank Suhr at 
621-4361.
Shadyside Presby
terian Church holds 
worship service Sun
days at 11 am, college 
class at 9:45 am.
POPIIU
Tiff-I am so happyl Its great 
that things are working out. 
Happy Valentines Dayl 
Love, Deke (and yes, you can 
drive).
SWIMMER?
Brendan confesses his bisexu
ality:
Did you do Ramsey?
I did Ramsey between Laura 
and Tina.
KAPPA ALPHA THETA? 
Mike, our third Valentines
Day together! Whod of 
thunkit? Hove you very 
much. Happy Val
entines Day!
Love, Heidi
BON JOVI?
Sweetie  Im taking 
you to dinner tonight 
and to hell with Dy
namics! Were an en
dangered species, you 
know, so HAPPY 
VALENTINES DAY,
SWEETHEART! I love 
you.
FLOOR SEATS!
Puddin Buns.......Act
ing Forum Editor
CHECK YOUR MAIL 
ON WEDNESDAY!
