Volume 88. Issue 16Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania7 February 1994
THE TARTAN
confused...
! The 8.Isue16.Ca.r ng1i.au Mg6 al. o.UCsivCaig8 gM tC6iyPC8C M
Daniel Frey/Tartan Darkroom Manager
i l.sr al. b.81. sCha b6irCu ag 76gFga. al.i6 
C8svCaig8Cs F..ai8U9 ag 4. l.sr agFg66gI Ca 7 7F i8 Sklbo 12. n..8 l.6. C6. THnn hg7lgFg6. 
E AUUC69 lihag6u C8r I6iai8U yP8ig6 R6gu N.8SgIiav9 C8r dbf hg7lgFg6. fs.pC N6.88C8c
By JESSE NICE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
& JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Having a face everyone recognizes can be a good 
thing, unless its a case of mistaken identity.
Senior music major Nick Lewis has been 
harrassed since a Campus Police Crime Alert con
cerning a burglary suspect was posted in CFA. The 
description given of the suspect was vaguely simi
lar to Lewis physical characteristics.
Lewis is African-American, 20 years old, and 
5'10" tall. The Crime Alert sought a black male, of 
similar height, approximately 33 years old.
We dont put a description on the Crime Alerts 
unless we have a very specific one, said Campus 
Police Chief James LaPaglia. I feel bad for the 
student. It has to be very disturbing for him, 
having been here for four years.
I guess the Crime Alert went out on January
11, said Lewis. The harrassment began on the 
second or third week of classes.
I started to feel really awkward, he said. I 
mean, everyone thinks that people are staring at
them, but people were staring at me, and pointing 
fingers.
Finally, Lewis said, a couple of weeks ago, two 
people grabbed him with the intention of holding 
him until Campus Police arrived.
I said, Get the hell off of me,  Lewis said.  T 
work for the [Music] Department, for Christs sake. 
I guess if I had been in my right mind, I would have 
beat the crap out of him.
We dont even allow security guards to physi
cally detain suspects, said LaPaglia. If they see 
someone they are instructed to call a police officer.
It is really the first time anyone has attempted 
to physically detain a person since we started the 
crime alerts seven years ago, he said. When a 
student or faculty member grabs someone, they 
are putting themselves in criminal and civil liabil
ity.
The suspect, who has since been arrested, was 
able to secure keys to several of the practice rooms 
in CFA over the winter break. He was spotted 
several times in CFA coming out of a practice room 
(without shoes) by people, but they did not say 
anything because they didnt want to offend him.
Please see HARRASSMENT, page 5
Student harrassed 
after Alert posted
CERT warns of security threat
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Its time to change your An
drew password.
The Computer Emergency Re
sponse Team (CERT) at the 
Universitys Software Engineer
ing Institute (SEI) has issued an 
advisory to Internet system ad
ministrators across the country, 
asking them to update their secu
rity protocols and to advise their 
users to change their passwords.
The Internet is the federally 
funded global communications 
network that connects tens of 
thousands of universities, corpo
rations, and government agen
cies. Fifteen million people use 
the Internet world-wide. The 
CERT advisory says that unau
thorized users are gaining access 
to thousands of computers when
users access their accounts re
motely through file-transfer pro
tocol (FTP) sites, telnetting, or 
remote login (rlogin).
The intruders set up Trojan 
horse programs which intercept 
users computer IDs and pass
words, and then use these to break 
into their accounts. When intrud
ers get the IDs and passwords, 
they have access to the users 
files and the network their ac
count is on.
Lets say youre a graduate stu
dent at a conference in Califor
nia, and you log-on to the Internet 
to get to your account at CMU to 
read your email, said Terry 
McGillien, communication direc
tor for SEI. You become a re
mote user. You use either FTP, 
rlogin, or telnet. It then goes to a 
network service provider and that 
routes it to your computer. The
only thing that needs to happen 
is for it to go through the service 
provider.
Its not just your email that 
they have access to, he said. Its 
every file in your account. A lot of 
people communicate about their 
work over the net/  he said, and 
compromised security could have 
severe ramifications for business 
and government.
The CERT advisory provides a 
short-term work-around as well 
as recommendations for long
term solutions, like adopting 
stonger authentication proce
dures for users. The full advi
sory, running 12 pages of text, is 
available for anonymous FTP 
from info.CERT.org. The advisory 
does not cover people who dial-up 
a computer via a modem, only 
those who connect to computers 
remotely via the Internet.
GSO gets out the vote...Elections create furor
By FRANK MICHELS
1 Tartan Personnel Manager
Student Senate elections will be held 
: again today, tomorrow, and Wednes3 day from 9 am to 5 pm at the Fence or 
j the Kiltie Court if the weather is bad.
Last semesters elections were invali- dated by the Senate Elections Board 
because a list of write-in candidates 
was posted at the ballot box. The 
f Graduate Student Organization 
(GSO) is again encouraging graduate 
students to vote for graduate write-in 
candidates during the election.
TimMallo, president of GSO, postedI
! a list of candidates to assocs.student| senate and GSO bulletin boards with 
j a combined platform. The list of canI didates includes seven students who 
\ submitted petitions, of which two are 
undergraduates, and 12 write-in can
didates in support of the common plati- foim, in all colleges except CFA andI IIM-GSO is not endorsing any candi
dates, saidMallo. As a group, we did 
not receive the candidates platforms
 in time to make that decision. GSO is 
: encouraging all students, not just 
graduate students, to vote in the elec
tions.
It has been a long-term goal of 
GSO, and... many graduate students 
to increase the percentage of the Ac
tivities Fee that is to be allocated by 
i GSO, the platform says. Addition
ally, many graduate students, in par
ticular GSO reps [representatives], 
have voiced the opinion that GSO 
should be the official governing body 
; of graduate students.
According to the petition, graduate
students plan to run again because of 
their dissatisfaction with the Presi
dential Committee to Reform Student 
Government (PCRSG), an ad-hoc com
mittee created November 16,1993, by 
Student Government President Dave 
Wolpert to design a restructured bi
cameral student government.
Lara Wolfson, a graduate student in 
statistics and former president of GSO, 
said that PCRSG had a timeline, and 
graduate students thought that some
thing was going to get done. The pre
sentation of the Senate resolution to 
create a new student government was 
to be on November 30 and discussion 
was to take place in the first two Sen
ate meetings in January. So far, no 
such resolution has been made.
We [graduate students] didnt feel 
the need to coordinate an effort for 
elections, because we had faith in the 
committee, said Wolfson. But when 
we all came back [from winter break], 
it seemed that nobody was interested 
anymore.
Wolpert said that this Tuesday, some 
of the undergraduates of PCRSG will 
recommend to Student Senate a list of 
proposed amendments to the Bylaws 
of the Student Body. According to 
Wolpert, Senates Executive Commit
tee will decide what amendments are 
worth proposing to Senate.
Greg Haverkamp, a senior IM ma
jor, was one of the undergraduates 
who drafted the amendments. 
Haverkamp said that some amend
ments included amending the section 
on the Activities Fee, enhancing the 
roles of the President and Treasurer, 
and changing the frequency of Senate 
Please see ELECTIONS, page 5
WRCTs future still cloudy
Lack of suitable space leads to uncertainty
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan Staffwriter
CMUs radio station, WRCT, still does 
not have anywhere to relocate to when 
Skibo Hall is demolished to make way 
for the new University Center. The: 
stations special needs have disqualified * 
a number of potential locations, leaving 
WBCT with no destination, yet.
The station has many needs in terms 
of space, power, and conditions. Theyre 
probably the most complicated group to 
move, said Kevin Lamb, vice president 
for Planning and Budget. They have a 
lot of equipment that gives off heat. In 
an enclosed space this equipment makes 
rooms hot, Lamb said, making ventila
tion and air conditioning necessary.
There is also a need for silence. If 
WRCT is near a loud office, the sound 
could disrupt their programming. They 
also need a lot of space to house their 
large CD and record library. H V Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
The Space Allocation Board has WRCTs current studio will be a thing of the past when Sklbo is demolished, 
handed in their recommendations to ". ;
DeanofStudentAffairsMichaelMurphy, mann,{a graduate student and general 
with the names of student organizations manager at WRCT, said, Weve been 
that requested space in the former Na- working on it for three years straight. 
val Reserve Center. WRCT did not re- He said that there were several possiquest space in the Naval Center, but bilities, either the former warehouse for 
they did ask the the board look for some- the Appliance Store chain near Central 
thing that could accommodate them. Receiving in East Liberty, or the PubThe station did not ask to relocate to lishing and Printing Building. Much of 
the Navy building, because there was no University Printing and Publications 
space in there that would suit them. The operations will be moving from its locaonly room that was close to what is tion behind the Navy building to the 
required is in the basement; it was 1000 East Liberty warehouse, but the space 
feet too small, had water leaks, there cannot be used by WRCT because it will 
was no ventilation system, and install- not be available in time. 
ingonewouldcostfrom$l,000to$2,000. According to Sara Sterling, a sophoThe staff at WRCT have been trying to more English student and DJ at the 
relocate for a long time. Steve Auter- station, WQED has also been thought of
as a potential location.
The former Operations room in Cyert 
Hall was thought to be the perfect spot, 
but due to poor ventilation and glycol 
leaks, it was dropped.
Glycol is a toxic chemical used for 
cooling. The leaks made the space not 
fit for human occupation, said 
Autermann.
Other things at the station are looking 
better. Last December, WRCT installed 
and activated a new transmitter. The 
new transmitter, operating at 750 watts, 
was given final approval by the FCC and 
allows the station to transmit its signal 
to most of Pittsburgh as well as eastern 
of Allegheny County.
Inside
Classifieds
Comics.....
Diversions 
Features ...
Forum......
Sports......
Calendar... 
Vox Populi
 Your complete guide to the Stu
dent Senate ballot appears this 
week.
See page 3
 One man tells of his battle 
against the dreaded car phone.
See page L2
 The NRA promotes violence, 
not sportsmanship.
 The 
haunted by
.. L2
.. L4  Eating disorders can ruin 
.. L9 someones life.
.. LI See page LI
...6
....9  Whatever happened to the ideL12 alism of the 60s?
LI 2 See page 7
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo COrEditor
The indoor track team was on 
top of Its game at Robert Morris 
College. For more information, 
please see our story In Sports,

---------------------------------------------------

LRl. RC6aC8 K dC68.Ui. t.ssg8 K O b.46PC6u DWW
Health care plan finds challengers
WASHINGTON, February 4 (DJ)
 This has not been a good week for 
President Bill Clintons health care 
reform plan.
On Monday, the nations governors 
issued a unanimous biparti sancallfor 
Congress to pass a health reform bill 
this year, but they stopped short of 
endorsing the Presidents plan despite 
Clintons heavy lobbying.
On Wednesday, the Business 
Roundtable, a group of some of the 
nations most influential business ex
ecutives, shunned the Clinton plan 
due to its heavy focus on government 
regulation.
Instead, the group voted to support 
a plan co-sponsored by Rep. Jim Coo
per, (D-Tenn.), and Sen. John Breaux, 
(D-La.), as a startingpointfor health 
reform.
And yesterday, the U.S. Chamber 
of Commerce blasted the Clinton plan.
Robert E. Patricelli, a health care 
executive who chairs the Chambers 
Health and Employee Benefits Com
mittee, said the Chamber disliked the
plans high employer premium con
tributions, rich benefits, and counter
productive regulation and new federal 
and health alliance bureaucracy.
All the fuss over the Clinton plan 
has brought a bounty of attention to 
Cooper, who advocates tax incentives 
to help individuals buy health insur
ance. Coopers bill looks to market 
forces to hold down medical prices.
While the Clinton bill relies on mar
ket forces as well, the plan also in
cludes limits on insurance premiums 
should market forces fail to keep costs 
low.
But groups that embrace Coopers 
approach dislike some of its elements, 
such as the plans limit on an 
employers tax-deductability of health 
care costs.
The employer mandate provision of 
the Clinton plan was a top target duringthe weeks congressional hearings. 
Making employers pay for employees 
health coverage would cut existing 
jobs and stall the creation of new ones, 
witnesses said.
Clintons, health care plans differ
WASHINGTON, February 4 (DJ)
 Heres how the two bills compare 
on the major issues:
 Coverage: The Clinton bill would 
guarantee health coverage for all 
Americans. The Cooper bill wouldnt.
Under the White House plan, all 
employers would be required to pay, 
on behalf of each full-time worker, at 
least 80 percent of the cost of the 
average price of a federally defined 
health-benefits package. Poor and un
employed people would get govern
ment subsidies to pay for coverage.
The Cooper bill would require all 
employers to offer their employees a 
health plan, but it wouldnt require 
them to pay for it. It would provide 
subsidies to help low-income people 
buy health insurance.
?Benefits: The Clinton bill would 
establish a national benefits package 
for every Americanincluding cover
age for hospitalization, physician vis
its, prescription drugs, and a range of 
preventive services like childhood im
munizations.
The Cooper bill also provides for a 
standard benefits package, but the 
detail s would be determ ined later by a
federal commission and would be sub
ject to congressional apprdval/Guidelines in the Cooper legislation say the 
package would have to cover preven
tive care, prescriptiondrugs, andmedically appropriate services and proce
dures. Cooper said tin's week he is 
willing to specify an interim benefits 
package in the bill.
 Purchasing Pools: Both plans 
would unite businesses and consum
ers in insurance-buying pools. The 
pools would collect premiums from 
individuals and businesses to pay for 
various plans providing the standard 
benefits package. Individuals then 
would select from among the plans. 
The idea behind the pools is to spread 
insurance risk and increase the nego
tiating power of consumers in the 
health-care market.
But there are big differences be
tween the Clinton and the Cooper 
plans. The Clinton bill would require 
all employers with fewer than 5,000 
workers to join the health alliances 
in their regions. The Cooper bill would 
set up regional, nonprofit, state-chartered liealth-plan purchasing coop
eratives.
Bomb kills 66 in Sarajevo, Bosnia
Landing in a crowd of shoppers, a 
mortar shell killed 66 in Sarajevo, Bosnia 
Herzegovnia and wounded nearly200 at 
about noon on Saturday.
Ambulances arrived on the scene just 
minutes after the shell struck. As the 
dead lay beneath tables, wounded were 
rushed to the hospital.
One eyewitness reportedly said that 
some people were literally tom apart. 
Heads and limbs were ripped off bodies.
President Bill Clinton sent U.S. trans
port planes to Sarajevo in order to evacu
ate the wounded. Denouncing the slaugh
ter, Clinton asked for the United Na
tions to urgently investigate the mat
ter. He did not hint at the use of air 
strikes in the near future, but said, We 
rule nothing out.
U.N. Secreatary-General Boutros 
Boutros-Ghali also condemend the at
tack as well as called for an immediate 
investigation.
No proof has yet been offered as to 
from where or whom the attack came. 
President Alija Izetbegovics spokesman, 
Kemal Muftic, said the 120mm mortar 
shell was fired from a Serb-held position 
north of Sarajevo. Radovan Karadzic, 
the Bosnian Serb leader, claims that the 
government soldiers fired on their own 
people in hopes of persuading NATO to 
go ahead with the threatened air strikes 
on Serb positions.
Thank youBoutros-Ghali! Thankyou 
Clinton! cried one man who feels that 
all the world killed these people.
Perry receives Senates okay
WASHINGTON, February 3 (DJ)  
Acting with unusual speed, the Senate 
confirmed William Perry as defense sec
retary today, turning over command of 
the Pentagon to a scholar, businessman 
and expert on high-tech weapons. The 
97-0 vote came slightly more than a 
week after President Bill Clinton named 
Perry, until now the No. 2 man at the 
Pentagon, to replace Les Aspin.
He does have the vision we need, 
said Sen. Carl Levin, (D-Mich.), a mem
ber of the Senate Armed Services Com
mittee. He is totally committed to the 
security of this country.
Committee colleague John Warner, 
(R-Va.), predicted Perry would rank 
among the finest of the 19 people to 
hold the job since its creation after World 
War II.
Reno fights off Sessions attack
WASHINGTON, February 3 (DJ)  
Attorney General Janet Reno disputed a
claim by former FBI Director William 
Sessions that the bureau was kept out of 
the investigation of deputy White House 
counsel Vincent Fosters death.
I got the FBI as involved as they 
thought was necessary, Reno told her 
weekly news conference when asked 
about a New York Post report of Ses
sions claim. I dont know what hes 
talking about.
The Justice Department put the U.S. 
Park Police in charge of the investigati
on into Fosters apparent suicide. Fosters 
body was found in a park near the 
Potomac River on July 20 of an appar
ently self-inflicted gunshot.
Sessions had been fired by President 
Bill Clinton the day before Fosters death. 
A handwritten statement Sessions gave 
to the newspaper yesterday said the 
decision about the investigative role of 
the FBI in the Foster death was ... com
promised from the beginning. Sessions 
said there had been a long-standing 
power struggle within the FBI and the 
Department of Justice. He said Foster 
was deeply involved in [the] relation
ships and events involving the two.
One of those events included FBI ac
tions during a controversy over the White 
House travel office. When Fosters body 
was discovered, the White House and 
Justice Department were clearly in a 
politically awkward position with the 
FBI Travelgate investigation in July 
1993, Sessions wrote the Post.
U.S., Japanese relations poor
NEW YORK, February 4 (DJ)  The 
gulf that the U.S. and Japan have to 
bridge to get a framework accord looks 
to remain wide despite the reiteration of 
the issue on the agenda for next week.
A senior official of Japans finance 
ministry said the U.S. remains far apart 
on what should be covered by objective 
criteria. The official, who spoke on con
dition on anonymity, stressed that such 
criteria are for use only as a follow-up to 
the talks rather than the basis of the 
agreement.
The emphasis by U.S. trade represen
tative Mickey Kantor on the pledge by 
Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa and involvement by Japans dep
uty prime minister, who heads one of the 
other big parties in Japans ruling coali
tion, suggests the importance of politi
cal momentum to override any gap.
And Japans trade chief, Hiroshi 
Kumagai, head of the Ministry of Inter
national Trade and Industry, said ear
lier today that he would go to the U.S. if 
necessary to conclude the talks success
fully  although he believed that the 
meetings by aides would suffice.
But political wrangling over Japans 
tax policy, which has forced the govern
ment to delay at least into early next
week finalizing any new fiscal 
to spur the economy, has preoccupj^j 
policy makers in Tokyo. And that le;
another key plank of the trade talks to 
be nailed down by Tokyo. The Japane;: 
finance ministry official said economy 
stimulus isnt for negotiation with thj 
U.S., which has pressed Japan for a cut 
in income taxes.
Kantor reiterated that the framework 
calls for Japan to produce stimulus to 
demand for imports, and he 
that the stimulus needs finalizing fo 
Tokyo in time for the summit betw 
Hosokawa and President Bill Clinton in 
a week, a deadline Hosokawa wants to 
meet. In answer to a question 
whether the U.S. wanted to see Japans 
stimulus package in time for the sun;, 
mit, Kantor told Dow Jones that stimu, 
lus is part of the framework.
TriStar gets sued 
over Philadelphia
NEW YORK, February 1 (DJ)Tin 
estate and family of Geoffrey Bowen 
has begun legal action against TriStaj 
Pictures Inc., Hollywood producer Scott 
Rudin, and the creators of the movi; 
Philadelphia, maintaining that the file 
was substantially based on inform; 
tion provided by the plaintiffs under a 
agreement for acknowledgment and compensation that was allegedly not 
ored.
In a press release, the law firm cl 
Balsam & Felber, attorneys for the Bow
ers estate, said plaintiffs are 
damages of no less than 10 million 
lars in their legal action, filed in U.S.J] 
District Court for the Southern Distrid 
of New York.
The attorneys said plaintiffs 
that after providing defendants with 
substantial confidential, propriety 
and detailed information not otherwise 
readily accessible, defendants accepted 
and used this material for their own 
commercial advantage without acknowl
edgment and compensation as prom
ised.
It is further alleged that such use ol 
Bowers story without acknowledgement 
or compensation was wholly unauthorized and constitutes a breach of con
tract, misappropriation of confidential 
and proprietary information, a violation 
of federal law [which prohibits false des
ignation of origin and deceptive trad: 
practices] and unjust enrichment, the 
attorneys said.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones
Layout by 
Eric J. SaLzman
HE/LTH FITK>SS
? LP3
Wednesday, February 16
10am - 4pm 
Skibo Ballroom
Demonstrations
 Fitness Boxing
 Slide Aerobics
 Modern Dance
 Competitive Ballroom Dancing
Weight Loss & Wellness Info
Jenny Craig Representative
Diabetes Testing 
Electrocardiograms 
Blood Pressure Testing 
Grip Strength Testing 
Cholesterol Testing 
Body Fat Testing 
Vision Testing 
Chiropractic Screening
Sponsored by Health Awareness, Doctors of Carnegie & Athletics

---------------------------------------------------

Rl. RC6aC8 K dC68.Ui. t.ssg8 K O b.46PC6u DWWw
Senate candidates tell goals, qualifications
Benjamin Wang
Freshman, CIT general 
Age: 18
Bom: Canton, Ohio
I am trying to improve the com
munity spirit on campus by work
ing to increase the attendance at 
athletic events.
If .re-elected, I will continue to 
work on this project and will find 
other ways to improve our Univer sity.Jason Togyer/Tartan News Editorohn Calhoon
First year, GSIA 
Age: 29
Bom: Chicago, Illinois
Im originally from Chicago, Im 29, and a first year at GSIA. My 
indergraduate degree is in electrical engineering from Cornell in 
. Ive been in the Air Force for the past six-and-a-half years 
lying jets.
Since Ive been here, Ive been busy working with the I Have a 
)ream program and tutoring at Fort Pitt Elementary. Im also 
nvolvedin a couple organizations at GSIA. I viewmy seat on Senate 
is an opportunity to represent the interests of my classmates in 
3SIA and to enhance my view of CMU.
mud). This is the type of campus event that will bring the CMU 
community together.
In order to promote attendance of more traditional sports, such as 
Tartan basketball (which is an excellent way to spend ones evening), 
the University should give out free monster truck tickets to the first 
20 students to arrive at each game.
I believe that I am highly qualified to represent the School of 
Computer Science and the entire campus community. I have at
tended 13 straight National Tractor-Pull Championships and once 
changed the plugs and oil on GraveDigger. In addition, I am the 
WRCT Sports Monster Truck Analyst. To top this off, I was my ninth 
grade homeroom President and I drink Iron City beer exclusively. As 
President of the Eastern Chapter of the Monster Truck Coalition, I 
am highly qualified to serve on any governmental body. Vote James 
Bigfoot Landay and the other MTC candidates for Senate!
Bridgette Landers
Sophomore, Math/CS
I would like to work with my running mate, James Landay, on 
continuing his efforts to enhance communication with the SCS 
constituents and the general student body. I feel that publicizing 
Senate proceedings and actively pursuing the opinions of the con
stituency is a Senators most important job. I wouldlike to encourage 
the development of activities which will enhance the quality of life 
for the student body. I feel that there are also many pre-existing 
activities which could be expanded, re-packaged, or better publi
cized. Things like time management or stress management semi
nars, for example, should be widely available to our haggard stu
dents. I would like to see a more empowered student body that has 
opinions on how they would like to see the world changed and has the 
ability to influence those changes. I think that drumming up more 
support for programs such as those created by University Outreach 
would be a good starting place in this area. I have a lot of ideas and 
energy and am not only willing to listen to the students, but I am 
determined to provoke opinions out of them, if necessary, in order to
Kami White
Sophomore, H&SS general 
Age: 19
Bom: Davenport, Iowa
do the job properly.
I originally joined Senate as a 
member at large ... Ive been filling RpQirinrirl O^OOHROr 
a vacancy since last year.
First year, GSIA
Bom: Tipperary, Republic of Ireland
Lisa Kim
I wasnt placed into a committee 
[right away]. Basically, until youre 
appointed to a committee you dont 
really have a focus; once youre on a 
committee, there are certain issues 
that you get to deal with.
Sophomore, Graphic Design 
Age: 19
Bom: Lincoln Park, MI
Im on Senates PR committee. 
Ive been helping with that. We got 
a lot of flak for the last election, 
because it wasnt publicized as much 
as people said it should have been, 
but [we didnt get enough credit] for 
everything we did do.We publicize 
what seats are open and when petiDaniel Frey/Tartan Darkroom Manager tions are due ^ 0fc0ursei publi; cizing Senate meetings is very important. The [issue of] the plus 
and minus grading system is coming up soon, so well be asking 
people what they think about that. It sounds cliched, but I want to 
I serve my constituents. I know people, at least in my department, 
that dont even know Im a senator... I want to get Senate more out 
in the public eye. Hopefully, well get more respect some day.
I also want people to know that people in my college can add!
James Landay
SCS Doctoral Student 
Age: 26
Bom: Santa Monica, CA
My name is James Bigfoot 
Landay and I am one of the Monster 
Truck Coalition candidates to rep
resent the School of Computer Sci
ence in Student Senate.
The Monster Truck Coalition 
(MTC) supports increasing the avail
ability of parking spaces for moncourtesy of James Landay ster trucks on the CMU campus, 
'he current parking situation is inadequate as the spaces are way 
too small. Special monster truck parking should be provided on the 
Cut and the Mall. In addition, the lack of school spirit on the CMU 
campus is disheartening. In order to rectify this situation, the MTC 
supports having tractor pulls in Gesling Stadium (of course we also 
idvocate tearing up the artificial turf and installing real grass and
If re-elected to Senate, I intend to fairly and objectively represent 
GSIA students and their interests at the Student Senate level, to 
further address the Student Activities Fee distribution, which I 
believe to be inequitable and biased against graduate students as it 
is currently administered. I will also work towards making Student 
Senate a more effective legislative body and to improve the percep
tion of Student Senate on campus by improving the quality and 
timeliness of decision making.
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
I was placed on the Academic Affairs committee in October, and 
one of the things that came up, in November, was registration. A lot 
of students were upset at the fact that considering how equipped 
CMU is with computers, its so difficult to register  Why cant we 
do something with the computers?
Sol talked to a few academic advisors in H&SS, and the then-head *  . . 11) -J
of the Registrars Office, Dick Rainsberger... he told me that starting |VI ICil3l r\OSS0RCi6r 
at the first of this year, they would be starting a committee to look 
into that.
Another thing thats going to come out of the committee is a 
resolution on plus/minus grading for the students to look at...
What Id like to see is that some of these things that have been 
proposed get done. Even when I talked to Rainsberger in November, 
he said that theyd have something by the first of next year, I was a 
little upset about that. I mean, what are we supposed to do until 
then? Nothing? Id like to see some of these proposals get accom
plished.
When we got back the surveys [from students, concerning registra
tion], most of them said that this [system] is ridiculous, and having 
gone through registration, I agree....
Ive had a lot of people come to 
me and say that the Career Cen
ter doesnt do a lot for H&SS. 
People have looked into getting 
summer internships and things 
like that, and most of them seem 
to be designed for CIT and MCS. 
Hopefully, something can be done 
about that.
So many things get formed and 
talked about, but Id like to see 
something actually get done.
When I first started here, the 
big joke was the apathy on cam
pus ... Personally, to me, just 
being able to vote is the most 
important thinganything from 
Senate to President. I dont see 
why people just take it so lightly. 
That bothers me.
Being a freshman, and seeing 
that people just didnt seem to 
care, was a big change from what 
Ive was used to.
GSIA, Masters Student
Student Senate needs to give careful, balanced, and detailed 
attention to the issues before it. It must fairly represent all the 
diverse students at CMU. Student Senate is responsible for using its 
resources and abilities to enhance the educational experience while 
we are all here. Senate is also a learning experience where students 
can practice rhetoric, policy, and procedures. Through it, students 
gain wider exposure to diverse viewpoints and begin to see how those 
viewpoints can be integrated under the American political ideal.
[Editors note: CIT grad student Miland Kandlikar and MCS 
freshman Ron Yang did not submit platforms.]
FINANCIAL MARKETS 
COMMODITI ES 
NEWS
Were Looking for Tomorrows Innovators
*
We live in the shadow of a giant cookie-cutter that is trying to clone 
us, to recreate us in the image of a world that has lost sight of 
Truth.What does it mean to be a student, an engineer, an artist, a 
business person, or a parent made in Gods image instead of in the 
world's image?
Jubilee 1994 is a conference designed to bring college 
students together with peers and professionals for the 
express purpose of exploring the implications of living 
out a Christ-centered life. How can we shatter the culture s dis
torted cookie-cutter image and live, work and play as the people 
God created us to be?
Come see how at Jubilee '94. February 25-27 at the Hilton 
Hotel. For information and registration contact Earl at 
862-2118.
Buying or selling? The best way to reach 
Carnegie Mellon is through an ad inTHE TARTAN
THE FIRM
Bloomberg L.P., a leading financial information firm, 
providing sophisticated data and analysis to investment profes
sionals, and major companies around the world.
THE POSmON
Software Developers/Financial Analysts/System Programmers 
for our entry-level training program in New York City and 
Princeton, NJ.
REQUIREMENTS
Technically oriented, BS or MS in finance, economics, computer 
science, engineering and/or mathematics background, at 
least two semesters or equivalent programming coursework and 
knowledge of C, Pascal, Fortran or similar language.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
Speak to your career center representative for our videotape 
and additional written materials.
INTERESTED?Please send a cover letter and resume to Stacey Marx 
at Bloomberg L.P, Software Development Recruiting, 
499 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10022 by March 4th. 
Please -indicate preference between tentative interview dates 
of March 21 or 30 in New York.
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 1906
For more information, call 268-2111.

---------------------------------------------------

Introducing Macintosh TV.
Jam.Packed
Its a computer.
The Apple MacintoshTV is packed with all the 
computing power you need to crank out papers, create 
graphics, and crunch numberseverything to help you 
succeed in college. It also comes loaded with six 
software programs to get you up and running right 
away. And thats just for starters.
Its a television.
Macintosh TV is also a cable-ready color television. 
Just hook up an antenna or cable to watch your favorite 
shows. You can also connect your VCR, camcorder, or 
video game player. Whats more, it comes with a handy 
remote control for the TV and the audio CD player.
Did we say CD player?
Its a CD player.
This one not only plays audio CDs in stereo, it also 
lets you access the tons of data stored on CD-ROM discs. 
And place photos stored on Kodak Photo CDs into your 
reports. Macintosh TV even includes seven CDs to 
launch you into the world of multimedia.
Why not come by and check out Macintosh TV today? 
Its maximum power, requiring minimum space.
For more information visit the
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store or call 268-2636
 1993 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Kodak and Photo CD are trademarks of Eastman Kodak Company. Mention of non-Apple products is for informational purposes only, and constitutes neither an endorsement nor 
a recommendation. Apple assumes no responsibility with regard to the selection, performance, or use of these products. All understandings, agreements, or warranties, if any, take place directly between the vendors and the prospective users.
VoteVoteVote
<D
0>
CD
9JOA
CD
CD

---------------------------------------------------

Rl. RC6aC8 K dC68.Ui. t.ssg8 K O b.46PC6u DWW0
ELECTIONS, from page 1
meetings.
Wolpert said that PCRSG has two 
purposes: to make Senate a more effi
cient governing body, and to develop a 
better relationship with GSO. Last year, 
we were heading for a bicameral legisla
te, said Wolpert. But after certain 
,vents unfolded, ... were all in agree
ment that were not enthusiastic about 
splitting off.
"The best solution is to restructure 
Senate with both graduates and underaates to take effect in the fall se
mester, and see how it works, Wolpert 
Were going to have a Senate thats 
effective and efficient.
If the undergraduate Senate im
proves, graduate students may want to 
lake part in it, said Wolpert. It is 
better to have one governing body. 
Wolfson said that graduate students 
disagree with Wolpert. Wolpert had 
decided that the graduate furor had died 
down, and that the conviction of an effitient Senate would entice graduates,
lections create furor
said Wolfson. Ninety percent of gradu
ates spend 100 percent of their time in 
their department. Some departments 
want more money. Wolpert said, GSO 
should get more, and now he says, No, 
not anymore. 
GSO made their demands very clear, 
said Wolpert. They want $40,000 more, 
and they want to be the official body for 
graduate students.... Im not saying we 
are rejecting GSO. I feel we should re
structure Student Senate first. 
Graduate students have a place in 
the current student government, said 
Haverkamp. After listening to their 
complaints, this would make Senate a 
little more attractive. He said that GSO 
wants nothing but their ideas for chang
ing student government.
Wolfson said, I beneve in the idea of 
reforming GSO, but I dont think itll 
happen with Student Senate. So its time 
to equalize the playing field.
Wolfson said she sent email to inter
ested graduate students and encour
aged them to run for Senate.
Man mistaken for Alert suspect
HARRASSMENT, from page 1
The items stolen were usually small 
amounts of food or cash. The suspect 
was stopped by Campus Police once, 
but they could not find anyone to iden
tify him, so he was released. ----------
He apparently would go 
into one of the practice 
rooms and lock himself in 
and sleep there.
The individual was appre
hended while sleeping in 
Scaife Hall. He was charged 
with theft and simple pos
session, as he had a small 
amount of what the police
believed to be marijuana at ----------
the time. 
, This arrest will clear close to 20 
thefts between CMU and Pitt. We 
believe that he may be a homeless 
person, said LaPaglia.
I was so appalled by the fact that 
this actually happened to me, said
Lewis. Theres a problem on this cam- [the Carnegie Mellon Action Program] 
pus. What if I had been the robber, and just isnt doing it.
I had a gun? I would have shot [the Theres a problem, and I just cant 
assailant]. put my finger on it, he said. Ive been
If people would call us when they see naive about whats been going on. Just
------------------------------------------------------------------- being in CFA, Im one of four
or five black people in the 
whole department.
Lewis said that he used to 
raise money for the Univer
sity. The people, that gradu
ate from CMU are the most 
bitter people, he said. I see 
why, now.
We dont ever want to go to 
the extreme where people call 
because of the way that some
one looks, said LaPaglia. 
something suspicious we could really People need to look at the activity and 
reduce crime on campus, said LaPaglia. not the persons appearance.
This campus, I just really dont un- I wish I could say that everythings 
derstand it. All the black people just hunkey-dorey on this campus, but racongregate together, Lewis said, cial relations are just not up to par, 
Theres something wrong, and CMAP said Lewis.
"The people that graduate 
from CMU are the most bitter 
people. I see why, now. 
 Nick Lewis, 
senior, music
DoD investigation drags onCarnegie Mellon in Brief
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Carnegie Mellon University has turned over 
between 15 and 20 cartons Of documents to the 
Department of Defense (DoD) Inspector Generals 
(IG) office. The documents were turned over on 
December 13. -
However, the DoD IG has still not told the 
University what the offices investigation is cen
tering on. There has been some communication 
(between the University legal counsel [Walter 
DeForest] and the investigators, said Provost 
Paul Christiano.
Christiano said that the University continues to 
work with outside auditors to evaluate its account
ing procedures. We had asked them to come in 
and help us review our accounts and our own 
processes, he said. For the time being, theyre
about finished. We think that we know what we 
have regarding the status of our research accounts 
and various processes.
In terms of the IGs office, we have been supply
ing them with a substantial amount of informa
tion, he said, but not anywhere near the docu
mentation that they asked for in their subpeona. 
The mood of faculty and the research and sup
port staffs have been completely forthcoming. When 
there might have been questions on anything, they 
have been completely forthcoming. Christiano 
said that many people are still bewildered. Its 
not something that people worry about daily, nor 
should they, he said. But its one of those things 
that just sort of hangs over the place.
I think that this whole thing could be resolved if 
they would just tell us what they need, Christiano 
said. But were intent on not letting this become a 
big hand-wringing exercise.
Naval Reserve Center acquired; renovations already under way
The University has completed its $2.4 million 
purchase of the former Naval Reserve Center on 
Forbes Avenue. Student organizations are sched
uled to begin moving in at the end of the semester 
when Skibo Hall is demolished to make way for the 
new University Center.
Kevin Lamb, vice president for Planning and 
Budget, said the deal was closed last Wednesday, 
and that renovations began immediately. At long 
last well be able to start, he said.
The Navy has been removing asbestos from the 
building. In addition, lead pellets had to be re
moved from the firing range in the garage behind 
the building.
The contractors were anxious to begin work, 
said Lamb. Right now, there are two electrical 
crews in there.
Most of the renovations will be to bring the 
building up to Americans with Disabilities Act 
(ADA) standards. Were hoping that within 60 
days, the critical mass of renovation will be done, 
said Lamb. There are some very minor ADA is
sues to be resolved.
For example, a new wheelchair accessible en
trance will be constructed at the rear on the build
ing on the first floor. In addition, restrooms have 
to be upgraded.
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYER
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT 
SENATE _
Meeting of 1 February 1994
Roll was taken at 7 pm. Meet
ing was called to order at 7:10.
Senators Present: Albert
!CFA), Baron (GSIA), Carter 
'CIT), Cohen (SCS), DeMasi 
MCS), Frey (CFA), Gach (CFA), 
Jannon (MCS), Goldman 
H&SS), Holzman (CIT), Kim 
1 (CFA), Kwon (CIT), Landay 
(SCS), Makhuijee (CIT), Motley 
KIT), Sawyer-Villers (CIT), 
Singh (CFA), Trexel (IM), Turks 
(Heinz), Wallhausen (H&SS), 
Wang (CIT), White (H&SS).
I Senators Absent: Calhoon
(GSIA), Gonzalez (MCS), Grant 
Heinz), OConnor (GSIA).
j Approval of the Minutes: The 
year was mistakenly written as 
1993 last week.
Audience Participation: 
None.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Matt Adler): DH2210 Mov
ies this week are: Thursday, 8 
1 !2\ Friday, Carlitos Way, Sun
day, Tommy. We need to fill all of 
our positions for 1994-5. Appli
cations will be available at the 
Skibo Info Desk.
AB Coffeehouse had a Night of 
Comedy January 29; it was a great 
success. AB Concerts bought 100 
tickets for the Mighty Bosstones 
at Metro-pol; bus service will be 
provided.
GSO (Tim Mallo): None.
Greek Council (Demian John
ston): IFC is discussing a BYOB 
policy on the Quad. Greek Sing is 
coming up in the spring.
Faculty Senate (Dean Mur
phy): There will be a USAC meet
ing Thursday to discuss the 
graduate student quality of life 
survey.
Student Affairs (Pat Hamed): 
Ifyouare graduatingin May1995, 
apply for the Fifth Year Scholar 
Program. Career Week will be
February 5-11. Orientation 
Counselor applications are avail
able now.
SDC (Ben Wang): The DH2210 
Movie on Saturday is Real Ge
nius at 6,8,10 pm, and midnight. 
There will be a blood drive Tues
day and Wednesday of next week.
President (Dave Wolpert): 
None.
Treasurer (Declan McCullagh): None.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Dawn 
Wallhausen): None.
Campus Affairs (Cheryl 
Gach): None.
Funding and Recognition
(Crystal Trexel): F&R has been 
approached by the Gun Club and 
the First Church of Christ Abor
tionists for recognition.
Many clubs requested special 
allocations, including Korean 
Christian Fellowship, AB, 
Womens Center and Crew.
Health and Fitness Fair will need 
a special allocation soon. Women 
in Science will come up next week. 
Budget disks will be distributed 
February 4, and are due Febru
ary 18 to Mary Jo Rudman.
Human Resources (Moneet 
Singh): We want to put together a 
program where Senators meet 
with the administration.
Public Relations (Jim Albert): 
Thanks to everyone who came to 
Happy Hour today. Elections are 
Monday, Tuesday and Wednes
day of next week, 9 to 5 pm by the 
Fence, or in the Tartan loft if the 
weather is bad.
Chair (Burt Holzman): Agen
das are out, and its changed a 
bit. They will generally be avail
able early Monday evenings at 
the Skibo Info Desk. Security is 
conducting a survey in Wean and 
Doherty Halls. University Librar
ian Charles Lowry says that the 
data regarding library usage has 
not been completed.
New Business: Motion to
make the official form of voting at
the 1993 supplemental elections 
ballot voting.
Motion to consider immedi
ately passed by acclamation. The 
original motion passed by accla
mation. Motion to adjourn passed 
by acclamation.
Announcements:
There are vacancies in 2 IM, 2 
H&SS, 1 MCS, 1 GSIA, 2 CIT, 1 
Misc. Deadline for petitions is 
Sunday at noon.
Meeting adjourned at 7:42 pm.
Submitted by 
NAOMI BERNER
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
PITTSBURGH 
HARRISBURG PHILADELPHIA 
NEW YORK CITY
What are your ENGLISH needs?
Academic Tutoring  ESL Writing, Reading & Listening 
Speaking  ESL or Native Speakers  Pronunciation, 
Fluency, Conversation, Presentation & Delivery 
Editing  All types of Writing  dissertations, scripts,
articles, term papers
Anne Robb, Ph.d. 
521-7545
TORONTO. CANADA
^ROCHESTER. NY^SYRACUSE. NY
11, THE
THREE-MONTH BIRTH CONTROL 
SHOT, IS NOW AVAILABLE AT 
PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
Call now for a confidential appointment 
to discuss your birth control options.
Downtown 
Pittsburgh
434-8971
Sewickley
741-7626
Clairton
233-6001
PLANNED
PARENTHOOD
OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA
PARIS
SUMMER PROGRAMS 1994 
May 24-June 10 June 13-July 22 
June 19-JuIy 9  July 25-August 12 
The Qtietlity Time of Your Life
More than 50 courses from the University's curriculum, offered for credit or non-credit.French X^mgwage Immmersion programs * In Paris and Biarritz.Weekend excursions to historic regions of France: 
Normandy, Alsace, the Loire Valley, Giverny, 
e French Riviera,

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
New student center 
cheats student groups
When Skibo is razed and the 
new University Center is built, 
one would expect a an efficient 
building with a better design 
than its predecessor. However, 
there are some problems with 
the new building.
The new center will have some 
student organizations sharing 
a set of large rooms. This layout 
will compromise student secu
rity and privacy and cause a 
great many hardships for the 
groups involved.
One question to ask if this 
idea is enacted, is what will hap
pen to equiptment? Will the stu
dent groups have to share print
ers and computers as well as 
copiers and phones? Will one 
group be expected to share 
equipment that they have paid 
for and the other group doesnt 
have? If not, whats to prevent 
the other group from using the 
equipment when no one is 
around? For that matter with 
more people having access to.the 
room, it is going to be difficult to 
place responsibility on someone 
if any equipment is stolen.
As for phones, many problems 
arise. Its hard enough to get 
people to take messages and if 
groups are sharing a phone sys
tem one might be very tempted 
to not take an important mes
sage for another group. If long 
distance phone calls are made, 
it might be difficult to decide
who, in what group, made the 
call.
Each office has a locking door. 
The door protects the insides of 
their offices from theft and van
dalism. Groups that might be 
attacked more for their beliefs, 
such as CMUout, may now have 
to worry aboutsomebiggotina 
group they have to share office 
space with.
Placing all these groups in one 
large room will be similar to 
placing all of Warner Hall on 
one floor. President Mehrabian 
would end up giving directions 
to baggers wanting registatrion 
information. The Career Cen
ter would be running all of their 
copies on Student Affairs copi
ers.
Will student groups, if they 
desire, be able to maintain their 
position in the Navy Building 
after the University Center is 
built? Will they be removed and 
placed into an environment they 
would not feel comfortable in? 
These are questions these orga
nizations as well as the Univer
sity must consider. All of this 
could be solved, however, by 
designing a more confined and 
private plan.
The new University Center 
should be an oppurtunity to 
improve on Skibo. Simply tear
ing it down and building a large 
room does not seem hke a good 
plan.Tuition increases lead 
to service decreases
Most students on this campus 
would agree that as tuition in
creases, the quality of services 
provided by the University ei
ther remains unchanged or de
creases. Instead of gettingmore 
for our money, which would be 
the obvious product ofincreased 
fees, we have to make due with 
significantly less. When the sub
ject of University improvement 
arises, these are the areas re
peatedly mentioned for im
provement.
Everybody has complaints 
about Dining Services. 
Morewood Gardens closed over 
a semester ago with the prom
ise of a replacement, yet no al
ternative has been created. We 
have been told that it will re
open after Skibo is torn down, 
but so far nothing has led us to 
believe that promises are going 
to be kept. For instance, it has 
been said that the meal carts in 
Wean Hall would be updated to 
take Campus and Dine Xpress. 
So far, this hasnt been done.
Selling books back to the book
store is hardly worth the effort 
considering ho w low the redemp
tion rate is. This is even harder 
to understand when the prices 
they are sold back to the stu
dents at are outrageous. Its not 
just books either. Prices for ev
erything in the store is, for the 
most part, is outrageous.
The clusters are packed be
yond their limits. The UCC clus
ter is now being used as a train
ing center which further con
fines the amount of available 
computers. Classes claim the 
use of most Hunt Cluster com
puters, and the Baker Hall comLetters to the Editor
Reader praises 
IVCF coverage
on
Letter to the Editor
Editor:
I have been very 
pleased with your 
coverage of the re- LGttGT tO 
cent InterVarsity .. Crli+r%r Christian Fellow- ine tQIIOr 
ship (IVCF) Student Senate recognition 
debate. Your articles have been wellwritten and unbiased. I was impressed 
with your writers objectivity and pro
fessionalism on the issue. I look forward 
to reading future issues of The Tartan. 
Keep up the good work.
Brian K. Bailey 
Senior, Physics 
Former president of IVCF
Senate editorial missed points
puters are used almost exclu
sively for CSW students. 
Carnegie Mellon is known as a 
computer oriented school, and 
there arent enough for students 
to use.
The Gym is also inadequate 
for the number who demand its 
use. For a school of this size, the 
Gym should be much bigger with 
more services available. The 
pool is disgusting, and the 
weight rooms are dirty and 
smelly. Our gym looks hke a 
dilapidated YMCA when com
pared to the facilities at most 
other private colleges.
While we applaud the efforts 
of SafeWalk, security in gen
eral is poor, especially in offcampus buildings and resi
dences. As one of the most nec
essary services of a University, 
it is imperative that Security 
not suffer.
Escort and Shuttle services do 
not adequately provide students 
living off-campus. Although the 
Shuttle covers Shadyside well, 
perhaps it could touch on Squir
rel Hill areas as well.
Finally, with all of these 
miscomings mentioned, why 
does the University waste 
money on ridiculous services? 
For example, the fourth floor of 
Doherty Hall is not handicap 
accessible, and yet the Univer
sity installed a handicapped 
bathroom. If a person cant get 
their wheelchair on the fourth 
floor, how would they ever visit 
the bathroom
When is the University going 
to start improving campus life 
with the revenues from in
creased tuition fees?
Editor:
I would like to ad
dress some points 
made in last weeks 
editorial [Senate 
wastes time on petty
on
Letter to tho Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
bickering, 1/31]. First, I strongly dis
agree with the statements that the Sen
ate debate on whether to revoke 
InterVarsity Christian Fellowhips rec
ognition status was another waste of 
time and that it offered no benefit to 
the Senators constituents. Senate was 
charged with determining whether IVCF 
may have violated a clause in the by
laws, the rules and regulations Senate 
created to govern its own actions. To 
ignore the possibility that a violation 
occurred would have decimated Senates 
integrity and set a dangerous precedent. 
Ensuring that Senate maintains some 
modicum of respect is most certainly a
benefit to its constituents and hardly a 
waste of time.
The editorials main point, however, is 
that Senate never seems to get any
thing accomplished. This point has some 
validity. To be fair, much of what Senate 
actually does is behind the scenes and 
most of its actions are too small to grab 
the attention of the student body. None
theless, Senate should be far more ac
tive than it is. The reason it is not can be 
attributed to an outdated set of rules 
and procedures which make Senate both 
ineffective and inefficient. Clearly, an 
attitudinal and cultural change is nec
essary in our Senate. But a structural 
change is also long overdue.
Your editorial states that perhaps a 
restructuring of student government is 
in order. Last semester I created an adhoc committee to design a new struc
ture, a task that proved to be more 
difficult and time consuming than I had 
anticipated. Proposals on howto restruc
ture student government will resurface 
this semester. To correct a point of fact: 
the committee I created was a Presiden
tial committee, not a Senate committee. 
Your editorial suggests that the failure 
of this committee to produce a plan is a 
demonstration of Senates ineffective
ness, though this is inaccurate. As Presi
dent, I alone take responsibility for the 
work of this committee and apologize for 
delays in getting a plan on the table.
A restructuring of student government 
and a cultural change among our repre
sentatives are only partial solutions to a 
bigger problem: the student body needs 
to take a more active role in its gover
nance. This is your school. We are fortu
nate to have an administration which 
welcomes student input. We are fortu
nate to have the flexibility to design our 
own government and to take part in it. 
But these benefits mean nothing if you, 
the student, do not take the initiative to 
get involved. Take some time to learn 
who is running in the elections this week
and take just a few minutes to vote. Get 
to know your Senators, make sure they 
know what you want, and hold them 
accountable for their actions.
David Wolpert
Student Government President
CMU ignored weather danger
cmLetter to the Editer
Letter to the Editoi
Editor:
I am absolutely, 
disgusted with who
ever was responsible 
for keeping Car
negie Mellon Uni
versity open on Wednesday, Januan 
19.
At 8:20 in the morning, while I 
many others were walking to class, the 
temperature was a whopping -14 de
grees. CMU was practically the 
institution open in Pittsburgh, besidethe television and radio stations which 
were broadcasting all day that one should 
not leave the house because weather 
conditons made it too dangerous.
Nonetheless, we went to class. Thh 
did not bother me as much as the 
that in three of the major lecture halls, 
there was no heat! I had four classes in 
Doherty Hall 2315 and 2210.1 and many 
others were taking notes with our glove 
on. I have also heard that in Porter Hall 
100, you could see your breath!
What kind of learning environmentii 
this? What kind of school is this? We pay 
over $20,000 a year to go to CMU and we 
are not provided with properly-1 
learning facilities. It is a shame that the 
people who run this school dont even 
have enough sense to know when enough 
is enough!
Roberta Rigano 
Freshman, CIT
AIDS cure must promise big bucks
Eric J. Salzman
Imagine the following: I have found a cure for AIDS.
Just about all of us are aware that AIDS is a horrible virus 
that leads to a slow and painful death. The number of people 
who die from AIDS con- --------------------------:_____________
Money is the motivating factor for pro
duction  in this case research. With
out it as a material measurement for 
success, researchers will have no in
centive to work.
tinues to grow each year.
Because of the vast num
ber of deaths that occurs 
as a result of the AIDS 
virus, much time, money, 
and effort are put into an 
attempt to find a cure.
Sadly, a cure has yet to 
be discovered.
The government funds 
much of the research on
AIDS; therefore, the rights to any discovery made by a scien
tist under such circumstances seem to justly belong to the 
government. The government, as the servant of the people, 
would then be obligated to distribute the cure to its citizens at 
a reasonable price.
But what if I find the cure? If, by some freak accident or 
brilliant research, I discover the cure for AIDS, am I obligated 
like the government? Since people will die without the cure, 
they would pay any amount that they could. Is it within my 
rights in a capitalist society to make as much of a profit with
my product as I possibly can, even if it means that som; 
people die because they cannot afford my cure? You bet itisShould the government take possession of my cure anc 
distribute it to the people who need it? The government 
might compensate me for my work if it did this, but itt 
unlikely that I would receive the amount of money from thf 
government that I could get from the free market.
Of course, there is also the subject of humanity. I haveai 
obligation to society to save people from a horrible virus ifl 
have the capability to do so, right? Spare me! Please dori
---------------------------------------------- forget that without
cure, these people wouM 
die anyway.
Money is the motivat 
ing factor for production 
 in this case research 
Without it as a materia 
measurement for suc
cess, researchers will 
have no incentive t(
_____________________________ work. The point at whid*
the able producers stop 
working is the point at which those who thrive off then 
efforts suffer most. Stifling societys able workers not onlj 
destroys the quality within an individual, but also choke-1 
society itself.
What right does the government, or anyone else for 
matter, have to something of mine? If I am able to come itfl 
with a product that everyone wants, I will make the large-" 
profit off of it that I possibly can. I have no humanitaria; 
obligations to provide my cure to someone else simply ^ 
Please see REWARDS, pz

---------------------------------------------------

Rl. RC6aC8 K dC68.Ui. t.ssg8 K O b.46PC6u DWWO
Gun enthusiasts promote violence
/Lzz-r
Matt Ball
Recently on these pages, a num
ber of men have given their pas
sionate pleas in defense of weap
onry. With all the various prob
lems in the world, the sacred right 
to guns is the only topic that 
garners any response from read
ers. In fact, someone took a re
cent column on homophobia and 
rewrote it, replacing homoexual with gun owner. The 
authors stated purpose was to 
show that the politically correct 
backlash against gun enthusiasts 
is just as irrational as the hatred 
of a person who is attracted to 
someone of the same sex.
This is an absurd and insensi
tive comparison, equating the 
trauma a weapons enthusiast 
feels at the nasty liberals idea of 
putting in place a waiting period 
and background check with the 
widely-accepted prejudice and 
discrimination faced by a person 
whose actions affect nothing and 
no one but themselves and their 
lover.
To an extent, I can understand 
the male-allure of guns and hunt
ing. Growing up, I was next in a 
line of gun-owners and hunters. 
At summer camp, I won marks
man awards from the NRA and 
completed my hunters safety 
class. I enjoyed 
target shoot
ing and I 
lopked forward 
to the rite of 
passage when 
I could go into 
the woods with 
my father and 
grandfather 
and prove my 
manhood by 
murdering an 
animal.
But then I 
grew up.
A more pow
erful argu
ment is the 
fear and para
noia that prods
many people into purchasing a 
gun for self-protection. The idea 
of a law-abiding citizen being 
unable to buy a gun seems foolish 
when it is clear that the crimi
nals have the black market. De
spite anecdotes of old ladies trap
ping intruders in doggie doors 
with their handgun, a gun in a 
house is more likely to injure or 
kill a good guy (or woman or child) 
instead of a bad guy.
While it may seem obvious to 
some that killers on a shooting
spree would be stopped sooner if 
everyone was armed, it should 
also be clear that if everyone had 
a gun, crimes of passion would be 
much more prevalent, with any 
moment of anger possibly prov
ing fatal. A good security system,
while more expensive, is more 
effective at providing protection 
and removes the need for a shoot
out. More guns do not bring peace 
more guns beget more violence.
For all their macho and emo
tional manipulations, members 
of the NRA re
veal their true 
nature in their 
agenda. With 
crime the lead
ing concern of 
many, the main 
focus of the NRA 
is to fight any at
tempts at limit
ing the hallowed 
liberty to more 
firepower. 
While a fearbased argument 
can be made for 
not banning 
handguns, the 
NRA goes much 
further and 
fights against 
any attempts at changing the sta
tus quo of our lawless and angstinfested nation. As a professor 
put it, the mindset of the NRA is 
If you take away my semi-automatics to kill masses of people, 
next youll take away my weapGabrien Symons/Tartan Artist
ons to kill masses of other ani
mals.
Their impassioned and twisted 
frenzy to protect assault rifles 
and cop-killer bullets should re
veal gun enthusiasts as the en
emy. If all they did was sit at 
home and lovingly stroke their 
weapons, I would have nothing to 
say about their private actions.
But guns are not lovers.
While it is true that people kill 
people (and any weaker creature), 
guns are instruments created by 
people for the single violent pur
pose ofinflictinginjury and death. 
They provide the owner with the 
power to threaten, kill, and de
stroy. Guns are the embodiment 
of depravity; in many cases, gun 
advocates and devotees have the 
same drives  insecurity, lust 
for poweras vicious criminals.
We are creating a society where 
more and more of us live like deer 
during hunting season. As long 
as we allow society-approved, 
three piece suit-clad violence fa
natics to defend our right to the 
latest laser-sighted large-caliber 
semi-automatic sport rifle, the 
situation will only get worse.
Matt Ball is a PhD student in 
engineering and public policy.
Our generation fails to rediscover 60s idealism
L. r! Jason Specland
Call me a cynic, but it just seems like 
nobody gives a damn any more. I recall a 
time about 25 or 30 years ago when the 
college students of America were activists. 
They sat-in their deans offices, they marched 
on Washington, and they fought injustices 
great and small. Heck, they even stopped a 
war. Recently, though, it seems that the 
activism that made the 1960s a decade that 
will be remembered as a decade of the youth 
has.been lost on todays campus.
Take a look at the student government 
elections. Dont remember them? Im not 
surprised. Voter turnout for student govern
ment elections, the one area which youd 
think affects each and every student to a 
great degree, has been absolutely pathetic. 
And if you think voter turnout is bad, wait 
til you see candidate turnout. Hell, Snoopy 
won a seat in GSIA last year! Students at 
CMU just dont give a damn.
During the conflict in Somalia, there were 
some people who put up posters announcing 
an anti-war protest, with the perfectly peaceful and reasonably intelligent message, 
Bread, not bombs. These signs were ridi
culed, torn down, and, most importantly, 
ignored. During the Iraqi war, sure, there 
were some token protests. Sure, there were 
some tiny pockets of insurrection, but noth
ing compared to say, the 1968 Chicago 
convention. No mainstream opposition to 
war from the generation after that which
in bed with the Department of Defense. 
For us, its no problem to support a 
gigantic killing factory. We dont even 
choose to utilize such basic tools for 
change as our own student government. 
For all students care, a demagogue could 
mobilize her forces to take over the sen
ate for her own purposes. Perhaps she 
already has....
Snoopy won a seat in GSIA last year! Students 
at CMU just dont give a damn.
espoused peace above all else. If we send 
our troops to Bosnia, will the only shout
ing heard from the streets of America be 
the blood cries of the war hawks and the 
sobs of those whove lost one they love?
Here at CMU, and all across the campus 
world, were perfectly content to live off of 
Mommy and Daddys money and not care 
what goes on outside of the bounds of our 
tiny little campus. Hell, we dont care 
what goes on inside the bounds of this 
campus. Students at CMU are perfectly 
happy to attend a school that is very much
We owe so much to the movements at 
Berkeley, and all across this nation dur
ing the 60s. The very fact that we can 
protest on campus, hand out literature, 
and say just about whatever the heck we 
please without fear of retaliation from 
the administration, we owe to the activ
ists of the 60s. Its a crying shame that 
we dont utilize this immense power we 
discovered 30 years ago. We have such 
an incredible power to effect change in 
this nation and on this campus, and still 
we do nothing.
Researchers entitled to rewards
REWARDS, from page 6
cause that person needs it.
Unfortunately, President Bill 
Clinton is contemplating a policy 
that will tell doctors how much 
they can earn. In fact, the policy 
would tell a doctor how much he 
or she can have; earn would no
be a word in the doctors 
vocabulary. The government has 
no right to tell doctors, who have 
worked hard for their position, 
that they must serve society.
Just because doctors have the 
ability to save lives does not mean 
that they should be forced to do so 
without fair compensation. Con
tractors are not forced to build 
houses for the homeless, farmers 
do not have to feed the starving, 
and doctors should not have to 
cure the sick.
Doctors provide a valuable ser
vice to society, but that should 
not make them societys slaves. If 
their service is so great that they
can charge high prices, they must 
continue to do so. That is the 
principle that capitalism thrives 
on.
Without it, the United States is 
on the same path of destruction 
that ended the Soviet Union.
Eric J. Salzman is a freshman 
in H&SS who thinks the demise 
of the Soviet Union should give 
President Clinton something to 
think about.
arking  University Center  reeJcsT^Stdent invTvmenT'^TTSenr^enle" 
\thletic Facilities  Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health  Banking 
Politics  Funding  Football Field  Student Affairs  Constitution  Constructor 
Overcrowding  Contras  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Gymnasium  Dininj 
Service  Beavis and Butt-head  Recycling  GATT  Congress  Middle East 
Weather  Advising  Cookiegate  Geeks  Alcohol  Drugs  Music  Mighty Mousi 
Comedy 
Jrime  All-] 
elations  SI 
DC-1 Os  H(
Overcrowdi
f Allen  The Muppets  Mail  Manure  Advertising  Disco
Grant's Sex LifeHair Mousse  Humai 
fiedResearcl 
Constructor 
inmen
Ishtar II 
C<>gugj haWesWpmni 
'id^ggMftAVgBBW^'Al
Alcohol  Gay Rights  Drugs  Budget  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Thi 
Hag  Woody Allen  Funding  Student Affairs  Mayor  Construction  Traci 
rield  Overcrowding  Constitution  Activities Board  Gymnasium  Housing 
Sororities  Charities  Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Congress  Clul 
Sports  Macmailll  Weather  Tonya Harding  Crime  Sex  Geeks  Corruptior 
Violence  Alcohol  Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Woody Allen 1 
lun ding  Student Affairs  Construction  Overcrowding  Housing  Racial Issue: Sororities^hTtiesjJTheJjiob^^
CMUs study abroad pro
gramprovides students with 
an opportunity to explore 
cinother culture and improve 
foreign language skills. We 
asked students :lf you could 
study abroad anywhere 
m the world, where 
would you go and why?
Nicole Du Guay
Junior
IM
I would go to Australia be
cause my uncle lived there and 
raved about it. Plus, I dont know 
a foreign language.
Jake Steele 
Junior
Mechanical Engineering
Switzerland, so then I can 
snowboard in the Alps.
Christine Shambach 
Freshman
Chemical Engineering
I wouldnt like to study 
abroad. I dont think Id feel com
fortable in another country; Im 
too Americanized.
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
Lloyd Wilkerson
Freshman
ECE
I would go to Africa to. find 
out more about my roots.
THETARTAN
Camegle Mellons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief........Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed......Samuel Greenfield
Business Mgr.............Lauren Heinz
News Editor...............Jason Togyer
Forum Editor...............Abby Schiff
Sports Editor..............Eric Strauss
Features Co-Editors.....Tonya Rado
Kathleen Wright 
Diversions Co-Editors ....John Biggs 
Tara Zane
Calendar Editor........Brockett Horne
Dossier Literary Co-Eds. Aimee Beal 
Germain E. DeSeve VIII 
Dossier Dsgn Ed. ..R. J. McGlnness
Art Co-Editors................Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Co-Editors.............Jim Snyder
Jennifer Urso
Production Mgr............Katie Swango
Copy Manager.............Eileen O'Shea
Personnel Manager ..Frank Michels
Systems Mgr...........Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Editor.....Eric Salzman
Asst. Forum Ed.............Kris Hinrlchs
Asst. Sports Co-Eds......AnuJ Gupta
Carolyn Skarada 
Asst. Production Mgr. Derek Wahila
Photo Staff Manager....David Perry
Darkroom Manager.......Daniel Frey
Contributing Editors 
Keegan Folk, Laura McClure, 
Brendan McFeely, Tina L. Urso
We are in grave danger of becoming 
another silent generation. We are ac
quiescent and obedient. We are in danger 
of becoming a generation whose sole in
terest is self-interest. Were becoming a 
generation for whom the 1960s have been 
reduced to a CD collectionfromTime/Life 
music. Were becoming a generation that 
doesnt know how to Just Do It unless 
Nike tells us to. Were a generation in 
whichMTV and their cohorts onMadison 
Avenue tell us what to think, what to feel, 
and, most importantly, what to buy.
For a second, though, I had a glimmer 
of hope. When Bill Clinton was elected 
President of the United States, I saw a 
small light at the end of the tunnel. I 
thought that maybe, just maybe, some
one with a social conscience would be 
occupying the White House.
Boy, was I wrong. In order to please the 
complacent wealthy class in America, 
Bill Clinton has sold his soul and broken 
nearly every promise he made. Its no 
surprise, though, that were the ones who 
elected him. We are all traitors to the last 
generation.
Jason Specland is a sophomore in 
H&SS.
Senior Staff 
Tony deFigio, David Hunt, Janice 
McClure
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Nicole Allen, Jason 
Andracki, Matt Ball, Jennifer Barkin, 
Kymberly M. Bartlo, David Bazelon, 
Allan Bourdlus, Mahua Dutta, Jes
sica Fang, Andi Francioni, Tom 
Harper, Edward Hayes, Jason 
Heinlein, Micki Kochanskyj, Justin 
Lam, Declan McCullagh, Matthew 
Messner, Ronak Singhal, Jason 
Specland, Rhonda Struminger, Su
san Stuart, Bethany Sutton, JenniferTurner, Mike Walker, John Weber
Art
Gabrien Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowltz, Dexter Kobayashl
Photo
VlneetAgarwal, Kevin Chen, Bassem 
El-Dasher, Andrew Flores, Andrew 
McDermott, Jim Snyder, Marla 
Valenti
Darkroom 
Jon Confer, Tom Gilbert, Margaret 
Stallings
Production 
Becky Elroy, Jason Ma, Carrie 
McDonough, Eric Pettus, Jenna 
Sweterlitsch
Copy
Roshnl Bhakta, Jennifer Forbes, 
Madhav Ghanta, Yerln Kay, Lisa 
Kruglak, Ed Slavishak, Elizabeth 
Zambelll
Business 
Christa Bower, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Jin Bae, Robert Brunsklll, Justin 
Carroll, Kristen Connell, Madhav 
Ghanta, Dan Goidwasser, D. Renee 
Hairston, Amy Haupl, Brian Kidder, 
Buck Neel, Elizabeth Neuman, Jesse 
Nice, Pat Prasangsit, Lisa Steggles, 
Gabe Symons, DaniellaTopol, Vivien 
Weiss, David White, Ron Yang, Brian 
Young
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper pub
lished by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the Univer
sity community. It is printed by Western Pennsylva
nia Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for 
the semester or academic year. The editorials 
appearing at the beginning of the opinion section 
are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns and political cartoons are the 
opinions of individual creators. The Tartan re
serves the right to reject or condense any column 
or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are 
opinions of authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members of the University commu
nity. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and Include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 500 words. Tho Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright 
1993 by Tho Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegle 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN tt: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Sfeas>ks:
V
e.jgbj 
-ppo5Sf-one5
5fcaU.iftS
4itf.W*I..' m r^3o p^
Sunday February 1 3th
How long has it been since 
you've been on a field trip?
AB Concerts feels that it has been far too long. We thought that you 
wouldn't mind paying half price to go see the Mighty Mighty Bosstones 
at Metropol this Sunday... and you could probably come up with a buck 
for a bus to get you there and back... So, we are pleased to announce:
Helddvec bus
Tickets On Sale All This Week at The Skibo Information Desk r
Mighty Mighty Bosstones with the Skablins Concert Tickets: $5.00 withID Bus Tickets: 51.00=b
.By .yJBESNSIC
First relational database. First to implement SQL. First portable database software. First database compatible with massively parallel 
computing. First database to perform 1,000 transactions per second. First cooperative-server database. But Oracle is not just about 
databases. Were also leaders in advanced networking, CASE, application development, office automation, development tools, 
multimedia. You can see, were also about success.
BS/MS CS/EE. You can become a: Software Developer  Technical Analyst  Consultant  Product Manager 
Well be on campus February 17-18. E-mail your resume TODAY!
ORACLG
Equal talent will always get equal opportunity. 
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: lslynn@us.oracle.com / FAX: 415-506-1073 / PHONE: 415-506-6991
Ours.Theirs.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Indoor track shines at Robert Morris
j CAROLYN SKARADA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The womens track and field competi
tion over the weekend was very promisand Mahalynn Lu. Another second place 
win, made by freshman Becky Buchheit, 
was in the 3000-meter run.
In the 1500-meter run, sophomore 
Sanquita Jinwala came in third place, 
pg for the 94 indoor season. Sophomore This was the first time I competed in 
tfissy Baustert qualified for Nationals this event, Jinwala said. Right now 
the 800-meter run with a time of Im trying out other events since only
}:18.4. It was a successful day for 
3austert, who finished fourth place overJ1 at the meet.
Senior Aliza Hildebrand came in fifth 
jlace out of 16 competitors in the 5000- 
neter run. Her time for this event was 
18:41.
Friday night at Robert Morris was the 
true beginning of the season for the 
women. There were 
number of new 
performances for 
the team, coach 
Dario Donatelli 
He was very 
with the 
way things went 
that night as the 
team pulled in first, 
second, and third 
place wins for 
Carnegie Mellon.
First place win
ners include senior 
Ersula Cosby in the 
triple jump, along 
with freshman Lesie Brown for shot 
put.
Freshman Laquetta Carter came 
in second place in 
the 200-meter run.
This group of freshman is the best com
ing in, Donatelli remarked. All were 
j recruited and will be competing in outjHdbr.
The freshmen have proved their worth, 
bringing in another second place win in 
;he 4x400 relay. Sophomore Stephanie 
Itine started out the relay, followed by 
[ freshmen Laquetta Carter, Molly Clifton,
three people can run the 800 at UAA 
Championships.
Jinwala competed in cross country last 
year at CMU, but never ran track in 
high school. I played other varsity sports 
all through high school, and when I 
came here I missed the discipline and 
the challange of competition, she said.
The team is like another family,
rnammmmmmmmmmm...  ' '33
"j
1"
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Co-Editor
b6.hlFC8 mC6FCi8. ,.haFg6.sC8r 7Chh.h al. 4Cag8 ag C a.CFFCa. rP6i8U C 6.sCuc
Jinwala said about her experience with 
track at CMU. She also said, Dario is 
really accomodating and very encourag
ing.
With one month to go before UAA 
Championships, held at the University 
of Chicago this year, the womens team 
is on their way to victory.
The mens track and field team had a
very successful meet. We totally domi
nated the meet, coach Gary Meckley 
said in reference to the seven other com
petitors present at the meet.
Out of the possible 13 events, we took 
first place in 10 of them and second place 
in two others, Meckley said.
This was especially good considering 
the other teams at the meet were Divi
sion II: Clarion, California State, 
Westminster, Wheeling Jesuit, Walsh 
College, and Geneva. The Tartans will 
face many of these schools later in the 
season, or in outdoor competition.
The mens team proved to be well bal
anced in strength. We have potential in 
shot put, short sprints, hurdles, and 
were fairly good 
in distance, 
Meckley predicts.
Beginning the 
meet, in the 55- 
meter hurdles, the 
Tartans placed in 
second, third and 
fifth.
Freshman Matt 
Solitro came in 
second place with 
a time of 8.0 sec
onds. A senior, 
Gary Long, came 
in third place, fol
lowed by sopho
more Zack Conly 
in fifth.
In the second 
event, the 55- 
meter dash, freshman Buck Neel 
came in second 
place at 6.5 seconds. This is one of the 
best times that CMU has had in the last 
couple of years.
Senior Jim Langer finished first place 
in the 1500 with a time of 4.14, followed 
by teammate sophomore Mike Rea. 
Langer also won the 3K with a time of 
9.15. In the 800 meters, grad student 
Brad Shapiro came in first place for the
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Co-Editor
dt2 6P88.6h M6.hlFC8 N.1Su NP1ll.ia9 mP8ig6 ,.8ru N.iahi8U.69 C8r M6.hlFC8 fFu 
TPUU.aa -h.1g8r9 ali6r9 C8r MiMal M6gF s.MaJ 6C8 i8 al. wkkk F.a.6hc
i
Tartans with a time of 2.03.
CMU took both the first and second 
place wins in the 200-meter event. Se
nior Jarrod Siket and Neel both had 
times of 24.3.
The team is very young and has the 
potential to be very good, Meckley said 
about the large number of freshmen he 
recruited. Freshmen Josh Greynolds and 
Ron Polzawich came in first and fourth 
places, respectively, in the 5K
Another first place win was made by 
the 4x400 relay with a time of 3:36. The 
relay team consisted of freshmen Jorden 
Hopkins and Neel, sophomore Rea, and 
Siket.
In the field event competition, senior 
Brandyn Wodard placed first in the long 
jump. Wodard jumped 21'3". Freshman 
Doug Harrell came in third place at 
19'3" for the long jump, but finished first 
in the triple jump with 43'3".
Junior Jason Grusky did very well in 
the shot put, placing first with 46'3". For 
the 35 lb. weight, sophomore E.J. 
Tsangaris came in first place as well, 
with his throw being 396".
Overall, Meckley was very pleased
with the outcome of the meet. Those 
athletes that did exceptionally well in
clude Matt Solitro, Neel, Greynolds, and 
Harrell in the triple jump.
Coming up on February 12, the men 
will compete at the West Virginia Uni
versity Invitational.
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Co-Editor 
Rl. i8rgg6 a6C1S a.CF ih l.Cr.r agIC6r 
al. 2ff F..a9 al.8 al. gPargg6 h.Chg8cSwim team finishes season, preps for UAAs
i By CAROLYN SKARADA
j Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
\ The CMU mens and womens swim teams com\ peted in their final meet of the season against 
j Fairmont State in West Virginia over the weekend. 
! Both teams ended on a good note, with the final 
\ scores being: CMU 69, Fairmont 50 for the women 
! and CMU 93, Fairmont 69 for the men.
1 There were two personal best times recorded on 
i the womens team: for junior Sarah Broadley in the 
| 200-yard freestyle event and sophomore Holley 
| Anstatt in the 200-yardbreaststroke. Their times
were 2:11.99 and 2:54.49, respectively.
I was surprised with my time considering we 
still have a week left of tapering, Anstatt said. 
Im looking forward to a good race at UAAs.
Highlights for the mens team include a number 
of first place wins. The 400-yard medley relay, 
including sophomore Geoff Waller, junior Don 
Nelson, senior co-captain Anupam Narula, and 
sophomore Mike Berty pulled in with a time of 
3:54.0.
In the 200-yard butterfly, CMU won both the 
first and second place spots. Waller came in first at 
2:01.1, followed closely by teammate sophomore
George Schmidt at 2:01.8.
Junior Chris ORourke won first place in the 100- 
yard freestyle with a time of 52.9.
For the next 11 days, we will be preparing for 
UAAs, coach Jim Cutrone said. The UAA champi
onships will be held from February 1719 at the 
University of Rochester.
A first place win for the womens 400-yard med
ley relay, with a finish time of 4:42.5, set CMU in 
favor for the meet. Relay swimmers for this event 
were junior Joanne Kievan, senior Denise Fenwick, 
junior Sarah Broadley, and freshman Christina 
Hagopian.
Sophomore Rebecca Fruehan contributed two 
first place finishes in both the 200-yard freestyle at > 
2:01.77, and the 500 freestyle at 5:19.57.
Fruehan andMoe were both named UAA Athlete 
of the Week for the week ending January 31 for 
their performances that week. Fruehan set her 
sixth school record (1000-yard freestyle), and Moe 
won two events against Division II Slippery Rock.
Fruehan broke a four year old record with a time 
of11:02.90. Moe won the 200-yard individual med
ley and the 200-yard breaststroke.
A meet that CMU was expected to win proved to 
be a success for the Tartans.
Men play tough against NYU
| By JOHN WEBER
\ Tartan Staffiuriter 
; &ANUJ GUPTA
! Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
\ After recording an upset vic| tory over Washington University 
i last week, the Tartans were given 
\ chance to pull another one 
! ps week. This time it was the 
! PAA division-leading New York 
! Violets. It also gave the Tartans a 
! c^ance for revenge against the 
i team that beat them only two 
| weeks ago in Skibo Gymnasium. 
| The first five minutes of the 
j game made it look like it would be 
j a long night for the Tartans. The 
j Violets scored the first nine points 
j to take an early 9-0 lead. But the 
J ^artans quickly battled back, 
j Senior center Charlie Connors 
\ and senior forward Derek 
j pragisich scored to make it 94 
' fllc^ then just over seven minutes 
j into the game sophomore forward 
| Kevin Byrne nailed a 3-pointer to 
i draw the Tartans within two points.
i The Tartans later tied the game 
| on a basket by Dragisich. 
! ^ ^rk then regained the lead
! ff1 clung to a slim margin until 
[ e Tartans tied the game again 
! n^reshman guard Rich Bodnars 
| Jayup with 4:27 left in the first 
; Ra f* about a minute later 
i odnar hit another basket to give 
^the Tartans a 22-20-lead.
anny Stevens then scored five
unanswered points for the Vio
lets to put New York back in front 
by three. But Dragisich scored 
with 51 seconds and Byrne scored 
with 15 seconds to give the Tar
tans a 26-25 halftime lead.
In the first half, the Tartans 
were playing the first-place Vio
lets well enough to beat them. 
They were keeping the Violets 
powerful offense quiet and they 
were out-rebounding their oppo
nent.
But the second half was not at 
all like the first half. With 16:14 
left in the game the Violets went 
on a 9-2 run that lasted almost 
two minutes, capped off with a 
three-pointer by Mike Farrell. 
This gave the Violets an eightpoint lead, a lead that they would 
never relinquish.
The Tartans closed the New 
York lead to three points two 
times late in the game, but they 
could not get any closer. Then 
with under three minutes left, 
the Tartans started fouling in an 
attempt to get back into the game. 
However, New York made most 
of its foul shots and built a 10- 
point cushion with only 11 sec
onds left. Byrne then added one 
more basket for the Tartans with 
only five seconds left to make the 
final score 69-61 in favor of New 
York.
Like two weeks ago, the Tar
tans gave New York a good battle, 
but it was New Yorks offense
that made the difference. In the 
first half New York only shot 34.4 
percent from the field and scored 
only 25 points, but in the second 
half the Violets hit 51.6 percent 
of their shots from the field and 
racked up 44 points.
The Tartans were led by 
Dragisich, who scored 20 points 
(and had eight rebounds). Also, 
Byrne had nine points and 10 
rebounds. The scoring leaders for 
New York were Adam Crawford 
(12 points) and John Whiteside 
(10 points).
The half-time free throw shoot
ing contest will have an added 
twist during next Fridays game 
against Washington University 
of St. Louis. Two lucky contes
tants will have an opportunity to 
shoot over a cardboard cutout of 
Shaquille ONeal (the star of the 
movie Blue Chips) in the free 
throw shooting contest. The win
ner of the contest will win some 
great prizes, courtesy of the mak
ers of the movie Blue Chips.
The Tartan men continued on 
to road to Massachusetts where 
they faced UAA rival Brandeis 
University. Plagued by recent 
struggles on the road, the Tar
tans were looking for a turn
around, and that was what they 
got as they downed Brandeis by a 
score of 78-72.
Although the score was close, 
the Tartan men dominated the
Please see BASKETBALL, page 11
Women struggle on road trip
By ANUJ GUPTA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
When it rains, it pours. This 
appeared to be the case at the 
beginning of a two-game road 
trip, which would take the 
Carnegie Mellon womens bas
ketball team from their first 
opponent, New York Univer
sity, to another UAA rival, 
Brandeis University.
Starting on Friday night, at 
the Coles Sports Center in New 
York, the Tartan women were 
downed by New York Univer
sity by a more than decisive 
score of 57-38.
Although the Tartans came 
back to play better ball in the 
second half, the game was 
clearly out of reach by the end 
of the first as New York 
outscored the Tartans by a 29- 
15 margin.
NYU shot at 43.3 percent 
from the field for the first pe
riod while the Tartans 
straggled at 29.2 percent. But 
the Tartans showed marked im
provement in the second period 
as they shot a blistering 47.1 
field goal percentage to improve 
the final percentage for the 
game to 36.6 percent. The 47.1 
percent was a best for the Tar
tans in their past three games. 
The CMU women also showed 
marked improvement in their 
free throw percentage as they
shot only 50 percent from the line 
in the first period, but 75 percent 
in the second.
The leading scorer for the Tar
tans was freshman guard Kristen 
Kupfer with 12 points, who was 
followed by freshman forward 
Daphne Harris with sevenpoints, 
and junior guard Jenny Gretz 
and freshman guard Kelly 
Gaitens who had four points 
apiece.
The leading rebounder for the 
Tartans was Harris, who had 
seven total including three offen
sive. She was followed by Kupfer 
and junior forward Christa Sober 
who had four apiece. Gaitens led 
in the assist category with two.
The Tartans were clearly 
outplayed on defense as they had 
one steal versus the 16 of New 
York University.
The Tartans also struggled 
from the three-point line as they 
were a combined one for 10 for 
the game.
The win improved New York 
University to 15-2 overall ( 9-1 
in the UAA).
The Tartan women continued 
their road ^rip by facing UAA 
opponent Brandeis University, on 
Sunday afternoon. Although hop
ing for a change of luck, the roadweary Tartans were again hit 
hard as they lost to Brandeis by a 
score of 72-61.
Although the Tartans lost by 
an 11-point margin, they kept
the game close going into the 
second half as the score was a 
close 37-34, infavor ofBrandeis 
after the first half.
The Tartans were led all the 
way by Gretz who had another 
big game, with 20 points. She 
was followed by senior Jeanine 
Megahan (who did not play 
against NYU) with 14 points, 
freshman Penny Summerville 
with seven points, and Kupfer 
and Gaitens who both contributedfive points apiece. The scor
ing was highlighted by the two 
points contributed by senior 
Mary Moore, as it gave her a 
total of 501 points for her ca
reer.
Megahan led the way in re
bounding for the Tartans as 
she compiled seven rebounds 
for the game. She was sup
ported on the boards by fresh
man Rebecca McCadney who 
had live rebounds, and Kupfer 
who added four of her own.
Gretz also led the Tartans in 
assists, totaling four for the 
game, and she was followed by 
Kupfer and Gaitens who had 
three assists apiece. Gretz also 
shot an accurate six for eight 
from the free throw line and 
contributed on the defensive 
end with six steals.
The loss dropped the Tartan 
women to 8-11 overall and 2-8 
in the UAA, with five games 
left in the season.

---------------------------------------------------

DkRl. RC6aC8 K dC68.Ui. t.ssg8 K O b.46PC6u DWW
Missed field goal still haunts four-time losers
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
For Buffalo, the journey toward Super 
Bowl failure didnt start last Sunday at 
6:18 pm. It didnt start in 1990 in the 
Orange Bowl. It didnt even start in 1989 
(their first Super Bowl season). It started 
one summer earlier in the 1980s. This 
was the summer that the Buffalo Bills 
decided to waive kicker Gary Anderson. 
They only had about six kicks to judge 
him on, and as it turned out, he missed 
one too many of those pre-season field 
goals. Anderson quickly found a job with 
the Steelers and was on his way to be
coming one of the best kickers ever.
Several years later in 1990, the Bills 
found themselves down by one point in 
the Super Bowl. The Giants had the lead
20-19 and there were three seconds left.
Scott Norwood was about to try a 45- 
yard field goal to win the Super Bowl. 
However, Norwood missed the kick to 
the right and found himself out of a job 
about a year and a half later.
Some football fans dont seem to real
ize just what a one-point Super Bowl 
loss can do to a team. The Buffalo Bills 
had gotten as close to winning a Super 
Bowl as any team can without actually 
winning it. This put a chip on the Bills 
shoulder that remains there to this day. 
The Bills feel that they should have won 
Super Bowl XXV and that they are going 
to win one or die trying.
This attitude led them down the road 
to Super Bowl failure. They proceeded to 
go to three more Super Bowls and lose, 
their most recent loss coming last Sun
day at the hands of the Dallas Cowboys, 
30-13. Despite their incredible desire to 
want to return to the Super Bowl one 
more time, once they got there they 
looked like they were being attacked by 
a wild pack of dogs. Last Sunday when I 
watched the Cowboys offensive line open 
the Bills defense up like Moses dividing 
the Red Sea (in one of the closer Bills 
Super Bowl slaughters), I thought to
myself what most of the free world was 
thinking: Will the Bills be in the Super 
Bowl in 1995? Is this team going to ever 
win its Super Bowl, or is it going to die 
trying?
In 1992, the AFC started to change. 
New teams were rivaling the Bills, but
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
they never budged. This year the Steelers 
showed a lot of promise when they de
feated the Bills 23-0, but they lost Barry 
Foster and fell apart. Then the Oilers 
showed up, won 11 in a row, and lost. 
Then, finally, Joe Montana and the Kan
sas City Chiefs went to Buffalo as the 
AFC took one last shot at the Bills. But 
the Bills got through it all, all the while
with a chip on their shoulder. They were 
going to go to their fourth Super Bowl, 
and no one was going to stop them. And 
again they lost.
The funny thing is that it could have 
all been different. If the Bills would have 
kept Gary Anderson, they probably (most 
likely) would have defeated the Giants 
(in their first Super Bowl appearance) 
and probably would have had enough 
confidence to upset the Redskins the 
very next year. Then, satisfied with their 
performance, they would have never de
veloped this Super Bowl complex and 
would have been happy to let someone 
else try to beat the Cowboys these last 
two years.
To be honest, I think the Bills are a 
Super Bowl team. Its just that 1990 was 
such a shock to them, they have never 
had the confidence to actually win a 
Super Bowl. I call it Buffalo Bill Super 
Bowl traumatic stress disorder.
Lets not dwell on the Super Bowl 
losers, lets talk about the winners. Con
gratulations to the Dallas Cowboys, who 
have now won two Super Bowls in a row. 
The first question that comes to mind 
now that the Cowboys are two-time
champions is whether they can becoi 
three-time champions or not. No tej 
has ever won three Super Bowls in a roi 
and the Cowboys will be no exception 
For one, Norv Turner, Dallas offensiye 
coordinator, just became the coach 
Washington Redskins. The Cowboys 
were able to overcome the loss of DaVe 
Wannstedt at the beginning of the year 
but losing Turner means losing a lot of 
coaching experience. Next year is goin( 
to be a difficult year for the Cowboys 
Winning the Super Bowl twice is never 
a fluke, so the Cowboys had better be 
ready for opponents that are going to 
throw everything they have at them.
However, the Cowboys can worry about 
that later. Right now they can claim; a 
dynasty. They are young, talented, and 
strong. Even if the Cowboys dont return 
to the Super Bowl next year, I would 
expect to see them back within the next 
five years. The Steelers were the team of 
the 70s, the 49ers were the team of the 
80s, and the Cowboys could very well be 
the team of the 90s.
John Weber is a junior civil engineer
ing major.
NHL trading deadline looms as Olympics near
The Puck Stops Here
by Allan Bourdius
The NHL has entered its an
nual trade season as the March 
trading deadline approaches. 
Quebec sent contract holdout 
defenseman Steve Duschene to 
St. Louis for defenseman Garth 
Butcher and centers Ron Sutter 
and Bob Bassen.
Butcher is perhaps the key ac
quisition for Quebec; they des
perately need his .size and grit 
back on the blue line. St. Louis, 
who has been without superstar 
defenseman Phil Housley nearly 
all season due to a back injury, 
should benefit from Duschenes 
offensive contributions. In his 
seven games since joining the 
Blues, Duschene has scored three 
goals and six points.
The biggest trade of the season 
is probably still waiting to hap
pen. Its pretty obvious that if the 
Detroit Red Wings are going to 
make a run at their first Stanley 
Cup sincel955, theyre going to 
need better goaltending.
Rookie Chris Osgood and long
time starter Tim Cheveldae have 
split the duties thus far. Both 
have 13 wins, but Detroits suc
cess to date has been simply a 
result of their overpowering of
fense, not strength in their own 
zone. Will the Wings pull the 
trigger on a blockbuster deal?
Well, the latest rumors have 
Detroits superstar center Steve 
Yzerman heading to one of three 
teams  Edmonton, Florida, or 
New Jersey  for a goaltender 
and other players.
The prize to be had in Edmonton 
is Bill Ranford. Ranford led the 
Oilers to their last Stanley Cup 
in 1990. Defenseman Dave 
Manson  another player cov
eted by teams around the league 
 could also be part of the deal. 
To bring Yzerman to Florida, gen
eral manager Bob Clarke would 
have to deal All-Star goaltender 
John Vanbeisbrouck. Thats 
pretty unlikely, considering 
Clarkes own remarks: If I traded 
Beezer, the fans would run me 
out of the state.
For years, the fans and writers 
who follow the New Jersey Devils 
have said that the only thing be
tween that team and a Stanley 
Cup is a star center. Rookie Mar
tin Brodeurs success in goal 
makes veteran Chris Terreri ex
pendable, especially since the 
Devils expect Team USA sensa
tion and University of Maine star 
Mike Dunham to join the team 
immediately following the Olym
pics. If the Devils make a trade 
for Yzerman, theyll probably 
send defensemen Bruce Driver 
and Tommy Albelin as well as
one or two utility players.
In Pittsburgh, the Mario 
Lemieux watch continues. It was 
thought that he might play in 
either Detroit this past Friday or 
in New Jersey on Saturday. Ap
parently, Lemieux would have 
played in the New Jersey game 
but was scratchedbecause he con
tinued to suffer back pain. One of 
the teams medical personnel was 
overheard saying that with his 
type of injury, hes always going 
to be day-to-day.
The Penguins got a short-lived 
boost with the return of goalie 
Tom Barrasso this weekend. 
Barrasso made 29 saves in 
Fridays 6-3 win over Detroit. 
Coach Eddie Johnston then made 
a highly questionable decision 
and started Barrasso again on 
Saturday night in New Jersey.
Its highly unusual for a 
goaltender to start on back-toback nights, especially after hav
ing just returned from an injury. 
Barrasso isnt in shape yet, and it 
showed.
After two periods, Barrasso was 
protecting a tenuous 3-2 Pitts
burgh lead, but then he let the 
floodgates open. The Devils 
banged in five unanswered third 
period goals, four of them in less 
than three minutes, to embar
rass Barrasso and the Penguins 
7-3.
The 1994 Winter Olympics be
gin next Saturday in Lillehamer, 
Norway. This year, the United 
States has its best chance at a
hockey medal since the Miracle 
on Ice gold medal in 1980 at 
Lake Placid. Team USAs defense 
is led by 1988 and 1992 Olym
pian Peter Laviolette. He will 
become the first hockey player to 
compete in three Olympics for 
the United States.
Laviolette has spent most of 
his professional career in the 
minors; he played in 12 games 
with the New York Rangers in 
the 1988-89 season.
At some point duringthe Olym
pics, you might think youre see
ing double. Identical twins Peter 
and Chris Ferraro are two power
forward-type players who will 
give their opponents fits. Peter is 
the more talented of the two and 
was a first-round pick of the Rang
ers in 1992. Two other offensive 
players to watch are centers Todd 
Marchant and Brian Rolston.
Team USA plays preliminary 
round contests starting with 
France on February 13, Slovakia 
on the 15th, Canada on the 17th, 
Sweden on the 19th, and Italy on 
the 21st.
One team that should be inter
esting to watch is Slovakia. NHL 
great Peter Stastny leads the 
team. Stastny compiled impres
sive statistics  444 goals, 1221 
points in 954 NHL games played. 
Stastnys record for points scored 
by a rookie held until just 
season. Reunited with his brother 
Anton, another former NHL 
player (who scored 626 points>in 
650 games), Stastny should give 
the Slovakian Olympic teanr 
chance to do better than it hasTii 
years, perhaps even challenging 
for a medal.
Allan Bourdius is a fifth year 
senior double majoring in applied 
history and industrial manage
ment.
Calabria's
Italian Restaurant
HOURS
MON-THURS 11 am-11 pm
FRIDAY 11 am-12am
SATURDAY 4 pm-12am
SUNDAY 11 am-1 lpm
DRIVERS NEEDED
Delivery Drivers Carry Less Than $20 Change
FAST FREE DELIVERY
to the Carnegie Mellon University Campus 
4911 Penn Avenue Bloomfield  Garfield
362-3446
Lost Order Taken For Delivery 
1/2 Hour Before Closing Time
Offer xpires 2/28/94 
coupon upon pick-up Must mention coupon when ordering. Must present 
or delivery. Not valid with any other offer or promotion.
LARGE 12 CUT > 
PIZZA WITH 2 
TOPPINGS 
+ 2 liter bottle of 
PEPSI i
i 
i
$2.00 OFF 
ANY ORDER 
OVER
LARGE 
STROMBOLI AND 
SMALL 
STROMBOLI 
+ 2 liter botile of 
PEPSI
$8.99$
I20001099
WHOLE ITALIAN !
HOAGIE 
+ 1 liter bottle of 
PEPSI i
I 
i 
i 
l 
l
$499
r
LARGE 12 CUT 
PIZZA AND ANY 
WHOLE HOAGIE i 
+ 2 liter bottle of i 
PEPSI iI 
I
WHOLE HOT 
SAUSAGE 
HOAGIE 
+ 1 liter bottle of 
PEPSI
*1099c99
fittention:
all Resident Students!
The Room Reservation Process for 
1994-95 is coming soon!
The Room Reservation process for the 1994-95 academic year will be held on 
March 1,2,3 and March 14,15,16,17.
All students who wish to participate in the university housing reservation pro
cess for the 1994-95 academic year must pay a $100 deposit between February 2 
and February 24,1994. The deposit should lie paid at the Cashier's office in 
Warner Hall. Correspondence on this deposit payment is not mailed to your 
home. Parents and guardians who wish to handle this payment should provide 
students with the deposit amount and the student must deliver the payment to 
the Cashier's Office. It is important that you save your receipt for the deposit 
because you must show it in order to participate in the room reservation process.
If a resident wishes to designate as a roommate a student who is not currently 
living in the residence halls, that designated roommate must also pay a $100 
housing deposit. Those students not currently living in university housing who 
wish to reserve a room must come to the Housing Office in Morewood Gardens 
to pick up a deposit slip before they make their deposit.
Specific information on the Room Reservation process and information on dates, 
days, times will be distributed in a brochure the week of February 7. See your RA 
if you have not received this information. Additional copies of this brochure will 
also be available in the Housing Office.
It is important to note that all room reservations are for the entire academic year. 
Students who reserve rooms in university housing must sign a two-semester 
housing license agreement for that space. They will not be able to break their 
contracts, move off campus and receive a refund of the room rate.
Students who are considering moving off campus For the 1994-95 year can start 
their search with the Off-Campus Community Housing Coordinator, Norma 
Shaw, whose office is located in Morewood Gardens, across From the Housing/ 
Residence Life Office.
If i/on have an1/ questions, please feel free to contact the 
Housing/Residence Life Office at xS-2139.

---------------------------------------------------

1
Rl. RC6aC8 K dC68.Ui. t.ssg8 K O b.46PC6u DWWDD
Volleyball hammers opposition
Sophomore coaches club to spring success
CAROLYN SKARADA
tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The mens volleyball club trav,|ed to Frostburg, Maryland on 
junday, January 30, for a sucssful day of tournament play.
Hosting team Frostburg, along 
O'th Franklin and Marshall 
icademy, Shippensburg Univerjty, and California University of 
madeupthetoumamentplay. 
CMU had an amazing day, fin
ishing 8-4 overall and in second 
behind California UniverjtyofPa. who theytrounced twice 
filier in the tournament. We 
ihouldve beaten California in the 
Inals, sophomore 
:oach Chris Rotelli 
.. Game scores for 
these games were 11- 
3,9-11, 9-11.
California was de
tested in the semi-finals by hosting team 
Frostburg, who ended 
iipin first place. Semi
rounds started 
out in CMUs favor 
when they were victo
rious over Shippen
sburg 15-7.
Changing the line
up for CMU was no 
problem for junior 
Walt Miller, who nor
mally starts as outside 
hitter/blocker buttemporarily took the place of sopho
more Justin LaPaglia in the 
middle hitter/blocker position. 
LaPaglia was unable to make the 
tournament due to a prior com
mitment.
'Walt did a great job 
transitioning into middle [posi
tion], Rotelli said. Junior John 
(Nate) Heavey took Millers place 
on the outside.
Heavey took charge of the out
side with a grand total of 31 kills 
and 19 digs in the first tourna
ment hes played in since being 
injured early in the season.
'Senior John Borger, pumped 
up and ready to play, proved it 
out there on the court by racking 
up 42 kills and 20 digs. He was 
playing out of his mind, Rotelli 
said, impressed with his perfor
mance.
pernor Ed Pyo executed well on 
the attack line with 38 kills, the 
second highest number for the 
team. Miller pulled in 18 blocks, 
all for points, in his middle blocker 
debut.
i Playing all but three of the 12 
games of the tournament, sopho
more Rob Gannon, starting set
ter for CMU, totalled 97 assists. 
Second setter sophomore Dwight 
Lee got some playing time when 
Gannon was off the court.
Lee will be a key asset for CMU, 
replacing Gannon in the 12-team 
Penn State tournament.
As for serving, Miller had six 
aces, a remarkably high number 
for competition on this level. 
CMUs strong serve receiver
Borger, starter outside hitter for 
CMU. The scores for the two 
games against Penn State were 
extremely close: 15-12 and 15- 
16.
We picked it up against 
Gannon [their opponent], Borger
didnt get aced once the entire stated, referring to the third 
day. match ofthe tournament. It was
Im enjoying [coaching] a great our best match of the day.
deal, Rotelli said. I do miss play
ing, but Im pretty content to 
coach right now.
With previous experience 
coaching both sexes, he explained 
that there are bonuses in both 
situations.
CMU split against Gannon, los
ing the first game 13-15, but com
ing back to win the second with a 
victorious 15-6 score.
At this point we knew we were 
out, mathematically, Borger 
said. They did some substituting
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
them as guys or girls, I treat 
them as athletes, Rotelli said.
But you have to deal with them 
differently. Coaching the mens 
team at CMU has been beyond forth a strong defensive effort 
teaching the basic offenses/de- throughout the entire tournafenses; its been a matter of run- ment.
ning complicated plays and try- The passing was horrid in the 
ing new strategies. beginningoftheday,Borgersaid
Although Rotelli misses being to sympathize with Lee, who had 
in the action on the court, he to set all those bad passes. Borger 
would not consider a player/coach was disappointed with the condirole because it is difficult to sepa- tions of the gym at Penn State, 
rate the two. Behrend. The playing area was
Over this past weekend, CMU very cramped and was poorly lit. 
traveled to Penn State at Behrend The club will have its firsthome 
up in Erie, Pa. The tournament match of the year on Saturday,
wasnt quite as triumphant as 
their last, but the team was miss
ing some key players.
The score overall was 3-5 for 
CMU. Things started off really 
slow, especially since they had to 
referee the game preceeding 
theirs as soon as they arrived 
after a long drive.
In pool play, the first match of 
the day was split. CMU lost the
at these tournaments is two 
games up to 15 points are played, 
not the usual best of three or five 
games up to 15 points.
The Penn State team was fairly 
good, according to senior John
The 10th Annual Pittsburgh High Technology Council 
and the Carnegie Mellon Career Center
Technology Job Fair
It's your opportunity to speak with the region's leaders representing the following industries:
Engineering
Architecture and Construction 
Computer Science' 
Telecommunications
Test and Measurement 
Biotechnology 
Environment/Energy 
Professional Services
Tuesday, February 8,1994
10:00 AM-4:00 PM
Skibo Ballroom
For information on participating employers, 
please visit the Career Center (WH19) 
or check the bboard (official.career-center).
Tartans hold off Brandis, 78-72
BASKETBALL, from page 9
entire game as they led wire to 
wire and were up by as many as 
18 points with 7:55 left to play. 
The pace of the game was also 
clear after the first half as the 
Tartans led 33 to 22.
Brandis came back to make 
a game out of it as they went on 
a 17-6 tear to cut the lead to 
69-62 with 1:32 left in the game, 
but the Tartans cooled 
Brandis fire by shooting eight 
for 12 from the free throw line
to seal the win.
The Tartans were led in scor
ing by Bodnar who tied his career 
high, set last week against the 
University of Chicago, with 16 
points. Bodnar was followed by 
Byrne and Connors who had 13 
points apiece, and were paced by 
seniors Mike Hosni and Rony 
Johns, and Dragisich who had 
11, nine, and eight points respec
tively. Dragisichs eight points 
gave him 1,156 career points, 
which puts him at sixth on the
CMU all time scoring list.
The win improvedCMU 
record to 7-12 overall and 5-5 
in the UAA.
The Tartans play their next 
two games at home this week
end: against Washington Uni. versit.v of St. Louis and the 
University of Chicago.
The Tartans play Thiel Col
lege and Emory University the 
following weekend and end the 
year againstRochester on Feb
ruary 26.
I used to say that I dont treat to give other teammates playing
time.
Freshman John 
Warwick subb ed into 
the middle hitter/ 
blocker position.
Also, senior Eu
gene Shon got some 
playing time as out
side hitter.
Lee was main set
ter for the entire day, 
replacing Gannon 
who was unable to 
attend the tourna
ment. Playing as the 
opposite hitter in a 
51 offense was se
nior Todd Symonds.
Borger ledtheteam 
with25 kills, followed 
closely by Pyo with 
22 kills, and Heavy with 19.
Defensively, LaPaglia played 
exceptionally well with 15 solid 
blocks. In addition, Heavy put
SPORTS IN SEASON
BASKETBALL
Commissioners:
Majors: Dave Ekera, x2-3922; 
Intermediate: Pat Leach, x2- 
2538; Minors: Jim Saxon, x2- 
3872; Women Only: Trish Will
iams, X2-2609.
Schedules are out, and can be 
picked up at the IM Office, or 
downloaded off the official.athletac-dept-news bboard on e-mail. 
Team standings are posted on 
the IM Bulletin Board outside 
the IM office. The Women Only 
schedule has been revised and is 
now available. There is a new 
division for Intermediates with 
the late entries. That schedule is 
available now also.
FACULTY/GRAD
VOLLEYBALL
Commissioner: Chris Paredis, 
X8-7121
Matches began yesterday at 10 
am. Games played in February 
will be played in the small gym 
and games played after March 1 
will be played in the main gym. 
There are 30 teams competing
IM News
this year. Volleyball equipment 
will be stored in Thistle Hall.
PINOCHLE
Commissioner; Dave Ekem, x2- 
3922
Schedules will be available next 
week.
FLOOR HOCKEY
Commissioners:
Majors: Dave Ekern, x2-3922; 
Minors: Jim Saxon, x2-3872, and 
Pat Leach, x2-2538; Women Only: 
Trish Williams, x2-2609
Please play all matches as 
scheduled. Schedules are avail
able in the IM Office. Standings 
are posted on the IM Bulletin 
Board outside the office. Games 
began last Tuesday.
SPORTS COMING UP
WRESTLING
There is still no commissioner 
and no tournament date. More 
information will be available in 
the near future.
WATER BASKETBALL
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2-
3922
Entries are due Thursday, Feb
ruary 17, by 4:30 pm in the IM 
Office. A practice schedule will 
be posted on the IM Bulletin 
Board. The certified lifeguard will 
be Denise Fenwick, x2-2581.
TEAM & CO-REC 
BADMINTON
There is no commissioner at 
this time. Entries are due Thurs
day, March 3, by 4:30 pm in the 
IM Office.
3-ON-3 BASKETBALL 
FOUL SHOOTING 
THREE-POINT 
SHOOTOUT
Entries for these three sports 
are due March 3 by 4:30 pm in the 
IM Office. There is no commis
sioner as yet for any of them.
BUSINESS
Board meetings will be held 
according to the schedule.
Compiled by 
ERIC STRAUSS 
Information submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
beginning at 6:30 pm in the main 
gym at Skibo Gymnasium. The 
team will take on Gannon Uni
versity again.
The next day, CMU will travel 
to Indiana University of Pa. for 
another meet. The next week
end, they will return to IUP for a 
tournament.
These matches are Eastern In
tercollegiate Volleyball Associafirst 8-15, but won the second tion matches. The EIVA is the 
15-12. The way pool play works league the club will be joining
next season.
This season, the clubs matches 
count as league games for their 
opponents, but not for CMU. The 
results will be used next year to 
help determine seedings for CMU.
And on the eighth day God
created RUGBY ...
then
promptly 
changed 
his mind.
New players welcome!
\
No experience necessary!
FIRST PRACTICE OF CMU RUGBYS SPRING SEASON
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12
l:OOPM
MEET NEAR THE CLOCK
i

---------------------------------------------------

/
Political Speakers Forum Board
Presents:
Nationally Known Economist
Dr. Walter Williams
"The Role of Government in a Free Society"
February 15, 7:30 p.m. 
Skibo Ballroom
Dr. Williams is a nationally known syndicated 
columnist. His articles have appeared in The 
American Spectator, Newsweek, Reason, Na
tional Review and The Conservative Chronicle. 
He has been featured on numerous radio and television shows, including appearances on 
Crossfire, Face the Nation, Larry King, Nightline, 
Milton Friedman's Free to Choose, William F. 
Buckley's Firing Line, and Rush Limbaugh's 
Radio Show
Sponsored by: CMU Political Speakers Forum Board, Young America's Foundation, CMU College Republicans 
Funded by your Student Activities Fee
WRCT 88.3fm Spring 1994 Schedule
y Sundayiff!
Metal By Request
Int'l House of Music
Jitney Soup
with John 
Jazz, Blues, Rock
Eclectics Anonymous
with Ignatios 
Jazz, Blues, International, Classical
Diesel Power
f with 1st
Punk, Indie Rock
Blind Pedestrian
with Tania 
Jazz
Inflatable Volkswagen
Eat Some PasteAlternative Rock
f Rock, Jazz, Blues, InternationalRadioZine
News/Room for a View
Metaiated Flesh
with Sean 
Metal
Earth Beat
with Timothy 
Folk, International
Sunburst & Snowblind
Funerary Rites
with Brian 
Techno
with Michael 
MetalDisease Transmission
Metal By Request
with Stucco Toast 
Experimental, Oddities
Midnight
1:00 am 
2:00 an 
3:00 am 
4:00 am 
5:00 am 
6:00 am 
7:00 am 
8:00 am 
9:00 am 
10:00 am i 
11:00 
Noon 
1:00 pm j 
2:00 pu
3:00 pm 
4:00 pm 
5:00 pm 
6:00 pm 
7:00 pm
8:00 pm
9:00 pm 
10:00 pi" 
11:00 p 
Midnight

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Lately, we haven't been getting submissions.
Thats nothing new for
Dossier; its been happening for the four years 
which Ive been here. I
guess the problem is the reasons we do not receive 
submissions. I will
bring up these concerns, in order of importance, 
and try to dispell any 
anxiety our potential submittors may be
experiencing. the way I wrote it." or, in the1) statement: My poetry will not Look like
case of fiction writers, What I write will be illegible after the designers 
get to it.  (Often times this complaint is voice by readers as well) 
Response: This magazine is dedicated to both literature and
11 design. When you were writing, the designers did not look over 
your
shoulder and suggest that you change a word or punctuation. We 
will
include any wishes you have for your piece with the instructions 
to the
design staff. If you have any complaints about how things turn 
out, send
inter-campus mail to Ryan J. McGinness, do the Tartan.
2) Statement: "No one told me that my work was not going to
be
included in the next issue. 
Response: We at Dossier have an extremely liberal policy for 
accepting work, i.e. you give it to us, we print it. There are some 
rare exceptions.
If you hand in something which is demeaning to the opposite sex, people of another color, people of other religious
gerry deseve, literary edrtor
Response: Well take anything, of any lengthwith almost any subject matter (see above). If you think you might 
be embarassed by ivhat youve written, well slap'a pseudonym on it (like "Aimee Beale or, if its really good, Gerry 
DeSeve), or you can pick your own. We are here
to please. Dont make Him (Andy Sproule, Tartan Editor-in-Chief) take us home.
, r1".................It is easier to fake intelligence than virginity. 
Sir Alexander King 
aimee beal, literary editor
a rubbing of one object against another, conflict, 
as because of differing opinions, the resistance to 
motion of surfaces that touch.
ryan j. mcginness, design editor

---------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS
4dossier^
An$B3q o$RA'f'V 'fB $n
issue\
cover Photography: Tim Bahash
Design: Ryan J. McGinness
A Second Coming
Design: Jon Lyness 
Words: Rebecca Livingston
3 19B4 Dossier Calendar
Jan.-June: Ryan J. McGinness 
July-Dee.: Brett Snyder
P Photography: Tim Bahash
Call for Submissions
Menu
Design: John Ferris 
Words: Micki Kochanskyj
Do-It-Yourself Design
The Invention of Gems 
Design: Jean Koeppel 
Words: Aimee Beal

---------------------------------------------------

notvurades.
Hell get to watch 
sinjirstdmnd, 
won't he expected 
to diejor someone else.
talked to Jesus
the other day
and He said 
He's not coming 
backjor the 
Resurrection.
Jesus isoirw 
to Las Vegas 
to replace 
the Elvis acts, 
which in? (jettyHe's sorry 
to disappoint 
His Followers 
but He Im
really old now anyhow.
He'll peijonn two 
shows a day, 
three on Saturdays, 
and hell have 
Sundays ojj.
Hell siiifj and dance 
and do that walk' 
on-water routine
anotherm
elsewlzwnere.
Its at a place
where theu dont 
mil people to crosses, 
but drink vodka 
on the rocks 
ifistead pj'wine 
and die women
ana over.

---------------------------------------------------

. 0*
pageletter

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

ru a
Su.ruia.ij/ 9ito.n<iaij/ tJocALaip ^O ecLtreAa.ij/ ij xu/iAclcuj/ SnAjcu^ SaAivuLcuj/
101112
13 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

we1

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

9
COev
?
Ocv
cv

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

*
{tfs

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

pfg*letter

---------------------------------------------------

[all wr 
i Skibo '
ftd telephone number\ or e.mail 
ddress. Or submit andQymously. 
\ Or place in the dossier folder in 
the Tartan Server.
PfSletter

---------------------------------------------------

Menu
The day my father said yes, 
brown rice again.
The correct procedure for the gutting of pigs, page 78.
Whacking the tree to bring down the apples.
Churn until butter comes
Permit gas to escape
The sixteen gallons of plum wine we made 
last autumn sitting on the dresser, getting dusty.
Spaghetti on Tuesdays.
Less spaghetti on Wednesdays.
A Key. to the Psilocybin Mushroom,
$5.00 postpaid from
The Church of the One Semon
Lemon Grove, California.
Contains magic mushroom information, 
not found in normal mushroom guides.
Omlette with mushrooms 
Spaghetti with mushrooms 
Com Flakes with mushrooms
meat
Notes on soapmaking, page 108 at the back, with 
How To Make Soap From Ashes
Brown rice again 
Brown rice again.
Tibetan Barley Bread, page 14.
Micki Kochanskyj
P?'letter

---------------------------------------------------

Do-It-Yourself Design 
By Ryan J. McGinness
Step 1: Receive copy. This is the set of words you are to 
use in your design piece. Dont worry about writing anything 
yourselfwork with someone elses ideas. (Note: Do not 
readhighly unnecessary as your audience will not read the 
final piece.)
Step 2: Select a typeface. A number of faces already exist.
If none fancy you, create your ownits quite easy.
Try to use something contemporary and flashy. The kids seem 
to like this. Legibility is no longer a factor in todays visual 
communication pieces, so go for it!
Step 3: Image selection. Not entirely necessary, but can 
significantly increase the visual richness (not communication) 
of your piece. This can be an illustration, diagram, photograph, 
or even quirky clip-art will do. Appropriated images work 
well as they are easily accessible, and most importantly, cheap!
Step 4: Mix it all up in your favorite desktop publishing program. 
Anything goes. The less educated you are, the more avant-garde 
your final piece will be. A good source of ideas is design magazines. 
Many a good idea can be gotten from other people.
Step 5: Send copies to as many competitions and design annuals 
as possible. The more the better, and your chances for fame and 
fortune will significantly increase. And remember, chicks are 
always on the lookout for todays hot young designers!

---------------------------------------------------

The Invention of Gems
Crouching, we have wriggled 
even out of our cotton underwear 
and we clutch at shale ledges 
as the waves toy with our raw 
sense of balance. We don't know
- of the link between the tide 
and the moon, or the pull 
if Stream. We don't know 
what happens to boats 
ch sink beyond the horizon, 
but we know what lives in the holes 
in the mud; we dig with our fingers 
through the black salt flats 
and touch the shells of clams 
before they push out of reach. 
Squatting, we piss in a tidepool, 
watch our hot yellow streams spread 
across polyps, barnacles 
and tiny clusters of mussels 
which shutter and snap shut.
Brine shrimp futter 
in fascinating panic to the farthest 
crevasses of their bowl-shaped 
universe. We stir the water 
with broken clamshells until 
it looks cUar. Some barnacles open 
to send out their skeleton hands, 
and some don 't. We drop a fistful 
of sand on an open mussel. 
When we return there will be pearls.
Aimee Beal
PWletter

---------------------------------------------------

7 W
Ja.

---------------------------------------------------

Eating Disorders Awareness Week 
puts food into proper perspective
Mark Eggert/ Tartan Art Co-Editor
Volume 88, Issue 16The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania7 February 1994
Obsessions with weight affect performance
By RHONDA STRUMINGER
|artan Staffwriter
Im here because looking in 
the mirror became too difficult 
I saw a fat, unattractive person 
[staring back at me. .
Well, Im only here because I 
want to compete in my sport  
-'they wont let me unless I put on 
weight and come here to talk to 
you. As an athlete I have to move 
quickly and too much weight is 
dead weight  I need to get the 
weight off to become more com
petitive.
Im here because I lost control 
of my body when I started diet
ing. I became obsessed with my 
weight, became depressed, and 
frequently overate.
Based on real stories of people 
who have struggled with eating 
disorders, comments like these 
may be heard at group support 
meetings for recovering anorexic 
or bulimic patients and compul
sive eaters.
Though faced with the same 
problems any addict has when 
overcoming their illness, eating 
disorder sufferers cannot avoid 
their addiction; food is not some
thing you can ever stay away 
from. It becomes an obsession.
Subsequently, relapse preven
tion is a call to action. It chal
lenges a person to acquire suffi
cient knowledge, sufficient tools, 
and sufficient confidence in her
self [or himselfj to know that... 
she [or he] will be able to get back 
on track when she [or he] is in 
trouble....
Relapse preventionis [also] not 
necessarily something that some
one can implement alone, writes 
Regina Santelli, PhD in a pam
phlet. Thus, the role of family 
and friends in a sufferers recov
ery is very important.
According to Carol Poniewaz, a 
certified registered nurse at 
Carnegie Mellon who is on the 
Board of Directors of the Penn
sylvania Educational Networkfor 
Eating Disorders (PENED), the 
first signs of an eating disorder 
are obsession with weight and 
body image ... the person eats to 
the point of riot seeing things 
realistically.... Some anorexics 
can be 69 pounds  we see a 
skeleton, but they see fat.
The images we have of our
selves often develop when we are 
young. In sixth grade/middle 
school, children become very cruel
and pick on 
people merci
lessly... explained 
Poniewaz.
If you are always the biggest 
and the fattest in the class, you 
know it not only by your own eyes 
but through others. This is fur
ther compounded with the cul
tural images of beauty we are 
surrounded with in the media.
Anita Sinicrope, an adminis
trative specialist with the COPE 
(Center for Overcoming Problem 
Eating) team and director of 
PENED, has written about the 
impact society has on eating dis
orders.
Sinicrope explains that the 
thin bodies of todays models, 
stars, and athletes represent a 
new trend in the vision of the 
perfect woman. Museums are 
filled with artifacts depicting 
ancient women whose full fig
ures reflect the standards of 
beauty in their times....
In a description of an in-pa
tient treatment program at 
COPE, Sinicrope focuses on the 
messages transmitted by society, 
spouses, and even ourselves.
Through reading assignments 
and discussions, patients will 
examine... [social] messages that 
may contribute to the develop
ment of eating disorders.... In
creased knowledge about a 
healthy weight has contributed 
to establishing todays weight 
standards.
But it is sometimes forgotten
Carnegie Mellons Counseling 
Center criteria, after figuring out 
who the best person is to even 
approach the person suffering 
with the disease, it is best to pick 
a time when there is both time 
and calmness.
If it is apparent that this is 
causingyou pain, it will be harder 
for her [or him] to open up....
People can get hostile when 
accused of having an eating 
disorder. Many will flatly 
deny it; others will angrily 
tell you to mind your own 
business.
Forget accusations, 
confrontations, and pleas 
to change. These will 
only shut down lines of 
communication. A per
son who does not ac
knowledge his/her prob
lem will be unapproach
able. Helping people 
who do not see the 
need to help them
selves can breed
even anger for 
friends and 
family. The
that 
these stan
dards must be 
adjusted for each 
individual.
Hereditary traits, 
body frame, and other fac
tors, some of which may be 
out of the womans control, also 
must be considered.
Poniewaz believes that there 
has to be some reason why some 
people fall into it and some dont. 
Everyone has their own way of 
coping with stresssome people 
smoke, do drugs, drink  I just 
think this is one of those.... In 
many ways it [eating disorders] 
is a control issue  [sufferers] 
may reach a point where eating is 
the only thing they can control. 
Poniewaz first got involved with 
eating disorders when her daugh
ter, at age 12, lost 50 pounds in 
two months. It was a real big 
shock ... we are not taught a lot 
about it in nursing school and not 
a lot of doctors know a lot about 
it... but I knew enough to know 
that there was a problem.
When first approaching some
one you suspect of having an eat
ing disorder, there are some sug
gested guidelines. According to
best 
thing to 
do is to be 
honest, 
direct and 
compas
sionate ....
Do not ... 
make her [or 
him] confess.
Another eat
ing disorder 
pamphlet by the 
American College 
Health Associa
tion urges you to 
realize that you 
may be rejected.
People with eating disorders of
ten deny their problem, because 
they are afraid to admit theyre
out of control.
After all, it usually starts with 
an innocent diet similar to what 
most young women put them
selves on.
Denial seems to be the stron
gest element of the illness. 
Poniewaz explained that denial 
and deception are really just part 
of the illness.
When becoming addicted to los
ing weight, you start to only see 
fat and think that if you can keep 
going youll look better and bet
ter. You dont really think that 
you have a problem. Reality be
comes so
distorted-------------------------------
that they 
just arent 
able to see 
things rea 1 i s t i - 
cally 
They first____________________
have de- I 
nial and
then think that they dont need 
any help to conquer their addic
tion.... You just have to let it go 
until it becomes life threatening 
 when they have to get treat
ment or theyre going to die.
Unfortunately, the solution 
seems so easy: just get the person 
to eat more or to eat less. How
ever, it is just not that simple. 
The images of food are too dis
torted and the deception becomes 
a barrier.
According to Poniewaz, many 
who suffer are described by those 
who try to help them as liars. 
This [deception] is not the way 
the person really is, it is part of 
the illness. They become liars 
about everything, because they 
lie to cover. You cant argue with 
them about how they look. They 
dont see what you see.
Eating disorders are often 
blamed on self-esteem issues, but 
one CMU student who suffered 
from anorexia last year explained 
that everyone has some underly
ing problem and self-esteem is 
not necessarily it. I felt that ev
erything always had to be okay, 
good in my life. I always did too 
much, I always felt like I had to 
be productive and active. For me, 
there was no relying on other 
people, although I didnt mind 
helping others.
For her, anorexia was not worth 
the pain it caused herself, family, 
and friends.
You are not interested in doing other things, because you are 
so obsessed and concerned with 
what you eat. I now know that 
you eat to do other things, you eat 
to live, thats all. Whats impor
tant is the here and now, today.... 
When I wake up its not what am 
I going to eat today?its who will 
I see? What will I do? Where will 
I go? 
While she was in therapy, she 
remembers what one therapist 
told her that meant something: 
When you die, on your tombstone 
it is not going to say this person 
weighed XX pounds.
When you die, on your tomb
stone it is not going to say this 
person weighed XX pounds.
She then began to realize how 
life threatening the disease can 
be, and she really wanted to get 
better for health, for my life.
Eating Disorders Awareness 
Week, February 7-13, offers four 
opportunities for the Carnegie 
Mellon campus to become more 
aware of these diseases which 
affect both men and women (the 
ratio of men to women is one to 
nine) between the ages of 13 and 
25.
The week starts on Thursday 
with a talk in the Morewood rec
reation room by registered dieti
tian, Leslie Bonci, and ends with 
an exercise in fitness boxing 
classes given by Marylou Moore, 
a five time Pa State champion in 
kick boxing.
Although CMU lacks a health 
educator, there is a Health Edu
cation team which sponsors peer 
support group sessions (x8-2157). 
There is also an electronic bulle
tin board to contact others suffer
ing from eating disorders.
Poniewaz is very concerned and 
willing to help. She can be 
reached at x8-2157. If you want 
off-campus support, Western Psy
chiatric Institute offers Outpa
tient (624-5420) and Inpatient 
(624-0027) programs as does the 
St. Francis Medical Center (622- 
4591).
PENED (922-5922) is also 
available for support groups, edu
cation, newsletters, and referrals.
Performance artist enlightens audience
By SHANNON GIBNEY
Tartan Staffwriter
Who would ever think that chocolate mousse, french fries, and 
hamburgers could cause so much turmoil in the lives of so many 
People, especially young women? Food should be a source of joy and 
enjoyment for all of us, but for those with eating disorders, it can be 
the representation of all that is ugly and unattractive in their lives. 
Abstaining from eating is often the manifestation of low self-esteem 
and a lost sense of self for many young women, as actress and 
storyteller Alicia Quintano demonstrated through her funny and 
insightful performance Friday night. Quintano, an actress from 
Boston, travels across the country spreading her tales of life, love, 
and food. Her one woman show kicked off Eating Disorders Week 
here at CMU.
Quintanos story, aptly titled Escape From Fosdick, cronicled the
actress personal fight with anorexia nervosa; her relationship with 
a young man who was unfortunate enough to be named Fosdick; her 
struggle to be heard in a warring household; as well as her search for 
identity. The content and presentation of Quintanos performance 
were engaging; she provided anew perspective on both the dominant 
and destructive effects of eating disorders. She approached the food 
issue as it appears in all of our lives: intermixed with many other 
events and issues of family, friendship, and love.
Quintanos story begins during the summer when she was 13. In 
the course of this particular summer, her sister and mother argued 
fiercely with each other. The audience was introduced to the idea of 
Quintanos loss of identity, amidst the angry shouting and continous 
battling of her family. Quintano made it clear that she wasthe good 
child who always deferred to what both her mother and sister 
wanted, thus starting a cycle of postponing her own needs and
Please see EATING, page L2
>rum on EatR RR RRD RDan nani ni lanosaTH y HEARN
T

---------------------------------------------------

L2Rl. RC6aC8 K dC68.Ui. t.ssg8 K O b.46PC6u DWW
Dial V for violence
Horror Stories
by Tom Harper
One fine day I was driving to 
my Reserve unit for drill when I 
hit yet another infamous Pitts
burgh traffic jam on the Parkway 
East. That wasnt the problem. I 
spent about an hour crawling inch 
by inch to the Fort Pitt tunnel. 
Since I left early, that wasnt the 
problem either. I got caught in 
yet another traffic jam going back 
home that same day. That still 
wasnt the problem. The problem 
was that this guy, in a brand new 
Jeep Cherokee came within an 
inch of rear-ending me because 
he was yakkin away on his car 
phone. I wanted to get out of my 
own car, yank him out of said 
Cherokee, and introduce his face 
to the asphalt a few times, but by 
the time I got around to resolving 
to do that, the traffic jam had 
pretty much lessened.
Ahhhh, the cellular phone, the 
car phone, and the beeper  in 
the 80s, the To Have And To 
Have More decade, they were 
the in thing, a status symbol, a 
necessity for people with power 
suits and power ties to schedule 
power lunches with powerful 
people.Now, in the 90s, the Down 
To Earth decade, and the only 
power being on Home Improve
ment, these instruments have 
become (at least to me) the most 
annoying things in the entire
world.
Everyone has heard about those 
statistics where the accident was 
caused by someone who was too 
engrossed in his car phone to ac
tually concentrate on trying not 
to slam into somebody. Hell, I 
was almost a statistic. (I did man
age to give that pencil-neck a 
really mean look in my rear view 
mirror before I had to move along).
Personally, I wouldnt want to 
be bothered while Im driving by 
someone who thinks the ultimate 
business catastrophe of my (and 
his) life has to happen while Im 
on a busy highway. What does he 
expect me to domake a U-tum 
in the middle of an incredibly 
busy road? Yeesh, leave me alone.
Sure, they have car phones on 
TV shows, but THEYRE NOT 
REALLY DRIVING A CAR!!!!!! 
Im sure you can tell the generic 
background from real-life back
grounds.
On campus, I always see the 
odd faculty member (sometimes 
even students!) whip out the ol 
cellular phone, slow down to a 
step every four seconds, and just 
start yakkin away, regardless of 
whos around them (or BEHIND 
them like I usually am!) and just 
bask in the glow of having a cellu
lar phone. Its like theres this 
aura around them  I have a 
cellular phone! See me talk into 
my cellular phone! Dont you wish 
you had a cellular phone, too? I 
LOVE my cellular phone! Well, 
I for one DONT love your cellular 
phone, and is there a reason why 
you had to start a ridiculous con
versation while there are 1,000 
people around us, and I cant get 
around you, and youre making 
me late for class, you snob!
And then, of course, the 
beeper. An innocent little name, 
the beeper. The function of 
the said beeper is, by the name, 
to emit a beep. What this 
beep signals is that someone 
is in dire need to talk with the 
holder of said beeper.
Isnt this why answering ma
chines were invented? Those 
things also beep when some
body has an urgent need to talk 
to you, and most answeringmachines are cheaper than beep
ers, so whats the point of hav
ing a beeper? I can understand 
why doctors have beepers  
lives depend on it. I dont un
derstand why college students 
have beepers. Whats the point?
Other than having it go off in 
the middle of class and all of a 
sudden theres that aura again
 theyre immediatately 
bathed in light and attention.
Then this ethereal voice says: 
I have a beeper. Hear my 
beeper beep happily away. I 
am popular. So many people 
need to talk to me right now. 
Dont you wish you were as 
popular as I am? Dont you wish 
you had a beeper, too? Ill tell 
you what I wish I had  a 
heavy blunt instrument to de
stroy that irritating little piece 
of wiring and silicon.
Tom Harper, often unreach
able MCS freshman, claims 
that if anybody wanted to talk 
to him that bad they'd send him 
email (at th2n of course), call 
him, skywrite, or slide some
thing under his door. Heaven 
forbid actually going up to him 
and saying something face to 
face.
Eating disorders destroy lives
EATING, from page LI
identity. This harmful pattern showed itself more 
clearly when she first began having eating prob
lems at age 14. At this time she stood five feet two 
inches tall, and weighed only 68 pounds.
Quintano desired a lifestyle that was on a higher 
plane of existence, one that transcended food and 
sex. She said, I believed that I was becoming all 
spirit, and I was. I had stopped eating, telling 
myself that I did not have time. But, once again, 
she started thinking about food. She ate coleslaw, 
cottage cheese, and pickle relish in two pound 
containers in the safety of her bedroom. After a 
friend revealed her own eating disorder to Quintano, 
her once again resorted to fasting. I was so thin 
that you could almost see my bones through my 
skin. The only thing I had left, the only thing I had 
for myself, was my relationship with Fosdick, said 
Quintano. So she and Fosdick moved to New York 
City. Quintano, once again, began to eat, and eat 
lots. Androgony was in at the time, and thus her 
vastly accelerated calorie intake threatened the
An Evening of Fine Entertainment and Music
a romantic evening or fun for a group of friends!
The Pittsburgh Athletic Association 
Friday Feb 11, 1994 
7:30 pm 
$10 per person
Fifth Ave
Tickets can be purchased until
Wednesday at noon at 
The Alumni Association
Cathedral 
of Learning
5017 Forbes Ave 
Shuttle service is available 
(from Skibo starting at 6:45-7:30 and after dinner)
You choose the dinner when you purchase tickets
Roast Beef
Chicken Kiev
Chicken Cordon Bleu
Princess Chicken
Vegetarian
Tossed Salad, Rice and Potatoes, and White Chocolate Mousse Cake 
seating is in arrangements of 2, 4, and 8
Men expose legs
Alien in Residence
by Micki Kochanskyj
I noticed it immediately. The 
sun was providing more 
than just light this 
winters day; it was pro
viding heat. OK, not much 
heat, but through my sev
eral layers I was warm. 
Waiting for the shuttle 
was not a life-threatening 
situation. I forgot my 
pressing homework as
signments, my overdue 
rent (its February? Al
ready??), the stress of tact
fully combining several 
sets of parents in appro
priate graduation accom
modations, everything.
What I did notice was that 
the grass was somewhat 
green, that the birds would 
soon be returning from 
southern climes, that I was in 
fact in a sickeningly good mood. 
When I reached campus, I saw 
that I wasnt alone. Everyone 
was in a good mood.
Valentine Roses
But the overwhelming feeling 
of well-being is not the best thing 
about an unexpected sunny day. 
Its the deluge ofnakedmale legs. 
Everywhere. If theres one thing 
I love about this country, its the 
willingness of men to wear shorts. 
In England, a man would rather 
cut his legs off than expose them 
to the world. One peek and you 
would understand why; genera
tions of light deprivation have
Micki Kochanskyj/Tartan Staffwriter
rendered British legs a gleaming 
white, a white so bright its al
most blue. The fear of body-part 
exposure is so great among Brit
ish males that I fear it has be
come a part of the genetic mak. 
up, an ingrained part of the m 
tional identity. In many placs 
there remains the last vestige; 
an ancient school hazing rite > 
young boys being made to endu 
the miserable British climate j 
short pants until puberty hi| 
and hair begins to provide long 
for protection from the element 
Understandably, the Brits cai 
not comprehend why a grown m; 
anywhere would acti 
ally choose to go wit! 
out the lower half of lj 
pants. The easiest w: 
to spot a foreigner 
London is to watch fj 
men wearing shorts. 1! 
brother even went so t 
as to refuse to remot 
his long pants at tb 
beach, and accumulate 
a huge amount of sat 
in his pockets. So yn 
see, having been raise 
in this land of barewimps, it comes as a re 
elation to see so muj 
skin. It doesnt mattt 
that its February; tk 
suns out, and thats 
it takes. If you see n> 
around campus ogling, Im real 
appreciating the wonderful cii 
tural differences between tb 
country of my birth and my ne 
home. At least, thats my excus
Finest Quality 0^) JBOC
Long-Stem Red
Roses, gift-boxed nn7
with greens, W IS
baby s breath, Compare at *50 - S75
card, bow, fa Half-dozen....21.99
BLOOMING PLANTS. BOUQUETS, & OTHER GREAT GIFT IDEAS!PlantjFlpwer
I W A R EH (ft U 5 II
BLOOMFIELD: Uberty Ave. & 38th St.
caiu 681-3503
attainment of this dream because everything she 
ate went straight to her breasts. When I put on a 
turtleneck, I looked like I had six breasts. Con
vinced to do anything to make herself perfect, she 
started wearing bras that were one size too small 
to de-emphasize her weight. Two years after her 
move-in with Fosdick she met Lily, a woman in her 
office. They quickly became friends, and then rela
tionship comrades as well. Lily told Quintano that 
she should get out of the relationship. Eventually, 
Quintano did see the light and realized that her 
relationship with Fosdick was non-productive. She 
then broke up with him and moved in with Lily.
During the night that she and Lily moved in 
together, Quintano said simply, I was filled with 
the incredible joy of having spoken.
Sincfe then, Quintano has been recovering from 
anorexia nervosa. She has spread the message that 
Lily told her that auspicious night years ago, when 
she decided to discover who she was. She said, 
There is no true rescue until you learn to rescue 
yourself.
SKI
Spring Break 94
Collegiate Ski Week 
Mt. Sutton, Canada 
March 27 - April 1
only $199
 55 Slopes and Glades 
9 Lifts, 3,125 ft.
 10 miles from VT border
 5 Day Lift Ticket
 5 Nights Lodging 
(Mountainside Condos)
 5 Days Activities
Walk to Happy Hour every day! 
The legal drinking age is 18.
Group Leader Discounts 
Call Ski & Sand Travel
1-800-848-9545
IF YOU WANT TO GET FROM
STUDENT
PARKING
TO
FACULTY
PARKING
START HERE
Want to teach? Consider independent (private)-schools!
Over 450 independent schools have job openings every year and many seek the 
energy and diversity of recent graduates to fill their positions.
IES is the only non-profit teacher placement organization, and there is no 
charge to students!
For more information contact your career office or call
(800)257-5102
INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES  353 NASSAU ST.  PRINCETON. NJ 08540  (800) 257-5102 
_________________________________Email at TEACH I ES@AOL.COM_________________________________
classified
JOBSJJOUSING
Agents  No Experience. Company 
expanding  $12-18 hr. + bonuses. 
Send SASE for details to: International,1375 Coney Island Ave., Ste 427 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
Squirrel Hill couple seeks responsible 
sitter for 9-month-old baby, 10-30 
hours/week. Hours flexible. Call 683- 
8122.
Computer Science student or Grad to
work in Bookstore. Knowledge of books 
a must. Knowledge of Wordstock a plus. 
Must be able to work mornings to mid
afternoon. M - F. 421-4466. Ask for 
Mary Ellen.
WANTED
Townsend Booksellers.
We buy thousands of worthwhile books 
in all scholarly and technical subjects and 
the arts. Best prices paid or generous 
trade credit. Visit us for out-of-print, 
used and rare books. Open daily: 
Monday -Saturday, 11 am-6 pm,
Sunday 1-5pm. Near campus at 4612 
Henry St. (off S. Craig) 682-8030.
The Classifieds work for you! 
Send your ad today!
Summer sublet and fall rental. North 
Oakland furnished one bedroom and 
efficiency apartments. Close to campus. 
On campus shuttle bus route. Very clean 
and spotless. Spacious bookshelves. 
Roomy closets. Secure apartment 
buildings. From $230. Call 683-0776.
Comp, renovated 2 bedrm. apt. in the 
heart of Shadyside just one block from 
Walnut Street. Avail, immed. with all new 
amenities inc. central a/c, w/w, buzz in 
security, all new kitchen with new 
appliances, dishwasher & garbage 
disposal, laundry in building. $795.00+. 
E.S. Management 795-5845.
Big, Big Apartment! 2500 Sq. Ft. *5 
bedrooms, *2 large living rooms (22 ft. x 
17 ft.; 35 ft. x 14 ft.), *2 bathrooms, 
fully-equipped kitchen, *small office, 
separate dining room, sundeck, bus 
stop in front of house, garage (1 car) 
and 1 off-street parking space, free 
washer and dryer. Approx. 150 yards 
from CMU! Lovely, quiet street; very 
responsive landlords. Available May 16th, 
1994. Call 521-9441 after 8 pm. $1850 
plus g Sc e.
1/2 Block from CMU  Extremely large 
apartment. *3 bedrooms, living room 
(22 ft. x 17 ft.), dining room, * 2 full 
bathrooms, * fully-equipped kitchen with
dishwasher, * small office, private 
backyard, one-car garage and one offstreet parking space, free use of 
washer/dryer, very large storage 
facilities. Available May 16th, 1994. 
11400 plus g & e. Call 521-9441 after! 
pm.
JRAVEL
SPRING BREAK 1994 Cancn, Bahama 
Jamaica, Florida 6c Padre! 110 percent 
Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 
friends and your trip is free! TAKE A 
BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL 800-328-72!!
SPRING BREAK SALE! We have the 
hottest destinations for 1994! Jamaica, 
Cancn, Bahamas, S. Padre, Florida at 
the lowest adverstised prices. We always 
include the ultimate party package. 
Organize a small group and travel freeClassified Rates
1-20 words........$5 / week
21-50 words......$8/week
50-100 words..$10 / week
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Rl. RC6aC8 K dC68.Ui. t.ssg8 K O b.46PC6u DWWow
Career Week '94 
FEBRUARY 5-11
dC6..6 ,..SZ dq''AdR$q3
Museum holds memories
gy LAURA McCLURE
Tartan Contributing Editor
Deep in the recesses of the Holocaust Museum 
stands a rusted wrought iron gate inscribed with 
Nazi slogan, Work will set you free. These 
words, chilling in their simplicity, arrested the 
gaze of every entering prisoner of the 1939 Dachau 
concentration camp. Many of these victims were 
indeed later freed of their belongings, their valu
ables, their dignity, and their lives. 
h Surrounding the transplanted gate lie piles of 
suitcases still bearing the return addresses of the 
dead, rusted scissors mounded by the hundreds, 
and layers of crumpled shoes still bearing the 
personalities of their owners in their flaring style 
or solemn shade.
;: To think that six million of these personalities 
were snuffed out with deadly factory efficiency 
defies comprehension. And yet, that is the point of 
the Holocaust musuem: to provide a voice for the 
dead, who cannot speak, and a warning to the 
living, who must not forget.
Students who went on the cosponsored Resi
dence Life/Hillel trip to the newly opened Holo
caust Museum in Washington, DC, last Sunday 
went for a variety of reasons. They went to educate 
themselves, to remember relatives and victims,
and to reflect. The museum itself is designed to 
provoke all of these reactions. Passed unani
mously by Congress in 1980, the Holocaust 
Museum opened last year amidst national out
rage: 30 percent of American school children did 
not believe or could not comprehend that the 
Holocaust had ever occurred.
Walking through the museum, you can hardly 
deny the existence of its powerful artifacts. 
Videos play reels of medical experiments; ov
ens stand revealingly near autopsy tables. Chill
ingly, you can still smell the decay of the longforgotten shoes.
Perhaps the most poignant exhibit, however, 
lies on the fourth floor. Upon entering the room 
you are surrounded by pictures of wedding pho
tos, teenage outings to the beach, family por
traits, and candids covering the length of the 
walls. These are pictures just like the ones in 
your own family album. Specifically, these are 
the images of a Lithuanian community, one of 
many that was completely erased through Nazi 
racial hygeine.
On the subdued bus ride back to Pittsburgh, 
participants in the program contemplated the 
harsh reality of the exhibits that bombarded 
them overwhelmingly throughout the Holocaust 
Museum.
Engineers design Scrape Away
By TONYA RADO gain recognition both within The Scrape Away operates
tartan Features Co-Editor CMU community and beyond. in a way similar to existing 
The societys design, known as automobile technologies. The 
The Society of Hispanic Pro- Scrape Away, eliminates the remote enabled system will
* fessional Engineers (SHPE) at need to scrape ice and show from closely resemble the remote 
Carnegie Mellon submitted a a windshield. It was designed controlled devices for car 
design to the SHPE national specifically so that the user can alarms. Theheatingelementis 
offices last December, and their spend as little time as possible similar to that in present rear 
ieam was chosen as one of the being exposed to the hazardous window defoggers (both in the 
top 10 finalists in the competi- winter elements. Thegoalofthe material used for the heating 
: tion. teams design is to end the mun- element and the arrangement
The 1994 National Career dans task of window scraping, of the wires to operate the 
Conference of SHPE was held Mora said in his introduction of screen). The screen will also be 
in Austin, Texas starting, last the prsentation. The Scrape reflective on the windshield 
Wednesday, February 3. They Away is a retractable screen, side, thus allowing Scrape 
flew to Austin for free at 7 am containing a heating element, Away to be used as a sunWednesday and returned Sun- that will speed up the removal of screen in the summer. In utiday evening. Dean of Student ice from the front windshield of lizing these existing technoloAffairs Michael Murphy helped an automobile. This task can be gies, the Scrape Away deviceI
 cover the airline expenses, and operated manually, by remote, will not seem foreign or obthe provost sent a letter con- and by a timer device. The name struct driversperformance, 
gratulating them,. 'Scrape Away comes from this Many existing automobile
The design team consists of eliminationoftheneedtoscrape, technologies are incorporated 
sixmembers: Michael Borrero, as stated in the teams presenta- into the products overall dea sophomore chemical engi- tion packet. The origin of this : sign. Scrape. Away is marneering major; Andrew Flores, idea came from a team members ketable due to the ability to 
a freshman undeclared major; unforeseen encounter with snow install it into most vehicles, its 
sophomore mechanical engi- and ice on a daily basis. Coming interchangeability to operate 
neering major, Mario Hidalgo; from California, he never had to as a sunscreen and an ice re
freshman undeclared major, deal with snow and ice on his car. mover, and its simplicity of opElliotMora;andsophomoreme- He had seen others endure the eration. As for competition, 
chanical engineering major struggle of braving the early there are few existing products 
Jaime Morales. morning cold to scrape his wind- on the market. Some cars are
During the Conference, the shield, which inspired a number equipped with chemical deteam is required tomake a pre- of alternative ideas to scraping, icers or a metal flake system 
sentation of their proposed de- including periscoping jets of hot within the windshield to make 
sign, which will ultimately water and a heating pad that can : ice scraping easier, but they 
determine their national rank, be laid on the windshield. When dont eliminate the task altoThe organization was estab- these ideas were introduced to gether. Scrape Away encomlished last year, and in a short the design team, the Scrape passes all of these ideas into a 
; time, theyve made big steps to Away began to take shape. practical,user-fiiendly product.
Applying to Ph.D. and M.D./Ph.D. 
Programs in the Biological Sciences
{ Will be held On olumleu!Th PlasH!sT Ah RAASM
Z07Fe0Zkk7F '.M6.hlF.8ah
0Zkk7Fe/Zwk7F n.hhig8
t.ssg8 $8haiaPa. dg8M.6.81. 'ggF9 w6r bsgg6
I Faculty, graduate students, and seniors will discuss M.D., Ph.D. and M.D./Ph.D.
| programs, how to choose the best path, finding the right school, what is involved
I with the application process and more. Learn about the types of students these
I programs admit, how to successfully compete for admission, and what career 
I paths are open to graduates.
I Sponsored by the Department of Biological Sciences
I '(Please note the CORRECT date of this program is Wednesday, February 9  previous information 
s lndicating Thursday, February 10, was incorrect.)
Sex alters perceptions
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Personnel Manager
Why do women wear makeup, yet men dont? 
How does the cartoon character Joe Camel sell 
cigarettes? Why are ads for hard liquor so popular?
Believe it or not, the answer to all three ques
tions is the same: subliminal sexual messages. 
Wilson Bryan Key, an authority on subliminal 
seduction, discussed the secret ways that advertis
ers arouse the potential customers sexuality dur
ing his lecture Monday night 
in the Ballroom. The event 
was sponsored by AB Lec
tures.
Though the lecture was 
titled Subliminal Seduc
tion from his best-selling 
book of the same name, Keys 
lecture actually used con
cepts and examples from his 
latest book, The Age of Ma
nipulation: The CON in Con
fidence, The SIN in Sincere.
Before the lecture, Key 
warned that the lecture 
would consist of material of 
a sexually explicit nature.
During the lecture, Key 
used many examples from 
magazines, television, and 
art to show that the media puts information inside 
peoples heads that is invisible to them. Key said 
that this information is entered into the sublimi
nal subconscious.
Nobody knows how it works, but we do know 
what it does, said Key. He said that the customer 
is controlled to see only what is obvious, although 
the subconscious actually sees more, but the cus
tomer is not aware of it until it is pointed out.
Selective perception is the term Key used to 
describe what the viewer initially sees. The famil
iar vase or faces andold woman or young woman 
optical illusions are also clear examples of selective 
perception. An example that Key gave during the 
lecture examined the famous cigarette cartoon 
character, Joe Camel. He talked about the distinc
tive resemblance of Joe Camels face to a penis.
Then Key sidetracked in his lecture for a little bit 
to discuss clothing and makeup. He said that 
neckties were considered phallic symbols in the 
past.
In a similar vein, Queen Cleopatra of Egypt wore 
lip coloring and blush as a sign of sexual availabil
ity, according to Key. During sexual excitement, 
the female genitals become swollen and bright red 
or purple, and the facial cheeks flush. Lipstick, 
therefore, creates a symbolic vulva, and rouged 
cheeks symbolize sexual flush. Other examples 
that Key used in his lecture do not appear to be 
sexual in any way at first. One example is a 
television advertisement for Wrigleys Spearmint 
Gum. The 30-second commercial features a young
man and woman on a picnic. The man is playing 
around and almost causes the woman to drop the 
basket. The man then helps her keeip the basket 
from falling.
Here, the focal point of the audience is on the 
picnic basket  the figure. However, in the 
ground, the audience can see the mans hand 
reaching beneath the basket to pat the womens 
crotch. This action occurs for about five frames, in 
which there are 30 frames per second on film. 
Hysterically, in the final frame, Wriglev advises,
Get the Little Lift!
Other examples that Key used in the lecture 
included a variety of advertisements for wine and 
hard liquor. Though the picture of a bottle of wine 
and a glass of alcohol with ice seem harmless, Key 
pointed out that most of the advertisements are 
drawings instead of photographs, and that those 
ads had visible but hidden pictures of sexual 
scenes and genitalia drawn within the ice cubes or 
in the reflection of the glass through the alcohol.
Key concluded his lecture by showing some art
work with subliminal messages. His best example 
was Pablo Picassos Woman Asleep  The Dream. 
It pictured a worn an asleep in a chair with her head 
back and her six-fingered hands on her lap. How
ever, Picasso gave the woman a long, narrow, 
purple chin pointing up toward her forehead. Ac
cording to Key, since purple was a sexual color, her 
chin represented what was literally on her mind 
a penis.Key also said that Picasso gave the woman 
six fingers on each hand, not as a mistake, but to 
represent motion, to indicate that she was mastur
bating.
Key has a PhD in communication studies and 
taught at the universities of Denver, Kansas, Bos
ton, Puerto Rico, and Western Ontario. Besides 
Subliminal Seduction and The Age of Manipula
tion, Key also wrote Media Sexploitation and The 
Clam-Plate Orgy, which is about a placemat at a 
Howard Johnsons that pictures a plate of fried 
clams that form the picture of a multiple-partner 
orgy.
TAi Pi.i+Sb<jR*k $y/>\P'tirny paiSfrutSs ..i.
Hifi

---------------------------------------------------

Comic
Laddergrams
by Mark Kantrowitz
In a laddergram, the object is to transform the word 
on the top rung into the 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
the other letters. For 
example, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
three steps: LEAD, LOAD, GOAD. GOLD.
- i nis historical developement of such revolutionary ^reversive psychological behavior in even a small 
^portion of an entire species is appealing, but it fidoesnt come without its drawbacks. V
II One such drawback is the infantile need for a 
Italisman, a symbol of safety, or some would say a 
\'security blanket.' Such a 'security blanket' might
Icome in one of many forms. For instance a beanieIwith propellers, a pair of surgically attached prosthetic wings, or a...
... parachute.
Vm wm m fwreomk if wre. the increoibu wiuoiiNsIREPEMWG TO KEEP DCHUG TO VHP WHS WMM ECHO STRIKES I MKT I SM ? THW. I JyST TOW, I WST ._____________________
------------------ VtWT SM R WOHT SM \
f mmthinc r ,

---------------------------------------------------

fflCf! 56IFWTIifs UfiVr DI5tCVj?fD 
TH4-T /JUIM/1U MdtMEfiSM .DOES EXlM"/
AYMCM
j\m jacks*), snuMe. mt, mw. am,MAOOm, H/mSOMFOKP, /OmSMYBR. r-~Ay
RtCHARPtm, \7BPttmc, W A 'j \ 
ROCK Srm, [VM^r^rwemve MrTb//U L.-&S, / /
HUM/TartnJu Kqjwashi
ioiro tOlfH ICY 
COLb I0i4fCT,400 SL-DHiro cOl-fHP/Plrii- HOT AlP...
-Hfv H/ii/c iwoiow rM-r
'mmSKlH.y
A/mepsMce. tioSiof ,IAIc orAd /i Ufomofsuxpeipemm akut/tu. ms.
mm.n
Sill. eMi< ^ TWfiKSWiWF 
UJIC C-f-IOUiL^ E-VOD&H.
lb fjl-Y DPfrcfflb!- SY M<4L- BUtWY RAB&lfS.
Whats a Wendell?by Matt Goldberg
f I'm s+'o.r+incj -fo tin J n f< 
thctf- We sV\<~>/c/n'+- h*ve 
ftxktn Wendell ice Skating,j/g"s not- having rwc.^ fun-..
He's spending -tke wKo/c 
+ 'me. faliin^ down On
8.I5 ta.il. riojVit? .
Welf, ncrf" 
exacfly.. ^a you jet \ 
-t^ese t^ii 103S / V
1 elf?/of
%/ATJEtt1 ingthen ph h,a uClsf m.adpc 
JNNJGURNV- STO.VP . 3.'iA UALI-S , AND
Vl Lv.BE. XOOR. 0FROAUU05T. DvFSlCV ALL 
[>.ABOOT P\S UA?PA TO &E V^REr A^> /
xuP?L3ffb \N THE POvxitR TOOL'S )
l,M~\ ^VAMiAENT AT V\ECHVN&E'S/
Or WHAT LlFt's LIKE, 
AT THE CLOST&fe, ^ 
UOHER.E BJE^ONC'S \ HAW) AT \M6Rvc r"7
y Hn.SpAA/KUNMN.lE<!.K. 
lb CHASING'(OO'R.E iellFry
W haatrey outE
VVVwn.oVFd' ^VJST \
VoluV me!ThP ax mat 0
TWS TCWVY
''Dioiou 'KNOWTHM5 ft JtAh... Me ^
,U\W\ERS yOAUl&*MTho nwr" l'w HOO.r^
carrot
(l\Chl S/'AJi'nvi.i'vw'? He's A
CM6tfg Si ^/vo? f'lttweN
wS1 A?
/Lu/OW\aJ(. fi/LStr/u^'Tt 7^_ 
/y~, sa-O'Wium
/ ill S Z CF o3T D
I S4V/ *
-- .....^ -----11, (Lfzfo&uCArn?
-TXf SgwVTi'
(L^ is H/vri/ut. uP,.
Se^fttoi- 'P<?Lt( t^A-f Tb yoi^ 
tHIwtc of OiMfcdess^A^ 
i^C+l SA(\Jt Tft/UHAl'^-^0'KAV} MRHgde's TH 1 <^M-'DElfewPeD,
'T' 1?ggCPx FLtecxim,
i iTf <>
C-Pis- A- ii. SW1$T(L Mn at
jO -r>/ts c*uiL
vglfoKi M6 ;nJ A"T I>8 
Poa*/D$; iHe Ctt/fLUM^!
y ou'/LE GoufJA NOS'D oAJt? N 
1 H Ar*JbLi ft-U- T^t?'7Sk if?. "iW'SUKY X>|D VoU grt-IOfa M To S-EE 
ft- LfrWlcrt? .\fcti. 1*
CA/J YdU Pul 5c/Vl(a) THf/t 
/i-fcsMT SuP/fe/Z-TlAiG
'Pfpe'/oi> >/ce'AJpiM t. cur^ 
P?^~( ujA-a^T IaJ 6 A STT72^aJ G
Miui-rA-itv? ______^
WoW- You 9hp xkhKL EkKLgKS 
To Sft^/vv^ MAr^g/
/ Lv^TCbf
/ I TKIS o/^e 
iggc
I'M SUIZ.E 
He" A
. SWELL 6M'/.,. 
EXCUSE MC,,,'
2-lc^ SftMiTAriuuniFoa- ^-s-nxB/EnVcS ^Ht's-A Swelu Gw-V. "
SAtf TlD I (/(2- fe'CL 'VH. Lt^S A/JuT
rHe LIpzby oi3&V K.i=iO(0DV/ MA/tt/-u u^tHE.
y^(O( (vD I Sot Alu LiQueriiti U/ 
seiJT -goo PIT-Mb 171 Efo6A/2-
--------//t^uL-Y 3 -pines, se^oP- /MiP?=i-fc7j
f-h^ "PlO ue 6ET TT^lS ^
QTl -7^. Tufl-ntev E.uttTffD? U)|L J
I 1VIis is if? ir'i,V CiOL-y lo gjrcoMD^
/G^^| MJ- 11 <S6Ti> Is ]
'fue 'iwi/AUip Z ,,MIS>TCff- i 
(lobe&i"
ft(O I/O TH|3 Co titled 
WElbHioc. IM AT l?s%
EFn atuP'... e/Z, RF*?Ny
you $Ali> i-l'b'T 'Uli> ^lAJ(2_
Aci.o*v\flus4wi&>Ts!
-C.hbEhxO 
'Wft-foH TKiS/^
HAiWS 
WriipFL ^
 ftePteV , HEAl-IH ca^ j (i.Epoi1-^- . h weft/ti 
(UlC-t SuJeATS1-
sHAP RPoMTit^t CoiJ^utSiOt,
I sEdPt iouoia> Hoiu'd Ser pjc<^ 
THo^/4^/2fc(-{ -fo /Wd /^OIM.,1

---------------------------------------------------

I SURE PIP' GAY, ALICE.
liiaMatgwJ\ gSwp3ataME\ 
tHGAEOUTHOW
3gML nigS weep,
70 BE HAPPY! C(C^k
EaTh NH,peh
g El!su T5H
LmCEIOHgs|i 
3IIIEr 5Els 
mg\E06 V
HETEROSEXUALLY WHY CHAUBNGEP? NOT,FOR THE LOVE ELMONT?OF 60P, ALICE, \ ^PONT TALK 70 A THIS MAN! tydjfr*
PIP YOU, 
ALICE?
olffh g \5! 
\51 fgelmh gP 
T5H cHTI ldls 
o!m0 5 al 5m 
0EleELo!c!tm1
El E!le 
Ege osggm\
ge E!mpn
a!N T5H
g W m5le1
oET m5h 
lf&5m
oE! N5 
T5H&l!mNOm!\
N0,5!K!Nl5Nfl 
elm He 
&5mlT6 LOTS 5P
&5mlT6
WHERE ge E! aHe 
gkff al ElT ,5Hom 
ldlm e!s g111
gke El 
o5se6 !mN 
g \slo HN gm 
mlo lm\f!mu1h
ge m Ege 
ullNPsllvl 
!&!vgm\ 
Fyslke m5
T5H N55s1 
Nl!s6 !sl 
T5H 5p!T
Pgmlh
E!mpe1
\5 E5&l6 D k'^n
olffh g f55pe 
fgpl T5H ugN1 
aH!slmT5H 
DPsllvgm\
m5o!T6 g  
&!T al IB 
sCcEmLoh 
aH ogE El 
HgmN ,Egff 
g Pllfe fgpl 
! a!f&T wBk
&!96
E5o
!slT!hKJP?
HI ge 
g El 
,5me!aHf!sT
Egh P5fpe6 ldls1 
o5m Nls oElsl 5Hs 
em,oa.CmN E5&lflee s5Hgml ,!&l 
Ps5& sT REALITY!
!pl! 
f55p ! 
Egesli 
,lm 
NE55 5n 
NlmmeTfd!mg! 
!dlmHl6
TartanCross
by Jeffe Boats
ACROSSDOWN
1. Inclusives1. Brand of dog food
5. Sword2. Noble gas
8. Toledo environs3. Copenhagen native
12. Jump4- Spook
13. Evenings5. Madrid environs
14. Avenger ____King6. Prince
15. Hairstyle7. Small islands
17. Greetings8. Ear prefix
18. U2 song9. Footballer George
19. Broadcast10. Angry
21. Consumed11. Desert reliefs
22. Vase16. Pie
23. Lobs20. Female deer
25. Place flower22. Disquiet
28. Group of songs24. Avenue
29. Broadway play25. Greek letter
30. Rave26. Boy
34- Alone27. Afflict
35. Prince31. Unit of current
36. Was benched32. Zero
39. Answer33. Attempt
40. Suppurate37. Ones
43. Match teams38. Bass' counterpart
44. Ingest39. Elevate
45. Gunlock catches40. Chow down
47. Pisum sativum41. Avid
50. Turkish officers42. Say
52. Kim Deal's group43. Iron
54. Masculine name46. Dry
55. Unit of distance47. Baseballer Tony
56. Crucifix carvings48. Gaffes
57. Lineage diagram49. Current state of
58. McMahon and Asnermerchandise59. Succeed in course51. Her
53. Dunk
Last Week's Answers
Well, Id recommend either the chicken-fried steak 
or maybe the seafood platter. But look  I gotta be 
honest with ya  nothin' we serve is exactly 
what Id call food for the gods."
"You little softies! When I was your age, I had to crawl 
14 inches to the surface and back! Every day!... 
Through hardpan, by thunder!"
Come on, Johnny  dont be chicken.... 
After its over, well all be strawbrothers."
Frank.... Dont do that. ,
Leonard felt his skin suddenly crawl. Coming through 
the door were a couple of real sketchy characters.
BY G.B. TRUDEAU
The rooster stared back at me, his power and 
confidence almost overwhelming. Down below, 
a female paused warily at the coop's entrance.
I kept the camera running. They were beautiful, 
these Chickens in the Mist."
gke &lh &!sph GGGGzh 
lf&5m6 T5H 5**
DimTAcnm-Y 
INr&J0EbmgcE *5' IHIH&B.DIP SIPT5H? !pl! e!a ! g\W
s5Hegm\ALICE
aH E!ke eEE6 ge 
m5 E5o111 plN Eg&
=L_ !fgdl P5s Ki
pZk ***' ^
BNP 5 g6
f!e mg\E gNs5NNlN&T 
plTe gm ! em5oa!mp1 g 
E!N 0L eg gm &T ,!s P5s 
!m HOUR Hmgf &T oPl
} U
T5Hksl !mOUTCAST! AOmU, 
! PARIAH!
\gdlEg&e5&l o5sh
,E!m\l Nr^Zi 
!fg,l6 
/  oET NOT? al
/ L ,!Ee. fHlkdl
!fsl!uT allm
BURNEP!

---------------------------------------------------

1*1 Vf 5 MATTELECTRIC hDLlEE &AyOyTG(joc.fi HfUHtJuH
,THE E LEcTRlC W\0U5 EUERE \ THU 5 15
ypBoscb TO BE My BXG iNtro / 
Bur^o&puft YRTTFAK JMHL.
TUXMK OP KHYTHTN&XUTE'RESTxNCr 
-FoR KKEToSVfl 
lbo12 2.H k ab.viv7n 
2bteSiLU-7
YOUR COMIC HERE
Space is running out. Want to draw a comic for 
the Tartan Newspaper? Call x8-2l 11 now. Hurry. 
Ask for Ramsey Hong, Art Co -Editor.
6UCSS THIS MEAM5 I 
wjkitSB Fl6HTiM6. 3FWf>X WOt^A N/.. /
, NaroNisss vouA/AUr^
(COMftAWS fROMMS UOMEN S rltfTEQ...

---------------------------------------------------

Special Interest House 
Application Process
The Housing/Residence Life Office is now accepting applications from groups of 
students who would like to be corisidered for residency in one of the Special 
Interest Houses.
Special Interest House Program mission statement
Special Interest Houses give students an opportunity to live in an environment 
that promotes their academic success and leadership development through the 
exploration of a common interest. The unique living arrangement supports the 
development of community within each house as well as strengthens the ties 
throughout the entire Special Interest Housing Community.
Selection Process Timeline: 
NOW:Applications are available in the 
Housing/Residence Life Office 
Morewood Gardens A-Tower
February 14,1994 at noon: Applications due to the Housing/
Residence Life Office
February 16-20,1994:Interviews with Student Dormitory 
Council Selection Committee
February 23,1994:Notification to applicants
Questions? Contact Amy Ginther, Assistant Director off 
Housing for Operations at x8-2139 or via electronic mail at 
ag3 b@andrew.emu,edit
LANGUAGE AND CULTURE 
SUMMER STUDY ABROAD
GERMANY AND SPAIN 
Receive CMU units 
Room /board and supplemental excursions
GERMANY
Intensive German Language and Culture
At the Goethe Institute in the romantic, medieval walled city of 
Rothenburg, located in the scenic Tauber Valley of northern 
Bavaria. 24 hours of class per week allow ample free time for 
recreation and touring. Classes offered at all levels. Housing/ full 
room and board in German homes helps you get to know the local 
people. Receive 18 units of credit at CMU.
Meeting on Tuesday, February 8 
at 3:30 pm in PHA18A
Intensive Spanish Language and Culture
Study Spanish in Madrid in Puerto de Santa Mara at the Estudio 
Internacional Sampere. Choose either a four or six week program. 
Enjoy time in both the capital and southern Spain. 24 hours of 
class per week. Several recreational excursions are included in the 
tuition. Classes are offered at all levels. Housing/full room and 
board with Spanish families is included.
Receive 18-24 units of credit at CMU.
Meeting on Monday, February 7 
at 3:30 pm in PH126C
Application Deadline  April 4,1994
For more information, call the Modern Languages office x8-5669; 
Anne Green x8-8050 (German); 
or Ana Peluffo x8-2868 (Spanish)
Creative Careers Seminar
A very exciting networking program for 
students interested in creative careers.
Friday, February 18,1994 
Robert Morris College - Moon Campus 
9 am -1 pm 
$5 Registration Fee 
Transportation Provided 
Register at the Career Center 
Deadline February 11
Interact with over 30 local professionals who work in a variety of 
creative fields including:
 advertising
 public relations
 print media
 arts management
 radio 
TV
 film
 video
 visual and graphic arts
Summer in Provence
Language, Culture and the Arts
Two options for French study in Southern France. In Aix-enProvence, study intensive elementary or intermediate French or 
combine French with courses in literature, history, civilization, art 
history, international relations and business (some taught in English). 
In Avignon, study French literature, art history, culture,or history (in 
French). Live with a French family, excursions (e.g. museums, 
Provence and the "French Riviera"), films, lectures on art history and 
politics.
Open House
Information Meeting with the President of the Institute for American 
Universities in Aix-en-Provence.
Wedensday, February 9,1994 
12:30 pm - 2:00 pm
Modern Languages Conference Room 
BH160
Pizza will be served.
Career Center 
19 Warner Hall 
268-2064
Information also available on summer language programs in Russia and Japan.

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Gods & Cats
Philosophical comedy enlightens all
By VIVTEN WEISS
Tcirtan Junior Staffwriter
Who am I? Where did I come 
from? Where am I now? These 
questions are all life-encompass
ing thoughts we each grapple 
with from time to time . Scotch 
n Sodas production of Gods and 
Cats this past weekend brought 
these questions to the fore in a 
play with thought-provoking 
irony in its punchy dialogue and 
intriguing ; exchanges between 
twin brothers.
Written by David" Michael 
Slater, a current masters stu
dent in Carnegie Mellons En
glish Department, Scotch n
Clausius, search for their souls 
on this expedition, struggle with 
different religions puzzles and 
truths, and ifivestigate and in
terrogate each other through ev
ery step of the way. One brother, 
confidently and ably played by 
freshman psychology major, Kenn e t S 
Legum, is 
i ntell'igent; isophi st icated, nononsense,
||Jpitemplati ve, 
and lost in 
the helterwould do on his own if the broth
ers were to split up, Clausius II 
answers, Ill buy myself a God. 
Theyre mans best friend. Other 
similar religious propositions are 
examined as well, giving rise to 
the validity and even worth of 
both brothers finding True SalSodas production of Gods and skelter of 
Cats was not the plays first; it a world 
was also performed at the 
Buekham Alley Theater in Flint,
Michigan in March of 1992.
Slater received his degree in 
Organizational Psychology from 
the Univerty of Michigan that 
same year and says of his work,
Gods and Cats developed out of 
my attempts to assimilate both 
rational and religious as
pects of my life. A philosophi
cal journey, Gods and Cats ex
plores various principles of the 
worlds major religions in a dia
logue between two diametrically 
opposed but: fundamentally 
.linkedhalves, or brothers, says 
Slater.
These brothers, named
Brockett Horne/Tartan Calander Editor 
&.8 o.UPF C8r ti1lC.s dC6si7 h.C61l Mg6 a6Pal Ch dsCPhiPh $ C8r $$c
with 
which he 
feels out of 
touch. His 
is the 
more seri
ous, try
ing, and
sometimes even desperate search.
Clausius II, however, could not 
be more opposite, as he is less 
bright and simplistic in a come
dic Three Stooges sort of way. He 
is less experienced in the elite, 
upper crust behavior of his twin.
He constantly reverses or twists 
words and ideas arounda dys-/; self-discovery, was also comlexic who nonetheless impaitsios . mendable. Nace, a freshman pro
own pearls of wisdom. fessional writing major who is
Energetically and effectively attempting to enter CMUs actperformed by freshman Michael mg program, portrays the eccleA. Carlip, an undecided H&SS siastic eclectic, if you will. She 
student, Clausius IPs backward proved to be alive and colorful, as
did her costume  another stark 
contrast to the black and white of 
the twins costuming and of the 
entire set as well.
Directorially, the staging and 
action complemented the script 
wonderfully. A philosophical 
playground, as Gods and Cats
speech packs the play with para
doxical, ironic metaphor. Hisconi stant use of the word dog to 
mean God. and vice-versa (giv
ing the play its title), could in and 
 of itself take forever to ponder 
and turn over in ones mind. For 
instance, when asked what he
director Paol J. Paparelli so suit
ably described it, was created to 
inspire and convey the attempts 
[the brothers] make at answer
ing lifes most challenging ques
tions. No stranger to the stage 
and its inner workings, Paprelli 
founded 106 Miles Off Broadway, 
a community theater 
in Scranton, Pa, 
where he produced, 
directed, and also 
starred in several pro
ductions. \ current 
directing major in 
CMUs Drama De
partment, his experi
ence and ability 
shone through in this 
production. And de
spite some seemingly 
forced comic bits, and 
some technical light
ing problems, the acg 
tors were unfazed  
a credit to the actors 
professionalism, and 
to :that of the Scotch 
n Soda organization, 
vation  the True Soul or Self. Tiie audience is left with the 
The continual bantering, tus-v final thought that we are all made 
sling, fighting, disagreeing,;and of these dual, duelling halves, 
game-playing between he twins struggling to find ourselves as 
was well done and very believ- Clausius and Clausius were. As 
able. Robyn M. Naces perfor- Paparelli explained and strove 
manceofiiarvey; the soothsayer : successfully to convey,These pothe brothers meet on their road to larized prototypes of man have
spent their lives on this playground of religious possibilities, 
contesting one anothers perspec
tives. Yet, he said, they are 
happy and their lives are full, 
even though they may never find 
the answers. And so should we 
be, as long as we keep searching.
4
?y \v>
Gods and Cats 
receives 3 out of 4 masks
Mozart enchants
By LISA STEGGLES
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Saturday, February 5, marked the opening the CMU music 
departments production of Cosi fan Tutte, directed by Jack 
Eddelman. If you are interested in hearing the voices of CMUs 
finest, then you must attend this remarkable event. Cosi fan Tutte, 
translated in English to Women are Like That, is an exciting 
story about a cynical philosopher who believes there are no women 
who will be true to their men. To prove his point, the philosopher, 
Don Alfonso, bets two of his young friends that their fiancees could 
easily be lured away from them and into the arms of another. With 
help from Despina, the financees maid, Alfonso begins to weave a 
series of humorous and deceiving tricks to persuade his friends 
fiancees to be unfaithful.
Cosi fan Tutte was performed for the first time on January 26, 
1790 in Vienna. The music to this opera was written by Wolfgang 
Amadeus Mozart and is performed flawlessly by CMUs orchestra, 
conducted and directed by Robert Page. In accordance with the 
magnificence of the orchestra, the powerful and exciting voices of 
this production should not go without saying. The performances of 
Kristin Carbone (Despina), Stephen Phillips and Michael 
Monnikendam (the trustworthy boyfriends), and Ferrando and 
Guglielmo create the animation and humor of Cosi fan Tutte. 
Stephanie Riso and Nancy Maria play the two sisters, Fiordiligi 
and Dorabella, upon whom the trick is played. Their performances 
are both equally outstanding. The audience was particularly in 
awe over RIsos powerful soprano voice. Christopher Laret, who 
portrays the devious Don Alfonso, also has one of the strongest 
voices.
The characters and the orchestra are the most important and 
interesting parts of the entertainment. Dont look for many set 
changes, but do pay attention to the colorful and humorous 
costumes of the actors, designed by Shanna Foster and Mindy 
Miller. Also, take notice of the use of lighting, designed by Bill 
Jakob, which accentuates every move of the characters. The 
performance lasts approximately two and a half hours and is well 
worth every minute!
Cosi fan Tutte will continue its showing at the Rodef Shalom 
Temple (located across from Mudge on Fifth Avenue) on Saturday 
and Sunday, February 12 andl3, at 8 pm each evening. Student 
tickets are $5 and can be purchased at Skibo Information Desk.
Cos fan Tutte 
receives 4 out of 4 masks
The Diversions 
Rating System
-fc-fc-k-fc - Four items - Excellent, 
a must see
-Three items-Very Good, 
see if possible
- Two items - Fairly Poor
- One item - Stanky!
-A**
Mr
Todd g7.8h
By TINA L. URSO
Tartan Contributing Editor
, The drama department opens a new 
semester of performances this week
end with Stephen Sondheims dark 
musical, Sweeney Todd: The Demon 
Barber of Fleet Street. The musical 
will be directed by guest director Jay 
Ranelli, and will run February 10 
through February 26 at Kresge theater.
Sondheim won recognition with his 
lyrics for Leonard Bernsteins West 
Side Story, and is well-known for his 
Musicals Into the Woods and Sunday 
in the Park With George. 
rf Set during Britains Industrial Revolution, Sweeney Todd tells the story of 
.njamin Barkers transformation 
^to Sweeney Todd, a bloodthirsty man 
out to avenge the destruction of his 
family and his own wrongful deportaion. Mrs. Lovitt helps him serve up 
meat pies of Todds victims to London crowds.
Ranelli has directed over 150 pro
ductions, and is a founding member of 
e 0 Neill Theatre Center, where he 
esigned and directed an international 
experimental theatre study program.
reviews begin this Thursday, 
shows will run until February 26.
I ,lc ts are $7 students/$15 non-stu[Tnts and Preview tickets are $5.
Qtudio ^theatre
Rlih h.Chg8jh 8.I haPr.8a 7sCuh hlgI U6.Ca 76gFih.
By Dan Goldwasser
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
This past week, at the Studio Theatre, 
two one-act plays were performed for 
the Carnegie Mellon community. The 
first one, Man Hunt, by Joanne T. 
Waters, is about a relationship between 
a father and daughter. Jason Antoon, a 
senior drama major, is Tom, the father 
of Michelle, played by senior drama 
major Katherine Tobin. The play begins 
with Michelles birthday, at which only 
she and her father are present. It is her 
30th birthday, and we see how uncom
fortable Michelle is in accepting that 
fact. Tom presents Michelle with his 
late wifes engagement ring, a present 
which Michelle reluctantly accepts. She 
states that she would not be living at 
home at age 30 if she had had a mother 
to raise her. She points out that she is 
too masculine, and needs a boyfriend.
Michelle comes up with the idea to go 
to a bar, and wants Tom to go with her. 
Upon their return from the bar, Michelle 
isteasingTom about Margaret, a woman 
whom he met at the bar. ButTom doesnt 
want to talk about Margaret. Soon, the 
conversation turns towards Michelles 
mother, which begins to bring out the 
true feelings in both Tom and Michelle. 
She expresses her wishes to be free  
and get a life of her own. She apologizes
for her mothers death, since she died 
giving birth. He vehemently disagrees 
and shares his true feelings with her. He 
tells Michelle that he never deserved 
her, and asks for her forgiveness. This 
touching play ends with Michelle forgiv
ing her father, and giving him a long, 
needed hug.
Both of the actors in this play are 
exceptional. Through their motions, we 
believe that we can actually see a father 
and his daughter. The emotional inten
sity of the story overwhelmed the audi
ence, and even a few sniffles could be 
heard towards the end.
The second play was Hairdresser on 
Fire, by Scott C. Sickles. The story 
focuses on the relationships between 
Lawrence (William Penick, CFA senior) 
and his friends Niles (Christian Borle, 
CFA junior) and Briony (Robin Kurtz, 
CFA senior), and between Lawrence and 
his gay lover, Allan (Michael McEachran, 
CFA senior). The story begins in a bar, 
where Lawrence, Briony and Niles are 
talking about their lives. Lawrence ends 
up getting picked up by Allan, and leaves 
the bar with him. We find out that Niles 
and Lawrence once had a relationship, 
and although it had fallen apart, Niles 
still loves Lawrence.
Lawrence, who is an artist, is at an art 
gallery reception where he meets Greg, 
Allans brother. Greg (Patrick Wilson,
CFA Junior) introduces Lawrence to 
Celeste (Mary Bacon, CFA Junior), who 
is on the board of the gallery, and offers 
to display Lawrences works. Allan, 
sensing that Greg is trying to be better 
than him  as he did when they were 
children  suggests to Lawrence that 
they go to a cabin in the woods for the 
weekend. This, of course, conflicts with 
Lawrences gallery show, but Lawrence, 
afraid of losing Allan, decides to go to the 
lake. Allan promises to call Greg and tell 
him that Lawrence would not be able to 
make it to the gallery. In the cabin, 
Lawrence and Allan express their love 
for each other.
Allan humiliates Lawrence in front of 
his friends by playing back a message on 
the answering machine in which 
Lawrence expresses his love for Allan. 
Allan apologizes, and invites Lawrence 
to move in with him, but in the process, 
he fears that he jeopardized Lawrences 
friendship with Briony and Niles. Fright
ened and confused, Lawrence tries to 
leave, but Allan wrestles him to the 
ground. Afraid that he hurt Lawrence, 
Allan tries to apologize to his lover, who 
is now more furious than confused, tells 
him off, and walks out of the room, to be 
with his friends.
The characters in this play were filled 
with their own stories. Each one was 
portrayed excellently, and in a way that
drew the audience into their world. One 
of the most surprising characters was 
that of Celeste, played expertly by Mary 
Bacon. She was extravagant, eccentric, 
and very grandiose. She contributed 
greatly to the humorous aspect of a very 
serious production.
Man Hunt presented a strained re
lationship between a father and daugh
ter, and Hairdresser on Fire shows a 
relationship from its passionate begin
nings to its devastating destruction. 
Jason Fourier, a freshman in MCS, 
thought that the plays were interesting 
and enjoyable. In the first play, I found 
the relationship between Tom and 
Michelle to be very unique. In the sec
ond, the character of Allan was por
trayed very strongly. Based on these 
performances, I recommend that every
one see next weeks plays. Next week, 
the Studio Theatre will be presenting 
two more plays, Kiss Me On The Bus, 
by John R. Sotser, and Innocence of 
Genius, by Bobbi Williams. They will 
be shown at 8 pm on February 17 and 18, 
and at 10 am and 2 pm on February 19.
bfcf
naPrig Rl.Ca6. 
6.1.i[.h w gPa gM  FChSh

---------------------------------------------------

o$qRl. RC6aC8 K dC68.Ui. t.ssg8 K O b.46PC6u DWW
Artists work forms new aesthetic
By DAVID BAZELON
Tartan Staffwriter
The entire design of aesthetics filters out the hum
drum of everyday sights and isolates those which are 
original and hard for the average person to recognize. 
Simple things such as clocks and trees can take on a 
whole new meaning under the keen eye and technical 
skill of an artist. From February 728, the Associated 
Artists of Pittsburgh gallery will be featuring an 
exhibition of paintings by Peter West which display 
the incredible merits of Asian currency in a novel and 
powerful manner.
West has an incredible affinity for catching the beauty of 
printed medium. His silk screens of traditional Asian 
images, as reflected in the currency of the 1920s, is adorned 
with a backdrop of colors that spring its images to life. The 
finely detailed dragons and locomotives are given new 
meaning with multiple layers of paint swirled into archaic 
patterns. Through the use of creative and eclectic media 
and styles, West burnishes these antique images to a 
modern shine.
It is fascinating to look at the pieces and allow a personal 
understanding of their meaning to unfold. West himself 
explained that the inspiration for Nam Mo Amita Bud
dha, one of the works on display, came from the movie
Full Metal Jacket.
The picture of a smiling lady dressed in military gear 
reflects one of the movies female characters who fought 
against the American forces. Although deep in its origin, 
I think the piece would not arouse the same interpretation 
in two different people. These multi-meaningful messages 
make each painting all the more sophisticated, even if they 
do not reflect the artists own rational.
Peter Wests imaginative use of old prints invokes a 
myriad of feelings in its spectator. He shatters all linear 
compositions of the currency with a smattering of wild 
colors. Rarely can such common-looking sights be given a 
spirit that almost surpasses imagination.
Slow week invokes columnist complaints
This past week had to be one of 
the slowest weeks ever for comic 
books, so, regretfully, my column 
will reflect that. So I hope you 
dont mind somewhat of a hodge
podge column this week.
I was looking back on my past 
columns, and I realized that ev
ery one of my Comic Book 
Chronicles were positive, except 
for the gimmick cover one, and
Comic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
This leads me to another gripe: 
the greed of any writer, or artist, 
that wasnt too negative either especially, who becomes hot 
for that matter. So,
Im going to take this 
opportunity to gripe 
a lot this week.
First of all, a ma
jor gripe of mine re
lates to about how I 
was actually happy 
because there were 
not many new books 
this week so I could 
save money. I re
member back in the 
good old days, 11 
years ago when com
ics were only 60 
cents. Sure the pa
per was of the same 
quality as a newspa
per, but I was eight 
so I only worried 
about the words and 
pictures. It was so 
great to get 10 books 
for under $10. But 
that couldnt last: 
long. First it was 65 
cents, then after that 
75. That lasted for 
awhile then and they were a buck 
for a long time.
Then, almost over night, prices 
rose from $1.25 to a buck and a 
half. I barely noticed because 
when your spending about $15 a 
week a quarter here and there 
doesnt make much of an impact.
Has the price of paper really gone 
up that much? Actually no, but even be around today. Besides, 
salaries have. This is especially most of the people at Image and 
evident for Marvel and DC, be- Valiant work on more than one 
cause they are in constant fear of book, so who says they cant work 
losing their talent to creator- for both companies? Is there anyowned publishers like Image, body out there that wouldnt 
Valiant, and now Legend and rather see Rob Liefeld back at XBravura. Force rather than doing some 1993 Marvel Entertainment Group Inc. 
One the curvacious babes of X-calibur.
thing like Troll? Or how 
about Jim Lee back onXMen or Punisher War 
Journal rather than 
Deathblow or Genl3 with 
the character Grunge 
who is outdated before 
the book is even out? Even 
better than those two, 
wouldnt it be great for Whilce 
Portacio to do SOMETHING? 
Skibo will be torn down and the 
University 
Center built 
before his 
Wetworks 
book comes 
out. Now dont 
get me wrong; 
I love Image 
books espe
cially, but Im 
tired of these 
nobodies work
ing on classic 
characters like 
Spider-Man.
Now this 
next topic that 
Im going to 
complain 
about is prob
ably one that 
few of you have 
ever read 
about and 
might disturb 
some of you, 
too. In recent
when working for Marvel and DC 
and then immediately goes to 
work for a creator-owned com
pany. Now I know the big two 
arent that easy to work for, but 
how can you turn your back on 
history like that.
If it wasnt for those two com
panies, comic books might not
ogI naPr.8a 
bC1Psau bC6.h
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
FORUM
TRAVEL
Experienced, friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
dCss /DekWW
Carryout
One 14 Large 
One Tonis 84.99 +TAX
CMU's NEW Choice 
For Delivered Pizza
JplZZA)isaaJQli
682-7272 
682-PAPA 
4643 Baum Blvd.
near North Craig
Check Out These Campus Values!!
One Large One Topping
Only$5."+Tax
Two Large One Topping
Only$10.99
TWICE AS NICE
Two 10 Pizzas 
Two Toppings
Only$8.86+Tax
FREE Breadsticks
& Large 2 Topping
Only
PARTY PACK"
4 LARGE 
One Topping
Only*19.95+Tax
years many new books, and es
tablished ones, too, have at
tempted to be more realistic, yet 
there is one facet of all books has 
become more outlandish. This 
topic is women, specifically their 
clothing.
One of todays most popular 
artists, Jim Lee, is probably the 
leader of comic book women with 
insanely well developed bodies 
and skimpy costumes. Just look 
at the costumes he designed for 
WildC.A.T.S, Zealot, and Voodoo 
(a former exotic dancer, by the 
way) and especially check out 
Divas duds in the current issue 
of Stormwatch.
I think this trend began when 
Todd MacFarlene took the girl 
next door, Mary Jane WatsonParker, and turned her into a 
supermodel that would give 
Cindy Crawford some competi
tion if she were real. First of all, 
having these perfectly built 
women is not only unrealistic 
(sorry a waist that small is im
possible when certain other parts 
are so huge), but I dont see a 
point to it. Is there anybody out 
there who is aroused by the Mar
vel or Homage Studios swimsuit 
specials, or worse adult books 
like Omaha the Cat Dancer?
Just one last gripe and then I 
will be done. This problem is kind 
of related to the other ones, but 
this is much more specific. This
gripe isnt a trend in comic books, 
but one person, MacFarlane. Iam 
utterly amazed by this mans ego. 
I have never read a letter column 
where the fans are being bla
tantly insulted by the person 
theyre writing to. Sure he is a 
great artist and a good writer, 
but if he keeps up with the atti
tude that he doesnt care what 
his fans think then it wont mat
ter how great he is because ev
eryone will be so turned off by his 
arrogance that they wont buy his 
books. He should concentrate 
more on his comics than on his 
ongoing conflict with Marvel. I 
hope he realizes that if it wasnt 
for Marvel, then he could still 
being doing stuff like Infinity Inc..
Well, Ive complained enough, 
but before I go I want to remind 
everyone about the poll Im tak
ing. Please take time out to drop 
me (via email at ja3q or by The 
Tartan) your three favorite comic 
books, favorite penciler, favorite 
inker, and favorite storyline of 
the past year. The results will 
included in an upcoming issue.
Jason Andracki is a freshman 
profesional writing major. He wel
comes any input into his column.
If you have any comments for 
him, send them to Comic Book 
Chronicles, c/o Diversions, The 
Tartan, Skibo Room 50, or drop 
them off in person at our office.
Monday, February 1
Liverball & Cavemen
Show 10 pm, The Decade
White Zombie
Doors 6 pm, Show 7:30 pm, 
All Ages, Metropol
Tuesday, February 8 
Barbara Blue & Gene 
Ludwig
Show 711 pm, Balcony
Buckwheat Zydeco
Graffiti
Derailer
Show 10 pm, The Decade
The Loved Ones
Doors 6 pm, Show 8 pm, 
Rosebud
Wednesday, February 9
Blindsight
Show 10 pm,The Decade
Roger Humphries, 
Jimmy Ponder, Keith 
Stebler, Joe Negri
Show 67:30 pm, Balcony
Saturday, February 12
Affordable Floors wl 
Brownie Mary
Graffiti
Sunday, February 13
The Mighty Mighty 
Bosstones wl Skablins
Doors 6 pm, Show 7:30 pm, 
All Ages, Metropol
The Balcony 5520 Walnut St., 687-011(1 
The Decade 223 Atwood St., 682-1211 
Graffiti 4615 Baum Blvd., 682-8296 
Metropol 1600 Smallman Ave., 261-4512 
Rosebud 1650 Smallman St., 261-2221
$5. each!!
FINANCIALAD.
Only the 6E Classic MasterCard, offers students 
this unequaled package of benefits.
k AQ/ The GE Classic MasterCard is the educated 
H Kl/j #0 choice for students looking for smart ways 
M f inn t0 save *c ^ers one the lowest APRs B 0 a APR you'll find on campus - 9.9%* variable APR 
for the first year with a low 16.9% variable APR thereafter. 
That means that even if you're only able to pay the minimum 
amount due, you'll pay just 9.9% on your outstanding balance.
NO ANNUAL FEE!
While other credit cards charge annual fees of $20 or more, 
the GE Classic MasterCard has no annual fee. Frankly, we 
don't see why you should pay just for putting our card in 
your wallet.
This great offer could only come from 
a team like GE Card Services and 
MasterCard. GE Card Services is part 
of one of the leading financial services 
companies in the world. And MasterCards the credit card 
more widely accepted than any other on the planet. Together, 
they provide you with unparalleled financial security.
STUDENT DISCOUNTS.
As a GE Classic MasterCard member, you're also entided to 
special discounts at many of your favorite stores. Through the 
COLLEGE MasterValues** program, you'll enjoy savings of 
up to 40% on everything from CDs to travel.
The GE Classic MasterCard. An educated choice.
Look for an application on campus or in your mail.
And get the financial aid every student needs.
*APRi r. of 1/1/9* 9VX viruUe APR jpple for ihe fra 12 c/dev iftcr uu! a vjrutte APR. vwxti is of 1/1/94 wu l&9%.wJ)ppl/toi9cjciuigindicbiUncci Ai 1, ime >our me ncicue to 4 vjniUe APR. w*Kh o( I/I/94 wm I9936. bued on yar ddixjuency. A rnniiTun France Ourje of 150 wil jppV & ** tmei Auih*tance fee of 75* of Bieidrtnce (mnmun Si ir miMTun 320) w* be cturjed for uch uih tance.
"COU.EGE MiaerViluo n  product offered b/ MjfleCirxJ *cn n lubjecl Io chjnge jnd mj/ be cfaconbnued il xrj Une. Cetun tema and conuxis jppfy

---------------------------------------------------

Rl. RC6aC8 K dC68.Ui. t.ssg8 K O b.46PC6u DWWDDD
Thursday, February 10
Shes Gotta Have It
The 1986 film which announced the major new 
director, Spike Lee, Shes Gotta Have It is a sexy 
and electric collage of staccato montages, still 
frames, and confidential asides to the camera. At 
the center of the vortex is one of Spike Lees most 
impressive creations: Nola Darling, a free-spirited 
woman who shares her bed with three men, yet is 
too independent to fall for the vanities of male 
behavior.
Starring Tracy Camilla Johns, Tommy 
Redmond Hicks, and Spikes father, Bill Lee, this 
film is a fascinating portrayal of urban life.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, February 11
Bad Lieutenant
Academy Award-nominee Harvey Keitel stars 
in this intense and gripping crime thriller. In a 
controversial performance, Keitel plays a gambler, 
thief, junkie, arid killer  who also happens to be 
a cop. While investigating a brutal crime, he suc
cumbs to the personal demons that threaten to 
destroy him. Living on the edge, he spirals down
ward, becoming a badge out of control, the streets 
biggest fear, and eventually, his own worst enemy.
Shot in an almost rabid style, Bad Lieutenant 
played mostly at art theatres during its short 
run. Disturbing and gritty, Keitel plays a lost 
and storm-tossed lieutentant with great realism.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
.Saturday, February 12
Fearless
After Max Klein (Jeff Bridges) survives a plane 
crash, he is transformed. Realizing he has tri
umphed over death, Klein becomes insanely calm 
and achieves a surreal, angelic peace. However, 
his wife, Laura, played by Isabella Rossellini, can 
no longer accept him and sends him to a psychia
trist who introduces him to Carla Rodriguez (Rosie 
Perez), another emotionally devastated victim of 
the crash. The calm Klein and the manic Rodriguez 
join to recreate their lives in a sane and livable 
form.
In Fearless, as in Starman, Bridges portrays 
the alien in all of us. He becomes transfigured by 
tragedy and must be brought back down in order to 
survive.
This 1993 film directed by Peter Weir is full of 
powerful images and ideas. However, its meta
physical aspects are drowned by the movie becom
ing a simple family drama. A good Saturday film 
for those who need a touch of calm.
At 6, 8:15, 10:30 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, February 13
I Was a Teenage 
Frankenstein
A cut rate descendant of Dr. Frankenstein 
living in Los Angeles creates a weight-lifting, hor
rific monster in his basement. He manages to keep 
the creature a secret from his fiancee, but has to 
throw his assistant to the alligators to keep him 
from talking. The monster then steals the head of 
a teenage make-up artist. What he does with it, 
however, is as mysterious as Citizen Kanes Rose
bud.
A quickie exploitation follow-up to I Was a 
Teenage Werewolf , released in the decade of 
horrorific B-movies, this 1957 classic has ... a very 
nice personality.
L
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight. 
By JOHN BIGGS
Pianist back with Under the Pink
By DAVID BAZELON
Tartan Staffwriter
Possessing a deep, brilliant 
voice, remarkable control of the 
piano, and a fantastic red mane, 
Tori Amos attributes are of an 
almost ethereal quality. Her ma
nipulation of sound has a hyp
notic effect, moving emotions with 
just a subtle change in the power 
of her voice. Whether employing 
a soft tone or driving the medium 
full force, Amos talents show 
through, allowing the listener to 
experience her own analysis of 
.the world around her. With the 
success of her first album, Little 
Earthquakes, and two EPs, Cru
cify and Winter, Tori Amos fans
rightfully expect a great deal from 
her future endeavors. Her new 
album, Under the Pink, wont dis
appoint.
Under the Pink is not a repeat 
of Little Earthquakes. Amos 
strives to introduce new styles 
into each of her songs, never 
allowing one medium to take over 
and drown out the potential of 
others. Like Little Earthquakes, 
the songs range from soft-spo
ken, brooding melodies to whim
sical jazzy types.
What is perhaps most moving 
about Amos work is that no mat
ter how peaceful and serene the 
qualities of her songs, there is 
always an underlying theme of 
unrest in the individual. Amos
exposes a dark imperfection in 
the world that hides behind the 
apparent beauty. Her revelations 
become ironic in their serenity as 
she makes sure that they have 
value for herself and her listener.
A great deal of emotion goes 
into Amos performances. The 
succession of each idea is colored 
with precise attention given to its 
telling. Baker Baker parallels 
a womans waiting for a cake to 
be prepared to her recent loss of a 
lover. Icicle is wrought with 
sexual innuendo that is as alarm
ing in its shift of moods as the 
gritty style of something as dis
tant as a Tool song. A song that 
shows the bitter resentment a 
person can have like The Wait
ress is a sharp contrast to the 
child-like ambiance of Bells for 
Her. These songs are distant in 
their subject matter, but are simi
lar in the manner that they ask 
questions of oneself.
Under the Pink contains the 
same strengths in musical style 
that has graced previous works 
of Tori Amos. Her music is still as 
exciting as it was with her earlier 
releases and has no reason to 
seem as though it will ever be 
different.
Under the Pink 
receives 3 out of 4 notes
C; I IN h IVI A SpE
Ace Ventura: Pet Detective
Jim Carrey stars as a private in
vestigator for pets whose mission is 
to save the Miami Dolphins team 
mascot. (Squirrel Hill Cinema World; 
7:45, 9:35 pm daily, 4:20, 6:05 pm 
Friday through Sunday; 1, 2:40 pm 
Saturday and Sunday)
Addams Family Values
The Addams Family is back, this 
time with a new baby, Pubert. (Bee
hive; 9:45 daily)
Baraka
With footage from 24 different 
countries, Baraka is an exciting film 
about the earth and mans reliance 
on his environment. (Playhouse; 7, 
9 pm Friday through Sunday)
Beverly Hillbillies
Those hicks of TV past are here 
again, with Jim Varney (Hey, Vem!" 
fame) joining the family this time. 
(Beehive; 7:30 pm daily)
Black Maria Film Festival
This one of the nations most 
prestigious and competitive festi
vals for experimental films and vid
eos. (Filmmakers at the Fulton ; 8 
pm Thursday)
Blink
This mystery thriller unfolds as a 
transplant recipientsees her donors 
murderer through her newly ac
quired eyes. (Manor Theater; 1:10, 
3:15, 5:20, 7:40, 9:45 pm daily)
Ceddo
This political thriller about the 
kidnapping of a tribal princess fo
cuses on the confrontation of op
posing forces during a period of 
pending Muslem expansion. 
(Carnegie Museum ofArtTheater; 8 
pm Saturday and Sunday)
81/2
Federico Fellini directs 8 1/2, 
another Oscar winning Best Foreign 
Film about a movie director who 
tries his hand at making another 
film but is stalled by confusion and 
doubts. (Playhouse; 7 pm Tuesday 
through Thursday)
Intersection
Richard Gere and Sharon Stone 
star in this suspenseful movie about 
a husband torn between his wife 
and his lover. (ManorTheater; 1:30, 
3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 pm daily)
Household Saints
ComedienneTracey Ullman stars 
as a young mother who gives birth 
to Teresa, whose saintly character is 
remarkable, considering her envi
ronment, growing up among the 
views of three generations of her 
family in post-WWII Little Italy. (Film
makers at the Fulton; 7, 9:30 pm 
daily except Thursday)
La Strada
Federico Fellini directs this Os
car winning film about a circus 
strongman who takes a plain girl on 
the road and under his wing. An
thony Quinn and Giulietta Masina 
star. (Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7, 9:10 
pm Monday)
The Pelican Brief
Julia Roberts and Denzel Wash
ington star in this adaptation of John 
Grishams novel about assassinated
Supreme Court justices. (Squirrel 
Hill Cinema World; 7:20, 9:55daily; 
4:30 pm Friday through Sunday; 
1:45 pm Saturday and Sunday)
Philadelphia
Tom Hanks stars in this film about 
a gay man who brings his former 
employers to court after they fire 
him when they find out he has the 
HIV virus. (Squirrel Hill Cinema 
World; 7, 9:35 pm daily; 4:15 pm 
Friday through Sunday; 1:30 pm 
Saturday and Sunday)
The Piano
CMU alum Holly Hunter stars in 
the story of a Victorian woman who 
moves to the wilds of New Zealand, 
where she explores her relation
ships with her husband, played by 
Sam Neil, and her lover played by 
Harvey Keitel. (ManorTheater; 3:15, 
5:20, 7:30 pm daily)
Saturday Night Fever
John Travolta stars in the origi
nal R-rated version of this John 
Badhma classic about teen angst in 
the 1970s. (Beehive; midnight Fri
day and Sunday)
Schindlers List
Steven Speilberg directs this his
toric film about the life of German 
businessman Oskar Schindler, who 
is well known for saving the lives of 
thousands of Jewish people during 
the Holocaust. (Manor Theater; 
12:30, 4:15, 8 pm daily)
Shadowlands
Based on the life of Christian 
philosopher and childrens writer 
C.S. Lewis, this film stars Anthony 
Hopkins and Debra Winger. (Manor
Theater; 1, 9:40 pm daily)
Summer House
A London teenagers decision 
to engage in a marriage with a 40- 
year-old man forces her mothers 
flamboyant friend to go to drastic 
measure to prevent the marriage 
from taking place. (Beehive; 5:30 
pm daily)
Tales From the Gimli Hospital
A tale of disease, obsession, 
and madness revolving around two 
patients who leam that they share 
more than a hospital ward as they 
reveal their darkest secrets to one 
another. (Carnegie Museum of Art 
Theatre; 8 pm Friday)
Twenty Bucks
Follows the life a $20 bill that is 
transferred through the hands of a 
series of shady characters and ordi
nary citizens. (Beehive; Friday 
through Sunday)
Rl.Ca.6 sg1Caig8hZ
N..li[.Z wkO bg64.h f[.c 
/Oe,TfR
bisFFCS.6h Ca al. bPsag8Z
DkD nipal nac9 gI8agI8 
ODeWOkk
Rl. tC8g6 Rl.Ca.6Z
DOLW tP66Cu f[.c LLeOOLW
\iaah4P6Ul \sCulgPh.Z
LLL d6CMa f[.c /LDe//kD
nQPi66.s Tiss di8.FC ,g6srZ
0L bg6IC6r f[.c LDeOWkk
dC68.Ui. tPh.PF gM f6a 
Rl.Ca.6Z kk bg64.h f[.c 
/LLewLDL
ByTARAZANE
It takes a special kind of talent to revolutionize an industry 
the talent behind Parametric Technology Corporation's Pro/ENGINEER.
Talk about performance and you're talking about Parametric "technology Corporation. 
You're talking about next generation design automation tools that have redefined the 
capabilities of mechanical CADand continuing dramatic growth by a company whose
$163 million sales represent 
an increase of 88% in the 
past year alone.
We offer a variety of career paths for high-energy 
achievers with majors in MECHANICAL 
ENGINEERING, MANUFACTURING ENGINEERING, 
COMPUTER SCIENCE and APPLIED MATHEMATICS. 
If you're about to complete your Bachelor's or an 
advanced degree, get a h?ad start on your future 
by talking to PTC.
Pro/ENGINEER software's 
parametric, feature-based solid 
modeling technology is wellsuited to complex design 
projects. This motorcycle 
design model contains 200 
total parts, including 
150 unique parts and 
37 subassemblies. Each 
part incorporates as many as 
90 intelligent 
features cap
turing the 
engineers 
design 
intent.
PARAMETRIC
TECHNOLOGY
CORPORATION
WE WILL BE OH CAMPUS FEBRUARY 24TH.
For Information about positionscurrently avail* able, please sign
up at your Career Placement Office for an on-campus interview, or. 
send or fax your resume to: Human Resources, Dept. CR, Parametric Technology Corporation, 128 Technology Drive, Waltham, MA 02154. PAX: (617) 736-9674. An Equal Opportunity Employer.

---------------------------------------------------

The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust presents 
Alfred DeCredico, Drawings:1985-1993 at the
Wood Street Galleries through February 26. 
DeCredicos painting and sculpture exhibition 
features an essay by David Carrier, philosophy 
professor at CMU. For more information and 
gallery hours, call Rob at 471-6070.
Jessica Stockholder, a New York artist, will 
be speaking in DH 2315 at 5 pm on Tuesday. The 
lecture is sponsored by the Art Department.
Gluppity Glup. Also Schloppity Schlopp, a 
painting and sculpture exhibit by Josette 
Ghiseline and Chris Siefert, runs through Feb
ruary 19 at the Hewlett Gallery. Call 268-3877 for 
more information.
Come repair, revise, and revitalize your for
eign language skills at the International 
Language Tables held daily over lunch. Spon
sored by the Modem Languages Department, all 
language tables are held in the Graduate Student 
Coffeehouse, with the exception of the Russian 
Language table, held in the Faculty Dining Room. 
Times are as follows: Tuesdays: Russkii Chas and 
La Table Franaise at 12:30 pm; Wednesdays: La 
Mesa Espaola at 11:30 am; Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch at 11:30 am; and Fridays: Bentoo 
Lunch o nihongo de at 12:30 pm.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research Group
holds workshop meetings every Monday at 7 pm
Send in Valentine's Day Vox! 
Email entries for Vox Populi or Calen
dar to gh27, drop them in the Tartan 
box on Appleshare, put them in the 
Tartan mailbox at the Skibo info desk, 
or mail them to The Tartan, Box 17, 
CMU, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Yeah Stewart! Hows the Darkside?
Cmon Mikey - our sides better!
FABIO and Steve, 
can you say VIRGINIA? 
or DARKEST REGIONS? 
or Best WESTERN? 
or KITTY CAT? 
or Bree-stee-cees?
I can. See you in the Casa, BEEE YATCH!
Laters,
From the esquire
Hey Ted, did you lose anything lately?
To that special girl: I think I left my blue under
wear in your room.
Please let me know -KEN
PAT,
Go away, you bother us.
FABIO,
Go on SPRING BREAK with us, you fag. We want 
yinz in CANCN. Margaritas and Seoritas, nuff said.
-the Badboys of BEST WESTERN
Harms,
OH REALLY?
NOOOOOO?
YOURE KIDDING?!?!
SHUDDDUP!
from the PENN State Crew
5 in 95!
Lets go Bills!
Hey you ... thanks for not giving up on me ... 
everybody deserves a friend like you!
-justme
MY DIXIE WRECKED 
Andrew:
Your stool is on my coat.
Meagan:
No, your coat is under my stool.
I LIKE CHEESE
at the Friends Meeting House. For more informa
tion, call Bill King at 276-1768.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club holds its 
meetings Tuesdays at 6 pm in the Tartan loft. For 
more information, email db74 or jt3y.
Traditional Irish Set dancing classes take 
place every Sunday night from 7-9 pm in the 
Bellefield Building at University of Pittsburgh. 
Call 363-8686 for more information.
The Eenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Wednesdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A and 
Sundays at 2 pm in Activity Room B. For more 
information email cd2b or call x8-2151.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-denominational student study group, provides a 
weekly forum for students inquiringinto the mean
ing and purpose of life. Regular meetings are held 
Tuesdays at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning, 
room 236. For more information, call 343-1907.
The Womens Center Collective holds meet
ings every Sunday at 3 pm in the CMU Womens 
Center. If your group is interested in meeting in 
the center, call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Every first and third 
Wednesday the Toastmasters Club sponsors a 
speech communication workshop at the Carnegie 
Library in Oakland from 7-8:30 pm. For more 
information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is held on 
Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the Israel room (337) at 
the Cathedral of Learning and on Thursdays in 
Skibo 201 at 8 pm, free of charge. Call Rabbi 
Samuel Weinstein at 683-7770 for more informa
tion.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop, sponsored 
by the University of Pittsburgh, meets every 
Wednesday at 7 pm in the first floor conference 
room of the Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writers-to-be and 
includes Pitt and CMU students and alumni. For 
more information, call 421-8140.
The Pterodactyl Speedway holds student read
ing series in Scotland Yard every other Thursday 
at 7 pm. Come out and support the local student 
writing community. Students interested in read
ing should contact Micki Kochanskyj (mk57) or 
TinaUrso(tu05). Reading this week: Megan Dietz, 
Aimee Beal, Wendy Jones, Troy Benowitz.
A Rational Recovery support group for those 
with alcohol or drug problems meets every Friday 
at 7:30 pm. Meetings are free and held in Room 
205 of the Wightman Community Center Build
ing in Squirrel Hill. For information on this and 
other RR meetings in the Pittsburgh area, phone 
261-5363.
The Student Environmental Action Coali
tion meets every Sunday at 4:30 pm at the Penn
sylvania Environmental Resource Center at the 
comer of Forbes and Craig, third floor. SEAC is 
composed of activists and organizers who fight for 
greater awareness of the current state of the 
environment and for preservation of this deli
cately balanced ecosystem. Call 681-8300 for more 
information.
SafeWalk If you need to walk across campus late 
at night, let a trained escort accompany you. Call 
SafeWalk between 10 pm and 2 am seven nights 
a week at 268-SAFE (x8-2733). For more informa
tion, contact Ray at 862-3068.
Welsh Language Classes sponsored by the 
Celtic Society will be held in Porter Hall A19A 
on Wednesday evenings; beginners 7:15-8:15 pm 
and advanced beginners 8:30-9:30 pm. Call 521- 
6722 to enroll.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39, 
weekdays. Weekend Masses are celebrated at 
10:30 am and 8 pm every Sunday in the GSIA 
Cooper Auditorium. For more information, call 
the Newman Oratory Center at 681-3181.
St. Agnes Church, 3221 Fifth Ave offers the 
Traditional Latin Mass Sundays at 8:30 am (Low) 
and 11 am (High), first Fridays of the month at 
7:30 pm, and first Saturdays at 9 am. Confession 
and the Holy Rosary are offered 30 minutes prior 
to all Masses. Call 766-0950 for more information.
Ecumenical Holy Communion, sponsored by 
the Episcopal, Lutheran, and United Campus 
Ministries, is held Wednesdays at 5 pm in the 
Heinz Chapel.
Tech House will host a weekly Bible Study at
7 pm on Thursdays. For more information, call x2- 
2484.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday with a 
happy half hour (hors doeuvres) at 5:30 pm,
The Contemplations of Padre Pio, DWWw9 6.76grP1.r C4g[. i8 4sC1S C8r Ilia.9 ih C Fip.r F.riC g8 
1C8[ChIggr 4u fsM6.r .d6.ri1g g8 rih7sCu Ca al. ,ggr na6..a BCss.6i.hc photo: Scott Alan, New York
BMWservices at 6 pm, and dinner following. RSVP by seas
calling 621-8875.
Daressalam Islamic Center offers weekly con
gregational prayers at noon on Fridays. For more 
information, call 682-5555.
New Hope Christian Community Church in
vites all students to uplifting services on Sundays 
at 11 am in the Central Christian Church located 
at the comer of Fifth and Dithridge (134 N. 
Dithridge). For more information, call 621-6760.
Prayer at the Close of the Day, sponsored by 
the Lutheran Campus Ministry, is held Sundays 
at 9:30 pm in the Heinz Chapel. This Sundays 
organist will be Terri Konzen, of St. J ohn Lutheran 
Church of Mars. For more information, call 682- 
6886.
Smithfield United Church holds Sunday morn
ing worship services at 10:45 am. A free student 
fellowship luncheon follows each service.
The Church of the Ascension (Episcopal)
welcomes all students to services on Sundays 
with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college class at 9:30 
am, and morning worship at 11:00 am in the 
chapel located on the comer of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. For more information, con
tact Brian VanderWel at 621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church holds wor
ship service Sundays at 11 am and college class at 
9:45 am. Shadyside College Fellowship is on Fri
days at 6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette 
Ediger at 682-4300.
The Lutheran University Center invites you 
to join in an Episcopal Lutheran Shared Eucha
rist on Sundays at 5 pm. Call x2-6886 for more 
information.
Compline Prayer at the End of the Day is
sung every Sunday at 9:30 pm at the Heinz Chapel. 
For more information, call 682-6886.
GARAGE ROCK: New Bomb Turks, 68 Come
back, and Mount McKinleys will play tonight 
at 8 pm at the Bloomfield Bridge Tavern. Call 682- 
8611 for more information.
INDIE ROCK: Don Caballero, Richmonds 
Labradford, and New Jerseys Bubblegum 
Thunder will play at the Bloomfield Bridge Tav
ern on Thursday at 9 pm. Call 682-8611 for more 
information.
JAZZ: Bostons Charlie Kohlhase Quartet, 
locals Watershed, and 40 Stories will play at 
the Tilted Square CoffeeHouse at 8 pm. Call 268- 
6975 for more information.
River City Brass Band presents Love Songs, 
Old and New at Carnegie Music Hall on Satur
day at 8 pm. Call 322-6821 for more information.
The womens basketball team will host games 
against Washington University Friday at 6:30 
pm and against the University of Chicago on 
Sunday at 1 pm.
The mens basketball team plays at home this 
weekend, against Washington University on Fri
day at 8:30 pm and against the University of 
Chicago on Sunday at 3 pm.
The mens and womens indoor track team
will compete in the West Virginia University 
Invitational this weekend.
The CMU Hockey Club will play Duquesne 
University at 10:30 pm on Saturday in an exhibi
tion match at the Golden Mile Rink in Monroeville.
The Catholic Alumni Club of Pittsburgh is 
sponsoring volleyball every Wednesday at St. 
Edmunds Academy in Squirrel Hill from 8-10 pm 
for $3. Call 341-4070 for more information.
DADll
S/tes Gotta Have It will be shown in DH 2210 on 
Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Bad Lieutenant plays in DH 2210 Friday at 6,8, 
10 pm, and midnight.
Fearless shows in DH 2210 Saturday at 6, 8:15, 
10:30 pm, and 12:45 am/
I Was a Teenage Frankenstein will play Sun
day in DH 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
The CMU Photography Society presents An
drea London speaking on portraiture on Thurs
day, February 10, at 5 pm in Skibo 12.
SEAC of Western Pennsylvania Organiza
tional Conference will be held February 12 at 
the Community College of Allegheny County. 
Student environmentalists and activists from all 
over Western PA will network while attending 
various workshops anddiscussion groups. Every
one is welcome! No fee; breakfast and lunch 
be provided. Contact Teresa (tl29, x2-3152) for 
more information.
The Concord Coalition is sponsoring Hollow 
Promises of Deficit Control from 1984-present 
tonight at 7:30. pm in the conference room in the 
Carnegie Library. The speaker will be Dr. Patrick 
Stroh of the SDS department.
The SARC Dinner will be held Friday at the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association with five choices 
of entrees. Tickets are $10 and can be purchased 
at the Alumni House or by calling Shelley at x8- 
2060.
Hugs, Slaps and Kisses, sponsored by Delta 
Delta Delta and Pi Kappa Alpha, will take 
place from Wednesday, February 9, through 
Wednesday, February 16. A table will be set up in 
front of Doherty and the cost to send a hug, slap, 
or kiss is $1. Proceeds benefit the Children's 
Hospital.
The Celtic Society is sponsoring an intro
ductory session in the Celtic Society Workshop/ 
Discussion Series on Saturday in Porter Hall 
A19D at 10:30 am. Call 521-6722 for more infor
mation.
Robert Gibb, author of Fugue for a Lo^ 
Show and winner of many poetry awards, will 
speak on Thursday at 7 pm in the Adamson WingThe lecture is sponsored by the CMU Writing 
Series and is free.
EttaJenks, directed by Heidi Marshall, 
play at the Studio Theater Thursday, Friday, & 
Saturday.
