aside
Comics...
ftestures...
fewm......
<ts...........
populi...
...L6....L9....LL....6......9..L14
The Tartan will not 
publish for the next two 
weeks due to Spring 
Break. The next issue 
will run April 3.
Living
Mister Rogers brings out 
the child in everyone  
see page LI
Courtesy of WQED
Sports
NCAA tournament 
games announced  
see page 11THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 190613 March 1995
Students make their voices heard...
Vigil enlightens campus about rape
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor
ie annual Greek Sing took place at Soldiers and Sailors on Saturday night. Slg 
an won overall and came in first In the single division, for performing Sesame 
treet. Pictured here are Kappa Kappa Gamma and Phi Kappa Theta performing 
Pinball Wizard" from Tommy, which won first In the mixed divison. Delta Upsllon 
The Blues Brothers) and Kappa Delta Rho (Pink Floyd, The Waif) came in second 
nd third in singles, respectively. See related story on page LI.
fhree PiLams await trial
vMAX CHITTISTER
artan Assistajit News Editor
One current and two former CMU 
udents will stand trial in the case 
volving Justin Chambers, the 19-yeard student who died of alcohol poisong at a private Christmas party on 
ecember 10, 1994, in the Pi Lambda
li fraternity house.
On Wednesday, the Pittsburgh Postazette reported that former student 
loraas Hummel and current student 
filliam Halpin would stand trial. 
Another former student, Steven 
arting, waived his right to a prelimiary hearing and will also stand trial. 
Charges' against Joseph Behrmann 
ere dropped due to lack of evidence. 
The defendants are charged with proding alcohol to a minor.
By MAX CHITTISTER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Beginning on Monday March 27, 
changes will be implemented in the 
CMU shuttle service.
Chief of Campus Police James 
jaPaglia said As a result of a student 
project from last semester, we are gongto be effecting shuttle route changes 
^ginning March 27 until May 17. 
The project, which was sponsored by 
Engineering and Public Policy, Social 
Decision Sciences, and the Heinz 
>chool, involved 17 students who de
eded to study the transportation sysem. They made reccomendations for 
Ganges in a detailed report.
We have been so impressed ... we 
^ould like to implement one of their 
Ganges ... involving routing the 
.buttle service, LaPaglia said.
The current system involves two 
Outes, designated Route A and Route 
During off-peak hours, one shuttle 
Provides service on both routes. Durng peak hours, a second shuttle is 
ldded, and each route gets its own 
huttle. The shuttles are run in a loop 
oute. These routes have been very
 ective, LaPaglia said.
The change would be that, instead of 
0oP routes, the shuttles would run on 
Poke routes. That is, instead of makJg one loop through the area around 
pU, the shuttles would make all of 
stops in one direction, then stop at
PiLam has been evicted from their 
house as a result of the incident.
Television coverage of the arraignment 
was provided hy WTAE-TV and WPXITV. Arepresentative of WTAE-TV News 
said that, as they were walking past the 
cameramen, the defendants slightly 
shoved them. In the newscasts, the de
fendants could be seen laughing in the 
courtroom.
WPXI-TV did not return phone mes
sages.
Hummel could not be reached for com
ment. Martinghad no comment at press 
time. Halpin and current Pi Lambda Phi 
President Robert Hamady refused to 
comment.
District Magistrate Robert Tucker 
heard the preliminary hearing.
He was not available for comment on 
the case.
CMU again, and make the stops in the 
other direction. This system cuts the 
distance of each route in half.
The shuttle driving Route A-l will 
leave Morewood, drive to Dithridge 
Street in Oakland, come back up Cen
tre Avenue to Craig Street, and from 
Craig onto Forbes Avenue and back to 
campus.
Route A-2 has stops at Marybelle 
Apartments, the comer of Devonshire 
and Ellsworth, Devonshire and Cen
tre, Bayard and Morewood, Cathedral 
Mansions, and Neville and Fifth.
Route B-l consists of Morewood Av
enue, Centre Avenue, Graham Street, 
Baum Boulevard, and Negley Avenue.
On Route B-2, the shuttle will make 
stops at Aiken and Fifth, Aiken and 
Ellsworth, Negley and Ellsworth, and 
Negley and Fifth.
LaPaglia feels that this will improve 
on the current system in two ways. 
First, the new routes will cut travel 
time in half. Second, the shorter routes 
should reduce overcrowding on the 
shuttle buses.
Currently, the round trip takes ap
proximately 25 minutes, but under 
the new system, it could be cut down to 
anywhere from 10 to 12 minutes, 
according to LaPaglia.
This is only a pilot project... well 
be doing surveys for customer satis
faction, LaPaglia stated. If customer 
response is favorable, the system could 
continue next year.
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Copy Manager
At 7 pm Sunday night, candles lit up 
the night in front of the Fence. More 
than 70 students stood in a circle and 
held lit candles in a show of support for 
victims of rape and sexual assault.
The actual vigil lasted approximately 
20 minutes. Afterwards, one of the orga
nizers asked that everybody leave their 
candle lit as they walked home.
Four CMU students, Chelsea Mamell 
(freshman, architecture), Bethany Hunt 
(freshman, H&SS undeclared), Amanda 
Young (freshman, architecture), and 
Yunny Yip (freshman, H&SS unde
clared) organized the vigil in order to 
show their sup
port for a friend 
who had been 
raped, and for 
any others who 
had also sur
vived the 
crime.
We had a 
friend who was 
raped last year 
on campus,
Mamell said. We decided we wanted to 
find some way to show her support and 
show support for other survivors on cam
pus, and we decided that holding a vigil 
would be a good way.
Mamell said she hoped the vigil would 
show members of the CMU community 
that rape happens on campus, especially 
in light of the recent crime statistics 
that show there have been no rapes on 
campus in the past five years.
Were concerned about [the crime sta
tistics], and thats something that we 
definitely disagree with, she said. When 
I spoke to the detectives on campus, I 
was told that any rapes that are re
ported, unless theyre prosecuted... un
less theres some legal action, the law 
requires the University to record that in 
some way that looks as if it never hap
pened. Just because its not prosecuted 
doesnt mean it didnt happen. People 
have the right to know that ... that is 
happening on campus, and its someBy SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The Student Senate unanimously 
passed a graffiti resolution at the last 
meeting specifically to prohibit any de
facement of Univer
sity property, pri
vate or public.
Funding and Recog
nition Chair Merle 
Atkinson said I be
lieve this policy is 
reasonable since it 
simply calls for stu
dents to use their 
common sense and 
respect property.
Prompted by the 
recent incidents of 
vandalism around 
the area of the 
Fence, the
resolutions purpose 
was to clarify and 
expand upon the 
graffiti regulations 
already in the hand
book. Freshman IM 
Senator and Cam
pus Affairs Chair BrendenMielke stated, 
The impetus of this resolution was cer
tainly the recent paint attacks on the 
trees and sidewalk around the Fence. 
We do not have problems with the paint
ing of the fence since it is a school tradi
tion, but it is wrong to [paint] the trees, 
since it could kill them.
Written by Senators Jeff Rand, a fresh
man CIT student, and TJ Sharpe, a 
sophomore psychology major, the resothing they need to be aware of.
The vigil, she said, will hopefully make 
people aware of what is going on.
Were hoping it will make a big im
pact. Wed like people to take note that 
it is happening, that the crime statistics 
are wrong, that people need to be aware 
of this. If they arent aware of this, it 
wont stop happening. The ideal would 
be the University would re-evaluate their 
policy dealing with rape and rape statis
tics.
The Student Dormitory Council (SDC) 
has worked on the vigil with the women, 
particularly helping with advertising 
through the programming committee, 
chaired by Heather Viehl, a junior math 
major.
I work with SDC, Mamell said, and 
the programming committee has been 
working on the advertising... and weve 
been getting a lot of support from all the 
members of SDC. [Viehl] has been help
ing out a lot.
Tonight, two women will speak on 
campus about rape. Jo Anne 
Evansgardner, a member of Pittsburgh 
Action Against Rape (PAAR), will be 
speaking at 6:30 pm about what to do if 
you or a friend are raped. At 7pm, Gwen 
Elliot, a Pittsburgh police officer, will be 
speaking about the legal issues involved 
in rape. The speeches will take place in 
the Donner Reading Room.
Marnell said she hoped the vigil would 
become an annual event, and said there 
would definitely be one next year.
We hope to be putting together a 
group, but at least the girls on my floor 
and I will be working on this continu
ously, she said. We are starting a cam
paign to get people knowledge of the law
lution also mentioned the current poster 
policy. According to the resolution, 
[a]nyone found writing on or otherwise 
defacing posters or bulletin boards will 
be found to be in violation of the graffiti 
policy.
Sharpe said that this stipulation was 
included because Campus Affairs con
siders defacement of posters as graffiti 
and a sign of disrespect. Sharpe also 
added, There is a proper time and place 
for graffiti, but it should not be damag
ing to the school or to the students. 
The resolution also stated that disci
plinary actions will be taken against 
offenders. Student Affairs, and Stu
dent Senate, when appropriate, are emand working to get it changed, or at least 
getting the university policy to change, 
Mamell commented.
She also said members of the campus 
community and administration had been 
very supportive, though organizations 
that had been contacted had shown 
mixed feelings about getting involved.
We received comments from some 
people in Student Affairs that they were 
supportive of [the vigil], and that they 
would be there. I sent email to Dean 
Murphy and President Mehrabian ... 
and hopefully they will be there. At 
Residence Life ... theyve all extended 
their support to us. I know just about 
everybody on campus has seen the ad
vertisements. We wanted to reach as 
many people as we 
could with it, because 
its something that 
touches everyone.
There will be at 
least one person out 
there who has been 
raped. There will be 
women from NOW 
[National Organiza
tion of Women] out 
there at the vigil. We 
hope that if anyone else on campus has 
been raped, theyll be out there, or at 
least seeing us doing this, because its a 
show of support for them, that they are 
a survivor... Survivorthats the term 
I was told should be used for this by a 
woman who has been raped. Thats what
I was asked to call it, said Marnell.
The Universitys policy says that 
sexual assault involves sexual contact 
against a persons will and without con
sent. Victims of sexual assault on cam
pus can seek help from the Campus 
Police, the Counseling Center, Student 
Health Services, Student Affairs, as well 
as Sexual Assault Advisors. The Advi
sors are students, administrators, fac
ulty, and staff members who victims can 
contact for information on medical and 
disciplinary resources, as well as emo
tional support 
[Ed. note: Tartan Assistant News Edi
tor Max Chittister assisted with this ar
ticle.]
resolution
powered to enforce the guidelines set 
forth in the Student Handbook.
In case of serious violations by any 
Senate-recognized organization, Senate 
can freeze their budget, revoke their 
subsidies, and/or revoke recognition.
Atkinson said the 
penalties provide 
a basis for obser
vance of the reso
lution.
Other matters 
discussed in the 
resolution re
garded chalk 
drawings on side
walks and black
boards. Since 
these are consid
ered non-perma
nent graffiti, they 
are permitted as 
long as they are 
not destructive or 
libelous.
Writing of the 
resolution began 
last month after 
discussions of graf
fiti problems on 
campus. Mielke explained, It took a 
month because there were some techni
cal problems with it. There were some 
ambiguous and redundant points in the 
article which needed clarified. They were 
not a serious matter and we eventually 
worked them out. Rand added, TJ and
I ran into problems because we didnt 
know resolution format, but the advice 
from Student Affairs and others helped 
us clearly state the problem.
Student project revamps 
campus shuttle routes
"Wed like people to take note that [rape] is 
happening, that the crime statistics are 
wrong
Chelsea Marnell 
Freshman architecture major
Senate ratifies new graffiti
Tartan File Photo
The Fence has long been an accessable on-campus location for student expression.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  13 March 1995
THIS JUST IN
New York Gov. signs bill 
legalizing death penalty
ALBANY, NY, March 7  On Tues
day, New York became the 38th U.S. 
state to legalize executions when Gov. 
George Pataki signed a bill restoring 
capital punishment. However, civil lib
erties groups have vowed to challenge 
the law.
Pataki, a Republican, reversed 18 
years of vetoes by his two Democratic 
predecessors, Hugh Carey and Mario 
Cuomo, by signing the bill passed by 
the state legislature.
The citizens of New York state have 
spoken loudly and clearly in their calls 
for justice for those who commit the 
most serious crimes by depriving other 
citizens of their lives, Pataki said at 
the signing ceremony.
The law states that New York can 
begin performing executions by lethal 
injection on September 1, 1995. The 
last execution which took place in New 
York was in August, 1963.
I think it is a bleak day for the 
citizens ofNew York, but we will launch 
a massive public education campaign, 
as well as possibly bringing litigation 
challenging the death penalty under
the state constitution, said Norman 
Seigel, presidentoftheNewYorkCivil 
Liberties Union.
The law provides for the death pen
alty for killers of police officers, prison 
guards, judges and witnesses. Serial 
killers, terrorists, and killers who tor
ture victims could also face execution, 
as would criminals convicted of mur
der in the course of a rape, burglary, 
kidnapping or robbery, or during a 
prison escape.
Women cannot be put to death while 
pregnant and no one under the age of 
18 can receive the death penalty.
Pataki, who said during his cam
paign that he would restore the death 
penalty, remarked at the signing cer
emony that the bill was good for law 
enforcement officers and for the fami
lies of murder victims.
Siegel, however, said that what the 
governor had told New Yorkers about 
the death penalty was not accurate, 
does not work, it is unfair and dis
criminatory in implementation, and 
that the state should not be in the 
business of premeditated executions.
Jordan leaves White Sox
CHICAGO, March 10  Three-time 
NBA Most Valuable Player Michael 
Jordan said Friday that he has decided 
to retire from the sport of baseball be
cause he thinks his improvement in the 
game has stalled, according to the Asso
ciated Press.
In a statement released by his agent, 
Jordan said that baseballs ongoing strike 
has made it increasingly difficult to 
continue my development at a rate that 
meets my standard.
In closing the 18-month baseball chap
ter of his career, Jordan cleared the way 
for a comeback to the NBA and the 
Chicago Bulls.
Hes goingto play basketball, a source 
said.
Feuling speculation that his return to 
basketball was imminent, Jordan prac
ticed with the Bulls for a third straight 
session on Thursday.
Former Bulls teammate B J Armstrong 
said, It sounds good  a guy retires for 
a year and a half, comes back... it could 
go on and on if you win... quite a story. 
However, a source close to Jordan, 
speaking on the condition he not be 
identified, said that the seven-time scor
ing champion, who retired before the 
1993-94 season, had not settled on an 
exact timetable for his return. Jordan 
wants to improve his overall condition
ing and hone his shooting touch before 
deciding on an exact return date.
It wont be tonight, tomorrow or the 
next day, the source said. But it will be 
soon. ... Hes going to take a couple of 
weeks to tune up.... There are still a few 
pieces to fall into place... .He wont rush 
back to improve the (teams) playoff 
position. It doesnt matter to him as 
much whether they play the number 1 
or 2 seed as whether hes in real good 
shape.
Bulls coach Phil Jackson said he and 
Jordan had discussed a return to bas
ketball last fall. He and I spoke about 
this possibility happening last Septem
ber and October. Its a reality... but its 
still not a reality. So were not pinning 
any hopes and were not trying to throw 
up a balloon or a kite thats not ready to 
fly. NBA spokesman John Maroon said 
there would be no league obstacles to 
Jordan rejoining the Bulls.
Jordan, 32, led the Bulls to NBA titles 
in 1991,1992 and 1993. He then shocked 
the sports world on October 6, 1993, 
retiring with a 32.3-point scoring aver
age, the best in league history. Jordan 
said he had reached the pinnacle, had 
nothing left to prove and just wanted to 
watch the grass grow.
Jordan has not verified or denied the
Two Americans killed in Karachi
WASHINGTON, March 8  On 
Wednesday, President Clinton expressed 
outrage over the attack that killed two 
U.S. consulate workers and wounded a 
third in Pakistan. He vowed that the 
United States would help track down 
the attackers.
The attack, which was one of the first 
against foreigners in the capital city of 
Karachi, will not change First Lady 
Hillary Rodham Clintons plans to visit 
Pakistan later this month during a visit 
to South Asia.
The attack on American diplomatic 
personnel in Pakistan ... outrages all 
Americans, the President said in a state
ment issued by the White House. I have 
instructed relevant U.S. government 
agencies to work with the government of 
Pakistan to apprehend the perpetrators 
of this cowardly act.
He added that [a]ttacks such as these 
should make the international commu
nity rededicate itself to efforts to stamp 
out terrorism everywhere.
The Americans were killed at about 
7:50 am local time, when a shuttle bus 
carrying them to work was ambushed. 
The shuttle had stopped at a traffic light 
when at least one gunman leapt from a 
nearby taxi, shot out the windshield 
with an AK-47 assault rifle and sprayed 
the van, hitting all three Americans, the 
State Department said. The Pakistani 
driver was unhurt.
The consulate bus appears to have 
been deliberately targeted, which indi
cates that this was a terrorist attack, 
State Department spokesman Christine 
Shelley said. She added that that Paki
stani authorities have stepped up secu
rity for the consulate and its personnel.
She also said that the FBI was sending 
a team of forensic investigators to 
Karachi, and the State Departments 
Bureau of Diplomatic Security is send
ing personnel to boost security at the 
consulate in Karachi and the embassy in 
Islamabad.
The dead workers were identified as 
Gary Durell, 45, a communications tech
nician from Alliance, Ohio; and Jackie 
Van Landingham, 33, a consulate secre
tary from Camden, South Carolina. The 
third victim, Mark McCloy, who worked 
in the consulates mailroom, was 
wounded and hospitalized in stable con
dition.
NBC Nightly News reported that at 
least one of the victims was working for 
the CIA.
The CIA was not immediately avail
able for comment.
Secretary of State Warren Christo
pher issued a statement saying that the 
United States will use every means at 
our disposal to bring those responsible
for this crime to justice. He called the 
attack yet another reminder of the dan
gers we confront in the worldwide 
struggle against terrorism.
The State Department issued a state
ment late Wednesday saying that it knew 
of no threats against other U.S. citizens, 
their family members, or U.S. govern
ment facilities in the rest of Pakistan. 
However, the message urged all Ameri
cans to take appropriate security pre
cautions.
The government of Pakistan has been 
officially notified and has agreed to pro
vide all necessary protection for all U.S. 
citizens in Pakistan, the statement said.
IBM victorious in disability lawsuit
HASTINGS, Minn, March 8 (D J)A 
jury decided today that International 
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) is not 
liable for disabling injuries a former 
secretary said she suffered from using 
an IBM computer keyboard.
It was the first case of its kind against 
IBM to go to trial.
Nancy Urbanski claimed the company 
did not adequately warn her about the 
potential for repetitive stress injuries to 
her hands and arms that left her unable 
to perform her job or household tasks.
Urbanskis attorneys argued during 
the nine-week trial in state District Court 
that IBM knew of the possible dangers 
and warned its own employees.
Attorneys for IBM argued that com
puter keyboards are simply tools that 
need to be used responsibly. Lead attor
ney Michael Cerussi said any tool used 
long enough will cause fatigue and per
haps worse. But he said companies 
should not have to put warning labels on 
everything.
Thousands of lawsuits have been filed 
alleging that computer manufacturers 
were negligent in designing keyboards 
and warning users. This is the first such 
case against IBM to go to trial.
Urbanski also sued Apple Computer 
Inc. That suit was part of the same trial 
until Apple settled last week. The com
pany said it did so because of errors by 
its attorneys, not because its keyboards 
were at fault. Terms of the settlement 
were not disclosed.
Dole proposes Cabinet cuts
WASHINGTON, March 10 (DJ)  
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, the 
early GOP Presidential front-runner, 
today proposed ehminating four Cabi
net departments: Education, Energy, 
Commerce, and Housing and Urban De
velopment.
In a speech to the National Newspa
per Association, Dole said Republicans
needed to do more than cut wasteful 
government spending as they try to scale 
back the reach of the federal govern
ment.
And I think the best place to start is 
with four of the most ineffective, bur
densome and meddlesome depart
ments, Dole said. The departments 
employ a combined 74,000 workers and 
cost more than $70 billion a year, he 
said.
Dole said the Education Department 
had become captive of the teachers 
unions and was presiding over a decline 
in national education standards while 
seizing power from parents and local 
school boards.
HUD, he said, was supposed to be a 
beacon of Lyndon Johnsons Great Soci
ety but instead was promoting a public 
housing system that was one of the last 
bastions of socialism in the world... We 
are the landlords of misery.
Dole said he voted to create the De
partment of Energy in 1977 during the 
energy crisis, but said the agency has 
lost its focus, spending twice as much on 
defense programs and environmental 
cleanup than energy. Those functions, 
he said, could be folded into other de
partments.
And, he said, the Commerce Depart
ment, created in 1903, had outlived its 
usefulness and was largely irrelevant in 
the new global economy, too often trying 
to regulate markets that should be left 
alone.
League to add expansion teams
PALM BEACH, Fla., March 9 - 
Tampa Bay and Phoenix will receive 
major league baseball franchises, as
suming the players strike is resolved by 
then. The new teams would begin play 
in 1998.
The franchises were approved today 
during a joint meeting of the National 
and American Leagues. The Phoenix 
team will be called the Arizona Dia
mondbacks, and the other, for now, is 
being called the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. 
However, the name is being put to a fan 
vote.
The new teams will cost $130 million 
apiece, an increase of $35 million from 
the price paid by the Colorado Rockies 
and Florida Marlins, who made their 
debut in 1993.
News Briefs Courtesy 
Dow Jones News Service
Edited by 
Max Chittister
What is AppleCare?
AppleCare is an extended service plan similar to the one-year limited 
warranty coverage that came with your Apple product when you 
purchased it. AppleCare coverage will begin immediately after your 
original warranty expires and will feature:
 100% parts and labor protection 
Unlimited repairs
 Quality ser vice by authorized Apple-trained technicians 
Genuine Apple parts
What products are covered?
Virtually everything Apple makes is covered, including CPUs, storage 
devices, PowerBook products, scanners, printers, CD-ROMs, monitors, 
modems and Newton products.
What are the service options?
There are two service options.
 On-site service (available for most products): An Apple-trained 
technician will come to your home or office to make repairs.
 Carry-In service: You may take your product to any one of 
over 2,000 authorized service locations nationwide for repair.
For PowerBook and Newton service: 
You have a choice of carrying your product to a local, authorized 
service location (Carry-In service), or using even more convenient Mail' 
In service. With Mail-In, an air carrier will be dispatched to your 
location to pick up and deliver your product. Repairs will be performed 
at an Apple authorized service location. Get this convenient service 
option for the same low price.
m.
How do I order AppleCare?
Contact us by phone, fax, or email at the following location:
Computer Repair, Cyert Hall, Room A-64
Computing Services
Carnegie Mellon University (412) 268-2661
4910 Forbes Avenue (412) 268-8192 fax
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 Email: org.acs.repair
r'
Warranty evaluation and checkout will be completed at no charge j 
(a $25.00 value) when you present this coupon with the purchase |
of an AppleCare service contract.
L.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  13 March 1995
Crime and Incident Report
2/12 DOMESTIC VIOj^NCE, 11:40 pm. An officer was 
dispatched to Mudge House reing a reported roommate as
sault. The victim said that it 
started over use of the computer 
iwned by her roommate. They 
argued, and then the victim 
claimed she was slapped and 
junched by her roommate. The 
roommate said there was a verconfrontation, but that no 
blows were exchanged. There was 
no visible evidence of injury to 
either party. Both declined to be 
seen by EMS. Both parties were 
advised to talk with Campus 
Housing to work out their differ
ences.
2/14 HARASSMENT BY 
COMMUNICATION, 2:37 am. 
The guard working the Commu
nications Desk in the Student 
Center received an obvious prank 
call. There were several people 
heard over the phone laughing 
. one voice saying loudly that 
he was being killed. Officers went 
to the room where the calls were 
from. At first, the residents dethe call, and then said We 
were just being stupid. They were 
very indifferent and said that the 
police were making too big a deal 
out of it. A visitor, who was on the 
phone at the time, also said We 
were just being stupid, and that 
they had no reason for singling 
out Campus Police for the call. 
The consequences of their actions 
were explained to them, and they 
were told to go to Student Affairs 
to settle who really was to blame. 
A bottle of vodka was in plain 
view on the coffee table, and it 
ras confiscated.
2/17 MEDICAL EMER
GENCY, 9:35 pm. A student re
quested assistance from Campus 
Police for her friend, who she 
believed had alcohol poisoning.
Officers and EMS responded to 
Morewood E-Tower, where the 
victim was vomiting in a bath
room. He could talk, but he was 
not sensitive to pain. Apparently 
the victim had consumed several 
beers and a third of a bottle of 
vodka that night. He became com
bative when he had to be moved 
from the bathroom to the eleva
tor, but he settled down once he 
was on the stretcher. He was 
transported to Presbyterian Hos
pital.
2/19 BURGLARY, 1:58 pm. 
The victim contacted Campus 
Police and reported that he woke 
up at 1 pm and found a white 
male standing at the foot of the 
bed. He was going through the 
victims closet, and was holding 
his wallet. The victim asked the 
actor what he was doing, and he 
replied Is Tony here? Tonys my 
brother, he lives here. The vic
tim told him Tony doesnt live 
here. The actor asked Is this 
811 or 812? He then gave his 
name and left the room. The vic
tim called the front desk, and the 
attendant said that he saw some
one fitting the description leave 
the building. The desk attendant 
told Campus Police that there 
have been several incidents of 
this nature in the building. The 
actor is described as a white male, 
six feet tall, 170 to 175 pounds, 
dark hair, blackbaseball cap, and 
a white, green, and black plaid 
shirt.
2/20 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
8 am. An officer was dispatched 
to Baker Hall for a vandalism 
report. Someone had gained en
try to one of the department di
rectories and rearranged the 
words to describe various sexual 
encounters and parts of a 
womans body. Another direc
tory was rearranged similarly.
The letters in both directories 
were removed and placed in the 
departments office. A witness 
said that he encountered a male 
rearranging the letters on Satur
day 2/18. He believed that the 
male was part of a buggy group 
that uses Baker Hall. Student 
Activities is investigating which 
groups use Baker Hall.
2/20 SUSPICIOUS PERSON,
4:28 pm. A complainant stated 
that he walked into a co-workers 
cubicle to find an unknown male 
standing in the area. When asked 
if he needed help, the actor stated 
he was looking for Jack Dempt. 
The complainant knows every
one in the area and knew there 
was no such person working 
there, so he phoned the police. 
The actor was a black male, ap
proximately 5 feet 9nches, thin 
build, in his mid-30s, no facial 
hair, and wearing a bright coat, 
possibly green, and a blue cap.
2/21 RECKLESS DRIVING,
2:07 am. A guard radioed for a 
police unit in the CFA lot for a car 
that was driving in a reckless 
manner. An officer responded and 
spoke with the driver. The driver 
admitted to working his car. 
The guard said he watched the 
driver run through the stop sign 
at the front of MMCH and into 
the CFA parking lot at about 35 
miles an hour. He screeched to a 
stop near the door of CFA and 
then accelerated quickly into a 
parking space. The driver was 
issued an internal citation for 
reckless driving.
2/22 TRESPASS, 1:16 am. The 
complainant phoned Campus 
Police and said he has encoun
tered a white male, 6 feet tall, 
wearing a green jacket and sun
glasses on the secondfloor of Cyert 
Hall. The complainant did not
NEWS is looking for writers.
for the Tartan Newspaper
interesting people.
campus events.
Ed Hayes at x8-2111 or stop by the 
Tartan Office, SC 104.
believe the actor was authorized 
to be in this area. The second 
floor of Cyert can not be entered 
without the key to the elevator or 
the stairwell. He later observed 
the actor enter the kitchen/lounge 
area. The complainant entered 
the lounge. The actor seemed sur
prised to see the complainant. He 
said something about buying a 
Coke. The actor then went to the 
machine, but did not buy any
thing. The actor was later picked 
up by police, who placed him un
der arrest.
2/23 SAFETY CONDITION,
8:34 am. A complainant called 
Campus Police to rope off a sec
tion of Hamerschlag Hall due to a 
section of the roof falling onto the 
Bureau of Mines Road. A check of 
the area found that a section of 
the decorative tiles from the roof 
of Hamerschlag Hall fell onto the 
road by the overlook. A call had 
been placed to the roofing con
tractor. As a safety precaution 
the section of the road between 
Scaife Hall and Wean hall is 
blocked off with barricades and 
police line tape.
2/24 FIGHT/UNDERAGE 
DRINKING, 1:36 am. While on 
a previous call at Mudge House, 
an officer was notified that a fight 
was in progress outside Mudge. 
In the lobby, one person was 
shouting obscenities at someone 
else in the lobby. When asked 
what the problem was, the stu
dent who was shouting said 
Nothing. The shouter was told 
of the reported fight, and he did 
not want to implicate the other 
person involved. He appeared to 
be drunk, and smelled heavily of 
alcohol. The officer asked to see a 
photo ID, since the student did 
not appear to be 21. While he was 
pulling out his drivers license, 
the officer noticed a second
drivers license with a birth date 
of 1971, which would make the 
student over 21. The license was 
confiscated, and an internal cita
tion for underage drinking was 
issued through Student Affairs.
2/26 UNDERAGE DRINK
ING/MARIJUANA PARTY,
12:48 am. A guard radioed that 
he smelled a strong odor of mari
juana coming from a room in 
Doherty Grad House. When offic
ers knocked on the door, they 
could hear rustling coming from 
inside. They had to yell through 
the door to get anyone to answer. 
The resident who answered the 
door was very nervous and glassy
eyed. The smell of marijuana in 
the room was heavy, so the offic
ers asked if he would mind them 
looking around a little bit, and 
the resident said no. On a table 
top, they found a pipe that is 
usually used to smoke marijuana. 
There were six more people in a 
large bedroom behind the living 
room. There was a large amount 
of beer in the room, as well as a 
pipe, a bong, and several small 
plants growing in an aluminum 
foil-lined, flourescent-lighted 
closet. One of the visitors was in 
posession of a small bag of sus
pected marijuana. He was issued 
a Pennsylvania State Citation for 
Disorderly Conduct. The resi
dents of the room were issued 
CMU citations for posession of 
alcohol underage and smoking 
marijuana.
2/27 THEFT, 1:55 pm. The 
complainant called Campus Po
lice and stated that since Janu
ary, 1995, someone removed 
boxed computer equipment from 
the Graduate Computer Lab in 
Porter hall. The items missing 
are nine 16MD IBM memory up
grade kits, two 8MD IBM memory 
upgrade kits, and two SCSI hard
drives. The estimated value jof 
the stolen items is $9,353. The 
serial numbers were not recorded. 
The complainant said that Civil 
Engineering would be posting a 
reward for information.
2/27 IMMOBILIZED VE
HICLE, 3:43 pm. Campus Police 
received a call that a Ryder truck, 
was stuck in the mud on the cut ; 
between Wean and Porter Halls. 
The driver said he had made' a 
delivery to Wean Hall and was 
attempting to turn the truck 
around when it became stuck. : 
The driver said that once the truck : 
went off the pavement and onto 
the grass, he noticed that the 
wheel were spinning, so he trid 
to make his way across the cut ! 
and onto the opening sidewalk 
near Porter Hall. The truck sank 
approximately 10 feet from the 
sidewalk. At that point, Dining 
Services was notified of the need 
of a tow truck. The truck created 
grooves and cuts in the grass over 
a 100-foot area.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident report under 
the following guidelines:
 Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief, the News Editor, and ' 
the staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of com
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
Compiled by 
MAX CHITTISTER
0 I E J T AE BIC A H FOOD
413 South Craig Street 
681-8620
TRY US FOR LUNCH ...
- Daily Lunch & Dinner Specials
- Giant Salads
- The Best Burgers in Oakland
- New Bar Munchie Menu
SUNDAY HAPPY HOUR
3 pm - 5 pm
Great Drink Special Prices
TRY US FOR DINNER...
- Hardwood Grilled Steaks and 
Chicken
- Home-Smoked Hickory Ribs
- Delicious Vegetarian Dishes and 
Low-fat Pastas
TRY OUR ALL YOU CAN EAT 
SUNDAY BRUNCH
11 am-3 pm 
$7.95 Adult 
$4.95 Child
TRY OUR BEERS...
- Beer Promotions Friday Nights with 
Giveaways
- Rotating selection of 10 Microbrews 
on tap and 20 in bottles
- Draft and bottle Microbrews of the 
Day
- Ladies Night - Friday Nights
WRITE...
MEET...
COVER...
CONTACT.
MANNES
COLLEGE OF MUSIC
Artistry fi Community
At Man lies they go together. The skills, understanding and originality of 
artistry are fostered by a superb faculty in a caring and supportive 
community. That's why Mannes graduates succeed.
^ New School for Social Research
Major Studies in all orchestral instruments, 
puno, organ, voice and opera, guitar, 
historicr.l performance, composition, theory 
an<l conducting.
Programs of study: Master of Music, Post
graduate Diploma, Bachelor of Music, Bachelor of 
Science, Dipioma, Artist's Diploma, 
cholarships awarded in all majors.
rmitory rooms are available.
for additional information about the 
College. Application and Audition 
^PPOintment: Write or call Marilyn Groves,
rector of Admissions, The Mannes College 
of Music, 150 West 85th Street, New York,
NY >0024, 800-292-3040 or 212-580-0210
New York City Auditions:
January 4, 1995;
February 27 - March 3, 1995;
May 23 - May 26, 1995;
August 1995 dates to be announced.
Chicago Auditions:
January 31, 1995 at Fine Arts 
Building
Los Angeles Auditions:
February 1, 1995 at The Music 
Center of Los Angeles County
San Francisco Auditions:
February 2, 1995 at War 
Memorial Opera House
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Sunday

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon sheds some light on campus security
Theres no reason to be in the dark about campus security. A team of Carnegie Mellon police officers, security guards, and housing and student affairs staff 
members work to keep students, faculty, staff and visitors informed and safe on the campus and adjacent areas. These professionals are concerned with the 
safety and welfare of the campus community and are best able to answer questions about campus security.
Campus Security Staff
How many police officers are on campus?
Twenly-one armed officers constitute the police staff. They are empowered 
to make an arrest on Carnegie Mellon property or any areas adjacent to the 
university. Additionally, there are 25 security guards, five radio dispatchers and 
two traffic monitors on the staff. Foot patrols by guards support the officers 
surveillance of the campus academic buildings and residence halls.
What can the officers do in an emergency?
Officers, including three sergeants, a lieutenant and the director of security, are 
sworn and commissioned under the General Laws of the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania. They are certified under Act 235 prior to duty and receive firearms 
and Emergency Medical Training. Officers also receive specialized training in 
current concerns, such as auto theft, drug awareness, crime search procedure 
and hazardous materials. Sworn officers receive their authority from Act 501 of 
the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes. The Act reads: Such policemen, so 
appointed, shall severally possess and exercise all the powers of a police officer 
in this Commonwealth, in and upon, and in the immediate and adjacent vicinity 
of, the property of the corporation." Officers are also trained under Act 120  
Municipal Police Training and Education Act.
What authority do security guards have?
While they are not sworn officers, each guard receives orientation training in 
areas such as building security, key control, procedures related to arrests by 
officers, and criminal and patrol procedures. Guards also train in specialty areas 
including medical emergencies and hazardous wastes. They assist the campus 
police in all of these areas.
How do the security guards supplement campus police patrols?
The guards regularly patrol academic buildings and residence halls every night 
of the year. During the day, two traffic monitors also patrol campus parking 
areas.
A Safe City and Campus
What about crime in Pittsburgh?
Pittsburgh's relatively low incidence of crime, along with its educational, cultural, 
sports and geographic benefits, helped to secure its status as the most livable 
city in America. The City of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County Police Forces, as 
well as the Pennsylvania State Police and the FBI, are the major elements in a 
crime-prevention network that includes the campus police departments of all 
Pittsburgh colleges and universities. Students attending Carnegie Mellon benefit 
from the cooperative relationship Campus Police enjoys with federal, state, 
county and city police agencies.
What does this cooperation involve?
The university's Department of Security participates with area law enforcement 
agencies in apprehending alleged criminals and in joint crime prevention 
programs, training classes, community service activities and memberships 
in mutual professional organizations.
How are crimes on campus reported and to whom?
It is important that all crimes occurring on campus be immediately reported 
to Campus Police to ensure that appropriate action is taken.
Crimes occurring on campus can be reported in person, or by calling Campus 
Police at 268-2323 any time of the day or night.
What happens when a student discovers a theft or other crime?
Reports of theft or other crimes are reported to Campus Police for investigation. 
Resident assistants are key in reporting criminal activity in the residence halls, 
and are required to keep a log of incidents occurring during their shifts. When 
appropriate, staff from Housing or Student Affairs may be involved in answering 
a call for assistance.
What about reporting Incidents outside of the residence halls?
There are 34 police emergency phones located across the campus. Without 
dialing, the caller is immediately in contact with the Campus Police. The 
location of the call is automatically recorded and response is immediate.
Campus Police may also be reached by calling 268-2323, or simply 82323 
on any campus phone.
Are firearms permitted on campus?
No. The university prohibits the possession or use of firearms, as well as any 
other weapons, in or near the residence halls, or on university property. Only 
sworn Campus Police personnel are authorized to carry weapons while on duty. 
While off duty, no member of the department is permitted to possess a weapon 
on campus property. Police training includes daylight and nighttime qualification 
with firearms training including the legal, moral and practical aspects of carrying 
a weapon.
Does the university consider criminal records in admission 
or employment?
Yes, for specific job classifications, such as security personnel. The application 
for admission to Carnegie Mellon does not request information concerning any 
previous criminal convictions; consequently the criminal records of applicants 
for admission to the university are not reviewed by the Office of Admission.
The university recognizes its responsibility to ensure the safety of the campus 
community and therefore evaluates an enrolled students status with the 
university in the event of his or her criminal conviction in public court.
What is the university's disciplinary role if a student is convicted 
of a criminal offense?
The University Committee on Discipline may review the case when a student has 
been convicted in public courts of serious crimes. Special attention is given to 
circumstances which constitute a potential threat against the university's ability 
to function in whole or in part. In such a review the committee will determine 
whether the students presence at the university will endanger the university 
community. For details on the disciplinary review of students, consult the 
Student Handbook.
How is the campus environment maintained for safe lighting 
and walkways?
Security personnel assess the physical condition of campus facilities  
including landscaping, grounds keeping and outdoor lighting  on their regular 
patrols of university property. All security staff and members of the campus 
community can report deficient physical conditions to the universitys Physical 
Plant via the campus-wide electronic mail system or by calling the Department 
of Security directly.
Building Safety
How are university facilities and programs accessible to students, 
employees and guests?
As a private university, Carnegie Mellon does have the right to limit access to its 
campus and to control activities on the campus. But, in the spirit of academic 
freedom and free expression of ideas, the university permits and encourages 
freedom of speech and assembly by all persons. This includes the distribution of 
leaflets and petitions, as well as demonstrations or protests involving speaking, 
discussion or the distribution of information outside university buildings.
What restrictions apply to such activities?
The only limits on these activities are the rights of the members of the university 
community and the maintenance of the normal functioning of the university. No 
activities which harm individuals, damage or deface property, block access to 
university buildings or disrupt classes will be permitted. Public events, such as 
lectures, plays and concerts, are, of course, open to the community on a ticket or 
free admission basis.
What types of student housing are available?
Carnegie Mellon has a number of traditional residence halls with common bath 
facilities as well as a number of residence halls with private or semi-private baths. 
A number of single sex areas as well as some coed facilities are available for 
undergraduates. As a rule, areas may be coed or single sex as bathroom facilities 
permit.-Also offered are a variety of apartment spaces both on campus in 
university-owned buildings as well as off campus in buildings rented for 
undergraduate housing.
How are room requests handled?
The university's housing system is basically a seniority one: with seniors 
choosing first, followed by juniors and then by sophomores. In March, 
upperclassmen may select their roommates and specific rooms in seniority order 
for the fall semester. The university traditionally assigns between 1,000 and 1,100 
entering freshmen to available spaces. The order in which freshmen pay their 
deposits to the Office of Admission determines the order in which housing 
preference requests are honored. The university is normally able to accommodate 
preferences for assignment to single sex areas, but assignment to coed areas is 
not always possible.
Can students change rooms during the semester?
Housing assignments are virtually immutable at the beginning of the fall 
semester, but once into the academic year room change requests can be 
accommodated. The best time to make a room change is at the end of the fall 
semester, when the university traditionally has well over 100 vacancies to offer 
students who request room changes.
How are guests admitted or identified in the residence halls?
All university buildings are locked and permit entrance only to people with keys 
or people accompanying residents who have their own keys. At the three 
buildings with front desks, visitors are asked to present their Carnegie Mellon 
photo ID card. Other individuals are directed to the centrex telephone to call the 
student whom they are visiting to meet them at the front desk.
How are the entrances of buildings secured?
Every outside door is checked daily to ensure the entrance is functioning prop
erly. The university has replaced the fire alarm system in several of our buildings, 
where the plan is to use one door as a main entrance and exit and to have the side 
doors operate only as emergency exits. All of our residence halls will soon be on 
a similar plan with only one entrance and exit. Side doors would operate only 
when a fire alarm is pulled or during a power outage or similar emergency.
What are the standard security features used in the residence halls?
Rooms in the university's residence halls are secured by the Best Locking 
System. In most cases, these locks are bolt locks that provide an optimum degree 
of security for individual rooms. When residents report keys missing or lost, or 
fail to return keys at the end of the academic year, the university quickly changes 
the lock and issues new keys to the residents. The university's procedure assures 
that only the current residents of a particular room have keys to that room. All of 
the first floor dormitory screens are "security screens," constructed of a heavy 
mesh in frames attached to the window frame itself.
Who is on-duty" at the residence halls?
The university relies on the strength of its competent resident assistant (RA) staff. 
There are four full-time professional residence life administrators, called area 
coordinators, and 70 student resident assistants who live in the residence halls 
and have a variety of responsibilities for administering the halls.
How are student housing residents informed about security 
procedures and enforcement?
Via Student Affairs, the resident assistance staff is regularly informed, as is the 
campus community, of various health and safety concerns. All resident assistants 
receive an extensive week-long training session for preparation in aiding and 
advising students in all non-academic issues. Campus Police sanctioned per
sonal safety practices are taught to the RAs who then advise residents through 
bulletin boards, meetings and workshops as needed, including programs to 
heighten student awareness of personal concerns such as the dangers of drug 
and alcohol abuse and the problems of suicide and acquaintance rape. Security 
information programs are presented by security personnel to resident students 
at least once an academic year with special attention to those areas that may 
be experiencing unusual security problems, as well as off-campus rental units 
in locations where students have to walk on public streets to travel to and 
from campus.
Are there special security procedures during low-occupancy periods 
such as holidays and vacation periods?
During Thanksgiving break and spring break special attention is given to making 
sure that buildings stay locked and secure with extra security monitoring. During 
the winter break (from mid-December to mid-January) all but one of the residence 
facilities are locked and inaccessible by the normal residents. Morewood Gardens 
is offered as an alternative for those students who cannot travel (approximately 30 
or 40 students). Morewood Gardens is monitored via its front desk on a 24-hour 
basis. The Campus Police naturally increase their patrols of Morewood Gardens 
area during the winter break's low occupancy period.
What is the university's policy on the housing of guests?
Generally, guests are allowed in residence hall rooms if all residents of the room 
agree to the arrangement. University policy permits students to have guests stay 
in their room for two days before obtaining permission from the Housing Office to 
allow for a longer stay. With that exception, we are not normally able to provide 
housing for guests of students or nonstudents during the academic year. 
Vacancies where they exist are only offered as permanent spaces to other 
undergraduates interested in living in university housing for the remainder of the 
academic year. The housing office can answer specific questions regarding the 
availability of accommodations for students and guests.
Safety Communications
How Is the campus community informed of the security, safety 
procedures and crime prevention programs?
Campus media and publications specific to security and safety issues regularly 
carry news and information for the university community. Weekly media include 
the student newspaper. The Tartan, and The 8-1/2 x 11 News. A brochure about 
the Campus Police offers details of shuttle and escort services for students. The 
Student Handbook is updated annually and provides details about policies and 
procedures. The widely read campus computer bulletin board is also used as an 
immediate means of communication.
The Campus Watch Program
The Campus Watch Program is designed to increase the awareness of the entire 
community at Carnegie Mellon. The concept of Campus Watch includes two 
simple aims:
1. The sharing of crime information by Campus Police.
2. The involvement of the entire community in reporting suspicious activity 
or actual crime commission.
Crime Alerts
Campus Police issues alerts to the community about recently committed crimes. 
These include crimes committed on the campus as well as in the neighborhoods of 
the city surrounding the university. These alerts are issued about crime that is a 
threat to members of the campus community. Crime Alerts give as much detail as 
possible about the crime itself, as well as any description of suspects or vehicle. 
Names of victims are never included in the alerts. The alerts end with tips to avoid 
becoming a victim.
Newsletters
The Department of Security publishes a monthly newsletter, the Crime Watch. "The 
newsletter provides a summary of crime during the past month. It also advises the 
campus about recent crime trends such as con artists or harassing phone calls. 
Seasonal alerts will be presented to help inform the campus about expected crime. 
Specialized crime tips will be presented about topics such as how to safely use the 
Automatic Banking Machines.
Crime Prevention Education
Through the year, the Security Department's Crime Prevention Unit is available to 
present safety and security seminars in residence halls, department offices and any 
other setting both on and off campus. These seminars can be tailored to meet the 
needs of the group. The topics range from personal safety, rape prevention, 
residence security, office security, self-defense tactics, vehicle theft and other 
topics. These seminars can be arranged by calling the Campus Police at ext. 82323.
Crime Information Line
The Campus Police Department has a 24-hour Crime Information Line that uses 
voice mail technology to provide crime information to the campus. The Crime 
Information Line may be accessed at any time from a touch-tone telephone by 
calling 268-4400. The caller will be guided through a menu of such topics as:
 The most recent Crime Alert
 Highlights of weekly crimes and incidents
 Monthly crime prevention tips
Drugs and Alcohol
What is Carnegie Mellons policy on alcoholic beverages and drugs?
The universitys faculty, administrators and staff recognize the responsibility 
and potential harm inherent in the use of alcoholic beverages. The university 
is committed to support the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and 
reflects that support in its policies and procedures.
What is the Pennsylvania law concerning alcoholic beverages?
The Commonwealth law states that a person who is less than 21 years of age and 
who attempts to purchase, purchases, consumes, possesses or knowingly and 
intentionally transports any alcohol, liquor or malt beverages within the state 
commits a summary offense. Misrepresentation of age to a licensed dealer or 
other persons who sell or furnish intoxicating liquors constitutes a third degree 
misdemeanor. Likewise, a person commits a third degree misdemeanor for selling 
or providing alcoholic beverages to a known minor.
What is the policy for alcoholic beverages on campus or at 
Carnegie Mellon events?
The university follows the Commonwealth's law regarding intoxicating beverages. 
Students are expected to conduct themselves both individually and collectively in 
a responsible manner. Abusive or excessive consumption of alcohol resulting in 
interference with the rights of other persons, personal injury or damage to property 
will result in severe disciplinary action. Violations of the university's policy can lead 
to a fine imposed by the university and the possibility of suspension and expulsion. 
Pfenning Social Events with Alcohol: Things You Should Know is a brochure 
that outlines the university policy on alcohol and includes a form outlining the 
responsibility involved with serving alcohol at an event. For more information, 
refer to the Student Handbook or contact Student Affairs.
What about drugs on campus?
Campus Police are instructed to turn over to the Narcotics Squad of the Pittsburgh 
Police any significant quantity of dangerous drugs discovered in the course of 
performing their duty. The medically unsupervised use or distribution of potentially 
harmful drugs such as marijuana, hallucinogens, amphetamines, barbituates and 
opiates is illegal and subject to very harsh penalties. While the university does not 
assume the responsibility of acting as an arm of the law, members of the academic 
community have no immunity from the enforcement of the law. Distribution and use 
of these drugs may threaten the physical and mental health of the user, as well as 
the welfare of other students and the academic community. The disciplinary policy 
of the university permits taking action beyond, or separate from, any which may be 
taken by civil authorities. Also, the university cannot and does not deny access to 
its property to law enforcement agents seeking to uphold the Federal and 
Pennsylvania Drug Laws. The Student Handbook further outlines Carnegie Mellons 
drug policy.
This report is published in compliance with 
Pennsylvania Legislative Act 73, Section 3:
Crime Statistics Reports and Security Policies and 
Procedures, and Federal Public Law 101-542, Title II, 
Crime Awareness and Campus Security Act of 1990.
For additional copies or more information, 
contact the Department of Security at 412-268-2323. 
Published January 1995.
CarnegieMellon

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  13 March 19955
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT 
SENATE
STUDENT SENATE
i Meeting of 7 March 1995
Roll was taken at 5 pm. Meeting was 
called to order at 5:05 pm.
Senators Present: Adomi (CIT), Ardire 
(IM), Atkinson (CIT), Bielke (CIT), Boyle 
(CFA), Coster (CIT), Dircksen (Heinz), 
Gal-or (CIT), Gallo (HSS), Gonzalez 
(MCS), Grant (Heinz), Holzman (CIT), 
Hudson (HSS), Keir (CIT), Lin (CFA), 
Mielke (IM), Mueller (CIT), Patel (CIT), 
Perry (CIT), Rand (SCS), Sharpe (HSS), 
Studarus (Misc), Talley (CFA), Tuxen 
(CFA).
Senators Absent: Babyak (MCS), 
Benowitz (HSS), Cote (GSIA), Demasi 
(MCS), Franklin (HSS), Miller (GSIA).
Approval of the Minutes:
Minutes from 2/21 were approved.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Martin Dixon): This weeks movies 
are: Thursday, No Pets; Friday, Clerks; 
and Sunday, Count Dracula. Karen 
Goldberg will be playing in the Mudge 
Lounge at 7:30 on Wednesday, March 8. 
We would like to present our Outstand
ing Ex-Officio Reporter award to Adam 
Davis of the SDC.
GSO (Oliver Schulte): No report.
Greek Council (Christine Halberstadt): 
Greek Sing is on Saturday, March 11, at 
7 pm in the Soldiers and Sailors Hall. 
Tickets can be purchased at the door and 
will benefit the Make-a-Wish founda
tion.
Faculty Senate (Anne Shields): The 
Faculty Senate heard a speech from 
Martin Prekop, Dean of the College of 
Fine Arts, and a message from Dr. 
Mehrabian saying that the bboard cen
sorship committee will be issuing a re
port in mid-March. Issues discussed 
were faculty review and service pay
ments.
Student Affairs (Kevin Hughes): 
Signups for Pre-College counselors will 
continue through March 13 in the Resi
dence Life Office. It will be held from 
June 18 to August 7, and will pay $1,600. 
On March 15 the WestPACS job fair will 
be held.
SDC (Adam Davis): Saturdays movie is 
Interview with the Vampire. Elections 
will be held this week. A survey about 
cable in dorm rooms will be distributed 
along with housing signups. As prom
ised, we found out Martin Dixons super 
powers, the top one being: Plug him 
into an ethemet adapter and he be
comes Martin.Dixon@stud.org.
President (Kami White): A survey 
about transportation to Squirrel Hill 
will be distributed soon. We are working 
on ways to improve communication be
tween Student Senate and other organi
zations on campus.
Treasurer (Emma Gosden): Hockey 
and the Student Body President accounts 
remain frozen.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Brian Mueller): We 
talked to the Physics I for Engineering 
Students professor about the psychol
ogy experiment and a decision was made 
to make it voluntary.
Campus Affairs (Brenden Mielke): A 
resolution about graffiti on campus will 
come up this week. We will be having a 
meeting on Thursday with Chief 
LaPaglia in order to form a Security 
Committee. We are also looking into the 
Greek Housing situation. To get in touch 
with the committee with your 
suggestions, send mail to campusaffairs@andrew.cmu.edu.
Funding and Recognition (Merle 
Atkinson): We would like to bring the 
Scotchn Soda Special Allocation off the 
table tonight. Budgets were due on Feb
ruary 28; thanks to all organizations 
who turned them in on time. Budget 
hearings will begin after Spring Break.
Human Resources (Troy Benowitz): 
No report.
Public Relations (Eduardo Gonzalez): 
Meetings are held at 4:30 pm on Wednes
days in the Senate office. Elections will
be held on April 6,7, and 8. Petitions are 
due on March 23. Send comments/sug
gestions to eg2h.
Chair (Burt Holzman): Keycards will 
be available for new senators next week 
(really). Senators who filled vacancies 
this semester must submit another peti
tion for the elections. The next meeting 
will be on March 28 at 5 pm, place to be 
announced.
6, 7 and 8:
Passed by acclamation
Approval of Election Times and Place:
12  3 pm Thursday, April 6
1-5 pm Friday, April 7 and Saturday,
April 8
Held as close to the Carnival Midway as 
possible:
Passed by acclamation
New Business From Committee: Approval of the PSFB:
Graffiti Resolution:
Passed by acclamation;
Bylaws Amendment:
Strike Article IV, Paragraph III.F.l .c.(2) 
and renumber; Insert Appoint a Vice 
Chair of Student Senate, pending the 
approval of Student Senate. as Article
IV, Paragraph II.F.I.d.(2) between (2) 
and (3); and renumber accordingly.
New Business From the Floor:
Approval of Martin Dixon as AB Chair: 
Passed by acclamation
Approval of Harsha Hakkal as Chair of 
the Elections Board:
Passed by acclamation
Special Allocation: $1,993 for Scotch n 
Soda
Passed by acclamation
Approval of the Election Dates as April
Members of the committee; Anat Gal-or, 
Doug Hudson, Theresa Leonardo, An
drew Davenport, and Cameron Brown: 
Passed by acclamation.
Filling Vacant H&SS seat: Michael 
Hurwitz
Passed by acclamation.
Approval of Elections Board:
Passed by acclamation.
Announcements:
 Vacancies: 2 CFA, 1 Heinz, 1 MCS, 1 
GSIA, 1 SCS. Deadline for petitions is 
March 23.
 There will be a Rape Awareness candle
light vigil on March 12.
 The next meeting will be on March 28 
at 5 pm, place to be announced.
Submitted by 
BEN BOSTWICK 
Edited by 
MAX CHITTISTER
CMU AlmanacCarnegie Mellon in Brief
50 YEARS AGO (3/13/45), The 
Tartan reported Professor J.B. 
Ellis, head of the Sculpture De
partment at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, announced that 
the City of Pittsburgh Arts and 
Crafts Center will hold its formal 
opening Saturday, March 17, 
from 8 to 11 pm. Those attending 
the opening will see not only a 
preview of the combined exhibi
tion by five resident member or
ganizations of the center but also 
the entire center, which includes 
offices and meeting places for the 
ten resident organizations, stu
dios, lecture rooms, and exhibi
tion rooms.
25 YEARS AGO(3/13/70), Joe 
Duckworths year-long attempt 
to institute a new student-run 
judicial system at CMU met with 
unexpected defeat at last 
Tuesdays Senate meeting. The 
project had been given extremely 
careful consideration and had
 been discussed in great length 
until it appeared that all the bugs 
' had been eliminated. A brief
struggle, initiated by Tom Bur
gess, led to the defeat of the mo
tion, reported The Tartan.
10 YEARS AGO (3/12/85), The 
Tartan stated The CMU admin
istration has refused a CMU 
Peace-Alliance invitation to par
ticipate in a public forum on the 
Software Engineering Institute 
(SEI). Peace-Alliance members 
conceived of the idea for the fo
rum hoping to educate the cam
pus community on all issues re
lated to SEI. 
5 YEARS AGO (3/13/90), 
Michael Murphy was appointed 
Dean of Student Affairs Tues
day, The Tartan reported. 
Murphys appointment was to 
last for one year after Brad 
Walters, the previous Dean, re
signed to open a consulting firm. 
Acording to Vice-President for 
Enrollment William Elliot, his 
appointment was necessary to 
maintain stability so that the 
search did not become the focus 
of the fall semester.
Pitt releases Internet policy
The University of Pittsburgh 
has released its policy regarding 
computer access policy and treat
ment of obscene subject matter 
on the Internet.
As part of the policy, a standing 
committee of administration, fac
ulty, and students will be formed 
to monitor the newsgroups, ac
cording to a press release from 
the university.
The policy proposes that guide
lines be set down to segregate 
newsgroups into two categories: 
those with content which is likely 
to be obscene or sexually explicit 
and harmful to minors, as de
fined by Federal and State law, 
and ... those without. All users 
over the age of 18 would be able to 
access any newsgroup from ei
ther category, while users under 
18 would only be able to access 
the second group. The policy also 
recommends that a process be 
established through which mi
nors could access both categories 
under appropriate circum
stances.
H&SS awards scholarships
Ian Murphy, an H&SS sopho
more, and Kristin Nicodemus, a 
junior in applied history, are 
recipients of $2,000 Brona Stein
Buerger scholarships. A partial 
scholarship award of $500 was 
awarded to Margaret Puskar, a 
junior majoring in social history 
and creative writing.
The scholarship fund was es
tablished by Charles A. Buerger 
(Printing Management 1960), 
who made a $30,000 pledge to 
endow a fund in the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences 
in memory of Mrs. Buerger, who 
graduated from Margaret 
Morrison in 1962. Buerger is the 
publisher of the Jewish Times in 
Baltimore, Md.
The Brona Stein Buerger En
richment Fund is being used to 
support travel, research, and 
other activities of undergraduate 
students in the college.
College Bowl performs well
On February 24 and 25, the 
Carnegie Mellon College Bowl 
Team took part in the Regional 
College Bowl tournament. This 
was the first time that the Col
lege Bowl Team had participated 
in the tournament, which took 
place in Morgantown, West Vir
ginia.
The team, which wa3 coached 
by Benjamin Wang, consisted of 
team captain Jeremy Horwitz, 
David Taylor, Sravan Narayan, 
Adam Tableman, and Michael 
Wall.
The team finished the tourna
ment with a 4-4 record.
Correction...
In last weeks article Lacrosse club struggles against WVU, it was reported that Robert John Sechan scored a goal. The goal was 
actually scored by freshman Jay Miolla.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact If you know of an error, please contact Lauren Heinz at x8-2111, or write her in care of 
The Tartan.
Carnegie Mellon sheds some light on campus security
Theres no reason to be in the dark about campus security. A team of Carnegie Mellon police officers, security guards, and housing and student affairs staff members work to keep students, 
faculty, staff and visitors informed and safe on the campus and adjacent areas. These professionals are concerned with the safety and welfare of the campus community and are best able to 
answer questions about campus security.
Carnegie Mellon University Department of Security Crime Statistics Report
Categories of Crime
1992 
Statistics Rates
1993 
Statistics Rates
1994 
Statistics Rates
Murder & Nonnegligent Manslaughter000000
Manslaughter bv Nealiaence000000
Forcible Rape000000
Non-Forcible Rape000000
Robbery1.000092.000021.00009
Aggravated Assault2.00020000
Burqlary-Breakinq and Entering16.0018.000716.001
Larcenv-Theft (Except M.V. Theft)266.02243.02219.02
Motor Vehicle Theft5.00056.00067.0006
Other Assaults9.00081.000092.0001
Arson1.000090000
Foraerv & Counterfeitina1.00009. 0000
Fraud000000
Stolen Property: Rec.. Poss., Buying8.00070000
Vandalism93.00963.00621.002
Weapons, Carrying, Possession1.000091000
Liquor Laws35.00313.00149.005
Sex Offenses (Except Rape & Prostitution)3.0003001.00009
Druq Abuse Violations1.000092.00023.0003
Drunkenness3.00311.0013.0003
Disorderly Conduct104.0145.00444.004
Vagrancy000000
All Other Offenses (Except Traffic)157.01107.0165.006
I The Carnegie Mellon Community
(lor the 1994-95 Academic Year)
Full-Time Part-TimeTotal
Undergraduates4,340974,437
Graduate students1,9687362,704
Non-degree students141141
Employees (non-student)2,9825253,507
10,789
Arrest Statistics
Categories ol Crimes
1992
Statistics
1993
Statistics
1994
Statistics
Liquor Laws Violation
Drug Abuse Violations
Weapons Possessions Violations
This report is published in compliance with Pennsylvania Legislative 
Act 73, Section 3: Crime Statistics Reports and Security Policies and 
Procedures, and Federal Public Law 101-542, Title II, "Crime 
Awareness and Campus Security Act ot 1990.
For additional copies or more information, 
contact the Department of Security at 412-268-2323.
Published January 1995.
CariWieMellon
Crime rates are based on the numbers and categories ol crime, divided by the universitys total number of students and employees. 
Figures are per one thousand headcount.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University13 March 1995
Crime statistics ignore 
campus rape incidents
The crime statistics have been 
published again and for the fifth 
year in a row, the University 
reports that zero rapes have oc
curred on this campus. We be
lieve this statistic is untrue and 
damaging. Rape happens at 
Carnegie Mellon  just like at 
any other large college in the 
nation, and the crime statistics 
should reflect this. On the Cut 
last night, over 70 members from 
the campus community partici
pated in the rape vigil. Such a 
demonstration shows that many 
students consider rape to be a 
serious problem at this univer
sity.
The crime statistics are intrin
sically flawed. The report only 
includes crimes which are 
founded. In contrast, an un
founded crime report is one 
which is considered to have little 
or no credibility, or one which 
does not result in charges being 
brought. Further, the rapes re
ported are only those committed 
on campus. This means the male 
rape of two years ago that hap
pened on Frew street (a good 20 
feet off campus) was not included 
in the statistics.
The Administration has been 
purporting this lie for the last 
five years. The effects of this 
misrepresentation are far-reaching. First, it creates an inaccu
rate portrait of campus life here 
for students and the surround
ing community. Students who
are applying to CMU will have 
a flawed concept of safety on 
campus. Whatstudentwouldnt 
want to attend a college where 
no rapes have occurred? More
over, how does this false sense 
of security effect a students be
havior on campus?
The crime statistics may also 
discourage rape victims from 
coming forward  if they have 
been led to believe no rapes hap
pen here, they may not want to 
challenge the notion. We need 
to modify the way crime statis
tics are compiled and continue 
to bring about awareness of rape 
and provide support for its vic
tims.
The crime statistics present a 
fantastic state of campus life 
that many of us know to be 
untrue. It is unfair to Carnegie 
Mellon students, incoming stu
dents, victims of rape, and the 
wider community to continue 
this misrepresentation of cam
pus security. The statistics 
glamorize the truth about rape 
on our campus and the effect of 
this ideal can be harmful.
The women who organized 
last nights rape vigil have taken 
a necessary first step by saying 
clearly and yet eloquently that 
rape happens here. We hope 
this message is heard and that 
the crime statistics can be re
vised in such a way as to por
tray a more accurate picture of 
campus welfare.
False alarms endanger 
students, waste funds
Its a typical day in the Stu
dent Center; offices and class
rooms are buzzing with activity, 
and work is being done with 
enthusiasm and accord. Every
one is feeling somewhat good 
until... Bzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzz...! 
the Fire Alarm sounds. Every
one gets up and bolts for the 
door, only to return to their 
chairs when they realize where 
they are.
Why is there such a lack of 
responsiveness to this common 
drill exercise, a pattern that is 
embedded within a students 
mind from their nursery school 
years and drilled into them un
til they can form a single-file 
line on the side of a school in 75 
seconds? The answer is simple: 
Theres just no reason to believe 
that were going to be in the 
center of a blazing inferno within 
minutes, because the amount of 
false alarms that we have expe
rienced have turned the Stu
dent Center Fire Drill into a 
weekly activity, almost as grip
ping as anything else we could 
do at CMU. Its like the story 
about the boy who cried Wolf; 
weve just marched out to find 
that the Student Center has, 
alas, yet to burn down.
According to Physical Plant, 
these alarms can go off with the 
smoke detectors, which can be 
tripped by anything from a lit 
match to welding near a detec
tor. Were not just talking about 
an alarm clock alarm, either. 
We are talking about a siren so 
loud that it turns the Student 
Center into a rejected scene from
IT's WOfcTW A f^oT.
T : nujt.ginajricla @ house.g0\/ 
prow: j<^e.oe. @ cmedn
Dear Mr. G^riclv. 1 s"^dent in "^3^-
Ws intrigued t\j your ide4 o l<Ms
^2. OO -P-&T eac-K bok" they v/e re.c\d. In -four 
^arshere, )', rea qs bw)1s yOM ^ ^
Pq^O-OO. Jane Doe
Letters to the Editor
Political cartoon 
misled audience
=- I SB
Letter to 
the Editor
Das Boot. At this point, the au
thorities are notified, and trucks 
from the. neighboring fire sta
tions come screaming out to help 
with the emergency, only to find 
no smoke in sight. If the school 
doesnt have some sort of per
mit that explains the alarm, 
they are slapped with a $500 
fine for the interruption.
Theres a great deal of dis
turbing aspects to this; every 
time that alarm goes off and 
trucks respond, $500 goes down 
the drain, a high price to pay for 
smoking in the wrong part of 
the building. When it happens 
in residence halls, the inhabit
ants of that hall have to pay the 
damage themselves. And its not 
just the fact that it wastes 
money; it wastes our time, while 
the Carnegie Mellon police force 
looks at the indicator outside of 
their office that tells them where 
the disturbance is located, 
scratching their heads and try
ing to figure out why its acting 
up again.
In all seriousness, false alarms 
are dangerous, especially since 
the fire station closest to our 
campus holds a paltry two or 
three fire engines at any time.
The solutionis clear: the alarm 
systems need to be'examined, 
and, if need be, replaced. If the 
problem can be solved by shell
ing out for some new smoke 
detectors there is no reason (if 
CMU can afford the $500-peralarm fine) that they cant af
ford to stop the false alarms 
from happening. Maybe then 
we could get more work done.
Editor:
Jason Togyers 
political cartoon 
(2/27/95), which 
showed a suppos
edly anti-censorship group tiyingto 
stop an invited lecturer from speaking, 
was amusingandskillful. Unfortunately, 
as commentary on events on this cam
pus, it was highly misleading.
A group of female students, myself 
included, were concerned by the choice 
of Dr. Frederick Schauer as an educa
tional speaker on the issues facing the 
bboard committee. We knew that he was 
likely to suggest that CMU censor the 
bboards to create a safer environment 
for women.
We did not want our silent presence in 
the audience to lend mistaken support 
to his suggestion, so we chose to wear 
posters that would make our opinions on 
the issue clear.
To my knowledge, no one at any time 
advocated anattempt to stopDr. Schauer 
from speaking or to make it difficult for 
him to be heard.
Perhaps Mr. Togyer merely intended 
to make an abstract statement. This is 
not without value; however, he might 
consider in future the power of turning 
his talent toward actual incidents rather 
than fantasies.
Alma Whitten 
Ph.D. Student 
Computer Science
AIDS policy 
needs revision
Editor: & g ggg
Your article ExResearcher Sues 
University (2/27/
95) was off the 
mark. It is not news 
that an employee is
suing the University for HIV discrimi
nationthat was reported in both PittsLetter to 
the Editor
burgh newspapers when the lawsuit was 
filed over a year ago. The shocking 
aspect is that two state courts found 
that 10 years into the HIV pandemic, 
Carnegie Mellon was failing to protect 
its faculty, staff and students from infec
tion by not requiring universal protec
tions when dealing with blood and blood 
products.
According to Planet Queer, the referee 
for the PA Unemployment Compensa
tion Board of Review wrote, Evidence 
at the hearing did indicate that in 1992, 
almost 10 years after the AIDS on
slaught, there were no established poli
cies for the handling of blood or blood 
products at the lab.
This is unconscionable.
It has been known for many years that 
wearing rubber gloves and goggles when 
handling blood and blood products mini
mizes the chance of accidentally con
tracting hepatitis, HTV, and other blood 
pathogens. The Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration (OSHA) has is
sued regulations that mandate precau
tions at work sights that deal with hu
man blood products. We are told that 
Carnegie Mellon is now in compliance 
with these regulations. Any member of 
the campus community that has a con
cern about the way blood is handled in 
their laboratory should contact the 
universitys department of Environmen
tal Health and Safety.
Carnegie Mellons AIDS policy was 
adopted on February 7,1992. It is cur
rently being reviewed and revised by a 
committee of administration, faculty, 
staff and students. We serve on this 
committee, as does Anita Barkin, direc
tor of the Health Center, who is the 
committee chair, Barbara Smith from 
Human Resources, and professor Mark 
Wessel from the Heinz School. Any 
member of the Carnegie Mellon commu
nity that has a comment on the univer
sity AIDS policy should contact a mem
ber of the committee.
Scott Safier
Senior
Robotics
Pittsburgh, not 
paint, kills trees
iSE
Letter to 
the Editor
Donna Riley
Senior
EPP
Editor:
If my required 
statistics class has 
taught me one 
thing, apart from 
the fact that its 
really hard to get 
out of bed at 8:30 am on a Monday 
morning, it is that correlation does not 
imply causation. With this in mind, Id 
like to question the validity of certain 
signs, ironically made out of paper and 
wood, which have recently been erected 
for the supposed protection of trees. 
These signs claim that the paint on the 
bark of the trees adorning the Fence is 
killing the trees. I am proposing that 
what is in fact killing the trees, if any
thing, is Pittsburgh. And since there 
seems to be little alternative short of 
transporting them to the country, I think 
everyone can just relax.
Im not sure what type of tree these 
specimens are, but I have noticed'many 
of them around campus with one suspi
cious characteristic: they are all dying. 
That is, if the lack of bark above the 
main trunk means that they are in f 
dying at all, which it would seem that 
they are not, for the very simple reason 
that they are still alive.
We can always put it to the test, if you 
like. Im sure theres enough paint lying 
around that if we all joined together, we 
could paint the whole tree. Wed have to 
be sure to paint each individual leal 
however, because, though I am not a 
practicing botanist, I believe that it is 
the leaves through which plants actu
ally respire, and not the bark as is being 
alluded to. Then we could compare it to 
another tree without paint and see how 
they fare.
Until then, I encourage statistics i 
jors to rip down the blatant affront to 
their central tenet, or at least to paint 
their rebuttals over that annoying Goat' 
picture.
Greg Marcks 
Freshman 
Creative Writing
Affirmative action programs discriminate
Ronak Singhal
Throughout the last 30 years, 
America has addressed the 
wrongs that earlier generations 
made against women and mi
norities. In order to provide 
equal opportunity, the govern
ment enacted a series of minor
ity- based goals that attempted 
to correct the situation. Yet, it 
appears that these programs 
are not good for our country 
because they are not fair.
Why is affirmative action a 
bad idea? Simply, it denies 
qualified people the opportunity 
to seek advancement because of 
their ethnic background. Many
people will say thats why af
firmative action programs 
were instituted. Theyre right, 
but instead of discriminating 
against people because of who 
they are, it discriminates 
against people because of who 
they arent. Students are 
awarded scholarships based 
on not only their academic 
accomplishments, but also 
how well their group is rep
resented. What happens to the 
person who plays by all the 
rules and does well, but still 
cant advance because he hap
pens to have great-grandpar
ents that came from the wrong 
area of the world?
The correction of past injus
tices by creating a new unjust 
system achieves nothing. This 
is not to say that there 
shouldnt be programs to en
sure that all Americans have 
an equal opportunity at suc
cess. After all, America is 
where a lowly actor can be
come President and where the 
son of a black sharecropper 
can become a Supreme Court 
Justice. The point is that 
there should be no guarantee 
that all people will achieve 
the same status. Finally, poli
ticians are talking about this 
issue. Soon, California resi
dents will vote on a referen
dum that would effectively 
end public affirmative action 
programs. In the meantime, 
senators Lamar Alexander, 
Bob Dole, and Phil Gramm 
have said they will end the 
160 different affirmative ac
tion programs that the gov
ernment has in place.
Critics say that they are
typical Republicans who are 
only concerned with white 
America. They should look 
at Jack Kemp. Kemp has 
suggested plans to create 
equal opportunity based on 
economic needs, not race or 
gender. Businesses should 
be encouraged to invest in 
urban areas in order to bring 
in new sources of wealth to 
the residents. These ideas 
eliminate the current hap
hazard scheme and provide 
a sensible standard.
Instead of equal opportu
nity, affirmative action has 
created a system where who 
a person is has become more 
important than what that 
person has done.
Ronak Singhal is a sopho
more in ECE.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  13 March 19957
kflrmou
Jeffrey Siu
Ifyou just pulled an all-nighter 
ilease get some sleep before you 
ead this article,
I know what it is like when you 
in front of a computer screen 
an overcrowded cluster all 
light. At 3, 5 and 8 am, you look 
round and everyone is still there, 
lien you ask yourself, Should I 
lap classes and get some sleep? 
nd Was it worth it?
That was my situation fresh
en, sophomore, and junior 
ears. Because of my determina
te do my best, be smarter 
han you, be competitive, get a 
.0, and get my moneys worth!
I have pulled too many allighters to keep track of. Its not 
istthat I lost count of how many
All-nighters prove counterproductive
all-nighters, I also lost myself.
Although I am not a geek, I 
became sad, depressed, dishev
eled, and physically weak. My 
body started to wear out, my 
energy level plummeted.
I also developed food allergies 
and took many trips t o
the crowded CMU 
Health Service.
Then, in the 
end of my jun
ior year, I 
started to hate 
CMU  and 
for many rea
sons other 
than just poor 
housing and 
dining ser
vices. (Better 
known as low 
student satis
faction.)
This hate 
led to my nega
tive attitude:
Why do our
professors have no sympathy for an all-nighter.
us? Why does life suck? Why? 
Why? Why?
In my senior year, I reasoned to 
myself, Are all these all-nighters 
worth it? I answered, No Way! 
Why?
,  We pay tuition to learn not to 
overwork ourselves.
Lack of sleep for today will 
ruin my whole day for tomorrow.
An unrested body is very vul
nerable to diseases.
I was taught the law of di
minishing returns. (The 
more you overwork 
yourself, the less pro
ductive you will be.)
All-nighters do 
not guarantee bet
ter grades.
A true student 
a pursuer of 
knowl
edge. 
Someone 
is a stu
dent for a 
lifetime, not just for
Not pulling all-nighters does 
not imply you are lazy.
So the next question is: how 
can I get all these problem sets, 
programmings... (an infinite list) 
done without pulling allnighters? I realized that I needed 
to learn the concept of total qual
ity time management.
To do this, I set goals such as 
no all-nighters this week, this 
semester and this year.
I bought an organizer and di
vided bigger tasks into mutiple 
smaller tasks. I did homework 
everyday.
I minimized time-consuming 
activities like phone calls and 
emails. I wont let phone calls or 
emails be longer than a half hour 
and wont cruise the internet 
anymore; (not for me, but for 
some of you maybe no nettreking 
anymore).
Another piece of advice: when
ever there is a problem, bugyour 
teaching assistant or professor!
Start your assignment early 
so you will know what to ask the
teaching assistant or professor.
You can also ask for an exten
sion if you have a legitimate rea
son.
Based on my experience, I have 
sympathy for those who have or 
will be pulling all-nighters. If 
you find my advice helpful, make 
it a top priority to not pull any
more all-nighters and set the 
goals I mentioned above. Most of 
all, implement them!
Another solution is to ask your 
professors to assign less home
work. Am I silly? Of course not!
You can do a statistical study 
to prove to President Mehrabian 
that a decrease in workload will 
cause an increase in student sat
isfaction and student retention 
rate!
Think about it before you pull 
your next all-nighter!
Jeffrey Siu is a senior major
ing in IDS and minoringin math. 
He has spent many late nights 
studying and wants to give ad
vice to younger men and women.
Pro-life activists must adopt better strategies
Michelle Hall
A couple of weeks ago, I was making a 
ist of topics for my column, and I decided 
lat I wasnt going to do a piece this 
emester that had anything to do with 
bortion. Im pro-life and after being a 
ludent at CMU for three years, Ive come 
realize that my stance is not a popular 
le..
I tend to stay away from debate about 
bortion for various reasons, mostly beause I am squeamish about pushing my 
pinions on other people. Still, occasionlly a situation presents itself that makes 
impossible for me to keep silent.
Before I say anything else, I should set 
ae record straight. I think abortion should 
eillegal, but until it is, youre not going 
find me picketing outside of any aborion clinic.
When I tell people how I feel, they often 
lention circumstances of rape and incest 
nd what should be done in those cases. I 
lave no answers to these questions, and I 
rould not belittle the pain and shame 
lvolved by condemning any woman who 
as an abortion under such conditions. 
The same goes for women whose lives 
re endangered by pregnancy and giving 
irth. However, in all other instances, I 
elieve people should take responsibility 
)r their actions, however dire the conseuences may be.
Women have always had control over 
leir reproductive rights, but I dont think 
nyone should get the easy way out after 
lefact. Also, I am adopted, and although 
ome people might think this is an irratioal reason for opposing abortion, Im a big 
dvocate of adoption.
But this column is not about whether 
mot abortion is right, and I am not here 
offend anyones beliefs and convictions. 
5 a writer, though, I think it is important 
establish a perspective, and my peropinions shape that perspective.
Last week I was reading an article in In 
Pittsburgh about the Franciscan Univer
sity of Steubenville, in Ohio. The piece 
caught my attention because Steubenville 
is my hometown, and my parents gradu
ated from the university while it was still 
the College of Steubenville.
The university is an extremely conser
vative Catholic institution, and it has a 
reputation for supporting Operation Res
cue, the pro-life movements most mili
tant form of protest. Students at the 
university are notorious for taking part in 
rescues all over the country and, in some 
cases, instigating violence.
It seems the universi ty ____________
has implemented a pilot 
class for freshmen, simi
lar to seminars at other 
universities, introducing 
the students to the school 
and college life. Every
thing was just peachy to 
me until I found that in 
the class, one of the ac
tivities that will fulfill the ______
public service project re
quirement is praying outside of abortion 
clinics.
Now, I may be pro-life, but the idea of 
abortion protest for course credit rubs me 
the wrong way.
I dont know why the article surprised 
me, given the universitys reputation and 
my first-hand experience with it, but the 
idea of bringing pro-life activism into the 
classroom in such a way is something I 
never thought would happen.
The university is a private one, and 
most of the students who enroll know 
exactly what kind of moral and political 
stance the university takes on abortion, 
so Im not out to badmouth their policies. 
However, the class is just one more thing 
to reinforce my disapproval of pro-life 
activism.
Dont get me wrong, Im not against 
protest in general. I think that, often, 
protest can be a very effective means of 
bringing about changenon-violent pro
test. Last year I read an article about a 
middle-school age girl showing pictures of 
aborted fetuses to her schoolmates.
There are always bombings, arsons, 
beatings, and harassment by pro-life ac
tivists. In some instances, like the recent 
rush of violence toward abortion clinic 
workers and doctors, there is killing. Cor
rect me if Im wrong, but I always thought 
that pro-life meant believing in the sanc
tity of all human life, regardless. > 
Some pro-lifers may argue that the kill
ing, the violence, is justified because of the 
violence these people commit against mil
lions of unborn children every year. I dont 
think it is. Life is life, and I dont think 
anyone who advocates the killing or maim
ing of doctors who perform abortions or
" ... One of the activities that will fulfill the 
public service project requirement is pray
ing outside of abortion clinics ... the idea 
of abortion protest for course credit rubs 
me the wrong way. 
support capital punishment should call 
themselves pro-life.
The pro-life movement itself needs to 
rethink its tactics when it has people who 
advocate violence doing so under the ban
ner of pro-life.
It seems I am not the only one who feels 
this way. A1990 Gallup poll showed that 
the percentage of Americans who feel abor
tion should be illegal under any circum
stances dropped from 17 percent in 1988 
to 12 percent in April 1990, an all-time 
low. Furthermore, the percentage of people 
who think abortion should be legal under 
any circumstances rose from 24 percent in 
1988 to 31 percent.
Of Americans who have an opinion on 
abortion, though, the majority find them
selves somewhere in the middle on the 
issue. In 1990, 53 percent of Americans 
believed abortion should be legal under 
certain circumstances.
The polls alone attest to the decline in 
support of the pro-life stance and pro-life 
activism, losing people to the other con
stituencies. I would not be at all surprised
if many defect because they disapprove 
of the methods of activism.
My question to the pro-life movement 
is: what exactly are these militant acts 
accomplishing?
I would be naive to assume that all 
pro-life activists support violence in pro
test, but unfortunately, because the vio
lence is what captures attention, all pro
lifers are being lumped together and 
termed terrorists.
Are they terrorists? In instances of 
bombings and killing, or even severe 
assault, I would say yes. The violence 
and militancy of some members of the
_______________ movement is giving
the whole movement 
and the stance a bad 
name.
The methods of 
protest are alienat
ing people from the 
movement, not at
tracting them. The 
tactics are also getting the movement 
nowhere in their ef
forts to make abortion illegal. Finally, 
these members seem to be forgetting 
the old adage that actions speak louder 
than words. The actions of these violent 
camps are so loud that no one can hear 
what they are saying anymore.
Have you ever seen those commercials 
advocating adoption? Thats my kind of 
pro-life activism.
I do not believe that the easiest way to 
secure agreement in this controversy is 
striking fear into the hearts of ones 
enemies. I think both sides of the issue 
are riddled with hypocrisy and contra
diction. But even so, you dont see prochoice activists killing pro-life leaders, 
or setting fire to their homes and places 
of business.
The pro-life movement, because of its 
violence in the face of perceived vio
lence, is losing credibility and credence.  
And as long as this is so, they will be 
doing it without me.
Michelle Hall is a junior majoring in 
English.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
A crime that affects all 
CQfnpuses and is a fear for 
Many women is rape. On 
March 12, a candlelight vigil 
was held on the Cut to supPrt the silencedDo you 
feel that sexual assault is 
an issue to be concerned 
about at CMU?
Shannon Lemrow
Junior
Chemistry
I think its something to be 
made aware of. If you educate 
people about it, it will help to 
reduce the problem.
Austin Shifrin
Sophomore
Psychology
Yeah, I think its a really im
portant issue because its not 
very public. Its something that 
neeeds to be talked about.
Aruitra Hart 
Freshman 
Biology
I think its an issue every
where. Its something you cant 
avoid. CMUs a really open com
munity, but I still think it could 
happen here. If it didnt, why 
would they have the vigil?
Dane Lovejoy
Junior
Undecided
No. Theres nobody here to 
have sex with.
THE TARTAN
Camegle Mellons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager........Amlt Kar
News Ed...............Edward Hayes
Forum Editor....Kristine Hinrichs
Sports Editor .... Matthew Soiitro 
Features Co-Eds. Shannon Gibney 
Jonmichaei L.T. Moy
Div. Editor.......Paul Tabachneck
Calendar Ed.....Roula Abdel-Baki
Dossier Dsgn. Ed.Brockett Home 
Dossier Lit. Ed... Adriane Seibert
Art Co-Eds.........Gabrlen Symons
Francine Gemperle
Photo Editor..................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr..........Derek Wahila
Personnel Mgr.........Angela Molloy
Copy Mgr.....................Eric Strauss
Systems Mgr.........Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Ed........Max Chittister
Asst. Forum Ed. ... Lee Abernathy 
Asst. Sports Editor.. Paul Boothe
Asst. Div. Ed.....Natalie Wochele
Asst. Prod. Mgr.............Kathy Liu
Photo Staff Mgr..........David Perry
Contributing Editors 
Samuel Greenfield, Abby Schiff, 
Andrew Sproule, Jason Togyer
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, John Biggs, Andrew 
McDermott
Staffwriters 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, Eric 
Applewhite, Steven Burns, Darren 
Chiapetta, Carey Clevenger, Tricia 
Davis, Mahua Dutta, Gretel Gaal, 
Dan Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, 
Michelle Hall, Tom Harper, Jason 
Heinlein, Wladimir Labeikovsky, 
Laura McClure, April C. Moate, 
David Osorio, Suzanne Paddock, 
Sudhir Reddy, EricSalzman, Leigh 
Silverman, Ronak Singhal, Jon 
Slenk, James Stepanek, Lance 
Thomas, Danielle J. Topol, Bill 
Vandermark, Sharmila Venkatasubban, Dawn Wallhausen, Su
san Watson, John Weber, Heather 
Zindle, Corey Zinn
Art
Justin Carroll, Mark Eggert, Amy 
Haupl, Jen Zieserl
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Robert Brunskill, Nick 
Casciato Jr., Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowitz, Christopher Nelson, 
Jackson Tam, David White
Photo
VineetAgarwai.TusharDubey, Rob 
Earhart, Bassem El-Dasher, Kerry 
Hagan, Janet Lee, Pat Prasangsit, 
Jason Siegendorf, Jackson Tam, 
Maria Valenti, Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Rachel Noack, Margaret Stallings, 
Jen Urso
Production 
Christine Brill, Vernon Harmon, 
Esther Jimnez, Lester Manzano, 
Carrie McDonough, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Victor Ortega, Katie 
Swango
Copy
Lori Bowes, Madhav Ghanta, D. 
Renee Hairston, Winter Mason, 
Diane Ohm, EdSlavishak, Richard 
Smoien, Roger Wang, M. J. Wilson
Business 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chintan
Shah
Junior Staff 
Ido Ben-Shachar, Christy L. 
Callahan, Shira Feldman, Beth 
Gariano, Michael Gartiand, Conal 
Ho, Patrick Hunt, Sameer Kareem, 
Adam Klivans, Tim Kniveton, David 
Koran, Richard S. Lubell, Nicole 
Poisson, Emily Rosenthal, Jeffrey 
Siu, Aaron Weisberg
Tho Tartan  the student newspaper ot Cameglo Meilen University. it ha wceMy newspaper wbfiihcd by students during the fa and spring semes
ters. at no cost to merrfcer s of tho University community. It is printed by 
Western Pemsyfranla Printing, trc. Subscriptions me rraJatte lor the semester cr aadcmfc >ear. Tho editorials appearing at the beginning ol the 
opmtan section arc the ollfclal opinion ol Tho Tartan editorial board. 
Columns end political cartoons ere tho opinions ol IndMdual creators. The 
Tartan resees the riffil to reject a condenso an/ column cr poltical cortocn. Utters to Uio Editor are opinions d author who aro usualtj. but 
not necessarily, members ol tho University community. A letter Intended lot 
publfcalkn must be signed and IncJudo tho Miter's oddross and phono 
number for verlf ieatton. Homos mo/ bo withhold upcn request. Tho Tartan 
requests that loiters bo no longer than 500 words. The Tartan rtenes the rlfjit to condenso or reject cny letter. Copyright 0 1993 by The Tartan. Tho 
Tartan cdtalal board resees Uio light to withhold Irom publication aiy copy It deems unfit for pubOeatlcn.
OKIco: Student Center Hoom 104 
Phon (4121268-2111
Mailing address: Tho Tartan/Bo 17/Comcgio Mellon Unhersity/PMs-tjrjh. PA 15213-3690
funded in pot by ycur ActMttes fee.AJI rights reserved.
Library of toiffess ISSII : C8S&3107.

---------------------------------------------------

The Best Way To Save Money 
On Stuff (Oth er Than Borrowing
Your Roommates.) Roommates tend to get a little
MasterCardI.
weird when you borrow their stuff. (Theyre funny like that.) Better to get
yourself a MasterCard card. Then you could use it to 
buy the things you really want. And with these
SHIS 3H5b ISSO
0000 rmS 2/96 SAND 1 GLASER
College MasterValues coupons, youll save up to 40%. And until you get your 
own place, its the smartest thing you can do. Roommates are weird enough
as it is. MasterCard. Its more than a credit card. Its smart money"
L.
RUNNER SPORTS.
FREE Pair of Shorts (A $23 Value)
Run away with savings and our shorts, too. Receive 
a FREE pair of shorts (a *23 value), when you pur
chase *65 or more on your next catalog order and 
use your MasterCard* card. Call 1-800-551-5558 
for a free catalog or to place an order. Mention offer 
#RRP-0720.
Offer valid 2/1 /95 to 5/31 /95. Offer valid only ^.C0LLG^
on purchases using a MasterCard* card. Coupon 
cannot be combined with any oilier discounts, 
points or offers. One free pair of shorts 
per customer.'^astetValuei'
SAVE 25% ON THE BEATLES 
GREATEST HITS ON CD
Choose either the Red album, with hits from 1962 to 1966 
(26 hits including: A Hard Days Night, Ticket To Ride 
and Help) or the Blue album, 1967 to 1970 (28 hits including: 
Sgt. Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band, All You Need Is 
Love, and Revolution). Buy one 2-CD set for S25.98 (a *31.98 
value) or get the pair of CD sets for *47.98. To order call 
1-800-313-3323.
Offer valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases 
using a MasterCard1 card. Offer may not be combined with 
any other offer or discount. Shipping and handling additional. 
($3.50 per address in the U.S.A.) Please add applicable sales 
tax. Offer void where prohibited.
.COLLEGE.
'AfesfeiValue?
RT1RVED
College Jewelry
SAVE UP TO $120
Your college ring, from ArtCarved, is a keepsake 
youll always treasure. Save S30 on 10K gold, S60 
on 14K gold or SI20 on 18K gold. Call 1-800- 
952-7002 for more details.
COLLEGE
Offer valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases using 
a MasterCard* card. Coupon may not be 
combined with any other coupon or discount.
Offer docs not apply to shipping and handling.
Limit one order per person. Some limitations
"''fetevaiu-'
LCW3
Save 40%
Join the club...and save 40% off the *25, three-year mem
bership fee when you use your MasterCard card. Enjoy 
discounts of up to 50% on contact lenses, glasses, designer 
sunglasses and much more at Americas #1 Vision Care 
Service. For more details, call 1-800-USA-LENS and 
mention offer #101.
Offer and coupon valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. 
Offer valid only on purchases using a 
MasterCard* card. Offer void where 
prohibited by law.
COLLEGE
^IfeterValuei'
for a change
Save 15% On Your Next Purchase
Your dorm or apartment could use a few changes. You could 
use a good deal. Pier 1 can supply both. Well take 15% off your total purchase of all regular price items, from colorful 
pillows to fun framed art. All the supplies school calls for, plus 
15% off when you use your MasterCard card at Pier 1.
Offer and coupon valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases using a 
MasterCard* card. Offer valid on regular priced merchandise only, excludes clearance and 
sale items, delivery and other service charges. Coupon must be redeemed at the time of 
purchase. Offer does not apply to prior purchases and cannot be used to purchase Gift 
Certificates. Coupon is not valid in combination with 
any other coupon or discount. Coupon is valid at all 
Pier 1 company stores and participating franchise stores.
Coupon #446.
Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon. ''y^sT^VaK^"
TIME WARNER
GET ONE VIDEO FREE 
WHEN YOU BUY THREE
Video values just for you! Enjoy a full selection of top-quality 
videos at discount prices. All videos are priced at S9.95 or less 
and are 100% satisfaction guaranteed. Act now and get one 
video FREE when you buy three and use your MasterCard 
card. Call 1-800-862-7100 for your FFJEE catalog and ask for 
the COLLEGE MasterValues offer.
J
Offer valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases 
using a MasterCard card. Offer may not be combined with any 
other offer or discount. Offer valid for U.S. residents only.
Void where prohibited.
COLLEGI
'IfesteiValue'
cmmm,
Save $2 Off A CD Or Cassette
Heres music to your ears...save *2 on one CD or cassette 
priced *8.99 or more when you use your MasterCard card. 
One *2 discount per coupon.
COUPON #493
Offer and coupon valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases using a 
MasterCard* card. Cash redemption value 1/20. Offer void where prohibited, taxed 
or restricted. Coupon may not be combined with 
any other discount. Limit one CD or cassette per 
order. Excludes sale merchandise.
1-OOTHE ROSE"jr WoriOwfdt notiti
COLLEGE
Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon:
I--
^festerValueS'
SAVE UP TO 25%
Show the special people in your life how much you care! 
Save 20% on all floral arrangements and gift baskets of *28.45 
or more, and get 25% off a dozen roses when you use your 
MasterCard card. Call I-8OO-THE-ROSE before 1pm and 
have your special gift delivered the same day!
Offer valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard 
card. Offer valid on products priced $28.45 onnore.
Applicable sales tax and service charges are additional. COLLEGE
Coupon is not valid with any other special offer or  _
discount. Offer valid only on deliveries within the
Continental United States. Sunday delivery ^ ^
not guaranteed. ^&SteA/alue
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.
49% Off A Special 
12-Week Subscription
Invest in your future and stay on top of current devel
opments with The Wall Street Journal. For a limited 
time only, pay just *23 for a 12-week subscription 
to the nations leading business publication. To take 
advantage of this special offer, call 1-800-348-3555 
and please refer to source key 75NE.
COLLEGEOffer valid 2/1/95 to-5/31/95. Offer valid  - - 
only on purchases using a MasterCard card.
Efesie rValu#'
THE SHARPER IMAGE
SAVE 15% ON YOUR NEXT PURCHASE OF $75 OR MORE
Shopping is easy at Americas premier specialty retailer of gift, fit
ness, recreational, travel, apparel and more. Use your MasterCard* 
card and save 15% on a purchase of *75 or more when you shop 
at any one of our 70 store locations or by mail order. Call 1-800- 
344-4444, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to find the store nearest 
you or for a FREE catalog.
Offer valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCard 
card. Offer not valid on certain purchases. May not be combined with Frequent 
Buyere' Program. Price Matching Policy, auction purchases, 
promotions. Not valid on purchase of gift certificates or on 
previous purchases. The discount is applicable to, and the 
minimum purchase based on merchandise prices only, and 
excludes tax, shipping and tax 011 shipping.
Coupon Rcquiicd. POS CODE: H
ir other discounts
COLLEGI
ONE HOURMOTOPHOTO
50% Off Film Developing
Hold on to the good times and your money, too. 
MotoPhoto...the best place for better pictures guaranteed!
Take 50% off the regular price of processing and printing when 
you use your MasterCard card. Call 1-800-733-6686 for the 
location nearest you. Limit 1.
Offer and coupon valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. Cash redemption value 1/20. Offer valid 
only on purchases using a MasterCard card. Limit one coupon per customer.
Cannot be combined with any other offers. Offer valid 
on C-41 process, 35 mm film, and standard size prints COLLEGER
only. Offer valid at participating stores only.
Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon.
HCamivaL
HIE MOST POPULAR CRUISE UNE IN THE WORLD!.
CRUISE AND SAVE, PLUS RECEIVE A 
FREE FANNY PACK*
Cruise the Fun Shipsand save up to $400 per cabin on 
3- or 4-day cruises when you use your MasterCard card. 
Cruise for as little as $299 per person. 3rd and 4th passengers 
cruise FREE! Call 1-800-352-3454 for information and 
bookings. West Coast callers dial: 1-800-633-0220.
Ask for COLLEGE MasterValues* Savings! Offer valid on selected sailings through 1995, 
holiday blackouts apply. Must book by 5/31/95. Offer valid only on purchases using a 
MasterCard* card. Rates are per person, double occupancy, cruise-only with air add-ons 
available. Port charges/fees and taxes are additional.
Offer subject to availability and not combinable widi 
any odier discount. Ships Registry: Liberia, Bahamas.
Double-zipper nylon "parachute" pack widi black 
adjustable waia snap.
COLLEGE
O 1995 MaitnCatd Inletjialhnal Interpolated

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 89, Issue 19SPORTS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania13 March 1995
Individual performances highlight track championships
By STEVEN BURNS
fartan Staffwriter
The mens and womens indoor track teams re
cently traveled to Brandis University to particii in the University Athletic Association Indoor 
Track and Field Championships. The mens team 
placed fifth while the womens team placed eighth. 
They were able to be competitive even though they 
jack an indoor track and they only had four meets 
(o prepare.
Junior Zack Conly said, I think we did fairly 
jpdl, especially considering that we dont have an 
indoor practice facility really close by.
The meet featured strong individual perfor
mances, with the womens team sending one stu
dent on to nationals and the mens team also 
winning an event. Several other Tartans earned 
All-UAA honors at the meet.
Junior Missy Baustert was one of the highlights 
of the meet for Carnegie Mellon. She successfully
defended her title in the 800-meter competition 
with a time of 2:17.08. Her time qualified her for 
the NCAA Division III Championships held this 
past weekend at Ohio Northern University, where 
she made All-American.
Sophomore Vonquitra Bebee was another 
standout for the womens team as she earned AllUAA honors by placing second in the 200-meters. 
She also placed fourth in the 55-meter dash and 
teamed up with Baustert, sophomore Audry 
McAfee, and freshman Melissa Murello to place 
third in the 1600-meter relay.
Another woman earning All-UAA honors was 
freshman Jessica Connolly. She placed third in the 
triple jump with a distance of 9.87 meters. She also 
placed seventh in the long jump competition with 
a distance of 4.47 meters.
Other standouts included sophomore Becky 
Buchheit who placed sixth in the 3000-meter with 
a time of 10:47.12 and in the 5000-meter with a 
time of 18:54.20. In the womens shot put, fresh
man Vicki White and sophomore Leslie Brown 
placed sixth and seventh, respectively, with throws 
of 9.62 and 9.07 meters.
Womens team coach Dario Donatelli said, It 
was difficult, but it was a big step forward to get 
ready for the outdoor season.
The mens team celebrated a victory in the shot 
put. Senior Jason Grusky defended his title with a 
throw of 14.51 meters, which set a new school 
record. Grusky also placed fourth in the weight 
throw with a throw of 13.18 meters. I did much 
better than I expected, said Grusky. That was 
one of my best throwing performances of the year. 
Junior Demi Carrothers andjunior E. J. Tsangaris 
joined up with Grusky to dominate the shot put 
competition. Carrothers earned All-UAA honors, 
placing third with a throw of 13.61 meters, and 
Tsangaris placed sixth with a throw of 12.42 meters.
Conly and freshman Jeff Jones placed in the 55- 
meter hurdles. Conly finished second with a time of 
8.24 seconds which earned him All-UAA honors.
Jones placed fourth with a time of 8.31 seconds. 
Jones also placed fourth in the 400-meters with a 
time of 52.26 seconds.
Jones and Conly teamed up with sophomore 
Jordan Hopkins and sophomore John Krugh in the 
1600-meter relay. The team took fifth place with a 
time of 3:35.66.
Freshman Peter Hunt also took All-UAA honors 
by placing third in the high jump. He jumped a 
height of 1.98 meters.
Other Carnegie Mellon standouts were sopho
more Doug Harrell and senior Phil Beck. Harrell 
placed sixth in the long jump and fourth in the 
triple jump. He recorded distances of 6.26 meters 
and 12.81 meters respectively. Beck took fourth in 
the pole vault by vaulting a height of 3.99 meters.
The outdoor season begins soon. The Tartans 
will participate in the Bethany College Relays on 
April 1. They will also host the Carnegie Mellon 
Invitational and the Tartan Invitational on April 9 
and April 12 respectively.
Four basketball finals featured during IM Night
By LANCE THOMAS &
DARREN CHIAPPETTA
fartan Staffwriters
On Thursday night, varsity sports took a break 
as the Intramural Department hosted its annual 
M Night. The evening featured the finals for the 
[our divisions of intramural basketball.
MINORS
Junior Fred Sabb scored the first eight points 
for Phi Kappa Theta and had 11 in the first half 
including three 3-pointers, but senior Kent 
Broadwater for Barbaras Men was just as effec
tive, scoringl 0 first-half points as Barbaras Men 
I 21-13 at the half. In the second half, the 
taller, more physical Barbaras Men took a com
manding 30-20 lead late in the game but Sabb 
ade it close connecting on three more 3-points, earning him game MVP. Bill Mathey sealed 
the victory for Barbaras Men by hitting five 
second-half free throws for a 35-29 win. Barbaras 
Mens Broadwater was named Minors MVP for 
the season. Barbaras Men completed the season 
with a perfect 80 record.
WOMEN
KAPPA/DG won the womens division with a 
17-13 decision over Bullet Proof Soul. Sopho
more Anne Donovan paved the way for Kappa/DG 
with seven points and earned MVP in the lowscoring affair. Sophomore Michelle Cook had six for 
Kappa/DG while masters student Barbara Brewton 
and Sheree While chipped in four apiece for Bullet 
Proof Soul.
INTERMEDIATE
In the Intermediate final ECE Lightening won 
big over the Renegades, 46-36. Fifth-year senior 
Brad Lawrence hit two threes and scored 18 points, 
but that could not overcome the ECE Lightening 
balanced attack. Seven of eight players tallied 
points for the Lightning, with John Muza leading 
with 14 points including five second-half freethrows. These statistics earned him MVP honors.
MAJORS
Majors featured a duel between GSIA-1 and Navy. 
GSLA-1 prevailed 43-37 in a game that was much 
closer than the score indicated. GSIA-1 led through
out the game, but usually by no more than a couple 
of baskets. Masters student Eric Powers won game 
MVP with 14 points and two 3-pointers. Masters 
student Marc Bergren added 13 and the big man, 
masters student Kent Weaver, scored 11 in addi
tion to being a force in the paint. Navy could not 
contend his size. Senior Brock Hamlin had 10 for 
Navy before fouling out late in the game. Senior Joe
OHara played a great game for Navy scoring 15 
points with two 3-pointers.
James Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor 
Team members of GSIA-1 and Navy battle for 
position under the hoop In the Major division final.
American national pastime needs home on campus
Suicide Sqeeze
by Anuj Gupta
The birds are singing, the sun is 
shining (every once in a while), and 
a Florida men with the names of 
Bo Rodriguez and Troy Evers are 
trying to make a name for them
es. There is no denying that 
despite all the chaos in the sur
rounding environment, spring has 
arrived and so has baseball (in one 
form or another).
Of course, another year goes by, and 
campus again refrains from partici
pating in these annual rites. While 
the rest of the nation, from 
Pendelton, Oregon to 
Hoboken, New Jersey, 
celebrates the arrival 
of spring by bringing 
out the lumber and 
leather, this campus 
remains dormant, 
sleepwalking its 
way through an
other computer 
cluster morning.
Carnegie
Mellon remains the lone university in 
the UAA, and in the elite group of 
schools with which it competes in all 
other categories, without a baseball 
field.
CMU administration has always 
made an effort at distancing itself 
from the norm 
(for better and 
worse), but to 
not have a repre
sentation of the 
national pastime 
is almost as ludi
crous as not hav
ing an American 
flag on campus (I 
wouldnt be surMark Eggert/Tartan Art Staff prised if CMU de
cided to do without one).
Usually at this time of year the 
script in this column would have been 
spent on predictions, statistics, the 
new phenoms, the old veterans, pitch
ing staffs, defense, offense, and ev
erything else that comes with the 
start of baseball. But due to a lack of 
information this year, and partly a 
lack of interest in names such as Pfaff 
and Riley, I have chosen to finally put 
some light on an issue that is long 
overdue.
Imagine a typical April afternoon 
as you drive by Forbes avenue or 
walk toward the Resnik complex, and 
see 24 uniformed baseball players 
doing what is done on all the other 
Please see BASEBALL page 10
Fencing Club 
hosts Holy Grail 
Tournament
By STEVEN BURNS
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon University Fencing Club 
unsuccessfully tried to defend its title while 
hosting its annual Holy Grail Fencing Tourna
ment on Saturday, February 25.
Attending were a total of 39 teams from local 
fencing clubs, high schools, and various univer
sities such as Lehigh, Penn State, and SUNY 
Buffalo.
The tournament featured four competitions: 
sabre, epee, and mens and womens foil. Sabre 
features a cutting attack above the waist. The 
main action of foil is a point attack at the torso, 
while epee involves a point attack over the whole 
body.
Clubs were allowed to enter as many teams as 
they wished. Placing teams in the top spots of 
each category earned the club points, and the 
club with the most points was declared cham
pion.
Carnegie Mellon had a very good showing at 
the tournament by finishing tied for second with 
the Hershey Fencing Club. Kent State came 
away with the overall championship. Carnegie 
Mellon fencer Randy Bruno, a senior in psychol
ogy, said, Kent State really fenced well and 
deserved to win.
Bruno also pointed out the superb performances 
by the Carnegie Mellon fencers, especially the 
younger ones.
The beginners fenced their very best and even 
beyond. He made a special note of the good 
performances of Cameron Harvey.
There were nearly 130 fencers at the tourna
ment, one of which is nationally ranked. It gave 
many fencers a chance to fence against better 
competition and to gain experience. The tourna
ment was a great success, he said.
The Fencing Club will see action at the Indi
vidual National Qualifiers at the end of March. 
The Fencing Club will also be participating in 
upcomingtoumaments at SUNYBuffalo and the 
University of Rochester.
Seniors led hockey team to great heights
Now HonestLy!
by Eric Applewhite & Corey Zinn
This week, we are taking a break from 
normal column, Now HonestLy, to 
folk about the seniors on the CMU Hockey 
feam.
We have both followed the team for 
Ihnost four years, and have gotten to 
Mow most of the seniors well. They have 
contributed to the excitement of TarIce Hockey, helping the team make it0 the finals three y ears in a row and going 
the semi-finals this year. In the past 
Ur years, they have won a champion]hip, and claimed two division titles. Well 
'tart off by talking about the forwards, 
lnd who better to begin with than the 
aPtain this past year, John Cardillo.
all
John Cardillo joined the Tartans late 
D his sophomore year, and quickly bean integral part of the team. He 
lrught excellent hockey skills and lead
ership to the team. He also possesses a 
never-say-die work ethic that helped 
inspire his teammates. Johns gritty play 
was best exhibited in how he chased after 
every puck and sacrificed his body to help 
the team. He acquired his nickname, 
Snauser, after taking a check that 
crumpled his facemask and gave him a 
bruise on his nose. John gave 100 percent 
every shift of every game, and was the 
second-leading scorer for the Tartans this 
year with 27 points, while leading the 
team in the plus/minus category with a 
whopping +22.
Dan Kodesh has been with the team 
since freshman year, and each year has 
consistently improved his play, moving 
from fourth line freshman year to second 
line this year. Dan always possessed the 
skill to pass the puck, and worked hard 
each year to improve his skating and play 
in front of the net. And improve he did, 
more than quadrupling his points per 
season in two years (four points sopho
more year, 17 points this season).
Phil Beck consistently contributed to 
the team with occasional offense and 
strong skating. He quietly built up the 
points, and was one of CMUs best defen
sive forwards. Although plagued by ill
ness and injury, he continued to work 
hard and earned his second-line center 
position.
Dave Irvin has only been with the
team two years, but has improved his 
play each semester. Although always a 
physical, checking type of player, he 
displayed improved skating and offen
sive skills this season. Exactly the physi
cal forward needed by the third line, he 
scored a clutch goal to breathe new life 
into the Tartans rally during their 87 
loss to IUP in the semi-finals.
Dave Weber anchored the fourth line 
as the center, and displayed his strong 
skating abilities. Although not a highscorer, he worked hard to set up the 
wingers on his line.
John Bob Cosnek joined the team 
just this season, having never before 
played ice hockey. While not possessing 
the skills that some of the other players 
have, he set out to learn how to play 
hockey and he achieved his goal. What 
else can we say? More power to him!
Now, well move on to the defensemen, 
starting with standout P. J. Mann.
P.J. Mann is the epitome of a star 
defenseman  no one on the team was 
better at blocking shots or keeping the 
puck in the zone. Although not a huge 
defenseman, when the moment called 
for it, he dished out his share of pain and 
suffering to the opponent. He also con
sistently contributed to the offense, tal
lying around 10 points every season. He 
has anchored the defensive corps since 
Please see HOCKEY, page 11
Number one teams face 
difficulties in tournament
Below the Rim
by Darren Chiappetta
Unless you live in a cave, you know 
by now that last night marked the 
official commencement of March 
Madness, better known as the Na
tional Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA) tournament. The announce
ment of the 64-team field starts a 
three-week journey to the national 
championship game, to be played on 
April 3 in Seattle. During that time, 
there will be plenty of high-flying, 
buzzer-beating, rim-rocking action. 
The single-elimination format en
sures that there will be plenty of 
upsets, which makes the tournament 
more fun to watch. It also increases 
the amount of pressure on the highlyrated teams, because one loss can 
wipe out the success of an entire 
season.
For those of you who read the column 
regularly, youll remember that last 
time I said that a regular-season num
ber one ranking doesnt matter. I did 
some research this week, and found out
I was right. During the last five years, 
the number one team in the final Asso
ciated Press Top 25 has won the na
tional championship only once (Duke, 
1992), and theres been but one seasonending top dog that even advanced as 
far as the Final Four (Nevada-Las Ve
gas, 1991). Oklahoma lost in the second 
round in 1990, as did North Carolina 
last year, and Indiana fell in the re
gional final two years ago.
I think the trend will continue this 
year. The UCLA Bruins were named 
the APs final number one earlier to
day. Theyre a tremendous team, but I 
just dont see them taking it all. Why? 
Because Ive got a 63 in 64 chance of 
being right, thats why. Im not going to 
sit here and analyze why theyre not 
going to win, Im just going to say it and 
give you my other predictions.
UCLA will make it out of the West 
while UMass will survive the East. 
Arizona will win the Midwest and prob
ably face North Carolina who will make 
it through the Southeast. UMass will 
Please see BASKETBALL, page 11

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  13 March 1995
Kelly Galtens, a sophomore guard 
on the Carnegie Mellon University 
womens basketball team, was 
named the UAA Player-of-the-Week 
today for her performance In the Tar
tans' win over the University of Roch
ester last week.
Gaitens, a Bulger, Pa., native and 
graduate of Burgettstown High 
School, sparked the Tartans to a 
season-ending 53-50 overtime vic
tory on Saturday with 13 points and 
12 rebounds. She added three steals, 
two assists and one block.
Gaitens finished the season aver
aging 3.7 points and 2.2 rebounds 
per game. She led the team in threepointers (17) and ranked second in 
assists (22).
Five Tartans were named to the AllUAA basketball teams. Carnegie 
Mellons mens selections included 
juniorforwards Jon Blanciak and Kevin 
Byrne, who each earned second-team 
honors, and senior guard Steve 
Athanas, who earned honorable men
tion. From the womens team, fresh
man forward Katie OLeary was a 
second-team selection while sopho
more forward Kristen Kupfer earned 
honorable mention.
Blanciak (Leechburg, Pa.) led 
Carnegie Mellon in rebounding (10.5 
rpg), field goal percentage (.559,137 
of 245) and blocks (18) and ranked 
third in scoring (14.0 ppg). He re
corded 12 double-double perfor
mances on the season. Byrne 
(Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio) was the teams 
leading scorer (17.4 ppg) and sec
ond-leading rebounder (9.4 rpg). He 
also ranked second in field goal per
centage (.455,146 of 321) and steals 
(tied with 23). Athanas (Manchesterby-the-Sea, Mass.) led the Tartans in 
assists (111) and free throw percent
age (.767, 66 of 86). He averaged 
11.4 points and 2.6 rebounds per 
game. Under Head Coach Tony 
Wingen, the mens team finished 
14-11 overall and third in the UAA 
with a 7-7 league record.
OLeary (Woodbridge, Va.) estab
lished herself as one of the top fresh
men in the UAA this year. She fin
ished as the Tartans leading 
rebounder (8.4 rpg) and third-leading 
scorer (8.0 ppg). Kupfer (Cheswick, 
Pa.) ranked second on the team in 
scoring (12.1 ppg) and rebounding 
(7.8 rpg) while recording a team-best 
44 steals. Under Head Coach Gerri 
Seidl, the women's team finished 8- 
17 overall and tied for fifth in the UAA 
with a 3-11 league record.
CMU needs 
baseball field
BASEBALL, continued from page 9
major American universities 
throughout the nation. Add a few 
bleachers and all of a sudden 
Carnegie Mellon can share in the 
prestige of hosting Sunday doubleheaders. And since baseball is a 
sport with which everyone can as
sociate with in one form or an
other, the addition of a field may 
even build a sense of school spirit.
If you build it, they will come, 
wasnt meant for football, nor was 
it a farce either.
As we make rapid improvements 
throughout the campus, from the 
addition of the new University 
Center to the hopeful elimination 
of cockroaches in the womens 
locker room, it is time for Carnegie 
Mellon to catch up to nearly 90 
years of negligence and find a way 
to support the national pastime on 
campus.
Lack of tradition or lack of inter
est cannot be excuses, for this is 
the same University which once 
featured Hall of Famer, Honus 
Wagner, as a coach and even today 
has a hard working group of 1516 
who want to play ball.
In fact, April 20 will even feature 
the Tartan baseball team in a 
matchup at Three Rivers Stadium, 
proving that they are not just a 
weekend sandlot team.
Many say that America is losing 
touch with the deep heritage that 
baseball has provided over the 
years. It is time for Carnegie Mellon 
to help reverse that trend. Lets get 
a field and play ball!
Anuj Gupta is ajunior policy and 
management and president of the 
Baseball Club.
Coach made lasting impact on soccer program, players
By VERNON HARMON
Special to The Tartan
Julie Shackford, the archi
tect of the varsity womens soc
cer program at CMU, has ac
cepted a head coaching posi
tion at Princeton for their 
womens soccer team. She 
leaves CMU with a 42-21-4 
overall record, a remarkable 
.750 winning percentage.
Shackford, a native of 
Fairfax, Virginia, was a three
time Division I All-American 
when she played for William & 
Mary. She was also a four-time 
All-Mideast/
South Region 
selection and a 
three-tim e 
member of the 
United States 
Olympic Festi
val Team. She 
now holds an 
A license from 
the United 
States Soccer 
Federation.
Ive been 
here five years 
and when 
youre young 
and youve 
been in a place
Courtesy CMU Athletic Department 
Julie Shackford will be the new 
womens soccer coach at
that period* of Prlnceton Universlty'
time, you get the urge for 
change. My husband felt that 
way, too, so it just happened. I 
wasnt actively looking for po
sitions. There are a ton of Divi
sion I jobs opening for womens 
soccer [but] I knew that after 
being here I couldnt just go to 
Joe Schmoe State University; 
it would have to be a place where 
the students were bright  
because Ive gotten spoiled by 
[the quality of CMU students], 
frankly. I was encouraged to do 
it and it was a good match [but] 
its hard to leave a place. And 
its hard telling the team  
that was the hardest part about 
the whole thing. Because... you 
get so close to them.
Shackford told her players 
about her intentions on Febru
ary 24. There were a lot of 
tears there, said CMU mens 
soccer coach Nick Gaudioso, 
who attended the meeting at 
Shackfords request. Co-captain 
Maria Casella recalls the situ
ation: She told us that she had 
to talk to us, that she wanted a 
mandatory meeting. We were 
thinking she was pregnant [be
cause] they were talking about 
having kids soon and we were 
just thinking positive. It crossed 
everyones mind, I think, that 
[she might be leaving], but I 
remember once she told us 
[there was] dead silence. It was 
a hard thing to hear. Co-cap
tain Nicole Poisson agrees. It 
was kind of shocking. I think 
all of us feel like were losing a 
mother, a coach, and a best 
friend. In less than two weeks 
the players assembled a small 
album as a tribute to Shackford, 
containing photographs, po
ems, art and words of thanks 
and encouragement. Each 
player contributed a page, says 
Shackford as she shows off the 
album, smiling like a proud 
mother.
When talking about their 
coach, Casella, Poisson, and fel
low co-captain Alyssa Newman 
use the same words over and 
over: amazing, remarkable, 
magnetic, effective, intense, 
motivator. Shes a person I love 
and Im scared to death of, 
admits Poisson. She cracks the 
whip [but] you need that be
cause thats what makes you 
work harder. Newman agrees,- 
I think she [can be] a little bit 
frightening at first. She is very 
demanding but at the same time 
[she is] very protective. You 
definitely get a sense that she 
wants whats best for you. Shes 
been very effective at... [bring
ing] about a very noticeable 
change in some players on our 
team. Shes brought up their 
level of play overall.
In her five years at CMU,
Shackford has brought up the 
level of play of the entire 
womens soccer program, estab
lishing a solid foundation for
the future and a winning atti
tude and tradition. I had done 
coaching, not at the collegiate 
level, but I worked in Virginias 
Olympic Development Program 
and worked with high schools and 
did clinics. So once I got here and 
started with the club team, I real
ized that [coaching] was what I 
wanted to do. We didnt find out 
we were going varsity until May 
of [1991], so I couldnt recruit 
because we didnt know what was 
going to happen, but we did well. 
They kept us on an independent 
schedule  in other words, we 
werent in the [UAA]  and we 
finished 10-4. Af
ter 91 we pushed 
to get ourselves 
into the confer
ence, because my 
thoughts were, 
were gonna get 
pounded in it 
whether we wait 
this year or next 
yearsojustgetus 
into it. Our first 
year in [the UAA] 
we finished 6-10- 
1 and lost every 
game in the con
ference but we 
lost two of them 
1-0 at the end of 
the season so [we 
felt that] we definitely made 
progress despite our record. In 
93, we finished 13-4-1 and won 
a few games in the conference. 
Then this past year, we lost the 
conference on a penalty kick at 
Chicago. It was a nightmare. I 
think as far as the program is 
concerned and as far as the play
ers are concerned, theyve been 
able to see tangible progress ev
ery year. Everything has worked. 
Everything has worked, espe
cially Shackfords overall ap
proach toward the team, which
$10/hour
Guaranteed Base Salary
A national marketing research 
firm is looking for telephone 
interviewers to conduct 
marketing research studies 
over the telephone who speak 
any of the following
Foreign Languages
Chinese
Polish
Vietnamese
Korean
Tagalog
Japanese
Spanish
 Flexible Scheduling
 Part or Full Time
 Paid Vacation
 Paid Training
 Professional Office
 Health Benefits Available
 401 (k) Plan
CALL NOW!
765-3100 ext. 461 
Leave a message.
STUDENT
FARES
LONDON 
PARIS 
MOSCOW 
TEL AVIV 
TOKYO 
MEXICO CITY
$161
$209
$259
$5
$419
$195
$198EUROPASS from
Fares are from Pittsburgh, 1/2 round trips, 
based on a round trip purchase. Taxes not 
included. Ini'! Student ID may be required. 
Fares, are subject to change.
118 Meyran Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
PHONE: 683-1881
FAX: 683-7242
has changed as the program has 
advanced and the level of play 
has improved. Last year things 
were a lot more rigid, points out 
Poisson, a lot more serious, be
cause the stakes were higher. 
In my freshman year, remem
bers Casella, it was we under
stand if you cant make a prac
tice, if youve got a class or youve
[Ed. Note  The following is a personal note from Julie Shackford to the 
CMU community.]
It will be very difficult to leave Carnegie Mellon, a place that has become 
very special to me. It will always be my first head coaching job, the first 
university I worked at, and the first team I have come to know and love over 
the past four-and-a-half years. We have definitely had success on the field; 
an overall record of 42-21-4, eight all-conference players, three all-region 
players and yes, even one all-American. However, it is the off-the-field" 
experience that has helped me grow the most, both as a coach, but more 
importantly, as a person.
Student-athletes at Carnegie Mellon are students first. The players have 
averaged over a 3.0 since the inception of the program. They are architects, 
engineers, science, and humanities majors. They are student ambassa
dors, orientation counselors and volunteers in the Carnegie Mellon and 
Pittsburgh community. They are focused and energetic, and they care very 
much about athletics, and soccer. I have worked with them to help them see 
that soccer is a lot like life  there are wins and losses, and peaks and 
valleys. However, soccerteaches more than that. The players have learned 
to set realistic goals and achieve them. They have learned how to be team 
players while still being competitive. They have learned that the only way to 
really achieve is through "blood, sweat and tears". I have seen them through 
the whole continuum of human emotions, and I have been a part of their 
development as people. I am extremely grateful for that. I am also thankful 
that the administration gave me a chance to build a successful program with 
unbelievable people. I know Carnegie Mellon understands the value of 
having well-rounded students and that athletics is an integral part of the 
learning process.
If you get a chance, please watch the womens soccer team in action. 
Come to a practice, support the team at games. You will find a group of 
talented women who care about soccer, and care about Carnegie Mellon. I 
would like to thank all of the players for making my Carnegie Mellon 
experience a valuable one: Erika Banuelos, Maria Casella, Bridget Caster, 
Lauren deRosset, Mae Hogan, Christina Isaly, Kendra McCoy, Kelsi Mont
gomery, Katherine Morrison, Alyssa Newman, Julie Paul, Nicole Poisson, 
Karlie Radford, Kristen Rathbun, Jill Sincaglia, Courtney Spence, Marla 
Spontak, Kim Toda, Kim Umeda, Mary Wall, Kathi Watson, and Jill Weber.
Thank you for everything. I would also like to thank Nick Gaudioso, the 
mens soccer players, Dave Potter, all the "soccer" alumni, Dr. John Harvey, 
Joan Maser, Dr. Susan Henry and Dr. Robert Mehrabian. I will miss every 
one of you, and you will always hold a place in my heart. The will to win 
comes from a desire. And desire is often the motivating factor for a group 
or an individual to accomplish something. This desire, however, is only 
significant when accompanied by action. It is the action and effort put forth 
towards achieving a goal thats important  that makes us feel proud and 
confident and keeps the desire alive (from a Carnegie Mellon womens 
soccer player)." Good luck and please keep in touch.
Julie Shackford
Women's Soccer Coach
got too much work. And then Iasi 
year, [we couldnt] miss anything 
for any reason. She tried to ke< 
that line [between coach and 
peer], but it was always so difg. 
cult. We started out so close and 
then the better we got the more 
she tried to separate herself [from 
us]. It worked but it didnt. The 
last season she really tried to 
stay separated but now that shes 
leaving weve become really close 
like buddies.
Now the players are concerned 
about the future of the team. Be. 
cause the team played so much 
for their coach, theres some concem about next years intensity. 
Casella doesnt seem too worried, 
though. Everyone is very excited 
and confident in the teams abil. 
ity. We know... that we can compete with anyone.There are also 
rumors that some players may 
transfer because Shackford is 
leaving. Poisson, Newman and 
Casella, though, plan to stick 
around and they hope to have a 
hand in selecting Shackfords re
placement. I think were g( 
to get a real good group of qualified candidates for this position,5 
says Shackford, because its a 
great job. The school sells itself, 
so Im hoping that well get some
body good in here. My biggest 
concern in leaving the program is 
that it remains in good stand
ing.
Eventually, Shackford would 
like to get a position as an Ath
letic Director.
In regard to her career at CMU, 
Shackford says, I have never had 
one single regret working here, 
which might be surprising to a lot 
of people. Some people are not 
fully aware of how good a place 
CMU is and I encourage them to 
take advantage of all the great 
resources here, most of all, the 
people.
We only taste expensive.
Out late after a school event or just out doing 
the southside and the munchies hit, stop in be
cause were OPEN LATE.
Besides great steaks we have a full sandwich 
menu, from burgers to HUGE fish 
sandwiches.
NEW PARTY ROOM OPEN, GREAT FOR 
FRATERNnY/SORORIIY FORMALS. OPEN 
TILL 12 ON WEEKDAYS, 1 ON WEEKENDS.
Pittsburgh Steak Co.  1924 E. Carson St.  Pittsburgh, PA 15203  381-5505

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  13 March 199511
ADMINISTRATION
Intramural Director  Mike 
jstroianni, X8-2214; Assistant Dijor Mike Grzywlnski, 683-2938; 
jamural Secretary  Michelle 
itta, X8-2053; President  Jim 
jon,x2-3872; Women's President 
/unyWatchom, X2-2629; Vice Presit Matt Williams, X2-2490
ieanu lG rkSlgaeton
Monday, March 13, & Tuesday, 
tch 14 3-on-3 Basketball Tourment, 6:15 pm
Juesday, March 14  IM Board 
g, 4:30 pm, 1M Office
Wednesday, March 15 IM WresigMeet - Main Gym, 6:30 pm
fhursday, March 16  Co-Rec & 
am Badminton Tournament - 6 
i, Main Gym
Thursday, March 16Entries due 
all the following sports: Indoor 
jccer, Softball, Co-Rec Softball, 
limning, Weight Lifting- 4:30 pm, 
I Office
Monday, March 27, & Tuesday, 
28  Foul Shooting, 6:30- 
30 pm, Main Gym
Juesday, March 28  3-Point 
otOut, 6:30 pm, Main Gym
BASKETBALL
The Intramural Department would 
 to congratulate all of the 1995 
asketball Champions, as well as all 
e teams, for a very successful seaHAMPIONS:
MINORS  Barbara's Men 
INTERMEDIATE  ECE Lightening 
MAJORS  GSIA-1 
WOMEN  KAPPA/DG 
MINORS-NIT  Death Pumpkins
Hie Intramural Department would 
so like to thank all of the officials 
id Intramural workers who made 
el995 season a major success.
3-0N-3 BASKETBALL
Please check the Intramural Office 
firet round games. The 3-on-3 
mament will begin tonight, Monsy, March 13.
The two-day tournament has a total 
48 teams participating. Brackets 
tall three divisions can be picked 
) In the IM Office.
SOFTBALL/CO-REC SOFTBALL/ 
INDOOR SOCCER
Entries forthese three major activisare due into the IM Office by 4:30 
, March 16.
Games for softball and indoor sociwill begin after spring break on 
Mnesday, March 29. Teams that 
e submitted rosters should check 
Office after spring break for 
*edules and times of games.
WATER BASKETBALL
Playoffs forwater basketball will be 
sted on Wednesday, March 15. 
*>se teams still in playoff conten>n should check the IM Office for 
and times of playoff games.
FLOOR HOCKEY
Schedule make-ups and changes 
Posted on the IM Bulletin Board. 
1,1 only two weeks of regular sea11 remaining, teams should make 
leall games are completed before 
* Playoffs begin.
IM BOARD MEETING
to Intramural board meeting will 
'held tomorrow, March 14 at 4:30 
1 in the IM office. If there are any 
es*ins please call the IM office at 
2214.
OFFICIALS
Intramural Department is look',or both soccer and softball offiIf you have an Interest in either 
Jse sports, please call IM Direcke Mastroianni at X8-2214 or 
Pfc>ythe IM Office, Gym room 101.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
11 WAKE FOREST16l NCA&T
81 MINNESOTA
9I ST. LOUIS
5l ALABAMA
121 PENNSYLVANIA"
41 OKLAHOMA ST 
13l DREXR
FINAL FOUR
6l TULSA
111 ILLINOIS
EAST
31 VILLANOVA
141 OLD DOMINION
7l UNO-CHARI OTTT 
101 STANFORD
21 MASSACHUSETTS151 ST.PETER'S ~
Theart
161 FLORIDA INTL ~ 
81 MISSOURI !
9] INDIANA
51 MISSISSIPPI ST.~
121 SANTA CLARA " 
41 UTAH ~
131 LONG BEACH Sr
KENTUCKY 11
MOUNT ST. MAflVSl 16 
B18
Comic
ARIZONA ST. 15
BALL ST. 112
SOUTHEAST
OKLAHOMA 14
MANHATTAN 113
GEORGETOWN 16
MICHIGAN ST. 13
WEBER ST. 114
IOWA ST. 17
_EU!B1DAJ10
N0RTHCAR0LINAI2 
MURRAY ST. 115
6l OREGON
111 TEXAS
WEST
31MARYLAND
141 GONZAGA
71 CINCINNATI!
10tIEMELE_
2| CONNECTICUT
15l TENN-CHATTANNOGr
KANSAS 11
C0LGATE|16
[-HVFSTEBN KFNTUCK18 
MICHGN19
ARIZ0NAI5
MIAMI ICH1I12
MIDWEST
s.ft.e.ur
NICH0I.LSST.I13 
MEMPHIS 16
PURDUE 13
WISC0NSIN-GBI14
1995 NCAA TOURNAMENT
SYRACUSE 17
SOUTMN ILLINOIS 110 
ARKANSAS]2
-I TEXAS SQJMISS. VALLEY ST. 115
Franclne Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor, Derek Wahlla/Tartan Production Manager, and Matt Solltro/Tartan Sports Editor
Speculation on Jordan adds to March Madness
BASKETBALL, from page 9
take it all in the championship 
game over UNC.
Lets skip-pass over to the 
National Basketball Associa
tion (NBA) now. Michael Jor
dan is expected to announce 
this week that hell be rejoining 
the Chicago Bulls. On Friday 
the worlds most famous minor-league baseball player quit 
the sport for which he left bas
ketball a year and a half ago, 
saying the baseball strike was 
limiting his opportunity to grow 
as a player. He practiced with 
the Bulls a few times last week, 
and reports are he will take a 
few weeks to get himself into 
what he deems to be proper 
game shape before lacing up 
the Airs again for NBA compe
tition.
That sound you heard, by the 
way, was the drool from team 
owners across the league hit
ting the floor. The NBAs popu
larity is at an all-time high, de
spite the fact that the league has 
been receiving quite a bit of nega
tive publicity this season because 
of the behavior of some of its 
younger players. Now, the return 
of one of the most well-liked play
ers in NBA history gives the 
league a double shot of excite
ment.
First, those fans turned off by 
the money-hungry youngsters 
who seem to play for money and 
fame instead of championships 
will be entertained once again by 
one of the games greatest com
petitors. Second, the NBA has 
hung its marketing hat almost 
solely on the broad shoulders of 
Orlandos Shaquille ONeal since 
Jordan retired last October, and 
the league has still done remark
ably well in that area. Now, the 
man, who along with Magic 
Johnson and Larry Bird, helped 
revitalize the sports national 
popularity, returns.
The best part? The owners get 
all of these positive consequences 
and dont have to worry about 
him beating them when he comes 
back. Sources who are reporting 
Jordan is to return say he isnt 
concerned with the Bulls playoff 
status; hell come back when hes 
ready, in about two to three 
weeks. He may be the greatest 
player ever, but even Jordan wont 
be in top form in that short an 
amount of time.
He hasnt experienced the
pounding an NBA player takes 
night in, night out in almost two 
years, and hell be playing against 
guys who have been doing it for 
the last six months. Also, the Bulls 
arent a very good team anymore. 
Horace Grant is no longer there, 
and Scottie Pippen is not going to 
take a back seat to a guy that 
hasnt played in that long, even if 
that guy is Jordan. Jordan may 
come back, but dont expect the 
Bulls to go any further in the 
playoffs than they would have
without himthe second round.
Before we sign off for the week, 
congratulations are in order to 
all of the teams that participated 
in IM Night. As usual, Intramu
ral Director Mike Mastroianni 
and his staff did a great job with 
the whole thing, making it an 
enjoyable experience for every
one involved. Hail to the victors, 
and well see you in two weeks.
Darren Chiappetta is a junior 
English major.
classified
Hockey seniors made impact
HOCKEY, from page 9
freshman year, and so earned 
his position as defensive cap
tain and alternate captain for 
the team. He will also be re
membered for his fiery temper, 
which sometimes put him in 
the penalty box, but also sent a 
message to the opponent about 
the aggressiveness of the Tar
tan hockey team.
Blair Echols, while never a 
serious offensive threat, played 
consistent defense and provided 
leadership as team president 
in his junioryear and vice-president this year. He definitely 
plays above his size  he 
weighs in at 130 pounds (on a 
good day!)  but dishes out 
more than his fair share of 
checks and scrappy plays.
Dave Bott/Tartan Art Staff
Tom Sullivan leaves the team 
as a seasoned veteran. While not 
a senior, he has been with the 
team while pursuing his PhD in 
Electrical and Computer Engi
neering at CMU. His play vastly 
improved during his time with 
the Tartans. He initially was not 
a strong skater, and this detracted 
from his defensive play. However, 
the past two years he has gained 
new confidence and improved his 
skating to become a defensive 
force with the Tartans, as CMLPs 
second alternate captain. He also 
contributed much to the team off 
the ice as an officer who worked 
closely with the league to gain 
legitimacy for the Tartans.
Greg Jessops play was char
acterized by physical defense and 
a blisteringly-accurate shot from 
the point. Jessop and 
Mann anchored CMLPs 
defense for threeyears. 
This season he left the 
blueline to play for
ward and contributed 
five points in six 
games. He was missed 
the second semester 
when he left to study 
in Mexico.
Eric is a senior psy
chology / philosophy 
major.
Corey is a senior 
MSE / econ major.
ADOPTION
AdoptionA loving choice. We 
can offer your precious baby our 
hearts, the sun, moon, stars and 
financial security. Very sensitive to 
all issues surrounding adoption.
Call Doug & Tracy to see if this is 
the right choice for you. All 
allowable expenses paid. 1-800- 
440-6024.
QOURSE INFO 
Engineering/Architectural 
Students: Enhance your skills and 
employment opportunities by 
learning Autocad Version 12 at 
Pittsburgh Technical Institute. 
Short-term (seven weeks) evening 
classes start monthly. For informa
tion contact Carmen Sporio. 471- 
1011.
J7AD OPTI
Natasha's  Vintage & new
designer bridal gowns and accesso
ries. Fabulous prices. 551 Beaver 
Street, Sewickly. (412) 741-9484. 
Mon-Sat 10-5 pm.
HOUSING
Graduate or mature students. No. 
Oakland Craig St. New 1 bedrm & 
eff. AC & W.W. Sec Blvd. Heat & 
water inc. $450 & up. 682-1194 
& 731-0450.
North Oakland  AH utilities 
included! Reserve your 1 or 2 
bedroom for fall now. Avoid the 
rush and move into a spacious 
unfurnished apartment with 
intercom, storage, and laundry 
facilities in a super location. 1 
bedroom starts $435, 2 bedroom
starts at $545. All utilities included. 
Call today! 391-6160.
Summer and fall rental. Shadyside 
one bedroom and efficiency apart
ments. Close to campus. On 
campus shuttle bus route. Close to 
shopping. Very clean and spotless. 
Private bathrooms and kitchens. 
Spacious bookshelves. Roomy 
closets. Very secure apartment 
buildings. From $235. Call 683- 
0776.
JOBS
Starr's Escort is hiring exotic 
dancers models & masseuses. Earn 
$75-100 / hour. Call 344-2676.
Mailing Products  Easy work & 
easy pay. Send SASE to: INTL, 2221 
Peachtree Road N.E., Suite D-415, 
Atlanta, GA 30309.
Wanted: Personal Assistant. 
Attractive, intelligent coed wanted by 
attractive, generous SWPM for light 
housekeeping, errands, travel, etc.
734-8422.
Get paid to see movies! Part-time 
job opportunity to work with a major 
Hollywood studio! Visit the Career 
Center at 19 Warner Hall for more 
information. Application deadline is 
April 15.
Challenge your Cognitive Skills  
CMU Psychology Department. Our 
research group is creating a database 
of subjects to contact for future 
experiments on learning and 
problem solving. Flexible times 
available, average pay $5 per hour 
plus performance bonuses, most
experiments are multiple sessions. 
The experimenter will contact you 
via email or phone as experiments 
become available! If you would like 
to be added to our database, please 
respond via email. Be sure to 
include your name, phone number, 
and email address. Send to 
helen+@cmu.edu.
Health Educator Develop health 
education materials. Requires good 
writing and computer skills. BS 
psychology or related field needed. 
Resumes: Clinical Tools Inc., 5105 
Bayard St, Pgh 15232. Fax: 683- 
6490.
artnAsra
Typing Service  Laser printer $3/ 
page class papers, theses, disserta
tions, resumes $25, technical typing 
extra 242-9781.
JRAVEL
Fly Dirt Cheap! Caribbean/Mexico 
$189 R/T. Europe $169. Air-Tech 
Ltd. 212/219-7000. 
info@aerotech.com.
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........$5.00/wk
21-50 words.........$8.00/wk
51-100 words......$11.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon Univerisity 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and organiza
tions may pay by journal transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Elections are coming! Elections are coming!
Hurry up and join the fun-filled world of
Elections are April 6-8
To be considered eligible to hold a seat, 
you must meet the following criteria:
Be an Activities Fee paying student of Carnegie Mellon University.
Be a member of" the college you wish to represent.
File a petition with 25 signatures of students from the college that you wish to represent. 
Students may sign as many petitions as there are openings in each college. If a signature 
appears on more than this number of petitions, it becomes invalid.
Election petitions (to have your name on the ballot at elections) are due March 23. 
Petitions must be returned to Box 6199, Student Center.
If there are any questions, send email to student-senate@cmu.edu.
Official Petition for Student Senate
Name; 
Colleger 
Date:___
Address:__________________
. Vacancy or Ballot petition? 
Campus Phone:_________
PRINTED NAMESIGNATURE
SX 1 S
O(8
eoG3
3O>
>J2
+*C0)h0)aoor"0"8C3
LL

---------------------------------------------------

Kerry Hagan/Tartan Photo Staff jfm Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor Kerry Hagan/Tartan Photo Staff
From left to right: Sigma Alpha Epsilon serenades A night with oP blue eyes, Delta Upsilon gets down with The Blues Brothers, and Kappa Alpha Theta and Delta Tau Delta team up to let down some Hair.
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
fartan Staffwriter
Saturday, Carnegie Mellons Greek community 
came together at Soldiers and Sailors Memorial 
Hall in order to present Greek Sing, their annual 
fund-raising event, which raises money for diari
es in the greater Pittsburgh area.
Each house puts together a 10-minute act that 
is based on a musical, song, movie or any other type 
of production, said Justin Carroll, a sophomore 
creative writing and drama major and co-chair for 
Delta Tau Delta in Greek Sing.
"There are two divisions. The singles division 
consisting of an act performed by just one sorority 
or fraternity, and the mixed division, in which a 
fraternity and sorority work together in one act, 
id Carroll.
The mixed and singles categories are judged 
separately, in addition to an overall winner, who 
receive a plaque listing the winners from the first 
Greek Sing, until the year 2003.
Working on Greek Sing is a lot of fun as well as 
worthy project. Theres a certain amount of 
healthy competition between the houses, but mainly 
strong running desire to 
have a good time.
Doing it with a sorority adds new dimensions, new 
peoples, interaction and ideas. When two houses 
come together, it augments the level of talent 
within the Greek system, while creating new 
relationships. Its also an absolute blast, said 
Carroll.
The show began at seven, showing various 
levels of talent and effort, from Sigma Nus Broth
ers Act: Bad Habits to the very entertaining 
rendition of Hair, by Kappa Alpha Theta and 
Delta Tau Delta.
The highlight of the second half of the evening 
was Delta Upsilons version of The Blues Broth
ers, in which the enthusiasm and effort of the men 
of DU shone through.
Its a pretty important activity. People want to 
excel at Greek Sing, said Carroll.
Greek Sing is the largest display ... of the 
vitality of the Greek System on campus, said 
Kappa Alpha Thetas Shannon Lemrow, the over
all chair on the Greek Sing executive board and 
junior chemistry major. Lemrow sees Greek Sing 
as an opportunity for this enthusiasm to come 
through and be put to good use.
This year, the proceeds from Greek Sing will 
benefit the Make-A-Wish Foundation of West
ern Pennsylvania, an organization that
fulfills the wishes of children with life threatening 
illnesses.
Included in the program was two representa
tives from the Make-A-Wish Foundation, one a 
child with cystic fibrosis who has benefited from 
the organization.Throughout the years, since 1953, 
Greek Sing has supported numerous charities and 
civicgroups, from hospitals, community programs, 
and medical research.
It is the goal of the CMU Greek society to encour
age the growth and improvement of the Pittsburgh 
community through contributions such as Greek 
Sing. While each fraternity and sorority does its 
part to help the community, Greek Sing allows the 
system to work together as a whole, combining 
their efforts and talents.
Greek Sing gives the various houses opportu
nity to demonstrate their individual talents and 
also benefit from what the other houses have to 
offer as well, said Dana Heath, freshmen psychol
ogy major of Kappa Alpha Theta.
The diversity of CMU as a whole is represented 
in its Greek Sing event, adds Delta Tau Deltas 
Eric Borts, freshman Electrical and Chemical En
gineering major.
Its a concentration of the best we have to offer,
Borts added. Showing the well-roundedness of
the CMU Greeks, Greek Sing illustrated one of the 
many philanthropic measures taken by a sect of 
our campus community.
Competition is also a key aspect of the event. 
With this in mind, the final results announced at 
Greek Swing, which took place Sunday after
noon in the gym, were eagerly anticipated.
Sigma Tau Gamma were the big winners of the 
event, as they were awarded first place in the 
singles category, as well as first place overall, for 
Sesame Street. Delta Upsilon placed second for 
their rendition of The Blues Brothers, and Kappa 
Delta Rho followed with their version of Pink 
Floyds The Wall.
In the mixed division, the women of Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, and the men of Phi Kappa Theta 
were awarded first place for their collaborative 
effort in Tommy. Delta Tau Delta and Kappa 
Alpha Theta won second place, for their interpre
tation of Hair.
Jennifer Hill, a sophomore in industrial man
agement, and a sister of Kappa Kappa Gamma, 
said, There were a ton of great shows. The quality 
of all of the acts was really good. Everyone put in 
a lot of effort. Sigma Tau Gamma was a suprise, 
because theyve never been a big winner in the 
past.
Mr. WRITE.M Neighborhood
A short trolley rde away...
Out About Town
by Laura McClure
The one and only time I ever mentioned that I lived in Mr. Rogers neighborhood, the person I was 
talking to laughed  and immediately changed the subject to Andy Warhol. Hey, the whole shoe 
thing never really did it for me, either.
Nevertheless, last Tuesday, I too made the pilgrimage to see Fred in the flesh, when The Book 
Center on Fifth hosted childhood television staple Fred Rogers, signing his latest book, You 
Are Special. And although I personally didnt walk home with an autographed copy, I did get 
a chance to thumb through The Wit And Wisdom of Newt Gingrich, people-watch, and fidget 
while I waited to meet him in the 80-person line that stretched all the way from Do Cats 
Think ? to All Colour Desserts and Pastries.
Being an optimist, I also tried to reflect upon more important matters than the fact that 
someone who was not related to me had just spit on my leg. Matters like, say, why not to have 
children. The line had all the signs of a pre-school given sugar and turned loosehaggard parents 
on lunch break trying to explain why it was bad to throw teething rings at the nice lady ahead in 
line, off-key Barney lullabies, and numerous conversations starting with the words: Whats 
 your mom look like, honey?
After an hour, someone came up with the idea of reading a story to the kids in line (since we 
were, after all, in a bookstore) and came back with How Droopus the Dragon Lost His Head'
If you got bored with Droopus, there were also old episodes of Mr. Rogers Neighborhood' 
playing on the centralized television with built in VCR.
Or you could read the book you were there for, the one touted as wise and humane advice for
 adults who care about children, childhood, and the child within all of us. With two hours to wait 
in line, you could do a lot.
Surprisingly, not many people seemed to mind the wait. If the idea of a Polaroid of the man and
a book inscribed with You are special,_____seems anti-climactic, the conversation that went on
at the book table was not.
The hush that fell when fans stood and talked to an older, grayer Mr. Rogers would have fit in 
\y a church. Whatever they said quietly to him was more than Im a big fan.
Whatever they received was worth the wait. What impressed me most in meeting Mr. Rogers was 
his loyalty to the children who had come to see him.
The Book Center had scheduled him to sign books from noon to 1:30 pmhe stayed 
until after 3.
Sitting next to a full Beehive coffee mug and a suitcoat, slightly wrinkled, you could tell 
that he was tired. After two hours in line, so was I.
And yet he was still there when I left, trying to move the kids to the front of 
the line so he could at least meet them, part of a whole new generation 
of viewers.
As Mr. McFeely explained to me, Theyre children. We couldnt 
just leave. And for a whole new generation of inner children,
\ -V\ they probably wont.
S>\\
' Laura McClure is a junior professional and creative writing 
major. She is looking forward to visiting Mr. Rogers Neigh 
borhood as soon as she can build up her sweater 
collection and change her shoes.
Francine Gemperle/Tartan 
Art Co-Editormnnnnni
Program improves 
girls confidence
By MICHELLE HALL
Tartan Staffwriter
On April 27, dont be surprised if you see groups of adolescent girls 
walking around campus and through various academic and admin
istrative buildings. April 27 is Take Our Daughters to Work Day 
1995, a public education program launched by the Ms. Foundation 
in 1993. The program is a response to distressing research by the 
American Association of University Women, the Minnesota Womens 
Fund, and Harvard University researchers on the female adolescent 
development.
The findings show that while preadolescent girls are often confi
dent and outspoken, girls between the ages of nine and 15 become 
shy, tend to have negative body image, and receive less attention in 
school than boys. Girls at this age likewise suffer from lower 
expectations than their male counterparts.
In a letter to participants, Gail Maynor, the Take Our Daughters 
to Work director, said, It is during these formative years that 
countless girls also grapple with eating disorders, teen pregnancy, 
poverty, substance and sexual abuse, and distrust in the promise of 
education.
Research has shown that by intervening with girls before these 
problems take root, we can help girls grow up with confidence, in 
good health and ready to fulfill their dreams.
For the Ms. Foundation and the 25 million people who participated 
in Take Our Daughters to Work 1994, the program is a solution. It 
may not change a girls life, but it can expose her to a whole network 
of support she may not have known existed.
The hope of the program is to demystify the working world, said 
Brenda Graham, an employee for Administrative Computing and 
Information Services here at CMU, and an active participant and 
organizer for Take Our Daughters to Work. It gives girls a chance 
to see women in the working world doing a variety of things, she 
added.
At Carnegie Mellon, Take Our Daughters to Work Day will be split 
into three parts. The morning will include the girls shadowing 
their sponsors in their work environment, so that the girls may have 
the chance to see what their sponsor does, if not do some work 
themselves. There will also be a luncheon where former mayor 
Sophie Masloff will speak, presumably on this years theme: A Girl 
is Watching. What is She Learning? The afternoon is comprised of 
site visits and presentations to small groups of girls in which they 
will see the diverse ways in which women are employed on the 
campus.
Various academic and administrative departments will be taking 
part in the program including Art, Architecture, Civil Engineering, 
Design, Drama, English, EPP, Athletics, Computing Services, De
velopment, and Facility Management Services. Girls will also get to 
visit Robotics and the Infant Motor Development Lab.
Carnegie Mellon students will play a role in escorting girls to 
various sites and participating in some of the activities, giving the 
girls a unique perspective on the working world and life after 
adolescence. As far as student involvement is concerned, we are 
hoping students will agree to act as CMU ambassadors, said Cindy 
Smith, an employee of the Career Center.
Please see DAUGHTERS, page L3
Volume 89, Issue 19
T XT TT1 T rn
BQDDE9QQPQD
TI V mvj
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania13 March 1995GREEKS SING FOR CHARITY
h

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  13 March 1995
Let Old Man Donner warm your tummy with yummy soup
Old Man Donner
by Jason Roth
Have you survived? What have you 
been eating? You look terribly thinso 
wasted! Please, come inside and tell me 
what happened. What? You fell asleep 
on a bench Tuesday and awoke still 
wearing shorts but under 3" of snow? 
You poor dear. Let Old Man Donner 
warm you up with some soups (the last 
batch of the season, you know). The 
heartiest is:
Bean Soup
olive oil
3 cloves minced garlic
2 chopped onions
3 cups dried navy beans
(soaked overnight)
3 quarts chicken broth
2 tsp. salt (pref. kosher)
11/2 tsp. chopped rosemary
11/2 tsp. chopped thyme
Pepper
No, your Old Man hasnt gone senile, 
nor has the cold gone to his brain; this 
recipe is not a repeat. This is a rather 
different bean soup from any Ive made, 
thicker and simpler. I would like to tell 
you to make your own chicken broth, but
I dont believe anyone would anyway 
(prove me wrong, please), so Ill just 
point out that the powdered stuff is so 
salty that you wont need the additional 
salt if you use it.
Anyway, do the standard onion/garlic 
thing and add the broth and beans. Bring 
to a boil and then simmer about 11/2 
hours, until the beans are tender. Here 
comes the neat part: remove 11/2 cups of 
beans only (slotted spoon or innovate) 
and two cups of broth, and puree them in 
a blender (find your neighbor down the 
hall who cant live without daiquiris, 
and borrow his). Return to the soup, add 
the spices (ideally fresh, but who am I 
kidding?), and simmer five minutes 
more.
And there you go. This is a lot of soup, 
the blending makes all the difference, 
and youll be much happier if you use 
real chicken stock (please, ask me).
French Onion Soup
3 lbs sliced onions
1 Tb butter
5 cups beef broth
1/2 cup apple juice
1 Tb Cognac
Une Baguette
Gruyere (Swiss cheese)
Everyones favorite, this is indeed the 
gooey, cheese-covered delight thats a 
standard at so many semi-classy joints.
What you want to do with the onions 
and butter is to caramelize the onion, 
meaning cook it until soft and brown 
and sweet  half an hour of semi-constant turning and stirring in the biggest 
pan you can muster.
Once its at this point (dont rush it), 
add the broth and juice, boil and simmer 
for a half hour.
To be consistent, an admonishment 
about using your own beef broth would 
appear here, but Im only human, and I 
dont have a pot big enough for an entire 
cow carcass.
Throw in the Cognac (if youre feeling 
extravagant) and cook another five min
utes.
Here comes the important part: get 
good, sturdy, broiler-proof bowls, ladle 
in the soup, top with thick slices of bread, 
cover with cheese, and broil until perfect 
(maybe two minutes). This is so good 
and rich, its almost a meal unto itself.
One thing  this is a lot of onion; 
either increase the broth or drop the 
onion to as little as 2 lbs if you dont like 
eating a lot of onion (that said, my tastetester, a big fan of this soup but ambiva
lent towards actual chunks of onion, 
didnt mind 3 lbs).
Cream of Asparagus Soup
1/4 cup butter 
onion, finely chopped 
celery stalk, finely chopped
4 cups chicken stock
3 lbs asparagus
2 baking potatoes, peeled & cubed
2 Tb basil
2 cups heavy cream
First off, a word about asparagus. I 
hope youve all learned to enjoy this 
wonderful, tender vegetable thats so 
delicious with Hollandaise or just but
ter. The first harvest was just in the 
stores, and in about a month, cheap 
asparagus will be plentiful (keep an eye 
out for good prices, on the order of $l/lb).
The thing to know about asparagus is 
that thinner is always better  other
wise its tough. Whenever you prepare 
it, it needs to be trimmed (cut off the 
tough bottoms), but for soup just remove 
non-green parts of the stalks. Chop off 
the heads and then cut the stalks into 1 " 
segments. Now youre ready to soup it 
up.
Melt the butter (its a lot) in a big pot 
and then saut the onion and celery 
until translucent, three to five minutes.
Add the stock, stalks, potatoes, basil, 
and all but a few heads (the heads get 
steamed for garnishthey float classily
atop the soup). Boil and simmer, coy! 
ered, about 20 minutes, again until teij 
der.
Heres where that blender really con^ 
in: puree the whole thing in small batche 
(it might help to use a large bowl as  
transfer point), making certain to strain 
it (slotted spoon or sieve).
I foolishly ignored this direction the 
first time I made the soup, and it caity 
out delicious but full of tiny fiberssk 
dont shirk, you 20-something slacker^ 
(Hey, anyone hear the DVE comedy 
for Generation X-lax? Hilarious!).
Once everythings pureed, add that 
cream (screw fat counts, this stuff j| 
amazing), salt and pepper, and cook the 
whole thing a bit longer.
You can cook the reserved tips in th| 
microwave for about 30 seconds '**1
or boil them for a couple minutes 
always, until tender; next week Ill 
you beef jerky, and you can broil it untfl 
its hard enough to sharpen and use as i 
weapon in a prison riot).
And there you go! An unbelievably 
classy soup that will make people as 
sume that youve a secret fortune and 
limo at your disposal. Man, do I envj 
you.
This outpouring of soup, by the way.ij 
dedicated to our very own Lady MacBetlj 
cause shes just plain nuts ... for soup!;
Don't underestimate the power of OiJ 
Man Donner!
Adamson awards writing excellence
By ALLEE KING
Tartan Staffwriter
If you have ever had the desire 
to win an Academy Award, and 
yet you are not an actor, and do 
not aspire to be one, you may still 
be able to fulfill your wish this 
upcoming spring by entering one 
or many pieces of your writing in 
the Adamson Writing Contest.
In 1983, Clarence H. Adamson, 
a graduate of Carnegie Tech, gave 
CMU and the Universitys De
partment of English several gifts 
in memory of his deceased wife.
These gifts included the 
Adamson Scholarship for under
graduate women majoring in 
English, the Adamson Awards 
for Writing, a fund to support an 
annual series of lectures by dis
tinguished authors, and the 
Pauline B. Adamson Wing, lo
cated in Baker Hall.
It was Adamsons intention for 
each of these gifts to be a testimo
nial to the 35 years that he shared 
with his wife, as well as a recog
nition of the significance that 
education, language, and litera
ture had in her life.
The Adamson Awards provides 
a chance for undergraduates and 
graduates of any major, from any 
college, to try their hand at writ
ing in many different areas. The
categories are: poetry, prose, non
fiction, and screen-writing, as 
well as various other specified 
awards outside of this categori
cal judging.
At the discretion of the judges, 
monetary awards and an honor
able mention are given in each 
category to undergraduate and 
graduate students. $300 dollars 
is given for first prize, $100 for 
second, and $50 for third.
Students can enter as many 
categories as they wish, but can 
enter only one piece in each one. 
In order to prevent any bias, the 
judge panel consists of a few fac
ulty members, visiting writers, 
and other professionals within 
the various categories from out
side the University community.
The fact that most faculty are 
not allowed to be judges does not 
bother Jane Bernstein, a profes
sor from the English Department. 
Because we are not judges, we 
get to stand up on stage the night 
of the ceremony, and have fun 
announcing the winners.
Bernstein said that the 
Adamson Awards was her favor
ite event at CMU. It is a very 
festive event, just like the Acad
emy Awards. Everyone dresses 
up, and we [the facultyl get to go 
up one stage and say The winner 
is... said Bernstein.
Every year brings a professional 
writer to the Adamson Wing, 
where the ceremony is held. Last 
year, Jamaica Kincaid, an au
thor well-known for writing about 
her youth in the Caribbean, was 
the visiting writer. This year Rob
ert Creeley, a well-known poet, 
will be the featured writer of the 
night.
Due to the visiting writers, the 
Awards ceremony is usually at
tended by the Pittsburgh and 
CMU community.
Bernstein described the event 
as shes seen it in the past three 
years that she has been a faculty 
member as well-attended, and the 
Adamson Wing as being packed 
with people.
The contest has been greatly 
successful over the years. The 
recipients of awards do vary be
tween majors and colleges.
Bernstein said that sometimes, 
there is one person that makes a 
sweep, meaning that they win 
awards in many categories, and 
other times the awards are spread 
among many different recipients.
The deadline for submission is 
March 27. All submissions must 
be original, typed works. Addi
tional information can be ob
tained from the English Depart
ment, Baker Hall 259.
Columnist goes outback in Oz
Out Where?
by Eric Salzman
Can I possibly start my col
umn off with anything other 
than Gday mates!?
Yes, I have finally arrived in 
Australia, where I will be a 
student at the University of 
New South Wales  or as they 
say here in Oz, New South 
Wales University.
With only two days in the 
Sydney area under my belt, I 
have not yet been completely 
immersed in Australian cul
ture. However, there are some 
keen differences I can fill you in 
on.
First of all, they dont speak 
English, and neither do we. 
They speak Australian. We 
speak American, and the En
glish speak English.
Heres some quick American 
to Australian translation for 
you: ketchup is tomato sauce, a
pitcher is a jug, a large or small is 
a sconner or a mini, a napkin is a 
serviette (a napkin here is afeminine hygiene product),. and a 
fanny pack is a bum bag (fanny 
refers to female genitalia, and 
yes, you get lots of fanny looks 
when you say fanny pack on the 
public bus).
Money here is different too  
not just in design, but in style as 
well.
There are no pennies in Aus
tralia (except for the loose change 
of American tourists), but there 
is acoin of comparable size worth 
two dollars, forcing newcomers 
to be a bit more careful with loose 
change.
Yes, as you all probably know, 
Australians drive on the other 
side ofthe road. I'd say the wrong 
side, but some people here may 
see this.
I didnt think that it would be 
much of a problem until I found 
myself in the middle of the road 
with a taxi approaching head on. 
Dont worrythe driver stopped. 
He even apologized. The people 
here are so nice.
Now let me get to what you all 
want to know about: beer. Beer 
here costs a lot, but it flows like a 
river. A six-pack of MGD goes for
16 Australian dollars which is 
roughly 12 U.S. dollars. Then 
again, its important here.
The local bar, or as they call 
it, hotel, is about 100 times the 
size of PHI. It is on the beach, 
has six or seven rooms, pool 
tables, computer poker ma
chines, other games, four bars, 
a drive-in liquor store, and 
drunk Australians with cool 
accents.
It pretty much rocked the 
world out of any place you may 
find in Pittsburgh.
Today I saw some guys un
loading a truck with at least 
300 cases of beer outside ofthe 
liquor store.
I said to one ofthe guys, Wow, 
thats a lot of beer. He looked 
at me and said, Not on a hot 
day its not. Oh yeah  and 
nobody here drinks Tosters.
I leave you now, but I will do 
my best to keep you informed of i 
my adventures. For now, just 
keep in mind that its summer 
here and Ilive 15 minutes walk
ing from the beach.
Eric Salzman is living at 74. 
Perouse Rd., Randwick, NSW 
2031, Australia. His phone 
number is 011-61-2-398-6371.
CALL FOR 
APPLICATIONS
For majors, 
double majors, 
and minors 
in
Industrial Management
and
Economics
MARCH 10-17, 1995 
GSIA 139
BATES HILL!
2 & 3-Bedroom Apartments Available
Available immediately, and for 
Spring, Summer and Fall terms 
Modern luxury, short-term available, fitness center, 
reserved parking available, 24-hour maintenance 
Office Hours: 9 am - 5 pm 
Evening, weekends by appointment
Bates Hill Apartments 
3812 Bates St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Telephone: 361-4643
Managed by
QNDC Asset Management, Inc.
oppoRTMflnr
i

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  13 March 1995L3
CMU forgets national 
celebration of women
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
I began working on this ar
ticle with the hopes of writing 
about the activities taking place 
on CMUs campus in honor of 
National Womens History 
Month. However, after contact
ing the Womens Center and 
almost every office on campus, 
I have concluded that National 
Womens History Month does 
not have a great deal of impor
tance here. Virtually nothing is 
going on to celebrate the month, 
and no one I spoke to could tell 
me anything remotely signifi
cant about the few activities 
that are actually taking place 
at CMU.
Based on what I have seen on 
campus, I could briefly list what 
I know about the programs that 
are being held for the month. 
Last week, a musician per
formed in honor of National 
Womens History Month, and 
movies that deal with women 
are being shown in various lo
cations on campus throughout 
the remainder of the month.
There very well could be other 
things that are going on, but 
the problem is that each person 
I contacted didnt know any
thing.
In fact, many people had no 
idea that March is National 
Womens History Month.
Some women werent too 
bothered by the fact that CMU 
doesnt do anything to promote 
National Womens History 
Month. It doesnt really affect
me because I never really heard 
anything about it before, but if 
there was something that was 
going on that was of interest to 
me, I would definitely go and 
see what its about, said 
Racheal Nass, a freshman de
sign major.
The Universitys failure to cel
ebrate National Womens His
tory Month has invoked anger 
in many of CMUs women. Sofia 
Zuberi, a freshman industrial 
management major, said, It 
makes me angry. The school 
should do something about the 
month. There may not be a lot 
of women on campus, but the 
few who are here deserve the 
recognition.
Zuberi elaborated on her 
ideas about what could be done 
for the month: They should 
get a good speaker, a woman 
who is a good role model and 
who will talk about women 
based issues as they relate to 
the campus.
Andy Seymore, a sophomore 
biologyand psychology major, 
said, It sucks that the school 
does do not anything for Na
tional Womens History Month. 
The women here are very im
portant and something should 
be done to recognize their 
achievements.
Alan Shukairy, a sophomore 
chemical engineering major, 
added, They dont do anything 
about anything else like Black 
History Month or Martin 
Luther King Day, so why would 
they do anything about 
Womens History Month?
Catching up with drama department mascots
By SHANNON GffiNEY
Tartan Features Co-Editor
Like many CMU students, 
Leonard and Anna Mae Hinkes 
have a love for theater. Frequent
ing various dramatic perfor
mances around campus, many 
times for multiple shows, the two 
are unwavering in their theatric 
zeal.
They never miss a production, 
and make a point of sitting in the 
front row for every performance.
All this might not seem so ex
traordinary if the Hinkes were 
actually students, instead of an 
elderly couple who visit CMU 
daily to take in the drama 
departments productions, and 
read the newspapers at Hunt Li
brary.
The Hinkes live in Squirrel 
Hill, and commute to CMU daily. 
Their average day consists of get
ting on a bus, arriving at CMU, 
checking the drama board to see 
what shows are playing, seeing 
the show, and sometimes watch
ing a movie.
They have done this for six years 
now, and claim that they have 
never missed a theatric produc
tion in that time.
We started by going to the 
shows, and the head of the drama 
program, Don Marenelli, said 
youre our mascot, come when
ever you want, said Leonard.
The Hinkes have only strength
ened their rapport With the drama 
department since Marenellis in
vitation.
Weve seen a lot of kids come 
and go. We dont really get to 
know them [drama students] 
until theyre juniors, because 
thats when they really start performingin productions. Then they
leave when theyre seniors, said 
Leonard.
Although the couple does not 
keep in contact with drama stu
dents after graduation, they dotry to be aware of their progress, 
by reading entertainment publi
cations.
Well read magazines like Vathen the next day theyre on to 
another,said Leonard.
Although theater is now the 
focus of the Hinkes time, the 
couples lives were once very dif
ferent, and did not include either 
CMU or the drama department.
I used to be a secretary when I 
was younger, said Anna Mae,
Tartan File Photo
Drama's young-at-heart mascots, Leonard and Anna Mae Hinkes.
riety to try to see what theyre 
doing. One time we read that 
David Nerona, who graduated 
last year, was in a recent show in 
New York, said Leonard.
The two admire the extreme 
commitment that drama students 
make in order to remain at CMU, 
and to improve proficiency in their 
craft.
Theyre all real nice. ... Its 
always a pleasure to see them. 
You see them up on stage and 
they seem so different than they 
are in real life. Theyre all so 
dedicated, too. Theyre doing such 
hard work, and thats the way 
they wani it. The juniors, you 
know, they finish one play, and
uttering younger  thats the 
word, under her breath. He used 
to drive for a medical lab, she 
said, pointing to Leonard.
When questioned about the cir
cumstances of their first meet
ing, the two had a few choice 
words to offer:
I met her in 1954, said 
Leonard.
I was going with this fellow, 
and he said he had this blind 
date, and I said Id give it a try... 
said Anna Mae.
And here we are! said 
Leonard, beaming.
The two have lived in Pitts
burgh all their lives, except for a 
few years that Leonard lived in
Florida when he was ill as a child. 
Neither Leonard nor Anna Mae 
have any family.
Its just the two of us now, 
because both of our parents are 
dead, Leonard explained.
The two agree that, even though 
they are not as young as they 
once were, they never want to 
become old.
I try to think young... its bet
ter, said Leonard.
Whats old? I asked.
Not being alive so much, said 
Leonard.
You start looking through the 
obituaries. You never do that 
when youre young, said Anna 
Mae.
The Hinkes feel that one of the 
most basic ways that they can 
keep their spirits young is by in
teracting with the world, and with 
the students around them.
Santa Claus, the kids call me. 
I never had a beard in my life 
before three years agothe elec
tric shaver broke, and there it 
came, said Leonard.
The Hinkes also visit Hunt Li
brary, to read various publica
tions.
They can be seen there often 
reading their favorite newspa
per, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 
on the first or third floor.
The couple enjoys all that CMU 
community has to offer, in terms 
of our resources, and our stu
dents.
They hope to keep on enjoying 
these benefits, for years to come.
Students here are always nice 
and friendly.... They have a smile 
for you; theyre always glad to see 
you. They always have a good 
word for you and we always want 
to know what theyre doing and 
how its going, said Leonard.
Community literacy teaches students skills; tutors facts of inner-city life
By SAMEER KARIM
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Community Literacy Center, lo
cated in Pittsburghs North Side, works 
with inner-city high school students, all 
of whom are able to read and write, to 
show them that they have a voice in 
their community. The CLC tries to help 
these students realize that they have 
something to say and attempts to help 
them say it.
Tim Flower, a mentor at the CLC, 
said, The [high school] students look at 
things differently; [they] come to see 
themselves as having something to say 
and having an audience to say it to.
Through a collaborative effort by Joyce 
Baskins, Wayne Peck, and Linda Flower, 
a professor here at CMU, the Commu
nity Literacy Center was created six 
years ago. It began as a small organiza
tion which took students from the com
munity, paired them with college men
tors, and set them to writing.
The CLC soon evolved into the format 
"that it is at presently: students from 
various high schools are given the op
portunity to apply to the program when 
recruiters come to their campus. These 
students are interviewed, and if selected,
are paid a small stipend for their time.
Dan Zabell, a junior English major, 
says that many times, after the class is 
done for the day, [Students] will stay at 
the CLC to play basketball ... it keeps 
them off the streets and gives them 
something to do.
Many of these high 
school students are loosely 
affiliated with gangs and 
this provides a way for 
them to escape from their 
territorial bounds and 
write about subjects that 
interests them.
Zabell said, One of the 
rules is that once you walk 
in the door, all of the dif
ferences are left outside.
[The CLC] is known as 
neutral ground ... a sanc
tuary.
Rhetoric and the Writ
ing Process: Community Literacy (76- 
378) is a regular class which meets for 
three hours on Tuesdays and Thurs
days.
The beginning of the semester is spent 
in the classroom with Flower, who 
teaches CMU students the theoretical 
side of what they will soon apply at the
CLC. CMU students work with the 
high school students, or writers, for 
eight weeks before the community con
versation, which takes place just before 
each semester.
The community conversation gives the
Tartan File Photo
CMU mentors Josh Paul and Elenore Long tutor CLC writers.
writers a chance to have a direct impact 
on the community. This consists of a 
day in which the writers read their final 
products in front of an audience which 
usually includes the mayor and other 
leaders of the community.
For the CMU student, the end of the 
semester means a 10-page paper on
what they have gotten out of the pro
gram. Students help their writer to de
velop an idea that the writer would like 
to advocate.
Part of the students job is to play 
devils advocate to the writer, making 
sure that the writer sup
ports his or her argument 
rather than simply mak
ing empty statements.
Flower said, The knowl
edge base of what is going 
on rests with the teen ... 
[who] is the writer.
The CMU students job 
is not to tell the writer 
what to do or how to do it, 
but to be the editor, who 
is an aid to the writer and 
acts as the outside audi
ence, as Zabell said.
Zabell said, They [the 
high school students] are 
real people and they face stresses that 
are just as real or even more real than 
we have to face at CMU.
He added, This was brought to his 
attention when Mike, his writer, was 
shot in the leg. It was at that moment 
that I realized I had a larger stake in the 
issues at hand.
Zabells second writer, who is also 
named Mike, wrote a paper which chal
lenged conventional concepts about ex
pertise. In it, he asked, How can you be 
an expert in something if you have no 
experience in that type of situation? 
This came as a reaction to a gang ex
pert who said that if someone is wear
ing gang colors and is beaten up as a 
result of it, it is their fault for wearing 
those colors. While Mike was speaking 
at the community conversation, he broke 
from his story to talk about politics and 
ask how police can do anything in the 
community while financing air condi
tioning and basketball courts in jails.
Zabell said, When I saw my writer 
standing at the podium at the commu
nity conversation reading his article, 
talking directly to the powers that be, I 
was so proud of him and myself that I got 
to see this project get started and see it 
through to this end. It was then because 
I stopped thinking of the CLC as a class 
and started thinking of the CLC as a 
way to make a difference.
Next semester the class, Rhetoric and 
the Writing Process: Community Lit
eracy, will meet on Mondays and 
Wednesdays, and will.include both video 
and writing with students.
rePi LPeaPms wtlLo auPlo
DAUGHTERS, from page LI
This [involvement] ... could 
involve as little as 15 minutes 
spent escorting the girls from 
one program to another or by 
participating in one of the many 
20-minute presentations 
throughout the campus.... The 
conversations that would occur 
between the students and the 
girls would be interesting, said 
Smith.
Graham added, The students 
can be such a bridge, because 
they are not parents or middleschool kids, and the girls want 
to be like them. Theyre an indi
cation that theres more to life 
than there necessarily appears 
to be when youre 13.
The presentations are in
tended to be both educational 
and fun. The girls will get to 
learn how high resolution 3-D 
images are produced and used 
and what a lighting designer 
does.
Jane Bernstein will have stu
dents in her creative writing 
workshop write fast fiction and 
read it back to the girls.
Liz Winter, a Carnegie Mel
lon rowing coach, will be show
ing the girls a video and dis
cussing what a career in coach
ing is like.
We hope the girls will be 
able to see three different pre
sentations and experience 
some of the variety.... We want 
them to have fun and experi
ence themselves as important 
and special, said Graham.
When it comes down to it, 
empowerment is what it is all 
about.
The program is intended, ul
timately, to support girls dur
ing what is a difficult time of 
change and to aid their efforts 
in commandingtheir own lives 
and having an impact on the 
world around them.
The Ms. Foundation is ex
pecting more than 25 million 
people to participate this year, 
and Carnegie Mellon organiz
ers would appreciate support 
from students, faculty, and ad
ministration.
Students and faculty inter
ested in participating should 
send any questions, comments, 
suggestions, etc. ... to todtw@ 
triceratops.soar.cs.cmu.edu.
Musicians rock the Yard
By SHIRA FELDMAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Scotland Yard, the non-alco
holic pub which re-opened on cam
pus in January, has recently been 
a forum for students with musi
cal talent.
In the past two and a 
half months, several acts 
have performed there, 
both group and solo; any 
amateur musician is wel
come to take part.
Bands will come up and 
ask, can they play? said Sam 
Conley, managing assistant for 
ScotlandYard. Wedonthold 
auditions. We take every
one. As for the quality of the 
acts Conley said, People had 
a nice time.... Well, there were 
no boos!
Ian Downey, a freshman who 
recently performed at Scotland 
Yard, confirms the crowds toler
ant nature. I was nervous...but 
people came up afterward and 
told me they liked it a lot... the 
audience was really nice, he said.
He found the general atmo
sphere congenial, though a bit of 
improvisation was necessary: 
Downey used a microphone tied 
to a stick, propped up against a
chair. Still, he thinks its an 
easygoing place to start out. Will 
he do it again? Probably some
time. ... maybe.
Paul Tabachneck, a sophomore 
who sings and plays the guitar, 
also found Scotland Yard an 
agreeable place to perform. Its 
small, friendly, he said. How
ever, due to the size of the room, 
Its not the ideal place to blast.9 One drummer will up the bass 
^ so high its hard to hear. 
The acts there, I think, 
_ will be more acoustic 
than electric.
Tabachneck feels 
that learning mu
sicians would do 
well to start in 
ScotlandYard, 
though the job 
j doesnt pay; If 
youre lucky 
you get a free 
drink ... which is 
about average for a 
beginner. Its a good place to 
play, he said.
Anyone interested in perform
ing at Scotland Yard should con
tact Alison Russo, acting man
ager, at x8-2134. ScotlandYard 
encourages all participation. 
Were not picky, said Conley.
mtiwmmv m m mmm
somoMQRB- rrs not too lau to ioin our team
+mito m mm oi wo mwni m stimm +im m MRMD ?mm fis a won +scmmm m mum t
CONTACTTHE DEFT. OF MlUTAFr SCIENCE FOR MORE INFORMATION: 
STOP BY 2902 C. OF L. OR CALL 624-61 97 / 61 98

---------------------------------------------------

$500 REWARD!
/------------------------------------------------------------------
f Add 10 Buffalo 
! Wings with any
i Pizza order for
| $10.99
3 great flavors: barbecue, hot, 
and extra hot
| Coupon not valid with any other offer. Offer valid with fjP@E
coupon only. Valid at participating stores only. Prices may Q l
vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Our H drivers carry less than S20.00. Cash value 1/20e. 1995 Ik
Domino's Pizza, Inc. LJy|;
Recently the Department of Civil & Environmental 
Engineering discovered that parts of computing equipment 
were missing from Porter Hall 7E The parts are:
Nine, 16MB, 70-ns non-parity memory modules 
Two, 8MB, 70-ns non-parity memory modules 
Two, 1GB SCSI hard disk drives
All parts were in their 
original white and black packaging, with the words 
Options by IBM, Memory Upgrade on the front.
oltaeoap
Donna Marano at x8-2942 or Security at x8-2323
to return the parts and receive your reward.
No questions asked.
Sponsored by the Jewish University Center, The Steinhardt lewish Heritage Foundation, and Chabad House.
1 .
' *W 
\v)Cotv
e* I pd
?\ Any Two 
I Super Subs 
for $9.99
Coupon not valid with any other offer. Offer valid with 
coupon only. Valid at participating stores only. Prices may 
vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Our 
drivers carry less than S20.00. Cash value 1/20e. 1995 
Domino's Pizza, Inc.
n Sdppj cv gdNYkdG.n
<DI0W DOMINO'S PIZZA, INC, UMITEO TIME ONLY. PURCHASE REQUIRED. Off ER MAY VARY, PARTICIPATING STORES ONLY.
Call Us! 681-1700 Hours: Sunday-Thursday 11am-2am
Friday-Saturday 11 am-3am
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ - -.........- ...............- -----------------------------

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  13 March 1995L5
)OS Windows could remedy CMU facilities shortage
yTRICIA DAVIS
'artan Staffwriter
From what Ive heard, CMU is get
ting more donations from Apple than 
0[. I think there should be an equal 
umber of Macintosh and IBM. But, in 
lerms of user friendliness, Macintosh is 
the way to go, said senior engineer and 
;0niputing Services employee Victor 
fjgrbardez.
Jackie Biello, a junior history major,
5 that the small number of IBM com
pters that are on campus are in poor 
ondition.
Concerning the computer facilities on 
campus, she said, They suck. There 
hould be more IBM-compatible commters because they are more useful 
mce you get out of college.
The Director of GSIA Computing Ser
ies, Meena Lakhavani, said that for 
he last seven years she has been trying 
; more DOS Windows-based commters for the entire University. I feel 
w<c are more suitable for students 
ntering the corporate world.
Unlike the rest of the University, GSIA 
s invested more into Windows-based 
omputers. Their percentage of Winlows-based computers is much higher 
han the rest of the University.
The public clusters at GSIA, according
o Lakhavani, are 70 percent Windows1 and 30 percent Macintosh.
For the entire GSIA, 7 0 percent of the 
computers are Windows based, 20 per
cent are Macintoshes, and only 10 per
cent are UNIX.
Lakhavani is pleased with the large 
lumber of Windows-based computers 
ivailable in her school, but said, Forty 
lercent of them need to be upgraded 
cause they are very slow. As a result, 
he clusters with the most current sysems are always crowded.
Computers should be software driven. 
\nd there is more of a selection of soft
ware for IBM than Macintosh and
mx.
This is one reason she has requested 
years that the Computer Skills Workhop include DOS as an option. Let the
market determine what we need.
Mike Sperger, a freshman professional 
writing major, agrees. The software in 
the computer industry keeps getting 
more powerful, but CMU is not upgrad
ing the computers to match the power 
that computers and computer users need 
to make the most of the software. Macs 
can run programs like Pagemaker 5 and 
Word 6, but the programs run a lot
ter designated for chemical engineering 
students. Unfortunately, it closes early 
because of limited staff, he said.
Dr. Eleonore Long, post doctoral fel
low in the English Department, said 
that she experiences difficulties when 
she needs a Macintosh computer.
What bugs me is that there are classes 
in the clusters too often, and there is no
where else to work in Baker Hall. When
Most of the computers on campus are not the 
caliber that I would like out there, but we have 
a budget
 Tracey Futhey, director of User Services
slower than they should.
He added that he does not use IBM 
computers often, but said, The IBM 
computers Ive seen at CMU arent in 
great condition. In GSIA, students have 
the opportunity to choose a flexible train
ing program that includes Macintosh 
and DOS Windows.
Unix is not offered in- the training 
session. It is designated for research 
purposes.... And very few students pick 
Macintosh for their training session, 
said Lakhavani.
The Wharton School of Business at 
the University of Pennsylvania plans to 
remove all of its Macintosh computers 
from the clusters by August of 1995. 
Many people feel that Carnegie Mellon 
should do the same.
Dan Zabell, a junior English major, 
argues that the University needs more 
computers overall. I was in the Marga
ret Morrison cluster last night around 
1:30 in the morning and there were 
people waiting for computers. That sig
nifies a shortage to me. The demand is 
greater than the capacity.
Senior chemical engineering major 
Rick Gilmore rarely has a problem ac
cessing an IBM computer on campus.
I have access to IBM compatible com
puters because there is a computer clus
you go to the Porter Hall cluster, it is 
closed when it is supposed to be open. 
Then, youre stuck.
John Leong, acting vice-president of 
Computer Services, who personally owns 
a DOS Windows-based 
system, was unavailable 
for comment because he 
was out of town.
Tracy Futhey, director 
of User Services explained 
why Carnegie Mellon in
vests more into Macintosh 
and Unix than the DOS 
Windows-based personal 
computers.
Every year we look at 
the usage statistics in the 
public clusters and askthe 
faculty what software they 
will be using in their 
classes. We collect all the 
information and deter
mine the demand of the 
clusters. If more faculty 
wanted to use more PC 
programs, then the Uni
versity would buy more 
IBM computers.
Right now, Macintosh is 
used more on campus and 
there is a higher demand
from the students and faculty.
Futhey said, IBM use and demand 
has gone up in the past year and a half, 
and I have been watching it more. We 
bought more IBM computers last year 
and created the Cyert Hall cluster.
She admits that the condition of IBM, 
Macintosh, and UNIX computers needs 
to be improved, and she is eager to make 
the necessary hardware and software 
upgrades, but she has a limited budget 
to contend with.
Most of the computers on campus are 
not the caliber that I would like out 
there, but we have a budget. We know 
the clusters arent powerful enough in 
most cases and weve been highlighting 
this message to the administration.
Although the demand and use of all of 
the computers are increasing, the fi
nances have remained the same, 
Futhey said.
The obvious solution is for CMU to 
increase its budget for computers. But, 
students and faculty are part of the 
solution as well.
A few weeks ago, the MCS Deans 
office organized a meeting to discuss the 
students concerns about computers. To 
Futheys dismay, only a handful of stu
dents showed up.
I am eager to try to come to a solution 
and I would like to hear responses from 
the students, Futhey said.
Pomona Valero of Computing Services 
said, As for why there are so many more 
Macs than IBM PCs, there are a lot of 
factors taken into account. To name a 
couple, usage statistics and student, fac
ulty, [and] staff input.
Students and faculty hope more will 
be done to improve all aspects of the 
computer facilities on campus.
However, more finances are needed 
and more input from students is needed 
in order for this to happen.
Futhey is dedicated and concerned about 
improving the computer facilities on cam
pus and urges students to send any ques
tions, suggestions, concerns or comments 
to clusters+@a7idrew.cmu. edu.
Yuzo Watanabe/Tartan Photgrapher
CMU students work in the Hunt Apple Orchard. Like many clusters on campus, it contains only 
Macintosh computers.
LOOKING FOR AN APARTMENT?
E. S. MANAGEMENT currently has apartments available for Fall in both North 
Oakland and Shadyside areas. If you are looking for quality housing in a wellmaintained building, please give us a call.
795-5845
For Rent  For Rent  For Rent
NORTH OAKLAND
218-222 NORTH CRAIG STREET
1 Bedroom apartments (suitable for 2 people). Renovated, new windows, new kitchens, new bathrooms, central 
air, new appliances, buzz-in entryway, laundry in building, off-street parking available. Some available for May 
and some for the Fall. $525$550 per month + utilities.
4 BEDROOM APARTMENTS
Large renovated units, all the same amenities as above. $ 1,200 per month + utilities.
X APARTMENT 
 SHUTTLE
SHADYSIDE AREA
632 BELLEFONTEAND 5501 ELMER STREET
Beautifully renovated 2 Bedroom apartments, just 
rehab., all-new kitchens and bathrooms, including 
dishwashers & G/D, new windows, steel doors, central 
air, just one block from Walnut, laundry in building. 
$795 + utilities.
5500-5508 ELMER STREET
With same amenities as above, only bigger, with sun 
porches, working gas fireplace, hard wood floors, 
laundry in building. $995 + utilities.
5752 ELLSWORTH AVENUE 
HUGE!! (1500 sq. ft.) 3/4 Bedroom, 2 bath, newly 
renovated, central air, new kitchen, buzz-in entryway, 
laundry in building, formal dining room.
$1,200 +utilities.
HUGE 2/3 BEDROOM APARTMENTS
With same amenities as above. $895 + utilities.
MANY OTHER APARTMENTS AVAILABLE. CALL US WITH YOUR NEEDS. 795 5845

---------------------------------------------------

Calvin and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
What happened in Concord in 1775 ? 
/fe
LEis BE HoNESt. plLf6O 
QSKiNG ME aBouV CoNcoRd? 
I R&L1 oN +HE BUS RVER 
to FiNd W OWN HOUSE FRM 
HERE. CoNcoRd CoULd BE 
ON n6adCn6 MlfU ali- I tfoW. 
*lA%
AND WH<rt HaPpENE4 22o YEaRS 
a Go.?'3 I'M 3 kid. I doNt 
KnoW WUctfs Go\NG osj NoW.
I doMt HqVE q SHRtd FCoNt.En PoR qnY oF +HiS. 
iVs UopELESS. MiSS WoRMWocd, 
.L9141CCo
fhhr ehPPiLa 
mis is m,ybvpYbvNvkp zykgJ
pr. W. pxv Y..yv rxvbv pxvN YkpbdgyCv pxv jbCxF ,YAAjYk GgvjpxNvY.pvb7 Yk j zvr G-vjb.I j bjbv NYkp CdMH eP so rYAA cv 
rdbpx NYAAYdk. JCT gdAAjb.O O
kvvgAv.. pd .jHJ Y cdESyp 
zY,v CdMYv.I .vjAvg pxvN Yk jYbpYSxp MAj.pWC cjS.Imsw tlo uniS dp j Pcr dp uniCAd.vpI ryvbv pxv AYSxp jkg xyNYgYpH rdkp jzzvCp pxvYb 
MbvCYdy. MjSv. O
xdr rYAA pyv.v rvbvJ jyJcv bjbv jkg Cdykp WyS dy,jA,EjcAv Yz v,r pxv dpxvbJ :Yg Yk jNvbYCj SyH6. NdN x:. z rv CdMYv.8 pe pyb3r px1j jrjH
IF I HAD A C.OMP' 
IM SURE ID GET 
BETTER GRACES h 
MY BOOK REFRFD
Calvin and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
SOMETIMES AiL THAT 
FELINE DIGNITY IS JUST 
TOO MUCH TO KEEP UP.
yyt__
c
j ceR dz xvr CbjHdk.O kdr pxvH6bv jAA MdYkpHJ AYkvg yM Yk dbgvbI cbYSxp jkg MvbzvCpO J
.ddk pxvHAA cv j cykCx dz SbdykgFgCrkI bCykgvgI 
YkgY.pYkSyY.xjcAv .pyNM.I NY..YkS pxvYb rbkMMvb5 jkg 2 .NygSvg rYpx dpxvb CdAdb.J
f SOMETIMES L\FE SEEV^ 
V UNBEARftBLY TRAGIC.
'<^1
I NOTTCED SHE HADTi 
THINK ABOJT IT.
xvAAd8 Hv.J Yg y:v pd .Mvj: rYpx pxv CxYvz dz MdyCvJ I&&
HELLO, CHIEF? IS IT A LAW THAT
uLrt CLesC yfW1 QL EfQey fDJQyiDm 
SndS u/TaPS hSPFlA pHE MOM, LISTEN TO THIS!
Doonesbury
I PONT CARS IF-IT 5 THE UVAL OF THE MILLENNIUM  7U/5 SEQUES- \ TRATION THING '
BY GARRY TRUDEAU
IT'S UKB SEN50RY PEPRJ- VATON! IFEEL COMPLETE- IX CUT OFF FROM EVERYTHING THAT PEFINBS
UHAT'RB if NOT THAT, 3.9.- YOU TALK- i SHOPPING! /VS !NG ABOUT? f [ BEEN 63 PAYS!

---------------------------------------------------

SIIEHH EGEI I 
W3C3ESQ
EHEEEH BH0HI CD QBEJI 
OHR3 H0HH Bl H0ESE1 HfflEnommran nubili heeeeeih mm SSC3KIE9 ? 
HHEH HEBHEh HBC] EBE
01LLL1LO anEISH EJEJB BE] BEO EBB DIB
DOW!
1. Retained
2. Candy bar brand
3. Prune
'I. Tn tlio distance 
5. JavelinC. Toward the sunrise
7. Good feature
8. Doubled letters in
the word ferret
9. Display
10. Do drugs
11. Having windows 
16. Greek letters 
20. Hander
22. Generato pus
24. Keyed instruments
25. Mistake
26. Chicken___King
27. Apple He descendent
31. "Cheers" barkeep
32. Sugar suffix
33. bert Bobbsey's sis 35. Beyond the hill
38. Rewritten39. Will o' the ____
40. Pleased
41. Nephew's sibling
42. Deliberate fire
43. Bet
46. Nabisco cookie47. TV, in England
48. Environs49. Drug addict
51. Trinltrotolulene 53. Stir fry apparatus
1. Katherine, for short 
5. Body of water 
8. PDQ
12. Architect Saarinen13. Dad's
14. Singer Maclntire15. King's daughter
17. Shock
18. Halo cat
19. Despising one
21. Utilize
22. Douglas, e.g.23. Outperformed
25. Tennis sot subsets
28. Ninja blade weapon
29. Unfortunately
30. Build with stones
36. US space program
37. Adam's mate
39. Ladles
40. Trapped
43. Brother's sib
4. Broadcast
45. Revolts
47. Greek letter
50. Examination
52. Small game hunters
54. Class in finance
(abbr.)
55. Yikes!
56. Windward
57. Misshape by force58. Female deer
59. Approach
MAYBE IF AIE GO 
FASTER, ITI . 
FLY OFF! ((^4
THERE'S A FLY STUCK ON 01//? MNb S/HE Lb A
f THIS OHE BUDDY! 
\jrmS2/9j6j AND THIS FLY THAT
szzfflkOBsmm
FITTMYV/EU:
L THERE! MAYBE FEU SUERVES U/LL 
VTHE THICK!
Nooooooa!Moooowa
Vhats a Wendell? by Matt Goldbergby Mark Kantrowitz
In a laddergram, the object is to transform the word on the top rung into the word on the bottom rung in the least number of steps. During each step you must replace one letter in the previous word so that a new word is formed, but without changing the positions of the other letters. For example, we can change LEAD into GOLD in just three steps: LEAD, LOAD, GOAD, GOLD.
Wendy, X 
re<\l nice time c?ur date, tonight. 
VThcxnksso much.
W/MPED I OUT
SHI35b$ht Q 1994 
b3 Ma5k Kant5Hwbtz. 
All 5b$hts 5ese5ved.
r HH.C+J oil.
Ife -TMAT rfM? 
u&iaj^hvvai
Vig lenht 
WALLCT 
oivr1.
UU, i WAoe- se
wug JCbhmOjN e wEd oPbuga f-AT. ROUPD, Am?
r 6(ue IT -V>
we STT.M6MT, 
MAW, 'HIS
MtftP
^60! Neu fis,Le1 iW6S 
HPs Hi
I It'S A 1 
Lodb 
btrtK to 
Hou.5e
TeHe,.
"luK. |THitS * 6K, 
.,9

---------------------------------------------------

Summer Study in Southern France: Aix-en-Provence/Avignon,June 12-July21, 1995
Sponsored by the Modern Languages Program.
Earn Carnegie Mellon credit for summer study in southern France.
$3,350 fee includes:
 full CMU tuition for 18 units of credit
 room and most meals with French families
 excursions (Museums, Provence and the French Riviera)
 health insurance
Fee does not include air travel between France and the U.S. However, prearranged travel packages from New
York or Chicago are available to Aix/Avignon.
Two study options are available, depending on student background, preparation and goals:
I. Aix-en-Provence: French Language and European Studies
Taught in French
Elementary and Intermediate French 
Introduction to French literature 
Comedy in French Theater
Taught in English 
International Relations 
Introduction to European Art 
The Nineteenth Century and Impressionism 
Introduction to European Music 
International Business
Attend Aixs Music And Opera Festival
II. Avignon: French Language and Literature
Taught in French
Advanced French: Spoken Language, Grammar and Stylistics, Composition
Twentieth-Century French literature
Contemporary France
Art History: The Art of Provence
Attend Avignons Drama Festival
Financial Aid Available
INFORMATION SESSION
Modern Languages office, Baker Hall 160 
Wednesday March 15, 4-5 pm
For more information call Modern Languages at X8-5669 
or contact Professor Michael West at x8-8957
992 Jews, 3 Opinions..
So how come50,000Jews agree on thisf
niMEWARN
The world's mostpopular Jewish adult education seminar.
DISCOVERY is a powerful resporlse to spiraling rates of apathy and alienation from Judaism. 
It is a world renowned program of lectures and discussion groups that present a logical and 
scientific approach to basic Jewish questions.
DISCOVERY presenters include: physicists, mathematicians, attorneys, doctors, 
psychologists, professors and yes rabbis too. They will deal with issues such as:
/Creation-the big bang or six days
/
/
How can a hook that is 3500 years old still be relevant?.
Can there be a rational basis for the beliefs of Judaism
?
Please join us at the William Pitt Union on Sunday March 26th from 11:30 to 6:00 PM 
Sponsored by the Jewish University Center - Hillel for more information call 621-8875
Cost: S20.00 (Students - $6.00)
Fee includes all lectures, meal and refreshments.
Name: _______[__________;_____
Address:
Telephone: _________________________
Please mail to: JUC-Hillel
4551 Forbes Ave, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Checks payable to: Aish HaTorah -Discovery
Seating is limited.
Ufaom (Draw 95
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&
HOW TO KEEP PEOPLES 
HANDS OFF YOUR MONEY.
 Carry only enough cash to last the day.
Anyone who tries to borrow your last five spot 
isn't a friend, anyway.
d Label your spare-change jar beetle farm.
Then, put your beetle farm in a jar labeled 
spare change."
ft Mark up every space on checks.
Don't leave room for someone to fill in their 
name and extra zeros.
& Keep your wallet In your front pocket.
It discourages pickpockets. So does wearing 
really tight pants.
6 Put your picture on your credit card.
A Citibank Photocard is tough for anyone else
to use, unless they look just like you.
 1995 Citibank (South Dakota), N A
.Room Selection
Current JuniorsMarch 13
Current SophomoresMarch 14
Current First-year StudentsMarch 15, 16
All events will take place in the .
West Wing Ree Room
Students must bring:
1) their $100 Housing deposit receipt from the Cashiers Office
2) their CMU Student ID
Refer to the Housing Offices Room Reservation Process 
brochure and the bboard org.housing.room-draw for a 
complete listing of times 
or call the housing office at x8-2139.

---------------------------------------------------

[volume 89, Issue 19The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania13 March 1995
Film displays kings Madness
By DAWN WALLHAUSEN
Tartan Staffwriter 
V RICHARD S. LUBELL
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Movie: The Madness of King George 
Starring: Nigel Hawthorne, Helen Mirren
Yes folks, I [Dawn] am reviewing yet another costume 
drama. This time, I dragged along a cohort[Richard] to help
me.
Well, the title says it all. The Madness of King George is all 
about the madness of King George.
The story is historically based, although one can never be 
quite certain how much of these films is accurate. It presents 
an account of the life of Englands King George III. The movie 
never tells you. Anyway, he was King during the American 
Revolution and the War of 1812.
The real King George was known for being a bit eccentric. 
Nigel Hawthorne did a great job of presenting him that way. 
The gradual process of Georges mental deterioration his
backwards progression from merely odd to totally nuts  was 
also eloquently depicted by Hawthorne.
As to Georges eccentricity, he had a habit of using language 
somewhat unbefitting of a monarch. He liked to say things like 
What, what? after every sentence, as the film shows it. He 
had 15 children by his wife Charlotte. Unlike most royals of his 
time, (in fact, unlike most royals today) George remained 
faithful to Charlotte throughout their married life. Helen 
Mirren, who plays the queen, and Hawthorne, are great 
together. They have a subtle chemistry which conveys the love 
of this husband and wife tenderly and beautifully.
Things start to get strange at the palace when King George 
takes off for a ride in the country and talks to a pig farmer and 
his pigs. As his conditionwhich causes his urine to turn blue 
 worsens, he does more and more wildly inappropriate 
things. He wakes in the middle of the night, makes his 
attendants rise with him, and takes them on a run through a 
field in their night clothes. He curses almost constantly, telling 
people to push off. At one point, when his madness peaks, he 
huddles against a wall outside of the castle defecating and 
Please see GEORGE, page L13
CFA provides weekly free theatre
Spunk entertains
THE STUDIO LINE
By Daniella J. Topol 
& Leigh Silverman
Too often, the cries of boredom are 
echoed throughout this campus. Lets 
face it, the lives of students are not all 
that entertaining, since the bulk of the 
time is taken up by studies, and what 
isnt swallowed in academics is shrouded 
in costly tabs. Even a movie costs six 
dollars, and the average play admission 
outside of CMlTs Kresge Theatre starts 
at about 10 bucks!
But, fret not, Carnegie Mellon stu
dents, for theres a source of entertain
ment waiting right in your backyard! 
Well, CFAs backyard anyway. Yes, 
friends and neighbors, we speak of the 
humble Studio Theatre, the brick cube 
which cowers between CFA and Posner 
Hall, praying for recognition against all 
hope.
What people dont see about this build
ing is that on just about any Thursday, 
Friday, or Saturday, one can find escape 
from academic hell in the form of a new 
production. And heres the true clincher: 
every performance is absolutely free.
Unfortunately, these productions usuplay to small audiences, mostly conin CFA, who come to see
their peers in action. This, is probably 
due to the fact that since the plays are all 
free, theres no expense budget for ad
vertising.
The chief form of publicity for these 
plays comes in the form of email posts on 
the Drama bboards, which arent sub
scribed to by general audiences, so a lot 
of people just dont know about it. The 
fact is, these productions are open to the 
entire campus community; anyone is 
welcome to come and enjoy!
The Studio Theatre is generally the 
venue at which the junior dramats cut 
their teeth for their senior year, when 
they hope to shine on the Kresge stage 
before heading out to pursue their pro
fessional careers, but every so often, 
because of the bulk of productions, one 
can catch a senior or sophomore in the 
mix, as is the case this week.
The plays are usually directed by ei
ther seniors, or first- or second-year 
graduate students.
This week, the Studio Theatre is hav
ing an atypical lineup of three separate 
one-acts, directed by three different firstyear grad students. Addingto the unique
ness of this weeks lineup is the presence 
in each play of a sophomore dramat, 
giving audiences a chance to see the 
actors that will soon grace the Studio 
Theatre with their presence a year in 
advance.
The first of these plays, Harold Pinters 
The Dumb Waiter, is set in a dingy 
London flat in the early 60s where two 
dim-witted hitmen are waiting for a hit 
order. Sophomore actor Mark 
Englehardt remarks that the rehearsal
process has been fun and interesting, 
filled with collaboration. The play is 
directed by Jeffrey Pressman.
Next up, Paul Zablocki directs Howard 
Brentons The Saliva Milkshake. The 
play centers around Martin, a British 
man who is tom between helping his 
criminal friend or upholding his reputa
tion and the law.
We learn that you cant be a middle
man. You have to choose a side, no mat
ter what the consequences are, says 
sophomore actor Nathan Wind.
Ironically, the play that ends the 
evening is entitled Requiem, written by 
Leonid Andreyev and directed by Michael 
Beh. Exploring the theme of alienation, 
this symbolic play celebrates the death 
of theatre as a specter arrives to haunt a 
theatre manager and brings about her 
process of self-analysis. Beh says, the 
play is about the loss of humanity in this 
alien world.
Normally, the plays run on Thursday, 
Friday, and Saturday nights at 8 pm. 
This week, however, the show will occur 
on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 
March 15-17, at 8 pm, because of Spring 
Break.
Thats the lineup for this week; in 
upcoming issues of the Tartan, well be 
giving a preview of that weeks shows, 
along with more insight from members 
of the casts and crews. We hope to see 
some new people there this week, and 
that theyll become familiar faces at the 
Studio Theatre!
Daniella J. Topol andLeigh Silverman 
are both junior directing majors.
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Play: Spunk
Place: City Theatre Review
There are many problems inherent in 
turning a novel into a movie or play. 
From the use of only dialogue to the 
extreme details found in most fiction, a 
good writer is apt to find he or she is in 
a bind: should they stay with the con
stricting nature of the prose or blaze 
new paths. City Theatres Spunk, by 
George C. Wolfe, has done the latter.
Based on Zora Neale Hurstons short 
stories and 
novels, Spunk 
is a series of 
musical and 
spoken stories 
dealing with 
pimping, infi
delity, and 
snakes, not in 
that order.
However, dont 
let the negative 
topic-matter 
steer you away.
Spunk, despite 
some minor 
problems, is a 
very good 
show.
The first and 
most positive aspect of the show is the 
casting ofBoDiddley Jr. as Guitar Man. 
Bo Diddley Jr. is, strangely enough, Bo 
Diddleys son and is 
a wonderful singer 
and guitarist. His 
gruff voice and pow
erful acoustic gui
tar work add a driv
ing beat to the sto
ries of two pimps 
arguing on the 
street, of a woman 
and her violent hus
band, and the tale 
of gilt coins that 
nearly br e ak a m arriage.
The stage is a 
sparse and nicely 
built mock-up of an 
old Florida shack, 
and the creative 
lighting effects by 
CMU professor Tim Saternow add a 
great amount of fanfare to the produc
tion.
With interesting direction by Thomas 
W. Jones II, the play is a romp through
Tom Jefferson
Etta Cox and Bo Diddley Jr. costar in City 
Theatres production of Spunk, adapted for 
stage from the works of Nora Zeale Hurston.
the back pages of Hurstons creative 
ideas.
Also starring Etta Cox, a City The
atre regular, this work features a 
deep and enjoyable view of the 
Harlem Rennaisance through the 
eyes of Zora Neale Hurston, a woman 
famous for her portrayals of her 
hometown, Eatonville, Florida, in 
Their Eyes are Watching God and 
Mules and Men.
The stories are full of wonderfully 
opulent imagery, and the actors por
tray this extremely well. From their 
work with a life-sized puppet to their 
dance and 
singing 
numbers, 
the cast 
members 
bring a vital
ity and 
strength the 
play that 
make it a 
wonderful 
thing to 
watch.
The only 
negative as
pect of the 
play is the 
lack of depth 
that Wolfes 
work ex
udes. Although he has turned a se
ries of wonderful stories into a series 
of wonderful plays, some of the power 
of Hurstons 
proseislostin 
the fastpaced lines 
and songs. 
However, the 
play still 
shines as an 
entertaining 
and exciting 
part of City 
Theatres 
1995 season.
Spunk will 
be playing at 
City Theatre 
in the Southside, until 
March 19. 
t&Ann lanKsiey Bus-dependent students can reach it by taking 
the 54C from Forbes and Bellefield 
Avenues in Oakland. For more infor
mation on ticket prices and show 
times, call City Theatre at 431 -CITY.
comic book company delivers what hype promises
COMIC BOOK 
CHRONICLES
By Jason Andracki
I believe it was Public Enemy 
that said a few years back, Dont 
believe the hype. As I hate to 
igree with those modern-day 
Philosophers Chuck D and Flava 
(not Flavor mind you) Flay, you 
can and should believe the hype
Gaiman, father of the cult 
Sandman, created Mr. 
Teknos premier title.
Tekno Comics (brought to 
by the same folks who creSci-Fi Channel). Months
before the companys first title 
hit the stands they launched a 
media campaign (not just comics 
media, were talking Good Morn
ing America, The Wall Street 
Journal), touting their list of all 
star creators, like Neil Gaiman 
(Sandman), Leonard Nimoy 
(Spock), and Gene Roddenberry 
(Star Trek creator) to name a few. 
Hey, theyre even on the 
NASDAQ under BIGE for you 
GSIA types. Over the sum
mer, I signed up for the Tekno 
Comics mailing list and it 
seemed every week some form 
of Tekno propaganda was hit
ting my mail box. They sent 
out clippings of every instance 
in which Tekno was mentioned 
plus some neat freebies like a 
folders, some cards, and 
other trinkets.
Then it was time to 
put their money 
where their month 
was. Now the first 
quarter has 
passed for Tek
no and from the 
looks of the 
first four issues 
of their first 
three titles they 
are improving stead-ily.
Neil Gaimans Mr.
Hero
This is clearly the pre
mier title from Tekno, even 
though Gaiman is really only 
the creator of Mr. Hero and not 
the regular writer, but James 
Vance fills his boots quite nicely.
This is the tale of a steam power 
robot (not named Dante) who is 
brought back to life by a young 
lady. Naturally Gaiman made the 
robot British so that adds the
rather lighthearted book. If forced 
to compare it to something, Id 
say Mr. Hero 
reminds me 
of the early 
days of Ex
calibur.
Mr. Hero is 
also the place 
to find the 
Teknophage 
prior to 
his own 
series.
Anoth
er Gai
man cre
ation, the 
Tekno
phage
splits it time between what hap- top- notch with an equal focus on
A brainchild of Leonard Nimoy 
and Isaac Asimov, Primortals 
blends action and intrigue well.
will apparently be 
the m ain villain of 
the Tekno uni
verse and will 
be the link to the 
rest of the books.
The Teknophage
pens on earth when a signal from 
outer space is re
ceived at the SETI 
Institute and whats 
going on with the 
aliens that sent the 
message.
This book is the 
perfect mixture of 
good old action 
and a little sus
pense. A first 
rate job is done 
by Christopher 
Mills (scripter), 
Ron Randall 
(penciller), and 
Pittsburgh Art 
Institutes own 
Mike Barreiro 
(inker).
Gene Rod
denberry  s 
Lost Universe 
Although beginning with a 
rocky start, Lost Universe has 
straighten up to fit it with its 
fellow Tekno books. My main 
complaint was it featured poor
the writing and the art which is 
something you dont find too of
ten anymore. The overall appear
ances of the books are impres
sive. Nice, thick glossy paper and 
crisp computer- separated colors 
complete the package for the ex
tremely reasonable price of $1.95.
Sorry, Chuck and Flava, you
mu tnieriamment 
Despite a shaky opening, Gene 
Roddenberry's Lost Universe has 
achieved par with the other Tekno
BIG Entertainment
Rob Liefeld-esque (as if there 
pages feature' is any other kind) art in the
great art by Bryan first two issues. I couldnt
stand all those gritting teeth and have to believe the hype, 
twisted faces. However with the 
new inkers in #2, Aaron 
McClennan and Frank Percy,
Mike Harris pencils take on their 
own image (pun inten-ded). Ron 
Fontier is doing a wonderful job 
best. Once again Nimoy is only with the plot and has already game pieces. Theyre really fun
the creator, along with the leg- made a couple of startling twists, and the cards you win arent too
endary Isaac Asimov. This book Overall, the three books are shabby either. /
Talbot (A Tale of One 
Bad Rat - highly recom
mended).
Leonard Nimoys Pri
mortals
Primortals is classic yet be
lievable science-fiction at its
Jason Andracki is a Sophomore 
professional writing major. If you 
dont buy any of these Tekno Com
ics for the great stories or art at 
least buy them for the scratch-off

---------------------------------------------------

SUITE LOCATION
YOUR ELEGANTLY FURNISHED ONE OR TWO BEDROOM APART
MENT SUITE INCLUDES AN EQUIPPED KITCHEN, FLUFFY LINENS, 
TV, VCR CABLE MOVIES, FREE LOCAL PHONE SERVICE, AND 
RESERVED PARKING.
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT 5405 FIFTH AVENUE, SHADYSIDE 
2 BLOCKS FROM WALNUT STREET'S 145 FASHIONABLE SHOPS AND 
12 DELICIOUS RESTAURANTS. 1 MILE TO CMU/PITT/HOSPITALS
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN A HOTEL ROOM
5405 FIFTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15232 
PHONE: 441-4444
INTERNET: htttp://tig.com/Pittsburgh/
Voted the#1
Ddtwinf' fkriect Pizza,-
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd.
near North Craig
682-7272
Carryout Special
One 14 Large One Topping
$ej 99
Pizza in Pittsburgh 
by the Post Gazette,
Our competitors 
pizza was com
pared to card
board with sauce."
Try the rest, buy 
the best!
PAPA JOHNS VALUE MENU
r Party SpeciaC
10 Small14 Large16 Extra Large
Cheese Pizza4.956.959.95
One Topping5.657.9510.95
Two Topping6.358.9511.95
Three Topping7.059.9512.95
FourTopping7.7510.9513.95
Five Topping8.4511.9514.95
Garden Special 7.25 10.25
Mushrooms, Onion, Green Pepper, & Black Olives
The Works8.4511.95
13.25
14.95
Pepperoni, Ham, Sausage, Mushrooms, Onion, Green Peppers, & Black Olives
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Party Special,,
TOPPINGS
Ham
Pepperoni 
Sausage 
Ground Beef 
Bacon 
Anchovies 
Extra Cheese 
Mushrooms 
Onions 
Black Olives 
Green Olives 
Green Peppers 
Jalapeno Peppers
EXTRAS
Breadsticks....................................... 1.79
Delicious oven-baked sticks with plenty 
of Papa Johns Special Galic Sauce &
Nacho Cheese Sauce
Extras.......................................................28
Extra Pepperoncini, Special Galic 
Sauce, Nacho Green Sauce
Cheesesticks.................................... 3.20
A Chicago-cut taste treat smothered in 
cheese & Special Garlic Sauce
Drinks.......................................................61
12 oz. can of Coca-Cola classic,
Spritd or diet Cokd
Prices do not include sales tax
9-

One 14" Large with The Works* 
& One 14" Large Two Toppings
s13:95
One 
14" Large 
One Topping 
OR 
Two 
14 Large 
One Topping
$6.98,.
411.98
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Perfect Brunch or 
Late Night Munch
One 10" Pizza One Topping & 
Two Cans of Coca-Cola classic
*5:99
+tax
(Daily 11am-4pm, 9pm-close) 
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
HOW TO GET STUFF CHEAPER.
(WITHOUT POSING AS A SENIOR CITIZEN.)
Check expiration dates. 
eUC; YT u!Go aeu|a $m) !esePPe0I u!Go 
LPe$m$l9 e| omlt !e)m9J
Look for product flaws.
j o3Pm!3w eP m suoou|a $*!!e| stm|o 
$mPamu| omVu|ao m! !wt Ptauo!tPJ
Go generic.
.mst mo |mst $Pm|)oI 0u!we*! !wt 
3mP!ee| smo3e!oJ
Buy in bulk with friends.
Ce||t3! !wt ltT!eVtP $eRto !e smit 
m w*sm| xm$l!PmulJn
Use a Citibank Classic card.
YT 9e* Tu|) e*! 9e* )u)|G! Lm9 !wt le0to! 
LPu3tI Cu!u$m|i MPu3t MPe!t3!ue| 3m| Lm9 
9e* $m3i *L !e 4 hDJi
Naturally, conditions and exclusions apply. Learn all 
about it when you become a cardmember.
CiTiBAN(&
WE RE LOOKING OUT FOR YOU.'
To apply, call I-800-CITIBANK.
PRINCIPLES of SOUND RETIREMENT INVESTING
PAIN.
;JJJJJJJ
JJJ
F
or fast relief from the nagging ache ol taxes, we 
recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are taxdeferred annuities designed to help build additional 
assets money that can help make the difference 
between living and living well after your working years 
are over.
Contributions to your SRAs are deducted from 
your salary on a pre-tax basis. That lowers your 
current taxable income, so you start saving on taxes 
right away. Whats more, any earnings on your SRAs 
are also tax-delerred until you receive them as income. 
That can make a big difference in how painlulyour tax 
bill is every 3'ear.
j Ensuring the future
As the nation's largest retirement system, we offer 
a wide range of allocation choicesfrom TIAA's 
traditional annuity, with its guarantees of principal 
and interest, to the seven diversified investment 
accounts of CREF's variable annuity. What's more, 
our expenses are very' low, which means more of 
your money goes toward improving your future 
financial health.
To find out more, call our planning specialists at 
1 800 842-2888. We'll send you a complete SRA 
information kit, plus a free slide-calculator that shows 
you how much SRAs can lower your taxes.
Call todayit couldnt hurt.
for those who shape it.s*
Shtiu)iin) ct'Piuir'.i IiiXurince Ruling Analyi', 1994: Lipper Analytical Services, Inc., Lipper-Director/Analyticall)al<i, 1994 (Quarterly). CREF 
certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. For more complete information, including charges and 
expenses, call 1 800-842-2733, ext. 5509 for a CREF prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money.
 1995 Teachers Insurance andAnnuity Awciation /College Retirement Equities Fund.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  13 March 1995in
Heavenly Creatures shocks, thrills
By APRIL C. MOATE
Tartan Staffwriter
Nominated for an Academy Award, 
fieavenly Creatures is a fact-based film 
from writer-director Peter J ackson (Dead, 
(dive). It is the story of Pauline Parker 
(Melanie Lynskey), a 15-year-old girl 
who bludgeons her mother to death with 
brick, aided by her best friend, Juliet 
Hulme (Kate Winslet).
While the subject matter may be 
enough to deter some audiences, anyone 
missing this film will be missing one of 
the most uniquely wonderful and shockig films of the year.
The director opens with a sedate docu
mentary clip detailing the city of 
Christchurch, where the actual events 
took place. He then cuts to a stunning 
scene in which the two girls are running 
way from the murder theyve just com
mitted, screaming and covered in blood. 
The contrast of these two sets of images, 
and the intensity of the second clip, 
makes for one of the most intense and 
powerful film scenes I have ever wit
nessed. The anguish in their screams at 
the realization of the horror of what 
theyve just done sets the tone for the 
rest of the movie. This is just a sample of 
the terrific performances of Lynskey and 
Winslet.
The rest of the movie is delivered in 
flashback, guided by voice-overs from 
Paulines diary. The two girls meet in 
the Christchurch Girls High School and 
soon become an odd pair of best friends.
Juliet is beautiful, outspoken, and so
cially refined, while Pauline is sallow
skinned, introverted, and unpolished. 
Despite these differences, the two share 
a love of romance and fantasy. This bond 
brings them together as soul mates and 
their relationship grows stronger as they 
write about Borovnia, an imaginary 
kingdom they create together.
What initially appears to be a simple, 
harmless relationship soon becomes bi
zarre and nearly obsessive as the two 
girls separate themselves from the rest 
of the people around them.
Their families become concerned that 
their relationship is unwholesome, ap
prehensively and awkwardly suggest
ing notions of homosexuality. As the 
families take small steps towards sepa
rating the girls, Pauline eventually de
cides to take action against her mother, 
whom she feels is the sole hindrance of 
her friendship with Juliet.
What results from the brilliant perfor
mances, unique direction by Jackson, 
and dark undertones of obsession and 
fantasy is a riveting masterpiece. It is 
not, however, a film that will leave you 
feeling cheery and lighthearted. Instead, 
the feeling that results is comparable to 
being hit by a truck.
While Juliet is animated and full of 
life, her dark side is brought out through 
her relationship with Pauline, and both 
characters become loathsome by the end 
of the movie. Beautiful scenes of imagi
nary lands and joyous events are inter
spersed with dark fantasies of sexual
perversity and violent deaths. Their re
lationship becomes so bizarre and in
tense that it is difficult to identify with, 
yet somehow believable. Understand
ing their bond is not so difficult; despite 
their different personalities, the two 
seem to fit together like puzzle pieces, 
especially through their shared fanta
sies of Borovnia. The difficulty lies in 
trying to understand their unfailing loy
alty, obsession with each other, and guilt
less attitudes about having brutally mur
dered Paulines mother.
Her mother, played by Sarah Peirse, 
is a woman who is loving and concerned 
for her daughters welfare. The hostility 
and hatred that Pauline develops in
vokes such a sense of pity for the help
less mother that it makes the final act 
seem all that much more horrifying. 
Peirses performance in this scene is a 
heartbreaking summation of everything 
that has gone wrong between her and 
her daughter; her cries of agony are not 
only reflective of physical pain, but 
poignantly convey her emotional pain at 
being betrayed and abandoned by her 
own flesh and blood.
The movie ends with some haunting 
lastwords explainingthe ensuing events 
that took place for Juliet and Pauline in 
real life. The release of this film has 
forced the re al Juliet to come out of s emihiding. She has been revealed as best
selling mystery writer Anne Perry. 
Pauline has not been heard of since their 
release in 1959, and the two have never 
reunited.
July rates mediocre
By JASON ANDRACKI
Tartan Staffwriter
Group: July
Album: Love Apocalypse
When I listened to Julys new al
bum, LoveApocalypse, one 
word kept 
popping up in 
my mind: me
diocrity. I 
dont believe I 
have ever 
heard a more 
average band 
in my life. Its 
not that their 
pseudo-goth 
guitar rock is 
not original, 
its just that 
there isnt 
anything to 
make them stick out in your mind 
from the other dime-a-dozen alterna
tive bands that are everywhere.
Actually the most impressive thing 
about this band is the liner notes from 
the cassette. Although that might 
sound sarcastic, it isnt. It really is an 
especially professional-looking insert 
for a local indie band. The music, on 
the other hand, is not as impressive. 
July probably would at least be a little 
more listenable with better producDespite a slick package, the content of Julys 
third effort, Love Apocalypse, doesnt measure 
up past mediocrity.
tion. The vocals are either lost in the 
music and samples (which isnt neces
sarily a bad tiling), or they overpower 
the music. From this extremely me
diocre album, The Tide is probably 
the closest thing to a standout song.
The only 
thing that 
keeps from 
being a truly 
good song is 
the overbear
ing chorus. 
The first sin
gle from their 
third release 
is slated to be 
Alaska.
The only 
redeeming 
quality ofthis 
song is that it 
mentions dol
phins and, 
hey, dolphins are cool.I wouldnt ex
actly recommend July to anyone (well 
maybe if I dont particularly care for 
the person), but I wouldnt completely 
dismiss them either.
It would be interesting to hear them 
live, since they seem like a band that 
sounds better performing, plus you 
wouldnt have to put up with the ama
teurish production.
If were doing that rating thing, I 
give it a 11/2 out of 4.
unip Marz
All-you-can-eat buffet places Chinese heaven in chopsticks reach
ANCIENT CHINESE 
SECRETS
By Ido Ben-Shachar 
and Aaron Weisberg
Ask yourself this question: 
What is the meaning of life? The 
answer is simple: FREE Chinese 
food! No, this isnt another con
test. We just wanted to point out 
that the only thing better than 
Chinese food is FREE Chinese 
food.
Thus, we began a journey sev
eral months ago to try and fulfill 
our purpose in life. We consid
ered organized crime as a means 
acquiring funding for our fe
tish, but weve never been too 
organized to begin with (case in 
point: our rooms).
We then considered going 
through Student Senate. By creg a club known as the Edu
cate people on American Chinese 
food club, we would askfor funds 
to be used to educate the Carnegie
Mellon community. Our chief 
learning tool would be a T-shirt. 
The catch is, wed sell the T-shirt 
at cost to ourselves, and use the 
money from T-shirt sales to 
purchase Chinese food. Unfortu
nately, when we approached the 
Student Senate chair about our 
idea, he crushed it like a small 
bunny rabbit, the evil man that 
he is. In fact, when we approached 
The Tartan about this column a 
few months ago, we had hoped 
they would defray some of our
costs.  But unfortunately, ____
this did not happen. But we 
keep writing our column in 
the hopes that some Chi
nese restaurant out there 
will pick us up as 
spokespeople for their P.R. 
department.
The best way, however, to get 
free Chinese food is to visit home, 
and do the family meal thing. 
The well-spent time catching up 
with your parents is doubly won
derful since it can be done over 
egg-rolls. Your parents will love 
the fact that you visit them, and 
you wont even mind seeing Aunt 
Matilda because you will be en
grossed in FREE Chinese food!
This weekend, we went home 
to Cleveland for Idos birthday
(Yes, we went to Cleveland on 
PURPOSE. Strange, isnt it?). Let 
us tell you how much Chinese 
food we ate:
Friday, 6:32 pm: China Gate. 
Delicious Chinese food, known 
for its orange beef in several in
ternational circles.
Saturday, 3:14 am: Wanted 
to visit China Gate again, but it 
was closed.
Saturday, 6:01 pm: Peking 
Gourmet. Fabulous Chinese food 
and atmosphere, known for their
So, for an hour and a half, we 
ate. That Is, until the hostess 
began to give us the evil eye.
General Tsos (not to mention Ido 
has a crush on one of the wait
resses).
Saturday, 7:01 pm: Hungry 
for Peking Gourmet again. Par
ents werent buying this time. 
Bummer.
Sunday, 12:45 pm: Leftovers 
at the Weisberg residence. All 
rejoice as the microwave does its 
magic.
Monday, 11:10 am: As we are
getting ready to travel back to
Pittsburgh, Idos mom runs to us 
with a bag containing wonton 
soup from Oriental Terrace, a 
restaurant that happens to be 20 
feet from the bus station. People 
give us strange looks on the bus 
as we spill about half the soup on 
the floor, and the other half in our 
laps.
But enough about Cleveland. 
This past week, we visited a res
taurant conveniently located in 
Oakland called Golden Palace 
Buffet (3607 Forbes Avenue, 687-
____________ 2288). As we
walked there, we 
were not expectingmuch, since we 
knew it was more 
fast food than any
thing else. 
^ We were pleas
antly surprised upon arrival to 
discover the low prices: $5.25 for 
lunch and $6.95 for dinner. And 
what does this price include? Allyou-can-eat buffetl Not only that, 
but all-you-can-drink Cokel (Its 
an ideal place to study for finals.) 
It was sort of like Highlander, 
except real.
The decor was reminiscent of 
Yum Wok, except there were real 
plates andutensilsmadeofmetal. 
We noticed that there was plenty
of leg room (or more to the point, 
gut room), which we would need 
after our enormous meal.
There was as much wonton, 
hot and sour, and egg drop soup 
as one could eat. Although a bit 
salty, the wonton soup was still 
good. And, since its a buffet, a 
person can choose the ratio of 
wontons to soup, thus satisfying 
his or her inner needs.
Egg rolls were plentiful as well, 
and thankfully were pretty stan
dard. We were happy at the no
tion of being able to eat as many 
egg rolls as we wanted, and not 
having to pay $1.25 for each.
When we finally got around to 
the entrees, we found many to 
choose from. They included Gen
eral Tsos chicken, sweet and sour 
chicken, sweet and sour pork, 
pepper steak, cashew chicken, 
and many more. Most of the 
dishes were mediocre, but a few 
of the dishes, such as the cashew 
chicken, were excellent. Thus, for 
the price that you pay, Golden 
Palace Buffet is a great deal!
The cashew chicken was deli
cious, and we couldnt help but 
think that it was better than that 
of other more expensive restau
rants. It had a light taste, and the 
chicken was tender.
Our strategy at Golden Palace 
Buffet was to eat until we were 
full, and then just wait. Eventu
ally, we were hungry again.
As our friend Burt put it, Its 
not all I WANT to eat, its all I 
CAN eat. So, for about an hour 
and a half, we ate. That is, until 
the hostess began to give us the 
evil eye.
Unfortunately, the fortune 
cookies were not all you can eat. 
However, we asked nicely and 
got two fortune cookies each.
All in all, Golden Palace Buffet 
is a great deal. You get all you can 
(or want to) eat, all the caffeine 
you could possibly want, and a 
variety of dishes.
The plates were very pretty, 
the mugs were stolen, the food 
was chock full of MSG, and you 
can buy takeout for $3.95/pound 
(were serious!). We give Golden 
Palace Buffet 3 out of 5 Tsos.
This weeks fortune of the week 
comes to us courtesy of our friend 
Larry: Chinese food is like a 
water well. Its only good with 
friends. (Its very deep...)
So where are we going next 
week? Home. Its spring vaca
tion!
HighlanderWEEK OF: March 13th to
March 19th
Monday 3/13 Tuesday 3/14 Wednesday 3/15 Thursday 3/16 Friday 3/17 Saturday 3/18 Sunday 3/19
Breakfast
Grill
Soup_//Chili.
LunchBBBBBBBBBBBB
Dinner
Scrambled Eggs 
Sausage Patties 
Hashbrowns 
Belgium Waffles 
Grits
Hamburgers 
Hot Dogs 
Meatball Sandwich 
Steak Fries 
Mushrooms
Tomato Rice 
Soup 
Zesty Chili
Baked Chicken 
Mixed Vegetables 
Rotini & Alfredo 
Sauce 
Marinara Sauce 
Whipped Potatoes 
Cheese Pizza 
Sausage Pizza
Ranch Style Stew 
Baked Stuffed 
Pork Chops 
Spinach Cheese 
Casserole 
Browned Potatoes 
Cinnamon Apples 
Baby Carrots 
Dinner Rolls
Hard Boiled Eggs 
Sliced Bacon 
Homefries 
French Toast 
Cream of Wheat
Hamburgers 
Hot Dogs 
Teen Twist 
Spicy Fries 
Grilled Onions
Louisiana Com 
Chowder 
Vegetarian Chili
Fettucini with 
Marinara Sauce 
Cantonese 
Pineapple Pork 
Steamed Rice 
Baby Carrots 
Cheese Pizza 
White Pizza
Chicken Cacciatore 
Veal Scaloppini 
Lemon Rice 
Manicotti 
Green Beans 
Zucchini with 
Tomatoes 
Garlic Bread
Scrambled Eggs 
Sliced Ham 
Tator Tots 
Pancakes 
Oatmeal
Hamburgers 
Hot Dogs 
Veg. Burger 
String Fries 
Mushrooms
Broccoli 
Supreme Soup 
Zesty Chili
Swedish 
Meatballs 
Baked Ziti 
Mixed Vegetables 
Egg Noodles 
Cheese Pizza 
Deluxe Pizza
Beef Stroganoff 
Fillet of Cod 
Florentine 
Pasta & Vegetable 
Casserole 
Cut Com 
Broccoli Cuts 
Dinner Rolls
Scrambled Eggs 
Hard Boiled Eggs 
Corn Beef Hash 
Belgium Waffles 
Grits
Hamburgers 
Hot Dogs 
Patty Melt 
Spicy Fries 
Mushrooms
Chicken Gumbo 
Soup 
Vegetarian Chili
Open-Faced 
Turkey 
Spaghetti with 
Marinara Sauce 
Green Peas 
Whipped Potatoes 
Cheese Pizza 
Pepperoni Pizza
Southern Chicken 
Pot Pie 
Sicilian Chopped 
Steak 
Montery Bake 
Califlower 
Chopped Spinach 
Baked Potatoes 
Dinner Rolls
Scrambled Eggs 
Sausage links 
Homefries 
Pancakes 
Cream of Wheat
Hamburgers 
Hot Dogs 
Fish Sandwich 
String Fries 
Grilled Peppers
Manhattan 
Clam Chowder 
Zesty Chili
Tuna Casserole 
Linguini with 
Marinara Sauce 
Alfredo Sauce 
Baked Potatoes 
Cheese Pizza 
Sausage & 
Pepper Pizza
Breaded Cod 
Fillets 
Beef Ravoli 
Deep Dish 
Vegetable Pie 
Peas & Onions 
Rice Pilaf 
Mixed Vegetables 
Dinner Rolls
r ^
SPRING BREAK
HAVE FUN 
EVERYONE!!!
***Menus Subject to Change 
Without Notice

---------------------------------------------------

MOTORCYCLE OPERATOR LICENSE
QUALIFIED TO RIDE.
Having a motorcycle operator license is more than legal. Its vital. Statistics 
show that unlicensed riders account for 80% of the fatalities in some tr'TT y 
States. So get your license. It's proof that you can ride. And it mayVS1/ 
even keep you from becoming a statistic, ELQLteJe41 Cfv1QJ vLrDbfQiLyW
CD
TRADER
VISIT A NEW KIND OF MUSIC STORE...
Alternative, blues, jazz, imports, pop/rock, reggae, ska, 
techno, world plus 50 other categories...
10,000 new and used CD's,
hear any CD before you buy it,
low prices, buy or trade program, 
cheap large posters,
and the best deals in the area.
201 South Craig Street 
Oakland
M.nday Saturday
Fn<?aY 11am to 5pm10am to 6pm
Pittsburgh Public Theater
Allegheny Center. North Side
Sponsored by RAMADA
Al l. SIITI* HOTI-I
NOW PLAYING!
321-9800
Groups 10 or more: 323-8435
Ofers&fe|!
Gel our exclusive, internationally-acclaimed Vdumetrk^ 
haircut and related services for just *17.95 with selected 
designers. Every haircut appointment includes coaaitation, 
shampooing, conditioning, styling, blow dry and styling lesson! 
Present your Student ID to get your Philip Pelusi Student 
Discount Card. Free Consultations Every Day!
Voted #1 Salon for Haircuts by The City Paper;
In Pittsburgh and The Pittsburgh Tribune Review.
Squirrel Hill............................................521-1200
One Oxford Centre............................... 261-6550
Century III Mall......................................655-1940
Village Square Mall................................ 833-6770 J|
Westmoreland Mall.............................. . 036-6670
tHss Park Mall........................................ 366-1555
Stinson Town Centre............................788-0204 
Mewoeville Mall.....................................372-7520
A& About Our Design Team 
Training Sbsion Haircuts... just *10.95.
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
BASTONE AUTO SERVICE 
235 1/2 CARRON ST. 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15206 
(412) 362-3548 
(412) 361-3554
AAA APPROVED  ASE CERTIFIED
VISA MASTERCARD DISCOVER ACCEPTED
Approved 
Auto Repair
BRAKE SPECIAL 
$20.00 OFF 4 WHEEL SERVICE 
$10.00 OFF 2 WHEEL 
WITH MENTION OF THIS AD!
Northwestern 
Summer Session 95Make a splash.
At .Northwestern's Summer Session youll 
have access to Chicago and its beaches, 
parks, museums, festivals, shopping, 
baseball, music, and food. We have lakefront campuses in Chicago and Evanston 
(they're about 30 minutes apart) where 
you can earn credit in courses that 
last from one to nine weeks. Come to 
Summer Session at Northwestern and 
make a splash.
Noteworthy in '95: Field schools in 
archaeology, environmental studies, 
ethnography, and urban studies and a 
six-week program in Prague.
For more information, please call 
1-800-FINDS NU.
For a free copy of the Summer Session 95 
catalog, call 1-800-FINDS NU (in Illinois, call 
708-491-5250), fax your request to 
708-491-3660, e-mail your request to 
summer95@nwu.edu, or mail this coupon to 
Summer Session 95, 2115 North Campus Drive, 
Suite 162, Evanston, Illinois 60208-2650.
Send the catalog to O my home O my school.
Name
SchHHl Add5ess
Sbt3StateZbI
HHme Add5ess
Sbt3State ZbI
Northwestern is in equal opportunity, affirmative action educator and employer.
*
ALL-MW tPWODtf!
muftbm mom/woe
From the original animators of The Simpsons. 
Featuring the voices of Jason Alexander, 
Nancy Travis, Tim Curry and 
Dweezil Zappa. With music by Frank Zappa.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Camegie Mellon University  13 March 1995L13
Ok, this is a tough one, people. See, what happens 
is that this is the only movie this week. However, Ill 
also go ahead and do the ones for after Spring 
Break, just because I love you.
Ok. Heres what Red Rock West is about: Nicholas 
Cage is a down-and-out guy who is hired to kill this 
guys wife. The wife, Lara Flynn Boyle, is Cages 
undoing. All he wants to do is collect the money and 
run, but Boyle wont let him. Then Dennis Hopper 
shows up and all hell breaks loose. Anyway, thats 
not for us sissy boys to worry about.
This movie is very thrilling and chilling. Directed 
by John and Rick Dahl, this movie is very good. See 
it.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, March 26
Scum of the Earth
This beautifully crafted, artfully revolting piece of 
work has little more to offer than the rather unat
tractive title suggests. Based on a novel by Marcel 
Proust, this biting portrayal of the Scum of the 
Earth is the veiy pith and meat of fine dining.
Like a nice carafe of Welchs Grape Juice and a 
frozen burrito, this movie leaves you stained and 
hurting, butyoulllove every minute ofit. See Scum 
of the Earth if someone threatens your life or the life 
of your family.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Thursday, March 30
Blue Angel
This movie is German and stars Marlene Deitrich 
and a bunch of German guys who are all in black 
and white. What happens is this: this German guy 
falls in love with Deitrich, who plays Lola-Lola, a 
dancer at a seedy club. Then Deitrich tears up his 
life and pretty much ruins him. Aint love grand?
This is a very artsy and good movie. In fact, it woks 
and rolls, to coin a phrase. See this movie with 
someone who used to be a dancer and is now tearing 
up your life. Your stomach will thank you for it.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, March 31
Pulp Fiction
Ok. John Travolta. Bruce Willis. Uma Thurman. 
This big guy with a band-aid on his neck. These two 
hicks. I mean, how could you go wrong?
It breaks down like this: Bruce Willis is a boxer 
whose daddy keeps stuff up his butt. John Travolta 
is a hit man who can really shake his booty and wok 
and roll. Uma Thurman is this chick who overdoses. 
Its kind of like something that is good but has that 
loving feeling, kind of like shooting up and driving 
your car. Directed by Stephen Spielrock, aka Quentin 
Tarentino, this movie is as shocking as the Brady 
Bunch is funny. Damn, Jimmy, you got to see this.
At 6, 9 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, April 1
The Shawshank 
Redemption
Based on a suck-ass story by Stephen King, this 
movie stars Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. It 
breaks down like this: Freeman is a nice convict and 
Robbins is a guy who got into jail for cheating on 
taxes or something. So then what happens is that 
Robbins is taken care of, if you know what I mean, 
by the warden, in return for doing his taxes or 
something. Anyway, its an uplifting story of cour
age and undeclared income. Oh, and he eats a 
maggot.
This movie is no Caged Heat, but it does have some 
strong points like not sucking as bad as the Stephen 
King story. See it just to say you saw it, and love just 
to feel the love.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, April 2
Evil Dead II
Sam Raimi directs this film about people who are 
dead and evil. There is lots of blood and gore and is 
supah fly fun. Although Evil Dead I was better, 
thats to be expected. See this movie or be this 
movie, or at least thats what I see.
It also stars Dan Hicks and a bunch of guys and 
gals who get attacked by demons in a log cabin. I 
think the budget was like $46, but its surprisingly 
Well-done.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Madness gives realistic portrayal
GEORGE, from page L9
crying like a baby.
As if an insane monarch, who debates the
my partner asked what I thought of the 
movie. Well, I didnt need to answer because 
I had a somewhat smug look of contentment 
craziness isnt on my face. The I know you dont usuallynature of his own 
Shakespearian enough, 
throw in a spoiled son 
who Wants to sabotage 
his father andhave him
self installed as ruler.
Dont chalk this up as 
a tragedy yet, though.
Everyone thinks George 
is nuts, but he still has 
allies who dont want the Prince in charge of like costume dramas, but you enjoyed this
Leaving the theatre, my partner asked 
what I thought of the movie. Well, I 
didn't need to answer...
Parliament. Lady Pembroke (Amanda 
Donahoe), recommends a good doctor for 
just such disorders as George suffers. As 
usual, I wont tell you how things turn out. If 
youre into history, you probably know any
way. I will say, however, that if you ever feel 
a bit out of your wits, a good reading of The 
Tempest might help. Leaving the theatre,
one look. Its hard not to enjoy The Madness 
of King George. The whole premise was fas
cinating. As I said earlier, the acting was 
great. The costumes and props were perfect. 
The scenery was absolutely spectacular. Most 
of all, it was surprisingly witty.
We agreed that things did get a bit heavy 
in the middle of the film. I feel that things
began to slow down when the Kings treat
ment began, while Rich seemed to think 
it slowed even before then, during the 
gravest parts of Georges illness. Either
-------- way, it didnt take long for things
to pick up again. The lull in the 
middle of the film certainly didnt 
destroy its enjoyability for either 
of us. Whats more, while a certain 
knowledge of the history behind 
King George may add to the 
i viewers appreciation of The Mad
ness of King George, its not neces
sary. The film gives you enough of a back
ground to go from. At the end, it even 
explains exactly what the Kings illness 
was.
From what I did know of the man who 
served as King of England in the late 18th 
to early 19th century, The Madness of 
King George is most probably quite accu
rate and most definitely quite believable.
Penguins provide entertaining diversion
STEELING PITTSBURGH'S THUNDER
By Gretel T. Gaal
In the past decade or so, the name Mario Lemieux has become 
synonymous with the Pittsburgh Penguins. There is no doubt that 
Lemieux has rightfully earned his distinction as Pittsburghs fran
chise player; like Wayne Gretzky of the L.A. Kings, he increases both 
enthusiasm and Civic Arena attendance.
Well, when he plays, anyway.
So, for those not-quite-fans 
who would attend Penguins 
games to see Lemieux lead 
the team to victory, Marios  
recent stretch of absences 
might be a deterrent. But 
heres a news flash for you: 
The Penguins arent just %
a good team without 
Lemieux. Theyre a great 
team.
And, at times, they have to be 
seen to be believed. With up-andcoming stars like Jaromir Jagr,
Martin Straka, and Shawn 
McEachem combining with established 
players like Luc Robitaille, Ron Francis, 
and Joe Mullen, the Penguins generate an 
energy and excitement thats hard to understand unless youve had the opportunity to see ^ 
them in person. %
Ive been to countless games over the years, and %
I can vouch for the fact that Pittsburgh hockey is % 
never boring. And this season, though abbreviated 
due to the NHL lockout, is certainly no exception.
To start off with, hockey is a very fast-paced game that 
requires speed and skill and doesnt allow for many breaks -f1
in the action. In other words, these arent 350-pound guys 
butting heads or 250-pound guys plodding around the bases.
A 21-year-old player like Martin Straka, 5'10" and 178 lbs., can 
turn the entire opposition inside out, virtually single-handedly; 
believe me, Ive seen him do it!
Plus, what other sport do you know of where two guys can beat the 
shit out of each other and be back on the ice five minutes later?
This is one hell of a game! And with widely-hated and locallyrevered Ulf Samuelsson playing on our side, theres never a dull 
moment. So whats stopping you? If youre anything like me and
other normal college students, there are two main factors which! 
make taldngin a game seem next to impossible: money and transpor
tation. It just so happens that there do exist solutions to both of these; 
problems:
Believe it or not, there are fairly cheap seats available in the Civic 
Arena. No, theyre not going to be in right next to the ice, in Sections; 
A or B (also known as Yuppie Heaven), and, yes, some people will call' 
these F Section seats Peanut Heaven. But I have sat there many: 
times, and I will sit there many more, and for $28 more, those balding 
businessmen wont see any more of the game than I will in my $19 
seats.
Another option lies in Limited View seating; for $4 less, youll 
probably see less of the game, but Ive experienced these seats, tooj 
and they are still worth it.
Now, if these prices still seem a little hefty for your depleted bank 
account, there are always group rate tickets. RAs know all about this; 
kind of group activity, so go on, b ug your RA to take you to a Pens 
game; thats what theyre here for!
Transportation is the next key. Now, I know when I say PAT 
bus, youll want to run away screaming, but its honestly not 
that bad (believe me, I ride the bus home every Friday for 
an hour; if I can take that, you 
can deal with this 10 minute 
trip!). Just catch the 61 A, B or 
C bus outside of Morewood Gar
dens; tell the driver where yourej 
going and hell even call out the 
Washington Boulevard stop for you.! 
Ask for a transfer, and $1.50 gets you 
there and back.
Basically, an evening at the Igloo will 
cost you roughly $20.50 or less for one of the 
best Pittsburgh activities around. I realize I 
havent included refreshments yet, but for those 
on a budget, I wouldnt recommend eating your 
dinner there.
As with all other sporting events in America, the 
prices are outrageous: youll pay $2.50 for a watered^ 
down Coke and $2.00 for a cold Hot Pretzel, and thats^ 
not even the worst of it. Just think of the inflated cost oil 
food at Morewood, and youre getting warm. No doubt youll 
swear to yourself, as I always do, that you wont be spending' 
any of your money on unworthy food.
But, as it seems to be the American Way, youll probably 
forget that pledge; I can often be seen munching on a hard soft
pretzel myself, as I join in the clapping and the shouting.
So sit back, relax, and go with the flow. Youll be a fan before you 
know it!
For ticket information, call 323-1919, or visit any TicketMaster 
Outlet (Kaufmanns, National Record Mart) or the Civic Arena Box 
Office.
Gretel T. Gaal is a junior English major.
AND THE TOYOTA COLLEGE GRAD PROGRAM.
...Now With Special Financing As Low As 2.9% APR/
Theres no better way to enter the work force than behind the wheel of the all-new, always dependable Toyota Tercel.
And its easy with Toyotas special college graduate program... just choose Toyota's special financing or get Toyotas premier rate', 
with no down payment, no payments for 90 days, and a year of free roadside assistance. Just see your participating Toyota dealer for all the details.
WERE MAKING IT EASIER FOR COLLEGE GRADS.
 COLLEGE GRADUATE PROGRAM FINANCED THROUGH TOYOTA MOTOR CREDIT CORPORATIONS 60 MONTH PREMIER RATE " TOTAL FINANCED CANNOT EXCEED MSRP PIUS OPTIONS. TAX ANO UCENSE FEES. FINAIIGNG AVAILABLE YflTH APPROVED CREDIT THROUGH (^?P) TOYOT A TOYOTA MOTOR CREDIT CORPORATION. DEFERRED FINANCE CHARGES ACCBUEFROUTHE CONTRACT DATE. SEE PARTICIPATING DEALER FOR DETA'LS. tJ.9%APR FOR 24 MONTHS AVAILABLE TO QUAUF1ED BUYERS THROUGH TOYOTA MOTOR CREDIT CORPORATION. TOTAL
Weve Made It Easier For The Class Of 6fD To Drive The Class Of fD.
THE ALL NEW TOYOTA TERCEL
g*ml juP 
cmao
NePt Me0tP
NePt .mTt!9
.u)t geeP 
YsLm3! ctmso
ct!!tP Smo 
Nultmat

---------------------------------------------------

Dear,
I love you sooo much!! Are you ready for NC??!! 
L
DarlinoxVpopuliIce of tike People
Red Rock West will be playing in Doherty Hall 
2210 on Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Hewlett Gallery presents From Values to-^roduct, an industrial design exhibit-C0'-Curatea>by 
David Smith and Craig Vogel. Theiexhibit will rip 
from March 27 through AppiLjJ^ The opening/
i5-7piA
lecture by David Smith will foltiQW at 'Tpm in Breed : 
Hall, Margaret Morrison room 103.
Saltworks Theatre Conipany presents! 
musical Narnia, based on tho tale ThffLion, 
Witch, and the Wardrobe. Performances will 
held at the Eddy Theatre at ChatHam College, 
March 23-26, March 30, April 2 anas^jpriU 
with show times at 8 pm on Thursdays, 
and Saturdays; and 3 pm on Saturdays and Sun
days. Tickets are $11 for adults, $9.50 for seniors, 
and $8 for children. For more information, contact 
the box office at 687-8884.
Other Times: Photographs from the Collec
tion, an exhibit of the lives and surroundings of 
earlier peoples as seen through the photographers 
lens, will be on display at the Carnegie Museum of 
Art through May 28. The exhibition explores the 
development of photography through the works of 
25 photographers, including Berenice Abbott, 
Eugene Atget, Julia Margaret Cameron, Ansel 
Adams, and August Sander. For more informa
tion, call 622-3131.
The Red Badge of Courage, adapted from 
Stephen Cranes classic novel by Thomas W. Olson, 
directed by Richard Thomas, and presented by the 
Kennedy Center Imagination Celebration on Tour, 
comes to the Fulton Theater on April 23 at 3 pm as 
part of the Trusts Live on Stage series. Single 
tickets are $13 and $8 for Live on Stage members. 
Call 456-6666 for tickets or visit the Benedum 
Center Box Ofgtce. v
NOTICES
Analysis presents 
at 3:30 pm in Baker 
Hall 235A. He will lecture on The Best of Possible 
Islands: Seville, Expo 92, and the Politics of Cul
ture in the New Spain.  Stephen Brockman from 
the Modern Language department will lecture on 
March 31 at 3:30 pm in Baker Hall 235A. He will 
be talking about 1945-1995: Germanys Zero 
Hour Fifty Years Later.
Dr. Okishio, Professor of Architecture and Dean 
of Faculty of Engineering from the Science Uni
versity of Tokyo, will present a public talk on his 
studies of human behavior in response to architec
tural disaster. The talk will cover the recent 
earthquake in Kobe, Japan, and his studies of 
human behavior in hotel fires. The lecture will be 
given in DH 2315 at 6:30 pm on March 15.
HEART JAM 95, the eighth annual aerobic 
marathon to benefit the American Heart 
Associations research, educational and commu
nity service programs, will take place in the 
Carnegie Mellon University gymnasium on March 
26. Registration for this event begins at 10 am. 
The aerobic marathon takes place from noon to 2 
.The free health and trade show will continue 
throughout the day. Pre-registration is $25 ,
$10 f6r full-time students. Registration at tie 
door re $30 and $15 for full-time students. Deaa _ 
line foV pre-registration is March 24. For more^ 
ation or to register, call 243-5393.
ie Spanish Cultural Club of Pittsburgh will 
Id its traditional dinner dance in observance of 
l-American day on April 8 at 6:30 pm, in the 
im room of the University Club, 123 UniverPlace, Oakland. The program includes a 
musical interlude, a performance of typical Latin 
American dances, and door prizes. An orchestra 
will provide music for dancing. Everyone is wel
come, with a charge of $40 for non-members. 
Reservations may be made through April 2 by 
calling 653-3059 during the day, or 833-7525 
evenings.
The sixth annual Vegetarian Taste-Fest spon
sored by Animal Advocates will include a gourmet 
vegetarian chef who will incorporate the four new 
food groups into five delicious menu items to be 
served. The Taste^Fest ^ill be held on March 18 
from H am to 3 pm at Emory United Methodist 
Churtjh, 325 North Highland Avenue. In addition 
to music, and dancing, the event includes free 
caricatures, product-samples, recipe cards, and 
information on JiealtHTdiet, and animal issues. 
For more information, call 928-9777.
The ^Cajhaegie Library of Pittsburghs Main 
Library invites people who are interested in 
collecting to attend the program titled Collec
tions and Collecting: the Passion to Possess. The 
program will be held on April 11 at 2 pm on the 
first floor. There is an $8 admission fee including 
entry to the Carnegie.
Michael Van Valkenburgh, chairman of the 
Department of Landscape Architecture at Harvard 
Universitys Graduate School of Design, will 
present a lecture entitled The Pittsburgh 
Riverfront and Other Recent Work at 6:30 pm on 
March 13 in the Carnegie Museum of Art Theater. 
Admission is free.
Duquesne University presents T. Obinkaram 
Echewa, a Nigerian-American prize-winning nov
elist, essayist, and professor of writing and com
munication on March 20. An informal discussion 
on his novel I Saw the Sky Catch Fire will take 
place at 3:30 pm in College Hall room 104, and a
lecture on being and writing African in English 
will be held in the Faculty Lounge on the sixth 
floorof the Duquesne Union at 7:30 pm. Formore 
information, call 396-6619.
House. New member safe ~Mways welcome. p0] 
more information, em)ail kl3x or subscribe t
assocs.SARC.
sann
Carnegie Mellon Music Department presents 
Christopher Meeder, tuba major, will be per
forming at his graduate recital on March 13 at 
the-Mellon Institute Auditorium at 8 pm.
Kareji/Beik, viola major, will be performing on 
March 15, and Nicholas Lewis, clarinet major, 
will be perforniing on March 17,at their graduate 
lcitalslBt.8 pm at the Mellon Institute Auditolission is free.
l&Cartijegie Mellon Choirs will perform at 
the Alumni Concert Hall at 8 pm on March 14. 
Admission is also free.
The University of Pittsburgh Department 
of Musics Music on the Edge series presents the 
Elekoto Intercultural Ensemble in concert April 
4 at 8 pm in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. 
Elekoto performs intercultural music based on 
resources derived from Africa, Asia, and Europe. 
The group is composed of six musicians from 
India, Nigeria, Malaysia, China and Germany. 
Admission is $8 for adults and $5 for students 
and senior citizens. For more information, call 
624-4125.
The Carnegie Mellon University Spanish 
and Latino Student Association (SALSA) is 
sponsoring SALSA: LATIN AND LIVE! on March 
28 from 8 pm-midnight in the Drill Deck. Every
one is welcome and admission is free. There will 
be a live band: La Orquesta Tropical. For more 
information, please call Daniel Tunkelang at x8- 
3337.
The Modern Languages Department invite,
you to join'their Mternatidftalifinguage Table 
for lunch in the Morewood Food Court. Wednes 
days from 1^:30-1:30 pm tjliere are the Frencl 
table and the Russian table. Oil Mondays, jointhi 
German table from noonfto 1 <pm and on Fridayi 
the Japanese tabio fraifi 12-1 pm. From 12-1 
there is the Spanish table in the Humanities an 
Social Sciences Student Lounge on Wednesdays 
Also, on Wednesdays at 12:301:30 pm in th 
GSIA Commons, there is an Italian table.
Hillel's Jewish University Center invites yoi 
to attend the Open Forum Meeting at the JUC o 
March 13 at 8 pm. This is a good opportunity ti 
voice your opinions about Jewish life on campus 
to help plan the programs that you want, and ti 
access the funds to make it happen. Please emai 
rsbj for more information.
Whiskey Rebellion Toastmasters Club meet 
every Wednesday from 7-8:30pm at the McGei 
Center, 745 Greenfield Avenue. If you Have a fea 
for public speaking, then this is the club for you 
Call 422-5361 for more information.
RELIGION
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a (iion-denominational student study group, provides a! 
weekly forum for inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings areJield Tues
days at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Leamt^groor 
236. Call Dave Weiner at 431-4047 for mor 
information.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays 
and Thursdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A in the 
main gym. Formore information, email cd2b, call 
862-2151, or subscribe to assocs.Kenpo_Karate.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in Doherty Hall 
Room 1212. For more information, call 268-2114.
Student Alumni Relations Council (SARC) 
meets every Wednesday at 5 pm at the Alumni
Bible Study will be hosted by Tech Housi 
(Roselawn 15) every Sunday night at 9 pm. All an 
invited. For more information, call 268-2484.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrate; 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Studeni 
Center room 224, Monday through Friday. Week 
end Masses are celebrated at 10:30 am and  
every Sunday in Posner Hall. For more informa 
tion, call the Newman Oratory Center at I 
3181.
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes Av
enue (nearSoiith Craig Street), offers and cel. ebrates Eucharist every Wednesday at noon and 
Sunday at 11 agi. Call 682-6886 for information
Hillels Jewish tJniversity Center, 4551 Forbes 
Wenue, atop Care Arabica, celebrates-Shabbaton 
indays at 6 prpftvith good food, good friends, and 
gocrcUimes. CaJ 621-8875 for more informationo 
emaimc89.
Muslim Students Association holds daily mid
day prayers at 1:40 pm in the Student Center 
room 224. Study circle follows on Saturday. Fin
ger or email msa for more information.
The Islamic Center of Pittsburgh, 4100 Bigelow 
Blvd., holds the five daily prayers and during 
Ramadan also has taraweeh and free iftar.1 
Friday prayers are at 12:15 pm.<Jail'682-5555 for 
information.
Did I say I could beat you at anything with one hand tied behind my back? 
 R.
Declan, give back the key.
Thunderbunny,
Not in the driveway!
Next time try parking the car.
Stop cooing my bird!
anj...
SIGHTINGS
lester
*thump* ?thump* *thump* 
wookie, you cant escape!
Thoughtless 
swim in shallow 
often drown.
 The Mer Muse
Quia fecit mihi magna qui 
et sanctum nomens eius. 
 Superstring
The Fox, Mr. Jimenez, The Fox! Tally ho!! 
 Par
Amit 
We saw you at Pegasus  We NEVER 
closet!?!?!?!?!?
Phone her.
Then sleeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeppp............sleeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeepp.
 M.
Carpe Cheaney! 
We love to live! 
 At. Aludra
Hey Yinzer Girl,but you cant flatter me.
Zeppelin quote of the week:
So, of one thing I am sure, its a 
fine. Yeah, aint but one thing to 
knew, so fine!
The Delirium of datta 
is the thought of 
reason and existence.
 Rezrap
Check out the wook on stage.
friendship so pure, angels singing all round my door, so 
do, spend my natural life with you, youre the finest girl I
Butterfly
Youre safe:
Hush now, dont you cry.
Im still smiling next to you... 
 P
