Inside
Calendar...Classified...Comics...Diversions...Forum....Living....Sports....
..L12 
.... 9 
.....L6
,..U
...12
Diversions
Like reviews?
 see page L9
Living
Phipps in full bloom
mJISBw&t see page L1
Sports
Rochester falls 20- 
10  see page 12THE TARTAN
Volume 90. Issue 8Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190630 October 1995
Living lab on Maggie Mo nears completion
Architecture Dept offers sneak peek at proposed cure for sick buildings
By YOSEF BIRNBOIM
Tartan Staffwriter
Building technology will take a 
nantleapforwardinl996, thanks 
n part to CMUs Architecture 
Department.
Thats when the Intelligent 
Workplace, now under construc
tion on the roof of Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Hall, is sched
uled for completion. With this 
living laboratory, the Architec
ture Departments Center for 
Building Performance and Diag
nostics (CBPD) hopes to create 
more productive, efficient, and 
;afe workplaces.
The CBPD offered a sneak peek 
at the project on Friday. Profes
sor VolkerHartkopf, a member of 
the CBPD, said that 25 percent of 
ihe U.S.s 50 million office work
ers work in "sick buildings. Sick 
buildings suffer from design probems that encourage things like 
;he spread of viruses or repeti
tive stress injuries.
The program is being conducted 
by the department, using money
donated by organizations from 
all over the world. Besides 
Hartkopf, architecture faculty 
members Stephen Lee, Vivian 
Loftness, Ardeshir Mahdavi, and 
Steven Duckworth are part of the 
CBPD.
Hartkopf said that while the 
need for heating, air condition
ing, and power efficiency has 
grown, building technology 
hasnt. Cramped, sealed, lightless 
office buildings have caused losses 
in productivity and energy.
Part of it is because of the heat 
and energy load that the circuits 
were never meant to handle, the 
lighting load and air quality have 
been worsened, and there is an 
elevated illness rate, he said. 
From 1981 until 1991, illness in 
the workplace was up 1,000 per
cent. From 1991 until 1993 it was 
up an additional 500 percent.
The office is designed to be very 
flexible, unlike many of the office 
buildings of today, which are built 
in a grid style. Lee called them 
sealed glass boxes.
The Intelligent Workplace is
designed to be easily changed and 
added on to as needs and technol
ogy dictate. For example, all of 
the wiring is done in the floor, 
rather than the ceiling, so that 
the customized workstations can 
be moved practically anywhere 
and immediately get back to work.
The office will also monitor 
things such as energy efficiency. 
The large windows let in light 
and fresh air, and solar power 
will also be tapped.
In addition, some workers will 
be equipped with Johnson Con
trols personal environment mod
ules (PEMs), which allow the oc
cupant to set the controls to their 
preferences while they are in their 
workspace.
When they leave, the climate 
control system will return to the 
most efficient setting.
In other areas, the hot and cold 
water supply pipes in the wall 
will also be used as part of the 
climate control system.
Some ofthe goals ofthe project, 
said CBPD staffer Ann Garven, 
are to demonstrate innovations,
to integrate and create comfort
able and safe innovations through 
research, and to disseminate the 
knowledge to future architects. 
Many relationships between 
the energy used and the trade 
deficit have been found, said Lee. 
Buildings need to adapt to chang
ing technology, he said.
According to Lee and Hartkopf, 
40 percent of the energy con
sumed in the U.S. is in office 
buildings, and in 1993, energy in 
the residential and commercial 
building sectors cost $203 billion.
The offices design, said 
Hartkopf, was based on studies 
done on various advanced build
ings around the world, including 
the United States, Germany, Ja
pan, England, and Canada. He 
said it is intended as a model for 
other countries to follow.
Twenty percent of the worlds 
population uses 80 percent of the 
worlds resources, said Hartkopf. 
The U.S., Europe, and Japan, 
are the beacons for other coun
tries to follow, but [their] quality 
Please see WORKPLACE, page 3
m
*SESSiiI
B S'S IBIS;* IJLIP!?* ^ pww
Yosef Birnboim/Tartan Staffwriter
Members ofthe Centerfor Building Performance and Diagnostics show 
off the Intelligent Workplace, now under construction on Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Hall. It is targeted for completion in 1996.
Lawyer briefs CMU crowd...
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor
Noted criminal defense attorney Leonard Weinglass was at CMU last 
week to address two English classes and to speak about the Mumia AbuJamal case. Please see story, page L4.
in this week's election...
Mistakes leave Senate ballot empty
STUDENT 
. SENATE
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Half of Student Senates 38 seats are up 
for grabs this semester, but the ballot is 
almost empty. Senate Human Resources 
Chair Brenden Mielke said that a series of 
mistakes resulted in just three candidates 
being put on the ballot.
Basically, everyone screwed up, said 
Mielke. We never asked about publicity, 
and we never checked on it. We just del
egated the responsibility and assumed that 
it would get done. It wasnt just one persons 
fault. It takes a group effort to screw up 
this badly.
Each semester, half the seats in Student 
Senate come up for re-election. To qualify 
for a seat, students must be enrolled and 
have paid their Activities Fee.
In addition, to get on the ballot, candi
dates are required by Senates by-laws to 
submit a petition, signed by 25 students 
from their college. Petitions are due two 
weeks prior to the first day of elections.
This semesters Senate election was 
scheduled for November 1, which made the
deadline for petitions October 18. Nor
mally, an ad for the petition would run in 
The Tartan before the upcoming elections. 
This year, however, the newspaper didnt 
publish that week due to mid-semester 
break.
An election ad was placed in last weeks 
paper  five days after the deadline.
The lack of publicity was my fault to 
some extent, but what you have to realize 
is that in addition to being the public
It takes a group effort to screw 
up this badly. 
 IM Senator Brenden Mielke
relations chair, I am also a student at CMU 
and I was just as pressed with exams that 
week as everyone else was, said junior 
economics major Eduardo Gonzalez.
Last week, Senate debated whether or 
not they should extend the petition dead
line due to lack of publicity and awareness.
I think that if theres only one person 
[sic] on the ballot, then we should have 
extended the deadline, said CIT Senator 
Daan Coster.
Coster said that it takes three days to
print the ballots, leaving only the weekend 
and three weekdays to gather the peti
tions. Senates election board, which must 
validate all petitions, would have had a 
tight deadline to meet, but Coster said that 
they could have met the challenge.
I think that Senate approved a list of 
about 40 people to be on the elections board. 
Even if 40 people ran, which hardly ever 
happens, I still dont see it as a big time 
crunch. Thats what, one petition to one
____________________ election board member?
I think that it could have 
been done, said Coster.
I thought that it was 
awful that it had to come 
to this, said Senate chair 
Kami White. I wish that 
everything had gone ac
cording to plan. The 
deadline wasnt altered 
because of the by-laws. 
White said that if the deadline was al
tered, the entire election might have been 
challenged and invalidated. I can see how 
its very frustrating to the students, she 
said. It frustrates me, too and thats why 
were trying to change things. This was in 
no way intentional on our part.
We werent trying to hide the deadline 
or anything. We had people on ExComm 
[Executive Committee] who didnt make 
the petition deadline. I think that the maPlease see ELECTION, page 3
Pittsburgh ACLU names GSIA professor Mr. Civil Liberties
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
If ever a local person deserved to be called Mr. 
pivil Liberties, GSIA professor Thomas Kerr would 
ft the bill.
Kerr, 76, has been a local force in civil-rights law 
since the close of the McCarthy era in the early 
50s. In 1956, Kerr and a handful of others were 
forking to reinstate the ACLUs Pittsburgh chaper- He would eventually go on to chair the Greater 
ittsburgh chapter, serve as president of the Pennsylvania ACLU, and hold a seat n the 
)rganizations national board.
At the same time, he was working in a modest 
|ce on the second floor of GSIA, helping CMU 
tudents with legal problems and teaching them 
pbout anti-trust law, securities regulation, em^yee/employer relations, and government reguations.
His work was honored last Wednesday at a gala 
nner at the Hyatt Regency at Chatham Center,
downtown, when the local chapter named him Mr. 
Civil Liberties.
Among the invited guests was Robert Nelkin, 
who as a young college student during the Vietnam 
war was a conscientious objector. Kerr successfully 
lobbied the government to allow Nelkin to perform 
alternative service.
Nelkins alternative service, working with dis
abled children, eventually led him to become a 
professional social worker and head of one of the 
countys mental health agencies.
Thats what you get proud of, said the disarm
ing, slightly rumpled Kerr. Individual cases, where 
there was a benefit to the person, and I see how 
their lives have benefited since.
As an ACLU staff member, Kerr confronted 
Philadelphias controversial police commissioner 
(and later mayor), Frank Rizzo. He fought for fair 
treatment of students facing the draft during the 
Vietnam war. He helped the NAACP fight racial 
discrimination by lending his counsel. He even 
took on The Pittsburgh Press when it refused to
stop printing gender-specific help wanted ads.
Hes a man who has moved mountains, and 
knows he can move mountains, said Vic Walczak, 
executive director of the ACLUs Pittsburgh chap
ter. But Walczak said that while Kerrs legal mind 
has always been sharp, his negotiating style has 
rarely been confrontational.
Instead, hell tell them a story, and try to make 
that person see that what theyre doing is wrong, 
said Walczak. He is a master of telling stories and 
making a point.
Walczak said that the honor  only the second 
time that the local chapter has made such an 
award  was long overdue.
Tom was selected because he was really the 
obvious choice, he said. There was no doubt. 
There was no debate.
Kerr was born in 1919 in Weehawken, N.J., and 
graduated from Lafayette College in Easton, Pa. in 
1940 with a bachelors degree in economics. He was 
working for an insurance company when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor on December 7,1941.
The next day, he enlisted in the Marine Corps. He 
met his wife, Jean, a military nurse, when she was 
caring for one of his men, and the)' Were married 
Late in 1943. ,l V-.-.
Kerr would eventuallyv.-serye throughout the 
Pacific Theater, and was involved in the invasions 
ofthe Marshall Islands, Saipan, and Iwo Jima. He 
earned a bronze star,- a silver star, and a Purple 
Heart', and left the service as a Captain.
After the war, Kerr moved to Washington, D.C. 
and went to George Washington University Law 
School under the G.I. Bill. Thats where one of his 
professors, an expert on anti-trust law, helped him 
begin his career.
He called me in after he read my exam, said 
Kerr. He said, Like seem to like this stuff. Would 
you like me to call th anti-trust division [ofthe 
U.S. Justice Department] and see if they have a job 
for you? 
Kerr worked for the Justice Department while 
he finished his law degree and passed the bar. He 
Please see KERR, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

2Li vngvl a bvnlioi Mieerl slocinmogp a t* SgrEin IPP!
Page Z...
Congressional leaders sound off on budget veto threat
House leader Armey: Clinton lacks principle
WASHINGTON, D.C., Oct. 27 (DJ)
 Despite repeated threats by Presi
dent Clinton to veto the Republicans 
seven-year plan to balance the budget, 
House Majority Leader Dick Armey 
said he believed that when the final 
act is played out in the budget drama, 
Clinton will sign the bill.
Armey had harsh words for Clinton, 
saying the president was without prin
ciple, and calling him the closest thing 
to a pure politician of anybody I have 
ever known in public office.
He has clearly demonstrated that 
his commitment is to his re-election as 
president more than to any other po
litical objective, Armey said. He will 
know that when that bill gets there ... 
his singular interest in re-election is 
best served by signing the bill.
The Republican leader remained 
unfazed by Clintons repeated threats 
to veto the GOP budget plan, a threat
that was repeated at least twice today. 
Both the House and Senate Minority 
Leaders pledged to block any attempt 
by the Republicans to override a presi
dential veto.
When asked how the president would 
backtrack on his repeated pledges, 
Armey shrugged his shoulders and 
said, I dont know what the align
ment of the stars will be on that day. I 
dont what the polls will say on that 
day.
It is very difficult to predict what 
this president will do because you cant 
get him tied back to some anchor. 
With Ronald Reagan you could. When 
Ronald Reagan came to Washington, 
here was a man with ideological prin
ciple who came here and got confused 
by politicians. Clinton, by contrast, is 
a politician who comes here and gets 
confused by people with principles, 
Armey said.
Minority leaders say theyre prepared to fight
WASHINGTON, D.C., Oct. 27 (DJ)
 In a conference call with President 
Clinton, House Minority Leader Dick 
Gephardt and Senate Minority Leader 
Tom Daschle said they have the votes 
in both the House and Senate to back 
up the presidents threat to veto the 
Republicans seven-year budget plan.
In an unusual development, the 
White House played the conference 
call live to journalists within the White 
House.
I will have no alternative but to
veto [the GOP budget] if it is excessive 
and wrong, Clinton said.
Mr: President, I have consulted with 
virtually every member of our caucus, 
and they have all indicated that if you 
veto it, we will have the votes and then 
some to sustain that veto, Daschle 
said.
We have the same situation in the 
House, Gephardt said, adding that 
the Democrats will be willing to work 
on a new bipartisan budget plan once 
the GOP bill is vetoed.
Russia, U.S. reach Bosnia pact
FT. RILEY, Kan., Oct. 27 (DJ)  
The United States and Russia reached 
agreement on a joint force to serve in 
Bosnia apart from the NATO peace
keeping operation, Defense Secretary 
William Perry announced.
However, Russian Defense Minister 
Pavel Grachev made it clear that 
broader questions of NATO command 
over Russian troops remains a major 
sticking point.
Perry and Grachev said they would 
meet next month in Brussels to work 
out additional details.
Lets not be in too much of a hurry, 
Grachev said.
Perry said that several thousand 
U.S. and Russian troops would par
ticipate in a special operations unit 
that would engage in engineering, 
transportation, and construction ac
tivities in Bosnia.
He said the unit would move into the 
former Yugoslav republic about one
month after the NATO peacekeeping 
force took up its positions.
Perry read the statement announc
ing the agreement while Grachev sat 
to his left. Only at the end of their brief 
press conference'did Grachev speak 
up, and his tone was less upbeat than 
that of his American counterpart.
The basic task is to define how 
Russian units would participate in the 
overall peacekeeping system, however 
not under direct NATO control, he 
said, speaking through an interpreter.
Grachev said there were five or six 
options that would circumvent direct 
command. I am certain we will arrive 
on the true path, he said.
In a show of cooperation, Grachev 
and Perry also visited Whiteman Air 
Force Base in Missouri, where Grachev 
triggered the charge that demolished 
a missile silo. Perry called the cer
emony one of great symbolic signifi
cance.
Finance reporter 
under scrutiny
NEW YORK, Oct. 27 (DJ)  Money 
Magazine agreed to a temporary leave 
for columnist Dan Dorfman, following a 
Business Week magazine report that the 
respected journalist and one of his 
sources are under investigation for pos
sible illegal activities.
In a press release, Money managing 
editor Frank Lalli said he believes 
Dorfman has not violated any laws, but 
said he granted the leave to allow 
Dorfman to address issues raised by the 
Business Week report.
In its November 6 issue, Business Week 
reports Dorfman and Donald Kessler, 
allegedly a source of stock tips for 
Dorfman, are being investigated by the 
U.S. Attorneys office for possible illegal 
activities, including insider trading, wire 
and mail fraud and other violations of 
securities laws.
The magazine cites unidentified 
sources close to the probe.
I want to make it clear I have never 
asked for or received payments for any 
stories, Dorfman said. I have not bought 
or sold a stock in five years and I have 
not violated any laws.
Dorfman, who is also a financial corre
spondent for the CNBC cable network, 
missed at least two regularly scheduled 
appearances early today.
But he later appeared on CNBC and 
called the Business Week report rub
bish.
I can assure every single viewer out 
there that I have nothing to hide. I have 
done nothing wrong and I have nothing 
to be ashamed of, he said.
In his statement, Lalli said Money 
does not believe any of the charges in
volve work Dorfman did for the maga
zine, and said he asked the magazines 
general counsel to investigate the mat
ter.
A spokesman for CNBC said the cable 
network presently has no reason to 
believe that Dan Dorfman has violated 
any law or failed to adhere to the stan
dards of CNBC.
He said CNBC constantly monitors 
compliance with its ethical standards 
and will thoroughly look into the allega
tions in the Business Week article as 
part of that process.
The spokesman said the network ex
pects Dorfman to be back on the air this 
week, with business as usual.
Local landmark 
closes Xmas eve
PITTSBURGH, Oct. 27 (DJ)Feder
ated Department Stores Inc. will shut 
the doors of its Lazarus store in down
town Pittsburgh following the close of 
business December 24.
In a press release, Federated said more 
than 200 Lazarus employees are affected 
by the store closing. A Federated spokes
man said the closing will not have a
material effect on the companys earn
ings. Federated said that following the 
closing, employees will complete a final 
inventory which is expected to be con
cluded no later than mid-January. The 
building has been sold to Blue Cross and 
Blue Shield of Western Pennsylvania, 
which will renovate the facility for its 
offices.
Federated purchased the 10 stores of 
Pittsburgh-based Joseph Home Co. last 
year, adding them to the Lazarus chain. 
Since then, it has worked to remodel 
unprofitable stores, but has been dis
pleased with the performance of the his
toric downtown Pittsburgh store, which 
is just outside the citys retail core.
The stores closure leaves Kaufmanns 
as the sole downtown department store. 
However, Federated said it is planning a 
new downtown Lazarus store that will 
open in the fall of 1998.
Discussions are continuing with em
ployee representatives on a variety of 
benefit issues, and the company antici
pates amicable conclusions of those dis
cussions shortly.
NHTSA: Air bags 
can injure kids
WASHINGTON, D.C., Oct. 27 Fed
eral safety regulators are warning that 
air bags can kill children who arent 
wearing seat belts.
The National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration (NHTSA) is investigat
ing the deaths of six children killed in 
crashes in the past three years. Investi
gators are exploring whether the chil
dren, aged 4 to 9, died of head and neck 
injuries caused by inflating air bags.
Investigators think the children may 
have slipped from their front seats when 
the drivers slammed on the brakes and 
an air baginflating at more than 100 
miles an hourforced them against the 
roof or other parts of the interior. None 
of the children was wearing a seat belt, 
the agency believes.
This is unacceptable, said the 
agencys administrator, Ricardo 
Martinez, who is also an emergency phy
sician. We want to understand what 
the problem is and what solutions will 
be. We will work as fast as possible.
NHTSA is scheduled to release a 200- 
page report on the problem, seeking com
ment from automobile and air bag mak
ers, insurers, safety advocates and con
sumers. The agency intends by next 
spring to lay out specific actions, poten
tially including new federal safety rules 
about air bags performance.
We are not going to stick our heads in 
the sand and say air bags have no ad
verse effects, Martinez said.
NHTSA officials stressed that air bags 
perform superbly overall. The devices 
are estimated to have saved more than 
900 lives since auto makers began in
stalling them in the late 1980s.
More than 15 million vehicles are 
equipped with air bags on both the driver 
and passenger sides. By law, all new
cars and trucks must have dual air t 
by the 1999 model year.
The agency knows of 25 deaths related 
to air bag deployments. The six under 
scrutiny now are of special concern 
cause they involve small children, and 
because they involve crashes at speeds 
of under 20 miles an hour  which the 
children might have otherwise survived
Adding urgency are crashes in the 
past three weeks. A 7-year-old girl in 
Maryland and a 5-year-old boy in Utah 
died of injuries suspected to have t 
caused by air bags.
Small children should be seated in the 
rear and always secured by a safety belt, 
safety experts agree. But the penalty 
for not wearing a belt shouldnt be 
ting killed by an air bag, said Charles 
Hurley of the Insurance Institute for 
Highway Safety, an Arlington, Va., re
search group funded by insurers.
Tightrope walker 
clears Yangtze
BEIJING, Oct. 29  Canadian tight
rope walker Jay Cochrane walked 2,i 
feet along a cable a quarter-mile above 
Chinas Yangtze River Saturday.
Cochrane had no safety net or harness 
as he walked 1,350 feet above the river 
in southwestern Qutang province.
To me it was just another day at the 
office, but a bigger office, the 51-yearold Cochrane told The Associated Press,
Cochrane  a frequent performer 
Kennywood Park, just south of Pitts
burgh  told the wire service that al
though others have done longer tight
rope walks and at higher altitudes, 
one had walked such a distance that 
high up.
The AP reported that Cochranes planinclude a walk above Pittsburgh next 
summer, and that hes trying to arrange 
a walk across Niagara Falls.
Cochrane has been tightrope-walking 
since 1971, when he walked a rope 40 
feet above downtown Toronto, his home
town. He began learning the skill as a 
circus performer when he was 14.
Gray gives way in 
Wall St. Journal
NEW YORK, Oct. 23 (DJ)  In a 
striking break with its traditional for
mat, The Wall Street Journal began 
printing four-color advertising last week
However, there currently are no plans 
to employ color in the Journal's daily 
news and editorial columns.
This four-color facility is an exciting 
new option for Wall Street Journal ad
vertisers, said Paul Atkinson, vice presi
dent, advertising for the Journal.
Four-color advertising has been avail
able in the overseas editions of the Jour
nal for several years.
The U.S. editions new color capability 
results from a $65 million investment in 
new press equipment and prepress tech
nology.
Four-Day Forecast
MondayIncreasing clouds by 
nightfall, with a 40 
percent chance of 
showers. High near 
55, low 40.
Tuesday
Drizzle and down
pours dominate; high 
near 50, evening low 
near freezing.
WednesdayRain likely, but 
temperatures get 
slightly warmer. High 
in the upper 60s, low 
in the mid-40s.
ThursdayMore clouds and 
gloom  60 percent 
chance of rain. High 
in mid-50s.
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, October 30,
1945: Wartime constraints were 
still taking their toll  in this 
case, on the Tartan football squad.
It has been a source of increas
ing annoyance to this staff that 
numbers of freshmen have been 
sounding off with very searching 
questions about Techs little foot
ball team that isnt here, said 
one story in The Carnegie Tar
tan. Such questions reveal an 
empty place in the hearts of these 
frosh which should be occupied 
by a deep sense of faith and trust 
in their Alma Mater.
It was all a matter of principle 
and perspective, concluded the 
writer. Next year  yes! But 
right now, ambition must wait on 
honor.
25 YEARS AGO, October 29,
1970: U.S. Senator Ralph Yar
borough came to Skibos Wherrett 
Room to speak to interested CMU students.
The Tartan said he was con- volume 67, Number i 
cemed with conservation, pollu
tion, and consumer affairs, and
A student panel of six ques
tioned the Senator on topics rang
ing from student disorders to the 
oil depletion allowance, the pa
per reported.
The speech was sponsored by 
the Office for Operations in Po
litical Systems (OOPS).
. 10 YEARS AGO, October 29, 
1985: An entirely different kind 
of speaker was on campus fifteen 
years later when author Kurt 
Vonnegut came to town. The Tar
tan called his lecture bizarre, 
controversial, and laugh-filled, 
which some might say applies to 
just about any of Vonneguts 
works.
The world-renowned author,
known for such books as Break
fast of Champions, Player Piano, 
and Slaughterhouse Five, spoke 
about his negative feelings on 
automation, the Hippocratic 
Oath, and book-burning, said the 
paper. Highlights included 
[Vonneguts] coupling the pat
terns of Cinderella and Hamlet to 
show how life is not a story.
At the time, Vonnegut was 
working on Galapagos, a book 
about humans evolving into seal
like creatures over a period of a 
million years.
FIVE YEARS AGO, October 
29, 1990: Check-cashing stores 
advertise, No ID? No problem, 
but if you were on the CMU cam
pus without ID five years ago 
today, you were in big trouble.
Thieves broke into the card of
fice in Skibo Hall and made oil 
with all the equipment needed to 
make University IDs, including 
the camera, trimmer, laminator, 
and magnetic encoder.
Over the next few days or so, 
flashing your CMU ID may not 
be enough... to admit students to 
dorms and dining, reported The 
Tartan. Students had to provide 
other positive proof of ID, includ
ing drivers licenses, at libraries 
and computer clusters, and also 
had to sign receipts.
Compiled by 
LAUREN HEINZ 
& JASON TOGYE1!
? ? ? 
EXTRA
THETARTAN
? ? ? 
EXTRA
Wednesday, September 6, l?i7
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
called him a liberal Senator from 
a conservative state, Texas.
The Tartan will celebrate its 90th anniversary in 1996. The theme for the celebration is 90 years
excellence in print. As homely as it may seem, this was the papers flag in September of 1967.11 
appeared on a special extra printed for freshmen.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  30 October 19953
Office of the Future slated for completion next year
WORKPLACE, from page 1
of life is completely unsustainable. Other countries say, why should they pay 
more for less quality, if the U.S. can pay cheaper prices for higher quality. 
According to the team, the project will never be finished and will give an 
edge to students at CMU, because no other school has a place like it.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall, built in 1904, was renovated in 1913 and 
again in 1963. Besides the CBPD, it is home to some architecture faculty and 
second- and third-year architecture students. The Intelligent Workplace will 
thus be central to about half of the faculty and staff in the department of 
architecture.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
just three names land on ballot
ELECTION, from page 1
jority of the senators would like to see 
more people on the ballot and more people 
taking an interest, but it was a mistake, 
and were going to have to deal with 
that.
Gonzlez said that he thinks Senate 
should have extended the deadline, but 
that the by-laws cant be suspended ev
ery time Senate makes a mistake.
That isnt the way to correct them. I 
mean, what if Congress made a mistake 
and just decided to suspend the .Consti
tution for a few days? said Gonzlez. I 
dont think that that would leave us 
feeling very good about the United States 
government.
However, we are in the process right 
now of fixing the rules, and this defi
nitely wont happen again, he said. We 
will learn from our mistakes.
Mielke said the decision by ExComm
not to extend the deadline was a difficult 
one.
During the ExComm meeting we 
weighed the various concerns and we 
reached, via a general consensus, a valuemaximizing solution, he said. We were 
faced with the option of, do we extend 
the deadline so that we can have more 
people on the ballot, or do we follow our 
own rules that we set for ourselves?
This is definitely going to be one of 
the lower turnout years for elections, 
said Coster. Turnout for Senate elec
tions in recent years has been under 15 
percent, and dropped to just 6.5 percent 
of the eligible student body last semes
ter.
Elections will be held on Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Friday in front of Doherty 
Hall. Senate is urging students inter
ested in running to conduct write-in 
campaigns.
Corrections/Clarifications...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, 
contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Lauren Heinz at 268-2111.
Public servant, former 
professor dies at 92
Donald C. Stone, former professor and director of the 
Coalition to Improve Management in State and Local Gov
ernment in the H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and 
Management, died October 19 in Indianapolis. He was 92.
Stone was a member of the Heinz School faculty for more 
than 15 years until his retirement in 1993 at the age of 90.
Stone was also a giant in the field of public administration, 
with more than 60 years of public service, . He was a key 
adviser in the administrations of Presidents Franklin D. 
Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman. Stone helped establish the 
United Nations and later was the director of administration 
for the Marshall Plan, the U.S. Governments $5 billion 
program to provide economic aid to Europe following World 
War II.
Prior to World War II, Stone helped establish the nations 
War Production Board, the Office of Price Administration 
and the Foreign Economic Administration, agencies aimed at 
aiding the war effort. In addition, Stone helped create the 
Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner to the U.S. Cen
tral Intelligence Agency.
He began his public service career as assistant to the city 
manager in Cincinnati from 1926 to 1928. In that position, he 
created a system of crime reporting that was later adopted as 
the Uniform Crime Reporting Program for the United States. 
Those statistics are still published annually by the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation.
He came to the University of Pittsburgh in 1957 after four 
years as president of Springfield (Mass.) College. He was also 
founder and first dean of Pitts Graduate School of Public and 
International Affairs.
Stone earned a bachelors degree in 1925 from Colgate 
University and a masters degree in 1926 from Syracuse 
University. He studied government and public law from 1928 
to 1930 at Columbia University.
Don Stone was the epitome of the golden era of public 
administration, when there was a whole class of professional 
public administrators who were nonpartisan and who served 
through changes in presidents and executives, said Profes
sor Alfred Blumstein of the Heinz School.
He was one of the last of those great administrators who 
made sure government worked right, Blumstein said. He 
was a major innovator. There was no aspect of public admin
istration that was outside his realm. He was totally immersed 
in making the world a better place, right to the very end.
Stone, a Cleveland native, is survived by his wife, Alice; 
three daughters, a son, a brother, and six grandchildren.
The family said memorial contributions may be sent to any 
of the following organizations: Common Cause, 2030 M Street,
courtesy Heinz School public relations
Donald Stone, above, was the epitome of the golden era of 
public administration, said professor Alfred Blumstein.
NW, Washington, D.C. 20036; The Donald C. Stone Scholar
ship Fund, Christian Theological Seminary, 1000 West 42nd 
Street, Indianapolis, IN 46208; or the American Society of 
Public Administration, Donald C. Stone Fund, 1120 G Street 
NW, Washington, D.C. 20005.
Planning gets underway 
for H&SS, MCS job fair
A job fair designed for H&SS and MCS students is getting 
closer to reality.
Last Wednesday, MCS and H&SS students and faculty and 
other interested parties met to discuss the possibility of a' 
liberal arts opportunities conference. Among those in atten
dance were Student Government President Gina Schuyler, 
Student Senate Chair Kami White, Steve Pajewski of the 
H&SS Academic Advisory Center, and Eric Grotzinger, asso
ciate dean of MCS. Edward LoPresti, chair of this years 
Technical Opportunities Conference, was also on hand.
Paul Marcelin of the H&SS student advisory council said 
that an MCS and H&SS job fair has been under discussion for 
at least a year. There was a sentiment that not enough was 
being done in career placement and career assistance for 
H&SS students, he said. While there was interest last year, 
he said the meeting was the first concrete step.
Marcelin added that a recent Tartan editorial calling for 
such a fair seemed somewhat negative because it implied 
nothing was being done.
The job fair, which is still in the preliminary stages, is 
tentatively scheduled for sometime next year.
You pulled 83 all-nighters, crammed for 52 finals, 
and drank 3,506 cups of coffee.
Now it all comes 
down to this.
Youre working 
hard to get your 
degree. Now, put 
it to work for 
you. Full-time
positions available in Planning 
and Logistics for graduating
Mail Merge...Shift + Ctrl +M
Pint Setup...
Print...Ctrl + P ;
ExitCtri + Q
BSIA students 
at the following 
locations:
Santa Clara & 
Sacramento,
CA., Phoenix, AZ., and 
Portland, OR.
Bring your resume and questions to our
Information Session 
on Monday, November 6 at 7:00 pm 
Carnegie Conference Room
inU
ntcl Corporaiiorn equal opportunity employer and fully supports affirmative action practices. Intel also supports a drug-free workplace and requires that all offers of 
employment be contingent on satisfactory pre-employment drug test results. 01995, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Intel and the Intel logo are registered trademarks of Intel Corporation.
The First Freedoms Fund 
and 
The University of Pittsburgh 
School of Law 
Present
Catharine MacKinnon vs. Nat Hentoff
A Debate On
PORNOGRAPHY 
AND THE 
FIRST AMENDMENT
6:00 p.m., Monday, November 6, 1995 
University of Pittsburgh, School of Law 
Teplitz Courtroom 
Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15260
Recommended Donation 
$2.00 for Students 
$5.00 for Non-students
Tickets sold at the door 
or
by mail to the First Freedoms Fund 
P.O. Box 22385 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
For Additional Details Call (412) 261-6781

---------------------------------------------------

S A FAST GROWING consultancy, MGI has created a reputation for 
high quality work and strong client satisfaction. We are looking for 
committed, focused and accomplished graduating seniors at Carnegie 
Mellon University with an interest in business-oriented technology 
consulting. Candidates must be willing to hit the ground running 
and relish immediate client exposure. As a Consultant with MGI, you will be 
involved in the entire consulting lifecycle, from marketing to project delivery. 
Interpersonal and analytical skills are critical. Minimum 3.4/4.0 GPA required, along 
with meaningful internships and/or part-time work experience.
Our four year old firm concentrates on a Fortune 1000 client base at a national 
level; primarily in financial services (retail banking and P&C insurance), utilities, 
government and healthcare organizations.
Our firm also has a fully separate ventures group which concentrates on investing in 
and growing small emerging enterprises.
If you are interested in a challenging career in technology consulting, please come 
visit us while we are on campus for our information session on Thursday,
November 2nd, from 7:00 to 9:00 PM at the Student Center, Room 207. 
Refreshments will be served. Also, dont forget to send in your resume for our first 
round interviews scheduled for Friday, November 3rd.
Please join us for 
our information 
session, where you 
can hear all about a 
challenging 
consulting career 
with MGI.
Riverfront Pinza901 East Byrd Street, Stute 1340 * Richmond, VA 23219 
Tel: 804-775-8500 Bax: 804-775-8539
H
Information Session 
Thursday, 
November!, 1995 
7:00 to 9:00p.m. 
Student Center, 
Rootn 207
STUDE N.AH 
oEuUsTueD
Fiiday, 
November 31995 Student Centn; Rooms 205 &206
Information
Technology
Consulting
Geneml Management 
Consulting
Venture Investing & 
Management

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  30 October 19955
GSIA professor reflects on lifetime of civil rights work, teaching
KERR, frm Page 1stay with the anti-trust division 
for eight years.
In 1956, Kerr came to Pitts
burgh to work as chief counsel for 
anti-trust law for Westinghouse 
Electric [WE].
They wanted someone who 
knew something about anti-trust 
law, he said.*The government 
didnt pay much. My wife and I 
had four children then. It was an 
administrative position. So, I 
came to work for them.
Kerr joined the company as it 
and other manufacturers were 
under federal scrutiny for alleged 
price-fixing. He guided the com
pany through the controversy, 
and made contacts that would 
prove significant.
In preparing published mate
rial and presenting material for 
[Westinghouses] anti-trust pre
vention policy, I contacted the 
head of the Economics Depart
ment at Carnegie Tech, who in
troduced me to the great, found
ing dean of GSIA, [Dr. George] 
Bach, said Kerr.
Several GSIA faculty members 
consulted with Kerr on the anti
trust policy, and he was asked if 
he would like to join the faculty 
as a part-time instructor.
I found that I enjoyed it, he 
said.
After eight years at WE, Kerr, 
still teaching part-time at CIT, 
joined a downtown law firm and 
began some of his most striking 
work in constitutional law. 
Among his clients were students 
who were about to be drafted to 
fight in Vietnam.
The draft was World War II 
law, said Kerr. The Vietnam 
war was much different, and there 
was an evolution in public opin
ion.
Much of his work came in help
ing students navigate through a 
confusing and difficult draft board 
process that often denied them 
due process. Kerr said that the 
more than4,000 community draft 
boards were often poorly trained.
The rules kept changing with 
respect to college students and 
graduate students,he said. One
year, theyd say you could finish 
the semester and then go. The 
next year, theyd say you could 
finish your degree and then go.
Right here in this room, every
day, we had two, three, or four 
Carnegie Tech students wanting 
to know about their status, he 
said. These werent all conscien
tious objectors  some of them 
just wanted help.
He was also legal counsel to 
Point Park College, and would 
often find a line of students there 
each day as well needing proce
dural advice. For 10 years, we 
had a line up here every morning 
when I came back from class, he 
said.
If you applied for a license to 
haul steel from Pittsburgh to 
Cleveland, in your hearing, you 
had all kinds of recognized due 
process protection, said Kerr. If 
you went to a draft board, you 
had none of that.
Kerr also helped many students 
who had unfair or improper hear
ings.
They were not allowed to have
counsel, he said. Some of [the 
draft boards] didnt even allow 
you to bring your mother. They 
didnt have any record of what 
they did. They wouldnt give any 
reasons.
But as his involvement deep
ened, his law partners began to 
get uncomfortable with his vol
unteer work.
As a representative of the 
ACLU, I appeared more than once 
on TV and in the newspapers, 
criticizing U.S. involvement in 
Vietnam, said Kerr. One of [the 
firms] clients was a large Pitts
burgh bank that complained 
about this big mouth that was 
criticizing the war, and they asked 
me to stop talking about it.
I said I didnt want to have my 
speech abridged, he said. Thus, 
out of a job and trying to provide 
for a family, Kerr approached 
GSIA Dean Richard Cyert to see 
if he knew of any corporations 
that were looking for a lawyer.
Instead, Cyert offered him a 
full-time faculty position. Ive 
been here ever since, Kerr said,
and Ive been delighted with it.
Kerr continued his work with 
the ACLU as the civil-rights 
movement gained strength in the 
1960s. His work included repre
senting and counseling AfricanAmericans fighting civil liberties 
violations as well as women work
ing for gender enuity. Among his 
work that got the most national 
attention  although it seems 
tame now  was convincing 
Pittsburghs major newspaper to 
stop printing discriminatory hel p 
wanted ads.
People dont believe it any
more, but up until 1967, in the 
newspaper, they had, help 
wantedmale and help wanted
 female,  said Kerr. His work 
was a small but significant step 
towards guaranteeing men and 
women the right to compete for 
the same jobs.
Kerrs five adult children have 
landed in a variety of careers. His 
son David is a dealer of fine and 
rare books. One daughter, 
Marian, is teaching in a college 
English department. Another
daughter, Ellen, is a social worker 
with Pittsburgh Action Against 
Rape. A third daughter, Sarah, is 
an attorney in New York City. 
And his son Michael is executive 
secretary to U.S. Secretary of 
Labor Robert Reich.
One payoff for my wife and I is 
that my children participated 
with us in talking about these 
issues, said Kerr. Our break
fast table was a civil liberties 
seminar for 20 years.
Kerr said that he intends to 
continue his civil liberties work 
and teaching full-time, but would 
also like to begin writing about 
some of his work to guarantee 
due process in the Selective Ser
vice system.
Im doing less litigation, but 
we here who are accounting pro
fessors are expected to spend 
about 20 percent of our time in 
the real world so that were not 
dead, were not atrophied, he 
said.
Kerr also continues to advise 
corporate attorneys, including 
many of his former students.
Crime and Incident Report
10/10 PHONE HARASSMENT, 2:30 
am. An officer took a report of harass
ment by communication from a stu
dent. She stated that she had received a 
phone call from someone she initially 
thought she recognized. He asked her 
repeatedly Do you know what I would 
do to you if I were there? When she 
asked him how his game had been, he 
responded, Im not the person you think 
I am. Then she hung up.
10/11 VANDALISM , 3:50 am. While 
exiting Warner Hall, an officer observed 
a message written in chalk in front of 
the door that said Were here, were 
queer, get used to it. The officer spoke 
with two students, who said they were 
writingthe messages for National Com
ing Out Day. The officer told the stu
dents if they wrote any further mes
sages they would be cited for vandal
ism.
10/11 FENCE VANDALISM , 10:46 
pm. Officers received numerous com
plaints of individuals peeling the paint 
off the fence. Two students were issued 
vandalism citations by the four resp onding officers.
10/13 FLAG THEFT, 3:27 am. An 
officer radioed in that three males had 
just stolen the U.S.M.C. flag from the 
ROTC Homecoming tent. One suspect, 
who was being chased by the person 
who had been sleeping in the tent, was 
caught by a second officer. The second 
suspect, who was being chased by a 
third officer, was caught by a fourth 
officer by the Resnik steps. The third
student, who had the flag, got away. The 
students who were detained called an
other student, and told him they needed 
the flag by 6 am. He told them he didnt 
have a flag. The flag was later found on 
Frew Street. The students who had been 
detained were issued citations for theft, 
receiving stolen property, conspiracy, 
and underage drinking.
10/14 THEFT ,8:37 pm. Two officers 
on routine patrol observed five people 
walking down the Cut toward Forbes 
Ave; three of them were carrying pump
kins. They said an older man by the 
tents had said they could have them. 
The officers made the students carry the 
pumpkins back to the tent, and issued 
them internal citations. '
10/15 LEWDNESS, 1:31 am. While 
patrolling the fraternity quad, officers 
observed a fraternity brother pull down 
his roommates pants. Both students 
were issued citations for disorderly con
duct and open lewdness.
10/16 RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT, 3:02 pm. Two officers responded 
to the eighth floor of Wean Hall because 
of a report of students dropping objects 
down the stairwell known as Architects 
Leap.
The officers found three students who 
admitted to dropping a large rubberband ball down the stairwell to see it 
bounce. The students said there was 
another student on the third floor who 
was making sure no one was in the way. 
The officer only issued citations to the 
students on the eighth floor.
10/16 DRIVE-BY ASSAULT, 10:09 
pm. A CMU student was jogging east on 
Schenley Drive when he was struck in 
the back by a pumpkin thrown from a 
passing car. The student immediately 
fell to the ground, and was unable to get 
a good description of the vehicle. The 
student refused medical attention.
10/17 FAKE PERMIT, 2:24 pm. While 
patrolling the Morewood Gardens park
ing area, an officer discovered a fake 
parking permit. The vehicle was towed, 
and a citation was issued.
10/19 VANDALISM, 8:00 am. The 
Campus Police were contacted and inr 
formed that the shuttle buses in front of 
Morewood gardens had been egged. The 
buses had only been egged on the sides 
facing the fraternity quad. This often 
occurs after a Wednesday night, or a 
weekend.
10/19 FAILURE TO EVACUATE,
7:36 pm. While conducting a fire drill at 
Boss and McGill Halls, an officer saw a 
student look out his window, and- then 
lie down in bed. He was issued a citation. 
Twenty minutes later, while conducting 
a fire drill at Welch Hall, three more 
students were issued citations for not 
evacuating.
10/20 INTOXICATED FEMALE,
11:00 pm. An officer was dispatched to 
Morewood Gardens B-Tower to attend 
to an intoxicated female.
The officer found the student sitting in 
front of the toilet. She told the officer 
that she drank six shots of tequila. She
told the medics that she had had 10 
double shots of tequila. The student was 
taken to Presbyterian-University Hos
pital.
10/26 ASSAULT, 10:31 am. An officer 
was dispatched to the gym in response to 
an assault on a CMU coach.
A professor had grabbed the coach 
around the neck and pushed him against 
the stage in the main gym. The coach 
had previously had an argument with 
the professor.
The coach was walking down the stairs 
in to the main gym when the actor saw 
him. The actor said Now I have you 
alone, grabbed the coach, and hit him. 
An officer found the actor and issued 
him a citation. The coach was taken to 
the Presbyterian-University Hospital.
The Tartan prints the Crime and Inci
dent Report under the following guide
lines:
 Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior to 
release.
 Only three people on The Tartan staff 
see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the 
News editor, and the staffwriter who 
types the report.
 All personal names of complaints, 
victims, and suspect and fraternity names 
are omitted from the printed report. Eth
nic descriptions and other personal de
tails are given only in the context of a 
complete description.
 Not' every incident that occurs on 
campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RICK RIKOSKI
Quacky, the Tartan news duck, says:
We need writers and an
li assistant news editor!
For details, call Jason at
? X0-2111!
Vs- jUv "-y?Feathers and webbedfeet optional.
5^----
The HUB has new hours beginning 
Monday, November 6th!
Monday 8:30 ju s thrr eu
Tuesday 11:00 ju s thrr eu
Wednesday 8:30 ju n ahrr ml
Thursday 8:30 ju s thrr eu
Friday 8:30 ju s thrr eu
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Sunday

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
ONCE /(Alti, laAdrma lry:ar 
CC:i nt.ckpr oM:hThN:aTyfg 
RMr ,S atBoF lrM:a.FLXv v
Carnegie Mellon University30 October 1995
Student Senate must 
get its act together
CANDIDATEA^
CHpipATEB
I RO
THEARNC
KUSE
'VrWAIT, LE t'S 
QNT/ffllM-j^
The more things change, the 
more they stay the same. Once 
again, Student Senate has done 
such a fine job of publicizing their 
elections that there are three, 
count em three, official names on 
this semesters ballot.
Of course, this is nothing new 
for Student Senate. For the past 
five years, getting more than a 
handful of names on the ballot 
has been a chore for Senate; se
curing more than a six percent 
turnout at elections has been a 
challenge. Its time Senate re
vamped their recruitment meth
ods and took a leadership role in 
the more political and controver
sial debates affecting this cam
pus.
Senate could stand to take a 
look at two other organizations 
for lessons on making an impact. 
One is the Student Dormitory 
Council (SDC), which has done a 
commendable job in recent weeks 
promoting awareness, culminat
ing with SDC Day last Wednes
day. The other is the Faculty Sen
ate, whose resolutions are tar
geted at making a change on cam
pus and taking stands on issues
 such as the bboard controversy 
that concern CMUs wider com
munity.
The proliferation of political is
sues this semester  Marty 
Rimm and the Internet, the talk 
by Leonard Weinglass, Mumia 
Abu-Jamals lawyer and the kill
ing of Jonny Gammage by the 
Brentwood P.D.  provides a 
number of opportunities to take a 
more active role in campus poli
tics. Instead of sleeping through 
their meetings and stumbling over 
by-laws, Senators could be lead
ing the campus through these po
lemic debates.
Senates main responsibility 
now is allocating budget funds to 
student organizations and form
ing special committees  this is 
what they are known for. If Sen
ate assumed less of an accounting 
role and more of a campus leader
ship role, they might broaden their 
reputation and get more than 
three candidates on the ballot.
Of course, Senate is not entirely 
to blame for the lack of participa
tion in elections. The student body 
of CMU is hardly known for its 
political front or campus spirit. 
Students should realize that they 
can have a hand in what goes on 
at CMU, but they have to get up 
off their collective butt to do it.
Student Senates new slogan is 
working together, we get things 
done. If Senate, and the student 
body, actually tried to work to
gether, we could indeed get things 
done. But the way things are now 
with three names on the ballot, 
an apolitical Senate group and 
an apathetic student body, we 
have a long way to go.
Firstly, Senate needs to be more 
visible on campus. The current 
P.R. chair has made an attempt 
to publicize Senates function but 
a more decisive and pervasive 
voice is needed. Senate needs to 
organize more campus socials and 
find representatives who give di
rection to the student body.
Secondly, Senate needs to pub
licize itself as more than a group 
that allocates budgets. They need 
to take an active role in the mul
titude of political issues occur
ring on and around campus. If 
Senate embraces an active and 
public leadership role, more than 
three students might be inclined 
to put their names on the election 
ballot.
Letters to the Editor
Irony found in column disparity
i 5B3to tht Editor
force sentiment. Since it's not a blood
bath out there for white upper-class 
males, the reasoning goes, how can any
one be concerned with the proliferation 
of guns? Obviously, the author has not 
talked to children in the community. I 
was told this week by a fifth grader, You 
grown-ups had it easy. Now people bring 
guns to school, and start fights, and I'm 
afraid all day.
What would be considered cause 
enough for concern, to have the pro-gun 
lobby stop hiding behind ancient Consti
tution (the document that also allowed 
slavery) while ignoring the words well 
regulated? What will end, or even tem
per, this worship of and obsession with 
metal manhood magnifiers?
Tom Harper
Activities enhance 
student body quality
CMU students dont actively 
pursue anything. They think the 
Universitys name will carry 
them, said the representative 
from Andersen Consulting at last 
Thursdays Business Opportuni
ties Conference. Ouch. But the 
comments made by the man from 
Andersen Consulting(a Carnegie 
Mellon graduate) make all sorts 
of sense when one considers the 
type of student that CMU, a re
search university, is known for 
graduating.
Carnegie Mellon is infamous for 
taking successful high school 
graduates, minds open to all the 
world has to offer, and turning 
them into self-involved engineers, 
scientists, artists and business 
people. Other top-ranked univer
sities turn out societies leaders 
and people who will make their 
contribution, not only within their 
chosen academic field, but in life. 
Those who come to CMU looking 
to grow as a person, not just as an 
academic, tend to become disap
pointed rather quickly. CMU has 
the lowest freshman retention 
rate amongst the top 25 schools 
because of this over-commitment 
to academics. Students might be 
more committed to CMU if they 
took an interest in the array of 
extra-curricular activities this 
University has to offer.
A student that participates 
meaningfully in a variety of ac
tivities proves his/her interest in 
learning new and different things, 
natural intelligence to succeed in 
a manner of endeavors, and the 
capacity to handle responsibility 
and pressure. The University 
needs to admit more students that 
engage in a diverse amount ac
tivities, contribute toward mak
ing this campus more dynamic 
and make the CMU experience 
more memorable for those who go 
on to graduate. The Office of Ad
missions has the responsibility to 
admit such students.
Extra-curricular activities are 
already given a lot of weight by 
Admissions, but it is crucial that 
the quality and level of participa
tion be weighted more heavily 
than quantity. Many students use 
high school activities as applica
tion/resume fodder and fail to par
ticipate in any meaningful way 
once they get to CMU. This trend 
has plagued this institution for 
some time.
If Carnegie Mellon is ever going 
to change to a place that turns out 
societys leaders from a place that 
turns out societys cogs, it needs 
to start cultivating students with 
broader interests and abilities. It 
is Admissions responsibility to 
recruit students that are commit
ted to bettering the University as 
a wholeit will make everyones 
college experience more cohesive 
and fulfilling.
Editor:
The juxtaposition of 
columns lastweek was 
sadly ironic. With Lett! tO 
great loss we mark the the Editor 
passing of activist and 
humanist Glenn Grodin, a person who 
dedicated his life to others. I knew Glenn 
through our work on the board of Green 
Acres Animal Sanctuary, among other 
activities. In his work for peace, for the 
homeless, for the advancement of human
ity, and for the rights of the voiceless, he 
was indeed the epitome of the hiehest 
morality. His life brought good to all, and 
his memory enriches those who knew him.
Opposite this tribute was yet another Anne Green
tantrum against any hint of anti-lethal- Modem LaguagesCrude words create hostility
this kind of stuff and sending it out to 
anyone who needs cheering up. Plus, 
reading all of it cheers me up a bit some
times. Theres plenty of stuff in my pub
lic archives directory. Take a look.
But the more I thought about her ap
preciation, the more I thought about 
how life isnt that bad. Sure, my grades 
arent the greatest, but they are improv
ing. I do have friends. I am likable. I can 
write good stuff. It doesnt matter what 
this illness is or what some witch tells me 
about myself. Its hard to overcome, but 
I shouldnt dwell on such things.
A while ago, someone told me I didnt 
give myself enough credit. Its funny 
how I never understood that, until now. 
Im not in this school for nothing, thats 
a given. I do, however, have an illness 
and a tendency to withdraw into myself. 
Some people think its a tremendous ef
fort of will to try and reach out and to get 
involved in activities. And I do have 
friends here who can help me. Maybe Ive 
confused feeling proud of myself with 
pride as in one of the seven deadly sins 
or something like that.
After all, guys arent supposed to talk 
about their feelings until theyve com
mitted a few crimes. So to all my friends 
out there who have put up with me over 
these few years, thanks.
And to you-know-who who wrote me, 
thanks. Youve helped me come to some 
realizations about myself and life in gen
eral. And also, f*.** you.
Just the other day I learned that some
one who went to school with me a long 
time ago was a student here. Great, I 
thought. Ive always had trouble meeting 
new people herehopefully shell remem
ber me. She did. However, today she sent 
me a piece of mail with two words in it.
F*** you.
Naturally, I was quite crushed. No, Im 
not the sort of guy whose hormones run 
his life and wants to hit on all my female 
friends my age. I have some VERY good 
female friends here, and I sincerely thank 
Jen, Monica, Holly, Janice, Lauren, Eileen, 
Kathy, Sabeena, and all the rest. For 
putting,up with me, they all deserve a 
gold medal.
When this piece of mail came, I was sick 
in bed. Im on a new medication, and 
sometimes it makes life hell. But it should 
abate soon, and I should be back in class. 
Yet in this mire those two words cut me 
like a Ginsu. I felt down for most of the 
rest of the day.
Its just that Ive been fighting depres
sion for almost nineteen years. I wonder 
what was her motivation for writing that. 
She sure seemed nice in schoolshe even 
remembered me. I sent her a humorous 
mail about the rules of manhood  noth
ing offensive. You know, things like never 
stopping for directions when with a 
woman, watching any and all sports play
offs, never confessing to not knowing any
thing about a cars engine... I like archiving
Tom Harper, junior technical writing 
major, is now in search of parties when
ever he finishes his homework. Also his 
21st birthday is coming up, so wish him 
a happy birthday.Columnist introduces opinions
Douglas Howe
Win free sex!
Youre in college .Your horomones are 
raging. You want to experiment. You want 
to be free to sow your wild oats across the 
plains, but in this day and age, youre just 
too reluctant. Well, nows your chance. 
You can live out your wildest and most 
perverse fantasies in the privacy of your 
own bedroom. All you need is the will, the 
know-how, the appropriate organs, and 
the toll-free number. Our employees are 
trained, skilled, cleansed professionals 
from all walks of life, ready for your spe
cial time and tenderness. There is no 
catch. No strings attached (unless de
sired). This contest has been approved by 
the Pennsly vania State Council for Sexual 
Outlets and is produced in conjunction 
with the CMU Festival for Scottish Ap
preciation. Put down that magazine, take 
your free hand, and dial that number. I 
repeat: this is no joke. Call now! Well, 
okay, maybe its a little bit of a joke. I like 
to think of it more as a literary device used 
to attract the unsuspecting reader into 
the deep recesses of double speak and 
word manipulation. Theyre the three most 
eye-catching words in the English lan
guage. Figured I might as well put them
together and see what happens.
As Im sure youve guessed, Im new. 
And now that Ive used my trump card 
with the first sentance, I thought the 
best way to start an opinion column is to 
let you know what I think.
And since Im a little late getting 
started, I figured I should just cut the 
crap and lay it on the line. Bear with me.
Life and culture as we know it are 
barely holding on by a string. You cant 
trust anybody. Nothing is good for you. 
The environment is going to hell. Morals 
are in the toilet. Theres nothing good on 
TV. Hollywood desensitizes us. Art is 
dead. We deny everything. We owe more 
than we make. Money and appearance 
run the show. Technology is going hay
wire. Violence is a normal occurrence. 
Disease is killing everybody. Nobodys 
right, everybodys wrong, and for Gods 
sake, O.J. did it.
On a lighter note, I got an A on a paper 
last week, and my roommates mom sent 
us cookies. So I guess life is all right after 
all. Societys been screwing everybody 
pretty much forever. I could focus on the 
negative, but wheres the originality in 
that? Life sucks. Lets get over it and 
move on.
And if anyone still feels betrayed about 
the sex thing, give me a call, but Im not 
promising anything.
Howe is a junior acting major.
Petition faux 
pas explained
STUDENT 
SENATE
By Eduardo Gonzalez
[This is the second in a series of 
columns produced by Student Sen
ate in order to disseminate informa
tion concerning their activities. This 
column will be produced bi-weekly.]
In this weeks column, I will be 
discussing the petition problem in 
Student Senate. According to Sen
ate by-laws, petitions are due two 
weeks prior to elections, which was 
October 18.
Unfortunately, we did not recog
nize October 16th as being mid
semester break. Also, November 1-
3 is the most convenient time for 
Alpha Phi Omega to conduct the 
elections. The lack of advertising 
for petitions was my fault because 
by the time we decided on election 
dates, it was close to mid-semester 
break, and before I knew it, it was a 
week before mid-semester break and 
The Tartan does not print on that 
Monday.
I am truly sorry to the entire cam
pus for not publicizing the petitions 
deadline.
The only thing a candidate can do 
now is to run a write-in campaign, 
which involves your friends just 
writing your name on the ballot.
The Executive Committee of Sen
ate should have realized this prob
lem, but we overlooked it. It is not 
entirely our fault; it is also due to 
the election rules, which are in the 
process of being amended so -that 
this does not happen again.
I know this is not going to solve 
the problem we have now of having 
nobody on the ballot, but we cannot 
suspend the by-laws in order to cor
rect our mistake.
The only solution is to run a writein campaign and to realize for your
self that everyone on the Executive 
Committee is only human, and that 
we also attend CMU and have a 
heavy workload, like everyone else.
We try our best to serve the cam
pus best interests, and sometimes 
we do drop the ball, but our heart is 
still in trying to do what is best for 
the campus community.
We all learn from our mistakes, 
and I and the Executive Committee 
have learned that we have to be 
more aware of certain little details 
because in the future it will impact 
all of us greatly.
The only other thing that might 
be said is that we in the Executive 
Committee apologize and ask for 
the forgiveness of the student body 
in this matter. Rest assured that 
the elections rules will be amended 
and that this mistake will not occur 
again.
And remember that we all make 
mistakes, but working together, we 
get things done.
Any comments or questions'? Please 
email ss2p or me, at eg2h.
Parking  University Center  Greeks  Studen 
[nvolvment0 Student Senate  Athletic Facilit 
Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health 
Dry  Politics  Funding  Football Field 
Student Affairs  Constitution  Construction 
Overcrowding  Contras  Housing  Sororities 
iharities  Gymnasium  Dining Service  Env> 
onmnt -B^cydiijg  Hnmpi^ee  nngre 
BigBird jH&aftre** d^ife^SeV-vGeeks 
Mcdtltt" DrCgs Hrtusic^Mighl^Motrge  Cfltf 
dy  Woody Allen  The Muppets  Mail 
Manure  Advertising  Disco  Crime # ^ 
Nighters  Grant's Sex Life  Ishtar II  Hair 
Mousse  Human Relations  SEI  Presidents 
Search  WRCT  Computers  Your  DC-lOf 
Howdy's Volume  Bill's Hair  Funding  Stu

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  30 October 19957
DDT harmless, useful insecticide, says columnist
Jon Orris
One of the biggest bogey men of 
environmentalists is chemicals, 
especially pesticides. The 
enivronmentalists complain con
stantly about the residues of 
chemicals in the environment, 
even when these residues are 
present only in parts per billion 
and have no hazardous effect on 
man or nature.
This chemophobia has led to 
stringent regulations or even out
right bans on innumerable use
ful chemical products.
There are many examples that 
I could use, but Ill use the most 
famous chemical bogey man, 
DDT. The successful effort to ban 
DDT is responsible more than 
anything else for the rapid growth 
in power of the environmental 
movement.
DDT is probably the most 
falsely-maligned chemical com
pound known to man.
DDT is a pesticide that kills a 
large variety of insects, yet is 
harmless to humans, animals, 
and plants.
Its most important uses his
torically were the control of crop 
pests and disease vectors, at 
which it was spectacularly suc
cessful.
Due to the wide variety of in
sects it is harmful to, it has been 
used as an agricultural pesticide 
with great success, dramatically 
increasing crop yields.
Used as a delousing agent by 
Allied troops in WWII, it elimi
nated deaths due to typhus, which
caused more death in WWI than 
bullets.
The most famous use of DDT 
was mosquito control.
Mosquitoes are the vector for 
malaria, a horrible disease that 
struck, and, thanks to environ
mentalists, still strikes hundreds 
of millions of people each year
and kills several million an- -----
nually.
Large-scale spraying in 
malaria-infested parts of 
the world, begun in the late 
1940s, had an immediate 
and drastic effect on the in
cidence of malaria, decreas
ing the number of annual 
cases in many areas by sev
eral orders of magnitude 
within only a few years. Dr. ^= 
Paul Muller, who perfected 
and patented DDT, was awarded 
the Nobel Prize in Medicine for 
the profound medical importance 
of his work.
Given the usefulness of DDT to 
human life, one might wonder 
why it was banned.
The effectiveness of DDT for 
disease control and crop protec
tion led to some overuse in many 
areas. Despite its harmlessness, 
this pervasiveness of DDT in the 
environment led to alarm.
In the 1960s, Rachel Carson 
published Silent Spring, a hys
terical and grossly inaccurate 
book that birthed the modem en
vironmental movement. It raised 
much concern about the effects of 
DDT on bird populations, stating 
that DDT was leading to wide
spread extinctions. This, despite 
the facc that in some areas where 
DDT had been overused, bird 
populations had skyrocketed due 
to the lack of mosquitoes which
carry diseases lethal to birds. than they would encounter in the 
A number of studies were per- environment show no evidence 
formed to determine the effects of whatsoever of egg shell thinning.
DDT on bird populations. Many 
poor studies were performed that 
alleged that DDT was the cause 
of decreasing populations.
These studies did little more 
than look at declining bird popuMany other contaminants, such 
as lead, mercury, and oil cause 
thinning of shells, but the pres
ence of these chemicals were ig
nored in the studies of anti-DDT 
researchers, and DDT received
The enivronmentalists complain constantly 
about the residues of chemicals in the envi
ronment, even when these residues are 
present in parts per billion and have no haz
ardous effect on man or nature. 
lations in areas where DDT was 
in use and lay the blame for the 
declines on DDT.
Factors such as disease, other 
chemicals, or the activities of the 
researchers themselves were not 
examined.
In many cases, the researchers 
were very intrusive in their data 
collection methods, scaring the 
birds repeatedly during the nest
ing season, and taking numerous 
egg samples.
Little wonder that the popula
tions declined.
Though these studies were de
bunked by better scientists, the 
results got little or no press cov
erage.
The claim that DDT causes egg 
shells to thin is spurious. There 
is no evidence that DDT causes 
the egg shells to thin.
Repeated controlled experi
ments exposing birds to levels of 
DDT hundreds of times greater
all of the blame.
There were also claims that the 
insecticide is a carcinogen. There 
is no evidence to support this 
claim, either. In laboratory ex
periments, DDT caused tumors 
in mice only when they were in
jected with 100,000 times the 
dosage of DDT that they would 
get from a heavily contaminated 
natural environment.
Among the people who were 
exposed to the chemical during 
the years of heaviest usage, there 
is no increase in cancer rates.
In the 1970s, the increasing 
public hysteria about DDT led to 
EPA hearings.
After nine months, the EPA 
concluded that there had been 
some overuse of DDT in some 
areas, but there was no evidence 
whatsoever of environmental 
damage to humans, animals, or 
plants.
In 1972, EPA director William
Ruckelshaus, who hadnt at
tended a single day of the hear
ings, and readily admitted he 
hadnt read the report, banned 
DDT outright.
He has since admitted that his 
decision was politically moti
vated.
Consider what this means. A
------ chemica? of inestimable
value to man, which 
causes no harm to man or 
to the environment, was 
banned by one lone bu
reaucrat who gave in to 
the hysteria of the envi
ronmentalists.
Because ofit, millions of 
people now die yearly who 
would not otherwise have 
died.
I have said before that 
whatever the goals of the envi
ronmental movement, the im
provement of human life is not 
one of them.
Although there was some con
cern with possible ill effects of 
DDT on humans, the primary con
cern of the environmentalists was 
with the effect of DDT on birds.
They have condemned millions 
of human beings to illness, mis
ery, and death, blithely sacrific
ing them in return for the safety, 
imaginary in this case, of ani
mals.
The banning of DDT is one of 
the clearest examples of how the 
values of environmentalists lead 
to the destruction of human life.
Jon Orris is a fourth-year phys
ics major. He enjoys reading and 
raising rhetoric. He welcomes re
plies or comments relating to this 
or any of his other recent col
umns.Shady deals suggested fn possible suicide cover-up
James Stepanek
Again, Im going to 
do something of a re
peat of one of last 
years columns. Its 
not really a repeat, 
however, rather an 
update. You may have heard of a man named Vince 
Foster. He was a Clinton aide who allegedly shot himself 
in Ft. Marcy Park in Virginia. His body was found by an 
anonymous source, and a note described as a suicide 
note was discovered in his office, ripped up in a briefcase. 
He had been a good friend of the Clintons and 
had worked with Hillary in a law firm in Ar
kansas.
These are just- the superficial details. The 
meat is much more interesting. He was in
volved in the recent Whitewater scandal and 
the House travel scandal. His case was declared 
a suicide on discovery. This is not by any means 
a standard police procedure. Normally a dead 
body is assumed to be a homicide until this can 
be disproved. The investigation was handled by 
the park police, and Clintons lawyer prevented bhj 
investigators from reviewing any documents 
from Fosters office.
The case gets even more murky when you look at the 
crime scene and the body. The body was found neatly 
arranged on an incline in the park. His hands were 
resting at his sides with the gun still in them. The 
amount of blood at the crime scene was extremely sparse 
for a head wound. The bullet has not been found (there 
is a search for it currently). Carpet fibers were found all 
over the body, as were blond hairs (neither Foster nor his 
wife have blond hair). The gun was not owned by Foster 
nor any of his associates. No local residences heard the 
report of the gun.
This is a large number of questions for a case which is teristics of Fosters handwriting style and is at best a 
assumed to be closed. Well, assumed closed by the major mediocre forgery. Also, they all expressed opinions of 
media sources at least. There is still a Special Prosecutor the content that it was not in any way characteristic of 
looking into things as well as Senate hearings going on. Of a suicide note. It didnt even mention the word suicourse, from the play this gets in the papers and on TV, cide. This odd content actually supports the forgery 
youd be hard pressed to know this. theory in that a forgery is generally made by adapting
Ofcourse,youmay also ask yourself why such a case full words from samples of the handwriting to be dupliof loose ends, involving the friend of the President, would cated. Finding suicide in a persons correspondence is 
be left to the park police and not the FBI, which is surely not a common occurrence.
a more competent bunch to be conducting investigation? Of course, this conclusion doesnt shock me all too 
In fact, the President quite strongly argues that it was a much, since the circumstances of the letters discovery
were curious, to say the least. Somehow the 
scraps of paper (the note was found torn up  
odd for a suicide note) were missed during Ber
nard Nussbaums (White House council) exami
nation of the briefcase in which he even upended 
it. The note was only found a week later. Also, 
once found, there were no fingerprints on it. Can 
anyone give any credibility to the notion that 
Foster bothered to write the note and then tore 
it up with gloves on? The note was never even 
given over to the FBI for analysis until much 
later, and even then the examination was flawed 
by poor methodology.
suicide in spite of a deluge of questions which dont agree. After watching the relevant hearings one certainly 
Now, for those of you who read all of these points made is left with quite a few questions, 
by me last year, this is the updated portion. Recently, a One also gets the impression that someone is set to 
group of handwriting experts were commissioned to verify take a fall even if more comes out. That fall guy is 
whether the suicide note found in Fosters briefcase was Bernard Nussbaum. This case is looking more like a 
authentic. It was judged against other personal correspon- homicide case with every revealed fact and yet it gets 
dences of his. The experts are: Vincent Scalice, a former essentially no newsplay. Why is this? I dont honestly 
N.Y. Police homicide expert, Reginald Alton, a manuscript know other than a flagrant disregard for journalistic 
expert from Oxford, and Ronald Rice, a private investiga- integrity and blatant favoritism towards the current 
tor who is a noted expert in handwriting verification, administration by the mainstream media.
They, after a careful examination, have all concluded that
the note was a forgery. It does not agree with the charac- James Stepanek is a graduate student in MSE.
Of course, you may also ask yourself 
why such a case full of loose ends ... 
would be left to the park police and not 
the FBI... a more competent bunch to 
be conducting the investigation?
As Satans high holiday 
draws nigh, the demons of 
had luck are about. There is 
little you can do the escape 
their nefarious clutches. 
Therefore, we asked: What 
horrific things happened 
to you in the past few 
weeks?
Dan Bruce 
Sophomore 
Physics
I got my hand stuck in a 
Pringles can.
Stacey Gabor
Senior
MSE
My dog died.
A PERSONS
OPINION
Anni Garibaldi
Freshman
BHA
Jessie McGee
Senior
MechE
I pulled amuscle doing a very Nothing re ally bad happened,
sexy move in ballroom dancing. Go ask someone else.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Ecfitor-in-Chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager........Amit Kar
News Editor...........Jason Togyer
Forum Editor.............John Biggs
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe
..........................Matthew Solltro
Features Co-Eds. Shannon Gibney 
Diversions Editor.... Eric Salzman
Acting Calendar Ed........Sharmila
Venkatasubban 
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Brockett Horne
............................Jennifer Zieserl
Dossier Lit. Eds. Adriane Seibert
...............................Kevin Meehan
Art Co-Eds. ... Francine Gemperle
...........................Gabrlen Symons
Photo Ed......Andrew McDermott
Production Mgr.............Kathy Liu
Systems Manager..........1-Ping Li
Copy Manager............Eric Strauss
Asst. Diversions Ed.....Ena Kahn
Asst. Prod. Mgr. ..Shantanu Rana 
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder 
Acting Pers. Mgr... Brian Curfman
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Matt Ball, Darren Chiappetta,
Chintan Shah
Staffwriters 
Yosef Birnboim, Chris Cannon, 
SteveChamoubl, Carey Clevenger, 
Tricia Davis, Neil Donnely, Gretel 
Gaal, Dan Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, 
Tom Harper, Jason Heinlein, David 
Koran, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Alex 
Lewin, April C. Moate, Angela 
Molloy, Jonmichael L.T. Moy, 
Suzanne Paddock, Sudhir Reddy, 
Rick Rikoski, Rick Simmons, 
James Stepanek, Jessica Strelitz, 
Paul Tabachneck, Bill Vandeimark, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Andrew Wang, 
Susan Watson, Heather Zlndle
Art
Mark Eggert, Karri Plotkin, Ryan 
Rhoades, Damon Wong
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Hlromi 
Hasegawa, Robert Slater, Dave 
White, Daniel Yauger, Mike Yeh, 
S. Hyun Yim
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Jaroslav 
Delapedraja, Josh Freeman, 
Michael Howard, Sandy Lli, 
Gustavo Sganzerla, Maria 
Valenti, Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Elias Fallon, Scott Hess, Helen 
Huang, Carla Sereny
Production 
Shiv Dewan, Lisa Don, Heather 
Keith, Jennifer Li, Lester Manzano, 
Elizabeth Neuman, Shantanu Rana
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee Cardelli, Mlmi 
Cheng, Ivor Clarke, Madhav 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Win
ter Mason, Victor Ortega, 
Catherine Senderling, M. J. Wil
son, Elizabeth Zambelli
Business 
Lin Dai, Patricia DiGiuseppi,
Stephen Hsu
Junior Staff 
Kaori Aoyama, Diana Bartolotta, 
Wanching Cheng, Lome Colon, 
Annemarie Devine, Ryan Donovan, 
Alexandra Grundeman, Hanjay Kim, 
Jay Miolla, Dizzy Murphy, Kenneth 
Namkung, Kyle Oppenheim, Dan 
Rosenberg, Minh Tran, Jillian 
Watkins, Aaron Weisberg, Bradley 
Zimmerman
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the University community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorial* appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. Tho Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Lottors to tho Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, members of the University community. A letter Intended for publication must be signed and include the writer's address and phone number (or verification. Names may be withheld upon request. Tho Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 500 words. Tho Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright 0 1995 by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: Student Center Room 104 Phone: (412) 268-2111Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegle Mellon University/Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890 Funded in part by your Activities Fee.All rights reserved.Library of Congress ISSN tt: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Want to know what it's like to...
...implement a 
multimedia Virtual 
Bank Branch for the UKbased Nationwide 
Building Society?
Ask us.... Were Doing it!logo here
Equal Opportunity Employer
V&ftwriKfr The- Pe,r-{j&d Pizza/
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
Now hiring.
Experienced pizza makers needed.682-7272
PAPA
We accept VISA and MASTERCARD.
"T
One 16" Extra 
Large One Topping
$7
95
+ Tax
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Two 14" Large 
One Topping
$11
98
+ Tax
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
10"0ne Topping 
& 2 Cokes
$5
99
._L
(Mon. - Thurs. 11 am-4pm, 9pm-close) 
Additional toppings $.70 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
One 14" Large 
One Topping & An 
Order of Breadsticks 
JMT99
11
+ Tax
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating storesJ
Interested in TRILOGY?JUST DROP IT.
If the idea of unlimited potential for financial success coupled with bleeding-edge, patented 
technology excites you, drop your resume at the career center to sign up for Trilogys prescreened 
interviews. We are the nations fastest growing software company, dramatically changing the 
way products are bought and sold. Our patented technology enables corporations to achieve new 
levels of profitability, customer satisfaction and competitive advantage. Fortune 500 companies, 
including AT&T, Hewlett-Packard and Boeing, have embraced our software to drive their sales 
re-engineering initiatives.
Ranked one of Apartmens 25 Coolest Companies, Trilogy offers recent college graduates a level 
of responsibility that can not be matched. With this responsibility comes hard work, but it also 
brings big rewards. If you have the intelligence and drive to succeed in one of the most aggressive 
environments in the high tech industry, then you belong at Trilogy.
Nowital cmesodwsnh
November 29th 
Resume drop ends November 3rd
TRILOGY
ONLY the BEST
6034 West Courtyard Drive -Austin, Texas 78730 
512. 794.5900 ext. 400  www.trilogy.com

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  30 October 1995
NFL receives mid-season report card
Gridiron Grapevine
by Steve Charnoubi
I Since the NFL is in the middle 
of its regular season, and CMU 
just handed out mid-semester 
grades, I was in the mood to give 
out my own mid-season report 
card on NFL teams.
AFC East, C+
Buffalo Bills, A: Buffalo is 
undefeated at home this year and 
on top of the AFC East. Theyre 
looking like the team that made 
it to four straight Super Bowls.
Indianapolis Colts, B: Per
formance-wise, Indy is having a 
sub-par year, but Jim Harbaugh 
has been able to steal a couple of 
wins as the Colts are tied for 
second in the division.
Miami Dolphins, B-: Three 
straight losses and tension be
tween the offense and defense 
may spell the end of the Dol
phins Super Bowl dream. A 
healthy Dan Marino may spark 
some life back into what has been 
a disappointing team thus far.
N.Y. Jets, D: A win against 
Miami is the only thing keeping 
me from giving this cellar team 
an F. Rich Kotite might not last 
the season.
New England Patriots, D-: 
The Patriots have all but given 
up on the playoffs. Drew Bledsoes 
having his worst season yet, A 
non-existent running game and a 
lack of dependable targets for 
Bledsoe may be the reason why.
AFC Central, CJacksonville Jaguars, A:
Theyre the first expansion team 
ever to win three games this 
quickly. They did it against Su
per Bowl contenders Pittsburgh 
Steelers and Cleveland Browns.
Cincinnati Bengals, C: 
Theyve got a potent offense even 
without Ki-Jana Carter. They are 
probably the best team in the 
division at the moment. They 
need a winning record, though, to 
show it.
Cleveland Browns, C-: A
three-game losing streak caused 
by injuries on both sides of the 
ball has thrown the Browns right 
back into the division race.
Pittsburgh Steelers, C-: Rod 
Woodson, Eric Green, and Barry 
Foster are missed from this team 
that needs to find a way to win 
without three of its top players 
from last year.
Houston Oilers, D: This team 
is looking towards the future and 
isnt having too bad of a rebuild
ing year. Theres some young hid
den talent on the Oilers.
AFC West, B
Kansas City Chiefs, A+: The
predicted cellar team has beaten 
everybody in their division and 
has the best record in the NFL. 
Steve Bono has done a commend
able job replacing Joe Montana.
Oakland Raiders, A-: 
Oaklands offense is scoring a lot, 
while their defense is giving up 
little. Their two division losses 
will hurt them in the AFC West 
Divisional race, though.
Denver Broncos, B-: Theyre 
about where they were last year 
despite having a new offense, 
defense, and head coach. They 
have shown some signs of great
ness, though.
San Diego Chargers, C+: 
Last years Super Bowl appear
ance may have been a fluke, as 
the Chargers have done nothing 
to show that they can repeat their 
previous performance.
Seattle Seahawks, D: After 
losing their last three games, 
Seattle has pretty much taken 
themselves out of playoff conten
tion. Rick Mirer, like Bledsoe, is 
having a bad third year.
NFC East, C
Dallas Cowboys, A: The loss 
of some key free agents seems to 
have had no effect on the Cow
boys. Deion Sanders could help 
take this team back to where it 
was two years ago.
PhiladelphiaEagles,B: Hav
ing the best rushing game and 
defense in the NFL has kept them 
in the playoff running. Mean
while, having the worst passing 
game and special teams has kept 
them trailing behind Dallas.
Washington Redskins, C:. 
The Redskins young talent is fi
nally starting to develop. The 
Redskins are back on the rise 
after sitting in the cellar for three 
straight seasons.
New York Giants, D: They 
had problems going into the sea
son, and Dan Reeves has yet to 
fix them. This may h*e Reeves 
worst season as a head coach.
American Heart b 
Associations^^
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke
AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIALS & TRIBUTES
1-800-AHA-USA1 
This space provided as a public service. 1994. American Heart Association
The Leader In Videoconferencing 
Wants To Meet With You.
f 0?Lrc* meet*ngs that span
continents...a marketing associate in
Ohio sharing ideas (and spreadsheets!)
with an accountant in Malaysia.
Colleagues on opposite coasts meeting
face-to-face from their own desktops.
PictureTel is bringing people together
for a meeting of the minds.
PictureTel is all about videoconferencing 
technology that's redefining the way the 
world meets. As an employer, we're all about 
providing a forum for creative thinking, where 
engineering college graduates can let their 
ideas flow. In an upbeat jeans and t-shirt 
environment, we have built a diverse and 
exciting company that offers hands-on 
involvement as soon as you come aboard. 
Make time to meet with the leader in 
videoconferencing technology!
More information about PictureTel is 
available in the Placement Office, or at 
our Web Site: http://unvw.picturetel.com
If you cannot join us on campus, 
please send your resume to PictureTel, 
MAILSTOP 635C, 222 Rosewood Drive, 
Danvers, MA 01923. 
edefining The Way The World Meets email: resumes@pictel.com
PictureTel is an equal opportunity employer
Please submit  
your resume 
Oct. 31-Nov. 15.
Come to our 
information session 
and Videoconference 
on Nov. 16,
6-8 pm. We will be 
on campus for 
interviews on 
Nov. 17.
 PictureTel
Pheonix Cardinals, F: The
one thing the Cards used to have 
going for them was their defense. 
They dont even have that any
more. Buddy Ryan might not re
turn after this season.
fgjF) Report -JL
A r\
.i.oR.'^^ y
\TkC*i-iC| K 0
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor 
NFC Central, B+
Green Bay Packers, A: De
spite losing a ton of players from 
last season, the Packers are still 
on top of the division. Indeed, 
there is life in Green Bay after 
Sterling Sharpe.
Chicago Bears, A: Chicago 
has managed to remain one of the 
top teams in the league despite 
having virtually no superstars.
Rashaan Salaam is looking to 
break the Heisman Trophy Win
ner Curse.
Tampa Bay Buccaneers, A-:
The Bucs may finally have a win
ning season and steal a playoff long tunnel. Hopefully the first 
berth if they continue playing the 
same way they are now.
Minnesota Vikings, C: The 
Vikings have gotten off to a slow 
start and need someone to step 
up on both offense and defense if go back home to warm, sunny 
they hope to salvage the season. Boca Raton, Florida, right now.
Detroit Lions, D: With play
ers like Barry Sanders, Herman 
Moore, Henry Thomas, and 
Chris Spielman, Detroit is un
derachieving better than any 
other team.
NFC West, B
St. Louis Rams, A: Isaac 
Bruce has brought a new di
mension to a team that has 
been red-hot since the begin
ning of the season. The Rams 
have definitely found a better 
home in St. Louis.
San Francisco 49ers, A-: 
The 49ers are not too far off 
from the team that won last 
years Super Bowl. Steve 
Youngs return is imperative 
for them to keep on winning.
Atlanta Falcons, A-: De
spite their record, the Falcons 
still need to prove to everybody 
else that they are for real by 
beating everybody who doesnt 
believe so.
Carolina Panthers, B: 
Carolina is having a slightly 
above-average expansion year. 
If they keep playing hard like 
they are now, they should win 
one or two more games.
New Orleans Saints, F: The 
Saints are the worst team in 
the NFL. There is no light at 
the end of the Saints very dark,
pick of thel996 NFL Draft will 
help them out.
Steve Charnoubi is a sopho
more who would really like to
Wm
Administration
IM Director Mike Mastroianni, x8- 
2214; Asst. DirectorMikeGrzywinskl, 
683-2938; IM Secretary  Michelle 
Matta, x8-2053; IM Co-Presidents  
Mike Monico and Sean Keane, x2-2900; 
IM Womens Pres.  Patty Bruno.
Important Dates
Tuesday, November 7  IM board 
meeting at 12:30 pm.
Wednesday, November 8 Six-Person Volleyball playoffs begin.
Sunday, November 12 IM Soccer 
playoffs begin.
Water Polo
The Intramural Department congratu
lates the minors and majors Water Polo 
Champions for 1995:
MAJORS  DU Ringers
MINORS  PKT Gators
Thanks to lifeguards Kelly Gaitens 
and Daphne Harris and official Ross 
Miller for all their help during Water 
Polo season.
Schedules
Schedules for Darts, Team Table 
Tennis and Bowling can be picked up in 
the IM Office. All teams are reminded to 
turn in game results to the IM Office 
within 24 hours of their games.
Soccer
As the IM Soccer season completes 
its second full week of play, here are 
the first IM Soccer rankings:
MINORS
1. SAE Hat Trick (2-0)
2. Melayu (2-0)
3. Kick a Ball (2-0)
4. SIAM II (2-0)
5. PKT Chaos (2-0)
6. Pi Lam (2-0)
7. Bleeding Suck (2-0)
INTERMEDIATE
1. Delt Scrubs (2-0)
2. KSA (2-0)
3. Flying Meatballs (2-0)
4. DU Mighty Mamaus (1-0)
5. Sig Tau (1-0)
WOMEN
1. Kappa Alpha Theta (2-0)
2. Tri Delt (1-1)
MAJORS
1. FC Schlltz (2-0)
2. Real Mellon A (1-1)
Volleyball
The Six-Person IM Volleyball season 
winds into its final week of regula 
season play. All teams in playoff con 
tention are reminded to check IM bulle
tin boards or the IM office for playoff 
pairings.
Entering Rosters Using Email
To enter your team by way of email 
you must use an Official Entry Form, 
which is posted to the official.athletic 
dept-news bboard periodically. Please 
use this form when entering your team 
Email entries will not be accepted any 
other way.
Note: All email rosters are due 24 
hours prior to the actual due date. No 
exceptions will be made. The Intramu 
ral Department has the right to refuse 
any rosters submitted after the dead 
line.
Questions can be directedto Michelle 
Matta (x8-2053 or mzlO).
Officials Needed
The 1995 IM Officials Club is gearing 
up for next semesters IM Basketbal 
and Floor Hockey seasons. If you are 
interested in officiating, call IM Directo 
Mike Mastroianni at x8-2214 or stop 
the IM office, Room 101, Gym.
CAREERS IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGYGive Your Technical Skills A Wider Sphere of Applications.
In today's global business climate, it is critical for companies to develop and maintain leading-edge technologies that help them make the most of every 
opportunity. At Morgan Stanley, our IT Department helps us apply state-of-the-art technology which keeps us in a preeminent position in international 
financial services. We are seeking the nation's top graduates and undergraduates to bring their talents to technology projects of worldwide scope.
You will work with such exciting technologies as:
Parallel Processing
 Object-oriented Databases/Languages 
GUI Development
 Real-time Data Distribution/Processing
 Document Architecture
 Distributed Computing
 Genetic Algorithms
 Mainframe Systems
 State-of-the-art Trades Processing Systems 
Discover the world of difference Morgan Stanley can make in your future.
Information Session:
Date: November 2nd, 1995 Check with your Placement Office for time and location.
Interviews will be held November 3rd, 1995
If unable to attend, send a resume and cover letter to: Laura Detke, Technical Recruiting Manager, Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc.,750 Seventh Avenue, 15th Floor, New York, NY 10019.
MORGAN STANLEYMorgan Stanley Is An Equal Opportunity Employer.
STOP Sj]EEP!ING W5TIH WiR P2JFESS0RS.
Is it the sound of that whlspery voice, or those big, intellectual words? If your professors are putting you
to sleep, Revive with Vivarln*. Don't let fatigue get the best of you. Vivarin's the safe 
way to stay mentally alert, with the same caffeine as about two cups of coffee.
So stay sharp in class. Don't sleep your way to the bottom.
Revive urtti'
19S5 iSUccniumgr HmUhcMtaEach tablet contains 200 mg of caffeine, equal to about two cups of coffee. Use only as directed.

---------------------------------------------------

Sponsored by Student Activities and The Tartan
J3IVE US YOUR IDEAS ANIL 
JJVELL GIVE SOMEONE ELSEj 
_________THE CREDIT.________
PHI BETA KAPPA 
VISITING SCHOLAR 
PROGRAM
get the scoop at
TOWN MEETING
Monday, November 6, 4:30 pm 
Student Center 207
Come enjoy free ice cream and 
learn about the new University Center 
from the experts!
Thomas R, Murphy
Project Manager
Edward R. Schatz
Senior V;P. fb^unuwss Affairs
AnneWitchner
Assistant Dean of Student Affairs
Representatives from the Athletics
EDWARD O. LAUMANN
Mead Distinguished Service Professor oj 
Sociology
University of Chicago
4:30 pm, Breed Lecture Hall, 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall
A public lecture on
'Sex in America: An 
Overview"
Tuesday, November 7
The lecture will provide an overview of the 1992 National Health anil 
Social Life Survey as a scientific project, a political straggle, and 
selected and substantive results and their policy implications for the 
individual and society. Special attention will be paid to the gender 
gap in sexual practices and preferences, numbers of sex partners, 
emotional and physical satisfaction, normative orientations toward 
sexual conduct, and sexually transmitted infections (including the 
threat of the spread of AIDS in the population at large).
l-imited seating. Sign up by sending e-mail to 
tango+@andrew.cmu.edu
You may also hear Professor Laumann: 
Monday, November 6
Public policy and the AIDS cpidcmic."
11:00 a.m.-12:30 pm. Mudgc Lounge 
Sign up by sending e-mail to gtOr@andrew.cmu.edu
ClaSSJUSiBOJ.80-136. Social Structure. Public Policy. & Ethical Dilemmas 
1:30-2:20 pm. Porter Hall A 18a 
Contact ps7z+@andrew.cmu.edu for more information
"Rights and expectations of 
personal privacy on the Internet" 
4:30-5:30 pm. West Wing Recreation Room. Resnik Hall 
Open to the public
Tuesday, November 7
88-240. Empirical Research Methods in the Social Sciences I 
Topic: 'Inquiring about sex: methodological issues.' 
9:00-10:20 am. Adamson Wing (Baker Hall 136a)"
Open to the public
Informal luncheon/discussion:
11:00 am -12:30 pm.. West Wing Recreation Room. Resnik Hall 
Topic: "Changes in the legal profession, 1970s-1990s.' 
Pre-law students especially invited to attend.Sign up by sending e-mail to gt0z@andrew.cmu.edu
Class session:
79-330, Health Policy Reform: Historical Perspective.
Topic: "Science, health policy and politics.
1:30-2:50 p.m.. Baker Hall 255a 
Sign up by sending e-mail to acker@andrew.cmu.edu ***
The Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program contributes to the 
Intellectual life of the campus by facilitating an exchange of Ideas 
among visiting scholars, students, and faculty members.
Dr. Laumann's visit Is made possible by the generous support or 
the Phi Beta Kappa Society Visiting Scholar Program, and 
Upsllon of Pennsylvania (the Carnegie Mellon chapter of Phi 
Beta Kappa).
Capital One is more than a company that issues credit cads. Were an 
idea company. An information-based company with an environ
ment that inspires, generates, and produces one breakthrough after 
another. Today, we have firmly established our position as the company 
with the talent, and the technology that has redefined our industry.
If you are an "idea person interested in a team environment in which 
you can truly make an impact, consider a career with Capital One.
As long as people will take credit, you might as well take the opportuni
ty to put your ideas to work Join us and realize your most ambitious goals, 
with a company destined to do the same.
Resume Drop Date: November 6th
Capital One has redefined an industry. Imagine what we can do for your career.
CapitalQne,
Where Information Builds Success.
We arc an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in the workplace.
We promote a drug-free work environment.
Edward Laumann is director of the Ogburn Stouffer 
Center for Population and Social Organization and former 
editor of the American Journal of Sociology. Among his 
eleven books are: The Social Organization of Sexuality. 
Sex in America, The Hollow Core: Interest Representation 
in National Policymaking, and The Organizational State: 
Social Choice in National Policy Domains.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  30 October 199511
Mascots may indicate 
college teams success
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
expansion teams are named af
ter cats (Jaguars and Panthers), 
and there are four pro bird teams 
(Cardinals, Eagles, Falcons, and 
Seahawks). Looking at some of 
the top teams in the nation, one 
sees Gators, Jayhawks, Buffaloes, 
Wildcats, Wolverines, and Ducks.
Relying on regional pride seems 
to work too, though. Of course, 
there are the 49ers and Cowboys, 
and the Buccaneers may be the 
NFLs version of the pirates of 
the Caribbean. Rounding out the 
college top 10, one sees explosive
ness: the Seminles, Comhuskers, Buckeyes, and Volunteers.
At a certain time, on a certain 
day, in a certain year, when trailblazers still pioneered the West, 
settlers lined up along the Okla
homa Territory. At the pop of a 
gun, they raced across the state. But Florida State, Nebraska, 
Any amount of land that they Ohio State, and Tennessee 
could section off they could keep, havent had good basketball 
This being America, of course, teams for years, 
some people raced to grab some It seems' like certain team 
land before they were supposed 
to. These people were called 
'Sooners, and are the reason 
why the University of 
Oklahomas mascot is a 
Sooner.
In a move with abso
lutely no relation to Okla
homa, the Cincinnati 
Reds were called the 
Redlegs throughout the 
50s so that no one would 
mistake them for Stalinists.
Also seemingly unrelated, when 
the NBAs Lakers moved from 
Minneapolis to Los Angeles, 
they kept their name. At the 
start of last season, all of 
St. Johns collegiate 
teams changed their
name from Redmen to Red Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
Storm. Who cares how a 
team got its name, you say?
Whats in a name?
Going by college football, 
plenty. If you name your team 
the Zips, like Akron (1-6) did, 
dont expect to win many games.
A team called the Penguins may 
be good at hockey, but Young
stown State (2-6) is proof that 
Penguins cant play football.
I wouldnt expect a team named 
the Owls to be too active, and at
1-5-1, the Rice football team 
doesnt seem to be. The name 
Rockets brings explosiveness to 
mind and Toledo (6-01) may be 
bowl bound.
How do teams pick their names?
Borrowing from the animal kingi is always a favorite, espe
cially cats and birds. Both NFL
names are stronger for different 
college sports. Schools with top 
basketball teams like obscure ani
mal names and usually dont play 
well on the gridiron. Roundball 
powerhouses the Duke Blue Dev
ils (2-6), North Carolina Tarheels 
(43), and Georgetown Hoyas (3- 
3) seem to have more trouble with 
the oblong spheroid.
A lot of names actually make 
sense. The New Mexico Lobos, 
Penn Quakers, and Illinois Illini 
are good examples, but Id like to 
ask Virginia Tech whafc a Hokie 
is.
An original name is a curse as 
often as it is a blessing. UCLA 
and Maryland fans cheer, but are 
always disappointed when they 
find out that a Bruin is just a bear
and a Terrapin is merely a turtle. 
While the Bruins win basketball 
titles and go to Rose Bowls, the 
Terrapins are often the second 
choice for athletes like the Golden 
State Warriors Joe Smith.
Animals certainly seem to ex
cel in the single categories. The 
top individual statistics leaders 
in total yards, interceptions, punt
ing average, punt return aver
age, kick return average, and field 
goal accuracy are a Wolf Pack, 
Tiger, Cardinal, Cougar, Bear, 
and Horned Frog respectively.
But what sort of mascot or team 
name is most beneficial to a teams 
winning image? That parts un
certain. In the battle of Kansas, 
cat ate bird as the Wildcats 
feasted on the Jayhawks 41-7.
Man met beast and lost when 
UNLVs Running Rebels played 
the Wolf Pack of Nevada, tied at 
21 in the USC Trojan/Washing
ton Huskie matchup, but won in 
the Nebraska Cornhusker/Colorado Buffalo game (44-21). Go
ing by name alone, you could say 
that the Hens maimed the Black 
Bears this weekend; Delaware 
beat Maine 61-0.
What name will attract the fu
ture All-American? For instance, 
who wouldnt want to 
be a member of the 
Fighting Irish? Then 
again, a team with a 
perfectly decent name 
like the Prairie View 
Wildcats hasnt won 
a game in five years. 
It seems like fans 
want something catchy to 
cheer for. Go Delta Devils! is a 
lot easier to s ay than Cmon Mis
sissippi Valley State! Having an 
full-blooded Native American ride 
a horse onto the field or beat a 
war drum works for some.
Changing the team name and 
other gimmicks arent always 
plausible, so teams often abbre
viate names, to make it easier on 
fans. Seminoles is usually just 
Noles and Hurricanes only 
Canes. However, the South Caro
lina Gamecocks may have taken 
the name game a bit too far. 
Stitched to the bottom of their 
cheerleaders bloomers are the 
words Go Cocks!
Chris Cannon is a sophomore 
computer science major.
classified
HOUSING
Squirrel Hill House  1 Irg BR w/ 
balcony, Male, 275 /month, easy 
walk to CMU, Bartlett St., 422- 7670.
North Oakland. 2 BR Apt w/w 
carpet, A/C, parking available short 
term lease accepted. 495 + electric 
362-2049. Ask for Dianne or (irginia.
JOBS
Excellent extra income now. 
ftvelope stuffing $600 - $800 
every week. Free details: SASE to 
pternational Inc. 1375 Coney 
sland Ave. Brooklyn, New York 11230.I
Wanted! Individual, student 
|r9anizations to promote Spring 
|reak. Earn money and free trips. 
Mil Inter-Campus Programs, at 
00)-327-6013 or http://
....cpt.com.
ISC
!wnsend Booksellers offers a Free
On-line Search Service for out-ofprint books. Always buying and 
selling fine used, rare and scholarly 
books in all fields. Near campus at 
4612 Henry St. (off S. Craig) MonSat, 11-6, Sun 1-5. Phone 412-682- 
8030. e-mail: 
townsend@interloc.com.
Free financial aid! Over $6 billion in 
private sector grants & scholarships is 
now available. All students are 
eligible regardless of grades, income, 
or parent's income. Let us help. Call 
student Financial Services: 1-800- 
263-6495 ext. F52361.
SERVICES
International Students-Visitors.
DV-1 Greencard Program, by U.S. 
Immigration. Legal Services Tel 
(818) 772-7168 #20231 Stagg St. 
Canoga Park, CA 91306.
ALEX'S FLOWERS for romance, 
birthday, anniversary, platonic and 
more. 687-4128 DELIVERY 687- 
ALEX. Group discounts and Greek 
discounts.
TRAVEL
No need to pay high airfares to 
Asia, Europe, and Central & South 
America. Call Mercur-Lombardo 
Travel Agency at 412-751-0300 or
1-800-367-6582 for the best prices. 
Serving the traveling public or over 
45 years.
Travel free for Spring Break '96. 
Cancn, Bahamas, S. Padre, & 
Florida. Form a group of 15 & 
travel free + earn $$$$. Food & 
drinks included. (800) 657-4048.
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........$8.00/wk21-50 words........510.00/wk51-100 words.....$13.00/wk
MAIL TO:The Tartan, Boxl 7 Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or check before first run date.
On-campus departments and organizations may pay by journal transfer.
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before publication.
Tartans defeat 
Behrend, 2-1
SOCCER, from page 12
the UAA, took a Division I team like Pitt to overtime. Meanwhile, 
Pitt has beaten Division I powerhouses Notre Dame and Rutgers. 
Rutgers was ranked fourth in the nation when Pitt beat them. The 
UAA is a real class league, said Gaudioso.
Gaudioso also commented on the loss of two freshmen, goaltender 
Brad McNutt and back Peter Truong, about two-thirds into the 
season as contributing to the teams difficulties. McNutt had been 
ailing from a knee injury all season and was finally knocked out of 
play by illness.
With McNutt out, freshman Justin Petro has been starting. 
Gaudioso said he stepped in just fine, and he attributed any 
mistakes he has made on the field to his youth and to the fact that 
he was brought in to learn this year and not necessarily to start.
Gaudioso said, You can hide young field players, but you cant 
hide a young goalkeeper because theres just net behind them. 
Truong also has a knee injury. He tried starting against Emory, 
but the problem was too intense, and he had to come out five 
minutes into the game. Graduate student Jeff McJunkin has 
covered the sweeper position well, but his absence in the midfield 
has created problems.
Gaudioso was forced to start freshmen on the outside midfields, 
rotating between Dan Brody, Wes Kopacka, and Marc Eldridge. 
He said theyre just young and need time and experience.
The team closed out its season this past Saturday against 
Washington University of St. Louis.
Womens soccer earns its first overtime win
TARTANS, from page 12
This past Thursday, the team 
traveled to Grove City College 
and tallied its first overtime win 
of the season, 2-1.
Although the Tartans came out 
on top, the team was not pleased 
with its performance. CMU 
lacked its normal intensity 
throughout the game, and did 
not press the Grove City defense 
hard enough to capitalize on sev
eral scoring opportunities.
This was their last game, said 
co-captain senior Maria Casella. 
They were really ready for us
and intense. We were not nearly 
as focused or intense.
Haggerty agreed. They were a 
little stronger and a little faster 
than we expected.
Sophomore forward Kim 
Umeda scored both goals for the 
Tartans. The first goal came when 
Umeda turned the ball in the 
penalty box and shot hard on the 
goal. The ball hit off of one of the 
Grove City defenders, and 
bounced into the net.
Later, Umeda scored the sec
ond goal on a breakaway run late 
in the second overtime period.
w
Several members of the Tartan 
football team have recently been 
named University Athletic Associa
tion Players-of-the-Week.
Junior inside (inebacker Ray Ardire 
was named UAA Defensive Player-ofthe-Week for his contribution to 
CMUs 12-8 victory over Washington 
University (Mo.) on October 14.
Due to the Tartans outstanding 
defensive game, Washington had its 
lowest pointtotal this season. Wash
ington was also held to only 87 yards 
rushing, compared to its average of 
just over 160 rushingyards pergame.
Ardire led the Tartan's defensive 
squad with eight tackles and five 
solo hits. As of his honor, Ardire led 
the team with 71 tackles. This is 
Ardire's second UAA honor this sea
son, having received his first for his
14 tackles and 11 solo hits in the 
27-8 Tartan win over F&M.
Senior defensive back Rob Locke 
was named UAA Defensive Player-ofthe-Week for scoring the game-win
ning points in Carnegie Mellon's 35- 
21 win over the University of Chicago 
last Saturday.
Locke scored the points on a 35- 
yard interception return in the third 
quarter. He also tallied an additional 
seven tackles, four solo, and two 
pass breakups. Ardire leads the Tar
tans with three interceptions and 
seven pass breakups, and is third 
with 44 tackles, 29 solo.
For his performance in the Chi
cago game, sophomore halfback 
Chris Neupaverwas named UAA Of
fensive Player-of-the-Week.
Neupaver rushed for 76 yards on
11 carries, and caught three passes 
for 62 yards and a touchdown. 
Neupaver leads the Tartans with 19 
catches for 342 yards, 882 all-pur
pose yards, 42 total points, and 11 
kickoff returns for 232 yards.
Compiled by 
PAUL BOOTHE
THETARTAN 
268-2111
-?v
mV&ftw&r
iKtTV&K htre
-&V P,th {Vj,hV jdzV -jj
Present your 
student I.D. 
one hour before 
same time and 
youll set the best 
available seat in 
the buildlns 
for only $15.
Co to Civic Arena 
Box OfficeSate 6, for these 
upcomins games.
For information 
call... 
642-PENS
Ins IideDdvDr oeLgrmhwY.zTG
-WzuDO
Wed11/1vsTampa Bay
TUes11/14vsDallas
Sat11/18vsWashington
Tues11/28vsOttawa
All games 
start at 
7:30 P.M.
Student
Rush
at
6:30 P.M.
awKe /,th iKtTV&K HUc
(Limit 1 Ticket Per Student - Subject to availability)

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 90, Issue 8The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania30 October 1995
By RICK SIMMONS
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens soccer team went 1-2 in 
the past week, beating Penn State 
Behrend and losing to UAA members 
Emory and New York University.
Last Wednesday, October 25, the 
team traveled north to Penn States 
Behrend campus in Erie to match up 
with their soccer team. The Tartans 
were victorious, with the game ending
2-1 in their favor.
Over the weekend of October 20-22, 
the Tartans took a two-game road trip, 
stopping in Atlanta to play Emory on 
Saturday and then flying to New York 
to play NYU on Sunday.
The NYU game ended 2-1, with 
Carnegie Mellon on the losing end. 
The Tartans scored first, but NYU 
came on strong to win the game. Head 
coach Nick Gaudioso said the 
oppositions goals were accidents, 
though. One goal came as a result of 
the high winds. A Tartan defender 
allowed a highrSailing ball to float 
back to the keeper, but because of the
unpredictable winds, the ball didnt go 
where the defender and keeper thought 
it was going to, and an NYU forward 
snuck in behind the defense, took the 
ball, and scored.
Two days before playing NYU, the 
Tartans got shut out by Emory, 5-0. 
There was no score until 10 minutes 
before the end of the first half, though. 
After that, Gaudioso said, the whole 
mood of the game changed, and Emory 
proceeded to score four more goals;
Gaudioso has mentioned; several 
times the importance of scoring the 
first goal, especially against UAA 
teams, and he mentioned it again af
ter last weekend. Four of the'six UAA 
games the Tartans have played so far 
have been won by the team that scored 
first. Of the 14 games played so far 
that didnt end in a tie, 12 were won by 
the team that scored first.
Speculating on the teams lack of 
success this year in the UAA, Gaudioso 
commented on how difficult the league 
is. He pointed out that Carnegie 
Mellon, a team that has gone 1-5 in 
Please see SOCCER, page 11
Tartan File Photo
CMU ended its five-game slide with a win over Penn State Behrend, 2-1.
The Tartans surged in the fourth quarter to defeat theCMU rallies late, beats Rochester
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Staffwriter
On a cloudy day at the University of 
Rochester, Carnegie Mellon used sound 
defense and a strong fourth quarter to 
rally to a 20-10 victory.
Rochester put together the only score 
of the first half on a seven-yard pass to 
star wide-out Michel LeFlore in the 
second quarter.
...  -The Tartans were bogged down in the 
first half Senior quarterback Daye 
Soltysiks second pass was intercepted. 
The 45 first-half penalty yards helped 
stop'CMU drives before they really got 
started. The Tartans did put together an
11-play, 67-yard drive, only, to be stalled 
at the Rochester 12 yard line.
The Rochester defense held them to 
just one first down and 50 yards over the 
rest of the half.
On their first chance of the second 
half, CMU put together another impres
sive drive. The Ta:rtaris failed to get on 
the board again, though, as Doug 
Hudsons 30-yard field goal attempt was 
wide left. The problems that plagued 
CMU in the first half continued as sopho
more split end Ricco Parrish, who caught 
three passes for 65 yards, fumbled on a 
double reverse. Rochester turned that 
fumble into a field goal for a 10-0 lead.
The game featured contrasting styles, 
as Rochester looked to their star players 
and CMU relied on a team effort.
The Tartans completed eight passes 
to six different players and spread the 
ball evenly among three different run
ners. Tinelle Walker had 128 of 
Rochesters 171 rushing yards, and 
LeFlore had 62 of their 88 passingyards.
Shut out over the first three quarters, 
CMU was all business in the fourth. On
their first drive of the quarter, they 
banged the ball out from their own three 
yard-line up to midfield before being 
forced to punt. Once they got the ball 
back, the Tartans ate up large chunks of 
the field in a five-play, 88-yard drive 
ending with a 54-yard pass from Soltysik 
to junior running back Buck Neel.
The defense held on three plays, i 
again the offense marched up the field 
using a quick, effective drive to take a 
14-10 lead capped off by a four-yard 
plunge by Neel.
 The defense held strong throughout 
and finished the scoring. On the first 
play of the next drive, two former UAA 
Players of the Week combined for a touch
down as junior linebacker Ray Ardire 
intercepted and returned a pass 1 
senior comerback Rob Locke deflectei
The Tartans will play at Juniata Col
lege next Saturday.CMU Hockey Club frustrated by Penn State West squad
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Staffwriter ^
Last Sunday, October 22, the Carnegie Mellon 
Hockey Club played Penn State West, a team that 
they dont normally see in regular season because 
of the new division alignment. Its a good thing.
Coming off a huge blowout the night before 
against Edinboro, the Tartans were confident about 
the Sunday night exhibition. An easy goal early 
from the fourth line by freshman center Keith 
Garrett allowed the Tartans to relax  too much.
When we woke up, it was the end of the second 
period, and they were beating us 71, said grad 
student defenseman Tom Sullivan.
For two straight periods, the Penn State team 
was first to the puck and effective in tying up play
in front of their own net. Frustration set in. CMU 
committed twice the penalties an had half the 
shots on goal as the dominating PSW team.
Junior goaltender Jon Kliegman was barraged 
with over 30 shots on net in the fir^t two periods 
alone. Forechecking was almost nonexistent and 
back checking was too few and far between to be 
effective. The PSW team, skating harder and hun
gry for the win, picked up on every small CMU 
mistake and miscommunication.
After the second period, Coach Fred Maddalena 
hurried his team off the ice to try to calm them 
down. He told them outright that the game had to 
pick lip or they werent going, to be seing Penn 
State gain, a reference to the playoffs.
The frustrated, overworkedidefeiisemen and cap
tains expressed concern about the lack of hitting
and intensity of play. The third period had to be 
different. '
Allowing Kliegman his rest, sophomore goalie 
Derek Jander took over between the pipes in the 
third. The small time between periods seemed to 
reviye the CMU team as the play picked up signifi
cantly. Sophomore defenseman Paul Voulgaris 
played extra time to stop the opposing offense, and 
the combined efforts of Voulgaris and sophomore 
center Scott Fitzgerald finally paid off.
PSW scored early, but junior winger Jim Buck 
pounded it right back into the Penn State net, with 
the help of Sullivan and junior left winger Anthony 
Paul. Freshman winger Dino Sanchez came alive 
in the third and chipped one in with the assist from 
assistant captain Blair Echols and freshman winger 
Andy Oxnard.
Buck scored the last goal of the period as well, 
with a^perfect pass from senior captain, center 
Roger Maddalena. The game ended in a 10-i 
decision going to Penn State West. Jander had 10 
saves.
The plan of attack for the upcoming Saturday 
night bout against Slippery Rock is a change in line 
structure. Instead of running four lines, Carnegie 
Mellon is changing to a three-line structure, 
Defensemen will rotate in, giving Echols, Voulgaris, 
Sullivan, and junior defenseman Chris Adukaitis 
little rest.
The Slippery Rock game will be physical, so the 
Tartans will have to hit and dig to come up victori
ous.
I think that we have the talent to overcome the 
problems that we faced on Sunday, Echols said.
Tartans lose to top-ranked Bears
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
The womens soccer 
team played away 
against highly-ranked 
UAA rival Washington 
University of St. Louis 
for their final game of 
the season last Saturday.
The Tartans played well, 
but lost to the Bears, 1-
0. This defeat comes af
ter CMUs 2-1 overtime 
win last Thursday over 
Grove City College.
CMU held Washington 
University scoreless un
til late in regulation play, 
when the Bears scored 
the only goal of the game.
Head Coach Ann Haggerty 
said, It was a hard-fought 
game. It could have gone ei
ther way.
Freshman back Tracy Bur
ton played an excellent defen
sive game, matched up against 
Washingtons freshman for
ward Lori Thomas, one of the 
leading goal-scorers in the 
UAA. Burton held Thomas to 
only one shot on goal. Burton
Tartan file photo 
CMU won its first overtime game of 
the season, defeating Grove City.
and the rest of the defensive 
squad played hard to keep 
shots on goal to a minimum, 
and CMU outshot Washing
ton despite their loss.
Haggerty said that the 
team came real close to scor
ing with our corner kicks,1 
and almost tied the game in 
the final seconds with a close 
scoring opportunity from the 
corner.
Please see TARTANS, page H
Mens soccer drops 
two, beats Behrend
NHLs involvement will improve Olympics
Crashing the Net
by Jonmichael Moy
Two years ago, when the New 
York Rangers defeated the 
Vancouver Canucks for their first 
Stanley Cup in 54 years,- hockey 
was at an all-time high: National 
Hockey League commissioner 
Gary Bettmans aggressive ap
proach to market hockey as a fam
ily product to television viewers 
across the country proved to be a 
huge success at that time. How
ever hockeys golden image was 
tarnished when the next, season 
was shortened due, to labor dis
putes between owners and the 
NHLPA.
Shortly after the 1995-96 sea
son started, the National Hockey 
League agreed to terms with the 
Winter Olympics Committee and 
the International Hockey Federa
tion to allow its players to partici
pate in the 1998 Winter Olympics 
Games in Nagano, Japan. The 
league will schedule for two weeks, 
allowing players an opportunity
to represent their country on the 
ice. But what does this mean to 
the sport of hockey and its legion 
of fans around the world?
Almost similar to basketballs 
original Dream Team, the NHLs 
participation in the upcoming 
Winter Olympics will serve as 
the ultimate showcase of talent 
and sportsmanship that hockey 
has to offer.
With baseball struggling to win 
back its fans after last years 
strike and basketballs growing 
image of having faceless and ar
rogant players, this is an ideal 
opportunity for the NHL to mar
ket its product  a sport that is 
significant in many countries in 
the world.
Wayne Gretzky, Mario 
Lemieux, and Brett Hull are 
hockeys latest versions of 
Michael Jordan, Larry Bird, and 
Magic Johnson wearing skates. 
Eric Lindros is hockeys version 
of Shaquille ONeal; they are both 
dominant young players in their, 
respective sports who have yet to 
reach their prime.
When you consider the hockey 
talent the world has to offer, 
Canada is the heavy favorite to 
go all the way and win the gold 
medal, since the majority of the 
NHLs superstars are Canadian 
products. Countries such as
Canada, the,United States, the 
former Soviet Union, Finland, and 
Sweden will most likely have more 
than one team competing in the 
Winter Games since they all have 
so much depth. Can you imagine 
future hall-of-famers Lemieux, 
Gretzky, Lindros, Paul Coffey, and 
Ray Bourque on the same line with 
Patrick Roy between the pipes?. 
Its enough to send chills up my 
spine.
The United States will be wellrepresented, with prolific super
stars Jeremy Roenick,Brett Hull, 
Keith Tkachuk, Chris Clielios, 
Brian Leetch, and other fellow 
American hockey players wearing 
the red, white, and blue jerseys. 
While U:S. hockey teams in the 
past have, never been short of tal
ent, it has been questioned 
whether they have the heart and 
team chemistry dt takes to .win it 
all. Finland wont have any trouble, 
scoring goals, with Teemu 
Selanne, Saku Koiva, and Jari 
, Kurri teaming up to represent 
their homeland.
The Winter Olympics will m ark 
a change of hbckey generations for 
the former, Soviet Union repub
lics. Sergei Federov, Pavel Bure, 
i and Alexander Mogilny will be 
reunited to try to bring the gold 
medal back to theircountry. In the 
past, ex-Central Army players Igor
Larionov and Sergei Makarov were 
part of the famous KLM line that 
dominated the International 
Hockey League, as well as Olym
pic competition back in the 80s. 
Federov and Co. .will bear the 
weight of all their 'countrys hopes 
to bring back Russian dominance 
inhdckey. While there are no guar
antees that-this trio can deliver a 
gold medal, expect hockey fans to 
be glued to their television screens 
for every, single minute that this 
explosive and exciting line goes 
onto the . ice. Im not too sure if 
television'cameras will be able to 
catch;up with them.
O'nanend note, congratulations 
to Penguins superstar Mario 
Lemieux for becoming the 20th 
player in NHL history to score 500 
goals,, when he. notched his first 
hat trick of the season last Thurs
day, night. Lemieux reached the 
500-goal plateau in his 605th ca
reer game, which is faster than 
everyone else in NHL history ex
cept Wayne Gretzky, who did it in 
i only 575 games.
Jonmichael Moy is a junior IM /. 
econ double major. He cant wait to 
attend the 1998 Winter Games in 
Japan.
Right now, hes looking for any
one who can get him connected so 
that he can get center-ice seats.

---------------------------------------------------

^ke room con" \ tains a vast arpMa *ray of cactus 
!^^W/Plants anc* ther 
IPrlPv plants that grow 
in dry cHmates. The 
W Century plant is a large 
M octopus-like plant that 
flowers up to 40 feet. This
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania30 October 1995
Phipps Observatory offers beautijiif gardens
T TT TT1 TninnnniraagfinLIYII^VJ
, A 3?-- * " . -   r- . . ni-v  r
f-T Ss  t . ll .. . - < . Ac.i f  I*
By ENA KHAN
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
Phipps Conservatory 
was established in 
|1893 by Henry 
hipps, an industri
alist and philan
thropist. Origi
nally con
ducted with 
.ne rooms at a 
ist of $110,000, it 
then the largest 
;lass house in the counThe conservatory was intended t< 
provide a facility for learning as well ai 
a source of enjoyment for people. Wit! 
its exotic flora and elaborately deco
cted rooms, it did just that. The conser 
atory provided an escape from the inlustrially blackened skies of old Pitts; 
lurgh.
Over the next century various addi
ctions and renovations expanded thi 
|andmark to include 13 display room: 
with thematic arrangements of foliage 
and four outdoor gardens, one of whic1 
is currently being constructed.
| The conservatory tour begins in th<
! Victorian Palm Court, where a variety 
6f55- foot palm trees  some more tha 
100 years oldcreate a canopy of gree: 
The ceiling reaches 60 feet high so t! 
aim trees can grow to their mati 
height. In the center lies a comp, 
imbedded into the stone floor, usefu' 
lavigating lost visitors around the s; 
aous conservatory. From the cen1 
aim Court, the east, south, and 
Hngs of the building are accessiblej 
Within the west wing is the Ser] 
ineRoom, named after the rooms w] 
ng shape. Currently, for the Fall Flo 
show, the room is decorated with 
ilory of Autumn Chrysanthemum. Ttys 
room creates a path leading to thri 
other rooms that resemble the enviro] 
pent of a tropical rain forest.
The Stove Room, Fern Room, and Or;hid Room recreate a trip through a 
owland rain forest up to a mountainous 
?loud forest. The Stove Room, also known_ 
as the Over and Under Room, most 
esembles a tropical rain forest, as plants 
equiring low intensity light are grown 
here.
Carnivorous plants such as the Venus 
lytrap, which typically eat insects, can 
Iso be found in this room. The Orchid 
loom recreates the environment of cloud 
(orests, which are moist, mountainous 
egions appropriate for growing orchids 
find air plants.
The South Conservatorys main room 
ontains the Bomarzo Garden, which is 
ased upon gardens from the north of 
Rome. The garden features unusually 
taped stone monsters emerging from 
he ground. Two other areas in the south 
^ng include rooms devoted to tropical 
ftuts and spices and a tropical bonsai 
'splay.
In the west wing of the conservatory, 
ne Sunken Garden Room features calanums as well as an exhibition celebrat^gThe Carnegies 100th birthday. The
tribute includes pictures of the history 
of The Carnegie surrounded by floral 
designs and a water fountain.
From there a path leads to 
the Desert Room, 
built in 1901.
The century plant (above right) blooms every 10 to 100 years, after which it withers down to the roots.
plant that 
up to 40 feet. This 
cactus takes anywhere from 10 to 100 
years to bloom, immediately after which 
the whole plant withers down to the 
P roots.
The Victoria Room (named after Queen 
Victoria) is next on the conservatory 
;our. Water lilies growing up to six feet 
;n diameter are featured within a small 
| pool of water lying in the center of this 
i room. Surrounded by a variety of tropi
cal plants and trees, the room creates 
the atmosphere of a lagoon.
The Backyard Garden, which is often 
! rented to hold small wedding ceremo
nies, is one of the last rooms on the tour. 
As another part of the flower show, the 
room is elaborately decorated with rows 
of chrysanthemums, cascade mums, or
namental grasses, and licorice plant 
ground cover that surround a rocky wa
terfall and small stream. Needless to 
say, it does not resemble the average 
backyard garden.
Currently under construction is the 
Childrens Discovery Garden, an out
door facility to be opened July 11,1996. 
This innovative center plans to make 
learning enjoyable for children by sim
ply letting them have fun. Some activi
ties include a maze, various hiding ar
eas, a three rivers concourse, and a pa
vilion where educational courses are to 
be taught. Planting, nature photogra
phy, worm composting, and gardening 
.are just a few of the programs that will 
>e offered.
v'The winter flower show featuring poinsettias and Amaryllis starts November 
24. A special candlelight tour of the 
conservatory highlights the arrange
ments at night for a week before Christ
mas.
Aside from the seasonal changes in 
room decorations and various floral 
shows, Phipps Conservatory holds a 
variety of special events including pro
fessional storytellers, musical perfor
mances, and wine tasting parties.
New programs are also being imple
mented to emphasize the educational 
aspects of the conservatory. Robert 
Alexander, the head of education at the 
conservatory, plans to have educational 
programs aimed at specific age groups 
such as children, students, and adults 
available in the spring.
We want to increase the educational 
message which involves plant biology 
and environmental sciences, said 
Alexander.
This often-overlooked nearby attrac
tion welcomes students with college IDs 
at a discounted rate of $3.50 (adults $5).
This stone statue is part of the Bomarzo Garden.
Phipps Conservatory, a nearby attraction, provides CMU students with an educational yet fun getaway.

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  30 October 1995
Eating Disorders create alternate reality
Anorexia affects family life
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Acting Calendar Editor
[Ed. Note The following is an interview with a CMU student who has a sister 
that suffers from an eating disorder. The student wished to remain anonymous.
All names have been changed to protect the identities of the people involved].
I came home one night and found this cop circling my driveway. As I pulled in 
closer, he asked, Is this 80 Shanadoa Drive?
I said, Yeah, is something wrong?
We got a 911 from this address.
I ran inside and saw my sister huddled on the floor, clutching the phone, crying 
and saying, Im sorry  Im sorry.
She had taken a bottle of aspirintried to kill herself. But if you swallow that 
much aspirin, you dont die, youre just miserable, and at that moment she was 
really hating life. I had to carry her out and put her on a stretcher. Right then, 
as I picked her up, I realized how incredibly thin my sister was, how hollow she 
felt. She was so fucking light, Ill tell you that. We were past the point of her bodily 
functions turning off; she was just bones with skin.
When my sister was in the ninth grade, I noticed that she was chronically 
freezing and wore a million shirts all the time, but it wasnt until my parents told 
me that she was being admitted into the first of many hospitals for treatment 
that it was confirmed in my mind that she had an eating disorder. Ellen has been 
struggling with anorexia nervosa since age 15 and has moved through hospitals 
and treatments for the past seven years. Since then, Ive experienced this 
disease first-hand, watching the process of self-destruction take hold of my sister 
and change the course of her adolescence.
Ive always considered her to be a lot smarter than me. In- school she did 
everythingplayed tennis, softball, danced. Shes definitely more effusive than 
me, but thats not saying much. When she was first hospitalized, she had 20 
people a day visit her. She was so high profile. I could never understand how she 
could have an esteem problem. How could she hate herself? What did I do to make 
her hate herself?
That summer of Ellens freshman year of high school was the first time she 
went into therapy. I figured that once we got her to the hospital, the hardest part 
would be over; wed found the problem, and now she was getting help. If 
anything, it got worse; I cant describe rock bottom because I cant really 
pinpoint it.
Ellen never thought that she had a problem, so obviously she was never open 
to the idea of therapy. We took her to the hospital one day and finally left her 
there, miserable. The next day I heard a knock on the door, and there she was 
standing on the door step. I looked at her and thought, Jesus, what the hell are 
you doing? My mother was going nuts, but I felt like I had to fend for her against 
my parents; shes my sister.
I told her that it was ok, to come in and hang out for a while. When my parents 
got home, we had.to take her back. I had to carry her and hold her in the car all 
the way there, crying.
We didnt hang out together as much after I went to high school, but it was due 
in part to her friendsI hated them. They were such a destructive group of girls, 
always forming alliances within the group. One day it would be three against one
Please see FAMILY, page L5
Anorexia nervosa, bulimia stem from social, personal pressure
control over themselves is channeled 
through restrictions on the body. Its a 
way of coping with depression and many 
treatments will work with that idea, 
said Dr. Dias. In that way therapy gears 
itself toward the mind set of the indi
vidual, who will generally deny havinga 
problem to begin with.
Its important that people are aware 
of how to get help on this campus, said 
Dias. Since most anorexics and bulimics 
are in denial, support is the key factor;
Trying to force them to get help might 
worsen the situation, rather than miti
gating the problem since the pivotal goal 
to an anorexic is to remain in control oi 
his or herself.
There are a number of facilities in the 
area that focus on the problems of de
structive eating habits from the Eating 
Disorders Clinic of Western Psychiatric 
Institute and Clinic to the CMU Coun
seling Center. In most cases professional 
help is imperative in preventing a suf
ferer from practicing eating tendenciet 
that could lead to death.
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Acting Tartan Calendar Editor
[Please see related story on page L4.]
I dont think that eating disorders are 
about eating behaviors, but more accu
rately they represent underlying prob
lems that relate to separation and indi
viduation, said Dr. Louella Dias, a coun
selor from the Carnegie Mellon Coun
seling Center.
Stress that is specifically linked to 
the pressures of the developmental pro
cess can be a factor in the development 
of anorexia, bulimia and compulsive 
overeating, she added.
Driving to maintain order and exhibit 
control over their lives, many college 
students as well as adolescents develop 
eating disorders in response to changes 
in situations and distortions in ones 
self-image, social as well as physical. 
Comparative to substance abuse, eating 
problems reflect an abuse of food, in 
efforts to balance a misconstrued image 
of the self. These problems surface in 
one of three forms: anorexia nervosa,
bulimia nervosa and compulsive over
eating.
Anorexia is characterized by a rapid 
loss in weight due to eating almost noth
ing. Most anorexics 
tend to feel guilty 
about eating in pub
lic and are driven by 
a desire to be abnor
mally thin. The ob
session evolves from 
a fear of social rejec
tion, wanting to con
form to ideological 
body forms.
Bulimics suffer 
from the same fear 
of gaining weight,
but tend to be closer to normal propor
tions since they experience fluctuations 
in weight rather than a steady decrease. 
Following a cycle of starve-binge-purgestarve cycle, eating becomes a night
mare for bulimics, as well for anorexics. 
Both types make a strong connection 
between food weight, exercise and body 
image becoming obsessive exercisers,
setting eating restrictions depending on 
how much time they can devote to exer
cise in a day.
Compulsive overeaters release ten"The type of people who develop eating 
disorders tend to be highly intelligent 
perfectionists> active in many aspects of 
their lives.
 Margaret Puskar, 
senior social history major.
sions by bingeing, as an effort to hide 
emotional discomfort. Yet unlike 
bulimics they dont attempt to compen
sate through purge and starve cycles. 
Overeaters tend to binge in public, to 
soothen social anxieties.
Sufferers of eating disorders measures 
success through the eyes of others, cre
ating an image of themselves and their
goals in relation to their own warped 
depiction. I would say that those who 
have eating problems also suffer from 
disorders of the identity, said Dias.  - 
Disorders of identity are 
usually imbedded in 
anorexia and bulimia, 
she added.
The type of people who 
develop eating disorders 
tend to be highly intelli
gent perfectionists, active 
in many aspects of their 
lives, said Margaret 
Puskar, a senior social his
tory major. They lean towards structures, in order 
to regain a perceived loss
of control.
While she agrees that anorexics feel 
the need to ritualize their lives, Dias 
finds it difficult to generalize on person
ality types. Its a complicated issue in 
each individual, she said. The symp
toms that a sufferer shows might not 
necessarily match up to specific person
ality, she added. The need to tighten
GET A LIFE GET HERBALIFE
Make MoneyLose Weight 
International Company 15 Years in Business
CALL NOW 
412-882-1404
NEW YORK $80 SAN FRANCISCO $178
PHILADELPHIA 39 ALBUQUERQUE 178
TAMPA 85 DENVER 178
MIAMI 119 SEATTLE 178
Fares are STUDENT fares, from Pittsburgh, each way based on a round trip purchase. International Student ID may be required. Taxes & surcharges are NOT included. Fares may change without notice.
Call fora FREE StudextTravels"magazisfJ
CouncilTravel
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange
Internet: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
118 MeyranAve, Pittsburgh, PA 15213683-1881
Do You Skip or Miss Periods?
Researchers at Magee-Womens Hospital are conducting a 
study to determine what causes women to miss their periods. 
If you have four or fewer periods a year, are not on medication, 
are between 18 and 35 years of age, a non-smoker, and of 
normal weight, please call Kerry at 641 -1602. If eligible, you 
may earn up to $525.
Mag-Wxns Hospital

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  30 October 1995L3
Films distort reality of rape
Cracking the Myth
by Suzanne Paddock
Last week I wrote about the rape of 
Mary Macgregor in the movie Rob 
Roy. I pointed out how the movie 
failed to show how the rape and its 
consequences affected Mary, because 
we only saw Rob Roys reaction. After 
seeing this movie I talked with many 
people about it. I was surprised to find 
that most did not recognize this biased 
representation. In fact, one person com
mented that it was a good date movie, 
with five or six sex scenes. I won
dered if he counted the rape scene as 
one of the good sex scenes?
This persons comment shows how 
warped peoples perceptions are of vio
lent sex scenes in movies. All too often, 
the differences between rape- scenes 
and sex scenes become blurred, so we 
accept what should digust us and dis
regard its underlying implications. 
Also, such violent portrayals of sex 
help perpetuate the stereotype that 
women like to be raped.
So why do we accept these images 
and think they are normal sexual 
behavior? Well, its primarily because 
patriarchy is so ingrained in our soci
ety that we often fail to recognize its 
harmful effects on women. At times it 
seems that maybe this is the way things 
should be; after all, we have no models 
to follow that arent strictly patriar
chal. But we really do. Unfortunately, 
the history we have learned has con
veniently left out societies in which 
patriarchy is not the rule. An example 
of such a society is the Iroquois na
tions. In most Native American na
tions, women were respected, not vio
lated. This great regard for the per
son of woman was not limit to the 
persons of native Iroquois women, but 
women of alien blood and origin shared 
with them this respect, wrote J.N.B. 
Hewitt, a member of the Tuscarora 
nation, about the treatment of women 
by the Iroquois.
The image of Native Americans por
trayed by old Western movies as mer
ciless savages, is highly exaggerated 
and biased. Most of the Iroquois na
tions were matrilineal, meaning the 
women passed on all property and 
family status. When a couple married 
they moved in with the womans side 
of the family. And in times of war, the 
men had to obtain permission from 
the women to fight.
Why did women have so much power 
in Native American society? Because 
men valued and respected womens 
economic, political, social, and spiri
tual contributions.
Today, womens contributions con
tinue to be minimized. Women are 
paid less than men and receive fewer 
promotions than men.
Also, the contributions expected 
from women continue to be unappre
ciated by society. For example, take a 
construction worker and a day care 
worker; who is paid more? The con
struction worker, of course. Why is 
there a pay discrepancy? Arent chil
dren an important asset to our fu
ture? True, but child rearing is 
womens work, and therefore less 
valuable than construction, which is 
mens work.
Besides, if we lessened the value of 
construction, what would we do with 
all the leftover, undeveloped land? 
And what would women do without 
having construction workers to make 
cat calls and whistle at them?
Suzanne Paddock is a senior English 
major.
Halloween inspires tricks, treats
By ANNEMARIE DEVINE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
With Halloween approaching rapidly, 
CMU students are ignoring the adage 
that they are too old for trick-or-treating 
and are gettinginto the Halloween spirit. 
Students from around the campus are 
enjoying the ghoulish season by partici
pating in events from masquerade balls 
to trick-or-treating, to parties.
Students who were planning to go
All photos by Yuzo Watanabe/Tartan Photographer 
This student relaxes with a variety of ghoulish pals.
which of the RAs had com-trick-or-treating said they would prob
ably go to Shadyside or Squirrel Hill, 
and possibly to the CMU dorms. Justin 
Crout, a senior MechE, said, I think 
were too big [to go trick or treating]. My 
girlfriend and I dont get to go because 
we have night classes. He was plan
ning to go to the Theta Xi party dressed 
as an old man (wrinkles provided by a 
mask).
Bob Brosius, a junior public policy and 
management student, planned to collect 
free candy too. Im taking my little 
brother trick-or-treating. Hes one year 
old.
dress up for Halloween, even if they 
were attending costume parties. Others 
were sticking to the old standbys of vam
pires, French maids, and cross-dress
ing. Steve Kaufman, senior MechE 
major, didnt like the latter idea. He 
said, I wouldnt do that thing where you 
dress up like a girl. Thats where I draw 
the line. More creative costumes in
cluded Grimace from McDonalds, a 
Baroque lady (complete with mole), a 
droog from A Clockwork Orange, and a 
god that has a pumpkin 
head.
Kevin Meehan, a junior 
creative writing major and 
Dossier editor, said, There 
are about five different par
ties that Im going to at this 
point  most of which will 
be good enough that I wont 
remember much about them 
afterward. Just about ev
ery fraternity on campus 
threw a Halloween party 
and ResLife also got into 
the act. Saturday night 
brought a murder-mystery 
cocktail party to Mudge, 
along with an After Hours 
Masquerade Ball. The cock
tail party was based on the 
game Clue 
and the 
guests had to 
figure out
ing Mudges neighbors on Devonshire 
Drive, who were understanding about 
the noise.
Mudge residents also decorated their 
hallways to welcome the children of CMU 
faculty. The kids participated in what 
has become a tradition by trick-or-treating throughout the dorm. The trick-ortreaters were entertained with games in 
the courtyard.Night of the Living Disco 
was another Saturday night party, 
thrown by Scotch n Soda and Ballroom 
Dancing. Lisa Kouvolo, a psychology 
major and Scotch n Soda PR director, 
promised that sexy vampires, jokers, 
and jesters galore would attend, along 
with anyone who was anyone with a 
leisure suit or cool makeup.
The masquerade ball included two 
dance floors, DJs with a mix of music, 
refreshments, and dance demonstrations 
by Ballroom Dancing.
Other plans include fulfilling the tricks 
of trick-or-treating. Some were planning 
to do more tricks than treating in 
Morewood Gardens.People that are plan
ning to do good on Halloween might be 
donating blood in West Wing on Tues
day. Sponsored by SDC and ResLife, the 
blood drive is in response to the great 
need for blood in the area. You never 
know when a vampire might strike...
mitted the murder.
The After Hours party 
was held after the cocktail 
party. With food and Hal
loween decorations galore, 
we are holding the dance 
with a D J as well as light
ing effects in the Mudge 
Courtyard, said Mudge 
RA Lester Manzano, a 
junior psychology major. 
Costumes were optional, 
but encouraged. Everyone 
was invited to come to the
Many students were not planning to After Hours party, includ- Students twist and shout at a recent Halloween party.
Phi Beta Kappa members of the university 
community extend their congratulations to 
the following students and alumni/ae who 
were initiated into membership into Upsilon 
of Pennsylvania, Carnegie Mellons Phi Beta 
Kappa chapter, on Sunday, October 15, 1995.
College of Fine Arts:
Colleen Cosgrove
College of Humanities & 
Social Sciences:
Eric Applewhite 
Lawenda Jones 
Sharon Kristoff 
Michael Matthew 
Heather Miles 
Kimberly Nolan 
Michelle Rozzi 
Edward Slavishak 
D. Jason Wyse
Industrial Management:
Daryl Davis 
Brian Smith
Mellon College of Science:
Nicole Abinanti 
Sonika Bhatnagar 
Alexandra Gindin 
David Hackney 
J. Dianne Keen 
Bethany Knapp 
Kurt Miller 
Andrea Santoro 
Barbara Thompson
School of Computer Science:
Alon Brown 
Franklin Chang 
Scott Colville 
Adam Klivans 
Andrew Ng 
Daniel Richards 
Jordan Tsvetskoff
dobCiujMcCo
Kv..cCo
yuuE eTEb UuwUuDuEWETsuD .K Ebu S.UH y.E.U P.zwW1g
AND YOULL OET A TASTE OF THE 2 I ST CENTURY. OUR
rGTuuUTG wU.KuDDT.WqD WUu ADTG YAEETG uHGu
TECHNOLOGY TO TAKE FORD INTO THE NEW ERA, AS OUR
jADTuDD wU.KuDDT.WqD WUu wU.wuqqTG AD TE. Ebu
NEXT GENERATION WITH THEIR SALES 5. MARKETING AND
STWYu WTqTETuDX
oK 1.A GUWHAWEu eTEb W HuGUuu T rGTuuUTG rquYEUTYWqg 
P.zwAEuUg yuYbWTYWqg oK.UzWET. MuEe.U9TGg .U 
yWAKWYEAUTG0 .U jADTuDD oHADEUTWq yWWGuzuEg 
rY..zTYDg d.qTY1 4 yWWGuzuEg yWWGuUTWq rY..zTYDg 
.U STWYu0g Y.zu q..9 TE. ebWE S.UH bWD E. .KKuUX
3.6E zTDD EbTD ATIAu .ww.UEATE1 E. EW9u 1.AU EWquED 
TE. Ebu KAEAUu eTEb Ebu S.UH y.E.U P.zwW1X mu q..9
FORWARD TO MEETING YOUl
Z.. Amerircera cenarmec Jir ouiaAJ..l AmfAera eu Jeerma Jm
INFORMATION SESSION
3.buUE1 tWqqg N..z  o x 
7 PM - 9 PM 
muHuDHW1g M.suzuU 
Sircc Ac oJcnJ.g yrTirchOrmec zA.. tr xiufAarag
j1 Yb.TYuX S.UH y.E.U P.zwW1 TD W rIAWq Rww.UEATE1 rzwq.1uUX

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  30 October 1995
Weinglass defends Mumia
By SHANNON GIBNEY
Tartan Features Editor
Leonard Weinglass, chief de
fense counsel for award-winning 
journalist Mumia Abu-Jamal, 
came to CMU Tuesday to address 
issues surrounding his clients 
placement on death row. The lo
cal Free Mumia Abu-Jamal 
chapter, the Political Speakers 
Forum Board, and the H&SS po
litical speakers program spon
sored the event, which took place 
at 7 pm in DH 2210. It was at
tended by a mixed crowd of CMU 
grads, undergrads, and members 
of the Pittsburgh community.
Abu-Jamal, a radio journalist 
and former Black Panther mem
ber, was convicted of the murder 
of a Philadelphian police officer 
in 1982, and was subsequently 
sentenced to death in the state of 
Pennsylvania. Weinglass, other 
defense members, and various 
political groups nationwide have 
been mobilizing ever since. They 
believe that there are a number 
of holes in the prosecutions testi
mony which prove Abu-Jamals 
innocence. Weinglass speech was 
part of this national movement to 
vindicate Mumia, and challenge 
the predominance of the death 
penalty in this country.
Dr. Claire Cohn, Child psy
chologist and Educator at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, introduced 
Weinglass. She said, Leonard 
Weinglass has been defending 
political cases arising out of the 
movement for peace and civil 
rights out of the United States for 
over 30 years. He has served as 
counsel for such well-known cases
as the Proud Seven, the Penta
gon papers Trial. He has also 
defended a series of death-penalty cases in Georgia, Alabama, 
and Washington state, and as
sisted in the defense of [political 
activist] Angela Davis.
Over the years, he has served 
as an official observer in trials in 
Asia, Europe, and South America. 
...Currently, he practices law solo, 
out of his office in New York City, 
and he his presently the chief 
defense counsel for internationally recognized political prisoner 
... Mumia Abu-Jamal, she said.
Mumia has asked me when
ever I speak that I speak not just 
for his case, but also for all his 
brothers and sisters on death row, 
now numbering over 3,000.1 cant 
speak ... for the 302 that have 
already been executed since 1977 
when the death penalty was re
stored in the United States, or for 
the 18,000 who have been ex
ecuted since the start of the coun
try. But I can speak about 
Mumias case, and I can speak
about the ones who are waiting in 
that long line for their day of 
execution, said Weinglass.
One thing is very clear: the 
death penalty is internationally 
known as unacceptable. There is 
not a country in the industrial
ized West, with the exception of 
the United States, that still has 
the death penalty. Mumias case 
... is an indication of why the 
death penalty is untenable in the 
United States, said Weinglass.
Weinglass went on to explain 
that Mumia was a victim of the 
social and political powers in 70s 
and 80s Philadelphia. He said 
that Mumia, a young broadcast 
journalist and member of the 
Black Panthers, was particularly 
vulernable to these forces, as he 
spoke out against the widespread 
mistreatment of Blacks by the 
police.
He asserted that these power
ful individuals wanted to silence 
Mumia, so they framed him for 
the murder of the police officer. 
Weinglass stated that they used 
such tactics as questioning only 
witnesses whom they knew would 
give certain answers, fabricating 
official police evidence, and cre
ating an unfair jury, among oth
ers.
In Mumias case we see the 
politicization of the death pen
alty. We see the impact of race. 
We see the impact of resources, 
the impact of wealth and 
poverty...And so we see the en
tire process that taints and in
fects the most crucial decision to 
be made in a organized society: 
who shall live, and who shall die, 
said Weinglass.
Pressure builds on campus
fe*.
Exploring CMU
by Andrew Wang
stress Ystres\ n ... 2 : a 
factor that induces bodily 
or mental tension; also : a 
state induced by such a 
stress.
 The New MerriamWebster Dictionary
Most CMU students know 
the meaning of stress all 
too well. Fifty random 
Cut-wandering stu
dents were sur
veyed on how 
stressful they 
found CMU and 
how they deal 
with stress. The 
overall survey 
group rated 
stress at CMU 
an average of
7.15 on a scale of 1 to 10 with 10 
being the most stressful.
The average stress ratings of 
CIT and H&SS students in the 
group were lower than the rat
ings of the overall survey group. 
CIT students in the survey 
group felt the least stress, giv
ing an average rating of 6.57. 
The H&SS students rated their 
stress an average of 6.86.
These results might mean 
that CIT and H&SS students 
are under less stress, or that 
they are better at dealing with
stress, or both. Perhaps there is 
some truth in the joke about H 
and less stress.
Students from MCS, CFA, SCS, 
and IM had higher average stress 
ratings than the overall survey 
group. MCS, SCS, and CFA stu
dents in the survey group rated 
their average stress levels at 7.3, 
7.7, and 7.8 respectively, while 
IM students in the group rated 
their average stress level at a 9.
Mark Eggert/Tartan Artist
Of the different undergraduate 
class years, sophomores in the 
study group rated their stress 
the lowest, at an average of 7.27, 
while the seniors rated their 
stress the highest, at an average 
of 8.56. The freshmen and the 
juniors in the group rated their 
stresses in between, with 7.30 
and 7.43, respectively.Graduate 
students and professors who par
ticipated in the survey rated their 
stress much lower than the un
dergraduates, averaging a 6.83.
What do people at CMU do to
deal with stress? The three most 
popular answers were sports and 
exercise, sleep, and nothing, 
average, people in the survey! 
group who exercised or did sporty 
to relieve stress rated their aver, 
age stress at 7.62 on a scale oflo 
1. Sleep 2. Sleep 3. P]ay 
Magic (okay, Im a geek!), said 
Gautam Srikanth, a freshman in 
ECE and CS. The people in the 
survey group who sleep to relieve 
stress had an average stress of 
only 6.96.
I sit in my room and do nothing until I can start to think 
straight again, said Jennifer 
Daddino, a freshman in H&SS. 
People in the survey group who 
did nothing to relieve there stress 
^ rated their stress lev. 
els an average of 
7.5.
Some other 
methods people 
in the survey 
group use torelieve stress are: 
hitting things, 
spending time 
with friends, 
taking stress 
out on friends, watch TV, listen
ing to music, playing violent com
puter games, go off-campus, 
drinking, having sex, and 
smoking. Some people need stress 
to thrive while others can do with
out stress. Some students are 
polished and toughened by stress, 
while others are transformed to 
ragged weary souls by it. Stress 
is part of CMU, whether people 
can deal with it or not.
Andrew Wang is a sophomon 
ECE /CS major.
Get an inside look at eating disorders through eyes of an anorexic
By KAORIAOYAMA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
[Ed. Note: The following is an 
interview with an anonymous 
CMU student who is recovering 
from anorexia nervosa.].
When did you realize that 
you have an eating disorder?
I didnt really know that I had a 
problem until one day, I realized 
that I was starving myself. I was 
constantly hungry but I had de
veloped a sort of immunity to 
the feeling of hunger. I didnt eat 
because I felt it would make me 
fat, although I was already 
undereating and that the amount 
of food that I craved couldnt 
cause any significant weightgain.
However, I constantly denied 
my problem until I became aware 
that I had the symptoms of
Low Stud(liv 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland]
FORUM TRAVEL 
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
anorexia nervosa ... my hair 
started to fall out, my skin 
changed into a slightly odd color,' 
and I lost my period. I was also 
tired all of the time, sometimes 
not having the energy to walk 
home from school.
How did your family, rela
tives, and friends react to your 
not eating?
I was always irritable and de
pressed, and I became strongly 
anti-social and moody. Whenever 
the people around me tried to get 
me to eat, I refused and accused 
them of trying to make me fat. 
They knew I was significantly 
reducing the amount of food and 
the kinds of food I ate, but no one 
could really tell how much I was 
eating for the day, because I was 
so busy with school and occupied 
with homework,activities, and
hanging around with my friends.
No one could monitor my eat
ing habits completely. And that 
was how I got away with not 
eating. Everyone expressed con
cern for me but I turned them all 
away.
However, it was with my friends 
and their support that I was able 
to realize my problem and seek 
help. I owe them so much, my life, 
my self-esteem. They are all im
portant to me and I will never be 
able to repay their support, kind
ness, and patience.
How did you feel when you 
were anorexic?
I felt alone. I was always suspi
cious of everybody and very 
ashamed of what I had for lunch 
everyday at school. My friends 
thought that it was strange how 
little I ate everyday. Yet, I kept
up the act that I was full, and 
that I couldnt eat another bite. 
In reality, though, I was starv
ing.
Do you regret the fact that 
you had an eating disorder?
Actually, I learned a lot from 
my eating problem. When I nearly 
had a nervous breakdown from 
coping with my anorexia, and I 
was taken to the emergency room 
from overdosing on these stupid 
pills I was taking to maintain my 
weight, I came really close to dy
ing.
As I was waiting for the doctors 
to tell me that I was dying, I felt 
sadness and regret that I spent a 
whole year worrying about how 
others perceive me from the exte
rior, and deliberately restricted 
myself from feeling pleasure and 
food.
I lost a lot of friends that year. 
I missed out on many opportuni
ties that came into my direction, 
all because I was spending so 
much time being concerned about 
my weight. I was miserable.
After all that I went through, I 
was able to come to the realiza
tion about many things. First, I 
realized that life is there to be 
enjoyed. Youre not living life, in 
my opinion, if you are not taking 
advantage of the opportunities 
and really appreciating what you 
actually have. Secondly, I real
ized that maintaining good health 
is so important. This might sound 
strange but your body is some
thing that you need to experi
ence. I cant stress how impor
tant taking care of your health is.
Why did you agree to have 
this interview?
I know that many people are
struggling at CMU to find a place 
in society that they would belong 
in, to find control and meaningin 
their lives.
I know that many people care 
about their appearance and im
age. I know that many people try 
hard to be accepted or accept 
themselves by turning to bodyweight, calories, and fat grams.
I just want people to realize, oi 
to be able to experience the plea
sures and the enjoyment of living 
life. This. means experiencing 
emotions like love and being ac
cepted. It even means feeling each 
emotion completely, and not onlj 
halfway. If you do have a prol> 
lem, turn to people for help. If no! 
a close friend, talk to a counselor 
or peer support group. It is defi
nitely worth it to talk to others 
who experienced just as much as 
you did, suffered and tried to gaii 
control by controlling weight.
Everyone Welcome
Albriglit United 
Methodists
Sundays 11am
Va Pktajj at S<M3ira
MM likeneedanomer eXcaise to
get ofP campus. ^J15%
AMTRAK
Hang out with your old friends. 
Take your laundry home, and 
eat some real food. Whatever 
the reason, when you get a 
Student Advantage Card, you can 
get away on Amtrak for 15 j> 
less. You wont be crammed into 
a oar with five other people.
Or stuck on a bus out in the
middle of nowhere. And your 
discount is good for travel on 
almost every Amtrak train.
To get a Student Advantage 
Card call 1-800-96vWyaNWFX 
And to make reservations, 
call your travel agent or 
Amtrak at 1-800vhlWvrWooX 
Now stop making excuses.MTR A K
* fifteen percent discount good on all rail fores except peak hour weekday MetralinerService, muhkide ond government fores. On Auto Trainfifteen percent discount is good on outo fare only. Other restrictions may oppty.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  30 October 1995L5
IVCF offers philosophical talk
1 o w n 
speaker
By HANJAY KIM
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Why should anyone believe 
anything at all? is the ques
tion that Jim Sire holds to be 
absolutely essential. On No
vember 2 and ___________
3, this ree d 
and
Senior Editor 
at InterVarsity 
press, will be 
on campus to 
talk with the
campus com- ---------------------
munityonwhy
this is one question that cant 
be ignored. Sponsored by 
InterVarsity Christian Fellow
ship, Thursdays event will in
volve a dialogue session with 
the members of the audience, 
and Friday will involve Sire 
giving his presentation on the 
conclusion he arrived at from 
asking this question. Sire has 
been challenging people with 
this issue for many years. He 
has spoken to students on this 
topic at more than 150 colleges 
and universities throughout the 
U.S., as well as other parts of 
the world. He was last here in 
1989.
We believe. Thats what we 
do to live. Believing is like
breathing: We do it, but we only 
know we are doing it when some
thing draws our attention to it.... 
From the simple matter of believ
ing that my computer will work 
when I turn it on to the much 
more questionable belief that my
member of IVCF, agrees. He 
said, You have to believe in 
something, and its important 
that what you believe in makes 
sense.
During the November 2 ses
sion, entitled, Why Should
"Believing is like breathing: We do it, but we 
only know we are doing it when something 
draws our attention to it. 
Jim Sire, Senior Editor at InterVarsity Press
broker is honest or my fiance 
loves me in ways she loves no one 
else, everything I do is predicated 
on belief, Sire wrote in his book 
titled by the same question.
I think people hold a lot of 
beliefs without knowing why, 
said Phil Gomez, president of the 
CMU chapter of IVCF and a se
nior professional and creative 
writing major.
I think this will be of use to 
the students in terms of helping 
them to analyze the ideas and 
things theyve held for a long time. 
Whether youve been raised in a 
religious family or not, everybody 
believes something.
Mike Nonemacher, a junior 
computer science major and a
Anyone Believe in Anything at 
All?, Sire will explore the ba
sis of belief. He will take sug
gestions from the audience and 
from there converse with them 
in determining which sugges
tion is valid. During the Fri
day session entitled Reason 
Enough, Sire will offer what 
he believes to be valid. The 
IVCF assures that these nights 
will provide ideal opportuni
ties for anyone interested in a 
lively discussion concerning 
epistemology and faith. The 
Thursday meeting will be held 
in the Donner Reading Room 
at 9 pm, and the Friday meet
ing will be in Pipers Cafe at 8 
pm.
Brother of anorexic speaks out
FAMILY, from PAGE L2
and the next day it would be 
something else.
She bore the brunt of it, I 
suppose. When she was in 
the hospital, I would always 
bring a mutual friend, Betsy, 
to take pressure away from 
the situation. She was really 
upbeat and kept the mood 
light. Lately weve made 
more efforts to call, but I 
dont know how to respond to 
her. I mean, well bullshit 
about something or the other 
and then Ill say, So really, 
how are you?
I honestly think shes do
ing a lot better. This summer 
my parents and I went to see 
her in Florida for a family 
counseling session, which 
was extremely confronta
tional. Im much less effu
sive than shes ever been,
and when put on the spot, I really 
floundered. I said dumb things 
that werent a big deal to anyone 
else, but I wish I hadnt said them.
Ellen works in retail in Tampa 
and is no longer in treatment. I 
think that being on her own has 
made the biggest difference, al
though the seven years of hospi
talization has left an effect on her 
personality. We took her to 
Disney, and shes chronically re
sistant to our efforts to appease 
her. She lives by a schedule that 
you just dont ask her to fuck 
with. When I wake up at 8, shes 
already eaten or not eaten, show
ered, and gone for a walk. The 
hospital is so safe for her  its 
like school. Im not saying that 
this is a negative thing; its just 
trying for those who are around 
her. One of the worst things is 
that I really resent the disease 
for all the time shes lost. Her life
is starting right now, and she 
knows better than anyone else 
that shes going to do great 
things. Shes always been a 
figure in my life for whom Ive 
had immense respect, with so 
much more potential than me.
I try to imagine my family in 
the next few years, and I feel 
like we have an opportunity, 
finally, to interact without hav
ing to dodge my sisters condi
tion. Were only going to get 
stronger from here; Im certain 
of it. The experience has made 
want me to get to know my 
parents better; I have more 
respect for family now. My par
ents are very religious, some
thing I cant grasp. The amount 
of prayer thats gone toward 
my sister and what weve been 
through dont match up for me. 
I think now we can act like 
people again.
Please Recycle this newspaper!
THE TARTAN
Carnegie throws free party
SORRENTO'S
PIZZA.
Come spend dome time Ln Italy. 
233 Atwood Street, Oakland 
621-9129
Many different types of Pizzas, Hoagies, and Pasta Dinners. 
Salads  Baked Italian Hot Wings  Calzone 
Dine in or take out.
HOURS FREE DELIVERY (limited)
Mon-Fri 1 lam-1 lpm LUNCH
Sat 4pm-1 lpm Mon-Fri 1 lam-2pm
Sun CLOSED DINNER
Mon- Fri A :30pm-11 pm
16" traditional 
cheese fiditi, 
12" italian 
hoagiear
two 12" italien 
hoagies and 1 
liter of Coke
f
0$
+TAX+TAX
16" traditional 
cheese pizza 
one topping
M
4?$699
By TRICIA DAVIS
Tartan Staffwriter
If you like contemporary art, 
free food, refreshments and en
tertainment, then head over to 
the Carnegie Museum of Art on 
November 6, and join in the 1995 
Carnegie International celebra
tion. The festivities will take 
place from 6 pm - 9pm. The 
event is a free private re
ception in the Museum of 
Art foyer and galleries 
that is being held for all 
college and university 
students, faculty and 
staff in the area. Proper 
identification is required 
to participate in this ex
citing event.
This is a unique oppor
tunity to view the more 
than 272 contemporary 
works featured in the 
1995 Carnegie Interna
tional. In addition to this 
tour, guests will enjoy 
free food, cappuccino, and musi
cal entertainment. The popular 
jazz, rock, and funk instrumen
tal quintet, Watershed, will per
form that evening.
The exhibition, which is held 
every three years, is known 
throughout the world for its di
versity of contemporary art and 
artists. Painting, sculpture, film, 
and video installations by 36 art
ists from 16 countries will be on 
view from Sunday, November 5,
Carnegie Museum of Art. Mr. 
Armstrong was assisted by Ms. 
Bice Curiger, editor of Parkett 
magazine and curator of the 
Kunsthaus, Zurich; Mr. Mark 
Rosenthal, curator of 20th-cen
tury art at the National Gallery, 
Washington, D.C.; and Mr. 
Vicente Todoli, curator of con
temporary art at IVAM, Valencia, 
Spain.Linda Tonetti, assistant 
curator of education, coordinated
All photos courtesy of The Carnegie Museum of Art 
Therriens work will be on display during the celebration.
the programs surrounding the 
1995 Carnegie International cel
ebration. Mrs. Tonetti expects a 
large crowd on November 6. She 
said, We know that 400 students 
are attending already. A large 
number of students are visiting 
from Slippery Rock University, 
West Virginia University, and St. 
Francis College.
Mrs. Tonetti said, It [the 
Carnegie International party] is 
an informal celebration of the International and 
the centen
nial. Weve 
been work
ing on the 
celebra
tion for the 
past year, 
and were 
excited 
about how 
it has 
turned 
out. 
Mrs. 
Tonetti 
said that 34 of the 36 artists fea
tured in the exhibition are living, 
and most of them will be in town 
for the opening weekend.
The artists featured in the ex
hibition are young and old, rang
ing between 32 and 82 years of 
age, she said.
Some of the artists partjpipatinginthe exhibition are unknown
The Carnegie presents Whitereads Untitled nect week, 
1995, through Sunday, Febru
ary 18,1996. This celebration is 
the 52nd exhibition of contempo
rary art surveys and marks the 
centennial of the Carnegie Insti
tute, founded by Andrew 
Carnegie in 1895.
The works in the exhibition 
were organized by Richard 
Armstrong, chief curator of the
to audiences outside of their home 
countries, such as Rob Birza (b. 
1962, Netherlands), Tomoharu 
Murakami (b. 1938, Japan), Doris 
Salcedo (b. 1958, Colombia), and 
Beatriz Milhazes (b. 1960, Bra
zil). Birza and Salcedo incorpo
rate furniture into their sculp
tural installations.
Mrs. Tonetti pointed out that 
furniture is a recurring motif of 
the exhibition. The most notice
able exhibit of this 
kind is Robert 
Therriens (b. 
1947, USA) Under 
the Table. I was 
able to view this 
exhibit during the 
interview, and it 
is remarkable. 
Under the Table 
is an 11-foot by 
18-foot table sur
rounded by six 9- 
foot high chairs.
Other interest
ing exhibits in
clude a socially 
interactive exhibit created by 
Rirkrit Tiravanija(b. 1961, USA). 
As part of the exhibit, he will be 
serving curried rice daily in the 
museums Sculpture Court.
Mrs. Tonetti hopes that CMU 
students will volunteer next week 
and help cook in the exhibit. To 
sign up, students should stop by 
the volunteering office. In the 
same area, Per Kirikeby (b. 1938, 
Copenhagen, Denmark) will con
struct a brick sculpture, his first 
in North America.
Other exciting upcoming events 
include the 1995 Carnegie In
ternational: Evening for Educa
tors. This is a chance to meet 
and discuss art with Richard 
Armstrong, curator of the Inter
national, and Rirkrit Tiravanija, 
one of the artists in the exhibi
tion.
It will be held on Thursday, 
November 16, 1995, from 4-8 
pm at the Carnegie Museum of 
Art. Registration is $15 and in
cludes education materials and 
dinner.
During January and-February, 
you can attend programs such as 
the Artists Responses to the 
1995 Carnegie International. 
This enables guests to learn how 
local artists respond to the work 
of the International artists.
For more information about 
these or many of the other events 
surrounding the 1995 Carnegie 
International, call 622-3222.
+TAX
L.. WILLIAMSBURG,
9
The performance experience of a lifetime is waiting for you at Busch Gardens in Williamsburg, Virginia. Join ustor a chance to be part of a spectacular show and a great entertainment tradition.
No other place can offer you a package like this: eight high performance mainstage snows; a tremendous variety of strolling entertainment: a dedicated staff that cares about developing your talent; plus FREE classes in dance, voice and drama. We also have an excellent sports medicine program and a housing coordinator to help you find the best accommodations. All of this plus FREE access to one of the most beautiful theme parks in the world!
More than 250 terrific positions are 
now available for:
 Singers  Dancers  Musicians  Actors  Variety Artists
 Technicians 
(including stage managers, audio engineers, 
lighting anti follow spot operators and wardrobe 
dressers with sewing experience)
Sound exciting? It is! Plan on starting your experience of a lifetime at Busch Gardens/Williamsburg Auditions 1996. Bring your best 11/2 minute act to the audition location nearest you. 
If chosen you can begin working weekends from February through April and full-time from May through October 1996. 
For more information, call: (800) 253-3302. Or write to: Auditions, c/o Busch Gardens Entertainment, One Busch Gardens Blvd., Williamsburg, VA 23187-8785. An equal 
opportunity employer.
Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania
Saturday, November 11th 
2:30p.m.-6:30p.m. 
Point Park College 
Lawrence Hall, Studio 101 
201 Wood Street

---------------------------------------------------

m KIOS, OH WORRY'S SHOW MO THU., ILL BE BRINGING A BIG 
SURPRISE/ WILL IT SUOQC AHD AM ME XOVJ... O WU. \T DISGUST AMD TERR\H XCM ?.p FIND OOT TOMORROW WEH I &ENEAL M* NEXT SUM AND TELL HORROR! OONT MRS \T.'
RETURNING TO ) THATS CAU-ED A 
THE LESSON... ' TEASER. BH THE 
WASDILBERT  by Scott Adams
WE'VE DECIDED TO 
REVOKE. YOUR ANGEL 
STATUS. YOU'RE GIVING 
US ALL A BAD NA/AE.
YOUR PROBLEM 15 THAT 
YOU DEFINE "HEALING" 
TOO NARROWLY. I'M 
MAKING OGLY PEOPLE 
LOOK ATTRACTIVE, AND 
THAT'5 IMPORTANT,TOO.
IS IT TOO LATE TO 
GO BACK TO /AY 
OLD LOOK7
COHY? YOU'RE 
BEAUTIFUL.'
CAROL, ABOUT THIS 
FLIGHT TO NEU) YORK 
THAT YOU BOOKED 
FOR ME...
IS IT REALLY NECESSARY 
TO MAKE ALL THE5E 
STOPOVER5 IN THIRDWORLD COUNTRIES 
THAT ARE EXPERIENCING 
REBEL INSURRECTIONS'!1
as
YOU'D BETTER WEAR 
THE INTERNATIONAL 
SY/ABOL OF THE "RED 
CROSS" ON YOUR 
BACK.
TERRIBLE NEWS:
MY BOSS ASSIGNED 
ME TO A FUN AND 
VALUABLE PROTECT.
UH-OH. THAT MEANS AT 
LEAST THREE ^RONS (JILL 
BE ASSIGNED TO SIMILAR 
PROTECTS. YOU MUST FIND 
THEM AND CRUSH
CARL, OLD BUDDY,
UHATCHA (----
OORKIN' ON 
THESE DAYS?
GJALLY AND I HAVE A 
BET ABOUT WHY YOU 
ASSIGNED WE TO THE 
SAttE TASK AS THREE 
OTHER PEOPLE.
THREE OTHER 
PEOPLE ASKED 
FORTHAT SAttE_ 
INFORMATION. - 
YOU MUST BE ON 
REDUNDANT 
PROTECTS.
)
'iT LOOKS LIKE SOftEBODY^ 
IS USING BINDERS TO 
ILLEGALLY INCREASE THE 
SIZE OF HIS CUBICLE.
I BELIEVE ITS A CLEVER 
PLOY TO CREATE HEALTHY 
INTERNAL COMPETITION. 
WALLY THINKS YOU'RE 
JUST DUMBER THAN THE 
AVERAGE. CAULIFLOWER.
YOU THINK YOUR STATUS 
WILL INCREASE WITH 
YOUR CUBICLE SIZE, 
DON'T YOU! LUELL, IT 
WON'T WORK.1
HERE'S A BIG BINDER 
WHICH AT FIR5T GLANCE 
SEEMS USEFUL, BUT 
YOU'LL REALIZE 
LATER IT'S NOT.
o6?r -Ra DAUuX I'M USING 
AvFEW THEM TO BUILD
MORE AN ADDITION
USELESS TO MY CUBICLE. 
BINDERS.
DO YOU 
WANT 'EM?

---------------------------------------------------

:wswMi!
YOU ODWARfc! 
Com. OYftA
rw Mt!
I'LL FViHT 
XOO NEJCT, 
YDUHfc, /AM
l~Tt? SE. tCHTINUED.,
I<iq5 8"? MAtr 
&RDCNMG
ufe m
NOW UVIT A KMOUTE.THATf NOT Rlbur. 1-M GOIUC, TOCO RAIK CWTlIOS A*0 (oMt l>d 1 III AGAIN. UfLL/ o.\\ VJTABT OVA.
6b.u5gJ6ytRbrXELLO,
/PERHAPS TS 
KlEAOlN6,61Z. 4 
Dg5/6tJEt?Tb DR.1VE 
\ Hf iNAME/-r
EVFiJ Trif JJEELE- i 
CM^fETR, Wif~H /ill rtS "StAT 
fWlr-J6," W SALVE THE < 
WESTiaiJMAift's utftsrr ) 
^ftoPLT/y-------
WAIT. LtTt NOT 0OTWIS. 0JE Mo TlHfc, I'M GOING TO bo 0>/Ttl0t ANO f OME y 1----------- BACK KJ./CalaendrHELLO,SMELM.tLAK\
LOOK, I KNOU V> CAU THIS AlOMT.TMl UTME TIMtl'H GOIN6TO OOI LtT UORfcTOGfcTUIl, i
f HELLO, > rSO 6RtAT SI6 06M* , y.SLOB. J
f \^,KfM, IT'S ME, youR 
|E JCtcK", THE FtyM x 
2IATUUuq$ SrySyjrN20
SCOMaA6.qo6mb.buXH6LLO,Puicsy.lTWz
rcM\Gt HELP 'js<J X 
R6HT CRIME? HuH?
1? CAN 1? ftEASf? i.
^Ho'fiuCAH'T.O -J~ /
"~7 rtre vilpbhpA 
( the all iwy workatyumsTHe / T, 
I LATE NI6HV 5Eplf4<i QiUES, < ^
you'RE BREAKS COWN.' //
S- 5uPERHeROl5 H^ET 60M Tb^~~ 
(VouP. HEAD/ I rtT SETAm EXAAPt-F
Do y.z know 
where y ou-'rfi"from 
or yvhat shi'p you 
were on?C~
own
Lef rrie Somethin g[Does your head f>ur+?X don'T know. 
X j ust C Q nM-1 remembr.
O kA dpS yloh A/oW, 
PCSN'r MonM mean
mmcrrfttfs /<wp
dZZ
OH, K.l6Hr/ l'P SerrtR 60 RESCUE 
' v HE-R/ ,
No, MMT/ 
MMfW/

---------------------------------------------------

EPISODE 7 DANIEL YAUGER
E195Uh5ic5hO IS AN IDEA,AND A5 Uu1 IS INDESTRUCTIBLE AND IMORTAL, LIKE EVERY IDEA." -HEINRICH HEINE
Eealltv
XXXX o98 WHltvj 'LA6>&- PR-iesf Leo ft-tJD Le*Dfcft 2p$dtp:2lp. R.eftPPfcArR., ..
\JTX CoRp CE* RAM(i?
Fte&s A &Ro*f> op pfi*-Tsrc(K. 
A 4 6ft. y oi/&R. THE CjttVfiHHi 
PutfCrtASfc OP -rMat 
C\T^'S RftOlO ST^TIOM...
tftMW1. ik'd Tti&/1Au. P>l&MT, Vau LA1V....
UJKftT..? p:2AT6 i $ HOuup 
HAVE ?R.Y.2m
I THoUfoHT THE GMotJ was K66P1O6. Yu 
.z <v Ei6> 9EuB LgftsH eYz vEbWE 2 
<WO Sociamvt gUDihei) UfirD
S^CCEtDtO ItJ PeUU TH irA)lilSflt'/
0*AT OF THl'b VfiruEi?
we de HtRt
fbfcCA<4S '/ou fi-&
jRy iiii> T PuAtJOfeft 
T^ AibiViM  
NuoftS^ over pt>P~ 
f, gjwvck: ft'*.0*- AT 
-fte gicptwse of 
crrrtei*-S, Af^'r
/VIJDfc&O?
\^Vvp%~
uTy &0T Fftr .sif wefturHV Dv
THe BACKS .w ayPDr MEfJ  Ac z. 
wMetJ De^lD&P You'd M-TH6R. 
PiAV \W ReftL. ESTATE: AMD >W |>^AU 
S-ntfeT THfriJ MAKE vre&l, YOM 
LFT. WHPiT Pots UTjC ST\l.1
Iy wA-y ?
we KAvce M^gy. QrfrrtvuSfi 
THAT^PiUvJftTb
^ <^S> I 
(HsL-~nMEvJZ DofJ'T / 
wftrT FOR- rH PwfoMC- / 
ipout -ro s/We us uce
-THIS. t^T ^HY, 
fooiiJfr r ~Th A- ftlW 
uJS' /
ei/gutf THi& l/AwP^"^HaT 2u7
A R.W6(l><>lVT fcM&upk 
f^ciHTy MD voc*vp-K..

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 90, Issue 5The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania30 October 1995
Kresges Hot L Baltimore offers best show yet
By IVOR CLARKE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
As with most of Lanford 
\ Wilsons plays, The Hot L Baltij more is a story of failed dreams; 
through a day with the tenants of 
a flop house, the audience is re
minded of how quickly we can be 
left with nothing.
The entire play develops in the 
common room of a once presti
gious, but soon-to-be-demolished 
Baltimore hotel. For three of the 
female tenants, it also serves as a 
workplace with their clientele, 
and for the others, it is simply a 
dead end. Wilson gives us a full 
span of generations, from Lilac 
 a 19-year-old girl (played by 
Lisa Sheridan) who changes her 
name to suit the varied tastes of 
her clients  to Millie (Bonnie A. 
Friedman), an elderly woman 
who speaks with ghosts and 
senses the lives of people she has 
never met.
It is a brilliantly written play 
1 that contains a rhythmic cadence 
1 and a well-sculpted sense of chaos.
Yet it is in bringing Wilsons 
sense of discord to the stage that 
director Anthony McKay stum
bles. In moments where the ac
tion builds to a fevered pitch, the 
audience is presented with a ca
cophony of movement and noise 
rather than with several mixed 
sets of action. One is left with the 
feeling that instead of trying to
separate the moments and the believability to the performance, 
characters on stage, McKay de- 19-year-old Lilac often displays 
cided to simply turn up the vol- more energy than the rest of the 
ume. cast put together, and although
This production also encoun- generic, her interpretation is efters a perennial difficulty with fective and well serves her 
college drama: people in their characters importance. The rest 
twenties playing characters in of the cast complements the pertheir sixties.
Of the three actors placed in 
these roles, only Mr. Morse 
(Jayson Williams) manages to 
inject the flair and style neces
sary for the part; it doesnt even 
enter your mind that he : 
nior in college.
Regrettably, Ms. 
Friedman and Mrs.
Bellotti (Lourdes Bene
dicto) fail to perform as 
convincingly; you are left 
with the unbelievable 
meanderings of young 
women with wigs. In 
addition, we have April 
Green (Jane L. Moore), 
an overaged prostitute 
with a strong sense of 
cynicism.
Yet Moores character
ization is extremely 
forced and her husky 
voice is grating as it be
comes apparent that it
formance and carries the audi
ence smoothly through the three 
acts.
The Hot L Baltimore is by far 
the best thing presented by the 
Drama Department this year
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
Lanford Wilsons exuberant, 
award-winning play, The Hot L 
Baltimore, is brought to the stage 
at Carnegie Mellons Kresge The
ater in a production that both 
astounds and captivates. Di
rected by Anthony McKay, this 
production of The Hot L Balti
more is passionate, yet maintains 
composure amid chaos.
The Hot L Baltimore is about a
is more of a shell than true act- least once. There is so much go
ing. Despite these problems, the ing on in the show that a second
play has undeniable life. The 
nave Jackie (Tami Dixon) and 
landlord Mr. Katz (David Metz) 
lend tremendous character and
visit could add to the enjoyment 
of Wilsons writing and a strong 
performance by the cast as a 
whole.
some way to each and every char
acter it encounters. Theres Bill 
(Zach Shaffer), the hotel clerk 
who has a strange sort of friend
ship with the others in the hotel, 
although they can easily get to 
him.
One girl (Lisa Sheridan) is a 
prostitute who cant stop talking 
and is both annoying and amaz
ing. She asks questions of the 
characters that need to be asked,
but not necessarily answered. 
Millie (Bonnie A. Friedman) is anw 
elderly southern woman who is 
relaxed about everything and; 
adds a lot of composure to every 
scene.
April (Jane L. Moore) is fantas
tic as the aging prostitute who 
not only has a response for any 
statement, but will make sure 
everyone hears it as well.
Please see KRESGE, page L10
Photo courtesy of Carnegie Mellon Drams 
Hotel resident Tami Dixon badgers hotel clerk Zach Shaffer for a break on her 
rent while Jayson Williams complains about a broken window.
the soon-to-be-demolished Hotel 
Baltimore on a hot Memorial Day, 
mingling with the hotel residents 
who are about to lose their home. 
There is no specific focus, and by 
that the audience is drawn inFrancine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
DIVERSIONS
Biographical theater leaves critic with mixed feelings
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
With a rolling and expansive 
eloquence, Philip Hayes Deans 
moving one-man piece Paul 
Robeson, captures the spirit of a 
controversial man. Based on the 
: life of singer, attorney, actor, foot
ball player, and activist Paul 
Robeson, this story follows the 
life of a great man from his en
trance into Rutgers University to 
his death three years after his 
bronze bust was placed in 
Carnegie Hall. Splendidly acted 
by Pittsburgh actor Don 
Marshall, the play moves at a
strong, interesting pace, and the 
voice throughout is powerful and 
moving. However, this is not the 
feel-good drama of the year.
I will admit that the writing 
and acting are first-rate. The sets 
are majestic and the piano-player, 
Everett Freeman Jr., though a 
little drowsy at times, was re
served and had a gentle style. 
From his grand piano to the tall 
pillars and regal chairs,from the 
well-crafted sound and carefully 
set lighting, the play was impec
cable. As for entertainment value, 
there was very little. The play 
moved. The actor kept the audi
ence interested. But the story,
the life of a strong-willed man, 
was not the stuff of great plays. 
In a book, the history of Paul 
Robeson would have been fasci
nating. On stage, however, there 
is no overall drive, no new and 
intriguing conflict. On stage, this 
is the story of a black man facing 
oppression, but the oppression is 
not sufficiently shown to warrant 
a two-hour show.
Directed by Mary G. Guaraldi 
and performed at the main stage 
of the City Theatre, nothing was 
spared in this show. A wonderful 
actor made the play a wonder of 
monologue. Marshall, as Robeson, 
affects the late singers style and
accents. He is very funny at 
points, and the emotion shown at 
a sadder point in the narrative 
was incredibly realistic. I will not 
say the City Theatre did a poor 
job, but there was nothing in the 
play to draw me along.
I can suggest this show on the 
merit of its production. It is a 
wonderful show in that light, but 
for an evening of entertainment, 
or even an evening of enlighten
ing discussion, watch a documen
tary. This problem is not due to 
the script, either. The language 
is clear, vibrant, and as men
tioned before, eloquent. The life 
of Paul Robeson was exciting, but
it did not hold the key to all dra
matic works: conflict. Therefore, 
if you want to go away holding 
something with you besides the 
life story of one man, do not see 
this. But if you want to see firstrate production, buy your tickets
Paul Robeson is being per
formed until Sunday, November 
12,Tuesdays through Fridays at 
8pm, Saturdays at 5:30pm, Sun
days at 2 pm. There are student 
discounts available and the the
atre is located on 57 S. 13th St. 
Call 431-4400 for more informa
tion.
Photo courtesy City Theater 
Don Marshall stars in Paul Robeson.
Duality of Jekyll and Hyde makes for amazing production
By ERIC SALZMAN
Tartan Diversions Editor
For the first half hour of Jekyll and 
Hyde, which played October 24-29 at 
Heinz Hall, I fidgeted around my seat 
hoping the play would go faster. I was 
picking out aspects of every other major 
musical thrown together  Les Mis, 
Phantom, Gypsy they were all in there. 
Even the music bored me.
Then Jekyll (Robert Cuccioli) sang 
This is the moment, and suddenly the 
show began to rock my world.
The classic story of Jekyll and Hyde, 
now a musical scored by Leslie Bricusse 
and Frank Widhorn and directed by 
Gregory Boyd, tells the tale of Henry 
Jekyll, a 19th century London doctor 
who believes he has the formula for 
separating the evil and good sides of 
men.
All he wants is for the 
hospitals board of governors 
to grant him the permission 
to use a human subject to 
test his formula.
When the board refuses to 
endorse the experiment, Dr.
Jekyll uses himself as the 
subject, bringing out his evil 
alter-ego, Edward Hyde.
Until the scene where the 
clash between Jekyll and 
Hyde begins, the musical has 
typical numbers, including 
Facade, the recurring num
ber of the show which could 
have come from just about 
any other modem musical;
Take Me As I Am, a nauseatingly contrived duet be
tween Jekyll and his brideto-be that would be better 
left to telethons and Miss 
America pageants; Bring on 
the Men, a whore house jhe company of Jekyll and Hyde put together a fabulous show, 
scene that could have used a
Cuccioli, who played Javert for over a 
year in Broadways Les Mis, didnt miss 
a beat whether he was down in the 
laboratory, at the whore house, writh
ing on the ground in pain from the un
controllable transformations, or roam
ing the streets of London killing the 
hospital trustees who refused to support 
Jekylls experiment.
There are a few musical numbers like 
This is the Moment, that were worth
Photos courtesy deneaum meater 
Hyde strikes terror into the heart of a defenseless prostitute.
makeover from Bob Fosses All That 
Jazz.
Once Jekyll descends to his laboratory 
to conduct an experiment that leads to 
havoc throughout London, the musical 
begins to infiltrate the soul of every 
member of the audience.
The struggle between Jekyll and Hyde 
 good and evil  questions every 
persons own nature and its different 
sides.
The entire show depends on the actor 
playing Jekyll and Hyde, in this case 
Cuccioli, to properly display the struggle 
of the two sides.
Cuccioli has to go back and forth be
tween characters in just seconds. Con
sidering the fact thatlfindit hard enough 
just to go from physics to philosophy in 
the same day, his performance was in
credible.
to make the symbolic implication of du
ality in all of the characters, not just 
Jekyll.
The prostitute who Jekyll meets early 
in the show and Hyde frequents through
out is a perfect example of the torment 
that the experiment causes. When the 
good Dr. Jekyll crosses the path of Lucy 
(Linda Eder) there is hope that this 
prostitute will rise out of the slums. 
However, the evil side of the doctor is too 
hearing, but on the whole, the music of strong, and Hyde slits her throat in a fit 
Jekyll and Hyde was nothing extraordi- of anger.
nary.
What made this musical absolutely 
thrilling was the story and the way it 
was portrayed.
The sets were astonishing, particu
larly the use of a mirror in Jekylls labo
ratory. It was subtle enough not to seem 
contrived, but still had enough presence
There is no happy, fluffy ending where 
the whole cast is on stage for a final 
number. Both Jekyll and Hyde findtheir 
ultimate fate as the only possible anti
dote to the original formula.
Kudos to Cuccioli for an absolutely 
amazing performance that made Jekyll 
and Hyde a doubly exciting experience.

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  30 October 1995
Reggae tunes prove real phat
By JAY MIOLLA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Dancehall/gangsta reggae aint never 
been so phat. Rude Bwoy Reggae is a 
compilation of reggae and dancehall 
reggae artists that have not really done 
well in their own right.
Who: Various artists 
What: Rude Bwoy Reggae 
Label: Priority Records
Artists like Capelton, Barrington 
Levy, and Beenie Man have made a 
substantial impact on the Jamaican 
Reggae scene but have never quite 
made it in the U.S.
There are also tracks by Cutty 
Ranks, a moderate success in 
America, who has not come out with 
new material in a while. All the 
tracks on the album are about the 
violence in Jamaica and the influ
ence of Gangsta Reggae. It also tells 
of the high accessibility of guns, and 
the notion that in the inner cities 
almost everyone is carrying one, 
especially in areas like Kingston 
and Trench Town, Bob Marleys 
hometown. The album almost starts 
to sound like an after school special, 
but the reggae is dope enough to 
overcome that aspect.
I would say the album is like a stir-fry 
compilation of reggaes best. The artists
are all different, but that adds to the 
excitement of the disc. Tracks like A 
Who Seh Me Dun (Wake De Man) by 
Cutty Ranks just rock. It has a tight hip 
hop backbeat with mad Cutty Ranks 
flavor. Ninjaman is someone who I have 
not heard or seen in a long time. His 
tracks are of the purest Ninjaman 
rhythm.
He has a very vocally-dominated mu
sic style that contrasts most other cuts 
on the album, but it is awesome. Also 
tracks like Lodge by Bounty Kille repLittle Gun by Mad Cobra, who tears up 
the dancehall reggae scene.
Ill bet you would never believe it, but 
even this excellent album has a few bad 
moments. What really pisses me off are 
cuts like track four, where the lyrics and 
singing are mediocre, the recording qual
ity sucks, and the rhythm section sounds 
like a $20 Radio Shack keyboard. I will 
never be able to get past that in order to 
really critique a song.
Also, there is a whole idea of biting 
peoples riffs. On track five, John Wayne 
rips off at least three Beatles songs. 
He sings lyrics to the melody of that 
Beatles song that goes, I once had a 
girl ... something. It really both
ered me, and I had to share it with 
someone.
As a whole I enjoyed the album a 
lot and would recommend it to any
one who is into or is thinking about 
getting into dancehall reggae. I 
thought that it is a pretty good rep
resentation of the variety of Kingston 
beats.
I would also recommend DJ Red 
Alerts Propmaster Show as another 
good compilation of dancehall reggae 
artists, and if tracks six and 10 got 
you hoppin, check out Move From 
Here and Nobodys Business but My 
 Priority Records Qwn by Ninjaman. Then, if the last 
resent the crazy Kingston flavor that is track really did it for you, check out 
ever-present on this disc. It is unforgiv- Hard to Dry and Easy to Wet, by Mad 
able to ignore cuts like Yu Think A Cobra. Bigup.
Picket Fences wins critics favor
On the Tube
by Dan Rosenberg
Last Christmas in Rome, Wisconsin, a 
cow gave birth to a human. The year 
before that, it was discovered that a 
comatose virgin was pregnant. Three 
years ago, a crazed Santa took the towns 
sheriff hostage.
Of course, unusual things do not only 
occur in Rome during the holiday sea
son. Bodies have been found in freezers 
and dishwashers. One mayor exploded 
(self-combustion due to a high level of 
anxiety), while two other town leaders 
were murdered by family members.
The current mayor is a retired bank 
robber. Needless to say, Rome is not 
your typical American burg, yet Picket 
Fences (CBS, Fridays, 9-10 pm), the se
ries that chronicles the aforementioned 
occurrences, wants Rome to be the pro
totype for the all-American small town.
First of all, Fences is not science fic
tion. In fact, every unusual occurrence 
has a scientific explanation. The cow did 
not conceive the child; the bovine was 
simply used for the gestation of the fe
tus.
The virgins pregnancy did not involve 
divine intervention (although the idea 
was thoroughly debated); her gynecolo
gist impregnated her with a hypodermic 
needle. And, yes, it is possible to selfcombust (very unlikely, but possible). In 
actuality, Fences can best be described 
as a moral drama that puts its charac
ters in intense situations and mandates 
that.they make ethical decisions. Issues 
are raised and debated thoroughly leav
ing viewers to evaluate their own be
liefs. And thats what makes Fences great 
television: It compels its audience to 
think. It presents compelling arguments 
on both sides of an issue and forces the 
viewer to take a stand.
Over the past three seasons, Romans 
have argued about such topics as eutha
nasia, cryogenics, busing, fetal trans
plants, violence in schools, h'omelessness, 
freedom of religion, and the possibility 
of the Second Coming.
The center of this debate is usually the 
courtroom of Henry Bone (played by Ray 
Walston), a grumpy yet brilliant judge 
who orders the denizens of his court
room to Get out! after each verdict is 
announced.
The principal attorneys are the exu
berant Douglas Wambaugh (Fyvush 
Finkel) and John Littleton (Don 
Cheadle). While the latter is the epitome 
of professionalism in and out ofthe court
room, the former has no qualms about 
singing He Touched Me at a child 
molesters funeral or giving an inebri
ated woman a drink before the police 
can question her about the car accident 
she caused.
Although much of the series takes 
place in a courtroom, the police depart
ment plays an equally substantial role 
in most episodes. The Rome Police De
partment (and the city itself) revolves 
around Jimmy Brock (Tom Skerritt), a 
fifty-something sheriff whose dedication 
to his job and town is reminiscent of 
Mayberrys Andy Taylor.
Serving under Brock are deputies 
Kenny Lacos (Costas Mandylor), who is 
not averse to using violence to coerce 
suspects confessions, and Maxine 
Stewart (Dumb and Dumber's Lauren
Holly), who had an affair with her psy
chiatrist and then had him arrested.
Many of the issues that enter the court
room are also discussed at Brocks home. 
His wife Jill (Kathy Baker) is a family 
practitioner who never lets her opinions 
go unheard, and their three children, 
Kimberly, Matthew, and Zack, are al
ways on hand to question their parents 
about the events surrounding them.
Dealing with controversial issues and 
a large ensemble is a challenging task, 
but creator and principal writer David 
E. Kelley (LA Law) has certainly accom
plished that goal. His flawless scripts 
are always filled with the right amounts 
of intense drama and comic relief. The 
Emmy-winning cast is impeccable. 
Walston is a pleasure as he dispenses 
profound lectures from Bones bench. 
Finkel is a delight as the bombastic 
Wambaugh.
Skerritt is equally effective as the sher
iff who would rather handle a hostage 
crisis than his teenage daughter. Baker 
meanwhile, is the best dramatic actress 
on television. She exudes an innate grace 
as she delivers her lines. Just watching 
her act is a viewing pleasure.
Unfortunately, Kelley (who also cre
ated Chicago Hope) elected to leavePicket 
Fences this year and his absence has  
not benefited the show. In fact, since 
Kelleys departure, the only issue the 
series has raised has been over Deputy 
Stewarts decision to change her hair 
color.
Nevertheless, the cast is still intact ' 
(which is more than Chicago Hope can 
boast) and the program is certainly worth 
seeing. This season, Fences only deserves 
a B, but overall, the series definitely 
merits a high A.
Dan Rosenberg is channel surfing right 
through his freshman year. Yahoo!
Indie band rocks 
with humor, fun
By NEIL DONNELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
notes and tones only arrive when 
absolutely necessary, allowing the 
empty space plenty of room for exploLike a shot of codeine straight into ration. What Red Red Meat doesnt 
the heart, Red Red Meat has a way of play is usually just as crucial as what 
weaving its narcoleptic style deep into it does.
A slow, country twang sets the mood 
for Oxtail, a song whose gorgeous 
tunefulness shines through dense 
layers of distortion. Sad Cadillac is 
dripping with sorrow, in large part 
due to the arpeggiated piano that 
continuously wanders through it. A 
throbbing bass drum, along with an 
occasional tambourine, serves as the 
only percussion, enhancing the al
ready mournful tone. The tempo of
your being while making you love ev
ery minute of it.
Who: Red Red Meat 
What: Bunny Gets Paid 
Label: Sub Pop Records
The Chicago natives third fulllength release (and second on Sub Pop)
Bunny Gets Paid, meanders sleepily 
through the territory of blues-rock 
greats past and 
present while leaving 
behind its beautifully 
muddy footprints ev
ery step of the way.
The albums opener,
Carpet of Horses, 
fades in with a sparse 
arrangement high
lighting Tim Hurleys 
acoustic slide guitar 
drone, whichisquickly Photo courtesy Sub Pop Records
accompanied by Tim Theyre ready, theyre meaty, theyre Red Red Meat.
Rutilis rough-hewn, muffled vocals 
(coughing can even be detected in the 
background.) Chain Chain Chain 
sounds a bit like an early Rolling Stones 
record played at half of the intended 
speed. Still, it is nothing less than 
stunning. The fuzzed-out noise of 
Rosewood, Wax, Voltz + Guitar is 
appropriately described by the title, 
and shades of the Grifters lazy blues 
sound can easily be detected. A lone 
acoustic guitar and a slight string sec
tion carry Rutilis mumble on But
tered where open space dominates, 
as it also does in Gauze, which crawls 
along predominantly at the behest of 
bassist Matt Fields and drummer 
Brian Decks snail-paced rhythm sec
tion.
Idiot Son is clamorous, but it is 
also one of the records most melodic 
tracks, incorporating both slide guitar 
and white noise effortlessly. The molasses-like crawl of Variations on 
Nadias Theme is well-served by the 
ambient guitar work that pervades it;
Taxidermy Blues In Reverse fluc
tuates at several points but never 
reaches hyperactivity, which suits 
this band just fine. The album closes 
with a version of Theres Always 
Tomorrow that sounds more like a 
depressive, alcoholic sing-along than 
the original from Rudolph the RedNosed Reindeer, but it sounds en
tirely natural nonetheless.
Bunny Gets Paid proves that Red 
Red Meat knows how to meld blues, 
noise rock, and more than a little 
drowsiness, and still create an ex
quisitely melancholy experience. Va
cant space provides much of the at
mosphere on this album, as does the 
leisurely pace that shoves each track 
toward its end. Rather than affront 
the listener with an aural assault, 
this band knows when to lay back 
and let silence steal the spotlight. On 
each song, Red Red Meat doesnt seem 
to know quite where theyll end up, 
but they definitely have one hell of a 
great time getting there.
Kresge show scores big
KRESGE, from page L9
The performances were exuberant and 
filled with energy. I felt drawn into the 
show, and I didnt even realize that 50 
minutes had passed before the first in
termission. The set is incredible. It is as
ing to see CMU perform this wonderful 
play.
Filled with conflict, drama, tension, 
and a bit of humor, The Hot L Baltimore 
is one show at the Kresge theater that
The set is incredible. It is as though a chunk 
of a hotel lobby has been torn out and placed 
in the Kresge theater.
though a chunk of a hotel lobby has been 
torn out and placed in the Kresge the
ater.
The attention to detail is exquisite 
and should be appreciated. Having been 
involved in my high schools production 
of The Hot L Baltimore, it was fascinatshould not be missed. It is running from 
October 27-November 4.
Call the CFA Box Office at 268-2401 
for information. Go see it. You wont 
regret it. Come on, get going... this means 
now ... well ... were not kidding hen 
people.
Copycat devastatingly disappoints with predictability
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Screenwriting guru Lew 
Hunter maintains that the term 
homage is merely a polite eu
phemism for rip-off.
What: Copycat 
Director: John Amiel 
Company: Warner Bros.
So, in the spirit of diplomacy, I 
will describe Copycat as an hom
age to Jonathan Demmes The 
Silence ofthe Lambs. Oscar win
ner Holly Hunter (The Piano) 
plays our heroine  M.J. 
Mopahan, a San Francisco cop 
who is hunting a serial murderer. 
To find him, she must seek the 
assistance of serial killer expert 
Helen Hudson (Sigourney 
Weaver, fresh from a wonderful, 
yet sadly overlooked performance 
in last years Death and the 
Maiden).
Hudson, however, cannot leave 
her house, where she has con
fined herself for over a year. The 
victim of a bizarre attack by her 
insane nemesis, played by Harry 
Connick Jr. - who milks the role 
for every ounce of weirdness its 
worth  she is left severely ago
raphobic. She lives alone in a 
bazillion dollar bay-side apart
ment, with huge rooms, towering 
ceilings, sharply diagonal archi
tecture, and lights that are al
ways off  not exactly the best 
place for someone who is too 
scared to even step outside to 
grab the newspaper.
Lonely for romance, yet terri
fied of the outside world, Hudson 
spends her days downing liquor 
like Humphrey Bogart on New 
Years Eve and sitting in front of 
her fantastically expensive com
puter setup. (She apparently sub
scribes to some chat network for 
manic agoraphobics; no wonder 
she isnt healing.)
Playing Monahans sidekick is 
Dermot Mulroney {Bad Girls, 
How to Make an American Quilt), 
whose on-screen charisma is com
pletely wasted on a stock, niceguy, junior-detective role that 
weve seen a 100 times before.
The killer murders in what is 
at first an inconceivable pattern. 
That is, until Hudson realizes 
that he is imitating the murders 
committed by the worlds infa
mous serial killers, like Ted 
Bundy and Jeffrey Dahmer, hence 
the title. (Some brilliance; any 
decent journalist couldve figured 
this out.)
He makes it clear to Hudson 
that he is working his way to
ward her, the ultimate goal of his 
string of grotesque murders. The 
guy has to be a genius to pull 
these murders off while duplicat
ing the killings of his role models 
and leaving no clues.
But at the end, as the film spi
rals into a pit of clich and utter 
predictability, he turns out to be 
too stupid for us to believe that he 
couldve done all that.
What Copycat lacks that Si
lence ofthe Lambs used so well is 
the psychological battle, in addi
tion to the physical one.
We know almost nothing about 
why the killer is the way he is, or 
why Hudson has made under
standing serial killers her lifeswork.
These two issues could have 
confronted each other at the end 
and made a very effective state
ment about the characters and 
their world. Instead, we are forced 
to sit through an overly long, com
pletely typical, climactic blood
iest.
Certainly, there are some genu
ine moments of suspense in Copy
cat, but I can count them on one 
hand.
The acting is quite good, con
sidering the screenplay they had 
to work with.
Director John Amiel gives us 
nothing new: no moral ambigu
ity, no real surprises, not even a 
whole lot of interesting camera 
angles.
Copycat is aptly named; like its 
villain, it gives us only what weve 
seen before.
 Monarchy Enterprises
Still fuming over her World History grade, Holly Hunter takes revenge

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  30 October 1995111
DH 2210
mulinili.
movies you may have seen before..
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, November 2
Dead Ringers
Starring Jim-Jim Irons as two gynecologists, 
this movie is a thrill-a-minute ride through the 
nubile mind of David Cronenberg. Irons plays 
not just one F.B.I. agent in this movie, but two! 
Count them, folks. And you thought he was only 
good at sounding menacing on the phone and as 
a lion.
See, Irons has a twin and they are good and 
bad, love and hate, Abbot and Hardy: they are exSiamese twins armed with a sharp wit and a cold 
speculum. Eventually, the evil guy dies but that 
doesnt stop him from having fun, fun, fun until 
daddy stows the stirrups away.
Based on a true story, this is wacky. See it with 
your grandmother.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Friday, November 3
Batman Forever
Batman cant die. Hes not allowed. You can 
throw him into rivers, beat him up, tweak his bat 
nipples: there is no chance of killing him. Thats 
why this movie is called Batman Forever.
Starring Val Kilmer, who grew to fame in his 
college drama department as scenery, and Chris 
I wish I was Brad but Ill settle for who I am, 
cause Im still on the cover of Teen, magazine a lot 
and girls like me and my armadillo ODonnell. 
This movie features Tommy Tune and Jim Carrey 
as Eddie. Its all about how Chris dresses up in 
rubber suits with Batman and sails around 
Gotham. Then they kill Tommy Tune and Carey. 
Its pretty neat, really, and its not at all boring. 
The optional plot can be found in the overhead 
compartment, but that doesnt stop this from 
being a nubile ride through the dense mind ofVal 
Kilmer.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Saturday, November 4
Congo
Congo: I saw it. I didnt like it. In fact, I didnt 
like it at all. It was stupid. The special effects 
were done by fifth-graders. Although it was sup
posed to be a take-off on old adventure movies, 
the homage is lost in the nastiness. There are 
white monkeys that will eat your head. There are 
laser guns. There are nice monkeys that can talk 
using virtual reality helmets. But it just doesnt 
change the fact that this is a movie written by a 
monkey, produced by a monkey, and acted by a 
gaggle of monkeys. You dont believe me? Next 
time you see Michael Crichton, look for a zipper. 
Its there. Hes really a monkey.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, November 5
2,000 Maniacs
This movie is a hard-hitting look at the life of 
Natalie Merchant and her 2,000 alternate per
sonalities. A sad but riveting tale of this nubile 
songstress, you will be moved to tears and called 
to action. There is something so, so sad about 
seeing Natalie do that song about candy, and 
youll never look at her the same way again.
See, the thing is, I dont really know what this 
is about. Im sure its nubile, in a B-movie sort of 
way. I think it involves ninjas or kung-fu people, 
but dont hold me to that.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight
Less means much more in Nadja
By W. LABEIKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
No matter what you do, no 
matter what you say, do not call 
Nadja postmodern. You shouldnt 
get off that easily.
What: Nadja
Director: Michael Almereyda 
Company: October Films
Nadja, first of all, is an odd 
brainchild (accent on child) of 
Michael Almereyda, one of those 
directors that nobody will ever 
know about because he doesnt 
take himself too seriously (a pre
requisite to be noticed these days, 
it seems.)
Taking a premise from an old 
Hammer film and taking it to its 
obvious present-day conse
quences, he has made of Nadja a 
film that would make Andy 
Warhol jolly and proud. While 
most movies these days try really 
hard to make a statement or 
have some sort of political point, 
Almereyda has succeeded pre
cisely by taking the opposite path. 
While joking around with his 
movie, he can get some beautiful 
moments across without wear
ing us out with a justification or 
an empty moral.
Elina Lowensohn plays the title 
character, a chain-smoking vam
pire who haunts New York City. 
One night, she finds out her fa
ther (Count Dracula himself) has 
been killed by Dr. Van Helsing 
(Peter Fonda) by the old stake-inthe-heart method. While she sees 
this as a chance to finally change 
her life, she must also try and 
escape from Van Helsing, who 
plans to kill her and her twin
with Nadja, perhaps because 
theyre expecting a normal vam
pire movie. Actually, Almereyda 
plays it fairly straight at the be
ginning, although the dialogue 
and the acting seem to be out of a 
Hal Hartley script directed by 
Roger Corman at times. After a
Photo courtesy October Films 
Martin Donavan and Galaxy Craze star in Michael Almereydas film.
brother with the help of his 
nephew (or is it his son?) Jim. Oh, 
theres also the trouble with Jims 
wife who has been seduced by 
Nadja, and Jims sister, whos in 
love with Nadjas brother. You 
follow?
A lot of people have trouble
while, things just start getting 
. somewhat sillier up until the al
most unwatchable interlude 
where the film just starts to spew 
quotes from Murnau, Cocteau, 
and Im sure some others. After 
that, you may think it is just an 
odd comedy, until that beautiful
ending comes, and then youre 
not sure what in the world just 
hit you. Of course, you might just 
want to do like everybody else 
and spit at the movie.
Now, if anything, Almereyda 
should get praised for being brave 
enough to do this movie. With all 
the labeling and meaningless cat
egorizing that plagues movies 
these days, one must have some 
guts to do a movie that is neither 
a horror movie nor a comedy. 
It is not even an oddball comedy 
or an off-the-wall modern gothic 
drama. And it sure isnt a bi
zarre offbeat romance, either. 
You see, all these words dont 
mean a darn thing, and it is won
derful that filmmakers act ac
cordingly.
Luckily, Almereyda has David 
Lynch as a producer, and if theres 
anyone appreciates . about this, 
its he. So, in the end, what we 
have herebesides a cute, funny, 
and disarmingly beautiful movie 
about vampires and other stuff
 is a bold attempt at truly 
original filmmaking (for better or 
for worse). But dont forget that 
it is your call, for a change.
Nadja is playing down at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, but you 
probably shouldnt go if youre 
one of those people who actually 
follows those insulting if-youlike-this-movie-youll-like-thesetoo! Blockbuster ads.New vampire comedy has biting laughs
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Vampire in Brooklyn posed an 
enigma from the beginning. We 
hadnt a clue how to get to the 
thater when we set out.
 What: Vampire in Brooklyn
Director: Wes Craven 
Company: Paramount
After about twenty minutes of 
driving in what we guessed to be 
the right direction, destiny led us 
to a gas station merely five lights 
away. A short while later, we 
reached our sanctuary. Destiny 
had provided.
Strangely enough, destiny 
plays a role in the film, Vampire 
in Brooklyn, staring Eddie 
Murphy and Angela Bassett. 
Eddie Murphy plays Maximillian, 
a member of the race of vampires, 
the Nosferatu. He sails into 
Brooklyn (literally) aboard a huge 
ship in search of policewoman 
Rita Veder (Angela Bassett), who 
is the daughter of a human and a 
vampire. Maximillian (Max to 
his friends) desperately wants to 
seduce her and continue the line 
of vampires. Having vampire 
blood in her veins, it is Ritas 
destiny to become a full fledged 
Nosferatu and drink the blood of 
the innocent and all that. Vam
pire in Brooklyn was directed by 
scaremiester Wes Craven, the guy 
who did A Nightmare on Elm 
Street and other scary flicks. This 
movie also stars Allen Payne of 
Jasons Lyric as Justice, Ritas 
partner; Kadeem Hardison, best 
(known for his role on the TV 
show A Different World) as Julius, 
and John Witherspoon, who ap
peared in Meteor Man, as Julius 
uncle, Silas.
The high points of this movie 
were Hardison and Witherspoon. 
They stole the show from Eddie 
throughout the movie. They were 
by far funnier and more enter
taining than Murphy, especially 
when the two were in the same 
scene.
Murphy, meanwhile, was 
rather lacking in the humor de
partment, except when he donned 
the identity of other characters. 
That appears to be his comedic 
strength, because his characters 
Guido and Preacher Pauly had 
the audience rolling. He did have 
a powerful intensity about him 
as the vampire, but the romance 
and the dumb one-liners he deliv
ered soured it. There were also 
some fairly well-done special ef
fects and suspense throughout 
the film.
Unfortunately, the movie was 
not all good. Huge blocks of cheese 
somehow infiltrated what could
 Paramount Pictures 
Eddie Murphy and Angela Bassett star in this new vamp flick. 
have been a really good film. 
There was an attempt to have a 
subplot with Rita and Justice 
being romantically inclined to
ward each other, but that just 
tended to annoy the hell out of 
me. Every time they kissed or 
tried to convey feeling toward 
each other, violin players would 
begin soft, romantic music in the 
background.
There were points where it was 
obvious Wes Craven was overdo
ing some scenes in there as well. 
The time blood mysteriously ran 
out of keyholes while someone 
was being killed in the other room 
(nowhere near the door) is just 
one example. Murphy unfortu
nately had a few dumb puns remi
niscent of the middle Nightmare 
on Elm Street movies.
There are reasons to see this 
movie, though Eddie Murphy is 
not one of them. Kadeem 
Hardison and John Witherspoon 
should definitely be seen together. 
Unfortunately, Angela Bassett 
wasnt much of an important fac
tor in this film, either. It wasnt 
her fault, though, as her charac
ter was kind of dull, and she did 
all she could with it. There is 
even stuff in there for you sickos, 
like eyes popping out of peoples 
heads and being stepped on. But, 
if you are not destined to see this 
movie (as in not having money to 
burn), wait for it to come out on 
video.Powder brings tears with touching story
By APRIL C. MOATE
Tartan Staffwriter
A look at the dark heart of hu
mankind, Powder is the story of a 
young man (Sean Patrick 
Flanery) with startlingly white 
skin who is discovered in the base
ment of his farmhouse after his 
grandparents have died.
What: Powder 
Director: Victor Salva 
Company: Hollywood & Cara
van Pictures
He is brought to live in the 
community by the director of a 
school for troubled youths (Mary 
Steenburgen) and is befriended 
by a science teacher (Jeff
accepted into the community and 
realizes that he will never fit in.
When I first saw an ad for Pow
der, I wasnt quite sure I wanted 
to see it, simply because I knew
Goldblum), who believes that that at some point I would have
Powder possesses an advanced 
intellect that is unlike any other 
humans.
They soon discover that Pow
der attracts electric currents and 
also has some extraordinary pow
ers, such as telepathy and teleki
nesis. Mainly because of his ap
pearance, Powder is not readily
Powder stars Sean Patrick Flanery, Jeff Goldblum, and Mary Steenburgen.
to burst into tears. I turned out to 
be right.
This is a very touching movie 
as a result of Flneras moving 
performance. He clearly shows 
the struggle that Powder is going 
through: his desire to return to 
his farmhouse and the loneliness 
he feels that makes him desire 
the friendships of oth
ers.
Jeff Goldblum, one of 
the most underrated ac
tors in Hollywood, also 
gives a good perfor
mance, though I would 
have liked to see him in 
the movie more.
One aspect of this film 
that disappointed me 
was the portrayal of the 
other characters. The 
townspeople and the 
other boys at the school 
are much too stereotypi
cal; they judge Powder 
 Hollywood PicturesCompany solely on the basis of his
strange appearance,
and come off as very flat charac-. 
ter s.
He is either rejected or warm
heartedly accepted by most of the 
people in the movie. There are 
some exceptions to this, but for 
the most part, I felt that the di
rector took the easy way out by 
making the people around Pow
der very simple-minded.
The effects were very realistic, 
although at certain points I found 
myself wondering about the 
makeup used on Flanery more 
than anything else.
Most of the time it looked real, 
but other times I had a hard time 
finding believability in that as
pect of the character because it 
wasnt real enough. This is just a 
minor detail, however, and does 
not detract greatly from the 
movie.I must warn you that I left 
the theater feeling a bit sad for 
Powder. The ending is supposed 
to be uplifting, but it just de
pends on how sensitive (or how 
sappy) you are.
Despite the fact that I could not 
contain my tears, Powder is an 
intriguing and unusual movie 
that might make you look at your
self and the rest of humankind in 
a different light.

---------------------------------------------------

Dead Ringers will play in DH 2210 Thurs
day at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Batman Forever will take place in DH 2210 
Friday at 5, 7:30,10 pm and midnight.
Congo will show in DH 2210 Saturday at 6, 8, 
10 pm, and midnight.
2,000 Maniacs will show in DH 2210 Sunday 
at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
The Andy Warhol Museum presents the 
exhibition Celebrity Photographs from 
October until March. For more information 
call 622-3316.
Painting, sculpture, and film and video 
installations by 36 artists from 16 countries 
will be on view at the Carnegie Museum of Art, 
November through February . For more infor
mation call 622-6509.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts pre
sents Norways Odd Nordrum, acclaimed as 
one of todays finest exponents of contemporary 
realism. The exhibition will run from October 
13 to December 31. For more information call 
361-0873.
The Heinz Architectural Center brings 
together Monolithic Architecture,1"nine archi
tectural projects in a provocative exhibition.
The show runs from October 1 to February 11 
at the Carnegie Museum of Art. Contact Lisa 
Kirchner at 622-3316.
Adults and children of all ages are invited 
to make their own works f art based on the 
work of contemporary artist in the 1995 
Carnegie International, on November 26 from 1 
to 4 pm. For more information call 622-6509.
The Andy Warhol Museum hosts Arena 
where would I have got if I had been 
intelligent! from October 11 to February 25. 
The show exhibits work by artist Joseph Beuys, 
featuring 264 photographs encased in 100 
aluminum frames and three panels of hand
made glass encircling a mixed media sculpture 
For more information call 622-6509.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers is proud to an
nounce the relocation and grand opening of its 
new photography gallery. An opening reception 
will be held on November 3 from 5-8 pm with a 
presentation by Kaighin at 7 pm. The show will 
run through Dec. 9. For more information call 
681-5449.
The Mattress Factory presents Artists of 
Central and Eastern Europe, from Octctober 29 
to April 1996. For more information call 231- 
3169.
Drawings, photographs, and other docu
ments related to the 1965 Andy Warhol 
exhibition at the Institute of Contempo
rary Art (ICA) at the University of Pennsylva
nia in Philadelphia will be in view October 11 
to January 6,1996, in the Archives Study 
Center on the third floor at the Andy Warhol 
Museum. This exhibition is free with museum 
admission. For more information call 622- 
3316.
The Forbes Gallery presents its fifth show of 
the year, The Art of Architects. Te Forbes 
gallery is a student run organization that 
displays work from the CMU community. The 
show will run from October 31- November 4. 
For more information, call 268-2081.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts invites 
regional artists to submit slide documentation 
of their artwork for consideration for the 1996 
Biennial. Selection of the artists will be made
Batman Forever will show in DDH 2210 this Friday.
through slide presentation, studio visits and 
slide/video/audio presentation for kinetic and 
installation work. Deadline for submissions is 
November 20. Send a resume and a maximum 
of 16 slides or no more than 10 minutes of 
videotape to: 1996 Biennial, Pittsburgh Center 
for the Arts, Pittsburgh, Penn. 15232.
College and university faculty with inter
ests in health-physics related fields may
apply for the U.S. Department of Energys 1996 
Health-Physics Faculty Research Award 
(HPFRA) Program. The application deadline is 
February 28. For an application contact Leslie 
Gosslie, Health Physics Faculty Research 
Award Program, Science/Engineering Educa
tion Division, Oak Ridge Institute for Science 
And Education, 1009 Commerce Park Suite 
300, Oak Ridge, Tenn. 37831-0117 or call 1 
(800) 569-7749.
The Central Blood Bank will be holding a 
Halloween Blood Drive on October 31 from 11 
am to 4:45 pm in the West Wing TV room. For 
more information contact Nancy Fritsch, 
Residence Life at 268-2142.
The Carnegie Mellon Leadership Institute
will begin taking nominations for the Spring 96 
Carnegie Mellon Leadership Institute. The 
Series will be the fourth series in the CMLI and 
is a 10 week program that enhances interac
tions with others, through interactive seminars, 
simulations, and initiatives in large. Students 
who have shown leadership qualites and 
interest in personal development are eligible to 
apply to the program. Send potential candi
dates through campus mail to Kevin Hughes c/o 
Residence Life, Morewood Gardens by Novem
ber 3. For more information call Kevin Hughes 
at 268 -2142 or email at kh42.
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents The Hot 
L Baltimore, October 27-November 4 at the 
Kresge Theatre in the College of Fine Arts. 
The Hot L Baltimore is Lanford Wilsons most 
celebrated play. All evening performances 
begin at 8 pm. The Saturday matinee begins at
2 pm. For more information call 268-5765.
City Theatre on the Southside presents 
Philip Hayes Deans biographical play 
Paul Robeson. The show will open this 
Wednesday at 8 pm and run through Novem
ber 12. For more information call 431-4400
1992 DC ComicsLectures
Join the River City Brass Band for a starspangled celebration of music made in the 
USA and a special Veterans Day Salute from 
November 10-19. From sea to shining sea, 
well paint a musical portrait of America as 
vibrant, colorful and interesting as is this gn 
land. The first concert plays on November 10 at
8 pm at Carson Middle School in North Hills. 
For more information call 322-6821.
Dicesare Engler proudly welcomes Boy 
George with a special guest to Metropol, 
Nov. ember 18 for a 7 pm all-ages show. Tickets 
are $18. For more information call 747-8181.
The Renaissance Baroque Society will 
present Cappella Pratensis, a nine-voice Dutdi 
ensemble of a cappella singers in an evening of 
Josquin, November 11 at 8 pm in St. Pauls 
Cathedral 125 N. Craig St. Oakland. Tickets 
can be purchased at the CMU Student Center, 
Pitt Student Union, Classical Tracks, or by 
calling 682-7262.
The Mellon Institute auditorium will host 
Red Red Meat who will be supporting The 
Grifters on November 3. The show is free to 
CMU students.
The Carnegie Mellon University Depart
ment of Music presents Benjamin Britten's 
Albert Herring, a frothy English comic opera 
in three acts, on two weekends: Nov. 3-4 and 
10-11. Curtain time is 8 pm. For reservations 
call 268-2383.
The CMU Art Department Fall 1995 Lec
ture Series presents artist Gary Hill on 
November 2 at 5 pm in Doherty Hall 2315. 
Lectures are free and open to the public. For 
more information visit our World Wide Web 
site, http://www-art.cfa.edu/.
The Tai Chi Club will meet from 4:30-6:30 
pm on Tuesdays. For more information contact 
Malcolm Bauer at 268- 7002 or by email at 
malcolm@cs.
Choosing the Right Publisher: A 
Booksellers Perspective on Academic Publishing, a concise one-day seminar offered 
by Penn State will be held from 9 am to 5 pm 
on November 4 at the Penn State Scanticon 
Conference Center Hotel at a fee for $50. For 
more information call 1 (800) 778-8632.
The YWCA of Greater Pittsburgh, will hold 
its annual Womens Survival Series, a
free lunchtime mini-series of discussions of 
topics of interest to women of all ages on 
Tuesdays from 12:10 pm to 12:55 pm 391-5100.
The New Art Examiner will present Gray 
Matters: Changing Intellectual Currents in 
Contemporary Art Culture, this Saturday 
from 2- 4:30 pm in downtown Pittsburgh at 
the Two Mellon Bank Center auditorium. For 
further information call 837-1551.
The Intelligent Workplace, a living labora
tory will be the focus of a lecture by Volker 
Hartkopf, professor of architecture at CMU and 
director of the Center for Building Performance 
and Diagnostics at 7 pm November 7 at th 
Carnegie Lecture Hall. Call 268-2409.
Reading Series
The National Reading is a poetry event 
sponsored by Share Our Strength, a national 
hunger organization. Locally, the Rainbow 
Kitchen will be the site of a special benefit 
reading on Novovember 2 at 8 pm. Donation $ 
For more information call 464-1892.
The Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh will 
host the annual Fall Festival of Childrens 
Books this Friday from. 9 am to 3:15 pm in 
Carnegie Music Hall. Call The Carnegie Li
brary of Pittsburgh at 731- 5145.
Java Jeffs Coffee House at 2301 Murray 
Ave. has poetry readings the second and fourth 
Mondays of every month at 8:30 pm. Call 412- 
JAVA for details. Music nights are every 
Thursday and Friday at 8:30. No cover charge.
Pittsburgh Area Pax Christi, a local affiliate 
of the international Catholic Peace Organiza
tion, sponsors a liturgy on the first Saturday 
evening of each month. Call 782-0801 or 363- 
0914.
The Islamic Center of Pittsburgh holds the 
five daily prayers and study circle every Friday 
after Maghrib prayer. Friday prayers are at 1 
pm. Call 682-5555 for more information.
The Jewish University Center is sponsor
ing Paintball this Sunday at 11 am. Meet s 
the JUC for a trip to Urban Assault. Call 621- 
8875.
Hey Terri and Mary stop messing around with the darkside. 
Come to CMU and explore the force.
Overheard at Boston MarketHey you guy, whose the babe underneath me?
Hey fancyfaceSorry its so late. Happy three years. Parents be 
damned. Were going all the way.
Julie sorry about the letter. Youre 
a good friend. I want it to stay that 
way.
Mmmm! These chips are good. 
What are you laughing at?Vox P
ice 0A mi
opuili
a lb Ssmab
