THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania30 August 993
a. Nico Habermann j Founding dean of SCS dies at 62
Most respected leader in field of computer science suffers stroke
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Acting News Editor
On Sunday, August 8, A. Nico 
Habermann, the founding dean 
of the School of Computer Sci
ence, died of a heart attack in his 
home in Squirrel Hill, according 
to an obituary released by Public 
Relations later that day. Haber
mann was 62 years old.
Habermann had been on leave 
from Carnegie Mellon since 1991, 
working as assistant director for 
computer and information science 
and engineering at the National 
Science Foundation (NSF). 
Habermann was previously head 
of Carnegie Mellons computer 
science department for eight 
years  from 1980 to 1988  
before the School of Computer 
Science was formed.
Raj Reddy, the current dean of 
the School of Computer Science, 
said in a press release, Nico was 
an inspiration to us all.... He 
spearheaded the significant 
growth of computer science at 
Carnegie Mellon during the 
1980s. Nico was best known 
around the world as one of the 
most respected leaders in the field 
of computer science.
Habermann, named the Alan 
J. Perlis Professor of Computer
Science by the university, was 
best known for his research in 
programming languages, operat
ing systems, software engineer
ing, and programming environ
ments, according to his obituary. 
At NSF, Habermann was respon
sible for programs in many areas
ware Engineering Institute, of 
which Habermann had served as 
acting director in 1985. He had a 
sense of what would work, and 
[hed] go with it.
Dreffel also said that Haber
mann was approachable, and 
easy to talk to. He wasnt easy to
He spearheaded the significant 
growth of computer science at 
Carnegie Mellon during the 1980s. 
 Raj Reddy, dean of SCS
of computer science, including 
computer science and computa
tion research, information robot
ics and intelligent systems, ad
vanced scientific computing, net
working and communications re
search, and cross-disciplinary 
activities.
He is widely regarded by his 
peers as a pre-eminent mathema
tician and computer scientist, 
saidNSF director Walter Massey 
in appointing Habermann to his 
NSF post.
Nico was a pragmatist, very 
broad, and very competent, said 
Larry Druffel, directorofthe Soft
convince, but he was honest. Ac
cording to Dreffel, Habermann 
was instrumental in the estab
lishment of the Software Engi
neering Institute.
Habermann came to Carnegie 
Mellon University in 1968 from 
his native land of Amsterdam as 
a visiting research scientist in 
the Computer Science Depart
ment. He later became an associ
ate professor in 1969, a full pro
fessor inl973, andacting depart
ment head in 1979.
He had also been an adjunct 
professor of computer science at 
Jiao Tong University in Shang
hai, Peoples Republic of China, 
since 1986.
Habermann received bachelors 
and masters degrees in math-- 
ematics in 1953 and 1958, re
spectively, from Free University 
in Amsterdam, and a doctors de
gree in applied mathematics in 
1967 from Technological Univer
sity in Eindhoven, The Nether
lands.
Habermann is survived by his 
wife Martha, his son Frits and 
his wife Francyne, three daugh
ters Eveline Killian, and Irene 
andMarianneHabermannand 
two grandchildren.
A reception was held in his 
honor on Thursday evening, Au
gust 12. A memorial service in 
honor of Habermann will be held 
by the School of Computer Sci
ence on Wednesday, September
8, at 3:30 pm in the Skibo Ball
room. The service will be followed 
by a reception in the Faculty Din
ing Room for Habermanns fam
ily, friends, and colleagues.
According to Mark Stehlik, as
sistant dean for undergraduate 
education in the School of Com
puter Science, Nico was a piv
otal figure in our SCS history and 
has been a very significant con
tributor to the environment as 
you know it today.
courtesy of Public Relations and the Robotics Institute
1931 -1993
:CE professors invent low 
ost, high performance switch
FRANK MICHELS
rtan Acting News Editor
3n Monday, August 9, Advanced Micro Devices 
MD), Inc., the nations fifth largest manufacrer of integrated circuits and computer chips, 
d Carnegie Mellon Universitys Electrical and 
mputer Engineering Department (ECE) anunced a $1 million licensing agreement for a 
ecommunications switch that will accelerate 
B distribution of information over high speed, 
fital networks.
The million-dollar agreement is the largest agreeint ever signed by ___________________________
imegie Mellon reirchers, according 
Ronald Bianchini, 
assistant profes in ECE who 
irked on the telemmunications 
ip with Hyong 
m, another ECE 
sistant professor. 
le agreement will
re AMD exclusive manufacturing rights. 
According to a press release, the switch on a 
ip technology can handle various telecommuniions services that will be shared on high speed 
jital networks, with high performance and low
ie switch is based on the use of Asynchronous 
nsfer Mode (ATM), an emerging new standard 
carrying informationinto businesses andhomes. 
ie press release states, Experts in the telecommications field forecast that ATM systems will 
widely used within the next five years to supply
digitized information like voice, video, and com
puter data. ATM will also support multimedia 
services such as high definition television and 
video conference calling.
University President Robert Mehrabian said in 
his announcement, In the future, the world will be 
wired with all kinds of information services due to 
ever-expanding digital communications technol
ogy. We anticipate that Carnegie Mellons switch 
on a chip will be moving that information.
Kim best describes the importance of ECEs chip 
by referring to AT&Ts popular Well bring it to 
you television ad. Youve seen the commercial 
____________________________ with the guy send
ing a fax from the 
beach? he said. Its 
an example of a super information 
highway; thats our
The whole thing will snowball 
... just like Intel snowballed 
the [computer chip] industry. 
 Ronald Bianchini, 
assistant professor of ECE
Kim said that al
though the world 
has enough optical 
____________________________ fiber to transfer al
most an infinite 
amount of information, there needs to be a way for 
that information to be processed. There was to be 
some switching so information can reach its desti
nation, Kim said. According to Kim, the final goal 
is switching all kinds of information, not just voice 
information with a telephone.
According to an AMD spokesperson, the switch 
developed by Carnegie Mellon is significantly dif
ferent from existing switches in that it attains high 
performance at low cost. The original prototype 
has a capacity of 2.4 gigabits per second, which is 
Please see SWITCH, page 3
Inside
Classifieds...........................9
Comics..............................L4
Diversions........................L7
Features ...........................LI
Forum...................................4
ports....................................7
(Calendar.........................L10
Vox Populi......................L10
 Orientation - An in-depth 
review.
See page LI.
 The comics are here, the 
comics are here!
See page L4.
 Find out why Beavis & 
Butthead dont suck.
See page L7.
 Campus police now ride bi
cycles, too.
See page 4.
 CMU is ranked 25th in Sports 
Illustrated?
See page 7.
 Catch up on the gossip sur
rounding the NBA.
See page 11.
On Friday, August 6, the east end 
of the Senior Fence was removed 
and replaced to be consistent 
with the replacement of the west 
end several years ago.
a iw lutili, <a
his campus on the first day of Freshmen 
to right are orientation counselors 
sophomore biology major; Tom Hummel 
majors; and resident assistant Margaret 
ory on page LI.
The Carnegie Mellon Class of 
Orientation with Playfair, an Ice 
Rebecca Henn, a fifth-year 
and Sheela Kosaraju, senior mec 
Puskar, a sophomore English
Freshmen forced to stay at Holiday Inn
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Acting News Editor
According to Tim Foster, assistant director of 
Housing for residence life, it is likely that the 
approximately 40 freshmen who are currently 
staying at the University Holiday Inn will be 
forced to stay there until the end of the fall 
semester.
Historically, [Housing] always have students 
who are staying at the Holiday Inn, said Foster.
However, Foster ------------------------------------------------
said that those 
students usually 
are out of the 
Holiday Inn 
within the first 
week of classes.
Foster said,
This year, we 
haveavery large
incoming class. At the beginning of freshmen 
Orientation, about 80 students were staying at the 
Holiday Inn, and according to Foster, not many 
dorm rooms were open.
Regularly, students dont get to know people in 
the Holiday Inn, Foster said, but there hasnt 
been enough turnover of rooms previously held by 
upperclassmen.
Though shuttle transportation and stricter rules 
are disadvantages for students stayingin the Holi
day Inn, those students have the advantage of a 
remote-control television, linen service, and a pool.
"Some of them are annoyed be
cause its a mile away, but theyve 
become accustommed to it.
 Melissa Ruffo, Holiday Inn RA
Melissa Ruffo, a senior mechanical engineering 
major, is the resident assistant for the Holiday Inn. 
She said that most of the students there are posi
tive about staying there.
Some of them are annoyed because its a mile 
away, but theyve become accustomed to it, Ruffo 
said.
There has been no problems, yet, said Ruffo. 
One^ student was so sad about leaving that she 
stops by often to visit.
According to Foster, the Housing Office had to 
----------------------------------------- make many ar
rangements to ac
commodate the 
freshmen at the 
Holiday Inn. We 
worked directly 
with the Holiday 
Inn to provide a 
shuttle service 
and other needs,
said Foster.
This costs a heck of a lot of money, Foster said, 
Its not cheap; were not just paying for the room, 
but also for 85 cents per phone call and the shuttle. 
Housing for freshmen is based on the date on 
which the required housing deposit was received. 
When you pay your deposit, you are placed in the 
system, said Foster. Lots of students deposit on 
the same date or are taken at the last minute. 
Foster said that those freshmen who deposit 
late, when housing assignments are full, are tem
porarily placed at the Holiday Inn.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  30 August 1993
Clintons new health plan will reduce budget deficit
WASHINGTON, August 23 (DJ)  
While vacationing on Marthas Vine
yard this week, aides say, President 
Bill Clinton is considering several pos
sible scenarios for financing the over
haul of the nations health-care sys
tem. All of them, however, anticipate 
payingforthe plan through caps placed 
on both private-sector and public 
health-care spending  including 
Medicare andMedicaid'ratherthan 
through broad-based new taxes.
Clintons new health plan, never
theless, has a stunning feature: it 
shows that the plan will help to shrink 
the federal budget deficit as early as 
1996 and 1997 when the new health 
system is supposed to kick in. The 
projected reduction in the deficit, al
though still being refined and subject 
to change, runs from a couple of billion 
dollars in the early years to as much as 
$40 billion annually before the end of 
the decade, accordingto senior admin
istration officials. The exact figures 
will depend on how Clinton makes 
certain final trade-offs.
Told of these assumptions, health
care economist Uwe Reinhardt is more 
than a little incredulous. At last, 
says the Princeton University profes
sor, the proverbial free lunch. Oth
ers fear that the Clinton plan, as its 
shapingup, could lead to a rationing of 
medical services. And some analysts 
worry that the cost-saving measures 
at the core of the plan could ripple 
through and harm the economy.
But after months of calculations, 
Clintons advisors are confident that 
their numbers are solid and their theo
ries are well-grounded. Teams of inde
pendent actuaries already have gone 
through much of the data and signed 
off on it. Whats more, the White House 
aims to have its assertions backed up 
by the Congressional Budget Office, 
which is set to begin reviewing the 
details over the next couple of weeks.
The key to financing the Clinton 
proposal will be the caps placed on 
both public and private-sector health
care spending. The hope is eventually 
to be able to limit all health spending 
growth to the level of inflation plus 
increases in the population.
The battle over the Presidents bud
get probably forced him to realize 
that he doesnt have the capacity to 
ask for new taxes to fund the health 
plan, says Brandeis Universitys 
Stuart Altman, who served as a Clinton 
health advisor during the transition. 
But if they really put tight controls on
spending, I think that could work.
Medicare, the federal health pro
gram for the elderly and disabled, will 
be capped under the Clinton plan. So 
will Medicaid, the state-federal pro
gram for the indigent. And so, too, will 
the growth in the average price of the 
federally guaranteed benefits pack
age that is provided by private insur
ers.
The Clinton plan will cover a com
prehensive range of medical services, 
from routine doctors visits and pre
scription drugs to hospitalization and 
post-acute home care. It will also fea
ture better-than-average mental-health and preventive-care coverage. And 
there is a good likelihood that even 
dental care will be covered in later 
years for adults, although children 
may enjoy dental benefits right away.
The flow of funds into the new sys
tem begins with Clintons mandate 
that everyone contribute something. 
Employers will be asked to pay for 80 
percent of the average price of the 
health policies offered to their work
ers by the large regional insurance 
pools the Clinton plan will set up. 
Workers, for their part, will have to 
come up with the other 20 percent, 
assuming they buy an average-priced 
plan. If they buy a cheaper-than-average plan, theyll contribute less. If 
they buy a more expensive plan, their 
contribution will increase.
The estimated $30 billion to $40 
billion gap between what firms and 
individuals pay into the system and 
what the basic benefits package costs, 
meanwhile, is to be made up with 
federal subsidies.
And that, aides say, is where the 
spending caps come in. By cappingthe 
rate of growth in Medicare and Medic
aid, the White House hopes to squeeze 
tens of billions of dollars a year di
rectly from the system.
Billions more should be raised as 
the government reduces payments to 
hospitals and doctors that currently 
treat large numbers of uninsured 
people.
James Todd, executive vice presi
dent of the American Medical Asso
ciation, complains that premium caps 
are just going to increase the 
micromanagement that insurance 
companies put on the providers, un
dermining quality. And Sylvester 
Scliieber of the consulting firm Wyatt 
Co. thinks the caps could lead to fan
tastic dislocations" in the health-care 
industry, hurtingthe overall economy.
Israel, PLO consider mutual recognition
JERUSALEM, August 29 (AP)  Se
nior Israeli Cabinet members and Pal
estinian officials indicate that Israel is 
on the verge of recognizing the Palestin
ian Liberation Organization (PLO).
That would be part of an agreement in 
principle to implement Palestinian au
tonomy in the occupied territories, start
ing with the Gaza Strip and the West 
Bank town of Jericho.
A member of the PLO committee that 
is overseeing negotiations says all par
ties are cooking an agreement which 
he says will include direct negotiations 
between Israel and the PLO.
The Israeli Cabinet is expected to vote 
tomorrow on allowing the Israeli team 
at the Middle East peace talks to go 
ahead with the plan. Those talks re
sume this week. Foreign Minister 
Shimon Peres is expected to fly to Wash
ington this week to sign the deal.
Speaking to reporters in Marthas 
Vineyard, President Bill Clinton said 
hes hopeful, but theres been a lot of 
these things before, adding, We still 
have a long way to go.
30th anniversary of Kings speech spawns march
WASHINGTON, August 29 (AP)  
Marchers commemorating the 1963 
march on Washington gathered at the 
LincolnMemorialinWashington, mark
ing the 30th anniversary of the civil 
rights march where Martin Luther King, 
Jr. delivered his famous I Have a 
Dream speech.
Members of Kings family led off the 
march about noon on Saturday, August 
28. As the crowd began moving across 
the grassy mall, Attorney General Janet 
Reno linked arms with the Reverend 
Jesse Jackson. ,
There was no keynote speaker; over 50 
people were invited to address the crowd.
Coretta Scott King, Kings widow, said 
that the nation has made progress in 
achieving her late husbands dream, but 
she said theres much more work to be 
done.
Looking out on the crowd from the 
memorial to Abraham Lincoln, who freed 
the slaves, King said leadership must 
come from the nations young people.
She said theres too much racism, big
otry, poverty, and violence in America 
and the world.
New York City Mayor David Dinkins 
said the marchers want to remind Presi
dent Bill Clinton of his pledge to provide
jobs and justice for all Americans.
Thousands of people from all walks of 
life left the nations capital carrying re
minders of Martin Luther King, Jr.s 
dream and a rallying cry for jobs and 
justice.
The National Park Service estimated
75,000 people turned out for yesterdays 
march, despite Washingtons swelter
ing heat.
However, a march chairman claims 
the crowd equaled the 200,000 who were 
at the Lincoln Memorial in 1963 to hear 
Kings I Have a Dream speech.
Reno, Jackson, civil rights pioneer 
Rosa Parks, and NAACP President Ben
jamin Chavis called for fair treatment 
and cooperation among minority groups.
Kings 1963 speech helped galvanize 
national support for the civil rights cause.
Clinton fails to define, exercise foreign policy
WASHINGTON, August 27 (DJ)  
Quagmire was how President Bill 
Clintons top political and military advi
sors described Bosnia last spring. After 
a humiliating rebuff from Americas al
lies, Clinton had come to agree, The Wall 
Street Journal reported.
But in early July, sitting in a Tokyo 
hotel listening to reports from Serb-besieged Sarajevo, aides say the President 
began thinking anew about U.S. involve
ment. The city had gone for weeks with
out water and electricity. Typhoid, fam
ine, and the fall of the capital loomed. 
The human suffering was too awful to 
ignore. Clintons reputation as a world 
leader could be damaged indelibly if he 
did nothing.
Now, more than a month later, it still 
isntclear whether the U.S. andits allies 
will make good on their latest threats to 
use air strikes. The Serbs have been 
worried enough to ease their siege some
what. But a carving up of Bosnia seems 
inevitable, and neither the U.S. nor its 
allies are even contemplating military 
actions to prevent it. Even so, there is a 
tough test of U.S. resolve to come: If a 
partition arrangement is agreed upon, 
Clinton will have to decide whether or 
not to fulfill his pledge to send ground 
forces to support a peacekeeping mis
sion.
Clinton hasnt announced a clear set 
of foreign-policy priorities. Major policy 
changes have been left to media leaks or 
elliptical responses at press conferences. 
As a result, the public debate on Bosnia
 or Somalia  has gone on almost 
totally without his participation. Indeed, 
with no advance explanation, the ad
ministration this week sent 400 Army 
Rangers to Somalia, where four U.S. 
soldiers were killed earlier this month
in an ambush.
Clintons advisors say the President 
doingexactlywhatthe U.S. public want 
devoting most of his energies and h 
political capital to promoting his domei 
tic agenda.Eastern coast keeps eye on Hurricane Emily
CHARLESTON, August 29 (AP) - 
South Carolinians, remembering Hu: 
ricane Hugo, arent taking any chance 
as they wait to see where Humean 
Emily goes.
Residents are stocking up on bottle 
water, batteries, and other supplies.
Bob Sheets, director of the Nation; 
Hurricane Center, says it seems Hurr 
cane Emily has taken what he call 
that more westerly track. Sheets saj 
it looks like Florida and Georgia ai 
clear from the hurricanes path.
Sheets expects the storm to move wes I 
to northwest over the next day or two
After first heading toward souther _ 
Florida, Hurricane Emily veered o] 
With landfall expected sometime Tues| 
day, meteorologists say the storms zi| 
zag pattern has prevented any precii 
forecast of where it will hit.China dam break! kills hundreds, \ causes damage (
BEIJING, August 29 (AP)  Chines' i 
officials say there are biglosses follow, ic 
ing the rupture of a dam in a remote are: y 
of northwestern China. Onegovemmen s 
official said the subsequent flood killei h 
as many as 200 people.
Chinas official news agency said 
investigation is under way to determini 
why the dam burst Friday. A delegatioift 
of Chinese Cabinet members have ar-p 
rived to review the stricken area. jiiPost-Gazette raises price of d, Sunday paper
PITTSBURGH, August 28 (AP) - o 
Eight months after publishing its firs o 
Sunday edition, the Pittsburgh Post , 
Gazette raised the newsstand price tl$1.25, citing rising operational costs all 
the reason.
The Posi-Gazeite purchased the forme: 
Pittsburgh Press last year during a de 
livery drivers strike that silenced botljj 
papers for eight months.
News Briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc., and WRCT 
Layout by 
Frank Michels
Celebrate Tradition
^W,th a aJfour
Glass Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime when they're 
preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. Sports, academics, 
degrees, years of graduation, and custom school designs 
can all be captured in your Balfour Class Ring... a 
tradition of excellence since 1931 !
Tuesday, August 31,10-4 pm ... Baker Hall 
Wednesday, September 1,10-4 pm ... The Carnegie Shoppe
A $35 deposit is required with each order.
Balfour* No one remembers in so manyT ways.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  30 August 1993
'Switch on a chip earns national interest
SWITCH, from page 1
equivalent to 40,000 voice channels.
Bianchini said in an interview that 
the idea of the switch on a chip was 
developed over dinner between Kim 
and him. We developed this in one 
night, Bianchini said, and submit
ted a disclosure. Then we started run
ning simulations and producing pro
totypes.
Bianchini said that the project 
started well over ayear ago; the disclo
sure was dated March 1991.
Kim had spent time on the area of 
communications for nine years. Kim 
said, It was so simple to build it in the 
lab. We had undergraduate seniors 
build part of the first prototype as part 
of a project from September to Decem
ber 1991. Kim also said that the sec
ond prototype was built by two masters 
degree students in ECE.
Bianchini said that AMD got in
volved with the project, because AMD 
partially funds the ECE undergradu
ate curriculum. Were working with 
them through courses, he said. 
Bianchini gave AMD the idea and 
asked them if they were interested.
According to Bianchini, the partner
ship between Kim and himself was 
perfect. Both Bianchini and Kim had
Computing Services changes Andrew working environment
courtesy of ECE department
Professors Ronald Bianchini (left) and Hyong Kim are holding a prototype of their 
16 input x 16 output telecommunications switch on a chip. Both professors are 
faculty members of the Computing Systems Center in the ECE department.
studied the Banyan network, which is 
a higher cost alternative to CMITs 
switch on a chip. Kim studied the 
Banyan network from the telecom
munications standpoint  Bianchini 
said, and I studied it from the computer architecture point of view.... We 
combined both aspects into one design. 
The chip is great, Bianchini said. 
The whole thing will snowball, just 
like Intel snowballed the 386 [com
puter chip] industry.
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Acting News Editor
During the summer, the Computing 
Services department changed some of 
the features and defaults of the Andrew 
User Interface System (AUIS), the sys
tem by which students get access to 
their accounts and electronic mail.
According to Bob Kuszewski, a con
sultant for Computing Services, the 
changes will affect all users who have 
not customized their Andrew account, 
in addition to new accounts that were 
created for new students and faculty for 
the fall semester.
The most important change affecting 
new Andrew accounts is the elimation of 
a default printer. Previously, if a user 
printed a file and did not specify a printer, 
the file would be queued to the printer 
chestnut, located in the A-level of the 
University Computing Center.
Now, if a user does not specify a printer, 
the user will receive an error message, 
and the users file will not be printed. 
This change will only affect new users of 
the Andrew interface.
Another change in Andrew affects the 
keyboard. On DECstations, the past 
default behavior for changing windows
was click to change, according to 
Kuszewski in his post to official.andrew.- 
This means the user had to click in s 
particular window to begin typing in itr; 
Under the new default, focus follows; 
pointer, which means simply movingJ 
the mouse cursor, or pointer, to a win-1 
dow in order to type in it. This also' 
means that you have to leave your pointer! 
in a window in order to continue typing 
in that window.
In addition, when users startup what; 
is called the X windows environment on j 
DECstations, the typescript windowhas \ 
been replaced by thexterm window. The1, 
xterm window performs the same func-! 
tions as the typescript window, except! 
that there are no longer any pop-up' 
menus.
For example, clicking the middle; 
mouse button will no longer bring upj 
menu cards. Since the menu cards arej 
gone, users will have to use the mouse! 
buttons in order to cut and paste text. !
New users are also no longer required! 
to subscribe to the official bulletin board. 
The only bulletin board that will be 
required is official.andrew.
Finally, when files are removed or! 
copied from a user account, a warning! 
message will no longer appear.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
"wo renowned New telephone>hysics professors exchange used forlie over summer residential rooms
Tennis court completion is just first step
Richard E. Cutkovsky, Buhl Professor of Phys
ics, died on June 17 following a stroke. He was 64 
rears old. On July 2, Clarence M. Zener, a univer
sity professor in the Physics Department, died of 
heart failure at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 87. 
] Cutkovsky obtained all his degrees at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. He joined the faculty in 
L955 and was appointed Buhl Professor in 1963. 
He authored more than 100 papers on elementary 
jarticle theory and was an invited speaker at 
ntemational conferences throughout the world.
Zener earned his undergraduate degree in mathimatics from Stanford University in 1926 and his 
ioctorate in physics from Harvard University in 
L929. Zener joined the Carnegie Mellon faculty in 
L968, and his works include developing the ideas 
;hat lead to the Zener diode, introducing the field 
of internal friction, and pioneering the concept of 
Dcean thermal energy conversion.1993-94 edition of Research Directory is now available
Published annually by the Undergraduate Re
search Initiative, the Research Directory provides 
nformation on the research and creative activities 
Df Carnegie Mellons undergraduate academic deDartments, graduate schools, research institutes, 
and research centers.
Each section includes a summary of research 
opportunities, descriptions of undergraduate 
courses which promote research, and a complete 
list of faculty members and their fields of expertise.
Hard copies of the Directory 
are available in the libraries, ev5ry department, the Career Cen
ter, and the Skibo Info Desk.
Growth in the university telephone system has 
caused the addition of a new telephone exchange 
862 to be used for student residence hall room 
telephones.
All CMU on-campus telephone calls now require 
dailing 5 digits: 2 + 4-digit extension for resi
dence hall telephones, and 8 + 4-digit extension 
for faculty, staff, and administrative office tele
phones.Campus Police patrol on mountain bikes
Three Carnegie Mellon police officers will be 
patrolling the campus with mountain bikes. Direc
tor of Security Jim LaPaglia said the campus is 
perfect for bike patrols, because it doesnt have any 
hills, and walkways make it easy to ride bicycles.
The bicycles will allow the officers to go places 
where a police car cant, and they allow officers to 
move faster than they could on foot.
The bike patrols are designed to prevent bicycle 
and auto theft and other crimes. The three officers 
will average 25 miles during an eight-hour shift.Simon wins award
University professor Herbert Simon received an 
award from the American Psychological Associa
tion for Outstanding Lifetime Contributions to 
Psychology. Simon was a founding father of the 
field of artificial intelligence.
Compiled by 
FRANK MICHELS
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Acting News Editor
It couldnthave been more con
venient for construction of the 
tennis courts to be completed on 
the first day of classes.
At 7 am on Tuesday, August 
24, the tennis courts were turned 
over to the Athletic Department 
for classes.
During the month of August, 
the final steps were taken to make 
sure the tennis courts were com
pleted before classes. The final 
coating on the court surface was 
finished last Monday.
By October 1, an underground 
sprinkler system will be installed, 
and the slope area next to the 
courts will be seeded.
However, the slope area will 
remain closed until the start of 
the spring semester, after trees 
are planted.
David Perry/Tartan Junior Staff 
Although the tennis courts are open, students and faculty are still; 
reminded of the impending construction of the new University Center.; 
By the time the slope opens for some short-distance traying, Skibo will; 
be torn down. A tunnel linking Margaret Morrison and the University 
Center is planned.

Sorry, a News error has occured.
offending command: inadequate staff. 
Restart system or call 8-2111.
(^Restarf)
Alien K.obotics
HelloHumans
6905 Merton Road 
Pittsburgh,'PA 15202
The Future in Mobile 
Robot Systems !
Motavated Engineering or 
Business Entrepreneurs 
Write! or Call 761-8132
Twin $99 set 
Full $129 set 
Queen $149 
King $189
Martini Mattress Bloomfield 
682-3336
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St. 
(off S. Craig in Oakland) 
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
LOOKING FOR COLLEGE MONEY?IMPORTANT
1 INFORMATION ON 
HOW WE CAN HELP YOU FIND COLLEGE FINANCIAL AID!
We've helped THOUSANDS of students find financial aid sources they .were qualified for but did not know about. We can help YOU find YOUR share of the BILLIONS OF DOLLARS in private sector funding 
represented in our specialized databank of over 180,000 listings!
FINANCIAL AID AVAILABLE FOR:
ildren of Veterans  Newspaper Carriers  Former GirV 
re Pharmacists  Non-Smokers  Cheerleaders  Studef 
iian Descent  Future Teachers  Second-Gen^ 
ients  Ohio Natives  Grocery Clerks  Langti 
Ildren of Railroad Employees  Michigan Native^ 
rs  Future Computer Programmers  Former Boy Sc\
Call TOLL-FREE 24 hours for a Brochure:
tT
Student Services
6124 North Milwaukee Avenue  Chicago, IL 60646
I Ext. 814
Cnmgi MdLkwm Labrarks
Regular Hours 
1993/94
Engineering & Science Library 
and Hunt Library
Monday - Thursday 8 a.m. - midnight 
Friday 8 a.m. - 9 p.m.
Saturday 10 a.m. - 9 p.m.
Sunday noon - midnight
Mellon Institute Library
Monday - Friday 
Saturday & Sunday
8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. 
CLOSED
For current library hours, 
call 268-5888 anytime.
Holiday Hours 
Fall 1993
Engineering & Science Library 
and Hunt Library
Labor Day weekend
Friday, September 3 
Saturday, September 4 
Sunday September 5 
Monday September 6
8 a.m. - 6 p.m. 
10 a.m. - 5 p.m. 
noon - 9 p.m. 
CLOSED
Thanksgiving holiday
Wednesday, November 24 8 a.m 
Th-F, November 25-26 
Saturday, November 27
6 p.m. 
CLOSED 
10 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Mellon Institute Library
will maintain regular hours, except that
the library is closed on university holidays.
Extended hours for Finals will begin on Friday, December 3,1993.
62 T
09/95 03-097-00 *1
(<------

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
If you are going to 
drink, drink safely
Another school year is upon 
us. With the school year comes 
the annual influx of new fresh
men. With the new freshmen 
comes Orientation. With Orien
tation, and the first few weeks of 
classes, comes the beginning of 
fraternity rushvery likely one 
of the most concentrated periods 
of heavy drinking on the CMU 
campus. Drinking is, of course, 
by no means linked to or isolated 
to the Quad  students, if they 
so desire, will drink when and 
where they can. However, the 
Quad does serve as the most 
visible example of the underage 
drinking problem at CMU.
Already, numerous incidents 
related to the over-consumption 
of alcohol have occurred. This is 
a continuing problem here at 
CMU, and not just for freshmen. 
The problem here is that many 
members of the Class of 97 are 
more likely to be inexperienced 
where drinking is concerned. 
Add to that the fact that most of 
the class is well under the legal 
drinking age of 21, and we have 
an explosive combination.
Alcohol should be served care
fully, even to those who are le
gally allowed to partake.
When alcohol is being served 
to underage students, about 
whose alcohol privileges the law 
leaves little question, even moreConvocation flops, but 
dont give up hope
Carnegie Mellon started a new 
tradition last Tuesday afternoon. 
In the tent on the Cut, the fac
ulty and administration got to
gether to participate in our first 
annual Convocation ceremony.
Is this news to you? Thats prob
ably because most of the student 
body failed to attend. And this 
time, its not even the fault of 
student apathy.
Convocation ceremonies are 
common occurrences at univer
sities. At many schools, they are 
even big enough and popular 
enough that students will fill 
football stadiums just to partici
pate.
Not so here. Granted, it was 
the first try, and there are al
ways bugs to be ironed out of any 
process. Unfortunately, CMUs 
convocation looks to have more 
than its fair share of bugs.
Planning for the event could 
not have possibly been more slip
shod. When the planning pro
cess for an event begins before a 
previous school year even ends, 
it seems reasonable that the 
planners might begin publiciz
ing the event.
Not so here. The publicity for 
the convocation events consisted 
of an 81/2 by 11 -inch poster that 
proclaimed, in rather large type, 
4:30. Its possible that our fel
low students remember this, and 
wondered, as we did, what was 
happening at 4:30 pm last Tues
day. But, since Tuesday was the 
first day of classes, and the post
ers didnt even go up until Tues
day, even that little bit of public
ity must have been an after
thought.
Obviously, this publicity didnt 
work. Note that the only other 
major form of publicity was a
'Ausr BE 
jTo PflMK
care must be taken. Remember, 
whether youre just having a 
party in your room, or if you are 
serving at your fraternity, that 
you are responsible when you 
serve alcohol to a minor, and 
even more responsible if that 
minor is already visibly intoxi
cated when you do so. For that 
matter, if an intoxicated person 
injures him or herself in an acci
dent on your property, you are 
also liable.
Certainly the fraternities are 
at least aware of the possible 
dangers of the heavy drinking 
that goes on. So are most of the 
members of the upper classes. 
So why is it that year after year 
we see visibly drunk students 
aimlessly wandering the cam
pus and the surrounding areas 
on weekends? The answer is 
that, for all the official protesta
tions of the student body and the 
administration, the claims that 
everything is being done to con
tain the underage drinking prob
lem, no one really cares about it.
The studentbody must be more 
cautious in its altogether too 
casual treatment of the issues 
surrounding alcohol, its legal
ity, its use, and its abuse. We 
need to watch out for ourselves 
and each other, so that we can 
all eventually learn to enj oy our
selves safely.
Enviro-hypocrisy abounds
Matt Ball
verbal message passed on from 
Orientation counselors to their 
groups of first-year students  
one that the University could 
not possibly have expected to be 
effective on groups of students 
who, after a week of Orienta
tion, were likely to have been 
more interested in the onset of 
classes than in another cer
emony. Especially when dress 
for that ceremony was mandated 
as semi-formal, at least to the 
first-year students who were 
informed.
Its also a bad sign for an event 
when, minutes before it is sched
uled to start, at least one admin
istrator roams the halls of Skibo 
trying to drum up interest, as 
happened on Tuesday.
But lets not be totally nega
tive. The fact that there were at 
least 150 interested students 
attending (for CMU, a veritable 
mob scene), along with a large 
portion of the faculty and ad
ministration, is encouraging. 
The administration should not 
give up on the idea of Convoca
tion. It simply must make a 
stronger effort to bring the stu
dent body together with the fac
ulty and staff next year. Stron
ger advertising is only one place 
to start.
Convocation has the potential 
to be a popular event, and it has 
the potential to be beneficial for 
the school. Its a great chance to 
recognize outstanding faculty 
members for their achievements, 
its a good way to emphasize 
that the students and their edu
cations actually matter to the 
administration, and its a won
derful idea for a new tradition, 
especially at a school that has so 
few.
When working on my masters degree, I spent much of 
my time working with people on the cutting edge of the 
environmental movement. One of my more famous col
leagues worked with endangered plants. He often spoke 
movingly of the rarest plant in North America: there is 
only one left, with botanists (plural!) working round the 
clock to save this one plant, which wont produce seeds 
or respond to cuttings.
Save it from what? Save it for what? This deeply felt 
concern is rather ridiculous and misplaced. To become 
emotionally attached to a single plant because it is rare is 
neither a grand moral stance nor an Earth-preserving or 
life-loving ethic. All the time these botanists are devoting 
their energy to this one doomed plant, the rest of the 
natural world is being destroyed by those with a very 
simple, straightforward, and unquestioned motivation  
progress.
As opposed to specialized scientists, when most people 
think of nature and endangered species, they think of 
animals. The generalized environmental movement rec
ognizes that most dont identify with living ones life to 
save a plant, but are able to empathize with a cute or 
unique animal.
By looking for the root of this almost universal concern, 
we can begin to come to terms with the nature of nature, 
and of our position towards nature.
Despite our good intentions and our love of animals, 
statements of concern such as the Endangered Species Act 
are a facade for our own selfishness and greed. We have no
regard for the individual animal behind the glass screen of the 
TV. We have no empathy for the individual animal living her 
entire life in a cage. What interests us is the level of novelty. 
Our money goes to insure that this entertainment will con
tinue into the future, so we can ooh and ahh.
But the species of animals we cage to preserve are made up 
of individual sentient creatures  beings with feelings and 
desires separate from our view of them. An animal feels no 
differently, suffers no less, if it is the last of a species or one of 
billions. Our selfishness to maintain a menagerie for our 
aesthetic pleasure is built on ignored yet actual lives which 
exist separately from our diversity census.
The hypocrisy of our actions is overwhelming. We write a 
check for the preservation of the bison, then consume the 
roasted flesh of domesticated cattle. We marvel at the beauty, 
grace, or humor ofthe hundreds of animals imprisoned in afew 
blocks of a zoo in the middle of the city, but fail to consider the 
sordid reality of the situation that many animals died to 
bring just one to live an incarcerated and unnatural life for our 
caged convenience, while those left behind are killed by our 
expansion.
The simple fact is that every animal  from the tiger in the 
wild to the baboon pacing in the cage to the rabbit shackled in 
the lab to the pig screaming as he is beaten to the 
slaughterhouses killing floor  is endangered. Scientific 
labels such as species cannot change this. The ability to sense 
and suffer is not dependent upon the number of similar others.
It is time to look upon the world and all it holdsfrom scenic 
vistas to overflowing landfills, from tropical rainforests to 
clear cut timber stands, from the last of a certain flower to just 
one of billions of food animals  with respect, a respect 
separate from set, selfish desires of what the world should be 
for us.
Matt Ball is a graduate student in Engineering and Public 
Policy.Police bicycle against crime
r n&nlart MinfnSI.Declan McCullagh
On August 17, Carnegie Mellon rein
stated police bicycle patrols on campus. 
The reasons the university gave were 
excellent: speed, mobility, and vehicle 
theft prevention.
With the recent rise in car thefts and 
violent crimes on campus, the Univer
sity should be commended for adopting 
such a sensible and logical means of 
ensuring the security ofthe campus com
munity. The decision to equip officers 
with bicycles is an intelligent one, that 
makes sense from every perspective.
By now, you should be wondering, 
Since when did the administration start 
making such sensible decisions? After 
all, the last time the University made 
such a good decision was when they gave 
out free floppy disks at football games in 
an effort to boost attendance.
To understand their reasoning, we 
have to consider the history of bicycle 
police. In 1987 Seattle drew the atten
tion of the national media when it be
came the first major city to use bicycle 
police in an attempt to identify more 
lawbreakers.
It worked. Because of their close prox
imity to the criminal element, bicycle 
police were able to pinpoint more sus
pects. For example:
Concerned Citizen: Are you all right?
Police Bicyclist: (wincing in agony) I 
think I might have strained something 
when I was chasing those skateboard
ers.
Concerned Citizen: Are you sure? 
Here, let me help. (throws bike in trunk 
of car and drives off).
Police Ex-Bicyclist: Thief! Help, po
lice! (faints).
So we can see that bicycle police have 
a decided advantage in identifying crimi
nals. It was because of benefits like 
these that CMU started using bicycle 
police in July 1990. The program ended 
after the participating officers left, prob
ably complaining of sore butts and 
squashed private parts.
Then why did the University start 
patrols again? One reason is that riding 
a bike is a lot more fun than driving a
car. After all, being cooped up in a squad 
car isnt exactly the most interesting 
way to spend a day. As excitement goes, 
it ranks right up there with reading a 
research paper called Diophantine Ap
proximation on Abelian Varieties with 
Complex Multiplication.
But tooling around campus on a swank 
new mountain bike is different. Officers 
get to have fun  popping wheelies, 
riding up steps in pursuit of dangerous 
fugitives with unpaid parking tickets, 
chasing suspects with overdue library 
books down the Baker Hall straight
away. This is the stuff of which excite
ment is made.
In addition, as anyone can tell from 
the neon colors if not by the increasing 
theft rates, mountain bikes are cool. No 
trendy police department should be with
out one, and CMU is no exception.
Instead of being sneered at for having 
no tan and for riding around in cars 
about as sporty as a 1947 Studebaker 
Starlight coupe, (which was, after all, 
designed by the same person who cre
ated the Ritz Cracker logo and was about 
as aerodynamic as one), CMU cops will 
Please see BIKE, page 5Tolerance needs to apply everywhere
AJames S. Brown
As we all come to campus this year, it isnt difficult to feel 
the ongoing theme of tolerance for those different from us. 
Our tuition dollars have funded many multi-colored posters 
telling us of the deadly Socially Transmitted Diseases, 
such as homophobia, racism, sexism, and the like.
We are told to be open-minded.
We are told to promote diversity."And above all, we are 
told to be tolerant.
What is tolerance? The casual observer would expect it 
to mean just what it is defined to mean  the acceptance of
other people, regardless of their outlook or appearance. This 
seems a fair concept. People should be allowed to say and do 
what they want, so long as it doesnt hurt others. Obviously 
then, we, as students, should not do harm to groups because of 
their beliefs, nor to individuals on the basis of appearance. We 
should mind our own business.
Living on a campus that promotes such a high degree of 
tolerance, one would think thaijany student could express any 
view he or she wished, and associate in any maimer of his or 
her choosing without fear. One would expect to be able to 
express ideas without enduring verbal abuse, as that sort of 
abuse is by definition intolerant. Unfortunately, this is not 
the case at CMU. Ironically, the rampant intolerance c 
campus is not for views outside the mainstream.
The people who receive the most harassment at CMU are the 
Please see TOLERANCE, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  30 August 19935
Welfare needs radical reform, change
David Hunt
This summer I heard about a 
most ironically amusing sight. 
Downtown there was a homeless 
man sitting on the sidewalk. Now, 
homelessness is surely one of the 
saddest things that can happen 
to a person. Hunger is painful 
physically, but the psychological 
damage done by not having even 
a room to call your own is a trauma 
that I cannot imagine. Many 
homeless are of necessity pan
handlers, begging for money to 
buy food, and filing for welfare.
Back to the story. This home
less man was sitting with a sign 
that said, Homeless, please 
help. Right behind him was an 
Arbys with a Help Wanted. No 
Experience Necessary. Will 
Train. sign. Imaginehere was 
physically capable person who 
would rather beg than work. Sto
ries similar to this aboundofpan
handlers who end their day with 
more money than they would if 
they worked. People with Will 
work for food signs at busy sec
tions can often go home with a
few hundred dollars a day from 
people who want to help but have 
no jobs available.
On the opposite end of the spec
trum are those persons who re
ally do want work. A few years 
ago, there was a single mother 
who wanted to get off welfare, so 
she got a student loan to go to 
secretarial school. Welfare offi
cials then told her that they con
sidered her loan extra income 
and that her welfare benefits 
would be accordingly reduced. 
Here was a woman who wanted 
to get off welfare, but the system 
held her in. Another family had 
their savings, which were in
tended for the children to be able 
to go to a community college, 
taken away. Fortunately, enough 
outrage was elicited among the 
citizenry at large that the seizure 
was stopped. There are many 
similar examples of the welfare 
system keeping people inside.
All of these cases argue for a 
massive overhaul of the welfare 
system. State welfare agencies 
are looking at reviving work
fare, the plan proposed by exPresident Ronald Reagan which 
would require that the recipient 
work at some job, even if trivial
in scope, to earn their money. 
One state has already legislated 
that in order for single male re
cipients to receive benefits they 
must be employed, even if they 
just pick up street litter.
Welfare, as it stands, can cre
ate the worst type of person  
someone who feels that they are 
owed support. I know of one per
son who grew up in a welfare 
family. He could have received a 
college education free, thanks to 
welfare, and gone out and be
come productive. Instead he chose 
to drop out of college and let him
self be carried on the backs of the 
taxpayers. Another problem is 
child support, and the allowance 
for unlimited numbers of chil
dren. The obvious answer, which 
I am in favor of, is temporary 
birth control measures that do 
not require maintanence. In other 
words, temporary sterilization.
At this point, civil liberties ad
vocates (I include myself in this 
category) will raise the spectre of 
racism and eugenics. This is a 
decision that was not easy for me 
to accept, as there are dangerous 
possibilities for abuse. After all, 
it is a sad fact that the majority of 
welfare recipients are minorities.Teach safest sex first
D.B. Krepps
Orientation is a time for incoming 
students to get to know Carnegie Mellon. 
The week-long experience covers many 
topics, ranging from academic skills to 
doing laundry. One particular event was 
the Lets Talk About Sex program.
Needless to say, there was a large 
crowd at the information session. The 
Ballroom was filled with students who 
were (at the very least) quite energetic. 
Most of the students probably came be
cause the title intrigued them. After all, 
it certainly is a subject that appears to 
be on a lot of minds. I imagine that the 
remainder of the students showed up 
because the event was given plenty of 
advertising by the Orientation counse
lors.
The program itself was effective in the 
way it got the point across. There were 
two particularly moving speeches by vic
tims of HIV. Unfortunately, as in most 
public discussions about the dangers of 
premarital sex, the thrust of the speech 
was entirely in the wrong direction. Safe 
sex was emphasized instead of absti
nence. Its not that abstinence was com
pletely forgotten, but it certainly took a 
back seat to the much more liberal op
tion.
The presentation featured appear
ances by ^Condom Man, a hero that 
goes around wearing a big C on his 
chest, a cape, and headgear that befits 
his name. This hero goes around giv
ing out free prophylactics and instruct
ing people how to use them. There was 
even a demonstration using a wooden 
replica of the appropriate part of the 
male anatomy. There were several of 
these scattered about the allroom, so 
that everyone could get a clear view.
I find all of this rather difficult to 
accept. Would there have been an open 
forum on this subject 50 years ago? Not 
likely. Even if one would have taken
place, I am certain that it would not have 
taken place in such a humorous fashion. 
The nature of the program could cause 
one to infer that premarital sex is not a 
problem but a way of life. By making all of 
that behavior seem expected, normal, and 
right, it could theoretically lead to the 
conclusion that it is unexpected, abnor
mal, and wrong to lead a chaste life. 
These (highly incorrect) inferences are 
dangerous indeed, as they possibly could 
put people under sever pressure to do 
things that they may not otherwise do.
Then there was the demonstration. The 
people in charge (through Condom Man 
again) made clear how great sex could be 
with a condom. Now lets think about this 
for a minute. Is it possible that this could 
also tempt people into doing something 
that they might not otherwise do? I think 
so, and it is not a good idea.
One must not forget Condom Man him
self. Now here is a role model that we can 
all look up to. Maybe he should have a 
comic book, or better yet a Saturday morn
ing cartoon. Kids everywhere would make 
sure that when the time comes theyll be 
ready. Parents should give their kids 
condoms starting on their 10th birthday. 
After all, young people today have no self 
control. Thats why they need a hero with 
a motto like: Do what you want... just 
dont be responsible for your actions. 
Sounds to me like the slogan of the Clinton 
Administration.
Its no great secret that condoms are not 
f oolproof. They often fail to provide pro
tection against disease and/or pregnancy. 
Perhaps even more important is the fact 
that they dont protect against the pos
sible psychological complications of sexual 
activity. This is a serious problem in our 
society today, and it is made worse by 
advocating behavior that doesnt conform 
with what makes sense. It has been said 
many times, but the truth bears repeat
ing  we need more traditional family 
values. These values alone will solve the 
problems of unwanted pregnancy and 
AIDS. I cant understand why no one 
believes it.
D.B. Krepps is a freshman in H&SS
It has been argued that tempo
rary sterilization, such as 
Norplant, is but a disguised plan 
to eliminate a generation and re
duce various minority popula
tions. After much soul-searching, 
I disagreed. I feel that if someone 
is going to accept public assis
tance, there must be requisite 
responsibilities. I propose that 
welfare be restructured so that 
those persons who are capable 
must either work or be in school 
in order to receive assistance. 
Single mothers should have day 
care available to them  in fact, 
a group of single mothers could 
form a day care center, thus free
ing other single mothers to work 
or study. Those persons who find 
paying jobs should have welfare 
supplement their income for some 
time so as to enable extra funds 
for further job trainin and/or 
education.Welfare should do ev
erything in its power to get people 
off it. I would gladly pay a slightly 
higher tax towards more welfare, 
if indeed that welfare system 
could show that people were us
ing the system to their advan
tage and working or studying 
their way to higher-paying jobs. 
To ensure that people dont abuse
the system, I propose one final 
caveat: if a welfare recipient is 
physically and mentally capable 
of working, the dole only lasts 
four years. During that time they 
can pick up litter, study CAD, or 
whatever. But after that, they 
must support themselves.
This last proposal may seem 
cruel, and in some ways it is. It 
forces people into the cold and 
admittedly cruel real world, and 
it forces people to accept respon
sibility for themselves. Four years 
of assistance is far more than 
anyone in history, recent past 
excepted, has ever received. 
People must take the initiative 
and get ambition, or starve.
The fundamental point is that 
people can stumble and fall dur
ing their lives. It speaks well of 
our society that we will, meta
phorically, pick people up, ban
dage their scrapes, give them 
lunch money, dust them off, and 
send them on their way. It is 
unreasonable to carry them for 
the rest of their lives if they are 
capable of walking again.
jDavid Hunt is a mechanical 
engineering PhD student, and his 
writings will vary widely .
All beliefs merit tolerance
TOLERANCE, from page 4
people who are in the mainstream. When 
it comes to such Socially Transmitted 
Diseases such as homophobia, racism, 
sexism, and anti-Semitism, Student Sen
ate will jump in to make sure the guilty 
party is brought to justice. When it comes 
to such biases as those against Christians 
or beneficiaries of the Department of De
fense, the administration and Student 
Senate will stand idly by, and may even 
jump in to help the perpetrator. Are these 
socially transmitted diseases untreatable 
or is the medicine just not available through 
CMU?
Student Senate again voted to support 
the expulsion of ROTC from campus. A 
man was allegedly fired from his job on 
campus for refusing to wear a gay-rights 
button. I read Christianity is a mental 
virus on a public bboard at CMU. Time 
and time again, I see the phrase straight 
white Christian male as an archetype for 
one who is closed-minded and oppressive. 
If tolerance includes the expulsion of 
those with mainstream moral values and 
the condemnation of the same, I want no 
part of it. I can sense what some people are 
thinking at this point. ... But those groups 
and people are intolerant; by suppressing 
them we are promoting tolerance. Wrong.
Wrong. Wrong. Tolerance has room for 
everyone. If the word is to mean anything, 
it means that the campus community must 
accept everyone, regardless of belief  
even if ones beliefs contradict the very 
principle which allows the person to hold 
them.
Minorities on campus are free to form 
groups and speak out. So, taking action 
against groups or individuals with oppos
ing outlooks or even discriminatory prac
tices yields no practical advantages.
What it does yield is the precedent that 
any group can be eliminated for having 
philosophies different from those in power.
Would-be censors should keep in mind 
that Hitler did not only attempt to exter
minate Jews and gays; he also attempted 
to exterminate Catholics, labor unionists, 
and many other groups we rarely associ
ate with being disadvantaged.
Student Senate and the administration 
would be wise to kick off the new year, 
keeping in mind the advice of Supreme 
Court Justice Robert Jackson, who wrote 
in Texas v. Johnson: Compulsory unifica
tion of opinion achieves only the unanim
ity of the graveyard.
James S. Brown is a Senior in ECE
Police consider using cows?
BIKE, from page 4
now be admired by the very students they 
protect.
Bicycle patrols have the side benefit of 
allowing officers to show off their muscu
larity.
Hey, Hank, potential theives may re
mark, lets not hoist any cars from CMU 
tonight. Theyve got the spandex patrol 
out tonight.
Yah, lets go sit by the fence and watch 
their cute little butts instead.
Of course, there are other benefits of 
riding mountain bikes. It keeps the offic
ers from riding cows.
You see, cows arent nearly as fast as 
mountain bikes, they cost more to main
tain, and  most importantly  they 
dont come in neon colors. Usually.
They also dont command as much re
spect. Imagine what would happen if a 
thief was caught in the middle of stealing 
a car by a cow-mounted officer.
Officer: Stop, in the name of the law! 
Thief: Hah! Catch me!
Officer: Charge, Bessie!
Cow: (chewing officers bootlaces) 
Moo?
Then again, if we supplied cows to our 
police force, we wouldnt have to worry 
about buying truckloads of manure for 
the Cut. But thats a topic for another 
column.
Declan McCullagh is a junior psychol
ogy major who prefers not to think of neon 
colored cows.But, in these times, who can 
help it.
In elementary school, after 
the summer break, Teachers 
always asked the same ques
tion. What did you do this 
summer. We thought wed 
bring back those pleasant 
memories. What did you do 
this summer?
Mark Lively 
Junior
Mechanical Engineering
I programmed for the CS de
partment working on the Ge
nie.
Kathy Wright 
Freshman transfer 
Graphic Design
This is the first summer I didnt 
work and I got to travel around 
the country.
Heather Arnet
Sophomore
LCS
Samuel Greenfield/Tartan Managing Editor
Ken Kraemer
Freshman
IMG
I worked for the impotency 
department of Georgetown Uni
versity.
I worked as a camp counse
lor and as a host in a restau
rant so I could afford to come 
to this place.
THE TARTAN
Camegle Mellons Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief....Brendan M'Feely
Managing EditorSamuel Greenfield 
Business Mgr.........Michael Harris
News Editor.............Frank Michels
Forum Editor......Andrew Sproule
Sports Ed. Lubomir W. Kochanskyj
Features Editor.........Lauren Heinz
Diversions Editor.......Tina L. Urso
Calendar Editor.....Laura M'Clure
Magazine Editors.....Mami Borek
Barbara Reyes
Art Editor.............Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor.............Jennifer Urso
Production Mgr......Katie Swango
Personnel Mgr...........Keegan Folk
Copy Manager.....Jennifer Forbes
Systems Manager..Chad M'Danlel
Asst. Forum Ed.........Kris Hinrich
Asst. Sports Ed........Eric Strauss
Asst Diversions Ed...........Tara Zane
Asst Magazine Eds. Kristen Beveridge 
Trinette Chandler 
Asst Production Mgr..... Derek Wahila 
Darkroom Manager ....Nathan Houser 
Photo staff Manager........Kevin Chen
Contributing Editors 
Megan Dietz, Dexter Kobayashi
Senior Staff 
David Hunt, Jason Togyer
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Nicole Allen, Mahue 
Dutta, Andi Francioni, Andy 
Glendinning, Jason Helnlein, Micki 
Kochanskyj, Rich Kwiatkowski, 
Decian MeCuilagh, Jason 
Speckland, Steph Stine, Jennifer 
Turner, Erik Witte
Comics 
Matt Goldberg
Photo
Rob Glaser, Kerry Hagan, Reid 
Hecker, Amy Sims
Darkroom
Nan Wang
Production 
Susan Abdalla, Tony deFigio, Becky 
Elroy, Michael Gibson, Brockett 
Horne, Janice M'Clure
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Nathan Dohm, 
Madhav Ghanta, Yerin Kay, Anne 
Lopez, Tonya Rado, Ed Slavishak
Business 
Rose Mills, Olivia Raharja
Junior Staff 
Matt Ball, Allan Bourdius, James S. 
Brown, Eugene Chung, Andrew 
Flores, Tom Harper, Eugene Hong, 
Chad Khunpitiluck, Lisa Krugiak, D. 
B. Krepps, Jason Ma, Matthew 
Messner, Dizzy Murphy, Eileen 
OShea, David Perry, Kanda 
Runapongsa, Kate Smith, Jim 
Snyder, Margaret Stallings, Leanna 
Surina, Jenna Sweterlitsch, Roger 
Wang, John Weber, Elizabeth 
Zamzbelli
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It Is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It Is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
Inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. The editorials 
appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board. Columns and politi
cal cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions 
of authors who are usually, but not neces
sarily, members of the University commu
nity. A letter intended for publication must 
be signed and include the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names 
will be withheld upon request. The Tartan , 
requests that letters be no longer thf^r.' 
500 words. The Tartan reserves the . -right 
to condense or reject any letter. Copyright 
 1993 by The Tartan. The Tartan edito
rial board reserves the right tof withhold 
from publication any copy it deeyhs unfit for 
publication. /Offiqe: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2|lll 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/Fvittsburgh,
PA 15213-3890
Funded in part by your Activit/ies Fee. All 
rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN Ui 0890-3107. 
-----------------------------f-------------

---------------------------------------------------

Computer Science 
Retake
for
15-12X
will be offered
September 18 at 9:00 AM
To sign up contact
Becky Clark
Wean Plea 
xsSWaPa
With this, you With these, you 
can save for years, can save right now
Apple Macintosh Color _ 
Classic * 4180, Built-in 10" Color 
Monitor & Apple Keyboard U. $970
145B 4180, Built-in Keyboard 
and 10" Backlit Super Twist 
Monochrome Display. $1288
That permyjar on your dresser
Apple Macintosh 
LOW 4/80, Apple Basic Color Monitor 
& Apple Keyboard 11. As low as S1282
Apple Macintosh Centris 610 
i/80, Apple Basic Color Monitor & 
Apple Extended Keyboard 11. 
AsfowasSl543
Now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh per- just how affordable a Macintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus 
sonai computers. You can also get special student financing with the Reseller today. And discover the power more college students ^ 
Apple Computer Loan*to make owning a Mac even easier. Tb see choose. The power of Macintosh. The power to be your best? w
\ For more information visit the
; Carnegie Mellon Computer Store
I, or call 268-2636
Amilable to qi -allying students, at participating authorized Apple Campus Resellers. 1993 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, Macintosh and 'The pouer to be )vur best " are registered trademarks ofApple Computer. Inc. Macintosh Centris and PouvrBook are tnulemarks ofApple Computer. Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to A*'

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Tartans prepare for fall season
Football, soccer, cross country, volleyball and tennis teams to start this week
Football ranked 25th in ~.
NCAA Division III by SIYouth movement is in for both 
cross-country teams this season
By LUBOMIR W. KOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon cross-country teams kick off their 
season September 4 with their only scheduled home meet, 
when the Tartans will run against teams from California 
University of Pa., Clarion University of Pa., and Univer
sity of Pittsburgh-Johnstown.
The womens team, coached by Dario Donatelli, is a 
youthful one with only two seniors and one junior. Donatelli, 
though, is singing the 
praises of one of his sopho
mores, Missy Baustert.
Missy will be the num
ber one runner, said 
Donatelli. She looks to be 
in very, very good shape 
this year. She came off a 
good track season, and will 
definitely be dominant, no 
doubt top 10 in the UAA.
Seniors Jodi Piccolo and 
Cynthia Kolanowski, the 
teams two seniors, are 
the co-captains. Theyre 
going to be in the top five 
on the team, no problem, 
said Donatelli.
Apart from these three runners, the womens team is 
very young and inexperienced. Donatelli is impressed 
with three freshman, Becky Buchheit, Sharon Lay, and 
Mahalynn Lu. I think they will be in the top seven on this 
team.
Two runners, senior Aliza Hildebrand and junior Christa 
Sober are studying overseas this semester, and will be 
sorely missed by Donatelli. These two runners would 
have been in my top five.
Donatelli carries a very optimistic outlook into the 
season despite the loss. As you can see, Im counting on 
the younger kids to come through. It looks good to see three 
to four freshman and a couple of sophomores. I have a 
couple more years to build around them.
The UAA championships will be held in Atlanta, GeorITCH,pg3 TO nFr i,dyp,AIg upt,6 
Coach Darlo Donateli!
gia at Emory University on October 23. Last years team 
placed fifth, while the University of Chicago won the title. 
Emory and Brandeis University look like the possible 
frontrunners this season.
Where will the Tartans finish? In the UAA champion
ships, I dont think well place in the top three as a team, but 
I really look for some good placings out of a couple of the 
kids. Im just hoping we can have some good individual 
performances, said Donatelli.
On the mens side, head coach Gary Meckley is already 
faced with the loss of his 
top recruit, John Crew, 
who is out for the season 
with a knee injury. He 
would have made a big 
impact. He could quite pos
sibly be the best runner 
Ive ever recruited here, tal
ent wise, said Meckley.
Meckley also has a very 
young team, with only one 
senior, Jim Langer, and 
three sophomores, Scott 
Moore, Mike Rea, and Matt 
Beam. They will be the 
team leaders, despite their 
relative inexperience. The 
rest of the team is made up 
of 15 new freshmen, including Scott Dworkis, who was the 
fifth best runner in Kansas last year.
This is the youngest team Ive ever coached, Meckley 
said. The majority of these guys never even ran five miles 
in a race before, since high school level races are 3.1 miles. 
It will be a brand new thing for them, he said. I consider 
this a challenge because we are the youngest in the UAA, 
and one of the youngest teams in the East region. Being this 
young, we welcome anyone to.come out for the team. In the 
past, a lot of people never came out because they thought 
they would never get the chance to make the team. This is 
the year to do it.
Meckleys immediate goal is to improve on last years 
performance in the UAA Championships and the NCAA 
Please see CROSS-COUNTRY page 9
ITCH,pg3 TO nFr i,dyp,AIg upt,6 
Coach Gary Meckley
New coach to lead volleyball
with playing time for all of the members. 
Hollands says that she intends on let
ting the team decide what they want to
By RICH KWIATKOWSK3
Tartan Staffwriter
The 1993 Carnegie Mellon football sea
son should prove to be both exciting and 
challenging for the Tartans. The team 
has 15 returning players, including six 
pre-season All-Americans. Junior DT 
Merle Atkinson, senior DT Ben Burton, 
and junior DB Steve Voytovich were 
named National Scholar Athletes by the 
College Football Preview. Burton, junior 
QB Chris Dee, junior HB Jason Grusky, 
and senior LB Chad Wilson were named 
All-American by the College Football Pre
view. Wilson was also named All-American by the Sporting News College Foot
ball Preview.
Chad has all the tools for a great line
backer. He has a great work ethic and is 
a hard nosed linebacker, head coach 
Rich Lackner said of Wilson.
The common theme among the players 
and coaches this season is to stay focused.
If we practice hard, play hard, and 
stay focused and play 100 percent, the 
sky is the limit this season, said Lackner.
, There is more of a team atmosphere 
this season, said Burton, one of the teams 
co-captains. We are more focused and 
expect good things this season.
The Tartans defense returns 15 letter 
winners and eight starters. The defense 
is led by co-captains Wilson and Burton. 
Wilson regis
tered 68 tack
les last sea
son, 46 unas
sisted, to lead 
the Tartan de
fense. Burton 
had 39 tack
les, 32 of 
which were 
unassisted.
The defense 
takes this 
shape: senior 
nose guard 
Jon Hutchinson and starting tackles se
nior Shane Billings and Atkinson round 
out the starting defense line. Returning 
linebackers senior Jeff Blue, sophomore 
Mark Kasperowicz, and junior David 
iViszlay join Wilson in the inside 
linebacking chores. Senior John Knutson, 
sophomores E.J. Tsangaris, Ray Lewis, 
and Tom Bender return to the outside 
linebacker tasks.
The secondary has three returning 
starters. Comerback seniors Jeff Gregor 
and Jerry Fuller, and strong safety junior 
Steve Voytovich return to anchor the ex
perienced secondary. Junior Joe Ferris, 
who is able to play all four secondary 
positions, fills out the secondary.
Looking to the other side of the football, 
the Tartan offense sees 15 letter winners 
and six starters. The offense is led by 
starting quarterback Dee. He passed for 
1,235 yards and 12 touchdowns last sea
son. Dee had a good pre-season camp but 
was bothered by shoulder tendonitis. The 
tendonitis caused Dee not to throw as 
many passes during practice, but he is 
throwing without pain and will be ready 
for the opening game.
Grusky and FB co-captain Brian Horton 
return to the backfield. Grusky led the 
Tartans in rushing last season with 516 
yards, registered 4.8 yds/carry and had 
six touchdowns. Horton ran for 367 yards, 
averaged 5.2 yds/carry, and four touch
downs. Also adding experience to the 
backfield are halfbacks junior Jim Filicko, 
junior Nick Bush, sophomore Mike 
Mathias, and junior QB Matt Neiss.
The receiving corps of senior Andy Van 
Sprang and senior Jarrod Siket is a pic
ture of talent and experience. Van Sprang 
led the Tartans with 20 catches for 342 
yards and three touchdowns. Siket had 
11 receptions for 218 yards and two touch
downs.
The starting offense line, responsible 
for the Tartans averaging235 yards rush
ing, 390 total yards, and 32 points per 
game, returns starting junior center Jim 
Myers and starting tackle junior Kevin 
Keir. Six lettermen join Myers and Keir. 
Senior guards Dave Ekem, Jim Martielli, 
and co-captain John Cain are expected to 
make the biggest impact. Also expected 
to see action this season are sophomore 
center Sean Keane, junior tackle Paul 
Volchko, senior tight end Mike Shirey, 
sophomore tight end Aaron Neal, and 
senior tackle Kevin Jackson.
The Tartans tout a wealth of experi
ence and talent on both sides of the foot
ball, but still face a tough schedule again 
this season. Although the Tartans face 
only four teams with winning seasons 
last year, the UAA games are always 
tough. For the Tartans to make the play
offs this season, they will have to defeat 
rivals Rochester and Allegheny. Last sea
son Rochester handed the Tartans their 
first UAA de
feat and went 
on to win the 
UAA division. 
Allegheny de
feated the Tar
tans last sea
son 35-21.
Allegheny 
and Rochester 
are probably 
our toughest 
challenges. 
However, were 
trying to focus 
on a good Franklin and Marshall team. 
We are taking this season one game at a 
time, said Lackner.
The defeat by Rochester limited the 
chances for the UAA championship and 
the loss to Allegheny the next week virtu
ally knocked the Tartans out of conten
tion for a playoff spot.
The Allegheny and Rochester games 
were tough, no doubt. We were down 
early and made mistakes. This season we 
are concentrating on cutting down mis
takes. We also have more incentive to 
beat a ranked team, said Cain.
Burton said, We are using the Allegh
eny and Rochester games as fuel to fire 
up. We know what we have. We are going 
to let our actions do the talking.
The coaching staff is just as excited 
about this season as the players. The 
coaches are all young at heart. If you 
came to practice and the games you would 
see the enthusiasm of the coaches, said 
Lackner. The Tartan coaching staff rep
resents over 250 years of coaching expe
rience.
One area the coaches and players be
lieve needs improvement is the fan sup
port. Lackner said that the team is disap
pointed about the lack of support.
The team would appreciate more sup
port. The fans would get a chance to 
watch a very competitive Division III 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 11
Tennis, Anyone?
By ANDY GLENDENNING
Tartan Staffwriter
The womens tennis team is looking 
forward to having an excellent year. 
It opens the season with an away 
match against Frostburg State Uni
versity and Waynesburg College on 
Saturday, then returns home to face 
Seton Hill College on Sunday.
Coach Peter Moss feels very confi
dent with his predominantly veteran 
team. This is the first team [with 
players] that I have coached for fouryears, says Moss. The teams return
ing co-captains are juniors Whitney 
Weber and Sharyn Rotunno. Also re
turning are past All-UAA player 
sophomore Stephanie Kukura, and 
sophomore Kinga Czerska of the 
Czerska Twins. Her sister, Monika, 
is currently studying abroad in Swit
zerland.
The team will undoubtedly get a 
boost from playing on the newly in
stalled courts on campus. This may 
provide the necessary edge in matches 
such as the one against the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh on October 4. The 
team lost to Pitt last year by a score of 
5-4 in a very close match, and is 
looking forward to facing them again 
this year.
This years team is better prepared 
for the UAA Championships, said 
Moss. The Championships will be held 
at Washington University at St. Louis 
in the spring.
In addition to the Championships, 
the team is also anticipating a posi
tive performance at the Catholic Uni
versity Tournament on October 9 and 
10. It will face seven other womens 
teams at the tournament: Catholic 
University, Goucher College, 
Dickinson College, Frostburg State 
University, Marymount University, 
Marywood University, and
Millersville College. This is the first 
time that eight womens teams have 
gotten together in a tournament, says 
Moss.
Assuming that the team adapts well 
Please see TENNIS, page 9
By RAMSEY HONG
Tartan Art Editor
Heather Hollands, who already has 
her masters degree and doesnt intend 
to have a baby anytime soon, plans on 
being head womens volleyball coach for 
some time to come. I mention that only 
because past coaches have resigned from 
the position for these very reasons. Both 
continuing your education and having a 
baby are great 
things to do, but I 
think CMU 
should be pleased 
to have Hollands 
on their coaching 
staff.
A former vol
leyball player 
from Toronto,
Hollands was re
cruited by the 
University of 
Pittsburgh, 
where she played 
for four years 
(19881991), 
earning four var
sity letters in the 
process. She 
helped lead the 
Panthers to four 
consecutive Big 
East Conference Championships (1988, 
89,90,91). Last season she was a gradu
ate assistant coach under Pitt Head 
Coach Sue Woodstra, a former Olym
pian on 1984 Olympic Team.
According to Hollands, her experi
ence under Woodstra helped her become 
a better player. This was due to 
Woodstras non-abusive and challeng
ing coaching techniques which Hollands 
hopes to apply in her own coaching. She 
wants to provide a fun, supportive, and 
competitive environment to challenge 
the players to be the best they can be.
I have a talented group of girls that 
are intense and focused, said Hollands. 
Due to the unusually large number of 
team members, there will be a problem
do.
The team, which is currently com
prised of six returning players and 10 ! 
new players, has already started its ! 
training and has been practicing since ! 
the first day of school. Because of the I 
obvious changes in the coaching and 1 
team composition, one might think !
Hollands would < 
be at a disadvan- ' 
tage.Herknowledgeoftheopponentsabilities is  
limited, but, she  
says, It would ; 
be wrong to com
pare this new 
team to the op
ponents who ; 
have probably 
also undergone ; 
changes. ;
The six re- j 
turning players  
are junior setter  
Molly Brennan, 
sophomore de- i 
fensive special- j 
ist Wendy Bur- i 
ton, and hitters : 
sophomore Jen- ; 
nifer Goetz, sophomore Patty Bruno, 
senior Jennifer New, and junior Carolyn j 
Skarada.
The new players are junior Paula Dube, j 
sophomores Lori Gregor and Carole j 
Haggerty, and freshmen Ann Bielke, | 
Sarah Pacocha, Evette Rivera, Gina ; 
Schuyler, and Tara Suntoke.
After watching one practice I can only 
agree with Hollands that the players do 
indeed have a noticeable focus and in
tensity. It will be great to watch the j 
team this season.
Their first game will be atWaynesburg j 
College on September 7 at 6:30 pm, 
followed by the Carnegie Mellon Invitational, September 1011, which will be , 
held in Skibo gymnasium.
Tartan Football Columnist John 
Weber's Top Five NFL Picks
1. Dallas at Washington (Monday Night Football)
The Skins may pay Emmitt $4 million not to play. Expect the Cowboys to pull this one out but not 
by much. The Redskins will throw everything they have at the Cowboys. Cowboys 2120.
2. San Francisco at Pittsburgh
Without Steve Young and Steve Bono, the 49ers offense is average. The Steelers will probably start 
Tomczak. Running and defense will be the keys. Steelers (in a squeaker) 2017.
3. Houston at New Orleans
What a bonus for the Oiler s: an extra game in a dome for the run and shoot. Bad news for the Saints. 
This one will start out close but expect the Oilers to be alone in the end zone in the second half.
Oilers 2413.
4. Phoenix at Philadelphia
The Cardinals are on their way up and the Eagles are on their way down. This is in Philly however, 
so give this one to the Eagles 1713.
5. Miami at Indianapolis
The Colts will be the upset experts in 93, but not this time. It will be a close one though. Dolphins 
2820.
"/f we practiced hard, 
play hard, and stay fo
cused and play 100%, 
the sky is the limit this 
season
Coach Rich Lackner
ITCH,pg3 TO nFr i,dyp,AIg upt,6 
New volleyball head coach Heather Hollands

---------------------------------------------------

hoiuf
A coupBe of strokes will 
soothe fine sting of the new if@ar*
Learn to Row.
Become a Coxswain.
Find out NOW about rowing.
HERE9S HOW:
Trailing Meeting for New Crew 
Members & Novices
Tuesday, August 31st 
6 am 
Conference Room 
or contact Chris Maples, club VP  email: cm5e
Sponsored in part by your Student Activities Fee
Back-To-School with Claris Works 2.0! S!
It's the time saving tool that eliminates the constant switching 
back and forth between modules that occurs with other 
Works programs..
Use ClarisWorks for all your
 Word processing, outlining, charting & database taste!
 Desktop Publishing newsletters & flyers
 Slide Show Presentations
 MultiMedia Reports
 Complete Outlining Built-in 
 Variable Column Widths, Custom Text 
Styles
> Text Wrap around Graphics
 Full Color Painting & Draw Environment
 Presentation Slide Show
 QuickTime Support, Publish & Subscribe 
 Pictogram Charts, Hi-Low Close Charts
Use Filemaker Pro 2.0 for all your Database projects
 Incorporate QuickTime video dips
 Use powerful Scriptingenvironment
 Increase power with Lookup Files
 Cross-piatform transparency; share FileMaker files 
between your Mac & Windows machines
M
Use MacWrite Pro for all your Word Processing Projects
 One-step tables
 Style Sheets for Paragraph and Character 
0 Multiple Sections in a document
 Text Wrap
 Frames & Full-featured frame control
 Multiple Columns, Variable Column Widths
 Kerning, Tracking, Leading
 Multiple Headers and Footers, Endnotes
All your Back-To-School Claris Products can be purchased at the 
CMU Computer Store, 4910 Forbes Ave 268-2636
For information on Departmental Site License Purchases, call 
Karen Lukas at 268-5157
For additional information on all Claris Products, 
call Ronnie Peters at 212 239-7582
D Claris Corporaiionl993 Simply Powerful Software. All Rights Reserved. ClarisWorks and 
MacWrite Pro are trademarks of Claris Corporation.
Open House
Meet the Career Center staff; obtain valuable 1993-94 publications; learn about services and procedures; 
get your questions answered.
Warner Hall Patio & Wed., September 8 10:00am - 5:30pm
Room 19, Warner Hall
Graduate School Week  September 20 - 24
Monday, September 20
Tartan Grill
Programs & Workshops
Graduate School Express 
Graduate School:
The Whether & When Decisions Skibo 12
Tuesday, September 21
The MBA and You GSIA 152
Getting into Graduate School:
Tips from Insiders Adamson Wing
Wednesday, September 22
Graduate Scholarship and
Fellowship Meeting Skibo 13
Law School: An Informed Decision Baker Hall 254C
Graduate School Opportunities 
in Biology
It's Not Too Late to Consider a 
Career in Health Professions
Thursday, September 23 
Graduate School Opportunities 
in Management
Mellon Institute 
Conference Room
Scaife Hall 120
Skibo 13
10:00am - 2:00pm 
4:30pm - 5:30pm 
4:30pm - 6:00pm 
5:00pm - 6:30pm
4:30pm - 5:30pm 
4:30pm - 5:30pm
5:00pm - 6:00pm
6:30pm - 7:30pm
4:30pm - 6:00pm
Job Fair Workshops Room 12, Skibo 
Room 12, Skibo 
Wherrett Room
Technical Opportunities 
Conference Skibo Ballroom
Help for Less 
Decided MajorsRoom 100, Skibo
International Student
Job Fair American University
Business Opportunities 
Conference Skibo Ballroom
Alternative Careers:
Non-Traditional 
Options for Graduate
Students Faculty Dining Room
Mon., September 27 4:30pm - 5:30pm
Tues., October 26 4:30pm - 5:30pm
Wed., November 3 4:30pm - 5:30pm
Tues., September 28 10:00am - 4:00pm
Tues., October 26 4:30pm - 5:30pm
Thurs., October 28 To Be Announced
Thurs., November 4 10:00am - 4:00pm
Thurs., November 18 6:00pm
Read the Andrew bboard ofticial.career-center
additions and changes to this schedule, job 
vacancy postings, campus recruiting schedules, 
employer information sessions, new Career library 
book acquisitions, and other Career Center 
information.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  30 August 1993
Watch for quarterbacks in recliners this Sunday
Quarterback Sneak
Pl easS WIPIT
Something bothered me about 
the Steelers-Vikings game last 
week. It wasnt the score, it was 
the loudspeakers on the 20-yard 
line on the side lines. In another 
NFL experiment, the league is 
allowing each quarterback to use 
the speakers to project their voice 
over noisy crowds. This is the 
dumbest and most cowardly act 
ever perpetratedby the NFL. Not 
only can quarterbacks throw the 
ball away without a grounding 
penalty this year, but in the fu
ture they may be able to execute 
a drive without having to strain 
their voices. Maybe we should
Serve's up!
TENNIS, from page 7
to its new home, the Tartans look 
like they can expect a good seajson.
Moss will conduct free clinics 
iduring the month of September 
for all CMU students, faculty, 
and staff. They willbe from 11:30 
;12:30 pm every Tuesday and 
Thursday. For info, call Moss at 
268-5179.
The grand opening of the new 
tennis courts will take place on 
Thursday, September 9th from 
11:30 am3 pm. There will be 
representatives from tennis 
equipment manufacturers, and a 
prize which will be given to the 
male and female students with 
the fastest serve as recorded on a 
radar gun.
put recliners on the,sidelines for 
the quarterbacks when they are 
not playing.
The NFL doesnt seem to un
derstand that injuries are a part 
of football. Nobody likes to see 
anyone gethurt, butletsnotpamper quarterbacks. America was 
builtoninventiveness, soleteach 
team find its own way to combat 
crowd noise. Besides, what does 
home field advantage mean any
way? Isnt crowd noise part of the 
game? Luckily this speaker sys
tem is still in the experimental 
stage, but lets just hope it stays 
that way.
I caught the halftime huddle 
of Al, Frank, and Dan on Monday 
Night Football last week just as 
they started to give their Super 
Bowl predictions. Two ofthe three 
said that San Diego would go to 
the Super Bowl in 93. I was as
tonished, consideringthe fact that 
San Diego is basically the same 
football team as last year. San 
Diego is a good team, butis not
ready for tlie Super Bowl. Give 
Stan Humphries and Junior Seau 
one or two more playoff experi
ences and they should be ready.
Kansas City will win their divi
sion. Even without Christian 
Okoye, the Chiefs will be the team 
tobeatinthe West. JoeMontanas 
only experience in the NFL is 
winning and it wont stop with 
the 49ers. The Broncos will slip 
into second in the West. The Bron
cos running game will flourish 
with the addition of Rod Bemstine 
(from San Diego). New head coach 
Wade Phillips knows how to use 
Elway, so expect more Elway 
comebacks in 93.
Put the Chargers a close third 
and the Seahawks a not-so-close 
fourth. Seattle rookie quarter
back Rick Mirer doesnt quite fit 
Tom Flores run and gun of
fense, but good defense will help 
them stay in front of the fifthplace Raiders. Jeff Hostetler will 
not be able to help the aging Raid
ers very much, especially with
Ronnie Lott going to the Jets.
In the East, Don Shula has 
given QB Dan Marino two new 
receivers, Mark Ingram and Irv
ing Fryar. This, combined with 
an improving defense, should give 
the Dolphins the best chance at 
the Show. The Dolphins should 
be the team to beat in the AFC in 
93. The Colts will rock the league 
and steal second place from the 
Bills. Their defense played very 
well last year, as did signal-caller 
Jeff George. Despite a long hold
out that cost him his starting job 
on opening day, George seems to 
be maturing quickly in the AFC 
East, and should regain his spot 
from Jack Trudeau, Tom Tupa, 
andDonMajkowski. Expectmore 
upsets from the Colts in 93. The 
Bills still have the nucleus of a 
championship team, but support 
players such as Shane Conlan 
are beginning to leave in free 
agency. With the retirement of 
James Lofton, the Buffalo Bills 
are too weak to contend in 1993.
Far behind the Bills in fourth will 
be the Patriots; expect a lot of 
embarrassing losses for Bill 
Parcells.
Finally, put the Jets in last 
place. Bruce Coslet is trying to 
bring back the good ol day s with 
Boomer Esiason, but all he is 
going to get is an old quarter
back. Ronnie Lott will help the 
Jets defense, but the NFL has no 
respect for greatplayerspast their 
prime. Dont expect much from 
the Jets in 93.
On December 19 the Houston 
Oilers come to Three Rivers to 
play the Pittsburgh Steelers. That 
could be the game for the AFC 
Central Division. If youre a 
Steeler fan, start praying for snow 
now. The Steelers should re
peat as AFC Central Division 
Champions. Kevin Greene will 
definitely help the pass rush of 
the Steelers. The secondary is 
about the same and the line looks 
solid. The Steelers go into the 
opener with three very good runWOMEN'S TENNISWOMENS AND MENS CROSS-COUNTRY
Date
Sept. 4
Opponent(s)
Frostburg State University
Time
1:00 pmDateOpponent(s)Time
(with Waynesburg College)Sept. 4CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY of Penn.11:45 amSept. 5SETON HILL COLLEGENoon
Sept. 9GROVE CITY COLLEGE3:00 pmCLARION UNIVERSITY
Sept. 11 
Sept. 12
California University of Penn. 
WEST LIBERTY STATE COLLEGE
11:00am 
2:00 pmUNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH-JOHNSTOWN
Sept. 14GENEVA COLLEGE3:00 pmSept. 11California University of Penn. Invitational11:00 amSept. 18Gannon University11:00am
Sept. 19Penn State-Behrend College9:00 amSept. 18Indiana University of Penn. Invitational11:00 am
Sept. 21
(with University of Rochester) 
Seton Hill College3:00 pmSept. 25Dickinson College Invitational12:30 pm
Sept. 24-26Rolex TournamentTBAOct. 9WOMEN  Slippery Rock Univ. Invitational11:00 am(at Trenton State University)
Sept. 28WESTMINSTER COLLEGE3:00 pmMEN  ALUMNI MEETTBA
Oct. 4UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH3:00 pmOct. 16Grove City College11:15 amOct. 6Chatham College3:00 pm
Oct. 9-10Catholic University Tournament8:30 am(with Washington & Jefferson College)
MENS TENNISOct. 23University Athletic Association Championships TBA
DateOpponentTime(at Emory University)Sept. 12WEST LIBERTY STATE COLLEGE2:00 pm
Sept. 17Allegheny College3:00 pm. Nov. 13NCAA Mideast Regional ChampionshipsTBA
Sept. 18Gannon University8:00 am(at Allentown College)Oct. 1-4Rolex Toura ament8:00 am
(at Swarthmore College)Nov. 20NCAA Championships (GRINELL)TBA
Career Center Express information tables are designed to bring you resources and advising in a way convenient 
to your busy schedule. You may also schedule an individual appointment with a cdunselor to discuss any of your 
career issues'. Student groups and academic departments may also request on-site programs about a variety of 
career topics through a new Career Center Express initiative. Contact the Career Center at 268-2064 for details.
Career Library ExpressThe Cut 
Doherty Hall 
Highlander Cafeteria 
Grey Matter
Weds., September 1 
Thurs., September 9 
Tues., November 16 
Thurs., December 2
10am-2pm
10am-2pm
10am-2pm
10am-2pm
Resume & Cover Letter 
Express
The Cut 
Doherty Hall 
Highlander Cafeteria
Weds., September 1 
Thurs., September 9 
Tues., September 14
10am-2pm
10am-2pm
10am-2pm
Career Goal ExpressThe CutThurs., September 210am-2pm
Graduate School ExpressTartan GrillMon., September 2010am-2pm
Interview ExpressTartan GrillWeds., September 2910am-2pm
Job Search ExpressBaker Hall LobbyWeds., October 2010am-2pm
Summer ExpressHighlander Cafeteria 
Grey Matter
Tues., November 16 
Thurs., December 2
10am-2pm
10am-2pm
egie
Read the Andrew bboard oftlclal.career-center 
additions and changes to this schedule, job 
vacancy postings, campus recruiting schedules, 
employer Information sessions, new Career library 
book acquisitions, and other Career Center 
information.
classified
CH, pg3O
Furniture sale. Perfect 
apartment/dorm furniture. 
Real cheap/real convenient to 
campus. Multiple sofas, love 
seats, chairs, tables. Delivery 
available. 731-8627 leave 
message.
eHnp
Club leaders for Young 
Judaea. Responsible, creative, 
must like children. Judaic 
background required. Sunday 
meetings, September  April 
employment. Salary plus 
expenses. Licensed driver. 
Call Y.J. Regional Office. 
521-4877.
I need someone to type 
revisions to my Ph.D. thesis 
(Its philosophy) on my 
Macintosh while I recover 
from tendonitis. S/he need not 
be the worlds fastest typest 
( as I am not the worlds 
fastest reviser), but some 
typing skill is obviously
Tartan Business
is looking for responsible people to help with the 
production and layout of the Classifieds Section. 
Work on new computers with the latest software in 
order to produce a high quality format. Contact 
Michael at x8-2111 for further information.
Something to Sell? Something you Want? 
Let people know in the Classifieds. Send 
your ad today!
ning backs (Barry Foster, Tim 
Worley, and Leroy Thompson), a 
great offensive line, and abso
lutely no passing game. The Oil
ers defense has been revived un
der Buddy Ryan and should be as 
tough as ever. One question mark, 
however, is how healthy Warren 
Moon will be in 93. If Moon stays 
healthy, the Oilers will definitely 
make a run at the division title.
The Cleveland Browns will be 
battling the Bengals for third 
place all year long. The Browns 
lost Kevin Mack to retirement, 
and will lose Bemie Kosar in a 
few years. Dont expect too much 
competition from the Browns.
It is the Bengals first year in a 
long time without Boomer 
Esiason starting. Young David 
Klingler will be backed up by 
former Raider Jay Schroeder at 
quarterback this year. Other than 
that, the Bengals are basically a 
shell of a team.
John Weber is a junior civil 
engineering major.
Cross-Country 
starts season
CROSSCOUNTRY, from page 7
Eastern Championships. Last 
year the Tartans finished 6th in 
the UAA and 8th in the East.
This year the University of 
Rochester, Case WestemReserve 
University, and Emory Univer
sity should be strong. They all 
have older teams, all juniors and 
seniors.
Despite this, Meckley is opti
mistic as he builds for the future, 
when other teams are in CMUs 
present situation.
They should be graduating 
loads of people next year, and 
hopefully our team will develop 
and take advantage, he said. '
required. Pay is $5/hour. 
Hours are very flexible. Call 
David at 441-6799
pO,FriOp
How will you pay for col
lege? Announcing a scholar
ship and grant matching 
service for $89.00. Guaran
teed six qualified matches or 
your money back. Call Di
ploma Unlimited 351-7778.
Poetry Workbench. Read 
your poetry/stories to your 
peers. Free appreciation/help/ 
interaction. In order to read, 
just bring 10 copies. Mondays 
7:30pm, GSIA 240. Showup 
or contact Tom Morton. 268- 
2306.
d,gFO3
Spring Break 94  Sell 
trips, earn cash, and go free! 
Student Travel Services is 
now hiring campus reps. Call 
800-648-4849.
Classified Policy
Rates
1-20 words..........$5 per week
21-50 words........$8 per week
51 -100 words.....$10 per week
 Classifieds must be paid by 
cash or check before the first 
scheduled run date.
 On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by 
journal transfer with a valid 
account number.
 Classifieds are not subject to 
discounts applicable to display 
ads.
 The Tartan is published on the 
following Mondays: 9/7, 9/13, 
9/20,9/27, 10/4, 10/18, 10/ 
25, 11/1, 11/15, 11/22,
Attention Readers:
Before responding to 
advertisements requesting 
money, you may wish to 
investigate the company. 
The Tartan cannot assume 
responsibility for the 
validity of such advertise
ments. For more informa
tion regarding the investi
gation of companies, The 
Tartan suggests readers 
contact the Better Busi
ness Bureau.
Deadline
The deadline for submission of 
classified advertisements to The 
Tartan is 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication.
- THE TARTAN 
268-2111
Klfi.rt if*

---------------------------------------------------

IM News
SPORTS IN SEASON
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Entries for the 1993 season are due on Thursday 
by 4:30 p.m. Teams may compete in four leagues: 
Major, Intermediate, Minor, and Women Only.
. This years games will be played on the astroturf 
field in Gesling Stadium.
The 1993 rules clinic will be held Thursday at 
4:30 p.m. in the small gym at Skibo Gymnasium. 
All teams must have a representative present.
 Signup sheets are still available at the I.M. 
office.
TENNIS
Tennis rosters are due by Thursday, September 
9, at 4:30 p.m. All matches will be played on the 
newly resurfaced CMU tennis courts.
Teams need a minimum of four players, with a 
maximum of eight, and will play two singles and 
one doubles match at the same time.
Last year, a record 43 teams played tennis.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Co-Rec Volleyball rosters are due by 4:30 p.m. on 
Thursday, September 9.
n Co-Rec rules require three males and three fe
males on the court at all times. The roster limit is 
eight females and eight males.
UPCOMING SPORTS
GOLF
The 1993 intramural golf tournament, The E.J. 
Birdy Open, will be held at Schenley Park Golf 
Course at a date and time to be announced. There 
must be a minimum of four golfers per team. 
Entry forms are available in the I.M. office.
BUSINESS
The first I.M. board meeting will take place on 
Wednesday at 11:30 a.m. in the I.M. office. All 
organizations fielding teams are invited to attend 
the meeting.
This years officers are Dave Ekem, the I.M. 
President (x2-5354), and Tricia Williams (x2-5873), 
the Womens I.M. President. The Vice-President 
and Secretary will be elected at this weeks meet
ing.
Officials for football and soccer are still needed. 
If interested, contact Assistant I.M. Director Mike 
Mastroianni (x8-2193).
If there are any questions pertaining to the CMU 
I.M. program, contact either Director of Intramu
ral Athletics Earl J. Birdy (x8-2214) or Mastroianni.
Compiled by 
ERIC STRAUSS
WOMENS SOCCER SCHEDULE
Date OpponentTime
Sept. 8WAYNESBURG COLLEGE7:30 pm
Sept. 11Case Western Reserve University1:00 pm
Sept. 15ALLEGHENY COLLEGE7:30 pm
Sept. 18Washington University (Mo.)3:30 pm
Sept. 22ROBERT MORRIS COLLEGE7:30 pm
Sept. 25Hiram College1:00 pm
Sept. 29Seton Hill College4:00 pm
Oct. 3Emory University1:00 pm
Oct. 6Washington & Jefferson College4:00 pm
Oct. 9Marymount University (Va.)1:00 pm
Oct. 10Goucher College (Md.)3:00 pm
Oct. 15SLIPPERY ROCK UNIVERSITY of Penn.7:30 pm
Oct. 17Oberlin College3:00 pm
Oct. 20BETHANY COLLEGE7:30 pm
Oct. 22UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER5:30 pm
Oct. 24BRANDEIS UNIVERSITY1:00 pm
Oct. 28Grove City College3:00 pm
 Oct. 30UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO1:00 pm
MENS SOCCER SCHEDULE
Date OpponentTime
Sept. 8Washington & Jefferson College5:00 pm
Sept. 11Case Western Reserve University3:30 pm
Sept. 18Washington University (Mo.)1:00 pm
Sept. 21LaROCHE COLLEGE7:30 pm
Sept. 24WAYNESBURG COLLEGE7:30 pm
Sept. 26ALLEGHENY COLLEGE1:00 pm
Oct. 1 JNew York University4:00 pm
Oct. 3Emory University3:00 pm
Oct. 6WESTMINSTER COLLEGE7:30 pm
Oct. 9Franklin & Marshall College2:00 pm
Oct. 13UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH7:30 pm
Oct. 16Penn State-Behrend College1:00 pm
Oct. 19GROVE CITY COLLEGE7:30 pm
Oct 22UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER7:30 pm
Oct. 24BRANDEIS UNIVERSITY3:00 pm
Oct. 27BETHANY COLLEGE7:30 pm
Oct. 30UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO3:00 pm
3
11 days only! September 1-11,1993
As a student, you normally save 
20% off at Eyetique. But for 11 days 
only, save an additional 10% 
that's a total savings of 30% on the 
area's most incredible selection of 
unique designer eyewear!
 L.A. Eyeworks
 Giorgio Armani
 Oakley  Revo
 Jean-Paul Gaultier*
 Oliver Peoples*
 and many more!
Save 30% on contact lenses, too!13
Jfou^jnus^j 
jpreseirtyouiJ 
student IDj 
for discount I
QUIRREl
1^422-5300
* Save 30% on lenses only 
O Disposable contacts excluded. No other offers or discounts apply.
CMUBOOKSTORE
CAPITOL
Take $1 off all 
cassettes regularly 
priced $8.99 and 
over and $2 off all 
compact discs in 
stock $11.99 and over.
i P 
i;-M
QUANTITIES ON TITLES PICTURED MAY BE LIMITED
-------

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  30 August 1993
Three deaths and a stupid draft pick fill the NBA summer
-----
The Gym Rat
Pl 3yPaAuT Wt 6ahsoSfclw
The summer has been filled 
with tragedy for the National 
Basketball Association. Two of 
its leading players died, and the 
father of the sports most popular 
player was murdered. The colle
giate draft was a much antici
pated opportunity to shift the fo
cus away from these tragedies.
Reggie Lewis died of a heart
attack during a pickup game two 
months after he collapsed during 
the playoffs. Despite a number of 
medical opinions concerning his 
heart condition and playing ca
reer, the Boston Celtics foward 
decided to play. Obviously this 
was a tragic decision.
Drazen Petrovic of the New 
Jersey Nets was killed in a car 
accident in Europe. He had blos
somed into the leader of the Nets, 
averaging over 20 points a game. 
As a member of the Croatian 
Olympic team, he lead the team 
to a silver medal performance 
after losing to the United States.
The Chicago Bulls Michael 
Jordan's father, James Jordan, 
was found murdered. Jordans
year has been a rollercoaster ride 
to say the least. His fathers death 
capped off a year which went from 
winning his second Olympic gold 
medal and a third straight World 
Championship, to the media at
tention given to his gambling hab
its. Witness how Jordan deals 
with the trauma to see a valuable 
lesson in human nature.
Sports have their dark side. 
But they also have a bright and 
invigorating side, which renews 
and refreshes hopes and dreams. 
For example,the drafting of col
lege and foreign players by the 
NBA has become a major media 
event.
Not one person I have talked to 
was surprised by the selection of
Michigans Chris Webber as 
Orlandos number one pick. It 
was the trade with Golden State 
for their number three pick, 
Anfemee Hardaway, and three 
future first round draft picks, that 
surprised and disappointed many 
people. I think it was a great 
move. The Shaq Attack needs a 
skilled guard to feed him the rock 
where he can dominate; 
Hardaway can handle it. I didnt 
see Webber and ONeal in a 
compatiable situation. This trade 
will put the Warriors on top of the 
Western Division as long as. Chris 
Mullin, Billy Owens, and Tim 
Hardaway stay healthy.
The Philadelphia 76ers pick 
disgusted me. With all the talent
present in the draft, they decide 
to go with 7'6'' Shawn Bradley 
from Brigham Young University, 
a player who hasnt played any 
basketball the last two years 
while on a Mormon mission in 
Austraila. The guy will not sur
vive in the East, let alone the 
NBA. I cant wait to see him tiy to 
defend pivotmen like Shaq.
He is in bad basketball shape, 
and he is in pathetic physical 
shape. The 76ers personal train
ers admit that he is in worse 
shape than a non-athlete. What a 
wasted pick. They should have 
selected Jamaal Mashbum from 
the University of Kentucky, who 
was taken fourth by the Dallas 
Mavericks. He would have been a
major componentto getting Philly 
back to their glory days when Dr. 
J, Moses Malone, Bobby Jones, 
and Maurice Cheeks made the 
Sixers the strongest team in the 
East.
The Boston Celtics drafted Acie 
Earl in the first round, but Kevin 
Gamble cannot replace Lewis. 1
Larry Bird is entering his sec
ond year of retirement, and will 
be joined by Kevin McHale. The 
Chief,RobertParish, is also near
ing the end of his career. As a 
result, it will be many years be
fore the Boston Celtics see an
other championship team.
Lubomir W. Kochanskyj, Tar
tan Sports Editor, isaseniorHistory major.
1993 season has been one long tryout for the San Diego Padres
Out of Left Field
Pl OTuh pmToyff
As September 1 and Major 
League Baseballs roster expan
sion period rapidly approaches, 
the fans  those that havent 
been alienated by the players, 
the owners, or both are getting 
ready to see the crown jewels of 
their favorite teams farm sys
tem.
Unless, of course, they are fans 
of the San Diego Padres, in which
case they have been seeing those 
gems all year. The Padres own
ership has opted to drastically 
cut costs this season, and the 
team has undergone a major 
youth movement.
A year ago at this time, the 
Padres were still fighting in the 
pennant race which the Atlanta 
Braves would eventually win, and 
the team finished 82-80, third in 
the National League West. As of 
Thursday, the Padres were 49- 
78, a mere game and a half ahead 
ofthe expansion Colorado Rockies 
in the West, and boasting a .386 
winning percentage which would 
not even lead the major league 
batting race.
On September 1,1992, the Pa
dres lineup was: catcher, Benito 
Santiago, a perennial All-Star; 
first base, Fred McGriff, a peren
nial 30+ home run hitter; second 
base, Kurt Stillwell, a multi-million dollar free agent; third base, 
Gary Sheffield, contending for the 
Triple Crown; shortstop, Tony 
Fernandez, another All-Star; left 
field, Jerald Clark, a steady and 
talented player; center field, 
Darrin Jackson, an outstanding 
defensive outfielder with power; 
and in right field, Tony Gwynn, 
one of the best hitters in the his
tory of the game.
The pitching staff featured 
Andy Benes, a major talent; vet
eran Bruce Hurst, always a 
double-digit winner; Greg Har
ris, another talented hurler; Craig 
Lefferts, an ex-stopper turned 
starter; Randy Myers, a flamethrowing closer; and steady 
middle-relievers Mike Maddux, 
Jeremy Hernandez, and Larry 
Andersen.
On September 1,1993, Gwynn 
and Benes will be the only ones 
left on the team. Lefferts was 
traded before the 1992 season 
ended. Santiago, Myers, and 
Andersen left as free agents; 
McGriff, Sheffield, Fernandez, 
Jackson, Harris, Hurst, Maddux, 
and Hernandez were traded; 
Clark was lost in the expansion 
draft; and Stillwell was released. 
All of this in the name of costcutting, says ownership.
The new, not-so-improved Pa
dres include Brad Ausmus, 
Guillermo Velasquez, Craig 
Shipley, Archi Cianfrocco, Ricky 
Guitierrez, Phil Plantier, Derek 
Bell, and Gwynn. The pitchers 
include Benes, Wally Whitehurst, 
DougBrocail, Andy Ashby, Trevor 
Hoffman, and Gene Harris.
These guys are not even house
hold names in their own house
holds. Many of these new players 
were acquired for the expensive 
veterans  for instance, 
Guitierrez for Lefferts, Hofifman 
for Sheffield, and so on. Most of 
them are rookies, many make the 
major league minimum.
Gwynn and Benes are the only 
players left on the team with mil
lion-dollar salaries. The Padres 
have reduced their payroll to the 
lowest in the major leagues, and 
their level of play is even lower.
Admittedly, Bell and Plantir 
are rising stars. Ausmus was one 
of the prizes of the Yankee sysi 
tem, Harris is becoming a fin 
closer, and some of the others 
may yet pan out. However, for 
the most part, 1993 has been one 
big September for Padres fans, 
who have seen their team roster 
go from a list of All-Stars to a list 
of Las Vegas Starsthe Padres; 
Triple-A farm club.
Eric Strauss, Tartan Assistant 
Sports Editor, is a sophomore 
Creative Writing major.
Football kicks off season Baseball teams brawling their way down the stretch
FOOTBALL, from page 7
team every week, said Lackner.
The games are fun for the fans, said Burton. Division III has the 
emotion and we should win a lot of games this season.
The Tartans open home against the Franklin and Marshall Diplo
mats on September 4 at 1:30 pm. We have the ability tq have a great 
season,said Lackner. Well take one game at a time, stay focused 
and deliver an exciting season 
In its annual college football preview edition, Sports Illustrated 
;(SI) ranked the Tartans 25th.
In the UAA coaches pre-season poll, CMU was selected to finish 
second in the division behind the University of Rochester 
Yellowjackets.
The Carnegie Mellon Tartans football team is one steeped in 
tradition and talent. Following is a list of Tartan accomplishments, 
compiled with the help of Bruce Gerson, Sports Information Director 
for CMU.
 Eighteen consecutive winning football seasons, 1975-1992
 Five NCAA Division in Playoff Berths
 Nine conference championships
 The 14th winningest team of.the 1980s, 62-19-3 (.756)
The Tartans continued their tradition of hard play and winning
last season.
A 7-2 overall record, 3-1 University Athletic Association 
The Tartans have won five in a row, 16 of their last 18 and 29 of 
their last 33
Extended its NCAA Division III scoring record to 195 consecu
tive games
Ranked among Division III leaders in scoring offense, and 
rushing offense
Baseball with Andy
Pl gSvl b.ISvuSSuSj
Theres only about a month left 
for teams to get in their bids for 
playoff contention. The race in 
the AL East is still so close that 
the Blue Jays and the Yankees 
have decided to merge into a 
single team. Chicago and San 
Francisco both have decent leads 
in their divisions, but they are 
being challenged by the Rangers 
and the Braves, respectively.
All the news this week is in the 
NL East, which seems to be the 
only division that has made up 
its mind on whom to send to the 
playoffsand whom not to send. 
The Phillies have such a com
manding lead over their division, 
usually one of more than 10 
games, its hard to imagine them 
being knocked out of the NL East
playoff seat. On the other side of 
the division is a certainNewYork 
team that has a won-lost record 
lower than John Oleruds batting 
average.
The Mets dont have enough 
games left in the season to dig 
themselves out of the basement. 
I dont understand how any one 
team could perform so pitifully 
twice! They could come very close 
to their own record for the worst 
season in baseball, which they 
setinl962. Granted, the Rockies 
record isnt that much better, but 
theyre still trying to get their 
gloves broken in. Give them a 
year or so.
Maybe desperation for public
ity was the driving force behind 
ex-Met Vince The Mad Bomber 
Colemans little explosive spree. 
Coleman allegedly threw an M100  the equivalent of a quarter-stick of dynamite  from a 
jeep driven by Dodger Eric Davis 
into a crowd outside Dodger Sta
dium on July 24, injuring a 
woman and two children.
If found guilty, Coleman is fac
ing up to three years on a felony 
charge of unlawful possession of
an explosive device. Since he says 
that he will not contest any 
charges brought against him, he 
just might end up playing the 
next few seasons for the State 
Pen. I guess a felony wasnt all 
that far off, though, for someone 
who stole as many bases as he 
did.
From stealing to trading  
Montreal Expos pitcher Dennis 
Martinez turned down a trade to 
the Braves last Thursday. 
Martinez was set to be traded to 
Atlanta, supposedly for Braves 
AAA first basemanBrianHunter. 
Martinez apparently wasnt too 
keen on being the number five 
pitcher in what could arguably be 
the best rotation in history. He 
needs only four more wins to be 
the seventh player in history to 
get 100 or more wins in both 
leagues, and would have most 
likely only received two more 
starts this year had he gone to 
the Braves.
Thats pretty shaky reasoning 
for not going to a team with a 
good shot at the pennant and 
missing a shot at pitching in the 
World Series.
Finally, Jim Leyland was sus-^ 
pended last Friday for six games 
for starting a brawl in last 
Tuesdays game against the Dodg
ers.
Leyland charged Dodgers 
starter Kevin Gross after Pirates 
starting pitcher Bob Walk was 
thrown out for hitting Gross, who 
hit Pirate Kevin Young. The 
benches were cleared for a nice, 
blood-warming pile-on.
Even though I enjoy a good fight 
as much as the next guy  it is 
almost as nice a surprise as get-; 
ting a warm hot dog at the; 
ballparkI hate to see baseball 
degraded to that level. Still, see-! 
mg its manager go all out to take 
care of his team like that reallydoes boost the teams spirit.
It is rather reminiscent of how 
the Orioles 20-some-odd minute; 
fight with the Mariners, and! 
Johnny Oates part in it helped; 
turn the Os out of their slump at! 
the time. Even though I hate to! 
admit it, they seem to have once! 
more found time for another fight!
Andy Glendinning is a sopho
more C1T major.
World He sparrr
Just kidding. The women's team prepares for the upcoming season. A preview 
of their team, and the men's squad will be In the next Issue of the Tartan. 
Watch for It.
Photos by Jennifer Urao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Members of the womens soccer team practicing for the upcoming season.
TARTAN FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
DateOpponentTime
Sept. 4FRANKLIN & MARSHALL COLLEGE1:30 pm
Sept. 11WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (Mo.)1:30 pm
Sept. 18University of Rochester1:00 pm
Sept. 25Juniata College1:30 pm
Oct. 2ALLEGHENY COLLEGE (Homecoming)2:00 pm
Oct. 9TRINITY UNIVERSITY (Tex.)1:30 pm
Oct. 16University of Chicago1:30 pm
Oct. 23Open Date
Oct. 30Grove City. College1:30 pm
Nov. 6CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY7:00 pm
Nov. 13CASE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY1:30 pm
WOMENS VOT.T.KYRAT,I,SCHEDULE
DateOpponents)Time
Sept. 7Waynesburg College6:30 pm
Sept. 10-11CARNEGIE MELLON INVITATIONAL5:00 pm &
Carlow, Geneva, Mercyhurst, Point Park, St. 
Marys, Denison, and Seton Hill
9:00 am
Sept. 14UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH-JOHNSTOWN7:00 pm
Sept. 17-18River City TournamentTBA
(at Marietta College)6:00 pmSept. 21Grove City College
(with Baldwin-Wallace College)
1:00 pm &Sept. 25-27UAA ROUND-ROBIN TOURNAMENT
9:00 am
Sept. 28CARLOW COLLEGE6:00 pm
Oct. 2The College of Wooster1:00 pm
Oct. 12Chatham College6:00 pm
(with University of Steubenville)6:00 pmOct. 14BETHANY COLLEGE
Oct. 15-16Western Maryland College ToumamentTBA
Oct. 21WASHINGTON & JEFFERSON COLLEGE7:00 pm
Oct. 23Carlow CollegeNoon
(with Bethany College)7:00 pmOct. 26Bethany College
Oct. 29-31University Athletic Association Championships 
(at University of Rochester)
TBA

---------------------------------------------------

AKT. 
With You 
Every Step 
of the Way.
Campus Residents Enjoy:
 No Sign-Up Fees
 Individual Bills
 Low Rates
 International Dialing
It's all part of the i plan.
Call 800-445-6063 for more info. ART

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 88, Issue 1 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 30 August 1993Campus welcomes Class of 97
Orientation 93 staff work toward student unity, campus awareness, good times
By JULIA LASALLE
[ferian Junior Staff
bonded ... the best staff ever. the class to geek. It 
Dean of Student Affairs was a spectacular 
Michael Murphy said,This level show . . . And in 
OnAugustl7,CamegieMellon of student involvement has been keeping with the 
welcomedtheClassofl997.This good and is something that we Orientation spirit, 
new class brings diversity, char- will continue to grow in the fu- support, friendship, 
acter, and (as demonstrated at tnre.Laferwillberetumingnext and class pride were 
Playfair) the ability to make a year for Orientation as the Assis- shown through 
grand entrance. The Orientation tant Director. many, many standstaff was there ing ovations. 
Through 
a series 
of orientation 
events 
and par
ties the 
fresh
men re
ally got 
to know 
each
to welcome students 
and provide activi
ties and functions 
fcr them through
out the week.
It was a time to 
forge friendships 
and to build commu
nity unity, said 
,m man-uelle 
Lafer, head counse
lor. This is obvious 
to anyone who 
heard the 97 and Schlag 
Chants echoing out of the Orien[Orientation is] a time to forge 
friendships and build community 
unity."
 Emanuelle Lafer, 
Orientation head counselor
The talent show was really the other. It was a way to
perfect illustration of the meet people  both
ion tent duringthe talent show, comraderie which was shared freshmen and upperThis years Orientation was the throughout the week. People were classmen, saidTrina
first ever to be entirely student comfortable enough with the rest Baneerjee,dramamaof the class to share their talents 
- which were amazing. People 
sang, playedmusic, wrote music, 
wrote poetry, made jokes, juggled, 
and even introduced the rest of
run. The staff was hired last Sep
tember and has worked together 
iver since  sometimes putting 
up to 50 hours a week. Lafer 
describes the group as totally
jor. Many people who 
may have never oth
erwise met, found each 
other on the Gesling 
football field during Playfair under the I> supplied fun for freshmen
Michael Harris/ Tartan Business ManagerThat wacky Class of '97: they were irrepressible at Playfair.
Adjusting to CMU campus life 
challenges new foreign students
Playfair or the 
Wacky Olympics. 
People from differ
ent backgrounds 
with different ma
jors and few com
mon interests 
were dancing or 
racing, and always 
laughing together. 
Literally everyone 
was eventually in
troduced. In fact, 
the most common
com- _______
plaint 
among 
the students 
was that 
it was too 
hard to 
remem
ber every
body  s 
name.
The ----------
freshmen 
attended 
video dance par
ties, aerobics 
classes, and helped 
to build (and eat) 
the biggest banana 
split. On Saturday, 
August 21, the class 
was even given the 
chance to do some 
community service 
work. For enter
tainment there were movies, like 
Aladdin and Ferris Buellers Day 
Off. Mark Eddie, singer, Craig 
Karges, hypnotist, and Denny 
Dent, artist, all preformed and 
were well received.
It was not all just fun and 
games, though. Lectures, tours, 
and meetings with the associate 
deans were also part of the sched
uled events.
There was time to further ex
plore each chosen major and to 
ask any questions. Guidance and
micnatti narri/ icuiaii Business manager
entire week of adjustment rather 
than just one or two days. This is 
a factor which Murphy believes 
is essential.
Some students, however, 
thought that it was just a bit too 
long. Diane Tanios, an architect 
major, for example, said she was 
worn out by the end of the week,  
and also noted that many peers 
stopped following the freshmen 
schedule. By the end of the week, 
attendance had dropped off, but 
that didnt worry the organizers. 
__________________ "It is OK
This level of student involve
ment has been good and it is 
something we will continue to 
grow on."
 Michael Murphy, 
dean of Student Affairs
instruction was offered in every
thing throughout the week. Dis
cussions andlectures ranged from 
Lets Talk about Sex, to Help 
for the Less Decided Majors and 
TimeManagement. Orientation 
is about beginnings. Itintroduced 
the freshmen to college life and 
provided the structure needed to 
make the transitions easier. Un
like many colleges, ours offers an
I that people 
stop going 
tothestruct u r e d 
events, be
cause it 
means that 
they are 
! comfortable 
Ion their 
own, Lafer 
Says.
It is best 
that they do 
not need to be surrounded by only 
other freshmen. Still, Orienta
tion roots reach far. In the past, 
some orientation groups have set 
up bulletin boards, held monthly 
meetings, and gathered for fall 
re-unions.
This years Orientation staff 
worked hard to provide the stu
dents with a year-long tie to the 
community.
|y MICKIKOCHANSKYJ
'w'tan Staffwriter
Welcome back to campus. 
Many of you freshmen have just 
come here from high school and 
fare experiencing college life for 
the first time. Others are experiencingjnuch more. For them, not 
only is the academic environment 
new, but so is the country. In case 
you hadnt noticed, Carnegie 
ellon is host to a large number 
foreign students, many of whom 
are having to cope with culture 
shock on top of everything else.
Im a foreign student myself. 
OK, Im from England, and that 
Bay not seem all that foreign, 
out in the college environment, it 
is. For a start, if I was in England, 
I wouldnt be in college. Actually, 
I Wouldnt even have the chance 
to be in college at all. In England, 
there are only University places
for 10 percent of the population. 
Since those same Universities set 
and grade the high school exams, 
they simply give the top 10 per
cent As and its tough luck for 
everyone else.
In England, you spend your 
entire school career with people 
bom the same year as you. There 
are no grades. If, like me, you 
happen to belong to a peer group 
whose birth rate was particularly 
high that year, there is even less 
chance of you getting into a Uni
versity. And if you fail your one 
chance to take the exam, thats it. 
You can kiss your chances of get
ting a degree goodbye. You can
not go back to school, you cannot 
start again.
At CMU, you are encouraged to 
diversify, shop around, and take 
classes in fields you might other
wise not have taken, just to see 
what theyre like. This is great
advice; most people I know have 
changed their majors a number 
of times. In England, the subject 
you want to get a degree in is the 
only one you will ever study. And 
you will have to have had this 
degree in mind from the age of 13, 
in order to take the right exams.
For students from other coun
tries, however, the obstacles in 
the path of a college degree may 
be more profound. Perhaps their 
country is not able to fund higher 
education. Perhaps they have dis
criminatory policies which bar 
promising students. Perhaps they 
are at war. For these students, 
the chance to get an American 
education is the chance of a life
time, andis accomplished at great 
personal cost (and Im not even 
talking about tuition!)
As you settle into campus life, 
either for the first or last time, it 
Please see FOREIGN, page 13
Freshmen share initial opinions, 
impressions of college life
By LAURA McCLURE
Tartan Calendar Editor
Think backway back  to the first time you 
set foot on this campus as a bona fide CMU 
freshman. In the jumble of Orientation, you threw 
yourself into college life 
with 1100 people you had 
never seen before, many 
with beliefs and back
grounds totally foreign to 
your nature. As a class, 
you came here for many 
different reasons: to be 
close to home or as far 
from it as possible, to be 
an engineer, a successful 
business manager, or just
"/ came in expecting to 
meet Leo, and instead, 
Jeremy introduces him
self
 Tom Gilbert, freshman
also shared the same hopes and concerns for the 
year to come about classes, making friends, and 
the Freshman 15. As a class, you shared a uni
versal bond, a belief in yourselves as a group that 
you could make an impact. Years from now, the 
strength of that conviction will carry you through 
both promotions and per
formances, and when you 
come full circle at a class 
reunion, you will be able 
to say that together you 
have created something 
meaningful.
Now its the Class of 
97s turn to prove them
selves, and as the larg
est class CMU has ever 
seen, they have been
famous. Maybe it was the male/female ratio or given both a unique opportunity and disadvanbecause you skipped the page on ratios in tage. Classes were larger than I expected, says 
Petersons Guide to Colleges. freshman psychology major Arthur Joe. For
Regardless of your individual differences, you Please see FRESHMAN, page L3

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  30 August 1993
Columnist watches ancient reruns, flips fries
Neurotic Living
Pl gSvTI; pMTay.I
I will admit to feeling a certain 
nostalgia for the days when I 
would start school, after an im
possibly short summer, and the 
teacher would ask that inevitable 
question  what did you do this 
summer? It was a time of inno
cence, change, and adventure.
Also, it was a time of lies. I doubt 
any one ever told the real truth of 
their summer breakalmost as 
if there was some law that re
quired people to not describe 
whole summers. What kids, and 
most adults for that matter, do is 
pick out the interesting part and 
tell it. Lets face it, the interest
ing part usually consists of a time 
period anywhere from one hour 
to one week. Thus, no one was 
exposed to the mind-numbing 
regularity of three months that 
seemed like three years. Person
ally, I always left out the part 
about watching every conceivable
rerun of Father Knows Best ... 
twice.
All of that has changed now. I 
feel that if someone is stupid 
enough to ask the question, they 
should get in perfect detail how 
awful my summer was. And I do 
not mean a general overview  I 
give minute by minute details. I 
want them to have a holistic ex
perience ofwhat my summer was 
like. This is the way a fantasy 
retelling would start: Well, after 
my last final, I walked around 
and realized I didnt have a job 
for the summer yet. I sat and 
thought about it. Then I got up
and got a Coke from the vending 
machine.... I think you get the 
idea. Also, I would prefer it if they 
were in a locked room with me 
that only I had the key to.
I know that some of you are 
thinking that I certainly am bit
ter, cynical, and disgusted. The 
only way to answer that is to say 
that why, yes, yes, I am. The 
problem is that people have 
started breaking the rules that I 
thought were universal. I must 
have made the mistake of believ
ing that it was a law that would 
last forever. Im trying to break 
this to you gently ... it hasnt.
The first person I asked how 
their summer was spent his time 
gallivanting around Europe. Not 
a care in the world, just touring 
the continent. And this was be
fore I had figured out how to 
exact revenge by describing my 
summer in minute detail. I felt 
impotent  no snide remarks 
please  he had an experience 
that he will be able to recount to 
his grandchildren and leave them 
clamoring for more. My grand
children will fear seeing me be
cause they absolutely do not want 
to hear about how I worked 90 
hours a week, in 110 degree heat
covered in a coating of peanut oil.
Fortunately, I believe thai 
karma stepped in to balance out 
the universal function. Please 
understand that I wish no ill wil! 
on anyone. However, the person 
who spent his summer expert 
encing beauty and romance was 
in a horrible bicycle accident the 
day after he described his trip. 1| 
it was karma and fate that did 
that, the rest of my life is going to 
be strawberries and chocolate.
Andrew Sproule, Tartan forum 
editor, is considering switching 
his major to french fry flipping - 
then he won't have to intern.Not the size of door which counts, but what is behind it
Askew and No Shoes
Pl LommsI; LIffSIT
Picture if you will, a sterile lifeless 
hallway. And within that hallway a door
  a full length, three-hinged, deadbolted door, only 10 inches wide. (The 
effect can be simulated by placing your 
face against the edge of a door frame, 
thereby simultaneously altering your 
perspective and holding the wall up. Be 
careful of people opening it, though.) 
One wonders what the purpose of this 
bizarre mutant may be and what could 
be behind it. Overactive curiosity and 
the fact that the door, science aside, does 
look rather cute, sent me on a quest to 
reveal to all whatever did lie hidden 
behind.
The Physical Plant main office quickly
transferred me to their Carpentry Divi
sion. Carpentry had never even heard of 
ten inch wide doors and seemed to think 
it all a mirage. They told me to speak to 
the UCC Building administration and 
to lay off the hallucinogens.
The UCC people were both friendly 
and helpful. Each administrator I spoke 
to knew exactly whom to ferry me to 
next. Unfortunately, I got lost some
where in transit and never was able to 
pick up the thread again. They advised 
speaking to ABM (Housekeeping), but 
didnt explain how.
Naturally, I called the ever-useful, all 
knowing Skibo Information Desk. All 
they had to say was,Youve reached the 
Skibo Information Desk. Please call back 
during normal business hours between
9 am and midnight...  It was 4:45 pm.
Around midnight I wandered into UCC 
hoping to catch the door open. The ABM 
employees working there had never seen 
the door opened, nor were aware of why 
it existed. They suggested Security.
Security seemed a little puzzled at 
such a request from a barefoot colum
nist but said if such a door were not just 
an apparition the administrationofUCC 
should be able to open it.
I sensed a conspiracy among anyone 
who could possibly know. Given the op
tions before me I took the obvious choice
 ask people who shouldnt have any 
idea. This proved much more useful.
I dragged a rather bored Kappa Sig 
pledge from the fence and he told me he 
thought the door was actually a trap for 
troublesome people. Allegedly, there is a 
camera filming everyone who tampers 
with the door.
Amongst those populating the Quad 
in the early momingthere was a general 
apathy and refusal to admit that the 
door existed. Most of the campus seemed 
to be in some state of denial.
A nondescript group of people of vary
ing heights suggested that all the tu
ition money went behind the door. Real
izing that the door was far too narrow to 
hold all the tuition fees CMU requires, 
the group elaborated that it was actu
ally a lurking, U.S. currency eatingbeast 
behind the door. They also suggested
Michael Flores/Tartan Photographer Skinny-door mystery remains unsolved.
that Elvis may well be on the other side 
though they seemed unsure as to whether 
he and the beast were one and the same.
The Pittsburgh Police, happy for ar 
excuse to use their intercom, can be 
quoted as saying,You in the green  
get out of the street. Steven Dunlap, 
sophomore drama major, said,I wan! 
my name in the paper, but never got 
decided what was behind the door.
Other answers were that it is a bowl 
ing ball (the actual door), it holds small 
nuclear devices, it is a door-storage closet, 
it holds golf clubs, it was left too long it 
the dryer, it is the Undergraduate 
Lounge, and it acts as a postal service 
buffer (storing mail in order to create 
the necessary delay).
Perhaps the most probable of all an
swers, expressing all you need to know, 
is the one I received last. Namely, that 
behind the exceptionally narrow door is 
simply an exceptionally narrow room.
Matthew Messner is a freshman CI1 
major who'd better watch where he's 
stepping.
plagued by dreadedOrientation 93 bad luck curseColumnist
Horror Stories
Pl daA RoTMIT
Im Tom Harper, and I have 
this incredible run of bad luck 
that has been going on for almost 
nine years, and it chose to rear its 
ugly head once again during Ori
entation 93.
This is not to lambast those 
who put their time and effort into 
bringing us incoming freshmen 
the extravaganza that was Ori
entation 93. I appreciate them 
for it and assuredly the Class of 
97 appreciates them for it as well. 
But, man, Orientation 93 started
on Cloud Nine and ended up 
crashing into the Ninth Circle of 
Hell.
Things Go Wrong From 
The Very Beginning 
I used to be one of those people 
that took procrastination to an 
art form. When I went through 
Army Basic at Fort Jackson, 
South Carolina, I gave up pro
crastination cold turkey.
Thats why I made my mother 
wake up at 6 am in order to get 
down to CMU so I could beat the 
traffic and the lines. I live in 
Westmoreland County, about half 
an hour from campus when 
theres no traffic.
We left around a quarter till 7, 
the car jam-packed with all sorts 
of goodies I was taking with me. 
I swear the car was only three 
inches off the ground.
I thought, Yep. Im gonna beat
the traffic and the lines.
But... I didnt beat either. 
There was bad traffic, some
thing that living in the area and 
going in and out of Pittsburgh my 
entire life has made me used to.
There was an accident near the 
Squirrel Hill Tunnel and that cost 
us a good 45 minutes. It was 
bumper-to-bumper all the way to 
Penn Hills.
I then thought, Nope. Aint no 
way Im going to beat the lines. 
Of course, I was right.
I stepped into Skibo and I swear 
85 percent of the entire freshman 
class was standing in one gigan
tic line that snaked all the way 
through the place.
After getting my Orientation 
nametag that kept falling off in 
the 99.9 percent humidity, I plod
ded back to the end of the incred
ibly long line. At least my mili
tary training conditioned me for 
stuff like this.
After getting my ID card and 
room key it was time to move all 
of the stuff from the car to my 
room. I live on the second floor of 
Donner, and' the only parking 
space my mom could find was on 
Tech Street. At least it was sort of 
close. After lugging all my good
ies (which consisted of a TV, re
frigerator, Super Nintendo, and 
a plethora of clothes) into my 
room through the stagnant, 99.9 
percent humidity, I crashed onto 
the bed.
The fun had just begun.
Just As Its Interesting ...
Since I was a sophomore in high 
school I've been having occasional 
nosebleeds. Despite the hoard of 
absolutely useless information 
stored in my brain I have no idea 
why these nosebleeds suddenly
occurduringthe absolute WORST 
moments possible. During Basic 
I had one in the middle of a fivemile road march.
During Orientation, I had one 
right in the middle of Lets Talk 
About Sex.
It was at the end of the Captain 
Condom sketch. I felt that weird 
tingly sensation in my nose when
ever I get a nosebleed. I thought, 
Why now?
My legs had fallen asleep from 
sitting cross-legged on the floor 
for about an hour, and I tilted my 
head back, and along with a nose 
thats a running faucet for blood 
on occasion, that adds up to one 
incredibly embarrassingposition.
And, of course, no one around 
me had a Kleenex or a hand
kerchief.
So, there I was, sitting with my 
hands full of blood in a room of
about 1200 people.
Then Anita Barkin told every
one to stand up. I tried really' 
hard to. You know how hard it is 
to stand up when both of youi 
legs have fallen asleep.
Remember, my hands were 
busy trying to keep blood off the 
Ballroom floor.
Then I made a beeline for the 
restroom, muttering Excuse me 
... Pardon me... Nosebleed... Bad 
one ... Youre right, I dont need 
any help, Im just dying here ... 
Excuse me ... Pardon me...
I was feeling nauseous when I 
finally made it to the restroom. A 
counselor came in to find out how 
I was. I told him I had just do
nated a pint of blood through mj 
nose, but other than that every
thing was just dandy.
After the nosebleed subsided, I 
Please see HORROR, page L3
They say the grass is greener on the other side. 
The cost of a college education gets greener every year.
College tuition costs seem to be 
getting udderly out of control.
The Air Force ROTC might be 
able to help pay for tuition, 
books, and related fees. We have scholar
ships that can pay for up to three years of 
these college expenses. We have a 
scholarship program for virtually any 
major. If youre a minority or major
ing in nursing, pharmacy, physical 
therapy, environmental (civil) engi
neering, or computer science/engi
neering; we could get you an ex
press scholarship-/?ossibly within 
three weeks! If you re a sophomore, 
no matter what your major, you could 
be awarded a scholarship worth up to
$5,800 starting next fall. Holy cow, we 
also have two and three year scholar
ships in many other majors including 
engineering, science and math. Even 
though you might be mooved by our scholarship 
opportunities, Air Force ROTC has much more 
than $ to offer. That's no bull, we participate 
in numerous activities on and off campuseverything from trips to Washington, DC 
to jumping over the moon on an Air 
Force jet. Youll also have a lot of green 
to graze on after college, with a starting 
salary over $23,000 increasing to over 
$43,000 after four years. Dont be milked 
by all those student loans, give the Air 
Force ROTC a call at 268-5184.
T

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  30 August 1993L3
History professor publishes book
By TANYA RADO
Tartan Copy Staff
Members of the Social Democratic 
Party (SPD), despite their many 
strengths, failed to save democracy and 
prevent the Nazi threat to the Weimar 
Republic in 1933. The Nazis were the 
first to break this large democratic ap
peal. Unfortunately, the Democratic 
Society was faced with a dilemma to try 
to either appeal to all parties or to ex
tend support to all workers as strictly a 
workers party  the reason the re
public established itself.
Donna Harsch, assistant professor of 
history, analyzes Germanys largest po
litical party and argues that the partys 
internal dynamics immobilized the 
SPD. In her book, German Social De
mocracy and theRise of Nazism, Harsch 
said, The German Social Democratic 
Party was an effort to prevent the rise of 
a slave society in the 1920s and 1930s to 
save the Weimar Republic. In her book
croached upon the partys reaction to 
economic calamity, parliamentary cri
sis, and the Nazis. In addition, Harsch 
inspects regional SPD newspapers, Com
munist reports on the party, and other
"The German Social Democratic Party was 
an effort to prevent the rise of a slave soci
eties in the 1920s and 1930s to save the 
Weimer Republic."
 Donna Harsch, assoc, history professor
she examines the Social Democratic sources to draw parallels between politiPartys ideology, structure, and political cal and organizational connections with 
culture and explains how each en- the SPD. Harsch also takes into consid
eration the interplay between the SPD 
and its special organizations  espe
cially the Socialist trade unions and the 
republican defense league.
Harsch also gives credence to the idea 
that the party reacted ineffectively at 
least in part because they misunder
stood the nature of the threat, conclud
ing that the lethargy and conservatism 
thwarted the SPD.
Harsch features innovative ideas of 
many Social Democrats to highlight the 
republics weak points including actions 
to revise the organization of the party, 
reconsider Marxism, and aid the middle 
classes.
The pending competition surrounding 
these proposals further hampered re
sponses that may have possibly sup
pressed Nazism.
College life brings change 
to foreign first-years
FOREIGN, from page LI
is easy to become complacent about the facilities and opportuni
ties here at CMU. Soon, the food, the politics, and the homework 
will become too much, and it is all too easy to complain. Thats 
only fair.
If you are having a hard time figuring out what some of that 
Highlander food is, you can bet your foreign friends are twice as 
perplexed! Imagine following a conversation about the football 
team if you havent the first clue what football is. And what about 
following a lecture in a language you just learned? Im still
I'm still coming across a lan
guage barrier, such as it is, af
ter four years.
coming across the language barrier, such as it is, after four years.
I use expressions no one knows, and refer to common objects with 
embarrassing consequences. Erasers are called rubbers in En
in many ways, a college campus is like summer camp. Its a 
place where you make friends that last a lifetime. Its a place to 
meet and learn about people you would never come across in your 
hometown.
People from other places, even other states, like to talk about 
where theyre from; take the time to listen. Youll learn more 
about their part of the world, and you may even make someone 
feel more at home in yours.
Four first-year students comment 
on trials, tribulations of college
FRESHMAN, from page U.
freshmen Chuck Bietrix, CS major, Tom Gil
bert, MSE major 
and Erin Patten, 
drama major other 
aspects of campus 
life were unex
pected as well.
The students 
have a much differ
ent attitude here 
than in high school, 
people are here be
cause they want to 
be here.
My roommate 
changed atthe last 
moment. I came in 
expecting to meet 
Leo and instead,
Jeremy introduces 
himself,says Gil
bert.
Says Patten, My 
schedule was all 
messed up when I 
got here, but I got it 
straightened out.
All four freshmen 
seemed to agr Chuck Bietrix 
that classes were fairly easy so far. My biggest 
concern is that I wont be able to fit everything 
in, says Joe. Patten agrees, Im wondering how
bad its going to be time-wise. Ive heard 
that dramats dont have time for any
thing.
Along with 
Orientation, the 
Activities Fair 
was another 
thing all four 
participated in. 
When asked to 
comment on 
Orientation, 
Bietrix said, No 
matter how stu
pid the Name 
Game was,itreally worked. 
The four seem 
to have a good 
handle on the 
basic concerns 
and everyday 
dilemmas in
volved in being 
a first-year stu
dent here at 
CMU. To sum 
up their experi
ence in the 
words ofBietrix,
Stats prof 
wins NSF 
award
BY LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Features Editor
Over the summer, associate pro
fessor of statistics, Larry 
Wasserman, was the recipient ofthe 
Young Investigators Award  a re
search grant from the National Sci
ence Foundation which is aimed at 
helping scholars with promising re
search careers to complete their 
PhDs.
Only five of these grants were 
awarded nationally in the math
ematical sciences category.
Wasserman submitted his pro
posal over a year ago, which de
scribed his previous work, future 
research plans, his teachingand Uni
versity activities, and included three 
letters of reference from the top re
searchers in his field.
He plans to use his grant to fur
ther his knowledge and practice of 
Bayesian infants, a system of data 
analysis using probability theory, to 
develop and apply new theories and 
practices the statistics field.
The endowmentwill also help him 
to fund research expenditures such 
as computing, traveling to confer
ences, visiting other colleagues in 
his field, as well as bring those col
leagues here to speak.
I feel pretty fortunate to have 
won this honor. It will greatly ad
vance my research in this field, he 
says.
Wasserman, who came to Carnegie 
Mellon in 1990 on a Canadian postdoctorial fellowship, graduated from 
Toronto Unversity in Canada in
1988.
Arthur Joe
So far so good.
This is part one of a series of updates on 
these freshmen.Clippership, meal plan nightmare for columnist
HORROR, from page 2
staggered my way back to my 
room and crashed onto the bed 
again.
Well, not actually.
I missed.
At least I didnt hit the floor 
nose-first.
Chee-tos and Kool-Aid
What exactly causes a whole 
computer system to go down? 
For some reason my ID card 
wouldnt work in either the door 
in Donner or the register at High
lander. Alittle message came up 
on the display -Not Auth. That 
didnt look so good. Miraculously 
I was allowed to eat there any
way.
I tried to figure out ho w the hell 
I had paid over $2000 for a meal 
plan when the display said Not 
Auth.
I was wandering around Skibo 
for a good hour trying to find 
Dining Services and rudely in
terrupted every activity down 
there trying to find out where on 
Gods green earth Dining Ser
vices was. I ran into some guy in 
a gray suit telling me that why 
Not Auth. showed up was be
cause the whole system was 
down.
Well, then cheer it up!
I figured I had better get used 
to surviving on a steady diet of 
snack foods I had brought with 
me. For the next three days I had 
nothing but Chee-tos and cherry 
Kool-Aid three times a day.
The Clippership Disaster 
I actually thought I would meet 
nice people of the opposite sex on 
the Clippership cruise. Everyone 
said that it would be the biggest
blast of Orientation.
How naive I was.
I spent three solid hours find
ing new places on the ship to 
sulk. Did you ever have that feel
ing that everyone is talking to 
everybody else and youre not 
welcome?
I get that feeling all the time.
I went all over that ship. Top 
deck, middle deck, bottom deck, 
by the door that said No Admit
tance, the railing, everywhere 
except the ladies room.
I watched as when we went 
under the bridges, everybody 
stared at the smokestacks to see 
if they would not quite clear the 
bottom of the bridge. Time and 
time again, the crowd was disap
pointed.
All Bad Things Must End
My first day of classes went
rather smoothly compared to 
Orientation. I only locked myself 
out of my room once. My ID card 
works now.
Also, if anyoneout there wishes 
to tell me of their own Orienta
tion 93 horror stories  fresh
men, upperclassmen, counselors, 
RAs, Desk Staff, faculty, etc.  
you are more than welcome to do 
so.
Send me email, or you can walk 
up to me and tell me all about it. 
The more details and embarrass
ment, the better.
Remember, Im the guy with 
the black cowboy hat. The best of 
the worst times will hopefully 
find their way into the next issue 
of The Tartan.
Tom Harper is a freshman who 
is still a little seasick from the 
Clippership Cruise. He plans to
be the next poster boy for both the 
Chee-tos and Kool-Aid corpora
tions someday, as well as market
ing a new line of black cowboy 
hats.
Unitedway
the 6
$9.75
$11.50 for a wash and cut with this coupon
a in mens hairstyling
for just 
a cut 
every day 
p a? - C nrico s
682-3738
119 Meyran Ave (Oakland) Between Forbes & Fifth Mon-Sat 8:15-4:30
CD TRADER
...the small store with the big selection
I PRESENT THIS AD IN  
I SEPTEMBER FOR A I
Mos t repcdlaiM
NEW AND USED CD'S: 
BUY, SELL, TRADE 
UNIQUE TRADE-IN 
POLICY!!!
201 South Craig Street, Oakland
5 minute walk from CMU or Pitt
Open 10 am - 6 pm (412) 687-6626 50 music categories...Alternative to Zydeco
hicfow
(A BAKERY AND RESTAURANT^
Bigger, Better Bagels... 
...Naturally!
Schwartz's Bagels are made with all natural 
ingredients and baked fresh all day!
Our dough is never frozen. A Schwartz's bagel 
contains no fats, white sugars, or preservatives.
3615 Forbes Ave., Oakland
682-2558
Mon-Fri, 7om-7pm, Sat 7:30am- 4pm, Sun 8am- 4pm
Bring this ad in and receive 
3 FREE bagels with the purchase of a dozen!
V$
(16 huge Is in all!)expires J30/Q4
W AIRFARES 
EUROPE 
& ASIA
Special Student and Faculty Airfares 
Scheduled Major Airlines - No Charters 
50 U.S. Departure Cities 
75 Foreign Destinations 
International Student Exchange ID Cards 
International Faculty ID Cards 
International Youth Hostel Handbooks 
Eurail and Britrail Passes 
Let's Go Europe Guides 
American Express Travelers Cheques 
Groups or Individuals
ASK ABOUT OUR EXPRESS ID CARD SERVICE 
"SERVING STUDENTS SINCE 19S8"
For your FREE Student Flight Catalog mall this coupon to: 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT EXCHANGE FUGHTS, INC.
5010 E. Shea Blvd., Suite A -104Scottsdale, AZ 85254 USA or Call: 8H _ _(602)951-1700 cards---------------------------------------------------

(( iaIouU ^<jlV0 
yoo ht'rnself, 
.rWcfehks ^e 
y, uh, preparing
Welcome. back, for 
txnorf-W eicti+ioq /eo.r 
of WUs Ot WmJ.ell'? 
sgomic Strip fc00[es. y
w^Ve <j0tsme \ 
BigPkns ferlViis |ear's su-if.-- ti'fci 
(offfs, w<e plwtS, <Jto>r*hot... 
atfefw-te st sec,Ma rtint nesBlomnat MfdT
Vjtof-rfie wwVMenirthansSt-re 
1W Ucniell w/ll e uf <iii fnnirto 
by neirf- ue-ek. Aiterai!, bovJ
fong Ou\M\is Sort ef tfei/lmpvb.3 jOv;pM wIpHLTSOrpT6R6
XW<J ueli 
betfen
IfWAS THE ULTIMATE FRISBEE
This Week's Fortune:BIG COMICS FOR BIG SPASTI
Whats a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
''fkt<JL tuft ft** Tft+tS... <W 
Mgi <Kft +We Can/belli
a rt 4-Ki> II...
W^ENWE LAST LfcfT ttMrWtfffcfive sPtshsr nn, unite
, twat AN MM DiWt&lN unu- HatNIS----------------------?----s-*MiriNi OowMon*. "MKrwNlU. 
PlAMT IN 1
t>Mt NWS WWfMnee I* MlUtR-f FAUt.P*. pw. fc*yXM>) ww 
invi* m*6 Than A,
ON THE FAtfc Of H
Miufrs fAUS STAH-AH>tOfrW.
gwr Deuftl th RnCR. <m -rugi criy 0>op. 
-sf,>> TH DiM^PeD tuCfA 0M8. 
ML oC-tHlNt> To imr EFFECT..
..it's a. Soeip <^*4
Uou.ltV + Mfciitf
SOME WottttfD To exptoir rr. ..| _.--------------------------
Ipt's Go! / WAVT A Hi-PotHT CAfCAK H/\)' nue-"tel;- c*** Betty up: Panic ewstiesf/'/
t-0
*lii 
gpi# 
Jf Wt 
n^rWm 
/ /J'
^ ^ s
)P&_A
a ^Ty^^rjj
j , 1 I -ruoe^^l
<r^Tpr I ite &TFfwc-ncnJ

---------------------------------------------------

Killer Bw-y
HS NAME1S HLLER 
BUNNTAND HE 1S THE 
HEROOFTHSCOMC.HECANTRY.HEDOESNT 
HAVE RETRACTABLE 
ADAMANT1UM CLAWS. BUT 
HE IS GOOD AT SHOOTING.
Dexter T. Kobnyoshi
UNFORTUNATELY. HE
S=v yFRAANRAKMI
-- Pl v~\a OAm easSWlaIT VAUAnT HERO. KANQUJc?nfcK DO MUCH OF ANYTHING. 0p EVIL.PROTECTOR OF THE
WIMPY, EATER OFCARROTS- ^ ALS0 HAPPENS TO
BE PRONE TO MOTION 
SICKNESS.
BY O.B. TRUDEAU
Current, controversial, 
irreverent and amusing, 
Trudeau never misses 
his mark.
DOONESBURY Beginning 9-7-93
THE FAR SIDE
Gary Larsons genius is 
manifested daily in THE FAR 
SIDE.
Join the masses magnetized 
by his offbeat, way-out and 
unmatched brilliance.
Beginning____: .
UF tu
llear ye! 
Dear ye!
i)eaicby
WomeM
Wanted!
Research
Scudy
(Dust be becweew tbe a^es op i8 awd 35.
Research Study lwciudes cbe evaluation op 
two consecutive Normal menstrual cycles,
CoropeNsaciow por quaiipied 
participants: $200.00
Por more iMporroatioN, please call: 
CDajjee Womens hospital 
eparcmeNc op Obstetrics, ywecology, 
asid Reproductive ScieNces 
at c 412 )
Vo/YiWoK
CHINESE RESTAURANT
Voted
Best Lunch Value 
Fast Lunch
by City Pittsburgh Paper, the BEST of Pittsburgh 1992
Dine In, Carry-Out, and Catering
Oakland 
400 Craig Street
(Near Cathedral of Learning) 
687-7777 
FAX: 681-3333 
Mon-Sun, 11 am- 10pm 
Carryout Parking all Horns.
Free Parking after 5 pm and Weekends.
Downtown 
124 Sixth Street
(Near Heinz Hall)
765-2222 
FAX: 681-3333 
Mcsn-Sun, 11 am- 8 pm 
Parking Garage Available Above Restaurant
9r*r*oir7-n*A8in(p I9FCHEL3 3vov fcbbVi.l-0

---------------------------------------------------

DALM0 "tic*
THE CLEAR CHOICE
A NEW DISCOUNT FOR CMCI STUDENTS. FACULTY & STAFF
THE 23-CHECKPOINT EYE EXAM:
OUR COMPUTERIZED EYE EXAM PROVIDES A DETAILED OPTOMETRIC PROFILE. THE RESULT...CONFIDENCE IN VISION FOR YOQ.
THE NEW VISION - IN FRAMES AND CONTACTS:
SELECTION. IT'S THE FIRST THING THAT MEETS THE EYE AT EVERY 
DALMO OPTICAL CENTER. FROM BOLD COLORS AND SOPHISTICATED 
PROFILES IN FRAMES TO EXTENDED WEAR. GAS PERMEABLE AND 
DISPOSABLE CONTACTS. DALMO HAS IT ALL!
DR. RJ. GREENBERG, OPTOMETRIST 
5824 FORBES fiVENCIE 
SQUIRREL HILL 
PHONE 521-2100

---------------------------------------------------

It's the 106-channel programmable, cable-ready, VCR-tastic ...
Rewind to summer, fast forward to fall
(TV and wall outlet not included in this offer)Pittsburgh continues to offer quality theatre
six friends upside down due to 
her strong personality and her 
attractiveness to both men and 
women. The play is set in motion 
when Marie and her female lover 
ask Maries former husband to 
offer his sperm so Maries lover
By TINA L. URSO
Tartan Diversions Editorgf
: Though this city does want 
some things in the entertainment 
world, theatre certainly isnt one
of them. _________r____________________
Ky This past summer was proof can bear a child for them, and 
jpositive that Pittsburgh contin- gets more and more tangled from 
(ues to foster quality and enter- there.
taining theatre. One of the most One of the most interesting 
exciting theatre happenings this playsfromtheShowcasethisyear 
past summer was CMUs Show- was Watbanaland by Doug
Wright. This play told the two 
somewhat separate but deeply 
intertwined stories of career 
couple Flo and Park, who havent 
been able to have children, and 
working-class, unmarried couple 
Marilyn and Dash, who are com
mitted to taking care of Marilyns 
baby boy in a bubble.
The interesting connection be
tween these two couples is 
Marilyns baby boy, Milo, who 
was the result of a one-night af
fair with her boss, Park. Further 
intriguing the story are the ob
sessions of each of the charac
ters: Park with guilt and feelings 
of inadequacy, Flo with her de
sire for a child and helping third 
world children, Dash with the
-ase of New Plays. Held every 
Rummer at CMU, th Showcase 
Chooses six new plays in progress 
by contemporary playwrights and 
performs staged readings of them 
across a period of five summer 
^weekends in Kresge Hall. Besides 
'airing new talent to the Pitts
burgh community, the Showcase 
also allows summer pre-college 
Students here at CMU the chance 
to work on the sets with profes
sionals.
4 The first play to be showcased 
this summer was Marie Hasparren by Canadian playwright 
:Jean-Marie Besset, who had a 
play performed at last summers 
Showcase which went on to be 
'professionally staged as a formal
production later in the year. This frail little Milo, and Marilyn with 
play told the story of fictional telling the truth about Milo. The 
i'rench TV personality Marie curtain falls on quite a tumultuHasparren, who turns the lives of ous and twisted ending.
Why Beavis and Butthead are 
heroes for the MTV generation
Lawrence Jeffrey, another Ca
nadian, brought us Children, 
another tangled story about love 
and deceit, this time with a mar
ried couple who considers divorce, 
causing the wifes parents to try 
and interfere, only to cause longhidden questions and problems 
to surface between themselves 
and their daughter.
Victor Bumbalos timely play 
What Are Tuesdays Like? showed 
the struggles and hopes shared 
by a group of AIDS patients who 
meet on a Tuesday in a hospital 
waitingroom. This touching story 
traced the lives of this unlikely 
bunch of friends as they find ways 
to cope with death and their ill
nesses each in their own way.
Nilo Cruzs Graffiti was another 
of the more interesting plays this 
year with its raw and honest pic
ture of desperate and wrathful 
life in the inner city, and those 
who try to hold it together and 
get somewhere in their lives.
The last play to be performed 
this year was The Boundary, by 
this years playwright-in-residence Tammy Ryan, which told 
the story of a 1980s blue-collar 
family in Queens New York deal
ing with mass lay-offs and the 
tension of the Persian Gulf War.
In the larger Pittsburgh area, 
the main theatre happening was
the Three Rivers Shakespeare 
Festival. Running most of the 
summer, the Festival staged sev
eral Shakespeare performances 
at various theatres throughout 
the Pittsburgh area. Much Ado 
About Nothing and A Midsum
mer Nights Dream were featured 
this summer, but perhaps the 
most memorable of performances 
was an innovative staging of 
Macbeth at the City Theatre in 
the South Side. The play was 
performed by visiting performers 
The Independent Eye, a threemember troupe from Philadel
phia, who have been performing 
their version of Macbeth on and 
off since 1974. As if the subject 
matter werent reason enough, 
this particular performance of 
Macbeth gave all the more reason 
not to bring the kiddies along to 
this one. The play was performed 
on a single, basic stage set with 
actors, masks and puppets. This 
innovative and macabre twist 
brought a welcomed breath of 
fresh air to the classic that was 
dead for most of us long before we 
ever left high school.
In the musical world, the main 
and long-awaited event this sum
mer has been Phantom of the 
Opera at the Benedum. This 
summers performance has held 
particular significance to the
CMU community, because Lisa 
Vroman, a 1981 graduate of the 
Music Department has been the 
alternate for the role of Chris
tine. Although it has been next to 
impossible to get tickets to the 
show, you might be lucky enough 
to already own some or to maybe 
get some second-hand.
If you dont manage to get Phan
tom tickets, all hope is not lost. In 
a few weeks, CMU will be hosting 
a performance of Andrew Lloyd 
Weber classics in Kresge The
atre, performed by none other 
than the Pittsburgh Phantom cast 
themselves.
Staged in order to benefit The 
Pittsburgh AIDS Task Force and 
Broadway Cares/Equity Fights 
AIDS, tickets will be sold to the 
general public for $20. However, 
100 student tickets are going to 
be made available for only $5, so 
heres your chance to catch some 
of what youve probably missed 
and help a good cause at the same 
time. Stay tuned for more details 
in next weeks issue.
Continuing to look forward to 
the fall, the Drama Department 
promises an exciting season of 
theatre entertainment for this 
semester.
Coming up toward the end of 
September, the Drama Depart
ment will be offering a new play
by Arthur Giron. Gifts, directed 
by drama faculty member Gre
gory Lehane, tells the untold story 
of the Wright Brothers pre-Kitty 
Hawk days, through inventive 
historical recreation.
October will bring us the pro
duction of the 1933 Federico 
Garcia Lorca play Blood Wed
ding. Directed by MladenKiselov, 
this play tells a Spanish drama of 
passion, love, and destruction, 
and promises to be interesting.
Last but not least, we will be 
left in November with a Shake
speare classic that was the first 
play ever to be performed in 
Kresge: Romeo and Juliet. It 
should be interesting to see what 
interpretation will be made of 
this Shakespeare and CMU clas
sic.
In addition to CMU, Pittsburgh 
theatre in general looks promis
ing this season, with a perfor
mance of Davis Mamets Oleanna 
at the City Theatre and continu
ing new works at the smaller lo
cal theatres; Theater Sports, a 
popular Pittsburgh improv group 
which include several people from 
CMU, is even getting their own 
theatre this year.
So dont let another season of 
good theatre pass you by and leave 
you sayingtheres never anything 
to do or see in Pittsburgh.
By JENNIFER URSO
JTartan Photo Editor
*
... Isnt it scary when you find yourself at 
a point in life where instead of making 
intelligent conversation, you start quot
ing Beavis and Butthead episodes? Or 
low about instead of laughing like your 
lormal self, you suddenly fall into the 
e, he hehehehe of the Butthead lanlage and find whatever you were laughg about 10 times funnier.
| Now to the heart of the matter. This 
^article is about why I believe Beavis and 
"jSutthead are my heroes. The reason is 
that they arent my heroes. Confused? 
Well, it goes a little like this. I dont ever 
want to be like Beavis and Butthead. 
Theyre disgusting, perverted, idiotic, 
apathetic, unoriginal, pubescent sacks 
of flesh and bone, who represent almost 
everything in life that I dont believe in 
(except for maybe the fire thing). There
fore, they are my heroes. If you dont get 
the point yet, as long as there are people 
ijike them in existence I know that Im 
aot totally wasting my life in art or even 
a work-study job. At least its better 
an working in Burgerworld, licking 
blowing up friends houses, and 
atching a TV that shows nothing but 
deos on every channel.
I like fire. But NOW, I like to bum 
ngs, hih hih hih hih hihih, just like 
leavis. So now I have a couple ques
tions: What has happened to me? and 
jWhat the hell has happened to all those 
people I used to have intelligent conver
sations with?
' Im not sure about either, but now Im 
finding being an idiot a lot more amus
ing than it used to be. Now instead of 
|eeling that I wasted two or three years 
of my life hanging out with losers, I can 
 laugh at the fact that I actually knew 
fnd tried to have conversations with 
people who were just like Beavis and 
Butthead. Its scary but true. Yes, we all 
know its true. There are people like 
B&B in the world, and at one or more 
' time in our life, weve all encountered 
them. Usually you leave them wonder
ing what just happened. Were you just 
ipsulted? Did you insult them? Did they 
understand you? Did they realize that 
you were there?
At first, I tried to make the excuse that 
the reason why I watched it for little bits 
at a time was because it was so stupid. 
Then I realized that this was the only 
reason to watch it.
Isnt everyone sort of tired of always 
trying to use their heads about every
thing? It seems like theres no space in 
the world for people to be, for once, 
completely irrational. There always has 
to be a reason for something. At least 
Beavis and Butthead can show us that if 
you just like something because it seems 
cool, then like it without having to ratio
nalize it out in your college-bred logical 
mind.
Of course, I doubt that they'd put it 
that way, but thats pretty much the gist 
of it. For instance, I like the band Minis
try, because I like Ministry. I dont know 
why and I dont really care why. Its not 
because Im trying to let out aggression. 
Its not because my inner child is crying 
and needs to hear someone else scream. 
Its because I think theyre cool and I like 
their music. How many times have you 
heard Butthead yell Gwar! or Yes! 
Butthole Surfers! or Shut up, Beavis. 
Youre missing this video and it doesnt 
even suck. They think that wind is cool, 
garbage is cool, old people are cool, fry
ing their hands is cool, and cutting down 
trees is cool. Everything is cool. Right? 
Wrong, thats where all the stuff that 
sucks comes in. You could even use all 
the stuff thats cool and all the stuff that 
sucks as some sort of warped parallel to 
life.
It could go like this: all the cool stuff 
would be like love, success, personal 
achievements, and all the stuff thatsucks 
would be like having your heart broken, 
not being able to become successful, never 
being satisfied, and death.
Apparently, Beavis and Butthead are 
therefore part of the big MTV plot to free 
your mind and think deeper about it all 
(life, that is).
Now, with this renewed idea of the 
intent of the makers of Beavis and 
Butthead, you can watch the show with 
pride that you expanding your outlook 
on the frailty of life. So, hey, you can 
learn something from Beavis and 
Butthead after all.
He he hehehe he he he, cool.
Warnings at the Hewlett Gallery
Showing currently at the Hewlett Gallery is Lisa Links 
exhibit, Warnings. Using digital photography, Link offers a 
compelllnglook Into questions of womens rights by comparing 
the threats to woman's rights today to similar threats which 
occurred In Germany right before the Nazi takeover. The 
result of over a year of research, the Images that she presents 
are entertaining, thoughtful, and scary all at the same time, 
especially in light of the recent shooting of a Wichita doctor 
by pro-life activists.
In addition to her photography, the exhibit also contains 
an amusing and thoughtful video piece done by Link herself.
Link is a graduate of Harvard University and University of 
Colorado and has toured with this show nationally. Warnings 
will be running through Thursday, September 2 and will end 
with an open reception on Thursday from 5-7 pm.Call the 
Gallery for hours.
All photos: Amy Sims/ Tartan Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

L8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon * 30 August 1993
What's happening in the arts
CMU Alum 
awarded new 
fellowship
Janet Mullet, a 1991 Drama 
Department alum, has been 
awarded the very first Bill 
Gardner Memorial Fellowship, 
and will serve it as Assistant to 
the Artistic Director at the Pitts
burgh Public Theater.
The new fellowship was estab
lished by the Public Theater in 
memory of Gardner, who served 
eight seasons as Producing Di
rector until he died of a heart 
attack last April.
CFA appoints 
new dean
Martin Prekop, dean and pro
fessor at the School of the Art 
Institute of Chicago, was chosen 
by a CMU search commitee to be 
the new dean for the College of 
Fine Arts. Prekop will officially 
take over this position on Sep
tember 1.
Prekop, who has been dean at 
the School of the Art Institute of 
Chicago since 1987, is a graduate 
of the Cleveland Institute of Art, 
the Cranbrook Academy of Art, 
and the Rhode Island School of
Design.
He has received many awards, 
including a Fulbright Fellowship 
and an NEA Artists Grant, and 
has exhibited his works widely as 
a professional artist.
Prekop replaces Lowry Bur
gess, who was dean of CFA since
1989. Burgess will be remaining 
at CMU as a professor in the Art 
Department.
Arts Center 
awarded 
$7million
The Vemer S. Purnell Founda
tion, named and created under a 
trust established by 1926 alum of 
the Art Department, has made a 
$7 million gift towards the first 
$14 million phase of the recently 
planned Center for the Arts at 
CMU.
The first phase of the new arts 
center is planned to feature tech
nologically sophisticated facilities 
to benefit drama students and 
faculty.
It will include a modern 
theatre,an area for rehearsal and 
production design, classrooms, 
and office space. The second phase 
should add a recital hall and
10,000 square feet of exhibition 
space for the visual arts. The first 
phase of the Center is explected
to be completed within the next 
two years.
CMU involved 
in making of 
new film
Recent CMU graduate Paul 
Maya,current Fifth Year Scholar 
Rhonda Struminger, and profes
sors Dave Demerest (English) and 
Eugene Levy (history) were in
volved in the making of a new 
documentary about the Home
stead Steel Strike, The River Ran 
Red, which is set to premiere at 
the Pittsburgh Public Theater on 
Saturday, September 11 at 7:30 
pm.
Struminger served as one of 
the principle researchers for this 
film, which was produced by Steffi 
Domike and Nicole Fauteux, and 
narrated by Blair Brown (Days 
and Nights of Molly Dodd). Maya 
was a production intern on the 
project, and Demerest and Levy 
served as faculty advisors.
In addition to the showing of 
The River Ran Red at the Public, 
the documentary will be aired 
the same evening on WQED at 8 
pm.
Compiled by 
TINA L. URSO
Attention all Diversions staff, new and 
old!!! There will be a meeting this Tues
day, 8/31 at 5 pm, in Skibo room 50. Call 
Tina at x8-2111 if you have any questions.
SPECIAL OFFER TO COLLEGE STUDENTS
College students are eligible for a six-play 1993-94 subscription at 
Pittsburgh Public Theater for HALF the cost of a regular subscription!
SIX PLAYS FOR AS LOW AS $50!
Dancing at Lughnasa
Sept. 30 - Nov. 7
Absurd Person Singular 
Nov. 18 - Dec. 19
The Dybbuk 
Dec. 30 - Feb. 6
Wings
Feb. 17 - March 20
Arms And The Man
March 31 - May 1
Two Trains Running 
May 12 - June 19
CALL 321-9800 
Pittsburgh Public Theater
At The Movies...
Summer always tends to be the time for lots 
of new releases, and this summer was no 
exception. Heres a sampling of some of the 
films that came out this summer. (Sorry, no 
Jurassic Park pictures, folks. Thought you 
might have seen enough of them already)
courtesy of Buena Vista Pictures 
Andrew Lowery and Traci Lind starred In My Boyfriend's Back, a 
story of a high school boy who comes back from the dead to pursue 
the girl of his dreams.
Healthy Males 
Wanted for 
Semen Donor Program 
at Magee Womens 
Hospital
kOpp tvAE OTH ET-TH 
gtpIA1p-g
kgIHpp-A-B Hp(CAHpE
kAO A-,pHpg,pE typvgp 
Ivyy W)lSlla) vO,pH 
x t1 T-y3
Hpp hh
This Wednesday, September 1!
You are invited to the Roman Catholic 
Newman Oratory Center, 4040 Bigelow 
Blvd., for a free barbecue dinner. Come 
and meet other students from CMU as 
well as Pitt. If you need help finding The 
Oratory, go to the front of Skibo between
5 and 6 p.m. and join a group that will be 
escorted to The Oratory.
Ct" O ff /Call 661-31* 
L I I to talk to U5
Fr. Bryan Summers, C.O.,
 Director
Fr. Drew Morgan, C.O.
Rev. Mr. David Abernethy, CO., 
Deacon 
Sr. Bernadette Young, C.D.P.
U,dpH .-OTH1v,ATOther programs this fall include Sunday vespers and Bible study, the Rite of 
Christian Initiation of Adults, Wednesday Undergraduate Program, and the 
Thursday Graduate-Professional Group. Call for more details.
Confessions are usually heard before or after Mass (time permitting) or by 
appointment
The Newman Oratory Center - 4040 Bigelow Blvd. - Phone: 681-3181
Pauly Shore plays a wild college student who agrees to 
pose as his friends fiancee, to the dismay of her family.
nv1tCg Fvgg 
wIdpECyp
Sundays: (in the old wing behind Posner Hall)
AM in GSIA Cooper Auditorium10:30 
8:00
Student Choir &
  *.^ Sunday Night! ^
PM in GSIA Cooper Auditorium
Weekdays Mon-Fri:
PM in Skibo Room 39 (chapel)12:30
courtesy of Touchstone Pictures 
Angela Bassett starred as Tina Turner in the 
summer autobiographical movie What's Love Got 
to Do With It.
courtesy of New Line Cinema 
YesI Finally! Jason Is back again! And 
you thought he was dead 5 movies ago!
courtesy of Paramount Pictures 
Searching for Bobby Fischer tells the story of a child 
prodigy chess player who is overwhelmed by the 
grown-up pressures of professional chess playing

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  30 August 1993L9
CINEMA SCOPE
Thursday, September 2
Passion Fish
A freak accident in New York City leaves the 
career of a soap opera star, played by Mary 
McDonnell, in distress. Her paralyzed condition 
forces her to return with her nurse to her home
town in Louisiana. She then attempts to cope 
with the physical limitations that have turned 
her life around.
The multi-talented John Sayles directs, writes, 
and acts in this film.
Eight Men Out (1988), City of Hope (1991), 
and Straight Talk (1992) are other notable flicks 
Sayles has actively been involved in.
Passion Fish is tragedy and realism all 
wrapped into one. If youre getting sick of the 
typical Hollywood films that have been coming 
out recently, this is one you should see.
At 6, 8:30, and 11 pm.
Friday, September 3
Point of No Return
Single White Females Bridget Fonda stars in 
the American remake of the French film, La 
Femme Nikita. Fonda starts the movie as a 
street punk charged with the murder of a police 
officer. She is sentenced to death for her crime, 
and her character, Maggie, thinks she is going to 
die. However, her sentence is changed in secret, 
and she is forced to be a faceless government 
assassin.
Action packed with shooting scenes, filled 
with suspense, and even a hint of romance.... 
What more could you ask for in a movie?
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, September 4
Star Trek II: The Wrath 
of Khan
Captain Kirk and the crew of the Enterprise 
do battle once again against the evil forces of the 
1967 Space Seed episode. Kirstie Alley stars in 
this sequel along with regulars William Shatner, 
Leonard Nimoy, and George Takei. Although 
the film is at a times bit corny, it does have its 
moments of adventure, warmth, and humor.
For all you Trekkies out there, this is a movie 
you wont want to miss.
Sunday, September 5
The Brain Eaters
Starring Bruno Ve Sota, Joanna Lee, Jody 
Fair, Edwin Nelson, and Alan Frost, this 1958 
movie attempts to be a horror film but ends up 
being more humorous like Kevin Bacons 1990 
flick, Tremors. Loosely based on the book The 
Puppet Masters by Robert Heinlein, spongybrained creatures emerge from the earths inner 
core, attacking peoples brains and transform
ing them into zombies.
For the hard core horror buffs out there, you 
may want to see this movie and think of it as a 
comedy. However, for the weaker-hearted, The 
Brain Eaters offers a handful of scenes that will 
make your heart flutter for a second or two.
Attention all Leonard Nimoy fans! Look for 
an early cameo of this Star Trek great in a role 
other than the infamous Mr. Spock.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
By TARAZANE
Beehive Forbes Ave. 
Uke Water 
for Chocolate
5xNPe t1 EvAy3'
F3g,AIvy v-E tvggAT-v,p 
FpGAIv- OAy1 vLTC, v 1v- zdT 
Ag OTHLAEEp- ,T 1vHH3 ,dp 
zT1v- dp yTDpg6 Jp 1vHHApg 
dpHgAg,pHgTdp Iv- Lp IyTgp ,T 
dpHZ v-E gdp ITT;g ,dp1 1vBAY
Ivy 1pvyg6
Dead Alive
5N)x t1 EvAy3'
Ethan Frome
5aN)x t1 EvAy3Z wv,CHEv3 
v-E wC-Ev3 P t1'
Ay1 vEvt,v,AT- TO ,dp 
ptT-31TCg fEA,d !dvH,T-TDpy vLTC, v 9pz f-Byv-E 
1v- zdT ,HApg ,T OA-E v zv3 
TC, TO dAg EpgtpHv,p yAOp L3 
OvyyA-B A- yTDp zA,d dAg A-DvyAE 
zAOp7g -CHgp6
Filmmakers at the Fulton 101 Sixth St., Downtown 
Wide Sargasso Sea
uAHpI,pE v-E ITSzHA,,p- L3 
iCg,HvyAv- bTd- uCABv- 5Flirt
ing'Z ,dAg OAy1 Ag v- vEvt,v,ATTO ,dp bpv- qd3g -TDpy vLTC, 
VvEpE Bp-,H3 v-E C-dvtt3 -vY
,ADpg A- ls)) bv1vAIv6 w,vHg 
>vHA-v oT1LvHE v-E 9v,dv-Apy 
mvH;pH6
Manor 
Murray iDp6
The Fugitive
5lNPeZ )N)xZ aNleZ N)x 
t1'
iI,AT-StvI;pE Idvgp OAy1 A,dp gtAHA, TO ,dp THABA-vy :K 
gpHApg6
w,vHg JvHHAgT- THE vg ,dp 
zHT-By3 vIICgpE uH6 qAIdvHE 
>A1Lyp6
Man Without a Face
5lN)eZ xNleZ aNPeZ N)e 
t1'
Fpy cALgT- 1v;pg dAg EAY
HpI,THAvy EpLC, zA,d ,dAg OAy1Z 
gp, A- v FvA-p ITvg,vy ,Tz- AlWs6
l2S3pvHSTyE ndCI; 9THg,vE, 
5tyv3pE L3 9AI; w,vdy' LpY
OHAp-Eg v 13g,pHATCg TyEpH 1vzA,d v gIvHHpE OvIp A- THEpH ,T 
pgIvtp dAg gpyOSvLgTHLpE tvHY
p-,g v-E BvA- p-,Hv-Ip ,T v 
1AyA,vH3 gIdTTy6
Son of the Pink Panther
5lN2eZ PZ xN2e aNlxZ 
NPe t1'
qTLpH,T hpB-A-A g,vHg vg .-Y
gtpI,TH nyTCgpvC A- ,dAg OCIT1pE3 OAy16
Rising Sun
5xZ aN2eZ N)x t1'
wpv- nT--pH3 g,vHg A- ,dAg 
OAy1 vEvt,v,AT- TO ,dp FAIdvpy 
nHABd,T- (Jurassic Park) 
Lpg,gpyypH vLTC, OTHpAB- A-Y
,HABCp v-E LvI;ETTH LCgA-pgg 
EpvyA-Bg Lp,zpp- i1pHAIv-g 
v-E bvtv-pgp6
Heart and Souls
52 t1'
qTLpH, uTz-p3Z bH6 tyv3g v 
1pA- zdT vyyTzg dAg LTE3 ,T 
Lp CgpE L3 OTCH EpvE tpTtyp 
zdT zv-, ,T Hp,CH- ,T pvH,d6
The Pittsburgh Playhouse 
222 Craft Ave.
Orlando
5aNPe t1'
.-,pHpg,A-B v-E zdA1gAIvy 
OAy1 OHT1 hHA,Agd EAHpI,TH wvyy3 
mT,,pHZ g,vHHA-B :AyEp wzp-,T-6 
hvgpE T- ,dp l2 KAHBA-Av 
!TTyO-TDpy vLTC,v 1v- zdT 
-T, T-y3 yADpg OTH )ee 3pvHg 
LC, vygT zv;pg Ct T-p 1TH-Y
A-B ,T OA-E dA1gpyO -ppEA-B ,T 
IT1p ,T ,pH1g zA,d dAg zT1Y
v-dTTE6
Much Ado 
About Nothing
5a v-E  t1'
>p--p,d hHv-vBd EAHpI,g ,dAg 
LHABd, v-E p-pHBp,AI OAy1 DpHY
gAT- TO ,dp IyvggAI wdv;pgtpvHp 
tyv36 nT-,vA-g v g,vHSg,CEEpE 
Ivg,Z zA,d UgIvH vzvHESzA-S 
-pH f11v :dT1gT-Z FAIdvpy 
>pv,T-Z up-$py !vgdA-B,T-Z 
>pv-C qpvDpgZ v-E hHv-vBd 6
Squirrel Hill 
Cinema World Forward Ave.
Needful Things
5lZ P0 lxZ xNPeZ aN)xZle 
t1'
Ay1 vEvt,v,AT- TO w,ptdp>A-B7g Lpg,SgpyyA-B LTT; vLTC, 
,dp EpDAy7gDAgA,,Tvg1vyy 9pz 
f-Byv-E ,Tz-6 w,vHg fE JvHHAg 
v-E FvG KT- w3ETz6
Father Hood
5lZ 2N)xZ )NPeZ WNlxZ sZ 
N)x t1'
mv,HAI;wzv3$p tyv3g vg1vyyS 
,A1p ,dApO T- ,dp HC- zdT Ag 
DAgA,pE L3 dAg yT-BSvLv-ET-pE 
,pp-vBp EvCBd,pH A- ,dAg vIS 
,AT-SvEDp-,CHp OAy16
Searching for Bobby Fischer
5lNPeZ PN)eZ xNxeZ aNxxZ 
Nxx t1'
Ay1 vEvt,v,AT- TO ,dp HpE 
!vA,$;A- -TDpyZ LvgpE T- ,dp 
,HCp g,TH3 TO bTgdZ v IdpggS 
Bp-ACg6 ndpgg yTDpHg vHp dTtY
A-B bTgd zAyy Lp ,dp -pG, IdAyE 
tHTEAB3 ,T OTyyTz A- hTLL3 
AgIdpH7g OTT,g,ptgZ LC, dp VCg, 
zv-,g ,T yADp yA;p v -TH1vy ;AE6
By TINA K URSO
courtesy of Hollywood Pictures 
mv,HAI; wzv3$p tyv3g v OCBA,ADp ,H3A-B ,T 1v;p Ct zA,d dAg ;AEg 
A- Father Hood, -Tz tyv3A-B v, w(CAHHpy JAyy nA-p1v !THyE6
Thenew
3-D graphing
grade-making
easy-leaming
fast-answering
budget-pleasing
headache-busting
HP48G
Check it out
The new HP 48G graphic calcula
tor gives you a whole lot more for 
a whole lot less than you think.
Get more
Push a button, choose from the 
pull-down menu, and fill in the 
blanks. Entering data is that easy. 
View 3-D graphs.
Access over 300 built-in equations.
 Perform algebra and calculus 
operations on equations before 
entering values.
 Enter and see equations like-they 
appeal' on paper.
 Work with different units of 
measure. The HP 48G will convert 
them for you. For example, enter 
inches, centimeters, yards, and 
feet, together in one equation  
itll convert them.
Get more ... for less
 Compare prices  the HP 48G fits 
your budget.
Special introductory offer*
When you buy an HP 48G or 
HP 48GX, you can get free 
software (plus games!) and a free 
cable for connecting to your 
desktop PC. Write programs for 
the HP 48 using your PC keyboard, 
or store HP 48 files and programs 
on your desktop PC.
Pick up a coupon at your college 
bookstore.
m
HEWLETT 
PACKARD
* Offer good while supplies last on purchases 
made from August 1,1903 through 
October 31, 1993. See coupon for terms 
and conditions.
Hewlett-Packard Company. PG 12306B

---------------------------------------------------

i- rinR|r\?
\VesBlL/JLi.ITDJ
) 1989 Paramount Pictures 
The ever logical Spock embarks upon yet another fantastic outer space adventure 
in Star Trek II, showing Saturday In DH 2210.
Admission to all DH 2210 films is $1 
for students with ID; $2 otherwise. 
Admission to all Pittsburgh Play
house films, located at 222 Craft Av
enue, is $4.
Passion Fish will be shown in DH 
2210 on Thursday at 6, 8:30, and 11 
pm.
Point of No Return plays in DH 
2210 this Friday at 6, 8, 10 pm, and 
midnight.
Star Trek II shows in DH 2210 
Saturday at 6, 8, 10 pm, and mid
night.
The Brain Eaters will play Sunday 
in DH 2210 at 6, 8, 10 pm, and 
midnight.
Hunt and E&S Library special 
hours for the fall semester are 
as follows: today through Thurs
day: 8 am-midnight; Friday: 8 am-6 
pm; Saturday: 10 am-5 pm; Sunday: 
noon-9 pm; closed on Labor Day. 
Regular hours for the fall semester 
are as follows: Monday through 
Thursday: 8 am-midnight; Friday: 8 
am-9 pm; Saturday: 10 am-9 pm; 
and Sunday: noon to midnight.
CMU Shorin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Mondays at 8:30 pm and Saturdays at 
4 pm in Activity room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Beginners are welcome.
The Career Center Library is 
open Mondays and Thursdays from 5- 
7 pm, in addition to regular weekday 
office hours.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Re
search Group holds workshop meet
ings every Monday at 7 pm at the 
Friends Meeting House. For more in
formation about the group, call Bill 
King at 276-1768.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad 
Club holds its meetings Tuesdays at 6 
pm in the Tartan loft. For more infor
mation, email db74 or jt3y.
The Christian Science Organiza
tion at CMU meets every Tuesday at 8 
pm in Skibo 13. If you are a Christian 
Scientist, or are interested in learning 
more about Christian Science, please 
stop by and find out what its all about.
Are you concerned about the 
issues of eating disorders, body 
weight, and self esteem? If so,
you are welcome to attend a weekly 
support group to discuss these issues 
and others. Meetings will be held 
Tuesdays in Health Services from 
7:30-8:30 pm.
The Fencing Club holds practices 
in the Fencing Room in the Gymna
sium on Tuesday evenings at 6:30 pm 
and Sunday afternoons at 12:30 pm. 
All levels of skill are welcome.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on 
Tuesdays from 8:30-10:30 pm and 
Thursdays from 8-10 pm in Activity 
room B, and Sundays from 24 pm in 
Activity room A. For more informa
tion email cd2b or call x8-4179.
The Self Knowledge Symposium,
a non-denominational student study 
group for those seeking insights into 
who they are, a change of being, and a 
livable philosophy, holds regular 
meetings on Tuesdays at 7 pm in the 
Cathedral of Learning, room 302. For 
more information, call 343-1907.
Student Senate meetings are every 
Tuesday in. the Wherrett Room at 7 
pm. All members of the campus com
munity are welcome to attend and speak 
during audience participation.
The Womens Center Collective
holds meetings every Tuesday at 6 pm 
in the CMU Womens Center. If your 
group is interested in meeting in the 
center, call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Every first 
and third Wednesday the Toastmas
ters Club sponsors a speech commu
nication workshop at the Carnegie 
Library in Oakland from 7-8:30 pm. 
For information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class
is held on Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in 
the Israel room (337) at the Cathe
dral of Learning, free of charge. Call 
Rabbi Samuel Weinstein at 683- 
7770 for more information.
The Poetry and Fiction Work
shop, sponsored by the University of 
Pittsburgh, meets every Wednesday 
at 7 pm in the first floor conference 
room of the Oakland Carnegie Library. 
The group is an open forum for writers
and writers-to-be. For more informa
tion, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council 
(SDC) holds meetings every Wed
nesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett Room. 
For more information, call the office at 
X8-2114.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 
pm in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to 
have fun while getting involved in 
business activities at CMU. All ma
jors are welcome. Questions? Call 
Jeff at x2-4693.
Progressives Happy Hour is ev
ery other Thursday at 5:30 at the 
Womens Center. BYOMug. Interested 
in co-sponsoring? Call x8-3595 for more 
information.
The CMU Lesbian/Bisexual 
Womens Discussion Group meets 
the first Thursday of every month at 
8 pm in the CMU Womens Center. 
Questioning? Positively sure? Come 
to the discussion group for friendly 
talk and fun.
A Rational Recovery support group 
for those with alcohol or drug prob
lems meets every Friday at 7:30 pm. 
Meetings are free and held in Room 
205 of the Wightman Community Cen
ter Building in Squirrel Hill. For 
information on this and other RR 
meetings in the Pittsburgh area, 
phone 261-5363.
Student Environmental Action 
Coalition meets every Sunday at 
4:30 pm in Grey Matter. SEACs goal is 
to motivate students to become actively 
involved in working towards protect
ing our environment. For more infor
mation on upcoming projects and events 
and how you can get involved, call Josh 
Knauer at X2-4949.
official.career-center is a bboard 
in its third year of operation, on 
which you can access occupational 
outlook data, workshop information, 
new Career Library book notices, 
campus interview postings, and job 
leads for all kinds of professional and 
summer employment. All majors and 
class levels are encouraged to sub
scribe.
The Volunteer Babysitting Net
work is looking for student parents 
in financial need of free childcare, and 
students, staff, and faculty interested 
in babysitting. For more information 
on how to get involved, call or write 
David Pegher at x2-4840, Box 1107, or 
email dp31.
Theater
Breaking Legs, a comedy by Tom 
Dulack, will be performed this 
Wednesday night through Friday night 
at the Sherwood Theatre at 8 pm, with 
a special matinee performance held 
on Monday, September 6 at 2 pm.
ReligionCulture
Ecumenical Holy Communion,
sponsored by the Episcopal, Lutheran, 
and United Campus Ministries, is held 
Wednesdays at 5 pm in the Heinz 
Chapel.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House invites all students to 
explore the meaning of stress from a 
Biblical standpoint Thursdays from 7 
8 pm. For more information or direc
tions, call x8-4391.
Shabbat Candlelit Dinner is held 
at the Chabad House on Friday eve
nings at sundown and on Saturdays at 
2 pm. Contact Sara Weinstein at 683- 
7770 for more information.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every 
Friday with a happy half hour (hors 
doeuvres) at 5:30 pm, services at 6 
pm, and dinner following. RSVP by 
calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through 
Friday. Weekend masses are cel
ebrated at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 
am Sunday in the GSIA main audito
rium. For more information, call the 
Oratory at 681-3181.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join 
other young adults in contemporary, 
casual, and uplifting services on Sun
days at 11 am in the Central Chris
tian Church located at the comer of 
Fifth and Dithridged34 N. Dithridge). 
For more information about New Hope, 
call 621-6760.
Prayer at the Close of the Day,
sponsored by the Lutheran Campus 
Ministry, is held Sundays at 9:30 pm 
in the Heinz Chapel. For more infor
mation, call 682-6886.
The Church of the Ascension 
(Episcopal) welcomes all students 
to join those who worship, serve, and 
fellowship there. They hold services 
on Sundays with a Eucharist at 8:30 
am, a college class at 9:30 am, and 
morning worship at 11:30 am in the 
chapel located on the corner of 
Ellsworth and Neville in Oakland. A 
Eucharist is also held on Wednesdays 
at 7 am. For more information, con
tact campus minister Brian VanderWel 
at 621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
holds worship service Sundays at 11 
am, college class at 9:45 am. Shadyside 
College Fellowship meets Fridays at 
6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette 
Ediger at 682-4300 for more informa
tion.
Style and Substance Art Gallery 
will hold a new artists screeningon
Sunday from 24 pm. Artists wishing 
to be represented by Style and Sub- ' 
stance should bring three or four works 
to the Community Room on the lower 
level of Greengate Mall.
Out of the Ordinary: Good De
sign for $20 or Less will open 
Wednesday, September 8, at the 
Hewlett Gallery in CFA. An opening 
reception will be held Thursday, Sep
tember 9, from 5-8 pm.
Stroll through the Pittsburgh ' 
Public Theater on Friday, Sep- : 
tember 10 for A Taste of Ire- ' 
land, beginning at 7 pm. For more 
information on the nights events, call 
323-8200 between 9 am and 5 pm Monday through Friday.
I
Sports
Any questions regarding the time, lo
cation, or teams involved in a sports 
event should be directed toward Bruce i 
Gerson, sports information director, at ~\ 
X8-3087.
The football team plays Franklin 
and Marshall College at 1:30 pm this 
Saturday in Gesling Stadium.
The womens cross country team
competes Saturday against California 
University of PA, Clarion Univer
sity, and Pitt-Johnstown. The meet 
starts at 11:45 am.
The mens cross country team
competes Saturday against California 
University of PA, Clarion Univer
sity, and Pitt-Johnstown. The meet 
starts at 11 am.
The womens tennis team competes 
Saturday with Waynesburg College at 
Frostburg State University.
The womens tennis team competes 
Sunday against Seton Hill College at 
Seton Hill.
Entry rosters for intramural 
touch football must be turned in to 
the IM office by Thursday. A minium 
of eight players are required for a team, 
15 players maximum. Call Earl Birdy 
at x8-2214 with questions.
Entry rosters for intramural 
tennis must be turned in to the IM 
office by Thursday, September 9. Call 
Earl Birdy at x8-2214 for more 
information on team requirements.
Italian folk group Ordo Equitum 
Solis, local band Thickhead Grin, 
and Detroits rhythmic group Glod
will combine Saturday for a night of 
dark gothic music beginning at 7 pm in 
the William Pitt Student Union As
sembly room on Pitt campus.
Compline Prayer at the End of
the Day is sung every Sunday night 
at 9:30 pm at the Heinz Chapel. For 
more information about Compline 
Prayer or the Heinz Chapel, call 682- 
6886 Monday through Friday.
Ursula von Rydingsvard, vis
iting New York artist, will speak 
tomorrow at 5 pm in DH 2315. As 
part of the Art Departments Fall 
1993 Lecture Series, this lecture is 
free and open to the public.
POPUU
Mudge 3C is the place to be!
Hey Kappa Sig, get your ass off the 
fence!
Dinner was awesome Sweetie. Thanks 
for the date.
I want a standing ovation!
Hey Kappa, DG, Tri-Delts, andTheta 
 Good luck with rush!
Easter Bunny, where are you?
Anybody need detergent?
Nobody loves me, everybody hates 
me, goin to the garden to eat worms
Life sucks.
Bearded men Mss funny.
About time to shave again, wouldn't 
you say so, Todd?
My name is Ramo, I drink Drano, 
everybody does what I say ...
MXXXXXXXJOOOOSE!
Chug? Whats that? 
 generic freshman BEFORE rush.
Classes? Whats that?
 generic freshman AFTER rush 
with a bit of a hangover.
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions to: 
The Tartan, Attn. Calendar, Box 17, Carn
egie Mellon U-, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or 
send campus mail to Calendar Editor, The 
Tartan, Skibo Info Desk. You can also drop 
submissions via AppleShare in the drop 
folders in the Tartans server, Skibo zone. 
Please limit submissions to fifty words or 
less. Deadline is 8 pm the Wednesday be
fore the next issue. Placement is not guar
anteed. Original Vox Populi and Calendar 
entries cannot be returned.
